PT	AU	BA	CA	GP	RI	OI	BE	Z2	TI	X1	Y1	Z1	FT	PN	AE	Z3	SO	S1	SE	BS	VL	IS	SI	MA	BP	EP	AR	DI	D2	SU	PD	PY	AB	X4	C1	Y4	Z4	AK	CT	CY	SP	CL	TC	Z8	ZB	ZS	Z9	SN	BN	WC	UT	NR	DT	PM
J	Theodorakis, Nicholas D.								What is sport service quality and how should it be specified?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	6			84	110		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2026-0304			DEC 14 2026	2026	Purpose-Despite its extensive use, the conceptual foundations and operationalization of service quality in sport remain insufficiently clarified. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to delineate the specific evaluative judgments that constitute sport service quality and clarify the construct boundaries separating service quality from related evaluative constructs. Design/methodology/approach-A critical review of 85 empirical studies in sport service quality research examined how the construct has been conceptualized, operationalized, and modeled in prior sport management and marketing literature. Studies were coded based on their definitions, measurement approaches, and model specifications. Findings-The review reveals that the label "service quality" has been used to refer to three distinct evaluative objects: attribute-level performance perceptions, transaction-specific overall quality judgments, and cumulative global attitudes, without consistently distinguishing among them. Controllable service system elements are also frequently mixed with core sport product evaluations, blurring construct boundaries. Advancing sport service quality theory therefore requires sharper theoretical specification of the judgment object, its temporal scope, and the boundaries of the evaluative construct. Originality/value-This study contributes to sport management and marketing literature by proposing a conceptual framework that distinguishes among attribute-level evaluations, transaction-specific overall service quality judgments, and cumulative global attitudes. By grounding service quality within the controllable service delivery system, the proposed framework establishes a clearer basis for the conceptualization and operationalization of service quality in sport.		[Theodorakis, Nicholas D.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Theodorakis, Nicholas D.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Thessaloniki, Greece								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001852564200001	132	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Jeeyoon; Kim, Yukyoum								How sport consumers cope with a loss: a multi-group analysis by psychological importance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	6			64	83		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2025-0531			DEC 14 2026	2026	Purpose This study examines sport consumer coping (after a loss) as a person-environment transaction based on the transactional theory of stress and coping. With psychological importance (of a win) set as a boundary condition, psychological needs (i.e. arousal, achievement, social) unfulfilled after a loss are investigated as predictors of coping strategy selection and key coping strategies' (i.e. positive thinking, emotional venting, emotional support, avoidance) effects on negative affect are assessed to understand coping effectiveness. Design/methodology/approach Targeting supporters of the losing team in Super Bowl LIII, data were collected from a three-wave survey (i.e. before, immediately after, 1-day after a loss) and analyzed with multi-group SEM (high vs. low psychological importance groups) to explore/compare the relations among need unfulfillment, coping strategies and negative affect. Findings Meaningful associations among need unfulfillment, coping strategies and negative affect are reported, with patterns of associations being distinctive based on levels of psychological importance (e.g. more active coping in the high group, distinction more notable for arousal and social unfulfillments). Emotional venting (in the high group) and emotional support (in the low group) are identified as effective, whereas avoidance is counter-productive (in both groups). Originality/value Examining coping as an ongoing, complex and conditional process, this study paints a more holistic picture of sport consumer coping. Novel insights are offered on coping strategy selection/effectiveness and the moderation of psychological importance. Findings inform strategies to facilitate sport consumer coping that can help develop long-term consumer relations based on more positive (or less negative) experiences.		[Kim, Jeeyoon] Syracuse Univ, Dept Sport Management, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA; [Kim, Yukyoum] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Jeeyoon] Syracuse Univ, Dept Sport Management, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001850037200001	65	Article; Article		
J	Stegmann, Pascal; Strobel, Tim; O'Reilly, Norm								Shaping fan engagement behaviour through digital platform features: the role of social capital - an experimental study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	6			1	15		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0164			DEC 14 2026	2026	PurposeThis study aims to investigate how digital platform features influence fan engagement behaviour (FEB; i.e. augmenting, co-developing, influencing and mobilising) in sport clubs by facilitating access to bridging and bonding social capital.Design/methodology/approachUsing a 2 (bridging social capital: low vs high) x 2 (bonding social capital: low vs high) factorial between-subjects experimental design, this scenario-based online experiment manipulated platform features of a fictitious sport club engagement platform. 226 sport fans were randomly assigned to experimental conditions. MANCOVA analysis assessed the effects, controlling for team identification, engagement disposition, behavioural loyalty and trust in technology.FindingsResults indicated differential influences of social capital types: Platform features enabling bridging social capital positively influenced augmenting, co-developing and influencing FEB, while bonding social capital influenced mobilising FEB. Interaction analyses revealed a negative interaction for mobilising FEB. Engagement disposition significantly predicted multiple FEB dimensions.Originality/valueThis study is the first to experimentally test how digital platform features influence FEB by facilitating distinct forms of social capital in a sport management context. It extends existing research by differentiating FEB into distinct dimensions (augmenting, co-developing, influencing and mobilising), demonstrating the selective activation of each by platform features. Practically, the findings offer actionable insights for sport managers on designing digital platforms to foster specific FEB.		[Stegmann, Pascal] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland; [Strobel, Tim] Univ Bayreuth, Chair Mkt & Sport Management, Bayreuth, Germany; [O'Reilly, Norm] Univ New England, Coll Business, Ctr Sport & Business Innovat, Biddeford, ME USA; [Stegmann, Pascal] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001666133700001	58	Article; Article		
J	Tugran, Melike; Sekir, Ufuk; Hasanoglu, Muge; Gur, Hakan; Akova, Bedrettin								The Acute Effects of Blood Flow Restriction on Ankle Muscle Reaction Time and Proprioception in Healthy Individuals								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.691				2026	Blood flow restriction (BFR) induces hypoxic and metabolic stress, which may alter afferent feedback and neuromuscular control. However, its acute effects on ankle sensorimotor function remain unclear. The aim of the study was to investigate the acute effects of lower-limb BFR on multidimensional ankle sensorimotor function in healthy adults. Twenty-four participants (12 females, 12 males) completed two conditions in randomized order and a crossover design: BFR at 60% arterial occlusion pressure (AOP) and a control condition (20 mmHg). All measurements were performed during occlusion. Outcomes included joint position sense (active and passive), kinesthesia, static and dynamic balance, lower-limb muscle activation (surface electromyography), and muscle reaction time during sudden ankle inversion. BFR impaired active joint position sense at 20 degrees of inversion (p = 0.011), with no changes at other angles or in kinesthesia. Static balance deteriorated, with increases in sway area (p = 0.017), sway distance (p = 0.029), and sway velocity (p < 0.001), particularly under eyes-closed single-leg stance. Posterolateral reach distance decreased (p = 0.023), accompanied by reduced lower-limb muscle activation. Tibialis anterior muscle reaction time during 30 degrees of inversion in the ankle neutral position was shortened (p < 0.001), whereas peroneus longus muscle responses were unchanged. Acute lower-limb BFR impairs ankle sensorimotor control by reducing proprioceptive accuracy, balance performance, and muscle activation, while shortening reaction time. These findings suggest caution when applying BFR during tasks that require high postural demands or end-range control. Registration number and date: NCT07307339, 12/26/2025		[Tugran, Melike] Kocaeli Dar Training & Res Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Kocaeli, Turkiye; [Sekir, Ufuk; Hasanoglu, Muge; Gur, Hakan; Akova, Bedrettin] Uludag Univ, Med Fac, Dept Sports Med, Bursa, Turkiye; [Tugran, Melike] Kocaeli Dar Training & Res Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Kocaeli, Turkiye								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001842270800001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Terbalyan, Artur; Gepfert, Mariola; Szymczyk, Patryk; Kozlenia, Dawid; Lum, Danny; Jarosz, Jakub								Acute Performance, Mechanical and Thermal Effects of Isometric Conditioning Versus Standardized Volleyball Pre-Training Activation in Highly Trained Male Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.728				2026	This study compared acute performance, neuromuscular, and thermal responses to a maximal isometric conditioning activity (ICA) versus a standardized volleyball pre-training activation (VPA) in highly trained male volleyball players, and to explore putative mechanisms underpinning post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) considering training load. In a randomized crossover, 14 men (27 +/- 3 y) completed two sessions: VPA (mobility/plyometric drills; 9 min), and ICA comprising 3 & times;5 & times;3-s maximal isometric back-squat contractions (knee angle 120 degrees; 3min inter-set rest). Countermovement jump (CMJ) height (primary), relative peak power (PP), RSImod, and contraction time (CT) were recorded pre and 3, 6, 9, and 12 min post. Rectus femoris muscle viscoelastic properties and skin surface temperature (SST) were assessed at matched time points. Analyses used repeated-measures ANOVA, responder analysis, correlations, and regression. Period & times;Sequence interactions favored ICA for CMJ and PP when delivered in Period 2 (lower training volume): triangle CMJ was higher under ICA versus VPA (p = 0.005, d = 1.20); PP likewise greater (p = 0.026, eta p2 = 0.35). ICA yielded more beneficial responders than VPA (9/14 vs 1/14; McNemar exact p = 0.021). In Period 2, reductions in rectus femoris muscle stiffness independently predicted CMJ gains (beta_std =-0.495, p = 0.005), whereas SST changes did not (p = 0.974). RSImod and CT showed no differences. A brief, high-effort isometric squat protocol was associated with superior acute improvements in jump performance compared with a standard volleyball warm-up, but this advantage emerged specifically when the preceding training volume was reduced (Period 2), suggesting that residual fatigue from training may reduce the effects of PAPE. Gains align with neuro-mechanical rather than thermal mechanisms, supporting ICA as a practical, equipment-minimal priming strategy for elite volleyball.		[Terbalyan, Artur; Gepfert, Mariola; Szymczyk, Patryk; Jarosz, Jakub] Acad Phys Educ, Katowice, Poland; [Kozlenia, Dawid] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Wroclaw, Poland; [Lum, Danny] High Performance Sport Inst, Singapore, Singapore; [Lum, Danny] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Terbalyan, Artur] Acad Phys Educ, Katowice, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001841568300001	68	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Chen, Zhihao; Chi, Meilan; Liu, Ruizhi; Ma, Lianzhen; Shen, Yupeng								Effects of Hydrogen-Rich Water Supplementation on Exercise Performance, Autonomic Nervous System Recovery, and Blood Lactate Concentration During Repeated Sprint Exercise in Male University Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.744				2026	Hydrogen-rich water (HRW) supplementation has been proposed to exert anti-fatigue effects during exercise; however, its impact on exercise performance and autonomic nervous system (ANS) function during repeated sprinting remains unclear. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of acute pre-exercise HRW ingestion on repeated sprint performance, ANS regulation, and blood lactate concentration. This randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study included 13 male university athletes (23.9 +/- 2.0 years). Each participant completed two sessions of 7 & times;6-second all-out cycling sprints interspersed with 30-second recovery intervals, with a one-week washout period between sessions. Critical flicker fusion frequency, heart rate, heart rate variability (HRV), and blood lactate were assessed at baseline, during exercise, and at 0-5 min and 10 min post-exercise. Compared to the placebo trial, the HRW trial demonstrated significantly higher average power output (d = 0.61) and significantly lower total work decrement and fatigue index (d = 0.62; d = 0.64). Post-exercise HRV recovery was significantly accelerated in the HRW trial, including RMSSD (d = 0.62), LF/HF ratio (d = 0.82), SampEn (d = 0.79), and DFA alpha 1 (d = 0.79). Blood lactate at 3 min post-exercise was approximately 1 mmol/L lower in the HRW trial (d = 0.64). These findings suggest that acute HRW ingestion attenuates the decline in power output, accelerates ANS recovery, and enhances lactate clearance following repeated sprint exercise.		[Chen, Zhihao; Chi, Meilan; Liu, Ruizhi; Ma, Lianzhen; Shen, Yupeng] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou 510006, Peoples R China; [Shen, Yupeng] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou 510006, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001841577600001	38	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wang, Shuangying; Zhang, Hui								Analysis of The Differences Between Training Matches and International Competitions for Elite Chinese U15 Female Table Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.714				2026	Although differences between training and competitive contexts in table tennis are widely recognized, empirical evidence quantifying these differences remains limited. This study compared the technical-tactical characteristics of 40 training matches and 40 international competitions among Chinese National Youth Team U15 female players to provide evidence for training optimization. A mixed-method approach combining heat map visualization and Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) was used to examine contextual differences and identify key factors associated with match-winning probability. Results showed that training and international matches exhibited similar individual technical-tactical indicators but differed substantially in placement-technique combinations and the influence of stroke sequences on winning probability. Training matches emphasized control of short areas, whereas international competitions showed greater use of backhand long-area attacks to initiate offensive play. In addition, early strokes were more influential in training matches, while later strokes played a greater role in international competitions. These findings indicate that current training matches may not fully replicate international competitive demands. Training should therefore enhance rally-transition tactics, offensive initiation, and competitive simulation to improve transferability to international competition.		[Wang, Shuangying; Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sports Sci, Hangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Shuangying] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sports Sci, Hangzhou, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001840259800001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hagner-Derengowska, Magdalena; Trybulski, Robert; Kruk, Joanna; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Olchowy, Cyprian; Pilis, Karol								Contrast Heat-Cold Versus Thermoneutral Showering in Trained Combat Sport Athletes: A Randomized Field Trial of Recovery Outcomes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.675				2026	Contrast heat-cold showering is popular for recovery, but multisystem evidence and persistence after cessation remain unclear. To evaluate whether a 4-week post-training contrast heat-cold shower intervention produces an integrated recovery profile across four domains (autonomic, endocrine, perceptual, and microvascular) rather than testing a single isolated physiological pathway, across baseline (T0), post-intervention (T1), and 2-week wash-out (T2). Sixty combat-sport athletes were randomized to contrast showers (10 min alternating warm 38-40 degrees C and cold 13-15 degrees C) or an active thermoneutral-shower comparator (10 min, 32-34 degrees C) after training for 4 weeks. Primary analyses were per-protocol (>= 75% compliance; n = 57), with intention-to-treat sensitivity analyses. Outcomes were Total Quality Recovery (TQR), morning salivary cortisol (two mornings averaged), resting HRV, and post-occlusive reactive hyperemia (PORH). From T0 to T1, favorable between-group changes were observed for resting HR (Delta Delta -2.10 bpm, 95% CI -2.24 to -1.96; g -0.65; p < 0.001), lnRMSSD (Delta Delta 0.123 log units, 95% CI 0.108 to 0.137; g 0.74; p < 0.001), with similar T1 effects for RMSSD and SDNN, and TQR (Delta Delta 0.61 points, 95% CI 0.27 to 0.95; g 0.80; p < 0.001). These T1 autonomic and perceptual changes were not maintained at T2 (all T2-T0 Delta Delta p > 0.05). Cortisol and PORH-derived outcomes showed no statistically clear between-group differences at T1 or T2 (all p > 0.05). Compared with thermoneutral showering, 4 weeks of post-training contrast heat-cold showering produced short-term favorable between-group changes in autonomic regulation and perceived recovery, but not in morning cortisol or PORH-derived microvascular reactivity. These effects were not maintained after wash-out; therefore, causal attribution to the shower intervention alone and claims of persistent physiological adaptation should be made cautiously. Trial registration: ISRCTN15418049.		[Hagner-Derengowska, Magdalena] Nicolaus Copernicus Univ, Fac Earth Sci & Spatial Management, Sport Res Ctr, Torun, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Wojciech Korfanty Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Med Ctr Provita, Zory, Poland; [Kruk, Joanna] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Fac Phys Culture & Hlth, Szczecin, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Polytech Univ Coimbra, Appl Res Inst i2A, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Coimbra, Portugal; [Olchowy, Cyprian] Jan Dlugosz Univ, Dept Cardiovasc Dis, Coll Medicum, Czestochowa, Poland; [Pilis, Karol] Jan Dlugosz Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Physiotherapy, Coll Medicum, Czestochowa, Poland; [Hagner-Derengowska, Magdalena] Nicolaus Copernicus Univ, Fac Earth Sci & Spatial Management, Sport Res Ctr, Torun, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001826848100001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Skinner, Brendon; Munn, Emily E.; Roberts, Tim; Reed, Rachelle A.; Thorpe, Robin T.								The Effectiveness of Passive Half-Time Interventions on Simulated Second-Half Performance in Elite Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.617				2026	The half-time period in soccer provides a potentially important window to implement short-duration interventions aimed at maintaining second-half performance. However, passive rest has been associated with a decline in subsequent physical and technical performance. While re-warm-up strategies are well studied, little is known about the efficacy of technology-based, passive recovery modalities, device-supported interventions that require minimal active movement or physical exertion from the athlete, during half-time intervals. This study examined whether percussive therapy, electrical muscle stimulation, and pneumatic compression can mitigate second-half performance decline in male adolescent soccer players. Forty-three academy-level players (17.5 f 0.6 years) completed a simulated soccer protocol including the Loughborough Soccer Pass Test (LSPT), repeated 20-meter sprints, and completed Total Quality of Recovery (TQR) assessments before and after half-time. Participants were randomized into one of four intervention groups during the 15-minute halftime interval: Passive Rest (CON), Percussive Therapy (Thera-gun Pro; TG), EMS (PowerDot; PD), and Pneumatic Compression (RecoveryAir; COMP). Linear mixed-effects models assessed Time & times; Condition interactions for performance and recovery outcomes. Passive half-time rest led to significant deterioration in technical skill, sprint performance, and perceived recovery (p < .05) for the control group. TG and PD significantly improved technical performance (LSPT scores) compared to the control group (d = 0.65 and 0.72, respectively; p < .01). Furthermore, TG and COMP were effective at maintaining 20-meter sprint times (d = 0.58 and 0.49; p < .01), whereas the control group experienced significant slowing. Perceived recovery (TQR) scores significantly declined in the CON group from First Half to Second Half (16.5 f 2.2 to 11.1 f 2.3. However, this decline was significantly attenuated in all intervention groups: TG (17.5 f 1.9 to 14.2 f 1.9), PD (17.3 f 1.9 to 15.1 f 1.9), and COMP (17.6 f 1.9 to 15.9 f 2.0). Short-duration passive interventions during half-time can mitigate performance decline in adolescent soccer players. TG and EMS appear most effective for preserving technical skills, while COMP may support perceived recovery. These findings highlight practical strategies for optimizing in-game performance and inform evidence-based half-time protocols.		[Skinner, Brendon] Univ Northampton, Sport Rehabil & Conditioning, Northampton, England; [Munn, Emily E.; Roberts, Tim; Reed, Rachelle A.] Therabody Inc, 1640 S Sepulveda Blvd 300, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Thorpe, Robin T.] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth Solut, Integrat Human Performance Lab, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Thorpe, Robin T.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Skinner, Brendon] Univ Northampton, Sport Rehabil & Conditioning, Northampton, England								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001824975500001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhang, Di; Ma, Li; Li, Xu								Influence of Repeated-Sprint Bout Duration in Sprint Interval Training Intervention on Physical Performance Adaptations of Young Volleyball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.547				2026	The objective of this study was to examine the effects of repeated- sprint training (RST) with varying bout durations on the physical fitness adaptations of young male volleyball players. Forty athletes were randomly allocated to one of three intervention groups performing RST with varying bout durations and similar repetition volumes, all executed at maximal effort. The 3-sec group (n = 10) completed two sets of 30 bouts, the 6-sec group (n = 10) performed two sets of 15 bouts, and the 9-sec group (n = 10) carried out two sets of 10 bouts, each adhering to a 1:3 work to rest ratio. An active control group (n = 10) engaged solely in regular volleyball training without the RST intervention. Physical fitness measures-including countermovement vertical jump (CMVJ), 10- m and 20-m linear sprints, T-test change-of-direction speed (T- CODS), reactive strength index (RSI), and the Wingate anaerobic power test-were assessed pre- and post-a 6-week training intervention (i.e., 18 sessions). All RST groups showed significant post-intervention improvements in physical fitness (main effect of time, p = 0.001), with greater adaptations compared with the control group and effect sizes ranging from small to very large. The 3-sec bout group demonstrated greater gains in CMVJ, 10-m and 20-m sprint performance, RSI, and peak power output compared with the 9-sec group (all, p < 0.05). Conversely, the 9-sec group exhibited superior adaptations in T-CODS and mean power output relative to the 3-sec group (all, p < 0.05). In conclusion, the 3-sec group experienced greater enhancements in explosive and sprint performances, while the 9-sec group showed superior gains in change of direction and mean power output. These findings indicate that manipulation of sprint-bout duration in RST can be used to optimize distinct performance adaptations in young volleyball players.		[Zhang, Di] Henan Univ Technol, Coll Phys Educ, Zhengzhou, Peoples R China; [Ma, Li] Zhengzhou Univ Ind Technol, Coll Phys Educ, Zhengzhou 450001, Peoples R China; [Li, Xu] Xiamen Univ, Dept Phys, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Ma, Li] Zhengzhou Univ Ind Technol, Coll Phys Educ, Zhengzhou 450001, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001812522300001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kamada, Kotaro; Yamashita, Daichi; Nishiumi, Daichi; Hirose, Norikazu								Reliability of Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull in Youth Male Basketball Players Across Age Categories								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2026.556				2026	The aim of this study was to examine the reliability of peak force (PF) and rate of force development (RFD) from the Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) in 59 male basketball players from a Japanese professional club's youth academy classified into three age categories (U12: n = 18, U15: n = 27, and U18: n = 14). Each athlete completed three IMTP sessions, from which PF and mean RFD were calculated over time intervals of 0-50, 0-100, 0-150, 0-200, and 0-250 ms. Within-session and between-day reliabilities were evaluated using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC), coefficient of variation (CV), and standard error of measurement (SEM). PF demonstrated consistently high reliability across all age categories for both within-session and between-day analyses (ICC 0.77-0.98, CV 3.4-8.2%), with small SEM values (7.65-91.86 N, 0.60-4.13%) indicating limited measurement error. In contrast, RFD displayed poor reliability in shorter time windows (0-50 and 0-100 ms; ICC < 0.50), particularly in categories U12 and U15. Although longer time windows (0-150 and 0-250 ms) achieved higher reliability (ICC > 0.75) and lower SEM values than those previously reported, the CV values remained high (10.7-34.8%). Such a large variability may obscure true performance changes. Consequently, the PF is recommended as a robust metric for young athletes across all age groups. In contrast, the current protocol limits the ability of RFD to accurately detect individual changes. Therefore, RFD requires careful interpretation and protocol modifications, such as extended familiarization, to improve stability and precision.		[Kamada, Kotaro] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Yamashita, Daichi] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci & Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Nishiumi, Daichi; Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001812521200001	38	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Romdhani, Amir; Yaakoubi, Mohamed; Ghorbel, Ahmed; Jridi, Bouali; Elkholi, Safaa M.; Zghibi, Makram; Gharbi, Adnene; Trabelsi, Omar								Comparing three playback speeds in video modeling: Effects on visuospatial serial memory of gymnastics routines								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261478839				2026	While reducing video playback speed is theorized to lower cognitive load and enhance motor learning, current pedagogical research often infers these benefits from performance outcomes rather than isolating them through objective measurements of the learner's internal cognitive and physiological state. Therefore, this study investigated the effects of video playback speed on the immediate visuospatial serial memory (VSM) of a gymnastics sequence in young adults, specifically accounting for internal physiological and psychological factors including mood, fatigue, hunger, thirst, and baseline visuospatial working memory capacity. A total of 112 sports science students, aged 20.36 +/- 1.01 years, were randomly assigned to one of three playback speed conditions: normal speed (NS), 0.75 & times; speed (RS75), or 0.50 & times; speed (RS50). Immediate visuospatial recall performance was assessed following a single viewing of a custom-designed video of a 21-movement floor routine. Statistical analysis revealed no significant differences in VSM across playback speeds in any of the five models after applying a global Bonferroni correction for multiple tests (adjusted threshold: alpha = 0.01). Notably, the group effect observed when adjusting for thirst (p = 0.047) failed to reach this more stringent significance level. These findings challenge the assumption that slowed video playback inherently enhances cognitive processing and highlight the importance of internal learner states on immediate VSM. Practical implications suggest that reduced playback speeds did not offer a statistically significant advantage for the immediate VSM of gymnastics sequences compared with normal-speed playback under the current experimental conditions.		[Romdhani, Amir; Yaakoubi, Mohamed; Ghorbel, Ahmed; Gharbi, Adnene; Trabelsi, Omar] Natl Observ Sport, Res Unit Phys Act Sport & Hlth, Tunis, Tunisia; [Yaakoubi, Mohamed; Ghorbel, Ahmed; Jridi, Bouali; Zghibi, Makram; Trabelsi, Omar] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Kef, Tunisia; [Elkholi, Safaa M.] Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman Univ, Coll Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; [Trabelsi, Omar] Natl Observ Sport, Res Unit Phys Act Sport & Hlth, Tunis, Tunisia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001855115700001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lee, Don; Kwon, Woong; Maeng, Iseup; Cho, Minseok; Cottingham, Michael								AI-personalized sports experiences: the moderating role of fan identification								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-03-2026-0146				2026	Purpose-This study aims to investigate how fans respond to artificial intelligence (AI)-personalized sports experiences and how these responses are influenced by their level of identification with a sports entity. Design/methodology/approach-Integrating the technology acceptance model, source credibility theory and uses and gratifications framework, personalization is conceptualized as a driver of perceived authenticity, which, in turn, enhances overall satisfaction with AI-generated sports content (e.g. personalized highlights, recommendation feeds, chatbots and AI-driven statistics). Using a cross-sectional survey of adult sport consumers with recent AI content experience, we test a moderated mediation model in which fan identification moderates both the personalization-authenticity and authenticity-satisfaction relationships. Findings-Results suggest that personalization enhances perceived authenticity and satisfaction, with these effects amplified for highly identified fans. Conversely, low-identified fans may perceive AI content as overly algorithmic or intrusive, attenuating or reversing these effects. Originality/value-This study extends theory on AI-mediated sports marketing by highlighting authenticity as a key psychological mechanism linking personalization to satisfaction and demonstrating fan identification as a critical boundary condition. Findings offer actionable guidance for tailoring AI personalization to optimize fan engagement and sponsorship outcomes.		[Lee, Don; Cottingham, Michael] Univ Houston, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Sport & Fitness Adm, Houston, TX 77004 USA; [Kwon, Woong; Maeng, Iseup] Jeju Natl Univ, Coll Educ, Phys Educ, Jeju Si, South Korea; [Cho, Minseok] Springfield Coll, Dept Sport Management & Recreat, Springfield, MA USA; [Lee, Don] Univ Houston, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Sport & Fitness Adm, Houston, TX 77004 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001853865100001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sadowski, Wojciech; Rejdych, Wojciech; Glyk, Wojciech; Krzysztofik, Michal								Effects of an isometric conditioning activity on sprint swimming performance in high-level swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2720208				2026	This study examined whether a brief, catch-phase-resembling isometric conditioning activity (CA) combined with an individualised rest time (IRT) enhances dry-land performance and transfers to sprint swimming performance in swimmers. Twelve competitive swimmers performed a randomised, counterbalanced crossover design including two dry-land sessions and two in-water sessions. The CA consisted of maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MVIC, 3 & times; 3 s, 1 min rest) performed in a position resembling the front crawl catch phase. IRT was determined based on post-CA changes in MVIC measured at 4 and 8 min after the CA. Swimming kinematic and kinetic variables were assessed during a 25 m front crawl swim. The CA elicited a significant increase in the dominant arm MVIC following the IRT, whereas no significant changes were observed in the non-dominant arm. Despite this localised potentiation, no significant differences were found between experimental (with CA) and control conditions (without CA) for swimming velocity, time, force, power, stroke length, or stroke rate. A brief, catch-phase-resembling isometric dry-land CA combined with IRT enhanced dominant-arm MVIC, but did not improve sprint swimming performance. These findings suggest that isolated isometric potentiation may be insufficient to enhance performance in complex, highly coordinated tasks such as sprint swimming.		[Sadowski, Wojciech; Rejdych, Wojciech; Glyk, Wojciech; Krzysztofik, Michal] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Krzysztofik, Michal] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sports Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Krzysztofik, Michal] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Krzysztofik, Michal] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sports Games, Prague, Czech Republic								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001854922600001	26	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Morita, Tatsuki; Ono, Yuta; Kaji, Masanori; Tokushima, Yuki								Stressors and coping of Japanese high school baseball coaches in highly competitive Kōshien teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261476945				2026	Coaches in highly competitive youth sport environments operate under intense performance and organizational pressures, yet little is known about how such pressures are experienced and managed within non-Western sport systems. This study examined the stressors and coping practices of head coaches from highly competitive Japanese high school baseball teams that had participated in the culturally significant K & omacr;shien tournament. Semi-structured retrospective interviews were conducted with five head coaches, and the data were thematically analyzed using the transactional model of stress and coping, the cognitive-motivational-relational theory, and a three-dimensional model of coping. Three interrelated categories of stressors were identified: Gaze from inside and outside the school; Dealing with players and parents, including career guidance and recruitment; and Busyness, arising from teachers' dual roles. A total of 14 coping themes illustrated coping as a dynamic, process-oriented set of practices through which coaches navigated the combined demands of competitive success and educational responsibility. Practices such as Clarification of goals, Commitment to responsibility, and Building trust highlighted how coaches proactively integrated performance and educational aims while managing ongoing pressures. These findings inform coach education, organizational policy, and mental-health support in highly competitive youth sport environments.		[Morita, Tatsuki] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Ono, Yuta] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Chiba, Japan; [Kaji, Masanori] Tokyo Womens Coll Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Tokushima, Yuki] Waseda Saga Jr High Sch, High Sch, Saga, Japan; [Morita, Tatsuki] Toyo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001854754200001	38	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sasek, Matic; Smajla, Darjan; Gadnik, Katarina; Spudic, Darjan								Sprint and jump performance responses to curvilinear sprint training with and without a weighted vest in youth female soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261479932				2026	Objectives: Evidence on the effects of curvilinear sprint (CS) training in female soccer players is limited. This study examined the effects of adding a weighted vest during CS training on sprint and vertical jump performance in youth female soccer players. Methods: Sixteen players were randomly assigned to a CS training group (CON; n = 8) or a weighted vest CS training group using 10% body mass (WV; n = 8) for six weeks (one session per week). Pre- and post-intervention testing included a 30-m linear sprint (LS), CS performed to the left and right sides, squat jump (SJ), and countermovement jump (CMJ). Peak sprinting speed (Speak) measured via Global Navigation Satellite System during LS, weaker-side, and stronger-side CS, as well as jump height, were analysed as primary outcomes. Curvilinear sprint asymmetry (CSASY) was calculated as a secondary outcome. Results: Paired-samples t-tests showed significant improvements in weaker-side CS for CON (+3.5%) and WV (+5.3%), accompanied by significant reductions in CSASY. Significant decreases in SJ and CMJ height were observed only in the CON group (-7.6 and -7.7%, respectively). The ANCOVA revealed greater post-intervention Speak in stronger-side and weaker-side CS for the WV group. Conclusion: Curvilinear sprint training improved weaker-side CS performance in youth female soccer players, whereas training with a weighted vest additionally mitigated declines in jumping performance. Curvilinear sprint training with or without a weighted vest may enhance direction-specific sprint speed in youth female soccer players.		[Sasek, Matic; Smajla, Darjan] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Izola, Slovenia; [Gadnik, Katarina; Spudic, Darjan] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Sasek, Matic] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Izola, Slovenia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001853980000001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lim, Jin Jie; de Cruz, Nicholas; Lim, Harry Ban Teck; Slater, Matthew J.								Better leaders, safer spaces: Relationship between coaches' identity leadership, psychological safety and athlete mental health in a Singaporean context								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261474868				2026	The social identity approach to leadership suggests that coaches can influence athletes' performance and health through fostering a shared identity. However, little is known if this effect extends to holistic conceptualisations of athlete mental health, or to athletes in individual sports. Team identification and psychological safety are theorised mediators, although this has not been tested in non-Western samples, such as Singapore. Therefore, the present study investigated if perceived coach identity leadership influences various Singaporean athlete mental health outcomes in individual and team sports, and if team identification and psychological safety mediated the relationship. Results from a sample of 113 Singaporean national elite athletes partially confirmed the relationship between coaches' identity leadership and athlete mental health. While sport type did not moderate the relationship, team identification and psychological safety were confirmed as serial mediators. Taken together, the results suggest that by practicing identity leadership, coaches can positively influence athlete mental health through creating a psychologically safe environment for athletes from individual and team sports.		[Lim, Jin Jie; Slater, Matthew J.] Univ Staffordshire, Sch Hlth Educ Policing & & Sci, Stoke On Trent, England; [Lim, Jin Jie; Lim, Harry Ban Teck] Sport Excellence Singapore, High Performance Sport Inst, Sport Sci & Sport Med, Singapore, Singapore; [de Cruz, Nicholas] Univ Surrey, Sch Biosci, Guildford, Surrey, England; [Lim, Harry Ban Teck] Singapore Univ Social Sci, Sch Humanities & Behav Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Lim, Jin Jie] Univ Staffordshire, Sch Hlth Educ Policing & & Sci, Stoke On Trent, England; [Lim, Jin Jie] Sport Excellence Singapore, High Performance Sport Inst, Sport Sci & Sport Med, Singapore, Singapore								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001852888800001	57	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Vanroose, Matteo; Beckwee, David; Vanlauwe, Johan; Van Loock, Anke; Carpentier, Chloe; Corthouts, Romina; Buyl, Ronald; Van Melick, Nicky; Eechaute, Christophe								The lateral jump-landing test: A novel dynamic postural control test with dual-task in athletes with an anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction at return-to-sport								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101974	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101974			SEP 2026	2026	Objective To evaluate the reliability of the Lateral Jump Landing Test (LJLT), a novel dynamic postural control test incorporating a dual-task component, in athletes with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) at return to sport (RTS). Design Cross-sectional reliability study. Setting University hospital laboratory. Participants Athletes with ACLR at RTS. Methods Dynamic postural control was assessed by counting Change-in-Support Strategy (CSS) errors using two-dimensional video analysis. Test-retest reliability was evaluated using ICC and standard errors of measurement (SEM), and interrater reliability using ICCs and Cohen's kappa coefficients. Between-leg and between-task differences were analysed using paired-samples t-tests (p < .05). Results For test-retest reliability, ICCs were >=.70, except for non-operated leg during the dual task (ICC = .49), with SEMs ranging from 1.7 to 2.7 errors. For the interrater reliability, ICCs were >.90 and kappa coefficients ranged from .50 to 1.0. CSS scores were significantly higher during the dual-task than the single-task condition, except for the operated leg at retest. Between-leg differences were nonsignificant, except during the dual task at retest. Conclusions The LJLT demonstrated moderate-to-good test-retest reliability across most conditions and excellent interrater reliability. The dual-task condition challenged dynamic postural control, while performance was largely comparable between operated and non-operated limbs.		[Vanroose, Matteo] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Physiotherapy Human Physiol & Anat, Pain Mot Res Grp PAIN, Brussels, Belgium; [Vanroose, Matteo] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Movement & Nutr Hlth & Performance MOVE Res Grp, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium; [Van Loock, Anke; Carpentier, Chloe; Corthouts, Romina; Eechaute, Christophe] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Rehabil Res Grp, Brussels, Belgium; [Vanlauwe, Johan] Univ Hosp Brussels, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol, Brussels, Belgium; [Buyl, Ronald] Vrije Univ Brussel, Dept Biostat & Informat, Brussels, Belgium; [Van Melick, Nicky] St Anna Hosp, Sports & Orthoped Res Ctr, Geldrop, Netherlands; [Vanroose, Matteo] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Physiotherapy Human Physiol & Anat, Pain Mot Res Grp PAIN, Brussels, Belgium								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001854196400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Coifman, Itay; Hakim, May; Weiss, Gera; Riemer, Raziel								Human pose estimation for automated biomechanical swimming analysis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2715647				2026	Human pose estimation (HPE) has shown promise in biomechanical analysis across various sports, but its application to swimming has been limited due to the challenges of underwater video analysis. This study presents a novel system for analysing swimming biomechanics using single-camera videos and HPE. We developed specialised models for sagittal (side) and transverse (front) views, achieving average precision (AP) scores of 91.5% and 91.6%, respectively, thus significantly outperforming out-of-the-box HPE models. The system automatically extracts key biomechanical parameters, including stroke rate, kick rate, projected joint angles, and stroke phase timings. The model was tested on a dataset of 24 videos obtained from 12 different swimmers (1 video per view) demonstrating strong agreement with manual annotations, with mean absolute percentage errors (MAPE) of less than 1% for both stroke rate and kick rate. Phase detection accuracy (RMSE) ranged from 1.08 to 2.49 frames, depending on the stroke phase and camera view. The system enables automated analysis of swimming technique without requiring complex motion capture equipment or extensive human annotation, allowing for large-scale biomechanical swimming studies. The system's accuracy and accessibility make it a promising tool for both research and practical applications in swimming biomechanics.		[Coifman, Itay; Hakim, May; Riemer, Raziel] Bengurion Univ Negev, Ind Engn & Management Dept, Beer Sheva, Israel; [Weiss, Gera] Bengurion Univ Negev, Comp Sci Dept, Beer Sheva, Israel; [Coifman, Itay; Riemer, Raziel] Bengurion Univ Negev, Ind Engn & Management Dept, Beer Sheva, Israel								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001852654900001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dasso, Marco; Haycraft, Jade; Savoia, Cristian; Beato, Marco; Parker, Stan								Between-system agreement of K-AI wearable tech (K-sport) and vector S7 global navigation satellite systems for measuring distance, velocity, and acceleration metrics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261475069				2026	This study evaluated the agreement between K-AI Wearable Tech and the previously validated Vector S7 during an Australian football training session. Thirty sub-elite Australian football male players (21.6 +/- 2.8 years) took part in the study. The K-AI Wearable Tech demonstrated mean absolute error (MAE) and root mean square error (RMSE) values of 74.1 m (1.00%) and 133.9 m (1.68%) for total distance, 52.6 m (6.46%) and 64.7 m (10.42%) for combined high-speed running-sprinting distance (> 19 km & sdot; h(-1) ), 6.5 m (4.66%) and 9.8 m (6.51%) for sprinting distance (> 25 km & sdot; h-1 ). Acceleration and deceleration counts were 5.9 (13.92%) and 7.6 (17.04%), and 2.3 (10.07%) and 3.0 (13.66%), respectively. Peak and instantaneous velocity showed MAE and RMSE of 0.35 km & sdot; (-1) (1.20%) and 0.39 km & sdot; h(-1) (1.35%), and 0.11 km & sdot; h(-1) (2.26%) and 0.15 km & sdot; (-1) (3.03%), respectively. Mean biases (95% limits of agreement) were 64.2 m (-170.0 to 298.4) for total distance, 48.6 m (-36.6 to 133.8) for combined high-speed running-sprinting distance (> 19 km & sdot; h(-1) ), and -4.0 m (-21.9 to 13.9) for sprinting distance (> 25 km & sdot; h(-1) ). Acceleration and deceleration counts showed biases of -3.1 (-17.0 to 10.7) and 1.0 (-4.6 to 6.7), while peak and instantaneous velocity were 0.34 km & sdot; h(-1) (-0.05 to 0.73) and 0.11 km & sdot; h(-1) (-0.09 to 0.32), respectively. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) ranged from very large to nearly perfect across all metrics assessed. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the K-AI Wearable Tech produced distance-, velocity-, and acceleration-based outputs comparable to those obtained from Vector S7. However, the magnitudes of both absolute and proportional differences should be considered when interpreting agreement between systems.		[Dasso, Marco; Haycraft, Jade; Parker, Stan] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHES, Melbourne, Vic 3011, Australia; [Dasso, Marco; Parker, Stan] Western Bulldogs Football Club, High Performance Dept, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Savoia, Cristian] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Beato, Marco] Pegaso Telematic Univ, Dept Educ & Sport Sci, Naples, Italy; [Dasso, Marco] Victoria Univ, 104 Ballarat Rd, Melbourne VIC 3011, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001853004000001	50	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	McCaskie, Callum J.; Wing, Christopher								The evolution of match-play in Major League Soccer from 2018 to 2023								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261476246				2026	Major League Soccer (MLS) has experienced significant growth since its establishment 30 years ago. However, no research has investigated the on-field performance trends. Thus, the purpose of this study was to examine the evolution of MLS match-play via technical and tactical key performance indicators, and investigate the differences between teams according to league finishing position. MLS on-field performance indicators were obtained across six seasons from open-source website FBref. Mean game values were collected from 21 match performance indicators for every MLS team over six seasons. Teams were also classified according to their league finishing position at the conclusion of each season. Principal component analysis demonstrated that the first two components explained 62.1% of the total variance, representing possession and goal-scoring dimensions respectively. Team-season observations showed substantial overlap across seasons, suggesting that the underlying structure of MLS match-play remained relatively stable from 2018-2023. Despite this structural stability, several attacking and possession-related performance indicators, including goals, Expected Goals (xG), Total Shots, Shots on Target, Total Progressive Pass Distance, and Carries into the Final Third declined significantly across seasons. Sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of these findings. Higher finishing teams demonstrated superior attacking output and possession-related metrics compared to teams who failed to qualify for playoffs. The reduction in goal-scoring indicators may reflect an advancement in collective defending. MLS coaches and practitioners should give players adequate exposure to attacking game scenarios to enhance their goal-scoring effectiveness, which may also lead to a higher finish in the league.		[McCaskie, Callum J.; Wing, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Nutr & Hlth Innovat Res Inst, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Wing, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Nutr & Hlth Innovat Res Inst, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001852688300001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Yang, Kyoungjin; Kwon, Sungho; Lee, Seungjoo								The multiple mediation effects of sleep quality and competitive state anxiety on the relationship between smartphone dependence and flow state in adolescent soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261475061				2026	This study examined the multiple mediating effects of sleep quality (SQ) and competitive state anxiety (CSA) on the relationship between smartphone dependence (SPD) and flow state (FS) in adolescent soccer players. A total of 229 middle- and high-school soccer players in Korea completed measures assessing SPD, SQ, CSA, and FS. Serial mediation analysis was conducted using the Hayes PROCESS macro (Model 6). The results revealed that SPD was not directly associated with FS. However, SPD was positively associated with poorer SQ and higher levels of CSA, and CSA was negatively associated with FS. Furthermore, the indirect effect of SPD on FS through CSA alone, as well as through the sequential pathway of SQ and CSA, was statistically significant. These findings suggest that SPD may be indirectly related to lower levels of FS in youth athletes, not through a direct association, but through its links with SQ and CSA. Overall, the results highlight the need for integrative approaches in youth sports settings that address digital literacy, pre-competition anxiety management, and sleep hygiene education to promote psychological readiness and enhance flow experiences.		[Yang, Kyoungjin; Kwon, Sungho; Lee, Seungjoo] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea; [Kwon, Sungho] Seoul Natl Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro,151-742E, Seoul, South Korea; [Kwon, Sungho] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001852736200001	82	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhang, Hongjun; Chen, Liquan								Communicating under pressure: How coach-athlete communication structures shape creative decision-making in competitive sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261476171				2026	This study examined the impact of three different coach-initiated communication protocols-directive, dialogic, and constraint-based minimal-on the creative decision-making of elite and sub-elite male soccer players in a real-world training environment. Eighty-seven players (M age = 19.4 years, SD = 2.1) from six La Liga academy teams participated in a naturalistic cluster-randomized experiment embedded within regular training sessions. Creative decision-making was assessed during small-sided games using spatiotemporal tracking, with action originality, adaptive variability, and solution diversity as primary outcome measures. Communication structures were quantified through an interaction analysis of audio-recorded sessions, coding question-response ratios, turn-taking balance, and semantic openness. Data were analyzed using multilevel mixed-effects models that accounted for decisions nested within players and teams. Results indicated that dialogic communication produced significantly greater action originality (beta = 0.47, 95% CI [0.28, 0.66]) and adaptive variability (beta = 0.39, p = .002) than directive communication, with effects mediated by expanded perceptual-action coupling windows (indirect effect = 0.31, 95% CI [0.17, 0.48]). These findings contribute unique evidence that coaching communication functions as a cognitive scaffold restructuring perceptual-action search processes, complementing motivationally-focused frameworks by identifying cognitive scaffolding as an additional pathway through which coach-athlete communication shapes athletic performance		[Zhang, Hongjun] Shanxi Med Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Taiyuan, Shanxi, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Hongjun] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Chen, Liquan] Quzhou Coll Technol, Sch Arts & Sports, Quzhou 324000, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Chen, Liquan] Quzhou Coll Technol, Sch Arts & Sports, Quzhou 324000, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001852706000001	27	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fitas, Afonso; Valdes-Alvarez, Agustin; Miras-Moreno, Sergio; Gomes, Miguel; Cardoso, Caetano; Pezarat Correia, Pedro; Mendonca, Goncalo, V								Impact of velocity intention and autoregulation on lower-body hypertrophy training: Adaptations in the load-velocity relationship and ballistic performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261474870				2026	This study compared the effects of percentage-based training (PBT), self-paced velocity-based training (SPVBT), and fast velocity-based training (FVBT; i.e., performing with maximal velocity intent) on the free-weight back squat load-velocity relationship (LVR) and countermovement jump (CMJ) performance in trained young males. Twenty-eight participants were randomly assigned to each group. For 10 weeks, participants performed two 4-week training cycles comprised of 3 weekly back squat sessions (70-85% of the one-repetition maximum [1RM]) with sets performed to momentary failure. Assessments were conducted at pre-, mid-, and post-training, and included vastus lateralis cross-sectional area (CSA), free-weight back squat 1RM, LVR parameters (slope, %1RM at zero mean concentric velocity [MCV] [LD0], MCV at 0%1RM [V0], area under the curve [Aline], MCV at 90 and 40%1RM, and CMJ parameters (height and average impulse force [IF]). LVR based load adjustments were performed at each session for the SPVBT and FVBT groups. CSA, 1RM, CMJ height increased similarly between groups and time points (p < 0.001, ES > 0.48). LD0 (%1RM) decreased similarly between groups at post-training (p = 0.043; ES: 0.12). Aline, Slope, V0, 90%1RM MCV, 40%1RM MCV and IF remained unchanged over time in all groups. However, V0, 40%1RM MCV and IF were higher for the SPVBT and FVBT groups, when compared to the PBT group at mid-training (p < 0.028; ES > 0.26). These findings indicate that large training volumes performed to momentary failure alter the shape of the LVR, irrespective of velocity intent and autoregulation. Additionally, while velocity expression with heavier loads is well preserved, applying VBT within this context may improve velocity output when lifting lighter relative loads. Finally, CMJ height can be improved during hypertrophy-focused training cycles, with increases in maximal strength playing a crucial role. However, relying on VBT seems beneficial as it magnifies force expression in unresisted lower-body ballistic contractions.		[Fitas, Afonso; Cardoso, Caetano; Mendonca, Goncalo, V] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Neuromuscular Res Lab, Estrada Cost, P- 1499002 Dafundo, Portugal; [Fitas, Afonso; Mendonca, Goncalo, V] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER Ctr Interdisciplinar Estudo Performance Huma, Dafundo, Portugal; [Valdes-Alvarez, Agustin] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte INEF, Dept Salud & Rendimiento Humano, LFE Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Miras-Moreno, Sergio] Univ Granada, Sport & Hlth Univ Res Inst iMUDS, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Gomes, Miguel] Santarem Polytech Univ, Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr SPRINT, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Pezarat Correia, Pedro] Egas Moniz Sch Hlth & Sci, Almada, Portugal; [Fitas, Afonso] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Neuromuscular Res Lab, Estrada Cost, P- 1499002 Dafundo, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001853029100001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Aydin, Serkan								Short-term 16:8 time-restricted feeding increases cardiovascular strain during prolonged endurance running in professional football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261476245				2026	This study examined the effects of a two-week 16:8 time-restricted feeding protocol on exercise-induced heart rate responses in professional football players. Participants assigned to the time-restricted feeding group followed the dietary intervention for two consecutive weeks, and adherence to the protocol was monitored daily through self-reported dietary logs and direct communication with the investigators. Following the intervention, participants completed a standardized 5000 m endurance run with continuous heart rate monitoring. The time-restricted feeding group demonstrated significantly higher heart rate values at all measured time points (8th, 16th, and 24th minute; p < 0.05) compared with controls. Between-group differences were analyzed using independent-samples t-tests. Effect sizes (Cohen's d) and 95% confidence intervals were calculated to facilitate the interpretation of the findings. Significant differences in HR were observed between groups during the endurance test. The TRF group demonstrated significantly higher HR values compared with the NF group at all measured time points and for the average HR across the 24-min exercise period (p < 0.05). Large effect sizes were observed (Cohen's d = 0.84-1.51). These findings suggest that short-term time-restricted feeding was associated with higher heart rate responses during the standardized endurance running task. These results highlight that short-term time-restricted intermittent fasting may influence cardiovascular responses during endurance exercise, even in trained athletes. These results may assist coaches and practitioners in monitoring internal training load when implementing short-term time-restricted feeding protocols in competitive football players.		[Aydin, Serkan] Tekirdag Namik Kemal Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Coaching Educ Dept, TR-59030 Tekirdag, Turkiye; [Aydin, Serkan] Tekirdag Namik Kemal Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Coaching Educ Dept, TR-59030 Tekirdag, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001853003200001	18	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Akyildiz, Zeki; Gunay, Mehmet								Comparison of GPS-derived peak running speed and accelerometer-derived metrics during submaximal running tests for monitoring neuromuscular fatigue in soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261474776				2026	This research aims to compare the parameters (Peak running speed and Player Load (TM) (A.U.)) of a submaximal run test (SRT) and a countermovement jump (CMJ) test used to assess neuromuscular fatigue (NMF) in soccer players. To achieve this, we employed a longitudinal repeated-measures design to assess fatigue-induced changes across multiple time points. Twenty male soccer players volunteered to participate in the study. Participants performed SRT and CMJ tests 24 h pre-game, 24 h post-game, and 48 h post-game. The differences in NMF measurements at these three times were analyzed by repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA). The reliability of all NMF measurements was examined based on the coefficient of variation (CV) %, standard error measurement (SEM), and minimum detectable change (MDC95) analysis. There were statistically significant differences between 24 h pre-game, 24 h post-game and 48 h post- game measurements regarding CMJ height (cm); (F = 16.995; p <= .001; eta 2p = 0.472), and SRT parameters; player load 1D up (PL1Dup) (A.U.) (F = 27.386; p <= .001; eta 2p = 0.590), player load 1D side (PL1Dside) (A.U.) (F = 21.556; p <= .001; eta 2p = 0.532), player load 1D forward (PL1Dfwd) (A.U.) (F = 13.590; p <= .001; eta 2p = 0.417), total player load (TPL1D) (A.U.) (F = 21.337; p <= .001; eta 2p = 0.529) and peak speed (m/s) (F = 21.556; p <= .001; eta 2p = 0.532). In conclusion, these findings suggest that peak speed monitoring may serve as a valuable, time-efficient complement to traditional fatigue assessment tools, providing practitioners with a practical, accessible framework for managing player recovery in professional soccer environments.		[Akyildiz, Zeki] Afyon Kocatepe Univ, Sports Sci Fac, Dept Coaching Educ, Afyonkarahisar, Turkiye; [Gunay, Mehmet] Gazi Univ, Sports Sci Fac, Training & Movement Sci Dept, Ankara, Turkiye; [Akyildiz, Zeki] Afyon Kocatepe Univ, Sports Sci Fac, Dept Coaching Educ, Afyonkarahisar, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001852701200001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Yang, Yi-Zhen; Hung, Jui-Chung; Zheng, Hsin-Yi								Validating a generative AI-assisted pose refinement framework for kinematic analysis in elite taekwondo athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2716360				2026	This study evaluated a Generative AI-Assisted Pose Refinement Framework integrating Large Language Models (LLM) and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to enhance markerless motion capture accuracy in elite Taekwondo kyorugi athletes. Eight elite athletes (age: 21.1 +/- 0.9 yrs) underwent a 12-week training macrocycle. Kicking kinematics were recorded using MediaPipe Pose, with the LLM-RAG system developed to detect and correct anatomical outliers based on biomechanical constraints. Results indicated that the framework successfully identified 10.37% of keypoints as outliers, improving detection accuracy by 5.69% to 13.24% compared to raw MediaPipe estimates. Furthermore, the refined data effectively captured individualised performance adaptations following the intervention: five athletes demonstrated significant improvements in stability (with the coefficient of variation (CV) for speed decreasing by up to 39.66%), one maintained performance, and two exhibited increased variability, validating the system's sensitivity to longitudinal training effects. This approach significantly enhances the reliability of markerless tracking for high-velocity movements, providing a viable, field-based alternative for continuous biomechanical monitoring in applied sports settings.		[Yang, Yi-Zhen] Univ Taipei, Dept Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hung, Jui-Chung; Zheng, Hsin-Yi] Univ Taipei, Dept Comp Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Yang, Yi-Zhen] Univ Taipei, Dept Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001852659000001	27	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Chun, Yoonki; Ji, Yulsoo; Park, Sujin								Losing the blame game: automated officiating, team identification and fan attribution of losses								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-03-2026-0167				2026	Purpose-This study examines how automated officiating affects fans' attribution of negative game outcomes and team satisfaction, with particular attention to the role of team identification. Drawing on Social Identity Theory and Attribution Theory, we propose that automated officiating reduces the availability and credibility of external blame targets, constraining identity-protective attributions and exposing highly identified fans to greater psychological costs. Design/methodology/approach-A single-factor (officiating type: human vs. automated) between-subjects experiment was conducted with 577 MLB fans. We measured participants' supported team and team identification, followed by a manipulation using a simulated playoff loss scenario involving either a human umpire or the Automated Ball-Strike (ABS) system. Then, internal attribution, team satisfaction and preferred post-loss remedies were measured. Hypothesis testing was performed using ANOVA, regression and conditional process analysis. Findings-Fans in the ABS condition made significantly more internal attributions than those in the human umpire condition. Internal attributions negatively affected team satisfaction and also mediated the relationship between officiating type and team satisfaction. Team identification moderated these effects, with more highly identified fans showing a stronger shift toward internal attribution and a larger indirect reduction in team satisfaction. Originality/value-This study identifies a boundary condition for the identity-protective function of team identification, showing that its benefits depend on the availability of credible external attribution targets. By demonstrating that automated officiating shifts fans' attributional patterns away from the officiating system and toward the team itself, the findings show the psychological consequences of technological innovation in sport officiating.		[Chun, Yoonki] Bowling Green State Univ, Sch Appl Human Dev, Bowling Green, OH USA; [Ji, Yulsoo] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL 32610 USA; [Park, Sujin] Univ Florida, Dept Mkt, Gainesville, FL USA; [Ji, Yulsoo] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL 32610 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001849640200001	50	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Cassidy, Jordan; Russell, Scott; Maloney, Michael; Kelly, Vincent; Gorman, Adam D.								Skill acquisition specialists in coach learning systems: Coach developer perspectives on roles and tensions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261475277				2026	Coaches often rely solely on experiential knowledge to facilitate skill acquisition. Coach developers may offer unique insights on the role of skill acquisition specialists in supporting coach learning in this area. This study explored high-performance coach developers' reflections on (1) the value of skill acquisition in coaching and coach development, and (2) the situating of skill acquisition specialists within coach learning systems. Nine coach developers participated in semi-structured interviews. Data were analysed using reflexive thematic analysis informed by a pragmatic research approach, generating two interconnected themes. First, skill acquisition was viewed as foundational to coaching practice, yet largely tacitly applied, and perceived to be inconsistent within coach learning systems. Second, participants highlighted skill acquisition specialists could offer a beneficial contribution to coach learning, and part of their role could involve working with coach developers. However, this situating also surfaced several tensions. These findings highlight the importance of skill acquisition within coach learning systems, as well as underscoring the need for role clarity, most notably a clear articulation of the skill acquisition specialist's role and how it differs from, and complements, the work of both coaches and coach developers.		[Cassidy, Jordan; Kelly, Vincent; Gorman, Adam D.] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Cassidy, Jordan] Queensland Acad Sport, Res & Innovat, Nathan, Australia; [Cassidy, Jordan] Dublin City Univ, CoEx Lab, Dublin, Ireland; [Russell, Scott] Australian Catholic Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Maloney, Michael] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, Australia; [Maloney, Michael] Australian Inst Sport, Canberra, Australia; [Cassidy, Jordan] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001849678500001	72	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Imbert, Sebastien; Daussin, Frederic; Piscione, Julien; Brocherie, Franck; Joncheray, Helene								Constraints and opportunities: The case of the first French professional female rugby players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261478026				2026	This study aims to address the lack of research on the dual-career experiences of the first generation of professional female rugby players in France. Specifically, it examines (1) the current status of professional female rugby players and (2) how they combine their rugby careers with higher education and/or employment outside sport. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 16 professional female rugby players (8 from rugby sevens and 8 from rugby union). Data were analysed using reflexive thematic analysis to explore how they combine rugby with higher education and/or employment. The recent professionalisation of female rugby in France presents both opportunities and constraints for dual careers. Professional contracts offer greater financial security and allow players to devote more time to rugby. However, their short-term nature creates uncertainty and encourages athletes to prepare for a career outside sport. Participants have adapted their educational pathways to meet sporting demands, often through flexible distance learning. Higher education was seen as essential to securing their long-term career prospects. Maintaining or developing a job alongside rugby also emerged as a strategy to ensure financial stability and facilitate future career transitions. Enhanced institutional support is required, particularly in terms of flexible education programmes and accessible employment opportunities. Furthermore, dedicated career development programmes should be implemented to ensure a smoother post-sport transition for professional female rugby players. This study contributes to the literature on dual careers by examining the experiences of the first generation of professional female rugby players in France, a context that remains understudied despite the recent move towards professionalisation.		[Imbert, Sebastien; Daussin, Frederic] Univ Littoral Cote dOpale, Univ Artois, Univ Lille,ULR 7369, Pluridisciplinary Sport Hlth & Soc Res Unit URePSS, Lille, France; [Imbert, Sebastien] Ligue Rugby Hauts Defrance, Villeneuve DAscq, France; [Imbert, Sebastien; Brocherie, Franck; Joncheray, Helene] French Inst Sport INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, EA 7370, Paris, France; [Piscione, Julien] French Rugby Federat FFR, Performance Dept, Marcoussis, France; [Joncheray, Helene] Univ Paris Cite, Paris Inst Sport Sci & Hlth, URP 3625, I3SP, Paris, France; [Joncheray, Helene] French Inst Sport INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, EA 7370, Paris, France; [Joncheray, Helene] Univ Paris Cite, Paris Inst Sport Sci & Hlth, URP 3625, I3SP, Paris, France; [Joncheray, Helene] Univ Paris Cite, French Inst Sport INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, Paris Inst Sport Sci & Hlth I3SP,URP 3625, Paris, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001849678300001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Pan, Pengyu; Lago-Penas, Carlos; Rein, Robert; Liu, Tianbiao; Memmert, Daniel								Same formation, different styles: An exploratory study of clustering playing style of teams in 4-3-3 formation in elite soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261476911				2026	This study examined whether teams using identical formations display similar playing styles by integrating Phase of Play (PoP) indicators with clustering and explainable machine learning. Ninety-three observations from teams employing a 4-3-3 formation in the FIFA World Cup 2022 (n = 58) and FIFA Club World Cup 2025 (n = 35) were analyzed. K-means clustering identified distinct styles, while XGBoost with SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) interpreted key differentiators. Two contrasting styles emerged despite identical formations: a possession-oriented and a defending-oriented style. SHAP revealed attacking transition and both opposed and unopposed build-up as decisive in-possession indicators, and low block and high press as main out-of-possession factors. The possession-oriented cluster was characterized by structured build-up play, higher possession, total passes, pass completion (p < 0.001, large), and more defensive line breaks (p < 0.01, moderate). The defending-oriented cluster demonstrated deeper defensive organization, with greater low-block, more pushing-on-into-pressing actions and defensive pressures (p < 0.001, moderate), and longer ball recovery time (p < 0.001, large). These findings show that teams sharing the same formation can differ substantially in style, emphasizing the limitations of formation-based analysis and the value of PoP indicators for understanding functional behaviors in elite soccer.		[Pan, Pengyu; Rein, Robert; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sports Informat, Cologne, Germany; [Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Vigo, CIDEGA, Fac Educ Sci & Sport, Pontevedra, Spain; [Liu, Tianbiao] Beijing Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Sport, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Pan, Pengyu] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sports Informat, Cologne, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001850355000001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhu, Chenwen; Wang, Lina; Tao, Meiling; Gu, Lingling; He, Xulan; Yin, Tianyue; Li, Jiuzhang; Thompson, Steve; Bankosz, Ziemowit; Gu, Nan								Effects of a neuromuscular warm-up on Y-balance, countermovement jump performance, and stroke velocity in adolescent table tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261474873				2026	Background/Objective: Adolescent table tennis players are exposed to substantial physical and psychological demands during a period of ongoing growth and development, placing high demands on movement control, explosive performance, and sport-specific stroke execution. This study investigated the effects of an 8-week neuromuscular warm-up on dynamic balance, countermovement jump (CMJ) performance, and stroke velocity in adolescent male table tennis players. Methods: Thirty adolescent male table tennis players were randomly assigned to either a neuromuscular warm-up group or a control group performing a conventional warm-up before regular training sessions. The intervention lasted 8 weeks, with 2 sessions per week. Outcome measures included upper quarter Y-balance test composite score (YBT-UQ), lower quarter Y-balance test composite score (YBT-LQ), CMJ height, and forehand and backhand topspin stroke velocity, assessed before and after the intervention. Linear mixed-effects models were used to examine the effects of group, time, and group & times; time interaction for each outcome. Results: Linear mixed-effects models revealed significant group & times; time interactions for YBT-UQ (p < 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.32), YBT-LQ (p = 0.003, eta p(2) = 0.25), CMJ height (p < 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.54), forehand topspin velocity (p = 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.30), and backhand topspin velocity (p < 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.35). Significant pre-to-post improvements were observed in the neuromuscular warm-up group, whereas no significant changes were found in the control group. Conclusion: These findings suggest that neuromuscular warm-up may be an effective strategy to enhance dynamic balance, jumping performance, and stroke velocity in adolescent male table tennis players.		[Zhu, Chenwen; Yin, Tianyue; Gu, Nan] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Table Tennis Coll, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lina; Gu, Lingling] Fudan Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Tao, Meiling] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [He, Xulan] Macao Polytech Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Sports, Macau, Peoples R China; [Li, Jiuzhang] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Thompson, Steve] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Coll Hlth Wellbeing & Life Sci, Sch Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, England; [Bankosz, Ziemowit] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Didact, Wroclaw, Poland; [Gu, Nan] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Table Tennis Coll, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001850054900001	56	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Gansukh, Maral-Erdene; Fujibayashi, Nobuaki; Sakurai, Shinji								Biomechanical comparison between toe and edge jumps in figure skating: focusing on toe-loop and loop in female skaters								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2714287				2026	In figure skating, Toe jumps have been reported to achieve greater jump height than Edge jumps. However, the biomechanical differences inherent in their associated take-off mechanisms have not yet been clarified. Therefore, the aim was to clarify the biomechanical distinctions between the triple Toe-loop (TL) and the triple Loop (LP), which share the same take-off leg. Ten female skaters performed both jumps, while three-dimensional kinematic data were collected using a marker-based optical motion-capture system. Parameters related to vertical and rotational velocities were analysed across the take-off sequence. An inverted pendulum model and relative vertical momentum analysis were applied to investigate the mechanisms of vertical velocity generation. Angular momentum, moment of inertia, inclination angle, and trunk twist angle were calculated to examine the mechanisms underlying rotational velocity generation. The TL was characterised by a stepwise acquisition of vertical velocity and angular momentum across the Glide and Transition phases. In contrast, the LP demonstrated a highly integrated take-off strategy, simultaneously generating vertical velocity and angular momentum during the Transition through coordinated lower-limb inclination and free-leg swing. These findings reveal distinct take-off strategies underlying Toe and Edge jumps and provide biomechanical evidence to support coaching and performance evaluation.		[Gansukh, Maral-Erdene] Chukyo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Toyota, Japan; [Fujibayashi, Nobuaki; Sakurai, Shinji] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Toyota, Japan; [Gansukh, Maral-Erdene] Chukyo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Toyota, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001852633400001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tang, Chengcheng								Proposing the readiness triad and efficiency triangle: A conceptual framework for integrative wearable-based readiness monitoring in elite golf								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261476175				2026	Athlete readiness reflects the dynamic balance between accumulated stress and recovery and is poorly captured by any single physiological variable. Wearable devices now generate dense, multidimensional data in the field, yet practitioners lack simple, theory-driven frameworks for integrating these streams into decisions at the point of coaching. This paper proposes two original, device-agnostic monitoring frameworks for elite golf. The Readiness Triad integrates morning heart rate, psychological stress, and REM sleep to index neuro-autonomic and psychological readiness; the Efficiency Triangle integrates step count, energy expenditure, and a fatigue index to index movement economy and internal load. We set out the physiological rationale for selecting and integrating each constituent variable. We then illustrate how the frameworks are operationalised, using monitoring data from a single elite female golfer. The observation period covered six days: a taper and three rounds of a national-level tournament. Worked through day by day, the weakest-link rule returned a 'poor' overall reading on three of the six days. Each was governed by a single vertex. Applied to matched days, the Efficiency Triangle returned a signal in which the fatigue index rose while ambulatory output was unchanged. These readings illustrate how the rules resolve discordant inputs rather than constituting findings in their own right. The single case is presented solely as a proof-of-concept demonstration of how the frameworks operate and is not offered as validation. We discuss practical implications for coaching and the priorities for formal validation, including replication in larger cohorts and the use of criterion-referenced measures.		[Tang, Chengcheng] Hebei Oriental Coll, Golf Ind & Innovat Res Inst, Langfang, Peoples R China; [Tang, Chengcheng] Hebei Oriental Coll, Golf Ind & Innovat Res Inst, Langfang, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001849917100001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hirayama, Kuniaki; Takei, Seiichiro; Uehara, Noriko; Katsuge, Motoki; Yanaka, Takuya; Kibushi, Benio; Tsuchihashi, Keishu; Watanabe, Hiromu; Kitamura, Hyo; Asano, Hiroto; Zhao, Hanye; Hirata, Kosuke; Hume, Patria A.								Associations between jump-derived mechanical indicators and sprint performance across sprint sections in baseball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261475476				2026	The purpose of this study was to examine the relationships between sprint performance across discrete distance sections and mechanical indicators derived from ballistic and reactive jumping tasks in male collegiate baseball players. Sixty-two players performed maximal 40-m sprints with split times recorded every 10 m. Mechanical indicators were obtained from loaded jump squats for force-velocity profiling and from depth and rebound jumps to calculate reactive strength index (RSI). Associations between sprint split times and mechanical indicators were analysed using multiple regression. For the 0-10 m section, maximal power (Pmax) was retained as a significant explanatory variable, and a model including both Pmax and the slope of the force-velocity relationship (SF-v) explained a modest proportion of the variance (adjusted R2 approximate to 0.21). For sprint sections beyond 10 m, RSI derived from the 40-cm depth jump was consistently retained as the sole significant explanatory variable, explaining approximately 9-13% of the variance. Jump-derived mechanical indicators were associated with sprint performance in a phase-specific manner, although the explained variance was modest. Indicators from force-velocity profiling were associated with the initial acceleration phase, whereas reactive performance from higher drop height jumps was associated with later sprint sections. These findings highlight the importance of considering sprint phase when interpreting jump-based assessments in baseball players.		[Hirayama, Kuniaki; Takei, Seiichiro; Uehara, Noriko; Kibushi, Benio; Zhao, Hanye; Hirata, Kosuke] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Hirayama, Kuniaki; Tsuchihashi, Keishu] Waseda Univ, Res Inst Baseball Sci, Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan; [Hirayama, Kuniaki; Hume, Patria A.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Takei, Seiichiro] Teikyo Univ, Inst Sports Sci & Med, Hachioji, Tokyo, Japan; [Katsuge, Motoki; Kitamura, Hyo; Asano, Hiroto] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Yanaka, Takuya] Yokohama Coll Commerce, Fac Commerce, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Kibushi, Benio] Kobe Univ, Grad Sch Human Dev & Environm, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Watanabe, Hiromu] Waseda Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Hirata, Kosuke] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Hirayama, Kuniaki] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 2 579 15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001849910100001	23	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Jiang, Dongting; Tang, Yue; Zhang, Ningyi; Zhou, Jianhao; Zhong, Yuming; Weldon, Anthony; Li, Yongming								Beyond one-size-fits-all: Professional development needs of Chinese elite coaches across strength-power, endurance, and team sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261471822				2026	Purpose: This exploratory cross-sectional questionnaire study compared Chinese elite coaches' professional-development perceptions and needs across strength-power, endurance, and team sports, focusing on coaching attributes, learning topics, learning sources, and education programme design. Methods: A total of 151 eligible elite coaches (50 strength-power, 48 endurance, and 53 team-sport coaches) completed a structured questionnaire covering four professional-development dimensions rated on 5-point Likert scales for perceived importance or preference. Between-group differences were tested with Kruskal-Wallis H and Dunn's post hoc tests, with effect sizes reported. Results: All groups valued practical experience and athletic background over educational qualifications and certifications, favoured discussions with peers and mentors and reflective practice, and preferred practicums, workshops, and face-to-face delivery over lectures and fully online formats. Group differences centred on learning content: tactics and strategy received the highest preference ratings from team-sport coaches, intermediate ratings from endurance coaches, and the lowest ratings from strength-power coaches (p < .001, epsilon(2) = .207, large); strength and conditioning was rated lower by team-sport coaches (p = .003), and load monitoring was rated higher by endurance than team-sport coaches (p = .003). Other significant differences were small to medium. Technical skill development, mental training, and team building and leadership received high preference ratings across groups. Conclusion: Chinese elite coaches in this exploratory sample shared a common developmental foundation while differing mainly in content priorities corresponding to each sport's performance demands. Elite coach education could retain a practice-based, context-grounded common core while differentiating content by sport.		[Jiang, Dongting; Tang, Yue; Zhang, Ningyi; Zhou, Jianhao; Zhong, Yuming; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Dongting; Zhang, Ningyi; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Coaching, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci, Birmingham, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Aston Villa Fdn, Aston Villa Football Club, Birmingham, England; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Sch Coaching, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001848956100001	68	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Seipp, Deborah; Fasold, Frowin; Klatt, Stefanie								Agility performance in team sports: The role of cognitive demands and motor execution in response time tests								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261475677				2026	The role of cognitive factors and motor execution in agility actions in team sports is often discussed for differentiating players. However, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. This study aims to investigate the role of cognitive and physical factors in agility-like response time tests by using general stimuli, and how these influence expertise differences in female team sport players. A total of n = 23 higher-level (2(nd)-4(th) league, age: 23.80 +/- 2.95 years) and n = 22 lower-level (7(th)/8(th) league, age: 28.80 +/- 7.60 years) female team handball players performed agility-like response time tests under simple and complex conditions on the SpeedCourt (R). Additionally, jump height, five-second tapping and reaction time on the Eriksen-Flanker-Task were assessed. The influence of test complexity and performance level was analyzed using a 2 & times; 2 MANOVA. Correlation analyses were performed. Reaction and movement time in the agility-like response time tests increased significantly with test complexity (p < 0.001). Only movement time differentiated between higher-and lower-level players, with higher-level players demonstrating significantly shorter movement times. Faster movement times correlated moderately with jump height (r = -0.48, r(2) = 0.24, p < 0.01). Domain-general cognitive measures were not associated with agility-like response time test performance (p > 0.05). Physical factors, as indicated by movement time, contribute to differentiating female team sport players in agility-like response time tests using general stimuli. Agility testing and training should include sport-specific stimuli and decision-making demands to better target cognitive-perceptual skills relevant to agility performance in team sports.		[Seipp, Deborah; Fasold, Frowin; Klatt, Stefanie] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sect Cognit Team Sports, Cologne, Germany; [Seipp, Deborah] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001848962100001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Niu, Zunqi; Zou, Shusheng; Wu, Quanshuo; Sun, Yanggenglan; Yu, Xiang; Wang, Zhaoyang; Dong, Rui								Longitudinal changes in goalkeeper running performance and ball-related match actions in the Chinese Super League: A 13-season study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261475864				2026	This study examined longitudinal changes in goalkeeper match performance in the Chinese Super League from 2012 to 2024. A total of 6096 match observations from 270 professional goalkeepers were analysed. Running and technical data were obtained using a semi-automated optical tracking system, and seasonal trends were examined using mixed effects models. The results showed significant changes in both running and technical performance over time. In running performance, total distance (beta = 0.90, p < .05), average speed (beta = 0.056, p < .01), moderate speed running actions (beta = 0.014, p < .001), and walking distance (beta = 0.81, p < .001) increased significantly, whereas jump frequency decreased (beta = 0.0038, p < .001). In technical performance, total passes (beta = 0.032, p < .001), successful passes (beta = 0.017, p < .001), long passes (beta = 0.033, p < .001), and receptions (beta = 0.0042, p < .001) increased significantly. By contrast, clearances (beta = 0.0094, p < .001), average distribution length (beta = 1.9, p < .001), and individual possessions (beta = 0.0061, p < .05) decreased. These findings indicate that goalkeepers have become more involved in possession and build up play in modern professional football.		[Niu, Zunqi] Wuhan Sports Univ, Hubei Prov Res Ctr Excellence Campus Football, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Zou, Shusheng; Wu, Quanshuo; Sun, Yanggenglan; Yu, Xiang; Wang, Zhaoyang; Dong, Rui] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Zhaoyang] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001849574900001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Edis, Caglar; Ozgur, Serkan; Fornaziero, Andre; Coban, Cansu								Effects of elastic band-resisted plyometric training on jump performance in young male soccer players: A randomised controlled trial								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261474808				2026	Plyometric training is widely used to enhance explosive performance in youth athletes; however, the effects of adding elastic band resistance remain unclear. This randomised controlled trial compared elastic band-resisted plyometric training (EBPT), traditional plyometric training (PLT), and a control condition (CON) on jump performance in young male soccer players. Thirty-three players (age 14-15 years) were assigned to EBPT (n = 10), PLT (n = 11), or CON (n = 12); both training groups completed a 6-week intervention (two sessions per week). Jump height and take-off velocity for squat jump, countermovement jump without and with arm swing (CMJ-NS, CMJ-AS), and dominant-and non-dominant-leg single-leg vertical jumps (SVJ-D, SVJ-ND) were analysed using mixed-design ANOVA; peak power and relative peak power were analysed using one-way ANCOVA with the pre-test value as covariate (with Quade's non-parametric rank ANCOVA where the homogeneity-of-regression-slopes assumption was violated). Groups were balanced for maturation at baseline (both p > 0.85). Significant time & times; group interactions emerged for CMJ-NS height (p = .045), SVJ-D height (p = .046), SVJ-ND height (p = .010), and CMJ-NS take-off velocity (p = .027). EBPT exceeded CON for CMJ-NS height and exceeded both CON and PLT for SVJ-D height. One-way ANCOVA showed that EBPT exceeded both PLT and CON for dominant single-leg peak power (F(2, 29) = 13.81, p < .001, eta p(2) = .49); for CMJ-NS peak power EBPT exceeded only the control (not PLT), and no relative peak-power outcome differed between groups, indicating that the absolute-power advantages were partly driven by body-mass differences and did not persist once power was normalised to body mass. EBPT preferentially enhances unilateral explosive performance, with its only advantage over traditional plyometrics in dominant single-leg jump height and peak power; for bilateral countermovement tasks, EBPT and traditional plyometrics produce comparable adaptations, supporting selective application aligned with training goals. Trial registration: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT07367230, Retrospectively registered.		[Edis, Caglar] Trabzon Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Trabzon, Turkiye; [Ozgur, Serkan] Manisa Celal Bayar Univ, Med Fac, Dept Anat, Manisa, Turkiye; [Fornaziero, Andre] Fed Univ Parana UFPR, Dept Phys Educ, Curitiba, Brazil; [Coban, Cansu] Harran Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Sanliurfa, Turkiye; [Ozgur, Serkan] Manisa Celal Bayar Univ, Med Fac, Dept Anat, Manisa, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001848955200001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Cardozo, Erico Aurelio Abreu								Between passion and algorithm: sports betting, algorithmic personalization and the Brazilian fan in the era of next-generation sports fandom								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-03-2026-0193				2026	Purpose This article investigates how the integrated experience on sports betting platforms and real-time data applications reconfigures the Brazilian fan's perception of algorithmic personalization, emotional engagement, perception of obsession and loyalty intention, repositioning betting as an experience infrastructure within the context of next-generation sports fandom. Design/methodology/approach An exploratory sequential mixed-methods approach was adopted. In the qualitative phase, 18 semi-structured online interviews were conducted with Brazilian fan-bettors, exploring meanings, rituals and moral tensions associated with the use of betting platforms and real-time data. In the quantitative phase, an online survey was conducted with 352 respondents, analysed using structural equation modelling with partial least squares estimation, to test the relationships between perceived personalization, emotional engagement, perception of obsession, loyalty, frequency of use and perceived control. Findings The results indicate that perceived personalization has a significant positive effect on emotional engagement, which in turn strongly impacts loyalty intention, with partial mediation of engagement. The perception of obsession is positively associated with both engagement and loyalty, albeit with smaller magnitudes, while frequency of use moderates the emotion-loyalty relationship and perceived control amplifies the effect of personalization on engagement. Originality/value The study integrates literature on algorithmic personalization, sports fandom theory, bettor psychology and digital services retail, engaging with recent debates on algorithmic fandom and generative artificial intelligence in sports marketing. It represents the first Brazilian empirical study to jointly model perceived personalization, emotional engagement, obsession, loyalty, frequency and control within sports betting platforms.		[Cardozo, Erico Aurelio Abreu] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, CEPEAD FACE, Dept Ciencias Adm, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Cardozo, Erico Aurelio Abreu] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, CEPEAD FACE, Dept Ciencias Adm, Belo Horizonte, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001847478400001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kleis, Rachel R.; Kubala, Jennifer E. Tinsley; Dlugonski, Deirdre; Hoch, Johanna M.; Hogg-Graham, Rachel								Using physical literacy to understand physical activity after ACL reconstruction: A qualitative descriptive analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101969	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101969			SEP 2026	2026	Objectives: To examine perceptions of physical literacy and physical activity (PA) and explore how components of physical literacy interact with PA participation in young adults with a history of ACLR. Design: Qualitative descriptive analysis with a positive/negative deviance framework. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: Forty-five young adults (ages 18-35) with a history of ACLR completed one-week of PA observation using an accelerometer. The positive/negative deviance framework identified ten participants to complete semistructured interviews based on their PA participation. Main outcome measures: Weekly moderate-to-vigorous PA. Individual semi-structured interviews were conducted in-person. A collaborative analysis process was used to identify themes and subthemes from participant interviews. Results: The semi-structured interviews identified four higher-order themes: Barriers to PA; Facilitators to PA; Knowledge influences recovery and PA after sport; and Establishing a routine for PA. Within these, 12 subthemes were identified in which participants discussed the roles of motivation, confidence, physical competence, and knowledge for PA participation after ACLR. Conclusion: The results suggest that individuals with a history of ACLR may benefit from additional education and support throughout ACLR recovery and as they transition from organized sport into lifelong PA engagement.		[Kleis, Rachel R.] Univ Wisconsin Eau Claire, Coll Hlth & Human Sci, Dept Kinesiol, Eau Claire, WI USA; [Kubala, Jennifer E. Tinsley] Univ Kentucky, Coll Med, Dept Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, Lexington, KY USA; [Kubala, Jennifer E. Tinsley] Lexington Fire Dept, Lexington, KY USA; [Dlugonski, Deirdre] Univ Kentucky, Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Clin Sci, Lexington, KY USA; [Hoch, Johanna M.] Univ Kentucky, Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Athlet Training & Clin Nutr, Lexington, KY USA; [Hogg-Graham, Rachel] Univ Kentucky, Coll Publ Hlth, Dept Hlth Management & Policy, Lexington, KY USA; [Kleis, Rachel R.] Univ Wisconsin Eau Claire, Dept Kinesiol, 105 Garfield Ave, Eau Claire, WI 54702 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001850728900001	66	Article; Article		
J	Clash, Russell; Gooderick, Julie								Variability in baseline concussion symptom burden and symptom reporting among UK student-athletes with neurodevelopmental, psychological, or mental health conditions								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2715348				2026	Objective To examine variability in baseline concussion symptom burden and symptom reporting among UK university student athletes (SA) with preexisting neurodevelopmental, psychological, or mental health (NP/MH) conditions, with/without concussion history (CH), to inform clinical interpretation and best practice. Methods A total of 404 SA (male = 188, female = 216) from the University of Chichester, across 12 sports, completed baseline screening using the Sports Concussion Assessment Tool (SCAT) 22-item symptom checklist (severity scored 0 = none to 6 = severe; total severity score range 0-132) prior to participation over three university sports seasons. Symptom distributions were summarized using medians and interquartile ranges (IQR). Prevalence of >= 1 symptom was compared using chi(2) tests, with differences in symptom burden between concussion groups within NP/MH conditions assessed using Mann-Whitney U tests. Hierarchical linear regression analyses examined variance in symptom burden determined by NP/MH diagnosis and CH. Results SA with NP/MH diagnosis reported a higher overall symptom burden than those without. SA without NP/MH diagnosis but with CH had a greater symptom count (p < .001) and severity (p < .002). Hierarchical regression indicated that NP/MH explained 12% of variance in symptom count (R-2 = .12) and 16% in symptom severity (R-2 = .16), with previous concussion and depression/anxiety adding significant incremental variance (p < .001). Chi-square analysis showed that SA with NP/MH and CH were more likely to report >= 1 symptom (chi(2) (1) = 9.96, p < .001). Symptom pattern analysis revealed difficulty concentrating, fatigue/low energy, and trouble sleeping as the most frequent baseline symptoms, with females reporting consistent prevalence. Conclusion Preexisting NP/MH conditions and CH can substantially influence baseline symptom reporting in UK SA. Clinicians should consider these factors when interpreting SCAT symptom checklists, as variability is expected, and the management of SA return to sport is often determined by baseline values.		[Clash, Russell] Univ Chichester, Fac Hlth Sci & Engn, Sports Therapy Dept, Bishop Otter Campus,Coll Lane, Chichester PO19 6PE, West Sussex, England; [Gooderick, Julie] Univ Kent, Sch Nat Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci, Canterbury, England; [Clash, Russell] Univ Chichester, Fac Hlth Sci & Engn, Sports Therapy Dept, Bishop Otter Campus,Coll Lane, Chichester PO19 6PE, West Sussex, England								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001847938800001	56	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Margi, Raz; Tapiro, Moran; Yona, Tomer; Evron, Yigal; Fischer, Arielle G.								Pumping technique of elite iQfoil windsurfers in ecological settings								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2715644				2026	Windsurfing pumping is a key manoeuvre in the Olympic iQFOiL class, yet its on-water biomechanics and coordination remain undescribed. This exploratory study quantified in situ kinematics and inter-element coordination during upwind pumping in seven elite windsurfers. A board-mounted camera recorded 36 race-pace upwind pumping sequences, and OpenPose-based markerless motion capture was used to estimate centre of mass (COM), knee and trunk angles, and COM-to-sail (CTS) and COM-to-board (CTB) distances. We conducted laboratory validation trials of the pumping motion to compare the markerless approach with a marker-based motion capture system. Field data showed large ranges of motion in the knee (58.8 +/- 12.0 degrees), trunk (37.1 +/- 10.8 degrees), CTS (16.1 +/- 4.0 %H; % of body height) and CTB (10.9 +/- 3.0 %H). Cross-correlation analysis revealed synchronous coordination between CTS, knee and trunk (lags < 5% of the cycle) and antiphase coordination between CTS and CTB. Together, these findings identify a whole-body pumping strategy in which knee and trunk motion are tightly coordinated to drive CTS and provide quantitative targets for coaching, simulator design and lab to field integration.		[Margi, Raz; Yona, Tomer; Evron, Yigal; Fischer, Arielle G.] Technion Israel Inst Technol, Dept Biomed Engn, Hefa, Israel; [Tapiro, Moran] Israel Sailing Assoc, Natl Windsurfing Team, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Fischer, Arielle G.] Technion Israel Inst Technol, Dept Biomed Engn, Hefa, Israel								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001847750700001	72	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Erdeljac, Tabitha; Comyns, Tom M.; Norton, Catherine; Warrington, Giles; Sweeney, Gary; Bibby, Kilian; Purtill, Helen; Kenny, Ian C.								Knowledge and reporting of relative energy deficiency in sport (REDs): An international mixed-method study of rugby players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261472281				2026	This study investigated Rugby players' knowledge and reporting of Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (REDs). A mixed-method design was employed. In phase one, 180 Rugby players (52.2% male; age: 27.0 +/- 8.0 years) from 15 countries responded to an online survey assessing familiarity with REDs, knowledge of health and performance outcomes (21-item quiz), confidence in self-identifying and self-reporting signs/symptoms, and attitudes towards reporting. Most participants (63.9%) had no familiarity with REDs, despite moderate awareness of associated outcomes (mean knowledge quiz score: 15.3 +/- 4.6 out of 21). The majority reported low confidence in self-identifying (60.5%) or self-reporting (56.7%). In phase two, 13 Rugby players (53.8% male; age: 26.2 +/- 4.3 years) from three countries participated in follow-up focus groups exploring perceived barriers and facilitators to reporting REDs. Two overarching themes were observed: (1) supportive, informed, and trusting environments support REDs reporting, and (2) reporting REDs feels risky, uncomfortable, or unsafe. Four sub-themes were identified within theme 1: (1) encouragement to report, (2) knowledge of the topic, (3) trust and openness, and (4) non-stigmatised symptoms. Five sub-themes were observed within theme 2: (1) access to support, (2) lack of knowledge, (3) fear of judgement, (4) topic delicacy, and (5) fear of repercussions. The findings demonstrated Rugby players' limited familiarity with REDs and low confidence identifying and reporting symptoms, despite moderate awareness of associated outcomes. Identified barriers and facilitators highlight the need for targeted education and clear reporting pathways to improve REDs recognition and reporting within the Rugby context.		[Erdeljac, Tabitha; Comyns, Tom M.; Norton, Catherine; Warrington, Giles; Bibby, Kilian; Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Erdeljac, Tabitha; Comyns, Tom M.; Norton, Catherine; Warrington, Giles; Bibby, Kilian; Purtill, Helen; Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Erdeljac, Tabitha; Comyns, Tom M.; Norton, Catherine; Warrington, Giles; Bibby, Kilian; Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Norton, Catherine] Univ Limerick, Food Diet & Nutr Res Grp, Limerick, Ireland; [Sweeney, Gary] Technol Univ Dublin, Sch Biol Hlth & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Sweeney, Gary] Scottish Rugby Union SRU, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Purtill, Helen] Univ Limerick, Dept Math & Stat, Limerick, Ireland; [Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Res Ireland Ctr Software, Lero, Limerick, Ireland; [Norton, Catherine] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001848529400001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Paskewitz, Jeffrey; Malloy, Philip; McClure, Philip; Austin, Alexis; Zarzycki, Ryan								Elbow extension-trunk rotation ratio during early acceleration is associated with biomechanical efficiency in division III collegiate baseball pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2716363				2026	Trunk-arm coordination influences throwing-arm torques in baseball pitching, yet quantitative descriptions of coordinated trunk-arm motion are lacking. This study described trunk-arm coordination during pitching using joint excursion ratios and clarified the relationships between joint excursion ratios and biomechanical efficiency. 18 Division III college baseball pitchers underwent markerless motion capture, from which four joint excursion ratios and throwing-arm torques were calculated. Pearson coefficients described associations between joint excursion ratios and throwing-arm torques normalised by height, mass, and ball velocity. Multivariable linear regression models predicting raw throwing-arm torques and containing mass and each significantly correlated joint excursion ratios as predictors were compared to univariable models containing mass alone. Significant associations were observed between elbow extension/trunk rotation (EETR) ratio and normalised peak elbow (r = -0.47, p = 0.045) and peak shoulder (r = -0.51, p = 0.025) torques. Addition of EETR ratio explained 16% greater variance in raw shoulder external rotation torque/ball velocity and 13% greater variance in raw elbow valgus torque/ball velocity than mass alone. This study suggests EETR ratio during the first half of the acceleration phase is associated with biomechanical efficiency.		[Paskewitz, Jeffrey; McClure, Philip] Arcadia Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Glenside, PA 19038 USA; [Malloy, Philip] Rush Univ, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Chicago, IL USA; [Malloy, Philip] Rush Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Chicago, IL USA; [Austin, Alexis] Arcadia Univ, Dept Athlet, Glenside, PA USA; [Zarzycki, Ryan] Med Univ South Carolina, Dept Rehabil Sci, Charleston, SC USA; [Paskewitz, Jeffrey] Arcadia Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Glenside, PA 19038 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001846566600001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhou, Zhengqing; Bai, Yufei								Regional integration and the ice-snow economy: spatial spillover effects within urban agglomerations in China								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0389				2026	Purpose-This study investigates how regional integration (RI) influences the high-quality development of the ice-snow economy (ISE) in China. It addresses a critical gap in the literature by examining spatial spillover effects and nonlinear relationships across urban clusters during the post-Winter Olympics era. Design/methodology/approach-The study constructs a multidimensional ISE index covering 207 Chinese cities from 2013 to 2024, incorporating five dimensions: industrial support, market dynamism, infrastructure, government support and environmental sustainability. It employs fixed-effects panel models and spatial Durbin models (SDMs), complemented by two-regime SDMs, to investigate the direct and indirect effects of RI, while controlling for spatial heterogeneity. Findings-Results reveal an inverted U-shaped relationship between RI and ISE, suggesting that moderate integration enhances ISE growth, while excessive integration may lead to resource crowding. Significant spatial spillover effects are identified, particularly in core-periphery structures. Dual-synergy patterns emerge in regions such as Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei and Harbin-Changchun, whereas regions including Chengdu-Chongqing exhibit growth-suppressing patterns. Service-oriented sectors demonstrate stronger spatial diffusion than manufacturing-oriented sectors. Originality/value-This study enriches the spatial economics literature by integrating nonlinear spatial spillovers and core-periphery asymmetries into the analysis of a rapidly expanding policy-driven economy. The findings offer empirical support for differentiated regional strategies and cross-regional coordination mechanisms in fostering sustainable ISE development.		[Zhou, Zhengqing] Peking Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Bai, Yufei] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing Winter Olymp Culture & Ice & Snow Sports D, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Zhengqing] Peking Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001846190700001	81	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Minuci, Eduardo G.; Rodriguez, Zachary								Determinants of Contracts and Wages in the Women's National Basketball Association								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS											10.1177/15270025261474143				2026	Compensation in the WNBA reflects both player performance and institutional arrangements. Exploring data on 263 newly signed contracts from 2017 to 2024, this study investigates determinants of wages and contract length. Regression results indicate a persistent wage increase following the 2020 Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA), though gains were concentrated among top earners. Performance metrics show limited explanatory power, suggesting salary compression and modest returns to on-court productivity. We find that contract duration is sensitive to expectations about future CBAs, as players appear to favor shorter deals to renegotiate under new terms. External shocks, such as the 2020 shortened "bubble" season, further reduced long-term commitments amid heightened revenue uncertainty. Overall, findings underscore how institutional reform and shocks jointly shape labor market outcomes in the WNBA, with implications for wage inequality and contract security.		[Minuci, Eduardo G.] North Carolina A&T State Univ, Willie A Deese Coll Business & Econ, 1601 E Market St, Greensboro, NC 27411 USA; [Rodriguez, Zachary] Union Coll, Dept Econ, Schenectady, NY USA; [Minuci, Eduardo G.] North Carolina A&T State Univ, Willie A Deese Coll Business & Econ, 1601 E Market St, Greensboro, NC 27411 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001845381500001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kayll, Samual A.; Hinman, Rana S.; Bryant, Adam L.; Bennell, Kim L.; Rowe, Patrick L.; Chi, Pei Wei; Starkey, Scott; McManus, Fiona; Saxby, David; Paterson, Kade L.								The peak and impulse of patellofemoral joint force during running are not associated with pain severity or duration in adolescents with patellofemoral pain: An exploratory cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101971	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101971			SEP 2026	2026	Objectives: Examine the association between the peak and impulse of patellofemoral joint force during running and the severity and duration of pain in adolescents with patellofemoral pain. Design: Exploratory cross-sectional. Participants: Fifty-one physically active adolescents with patellofemoral pain (12-19 years). Main outcome measures: Kinematic, kinetic, and electromyography data were collected, and PFJ force (N) and impulse (N*s) during stance were estimated using an EMG-informed neuromusculoskeletal model. Pain was assessed as: (i) worst pain in the previous week (11-point numerical rating scale [NRS]), (ii) pain immediately after running (NRS), (iii) KOOS-Child pain (0-100), and (iv) pain duration (months). Associations were examined using linear regression adjusted for age, sex, and body mass. Results: Each 100-N increase in peak patellofemoral joint force was associated with trivial changes of-0.01 (95% CI-0.03 to 0.01) in worst pain in the previous week,-0.02 (-0.05-0.01) in pain immediately following running, 0.01 (-0.19-0.21) in KOOS-Child pain, and-0.20 (-0.64-0.24) in duration of pain. Findings were similar for patellofemoral joint force impulse. Conclusion: These exploratory findings suggest the peak and impulse of patellofemoral joint force during running may not be important cross-sectional associates of pain severity or duration in adolescents with patellofemoral pain.		[Kayll, Samual A.; Hinman, Rana S.; Bryant, Adam L.; Bennell, Kim L.; Rowe, Patrick L.; Chi, Pei Wei; Starkey, Scott; Paterson, Kade L.] Univ Melbourne, Ctr Hlth Exercise & Sports Med, Melbourne Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Level 7,Alan Gilbert Bldg,161 Barry St, Parkville 3010, Australia; [McManus, Fiona] Univ Melbourne, Ctr Epidemiol & Biostat, Melbourne Sch Populat & Global Hlth, Biostat Unit, Carlton, Vic 3053, Australia; [McManus, Fiona] Univ Melbourne, Fac Med Dent & Hlth Sci, Methods & Implementat Support Clin & Hlth Res Hub, Carlton, Vic 3053, Australia; [Saxby, David] Griffith Univ, Australian Ctr Precis Hlth & Technol PRECISE, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Paterson, Kade L.] Univ Melbourne, Ctr Hlth Exercise & Sports Med, Melbourne Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Level 7,Alan Gilbert Bldg,161 Barry St, Parkville 3010, Australia								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001847700600001	70	Article; Article		
J	Oliveira, V. f.; Mesquita, L. b.; Sousa, J. e.; Carmo, V. j. g.; Dantas, D. s.; Melo, R. s.; Ferreira, A. p. l.								Impacts of ankle sprain on functional performance in under-20 soccer players: a cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101964	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101964			SEP 2026	2026	Objectives: To compare functional and biomechanical parameters related to ankle mobility, neuromuscular control, and dynamic balance in under-20 soccer players with and without a history of lateral ankle sprain. Study design: Multicenter cross-sectional observational study. Setting: Training centers of two professional soccer clubs in Brazil. Participants: Seventy-five male soccer players aged 16-20 years. Main outcome measures: A comprehensive assessment was performed using the Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT) to assess perceived ankle instability, the Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM) to evaluate self-reported function, the Weight-Bearing Lunge Test (WBLT) to measure ankle dorsiflexion, the Y-Balance Test (YBT) to assess dynamic balance, and the Hop Tests to evaluate lower-limb neuromuscular performance. Results: Athletes with a history of lateral ankle sprain showed lower joint stability (p <= 0.005), reduced functionality (p <= 0.040), decreased dorsiflexion (p = 0.031), impaired dynamic balance (p = 0.046), and worse performance in hop tests (p <= 0.018) Conclusions: A history of lateral ankle sprain was associated with poorer ankle function, reduced dorsiflexion, impaired dynamic balance, and lower neuromuscular performance in under-20 soccer players. These findings support the use of comprehensive functional assessment to guide rehabilitation and return-to-sport strategies.		[Oliveira, V. f.; Mesquita, L. b.; Sousa, J. e.; Carmo, V. j. g.; Dantas, D. s.; Melo, R. s.; Ferreira, A. p. l.] Fed Univ Pernambuco UFPE, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Oliveira, V. f.] Fed Univ Pernambuco UFPE, Recife, PE, Brazil								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001847700900001	16	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Yanqi; Peng, Cheng; He, Yaying; Xue, Ranxiao; Zhang, Hongjun; Chen, Xin; Mi, Jing								Effects of upper-body plyometric training on upper-body sport-specific strength and forehand loop shot quality in adolescent table tennis players: A randomized controlled trial								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261470713				2026	Objectives This study aimed to compare the effects of plyometric training and traditional resistance training on upper-body sport-specific strength and stroke quality in adolescent table tennis athletes. Methods Thirty-two adolescent athletes from the Liaoning Province Table Tennis Team were randomly assigned to either the Plyometric Training (PT) group (n = 16) or the Resistance Training (RT) group (n = 16) and underwent an 8-week training intervention. Upper-body sport-specific strength was assessed using the Standing Rotational Medicine Ball Throw, while the table tennis Hawk-Eye intelligent training system was used to measure indicators such as ball speed, spin rate, spin quality, and landing point control for the forehand backspin loop shot. Results Significant interaction effects between time and group were observed for standing rotational medicine ball throw performance, ball speed, spin rate, and spin quality (p < 0.05), indicating greater improvements in the PT group than in the RT group. No significant interaction effect between time and group was found for placement score (p > 0.05). Conclusion Compared with traditional resistance training, upper-body plyometric training was associated with greater improvements in upper-body sport-specific strength and forehand loop shot quality in adolescent table tennis athletes, particularly in ball speed, spin rate, and spin quality. However, these findings should be interpreted cautiously because biological maturation was not directly assessed.		[Wang, Yanqi; Peng, Cheng; Xue, Ranxiao; Zhang, Hongjun; Mi, Jing] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Competit Sports, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [He, Yaying] Capital Normal Univ, Sch Humanities & Social Sci, Kede Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Chen, Xin] Dalian Univ, Table Tennis Secondary Tech Sch, Dalian, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Mi, Jing] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Competit Sports, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001843823300001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Uchida, Tomoya; Matsuo, Tomoyuki; Nakamura, Takuya; Nishizawa, Izumi; Sakata, Jun; Matsuzawa, Kanta; Suzuki, Tatsuhiro; Sakai, Tadahiro								Inter-system differences in modelling approaches for shoulder joint kinematics between markerless and marker-based motion capture during baseball pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2711093				2026	Comparative data on markerless motion capture systems for upper-extremity kinematics during high-speed movements remain limited. We aimed to examine inter-system modelling differences in shoulder joint kinematics between a markerless motion capture system (Theia3D) and a marker-based system during baseball pitching, focusing on a wide range of shoulder joint motion throughout baseball pitching. Six collegiate pitchers completed 117 trials recorded simultaneously by both systems. Shoulder joint angles and joint centre positions were compared using nested Bland-Altman analysis, intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC (3,1)), and statistical parametric mapping (SPM). At maximum external rotation (MER), inter-system differences were small for external rotation (bias: -0.3 degrees; ICC = 0.77), whereas the horizontal angle demonstrated a pronounced fixed bias (bias: -19.1 degrees). At ball release (BR), inter-system differences increased across all joint angles, with the largest discrepancy for external rotation (bias: -8.5 degrees; ICC = 0.33). Proportional bias was evident for most variables at BR. Between-participant variance exceeded within-participant variance at MER, indicating that participant-specific offsets were primary contributors to the limits of agreement. SPM identified significant inter-system differences during the acceleration phase. These findings highlight the importance of understanding the characteristics of each modelling approach for appropriate interpretation and application of markerless motion capture in overhead athletes.		[Uchida, Tomoya; Nishizawa, Izumi; Sakata, Jun; Matsuzawa, Kanta; Suzuki, Tatsuhiro; Sakai, Tadahiro] Toyota Mem Hosp, Toyota Athlete Support Ctr, Toyota, Japan; [Matsuo, Tomoyuki; Nakamura, Takuya; Nishizawa, Izumi] Univ Osaka, Grad Sch Med, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Toyonaka, Japan; [Nakamura, Takuya] Shutaikai Hosp, Rehabil Ctr, Yokaichi, Japan; [Uchida, Tomoya] Toyota Mem Hosp, Toyota Athlete Support Ctr, Toyota, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001840874800001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Pechlivanos, Rafail Georgios; Sahinis, Chrysostomos; Amiridis, Ioannis G.; Kellis, Eleftherios								Contraction mode and velocity affect bilateral torque asymmetry direction but not magnitude in female basketball athletes and controls								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261472279				2026	The purpose of this study was to investigate bilateral asymmetries in isokinetic strength of lower limb muscles under different contraction modes and velocities in elite and sub-elite basketball athletes, and control participants. Twenty-two female basketball players (12 elite, 10 sub-elite) and 19 physically active females performed concentric and eccentric knee extensions (KE), knee flexions (KF), plantar flexions (PF), and dorsiflexions at different angular velocities (knee joint: 60 degrees & centerdot;s(-1), 180 degrees & centerdot;s(-1) and ankle joint: 30 degrees & centerdot;s(-1), 90 degrees & centerdot;s(-1)). Bilateral asymmetry magnitude and direction (left or right limb) in torque were calculated. Kappa coefficients analysis showed that asymmetry direction was inconsistent across different contraction modes and angular velocities for KE (range: -0.32 to 0.47), KF (range: -0.12 to 0.58), and PF (range: -0.23 to 0.78) for both female basketball athletes and control participants, while DF (range: 0.66 to 1.00) presented consistent asymmetry direction. Linear mixed-effects models indicated that asymmetry magnitude of KE, KF, and PF did not differ (p > 0.05) across isokinetic testing conditions for both athletes and controls. These findings suggest that direction of bilateral asymmetries but not magnitude differs between contraction modes, angular velocities, and muscle group. Training status did not affect bilateral asymmetry in females. Single-mode or single-velocity testing may misrepresent bilateral asymmetry, therefore assessment should include multiple modes and velocities to guide individualized training.		[Pechlivanos, Rafail Georgios; Sahinis, Chrysostomos; Amiridis, Ioannis G.; Kellis, Eleftherios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Lab Neuromech, Agios Ioannis 62110, Serres, Greece; [Pechlivanos, Rafail Georgios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Lab Neuromech, Agios Ioannis 62110, Serres, Greece								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001842390100001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wang, Zilong; Wang, Pengfei; Wang, Ting; Xuan, Bojie; Zheng, Weihua; Xu, Yining; Meng, Lingyue; Zhang, Qiuxia; Wang, Xiangdong								From compensation to decompensation: The threshold effect of recurrence frequency on shock absorption and movement strategies in individuals with chronic ankle instability during single-leg drop landing								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101972	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101972			SEP 2026	2026	Objectives: To compare lower limb biomechanics during single-leg drop landings between individuals with low (2-4/year) and high (>= 5/year) chronic ankle instability (CAI) recurrence frequencies. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Sixty males with unilateral CAI, stratified into High-CAI (n = 30) and Low-CAI (n = 30) groups. Main outcome measures: Peak vertical ground reaction force (vGRF), time to peak vGRF, vertical loading rate (LR), leg stiffness, and lower extremity kinematics. Results: High-CAI participants demonstrated greater peak vGRF, shorter time to peak vGRF, higher LR, and greater hip flexion, hip abduction, and ankle inversion at initial contact than the Low-CAI group (all p <= 0.048; eta 2p = 0.066-0.275). Group & times; side interactions occurred for knee flexion, ankle inversion, and LR (p = 0.005-0.033; eta 2p = 0.076-0.128). Simple-effects analyses showed the unstable side of the Low-CAI group exhibited less knee flexion than its stable side, whereas the unstable side of the High-CAI group exhibited greater ankle inversion and LR than both the unstable side of the Low-CAI group and its stable side (all p <= 0.040; d = 0.350-1.221). Conclusions: High-frequency CAI recurrence (>= 5 times/year) induces a maladaptive landing strategy with altered proximal compensations and impaired shock absorption. Frequency-based stratification is essential for optimizing management.		[Wang, Zilong; Zheng, Weihua; Wang, Xiangdong] Jimei Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Wang, Pengfei] Dongshin Univ, Dept Sports & Leisure, Naju, Jeollanam Do, South Korea; [Wang, Ting] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Competit Sports, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Xuan, Bojie] Ningbo Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yining] Xiamen Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Meng, Lingyue; Zhang, Qiuxia] Soochow Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Suzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xiangdong] Jimei Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Qiuxia] Soochow Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Suzhou, Peoples R China								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001844631200001	46	Article; Article		
J	Ferreira-Silva, Hygor; de Morais Machado, Eliane; Silva, Cassius Iury Anselmo-e-; Pereira, Natalia Duarte; Serrao, Fabio Viadanna								Foot orthoses alter kinematics in runners with patellofemoral pain: a statistical parametric mapping analysis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2701982				2026	Clinical guidelines recommend foot orthoses for patients with patellofemoral pain (PFP) and excessive subtalar pronation. Although Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) is established for analysing continuous kinematic waveforms in biomechanics, foot orthoses research in PFP frequently relies on discrete variables (e.g. peak angles). Applying SPM allows detailed assessment of movement adaptations throughout the stance phase that isolated data points may overlook. This study evaluated the immediate effects of medially wedged orthoses on lower limb kinematics, pain, and self-perceived improvement in runners with PFP. Thirty participants (15 men/15 women) ran under two conditions: original shoe insoles (control) and 4 degrees medially wedged orthoses (intervention). Rearfoot, tibial, and femoral 3D kinematics were analysed using SPM. Compared with control, orthoses reduced rearfoot eversion (18-81% stance, p = 0.007), tibial internal rotation (40-84%, p < 0.001), and increased femoral adduction (23-47%, p = 0.011). Acute pain remained unchanged (p = 0.940), but more runners reported self-perceived improvement (p = 0.031). SPM identified time-specific alterations missed by discrete analyses. Medially wedged orthoses reduce distal rotations while increasing proximal adduction. Greater self-perceived improvement suggests short-term clinical benefits despite no immediate pain reduction.		[Ferreira-Silva, Hygor; de Morais Machado, Eliane; Silva, Cassius Iury Anselmo-e-; Pereira, Natalia Duarte; Serrao, Fabio Viadanna] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Ctr Biol & Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Sao Carlos, Brazil; [Serrao, Fabio Viadanna] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Ctr Biol & Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Sao Carlos, Brazil								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001851803100001	64	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Paul, Kiera J.; Ball, Nick B.; Mara, Jocelyn K.; Brassington, Riley J.; Cooke, Julie								Playing the strong game: Investigating pre-season strength adaptations in elite female rugby league athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261470672				2026	Maximising strength and power during pre-season is essential for performance success and injury mitigation in rugby league athletes. The typical pre-season strength and power adaptations in elite national level female rugby league athletes are currently unknown. An observational cohort study was used to determine changes in strength, power, and anthropometry across a seven-week pre-season in an elite female rugby league team (n = 28; age: 24.0 +/- 4.2 years; height: 168.4 +/- 6.3 cm; weight: 78.3 +/- 11.8 kg). Testing was completed at the start and end of the 2024 National Rugby League Women's pre-season. A linear mixed model was utilised to compare differences between positions and over time. As a group, fat mass (b = 1988.88, p = 0.035) and body fat percentage (b = -2.32, p = 0.003) decreased, whilst lean mass and fat-free mass increased between the start and end of pre-season (p <= 0.05). Positional differences were observed across all anthropometric measures, relative 3RM bench press (b = -0.21, p = 0.005), countermovement jump peak power (b = 97.02, p = 0.015), drop jump height (b = -7.91, p = 0.012), squat jump peak power (b = 106.96, p = 0.012), and hop jump RSI flight contact time (b = -0.77, p = 0.021). An interaction effect was observed for 3RM bench pull (b = 3.53, p = 0.043) and relative 3RM back squat (b = 0.12, p = 0.032), with forwards demonstrating greater strength increases than backs. The lack of change in strength and power metrics indicates the pre-season design may have been insufficient to induce meaningful change in this cohort. Future research should examine other training capacities and larger cross-team cohorts longitudinally, to assist practitioners in development and application of safe and effective training programs.		[Paul, Kiera J.] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, 11 Kiranari St, Canberra, ACT 2617, Australia; [Ball, Nick B.; Mara, Jocelyn K.; Brassington, Riley J.; Cooke, Julie] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, Australia; [Brassington, Riley J.] Canberra Raiders, Canberra, Australia; [Paul, Kiera J.] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, 11 Kiranari St, Canberra, ACT 2617, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001841641200001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Chnini, Zouhaier; Ouergui, Ibrahim; Ardigo, Luca Paolo; Chtourou, Hamdi								Comparative effects of isometric and plyometric training on neuromuscular performance and postural balance in male soccer players (U-19): A randomized controlled trial								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261468289				2026	Purpose This study investigated the effects of an 8-week isometric strength training at multiple joint angles (IST) vs. loaded plyometric training (PT) on physical and balance performances in youth soccer players (U19). Methods Forty-five male players (age: 18.06 +/- 0.78 years) were randomly assigned to either IST (n = 15), PT (n = 15) or a control (n = 15) group. In addition to soccer-specific regular training (i.e., control group), IST and PT trained 2 & times;/week for 8 weeks. Athletes were assessed using the squat jump (SJ), countermovement jump (CMJ), horizontal jump (HJ), 30-m sprint (30 m), 5-m sprint (5 m), change of direction ability (4 & times; 5 m sprint test [S 4 & times; 5 m]), 5 m shuttle run test (5 m SRT) and static balance (stork balance test) one week before and after training. Results Significant time & times; group interactions showed higher performances with IST and PT compared to CG for jump tests (SJ: p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.70, CMJ: p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.65 and HJ: p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.65), sprint tests (30m: p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.85 and 5m: p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.68), change of direction (4 & times; 5mS: p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.83), 5 m shuttle run test (5 m SRT: p = 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.80) and static balance tests (Right leg: p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.86 and Left leg: p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.91).. Conclusion Physical and balance performances were improved after both training (IST and PT). Thus, coaches and fitness conditioners may incorporate IST and PT in training routine of soccer players during the in-season period.		[Chnini, Zouhaier; Chtourou, Hamdi] Univ Sfax, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Sfax, Sfax, Tunisia; [Chnini, Zouhaier; Chtourou, Hamdi] Natl Observ Sport, Phys Act Sport & Hlth, UR18JS01, Tunis, Tunisia; [Ouergui, Ibrahim] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Kef, El Kef, Tunisia; [Ouergui, Ibrahim] Univ Jendouba, Res Unit, Sport Sci Hlth & Movement, UR22JS01, El Kef, Tunisia; [Ardigo, Luca Paolo] NLA Univ Coll, Dept Teacher Educ, Oslo, Norway; [Ouergui, Ibrahim] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Kef, El Kef, Tunisia; [Ardigo, Luca Paolo] NLA Univ Coll, Dept Teacher Educ, Oslo, Norway								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001841621300001	69	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Li, Ru; Li, Xiang; Zhang, Chen								Climate Justice in Sports: Quantifying the Thermally-Induced Competitive Inequality								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS											10.1177/15270025261474144				2026	This study examines the impact of thermal stress on competitive inequality in professional football. Using a labor productivity framework and a dataset of over 39,000 matches from the Big Five European leagues (France, England, Germany, Spain, and Italy) spanning 1996 to 2019, we analyze the effect of Wet-Bulb Globe Temperature (WBGT) on match outcomes through ordinal logistic regression. We find that higher WBGT significantly erodes the home advantage, functioning as a physiological equalizer. Mechanism analysis reveals that heat reduces home teams' relative offensive output and degrades defensive discipline. Crucially, we introduce a previously unquantified component of home advantage, the adaptation gap, demonstrating that this climate acclimatization advantage erodes when the away team is better adapted to the prevailing heat than the home side. These findings reframe home advantage as a measurable physio-environmental phenomenon central to understanding climate justice in elite sports.		[Li, Ru; Li, Xiang] Chengdu Univ Technol, Sch Business, Chengdu 610059, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Chen] Chinese Acad Sci, Natl Sci Lib, Chengdu Branch, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Chen] 289 South Qunxian St, Chengdu 610299, Sichuan, Peoples R China								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001840488700001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Coutinho, Tiago; Macedo, Victor; Ugrinowitsch, Carlos; Lamas, Leonardo								Tactical tendencies in 3x3 and 5x5 basketball: A comparative study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261471741				2026	This study compared women's and men's offensive and defensive tactics in 3x3 and 5x5 basketball, analyzing frequencies, court zones, types, and efficiency of game actions. Bayesian methods were used to estimate mean parameters for game actions and team's efficiency. Chi-square tests were used to analyze the frequencies of game action types, and court zone distributions. Results revealed the mean number of Space Creation Dynamics (SCDs, offensive actions) per possession was significantly higher in 5x5 than 3x3 for both women (5x5W: 2.55 [95% CI: 2.41, 2.69] vs. 3x3W: 1.90 [1.82, 1.98]) and men (5x5M: 2.46 [2.33, 2.59] vs. 3x3M: 1.95 [1.88, 2.03]). Court zone usage for SCDs showed significant association (p < 0.001), with 5x5 men emphasizing perimeter zones (e.g., TOP 28.3%) while 3x3 groups favored inside-arc areas. SCD types also varied significantly (p < 0.001), despite the prevalence of pick and screen (73-81% of all SCDs). Defensive responses to pick and screen also showed significant group differences, with 3x3 teams relying more on 'switch'. Offensive efficiency (points per possession - ppp) showed men consistently outscoring women (e.g., 3x3M: 0.61 [0.57-0.64] vs. 3x3W: 0.53 [0.50-0.56]), while sports showed no significant difference. Coaches should apply these results by shifting 3x3 training focus away from complex perimeter-based sequences typical of 5x5 and toward performing pick and screen combined with scoring attempts within the arc. Defensively, players should be prepared to efficiently switch defense while accounting for potential mismatches.		[Coutinho, Tiago; Lamas, Leonardo] Univ Brasilia, Fac Phys Educ, Brasilia, Brazil; [Macedo, Victor] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI USA; [Ugrinowitsch, Carlos] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Coutinho, Tiago] Univ Brasilia, Fac Phys Educ, Brasilia, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001838654900001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Cecchelli, Giuseppe; Slawinski, Jean; Poirier, Canelle; Vazel, Pierre-Jean; Lacourt, Baptiste; Colloud, Floren								Sex-specific spatiotemporal organisation patterns reveal novel determinants of hammer performance across levels								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261470711				2026	The hammer throw requires optimal spatial and temporal coordination to maximise release parameters. This study aimed to identify differences in the spatiotemporal organisation of the throw across varying performance levels ranging from highly trained to world class. Using a video analysis protocol, we reconstructed the 3D hammer trajectories of 27 female and 20 male throwers. Azimuthal angles (i.e., the horizontal orientation of the hammer) were computed at key instants, and weighted regression models were used to examine their associations with performance. Results revealed significant differences in azimuthal angle at the start of the double support phase, with higher-performing throws associated with earlier foot landing (p < 0.05). In male throwers, this pattern was also linked to an earlier initiation of the single support phase (p < 0.001). In female throwers, performance level was differentiated by azimuthal angles at the high and low vertical points of the trajectory (p < 0.05). These findings suggest that training should target dynamic balance to facilitate earlier support transitions and enhance angular control of the hammer's high and low points, as these spatiotemporal features are key determinants of elite performance.		[Cecchelli, Giuseppe; Slawinski, Jean] French Inst Sport INSEP, Sport Expertise & Performance Lab, Paris, France; [Cecchelli, Giuseppe; Poirier, Canelle; Vazel, Pierre-Jean; Lacourt, Baptiste] French Athlet Federat FFA, Paris, France; [Cecchelli, Giuseppe; Colloud, Floren] Univ Sorbonne Paris Nord, Arts & Metiers Inst Technol, IBHGC Inst Biomecan Humaine Georges Charpak, EPF Engn Sch, F-75013 Paris, France; [Cecchelli, Giuseppe] Univ Paris Cite, Paris, France; [Cecchelli, Giuseppe] Inst Natl Sport Expertise & Performance, 11 Ave Tremblay, F-75012 Paris, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001838654000001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kim, Sungmin; Moon, Jeheon								Classification of success/failure in weightlifting snatch using a machine learning model based on barbell kinematics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2379	2389		10.1177/17479541251353123			AUG 2026	2026	The purpose of this study was to classify and predict success and failure in weightlifting snatch lifts using the barbell kinematics through machine learning, and to identify the key factors that have the greatest impact on success and failure, contributing to performance improvement. Videos from the Korea National Weightlifting Championships from 2022 to 2024 were collected, involving weightlifters from weight classes (male: 55 similar to+109 kg; female: 45 similar to+87 kg). The data analyzed included 579 trials from male weightlifters and 472 trials from female weightlifters. Fifteen barbell kinematic variables were analyzed and classified into success and failure categories to extract classification accuracy of machine learning models through multicollinearity. A total of eight machine learning models were used in the analysis. And the most discriminative barbell kinematic variables were identified through feature importance analysis. The machine learning models' classification accuracy showed the Random Forest for males performed best at 77.72%, while the Support Vector Machine for females achieved 75.38%. For the male & female, the Random Forest achieved 80.77% accuracy. Feature importance analysis revealed dy3 (maximum height to the catch-vertical displacement) as the most significant for both genders, followed by pvV (peak vertical velocity) and dy2 (start to the catch-vertical displacement). In classifying success and failure in the weightlifting snatch lifts, the RF model showed the highest classification accuracy for the male and male & female groups, while the Support Vector Machine performed best for the female group. The dy3 variable had the greatest impact on classifying success and failure.		[Kim, Sungmin] Korea Natl Univ Educ, Inst Sch Phys Educ, Cheongju, South Korea; [Moon, Jeheon] Korea Natl Univ Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Cheongju, South Korea; [Moon, Jeheon] 250,Taeseongtabyeon Ro,Gangnae Myeon, Cheongju 28173, Chungcheongbuk, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001519694300001	32	Article; Article		
J	Stevenson, Scott W.								Training Considerations for the Bodybuilding Peak Week								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	4			487	495		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000938			AUG 2026	2026	The "peak week" (PW) is a common practice in the realm of competitive bodybuilding whereby training, diet, supplementation, and water/electrolyte intake (and/or even PED use in untested organizations; not discussed here) are coordinated in the 7-10 days before a competition to optimize (i.e., "peak") on-stage appearance. Because skillful posing constitutes the only actual physical performance requirement on the competitive stage, PW training strategies should at least ensure adequate recovery and preparation for this purpose. However, PW training should also be integrated into whichever traditional strategies might be used to maximize muscularity, for example, carbohydrate loading and/or manipulation of body water, as well as take into account that postexercise muscular inflammation could blur muscle definition on stage. This article describes the primary factors to consider when integrating training (resistance and endurance exercise as well as posing) into an individualized PW strategy designed to optimize the physique and posing during a bodybuilding competition.		[Stevenson, Scott W.] Integrat Bodybldg LLC, Naples, FL 34117 USA; [Stevenson, Scott W.] Integrat Bodybldg LLC, Naples, FL 34117 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001838719000009	99	Article; Article		
J	Trexler, Eric T.; Jagim, Andrew R.; Torres, Marcella; Potter, Nicholas D.; Ketterly, Jennifer; Kerkow-Provo, Zachary; Lane, Michael T.								Fat-Free Mass Accretion: Limits, Targets, and Best Practices								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	4			521	539		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000986			AUG 2026	2026	This review examines physiological limits, longitudinal projections, and best practices for muscle hypertrophy with a focus on bodybuilding and physique sport. Recurring body composition assessments using multicompartment models are recommended for monitoring short-term fat-free mass (FFM) changes and long-term muscular development. Normative data indicate that drug-free male athletes typically gain roughly 1.4 kg of FFM over 12 weeks of resistance training, with an interquartile range of 1-2 kg. A practical upper limit for FFM index in drug-free male athletes is approximately 28.5, although higher values have been observed in the context of elevated adiposity or anabolic androgenic steroid use. Female athletes tend to have roughly 70% less FFM at baseline but make proportionally similar FFM gains in response to resistance training. The present review models plausible short-term and long-term growth trajectories for both male and female lifters. Training practices that optimize hypertrophy include moderate loads (6-12 repetition maximum), training near muscular failure, and sufficient weekly volume (12-30 fractional sets per muscle group). Nutritional factors include maintaining modest caloric surpluses (0.1-0.25% body weight gain weekly), adequate protein intake (1.6-2.2 g/kg/d), sufficient carbohydrate intake (>= 3 g/kg/d), and moderate fat intake (0.5-1.5 g/kg/d). Creatine and protein supplementation provide established hypertrophic benefits, while evidence for other supplements remains inconclusive.		[Trexler, Eric T.] Duke Univ, Dept Hlth Wellness & Phys Educ, Durham, NC USA; [Trexler, Eric T.; Potter, Nicholas D.; Kerkow-Provo, Zachary] Duke Univ, Athlet Dept, Sports Sci Res & Innovat Div, Durham, NC USA; [Jagim, Andrew R.] Mayo Clin Hlth Syst, Sports Med, La Crosse, WI USA; [Torres, Marcella] Univ Richmond, Dept Math & Stat, Richmond, VA USA; [Potter, Nicholas D.] Duke Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Phys & Occupat Therapy, Durham, NC USA; [Ketterly, Jennifer] Duke Univ, Duke Sports Sci Inst, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Sports Med, Durham, NC USA; [Lane, Michael T.] Eastern Kentucky Univ, Dept Pk Recreat Exercise & Sport Sci, Richmond, KY 40475 USA; [Lane, Michael T.] Eastern Kentucky Univ, Dept Pk Recreat Exercise & Sport Sci, Richmond, KY 40475 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001838719000006	111	Article; Article		
J	Badger, Jack								Taxing Talent in Women's Sports: Evidence from the WNBA								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS											10.1177/15270025261474142				2026	This paper examines whether state income tax rates affect player salaries and competitive balance in the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA). The 2020 WNBA Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) increased player bargaining power by reducing barriers to player mobility and increasing maximum player salaries and team salary caps. I find that unrestricted free agents receive higher pre-tax salaries when signing with teams located in high-tax states, and this salary premium is comparable to effects found in men's leagues. Furthermore, teams located in states with higher tax rates have both lower winning percentages and rates of postseason success following the 2020 CBA. This study is the first to my knowledge examining the impact of income taxes on women's professional sports, and its findings contribute to ongoing debates about labor market frictions, tax incidence, and institutional constraints in women's professional sports.		[Badger, Jack] Middle Tennessee State Univ, Jones Coll Business, Accounting, Murfreesboro, TN USA; [Badger, Jack] Middle Tennessee State Univ, MTSU Box 50, Murfreesboro, TN 37132 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001837997500001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	McGuire, R.; Kilduff, L.; Waldron, M.; Mcnarry, M.; Drawer, S.; Buchanan, N.; Cropley, B.; Metcalfe, R. S.								Beyond the session plan: Adaptive planning in youth football academies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261470313				2026	High-quality planning and practice design are essential for effective youth development in football. However, limited research has explored how coaches approach planning beyond individual sessions, or how they integrate broader developmental frameworks. This study explored how coaches and senior academy staff in youth football academies plan and design training across time, and how these processes impact holistic player development. Ten staff members from EPPP Category 1 and 2 academies (or Scottish equivalents), including academy coaches, Heads of Coaching, Heads of Development, and Academy Managers, participated in semi-structured interviews. Thematic analysis, conducted from a pragmatist perspective, identified patterns in planning processes, influences, and practice design approaches. Findings suggest coaches engaged in complex, multi-level planning that extended beyond the micro-level to encompass curriculum design and long-term development aims. Planning was influenced by contextual and relational factors, including club philosophy, player needs, and coordination across age groups. Coaches sought to integrate the Four Corner Model and biopsycho-social principles, although application was shaped by their personal interpretation of learning, development, and practical constraints. Planning was iterative and collaborative, with nested structures aligning weekly, block, and seasonal goals. This study offers insight into real-world planning practices and highlights the need for adaptable frameworks that align developmental intent with applied realities in youth sport.		[McGuire, R.; Kilduff, L.; Waldron, M.; Mcnarry, M.; Metcalfe, R. S.] Swansea Univ, Fac Sci & Engn, Appl Sports Technol, Swansea SA2 8PP, Wales; Ipswich Town FC, Portman Rd, Suffolk, England; Millfield Sch, Somerset, England; [Drawer, S.; Buchanan, N.] Univ Edinburgh, Moray House Sch Educ & Sport, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Cropley, B.] Univ South Wales, Fac Life Sci & Educ, Treforest, Wales; [McGuire, R.] Swansea Univ, Fac Sci & Engn, Appl Sports Technol, Swansea SA2 8PP, Wales								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001837075500001	61	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bird, Ellis; Pocock, Chris; Day, Melissa								Training methods for elite youth climbers: A composite vignette of coaches' awareness, knowledge and practices								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261471817				2026	With the exponential growth of indoor climbing competitions, and recent Olympic status, there is an increased pressure on elite youth climbers, training methods, and balancing the dangers of epiphyseal fracture of the phalanges. However, little is known of coach awareness, knowledge, and practices of elite youth climbing training methods. The aim of the study was to explore coaches' current views on current awareness, knowledge, and practice within Elite Youth Climbers training methods. Ten elite climbing coaches with 15 +/- 12 years climbing coaching experience participated in semi-structured interviews, lasting 67 +/- 20 min, exploring their awareness, knowledge, and practices of youth training with elite climbers. Interviews were analysed using a reflexive thematic approach. Three composite vignettes were created from ten initial lower order themes to provide an insightful and rich account of coaching elite youth climbers. Coaches were aware of epiphyseal fracture risks in youth climbers and had different perspectives on appropriate training methods relative to training age. Coaches lacking in academic knowledge or less experienced working with elite youth climbers were unlikely to use training practices such as system boards, campus boards and finger boards compared to coaches with greater academic knowledge or more experience in the field. All coaches identified a need for updated training guidance in context of increased climbing standards for youth climbers and advances in coach education.		[Bird, Ellis; Pocock, Chris; Day, Melissa] Univ Chichester, Fac Hlth Sport & Engn, Chichester PO19 6PE, England; [Bird, Ellis] Univ Chichester, Fac Hlth Sport & Engn, Chichester PO19 6PE, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001837070900001	47	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Roberts, Brandon M.; Buckner, Samuel L.; Colenso-Semple, Lauren M.; Conlin, Laurin A.; Church, David D.; Campbell, Bill I.; De Souza, Eduardo O.; Gonzalez, Adam M.; Helms, Eric R.; Newmire, Daniel E.; Pearson, Jeremy R.; Tinsley, Grant M.; Trexler, Eric T.; Escalante, Guillermo								From Anecdote to Evidence: Dispelling Myths in Bodybuilding and Physique Sports								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	4			496	507		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000937			AUG 2026	2026	Bodybuilding and physique sports are often clouded by myths and misconceptions about training, nutrition, and supplements. This article examines some of the myths in the fitness community, including periodization for muscle growth, the belief that training to failure is required, and the idea that cardiovascular training impairs hypertrophy. In addition, this article covers misconceptions about nutritional strategies, such as the need for restrictive diets, the effectiveness of fasted cardiovascular training, and the importance of meal timing. The fear that women will become bulky from resistance training and the misclassification of creatine as a steroid are also addressed. Drawing on current scientific evidence, we demonstrate that progressive overload, intensity management, and flexible dieting are more effective and sustainable than other methods. Cardiovascular training, when properly integrated, does not hinder muscle growth, and women benefit from resistance training without developing excessive muscle mass. Creatine supplementation is validated as a safe and effective ergogenic aid and is distinct from anabolic steroids. By debunking and contextualizing these myths, this article provides bodybuilders and physique athletes with evidence-based training and nutrition strategies to optimize performance, support long-term health, and maximize results safely and efficiently.		[Roberts, Brandon M.] Lionel Univ, Carpinteria, CA 93013 USA; [Buckner, Samuel L.] Univ S Florida, Exercise Sci Program, USF Muscle Lab, Tampa, FL USA; [Colenso-Semple, Lauren M.] McMaster Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Conlin, Laurin A.; Campbell, Bill I.] Univ S Florida, Exercise Sci Program, Tampa, FL USA; [Church, David D.; Pearson, Jeremy R.] Univ Arkansas Med Sci, Ctr Translat Res Aging & Longev, Dept Geriatr, Little Rock, AR USA; [De Souza, Eduardo O.] Univ Tampa, Hlth Sci & Human Performance Dept, Tampa, FL USA; [Gonzalez, Adam M.] Hofstra Univ, Dept Allied Hlth & Kinesiol, Hempstead, NY USA; [Helms, Eric R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Helms, Eric R.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Res Lab, Boca Raton, FL USA; [Newmire, Daniel E.] Texas Womans Univ, Sch Hlth Promot & Kinesiol, Denton, TX USA; [Tinsley, Grant M.] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX USA; [Trexler, Eric T.] Duke Univ, Dept Evolutionary Anthropol, Durham, NC USA; [Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Coll Nat Sci, Dept Kinesiol, San Bernardino, CA USA; [Roberts, Brandon M.] Lionel Univ, Carpinteria, CA 93013 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001838719000002	109	Article; Article		
J	Palheta, Carlos Ewerton; Milistetd, Michel								Characterizing the formulation of a coach education program for teaching life skills through the behavior change wheel								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2010	2021		10.1177/17479541261422721			AUG 2026	2026	Coaches play an essential role in the development of sports skills and life skills. To support these outcomes, coach education programs are frequently formulated, but promoting effective behavioral changes in coaches remains a challenge. In this context, the Behavior Change Wheel can be a useful tool for characterizing coach education programs, highlighting how well they are designed to promote the essential components for behavior change. This study characterized a program aimed at training coaches to teach life skills in a Brazilian multi-sport club, although it also analyzed the organizational processes involved in its conception. Institutional documents were examined, and semi-structured interviews were conducted with five managers involved in the formulation of the program. The thematic analysis allowed for the identification of categories associated with the components of the Behavior Change Wheel. The results demonstrate that the model can be used to characterize coach education programs, highlighting their strengths and limitations in promoting behavioral changes. The findings emphasize the importance of careful planning and suggest that future research investigate the effectiveness of these initiatives, contributing to the development of more effective strategies in coach education.		[Palheta, Carlos Ewerton; Milistetd, Michel] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sport Pedag Res Ctr NuPPE, Sch Sports, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Palheta, Carlos Ewerton] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Nucleo Pesquisa Pedag Esporte, UFSC Campus Trindade,Ave Cesar Seara-Carvoeira, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001731441800001	57	Article; Article		
J	Haubenstricker, John E.; Roberts, Brandon M.								Top 5 Dietary Supplements for Bodybuilders								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	4			424	434		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000925			AUG 2026	2026	Dietary supplement use is quite prevalent among bodybuilders to enhance their physiques for competition. Many of the dietary supplements used by these athletes are neither safe nor effective. Several reviews have been published detailing the efficacy of dietary supplements for athletes; however, none have been written specifically for bodybuilders and physique athletes. Therefore, the aim of this article is to provide an evidence-based review of the top 5 dietary supplements for bodybuilding competitors: creatine, caffeine, protein powders, free-form essential amino acids, and beta-alanine. This review will provide bodybuilders, coaches, and practitioners with information on each supplement's mechanism of action, seasonal benefits, protocol for use, and special considerations to optimize supplement strategies for performance, physique, and overall competitive success.		[Haubenstricker, John E.] Stricker Elite Performance Syst, San Diego, CA 92101 USA; [Roberts, Brandon M.] Lionel Univ, Carpinteria, CA USA; [Haubenstricker, John E.] Stricker Elite Performance Syst, San Diego, CA 92101 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001838719000012	151	Article; Article		
J	Escalante, Guillermo; St Mart, Dean; Caseri Camara, Lucas								Potential Cardiovascular Considerations of Androgenic Anabolic Steroid Abuse for Enhanced Bodybuilding and Physique Competitors								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	4			463	473		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000931			AUG 2026	2026	Use of androgenic anabolic steroids (AAS) among male and female fitness enthusiasts, noncompetitive physique athletes, and competitive physique athletes has been increasing and is a public health concern. Specifically, among physique competitors, research indicates that the use of AAS is significantly higher than the general population. AAS abuse has been associated with various side effects, including the cardiovascular system. As such, the purpose of this narrative review was to discuss the potential long-term and short-term cardiovascular effects of AAS abuse such as cardiac hypertrophy, dyslipidemia, erythrocytosis, systolic and diastolic dysfunction, and hypertension that are associated with AAS abuse. Moreover, the article discusses confounding factors that lead to deleterious cardiovascular side effects and potential strategies that can be implemented by AAS users to try to mitigate the risks.		[Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Coll Nat Sci, Kinesiol, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA; [St Mart, Dean] Supplement Needs Hub, Poole, England; [Caseri Camara, Lucas] FGE SP, Coll Governance Engn & Educ Sao Paulo, Dept Specializat Clin Anabolism, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Coll Nat Sci, Kinesiol, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001838719000008	104	Article; Article		
J	Righi, Isabella; Barroso, Renato								Menstrual cycle phases affect recovery more than performance in trained cyclists								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2182	2191		10.1177/17479541251407281			AUG 2026	2026	This study investigated the influence of menstrual cycle (MC) phases on psychophysiological responses and recovery following high-intensity interval training (HIIT) in trained female cyclists. Ten eumenorrheic cyclists visited the laboratory 5 times. The first visit took place during the early folicular phase, when participants were bleeding, they completed an incremental test and familiarized with HIIT. The remaining four visits were divided into two sets of consecutive-day sessions, late folicular phase (LFP), between the period of menstrual pause and before ovulation, or late luteal phase (LLP) one week after ovulation. On HIIT sessions, participants answered total quality of recovery (TQR) and Well-being, performed a 3-min test pre- and post-HIIT. The perception of exertion effort (RPE) was related during the HIIT too. On time trial test (TT) sessions, participants answered TQR and Well-being and performed a 20-km TT. Absolute power output during HIIT was similar between MC phases; however, when normalized by the critical power (CP), relative to critical power (%CP) was higher in LFP (p < 0.05). Mean heart rate (HR) and %HR did not differ. There was no between phase and within-session difference in CP. Time to complete the TT was shorter during LFP. There was a large effect size in TQR in HIIT-LFP compared to HIIT-LLP (1.00) and in TT-LFP compared to TT-LLP (0.89). TQR was higher in LFP compared to LLP (p < 0.05) during the HIIT and TT. In conclusion, this study provides evidence that the MC phase has minimal diferences in performance (%CP), no difference in short-term recovery but has impaired performance in 24-h recovery in LLP.		[Righi, Isabella; Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Av Erico Verissimo,701, BR-13083851 Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Av Erico Verissimo,701, BR-13083851 Campinas, SP, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001658380200001	58	Article; Article		
J	Pellet, Julien; Mendoza, Lucas; Campo, Mickael								Social identity influences emotions even in individual sports: A preliminary study in tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2338	2346		10.1177/17479541251382723			AUG 2026	2026	Literature on social identity in sports has predominantly focused on collective sports, exploring how such environments enhance group belongingness. Shifting this focus, our study investigates social identity within the context of an individual sport. Utilizing the Social Identity Approach (SIA), we aim to elucidate the intricate interplay between personal and social identities in an individual sports setting, specifically examining how this dynamic affects performance and elicits emotions. Fifteen tennis players (Mage = 22.33; SDage = 4.48; women = 3) volunteered to participate. Using a methodology based on Campo et al. 1 and employing the mouse-tracking paradigm, we collected a total of 28,984 measures (M = 1932.27 +/- 669.73 per participant) for each emotional and identity variable. Linear mixed models revealed that both personal and social identities positively predict pleasant emotions and positively influence each other. These findings confirm the significant role of social identity in shaping emotional experiences, contrasting with earlier research on team sports by highlighting the positive impact of personal identity in individual sports. The study discusses the underlying processes and cultural determinants contributing to these results, with a particular emphasis on the concept of social identity complexity.		[Pellet, Julien; Mendoza, Lucas; Campo, Mickael] Univ Bourgogne Europe, Fac Sci Sport, Psy DREPI UR 7458, 3 Allee Stades Univ,BP 27 877, Dijon 21078, France; [Campo, Mickael] Federat Francaise Rugby, Sport Psychol Dept Pole PMAS, Massy, France; [Pellet, Julien] Univ Bourgogne Europe, Fac Sci Sport, Psy DREPI UR 7458, 3 Allee Stades Univ,BP 27 877, Dijon 21078, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001581885700001	67	Article; Article		
J	Dideriksen, Sofie; Henriksen, Kristoffer; Stambulova, Natalia; Storm, Louise Kamuk								Competent cultural leadership in youth sport: A modified delphi study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2168	2181		10.1177/17479541251378032			AUG 2026	2026	Research into the social environment in youth sport has identified the characteristics of well-functioning social processes, structures, and group culture, and has shown how coaches have a special role as a cultural leader. This study is designed as a modified Delphi study with three aims: (a) identify cultural leadership competencies that are needed for coaches working in youth sport contexts, (b) rank the competencies relative to each other, and (c) define what competent cultural leadership in youth sport is. Data were collected in Denmark among expert coach educators, and analysis was an iterative process consisting of three rounds of qualitative (four focus group interviews) and quantitative investigations (questionnaire 1 and questionnaire 2). Cultural leadership competences have three domains: knowledge, skills, and attitudes. Knowledge about youth sport environments, skills to create an inclusive environment, and a committed, present and trustworthy attitude - all reached 100% consensus rate. Competent cultural leadership (with 94% consensus rate) was finally defined as a specific process of facilitating, maintaining and, where necessary, changing norms and values to ensure a quality youth sport environment; such process involves helping young athletes to build trusting relationships and feel connected to the environment and requires the cultural leader to communicate clearly about norms and values and reflect on their own and others' values and behaviors. The study contributes to contemporary literature on the leadership role of a youth sport coach.		[Dideriksen, Sofie; Henriksen, Kristoffer; Storm, Louise Kamuk] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Campusvej 55, DK-5230 Odense, Denmark; [Stambulova, Natalia] Halmstad Univ, Sch Hlth & Welf, Halmstad, Sweden; [Dideriksen, Sofie] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Campusvej 55, DK-5230 Odense, Denmark								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001574813400001	55	Article; Article		
J	Ross, Steven; Ripley, Nicholas J.; Comfort, Paul								Practices and perceptions in hamstring training for injury prevention and enhancement of athletic performance: A qualitative analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2414	2424		10.1177/17479541251374792			AUG 2026	2026	Hamstring strain injuries (HSIs) remain a prevalent issue across sports, despite extensive research. Previously, the current authors have reported practices and perceptions of training for the mitigation of HSIs, however such practices are highly nuanced. In this study, the authors utilised semi-structured interviews to further understand applied practitioner perceptions and identify how evidence is translated into practice. Twelve practitioners (one physiotherapist and eleven strength and conditioning [S&C] coaches including one dual accredited S&C coach and physiotherapist) working in a range of sporting disciplines were interviewed across six broad categories of questioning (practitioner profile, job role challenges, resistance training, high-speed running training, athlete testing and monitoring and views on contemporary research). Thematic analyses highlighted key challenges relating to limited time spent with athletes, fixture schedules and planning of training across the broader multidisciplinary team (MDT) as well as strategies to deal with such challenges such as micro-dosing of the resistance training stimulus, utilisation of isometric exercise during fixture congestion periods. However, analyses also highlighted some areas of research that are not well translated into practice such as recommendations for the use of low-volumes of the Nordic hamstring exercise to elicit positive adaptations in strength and repeated bout effects and minimal effective dosages for resistance training. The findings of the study highlight the need for continued athlete and practitioner education, better communication and planning in the MDT and further research into minimum effective dosages to elicit strength adaptation in elite level athletes.		[Ross, Steven; Ripley, Nicholas J.; Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, England; [Comfort, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Strength & Power Res Grp, Joondalup, Australia; [Ross, Steven] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001570289600001	41	Article; Article		
J	Jaeger, Johannes; Rumpf, Michael C.; Lochmann, Matthias								The influence of relative pitch size on external load in professional men's soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2231	2240		10.1177/17479541251375317			AUG 2026	2026	This study aimed to investigate the influence of relative pitch size on external load parameters in professional soccer players during small-sided games (SSGs). Twenty-four professional male soccer players from the Greek first division participated in SSGs conducted over an eight-week period. The games were played on pitches of varying relative sizes (ranging from 45 to 184.62 m(2) per player), using two mini goals per side and a two-touch play restriction. External load metrics were recorded using by GPS units and included: (1) total distance covered; (2) high-intensity distance (>= 15 km/h); (3) high-speed running distance (>= 19.8 km/h); (4) distance covered within four predefined speed zones - Zone 3 (10.8-14.4 km/h), Zone 4 (14.5-19.8 km/h), Zone 5 (19.9-25.5 km/h), and Zone 6 (>25.5 km/h); (5) number of sprints; and (6) the number of accelerations and decelerations categorized as low (0-2.9 m/s(2)), moderate (3.0-3.9 m/s(2) or -3.0 to -3.9 m/s(2)), and high (>4.0 m/s(2) or < -4.0 m/s(2)). Generalized linear mixed models revealed positive associations between relative pitch size and all running-related load variables (beta(Range) = 0.004 to 0.033, p < 0.05). Inverse relationships were observed for all acceleration bands and most deceleration bands (beta(Range) = -0.001 to -0.011, p < 0.05), except for high-intensity decelerations (p = 0.374). Relative pitch size is a moderating factor for the external load in professional soccer players during SSGs. Increasing the relative pitch size can be used to augment external load, particularly by elevating running demands, whereas acceleration and deceleration activities are comparatively less influenced.		[Jaeger, Johannes; Rumpf, Michael C.; Lochmann, Matthias] Friedrich Alexander Univ, Inst Sport Sci & Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Med, Gebbertstr 123b, D-91058 Erlangen, Germany; [Rumpf, Michael C.] Footballsci Net, Dreieich, Germany; [Rumpf, Michael C.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Jaeger, Johannes] Friedrich Alexander Univ, Inst Sport Sci & Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Med, Gebbertstr 123b, D-91058 Erlangen, Germany								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001569091400001	47	Article; Article		
J	Morganti, Gabriele; Brustio, Paolo R.; Apollaro, Gennaro; Strassoldo Di Villanova, Francesca; Vitarelli, Matteo; Padua, Elvira; Ruscello, Bruno; Kelly, Adam L.								Exploring birthplace effects in Italian male football: Local talent yield and structural characteristics across provinces								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261471818				2026	Research in Italian football presented geospatial variations in successful talent development pathways. However, little is known about how communities' characteristics are associated with these outcomes. Accordingly, this study aimed to examine the local talent yield in football (the relative rate of players entering senior professional football) for each Italian province and its association with structural characteristics. The birthplace of Italian-born players who have received at least one call-up from a Serie A club during at least one of the six seasons (2018-19, 2019-20, 2020-21, 2021-22, 2022-23, 2023-24) was recorded, and provinces' population density, socioeconomic status (SES), cultural diversity, and the presence and level of success of professional football (i.e., professional football index) were collected. Univariate and bivariate analyses (i.e., chi-square test-for-independence and Kruskal-Wallis tests) revealed that Northern and Central provinces, as well as those with higher population density, SES, cultural diversity, and professional football index, were significantly associated with higher local talent yields (p from <.001 to .02). Multivariate analysis (i.e., ordinal regression model) highlighted that provinces' structural characteristics accounted for 23.1% of the variance in the dependent variable (Nagelkerke R2 = .231, p < .001), with higher SES and professional football index which significantly increased the likelihood of scoring higher local talent yields (ORs = 2.53 and 1.89, respectively). Overall, findings confirmed the geographical polarization of Italian football (i.e., North vs. South) and supported theoretical accounts on birth advantages, underlining structural characteristics at the community level associated with different rates of entry into Italian professional football.		[Morganti, Gabriele; Strassoldo Di Villanova, Francesca; Vitarelli, Matteo; Padua, Elvira; Ruscello, Bruno] San Raffaele Roma Open Univ, Dept Human Sci & Promot Qual Life, I-00166 Rome, Italy; [Morganti, Gabriele; Kelly, Adam L.] Birmingham City Univ, Fac Hlth, Ctr Life & Sport Sci CLaSS, Res Athlete & Youth Sport Dev RAYSD Lab, Birmingham, England; [Brustio, Paolo R.] Univ Turin, Dept Clin & Biol Sci, Turin, Italy; [Apollaro, Gennaro] Univ Genoa, Dept Neurosci Rehabil Ophthalmol Genet & Maternal, Genoa, Italy; [Vitarelli, Matteo] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement, Verona, Italy; [Ruscello, Bruno] Tor Vergata Univ, Fac Engn, Dept Ind Engn, Rome, Italy; [Ruscello, Bruno] LUISS Univ, LUISS SportLab, Rome, Italy; [Morganti, Gabriele] San Raffaele Roma Open Univ, Dept Human Sci & Promot Qual Life, I-00166 Rome, Italy								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001837766300001	80	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ito, Akiko; Kigoshi, Kiyonobu								Monitoring morning heart rate variability in an elite female long jumper with ulcerative colitis during the build-up to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics: A 58-week case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261462352				2026	This case study describes longitudinal morning heart rate variability (HRV) and its relationship with ulcerative colitis (UC)-related events in an elite female long jumper with UC over 58 weeks. Morning HRV was self-measured for 3 min supine using a Polar H10 sensor and the Elite HRV application. The natural logarithm of the root mean square of successive differences (LnRMSSD), its 7-day rolling mean (LnRMSSD rolling), and the coefficient of variation of LnRMSSD (CV LnRMSSD) were calculated. Training Load was quantified using the session-rating of perceived exertion method, subjective condition was assessed using Hooper's score, and a smallest worthwhile change (SWC) band aided interpretation of short-term HRV changes. LnRMSSD rolling fell below the SWC band during the Germany-based period (weeks 18-31), around the Asian Athletics Championships in Qatar (weeks 40-41), and during part of the pre-hospitalization period. Prior to hospitalization (week 50), LnRMSSD was lower during the second half of monitoring and declined stepwise from the 2019 competition phase to pre-hospitalization, with a further drop and increased CV LnRMSSD immediately before hospitalization. Training Load and Hooper's score did not show progressive increases across the pre-hospitalization period. Morning HRV may offer useful complementary information for conditioning and decision-making when interpreted alongside Training Load, subjective condition, self-reported UC-related symptoms, and competitive context. Although morning HRV is not a diagnostic marker of clinical UC activity, this case study provides, to our knowledge, the first longitudinal description of HRV changes in relation to fluctuations in condition in an elite athlete with UC.		[Ito, Akiko] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Ito, Akiko] CERESPO CO LTD, Toshima, Tokyo, Japan; [Kigoshi, Kiyonobu] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Kigoshi, Kiyonobu] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001836813000001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bai, Jie; Liu, Jianfeng								Constructing control and confidence: Discursive strategies of coaches in high-stakes competitive sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261470030				2026	The practice of coaching communication in competitive sports has traditionally been examined as the flow of information and not as a discursive strategy that can influence the psychological conditions of athletes. This study uses critical discourse analysis and interactional sociolinguistics to analyze how coaches create a sense of control, assign responsibility, and manage emotions in high-stakes situations. Episodes occurring naturally, such as 42 team talks, 38 halftime speeches, and 67 timeout huddles of the top-level football, basketball, and handball in Germany, Norway, and Denmark (2023-2024) were sampled. Five strategies were identified during the analysis: military metaphors, pronoun changes, externalization discourse, moral framing, and temporal reframing. Coaches used inclusive we when there was success (78%), distancing you when there was failure (64%), and military metaphors were used more under high pressure (71% vs.34%). The agency of problem-solving was diminished through externalization, creating incoherent and conflicting athlete subject positions as free will subjects as well as submissive agents. This study shows that confidence, anxiety, and motivation are interaction ally constructed, which contributes to advances in methodological rigor in the sport communication literature.		[Bai, Jie] Huanghe Jiaotong Univ, Dept Publ Phys Educ, Wuzhi, Peoples R China; [Liu, Jianfeng] Univ Catol San Antonio Murcia, Murcia 30107, Spain; [Liu, Jianfeng] Univ Catol San Antonio Murcia, Murcia 30107, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001836812200001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Magill, Fiona; Baker, Joseph; Tremblay, Luc								Whose Side Are You On? Observing the Influence of Perceptual and Motor Experience on Soccer Passes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2698416				2026	Successful athletes become highly skilled at encoding body movements to predict sport-specific projectile trajectories. Such predictive ability appears to be related to sidedness, arguably exacerbated by the likelihood of interacting with right-versus left-sided kinematic information. Notably, asymmetries in such perceptual biases have not been examined from a temporal perspective, which is critical due to the spatiotemporal nature of many sport skills. We hypothesized that implementing a sport-specific motor task would reveal reduced rightward bias in left-footed soccer players compared to previous studies, as perceptual and motor experience would influence predictive ability. Experienced left-and right-footed soccer players (n = 28) completed a pass-return task, wherein they watched videoed passers (left-or right-footed) kicking a ball toward them at 3 different speeds. Participants passed a soccer ball to one of three possible targets; they were asked to be as accurate as possible regarding the temporal onset and the endpoint spatial accuracy of their kick. Videos of the passer were occluded at ball contact to emphasize the encoding of kicking kinematics. A 3-factor ANOVA first revealed overall shorter response times when watching right-versus left-footed passers F(1, 26) = 13.60, p = .001, eta(2)(p) = .34. Yet, right-footed participants exhibited more asymmetric timing between the passer's footedness at slow versus fast speeds (p < .001). Such findings suggest that temporal projectile prediction ability in experienced soccer players is driven by perceptual familiarity as well as motor experience.		[Magill, Fiona; Baker, Joseph; Tremblay, Luc] Univ Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Tremblay, Luc] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Perceptual Motor Behav Lab, 55 Harbord St, Toronto, ON M5S 2W6, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001837768700001	48	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Maia, Filipe; Sauce, Guy; Ferreira, Joao Francisco; Batista, Jorge; Pimenta, Ricardo; Tito, Sandro; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo								Acute and Short-Term Neuromuscular and Perceptual Responses to Isometric vs. Dynamic Strength Training in Youth Soccer Players: A Randomized Crossover Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2709598				2026	This study aimed to compare the short-term neuromuscular impairments resulting from a single session of isometric and dynamic strength training in youth soccer players. Twenty-one male youth soccer players (aged 16.8 +/- 0.9 years) participated in this counterbalanced crossover trial, and were randomly assigned to a training sequence, starting with either a dynamic (3 sets of 4 repetitions of squats and deadlifts at 75% and 80% of 1RM, respectively) or an isometric training session (3 sets of 4 maximal 4-second repetitions of isometric squats and mid-thigh pulls) with protocols standardized for the number of exercises, sets, repetitions, and recovery intervals. A one-week washout period was allowed before participants switched training conditions. A repeated-measures ANOVA was used to assess the differences in countermovement jump (CMJ) height, bar velocity during half-squats, and perceived soreness and fatigue across different time points (baseline, 30 minutes, and 24 hours post-exercise). CMJ height was significantly greater in the isometric condition 30 minutes post-exercise compared to the dynamic condition (d = 0.71; p < .001). Additionally, the isometric condition exhibited significantly higher bar velocity 24 hours post-exercise (d = 0.69; p < .001). While no significant differences were detected in perceived soreness between groups at any time point, perceived fatigue was significantly reduced in the isometric condition at the 24-hour mark (d = 0.70; p < .05). These findings suggest that dynamic strength training may impair neuromuscular function to a greater extent than isometric training.		[Maia, Filipe; Sauce, Guy; Batista, Jorge; Pimenta, Ricardo; Tito, Sandro; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Maia, Maia, Portugal; [Maia, Filipe; Ferreira, Joao Francisco; Pimenta, Ricardo] Maia Polytech Inst IPMAIA, Maia, Portugal; [Pimenta, Ricardo] Futebol Clube Famalicao Futebol SAD, Vila Nova De Famalicao, Portugal; [Pimenta, Ricardo; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Football Sci Inst, Granada, Spain; [Tito, Sandro] Sporting Clube Braga SAD, Braga, Portugal; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil; [Maia, Filipe] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Av Carlos Oliveira Campos, P-4475690 Maia, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001835996700001	49	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lee, Unjong; De Meester, An; Brian, Ali								Physical Activity in Early Childhood: Associations With Actual Motor Competence, Perceived Motor Competence, and Enjoyment in Physical Education								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2708355				2026	Physical activity (PA) in early childhood offers health and developmental benefits, yet many children engage in insufficient PA. This study examined associations among actual motor competence (AMC), perceived motor competence (PMC), enjoyment in physical education (PE), and PA, and identified factors associated with PA among preschool-aged children. A convenience sample of young children (N = 51; 49% boys; M-age = 59.4 months) from a U.S. early childhood center participated in this descriptive-correlational study. AMC was assessed using the Test of Gross Motor Development-Third Edition, PMC using the Pictorial Scale of Perceived Movement Skill Competence, enjoyment in PE using a developmentally appropriate five-point Likert scale, and PA was operationalized as moderate-to-vigorous PA measured using ActiGraph accelerometers. Spearman's correlation analyses revealed a positive association between AMC and PA (rho = 0.45, p < .001). No significant associations were found between PMC and PA or between enjoyment in PE and PA. Multiple regression analyses indicated only AMC was significantly associated with PA. These findings suggest that AMC may be associated with PA in early childhood and that relationships among AMC, PMC, and enjoyment may not yet be fully established. Future research with larger and more diverse samples is needed.		[Lee, Unjong] Seoul Natl Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [De Meester, An; Brian, Ali] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC USA; [Brian, Ali] Univ South Carolina, Dept Educ & Dev Sci, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001835996300001	71	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Xie, Boyuan; Lei, Siman; Choi, Siu Ming; Wong, Soi Po; Choi, Ngai; Wang, Xiuqiang								Effect of In-Season Plyometric Training on Lower Body Explosive Power, Change of Direction Ability, and Functional Movement Quality in Collegiate Basketball Players: A Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2708357				2026	To determine the effects of an 8-week in-season plyometric training (PT) program on lower-body explosive power, change-of-direction (COD) ability, and functional movement quality in collegiate basketball players. Sixty-four university basketball players were recruited, stratified by gender, and randomly assigned to a plyometric training group (PTG) or control group (CG); 56 completers (20.9 +/- 2.1 years) were included in the per-protocol analysis. The PTG completed two progressive PT sessions per week across adaptation, stabilization, and realization phases, whereas the CG completed time-matched technical shooting drills. Outcomes included the Squat Jump (SJ), Countermovement Jump (CMJ), Agility T-test, 505 COD test, and Functional Movement Screen (FMS). Compared with the CG, the PTG improved all physical performance outcomes (all p < .001), with large Group & times; Time effects, for SJ (eta(2)(p) = .26), CMJ (eta(2)(p) = .39), Agility T-test (eta(2)(p) = .33), and 505 COD (eta(2)(p) = .40). Adjusted between-group differences favored the PTG for SJ (6.69 cm, 95% CI [3.55, 9.82]), CMJ (7.97 cm, 95% CI [5.16, 10.79]), Agility T-test (-0.89 s, 95% CI [-1.26, -0.53]), and 505 COD (-0.59 s, 95% CI [-0.80, -0.39]). A significant Group & times; Time & times; Gender interaction was observed for FMS (eta(2)(p) = .11, p = .017). Sensitivity analyses showed higher post-intervention FMS scores in the PTG for males (2.21 points, 95% CI [0.79, 3.63]) and females (5.42 points, 95% CI [4.15, 6.70]). Periodized in-season PT improved explosive power and COD ability and may attenuate female-specific declines in functional movement quality.		[Xie, Boyuan; Lei, Siman; Choi, Siu Ming; Wong, Soi Po] Univ Macau, Macau, Peoples R China; [Choi, Ngai; Wang, Xiuqiang] Shanghai Jiao Tong Univ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Lei, Siman] Univ Macau, Fac Educ, Ave Univ, Taipa 999078, Macao, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001835990800001	76	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	He, Zhanyang; Su, Sujing; Ye, Binyong; Liu, Jiawei; Chen, Gongpeng; Shen, Cuimei; Liu, Gongju; Zhu, Houwei								Acute effects of resisted and assisted activation on 50-m freestyle swimming performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261468550				2026	Previous research has shown that resisted and assisted sprint training can acutely enhance sprint performance via post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE). However, whether PAPE induced by conditioning activities that closely resemble sport-specific movements occurs in aquatic environments remains unclear. This study investigated the acute effects of resisted and assisted swimming activation on 50-m freestyle performance. Thirteen male collegiate swimmers completed a randomized, counterbalanced, repeated-measures design involving three warm-up conditions: standard warm-up (SWU), resisted swimming activation (RSA; 10-m maximal sprint with 8% body-mass load), and assisted swimming activation (ASA; 40-m maximal sprint at 103% maximal velocity). Compared with the other warm-up protocols, RSA significantly reduced split times over 5-10 m (p = 0.017, ES = 0.061) and 15-20 m (p < 0.001, ES = 0.188), and was associated with greater stroke length at 15 m (p = 0.001, ES = 0.188) and higher swimming velocity (p = 0.026, ES = 0.148). In contrast, ASA significantly reduced split time over 30-35 m (p = 0.003, ES = 0.191), but resulted in lower stroke length (p < 0.010, ES = 0.151) and swimming velocity (p < 0.001, ES = 0.199) at 25 m compared with the other warm-up conditions. RSA appears to preferentially enhance early race performance, whereas ASA may facilitate mid-race speed maintenance with limited overall benefit.		[He, Zhanyang] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Su, Sujing; Liu, Jiawei; Chen, Gongpeng; Zhu, Houwei] Zhejiang Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Jinhua, Peoples R China; [Ye, Binyong] Macao Polytech Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Sports, Macau, Peoples R China; [Shen, Cuimei] Shanghai Univ Finance & Econ, Zhejiang Coll, Dept Business Adm, Jinhua, Peoples R China; [Liu, Gongju] Zhejiang Coll Sports, Key Lab Aquat Sports Sci, Gen Adm Sport, Hangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Houwei] 688 Yingbin Ave, Jinhua, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001835478700001	47	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tsukahara, Yuka; Torii, Suguru; Taniguchi, Yukiko; Murakami, Hideki; Yamasawa, Fumihiro; Akama, Takao; Macznik, Aleksandra								Injury prevalence and risk factors in national-level female sprinters-6-month prospective observational study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2704482				2026	Objectives: This prospective cohort observational study aimed to describe the prevalence of injuries among national-level female sprinters and to explore associations between event types (curved versus straight line) and other relevant factors.<br /> Method: A total of 81 Japanese female sprinters competing at the national level participated in this study, of whom 41 (50.6%) specialized in straight-line events. The Oslo Sports Trauma Research Center overuse injury questionnaire was distributed every other week for 6 months (overall response rate was 46.2%). Additionally, athletes completed a survey and performed a single-leg squat test once at the beginning.<br /> Results: During the 6 months, 39 athletes (48.2%) experienced at least one substantial health problem, with 90% of these being injuries. Athletes with substantial health problems were significantly taller, slept less, and had more often specialized in curved events. Logistic regression analysis revealed shorter sleep duration was associated with higher odds of sustaining a substantial injury (OR = 0.60, 95% CI 0.37-0.97, p = 0.04). Furthermore, athletes specializing in straight-line events had a lower risk of substantial injuries compared to those specializing in curved events (OR = 0.19, 95% CI 0.06-0.60, p <0.01).<br /> Conclusion: Limited sleep and specialization in curved events were significant risk factors for substantial injuries among national-level female sprinters. These findings highlight potentially important factors for injury monitoring and prevention strategies in sprint athletes, while reflecting associations observed within this cohort.		[Tsukahara, Yuka; Macznik, Aleksandra] Tokyo Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports Med, Tokyo, Japan; [Tsukahara, Yuka] Waseda Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Japan; [Tsukahara, Yuka; Akama, Takao] Univ Iowa, Dept Family Med & Community Hlth, 200 Hawkind Dr, Iowa City, IA 52242 USA; [Torii, Suguru] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Japan; [Taniguchi, Yukiko] Japanese Red Cross Kyoto Daini Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Kyoto, Japan; [Murakami, Hideki] Nagoya City Univ, Grad Sch Med Sci, Dept Orthoped Surg, Nagoya, Japan; [Yamasawa, Fumihiro] Japan Assoc Athlet Federat JAAF, Med Comm, Tokyo, Japan; [Tsukahara, Yuka] Univ Iowa, Dept Family Med & Community Hlth, 200 Hawkind Dr, Iowa City, IA 52242 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001834435400001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Abbasi, Amir Zaib; Mirza, Farhan; Ali, Laiba; Rather, Raouf Ahmad; Ting, Ding Hooi								Bridging satisfaction and loyalty in esports: the mediating role of consumer engagement states through ECT/SET perspectives								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-02-2025-0054				2026	Purpose This study addresses a critical gap in the literature by exploring the mediating mechanisms that explain how satisfaction drives sustained player loyalty in the esports context. Grounded in expectancy confirmation theory (ECT) and social exchange theory (SET), we propose a model examining how the dimensions of consumer esports engagement (cognitive, affective and behavioral) mediate the relationship between satisfaction and loyalty. ECT grounds satisfaction as the evaluative outcome of confirmed gameplay expectations; SET explains why that satisfaction motivates reciprocal engagement investment. Together, these theories offer a theoretically coherent and internally consistent explanation of how satisfaction is transformed into loyalty through engagement, providing novel insights for esports practitioners and researchers. Design/methodology/approach The proposed model is tested using partial least squares-structural equation modelling with 290 valid responses from esports gamers within Malaysia. Findings The findings revealed that satisfaction positively influenced cognitive, affective and behavioral engagement. However, only affective and behavioral engagement positively impacted loyalty. Furthermore, consumer esports engagement dimensions mediated the satisfaction-loyalty relationship. Practical implications Our findings offer actionable guidance for esports developers and marketers by emphasizing the role of affective and behavioral engagement in fostering player loyalty. Developers can enhance emotional engagement through compelling narratives or personalized gameplay, while marketers can drive behavioral engagement via tiered rewards for tournament participation or community involvement. These strategies align with the identified satisfaction-engagement-loyalty link, offering practical solutions to boost retention and strengthen community bonds within esports ecosystems. Originality/value This study contributes to the broader understanding of loyalty formation by integrating multi-dimensional consumer esports engagement states (cognitive, affective and behavioral) within an integrated ECT/SET framework. By examining the mediating role of consumer esports engagement dimensions in the satisfaction-loyalty relationship, we offer a nuanced perspective on gamer behavior in the rapidly evolving esports industry.		[Abbasi, Amir Zaib; Ali, Laiba; Rather, Raouf Ahmad] King Fahd Univ Petr & Minerals, Ctr Finance & Digital Econ, KFUPM Business Sch, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia; [Mirza, Farhan; Ting, Ding Hooi] Univ Teknol PETRONAS, Dept Management, Seri Iskandar, Malaysia; [Abbasi, Amir Zaib; Rather, Raouf Ahmad] King Fahd Univ Petr & Minerals, Ctr Finance & Digital Econ, KFUPM Business Sch, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001830499400001	123	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Namhong, Supitra; Kim, Kyung-Min; Nanbancha, Ampika; Limroongreungrat, Weerawat								Reduced ankle muscle activity under cognitive loads in individuals with chronic ankle instability: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101967	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101967			SEP 2026	2026	Objectives: To investigate the influence of cognitive demands on postural stability and ankle muscle activity during static and dynamic postural control in individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Participants: 21 individuals with CAI (age = 21.7 +/- 1.5 years) Main outcome measures: Postural stability was assessed using time-to-boundary (TTB) measures and normalized reach distances from the modified Star Excursion Balance Test (mSEBT). Ankle muscle activity was evaluated using integrated electromyography (iEMG) from tibialis anterior (TA), peroneus longus (PL), medial gastrocnemius (MG), and soleus muscles (SL). Results: No significant differences in postural stability were observed between single- and dual-task conditions. However, ankle muscle activity significantly decreased under dual-task conditions. Specifically, MG (P = 0.002) and SL (P = 0.009) activity decreased during eyes-open static postural control. During dynamic postural control, TA activity decreased in posteromedial (P = 0.010) and posterolateral (P = 0.007) reaches, while PL decreased in posterolateral reach (P = 0.038). Concurrent cognitive performance did not differ significantly across postural tasks. Conclusion: Cognitive loading reduced ankle muscle activity without impairing postural stability, suggesting that cognitive loading influences neuromuscular responses during postural control in individuals with CAI. These findings highlight the importance of considering cognitive demands during postural control assessment.		[Namhong, Supitra; Nanbancha, Ampika; Limroongreungrat, Weerawat] Mahidol Univ, Coll Sports Sci & Technol, 999 Puthamonthon 4 Rd, Nakhon Pathom 73170, Thailand; [Kim, Kyung-Min] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Limroongreungrat, Weerawat] Mahidol Univ, Coll Sports Sci & Technol, 999 Puthamonthon 4 Rd, Nakhon Pathom 73170, Thailand								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001834924800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Zhao, Zuoxian; Barkell, James F.								Exploring the experiences of retired elite Chinese swimmers transitioning into coaching								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261467946				2026	This study explores the experiences of retired elite Chinese swimmers transitioning into coaching roles. Ten participants coaching swimming in national affiliated centres, schools, or private clubs took part in semi-structured interviews to discuss their transition. Data were analysed using Braun and Clarke's six-phase approach to reflexive thematic analysis and the analysis was informed by Wylleman's Holistic Athletic Career Model and C & ocirc;t & eacute; and Gilbert's Coaching Effectiveness Framework. Three key overarching themes were generated from the interviews. (1) Motivations and challenges during career transition; (2) Transforming the athlete experience into coaching competence; and (3) Development systems and resources for career transition. Practically, the findings support structured early-career mentoring, competency-based coach education that balances professional, interpersonal, and intrapersonal knowledge, and developing communities of practice to sustain learning. The study extends a transition of research to a Chinese context and identifies actionable policy and program design levers.		[Zhao, Zuoxian; Barkell, James F.] Univ Sydney, SSESW, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Barkell, James F.] Univ Sydney, SSESW, Sydney, NSW, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001829476100001	54	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Grendstad, Halvard; Nilsen, Ann-Kristin; Hafstad, Arild Bratten; Kristoffersen, Morten; Gundersen, Hilde								More alike than expected? Longitudinal development of physical and mental skills in male youth football players with different playing status at age 19								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261467746				2026	Despite interest in talent research, limited evidence exists on how future professionals develop relative to peers. This study tracked the development of biological, physical, and mental characteristics in male football players who played at professional, semi-professional, or amateur level by age 19. Forty-four players were followed from age 14 to 19. Assessments included anthropometrics, biological maturity, training volume, maximal oxygen uptake, sprint performance, jump performance, leg press force and power, and intermittent-endurance performance. Mental skills were measured using a 16-item questionnaire targeting task orientation, effort, self-efficacy, and self-optimization. At age 19, players were classified as professional (n = 7), semi-professional (n = 12), or amateur (n = 25). Linear mixed models were used. No significant group differences were found for biological maturity. Both the professional and semi-professional groups outperformed amateurs across physical performance and capacity measures (p < .001-.033), with the semi-professional group recording higher sprint speeds than their peers (p = .049). Leg power was the only physical parameter that developed differently between groups over time (p = .014), with professionals improving more than their peers. For mental skills, semi-professionals scored higher than amateurs in self-optimization (p = .014), with no other differences found between the professional, semi-professional, or amateur players. In conclusion, youth players who reached the professional level by age 19 demonstrated stronger physical, but not mental profiles, than amateurs, yet showed largely similar developmental patterns to their semi-professional peers. Further research with larger sample sizes is required to confirm the findings of this study.		[Grendstad, Halvard; Nilsen, Ann-Kristin; Hafstad, Arild Bratten; Kristoffersen, Morten; Gundersen, Hilde] Western Norway Univ Appl Sci, Dept Sport Food & Nat Sci, Bergen, Norway; [Grendstad, Halvard] Valerenga Fotball, Youth Dept, Oslo, Norway; [Gundersen, Hilde] Western Norway Univ Appl Sci, Dept Sport Food & Nat Sci, Bergen, Norway								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001829131100001	58	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Chen, Peng; Xu, Menghan; Guo, Chaoyu; Tan, Teck Cheng; Le, Van Minh; Wang, Lin								Sex differences in knee biomechanics during unexpected cutting and their correlation with sensorimotor function								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2705265				2026	This study aims to investigate sex differences in knee biomechanics during unexpected cutting and their correlation with sensorimotor function. Sixteen male and 16 female athletes were recruited. Participants were asked to complete six unexpected cutting tasks on their dominant side. Peak muscle force, position sense, and force sense of the dominant knee were measured using a CON-TREX isokinetic dynamometer. Results suggested that female athletes demonstrated a higher knee valgus angle at initial contact (p = 0.004) and peak knee valgus angle (p = 0.027) than males. Females also had a lower peak knee flexion angle (p = 0.001) and knee flexion moment (p = 0.002) than males. Quadriceps force sense errors were correlated with peak knee valgus angle in female (r = 0.558, p = 0.025) and male (r = 0.550, p = 0.027) athletes. In addition, in female athletes, higher quadriceps strength was related to a greater peak knee flexion angle (r = 0.525, p = 0.037). In summary, female athletes exhibit knee biomechanical characteristics associated with a higher risk of anterior cruciate ligament injury compared with male athletes. Insufficient quadriceps strength and larger force sense error are associated with the knee biomechanical characteristics.		[Chen, Peng; Xu, Menghan; Guo, Chaoyu; Tan, Teck Cheng; Le, Van Minh] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Chen, Peng] Wuhan Sports Univ, Sch Sports Med, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lin] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sports Med & Rehabil Ctr, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lin] Shanghai Shangti Orthopaed Hosp, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lin] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sports Med & Rehabil Ctr, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lin] Shanghai Shangti Orthopaed Hosp, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001826654400001	62	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Gou, Pengpeng; Liu, Shunfang; Tan, Zhiyuan; Castagna, Carlo; Mohr, Magni; Wong, Del P.; Suzovic, Dejan; Liu, Hongyou								Analyzing the impact of tactical and technical indicators on match outcomes in the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup based on a decision tree model								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261467945				2026	The rapid professionalization of women's soccer has increased match demands and interest in performance analytics at major tournaments such as the FIFA Women's World Cup. However, there remains a need for transparent and interpretable analyses linking multidimensional technical indicators with match outcome in elite women's soccer. This study analyzed 126 team-match observations from the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup using publicly available aggregated SofaScore team-match statistics. A multidimensional technical-indicator framework covering attacking, possession,build-up, defensive, goalkeeping, and restart actions was established. Match tempo was quantified using Event Pace (technical events per minute of effective playing time), and matches were classified into fast- and slow-tempo groups using a median split. Correlation analysis, independent-samples t-tests, and an interpretable decision-tree model with ROC evaluation were applied. The tournament showed a heterogeneous tempo profile (2.05 +/- 0.36 events & centerdot;min-1). Fast-tempo matches involved more long passes, outside-box shots, successful crosses, and ground duels, whereas slow-tempo matches showed more aerial duels won and goalkeeper saves. The decision tree identified shots on target, dribbles won, possession, big chances, aerial duels won, and expected goals as key threshold-based split variables associated with winning versus not winning. The model showed high apparent discrimination (AUC = 0.969), but 10-fold cross-validation indicated more moderate performance (AUC = 0.703). The model should therefore be interpreted as a post-match explanatory classification model rather than a pre-match forecasting tool.		[Gou, Pengpeng] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Acad Wellness & Human Dev, Fac Arts & Social Sci, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Liu, Shunfang; Liu, Hongyou] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Tan, Zhiyuan; Suzovic, Dejan] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Blagoja Parovica 156, Belgrade, Serbia; [Castagna, Carlo] Pegaso Telemat Univ, Dept Educ & Sport Sci, Naples, Italy; [Castagna, Carlo] Tech Dept FIGC, Football Training & Biomech Lab, Coverciano, Italy; [Castagna, Carlo; Mohr, Magni] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, SDU Sport & Hlth Sci Cluster SHSC, DK-5230 Odense, Denmark; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Faroe Islands, Fac Hlth, Torshavn, Faroe Islands; [Wong, Del P.] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Educ Psychol & Social Work, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Tan, Zhiyuan] Southwest Petr Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Tan, Zhiyuan] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Blagoja Parovica 156, Belgrade, Serbia; [Tan, Zhiyuan] Univ Belgrade, Blagoja Parovica 156, Belgrade, Serbia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001826024400001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kennedy, Andrew								Coming to grips with the application of predictive processing in sports and sports coaching								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261466493				2026	The predictive processing framework - which casts the brain as an "organic prediction engine" that continuously generates and refines predictions about the world and how it works - conveys an intriguing, evidence-based account of how people operate in a complex and ever-changing world. Consequently, there has been growing interest within sports coaching about what the predictive processing framework might offer for explaining and enhancing sports performance. However, coming to grips with the framework and how to apply the principles to develop sporting skills is not a straightforward proposition. To support sports coaching researchers and practitioners in this endeavour, this article first offers a brief introduction to the predictive processing framework. The article then extends the framework to describe how these principles might operate in sports and sports coaching contexts. In outlining these sporting accounts, the hope is to provide a foundation for understanding and applying predictive processing principles to support and enhance sports performance.		[Kennedy, Andrew] Ctr Predict Proc Sports, Brisbane, Australia; [Kennedy, Andrew] Ctr Predict Proc Sports, Brisbane, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001826018500001	89	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Darrehshouri, Kiamarz; Abedanzadeh, Rasool; Theodorakis, Yannis								Effect of self-talk on the performance, learning, and transfer of football pass skill under conditions of physical fatigue in children								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261455226				2026	This semi-experimental design examined the effects of motivational (e.g., "I can," "Focus," "Confidence") and supplementary instructional (e.g., "knee," "target," "ankle") self-talk on the performance, retention, and transfer of football passing skills under physical fatigue in novice child players. Forty-five male novices aged 7-8 years (M +/- SD = 7.56 +/- 0.14) were randomly assigned to three groups: (a) self-talk under physical fatigue, (b) self-talk only, or (c) control (no self-talk, no fatigue). Physical fatigue was induced by 30-s maximum-effort vertical jumps and verified by heart rate (>= 85% age-predicted maximum) and perceived exertion (OMNI >= 7). Football passing performance (Mor & Christian test) was assessed at baseline, after 12 training sessions over four weeks, during retention (immediate and 24 h post-training), and transfer (30 min after retention). Both self-talk groups significantly outperformed the control group across acquisition, retention, and transfer phases (p < 0.01), with no differences between the two self-talk groups. Compared to a no-self-talk control condition, motivational self-talk significantly improved football passing performance in novice child players during acquisition, retention, and transfer tests. No significant differences were observed between the self-talk with fatigue and self-talk only groups, indicating that the effectiveness of self-talk was not diminished by verified physical fatigue. These findings support the use of motivational self-talk as a beneficial psychological strategy for enhancing motor skill learning and transfer in young novice athletes, but do not suggest superiority of self-talk under fatigue over self-talk under non-fatigued conditions.		[Darrehshouri, Kiamarz; Abedanzadeh, Rasool] Shahid Chamran Univ Ahvaz, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Motor Behav & Sport Psychol, Ahvaz, Iran; [Theodorakis, Yannis] Univ Thessaly, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Trikala, Greece; [Abedanzadeh, Rasool] Shahid Chamran Univ Ahvaz, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Motor Behav & Sport Psychol, Ahvaz, Iran								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001826579400001	68	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Pushkarenko, Kyle; Crane, Jeff R.; Cowan, Jennifer; Sullivan, Emma								Shaping Meaningful Movement in Community-Based Contexts: Practitioner Approaches to Facilitating Physical Literacy Development Inclusively for All								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2701731				2026	To explore how practitioners in community-based physical activity programs facilitate physical literacy development inclusively for individuals experiencing disability and how they shape conditions for meaningful movement experiences. Guided by interpretive constructivism, interpretive description, and ecological dynamics, semi-structured interviews were conducted with 26 practitioners across three purposively selected community-based cases. Within-case and cross-case analyses were used to identify recurring dimensions of practice. Four interrelated dimensions were identified: Power in Partnership, Empowerment by Design, Tailored for Success, and Holistic Harmony. Across cases, meaningful experiences were described as personally relevant, enjoyable, socially safe, autonomy-supportive, and responsive to embodied needs, goals, and pacing. Inclusive facilitation depended not on community settings being inherently inclusive, but on practitioners' ongoing negotiation of communication, sensory, social, logistical, and organizational constraints through collaboration, adaptation, and ethically responsive decision-making. Facilitating physical literacy development inclusively is best understood and approached as a relational, context-sensitive, and environmentally negotiated process. Findings highlight that meaningful movement experiences are influenced by social, affective, and institutional conditions, and they point to practical implications for practitioner preparation, program design, and evaluation in community settings.		[Pushkarenko, Kyle; Crane, Jeff R.; Cowan, Jennifer; Sullivan, Emma] Mem Univ Newfoundland, St John, NF, Canada; [Pushkarenko, Kyle] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, 230 Elizabeth Ave, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001822668300001	68	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Li, Ruonan; Huang, Xinru; Li, Xiangning; Tao, Yan								A Comparative Study on the Effects of Maximal Strength Training and Maximal Power Training on Lower Limb Explosive Power in Adolescent Beach Volleyball Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2703165				2026	This study aimed to investigate the differential effects of maximal strength training (MST) and maximal power training (MPT) on lower limb explosive power in adolescent beach volleyball athletes (ABVAs), and to provide scientific evidence for sport-specific training. Twenty-two adolescent beach volleyball athletes (age: 17.3 +/- 0.9 years, 13 males, 9 females) were randomly allocated to either the MST group (n = 11) or the MPT group (n = 11). The MST group completed traditional barbell strength training (2-4 RM), whereas the MPT group performed MPT using an air resistance device (40-70% 1 RM). Training was scheduled three times weekly for both groups, with each session lasting 90 min. A 2 (group: MST vs MPT) & times; 2 (time: pre-test vs. post-test) repeated-measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) were used to analyze changes in measured variables, including lower limb maximal power output (LLMPO), rigid surface vertical jump height (RSVJH), sand surface vertical jump height (SSVJH), 10-m sand surface sprint time (10-m SSST), and Isokinetic knee extensor peak torque (KEPT). After 4 weeks of training, the group-by-time interaction was non-significant for LLMPO (p = .411), but significant for RSVJH (p < .001), SSVJH (p < .001) and KEPT (p < .001). The MPT produced large effects on RSVJH (d = 0.74) and SSVJH (d = 0.71), while the MST had a large effect on KEPT (d = 0.82). Both training modalities can enhance lower limb explosive power in ABVAs, yet they target distinct components of explosive power.		[Li, Ruonan; Tao, Yan] Anhui Univ Appl Technol, Hefei, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Huang, Xinru] Anhui Univ Chinese Med, Hefei, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Li, Xiangning] Zhejiang Coll Sports, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Li, Ruonan] Anhui Univ Appl Technol, Sch Hlth & Phys Educ, 2600 Wenzhong Rd, Hefei 230011, Anhui, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001824119400001	28	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Antonio, Dayanne S.; Bigliassi, Marcelo; Krause, Maressa P.								Perceptual acuity ability in endurance runners: How cardiorespiratory fitness, not biological sex, shapes interoceptive awareness								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261469334				2026	This study examined sex differences in perceptual acuity ability, quantified via the just-noticeable difference approach (JND), through O2 kinetics expressed relative to individual O2max, their relationship to time perception, rating of perceived exertion (RPE), speed, and heart rate (HR) in recreational runners. Sixty-four runners (Females: n = 30, O2max = 48.0 +/- 5.2 ml & centerdot;kg-1 & centerdot;min-1; Males: n = 34, O2max = 57.0 +/- 5.6 ml & centerdot;kg-1 & centerdot;min-1) completed a maximal estimation trial and four 5-min JND bouts at 70%O2max, designed to quantify the O2 difference during the final 30 s between each JND bout and the preceding standard stimulus at intensities perceived as just above (JND-A) and just below (JND-B) the reference exertion. O2-time trajectories were modeled with generalized additive models; secondary outcomes were assessed via repeated-measures ANOVA. No sex differences emerged in total JND magnitude (Females: 6.83 +/- 3.69%O2max; Males: 6.23 +/- 2.82%O2max; d = 0.182) or time perception (eta 2 p = 0.009). Females exhibited higher O2 (+3.54%O2max) and distinct O2-time trajectories. Independent of sex, JND-A elicited a greater magnitude of change than JND-B: higher relative O2, RPE (Delta = 1.31-1.38 a.u.), time perception (Delta = 19-23.5 s), and speed (Delta = 0.096-0.134 m & centerdot;s-1). HR increased in JND-A for females (Delta=6.03 bpm) but not for males. These findings suggest that recreational runners of both sexes demonstrated comparable perceptual acuity ability, despite distinct relative O2 responses. At the bout level, our findings indicate an asymmetric self-regulation pattern, with JND-A eliciting greater physiological and perceptual responses than JND-B. Coaches can utilize JND thresholds, which relate to perceptual acuity, to create training programs aimed at supporting interoceptive awareness and exercise intensity regulation in recreational runners.		[Antonio, Dayanne S.; Bigliassi, Marcelo] Florida Int Univ, Coll Arts Sci & Educ, Miami, FL USA; [Krause, Maressa P.] Fed Technol Univ Parana, Dept Phys Educ, Curitiba, Brazil; [Antonio, Dayanne S.] Florida Int Univ, Acad Ctr One, Off 367, 3000 NE 151st St, Miami, FL 33181 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001822672100001	62	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Morais, Cristiano Zarbato; Ueda, Lucas Shoiti Carvalho; De Souza, Paulo Vitor; Bispo, Julio Cesar Da Silva; Dos Santos, Gustavo Muniz; Bedo, Bruno Luiz; Cruz, Ramon; Borges, Paulo Henrique								The role of coaches' instructional constraints in the exploratory behavior and creativity of young soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261468141				2026	Soccer involves complex interactions in which players' behaviors emerge from relationships with teammates, opponents, and environment. Coaches may shape these behaviors through instructional constraints, such as pre-game instructions and real-time feedback, influencing creativity and exploratory behavior. This study examined the effects of coaches' instructional constraints on creativity and exploratory behavior in youth soccer players during small-sided games (SSGs). Forty-eight male players from U-14, U-15, and U-16 categories participated in three conditions: no coach intervention (Baseline), pre-game instructions (Ca), and pre-game instructions combined with in-game feedback (Cb). Creativity was assessed using Creative Behavior Assessment in Team Sports (CBATS) and exploratory behavior through GPS-derived positional variables. Linear mixed-effects models revealed significant interaction effects between game condition and age category for SEI (p < 0.001), PMR_area (p < 0.001), PMR_Y (p = 0.040), PMR_X (p = 0.019), and versatility (p = 0.032), indicating category-specific adaptations in exploratory behavior. For creativity, significant main effects of game condition were observed for fluency (p = 0.014) and originality (p = 0.031). Pairwise comparisons showed lower fluency in Ca and higher originality in Cb compared with Baseline. Exploratory behavior responses varied according to developmental category, with distinct spatial adaptations emerging across instructional conditions. Findings suggest instructional constraints influence creativity and exploratory behavior differently during youth soccer SSGs. Creativity responses appeared stable across stages, whereas exploratory behavior was dependent on the interaction between instructional constraints and age category. Environments balancing guidance and self-organization may sustain exploratory engagement and promote adaptive and original tactical behavior in youth soccer.		[Morais, Cristiano Zarbato; Ueda, Lucas Shoiti Carvalho; De Souza, Paulo Vitor; Bispo, Julio Cesar Da Silva; Dos Santos, Gustavo Muniz; Cruz, Ramon; Borges, Paulo Henrique] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Bedo, Bruno Luiz] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Dos Santos, Gustavo Muniz] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Florianopolis, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001820901800001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Djeddi, Rachad; van den Tillaar, Roland; Negra, Yassine; Yahiaoui, Said; Znazen, Hela; Hammami, Raouf; Rebai, Haithem								Reverse nordic exercise as a strategy to enhance performance in young soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261469977				2026	This study examined the effects of an eight-week reverse nordic eccentric training program, compared with regular training alone, on physical fitness and inter-limb asymmetry in male youth soccer players. Twenty-five players were randomly assigned to a reverse Nordic exercise group (n = 13) or an active control group (n = 12). Significant group & times; time interactions, indicating greater improvements in the reverse nordic exercise group compared with the CG for the 10-m sprint (F = 13.18, p < 0.001, ES = 1.51), 505 CoD performance (F = 18.14, p < 0.001, ES = 1.67), CMJ (F = 20.15, p < 0.001, ES = 1.87), SJ (F = 17.58, p < 0.001, ES = 1.75), DJ-30 (F = 12.83, p = 0.002, ES = 1.49), dominant-leg single-leg hop performance (F = 32.60, p < 0.001, ES = 2.38), and non-dominant-leg single-leg hop performance (F = 25.36, p < 0.001, ES = 2.09). Post hoc analyses showed that improvements were confined to the Reverse Nordic exercise group, with gains in 10-m sprint, 505 CoD, CMJ, SJ, DJ-30, and dominant- and non-dominant-leg hop performance (ES = 0.63-2.52; all p < 0.001).In contrast, no significant pre-to-post changes were observed in the CG. Furthermore, no significant group & times; time interaction was observed for 20-m sprint performance (F = 0.44, p = 0.51, ES = 0.28) or inter-limb asymmetry (F = 0.41, p > 0.05, eta(2) = 0.27). In-season Reverse Nordic training improved key physical performance measures but did not outperform regular soccer training in reducing inter-limb asymmetry.		[Djeddi, Rachad; Hammami, Raouf; Rebai, Haithem] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Tunisian Res Lab Sports Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway; [Negra, Yassine] Manouba Univ, Res Lab Sport Performance Hlth & Soc LR23JS01, Manouba 2010, Tunisia; [Negra, Yassine; Hammami, Raouf] Univ Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Univ Campus, Manouba 2010, Tunisia; [Yahiaoui, Said] Univ Batna 2, Inst Sports Phys Act Sci, Batna, Algeria; [Znazen, Hela] Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman Univ, Coll Sports Sci & Phys Act, Dept Phys Sports Sci, POB 84428, Riyadh 11671, Saudi Arabia; [Rebai, Haithem] Univ Sfax, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Sfax, Univ Campus, Sfax, Tunisia; [Negra, Yassine] Manouba Univ, Res Lab Sport Performance Hlth & Soc LR23JS01, Manouba 2010, Tunisia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001820903500001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Elmer, David J.; Washington, Jessica K.; Conn, Victoria A.								Upper body muscle activation during acceleration and sprinting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2700672				2026	The purpose of this study was to measure EMG activity of the upper body and its relationship with sprint performance variables during a 40-m sprint. Fourteen adults (eight females, six males) completed three sprints, with mean activation for the deltoid, trapezius, biceps, triceps, latissimus dorsi, erector spinae, external oblique and rectus abdominus measured for each 10 m phase of the sprints, along with velocity, acceleration, net horizontal force (F H) and the ratio of F H to net sagittal ground reaction force (RF%). Overall, activation of the deltoid, trapezius, biceps and triceps declined during the later phases of the spint, while latissimus dorsi, erector spinae and external oblique activation increased after 0-10 m. From 10 to 20 m, activation of the latissimus dorsi and erector spinae were positively correlated with velocity, acceleration, F H and RF% (p-values 0.003-0.04). Erector spinae activity was also positively correlated with velocity (p = 0.01) and acceleration (p = 0.03) from 20 to 30 m. It seems that activation of the shoulder and arm musculature declines as runners near peak velocity, while trunk musculature activation increases. Erector spinae and latissimus dorsi activity may also be critical during the transition from peak acceleration to peak velocity while sprinting.		[Elmer, David J.; Conn, Victoria A.] Berry Coll, Dept Kinesiol, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA; [Washington, Jessica K.] Coastal Med Technol, Tampa, FL USA; [Elmer, David J.] Berry Coll, Dept Kinesiol, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001818767300001	20	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Clark, Kenneth P.; Noble, Tyler J.; Stewart, Harper E.; Meng, Christopher R.; Skoufos, Lia; Ryan, Laurence J.; Chapman, Robert F.								Spatiotemporal acceleration strategies in elite American male and female sprinters: between-group similarities and individual differences								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2688484				2026	We investigated maximal accelerations from starting blocks in 24 elite American sprinters (12 males, 100 m personal best 9.89 +/- 0.09 s; 12 females, 100 m personal best 10.87 +/- 0.09 s). Two trials per athlete were analysed from 0 to 10 m using high-speed video (240 fps) to obtain 2D spatiotemporal kinematics. Our first hypothesis, using group mean data, was that males would accelerate faster and have longer step lengths, but that there would be no significant male vs. female differences for the temporal variables. Our second hypothesis, focusing on individual data, was that although there would be similar times to 10 m within male and female groups, individual combinations of contact time, flight time, step rate, and step length would be used. Both hypotheses were confirmed. The results of this study indicated that from a group mean perspective, males and females displayed different acceleration performance (similar to 7% difference, p < 0.001) but similar temporal variables (|Delta| <= 0.003 s difference, all p > 0.369). However, the results also showed substantial variation in spatiotemporal acceleration strategy within groups of males and females, highlighting that there are numerous different strategies to attain elite acceleration even among athletes of similar high-performance level.		[Clark, Kenneth P.] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA 19383 USA; [Noble, Tyler J.; Stewart, Harper E.; Skoufos, Lia; Chapman, Robert F.] USA Track & Field, High Performance Dept, Indianapolis, IN USA; [Chapman, Robert F.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN USA; [Clark, Kenneth P.] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA 19383 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001819490300001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhou, Jianhao; Bloom, Gordon A.; Zhong, Yuming; Weldon, Anthony; Duncan, Michael; Kelly, Adam Leigh; Jiang, Dongting; Zhang, Ningyi; Yin, Mingyue; Mao, Lijuan; Li, Yongming								Longstanding yet emerging - The landscape and evolution of sport coaching science: A bibliometric analysis from 1932 to 2024								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261463675				2026	The surge in sport coaching science (SCS) highlights the necessity of regular knowledge synthesis. This article provides a comprehensive overview of the field of SCS from both macro-level and historical perspectives. A bibliometric analysis was conducted on 4264 SCS publications indexed in the Web of Science (WoS) up to 2024, following a standard four-step procedure. The results showed that the development of SCS spans nearly a century, with publications and citations accelerating sharply over the past 15 years. Journals specialised in coaching and sport psychology served as the primary publication outlets. Western countries, institutions, and authors dominated the research community. Seven research themes (co-word) and their evolutionary trajectories were revealed. Moreover, 18 research specialties (co-citation) were identified, along with their knowledge bases and temporal trends. Based on these results, we highlighted some key gaps and trends in SCS and proposed future research directions. This study helps SCS researchers set research agendas and reflect on academic achievements, while offering insights for journal editors, funders, policymakers, practitioners, and coach developers/educators, thereby contributing to the advancement of SCS and the coaching profession.		[Zhou, Jianhao; Zhong, Yuming; Jiang, Dongting; Zhang, Ningyi; Yin, Mingyue; Mao, Lijuan; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Bloom, Gordon A.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci, Birmingham, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Aston Villa Fdn, Aston Villa Football Club, Birmingham, England; [Duncan, Michael] Coventry Univ, Ctr Phys Act Sport & Exercise Sci, Coventry, England; [Kelly, Adam Leigh] Birmingham City Univ, Res Athlete & Youth Sport Dev RAYSD Lab, Birmingham, England; [Mao, Lijuan; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Coaching, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001817514600001	110	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Darragh, Ian A. J.; Nolan, David; Berndsen, Jakim								Global demographic, performance and participation trends in raw IPF powerlifting								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261462822				2026	Raw International Powerlifting Federation (IPF) powerlifting has grown rapidly over the past decade, yet little is known about how that growth has unfolded across countries, demographic groups, athlete careers, and performance standards. Using the OpenPowerlifting database, we analysed IPF-sanctioned, drug-tested, raw full-power competition results from 2012 to 2025. After filtering for valid male and female entries with complete meet performances, the final dataset comprised 126,509 lifters across 8601 competitions. Participation increased approximately 23-fold over the study period, with a temporary disruption in 2020 and recovery to above pre-pandemic levels by 2024. The sport remained male-dominated, although female participation increased over time, and participation was heavily concentrated geographically, particularly in the United States. Despite this rapid expansion, the demographic profile of competitors changed relatively little: lifters remained predominantly young adults, and body mass distributions were broadly stable. Competitive careers were typically short, with a median of two competitions per lifter and nearly half of all athletes competing only once. Nonetheless, performance standards improved across the period, particularly among women, with increases in median totals and Goodlift scores. These findings suggest that raw IPF powerlifting has evolved from a niche activity into a rapidly expanding international sport characterised by high entry, limited retention, and rising competitive standards. This study provides a population-level foundation for understanding the development and future trajectory of competitive powerlifting.		[Darragh, Ian A. J.] Geisinger Hlth, Musculoskeletal Inst, Scranton, PA USA; [Nolan, David] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Berndsen, Jakim] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Physiotherapy Publ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Berndsen, Jakim] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Physiotherapy Publ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dublin, Ireland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001816549600001	27	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Berg, Kate B.; Mistry, Tamera N.; Lyle, Mark A.; Popovich Jr, John M.; White, Grace M.; Reiter, David A.; Tsai, Liang-Ching								Heterogeneity of quadriceps muscles atrophy following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: A longitudinal MRI study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101953	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101953			SEP 2026	2026	Objectives: This study used MRI to longitudinally assess the differences in atrophy among individual quadriceps muscles and the association between muscle volume and strength recovery following ACL reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Longitudinal within-subject. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 13 subjects with unilateral ACLR. Main outcome measures: MRI and isokinetic strength of bilateral quadriceps muscles were acquired at 6 months and 1 year post-ACLR. The volumes of the 4 quadriceps muscles (vastus medialis, VM; vastus lateralis, VL, vastus intermedius, VI; rectus femoris, RF) were measured. The degree of atrophy for each muscle was calculated as % difference of the uninjured leg. Results: At both time points, all 4 quadriceps muscles of the ACLR legs were significantly smaller than the uninjured legs (P < 0.001), with greater atrophy in VM/VL than VI/RF (P <= 0.045). None of the 4 quadriceps muscles of the ACLR legs showed significant volumetric changes over time (P > 0.171). Quadriceps volume and strength recovery in the ACLR legs were not significantly correlated (r = 0.50, P = 0.09). Conclusions: Persistent quadriceps atrophy was found 1 year post-ACLR with greater atrophy in VL/VM than VI/ RF. Limited and heterogeneous muscle hypertrophy over time and the lack of strong association between hypertrophy and strength recovery highlight the need for rehabilitation promoting both morphological and functional recovery.		[Berg, Kate B.; Mistry, Tamera N.; White, Grace M.; Tsai, Liang-Ching] Georgia State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 140 Decatur St, Suite 1271, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Lyle, Mark A.; Reiter, David A.] Emory Univ, Atlanta, GA USA; [Popovich Jr, John M.] Michigan State Univ, E Lansing, MI USA; [Tsai, Liang-Ching] Georgia State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 140 Decatur St, Suite 1271, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001825073800001	37	Article; Article		
J	Baghurst, Timothy; Quick, Simon								Profanity use and its instructional impact in professional coaching								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261467876				2026	This descriptive case study examined the frequency, context, grammatical usage, and communicative function of profanity used by a professional ice hockey coach. Two practice sessions, sampled from a broader season-long dataset with a semi-professional adult ice hockey team, were analyzed using manual content analysis of verbatim coach quotations. Expletives were coded for frequency, grammatical function, intended target, and communicative purpose using researcher consensus procedures. Descriptive counts and category comparisons indicated that profanity occurred consistently, approximately once every three sentences, and was most often used as adjectival fillers to describe objects, actions, or situations. A smaller proportion was directed toward individuals. Profanity was most commonly coded as a conversational filler or an emotional intensifier, suggesting that it may, in some instances, compete with instructional precision rather than add task-relevant information. Although the adult coaching context may shape how such language is interpreted, person-directed expletives raise ethical and pedagogical concerns because they may be perceived as disrespectful, demeaning, or personally targeted. These findings should be interpreted cautiously because athlete understanding, psychological safety, and communication outcomes were not directly measured. Findings emphasize the need for coach education to include content that encourages coaches to reflect on the balance between emotional expression and precise, respectful communication. Future research should investigate the impact of coaching language on athlete outcomes across age groups and competitive levels.		[Baghurst, Timothy] Florida State Univ, Coll Educ Hlth & Human Sci, Ctr Athlet Coaching, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Quick, Simon] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Baghurst, Timothy] Florida State Univ, Coll Educ Hlth & Human Sci, Ctr Athlet Coaching, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001816272200001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Llanten, Natalia; Casals, Marti; Ampuero, Rodrigo; Ingles, Eduard; Baiget, Ernest								Match activity profile in elite female doubles beach tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261463737				2026	Beach tennis (BT) is a sport that combines elements from various racket disciplines and is played mostly in pairs on a sand court measuring 8 & times; 16 m. Despite its recent global expansion, there is still a lack of studies that comprehensively characterise its competitive demands. The aim of this study was to describe the temporal parameters and technical-tactical indicators of professional women's doubles BT, and secondarily, to examine potential differences between sets. Nine matches (6.527 shots) from the 2024 Sand Series Tour Finals were analysed. A cross-sectional observational design was performed. Matches had an average duration of 74.6 +/- 27:1 min, of which only the 17% (12.5 +/- 4:1 min) represented the effective playing time. Rallies lasted on average 6.8 +/- 0.8 s, followed by recovery pauses of 23.3 +/- 2.0 s, resulting in a work-to-rest ratio of 1:4.6. The forehand volley (18.4%) and cross-court play (53.4%) were the most frequent technical-tactical actions, with the left-side player contributing to 50.4% of all shots. No differences were observed between sets in temporal or technical-tactical parameters (p > 0.05). These findings provide a solid foundation for designing optimal training interventions tailored to the specific characteristics of professional women's doubles BT.		[Llanten, Natalia; Casals, Marti; Ampuero, Rodrigo; Ingles, Eduard; Baiget, Ernest] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Ave Estadi 12-22, Barcelona 08038, Spain; [Ampuero, Rodrigo] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Ave Estadi 12-22, Barcelona 08038, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001816193800001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Johns, Karen L.; Cocic, Dijana; Bilalic, Merim; Powell, Cormac								How long to fast? Development and competition context in season-fastest swimming performances								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261466580				2026	Each season, coaches must decide which competitions to enter, how many to schedule, and how to sequence them; however, competition programme planning remains among the least evidence-based areas of coaching practice. This study examined how the number of races and days to a season-fastest swim vary by age, competition level and competition format. An observational longitudinal design was used, analysing performance data from 116 elite and sub-elite Irish swimmers (72 male, 44 female) across 23 seasons (2011-2024), comprising 31,136 race-level performances and 11,288 season-events. Mixed effects two-part models (zero-inflated negative binomial for days-to-fastest; hurdle model for races-to-fastest) separated the probability of an immediate season-fastest from subsequent progression. Older swimmers required fewer races and fewer days to achieve their season-fastest swim, with the steepest developmental changes occurring from late childhood to mid adolescence. Long course seasons were characterised by later season-fastest performances in calendar days but required fewer race attempts than short course seasons. Seasons including National or International competitions were associated with 91% lower likelihood of achieving a season-fastest swim at the first opportunity (OR = 0.09), while season-fastest swims were over four times more likely to occur in multi-swim competitions (OR = 4.26). When heats and finals were available, approximately 77% of season-fastest swims occurred in the final. The timing and location of season-fastest performances are shaped by developmental stage, competition level, and competition structure, rather than occurring randomly across the season. Coaches working with younger swimmers should plan for a longer competition window and interpret early-season performances with caution.		[Johns, Karen L.; Cocic, Dijana; Bilalic, Merim] Northumbria Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, England; [Powell, Cormac] High Performance Unit, Sport Ireland, Dublin, Ireland; [Powell, Cormac] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Johns, Karen L.] Northumbria Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001815158800001	15	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Stewart, Perry; Fletcher, David; Arnold, Rachel; McEwan, Desmond								Leaders' perceptions of performance support team effectiveness in elite sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261460374				2026	Performance support teams are central to optimising athlete health, wellbeing, and performance in elite sport, yet team effectiveness depends on more than the aggregation of specialist expertise. Despite increasing attention on leadership in sport, limited research has examined how leaders facilitate team effectiveness within performance support teams. The purpose of this study was to examine performance support team leaders' perceptions on facilitating team effectiveness in elite sport. Twelve semi-structured interviews were conducted with leaders of performance support teams across elite sport organisations, including the English Premier League, Premiership rugby, Netball Super League, Olympic sports, and international football, cricket, and netball. Three themes were generated to explain how leaders contribute to performance support team effectiveness. Creating Alignment in Complex Performance Environments captured how leaders establish shared direction, align people and resources, and structure collaboration around performance needs. Leading Through Relationships reflected how leaders prioritise the person ahead of the practitioner, build trust that enables challenge, and foster cohesion amongst team members. Building and Mobilising Expertise Across the Team described how leaders drew on experience to inform decisions, recruit complementary perspectives and develop ownership and autonomy. Together, these findings position leadership in performance support teams as a relational, context-sensitive, and system-shaping practice, with practical implications for leadership development, recruitment, team design, and team effectiveness.		[Stewart, Perry; Fletcher, David] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Epinal Way, Loughborough, England; [Arnold, Rachel] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [McEwan, Desmond] Univ British Columbia, Sch Kinesiol, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Stewart, Perry] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Epinal Way, Loughborough, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001815166100001	71	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zoellner, Anja; Whatman, Chris								The association between biological maturity and injury in young females participating in sport: A systematic review								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101843	10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.08.007			JUL 2026	2026	Background: Injuries in youth sport remain a concern. Biological maturity has been linked to injury risk but there is limited female specific evidence. Aim: To evaluate the evidence for an association between biological maturity and injury in young females participating in sport. Methods: A systematic search was conducted using EBSCO Health database from inception until April 2025. Studies were included if they investigated females in any sport and reported an assessment of biological maturity status and either injury rate or potential factors associated with injury. Study quality and risk of bias and the strength of evidence for findings was determined based on the consistency and quality of studies. Finding: 31 studies (n = 10 reporting injury; n = 21 reporting risk factors) were included in the review. Evidence supporting an association between injury and maturation was limited. There is moderate evidence of an association between potential injury risk factors and maturation. Most evidence is in the context of lower limb biomechanics during jump/landing tasks and potential risk of knee injury. Conclusion: Current evidence for a link between maturity status and sport related injury in young females is limited, however there is moderate evidence that maturity status is associated with potential knee injury risk factors.		[Zoellner, Anja; Whatman, Chris] Auckland Univ Technol, AUT Millennium Sport Performance Res Inst New Zeal, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Sch Sport & Recreat, Private Bag 92006, Auckland, New Zealand; [Zoellner, Anja] Auckland Univ Technol, AUT Millennium Sport Performance Res Inst New Zeal, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Sch Sport & Recreat, Private Bag 92006, Auckland, New Zealand								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001823029600001	58	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Bo-Ching								Pygmalion in sport: How coach expectations predict sports performance through self-efficacy and perceived athletic ability among Taiwanese collegiate athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261459407				2026	The Pygmalion effect describes how individuals internalise others' expectations and behave accordingly. While well-documented in education, this phenomenon remains underexplored in sports. This study examined how coach expectations predict sports performance through self-efficacy and, sequentially, perceived athletic ability among Taiwanese university athletes. A total of 172 Taiwanese university athletes (68.6% male, 31.4% female; M age = 19.91, SD = 1.27) participated in this cross-sectional study. Participants completed validated questionnaires measuring coach expectations, self-efficacy, perceived athletic ability, and sports performance. Using PLS-SEM with bias-corrected bootstrapping (10,000 resamples), results showed coach expectations significantly predicted self-efficacy (beta = .45, 95% CI [.32, .56]), which predicted perceived athletic ability (beta = .60, 95% CI [.48, .70]) and sports performance (beta = .24, 95% CI [.05, .41]). Perceived athletic ability also predicted sports performance (beta = .22, 95% CI [.03, .38]). The direct path from coach expectations to sports performance was non-significant (beta = .16, 95% CI [-.06, .32]), indicating full mediation. Indirect effects were identified through self-efficacy (beta = .11, 95% CI [.03, .20]) and through the sequential pathway via self-efficacy and perceived athletic ability (beta = .06, 95% CI [.01, .11]). Findings indicate coach expectations predict sports performance indirectly through psychological pathways rather than directly. Practically, coaches can support sports performance by communicating high expectations and providing supportive feedback that strengthens self-efficacy and perceived athletic ability.		[Chen, Bo-Ching] CTBC Business Sch, Undergrad Program Sports Coaching, Tainan 709301, Taiwan; [Chen, Bo-Ching] CTBC Business Sch, Undergrad Program Sports Coaching, Tainan 709301, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001814958300001	61	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kruczek, Karol; Gregorczyk, Kacper; Gabbett, Tim; Lake, Jason; Nowak, Michal								Interrelationships between countermovement jump, assisted acceleration-deceleration, and isometric belt squat metrics in American football players - exploratory study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261465888				2026	Background Practitioners increasingly seek proxy metrics that allow key neuromuscular qualities to be monitored using field-based tests. However, the extent to which countermovement jump (CMJ), sprint-based deceleration tasks, and isometric strength tests share underlying constructs remains unclear.Purpose To examine relationships between metrics derived from CMJ, assisted 30 m acceleration-deceleration (ADA30), and isometric belt squat (IBS) tests, and to identify candidate proxy metrics for acceleration, peak sprint velocity, and braking.Methods Twenty-four American football players completed CMJ no-arms-swing, ADA30 in assisted mode, and IBS at similar to 120 degrees knee flexion. From exports, 30 CMJ, 8 ADA30 phase 1a, and 9 IBS variables were retained. Spearman rank correlations were computed between CMJ-ADA30, CMJ-IBS, and ADA30-IBS pairs. False discovery rate was controlled using the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure (q = 0.10).Results Phase 1a peak assisted sprint velocity was associated with CMJ propulsive metrics (rho = 0.61-0.81). CMJ braking phase variables were associated with IBS relative peak force, including relative braking force metrics (rho = 0.63-0.66) and braking phase duration (rho = -0.61). Braking phase duration and stiffness were associated with phase 1a peak deceleration (rho = -0.58 and -0.57). Peak IBS rate of force development was counterintuitively associated with early assisted acceleration metrics, comprising phase 1a 0-5 m time (rho = 0.58) and phase 1a peak acceleration (rho = -0.57).Conclusions CMJ propulsive metrics appear to be robust proxy candidates for assisted peak sprint velocity, whereas CMJ braking phase variables and IBS force outputs may reflect indirectly neuromuscular capacities related to horizontal deceleration. Further work, including unassisted sprint and deceleration tasks, is required.		[Kruczek, Karol; Gregorczyk, Kacper] Next Generat Performance, Sports Sci Dept, Krakow, Poland; [Gabbett, Tim] Gabbett Performance Solut, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Lake, Jason] Univ Chichester, Sch Sport Sci & Engn, Chichester, England; [Lake, Jason] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Strength & Power Res Grp, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Nowak, Michal] Jan Dlugosz Univ Czestochowa, Coll Med Dr Wladyslaw Bieganski, Dept Phys Culture Sci, Czestochowa, Poland; [Kruczek, Karol] Next Generat Performance, Sports Sci Dept, Krakow, Poland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001814866700001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Svensson, Melanie; Harringe, Marita; Hedevik, Henrik; Kvist, Joanna								Return to preinjury sport after ACL injury treated with rehabilitation alone or ACL reconstruction: Results from the NACOX prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				81						101952	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101952			SEP 2026	2026	Objectives: In patients with ACL injury treated according to clinical practice, to explore: (1) the rate and time from injury to return to pre-injury sport IKDC sports level (RTS), (2) RTS rates to specific sports, and (3) patients' reported knee function. Design: Prospective multicentre cohort study. Participants: 270 patients (53% females). Within three years of the injury, 178 patients (66%) had undergone ACL reconstruction (ACLR). Main outcome measures: Time from injury to RTS. Patient-reported knee function was evaluated with the Single Numeric Assessment Scale (SANE). Results: Overall, 210 (78%) patients RTS. IKDC level-I and level-II patients RTS later (12 [95% CI 10-13] and 10 [95% CI 7-13] vs. 2 [95% CI 2-3] months, p < 0.001) and fewer RTS compared to IKDC level-III patients (66% vs. 76%, compared to 100%, p < 0.001). RTS rates for football were 60%, floorball 71%, handball 88%, and running 100%. SANE did not differ between the IKDC level groups at follow-ups; however, IKDC level-III patients reported lower SANE at RTS. Conclusions: Patients RTS to all sports level regardless of ACLR. Fewer patients in sports placing high demands on the knee RTS, and they RTS later compared to sports that are less demanding on the knee.		[Svensson, Melanie; Harringe, Marita] Karolinska Inst, Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Mol Med & Surg, Stockholm, Sweden; [Harringe, Marita; Hedevik, Henrik; Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping, Sweden; [Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Ctr Med Image Sci & Visualizat CMIV, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Linkoping, Sweden; [Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping, Sweden								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001823875300001	38	Article; Article		
J	Haber, Catherine; Hopper, Luke; Scharli, Andrea								Measuring a pirouette: examining the validity of biomechanical measures for double pirouette performances								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2676131				2026	Pirouette performance has been widely analysed biomechanically, with performance quantified by disparate measures. Therefore, this study examined the criterion validity of biomechanical measures in relation to expert ratings of balanced pirouette performance, and secondarily, dancers' subjective performance evaluations. Forty-nine dancers performed a collective 353 double pirouettes recorded with 3D motion capture. Dancers rated their own performance on a scale from 1 to 10. Following, kinematic data were used to create stick-figure videos, which three experts rated for balance performance on a scale of 1 to 6. Expert rating reliability was assessed with an Intraclass Correlation (ICC). Correlations were calculated between 16 kinematic measures and (1) expert observers' ratings of balance performance and (2) dancers' subjective ratings of overall performance. Overall, there was strong agreement among experts (ICC = 0.92). Dancer and expert ratings most strongly correlated with the pathlength of the supporting foot over the whole pirouette (r s-dancer = -0.59, r s-expert = -0.65). Interestingly, total degrees of trunk rotation-a common field measure-did not significantly relate to expert or dancer ratings. Rather, supporting foot displacement was the strongest field-based correlate (r s-dancer = -0.50, r s-expert = -0.50). These findings thus provide a basis for selecting kinematic measures that reflect practitioner evaluations and underlying biomechanical principles of pirouette performance.		[Haber, Catherine; Scharli, Andrea] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland; [Haber, Catherine] Trinity Laban Conservatoire Music & Dance, Dance Sci, London, England; [Haber, Catherine; Hopper, Luke] Edith Cowan Univ, Western Australian Acad Performing Arts, Perth, Australia; [Haber, Catherine] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001847967100001	53	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Collier, Matthew W.; Ripley, Nicholas J.; McBride, Lesley; O'Neill, Seth; Dolan, Patrick								Injury surveillance during the 2024 under 20s Men's European Field Lacrosse Championships								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2698415				2026	Objectives To investigate the epidemiological characteristics of injuries sustained at the under 20s (U20) Men's European Lacrosse Championships. Method Injury surveillance data was prospectively collected during the 2024 U20 European Lacrosse Championships (Wroc & lstrok;aw, Poland). A standardized electronic reporting system based on the 2020 IOC consensus statement was used. Injury incidence was reported per 1000 match-player-hours (match-p-h). Results A total of 55 match-related injuries were reported with an injury incidence rate of 88.7 injuries per 1000 match-p-h (66.8-115.5 CI). The majority of injuries were non-time-loss (82%, 72.6 per 1000 match-p-h, 52.9-97.1 CI), 15% resulted in time-loss (>24 hours lost due to injury, 12.9 per 1000 match-p-h, 5.6-25.4 CI), and 4% reported as unknown (3.2 per 1000 match-p-h, 0.4-11.7 CI). Most injuries had a time-loss lasting between 0-1 day (73%; 64.5 per 1000 match-p-h, 46.1-87.9 CI). The onset of injury was predominantly as a result of sudden-acute trauma (73%; 64.5 per 1000 match-p-h, 46.1-87.9 CI), with contact mechanisms accounting for 67% (59.7 per 1000 match-p-h, 42.0-82.3 CI). The most frequent injuries reported were anterior thigh muscle contusion (9%; 8.1 per 1000 match-p-h, 2.6-18.8 CI), calf muscle injury (9%; 8.1 per 1000 match-p-h, 2.6-18.8 CI), ankle sprain (7%, 6.5 per 1000 match-p-h, 1.8-16.5 CI), and knee contusion (7%, 6.5 per 1000 match-p-h, 1.8-16.5 CI). Conclusions The injury incidence during the 2024 U20 Men's European Lacrosse Championships was high compared to similar youth field sports, though most injuries did not result in time-loss. The findings should be used to inform preparations for future age-group international lacrosse tournaments.		[Collier, Matthew W.; McBride, Lesley; O'Neill, Seth] Univ Leicester, Coll Life Sci, Sch Healthcare, Univ Rd, Leicester LE1 7RH, England; [Collier, Matthew W.; Dolan, Patrick] World Lacrosse, Med Commiss, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [Ripley, Nicholas J.] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Salford, England; [Collier, Matthew W.] Univ Leicester, Coll Life Sci, Sch Healthcare, Univ Rd, Leicester LE1 7RH, England								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001815668500001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bilke, Clayton; Park, Se-Woong; Giambini, Hugo; Oyama, Sakiko								The effects of wrist height at lead foot contact on shoulder and elbow joint moments in baseball pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2693976				2026	The effects of arm position at lead foot contact (FC) on shoulder and elbow joint kinetics are not well understood. This study investigated the effects of wrist height relative to the shoulder at FC on the joint moments and pitching kinematics in high school and collegiate pitchers using a motion capture system. Peak elbow varus and shoulder internal rotation moments, along with upper extremity, pelvis, and upper torso kinematics, were compared among pitchers with the wrist positioned below, at, or above the shoulder at FC. Compared with pitchers whose wrist remained below the shoulder, those with the wrist above the shoulder demonstrated greater elbow varus and shoulder internal rotation moments, greater shoulder external rotation and upper torso rotation throughout most of the arm-cocking phase, a shorter arm-cocking phase, and earlier timing of key pitching events. Delaying the throwing arm motion during the stride by having a wrist below the shoulder at FC may help elongate the arm-cocking phase and minimize joint moments. Wrist height at lead foot contact may provide a simple and practical method for identifying pitchers who may be experiencing elevated joint loading. The findings also support the concept that pitching mechanics at lead foot contact influence kinematics throughout the subsequent phases of the pitching motion.		[Bilke, Clayton; Park, Se-Woong; Oyama, Sakiko] Univ Texas San Antonio, Dept Kinesiol, San Antonio, TX 78249 USA; [Giambini, Hugo] Univ Texas San Antonio, Dept Biomed Engn, San Antonio, TX USA; [Oyama, Sakiko] Univ Texas San Antonio, Dept Kinesiol, San Antonio, TX 78249 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001814535600001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	McFadden, Bridget A.; Cintineo, Harry P.; Eweka, Deon; Balachandran, Anoop T.								Collegiate athletes' current and prior experiences with resistance training programs: A comparison by sex								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261462376				2026	This study assessed male and female collegiate athletes' current and previous resistance training (RT) experiences and explored athletes' confidence levels regarding RT implementation. National Collegiate Athletic Association athletes were invited to participate in the anonymous survey consisting of 22 questions pertaining to demographics, sport participation, RT experiences and confidence levels. Response frequencies were assessed. Independent samples t-tests and chi 2 analyses with Yates' continuity correction were performed to assess sex differences (alpha=0.05). One hundred and thirty-seven athletes (52% women) were included in the analysis. Men reported sport participation at age 10 +/- 5 years and women at age 8 +/- 4 years. Men and women reported starting RT at age 15 +/- 2 years, with no sex differences found (P > 0.05). No sex differences were found related to "confidence in ability to weight train on your own" (P > 0.05). 46.6% of women and 52.6% of men described being "very confident". No sex differences were found related to "confidence in ability to design your own weight training program" (P > 0.05). 15.5% of women and 24.6% of men indicated they were "very confident". When asked about barriers to starting RT, responses frequently included access to equipment and facilities, and lack of confidence and anxiety in gym settings. Addressing these issues may aid in increasing RT prescriptions for youth and collegiate athletes. Evaluating student athletes' previous RT experiences may help to inform coaches of appropriate load progression to optimize performance. Youth athletes who begin organized sport at an early age should be encouraged to engage in RT with qualified personnel.		[McFadden, Bridget A.; Eweka, Deon; Balachandran, Anoop T.] CUNY, Queens Coll, Dept Family Nutr & Exercise Sci, 65-30 Kissena Blvd, Flushing, NY 10017 USA; [Cintineo, Harry P.] US Air Force Acad, Human Performance Lab, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [McFadden, Bridget A.] CUNY, Queens Coll, Dept Family Nutr & Exercise Sci, 65-30 Kissena Blvd, Flushing, NY 10017 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001810223000001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Morris, Justin; Solmon, Melinda; Garn, Alex								Relationships among the coach-athlete-parent triangle and basic needs satisfaction and frustration: A retrospective study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261459424				2026	Youth sport athletes experience a wide range of social influences that impact their motivation and overall experiences in athletic endeavors. These relationships are complex and can have an impact on one another. Using self-determination theory as a framework, this study examined the processes of the Coach-Athlete-Parent (C-A-P) Triangle and their associations with relatedness need satisfaction and frustration. A retrospective design was used with former youth sport athletes (N = 260) who were current college students between the ages 18-23. Participants completed a battery of surveys assessing positive and negative perceptions of the C-A-P, relatedness need satisfaction and frustration, and intrinsic motivation. The network of relationships was analyzed using a path analysis. Relatedness needs satisfaction mediated the relationship between positive processes in the C-A-P, characterized by support and cohesion, and interest and value. Negative processes of the C-A-P, characterized by over-involvement and pressure, had a direct negative effect on perceived choice. The results provide insight into how social relationships function to satisfy the relatedness need and foster intrinsic motivation. These findings also explore the importance of supportive, cooperative relationships among coaches, parents, and athletes in order to enhance the feelings of belonging and enjoyment during the youth sport experience. This study contributes to a deeper understanding of youth sport social dynamics by identifying how the C-A-P triangle influences motivation. It provides strategies for sustaining positive sport experiences that encourage lifelong engagement in physical activity.		[Morris, Justin; Solmon, Melinda; Garn, Alex] Louisiana State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Baton Rouge, LA USA; [Morris, Justin] Baylor Univ, Waco, TX 76706 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001809437900001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bailen-Garcia, Toni; Quintana-Cepedal, Marcos; Lopez-Perez, Eduardo; de la Calle, Omar; Esteve, Ernest; Crespo, Irene; Olmedillas, Hugo								Pre-season risk factors for groin problems in female football players: A prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101951	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101951			JUL 2026	2026	Objective: To investigate pre-season characteristics associated with in-season groin problems and to assess the discriminatory performance of clinical markers using a predictive modelling approach. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Spanish female football (tiers II and III). Participants: Thirty-seven players. Main outcome measures: Pre-season assessments included isometric hip adduction (5-s squeeze test), hip mobility (bent-knee fall-out [BKFO]), adductor endurance (Brazilian Adductor Performance Test), HAGOS-Sport scores, and limb length. In-season groin problems were monitored via the OSTRC-O2 questionnaire. Results: Fourteen players (37%) reported groin problems. Players who developed symptoms were older (g = 0.95), heavier (g = 0.87) and had lower adductor torque (g =-0.72) than uninjured counterparts. Adductor torque asymmetry (AUC = 0.86, 95% CI: 0.74-0.97) and BKFO test (AUC = 0.78, 95% CI: 0.64-0.94) showed the highest clinical predictive performance. While limb length also yielded high AUC, this requires cautious interpretation due to the sample size. Conclusions: Pre-season adductor strength imbalance and hip mobility emerged as relevant indicators of groin problem risk in female football players. These findings highlight the potential utility of individualized screening to identify vulnerable players. However, the small sample size warrants cautious interpretation, and larger cohorts are needed to refine these predictive approaches.		[Bailen-Garcia, Toni; Quintana-Cepedal, Marcos; Lopez-Perez, Eduardo; Crespo, Irene; Olmedillas, Hugo] Univ Oviedo, Dept Funct Biol, Oviedo, Spain; [Bailen-Garcia, Toni; Quintana-Cepedal, Marcos; de la Calle, Omar; Crespo, Irene; Olmedillas, Hugo] Asturian Res Grp Performance Readaptat Training &, Oviedo, Spain; [Esteve, Ernest] Univ Girona, Univ Sch Hlth & Sport EUSES, Girona, Spain; [Esteve, Ernest] Univ Girona UdG, Dept Med Sci, Res Grp Clin Anat Embryol & Neurosci NEOMA, Girona, Catalonia, Spain; [Olmedillas, Hugo] Univ Oviedo, Dept Funct Biol, Oviedo, Spain								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001818377500001	43	Article; Article		
J	Knihs, Debora A.; Bishop, Chris; Guglielmo, Luiz G. A.; Dal Pupo, Juliano								Assessing the Relationship between In-Water Kinetic Asymmetries and Performance in Swimming								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				15	25		10.5114/jhk/211343			JUL 2026	2026	The present study aimed to investigate the relationship among force, impulse and their asymmetries with swimming performance across different distances, and to explore whether the correlations were dependent on the presence of "real" asymmetries (i.e., higher than metric variability). Thirty-five male swimmers (age: 19.5 years +/- 5.0, body mass: 75.4 +/- 11.5 kg, body height: 181.7 +/- 7.6 cm) performed a 15-s tethered-swimming test, in which peak force, mean force and impulse of each body side were measured. The absolute and relative asymmetries were subsequently obtained. The coefficient of variation was calculated and used to identify the presence of "real" asymmetries (i.e., asymmetries greater than the CV). The official times for 50-, 100-, and 200-m front-crawl swimming were obtained. Pearson's r correlations showed that peak and mean force presented moderate to strong associations (r = -0.51 to -0.84; p <= 0.001 to 0.013) with performance at all distances. Impulse only presented moderate associations with 50-m front crawl performance (r = -0.50 to -0.62; p <= 0.001 to 0.013). When considering the whole sample, no associations were seen between asymmetries and swimming performance, but when considering only athletes presenting "real" asymmetries, weak to moderate correlations were found between peak force asymmetries and 50/100-m performance (r = 0.47 and 0.59; p = 0.016 and 0.002). In conclusion, force and impulse are related to swimming performance, and individual asymmetries should be monitored in swimmers, as they might be present and related to performance depending on the approach adopted.		[Knihs, Debora A.; Guglielmo, Luiz G. A.; Dal Pupo, Juliano] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Knihs, Debora A.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, Brazil								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500002	29	Article; Article		
J	Bishop, Chris; Afonso, Jose; Turner, Anthony								Inter-Limb Asymmetry: Lessons Learnt from 10 Years of Data Collection in Performance Sport								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				5	14		10.5114/jhk/224732			JUL 2026	2026	For years, inter-limb asymmetry data have been reported in performance science and injury rehabilitation literature, together with routine monitoring in professional practice. Intuitively, many practitioners are almost 'hardwired' to think that if a sizable inter-limb asymmetry presents itself, then something must be done to correct it. However, before any attempt is considered regarding trying to alter the magnitude of asymmetry, practitioners and researchers should first better comprehend the associated challenges and pitfalls of inter-limb asymmetry data. Once these are understood, a series of robust and pragmatic principles are proposed to enhance the utility of asymmetry data, which in turn, should help ensure that appropriate due-diligence is undertaken, serving to guide subsequent decision-making when considering this metric.		[Bishop, Chris; Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Afonso, Jose] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Warathanagasame, Pinyada; Subedi, Miraj; Sinsurin, Komsak; Suttiwong, Jatuporn								Higher Risk of Non-Contact Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury in the Non-Dominant Limb during Single-Leg Lateral Jump Landing in Active Individuals								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				97	106		10.5114/jhk/205897			JUL 2026	2026	Non-contact anterior cruciate ligament injury is a common sports injury, for which biomechanical factors are considered important. Gender and limb dominance influence lower limb biomechanics. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the effects of gender and limb dominance on trunk and lower extremity biomechanics in the frontal plane during single-leg lateral jump landing. A total of 20 active individuals (10 male and 10 female) were recruited to perform lateral single-leg jump landing. The study was conducted in a motion analysis laboratory. Ten Vicon (TM) cameras (200 Hz) synchronized with an AMTI force plate (1,000 Hz) were used to capture kinematic and kinetic data. A three-dimensional (3D) model of the trunk and lower extremities was constructed using Visual3D software. Average data of ground reaction forces (GRFs), frontal motion of the trunk and lower limb, and frontal joint moment of the lower limb were reported and analyzed. A two-way mixed ANOVA model (2 & times; 2, gender & times; side) was used to analyze the primary effect. The significance level of 0.05 was set for statistical analysis. Active females exhibited significantly higher peak vertical GRF (p = 0.01) than males. The non-dominant limb had a significantly higher knee valgus moment at the peak vertical GRF (p < 0.001), the knee valgus angle excursion (p = 0.03), and the hip abductor moment at the peak vertical GRF (p < 0.001). Both groups used similar frontal plane lower extremity control strategies. A significantly higher knee valgus excursion, hip abductor moment, and knee valgus moment at the peak vertical GRF phase were observed in the non-dominant limb. Therefore, the non-dominant limb appeared to have higher loading at the hip and knee joints during landing.		[Warathanagasame, Pinyada] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Phys Therapy Ctr, Salaya, Thailand; [Subedi, Miraj] Hosp Adv Med & Surg, Kathmandu, Nepal; [Sinsurin, Komsak] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech & Sports Res Unit, Salaya, Thailand; [Suttiwong, Jatuporn] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Funct Outcome Measure Res Unit, Salaya, Thailand; [Sinsurin, Komsak] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech & Sports Res Unit, Salaya, Thailand								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500008	22	Article; Article		
J	Casal-Garcia, Nerea; Lopez-del Amo, Jose Luis								The Role of Step Length and Step Frequency in the 400-meters Hurdles Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				185	200		10.5114/jhk/205439			JUL 2026	2026	Running speed represents the optimal balance between stride frequency (SF) and stride length (SL), both crucial determinants of performance. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in performance in the 400-m hurdles (mH) for both men and women. The main purpose of this study was to assess whether SF and SL were significant indicators of performance in the 400 mH. Additionally, the study sought to determine whether the ratio of stride length to stride frequency (SL/SF) could serve as a more effective performance indicator compared to analysing SL and SF separately. A total of 511 individual performances from four major championships (the World Championships Doha 2019 and Oregon 2022, the Tokyo 2020 Olympics and the Munich 2022 European Championships) were analysed through video during competition. SL showed high to moderate correlations with performance in both sexes, especially in the second half of the race. However, SF did not correlate with final performance and showed only minor differences between groups. Elite athletes demonstrated a higher SL/SF ratio, as well as greater SL, with more pronounced differences in the second half of the race. Coaches should consider using the SL/SF ratio rather than SF alone to enhance its validity as a kinematic variable related to performance. The current top athletes exhibit higher values for SL and the SL/SF ratio, with particular emphasis during the second half of the event.		[Casal-Garcia, Nerea] Univ Lleida UdL, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, La Seu Durgell, Spain; [Lopez-del Amo, Jose Luis] Univ Barcelona UB, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Casal-Garcia, Nerea] Univ Lleida UdL, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, La Seu Durgell, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500014	33	Article; Article		
J	Enes, Alysson; Nass, Guilherme; Alves, Ragami C.; Mohan, Adam E.; Pinero, Alec; Oneda, Gustavo; Leonel, Danilo Fonseca; Schoenfeld, Brad J.; Souza-Junior, Tacito P.								Exploring the Dose-Response Relationship between Resistance- Training Volume and Psychophysiological Responses in Trained Males								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				303	318		10.5114/jhk/20905			JUL 2026	2026	We investigated the effects of different weekly-set progressions on perceptual responses and explored whether muscle thickness (MT) responses were related to perceptual and volume metrics in resistance-trained males. Thirty-one participants were randomly assigned to one of the three groups: a fixed set (FS) group (n = 10), maintaining 22 weekly quadriceps sets; a 4-Set (4S) group (n = 10) and a 6-Set (6S) group (n = 11), increasing by four and six every fortnight, respectively. Training occurred twice weekly for 12 weeks. The session rating of perceived exertion (sRPE) and session feelings of pleasure/displeasure (sFPD) were assessed 15 min post-training, while sRPE-derived metrics (monotony and strain) were analyzed weekly. The sRPE was higher in the FS compared to the 4S group (p = 0.046), while sFPD were higher in the FS compared to the 6S group (p < 0.001). Monotony was lower in the 4S than in other groups (p < 0.001). Strain followed a graded dose-response (6S > 4S > FS, p < 0.001). Overall, there were no meaningful correlations between volume load slopes and MT (r < 0.392) or perceptual responses (r < 0.448). These findings suggest that progressive increases in weekly-set volume influence perceptual responses; however, these responses do not appear to be related to changes in muscle thickness.		[Enes, Alysson; Nass, Guilherme; Alves, Ragami C.; Souza-Junior, Tacito P.] Fed Univ Parana UFPR, Metab Nutr & Strength Training Res Grp, Curitiba, Brazil; [Enes, Alysson; Mohan, Adam E.; Pinero, Alec; Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY Lehman Coll, Dept Exercise Sci & Recreat, Appl Muscle Dev Lab, Bronx, NY 10468 USA; [Oneda, Gustavo] Fed Univ Santa Catarina UFSC, Sports Ctr, Dept Phys Educ, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Leonel, Danilo Fonseca] Fed Univ Jequitinhonha & Mucuri Valleys UFVJM, Dept Phys Educ, Athlet & Endurance Runners Res Grp PACE, Diamantina, Brazil; [Enes, Alysson] Fed Univ Parana UFPR, Metab Nutr & Strength Training Res Grp, Curitiba, Brazil; [Enes, Alysson] CUNY Lehman Coll, Dept Exercise Sci & Recreat, Appl Muscle Dev Lab, Bronx, NY 10468 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500022	39	Article; Article		
J	Vural, Mehmet; Ozdal, Mustafa; Eyipinar, Cemre Didem; Demiryol, Mete Berk								High-Dose Caffeine Mouth Rinse Is an Effective Strategy for Isokinetic Strength Generation in Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				107	120		10.5114/jhk/20838			JUL 2026	2026	Caffeine supplementation is one of the most commonly used ergogenic aids among soccer players. However, research shows conflicting results regarding the effects of different caffeine forms on muscle strength and power. This study investigated the impact of a high-dose caffeine mouth rinse on isokinetic knee extensor and flexor strength of the dominant leg at high (180 degrees/s-1) and low (60 degrees/s-1) angular velocities. Eight young male soccer players were randomly assigned to three conditions. Ten seconds before the isokinetic strength tests, participants either rinsed with an aspartame solution containing 750 mg of caffeine (Experimental), a calorie-free aspartame solution (Placebo) or did not use any solution (Control). Participants continued the mouth rinse for 10 s. Isokinetic strength measurements were performed at angular velocities of 60 degrees/s-1 (5 repetitions) and 180 degrees/s-1 (15 repetitions) in all interventions. Peak torque (Nm), the H/Q ratio, time to peak torque (ms), and average peak torque (Nm) in extension and flexion were analyzed. Data were tested for normality using the Shapiro-Wilk test, followed by one-way ANOVA and LSD post hoc tests (significance set at p < 0.05). According to the results, a significant difference was found in the H/Q ratio and time to peak torque at the angular velocity of 60 degrees/s-1 (p < 0.05, eta & sup2; = 0.290; 0.306). At the angular velocity of 180 degrees/s-1, no significant differences were found among the interventions (p > 0.05). These findings suggest that a high dose of the caffeine mouth rinse was effective at the lower angular velocity (60 degrees/s-1), but had no effect on peak torque at the higher angular velocity (180 degrees/s-1).		[Vural, Mehmet; Ozdal, Mustafa] Gaziantep Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Coaching Educ Dept, Gaziantep, Turkiye; [Eyipinar, Cemre Didem] Gaziantep Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Phys Educ & Sports Teaching Dept, Gaziantep, Turkiye; [Demiryol, Mete Berk] Gaziantep Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Sport Management Dept, Gaziantep, Turkiye; [Demiryol, Mete Berk] Gaziantep Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Sport Management Dept, Gaziantep, Turkiye								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500009	59	Article; Article		
J	Becerra-Munoz, William; Perez-Tejero, Javier								Lineup Types and Key Variables for Success in Men's Paralympic Wheelchair Basketball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				277	288		10.5114/jhk/210187			JUL 2026	2026	Understanding team performance dynamics in wheelchair basketball (WB) is crucial for optimising lineup compositions for different game situations. This study aimed to investigate the impact of lineup composition and game time on performance in men's WB at the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games. Through the analysis of 588 lineups from 42 matches, key game-related statistics (GRS) that differentiated winning from losing lineups were identified. Seventy different lineup types (LTs) were clustered and categorised based on players' functional classification (FC) and their performance across time windows was examined. Discriminant analysis revealed that field goal efficiency, assists, and minimising opponent assists were crucial for success, regardless of game balance, emphasising the importance of both offensive and defensive efficacy. Clustering categorised LTs into three distinct groups, with those featuring predominantly intermediate-point players (2.0-3.5) exhibiting superior performance, particularly during extended playing time (over 10 minutes), indicating a strategic advantage for these compositions in sustaining high-level play. Top-ranked teams typically showed greater roster depth and a wider variation of LT utilisation. This research highlights the significance of strategic lineup composition, emphasising the sustained effectiveness of lineups with intermediate FC players. The findings provide valuable insights for coaches, aiding in data-driven decisions for lineup selection, game strategy optimisation, and functional player development within the specific demands of WB.		[Becerra-Munoz, William; Perez-Tejero, Javier] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fdn Sanitas Chair Inclus Sport Studies CEDI, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci,AFIPE Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Perez-Tejero, Javier] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fdn Sanitas Chair Inclus Sport Studies CEDI, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci,AFIPE Res Grp, Madrid, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500020	40	Article; Article		
J	Shi, Yuer; Peng, Wuwen; Qu, Wenhao; Luo, Yuanfu; Li, Duanying; Xue, Wenzhong; Chen, Tao; Sun, Jian								The Effects of Strength Training Tailored to Personalized Force-Velocity Curves on Speed and Change-of-Direction Ability of University Badminton Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				245	259		10.5114/jhk/207300			JUL 2026	2026	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of velocity-based resistance training (VBRT) and percentage-based resistance training (PBRT) on speed and change-of-direction ability in university badminton players. Thirty-three university-level players were divided into VBRT, PBRT, and control (CON) groups, training twice weekly for eight weeks. The VBRT group adjusted loads based on individual load-velocity profiles (LVPs). Post-intervention, both VBRT and PBRT groups showed significant improvements in the10-m sprint test, T-test for agility, hexagon jump test, and shuttle change of direction test performance (all p < 0.05), with no changes in the CON group. VBRT led to greater performance gains, with no significant difference in perceived exertion between VBRT and PBRT despite higher absolute loads for VBRT.		[Shi, Yuer; Peng, Wuwen; Qu, Wenhao; Sun, Jian] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sch Athlet Training, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Luo, Yuanfu; Li, Duanying] Xinhe Sch, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Xue, Wenzhong] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sch Wushu, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Chen, Tao] Guangzhou Sport China, Natl Acad Badminton, Badminton Tech & Tact Anal & Diagnost Lab, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Sun, Jian] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sch Athlet Training, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Xue, Wenzhong] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sch Wushu, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Chen, Tao] Guangzhou Sport China, Natl Acad Badminton, Badminton Tech & Tact Anal & Diagnost Lab, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500018	37	Article; Article		
J	Lopez-Sagarra, Andres; Rodriguez-Perez, Manuel A.; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Baena-Raya, Andres								The Acceleration-Speed Profile in Professional Soccer Players: A Comparative Study According to Sex, the Sports Level and the Playing Position								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				149	160		10.5114/jhk/220252			JUL 2026	2026	This study aimed to compare maximum acceleration and speed capabilities in professional soccer players, both derived from the acceleration-speed (AS) profile (theoretical maximum acceleration [A0] and speed [S0]) and direct assessment (maximum acceleration [MaxAcc] and speed [MaxSpeed]), according to both (i) sex and the sports level, and (ii) the playing position. A total of 737 professional women and men soccer players were monitored during 5-10 official matches. Data were collected using 18-Hz GPS devices to derive AS profiles and directly measure acceleration and speed output. Across all playing levels, professional men soccer players demonstrated significantly (p < 0.01) higher values than female players for A0 (d = 1.14-1.87), S0 (d = 3.88-4.82), MaxAcc (d = 0.57-1.22), and MaxSpeed (d = 2.46-2.81). Likewise, players of higher sports levels showed superior output than their lower counterparts (First Men's Division > Second Men's Division > Under 20 Men's Division; p < 0.05). Position-specific analysis revealed that midfielders had significantly (p < 0.05) lower MaxSpeed values than other positions such as full-backs (d = 0.63-1.17), wide midfielders (d = 0.82), and forwards (d = 0.67-1.06) in both the First and Second Divisions. Conversely, wide midfielders in the Under 20 Men's Division exhibited significantly (p < 0.05) higher A0 values than central defenders (d = 0.78). These findings highlight the importance of conducting sex- and position-specific analyses of the AS profile to effectively monitor acceleration and speed capacities across different sports levels in professional soccer.		[Lopez-Sagarra, Andres] Mexican Football Federat, Sports Sci Dept, Mexico City, Mexico; [Lopez-Sagarra, Andres; Rodriguez-Perez, Manuel A.; Baena-Raya, Andres] Univ Almeria, CIBIS Res Ctr, SPORT Res Grp CTS 1024, Almeria, Spain; [Rodriguez-Perez, Manuel A.] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Educ, Almeria, Spain; [Padron-Cabo, Alexis] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [Baena-Raya, Andres] Leiden Univ, Dept Med, Med Ctr, Div Endocrinol & Einthoven Lab Expt Vasc Med, Leiden, Netherlands; [Padron-Cabo, Alexis] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500012	47	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Joshua; Smith, David; Yan, Jun								Profiling NASCAR qualifying performance with functional data analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261460290				2026	NASCAR is the premier American motorsport, with millions of fans who tune in each week to watch drivers compete in a test of skill, endurance, and above all, speed. As with any sport, winning is paramount, and prior research has focused on modeling driver and team characteristics, as well as strategies to optimize race-day performance. However, no prior work has investigated ways to improve driver qualifying performance, a key factor that would naturally improve the likelihood of achieving a strong finishing position in the race that follows. To address this gap, we analyze qualifying lap data from the NASCAR AdventHealth400 using functional principal components analysis followed by agglomerative hierarchical clustering. This allows us to uncover distinct groups of drivers and extract typical behavior. We identify several braking, throttle, and steering strategies that are differentially associated with qualifying performance. By isolating the highest-performing clusters, we offer actionable insights that can be used to enhance qualifying efforts and, ultimately, race-day results.		[Lee, Joshua; Yan, Jun] Univ Connecticut, Stat, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Lee, Joshua] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, Stat & Appl Probabil, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA; [Smith, David] RFK Racing, Data Analyt, Charlotte, NC USA; [Lee, Joshua] Univ Connecticut, Stat, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Lee, Joshua] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, Stat & Appl Probabil, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001808281800001	21	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Obeng-Frimpong, Laura; Coleman, Damian A.; Fong, Daniel T. P.; Winter, Samantha L.								Neuromuscular electrical stimulation combined with dynamic multidirectional therapeutic exercise for chronic ankle instability: Effects on neuromuscular activation and functional outcomes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101950	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101950			JUL 2026	2026	Objectives: To compare the effects of a 4-week dynamic, multidirectional therapeutic exercise (TEx) programme alone versus TEx combined with neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) in individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Design: Randomised intervention study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Twenty physically active adults with CAI. Main outcome measures: Participants were randomised to either a TEx group or an NMES group. Both groups completed the same 4-week dynamic, multidirectional therapeutic exercise programme, while the NMES group received bilateral peroneal stimulation during exercise sessions. Outcomes included the Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT), the Lower Quadrant Y-Balance Test (LQ-YBT), and lower-limb muscle activation latency during inversion-simulation and drop-jump tasks. Results: Both groups improved CAIT scores post-intervention (p < 0.001), although only NMES maintained improvements at follow-up (p < 0.001). NMES demonstrated greater reductions in inversion-related muscle activation latency across multiple muscles, including tibialis anterior and peroneus longus (p < 0.05). Withingroup improvements in posteromedial, posterolateral, and composite LQ-YBT scores were observed in the TEx group (p < 0.05). Drop-jump outcomes demonstrated variable changes between groups. Conclusions: NMES combined with TEx may improve the timing of neuromuscular activation during inversionsimulation tasks, while TEx showed within-group improvements in some dynamic balance outcomes.		[Obeng-Frimpong, Laura; Fong, Daniel T. P.; Winter, Samantha L.] Loughborough Univ, Natl Ctr Sport & Exercise Med, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England; [Obeng-Frimpong, Laura; Coleman, Damian A.] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Sch Sci Psychol Arts & Humanities Comp Engn & Spor, Sect Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, North Holmes Rd, Canterbury CT1 1QU, England; [Obeng-Frimpong, Laura] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Sch Sci Psychol Arts & Humanities Comp Engn & Spor, Sect Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, North Holmes Rd, Canterbury CT1 1QU, England								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001816472200001	32	Article; Article		
J	Sundberg, Axel; Hogberg, Johan; Senorski, Rebecca Hamrin; Piussi, Ramana; Samuelsson, Kristian; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin								A novel clinic-friendly test protocol to assess quadriceps strength symmetry after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101942	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101942			JUL 2026	2026	Objectives To evaluate the reliability and validity of a clinic-friendly protocol using a weight-based knee extension (WBKE) machine to assess quadriceps symmetry after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction, compared to isokinetic dynamometry (IKD). Design Cross-sectional reliability and validity study. Setting Orthopedic rehabilitation and sports medicine clinic. Participants Seventy-four individuals (aged 16-50 years) between 6 and 14 months post-ACL reconstruction. Main outcome measures Test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation coefficients, ICC) and validity (limb symmetry index, Pearson's correlation, linear regression, Bland-Altman analysis) of WBKE compared to IKD. Results The WBKE test showed excellent test-retest reliability (ICC = 0.94-0.98). The limb symmetry index was 90.6% +/- 12.4% for IKD and 87.5% +/- 12.5% for WBKE, with a mean difference of -3.16% (95% CI: -4.8 to -1.5, p < 0.001). Bland-Altman analysis indicated 95% limits of agreement from 8.31% to -14.63%. The correlation between WBKE and IKD was strong (r = 0.89, 95% CI: 0.81-0.94, p < 0.001), supported by linear regression (R-2 = 0.79, p < 0.001). Conclusions The WBKE test demonstrated excellent reliability and strong validity for assessing quadriceps symmetry post-ACL reconstruction. It offers a practical, accessible alternative to isokinetic testing for monitoring strength recovery in clinical practice.		[Sundberg, Axel] Capio Ortho Ctr, Arvid Wallgrens Backe 4A, SE-41313 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Sundberg, Axel; Hogberg, Johan; Senorski, Rebecca Hamrin; Piussi, Ramana; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Univ Gothenburg, Dept Hlth & Rehabil, Unit Physiotherapy, Inst Neurosci & Physiol,Sahlgrenska Acad, Box 455, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Hogberg, Johan; Senorski, Rebecca Hamrin; Piussi, Ramana; Samuelsson, Kristian; Thomee, Roland] Sahlgrenska Sports Med Ctr, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Thomee, Roland] Sportrehab Sports Med Clin, Stampgatan 14, SE-41101 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Samuelsson, Kristian] Univ Gothenburg, Inst Clin Sci, Sahlgrenska Acad, Dept Orthopaed, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Samuelsson, Kristian] Sahlgrens Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Molndal, Sweden; [Sundberg, Axel] Univ Gothenburg, Box 455, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001803150400001	52	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Hyun-Chul; Park, Ki-Jun								The effect of a structured injury prevention program on injury severity and type in elite Adolescent and Young Adult Taekwondo athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101943	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101943			JUL 2026	2026	Objectives: To evaluate the effect of the 'Get Set-Train Smarter' warm-up program on injury incidence, type, and severity in elite Adolescent and Young Adult (AYA) Taekwondo athletes. Design: Cluster-randomized controlled trial. Setting: Training centers in South Korea. Participants: 362 elite AYA athletes aged >= 16). Main outcome measures: Injury incidence rate ratios (IRRs) per 1000 training hours, stratified by severity (Level I-III). Results: While overall injury incidence did not significantly differ between groups (IRR = 1.05, 95% CI 0.95-1.16, p = 0.336), the intervention group showed a 34% lower rate of severe (Level III) injuries (IRR = 1.51, 95% CI 1.19-1.92, p = 0.001). Furthermore, ligament injuries were significantly reduced in the intervention group (IRR = 1.42, 95% CI 1.18-1.72, p < 0.001), despite a modest increase in minor muscle injuries. Conclusions: The 'Get Set-Train Smarter' protocol is a critical tool for mitigating high-burden injuries. While overall incidence remains influenced by the sport's contact nature, reducing severe ligamentous injuries is a vital strategy for safeguarding long-term joint health. By shifting injury patterns from catastrophic ligamentous injuries to minor muscular injuries, this protocol minimizes career-altering trauma and supports the sustained participation and competitive longevity of elite combat athletes.		[Kim, Hyun-Chul] Korean Sport & Olymp Comm, Dept Med Ctr, Jincheon Gun, South Korea; [Park, Ki-Jun] Kaya Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Gimhae Si, South Korea; [Park, Ki-Jun] Kaya Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 208 Samgye Ro, Gimhae Si 50830, Gyeongsangnam D, South Korea; [Park, Ki-Jun] Kaya Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 208 Samgye Ro, Gimhae Si 50830, Gyeongsangnam D, South Korea								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001793306600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Taberner, M.; Allen, T.; Jordan, M.; Cohen, D. D.								Reframing a return to performance in elite team sports: a journey through complexity								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101938	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101938			JUL 2026	2026	Return to sport (RTS) in elite team sports is often portrayed as a linear pathway to clearance. Progression from injury to sustained performance contribution is complex and non-linear, particularly following severe injuries such as anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. Using the metaphor of 'We're Going on a Bear Hunt', this masterclass conceptualises return-to-performance (RTPe) as a journey through inevitable obstacles requiring coordinated, context-sensitive decision-making. Extending the RTS continuum, we emphasise the influence of early injury response, expectation setting, progressive loading strategies, and structured reintegration beyond return to competition. Evidence across elite team sports demonstrates that RTPe is injury-specific and highly variable: athletes may regain technical outputs yet still lack the capacity to tolerate and consistently reproduce performance under competitive demands. Isolated physical or technical metrics risk misrepresenting recovery if not interpreted within tactical, organisational, and psychological context. Importantly, RTPe may be perceived differently across stakeholders, each of whom may prioritise different outcomes and indicators of success. We propose that RTPe is a multidimensional, stakeholder-informed process integrating durability, role execution, confidence, and sustained availability. RTPe should therefore be understood not as a discrete milestone, but as a dynamic, context-dependent journey requiring adaptability, alignment, and an individualised lens to support sustainable performance outcomes.		[Taberner, M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Allen, T.] Arsenal Football Club, Performance & Res Dept, London, England; [Allen, T.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Football Performance Hub, Preston, England; [Jordan, M.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Integrat Neuromuscular Sport Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Cohen, D. D.] Univ Limerick, Limerick, Ireland; [Taberner, M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001822576700001	67	Article; Article		
J	Rostron, Zachary P. J.; Feller, Julian A.; McClelland, Jodie A.; Whitehead, Timothy S.; Webster, Kate E.								Change in modified star excursion balance test performance between 6 and 12 months after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101941	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101941			JUL 2026	2026	Objectives: To determine the change in modified star excursion balance test scores in patients between 6 and 12 months following anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction and the change in the proportion of patients who met recommended thresholds at each timepoint. A secondary aim was to assess whether change over time differed according to age, sex, graft type or activity level. Design: Longitudinal cohort. Setting: Orthopaedic Clinic. Participants: 115 patients that completed 6-and 12-month testing after ACL reconstruction. Main outcome measures: Modified star excursion balance test scores (composite and individual reach scores). Results: There was a significant increase of test scores for the surgical limb at 12-months compared to 6-months (p < 0.005) with no differences in limb symmetry index. Most patients (92%) reached threshold composite scores >90% equivalent to individual leg length at 6-months. This proportion did not change at 12-months. Patient-related factors had no effect on change in test scores across time. Conclusions: The modified star excursion balance test may be more applicable to assess dynamic balance performance 6-months post-surgery. Almost all patients met pre-determined criteria for dynamic balance performance by 6-months following surgery. There was no impact of patient age, sex, graft type or activity level on change in performance between 6-and 12-months		[Rostron, Zachary P. J.; Feller, Julian A.; McClelland, Jodie A.; Webster, Kate E.] Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Plenty Rd, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Feller, Julian A.; Whitehead, Timothy S.] Epworth Healthcare, OrthoSport Victoria, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Webster, Kate E.] Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Plenty Rd, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001793208700001	21	Article; Article		
J	Gao, Yu; Sinsurin, Komsak; Vachalathiti, Roongtiwa; Areerak, Kantheera; Irawan, Dimas Sondang								Assessing side-to-side injury risk and reliability of the modified landing error scoring system (LESS-M) in youth basketball athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101937	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101937			JUL 2026	2026	Objective: To explore the risk of non-contact anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury in basketball players, with a specific focus on comparing dominant (DL) and non-dominant limbs (NDL) assessed with the LESS-M and tested the LESS-M reliability. Design: Observational study. Setting: Field-based testing. Participants: Thirty-six youth basketball players (31 males, 5 females; average BMI 21.35 +/- 1.98 kg/m2). Main outcome measures: LESS-M total scores of DL and NDL, and intraclass correlation coefficient ICC(2,1) and ICC(2,k) reliability. Results: The LESS-M total scores were no statistically significant side-to-side difference (p = 0.327) between DL (4.11 +/- 1.16) and NDL (4.28 +/- 1.36). The LESS-M demonstrated good intra-and inter-rater reliability, with ICC(2,1) = 0.789 and ICC(2,k) = 0.803, respectively. Conclusion: The risk of non-contact ACL injury assessed using the LESS-M was similar between the DL and NDL in basketball players. The LESS-M demonstrated good reliability and may be a practical screening tool for movement assessment in basketball athletes. Future prospective studies are needed to establish cut-off values and explore its application in injured populations.		[Gao, Yu; Sinsurin, Komsak; Areerak, Kantheera] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech & Sports Res Unit, Nakhon Pathom 73170, Thailand; [Vachalathiti, Roongtiwa] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Musculoskeletal Phys Therapy Res Unit, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Irawan, Dimas Sondang] Univ Muhammadiyah Malang, Fac Hlth Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, Malang, Indonesia; [Sinsurin, Komsak] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech & Sports Res Unit, Nakhon Pathom 73170, Thailand								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001786233200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Hickey, Jack; Carmody, Sean; Ranson, Joe; Ahmad, Imtiaz; Weaving, Dan; White, Ryan; Cronin, Kevin								Biceps femoris long head muscle architecture in professional male soccer players with a recent history of T-junction hamstring injury: a preliminary case-control study in an English Premier League club								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101936	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101936			JUL 2026	2026	Objectives To describe and compare biceps femoris long head (BFlh) muscle architecture between limbs with and without a recent history of T-junction hamstring injury. Design Case-control study. Setting English Premier League club. Main outcome measures Participants were 30 professional male soccer players, including 5 cases with recent history of unilateral T-junction hamstring injury and 25 controls with no recent history of any hamstring injury. Participants had their BFlh fascicle length (FL), pennation angle (PA) and muscle thickness (MT) assessed bilaterally using wide-field-of-view ultrasound. Paired t-tests compared FL, PA and MT between previously injured (left) BFlh and contralateral uninjured (right) BFlh within cases. Un-paired t-tests compared left BFlh - right BFlh (asymmetry) in these measures between the case and control groups. Results Within cases, MT was significantly less in previously injured compared to contralateral uninjured BFlh (p < 0.01; mean paired difference [95%CI] = -0.48 cm [-0.59 cm to -0.36 cm]). Asymmetry in BFlh muscle thickness was significantly larger in the case group compared to control group (p < 0.01; between-group mean difference [95%CI] = -0.51 cm [-0.64 cm to -0.37 cm]). BFlh FL and PA did not differ significantly within cases, or between the case and control groups. Conclusion Between-limb deficits in BFlh MT exist following T-junction hamstring injury.		[Hickey, Jack] Maynooth Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Nutr, Maynooth, Ireland; [Hickey, Jack] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Melbourne, Australia; [Carmody, Sean; Ranson, Joe; Ahmad, Imtiaz; White, Ryan] Crystal Palace Football Club, Beckenham, England; [Weaving, Dan] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk, England; [Weaving, Dan] Univ Newcastle, Appl Sports Sci & Exercise Testing Lab, Newcastle, NSW, Australia; [Cronin, Kevin] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Med, Dublin, Ireland; [Hickey, Jack] Maynooth Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Nutr, Maynooth, Ireland								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001775546300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Oh, Minsub; Hopkins, J. Ty								Chronic pain severity influences peak torque and force control in patients with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101935	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101935			JUL 2026	2026	Objective: The aim is to investigate the influence of chronic pain severity on peak torque and force control in chronic ankle instability (CAI) patients. Design: Cross-sectional study. Participants: Sixty participants were divided into three groups: 20 high pain patients with CAI (high pain), 20 low pain patients with CAI (low pain), and 20 healthy controls (control). Main outcome measures: Participants performed three maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MVICs) and four force steadiness trials on the Biodex dynamometer (two at 10% and two at 20% of MVIC) for the evertors, invertors, and hip abductors. Results: The high pain group showed decreased peak torque in ankle evertors and hip abductors compared to the low pain group. The high pain group showed decreased peak torque in ankle evertors, invertors, and hip abductors compared to the control group. The high pain group showed worse force steadiness at 10% and 20% of MVIC and accuracy at 10% of MVIC in ankle evertors and hip abductors than the low pain and control groups. Conclusions: CAI patients with high pain exhibit significant deficits in peak torque and force control across both ankle and hip musculature compared to those with low pain and healthy controls.		[Oh, Minsub; Hopkins, J. Ty] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Oh, Minsub] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001776456500001	29	Article; Article		
J	Wilson, Oliver W. A.; Richards, Justin; Walters, Simon; Whatman, Chris								Avoiding the Sports (Med) Specialist: The association between sport specialisation and injury among young people in New Zealand								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101914	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101914			JUL 2026	2026	Objectives: To investigate (i) the prevalence of sport specialisation among New Zealand youth and differences based on age, gender and sport, and (ii) the association between specialisation level and injury history. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Sport NZ's Voice-of-the-Participant online survey. Participants: 15,334 youth aged 8-17 years, across eight major sports. Main outcome measures: Demographic data (age, gender, ethnicity), sport participation hours, specialisation level (low, moderate, high), and injury history over the past 12 months. Results: Overall, 12% of youth were highly specialised, with sport-specific variation (range 3-20%). High specialisation increased with age and was more common in males than females. Relative to low specialisation, the odds of reporting an injury were higher for moderate (OR = 1.25, 95% CI [1.14-1.35]) and high (OR = 1.53, 95% CI [1.36-1.72]) specialisation levels. This trend held across age and gender groups, though the magnitude of association varied by sport. Conclusion: Sport specialisation is present in NZ young people, increases with age and varies by sport. Findings suggest there is an association between the degree of specialisation and injury history. This association is consistent across age groups and genders but varies across sports.		[Wilson, Oliver W. A.; Richards, Justin] Victoria Univ Wellington, Hau Kori, Wellington, New Zealand; [Richards, Justin] Sport New Zealasnd Ihi Aotearoa, Wellington, New Zealand; [Walters, Simon; Whatman, Chris] Auckland Univ Technol, AUT Sports Res Inst NZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Whatman, Chris] Auckland Univ Technol, AUT Sports Res Inst NZ, Auckland, New Zealand								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001768089700001	27	Article; Article		
J	Padovan, Riccardo; Toninelli, Nicholas; Longo, Stefano; Tornatore, Gianpaolo; Esposito, Fabio; Ce, Emiliano; Coratella, Giuseppe								High-Density Surface Electromyography Excitation in Front vs. Sack Overhead Press Prime Movers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				81	96		10.5114/jhk/205466			JUL 2026	2026	The current study compared the spatial excitation of the prime movers when performing the overhead press with the barbell passing in front (front-OHP) or behind the neck (back-OHP) using high-density surface electromyography (HD-sEMG). Fourteen resistance trained men performed both exercises within a non-fatiguing set with 8-RM as the external load. The HD-sEMG amplitude and the muscle excitation centroid of anterior deltoid, lateral deltoid, posterior deltoid, upper trapezius, pectoralis major and triceps brachii muscles were recorded during the ascending and the descending phase. During the ascending phase, the front-OHP showed a superior HD-sEMG amplitude of the anterior deltoid (ES = 1.03) and the pectoralis major (ES = 0.70). During the descending phase, the front-OHP showed a superior HD-sEMG amplitude of the anterior deltoid (ES = 1.00) and the pectoral major (ES = 0.74), while the back-OHP showed superior excitation of the posterior deltoid (ES = 1.11), the upper trapezius (ES = 0.72) and triceps brachii (ES = 2.01). During the ascending phase, the front-OHP showed a more medial centroid of the lateral deltoid (ES = 2.30). During the descending phase, the front-OHP showed a more lateral centroid of the lateral deltoid (ES = 0.87), whereas the centroid of the posterior deltoid (ES = 0.63) and the triceps brachii (ES = 0.68) was more medial. Additionally, the centroid was more cranial in the front-vs. the back-OHP for the posterior deltoid (ES = 1.10), while for the pectoralis major the centroid was more caudal (ES = 0.62). The front-and back-OHP appeared to provide different overall excitation in the prime movers. Moreover, distinct spatial excitation patterns were observed, making both exercises suitable for the training routine.		[Padovan, Riccardo; Toninelli, Nicholas; Longo, Stefano; Tornatore, Gianpaolo; Esposito, Fabio; Ce, Emiliano; Coratella, Giuseppe] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Padovan, Riccardo] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500007	60	Article; Article		
J	Gottlieb, Roni; Greenberg, Shai								The Effect of a Novel Dynamic Hamstring Brace on Muscle and Athletic Performance Tests among Young Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				121	131		10.5114/jhk/209073			JUL 2026	2026	A hamstring injury is the most incurred musculoskeletal injury in sports, with high recurrence rates. This study evaluated a novel dynamic hamstring brace on the athletic performance of young male basketball players. The study included 13 healthy adolescent basketball players (aged M = 14 +/- 0.6 yrs) who underwent two sets of six performance tests on two different days. Participants wore the dynamic brace for one set of tests (research) and then performed the same tests without the brace (control). Isolated hamstring tests included the end-range hamstring-strength test and the single-leg bridge test. Performance tests included horizontal explosive 10-m and 20-m sprints, vertical explosive countermovement jumps, and squat jump tests. The findings indicate improved outcomes when wearing the dynamic brace compared to the control condition. A significant increase was seen in the single-leg bridge test (M = 30 +/- 4 and 23.5 +/- 5 repetitions, respectively, p < 0.01), while a significant decrease was observed in the 10-m sprint test (M = 2.01 +/- 0.1 and 1.88 +/- 0.1 s, respectively, p < 0.05). No significant differences were found in other tests. In conclusion, the novel brace presented in this study could reduce hamstring injuries, with little impact on athletic performance.		[Gottlieb, Roni; Greenberg, Shai] Levinsky Wingate Acad Coll, Sch Human Movement & Sport Sci, Wingate Campus, Netanya, Israel; [Gottlieb, Roni] Levinsky Wingate Acad Coll, Sch Human Movement & Sport Sci, Wingate Campus, Netanya, Israel								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500010	36	Article; Article		
J	Martinez, Rafael; Sanz, Alejandro; Huertas, Florentino; Byrne, Paul J.; Martinez-Gramage, Javier								Vertical Stiffness, Pelvic Tilt Range and Jump Height during Vertical Jumping in Youth Soccer: Influence of Age, Sex and the Playing Position								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				69	80		10.5114/jhk/204868			JUL 2026	2026	This study aimed to examine the influence of sex, age, and the playing position on vertical stiffness, pelvic tilt range, and jump height during vertical jumping in young soccer players. A total of 542 players (129 females, 413 males) aged 12 to 19 years from elite soccer academies participated. Players were divided into U14, U16, and U19 categories, and jump height, vertical stiffness, and pelvic tilt range were evaluated using the countermovement jump (CMJ) with an inertial sensor. Results revealed that vertical stiffness and jump height were significantly higher in males than females (p < 0.001) and significantly increased with age in males only from U14 to U16, U16 to U19 and U14 to U19 (p < 0.01 to p = 0.015). Pelvic tilt range was significantly greater in females only (p < 0.001), with forwards showing larger pelvic tilt range than midfielders (p = 0.023), though no differences were found by age. The analysis of the playing position showed no significant differences in vertical stiffness or jump height, suggesting that these variables were more influenced by biological and sex-related factors rather than positional roles during developmental stages. These findings provide normative data that can aid in the design of individualized training programs aimed at optimizing performance and reducing injury risk in youth soccer players.		[Martinez, Rafael] Catholic Univ Valencia San Vicente Martir, Doctoral Sch, Valencia, Spain; [Martinez, Rafael; Sanz, Alejandro; Huertas, Florentino] Catholic Univ Valencia San Vicente Martir, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Valencia, Spain; [Byrne, Paul J.] South East Technol Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Kilkenny Rd Campus, Carlow, Ireland; [Martinez-Gramage, Javier] Univ Cardenal Herrera CEU, CEU Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, Fac Hlth Sci, Valencia, Spain; [Huertas, Florentino] Catholic Univ Valencia San Vicente Martir, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Valencia, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500006	44	Article; Article		
J	Erkizia, Benat; Casamichana, David; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Barba, Eider; Castellano, Julen								Comparison of the Most Demanding Periods in Three Categories of Female's Soccer: A Double View from the Player and the Team								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				201	214		10.5114/jhk/207258			JUL 2026	2026	This study is the first to quantify most demanding periods (MDPs) at both the individual (player) and the team level across three teams. It provides reference values for three external load variables across four time windows (of 1, 3, 5 and 10 min). The findings revealed that Professional (PRO) and Reserve (RES) teams covered more distance than the Academy (ACA) team in a 1-min window (w1), with the PRO team also covering greater distances at >18 km center dot h(-1) in the w1. Additionally, PRO and RES teams experienced more accelerations in 1- and 3-min windows, with the PRO team showing higher values than the RES team in the 5-min window (w5). Players in PRO and RES teams ran longer distances and performed more accelerations than those in the ACA team, especially in 1-, 3-, and 5-min windows. No significant differences in MDPs were observed between the first and second halves for any team, but significant differences in distance covered were noted for PRO and ACA players in specific time windows. The main findings highlight superior locomotor and mechanical responses in PRO and RES players compared to ACA players, particularly in shorter time windows (w1, w3, and w5).		[Erkizia, Benat; Casamichana, David; Barba, Eider] Real Soc Futbol SAD, Real Soc Inst, Donostia San Sebastian, Spain; [Erkizia, Benat; Barba, Eider; Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Vitoria, Spain; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci & Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Erkizia, Benat] Real Soc Futbol SAD, Real Soc Inst, Donostia San Sebastian, Spain; [Erkizia, Benat] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Vitoria, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500015	42	Article; Article		
J	Li, Zheng; Qin, Shenglei; Li, Xiaotian; Ren, Dingmeng								Collegiate Male Soccer Players Reporting Their Perceived Exertion: Differences in Internal and External Intensity between Different RPE Values and Zones								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				133	148		10.5114/jhk/209543			JUL 2026	2026	This study aimed to: (1) investigate the association between subjective perception (RPE, sRPE) and objective metrics (TRIMP, average HR and peak HR both expressed as %HRmax, total distance, PlayerLoadTM, acceleration distance > 1 m/s2, and running distance >= 14 km/h) in training monitoring using a repeated-measure design, and (2) assess the utility of RPE levels (values and zones) in differentiating among particular training intensities. This study used a longitudinal study design. Fifteen collegiate male soccer players (age 19.6 +/- 0.8 years, body height 179.1 +/- 5.4 cm, body mass 70.8 +/- 4.9 kg, BMI 22.1 +/- 1.7 kg/m2, body fat rate 10.9 +/- 2.3%, HRrest 56.6 +/- 8.0, HRmax 194.9 +/- 7.3) participated in the study. GPS-based wearable devices and the RPE scale were used to training monitoring. Based on 676 observations from 69 training sessions, a moderate to large correlation was found between the SRPE and internal/external loads (r ranges from 0.34 to 0.60, p < 0.001), while a small to moderate correlation was observed between the RPE and internal/external intensity (r ranges from 0.11 to 0.35, p < 0.001). When distributing training intensity, significant effects were found between RPE values and RPE zones (p < 0.05). Our study provides evidence for understanding the relationship between the subjective load assessment method (RPE and sRPE) and objective methods. Specific ranges of internal and external intensity variables can be divided between RPE value (1-9 AU) and the RPE zone (low, moderate, high).		[Li, Zheng; Qin, Shenglei; Ren, Dingmeng] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Qin, Shenglei] Catapult Sports, APAC Team, Melbourne, Australia; [Li, Xiaotian] Cent South Univ, Phys Educ Dept, Changsha, Peoples R China; [Li, Xiaotian] Wuhan Sports Univ, Sch Sport Training, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Ren, Dingmeng] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Xiaotian] Cent South Univ, Phys Educ Dept, Changsha, Peoples R China; [Li, Xiaotian] Wuhan Sports Univ, Sch Sport Training, Wuhan, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500011	61	Article; Article		
J	D'Hondt, Joachim; Vanhoudt, Mara; Dani, Maluta; Chapelle, Laurent; Aerenhouts, Dirk								Does a Muscle Fatigue-Inducing Protocol Alter the Magnitude of Jump Inter-Limb Asymmetry in Healthy Adolescents?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				57	68		10.5114/jhk/205705			JUL 2026	2026	This study examined changes in jump asymmetry in adolescents over a 72-hour period following a muscle fatigue-inducing protocol. Single-leg 10-s hop jump (SL10J), single-leg countermovement jump (SLCMJ), and single-leg horizontal jump (SLHJ) asymmetries were measured at baseline, immediately post-exercise, and at 24, 48, and 72 h post-exercise in 7 female and 16 male adolescents aged 12-18 years. The bioelectrical impedance analysis derived segmental phase angle and ECW/TBW were used as indicators of muscle damage for each leg, while the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) assessed muscle soreness and the bilateral countermovement jump (BCMJ) and the bilateral horizontal jump (BHJ) indicated changes in absolute jump performance. A significant increase in SL10J asymmetry was observed 48 hours post-exercise (p < 0.001), while no significant changes were detected immediately post-exercise or at 24 and 72 h. No significant changes were found in SLCMJ or SLHJ asymmetry at any time point. BIA did not indicate significant muscle damage, though a significant increase in muscle soreness (VAS), peaking at 48 h post-exercise, was recorded. The kappa values indicated slight to moderate agreement for task specificity and slight to substantial agreement for time specificity, with the highest consistency between 24 and 48 h post-exercise for both the SLCMJ and the SL10J. To conclude, asymmetry significantly increased only for the SL10J at 48 h post-exercise, suggesting that repeated jump tests may be more sensitive to fatigue-induced asymmetry than single-jump tests. The substantial kappa values at 24 and 48 h highlight the potential to offer a more robust assessment of asymmetry when recovering from a fatigue-inducing event.		[D'Hondt, Joachim; Vanhoudt, Mara; Dani, Maluta; Chapelle, Laurent; Aerenhouts, Dirk] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Movement & Nutr Hlth & Performance MOVE Res Grp, Brussels, Belgium; [D'Hondt, Joachim] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Movement & Nutr Hlth & Performance MOVE Res Grp, Brussels, Belgium								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500005	38	Article; Article		
J	Aimkosa, Ratakorn; Tirosh, Oren; Genderton, Charlotte; El-Ansary, Doa; Adams, Roger; Han, Jia								Effects of Soccer Soot Insoles on Muscle Activity and Ankle Inversion Proprioception in Drop Landing Tasks in Patients with and without Chronic Ankle Instability								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				103				27	41		10.5114/jhk/205685			JUL 2026	2026	Chronic ankle instability (CAI) poses challenges in sports. Textured insoles are a promising intervention for optimizing ankle muscle activity and enhancing ankle proprioceptive ability in individuals with CAI. This study investigated the effects of different types of insoles on ankle muscle activity and ankle inversion proprioception during drop-landing tasks. Thirty-two soccer players (16 CAI, 16 non-CAI) participated in the study. Electromyographic (EMG) activity of the tibialis anterior (TA), medial gastrocnemius (MG), and peroneus longus (PL) muscles was recorded during drop-landing tasks using the ankle inversion discrimination apparatus for landing (AIDAL) with textured insoles (TI) and standard flat insoles (SI). Ankle inversion proprioception was assessed using the AIDAL. Muscle activity was analyzed for pre- and initial contact phases. CAI players showed significantly reduced TA activity compared to non-CAI players during both pre-initial (2.62 +/- 1.86 vs. 5.53 +/- 5.15; p = 0.04) and initial contact phases (18.7 +/- 13.6 vs. 29.9 +/- 20.6; p = 0.01). CAI players also exhibited greater MG activity during pre-initial (16 +/- 6.15 vs. 12.5 +/- 6.38; p = 0.03) and initial contact phases (60.8 +/- 32.5 vs. 41.5 +/- 14.8; p = 0.004), and higher PL activity during the pre-initial contact phase (7.39 +/- 4.75 vs. 4.28 +/- 2.83; p = 0.003). No significant CAI/insole main effects or interactions (p > 0.05) were observed in AIDAL proprioceptive scores. Overall, CAI players showed significant alterations in ankle muscle activity during drop-landing tasks. Increased PL activity during the pre-initial contact phase may serve as a compensatory strategy to enhance ankle stability, while reduced TA and increased MG activation during pre-initial and initial contact phases may contribute to the high incidence of recurrent ankle sprains in CAI individuals. Additionally, the lack of immediate effects from insoles on muscle activity suggests that their influence on sensory input and foot positioning may require prolonged use to induce measurable neuromuscular adaptations.		[Aimkosa, Ratakorn; Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Aimkosa, Ratakorn] Mae Fah Luang Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Chaing Rai, Thailand; [Tirosh, Oren; Genderton, Charlotte; El-Ansary, Doa] RMIT Univ, Sch Hlth & Biomed Sci, Melbourne, Australia; [Adams, Roger] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001845443500003	42	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Gabriel; Costa, Israel; Bell, Lee; Anyadike-Danes, Kechi; Casanova, Filipe; Baptista, Ivan; Ramos, Ana; Afonso, Jose								Learn to perform and perform to learn: A survey about how professional soccer coaches balance planning for learning and performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261462364				2026	This study aimed to explore how professional soccer coaches perceive and manage the balance between short-term performance and long-term learning. A sample of 118 coaches [head-coaches (61%); from Portugal (75%); UEFA-B (47%) or UEFA-A (25%)] from elite and national-level teams participated in a cross-sectional online survey addressing planning strategies across different temporal scales. Topics included long and medium-term planning and short and very short - term programming. Although coaches acknowledged the importance of learning, the planning strategies ended up focusing more on short-term performance, potentially constraining development across the season. The predominant programming models were daily load alternation (50%) and Tactical Periodization (39%). Most coaches (67%) maintained a consistent microcycle structure throughout the season. The microcycle structure was deeply associated with the specific contents in terms of their nature and demands, with contents strongly linked to specific training days within the microcycle. This rigid approach may stereotype training processes and negatively impact long-term learning opportunities. We suggest coaches adopt context-sensitive methodologies that attempt to balance immediate match demands with long-term team and player learning and development. We hope this study contributes to an evidence-informed dialogue between coaches and scientists to better harmonize immediate success and sustainable player development in professional soccer.		[Silva, Gabriel; Baptista, Ivan; Ramos, Ana; Afonso, Jose] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat Intervent Sport CIFI2D, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal; [Costa, Israel] Univ Fed Vicosa, Ctr Res & Studies Soccer NUPEF, Dept Phys Educ, Vicosa, Brazil; [Bell, Lee] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sch Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, England; [Anyadike-Danes, Kechi] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Intervent Res Exercise Training, Cologne, Germany; [Casanova, Filipe] Lusofona Univ, Ctr Invest Desporto Educ Fis Exercicio & Saude CID, Lisbon, Portugal; [Baptista, Ivan] UiT Arctic Univ Norway, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Comp Sci, Tromso, Norway; [Silva, Gabriel] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat Intervent Sport CIFI2D, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001804744300001	47	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Harringe, Marita L.; Sonesson, Sofi; Tigerstrand, Hanna; Kvist, Joanna								Mindset, Effort, and Support-the foundation for patients' decision to return to sport after an anterior cruciate ligament injury. A qualitative analysis from the NACOX Cohort								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101946	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101946			JUL 2026	2026	Objectives: To explore what determines patients' decisions to return to sport (RTS) after an ACL-injury, treated with or without reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Prospective multicentre cohort study. Participants: 275 patients with acute ACL-injury treated according to clinical practice were followed. Main outcome measure: Answers to the free-text question: "What determined your decision to RTS?", analysed using qualitative content analysis. Results: 134 patients reported RTS and 112 of these (56% after ACLR), answered the question. A total of 271 meaning units were condensed into 50 codes, nine subcategories, and three categories: "motivation and driving forces", "treatment and recovery", "medical clearance and readiness", with the overarching theme "mindset, effort, and support-the foundation for patients' decision to RTS". Answers were similar regardless of ACL treatment (ACLR or not). Passion for sport and willpower were strong motivators, outweighing shortcomings and fears. Structured rehabilitation, combined with patients' engagement, hard work, self-perceived readiness, and support from surrounding personnel, including medical clearance, were other factors influencing patients' decision to RTS. Conclusions: The theme, capturing the key components "mindset, effort, and support", summarises what determined patients' decisions to RTS. This may help clinicians identify what to emphasise during the long and demanding process from injury to RTS.		[Harringe, Marita L.; Sonesson, Sofi; Tigerstrand, Hanna; Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, SE-58183 Linkoping, Sweden; [Harringe, Marita L.] Karolinska Inst, Stockholm Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Mol Med & Surg, Stockholm, Sweden; [Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, SE-58183 Linkoping, Sweden								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001811607600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Ly, Victoria; Brown, Justin; Erdman, Emily; To, Matthew; Chou, Eric H.								Injury incidence and risk factors in youth American football versus soccer: a national emergency department analysis								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2691689				2026	Objective To compare the incidence, characteristics, and risk factors of injuries among youth athletes participating in American football and soccer in the United States, with a focus on injuries presenting to emergency departments (EDs) and factors associated with hospitalization. Methods A retrospective analysis of the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database from 2014 to 2023 was conducted. Youth athletes aged 5-10 years (childhood), 11-13 years (early adolescence) and 14-18 years (adolescence) presenting to EDs with football- or soccer-related injuries were included. NEISS provides nationally representative estimates based on a stratified sample of approximately 100 hospital EDs and includes demographic characteristics, injury diagnoses, body regions affected, and patient disposition. Weighted national estimates, standard errors, and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. Multivariable regression analysis was performed to identify risk factors associated with hospitalization. Results During the 10-year study period, 110,521 injury cases were identified in the NEISS sample, representing an estimated 3,228,911 injuries nationally (95% CI: 2,431,796-4,027,828). Of these, American football accounted for a significantly greater proportion of injuries than soccer (64.7% vs. 35.3%, p < 0.001). No significant temporal increase in injury incidence was observed for either sport between 2014 and 2023. Compared with soccer, football demonstrated significantly higher injury rates across all body regions, including the head/neck, trunk, and extremities (p < 0.001). Multivariable logistic regression identified several factors associated with increased odds of hospitalization, including adolescents aged 14-18 years (OR 1.13, 95% CI 1.02-1.26), male gender (OR 1.92, 95% CI 1.59-2.33), Hispanic ethnicity (OR 1.07, 95% CI 1.02-1.12), and football-related injuries (OR 1.34, 95% CI 1.20-1.50). Conclusions Youth athletes participating in American football experience significantly more injuries and a higher risk of hospitalization compared with those participating in soccer. These findings highlight the need for targeted injury prevention strategies aimed at reducing injury severity in youth football.		[Ly, Victoria; Brown, Justin; Erdman, Emily; To, Matthew; Chou, Eric H.] Baylor Scott & White All St Med Ctr, Dept Emergency Med, 1400 8th Ave, Ft Worth, TX 76104 USA; [Chou, Eric H.] TCU, Burnett Sch Med, Dept Emergency Med, Ft Worth, TX USA; [Chou, Eric H.] Minist Hlth & Welf, Taipei Hosp, Dept Emergency Med, New Taipei City, Taiwan; [Chou, Eric H.] Baylor Scott & White All St Med Ctr, Dept Emergency Med, 1400 8th Ave, Ft Worth, TX 76104 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001803460800001	38	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Le Moan, Dorian; Phomsoupha, Michael								Collision detection in rugby union using MEMS and machine learning: Comparison of collision intensity between senior professional and elite U20 players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261462000				2026	Rugby union is a high intensity contact sport where collision events are key determinants of match outcomes, yet the intensity profiles during the transition from elite under-20 (U20) to Senior professional (SP) levels remain poorly described. This study aimed to (i) characterise collision intensity profiles using wearable microelectromechanical systems across sixteen Elite U20 (U20) and twenty-six Senior professional matches, (ii) compare collision frequency and intensity between SP and U20 players, and (iii) examine positional differences in collision demands within each competition level, employing a Random Forest algorithm to classify collisions into six intensity zones (IZ) and determine Mean Maximal Collision Intensity (MMCI). The results reveal that SP players are exposed to a significantly greater collision frequency than U20 players in nearly all intensity zones (p < 0.05), with the most pronounced differences occurring in high-intensity zones IZ 5 (8.01-10.0 g; +17%) and IZ 6 (> 10.01 g; +36%). Furthermore, SP players experienced a significantly higher MMCI than U20 players (11.3 +/- 1.2 g vs. 10.9 +/- 1.4 g; p < 0.05). These differences were highly position-dependent, with inside backs and loose forwards showing the largest contrasts in exposure. These findings indicate that the progression to professional rugby is characterized by an increase in mechanical severity per contact event rather than a uniform increase in frequency. Consequently, strength and conditioning coaches should implement progressive, position-specific contact conditioning to safely prepare U20 players for the heightened physical demands of the Senior professional game.		[Le Moan, Dorian] French Inst Sport INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, Paris, France; [Le Moan, Dorian] Univ Paris Cite, Paris, France; [Phomsoupha, Michael] Univ Catholique Ouest, Inst Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Angers, France; [Le Moan, Dorian] French Inst Sport INSEP, 11 Ave Tremblay, F-75012 Paris, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001804117600001	38	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Chiu, Bryan Weisheng; Byon, Kevin K.								Past, present and future of the international journal of sports marketing and sponsorship: a bibliometric analysis (2007-2024)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0326				2026	Purpose This study aims to conduct a bibliometric analysis of the International Journal of Sports Marketing and Sponsorship (IJSMS), examining publication and citation trends, influential contributors, thematic evolution and intellectual structure to inform future research in sport marketing and sponsorship.Design/methodology/approach The study employs bibliometric techniques, utilizing data from the Web of Science (WoS) database. A total of 511 documents published in IJSMS from 2007 to 2024 were analyzed using the Bibliometrix R package for descriptive analysis and science mapping.Findings The findings reveal a steady growth in IJSMS publications. Sponsorship remains a central research theme, while emerging topics include digital marketing, fan psychology and corporate social responsibility. Leading authors, including Young Jae Ko, Kevin K. Byon and James J. Zhang, have significantly shaped the journal's intellectual landscape. Several most-cited articles focus on technological innovations, such as esports and wearable technologies. The co-citation analysis reveals three distinct knowledge clusters: methodological foundations, sponsorship and branding theories, and sport consumer psychology. These patterns indicate a field anchored in sponsorship while diversifying into digital platforms and fan psychology, positioning IJSMS as a bridge between sport-specific and mainstream marketing scholarship.Originality/value This study is the first comprehensive bibliometric analysis of IJSMS, offering valuable insights into the journal's contributions to sport marketing and sponsorship research. Beyond documenting publication patterns, this analysis distinguishes between theoretical advancement and topic expansion in the field. It highlights emerging themes and interdisciplinary trends, providing a foundation for future research directions in digital transformation, sustainability and global consumer engagement.		[Chiu, Bryan Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Byon, Kevin K.] Southern Methodist Univ, Dept Appl Physiol & Sport Management, Dallas, TX 75205 USA; [Byon, Kevin K.] Southern Methodist Univ, Dept Appl Physiol & Sport Management, Dallas, TX 75205 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001798581300001	75	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Senel, Ender; Adilogullari, Ilhan; Ulucan, Hakki; Karatarla, Gonca								Protective factors for burnout and turnover intention in sports team coaches: Individual and environmental dynamics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261458102				2026	This research investigates the protective mechanisms against burnout and turnover intentions among sports team coaches, focusing on the interplay between environmental and individual psychological resources. Based on a structural model involving 320 coaches, the study explores how perceived social support from both within and outside the sporting environment influences psychological safety, job satisfaction, and mental well-being. The findings demonstrate that social support is a fundamental antecedent that significantly enhances psychological safety and buffers against the high-pressure demands of competitive coaching. Psychological safety, in particular, acts as a significant mediator, fostering a secure professional environment and thereby reducing the cognitive load and emotional exhaustion associated with performance-contingent job security. Furthermore, the analysis reveals that high levels of psychological resilience, job satisfaction, and overall well-being are negatively correlated with the intention to leave the profession. By integrating the Job Demands-Resources (JD-R) and Conservation of Resources (COR) theories, the study highlights that external support systems are essential for cultivating the internal resilience necessary to mitigate burnout. Ultimately, the paper argues that sports organisations must prioritise the development of supportive and psychologically safe climates to ensure the long-term health and retention of coaching staff.		[Senel, Ender] Mugla Sitki Kocman Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Mugla, Turkiye; [Adilogullari, Ilhan] Canakkale Onsekiz Mart Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Canakkale, Turkiye; [Ulucan, Hakki] Erciyes Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Kayseri, Turkiye; [Karatarla, Gonca] Erciyes Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Kayseri, Turkiye; [Senel, Ender] Mugla Sitki Kocman Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Mugla, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001799602000001	92	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Jones, Ashley; Quiney, Rupert; Kelvey, Sam; Travis, Eleanor; Cranswick, Ieuan; Brogden, Chris; Eisenmann, Joey; Till, Kevin; Helme, Mark								Modelling the development of physical qualities in UK youth male ice hockey players by chronological and biological age								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261453049				2026	Ice hockey in the United Kingdom (UK) spans from grassroots participation to elite and international levels, yet limited data exists on the physical development of youth players. This study aimed to model the development of off-ice, physical performance measures in UK-based male youth ice hockey players, according to both chronological (CA) and biological age (BA). A total of 347 players (mean age 13.7 +/- 1.4 years) from U12 to U16 age groups, attending a national showcase event, completed off-ice assessments including anthropometrics, countermovement jump, seated medicine ball throw, 20 m sprint, and pro-agility test. Generalized additive models for location, scale and shape (GAMLSS), with penalized B-splines, were used to the non-linear developmental trajectories between 11 and 16.5 years and derive centile curves for both CA and BA. Results demonstrated a general trend of higher physical performance with increasing CA, while analysis, based on BA, revealed a concentrated period of development between similar to 12.5 and 15 years. These findings highlight the non-linear nature of physical development and the importance of accounting for biological maturation in youth athlete assessment. This study provides the first descriptive dataset for competitive UK youth male ice hockey players, offering valuable insights into age and maturity-related performance trends. The reference values support more equitable talent identification and development strategies, aligning with national governing body objectives.		[Jones, Ashley; Quiney, Rupert; Travis, Eleanor; Cranswick, Ieuan; Brogden, Chris] Leeds Beckett Univ, Sch Hlth, Musculoskeletal Hlth & Rehabil Res Grp, Leeds, England; [Quiney, Rupert; Kelvey, Sam] Sheffield Royal Infirm, Sheffield, England; [Eisenmann, Joey; Till, Kevin; Helme, Mark] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Eisenmann, Joey; Till, Kevin; Helme, Mark] Leeds Beckett Univ, Ctr Child & Adolescent Phys Literacy, Leeds, England; [Till, Kevin; Helme, Mark] Leeds Beckett Univ, Ctr Sport Coaching, Leeds, England; [Eisenmann, Joey] St Xavier Univ, Div Hlth Sci, Chicago, IL USA; [Helme, Mark] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001799591800001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Seki, Keitaro; Kayama, Ryunosuke; Paradisis, Giorgos								Hurdle height alters hurdle clearance kinematics and interval running: Implications for technique instruction in beginners								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261458894				2026	This study aimed to examine the effects of hurdle height on hurdling kinematics and spatiotemporal parameters during 40-m hurdle running in beginners. Thirty recreationally active students with no hurdling experience (20 males and 10 females) completed trials under three hurdle height conditions: high (0.84 m), medium (0.76 m), and low (0.68 m). A motion capture system (250 Hz) recorded the kinematics of the second hurdle clearance and the subsequent interval runs. Both hurdling and interval step speeds decreased as hurdle height increased (p < 0.001). The takeoff angle and maximum center of mass (CoM) height increased with hurdle height (p < 0.001), whereas hurdling step speed was strongly and negatively correlated with the takeoff angle (r = -0.915), the backward leaning of the body (r = -0.676) and the shank (r = -0.537) at foot strike during takeoff. The takeoff distance did not differ across conditions; however, hurdling step speed was positively correlated with takeoff distance (r = 0.573). These findings suggest that the body and shank orientation at foot strike during takeoff should be maintained as vertically as possible to lower the CoM trajectory during hurdle clearance. This appears to be driven by an increased takeoff angle and reduced running speed, whereas the takeoff distance remains unchanged. Conversely, lower hurdles were associated with higher running speeds. Thus, beginners should learn to keep their body and shank more vertically oriented at foot strike during takeoff, and practicing with lower hurdles may help maintain running speed and develop efficient hurdling techniques.		[Seki, Keitaro; Kayama, Ryunosuke] Nihon Univ, Coll Humanities & Sci, Dept Phys Educ, 3-25-40 Sakurajosui,Setagaya, Tokyo 1568550, Japan; [Kayama, Ryunosuke] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Japan; [Paradisis, Giorgos] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Seki, Keitaro] Nihon Univ, Coll Humanities & Sci, Dept Phys Educ, 3-25-40 Sakurajosui,Setagaya, Tokyo 1568550, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001799654400001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	de Oliveira Jr, Tadeu Carlos; Araujo, Clecio Falcao; Vieira, Valter Afonso								When game atmosphere and crowd experience shape Latin American fans' behavior: the role of sport fan engagement (Retracted article. See JUL, 2026); When game atmosphere and crowd experience shape Latin American fans' behavior: the role of sport fan engagement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP; INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0368				2026	Purpose This study examines how game atmosphere and crowd experience influence fan engagement and subsequent consumption behaviors among Latin American football fans. Drawing on the Stimulus-Organism-Response (S-O-R) framework and Social Identity Theory (SIT), the research investigates the mediating role of fan engagement and the moderating effect of club membership.Design/methodology/approach The authors conducted a survey with 293 fans who attended Brazilian football major league matches and used Structural Equation Modeling to test a theoretical model linking stadium-related stimuli to fan engagement and subsequent consumer behaviors, including the purchase of licensed products, digital content consumption, and word-of-mouth communication.Findings The results indicate that fan engagement mediates the effects of game atmosphere and crowd experience on consumer behaviors. Club membership moderates these effects asymmetrically the impact of engagement on word-of-mouth communication but weakens its effect on digital content consumption. Overall, fan engagement emerges as a crucial mechanism via emotional and social stimuli translate into behavioral responses.Originality/value This investigation contributes to the sports marketing theory by integrating the S-O-R framework and SIT theory to explain fan behavior in a Latin American context, an underexplored geographic setting. The findings highlight fan engagement as a central driver of consumer behavior and identify club membership as a meaningful boundary condition with both amplifying and dampening effects.		[Araujo, Clecio Falcao] Pontificia Univ Catolica Rio Grande do Sul, PUCRS Business Sch, Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Vieira, Valter Afonso] Univ Estadual Maringa, Maringa, Brazil; [Araujo, Clecio Falcao] Pontificia Univ Catolica Rio Grande do Sul, PUCRS Business Sch, Porto Alegre, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001797156300001	87	Article; Early Access; Retracted Publication; Article; Retracted Publication; Early Access		
J	Liang, Huaqing; Grant, Curtis Justin; Bolgarskaya, Yekaterina								Validity of using a smartphone-based markerless motion capture system for quantitative analysis of human dynamic movements								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2689518				2026	Quantitative motion analysis is often restricted in clinical and sports settings due to high cost and technical requirements of 3D optical systems (MoCap). This study assessed the validity of a smartphone-based markerless system (OpenCap) against MoCap across eight dynamic tasks. Participants (N = 41) performed movements including walking, running, jumping, and cutting, with simultaneous dual-system capture. Lower-extremity joint kinematic agreement was evaluated using discrete metrics (Root-Mean-Square-Error [RMSE], normalised RMSE [NRMSE], Pearson's r, and Bland-Altman analyses) and continuous Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM). OpenCap demonstrated strong sagittal-plane agreement (RMSE = 7.0 degrees-13.4 degrees, NRMSE = 7.4%-24.5%, r = 0.70-0.99) and similar SPM waveforms, despite systematically overestimating flexion/dorsiflexion by 5 degrees-15 degrees. Conversely, out-of-plane kinematics exhibited high normalised errors (RMSE = 3.5 degrees-16.6 degrees, NRMSE = 29.0%-136.3%), highly variable correlations (r = -0.09-0.80), and divergent SPM waveforms. Additionally, OpenCap performed generally better during spatially constrained jumping movements than expansive translating tasks. This highlights algorithmic challenges regarding temporal synchronisation and distal tracking when individuals translate rapidly across the cameras' depth of field. While OpenCap currently lacks the multi-planar precision necessary for absolute out-of-plane evaluation, it successfully captures overarching sagittal trajectories. Ultimately, users must carefully weigh the system's accessibility advantages against its kinematic limitations before implementation in field or clinical environments.		[Liang, Huaqing; Grant, Curtis Justin] Marshall Univ, Sch Phys Therapy, Huntington, WV 25755 USA; [Bolgarskaya, Yekaterina] Marshall Univ, Sch Hlth & Movement Sci, Huntington, WV USA; [Liang, Huaqing] Marshall Univ, Sch Phys Therapy, Huntington, WV 25755 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001797442700001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Oskarsson, Johanna; Flygare Wallen, Eva; Wickman, Kim; Lund Ohlsson, Marie								Building relations to identify the need for adaptations: Swedish coaches' perspectives on sport inclusion of athletes with intellectual disability								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261451716				2026	Research on coaching athletes with intellectual disability (ID) remains limited. This gap constrains coaches' knowledge and capacity to adapt their practices to meet the support needs of athletes with ID. As a result, sport is often organised around normative expectations of physical and cognitive ability, which may contribute to athlete's experience of exclusion. The aim of this study was to explore how coaches understand their role in relation to athletes with ID, describe their relational work, and create adaptations that support athletes with ID participating in sport through sense of belonging and inclusion, as well as sport skill development.Fifteen coaches (aged 45-68 years) working with athletes with ID participated in semi-structured digital interviews. Data were analysed using reflexive thematic analysis informed by the social relational model of disability and the relational competence model. The analysis resulted in three themes: Change of norms, Supporting trust, and Development of sport skills. Establishing trusting relationships enabled coaches to better understand athletes' individual needs and to develop communication strategies that supported both social and sport skill development. Understanding athletes' goals and needs further guided coaches towards more inclusive practices at multiple levels, including tailoring adaptations to make abstract concepts more understandable and adopting autonomy-supportive coaching approaches.Taken together, this study illuminates that inclusion for athletes with ID depends on how their voice, influence, and resources are enabled within sport contexts, which impacts sport equity and athlete skill development. This knowledge can contribute to enhanced competence among coaches, sport clubs, and sport federations.		[Oskarsson, Johanna] Swedish Parasport Federat, Stockholm, Sweden; [Oskarsson, Johanna; Lund Ohlsson, Marie] Mid Sweden Univ, Swedish Winter Sport Res Ctr, Dept Hlth Sci, Ostersund, Sweden; [Flygare Wallen, Eva] Karolinska Inst, Dept Neurobiol Care Sci & Soc NVS, Div Occupat Therapy, Stockholm, Sweden; [Flygare Wallen, Eva] Hlth & Social Care Adm, Ostersund, Sweden; [Wickman, Kim] Umea Univ, Dept Educ, Umea, Sweden; [Lund Ohlsson, Marie] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci GIH, Dept Physiol Nutr & Biomech, Stockholm, Sweden; [Lund Ohlsson, Marie] Mid Sweden Univ, Swedish Winter Sport Res Ctr, Dept Hlth Sci, Ostersund, Sweden								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001797245400001	54	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Makaraci, Yucel; Guc, Emine; Karaduman, Batuhan; Uysal, Abdullah; Gruet, Mathieu								Blood flow restriction does not confer additional benefits to acute countermovement jump responses following bodyweight squat-induced post-activation performance enhancement in female recreational athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261459284				2026	Post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) is widely used to acutely improve neuromuscular performance; however, the effectiveness of combining blood flow restriction (BFR) with bodyweight squat exercise remains unclear. This study aimed to determine whether adding BFR to a bodyweight squat-based conditioning protocol enhances PAPE responses in countermovement jump (CMJ) performance in female recreational athletes. Twenty healthy female participants (age: 19.1 +/- 1.1 years) completed a randomized crossover design involving BFR (KAATSU C4 device, cycle mode) and non-BFR conditions. Both conditions consisted of a bodyweight squat protocol (3 & times; 10 repetitions), followed by CMJ assessments at baseline and at 3, 6, and 9 min post-exercise. Jump height, relative maximal power (RMP), and rate of force development (RFD) were measured using a force plate. A significant main effect of time was observed for jump height (p = .001), and a significant main effect of condition was also identified (p = .020). However, no significant condition & times; time interaction was found (p = .853). No significant effects were observed for RMP or RFD (p > .05). These findings suggest that the bodyweight squat protocol alone was sufficient to elicit a PAPE response, whereas the addition of BFR did not provide meaningful improvements in CMJ performance. Practitioners aiming to acutely enhance jumping performance may therefore prioritize the bodyweight squat protocol used in this study without the addition of BFR.		[Makaraci, Yucel; Guc, Emine; Karaduman, Batuhan; Uysal, Abdullah] Karamanoglu Mehmetbey Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, TR-70100 Karaman, Turkiye; [Gruet, Mathieu] Univ Toulon & Var, J AP2S, Toulon, France; [Makaraci, Yucel] Karamanoglu Mehmetbey Univ, TR-70100 Karaman, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001796577400001	48	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Souibgui, Saifeddine; Jmili, Haifa; Mejri, Mohamed Arbi; Yousfi, Narimen; Makhlouf, Issam; Behm, David George; Mrayeh, Maher								Impact of coach education and practical experience on performance gains in young elite karate athletes following an 8-week plyometric and agility training program								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261459975				2026	This exploratory, quasi-experimental study examined how coach educational background influences training-induced adaptations in young elite karate athletes. Forty-five national-level under-15 karatekas were assigned to three non-randomized groups based on their coach profile: sports instructor (School 1), university-trained sports teacher (School 2), or a combined supervision team (School 3). Each coaching unit independently designed an eight-week plyometric and agility program under standardized constraints, allowing the program characteristics to reflect their methodological expertise. Pre- and post-intervention assessments included anthropometry, muscular power, linear sprint time, change-of-direction (COD) speed, and dynamic balance. Data were analyzed using ANCOVA with baseline scores as covariates. Effect sizes were expressed as partial eta squared (eta(2)(p)) for between-group effects and Cohen's d for descriptive changes. ANCOVA revealed no significant group effects for BMI, body fat percentage, squat-jump, or 10-m sprint. Conversely, significant between-group differences favoring School 3 were observed in most key performance metrics (p < 0.01). School 3 demonstrated superior outcomes for muscular power (countermovement jump, drop jump, standing long jump, medicine-ball tests; eta(2)(p) up to 0.67), linear sprint time (15-m sprint; eta(2)(p) = 0.30), modified COD T-test (MCOD-T; eta(2)(p)=0.67), and Y-balance test - composite score (YBT-CS; eta(2)(p)=0.40). Post-hoc tests confirmed School 3 outperformed School 1 and School 2 with large effect sizes across these variables (e.g., MCOD-T: d = 3.59 vs. School 1; 15-m sprint: d = 1.63 vs. School 1). We conclude that integrating academic knowledge with sport-specific practical experience provides a stronger foundation for designing structured, progressive, and effective training programs that maximize positive performance adaptations.		[Souibgui, Saifeddine; Jmili, Haifa; Mejri, Mohamed Arbi; Makhlouf, Issam; Mrayeh, Maher] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sport, Tunisian Res Lab Sport Performance Optimisat LR09S, Tunis, Tunisia; [Souibgui, Saifeddine; Jmili, Haifa; Mejri, Mohamed Arbi; Makhlouf, Issam; Mrayeh, Maher] Manouba Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Tunis, Tunisia; [Yousfi, Narimen] Univ Jendouba, Higher Inst Sports & Phys Educ Kef, Res Unit Sport Sci Hlth & Movement, Kef, Tunisia; [Behm, David George] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada; [Mejri, Mohamed Arbi] BP263, Tunis 1004, Tunisia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001796575100001	66	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Beechey-Danvers, Jack; Kemel, Paul; Wheeler, Mitchell; Talpey, Scott								Exploring interprofessional dynamics: Insights from physiotherapists and strength & conditioning coaches in Australian football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2267	2278		10.1177/17479541261459563			AUG 2026	2026	Interprofessional collaboration is crucial in elite sports. While existing literature defines the roles of physiotherapists and strength and conditioning coaches, there is limited exploration of how these professionals collaborate within elite sports, particularly elite men's Australian Rules Football. The aim of this study was to explore the interprofessional dynamic between physiotherapists and strength and conditioning coaches. Thirteen practitioners (physiotherapists N = 7; strength and conditioning coaches N = 6) working with elite men's Australian football clubs participated in semi-structured interviews to explore interprofessional collaboration within this context. Two major themes (Playing your role and There is no 'I' in team) arose from the data. The first theme explains the unique responsibilities and overlapping roles of physiotherapists and strength and conditioning coaches in different aspects of athlete management. The second theme uncovered the significance of communication, collaborative decision-making, egos, mutual respect and their influence on the dynamic examined between physiotherapists and strength and conditioning within these environments. Findings align with key dimensions of Relational Coordination, including shared goals, shared knowledge, mutual respect, and problem-solving communication. These findings outline the interprofessional dynamic between physiotherapists and strength and conditioning coaches within an elite sporting environment. Moreover, these results can inform educational programs to improve interprofessional dynamics within sporting environments, offering a promising path towards enhancing athletic health and performance.		[Beechey-Danvers, Jack; Kemel, Paul; Wheeler, Mitchell] Federat Univ, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, Northways Rd, Churchill, VIC 3842, Australia; [Talpey, Scott] La Trobe Univ, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Ctr, Plenty Rd, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Beechey-Danvers, Jack] Federat Univ, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, Northways Rd, Churchill, VIC 3842, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001796133000001	44	Article; Article		
J	Kiss, Csaba; Toth, Renato; Nagy, Attila; Toth, Laszlo; Benczenleitner, Otto								Relationship between coach-athlete relationship, resilience and anxiety among junior players of state-accredited ice hockey academies in Hungary								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261459445				2026	The coach-athlete relationship (CAR) is central to athletes' psychosocial functioning, yet little is known about whether athletes form distinct relational profiles and how these relate to resilience and competitive anxiety. Drawing on the 3C model of CAR and stress-appraisal theory, this study examined (a) whether youth athletes can be grouped into homogeneous CAR profiles and (b) whether these profiles differ in resilience, cognitive anxiety, somatic anxiety, and self-confidence. Participants were 202 youth ice hockey players from Hungarian state-accredited academies who completed validated measures of CAR (CART-Q), resilience (CD-RISC-10), and competitive anxiety (CSAI-2). Latent Profile Analysis identified four distinct CAR profiles - Partnership, Indifferent, Distanced, and Alienated. Profiles showed meaningful differences in resilience, with the Partnership group reporting the strongest adaptive capacity. They also differed in somatic anxiety and self-confidence, with Partnership athletes reporting lower physiological arousal and higher confidence. Cognitive anxiety did not differ across profiles, suggesting that worry is less influenced by relational quality. These results highlight that athletes experience CAR in qualitatively different ways, with distinct implications for coping and emotional functioning. The findings underscore that athletes differ meaningfully in their relational experiences with the coach, making person-centered approaches essential for accurately understanding how coach-athlete relationships relate to resilience and competitive anxiety. By highlighting distinct relational profiles, the study demonstrates that effective coaching requires both tailored interpersonal strategies and the professional competences needed to adapt communication, support, and structure to individual athletes.		[Kiss, Csaba] Corvinus Univ Budapest, Inst Strategy & Management, Budapest, Hungary; [Toth, Renato] Univ Sport Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Nagy, Attila] Natl Inst Sports Dev & Methodol, Budapest, Hungary; [Toth, Laszlo] Univ Sport Sci, Dept Psychol & Sport Psychol, Budapest, Hungary; [Benczenleitner, Otto] Eszterhazy Karoly Catholic Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Kiss, Csaba] Fovam Ter 8, H-1093 Budapest, Hungary								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001796131800001	100	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Martin-Miguel, Ivan; Moreno-Martin, Adrian; Torrontegi-Ronco, Elaia; Montalvo-Zenarruzabeitia, Zigor; de Rozas-Galan, Alejandro								Principal component analysis of countermovement jump force-time variables for sex- and sport-specific profiling in elite athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261459967				2026	Force-time (F-t) variables derived from the countermovement jump (CMJ) offer insights into neuromuscular performance and may differ across sexes and sports. This study aimed to assess variables from the F-t curve and analyse force profiles by sex and sport. A total of 550 CMJs from 188 elite athletes representing nine sports were analyzed. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) reduced dimensionality and identified latent components describing force production. PCA extracted three components explaining 91.6% of variance: PC1 (propulsive, 38.0%), PC2 (braking, 29.3%), and PC3 (temporal-impulse, 24.3%). Component scores differed significantly across sports in both sexes (all p < 0.001). In males, gymnastics and fencing showed the highest PC1 scores, while triathlon consistently presented the lowest. Badminton displayed superior PC2 and PC3 characteristics. In females, artistic gymnastics exhibited the highest PC1 capacity, whereas taekwondo and triathlon showed the lowest. Badminton and gymnastics outperformed several sports in PC2 and PC3. PCA mapping showed male fencing and judo clustered in high propulsive-high braking profiles, while triathlon athletes showed low braking strategy efficiency. Most female athletes displayed reduced propulsive and braking capacity, except gymnasts and judokas. F-t profiles differentiate neuromuscular strategies across sexes and sports, supporting their application to guide discipline- and sex-specific training interventions.		[Martin-Miguel, Ivan] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Martin-Miguel, Ivan; Moreno-Martin, Adrian; Torrontegi-Ronco, Elaia; Montalvo-Zenarruzabeitia, Zigor; de Rozas-Galan, Alejandro] Spanish High Council Sports CSD, Dept Sport Sci, Performance Anal Unit, Madrid, Spain; [de Rozas-Galan, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Sport Sci Fac, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Martin-Miguel, Ivan] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Martin-Miguel, Ivan] Spanish High Council Sports CSD, Dept Sport Sci, Performance Anal Unit, Madrid, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001796456500001	61	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kweon, Daeeun; Morgans, Ryland; Thomas, Owen; Oliver, Jon; Oliveira, Rafael; Ryan, Ben; Radnor, John								"Strength and power are no longer optional": Contemporary strength and conditioning practice in an English Premier League first team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261457478				2026	Purpose Strength and Conditioning (S&C) coaches play a central role in optimising performance and mitigating injury risk in elite football. Despite this key responsibility, limited research has examined the practical application of S&C within the daily realities of top-tier professional environments. This study explored applied S&C practices within a first-team department of an English Premier League (EPL) football club to generate context-specific insights relevant to practitioners and researchers.Methods A qualitative research design was employed using semi-structured interviews with five first-team performance and medical staff members. Interviews explored S&C training philosophy and delivery, testing and monitoring approaches, and operational and contextual constraints. All interviews were recorded, transcribed verbatim, and analysed using reflexive thematic analysis.Results Three overarching themes were identified: (1) Player profiling, (2) Injury prevention, and (3) Challenges in programme S&C delivery. Individualised S&C programming was primarily informed by player profiling and the positional demands. Strength and power were monitored regularly during the season, whereas comprehensive speed profiling was not consistently conducted during the season. Injury prevention strategies were systematic and individualised, integrating screening processes, targeted exercise selection, and load management. Enhancing player education and modifying exercises were key to improving player compliance, but staffing limitations and time pressures restricted the extent of individualised S&C.Conclusion This study provides novel insights into the applied realities of S&C practice within an EPL first-team environment. While practitioners adopted evidence-informed approaches, practical constraints necessitated ongoing compromise and flexibility. These findings highlight the importance of adaptable, context driven decision-making and demonstrate the value of qualitative inquiry for capturing the complexity of elite football performance settings.		[Kweon, Daeeun; Morgans, Ryland; Thomas, Owen; Oliver, Jon; Radnor, John] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Kweon, Daeeun; Morgans, Ryland; Ryan, Ben] Brentford FC Football Res Ctr, London, England; [Oliveira, Rafael] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth & Human Dev, P-5001801 Vila Real, Portugal; [Oliveira, Rafael] Polytech Inst Santarem, Sports Sci Sch Rio Maior, P-2040413 Rio Maior, Portugal; [Oliveira, Rafael] Life Qual Res Ctr, P-2040413 Rio Maior, Portugal; [Kweon, Daeeun] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001795924200001	73	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Praca, Gibson Moreira; Conrado, Deborah Guimaraes Quirino Electo; Ferreira, Rodrigo Elifas Marques; Bredt, Sarah Da Gloria Teles; Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi								Visual exploratory activity and defensive success in small-sided games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261459026				2026	Visual exploratory activity (VEA) has been widely associated with attacking performance in football, yet its role during the defensive phase remains unclear. This study compared the frequency of VEA between successful and unsuccessful defensive sequences in small-sided games (SSGs). Thirty-five under-15 players participated in standardized 3 vs 3 SSGs with goalkeepers and the offside rule. VEA was defined as off-ball head movements away from the ball and expressed as frequency per second within each defensive sequence. A linear mixed-effects model, with team as a random effect, was used for analysis. A significant effect of defensive outcome on VEA was observed (F (1, 86.45) = 4.17, p = .044), with higher frequencies in successful (M = 0.267; 95% CI [0.202, 0.331]) compared to unsuccessful sequences (M = 0.152; 95% CI [0.055, 0.248]). The effect size was moderate (Cohen's d = 0.549), exceeding the predefined smallest effect size of interest (d = 0.50). However, sensitivity analysis indicated that the study was only powered to detect larger effects (d = 0.668), warranting cautious interpretation. These findings provide initial evidence that greater visual exploratory activity is associated with successful defensive performance in youth football.		[Praca, Gibson Moreira; Conrado, Deborah Guimaraes Quirino Electo; Ferreira, Rodrigo Elifas Marques; Bredt, Sarah Da Gloria Teles; Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Ctr Estudos Cognicao & Acao, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Ctr Estudos Cognicao & Acao, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001795915300001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Griffith, Owen; McLaughlin, Madeline; Napora, Zach; Alt, Ryan; Slobounov, S. M.								Force plate-based balance training intervention improves change-of-direction performance in collegiate soccer athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261462006				2026	Postural stability contributes to athletic performance by enhancing body control, coordination, and movement efficiency. The extent to which postural stability translates to complex athletic skills such as agility remains unclear. Additionally, common assessment methods of postural stability are subjective and may introduce administrator bias. This study employed an objective measure of postural stability-the Advanced Mechanical Technology Inc (AMTI) Force Platform-alongside a three-week balance training intervention to evaluate improvements in athletic performance. Twenty collegiate soccer players (age: 20.22 +/- 1.19 years; playing experience: 14.8 +/- 2.76 years) were randomly assigned to an experimental group (n = 10) or a control group (n = 10). The experimental group completed balance training six days per week for three weeks, while the control group received no training. Both groups completed the 505 Agility Test and the Agility T-Test before and after the intervention period. The experimental group showed significant improvements in 505 Agility Test scores for right-directional turns (t(18) = 2.677, p = .015) and in Agility T-Test performance for right-directional pivots (F(2, 18) = 12.264, p = 0.002, eta p2 = 0.412). Following the intervention, the experimental group completed the 505 Agility Test significantly faster than the control group (F(2, 18) = 4.626, p = 0.045, eta p2 = 0.204). The experimental group's performance on the balance task also improved across the intervention. These findings support balance interventions using the AMTI Force Platform as effective training modalities for improving change-of-direction performance for soccer athletes and highlight its utility as an objective tool for quantifying postural stability.		[Griffith, Owen; McLaughlin, Madeline; Napora, Zach; Alt, Ryan; Slobounov, S. M.] Penn State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, University Pk, PA USA; [McLaughlin, Madeline] Penn State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 19 Recreat Bldg, University Pk, PA 16802 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001795978400001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Garcia-Manso, Juan Manuel; Sanchez-Pato, Antonio; Garcia-Roca, Juan Alfonso								Periodization of sports training and its evolution: From origins to current alternative models								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261457348				2026	Periodization in sports training (PST) is a fundamental area in Sports Performance, and is focused on the state, change, or maintenance of an athlete's level as a function of the results and indicators of the athlete's physical performance (mainly strength, speed, and resistance). The view on periodization of training has changed along with sports. The models analyzed in the present article are Rationalization (1894-1919), Pre-scientific Stage (1920-1945), Traditional Periodization (1946-1972), Scientific Periodization (1973-1992), and Contemporary Periodization (1993-2020). The evolution of PST is addressed in two parts, to establish a thematic thread about the scientific works and the social-political culture from Olympism to professional sports, from the twentieth Century until the present, to finally reach the conclusion, as determined by the aim and means of PST. The history of PST is one of the keys to understanding the evolution of modern sport.		[Garcia-Manso, Juan Manuel] Univ Las Palmas Gran Canaria, Dept Phys Educ, Las Palmas Gran Canaria, Spain; [Sanchez-Pato, Antonio] Univ A Coruna, Fac Ciencias Deporte & Educ Fis, La Coruna, Spain; [Garcia-Roca, Juan Alfonso] Univ Catolica San Antonio Murcia, Fac Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Sanchez-Pato, Antonio] Univ A Coruna, Fac Ciencias Deporte & Educ Fis, La Coruna, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001794851600001	68	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lozano, Demetrio; Tuquet, Jaime; Mainer-Pardos, Elena; Carton-Llorente, Antonio; Gonzalez, Andres; Fabrica, Gabriel								Time pressure in decision-making: Effects on throwing speed and accuracy in handball jump shots								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261461184				2026	This study examined how delayed decision-making affects speed and accuracy in handball jump throws. Thirty-five experienced male players (age: 24.87 +/- 4.57 yr) performed frontal 9 m jump throws under three visual-stimulus onset delays: T1 (0 s), T2 (0.100 s), and T3 (0.250 s). Throwing speed (TS) was measured via radar gun and accuracy via video analysis of hits on corner targets. Data were analysed using Friedman and Cochran's Q tests for condition effects, and binary logistic regression to examine the speed-accuracy relationship. Delayed stimulus onset caused a progressive reduction in TS (chi(2)(2) = 33.036, p < 0.001, Kendall's W = 0.472). Accuracy was significantly affected (Q(2) = 9.652, p = 0.008, Cram & eacute;r's V = 0.371), remaining stable between T1 and T2 but deteriorating sharply in T3 (T3 vs T2: p = 0.007). Logistic regression showed that normalized speed did not predict accuracy under T1 or T2 (T1 p = 0.601; T2 p = 0.106); however, under T3, a significant association emerged (OR = 1.164, p = 0.009), indicating the absence of a classic speed-accuracy trade-off. Temporal constraints modulate performance non-linearly: players prioritize accuracy under moderate pressure (T2) by reducing speed, but reach a critical threshold under severe constraints (T3) where both parameters collapse. This interval represents the limit of online motor reprogramming and the breakdown of perceptual-motor coupling. Training should incorporate late-stimulus drills to enhance perceptual-cognitive flexibility and fast-reprogramming capacity under extreme time pressure.		[Lozano, Demetrio; Tuquet, Jaime; Mainer-Pardos, Elena; Carton-Llorente, Antonio] Univ San Jorge, Zaragoza, Spain; [Gonzalez, Andres] Univ Republ, Inst Super Educ Fis, Maldonado, Uruguay; [Fabrica, Gabriel] Univ Republica, Fac Med, Unidad Acad Biofis, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Fabrica, Gabriel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Educ Fac, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Carton-Llorente, Antonio] Univ San Jorge, Campus Univ,Autov A23 Km 299, Villanueva De Gallego 50830, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001794687500001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hafoka, Crystal K.; Centeio, Erin E.; Simonton, Kelly L.; Serna, A. Kuulei; Mercier, Kevin J.								Examining Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Youth Attitudes Toward Physical Activity and Physical Education								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2676647				2026	Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander (NHPI) populations experience persistent disparities in physical activity (PA) and chronic disease, however, little is known about NHPI youths affective orientations toward PA and physical education (PE). The purpose of this study was to examine NHPI youths' attitudes toward PA and PE and their associations with intentions and behavior. Participants included 1,163 students in grades 4-12 from 11 schools (5 elementary, 6 secondary) across 2 islands in Hawai'i, with 57% identifying as NHPI. Students completed validated measures of PA attitudes, PE attitudes, PA intention, and self-reported PA. No differences emerged between NHPI and non-NHPI students across attitudes, intentions, or PA behavior. Within NHPI youth, positive PA attitudes were significantly associated with both PA intention and behavior, whereas PE attitudes were not. Findings challenge deficit-based assumptions that NHPI youth possess negative orientations toward PA. Instead, NHPI youth demonstrate positive PA attitudes that appear to operate independently of school-based PE experiences. This study contributes to the literature by highlighting the importance of distinguishing PA and PE attitudes within TPB-informed research and by underscoring the need for culturally responsive approaches that sustain positive PA dispositions across development.		[Hafoka, Crystal K.; Centeio, Erin E.; Serna, A. Kuulei] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Lower Campus Rd, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Simonton, Kelly L.] Univ Wyoming, Laramie, WY USA; [Mercier, Kevin J.] Adelphi Univ, Adelphi, MD USA; [Centeio, Erin E.] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Lower Campus Rd, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001791000700001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Li, Nan; Xu, Haibo								12-Week Rhythmic Gymnastics Training on Fundamental Movement Skills in School-Age Children: A Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2683800				2026	A randomized controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the effect of rhythmic gymnastics on the development of fundamental movement skills in children with delayed motor skills. This study took place at a primary school from April to June 2022 and involved 88 children aged 6 to 7 years. These children were randomly assigned to an intervention group (N = 44) and a control group (N = 44). The intervention group participated in two 45-minute rhythmic gymnastics classes each week for 12 weeks, while the control group engaged in regular physical activities at the same frequency and duration. All students were evaluated before and after the intervention using the "Test of Fundamental Movement Skills Competence Development for 3 to 10-year-old Children in China." The results were analyzed statistically using SPSS 26.0. Following the intervention, the rhythmic gymnastics group demonstrated significantly improved performance in locomotor, stability, manipulative, and overall skills (all p < .001). They also performed better on tasks such as standing long jump, skipping, rock & roll, stationary dribbling, and one-hand strike (all partial eta(2) > 0.14). Findings suggest that incorporating rhythmic gymnastics into elementary school physical education could effectively improve fundamental movement skills in school-age children.		[Li, Nan; Xu, Haibo] Xuzhou Med Univ, Xuzhou, Peoples R China; [Xu, Haibo] Xuzhou Med Univ, Ctr Mental Hlth Educ & Res, 209 Tongshan Rd, Xuzhou 221004, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001791420700001	65	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Eidiyan-Kakhki, Mohammad Mahdi; Rajabi, Hamid; Amani-Shalamzari, Sadegh; Motamedi, Pezhman; Jafari, Mahmood; Nikolaidis, Pantelis T.								A Comprehensive Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Isoinertial Flywheel vs. Traditional Resistance Training on Strength, Power, Speed, and Agility in Team Sports								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2662550				2026	Isoinertial Flywheel Training (IFWT) has emerged as an innovative approach to improve athletic performance through the exploitation of eccentric overload. This systematic review and meta-analysis evaluated the comparative effects of IFWT versus Conventional Resistance Training (CRT) on strength, power, speed, and agility in team sport athletes. PubMed, Web of Science, and Scopus databases were searched on December 12, 2024. Eligible studies examined strength (1RM), power (countermovement jump [CMJ]), speed (10 m and 20 m sprint), and agility (T-test). Data were pooled using a random-effects model, and heterogeneity was quantified by the I2 statistic. Thirteen studies involving 324 athletes met the inclusion criteria. No significant differences were observed between IFWT and CRT for strength (SMD = 4.716, 95% CI [-16.233, 25.664], p = .659) or sprint performance (10 m: SMD = -0.021, p = .206; 20 m: SMD = -0.076, p = .132). Conversely, IFWT produced significant improvements in power (SMD = 2.583, 95% CI [0.906, 4.259], p = .003) and agility (SMD = -0.207, 95% CI [-0.373, -0.041], p = .015). Heterogeneity varied across outcomes from low to high, reflecting diverse protocols and athlete profiles. IFWT appears more effective than CRT in enhancing power and agility among team sport athletes, though results for strength and speed are inconclusive. These findings highlight the potential of flywheel-based resistance to optimize neuromuscular adaptations. Further, well-controlled trials with standardized loads, durations, and sport-specific tasks are required to confirm these benefits and elucidate underlying mechanisms of performance enhancement.		[Eidiyan-Kakhki, Mohammad Mahdi; Rajabi, Hamid; Amani-Shalamzari, Sadegh; Motamedi, Pezhman; Jafari, Mahmood] Kharazmi Univ, Tehran, Iran; [Nikolaidis, Pantelis T.] Univ West Attica, Athens, Greece; [Nikolaidis, Pantelis T.] Univ West Attica, Athens, Greece								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001790989800001	56	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kosciolek, Szczepan; Nessel, Karolina; Lesniak, Anna								When does sponsorship-related content engage fans? Evidence from football clubs on Instagram								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-02-2026-0127				2026	Purpose This study examines when sponsorship- and sales-oriented social media content undermines fan engagement and when audiences continue to interact despite salient commercial intent. Specifically, it investigates how the engagement effects of embedded commercial cues depend on the dominant brand association narratives framing football clubs' Instagram posts.Design/methodology/approach The analysis draws on 4,176 Instagram posts published by all clubs competing in the Polish Ekstraklasa. Posts were content-coded according to dominant brand association narratives and analyzed using fixed-effects panel regression models. Fan engagement was operationalized through likes and comments, capturing low- and high-effort interaction behaviors.Findings Results show that sponsorship-related and sales-oriented content is associated with lower fan engagement. However, these negative patterns vary systematically across narrative contexts. When commercial cues are embedded in narratives emphasizing team success, match-related information, fan community, or stadium experiences, the decline in likes is significantly attenuated and, in some cases, fully offset. In contrast, narratives centered on youth academies amplify disengagement. Moderating effects are substantially weaker for comments, indicating that narrative context primarily buffers low-effort engagement.Research limitations/implications The study advances persuasion-based explanations of social media engagement by demonstrating that responses to commercial content are conditioned by narrative-level brand associations rather than driven solely by the recognition of persuasive intent. It extends the Persuasion Knowledge Model by identifying narrative context as a key boundary condition shaping engagement outcomes in sport social media communication.Originality/value The study advances persuasion-based explanations of social media engagement by showing that audience responses to commercial content depend on narrative-level brand associations rather than solely on the recognition of persuasive intent. By identifying narrative context as a key boundary condition, the findings extend the Persuasion Knowledge Model and demonstrate how meaning-rich communication frames shape engagement outcomes in sport social media environments.		[Kosciolek, Szczepan; Nessel, Karolina; Lesniak, Anna] Jagiellonian Univ, Krakow, Poland; [Kosciolek, Szczepan] Jagiellonian Univ, Krakow, Poland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001789682100001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhou, Zhanyi; Pan, Jianqi; Gao, Zixiang; Li, Fengping; Chen, Diwei; Wang, Dongxu; Garcia Ramos, Amador; Xiang, Liangliang; Gu, Yaodong								Synergy structure and distribution mechanism of joint moments in the landing leg during tennis pinpoint serve								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2687020				2026	Tennis-serve landing is a high-intensity single-leg impact requiring coordinated multi-joint control, yet skill-level differences in whole-limb kinetics remain unclear. Fifteen elite and fifteen amateur male players performed Pinpoint serves. 3D kinematics and kinetics were captured. Principal component analysis (PCA) extracted synergy moments (Syn1-Syn2), and vector coding quantified coupling-angle coordination patterns. Two synergy moments explained the dominant variance. In Syn1, elites showed higher contributions from hip/ankle rotation (p = 0.032) and knee abduction-adduction (p < 0.001), whereas amateurs additionally over-weighted ankle plantar-dorsiflexion (p = 0.027). In Syn2, elites emphasised ankle plantar-dorsiflexion and inversion-eversion, hip abduction-adduction, and knee rotation (all p < 0.05 vs. mean); amateurs exceeded the mean only in hip abduction-adduction (p < 0.05) and knee rotation (p = 0.003). Elites showed greater Syn2 prevalence (p < 0.001) and higher proportions of Syn2-dominant anti-phase (p = 0.002) and in-phase patterns (p = 0.013); amateurs showed higher Syn1-dominant anti-phase patterns (p < 0.001). Elites dissipate rotational momentum through functional redundancy across joints, supporting robust stability. Amateurs rely on a stiffer, reactive braking strategy that may increase cumulative tissue loading. Training should develop multi-planar rotational adaptability to optimise landing mechanics and reduce injury risk.		[Zhou, Zhanyi; Garcia Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Pan, Jianqi; Li, Fengping; Chen, Diwei; Wang, Dongxu; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Gao, Zixiang] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Garcia Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Xiang, Liangliang] KTH Royal Inst Technol, Dept Engn Mech, KTH Move Abil Lab, Stockholm, Sweden; [Gu, Yaodong] Hungarian Univ Sports Sci, Res Inst Sport Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Gao, Zixiang] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001791451900001	50	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Jurik, Roman; Stastny, Petr; Kolinger, Dominik; Vetrovsky, Tomas; Maszczyk, Adam								Acute Blood Pressure Responses to Agonist and Agonist-Antagonist Paired Set Resistance Training in Normotensive and Stage 1 Hypertensive Individuals								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2671778				2026	To compare differences in blood pressure responses after the agonist and agonist-antagonist paired set training using the upper and lower-body exercises among individuals with normotension and stage 1 hypertension. A repeated-measures experimental design was conducted with 47 participants, including 30 normotensive individuals (age 47.8 +/- 5.9 years, systolic/diastolic blood pressure 120.3 +/- 12.0/70.6 +/- 8.3 mmHg, and BMI of 25.3 +/- 3.6 kg/m(2)) and 17 individuals with stage 1 hypertension (age 54.3 +/- 6.0 years, systolic/diastolic blood pressure 135.5 +/- 12.0/81.5 +/- 7.3 mmHg, and BMI 28.5 +/- 4.5 kg/m(2)). Each resistance training session consisted of eight exercises performed for three sets of 10 repetitions at 75% of one-repetition maximum. Blood pressure was measured before, immediately after, and at 10 and 20 minutes after session. Traditional agonist and agonist-antagonist paired set resistance training significantly increased systolic blood pressure (p < .05) immediately after session. Acute post-exercise systolic hypotension was evident only following traditional agonist resistance training for upper-body in individuals with stage 1 hypertension at 10 and 20 minutes after session. Significant acute post-exercise diastolic hypotension (p < .05) occurred immediately after and at 10 and 20 minutes after traditional agonist upper-body resistance training and agonist-antagonist paired set resistance training for the upper-body in individuals with normotension and the stage 1 hypertension. Traditional agonist resistance training for upper-body induce post-exercise systolic and diastolic hypotension in individuals with stage 1 hypertension and agonist-antagonist paired set resistance training for upper-body induce post-exercise diastolic hypotension in individuals with normotension.		[Jurik, Roman; Stastny, Petr; Kolinger, Dominik; Vetrovsky, Tomas] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Maszczyk, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ & Sport Katowice, Katowice, Poland; [Jurik, Roman] Heyrovskeho 596-14, Brno 63500, Czech Republic								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001790797200001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Clavijo, Fabian Alberto Romero; Romeas, Thomas; Tremblay, Mathieu; Trempe, Maxime								Effects of virtual reality batting practice on swing decision-making in highly-trained baseball batters								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261458208				2026	Baseball involves a dynamic confrontation in which the batter uses the pitcher's kinematics to support swing decision. However, replicating this representative perceptual information during real-world (RW) practice is difficult, as pitchers have a restricted number of maximum-effort pitches they can safely deliver. Virtual reality (VR) practice, where a batter faces a virtual pitcher, has been proposed to be an effective practice tool to provide representative perceptual information and train swinging decision. This study examined the transfer effects of supplementing RW batting training with VR practice on swing decision in baseball players. Twenty highly trained male baseball players were randomly assigned to either a pseudo-representative real-world only (RWG) or a RW plus representative VR (RW + VRG) batting practice condition. Throughout the six-week intervention, both groups completed their regular weekday training sessions. For the RW + VRG, a portion of their regular practices was replaced with 12 twenty-minute sessions of VR batting practice. Decision making was assessed pre- and post-intervention using a VR pitch recognition (PR) test and plate discipline during a real batting (RB) test. Bayesian analyses revealed moderate evidence for greater performance improvement following RW + VRG practice compared to the RWG practice, as observed in the PR test (BF = 4.4) and Z-swing % in the RB test (BF = 4.15). These exploratory findings suggest that VR batting practice is a promising complementary tool for enhancing swing decision-making.		[Clavijo, Fabian Alberto Romero; Trempe, Maxime] Bishops Univ, Sports Studies Dept, Sherbrooke, PQ, Canada; [Clavijo, Fabian Alberto Romero; Romeas, Thomas] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Romeas, Thomas] Univ Montreal, Ecole Kinesiol & Sci Act Phys, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Romeas, Thomas] York Univ, Dept Psychol, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Tremblay, Mathieu] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Dept Anat, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Clavijo, Fabian Alberto Romero] Bishops Univ, Sports Studies Dept, Sherbrooke, PQ, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001790081000001	22	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zarei, Mostafa; Jaitner, Thomas; Heydarnia, Ebrahim; Yaghoobzadeh, Seyed Hossein; Asgari, Mojtaba								Effects of the Football plus warm-up program on eccentric hamstring strength and dynamic balance in youth male players: A cluster-controlled trial								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261458356				2026	This cluster-allocated interventional study examined the effects of the Football+ warm-up program on isokinetic muscle strength and dynamic balance in youth amateur male football players. Two Iranian U18 teams voluntarily participated, completed introductory sessions, and were team-allocated to either the Football+ (n = 15, age = 17.31 +/- 0.12 years) or a control group (n = 16, age = 17.13 +/- 0.09 years). Baseline assessments included concentric and eccentric quadriceps and hamstring strength at 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s, and dynamic balance using the Biodex Balance System. The intervention group performed the Football+ twice weekly for eight weeks, while the control group continued its regular warm-up routines. All assessments were repeated post-intervention. Repeated-measures ANOVA and non-parametric equivalents were used to analyze group differences at a significance level of p <= 0.05. ANOVA revealed significant time & times; group interactions for hamstring eccentric strength at both 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s in both legs, whereas quadriceps strength did not change significantly. For dynamic balance, a significant time-group interaction was observed for anterior-posterior stability of the right leg (p = 0.03). For the left leg, a Kruskal-Wallis test indicated a significant pre-intervention difference favoring the control group (p = 0.028), which was no longer present post-intervention (p = 0.42). Overall stability improved significantly over time in the Football + group without significant interaction effects. Eight weeks of the Football+ training (level 1) was associated with improvements in hamstring eccentric strength and selected aspects of dynamic balance, suggesting potential benefits for neuromuscular performance in youth amateur players. Further studies with larger samples across different age groups and playing levels are warranted.		[Zarei, Mostafa; Heydarnia, Ebrahim; Yaghoobzadeh, Seyed Hossein] Shahid Beheshti Univ, Fac Sport Sci & Hlth, Tehran, Iran; [Jaitner, Thomas; Asgari, Mojtaba] TU Dortmund Univ, Inst Sport & Sport Sci, Dortmund, Germany; [Asgari, Mojtaba] Inst Sport & Sport Sci, Otto-Hahn-Str 3, D-42277 Dortmund, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001790084900001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Pappous, Athanasios (Sakis); Vergara-Torres, Argenis P.; Cabello-Manrique, David								Co-creating the brand: volunteer voices at the Buenos Aires Youth Olympic Games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-08-2025-0437				2026	Purpose For emerging mega-events, building a strong brand and positive reputation is critical for long-term success. Building on stakeholder theory and contemporary branding perspectives, this study analyses the lived experiences of 1,791 volunteers at the 2018 Youth Olympic Games in Buenos Aires to examine how volunteer management practices function as brand touchpoints through which organisational reputation is co-created.Design/methodology/approach Adopting a reflexive thematic analysis of 2,074 advice units extracted from open-ended survey responses, we identified seven interrelated brand touchpoints across the volunteer journey.Findings Indicators reveal high satisfaction (96.2%) and strong re-volunteering intention (98.6%), qualitative findings show that this positive evaluation coexists with constructive recommendations focused on (1) recruitment and training, (2) overall event planning and organisation, (3) organisation and distribution of activities, (4) implementation and execution, (5) working conditions, (6) recognition and incentives and (7) perceived event impact. These touchpoints represent critical moments in which organisational practices shaped volunteers' experiential evaluations and contributed to the co-creation of event brand meaning and reputational capital.Originality/value This study reconceptualises volunteer feedback as a strategic resource for brand co-creation. By framing volunteer management as structured brand touchpoints, it provides a theoretically grounded and practical framework for strengthening reputation and social legacy in emerging mega-events, particularly in Latin America.		[Pappous, Athanasios (Sakis); Vergara-Torres, Argenis P.] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies QUVI, Bologna, Italy; [Cabello-Manrique, David] Univ Granada, IMUDS, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Vergara-Torres, Argenis P.] Autonomous Univ Nuevo Leon, Fac Sports Org, San Nicolas De Los Garza, Mexico; [Pappous, Athanasios (Sakis)] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies QUVI, Bologna, Italy								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001788912200001	47	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bennie, Andrew; Grainger, Andrew; Guntoro, Jessica D.; Kennedy, Sarah G.								Community coach education in Australia: A desktop review								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2522	2536		10.1177/17479541261450377			AUG 2026	2026	Given the importance of quality sport opportunities for youth, it is necessary to better understand the education offered to coaches who deliver these experiences. This paper identifies and describes formal coach education offerings from the 10 most popular youth sports in Australia. We conducted a desktop review of National Sport Organisation (NSO) websites of these 10 sports, to explore the scope, content, and requirements of community coach education programs offered across Australia. The results from these searches highlighted considerable variation across sports with respect to the course costs, time commitments required, delivery mode, and content. Most sports offered one or two community-level courses and cost between zero to $383.69. Time commitments varied from 90 min to six months, and delivery modes included online learning, blended formats, and in some cases on-the-job training. Content offerings ranged from three to 11 modules, with some emphasising sport-specific technical skills while others focused on broader coaching principles. Understanding the diverse approaches currently adopted in Australia may serve to inform future community coach education programs in various national and international sporting contexts.		[Bennie, Andrew; Grainger, Andrew; Guntoro, Jessica D.; Kennedy, Sarah G.] Western Sydney Univ, Fac Hlth, Sch Hlth Sci, Kingswood, Australia; [Bennie, Andrew] Sch Hlth Sci, Hlth & Phys Educ & Sport Dev, Kingswood Campus,Bldg K,Room 06 D, Sydney, NSW 2747, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001788704100001	54	Article; Article		
J	Buenemann, S.; Behlau, C.; Tietjens, M.; Strauss, B.								Experiencing a team performance crisis during a losing streak: A case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261451852				2026	While poor performance (e.g., losing streaks) seems to be necessary for a performance crisis, it is not a sufficient criterion. A team performance crisis is defined as lasting underperformance, involving threat states of team members. The team cannot cope with the situation and team functioning suffers. The overall aim of the present study was to align these theoretical considerations with the perspective of athletes experiencing poor performance. More specifically, the research questions focus on the understating of crises, predispositions and triggers of crises, as well as emotional and cognitive responses. In a case of N = 12 female youth athletes of a team that experienced a losing streak, semi-structured interviews were conducted and analysed using content analysis. First, athletes defined a crisis similar to the theoretically conceptualised team performance crisis. Second, many team factors and context variables were identified as either protective (e.g., the motivational climate in the team in question) or as a risk factor (e.g., frequent fluctuation of players) for performance crises. Third, attribution, expectations, and consequences played a role in the experience of crisis, but in a more complex way than theoretically proposed. Based on the findings, we suggest preventative measures for sport psychology consultants and coaches, as well as possible reflections for practitioners dealing with teams in crises.		[Buenemann, S.; Behlau, C.; Tietjens, M.; Strauss, B.] Univ Munster, Dept Sport & Exercise Psychol, Horstmarer Landweg 62b, D-48149 Munster, Germany; [Behlau, C.] TU Dortmund Univ, Sport & Exercise Psychol, Dortmund, Germany; [Buenemann, S.] Univ Munster, Dept Sport & Exercise Psychol, Horstmarer Landweg 62b, D-48149 Munster, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001786739600001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fernandez, Garrett; Bullock, Garrett; Zappa, Ryan; Oliver, Gretchen; Nicholson, Kristen								Biomechanical drivers of fastball velocity identified from In-game motion capture using Super Learner ensemble modelling								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2680518				2026	This study used in-game markerless motion capture to develop a Super Learner ensemble model for predicting fastball velocity, with the aim of identifying key biomechanical contributors and evaluating generalisability across conferences. Data were collected from 322 NCAA Division I pitchers (ACC: n = 122; SEC: n = 200) between 2022 and 2024. The ensemble combined five algorithms-elastic net, random forest, support vector machines, gradient boosting, and multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS)-and was trained using 10-fold cross-validation with internal-external validation by conference. Internal performance yielded RMSE 2.70 mph (95% CI 2.44-2.99), MAE 2.10 mph (95% CI 1.93-2.29), R2 = 0.29 (95% CI 0.21-0.36), and calibration slope = 0.99 (95% CI 0.83-1.15). Internal-external performance was direction-dependent (SEC -> ACC RMSE = 3.04 mph, 95% CI 2.51-3.63; ACC -> SEC RMSE = 2.55 mph, 95% CI 2.33-2.77). Height was the most influential predictor (81.2%), followed by mass (2.47%). Algorithm weights favoured elastic net (62.6%), followed by support vector machines (19.8%), gradient boosting (13.6%), and random forest (4%). Findings suggest that biomechanical strategies for generating velocity vary between groups and highlight the potential of ensemble machine learning to identify biomechanical contributors to fastball velocity and inform individualised analysis in baseball.		[Fernandez, Garrett; Bullock, Garrett; Nicholson, Kristen] Wake Forest Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, Winston Salem, NC 27157 USA; [Bullock, Garrett] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Bullock, Garrett] Wake Forest Univ, Sch Med, Dept Biostat & Data Sci, Winston Salem, NC 27157 USA; [Bullock, Garrett] Univ Oxford, Ctr Sport Exercise & Osteoarthritis Res versus Art, Oxford, England; [Zappa, Ryan; Oliver, Gretchen] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Auburn, AL USA; [Fernandez, Garrett] Wake Forest Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, Winston Salem, NC 27157 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001787810200001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Prempeh, Angel G. A.; Pellizzari, Michael; Akinyemi, Victor; Patel, Shivam; Vespa, Victoria; Galardi, William; Tenfelde, Allison; Jildeh, Toufic R.								Impact of Achilles tendon rupture on performance and career outcomes in NFL players: a matched cohort study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2682120				2026	PurposeTo evaluate the impact of Achilles tendon ruptures (ATRs) on return to play, longitudinal performance, and career longevity in National Football League (NFL) players using a matched cohort design.MethodsA retrospective matched cohort study of 62 NFL players who sustained ATRs between 2008 and 2022, matched 1:1 to 62 non-injured controls by position, age (+/- 1 year), height (+/- 2 inches), weight (+/- 10 lbs), and years in league (+/- 1 year). Return-to-play (RTP) was assessed using multivariable logistic regression. Performance was measured using Approximate Value (AV) across three seasons before and after injury. Mixed-effects difference-in-differences modeling with placebo testing and survival analysis were the primary analytic methods.ResultsMean age at injury was 27.24 +/- 3.46 years. The RTP rate was 80.6% (50/62). Defensive position was the only independent predictor of RTP (OR 8.30, 95% CI 1.48-42.08; p = .015). ATR was associated with a 20.7% injury-attributable performance decline beyond natural career aging (DiD beta = -1.24 AV; p = .043), with the largest decrement in the first post-injury season. Of 48 players with valid pre- and post-injury data, only 27.1% recovered to their pre-injury performance level. ATR independently increased the hazard of career termination by 68% (HR 1.68, 95% CI 1.18-2.39; p = .004), with injured players accruing 1.4 fewer active seasons over 10 years.ConclusionsATRs in NFL players are associated with significant and persistent performance decline beyond natural career aging, despite a high RTP rate. Return to play does not equate to restoration of pre-injury performance or preservation of career longevity.Level of evidenceLevel III, retrospective matched cohort study.		[Prempeh, Angel G. A.; Pellizzari, Michael; Akinyemi, Victor; Patel, Shivam; Vespa, Victoria; Galardi, William; Tenfelde, Allison; Jildeh, Toufic R.] Michigan State Univ, Coll Human Med, 804 Service Rd,Suite A112, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Prempeh, Angel G. A.] Michigan State Univ, Coll Human Med, 804 Service Rd,Suite A112, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001785593000001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Duarte Martins, Alexandre; Fernandes, Orlando; Brito, Joao Paulo; Goncalves, Bruno; Oliveira, Rafael; Batalha, Nuno								Effects of a 16-Week High-Speed Resistance Training Program on Isokinetic Muscle Strength Parameters and Health-Related Quality of Life in Independent Older Adults: A Clinical Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2661889				2026	This study investigated the effects of a 16-week high-speed resistance training (HSRT) program on isokinetic muscle strength parameters and, secondarily, on health-related quality of life (HRQOL). Seventy-nine independent older adults were assigned to an intervention group (IG) and a control group (CG). The IG completed supervised HSRT three times per week, while the CG received no intervention. Each session lasted 60-70 minutes and included 5-6 exercises of 2-3 sets at maximal concentric speed and a controlled eccentric phase (approximate to 2-3 seconds). Isokinetic muscle strength was assessed pre- and post-intervention using isokinetic testing of knee extensors (KE) and flexors (KF) at 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s on dominant (DS) and non-dominant sides (NDS). The HRQOL was measured using the SF-36 questionnaire. The IG demonstrated significant improvements in peak torque for KE-DS (triangle change: 14.02 Nm; p < .001; eta(2)(p) = 0.215), KE-NDS (triangle change: 16.19 Nm; p < .001; eta(2)(p) = 0.290), KF-DS (triangle change: 8.06 Nm; p < .001; eta(2)(p) = 0.290), and KF-NDS (triangle change: 8.33 Nm; p = .002; eta(2)(p) = 0.125), as well as in average muscle power for KE-DS (triangle change: 15.51 W; p < .001; eta(2)(p) = 0.328), KE-NDS (triangle change: 17.33 W; p < .001; eta(2)(p) = 0.298), KF-DS (triangle change: 8.21 W; p < .001; eta(2)(p) = 0.284), and KF-NDS (triangle change: 8.06 W; p = .005; eta(2)(p) = 0.100). HRQOL improvements were also observed. The present HSRT protocol effectively improves isokinetic muscle parameters and HRQOL measures in older adults.		[Duarte Martins, Alexandre; Fernandes, Orlando; Goncalves, Bruno; Batalha, Nuno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Escola Saude & Desenvolvimento Humano, Dept Desporto & Saude, P-7004516 Evora, Portugal; [Duarte Martins, Alexandre; Brito, Joao Paulo; Oliveira, Rafael] Santarem Polytech Univ, Life Qual Res Ctr CIEQV, Complexo Andaluz,Apartado 279, P-2001904 Santarem, Portugal; [Duarte Martins, Alexandre; Brito, Joao Paulo; Oliveira, Rafael] Santarem Polytech Univ, Sch Sport, Ave Dr Mario Soares, P-2040413 Rio Maior, Portugal; [Brito, Joao Paulo; Oliveira, Rafael] Santarem Polytech Univ, Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Ave Dr Mario Soares, P-2040413 Rio Maior, Portugal; [Batalha, Nuno] Minist Culture & Sport Spain, Hlth Age Res Network Act Aging Exercise & Hlth, Consejo Super Deportes CSD, Madrid 28040, Spain; [Duarte Martins, Alexandre] Escola Saude & Desenvolvimento Humano, Dept Desporto & Saude, Largo Colegiais 2, P-7000671 Evora, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001786554400001	72	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Rosario, Samuel D.; Garcia, Micah C.; Crutchfield, Emily; Murray, Amanda; Norte, Grant; Bazett-Jones, David M.								Age-related differences in tibial accelerations and cadence between paved and unpaved trail surfaces during a prolonged run								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2681952				2026	Running on unpaved trails is commonly perceived to reduce impact loading and injury risk, yet biomechanical evidence remains limited across age groups. We investigated the effects of paved versus unpaved surfaces on running biomechanics and surface-related injury risk perceptions in Master and young adult runners. Sixty participants (30 Master, 30 young adult) completed 5 km runs on both surfaces while wearing triaxial tibial accelerometers. We compared average cadence, peak resultant and axial tibial acceleration (TA), and cumulative resultant and axial TA using ANCOVA, controlling for running speed. Peak resultant TA was higher on unpaved than paved surfaces (p = .014), whereas cadence, peak axial TA, and cumulative axial and resultant TA did not differ between surfaces (p > .05). Master runners exhibited higher cadence and lower peak resultant TA than young adults (p < .05), while cumulative resultant TA did not differ by age (p > .05). Nearly half the participants (48.3%) perceived that running on unpaved trails reduces injury risk. Overall, unpaved trails produced higher peak TA without changing cumulative TA. Age-group differences in cadence were accompanied by lower peak resultant TA for Master runners, suggesting an age-related shift towards reduced per-step impact magnitude.		[Rosario, Samuel D.; Crutchfield, Emily; Murray, Amanda] Univ Toledo, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Garcia, Micah C.] Thomas More Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Crestview Hills, KY USA; [Norte, Grant] Univ Cent Florida, Sch Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Orlando, FL USA; [Bazett-Jones, David M.] High Point Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, High Point, NC USA; [Rosario, Samuel D.] Univ Toledo, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001786548200001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Oyama, Sakiko; Stephens, Brian; Giambini, Hugo								Effects of stance foot centre of pressure and timing of heel lift on ground reaction force and stride mechanics in Amateur baseball pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2682978				2026	The movement and positioning of the body during the early phases of the pitching motion can have cascading effects on downstream mechanics. While stride mechanics have been the focus of recent research, the role of stance foot mechanics in generating ground reaction force (GRF) and influencing stride kinematics remains unclear. This study aimed to determine whether stance foot centre of pressure (COP) location and heel lift timing are related to stride-phase GRF and stride kinematics in baseball pitchers. Biomechanical data were collected from 60 high school and 15 collegiate pitchers using a motion capture system and force platforms. Within the high school pitchers, COP location at the time of peak forward GRF and heel lift timing were analysed in relation to GRF and stride mechanics. Most high school and collegiate pitchers generated peak forward force through the forefoot and maintained heel contact with the ground throughout most (similar to 85%) of the stride phase of pitching. The timing of heel lift and COP location at the time of peak forward GRF were not associated with forward propulsive force, stride mechanics, or ball speed, but were associated with pelvis orientation at lead foot contact in high-school pitchers.		[Oyama, Sakiko; Stephens, Brian] Univ Texas San Antonio, Dept Kinesiol, San Antonio, TX 78249 USA; [Giambini, Hugo] Univ Texas San Antonio, Dept Biomed Engn & Chem Engn, San Antonio, TX USA; [Oyama, Sakiko] Univ Texas San Antonio, Dept Kinesiol, San Antonio, TX 78249 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001786046000001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Peters, Andrew; Parmar, Nimai; Davies, Michael; James, Nic								When Timing Matters: Evaluating Temporal Leakage in Machine Learning Models of Football Pass Turnovers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2677718				2026	The Expected Pass Turnovers (xPT) model advances turnover probability quantification in professional football, but the inclusion of post-pass descriptive features such as ball speed and distance moved introduces temporal leakage and limits real-time tactical utility. This study compares the original xPT framework with leakage-corrected alternatives across four modeling approaches: mixed-effects logistic regression, penalized logistic regression, random forest, and gradient boosting. Using 256,433 passes from the 2020-21 English Premier League, we evaluated the performance of leakage-inclusive and leakage-corrected feature sets using grouped cross-validation and cross-validated ROC-AUC, accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, F-measure, and Brier score. Removing post-execution features reduced ROC-AUC by 0.082-0.183 (mean = 0.136), with tree-based methods experiencing larger performance losses than logistic approaches. The best-performing alternative model, gradient boosting (ROC-AUC = 0.742), approached the default mixed-effects logistic model (ROC-AUC = 0.789), indicating that substantial predictive signal remains after leakage correction. Alternative models retained acceptable sensitivity and calibration, supporting their use in prospective tactical deployment. SHAP analysis showed that default models relied heavily on four post-pass descriptive variables, whereas leakage-corrected models shifted toward pressing intensity and tactical context variables that are available before pass execution. The findings suggest that default xPT-style models are well suited to retrospective analysis, while leakage-corrected models are more appropriate for real-time tactical decision-making.		[Peters, Andrew; Parmar, Nimai; Davies, Michael; James, Nic] Middlesex Univ, London, England; [Peters, Andrew; Davies, Michael] Leicester City Football Club, Leicester, England; [Peters, Andrew] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London NW4 4BT, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001784223700001	24	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lopez-Araya, Sofia; Lago-Penas, Carlos; Pino-Ortega, Jose; Ibanez, Sergio Jose								Analysis of playing styles in the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261450012				2026	Despite the growing interest in Women's Football, there is still limited evidence on the factors that determine success in this sport. The aim of this study was to analyze the Playing Styles of the national teams that participated in the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup. The sample included all matches played in the tournament (n = 64). A total of 33 Performance Indicators were analyzed, obtained from the official FIFA website. Principal Component Analysis was used to reduce the number of variables, and upper and lower quartiles were calculated both overall and by confederation. The main results suggest that three Playing Styles were used during the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup: Counterattack-Finishing, Elaborated Attack, and Reactive-Defensive. The use of Playing Styles varied across teams, showing that sporting success was based on maintaining a balance between Counterattack-Finishing and Elaborated Attack. Teams within the same confederation also differed in the Playing Styles they used, indicating the application of different strategies rather than a single shared trend. These findings may help optimize performance in Women's Football by supporting the adjustment of strategies to the most frequently used Playing Styles and by informing planning for future competitions.		[Lopez-Araya, Sofia; Ibanez, Sergio Jose] Univ Extremadura, Fac Ciencias Deporte, Caceres, Spain; [Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Vigo, Spain; [Pino-Ortega, Jose] Univ Murcia, Fac Ciencias Deporte, Murcia, Spain; [Lopez-Araya, Sofia] Univ Extremadura, Caceres, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001784878900001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wang, Haolin; Yu, Shaoyong; Cui, Changshui								An empirical study on Chinese coaches' control of teams from the perspective of empowerment theory								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2022	2038		10.1177/17479541251393379			AUG 2026	2026	Research Purpose This study, from the perspective of empowerment theory, focuses on the power operation mechanism of coaches in the process of team management. It mainly analyzes the impact of organizational empowerment on coaches' control of team, and further explores the influence mechanism after introducing two organizational variables-mentor-apprentice relationship and team climate-as well as the moderating effect of power distance as a dynamic variable.Research Methods A total of 1071 athletes from basketball, volleyball, and football in China were surveyed using a scale-based testing method, covering professional teams, youth teams, and high-level university teams. Regression analysis, factor analysis, and structural equation modeling were employed for data processing.Research Findings (1) Organizational empowerment directly and positively affects coaches' control of team, and can also influence it through the mentor-apprentice relationship, team climate, or both simultaneously. In other words, the mentor-apprentice relationship and team climate not only function as independent mediators between organizational empowerment and coaches' control of team but also jointly serve as chain mediators. (2) Power distance negatively moderates the dual-path mediating mechanism of organizational empowerment on coaches' control of team. Specifically, it negatively moderates the effect of organizational empowerment on both the mentor-apprentice relationship and the team climate, with the moderating effect being more evident under conditions of low power distance.		[Wang, Haolin; Yu, Shaoyong] Xidian Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 2 Taibai South Rd, Xian 710071, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Cui, Changshui] Xian Int Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Xian, Peoples R China; [Yu, Shaoyong] Xidian Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 2 Taibai South Rd, Xian 710071, Shaanxi, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001783746800001	55	Article; Article		
J	Nguyen, Anh Phong; Hansoulle, Thomas; Van Cant, Joachim; de Fontenay, Benoit Pairot; Hebert-Losier, Kim								Running with and without blood flow restriction on fatigability and biomechanics: a cross-over trial								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2681953				2026	Running assessments are frequently conducted without inducing fatigability because achieving true exhaustion in athletes can be both time consuming and physically demanding. Blood flow restriction (BFR) presents a potential solution by reducing time-to-exhaustion. To determine whether running with BFR (1) accelerates fatiguability compared to standard running and (2) influences running spatiotemporal parameters, including step frequency, step length, contact time, flight time, and duty factor. Sixteen participants (11 men, 5 women) completed two cross-over running trials until exhaustion under two conditions: control and 80% occlusion BFR. Time-to-exhaustion and heart rate were recorded as well as pre/post run maximal voluntary isometric contractions for knee flexors, knee extensors, and ankle plantar flexors. Running spatiotemporal parameters were measured at 65% of maximal aerobic speed both before and after exhaustive running. The BFR protocol significantly shortened time-to-exhaustion (7 min 51 s +/- 2 min 54 s vs. 24 min 02 s +/- 12 min 10 s in control, p < .001). Heart rate at exhaustion was lower in the BFR condition (169.5 +/- 19.0 vs. 188.1 +/- 8.9 bpm, p = .001). Post-run knee flexors strength declined similarly in both protocols (similar to 21%), indicating comparable neuromuscular fatigability despite the shorter BFR running time. None of the spatiotemporal parameters differed significantly between conditions (p > .074). Running with BFR accelerates fatigability without significantly affecting running spatiotemporal parameters		[Nguyen, Anh Phong; Hansoulle, Thomas] Catholic Univ Louvain, Inst Rech Experimentale & Clin, Neuromusculoskeletal lab, Brussels, Belgium; [Nguyen, Anh Phong; Van Cant, Joachim; de Fontenay, Benoit Pairot; Hebert-Losier, Kim] Running Clin, Lac Beauport, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Van Cant, Joachim] Univ Libre Bruxelles, Fac Human Movement Sci, Brussels, Belgium; [de Fontenay, Benoit Pairot] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Inter Univ Lab Human Movement Sci, Villeurbanne, France; [de Fontenay, Benoit Pairot] Clin Sauvegarde, Ramsay Sante, Lyon, France; [Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Hansoulle, Thomas] Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil & Social Integra, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Hansoulle, Thomas] Catholic Univ Louvain, Inst Rech Experimentale & Clin, Neuromusculoskeletal lab, Brussels, Belgium								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001783442200001	49	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Martins, Ricardo; Pattison, William; Davies, Katie Fitton; Smith, Rose; Gjesdal, Siv; Tallis, Jason; Kim, Soyoung; Duncan, Michael								Children's experiences of increasing competitiveness in football: A Write-Draw-Show-Tell study across developmental stages								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261455252				2026	Background: As football becomes more competitive with age, children's experiences of the game may change, with enjoyment playing an important role in continued participation. Limited research has examined how children understand this shift or interpret associated psychological pressures. This study used a Write-Draw-Show-Tell (WDST) approach to explore children's enjoyment, perceptions of seriousness, and emotional responses across developmental stages in transition to a more competitive level. Methods: Forty six children from grassroots football in the West Midlands, UK participated across two age groups (U13). Eleven focus groups were conducted, including six groups with boys (n = 24) and five with girls (n = 22). Groups completed WDST activities incorporating short written prompts, drawing tasks, and guided discussions. Data were inductively analysed using reflexive thematic analysis, supported by pen profile diagrams. Results: Five themes captured children's experiences of increasing competitiveness in football and illustrated how enjoyment, pressure, support, and emotional responses were intertwined across developmental phases: friendship and fun (n = 43), winning and improvement (n = 37), emotional highs and lows (n = 31), support systems (n = 34), and developing within the game (n = 27). Gendered patterns were evident, with girls more frequently emphasising emotional support and social belonging, while boys described competitiveness, performance expectations, and outcome focused pressure. Conclusion: Children's enjoyment shifted from being socially anchored and play centred to being increasingly shaped by evaluation and performance expectations, with boys and girls emphasising different aspects of this transition. Findings highlight the need for age appropriate coaching and parent practices that protect enjoyment while supporting development as competitive demands increase.		[Martins, Ricardo] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Pattison, William; Smith, Rose; Tallis, Jason; Kim, Soyoung; Duncan, Michael] Coventry Univ, Ctr Phys Act Sport & Exercise Sci, Coventry, England; [Pattison, William] Hartpury Univ, Dept Sport, Hartpury, Glos, England; [Davies, Katie Fitton] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Gjesdal, Siv] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Sport & Social Sci, Oslo, Norway; [Martins, Ricardo] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001782266900001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Runacres, Adam; Field, Adam; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Birdsey, Laurence P.								Training and recovery practices to maintain performance across a competition: Elite coach and practitioner perspectives								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261454337				2026	To investigate current practices and perspectives of elite coaches and practitioners on training and recovery practices to maintain performance across competitions requiring multiple performances within or on consecutive days, thirty-six participants (12 coaches, 24 practitioners) supporting Olympic or World Championship-standard athletes completed a mixed-methods online survey. Questions addressed training and recovery practice use, perceived efficacy, barriers to implementation, and future research needs. Quantitative data were summarised descriptively, while open-ended responses were analysed using inductive content analysis. Respondents worked across 18 sports with cycling (all disciplines, n = 11), athletics (all disciplines, n = 8) and swimming (all distances, n = 5) most represented. All respondents (100%) employed event-specific training and periodised programmes, perceived as highly effective in maintaining performance across a competition (>= 95%). Match simulations (94%), strength/resistance training (94%), and high-intensity interval training (92%) were also widely implemented and perceived effective (>= 92%). During within-day competition, nutrition and fluid intake were universally implemented (100%) and perceived highly effective (97%), whereas contrast bathing (27%), muscle stimulation (7%), and heat application (7%) showed minimal use and low perceived benefit (<= 20%). For consecutive-day competition, nutrition and fluid intake remained universal (100%), with high perceived effectiveness (100%), while sleep-related practices were used by 77% and rated 90% effective. Barriers to implementation included logistical constraints, limited resources, and uncertainty of scientific evidence. Elite coaches and practitioners adopt a range of established training and recovery practices to maintain competition performance, yet their application appears shaped by logistical constraints and athlete belief rather than empirical validation.		[Runacres, Adam; Field, Adam; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Birdsey, Laurence P.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Birdsey, Laurence P.] UK Sports Inst, Manchester, England; [Field, Adam] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001781489700001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Jager, Johannes; Rumpf, Michael C.; Barrett, Steve; Meixner, Benedikt; Lochmann, Matthias								Touch restrictions and player numbers during small-sided games in youth soccer players: Effects on physical and technical parameters								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261450910				2026	This study examined how player numbers and touch restrictions influence physical and technical demands during small-sided games (SSGs) in youth soccer. Sixteen U15 players completed 3v3, 5v5, and 7v7 formats under one-touch (1 T), two-touch (2 T), and free play (FP) conditions on regular goals, with a constant relative pitch size, four 3-min bouts, and 3-min passive recovery between bouts. Physical variables (total distance [TD], high-intensity distance [HID >14.4 km/h], sprint distance [SpD >19.8 km/h], peak speed, sprint counts, number of accelerations [ACC > 2 m/s(2)] and decelerations [DEC > - 2 m/s(2)]) and technical actions (ball touches, releases, possessions, one-touch plays) were recorded using inertial measurement units. Generalized linear mixed-effect models, with exponentiated regression coefficients, showed that ball touches increased from 3v3 to 5v5 across all touch conditions (30-39%), whereas ball releases were primarily elevated in larger formats under 2 T conditions (35-37%). Sprint frequency was higher in larger formats across touch conditions, while SpD decreased from 3v3 to 7v7 (-26% to -27%). Increases in DEC in 3v3 were observed only under 2 T (42%) and FP conditions (49%). Isolated increases in 5v5 compared to 7v7 under 2 T (+31%) were shown for HID. Lower player numbers consistently increased DEC and individual ball involvement, especially under 2 T and FP conditions, whereas larger formats promoted sprint frequency and SpD. These findings suggest that adjusting player numbers is generally more effective than modifying touch restrictions, but combining both strategies can optimize specific physical and technical outcomes in youth players when employing SSGs.		[Jager, Johannes; Rumpf, Michael C.; Meixner, Benedikt; Lochmann, Matthias] Friedrich Alexander Univ, Inst Sport Sci & Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Med, Erlangen, Germany; [Rumpf, Michael C.] Footballscience Net, Dreieich, Germany; [Rumpf, Michael C.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Barrett, Steve] Playermaker, London, England; [Barrett, Steve] Global Inst Sport, Manchester, England; [Meixner, Benedikt] Julius Maximilians Univ, Dept Sport Sci Integrat & Expt Exercise Sci & Trai, Wurzburg, Germany; [Jager, Johannes] Gebbertstr 123b, D-91058 Erlangen, Germany								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001782267900001	61	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Peek, Kerry; Roughead, Eliza; Bruder, Andrea M.; Ross, Andrew G.; Scott, Dawn; Wilson, Belinda; Mosler, Andrea B.								"Teaching the right technique early": Coach and player experiences of heading in women and girl's football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261449737				2026	Objectives To explore the exposure, perspectives and experiences of heading in both women and girls who play football, and coaches of women and girls' football.Design A convergent parallel mixed methods cross-sectional study.Method Quantitative data were collected via an online questionnaire completed by 211 players and 45 coaches. Qualitative data were obtained through semi-structured interviews with 17 players and 12 coaches. Descriptive statistics and reflexive thematic analysis were used to analyse the data.Results Most players reported performing 1-10 headers per week, yet 50% had never received formal heading training. Similarly, 71% of coaches had not received formal education on coaching heading, despite 49% reporting they coach it. Players were more likely to report fear and pain with heading as well as a previous concussion, if they had not been coached on heading technique. Both players and coaches expressed interest in receiving heading technique training. Key factors identified for safe and effective heading included body positioning, neck and core strength, and tracking the ball. Players reported fear of injury and lack of confidence, often linked to poor technique and limited training. Barriers to coaching heading cited by coaches included: safety concerns, lack of resources, and environmental constraints.Conclusion Heading remains a common and essential skill in women's football, yet formal training is lacking. There is a clear need for accessible, evidence-informed resources and coaching frameworks to support safe and effective heading skill development. Football organisations should prioritise gender-responsive strategies to improve coaching practices and player confidence in heading.		[Peek, Kerry] Federat Int Football Assoc, FIFA Med, Zurich, Switzerland; [Peek, Kerry; Roughead, Eliza; Ross, Andrew G.; Mosler, Andrea B.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, Sydney, Australia; [Roughead, Eliza; Bruder, Andrea M.; Mosler, Andrea B.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Australia; [Bruder, Andrea M.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Dept Physiotherapy Podiatry Prosthet & Orthot, Melbourne, Australia; [Ross, Andrew G.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Australia; [Scott, Dawn; Wilson, Belinda] Federat Int Football Assoc, FIFA Womens Div, Zurich, Switzerland; [Peek, Kerry] Federat Int Football Assoc, FIFA Med, Zurich, Switzerland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001781499700001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Yan, Hongwei; Zhu, Yuqiao; Li, Xinlin								The impact of the instant video replay session on the contest process in the Taekwondo event at the Paris 2024 Olympics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1850	1862		10.1177/17479541251343869			JUN 2026	2026	Based on the IVR (instant video replay) rules of the Paris Olympic taekwondo cycle, this study aimed to investigate (1) whether coaches' IVR appeals influence contest outcomes, and (2) how specific contest elements affect IVR outcomes. The video recordings of 156 taekwondo contests from the Paris Olympics were analyzed. Variables selected included the contest period, state, round, category, and IVR content. The results showed that, points were awarded after the IVR proposed by the coaches in 85 rounds (44.04% of IVR-involved rounds), subsequently altering contest outcomes. The frequency of appealed IVRs increased per 30-s period in the 2-min contest (p < 0.05). The distribution of approved and rejected IVRs differed depending on the period (divided into 60-s) during the contest, contest status, contest round, and IVR content (p < 0.05), but did not depend on the period (divided into 30-s) during the contest or contest category (p > 0.05). We concluded that IVR significantly impacts the outcome of the taekwondo contests at the Paris Olympics, and coaches are permitted to appeal decisions deemed erroneous to increase the contest's fairness using PSS (Protective System and Scoring) but should also continue to modify the content of the IVR rule.		[Yan, Hongwei; Zhu, Yuqiao; Li, Xinlin] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Xingxi Rd 48, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yan, Hongwei] Yong Univ, Coll Martial Arts, Yongin, Gyeonggi, South Korea; [Zhu, Yuqiao] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Xingxi Rd 48, Beijing, Peoples R China								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001509058800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Lu, Jiaojiao; Qiu, Jun; An, Yan								Machine Learning-Based Classification of Alertness Levels in Elite Shooting Athletes Using Heart Rate Variability								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	2			476	486		10.52082/jssm.2026.476			JUN 2026	2026	This study aims to develop a predictive model for alertness levels in elite shooting athletes by analyzing heart rate variability (HRV) dynamics under simulated competitive stress. 83 national-level shooting athletes completed a 60-minute Psychomotor Vigilance Task (PVT) protocol designed to mimic the sustained attentional demands of a competition, while HRV data were continuously recorded. Pearson correlation analysis identified HRV features associated with behavioral performance. Key predictors were selected via recursive feature elimination with Random Forest. Four machine learning algorithms-Support Vector Machine (SVM), Random Forest (RF), XGBoost, and AdaBoost-were employed to construct classification models for alertness. Model performance was evaluated using accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, and the area under the ROC curve (AUC). SHAP analysis was applied to interpret feature contributions. The binary classification framework (optimal vs. sub-optimal alertness) demonstrated superior reliability over multi-class approaches. The AdaBoost model achieved the best performance, with an accuracy of 0.75, an F1-score of 0.73, and an AUC of 0.77. SHAP analysis revealed that the very low frequency percentage (VLF%) was the most critical predictor, followed by the SD2/SD1 ratio. Notably, elevated VLF% values were associated with lower alertness levels. The binary classification model, integrating key HRV indices (notably VLF%) with the AdaBoost algorithm, can effectively distinguish alertness levels in shooting athletes during simulated competitive stress. This approach provides a validated, non-invasive tool for objective psychophysiological monitoring in training, offering actionable insights for pre-competition readiness assessment.		[Lu, Jiaojiao] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Lu, Jiaojiao; Qiu, Jun; An, Yan] Shanghai Res Inst Sports Sci, Shanghai Antidoping Agcy, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Qiu, Jun] Shanghai Res Inst Sports Sci, Shanghai Antidoping Agcy, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001777755700001	31	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Fahui; Hautier, Christophe; Song, Lin; Zhou, Yong; Guignard, Brice; Glaise, Paul; Zhang, Qingshan								A Drone-Based Method to Measure Sprint Force-Velocity Profiles in 30-Meter Sprint Test-A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	2			536	546		10.52082/jssm.2026.536			JUN 2026	2026	The objective was to determine the test-retest reliability and concurrent validity of a drone system in comparison to a radar device. Seventeen male collegiate soccer players participated in two maximal 30-meter sprint runs. The test-retest reliability of the drone system was evaluated using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC3,1), coefficient of variation (CV%), and standard error of measurement (SEM). Subsequently, the systematic bias and consistency of the two devices on various force-velocity (F-V) variables (e.g., maximal velocity [V-max], theoretical maximal velocity [V-0], theoretical maximal horizontal force [F-0], the slope of the F-V relationship [S-FV]) were evaluated using linear mixed model (LMM) and Bland-Altman analysis. The drone system demonstrated moderate to excellent test-retest reliability across all variables (0.59 <= ICC <= 0.95; CV% < 10%). While LMM analysis detected significant systematic differences for V-max (p = 0.013) and V-0 (p = 0.012), Bland-Altman analysis confirmed high practical agreement with minimal bias (<= 1.12%) and narrow limits of agreement (LoA < 10%). P-max, split times (T-5m-T-20m) and average accelerations (A(10m)-A(20m)) demonstrated greater consistency (%Bias <= 0.76%) with no significant systematic bias (p > 0.05). Conversely, early-acceleration and model-derived metrics (Tau, A(max), F-0, S-FV) exhibited significant bias (p <= 0.028) and wide LoA exceeding 10% (e.g., F-0: -13.37% to 8.56%; S-FV: -11.54% to 18.18%). In conclusion, although the drone system exhibits high monitoring value in the maximum speed phase, early-acceleration metrics (A(max), F-0, and T-5m) should be interpreted with caution for individual-level monitoring. The tracking instability during the early acceleration phase necessitates further algorithm optimization.		[Wang, Fahui; Hautier, Christophe; Guignard, Brice; Glaise, Paul; Zhang, Qingshan] Univ Lyon 1, LIBM, UR 7424, Villeurbanne, France; [Song, Lin; Zhou, Yong; Zhang, Qingshan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Qingshan] Univ Lyon 1, LIBM, UR 7424, Villeurbanne, France; [Zhang, Qingshan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001793849200016	49	Article; Article		
J	Woo, Jong-Su; Shin, Won-Seob								Effects of Quadriceps Strengthening Exercise with Blood Flow Restriction on Knee Angular Velocity, Strength, and Balance in Fencers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	2			502	513		10.52082/jssm.2026.502			JUN 2026	2026	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of lowload blood flow restriction (BFR) training on lower limb kinematics during the fencing lunge, quadriceps strength, and balance in collegiate fencers. Sixteen collegiate sabre and epee fencers were randomly assigned to either a BFR group (n = 8) or a general leg extension (GLE) group (n = 8). Both groups performed 6 weeks of leg extension training. The BFR group trained at 30% of 1 repetition maximum (1RM) and the GLE group at 70% of 1RM. Due to dropouts, data from 14 participants were included in the final analysis. Primary outcomes were lower limb kinematics during three defined phases of the fencing lunge, quadriceps isometric strength, and static balance, assessed before and after the intervention. Between-group comparisons of change scores (0) were evaluated using effect sizes (Rank-biserial r) with 95% confismall-to-large effect sizes favoring BFR across rear leg kinematic variables in all fencing lunge phases (r = 0.24 - 0.52). The largest effect was observed in rear leg hip flexion angle during Phase 3 (r = 0.52, 95% CI: -0.01 to 0.83). Significant between-group dif2 (p = .043) and rear leg hip extension angular velocity during Phase 3 (p = .029). Both groups showed significant increases in rear leg quadriceps strength (p < .05), with no meaningful changes in static balance. These kinematic improvements are functionally relevant, as greater rear leg hip flexion and faster angular velocity during the fencing lunge are associated with increased propulsive force and more effective lunge execution in BFR training may produce small-to-large effects on rear leg kintraining for improving fencing performance.		[Woo, Jong-Su; Shin, Won-Seob] Daejeon Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Daejeon, South Korea; [Shin, Won-Seob] Daejeon Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Daejeon, South Korea								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001779178900001	43	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Yang; Zhang, Muyan; Luo, Zixuan								Effects of Various Exercise Interventions on Sprint Performance and Jump Height in Soccer Players: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	2			405	445		10.52082/jssm.2026.405			JUN 2026	2026	To evaluate and compare the effects of six exercise interventions on sprint performance and vertical jump height in soccer players using a systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA). A comprehensive literature search was conducted across PubMed, Embase, the Cochrane Library, Web of Science, and SPORTDiscus for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) published from January 2000 to 30 September 2025. Thirty-one eligible studies were included, covering Traditional Strength Training, Plyometric Jump Training, Speed Training, Endurance Training, Flexibility Training, and Regular Training. A frequentist random-effects network meta-analysis was conducted. Outcomes were pre-specified hierarchically, with sprint performance and vertical jump height as co-primary outcomes and COD and 1RM as secondary outcomes; secondary outcomes were interpreted as supportive rather than primary evidence. Traditional Strength Training was most effective for 5-m sprint performance (SUCRA = 99.8%; MD =- 0.09 s, 95% CI:-0.11 to-0.07), 20-m sprint performance (SUCRA = 89.9%; MD =-0.13 s, 95% CI:-0.20 to-0.06), and squat jump height (SUCRA = 86.2%; MD = 4.40 cm, 95% CI: 2.07 to 6.74). For the 30-m sprint, Speed Training ranked highest by SUCRA (74.2%), but the comparison with Regular Training was not statistically significant (MD =-0.16 s, 95% CI:-0.34 to 0.01). For the 40-m sprint, no intervention showed a statistically significant advantage over Regular Training. Among the prespecified co-primary outcomes, Traditional Strength Training appears to provide the most consistent benefits for short-sprint acceleration (5-20 m) and vertical jump performance in soccer players. Evidence for 30-40 m sprint performance was uncertain, and secondary outcomes (COD and 1RM) should be interpreted as supportive rather than as the primary basis for overall effectiveness claims. These findings support prioritizing strength-oriented training when short-sprint acceleration and vertical jump performance are key goals; however, the implications should be interpreted cautiously because certainty varied across comparisons and residual uncertainty remains. The protocol for this systematic review was prospectively registered in PROSPERO (CRD42024608868).		[Wang, Yang; Zhang, Muyan; Luo, Zixuan] Tomsk State Univ, Fac Phys Culture, Tomsk, Russia; [Luo, Zixuan] Tomsk State Univ, Fac Phys Culture, Tomsk, Russia								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001759574800001	101	Article; Article		
J	Van, Hao; Zhai, Haiting; Wang, Tingting; Wang, Duchun; Wei, Hongwen								Comparative Effects of Sand- and Grass-Based Repeated-Sprint Training on Aerobic and Anaerobic Performance in Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	2			327	338		10.52082/jssm.2026.327			JUN 2026	2026	This randomized controlled trial examined whether repeated-sprint training (RST) performed on sand or grass induces different adaptations in collegiate soccer players. Forty-two male players were randomly assigned to a sand-RST group (SAND, n = 14), a grass-RST group (GRASS, n = 14), or a control group (CON, n = 14). SAND and GRASS performed repeated-sprint training during two scheduled training sessions per week for six weeks, whereas CON completed standard technical soccer training of equivalent duration during the same two weekly sessions. All groups continued the same regular team training program, with the intervention delivered within two scheduled weekly sessions. Before and after the intervention, participants completed vertical jump tests including squat jump and countermovement jump, a running based anaerobic sprint test with peak, mean, and minimum power and fatigue index, and a graded treadmill test providing VO2max, anaerobic threshold, and running economy. Baseline-adjusted analyses were conducted to examine between-group differences (ANCOVA for outcomes meeting model assumptions; mixed-design ANOVA when assumptions were violated). These analyses showed significant Group by Time interactions for all jump and running based sprint variables and for VO2max and anaerobic threshold (p < 0.01), whereas the interaction for running economy was not significant (p = 0.15). Compared with GRASS, SAND showed greater improvements in squat jump (p < 0.01), mean power (p = 0.03), minimum power (p < 0.01), and fatigue index (p < 0.01). Aerobic adaptations were comparable between sand and grass, and no clear surface specific advantage was observed for running economy. In conclusion, implementing RST within scheduled team sessions improved jump performance, repeated-sprint performance indices, and aerobic fitness in collegiate soccer players, while sand-based training may provide greater benefits for squat jump and selected outcomes related to repeated-sprint fatigue resistance.		[Van, Hao; Wang, Tingting; Wei, Hongwen] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Strength & Conditioning Training, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhai, Haiting] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Sports Coaching, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhai, Haiting] Naval Aviat Univ, Sch Basic Sci Aviat, Yantai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Duchun] Chinese Table Tennis Assoc, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wei, Hongwen] Beijing Sport Univ, Key Lab Performance Training & Recovery Gen Adm Sp, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wei, Hongwen] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Strength & Conditioning Training, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wei, Hongwen] Beijing Sport Univ, Key Lab Performance Training & Recovery Gen Adm Sp, Beijing, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690056600001	81	Article; Article		
J	Riesbeck, Max; Lopponen, Antti; Deboutte, Jolien; Delecluse, Christophe; Palmberg, Lotta; Van Roie, Evelien								Can Changes in Sit-To-Stand Performance Throughout A 30-S Time Interval Be Used as A Marker of Performance Fatigability in Middle-Aged To Older Adults?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	2			529	535		10.52082/jssm.2026.529			JUN 2026	2026	Performance fatigability during the 30-s sit-to-stand (STS) test is not well characterized despite its potential to detect early functional decline. Therefore, this study aimed to quantify temporal changes in power, trunk flexion and movement subphase durations during the 30sSTS, and to examine differences by age and sex. 93 middle-aged adults (50 males and 43 females; mean age 60.5 +/- 3.0 years) and 102 older adults (48 males and 54 females; mean age 71.5 +/- 5.0 years) performed a 30sSTS. Inertial measurement units (IMUs) mounted over the L4/L5 vertebral level were used to capture sit-to-stand power, trunk flexion and sub-phase durations in the first and last 10 s. Linear mixed-effects models evaluated temporal changes and group effects. Mean power declined (-11.9 W, d =-0.66), trunk flexion increased (+1.35 degrees, d = 0.42), sit-to-stand duration lengthened and stand-to-sit duration decreased throughout the test (all p < 0.001). The within-test decrease in stand-to-sit duration was less pronounced in older compared to middle-aged adults (d = 0.42, p = .039). Older adults generated less power and spent more time in all sub-phases (p < 0.05). Females produced less power and greater trunk flexion (p < 0.001). The 30sSTS captures modest performance fatigability; but longer protocols may better reveal clinically meaningful decline. Future research should investigate mobility-limited individuals or examine associations with functional outcomes (frailty, mobility, balance) to provide additional insight.		[Riesbeck, Max; Deboutte, Jolien; Van Roie, Evelien] Univ Hasselt, Fac Rehabil Sci, REVAL Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Lopponen, Antti; Palmberg, Lotta] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Gerontol Res Ctr, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Deboutte, Jolien; Delecluse, Christophe; Van Roie, Evelien] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci Phys Act Sports, Leuven, Belgium; [Palmberg, Lotta] Univ Turku, Turku, Finland; [Palmberg, Lotta] Turku Univ Hosp, Dept Publ Hlth, Turku, Finland; [Palmberg, Lotta] Turku Univ Hosp, Ctr Populat Hlth Res, Turku, Finland; [Van Roie, Evelien] Univ Hasselt, Fac Rehabil Sci, REVAL Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001788362400001	21	Article; Article		
J	Li, Lu; Han, Xinjie; Chen, Jiawei; Wen, Qingpan; Costa, Gustavo De Conti Teixeira; Trybulski, Robert; Clemente, Filipe Manuel								Comparative Effects Of 1V1 Vs 3V3 Small-Sided Basketball Training On Body Anthropometric-Related Outcomes And Physical Fitness In Sedentary Female College Students: An 8-Week Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	2			514	528		10.52082/jssm.2026.514			JUN 2026	2026	Objective: This randomized controlled trial compared the effects of 1v1 and 3v3 basketball small-sided games (SSGs) on body anthropometric-related outcomes and physical fitness in sedentary female college students. Methods: Sixty-three sedentary female university students aged 18-21 years were randomized to 1v1 SSGs (n = 21), 3v3 SSGs (n = 21), or a non-training control group (n = 21) for 8 weeks. Training was performed three times per week, with each 60-min session including 40 min of SSG play. Outcomes were assessed at baseline, week 4, and week 8. All randomized participants completed the scheduled assessments, with no missing outcome cases. Adherence was 94.5% in the 1v1 group and 92.8% in the 3v3 group. The primary outcome was 20-m multistage fitness test distance. Secondary outcomes included body mass, body mass index, waist circumference, hip circumference, waist-to-hip ratio, the sum of skinfold thicknesses, handgrip strength, vertical jump height, and standing long jump distance. Linear mixed-effects models including group, time, and group & times; time were used to estimate longitudinal intervention effects. Results: The primary outcome improved more in both intervention groups than in the control group. The 20-m multistage fitness test distance increased by 29.1% in the 1v1 group and 35.3% in the 3v3 group, compared with 1.1% in the control group; the model-estimated differences in baseline-to-week 8 change versus control were 120.95 m for 1v1 and 151.43 m for 3v3, with both Holm-adjusted p values < 0.001. Body mass decreased by 6.8% in the 1v1 group and 8.2% in the 3v3 group, compared with 0.8% in the control group. The corresponding differences in baseline-to-week 8 change versus control were-3.45 kg for 1v1 and-4.18 kg for 3v3, both with Holm-adjusted p values < 0.001. The sum of skin-fold thicknesses decreased by 10.6% in the 1v1 group and 12.2% in the 3v3 group, compared with 0.4% in the control group (p values < 0.001). Secondary fitness outcomes also improved more in the intervention groups than in the control group, including handgrip strength, vertical jump height, and standing long jump distance. The 3v3 format showed larger exploratory gains than 1v1 in vertical jump height and standing long jump distance, whereas direct between-format differences for multistage fitness test distance and handgrip strength were not statistically significant. Conclusions: Eight weeks of recreational basketball SSGs improved cardiorespiratory fitness, several adiposity-related indicators, and neuromuscular fitness in sedentary female college students. These findings support basketball SSGs as a reasonable university-based exercise strategy, although between-format comparisons should be interpreted cautiously because they were exploratory. Future studies should test these formats in larger multicenter samples, include longer-term follow-up, and incorporate dietary/free-living activity monitoring and direct training-load measures to clarify sustainability, mechanisms, and format-specific effects.		[Li, Lu; Han, Xinjie; Wen, Qingpan; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland; [Chen, Jiawei] Hunan Mech & Elect Vocat Tech Coll, Changsha, Hunan, Peoples R China; [Costa, Gustavo De Conti Teixeira] Univ Fed Goias, Phys Educ Dept, Goiania, GO, Brazil; [Trybulski, Robert] Katowice Business Univ, Fac Med, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Polytech Univ Coimbra, Appl Res Inst i2A, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Polytech Univ Coimbra, Appl Res Inst i2A, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Coimbra, Portugal								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001788288900001	42	Article; Article		
J	Babbitt, Don; Kipp, Kristof								A practical method to integrate kinematic data with coaching observations in the discus throw								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261455251				2026	The purpose of this study was to demonstrate how combining biomechanical data with coaching observations can be used to bridge the gap between researchers and practitioners and build toward a better, shared understanding of competitive discus throw performance. Competition throws for a male discus thrower were recorded and analyzed during a World Athletics Bronze-level Continental Tour competition. The series of throws included a new world record and stands as the furthest-ever series of six throws in a competition. Synchronized digital videos from eight cameras were recorded for all throws. Videos were processed with markerless motion capture software and a rigid-link model was used to calculate relevant biomechanical variables. A qualitative analysis of a semi-structured interview with one of the thrower's coaches was carried out to ascertain coaching insights and technical observations on each throw. Notably, the world record throw exhibited a longer entry duration (+0.017 s; 5.2%) than the opening throw and longer delivery-phase orbital path (+0.18-0.31 m) relative to non-world record throws. Eight coaching observations were identified and matched with specific biomechanical data (e.g., phase-specific durations and discus velocities). Investigation of these "matches" across the series of throws, and in the context of the world record throw, confirmed that they were relevant to throwing performance. This cue to metric mapping offers a template for competition-based monitoring and rapid technical feedback.		[Babbitt, Don] Univ Georgia, Athlet Assoc, Athens, GA USA; [Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Milwaukee, WI USA; [Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, 604 N 16st St,Cramer Hall 215D, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001781318200001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Pichardo, Andrew W.; Sommerfield, Lesley M.								Growing a Grassroots Youth Athletic Development Program: Examples From the Field								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	3			281	286		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000981			JUN 2026	2026	Long-term athletic development involves the lifelong pursuit of physical health and fitness and can be facilitated with a grassroots approach. Recent research has highlighted the benefits of athletic development programs, and guidelines for exercises, volume, intensity, and pedagogical considerations. However, there is less literature available describing the process of starting a program or highlighting important factors to consider. Therefore, the aim of this article was to provide insight into the logistical considerations needed to start a youth athletic development program within a community, key reflections and learnings from several examples, and practical applications to enhance the physical development of youth in a fun, safe environment.		[Pichardo, Andrew W.; Sommerfield, Lesley M.] IMG Acad, Athlet & Personal Dev, Bradenton, FL 34210 USA; [Pichardo, Andrew W.] IMG Acad, Athlet & Personal Dev, Bradenton, FL 34210 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001782515100010	29	Article; Article		
J	Faigenbaum, Avery D.; Howard, Rick; Rial Rebullido, Tamara; Villa-Gonzalez, Emilio								Reframing LTAD as LTActD: Long-Term Activity Development								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	3			255	263		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000951			JUN 2026	2026	Long-Term Athletic Development (LTAD) models have provided a youth sport framework for more than 2 decades, aimed at improving skill progression, training outcomes, and athlete preparation. Although influential, traditional LTAD approaches are limited by their sport-centric orientation, linear design, and focus on elite performance, leaving them less relevant for most youth and adults who do not pursue competitive sport. In response, we propose reframing LTAD as Long-Term Activity Development (LTActD), an accessible and flexible model designed to promote lifelong engagement in physical activity, including recreation, exercise, and sport. LTActD emphasizes 5 dynamic phases-Explore, Develop, Apply, Sustain, and Thrive-that accommodate diverse pathways, periods of inactivity, and opportunities to re-enter active living at any age. Represented as a curvy road, the new model underscores that participation in physical activity is rarely linear, more like a winding journey shaped by health, motivation, environment, and social context. LTActD bridges sport science and public health, positioning physical activity as a lifelong resource for health, independence, and fulfillment. LTActD offers a practical framework to empower individuals of all ages and abilities to discover meaningful ways to move, re-engage, and embrace active living throughout the life course.		[Faigenbaum, Avery D.] Coll New Jersey, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Ewing, NJ 08618 USA; [Howard, Rick] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA USA; [Rial Rebullido, Tamara] Monmouth Univ, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, West Long Branch, NJ USA; [Villa-Gonzalez, Emilio] Univ Granada, Univ Res Inst iMUDS, Fac Sport Sci Sport & Hlth, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Faigenbaum, Avery D.] Coll New Jersey, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Ewing, NJ 08618 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001782515100012	90	Article; Article		
J	Weaver, Adam P.; Baez, Shelby E.; Rodu, Jordan Scott; Kuenze, Christopher								Examining longitudinal changes in physical activity from 6 to 9 months after adolescent ACL reconstruction using the ACL Reasons survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101939	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101939			JUL 2026	2026	Objectives The ACL Reasons is validated to characterize barriers to physical activity (PA) after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Understanding how perceptions of PA change after ACLR can improve patient-centered care. Design Cross-Sectional. Setting Academic sports medicine centers. Participants 125 adolescent patients after primary ACLR (15.9 +/- 1.7years; 45.6% female). Main outcome measures Participants completed the ACL Reasons at 6.4 +/- 0.6 months and 9.5 +/- 0.9 months post-ACLR. Individuals were categorized as 'as active', 'more challenging', and 'less active' at both time points. Activity groups were compared based on demographics and patient-reported outcome measures using one-way ANOVA and change in activity status was characterized using the Stuart-Maxwell test. Results 24.8% of participants were 'as active' as prior to injury 6 months after ACLR and 51.2% of participants were 'as active' as prior to injury at 9 months after ACLR. When grouped by activity level, there were no differences by age or sex. The pattern of change of activity level differed based on activity group at the 6 month assessment (p < .001). Conclusions Patient-reported PA categories improve from 6-to-9 months, but 50% of patients remain less active or find activity more challenging at 9 months. Age and sex did not impact perceptions of PA.		[Weaver, Adam P.] Connecticut Childrens, Dept Sports Phys Therapy, Farmington, CT USA; [Weaver, Adam P.] Connecticut Childrens, Dept Orthoped, Farmington, CT USA; [Baez, Shelby E.] Univ North Carolina, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Rodu, Jordan Scott] Univ Virginia, Dept Stat, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Kuenze, Christopher] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Weaver, Adam P.] Connecticut Childrens, 399 Farmington Ave, Farmington, CT 06030 USA; [Weaver, Adam P.] Connecticut Childrens, 399 Farmington Ave, Farmington, CT 06030 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001788211100001	42	Article; Article		
J	Kipp, Kristof; Patterson, Emma; Sihanath, Wanda; Geiser, Christopher								Performance in elite discus throwing is governed by phase-specific timing and velocity transfer								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2681954				2026	This study examined the associations between phase-specific kinematic variables and discus throw performance in elite throwers. Video recordings of 23 male (63.39 +/- 4.19 m) and 16 female (59.74 +/- 7.25 m) discus throwers were analysed to obtain kinematic variables describing phase durations, centre-of-mass (COM) velocities, discus paths and velocities, torso and hip-shoulder-arm positions, and pelvis and torso rotational velocities. Linear mixed models were used to identify phase-specific kinematic variables associated with throwing distance while accounting for repeated trials within athletes. Phase-specific kinematic variables positively associated with throwing distance were 1) a longer entry phase paired with shorter transition and delivery phases, 2) faster horizontal COM velocity during the flight phase, 3) peak horizontal discus velocity during the delivery, and 4) slower pelvis rotational velocity during the transition and faster torso rotational velocity during the delivery. Measures of torso lean and hip-shoulder-arm separation angles were not associated with throwing performance. These findings indicate that elite discus throw performance is governed more by phase-specific timing as well as control and regulation of linear and rotational velocities than by isolated postural characteristics. Further, effective technique appears to reflect the ability to establish favourable mechanical conditions early and express them efficiently during the delivery phase.		[Kipp, Kristof; Patterson, Emma; Sihanath, Wanda; Geiser, Christopher] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001782009900001	21	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Trybulski, Robert; Kuzdzal, Adrian; Olaniszyn, Gracjan; Silva, Ana Filipa; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Hsing-Kuo, Wang								Acute Impact of Cold Compression Therapy Across Diverse Age Groups and Physical Conditioning Status: A Randomized Crossover Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	2			350	370		10.52082/jssm.2026.350			JUN 2026	2026	To test whether a pneumatic cold-compression system (CC) improves recovery of maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) at 48 h (T4) versus Sham after a standardized hamstring fatigue protocol. Secondary aims were to compare muscle stiffness, microvascular perfusion, pressure pain threshold (PPT), blood lactate, perceived recovery (TQR), and harms across subgroups. This multicenter, randomized, participant-and assessor-blinded, sham-controlled, two-period crossover trial enrolled 80 participants. After fatigue testing, participants received CC (3 degrees C, 75 mmHg, 10 min twice daily for 3 days) or Sham (15 degrees C, 15 mmHg). Outcomes were assessed at baseline (T0), post-fatigue (T1), immediately postfirst intervention (T2), 24 h (T3), and 48 h (T4). Continuous outcomes were analyzed using mixed-way ANOVA with Population as the between-subject factor and Condition and Time as withinsubject factors, followed by Bonferroni-adjusted pairwise comparisons. Paired Cohen's dz was reported for key within-participant contrasts. TQR was analyzed using rank-based factorial ANOVA, and Borg CR10 scores using ordinal logistic regression. Across populations, MVC was higher under CC than Sham from T2 to T4, with the largest between-condition difference at T4 (all p < .001). Muscle stiffness was lower under CC from T2 to T4 (all p < .001). Microvascular perfusion and pressure pain threshold were higher under CC at T2-T4 overall (all p < .001), with earlier between-condition differences in MMA athletes and young adults and delayed differences in older adults. Blood lactate was lower under CC only immediately after the first intervention session (T2; p < .001). TQR was higher under CC at T2-T4 in MMA athletes, at T2-T3 in older adults, and at T3 only in young adults. No adverse events were reported. CC accelerated recovery after hamstring fatigue, improving strength, stiffness, perfusion, pain thresholds, lactate, and perceived recovery across populations, with earlier benefits in athletes and young adults and delayed but comparable improvements in older adults.		[Trybulski, Robert; Olaniszyn, Gracjan] Katowice Business Univ, Fac Med, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Kuzdzal, Adrian] Univ Rzeszow, Inst Physiotherapy, Fac Hlth Sci & Psychol, Coll Med, Rzeszow, Poland; [Olaniszyn, Gracjan] Olaniszyn Physiotherapy Ctr, Raciborz, Poland; [Silva, Ana Filipa] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Polytech Univ Coimbra, Appl Res Inst i2A, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland; [Hsing-Kuo, Wang] Natl Taiwan Univ, Sch & Grad Inst Phys Therapy, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hsing-Kuo, Wang] Natl Taiwan Univ Hosp, Ctr Phys Therapy, Taipei, Taiwan; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001738161700001	51	Article; Article		
J	Mo, Yong; Gao, Yuhua; Huang, Ruiyin; Yang, Ke; Lu, Yongren; Gao, Zhan								Long-Term Effects of NASM-OPT Periodized Training on Lower-Limb Strength, Explosive Power, and Stretch-Shortening Cycle Function in Adolescent Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	2			339	349		10.52082/jssm.2026.339			JUN 2026	2026	Strength training plays an essential role in improving performance and lowering injury incidence among adolescent athletes. However, current training practices often involve premature specialization, insufficient load management, and adult-oriented programming. The periodized National Academy of Sports Medicine's Optimum Performance Training (NASM-OPT) model develops stability, strength, and lower-limb power in a progressive manner, but its long-term effects in adolescents remain unclear. This randomized controlled trial compared NASM-OPT with traditional periodized training to examine the effects on maximal lower-limb strength and explosive power among 42 adolescent athletes randomly allocated to the OPT and CON groups (n = 21 per group). A 26-week intervention was completed in both groups. Squat one-repetition maximum (1RM), countermovement jump (CMJ), squat jump (SJ), pre-stretch augmentation percentage (PSAP), and eccentric utilization ratio (EUR) were assessed at baseline and post-intervention. Repeated-measures ANOVA was used to analyze group & times;time interactions (alpha = 0.05). Compared with the CON group, the OPT group demonstrated greater post-intervention values in 1RM (133.1 +/- 21.4 vs 119.2 +/- 18.0 kg), CMJ (47.4 +/- 5.8 vs 39.8 +/- 4.0 cm), PSAP (10.63% vs 6.07%), and EUR (1.11 vs 1.06) post-intervention (p < 0.05). The OPT group maintained these improvements throughout the intervention, whereas the CON group showed plateaued values, potentially suggesting enhanced stretch-shortening cycle(SSC) function. Periodized NASM-OPT training efficiently promotes lower-limb strength, explosive power, and SSC function in adolescent athletes. These findings indicate that systematic and progressive programming can optimize performance while minimizing injury risk.		[Mo, Yong; Gao, Yuhua; Huang, Ruiyin] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Lu, Yongren] Guangdong Prov Sports Bur, Youth Competit Sports Sch, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Gao, Zhan] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yang, Ke] Purple Tea Middle Sch, Jiangmen, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Mo, Yong] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001708768800001	46	Article; Article		
J	Diewald, Shelley N.; Mancini, Nick; Noth, Niklas; Neville, Jonathon; Cronin, John B.; Cross, Matt R.								Skateboarding's Olympic debut: A comparative analysis describing the men's and women's street competition								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1827	1838		10.1177/17479541261420351			JUN 2026	2026	The aim of this study was to describe aspects of performance in the Tokyo 2020 Olympic street skateboarding competition and compare the men's (M) and women's (W) divisions. Trick attempts (TA = 1118) were extracted from broadcast footage of the semi-finals and finals using notational analysis. Descriptive analyses were adopted to characterise performance, with robust linear mixed-effects models comparing attempt scores (run [RUN] and best-trick [BT]) between divisions. Men's RUN (beta = 1.71 [1.43, 1.99]) and BT (beta = 1.85 [1.55, 2.15]) scores were higher and more variable than the women. Overall, there was more trick variety during BTs, but less obstacle variability compared to RUNs. Skaters bailed a greater proportion of BT TAs (54.6%) than RUN TAs (14.3%). Men demonstrated greater variety than women by diversifying take-off (M = 28.2% vs. W = 3.3% non-regular) and landing (M = 25.7% vs. W = 6.2% non-regular) stances, attempting more unique tricks (M = 122 vs. W = 74), and using larger feature obstacles (M = 40.7% vs. W = 33.9% of TAs). Alternatively, women demonstrated wider course use during BTs (M = 15% vs. W = 32.1% of all obstacles), corresponding to less feature obstacle use; perhaps indicating a barrier to engagement due to developing physical qualities. Future research should explore men's and women's divisions respectively to understand key factors for success.		[Diewald, Shelley N.; Neville, Jonathon; Cronin, John B.; Cross, Matt R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ AUT, Auckland, New Zealand; [Mancini, Nick] Skatesense, Leucadia, CA USA; [Noth, Niklas] Inst Appl Training Sci, Leipzig, Germany; [Cronin, John B.] Athlete Training & Hlth, Houston, TX USA; [Diewald, Shelley N.] 17 Antares Pl,Rosedale, Auckland 0630, New Zealand								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001695826000001	27	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, David; Eisenmann, Joey; Lawson, Rebecca; Stables, Reuben; Williams, Sean; Cumming, Sean; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								"My Kid Is Going Through a Growth Spurt-What Should I Do?" Taking an Interdisciplinary Approach to Athletic Development During the Adolescent Growth Spurt								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	3			355	371		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000920			JUN 2026	2026	Puberty is a critical period for young athletes, characterized by significant physical, psychological, and social changes. During puberty, young athletes experience the adolescent growth spurt at the same time as intensified training regimens, which can affect performance, injury risk, and overall health. Systematic training can improve physiological and performance outcomes, but the increased training volume and changes to the body during adolescence can also heighten the risk of injuries. This article discusses the injury risks associated with adolescent growth and provides comprehensive recommendations to mitigate these risks. Key recommendations include limiting training hours to the athlete's age, monitoring growth and maturation to adjust training loads and content, and incorporating and modifying consistent strength and conditioning prescriptions. In addition, optimal nutrition, sleep, and interdisciplinary planning among coaches, parents, and stakeholders should be emphasized to support young athletes' holistic development and well-being during the adolescent growth spurt.		[Johnson, David; Lawson, Rebecca] West Ham United Football Club, Football Sci & Med Dept, London, England; [Johnson, David; Williams, Sean; Cumming, Sean] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Eisenmann, Joey] St Xavier Univ, Exercise Sci, Chicago, IL USA; [Eisenmann, Joey] Leeds Beckett Univ, Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Leeds, England; [Lawson, Rebecca] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Stables, Reuben] Chelsea Football Club, Acad Sports Sci & Med, London, England; [Stables, Reuben] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales; [Johnson, David] West Ham United Football Club, Football Sci & Med Dept, London, England; [Johnson, David] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001782515100004	134	Article; Article		
J	Costello, Ian; Macnamara, Aine; Taylor, Jamie								Developing while performing and performing while developing? A case study of an integrated talent development and high performance sport environment at Munster Rugby								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1650	1662		10.1177/17479541261416773			JUN 2026	2026	The junior-to-senior transition presents persistent difficulty for elite sport, often exacerbated by poor integration between talent development and high-performance environments. This case study evaluated Munster Rugby's integrated model, which merged the academy and senior squad into a single training group. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 16 participants (academy players/coaches, senior players/coaches) and data were analysed using a deductive-inductive thematic content approach grounded in talent development environment frameworks. Five themes were generated to represent how the integrated model influenced the coaching situation: not one track, is this right, right now?, looking ahead, pulling in the same direction, and rubbing shoulders. Our analysis suggested that full-time senior-level training accelerated learning and facilitated earlier selection opportunities. However, these outcomes depended on continuous individual support for younger players and having senior players as role models. Outcomes also varied; while some players adapted, others struggled with the demands associated with preparing a team to win, compromising active experimentation and expansive skill learning. The findings suggest that in Munster's integrated system, the dominant logic of winning had the potential to cannibalize the subordinate logic of development unless systemically accompanied by structured, individualised support and deliberate opportunities for error-based learning. They also underline the need for organisations to manage the inherent tension between short-term results and long-term player development.		[Costello, Ian] Univ Limerick, High Performance Ctr, Munster Rugby, Limerick, Ireland; [Costello, Ian; Macnamara, Aine; Taylor, Jamie] Dublin City Univ, Fac Sci & Hlth, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Macnamara, Aine; Taylor, Jamie] Dublin City Univ, CoEx Lab, Dublin, Ireland; [Taylor, Jamie] Dublin City Univ, CoEx Lab, Dublin, Ireland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001687505400001	70	Article; Article		
J	Mikolajec, Kazimierz; Jarosz, Jakub; Krzysztofik, Michal; Stastny, Petr; Spieszny, Michal								Effects of Different Complex Training Methods on Change of Direction, Sprinting, Jumping, and Isometric Strength in National Level Male Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	2			314	326		10.52082/jssm.2026.314			JUN 2026	2026	Complex training combines high-load resistance exercises with plyometric actions and can be implemented using different exercise sequences. Given that neuromuscular adaptations are specific to the force-velocity characteristics and fatigue conditions under which training stimuli are applied, exercise order may influence the expression of training adaptations. This study compared the effects of ascending (ACT; plyometrics before resistance exercises) and descending (DCT; resistance before plyometrics) complex training methods on athletic performance in national-level male basketball players. Twenty athletes (ACT: n=8; DCT: n=12) completed an 8-week training program performed twice weekly during the off-season. Both protocols included matched training volumes (sets x repetitions x load) and intensities but differed in exercise sequencing: DCT prioritized resistance exercises before plyometrics, while ACT followed the opposite order. Primary outcomes were change of direction (5-10-5, CODAT) and countermovement jumps without and with arm swing (CMJ, CMJ-A; respectively), squat jumps (SJ). Secondary outcomes included drop jumps from 40 and 60 cm (DJ-40, DJ-60), linear sprint times (5 m, 10 m), and force output during isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP). After adjustment for baseline performance, no consistent between-group differences were observed for jumping performance during CMJ, CMJ-A, SJ, or DJ, nor for sprinting or change-of-direction performance (all p >= 0.05). A significant between-group effect favoring DCT was observed only for CMJ-A peak velocity (p = 0.015) and early-phase isometric force production at 100 ms during the IMTP (p = 0.011). These findings indicate that both ACT and DCT can be effectively implemented during the off-season in national-level basketball players. Exercise sequencing appears to act as a fine-tuning variable that may influence specific neuromuscular qualities, rather than producing broad performance advantages across athletic tasks.		[Mikolajec, Kazimierz; Jarosz, Jakub; Krzysztofik, Michal] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Krzysztofik, Michal; Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Spieszny, Michal] Univ Phys Culture Krakow, Inst Sports Sci, Krakow, Poland; [Mikolajec, Kazimierz] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001687003800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Charbonnet, Bryan; Cote, Jean; Michael J, Schmid								From first ski day to Olympic gold: A mixed-methods case study of long-term ski-specific training and fitness development in one of the most successful alpine skiers in history								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1642	1649		10.1177/17479541251410752			JUN 2026	2026	This study examines the long-term training progression of one of the top ten alpine skiers of all time, following his pathway from his first ski day to Olympic gold. Using a longitudinal mixed-method case study, we analyzed 24 years of prospectively recorded on-snow training days, ski-specific participation and performance milestones, and general fitness test results from ages 11 to 18, complemented by a retrospective interview with the athlete's father.The athlete began skiing at the age of 2.2 years old, with early training centered on playful free skiing and task-oriented activities such as unicycling and slacklining. He did not participate in other organized sports. Summer glacier training was deliberately delayed and limited to preserve motivation, and annual ski days peaked between ages 15 and 18. Periods of minor injury and overreaching coincided with high training loads. Although he achieved early success both on and off the snow, he did not fully dominate until adulthood and struggled internationally during puberty, likely due to late maturation and limited deliberate practice.This case demonstrates how a perfect fit between the athlete's characteristics, training, and environment contributed to his success. These findings do not suggest a universal pathway for alpine skiing development, but rather a pattern of training, environment, and social factors that change throughout development to achieve exceptional performance in adulthood.		[Charbonnet, Bryan; Michael J, Schmid] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland; [Cote, Jean] Queens Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Charbonnet, Bryan] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001676906700001	21	Article; Article		
J	Pulido, Juan J.; Roque-Bravo, Manuel; Lobo-Trivino, David; Ayuso-Moreno, Rosa; Rubio-Morales, Ana								Athlete-perceived coaching competency and its role in the basic psychological needs and motivation of youth football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1277	1286		10.1177/17479541251408007			JUN 2026	2026	(1) Objectives; Grounded in self-determination theory, this study aimed to examine the relationship between athlete-perceived coaching competency and youth football players' motivational processes. Specifically, this work analysed how players' perceptions of their coach's competencies (i.e., motivation, game strategy, technical-tactical, and character-building) can be associated with the satisfaction and frustration of their basic psychological needs, and how these relate to different types of motivation. (2) Equipment and methods; A total of 624 male youth football players (aged 12-18), who competed at the same regional competitive level, completed validated questionnaires measuring coaching competency, need satisfaction/frustration, and types of motivation. (3) Results; A structural equation modelling revealed that all four coaching competencies positively predicted need satisfaction, whereas only character-building competency was a negative predictor of need frustration. Furthermore, need satisfaction positively predicted more self-determined motivations (i.e., intrinsic and identified), while need frustration was positively related to less self-determined motivations (i.e., introjected, external, and amotivation). Indirect effects were also found analyses between coaching competencies and athletes' motivation, via need satisfaction and need frustration. These findings highlight the crucial role of coaching competencies in promoting high-quality motivation in youth football through the fulfillment of athletes' psychological needs.		[Pulido, Juan J.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ & Psychol, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Body Express, Avda Elvas S-N, Badajoz 06005, Spain; [Roque-Bravo, Manuel; Lobo-Trivino, David; Ayuso-Moreno, Rosa; Rubio-Morales, Ana] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Body Express, Caceres, Spain; [Pulido, Juan J.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ & Psychol, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Body Express, Avda Elvas S-N, Badajoz 06005, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001661570500001	32	Article; Article		
J	Elstak, Isaiah; Salmon, Paul; McLean, Scott								Naturalistic decision-making of football coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1311	1323		10.1177/17479541251408666			JUN 2026	2026	Effective coach decision-making is important for achieving success in sport, with the decisions made by coaches during matches having a major influence on match outcome. However, to date there has been minimal research investigating the cognitive decision-making processes of coaches during dynamic match play. The current study aimed to investigate the factors that influence the decision-making process of high-level football coaches during dynamic moments in football matches. We applied the critical decision method to assess the decision-making process of 11 high-level football coaches across two football match scenarios 1.a Send off, and 2. Chasing the game. Data was thematically analysed and coded to the perceptual cycle model which is a model of decision-making whereby information available in the world activates decision-maker schemata resulting in an action in a cyclical nature. The results indicate that decision-making processes differ based upon situational constraints. In the Send off scenario, participants relied on mental models and schemata rather than information taken from the match to select a course of action. In contrast, in the Chasing the game scenario, participants tended to use information from the match to assess the situation prior to selecting a course of action. The findings have implications for coach education programs, which are discussed.		[Elstak, Isaiah; Salmon, Paul; McLean, Scott] Univ Sunshine Coast, Ctr Human Factors & Sociotech Syst, Sunshine Coast, Australia; [Elstak, Isaiah] Univ Sunshine Coast, Ctr Human Factors & Sociotech Syst, Sunshine Coast, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001650959700001	61	Article; Article		
J	O'connell, Declan; Taylor, Robin D.								What got me here, won't get me there - how the world's best sports coaches successfully adapt their expertise in different environments								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1299	1310		10.1177/17479541251395888			JUN 2026	2026	In high-performance sport, sustained success increasingly hinges on a coach's ability to adapt across varied, complex, and dynamic environments. This study explores how world-class coaches develop and apply adaptive expertise (AE) across multiple high-performance settings. Framed by a pragmatic philosophy, 14 coaches (with a combined success of 55 Olympic medals and 22 World Championship medals across at least two distinct performance environments) took part in semi-structured interviews. Reflexive thematic analysis revealed four core themes: self-awareness (Know Thyself), contextual agility (Context is the Conductor), relational depth (Build Strong Ropes), and continuous growth (Accelerated Learning). Coaches highlighted the importance of experiential learning, reflective practice, performance safety, and cultural adaptation in developing AE. The findings offer a practical framework for developing AE and underscore its value in navigating the uncertainties and transitions inherent in high-performance sport. Implications for coach education, mentorship, and leadership in dynamic performance environments are discussed.		[O'connell, Declan; Taylor, Robin D.] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [O'connell, Declan] Church Lane, Kinsale P17 ND92, Co Cork, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001629594300001	79	Article; Article		
J	Alp, Aysegul Funda; Karagun, Elif								"I even called him coach at home": A qualitative study on role conflict and coping in parent-coached elite athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1335	1345		10.1177/17479541251393447			JUN 2026	2026	This study explores the dual role of parent-coaches and its impact on elite athletes' professional and emotional experiences, with a particular focus on role conflict. Drawing on a qualitative phenomenological approach, in-depth semi-structured interviews were conducted with 11 elite athletes (Mage = 26.8, SD = 5.28) competing in Taekwondo, Judo, and Karate-all of whom were coached by a parent. Participants were recruited through purposive and snowball sampling strategies. Thematic analysis identified role conflict as a central and multifaceted theme, comprising four subdimensions: (1) Dual Role Conflicts, (2) Athletes' Coping Strategies, (3) Parent-Coaches' Role Conflicts, and (4) Parent-Coaches' Coping Strategies.The findings illustrate that the parent-coach relationship is often described as a complex and paradoxical dynamic, creating tension between emotional intimacy and professional expectations. Across participants' accounts, success as a filial duty emerged as the central organizing concept, shaping how athletes interpreted their struggles and coping mechanisms. Athletes reported struggles with blurred boundaries, feelings of entrapment, and a perceived obligation to achieve as a form of filial duty. According to athletes, parent-coaches experienced internal conflicts and fairness-related concerns, often managing these tensions through compensatory behaviours. Despite these tensions, both athletes and parent-coaches developed various strategies to manage conflicting roles. This study contributes to a nuanced understanding of the psychological and relational complexities of dual-role dynamics in elite individual sports.		[Alp, Aysegul Funda; Karagun, Elif] Kocaeli Univ, Sport Sci, Izmit, Turkiye; [Alp, Aysegul Funda] Kocaeli Univ, Sport Sci, Izmit, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001610242600001	33	Article; Article		
J	Arede, Jorge; Zhou, Rui; Shang, Ximing; Leite, Nuno; Schoellhorn, Wolfgang								The prevalence and severity of injuries in a youth basketball academy with a differential learning-based strength and conditioning program: Two-season prospective observational cohort study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1537	1547		10.1177/17479541251376149			JUN 2026	2026	This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of a DL-based strength and conditioning programme in reducing the incidence and severity of injuries among adolescent basketball players and to explore its underlying mechanisms. This prospective observational cohort design involved 64 adolescent basketball players (43 males, 21 females; aged 11-17 years), who were monitored over two consecutive competitive seasons (a total of 20 months). Injury data were collected using a customised questionnaire, including type, location, severity, and occurrence. Participants were divided into two groups based on training frequency: once and twice-weekly training groups. Fifty-six injury incidents were recorded over the two seasons. Lower extremity injuries accounted for 78.6% of all cases, with ankle sprains being the most common (41.1%), followed by knee injuries (21.4%). Acute injuries constituted 89.3% of all cases, with 58.0% resulting from direct contact. The ratio of injuries per athlete decreased from 0.53 injuries per athlete in the first season to 0.34 injuries per athlete in the second season. No statistically significant differences were found between the training groups regarding the number or severity of injuries. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis also showed no significant differences in survival probability between groups, despite a slightly higher restricted mean survival in the twice-weekly training group. This decline suggests that the DL-based training programme may have helped reduce injury risk among adolescent basketball players, enhancing neuromuscular control and motor adaptability. Future research should further investigate the long-term effects of DL and its broader application across different sports and populations.		[Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Sch Educ, Viseu, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge; Shang, Ximing; Leite, Nuno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Exercise & Hlth Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge; Shang, Ximing; Leite, Nuno] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Zhou, Rui] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Schoellhorn, Wolfgang] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sport Sci Training & Movement Sci, Mainz, Germany; [Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Sch Educ, Viseu, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Exercise & Hlth Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001570283800001	64	Article; Article		
J	Xia, Yang; Pyun, Do Young; Tak, Minhyeok								The perception of talent development environment in football: Scale development and psychometric testing								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1479	1492		10.1177/17479541251373001			JUN 2026	2026	Talent development environment (TDE) has been a key focus in sport as sport talents need proper development to transfer their potential to elite performance. The environment is increasingly recognised as a controllable factor in talent development. While several scales have been developed to measure TDE for general sport contexts, relatively few have been specifically designed for particular sport (e.g., football). This study developed a scale for measuring TDE in football and validated its psychometric properties. The participants (N = 551) were football talents (aged between 11 and 17 years) who were recruited from Chinese football specialised schools participating in the Chinese national youth football league. The participants included 377 males and 167 females, with seven participants not specifying their gender. Three phases were adopted: (a) item generation using a deductive approach based on a literature review and subsequent questionnaire design; (b) exploratory factor analysis (EFA; n = 270); and (c) confirmatory factor analysis (CFA; n = 200). Consequently, a six-dimensional scale was proposed (football coach, interaction with teammates, football training, football competition, academic support and family support) with 30 items. The results indicate that the scale has a sound overall model fit (chi 2/df = 1.84, CFI = 0.93, IFI = 0.93, TLI = 0.92, RMSEA = 0.07, and SRMR = 0.06), as well as convergent (AVEs ranging from 0.51 to 0.75) and discriminant validity (no inter-dimensional correlations exceeding their respective squared root of AVEs). In the future, it is recommended that the scale be further validated and optimised using samples from different regions with different socio-cultural backgrounds.		[Xia, Yang; Pyun, Do Young; Tak, Minhyeok] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England; [Xia, Yang] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001572526800001	65	Article; Article		
J	Cairns, Joshua T.; Kolstad, Ash T.; Galarneau, Jean-Michel; van den Berg, Carla A.; Jordan, Matthew J.; Schneider, Kathryn J.; Pasanen, Kati; Emery, Carolyn A.								Down, set, record: Assessing warm-up structure and use of neuromuscular training exercises in Canadian adolescent tackle football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1526	1536		10.1177/17479541251373073			JUN 2026	2026	Implementing injury prevention strategies is critical for coaches and sport organizations to promote player safety. Neuromuscular training (NMT) warm-up programs that involve aerobic, strength, agility, balance/coordination, and head-and-neck control exercises have demonstrated injury rate reductions of >35% across many adolescent sports. Tackle football (i.e., American football) has amongst the highest injury rates within youth sport and lacks examination of current warm-up structure and exercises. Our video-analysis study examined footage from 23 practice and game warm-ups (46 total) to document the duration and exercises completed for nine adolescent (males, ages 14-17) tackle football teams over a 9-week season within Calgary (Canada). We found that teams typically spent less than five minutes actively warming-up with most exercises being aerobic (51%) and dynamic stretching (29%), while <10% of exercises involved static stretching (6%) or NMT components of strength (9%), agility (3%), balance/coordination (1%), and head-and-neck control (1%). Warm-up length and use of NMT components were similar between games and practices, and over the season. Our findings demonstrate that NMT exercises are not being used in tackle football, which supports future implementation and evaluation of a tackle football-specific NMT program. We also provide coaches with a method for examining their team's warm-up structure.		[Cairns, Joshua T.; Kolstad, Ash T.; Galarneau, Jean-Michel; van den Berg, Carla A.; Jordan, Matthew J.; Schneider, Kathryn J.; Pasanen, Kati; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kolstad, Ash T.; Galarneau, Jean-Michel; Schneider, Kathryn J.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Integrated Concuss Res Program, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kolstad, Ash T.; Galarneau, Jean-Michel; Schneider, Kathryn J.; Pasanen, Kati; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp, Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kolstad, Ash T.; Galarneau, Jean-Michel; Schneider, Kathryn J.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Hotchkiss Brain Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Jordan, Matthew J.; Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Integrat Neuromuscular Sport Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Pasanen, Kati; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, McCaig Inst Bone & Joint Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, OBrien Inst Publ Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Pediat, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Community Hlth Sci, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kolstad, Ash T.] Univ Calgary, 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001569032300001	31	Article; Article		
J	Carvalho, Igor; Carpinelli, Eduardo; Melo, Saulo; Haiachi, Marcelo; Santos, Simone; Guimaraes, Carla								The association between gaze behavior and parabadminton serves accuracy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1593	1601		10.1177/17479541251374289			JUN 2026	2026	This study aims to determine the relationship between gaze behavior and serve accuracy in parabadminton athletes under training conditions. Fifteen parabadminton athletes ranked among the top ten in the world participated in the study, including 9 females (33 +/- 11,96 years); and 6 males (27,16 +/- 9,51 years). The athletes performed 20 consecutive serves on each side of the court, for a total of 40 executions. Gaze behavior data was collected using the Tobii Glasses 2 eye tracking system. A linear mixed-effects model was used to assess the correlation between serve accuracy and gaze behavior The results showed no significant association between serve accuracy and the number of fixations or fixation duration. However, a trend toward greater success was identified in the SL4 class when the athlete fixated on the shuttlecock, and in the WH2 class when the athlete fixated on the net. Considering the technical specifications of the equipment used to study gaze tracking, investigating this variable in badminton is feasible and acceptable for professionals in the sport.		[Carvalho, Igor] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Lab Biomech & Motor Behav, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Carvalho, Igor; Carpinelli, Eduardo; Guimaraes, Carla] Natl Inst Technol, Assist Technol & Inclus Lab, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Melo, Saulo] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil; [Haiachi, Marcelo] Univ Fed Sergipe, Res Grp Olymp & Paralymp Studies, Aracaju Campus, Aracaju, SE, Brazil; [Santos, Simone] Badminton Rio de Janeiro State Federat, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Carvalho, Igor] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Lab Biomech & Motor Behav, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Carvalho, Igor] Natl Inst Technol, Assist Technol & Inclus Lab, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001567475700001	44	Article; Article		
J	Masismadi, Nur Adilah; Wylde, Matthew; Huynh, Minh; Gastin, Paul B.; Chia, Esther; Suppiah, Haresh T.								Utilising competition participation history at youth age to forecast dropout risk and sporting success likelihoods in competitive swimming								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1581	1592		10.1177/17479541251372398			JUN 2026	2026	This study investigates how competition participation during youth relates to dropout risk in competitive swimming, while also examining whether participation variables can predict key sporting success outcomes such as: (a) effective career length; (b) competitive activity between ages 20 and 26; (c) number of World Championships and Olympic Games appearances; and (d) highest status achieved at those meets (medallist, non-medallist or non-participant). Using data from 2154 swimmers (F = 1197; M = 957) obtained from the World Aquatics database spanning 1980 to 2019, athletes aged 13 to 32 years were analysed. Dropout was defined as a consecutive four-year period without competition results following debut. A Cox proportional hazards model assessed the influence of debut age, medal success, race volume and engagement in multiple disciplines between ages 13-18 on dropout risk. Median time to dropout was 6 years for men and 5 years for women. Women were 1.47 times as likely as men to drop out. Athletes from Asia were more likely to drop out than athletes from Europe, Oceania and South America. Older debut age, youth medal success, higher total races with lower annual average, and greater discipline diversity were associated with lower dropout risk. For predicting sporting success outcomes, Random Forest and XGBoost machine learning models trained on a standardised set of predictors demonstrated predictive ability above chance, though their performance suggested that incorporating additional variables could enhance accuracy. Overall, findings support encouraging multi-discipline engagement and managing competition load during youth to reduce dropout risk.		[Masismadi, Nur Adilah; Wylde, Matthew; Huynh, Minh; Gastin, Paul B.; Suppiah, Haresh T.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Masismadi, Nur Adilah; Chia, Esther] High Performance Sport Inst, Singapore, Singapore; [Huynh, Minh] Monash Univ, Dept Econometr & Business Stat, Melbourne, Australia; [Masismadi, Nur Adilah] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Masismadi, Nur Adilah] High Performance Sport Inst, Singapore, Singapore								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001567478000001	63	Article; Article		
J	Allen, T.; Taberner, M.; Zhilkin, M.; Alexander, J.; Harper, D.; Rhodes, D.								Is it as simple as run more, win more? Influence of running load on match outcome and final league position across nine consecutive English Premier League football seasons								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1504	1512		10.1177/17479541251371004			JUN 2026	2026	Purpose: This study aimed to assess the relationship between running load trends, between teams in a match, match outcomes, and final league positions in the English Premier League (EPL) from 2015/16 to 2023/24 using semi-automated optical tracking systems. Methods: Data from 3379 games across nine seasons were analysed for total distance (TD), high-intensity distance (HID), high-speed running (HSR), and sprint distance (SprD). Matches were tracked using TRACAB (R) and Second Spectrum (R). Spearman's rank correlation coefficient identified correlations between running load and league position. Pearson's correlation was used for home and opposition running load correlations. One-way ANOVA and Cohen's effect size (ES) measured differences in running load between won, drawn, and lost matches. Results: Small-to-moderate, significant correlations were found between HID (p < 0.001; r(s) = 0.28), HSR (p = 0.007; r(s) = 0.20), SprD (p < 0.001; r(s) = 0.32), and final league position. Large to very large correlations between home and away teams were observed for TD, HID, HSR and SprD (p < 0.001; r = 0.68-0.75). Teams covered more distance (TD, HID, SprD) when they won compared to when they drew or lost (ES:-0.10 to -0.23). Winning teams significantly ran more than losing teams within the same match (TD, HID and SprD; p < 0.001; ES = 0.12-0.29). Conclusion: Running load has a small-to-moderate correlation to match outcomes and league standing in the EPL. Winning teams tend to run more (TD, HID and SprD), albeit with trivial to small effect sizes, suggesting running outputs are a determining factor in team success.		[Allen, T.; Zhilkin, M.] Arsenal Football Club, Arsenal Performance & Res Team, London, England; [Allen, T.; Alexander, J.; Harper, D.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Football Performance Hub, Preston, England; [Taberner, M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Rhodes, D.] Burnley Football Club, Human Performance Dept, Burnley, England; [Allen, T.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Football Performance Hub, Preston, England								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001565133400001	47	Article; Article		
J	Mourao, Paulo Reis; Gomes, Magno Rogerio								The hidden discrimination in sports immigration - the salary differentiation among goalkeepers in soccer leagues								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1439	1452		10.1177/17479541251370484			JUN 2026	2026	The immigration of professional athletes hides several realities of discrimination. Often, the high salaries associated with these athletes help hide many discriminatory practices that still occur even at the highest competitive level. We looked at the reality of professional goalkeepers in the main OECD football leagues (specifically, the six main leagues in Europe), over more than 10 seasons. Using Mincerian equations and Blinder-Oaxaca decomposition, we found that discrimination is mainly based on the nationality of the athletes, with discrimination based on skin color taking a secondary role. Complementary evidence based on the athlete's performance, experience or biological factors such as age was also discussed.		[Mourao, Paulo Reis] Univ Minho, Dept Econ, P-4700 Braga, Portugal; [Mourao, Paulo Reis] Univ Minho, NIPE, P-4700 Braga, Portugal; [Gomes, Magno Rogerio] UNESPAR Parana, Dept Econ, Apucarana, Brazil; [Mourao, Paulo Reis] Univ Minho, Dept Econ, P-4700 Braga, Portugal; [Mourao, Paulo Reis] Univ Minho, NIPE, P-4700 Braga, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001563278200001	46	Article; Article		
J	Perez-Arroniz, Markel; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio; Fernandez-Navarro, Javier; Zubillaga-Zubiaga, Asier								Criteria for the selection and development of academy soccer goalkeepers: Experts opinion								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1427	1438		10.1177/17479541251370186			JUN 2026	2026	Objective The main aim of this study was to provide a comprehensive view of effective strategies, offering the soccer community informed tools that will optimize the process of developing the next generation of goalkeepers through the experiences and perspectives of experienced goalkeeper coaches.Method The opinion of 14 professional goalkeeper coaches was gathered using a semi-structured interview. Following transcription, a thematic content analysis was conducted to identify and analyse patterns within the data.Results From all the data obtained authors structured the results in the following sections: most important attributes for the goalkeeper, talent identification, specific goalkeeper training, individualisation, conditioning training, psychology, periodisation and evolution of the goalkeeper position.Conclusions There is no single way to develop goalkeepers, however, certain patterns can be observed in both selection and training processes. 1) Identify promising young players with strong anthropometric, coordination and emotional profiles, 2) Coach must structure the learning process by periodising the acquisition of various techniques and situational awareness based on the demands of the competition, 3) Continuously adapt to the individual development of each player.		[Perez-Arroniz, Markel; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio; Zubillaga-Zubiaga, Asier] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sports, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, UPV EHU, Vitoria, Spain; [Fernandez-Navarro, Javier] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Perez-Arroniz, Markel] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sports, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, UPV EHU, Vitoria, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001563876900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Mahmood, Helena; Day, Melissa; McPherson, Gayle; Datson, Naomi; Unnithan, Viswanath B.								Key stakeholder perceptions of the implementation of the English Football Association's girls' Emerging Talent Centre pathway								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1453	1466		10.1177/17479541251370592			JUN 2026	2026	The restructure of the English Football Association's (FA) girls' soccer talent pathway in 2022 aimed to expand the available talent identification (TI) and development (TD) opportunities (i.e., access to FA-licensed environments), with particular focus on providing access to historically under-represented players (e.g., ethnic minority and lower socio-economic groups). Sociological attributes, including socio-demographic factors, influence TI and TD, but it is uncertain whether stakeholders consider these to foster inclusive environments. This study aimed to explore key stakeholder's perceptions of the implementation of the new Emerging Talent Centre (ETC) pathway, focussing on whether socio-demographic factors are considered during player recruitment and retention. Semi-structured interviews with ten key stakeholders including FA Women's Technical Division staff (n = 2), ETC managers (n = 4) and coaches (n = 4) were conducted, drawing on personal experiences and perspectives. Player ethnicity (n = 2111) and socio-economic status (n = 2940) data were utilised to assist understandings of these perceptions. These data were compared with socio-economic data from the previous pathway to assess early influence of the new pathways' implementation. Thematic analysis identified three key themes: stakeholder beliefs of the ETC pathway (clarity of pathway aims, early successes, early concerns); facilitators to increasing inclusivity and accessibility (extending organisational reach, flexible approaches to TI, engaging and supporting parents); barriers to increasing inclusivity and accessibility (socio-cultural, practical). Unique insight into stakeholder perceptions will impact further development of the ETC pathway, ensuring youth and senior domestic and national squads are representative of local and national populations.		[Mahmood, Helena; McPherson, Gayle; Unnithan, Viswanath B.] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Div Sport Exercise & Hlth, Glasgow, Scotland; [Day, Melissa] Univ Chichester, Inst Sport, Chichester, England; [Datson, Naomi] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Mahmood, Helena] Univ West Scotland, Sport & Phys Act Res Inst, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Div Sport Exercise & Hlth, Lanarkshire Campus, Glasgow, Scotland								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001563279500001	62	Article; Article		
J	Asian-Clemente, Jose A.; Galiano, Carlos; Muriarte, Diego; Beltran-Garrido, Jose V.; Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan								Goal! What happens before and after the goal? The demands of competition before and after a goal are different from the average match								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1493	1503		10.1177/17479541251370191			JUN 2026	2026	The objectives were: 1) compare the external load before and after a goal with average match demands, and 2) analyze differences in response of players pre and post goal scored and conceded. 23 official matches of twenty-two youth professional soccer players (age = 20.6 +/- 1.8 years, weight = 73.0 +/- 7.1 kg, and height = 1.80 +/- 7.4 m) were monitored. With Global Positioning System (GPS) were obtained the Distance Covered (DC), DC >21 km<middle dot>h(-1), DC >24 km<middle dot>h(-1), Player Load, accelerations and decelerations (+/- 2-3 m<middle dot>s(-2) and +/- 3 m<middle dot>s(-2)) during the mean of the matches (Team) and in the 5 and 10 min before (Pre5 and Pre10) and after (Post5 and Post10) the goals scored and conceded. DC >24 km<middle dot>h(-1) was higher to the Team in all periods independently of the goal status (p <= 0.05). Similarly, Team showed lower DC >21 km<middle dot>h(-1) than Pre5 in goals scored and Post5 in goals conceded (p <= 0.05). DC, Player Load (except, Pre10), as well as much of the accelerations and decelerations periods were reduced when the goal was conceded (p <= 0.05). Similarly, accelerations and decelerations were reduced in Post5 when the goal was scored, including accelerations between 2-3 m<middle dot>s(-2) in Post10 and higher than 3 m<middle dot>s(-2) in Pre5 (p <= 0.05). Comparing the same period of scoring or conceding a goal, small differences were observed with higher values during goals scored (p <= 0.05). Around goal moments, players' external load change compared to the match average, varying depending on whether the goal is scored or conceded, and the period analyzed.		[Asian-Clemente, Jose A.; Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Football Sci Inst, FSI Lab, Granada, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose A.] Pablo Olavide Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Galiano, Carlos] Univ Loyola Andalucia, Dept Commun & Educ, Ave Univ,2, Seville 41704, Spain; [Muriarte, Diego] Univ Madrid, Dept Sports, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, INEF Polytech, Madrid, Spain; [Beltran-Garrido, Jose V.] CEU Univ, Univ Cardenal Herrera CEU, Sch Humanities & Commun Sci, Dept Educ Sci,Phys Exercise & Performance Res Grp, Castellon De La Plana, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Pablo De Olavide Univ, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Sci Based Training Res Grp, Seville, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Social & Human Sci, Dept Mus Plast & Corporal Express, ENFYRED Res Grp, Teruel, Spain; [Galiano, Carlos] Univ Loyola Andalucia, Dept Commun & Educ, Ave Univ,2, Seville 41704, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001561039000001	39	Article; Article		
J	Kons, Rafael Lima; Apollaro, Gennaro; Henriquez, Matias; Bevins, Rachel; Ojeda-Aravena, Alex; Gulias, Vinicius de Oliveira Souza; Detanico, Daniele								Age at peak competitive performance in Judo: A comparison between Paris 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1887	1894		10.1177/17479541251369304			JUN 2026	2026	This study examined the age at peak competitive performance among judo athletes at the Paris 2024 Olympic (OG) and Paralympic Games (PG), considering sex, weight category, competition results, and sport classes (for PG). Data from 378 OG and 146 PG athletes were collected from the Official Result Books. Chronological age was calculated based on birth date and competition date. Mann-Whitney U and Chi-square tests were used to test the difference between groups. Results showed that PG athletes peaked at a significantly older age (median: 31 years) than OG athletes (median: 27 years; p < 0.001). This pattern was held across sex, competition result, and weight categories (p < 0.05). Within the PG group, athletes in J1 sport class (i.e., fully blind) reached peak performance later (median: 33 years) than athletes in J2 (i.e., partially sighted; median: 28 years, p < 0.05), especially among males, medalists, and heavier weight categories. No significant sex-based differences were found in either the OG or PG groups (p > 0.05). The findings suggest that differences at the age of competitive performance between OG and PG athletes may be attributed to distinct developmental pathways. PG athletes, in particular, may delay specialization due to later sport entry and classification-related factors, setting them apart from their OG counterparts. These findings highlight the need for individualized and inclusive long-term development strategies in judo, considering the particularities of each discipline.		[Kons, Rafael Lima; Gulias, Vinicius de Oliveira Souza] Univ Fed Bahia, Dept Phys Educ, Salvador, BA, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Vrije Univ Brussel, Human Physiol & Sports Physiotherapy Res Grp, Brussels, Belgium; [Apollaro, Gennaro] Univ Genoa, Dept Neurosci Rehabil Ophthalmol, Genet Maternal & Child Hlth, Genoa, Italy; [Henriquez, Matias] Univ Santo Tomas, Escuela Kinesiol, Fac Salud, Santiago, Chile; [Bevins, Rachel] Coventry Univ, Sch Sci, Coventry, England; [Ojeda-Aravena, Alex] Univ Los Lagos, Direcc Docencia, Osorno, Chile; [Detanico, Daniele] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Educ, BR-40110100 Salvador, BA, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001554991800001	50	Article; Article		
J	Dugdale, James H.; Duffie, Kieran; Dickson, Alban C. S.; English, Cedric; Martindale, Russell J. J.								Why we do it, how we do it, and can we do it better? Key stakeholder perceptions of physical fitness testing as part of a talent development programme in professional youth soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1467	1478		10.1177/17479541251367297			JUN 2026	2026	Increases in the demands placed upon soccer players during training and competition have resulted in an even greater role being played by sport scientists to compliment technical coaches. However, evaluation of multidisciplinary perspectives to routine processes and provisions within soccer talent development remain somewhat unexplored. This study aimed to investigate experiences of working as a multidisciplinary team with regards to utilising fitness testing as part of the talent development process within a professional soccer academy. Focus group interviews were conducted with six coaches (technical coaches: n = 3; physical performance coaches: n = 3) working within a professional soccer academy to explore their general philosophy, aims, decision making, and opinions in relation to physical fitness testing. Qualitative data collected from focus groups were analysed using framework analysis, which facilitated a systematic approach to framework advancement. Three themes were generated from the focus groups related to: i) Intentions and rationale behind physical fitness testing provision; ii) Utility of physical fitness test results within talent development; and iii) Reflective experiences of multidisciplinary practice associated with physical fitness testing. While technical and physical performance coaches were aligned with their perspectives related to these central concepts, role- and discipline-specific context was apparent. Collectively, results from this study may help rationalise physical fitness testing as part of academy player development in soccer and identify areas for improvement and refinement within these processes. These findings can act as a foundation to encourage similar reflective and evaluative processes in comparable talent development environments.		[Dugdale, James H.; Duffie, Kieran; Dickson, Alban C. S.; English, Cedric; Martindale, Russell J. J.] Edinburgh Napier Univ, Sch Appl Sci, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Duffie, Kieran] Hibernian Football Club, Football Sci & Med Dept, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Dugdale, James H.] Edinburgh Napier Univ, Sch Appl Sci, Edinburgh, Scotland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001549925500001	67	Article; Article		
J	Yakob, Ramsin								Towards a dynamic state-change assessment model of talent development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1403	1417		10.1177/17479541251364730			JUN 2026	2026	Despite growing recognition of the non-linear and multidimensional nature of athletic development, talent identification and development (TID) models remain largely grounded in static, trait-based assumptions. This study introduces the Dynamic State-Change Assessment Model (DSCAM), a conceptual assessment framework derived from 23 qualitative interviews with expert practitioners in elite football. DSCAM reconceptualizes talent development as an iterative process involving transitions between two primary dimensions: State Content, the athlete's current performability and capability, and Change Potential, their development needs and developability. The model integrates five assessment types (performative, diagnostic, formative, summative, and ipsative) and delineates both feedback and feedforward mechanisms that shape individualized developmental trajectories. Using constant comparative analysis, the study demonstrates how assessments simultaneously inform present evaluations and future projections, thereby challenging reductionist tendencies such as early selection and reliance on fixed metrics. By incorporating cognitive, physical, psychological, and contextual factors, DSCAM offers a more nuanced and adaptive framework for guiding long-term athlete development. The findings contribute to ongoing debates in sport science by advancing a theory-driven, evidence-informed model for improving assessment practices within applied talent development pathways.		[Yakob, Ramsin] Univ Gothenburg, Sch Business Econ & Law, Dept Business Adm, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Yakob, Ramsin] Univ Gothenburg, Sch Business Econ & Law, Dept Business Adm, Gothenburg, Sweden								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001543746200001	66	Article; Article		
J	Kember, Lucy S.; Myer, Gregory D.; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Dynamic Assessment Methods for ACL Injury Risk: A Narrative Review With Implications for Prevention and Rehabilitation								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	3			372	384		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000897			JUN 2026	2026	Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries present significant challenges in athletic populations, particularly among young female athletes who experience elevated risks during critical developmental stages. Effective prevention and rehabilitation require accurate assessment of neuromuscular function. This review explores dynamic jumping assessments across the stretch-shortening cycle (SSC) continuum to assess ACL injury risk factors and guide rehabilitation. Specifically, the tuck jump assessment (TJA) is highlighted for its utility to reveal neuromuscular control deficits across repetitive jumping cycles, which are often missed in single-repetition tests. Recent advancements in kinetic analyses of the TJA offer valuable insights into ground reaction forces, interlimb asymmetries, and SSC function, enhancing clinicians' ability to detect potential injury risks and monitor recovery in athletes with ACL reconstruction. Practical applications for incorporating the TJA into ACL injury screening and rehabilitation are discussed, emphasizing its role in progressive return-to-sport protocols. By integrating dynamic assessments like the TJA, clinicians can better identify at-risk athletes and tailor interventions to reduce reinjury rates and improve long-term athletic development outcomes.		[Kember, Lucy S.; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sport Performance & Res Ctr, Flowery Branch, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Georgia Inst Technol, Wallace H Coulter Dept Biomed Engn, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Univ, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Kember, Lucy S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001782515100002	112	Article; Article		
J	Nair, Anoop; Jansen Van Rensburg, Audrey; Viljoen, Carel T.; Ramkilawon, Gopika; Ramagole, Dimakatso; Maleka, Thabo Elias; Janse van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa)								Pre-existing injuries and illnesses in trail running: sex-based epidemiological findings from a 2022 forest marathon								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2680966				2026	Background: Trail running is a growing sport with increased injury and illness risk. We investigate the epidemiology of running-related injuries (RRI) and illnesses in male and female trail runners in the lead-up to the 2022 Magoebaskloof Forest Marathon, South Africa. Methods: A descriptive cross-sectional study across 10 km, 20 km, 30 km, and 50 km distances using pre-race medical screening data completed 2 weeks before the event. We report frequency (n, %), prevalence ratio (PR, %), incidence (per 1000 trail running-hours), severity [% time-loss; Burden (days lost/1000 running-hours)], and associated risk factors (odds ratio, OR) of chronic and acute injuries and illness. Results: The annual injury incidence was 2.79/1000 trail running-hours, with most injuries affecting the lower limb in both males (47.15%) and females (45.53%; PR = 0.99). Muscle/tendon injuries (49.59%) and muscle strains (21.95%) were most common, with no statistical significant difference between sexes. The overall injury burden was 32.7 days lost/1000 running-hours. Chronic conditions were reported by 14.22% of runners, while only seven reported acute illnesses. Although 46.62% of runners had > 5 years total overall running experience, only 22.14% had equivalent years of trail running experience. Injury risk increased with longer race distances entered and >3 weekly training sessions. Conclusion: One in four trail runners reported a RRI within the 6 months prior to the event, mainly affecting the lower limb. Chronic conditions were present in 14% of trail runners. While this study offers key insights into trail running injury and illness, further research on risk factors is needed.		[Nair, Anoop; Jansen Van Rensburg, Audrey; Ramagole, Dimakatso; Maleka, Thabo Elias; Janse van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa)] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [Nair, Anoop; Jansen Van Rensburg, Audrey; Viljoen, Carel T.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, SEMLI, Pretoria, South Africa; [Viljoen, Carel T.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Pretoria, South Africa; [Ramkilawon, Gopika] Univ Pretoria, Fac Nat & Agr Sci, Dept Stat, Pretoria, South Africa; [Janse van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa)] World Netball, Med Advisory Panel, Manchester, England; [Janse van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa)] Univ Pretoria, Sect Sports Med, ZA-0028 Hatfield, South Africa								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001780343200001	59	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Coban, Ulku; Uca, Merve; Ayvaz, Ednan								Coaching leadership behaviors and athletes' psychological resilience: The role of autonomy-supportive and relational coaching practices								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261455504				2026	Psychological resilience is an important resource that helps athletes cope with stress and maintain performance in sport settings, and coaching leadership behaviors may play a role in shaping this capacity. This study examined the relationship between athletes' perceptions of coaching leadership and psychological resilience using hierarchical regression analyses. A total of 181 athletes (39.8% women) from different sport disciplines completed measures of leadership behaviors, resilience, and demographic characteristics. The results showed that leadership behaviors explained a significant proportion of variance in resilience beyond demographic factors. Higher social support and lower levels of autocratic coaching were associated with greater resilience, whereas democratic behavior and training and instruction did not contribute significantly when all leadership dimensions were considered together. Athletes with more years of sport experience reported higher resilience, while age and other demographic variables were not significant. Sport participation level was also examined as an additional contextual factor. These findings indicate that supportive coaching practices and lower controlling behaviors are associated with athletes' ability to cope with challenges in sport contexts.		[Coban, Ulku] Univ Yalova, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sports Management, Yalova, Turkiye; [Uca, Merve] Istanbul Nisantasi Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Dept Coaching Training, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Ayvaz, Ednan] Kocaeli Univ, Fac Management, Dept Business Adm, Kocaeli, Turkiye; [Ayvaz, Ednan] Kocaeli Univ, Fac Management, Dept Business Adm, Baki Komsuoglu Bulvari 515, TR-41001 Izmit Kocaeli, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001778373900001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Chathurangi, A. K. D. K.; Silva, R. M.; Withanage, N.; Jayasinghe, C. L.								Modeling the joint influence of key factors on score contribution and ball utilization in limited-overs cricket for ranking player and team batting performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261451123				2026	This study develops a modeling framework to evaluate both player and team batting performances in One Day International (ODI) and Twenty20 (T20) cricket formats. The model jointly analyzes two key measures of batting performance; score contribution and ball utilization. A joint beta mixed-effects model was fitted using the PROC NLMIXED procedure in SAS to capture the inherent relationship between productivity and efficiency that traditional univariate models fail to represent effectively. At the player level, the model identifies significant predictors of batting success including match strike rate, batting position and player experience. These variables consistently influence individual outcomes and their joint estimation of score contribution and ball utilization provide a more accurate and interpretable understanding of batting behavior. This framework has practical applications in player ranking, talent identification and decision-making in cricket analytics. At the team level, the findings indicate that wickets taken and run rate emerge as the key predictors of team batting performance. Run rate has a positive influence on performance in both formats highlighting the importance of scoring efficiency. The joint beta model provides more accurate and reliable estimates by jointly analyzing correlated performance measures rather than modeling them separately.		[Chathurangi, A. K. D. K.] Inst Technol Univ Moratuwa, Div Interdisciplinary Studies, Diyagama, Homagama, Sri Lanka; [Chathurangi, A. K. D. K.] Univ Sri Jayewardenepura, Fac Grad Studies, Nugegoda, Sri Lanka; [Silva, R. M.; Withanage, N.; Jayasinghe, C. L.] Univ Sri Jayewardenepura, Dept Stat, Nugegoda, Sri Lanka; [Chathurangi, A. K. D. K.] Inst Technol Univ Moratuwa, Div Interdisciplinary Studies, Diyagama, Homagama, Sri Lanka								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001778126600001	23	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Mercer, Richard A. J.; Russell, Jennifer L.; Strack, Donald S.; Coutts, Aaron J.; McLean, Blake D.								Workload and travel demands of professional basketball staff: A season-long case study across the National Basketball Association and G League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261449029				2026	Staff in high-performance sport face considerable workload challenges, including long and irregular hours, frequent travel, and demanding responsibilities. These demands reflect substantial professional time commitments within increasingly professionalized and resource-intensive environments, highlighting the need to understand how staff work and cope with demanding schedules. This study examined work hours, travel requirements, and schedule characteristics of staff from one National Basketball Association (NBA) team and one NBA G League team across a full year. A longitudinal, observational design captured preseason, competitive season, and off-season workloads across departments (e.g., coaching, medical, performance). Work hour estimates were derived from team schedules and structured interviews with 10 senior staff representing departments across both teams (7 NBA and 3 G League staff; age = 40.0 +/- 8.0 [29-60] years, experience in NBA = 13.3 +/- 7.2 [6-28] years). Travel data included number of trips, time zones crossed, hours traveled, and days away from home. Unconventional working hours and recovery time between consecutive days were also calculated. The NBA and G League preseason and competitive season phases spanned 28.6 and 25.5 weeks, respectively. During the competitive season, NBA games occurred every 2.1 +/- 0.9 days and G League games every 2.8 +/- 1.6 days, with an average of 15.1 +/- 6.8 and 11.2 +/- 6.0 days between 'building closed' days (i.e., non-work/travel days), respectively. NBA staff worked 44.2-66.7 h per week during the season and 37.1-49.1 in the off-season, with 41-49% of work occurring outside 09:00-17:00 in-season. G League staff worked 38.9-56.3 h weekly during the season. Staff spent 46% (NBA) and 42% (G League) of the competitive season away from home, averaging 9.7 +/- 2.7 and 15.7 +/- 6.4 travel hours per week away from home, respectively. NBA travel occurred mainly overnight on charter flights, while G League staff traveled mostly during the day via commercial flights or bus. These findings highlight prolonged hours, frequent travel, and limited recovery, underscoring the need for organizational strategies to optimize scheduling and support staff well-being.		[Mercer, Richard A. J.; Strack, Donald S.; Coutts, Aaron J.; McLean, Blake D.] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Human Performance Res Ctr, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Mercer, Richard A. J.; Russell, Jennifer L.; Strack, Donald S.; McLean, Blake D.] Oklahoma City Thunder Profess Basketball Club, Human & Player Performance, 9600 N Oklahoma Ave, Oklahoma City, OK 73114 USA; [Mercer, Richard A. J.] Oklahoma City Thunder Profess Basketball Club, Human & Player Performance, 9600 N Oklahoma Ave, Oklahoma City, OK 73114 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001769848300001	71	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Moraes, Melquisedeque da Silva; More, Rita Adriana Stoeterau; More, Cristiano Rafael; Santana, Hugo Alexandre de Paula; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Aquino, Rodrigo; Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre								Influence of biological maturation on physical performance during small-sided games in young soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261446926				2026	This study analyzed somatic maturation's effect on young soccer players' running performance during small-sided games (SSG) and physical fitness levels. The players performed four tests sessions: 1) anthropometric assessments (body mass, height and body fat percentage), determination of peak height velocity (PHV), and physical evaluations (Carminatti test and countermovement jump); 2) Wilson protocol carried out to identify soccer talents (3 & times; 3, 25 & times; 35 m); 3 and 4) SSG on natural grass (6 & times; 6 including goalkeepers, 25 & times; 49 m), in which participants played against teams composed of players with similar and different maturation levels, respectively. More and less mature players were based on below and above PHV median values, respectively. During the SSG, players were equipped with a GPS to determine the physical variables, such as maximum heart rate, total distance (TD), average speed (AS) and number of sprints. For U-13, less mature players playing against more mature ones, presented higher TD (466.7 +/- 71.4 vs 548.8 +/- 51.9 m) and AS (4.9 +/- 0.7 vs 5.7 +/- 0.5 km & centerdot;h(-1)) during the second half. For U-15, less mature players showed higher HRmax than the more mature players during matches against same maturation groups (194.1 +/- 4.4 vs 181.8 +/- 11.5 bpm). Biological maturation had a limited impact on running and physiological performance during small-sided games. In the U-13 category, less mature players presented higher high-speed running (HSR) compared to more mature players, regardless of opponent maturation level. In the U-15 category, HRmax was higher in less mature players than the more mature players.		[Moraes, Melquisedeque da Silva; More, Rita Adriana Stoeterau; More, Cristiano Rafael; Santana, Hugo Alexandre de Paula; Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre] Fed Univ Mato Grosso do Sul UFMS, Postgrad Program Movement Sci, Campo Grande, Brazil; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech, Gdansk, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Polytech Univ Coimbra, Appl Res Inst i2A, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Coimbra, Portugal; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Fed Univ Espirito Santo UFES, Ctr Phys Educ & Sports, LabSport, Vitoria, Brazil; [Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre] State Univ Ponta Grossa UEPG, Dept Phys Educ, Ponta Grossa, Brazil; [Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre] Univ Estadual Ponta Grossa, Dept Phys Educ, Ponta Grossa, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001769846100001	50	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Travis, Eleanor; Brogden, Chris; Jones, Ashley; Parmley, James								Whole, half and peak characteristics of women's international flag football match-play during the 2024 world championships								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261449408				2026	This study quantifies and describes the full, half and peak running characteristics during women's international flag football match-play. A total of 54 player match observations were taken from eight players, consisting of four offence and four defence. A repeated measures observational cohort design was used. Commonly used microtechnology variables including total-, high-speed- (3.46-5.29 m & centerdot;s(-1)), very high-speed- (5.29-6.26 m & centerdot;s(-1)) and sprint-distance (>6.26 m & centerdot;s(-1)) alongside high acceleration and deceleration (>2 m & centerdot;s(-2) and <-2 m & centerdot;s(-2), respectively) distance and count is documented. Whole, half and peak game characteristics were calculated for offence, defence and players who played both ways. On average, the whole game total distance for offence and defence was 1627 +/- 386 m and 1514 +/- 343 m respectively. For offence and defence similar to 16% and 9% of total distance was high speed running (3.46-5.29 m & centerdot;s(-1)) and similar to 3% was very high-speed running (5.29-6.26 m & centerdot;s(-1)) and <1% was covered by sprinting (>6.26 m & centerdot;s(-1)). The median number of accelerations and decelerations per match was 21 and 16 respectively for offence, and 8 and 10 for defence. The whole-match average speed was 29.8 m & centerdot;min(-1) for offence and 27.0 m & centerdot;min(-1) for defence. Average speeds increased as temporal durations decreased to 5 s (average speed = 294 m & centerdot;min(-1)). Findings highlight the intermittent nature of flag football, with players required to cover distance at various speeds and frequently change speed throughout. This is the first study to highlight the running characteristics of flag football tournaments. Such data can be used by coaches and performance staff to design appropriate and informed training stimuli to help optimise athlete performance for future tournaments.		[Travis, Eleanor; Brogden, Chris; Jones, Ashley] Leeds Beckett Univ, Sch Hlth, Musculoskeletal Hlth Res Grp, Leeds, England; [Parmley, James] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds, England; [Parmley, James] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Manchester, England; [Travis, Eleanor] Leeds Beckett Univ, Sch Hlth, Musculoskeletal Hlth Res Grp, Leeds, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001769843300001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Judge, Lawrence W.; Garcia-Carrillo, Exal								Sustained paralympic excellence: A case study of coaching strategies in the long-term development of Jeremy Campbell								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2470	2486		10.1177/17479541261449729			AUG 2026	2026	Sustained elite performance across multiple Paralympic cycles remains poorly understood, particularly in para-athletics throwing events. The aim of this study was to examine the coach-athlete partnership and adaptive strategies that underpinned Jeremy Campbell's 16-year elite discus performance using the Adaptive Synergy Framework as an analytic lens. This longitudinal case study integrated official competition records, training documentation, biomechanical reconstructions from video, and reflective coaching journals. Performance and biomechanical variables were compared between his 55.08 m gold medal throw at Beijing 2008 and his 65.86 m world record throw at Mesa 2021. Campbell won Paralympic gold medals across five Games from 2008 to 2024. Estimated release velocity increased from 23.0 to 25.5 m & centerdot;s(-)(1), an 11% increase. Hip-shoulder separation increased from 25 degrees to 40 degrees. Delivery-phase impulse increased from approximately 1450 to 1750 N & centerdot;s. Key coaching strategies included Paralympic-centered periodization, strategic competition selection, and autonomy-supportive communication. Sustained Paralympic excellence was associated with iterative technical refinement, adaptive periodization, and relational stability. This case offers practice-informed implications for coaching longevity in para-sport while always acknowledging the limits of single-case generalizability.		[Judge, Lawrence W.] Florida Gulf Coast Univ, Marieb Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Ft Myers, FL USA; [Judge, Lawrence W.] Ball State Univ, Coll Hlth, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN USA; [Garcia-Carrillo, Exal] Univ Catolica Maule, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Phys Act Sci, Talca, Chile; [Garcia-Carrillo, Exal] Univ Los Lagos, Dept Phys Act Sci, Osorno, Chile; [Judge, Lawrence W.] Florida Gulf Coast Univ, Coll Hlth Deans Off, Ft Myers, FL 33919 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001767947000001	52	Article; Article		
J	Dube, Sindiso R.; Grobbelaar, Heinrich W.; Cumming, Sean P.; Derman, E. Wayne; Wik, Eirik H.								Assessing the influence of chronological and skeletal age on selection and physical performance in South African youth football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2219	2230		10.1177/17479541261446437			AUG 2026	2026	This cross-sectional study examined potential selection-biases-specifically the Relative Age Effect (RAE) and maturation selection-bias-and explored how chronological age (CA) and skeletal age (SA) relate to physical performance in South African youth footballers. A total of 105 male players aged 10-18 years from two academies in the Western Cape province were assessed. Anthropometric data were collected, and SA was estimated using the BAUSport (TM) system. Performance outcomes included hip adduction and abduction strength (N), handgrip strength (kg), and standing broad jump (cm). Players were grouped into CA and SA percentile-bands across the full sample, and performance was compared using one-way Welch's ANOVA. Multiple linear regression was used to examine the predictive value of CA and SA on physical performance. RAE was evident, with more players born in the first half of the selection year. A key finding was the slightly delayed maturation profile in the sample, with an underrepresentation of early maturers-contrasting with trends that typically favour them. This suggests that RAE may have a stronger influence than early maturation on continued selection and participation. Both CA and SA were positively associated with performance, but SA emerged as the stronger predictor, particularly among younger players. However, performance differences plateaued at higher maturity levels. These findings highlight the influence of CA and SA on selection and performance in youth football. Considering maturity status into talent development strategies may promote more developmentally appropriate and equitable practices. The study provides important baseline data for future research in South African football.		[Dube, Sindiso R.; Grobbelaar, Heinrich W.] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Div Sport Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Cumming, Sean P.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Derman, E. Wayne; Wik, Eirik H.] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Div Sport & Exercise Med, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Derman, E. Wayne] Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr, Sports Sci & Res, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Wik, Eirik H.] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Dube, Sindiso R.] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Div Sport Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001767943500001	36	Article; Article		
J	Kosirnik, Celine; Antonini Philippe, Roberta; Boillat, Pauline; Pomini, Valentino								Supporting self-critical performers: Coaches and teachers balancing excellence and compassionate environments in sport and the performing arts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261448393				2026	High-performance environments in sport, dance, and music often emphasize excellence and discipline, yet performers frequently experience setbacks and intense self-criticism. Self-compassion has recently emerged as a valuable resource for coping with these challenges, but little research has explored how coaches perceive and foster compassion and self-compassion. This qualitative study investigated coaches' perspectives on supporting performers facing self-critical reactions and the conditions that facilitate or hinder compassionate learning environments. Fourteen coaches (6 in dance, 4 in music, 4 in sport) from French-speaking Switzerland participated in discipline-specific online focus groups (n = 3). Discussions were guided by semi-structured interviews using case-based scenarios designed to elicit spontaneous reactions to performers' difficulties. Data were analyzed using thematic analysis combining deductive and inductive approaches. Three main themes emerged. First, coaches described navigating tensions between maintaining high performance standards and responding compassionately to performers' self-criticism. While coaches often recognized emotional distress and aimed to individualize their responses, time constraints and performance pressures limited such efforts. Second, relational strategies, such as encouraging dialogue, sharing personal experiences, and facilitating peer support, were identified as ways to normalize difficulties and reduce performers' sense of isolation. Third, broader cultural and structural influences shaped coaching practices, including performance cultures emphasizing toughness, as well as limited training and resources related to psychological support. Overall, the findings highlight the ambivalent position of coaches attempting to balance performance demands with compassionate approaches. Supporting coaches through education, access to psychological expertise, and opportunities for peer exchange may help foster more compassionate environments while maintaining excellence.		[Kosirnik, Celine; Antonini Philippe, Roberta; Boillat, Pauline] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Pomini, Valentino] Univ Lausanne, Inst Psychol, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Kosirnik, Celine] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001767219000001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Febles-Castro, Adrian; Lopez-Belmonte, Oscar; Arellano, Raul; Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus J.								Is drop jump related to front crawl tumble turn performance in adolescent swimmers? An exploratory, sex-stratified analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261449732				2026	Plyometric training has been proposed as a relevant tool for swimming performance, especially in turns, given its biomechanical similarity to the push-off phase. This study aimed 1) to analyse the relationship between the drop jump (DJ) variables and the tumble turn variables and 2) to explore which DJ variables may predict the tumble turn time. A cross-sectional design was used to examine the relationship between the DJ and tumble turn performance. Eighteen swimmers (9 females, 14.3 +/- 0.8 years; and 9 males, 15.2 +/- 0.5 years) participated. Swimmers completed a standardized dryland warm-up followed by 5 sets of a single DJ. Subsequently, participants underwent a standardized in-water warm-up before performing 3 front crawl tumble turns. Sex-stratified correlations, exploratory linear stepwise multiple regression, and network analyses were performed to examine the relationships between DJ variables and tumble turn performance. Jump height correlated with the mean horizontal velocity during the wall contact active phase for females (r = 0.71; p = 0.033) and males (rho=0.9; p = 0.001). The tuck index of the DJ (TIG) showed association with the time from wall contact to 2.5 m (T2.5m-out) for females (r = 0.76; p = 0.018) and males (r = -0.67; p = 0.047). Exploratory multiple regressions explained the T2.5m-out for females and males (87% and 88% of the variance, respectively) with TIG as the main predictor in both. In conclusion, DJ performance was associated with tumble turn performance. Variations in the tuck index during DJ, reflecting different hip and knee displacement patterns, may be linked to differences in tumble turn efficiency.		[Febles-Castro, Adrian; Lopez-Belmonte, Oscar; Arellano, Raul; Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus J.] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Aquat Lab, Granada, Spain; [Lopez-Belmonte, Oscar] Univ Valladolid, Fac Educ, Dept Didact Mus Artist & Bodily Express, Soria, Spain; [Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus J.] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, Human Performance & Sports Sci Lab, Murcia, Spain; [Arellano, Raul] Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Aquat Lab, Ctra Alfacar S-N, Granada 18011, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001767211700001	53	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Nikolov, Ivan								Development of indigenous soccer athletes through the North American indigenous games: A case study in transformational, culturally grounded, and holistic coaching								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2462	2469		10.1177/17479541261451126			AUG 2026	2026	Indigenous youth in Canada face structural, geographic, and cultural barriers that shape their participation in high-performance sport. Despite increasing attention to inclusive coaching, limited empirical research explores how transformational and culturally grounded methods operate within elite Indigenous sport contexts. This qualitative case study analyzes the developmental processes used within the Team British Columbia (Team BC) U16 Boys soccer program in preparation for the 2023 North American Indigenous Games (NAIG). The program cycle ran from July 2022 to July 2023, encompassing regional and provincial tryouts, targeted training camps, and competition at NAIG 2023 in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Drawing on field observations, athlete reflections, cultural sessions delivered by Elders and Knowledge Holders, and coaching documentation, the study examines how relational trust, cultural mentorship, identity formation, athlete-led learning, and integrated developmental model contributed to psychosocial and competitive outcomes. Findings demonstrate that culturally grounded coaching practices enhanced athlete confidence, tactical understanding, communication, resilience, and collective performance. These results highlight the importance of decolonizing coaching approaches in high-performance environments and show that Indigenous-informed coaching frameworks can support both development and competitive excellence. The study contributes to coaching science by offering empirical evidence of culturally grounded high-performance soccer development and by identifying implications for future research, coach education, and applied practice. It is also acknowledged that the program brought together athletes representing approximately 14 distinct First Nations bands, M & eacute;tis communities, and urban Indigenous backgrounds across British Columbia, each carrying unique cultural, social, and political realities. While this diversity is a strength of the program, the study does not fully disaggregate findings across these distinct groups, a limitation acknowledged and discussed further in Section 5.		[Nikolov, Ivan] Lethbridge Coll, Soccer Program, Lethbridge, AB, Canada; [Nikolov, Ivan] Langara Coll, Vancouver, BC, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001767220600001	11	Article; Article		
J	Andreasen, Stephanie; Conrad, Jessica L.; McMorris, Carly A.; Tint, Ami; Weiss, Jonathan A.; Ames, Megan E.; Payne, Marie; Payne, Chantal; Payne, Thomasina; Redquest, Brianne K.								An exploration of the coach experience in Special Olympics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261447260				2026	Special Olympics (SO) supports athletes with intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDDs) through programming in sports, health, and community building. SO coaches have an essential role in facilitating a positive learning environment for their athletes; however, being an SO coach can be challenging as they adapt their coaching to meet the specific needs of the athletes. While there has been an increase in research about coach training and practices, there continues to be limited research on the specific context of coaching in disability sport. The current study examined SO coaches' perspectives and experiences related to their role, their support of SO athletes in SO activities, and in their broader communities. We conducted interviews with seventeen SO coaches and identified three themes and seven subthemes about their experiences. Overall, coaches found their role rewarding; however, they also identified many challenges. The current paper offers recommendations for SO, and the broader sport community on supporting coaches in disability sport.		[Andreasen, Stephanie; McMorris, Carly A.; Redquest, Brianne K.] Univ Calgary, Sch & Appl Child Psychol, Werklund Sch Educ, 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada; [Andreasen, Stephanie; McMorris, Carly A.; Redquest, Brianne K.] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst ACHRI, 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada; [Conrad, Jessica L.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Tint, Ami] Univ Calgary, Fac Arts, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Weiss, Jonathan A.] York Univ, Dept Psychol, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Ames, Megan E.] Univ Victoria, Fac Hlth, Dept Psychol, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Payne, Marie] Special Olymp Coach, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Payne, Chantal; Payne, Thomasina] Special Olymp Athlete, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [McMorris, Carly A.] Univ Calgary, Sch & Appl Child Psychol, Werklund Sch Educ, 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada; [McMorris, Carly A.] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst ACHRI, 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001765901700001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	A. Liao, Kenneth; Gonzalez-Ramirez, Jimena; Meyer, Kevin; Adams, Victoria								Paying to Play: How Seasonal Fees Affect Disc Golf Course Choice								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS											10.1177/15270025261450148				2026	This paper measures how a seasonal vehicle entry fee affects disc golf course choice in Westchester County, New York. We use ten years of user-level data from the UDisc app, covering 30,531 visits by 758 players from 2015 to 2024, in a setting with two nearby and broadly comparable courses. One course is located within a state park that charges a predictable $10 per-vehicle fee on a seasonal calendar, while the other course is free year-round. We estimate a within-user probit model of course choice, controlling for weather differences and a linear time index, with fixed effects for user, day of week, holiday, and year. When the fee is in effect, the probability of choosing the fee course falls by about 1.5 percentage points, a result that is robust to logit and linear probability models.		[A. Liao, Kenneth] Farmingdale State Coll, Dept Econ, Farmingdale, NY USA; [Gonzalez-Ramirez, Jimena; Adams, Victoria] Manhattan Coll, Malley Sch Business, Dept Econ & Finance, Riverdale, NY 10471 USA; [Meyer, Kevin] Saginaw Valley State Univ, Dept Econ, University Ctr, MI USA; [Gonzalez-Ramirez, Jimena] Manhattan Coll, Malley Sch Business, Dept Econ & Finance, Riverdale, NY 10471 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001765875700001	47	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Han, Gyujik; Chang, Yonghwan; Yoo, Tae Woong; Nestler, Scott; Cunningham, George B.								Who gets the blame or credit, and how is it said? Attribution and sentiment in NBA vs. WNBA Finals discourse on X								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0174				2026	PurposeThis study examines whether league context is associated with systematic differences in how fans explain and evaluate outcomes in event-time Finals discourse, comparing NBA and WNBA conversations on X. Specifically, we assess whether the leagues differ in the locus of attribution emphasized (internal vs. external) and in the composition of evaluative sentiment, distinguishing supportive versus non-supportive positivity and hostile versus non-hostile negativity.Design/methodology/approachWe collected public X posts from the 2025 NBA and WNBA Finals using a standardized game-centered observation window and restricted analyses to original posts. Posts were annotated for (a) attribution locus and (b) sentiment. Labels were generated at scale using a supervised, fine-tuned multi-task large language model, with GPT-4.1 mini as the base model. League differences in category prevalences were summarized as percentage-point contrasts with bootstrap confidence intervals.FindingsNBA Finals discourse emphasized internal attributions more frequently (49 vs. 42%), whereas WNBA Finals discourse emphasized external attributions more frequently (48 vs. 41%), indicating a league-linked shift in accountability orientation. Sentiment patterns also diverged: NBA discourse was more negative overall (50 vs. 41%), driven by both hostile and non-hostile negative expressions, while WNBA discourse was more positive overall (59 vs. 50%), with the positivity difference concentrated in supportive, affiliative expressions (29 vs. 19%) rather than non-supportive positivity.Originality/valueThe study advances a comparative account of league-differentiated fandom environments by treating league context as an interpretive framework for online discourse. It refines sport social media sentiment measurement beyond valence and links attribution and sentiment as interlocking components of fan discourse.		[Han, Gyujik; Chang, Yonghwan; Yoo, Tae Woong; Nestler, Scott] Univ Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Cunningham, George B.] Yale Univ, Berkeley Divin Sch, New Haven, CT USA; [Han, Gyujik] Univ Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001763493000001	57	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kisida, Brian; Pepper, Matthew; Podgursky, Michael; Wickman, Michelle								Searching for the Queen's Gambit: An Analysis of Male-Female Performance Gaps in US Chess								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS											10.1177/15270025261438415				2026	We examine male-female rating gaps for young chess players using two decades of data from the U.S. Chess Federation. A contribution of our study is that we analyze the evolution of male-female gaps across a broad range of chess ratings, from novice to advanced. We find large gaps favoring males at entry and beyond across all percentiles of the ratings distribution. We find similar returns to tournament experience for males and females. Although female players have higher attrition rates than males, the net effect of this differential attrition on population ratings gaps is null. We find some evidence that male-female rating gaps at entry narrow modestly as female participation in the home locale rises - an effect that is generally stronger for weaker players. The key explanation for male-female differences in the population are ratings gaps at entry, which are large when first observed and persist over time.		[Kisida, Brian] Univ Missouri, Truman Sch Govt & Publ Affairs, Columbia, MO USA; [Pepper, Matthew] Basis Policy Res, Grand Rapids, MI USA; [Podgursky, Michael; Wickman, Michelle] St Louis Univ, Sinquefield Ctr Appl Econ Res, St Louis, MO USA; [Podgursky, Michael] Univ Missouri, Columbia, MO USA; [Podgursky, Michael] Univ Missouri, Econ, Locust St Bldg, Columbia, MO 65211 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001764810200001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Daehlin, Torstein E.; Johnson, Caleb D.; Foulis, Stephen A.; Hughes, Julie M.; Davis, Irene S.								Machine learning classifiers for automatic classification of foot strike patterns from 2D video								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2669133				2026	Automatic classification of forefoot (FFS), midfoot (MFS), or rearfoot (RFS) strike patterns from video data remains challenging. This study aimed to explore the ability of machine learning classifiers to determine foot strike patterns of runners and compare their performance to cut-point methods described in the literature. Video data from 767 U.S. Army trainees were used for this study. Participants were recorded while running on a treadmill at 2.68-2.90 m/s. The location of the heel and 5th metatarsal head were identified from video recordings using DeepLabCut and used to compute foot strike angles, angular excursion, and angular velocity. Three machine learning algorithms were trained to classify FFS, MFS, and RFS using 60% of the data. The remaining 40% of the data was held out to test model performance. Foot strike patterns were determined from foot strike angles using three different cut-point methods. The highest performing machine learning classifier had an F1 score of 70.0% compared to 66.7%, 68.9%, and 53.0% for the investigated cut-point methods. The machine learning classifier performed better at classifying MFS compared to the cut-point methods on most evaluation metrics. Machine learning algorithms may be an accurate and practical tool for automatic classification of foot strike.		[Daehlin, Torstein E.; Davis, Irene S.] Univ S Florida, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Tampa, FL 33620 USA; [Johnson, Caleb D.; Foulis, Stephen A.; Hughes, Julie M.] US Army, Mil Performance Div, Res Inst Environm Med, Natick, MA USA; [Daehlin, Torstein E.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Daehlin, Torstein E.] Univ S Florida, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Tampa, FL 33620 USA; [Daehlin, Torstein E.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Burnaby, BC, Canada								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001762819700001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Meyer, Kyle; Garnett, Daniel; Janse van Rensburg, Dina C.; Fletcher, Lizelle; Viljoen, Carel								In-competition injury epidemiology and associated injury risk factors among South African junior provincial rugby players: a prospective cohort study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2669463				2026	Background: Epidemiological studies in rugby are vast for senior elite professional players, though the same cannot be said for junior elite professional players, thus limiting stakeholders' ability to formulate effective injury risk management strategies for this population.<br /> Objective: To investigate the epidemiology, clinical characteristics and associated injury risk factors among elite male junior provincial rugby players in South Africa.<br /> Methods: Training and match play injury data was prospectively collected during a 10 week Under-21 (u21) and a 3 week Under-19 (u19) in-competition period. Injury prevalence (% of injured participants), incidence (injuries/1000 h), clinical characteristics (anatomical region, pathology type, injury severity and injury event) and risk factors associated with injury (baseline injury, age and playing position) formed part of the primary outcomes of the study.<br /> Results: U21 male participants (45.38/1000 h) had a higher injury incidence than u19 male participants (42.20/1000 h). Injuries to the lower limb were most common for both u19 (50.6%) and u21 (51.1%) participants. Muscle/tendon injuries (50.8%) occurred most often.<br /> Conclusion: Overall u21 male participants had a higher injury prevalence and incidence than u19 male participants during the in-competition period. Injuries to the lower limb and muscle/tendon type injuries were mostly effected.		[Meyer, Kyle; Viljoen, Carel] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, ZA-0028 Pretoria, South Africa; [Garnett, Daniel] Oxford Brookes Univ, Dept Sport Hlth Sci & Social Work, Oxford, England; [Janse van Rensburg, Dina C.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [Janse van Rensburg, Dina C.] Univ Pretoria, Sports Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst, Pretoria, South Africa; [Fletcher, Lizelle] Univ Pretoria, Fac Nat & Agr Sci, Dept Stat, Pretoria, South Africa; [Meyer, Kyle] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, ZA-0028 Pretoria, South Africa								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001761519100001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kim, Jiwon; Choi, Yuna; Jang, Sumin; Park, Kyue-Nam; Lee, Sae Yong; Song, Kyeongtak								Task-specific effects of visual reliance on visuomotor reactive performance in individuals with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				80						101926	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101926			JUL 2026	2026	Objectives: To investigate task-specific relationships between visual reliance during postural control and visuomotor reactive performance in individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Twenty-five participants with CAI. Main outcome measures: Relationships between anteroposterior and mediolateral visual reliance during eyes-open and eyes-closed single-leg standing and visuomotor reactive performance from a reactive balance test (RBT) and a reactive single-leg hop-to-stabilization (RSH) were examined. Results: During the RBT, increased anteroposterior visual reliance was associated with slower visuomotor reaction time (r = 0.45, p = 0.02). In the RSH, greater mediolateral visual reliance was related to increased sagittal plane knee and hip displacement (knee: r = 0.414, p = 0.04; hip: r = 0.496, p = 0.01), longer jump distance (r = 0.44, p = 0.03), and higher center of pressure velocity (r = 0.45, p = 0.02). Conclusions: In CAI, visual reliance exhibits task specific effects contingent on visuomotor demands. While it serves as an effective compensatory strategy to enhance performance in less demanding tasks, it leads to systemic overload under high visuomotor demands. Therefore, rehabilitation should incorporate task specific visuomotor challenges to facilitate functional recovery.		[Kim, Jiwon; Choi, Yuna; Jang, Sumin; Park, Kyue-Nam; Lee, Sae Yong; Song, Kyeongtak] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 50 Yonsei Ro, Seoul 03722, South Korea; [Lee, Sae Yong; Song, Kyeongtak] Yonsei Univ, Int Olymp Comm Res Ctr Korea, 50 Yonsei Ro, Seoul 03722, South Korea; [Song, Kyeongtak] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 50 Yonsei Ro, Seoul 03722, South Korea								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001767498300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Guler, Muhammed; Yesiltepe, Akgun; Topcuoglu, Ceyhun								Psychological well-being and aggression in handball players: examining the mediating role of exercise addiction								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2667725				2026	Objective: This study aimed to examine the relationship between psychological well-being and aggression among handball players and to determine whether exercise addiction mediates this relationship. Methods: A descriptive, cross-sectional, and correlational design was used. The population consisted of players competing in the Turkish Handball Leagues during the 2024-2025 season, and 442 athletes participated using a non-probability sampling method. Data were collected via an online survey including a personal information form, the Psychological Well-Being Scale, the Buss-Perry Aggression Questionnaire, and the Exercise Addiction Inventory. Results: Psychological well-being showed a significant negative correlation with aggression (r = -0.242, p < 0.001). Exercise addiction was positively associated with both psychological well-being (r = 0.212, p < 0.001) and aggression (r = 0.105, p = 0.027). Mediation analysis indicated that exercise addiction significantly and partially mediated the relationship between psychological well-being and aggression (indirect effect 95% CI: 0.0246-0.1654). The direct effect of psychological well-being on aggression remained significant (beta = -0.7093, p < 0.001). Conclusion: Higher psychological well-being was associated with lower aggression among handball players, whereas exercise addiction was associated with both higher psychological well-being and higher aggression and emerged as a partial statistical mediator of this relationship. These findings may help inform future studies and preventive strategies focusing on athlete mental health and behavioral regulation. However, because of the cross-sectional design, causal inferences cannot be drawn.		[Guler, Muhammed] Munzur Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Recreat, Tunceli, Turkiye; [Yesiltepe, Akgun] Munzur Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Midwifery, Tunceli, Turkiye; [Topcuoglu, Ceyhun] Munzur Univ, Fac Hlth Sci Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Tunceli, Turkiye; [Topcuoglu, Ceyhun] Munzur Univ, Fac Hlth Sci Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Tunceli, Turkiye								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001761293500001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Suzuki, Kenta; Mizoguchi, Yasuaki; Hasegawa, Seita; Saito, Koji; Yanase, Ko; Hall, Toby; Akasaka, Kiyokazu								Medial elbow joint space gap after 100 pitches and early multi-sport participation in high school baseball players: a randomized controlled trial								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2667726				2026	Objectives: To evaluate whether 100 consecutive pitches induce clinically meaningful increases in medial elbow joint space gap (MJS) in high school baseball players and to examine associations with player characteristics, including early multi-sport participation. Methods: In a randomized controlled trial, 34 healthy male high school baseball players were allocated to a pitching group (n = 17) or a control group (n = 17). The pitching group threw 100 fastballs at maximal effort, whereas controls rested for an equivalent duration. MJS was measured by ultrasonography before and after pitching or rest. The minimal clinically important difference (MCID) for MJS change (mm and %) was calculated using a distribution-based method (0.5 & times; SD of the pitching group's MJS increase). Group & times; time effects were tested using a two-way repeated-measures ANOVA, and univariate analyses explored relationships between MJS change and participant characteristics. Results: No significant group & times; time interaction was observed (p = 0.427). In the pitching group, MJS increased by 0.2 +/- 1.1 mm (8.3 +/- 24.6%), remaining below the MCID thresholds (0.55 mm; 12.3%). Early multi-sport experience during elementary school was associated with smaller MJS expansion (p = 0.009), and the number of non-baseball sports correlated negatively with MJS change (r = -0.628, p = 0.007). No associations were found with pitch velocity or body composition. Conclusion: A single bout of 100 pitches did not produce clinically meaningful MJS widening in high school baseball players. However, early multi-sport participation was related to reduced MJS expansion, suggesting that diversified sport experience may be an important background factor when refining pitch-count guidance.		[Suzuki, Kenta; Mizoguchi, Yasuaki; Hasegawa, Seita] Kimura Orthoped Clin, Dept Rehabil, 689-4 Harajima, Kumagaya, Saitama 3600811, Japan; [Mizoguchi, Yasuaki] Tokyo Univ Technol, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil, Phys Therapy, Tokyo, Japan; [Saito, Koji] Kitasato Univ, Grad Sch Med Sci, Phys Therapy Sports & Musculoskeletal Syst, Sagamihara, Japan; [Yanase, Ko] Doshisha Univ, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Hall, Toby] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, Perth, Australia; [Akasaka, Kiyokazu] Saitama Med Univ, Grad Sch Med, Saitama, Japan; [Suzuki, Kenta] Kimura Orthoped Clin, Dept Rehabil, 689-4 Harajima, Kumagaya, Saitama 3600811, Japan								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001761318600001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Onodera, Shunichi; Kawai, Toshinobu								Designing and overcoming challenges in the athlete development system for speed skating in the case of Canada								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261441430				2026	This embedded single-case study examined how senior organisational stakeholders in the Canadian speed skating systemdescribed the translation of long-term athlete development (LTAD) principles into organisational practice. Drawing onsemi-structured interviews with three high-information key stakeholders involved in LTAD development and implemen-tation-two of whom had extensive coaching experience at both regional club and national team levels-we re-examinedinterview transcripts using reflexive thematic analysis. To strengthen empirical grounding and enable triangulation con-sistent with case study standards, we added systematic document analysis of key organisational artefacts. Thefindingsshow how a generic national LTAD framework was culturally and sport-specifically adapted, embedded into organisa-tional structures, and iteratively refined through evaluative feedback. Four interrelated themes were generated: (1) cul-tural and sport-specific adaptation of LTAD, (2) organisational integration through coach education and multisportpathways, (3) systematising collaboration across stakeholders, and (4) evaluative feedback and iterative improvement.Together, these themes illustrate how LTAD moved from an abstract policy document to a speed skating-specific systemembedded in coaching qualifications, multisport education, and governance partnerships. Rather than treating policy-practice tensions as simple implementation failure, we interpret them as translation dynamics that require organisationallearning and ongoing adjustment. We conclude that effective athlete development systems require coordinated organisa-tional action, cultural adaptation, and sustained dialogue between federations, institutes and coaches, rather than relianceon policy documents alone. Thefindings offer practical insights for national governing bodies seeking to design or refineevidence-informed athlete development pathways.		[Onodera, Shunichi] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Onodera, Shunichi] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Kita, Japan; [Kawai, Toshinobu] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Onodera, Shunichi] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001760294000001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Binnekamp, Marijn; Scheltinga, Bouke L.; Wouda, Frank J.; Reenalda, Jasper								No extra sensors needed: estimating vertical ground reaction force using IMUs at the smartwatch and heartrate strap location								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2657897				2026	Understanding the factors contributing to running-related injuries is important, since such injuries are common among runners. Vertical ground reaction forces (vGRFs) can help quantify biomechanical load during running, but are typically measured using force plates in laboratory settings. To allow continuous monitoring outdoors, wearable sensors such as inertial measurement units (IMUs) may offer a practical alternative. These sensors are often also embedded in smartwatches and heart rate monitor belts. This study aimed to predict vGRF using IMUs placed on the wrist and sternum-mimicking smartwatch and heart rate strap positions-combined with smartwatch-derived variables. Eleven rearfoot strike runners completed twelve 90-s treadmill trials at four speeds (8, 10, 12, 14 km/h) and three cadences (preferred +/- 10%). IMUs captured 3D acceleration and angular velocity; pressure insoles provided vGRF estimates used for outdoor validation. Subsequently, participants ran outdoors on an athletics track at the same four speeds. A long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network was trained to predict vGRF from IMU data. Feature importance analysis showed the sternum IMU contributed most to prediction accuracy. Leave-one-subject-out cross-validation, using all features, yielded an RMSE of 0.10 +/- 0.024 body weight compared to indoor force plate measurements. Outdoor validation showed no significant performance drop. These results suggest that wearable devices enable meaningful vGRF monitoring during outdoor running.		[Binnekamp, Marijn; Scheltinga, Bouke L.; Wouda, Frank J.; Reenalda, Jasper] Univ Twente, Fac Elect Engn Math & Comp Sci EEMCS, Dept Biomed Signals & Syst, Enschede, Netherlands; [Binnekamp, Marijn] Univ Twente, Fac Elect Engn Math & Comp Sci EEMCS, Dept Biomed Signals & Syst, Enschede, Netherlands								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001799704200001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Farias, Claudio; Carniel, Eduardo; Ramos, Ana; Mesquita, Isabel								Coach professional pathways in elite Brazilian futsal: An ecological systems approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261445521				2026	Drawing on Ecological Systems Theory (EST), this study explores how elite Brazilian futsal coaches retrospectively interpret their professional pathways, attending to how influences operating at intrapersonal, interpersonal, organisational, and sociocultural levels are perceived and connected within their accounts. Using a qualitative, interpretive design, in-depth semi-structured interviews were conducted with ten coaches working in the top professional league of Brazilian futsal. Data were analysed using Reflexive Thematic Analysis, with EST employed as a heuristic framework to organise and interpret multi-level influences shaping coaches' pathways. The findings portray coaching pathways as negotiated and contingent processes, dynamically embedded within personal histories, relational networks, institutional arrangements, and broader sociocultural conditions. Coaches described strong reliance on self-directed learning and experiential knowledge, sustained through mentoring and peer networks, while simultaneously navigating ambiguous certification systems and regulatory constraints that influenced access, recognition, and professional mobility. This study highlights the value of ecological perspectives for understanding coaching pathways in elite sport contexts and underscores the need for more situated coach education frameworks that recognise diverse entry routes, relational learning processes, and the sociocultural conditions shaping professional progression.		[Farias, Claudio; Carniel, Eduardo; Ramos, Ana; Mesquita, Isabel] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Intervent & Innovat Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Farias, Claudio] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Intervent & Innovat Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001758732000001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Marcos-Rivero, Bingen; Becerril-Atxikallende, Irati; Barrenetxea-Garcia, Josu; Yanci, Javier								"When emotions take over, everything changes": An exploration of emotional regulation and competitive performance in pickleball: Perspectives of players and coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261444715				2026	Emotional regulation has been identified as one of the key factors in sport performance; however, qualitative research examining this construct in real competitive contexts remains limited, particularly in emerging sports such as pickleball. The aim of this study was to analyze pickleball players' and coaches' perceptions of the role of emotional regulation in competitive performance, decision-making, and the occurrence of errors, with particular attention to emotionally critical moments during matches and to emotional dynamics in doubles play. A qualitative study with a phenomenological hermeneutic approach was conducted. Sixty pickleball players and eight coaches participated, completing asynchronous online interviews in two phases. Data were analyzed using thematic analysis, resulting in three main categories: (1) emotional dynamics of the match; (2) emotion, decision-making, and error; and (3) emotional regulation and interpersonal dynamics. The results indicate that both players and coaches perceive emotions as fluctuating continuously throughout the match and intensifying at critical moments, directly influencing playing behavior, technical-tactical decisions, and the likelihood of committing errors. In addition, according to participants, in doubles play, the emotional dynamics between teammates and coach intervention emerge as key elements for emotional regulation and the maintenance of collective performance under pressure. These findings underscore the need to systematically integrate emotional regulation into competitive preparation in pickleball, considering both the individual and interpersonal processes involved in performance.		[Marcos-Rivero, Bingen] Univ Basque Country EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Phys Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Marcos-Rivero, Bingen; Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, AKTIBOki Res Grp Phys Act Exercise & Sport, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Marcos-Rivero, Bingen; Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Soc Sports & Phys Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Spain; [Becerril-Atxikallende, Irati] Univ Basque Country EHU, Bilbao Fac Educ, Dept Evolutionary Psychol & Educ, Leioa, Spain; [Barrenetxea-Garcia, Josu] Univ Deusto, Fac Educ & Sport, Donostia San Sebastian, Spain; [Marcos-Rivero, Bingen] Univ Basque Country EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Phys Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Marcos-Rivero, Bingen] Univ Basque Country EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, AKTIBOki Res Grp Phys Act Exercise & Sport, Vitoria 01007, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001758672600001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Cannizzaro, Keely; Fox, Jordan; Greenham, Grace; Chalmers, Samuel; Bennett, Hunter								Investigating the internal and external load output across different drill classifications in semi-elite male Australian football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261445255				2026	Player and training load is constantly monitored during most team sports training, especially in intense sports such as Australian Football (AF) to ensure players are not over or under training. However, limited research has explored how drill types can influence the internal and external load placed on athletes. This observational study explored how semi-elite male AF players' (n = 17) internal and external load output is influenced by different drill types. Participants completed preseason training sessions wearing Global Positioning Systems (GPS) and Heart Rate (HR) monitors and gave differential Ratings of Perceived Exertion (RPE) in relation to breathlessness (RPE-B) and leg-muscle exertion (RPE-M) at the conclusion of every drill. Data were analysed using linear mixed effects regression models, and pairwise comparisons between each drill type were conducted using Sidak's post hoc correction. Fundamental and ball movement drills elicited the lowest absolute and relative internal and external load values when compared to conditioning, small-sided games (SSG) and match simulation drills. Match simulation elicited the highest absolute external loads, excluding high speed running. Conditioning elicited the highest relative external and internal load outputs, excluding decelerations. Coaches should consider the type of drills they implement across the training week to ensure athletes are achieving the desired physiological adaptations, while also optimising preparation for competition.		[Cannizzaro, Keely; Fox, Jordan; Greenham, Grace; Chalmers, Samuel; Bennett, Hunter] Adelaide Univ, Sch Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide, Australia; [Cannizzaro, Keely; Fox, Jordan; Chalmers, Samuel; Bennett, Hunter] Adelaide Univ, Alliance Res Exercise Nutr & Act ARENA, Adelaide, Australia; [Greenham, Grace] Port Adelaide Football Club, Adelaide, Australia; [Cannizzaro, Keely] Adelaide Univ, Sch Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001758737200001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lee, Ye Hoon								Stress mindset and mental health in NCAA head coaches: The mediating role of resilience								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			1987	1999		10.1177/17479541261444151			AUG 2026	2026	Coaching college sports involves chronic stress exposure, but little is known about how stress-related beliefs are associated with coaches' psychological adaptation. Stress mindsets capture whether individuals view stress as enhancing or debilitating. This study conducted a cross-sectional survey to examine whether stress mindsets are associated with coaches' psychological outcomes (depressive symptoms and life satisfaction) indirectly through resilience. A sample of 235 NCAA head coaches across Division I, II, and III completed questionnaires asking about stress mindset, resilience, depressive symptoms, and life satisfaction, in order to capture both positive and negative psychological outcomes. A structural equation modeling technique was used to examine a theory-based mediation model derived from stress appraisal theory. Results indicated that a positive stress mindset was associated with higher resilience whereas a negative stress mindset was associated with lower resilience. Further, resilience was strongly associated with lower depressive symptoms and higher life satisfaction. Mediation analyses revealed significant indirect effects of positive stress mindsets on these psychological outcomes through resilience, whereas the indirect effects of negative stress mindset were marginal (p = .055 - .058). These findings extend stress appraisal theory to the coaching realm and identify resilience as a key psychological mechanism linking stress-related beliefs to coaches' psychological functioning.		[Lee, Ye Hoon] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Coll Culture & Technol, Div Global Sport Ind, Fac Off Bldg 104, Yongin 17035, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Lee, Ye Hoon] Univ Houston, Coll Educ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Houston, TX USA; [Lee, Ye Hoon] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Coll Culture & Technol, Div Global Sport Ind, Fac Off Bldg 104, Yongin 17035, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001758737300001	56	Article; Article		
J	Ausland, Adne; Solstad, Bard Erlend; Torstveit, Monica Klungland								Guided by trust and pushed past the limit: Retired elite female athletes' narrative accounts of coaching, voices and menstrual health								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261440230				2026	Coach-athlete relationships are central to athlete development, health, and performance in elite sport. This study explored how retired elite female athletes retrospectively narrate their coaching experiences, with attention to how these relationships intersected with female-specific health concerns, training autonomy, and psychological support. A biopsychosocial perspective informed the interview design, focusing on how physical, psychological, and social factors coalesce to shape athletes' experiences. Using a qualitative interview design and thematic narrative analysis, interviews were conducted with eight retired Norwegian elite female athletes. Participants reflected on relational dynamics across their careers, including trust, silence, vulnerability, and how topics such as menstrual health and low-energy availability were addressed or ignored, in their coaching environments. Two narrative trajectories were constructed. The first described relationships characterised by long-term trust, emotional availability, and openness to female-specific concerns, which supported athletes' willingness to share bodily cues and collaborate on adjustments. The second trajectory depicted more distant and rigid environments, where health-related concerns were overlooked, and athletes gradually learned to withhold concerns, often normalising silence as part of the high-performance culture. Across both trajectories, the narratives highlighted how coaching relationships shape athletes' sense of safety, autonomy, and capacity to voice physical and psychological needs. The findings suggest that a female-informed relational approach (brief state checks, explicit validation, and proportionate adjustments) may help foster more open dialogue about body-related cues. These insights may support the continued development of coach education programmes that integrate biopsychosocial awareness to create more responsive and sustainable coaching environments for elite female athletes.		[Ausland, Adne; Solstad, Bard Erlend; Torstveit, Monica Klungland] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway; [Ausland, Adne] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001757440700001	56	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	MacDonald, L. A.; Parsonage, J.; Chalkley, D.; Webster, H.; Minahan, C. L.								An exploration into sprint-paddling technique in surfing: Perspectives from elite athletes, coaches and performance support practitioners								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2148	2160		10.1177/17479541251413086			AUG 2026	2026	This study aimed to explore the perspectives of elite surfing athletes, coaches, and performance support practitioners regarding sprint paddling technique, a critical aspect of high-performance surfing. Thematic analysis of semi-structured interviews revealed four major themes: (a) the paddle stroke, (b) the kick, (c) strength and mobility, and (d) body position on the surfboard. Concerning the paddle stroke, participants advocated for longer strokes to enhance forward propulsion, emphasising the importance of reach, hand entry, catch, pull and push phases, and hand exit, aligning with established front crawl swimming principles. The benefits of a forward-weighted body position and minimal trunk movement to optimise paddling efficiency were also highlighted. Moreover, participants unanimously stressed the significance of an explosive kick for generating speed, improving pitch, and enhancing confidence in challenging conditions. Perspectives also underscored the pivotal role of shoulder and core strength, back mobility, and their impact on stroke efficiency. These findings provide novel insights into paddling technique conceptualization within the high-performance surfing community and offer a valuable framework for enhancing surfing performance, advancing knowledge, and providing future applied research endeavours.		[MacDonald, L. A.; Parsonage, J.; Webster, H.; Minahan, C. L.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Griffith Sports Sci, Gold Coast, Australia; [MacDonald, L. A.; Webster, H.] Surfing Australia High Performance Ctr, Casuarina, Australia; [MacDonald, L. A.] Queensland Acad Sport, SPIKE Unit, Nathan, Australia; [MacDonald, L. A.; Minahan, C. L.] Australian Inst Sport, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Chalkley, D.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Banyo, Australia; [MacDonald, L. A.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Griffith Sports Sci, Gold Coast, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001757436300001	63	Article; Article		
J	Nunes, Nuno Andre; Braybrook, Kevin; Hilton, Sara								Coaching the women's game: A perspective on pedagogy, performance and coaching education								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261445840				2026	Women's football is experiencing unprecedented growth in participation, professionalism, and global visibility. Major tournaments, broadcasting deals, and expanding professional leagues have positioned the women's game as one of the fastest-growing sectors in world sport. However, the coaching, pedagogical, and performance frameworks underpinning practice have not evolved at the same pace. This article presents a scholarly perspective that critically examines how coaching, pedagogy, and performance design in women's football can be better aligned with the contextual realities of the game. Rather than offering a systematic review, the paper draws on conceptually relevant literature from coaching science, athlete development, and women's football research, alongside applied insight, to develop an integrated argument across key domains of coach education, learning environments, and performance practice. The article explores how these areas must shift from imitation of the men's game toward innovation driven by the physiological, psychological, and socio-cultural realities that shape how female players train, learn, and perform. In doing so, it advances a conceptual framework for rethinking coaching in women's football that emphasises relational pedagogy, representative task design, and context-specific performance understanding. It concludes with a call to action for governing bodies, researchers, and practitioners to embed gender-responsive, context-specific approaches and to strengthen the women's football-specific evidence base needed to support both coaches and players.		[Nunes, Nuno Andre; Braybrook, Kevin] Southampton Solent Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport, Southampton, England; [Hilton, Sara] Wrexham Univ, Fac Social & Life Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci Dept, Wrexham, Wales; [Nunes, Nuno Andre] Southampton Solent Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport, Southampton, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001757528600001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Vella, Lara; Carl, Johannes; Crotti, Matteo; Barnett, Lisa M.; Duncan, Michael								Grassroots football coaches' knowledge and perspectives of physical literacy to improve child wellbeing through community sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261443098				2026	Physical literacy (PL) is an emerging framework aimed at promoting children's holistic development through sport. Despite widespread recognition of the benefits of sport participation on physical, mental, and social wellbeing, the extent to which coaches understand and can foster PL remains unclear. Guided by constructivist and interpretivist paradigms, semi-structured interviews were conducted with 11 male football coaches in England, exploring their understanding of PL, barriers to its implementation, and its role in promoting holistic development. Reflexive thematic analysis revealed a predominant lack of knowledge of PL among coaches, with many associating it narrowly with physical skills and overlooking its cognitive, social, and affective dimensions. Nevertheless, coaches reported implicit use of PL-related practices aligned with child wellbeing, although explicit adoption of PL frameworks was limited by knowledge gaps and resource constraints. Findings suggest the need for targeted coach education to bridge theoretical and practical understandings of PL, enhancing coaches' capacity to promote wellbeing through community sport. Future research should focus on developing practical, accessible resources for coaches, exploring how governing bodies and sport organisations can collaborate and support PL integration through policy and training, and evaluating the long-term effects of PL-based coaching on children's sustained participation and holistic physical, mental, and social wellbeing.		[Vella, Lara; Carl, Johannes; Barnett, Lisa M.] Deakin Univ, Sch Hlth & Social Dev, Geelong, Australia; [Vella, Lara; Duncan, Michael] Coventry Univ, Ctr Phys Act Sport & Exercise Sci, Coventry, England; [Crotti, Matteo] Univ Bergamo, Dept Human & Social Sci, Bergamo, Italy; [Vella, Lara] Coventry Univ, Ctr Phys Act Sport & Exercise Sci, Coventry, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001757532900001	55	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kim, Siye; Kim, Daehwan; Ko, Yong Jae								The effect of congruity of sports brand collaboration on consumers' explicit and implicit attitudes and purchase intention: moderating role of need for uniqueness								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-10-2025-0542				2026	PurposeThe purpose of the study was twofold: (1) to examine the impact of the congruity of sports brand collaborations on consumers' explicit and implicit attitudes in conjunction with their need for uniqueness (NFU) and (2) to examine the relative effects of explicit and implicit attitudes on purchase intention.Design/methodology/approachThe study employed a 3 (congruity: low vs. moderate vs. high) & times; 3 (brand: Nike vs. Asics vs. Converse) mixed factorial experimental design. Participants watched the manipulated stimulus, then completed a single target implicit association test (ST-IAT) and a questionnaire measuring explicit attitude, purchase intention, and NFU.FindingsThe results revealed no significant differences in explicit and implicit attitudes across congruity levels. However, the "high-NFU" group showed a more positive explicit attitude when collaboration is highly congruent. The implicit attitude was positively related to the explicit attitude, while the explicit attitude was positively related to purchase intention.Originality/valueThis study integrated schema congruity theory and the associative-propositional evaluation model to elucidate the differential impact of incongruity on consumers' dual attitudes, establishing theoretical originality by demonstrating the sequential linkage between implicit and explicit processing.		[Kim, Siye] Pukyong Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Daeyeon Campus, Busan, South Korea; [Kim, Daehwan] Pukyong Natl Univ, Dept Marine Sports, Daeyeon Campus, Busan, South Korea; [Ko, Yong Jae] Univ Florida, Gainesville, FL USA; [Kim, Daehwan] Pukyong Natl Univ, Dept Marine Sports, Daeyeon Campus, Busan, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001756483700001	47	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Baghurst, Timothy; Quick, Simon; Griffin, Adrian								Experiences and barriers to career advancement among minority assistant coaches in the National Basketball Association								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261446935				2026	The National Basketball Association (NBA) is a high-performance environment characterized by global visibility and a demanding culture that often leads to significant professional and personal stress for its coaching staff. While the league is celebrated for its player diversity, leadership roles in coaching and management remain disproportionately held by White males. Guided by Critical Race Theory (CRT) as a theoretical framework, this study employed semi-structured interviews to investigate the career advancement experiences and perceived barriers faced by 11 minority assistant coaches in the NBA. Data were analyzed through reflexive thematic analysis and four primary themes were developed: (a) Inequity and the "Moving Goalpost" of Career Advancement, where social capital and new gatekeeping mechanisms such as analytics-based language often hinder upward mobility; (b) Being Stereotyped and Emotional Suppression, requiring coaches to engage in hyper-vigilance and suppress frustration to avoid labels such as the "angry Black man"; (c) Role Entrapment and the "Watchdog" Narrative, where participants felt pigeonholed into relational or player-management roles rather than tactical leadership positions; and (d) The Burden of Representation ("Healthy Pressure"), which was characterized by an internalized responsibility to succeed as a trailblazer for other minority coaches. These findings highlight the ongoing impact of race on individuals' experiences and the scarcity of legitimate leadership roles within the NBA. Recommendations include structural changes, such as transparent hiring criteria and intentional mentorship, that foster more equitable leadership pathways in professional sport.		[Baghurst, Timothy] Florida State Univ, Coll Educ Hlth & Human Sci, Ctr Athlet Coaching, Stone Bldg, Tallahassee, FL 32312 USA; [Quick, Simon] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Griffin, Adrian] Natl Basketball Assoc, New York, NY USA; [Baghurst, Timothy] Florida State Univ, Coll Educ Hlth & Human Sci, Ctr Athlet Coaching, Stone Bldg, Tallahassee, FL 32312 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001756494100001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hollis, Leah P.; Oaxaca, Gala Campos								Perilous games: Gendered moral disengagement, winning culture, and COVID-19 safety in NCAA division I athletics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261445526				2026	Building on international research, which applies moral disengagement theory in sport, this study examined NCAA Division I coaches' adherence to COVID-19 safety recommendations in the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC) Medical Sport Playbook. These protocols included social distancing, sanitation, personal protective equipment (PPE), pre-participation exams, and daily screening. Coaches (n = 179) across 29 sports completed a survey regarding compliance with this guidance. The following research questions guided the analysis: RQ1: What is the relationship between win/loss records and compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols? H1: Teams with sustained winning records (>= 80% win rate) were expected to demonstrate higher compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols. RQ2: What is the relationship between team gender and compliance with these protocols? H2: Women's teams were expected to demonstrate greater compliance with COVID-19 protocols. Guided by Bandura's moral disengagement theory, we explored how competitive pressure and coaching identity may rationalize noncompliance with public health mandates. Regression analyses revealed that teams with higher win rates were significantly less likely to comply with sanitation and daily screening protocols, while women's teams demonstrated significantly greater adherence to social distancing. Compliance with PPE use and pre-participation exams was inconsistent across all teams. Overall, high-performance programs were less likely to follow COVID-19 safety protocols, highlighting the influence of moral disengagement, gendered expectations, and performance culture on health-related decision-making. These findings extend understanding of how performance culture, moral disengagement, and gendered leadership norms influence health compliance in elite sport environments worldwide.		[Hollis, Leah P.] Penn State Univ, Educ Policy Studies, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [Oaxaca, Gala Campos] Cornell Univ, Robert Frederick Smith Sch Chem & Biomol Engn, Ithaca, NY USA; [Hollis, Leah P.] Penn State Univ, Educ Policy Studies, University Pk, PA 16802 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001756491200001	62	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Li, Feng; Carey, David L.; Barrera-Dominguez, Francisco J.; Deng, Yangchao; Xu, Xiaofei; Gomez Ruano, Miguel Angel								Do advanced metrics redefine the role of foreign players? A positional breakdown of domestic vs. foreign players in the Chinese Basketball Association								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261447345				2026	Unlike the NBA or EuroLeague, the Chinese Basketball Association (CBA) limits foreign player registration and playing time. This study quantified how these constraints shape positional performance profiles, identifying the key metrics that distinguish domestic from foreign players across positions. Data from 10,423 player-game observations during the 2023-2024 CBA season were analyzed. Performance was evaluated using multidimensional metrics, including box-score, minute-based, contribution-based, and efficiency-based indicators. Multi-level generalized linear models (Poisson/Negative Binomial) and Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) were employed to quantify performance disparities and classification accuracy. Foreign players exhibited significantly higher rate ratios (RR) in nearly all scoring and rebounding categories (all p < 0.005). LDA models achieved exceptional classification accuracy (0.73-0.98), with Efficiency-based (EBM) and Minute-based (MBM) metrics demonstrating superior discriminatory capacity. While scoring volume and usage rate were primary discriminators, distinct positional profiles emerged: foreign guards and forwards were characterized by high-risk playmaking (AST%, TOV_min), multi-level scoring (FTM_min, 2PMs_min), and significant defensive rebounding (DRB_min, DefReb%), while centers were exclusively defined by defensive rebounding dominance. Notably, no significant differences were found in 3-point variables for front players (p > 0.05), reflecting a persistent "traditional" tactical role for big men in the CBA that contrasts with the "space-and-pace" evolution in modern basketball. The performance gap in the CBA is systematically tied to the "high-usage" roles assigned to foreign players. Coaches and managers should prioritize versatile "impact makers" with high efficiency and ball security during recruitment. Furthermore, the findings highlight a critical need for targeted training interventions to enhance the interior finishing, rebounding, playmaking, and tactical versatility of domestic players. Bridging these positional skill gaps is essential to reduce over-reliance on foreign individuals and to align the CBA with the evolution of modern international basketball. These findings may also inform evidence-based player selection for the Chinese national team.		[Li, Feng; Deng, Yangchao; Xu, Xiaofei] Beijing Sport Univ, Int Joint Lab High Performance Sports Res, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Feng; Deng, Yangchao; Xu, Xiaofei] Beijing Sport Univ, Beijing Sports Nutr Engn Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Carey, David L.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Barrera-Dominguez, Francisco J.] Univ Huelva, Fac Educ Psychol & Sport Sci, COIDESO, Huelva, Spain; [Gomez Ruano, Miguel Angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte, Madrid, Spain; [Xu, Xiaofei] Beijing Sport Univ, Int Joint Lab High Performance Sports Res, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Xu, Xiaofei] Beijing Sport Univ, Beijing Sports Nutr Engn Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001756684400001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kaminski, Jan; Pizzera, Alexandra; Schobersberger, Wolfgang; Blank, Cornelia; Wolfarth, Bernd; Bendau, Antonia; Strohle, Andreas								German translation and validation of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Sport Mental Health Assessment Tool 1 (SMHAT-1) and Sport Mental Health Recognition Tool 1 (SMHRT-1)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261443292				2026	Mental health, particularly the early detection of psychological distress among elite athletes, is of critical importance. To make the Sport Mental Health Assessment Tool 1 (SMHAT-1) and the Sport Mental Health Recognition Tool 1 (SMHRT-1) available for German-speaking populations, this study aimed to translate and validate the screening instruments of the SMHAT-1 and the SMHRT-1 into German, as well as to evaluate the psychometric properties of the screening instruments. The SMHAT-1 screening instruments and the SMHRT-1 handout were translated using a systematic seven-step process. Forward translations were performed by native speakers of the target language (German) fluent in the source language (English), followed by back-translations by native speakers of English fluent in German. Validation occurred in three phases: a pilot test with 30 athletes to assess clarity, preliminary psychometric testing with 177 bilingual participants to evaluate criterion equivalence, and full psychometric testing with 235 athletes from regional to Olympic levels. Reliability, construct, and criterion validity were assessed. Internal consistency was acceptable to good for most tools, and all instruments demonstrated strong equivalence with their original versions. The Athlete Psychological Strain Questionnaire (APSQ) exhibited strong convergent validity with the Kessler Psychological Distress Scale (K-10; r = 0.81) and all participants with a self-reported professionally diagnosed mental disorder had APSQ scores above the screening threshold. Prevalence rates highlighted common mental health concerns in athletes, including anxiety (17.0%), depression (23.8%), and disordered eating (36.1%). The German SMHAT-1 demonstrated robust psychometric properties and is a reliable tool for assessing mental health in athletes.The German and English versions of the SMHAT-1 and SMHRT-1 are available for download here: SMHAT-1 German: https://img.olympics.com/images/image/private/w_auto/primary/hr8i8nfbwf8gldsthqgd SMHAT-1 English: https://img.olympics.com/images/image/private/w_auto/primary/ttpbrdzvhofmabszbynq SMHRT-1 German: https://www.olympics.com/athlete365/app/uploads/2021/06/SMHRT-1_german.pdf SMHRT-1 English: https://www.olympics.com/athlete365/app/uploads/2021/06/BJSM-SMHRT-1-Athlete365-2020-102411.pdf		[Kaminski, Jan; Bendau, Antonia; Strohle, Andreas] Charite Univ Med Berlin, Dept Psychiat & Neurosci CCM, Berlin, Germany; [Kaminski, Jan; Wolfarth, Bernd; Bendau, Antonia; Strohle, Andreas] Free Univ Berlin, Charitepl 1, D-10117 Berlin, Germany; [Kaminski, Jan; Wolfarth, Bernd; Bendau, Antonia; Strohle, Andreas] Humboldt Univ, Berlin, Germany; [Kaminski, Jan; Pizzera, Alexandra] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Psychol, Cologne, Germany; [Schobersberger, Wolfgang] Tirol Kliniken Innsbruck, Univ Hosp, Innsbruck, Austria; [Schobersberger, Wolfgang; Blank, Cornelia] UMIT TIROL Private Univ Hlth Sci & Hlth Technol, Hall In Tirol, Austria; [Blank, Cornelia] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Wolfarth, Bernd] Charite Univ Med Berlin, Dept Sports Med CCM, Berlin, Germany; [Bendau, Antonia] HMU Hlth & Med Univ Potsdam, Inst Mental Hlth & Behav Med, Dept Psychol, Potsdam, Germany; [Strohle, Andreas] Free Univ Berlin, Charitepl 1, D-10117 Berlin, Germany; [Strohle, Andreas] Charite Univ Med Berlin, Charitepl 1, D-10117 Berlin, Germany; [Strohle, Andreas] Humboldt Univ, Dept Psychiat & Neurosci CCM, Charitepl 1, D-10117 Berlin, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001756294700001	50	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ramanan, Akash Gangadharan Nair; Phatak, Ashwin; Mehta, Saumya; Memmert, Daniel; McRobert, Allistair; Jamil, Mikael								Match analysis trends in limited overs professional cricket: A systematic review of technical and tactical performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2564	2586		10.1177/17479541261439184			AUG 2026	2026	The rise of data-driven analytics has created opportunities to understand cricket's technical and tactical dynamics more comprehensively with additional context. The aim of this review was to provide a greater understanding of technical and tactical performance in cricket and highlight consistent trends and contradictions across studies. Following PRISMA guidelines, a systematic search was conducted across five databases - Google Scholar, Web of Science, Scopus, Sport Discus, and PubMed. Forty-seven (n = 47) studies published between 2007 and 2024 met the inclusion criteria. Methodological quality was assessed using a 13-item checklist and inter-rater reliability was verified using Cohen's K. The mean methodological quality of included studies was 81%, with 77% rated excellent. Research predominantly addressed men's cricket, with only three studies involving female players. Research trends indicated increasing integration of contextual and advanced statistical models, improved quantification of performance metrics in all the domains, and emerging attention to pressure and situational variables. This review also highlights several technical and tactical performance aspects that batters, bowlers and fielders can use to become more effective, whilst other practitioners could use them to aid recruitment decisions and inform coaching practice moving forward. Despite growing analytical sophistication, research-practice integration appears to remain limited.		[Ramanan, Akash Gangadharan Nair] Otto Von Guericke Univ, Social Sci & Educ Inst Sport Sci 3, Magdeburg, Germany; [Phatak, Ashwin; Mehta, Saumya; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Training & Comp Sci Sport, Cologne, Germany; [McRobert, Allistair] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Jamil, Mikael] Univ Suffolk, Sch Hlth Sci & Soc, Ipswich, England; [Jamil, Mikael] Univ Suffolk, Digital Futures Inst, Ipswich, England; [Jamil, Mikael] Univ Suffolk, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Ipswich, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001756354300001	72	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Yanfei; Li, Guanxiong; Wang, Jin; Liu, Guorui								Light Exposure, Physical Activity, and Sleep Duration: Evidence of Nonlinear Associations and Interactive Effects in a Large UK Biobank Cohort								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2663969				2026	This study aimed to examine the independent and interactive effects of light exposure duration and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) on sleep duration, and to explore the potential non-linear characteristics of these relationships. Data were drawn from the UK Biobank, including a total of 100,021 adults. Objectively measured variables of daily light exposure, physical activity, and sleep duration were extracted. After adjusting for age, sex, smoking status, alcohol drinker status, and body mass index (BMI), multiple linear regression models were used to assess their associations. Interaction terms were added to examine potential synergistic effects between light exposure and physical activity. Segmented regression analysis, implemented in Python, was used to identify non-linear breakpoints in these relationships. Light exposure was significantly negatively associated with sleep duration (unstandardized B = -0.617, p < .001), as was MVPA time (unstandardized B = -0.636, p < .001). However, their interaction showed a significant positive effect (unstandardized B = 0.342, p < .001). Segmented regression identified two critical thresholds in the relationship between light exposure and sleep duration, and between MVPA and sleep.Both light exposure and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity significantly influence sleep duration.		[Zhang, Yanfei; Li, Guanxiong; Liu, Guorui] Naval Med Univ, Affiliated Hosp 2, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jin] 908th Hosp Joint Logist Support Force, Nanchang, Peoples R China; [Liu, Guorui] 905 Hosp PLA Navy, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liu, Guorui] 905 Hosp PLA Navy, Dept Med Psychol, 1328 HuaShan Rd, Shanghai 200052, Peoples R China; [Liu, Guorui] 905 Hosp PLA Navy, Dept Med Psychol, 1328 HuaShan Rd, Shanghai 200052, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001757584700001	26	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tsai, Yi-Ju; Tsai, Liang-Ching; Sprague, Peter; Lyle, Mark A.								Limb underloading and reduced functional use of the knee during the squat is linked to reduced jumping performance in athletes six months after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				79						101924	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101924			MAY 2026	2026	Objectives: Examine between-limb kinetic asymmetries during the ascent phase of the squat and countermovement jump (CMJ) in athletes 6 months post-anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Determine whether squatting mechanics are associated with jumping mechanics and performance. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Twenty-two athletes (14-26 years), six months post-ACLR. Main outcome measures: Average vertical ground reaction force (vGRF), hip and knee extensor moments, hip/ knee moment ratios, and limb symmetry indices (LSIs) during the ascent phase of squatting and CMJ and jump height and reactive strength index. Results: ACLR limbs demonstrated lower knee extensor moments and vGRF, and higher hip/knee moment ratios during squat and jump ascent. LSIs for vGRF and knee extensor moment, along with the hip/knee moment ratio of the ACLR limb, were moderately-strongly correlated across squatting and jumping (r = 0.473-0.683; p < 0.05). Greater hip extensor moments and hip/knee moment ratios in both limbs were associated with poorer jump performance (r =-0.433 to-0.614; p < 0.05). Conclusions: Squat kinetic asymmetries were associated with asymmetries in CMJ mechanics, while hip-dominant squat mechanics were associated with poorer jump performance. Physical therapy should counter hip-overreliance strategies by increasing functional use of the ACLR knee to support return to sport readiness.		[Tsai, Yi-Ju] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Coll Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Tainan, Taiwan; [Tsai, Yi-Ju] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Allied Hlth Sci, Coll Med, Tainan, Taiwan; [Tsai, Yi-Ju] Natl Cheng Kung Univ Hosp, Phys Therapy Ctr, Tainan, Taiwan; [Tsai, Liang-Ching] Georgia State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Atlanta, GA USA; [Sprague, Peter; Lyle, Mark A.] Emory Univ, Ctr Phys Therapy & Movement Sci, Dept Rehabil Med, Div Phys Therapy,Sch Med, Atlanta, GA 30322 USA; [Lyle, Mark A.] Emory Univ, Ctr Phys Therapy & Movement Sci, Dept Rehabil Med, Div Phys Therapy,Sch Med, Atlanta, GA 30322 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001756915000001	43	Article; Article		
J	Xu, Menghan; Chen, Peng; Nam, Hyeri; Zhan, Jianglong; Yu, Zhongqi; Guo, Chaoyu; Le, Van Minh; Wang, Lin								Association between sensorimotor function and lower limb biomechanics during a single-leg forward hop in athletes after ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				79						101923	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101923			MAY 2026	2026	Objectives: To compare sensorimotor function and single-leg forward hop biomechanics between return-to-sport (RTS)-cleared athletes after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) and healthy controls, and to examine sensorimotor-biomechanics associations in ACLR. Design: Cross-sectional laboratory study; paired/independent t tests and Pearson correlations. Setting: Human movement biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Twenty-four athletes after ACL reconstruction (mean time since surgery: 19.7 +/- 6.8 months) who had been cleared for return to sport (RTS), and twenty-four healthy controls. Main outcome measures: Knee strength limb symmetry index (LSI), joint position sense absolute error (30(degrees) and 60(degrees)), and quadriceps/hamstrings force-sense error assessed using an isokinetic dynamometer, as well as hop-landing kinematics and kinetics assessed using a three-dimensional motion-capture system and force plate. Results: Compared with controls, ACLR athletes showed greater quadriceps force-sense error (P = 0.011). The involved limb demonstrated lower peak knee flexion, knee flexion moment, and knee flexion power, and greater knee internal rotation angle than the uninvolved limb and controls (P < 0.0167). In the ACLR group, hamstring force-sense error was correlated with greater knee valgus angle (r = 0.670) and lower knee flexion moment (r =-0.445), quadriceps LSI was correlated with greater knee flexion moment (r = 0.559) and lower knee internal rotation power (r =-0.532), and hamstrings LSI was correlated with lower knee valgus angle (r =-0.479). Conclusions: Residual sensorimotor deficits persist after RTS clearance and are associated with landing biomechanics, supporting inclusion of sensorimotor testing in RTS evaluation.		[Xu, Menghan; Chen, Peng; Nam, Hyeri; Zhan, Jianglong; Yu, Zhongqi; Guo, Chaoyu; Le, Van Minh] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Chen, Peng] Wuhan Sports Univ, Wuhan 430079, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lin] Shanghai Univ Sport, Ctr Sports Med & Rehabil, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lin] Shanghai Shangti Orthopaed Hosp, Shanghai 200082, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lin] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, 650 Qingyuan Huan Rd, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lin] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, 650 Qingyuan Huan Rd, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001755519600001	55	Article; Article		
J	Simms, Tayla; Dobbin, Nick								Data collection and utilisation in sports physiotherapy practice: A qualitative study of UK sport physiotherapists								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				79						101922	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101922			MAY 2026	2026	Objective: To describe what athlete-focused data physiotherapists in sport collect, how these data are used, and the role data plays in athlete management. Design: Qualitative study. Setting: In-person or online semi-structured interviews. Participants: Ten UK-based physiotherapists, each with at least one full season of sport experience, participated in the study. Main outcome measures: Transcripts were analysed using codebook thematic analysis with inductive and deductive coding to generate themes. Results: Four themes were identified: (1) what athlete-focused data are collected, when they are collected, and factors influencing data use; (2) how data are used; (3) physiotherapists' understanding of data; and (4) data sharing practices. Athlete-focused data were routinely used to support clinical decision making, particularly during rehabilitation and return-to-play. Data collection was shaped by time constraints, staffing, and technology access, often interrelated. While understanding of data was viewed as essential, limited attention was given to accuracy, reliability, and validity, and data were widely shared among stakeholders, sometimes beyond their intended purpose. Conclusion: Physiotherapists in sport routinely use a wide range of athlete-focused data to guide clinical decisions in athlete management, rehabilitation, and return-to-play. Limited attention to data quality highlights the need for targeted training to support safe, effective data use in sport.		[Simms, Tayla; Dobbin, Nick] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Fac Hlth & Educ, Dept Hlth Profess, Manchester, England; [Dobbin, Nick] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Fac Hlth & Educ, Dept Hlth Profess, Manchester, England								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001745922200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Bilgi, Bayram; Bayrak, Arife Akbulut; Beyhan, Hidayet; Duzgun, Irem								"Training load and functional performance associated with non-contact upper extremity injuries in overhead athletes: A kinetic chain based prospective cohort study"								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				79						101919	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101919			MAY 2026	2026	Objective: To examine the association between preseason kinetic chain-related postural alignment, neuromuscular control and functional performance and non-contact upper extremity injuries in overhead athletes. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Field-based preseason screening with in-season injury surveillance. Participants: 143 overhead athletes from 11 teams. Main outcome measures: Preseason assessments comprised spinal postural alignment, shoulder range of motion, the Closed Kinetic Chain Upper Extremity Stability Test (CKCUEST), the Single-Leg Squat Test (SLST) and weekly training volume. Non-contact upper extremity injuries were recorded throughout the season. Methods: Group comparisons used parametric and non-parametric tests; independent variables were identified with multivariable logistic regression. Results: Forty-five athletes (31.5%) sustained an upper extremity injury, 73.3% non-contact. Higher weekly training volume (OR 1.20, 95% CI 1.03-1.40), lower CKCUEST performance (OR 0.86, 95% CI 0.76-0.98) and poorer SLST performance (good vs. poor: OR 0.08, 95% CI 0.010-0.622; moderate vs. poor: OR 0.17, 95% CI 0.047-0.596) were independently associated with risk. Sex, shoulder rotational asymmetry and static spinal alignment were not. Conclusions: Non-contact upper extremity injuries are linked to modifiable kinetic chain factors. Integrating CKCUEST and SLST with training-load monitoring into preseason screening may improve early risk identification.		[Bilgi, Bayram; Bayrak, Arife Akbulut] Ankara Yildirim Beyazit Univ, Hlth Sci Fac, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, TR-06760 Ankara, Turkiye; [Beyhan, Hidayet] Bitlis Eren Univ, Fac Econ & Adm Sci, Dept Business Adm, TR-13000 Bitlis, Turkiye; [Duzgun, Irem] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Phys Therapy & Rehabil, TR-06100 Ankara, Turkiye; [Bilgi, Bayram] Ankara Yildirim Beyazit Univ, Hlth Sci Fac, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, TR-06760 Ankara, Turkiye								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001745619800001	42	Article; Article		
J	Avkhimovich, Nikolai								Do the Coaches Adapt to Tournament Importance? Strategic Choice of Starting Squads in National Football Teams								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	4			446	477		10.1177/15270025261436353			MAY 2026	2026	The paper examines coaches' strategic choices in selecting starting squads of national football teams for tournaments with different levels of importance. Building on age-related human development, resilience, and team diversity theories, it empirically studies several regression models of coaches' strategic choices regarding the starting squad's average age and age diversity. Using match-level data from 32 European national football teams and more than 3,000 matches from 2014-2023, the analysis covers different competitions: friendly matches, continental championships (the UEFA EURO), and the FIFA World Cup. The results show that coaches have differentiated strategies for the starting squad's average age across tournaments with different importance. The average age of the starting squad for the final and qualification stages of the FIFA World Cup and UEFA EURO, the most important tournaments, is up to 0.8 years higher than for a friendly match. The paper also shows that the age diversity of the starting squad varies depending on the tournament the national team participates in, being 4-6% higher for the final stages of the FIFA World Cup and UEFA EURO compared with friendly matches. However, none of the age-related parameters lead to a significant improvement in the probability of winning an individual match. Such an effect could be explained by coaches' perceived importance, as well as coaches' anchoring toward more experienced players.		[Avkhimovich, Nikolai] HSE Univ, Moscow, Russia; [Avkhimovich, Nikolai] HSE Univ, Fac Econ Sci, Myasnitskaya St 20, Moscow, Russia								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001732947600004	87	Article; Article		
J	O'Brien, Michael J. M.; King, Matthew G.; Munro, David; Coonan, Alesha; O'Shea, Tomas; Grabinski, Rafal; Kemp, Joanne L.; Ganderton, Charlotte								The relationship between hip joint morphology and hip range of motion in circus performers with hip-related pain - A Cross-sectional Study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				79						101917	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101917			MAY 2026	2026	Objective: To assess the relationship between hip joint morphology and hip range of motion (ROM) in circus performers with hip-related pain. Study design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Circus arts training facility. Participants: Adult student circus artists with hip-related pain (19 females, 11 males, age: 22 +/- 3.4). Main outcome measures: The association between radiographic measures and ROM assessment was investigated using linear regression models controlling for age and sex. Results: Thirty circus performers were included. A higher neck-shaft angle was associated with more external rotation ROM in prone (beta 0.69, 95%CI 0.13, 1.26), and more external rotation ROM in sitting (beta 0.68, 95%CI 0.10, 1.26). A higher alpha angle was associated with more hip flexion ROM (beta 0.35, 95%CI 0.03, 0.67) with a main effect of sex (F =-12.25, p = 0.032). Conclusion: The association between hip morphology and ROM may be unique in circus artists with hip-related pain, with neck-shaft angle and alpha angle showing an association with hip external rotation ROM and hip flexion ROM, respectively.		[O'Brien, Michael J. M.; Kemp, Joanne L.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [King, Matthew G.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Discipline Physiotherapy, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Munro, David] Natl Inst Circus Arts, Prahran, Vic 3181, Australia; [Ganderton, Charlotte] RMIT Univ, Sch Hlth & Biomed Sci, Bundoora, Vic 3083, Australia; [Ganderton, Charlotte] Shanghai Univ Hlth & Med Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [O'Brien, Michael J. M.; Coonan, Alesha] Melbourne Orthopaed Grp Sports Med, Windsor, Vic 3181, Australia; [O'Shea, Tomas; Grabinski, Rafal] Victoria House Med Imaging, South Yarra, Vic 3141, Australia; [O'Brien, Michael J. M.] La Trobe Univ, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Plenty Rd, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [O'Brien, Michael J. M.] La Trobe Univ, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Plenty Rd, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001738104400001	33	Article; Article		
J	O'Connor, Ciaran; Coyle, Eddie; Mc Intyre, Martin; Delahunt, Eamonn; Thorborg, Kristian								Hip adduction and abduction strength recovery in senior male rugby union players during a full training and match week								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				79						101915	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101915			MAY 2026	2026	Objectives: To report hip adduction and abduction strength recovery of rugby players during a full training and match-week, and to examine the relationship between session load, daily hip/groin pain, and provoked groin pain, on changes in hip strength. Design: Repeated measures design. Setting: Training facility. Participants: 32 male rugby players. Main outcome measures: Hip adduction, abduction, and adduction:abduction strength ratio measured using a ForceFrame at select timepoints throughout an 8-day period. Results: Time demonstrated a non-significant main effect on strength, with no significant changes evident posttraining. Post-hoc analysis revealed a significant decrease (p = 0.003, 0.49Nm/kg, 23%) in adduction strength (1.67 f 0.45Nm/kg) immediately post-match compared to baseline (2.17 f 0.51Nm/kg), with a 13% decrease evident 48-h post-match (1.89 f 0.25Nm/kg), before returning to baseline 96-h post-match (2.04 f 0.57Nm/ kg). Similarly, post-match hip adduction:abduction strength ratio (0.84 f 0.19) was significantly lower (p = 0.006, mean difference 0.16, 20%) immediately post-match compared to both baseline (1.03 f 0.23) and 48-h post-match (0.97 f 0.25). Session load demonstrated a moderate-to-good relationship (Pearson's r = 0.60) with changes in adduction strength, and a fair relationship with changes in abduction strength (r = 0.31), and hip adduction:abduction strength ratio (r = 0.43). Conclusions: Rugby players may benefit from more than 48-h recovery after match play, in an effort to restore baseline hip adduction strength, whereas training sessions during match-week do not seem to affect any strength measures.		[O'Connor, Ciaran] ATU Sligo, Dept Hlth & Nutr Sci, Sligo, Ireland; [Coyle, Eddie] Technol Univ Shannon, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Westmeath, Ireland; [Mc Intyre, Martin] Sports Injuries & Sport Med Clin, Castlebar, Co Mayo, Ireland; [Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; [Thorborg, Kristian] Univ Copenhagen, Amager Hvidovre Hosp, Sports Orthopaed Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Dept Orthopaed Surg,Inst Clin Med, Copenhagen, Denmark								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001738984600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Gustafsson, Timmy; Hermansen, Anna; Faltstrom, Anne; Sonesson, Sofi								From setback to comeback: key insights for a successful return to sport after a second anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: a qualitative study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				79						101905	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101905			MAY 2026	2026	Objectives: To explore athletes' experiences, thoughts, and behaviors during the final phase of rehabilitation-transition from supervised to unrestricted rehabilitation and return to sport (RTS)-after a second anterior cruciate ligament reconstrcution (ACLR), and the strategies used to prevent reinjury at this phase of rehabilitation. Design: Qualitative descriptive study. Settings: Competitive team ball sports. Participants: Sixteen athletes (8 females, 18-30 years) who had RTS after their second ACLR. Main outcome measures: Individual semi-structured interviews were conducted. Conventional content analysis generated categories capturing athletes' experiences. Results: Three main categories emerged: Safe reintegration into sports after the second ACLR, describing need for structured progression, sport-specific training and long-term injury prevention; Navigating physical and psychological readiness to return to sport, highlighting fluctuating confidence, fear of reinjury, and strategies to rebuild trust in the knee; and Unified approach to return to sport, emphasizing collaboration with physiotherapists and coaches, and athletes' increased self-awareness following their first ACLR rehabilitation. Conclusion: Athletes adopted a more cautious, informed, and prevention-focused approach during their second ACLR rehabilitation, drawing on lessons from their first injury. Integrating psychological readiness with physical recovery, promoting communication between athletes, physiotherapists, and coaches, and emphazising injury prevention may enhance RTS outcomes after a second ACLR.		[Gustafsson, Timmy; Hermansen, Anna; Faltstrom, Anne; Sonesson, Sofi] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping, Sweden; [Faltstrom, Anne] Ryhov Cty Hosp, Rehabil Ctr, Reg Jonkoping Cty, Jonkoping, Jonkoping, Sweden; [Gustafsson, Timmy] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping, Sweden								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001712422100001	42	Article; Article		
J	Byrne, Damien; Blake, Catherine; Lodge, Clare; O'Keeffe, Mary; McEvoy, Dee; Matthews, James; van Dyk, Nicol								Injury screening practices and risk perceptions in intercounty Gaelic Games in Ireland: A cross-sectional survey of players, coaches, and medical staff								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2137	2147		10.1177/17479541261421589			AUG 2026	2026	The aim of this study was to investigate current injury screening practices and injury risk perceptions among medical staff, coaches, and players in elite Gaelic Games. A cross-sectional online survey of elite Gaelic Games stakeholders was used, that included sections on participants' demographics, and injury risk perceptions; medical staff also completed an individual injury risk assessment section. Medical staff (n=19), coaches (n=22), and players (n=244) were recruited using a multipronged sampling approach. Over half (53%, n=10) of medical staff implemented individualised injury risk assessments; all used maximal strength tests. Most participants (77%, n=218) believed it was possible to identify through screening players at a higher risk of sustaining a musculoskeletal injury, although both the value and limitations of injury screening tests were highlighted. Stakeholders identified previous injury, sleep, and wellness scores as important intrinsic risk factors. Training load, fixture congestion, and internal communication were identified as extrinsic risk factors. This study highlights the absence of standardised injury screening protocols across elite Gaelic Games, with current approaches implemented inconsistently, and little agreement on the most effective strategies to identify high-risk players. These findings highlight the need for a more coordinated and collaborative injury risk management approach that considers the views and experiences of player, coaches, and medical staff, within the unique context and demands of amateur elite Gaelic Games.		[Byrne, Damien; Blake, Catherine; O'Keeffe, Mary; McEvoy, Dee; Matthews, James; van Dyk, Nicol] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sport Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Byrne, Damien; Lodge, Clare] South East Technol Univ, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Carlow, Ireland; [Byrne, Damien] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sport Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Byrne, Damien] South East Technol Univ, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Carlow, Ireland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001753972500001	53	Article; Article		
J	Amaro, Maria; Molontay, Roland								From Beijing to Paris: Media representation and sentiment dynamics of the Olympics and Paralympics across traditional and social platforms (2008-2024)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261435444				2026	This study examines the sentiment dynamics and media representation of the Olympics and Paralympics across five Olympic cycles (Beijing 2008 to Paris 2024), drawing on data from both traditional media (The New York Times and The Guardian) and social media platforms (YouTube and Reddit). In total, 37,898 news articles and 87,098 pieces of social media content related to the Olympics were analyzed, alongside 3,804 articles and 17,500 social media entries concerning the Paralympics. Sentiment analysis was conducted using a fine-tuned RoBERTa model, and non-relevant content was filtered using BERTopic. The findings reveal sustained public discourse leading up to each Olympic event. Over time, traditional media exhibited increasing sentiment polarization, with a notable decline in neutral coverage, aligning with Media Representation Theory. Social media, particularly in user comments, demonstrated a broader range of opinions. Peaks in Reddit activity frequently coincided with traditional media spikes, which likely reflects the synchronized nature of Olympic media coverage rather than one source unilaterally influencing the others. A substantial disparity in media attention was observed between the Olympics and Paralympics, with the former receiving significantly more coverage. However, Paralympic content, especially on YouTube, showed signs of increasing engagement and a comparatively less negative sentiment profile.		[Amaro, Maria] Univ Porto, Fac Engn, P-4200465 Porto, Portugal; [Amaro, Maria; Molontay, Roland] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Inst Math, Dept Stochast, Muegyet Rkp 3, H-1111 Budapest, Hungary; [Molontay, Roland] Semmelweis Univ, Inst Biostat & Network Sci, Ulloi Ut 26, H-1085 Budapest, Hungary; [Molontay, Roland] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Inst Math, Dept Stochast, Muegyet Rkp 3, H-1111 Budapest, Hungary								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001753564900001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Mest, Jack; Flood, Andrew; Preston, Peter; Waddington, Gordon; Malliaras, Peter; Fearon, Angie M.								Sensorimotor dysfunction does not predict pain-related cognition, but proprioception is associated with pain catastrophizing and pain self-efficacy in people with lower limb tendinopathy: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				79						101921	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101921			MAY 2026	2026	Objectives: To investigate if sensorimotor function predicts pain-related cognition in people with lower limb tendinopathy. Design: Single-cohort, cross-sectional study. Setting: Sports and exercise research laboratory. Participants: Seventy-three participants with a diagnosed lower limb tendinopathy. Main outcome measures: We measured proprioception (active movement extent discrimination apparatus), unilateral balance (Y-balance test), bipedal postural control (sensory organization test) and lower limb muscle strength in a single laboratory visit. Pain-related cognition was assessed using the Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia (TSK-11), fear of pain questionnaire, pain catastrophizing scale, pain self-efficacy scale. Linear regression analysis was conducted to determine whether sensorimotor function was predictive of pain-related cognition. Results: Sensorimotor function was not predictive of kinesiophobia (p = 0.24, Delta R2 = 0.06), fear of pain (p = 0.97, Delta R2 = 0.01), pain catastrophizing (p = 0.1) or pain self-efficacy (p = 0.18, Delta R2 = 0.06) after controlling for age, sex, disability and pain intensity. Proprioceptive ability was associated with pain catastrophizing (& micro; =-5.52, p = 0.02) and pain self-efficacy ((3 = 23.05, p = 0.046). Conclusions: Collectively, sensorimotor factors did not predict pain-related cognition. However, when considering sensorimotor factors individually, proprioceptive ability was associated with both pain catastrophizing and self-efficacy but not fear.		[Mest, Jack; Flood, Andrew; Waddington, Gordon; Fearon, Angie M.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bldg 29,11 Kirinari St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Mest, Jack; Fearon, Angie M.] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Physiotherapy, Bruce, Australia; [Flood, Andrew] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Psychol, Bruce, Australia; [Preston, Peter] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Med Radiat Sci, Bruce, Australia; [Waddington, Gordon] Australian Inst Sport, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Discipline Physiotherapy, Frankston, Australia; [Mest, Jack] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bldg 29,11 Kirinari St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001759693000001	95	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Ayoon; Byun, Kyungseok; Kim, Yerim; Choi, Eunbin; Lee, Hyo Keun								Automated detection of racket-ball impact timing in tennis strokes using deep learning models and a markerless motion capture system								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2662620				2026	Event identification, which refers to defining important moments within a movement, is a fundamental process in biomechanical analysis. This study aimed to develop and evaluate deep learning models for automated detection of the moment of racket-ball contact during tennis strokes. For this purpose, Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) and Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) networks were implemented using kinematic data collected from a markerless motion capture system. Kinematic data were obtained from 16 collegiate tennis players performing standard stroke techniques. Among various joint combinations, a set of ankle, elbow, knee, and wrist data provided the highest performance with 95% accuracy. The LSTM model achieved a precision of 95.77%, an F1-score of 97.09%, and an AUC of 98.06%, while the GRU model achieved a precision of 96.23%, an F1-score of 97.71%, and an AUC of 99.20%. These findings demonstrate that automated detection of sport-specific biomechanical events can effectively replace labour-intensive manual annotation. Moreover, markerless motion capture systems enable large-scale and ecologically valid data collection, offering a viable alternative to laboratory-based methods. The proposed approach provides a methodological basis for near-real-time monitoring and practical feedback in tennis performance analysis and training.		[Lee, Ayoon] Univ Seoul, Dept Stat Data Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Byun, Kyungseok] VectorBio Inc, Seoul, South Korea; [Byun, Kyungseok; Kim, Yerim; Choi, Eunbin; Lee, Hyo Keun] Kwangwoon Univ, Dept Sports Convergence Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Hyo Keun] Kwangwoon Univ, Dept Sports Convergence Sci, Seoul, South Korea								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001752641300001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Docters, Francesca; Locke, Auston R.; Ramey, Matthew D.; Balachandran, Uma; Ranade, Sheena								Descriptive epidemiology of pediatric tennis injuries: insights from a decade of national data								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2662837				2026	Objectives Tennis is a sport which can result in a range of injuries due to the extensive use of both the upper and lower extremities during play. Although tennis injuries are described in the literature, data specifically characterizing injury patterns in pediatric populations remain limited. This study aims to identify the epidemiology of pediatric tennis injuries presenting to US emergency departments (ED) over the past 10 years through both a sex and age specific analysis. Methods The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) wQuery ID:AQ1 Page No:1 Query ID:AQ2 Page No:1 Query ID:AQ3 Page No:2 Query ID:AQ4 Page No:3 Query ID:AQ5 Page No:3 Query ID:AQ6 Page No:4 as queried for pediatric (2-18) tennis injuries presenting to U.S. EDs from 1 January 2014-31 December 2023. Patient demographics, injury site, diagnosis, and disposition were recorded. National estimates (NE) were calculated using the NEISS statistical sample weight. Differences in injury distributions by age and sex were evaluated using Rao-Scott adjusted chi-square tests. Individual injury frequency differences across subgroups are presented descriptively. Results A total of 1,672 NEISS cases were identified, corresponding to an estimated 48,378 pediatric tennis-related injuries. Sprains/strains were the most commonly observed diagnosis among both sexes, followed by contusions/abrasions and fractures. Ankles were the predominant body part afflicted in sprains/strains and overall. Within contusions/abrasions, the face and eyeball were most commonly affected across sex and age subgroups. Children most commonly had lacerations and facial injuries, while adolescents most commonly had strains/sprains and ankle injuries. The distribution of injury types and locations significantly differed between males and females, and children and adolescents (p < 0.01). Fewer than 1% of injuries required hospitalization following ED presentation. Conclusion Sprains/strains were the most common injuries, with distinct age-related patterns observed, including a higher proportion of facial injuries in children and ankle injuries in adolescents. Most injuries were minor, reflecting a relatively safe injury profile. These findings highlight potential targets for injury prevention strategies, such as protective eyewear and neuromuscular training.		[Docters, Francesca; Locke, Auston R.; Balachandran, Uma; Ranade, Sheena] Icahn Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5 East 98th St,9th Floor, New York, NY 10029 USA; [Ramey, Matthew D.] Oakland Univ, William Beaumont Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Rochester, MI USA; [Docters, Francesca] Icahn Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5 East 98th St,9th Floor, New York, NY 10029 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001752249700001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Junca, Albert; Garcia-Domingo, Josep L.; Tarres, Octavi; Taberner, Isaac								Who fills the stadium? Cluster-based insights from FC Barcelona's matchday audience								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-10-2025-0543				2026	PurposeThis study aims to advance understanding of contemporary football spectatorship by identifying and analysing distinct audience segments attending live matches at elite stadiums. It addresses the limitations of unidimensional segmentation of fans by introducing a multidimensional framework to capture the diversity of matchday attendees in globalized football.Design/methodology/approachThe study employs a cluster-based segmentation approach grounded in key theories of football spectatorship. Guided by these frameworks, sociodemographic and contextual variables - gender, age, origin and membership status - served as primary segmentation drivers. Data were collected through a structured survey administered to 657 matchday attendees at FC Barcelona's stadium during two La Liga fixtures. The TwoStep clustering algorithm identified distinct fan segments. Inter-cluster differences in affiliation, experience and attendance were then assessed using analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Chi-square tests.FindingsSeven distinct clusters were identified, each representing specific patterns of stadium attendance, fan affiliation and fan experience evaluation. The results reveal a coexistence of emotionally committed local fans and experience-oriented international spectators, with significant differences in satisfaction, loyalty and matchday motivations. Notably, two exclusively female clusters emerged alongside a distinct group (Mild Members) with a hybrid profile - combining formal affiliation with sporadic attendance.Originality/valueThis study advances segmentation research in three ways: it focuses on in-stadium audiences of a global club rather than media-based fan bases; it uses sociodemographic and contextual variables as primary segmentation drivers; and it identifies emerging clusters - such as exclusively female groups and "Mild Members" - with implications for experience design and revenue optimization.		[Junca, Albert; Garcia-Domingo, Josep L.; Tarres, Octavi; Taberner, Isaac] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia, Vic, Spain; [Junca, Albert] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia, Vic, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001749366400001	88	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Alvar, Brooke E.; Harris, Dale M.; O'Bryan, Steven J.; Nelson, Andre R.								Strength-sport athlete and coach perspectives and training practices throughout the menstrual cycle								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261439786				2026	Despite increasing participation of female athletes in strength-sports such as weightlifting and powerlifting, there is limited research investigating how the menstrual cycle (MC) and MC-related symptoms may influence the strategies and training practices elite athletes and coaches employ to optimise training, wellbeing and competition outcomes. The aim for this study was to investigate both athlete and coach perspectives and lived experiences, to provide real-world application pertaining to athlete health, training, and competition performance throughout the MC. Four semi-structured focus group interviews were conducted, including eight elite female weightlifters and powerlifters, and seven coaches (n = 4 M, 3F). Thematic analysis was conducted using an interpretive phenomenological approach to identify key themes. Athletes shared various experiences of MC-related symptoms including low-back pain, increased fatigue, and changes in technique. Athletes and coaches provided insight into how they adjusted training in response to MC-related symptoms including reducing intensity and swapping exercises or training days. Participants also acknowledged the importance of addressing other factors such as the prevailing stigma of the MC, communication barriers, and knowledge gaps, as these contribute to appropriately managing MC-symptoms around training and competition. This data contributes to our understanding of MC-symptomology, and management of training throughout the MC in strength-sport athletes. Importantly, this research highlights the need to normalise the MC further while advancing knowledge and awareness in the strength-sport environment. Future research integrating MC-symptom tracking and subjective measures alongside objective performance may further clarify the impacts of the MC on elite strength-sport athletes.		[Alvar, Brooke E.; Harris, Dale M.; O'Bryan, Steven J.; Nelson, Andre R.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHES, Melbourne 3011, Australia; [Alvar, Brooke E.] Victoria Univ, First Year Coll, Footscray Pk Campus, Melbourne, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001748026900001	62	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bal, Sefika Pelin; Raya-Gonzalez, Javier; Martinez-Aranda, Luis Manuel								Implementing a Two-Season Traditional Strength Training Intervention: Chronic Adaptations in Physical Fitness and External Match Demands of High-Performance Female Youth Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2659831				2026	This study aimed to analyze the impact of a long-term traditional strength training intervention across two full competitive seasons to evaluate physical fitness performance and external match demands in high-performance female youth soccer players. Twenty-eight Danish female young high-performance soccer players (age: 16.5 +/- 0.8 years), belonging to two different soccer teams competing at the highest level for their age, participated in the study. Teams were allocated to either an experimental group, performing twice-weekly strength training for 2 years (EG, n = 14) or a control group (CG, n = 14). Physical fitness level, including vertical jump performance and Yo-Yo IR2 performance for maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), was assessed at four different time points: at the beginning of season 1; at the end of season 1; at the beginning of season 2; and the end of season 2. Additionally, players' match external demands (i.e. total distance, distance covered at speeds above 23 km & centerdot;h(-1), and maximum velocity achieved) were monitored using Global Positioning System devices during four matches before and after the intervention, in the same 4 time-points. Experimental group players obtained greater improvements in both physical fitness and external match load performance, compared to the players in the control group, showing enhancements in all comparisons along the time-points (p < .05 to p < .001). These findings support the inclusion of strength training as an essential part of female soccer players' periodization, not only to improve their performance, but also to facilitate their transition to professional soccer.		[Bal, Sefika Pelin] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, Murcia, Spain; [Bal, Sefika Pelin] Univ Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark; [Raya-Gonzalez, Javier] Univ Cordoba, Cordoba, Spain; [Martinez-Aranda, Luis Manuel] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain; [Raya-Gonzalez, Javier] Univ Cordoba, Fac Educ Sci & Psychol, Dept Specif Didact, C San Alberto Magno S-N, Cordoba, Cordoba, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001752226000001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Silva, Lorena Rodrigues; Ferreira, Gustavo Dias; Ribeiro, Franciele da Silva; da Cunha, Gabriel Barros; Gaya, Anelise Reis; Pinheiro, Eraldo dos Santos; Bergmann, Gabriel Gustavo								Effects of SHOW Intervention Program on Physical Activity and Fatness of Overweight and Obese Children: A Non-Randomized Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2660806				2026	This study examined the effect of a multicomponent intervention on physical activity (PA) levels and fatness of overweight and obese (OW/OB) children from low-income conditions. A total of 72 children aged 8 to 12years (10.2 +/- 1.07) were allocated to an intervention (IG, n = 35) or a control group (CG, n = 37). The 16-week intervention comprised generalized sport teaching, health education, and family involvement, delivered twice a week. PA levels were assessed using accelerometers. Fatness indicators included body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC), waist-to-height ratio (WHtR), and the sum of subscapular and tricipital skinfold thickness (& sum;ST). Assessments were performed at baseline and post-intervention, with analyses conducted under an intention-to-treat approach. Groups were comparable at baseline (p > .05). The majority of participants were male (69.2%) and classified as overweight (70.8%). Following the intervention, compared with baseline, the IG showed significant increases in PA across all intensities (p < .05), whereas the CG demonstrated no changes (p > .05). Regarding fatness, the IG exhibited reductions in WC, WHtR, and & sum;ST (p < .05), while no changes were observed in the CG (p>.05). In the gender-stratified analyses, the intervention effects on all PA intensities remained significant only for boys. A 16-week multicomponent intervention program-including generalized sport instruction, health education, and family participation-implemented in the extracurricular period increased daily PA across all intensities in boys and reduced fatness in both boys and girls in OW/OB children.		[Silva, Lorena Rodrigues; Ferreira, Gustavo Dias; Ribeiro, Franciele da Silva; da Cunha, Gabriel Barros; Gaya, Anelise Reis; Pinheiro, Eraldo dos Santos; Bergmann, Gabriel Gustavo] Univ Fed Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil; [Bergmann, Gabriel Gustavo] Fed Univ Pelotas UFPel, Sch Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Luis de Camoes St 625 Tres Vendas, BR-96055630 Pelotas, RS, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001752239000001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Daniels, Arryana; Pletcher, Erin R.; Adkins, Ricker S.; Pagnotta, Kelly D.; Slaby, Ella K.; Hunzinger, Katherine J.								Differences in concussion knowledge and attitudes among American community rugby members								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261441516				2026	Objectives: To assess and determine if concussion knowledge and attitudes differ among American community rugby members: Coaches, Sports Medicine Staff (SM; ranging from first aid trained personnel to sports-medicine trained physicians), Administrators (Admins), Players, and Referees/Referee Coaches (Refs). Methods: Participants completed an online survey of the Rosenbaum Concussion Knowledge and Attitude Survey-Student Version to calculate two indices: Concussion Knowledge Index (CKI: Range 0-25) and Concussion Attitude Index (CAI: Range 15-75), with higher scores indicating greater knowledge and safer attitudes towards concussion. Krushkal-Wallis tests compared CAI and CKI scores across all five roles, with pairwise comparisons using Dunn's procedure and a Bonferroni correction (alpha = 0.005). Results: 702 participants (30.0 + 10.4 years, 75.1% Male) represented five groups: Coaches: n = 115; SM: n = 23; Admin: n = 18; Players: n = 472, and Refs: n = 74. Post hoc analyses revealed statistically significant differences in median CKI and CAI between Refs (22.0; 65.5) and SM (13.0; 51.0) and Players (12.0; 50.0) [p < 0.003 for all comparisons]. Refs also had significantly higher CKI than coaches (18.0) [p < 0.001]. Admins (22.0) had significantly higher CKI than players and SM (p < 0.002). Lastly, players had significantly lower CAI than Coaches (61.0) and Admins (65.5) [p < 0.001]. Conclusions: Concussion knowledge and attitudes vary significantly by role in American community rugby. Referees and administrators demonstrated the highest knowledge and safest attitudes, while players exhibited the lowest, raising concerns about self-reporting behaviors. Targeted education initiatives are needed to improve player awareness and safety.		[Daniels, Arryana] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Sidney Kimmel Med Coll, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Pletcher, Erin R.; Adkins, Ricker S.; Pagnotta, Kelly D.; Hunzinger, Katherine J.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Slaby, Ella K.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Ammon Pinizzotto Ctr Womens Mental Hlth, Boston, MA USA; [Hunzinger, Katherine J.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Jefferson Ctr Injury Res & Prevent, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Hunzinger, Katherine J.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Ronson Hlth & Appl Sci Ctr 225E, Dept Exercise Sci, 4201 Henry Ave, Philadelphia, PA 19144 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001747057600001	38	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lee, Ji-Yong; Park, Jae-Hyeon; Oh, Danhwi; Kim, Changgyun								Developing a generative ai-based anti-doping consultation system to enhance coaching practice and athlete decision-making								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261441416				2026	This study aimed to develop a generative AI-based intelligent counseling chatbot system for doping prevention and to evaluate its performance. The retrieval corpus was constructed from publicly available resources such as regulations and prohibited substance lists available on the Korea Anti-Doping Agency (KADA) website. The system was constructed by combining the Qwen3:30B-A3B model with a vector database (ChromaDB). For performance evaluation, 51 test items were extracted from KADA's Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) and "Voice of Customers" sections. The analysis results showed that the proposed system achieved an overall accuracy of 82.35% and a response consistency of 96.08%, demonstrating high performance. This system can provide counseling and educational services to diverse groups-including athletes, coaches, and parents-regardless of time and location, thereby enhancing the efficiency and accessibility of doping prevention administration.		[Lee, Ji-Yong; Park, Jae-Hyeon] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Ctr Sports Analyt AI, Seoul, South Korea; [Oh, Danhwi; Kim, Changgyun] Kangwon Natl Univ, Dept Elect & AI Syst Engn, Samcheok 25913, Kangwo, South Korea; [Kim, Changgyun] Kangwon Natl Univ, Dept Elect & AI Syst Engn, Samcheok 25913, Kangwo, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001746027700001	26	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Coutinho, Patricia; Pedroto, Belem B.; Vieira, Mariana; Lenha, Joao; Brenha, Gustavo; Mesquita, Isabel								The misalignment between developmental pathways assumptions and enacted practice in youth football: Perspectives of technical directors in elite academies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261443383				2026	This study aimed to explore how technical directors working in elite youth football academies understand and interpret players' developmental pathways. Through a qualitative interpretive approach, it examines how they understand and interpret different routes towards expertise, including the interplay between early specialisation, and early diversification across players' developmental trajectories, as well as the role of late specialisation and informal play. It further seeks to capture the reasoning and practical logics that underpin their approaches to player development within the academy context. Eight technical directors participated in semi-structured interviews, which were subsequently analysed using thematic analysis. Findings revealed a persistent tension between the perceived developmental value of early diversification and the structural pressures favouring early specialisation. Participants viewed multisport and informal play experiences as crucial for fostering broad motor, cognitive, and psychosocial competencies that support long-term football development. Nonetheless, early specialisation was seen as the prevailing and advantageous pathway for acquiring complex technical and perceptual-motor skills. Concerns were raised about the associated risks of burnout, overuse injuries, and dropout, while external pressures from parents, coaches, and agents were identified as key factors reinforcing premature specialisation and a results-driven culture in youth football. The results suggest a disconnect between developmental assumptions and practical realities, raising important questions about the sustainability and inclusiveness of existing talent development pathways. This study underscores the need to critically revisit current developmental practices in youth football, advocating for coach education and development frameworks that prioritise long-term, holistic, diversified, and context-sensitive approaches to youth football.		[Coutinho, Patricia; Pedroto, Belem B.; Vieira, Mariana; Lenha, Joao; Brenha, Gustavo; Mesquita, Isabel] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Coutinho, Patricia] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001746054200001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hasselaar, Jeroen; de Leeuw, Arie-Willem; Harmsen, Daphne; Truijens, Martin; Huijgen, Barbara; Elferink-Gemser, Marije								Cycling performance in competitive Dutch youth cyclists: More than just power?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261441428				2026	The determinants of youth cycling performance are still understudied. This study aims to relate multidimensional performance characteristics of road cyclists (U17-category) to a 'Youth Seasonal Cycling Performance Score' (YSCPS). This score represents the weighted average of a cyclist's race results over a season. In total 264 cyclists (209 male, age 15.6 +/- 0.5, cycling experience 5.3 +/- 2.5 years) were assessed on anthropometrical, physiological, technical and psychological tests in a Dutch talent development programme. The relation between test results and YSCPS was investigated using (1) correlational analysis; and (2) machine learning (XGBoost). In males, significant correlations with YSCPS (|rho| = 0.23-0.63) were found for (in decreasing importance): physiological variables (5 min average power output, sprinting and climbing performance), training history, age, technical skills, and anthropometric variables (maturity status, height, body mass, BMI), but not for psychological variables. In females, YSCPS significantly correlated with 5 min. average power output only (rho = 0.63). The accuracies (R2) of the machine learning models for cycling performance were 0.44 (males) and 0.30 (females), with physiological variables and training history being the most important predictors of YSCPS for both genders. It can be concluded that physiological variables mainly relate to cycling performance for Dutch U17 cyclists. Acknowledging the relation between task requirements and cyclists' performance characteristics as well as the distinction between current performance and the development thereof, the results cannot be generalized to cyclists in other countries or older populations without consideration. Still, practitioners can use these results to identify and develop youth cycling talent in The Netherlands.		[Hasselaar, Jeroen; de Leeuw, Arie-Willem; Harmsen, Daphne; Elferink-Gemser, Marije] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands; [Truijens, Martin] CyclingClassNL, Arnhem, Netherlands; [Huijgen, Barbara] Univ Groningen, Fac Behav & Social Sci, Dept Psychol, Groningen, Netherlands; [Elferink-Gemser, Marije] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001746017500001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Erdenee, Baasankhuu; Wada, Naoya; Ganbaatar, Namuun; Nakamata, Hinata; Hashimoto, Koki; Nakazawa, Rie; Tajika, Tsuyoshi								Exploration of injuries among male athletes in the Mongolian National Basketball League: 2022/2023-2024/2025								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2659556				2026	Objectives: Basketball is a high-intensity contact sport with a substantial risk of injury. However, epidemiological data on injuries in Mongolian basketball players remain limited. The objective of this study was to investigate the epidemiology, mechanisms, and burden of injuries in the Mongolian National Basketball League (MNBL) over three consecutive seasons. Methods: A retrospective epidemiological study was conducted on 374 male professional basketball players during the 2022-2023 to 2024-2025 seasons. Injury data and athlete exposures (AEs) were collected using standardized medical reporting forms. Incidence rates (IR) per 1,000 AEs, injury rate ratios (IRRs), and injury burden (days lost per 1,000 AEs) were calculated with 95% Poisson-based exact confidence intervals (CIs). Results: A total of 105 injuries were recorded during 28,804 AEs. The overall IR was 3.65 (95% CI: 3.00-4.41). The injury risk was significantly higher during games (IR: 7.45) than in training (IR: 2.49), with an IRR of 2.99 (95% CI: 2.04-4.39, p < 0.001). The ankle was the most frequently injured anatomical site (32.38%; IR: 1.18), and sprains were the most common injury type (32.38%; IR: 1.18). Player-to-player contact was the primary injury mechanism (53.33%), showing a five-fold higher risk in games than in training (IRR = 5.48, p < 0.001). Moderate and severe injuries predominated (87.62% of total injuries), contributing to a substantial injury burden of 91.55 days lost per 1,000 AEs. Conclusions: Professional basketball in Mongolia is characterized by a high risk of injury during competitive play, particularly contact-related injuries. The prolonged recovery times and high severity of injuries highlight the critical need for evidence-based prevention, including neuromuscular control training, and the enhancement of on-court medical infrastructure to optimize athlete safety and professionalization in the MNBL.		[Erdenee, Baasankhuu; Ganbaatar, Namuun] Mongolian Natl Univ Med Sci, Sch Nursing, Dept Phys & Occupat Therapy, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia; [Wada, Naoya] Jobu Hosp Resp Dis, Dept Rehabil, Maebashi, Japan; [Nakamata, Hinata] East Maebashi Orthoped Hosp, Rehabil Ctr, Maebashi, Gunma, Japan; [Hashimoto, Koki] Hidaka Hosp, Dept Rehabil Ctr, Takasaki, Gunma, Japan; [Nakazawa, Rie; Tajika, Tsuyoshi] Gunma Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, 3-39-22 Showa Machi, Maebashi, Gunma 3718514, Japan; [Tajika, Tsuyoshi] Gunma Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, 3-39-22 Showa Machi, Maebashi, Gunma 3718514, Japan								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001744626700001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Chatzakis, Prokopios; Paradisis, Giorgos; Nikolaou, Chrysoula; Zacharogiannis, Elias								Performance predictors and pacing profile in a 12-h track ultramarathon								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261443908				2026	Although pacing strategies and performance predictors have been extensively investigated in ultra-marathon running events, the 12-h ultra-marathon remains relatively understudied. The aim of the present study was to investigate the pacing profiles during a 12-h ultra-marathon event and to develop a predictive model of performance based on aerobic and anthropometric laboratory measures. Fifteen experienced male ultra-marathon runners completed an incremental treadmill test to exhaustion and subsequently participated in a 12-h track ultra-marathon race. Participants adopted a reverse J-shaped pacing strategy. Although no significant interaction between performance level and mean hourly running velocity was observed, high-level runners exhibited significantly lower velocity variability (CV). Furthermore, the predictive model demonstrated that body fat percentage, BMI, VT and HRmax were strong predictors of 12-h ultra marathon performance, showing a high explanatory capacity when combined. In conclusion, these findings highlight the combined importance of body composition, aerobic capacity and pacing regulation in optimizing performance during time-limited ultra-marathon events.		[Chatzakis, Prokopios; Paradisis, Giorgos; Zacharogiannis, Elias] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece; [Nikolaou, Chrysoula] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Med Sch, Athens, Greece; [Chatzakis, Prokopios] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Eth Antistaseos 41, Dafni, Greece								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001744932600001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lewis, Darren; Daly, Ed; Bradley, Jonathan; Martin, Denise								The aims content evaluation (ACE) model of video-based feedback design: A systematic review and critical interpretive synthesis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261440251				2026	Video-based feedback (VBF) has become a central component to performance sport, offering coaches, analysts and athletes opportunities to analyse, reflect, and prepare for performance. Despite technological advances and significant investments made to implement VBF, there is little research to explain how it is intentionally designed or evaluated. A systematic literature review and a critical interpretive synthesis approach was conducted to identify the key principles of VBF and develop a model for applied practice. Thirty-nine studies across multiple sports were included and analysed using reflexive thematic analysis. Three overarching principles were identified: Aims, Content, and Evaluation. Together they form the ACE Model, which describes the choice points around aims, concurrent design decisions, and evaluation processes for VBF practice. This study positions VBF as an interdisciplinary practice and contributes a model to guide the design of VBF strategies and interventions. The ACE Model provides a practical, theory-informed scaffold for purposeful VBF design and evaluation in elite sport.		[Lewis, Darren; Daly, Ed; Bradley, Jonathan; Martin, Denise] Atlantic Technol Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Nutr, Galway, Ireland; [Lewis, Darren] Codex Anal, Res Dept, Gloucester, England; [Bradley, Jonathan] South East Technol Univ, Dept Sport Media & Mkt, Carlow, Ireland; [Lewis, Darren] Atlantic Technol Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Nutr, Galway, Ireland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001744925400001	79	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Pettersen, Jannicke N.; Chroni, Stiliani (Ani); Stambulova, Natalia								Exploring parents' perspectives of the transition from children-to-youth sport in Norway								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261426925				2026	This study aimed to explore the children-to-youth sport transition (CYT) from parents' perspectives, exploring how parents perceive and navigate the CYT. In Norway, athletes transition to youth sport at age 13, when the Children's Rights in Sports are replaced by the Youth Sport Recommendations. This brings changes to the goals, priorities, and operations of sport organisations, reshaping the youth sport environment. We interviewed six parents from Norwegian handball and cross-country ski sports and analysed the data using reflexive thematic analysis. We identified three main themes: parents' understanding of the CYT, parents' perceived support for CYT athletes, and parents' own challenges and meaning-making of sport parenting. Parents perceive the CYT as a period of holistic changes in their children's lives, as athletes must cope with increased workloads in sport and at school, higher expectations, and changes in their peer relationships due to their sport commitment. Parents facilitate their children's sport involvement and coping during the CYT by providing practical and emotional support. At the same time, parents themselves experience challenges as their children transition to youth sport, like increased time commitment, learning new regulations, and the emotional strain of seeing their children face adversity. Their children's sports involvement affects family time and limits parents' opportunities for other interests. Still, parents value the time spent in sport with their children and find their sport parenting journey rewarding and meaningful. The findings highlight the importance of providing resources and support to parents, enabling them to efficiently navigate the CYT experiences of their children and themselves.		[Pettersen, Jannicke N.; Chroni, Stiliani (Ani)] Univ Inland Norway, Dept Publ Hlth & Sport Sci, Elverum, Norway; [Stambulova, Natalia] Halmstad Univ, Sch Hlth & Welf, Halmstad, Sweden; [Pettersen, Jannicke N.] Univ Inland Norway, Dept Publ Hlth & Sport Sci, Elverum, Norway								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001744930700001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Washif, Jad Adrian; Lum, Danny; Raja Azidin, Raja Mohammed Firhad; Pagaduan, Jeffrey; Lim, Julian; Tan, Erik; Mohamad, Nur Ikhwan; James, Carl; Beaven, Christopher Martyn; Kok, Lian Yee								Current strength and conditioning in Southeast Asia: Practices, challenges, and emerging trends								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261431976				2026	Strength and conditioning (S&C) is a field within exercise science that advocates evidence-based practice. As empirical knowledge evolves, translation of this knowledge into coaching practice is expected. However, knowledge translation remains challenging across many industries, particularly S&C, due to varying professional standards and limited resources. This study investigated current practices, challenges, and trends among S&C coaches in Southeast Asia (SEA). Seventy-one S&C coaches (87% male) from major sports organisations completed an online survey covering demographics, job satisfaction, motivation, programming knowledge, AI use, training principles, and exercise methods. Frequency analysis and Chi-square tests assessed data distribution and group differences. Most coaches held a bachelor's degree (93%) and S&C certification(s) (73%). Approximately half (49%) were satisfied with their roles, with mixed views on salary (38% satisfied vs. 38% dissatisfied). Passion (89%) was the primary motivator, while limited facilities (72%) and financial incentives (61%) were common challenges. Coaches reported greater proficiency in strength (87%) than conditioning (57%) programming. AI use within programming (e.g., ChatGPT) was limited (8%). Exercise selection was guided by training goals (93%), experience (87%), specificity (85%), and periodisation (80%). Load intensity and progression were primarily prescribed using percent-based (80% and 85%, respectively) and RPE-based (80%, 72%), with lower use of velocity-based methods (48%, 34%). Application of conventional, eccentric-, concentric-, and isometric-emphasis training were widespread (>= 85%), with 100% using supersets for strength and hypertrophy development. S&C coaches in SEA demonstrated foundational qualifications, programming skills, and awareness of evidence-based methods, while emphasising athlete-centred approaches and communication. Structured professional development, consideration of AI-based tools, and organisational support are recommended.		[Washif, Jad Adrian; Tan, Erik] Natl Sports Inst Malaysia, Inst Sukan Negara, Sports Performance Div, High Performance Branch, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Lum, Danny] High Performance Sport Inst, Singapore, Singapore; [Lum, Danny] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Raja Azidin, Raja Mohammed Firhad] Univ Teknol MARA, Fac Sports Sci & Recreat, Shah Alam, Malaysia; [Pagaduan, Jeffrey] Univ Melbourne, Melbourne Sch Psychol Sci, Brain & Mental Hlth Hub, Melbourne, Australia; [Lim, Julian] Athlet Collect, Singapore, Singapore; [Mohamad, Nur Ikhwan] Univ Pendidikan Sultan Idris, Fac Sport Sci & Coaching, Tanjung Malim, Malaysia; [James, Carl] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Acad Wellness & Human Dev, Fac Arts & Social Sci, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [James, Carl] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Ctr Exercise Sci & Med CESAME, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Beaven, Christopher Martyn] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Kok, Lian Yee] Tunku Abdul Rahman Univ Management & Technol, Fac Appl Sci, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Washif, Jad Adrian] Natl Sports Inst Malaysia, Natl Sports Complex, Kuala Lumpur 57000, Malaysia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001744805400001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Simonton, Kelly L.; Mercier, Kevin; Kougioumtzis, Konstantin; Garn, Alex C.								Physical Education Teacher Motivation and Emotions: Extending Generalizability From an Expectancy-Value Perspective								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2652352				2026	This article examines how physical education (PE) teachers experience enjoyment, anger, and anxiety based upon the motivational beliefs of expectancy, value, and cost, according to the Expectancy-Value Theory. More specifically, the study aimed to develop motivational-emotional models for application in PE teaching and teacher education environments. Utilizing validated instruments to measure motivational levels and emotional states, this study included responses from 388 PE teachers from schools throughout the United States using convenience and snowball sampling methods. Confirmatory factor analysis was employed to verify construct validity and structural equation modeling was used to assess the predictive relationships between variables. The research utilized multi-group analysis to confirm whether the results were invariant when applied to different gender groups, teaching levels, and educational settings. All measured constructs demonstrated both reliability and validity. Cost beliefs emerged as the most consistent predictor of teacher emotions, positively associated with anger and anxiety and negatively associated with enjoyment. Expectancy and value beliefs did not significantly predict anger or anxiety, and their associations with enjoyment were marginal. Additional results indicated predictive invariance across all teacher groups and educational settings. Overall, cost beliefs play a dominant role in shaping PE teachers' emotional experiences, highlighting the importance of support in maintaining positive emotions and mitigating negative feelings. The findings provide essential knowledge for developing teacher education programs, professional development initiatives, and policy strategies that promote a motivated and emotionally strong PE teaching workforce.		[Simonton, Kelly L.] Univ Wyoming, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Mercier, Kevin] Adelphi Univ, New York, NY USA; [Kougioumtzis, Konstantin] Univ Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Garn, Alex C.] Univ Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Simonton, Kelly L.] Univ Wyoming, Laramie, WY 82071 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001744452300001	71	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Shen, Leyi; Kaplanidou, Kiki								Athlete social media visual communication messages and their role on inspiration, attributions and consumer engagement levels among sport consumers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-03-2025-0087				2026	PurposeThe purpose of this study is to examine the differential impacts of community- vs sponsorship-oriented athlete Instagram posts on consumer responses, controlling for athlete identification. Specifically, it explores how message type influences inspiration, attributions and consumer engagement while accounting for identification with athletes. Given the increasing role of social media in athlete branding, this research provides insights into how different types of athlete-generated content shape audience perceptions and interactions.Design/methodology/approachThis study employs an experimental design, presenting participants with AI-generated and authentic Instagram posts featuring a professional basketball player, categorized into contrasting themes. Data were collected from 205 participants via an online survey, measuring key variables including athlete identification, inspiration, attributions and consumer engagement behaviors. The analysis utilized exploratory factor analysis and multivariate analysis of covariance to assess the relationships among these constructs.FindingsThe results indicate that compared with sponsorship content, community-oriented posts generally foster stronger positive consumer responses, including higher inspiration and more favorable perceptions of the athlete's involvement in social causes. Inspiration emerged for both message types but tended to remain moderate and did not consistently translate into more effortful engagement. Overall, participants reported greater intentions to like and share posts than to comment on them, with community-oriented posts typically producing higher engagement intentions on these low-effort behaviors. Athlete identification was strongly associated with inspiration and engagement intentions, yet audiences still perceived elements of self-interest in both community-oriented and sponsorship messages, suggesting that fan loyalty does not fully override critical evaluation of promotional content.Originality/valueThis study examines inspiration, attributions and consumer engagement concurrently, providing empirical evidence on the effectiveness of athlete-generated social media content in fostering engagement. While highlighting their interconnected influence on consumer behavior, the findings underscore the importance of authenticity in branding, revealing that cause-driven messaging resonates more deeply but does not necessarily drive behavioral change or reshape long-term brand perceptions. Additionally, the study challenges assumptions that strong fan identification shields athletes from scrutiny, demonstrating that even highly identified fans critically evaluate promotional intent. These insights contribute to sport management literature and offer practical implications for athletes and marketers seeking to optimize digital communication strategies for meaningful audience engagement and sustained brand loyalty.		[Shen, Leyi; Kaplanidou, Kiki] Univ Florida, Gainesville, FL 32612 USA; [Shen, Leyi] Univ Florida, Gainesville, FL 32612 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001742655100001	74	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	da Costa, Yago Pessoa; Amorim E Souza, Saul Guedes; Lacerda, Wigna Gouveia de; Alves, Waldeir Alcantara; Valentim Siqueira Rodrigues, Andre; de Araujo, Rossini Freire; Batista, Gilmario Ricarte								Association Between Competitive Trait Anxiety and Coping Skills Adjusted by Gender and Sport Type: A Cross-Sectional Observational Study With Young Athletes During a National Competition								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2644237				2026	The objective of the present study was to examine the association between competitive trait anxiety and coping skills, adjusting for gender and type of sport. The observational cross-sectional design encompassed 445 male and female athletes aged 12-17 years from both individual and team sports. The assessment of competitive trait anxiety was conducted utilizing the Sport Anxiety Scale-2, while the evaluation of coping skills was verified by the Athletic Coping Skills Inventory. Linear regressions were employed to assess the associations between anxiety (dependent variable) and coping skills (independent variable), with gender and sport type designated as adjustment variables. The results indicated that somatic anxiety exhibited an inverse relationship with concentration and freedom from worry and was higher in females and team-sport athletes; Worry was negatively associated with coping with adversity, confidence and achievement motivation, and freedom from worry and was higher in team-sport athletes; concentration disruption was inversely related to confidence and achievement motivation, concentration, freedom from worry, and coachability; finally, total competitive anxiety was negatively associated with confidence and achievement motivation, concentration, and freedom from worry, and was higher in females. In conclusion, the findings indicated an inverse relationship between various coping skills and dimensions of competitive trait anxiety, suggesting that athletes who demonstrated stronger coping abilities tended to report lower levels of anxiety. These findings suggest the significance of psychological skills training in enhancing coping resources and reducing competitive trait anxiety.		[da Costa, Yago Pessoa; Amorim E Souza, Saul Guedes; Lacerda, Wigna Gouveia de; Alves, Waldeir Alcantara; de Araujo, Rossini Freire; Batista, Gilmario Ricarte] Univ Fed Paraiba, Paraiba, Brazil; [Valentim Siqueira Rodrigues, Andre] Brazilian Olymp Comm, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [da Costa, Yago Pessoa] Univ Fed Paraiba, Dept Phys Educ, Cidade Univ, CampusLot 1, BR-58051900 Joao Pessoa, PB, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001742887800001	60	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dorsch, Travis E.; Vierimaa, Matthew; Blazo, Jordan A.								From Theory to Practice: Re-Examining Core Postulates of the Developmental Model of Sport Participation 25 Years After Its Inception								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2646982				2026	C & ocirc;t & eacute; and colleagues' Developmental Model of Sport Participation (DMSP) is a comprehensive framework that informs parents,' coaches,' and community stakeholders' understanding of athlete development in sport from early childhood to elite levels. Originally conceptualized in 1999, the DMSP offers a common set of principles through which young athletes' sport involvement can be understood. What remains unknown is the extent to which the model applies to a full range of contemporary youth sport participants. As such, the aim of the present study was to reexamine three core postulates of the DMSP that are challenged by present critiques of the model. Data were collected from a nationally representative sample of parents (nmale=4655; nfemale=3512; nnon-binary=22) with youth sport participants ages 6 to 18 in the United States. Group comparisons were conducted across levels of individual and family characteristics to determine whether there were significant differences in athletes' sport involvement, contexts of participation, time engaged, and family spending. Although athletes were more likely to engage in practice over play, unstructured play decreased with age whereas structured practice increased with age. The most highly invested athletes were engaged in more sports and contexts than less invested athletes. Multiple individual, family, and community factors seemed to shape athletes' patterns of sport participation. Moving forward, engaging the broadest range of athletes, families, organizations, and communities in research has the potential to create a more positive and sustainable sports culture for athletes of all ages, backgrounds, and abilities.		[Dorsch, Travis E.] Utah State Univ, Logan, UT USA; [Vierimaa, Matthew] Acadia Univ, Wolfville, NS, Canada; [Blazo, Jordan A.] Louisiana Tech Univ, Ruston, LA USA; [Dorsch, Travis E.] Utah State Univ, Dept Human Dev & Family Studies, 2905 Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001742873400001	63	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Campos, Bruno Teobaldo; Abad, Cesar Cavinato Cal; Macedo Penna, Eduardo; Lima, Claudio Olivio Vilela; Avelar, Andre Ferreira; Mara de Rezende, Cristiane; da Silveira-Rodrigues, Joao Gabriel; Prado, Luciano Sales								Reference Values for Maximal Strength in Elite Judo Athletes: National- and International-Level Competitors								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2636255				2026	Maximal strength is a fundamental attribute in judo performance, yet few studies have examined strength differences by sex, weight category, and competitive level among elite athletes. This study aimed to establish normative values for maximal strength in national and international-level judo competitors. A total of 112 elite athletes (68 males, 44 females) underwent one-repetition maximum (1RM) tests in back squat, bench press, and prone row. ANOVA 2-way and t-tests were used to compare strength across sex, weight categories, and competitive levels. Percentile-based classification tables were also developed to assist practical applications. Male athletes demonstrated significantly higher absolute strength than females in all exercises: back squat (p < .001, eta(2) = 0.50), bench press (p < .001, eta(2) = 0.62), and prone row (p < .001, eta(2) = 0.45). Among males, heavier athletes displayed greater strength than lighter categories (p < .05), while no such differences were observed among females. International-level athletes outperformed national-level peers in absolute strength across all exercises (p < .05; d = 0.52-0.76), but relative strength did not differ significantly (p > .05). These results highlight key sex- and level-based distinctions in strength and offer evidence-based benchmarks to guide individualized strength training strategies for optimizing judo performance.		[Campos, Bruno Teobaldo; da Silveira-Rodrigues, Joao Gabriel; Prado, Luciano Sales] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Ave Antonio Carlos 6627,Bairro Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Abad, Cesar Cavinato Cal] Serv Social Comercio SESI, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Macedo Penna, Eduardo] Univ Fed Para, Belem, Brazil; [Lima, Claudio Olivio Vilela; Avelar, Andre Ferreira; Mara de Rezende, Cristiane] Minas Tenis Clube, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Campos, Bruno Teobaldo] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Ave Antonio Carlos 6627,Bairro Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001743350100001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Staff, Toby; Staff, Roger; Gobet, Fernand; Bishop, Daniel; Parton, Andrew								The Effect of Cognitive Ability on Novices' Learning of a Field Hockey Motor Skill								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2655029				2026	Elite athletic performance is linked to advanced cognitive functioning, yet cognition's role in motor skill acquisition among novices remains underexplored. This study examined how cognition influences learning a complex field hockey skill in participants with minimal prior experience. Forty novices (mean age = 20.04 years) completed a hockey ball control task assessed across six timepoints, three before and three after viewing a coaching video of an expert performing the task. Cognitive measures included fluid intelligence (Raven's Progressive Matrices), crystallized intelligence (Spot-the-Word), working memory (OSpan), perceptual speed (Inspection Time), and psychomotor ability (Fitts's task). Declarative and procedural knowledge were also recorded. Performance was evaluated using positional and technical scoring systems. Gains through repetition were modeled via linear regression. No overall significant improvement occurred during uncoached repetition. However, crystallized intelligence predicted individual differences in pre-coaching gains while fluid intelligence was positively associated with immediate coaching effects. Post-intervention improvements were predicted by working memory capacity and number of practice attempts. Psychomotor ability predicted gains through repetition both before and after intervention. Distinct cognitive domains support different phases of motor learning. Cognitive profiling may inform talent identification in early skill acquisition.		[Staff, Toby; Staff, Roger; Bishop, Daniel; Parton, Andrew] Brunel Univ London, London, England; [Staff, Roger] NHS Grampian, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Staff, Roger] Univ Aberdeen, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Gobet, Fernand] London Sch Econ & Polit Sci, London, England; [Gobet, Fernand] Univ Roehampton, Roehampton, England; [Staff, Roger] Aberdeen Royal Infirm, Med Phys, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, Scotland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001742865100001	66	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fabricio Valerio, Denis; Moriggi Junior, Roberto; Damas, Felipe; Barroso, Renato								Changes in Upper-Limb Lean Tissue Mass in the Early Stages of Resistance Training: The Role of Volume Progression and Exercise Variation in Young Women and Men								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2652354				2026	Resistance training (RT) guidelines recommend regularly adjusting training variables to avoid stagnation in adaptations. However, few studies have investigated the combined effects of modulating volume and exercise variation within a single experimental design. This study examined the effects of increased training volume, exercise variation, and their combination on lean tissue mass in young adults of both sexes. Thirty-two participants completed a 14-week upper-body RT program divided into two phases: (1) six weeks of standardized RT for all participants, and (2) eight weeks of unilateral RT. During phase 2, one arm followed a control protocol (CON), while the other arm was randomly assigned to one of three experimental conditions: higher volume (HV), exercise variation (EV), or a combination of both (HV+EV). Changes in muscle upper-limb lean tissue mass were estimated using Dual-Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) before training and after each phase. Phase 1 led to an average increase of 4.0% in upper-limb lean tissue mass. In phase 2, all conditions showed an additional increase in upper-limb lean tissue mass (CON: 3.1%, HV: 2.2%, EV: 3.0%, HV+EV: 3.2%), with no significant differences between them. These findings suggest that neither increased volume nor exercise variation, alone or combined, enhanced changes in upper-limb lean tissue mass beyond the control condition, likely because all protocols employed sufficient volume and high effort.		[Fabricio Valerio, Denis; Moriggi Junior, Roberto; Damas, Felipe; Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Campinas, Brazil; [Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Campinas, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001741037700001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kim, Hyun-Chul; Park, Ki-Jun								Training-related injury patterns and return-to-sports in elite fencing athletes: a prospective cohort study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	4			314	321		10.1080/00913847.2026.2653988			JUL 4 2026	2026	Objective: To prospectively examine training-related injury incidence, anatomical distribution, and return-to-sports according to sex, weapon category, injury onset (acute vs. overuse), and tissue type in elite fencing athletes. Methods: This prospective injury surveillance study followed elite fencing athletes training at a high-performance facility for 12 months. All acute and overuse training-related injuries were recorded using the International Olympic Committee injury report form. Injury incidence was calculated per 1,000 training hours. Injury location, tissue type, injury onset, and return-to-sports were analyzed according to sex and weapon category. Results: A total of 471 injuries were recorded, yielding an overall incidence of 3.22 injuries per 1,000 training hours. Overuse injuries demonstrated a significantly higher incidence than acute injuries (2.59 vs. 0.63 injuries per 1,000 training hours; p < 0.001). Female athletes had a higher injury incidence than male athletes (3.86 vs. 2.66 injuries per 1,000 training hours; p < 0.001). Saber athletes exhibited the highest injury incidence, followed by epee and foil athletes. The lower extremity was the most frequently injured region (57.54%). Return-to-sports differed significantly by sex, injured body region, and tissue type (p < 0.05), with ligament injuries requiring the longest return-to-sports duration (p < 0.001). Conclusion: Elite fencing athletes experience a substantial burden of training-related injuries, with overuse injuries predominating during training exposure. Injury patterns and return-to-sports vary according to sex, weapon category, and tissue type. These findings support the development of sex- and weapon-specific injury prevention strategies, particularly targeting lower extremity injuries and ligament-related time loss.		[Kim, Hyun-Chul] Korean Sport & Olymp Comm, Dept Med & Sci, Jincheon, South Korea; [Park, Ki-Jun] Kaya Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Gimhae, South Korea; [Park, Ki-Jun] Kaya Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 208 Samgye Ro, Gimhae Si 50830, Gyeongsangnam D, South Korea; [Park, Ki-Jun] Kaya Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 208 Samgye Ro, Gimhae Si 50830, Gyeongsangnam D, South Korea								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001740161100001	42	Article; Article		
J	Beavis, G.; Protheroe, L.; Parker, J. K.; Drury, B.								Slowly does it: The effect of attentional focus on biomechanical and neuromuscular factors during the Nordic hamstring exercise in young female athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261436800				2026	The inclusion of the Nordic hamstring exercise (NHE) is recommended for athletic populations to help reduce hamstring and ACL injury risk via increasing eccentric hamstring strength. However, previous research is yet to identify effective verbal cues to optimise NHE performance. Therefore, this study examined whether kinetic, kinematic, and neuromuscular responses differ when using an external-distal (DIST), external-proximal (PROX), internal (INT) or neutral cue (CON). Twenty-two trained young female athletes (16-18 years) performed three NHE repetitions per cue in a randomised, crossover, counterbalanced design. Peak force, knee breakpoint angle, peak knee velocity and electromyography of the semitendinosus and bicep femoris long-head muscles were recorded. Peak force was significantly higher in CON and DIST compared with INT and PROX (similar to 10-16 N, d = 0.58-0.72), while CON produced a lower breakpoint angle than other cues (similar to 9-12 degrees, d = 0.95-1.24), indicating greater range of motion. CON also elicited the highest peak knee velocity (similar to 31-38 degrees & centerdot;s-1, d = 1.45-1.92) and greater semitendinosus activation (similar to 10-14%, d = 0.32-0.42), with no differences observed for biceps femoris activation. Overall, the CON cue consistently enhanced kinetic, kinematic, and neuromuscular responses during the NHE. The instruction "lower yourself slowly to the ground" therefore appears to be an effective strategy to further enhance NHE performance. Coaches prescribing the NHE within injury-prevention programmes for youth female athletes can adopt this combined exercise-and-cue approach to develop eccentric hamstring strength.		[Beavis, G.; Protheroe, L.; Parker, J. K.; Drury, B.] Hartpury Univ, Dept Appl Sport Sci, Hartpury, Glos, England; [Drury, B.] Hartpury Univ, Dept Appl Sport Sci, Hartpury, Glos, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740634000001	72	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sweeney, Gary; McArdle, Siobhain; Costello, Nessan; Collins, Kieran								Physique development and management shape experiences of low energy availability risk in elite professional male rugby union players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261439191				2026	This study aimed to explore elite male rugby union players' perceptions and lived experiences of physique development and management in relation to low energy availability risk. Semi-structured interviews (29 +/- 8 min) were conducted with 18 players (senior: n = 9; academy: n = 9; mean age: 23 +/- 3) across four professional rugby union clubs in Ireland. Through reflexive thematic analysis, the following themes were constructed. Players had limited awareness of low energy availability, yet described experiences consistent with symptoms, including fatigue, low mood and reduced libido. A pervasive physique culture, characterised by body composition 'ideals' and weight or skinfold 'norms', strongly influenced behaviours and athlete identity. Adolescence was identified as a critical period of vulnerability, where pressures to achieve body composition targets were internalised as discipline but often fostered disordered eating behaviours and negative relationships with food. While some players acknowledged the benefits of professional nutrition support in reshaping harmful beliefs, many expressed frustration towards staff practices and language that reinforced physique expectations without clear performance justification. Elite male rugby union players appear to be an at risk population for low energy availability, with risks shaped less by individual choice than by entrenched cultural norms and staff influence. Early pathway interventions should prioritise one to one nutrition and psychological support, while organisations must ensure alignment in staff beliefs, language, and practices around body composition. Developing evidence informed policies and educational initiatives is essential to foster healthier physique cultures, reduce disordered eating behaviours, and mitigate low energy availability risk in elite rugby union.		[Sweeney, Gary; Collins, Kieran] Technol Univ Dublin, Sch Biol Hlth & Sports Sci, Tallaght Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Sweeney, Gary] Irish Rugby Football Union, Dept Nutr, Dublin, Ireland; [Sweeney, Gary] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [McArdle, Siobhain] Irish Rugby Football Union, Dept Psychol, Dublin, Ireland; [Costello, Nessan] Leeds Beckett Univ, Sch sport, West Yorkshire, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Sweeney, Gary] Technol Univ Dublin, Sch Biol Hlth & Sports Sci, Tallaght Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Sweeney, Gary] Irish Rugby Football Union, Dept Nutr, Dublin, Ireland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740635900001	61	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ernst, Laura M.; Farley, Jessica B.; Milne, Nikki								Sport-related concussion knowledge, attitudes, and reporting intentions in female Australian football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261437697				2026	Despite growing participation of young females in Australian football (AF), literature on concussion knowledge (CK), attitudes (CA), and reporting intentions (CRI) has focused on male athletes and adult populations. Understanding how female AF athletes perceive concussion risk, their willingness to report symptoms, and their knowledge about concussion, is essential for designing targeted injury prevention and education initiatives. This cross-sectional survey study utilised the Rosenbaum Concussion Knowledge and Attitude Survey Student version (RoCKAS-ST) to examine the CK, CA, and CRI of female AF players. Descriptive statistics, multiple one-way ANOVA, and multiple regression analyses were utilised to profile survey results, examine competition level differences, and explore associations between athlete / demographic variables and survey domains (CK, CA, and CRI). Overall, 132 Tier 3 (highly trained) female AF players from two youth and one open-age (OA) team/s on the eastern coast of Australia participated in the study. Mean scores for CK and CA increased by competition level, CK; Under-16 (U16) 18.66 +/- 2.29, 95% CI [17.87-19.44], Under-19 (U19) 19.08 +/- 2.12, 95% CI [18.47-19.69], OA 20.06 +/- 1.83, 95% CI [19.53-20.59] and CA; U16 59.26 +/- 7.20, 95% CI [56.78-61.73], U19 62.12 +/- 7.42, 95% CI [59.99-64.26], OA 65.94 +/- 5.50, 95% CI [64.34-67.53]. Significant differences in CK, CA, and CRI scores were observed between the U16 and OA cohorts (p < 0.05). Differences were also observed in the U19 and OA CA scores and the U16 and U19 CRI scores (p < 0.05). Across all competition levels combined, CA was strongly related to CRI (r(132) = .557, p < 0.001), however, there was no significant relationship between CK and CRI. Multiple regression analysis revealed age was significantly and positively associated with CK and CA scores in female AF players (beta = 0.31, p < 0.01) and in the presence of CK, age, and other demographic variables, CA had a strong association with CRI (R-2 = 0.386, p < 0.001). Future research should explore potential barriers to SRC reporting using robust methods of CRI evaluation, explore competition level differences in RoCKAS-ST domain across a broader range of AF competitions, further explore variables that may influence CA and CRI, and determine if targeted CA initiatives post-SRC in female AF players are effective.		[Ernst, Laura M.; Farley, Jessica B.; Milne, Nikki] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, 2 Promethean Way, Robina, Qld 4226, Australia; [Ernst, Laura M.; Farley, Jessica B.; Milne, Nikki] Bond Univ, Res Collaborat Women & Childrens Hlth & Sport, Robina, Qld, Australia; [Ernst, Laura M.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, 2 Promethean Way, Robina, Qld 4226, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740750300001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tan, Jing Wei; Bishop, Annette; Choo, Darine Hui Wen; Chow, Kin Ming; Zhou, Regine Yong Si; Lim, Darren Zhen Yu; Yang, Bryan; Cheong, Reanne; Polglaze, Ted								Influence of varying work and recovery durations and ratios on physical output in a simulated netball circuit								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261436806				2026	Recent rule changes in netball potentially allow coaches to maximise on-court work-rate and performance by adopting substitution strategies which minimise fatigue within, and optimise recovery between, playing stints. Thirteen female athletes from the Singapore National Netball Team performed three trials of a netball-specific simulation circuit with different combinations of work and recovery duration for each trial (Short - 8:2; Medium - 8:4; Long - 12:6). The circuit comprised a series of runs, jumps and netball-specific movements which replicate typical match demands. The time taken to complete each lap, along with sprint, agility and jump test performance within each lap, and physiological markers (heart rate, blood lactate, RPE, muscle oxygen saturation) were recorded. The Medium trial produced faster average lap times, 10 m sprint and agility times than the Short and Long trials, despite no differences in HR, BLa and RPE. The findings of this study demonstrate that manipulating the duration of work and recovery periods modifies player work rates for the same physiological burden. A W:R of 2:1, comprising an 8-min work duration accompanied by a 4-min rest period, was found to be optimal for maintenance of a high work rate in simulated netball activity.		[Tan, Jing Wei; Choo, Darine Hui Wen; Chow, Kin Ming; Lim, Darren Zhen Yu; Yang, Bryan; Cheong, Reanne; Polglaze, Ted] Singapore Sport Inst, Sport Sci & Med Ctr, Singapore, Singapore; [Bishop, Annette] Netball Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; [Zhou, Regine Yong Si] Natl Youth Sport Inst, Sport Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Tan, Jing Wei] Sport Singapore, Singapore Sport Inst, Sport Sci & Med Ctr, 3 Stadium Dr, Singapore 397630, Singapore								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740634400001	24	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Gambelli, Annalisa; Tamberi, Massimo								The effectiveness of the baton exchange in the 4 × 100 relay depends on the runners' speed: Statistical evidence from Olympic data								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1936	1952		10.1177/17479541261432093			JUN 2026	2026	In the 4 & times; 100 meter relay, an important factor in the final result is the efficiency of the baton exchange between the four athletes. Various studies, employing different approaches, attempt to determine an "optimal" level of efficiency. Generally, they can be divided into two main perspectives: those that suggest a fixed and predetermined ideal value, the same for every team, and some others (fewer in numbers) that indicate that higher levels of efficiency are not equally within the reach of every team. We deepen the second perspective; we apply a panel regression model to the data of the relays in the last eight Olympic Games (Atlanta 1996 - Paris 2024), to fully exploit the multi-dimensional nature (cross-sectional and longitudinal) of our dataset; results provide clear and comprehensive evidence that the efficiency of baton exchange is inversely associated with the speed of the relay runners. Our results are novel, and the few previous works that have addressed similar issues are, in our opinion, less systematic and general, both in terms of data and analysis. We add that, in our view, the two perspectives, fixed or variable effiency, are not mutually exclusive but must be integrated.		[Gambelli, Annalisa] SEF Stamura, Ancona, Italy; [Tamberi, Massimo] Univ Politecn Marche, Dept Econ & Social Sci, Piazza Martelli 8, I-60121 Ancona, Italy; [Tamberi, Massimo] Univ Politecn Marche, Dept Econ & Social Sci, Piazza Martelli 8, I-60121 Ancona, Italy								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740628800001	22	Article; Article		
J	Tonne, Fredrik; Whitehead, Amy; Butt, Joanne; Eubank, Martin; Hoigard, Rune; Saether, Stig Arve								Norwegian elite handball coaches' perceptions of high-performance coaching and the development of talented handball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261441404				2026	The main aim of this study was to investigate elite handball coaches' perceptions of their role as high performance coaches and their understanding of the talent development process. The study uses a qualitative approach through eight in-depth interviews of elite coaches, who possessed extensive experience as coaches (mean 23.5 years), at the national or international level. The thematic data analysis generated two main themes in terms of: the role as high performance coaches and the talent development process. The results showed that the coaches considered their role as a facilitator of development and highlighted their need for competence and dedication in their role. Further, coaches described that at the essence of their role was the coach-athlete relationship, and their investment in the players individual development and the environment they provided. They considered however, talent to be a complex concept and further highlighted that some players could compensate for a lack of certain skills and still perform at a high level. While stating the need for a broad approach in the identification process, they identified two factors of particular importance to become successful as a senior handball player, in terms of the "X-factor" and motivation. Overall, the study supported earlier research on talent identification and perceptions of the term talent, while also elaborating on how coaches consider their own role in the talent development process.		[Tonne, Fredrik; Hoigard, Rune; Saether, Stig Arve] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol NTNU, Dept Sociol & Polit Sci, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway; [Whitehead, Amy; Butt, Joanne; Eubank, Martin] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sports & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Saether, Stig Arve] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol NTNU, Dept Sociol & Polit Sci, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740639900001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Gavin, Kevin; Ryan, Lisa; Daly, Ed								On different sides of the ruck? Exploring stakeholder perceptions of female rugby talent development environments								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261436711				2026	Talent development research has largely overlooked gender-specific insights, resulting in a significant gender data gap. This study aimed to address this disparity by exploring the perceptions of athletes, parents, and coaches in female rugby talent development environments (TDEs). By identifying strengths and areas for improvement, the study seeks to provide actionable insights to enhance the development of female athletes and inform more effective TDEs. A total of 102 female athletes (mean age=15.8 +/- 0.8 years), 80 parents (mean age=48.1 +/- 4.9 years, 31 male, 49 female), and 22 coaches (mean age=38.8 +/- 11.7 years, 14 male, 7 female, 1 other gender) from three rugby TDEs in Ireland completed the Talent Development Environment Questionnaire (TDEQ-5) or adapted versions. Subscale analysis revealed that both athletes (4.83 +/- 0.73) and parents (4.70 +/- 0.91) rated Support Network highest and Holistic Quality Preparation lowest (athletes: 3.96 +/- 0.95; parents: 4.23 +/- 1.46), whereas coaches rated Long-Term Development highest (5.04 +/- 0.50) and Alignment of Expectations lowest (4.11 +/- 0.58). Item-level analysis ranked individual items into top and bottom quartiles, identifying perceived strengths and areas for improvement across all subscales. The findings reveal notable differences in how athletes, parents, and coaches perceive the TDEs. Addressing these perceptual disparities and the identified areas for improvement may enhance the effectiveness of female rugby TDEs, and better support athletes' development.		[Gavin, Kevin; Ryan, Lisa; Daly, Ed] Atlantic Technol Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Nutr, Galway H91 T8NW, Ireland; [Gavin, Kevin] Atlantic Technol Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Nutr, Galway H91 T8NW, Ireland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001740636100001	59	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Roma, Paolo; D'Alfonso, Tiziana; Auci, Sabrina								Monopoly Versus Duopoly in Sports Broadcasting: Consumer Surplus Implications								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	5			528	547		10.1177/15270025261436362			JUN 2026	2026	The sale of sports broadcasting rights typically involves two distinct stages: first, rights are allocated by sports leagues to broadcasters; second, broadcasters market their content to consumers. This paper focuses on the downstream stage, analyzing how consumer surplus depends on whether a single broadcaster (monopoly) offers the entire product, e.g., the entire league, or multiple broadcasters (duopoly) hold exclusive packages (i.e., exclusive subset of matches). In the latter case, consumers interested in the entire product must subscribe to both firms' offers to fully reconstruct it. We show that consumer surplus under monopoly exceeds that under duopoly when consumer valuations for the entire product are sufficiently high relative to the valuations for single components (i.e., exclusive subset of matches) and when marginal costs are low. Conversely, when the added value of the entire product compared to the single components is not sufficiently high or marginal costs are higher, duopoly benefit consumers.		[Roma, Paolo] Univ Palermo, Mkt, Palermo, Italy; [Auci, Sabrina] Univ Palermo, Econ, Palermo, Italy; [D'Alfonso, Tiziana] Sapienza Univ Roma, Ind Econ, Rome, Italy; [Roma, Paolo] Univ Palermo, Viale Sci, I-90128 Palermo, Italy								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001738756400001	46	Article; Article		
J	Kara, Mehmet; Kim, Junhyoung; Genc, Murat; Gumus, Huseyin; Sarica, Emre								Does danger teach? The mediating role of mental fatigue awareness and the moderating effect of non-fatal drowning experiences on swimmers' fear and resilience								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261434502				2026	This cross-sectional, correlational study investigated the relationship between fear of swimming and psychological resilience, focusing on mental fatigue awareness as a mediator and history of non-fatal drowning incidents as a moderator. Data were collected from 624 swimmers in Turkey using the Mental Fatigue Awareness Scale in Athletes, the Brief Resilience Scale, and the Fear of Swimming Scale. Structural equation modeling indicated that fear was negatively associated with resilience through both direct and indirect pathways. Mediation analysis confirmed that mental fatigue awareness functions as an explanatory mechanism, transmitting a substantial portion of fear's impact on resilience. Furthermore, a history of non-fatal drowning demonstrated a significant moderating effect. Specifically, for athletes without such trauma, fear exerted a strong negative impact on resilience; however, for those who had survived a non-fatal drowning incident, this negative relationship was significantly attenuated. These results suggest that surviving a life-threatening aquatic event may induce a form of "psychological inoculation," buffering the destructive effects of fear in subsequent contexts. For coaches and sport psychologists, these findings suggest that resilience-building interventions should target both the psychological sources of fear and the cognitive consequences of mental fatigue awareness to foster robust athletic performance.		[Kara, Mehmet; Genc, Murat; Gumus, Huseyin; Sarica, Emre] Mersin Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Mersin, Turkiye; [Kim, Junhyoung] Texas A&M Univ, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Hlth Behav, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Kim, Junhyoung] Texas Hlth Sci Ctr, Ctr Community Hlth & Aging, Houston, TX USA; [Kim, Junhyoung] Texas A&M Univ, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Hlth Behav, College Stn, TX 77843 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001738736800001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhang, Xing; Chen, Zongwei; Li, Hansen; Weakley, Jonathon; Li, Zhaoqian; Junior Schanzle Guarino, Andy; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								Effects of a repetition-based rest adjustment strategy on superset training performance and fatigue								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261437701				2026	This study aimed to validate the feasibility of a repetition-based method for adjusting inter-set rest intervals during superset resistance training (RT). Twenty young adults completed three protocols-fixed (3-min rest), self-selected (participant-determined rest), and repetition-based (rest adjusted by prior repetition count)-in randomized order, performing five agonist-antagonist supersets (bench press and bench pull) at 75% 1RM. Results indicated greater repetition volume in later supersets for the self-selected and repetition-based protocols compared to the fixed protocol (F = 2.1, p = 0.037, omega p2 = 0.056). However, blood lactate concentrations were significantly higher in the repetition-based protocol compared to both the self-selected and fixed protocols (F = 7.3, p = 0.002, omega p2 = 0.252). No differences among protocols were found in fastest set velocity or perceived exertion (F = 0.3-2.8, p = 0.077-0.782). Regarding time efficiency, the fixed protocol was most efficient, followed by the repetition-based, with the self-selected protocol being least efficient. These findings indicate that the repetition-based approach offers an effective complementary strategy to traditional fixed and self-selected rest methods, especially in contexts emphasizing mechanical performance and session efficiency.		[Zhang, Xing; Chen, Zongwei; Li, Zhaoqian; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Li, Hansen] Sichuan Agr Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Yaan, Peoples R China; [Weakley, Jonathon] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Weakley, Jonathon] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Weakley, Jonathon] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Junior Schanzle Guarino, Andy] Univ Munster, Human Movement Sports & Exercise, Munster, Germany; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001738771600001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Yamakawa, Keisuke Kobayashi; Sengoku, Yasuo; Takagi, Hideki								Changes in muscle coordination during butterfly swimming at submaximal and maximal efforts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2653615				2026	The aim of this study was to clarify the changes in muscle coordination during butterfly swimming at different swimming speeds. Eight female swimmers performed 25 m butterfly at 60%, 80% and 100% effort. Two-dimensional motion analysis was conducted using video data. Surface electromyography was recorded from 12 muscles in the right upper limb, lower limb, and trunk, and muscle synergies were identified using non-negative matrix factorisation. The kinematic analysis showed that the catch phase of the arm stroke shortened with increasing speeds. For most swimmers, four muscle synergies were extracted across different speeds. The spatial components of the four synergies involved in the pull, push, recovery movements of the arm stroke and downward kick were similar across different speeds. In contrast, the drive timing of the three synergies changed earlier at the highest level of effort. In addition, the amount of earlier timing in Synergy 1 between 60% and 100% effort levels was positively correlated with the earlier start of the pull phase (r = 0.72, p < 0.05). Overall, these findings indicate that speed-related kinematic changes are linked mainly to shifts in synergy timing rather than changes in individual muscle activity.		[Yamakawa, Keisuke Kobayashi; Sengoku, Yasuo; Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Yamakawa, Keisuke Kobayashi] Hosei Univ, Sports Res Ctr, Kawasaki, Japan; [Yamakawa, Keisuke Kobayashi] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001739047200001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Portillo, Javier; Abian, Pablo; Bravo-Sanchez, Alfredo; Ramirez-delaCruz, Maria; Diaz-Lara, Javier; Abian-Vicen, Javier								Flipped Classroom Enhances Physical Demands, Energy Cost, and Academic Performance on Nutrition Concepts in Secondary School								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2649971				2026	Virtual learning environments have been shown to be an effective tool to provide contents and materials to help students achieve knowledge. The main objective of our study was to analyze the effects of a flipped classroom methodology on physical demands, energy cost, and academic performance during a nutrition unit in physical education with secondary school students. Eighty-three students were divided into two groups: Flipped Classroom Group (FCG) (n = 42, Age: 14.4 +/- 0.9 years) and Alternative Instruction Group (AIG) (n = 41, Age:14.3 +/- 0.8years). Eight sessions of 55 minutes were carried out in both teaching models. To evaluate the effect of the methodology on students learning, the academic performance was evaluated, pre- and post-intervention with two types of exams: a multiple-choice exam and a problem-solving exam. In addition, the physical demands of each session were recorded using a global positioning system device. The FCG covered 37.7% more total distance during the sessions than the AIG (p < .001) and also recorded a greater energy cost than the AIG (153.39 +/- 31.70 vs. 104.55 +/- 17.76 kcal; p < .001). After the intervention, the results of the multiple-choice (FCG: 2.85 +/- 1.19 vs. 7.13 +/- 1.87 points; p < .001 and AIG: 3.00 +/- 1.25 vs. 7.73 +/- 2.06 points; p < .001) and problem-solving (FCG:4.07 +/- 1.72 vs. 5.81 +/- 1.95 points; p < .001 and AIG: 4.42 +/- 1.69 vs. 5.33 +/- 1.84 points; p = .014) exams increased in both groups (pre-intervention vs. post-intervention), and no differences were found between groups. The flipped classroom is shown to be an effective pedagogical model for learning about healthy eating and increasing physical demands and energy cost during physical education lessons.		[Portillo, Javier; Ramirez-delaCruz, Maria; Diaz-Lara, Javier; Abian-Vicen, Javier] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Toledo, Spain; [Abian, Pablo] Comillas Pontif Univ, Madrid, Spain; [Bravo-Sanchez, Alfredo] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Madrid, Spain; [Abian-Vicen, Javier] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sport Sci, Performance & Sport Rehabil Lab, Avda Carlos III S-N, Toledo 45071, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001736075600001	55	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Burkaite, Greta; Figueira, Bruno; Schollhorn, Wolfgang; Coutinho, Diogo; Paulauskas, Rutenis								Enjoyment, performance and perceived exertion in differential versus repetitive basketball shooting practice								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261437119				2026	This study tested whether momentary enjoyment moderates within-session effects of Differential (DL) and Repetitive Learning (RL) on basketball shooting performance and perceived exertion (RPE) in youth athletes. Thirty-seven players were randomly assigned to DL (n = 19) or RL (n = 18) and completed 16 training sessions across eight weeks. Enjoyment was assessed after each session using the Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale (PACES) and decomposed into within-person and between-person components. Performance outcomes included Stationary Shooting Accuracy Test (SSAT) scores before and after a 30-shot training task (30-STT), as well as accuracy during the 30-STT itself. RPE was recorded immediately following each session. Linear mixed models (LMMs) were used to analyze group effects and enjoyment-related moderators. Results showed that DL yielded superior performance in the 30-STT (beta = 2.23, p = .011, d = 0.66) and substantially lower RPE compared with RL (beta = -1.18, p < .001, d = -1.40), reflecting performance differences within the practiced task constraints rather than generalized shooting proficiency. We did not detect moderation of DL versus RL effects by enjoyment; however, confidence intervals for interaction terms and the limited variability in PACES indicate that small-to-moderate moderation effects cannot be ruled out. SSAT scores were similar between groups pre- and post-task, with explained variance driven primarily by individual differences rather than enjoyment changes. Training structure accounted for immediate performance and RPE differences independently of post-session enjoyment, though this does not preclude the importance of affective states, which require more comprehensive assessment and ecologically valid performance measures.		[Burkaite, Greta; Figueira, Bruno; Paulauskas, Rutenis] Vytautas Magnus Univ, Educ Res Inst, Educ Acad, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Figueira, Bruno] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Escola Saude & Desenvolvimento Humano, Evora, Portugal; [Figueira, Bruno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Schollhorn, Wolfgang] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Training & Movement Sci, Mainz, Germany; [Coutinho, Diogo] Univ Maia, UMAIA, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Figueira, Bruno] Vytautas Magnus Univ, Educ Res Inst, Educ Acad, Kaunas, Lithuania								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001735599800001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ha, Dae-Woon; Choi, Hokyung; Il-Young, Yu; Lim, Na-Dan; Kim, Taegyu								Effects of forward, backward, and combined resisted sprint training on sprint performance, sprint kinematics, and isokinetic knee muscle function in recreational soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261433231				2026	This study aimed to compare the effects of forward, backward, and combined (i.e., forward and backward exercises) resisted sprint training on sprint performance, sprint kinematics, and isokinetic knee muscle function in recreational soccer players. Thirty-six recreational male soccer players were randomly assigned to forward, backward, or combined resisted sprint training and completed a 6-week intervention (two sessions per week) using sled resistance corresponding to 20-55% of body mass. Sprint performance (5-20 m), spatiotemporal and kinematic sprint variables, and isokinetic knee muscle strength and power were assessed before and after training. Sprint performance over 5 m, 10 m, and 20 m improved significantly following the intervention (p < 0.001), with no significant time & times; group interactions. Trunk angle exhibited a significant time & times; group interaction (p < 0.05), with reductions observed in the forward and combined training groups only. No significant changes were observed in stride length or stride frequency. Knee muscle eccentric strength and concentric power increased significantly across all groups (p < 0.001), with comparable adaptation magnitudes. Forward, backward, and combined resisted sprint training effectively improved sprint performance and knee muscle function in recreational soccer players. Direction-specific trunk angle adaptations indicate distinct kinematic responses to different training modalities, supporting the potential use of combined resisted sprint training as a practical training option. Practically, resisted sprint training using light-to-moderate external loads appears effective for improving short-distance sprint performance and knee muscle function in amateur soccer players.		[Ha, Dae-Woon] Korea Assoc Athlet Federat, Korean Natl Team, Seoul, South Korea; [Choi, Hokyung] Pukyong Natl Univ, Inst Sport Dev & Promot, Busan, South Korea; [Il-Young, Yu] Pukyong Natl Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Busan, South Korea; [Lim, Na-Dan; Kim, Taegyu] Pukyong Natl Univ, Div Smart Healthcare, Major Marine Sports, 45 Yongso Ro, Busan 48513, South Korea; [Kim, Taegyu] Pukyong Natl Univ, Div Smart Healthcare, Major Marine Sports, 45 Yongso Ro, Busan 48513, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001735601400001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Feng, Liangzhu; Pueo, Basilio; Liu, Hongyou								Competing at sea level reduces high-intensity match running performance in elite U20 soccer players chronically training at moderate altitude								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261436801				2026	Elite soccer players increasingly live and train at moderate altitude, while inter-regional competition across different altitudes has become more frequent. However, evidence regarding whether transitioning from moderate altitude to sea-level competition influences match running performance remains limited. Twenty-three elite U20 male outfield players from a professional soccer club based at moderate altitude were monitored during friendly matches played at moderate altitude and sea level. Running performance was quantified using 10-Hz GPS devices, from which the following variables were derived: distance per minute (DPM), top speed (TS), high-speed running distance (HSR), sprint distance (SprintD), explosive accelerations (EAcc), and explosive decelerations (EDec). Generalized linear mixed models were used to examine the effect of competition altitude, with player names included as a random effect. Results showed that HSR (mean change; -32%; ES: -1.11), SprintD (-24%; -0.54), EAcc (-30%; -1.04), and EDec (-39%; -1.23) were substantially lower during matches played at sea level than during matches played at moderate altitude. These findings indicate that competing at sea level substantially influences match running performance in elite U20 male soccer players chronically trained at moderate altitude, particularly reducing high-intensity and explosive actions.		[Feng, Liangzhu; Liu, Hongyou] South China Normal Univ, Res Ctr Sports Performance Anal, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Pueo, Basilio] Univ Alicante, Hlth Phys Act & Sports Technol Hlth Tech, Fac Educ, Alicante, Spain; [Liu, Hongyou] South China Normal Univ, Res Ctr Sports Performance Anal, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001735010000001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Su, Wanyan; Nguyen, Thanh; Gu, Yu; Malik, Nawfal; Song, Yu								The effect of holding a costume on jump-landing performance and biomechanics in Lion Dance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2653618				2026	Lion Dance is a traditional Chinese performance art that requires dancers to execute numerous jump-landings while holding a costume, which restricts upper-body movement. The current study aimed to quantify the effects of holding a costume on lower limb biomechanics during both jumping and landing of countermovement jumps (CMJ) in Lion Dancers, with a comparison of non-dancers. Fifteen Lion Dancers and 20 non-dancers performed CMJs with and without holding a costume. Kinematic and kinetic data were collected using three-dimensional motion capture and force plates. Holding the costume significantly decreased jumping performance, characterised by smaller jump height, longer jumping duration, reduced trunk and hip flexion angles, and smaller hip and ankle moments in the jumping phase. In addition, holding the costume significantly reduced trunk and hip flexion angles, reduced peak ground reaction force, and prolonged landing duration in the landing phase. Lion Dancers exhibited greater jumping performance through deeper squat depth, greater hip and knee flexion angles in the jumping phase. The findings help us better understand the lower limb biomechanics of Lion Dance performances. Training programmes combining lower-limb strength, trunk control, and object-handling skills to optimise performance and reduce injury risk in Lion Dance and similar dual-task sports are suggested.		[Su, Wanyan; Nguyen, Thanh; Gu, Yu; Malik, Nawfal; Song, Yu] Univ Kansas, Dept Hlth Sport & Exercise Sci, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA; [Song, Yu] Univ Kansas, Dept Hlth Sport & Exercise Sci, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001734838200001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Teo, Jun Yang Felix; Mukherjee, Swarup								Acute effects of tissue flossing vs. neuromuscular electrical stimulation of the quadriceps femoris on countermovement jump performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2435	2443		10.1177/17479541261437690			AUG 2026	2026	This study investigated the acute effects of a single bout of tissue flossing (TF) and neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) of the quadriceps femoris on countermovement jump (CMJ) performance. Twenty trained male basketball players (age 23.45 +/- 2.13 years) participated in a randomized crossover study, completing an acute bout of either TF or NMES on two separate sessions. CMJ height was measured at baseline (session 1) and post-intervention (session 1 and 2), with the best of three trials in each session used for analysis. TF significantly increased CMJ height (69.71 +/- 6.50 cm) compared to baseline (67.90 +/- 6.38 cm; p < 0.001), while NMES significantly decreased CMJ height (66.77 +/- 6.43 cm; p = 0.001). These findings suggest that TF can be a useful pre-activity intervention for acute improvement of CMJ performance. Conversely, an acute bout of NMES was detrimental to immediate CMJ performance and may not be an effective standalone pre-activity intervention.		[Teo, Jun Yang Felix; Mukherjee, Swarup] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Dept, Singapore, Singapore; [Mukherjee, Swarup] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Dept, Singapore, Singapore								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001734270400001	45	Article; Article		
J	Nicholls, Scott B.; Groom, Ryan; Francis, John W.; Parmar, Nimai; James, Nic								From roots to branches: Developing relational, practical, and technical competencies in performance analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261433962				2026	Whilst performance analysis is a key component of sport science and coaching practice, the novelty of this research is its focus on the often-overlooked skills and competencies needed to operate effectively within applied environments. The study explored how performance analysts collaborate with coaches and athletes in high performance sport, emphasising the relational, practical and technical competencies that underpin successful practice. Thirty-eight (38) performance analysts (experience 7.2 +/- 3.8 years) in the elite UK performance analysis system completed semi-structured interviews (24 questions, lasting 38 +/- 12 min), which were analysed using Braun and Clarke (2006) six-step approach. Findings highlighted that effective performance analysis relies on technical expertise, practical skills, and relational competencies. Trust, openness, and credibility were central to collaboration, while technical skills such as data collection, analysis, and tailored feedback ensured outputs were accurate and actionable. Analysts navigated organisational, technological, and resource constraints, with soft skills including adaptability, resilience, and communication critical to overcoming barriers and achieving applied impact. A tree analogy illustrates the main thematic areas ([1] data and video, [2] analysis, [3] feedback, [4] trust and openness, [5] knowledge, [6] culture, and [7] challenges), their sub-components, and the interwoven soft/hard skills underpinning effective daily practice. These findings have clear implications for educational providers and practitioners across all career stages, offering practical guidance to enhance applied practice.		[Nicholls, Scott B.; Groom, Ryan] Univ Derby, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Derby, England; [Francis, John W.] Univ Worcester, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Worcester, England; [Parmar, Nimai; James, Nic] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Nicholls, Scott B.] Univ Derby, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Derby, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001733904000001	63	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Levin, Sofia; Tengman, Eva; Stenling, Andreas; Ivarsson, Andreas; Tervo, Taru								From leadership to autonomy: How teachers in school sports (floorball) facilitate students' competence in injury prevention								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261435455				2026	Teachers and coaches are key figures in promoting and sustaining injury-preventive behaviors among youth athletes. Although previous studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of injury prevention interventions in floorball, little is known about how these practices are implemented in elite floorball high schools. This study explored how teachers in school sports at Swedish certified elite floorball high schools integrate injury prevention into everyday coaching, focusing on their experiences and strategies. Semi-structured interviews with 15 teachers across Sweden were analyzed using qualitative content analysis to identify themes and underlying categories. Our analysis resulted in one overarching theme: "Facilitating students' development to become their own best coach," reflecting teachers' efforts to strengthen autonomy and competence through progression in injury-preventive training. Three sub-themes captured this process: navigating challenges and opportunities in the school-context, promoting students' own learning and sense of responsibility, and leading with intentionality. Teachers varied exercises, used open communication, and encouraged responsibility, while managing a major challenge-helping students balance total load from school training, club training, and academic stress. Findings highlight injury prevention as an inherent part of the school sport context and underscore the need for coordinated efforts among teachers, team coaches, and sport federations to manage athlete load effectively. These insights offer practical implications for coaching practice and contribute to critical reflection on how pedagogical strategies can support both performance and well-being.		[Levin, Sofia; Stenling, Andreas] Umea Univ, Dept Psychol, Umea, Sweden; [Levin, Sofia; Tengman, Eva; Stenling, Andreas; Tervo, Taru] Umea Univ, Umea Sch Sport Sci, Umea, Sweden; [Levin, Sofia] Umea Univ, Ind Doctoral Sch Res & Innovat, Umea, Sweden; [Tengman, Eva] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Umea, Sweden; [Stenling, Andreas; Ivarsson, Andreas] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway; [Ivarsson, Andreas] Halmstad Univ, Sch Hlth & Welf, Halmstad, Sweden; [Tervo, Taru] Umea Univ, Floorball Res & Dev Ctr, Umea, Sweden; [Levin, Sofia] Umea Univ, S-90187 Umea, Sweden								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001733907900001	53	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bezuglov, Eduard; Etemad, Omid; Malyakin, Georgiy; Vinogradov, Mikhail; Talibov, Oleg; Esteban-Garcia, Esther; Dolgalev, Ilya; Morgans, Ryland								Association Between Body Composition and Non-Contact Muscle Injury Risk in Elite Soccer Players: A Cox Proportional Hazards Model Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2636253				2026	The study investigated the association between body composition and non-contact muscle injury risk in elite soccer players. Thirty-three elite male outfield players from one Russian Premier League club were monitored across three seasons (2021/22-2023/24). Anthropometry (body-fat %, muscle-mass %, sum of 8 skinfolds, body mass, body mass index) was performed at six standardized time points per season by anthropometrist with The International Society for the Advancement of Kinanthropometry certificate. Non-contact muscle injuries were recorded to International Olympic Committee standards. Time-varying Andersen-Gill Cox models were fit on counting-process intervals with multiple imputation and player-clustered inference; covariates included age, position, seasonal period, exposure minutes, body-fat %, and fat-adjusted muscle residuals. Discrimination was summarized by Harrell's C-index. A total of 54 non-contact muscle injuries were observed in 23 players. Across endpoints, no covariate reached p < 0.05. The body-fat % effect (per 1%-point) was directionally positive for Minimal/Mild injuries (HR = 1.61; 95% CI 0.88-2.93), and closer to null for All (HR = 1.15; 95% CI 0.66-2.01) and Moderate/Severe (HR = 0.62; 95% CI 0.18-2.12). Discrimination was moderate: C-index 0.686 (All), 0.692 (Minimal/Mild), 0.789 (Moderate/Severe). In this cohort of elite soccer players, a higher body fat percentage demonstrated an associational signal with the hazard of minimal and mild muscle injuries, whereas no association was observed for moderate or severe events. Given the observational study design and the potential for residual confounding, these findings should be interpreted as associative rather than causal.		[Bezuglov, Eduard; Malyakin, Georgiy; Dolgalev, Ilya; Morgans, Ryland] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, Moscow, Russia; [Etemad, Omid; Malyakin, Georgiy; Vinogradov, Mikhail] PFC CSKA, Moscow, Russia; [Talibov, Oleg] Russian Univ Med, Moscow, Russia; [Esteban-Garcia, Esther] HMS FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Dubai, U Arab Emirates; [Malyakin, Georgiy] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, Dept Sports Med & Med Rehabil, Khoroshevskoe Highway 68 Bldg 5, Moscow 123007, Russia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001732891900001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Curth, Marcelo; Dantas, Italo; Pedragosa, Vera; Ferreira, Alan Carvalho Dias								Between pragmatism and symbolism: the sports footwear choices of lower-middle-class Generation Z in Brazil and Portugal								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-08-2025-0402				2026	PurposeThis study investigates how functional and symbolic utilities at both product and brand levels influence perceived quality, price sensitivity, and purchase intention in sports footwear consumption among lower-middle-income Generation Z consumers in Brazil and Portugal, considering cultural and socioeconomic contexts.Design/methodology/approachA quantitative cross-national survey was conducted with 259 Generation Z consumers from Brazil and Portugal. Validated scales were used to measure functional and symbolic utilities, perceived quality, price sensitivity, and purchase intention. Data were analysed using multi-group Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modelling (PLS-SEM), complemented by psychographic cluster analysis.FindingsValue formation differs across contexts. In Brazil, functional utilities at both product and brand levels had a significant influence on perceived quality, suggesting a pragmatic consumption orientation. In Portugal, symbolic product utility played a more prominent role in shaping perceived quality. Price sensitivity was not directly associated with functional utility in either country, but it was positively associated with the symbolic utility of the brand in Brazil. Both perceived quality and price sensitivity were positively associated with purchase intention in both markets. Psychographic analysis identified six distinct consumer profiles in each country, with Brazilian consumers displaying stronger emotional brand engagement, while Portuguese consumers showed more utilitarian and sceptical orientations.Practical implicationsIn Brazil, branding should emphasise functional performance and value for money. In Portugal, symbolic positioning and lifestyle alignment are more effective when supported by functional credibility.Originality/valueThis study contributes to sports marketing and consumer behaviour by demonstrating that value formation among Generation Z is segmented and context-dependent, rather than universal.		[Curth, Marcelo] Business Adm Grad Program, Novo Hamburgo, Brazil; [Curth, Marcelo; Dantas, Italo] Feevale Univ, Cultural Proc & Express Grad Program, Novo Hamburgo, Brazil; [Pedragosa, Vera] Autonomous Univ Lisbon, Res Ctr Econ & Business Sci, Lisbon, Portugal; [Ferreira, Alan Carvalho Dias] Polytech Inst Santarem, SPRINT Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Sport Sci Sch Rio Maior, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Curth, Marcelo] Business Adm Grad Program, Novo Hamburgo, Brazil; [Curth, Marcelo] Feevale Univ, Cultural Proc & Express Grad Program, Novo Hamburgo, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001731750100001	122	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ong, Jacky Hou An; Sahrom, Sofyan; Washif, Jad Adrian; Muhamad, Ahmad Munir Che; Hwa, Michael Chia Yong; Trabelsi, Khaled; Aziz, Abdul Rashid								Ramadan fasting has no significant impact on maximal strength and power attributes in well-trained Muslim martial art athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261431033				2026	Previous research on Muslim athletes' strength and power during the observance of Ramadan fasting possessed several methodological issues and the outcome was equivocal. Thus, the aim of this study was to re-examine the impact of Ramadan fasting on the fasted Muslim athlete's strength and power capabilities, employing multi-joint dynamic exercises and through utilisation of devices that were sensitive to small changes and capable of concealing performance outcomes. Nine well-trained males of Muslim faith, national-level 'Pencak Silat' martial art athletes were assessed for peak force, average force and maximum rate of force development during four strength and power tests, with each conducted separately: 1) isometric mid-thigh pull, 2) isometric bench-press push, 3) loaded squat jump and 4) bench-throw. All exercises were performed using a force plate and linear position transducer connected to a computerized data acquisition software. Athletes performed the exercises during the last week of the Ramadan month (i.e., RAM condition) and one week after the end of Ramadan month (i.e., Control, CON condition). Pre-exercise meals prior to the trials were standardized, sleeping duration was tracked using actigraphy and volume load was used to monitor resistance training load. Body composition, daytime sleepiness, mood, urine specific gravity, blood glucose and lactate were also measured. Results indicated that there were no significant differences between RAM and CON condition in all the variables measured during the four strength and power tests (all P > 0.05). In conclusion, Ramadan fasting may not impair maximal strength and power in trained athletes when exertions were performed independently.		[Ong, Jacky Hou An; Sahrom, Sofyan; Aziz, Abdul Rashid] Sport Singapore, High Performance Sport Inst, Sport Sci & Sport Med, 3 Stadium Dr, Singapore 397630, Singapore; [Washif, Jad Adrian] Natl Sports Inst Malaysia, Sports Performance Div, High Performance Branch, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Muhamad, Ahmad Munir Che] Univ Sains Malaysia, Adv Med & Dent Inst, George Town, Malaysia; [Muhamad, Ahmad Munir Che] Univ Utara Malaysia, Akad Golf Nasl, Sintok Kedah Darul Aman, Malaysia; [Hwa, Michael Chia Yong] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Trabelsi, Khaled] Univ Sfax, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Sfax, Sfax, Tunisia; [Aziz, Abdul Rashid] Sport Singapore, High Performance Sport Inst, Sport Sci & Sport Med, 3 Stadium Dr, Singapore 397630, Singapore								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001732559800001	97	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Goncalves, Luiz Guilherme; Sandi, Paulo Roberto; Kobal, Ronaldo; Lins, Ageu da Silva; Neves, Paulo Eduardo Costa; Rabelo, Felipe Nunes; Oliveira, Julia; Oliveira, Romario; Domingues, Henrique Cristane; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Aquino, Rodrigo								Contextual factors modulate match running performance in elite women's soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261429762				2026	This study examined the effects of match location, match outcome, opposition quality, competition phase, goal-related events, and goal difference on running performance in the Brazilian Women's Soccer League, as well as the combined influence and relative contribution of these contextual factors to performance variance. Sixty-seven elite female players from four teams (Team 1-4: n = 18; 15; 15; 19) were monitored across 68 matches in the 2024 Brazilian Women's First Division League, yielding 403 Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS)-derived observations. Sprinting distance was greater in losses than in wins or draws (p = 0.001-0.049), while draws elicited higher deceleration values than wins (p = 0.015). Intermediate- and low-difficulty matches produced higher total distances (p < 0.001-0.007) and high-speed running (p < 0.001-0.014) than high-difficulty matches, with low-difficulty matches showing higher values than intermediate ones (p = 0.002). Players covered more high-speed distance in the knockout phase than during the group phase (p = 0.002). After scoring, players performed more decelerations than after conceding (p = 0.011). One-goal wins involved greater high-speed running, sprinting, and acceleration than matches decided by larger margins (p = 0.002-0.013). Stepwise regression analyses indicated that opposition quality showed the largest incremental contribution to explained variance for total distance (adjusted R-2 = 0.169; 16.9%) and PlayerLoad (adjusted R-2 = 0.066; 6.6%). Overall, match running performance in elite Brazilian women's soccer is strongly modulated by contextual factors, with opposition quality and goal difference explaining most variance, while match location shows no meaningful impact. Thus, running performance must be interpreted in context.		[Goncalves, Luiz Guilherme; Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Ctr Phys Educ & Sport CEFD, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, LabSport, Vitoria, Brazil; [Sandi, Paulo Roberto] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Football & Futsal Res & Dev Grp, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Kobal, Ronaldo] Sport Club Corinthians Paulista, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lins, Ageu da Silva; Neves, Paulo Eduardo Costa] Botafogo Futebol & Regatas, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Rabelo, Felipe Nunes; Oliveira, Julia] Red Bull Bragantino, Braganca Paulista, Brazil; [Oliveira, Romario; Domingues, Henrique Cristane] Clube Regatas Flamengo, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Polytech Univ Coimbra, Appl Res Inst I2A, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Coimbra, Portugal; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Brazilian Natl Football Confederat, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Ctr Phys Educ & Sport CEFD, Ave Fernando Ferrari 514, BR-29075910 Vitoria, ES, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001732289000001	63	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bandyopadhyay, Rhitankar; Bhattacharjee, Dibyojyoti								Applications of higher order Markov models and Pressure Index to strategize controlled run chases in Twenty20 cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261430809				2026	In limited overs cricket, the team batting first posts a target score for the team batting second to achieve in order to win the match. The team batting second is constrained by decreasing resources in terms of number of balls left and number of wickets in hand in the process of reaching the target as the second innings progresses. The Pressure Index, a measure created by researchers in the past, serves as a tool for quantifying the level of pressure that a team batting second encounters in limited overs cricket. Through a ball-by-ball analysis of the second innings, it reveals how effectively the team batting second in a limited-over game proceeds towards their target. This research employs higher order Markov chains to examine the strategies employed by successful teams during run chases in Twenty20 matches. By studying the trends in successful run chases spanning over 16 years and utilizing a significant dataset of 6537 Twenty20 matches, specific strategies are identified. Consequently, an efficient approach to successful run chases in Twenty20 cricket is formulated, effectively limiting the Pressure Index to [ 0.5 , 3.5 ] or even further down under 0.5 as early as possible. The innovative methodology adopted in this research offers valuable insights for cricket teams looking to enhance their performance in run chases.		[Bandyopadhyay, Rhitankar] Indian Stat Inst, Kolkata, India; [Bhattacharjee, Dibyojyoti] Assam Univ, Dept Stat, Silchar, India; [Bandyopadhyay, Rhitankar] Indian Stat Inst, Kolkata, India								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001731446600001	23	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Durmus, Tugay; Akca, Firat								Effects of player rotation strategies on autonomic regulation, perceived exertion, and recovery in basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261434843				2026	Basketball is a high-intensity intermittent sport in which player rotation and substitution strategies are essential for managing fatigue and sustaining performance. The aim of this study was to investigate the acute effects of four distinct rotation strategies (1-, 2-, 3-, and 4-min work-rest intervals) on physiological, psychophysiological, and perceptual responses in basketball players. Fourteen professional male basketball players completed four randomized, counterbalanced, crossover 5v5 simulated game conditions. Heart rate (HR), heart rate variability (HRV), perceived exertion (RPE), session workload (sRPE), perceived fatigue, and exercise enjoyment were assessed across conditions. All rotation strategies elicited substantial cardiovascular stress compared with resting values, reflected by marked reductions in time domain HRV parameters, indicating sympathetic predominance during play. Maximal heart rate differed significantly between rotation conditions, suggesting cumulative cardiovascular stress with longer on-court durations. Shorter rotations were associated with better preservation of parasympathetic activity, as evidenced by higher RMSSD values, whereas longer rotations resulted in greater perceived exertion and internal load. Notably, exercise enjoyment remained stable across all rotation strategies. These findings demonstrate that rotation structure significantly influences autonomic regulation and perceptual responses in basketball. Shorter rotations may be advantageous for maintaining autonomic flexibility and supporting rapid recovery during high-intensity phases of play, while longer rotations may be useful for developing tolerance to competitive fatigue. Evidence based and individualized rotation strategies to optimize performance, manage fatigue, and support athlete wellbeing is essential in competitive basketball.		[Durmus, Tugay; Akca, Firat] Ankara Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, TR-06830 Ankara, Turkiye; [Durmus, Tugay] Ankara Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, TR-06110 Ankara, Turkiye; [Durmus, Tugay] Ankara Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, TR-06830 Ankara, Turkiye; [Durmus, Tugay] Ankara Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, TR-06110 Ankara, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001731440900001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Noel, Cedric; Guillaume, Jean-Pierre; Maurelli, Olivier; Prioux, Jacques								From cut-off to kick-off: Dynamic modeling and mitigating of the relative age effect								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261424233				2026	This study introduces a dynamical model to analyze and mitigate the Relative Age Effect (RAE) among male handball players in the French federation, from youth to professional levels. The RAE arises from age-based grouping, leading to psychological and behavioural (motor) differences among young athletes. Using system dynamics, the model simulates player movement and cumulative experience across cohorts, calibrated with data from the F & eacute;d & eacute;ration Fran & ccedil;aise de Handball. The model incorporates a reinforcing feedback loop that amplifies initial advantages in size and weight, enhancing perceived skills and training opportunities. Various policy scenarios are explored to assess their impact on reducing the RAE. Results suggest that modifying cut-off dates could be the most effective strategy, potentially improving talent detection and reducing attrition in young cohorts. This research offers valuable insights for decision-makers aiming to address the RAE in handball and other team sports.		[Noel, Cedric] Univ Lorraine, IUT Thionville Yutz, Imp AlfredKastler, F-57970 Yutz, France; [Noel, Cedric] Univ Luxembourg, Math Dept, Esch Sur Alzette, Luxembourg; [Guillaume, Jean-Pierre; Prioux, Jacques] Univ Rennes 2 Bruz, Hlth Lab, Movement, Sport, Rennes, France; [Maurelli, Olivier] Univ Montpellier, Muscular Dynam & Metab Lab DMEM, UMR 866, Montpellier, France; [Maurelli, Olivier] French Handball Federat, Res & Performance Unit, Creteil, France; [Prioux, Jacques] Ecole Normale Super Rennes, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Bruz, France; [Noel, Cedric] Univ Lorraine, IUT Thionville Yutz, Imp AlfredKastler, F-57970 Yutz, France; [Noel, Cedric] Univ Luxembourg, Math Dept, Esch Sur Alzette, Luxembourg								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001731440400001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hamad, Maziar J.; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Thorborg, Kristian; Serrano, Antonio Martinez; Spyrou, Konstantinos								Match-Related Acute and Residual Changes of Hip-Adduction Strength in Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				75	86		10.5114/jhk/204377			APR 2026	2026	The aim of this study was to investigate the changes in isometric hip-adductor strength (ADDiso) following official matches in youth soccer players. In this observational study, eighteen young soccer players (age: 18.03 +/- 0.53 years; body mass: 69.03 +/- 5.70 kg; body height: 1.75 +/- 0.06 m) participated. ADDiso and match external demands were measured using a hand-held dynamometer and foot-mounted inertial measurement units, respectively, during official matches (match 1, M1 and match 2, M2) at pre-match (Pre), post-match (Post), and 24 hours post (+24h). In M1, ADDiso decreased significantly from Pre to Post (p = 0.003, ES = -1.14), then increased Post to +24h (p = 0.002, ES = 1.49). In M2, ADDiso decreased significantly Pre to Post (p < 0.001, ES = -1.41) then increased Post to +24h (p < 0.001, ES = 2.39). Non-significant differences were found Pre to +24h for M1 (p = 1.00, ES = 0.09), while the M2 +24h time point was significantly higher than Pre (p = 0.039, ES = 0.83). Regarding external match demands, players performed significantly higher releases per min in M1 compared to M2 (p = 0.024, ES = 1.10); conversely, intense speed changes per min (accelerations and decelerations) were significantly higher in M2 (p = 0.050, ES = -0.93). ADDiso decreased post-match on average between 12 and 22% in this sample of youth soccer players. The average reduction in strength was larger after M2 which may be explained by different external demands like more intense speed changes. Further research into different game intensities and their potential influence on hip-adduction strength seems relevant.		[Hamad, Maziar J.; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Serrano, Antonio Martinez; Spyrou, Konstantinos] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Hamad, Maziar J.; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Serrano, Antonio Martinez; Spyrou, Konstantinos] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Serrano, Antonio Martinez; Spyrou, Konstantinos] Strength & Conditioning Soc SCS, Murcia, Spain; [Thorborg, Kristian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Amager & Hvidovre Hosp, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Dept Orthoped Surg,Dept Sports, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Hamad, Maziar J.] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600006	33	Article; Article		
J	Bejm, Cezary; Klimek, Andrzej								Dynamics of Change in Aerobic Capacity in 7-12 Year-Old Children Playing Soccer in Relation to Training Load								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				103	116		10.5114/jhk/207460			APR 2026	2026	This study monitored changes in aerobic capacity in 7-12-year-old youth soccer players over three years, dividing them into two groups: Group 1 (ages 7-10) and Group 2 (ages 10-12). Key variables, maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max) and the anaerobic threshold (AT), were measured using an incremental treadmill test. The data analysis revealed that training did not significantly influence aerobic capacity, with no strong correlation between training intensity and VO2max, except between ages 7 and 8 (r-Pearson coefficient between -0.52 and 0.66). VO2max differences between groups (Group 1: age 7, 46.2 +/- 4.0; age 8, 59.1 +/- 4.5; age 9, 63.4 +/- 6.8; age 10, 59.5 +/- 4.2 ml/kg/min; Group 2: age 10, 53.1 +/- 8.5; age 11, 61.5 +/- 5.1; age 12, 62.7 +/- 5.7 ml/kg/min) appeared to be more related to individual developmental paths and genetics than to training or pubertal stages. There was no significant effect of training on the anaerobic threshold, indicating stability during submaximal efforts across the observed period. However, aerobic capacity improvements were noted, particularly in prolonged exercise duration and increased maximal aerobic speed (MAS), likely due to enhanced running efficiency and motor coordination. MAS for Group 1 increased from 8.7 km/h at age 7 to 9.5 km/h at age 10, while for Group 2, it rose from 8.5 km/h at age 10 to 9.2 km/h at age 12. This suggests significant potential for aerobic development during these early training years.		[Bejm, Cezary; Klimek, Andrzej] Univ Phys Culture, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Krakow, Poland; [Bejm, Cezary] Univ Phys Culture, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Krakow, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600008	34	Article; Article		
J	Laxdal, Aron; Byrkjedal, Per Thomas; Ivarsson, Andreas; Sigurgeirsson, Olafur; Haugen, Tommy								Fact or Fiction? Examining the Veracity of Common Myths Related to 7-meter Throws in Handball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				173	182		10.5114/jhk/204312			APR 2026	2026	There are several long-standing beliefs that persist in sport despite little or no evidence of them being true. The aim of this study was to assess the veracity of two such beliefs related to 7-meter (7-m) throws in handball: 1) that the fouled players should not take their own 7-m shots as their ability to score is compromised, and 2) that changing the 7-m shooter after a miss is more likely to lead to a goal than letting the player who missed try again. To assess the veracity of these beliefs 10,593 7-m shots from the Icelandic elite division were analyzed using a Bayesian three-level analysis. The results revealed that neither taking your own 7-m shot after being fouled nor taking a 7-m shot after missing the attempt appeared to have a negative effect on the outcome of 7-m shots. Coaches should therefore be able to let their most proficient 7-m shooters take any 7-m shot, regardless of preceding events, without any functional cost.		[Laxdal, Aron; Byrkjedal, Per Thomas; Ivarsson, Andreas; Haugen, Tommy] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway; [Ivarsson, Andreas] Halmstad Univ, Ctr Res Welf Hlth & Sport, Halmstad, Sweden; [Sigurgeirsson, Olafur] HBStatz, Seltjarnarnes, Iceland; [Laxdal, Aron] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600013	56	Article; Article		
J	Keerasomboon, Taspol; Jamkrajang, Parunchaya; Limroongreungrat, Weerawat; Chrunarm, Thammanunt; Soga, Toshiaki; Hirose, Norikazu								Characteristics of Hamstring Electromyographic Activity and the Break-Point Angle during Nordic Hamstring Exercise at Different Ankle Positions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				133	143		10.5114/jhk/208232			APR 2026	2026	Nordic hamstring exercise (NHex) is well-known to reduce hamstring injury risk. However, the semitendinosus (ST) muscle is more activated than the biceps femoris long head (BFlh) muscle during NHex, though the BFlh muscle is more vulnerable to injury. It is important to investigate different NHex settings that may increase its effectiveness. This study aimed to examine the electromyographic (EMG) activity of the hamstring muscles and the break-point angle (BPA) during the NHex with the ankle joint positioned in plantar flexion (PF), dorsiflexion (DF) (neutral), and DF (neutral) with support. Twelve male volunteers without hamstring injuries in the four years preceding the experiment (age: 20.58 +/- 0.9 years; body height: 171.1 +/- 7.8 cm; body mass: 66.9 +/- 12.2 kg) took part in the experiment. Participants randomly performed two sessions of the following exercise tests: NHex with ankle DF, NHex with ankle DF with sole support (DFS), and NHex with ankle PF. The EMG activity of the hamstring, BFlh, and ST muscles was measured for both the dominant and non-dominant limbs. The BPA was recorded using an IMU sensor. A repeated measures analysis of variance was conducted to assess hamstring muscle activity and the BPA. There was a significant main effect of EMG activity (p < 0.05) during the NHex under different ankle joint conditions for the BFlh in both the dominant and non-dominant legs. The findings indicated that EMG activity significantly increased during PF (p < 0.05) relative to DF and DFS for the BFlh in the dominant leg. Additionally, there were no significant differences in the BPA across different ankle positions (p > 0.05). This study demonstrated that the NHex elicited greater BFlh activity in PF than in DF and DFS.		[Keerasomboon, Taspol; Jamkrajang, Parunchaya; Limroongreungrat, Weerawat; Chrunarm, Thammanunt] Mahidol Univ, Coll Sports Sci & Technol, Bangkok, Thailand; [Soga, Toshiaki] Shibaura Inst Technol, Grad Sch Engn & Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Soga, Toshiaki] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600010	41	Article; Article		
J	Deghaies, Kaies; Lussiana, Thibault; Touzard, Pierre; Fourel, Loic; Ozan, Simon; Brechbuhl, Cyril; Gindre, Cyrille; Bideau, Benoit; Martin, Caroline								Tennis Serve Constraints Delimit but Do Not Prohibit Individual Movement Strategies among Professional Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				45	55		10.5114/jhk/203795			APR 2026	2026	In sport, copying the motion technique of top-level athletes, which is regarded as perfect and optimal, is a goal often targeted by coaches for their athletes. However, inter-individual variability has been shown to remain in sport motions even at the elite level, and its analysis is important to identify the different motor strategies used to respond to the same motor task. This study aimed to assess inter-individual variability of Center of Mass (CoM) vertical kinematics during the serve among a homogeneous population of twenty-two professional tennis players and to investigate its links with serve performance indicators. Vertical CoM trajectories, impact height and racket head velocity were analyzed using a marker-based motion capture system. Inter-individual variability was assessed using the coefficient of variation. The phase duration, the vertical CoM displacement and its maximal velocity showed greater variability during the loading phase compared to the acceleration phase. Strong correlations were found between vertical CoM parameters during the acceleration phase and ball impact height, but not during the loading phase. The serving task constraints seem to offer limited scope for inter-individual variability and tend to delimit CoM movement strategy during the acceleration phase. Conversely, individual strategies of CoM kinematics differ among professional players during the loading phase, which could be the result of the expression of organismic constraints. This inter-individual variability observed during the loading phase points towards a non-unique way of serving and the need for individualized coaching exercises.		[Deghaies, Kaies; Touzard, Pierre; Fourel, Loic; Ozan, Simon; Bideau, Benoit; Martin, Caroline] Univ Rennes, Lab M2S, Inria, Bruz, France; [Deghaies, Kaies] Volodalen, Res & Dev Dept, Chaveria, France; [Lussiana, Thibault; Gindre, Cyrille] Univ Franche Comte, MPFRPV, Besancon, France; [Lussiana, Thibault; Gindre, Cyrille] Univ Franche Comte, Exercise Performance Hlth Innovat, Besancon, France; [Brechbuhl, Cyril] French Tennis Federat, Paris, France; [Brechbuhl, Cyril] Volodalen SwissSportLab, Res & Dev Dept, Aigle, Switzerland; [Deghaies, Kaies] Univ Rennes, Lab M2S, Inria, Bruz, France; [Deghaies, Kaies] Volodalen, Res & Dev Dept, Chaveria, France								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600004	37	Article; Article		
J	Saglam, Ali F.; Aydin, Erbil M.; Demirkan, Erkan; Gundogan, Burak; Favre, Michael								Effects of Surface Stability on Muscle Activation during Plank Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				35	43		10.5114/jhk/203417			APR 2026	2026	This study aimed to compare rectus abdominis (RA) and anterior deltoid (AD) muscle activation during plank exercise performed on different unstable surfaces. Sixteen recreationally active males participated in this study. A ground surface was used as a stable surface (SS), whereas gymnastics rings (GR) and the Bosu ball (BB) were used as unstable surfaces. Under the dual instability (DI) condition, participants placed their feet in the GR and elbows on the BB. Participants performed plank exercise under four different conditions. Muscle activation was measured in the upper rectus abdominis (URA), lower rectus abdominis (LRA), and anterior deltoid (AD) muscles during plank exercise. Oneway repeated-measures analysis of variance was used to statistically compare muscle activation among the conditions. The level of significance was set at p < 0.05. Analysis showed that URA muscle activity was significantly greater under the DI condition than under the SS and BB conditions. In addition, URA muscle activity was greater under the GR than the SS condition. LRA muscle activity was significantly greater under the DI condition compared to the other conditions. In contrast, AD muscle activity was greater under the SS than the DI condition. In conclusion, these findings indicated that RA muscle activation was greatest on the dual instability surface, while AD muscle activation was greatest on the stable surface. Dual instability plank exercise may be a better choice than single instability and stable surface plank exercise for URA and LRA activation.		[Saglam, Ali F.] Canakkale Onsekiz Mart Univ, Inst Postgrad Studies, Canakkale, Turkiye; [Aydin, Erbil M.; Demirkan, Erkan; Gundogan, Burak] Hitit Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Corum, Turkiye; [Favre, Michael] Univ Michigan, Intercollegiate Athlet, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Aydin, Erbil M.] Hitit Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Corum, Turkiye								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600003	25	Article; Article		
J	Sal-de-Rellan, Alejandro; Ben Brahim, Mehdi; Martin, Victor; Zidi, Najet; Hernaiz-Sanchez, Ariadna								How Different Physical Qualities Influence Repeated Sprint Ability Tests in Elite Youth Soccer Players?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				183	194		10.5114/jhk/203832			APR 2026	2026	The aim of this study was to examine the relationships between different repeated sprint ability (RSA) tests and to determine whether all RSA tests were related to the same physical qualities. Twenty-five young elite soccer players (age: 17.1 +/- 0.9 years; body height: 172.5 +/- 4.6 cm; body mass: 68.1 +/- 3.9 kg) participated in this study. Participants completed five RSA tests (i.e., RSA 20 + 20, RSA-linear, RSARANDOM, RSA 15 + 15, and RSA-Curve), a linear sprint test (i.e., a 30-m linear sprint with split times recorded at the 5th and the 10th m ), a curve sprint test (CV_Best and CV_Worst), a change of direction (COD) test, and vertical jump tests (i.e., SJ, CMJ and DJ tests) during a training camp. The main results showed moderate relationships between RSA-RANDOM and RSA 20 + 20 (r = 0.410; p < 0.05) and between RSA-Linear and RSA 15 + 15 (r = 0.475; p < 0.05). In addition, negative relationships were observed between RSA-Curve and the other RSA tests. Additionally, the RSA-Linear test obtained moderate relationships with a 10-m sprint (r = 0.485; p < 0.05), CV_Best (r = 0.484; p < 0.05), CV_Worst (r = 0.410; p < 0.05) and the CMJ (r = 0.403; p < 0.05), and the RSA-RANDOM test with COD (RSA(total): r = 0.414; p < 0.05; RSA(best): r = 0.489; p < 0.05). These findings may help coaches and sports scientists optimize training and performance assessment by identifying the most suitable RSA test for specific variables. In addition, training focused on improving different physical qualities can positively impact RSA performance.		[Sal-de-Rellan, Alejandro; Hernaiz-Sanchez, Ariadna] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Law Educ & Humanities, Dept Educ & Educ Innovat, Madrid, Spain; [Ben Brahim, Mehdi; Zidi, Najet] Prince Sultan Univ, Hlth & Phys Educ Dept, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; [Martin, Victor] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Martin, Victor] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600014	42	Article; Article		
J	Droguett, Felipe Andres Bermudez; Festa, Raul Ricardo; Quintana, Naomy Alexandra Telchi; Gomez-Lopez, Jose; Ojeda, Alvaro Huerta; Farias-Valenzuela, Claudio; Giakoni-Ramirez, Frano; Jofre-Saldia, Emilio								Objective Accuracy in Estimating Repetitions in Reserve in the Back Squat: An Analysis between Experienced vs. Novice Subjects								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				145	158		10.5114/jhk/205218			APR 2026	2026	This study aimed to objectively compare the accuracy of estimating repetitions in reserve (RIR) in the back squat among subjects with different levels of experience in resistance training (RT). Sixteen healthy adults (24.31 +/- 4.94 years, 4 women and 12 men) were divided into the experienced (N = 8; >= 18 months of experience) and the novice (N = 8; <18 months of experience) in RT. Each group performed one set to muscle failure (day 1), and one RIR3 and RIR1 (day 2) of Smith machine back squats with a load of 70% 1RM. In addition, mean propulsive velocity (MPV) and the rating of perceived exertion (RPE; 0-10 scale) were assessed to individually objectify the RIR. There were no differences in accuracy for estimating both RIR3 and RIR1 between groups (p > 0.05, d >= 0.03). Furthermore, there were no differences in MPV, velocity loss, the RPE, and total of repetitions to muscle failure, RIR3, and RIR1 sets (p > 0.05, d >= -0.07). Overall, our findings suggest that RT experience does not influence the accuracy of estimating RIRs in the back squat, which is objectively supported by individualized MPV and the RPE. Previous familiarity with high-level effort may play a key role in accuracy beyond RT experience.		[Droguett, Felipe Andres Bermudez; Gomez-Lopez, Jose] Mot Human Performance Lab, Santiago, Chile; [Festa, Raul Ricardo] Sports Performance Res, Dept Exercise Sci, Rosario, Santa Fe, Argentina; [Quintana, Naomy Alexandra Telchi] Univ Austral Chile, Fac Filosofia & Human, Valdivia, Chile; [Ojeda, Alvaro Huerta] Univ Las Amer, Nucl Invest Salud Act Fis & Deporte ISAFYD, Vina Del Mar, Chile; [Farias-Valenzuela, Claudio] Univ Santiago Chile USACH, Escuela Ciencias Act Fis Deporte & Salud, Santiago, Chile; [Giakoni-Ramirez, Frano] Univ Andres Bello, Fac Educ & Ciencias Sociales, Santiago, Chile; [Jofre-Saldia, Emilio] Univ San Sebastian, Escuela Ciencias Act Fis, Fac Ciencias Rehabily Cal Vida, Santiago, Chile; [Jofre-Saldia, Emilio] Univ San Sebastian, Escuela Ciencias Act Fis, Fac Ciencias Rehabily Cal Vida, Santiago, Chile								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600011	46	Article; Article		
J	Anderson, Alyssa; Riley, Zachary A.								Analysis of Fitness Testing for Injury Risk Reduction in Firefighters								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	2			142	149		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000956			APR 2026	2026	The demanding and hazardous nature of firefighting necessitates a fitness testing framework that directly addresses the unique physiological challenges of the profession. This paper sought to identify gaps in the current fitness testing and training environment that are focused on cardiovascular, respiratory, muscular endurance, and muscular strength components of fitness and to advocate for a targeted, occupation specific fitness testing approach that aligns with the physiological challenges firefighters face. Ultimately, implementation of these plans should reduce the risk of injury and death and improve operational efficiency.		[Anderson, Alyssa; Riley, Zachary A.] Indiana Univ Indianapolis, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA; [Riley, Zachary A.] Indiana Univ Indianapolis, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001732326900007	48	Article; Article		
J	Carroll, Ryan M.; Ellis, Carrie E.								Reviewing a Physiologically Specific Tactical Training Program for Military Women								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	2			220	226		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000950			APR 2026	2026	Key physiological differences exist between men and women, including differences in anatomy, hormones, and nutritional needs. Relevant literature that describes how these physiological differences may influence training and performance for women is reviewed and examined through the lens of military performance, particularly fitness testing and basic operational capabilities, such as ruck marching. The article will describe how this information can influence programming and training for women in the military. Finally, the article will outline example cases of 2 women at different career stages, including at the onset of initial entry training and undertaking a senior leadership role in menopause. By synthesizing current research and practical experiences, this article provides insights that can guide the development of evidence-based training to support the health, readiness, and success of military women throughout their careers.		[Carroll, Ryan M.] JAG Consulting, Pensacola, FL USA; [Ellis, Carrie E.] DeSales Univ, Sport & Exercise Physiol Dept, Center Valley, PA 18034 USA; [Ellis, Carrie E.] DeSales Univ, Sport & Exercise Physiol Dept, Center Valley, PA 18034 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001732326900001	50	Article; Article		
J	McMillian, Josh								Power Training for Older Women: Strategies to Improve Function, Confidence, and Fall Resistance								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	2			158	166		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000954			APR 2026	2026	Muscle power declines more rapidly than strength with age, making power development a critical focus for older women at risk of falls, mobility loss, and reduced confidence. Power, defined as the ability to generate force quickly, is a stronger predictor of functional independence than strength alone. After menopause, women experience accelerated type II muscle fiber loss, hormonal shifts, and reduced neuromuscular efficiency, all of which impair daily movement. This article provides strength and conditioning professionals with a practical framework for implementing power training in older women. It includes evidence-based recommendations for exercise selection, load and volume parameters, progression strategies, and safety screening. Programming strategies emphasize movement speed, reactive ability, and fall resistance while accounting for orthopedic limitations and individual ability levels. Special considerations include regression options for deconditioned clients, age-appropriate coaching cues, and guidance on protein intake and hormonal changes. Sample progressions and hypothetical client profiles illustrate how power training can be scaled across a range of functional abilities. By integrating high-velocity training into well-structured programs, practitioners can help older women move with greater speed, confidence, and control, improving function, reducing fall risk, and enhancing long-term quality of life.		[McMillian, Josh] Clayton High Sch, Sch Dist Clayton, Clayton, MO 27520 USA; [McMillian, Josh] Univ Missouri St Louis, Coll Educ, St Louis, MO 63121 USA; [McMillian, Josh] Clayton High Sch, Sch Dist Clayton, Clayton, MO 27520 USA; [McMillian, Josh] Univ Missouri St Louis, Coll Educ, St Louis, MO 63121 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001732326900013	45	Article; Article		
J	Conde-Ripoll, Rafael; Mauro, Mario; Martin-Miguel, Ivan; Munoz, Diego; Escudero-Tena, Adrian; Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino J.								Winning patterns under special conditions in elite men's padel players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261432102				2026	Official elite padel competitions are typically held under similar conditions, including the surface and the rule allowing two serves to start the rally. What happens when the competition is played under special constraints? This study aimed to describe the temporal structure, number of shots per point, percentage of serve in, percentage of winners and errors, and the distribution of points won by the serving and returning team in elite men's padel played under modified conditions (single-serve rule, clay court surface, and golden point), and to compare these performance indicators between winning and losing pairs. Nine matches from the 2024 Argentinian Padel Tour team competition were analysed, totalling 1250 points (inter-observer K similar to 0.963, intra-observer K similar to 0.983). Success in elite men's padel relies on offensive efficiency and rapid resolution capacity, with differences in rally duration and effective length (p < 0.05) between match-losing and winning pairs, especially when they play as receiver (95% CI losers: 12.99-13.87 vs 95% CI winners: 9.89-11.73). Whilst serve appeared not to affect error probability directly (95% CI OR: 0.795-1.243), its contribution increased when the effect was adjusted for the final match score, with a decrease in error rate to 42.3% (95% CI OR: 0.437-0.764). Winning pairs are distinguished by adopting an aggressive mindset and managing risk primarily during the opening moments of the point, when error probability is at its peak. Coaches should implement game situations that reward aggressiveness from the return, seeking to transform defence into attack before the tenth shot, as this is where matches are effectively decided.		[Conde-Ripoll, Rafael] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Med Hlth & Sports, Dept Sports Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Mauro, Mario] Univ Bologna, Dept Sci Life Qual Studies, Rimini, Italy; [Martin-Miguel, Ivan; Munoz, Diego; Escudero-Tena, Adrian] Univ Extremadura, Sport Sci Fac, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Caceres, Spain; [Martin-Miguel, Ivan] Univ Francisco Vitoria, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino J.] Univ Murcia, Sport Sci Fac, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Mauro, Mario] Univ Bologna, Dept Sci Life Qual Studies, Rimini, Italy								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001730816200001	53	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Barden, Craig; Grant, James; McMaster, Charlotte; Howse, Andy; De Ste Croix, Mark								Injury risk and prevention in English basketball: Knowledge, perceptions and behaviours of players and coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261427004				2026	Basketball is the second most participated sport in England. However, little is known about the injury profile of players or the knowledge, perceptions and behaviour of basketball players and coaches towards injury risk and prevention. A cross-sectional survey was administered to coaches and players at the end of the season (2022-2023, 2023-24). Participants were required to have played/coached in England during the season and be 16 years of age or older. A 7-item Likert scale was used to assess knowledge and perceptions of injury risk and prevention. Questions around previous injuries and behaviour were answered using multiple-choice answers. Data are presented descriptively, with a Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney and 2 & times; 2 chi(2) tests used to compare results between groups (p < 0.05). In total, 185 participants (152 players, 33 coaches) were included in the study. 97% of players reported having sustained a time-loss basketball injury in their career, with 66% of players sustaining an injury in the present season (16% requiring hospital attention) and 23% sustaining a concussion playing basketball. Players and coaches held positive perceptions towards injury prevention, although significant differences existed on the most effective methods to reduce injury, with coaches favouring strength training and load management (p < 0.01). Both groups had good knowledge of injury risk, although there were differences in the frequency and seriousness of some injuries, such as concussion. Half of the players reported using protective equipment, with only 6% using a mouthguard. Basketball injuries appear frequent and serious, but players and coaches alike possess positive knowledge and perceptions towards their prevention.		[Barden, Craig; Grant, James; McMaster, Charlotte; De Ste Croix, Mark] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Educ Hlth & Sci, Gloucester GL2 9HW, England; [Howse, Andy] NCS, Basketball England, Manchester M11 3FF, England; [Barden, Craig] Univ Gloucestershire, Oxstalls Campus, Gloucester GL2 9HW, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001730808200001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Batalla-Gavalda, Abraham; Zurano-Clemente, Alejandro; Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente; Cecilia-Gallego, Pau; Fernandes-deamorim, Nayara; Corbi, Francisco								Effects of an eccentric training protocol on mechanical properties of the ankle joint in young soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261435445				2026	Muscle tone in young soccer players is key for optimizing performance and reducing injury risk. This study evaluated an 8-week predominantly eccentric training protocol's impact on triceps surae/Achilles tendon mechanical properties and ankle dorsiflexion. Thirty players were randomized to an intervention group (IG, n = 15; additional 2 weekly eccentric sessions) or control group (CG, n = 15; regular training). Mechanical properties were assessed via myotonometry and ankle dorsiflexion via the Weight-Bearing Lunge Test. Results at 8 weeks showed in IG vs. CG: 1) Reduced active tension (muscle frequency: lateral gastrocnemius left d = -0.82, right d = -1.40; medial gastrocnemius left d = -1.29, right d = -1.30; soleus right d = -0.80; Achilles tendon left d = -0.68; all p < 0.05). 2) Decreased stiffness in lateral gastrocnemius right (d = -1.12) and medial gastrocnemius (left d = -0.68, right d = -0.86; p < 0.05). 3) Increased passive tension properties: creep in lateral gastrocnemius right (d = 0.94; p < 0.05) and medial gastrocnemius (left d = 0.79, right d = 0.97; p < 0.05); relaxation in medial gastrocnemius (left d = 0.64, right d = 1.03; p < 0.05). 4) Reduced ankle dorsiflexion in the right leg (d = -0.68; p < 0.05). These findings indicate that eccentric training modulates musculotendinous mechanical properties, potentially influencing neuromechanical factors related to injury-related mechanisms.		[Batalla-Gavalda, Abraham; Cecilia-Gallego, Pau; Fernandes-deamorim, Nayara] Univ Rovira & Virgili, Univ Sch Hlth & Sport EUSES, Amposta 43870, Spain; [Batalla-Gavalda, Abraham] Univ Jaume 1, Fac Humanities & Social Sci, Dept Educ & Specif Didact, Castellon De La Plana 12071, Spain; [Batalla-Gavalda, Abraham] Univ Barcelona, Inst Nacl Educ Fis Catalunya INEFC, Grup Recerca Ciencies Esport INEFC Barcelona, SGR 01191 2021, Barcelona 08038, Spain; [Zurano-Clemente, Alejandro; Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente] Univ Cardenal Herrera CEU, Phys Exercise Performance Res Grp, Sch Humanities & Commun Sci, Dept Educ Sci,CEU Univ, Calle Grecia 31, Castellon De La Plana 12006, Spain; [Corbi, Francisco] Univ Barcelona, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Clin Sci, Lhospitalet De Llobregat 08907, Spain; [Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente] Univ Cardenal Herrera CEU, CEU Univ, Sch Humanities & Commun Sci, Dept Educ Sci, Calle Grecia 31, Castellon De La Plana 12006, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001731752100001	95	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Jiang, Shouxin; Hautier, Christophe A.; Chen, Shiqin; Shi, Yue; Zhang, Qingshan; Li, Fei								Relationship between Lower Limb Muscle Activation Characteristics and Running Economy in Recreational Runners								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				57	74		10.5114/jhk/203469			APR 2026	2026	The aim of this study was to assess the correlation between lower limb muscle activation, co-activation characteristics, and running economy (RE). Twenty-nine male recreational runners participated in two sessions: during the first session, body composition and RE at 10 km & centerdot;h-1 were measured, while during the second session, we assessed gluteus maximus (GM), tibialis anterior (TA), gastrocnemius lateralis (LG), gastrocnemius medialis (MG), and soleus (SOL) muscles. Additionally, seven pairs of agonist-antagonist co-activation ratios were calculated. Pearson's and statistical non-parameters mapping (SnPM) correlation analyses were used to evaluate the muscular activity and RE, respectively. Pearson's analysis showed that GM, VM, VL, LG, MG, and SOL activation during the stance phase was negatively correlated with RE (r = -0.499 to -0.592, p < 0.05), whereas RF and VL activation during the initial swing phase was positively correlated with RE (r = 0.522, r = 0.527; p < 0.05). Regarding muscle co-activation, the SOL-TA in the propulsion, the BF-VL, and GM-RF during the initial swing phase were negatively correlated with RE (r = -0.506 to -0.634, p < 0.05). In contrast, the RF-BF in the terminal swing phase was positively correlated with RE (r = 0.578, p < 0.05). Unfortunately, SnPM analysis did not show significant results. In conclusion, greater lower limb muscle activation during the stance phase is associated with better RE. During the swing phase, the co-activation of the high activation of the posterior thigh muscles (GM, BF) and the lower activation of the anterior thigh muscles (quadriceps) is associated with better RE.		[Jiang, Shouxin; Chen, Shiqin; Zhang, Qingshan; Li, Fei] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Hautier, Christophe A.; Zhang, Qingshan] Univ Lyon, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite, Villeurbanne, France; [Zhang, Qingshan; Li, Fei] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai Key Lab Human Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Qingshan] Univ Lyon, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite, Villeurbanne, France; [Zhang, Qingshan; Li, Fei] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai Key Lab Human Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600005	48	Article; Article		
J	Xia, Zifan; Sun, Dong; Qian, Yihan; Xu, Yufan; Zhu, Chengyuan; Cen, Xuanzhen; Song, Yang; Xiang, Liangliang; Jemni, Monem; Gu, Yaodong								Biomechanical Strategies for Minimizing Force Plate Targeting Effects during Running: Efficacy of Masked Force Plate Integration with Augmented Visual Feedback								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				102				5	21		10.5114/jhk/212382			APR 2026	2026	This study aimed to investigate the targeting effect on the gait induced by the visual presence of a force plate during running and to develop a step guidance strategy (SGS) to minimize this effect and improve data acquisition success. Thirty-two healthy male participants were tested under three conditions: when the force plate was masked (MASK), when it was masked with the SGS implemented, and when it was visible (UNMASK). Kinematic, kinetic, and surface electromyography (sEMG) data were collected. The success rates for data acquisition were 30% for the MASK, 65.75% for the UNMASK, and 84.21% for the SGS condition. The UNMASK condition resulted in increased stride time, decreased stance time, and a lower coefficient of variation (CV) for the heel-to-force-plate distance. This condition also showed temporal variations in joint angles, an increased CV of the ankle joint angle waveform, significant alterations in ground reaction forces (GRF)-including greater peak braking force and impulses-and increased activation of the Vastus Medialis. The findings conclude that the visual presence of a force plate induces a targeting effect that undermines result reliability, and the proposed SGS effectively reduces this effect while significantly improving the success rate of data acquisition.		[Xia, Zifan; Sun, Dong; Qian, Yihan; Xu, Yufan; Zhu, Chengyuan; Cen, Xuanzhen; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Sun, Dong; Song, Yang] Ningbo 2 Hosp, Zhejiang Engn Res Ctr New Technol & Applicat Heliu, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Song, Yang] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Fac Engn, Dept Biomed Engn, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Xiang, Liangliang] KTH Royal Inst Technol, Dept Engn Mech, KTH MoveAbil Lab, Stockholm, Sweden; [Jemni, Monem] Univ Cambridge, Ctr Mental Hlth Res Assoc, Cambridge, England; [Gu, Yaodong] Hungarian Univ Sports Sci, Res Inst Sport Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Sun, Dong; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Sun, Dong] Ningbo 2 Hosp, Zhejiang Engn Res Ctr New Technol & Applicat Heliu, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Gu, Yaodong] Hungarian Univ Sports Sci, Res Inst Sport Sci, Budapest, Hungary								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001783702600001	47	Article; Article		
J	Roux, Valentin; Trouilloud, David								Psychometric properties of the French athlete version of the coach-athlete relationship questionnaire (Fr-CART-Q)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			689	700		10.1177/17479541251399639			APR 2026	2026	Two studies were conducted to examine the psychometric properties of the French athlete version of the Coach-Athlete Relationship Questionnaire (Fr-CART-Q) among two independent samples of French athletes. Study 1 evaluated the reliability, factorial structure, and convergent, discriminant, and criterion validities of this scale among 442 French athletes (65.8% men; Mage = 21.66, SD = 4.82) involved in various sports. Study 2 investigated the same psychometric properties, as well as temporal invariance, among a specific sample of 286 adolescent handball players (58.4% men; Mage =15.39 years, SD = 1.01) involved in intensive training centers. Both studies reveal that the psychometric properties of the Fr-CART-Q are satisfactory. Reliability indices and factorial structures confirm the multidimensional and hierarchical structure of the Fr-CART-Q. Temporial invariance analysis reveals that the factorial structure of this scale remains consistent over time. Criterion validity is satisfactory and the quality of the coach-athlete relationship is positively associated with athletes' perceived competence. Overall, these two studies indicate that the Fr-CART-Q can be used with French athletes.		[Roux, Valentin] Nantes Univ, Movement Interact Performance MIP, Nantes, France; [Roux, Valentin; Trouilloud, David] Univ Grenoble Alpes, SENS, Grenoble, France; [Roux, Valentin] Univ Grenoble Alpes, SENS, Grenoble, France; [Roux, Valentin] Nantes Univ, Movement Interact Performance MIP, UR 4334, F-44000 Nantes, France; [Roux, Valentin] 23 Rue Recteur Schmitt,BP 92235, F-44322 Nantes 3, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001694568500001	59	Article; Article		
J	Barrett, Steve; Myhill, Naomi; Haycraft, Jade; Emmonds, Stacey; Weaving, Daniel; Parkinson, Tom; Billingham, Johsan; Evans, Nicolas; Hudson, Andy; Amit, Eran; Duthie, Grant; Robertson, Sam								FIFA Innovation Programme Challenge 2 case study: Lower-limb mounted devices within football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1132	1141		10.1177/17479541261421835			APR 2026	2026	The FIFA Innovation Programme Challenge 2, focuses on the use of lower-limb mounted devices within Football. The programme was created as a vehicle for new technologies to be allowed to be worn in official FIFA matches, which required six criteria to be met prior to completion. These criteria were, 1) Pass the current FIFA Basic test, 2) Assess new potential methods of testing specific impacts on lower limb devices, 3) Pass the current FIFA Quality test for Electronic Performance Tracking Systems (assessing the validity of the system against a criterion measure), 4) Examine the usability of lower limb mounted devices in actual football match play, 5) Interview club practitioners and gain their feedback on using the systems, and 6) Explore the safety of the system by comparisons to injury surveillance data. In the current case study, a foot-mounted inertial measurement unit (Playermaker), was assessed using the above outlined criteria. The results of the six criteria are presented in the manuscript, with the foot-mounted inertial measurement unit now being permitted to be worn in official match play as an outcome of the FIFA Innovation Programme Challenge 2.		[Barrett, Steve] Playermaker, 1 Water Lane, London NW1 8NZ, England; [Barrett, Steve] Global Inst Sport, Manchester, England; [Myhill, Naomi; Emmonds, Stacey] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Haycraft, Jade; Robertson, Sam] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Weaving, Daniel] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Activ, Ormskirk, England; [Parkinson, Tom; Billingham, Johsan; Evans, Nicolas; Robertson, Sam] Federat Int Football Assoc FIFA, Zurich, Switzerland; [Emmonds, Stacey; Hudson, Andy] Football Assoc, Burton Upon Trent, England; [Duthie, Grant] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Strathfield, NSW, Australia; [Duthie, Grant] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Sydney, Australia; [Barrett, Steve] Playermaker, 1 Water Lane, London NW1 8NZ, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001694555800001	23	Article; Article		
J	McGleenan, Eamon; Grant, Samuel D. T.; McFetridge, Lisa M.; Brown, Jack C. J.; Shaw, Joseph W.; Malaquias, Tiago de Melo; Montgomery, Ruth; Jess, David B.								Ballistic power: GPS-derived measurements suitable for the real-time monitoring of neuromuscular fatigue during repeated sprints								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1024	1039		10.1177/17479541251413077			APR 2026	2026	Power-force-velocity ( P F v ) measurements have traditionally been employed to characterize the limits of an athlete's neuromuscular system. However, in more recent years, there has been growing interest in whether P F v metrics can also be used to define and assess training outcomes, e.g., as an indicator of performance and/or neuromuscular fatigue. Here we assess performance in a repeated sprint ability (RSA) test using traditional P F v measurements, alongside two novel metrics: ballistic power ( P B ) and the F v -offset, with the changes observed attributed to neuromuscular fatigue. Twenty-four physically active males (age = 26.08 +/- 6.84 years) undertook the RSA test, consisting of 3 sets of 5 x 50 m maximal sprints, with each participant wearing a STATSports Apex Pro series unit to track their motion. Mixed-effect models show how power-related metrics have the largest reduction due to fatigue compared to their force and velocity counterparts, with P B showing the largest decrease of similar to 31.8% ( - 40.2 <= P B ( % change ) <= - 23.4 , 95% CI, Cohen's d = 1.60 ) across the RSA test performed. We demonstrate that ballistic power, P B , is the most reactive metric to athlete fatigue amongst the considered values. The described methods provide a promising, feasible tool for field-based monitoring of fatigue using routine GPS data.		[McGleenan, Eamon; Grant, Samuel D. T.; McFetridge, Lisa M.; Brown, Jack C. J.; Jess, David B.] Queens Univ Belfast, Sch Math & Phys, Predict Sports Analyt, Belfast BT7 1NN, North Ireland; [Shaw, Joseph W.] Irish Rugby Football Union, Dublin, Ireland; [Shaw, Joseph W.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Technol & Hlth Sci, London, England; [Malaquias, Tiago de Melo; Montgomery, Ruth] STATSports Grp Ltd, Newry BT35 8QS, North Ireland; [Malaquias, Tiago de Melo] Al Qadsiah Football Club, Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia; [McGleenan, Eamon] Queens Univ Belfast, Sch Math & Phys, Predict Sports Analyt, Belfast BT7 1NN, North Ireland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001679338100001	67	Article; Article		
J	Meulenkamp, V. P.; Huijgen, B. C. H.; Geurkink, Y.; Kempe, M.								Physical disparities in elite late-stage academy soccer players: An examination of demands across age categories in small-sided games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			855	864		10.1177/17479541251407273			APR 2026	2026	This study compares the physical demands between two age categories (U18 and U21) during different types of sided games (small, medium, and large) based on relative pitch area (RPA). Thirty-seven elite youth soccer players from two late-stage academy teams participated in small-sided games (SSGs) over 9 weeks. Distances covered at different speed intensities (total distance, high-speed running distance, and sprinting distance) and the number of accelerations and decelerations were analyzed. Multilevel analyses revealed significant differences in physical performance between age categories. The U21 team covered significantly more high-speed running and sprinting distances, while the U18 team performed more accelerations and decelerations. Large-sided games resulted in the greatest total distance, high-speed running and sprinting, while small-sided games produced the most accelerations and decelerations. The findings suggest age-related differences in physical performance, particularly in medium- and large-sided games, with older players covering greater distances at higher speeds. These differences may be due to biological maturation and could also be influenced by tactical behavior. This study contributes to understanding the physical performance variations among elite late-stage academy soccer players, emphasizing the impact of age category and game format. Insights into manipulating RPA are crucial for coaches to optimize training sessions and facilitate the physical transition between late-stage academy teams.		[Meulenkamp, V. P.; Kempe, M.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9700 AB Groningen, Netherlands; [Meulenkamp, V. P.] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland; [Huijgen, B. C. H.] Univ Groningen, Fac Behav & Social Sci, Dept Psychol, Groningen, Netherlands; [Geurkink, Y.] FC Twente Heracles Football Acad, Hengelo, Netherlands; [Meulenkamp, V. P.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9700 AB Groningen, Netherlands								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001676907800001	45	Article; Article		
J	Tian, Wang Teng; Weldon, Anthony; Finlay, Mitchell; Ho, Louis; Lim, Julian								Competition-day priming practices of South-East Asian track-and-field coaches: Results from a cross sectional survey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			780	790		10.1177/17479541251415287			APR 2026	2026	This survey study investigated the priming strategies used by track-and-field coaches in South-East Asia. The anonymous online survey fielded questions across themes of: 1) demographic information, 2) prevalence and nature of priming strategies prescribed, 3) priming strategies used, and 4) challenges faced when implementing priming strategies. Forty participants (mean age: 37.6 +/- 9.86 years; coaching experience: 10.1 +/- 8.43 years) completed the survey, including head coaches (n = 15), assistant coaches (n = 11), trainers (n = 9), and other coaching staff (n = 5). Participants specialised primarily in track events-sprints and hurdles (70%), middle distance (35%), long distance (15%)-and field events-jumps (12.5%) and throws (5%). Plyometrics (87.5%) was the most frequently used priming strategy, followed by high-intensity strength training (67.5%), flexibility and mobility (65%), and weightlifting derivatives (42.5%). Plyometrics, high-intensity strength training, and weightlifting derivatives were generally implemented 1-2 days before competition, while flexibility and mobility were implemented 1-2 h pre-competition. Considerations for successful implementation of the priming strategies included equipment and venue limitations, time restraints, biological and training age, and the athlete's willingness and mentality. For practical application, coaches could incorporate plyometric routines, consisting of 3-4 sets with 1-5 reps, into their athletes' training schedules 1-2 days before competition. Priming strategies used should consider athletes' developmental stages and logistical factors (i.e., equipment availability and event time constraints) to support optimal competition performance.		[Tian, Wang Teng; Ho, Louis] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ Acad Grp, Singapore, Singapore; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Birmingham, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Aston Villa Football Club, Birmingham, England; [Finlay, Mitchell] Univ Acad 92, Manchester, England; [Lim, Julian] Natl Youth Sports Inst, Performance Pathways Sci, 5D Stadium Lane, Singapore 397778, Singapore; [Lim, Julian] Natl Youth Sports Inst, Performance Pathways Sci, 5D Stadium Lane, Singapore 397778, Singapore								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001674636900001	54	Article; Article		
J	Lopez de Subijana, Cristina; Checa, Irene; Yukhymenko-Lescroart, Mariya A.								Assessing dual career identity: Validation of the Spanish academic and athletic identity scale								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			825	831		10.1177/17479541251411196			APR 2026	2026	This study presents the translation, cultural adaptation, and psychometric validation of the Academic and Athletic Identity Scale (AAIS) for Spanish-speaking student-athletes. A total of 398 participants completed the AAIS-Spanish version and sociodemographic questions. Confirmatory factor analysis supported a two-factor structure, consistent with the original instrument, after allowing for theoretically justified error covariances. Both subscales showed strong internal consistency, and evidence of measurement invariance by gender was established. Structural equation modeling demonstrated concurrent validity, with academic identity predicting study time and athletic identity predicting sport practice. The findings support the validity of the AAIS Spanish as an instrument for assessing dual career identity. The scale provides researchers and practitioners with a robust tool for supporting student-athlete development in Spanish-speaking contexts.		[Lopez de Subijana, Cristina] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Social Sci Phys Act Sport & Leisure, Madrid, Spain; [Checa, Irene] Uniersitat Valencia, Dept Dev & Educ Psychol, Valencia, Spain; [Yukhymenko-Lescroart, Mariya A.] Calif State Univ Fresno, Dept Curriculum & Instruct, Fresno, CA USA; [Checa, Irene] Univ Valencia, Dept Dev & Educ Psychol, Valencia, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001662523900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Barrett, Steve; King, Michael; Wichitaksorn, Nuttanan; Prosser, Owain; Liu, Qinwei; Spencer, Kirsten								Understanding the within match differences and variability during international youth male football match play in Oceania								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1142	1155		10.1177/17479541251406508			APR 2026	2026	Background: The technical and physical outputs from international match play are limited within certain football confederations due to multiple factors (facilities, staffing, costs), which can help better inform practitioners in supporting player development. Objectives: To assess the differences and explain the variability within technical actions and locomotor activities of Oceania youth male tournament matches. Methods: All matches were monitored using foot-mounted inertial measurements units (F-IMU; Playermaker (TM)), to quantify the technical (Touches, Releases, Time on the Ball, Release velocity) and locomotor activities (Distance Covered, High-Speed/ Sprint distance, Accelerations/Decelerations, Changes of Direction) from both an absolute and relative perspective. Data were analysed using a linear mixed model. Statistical significance was accepted as p <= 0.05 and measures of effect size were calculated using partial eta-squared (eta(2)). Magnitude of effect sizes were small (0.2 < ES < 0.6), moderate (0.6 < ES < 1.2), large (1.2 < ES < 2) and very large (>= 2). Results: Variability within matches across metrics was most explained by the individual player, rather than the team, phase or match. Within match differences showed that the 1(st) period was higher for all metrics compared to the 2(nd) and 3(rd) period. Differences between team's showed small to large effect sizes across all teams for all metrics (absolute & relative). Conclusion: International youth football within the Oceania confederation, showed differences across locomotor activities and technical actions within match play and between teams, with variance explained most by the individual player. This information can be used to support players development, while providing benchmarks for future tournaments as a comparative within different confederations.		[Barrett, Steve] Playermaker, London, England; [King, Michael] Univ Glasgow, Glasgow, Scotland; [Wichitaksorn, Nuttanan; Liu, Qinwei; Spencer, Kirsten] AUT, Auckland, New Zealand; [Prosser, Owain] Oceania Football Confederat, Auckland, New Zealand; [Barrett, Steve] Playermaker, London, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001662813800001	28	Article; Article		
J	Bhardwaj, Dhanur; Broadbent, David; Feros, Simon A.; Dwyer, Dan B.								Assessing criterion validity and test-retest reliability of a computer vision-based system for tracking player location in cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1114	1122		10.1177/17479541251413405			APR 2026	2026	Player tracking is widely utilised to quantify physical and tactical performance of elite athletes, with wearable technologies being the most commonly used systems. However, wearable devices are limited in their ability to capture location data of an opposing team, thereby limiting the collection of complete match information. Alternatively, computer vision-based systems can track all players on the field without the need for wearable devices. This study aimed to evaluate the criterion validity and test-retest reliability of a computer vision-based system for tracking player locations in cricket. Validity was assessed as error in 1) measured distance from a player to a reference location and 2) distance between two players. The reliability of these measurements was evaluated along with system's ability to measure location of a player returning to a specific location multiple times. Validity and reliability were evaluated separately for near-end and far-end of the field relative to camera position. The root mean square error (RMSE) for distance measurements ranged 0.28m-0.49 m (near-end) and 0.82m-1.06 m (far-end). The system marginally underestimated (mean bias: -0.13 m to -0.32 m; homogenous distribution of errors) and overestimated (mean bias: 0.72 m to 0.97 m; heterogenous distribution of errors) measured distances at near-end and far-end, respectively. The system demonstrated excellent reliability, with interclass correlation coefficients (ICC) of 1.00 at near-end and far-end. The technical error of measurement (TEM) ranged 0.05m-0.31 m (near-end) and 0.26m-0.34 m (far-end). These findings support the use of specific computer vision-based system as a valid and reliable tool for capturing player location data to analyse tactical performance in cricket.		[Bhardwaj, Dhanur; Broadbent, David; Feros, Simon A.; Dwyer, Dan B.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Australia; [Bhardwaj, Dhanur; Broadbent, David; Feros, Simon A.; Dwyer, Dan B.] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Australia; [Bhardwaj, Dhanur] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001661184500001	38	Article; Article		
J	Li, Shuting; van der Leeuw, Quint; Lemmink, Koen A. P. M.; Kempe, Matthias								Enhancing recovery between training? Investigating the benefits of compression stockings in runners								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1088	1102		10.1177/17479541251407841			APR 2026	2026	Purpose: To determine whether wearing compression stockings (CS) exclusively during the 24-h recovery between consecutive high-intensity running sessions improves next-day countermovement jump (CMJ) performance, gait biomechanics, running economy (RE), perceived outcomes of rating of perceived exertion (RPE) and delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) in recreational runners. Methods: Twelve endurance runners participated in a randomized, counterbalanced within-subjects crossover with two consecutive test days per block. After an individualised high-intensity running protocol, participants recovered for 24 h wearing either medical thigh-high CS (23-32 mmHg) or not to investigate the effects on the above outcomes. Results: No significant differences were found in CMJ, gait variables, and RE. For DOMS, Friedman tests showed time effect in both conditions (CON chi(2)(3) = 21.10, p < .001; CGs chi(2)(3) = 24.68, p < .001). Specifically, DOMS declined from Day 1 Post to Day 2 Pre in CGs (Z = -2.904, p = 0.004) but not in CON (Z = -1.179, p = 0.239), indicating improved recovery with compression garments. A significant Condition x Time interaction was found for RPE (f(1,11) = 5.26, p = 0.043), increasing across days in CON but not in CGs. Conclusions: These findings suggest that CS do not enhance the objective markers of recovery, in gait variables, RE, or jump performance for training recovery, but may accelerate the decline of DOMS during the overnight recovery phase and reduce RPE across consecutive training days, thereby supporting perceived recovery in runners.		[Li, Shuting; van der Leeuw, Quint; Lemmink, Koen A. P. M.; Kempe, Matthias] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1-FA23, Groningen, Netherlands; [Kempe, Matthias] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Vienna, Austria; [Li, Shuting] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1-FA23, Groningen, Netherlands								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001651882800001	70	Article; Article		
J	Csato, Laszlo; Devriesere, Karel; Goossens, Dries; Gyimesi, Andras; Lambers, Roel; Spieksma, Frits C. R.								Ranking matters: Does the new format select the best teams for the knockout phase in the UEFA Champions League?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1123	1131		10.1177/17479541251405330			APR 2026	2026	Starting in the 2024/25 season, the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) has fundamentally changed the format of its club competitions: the group stage has been replaced by a league phase played by 36 teams in an incomplete round robin format. This makes ranking the teams based on their results challenging because teams play against different sets of opponents, whose strengths vary. In this research note, we apply several well-known ranking methods for incomplete round robin tournaments to the 2024/25 UEFA Champions League league phase in order to check the robustness of the official ranking, as well as to call the attention of organizers to the non-trivial issue of ranking in these competitions. Our results show that it is doubtful whether the currently used point-based system provides the best ranking of the teams.		[Csato, Laszlo; Gyimesi, Andras] Hungarian Res Network HUN REN, Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAKI, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Res Grp Operat Res & Dec Syst, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Inst Operat & Dec Sci, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Devriesere, Karel; Goossens, Dries] Univ Ghent, Dept Business Informat & Operat Management, Ghent, Belgium; [Devriesere, Karel; Goossens, Dries] FlandersMakeUGent Core lab CVAMO, Ghent, Belgium; [Gyimesi, Andras] Univ Pecs, Fac Business & Econ, Pecs, Hungary; [Lambers, Roel; Spieksma, Frits C. R.] Eindhoven Univ Technol, Dept Math & Comp Sci, Eindhoven, Netherlands; [Goossens, Dries] Univ Ghent, Dept Business Informat & Operat Management, Ghent, Belgium; [Goossens, Dries] FlandersMakeUGent Core lab CVAMO, Ghent, Belgium								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001651608400001	23	Article; Article		
J	Mathisen, Therese Fostervold; Sundgot-Borgen, Jorunn; Macnaughton, Lindsay; Rustaden, Anne Mette; Lokkevik, Inger Johanne; Lundberg, Helge Einar; Sundgot-Borgen, Christine								Knowledge of low energy availability in biathlon: Why coaches need more targeted education. Results from a national, cross-sectional study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			768	779		10.1177/17479541251407845			APR 2026	2026	This study explores the knowledge of coaches working with adolescent biathletes regarding eating disorders (ED), low energy availability (LEA), and Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (REDs). METHODS: Recruited coaches completed a questionnaire assessing self-reported knowledge (scale 0-10) of ED, LEA and REDs, and secondly by articulating their knowledge (scored by three experts, scale 0-2). RESULTS: Thirty-three coaches participated (mean age 40.6 +/- 12.2 years), most without formal coach education (n = 25, 75.8%), and 13 (39.4%) were female. Self-reported knowledge of LEA/REDs was lower than ED knowledge (4.75 +/- 2.9 vs. 5.74 +/- 2.5; p = 0.02, g = 0.4), with a similar pattern in expert-rated scores (0.72 +/- 0.6 vs. 1.12 +/- 0.6; p < 0.01, g = 0.8). A regression model explained 45% of variance in self-reported LEA/REDs knowledge, with education level and course participation positively associated, while sex had no significant effect. For expert-rated scores, the model explained 33% of variance, with only course participation significant. For knowledge of guidelines on addressing LEA/REDs concerns self-reported scores were 3.6 +/- 2.9, and 4.5 +/- 2.9 for ED concerns (p = 0.04, g = 0.4); and expert-assessed scores were 0.7 +/- 0.7 and 0.9 +/- 0.8 (p = 0.11), respectively. Regression models did not significantly explain variability in these scores CONCLUSION: Biathlon coaches are less aware of LEA/REDs symptoms and less confident in addressing them than symptoms of ED. Importantly, education and course attendance raised knowledge scores, and preferred learning methods were virtual or physical courses with experts over scientific papers.		[Mathisen, Therese Fostervold] Ostfold Univ Coll, Fac Hlth Welf & Org, Fredrikstad, Norway; [Sundgot-Borgen, Jorunn; Lundberg, Helge Einar] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Inst Sport Med, Oslo, Norway; [Macnaughton, Lindsay] Univ Durham, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Durham, England; [Rustaden, Anne Mette; Lokkevik, Inger Johanne] Univ Inland Norway, Fac Social & Hlth Sci, Lillehammer, Norway; [Sundgot-Borgen, Christine] Univ Oslo, Dept Psychol, Oslo, Norway; [Mathisen, Therese Fostervold] Kobberslagerstredet 5, N-1671 Krakeroy, Norway								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001651878700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Yildiz, Selen; Ozturk, Pinar; Koca, Canan								Between silence and need: Menstrual experiences and communication gaps in coach-athlete relationships in Türkiye								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			701	712		10.1177/17479541251406503			APR 2026	2026	While the menstrual cycle is recognized as an important factor in women athletes' health and performance, most research remains Western and biomedical, leaving gaps on how cultural and gender norms shape menstrual experiences and communication in non-Western settings such as T & uuml;rkiye. This study examined the menstrual cycle (MC) experiences of Turkish female athletes, focusing on physical and psychological symptoms, their perceived impact on training and competition, athletes' knowledge of the MC, and communication with coaches. Utilizing a quantitative, cross-sectional survey design, data were collected from 482 elite women athletes. Findings revealed that most athletes experienced multiple MC symptoms, with abdominal pain and mood changes being the most common. Approximately half of the participants stated that the MC negatively affected training and competition performance. Despite these impacts, only 18% consistently communicated the MC symptoms to their coaches, and nearly half perceived their coaches as lacking sufficient knowledge on the topic. Athletes who believed their coach was knowledgeable were more likely to engage in menstrual communication. Furthermore, one-third of the participants had insufficient knowledge of premenstrual syndrome, and awareness of the link between weight loss and amenorrhea was low. A significant majority (89%) supported dialogue between athletes and coaches regarding the MC, emphasizing its relevance to training and athlete well-being. These findings highlight the necessity of destigmatizing menstruation, enhancing education for both athletes and coaches, and promoting individualized, open communication strategies within sports contexts. This study expands understanding of sociocultural influences on women athletes' menstrual experiences in non-Western contexts.		[Yildiz, Selen; Ozturk, Pinar; Koca, Canan] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ankara, Turkiye; [Yildiz, Selen] Hacettepe Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Ankara, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001647793300001	48	Article; Article		
J	Parkinson, Amy O.; Morris, John G.; Apps, Charlotte L.; Felton, Paul J.								Jump performance, lower limb function and inter-limb asymmetry: Seasonal variation in university team-sport athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1040	1054		10.1177/17479541251401813			APR 2026	2026	Thirty-eight university basketball, hockey and netball athletes (age: 20.1 +/- 1.4 yrs; height 1.8 +/- 0.1 cm; body mass: 77.6 +/- 12.7 m) completed bilateral and unilateral countermovement (CMJ) and horizontal jumps (HJ) across four seasonal timepoints. Mixed-design ANOVAs assessed longitudinal sex- and sport-based differences in jump performance (normalised height/ distance), lower limb function (normalised CMJ power and impulse) and inter-limb asymmetry. Kappa coefficients (kappa) assessed directional consistency in asymmetry scores. Males consistently outperformed females across all measures (all p < 0.05) and basketballers exhibited larger HJ distances and improved lower limb function than hockey and netball players (all p < 0.05). HJ performance and unilateral CMJ power improved significantly across the sample from preseason to competition (all p < 0.05), but improvements in CMJ performance and impulse were only observed in females and netballers. HJ derived inter-limb asymmetry decreased from preseason to competition (all p < 0.05), while CMJ derived asymmetries remained unchanged. Directional consistency in asymmetry was poor to substantial (kappa = -0.20-0.80), with over 60% of athletes switching limb preferences across timepoints and up to 42% between tasks. These findings support the use of multidirectional jump testing for seasonal monitoring, although practitioners should consider both sport-specific and sex-specific factors when interpreting jump performance, function and asymmetry across a season.		[Parkinson, Amy O.; Morris, John G.; Apps, Charlotte L.; Felton, Paul J.] Nottingham Trent Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Nottingham, England; [Parkinson, Amy O.] Nottingham Trent Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Nottingham, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001643375500001	55	Article; Article		
J	Alves, Jeferson Fernandes; Legnani, Rosimeide Francisco dos Santos; Api, Gustavo Henrique; da Silva, Sergio Gregorio; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Silva, Rui Miguel; Legnani, Elto								Comparing plyometric training methods on speed, change of direction, and jump performance in young soccer players: A controlled study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			865	876		10.1177/17479541251398657			APR 2026	2026	Background: The methodological approach to plyometric training can influence the magnitude of adaptations by accumulating acute responses that result in long-term adaptations. However, there is a lack of studies comparing cluster methods and traditional models of plyometric training organization regarding the magnitude of medium-term adaptations. Objective: This study aimed to compare cluster and traditional repetition methods on the resulting adaptations in jump performance, speed, and change of direction in young soccer players through plyometric training. Methods: A randomized controlled study was conducted over 6 weeks. In total, thirty male youth soccer players participated in the study, with nine allocated to the traditional training method group (TRD) (age = 14.83 +/- 0.52 years) where they performed 3 x 10:225 s, ten players assigned to the cluster training group (CS) (age = 14.50 +/- 0.52 years) where they performed 3 x 5 x 2:30s:45 s, and 11 athletes allocated to the control group (CON) (age = 14.73 +/- 0.46 years). Players were evaluated pre-and post the 6 weeks of training in the 30-meter sprint (T30), change of direction (COD 505), countermovement jump (CMJ), and standing long jump (SLJ) tests. Results: Significant improvements were observed in the T30 (p < 0.001), COD 505 (p = 0.039), and CMJ (p < 0.01) for the time factor (pre vs. post) but not for SLJ (p = 0.49). Between-subject effects showed significant differences in T30 (p < 0.01) and COD 505 (p < 0.01), favoring the CON group over both training groups. The interaction between time and training method revealed significant differences for COD 505 (p < 0.01) and CMJ (p = 0.01), with the CON group showing better performance in COD 505 compared to both CS (p < 0.01) and TRD (p = 0.01) groups. No significant improvements were noted in SLJ across groups (p = 0.06). Conclusion: Plyometric training through both traditional and cluster set methods did not outperform the control condition in most measures, with the control group even showing a greater COD 505 performance compared to CS and TRD groups. Given that, regular soccer training might be sufficient for improving the assessed physical tests in young athletes, or the plyometric interventions might need adjustments in volume or intensity to yield more significant improvements.		[Alves, Jeferson Fernandes; Legnani, Elto] Univ Tecnol Fed Parana, Curitiba, Brazil; [Legnani, Rosimeide Francisco dos Santos] Univ Fed Parana, Curitiba, Brazil; [Api, Gustavo Henrique; Silva, Rui Miguel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Viana Do Castel, Portugal; [da Silva, Sergio Gregorio] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castel, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Univ Estadual Ponta Grossa, Ponta Grossa, Brazil; [Alves, Jeferson Fernandes] Univ Tecnol Fed Parana, Curitiba, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001645482000001	46	Article; Article		
J	Mannix, Patrick; Roberts, Simon J.; Littlewood, Martin A.; Enright, Kevin J.								Supporting player development during the youth-to-senior transition process: A mixed-methods case study of a complex adaptive system in professional soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1156	1169		10.1177/17479541251396338			APR 2026	2026	Through a Complex Adaptive Systems (CAS) framework, this study aimed to [1] quantify the seasonal physical loading of a Major League Soccer (MLS) homegrown player (age = 18 y; stature = 1.73 m; body mass = 68.7 kg; position = fullback) undergoing the youth-to-senior transition and [2] explore club sport scientists' perspectives on the working dynamics of the player's training program during the transition process. A mixed-methods single case study design was adopted, integrating external load data (total duration of activity, total distance covered, and distance running at 14.4-19.7 km/h, high-speed running at 19.8-25.1 km/h, and sprinting at >25.1 km/h) from both the player's club and national federation using global positioning systems (GPS) technology, alongside semi-structured interviews with sport science practitioners from the player's MLS organization. Descriptive statistics were used to summarize the GPS data, while hierarchical content analysis was used to formulate categories. Findings addressed relevant features of a CAS within this youth-to-senior transition process, detailing a complex developmental pathway to first team (FT) soccer. The player's physical loading exhibited large variability during the preseason (Coefficient of Variation; CV = 19-58%) and in-season (CV = 25-50%) phases, reflecting the influence of contextual factors such as squad-shifting, international call-ups, and extensive travel when oscillating between disparate training environments. Practitioners also highlighted the dual role of the reserve team (RT), providing the player consistent competitive match exposure to support his individual development. Overall, this study demonstrates the value of a holistic, systems-level approach to better understand optimizing long-term player development initiatives.		[Mannix, Patrick; Roberts, Simon J.; Littlewood, Martin A.; Enright, Kevin J.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Roberts, Simon J.; Littlewood, Martin A.; Enright, Kevin J.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Football Exchange, Liverpool, England; [Mannix, Patrick] United States Soccer Federat, High Performance Dept, 303 E Wacker Dr, Chicago, IL 60601 USA; [Mannix, Patrick] United States Soccer Federat, High Performance Dept, 303 E Wacker Dr, Chicago, IL 60601 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001625452300001	57	Article; Article		
J	Kilci, Abdullah; Eryilmaz, Selcen G. Korkmaz; Boyraz, Omer Cumhur; Koc, Muhammed Emin; Binokay, Hulya; Kamis, Okan; Praca, Gibson Moreira								Exploring the relationship between reactive strength Index, leg stiffness, and physical performance in adolescent male soccer players: The mediating role of maturation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			832	842		10.1177/17479541251397132			APR 2026	2026	The purpose of this study was twofold: i) to examine the association among maturation, reactive strength index (RSI), leg stiffness, and physical performance tests, and ii) to investigate how maturation influences the relationship among RSI and leg stiffness and physical performance tests. Forty-six male soccer players (age: 11.8 +/- 1.5 years; height: 152.9 +/- 10.2 cm; weight: 45.9 +/- 10.5 kg) participated in this cross-sectional observational study. Players' biological maturity was assessed using peak height velocity (PHV). Physical tests were conducted in two separate sessions on different days: one included anthropometry, standing long jump, sprint, dribbling and agility; the other included RSI, leg stiffness, and kick velocity. Correlations and bootstrap-based mediation analyses were used to examine the mediating role of PHV between RSI, leg stiffness, and performance. Mean years to PHV was -1.61 +/- 0.99 years, and all players were in the pre-PHV period. RSI was strongly correlated with sprint (r = -0.73; CI95% = -0.840 to -0.533), agility (r = -0.67; CI95% = -0.803 to -0.471), and SLJ (r = 0.68; CI95% = 0.487 to 0.811), while leg stiffness was moderately correlated with sprint (r = -0.38; CI95% = -0.602 to -0.102) and kick velocity (r = 0.43; CI95% = 0.166 to 0.642). PHV was moderately to highly correlated with all performance indicators (r = 0.37-0.65). Mediation models showed that PHV partially explained the relationship between RSI and performance tests (17-70%),whereas the relationship between leg stiffness and performance tests was fully mediated by PHV (68-96%)(p < 0.05). In conclusion, the findings indicate that considering PHV's mediating effect in assessing neuromuscular performance in young soccer players is essential and should not be overlooked in research and practice.		[Kilci, Abdullah; Boyraz, Omer Cumhur; Koc, Muhammed Emin] Cukurova Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, TR-01250 Adana, Turkiye; [Eryilmaz, Selcen G. Korkmaz] Cukurova Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Teaching, Adana, Turkiye; [Koc, Muhammed Emin] Aksaray Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Aksaray, Turkiye; [Binokay, Hulya] Cukurova Univ, Fac Med, Dept Biostat, Adana, Turkiye; [Kamis, Okan] Aksaray Univ, Dept Sports & Hlth, Aksaray, Turkiye; [Kamis, Okan] Northumbria Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, England; [Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Kilci, Abdullah] Cukurova Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, TR-01250 Adana, Turkiye								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001623215500001	56	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Garcia, Lorena; Fabra, Priscila; Martinez-Gonzalez, Natalia; Balaguer, Isabel; Duda, Joan L.								Club pressure, burnout and perceived motivational climate created by grassroots soccer coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			678	688		10.1177/17479541251393813			APR 2026	2026	This study examines whether the pressure perceived by coaches in their clubs as well as their burnout experiences are antecedents of the perceived motivational climate (empowering and disempowering) that they create in their teams. The participants of this study were 124 grassroots soccer coaches who completed the questionnaires tapping the variables of interest. Path analysis showed that perceived pressure within the club positively predicted the coaches' burnout experiences, which in turn positively predicted their perception of creating disempowering climate and negatively predicted their perceived creation of empowering climate. Burnout mediated the relationship between the perceived club pressure and their perceived creation of empowering and disempowering climate. Minimizing the pressure exerted by the clubs, and the burnout experienced by the coaches may lead the coaches to create empowering climates in their teams.		[Gonzalez-Garcia, Lorena; Martinez-Gonzalez, Natalia; Balaguer, Isabel] Univ Valencia, Fac Psychol & Speech Therapy, Dept Social Psychol, Valencia, Spain; [Fabra, Priscila] Univ Europea Valencia, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Psychol, Valencia, Spain; [Martinez-Gonzalez, Natalia] Univ Alicante, Dept Commun & Social Psychol, Alicante, Spain; [Duda, Joan L.] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, England; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Lorena] Univ Valencia, Fac Psychol & Speech Therapy, Dept Social Psychol, Avda Blasco Ibanez 21, Valencia, Spain; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Lorena] Univ Valencia, Fac Psychol & Speech Therapy, Dept Social Psychol, Valencia, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001622064900001	53	Article; Article		
J	Akinci, Yasin								Burnout and cognitive workload among elite basketball coaches: Effects of coaching experience and practice structure								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			670	677		10.1177/17479541251397467			APR 2026	2026	Burnout and cognitive workload present major challenges to coach well-being, yet few studies examine how these factors relate to practice structure preferences and coaching experience. This cross-sectional study investigated 103 elite Turkish basketball coaches (Mage = 42.1 +/- 6.3 years; Mexperience = 13.6 +/- 4.2 years). Burnout was measured using the Maslach Burnout Inventory-Human Services Survey, cognitive workload via the NASA-TLX, and practice structure preference through a single-item measure based on the constraints-led approach (CLA). Coaches reported moderate burnout (M = 23.3, SD = 3.7) and high cognitive workload (M = 66.5, SD = 8.1). Correlation analyses revealed a small, nonsignificant inverse relationship between CLA preference and burnout (r = -.10, p = .29), and a significant but modest inverse association between experience and burnout (r = -.25, p = .011). Regression analysis showed that experience predicted lower burnout (beta = -.23, p = .008, f(2) = .09), while CLA preference did not (beta = -.16, p = .184). The model explained 7.9% of the variance in burnout (R-2 = .08). A second regression indicated no significant links between either predictor and cognitive workload (R-2 = .03, n.s.). T-tests showed nonsignificant burnout differences between high- and low-CLA groups (d = -0.17, p = .44). These results suggest that experience may provide some protection against burnout, while cognitive workload remains high regardless of practice design. Given the cross-sectional nature and single-item CLA measure, findings should be interpreted cautiously. Coach education should integrate pedagogical innovation with stress-management strategies to promote psychological sustainability.		[Akinci, Yasin] Usak Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Bir Eylul Kampusu,Izmir Yolu 8 Km, TR-64200 Usak, Turkiye; [Akinci, Yasin] Usak Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Bir Eylul Kampusu,Izmir Yolu 8 Km, TR-64200 Usak, Turkiye								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001622118100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Sirvent-Llamas, Alejandro; Albentosa-Mora, Jose Luis; Cano-Esquibel, Gaspar; Mora, Higinio								Enhancing the athlete biological passport with blockchain: A secure and transparent anti-doping approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1103	1113		10.1177/17479541251394511			APR 2026	2026	The Athlete Biological Passport (ABP), established by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), serves as a cornerstone in the ongoing fight against doping in sports. By creating individual electronic records that track athletes' biological markers and test results over time, the ABP enables the detection of abnormal variations that may suggest doping. Despite its effectiveness, the ABP faces significant challenges, particularly concerning data privacy, system interoperability, and the risk of unauthorized record manipulation. These issues underscore the need for more robust and transparent technological solutions. This article introduces a novel framework that integrates blockchain technology into the management of the ABP. Blockchain's decentralized and immutable ledger provides a secure and transparent platform for recording, sharing, and auditing anti-doping data among authorized stakeholders. Our proposal outlines a consortium-governed blockchain network, involving sports organizations and regulatory bodies, which ensures that data integrity is maintained while respecting athletes' privacy rights and complying with international anti-doping regulations. We detail the technical architecture, governance model, and implementation roadmap for this blockchain-based system, emphasizing its capacity to prevent data tampering, streamline access control, and enhance the overall transparency of the anti-doping process. By leveraging blockchain's unique features, our approach aims to strengthen athlete integrity, increase trust in anti-doping measures, and support the evolution of fair and accountable sports governance. The integration of blockchain into the ABP represents a significant step forward in safeguarding the credibility of competitive sports and protecting athlete welfare.		[Sirvent-Llamas, Alejandro; Albentosa-Mora, Jose Luis; Cano-Esquibel, Gaspar; Mora, Higinio] Univ Alicante, Dept Comp Sci & Technol, Alicante, Spain; [Sirvent-Llamas, Alejandro] Univ Alicante, Dept Comp Sci & Technol, Alicante, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001622208200001	25	Article; Article		
J	Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Quidel-Catrilelbun, Mauricio Elias Leandro; Martinez-Rubio, Carlos; Miras-Moreno, Sergio; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo								Comparison of the load-velocity relationship between bilateral and unilateral variants of the prone bench pull and leg press exercises								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1076	1087		10.1177/17479541251391246			APR 2026	2026	This study aimed to compare the load-velocity profiles (LVP) derived from bilateral and unilateral variations of the prone bench pull (PBP) and leg press (LP) exercises, considering the self-reported preferred (SP) and non-preferred (NP) sides. Eighteen competitive male rowers (16.5 +/- 1.0 years) completed incremental loading tests to determine the LVP during the PBP and LP exercises, performed in separate testing sessions. Linear and second-order polynomial regression models were used to assess the LVP. The goodness-of-fit for both generalized and individualized LVPs was strong and consistent across exercise variants and models (R-2 >= 0.753 and 0.903, respectively). Mean velocity significantly differed between exercise variations (40-50% of one-repetition maximum [1RM] for PBP [P <= 0.038] and 90-100%1RM for LP [P <= 0.043]) and between regression models (40-90%1RM for PBP [P <= 0.044]). Specifically, i) velocity was generally higher in the bilateral variant compared to the unilateral NP variant of the PBP exercise (P <= 0.106; ES = 0.49), and in the unilateral NP variant compared to the bilateral variant of the LP exercise (P <= 0.088; ES >= 1.04), and ii) polynomial models produced slightly higher velocities than linear models (ES <= 0.12). These findings suggest that LVPs can be applied interchangeably between unilateral SP and NP variants of the PBP and LP exercises, regardless of the regression model used. However, a mode-specific approach may be needed for the bilateral variants to optimize load prescription accuracy.		[Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Martinez-Rubio, Carlos] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Educ, Almeria, Spain; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Martinez-Rubio, Carlos] Univ Almeria, CIBIS Ctr Invest Bienestar & Inclus Social, SPORT Res Grp CTS 1024, Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain; [Quidel-Catrilelbun, Mauricio Elias Leandro] Univ Las Amer, Fac Hlth & Social Sci, Sch Phys Act Sci, Concepcion, Chile; [Miras-Moreno, Sergio] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Miras-Moreno, Sergio] Sport & Hlth Univ Res Ctr iMUDS, Granada, Spain; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Andres Bello, Exercise & Rehabil Sci Inst, Fac Rehabil Sci, Sch Phys Therapy, Santiago, Chile; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Tarapaca, Sport Sci & Human Performance Labs, Inst Alta Invest, Tarapaca, Chile; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Dept Phys Act Sci, Osorno, Chile; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Educ, Almeria, Spain; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Almeria, CIBIS Ctr Invest Bienestar & Inclus Social, SPORT Res Grp CTS 1024, Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001610270400001	35	Article; Article		
J	Whitworth-Turner, Craig M.; Thompson, Adam; Sabin, Paul								Perception of perceptions: Exploring A new approach to determine self-reported measures of readiness in division I collegiate athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			802	812		10.1177/17479541251388425			APR 2026	2026	The current study explored the perceptions of collegiate student athletes in relation to describing readiness constructs (Energy, Tiredness/Fatigue, Muscle Soreness, Physical Readiness, Stress and overall Well-Being). Using a custom electronic survey, participants were asked to determine the positioning of various descriptors (i.e., adjectives describing the construct readiness quality, e.g., very very sore for muscle soreness), on a 100-pt visual analog scale (VAS), to determine where they perceive these descriptors to be placed on a blank scale. The distribution of responses was determined from inspection of the data, with a Bayesian Logistic Regression used to assess the posterior probability that a descriptor was anchored above or below 50 (which was used as the neutral value as the scale minimum and maximum were blinded to the participants). Hierarchical clustering was then applied to determine which descriptors displayed similar response locations. The neutral descriptor was distributed around similar to 50 for all readiness constructs suggesting the participants were able to identify the middle of the scale for each construct. The results of the clustering approach demonstrated approximately 5-7 descriptors may be appropriate for tiredness/fatigue, stress, muscle soreness and physical readiness scales. However, energy and well-being displayed more variability amongst responses suggesting these constructs may be more complex and may require a larger number of descriptors. This information provides evidence towards the appropriate design of a custom VAS scale to measure different readiness constructs, with the potential number of appropriate descriptive anchor points being similar to 5-7 when using a 100-pt VAS.		[Whitworth-Turner, Craig M.] Seattle Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Seattle, WA 98122 USA; [Thompson, Adam] Univ Penn, Dept Intercollegiate & Recreat Athlet, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Sabin, Paul] Univ Penn, Wharton Sch, Dept Stat & Data Sci, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Whitworth-Turner, Craig M.] Seattle Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Seattle, WA 98122 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001603273800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Triolet, Celine; Delabarre, Lucile; Vignais, Nicolas; Teulier, Caroline								Contextual cues and stance decision-making in tennis forehand professional tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			933	940		10.1177/17479541251388815			APR 2026	2026	In tennis, both open and square stances are used to produce forehands, although few differences have been found between them in terms of biomechanical or ball speed advantages. Hence, it is currently unclear why expert players decide to change their stance during rallies. The objective of this study was to analyze the influence of the context before the stroke on the players' stance choice. Based on video analysis of men and women professional tennis matches, 2479 stances chosen by twenty players were recorded, considering contextual factors such as "balance of power" and direction of the ball to be played. Results revealed that open stance was used significantly more than square stance in 83.6% of the forehands, with no difference between women and men. These rates varied based on the balance of power, with fewer open stance during favorable situations (65.4%). The direction of the ball played influenced the choice of stance in favorable situations, with fewer open stance being used to play cross court. Taken all together, these results showed an interaction between factors preceding the forehand stroke when adopting a stance in tennis. When players had little time to make a choice, they overwhelmingly used open stances. This choice can be automated, which reduces the attentional load. On the other hand, when they had more time, they varied their type of stance according to the zone being played, with inter-individual differences. The findings could provide valuable insights for coaches to optimize training and improve players' decision-making efficiency.		[Triolet, Celine; Delabarre, Lucile; Teulier, Caroline] Univ Paris Saclay, CIAMS, F-91405 Orsay, France; [Triolet, Celine; Delabarre, Lucile; Teulier, Caroline] Univ Orleans, CIAMS, F-45067 Orleans, France; [Vignais, Nicolas] Univ Rennes, M2S, INRIA, F-35000 Rennes, France; [Triolet, Celine] Univ Paris Saclay, Fac Sci Sport, Rue Pierre Coubertin,Batiment 335, F-91405 Orsay, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001599633700001	27	Article; Article		
J	Gutierrez-Santiago, Alfonso; Gonzalez-Harcevnicow, Manuel Alberto; Prieto-Lage, Ivan								Effectiveness of the Judo Mat in teaching <i>Tai Otoshi</i> during judo initiation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1006	1015		10.1177/17479541251387850			APR 2026	2026	This study examines the effectiveness of the Judo Mat as a didactic tool in the teaching of the tai otoshi throwing technique during the initial stages of judo instruction. A total of 108 university students without prior experience in judo participated in the study. Participants were randomly assigned to three groups: a control group receiving traditional instruction, an experimental group exposed to the Judo Mat in other techniques but not in tai otoshi, and a second experimental group that used the Judo Mat specifically to learn tai otoshi. An observational and experimental methodology was used, assessing the presence of technical errors through the SOBJUDO-TAI v.2 instrument. Statistical analyses included Pearson's chi-square test and Fisher's exact test, along with multiple comparison corrections using Holm-Bonferroni and Benjamini-Hochberg procedures. Among the errors analyzed, only the incorrect positioning of the right foot (IRFP) showed statistically significant differences between groups after correction (adjusted p < 0.001), with a large effect size (Cram & eacute;r's V = 0.403). The group using the Judo Mat specifically for tai otoshi demonstrated a lower frequency of this error. No significant differences were observed in the remaining categories. These findings suggest that the Judo Mat may be effective in addressing specific technical errors when applied directly to the target skill, but its overall impact on performance improvement remains limited.		[Gutierrez-Santiago, Alfonso; Gonzalez-Harcevnicow, Manuel Alberto; Prieto-Lage, Ivan] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport, Observat Res Grp, Pontevedra, Spain; [Gutierrez-Santiago, Alfonso] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport, Pontevedra, Spain; [Gutierrez-Santiago, Alfonso] Fac Ciencias Educ Deporte, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001597082300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Zhong, Yuming; Langan-Evans, Carl; Weldon, Anthony; Roberts, Charlie Jon; Gee, Thomas, I; Lakicevic, Nemanja; Xu, Kai; Zheng, Hang; Tao, Meiling; Deng, Hengzhi; Zhang, Boyi; Wu, Yukun; Liu, Shaoyun; Jiang, Haidong; Qiu, Junqiang; Li, Yongming								Weight loss practices, perceptions, and eating disorders among Chinese female adolescent combat sports athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			988	1005		10.1177/17479541251377640			APR 2026	2026	This study investigated the weight loss (WL) practices, perceptions, and eating disorders (ED) symptoms of Chinese female adolescent combat sport (CS) athletes. An adapted Rapid WL Questionnaire (RWLQ) and Eating Disorder Examination-Questionnaire 8 (EDE-Q8) were completed during the off-season of female adolescent CS athletes to provide WL practices, perceptions, and global ED score. There were 130 and 78 respondents for the adapted RWLQ and EDE-Q8, respectively. Seventy-three percent of participants purposefully engaged in WL practices. The average habitual WL was 8.0% of body mass (BM), and the average highest WL was 9.1% of BM. Participants predominantly allocated 15 + days before the weigh-in for WL (65%). Coaches were most commonly reported as the primary guides for WL (64%). Athletes engage in WL mainly to compete against lighter opponents (65%). Most participants perceived that WL had no impact on health (51%), is beneficial to performance (52%), and does not lead to unfair competition (79%). Only six percent of participants were considered as having ED symptoms. No significant differences or association in global ED scores and ED symptoms were observed across any examined dependent variables. The prevalence and magnitude of WL are high amongst Chinese female adolescent CS athletes. Most athletes adopted long-term strategies to lose a substantial percentage of their BM. Athletes' WL practices did not differ according to their perceptions regarding the impact of WL on performance, health, or fairness. Off-season prevalence of ED symptoms and global ED score showed no significant differences or associations with athletes' habitual WL behaviors.		[Zhong, Yuming; Xu, Kai; Zheng, Hang; Tao, Meiling; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Langan-Evans, Carl] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Weldon, Anthony; Roberts, Charlie Jon] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci, Birmingham, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Aston Villa Fdn, Birmingham, England; [Gee, Thomas, I] Univ Lincoln, Sch Psychol Sport Sci & Wellbeing, Lincoln, England; [Lakicevic, Nemanja] Lomonosov Moscow State Univ, Fac Psychol, Moscow, Russia; [Lakicevic, Nemanja] Fed Sci Ctr Psychol & Interdisciplinary Res, Moscow, Russia; [Deng, Hengzhi] Univ Malaya, Fac Sports & Exercise Sci, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Zhang, Boyi] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Cardiol & Sports Med, Cologne, Germany; [Wu, Yukun] Dali Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Dali, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Liu, Shaoyun] Shaolin Tagou Wushu Sch, Kaifeng, Henan, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Haidong] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Martial Arts, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Qiu, Junqiang] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Coaching, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001595434300001	119	Article; Article		
J	Kao, San-Fu; Tsai, Chou-Yu; Wang, Sheng-Bin; Hsieh, Ming-Hui; Hsu, Chien-Ming								Effects of transformational coaches on athlete mental toughness: Dual mediating roles of task-involving climate perception and coach-athlete relationship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			657	669		10.1177/17479541251380718			APR 2026	2026	Research on coach transformational leadership and athlete mental toughness has yet to fully explore the influence of processes and mechanisms linking the two. This study examines two mediating pathways: task-involving climate perception and coach-athlete relationship quality. Grounded in self-determination and conservation of resource theories, we propose that coach transformational leadership fosters a supportive environment and offers a leader-follower exchange relationship as resources, which in turn strengthens mental toughness. We surveyed 301 volleyball players and utilized path analyses with bootstrapping methods to examine our hypotheses. Our findings indicate that an athlete's task-involving climate perception and coach-athlete exchange relationship play pivotal roles in determining the indirect impacts of coach transformational leadership on athlete mental toughness. We identify the intricate nature of coach transformational leadership, which encourages the development of athlete self-determination and cultivates high-quality coach-athlete relationships, consequently bolstering athlete mental toughness.		[Kao, San-Fu; Hsu, Chien-Ming] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Tsai, Chou-Yu] SUNY Binghamton, Binghamton, NY USA; [Wang, Sheng-Bin] Natl Yang Ming Chiao Tung Univ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hsieh, Ming-Hui] Natl Chengchi Univ, Phys Educ Off, Taipei, Taiwan; [Kao, San-Fu] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, 101 Sect 2,Kuang Fu Rd, Hsinchu 30014, Taiwan								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001586411600001	60	Article; Article		
J	Machado, Guilherme; Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto; Teoldo, Israel								Two genders, different roads? Comparing talent development pathways between female and male elite football players in Brazil								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			899	909		10.1177/17479541251377537			APR 2026	2026	The purpose of this study was threefold: 1) to compare the engagement in various types and amounts of football activities during childhood and adolescence between female and male Brazilian elite youth football players; 2) to test what talent development pathway characterizes youth development in female and male players; and 3) to compare the practice structure between both genders. Participants were 180 U-18 elite football players (98 female, 82 male) competing in the national league. The Participant History Questionnaire measured football activities across childhood (6-12 y/o) and early adolescence (13-15 y/o). Female players-initiated football activities (play, practice, competition, and 11 x 11 games) later and were less involved in structured football activities during childhood and early adolescence than males (p < .05). Conversely, female players accumulated similar futsal hours in childhood and significantly more in early adolescence (p < .05). Despite males accumulating greater overall practice volume, both genders exhibited a very similar percentual practice structure (e.g., individual, pair, and group tactics). We concluded that U-18 Brazilian elite youth football players differ in milestones and engagement in practice activities. However, despite varying participation amounts, the talent development pathways for both genders were characterized by the specialized sampling model.		[Machado, Guilherme; Teoldo, Israel] Univ Fed Vicosa, Ctr Res & Studies Soccer NUPEF, Dept Phys Educ, Vicosa, Brazil; [Machado, Guilherme; Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Educ, EDAF Res Grp, Albacete, Spain; [Machado, Guilherme] Paulista Football Federat FPF, Sci Dept, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Machado, Guilherme] Paulista Football Federat FPF, Dept Athletes Integrat & Dev, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Machado, Guilherme] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Phys Educ, Campus Vicosa,Ave PH Rolfs,S N Campus Univ, BR-36570900 Vicosa, MG, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001576167300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Pilgrim, Ashlee E.; Mann, Kerry J.; Drinkwater, Eric J.; Dionigi, Rylee A.; Buzza, Gavin								The effects of repeated snatch lifts on lumbar spine mechanics in high-intensity functional trained athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1016	1023		10.1177/17479541251376811			APR 2026	2026	This study aimed to determine if lumbar spine joint mechanics altered during a power snatch protocol. Eighteen high-intensity functional training (HIFT) athletes performed two countermovement jumps (CMJ) before and after a 30-repetition power snatch protocol at 70% of one repetition maximum. Three-dimensional kinematics and kinetics were collected simultaneously during the power snatch protocol. Average data from five events of the second and third, and twenty-ninth and thirtieth power snatches were compared. At the end of the power snatch protocol, there was a significant decrease in CMJ height (5.4 cm). The power snatch protocol showed a significant decrease in T12-L1 intervertebral joint extension angle (5.3 degrees, p = 0.04; g = 0.65) at the recovery event. Velocity significantly (p = 0.03-0.05), moderately (g = 0.52-0.75) increased for the T12-L1 left rotation (23 degrees.s-1) and L5-S1 right rotation (23.9 degrees.s-1) at the end of the second pull event, whereas L5-S1 right lateral flexion velocity (17.8 degrees.s-1) decreased at the catch event. Finally, the L5-S1 flexor moment (-4.06 Nm) significantly changed to an extensor moment (0.46 Nm) at the transition event (p = 0.018, g = 0.75). These findings suggest that substantial neuromuscular impairment induced by high-intensity repeated power snatches does not necessarily result in a decline of lumbar spine lifting mechanics, rather athletes may elicit a protective 'stiffening' of the spinal region.		[Pilgrim, Ashlee E.; Mann, Kerry J.; Dionigi, Rylee A.; Buzza, Gavin] Charles Sturt Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Exercise & Sports Sci, Fac Sci & Hlth, Port Macquarie, NSW, Australia; [Drinkwater, Eric J.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Buzza, Gavin] Charles Sturt Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Exercise & Sports Sci, Port Macquarie, NSW 2444, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001571727400001	54	Article; Article		
J	Los Arcos, Asier; Goncalves, Bruno; Folgado, Hugo; Gonzalez-Artetxe, Asier								Adding extra balls elicits tactical variability and external load in youth women's football training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			877	886		10.1177/17479541251375030			APR 2026	2026	This study compares the effects of introducing multiple or different balls in training games on the tactical and physical performance, enjoyment, and perceived competence of young female association football players. Fourteen trained/developmental under-14 players participated in five 3 x 6-min eight-a-side games: normal conditions, and changing the number (two and three simultaneously) and type (tennis and fitball) of balls. Players' positional data were collected to assess tactical (spatial exploration index, distances to the nearest teammate and to the nearest opponent, and their entropy measures) and physical (total and low-to-moderate, high speed, very high speed, and sprinting distances covered) performances. Participants also rated their perceptions of enjoyment and competence. Tactical and physical variables (p < .001) and enjoyment (p < .05) significantly differed across conditions, but not perceived competence. With multiple balls, players explored less (Cohen's d(unbiased) = -0.96 to -1.04) and played further away from each other (Cohen's d(unbiased) = 0.48 to 1.10), while playing closer (Cohen's d(unbiased) = -0.53 to -2.38) with different balls. Using multiple balls also increased the entropy-based metrics of spatial exploration (Cohen's d(unbiased) = 1.14 to 1.61) and proximity (Cohen's d(unbiased) = 0.38 to 0.97), the total distance covered (Cohen's d(unbiased) = 0.54 to 0.80), and the distances covered at the highest speeds (Cohen's d(unbiased) = 0.39 to 0.74). Enjoyment was higher in normal conditions than in manipulated conditions (Cohen's d(unbiased) = 0.49 to 0.99). Academy coaches can incorporate additional balls to increase tactical variability and external load in female footballers to support their development, while the outcomes of using different balls depend on their properties.		[Los Arcos, Asier; Gonzalez-Artetxe, Asier] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Araba, Spain; [Los Arcos, Asier; Gonzalez-Artetxe, Asier] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Soc Sports & Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Araba, Spain; [Goncalves, Bruno; Folgado, Hugo] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Escola Saude & Desenvolvimento Humano, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno; Folgado, Hugo] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Gonzalez-Artetxe, Asier] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Lasarteko Atea 71, Vitoria 01007, Araba, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001569028500001	44	Article; Article		
J	Amdi, Christian Houmann; Cleather, Daniel John; Tallent, Jamie								Biological sex minimally affects the free-weight back squat load-velocity profile when accounting for relative strength: An exploratory study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			1055	1065		10.1177/17479541251371308			APR 2026	2026	Research suggests that biological sex and strength level influence the load-velocity profile. However, existing research have not appropriately statistically accounted for the interdependencies between sex and relative strength. This exploratory study investigated load-velocity profiles of 24 resistance-trained participants (14 males, 10 females; back squat 1.69 x and 1.28 x body mass, respectively) using mixed-effects modelling to account for relative strength and individual variability. Participants completed 2-3 incremental back squat loading tests (20 kg to one-repetition maximum [1RM]). 1RM assessments showed excellent reliability, while mean concentric velocity (MCV) at 0-40% of 1RM demonstrated good-to-excellent reliability, with reliability systematically declining at higher relative loads. Small effects of biological sex on load-velocity profiles was found at 0-40% of 1RM (0.07-0.13 m/s, BF = 10.702-47.682, pd = 91-98%), while the effects of relative strength were more pronounced at 0-70% of 1RM (0.18-0.44 m/s, BF = 26.972-2399.000, pd = 96-100%), both with diminishing differences as relative load increased. These findings challenge assumptions about sex as a major load-velocity profile moderator when accounting for relative strength and individual variability. While exploratory and requiring replication, the study recommends future research employ more nuanced statistical methods, recruit homogeneously trained samples, and minimise measurement noise to avoid potential type-I errors.		[Amdi, Christian Houmann] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, 17 Antares Pl, Auckland, New Zealand; [Amdi, Christian Houmann; Cleather, Daniel John] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Technol & Hlth Sci, Twickenham, England; [Cleather, Daniel John] Inst Globally Distributed Open Res & Educ IGDORE, London, England; [Tallent, Jamie] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Tallent, Jamie] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy,Monash Exercise Neuroplast Res, Melbourne, Australia; [Amdi, Christian Houmann] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, 17 Antares Pl, Auckland, New Zealand								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001566519800001	70	Article; Article		
J	Jimenez, Pablo Pretel; Garcia-Aliaga, Abraham; Vivar, Guillermo Mateos; Sillero-Quintana, Manuel								Influence of coach presence and verbal stimulation on exercise intensity and technical-tactical performance during soccer-specific training in youth players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			713	723		10.1177/17479541251366278			APR 2026	2026	This manuscript examines the influence of different types of feedback provided by the coach during small-sided games (SSG) on players' performance. Sixteen U-16 amateur, healthy, and well-trained soccer players (age: 15.28 +/- 0.48 years) participated in this study, playing several 3-min 4v4 SSG under the following conditions: 1) Absence of a coach (AC), 2) presence of a coach (PC), 3) general verbal stimulation (VS) from the coach, 4) verbal stimulation with offensive instructions (VS_OF), and 5) verbal stimulation with defensive instructions (VS_DF). Six physical performance variables were recorded using GPS devices (Catapult Vector S7), and seven technical-tactical performance variables were recorded and evaluated through video. The statistical analysis showed how the coach's presence significantly affected the players' perceived effort (RPE) (p < .001), regardless of the type of verbal feedback provided. Defensive verbal instructions significantly influenced the total distance traveled regarding control condition (p = .046), the total number of passes made (p = .039), and the number of successful passes (p = .044). Offensive verbal instructions significantly increased the total number of passes made by the players (p = .019). and the number of successful passes (p = .004).		[Jimenez, Pablo Pretel; Garcia-Aliaga, Abraham; Vivar, Guillermo Mateos; Sillero-Quintana, Manuel] Univ Politecn Madrid UPM, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Vivar, Guillermo Mateos] INEF Madrid, Off 108,C-Martin Fierro,7, Madrid 28040, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001561042100001	44	Article; Article		
J	Fernandez-de-Osso, Ana, I; Sanchez-Trigo, Horacio								Artificial intelligence in padel performance assessment: A comparative study of result-based and computer vision-derived rankings								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			941	949		10.1177/17479541251370192			APR 2026	2026	Background Accurate evaluation of non-professional padel players is essential for optimizing training and ensuring fair competition. Traditional result-based ranking systems, often reliant on self-assessment, can be biased. In contrast, AI-driven methods utilizing computer vision and deep learning promise objective, real-time performance evaluations.Methods In this study, evaluation scores for 180 players were derived from three sources: a self-assessed result-based system (Playtomic), an AI-based system (AIball), and expert coach assessments, which served as the benchmark. AIball is a computer-vision-based evaluation system that automatically extracts key performance metrics. Data were collected from 50 matches across 9 clubs in Spain. Statistical analyses-including Pearson correlation, Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC), Lin's Concordance Correlation Coefficient (CCC), paired t-tests, Bland-Altman analysis, and error metrics (mean squared error [MSE], root mean squared error [RMSE], and mean absolute error [MAE])-were employed to assess the reliability, agreement, and classification accuracy of the evaluation systems.Results AIball demonstrated a strong positive correlation with coach evaluations (r = 0.7769; CCC = 0.7144) and yielded lower error metrics (MSE = 0.6689; RMSE = 0.8178; MAE = 0.6678) compared to Playtomic. Bland-Altman plots revealed that AIball's scores were more closely aligned with those of the experts, and pairwise comparisons showed a slightly higher classification accuracy for AIball (74.27%) relative to Playtomic (73.74%).Conclusion The findings indicate that the AI-based evaluation system (AIball) offers a more reliable and objective assessment of non-professional padel players than traditional self-assessed methods. This approach has significant implications for enhancing training programs, standardizing player rankings, and promoting fairness in competitions.		[Fernandez-de-Osso, Ana, I] Ctr Univ San Isidoro, Dept Social & Hlth Sci, Seville, Spain; [Sanchez-Trigo, Horacio] Univ Seville, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Seville, Spain; [Sanchez-Trigo, Horacio] Univ Seville, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Seville, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001555847900001	27	Article; Article		
J	Laxdal, Aron; Porgeirsson, Sveinn; Saavedra, Jose M.; Karunanayaka, Ruwan C.; Ivarsson, Andreas; Sigurgeirsson, Olafur; Haugen, Tommy								Is it time for a more analytical approach? Suboptimal shot selection strategies in handball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			980	987		10.1177/17479541251369049			APR 2026	2026	Increased use of analytics in sports has shed some light on various suboptimal strategies that have long been considered the norm. While sports such as basketball and baseball have adapted to a changing landscape, handball seems slow to adapt. The aim of this study was to examine i) the prevalence of high- and low-probability shots in semi-professional handball, ii) whether taking high-probability shots was associated with winning and iii) whether there were any differences between the men's and women's leagues. Six seasons in the Icelandic elite division were analyzed using a mixed-effects logistic regression model (1410 games, 879 games in the men's league and 531 games in the women's league). The study found that low-probability shots outnumbered high-probability shots (54.1% to 45.9%) and that high-probability shots were associated with winning (odds ratio of 1.46, compared to odds ratio of 0.73 in the low-probability shots). This was especially pronounced in the women's league (odds ratio of 1.77, compared to an odds ratio of 1.20 in the means league). These findings suggest that some handball teams could enhance their performance by focusing on creating high-probability shots. However, the success of such efforts depends not only on the attacking team's tactics but also on the defensive strategies employed by their opponents, which significantly influence the quality of scoring opportunities. Ultimately, the interplay between offensive and defensive approaches dictates the frequency and feasibility of high-probability shots.		[Laxdal, Aron; Ivarsson, Andreas; Haugen, Tommy] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway; [Porgeirsson, Sveinn; Saavedra, Jose M.] Reykjavik Univ, Fac Social Sci, Phys Act Phys Educ Sport & Hlth PAPESH Res Ctr, Sports Sci Dept, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Karunanayaka, Ruwan C.] Univ Fraser Valley, Dept Math & Stat, Abbotsford, BC, Canada; [Ivarsson, Andreas] Halmstad Univ, Ctr Res Welf Hlth & Sport, Halmstad, Sweden; [Sigurgeirsson, Olafur] HBStatz, Seltjarnarnes, Iceland; [Laxdal, Aron] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001554230300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Quinto, Antonella; Nicolosi, Simona; Barca, Michele; Mollame, Federico; Schembri, Rosaria; Sgro, Francesco								The development and validation of a Declarative Tactical Knowledge Test (DTK-T) in volleyball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	2			969	979		10.1177/17479541251367008			APR 2026	2026	This study aimed to develop and validate a test (DTK-T) to assess the Declarative Tactical Knowledge (DTK) in young volleyball players. Accordingly, 222 players (mean age 14.37 +/- 1.37) and 20 coaches were sampled. The players were classified into beginners and experts based on their years of training. The DTK-T was developed and validated through forward-backward translation, pilot testing, item analysis, content and construct validity, and reliability analysis. A Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) curve was built to establish which DTK-T score better identified more trained players. Construct validity analysis demonstrated a moderate test's ability to discriminate differences between beginners and experts. According to ROC analysis, 15 (on a maximum of 24) was identified as the score that better discriminates between groups (AUC = 0.78; accuracy = 0.74; sensitivity = 0.92; specificity = 0.50). The reliability of DTK-T over time was also verified (ICC = 0.80, 95%CI = [0.54,0.92]). These results indicate that the DTK-T possesses properties suitable for measuring DTK in young volleyball players.		[Quinto, Antonella; Nicolosi, Simona; Barca, Michele; Mollame, Federico; Schembri, Rosaria; Sgro, Francesco] Lab Human Movement & Sport Performance LAMP, Dept Human & Social Sci, Enna, Italy; [Quinto, Antonella; Nicolosi, Simona; Barca, Michele; Schembri, Rosaria; Sgro, Francesco] Univ Enna Kore, Dept Human & Soc Sci, I-94100 Enna, Italy; [Mollame, Federico] Univ Enna Kore, Dept Med & Surg, Enna, Italy; [Sgro, Francesco] Univ Enna Kore, Dept Human & Soc Sci, I-94100 Enna, Italy; [Sgro, Francesco] Lab Human Movement & Sport Performance LAMP, Dept Human & Social Sci, I-T94100 Enna, Sicily, Italy								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001552740000001	57	Article; Article		
J	Wallimann, Hannes; Mehr, Anna								The Impact of the UEFA Women's EURO on Hotel Overnight Stays: Evidence From a Causal Analysis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	4			478	497		10.1177/15270025261434474			MAY 2026	2026	The impact evaluation of female sports events remains an important yet neglected area of research. To fill this gap, this paper provides a timely assessment of the 2025 UEFA Women's European Championship (WEURO) in Switzerland-the largest women-specific sports event in Europe with more than 657,000 spectators. Using city-level data on hotel overnight stays, we apply the Synthetic Difference-in-Differences approach of Arkhangelsky et al.(2021) to compare WEURO host cities with non-host destinations. In summary, our results do not support strong claims of large tourism impacts but rather point to a small positive effect. Sensitivity analyses also suggest positive effects. However, confidence intervals permit firm conclusions only for the main venues, where hotel overnight stays increased by 1.6% attributable to the WEURO. Overall, our findings indicate positive but modest tourism impacts of the WEURO and outline a framework for further policy evaluation of sports events.		[Wallimann, Hannes; Mehr, Anna] Univ Appl Sci & Arts Lucerne, Inst Tourism & Mobil, Rosslimatte 48, CH-6002 Luzern, Switzerland; [Wallimann, Hannes] Univ Appl Sci & Arts Lucerne, Inst Tourism & Mobil, Rosslimatte 48, CH-6002 Luzern, Switzerland								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001728218700001	32	Article; Article		
J	Kwan, Kedric; King, Andrew; Helms, Eric R.								The Magnitude of Rapid Weight Loss Affects Subjective Stress and Recovery in Elite Powerlifters at the World Championships: An Exploratory Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2635723				2026	Rapid weight loss is common in weight category sports, and large magnitudes of it can affect performance. This study explored relationships between changes in the Short Recovery and Stress Scale (SRSS) items and the magnitude of rapid weight loss in elite powerlifters competing at the World Championships. A total of 53 powerlifters (27 males, 26 females) who competed in either the 2019 or 2022 International Powerlifting Federation World Championships participated. At 7, 2, and 0 days out from competition, the participants completed the SRSS and recorded their body mass. Cumulative link mixed models were used to explore the relationship between SRSS score and proximity to competition, competitive caliber (good lift points [GLP]), sex, and magnitude of relative weight change. On average, the participants lost -2.5% (1.83 kg) of body mass from day 7 to day 0. The results suggest that (a) elite powerlifters can decrease subjective stress and promote recovery leading into competition, (b) powerlifters with higher GLP at competition are more likely to report better recovery and negative emotional state scores, (c) higher relative magnitude of weight loss is associated with worse subjective stress and recovery scores, and (d) female powerlifters experience worse negative emotional state responses with higher relative weight loss. These findings highlight that the magnitude of rapid weight loss can affect subjective stress and recovery and provide data to inform future hypothesis testing.		[Kwan, Kedric; King, Andrew; Helms, Eric R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Auckland, New Zealand; [Helms, Eric R.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Ft Lauderdale, FL USA; [Kwan, Kedric] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, 17 Antares Pl,Mairangi Bay, Auckland 0632, New Zealand								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001726723600001	53	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Schluttenhofer, Adam; Ross, Emily S.; Smock, Cameron S.; Radel, Luke C.; Soma, David A.								Pediatric hospitalizations related to sports participation: a 10-year comparative analysis across 18 commonly played sports in the United States								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	4			295	302		10.1080/00913847.2026.2648482			JUL 4 2026	2026	Objectives Pediatric sports injuries are common, yet there is limited information on the comparative risk of hospitalization across commonly played sports in the United States. We sought to identify youth sports associated with the highest incidence of hospital admission. Additionally, we sought to analyze temporal trends over the past decade and identify risk factors for admission. Methods The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System was queried for injuries during 18 sports in patients ages 3-18 from 2014 to 2023. Injury patterns and admission rates were calculated from national estimates. Temporal change in admission rate was assessed using linear regression. Logistic regression models were used to assess age, sex, race, day of week, and sport type as risk factors for hospitalization. Results An estimated 186,695 admissions occurred during the study period, with an overall admission rate of 1.9%. The sports with the highest number of admissions per year were football (5,857, 31.4% of all admissions), basketball (3,563, 19.1%), and soccer (2,541, 13.6%). Gymnastics had the highest admission rate (3.2%), with 70% of admissions due to upper extremity fractures. Risk factors for hospitalization included male sex (OR 1.64, p < 0.001) and weekend participation (OR 1.10, p < 0.001). Hospitalization rate increased 0.08% per year (p = 0.001). Conclusion Football, basketball, and soccer contribute the majority of sports-related hospitalizations, consistent with known rates of participation and injury risk. Gymnastics has the highest admission rate among those presenting to the emergency department, commonly from upper extremity fractures. Males and those injured on the weekend are at increased risk for hospitalization. These findings should inform preventative efforts to reduce the risk of significant injury leading to hospitalization in young athletes.		[Schluttenhofer, Adam; Ross, Emily S.] Mayo Clin, Alix Sch Med, Rochester, MN USA; [Smock, Cameron S.] Mayo Clin, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Rochester, MN USA; [Radel, Luke C.; Soma, David A.] Mayo Clin, Dept Pediat & Adolescent Med, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Soma, David A.] Mayo Clin, Dept Orthoped Surg, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Soma, David A.] Mayo Clin, Dept Pediat & Adolescent Med, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Soma, David A.] Mayo Clin, Dept Orthoped Surg, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001727826700001	52	Article; Article		
J	Zedler, Marvin; Goldmann, Jan-Peter; Alt, Tobias; Braunstein, Bjoern; Potthast, Wolfgang								Advancing the concept of technical ability of force application in sprint acceleration								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2648282				2026	Technical ability of force application (sagittal force vector orientation) is considered a performance determinant in sprint acceleration, yet the underlying kinematics require further investigation. Sixteen elite male bobsleigh athletes performed unresisted and resisted (85 kg sled push) accelerations initiated with full effort, while ground reaction forces and kinematics were recorded for ground contacts 1 to 5. Ratio of forces (RF), body position, centre of mass velocity components, and lower limb segment rotations were examined for correlations and differences between acceleration tasks. RF was significantly associated with body position (unresisted: r = .82, p < .001; resisted: r = .83, p < .001) and extensional velocity components (unresisted: r = .83, p < .001; resisted: r = .90, p < .001). There was also a significant correlation between body position and extensional velocity component (unresisted: r = .98, p < .001; resisted: r = .84, p < .001) regardless of acceleration task. Shank orientation significantly explained variance in body position (unresisted: adj. R-2 = .86, p < .001; resisted: adj. R-2 = .81, p < .001). Resisted acceleration provoked greater RF and forward orientations as well as higher shares of extensional velocity components. To improve technical ability, practitioners should focus on manipulating body position to increase the extensional velocity component as well as on shank segment rotation in preparation for the ground contact phase.		[Zedler, Marvin; Goldmann, Jan-Peter; Braunstein, Bjoern; Potthast, Wolfgang] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany; [Zedler, Marvin; Goldmann, Jan-Peter; Braunstein, Bjoern; Potthast, Wolfgang] German Sport Univ Cologne, German Res Ctr Elite Sport Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Alt, Tobias] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Westphalia, Dept Biomech Performance Anal & Strength & Conditi, Dortmund, Germany; [Braunstein, Bjoern] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Movement & Neurosci, Cologne, Germany; [Braunstein, Bjoern] German Sport Univ Cologne, Ctr Hlth & Integrat Physiol Space, Cologne, Germany; [Zedler, Marvin] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany; [Zedler, Marvin] German Sport Univ Cologne, German Res Ctr Elite Sport Cologne, Cologne, Germany								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001727811900001	23	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhang, Han; Wen, Yuhong; Bu, He; Zhu, Huachen; Han, Mengna; Liu, Jinyu								Kinematic determinants of the Tomoa skip starting in elite male speed climbing athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2649469				2026	This study investigated the kinematic characterise of the Tomoa skip start in speed climbing. Eleven male athletes were analysed using the Fastmove 3D Motion system to quantify their joint angles, temporal parameters and contact point characteristics. The start phase was divided into three distinct stages: the pre-swing, push and climbing stages. The results revealed that lower limb joint angles demonstrated a stronger correlation with start performance than upper limb angles throughout the entire phase. Notably, joint angles during the climbing stage exhibited the greatest influence on start time. Additionally, shorter limb contact times were associated with better start performance. These findings suggest that technical models for the Tomoa skip start should prioritise lower body kinematics and minimising ground contact to optimise performance.		[Zhang, Han; Wen, Yuhong; Bu, He; Zhu, Huachen; Han, Mengna] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Recreat Sport & Tourism, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Liu, Jinyu] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Competit Sports, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wen, Yuhong] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Recreat Sport & Tourism, Beijing, Peoples R China								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001726754300001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Di Gioia, Giuseppe; Ferrera, Armando; Rigillo, Margherita; Monosilio, Sara; Mango, Federica; Maestrini, Viviana; Macori, Lucrezia; Spada, Raffaella; Squeo, Maria Rosaria								Exploring morpho-functional and cardiometabolic parameters in elite female athletes with extreme anthropometry								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	4			303	313		10.1080/00913847.2026.2649722			JUL 4 2026	2026	Purpose: Exercise-induced cardiac adaptation in female athletes with extreme anthropometry remains poorly defined. The aim of this study is to analyze cardiovascular and hematological features of female athletes with extreme anthropometric indices. Methods: Olympic female athletes underwent medical evaluation including CPET and echocardiography. According to BMI and height athletes were divided into Group A (height > 186.1 cm and BMI < 27.7 kg/m(2)), Group B (height <= 186.1 cm and BMI > 27.7 kg/m(2)), and Group C (height 164-175 cm and BMI between 20.4 kg/m(2) and 23.5 kg/m(2)). Results: 1137 athletes were enrolled (mean age 25.2 +/- 5 years old, mean height 169.9 +/- 8.1 cm, and mean BMI 22.1 +/- 2.8 kg/m(2)). Athletes with extreme anthropometry showed same functional parameters (p = 0.071) although different relative VO(2)max (VO2 max = 39.8 +/- 6.1 mL/min/kg in group C, 33.5 +/- 5.5 mL/min/kg in group B, and 29.2 +/- 7.4 mL/min/kg in group A, p < 0.0001), larger LV (LVEDD = 52.7 +/- 3.2 mm in A, 50.9 +/- 3.2 mm in B, and 49.4 +/- 3 mm in control group, p < 0.0001), and, particularly in Group B, thicker IVS and PWT (p < 0.0001). Athletes with higher BMI showed a globally higher CV risk profile. Conclusion: Athletes with extreme anthropometry exhibit, especially those with a high BMI, worse cardiovascular risk despite the same cardiorespiratory function. Athletes with high BMI exhibit increased LV thickness, while athletes with high height showed increased LV dimensions. Indexing for weight should not be used in extreme anthropometry.		[Di Gioia, Giuseppe; Ferrera, Armando; Monosilio, Sara; Mango, Federica; Maestrini, Viviana; Macori, Lucrezia; Spada, Raffaella; Squeo, Maria Rosaria] Natl Italian Olymp Comm, Inst Sports Med & Sci, Via Francesco Bartolomeo Rastrelli 90, I-00128 Rome, Italy; [Di Gioia, Giuseppe] Univ Rome Foro Ital, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Rome, Italy; [Rigillo, Margherita] Univ Milan, BIOMETRA Dept, Milan, Italy; [Monosilio, Sara; Maestrini, Viviana] Sapienza Univ Rome, Dept Clin Internal Anesthesiol & Cardiovasc Sci, Rome, Italy; [Di Gioia, Giuseppe] Natl Italian Olymp Comm, Inst Sports Med & Sci, Via Francesco Bartolomeo Rastrelli 90, I-00128 Rome, Italy								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001723442700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Petro-Petro, Jose; Arango-Paternina, Carlos Mario; Patino-Villada, Fredy Alonso								Social Network Intervention in Physical Education Classes Through Social Support to Promote Physical Activity and Reduce Screen Time in Adolescents: A Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2623652				2026	Physical activity (PA) and screen time (ST) are complex behaviors influenced by social factors such as relationships with family and friends, linked to mechanisms such as social support. This study implemented a segmentation-based social network intervention which is a promising approach to improving health-behaviors in a network. The objective was to determine the effects of a social network intervention through social support from friends and parents on PA and ST among adolescents. A cluster-randomized controlled trial was conducted involving 4 schools, 24 classrooms, with 787 adolescents. A segmentation-based social network intervention was implemented over ten weeks in physical education classes. Two components, ClassI involving friends support and ParentsI involving parents support was included. Follow-up was conducted at week ten post-intervention. A mixed-effects model was used to determine the effectiveness. Network mechanisms of perceived social support from friends most associated with PA and ST were explored. Findings indicated a significant increase of 12.2 daily minutes of PA in the intervention group (95% CI: 1.9 to 22.5, p = .02). Main effects suggest sustainability over time. Social support from friends and parents was significant (p < .001), and homophily was positively associated with PA (p < .05). For ST, a reduction of 56.7 minutes was observed in the intervention group (95% CI: -105.2 to -8.1, p = .02). Main effects indicate that the effectiveness for ST was not sustainable over time. Implementing a social support network intervention from friends and parents within physical education classes is effectively increased daily PA and decreased ST among adolescents.		[Petro-Petro, Jose; Arango-Paternina, Carlos Mario; Patino-Villada, Fredy Alonso] Univ Antioquia, Medellin, Colombia; [Petro-Petro, Jose] Univ Cordoba, Cordoba, Spain; [Petro-Petro, Jose] Univ Antioquia, Inst Univ Educ Fis, Cra 75 65-87-Block 45, Medellin, Colombia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001723465000001	98	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Barkoukis, Vassilis; O'shea, Deirdre; Ourda, Despoina; Mcintyre, Tadhg; Moritzer, Severin; Pasini, Federico; Partington, Neil								The Role of Moral Disengagement and Perceived Ethical Climate in Match-Fixing Susceptibility Amongst Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2623653				2026	Match-fixing represents a major threat to sports integrity. However, evidence on mechanisms underlying the psychological processes related to the decision to engage in match-fixing is limited. To address this gap, the present study was designed to investigate the interplay between moral disengagement and ethical climate on match-fixing susceptibility. Competitive athletes from three countries (N = 406, Mage = 22.07, SD = 5.64, 83.4% males) competed measures of match-fixing susceptibility, moral disengagement and perceptions of the ethical climate in their team. The results indicated a positive relationship between moral disengagement and match-fixing susceptibility. Perceived team internal ethical climate moderated the relationship between moral disengagement and match-fixing susceptibility. A stronger positive relationship emerged between moral disengagement and match-fixing susceptibility in participants with higher than average levels of perceived team ethical climate. The findings of the study provide valuable information on the interplay of moral disengagement and perceptions of team ethical climate in predicting susceptibility to engage into match-fixing.		[Barkoukis, Vassilis; Ourda, Despoina] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Serres, Greece; [Barkoukis, Vassilis] Frederick Univ, Frederick, Cyprus; [O'shea, Deirdre] Univ Limerick, Limerick, Ireland; [Mcintyre, Tadhg] Maynooth Univ, Maynooth, Ireland; [Moritzer, Severin] Code Fair Play, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Pasini, Federico] Univ Durham, Durham, England; [Partington, Neil] Univ Sussex, Sussex, England; Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Barkoukis, Vassilis] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Serres, Greece; [Barkoukis, Vassilis] Frederick Univ, Frederick, Cyprus								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001723424200001	74	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Nascimento, Eduardo Marcel Fernandes; Klitzke Borszcz, Fernando; Ventura, Thiago Pereira; Antunes, Diego; Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme Antonacci; de Lucas, Ricardo Dantas								Thresholds Derived From Muscle NIRS Signal, Heart Rate Variability, and Ventilatory Parameters During an Incremental Cycling Test: An Agreement Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2645354				2026	This study aimed to compare different thresholds obtained from the muscle near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), heart rate variability (HRV), HR and ventilatory parameters during a maximal incremental cycling test. Twenty trained male cyclists performed an incremental step test with breath-by-breath gas analysis, muscle NIRS-derived signal, HRV and HR continuously recorded. The first and second ventilatory thresholds (VT1 and VT2, respectively) were identified and compared to the other methods. The DMAX method was used to determine the NIRS-derived thresholds by oxygenated hemoglobin (O2HbT), deoxygenated hemoglobin (HHbT), tissue saturation index (TSIT); HRV-derived thresholds by standard deviation of the instantaneous (SD1T) and continuous long-term RR intervals (SD2T) and HR deflection point. No significant differences were found between VT1 and O2HbT (171 +/- 25 vs 179 +/- 46 W; SEE = 23.0 W), VT1 and SD1T (171 +/- 39 W; SEE = 26.2 W) and VT1 and SD2T (185 +/- 37 W; SEE = 21.7 W); as well as between VT2 and TSIT (242 +/- 28 vs 230 +/- 61 W; SEE = 25.1 W), when expressed as power-output, respectively. The standard error of estimate for these comparisons is approximately equivalent to one incremental stage (25 W). However, agreement analysis showed substantial inter-individual error (LoA up to +/- 107 W). This wide variability limits their precision for individual prescription, suggesting these methods should complement rather than substitute ventilatory thresholds.		[Nascimento, Eduardo Marcel Fernandes; Klitzke Borszcz, Fernando; Ventura, Thiago Pereira; Antunes, Diego; Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme Antonacci; de Lucas, Ricardo Dantas] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Santa Catarina, Brazil; [Klitzke Borszcz, Fernando] Univ Santa Catarina State, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Nascimento, Eduardo Marcel Fernandes] Doutor Elmo Kinseski 1020, BR-88495000 Santa Catarina, SC, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001723305200001	54	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Gledhill, Adam; Back, Jenny; Svensson, Joar; Svedberg, Petra; Johnson, Urban; Visek, Amanda J.; Lind, John; Ivarsson, Andreas								An investigation of Swedish children and adolescents' fun priorities in youth ice hockey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261431036				2026	The fun integration theory provides a theoretical framework for understanding the totality of determinants that make sport fun. Understanding the relative prioritisation of those determinants for youth sport participants is one way of creating environments that encourage continued participation and mitigate dropout. Like many sports around the world, in Sweden, dropout in youth ice hockey typically occurs during early to mid-adolescence. This study is part of ongoing efforts to explore determinants of fun, and players' prioritisation of those determinants, in Swedish ice hockey. Junior ice hockey players (n = 343) aged 10-19 years were asked to rate the importance of 83 fun determinants previously identified among Swedish youth athletes; these determinants were organized into 11 fun factors in parallel with previous research, and importance of the fun factors and determinants explored by subgroup comparisons. Results indicated few differences, and overwhelming similarity of players' fun priorities when compared by sex, age, and perceived competence, with the fun factors Trying Hard, Positive Team Dynamics, and Positive Coaching of highest priority across all subgroups, and the fun determinant 'trying your best' rated highest. These findings support the fun integration theory's previous findings of a fun ethos, that is, a distinct and similar prioritisation of the fun factors and determinants regardless of player characteristics. Overall, results demonstrate generalisability of the fun integration theory and further contributing to this important and growing body of knowledge.		[Gledhill, Adam; Lind, John] Swedish Ice Hockey Assoc, Johanneshov, Sweden; [Gledhill, Adam] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Back, Jenny; Svensson, Joar; Svedberg, Petra; Johnson, Urban; Ivarsson, Andreas] Halmstad Univ, Sch Hlth & Welf, Halmstad, Sweden; [Visek, Amanda J.] George Washington Univ, Milken Inst, Sch Publ Hlth, Washington, DC USA; [Gledhill, Adam] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001720315900001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fraczek, Natalia; Robbins, Lorraine B.; Varpaei, Hesam A.; Arcoleo, Kimberly; Clevenger, Kimberly; Ling, Jiying								Relationships of Social Support, Motivation, and Self-Efficacy With Physical Activity Among Adolescents Aged 10-14: A Cross-Sectional Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2619085				2026	This cross-sectional study involved secondary data analysis to: (1) examine relationships between psychosocial factors (autonomous motivation for physical activity [PA], PA self-efficacy, social support for PA) and various levels of PA intensity (light PA [LPA], moderate PA [MPA], vigorous PA [VPA]), and moderate-to-vigorous PA [MVPA]) in adolescents aged 10-14 years in the U.S.; and (2) investigate the influence of demographic, physiological, and activity-related characteristics (age, sex, race/ethnicity, body mass index [BMI], annual family income, cardiorespiratory fitness [CRF; estimated maximal oxygen uptake: VO2 max], current sports or cheerleading team participation, and non-sport PA program participation) on various PA intensities. In 2022-2024, adolescents completed demographic and psychosocial surveys and wore accelerometers to assess PA. Of 935 adolescents enrolled, 623 (66.6%) provided valid accelerometer data (>= 4 days). Structural equation modeling was used. MPA, VPA, and MVPA were positively associated with male sex, higher CRF, and sports or cheerleading team participation. Age and BMI z-score were negative predictors of MVPA and VPA. MPA was negatively associated with age, and LPA was negatively associated with annual family income. Social support for PA predicted autonomous motivation for PA and PA self-efficacy. Indirect effects of social support on the various levels of PA intensity via autonomous motivation or PA self-efficacy were not significant. Strengthening social support for PA may enhance adolescents' autonomous motivation for PA and PA self-efficacy to help them increase PA. However, indirect effects on the PA levels were not statistically significant. Findings underscore the promise and limitations of psychosocial pathways.ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT04213014.		[Fraczek, Natalia; Robbins, Lorraine B.; Varpaei, Hesam A.; Arcoleo, Kimberly; Ling, Jiying] Michigan State Univ, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Clevenger, Kimberly] Utah State Univ, Logan, UT USA; [Robbins, Lorraine B.] Michigan State Univ, Coll Nursing, 1355 Bogue St, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001719041100001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Petway, Adam J.; Harper, Damian; Cohen, Daniel; Eriksrud, Ola								Influence of maximal linear deceleration on lateral deceleration and shuffle performance in NCAA power 4 basketball athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261432362				2026	The sport of basketball requires players to have high-level multidirectional deceleration performance to excel in training and match-play. Therefore, the aim of this present study was to investigate multidirectional deceleration performance to determine if maximal deceleration following linear running can differentiate performance in a lateral shuffle movement. One hundred and twenty-four male basketball athletes (age = 20.9 +/- 1.2 years, height = 195 +/- 14.3 cm, body mass = 89.9 +/- 10.2 kg) from 10 different NCAA Power 4 basketball programs participated in this study. Deceleration ability was evaluated based on maximal deceleration (Decel Max) following a linear acceleration using a 10 m acceleration-deceleration ability (ADA) test and lateral deceleration using a 5-5 lateral shuffle test. The cohort was split by position (Guards and Bigs) and dichotomized into high and low deceleration capabilities (High Dec Bigs, High Dec Guards, Low Dec Bigs, Low Dec Guards) based on results from the 10 m ADA. In the 5-5 lateral shuffle test, High Dec Bigs had significantly lower total time (3.68 +/- 0.24 s) compared to the Low Dec Bigs (3.90 +/- 0.32 s; ES = 0.78; p < 0.001), and High Dec Guards significantly lower total time (3.62 +/- 0.23 s) than Low Dec Guards (3.76 +/- 0.26 s; ES = 0.57; p = 0.01), as well as significantly higher Decel Max (Bigs ES = 0.93; Guards ES = 0.87). These findings highlight the relevance of linear deceleration capacity as a potential determinant of lateral movement performance in elite basketball.		[Petway, Adam J.] Univ Louisville, Hlth & Sports Sci Dept, Louisville, KY USA; [Petway, Adam J.] Aisin Corp, Seahorses Mikawa Basketball Club, Kariya, Aichi, Japan; [Harper, Damian] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Sch Hlth Social Work & Sport, Preston, England; [Cohen, Daniel] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Eriksrud, Ola] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Petway, Adam J.] Univ Louisville, Hlth & Sports Sci, Louisville, KY 40208 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001719447800001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Braga-Pereira, Ricardo; Bernardo-Ramos, Joao; Castro-Vigario, Pedro; Duarte, Daniel; Teques, Pedro								Unveiling the coach-athlete relationship in Major international competitions: A qualitative study of national team coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261431543				2026	Although the coach-athlete relationship has been widely examined across competitive levels, limited research has focused on its dynamics within elite national team settings. This study explored the coach-athlete relationship in the context of national team coaches participating in major international competitions (e.g., European Championships, World Championships, and Olympic Games). A semi-structured protocol was used to interview 13 elite national team coaches from team and individual sports. A reflexive thematic analysis revealed three higher-order themes: (1) Coaching identities are shaped through experience and transition, highlighting how national team coaches build their profiles through personal pathways, lifelong learning, and relational competence; (2) Constructing performance beyond skill, showing that athlete selection transcends technical-tactical criteria, integrating psychosocial fit and team dynamics; and (3) Navigating connections in high-stakes contexts, illustrating how relational management, closeness, and complementarity influence sports success across competition phases. These findings expand existing knowledge by offering an in-depth understanding of coach-athlete relationship in elite national team settings, emphasising the interplay between individual profiles and relational processes. This study reinforces the importance of relational expertise as a core coaching skill and underlines the value of adaptive leadership in managing interpersonal dynamics. The practical implications include guiding the design of professional development programmes to strengthen interpersonal coaching skills and informing selection and communication strategies within national teams. By addressing a gap in the literature, this study contributes to enhancing the quality of coach-athlete interactions in high-performance environments and offers practical insights for federations, coaching organisations, and sport governing bodies aiming to optimise professional development and team performance.		[Braga-Pereira, Ricardo; Bernardo-Ramos, Joao; Castro-Vigario, Pedro; Duarte, Daniel] Polytech Inst Maia, Res Ctr, N2i, Maia, Portugal; [Braga-Pereira, Ricardo; Duarte, Daniel; Teques, Pedro] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Castro-Vigario, Pedro] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Teques, Pedro] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Sch Life Sci & Environm, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Vila Real, Portugal; [Braga-Pereira, Ricardo] Polytech Inst Maia, Res Ctr, N2i, Maia, Portugal; [Braga-Pereira, Ricardo] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001718954600001	81	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Michael, Isaac; Norris, Dean; Bennie, Andrew								What decisions do coaches make during professional Australian football matches? A qualitative content analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261433209				2026	The aim of the study was to categorise coaches' decision making during professional Australian Football matches by assessing messages they send to players. A secondary aim was to identify how messages change throughout a match, based on environmental constraints such as the score margin and the match quarter. Messages from three coaching groups at one professional Australian Football club were recorded during matches (n = 35) across two seasons of the Australian Football League. Qualitative content analysis was used to categorise coaches' messages to players to generate five categories that describe aspects of team performance that coaches' decisions addressed during matches: Movement and Positioning, Contest and Stoppage, Ball Movement, Feedback on Performance, and Personnel Change. The findings revealed varying use of the categories by the three coaching groups. Coaching group 2 sent a higher proportion of Contest and Stoppage messages than the other two groups, while coaching group 3 had sent a higher proportion of Personnel Change messages than the other coaching groups. This highlights the different areas of performance that coaches' address through their messaging. Possible connections were found between the score margin, match quarter, and the types of decisions coaches made during matches, such as more Feedback on Performance messages being sent in the first quarter of the match and while the team was in a winning position. This study has implications for researchers and practitioners working with coaches who wish to categorise coaching communication during matches and reflect on decisions being made throughout a match.		[Michael, Isaac] Western Sydney Univ, Campbelltown, NSW 2560, Australia; [Norris, Dean] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci Dharawal Land, Campbelltown, NSW, Australia; [Bennie, Andrew] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Hlth & Phys Educ & Sport Dev Darug Country, Campbelltown, NSW, Australia; [Michael, Isaac] Western Sydney Univ, Campbelltown, NSW 2560, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001718954200001	23	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kleshnev, Valery								Efficiency of various blade types in rowing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2643775				2026	The purposes of the study were: a) to develop a novel method to determine the centre of pressure acting on the blade by combining measurements from multiple shaft-mounted strain-gauge sensors, b) to experimentally evaluate the factors affecting blade efficiency and overall effectiveness in rowing using three different blade designs. One international-level male rower performed step-rate trials using each blade type, while biomechanical data were collected with the BioRow system. Results showed that although biomechanical characteristics such as stroke length, force profiles, and power output were generally similar across blades, hydrodynamic performance differed. Fat2 blades, due to their larger surface area, demonstrated the lowest blade slippage and highest propulsive efficiency. However, Comp blades-despite having the smallest area-provided the most effective performance, defined as the highest boat speed per unit of rower power, as reflected by the lowest Gross Drag Factor. Analysis of forces revealed that the actual centre of pressure was located more inboard than previously assumed, resulting in 7-8% heavier true gearing ratios. These findings suggest that blade effectiveness cannot be predicted solely from its slippage through the water and that smaller Comp blades may reduce rotational and axial losses, contributing to improved rowing performance.		[Kleshnev, Valery] BioRow Ltd, Slough, England; [Kleshnev, Valery] Sci Res Inst Phys Culture, Sports Dept, St Petersburg, Russia; [Kleshnev, Valery] BioRow Ltd, Slough, England; [Kleshnev, Valery] Sci Res Inst Phys Culture, Sports Dept, St Petersburg, Russia								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001719584800001	11	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Budner, Jeremy; Schneider, Rodrigo								Thieves Around the Stadium: Comparing the Effects of Football and Soccer on Crime								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	4			395	425		10.1177/15270025261422473			MAY 2026	2026	Operating on granular, publicly available crime data from 2017-2022, we utilize negative binomial regressions to investigate the spatial relationship between gamedays and crime in Atlanta, comparing effects of football and soccer. Our models suggest that football increases crime near the stadium in Atlanta substantially relative to the effects of soccer. Football games are correlated with a 113% increase in crime-concentrated within 0.5 miles of the stadium and robust across models. We support our findings using a temporal analysis within gamedays, which illustrates that the distribution of crimes is centered around the hours surrounding the start of the game. Our results support the existence of a substitution effect of crime towards the stadium on game days and the existence of demographic differences between football and soccer fans in the United States. Mercedes-Benz stadium should implement additional security measures, including free lockers within the stadium, to shield their patrons from theft.		[Budner, Jeremy] Univ Calif Irvine, Dept Econ, Irvine, CA 92697 USA; [Schneider, Rodrigo] Skidmore Coll, Dept Econ, Saratoga Springs, NY 12866 USA; [Budner, Jeremy] Univ Calif Irvine, Dept Econ, Irvine, CA 92697 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001718020900001	31	Article; Article		
J	Bini, Rodrigo; Kingsley, Michael I. C.; Collins, Blake E. G.; Gordon, Brett A.; Wundersitz, Daniel W. T.								Time-course of physiological and biomechanical responses to a single bout of high-volume exercise in recreational cyclists								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2643778				2026	As participation in ultra-long cycling events grows among recreational athletes, there remains a gap in understanding the physiological and biomechanical responses during prolonged exercise. The aim of this study was to investigate the time-course of physiological and biomechanical responses during high-volume cycling. Ten recreational cyclists (12 [range 4-50] years of experience) participated in a repeated measure cohort study. Participants performed up to 6 h of cycling at similar to 80% heart rate reserve. Objective and subjective measurements were taken hourly and included pelvis and lower limb motion, power output (PO), cadence, heart rate (HR) and rating of perceived exertion (RPE). Data were compared between the Start, Mid and End time points. No significant changes were observed in pelvic or lower limb joint angles. HR, PO, cadence and work remained stable. However, RPE increased significantly from Start to Mid (p = 0.02, d = 1.59) and Start to End (p < 0.01, d = 2.37), indicating large increases in perceived exertion. Recreational cyclists maintained consistent pelvic and lower limb biomechanics during 6 h of high-volume cycling. These findings suggest movement profile is preserved even as subjective exertion intensifies, indicating that fatigue did not interfere with cycling performance.		[Bini, Rodrigo; Kingsley, Michael I. C.; Collins, Blake E. G.; Gordon, Brett A.; Wundersitz, Daniel W. T.] La Trobe Univ, Holsworth Biomed Res Ctr, La Trobe Rural Hlth Sch, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Kingsley, Michael I. C.] Univ Auckland, Fac Sci, Dept Exercise Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Bini, Rodrigo] La Trobe Univ, Holsworth Biomed Res Ctr, La Trobe Rural Hlth Sch, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001717754700001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hwang, Jae-Hoon; Chung, Keonyoung; Cabral, Marcelo; Vazou, Spyridoula; Song, Yong-Gwan								The relationships among peer motivational climate, team preparation, and mental toughness in youth soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261429879				2026	Teamwork is a crucial process for youth sport teams to accomplish a successful season. Despite that teamwork preparation is considered an influential bridge between environmental factors and individual outcomes, there is a paucity of research investigating team preparation as a mediator. Therefore, the purpose of the study was to examine how team preparation mediates the relationship between peer motivational climate and mental toughness of male youth athletes. A total of 526 male youth soccer players of elite middle and high school, and university soccer teams completed a survey at their sport facility. Multiple regression and mediation analysis were conducted with SPSS and AMOS to examine the associations among peer motivational climate, team preparation, and mental toughness. The results showed significant positive direct associations among peer task motivational climate, team preparation, and mental toughness except for the association between peer task climate and mental toughness, and negative direct association between peer ego motivational climate and team preparation. For mediation analysis, team preparation positively and negatively mediated the relationships between peer task and ego climate, and mental toughness, respectively. These results indicate that when peer groups form a task motivational climate, athletes are likely to prepare for their season collaboratively, and it can be positively related to individuals' mentality. This underscores the importance of team preparation, and it provides practitioners with prospective insight into how they can design their coaching strategies to benefit both teams and individuals.		[Hwang, Jae-Hoon; Song, Yong-Gwan] Pukyong Natl Univ, Div Smart Healthcare, 107,Changui Bldg,Daeyeon Campus, Busan 48513, South Korea; [Chung, Keonyoung; Cabral, Marcelo; Vazou, Spyridoula] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI USA; [Song, Yong-Gwan] Pukyong Natl Univ, Div Smart Healthcare, 107,Changui Bldg,Daeyeon Campus, Busan 48513, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001717049700001	48	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kim, Taehwan; Kim, Sua; Cho, Heetae								Building exercise intention through nostalgia: The roles of intrinsic motivation and cognitive flexibility								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261432097				2026	Guided by Fredrickson's broaden-and-build theory of positive emotions, this study examined how nostalgic feelings toward past exercise experiences relate to two psychological resources-intrinsic motivation and cognitive flexibility, and whether these resources mediate the relationship between exercise nostalgia and exercise intention. A total of 324 responses were collected from individuals who reported nostalgic feelings about past exercise. Participants completed the validated self-report scales measuring exercise nostalgia, intrinsic motivation, cognitive flexibility, and exercise intention. A confirmatory factor analysis verified the internal consistency and construct validity of the measurement model. Mediation tests were conducted using Hayes's PROCESS macro (Model 6), with bias-corrected bootstrap confidence intervals to estimate indirect effects. Results showed that exercise nostalgia was positively associated with intrinsic motivation and cognitive flexibility, which were significantly associated with exercise intention. These findings underscore the potential of nostalgia-based strategies, particularly when combined with autonomy-supportive and varied training environments, to promote long-term exercise intention.		[Kim, Taehwan; Kim, Sua; Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001717137900001	97	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Cao, Yujing; Wang, Qi; Liu, Yanhao; Zhang, Xinmeng; Ran, Wenqi; Li, Junjun; Jing, Wen; Song, Qipeng								Individuals with unilateral chronic ankle instability exhibit deficits in bilateral postural control, muscle strength and proprioception								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2643338				2026	To investigate whether people with unilateral chronic ankle instability (CAI) have deficits in bilateral static and dynamic postural control, ankle muscle strength and ankle proprioception. A total of 31 participants with CAI and 31 non-CAI controls were recruited. Static postural control was assessed using root mean square (RMS) of the plantar centre of pressure (CoP) displacements during single-leg stance. Dynamic postural control was evaluated by measuring the time to stabilisation (TTS) following a single-leg drop onto a force plate. Ankle proprioception and muscle strength were measured using a proprioception testing device and an isokinetic dynamometer. A linear mixed-effects model of variance was used to examine the group (CAI vs. non-CAI) and limb (affected vs. unaffected) effects and interactions adjusting for activity level, limb dominant and injured side. Compared to non-CAI, those participants with unilateral CAI exhibited greater CoP-RMS((ML)) bilaterally (F = 4.392, p = 0.0038); longer TTS bilaterally (4.102 <= F <= 10.558, 0.002 <= p <= 0.048); less ankle muscle strength bilaterally (43.126 <= F <= 5.505, 0.022 <= p < 0.001); and larger ankle proprioceptive thresholds bilaterally (26.159 <= F <= 8.413, 0.005 <= p < 0.001). Individuals with unilateral CAI exhibit bilateral deficits in static postural control, dynamic postural control, muscle strength and proprioception. CAI rehabilitation strategies should adopt comprehensive bilateral rehabilitation approaches.		[Cao, Yujing; Jing, Wen] Shandong Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Jinan, Peoples R China; [Wang, Qi; Song, Qipeng] Shandong Sport Univ, Coll Sports & Hlth, Jinan, Peoples R China; [Wang, Qi] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Human Movement Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Liu, Yanhao] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Hlth Sci, Ctr Hlth Ageing & Wellness, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Zhang, Xinmeng; Ran, Wenqi; Li, Junjun] Shandong Sport Univ, Grad Sch, Jinan, Peoples R China; [Song, Qipeng] Shandong Sport Univ, Coll Sports & Hlth, Jinan, Peoples R China								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001716849800001	50	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Cheah, Yong Kang; Kee, Chee Cheong; Lim, Kuang Kuay; Lim, Jia Hui; Teh, Chien Huey; Cheong, Yoon Ling								Health Literacy, Sociodemographic Factors, and Physical Activity: Evidence From Cross-Sectional Quantile Estimations								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2026.2629333				2026	Purpose: Physical inactivity is responsible for various health issues. This study represents an early attempt to examine how health literacy and sociodemographic factors are associated with physical activity across different quantiles of time spent in physical activity. Method: Data obtained from the Malaysian National Health and Morbidity Survey 2019 were analyzed. A quantile regression model was utilized to estimate the differentials in time spent on physical activity across different health literacy levels and sociodemographic groups at the 0.1,0.25, 0.5, 0.75 and 0.9 quantiles of physical activity. Results: Individuals with excellent health literacy spent more time in physical activity at all the quantiles than those with limited health literacy. Men spent less time in physical activity than women when they were inactive but spent more when they allocated a large amount of time to physical activity. The effects of income and education level on time spent in physical activity were negative but only significant at the high quantiles. The differentials attributed to employment status and house locality were bigger among adults who spent more time in physical activity. Single adults spent less time in physical activity than the married across all the quantiles, but the relationship between widowed or divorced status and physical activity was only seen in the top 10% and 25% brackets. Conclusion: Findings of this study ascertain the focus groups based on not only the health literacy and sociodemographic factors, but also the distributional effects of time spent on physical activity for the formulation of intervention measures.		[Cheah, Yong Kang] Univ Utara Malaysia, Sintok, Kedah, Malaysia; [Kee, Chee Cheong; Lim, Kuang Kuay; Teh, Chien Huey; Cheong, Yoon Ling] NIH, Minist Hlth Malaysia, Shah Alam, Malaysia; [Lim, Jia Hui] Taylors Univ, Subang Jaya, Malaysia; [Cheah, Yong Kang] Univ Utara Malaysia, Coll Business, Sch Econ Finance & Banking, Sintok 06010, Kedah, Malaysia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001716411500001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Nicoliello, Mario								Corporate narratives in Olympic and Paralympic sponsorship: hybridity in the Milan-Cortina 2026 winter games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	3			604	622		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2025-0289			JUL 17 2026	2026	PurposeThe article looks at how sponsors of the Milan-Cortina 2026 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games communicate their sponsorship approaches. The analysis is focused on the manner in which sponsors inscribe sustainability, innovation and community interaction into their stories and considers the extent to which these narratives instantiate the new logics of image transfer, institutional legitimacy, capability signalling and commercial platforming.Design/methodology/approachThe research is a latent content analysis that is underpinned by a corpus of official press releases and corporate reports issued by Milan-Cortina 2026's business partners, supplemented by semi-structured interviews with sponsorship managers. A coding structure was used to capture thematic categories based on previous sponsorship theory. The analysis was taken in an interpretive direction to examine how sponsorship logics were framed, with particular focus on the representation of sustainability, innovation, inclusivity and Paralympic participation.FindingsThe findings indicate that sponsorship strategy in Milan-Cortina 2026 has diverse strategies. Image transfer remains central but is always supplemented with legitimacy building through environmental and social responsibility, and capability shown through innovation and technology showcases and commercial activation on consumer and business-to-business routes. Press releases of the Paralympic Games indicate the ways in which diversity and inclusion narratives are leveraged to advance legitimacy and brand differentiation positioning. However, authenticity threats in sustainability communication exist alongside over-alignment with institutional narratives. The research demands integrated strategies able to balance reputational, business and social objectives.Originality/valueThe article contributes to sponsorship research, offering one of the first integrated analyses of partner communications during the 2026 Winter Games. The research takes theoretical discussions one step further to connect sponsorship logics with real corporate communications behaviour, demonstrating how hybridity characterises contemporary Olympic sponsorship. For professionals, the study points out three significant implications: sponsorship must be addressed as a multi-dimensional platform; the narrative of sustainability and inclusion must be authentic in lessening reputational risk and the Paralympics present an under-recognised but compelling ground for identity formation and long-term differentiation of brands.		[Nicoliello, Mario] Univ Brescia, Brescia, Italy; [Nicoliello, Mario] Univ Brescia, Brescia, Italy								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001713247200001	77	Article; Article		
J	Koyama, Takeshi; Irino, Takayuki; Yaguchi, Keito; Sasaki, Shogo; Nagano, Yasuharu								Risk factors for growth-related knee pain in young male Japanese basketball players: results from a web-based parental survey								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	4			288	294		10.1080/00913847.2026.2644839			JUL 4 2026	2026	ObjectivesGrowth-related knee pain is common among young athletes; however, risk factors may differ from those in adults. Understanding modifiable contributors is critical for injury prevention and healthy physical development. This study aimed to identify clinical and training-related factors associated with growth-related knee pain in young male Japanese basketball players.MethodsA total of 600 parents of young male basketball players aged 9-15 years (100 per grade, 4th-9th grades) completed a web-based parental questionnaire. Data collected included age, anthropometrics, leg dominance, playing position, training surface, weekly training volume, and sport specialization. Parents reported whether their child experienced knee pain within the past 12 months and the suspected cause (growth-related pain, contusion, fracture, sprain, or other). Univariate analyses (independent t-tests and chi-square tests) compared players with and without growth-related knee pain. Multivariate logistic regression identified independent risk factors, reported as odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI).ResultsGrowth-related knee pain was reported by 20.6% of participants. Univariate analyses showed that it was significantly associated with older age, larger body size, increased weekly training volume, and high sport specialization, but not with body mass index, leg dominance, playing position, or playing surface. In the multivariate model, increased height (OR =1.04, 95% CI: 1.01-1.08) and high sport specialization (OR =1.77, 95% CI: 1.13-2.77) remained independent predictors.ConclusionsTaller athletes and those with high sport specialization are at an increased risk of growth-related knee pain. Growth monitoring, regulation of training volume, and promoting multisport participation may help reduce injury risk.		[Koyama, Takeshi; Sasaki, Shogo] Tokai Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Dept Competit Sports, 4-1-1 Kitakaname, Hiratsuka, Kanagawa 2591292, Japan; [Irino, Takayuki] Tokai Univ, Sports Promot Ctr, Hiratsuka, Japan; [Yaguchi, Keito] Tokai Univ, Grad Sch Phys Educ, Hiratsuka, Japan; [Nagano, Yasuharu] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Hlth & Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Koyama, Takeshi] Tokai Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Dept Competit Sports, 4-1-1 Kitakaname, Hiratsuka, Kanagawa 2591292, Japan								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001714246500001	32	Article; Article		
J	Junkersfeld, Sarah E.; Braun-Trocchio, Robyn								Virtual Reality and Exercise: Impacts on Affective Responses, Ratings of Perceived Exertion, Attention, and Rowing Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2025.2601884				2026	Physical inactivity is a major health concern leading to obesity and increased health concerns. To increase physical activity (PA), researchers are now considering the impact of affective variables, such as enjoyment and pleasure. Research incorporating virtual reality (VR) with exercise may increase enjoyment because the audiovisual stimulation shifts the attentional focus away from the unpleasant sensation associated with exercise. The affective responses experienced during exercise may influence future behavior, but more research is needed on the impact of VR while exercising. Utilizing a within-subject design, this study investigated the effects of different VR environments on affective responses, ratings of perceived exertion, attention allocation, and performance variables during an aerobic rowing task. A total of 30 participants (20 females, 10 males) completed three different rowing exercise conditions: VR head-mounted displays (VR HMD 360-degree immersive rowing), VR flat-screen display (VR FD), and control (rowing only) conditions. Using a VR HMD resulted in participants reporting significantly higher dissociative attention (p = 0.019) and increased feeling scores (p = 0.030) compared to the control condition. No differences were reported between the conditions on perceived exertion; however, the VR HMD condition plateaued after 15 minutes while the other conditions increased linearly with time. The control condition elicited a higher power output in comparison to VR HMD (p = 0.002). Enjoyment directly following the rowing task was similar across all conditions. This study serves as an initial step in investigating VR as a potential approach for enabling individuals to engage in PA.		[Junkersfeld, Sarah E.; Braun-Trocchio, Robyn] Texas Christian Univ, Ft Worth, TX USA; [Junkersfeld, Sarah E.] Texas Christian Univ, Dept Kinesiol, TCU Box 297730, Ft Worth, TX 76129 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001714008200001	60	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Nagamoto, Hideaki; Okunuki, Takumi; Wakamiya, Kazuki; Maemichi, Toshihiro; Aizawa, Toshimi; Yanai, Toshimasa; Kumai, Tsukasa								Foot function affects pitching motion: players with floating toes show inconsistent pitching motion								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2638941				2026	The purpose of this study was to evaluate how floating toes affect baseball pitching motion. Fifteen young male baseball players pitched from a pitching mound after physical examination, including floating toes, determining if any toes are not in contact with the ground. At least 20 pitches were thrown and the 10-best pitches were selected for the analysis. Images of the ball release point for sagittal and coronal views were captured from the videos recording the pitching motion. The positions of the ball, wrist, and leading foot were measured and the variability of each position over the 10 pitches was expressed as a standard deviation (SD). Each SD between the players with and without floating toes was statistically compared. The prevalence of floating toes on the pivot and plant foot was 47% and 33%, respectively. Those with floating toes on the pivot foot showed significantly greater SD in the antero-posterior position on the ball, wrist, and leading foot at ball release (p = 0.04, 0.02, and 0.01, respectively). Those with floating toes on the plant foot showed a significantly greater SD in the antero-posterior position of the plant foot (p = 0.02). Pitching with floating toes may lead to inconsistent pitching motion.		[Nagamoto, Hideaki] Waseda Univ, Waseda Inst Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Japan; [Nagamoto, Hideaki; Aizawa, Toshimi] Tohoku Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sendai, Japan; [Nagamoto, Hideaki] Network Sports Med & Sci, Specified Nonprofit Org, Sendai, Miyagi, Japan; [Okunuki, Takumi; Wakamiya, Kazuki] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Japan; [Okunuki, Takumi] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Okunuki, Takumi; Maemichi, Toshihiro] Toyo Univ, Inst Life Innovat Studies, Tokyo, Japan; [Maemichi, Toshihiro; Yanai, Toshimasa; Kumai, Tsukasa] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Japan; [Nagamoto, Hideaki] Waseda Univ, Waseda Inst Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Japan; [Nagamoto, Hideaki] Tohoku Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sendai, Japan; [Nagamoto, Hideaki] Network Sports Med & Sci, Specified Nonprofit Org, Sendai, Miyagi, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001710684800001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Trail, Galen; Bang, Hyejin; Kim, Ari								The variation of constraints by level of team interest based on the sport consumer pathway for sport fandom								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-11-2025-0588				2026	PurposeThis study examines the relationships among team interest, attendance intention, and perceived constraints across varying levels of fandom using the consumer pathway for sport fandom (CPSF) as a guiding framework.Design/methodology/approachData were collected from 927 respondents across three US cities with major professional National Basketball Association (NBA) and National Hockey League (NHL) teams using an online survey. Validated single-item measures were employed to assess team interest, attendance intentions, and various external, organizational, and internal constraints.FindingsResults supported the CPSF, affirming that fan loyalty progresses through distinct cognitive and affective stages, which led to increasing attendance intention. Regression analyses revealed that constraints differentially influenced attendance intentions across interest levels: early-stage fans were constrained mainly by lack of knowledge, time and team communication, whereas highly loyal fans were more affected by lack of interest from others.Originality/valueThe findings highlight the importance of segmenting fans by their levels of interest and recognizing the distinct constraints that influence attendance intention across different fan segments, including internal, organizational and external factors. This study offers valuable insights for sport teams and practitioners to develop more targeted strategies that enhance fan engagement and attendance.		[Trail, Galen] Seattle Univ, Dept Mkt, Seattle, WA 98122 USA; [Bang, Hyejin] Florida Int Univ, Dept Counseling Recreat, Biscayne Bay Campus, North Miami, FL USA; [Bang, Hyejin] Florida Int Univ, Sch Psychol, Biscayne Bay Campus, North Miami, FL USA; [Kim, Ari] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Dept Mkt, San Bernardino, CA USA; [Trail, Galen] Seattle Univ, Dept Mkt, Seattle, WA 98122 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001710012500001	53	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Galantine, Paul; Sudlow, Anthony; Del Sordo, Giovanna; Hays, Arnaud; Bertin, Denis; Maso, Freddy; Samozino, Pierre; Peyrot, Nicolas; Duche, Pascale								Sport-specific sprint force-velocity-power profiles in youth athletes: maturity matters								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2641609				2026	This study examined whether different sports (athletics, football, rugby, handball) influence sprint performance and force-velocity-power (F-v-P) profiles according to maturity status. 120 male youth (30 per sport; aged 12.0-16.9 years), matched for chronological age and maturity offset (MO), performed two maximal 30-metre sprints. Sprint performance and F-v-P variables (F0, v0, Pmax, SFV) were calculated using Samozino's method from radar-derived velocity-time data and photocell splits. ANCOVA and regression analyses assessed the effects of sport, maturity, and their interaction. Significant main effects were observed for Sport and MO on all sprint performance variables (p < 0.05 to p < 0.001). Football and rugby players were faster than handball players and track sprinters over 10 metres, with football players fastest at 30 metres. MO & times; Sport interactions showed that football players had smaller sprint gains with maturation. A significant main effect of Sport was revealed for all F-v-P variables except for absolute Pmax (p < 0.01 to p < 0.001). Handball players showed the most force-oriented profile, differing from football and rugby players. Maturation-related improvements in F-v-P variables were similar across sports. These results suggest that while F-v-P development is mainly driven by maturation, sprint performance is more influenced by sport-specific demands.		[Galantine, Paul; Bertin, Denis] Aix Marseille Univ, Dept Sport Sci, CNRS, ISM, Marseille, France; [Galantine, Paul; Sudlow, Anthony; Duche, Pascale] Univ Toulon & Var, Dept Sport Sci, J AP2S, Toulon, France; [Galantine, Paul; Sudlow, Anthony; Hays, Arnaud; Bertin, Denis; Duche, Pascale] Univ Toulon & Var, Aix Marseille Univ, Inst Paoli Calmettes, HIPE Human Lab,CNRS, Marseille, France; [Del Sordo, Giovanna] New Mexico State Univ, Psychol Dept, Las Cruces, NM USA; [Maso, Freddy] Montferrand Sports Assoc, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Samozino, Pierre] Univ Savoie Mont Blanc, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Sci, LIBM, Chambery, France; [Peyrot, Nicolas] Le Mans Univ, Movement Interact Performance, MIP, UR4334, Le Mans, France; [Galantine, Paul] Aix Marseille Univ, Dept Sport Sci, CNRS, ISM, Marseille, France; [Galantine, Paul] Univ Toulon & Var, Dept Sport Sci, J AP2S, Toulon, France; [Galantine, Paul] Univ Toulon & Var, Aix Marseille Univ, Inst Paoli Calmettes, HIPE Human Lab,CNRS, Marseille, France								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001710691100001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tovar, Jorge								The Role of Age in Labor Productivity How Age Matters in Professional Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	4			426	445		10.1177/15270025261427492			MAY 2026	2026	This study analyzes age-productivity relationships in professional football using two comprehensive datasets. The first examines detailed OPTA performance data from the Spanish LaLiga, the English Premier League, and the Colombian Liga & Aacute;guila, creating productivity indices using principal component analysis. The second uses complete career histories from transfermarkt.com for players across Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Colombia, applying Fantasy Premier League scoring systems. Both datasets consistently demonstrate an inverted U-shaped age-productivity curve. Peak performance occurs at 27.8 years in the EPL and 30.1-30.5 years in LaLiga and Colombian leagues, according to OPTA data. The transfermarkt analysis confirms this pattern, showing peak performance at 29.9 years across South American leagues. The findings reveal a systematic shift toward older peak performance ages in modern football, attributed to advances in sports science, nutrition, and training methods. These results offer valuable insights for talent management, contract negotiations, and career planning in professional sports.		[Tovar, Jorge] Univ Andes, Econ Dept, Bogota, Colombia; [Tovar, Jorge] Univ Andes, Econ Dept, Bogota, Colombia								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001708359900001	34	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Lingjun; Deguchi, Tatsuya; Shiokawa, Mitsuhisa; Hamaguchi, Kazuto; Shinya, Masahiro								Kinetics of the lower limb during the rotational movement of the body in osoto-gari: a comparison between black belt and white belt judokas								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2636943				2026	This study aimed to clarify how pivot leg kinetics influence body rotation during the osoto-gari throw by comparing black- and white-belt judokas. Twenty male judokas (10 black and 10 white belts) performed osoto-gari. Three-dimensional coordinate data were acquired using a Mac3D motion analysis system (250 Hz), and the ground reaction force (GRF) of the pivot leg was measured using a force plate (1,000 Hz). During the throwing phase, the angular impulse of the tori was greater in black belts than in white belts (p = 0.043). Black belts exhibited a significantly higher external moment generated from the pivot leg's GRF between 50% and 65% of the throwing motion (p < 0.001). Additionally, the upward GRF, ankle plantar flexion moment, and ankle positive power of the pivot leg were significantly greater in the black belts during 60-84%, 56-88%, and 59-64% of the throwing motion. These findings highlight the critical role of the ankle plantar flexor force in modulating external moment and enhancing whole-body rotation, which is essential for the effective execution of the osoto-gari throw.		[Liu, Lingjun] Shanghai Antidoping Agcy, Shanghai Res Inst Sports Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Deguchi, Tatsuya; Hamaguchi, Kazuto; Shinya, Masahiro] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Humanities & Social Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan; [Shiokawa, Mitsuhisa] Hiroshima Int Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan; [Liu, Lingjun] Shanghai Antidoping Agcy, Shanghai Res Inst Sports Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001707817500001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Shen, Jia; Li, Haijiao; Phantumabamrung, Paak; Qiu, Yuxin; Sun, Weiliang; Xiong, Shengyu; Wang, Yan								Beyond functionality: how perceived value shapes purchase intention for smart wearable fitness devices?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0306				2026	PurposeThis study aims to explore the influence of perceived value on consumers' purchase intention for smart wearable fitness devices (SWDs) users, emphasizing the mediating role of brand identification.Design/methodology/approachDrawing upon the multidimensional framework of perceived value, including functional value, perceived price, emotional value and social value, this research proposes an integrated model to understand how these perspectives affect brand identification and ultimately drive purchase intention. A survey of 405 active users of SWDs in China was conducted, and structural equation modeling was employed to validate the hypothesized relationships.FindingsThe findings reveal that all four dimensions of perceived value significantly and positively influence brand identification and purchase intention; of them, perceived price is the strongest predictor of purchase intention, while social value most strongly influences brand identification. Moreover, brand identification is found to be a significant mediator, reinforcing the psychological bridge between perceived value and purchase intention.Originality/valueThe findings contribute to advancing theoretical understanding of integrating value-based and identification-based perspectives and offer practical guidance for SWDs marketers in refining pricing strategies, enhancing product functionalities and strengthening brand identification through emotional and social value alignment. This study provides a comprehensive framework for understanding consumer behavior in the rapidly evolving SWDs market.		[Shen, Jia; Li, Haijiao; Qiu, Yuxin; Sun, Weiliang; Xiong, Shengyu; Wang, Yan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Phantumabamrung, Paak] Univ Georgia, Athens, GA USA; [Phantumabamrung, Paak] Thammasat Univ, Bangkok, Thailand; [Wang, Yan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001703433700001	78	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hughes, Gerwyn; Nguyen, Hillary; Lyle, Amber; Thoreson, Logan; Martinez, Aryanna								The repeatability and comparison of lower limb biomechanics between suspension, step-off and vertical jump landing tasks								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2635987				2026	Research investigating landing biomechanics has used various tasks to ensure consistent/comparable conditions. This study examined repeatability of three landing tasks (suspension, step-off and vertical jump) and compared lower limb biomechanics between tasks. Twenty recreational athletes performed five trials in each task while 3D motion and ground reaction force (GRF) were recorded. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) showed excellent repeatability in all landing tasks for peak knee kinematics and vertical velocity of the centre of mass (COM) at ground contact (ICCs: 0.92 - 0.98), good repeatability for vertical and posterior GRFs (ICCs: 0.72 - 0.86), but vertical jump landings had poor repeatability for sagittal plane knee kinetics (ICCs = 0.34 for peak extension moment and 0.27 for peak anterior shear force). Repeated measures ANOVA showed vertical and anterior-posterior velocity of the COM at ground contact to be significantly different between landing tasks (p < 0.001). Peak knee flexion angle was less in vertical jump landings compared to suspension (p = 0.003) and step-off (p < 0.001). Peak knee kinetics and GRFs were greater in step-off compared to suspension and vertical jump landings (p < 0.045). These findings suggest different landing types may not be directly comparable and landing task selection should be based on variables of interest and sports-specificity.		[Hughes, Gerwyn; Nguyen, Hillary; Lyle, Amber; Thoreson, Logan; Martinez, Aryanna] Univ San Francisco, Dept Kinesiol, San Francisco, CA 94117 USA; [Hughes, Gerwyn] Univ San Francisco, Dept Kinesiol, San Francisco, CA 94117 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001705315300001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hogberg, Johan; Ekstrom, Erik; Nielsen, Lucas Berggren; Sundberg, Axel; Samuelsson, Kristian; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin								Quadriceps and hamstrings strength recovery during the first year after ACLR: Influence of sex and autograft in 520 patients active in pivoting sports								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101901	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101901			MAR 2026	2026	Objective: To examine quadriceps and hamstrings strength recovery during the first year of rehabilitation after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) and to evaluate whether strength recovery differ according to patient sex and autograft type. Design: Registry study. Setting: Primary care. Patients: 520 patients (56% female) with an average age at ACLR of 23 +/- 5.5 years reconstructed with either hamstring tendon (HT) autograft or patellar tendon (PT) autograft. Main outcome measures: Quadriceps and hamstrings strength recovery was analyzed and compared between sexes and autografts at 4, 8, and 12 months after ACLR. Limb symmetry index (LSI), mass-normalized strength (Nm/ kg), and hamstrings-to-quadriceps strength ratio were used. Alpha level was set at p < 0.05. Results: Differences in mass-normalized quadriceps and hamstrings strength of both limbs were observed between sexes at 4, 8, and 12 months, with males being stronger than females (p < 0.001). Patients with HT autograft had lower LSI and mass-normalized hamstrings strength, whereas patients with PT autograft had lower LSI and mass-normalized quadriceps strength (p < 0.001). Conclusion: Males had greater recovery of mass-normalized hamstrings strength, and higher mass-normalized strength values for quadriceps and hamstrings in both limbs compared to females. HT autograft was associated with lower hamstrings strength and PT autograft was associated with lower quadriceps strength after ACLR.		[Hogberg, Johan; Ekstrom, Erik; Nielsen, Lucas Berggren; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Sportrehab Sports Med Clin, Stampgatan 14, SE-41101 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Hogberg, Johan; Sundberg, Axel; Samuelsson, Kristian; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Sahlgrenska Sports Med Ctr, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Samuelsson, Kristian] Univ Gothenburg, Inst Clin Sci, Sahlgrenska Acad, Dept Orthopaed, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Hogberg, Johan; Sundberg, Axel; Thomee, Roland; Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Univ Gothenburg, Inst Neurosci & Physiol, Sahlgrenska Acad, Dept Hlth & Rehabil,Unit Physiotherapy, Box 455, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Senorski, Eric Hamrin] Swedish Olymp Comm, Stockholm, Sweden; [Sundberg, Axel] Capio Ortho Ctr, Drakegatan 7A, SE-41250 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Samuelsson, Kristian] Sahlgrens Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Molndal, Sweden; [Hogberg, Johan] Univ Gothenburg, Box 455, SE-40530 Gothenburg, Sweden								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001704120900001	49	Article; Article		
J	Qin, Hang; Qian, Shaowen; Zhou, Ying								Comparing The Effects of Singles vs. Doubles High-Intensity On-Court Tennis Training and Regular High-Intensity Interval Training on Aerobic and Anaerobic Performance Adaptations: A Randomized, Parallel-Controlled Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			159	171		10.52082/jssm.2026.159			MAR 2026	2026	Adopting specificity in practice, combined with conditioning, can be an especially effective approach to optimizing training for tennis players. However, little is known about the use of different tennis formats in conditioning drills. The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of singles versus doubles high-intensity interval training (HIIT) tennis training on the aerobic and anaerobic performance of young tennis players, while also evaluating both formats against traditional off-court HIIT training. A randomized parallel controlled study was conducted with 48 male youth tennis players (16.8 +/- 0.8 years). The intervention lasted 6 weeks and was carried out twice a week, with singles and doubles HIIT performed in match-play format without serving, while regular HIIT consisted of running (regHIIT). Measurements were taken at baseline and post-intervention, including the Wingate Anaerobic Test (to determine peak and mean power output and decrement), the Hit and Turn Tennis Test (to estimate maximal oxygen uptake, VO2max), and the 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test (V-IFT). Using ANCOVA, the Group effect was significant for Wingate peak power. Singles-HIIT exceeded doubles-HIIT (Delta = 0.85 W<middle dot>kg(-1), 95% CI 0.63-1.08; p < 0.001, Holm), regHIIT (Delta = 0.80 W<middle dot>kg(-1), 0.58-1.02; p < 0.001), and control (Delta = 1.79 W<middle dot>kg(-1), 1.57-2.02; p < 0.001); doubles-HIIT and regHIIT did not differ (p = 0.620). For mean power, singles-HIIT was higher than doubles-HIIT (Delta = 1.07 W<middle dot>kg(-1), 0.80-1.34; p < 0.001), regHIIT (Delta = 1.00 W<middle dot>kg(-1), 0.74-1.27; p < 0.001), and control (Delta = 1.60 W<middle dot>kg(-1), 1.33-1.87; p < 0.001); both doubles-HIIT and regHIIT exceeded control (Delta = 0.53-0.60 W<middle dot>kg(-1); both p < 0.001). VO2max and VIFT improved similarly across all HIIT formats versus control (VO(2)max Delta = 2.10-2.13 mL<middle dot>kg(-1)<middle dot>min(-1); VIFT Delta = 0.98-1.01 km<middle dot>h(-1); all p < 0.001), with no differences among HIIT formats (all p >= 0.90). In this randomized trial, singles-HIIT produced greater gains in anaerobic performance-showing higher adjusted post-test Wingate peak and mean power-than doubles-HIIT or regHIIT, under the present unmatched-intensity conditions. Aerobic adaptations (VO2max and VIFT) improved similarly across all HIIT formats and were superior to control. Therefore, singles-HIIT may be preferable when the primary goal is to enhance anaerobic power, whereas any of the three formats can be effectively used for aerobic conditioning, depending on logistical and sport-specific considerations. These inferences apply to the present on-court HIIT protocol in youth players and should be generalized cautiously to other sexes, ages, training levels, and court surfaces.		[Qin, Hang; Qian, Shaowen] Wuhan Sports Univ, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Ying] Sichuan Normal Univ, Phys Educ, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Qin, Hang] Wuhan Sports Univ, Wuhan 430079, Peoples R China; [Qin, Hang] Wuhan Sports Univ, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Qin, Hang] Wuhan Sports Univ, Wuhan 430079, Peoples R China								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001654176100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Mao, Yaxu; Chen, Zongwei; Marcos-Frutos, Daniel; Li, Zhaoqian; Huang, Shuheng; Mao, Yong; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								Evaluating Velocity-Based Approaches for Predicting One-Repetition Maximum in The Snatch								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			130	137		10.52082/jssm.2026.130			MAR 2026	2026	This study examined the reliability and accuracy of various velocity-based methods for predicting the snatch one-repetition maximum (1RM), with the purpose of evaluating the potential of movement velocity as an objective indicator for attempt selection in competitive weightlifting. Fourteen competitive adolescent male weightlifters (age: 15.9 +/- 0.9 years; training experience: 5.1 +/- 0.9 years) completed two testing sessions, each involving an incremental loading test with attempts at 50%, 70%, 80%, and 90% of their best snatch record from the past 30 days, followed by load increases until reaching their actual 1RM. Peak velocity (PV) was recorded for all lifts with a linear position transducer. The 1RM in the second session was predicted using the load-PV relationship derived from four loads, combined with either the actual or optimal minimal velocity threshold (MVT) obtained in the first session. Additionally, 1RM was estimated from PV recorded at single loads (50%, 70%, 80%, and 90% 1RM), using the individual %1RM-PV relationship established during the first session. Acceptable between-sessions reliability was observed for the actual 1RM, PV tested at single loads (50-90% 1RM), actual MVT, and optimal MVT (intraclass correlation coefficient = 0.76-0.90, coefficient of variation = 1.82-3.31%). The actual MVT, optimal MVT and individual %1RM-PV relationship using 80% and 90% 1RM yielded acceptable and lower absolute errors (2.6-4.1 kg) compared to individual %1RM-PV relationship using 50% and 70% 1RM (6.2-9.9 kg). However, these methods exhibited proportional bias (p = 0.002-0.018). Furthermore, heteroscedasticity was observed for the actual MVT and 90% 1RM methods (p = 0.022-0.026). These results suggest that recording PV during warm-up sets prior to competition may serve as a complementary variable to support and refine opener selection in weightlifting competitions. However, weightlifting coaches should use this approach with caution, as it may not provide accurate snatch performance predictions for all athletes.		[Mao, Yaxu; Huang, Shuheng; Mao, Yong] Jimei Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Chen, Zongwei; Marcos-Frutos, Daniel; Li, Zhaoqian; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Chen, Zongwei] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Mao, Yong] Jimei Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Xiamen, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001641036500001	35	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Yongbing; Li, Chunlei; Peng, Minghao; Shan, Jixin								Unveiling Optimal Order of Power-Based Resistance and Short Sprint Interval Training in Maximizing Lower-Extremity Physical Fitness Attributes of Judo Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			138	148		10.52082/jssm.2026.138			MAR 2026	2026	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of a 6-week combined power-based resistance training (RT) and short sprint interval training (SSIT), performed in different sequences (SSIT+RT or RT+SSIT), on the lower-body physical fitness of male Judo athletes. Twenty-four young male athletes volunteered for this study and were randomly assigned to one of three groups: SSIT+RT, RT+SSIT, or an active control (CON) group, with eight athletes in each group. The training groups participated in a 6-week intervention, training three times per week during the preparatory phase of annual training cycle. Following the intervention, both the SSIT+RT and RT+SSIT groups showed significant improvements (p = 0.001) in several performance measures including vertical jump (effect size [ES] = 1.58 and 0.85), 20-m linear sprint (ES =-1.22 and-0.53), Agility Ttest (ES =-1.12 and-0.46), maximal strength (ES = 0.15 and 0.21), Specific Judo Fitness Test (SJFT; ES =-0.91 and-0.90), peak power (ES = 1.74 and 1.18), mean power (ES = 0.98 and 1.11), and cardiorespiratory fitness (ES =1.17 and 1.03). In contrast, the CON group did not exhibit any significant changes post-training. Moreover, the SSIT+RT group demonstrated significantly greater improvements compared to the RT+SSIT group in vertical jump (ES = 0.62, p = 0.024), 20-m linear sprint (ES =-0.46, p = 0.031), Agility T-test (ES =-0.34, p = 0.016), and peak power output (ES = 0.79, p = 0.009). Conversely, the RT+SSIT group showed more pronounced strength gains than the SSIT+RT group (ES = 0.14, p = 0.007). In conclusion, it is recommended that incorporating SSIT at the beginning of a training session is more effective for improving jumping ability, sprinting speed, change of direction, and peak power output. Conversely, if the primary goal is to enhance muscular strength, it is advisable to prioritize RT at the start of the session.		[Chen, Yongbing] Dianxi Univ Appl Sci, Dept Publ Basic Course Teaching, Dali, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Li, Chunlei; Peng, Minghao] Chengdu Inst Phys Educ, Sch Wushu, Chengdu 610041, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Shan, Jixin] Chengdu Inst Phys Educ, Affiliated Sport Hosp, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Li, Chunlei] Chengdu Inst Phys Educ, Sch Wushu, Chengdu 610041, Sichuan, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001641036100001	64	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Yang; Luo, Zixuan; Zhou, Zihan; Zhang, Xiaoquan								Physical Activity Modifies the Association between C-Reactive Protein - Triglyceride - Glucose Index (CTI) and Dyslipidemia: Evidence from a 10-Year Chinese Cohort								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			112	129		10.52082/jssm.2026.112			MAR 2026	2026	Dyslipidemia is a major contributor to cardiovascular disease. The C-reactive protein-triglyceride-glucose index (CTI), which reflects insulin resistance and systemic inflammation, has increasingly been recognized as a potential marker for metabolic disturbances. However, its predictive value for incident dyslipidemia remains uncertain, and the role of physical activity in this association requires further clarification. This study prospectively examined the association between CTI and the risk of dyslipidemia, and further assessed whether physical activity modifies this relationship in middle-aged and older Chinese adults. A total of 7,954 participants aged >= 45 years without dyslipidemia at baseline were enrolled, using data from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (2011-2020). Physical activity was assessed using the CHARLS physical activity questionnaire, which captures the frequency and duration of vigorous, moderate, and light activities. Based on the frequency and duration of these activities, participants were categorized into low, moderate, and high physical activity groups. CTI was derived from high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, fasting plasma glucose, and triglyceride levels. Incident dyslipidemia was defined based on abnormal lipid profiles, ongoing lipid-lowering treatment, or a physician's clinical diagnosis. Cox proportional hazards regression with restricted cubic splines was applied to evaluate associations, with stratified analyses by sex, age, and physical activity level. During 10 years of follow-up, 2,011 new cases of dyslipidemia were recorded. Each 1-unit increase in CTI corresponded to approximately a 9% higher risk of dyslipidemia (HR = 1.09, 95% CI: 1.01-1.18). Individuals in the highest CTI quartile had a 15% greater risk compared with those in the lowest quartile (HR = 1.15, 95% CI: 1.01-1.30). Stronger associations were observed in men (HR = 1.20, 95% CI: 1.05-1.36) and adults aged 45-59 years (HR = 1.22, 95% CI: 1.08-1.39), whereas no significant effect was found in women. When stratified by physical activity, a 1-unit CTI increase was linked to about a 10% higher risk in the light and moderate activity groups, and to a 28% higher risk in the vigorous activity group, with risk plateauing at higher CTI levels. Elevated CTI was prospectively associated with an increased risk of dyslipidemia, particularly in men and individuals in midlife. Physical activity appeared to influence this relationship, suggesting that CTI could serve as a practical marker for early risk stratification. These findings underscore the importance of regular exercise in preventing dyslipidemia.		[Wang, Yang; Luo, Zixuan] Tomsk State Univ, Fac Phys Culture, Tomsk, Russia; [Zhou, Zihan] Beijing Normal Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Xiaoquan] Harbin Sport Univ, Sch Sports Sci, Harbin, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Xiaoquan] Harbin Sport Univ, Sch Sports Sci, Harbin, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001642120800001	51	Article; Article		
J	Seifert, Ludovic; Guignard, Brice; Letocart, Adrien; Regaieg, Mohamed Amin; Guimard, Alexandre; Chollet, Didier; Carmigniani, Remi; Pouleau, Nicolas; Charentus, Arnaud; Lepretre, Pierre-Marie								Stroke Rate and Arm Coordination Management in Swimming in A Double Paralympic Triathlete Champion								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			211	220		10.52082/jssm.2026.211			MAR 2026	2026	The 2024 Paris Paralympic triathlon required swimming with and against the current which requested to adapt stroke mechanics. To understand how a Paralympic triathlete champion might adapt his stroke mechanics under varying current conditions, this study aimed to 1) determine the range and optimal stroke rate (SR) and index of coordination (IdC); 2) examine the flexibility of SR, IdC and associated total energy expenditure. The para triathlete performed two front crawl tests: 10 times 25m incremented in swimming speed (S), from which S-SR and S-IdC relationships have been modelled to detect two regimes of functioning and the most effective SR; then, 6 times 50 m at the speed of the 800 m freestyle using 6 different SR conditions: spontaneous SR (SRs), SRs imposed by tempo trainer, SRs+3, SRs+6, SRs-3 and SRs-6 cycles. Total energy expenditure was computed from post-exercise oxygen uptake and blood lactate measurements. In test 1, the highest effective SR equals 44 cycle.min-1, which corresponds to the preferred SR in 800 m freestyle competition. In test 2, the para triathlete struggled to perform the high SR conditions, which was associated to higher total energy expenditure; conversely, the para triathlete naturally decreased SR. It is advised to modulate SR around the preferred SR to optimise efficiency under varying current conditions.		[Seifert, Ludovic; Letocart, Adrien; Regaieg, Mohamed Amin; Chollet, Didier; Charentus, Arnaud; Lepretre, Pierre-Marie] Univ Rouen Normandie, Ctr Etud Transformat Act Phys & Sport CETAPS, UR3832, Rouen, France; [Seifert, Ludovic] Inst Univ France, Paris, France; [Guignard, Brice] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Sci, UR 7424, LIBM, Villeurbanne, France; [Guimard, Alexandre] Univ Orleans, SAPReM, Orleans, France; [Carmigniani, Remi] Inst Polytech Paris, LHSV, ENPC, EDF R&D, Chatou, France; [Pouleau, Nicolas] Federat Francaise de Triathlon, La Plaine St Denis, France; [Charentus, Arnaud] French Inst Sport INSEP, Res Dept, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, Paris, France; [Charentus, Arnaud] Federat Francaise Handisport, Paris, France; [Seifert, Ludovic] Univ Rouen Normandie, CETAPS UR3832, Blvd Sieg Fried,Bldg 36A, F-76000 Rouen, France								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001654831000001	43	Article; Article		
J	Li, Zhaoqian; Chang, Qingzhou; Chen, Zongwei; Yang, Litong; Zhang, Xing; Li, Ruixuan; Zhang, Hongzhen								Monitoring Resistance Training Intensity Using Load-Intercept from The Load-Velocity Relationship Variables: The Case of Deadlift								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			282	290		10.52082/jssm.2026.282			MAR 2026	2026	This study aimed to investigate the feasibility of using deadlift load-velocity (L-V) relationship variables, specifically the loadintercept (L0), to monitor resistance training intensity. Fifteen well-trained male and fifteen well-trained female athletes completed two incremental load tests, recording movement mean velocity (MV) until reaching one repetition maximum (1RM) in two sessions. Although L0 (CV = 4.98%, ICC = 0.974) demonstrated lower between-session reliability than 1RM (CV = 3.48%, ICC = 0.989), its reliability was still at an acceptable level. Furthermore, the 1RM/L0 ratio showed acceptable between-subjects variability (CV = 6.39%). Consequently, L0 could serve as an alternative reference for prescribing training intensity in place of the 1RM. Both the %1RM-MV and %L0-MV relationships were found to be valid for monitoring training intensity in the high-intensity range (absolute error <= 4.05%, at around 80% and 90%1RM) but not in the low-intensity range (absolute error >= 6.31%, from 40% to 70%1RM). Although not a complete replacement for the 1RM, the %L0-MV relationship still offers a practical and convenient method for monitoring deadlift training in high-intensity range (above 80%1RM), particularly in settings where frequent assessments are required.		[Li, Zhaoqian; Zhang, Hongzhen] Shandong Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Jinan, Peoples R China; [Chang, Qingzhou; Yang, Litong] Beijing Sport Univ, Phys Training Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Chen, Zongwei; Zhang, Xing] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Li, Ruixuan] China Univ Geosci Wuhan, Sch Phys Educ, Lab Sports Human Sci, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Hongzhen] Shandong Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Jinan, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001671453800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Zhao, Rui; Xiao, Yi								Lower Limb Muscle Synergies During Table Tennis Forehand Topspin Stroke: A Muscle Synergy Theory-Based Analysis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			303	313		10.52082/jssm.2026.303			MAR 2026	2026	Based on the muscle synergy theory, this study aimed to investigate the lower limb coordination strategies and their individual Surface electromyography (sEMG) signals were recorded from eight ipsilateral lower limb muscles in ten players. Non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) was applied to extract motor module composition and temporal activation patterns. Inter-individual similarity was evaluated using K-means clustering and cosine similarity. The results showed that: (1) Lower limb muscle synergy modules could be classified into three clusters: Cluster 1 gluteus medius/ biceps femoris/ tibialis anterior), and Cluster 3 (lateral gastrocnemius/ soleus). The composition of motor modules exhibited high inter-individual similarity across clusters, with Cluster 2 demonstrating significantly greater consistency than other clusters (p < 0.01); (2) Cluster 2 and Cluster 1 reached peak activation during the early and mid-late forward phases, respectively, while Cluster 3 showed double peak activation during the backswing and backward phases. Considerable inter-individual variability was observed in temporal activation patterns, with Cluster 2 demonstrating significantly lower similarity than Clustween stroke phases, with Cluster 2 greater than Cluster 3 in forphase. The findings indicated that: The lower limb utilized three letes can optimize their performance by precisely adjusting temduring the forward phase.		[Zhao, Rui; Xiao, Yi] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Table Tennis Coll, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Xiao, Yi] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Table Tennis Coll, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001677472000001	29	Article; Article		
J	Kisilewicz, Aleksandra; Smoter, Malgorzata; Trybulski, Robert								Determinants of Cardiovascular Load Variability During Small-Sided Games: Influence of Game Format, Bout Intensity, and Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			272	281		10.52082/jssm.2026.272			MAR 2026	2026	Using a randomized, counter-balanced cross-over design in under-19 male soccer players, this study examined whether withinplayer cardiovascular load variability during small-sided games (SSGs) is more strongly associated with game format (3v3 vs 5v5), intermittent aerobic capacity, or the mean heart-rate intensity achieved across bouts. Sixty players (17-19 years) completed two weeks of SSGs, performing four 3-min bouts per format with 2-min recovery. Heart rate (HR) was recorded continuously. Cardiovascular variability for each format was quantified for each player as the coefficient of variation of bout-level HRmean across the four 3-min bouts (CV% = SD/mean x 100). Intermittent aerobic capacity was assessed using the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 1 (Yo-Yo IR1). Linear mixed-effects modelling examined the independent associations between format, Yo-Yo IR1 performance, mean HR intensity, and CV% was log-transformed to address skewness and improve model residuals. Paired comparisons showed that HRmean was higher in 3v3 than in 5v5 (p < 0.001), whereas between-player variability (CV%) was higher in 5v5 than in 3v3. Specifically, CV% was 1.97 +/- 0.81% in 3v3 versus 2.61 +/- 1.21% in 5v5, while mean HR intensity was 180.9 +/- 2.8 bpm in 3v3 compared with 173.6 +/- 3.6 bpm in 5v5. The mixed model indicated that mean HR intensity was the only significant predictor of cardiovascular variability (beta =-0.027, 95% CI =-0.050 to-0.005, p = 0.019). Neither SSG format (beta = 0.056, p = 0.618) nor Yo-Yo IR1 performance (beta =- 0.00008, p = 0.385) were significant predictors. The fixed-effects structure explained 13.6% of the variance (marginal R2 = 0.136). Within the training conditions studied, higher mean HR intensity was associated with lower bout-to-bout HR variability. However, the fixed effects explained a modest proportion of variance, indicating that additional unmeasured factors likely contribute to cardiovascular load variability.		[Kisilewicz, Aleksandra] Wroclaw Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Med, Wroclaw, Poland; [Smoter, Malgorzata] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Basic Physiotherapy, Gdansk, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Upper Silesian Acad Katowice, Med Dept Wojciech Korfanty, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Kisilewicz, Aleksandra] Wroclaw Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Med, Wroclaw, Poland								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001672757600001	41	Article; Article		
J	D'hoe, Brecht; Kirk, Daniel; Boone, Jan; Colosio, Alessandro								ChatGPT Outperforms Personal Trainers in Answering Common Exercise Training Questions								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			235	261		10.52082/jssm.2026.235			MAR 2026	2026	Since its launch, the chatbot ChatGPT has gained significant popularity and may serve as a valuable resource for evidence-based rate and actionable exercise training information has not been systematically evaluated. This study assessed ChatGPT's proficiency by comparing its responses to those of human personal trainers. Nine currently active level 4 (European Qualification Framework (EQF)) personal trainers (PTs) submitted their most frequently asked exercise training questions along with their own answers to them, and these questions were then posed to ChatGPT (version 3.5). Responses from both sources were evaluated by 18 PTs and 9 topic experts, who rated them on scientific correctness, actionability, and comprehensibility. Scores for each criterion were averaged into an overall score, and group means were compared using permutation tests. ChatGPT outperformed PTs in six of nine questions overall, with higher ratings in scientific correctness (5/9), comprehensibility (6/9), and actionability (5/9). In contrast, none of the responses from PTs were higher than those from ChatGPT for any question or metric. Our results suggest that ChatGPT can be used as a tool to answer questions that are frequently asked to PTs, and that chatbots may be useful for delivering informational support relating to physical exercise.		[D'hoe, Brecht; Boone, Jan] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Watersportlaan 2, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium; [Kirk, Daniel] Kings Coll London, St Thomas Hosp, Dept Twin Res & Genet Epidemiol, Westminster Bridge Rd, London SE1 7EH, England; [Colosio, Alessandro] Univ St Etienne, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Biol, St Etienne, France; [D'hoe, Brecht] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Watersportlaan 2, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001655683000001	24	Article; Article		
J	Thompson, Nathan G.; Hughes, Jonathan D.; Roberts, William M.; De Ste Croix, Mark B. A.								Training load and maturation monitoring: An investigation into the perceived knowledge, confidence, perceptions, and attitudes of UK-based youth academy soccer coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1358	1372		10.1177/17479541261426350			JUN 2026	2026	Within youth soccer academies, sport scientists monitor training load and maturation to support data-informed decisions on player development and injury risk, yet the extent to which coaches integrate this data remains unclear. This study investigated youth academy soccer coaches' perceived knowledge, confidence, attitudes, and perceptions of training load and maturation monitoring. A mixed-methods, cross-sectional online survey was distributed via social media and to professional academy clubs, with 107 coaches responding. The 36-item survey gathered data on coaching backgrounds, perceived knowledge, confidence, attitudes, and perceptions toward monitoring practices. Significance was accepted at a p < 0.05. Perceived knowledge of training load monitoring was significantly influenced by academy category (eta(2) = 0.057), employment status (d = 0.673), and coaching experience (eta(2) = 0.057), with Category 1, full-time, and more experienced coaches (4-6 and >= 7yrs) reporting significantly greater perceived knowledge. For maturation monitoring, employment status (d = 0.569) and coaching experience (eta(2) = 0.091) were significant factors, with full-time and more experienced (4-6 and >= 7yrs) coaches reporting greater perceived knowledge. Greater confidence in training load monitoring was reported by Category 2 (eta(2) = 0.064) and full-time coaches (d = 0.454), while confidence in maturation monitoring was higher among full-time (d = 0.550) and more experienced coaches (eta(2) = 0.093). Coaches valued training load monitoring for injury prevention and maturation monitoring for player development, but faced challenges with education, communication, and resources. Findings highlight the need for focused coach education for monitoring practices, particularly among part-time and less experienced coaches in lower-category academies		[Thompson, Nathan G.] Univ Northampton, Ctr Phys Act & Life Sci, Sch Sport & Publ Hlth, Northampton, England; [Thompson, Nathan G.; De Ste Croix, Mark B. A.] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Educ & Sci, Gloucester, England; [Hughes, Jonathan D.] Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Roberts, William M.] Univ Waikato, Sch Sport & Human Movement, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Thompson, Nathan G.] Univ Northampton, Ctr Phys Act & Life Sci, Sch Sport & Publ Hlth, Northampton, England; [Thompson, Nathan G.] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Educ & Sci, Gloucester, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001703398600001	75	Article; Article		
J	Fujii, Yoshiaki; Alam, Badrul A. K. M.								Case studies on time-trial pacing strategies in cycling: Incorporating the peak power-time curve and acceleration								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2487	2494		10.1177/17479541261425368			AUG 2026	2026	This study examines optimal pacing strategies for cycling time trials by considering both the peak power-time curve and acceleration. We developed a computational model to simulate exertion and speed based on each cyclist's individual power characteristics. Two amateur cyclists (YF and AT) tested the proposed strategies during the Rumoi Hill Climb Time Trial (2.3 km), and their performances were compared with those from previous races using constant-power or free-ride strategies. The optimized two-level pacing reduced simulated finish times by 6.8 s (2.1%) and 8.2 s (2.5%), while actual improvements of 2.6 s (0.8%) and 7.9 s (2.4%) were observed. The model further suggested a potential 2.3% reduction in finish time for the 2025 UCI World Championships Women's Individual Time Trial (31.2 km) using a six-level pacing strategy based on YF's power profile. In addition, the proposed pacing strategy appeared potentially effective even in a mass-start hill climb: a solo effort using a constant-power strategy achieved an 8.8% improvement over the previous year, although this was based on a single case (n = 1). These results indicate that simplified and practical pacing strategies derived from power-time relationships can meaningfully enhance performance, including under real race conditions.		[Fujii, Yoshiaki] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Engn, N13W8, Sapporo, Japan; [Alam, Badrul A. K. M.] Mil Inst Sci & Technol MIST, Dept Petr & Min Engn, Dhaka, Bangladesh; [Fujii, Yoshiaki] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Engn, N13W8, Sapporo, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001702176100001	12	Article; Article		
J	Sluis, Rachel A.; Peace, Keyani; Waters, Allison M.								Volunteers' perceptions of delivering on-field mental health and wellbeing workshops within a youth sports development program								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261427130				2026	Youth sports development programs provide an opportunity to reach young people in diverse communities with mental health and wellbeing programs. However, ensuring that mental health and wellbeing programs can be integrated into sports programs in a sustainable and engaging format for young people can be challenging. Embedding mental health and wellbeing content within on-field sports activities that can be delivered by local volunteer coaches may overcome some of these barriers. This study examined the perceptions of volunteer coaches delivering on-field mental health and wellbeing workshops within a junior rugby league development program and whether more coaching experience influenced coaches' perceptions. Of the 48 volunteer coaches recruited, 28 coaches completed the survey: 12 (43%) with more than 10 years coaching experience; 16 (57%) with less than 10 years coaching experience. Compared to less experienced coaches, those with more coaching experience reported significantly more benefit in terms of coaches learning, enjoyment, and engagement from delivering the on-field workshops and having more confidence in completing some online post-workshop protocols. All coaches, regardless of coaching experience, reported high levels of benefit, acceptability, and credibility of the workshops for players. Assessing volunteer coaches' experience in coaching youth sports may be important for determining their understanding and engagement in delivering mental health and wellbeing programs within youth sports programs.		[Sluis, Rachel A.; Peace, Keyani; Waters, Allison M.] Griffith Univ, Sch Appl Psychol, Gold Coast Campus, Brisbane, Australia; [Sluis, Rachel A.; Peace, Keyani; Waters, Allison M.] Griffith Univ, Ctr Mental Hlth, Brisbane, Australia; [Sluis, Rachel A.] Griffith Univ, Sch Appl Psychol, Gold Coast Campus, Brisbane, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001702184700001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lim, Taehee; Bae, Junsu; Yang, Yunkyung; Jin, Hyeonho; Woo, Seung-Hwan								A multilevel mediation analysis of coaches' life skills coaching, caring climate, and the development and transfer of life skills in student-athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2000	2009		10.1177/17479541261421100			AUG 2026	2026	Sport provides a powerful platform for fostering life skills that can be applied out of sport contexts. Among the factors influencing this process, coaches' life skills coaching and the perceived caring climate play a critical role. This study examined the multilevel relationships among coaches' life skills coaching, student-athletes' perceptions of a caring climate, life skills development, and transfer using a multilevel mediation model. Participants were 431 student-athletes from 28 Korean school sport teams (including a coach from each team). Coaches reported on their life skills coaching practices, while athletes assessed the caring climate, life skills development, and transfer. Multilevel mediation analysis was conducted to capture both within- and between-team effects. Results showed that coaches' life skills coaching positively influenced athletes' perceived caring climate and life skills development. Life skills development significantly predicted transfer and mediated the effect of coaching on transfer. However, the caring climate did not significantly mediate this relationship and showed a negative effect at the group level. These findings emphasize the indirect yet vital role of life skills coaching in promoting transfer and highlight the need for intentional, development-focused coaching strategies. Multilevel modeling offers a more precise understanding of how coaching influences athletes' development within sport environments.		[Lim, Taehee] Yongin Univ, Dept Taekwondo, Yongin, South Korea; [Bae, Junsu] Gyeongkuk Natl Univ, Inst Sport Contents, Andong Si, South Korea; [Yang, Yunkyung] U1 Univ, Sch Life Counseling Ctr, Asan, South Korea; [Jin, Hyeonho] Shinsung Univ, Dept Taekwondo Diplomacy, Dangjin Si, South Korea; [Woo, Seung-Hwan] U1 Univ, Coll Convergence Culture, Yeongdong Gun, South Korea; [Woo, Seung-Hwan] U1 Univ, Coll Convergence Culture, Yeongdong Gun, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001700523800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Murase, Naoki								Lower limb mechanics in kendo <i>men</i> and <i>kote</i> strikes: a within-subject comparison of joint-torque and ground-reaction-force temporal coordination and timing strategies								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2632112				2026	Kendo striking depends on temporal coordination across joints from the ground to the upper limbs, and task demands differ between men and kote. We aimed to compare, within subjects, lowerlimb joint torques and groundreaction forces-and their temporal coordination-between kendo men and kote strikes. Nineteen trained collegiate kendo athletes performed both strikes. Three-dimensional kinematics (250 Hz) and GRF (1000 Hz) were synchronised from movement onset-defined as centre-of-mass speed >= 0.15 m & centerdot;s(-1) -to the instant before impact. Torques (hip, knee, ankle) and GRF (Fy, Fz, Fyz) were normalised to body mass; paired t-tests were used for discrete variables, and point-wise paired t-tests with Benjamini-Hochberg false-discovery-rate control (q < .05) for waveforms. Strike time was shorter in kote than men (0.745 +/- 0.101 s vs. 0.818 +/- 0.085 s). These findings suggest that men strikes rely more on a late, large impulse, whereas kote strikes rely on earlier, proximally initiated torques; therefore, both the magnitude and timing of lower-limb mechanics should be considered when coaching and monitoring kendo performance.		[Murase, Naoki] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Toyota, Japan; [Murase, Naoki] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Toyota, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001702616700001	19	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Loder, Randall T.; Walker, Alyssa L.; Blakemore, Laurel C.								Joint dislocations due to equestrian activity: what can a sports physician anticipate?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	4			281	287		10.1080/00913847.2026.2636506			JUL 4 2026	2026	Background: Horse riding is a common sport, but no study specifically addresses joint dislocations. The purpose of this study is to describe joint dislocations due to equines using a national emergency department (ED) database. Such data can be helpful in injury prevention strategies. Methods: The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database for the years 2000-2023 was used. The NEISS database is a statistically representative sample of injuries seen in EDs across the US giving national estimates. Mechanism of injury was tabulated into groups: 1) did the patient fall from the horse 2) was the patient bucked, thrown, or kicked off of the horse, 3) was there equipment (tack) malfunction, 4) was the patient stepped on by the horse, 5) was the patient struck by/against an object, 6) was the patient kicked by the, 7) and others. Results: There were 625 dislocations which involved the shoulder (289, 46.2%), elbow (95, 15.2%), finger (85, 13.6%), acromioclavicular joint (48, 7.7%), patellofemoral joint (39, 4.8%), hip (22, 3.5%), pubic symphysis (16, 2.6%), and ankle (7, 1.1%). The average age was 41 years; 49.7% were male and 50.3% female. Mechanisms of injury were falling from the horse (54.1%), bucked/thrown off (27.7%), equipment malfunction (7.3%), stepped on by the horse (2.1%), struck by/against an object (1.9%), kicked (0.6%), and others (4.0%). Those with elbow dislocations were the youngest (average 32 years) and pubic symphysis the oldest (average 52 years) (p < 10(-4)). Females had the highest percentage of patellofemoral dislocations (70.2%) and males the highest percentage of pubic symphysis dislocations (92.9%) (p = 0.0018). Conclusion: Although joint dislocations due to equestrian activity are uncommon, the majority occurred in the upper extremity. Male/female involvement is equal, different than the typical female predominance in equestrian activity and overall equestrian related injuries.		[Loder, Randall T.; Walker, Alyssa L.] Indiana Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sch Med, Indianapolis, IN USA; [Blakemore, Laurel C.] George Washington Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Washington, DC USA; [Loder, Randall T.] Indiana Univ, Riley Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sch Med, Phase 1,Suite 1100,705 Riley Hosp Dr, Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001702612200001	33	Article; Article		
J	Dale, Oliver; Francis, John William								Disrupting the set piece: Patterns in defensive lineout strategies in the 2022/23 English championship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261426480				2026	This study aimed to examine defensive lineout strategies during the 2022/23 English Championship rugby union competition, accounting for contextual and tactical factors associated with successful lineout disruption and variation across teams. All regular-season fixtures involving the top six teams were analysed (n = 1876 defended lineouts across 97 matches). Performance indicators were derived from literature and expert consultation, operationally defined, and coded using Hudl SportsCode. Lineout outcomes were examined for associations against pre-, during and post-line phase variables using Chi-square tests and Cramer's V (p < .05). Defensive teams disrupted 18.4% of lineouts, with Coventry Rugby achieving the highest disruption rate (22.4%). Associations were observed for pitch zone (V = .186), formation (V = .091), contesting status (V = 0.164), contesting zone (V = 0.348), intended target (V = 0.164) and lifting/pod structure (V = 0.299). Disruption tended to be greatest when contests occurred in front of the attacking jumper and when two lifters supported the defensive jumper. Defensive effectiveness appeared to be associated with contextual factors and resource allocation. Aggressive contesting positions and optimal lifting support were associated with disruption potential. Findings provide provisional, evidence-informed insights that may assist coaches in refining defensive systems and improving turnover opportunities.		[Dale, Oliver] Ealing Trailfinders Rugby Football Club, London, England; [Dale, Oliver; Francis, John William] Univ Worcester, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Worcester, England; [Francis, John William] Univ Worcester, Worcester, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001704582400001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Moran, Jason; Williams, Mark; Arede, Jorge; Chaabene, Helmi; Cusimano, Kurtis; Granacher, Urs; Negra, Yassine; Behm, David; Hammami, Raouf								Comparing the structured versus unstructured planning of jump training in youth: An eight-week pilot study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261421585				2026	Objectives This study compared the effectiveness of traditionally-planned (TPT) and randomly-planned (RPT) jump training regimens on physical performance metrics in youth academy soccer players. The groups undertook jump training with identical total programme volume and intensity, differing only in the order in which the prescribed training weeks were executed. Design A total of 28 male youth academy soccer players (mean age: 12.6 +/- 0.26 yrs; height: 158.1 +/- 7.24 cm; mass: 43.3 +/- 5.1 kg; maturity offset: 0.81 +/- 0.38 yrs; soccer experience: 4-5 years) were randomly assigned to either TPT or RPT groups, undertaking an eight-week training programme. Methods While the TPT group executed a planned training programme, the RPT group undertook identical training weeks performed in a randomised order with all other training variables being the same between the groups. Results Results indicated significant within-group improvements across all metrics (sprint speed [10 m, 20 m, 30 m], countermovement jump [CMJ], drop jump, and change of direction speed; [dz = 0.37 to 1.15; p = <0.001]) except for the change-of-direction (CoD) test with no ball. No significant between-group differences were found except for in the CMJ, where the TPT group outperformed RPT (dz = 1.15 vs. 0.45, p < 0.001). Conclusion These findings suggest that RPT regimens may yield similar performance outcomes to TPT programmes when matched for jump volume and intensity, though there may be a specificity advantage to using planned schemes. Using more flexible approaches might prove beneficial over time as it appears to encourage greater variability and could benefit coaches who are negatively affected by scheduling difficulties or other time constraints to a programme. This pilot investigation can help coaches and future researchers by serving as a basis for further study of flexible planning in youth populations and can provide preliminary guidance on how coaches can establish effective training programmes without necessarily having to adhere to rigid frameworks.		[Moran, Jason; Cusimano, Kurtis] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Williams, Mark] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Sch Psychol Sport & Sensory Sci, Cambridge, England; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Alto Douro, Portugal; [Chaabene, Helmi] Univ Sfax, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Sfax, Sfax, Tunisia; [Chaabene, Helmi] Otto von Guericke Univ, Univ Hosp Magdeburg, Dept Cardiol & Angiol, Magdeburg, Germany; [Granacher, Urs] Univ Freiburg, Dept Sport & Sport Sci, Exercise & Human Movement Sci, Freiburg, Germany; [Negra, Yassine; Hammami, Raouf] Univ Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Univ Campus, Manouba, Tunisia; [Negra, Yassine] Univ Jendouba, Inst Super Sport & Educ Phys Kef, Lekef, Tunisia; [Behm, David] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Hammami, Raouf] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS LR09SEP01, Tunisian Res Lab Sports Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Moran, Jason] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001701233400001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Alberto Achcar, Jorge; Barili, Emerson; de Oliveira, Ricardo Puziol; Debastiani Neto, Joao								Use of a nested bivariate binomial distribution in presence of covariates applied to a Brazilian soccer league data								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261423454				2026	This study introduces a nested bivariate binomial (BVB) regression model under a Bayesian logistic regression framework to evaluate offensive efficiency in football, with application to the 2023 Brazilian S & eacute;rie A league. The BVB model characterizes offensive performance as a two-stage process: (i) the number of shots on target given total shot attempts, and (ii) the number of goals scored given shots on target. Financial covariates-namely, club investment during the 2023 season and estimated market value-are incorporated at both stages to assess their association with team efficiency. The analysis is based on data from 20 teams across the first 12 rounds of the season, mitigating mid-season variability and transfer effects. Results indicate that higher market value is positively associated with scoring efficiency, whereas recent financial investment does not exhibit a significant effect. These findings constitute a primary investigation into the influence of financial variables on offensive performance in football. By introducing the BVB model within a sports analytics framework, the study provides preliminary evidence of the explanatory and predictive utility of financial indicators-particularly market value-in modeling sporting outcomes.		[Alberto Achcar, Jorge; Barili, Emerson; de Oliveira, Ricardo Puziol; Debastiani Neto, Joao] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Med Sch, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Ricardo Puziol] State Univ Sao Paulo, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Stat, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Debastiani Neto, Joao] Univ Estadual Maringa, Dept Sci, Maringa, Brazil; [Barili, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Med Sch, Sao Paulo, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001700534000001	15	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Chen, Ryan; Wang, Jiaying; Pu, Haozhou; Shi, Chenyu								Social media branding with sportainment: a case study of Burnley FC's creative player announcement videos on X								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0186				2026	PurposeIn this case-based research, we empirically examine whether integrating entertainment, pop culture content into creative advertising on social media can effectively influence various sport consumers' brand awareness and brand attitudes toward the Burnley F.C. team brand.Design/methodology/approachSport consumers' brand awareness and attitude after exposure to different types of videos are compared with pre-exposure using t-test. Adopting a 3 & times; 5 between-subjects experimental design, we then perform a two-way MANOVA to assess the effects of the sport consumer group and video condition on brand awareness and attitude.FindingsBoth sportainment and traditional player announcement videos can enhance consumers' brand awareness and attitudes. Traditional videos yield slightly higher brand awareness overall, while sportainment videos are better at improving sport consumers' attitudes toward a team brand. These effects are also contingent upon specific categorizations of sport consumers.Originality/valueOur research sheds light on how sport teams can leverage sportainment initiatives in designing and implementing innovative marketing practices to construct and polish an idiosyncratic team brand, fulfilling specific financial conditions, needs and long-term sustainability.		[Chen, Ryan] Miami Univ, Dept Sport Leadership & Management, Oxford, OH USA; [Wang, Jiaying] Missouri Southern State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Joplin, MO USA; [Pu, Haozhou] Univ Dayton, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Dayton, OH USA; [Shi, Chenyu] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Shi, Chenyu] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001697850500001	79	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bassa, Eleni; Kakoulidis, Dimitrios; Papavasileiou, Anastasia; Xenofondos, Anthi; Petrakis, Dimitrios; Patikas, Dimitrios A.								Leg stiffness and countermovement jump performance in young male soccer athletes: Insights into maturation effect								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261424474				2026	Determining leg stiffness and countermovement jump (CMJ) performance as soccer athletes mature may provide valuable insights into the mechanisms of CMJ during the developmental period and may help soccer trainers target specific objectives and design more effective training programs. This study aimed to examine in young male soccer athletes of different maturity levels (a) CMJ performance and leg stiffness, and (b) the relationship between CMJ performance and leg stiffness. Fifty-six young soccer athletes characterized as pre- (n = 25), circa- (n = 17), and post-peak height velocity (PHV) (n = 14), according to their maturity offset, performed three CMJs, and, to evaluate leg stiffness, submaximal hops at a frequency of 2 Hz. Circa-PHV athletes did not differ from post-PHV in CMJ performance and leg stiffness values, but both groups presented higher CMJ height and leg stiffness values than pre-PHV athletes. There was a strong correlation between leg stiffness and CMJ performance only in post-PHV soccer athletes. In conclusion, both vertical jump performance and leg stiffness of young male soccer players increase upon entry into adolescence. Furthermore, the fact that the vertical jump performance of more mature players (post-PHV) is related to greater leg stiffness could be attributed to the maturation process. These findings suggest that adapting training strategies to focus on building leg stiffness for fast movements early in the maturation process, while integrating these benefits into slow SSC tasks like the CMJ later in the post-PHV phase, may optimize physical development and performance outcomes for young soccer athletes.		[Bassa, Eleni; Papavasileiou, Anastasia; Patikas, Dimitrios A.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Lab Neuromech, Ippocratus 33, Serres 62500, Greece; [Kakoulidis, Dimitrios; Petrakis, Dimitrios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Lab Evaluat Human Biol Performance, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Papavasileiou, Anastasia; Xenofondos, Anthi] Frederick Univ, Fac Life & Hlth Sci, Sch Hlth Sci, Nicosia, Cyprus; [Bassa, Eleni] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Lab Neuromech, Ippocratus 33, Serres 62500, Greece								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001698809800001	53	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Machado, Victor Reis; Teoldo, Israel								The quality of the defender's decision-making impacts the attacker's technical performance in soccer 1 vs. 1 situation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261425239				2026	Decision-making (DM) is paramount to the development of sports performance. A possibility of using DM in a soccer training context is to stablish and manipulate the quality of opposition. The aim of this study was to investigate whether differences in the defender's DM quality affect the attacker's technical performance during 1 vs. 1 situation. The sample comprised 92 Brazilian soccer players from the Under-13 and Under-15 categories. They were assessed with the TacticUP (R) test and were organized according to the results in offensive decision-making (ODM) and defensive decision-making (DDM). The small-sided and conditioned games were manipulated into four qualities of opponents: I) high-quality ODM vs. high-quality DDM, II) high-quality ODM vs. low-quality DDM, III) low-quality ODM vs. high-quality DDM, and IV) low-quality ODM vs. low-quality DDM. The results indicated that players with a high-quality ODM perform better technically in shots and dribbles when facing players with a low-quality DDM. Additionally, the high-quality ODM players had more ball contacts and ball possession time when facing high-quality DDM players, indicating more difficulty overcoming those opponents. It is concluded that defensive players with higher DM indexes successfully keep attackers far from their goalposts. In comparison, defensive players with lower DM indexes are more easily overcome and have more shots toward their goalposts.		[Machado, Victor Reis; Teoldo, Israel] Univ Fed Vicosa, Ctr Res & Studies Soccer NUPEF, Vicosa, Brazil; [Machado, Victor Reis] Univ Fed Vicosa, Ctr Res & Studies Soccer, Ave PH Rolfs SN,Univ Campus Ctr, Vicosa, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001698791100001	78	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Choi, Junwoo; Byon, Kevin K.; Pedersen, Paul M.								The impact of banner ads on consumer attitude and purchase intention toward golf products: using product classification and contextual congruity								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0199				2026	PurposeThis study investigates the impact of banner ads for golf products by examining how product classification, consumer involvement level and contextual congruity interact to influence consumer attitude and purchase intention. Grounded in the elaboration likelihood model (ELM) and the theory of planned behavior (TPB), the research aims to understand how these psychological variables affect core golfers' attitude and intention toward golf products.Design/methodology/approachA 2 & times; 2 & times; 2 factorial experimental design was employed with core golfers, defined as individuals playing at least eight rounds per year. The experiment tested the effects of three variables: product value (utilitarian vs. hedonic), involvement level (high vs. low) and contextual congruity (high vs. low). Participants were exposed to banner ads embedded within either congruent or incongruent website content, and their attitude and purchase intention were measured.FindingsResults showed banner ads are most effective when they promote high-involvement, utilitarian products in highly congruent website contexts. A significant three-way interaction effect on attitude was identified, and attitude strongly predicted purchase intention. The study confirmed that central route processing leads to more favorable advertising outcomes when congruity, involvement and product type align.Originality/valueThis research extends the literature on digital sport advertising by identifying interaction effects among cognitive and contextual variables. It also refines the application of ELM in banner ads, informing marketers targeting core golfers.		[Choi, Junwoo] Viterbo Univ, La Crosse, WI USA; [Byon, Kevin K.] Southern Methodist Univ, Simmons Sch Educ & Human Dev, Dept Appl Physiol & Sport Management, Dallas, TX 75205 USA; [Pedersen, Paul M.] Indiana Univ, Sch Publ Hlth Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN USA; [Byon, Kevin K.] Southern Methodist Univ, Simmons Sch Educ & Human Dev, Dept Appl Physiol & Sport Management, Dallas, TX 75205 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001696849200001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Consonni, Lorenzo; Pollard, Benjamin; Izeta, Federico; Turner, Anthony								A comparison of match demands using ball-in-play versus whole-match data in the 2023 super rugby Américas champion team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261424584				2026	Rugby union is a high-intensity, intermittent sport with varying positional demands. Whole-match (WM) global navigation satellite system (GNSS) analysis may underestimate peak physical outputs. This study compared match demands in Super Rugby Am & eacute;ricas using ball-in-play (BiP) versus WM data to better inform conditioning strategies, with positional demands considered as secondary context. GNSS data were collected from 35 professional players of the 2023 Super Rugby Am & eacute;ricas champion team across 14 matches. Metrics included total distance (TD), high-speed running (HSR), accelerations (ACC), and high-metabolic-load distance (HMLD), reported in absolute and relative terms. Linear mixed models assessed differences between BiP and WM while accounting for positional group (forwards and backs). BiP phases exhibited significantly greater relative demands than WM. TD & centerdot;min(-1) was similar to 2.5 times higher during BiP (114.9 +/- 7.7 vs 47.5 +/- 4.1 m & centerdot;min(-1); p < 0.001). Similar patterns were observed for ACC & centerdot;min(-1) (0.8 +/- 0.1 vs 0.2 +/- 0.03 accelerations & centerdot;min(-1)), HSR & centerdot;min(-1) (15.4 +/- 2.6 vs 3.7 +/- 0.5 m & centerdot;min(-1)), and HMLD & centerdot;min(-1) (27.9 +/- 3.7 vs 7.0 +/- 0.8 m & centerdot;min(-1); all p < 0.001). Within this BiP-WM comparison, backs demonstrated greater TD, ACC, HSR, and HMLD than forwards (p < 0.001). Overall, BiP analysis better reflects match demands and highlights the importance of aligning conditioning programmes with BiP-derived per-minute intensity profiles. Positional differences may guide emphasis within this BiP-focused framework, rather than distinct exercise selection, to better prepare players for the most demanding phases of match play.		[Consonni, Lorenzo; Izeta, Federico] Union Rugby Uruguay, Dept Athlet Performance, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Consonni, Lorenzo] Setanta Coll, Dept Educ, Limerick, Ireland; [Pollard, Benjamin] World Rugby, Dept Athlet Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ London, London Sports Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Consonni, Lorenzo] Union Rugby Uruguay, Dept Athlet Performance, Montevideo, Uruguay								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001698345200001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Yeom, Seungjae; Jeong, Boseok; Lee, Jinguk; Hyung, Su-Kyung; Kim, Hoon; Chang, Eunwook; Kim, Kyung-Min								Validation of a markerless motion capture system (OpenCap) for jump-landing kinematic in the landing error scoring system (LESS)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261425059				2026	OpenCap, a markerless motion capture system, offers a practical alternative for movement assessment; however, additional validation is needed to confirm its applicability. This study evaluated how closely lower extremity kinematics measured by OpenCap matched those obtained from a conventional marker-based system during jump-landing tasks. We also examined whether OpenCap's accuracy varied between normal and simulated abnormal jump-landing conditions. Kinematic data were simultaneously recorded by both systems while 21 male participants performed jump-landing tasks under both normal and simulated abnormal conditions. Waveform similarity was assessed using the coefficient of multiple correlation (CMC), and error was quantified using root mean square error (RMSE). Wilcoxon signed-rank tests with Bonferroni correction were used to compare RMSE across conditions. OpenCap showed moderate to strong waveform similarity with the marker-based system during jump-landing tasks, with a grand mean CMC of 0.78 across all joint angles and conditions. Agreement was highest in the sagittal plane (0.84-0.98) and lowest in the transverse plane (0.51-0.60). A grand mean RMSE of 6.62 degrees was observed across all joint angles and movement conditions. Wilcoxon signed-rank tests revealed significant RMSE differences only for ankle flexion (p < 0.001) and inversion (p < 0.001) under the simulated impaired postural control and restricted ankle motion conditions, respectively. These findings suggest the potential of OpenCap as a practical tool for assessing lower extremity kinematics in clinical and sports settings, especially for sagittal plane movements. While certain limitations remain in capturing movement in the transverse and frontal planes, continued algorithmic advancement may enhance its accuracy and broaden its applicability.		[Yeom, Seungjae; Jeong, Boseok; Lee, Jinguk; Hyung, Su-Kyung; Kim, Kyung-Min] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Kim, Hoon] Soonchunhyang Univ, Dept Sports Med, Asan, South Korea; [Kim, Hoon] Soonchunhyang Univ, Dept Software Convergence, Asan, South Korea; [Chang, Eunwook] Inha Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 100 Inha Ro, Incheon, South Korea; [Chang, Eunwook] Inha Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 100 Inha Ro, Incheon, South Korea; [Kim, Kyung-Min] Sungkyunkwan Univ SKKU, Dept Sport Sci, 2066 Seobu Ro, Suwon, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001698296600001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ladru, B. J.; Tak, I.; Kortekaas, B.; Gijssel, M.; Kerkhoffs, G.; Langhout, R.								The role of lower body kinematics in optimising trunk dynamics and ball speed during the field hockey drag-flick								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2631507				2026	Timing and coordination of body kinematics are crucial for drag-flick performance in field hockey. This study aimed to clarify how coordination between the lower limbs and trunk contributes to effective energy transfer by (1) comparing lower body and trunk kinematic patterns between senior and junior national-level players, (2) examining whether peak kinematic values and keypoints occur in temporal synchrony, and (3) determining whether lower body peak kinematics predict trunk deceleration and ball speed. Kinematic data and ball speed were collected from 57 players (9 senior, 48 junior) from the Royal Dutch Hockey Federation using a 3D motion capture suit (240 Hz) and radar gun. Senior players achieved significantly higher ball speeds and shorter flick phases, associated with more synchronised timing of peak movements and keypoints. Specifically, left foot touchdown (LFT) aligned with trunk acceleration onset, while onset of right wrist flexion (ORWF) corresponded with trunk deceleration onset. The lead leg acted as a braking mechanism converting linear to angular momentum of the trunk, while the trail leg contributed to propulsion and trunk deceleration. Junior players showed delayed peak kinematics and reduced synchronisation. These findings highlight the role of lower limb and trunk mechanics in optimising drag-flick performance through targeted training.		[Ladru, B. J.; Gijssel, M.] Jheronimus Acad Data Sci, Kinet Anal, sHertogenbosch, Netherlands; [Tak, I.; Kerkhoffs, G.; Langhout, R.] Fysiotherapie Utrecht Oost, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Tak, I.; Kerkhoffs, G.; Langhout, R.] Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Tak, I.] Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, VUmc AMC IOC Res Ctr Excellence, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kortekaas, B.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kerkhoffs, G.] Univ Amsterdam, Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Langhout, R.] Fysiotherapie Dukenburg, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Ladru, B. J.] Jheronimus Acad Data Sci, Kinet Anal, sHertogenbosch, Netherlands								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001698476600001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kim, Donghyun; Lee, Hyun-Woo; Cho, Heetae								Endorsers and message types in sports advertising: cultural influences on consumer attitudes and intentions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-05-2025-0243				2026	PurposeThis study aims to examine how endorser type (athlete vs. entertainer), message type (expertise-based vs. relation-based) and cultural orientation (Western individualism vs. Eastern collectivism) shape attitudes toward endorsers and advertisements and how these attitudes influence purchase intention for sports drinks.Design/methodology/approachA 2 & times; 2 & times; 2 experimental design was conducted with 293 participants from the United States and South Korea.FindingsBased on source credibility and construal level theories, the results show that endorser type and message type significantly affect attitudes and purchase intention, with effects moderated by cultural orientation. Athletes paired with expertise-based messages were more persuasive in Western contexts, whereas relation-based messages were more effective in Eastern contexts.Originality/valueThis study highlights the need for culturally aligned endorsement strategies that account for consumers' psychological and cultural orientations. It contributes to sports marketing by offering practical guidance for designing culturally resonant advertising campaigns.		[Kim, Donghyun; Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, College Stn, TX USA; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001695160900001	73	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Elsworthy, Nathan; Leicht, Anthony; Guy, Joshua H.; Vaquera, Alejandro; Scanlan, Aaron T.								Perceptual Well-Being and Sleep Patterns Are Negatively Impacted Surrounding Games Irrespective of Schedule Among Elite Basketball Referees: An Exploratory, Observational Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2025.2608366				2026	Evaluate changes in well-being and sleep surrounding regular and condensed game schedules among elite basketball referees. Eleven referees officiating in the Australian Women's National Basketball League competition completed a daily questionnaire to quantify well-being (sleep quality, mood, stress fatigue, muscle soreness, and total well-being z-score) and sleep patterns (bedtime, waketime, and time in bed) from the previous night throughout the 2020 season. Linear mixed models and Hedges g(av) were used to assess differences in well-being and sleep patterns before and after games during regular (one game), condensed schedules (two game on consecutive days), and compared to baseline (no game). During regular schedules, greater fatigue (P = .010, small) and poorer well-being z-score (P = .047, small) were observed on post-game mornings compared to pre-game mornings. Moreover, pre-game bedtime was earlier compared to baseline (P = .019, small), and post-game (P <.001, moderate) nights. During condensed schedules, fatigue was improved on mornings before the first game (pre-game1) compared to baseline days (P = .029, moderate) but worsened on mornings following the second game (post-game2) than pre-game1 (P < .001, large) and on post-game2 than baseline days (P = .020, moderate). Well-being z-score was reduced on post-game2 compared to pre-game1 (P = .040, moderate). Referees experienced poorer well-being and greater fatigue on mornings following games, with increases in fatigue accentuated during condensed schedules. Sleep patterns were subtly impacted during regular schedules only. Adequate recovery strategies and sleep opportunities should be planned for referees surrounding games to maintain their well-being.		[Elsworthy, Nathan; Guy, Joshua H.; Scanlan, Aaron T.] Cent Queensland Univ, Noosaville, Australia; [Leicht, Anthony] James Cook Univ, Townsville, Australia; [Guy, Joshua H.] Cairns Taipans Basketball Club, Cairns, Australia; [Vaquera, Alejandro] Univ Leon, Leon, Spain; [Elsworthy, Nathan] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, 90-92 Sydney St, Mackay, Qld 4740, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001696995000001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bright, Thomas E.; Lake, Jason; Handford, Matthew J.; Theis, Nicola; Ellis, Matthew; Mundy, Peter; Hughes, Jonathan D.								Effects of handheld dumbbell load on force-time characteristics during countermovement jumps with accentuated eccentric loading in youth athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2623454				2026	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of handheld dumbbell load on force-time characteristics during countermovement jumps with accentuated eccentric loading (CMJAEL). Nineteen youth athletes (9 males and 10 females; age 15 +/- 2 years; stature 1.66 +/- 0.09 m; body mass 54.8 +/- 8.4 kg) performed bodyweight CMJs (CMJBW) followed by CMJAEL conditions at 20% (CMJAEL20) and 30% (CMJAEL30) of body mass. Vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) data were analysed using a combined forward and backward integration method to account for changes in system mass. Jump height increased in both CMJAEL conditions compared with CMJBW, with the greatest improvement during CMJAEL20. Propulsion time increased with load, while propulsion mean vGRF decreased, suggesting participants produced force over a longer duration to attain a greater jump height. Propulsion mean velocity and power increased under CMJAEL20 but changes were uncertain for CMJAEL30. Braking responses were inconsistent, as higher braking vGRF were not accompanied by meaningful changes in braking velocity or power. These findings suggest CMJAEL can acutely increase jump height; however, associated changes in force-time characteristics, particularly phase durations and velocities, should be considered, as they provide insight into how jump performance is achieved in response to AEL.		[Bright, Thomas E.; Hughes, Jonathan D.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Bright, Thomas E.; Ellis, Matthew] Plymouth Marjon Univ, Dept Sport Business & Media, Plymouth, England; [Lake, Jason] Univ Chichester, Inst Sport Nursing & Allied Hlth, Chichester, England; [Handford, Matthew J.] U7 Performance, Exeter, England; [Theis, Nicola] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Mundy, Peter] Hawkin Dynam Inc, Westbrook, ME USA; [Bright, Thomas E.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Bright, Thomas E.] Plymouth Marjon Univ, Dept Sport Business & Media, Plymouth, England								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001695907600001	60	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zimmerman, Corinne T.; Myers, Nicholas D.; Vealey, Robin S.; Pacewicz, Christine E.; Driska, Andrew P.; Kim, Jeemin								Investigation of initial validity evidence of responses to the coach precompetitive communication questionnaire-helpfulness								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2100	2111		10.1177/17479541251414083			AUG 2026	2026	In the current study pregame speech is defined as communication used by coaches prior to competition that can be characterized by four factors: one general factor (pregame speech) and three grouping factors (tactical content, emotional content, and delivery). The Coach Precompetitive Communication Questionnaire-Helpfulness (CPCQ-H) was developed to assess the extent to which collegiate athletes find the four factors of pregame speech helpful. The purpose of this study was to investigate initial evidence of validity for the responses to the CPCQ-H under an exploratory bifactor approach specifically to explore the existence of one general factor and three grouping factors measured by CPCQ-H items. Participants were 269 NCAA student-athletes involved in interactive team sports who were asked to complete a cross-sectional survey. The survey included a demographic questionnaire and the CPCQ-H. Results of an exploratory bifactor analysis found evidence to support the retention of a four-factor model, with a general factor of pregame speech and three grouping factors. Observed responses indicated meaningful factor loadings (e.g., lambda >= .30, p < .05), providing evidence for the validity of CPCQ-H responses. The findings of this study contribute to the psychometric and practical understanding of pregame speech.		[Zimmerman, Corinne T.; Myers, Nicholas D.; Driska, Andrew P.; Kim, Jeemin] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Vealey, Robin S.; Pacewicz, Christine E.] Miami Univ, Dept Sport Leadership & Management, Oxford, OH USA; [Zimmerman, Corinne T.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001696970500001	60	Article; Article		
J	Loureiro, Manuel; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Ramos, Ana; Coutinho, Patricia; Ribeiro, Joao; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Mesquita, Isabel; Afonso, Jose								How Could Meta-Assessment Enhance the Coaching-Learning Process? A Longitudinal Study in a Youth Female Volleyball Team								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2025.2597396				2026	The importance of adaptable assessment practices is widely acknowledged, but there is scarce research on how meta-assessment procedures may be applied in educational settings. This research delves into real-life meta-assessment processes within a learning and training context, aiming to provide insights into the implementation, adaptation, barriers, and opportunities of assessment procedures in 24 female minivolleyball players. Over a near-complete volleyball season, the cohort was randomized into an experimental group where planning could be changed daily, and a contrast group where planning could be changed monthly. Reflexive Diary and Field Notes, from practices contributed to analyze the assessment process and how it evolved in time. The conjugated information from daily, subjective assessments was complemented with weekly Game Performance Assessment Instrument (GPAI) assessments. Every month, based on how the groups evolved, the GPAI variables, categories, and criteria were adapted to better suit the evolving pedagogical needs. This iterative meta-assessment process yielded five distinct versions of the GPAI throughout the season, reflecting the evolving needs and progress of the players. More than technical refinement, this process represents an innovative and context-responsive approach to assessment design. It highlights the novelty of applying meta-assessment in a real-world sport setting, where adaptability and responsiveness are crucial. The meta-assessment process played a central role in informing flexible and individualized planning, allowing pedagogical decisions to be continuously aligned with emerging learning insights. Standardized assessment allows greater comparability and is prevalent in scientific research, but unstandardized, dynamically evolving assessment may better suit the needs of specific teams and players.		[Loureiro, Manuel; Ramos, Ana; Coutinho, Patricia; Ribeiro, Joao; Mesquita, Isabel; Afonso, Jose] Univ Porto FADEUP, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Maia, Maia, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana Do Castelo, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Guarda, Portugal; [Loureiro, Manuel] Univ Porto FADEUP, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Rua Dr Placido Costa 91, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001694710300001	67	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Caudet Sanchez, Patricia; Baiget, Ernest; Batalla Gavalda, Abraham; Colomar, Joshua; Corbi, Francisco								Acute effects of the FIFA 11+warm up protocol on distal mechanical and physiological tissue properties and performance in male and female soccer players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE											10.1080/00913847.2026.2631370				2026	Objective: Soccer is one of the sports with the highest number of injuries in both sexes with a prevalence of 13% around the ankle-foot area. Various strategies have been proposed to prevent injuries like FIFA 11+ warm-up. Its reliability has been questioned due to the diversity of results obtained depending on the movement pattern studied and the body region analyzed. Few studies have analyzed its acute effects on distal structures, such as plantar soft tissue properties, local perfusion or temperature. The objective of this study was to determine the acute effects of performing the FIFA 11+ on mechanical and physiological properties in ankle-foot regions. Method: The sample included 120 amateur men and women soccer players. Various mechanical properties of the muscle and tendon such as oxygen saturation in the muscle, skin temperature, range of motion of the ankle and maximum isometric force of the toes were analyzed, before and after performing the FIFA 11 +. Results: indicate the absence of significant differences in any of the variables analyzed, except for the mechanical response of the plantar fascia (p < 0.0014). Conclusion: FIFA 11+ may not provide a sufficiently strong local stimulus to generate mechanical and metabolic responses in the different structures of the foot and ankle, even though it remains an established long-term injury-prevention program. Other warm-up strategies to enhance its effects may consider incorporating.		[Caudet Sanchez, Patricia] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Complejo Caparrella S-N, Lleida 25192, Spain; [Baiget, Ernest] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Batalla Gavalda, Abraham] Rovira I Virgili Univ, EUSES Sch Univ Hlth & Sport, Tarragona, Spain; [Batalla Gavalda, Abraham] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ INEFC, Sport Sci Grp Res, Barcelona, Spain; [Batalla Gavalda, Abraham] Univ Jaume 1, Fac Humanities & Social Sci, Dept Educ & Specif Didact, Castellon De La Plana, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia, Sports & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Vic, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia, Sports Performance Anal Res Grp SPARG, Vic, Spain; [Corbi, Francisco] Univ Barcelona, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Clin Sci, Barcelona, Spain; [Caudet Sanchez, Patricia] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Complejo Caparrella S-N, Lleida 25192, Spain								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001695416000001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hislen, Scott; English, Cedric; Kavaliauskas, Mykolas; Ferrier, Brendon								An exploration into coaches' perceptions of the technical, physical and psychological requirements for successful developing pace bowlers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2112	2122		10.1177/17479541261421105			AUG 2026	2026	The purpose of this study was to identify coaches' perceptions of the technical, physical and psychological requirements for successfully developing pace bowlers. Six international male pace bowling coaches were interviewed with their responses analysed using a reflexive thematic analysis approach. Thematic analysis revealed three key themes: 1) no one size fits all, 2) the catalysts for developing pace bowlers and 3) identifying and developing talent. Additionally, coaches identified bowling action, particularly the balance between control and bowling fast, and the role of the strength and conditioning coach as being important to the progression of developing pace bowlers. The findings highlight the need for a collaborative approach between coaches, strength and conditioning coaches and sports psychologists which is vital when supporting the development of young pace bowlers. Further studies are needed to develop a more standardised approach to the criteria used for identifying and developing pace bowlers.		[Hislen, Scott; English, Cedric; Ferrier, Brendon] Edinburgh Napier Univ, Sch Appl Sci, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Kavaliauskas, Mykolas] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Div Sport Exercise & Hlth, Lanarkshire Campus,Stephenson Pl,Hamilton Int Tech, Paisley, Scotland; [Hislen, Scott] Edinburgh Napier Univ, Sch Appl Sci, Edinburgh, Scotland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001695625000001	48	Article; Article		
J	Kowalik, Michal; Pawlowski, Tim								Projection Bias in Individual Football Ticket Purchases								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	3			354	389		10.1177/15270025261422471			APR 2026	2026	By merging fine-grained association football (soccer) ticket data with detailed weather information, we present a novel setting to test projection bias in the field. Since football fans must verify their identity for both ticket purchase and stadium entry, we are able to explore the effect of interest at the individual level. Overall, our findings suggest that intertemporal decision-making by sports consumers is indeed systematically biased. Moreover, we offer some initial evidence in line with the literature on hedonic consumption, since decision-making by women seems to be stronger affected by weather compared to men.		[Kowalik, Michal; Pawlowski, Tim] Univ Tubingen, Res Grp Sport Econ Sport Management & Media Res, Tubingen, Germany; [Kowalik, Michal] Univ Tubingen, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001695531900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Farrell III, John W.; Renshaw, Alex J.; Garcia, Madeline R.; Johnson, William R.; Cheever, Kelly M.; Valles, Damian								Use of principal component analysis for identification of differences in countermovement jump metrics between positions in collegiate baseball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261421108				2026	The countermovement jump (CMJ) has previously been implemented in collegiate baseball for assessing lower body neuromuscular characteristics and monitoring the accumulation of fatigue. However, it remains unclear as to which metrics are the most relevant for each position. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate differences in CMJ metrics between positions in a cohort of collegiate baseball players using dimensional reduction techniques. Forty-five collegiate baseball players participated in the current investigation. All athletes performed two maximal effort CMJs on a dual uniaxial force plate system. A one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to detect statistically significant differences (p < 0.05) in CMJ metrics between positions, with participants classified as Catchers (CATs), Infielders (IFs), Outfielders (OFs), and Pitchers (PITs). Principal component analysis (PCA) and linear (LDA) and quadratic discriminant analysis (QDA) were used to assist in identification of most relevant CMJ metrics for each position. ANOVA detected significant differences between PITs and IFs for eccentric mean power (p = 0.048) and eccentric peak velocity (p = 0.040). PCA revealed that contraction time, impulse, and the duration of the braking, eccentric, and concentric phases had the highest contributions to PC1 and PC2. LDA and QDA identified metrics associated with the eccentric phase as explaining most of the variance between positions. The differences observed in eccentric CMJ metrics for PITs may be due to the greater eccentric loading that is experienced by the lower limbs during the different phases of a pitch. Future investigations are need for determine sensitivity of eccentric metrics of the CMJ to varying levels of fatigue.		[Farrell III, John W.; Renshaw, Alex J.; Garcia, Madeline R.] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Clinicial Biomech & Exercise Physiol Lab, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Johnson, William R.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, Australia; [Cheever, Kelly M.] Univ Texas San Antonio, Dept Kinesiol, Appl Biomech Res Lab, San Antonio, TX USA; [Valles, Damian] Texas State Univ, Ingram Sch Engn, San Marcos, TX USA; [Farrell III, John W.] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Clinicial Biomech & Exercise Physiol Lab, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001696375700001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Batarfi, Meshael; Yusuf, Nadia								The Structural Transformation of Leisure and Modernization of Sports Consumption in Developing Economies								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	3			333	353		10.1177/15270025261422470			APR 2026	2026	This paper examines the socioeconomic drivers behind the structural transformation of leisure in developing economies, emphasizing the modernization of sports consumption. Using a two-way fixed-effects panel-data model on 19 upper-middle-income countries (2008-2023), we analyze disaggregated imports of two bundles: a 'Modern' wellness bundle (individual fitness equipment and lifestyle apparel) and a 'Traditional' sports bundle (team and outdoor equipment). The findings reveal that rising per capita income is the primary factor driving this shift, with the income elasticity of demand for the Modern bundle (1.2) exceeding that of the Traditional bundle (0.84). Urbanization shows a consistent, yet counterintuitive, negative relationship with sports goods consumption. As income grows, consumer preferences shift from collective, outdoor sports to individualized, wellness-oriented activities. This transformation presents significant implications for public health policy, particularly in mitigating emerging lifestyle inequalities through targeted interventions, and for global firms aiming to engage a new generation of consumers in developing economies.		[Batarfi, Meshael] Univ Business & Technol, Coll Business Adm, Sports Management Program, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; [Yusuf, Nadia] King Abdulaziz Univ, Fac Econ & Adm, Dept Econ, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia; [Yusuf, Nadia] King Abdulaziz Univ, Fac Econ & Adm, Dept Econ, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001694548300001	61	Article; Article		
J	Thompson, Isobel M.; Audot, Dorian A. G.; Hudson, Dominic; Warner, Martin B.; Logan, Oliver; Banks, Joseph								The effects of skill practice on underwater fly kick development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261418931				2026	Underwater fly kick is a key skill in swimming, contributing to increased performance in competition. Although its importance is recognised, the development of key aspects of underwater fly kick is not well explored or understood. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of two commonly used interventions on the underwater fly kick performance of trained swimmers. Eleven skilled male athletes (FINA point score 679 +/- 57) performed maximal underwater fly kick efforts before and after vertical kicking and a resisted training intervention. Ten reflective markers were placed on key bony landmarks, and a six-camera Qualisys motion capture system (100 Hz) recorded kinematics in a calibrated three-dimensional volume 6.9 metres in length. The vertical kicking intervention did not improve horizontal swimming velocity, but athletes demonstrated more symmetrical kicking techniques. Resisted training elicited a significant increase in horizontal swimming velocity following the intervention, without clear causational changes in technique. Therefore, this was potentially due to post-activation performance enhancement effects. While both interventions elicited changes such as increased knee flexion and reduced kick symmetry, these may reflect exploratory learning processes, allowing athletes to experiment with movement variability as they refine more efficient and effective patterns for long-term performance improvements.		[Thompson, Isobel M.; Audot, Dorian A. G.; Hudson, Dominic; Banks, Joseph] Univ Southampton, Fac Engn & Phys Sci, Performance Sports Engn Lab, Southampton, England; [Warner, Martin B.] Univ Southampton, Fac Environm & Life Sci, Performance Sports Engn Lab, Southampton, England; [Logan, Oliver] Loughborough Univ, Biomech & Performance Anal, AquaticsGB, Sportpark, Loughborough, England; [Thompson, Isobel M.] Univ Southampton, Fac Engn & Phys Sci, Performance Sports Engn Lab, Southampton, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001691895300001	85	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Jiang, Xiaowei; Zhao, Troy T.; Chen, Sam; Li, Xin; Shi, Juan; Yang, Zhonglin								How do mega sports events foster campus renewal? A case study of the Chengdu Universiade								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0149				2026	PurposeThis study examines how mega sports events can facilitate campus renewal, with a focus on the multidimensional transformation of university spaces, infrastructure, and institutional functions. Taking the 31st Summer World University Games (Chengdu Universiade) as an empirical case, it explores how hosting event-related functions on campus contributes to sustainable and adaptive campus development.Design/methodology/approachAdopting a single case study approach, this research analyzes Chengdu University, which served as the designated site of the Universiade Village during the 2023 Chengdu Universiade. Guided by the Technology-Organization-Environment (TOE) framework and grounded theory methodology, the study examines campus transformation across three interconnected stages: event preparation, event implementation, and post-event adaptation. Empirical data were collected through policy document analysis, semi-structured interviews, field observations, and secondary sources. Inductive coding and thematic analysis were applied to identify the underlying mechanisms driving campus renewal.FindingsThe findings demonstrate that mega sports events do not inherently or automatically lead to campus transformation. Instead, sustained and meaningful renewal depends on the presence of enabling conditions such as policy alignment, institutional flexibility, and long-term integration of event-related resources. Campus renewal is shown to be a phased, context-sensitive process involving both material and organizational changes that extend beyond the event period.Originality/valueThis study contributes to the literature on campus development by offering a process-oriented perspective on how mega sports events interact with university systems. It provides a conceptual and empirical basis for understanding how universities can respond to and leverage large-scale event opportunities to promote campus renewal. The study offers implications for planners, administrators, and decision-makers involved in higher education infrastructure and policy.		[Jiang, Xiaowei; Li, Xin; Yang, Zhonglin] Chengdu Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Troy T.; Chen, Sam] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA USA; [Shi, Juan] Hebei Sport Univ, Dept Social Sports, Shijiazhuang, Peoples R China; [Shi, Juan] Hebei Sport Univ, Dept Social Sports, Shijiazhuang, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001689154800001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sarmento, Hugo; Martinho, Diogo; Pereira, Filipa; Pereira, Antonino; Araujo, Duarte								The road to expertise in U-20 football world champions: A multi-method approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261420672				2026	Portugal's "Gold Generation," one of the country's most talented groups of football players, won two U-20 World Championships in 1989 (Riyadh) and 1991 (Lisbon). This study aimed to holistically describe the development of a successful generation of Portuguese national football players and retrospectively examine the factors underlying their success. Participants included 31 of the 34 world champions, the head and assistant coaches, and seven additional influential stakeholders. Guided by an ecological dynamics framework, a multi-method design was used. Data were collected through semi-structured interviews and document/website analysis, and examined using qualitative (NVivo 11.0) and quantitative (SPSS 24.0) procedures. From this analysis, we proposed the "Ecological Model of Development for the Portuguese Football Gold Generation" (EMDPFGG).Findings suggest that this generation's success resulted from the players' talent, combined with the active leadership and holistic vision of head coach Carlos Queiroz, and favourable sociocultural conditions in Portuguese football and sport sciences. Queiroz recognized the opportunities offered by the Portuguese sociocultural context and acted on them across both macro- and micro-levels of development, influencing training, organization, and long-term player growth.Overall, the results support the idea that coaches who challenge the status quo of training methodologies, and guide athletes toward higher performance, adopt ambitious, updated, and holistic perspectives on the constraints that shape the game, including physical, technical, psychological, cultural, and organizational factors. Such comprehensive approaches can overcome the reductionism that characterizes many scientific studies and practical applications that focus only on isolated aspects of football performance.		[Sarmento, Hugo; Martinho, Diogo; Pereira, Filipa] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, CIPER, Coimbra, Portugal; [Sarmento, Hugo; Martinho, Diogo; Pereira, Filipa; Araujo, Duarte] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Pereira, Antonino] Escola Super Educ Viseu, Viseu, Portugal; [Sarmento, Hugo] Estadio Univ Coimbra, Fac Ciencias Desporto & Educ Fis, Ave Conimbriga,Pavilhao 3, P-3040248 Coimbra, Portugal								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001689646500001	49	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Takahashi, Naoki; Iwasaki, Ryo; Kubota, Hiroshi; Shinkai, Hironari								Characteristics of leg motion that related to bent knee violation in race walking								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261417463				2026	Race walkers must have a straightened knee from first contact until the vertical upright position. This study aimed to identify the characteristic motions in which an athlete is judged to have a bent knee by verifying the accuracy of judges' evaluation of a bent knee. Twenty athletes participated in this study and were categorised into two groups: those who received a red card (n = 10) and those who did not (n = 10). Their walking motions were captured using a digital video camera at 120 Hz. The step parameters (i.e., step frequency, step length, walking speed, and contact time) and knee joint angle were analysed during the stance phase. No significant differences were observed in any step parameter. The knee joints did not show significant differences during heel contact and immediately thereafter. However, compared with the no red card group, the red card group exhibited a significantly smaller knee joint angle during the mid-stance phase (22%-77%). Thus, athletes being conscious of keeping their knees extended even after the support leg is vertical may help avoid a red card.		[Takahashi, Naoki] Ibaraki Christian Univ, Coll Literature, Hitachi, Ibaraki, Japan; [Iwasaki, Ryo] Hannan Univ, Fac Informat Sci, Osaka, Japan; [Kubota, Hiroshi; Shinkai, Hironari] Tokyo Gakugei Univ, Arts & Sports Sci Div, Tokyo, Japan; [Takahashi, Naoki] Ibaraki Christian Univ, Coll Literature, Hitachi, Ibaraki, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001689650200001	17	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wagemans, Jente; Dingenen, Bart; Tassignon, Bruno								Return-to-sport following lateral ankle sprain: Connecting scientific frameworks and real-world protocols of elite sports teams								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101899	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101899			MAR 2026	2026	Lateral ankle sprains (LAS) are the most common lower-limb sports injuries and demonstrate high recurrence rates. Although several return-to-sport (RTS) frameworks exist, empirical, sport-specific criteria remain limited. Clinicians rely on heterogeneous or incomplete assessment strategies. This paper aims to answer how current RTS guidelines for LAS compare to RTS protocols in elite sports teams; and how RTS decision-making after LAS can be optimised by connecting conceptual frameworks and real-life protocols. Elite teams' protocols (n = 6) demonstrated large variability in RTS-phases, progression, and assessment strategies. Only one StARRT domain (specific tests) was universally assessed. All teams evaluated ankle range of motion, muscle function, jumping/hopping, and agility (PAASS framework). Psychological readiness, proprioception, contextual modifiers and ability to complete a full training were deficient in the protocols. Most protocols approached RTS with phases. Both literature and practice relied heavily on isolated tests, with minimal integration of sport-specific, continuous RTS assessments. Optimising RTS after LAS requires shifting from reductionist, single-time-point testing toward a complex-systems approach embedded across the RTS continuum. Clinicians should integrate progressive on-field rehabilitation, continuous monitoring across a broader range of factors influencing risk and readiness. Aligning frameworks with practical, phase-based protocols may enhance decision-making, reduce recurrence risk and facilitate return to performance.		[Wagemans, Jente] Univ Antwerp, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, Univ Pl 1, Antwerp, Belgium; [Wagemans, Jente] ARRISE Acad Res & Orthopaed Rehabil Ctr Innovat &, Antwerp, Belgium; [Wagemans, Jente] Bern Univ Appl Sci, Dept Hlth Profess, Bern, Switzerland; [Dingenen, Bart] Mot Balance, Genk, Belgium; [Tassignon, Bruno] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, REVAL Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Wagemans, Jente] Univ Antwerp, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, Univ Pl 1, Antwerp, Belgium								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001692119800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Jain, Charu; Balachandran, Uma; Valdivia, Luca M.; Vicioso, Camila; Koehne, Niklas H.; Locke, Auston R.; Yendluri, Avanish; Namiri, Nikan K.; Ranade, Sheena C.								Pediatric weight training fractures due to improper use: a review of national injury data, 2014-2023								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	3			236	243		10.1080/00913847.2026.2626767			MAY 4 2026	2026	Objectives Youth weight and resistance training are growing in popularity, offering benefits like improved performance and injury prevention. However, improper technique and lack of supervision can lead to injuries - many of which are preventable with proper training and guidance. This study examined weightlifting-related injury trends and causes among youth in U.S. emergency departments. It was hypothesized that injuries would increase from 2014 to 2023, teens would have the highest injury rates, and crush injuries to fingers and toes would be the most common. Methods The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS), a publicly available database representing approximately 100 US EDs, was used to identify fractures related to weightlifting in patients 0-18 years old. Fractures were included in this study if caused by improper use of equipment, dropped weights, crush injuries, or falls due to misplaced equipment. Queries were restricted to fractures from 2014 to 2023. Results From 2014 to 2023, an estimated 32,955 fractures related to weightlifting were identified, out of which, 28,647 were due to improper use. The mean age was 11.4 +/- 5.9 years. Across the study period, the highest number of fractures from improper use in a year was in 2023 (NEISS cases = 114, NE = 3639, 12.7%). Most fractures occurred in males (NEISS cases = 679, NE = 20380, 71.1%). Adolescents (15-18) were the most injured age group (NEISS cases = 376, NE = 12646, 44.1%), with fractures occurring most frequently at home (29.6%) and at places of recreation or sports (21.1%). The most fractured body parts were the finger (38.9%) and toe (38%). There was a significant increase in finger fractures across time (p < .01). Conclusion Weight training-related fractures due to improper use display an observed increasing trend among male youth in the US, with an actual case count of 1386 in 2014 increasing to 2815 in 2023. Additionally, there was a significant increase in finger injuries. Future research should be focused on implementing more stringent safety guidelines, increased supervision, as well as proper equipment use, and education for youth in the US, especially in homes and places of recreation.		[Jain, Charu; Balachandran, Uma; Valdivia, Luca M.; Vicioso, Camila; Koehne, Niklas H.; Locke, Auston R.; Yendluri, Avanish; Namiri, Nikan K.; Ranade, Sheena C.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5 East 98th St,9th Floor, New York, NY 10029 USA; [Jain, Charu] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5 East 98th St,9th Floor, New York, NY 10029 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001687289100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Wilkins, Luke; Gorman, Adam D.; Kittel, Aden								Game over for gamification? Comparing traditional and gamified virtual reality golf for enhancing intentions and attitudes towards the sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261420331				2026	Virtual reality (VR) sports games have the potential to positively influence intentions and attitudes towards sport. This study adopted a between-subjects design with 71 sport and exercise science university students to compare two modes of a VR golf game - Traditional Golf and Gamified Golf - against a non-sport VR game (Control). Intention and attitude towards golf were measured at baseline (four weeks prior to the intervention), immediately after a 20-min VR session, and at four-week retention. Perceptions relating to the VR gameplay were also obtained post-intervention. Results found that intentions towards golf did not change across time for any of the three groups. However, a significant time x group interaction was found for attitude towards golf. Specifically, the Gamified Golf group showed a decrease in attitude from baseline to post-intervention, whereas the Traditional Golf and Control groups showed no meaningful change. Analysis of the gameplay perceptions found that the Gamified Golf was perceived as being significantly easier and less effortful than the Traditional Golf. These findings suggest that gamification in VR golf may oversimplify the real-world experience of the sport and coincide with less favourable attitudes within this likely sport-engaged student cohort. These results are surprising given prior evidence supporting gamification principles. Nevertheless, we recommend that practitioners and stakeholders carefully consider that gamification may, in some contexts, have unintended effects on individuals' intentions and attitudes toward sport. Future research should test whether these effects replicate in more diverse participants (e.g., varying in age and baseline sport engagement) before generalising to wider populations.		[Wilkins, Luke] La Trobe Univ, Sports Performance & Nutr SPAN Res Grp, La Trobe Sports Stadium, Melbourne, VIC 3086, Australia; [Gorman, Adam D.] Queensland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Kittel, Aden] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Waurn Ponds, Australia; [Wilkins, Luke] La Trobe Univ, Sports Performance & Nutr SPAN Res Grp, La Trobe Sports Stadium, Melbourne, VIC 3086, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001687492900001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Vlahoyiannis, Angelos; Tsouloupas, Costas N.; Stavrinou, Pinelopi S.; Andreou, Panayiotis; Lysandrou, Pantelis; Shiantonas, Stylianos; Giannaki, Christoforos D.								Who sleeps worse and why? An analysis of sex, chrononutrition, anxiety, and sleep in adolescent athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261421009				2026	This study investigated how anxiety and chrononutrition are related to sleep in male and female adolescent athletes. In total, 460 adolescent athletes (14.7 +/- 1.5y; 38% female) completed the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI-S), and Chrononutrition Profile Questionnaire. Outcomes included anxiety, sleep and chrononutritional patterns, and misalignment between actual and preferred sleep and dietary schedules. Females showed shorter weekday sleep, greater weekly sleep-duration misalignment, and later weekly average breakfast timing, alongside narrower eating windows, than males. Across STAI-S categories, sleep duration decreased, breakfast time was later, and the eating window shortened (all, p < 0.01). In hierarchical regression, STAI-S was the strongest correlate of poorer PSQI; each 10-point higher STAI-S related to +2.63 PSQI (p < 0.001) and later breakfast time was independently related to worse PSQI (+0.30 per +60 min; p = 0.016). In mediation analysis, the sex difference in PSQI was largely accounted for by higher anxiety in females. Overall, poor sleep quality was related to higher anxiety and later breakfast timing. Females were disproportionately affected, and the sex gap in sleep quality was largely explained by higher anxiety. These findings highlight the need to address chrononutritional habits and anxiety to improve sleep, with particular attention to female adolescent athletes.		[Vlahoyiannis, Angelos; Tsouloupas, Costas N.; Stavrinou, Pinelopi S.; Andreou, Panayiotis; Lysandrou, Pantelis; Shiantonas, Stylianos; Giannaki, Christoforos D.] Univ Nicosia, Sch Life & Hlth Sci, Dept Life Sci, 46 Makedonitisas Ave, CY-1700 Nicosia, Cyprus; [Vlahoyiannis, Angelos; Stavrinou, Pinelopi S.; Giannaki, Christoforos D.] Res Ctr Exercise & Nutr RECEN, Nicosia, Cyprus; [Vlahoyiannis, Angelos] Univ Nicosia, Sch Life & Hlth Sci, Dept Life Sci, 46 Makedonitisas Ave, CY-1700 Nicosia, Cyprus								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001687178900001	27	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Morela, Eleftheria; Papageorgiou, Eleftheria; Filippou, Konstantinia; Kouli, Olga; Theodorakis, Yannis; Hatzigeorgiadis, Antonis								Coach-promoted values and multiculturalism attitudes toward refugees in team sport athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2078	2087		10.1177/17479541251413704			AUG 2026	2026	In the sport and acculturation literature, coach-created motivational environments and coach-promoted pro-social behaviour have been identified as key factors for positive acculturation attitudes favoring integration and multiculturalism, both for incoming and host populations. The present study aimed to further explore the relationship between coach-created environment, focusing on sport values, and multiculturalism attitudes towards refugees, and to investigate the potential mediating role of empathy, among members of the host population. Participants were 401 Greek adolescents (140 girls) with a mean age of 13.92 years participating in organized team sports. Participants' acculturation attitudes, empathy, and perception of the coach-promoted values were assessed in a cross-sectional correlational study. Analysis of structural models revealed that coach-promoted moral and competence values could predict athletes' multiculturalism attitudes toward refugees; a partial mediation effect for empathy was identified for the relationship between coach-promoted competence values and multiculturalism attitudes. The results of the present study strengthen the positive links that have been found between moral and competence values and prosocial behaviors, while partially reinforcing previous findings regarding the mediating role of empathy in shaping multiculturalism attitudes toward incoming groups. The findings have important implications for promoting multiculturalism through sport and emphasize the need to consider the socio-moral environment created by the coach in young athletes' acculturation preferences.		[Morela, Eleftheria; Papageorgiou, Eleftheria; Filippou, Konstantinia; Theodorakis, Yannis; Hatzigeorgiadis, Antonis] Univ Thessaly, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Trikala, Greece; [Morela, Eleftheria; Kouli, Olga] Democritus Univ Thrace, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Univ Campus, Komotini 69100, Greece; [Morela, Eleftheria] Democritus Univ Thrace, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Univ Campus, Komotini 69100, Greece								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001686449200001	60	Article; Article		
J	Romero-Franco, N.; Fernandez-Dominguez, J. C.; Vico-Moreno, E.; Bachero-Mena, B.; Sastre-Munar, A.; Bosch-Donate, E.								Effects of a 12-weeks pelvic floor exercises program on sports performance of female athletes: An exploratory randomized clinical trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101898	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101898			MAR 2026	2026	Objectives: To evaluate the effects of a 12-week pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) program on sports-related quality of life (sQoL) and countermovement jump (CMJ) in female athletes with pelvic floor dysfunctions (PFD). Design: Randomized controlled trial assigning female athletes with PFD to exercise (EG), exercise with biofeedback (EBG), or control (CG). Setting: App-based intervention including education, PFMT, and supervision. Participants: Forty-nine female athletes with PFD. Main outcome measures: Impact of PFD (urinary incontinence-UI-, anal incontinence-AI-, pelvic pain, prolapse) on sQoL, CMJ, and change in training tolerance, assessed pre-and post-intervention. Results: Thirty-five athletes completed the study. Post-intervention, EG and EBG reported lower sQoL impact than CG (p < 0.05), particularly referring UI (d = 1.1). Lower impact regarding AI and pain only occurred within EG and EBG. In CMJ, mean power was higher in EBG than CG (p = 0.044; d = 1.1), without differences for the rest of variables. Training tolerance was improved by a greater proportion of PFMT participants, without between-group differences (p = 0.098). Conclusions: A 12-week app-based PFMT may reduce the perceived impact of PFD on sQoL in female athletes. In CMJ, biofeedback showed higher mean power only compared with control. Future studies should confirm these effects in larger, sport-specific cohorts.		[Romero-Franco, N.; Fernandez-Dominguez, J. C.; Vico-Moreno, E.; Sastre-Munar, A.; Bosch-Donate, E.] Univ Balearic Isl, Nursing & Physiotherapy Dept, Rd Valldemossa,Km 7-5, Palma De Mallorca 07122, Spain; [Romero-Franco, N.; Fernandez-Dominguez, J. C.] Hlth Res Inst Balearic Isl IdISBa, Palma De Mallorca, Spain; [Bachero-Mena, B.] Univ Seville, Dept Human Movement & Sport Performance, Seville, Spain; [Sastre-Munar, A.] Univ Balearic Isl, Nursing & Physiotherapy Dept, Rd Valldemossa,Km 7-5, Palma De Mallorca 07122, Spain								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001689431500001	44	Article; Article		
J	Rubenstein, Kerianne; Stephenson, E. Frank								Look What You Made Me View: Taylor Swift and the Kansas City Chiefs' TV Ratings								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	3			309	319		10.1177/15270025261416424			APR 2026	2026	This paper uses ratings and viewership data from 247 NFL games played in the 2022 and 2023 seasons to assess the effect of Taylor Swift's relationship with Travis Kelce on the Chiefs' television audience. We find that Chiefs' viewership increases by about one-third beginning with Swift's first time attending a Chiefs' game in the third week of the 2023 season. Supplemental analysis suggests that the gain in the Chiefs' television audience can be explained both by new fans tuning in and existing fans substituting away from other games broadcast in the same time slot.		[Rubenstein, Kerianne] Syracuse Univ, Falk Coll Sport, Syracuse, NY USA; [Stephenson, E. Frank] Berry Coll, Dept Econ & Data Analyt, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA; [Stephenson, E. Frank] Berry Coll, Dept Econ & Data Analyt, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001685377700001	25	Article; Article		
J	Zillmann, Christopher J.; Collins, Natalie J.; Vicenzino, Bill; Jansz, James J.; Besomi, Manuela; Vuvan, Viana; Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich; Rayner, Nicole; Smith, Michelle D.								The reported characteristics of child and adolescent participants in research on non-traumatic anterior knee pain: a scoping review								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101896	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101896			MAR 2026	2026	The objectives of this review were to identify the characteristics reported for child/adolescent participants in research on patellofemoral pain, Osgood Schlatter Disease, patellar tendinopathy, Sinding Larsen Johansson Syndrome and non-specific anterior knee pain, and compare similarities and differences in reported characteristics between conditions. A systematic search occurred in PubMed, Embase, SPORTDiscus, CINAHL, Web of Science, and Cochrane Library until July 18, 2024. Studies were screened to identify full-text articles that were primary research, with purposeful recruitment of children and adolescents with one of the above-mentioned conditions. Reported participant characteristics were extracted, frequency counted and mapped to categories. Characteristics reported for each condition were compared descriptively. This review included 214 studies, with 950 different reported characteristics mapped to 34 categories. The most frequently reported categories were demographics (96.4%), condition features (63.2%), pain (47.7%), anthropometrics (46.8%), and physical activity (45.9%). There were similarities in the characteristics reported between the different non-traumatic anterior knee pain conditions. Aside from participant demographics (e.g., age, sex), there is considerable variability in the characteristics reported in child/adolescent non-traumatic anterior knee pain research. This suggests lack of agreement on characteristics that are important to report in this population, and the need for consensus.		[Zillmann, Christopher J.; Collins, Natalie J.; Vicenzino, Bill; Jansz, James J.; Besomi, Manuela; Vuvan, Viana; Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich; Rayner, Nicole; Smith, Michelle D.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Physiotherapy, St Lucia, Qld 4072, Australia; [Besomi, Manuela] Univ Desarrollo, Fac Med Clin Alemana, Carrera Kinesiol, Santiago, Chile; [Smith, Michelle D.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Physiotherapy, St Lucia, Qld 4072, Australia								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001686701300001	43	Article; Article		
J	Carmody, Sean; Massey, Andrew; Kerkhoffs, Gino; Gouttebarge, Vincent								The musculoskeletal health of retired elite women footballers								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	3			214	221		10.1080/00913847.2026.2625648			MAY 4 2026	2026	ObjectiveThe primary objective of this study was to describe the musculoskeletal health of retired elite women's footballers, with a particular emphasis on hip, knee, and ankle pain and function.MethodsRetired elite women's footballers (18 years or older) were surveyed on their history of severe hip, knee, and ankle injuries, and previous joint surgery. Validated questionnaires (e.g. Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score Physical Function Short Form (KOOS-PS)) were used to assess health outcomes, such as level of function and pain.ResultsSixty-two respondents completed the survey (mean age 35.5 years, mean age at retirement 30.5 years). Nineteen (30.6%) retired players reported experiencing hip pain at least once per month. Forty-four (71%) participants had at least one severe knee injury during their career, with nearly a third (n = 20, 32.3%) experiencing knee pain on a weekly basis. The majority (n = 48, 77.4%) of participants had experienced at least one severe ankle injury during their career. Hip, knee and ankle pain was associated with a history of severe hip, knee, or ankle injury during a playing career. A history of ankle surgery was associated with ankle pain. Mean KOOS-PS score (84.7) was lower than that seen in the general population, while hip/ankle outcome measures were comparable to the general population.ConclusionMusculoskeletal complaints, especially knee-related issues, are common among retired elite women's footballers, and are associated with severe injuries during a player's career. Collaborative injury prevention efforts are likely to lead to positive health benefits for current, future and former elite women's footballers.		[Carmody, Sean; Kerkhoffs, Gino; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Amsterdam UMC Locat Univ Amsterdam, Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Carmody, Sean; Kerkhoffs, Gino; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports ACHSS, IOC Res Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Massey, Andrew] Federat Internatl Football Assoc FIFA, Hlth & Med Dept, Zurich, Switzerland; [Kerkhoffs, Gino; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Musculoskeletal Hlth Sports, Amsterdam Movement Sci Ageing & Vital, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kerkhoffs, Gino; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Univ Pretoria, Sect Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Football Players Worldwide FIFPRO, Hoofddorp, Netherlands; [Carmody, Sean] Amsterdam UMC Locat Univ Amsterdam, Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, Netherlands								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001681586400001	52	Article; Article		
J	Fischer, Gabriella; Schweizer, Andreas; Wolf, Peter; Farr, Anais; Calcagni, Maurizio; Reissner, Lisa								Eccentric finger joint movements for different grip types in sport climbing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2621171				2026	Eccentric finger movements have been identified as risk factor in the injury mechanism of pulley ruptures during climbing. So far, they have mainly been associated with inadvertent events. Whether eccentric movements also occur as regular motion patterns was not assessed. Main purpose of this study was to examine eccentric finger movements during typical climbing tasks. Therefore, kinematics and interaction force of eleven elite climbers was recorded during a sequence of four climbing moves. Participants were instructed to use crimp, half-crimp, open-hand grip and campusing. Change of flexion angle in the proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joints from the start to the end of the holding phase (Delta PIPP2) was calculated. Mean Delta PIPP2 was -1.5 degrees (SD 6.6 degrees), 0.2 degrees (5.1 degrees), -2.9 degrees (3.4 degrees) and -6.0 degrees (9.6 degrees) for the open-hand, half-crimp, crimp and campusing task, respectively, whereby negative values represent eccentric movements. Eccentric finger joint movements (Delta PIPP2 < 0 degrees) during the holding phase were very common (59-73%) across all grip types. The loading rate was highest during campusing and lowest using the crimp grip. Climbers exhibit eccentric finger movements not only during accidental slips or when fatigued, but also as consistent patterns. Further research is needed to assess whether these differences are associated with an individual's risk of pulley injury.		[Fischer, Gabriella; Schweizer, Andreas; Reissner, Lisa] Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Hand Surg Div, Zurich, Switzerland; [Fischer, Gabriella; Calcagni, Maurizio] Univ Hosp Zurich, Div Plast Surg & Hand Surg, Zurich, Switzerland; [Wolf, Peter] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Sensory Motor Syst Lab, Zurich, Switzerland; [Farr, Anais] Univ Paris Saclay, Sport Sci Dept, Complex Innovat Act Motr & Sport, Orsay, France; [Farr, Anais] Univ Orleans, Complex Innovat Act Motr & Sport, Orleans, France; [Fischer, Gabriella] Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Hand Surg Div, Zurich, Switzerland; [Fischer, Gabriella] Univ Hosp Zurich, Div Plast Surg & Hand Surg, Zurich, Switzerland								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001682543200001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Morganti, Gabriele; Kelly, Adam L.; Tufo, Francesco; Ungureanu, Alexandru N.; Lupo, Corrado; Li Volsi, Damiano; Ruscello, Bruno; McAuley, Alexander B. T.; Verbeek, Jan; Brustio, Paolo R.								Footedness in male international football: Its association with selection and progression								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261418576				2026	Previous research has found an overrepresentation of left-sided athletes in team sports, where technical and tactical advantages may arise when players occupy specific portions of the field or court based on their laterality (the preferential use of one side of the body over the other). This study focussed on football and aimed to (i) examine the association between footedness, international selection likelihood, and positions by exploring the foot preference of 7507 male players selected for their respective national youth (U17, U19, and U21) and senior teams (England, France, Germany, Italy, and Spain), and (ii) analyse whether laterality interacts with players likelihood of progressing through the national pathway. Chi-square goodness-of-fit tests revealed an overrepresentation of left-footed players at the youth (>27%) and senior levels (26.5%) (p-values <.001) compared to normative values (15%). The results from the chi-square test of independence indicated left-footed players were frequently recruited as defenders, whereas right-footed players were more often selected as midfielders and forwards (p-values <.001). Transition rates from youth squads to the senior national teams were generally low, with no significant difference according to laterality. Players who debuted at the U21 level or sustained a higher level of performance throughout their youth careers recorded higher conversion rates. Findings suggest that the overrepresentation of left-footed players may be related to their relative rarity, and is in line with theoretical accounts underlining survival (higher performance outcomes when used in specific portions of the field) and attraction (corresponding to technical and tactical demands) advantages in selection.		[Morganti, Gabriele; Ruscello, Bruno] San Raffaele Roma Open Univ, Dept Human Sci & Promot Qual Life, Rome, Italy; [Morganti, Gabriele; Kelly, Adam L.; McAuley, Alexander B. T.] Birmingham City Univ, Fac Hlth Educ & Life Sci, Ctr Life & Sport Sci CLaSS, Res Athlete & Youth Sport Dev RAYSD Lab, Birmingham, England; [Tufo, Francesco; Ungureanu, Alexandru N.; Lupo, Corrado; Li Volsi, Damiano; Brustio, Paolo R.] Univ Turin, Sch Exercise & Sport Sci, Neuromuscular Funct Res Grp, Turin, Italy; [Ungureanu, Alexandru N.] Univ Turin, Dept Life Sci & Syst Biol, Turin, Italy; [Lupo, Corrado; Li Volsi, Damiano] Univ Turin, Dept Med Sci, Turin, Italy; [Verbeek, Jan] Univ Groningen, Fac Behav & Social Sci, Dept Psychol, Groningen, Netherlands; [Verbeek, Jan] Royal Netherlands Football Assoc KNVB, Zeist, Netherlands; [Brustio, Paolo R.] Univ Turin, Dept Clin & Biol Sci, I-10126 Turin, Italy; [Brustio, Paolo R.] Univ Turin, Dept Clin & Biol Sci, I-10126 Turin, Italy								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001683256300001	54	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Vikatou, Theano; Jubb, Caroline; Angioi, Manuela; Versace, Elisabetta; Abdallah, Diane; Weber, Xavier; Cavallaro, Andrea; Morrissey, Dylan								Usability testing of digitally augmented visual feedback for remote exercise rehabilitation of injured dancers and athletes: a mixed-methods feasibility study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101889	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101889			MAR 2026	2026	Objectives: Digital tools facilitate equitable access to guided rehabilitation, however inadequate software and implementation compromise resultant movement fidelity and therefore outcomes. We aimed to develop, and evaluate the usability of, a novel digital tool to support tele-rehabilitation. Design: An iterative-convergent mixed-methods was used to remotely support participants' rehabilitation. The digital tool superimposed an outline of optimal technique onto the body. Setting: Online. Participants: Twelve injured dancers and 8 athletes were recruited (age: 32.4 f 12.2). Main outcome measures: The System-Usability-Scale (SUS), complemented with explanatory qualitative interviews were analysed using a matching integration strategy and iteratively informed tool and implementation refinement. Scaled questions regarding movement accuracy, error-detection and confidence were analysed to determine efficacy. Results: SUS mean scores, improved from the first round (mean f SD) 67 f 18.6 to the final round 86 f 5, with all major usability issues resolved. Qualitative analysis revealed seven themes: accessibility, acceptability, integration, confidence, ease of use, learnability and satisfaction. Qualitative analysis guided problem identification and the underlying reasons. Meaningful differences after feedback were observed for accuracy (Cohen's d = 0.9,CI = 95 %) and error detection (d = 0.61) but not confidence (d = 0.34). Conclusions: Our digital tool demonstrates encouraging promise for enhancing tele-rehabilitation fidelity, motor-learning, and movement quality. Serious usability issues were resolved, yielding a tool suitable for wider release and integration into rehabilitation support software.		[Vikatou, Theano; Jubb, Caroline; Angioi, Manuela; Morrissey, Dylan] Queen Mary Univ London, William Harvey Res Inst, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England; [Vikatou, Theano; Jubb, Caroline; Morrissey, Dylan] Barts Hlth NHS Trust, Physiotherapy Dept, London, England; [Versace, Elisabetta; Abdallah, Diane] Queen Mary Univ London, Dept Psychol, London, England; [Weber, Xavier; Cavallaro, Andrea] Queen Mary Univ London, Sch Elect Engn & Comp Sci, London, England; [Morrissey, Dylan] Podium Analyt, London, England; [Morrissey, Dylan] Queen Mary Univ London, William Harvey Res Inst, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001686930200001	50	Article; Article		
J	Layton, Matthew; Collins, Dave; Taylor, Jamie								Discriminating capacities of physical performance testing in male youth soccer academy programmes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251405477				2026	Objective assessment and monitoring of physical performance in soccer players are mandated features of practice in English soccer academies. Based on these approaches, our interest was to investigate and compare the longitudinal physical performance profiles of those players that had eventually been successful and unsuccessful at the two highest levels, becoming male professional English Premier League and Championship level soccer players. The specific research objective was to investigate the between player variability and predictive validity of physical assessment measures against eventual playing outcome. A total of 297 male youth participants (born between 1999 to 2006) affiliated to three category one academies were tracked for eight years across six objective physical tests. Data were analysed by a series of mixed method ANOVAs, comparing outcome with age. Canonical Discriminant Function Coefficients and the TRIPOD Statement were applied for transparent reporting of prediction efficacy. Results suggest that physical characteristics offer little or no discriminatory power. We conclude by offering guidance for academies' interpretation and usage of physical data.		[Layton, Matthew] Swansea Com Stadium, Swansea City Football Club, Swansea, Wales; [Layton, Matthew; Collins, Dave] Univ Edinburgh, Moray House Sch Educ & Sport, Holyrood Campus, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Collins, Dave; Taylor, Jamie] Dublin City Univ, Fac Sci & Hlth, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Collins, Dave; Taylor, Jamie] Grey Matters Performance UK, Stratford Upon Avon, England; [Layton, Matthew] Swansea Com Stadium, Swansea City Football Club, Swansea, Wales; [Layton, Matthew] Univ Edinburgh, Moray House Sch Educ & Sport, Holyrood Campus, Edinburgh, Scotland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001681334800001	61	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Meireles, Alex Santos; Nunes, Rodolfo de Alkmim Moreira; da Silva, Jurandir Baptista; da Moura, Veronica Rangel; da Silva, Giullio Cesar Pereira Salustiano Mallen; Silva, Yuri Rolim Lopes; Lopes, Gustavo Casimiro; Vale, Rodrigo Gomes de Souza								Effects of resistance training based on optimum power load and time under tension on mechanical variables and repetition number in the vertical jump performance of trained individuals								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261417110				2026	The aim of this study was to analyze the effects of resistance training (RT) based on optimum power load (OPL) and time under tension (TUT) on mechanical variables and the number of repetitions in the vertical jump performance of trained individuals. Twenty-five trained individuals participated in two sessions: one for OPL testing and another for the intervention consisting of 5 sets of 20 seconds of TUT. Data were collected on mechanical variables, number of repetitions, rating of perceived exertion (RPE), and countermovement jump (CMJ) and squat jump (SJ) tests, before and after the intervention. There was a significant decline in CMJ and SJ performance in terms of flight time, height, and absolute and relative power (p < 0.05). TUT was lower in set 5 (S5) compared to sets 1 (S1), 2 (S2), and 4 (S4) (p < 0.05). Velocity was lower in S5 compared to S1, S2, set 3 (S3), and S4 (p < 0.05). Power was higher in S1 compared to S4 and S5 (p < 0.05). Force was lower in S4 compared to S1, S2, and S3 (p < 0.05). Mechanical work was lower in S5 compared to S1, S2, S3, and S4 (p < 0.05). RPE was lower in S1 compared to S2, S3, S4, and S5 (p < 0.05). The RT protocol based on OPL and TUT led to reductions in mechanical variables across the five 20-second sets, especially from S4 onward. These reductions may have reflected a progressive accumulation of neuromuscular fatigue, as evidenced by the decline in vertical jump test performance and the increase in RPE.		[Meireles, Alex Santos; Nunes, Rodolfo de Alkmim Moreira; da Moura, Veronica Rangel; da Silva, Giullio Cesar Pereira Salustiano Mallen; Silva, Yuri Rolim Lopes; Lopes, Gustavo Casimiro; Vale, Rodrigo Gomes de Souza] Rio de Janeiro State Univ UERJ, Postgrad Program Exercise & Sport Sci, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Meireles, Alex Santos; Nunes, Rodolfo de Alkmim Moreira; da Silva, Jurandir Baptista; da Silva, Giullio Cesar Pereira Salustiano Mallen; Silva, Yuri Rolim Lopes; Vale, Rodrigo Gomes de Souza] Rio de Janeiro State Univ UERJ, Inst Phys Educ & Sports IEFD, Lab Exercise & Sport LABEES, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [da Moura, Veronica Rangel; Lopes, Gustavo Casimiro] Rio de Janeiro State Univ UERJ, Inst Phys Educ & Sports IEFD, Lab Exercise Pathophysiol LAFE, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [da Silva, Giullio Cesar Pereira Salustiano Mallen] Fed Rural Univ Rio de Janeiro UFRRJ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports DEFD, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Meireles, Alex Santos] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Sao Francisco Xavier St 524,Joao Lira Filho Pavil,, BR-20550900 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001682291500001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Deng, Yuan; Liu, Shubo								The communication strategies of Chinese fitness online influencers: a multimodal discourse analysis based on discipline theory perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-06-2025-0285				2026	PurposeThis study attempts to explore the strategies of fitness discourse.Design/methodology/approachIt employs a multimodal discourse analysis approach to examine the communication strategies of influencers who own personal brands on new media platforms and their short video content.FindingsThe findings reveal that fitness influencers on Douyin leverage the appeal of fluid and everyday penetration of new media to craft a personal brand identity as "professional knowledge educators". Through discourse construction strategies such as spatial mobility and visibility, temporal linearity and rhythmicity and the authority of knowledge, these influencers emphasize the professionalism of the fitness knowledge they disseminate. By positioning their audience as passive recipients of knowledge and education, they reinforce an upgraded form of external discipline over their audience's bodies.Originality/valueFirst, this study explores the interactive relationship between body, health and society, provides a new perspective for the research in the field of sports health and reveals the disciplinary mechanism (especially self-discipline) behind health consumption in the context of mobile Internet and consumer society. Second, the conclusions of this study have certain reference significance in improving the personal brand building ability of fitness practitioners, promoting the development of digital marketing in the fitness industry and promoting the innovation and optimization of short-form fitness videos.		[Deng, Yuan] Peking Univ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Deng, Yuan] Univ Calif Berkeley, Berkeley, CA USA; [Liu, Shubo] Cent Univ Finance & Econ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Liu, Shubo] Cent Univ Finance & Econ, Beijing, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001678161600001	66	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Walzel, Stefan; Behrens, Anton; Reuland, Nicolas								Corporate social responsibility as a risk insurance strategy for sports sponsorships								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	1			135	153		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2025-0024			FEB 4 2026	2026	PurposeSponsorships as service engagement platforms are a complex and difficult undertaking, as negative incidents might endanger the sponsorship value. The aim of this study is to investigate to what extent leveraging sponsorships with corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities can reduce the risk of brand damage for sponsors.Design/methodology/approachAn experimental study was conducted in a 2 & times; 2 between-subjects design (CSR vs. no CSR-leveraging x positive vs. negative doping test). Attitude toward the sponsor and resistance to negative information toward the sponsor served as dependent variables.FindingsCSR-leveraging (vs. no CSR-leveraging) has a significant positive effect on the sponsor's brand attitude. The effect is mediated by increased sponsorship-fit. A positive doping test for the sponsored athlete(s), however, cancels the perception of increased sponsorship-fit from the CSR-leverage. Leveraging sponsorships with CSR in sport is beneficial despite possible sport scandals involving the sponsored athlete(s).Originality/valueThis study provides empirical evidence for the influence of other actors on sponsorship value and how sponsors can proactively mitigate risks in sport sponsorship through leveraging sponsorships with CSR in sports.		[Walzel, Stefan; Reuland, Nicolas] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Behrens, Anton] Univ Leipzig, Fac Sport Sci, Leipzig, Germany; [Walzel, Stefan] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001746400700001	72	Article; Article		
J	Valzolgher, Chiara; Sorio, Nicola; Pecchini, Alessia								Evaluating training load self-monitoring in female soccer players: Estimating GPS-derived parameters								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261417824				2026	This study explores the feasibility of assessing self-monitoring abilities in a female semi-professional soccer team. It investigates whether athletes can accurately evaluate their external workload by comparing GPS-derived metrics with subjective estimates, including perceived exertion and self-estimated distances. Furthermore, the study exploratorily examines whether regular, session-by-session feedback improves athletes' estimation accuracy over time compared to sporadic feedback limited to match performance. Twenty-three female athletes (age 21.1 +/- 3.7 years) participated in the experiment. After familiarization with the task, their monitoring abilities were assessed by asking them to estimate total distance, very high-speed running distance (>20 km/h), and RPE (Borg CR10 scale) without accessing GPS data (7-8 training sessions considered on average). During subsequent training sessions, athletes in the experimental group were shown the actual GPS data after each post-training estimation, whereas the control group continued to estimate the parameters without feedback (56-57 training sessions considered on average). Finally, monitoring abilities were reassessed for all participants. The results show that female football players underestimated the Total Distance covered during training sessions (p < 0.001). However, the experimental group's accuracy of their distance estimations significantly improved compared to the control group (p = 0.01), suggesting that regular feedback appears to be an effective strategy for enhancing athletes' self-monitoring abilities, with potential implications for optimizing training autonomy and performance awareness in elite sports contexts.		[Valzolgher, Chiara] Univ Trento, Ctr Mind Brain Sci CIMeC, Corso Bettini 31, I-38068 Trento, Italy; [Sorio, Nicola] SSD Hellas Verona Women ARL, Strength & Conditioning Area, Verona, Italy; [Pecchini, Alessia] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Valzolgher, Chiara] Univ Trento, Ctr Mind Brain Sci CIMeC, Corso Bettini 31, I-38068 Trento, Italy								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001681777500001	62	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ward, Jonathan; Bonnet, Damien; Roumeau, Mickael; Louit, Loic; Chaplain, Olivier; Mathieu, Bertrand; Castel, Marie-Aurelie; Halimi, Patrice; Raymond, Jean-Jacques; Piscione, Julien; Gavarry, Olivier								Head acceleration events in academy rugby players: Impact of playing position on magnitude and incidence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251411381				2026	Background: Head acceleration events (HAEs) are increasingly recognised for their cumulative impact on brain health in contact sports. While instrumented mouthguards (iMGs) have advanced the monitoring of HAEs in elite rugby, limited data exist for academy-level players. This study investigated positional differences in the magnitude and incidence of HAEs in Under-21 (U21) professional academy rugby union. Methods: Seventy U21 rugby players wore iMGs across 51 matches (359.2 h, 368 player matches), capturing 6742 HAEs. Peak linear acceleration (PLA), peak angular acceleration (PAA), and change in peak angular velocity (Delta PAV) were recorded. HAEs were categorised by intensity (low, medium, high). Non-parametric tests assessed magnitude differences. Negative binomial regression, adjusted for playing time, was used to compare positional incidence rates. Results: Forwards had significantly higher PLA (p < 0.001), while Backs had higher Delta PAV (p < 0.001). No positional differences were found for PAA (p = 0.38). The Back Row had the highest incidence across all magnitudes. Forwards experienced 25.3 HAEs/hour, while Backs had 11.9/hour. At higher magnitudes, Back Row and Front Row players showed the greatest exposure. Conclusion: Positional differences in HAE magnitude and frequency are evident in professional academy rugby. Forwards, especially the Back Row, are exposed to more frequent and higher-magnitude impacts. These findings support the use of iMGs to monitor cumulative exposure and inform position-specific contact load management strategies in academy rugby environments.		[Ward, Jonathan; Bonnet, Damien; Roumeau, Mickael; Halimi, Patrice] Provence Rugby, 330 Rue Pascal Duverge, F-13090 Aix En Provence, France; [Ward, Jonathan; Louit, Loic; Gavarry, Olivier] Toulon Univ, Lab Youth Phys Act & Sports Hlth J AP2S, Toulon, France; [Chaplain, Olivier; Mathieu, Bertrand; Castel, Marie-Aurelie; Piscione, Julien] French Federat Rugby, Marcoussis, France; [Raymond, Jean-Jacques] St Musse Hosp, Sport Med & Traumatol Unit, Toulon, France; [Raymond, Jean-Jacques] South Rugby League Med Commiss, Le Pradet, France; [Ward, Jonathan] Provence Rugby, 330 Rue Pascal Duverge, F-13090 Aix En Provence, France; [Ward, Jonathan] Toulon Univ, Lab Youth Phys Act & Sports Hlth J AP2S, Ave Univ, F-83130 La Garde, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001681782400001	24	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ganderton, Charlotte; O'Brien, Michael J. M.; Farragher, Joshua; Fort-Novoa, Carlos; Coonan, Alesha; Wallis, Andrew; Munro, David; Balakumar, Jitendra; King, Matthew G.								Exercise rehabilitation to improve hip-related pain and quality of life in full-time student circus arts performers: A non-randomised pre-post intervention trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101891	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101891			MAR 2026	2026	Objective To examine changes in hip-related pain, quality of life, strength, and functional task performance following a 12-week rehabilitation program (Melbourne Hip Protocol; MHP) in circus arts students with hip-related pain. Study design Pre-post intervention trial. Setting Circus arts training facility. Participants Vocational and higher education circus arts students with clinically and radiologically diagnosed hip-related pain conditions. Main outcome measures The Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS), International Hip Outcome Tool 12 (iHOT-12) at baseline, 3, 6, and 10-month follow-up. Hip muscle strength, range and functional task performance at baseline and 3-month follow-up. Results 28 circus students were included. The largest improvements in HAGOS sub-scale scores were seen in quality of life from baseline to 6-months (adjusted mean difference 10.5 [95%CI 3.1, 17.9], p = 0.001) and 10 months (11.1 [3.6, 18.6], p = 0.001). iHOT-12 baseline scores improved across all three follow-up time points (3-months 10.6 [3.7, 17.4], p < 0.001; 6-months 13.4 [6.5, 20.3], p < 0.001; 10-months 12.9 [6.0, 19.8], p < 0.001). Average and peak hip muscle strength improved in all movements (p < 0.05) except internal rotation (p > 0.05). Conclusion These findings highlight the potential benefits of the proposed structured, semi-supervised rehabilitation program for this unique population and support further investigation in a fully powered RCT.		[Ganderton, Charlotte; Farragher, Joshua] RMIT Univ, Sch Hlth & Biomed Sci, Bundoora, Vic 3083, Australia; [O'Brien, Michael J. M.; Fort-Novoa, Carlos] La Trobe Univ, Australian IOC Res Ctr, Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Munro, David] Natl Inst Circus Arts, Prahran, Vic 3181, Australia; [Ganderton, Charlotte] Shanghai Univ Hlth & Med Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [O'Brien, Michael J. M.; Balakumar, Jitendra] Melbourne Orthopaed Grp Sports Med, Windsor, Vic 3181, Australia; [Coonan, Alesha; Wallis, Andrew; King, Matthew G.] La Trobe Univ, Discipline Physiotherapy, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Ganderton, Charlotte] RMIT Univ, Sch Hlth & Biomed Sci, Bundoora, Vic 3083, Australia								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001685626200001	57	Article; Article		
J	Asian-Clemente, Jose A.; Requena, Bernardo; Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente; Galiano, Carlos								Comparison of position and possession games attending to the positional external load: Does player specific position matter?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			170	181		10.1177/17479541251347144			FEB 2026	2026	The aims of our study were to compare the differences in external load between position and possession games according to player specific role, and to examine the external load demands of position games across player positions on different pitch sizes. 25 professional players were monitored using GPS during 18 possession (without positional roles) and position games (with positional roles). All games were played in a 9 vs. 9 + 2 floaters format, with each task occurring in Small (<60 m(2) per payer), Medium (60-90 m(2) per player), and Large (> 90 m(2) per player) sizes. Position games showed lower distance covered (DC) for Central-defenders, Fullbacks and Offensive midfielders, as well as reduced high-speed running among Central-defenders compared to possession games (p < 0.05). In contrast, position games presented larger maximal decelerations for Central-defenders (p < 0.001) and acceleration above 3 m<middle dot>s(-2) (ACC (>) (3)) in Fullbacks (p = 0.001) than possession games. In position games, regardless of the player's role, DC and peak speed was lower in Small (p < 0.05). High-intensity accelerations/decelerations showed a heterogeneous pattern, with Central-midfielders showed larger maximal decelerations/accelerations and ACC/DEC (>) (3) in Large than Medium. Offensive-midfielders showed larger maximal decelerations in Large and Medium than Small and more ACC (>) (3) in Large than Medium. Finally, Fullbacks performed more DEC (>) (3) in Large than Small while Forwards did in Small than Large (p < 0.05). Due to the variability in external load responses based on player positions, practitioners should consider the type and size of position games used to adjust players' external loads during training.		[Asian-Clemente, Jose A.; Requena, Bernardo; Galiano, Carlos] Football Sci Inst, FSI Lab, Ave Del Conocimiento 4,Oficina 405, Granada 18016, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose A.] Univ Pablo Olavide, Dept Sport Sci, Seville, Spain; [Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente] Univ Cardenal Herrera CEU, CEU Univ, Sch Humanities & Commun Sci, Dept Educ Sci, Castellon De La Plana, Spain; [Galiano, Carlos] Univ Loyola Andalucia, Dept Commun & Educ, Seville, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose A.] Football Sci Inst, FSI Lab, Ave Del Conocimiento 4,Oficina 405, Granada 18016, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001686067400048	43	Article; Article		
J	Skotniczny, Karol; Toborek, Micha s; Terbalyan, Artur; Zaj, Adam; Gawe, Mateusz; Siatkowski, Szymon; Chycki, Jakub								Pre-Exercise Hydration Modulates the Sweat Rate and Executive Control during Moderate Exercise to 3% Dehydration under Thermoneutral Conditions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				285	303		10.5114/jhk/220097			FEB 2026	2026	Dehydration impairs endurance and may compromise cognition, yet the impact of pre-exercise hydration status on thermoregulation and cognitive function during continuous exercise is not well defined. Thirty physically active men were randomized to be tested either well-hydrated (HYD; n = 16) or insufficiently hydrated (HYP; n = 14), classified by fasting urine specific gravity (USG; HYD < 1.018; HYP > 1.018) verified over three weeks. On the experimental day, participants cycled at 50% maximal power output (Wmax) under thermoneutral conditions (22 degrees C, 45% RH) until 3% body-mass loss or for 120 min. Core temperature (Tc) was recorded continuously, the sweat rate (SR) was derived from nude body-mass change, and executive function (Stroop Interference) along with visuospatial working memory (Corsi Block-Tapping) were assessed pre- and post-exercise. Participants in the HYD group produced a higher SR (4SRmean +0.30 L & centerdot;h-1, 95% CI 0.18-0.43; 4SRpeak +0.34 L & centerdot;h-1, 95% CI 0.04-0.63) and were more likely to reach 3% mass loss (10/16 vs. 1/14; p = 0.002). Despite greater sudomotor output, early Tc burden (0-90 min) did not differ between groups. Hydration status selectively affected executive control: Stroop naming interference showed a time & times; status interaction (F(1,27) = 4.57, p = 0.042), driven by slowing in HYP participants (approximate to+63 ms, p = 0.029), whereas Corsi indices were unchanged. These findings support targeting euhydration before prolonged exercise (e.g., morning USG <1.018), as inadequate baseline hydration may impair inhibitory control even when early Tc responses are comparable. Accordingly, for training or competition requiring rapid decision-making and attentional control, pre-exercise hydration strategies (planned fluid intake and/or USG-based monitoring) may be warranted to mitigate decrements in executive function.		[Skotniczny, Karol; Terbalyan, Artur; Zaj, Adam; Gawe, Mateusz; Siatkowski, Szymon; Chycki, Jakub] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Toborek, Micha s] Univ Miami, Miller Sch Med, Dept Biochem & Mol Biol, Miami, FL USA; [Skotniczny, Karol] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400018	49	Article; Article		
J	Park, Chan-Ho; Jung, Hyun Chul								The Relationship between Training Load Indicators and the Total Quality Recovery Scale during the Preseason Period in Collegiate Taekwondo Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				133	145		10.5114/jhk/217225			FEB 2026	2026	This study examined the relationship between training load (TL) indicators and recovery status (total quality recovery, TQR) during the preseason training period in collegiate Taekwondo athletes. A total of 25 athletes (17 males and 8 females; age: 19.2 +/- 1.04 years, training experience: 6.8 +/- 3.40 years, body height: 168.0 +/- 8.08 cm, body mass: 64.1 +/- 8.38 kg, fat content: 15.9 +/- 7.21%) participated in this prospective observational study. Over eight weeks, 855 training sessions were monitored. TL was quantified using the session rating of perceived exertion (sRPE) method, and derived TL indicators [weekly load variation (SD4), rolling average acute:chronic workload ratio (RA ACWR), exponentially weighted moving average acute:chronic workload ratio (EWMA ACWR), training monotony (TM), and training strain (TS)] were calculated. Recovery status was assessed daily using the TQR scale. In the univariate linear mixed model analyses, SD4 (beta = -0.30, 95% CI [-0.51, -0.08], p = 0.006) and the EWMA ACWR (beta = -0.46, 95% CI [-0.64, -0.29], p < 0.001) were significantly associated with TQR. However, in the multivariate model, only the EWMA ACWR (beta = -0.74, 95% CI [-0.97, -0.52], p < 0.001) remained a significant predictor. These findings suggest that the EWMA ACWR is the most sensitive TL indicator for capturing short-term changes in recovery status. Integrating the EWMA ACWR with simple tools such as the TQR scale may help coaches balance TL and recovery in preseason training. Future studies should include additional physiological and psychological markers to evaluate whether EWMA ACWR-based load management can effectively reduce injury risk and enhance athletic performance.		[Park, Chan-Ho] Kyung Hee Univ, Grad Sch, Dept Phys Educ, Yongin, South Korea; [Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Sports Coaching, Yongin, South Korea; [Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Sports Sci Res Ctr, Yongin, South Korea; [Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Sports Coaching, Yongin, South Korea; [Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Sports Sci Res Ctr, Yongin, South Korea								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400009	40	Article; Article		
J	Sebin, Saime Ozbek; Sebin, Engin; Gulakar, Basak; Gencoglu, Cebrail; Ozbay, Serhat; Ulupinar, Suleyman; Altinkaynak, Konca; Ozkara, Abdullah Bora								Aerobic Exercise under Cold Conditions May Affect the Cardiac Structure by Elevating the Galectin 3 and CK-MB Levels								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				87	102		10.5114/jhk/213943			FEB 2026	2026	This study aimed to evaluate the myocardial effects of aerobic exercise in cold weather in healthy individuals by measuring galectin-3 (Gal-3) and CK-MB levels. Forty-one individuals (12 professional athletes [age: 21.91 +/- 2.60 years, body mass: 63.5 +/- 8.4 kg, BMI: 21.7 +/- 1.6 kg/m(2)], 14 physically active [age: 21.95 +/- 2.30 years, body mass: 65.5 +/- 10.3 kg, BMI: 22.4 +/- 1.4 kg/m2], and 15 sedentary individuals [age: 21.40 +/- 2.64 years, body mass: 62.5 +/- 7.4 kg, BMI: 22.2 +/- 1.7 kg/m(2)]) participated in this study. Athletes and physically active individuals performed 40 minutes of acute aerobic running exercises at 0 degrees C and 20 degrees C environmental temperatures. Gal-3 and CK-MB levels were measured pre-and postexercise. Baseline Gal-3 levels of professional athletes (p < 0.001) and physically active individuals (p = 0.048) were significantly higher than those of sedentary individuals. Two-way ANOVA showed significant interaction (p = 0.035) between temperature (0 degrees C vs. 20 degrees C) and exercise (pre-vs. post-exercise). At 0 degrees C, there was a significant increase in postexercise serum Gal-3 levels when compared with pre-exercise values (p < 0.001, +7.1%), whereas no significant difference was observed at 20 degrees C. Moreover, no significant interaction was found for CK-MB levels (p = 0.306) between the temperature (0 degrees C vs. 20 degrees C) and exercise (pre-vs. post-exercise). Additionally, there was a significant difference between pre-and post-exercise values at the 0 degrees C environmental temperature for serum CK-MB levels (p < 0.001), while there was no significant difference at 20 degrees C. This study demonstrates that regular exercise is associated with biochemical abnormalities that may affect cardiac structure and function. Aerobic exercise under cold conditions may cause myocardial injury.		[Sebin, Saime Ozbek] Ataturk Univ, Med Fac, Dept Physiol, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Sebin, Engin] Erzurum City Hosp, Dept Med Biochem, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Gulakar, Basak] Kafkas Univ, Med Fac, Dept Physiol, Kars, Turkiye; [Gencoglu, Cebrail; Ozbay, Serhat; Ulupinar, Suleyman] Erzurum Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Altinkaynak, Konca] Hlth Sci Univ, Med Fac, Dept Med Biochem, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Ozkara, Abdullah Bora] Karadeniz Tech Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Educ, Trabzon, Turkiye; [Sebin, Saime Ozbek] Ataturk Univ, Med Fac, Dept Physiol, Erzurum, Turkiye								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400006	44	Article; Article		
J	Rodiles-Guerrero, Luis; Bachero-Mena, Beatriz; Sanchez-Moreno, Miguel								Impact of Prior Fatigue on Velocity Loss as a Set-Termination Criterion in the Bench Press Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				35	48		10.5114/jhk/214212			FEB 2026	2026	This study analyzed the relationship between the percentage of completed repetitions with respect to the maximum that can be performed (%Rep) and the velocity loss (VL) in the bench press exercise after a previous effort (PE). Fourteen men performed four protocols (one week apart) consisting of a set to failure with 60% of one-repetition maximum (1RM) preceded by a PE with the same load but different VL magnitude (0%: PE0, 20%: PE20, 40%: PE40, and 60% of VL: PE60). Velocity against 60% 1RM (V60-load) and blood lactate concentration were measured after each PE. The relationship %Rep-VL was obtained through the coefficient of determination (R2) and the standard error of estimate (SEE). Absolute reliability and differences during the set to failure were calculated. V60-load decreased significantly in all protocols (except PE0) (p <= 0.05). Blood lactate concentration increased with the magnitude of effort (p <= 0.05). Regarding the relationship %Rep-%VL, as the %VL increased during the PE, the R2 decreased and the SEE increased. %Rep showed "satisfactory" absolute reliability above 15%VL, with the absolute differences being high-moderate (<10%) for all VL magnitudes (except PE0-40 with 60%VL). VL is a reliable and accurate set termination criterion with a PE of any magnitude, but higher reliability is observed with low-moderate levels of fatigue.		[Rodiles-Guerrero, Luis; Bachero-Mena, Beatriz] Univ Seville, Dept Human Movement & Sport Performance, Seville, Spain; [Rodiles-Guerrero, Luis; Bachero-Mena, Beatriz; Sanchez-Moreno, Miguel] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Sci Based Training Phys Performance & Sports Res C, Seville, Spain; [Sanchez-Moreno, Miguel] Univ Seville, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Seville, Spain; [Rodiles-Guerrero, Luis] Univ Seville, Dept Human Movement & Sport Performance, Seville, Spain; [Rodiles-Guerrero, Luis] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Sci Based Training Phys Performance & Sports Res C, Seville, Spain								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400003	39	Article; Article		
J	Nunes, Renan F. H.; Pereira, Lucas A.; Fiorenza, Juan P.; Paes, Carlos A.; Grazioli, Rafael; Bryk, Piotr; Loturco, Irineu								Strength and Power Responses to a Power-Oriented Resistance Training Model across an Entire Soccer Competitive Season								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				245	255		10.5114/jhk/218820			FEB 2026	2026	This study investigated longitudinal changes in strength- and power-related performance across an entire competitive season in elite soccer players using a frequent and systematic monitoring approach. Twenty-three professional players competing in the Brazilian first division were monitored over seven consecutive months. Athletes performed two to three resistance training (RT) sessions per week, with one weekly "control" session used to adjust training loads and assess neuromuscular status through bar-derived measures obtained in the half-squat exercise. Relative power (RP), relative strength (RS), and estimated one-repetition maximum (1RM) were recorded across 28 training sessions using the load associated with maximum power output. Weekly variations were analyzed using a 4-week rolling average, and pre-, mid-, and post-season periods were compared using repeated-measures ANOVA. Across the season, RP, RS, and 1RM exhibited a gradual and consistent positive trend. While only isolated meaningful changes were detected when individual sessions were compared with rolling averages, significant improvements were observed at the post-season time point compared with both pre- and mid-season values (p < 0.05). Notably, despite a modest similar to 5% increase from pre- to post-testing, absolute training loads did not change significantly across the season, indicating that performance gains were achieved without meaningful increases in training load magnitude. These findings demonstrate that a poweroriented RT model, supported by continuous monitoring and load adjustments, can effectively preserve and enhance strength and power throughout a competitive soccer season. This approach appears to mitigate commonly reported inseason declines in neuromuscular performance and offers a practical strategy for managing RT under congested competitive schedules.		[Nunes, Renan F. H.; Bryk, Piotr] Criciuma Esporte Clube, Hlth & Performance Dept, Criciuma, Brazil; [Pereira, Lucas A.; Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Pereira, Lucas A.; Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Fiorenza, Juan P.; Paes, Carlos A.] Coritiba Foot Ball Club, Hlth & Performance Dept, Curitiba, Brazil; [Grazioli, Rafael] Sao Francisco Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Braganca Paulista, Brazil; [Bryk, Piotr] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Loturco, Irineu] Sao Paulo Football Federat, Sci Dept, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Football Sci Inst, Granada, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Sao Paulo Football Federat, Sci Dept, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Football Sci Inst, Granada, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400015	35	Article; Article		
J	Esnal-Arrizabalaga, Oihan; Garcia-Tabar, Ibai; Gonzalez-Artetxe, Asier; Los Arcos, Asier								The dRM-Index: Applicability of the Differential Respiratory-to-Muscular Training Load Index in Young Female Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				73	86		10.5114/jhk/211330			FEB 2026	2026	This study described the differential respiratory and muscular perceived training loads (RPEres-TL and RPEmus-TL) within and between sessions, and investigated the associations between neuromuscular performance and the dRM-Index (i.e., the ratio of differential respiratory and muscular perceived training loads: RPEres-TL divided by RPEmus-TL) among youth female soccer players. Thirteen outfield players (age: 17 +/- 1 years) of the third team of a Women's Soccer Spanish First Division Club completed the 14-week study period. Neuromuscular performance tests (countermovement jump [CMJ], CMJ arm swing, single leg CMJ, and 30-m sprint tests) were conducted before (T1) and after (T2) the study period. Players improved neuromuscular performance (p < 0.05; Cohen's d < 1.29; small-to-large) from T1 to T2. RPEres-TL was greater than RPEmus-TL for training sessions performed four (M-4: p < 0.001; Cohen's d = -0.61; moderate) and one (M-1: p = 0.01; Cohen's d = -0.37; small) days before the match. Baseline sprint performance showed large correlations with the dRM-Index during M-2 (p < 0.05; r < 0.59), M-1 (p < 0.05; r < 0.60) and matches (p < 0.05, r < 0.66). Differential RPE allows the analysis of the TL distribution during the week providing additional insights into the training workload. Baseline sprint performance can be used to forecast the differed heterogeneous individual cardiovascular and neuromuscular responses to the sessions. This initial study on the dRM-Index offers a novel and practical approach to individualize and optimize the training process of youth female soccer players.		[Esnal-Arrizabalaga, Oihan; Garcia-Tabar, Ibai; Gonzalez-Artetxe, Asier; Los Arcos, Asier] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Araba, Spain; [Esnal-Arrizabalaga, Oihan] Soc Deport Eibar, Dept Strength & Conditioning, Eibar, Gipuzkoa, Spain; [Garcia-Tabar, Ibai; Gonzalez-Artetxe, Asier; Los Arcos, Asier] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Soc Sports & Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Araba, Spain; [Garcia-Tabar, Ibai] Bioaraba Hlth Res Inst, Phys Act Exercise & Hlth Grp, Vitoria, Araba, Spain; [Garcia-Tabar, Ibai] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Araba, Spain; [Garcia-Tabar, Ibai] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Soc Sports & Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Araba, Spain; [Garcia-Tabar, Ibai] Bioaraba Hlth Res Inst, Phys Act Exercise & Hlth Grp, Vitoria, Araba, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400005	44	Article; Article		
J	Li, Caiyan; Wang, Anjie; Hurr, Chansol								Effects of Hot Water Immersion at Different Temperatures during a Transition Period on Vertical Jump Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				21	33		10.5114/jhk/215290			FEB 2026	2026	Increased muscle temperature (Tm) enhances exercise performance but can decrease during the transition period between the warm-up and the competition. Although passive warming strategies can maintain Tm, the optimal heating temperatures and their effects on performance are unclear. Seventeen healthy males participated in this study with four experimental conditions: no intervention (CON), hot water immersion at 36 degrees C (HWI36), 39 degrees C (HWI39), and 42 degrees C (HWI42) during a 20-min transition period. Vertical jump (VJ) performance, core temperature (Tc), the heart rate (HR), and perceived thermal comfort were measured across eight VJ sets (VJ1-8) performed over 1 h, and biomechanical analyses were conducted to understand the changes in jump performance. Significant improvements in VJ performance were observed immediately after the transition period under all hot water immersion (HWI) conditions compared to CON (CON 49.2 +/- 4.7 vs. HWI36 50.9 +/- 4.8 vs. HWI39 52.2 +/- 3.8 vs. HWI42 53.5 +/- 4.4 cm, all p < 0.05 for VJ2). HWI39 and HWI42 sustained greater VJ performance up to 50 min post-immersion than did CON and HWI36 (all p < 0.05 for VJ2-7). HWI39 and HWI42 increased knee range of motion and peak knee angular acceleration in the concentric phase during jumps (p < 0.05). Tc and the HR were significantly higher under the HWI42 condition (p < 0.05), with participants reporting greater thermal discomfort. HWI39 and HWI42 during the transition period enhanced and sustained VJ performance, with HWI39 being more tolerable. The enhanced VJ performance was primarily due to improved range of motion and concentric muscle contraction. These findings provide valuable insights for the optimization of passive warming strategies in competitive sports.		[Li, Caiyan; Wang, Anjie; Hurr, Chansol] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Integrat Exercise Physiol Lab, Jeonju, South Korea; [Li, Caiyan] Chengdu Univ Tradit Chinese Med, Sch Phys Educ & Hlth, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Wang, Anjie] Anhui Polytech Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Wuhu, Peoples R China; [Hurr, Chansol] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Integrat Exercise Physiol Lab, Jeonju, South Korea								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400002	44	Article; Article		
J	Adamczyk, Jakub Grzegorz; Michalak, Bartlomiej; Gutkowski, Lukasz; Baldyka, Jakub; Sillero-Quintana, Manuel; Boguszewski, Dariusz; Gryko, Karol; Mikolajec, Kazimierz; Kopiczko, Anna								Thermal Responses to Exercise in Male Master Track & Field Athletes: Monitoring during Competition								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				227	243		10.5114/jhk/218447			FEB 2026	2026	Due to involutional changes, the ability to perform physical exercise may undergo dynamic alterations. Therefore, analysis of physiological variables characterizing the response to competitive effort in Master athletes can provide additional information about the condition of the athlete and any potential dysfunctions. The aim of the study was to assess the impact of physical effort (warm-up and competition) on changes in skin surface temperature (Tsk) of the lower limbs in athletes across different age categories. Considering the abrupt changes in the functioning of various systems, athletes were divided into three age categories: 35-45 years, 50-65 years, and over 70 years of age. Thermographic imaging was applied at rest and immediately after the race. In the 35-45 age group, a statistically significant decrease in Tsk was observed after exercise, particularly in the area of the rectus femoris muscle of both lower limbs, with the largest reduction recorded for the right rectus femoris muscle (Delta T-sk = 0.63 degrees C). Significant changes in Tsk were also found in the left biceps femoris muscle and the right gastrocnemius muscle. In the 50-65 and 70+ age groups, the changes were not statistically significant. Overall, exercise-induced changes in lower-limb skin temperature were evident primarily in the youngest Master athletes, whereas no consistent or statistically significant age-related differences were observed among groups. These findings suggest a relative preservation of thermoregulatory responses with advancing age in trained individuals, however, given the predominantly non-significant inter-group comparisons, agerelated interpretations should be considered exploratory.		[Adamczyk, Jakub Grzegorz; Michalak, Bartlomiej; Gutkowski, Lukasz; Baldyka, Jakub] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Theory Sport, Warsaw, Poland; [Baldyka, Jakub; Sillero-Quintana, Manuel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Boguszewski, Dariusz] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Individual Sports, Warsaw, Poland; [Gryko, Karol] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Team Sport Games, Warsaw, Poland; [Mikolajec, Kazimierz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Basketball & Football, Katowice, Poland; [Kopiczko, Anna] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Human Biol, Warsaw, Poland; [Gryko, Karol] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Team Sport Games, Warsaw, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400014	57	Article; Article		
J	Skotniczny, Karol; Walencik, Jan; Siatkowski, Szymon; Chycki, Jakub								Core-Perception Coupling: Relationships among Core Temperature, the Rating of Perceived Exertion, and Thirst during Moderate Continuous Exercise under Different Hydration Status								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				317	338		10.5114/jhk/220099			FEB 2026	2026	Hydration status modulates both exercise performance capacity and exercise tolerance. This study aimed to examine within-trial relationships among core temperature (Tc), ratings of perceived exertion (RPE), and thirst during moderate continuous cycling, and to test whether baseline hydration status would moderate these associations. Thirty trained men (34.7 +/- 6.1 years; VO(2)max 48.8 +/- 5.8 ml center dot kg(-1)center dot min(-1)) completed up to 120 min of cycling at 50% Wmax under thermoneutral conditions. Participants were randomized to an experimental group receiving structured hydration counseling (EXP, n = 16) or a control group following habitual fluid intake (CON, n = 14). Hydration status was verified via urine specific gravity; Tc (CORE heat-flux sensor), the heart rate, RPE (0-10), and thirst (0(sic)-10) were recorded every 15 min. Analyses included repeated-measures tests, Spearman correlations, and ANCOVA adjusting for baselines and VO(2)max. Tc rose from rest and tended to plateau by similar to 60-75 min, whereas RPE and thirst increased throughout. Hydration status predicted higher RPE (partial eta(2) = 0.41, p < 0.001) with Tc not independently significant (p = 0.81); VO(2)max was not a significant predictor, although the effect estimate suggested an inverse association with RPE (p = 0.058). For thirst, hydration status remained significant (partial eta(2) = 0.27-0.50, p <= 0.005). Comparing the two groups, the CON group showed greater increases in RPE (Delta RPE mean +0.23 +/- 0.05, p < 0.001; Delta RPE peak +0.53 +/- 0.10, p < 0.001) and thirst (Delta Thirst mean +0.23 +/- 0.04, p < 0.001). EXP participants more often completed the 120-min trial (75.0% vs. 28.6%; chi(2) = 10.57, p = 0.014). Perceptual coupling was strong (Delta RPE-Delta Thirst r_s approximate to 0.84), with Delta RPE inversely related to VO(2)max and Delta Tc modestly. Starting exercise euhydrated reduces perceived effort and thirst during prolonged, thermoneutral cycling, while Tc per se adds little explanatory power for RPE after adjustment. Simple field markers (thirst, heart rate) can flag emerging strain, particularly in less fit individuals.		[Skotniczny, Karol; Walencik, Jan; Siatkowski, Szymon; Chycki, Jakub] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Skotniczny, Karol] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400020	58	Article; Article		
J	Marinof, Alexanter; Martinez-Sobrino, Jesus; del Cerro, Jesus Santos; Gonzalez-Rave, Jose Maria; Veiga, Santiago								Managing Training Load in the Lead-Up to Competition: Session-Rating of Perceived Exertion, not the Acute-to-Chronic Workload Ratio, Associated with the Performance of Elite Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				271	284		10.5114/jhk/218950			FEB 2026	2026	This study aimed to investigate the dynamic relationship between training loads and swimming performance among elite swimmers over a 40-week training period. Training data from seven international-level swimmers (4 men and 3 women) were collected during three macrocycles comprising one target competition each. The best personal times at the beginning of the cycle (MTp) were used to calculate the change in the swimmer's performance at the end of each macrocycle (MT1, MT2, and MT3). The training volume in the pool and the gym, as well as the session rating of perceived exertion (SRPE) were used to calculate the acute-to-chronic workload ratio (ACWR). Associations between training loads and performance change were analyzed using linear mixed models (LMMs), with the swimmer identity being included as a random intercept to account for repeated measures. The higher accumulated dry-land and swimming load during the final seven weeks preceding competition was negatively associated with performance (z_D_SRPEkg7: /3 = -20.3; z_W_SRPEkm7: /3 = -15.5), whereas ACWR-based models showed limited explanatory value. The findings of the study emphasize that monitoring the swimmer's SRPE in the lead-up to competition can be important for performance optimization.		[Marinof, Alexanter; Martinez-Sobrino, Jesus; Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte INEF, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain; [del Cerro, Jesus Santos] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Dept Stat, Toledo, Spain; [Gonzalez-Rave, Jose Maria] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sports Sci, Sports Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte INEF, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400017	36	Article; Article		
J	Zhao, Jinwei; Losinska, Kinga; Chen, Luyao; Aschenbrenner, Piotr								Neuromuscular Adaptation to Varying Drop Jump Heights: A Muscle Synergy Approach in Elite Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				101				147	164		10.5114/jhk/217230			FEB 2026	2026	Rapid single-leg landings and rebounds are central to high-performance handball, yet little is known about neuromuscular coordination adaptations to changing mechanical demands under such conditions. This study examined how different landing heights would modulate lower limb muscle synergy patterns in elite male handball players performing single-leg drop jumps. Twenty professional athletes executed rebound jumps from five standardized heights (0.15-0.75 m). Kinematic data, ground reaction forces, and surface electromyography (sEMG) from seven lower limb muscles were collected and synchronized. Muscle synergies were extracted using non-negative matrix factorization (NMF), while the temporal characteristics of activation patterns were analyzed with SPM1d. Across landing heights, synergy dimensionality remained stable while both muscle weightings and phase-specific activation (pre-activation, buffering, propulsion) were systematically modulated. These height-dependent adjustments were consistent with redistribution within existing motor modules rather than isolated muscle-specific changes. Practically, programming unilateral plyometrics at similar to 0.60 m may elicit the most pronounced, yet controlled, adaptation of braking and push-off strategies relevant to impact-force management.		[Zhao, Jinwei; Losinska, Kinga] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Chen, Luyao] Zhengzhou Univ Light Ind, Dept Phys Educ, Zhengzhou, Peoples R China; [Aschenbrenner, Piotr] Harbin Sport Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Harbin, Peoples R China; [Losinska, Kinga] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001736020400010	35	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Grau, Jordi; Parada-Rivera, Irene; Font, Roger; Garcia-Fresneda, Adrian; Carmona, Gerard								Initial Maximum Push-Rim Propulsion Test: From Assessment to Performance Enhancement Through Targeted Training in Wheelchair Court Sports								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				48	1			1	9		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000923			FEB 2026	2026	The increasing prominence of adapted sports is driving the evolution of performance optimization in Paralympic athletes, particularly in wheelchair court sports such as basketball and rugby. The Initial Maximum Push-Rim Propulsion (IMPRP) test has emerged as an effective tool for assessing mechanical performance, providing critical insights into key parameters such as initial propulsion force, acceleration, and overall power. This article delves into the mechanics of the IMPRP test, its reliability, and the preliminary normative data, highlighting its relevance across various functional classifications. Early findings reveal strong correlations between IMPRP outputs and sprint performance, suggesting the test's potential to predict in-game performance. However, the lack of comprehensive normative data and the need for further understanding of game-induced fatigue on IMPRP outcomes represent existing challenges. In addition, the article introduces a structured training program designed to enhance IMPRP performance, targeting both general strength and sport-specific propulsion techniques. The program is adapted according to an athlete's functional classification, ensuring personalized interventions. Future research should focus on expanding normative data, addressing fatigue dynamics, and refining training strategies, ultimately enhancing the IMPRP test's application in training programs and performance assessments, thereby contributing to the continued advancement of wheelchair sports.		[Sanchez-Grau, Jordi] San Jorge Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Zaragoza, Spain; [Sanchez-Grau, Jordi; Parada-Rivera, Irene; Font, Roger; Garcia-Fresneda, Adrian; Carmona, Gerard] Pompeu Fabra Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Res Grp Technol Appl High Performance & Hlth TAARS, Tecnocampus, Barcelona, Spain; [Garcia-Fresneda, Adrian] Pompeu Fabra Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Res Grp Technol Appl High Performance & Hlth TAARS, Tecnocampus, Barcelona, Spain								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001678169800009	27	Article; Article		
J	Gnagey, Matthew; Koford, Brandon C.								Superstar Effects in the WNBA: Is Caitlin Clark the First WNBA Superstar?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	3			320	332		10.1177/15270025261416426			APR 2026	2026	This study quantifies superstar effects in the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA), by examining how star players impact game attendance, with particular focus on 2024 rookie Caitlin Clark. Using a panel dataset of WNBA game-level attendance from 1997-2024, and a sample of 27 identified star players, we estimate attendance demand using both linear and censored Tobit models. We find that Clark generates unprecedented attendance effects that significantly exceed those of any previous or current WNBA player, including reigning and three-time MVP A'ja Wilson and Angel Reese, another highly popular rookie. Our estimates indicate Clark's presence increases attendance by 7,900 and 6,400 fans for home and away games, respectively. Her attendance effect surpasses the impact Michael Jordan had on NBA attendance from prior studies. This research provides the first estimates of superstar effects on WNBA attendance, offering new insights into our understanding of consumer behavior in women's professional sports.		[Gnagey, Matthew; Koford, Brandon C.] Weber State Univ, Dept Econ, 1337 Edvalson St,Dept 3807, Ogden, UT 84408 USA; [Gnagey, Matthew] Weber State Univ, Dept Econ, 1337 Edvalson St,Dept 3807, Ogden, UT 84408 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001675073600001	16	Article; Article		
J	Procter, Lane; Williams, Graham; Till, Kevin; Cowburn, Ian								Youth athleticism: Perspectives on what is it, why is it important and how to measure it								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2390	2405		10.1177/17479541251407999			AUG 2026	2026	While athleticism is recognised as a guiding principle for youth development, practitioners' perceptions of athleticism are variable and unidimensional. Therefore, this study aimed to explore academic and practitioner perceptions around the concept of athleticism, including its importance and measurement. A multi-method survey was completed by 167 academics and practitioners (sport coaches and strength and conditioning coaches). The survey consisted of six sections: (1) participant demographics; (2) role specific demographics; (3) knowledge of athleticism; (4) importance of athleticism; (5) perceptions of the current definition of athleticism; and (6) measuring athleticism. Fixed response quantitative data were analysed in SPSS and qualitative data were analysed using template analysis. Athleticism was described as a multi-dimensional (i.e., physical and psychological), dynamic (i.e., product and a process that interacts with the environment), and adaptable (i.e., individual, environment and sporting context specific) concept. Developing athleticism was deemed important for both participation and performance environments for: 1) mental and physical health and wellbeing, 2) engagement in physical activity and sport, 3) enhancing physical and psychosocial characteristics, 4) reducing injury risk, and 5) for successful sporting performance. However, numerous theoretical and practical challenges were identified for measuring athleticism. It is imperative that academics and practitioners working with youth are cognizant of the athleticism descriptors (i.e., multi-dimensional, dynamic and adaptable) when researching and developing youth athleticism.		[Procter, Lane; Till, Kevin; Cowburn, Ian] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds LS1 3HE, England; [Procter, Lane; Williams, Graham] Millfield Sch, Street, England; [Procter, Lane] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds LS1 3HE, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001673442300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Griggs, A.; Earle, J.; Tallent, J.; Moran, J.; Cushion, E.; Howe, L.								The annual changes and differences in the physical performance characteristics of sports school students								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251412762				2026	Sports schools provide an environment that foster both academic and sporting excellence in youth athletes, yet physical performance during adolescence is strongly influenced by biological growth and maturation. High intensity actions such as sprinting, jumping and changing direction are important in many sports, particularly team sports, but how these characteristics develop across the school year remains unclear, especially in mixed-sex populations. This study explores the seasonal variations in physical performance across an academic year within a sports school, accounting for biological maturation status and sex. A total of 337 different student athletes between the ages 9-19 years (14.10 years +/- 1.93) completed anthropometrics assessments, maturity estimations (percentage predicted adult height) and performance testing (20 m sprint, countermovement jump, Pro Agility and 30-15 IFT) at up to ten testing dates across four year (2021-2024). Performance increased with both chronological age and biological maturity in both sexes. In males, sprint, agility, and jump performance increased progressively across age groups, while females demonstrated significantly lower performance at U12 compared to all other age groups yet few differences after that except in 20 m sprint. Females saw maturational differences between pre- and post-PHV in all tests. A significant interaction between test date and maturity was evident in males for CMJ and VO2max yet only a small effect size was evidenced. These findings highlight the importance of tracking sex specific and maturity related changes across the academic year to appropriately support training prescription, particularly in female athletes who may require more targeted developmental opportunities.		[Griggs, A.; Tallent, J.; Moran, J.; Cushion, E.; Howe, L.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Griggs, A.; Earle, J.] Culford Sch, Bury St Edmunds IP28 6TX, England; [Earle, J.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Ctr Child & Adolescent Phys Literacy, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Griggs, A.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001673485600001	81	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lee, Sangwoo; Levine, Nicholas; Kim, Jemin								An exploratory study in relationship between biomechanical bilateral asymmetry and power output during the power clean								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541261415600				2026	Biomechanical bilateral asymmetry can be significantly related to power production during the power clean. We investigated the relationship between bilateral asymmetry in ground reaction force (GRF) and lower extremity (hip, knee, and ankle) net joint torques (NJT) and whole-body power (WBP) during the power clean. Ten experienced weightlifters performed five trials of the power clean with 75% of one repetition maximum. Peak GRF and lower extremity NJT and WBP were extracted through a three-dimensional motion analysis. Differences in GRF and NJT asymmetries were extracted. Pearson correlation coefficients were obtained to observe the relationship between GRF and lower extremity NJT asymmetries and WBP during the power clean. A stepwise multiple regression analysis was conducted to identify the best predictor of WBP during the power clean with hip, knee, and ankle NJT asymmetries being the independent variables. Hip and ankle NJT asymmetries were characterized by significant negative correlations with WBP (r = -.38, p < .01). Hip and ankle NJT asymmetries also appeared to be significant predictors of WBP with up to 32% of the variance in WBP explained. In conclusion, it is suggested that power clean training programs needs to incorporate muscle balance training, particularly of the hip extensors and ankle plantarflexors, for performance and safety purposes.		[Lee, Sangwoo] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, 1903 W Michigan Ave, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Levine, Nicholas] Brooke Army Med Ctr, Ctr Intrepid, San Antonio, TX USA; [Kim, Jemin] Louisiana State Univ Shreveport, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Shreveport, LA USA; [Lee, Sangwoo] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, 1903 W Michigan Ave, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001673091800001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Simoes, Jonathan; Bottom, Mike; Haworth, Joshua								Palmar triaxial force magnitudes as predictors of sprint front crawl performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2618123				2026	The development of wearable technology in swimming has enabled easier collection of greatly detailed stroke metrics across researchers and practitioners alike. In particular, the use of pressure sensors on swimmers' palms allows for a nuanced analysis of the stroke cycle previously only available via time-intensive video analysis. This study aimed to evaluate whether triaxial force magnitudes recorded via wearable sensors could predict sprint swimming performance. Twenty-five NCAA Division I swimmers (13 female, 12 male; age 20.5 +/- 1.6 years) participated in three maximal-effort 50-metre front crawl swims. Force data were summarised into three directional magnitudes-propulsive, vertical, and lateral. Multiple regression analysis indicated that greater propulsive (p = 0.03) and downward (p = 0.01) force on the left hand were significantly associated with faster swim times (R-2 = 0.38, p < 0.01), whereas right-hand forces were not significant predictors of performance (p = 0.05). These findings suggest that swimmers and coaches may benefit from emphasising propulsive and downward force production during sprint front crawl. Further research is needed to understand how the asymmetries between hands, particularly relating to hand dominance and breathing preference, affect propulsion.		[Simoes, Jonathan; Haworth, Joshua] Oakland Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Rochester, MI 48063 USA; [Haworth, Joshua] Oakland Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Rochester, MI 48063 USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001669190300001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Vial, Shayne; Kendall, Kristina L.; Comfort, Paul; Haff, G. Gregory								Functional data analysis of joint coordination during the pull of the power clean								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2025.2603400				2026	The purpose of this study was to use a bivariate functional principal component analysis (bfPCA) to quantify hip-knee joint movement patterns and assess their relationship with power clean performance. Thirty strength-power athletes completed a one repetition maximum (1RM) power clean test where hip and knee joint angle data from the heaviest successful lift were recorded and analysed using bfPCA. Three principal components were extracted, primarily reflecting variability in hip joint angle throughout the pull (pattern 1), knee joint angle at the starting position (pattern 2), hip-knee joint motion from the middle of the first pull through to the end of the second pull (pattern 3). Correlation analyses revealed no significant or meaningful correlations between power clean performance and patterns 1 or 2 (r = -0.10 and 0.04, p = 0.60 and 0.85, respectively), suggesting that inter-individual differences in starting position may not negatively impact power clean performance. However, pattern 3 was weakly but significantly correlated with power clean performance (r = 0.39, p = 0.03), with higher-performing lifters displaying movement patterns characterised by a more upright torso at the power position and a more controlled, prolonged first pull. These findings suggest that coaches focus on these aspects of the movement to potentially maximise power clean performance.		[Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Vial, Shayne; Kendall, Kristina L.; Comfort, Paul; Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Strength & Power Res Grp, Joondalup, Australia; [Comfort, Paul; Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, England; [Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Exercise Med Res Inst, Joondalup, Australia; [Nagatani, Tsuyoshi] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Strength & Power Res Grp, Joondalup, Australia								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001666508800001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Cardoso, Ricardo; Gomes, Beatriz B.; Abraldes, Ja; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.								The influence of blade design on rowing sprint performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2026.2616007				2026	To assess the biomechanical differences between Randall foils and Big blades in rowing sprints, 12 experienced rowers (10 males) with 25.9 +/- 8.7 vs. 24.5 +/- 9.2 y, 179.8 +/- 4.3 vs. 175.0 +/- 2.8 cm of height, 74.2 +/- 4.8 vs. 65.5 +/- 6.2 kg of body mass and 23.0 +/- 1.4 vs. 26.6 +/- 1.4 kg/m(2) of body mass index (for males and females) performed two randomised maximal-intensity 500 m bouts using Randall foils and Big blades. Biomechanical variables were recorded using GPS and IMU-based systems. Randall foils presented lower race time (108.3 +/- 5.10 vs. 109.90 +/- 4.93 s, p = 0.04), higher mean velocity (4.62 +/- 0.20 vs. 4.55 +/- 0.19 m/s, p = 0.03) and velocity coefficient of variation (11.38 +/- 5.10 vs. 10.14 +/- 3.68, p = 0.01). Velocity-time profiles showed higher velocity with Big blades from similar to 62-68% and similar to 82-98% of the cycle, particularly at the start (10-30%, 60-72% and 80-92%) and finish (20-25% and 60-65%). Overall, Randall foils provided a consistent advantage that may be decisive in races where outcomes are decided by fractions of a second.		[Cardoso, Ricardo; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Cardoso, Ricardo; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [Gomes, Beatriz B.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, CIDAF Res Unit Sport & Phys Act, Coimbra, Portugal; [Abraldes, Ja] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport,Campus San Javier, Res Grp Movement Sci & Sport MS&SPORT, Murcia, Spain; [Cardoso, Ricardo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Cardoso, Ricardo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001667151200001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Steinberg, Nili; Shenhar, Michal; Finestone, Aharon S.; Witchalls, Jeremy; Waddington, Gordon; Shina, Avraham; Dar, Gali								Prevention exercises for reduced incidence of ankle sprains during military infantry training								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101887	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101887			MAR 2026	2026	Objectives: To determine the influence of stability exercises on the prevalence of ankle sprains during infantry training; and whether soldiers in the intervention (INT group) with reduced pre-induction ankle instability have a different prevalence of ankle sprains during training compared with soldiers in the control (CON group) who also exhibit reduced instability. Design: Intervention. Participants: Two groups of infantry males (INT, n = 421; CON, n = 365). Main outcome: Pre-induction chronic-ankle-instability (CAI), anthropometrics, and somatosensory acuity were assessed. A physiotherapist assessed ankle-sprains that occurred during the 12-week of infantry training. The INT group performed exercises (5minX5times/week) during infantry training. Results: The prevalence of ankle sprains was significantly lower in the INT versus the CON group (13.1 % and 24.7 %, respectively, p < 0.001). Survival analysis demonstrated lower rate of sprains for INT than for CON (p < 0.001). Soldiers with pre-induction instability (reduced somatosensory acuity, perceived-instability, recurrent ankle-sprains and CAI) who commenced training (INT) had significantly lower prevalence of ankle sprains during training compared with soldiers with reduced abilities in the CON (p < 0.001). Conclusions: Soldiers who completed the injury prevention-program had reduced prevalence of ankle-sprains. Soldiers with reduced ankle stability at the commencement of training had a reduced chance of injury during training if undertaking static-to-dynamic exercises.		[Steinberg, Nili; Shenhar, Michal] Acad Coll Levinsky Wingate, Wingate Campus, Netanya, Israel; [Shenhar, Michal; Dar, Gali] Univ Haifa, Fac Social Welf & Hlth Studies, Dept Phys Therapy, Haifa, Israel; [Finestone, Aharon S.] Shamir Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Zerifin, Israel; [Finestone, Aharon S.] Tel Aviv Univ, Affiliated Fac Med, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Witchalls, Jeremy] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, Australia; [Waddington, Gordon] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Canberra, Australia; [Shina, Avraham] Israel Def Forces, Mil Med Corps, Jerusalem, Israel; [Shina, Avraham] Hebrew Univ Jerusalem, Med Sch Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel; [Steinberg, Nili] Acad Coll Levinsky Wingate, Wingate Campus, Netanya, Israel								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001677648100001	50	Article; Article		
J	McCrea, David; Welch, Neil; Griffin, Colin; Moran, Kieran; Kung, Stacey; Strike, Siobhan								Inter trial & inter session reliability of a novel reactive step back acceleration test in athletes post Achilles Tendon Repair								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101884	10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.12.006			MAR 2026	2026	Objectives: To assess inter session and inter trial reliability of a novel acceleration test in both healthy and injured cohorts post Achilles (AT) repair. Design: Test-retest study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Nineteen individuals overall. 9 injured participants post Achilles Tendon repair, 10 healthy participants. Main outcome measures: Participants tested on two occasions, 7 days apart. The test required participants to react in a standing start to an external cue (light), and accelerate as quickly as possible through timing gates 4 m away. Spatiotemporal, kinematic and kinetic variables of the first step back during acceleration were assessed using 3D motion capture and embedded force plates. Results: Results showed that the majority of spatiotemporal, ankle and knee specific kinetic and kinematic variables had good (ICC >0.75) to excellent (ICC >0.9) inter session reliability in both injured and healthy groups. Conclusions: This reactive sprint acceleration assessment can be reliably used by clinicians to assess ankle and knee-specific recovery post injury and overall acceleration performance.		[McCrea, David] Univ Roehampton, Dublin, Ireland; [McCrea, David; Welch, Neil; Griffin, Colin; Kung, Stacey] UPMC Sports Surg Clin, Dublin, Ireland; [Moran, Kieran] Maynooth Univ, Maynooth, Kildare, Ireland; [Strike, Siobhan] Univ West London, London, England; [McCrea, David] Univ Roehampton, Dublin, Ireland								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001677648400001	33	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Yanhao; Song, Qipeng; Wang, Qi; Zhang, Xinmeng; Shen, Peixin; Harithasan, Deepashini; Singh, Devinder Kaur Ajit								Home-based exercise for chronic ankle instability: A systematic review and meta-analysis of effectiveness and program characteristics								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101890	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101890			MAR 2026	2026	This meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the effects of home-based exercise on patient-oriented function and balance control among individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Literature searches were conducted in seven Databases from inception to June 9, 2025. The Risk of Bias 2.0 tool was used to assess the risk of bias, while meta-analyses and sensitivity analyses were performed using RevMan 5.3.0 and Stata 14.0 software. The GRADE approach was applied to evaluate the quality of evidence. Main outcomes included the patient-oriented function and balance control. Nine studies involving 333 participants were included. The results indicated that homebased exercise significantly improves patient-oriented function (SMD = 0.73, p < 0.001) and balance control (SMD = 0.52, p < 0.001) among individuals with CAI. No significant differences were found between homebased and supervised groups in improving patient-oriented function (SMD = -0.08, p = 0.57) or balance control (SMD = -0.11, p = 0.35). These findings provide preliminary evidence that home-based exercise may improve patient-oriented function and balance control among individuals with CAI, with effects appearing comparable to supervised exercise. However, findings are based on limited studies with low-certainty evidence and substantial heterogeneity. Well-designed randomized controlled trials are warranted to confirm these findings and establish optimal implementation.		[Liu, Yanhao; Harithasan, Deepashini; Singh, Devinder Kaur Ajit] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Hlth Sci, Ctr Hlth Ageing & Wellness, Kuala Lumpur 50300, Malaysia; [Liu, Yanhao; Song, Qipeng; Wang, Qi; Zhang, Xinmeng; Shen, Peixin] Shandong Sport Univ, Coll Sports & Hlth, Jinan 250102, Peoples R China; [Wang, Qi] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Sports Human Sci, Biomech Lab, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Singh, Devinder Kaur Ajit] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Hlth Sci, Ctr Hlth Ageing & Wellness, Kuala Lumpur 50300, Malaysia								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001677649400001	32	Article; Article		
J	Schuck, Tizian; Siener, Maximilian								How to compare physical fitness when different tests are performed. A cross-sectional study on conversion formulas of common test items for young children								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251407995				2026	Background: Physical fitness tests are crucial for evaluating athletic development and health in children. However, methodological variations in standardized test batteries (e.g., different strength test durations) hinder comparisons between studies. Despite the widespread use, conversion formulas remain largely unexplored. This study aimed to develop conversion formulas between commonly used physical fitness tests in children, focusing on strength, speed, and flexibility. Methods: A sample of 878 primary schoolchildren (age: 8.3 +/- 0.6 years; 49.5% boys) performed ten physical fitness tests, comprising two tests for each of five different abilities: sprint speed (10 m/20 m), flexibility (standing-&-reach/sit-&-reach), throwing ability (with ball/shuttlecock), core strength (30 s/40 s Sit-ups), and upper limb strength (30 s/40 s Push-ups). Regression analyses (curve estimation) with multiple function types were employed to develop conversion formulas between corresponding test variations. Results: Significant gender differences were found in certain tests (p < 0.001, 0.3 <= d <= 1.1), resulting in the development of separate calculation formulas for males and females. Linear and quadratic models explained up to 99% of the variance for sprint, Push-up, and Sit-up tests. Quadratic models explained up to 84% of the variance for flexibility tests, whereas linear models explained up to 96% for throwing tests. Adding a constant term improved variance explanation only for flexibility tests. Discussion: The results indicate that simple extrapolations of sprint and strength values are unsuitable for converting test results. The proposed conversion formulas offer a more nuanced approach, potentially enabling comparisons between different test methods.		[Schuck, Tizian; Siener, Maximilian] Univ Bayreuth, BaySpo Bayreuth Ctr Sport Sci, Univ Str 30, D-95447 Bayreuth, Germany; [Schuck, Tizian] Univ Bayreuth, BaySpo Bayreuth Ctr Sport Sci, Univ Str 30, D-95447 Bayreuth, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001667612500001	47	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hydes, Sam; Strafford, Ben William; Rothwell, Martyn; Stone, Joseph; Davids, Keith; Otte, Fabian								A Department of Methodology: A feasible framework to integrate the applied practice of multidisciplinary support teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251409729				2026	High performance sport organisations employ multidisciplinary sport science teams to develop athlete preparation and performance. However, challenges have been identified with respect to cohesion, communication, integration, ineffective knowledge translation, role clarity, confusing language, and conflicting methodologies. A Department of Methodology (DoM) has been proposed as a conceptual framework seeking to address these issues. To move the DoM beyond conceptualisation towards professional practice, this study aimed to establish expert consensus for the implementation of a DoM within applied high performance contexts. Eighty professionals with expertise in multidisciplinary teams completed a three-round, online Delphi survey. In Round One, participants answered 16, open-ended questions across four categories: (1) Coordinating activity through shared principles and language; (2) Communicating coherent ideas; (3) Designing practice landscapes; and (4), General questions of feasibility. Results highlight the importance of building a shared language, establishing common principles, working collaboratively, facilitating continuous knowledge exchange, and designing practice tasks collaboratively. New knowledge is contributed for advancing conceptualisation of a DoM framework by exploring consensus on a range of theoretical- and practitioner-informed recommendations for the successful implementation of a DoM in high-performance sports organisations.		[Hydes, Sam] Auckland Univ Technol, Auckland, New Zealand; [Hydes, Sam; Strafford, Ben William; Stone, Joseph; Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Sheffield, England; [Rothwell, Martyn; Davids, Keith] Constraints Collect, Derby, England; [Hydes, Sam] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Collegiate Hall,Collegiate Crescent, Sheffield S10 2BP, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001667105200001	89	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Jo, Eunhye; Oh, Sang-Eun								Identifying and prioritizing selection indicators for elite women's badminton singles players: An analytic hierarchy process approach based on Delphi findings								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251410834				2026	Selecting elite youth athletes requires evaluating their current performance and future potential. In badminton, performance determinants differ according to event type and sex, making it essential to establish systematic evidence-based selection criteria. This study aimed to prioritize selection indicators for elite women's single badminton players using expert consensus through Analytic Hierarchy Process. Thirteen badminton experts participated in an Analytic Hierarchy Process survey to assess the relative importance of the indicators across three hierarchical levels. At the primary level, Anthropometric factors (0.58) ranked higher than Motor-performance factors (0.42). At the secondary level, Body Composition (0.47) was the highest within Anthropometric factors, whereas Physical strength (0.76) ranked highest in Motor-performance factors. At the tertiary level, Skeletal muscle mass (0.40), Thigh circumference (0.36), and Height (0.42) were prioritized for Anthropometric factors, whereas Agility (0.28) and Visual ability (0.63) were prioritized for Motor-performance factors. These findings provide objective, prioritized criteria for evaluating and selecting elite women's single players, supporting a more transparent and tailored identification process. This approach may serve as a foundation for developing selection systems that reflect event- and sex-specific demands in badminton.		[Jo, Eunhye] Korea Natl Univ Educ, Inst Sch Phys Educ, Cheongju, South Korea; [Oh, Sang-Eun] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Ctr Sports & Performance Analyt, Seoul 05541, South Korea; [Oh, Sang-Eun] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Ctr Sports & Performance Analyt, Seoul 05541, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001667107200001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Steinberg, Nili; Elbaz, Liav; Eliakim, Alon; Nemet, Dan; Dar, Gali								Tibial bone stress injuries, pubertal stage, bone properties and muscle strength in young competitive female gymnasts - Two years follow-up								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101888	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101888			MAR 2026	2026	Objectives: To examine the prevalence of young gymnasts with tibial bone-stress-injuries (BSIs) and its association with anthropometrics, pubertal-stage, bone properties, and muscle strength during two years. Study design: Follow-up. Setting: Gymnasium. Participants: 129 female competitive gymnasts (aged 11.6 +/- 1.8yrs). Main outcome measures: Gymnasts were clinically evaluated at baseline, after one-year (first follow-up) and after two-years (second follow-up) for BSIs, anthropometrics, training-volume, puberty, bone-status, and musclestrength. Results: Prevalence of BSIs was significantly higher in pre-pubertal (64.7 %) compared to entering-puberty (30.9 %) and late-pubertal gymnasts (4.4 %) (p = 0.032). Tibial-strength and muscle-strength were significantly higher in gymnasts with no-BSIs compared with those with >= 2 episodes of BSIs (p <0.001 and p < 0.05, respectively). Significant interactions (timeXBSIs) were found for bone-status (F(2, 254) = 4.296, p = 0.015), and for plantarflexors and knee-extensors muscle-strength (p = 0.019 and p = 0.002, respectively). Nominal-regression showed that reduced tibial-strength, reduced plantar-flexors, pre-puberty and entering-puberty differentiated between participants with >= 2 episodes of BSIs and non-injured (p < 0.05). Conclusions: Pre-pubertal gymnasts had the highest prevalence of clinical-BSIs compared with entering-puberty and late-pubertal gymnasts. Reduced tibial-strength, reduced muscle-strength, and being pre- or enteringpuberty were parameters associated with BSIs in two or three of the assessments. Screening gymnasts from young age and implementing injury-prevention programs may reduce bone injuries.		[Steinberg, Nili; Elbaz, Liav] Acad Coll Levinsky Wingate, Wingate Campus, Netanya, Israel; [Elbaz, Liav; Dar, Gali] Univ Haifa, Fac Social Welf & Hlth Studies, Dept Phys Therapy, Haifa, Israel; [Eliakim, Alon; Nemet, Dan] Tel Aviv Univ, Child Hlth & Sport Ctr, Meir Med Ctr, Sackler Sch Med,Pediat, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Steinberg, Nili] Acad Coll Levinsky Wingate, Wingate Campus, Netanya, Israel								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001677029100001	57	Article; Article		
J	Jo, Minsik; Pyun, Do Young; Piggin, Joe								Development and validation of a scale for consumer beliefs about esports sponsorship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-08-2025-0403				2026	Purpose The current study aims to conceptualise belief dimensions about esports sponsorship and to develop a reliable and valid scale for measuring these beliefs.Design/methodology/approach Drawing on established theories and prior literature, the study first conceptualised a seven-dimensional belief framework. An initial item pool was developed and subjected to content validity, face validity and Q-sort test. Data were collected from 295 Korean esports consumers for exploratory factor analysis (EFA), followed by confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) with another sample of 315 respondents from the same population.Findings EFA supported seven belief dimensions: economic benefit, hedonism/pleasure, technological advancement, inclusivity, commercialism, annoyance/irritation and waste of money. CFA demonstrated satisfactory model fit, internal consistency, convergent validity and discriminant validity. As a result, a 42-item scale of beliefs about esports sponsorship was developed.Originality/value The study presents the first validated scale specifically tailored to measure beliefs about esports sponsorship. The scale provides researchers and practitioners with a robust tool to assess the consumer beliefs about esports sponsorship and lays a foundation for future research.		[Jo, Minsik; Pyun, Do Young; Piggin, Joe] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Jo, Minsik] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001665079100001	63	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wu, Shuyuan; Zhang, Huaxing; Ren, Zhe; Luo, Teng; Wang, Xiangyu; Zhang, Guojie; Zhan, Genghao; Wu, Hao								An examination of the correlation between antagonist coactivation of the abdomen and rotational kinematics in skilled golfers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2025.2611893				2026	The objective was to examine how phase-specific abdominal antagonist co-activation (CoA) influences trunk rotational kinematics in skilled golfers. Thirty male amateurs (19.7 +/- 0.7 years; handicap 9.6 +/- 2.4) performed 6 iron swings with synchronised motion capture and surface electromyography of the external obliques (EO). Pearson correlations and linear regression were applied. CoA showed distinct phase-dependent effects. During take-away, higher CoA correlated with greater peak pelvic velocity (r = 0.460; r2 = 0.21), indicating stabilising function. Early downswing CoA was negatively associated with X-factor at impact (r = -0.516; r2 = 0.26) and peak pelvic velocity (r = -0.540; r2 = 0.29), suggesting that reduced CoA facilitates proximal acceleration and elastic energy transfer. During downswing acceleration, CoA positively predicted peak thoracic velocity (r = 0.397; r2 = 0.15) and thoracic deceleration (r = 0.450; r2 = 0.20), reflecting a dual role in energy transfer and active braking. Early follow-through CoA was positively associated with thoracic deceleration (r = 0.440; r2 = 0.19), supporting post-impact trunk control. These findings suggest that skilled golfers modulate EO CoA across swing phases to balance stability, energy transfer and controlled segmental deceleration, highlighting the functional significance of abdominal CoA for swing performance and injury prevention.		[Wu, Shuyuan; Ren, Zhe; Luo, Teng; Zhan, Genghao; Wu, Hao] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wu, Shuyuan; Ren, Zhe; Wu, Hao] Gen Adm Sport China, Comprehens Key Lab Sports Abil Evaluat & Res, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wu, Shuyuan; Ren, Zhe; Wu, Hao] Key Lab Sports Funct Assessment & Tech Anal, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Huaxing] City Univ Petaling Jaya, Fac Educ & Liberal Studies, Petaling Jaya, Malaysia; [Wang, Xiangyu] Capital Normal Univ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Guojie] Hebei Sport Univ, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, Peoples R China; [Wu, Hao] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wu, Hao] Gen Adm Sport China, Comprehens Key Lab Sports Abil Evaluat & Res, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wu, Hao] Key Lab Sports Funct Assessment & Tech Anal, Beijing, Peoples R China								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001664916600001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sweeney, Gary; McArdle, Siobhain; Logue, Danielle; Costello, Nessan; Collins, Kieran								Exploring the prevalence of eating disorders, low sex drive, and exercise compulsion among professional and non-professional elite male Rugby union players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251412343				2026	Rugby union exhibits large variations in the idealised player physical profiles across positions. The pursuit of physique ideals with limited professional support can influence eating disorder symptomology, exercise compulsion, and low sexual drive. The primary aims were to (1) explore the prevalence of elite male rugby union players who are at risk for eating disorders, low sex drive, and exercise compulsion, and (2) explore the relationship between risk and players' professional status, weight, age, and playing position. A secondary aim was to explore the nutritional service support and dietary monitoring practices experienced by the players. Participants were recruited from four elite professional rugby union squads in Ireland. Players (>= tier3) over 18 years of age and training >= three times per week were eligible. Participants completed the eating disorder examination questionnaire, exercise addiction inventory, and sex drive section of the low energy availability in males questionnaire. Ninety-seven players participated in the study. The mean age of participants was 22 +/- 4 years. Eating disorder risk (9.3%), reported low sex drive (20.6%), and exercise compulsion (16.5%) was indicated. Players in the forwards position, regardless of professional status, reported higher eating concerns (p = 0.03). No significant difference was identified between professional status or position when determining sex drive. Access to a nutritionist (99%) and dietary monitoring practices (68%) was reported by players. Awareness of low sex drive and disordered eating in elite rugby should be encouraged, alongside access to professional nutritional support. Further research is needed to understand the contextual risk factors in male players.		[Sweeney, Gary; Collins, Kieran] Technol Univ Dublin, Sch Biol Hlth & Sports Sci, Tallaght Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Sweeney, Gary] Irish Rugby Football Union, Dept Nutr, Dublin, Ireland; [Sweeney, Gary] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [McArdle, Siobhain] Irish Rugby Football Union, Dept Psychol, Dublin, Ireland; [Logue, Danielle] Ulster Univ, Sch Sport, Derry Londonderry, North Ireland; [Logue, Danielle] Sport Ireland Inst, Dublin, Ireland; [Costello, Nessan] Leeds Beckett Univ, Sch Sport, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Sweeney, Gary] Technol Univ Dublin, Sch Biol Hlth & Sports Sci, Tallaght Campus, Dublin, Ireland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001662521200001	54	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Belcher, Suzanne; Overmayer, Ryan; van der Merwe, Frans; Foster, Amanda; Cavanagh, Barry								Effects of ball position on landing mechanics after completing a 180-degree jump in female netball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251411069				2026	Netball presents a high incidence of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries, with evidence suggesting that catching a ball overhead, and lowering it below the pelvis, may exacerbate injury risk. This study investigated the biomechanical effects of ball position on landing mechanics during a 180 degrees rotational countermovement jump. Sixteen female participants (mean age: 17 +/- 1 years; height: 167 +/- 5.87 cm; weight: 74 +/- 17.57 kg) performed jump-landing tasks while holding a ball in four conditions: Down towards the leading limb (Down Leading), trailing limb (Down Trailing), chest-height, and centrally low. Portable VALD force plates and dual-plane video captured landing kinetics and kinematics. Variables included rate of force development (RFD) (N/s/cm), impulse (N.s/cm), and peak vertical ground reaction force (PvGRF) (N/cm), normalised to jump height. Repeated-measures ANOVAs with post hoc tests and Greenhouse-Geisser/Bonferroni corrections determined significance. The Trail limb exhibited consistently higher RFD (1158.17 N/s/cm) and PvGRF (97.55 N/cm) compared to leading (1012.84 N/s/cm, 90.49 N/cm), possibly due to participants braking with their trailing limb when rotating clockwise. Impulse did not differ significantly across conditions. Video analysis suggested low ball positions may have increased valgus knee collapse, trunk rotation, wider landing stance, and temporary loss of balance that required saving actions. A high incidence of failed jumps in moderately experienced (similar to 8yrs of exposure) players indicates potential need for further training of controlled jump rotation actions. Similarly, the findings highlight the importance of bilateral turning training to mitigate asymmetrical loading and indicates avoiding excessively low-ball positions, which may affect trunk control and balance.		[Belcher, Suzanne; Cavanagh, Barry] Waikato Inst Technol Wintec, Ctr Hlth & Social Practice, Physiotherapy Dept, Waikato, New Zealand; [Overmayer, Ryan] Univ Auckland, Dept Exercise Sci, Physiotherapy Practice, Auckland, New Zealand; [van der Merwe, Frans] Waikato Inst Technol Wintec, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Waikato, New Zealand; [Foster, Amanda; Cavanagh, Barry] Act Hlth, Waikato, New Zealand; [Belcher, Suzanne] 1-30 Akehurst Ave, Auckland 0600, New Zealand								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001661571100001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Miyazawa, Taiki; Okamoto, Ichiyo; Ichikawa, Daisuke								Can VR replace the ball? Evaluating the role of virtual training in soccer heading development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251413081				2026	This randomized controlled study aimed to investigate the effects of different heading training modalities-virtual reality (VR), soccer ball, lightweight ball, and their combinations-on heading accuracy and strength. A total of 64 participants were randomly assigned to five groups and underwent one session per week of heading training over an 8-week period. Heading accuracy and ball flight distance (proxy of heading strength) were assessed before and after the intervention. The VR, soccer ball, and combined (VR + soccer ball) groups demonstrated significant improvements in heading accuracy, whereas no such improvement was observed in the lightweight ball and control groups. In contrast, ball flight distance increased only in the soccer ball and combined groups. Neither VR nor lightweight ball training alone led to significant gains in ball flight distance. These findings suggest that VR training is effective for enhancing technical accuracy in a low-risk environment, but physical ball contact remains essential for developing power-related aspects of heading. The combined training group exhibited the most balanced improvements, highlighting the value of integrating perceptual-cognitive training with real-world physical feedback. This study provides evidence for the selective benefits of VR-based training and supports its implementation as a complementary tool within youth soccer development programs.		[Miyazawa, Taiki] Shigakkan Univ, Fac Wellness, Dept Sports & Phys Educ, 55 Nakoyama, Obu, Japan; [Okamoto, Ichiyo] Shigakkan Univ, Grad Sch Wellness, Obu, Japan; [Ichikawa, Daisuke] Toyo Univ, Fac Sci & Engn, Dept Civil & Environm Engn, 2100 Kujirai, Kawagoe, Japan; [Miyazawa, Taiki] Shigakkan Univ, Fac Wellness, Dept Sports & Phys Educ, 55 Nakoyama, Obu, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001661574100001	27	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Larsen, Marie Lind; Saether, Stig Arve; Whitehead, Amy; Hoigaard, Rune								Team trust in professional women's cycling teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251413089				2026	The purpose of this study was to explore professional female cyclists' understanding and experience of team trust in road cycling, with a focus on the factors that contribute to the development and maintenance of trust, and furthermore the consequences of team trust for the team. Based on a qualitative research design, semi-structured interviews were conducted with ten female riders with experience from various continental teams. The data were analyzed using reflexive thematic analysis with an abductive approach, grounded in a critical realist epistemology. The study aims to address a gap in the literature, as team trust in professional sports remains underexplored, despite its documented importance for collaboration and performance in teams. The results showed team trust to be a relational and multidimensional phenomenon, shaped by assessments of individual characteristics, as well as relational and structural team factors. Furthermore, the results indicate that key antecedents of team trust encompass both individual attributes and team level factors, which together generate a range of positive outcomes for interpersonal relationships, team processes, and overall performance.		[Larsen, Marie Lind; Saether, Stig Arve; Hoigaard, Rune] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol NTNU, Dept Sociol & Polit Sci, Trondheim, Norway; [Whitehead, Amy] Liverpool John Moores Univ Sport & Exercise Sci, Sch Sports & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Hoigaard, Rune] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway; [Hoigaard, Rune] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway; [Hoigaard, Rune] Univ Agder, Univ Veien 25, N-4630 Kristiansand, Norway								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001661159700001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Johansen, Jan-Michael; Mandelid, Mathias Brekke; Reinboth, Michael; Resaland, Geir Kare; Bratland-Sanda, Solfrid								Pupils' Whole-School Physical Activity Behavior Reconsidered: A Descriptive Case-Study of Real-World Practices								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2025.2599881				2026	Examples of sustained whole-school approaches (WSA) to physical activity (PA) from real-world school practice can broaden our understanding of how much in-school PA can be expected in such approaches. This study aimed to describe PA opportunities provided within a WSA, and the correspondent PA behavior in pupils. Pupils from 2nd, 7th, and 9th grade (n = 57, 47.7% girls) from two case schools with an embedded WSA were recruited. Schools were located in the southeastern part of Norway. Pupils wore waist-worn accelerometers for 10 consecutive school days. Weekly schedules and descriptive field notes was used to describe PA opportunities, and conversations with teachers ensured valid data. Various PA opportunities were conducted daily. Organized PA was conducted in recess every day, physical education was led by qualified teachers in 1-2 lessons pr. week, and physically active learning was used as a teaching method 3-6 times pr. week. On average, 23.4 +/- 9.7 min of school days was spent in moderate-to-vigorous intensity PA (MVPA), with differences among classes (26.2 +/- 6.7, 31.5 +/- 10.7, and 17.5 +/- 6.6 min in 2nd, 7th, and 9th grade, respectively). On average, 22.8% of pupils reached 30 minutes of daily in-school MVPA. Case schools had seven years of experience in conducting a WSA with several PA opportunities. Despite this extensive work, only similar to 23% of pupils reached recommended amounts of in-school MVPA. This descriptive case study provides a reality check on WSA in school and its impact on children's MVPA behavior, and revealing what they look like in practice, not only in theory.		[Johansen, Jan-Michael; Reinboth, Michael; Bratland-Sanda, Solfrid] Univ South Eastern Norway, Notodden, Norway; [Mandelid, Mathias Brekke; Resaland, Geir Kare] Western Norway Univ Appl Sci, Haugesund, Norway; [Johansen, Jan-Michael] Univ South Eastern Norway, Fac Humanities Sports & Educ Sci, Dept Sports Phys Educ & Outdoor Studies, Gullbringvegen 36, N-3800 Bo, Norway								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001662088500001	63	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dutaillis, Benjamin; Collings, Tyler; Bellinger, Philip; Timmins, Ryan G.; Williams, Morgan D.; Carey, David L.; Bourne, Mathew N.								Five vertical jump metrics provide a comprehensive assessment of recovery following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101897	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.101897			MAR 2026	2026	Objectives: To identify and compare the unique physical qualities measured during vertical jump testing in individuals following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR), and explore how these qualities change over time. Design: Longitudinal, cohort study. Participants: Thirty participants completed testing at 6-, 9-, and 12-months following primary ACLR. Main outcomes: Vertical ground reaction forces during single and double leg countermovement jumps (CMJ) and drop vertical jumps (DVJ) were recorded using dual force platforms. Sparse principal component analyses were conducted, and linear mixed models were used to explore how principal component (PC) scores changed over time. Results: Five PCs were identified in both limbs: PC1) force/impulse/power, PC2) contraction time, PC3) concentric velocity/jump height, PC4) contact time/depth, and PC5) eccentric peak velocity. Scores for PC1, PC3 and PC5 increased over time, while PC4 decreased (P < 0.001). Scores for PC1, PC3 and PC5 were lower in the reconstructed limb compared to the uninjured contralateral limb (P < 0.001) and displayed a reduction in between-limb asymmetry over time (P < 0.05). Conclusions: Considerable redundancies are present in conventional vertical jump testing practices used during ACLR rehabilitation. Testing batteries could likely be refined to one or two jump types and a small subset of metrics without loss of meaningful information.		[Dutaillis, Benjamin] Univ Newcastle, Sch Biomed Sci & Pharm, Newcastle, Australia; [Dutaillis, Benjamin; Collings, Tyler; Bellinger, Philip; Williams, Morgan D.; Bourne, Mathew N.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sport & Social Work, Gold Coast Campus, Gold Coast, Australia; [Dutaillis, Benjamin; Collings, Tyler; Bourne, Mathew N.] Griffith Univ, Australian Ctr Precis Hlth & Technol PRECISE, Gold Coast Campus, Gold Coast, Australia; [Bellinger, Philip] Griffith Univ, Griffith Sport Sci, Gold Coast Campus, Gold Coast, Australia; [Timmins, Ryan G.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Timmins, Ryan G.] Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Brisbane, Australia; [Williams, Morgan D.] VALD, Brisbane, Australia; [Carey, David L.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Dutaillis, Benjamin] Univ Newcastle, Univ Dr, Callaghan, NSW, Australia								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001690066500001	20	Article; Article		
J	Donahue, Paul T.; Moore, Juliana; Peel, Shelby A.; Oglesby, Leslie								Positional comparison of countermovement jump performance in American collegiate football athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251410902				2026	Purpose: The purpose of this investigation was to examine countermovement jump differences between positional groups in American football. Methods: 85 Division I collegiate football players were assigned to one of three groups (lineman = 32, midskill = 29, skill = 24). Each participant performed three CMJ trials using a portable force platform. A one-way analysis of variance was performed on all variables of interest. An a priori significance level of p < 0.05 was used for all analysis. Results: Significant differences were present across all three groups for jump height (p < 0.01) and RSImod (p < 0.001) with the skill group having the highest values and the linemen having the lowest. Inversely, take-off momentum and body mass were the greatest in the linemen group with the lowest being the skill group (p < 0.001). Linemen had longer duration in the propulsive phase (p < 0.01), braking phase (p < 0.01), and time to take off (p < 0.01). Conclusions: The differences between groups can aid in the design of training programs targeting specific traits for each positional group. Additionally, differences in positional metrics of interest may exist when using the CMJ to monitor fatigue status over the course of a competitive season.		[Donahue, Paul T.; Moore, Juliana] Univ Southern Mississippi, Sch Kinesiol & Nutr, 369 Joseph Greene Hall,118 Coll Dr, Hattiesburg, MS 39406 USA; [Peel, Shelby A.] Univ Memphis, Dept Exercise Sport & Movement Sci, Memphis, TN USA; [Oglesby, Leslie] Univ Southern Mississippi, Sch Rehabil Sci, Hattiesburg, MS 39406 USA; [Donahue, Paul T.] Univ Southern Mississippi, Sch Kinesiol & Nutr, 369 Joseph Greene Hall,118 Coll Dr, Hattiesburg, MS 39406 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001658435700001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Nong, Xin; Huang, Weijing								Bargaining with a Deadline: Evidence from the NBA								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	3			283	308		10.1177/15270025251409666			APR 2026	2026	Theoretical models show that reputational concerns provide a natural explanation for "deadline effects," characterized by a surge of agreements reached just before a deadline in bargaining. This paper provides empirical evidence for this claim using a novel dataset on deadline trades from 30 National Basketball Association (NBA) teams between 2000 and 2024. The NBA imposes a publicly known deadline, after which teams cannot trade players for the remainder of the season. Our analysis reveals a statistically significant negative relationship between general managers' tenure and the likelihood of making deadline trades, controlling for age and team performance. This pattern suggests that new managers, seeking to establish reputations as tough negotiators, are more likely to hold firm until the deadline. We also find that while 58 percent of deadline trades involve important assets, they have no systematic effect on subsequent team performance.		[Nong, Xin] Hitotsubashi Univ, Tokyo, Japan; [Huang, Weijing] Waseda Univ, Waseda, Japan; [Nong, Xin] Hitotsubashi Univ, Tokyo, Japan								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001657161000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Ohji, Shunsuke; Aizawa, Jun-ya								Test-retest reliability of dual-task cost in neurocognitive single-leg hop and countermovement jump tests								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101886	10.1016/j.ptsp.2026.01.001			MAR 2026	2026	Objective: To examine test-retest reliability of single-leg anterior hop (SLH) and countermovement jump (SCMJ) with a simple visual reaction-time stimulus (LED illumination), and reliability of dual-task cost (DTC) in healthy adults. Design: Cross-sectional reliability study. Setting: Controlled university laboratory. Participants: Twenty-nine college students (14 females, 15 males; 21.4 +/- 1.0 years). Methods: Participants completed two sessions 14-21 d apart. Reliability for SLH, neurocognitive SLH (N-SLH), SCMJ, neurocognitive SCMJ (N-SCMJ), reaction time, and DTC was assessed using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC3,1), standard error of measurement (SEM), and minimal detectable change (MDC). Bland-Altman analysis examined fixed and proportional bias. Results: SLH distance and SCMJ height showed excellent test-retest reliability (ICC = 0.93-0.96), and reaction time showed good reliability (ICC = 0.79-0.85). DTC reliability was moderate for SLH (ICC = 0.51) and poor for SCMJ (ICC = 0.49). Bland-Altman analysis identified fixed bias for N-SCMJ height and proportional bias for SLH DTC. Conclusion: Single-leg hop/jump performance and reaction time under a simple visual reaction-time stimulus were reproducible across sessions; however, DTC showed moderate-poor reliability. Interpretation of the proposed DTC <= 10 % threshold should be guided by SEM and MDC estimates, particularly for values near the threshold and when proportional bias is present.		[Ohji, Shunsuke; Aizawa, Jun-ya] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 3-2-12 Hongo,Bunkyo Ku, Tokyo 1130033, Japan; [Ohji, Shunsuke] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 3-2-12 Hongo,Bunkyo Ku, Tokyo 1130033, Japan								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001666791000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Ceylan, Bayram; Taskin, Hasan Basri; Kobas Tepe, Ilknur; Balci, Sukru Serdar								Fluid-balance challenges in Para judo athletes with visual impairment despite adequate hydration knowledge								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	3			192	199		10.1080/00913847.2025.2612466			MAY 4 2026	2026	Objectives: Although it has been well documented that judo athletes from different competitive levels often exhibit inadequate hydration status, studies investigating the hydration habits of Paralympic judo athletes with visual impairment are scarce. Thus, this study examined urine-based hydration indicators and hydration-related behaviors of para judo athletes. Methods: Twelve judo athletes (6 women and 6 men) with visual impairment from the national Paralympic judo team voluntarily participated in the study. Athletes' hydration status was assessed through urine specific gravity (USG), urine color (UC), and body weight (BW) changes over 24 hours, monitored at six time points. Additionally, athletes' hydration knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors were evaluated using a hydration survey administered in an accessible format. Results: At rest, USG remained stable across measurement points (F3,33 = 1.11; p = 0.36), while urine color increased following both training sessions. The evening judo training session induced a significant increase in USG (p = 0.009), whereas morning training had no effect. Body weight decreased significantly after both training sessions (p < 0.001), but overall 24-hour body mass remained stable (p > 0.05). Athletes demonstrated high levels of hydration knowledge (68.5%) and attitudes (70.2%), but only moderate hydration behaviors (62.2%). No significant associations were observed between survey scores and urine-based hydration markers (p > 0.05). Conclusions: These findings indicate that Para judo athletes with visual impairment experience persistent challenges in maintaining day-to-day fluid balance despite adequate theoretical knowledge. Therefore, accessible, behavior-oriented hydration strategies and structured monitoring approaches should be developed for this underrepresented group, with active involvement of coaches and nutrition professionals.		[Ceylan, Bayram; Taskin, Hasan Basri] Kastamonu Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Kastamonu, Turkiye; [Kobas Tepe, Ilknur] Trakya Univ, Kirkpinar Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Edirne, Turkiye; [Balci, Sukru Serdar] Selcuk Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Konya, Turkiye; [Ceylan, Bayram] Kastamonu Univ, Fac Sport Sci, TR-37150 Kastamonu, Turkiye								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001655126200001	55	Article; Article		
J	Prieto-Lage, Ivan; Crespo, Miguel; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Reguera-Lopez-de-la-Osa, Xoana; Silva-Pinto, Antonio Jose; Gutierrez-Santiago, Alfonso								Serve dynamics and tactical trends in elite U-14 girls' tennis: A case study from the Les Petits as tournament								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251411829				2026	This study aimed to analyze the tactical patterns employed by elite U-14 female tennis players during the 2023 Les Petits As tournament, as a case study, focusing on singles matches from the quarterfinals to the final. Using a structured observational methodology and the OBSTENNIS-JUNIOR-S23 instrument, 837 points were coded and analyzed through LINCE PLUS and THEME 6 Edu software. Descriptive results revealed a predominant use of first serves (70%) and a preference for targeting the body zone (43.2%). Short rallies (0-4 shots) were most frequent (38%). Overall, 57% of points ended with a final shot from behind the baseline, and 56% concluded with a forehand. Unforced errors were the leading cause of point conclusions, particularly with balls going beyond the baseline (24.7%). Inferential analyses showed no significant differences between deuce and advantage sides in serve patterns or outcomes. These results suggest that, at U-14, the serve primarily functions as a rally starter rather than a direct-scoring weapon, although placement and early rally control remain influential in shaping point outcomes. Limitations include the narrow sample scope and lack of longitudinal data; future research should expand to diverse contexts and incorporate developmental trajectories. The findings provide practical implications for training while contributing to a more gender-inclusive understanding of tactical development in junior tennis. Practical implications include prioritizing serve placement variability and early point control (serve+1) under competition-like constraints in U-14 girls' training.		[Prieto-Lage, Ivan; Reguera-Lopez-de-la-Osa, Xoana; Silva-Pinto, Antonio Jose; Gutierrez-Santiago, Alfonso] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport, Observat Res Grp, Pontevedra, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dev Dept, London, England; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Valencia, Spain; [Prieto-Lage, Ivan] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport, Vigo, Spain; [Prieto-Lage, Ivan] Fac Ciencias Educ Deporte, Campus Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001656270600001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Braun, Claudia; Fischer, Sebastian; Hueffmeier, Joachim								Peak performance: Participating in intergroup competitions facilitates extraordinary performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251406242				2026	This study examines peak performance by focusing on intergroup competitions. It is hypothesized that athletes would show their best ever performance in intergroup competitions more often than in interindividual competitions due to effort gains evoked by performing in a team. Using archival data, the performance of swimmers is analyzed because swimming offers highly standardized competitions and thus allows comparability of the performances in intergroup (or relay) and interindividual competitions. However, to draw clear conclusions, it is necessary to consider a possible relay start benefit. Based on unrelated video footage (N = 80 swimmers) this benefit was estimated. To test the hypothesis, the N = 100 fastest 100 m individual freestyle performances (of the 50 fastest male and 50 fastest female swimmers starting at Olympic Games and World Championships) from the years 2000 to 2019 were compared to the fastest relay split times from 4 x 100 m freestyle races of the same swimmers. The results showed that significantly more swimmers than would be expected by chance (n = 68, n = 36 females) had their best ever performance in a relay rather than in an individual race. Importantly, this result holds (for n = 65, n = 35 females) when controlling for a possible relay start benefit. Thus, most swimmers show their all-time peak performance in intergroup competitions by outperforming their best ever achieved times from individual competitions.		[Braun, Claudia; Fischer, Sebastian] Univ Kassel, Inst Sports & Sport Sci, Kassel, Germany; [Hueffmeier, Joachim] TU Dortmund Univ, Inst Psychol, Dortmund, Germany; [Hueffmeier, Joachim] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway; [Braun, Claudia] Univ Kassel, Damaschkestr 25, D-34121 Kassel, Hessen, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001656281000001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ruf, Ludwig; Backfisch, Marco; Haertel, Sascha; Altmann, Stefan								"Do fast players remain fast and slow players remain slow?" Long-term development of maximal sprinting speed in highly trained U12 to U19 soccer players over an 8-year period								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251410449				2026	The aims of this study were to investigate MSS development in highly trained male U12 to U19 soccer players by i) describing the absolute maximal sprinting speed (MSS) by age group, ii) assessing changes in players' relative MSS development across consecutive age groups, and iii) analysing the long-term stability of MSS over an 8-year period.Using a mixed-longitudinal design, we collected data from 475 players (n = 1042 datapoints). MSS was determined from the average velocity in the 20-30 m interval of a 30 m linear sprint. Percentile values were assigned to every MSS and players were classified into six performance groups based on their percentile value. The number of players moving up, down, or remaining in the same performance group across consecutive age groups was calculated. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC; 3,1) were computed to assess the long-term stability.MSS improved consistently from U12 to U19, with the greatest improvements observed between the U14 to U16. Overall, more players transitioned to a slower performance group (41%) than remained in the same (34%) or moved to a faster group (25%) across consecutive age groups. Long-term stability of players' percentile values was moderate between consecutive age groups (ICCs 0.61 to 0.79) and the entire sample (ICC = 0.65, 95% CI (0.57 to 0.73)).Our findings highlight the general stability of MSS performance throughout adolescence, although they challenge the general notion that fast players always remain fast and slow players always remain slow. This information helps coaches to appropriately interpret current and potential future sprint performance for talent evaluation and selection purposes in soccer.		[Ruf, Ludwig; Backfisch, Marco; Altmann, Stefan] TSG ResearchLab gGmbH, Horrenberger Str 58, D-74939 Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Ruf, Ludwig; Haertel, Sascha] TSG 1899 Hoffenheim, Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Altmann, Stefan] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Karlsruhe, Germany; [Ruf, Ludwig] TSG ResearchLab gGmbH, Horrenberger Str 58, D-74939 Zuzenhausen, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001656278100001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Watanabe, Takahiro; Kuroyanagi, Eiichi; Furusawa, Hinata; Tsutsumi, Masahiro; Numasawa, Shun; Kudo, Shintarou								Identifying factors associated with proprioceptive impairment in individuals after lateral ankle sprain: a cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				78						101885	10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.12.007			MAR 2026	2026	Objective: To investigate the validity of a stretch strain sensor-based circumduction reproduction test and identify factors associated with foot-ankle proprioceptive dysfunction in individuals with a history of lateral ankle sprain. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: Seven copers and 18 patients with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Main outcome measure: The circumduction reproduction test measured absolute error between eyes-open and eyes-closed conditions as an indicator of proprioception during ankle circumduction. Absolute errors in the sensor, shank-rearfoot and rearfoot-midfoot relative angles were measured using a three-dimensional motion analysis system. An independent t-test was used to compare errors between groups. Pearson's correlations were calculated to identify factors contributing to absolute errors, including foot joint variables, anterior displacement, subtalar joint excursion, and weight-bearing lunge test. Results: The CAI group showed significantly greater sensor error (p = 0.025). The sensor errors significantly correlated with shank-rearfoot (r = 0.698) and rearfoot-midfoot (r = 0.760) errors. The sensor error was significantly associated with subtalar joint excursion (r = 0.667) and weight-bearing lunge test (r =-0.528). Conclusions: The circumduction reproduction test using the stretch strain sensor enables accurate evaluation of proprioceptive impairments, with absolute errors associated with subtalar joint excursion and weight-bearing lunge test.		[Watanabe, Takahiro; Furusawa, Hinata; Tsutsumi, Masahiro; Numasawa, Shun; Kudo, Shintarou] Morinomiya Univ Med Sci, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, 1-26-16 Nankokita,Suminoe Ku, Osaka, Osaka 5598611, Japan; [Watanabe, Takahiro; Kuroyanagi, Eiichi; Tsutsumi, Masahiro; Numasawa, Shun; Kudo, Shintarou] Morinomiya Univ Med Sci, Inclus Med Sci Res Inst, 1-26-16 Nankokita,Suminoe Ku, Osaka, Osaka 5598611, Japan; [Watanabe, Takahiro] Morinomiya Univ Med Sci, Osaka Bay Clin, 1-26-16 Nankokita,Suminoe Ku, Osaka, Osaka 5598611, Japan; [Tsutsumi, Masahiro; Numasawa, Shun; Kudo, Shintarou] Morinomiya Univ Med Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 1-26-16 Nankokita,Suminoe Ward, Osaka, Osaka 5598611, Japan; [Kudo, Shintarou] Morinomiya Univ Med Sci, Inclus Med Sci Res Inst, 1-26-16 Nankokita,Suminoe Ku, Osaka, Osaka 5598611, Japan								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001663653200001	36	Article; Article		
J	Oliveira, Eduardo; Fernandes, Orlando; Goncalves, Bruno; Vieira, Milena; Ruben, Rui B.; Miranda-Oliveira, Paulo								The application of principal component analysis to distinguish the kinematics parameters of hammer throw technique among athletes of varying levels participating in the European Throwing Cup for the years 2018 and 2022								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	6			950	970		10.1080/14763141.2025.2600401			JUN 3 2026	2026	The hammer throw is a complex discipline event in track and field sports, where Principal Component Analysis (PCA) has been applied as a key tool to analyse the details of movement patterns and identify crucial factors that affect performance. Therefore, this study aimed to use the PCA to analyse the hammer technique considering the age and performance. Thirty-nine male and thirty-two female hammer throwers who competed in the European Throwing Cup in 2018 and 2022 participated in the study. Three-dimensional kinematic analysis was used to process temporal and kinematic parameters associated with the hammer technique. The best throw from each athlete was chosen for analysis. The PCA facilitated the reduction and connection of the analysed parameters. In both groups except women U23, we observed higher correlations in velocity increase, hammer amplitude, and timing variables (double support, single support, and total time) in Turn 4. Lastly, differentiation factors were identified for each group. It was observed that a low initial velocity during Turn 1 was common in both men's and women's categories. Under 23 men should minimise the single support in Turn 2, and women should improve the velocity increase in Turn 4 to increase throw performance.		[Oliveira, Eduardo] Ctr High Performance Jamor, Sports Med & Exercise Physiol Unit, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal; [Oliveira, Eduardo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal; [Fernandes, Orlando; Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Sports & Hlth Dept, Hlth & Human Dev, Evora, Portugal; [Fernandes, Orlando; Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, FPF Acad, Oeiras, Portugal; [Vieira, Milena; Ruben, Rui B.; Miranda-Oliveira, Paulo] Polytech Inst Leiria, Sch Technol & Management, ESTG, Leiria, Portugal; [Vieira, Milena] Univ Coimbra, Dept Mech Engn, SEG CEMMPRE, Coimbra, Portugal; [Vieira, Milena; Ruben, Rui B.] Polytech Inst Leiria, Ctr Rapid & Sustainable Prod Dev, Leiria, Portugal; [Miranda-Oliveira, Paulo] Portuguese Athlet Federat, Biomech Sports & Performance Dept, Oeiras, Portugal; [Miranda-Oliveira, Paulo] Egas Moniz Ctr Interdisciplinary Res CiiEM, Egas Moniz Sch Hlth & Sci, Almada, Portugal; [Oliveira, Eduardo] Ctr High Performance Jamor, Sports Med & Exercise Physiol Unit, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal; [Oliveira, Eduardo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001654233700001	21	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Martin, Victor; Sal-de-Rellan, Alejandro; Rodriguez-Fernandez, Alejandro								Demands and variability in free, restricted area, and positional role for small-sided games: Effects of presentation order within sessions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251408668				2026	The aim of this study was to assess the effects of different tactical setups in small-sided games on perceptual and locomotor demands, and to evaluate the impact of session timing (beginning vs. end) on variability within and between conditions. Twenty young soccer players participated in 3 small-sided games with 6 conditions: free roles (SSG(FREE)), positional tactical roles (SSG(POS)), and restricted areas (SSG(RA)), applied at the beginning and end of the session. Perceptual and locomotor responses were measured. All games were played in a 30 x 50 m area, and locomotor data were collected using GPS devices. SSG(FREE) resulted in lower RPE than positional formats, with higher RPE at the session's end in SSG(POS) and SSG(RA) (p < 0.05). Players in SSG(FREE )covered more TD than in positional setups, and SSG(POS) showed greater TD than SSG(RA) at the beginning (p < 0.05). VHSD was higher in SSG(POS), particularly at the session's end (p < 0.05). Higher TD, ACC, and VHSD were observed at the beginning of the session across all formats, with greater variability between sets (p < 0.05). Coaches should schedule free-play tasks early to reduce perceived effort and tactical drills later to increase intensity, fatigue, and variability.		[Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Martin, Victor; Rodriguez-Fernandez, Alejandro] Univ Pontificia Salamanca, PRENDE Res Grp Planning & Assessment Training Athl, Salamanca, Spain; [Martin, Victor] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Sal-de-Rellan, Alejandro] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Law Educ & Humanities, Dept Educ & Educ Innovat, Madrid, Spain; [Rodriguez-Fernandez, Alejandro] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain; [Rodriguez-Fernandez, Alejandro] Univ Leon, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, VALFIS Res Grp, Leon, Spain; [Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier] Univ Pontificia Salamanca, Res Grp Planning & Assessment ofTraining & Athlet, C Henry Collet,81-85, Salamanca 37007, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001655520800001	48	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Iwasaki, Ryo								Exploring models to optimise the prediction of interval times and step counts between hurdles in 400 m hurdles								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251408000				2026	The present study aimed to identify the optimal modelling method for predicting interval times and step counts between hurdles in 400 m hurdles. We obtained 337 data from previous studies and official race reports (mean race time: 49.31 +/- 1.09 s, range: 46.29-50.99 s). Due to missing step count data, 337 data were used for the time prediction and 229 data for the step count prediction. We evaluated three models: a hierarchical model, a generalised additive model, and a function-on-scalar model. Leave-one-out cross-validation was applied, and evaluation metrics (the mean squared error; MSE, mean absolute error; MAE, and coefficient of determination; R2) were calculated. The function-on-scalar regression exhibited the highest accuracy for interval time prediction (MSE: 0.006 +/- 0.003 s2, MAE: 0.060 +/- 0.016 s, R2: 0.610 +/- 0.140), whereas the hierarchical model exhibited the best accuracy for step count prediction (MSE: 0.134 +/- 0.041 step2, MAE: 0.292 +/- 0.041 step, R2: 0.661 +/- 0.107). This discrepancy may be attributed to the fundamental difference between interval times, continuous time-varying variables, and step counts, discrete count variables following a Poisson distribution, exhibiting distinct patterns of variation throughout the race. The present study provided fundamental insights into modelling for more accurate prediction of interval times and step counts between hurdles, based on the nature of the data.		[Iwasaki, Ryo] Hannan Univ, Fac Informat Sci, Matsubara, Japan; [Iwasaki, Ryo] Hannan Univ, Fac Informat Sci, Matsubara, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001652419300001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Da-Liang, Zhao; Yu, Zhou								Interaction between Perceived Autonomy Support and Sports Engagement of Athletes: A Cross Lag Regression Analysis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				309	319		10.5114/jhk/203026			JAN 2026	2026	To examine the relationship between perceived autonomy support and sports engagement among athletes, this study conducted a 6-month follow-up with 79 provincial team athletes, assessed over three time periods. The results were analyzed using latent variable growth models and cross-lagged regression analysis. The findings indicated that: (1) both perceived autonomy support and sports engagement exhibited a linear decline across the three measurement periods; (2) perceived autonomy support significantly predicted subsequent sports engagement, and sports engagement, in turn, significantly predicted later perceived autonomy support. However, in terms of stability, perceived autonomy support was a more consistent predictor of sports engagement. In summary, these findings reveal the dynamic interaction between athletes' perceived autonomy support and sports engagement, highlighting the crucial role of coaches' autonomy support in shaping athletes' engagement, as well as the reciprocal influence of athletes' engagement on the coaching style.		[Da-Liang, Zhao; Yu, Zhou] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Dept Sport & Hlth, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Da-Liang, Zhao] Guangdong Prov Key Lab Human Sports Performance Sc, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Yu, Zhou] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Dept Sport & Hlth, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300021	43	Article; Article		
J	Navarro, Enrique; Trinidad, Alfonso; Veiga, Santiago								Effects of Intrinsic and Orbital Angular Momentum on the Swimming Individual and Relay Starts Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				39	50		10.5114/jhk/202263			JAN 2026	2026	There is currently a lack of knowledge about the rotational component of competitive starting techniques using starting blocks equipped with an adjustable back plate and its effect on water entry. The aim of the present study was to examine the angular momentum components of the current competitive swimming starts and to compare the contribution of the body segments to the rotational component of the individual kick start and the relay step start techniques. The block and aerial starting movements of eleven competitive swimmers during an individual and relay start from an Omega OSB11 were filmed at 120 Hz. The total body and the segmental contributions to the intrinsic and orbital components of the angular momentum were computed. Regardless of the type of the start, the orbital rotation of the body segments around the swimmer's centre of mass accounted for a large proportion (between 89 and 91%) of the total angular momentum. At the take-off, the total angular momentum was greater in relay step starts than in individual kick starts (r12 = 0.71). However, the competitive swimmers showed larger lower limb entry angles during the individual kick start (291.5 +/- 1.8 degrees vs. 282.2 +/- 3.4 degrees), related to a greater segmental contribution of lower limbs (56.5% +/- 2.8) to the total angular momentum (r12 = 0.76). The adjustable back plate of the block provided a greater rotational component for the lower limbs in the individual kick start (compared to the relay step start), which assisted swimmers in achieving a better body posture at the water entry.		[Navarro, Enrique] Univ Politecn Madrid, Hlth & Human Performance Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Trinidad, Alfonso] Univ Europea Madrid, Educ & Educ Innovat Dept, AquaLab Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300004	23	Article; Article		
J	Martins, Francisco; Sliz, Maciej; Franca, Cintia; Sarmento, Hugo; Gouveia, Elvio Rubio; Campos, Pedro; Lopes, Helder; Przednowek, Krzysztof								Characterizing Psychomotor Abilities of Male Handball Players of Different Age Categories								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				281	291		10.5114/jhk/203954			JAN 2026	2026	Sports performance is highly influenced by players' mental, emotional, and psychomotor abilities. Particularly in handball, training methods aim to maximize players' performance by fusing physical conditioning with cognitive abilities. The aim of this research was twofold: (1) to characterize players' psychomotor abilities according to their age categories (U14, U16, and U18), and (2) to analyze the differences between psychomotor abilities profiles according to players' field positions. The study population comprised 75 male youth handball players (15.3 +/- 1.5 years) from different competitive age groups (U14 = 20 players; U16 = 27 players; U18 = 28 players). The psychomotor abilities were evaluated using the Test2Drive system. Three tests were performed to measure psychomotor abilities: (a) a simple reaction time test (SIRT), (b) a choice reaction time test (CHORT), and (c) a spatial anticipation test (SPANT). The only statistically significant difference was observed in the percentage of correct answers in the SPANT, showing that U16 players had a higher rate of correct answers than the others. However, some trends were visible throughout the analysis: (i) the U16 group performed better in terms of reaction time in all the tests, (ii) right-wingers were always the ones who had the best percentage of correct answers, and (iii) central players had the best movement time performance. Future research should include youth players' maturation stage, body composition, and physical fitness performance to characterize their profile deeply and analyze their psychomotor abilities, considering other factors that can impact their sports performance.		[Martins, Francisco; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Act CIDAF, Coimbra, Portugal; [Martins, Francisco; Franca, Cintia; Gouveia, Elvio Rubio; Lopes, Helder] Univ Madeira, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Funchal, Portugal; [Martins, Francisco; Franca, Cintia; Gouveia, Elvio Rubio] Interact Technol Inst, LARSyS, Funchal, Portugal; [Sliz, Maciej] Univ Rzeszow, Med Coll, Fac Phys Culture Sci, Rzeszow, Poland; [Gouveia, Elvio Rubio; Przednowek, Krzysztof] Swiss Ctr Expertise Life Course Res LIVES, Carouge, Switzerland; [Campos, Pedro] Univ Madeira, Dept Informat Engn & Interact Media Design, Funchal, Portugal; [Campos, Pedro] Wowsyst Informat Lda, Funchal, Portugal; [Lopes, Helder] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Martins, Francisco] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Act CIDAF, Coimbra, Portugal; [Martins, Francisco] Univ Madeira, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Funchal, Portugal; [Martins, Francisco] Interact Technol Inst, LARSyS, Funchal, Portugal								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300019	37	Article; Article		
J	Guo, Ruibin; Hong, Yinglu; Xu, Nan; Wei, Hongwen								Low-Load Conditioning with Blood Flow Restriction and Whole-Body Vibration Induces Post-Activation Performance Enhancement Effects and Improves Anaerobic Performance: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				179	189		10.5114/jhk/202048			JAN 2026	2026	This study examined the post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) effects of low-load conditioning (30% of 1 repetition maximum (RM) squat) with blood flow restriction (BFR) or whole-body vibration (WBV) only, and with both BFR and WBV on anaerobic performance. Forty anaerobically-trained men were randomly allocated into one of the four groups: CON, BFR, WBV or BFR+WBV, and completed five visits: Visit 1: 1RM test and familiarization session; Visit 2: Wingate test; and Visits 3 to 5: conditioning according to the group assignment, followed by a Wingate test after different rest intervals: 4 (T4), 8 (T8) or 12 (T12) min on each visit, respectively, in randomized order. Capillary blood lactate samples were collected at the 3rd, the 5th, the 8th and the 10th min after the Wingate test. Analysis revealed significant interaction effects between group and time on peak blood lactate concentration (p < 0.019). The within-group analysis showed that compared to PRE, 1) mean power (mean-P), mean power/body mass (mean-P/BM) and total work (TW) of all three groups were significantly greater at T8 (p < 0.045); 2) peak power and peak power/body mass of the BFR and the WBV group were greater at T8 (p < 0.024); 3) minimal power of the BFR+WBV group was significantly lower, and fatigue slopes were significantly greater at T8 (p < 0.032); and 4) mean-P, mean-P/BM and TW of the BFR+WBV group were significantly greater at T4 (p < 0.015). Low-load conditioning combined with BFR or WBV may induce potential PAPE to enhance anaerobic performance, and the combined-type of the protocol may induce such benefits in a faster time fashiont.		[Guo, Ruibin; Xu, Nan; Wei, Hongwen] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Strength & Conditioning Training, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Hong, Yinglu] Univ Texas Austin, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Educ, Movement & Cognit Rehabil Sci Program, Austin, TX USA; [Xu, Nan] Lithuanian Sport Univ, Dept Hlth Promot & Rehabil, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Wei, Hongwen] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Strength & Conditioning Training, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300013	41	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Peirong; Li, Yongjie; Zhang, Boya; Weng, Wenqiang; Li, Duo; Ma, Yong; Zheng, Weitao								Effects of Barbell Squats with Asymmetric Loading on the Joint Moment and Muscle Activity of Lower Limbs								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				75	85		10.5114/jhk/202020			JAN 2026	2026	This study aimed to investigate the effects of barbell squats with asymmetric loading on bilateral joint moments and muscle activity of the lower limbs. Twenty fitness athletes were recruited to perform squats under five different conditions. The peak moments in the sagittal plane of the hip and knee joints and the root mean square (RMS) of the gluteus maximus, rectus femoris, and semitendinosus muscles were analyzed bilaterally in the lower limbs, and symmetry was assessed bilaterally using the symmetry index (SI). In the non-dominant side 10% offset load (10%NDOL), the difference in the RMS and moments between the dominant and non-dominant sides was not significant (p > 0.05). Compared with the symmetrical load (SL), the hip and knee SIM, gluteus maximus, rectus femoris, and semitendinosus SIRMS were significantly lower on the non-dominant side 5% offset loads (5%NDOL) and 10% NDOL (p < 0.05), and the 10% offset load compared to the 5% offset load difference was significantly lower (p < 0.01). The NDOL reduced the differences in joint moments and muscle activity bilaterally in the lower limbs, with a 10% offset load being more favorable, and the limb SI was significantly negatively correlated with the amount of the offset load in the NDOL. The non-dominant side offset squats are beneficial for balancing muscle strength bilaterally in the lower limbs and improving bilateral strength asymmetry.		[Liu, Peirong; Zhang, Boya; Weng, Wenqiang; Li, Duo; Ma, Yong; Zheng, Weitao] Wuhan Sports Univ, Key Lab Sports Engn, Gen Adm China, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Liu, Peirong; Zhang, Boya; Weng, Wenqiang; Li, Duo; Ma, Yong; Zheng, Weitao] Wuhan Sports Univ, Res Ctr Sports Engn & Hlth Intelligent Equipment H, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongjie] Guizhou Hosp, Beijing Jishuitan Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Guiyang, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Weitao] Wuhan Sports Univ, Key Lab Sports Engn, Gen Adm China, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Weitao] Wuhan Sports Univ, Res Ctr Sports Engn & Hlth Intelligent Equipment H, Wuhan, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300007	36	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Keyi; Chan, Wing Shan; Lau, Hei Shuen; Huang, Dongxiang; Chow, Daniel Hung Kay								The Crossover Effects of Visuomotor Task Complexity in Training Reactive Agility of Ball Sports Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				5	15		10.5114/jhk/210502			JAN 2026	2026	Visuomotor reaction is a pivotal skill for athletes in ball sports. Training of such ability involves complex processing and coordination between cognitive functions and motor execution. Given the scattered literature on the topic related to task complexity, our study aimed to investigate the skill transfer effect among visuomotor tasks with different levels of complexity. Twenty-eight amateur ball players, with the mean age of 22.4 years old (SD = 1.9), were recruited and randomly assigned to either a simple or a complex visuomotor task intervention group, comprising bi-directional and multi-directional visuomotor training, respectively. Our study involved a four-week visuomotor agility training program. Visuomotor reaction times were recorded and analysed before and after the four-week intervention. The results demonstrated that both simple (F = 73.912; p < 0.01; eta p(2) = 0.745) and complex (F = 80.6; p < 0.001; eta p(2 )= 0.762) visuomotor training were effective in enhancing participants' visuomotor performance at both levels of task complexity. The crossover effect of complex visuomotor training resulted in substantial improvement in both simple and complex visuomotor reaction time, suggesting that implementing complex visuomotor training could be more effective than a simple visuomotor training approach. These findings demonstrate the transferable effects associated with complex visuomotor agility training, highlighting its potential to enhance reactive agility across different levels of task complexity.		[Zhang, Keyi; Chan, Wing Shan; Lau, Hei Shuen; Chow, Daniel Hung Kay] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Huang, Dongxiang] Shaoguan Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Shaoguan, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Chow, Daniel Hung Kay] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Kons, Rafael Lima; Ache-Dias, Jonathan; Costa, Filipe Estacio; Dal Pupo, Juliano; Detanico, Daniele								Effects of Multiple Judo Bouts in the Bilateral Strength Deficit on the Countermovement Jump Metrics								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				17	26		10.5114/jhk/202147			JAN 2026	2026	In official judo competitions, athletes often participate in multiple bouts with short recovery intervals, leading to progressive fatigue that impacts neuromuscular performance. This study examined the acute effects of four simulated judo bouts on bilateral strength deficit (BLD) using metrics from countermovement jumps (CMJs). Thirteen male national-level judo athletes (21.4 +/- 2.9 years) participated in the study. Athletes performed both unilateral and bilateral CMJs in randomized order: first at baseline before the initial match, and then after each of the four subsequent matches. The CMJ metrics evaluated included peak and mean power, jump height, peak force, peak velocity, and vertical net impulse. The study used the typical error (TE) and the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) to assess relative and absolute reliability. To compare CMJ metrics across the matches, the Friedman test with Conover's post hoc analysis was conducted, with statistical significance set at p < 0.05. The main findings showed excellent relative reliability, with an ICC greater than 0.85 for all variables in both limbs. Significant effects of the judo matches were observed only in the CMJ impulse (which decreased after the third match) and in BLD of impulse, which increased after the third match (p < 0.05). No statistically significant changes were found in other CMJ metrics. These results suggest that while successive judo bouts induced significant fatigue and force deficits, detectable through changes in impulse, other CMJ metrics remained unaffected. This may indicate that the capacity to generate force quickly in the lower limbs is primarily impacted by successive judo bouts.		[Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Salvador, BA, Brazil; [Ache-Dias, Jonathan; Costa, Filipe Estacio; Dal Pupo, Juliano; Detanico, Daniele] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Ache-Dias, Jonathan] Catarinense Fed Inst, Res Grp Technol Sport & Rehabil, Araquari, SC, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Salvador, BA, Brazil								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300002	40	Article; Article		
J	Gu, Zhengqiu; Chen, Zhili; Liao, Kaifang; Bishop, Chris; Gao, Chong; Zhong, Fogen; Deng, Shengji; Wang, Xinxin; Wei, Jianxi; Li, Yongming								A Novel Approach to Improving Squat Jump Performance: The Pre-Loaded Squat Jumps								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				100				27	37		10.5114/jhk/200809			JAN 2026	2026	The present study aimed to explore the acute effects of a novel preloading strategy on squat jump (SJ) kinetics and kinematics from 0 to 50% body mass. Twenty-one male college athletes (mean +/- SD: age = 23.29 +/- 3.15 yrs, body mass = 75.50 +/- 6.20 kg, body height = 178.07 +/- 6.45 cm and body fat content = 13.71 +/- 5.45%) completed three different jump tasks across two testing sessions: a SJ, a preloaded SJ (10-50% body mass) and a countermovement jump (CMJ). Applying preloading before the SJ resulted in significant, trivial to small increases in jump height (F(5,15) = 3.76 , p = 0.01, eta(2) = 0.16). However, there was no significant effect of preloading on peak power, peak force and peak velocity. The maximum peak power (5128.28 +/- 459.38 W vs. 5047.97 +/- 447.67 W, p = 0.04; g = 0.17) and maximum peak force (1810.72 +/- 150.35 N vs. 1775.50 +/- 155.54 N, p = 0.03; g = 0.25) were reached at the load of 20% body mass, which was significantly higher than in the SJ with no preloading applied. Jump height, peak force and peak velocity in the 10-50% body mass preloading SJ tests were not significantly different from those in the CMJ. Preloading before a SJ results in meaningful improvements in jump performance, particularly in peak power. Athletes in sports requiring high jump performance can use preloading SJ strategies to enhance lower limb explosive power and jump height.		[Gu, Zhengqiu] Jiaxing Univ, Dept Educ, Pinghu Normal Coll, Jiaxing, Peoples R China; [Gu, Zhengqiu; Chen, Zhili; Gao, Chong; Zhong, Fogen; Deng, Shengji; Wang, Xinxin; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liao, Kaifang] Guangdong Vocat Inst Sport, Dept Strength & Conditioning, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Wei, Jianxi] Army Engn Univ PLA, Res Ctr Mil Exercise Sci, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001690338300003	28	Article; Article		
J	Wagemans, Jente; Bleakley, Chris; Baur, Heiner; Clijsen, Ron; El Oumri, Ahmed Amine; Taeymans, Jan; Kuppens, Kevin; Vissers, Dirk								Clinical assessments are valid to grade ligament injury severity compared to ultrasound imaging in patients with acute lateral ankle sprains: a cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				95	103		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.12.004			JAN 2026	2026	Objectives: To determine accuracy of clinical examination in grading ankle ligament sprain severity, using ultrasound (US) imaging as the reference standard. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Rehabilitation centre. Participants: Sixty-eight athletes with an acute lateral ankle sprain (LAS) (<15 days). Main outcome measures: We performed clinical examinations to grade injury severity: anterior drawer test (ADT), talar tilt test (TTT), palpation and bruising, and patient's perception. Ultrasound imaging (US) was subsequently undertaken as reference standard. We also evaluated combinations of stress tests with palpation and bruising using a believe the negative (BTN) or positive (BTP) approach. We used Cohen's Kappa and Weighted Kappa to analyse agreement between clinical and US grading. Results: ADT and TTT demonstrated moderate agreement with US for grading ATFL (& kgreen; = 0.547) and CFL injuries (& kgreen; = 0.507), and Palpation & bruising to grade CFL injury (& kgreen; = 0.529). Clustering TTT with palpation & bruising increased agreement with BTN approach (& kgreen; = 0.609). Patients' perception showed slight agreement (& kgreen; = 0.037) with US. Conclusion: Manual stress tests demonstrate moderate utility for grading grade ATFL and CFL injury severity; combining these tests with palpation (BTN approach) yields higher agreement. US can support more precise grading and should be implemented to enhance ligament injury severity grading after LAS.		[Wagemans, Jente; Kuppens, Kevin; Vissers, Dirk] Univ Antwerp, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, Antwerp, Belgium; [Wagemans, Jente] ARRISE Acad Res & Orthopaed Rehabil Ctr Innovat &, Kapellen, Antwerp, Belgium; [Wagemans, Jente; Baur, Heiner; Clijsen, Ron; Taeymans, Jan; Vissers, Dirk] Bern Univ Appl Sci, Dept Hlth Profess, Bern, Switzerland; [Bleakley, Chris] Ulster Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Newtownabbey, North Ireland; [Clijsen, Ron] Univ Appl Sci & Arts Southern Switzerland, Dept Business Econ Hlth & Social Care, Rehabil & Exercise Sci Lab RESlab, Landquart, Switzerland; [Clijsen, Ron] Int Univ Appl Sci THIM, Landquart, Switzerland; [Clijsen, Ron; Taeymans, Jan] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Brussels, Belgium; [El Oumri, Ahmed Amine] Mohammed First Univ, Fac Med, Oujda, Morocco; [El Oumri, Ahmed Amine] Mohammed VI Univ Hosp, Phys Med & Rehabil, Oujda, Morocco; [Wagemans, Jente] Univ Antwerp, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, Univ Pl 1, Wilrijk Antwerp, Belgium								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001654141800001	48	Article; Article		
J	Yoo, Yelim; Yang, Hong Wei; Kim, Junho; Lim, Choong Hoon								The impact of virtual influencers' anthropomorphism, attractiveness, credibility and sports knowledge on consumers' information-sharing intentions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-07-2024-0157				2025	PurposeWith the rapid rise of virtual influencers across various fields of digital marketing, there remains limited understanding of why and how they influence consumer engagement on social media. To address this gap, this study examines the impact of virtual influencers' anthropomorphism and attractiveness on consumers' information-sharing intentions. It also investigates the mediating roles of perceived credibility and sports knowledge to understand the effectiveness of virtual influencers in marketing strategies and how these features shape consumer engagement on social media.Design/methodology/approachThis study employed an experimental design in which 534 South Korean social media users were randomly assigned to one of two types of stimuli and measured participants' perceptions of Virtual Influencers' anthropomorphism, attractiveness, credibility, sports knowledge and information-sharing intentions after observing the stimuli. Structural equation modeling analysis was conducted to examine the mediating effect of perceived credibility and the moderated mediation effect of perceived sports knowledge.FindingsPerceived credibility fully mediated the effect of physical attractiveness on information-sharing intention and partially mediated the effect of social attractiveness. While the moderated mediation effect of perceived sports knowledge was not statistically significant, structural path differences emerged between consumers exposed to different types of virtual influencers (sports vs non-sports). Anthropomorphism negatively affected information-sharing intention but was significant only when the virtual influencer was perceived to lack sports knowledge. Brands should prioritize credibility and perceived sports knowledge over superficial traits to foster meaningful connections with consumers.Originality/valueThis study provides insight into how virtual influencers shape consumer behavior, emphasizing the importance of perceived credibility and sports knowledge. It offers a theoretical framework for understanding virtual influencers' roles in social network services and valuable guidance for leveraging virtual influencers in competitive markets by combining theoretical insights with practical strategies.		[Yoo, Yelim; Lim, Choong Hoon] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Yoo, Yelim] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, College Stn, TX USA; [Yang, Hong Wei] Univ Suwon, Coll Life Care Sciencetechnol, Div Sports Sci, Hwaseong, South Korea; [Kim, Junho] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL USA; [Lim, Choong Hoon] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001650615700001	78	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Petreca, Daniel Rogerio; de Moraes, Fabiano Braun; Martins, Cyntia Maria de Holanda; Thuany, Mabliny; dos Santos, Marcos Andre Moura								ChatGPT road running training prescription: An expert validation analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251406721				2025	The use of online tools for training guidance, especially ChatGPT, is a common practice among road runners. However, there is no information on the quality of the information provided. This study aimed to analyse the guidance and prescriptions obtained by ChatGPT for road running, under validation by professional coaches. This is an exploratory descriptive study, carried out in two stages: 1) presentation of prompts for evaluation of ChatGPT regarding training guidelines in three different cases (beginner runner; intermediate runner; advanced runner); 2) evaluation, using a Likert scale (1:completely correct; 4:completely incorrect) of the responses generated by ChatGPT, by road running coaches. Most of the responses were considered "completely correct." For the first simulated case, it was noted that some experts classified questions three (training volume) and four (training intensity) as "more incorrect than correct." In comparison to the simulated cases two and three, most experts classified the generated responses as "more incorrect than correct." The highest frequencies of the "more incorrect than correct" option were observed for questions two and five at the intermediate level, and questions one, two, and four at the advanced level. For the questions related to the third case (advanced level), it was observed that question five was considered "completely incorrect" by 6.3% of the experts. The coaches' suggestions were directed to the race strategy, hydration and supplementation. ChatGPT provided realistic running training information based on user prompts, but the use of AI tools to prescribe specific road running activities has both potential and limitations.		[Petreca, Daniel Rogerio; Martins, Cyntia Maria de Holanda; dos Santos, Marcos Andre Moura] Univ Pernambuco, Dept Phys Educ, Recife, PE, Brazil; [de Moraes, Fabiano Braun] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Thuany, Mabliny] State Univ Para, Dept Phys Educ, Tucurui, PA, Brazil; [dos Santos, Marcos Andre Moura] UFPB, Dept Postgrad Phys Educ UPE, Recife, PE, Brazil; [dos Santos, Marcos Andre Moura] Dept Phys Educ, Rua Arnobio Marques,310 Santo Amaro, BR-50100130 Recife, PE, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001651606900001	35	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kubayi, Alliance; Barrett, Steve								The effect of ball touches on the physical and technical outputs of professional female soccer players in ball possession-based games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251407844				2025	This study investigated the effects of the number of allowed ball touches on the physical and technical responses of professional female players during 4v4 ball possession-based games (BPGs). Sixteen female professional soccer players (age: 25.33 +/- 4.72 years; body mass: 62.90 +/- 9.71 kg; body height: 1.63 +/- 0.05 cm) participated in the three differing 4v4 BPG formats where the number of ball touches permitted per possession was altered (one touch = 1T; two touches = 2T; free play = FP). Information regarding players' physical and technical variables was collected using commercially available foot-mounted inertial measurement units. There was a significant (p < 0.05) decrease in ball touches from 2T to 1T. With FP and 2T rules, players spent significantly more time on the ball than with 1T (p < 0.001). In addition, players performed significantly more successful passes when using 1T and 2T forms than when using FP form (p < 0.05). A significant difference was found on lost possession (p < 0.05), with players losing more balls when adopting the 1T rule than with the 2T and FP rules. No significant differences (p > 0.05) were found in any of the players' physical variables when manipulating the number of ball touches. Soccer coaches may use this information to plan and manage their BPGs sessions to help female players achieve the technical demands of the game by adjusting the number of ball touches permitted per possession.		[Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Human Movement & Therapeut Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa; [Barrett, Steve] Playermaker, London, England; [Barrett, Steve] Global Inst Sport, Manchester, England; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Human Movement & Therapeut Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001651883400001	29	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Moyo, Busani; Gwatidzo, Tendai								Analyzing the Impact of the 2010 Soccer World Cup on South Africa: A Synthetic Control Method								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	2			233	278		10.1177/15270025251409118			FEB 2026	2026	The announcement of South Africa as the 2010 host of the FIFA World Cup in 2004 was a triumphant moment for the country and the African continent. It marked the first time in FIFA's history that the World Cup would be hosted by an African country. We use synthetic control method to create counterfactual South Africa without the World Cup and compare it with actual South Africa to analyse the impact of this tournament. Our results show that although hosting the world cup games in 2010 had no positive effects on GDP it significantly increased tourism inflows. We however find evidence that GDP did increase during the period after announcing that South Africa would host the tournament to a year before the tournament. This suggests that the analysis of these events should focus on both the year the event is held as well as the period immediately after host announcement.		[Moyo, Busani] Univ South Africa, Dept Econ, Pretoria, South Africa; [Gwatidzo, Tendai] Univ Witwatersrand, Dept Econ, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Moyo, Busani] Univ South Africa, Dept Econ, Pretoria, South Africa								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001650927700001	84	Article; Article		
J	Kono, Tatsuya; Tanino, Yoshitsugu; Kida, Noriyuki								Simulated soccer pressing scenarios alter kinematics and kinetics of sidestep cutting associated with ACL injury risk								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	6			914	933		10.1080/14763141.2025.2594630			JUN 3 2026	2026	In soccer, anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries frequently occur during sidestep cutting (SSC) in pressing situations. This study examined the effects of soccer-specific pressing tasks on SSC kinematics and kinetics. Twenty male recreational soccer players performed a 90 degrees SSC followed by three task conditions: the Normal condition, in which participants simply continued running; the Pressing 70% condition, in which they reached for a ball placed at 70% of maximal straddle width; and the Pressing 100% condition, in which they reached for a ball at 100%. Maximal straddle width was defined as the distance between the toes during maximally hip-abducted. Both pressing conditions simulated defensive pressing. Three-dimensional peak knee and trunk angles, ground reaction forces, and knee moments of the supporting leg during the first 50 ms of the stance phase were compared. Results showed that peak knee valgus and trunk lateral inclination angles, as well as peak knee flexion, valgus, and internal rotation moments, were greater in both pressing conditions. These findings indicate that simulating pressing tasks altered SSC kinematic and kinetic characteristics. Notably, variables associated with ACL injury risk increased under pressing tasks, suggesting that pressing situations themselves may represent a biomechanical ACL injury risk.		[Kono, Tatsuya] Kyoto Inst Technol, Grad Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Biotechnol, Kyoto, Japan; [Kono, Tatsuya; Tanino, Yoshitsugu] Kansai Univ Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Hlth Sci, Osaka, Japan; [Kida, Noriyuki] Kyoto Inst Technol, Fac Arts & Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Kono, Tatsuya] Kyoto Inst Technol, Grad Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Biotechnol, Kyoto, Japan; [Kono, Tatsuya] Kansai Univ Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Hlth Sci, Osaka, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001644608100001	46	Article; Article		
J	de Lima, Tiago Rodrigues; Pelegrini, Andreia; Silva, Diego Augusto Santos								Meeting Physical Activity Guidelines and Their Association With Cardiometabolic Indicators in Adolescents With Different Weight Status								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2025.2597398				2025	The cardiometabolic health benefits of meeting physical activity guidelines for the general population are clear, but it is uncertain if adolescents with obesity experience the same advantages. Thus, we examined the link between adherence to aerobic physical activity, muscle-strengthening activities guidelines, and cardiometabolic indicators in adolescents with different weight status from S & atilde;o Jos & eacute;, Southern Brazil. This cross-sectional study comprises 353 adolescents (44.5% male; age, 16.6 +/- 1.0 years) with different weight status from S & atilde;o Jos & eacute;, Southern Brazil. Information regarding aerobic physical activity and muscle-strengthening activities was obtained through a self-reported questionnaire. Overweight and obesity were defined using the age- and sex-specific criteria of the World Health Organization. Cardiometabolic indicators investigated as outcomes were systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), waist circumference (WC), high-sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), lipid profile, and glucose metabolism markers. Multiple linear regression models adjusted for confounding factors were used to investigate the associations of interest. Regardless of weight status, meeting aerobic physical activity guidelines was inversely associated with SBP [-3.2 mmHg, standard error (SE) = 0.23], and total cholesterol (-2.4 mg/dL, SE = 0.28). Among overweight/obesity adolescents, meeting aerobic physical activity / muscle-strengthening activities guidelines was inversely associated with WC (-5.11 cm, SE = 0.77), triglycerides (0.40 times lower, SE = 0.01), and hs-CRP (0.32 times lower, SE = 0.16). Even among overweight/obese adolescents, meeting aerobic physical activity and muscle-strengthening activity guidelines can be a relevant strategy for reducing cardiometabolic risk, given the reduction in WC, triglycerides, and hs-CRP.		[de Lima, Tiago Rodrigues; Pelegrini, Andreia] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Silva, Diego Augusto Santos] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, Brazil; [de Lima, Tiago Rodrigues] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Hlth & Sports Sci Ctr, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001642899800001	45	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wang, Shuxin; Li, Yuanhao; Chen, Xiaotong; Jiang, Yankang; Shen, Yupeng								Applying statistical parametric mapping regression to identify key kinematic characteristics of underwater dolphin kicking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	6			934	949		10.1080/14763141.2025.2596763			JUN 3 2026	2026	The purpose of this study was to systematically explore the key kinematic factors influencing swimming velocity during the underwater dolphin kick (UDK) using statistical parametric mapping regression. Twenty-one university swimmers (16 males and 5 females) had a personal best within 20% of the world record. This study adopted a quantitative cross-sectional experimental design to identify phase-specific relationships between kinematic variables and swimming velocity during UDK. Their performances were recorded and analysed using two-dimensional (2D) video analysis. Twenty-one regression models revealed six key kinematic variables significantly associated with UDK velocity: the mean vertical velocity of the fifth metatarsal phalangeal joint, maximum vertical velocity of the fifth metatarsal phalangeal joint, maximum knee angle, minimum knee angle, minimum ankle angle, and mean angular velocity of the knee. Increases in these variables corresponded to higher swimming velocity. These findings provide a detailed understanding of the phase-specific contributions of lower-limb kinematics to UDK performance and offer practical implications for optimising training strategies.		[Wang, Shuxin; Chen, Xiaotong; Jiang, Yankang; Shen, Yupeng] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Shuxin] Guangdong Polytech Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Hlth, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Li, Yuanhao] Guangdong Pharmaceut Univ, Phys Hlth Ctr, Phys Educ Dept, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Shen, Yupeng] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001644425400001	42	Article; Article		
J	Derigny, Thibaut; Schnitzler, Christophe; Gandrieau, Joseph; Mekkaoui, Lea; Potdevin, Francois								Tracking the Reorganizations of MVPA Opportunities During the Transition From French Secondary School to University: A Longitudinal Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2025.2603519				2025	The transition from secondary school to university is a critical period often marked by a decline in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA). This study explores how MVPA opportunities evolve during this transition. A longitudinal design was used with 84 participants (58 girls, 26 boys) who wore accelerometers and completed daily diaries for seven consecutive days at two time points (T0: final year of secondary school; T1: first year of university). MVPA ratios were calculated overall and across 13 distinct opportunities. Results showed that overall MVPA remained stable between T0 and T1 (6.6% vs. 6.3%). Girls showed lower MVPA ratios than boys (p < .05). At T0, PE lessons, transport, recess and supervised leisure contributed most to MVPA. At T1, MVPA during PE and recess declined, while transport and autonomous leisure gained importance. These results suggest that opportunity structures for MVPA shifted, highlighting the importance of self-directed and transport-related activities in university life.		[Derigny, Thibaut] Univ Pau & Pays Adour, STAPS, Allee Parc Montaury,Batiment 1, F-64600 Anglet, France; [Schnitzler, Christophe] Univ Teacher Educ, HEP VD, Canton Vaud, Vaud, Switzerland; [Schnitzler, Christophe] Univ Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France; [Gandrieau, Joseph] Univ Cote Azur, Nice, France; [Mekkaoui, Lea; Potdevin, Francois] Univ Lille, Univ Artois, Univ Littoral Cote Opale, Lille, France; [Derigny, Thibaut] Univ Pau & Pays Adour, STAPS, Allee Parc Montaury,Batiment 1, F-64600 Anglet, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001643739200001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sandi, Paulo; Goncalves, Luiz Guilherme; de Souza, Paulo Vitor; Kobal, Ronaldo; da Silva Lins, Ageu; Costa Neves, Paulo Eduardo; Rabelo, Felipe Nunes; Avila Oliveira, Julia; Oliveira, Romario; Domingues, Henrique; Aquino, Rodrigo; da Silva, Juliano Fernandes								Contextual Factors and Running Demands in Elite Female Soccer: A Comparison Between Starters and Non-Starters								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			328	340		10.1080/02701367.2025.2594701			APR 3 2026	2026	This study examined how contextual factors influence match-running performance in elite women's soccer, with a focus on differences between starters (i.e. players who began the match) and nonstarters (i.e. players who entered the match as substitutes and played for at least 5 minutes). A total of 95 women's players from four teams competing in the Brazilian Women's First Division were monitored across 60 matches using 10-Hz GPS devices. Running performance was analyzed in both absolute and relative terms (m<middle dot>min-1) across five speed zones, PlayerLoad, accelerations, and decelerations metrics. The contextual variables examined included opponent level, match location, number of days between matches, and the momentary point-difference. Starters covered greater absolute distances, while nonstarters exhibited higher relative demands in moderate- to high intensity zones and accelerations. Starters displayed higher relative distances in low intensity running. As part of the positional comparison, midfielders covered the greatest total distance, while external defenders and forwards performed more high-intensity actions. Central defenders had the lowest physical demands across all metrics. Nonstarters showed greater sprinting distances in matches against stronger opponents when playing at home. The momentary point-difference also influenced physical performance, with more balanced matches associated with reduced running outputs across positions and roles. Additionally, greater running outputs were observed in matches with <= 4 days of recovery, especially in low-to-moderate intensity zones. Performance staff should adopt role-specific and context-approach training strategies, considering starter status and match contextual demands to prescribe compensatory training loads in elite women's soccer.		[Sandi, Paulo; de Souza, Paulo Vitor; da Silva, Juliano Fernandes] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Goncalves, Luiz Guilherme; Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Vitoria, Brazil; [Kobal, Ronaldo] Sport Club Corinthians Paulista, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [da Silva Lins, Ageu; Costa Neves, Paulo Eduardo] Botafogo Futebol E Regatas, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Rabelo, Felipe Nunes; Avila Oliveira, Julia] Red Bull Bragantino, Braganca Paulista, Brazil; [Oliveira, Romario; Domingues, Henrique] Clube Regatas Flamengo, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [da Silva, Juliano Fernandes] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Res Grp Dev Football & Futsal, Sports Sci, Campus Univ, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001642464700001	75	Article; Article		
J	Yeh, Hung-Chih; Chang, En-Yu; Ho, Chia-An; Lau, Hei-Tung; Wang, Pei-Hsuan; Lin, Wei-Hsuan; Ho, Chin-Shan								Batting pattern variations across training methods and competitive levels in baseball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251398512				2025	The purpose of this study was to investigate the differences in batting kinematics among baseball players of different levels under various training conditions. Twenty right-handed collegiate baseball players in Taiwan (national = 10, pathway = 10) were recruited. All participants performed tee batting (TB), front-toss (FT), and side-toss (ST) drills while their kinematic parameters were recorded. The results revealed more interaction effects during FT (e.g., back arm abduction, F-2,F-36 = 4.66, p = 0.01, eta(2) = 0.20; lead elbow flexion, F-2,F-36 = 4.08, p = 0.04, eta(2) = 0.18). Additionally, during TB, significant interaction effects were observed at foot contact (F-2,F-36 = 6.32, p < 0.01, eta(2) = 0.26) and at ball contact for lead elbow flexion (F-2,F-36 = 4.08, p = 0.04, eta(2) = 0.18). These findings suggest that baseball players of different competitive levels adopt different batting patterns depending on the training modality, particularly during FT and TB. The potential reasons may include the game-like nature of FT and the strategic dependence on TB for offensive tactics.		[Yeh, Hung-Chih; Chang, En-Yu; Ho, Chia-An; Lau, Hei-Tung; Wang, Pei-Hsuan; Ho, Chin-Shan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Lin, Wei-Hsuan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Sport Training Sci Balls, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Ho, Chin-Shan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001643384200001	26	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Baouan, Ali; Bismuth, Elsa; Bohbot, Aurele; Coustou, Sebastien; Lacome, Mathieu; Rosenbaum, Mathieu								What should clubs monitor to predict the future value of football players?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251397642				2025	Huge amounts of money are invested every year by football clubs on transfers. For both growth and survival, it is crucial for recruiting departments to make smart choices when targeting players. Therefore, it is important to identify the right parameters to monitor to predict market value. The following paper aims at determining the relevant features that successfully forecast the future value for football players. Success is measured against their market value from TransferMarkt. In particular, we perform this prediction separately for each position on the pitch, acknowledging the different characteristics and criteria relevant for each role on the pitch. To select prominent features, we use Lasso regressions and Random Forest algorithms. Some obvious variables are selected but we also observe some subtle dependencies between features and future market value. Notably, the median league market value is uncovered to have a strong predictive power. Finally, we rank the Golden Boy nominees using our forecasts and show our methodology can successfully compare football players based on their quality.		[Baouan, Ali; Bismuth, Elsa; Bohbot, Aurele; Rosenbaum, Mathieu] Inst Polytech Paris, Ecole Polytech, CMAP, CNRS, F-91120 Palaiseau, France; [Coustou, Sebastien; Lacome, Mathieu] Parma Calcio 1913 Performance & Analyt, Parma, Emilia Romagna, Italy; [Baouan, Ali] Inst Polytech Paris, Ecole Polytech, CMAP, CNRS, F-91120 Palaiseau, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001642668000001	20	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bell, Lee; Thompson, Steve W.; Boriel, Jordan; Rogerson, David								Knee sleeve practices and beliefs in recreational and competitive strength sport athletes: An international cross-sectional survey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251406903				2025	Despite the popularity of knee sleeves in strength sport participation, little is known about how athletes perceive to benefit from them during training or competition. Therefore, this study investigated current practices and beliefs of knee sleeves employed by competitive and recreational athletes from various strength sports. An open, anonymous survey was distributed via social media and industry experts to a cross-sectional convenience sample of competitive and recreational strength sport athletes. The 19-item survey was distributed between May and July 2025. A total of 225 respondents completed the survey (males =103 [45.8%], females = 122 [54.2%]; overall age = 36.1 +/- 11.9 years; competition experience 5.5 +/- 4.6 years). Respondents represented a range of strength sports (e.g., powerlifting, weightlifting, strong(wo)man, etc.) at various competitive levels (amateur to Olympic), as well as non-competitive recreational trainees. The most popular material for knee sleeves was neoprene (188; 83.6%), and the majority of respondents reported that their knee sleeves were 7 mm thick (143; 63.6%). More respondents favored manufacturer-recommended fitting knee sleeves 156 (69.3%) than tighter fitting (69; 30.7%). Perceived advantages and benefits were analyzed using content analysis principles, resulting in two categories: psychophysiological and social. Strength athletes use knee sleeves for several reasons, with the most frequently reported perceived benefits being increased stability, joint warmth, a rebound effect, and augmented maximal strength. Additional findings note that several of the perceived benefits have not been empirically substantiated, and further research is required to fully elucidate the potential benefits that knee sleeves have on strength performance.		[Bell, Lee; Thompson, Steve W.; Boriel, Jordan; Rogerson, David] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sch Sport & Phys Act, Collegiate Hall, Sheffield S10 2BP, England; [Bell, Lee] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sch Sport & Phys Act, Collegiate Hall, Sheffield S10 2BP, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001642654900001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Adhikari, Ragini; Clarke, Anthea; Kamath, Sahana; Godase, Sharvari; Kundu, Chayan; Easow, Judy; Pullinger, Samuel A.; Edwards, Ben J.								From stigma to strength: Menstrual health awareness, practices and beliefs in Indian female athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2201	2212		10.1177/17479541251395165			AUG 2026	2026	The aim of the study was to explore menstrual health awareness, hygiene practices, and beliefs around menstruation among Indian female athletes. Three hundred and six participants aged 19.0 +/- 4.3 years, recruited from the Inspire Institute of Sport, Bellary, Karnataka (India), were interviewed using a 30-item structured questionnaire covering various themes such as menstrual characteristics, knowledge, period care approaches, and perceptions towards menstruation. Frequency analysis was done to determine the results. The key findings were that the female family members were the most common first source of information around menstruation (75.8%), highlighting limited formal education and the continued confinement of menstrual discourse to female-centric spaces. Although 99.0% of the participants recognized menstruation as a natural process, only 71.5% correctly attributed it to hormonal changes. Hygiene practices showed a massive preference for using sanitary pads (88.9%) and a lack of period tracking amongst 62.4% of our subject population. Sleep disruptions during periods were common, with rest and hot packs as the most preferred coping strategies for dysmenorrhea. 26.1% of the athletes expressed reservation in talking about periods. These findings demonstrate the importance of comprehensive menstrual health education within athlete support systems-emphasizing not only basic physiology but also the performance and health implications of menstrual irregularities. Promoting informed practices is key to enhancing athlete well-being, recovery, and long-term performance sustainability.		[Adhikari, Ragini; Godase, Sharvari; Pullinger, Samuel A.] Inspire Inst Sport, Sport Sci Dept, Bellary, Karnataka, India; [Clarke, Anthea] La Trobe Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Kamath, Sahana] Invictus Performance Lab, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India; [Kundu, Chayan] Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educ & Res Inst, Dept Sports Sci & Yoga, Belur Math, West Bengal, India; [Easow, Judy] Sport Author India, Sport Sci Dept, Patiala, Punjab, India; [Pullinger, Samuel A.; Edwards, Ben J.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Dept Exercise & Sports Sci, Liverpool, England; [Adhikari, Ragini] Inspire Inst Sport, Bellary, Karnataka, India								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001641793900001	83	Article; Article		
J	Akinci, Yasin; Yapar, Ahmet; Kaki, Baris								Born early, perform better: The impact of relative age on performance in Turkish youth basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251406425				2025	This study investigated the relative age effect (RAE) and its impact on performance in male basketball players participating in Turkish youth championships across U14, U16, and U18 age categories between 2017 and 2023 except 2020-2021 because of COVID-19 pandemics. An archival data model was employed, analysing data from 3113 players between 2017 and 2023. The months of birth were divided into four three-month periods and called Q1 to Q4. Statistical analyses included Chi-square tests with odds ratios, Welch ANOVA, and principal component analysis (PCA) used to visualize performance variable structures. Results indicated a significant RAE across all age groups, with Q1-born players consistently overrepresented and demonstrating superior performance in key metrics such as playing time, points, field goals, and efficiency score. The RAE was most pronounced in the U14 category, peaked at U16, and, while still present, was less prominent in U18, suggesting a convergence of biological maturity and the increasing influence of technical-tactical skills at older ages. PCA further revealed that early-born players were more likely to occupy central and productive roles on the court. These findings emphasize that coaches and policy-makers should consider RAE in their selection processes to ensure that long-term potential is not overlooked due to initial age-related disparities.		[Akinci, Yasin] Usak Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Usak, Turkiye; [Yapar, Ahmet] Canakkale Onsekiz Mart Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Canakkale, Turkiye; [Kaki, Baris] Usak Univ, Fac Econometr, Usak, Turkiye; [Akinci, Yasin] Usak Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Usak, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001642653100001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Akagi, Ryota; Ichikawa, Sonoka; Tanaka, Mikuri; Watabe, Rina; Morikawa, Ikumi; Mada, Kaede; Ema, Ryoichi								Comparison of Hamstring Functional and Stiffness Characteristics Between Adolescent Female Soccer Players and Age-Matched Controls: A Cross-Sectional Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			310	320		10.1080/02701367.2025.2589333			APR 3 2026	2026	This cross-sectional study compared the functional and stiffness properties of the hamstring muscles between adolescent female soccer players and age-matched controls. Cluster analysis split the soccer group into 28 participants aged >= 170 months (similar to 14.2 years) and 15 participants < 170 months. The control group was similarly divided (older: 14 participants; younger: 13 participants). Unilateral isometric peak torque and isotonic peak power of the knee flexors and eccentric knee flexor strength measured during the Nordic hamstring exercise (NHE strength) for each leg were determined. The semitendinosus shear modulus was also measured in both legs using ultrasound shear wave elastography. Across all age groups, the soccer group (39-117 Nm) demonstrated significantly greater NHE strength bilaterally (control: 20-80 Nm) (p < .001). Conversely, hamstring stiffness was comparable between the groups, with a notable increase observed in the younger age cohort (older: 2.3-6.3 kPa; younger: 3.1-6.7 kPa) (p = .013). Moreover, soccer players' NHE strength did not align with conventional knee flexor strength measures. These results demonstrate that adolescent female soccer players possess a distinct hamstring muscle profile, notably exhibiting significantly greater NHE strength compared to controls, with semitendinosus shear modulus being largely comparable between the groups. This unique profile is commonly associated with a reduced risk of hamstring strain injury, a finding potentially relevant for injury prevention strategies in this population. Such findings offer practical guidance for injury screening, but their interpretation is limited by the cross-sectional design and the control group's activity heterogeneity.		[Akagi, Ryota; Ichikawa, Sonoka; Tanaka, Mikuri; Watabe, Rina; Morikawa, Ikumi; Mada, Kaede] Shibaura Inst Technol, Tokyo, Japan; [Ema, Ryoichi] Shizuoka Sangyo Univ, Iwata, Japan; [Akagi, Ryota] Shibaura Inst Technol, Coll Syst Engn & Sci, 307 Fukasaku,Minuma Ku, Saitama 3378570, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001640463900001	49	Article; Article		
J	Yamada, Masahiro; Babapour Lashanlou, Mahdi; Dehghanizadeh, Jalal; Mohammadzadeh, Hassan								Testing for an Optimal Task Difficulty of Skill Acquisition in Golf Putting								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			282	294		10.1080/02701367.2025.2587799			APR 3 2026	2026	The Challenge Point Framework suggests that an optimal difficulty exists for promoting motor learning. However, the "sweet spot" has yet to be found, potentially due to methodological differences. Limitations of previous literature include (a) the lack of a standard metric to gauge task difficulty, (b) the lack of a standard dependent variable (as a raw score varies between different task difficulty levels), and (c) the lack of a definition of "optimal difficulty." To this end, the present study employed "success rate" as a measure of difficulty. For the dependent variable, the normalized performance and the coefficient of variation were used for group comparisons. To assess optimal difficulty, we considered two potential definitions: the improvement rate (the pattern of improvement) and the magnitude of learning. A total of 150 participants (M-age +/- SD = 21.75 +/- 2.21) were randomly and equally assigned to one of three groups: high (60-70%), medium (20-30%), and low success rate ( < 10%). Participants practiced golf putting for 50 trials, followed by a 24-hour retention test. Our results showed that the pattern and magnitude of learning did not differ, suggesting that no optimal difficulty existed in golf putting with the present design. Future studies should employ consistent metrics and definitions of optimal difficulty to facilitate meaningful comparisons between experiments. We discussed the need for further discussion to address and overcome existing methodological and conceptual limitations and inconsistencies.		[Yamada, Masahiro] Whittier Coll, Whittier, CA USA; [Babapour Lashanlou, Mahdi; Dehghanizadeh, Jalal; Mohammadzadeh, Hassan] Urmia Univ, Orumiyeh, Iran; [Yamada, Masahiro] Whittier Coll, Dept Kinesiol, 13615 Earlham Dr, Whittier, CA 90602 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001641106800001	72	Article; Article		
J	Vilamitjana, Javier; Heinze, Gabriel; Verde, Pablo; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio								Comparison of external load between positional games and matches classified according to players' positional roles								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251395640				2025	In soccer, teams frequently incorporate positional games (PGs) into their training sessions. However, the external load of PGs for each positional role is scarce. This study examined the extent to which PGs are efficient in stimulating the physical demands of competition and the relationship with the player's position. Twenty-eight Argentine professional players (age: 24.9 +/- 4.7 years; body mass: 73.9 +/- 6 kg; height: 177.3 +/- 8.3 cm). Players were categorized into the following groups: central and wide defenders (CD-WD), central and offensive midfielders (CMF-OMF), and wingers and forwards (WIN-FOR). External load was monitored using GPS (50 Hz) during 2 PG formats (8vs8 + 2 Goalkeepers (GK); 9vs9 + 2GK) and 10 official matches. Total distance (TD), player-load (PL), load rates (distance covered per min >14.9 and >19.9 km<middle dot>h(-)(1); HILR-HSLR), number of runs during load rates (#HILR-#HSLR), high-intensity accelerations/decelerations (>2.5; < -2.5 m<middle dot>s(-2); HIA-HID), and high metabolic load distance (HMLD) were measured. TD was lower in every position for 8vs8 + 2GK compared to matches, but the opposite occurred for 9vs9 + 2GK. For PL, all positions mirrored match status in both formats. HILR-HSLR showed lower values across every position (p < .001), except in WD in both variables for 9vs9 + 2GK. Regarding #HILR, only CD-FOR reached the match demands for 8vs8 + 2GK, and all roles resembled match status in 9vs9 + 2GK, except for WIN, with a lower mean value than matches (p < .001). For variable #HSLR, all positions in both formats attained lower values (p < .05). There were significantly higher values of HIA-HID in every positional role during both formats (p < .001). HMLD were lower in all positions for 8vs8 + 2GK. Formats such as 9vs9 + 2GK might achieve similar match performance in various metrics, except for HILR-HSSL. Higher values of HIA, and HID in both formats, with certain relative areas per player, can stimulate intensity concerning these specific metrics in each position during games.		[Vilamitjana, Javier] Asociac Atlet Argentinos Jr, Dept Alto Rendimiento, Bs As, Argentina; [Heinze, Gabriel] Asociac Deport & Cultural Crespo, Dept Futbol, Entre Rios, Argentina; [Verde, Pablo] Univ Dusseldorf, Coordinat Ctr Clin Trials, Dusseldorf, Germany; [Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Pais Vasco UPV EHU, Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leioa, Spain; [Vilamitjana, Javier] Asociac Atlet Argentinos Jr, Dept Alto Rendimiento, Bs As, Argentina								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001642114200001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kim, Junho; Choi, Kyuhyun								The effects of functional and symbolic brand fit on consumer behavior in co-branding eco-friendly sportswear products								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0314				2025	PurposeAs consumer demand for sustainable products grows, understanding the key determinants of co-branding success in this context is crucial for marketing practitioners. The purpose of this study was to examine how functional and symbolic brand fit influence consumer attitudes and purchase intentions toward co-branded products in the eco-friendly sportswear market, where sustainability plays a pivotal role.Design/methodology/approachThis study employed a 2 (functional fit: high vs. low) x 2 (symbolic fit: high vs. low) between-subjects design. A two-way multivariate analysis of covariance tested the main and interaction effects of functional and symbolic fit on consumer behavior. Two pretests validated the manipulations, and a total of 285 US participants were randomly assigned to one of four conditions.FindingsThe findings reveal a significant interaction effect between functional and symbolic fit, demonstrating that symbolic fit can mitigate the adverse effects of low functional fit, leading to more favorable consumer responses. Specifically, even when the functional fit is low, a high symbolic fit can counterbalance negative perceptions and foster positive attitudes and purchase intentions. These results highlight the modest but meaningful role of symbolic fit in enhancing consumer acceptance of co-branded eco-friendly products, suggesting that consumers may prioritize symbolic alignment to some extent over functional compatibility.Originality/valueThis study provides robust empirical evidence that symbolic brand fit is a decisive factor influencing consumer attitudes and purchase intentions toward co-branded eco-friendly products. These findings underscore the primacy of shared values and identity over product similarity in shaping consumer responses, offering actionable insights for brand managers aiming to optimize co-branding strategies in sustainability-driven markets.		[Kim, Junho] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL USA; [Choi, Kyuhyun] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Choi, Kyuhyun] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001639465900001	90	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hanada, Yu; Ogasawara, Etsuko; Inoue, Yuhei								Challenges facing the esports industry: a scoping review								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0380				2025	PurposeThis article has three objectives: (1) to synthesize the literature regarding the challenges in the esports industry, aiming to establish a comprehensive understanding of the industry challenges; (2) to identify the relationship between these challenges and esports stakeholders and their roles in addressing the challenges and (3) to provide future research directions.Design/methodology/approachA scoping review of the literature on the challenges in the esports industry was conducted. A descriptive analysis identified the bibliographic and methodological patterns of this literature (N = 213). A thematic analysis elucidated the challenges and their relationships with esports stakeholders.FindingsSix themes captured the industry challenges: (1) lack of universal regulations, (2) legal challenges of esports, (3) esports integrity, (4) unstable careers of esports athletes, (5) esports-related gambling and (6) health risks of esports. The interrelationships among these challenges and their relevance to esports stakeholders were clarified.Originality/valueThis scoping review is the first to holistically examine the challenges facing the esports industry and corresponding research trends. Through the lens of stakeholder theory, this review elucidates the relationships between these challenges and the esports stakeholders, as well as the roles each stakeholder plays in addressing them. By presenting research gaps and future research directions, we further provide the opportunity to advance esports research by applying theories and knowledge from sport management.		[Hanada, Yu; Ogasawara, Etsuko] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Chiba, Japan; [Inoue, Yuhei] Univ Illinois, Dept Recreat Sport & Tourism, Champaign, IL USA; [Hanada, Yu] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Chiba, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001639466500001	75	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Molina-Paya, F. J.; Montero-Navarro, S.; Orts-Ruiz, C.; Salar-Andreu, C.; Brotons-Mas, J. R.; Sanchez-Mas, J.								Diagnostic accuracy of infrared thermography and textural features in patellar tendinopathy: optimizing ROI selection in athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				87	94		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.12.003			JAN 2026	2026	Objectives: To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of infrared thermography (IT) using temperature difference (zT) and gray-level co-occurrence matrix (GLCM)-based textural parameters for detecting patellar tendinopathy (PT) in athletes, and to determine the optimal region of interest (ROI) size for analysis. Design: Cross-sectional study following STARD criteria. Setting: Physical therapy center with controlled environmental conditions. Participants: 54 athletes (27 with unilateral PT; 27 healthy controls). Main outcome measures: Temperature differences (zT) and GLCM features (energy, homogeneity, contrast, correlation, entropy) from thermal images of tendon and knee ROIs. Results: Athletes with PT showed higher zT in the tendon ROI (0.5 +/- 0.36 degrees C vs. 0.2 +/- 0.20 degrees C; d = 0.77; p = 0.013). Among GLCM parameters, tendon ROI correlation (TCOR) differed significantly between groups (p = 0.042). Diagnostic performance analysis identified zT as the best single variable (AUC 0.83; sensitivity 78 %; specificity 78 %). The zT + GLCM combination achieved highest accuracy for tendon ROI (AUC 0.93). The patellar tendon-specific ROI provided better discrimination than the knee ROI. Conclusions: IRT combined with GLCM enhances PT diagnostic precision, with the tendon ROI optimal for detecting local physiological differences. This accessible multimodal approach could complement clinical diagnosis in athletes.		[Molina-Paya, F. J.; Montero-Navarro, S.; Orts-Ruiz, C.; Salar-Andreu, C.] CEU Univ, CEU Cardenal Herrera Univ, Hlth Sci Fac, Phys Therapy Dept, Plaza Reyes Catolicos 19, Elche 03204, Spain; [Brotons-Mas, J. R.] UMH, Inst Neurociencias, CSIC, Alicante, Spain; [Brotons-Mas, J. R.; Sanchez-Mas, J.] CEU Univ, CEU Cardenal Herrera Univ, Hlth Sci Fac, Biomed Sci Dept, Plaza Reyes Catolicos 19, Elche 03204, Spain; [Molina-Paya, F. J.] CEU Cardenal Herrera Univ, Plaza Reyes Catolicos 19, Elche 03204, Spain								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001643959700001	50	Article; Article		
J	Oliveira, Pedro Henrique de Almeida; Bredt, Sarah da Gloria Teles; Silva, Guilherme de Oliveira Santos; Praca, Gibson Moreira								Thinking While Playing: Exploring Cognitive Load and Passing Accuracy in Football Training								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT											10.1080/02701367.2025.2596192				2025	The present study compared pass decision-making performance among young football players exposed to small-sided games with manipulated cognitive load following a training session. Twenty-four U-14 athletes participated in four experimental conditions: a control protocol (CON) and three small-sided game protocols involving dual tasks that required counting passes (T1, T2, and T3). Cognitive load was progressively increased by requiring players to memorize more items (i.e. sectors used to divide the number of passes) from T1 to T3. The pass decision-making index was used as the dependent variable, and the pass-counting error rate served as a manipulation check. Generalized Estimating Equations were used to analyze decision-making performance, and parameter estimates were applied to examine pairwise differences. No main effects of time or experimental condition were observed. However, a significant time-by-condition interaction emerged (p = .007), with posttest decision-making performance in T3 being lower than in the control condition (a 15% decrease in accuracy). No differences were found between the control and either T1 or T2. These findings suggest that the pass decision-making performance is impaired under high cognitive load. In contrast, introducing up to two additional pieces of information does not hinder performance, supporting its application as a training strategy for players in this age group and skill level.		[Oliveira, Pedro Henrique de Almeida; Bredt, Sarah da Gloria Teles; Silva, Guilherme de Oliveira Santos; Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Ave Pres Antonio Carlos 6627, BR-31270 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001639567300001	49	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Chandra, Abhishek; Goldstein, Jack; Peter, Krystina; Roberts, William; Satin, David J.								A Quality Improvement Approach to the Underreporting of Sexual Abuse in Competitive Sports: A Conceptual Framework								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			358	362		10.1080/02701367.2025.2596191			APR 3 2026	2026	Continuing reports involving the sexual abuse of athletes in USA Gymnastics sounded a call to action for competitive sports organizations around the world. We propose a Quality Improvement (QI) approach to evaluate the dynamics of this problem. We do so by [1] defining the problem and its scope within competitive sports, [2] making the case for QI methodologies as an untapped resource to address this problem, and [3] suggesting novel approaches using these specific methodologies. We demonstrate how a systems approach and methodologies like Root Cause Analysis can identify cultural, systemic, and individual barriers to reporting. They can also expose inherent conflicts of interest and biases that compound this problem. A QI approach can identify previously unrecognized causes of underreporting sexual abuse of athletes and may guide targeted interventions.		[Chandra, Abhishek] Abbott NW Hosp, 800 East 28th St, Minneapolis, MN 55407 USA; [Goldstein, Jack] Hennepin Healthcare, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Peter, Krystina] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Omaha, NE USA; [Roberts, William; Satin, David J.] Univ Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Chandra, Abhishek] Abbott NW Hosp, 800 East 28th St, Minneapolis, MN 55407 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001639570000001	31	Article; Article		
J	Burkle, Bruno Feijo; Chiviacowsky, Suzete; Cardozo, Priscila; Drews, Ricardo								Conceptions of Ability Positive Feedback Affect the Learning of a Sport Motor Skill in Children of Different Ages								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			273	281		10.1080/02701367.2025.2586666			APR 3 2026	2026	The aim of this study was to examine the effects of positive feedback that induces different conceptions of ability on the acquisition of a motor skill in children of different ages. Sixty-eight 6 and 12 years old children (32 boys and 36 girls), learning a soccer throw-in task, were divided into four practice groups: malleable and fixed conception for both ages. During the practice phase, all participants received positive feedback designed to induce either a malleable or a fixed conception of ability. Next day the first retention test was conducted, without feedback. Immediately after this test, all participants received one negative feedback. This was followed by a second retention test, under the same conditions as the first retention test. A self-efficacy questionnaire and the Intrinsic Motivation Inventory were administered at different phases of the experiment. The results indicate that the malleable conception condition led to better learning outcomes than the fixed conception condition, regardless of age. It is concluded that providing positive feedback that fosters a malleable conception of ability can enhance the acquisition of sporting motor skills in children across different age groups, relative to positive feedback that induces a fixed conception of ability.		[Burkle, Bruno Feijo; Chiviacowsky, Suzete; Cardozo, Priscila; Drews, Ricardo] Univ Fed Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil; [Drews, Ricardo] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Uberlandia, Brazil; [Drews, Ricardo] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Santa Maria, Brazil; [Drews, Ricardo] Univ Fed Pelotas, Escola Super Educ Fis, Rua Luis Camoes 625, BR-96055630 Pelotas, RS, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001637859100001	51	Article; Article		
J	Romero-Martinez, Jorge; Menescardi, Cristina; Garcia-Masso, Xavier; Estevan, Isaac								A Four-Year Longitudinal Study of Relationships Among Actual and Perceived Motor Competence and Physical Activity in Spanish Primary School Children								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			295	309		10.1080/02701367.2025.2587805			APR 3 2026	2026	The purpose of this study was: 1) by mediational analysis, to analyze the cross-sectional relationships between actual motor competence (AMC), perceived motor competence (PMC) and physical activity (PA) at four time points (one year apart), 2) by mediatorial analyses, to analyze the longitudinal relationship between these factors (each variable controlled by the previous year), 3) by a cross-lagged model, to analyze the longitudinal association between AMC, PMC and PA across the four years. A convenience sample of 111 Spanish students aged 8-10 years participated in this study. Analyses were carried out through structural equation models to test simple mediation, changes over time and cross-lagged relationships. Objective 1: Analysis supports PMC's mediating role between AMC and PA and also a bidirectional relationship between PMC and PA over the four years. Objective 2: All variables showed they were influenced by previous years, except for PA-T3 and PA-T4 when the model went from AMC to PA. The only bidirectional relationship that remained constant in all years was between PMC and PA. Objective 3: The cross-lagged panel analysis revealed significant autoregressive relationships for AMC, PMC and PA, as well as relationships between PMC and PA for the four years. Longitudinally, an interesting mediational path was found: AMC-T1 -> PMC-T2 -> PMC-T3 -> (PMC-T4 and PA-T3) -> PA-T4. The longitudinal association between AMC, PMC and PA, including the prospective meditational role of PMC, was confirmed across the four years with a particular consistency in the bidirectional relationship between PMC and PA.		[Romero-Martinez, Jorge; Menescardi, Cristina; Garcia-Masso, Xavier; Estevan, Isaac] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Estevan, Isaac] Univ Valencia, Dept Teaching Phys Educ Arts & Mus, Ave Tarongers 4, Valencia 46022, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001637867400001	94	Article; Article		
J	Hill, Yannick; Oudejans, Raoul R. D.; Van de Klok, Inge A. M.; Dijkstra, Jada; Russchen, Noa A. M.; Kok, Marjan								Scaling dose-response profiles to sports performance: Identifying hormesis and challenge points in a field hockey shooting task								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251406629				2025	Although variations in task demands are common in athletic performance training, we have little insight into when they elicit enhancing or diminishing effects. Models that can comprehensively capture the diverse influence of changes in task demands are largely lacking. Hormesis - the fundamental dose-response model found in toxicology and medicine - suggests that small doses of task demands can enhance performance, while large doses that go beyond tolerance thresholds are detrimental. This principle may be leveraged to identify personalized doses of task demands for performance enhancement. Therefore, the aim of this study was to test whether hormesis can be scaled to athletic performance. To do so, we created dose-response profiles of shooting accuracy in field hockey in response to five different exercises with varying doses of task demands for 32 female players. The results reveal a nonlinear change pattern of performance in response to increasing task demands in line with hormesis. Additionally, a significant proportion of players (62.50%) demonstrate shooting accuracy improvements of more than 30% relative to the lowest dose. Exploratory inspections of the dose-response profiles indicate that challenge points can be identified that are assumed to trigger optimal learning. Thus, hormesis appears to be a valuable concept for sports, which can help coaches to develop individualized training programs.		[Hill, Yannick; Oudejans, Raoul R. D.; Van de Klok, Inge A. M.; Dijkstra, Jada; Russchen, Noa A. M.; Kok, Marjan] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Hill, Yannick; Oudejans, Raoul R. D.; Kok, Marjan] Inst Brain & Behav Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Hill, Yannick] Univ Colorado, Lyda Hill Inst Human Resilience, Colorado Springs, CO 80918 USA; [Oudejans, Raoul R. D.] Amsterdam Univ Appl Sci, Ctr Expertise Urban Vital, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Hill, Yannick] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Hill, Yannick] Univ Colorado, Lyda Hill Inst Human Resilience, Colorado Springs, CO 80918 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001639423900001	48	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Yu, Hong-Peng; Tang, Wen-Tzu; Rasmussen, John; Cheng, Hung-Wei; Huang, Tsung-Yu								Kinematic differences in smash techniques between elite singles and doubles badminton players: Upper/lower trunk and upper limb analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251395168				2025	The study aims to compare elite singles and doubles badminton players' smash technique. This study recruited a total of 7 elite singles players and 9 elite doubles badminton players. A motion analysis system with 11 infrared cameras (sampling frequency of 400 Hz) collected data on the technique of standing smashes. The independent samples t-test was employed to analyze the differences between doubles and singles players in their joint kinematics and performative aspects. Singles players had significantly higher shuttlecock speed than doubles players (p < 0.05). Doubles players had significantly higher peak shoulder adduction angular velocities than singles players, but singles players had significantly higher peak shoulder abduction angular velocities than doubles players. Singles players also had significantly higher peak wrist joint palmar flexion angular velocities than doubles players. In addition, singles players had significantly higher peak linear accelerations in the upper trunk joint center than doubles players. In conclusion, this study has elucidated distinct stroke patterns in the upper trunk, shoulder, and wrist among elite singles and doubles badminton players, due to variations in technique and tactical preferences. Specifically, singles players exhibit quicker shoulder abduction and wrist dorsal flexion, alongside higher peak linear forward acceleration in the upper trunk, whereas doubles players employ swifter shoulder adduction to attain racket speed at impact. These findings highlight the difference in playing style and technical prerequisites between singles and doubles badminton players, emphasizing the necessity for tailored training programs tailored to each player category.		[Yu, Hong-Peng; Tang, Wen-Tzu; Cheng, Hung-Wei; Huang, Tsung-Yu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, 250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Rasmussen, John] Aalborg Univ, Ctr Rehabil Robot, North Jutland Reg, Aalborg, Denmark; [Tang, Wen-Tzu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, 250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001637411400001	17	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fernandez-Navarrete, Ivan; Ruiz-Alias, Santiago A.; Gomez-Garcia, Marta; Riquelme-Sebastian, Leonardo; Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe								Hyrox©: A Descriptive Analysis of Participation Trends Among Over 275,000 Athletes in the New Fitness Modality								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			266	272		10.1080/02701367.2025.2584226			APR 3 2026	2026	High-intensity functional training (HIFT) is a competition and training modality that has gained popularity over the last few years. As a result, disciplines like Hyrox (c) have emerged recently, responding to the need for a fixed competition. The aim of this study was to assess the worldwide participation trends from its inception to the 2023/2024 season of this novel competition. A total of 145 races and 278.063 participants divided into 5 seasons were included in the study. Each division experienced noticeable growth compared to the previous season, except to the 2020/2021 season, due to COVID-19 pandemic. Likewise, the number of host countries per season also increased, reaching a total of 22 countries worldwide, highlighting its potential for continued expansion. The findings of this study contribute valuable insight into the evolving landscape of HIFT and underscore Hyrox (c)'s emergence as a global fitness trend.		[Fernandez-Navarrete, Ivan; Ruiz-Alias, Santiago A.; Gomez-Garcia, Marta; Riquelme-Sebastian, Leonardo; Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ Granada, Granada, Spain; [Fernandez-Navarrete, Ivan; Ruiz-Alias, Santiago A.; Gomez-Garcia, Marta; Riquelme-Sebastian, Leonardo; Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ Granada, Sport & Hlth Univ Res Ctr iMUDS, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ La Frontera, Temuco, Chile; [Fernandez-Navarrete, Ivan] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Carretera Alfacar 21, Granada 18011, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001636335600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Salaga, Steven; Mills, Brian M.; Brown, Katie M.								The Relevance of Betting Market Outcome Uncertainty: Decided Wagers and Television Viewership Loss								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	2			214	232		10.1177/15270025251404922			FEB 2026	2026	We investigate the strength of the relationship between betting market outcome uncertainty and live television viewership through the mechanism of a decided wager. Specifically, we assess how the elimination of outcome uncertainty in the totals market (over/under) impacts viewership for NCAA football national television broadcasts. Our modeling demonstrates the timing of when the over/under is eclipsed has a statistically significant and economically relevant impact on live consumption. A one standard deviation change in the timing of totals market outcome uncertainty elimination is associated with a reduction of over 175,000 average contest viewers. We also demonstrate this effect is not being driven by games that become uncompetitive or are largely decided from a point spread perspective late in the broadcast. The results further illustrate the economically relevant impact the wagering market has on live consumption, and an additional way to operationalize uncertainty of outcome in the sports demand literature.		[Salaga, Steven] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, 361 Ramsey,330 River Rd, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Mills, Brian M.] Univ Texas Austin, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Educ, Austin, TX USA; [Brown, Katie M.] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX USA; [Salaga, Steven] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, 361 Ramsey,330 River Rd, Athens, GA 30602 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001635527500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Thompson, Rone; Paton, Carl; Bini, Rodrigo Rico; Hebert-Losier, Kim								Exploring the reliability of isometric benchmark tests and their relationship to performance characteristics in elite track sprint cyclists								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	6			894	913		10.1080/14763141.2025.2593325			JUN 3 2026	2026	Benchmark tests in competitive cycling identify talent, individualise training, and monitor performance. However, varying protocols often produce conflicting results, reducing comparability. Isometric tests are prevalent, but reliability and performance correlation are underexplored. Determine the test-retest reliability of benchmark test metrics in elite track sprint cyclists and their relationship to a performance outcome. Nineteen elite track sprint cyclists (12 males, 7 females) completed seven benchmark tests across two days: modified sit-and-reach; on-bike rolling seated maximum 6-s sprints; 3-s bilateral on-bike isometrics at 90 degrees crank angle; 3-s prone bench pull isometrics; 3-s lumbar extension isometrics; 3-s seated off-bike isometrics; and modified plank endurance. For the performance outcome, a third session within 7 days assessed peak power using an inertial load cycle ergometer. All tests showed excellent measurement consistency (ICC3,1 >= 0.92), with low systematic bias (p >= 0.063), though confidence interval varied due to modest sample size. High test-retest reliability was supported by low typical errors (CV 2.0-5.5%; 9.6% for endurance). Nine benchmark metrics, including bilateral isometric measures, showed moderate to excellent correlation with peak power output (r = 0.52-0.94, p <= 0.023); six remained statistically significant after Bonferroni correction (p <= 0.005). All benchmark metrics were reliable, with six strongly and statistically significantly associated with performance.		[Thompson, Rone; Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Fac Hlth Sport & Human Performance, Adams Ctr High Performance, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Thompson, Rone] Grassroots Trust Velodrome, Performance Hlth High Performance Sport New Zealan, Cambridge, New Zealand; [Paton, Carl] Te Pukenga Eastern Inst Technol, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Napier, New Zealand; [Bini, Rodrigo Rico] La Trobe Rural Hlth Sch, Holsworth Biomed Res Ctr, Bendigo, Vic, Australia; [Thompson, Rone] Univ Waikato, Fac Hlth Sport & Human Performance, Adams Ctr High Performance, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Thompson, Rone] Grassroots Trust Velodrome, Performance Hlth High Performance Sport New Zealan, Cambridge, New Zealand								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001632938800001	77	Article; Article		
J	Portas-Nunez, Belen; Blanco-Martinez, Nerea; Sanchez-Lastra, Miguel Adriano; Diz-Gomez, Jose Carlos; Ayan-Perez, Carlos								Prevalence of eating disorder, body image dissatisfaction and musculoskeletal complaints among former spanish rhythmic gymnasts: a retrospective study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	2			140	146		10.1080/00913847.2025.2597180			MAR 4 2026	2026	ObjectivesRetired athletes from aesthetic sports such as rhythmic gymnastics may experience issues related to eating disorders (EDs), body image and musculoskeletal injuries. However, quantitative studies on the long-term effects of participation in retired rhythmic gymnasts are scarce. This study aims to assess the prevalence of EDs, body dissatisfaction, and injuries in former Spanish rhythmic gymnasts, considering years of practice and the competitive level achieved.MethodsA total of 216 former rhythmic gymnasts were recruited through social media and sports clubs. Data were collected via online questionnaires, including the Eating Attitudes Test (EAT-26), the Stunkard Figure Rating Scale to measure body dissatisfaction, and the Nordic Musculoskeletal Questionnaire (NMQ) to assess musculoskeletal injuries.ResultsThe sample had a mean age of 26.3 +/- 8.4 years and an average of 11.7 +/- 3.2 years of practice. A total of 10.6% of participants scored above the threshold on the EAT-26, while 68.1% reported body dissatisfaction. Participants with higher body mass index (BMI) was identified as a predictive factor for showing body dissatisfaction. Lower back pain was the most prevalent musculoskeletal symptom, affecting 83.3% of participants, followed by neck pain (74.5%).ConclusionThe findings suggest that although the prevalence of EDs is relatively low in this sample, body dissatisfaction remains a significant concern, particularly among individuals with higher BMI. Furthermore, lower back pain is highly prevalent among former gymnasts. These results highlight the need for injury prevention strategies and psychological support following athletic retirement.		[Portas-Nunez, Belen] Univ Vigo, Fac Ciencias Educ & Deporte, Pontevedra, Spain; [Blanco-Martinez, Nerea; Sanchez-Lastra, Miguel Adriano; Diz-Gomez, Jose Carlos; Ayan-Perez, Carlos] Galicia Hlth Res Inst IIS Galicia Sur, Well Move Res Grp, SERGAS UVIGO, Vigo, Spain; [Blanco-Martinez, Nerea; Sanchez-Lastra, Miguel Adriano; Diz-Gomez, Jose Carlos] Univ Vigo, Dept Didact Especiais, Vigo 36310, Spain; [Ayan-Perez, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Ciencias Educ & Deporte, CIDEGA, Pontevedra, Spain; [Blanco-Martinez, Nerea] Univ Vigo, Dept Didact Especiais, Vigo 36310, Spain								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001630751700001	52	Article; Article		
J	Halmenschlager, Gustavo Henrique; da Silva, Jefferson Lima; de Salles, Belmiro Freitas; de Oliveira, Liliam Fernandes; da Matta, Thiago Torres								Eccentric muscle damage in elbow flexors: Free weights vs isokinetic dynamometer in trained men								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251394258				2025	Eccentric exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD) is commonly assessed using isokinetic dynamometer in research; however, their limited accessibility necessitates exploration of alternative resistance modalities, such as free weights. This study compared the magnitude and time course of EIMD in the elbow flexors following eccentric exercises using either free weights or an isokinetic dynamometer in trained men. Seventeen resistance-trained males (>3 years experience) were randomly assigned to free weights (n = 8) or isokinetic dynamometer (n = 9) groups and performed four sets of 10 maximal eccentric contractions. EIMD was assessed using maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC), delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS), muscle thickness, and echo intensity at baseline, immediately postexercise, and across 96 h of recovery. Significant time effects were observed for MVIC (-37% immediately post, -18% at 96 h) and DOMS (similar to 4 cm increase) in both groups (p < 0.001), with no significant group differences or interactions (p > 0.05). Muscle thickness increased transiently (similar to 12% postexercise; p < 0.001), whereas echo intensity remained unchanged (p > 0.285). Although statistical differences were absent between the modalities, the magnitude of functional decline (-20-50% MVIC) and DOMS increases are practically relevant for coaches and practitioners, as they provide guidance for planning eccentric training and managing recovery. These findings indicate that free weights eccentric training using 140% of concentric 10RM induces muscle damage comparable to that of isokinetic protocols. Free weights thus represents a viable and accessible option for coaches seeking to apply eccentric loading in trained individuals, provided sufficient recovery is ensured.		[Halmenschlager, Gustavo Henrique; da Silva, Jefferson Lima; de Oliveira, Liliam Fernandes; da Matta, Thiago Torres] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Phys Educ & Sports Sch, Dept Biosci, Muscle Biomech Lab, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [de Salles, Belmiro Freitas] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Dept Biosci, Strength Training Lab, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Liliam Fernandes] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Biomed Engn Program, Biomech Lab, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Halmenschlager, Gustavo Henrique] Natl Inst Traumatol & Orthoped, Lab Neuromuscular Res & Exercise Physiol Rio De Ja, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Halmenschlager, Gustavo Henrique] Av Carlos Chagas Filho 540, BR-21941599 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001631074300001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Buyukluoglu, Gokhan; Cavis, Tugba; Ataoglu, Buse; Ercan, Sabriye; Orscelik, Aydan; Cuce, Ferhat; Kocahan, Tugba								Measurement of specific shoulder joint distances with handheld and conventional ultrasound: a reliability and agreement study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	2			124	131		10.1080/00913847.2025.2597177			MAR 4 2026	2026	ObjectivesUltrasonography is a widely accepted imaging method for evaluating anatomical structures around the shoulder joint. However, the consistency of measurements across different devices and operators remains a critical issue for clinical and research validity. The aim of this study is to assess the inter-device and intra-operator reliability of ultrasound-based measurements of four key anatomical shoulder distances and to establish normative reference values in a healthy population.MethodsA total of 195 healthy volunteers (390 shoulders) underwent ultrasonographic evaluation of the acromioclavicular distance (AC), coracoclavicular distance (CC), acromiohumeral distance (AH), and coracohumeral distance (CH). Two physicians, TC (radiologist) and GB (sports medicine), performed the measurements independently using two different ultrasound machines: Siemens S3000 and C10X, respectively. To assess intra-rater temporal reliability, all measurements were repeated on the same participants after two weeks. Stratified sex-matched randomization was applied during participant recruitment.ResultsAC, AH, and CH ultrasound measurements showed intra- and inter-rater reliability with minimal bias and acceptable limits of agreement, indicating good consistency and interchangeability. In contrast, CC measurements exhibited significant inter-rater differences (p = 0.034 and p = 0.023) and wide limits of agreement, reflecting greater variability and limited interchangeability.ConclusionGiven their consistent performance across statistical methods, AC, AH, and CH measurements may be used interchangeably across different raters or sessions, particularly in clinical or research settings where reliable reproducibility is essential. However, due to its high inter-rater variability and broad limits of agreement, CC measurements are not recommended for interchangeable use between evaluators or devices.		[Buyukluoglu, Gokhan; Ataoglu, Buse; Orscelik, Aydan; Kocahan, Tugba] Hlth Sci Univ, Gulhane Med Fac, Dept Sports Med, Gulhane Ave, TR-06010 Kecioren, Ankara, Turkiye; [Cavis, Tugba; Cuce, Ferhat] Univ Hlth Sci Turkiye, Gulhane Training & Res Hosp, Clin Radiol, Ankara, Turkiye; [Ercan, Sabriye] Suleyman Demirel Univ, Med Fac, Dept Sports Med, Isparta, Turkiye; [Buyukluoglu, Gokhan] Hlth Sci Univ, Gulhane Med Fac, Dept Sports Med, Gulhane Ave, TR-06010 Kecioren, Ankara, Turkiye								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001629071300001	29	Article; Article		
J	Gunaydin, Huseyin; Ugurlu, Beyza; Kahraman, Umit; Kocahan, Tugba								Injury epidemiology in the Türkiye Open 2025 taekwondo tournament: a study of 2068 athletes from 60 countries								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	2			110	116		10.1080/00913847.2025.2597175			MAR 4 2026	2026	ObjectiveThe aim of this retrospective study was to determine the injury incidences, types, locations, mechanisms, and results after injuries during the T & uuml;rkiye Open 2025 Taekwondo Tournament and to identify differences between competition categories.MethodsThe tournament occurred in Antalya from February 8-16, 2025. A total of 2068 athletes from 60 countries participated in para taekwondo (PT), seniors (SC), juniors (JC), and cadets (CC) categories, with 1919 matches held. Injuries encountered by athletes were recorded by two sports medicine physicians using the International Olympic Committee (IOC) 'Daily Medical Report on Injuries and Illnesses' form. We defined an injury as an injury that occurs when the referee stops play and calls the medical team to the field. Injury incidence rates (IRs) were calculated per 1000 matches, per 1000 athlete-exposures (AEs), per 100 athletes (clinical incidence). Injury incidence rate ratios (IRRs) with 95% confidence intervals were calculated and compared regarding categories.ResultsA total of 147 injuries occurred during the matches: 18 in PT Kyorugi (K44), 39 in SC, 47 in JC, and 43 in CC. The IRs were as follows: PT K44: 211.7/1,000 matches, 19.14/100 athletes, 105,88/1000 AEs; SC: 84.4/1,000 matches, 8.2/100 athletes, 42,57/1000 AEs; JC: 63.8/1,000 matches, 6.21/100 athletes, 31,92/1000 AEs; CC: 67.6/1,000 matches, 6.28/100 athletes, 30,28/1000 AEs. PT had a significantly higher IRs compared to other categories. There were statistically significant differences between the genders of the injured athletes when the four categories were compared. Contusion was the most common type of injury across all categories, and the most frequent injury mechanism was contact with another athlete. In all categories, athletes continued to compete in the majority of injuries.ConclusionThe findings of this study provide valuable insights into the injury epidemiology observed in international PT and taekwondo matches. Notably, the IRs was highest in the PT compared to other categories. These results may contribute to the enhancement of protective equipment design and the development of targeted injury prevention strategies aimed at reducing injury rates across all competitive levels especially in para taekwondo athletes.		[Gunaydin, Huseyin; Ugurlu, Beyza; Kahraman, Umit] Univ Hlth Sci, Gulhane Training & Res Hosp, Sports Med Clin, TR-06010 Ankara, Turkiye; [Kocahan, Tugba] Univ Hlth Sci, Gulhane Fac Med, Dept Sports Med, Ankara, Turkiye; [Gunaydin, Huseyin] Univ Hlth Sci, Gulhane Training & Res Hosp, Sports Med Clin, TR-06010 Ankara, Turkiye								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001629100300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Nose-ogura, Sayaka; Kawabe, Rika; Kashiwagi, Yumiko; Senzaki, Yoko; Nakamura, Yuki; Nakamura, Mariko; Tomori, Anna; Shirai, Katsuyoshi; Nakajima, Kohei								Trends in the use of oral contraceptives and progestins in Japanese female Olympic athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	2			101	109		10.1080/00913847.2025.2597173			MAR 4 2026	2026	Objectives Long-term trends in the use of oral contraceptives or progestin preparations in elite female athletes and the types of hormonal preparations are unclear. This study aimed to examine longitudinal changes in the prevalence and types of hormonal preparations used by Japanese female Olympians over 16 years. Methods This retrospective cohort study analyzed pre-participation medical examination questionnaires, including age, sport, and whether participants were taking prescribed hormonal preparations, from all Japanese female athletes selected for nine consecutive Olympic Games (Beijing 2008-Paris 2024). Data on the use and specific type of oral contraceptives (OCs) and progestin-only preparations were extracted. Temporal trends were assessed using weighted logistic regression models. Results The total number of female athletes who competed in the past nine Olympic Games was 1,227. The prevalence of hormonal preparation use increased more than six-fold, from 4.7% at Beijing 2008 to a peak of 36.0% at Beijing 2022 (29.3% at Paris 2024). A weighted logistic regression confirmed a significant trend, with the odds of use increasing 1.67-fold per four-year Olympic cycle (95% CI 1.48-1.89, p < 0.001). A significant shift occurred from OCs containing >= 30 <mu>g of ethinylestradiol (EE) to those containing 20 mu g of EE, and from desogestrel-based OCs to those containing drospirenone and norethisterone. Progestin-only preparations were first reported at Rio 2016, with their use increasing thereafter. Conclusion The number of elite-level female athletes in Japan using hormone preparations has increased significantly over the past 16 years, and the types of preparations used have also diversified. This trend highlights the growing importance of gynecological support in elite sports. Future research should focus on the potential performance and health effects of the newer-generation formulations that are now predominantly used.		[Nose-ogura, Sayaka; Kawabe, Rika; Kashiwagi, Yumiko; Senzaki, Yoko; Tomori, Anna; Nakajima, Kohei] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Japan High Performance Sport Ctr, Dept Sports Med, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka,Kita Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Nakamura, Yuki; Nakamura, Mariko; Shirai, Katsuyoshi] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Japan High Performance Sport Ctr, Dept Sport Sci & Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Nose-ogura, Sayaka] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Japan High Performance Sport Ctr, Dept Sports Med, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka,Kita Ku, Tokyo, Japan								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001629129700001	42	Article; Article		
J	Valdivia, Luca M.; Jain, Charu; Balachandran, Uma; Koehne, Niklas H.; Yu, Jennifer; White, Christopher A.; Capotosto, Salvatore; Parsons, Bradford O.; Forsh, David A.; Parisien, Robert L.								Youth and adolescent male ice hockey players at increased risk of fractures: a 20-year analysis of national injury data								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	2			132	139		10.1080/00913847.2025.2597178			MAR 4 2026	2026	ObjectivesIce hockey is a high-impact sport that can put athletes in high-risk situations for injuries. While the game has shifted toward speed over physicality, fractures remain a major concern. Therefore, it would be valuable to observe whether this had an effect on fracture rates in men's ice hockey. The purpose of this study was to examine the frequency and trends of fractures sustained in men's ice hockey in the United States.MethodsAll men's ice hockey-related fractures presented to United States EDs from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2023 were queried using the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS). For each fracture, patient disposition, demographics, and injury site were recorded. National estimates (NE) were calculated using the NEISS statistical sample weight. Injury trends were evaluated by linear regression modeling.ResultsA NE of 58,910 ice hockey-related fractures occurred among male players between 2004 and 2023. There was a qualitative decrease in annual fractures (p = 0.208) from 2004 to 2023. There was a significant decrease from 2004 to 2019 (p = 0.001) followed by a 172.6% increase to a record high number of fractures in 2022 (NE = 3,953). The hand was the most commonly fractured part of the body (NE = 17,400, 29.5%). All body regions, except the leg, saw increases in annual injury frequency, including record highs for head, trunk, and shoulder fractures. Adolescents (ages 13-19 years) had the highest fracture rates (56.6%) amongst age groups. Fracture hospitalization rate was 5.5% overall (NE = 3,264).ConclusionsWhile the overall number of fractures amongst male ice hockey players decreased yearly until the COVID-19 pandemic, a sharp increase in fractures was observed, reaching a record high in 2022. Additionally, the hand was the most commonly fractured part of the body, and adolescents have the highest risk of fractures from ice hockey.		[Valdivia, Luca M.; Jain, Charu; Balachandran, Uma; Koehne, Niklas H.; Yu, Jennifer; White, Christopher A.; Capotosto, Salvatore; Parsons, Bradford O.; Forsh, David A.; Parisien, Robert L.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5 East 98th St,9th Floor, New York, NY 10029 USA; [Valdivia, Luca M.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5 East 98th St,9th Floor, New York, NY 10029 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001628543100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Zorlular, Ali; Zorlular, Rabia								Evaluating online video platforms for dynamic balance exercises: a focus on YouTube								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	2			147	154		10.1080/00913847.2025.2597183			MAR 4 2026	2026	ObjectivesThe objective of this study was to evaluate the content, reliability and quality of YouTube (R) videos related to dynamic balance exercise training.Methods'Dynamic balance exercises' was searched on YouTube in English in August 2025, and a total of 91 videos were watched. The videos were categorized based on their content features and source of upload. The reliability of the information was assessed using the modified DISCERN (mDISCERN) tool, while video quality was evaluated through the Global Quality Scale (GQS) and the JAMA benchmark criteria. Two physiotherapists with expertise in sports rehabilitation independently reviewed each video. In cases of discrepancy, a third independent evaluator provided the final judgment to ensure objectivity. (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT07117734).ResultsThe findings indicate that among the 91 exercise videos focusing on dynamic balance exercises, 69 (76%) were classified as useful, while 22 (24%) contained inaccurate information. mDISCERN, GQS and JAMA scores exhibited statistically significant differences based on the source of the video (p = 0.001, p = 0.001 and p = 0.001 respectively). It was observed that videos uploaded by healthcare providers demonstrated greater quality and reliability. Additionally, the linear regression analysis revealed no significant associations between the GQS, mDISCERN, and JAMA scores and the Video Power Index (VPI). Inter-rater reliability, assessed using Cohen's kappa, showed moderate agreement for mDISCERN (0.503), GQS (0.549), and JAMA (0.528).ConclusionWhile the majority of videos were useful, a portion still contained misleading information. Commonly used metrics such as VPI and view ratio do not necessarily reflect content accuracy. Therefore, paying attention to the credentials or professional background of video creators may help users access higher-quality and more reliable content.		[Zorlular, Ali; Zorlular, Rabia] Nigde Omer Halisdemir Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Nigde, Turkiye; [Zorlular, Ali] Nigde Omer Halisdemir Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, TR-51700 Nigde, Turkiye								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001628532800001	36	Article; Article		
J	Marques, Fernando; Sousa, Ana; Barbosa, Belem								Factors influencing fan token purchase intent in sports fandom								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	6			16	35		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2025-0231			DEC 14 2026	2026	PurposeWithin the sports industry, fan tokens have appeared as an instrument for fostering fan engagement and empowering them to participate in club-related decision-making processes via voting mechanisms (e.g. voting rights in decisions like the design of the equipment or the bus, and the ability to win rewards such as VIP experiences with the players).Design/methodology/approachDrawing on the technology acceptance model and consumer behaviour theories, a conceptual model was established to analyse the relationship of perceived ease of use, usefulness, and financial value, brand love, brand engagement, trust, social influence and its influence on the intention to purchase fan tokens. This study also analyses the generation of positive electronic word-of-mouth (e-WOM) derived from the intention to purchase fan tokens. To achieve the proposed objective, a quantitative study was conducted, collecting data through an online survey from football fans with an interest in fan tokens. The conceptual model was analysed using partial least squares (PLS) structural equation modelling (SEM).FindingsResults show that the financial perceived value was the dimension that most contributed to explaining the purchase intention. It was also found that perceived ease of use, trust in fan tokens and brand engagement positively influence the intention to buy fan tokens. Furthermore, findings demonstrate that purchase intention positively drives e-WOM, highlighting that fans' behavioural intentions extend beyond adoption to active digital advocacy.Originality/valueResults offer effective insights for both researchers and sports practitioners, while also presenting an original conceptual model applicable to diverse sports contexts and crypto assets-related research.		[Marques, Fernando] Univ Porto, Sch Econ & Management, Porto, Portugal; [Sousa, Ana] Univ Aveiro, Res Unit Governance Competitiveness & Publ Pol, GOVCOPP, Aveiro, Portugal; [Barbosa, Belem] Univ Porto, Sch Econ & Management, Ctr Econ & Finance UPorto cef up, Porto, Portugal; [Sousa, Ana] Univ Aveiro, Res Unit Governance Competitiveness & Publ Pol, GOVCOPP, Aveiro, Portugal								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001626947200001	88	Article; Article		
J	Choi, Myoung Kyoung; Lee, Joon Sung								The impact of parasocial interaction with anthropomorphized AI chatbots on sport consumers' loyalty								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	4			713	730		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2024-0265			DEC 2 2025	2025	PurposeAs sport organizations increasingly adopt artificial intelligence (AI)-driven services, effective management is necessary. This study explored how anthropomorphized artificial intelligence chatbots in the sport industry enhance social presence to boost consumer loyalty and reduce technology anxiety (TNX) and the mediating role of TNX in modifying user attitudes.Design/methodology/approachBased on parasocial interaction (PSI) and social exchange theory (SET), the design utilized anthropomorphization to investigate interactions, verifying whether social exchanges occur through chatbots. For this, an experimental study using AI chatbots was conducted.Findings(1) Anthropomorphism influences social presence and facilitates the PSI process. (2) From the SET perspective, social presence negatively affects the costs associated with TNX and positively influences loyalty. (3) TNX partially mediates this relationship, indicating that although TNX can decrease user loyalty, heightened social presence may reduce anxiety and enhance loyalty.Originality/valueThis study demonstrates that social presence goes beyond simply enhancing the user experience by reducing users' TNX. It extends the PSI theory by applying it to user interactions with AI chatbots and utilizes SET to analyze these interactions as exchanges. These findings provide practical outcomes that can be applied in sport marketing, offering real-world implications for enhancing user engagement and managing consumer relations using AI technologies.		[Choi, Myoung Kyoung; Lee, Joon Sung] Yonsei Univ, Dept Sport Ind Studies, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Joon Sung] Yonsei Univ, Dept Sport Ind Studies, Seoul, South Korea								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001628056300002	71	Article; Article		
J	Conde-Ripoll, Rafael; Martin-Miguel, Ivan; Bustamante-Sanchez, Alvaro; Llanos-Garcia, Maria Belen; Garcia-Sanchez, Jose Manuel; Escudero-Tena, Adrian								Bridging the gap: A sex-based examination of shot types and effectiveness in professional padel								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2540	2550		10.1177/17479541251348161			DEC 2025	2025	This study examines shot distribution and effectiveness in men's and women's professional padel. The variables sex, type of shot and effectiveness of 19,509 shots corresponding to 12 matches were analyzed through descriptive (frequency and percentage) and inferential analyses (Chi-square (chi 2), Cramer's V (Vc) or corrected standard residuals (CSR)). Results showed that in both sexes, the most executed shots are bandeja, backhand volley, forehand volley, forehand and backhand. Although most of the shots are continuous, many winners or forced error generators are made with the smash, forehand volley, backhand volley, bandeja (only women) and recovery smash (only men). Similarly, both male and female players demonstrate a propensity for unforced or forced errors when executing the bandeja, forehand volley, backhand volley, forehand, or backhand. Conversely, male playeres exhibit a higher rate of winners (men: 39.6%; women: 34.6%), while female players display a higher frequency of unforced errors (men: 39.3%; women: 43.9%), with no disparity noted in the proportion of forced errors (men: 21.1%; women: 21.5%). Particularly, male players tend to produce winners, generators of forced error, continuity shots, forced errors and unforced errors using a distinct typology of shots compared to female players, perhaps due to physical or anthropometric differences or differences in their style of play. In conclusion, this study highlights sex-based differences in professional padel technical-tactical actions occurrence and effectiveness.		[Conde-Ripoll, Rafael; Bustamante-Sanchez, Alvaro; Llanos-Garcia, Maria Belen; Garcia-Sanchez, Jose Manuel; Escudero-Tena, Adrian] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sports Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Martin-Miguel, Ivan; Escudero-Tena, Adrian] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Escudero-Tena, Adrian] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001508828900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Wu, Chia-Wen; Huang, Chun-Hao; Chang, Nai-Jen								Vibration Rolling, Non-Vibration Rolling, and Static Stretching for Delayed-Onset Muscle Soreness on Physiological Changes and Recovery of Athletic Performance in Runners								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				25	1			149	158		10.52082/jssm.2026.149			MAR 2026	2026	This study examined the effects of vibrating foam rollers (VR) on delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS), inflammatory response, and athletic performance. Eighteen experienced adult runners (average running experience: 6 years) participated in a crossover study with three recovery interventions: vibrating roller (VR), non-vibrating roller (NVR), and static stretching (SS). DOMS was induced through downhill treadmill running. Each intervention targeted four muscle groups bilaterally (gluteal, anterior/posterior thigh, anterior/posterior calf) for 30 seconds per group using a vibration frequency of 28 Hz for the VR condition. Blood samples were taken at baseline (T0), 24 hours (T24), and 48 hours (T48) post-exercise to assess creatine kinase (CK), C-reactive protein (CRP), and interleukin-6 (IL-6). Lower limb flexibility, muscle stiffness, vertical jump performance, and Y-balance test (YBT) were also measured. Eleven participants experienced DOMS and completed studies. No significant interaction effects were observed for any outcome variable. Hamstrings flexibility, YBT scores, and CK levels showed significant time effects, indicating natural recovery over 48 hours. Group differences in CK and YBT remained unchanged over time, indicating no intervention was more effective. In addition, muscle stiffness, jump performance, CRP, and IL-6 levels did not differ between interventions. VR, NVR, and SS produced similar short-term recovery outcomes, with no intervention showing clear superiority. Overall, the changes observed within 48 hours reflected general physiological recovery rather than distinct benefits from any specific intervention.		[Wu, Chia-Wen; Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Dept Sports Med, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Huang, Chun-Hao] Georgia State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth, Atlanta, GA USA; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Coll Med, PhD Program Biomed Engn, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ Hosp, Dept Med Res, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Precis Sports Med & Hlth Promot Ctr, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Dept Sports Med, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Coll Med, PhD Program Biomed Engn, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ Hosp, Dept Med Res, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Precis Sports Med & Hlth Promot Ctr, Kaohsiung, Taiwan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001641038300001	57	Article; Article		
J	Koschel, Tessa L.								Perinatal Periodization: Trimester Phased Training for Beginner to Elite Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	6			657	677		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000921			DEC 2025	2025	This article introduces a periodization model designed for beginner to elite perinatal athletes, emphasizing trimester-phased training aligning with gestation, delivery, and postpartum needs. Amid progressing global recommendations on perinatal exercise and increasing female participation in high-intensity and strength training, the primary aim is to propose an evidence-based, structured approach to training that consolidates these trends. The physical and psychological demands of labor mirrors that of an athletic endeavor. As such, this article explores emerging evidence supporting maternal and fetal safety and benefit of high-intensity training, allowing pregnant individuals to prepare in accordance with the task ahead. Training phases parallel to preseason, in-season, peaking, and recovery shift in focus based on the physiological need and biomechanical necessity within the pregnancy timeline. This translation of science to practice underscores the potential for tailored training programs to positively impact maternal, fetal, and neonatal health, urging further research and unified guidelines in this evolving field.		[Koschel, Tessa L.] Fitness Therapy & Consulting, Eugene, OR 97401 USA; [Koschel, Tessa L.] Univ Denver, Grad Sch Profess Psychol, Denver, CO 80210 USA; [Koschel, Tessa L.] Fitness Therapy & Consulting, Eugene, OR 97401 USA; [Koschel, Tessa L.] Univ Denver, Grad Sch Profess Psychol, Denver, CO 80210 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001631979800006	97	Article; Article		
J	Diaz-Ochoa, Alejandro; Dietze-Hermosa, Martin; Montalvo, Samuel								Advancing Strength and Conditioning Practices for Collegiate Female Flag Football: A Narrative Review and Practical Framework								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	6			648	656		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000922			DEC 2025	2025	Flag football, a noncontact adaptation of American football, is rapidly gaining international traction and has recently been selected for inclusion in the 2028 Los Angeles Olympic Games. Despite this momentum, research-based guidelines addressing the unique physiological requirements, training methods, and academic considerations for collegiate female flag football athletes remain sparse. This narrative review examines current knowledge on female-specific strength and conditioning practices by (a) highlighting key differences between female flag football and male American football, (b) underscoring the importance of tailored periodization models, and (c) exploring injury prevention strategies. Core themes include optimizing body composition, enhancing speed and agility, refining energy systems training, and adapting schedules to academic demands. The article concludes by identifying research gaps and proposing a forward-thinking agenda that leverages data-driven approaches, interdisciplinary collaboration, and athlete-centered practices. These steps can foster the health, performance, and long-term development of female collegiate flag football athletes as they prepare for the sport's Olympic debut.		[Diaz-Ochoa, Alejandro] Autonomous Univ Nuevo Leon, Fac Sports Org, San Nicolas De Los Garza, Nuevo Leon, Mexico; [Dietze-Hermosa, Martin] Brigham Young Univ Idaho, Dept Human Performance & Recreat, Rexburg, ID USA; [Montalvo, Samuel] Stanford Univ, Stanford Sch Med, Div Cardiovasc Med, Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance, Stanford, CA 94305 USA; [Montalvo, Samuel] Stanford Univ, Stanford Sch Med, Div Cardiovasc Med, Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance, Stanford, CA 94305 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001631979800005	50	Article; Article		
J	Gundersen, Andreas H.; Krosshaug, Tron; Mausehund, Lasse; Van Den Tillaar, Roland; Larsen, Stian								The impact of grip width on kinetics and kinematics in the shoulder press among resistance-trained men								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	6			841	854		10.1080/14763141.2025.2590028			JUN 3 2026	2026	This study investigated the impact of grip width on kinematics and kinetics in the seated barbell shoulder press among resistance-trained men. Eleven participants (age: 25.9 +/- 3.1 years, height: 180.4 +/- 5.4 cm, body mass: 87.0 +/- 7.9 kg) performed eight repetitions to failure with a narrow, medium and wide grip width. Statistical parametric mapping was used to analyse kinematics and kinetics during the entire concentric phase of the last repetition. The main findings revealed that narrower grips increased both load lifted, and shoulder, and elbow range of motion. Moreover, grip width influenced horizontal barbell forces throughout 100% of the lift, and joint kinetics during the initial 64% of the lift. Wider grips increased lateral barbell forces and reduced elbow net joint moments (NJMs), while narrower grips increased medial forces and reduced shoulder NJMs. These findings suggest that grip width modulates joint kinematics, NJMs and lateral barbell forces during the shoulder press. Based on our findings, practitioners can make technical adjustments according to individual training goals, or tailor execution to minimise pain or injury risk. For example, by increasing or decreasing loading of a specific joint or altering joint ROM according to the athlete's or patient's needs.		[Gundersen, Andreas H.; Van Den Tillaar, Roland; Larsen, Stian] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway; [Krosshaug, Tron; Mausehund, Lasse] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Sports Med, Oslo, Norway; [Gundersen, Andreas H.] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Levanger, Norway								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001629937200001	28	Article; Article		
J	Li, Zhaoqian; Li, Ruixuan; Zheng, Jintong; Chen, Zongwei; Zhang, Xing; Bai, Junbei								Impact of Training Frequency on Mechanical Output and Perceived Exertion of Resistance Training with Velocity Loss Monitoring								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			861	870		10.52082/jssm.2025.861			DEC 2025	2025	This study investigated how different weekly resistance training frequencies affect mechanical output and perceived exertion under velocity loss (VL) monitoring when the total number of sets per week was fixed. Fourteen well-trained male subjects participated in a repeated-measures design in which all participants performed three training frequency conditions (four, three, or two sessions per week) in randomized order. Each condition involved 12 total sets of back squats at 80% one repetition maximum (1RM) with a 20% VL, the total training sets evenly distributed across sessions. The results indicated that increasing training frequency allowed for lower perceived exertion (p = 0.005). Furthermore, the frequency of four sessions per week did not compromise velocity output or repetition performed in the following sets for within-session comparison (p >= 0.125), whereas the other two frequencies resulted in compromised performance with increasing numbers of sets performed. The frequency of three sessions per week resulted in a significant decrease in the following set, as shown in the number of repetitions performed per set (N-set) (Delta = 8%,p = 0.003) and the average set mean velocity (MVaverage) (Delta = 4%, p = 0.013) in the last set compared with the first set. The frequency of four sessions per week resulted in lower N-set (Delta = 17%), MVaverage (Delta = 8%), and fastest mean velocity (Delta = 7%) and last mean velocity (Delta = 9%) of the set in the last set compared with the first set (0.001 <= p <= 0.033). All training frequencies allowed adequate recovery from the frequency arrangement and did not impact performance in the subsequent session. Overall, under a fixed number of sets performed weekly, increasing training frequency helped preserve velocity output and repetitions performed within-session when using 80% 1RM and 20% VL, while also reducing perceived exertion. It is recommended that athletes distribute strength training more evenly across the week rather than concentrating it into fewer days when pursuing better mechanical output and lower perceived exertion.		[Li, Zhaoqian; Chen, Zongwei; Zhang, Xing] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Li, Ruixuan] China Univ Geosci, Sch Phys Educ, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Jintong] Wuhan Sports Univ, Sch Sports Med, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Bai, Junbei] Beijing Res Inst Sports Sci, Competit Sports 4 Room, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Bai, Junbei] Beijing Res Inst Sports Sci, Competit Sports 4 Room, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001592171400001	41	Article; Article		
J	Bouvet, Antoine; Bideau, Nicolas								Distinctive Regulation Profiles of Stroke Mechanics Underlie Pacing and Discriminate 400 m Front-Crawl Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			891	900		10.52082/jssm.2025.891			DEC 2025	2025	This study aims to identify the stroke mechanics regulations that underlie pacing optimization and differentiate final performance in the 400 m front-crawl across different performance levels. 157 all-out 400 m trials from trained to elite swimmers equipped with a sacrum worn IMU were analyzed. Hierarchical generalized additive models were fitted to describe (1) the technical predictors of final performance, through the interrelationships between averaged kinematics (i.e., stroke rate (SR), stroke length (SL), jerk cost (JC)) and mean speed, and (2), the profiles of pacing and associated stroke mechanics regulations leading to performance. These models depict both the common patterns shared by all swimmers and the specific group deviations by performance level (G1 -slowest- to G4 -fastest-) from population trends. All swimmers shared a reverse-J-shaped pacing (p < 0.001). The fastest swimmers reduce pacing variability with a relatively slower start, a minimized drop in speed in the middle of the race, and a greater end-spurt than the population trend (p < 0.05). Their stroke mechanics are effectively adapted to the requirements of such specific race sections, both through a U-shaped JC with higher magnitude (p < 0.001) and a continuous adaptation of the SR (p < 0.01) and SL (p < 0.01) combination. A high average SL (i.e., at least 1.50 m.stroke(-1)), coupled with an SR close to 70 strokes.min(-1) and maximizing stroke smoothness at race pace, are critical technical abilities for optimizing final performance. Technical training should prioritize the reduction of intra-cyclic acceleration variations at race pace as a key driver of 400 m performance development. The best performers lower pacing variability by amplifying the magnitude of kinematic regulations, particularly in terms of stroke smoothness management. Such underlying adaptations in stroke mechanics play a pivotal role in continuous speed control throughout the race. The findings of this study enhance the technical understanding of discriminative 400 m pacing skills for coaches and swimmers.		[Bouvet, Antoine; Bideau, Nicolas] Univ Rennes 2, M2S Lab Movement Sport & Hlth, ENS Rennes, F-35170 Bruz, France; [Bouvet, Antoine] ComBo Biomech Lant, Campus Beaulieu, Rennes, France; [Bouvet, Antoine] ENSAI, Ctr Res Econ & Stat, CREST, Rennes, Bruz, France; [Bouvet, Antoine] Univ Rennes 2, M2S Lab Movement Sport & Hlth, ENS Rennes, F-35170 Bruz, France								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001592922500001	55	Article; Article		
J	Tan, Bo; Hu, Anqiang; Zheng, Yafei								The Impact of Weekly Acceleration and Deceleration Loads on Neuromuscular Performance in Soccer: A Session-to-Session Analysis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			851	860		10.52082/jssm.2025.851			DEC 2025	2025	This study examined weekly variations in accelerations, decelerations, and neuromuscular performance in male under-19 soccer players. It also explored the relationship between accumulated acceleration and deceleration loads and fluctuations in neuromuscular performance across a weekly microcycle. A repeated-measures observational design was used over two consecutive weeks, involving 39 outfield players monitored via Global Navigation Satellite Systems. Neuromuscular performance was assessed through countermovement jump (CMJ), hamstring strength (HS), and delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS), measured both before and after training on five days each week, following a consistent training structure. Significant post-training reductions in CMJ (all days p < 0.001) and HS (all days p < 0.001) were observed, with the greatest impairments occurring on MD-4 and MD-5, although CMJ showed a slight rebound on MD-5 compared to MD-4. DOMS ratings peaked on MD-3 (F = 39.186, p < 0.001), indicating a buildup of midweek fatigue. The highest numbers of accelerations (F = 248.121, p < 0.001) and decelerations (F = 227.853, p < 0.001) occurred on MD-4 and MD-5. However, no statistically significant correlations were found between daily acceleration/deceleration counts and changes in CMJ or HS performance. These findings suggest that while neuromuscular performance declines progressively throughout the week, no statistically significant correlations were found between impairments and the acceleration or deceleration load of individual training sessions. Instead, the cumulative effect and timing of high-intensity training may play a more substantial role in contributing to fatigue and neuromuscular decline.		[Tan, Bo] Geely Univ China, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Chengdu 641400, Peoples R China; [Hu, Anqiang] Sichuan Tourism Univ, Chengdu 610100, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Yafei] ChengDu Sports Univ, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China; [Hu, Anqiang] Sichuan Tourism Univ, Chengdu 610100, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001592170500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Lin, Yi; Li, Shudong; Yang, Luqi; Zhou, Zhanyi; Baker, Julien S.; Gu, Yaodong								Coordination Patterns of The Swimming Start: A Comparative Study Between Elite and Sub-Elite Swimmers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			801	812		10.52082/jssm.2025.801			DEC 2025	2025	This study investigated upper-lower body coordination during the swimming start. Coupling angle mapping was applied to assess segmental dominance, coupling angle, and coupling angle variability across four dive-start phases in elite and sub-elite swimmers. Data were collected from twenty swimmers (ten elite and ten sub-elite), based on their three fastest maximal-effort dive starts. The continuous entry movement from air to water was captured in detail using a high-speed multi-camera system positioned above and below the water. Results demonstrated that coordination patterns varied across the four phases, with high similarity when the thigh dominated, such as during the flight phase. Notably, coordination during the on-block phase differed significantly prior to hand-off. Elite swimmers exhibited greater trunk dominance in the entry phase, facilitating a more horizontal dive-in, whereas sub-elite swimmers showed trunk dominance later, during the transition phase. In conclusion, the time required to reach a specific distance or phase does not necessarily indicate superior start performance. Swimmers must balance drag minimization during the dive-in trajectory with rapid entry to initiate stroking. All swimmers maintained a streamlined posture and predominantly employed thigh-dominant strategies, while variations in trunk-dominant coordination were observed during entry and transition phases. Occasional high coupling angle variability in elite swimmers may reflect individualized coordination strategies. These findings highlight the importance of individualised training to optimize start performance.		[Lin, Yi; Li, Shudong; Yang, Luqi; Zhou, Zhanyi; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Baker, Julien S.] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Li, Shudong; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001589398800001	48	Article; Article		
J	Xue, Jinkun; Gao, Wei; Zhang, Caiqi; Peng, Shuang; Chen, Zixuan; Zou, Ruihan; Wu, Weijia; Zhang, Ling; Tang, Wanke; Liu, Wenfeng								A Comparative Study of High-Intensity Flywheel Eccentric Training and Traditional Barbell Training on Athletic Performance in Female Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			824	838		10.52082/jssm.2025.824			DEC 2025	2025	Flywheel eccentric training is a type of training that combines concentric and eccentric contractions by creating inertial resistance with a flywheel device. This study compared the effects of high-intensity flywheel eccentric training and traditional barbell training on the anaerobic capacity and lower-limb strength of female college basketball players. Sixteen female Chinese University Basketball League (CUBAL) athletes from a university were recruited and randomly divided into flywheel eccentric training and traditional barbell training groups, with eight athletes in each group. They underwent two training sessions per week for 8 weeks. The athletes were assessed for their anaerobic capacity (blood lactate concentrations, peak anaerobic power, mean anaerobic power, fatigue index, 30-m sprint, T-test, and 17x15-m shuttle run), and lower-limb strength (1RM back squat, CMJ, peak power output (PPO), and isokinetic muscle strength) before and after the training intervention. After the training intervention, there was a significant difference between the flywheel eccentric training and traditional barbell training groups in each test index when compared to before and after the within-group experiment (P < 0.05). Between groups, there were significant differences in 3 min blood lactate concentrations (P < 0.05, d = 1.09), peak anaerobic power (P < 0.05; d = 1.10), mean anaerobic power (P < 0.05; d = 1.21), fatigue index (P < 0.05; d = 1.20), 30-m sprint (P < 0.05; d = 1.38), T-test (P < 0.05; d = 1.12), 17x15-m shuttle run (P < 0.05; d = 1.31), 1RM back squat (P < 0.05; d = 1.08), CMJ (P < 0.05; d = 1.11), peak power output (PPO) (P < 0.05; d = 1.26), and isokinetic muscle strength (P < 0.05). This study revealed that high-intensity flywheel eccentric training significantly enhanced the players' anaerobic capacity and lower-limb strength and led to better performance than traditional barbell training across all measures.		[Xue, Jinkun; Gao, Wei; Zhang, Caiqi; Peng, Shuang; Chen, Zixuan; Zou, Ruihan; Wu, Weijia; Zhang, Ling; Tang, Wanke; Liu, Wenfeng] Hunan Normal Univ, Hunan Prov Key Lab Phys Fitness & Sports Rehabil, Changsha, Peoples R China; [Liu, Wenfeng] Hunan Normal Univ, Key Lab Prot Chem & Dev Biol, Minist Educ, Changsha, Peoples R China; [Liu, Wenfeng] Hunan Normal Univ, Hunan Prov Key Lab Phys Fitness & Sports Rehabil, Changsha, Peoples R China; [Liu, Wenfeng] Hunan Normal Univ, Key Lab Prot Chem & Dev Biol, Minist Educ, Changsha, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001591243900001	78	Article; Article		
J	de Haan, Michel; van der Zwaard, Stephan; Sanders, Jurrit; Beek, Peter J.; Jaspers, Richard T.								Classifying Soccer Players Based on Physical Capacities and Match-Specific Running Performance Using Machine Learning								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			764	778		10.52082/jssm.2025.764			DEC 2025	2025	Sprint and endurance capacities seem to be mutually exclusive or at least at odds with each other. However, this relationship has not been investigated in soccer, which appeals to both well-developed sprint and endurance capacities. This study explores the potential of machine learning to identify soccer players based on their unique combinations of sprint and endurance capacities and sprint and endurance match-specific running performance. In this context, the relationships between sprint and endurance capacities and between physical capacities and match-specific running performance are examined in detail. Match-specific running data were collected from 31 young elite male soccer players over two consecutive seasons. Additionally, these participants underwent exercise testing, consisting of a 20-meter sprint test and an incremental treadmill test to measure maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max). Subgroups were identified using k-means clustering and subgroup discovery, based on players' sprint and endurance capacities, sprint and endurance match-specific running performance, and playing position. Three distinct subgroups were identified using machine learning: players with high sprint capacity and sprinted meters (n = 4), players with high endurance capacity and meters ran at moderate and high intensities (n = 6), and players without high physical capacities or matching match-specific running performance (n = 14). Across all players, there was no significant relationship between 20-meter sprint speed and normalized VO2max (R2 = 0.085, P = 0.17), although 20-meter sprint speed was positively related to average match sprint distance (R2 = 0.168, P = 0.03) and normalized VO2max to average match distance at moderate and high intensities (R2 = 0.151, P = 0.04). In young elite soccer players, sprint and endurance capacities show positive, moderate, relationships with corresponding match-specific running performance, but those capacities do not appear to be mutually exclusive or opposing. Clustering allows for identification of players who may benefit from alternative strategic roles during matches, are at risk of overuse, or could benefit from individualized training. This method can assist coaches in designing tailored training programs and optimizing overall match strategy.		[de Haan, Michel; van der Zwaard, Stephan; Beek, Peter J.; Jaspers, Richard T.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van der Zwaard, Stephan] Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Univ Med Ctr, Dept Cardiol, AMC, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Sanders, Jurrit] PSV Eindhoven, Eindhoven, Netherlands; [Jaspers, Richard T.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001588703600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Bunn, Jennifer A.; Easley, Dawn								Monitoring Considerations for the Female Athlete								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	6			612	618		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000904			DEC 2025	2025	Athlete monitoring typically incorporates assessing the objective and subjective workload and measurements of wellness or recovery of the athlete. These methods are effective regardless of the sex of the athlete but oftentimes do not include assessment of the female athlete's menstrual cycle (MC). Evidence from teams and individuals indicates that naturally cycling athletes and hormone contraceptive (HC) users may experience some variation in their performance and wellbeing. Female athletes are more likely to have worse subjective stress compared with their male counterparts, and sleep quality and overall wellness can serve as predictors of their daily external load. This paper aims to discuss the considerations to begin and advance the monitoring of female athletes. Coaches will be provided with tools for collecting information about an athlete's training and game performance, wellness, MC, menstrual-related symptoms, HC use, and assessing the potential interplay of all these variables. Discussion of building the team of interested stakeholders and experts for assessing the data will also be provided. Information provided will be useful for teams early in their stages of athlete monitoring, as well as provide concepts for progressing how coaches and teams can advance their monitoring.		[Bunn, Jennifer A.] Sam Houston State Univ, Huntsville, TX 77340 USA; [Easley, Dawn] Campbell Univ, Lillington, NC USA; [Bunn, Jennifer A.] Sam Houston State Univ, Huntsville, TX 77340 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001631979800002	42	Article; Article		
J	Mavili, Caner; Yilmaz, Ekrem; Celik, Huseyin; Unver, Evrim; Arpinar-Avsar, Pinar; Cinemre, Sukru Alpan								Effects of plyometric exercise training with optimal drop heights on reactive strength, maximal strength, and vertical stiffness in junior basketball players: a randomised controlled trial								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	6			807	826		10.1080/14763141.2025.2585284			JUN 3 2026	2026	This study examined the effects of 8 weeks of low-to-moderate intensity plyometric training with optimal drop heights on maximal isometric strength, vertical stiffness, and reactive strength in junior male basketball players. Participants were randomly divided into training (n = 20) and control (n = 20) groups from 3 teams with same division in the state league. Before and after 8 weeks of training, the drop jump (DJ) and isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP) tests were performed to evaluate force-time measures. The optimal drop height was determined as the height that provided the highest reactive strength index (RSI). The ground contact phase during the DJ was divided into 2 subphases, braking and propulsion, for a detailed analysis of force-time curves. The analyses revealed that plyometric training significantly improved RSI (p < 0.001, Cohen's d = 1.507), ground contact (p < 0.001, d=-1.255), braking (p = 0.001, d=-1.066) and propulsion phase (p < 0.001, d=-1.078) time. Significant improvements were observed in the peak vertical ground reaction force (p < 0.001, d = 1.715), peak centre of mass displacement (p = 0.005, d=-0.989), vertical stiffness (p = 0.004, d = 0.983). However, there was no significant difference in the jump height (p = 0.382, d = 0.267) and maximal isometric strength (p = 0.602, d = 0.147). Plyometric training provided improvements in reactive strength, vertical stiffness, but did not improve maximal isometric strength.		[Mavili, Caner; Yilmaz, Ekrem; Unver, Evrim; Cinemre, Sukru Alpan] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Ankara, Turkiye; [Yilmaz, Ekrem] Kirsehir Ahi Evran Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Kirsehir, Turkiye; [Celik, Huseyin; Arpinar-Avsar, Pinar] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Biomech & Motor Control, Ankara, Turkiye; [Mavili, Caner; Cinemre, Sukru Alpan] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Ankara, Turkiye								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001630673100001	70	Article; Article		
J	Forcher, Leander; Forcher, Leon; Altmann, Stefan; Woll, Alexander								The strategy tradeoff between risk and reward in soccer: Expected ball gain and expected possession value in Bundesliga								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251389831				2025	Tactical behavior of soccer players always comes with both risk and reward depending on the outcome of the actions. This is especially true during the often chaotic playing phase of transition following a ball gain/loss, where player actions can highly impact a team's success. Therefore, this study analyses the risks and rewards of transitions, focusing on the objectives of both the defensive and offensive teams. Official tracking and event data of 612 matches played during two Bundesliga seasons (2022/23 and 2023/24) were analyzed. To assess transitions, two separate machine learning models were developed based on over 30 expert-driven features: (i) an expected possession value (EPV) model that predicts the probability of the ball-gaining team to score a goal in the following seconds of the possession, (ii) an expected ball gain (xBG) model that predicts the probability of the ball losing team to regain the ball in the following seconds of the possession. Overall, 220,226 match situations during the 58,868 transitions were analyzed. The resulting EPV (AUC: 0.88) and xBG (AUC: 0.64) models showed satisfactory prediction performance. Based on the combination of both models, the risk and reward of match situations for both teams can be quantified in detail which ultimately assists in analyzing the tactical strategy in offensive and defensive transition. This is illustrated in an in-depth individual player analysis to evaluate tactical player decision-making and determine the influence of the players on the success of a team.		[Forcher, Leander; Altmann, Stefan; Woll, Alexander] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Engler Bunte Ring 15, D-76133 Karlsruhe, Germany; [Forcher, Leander; Forcher, Leon] TSG 1899 Hoffenheim, Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Altmann, Stefan] TSG ResearchLab gGmbH, Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Forcher, Leander] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Engler Bunte Ring 15, D-76133 Karlsruhe, Germany								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001626362900001	53	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bonetti, Breno; Claudino, Joao Gustavo; Fonseca, Fabiano De Souza; Silva, Vinicius Ribeiro; Guerra-Junior, Mauro; Goncalves, Luiz Guilherme; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Aquino, Rodrigo								Can horizontal jump performance using minimal individual differences be used to regulate training load in young soccer players? A randomized controlled trial								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251394001				2025	This randomized controlled trial compared the effects of training load regulation based on horizontal jump (HJ) performance using minimal individual differences (MID) with a pre-planned neuromuscular training control on physical fitness in young soccer players. Nineteen Brazilian youth players were allocated into a regulated group (RG) and a control group (CG). After a familiarization period, HJ reliability was assessed to determine each player's MID, which was then used to guide the RG's training adjustments over six weeks, while the CG followed a traditional training plan. Performance tests included countermovement jump (CMJ), HJ, sprinting (10-30 m), and maximal running speed in the 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test (V-IFT), assessed at baseline (T0), mid- (T1), and post-intervention (T2). Internal load was monitored using session rating of perceived exertion (sRPE), acute-sRPE, monotony-sRPE, and strain-sRPE. At baseline, performance levels were similar between groups. The RG showed a significant improvement in HJ at T2 (T2 > T0; p = 0.042, ES = moderate), while both groups improved in V-IFT at T1 (p < 0.001, ES = moderate-large) and T2 (p < 0.001, ES = moderate). The RG presented more total jumps during training than the CG (p = 0.007, ES = large). In conclusion, regulating training load based on HJ performance and MID approach led to better improvements in HJ distance for the RG compared to traditional training. The findings suggest that coaches and researchers could consider HJ performance-based regulation to adapt and individualize neuromuscular training loads.		[Bonetti, Breno; Silva, Vinicius Ribeiro; Goncalves, Luiz Guilherme; Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Ctr Phys Educ & Sports, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, Res Grp Soccer Sci GECIF,LabSport, Vitoria, Brazil; [Claudino, Joao Gustavo] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Appl Sci, Sports Sci, Campinas, Brazil; [Fonseca, Fabiano De Souza] Univ Fed Rural Pernambuco, Phys Educ Dept, Sport Sci Lab, Recife, Brazil; [Silva, Vinicius Ribeiro; Guerra-Junior, Mauro] Fitness Ctr Anat, Vitoria, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Ctr Phys Educ & Sport CEFD, Ave Fernando Ferrari 514 Goiabeiras, BR-29075910 Vitoria, ES, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001625721000001	42	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dominguez Gonzalez, Jose Antonio; Morales Sanchez, Veronica; Sanchez Garcia, Carolina; Hernandez Mendo, Antonio; Reigal Garrido, Rafael Enrique								The mediating role of achievement goal orientations on the associations between empowering/disempowering climates and the state of flow in young soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251395894				2025	The motivational climate created by coaches influences athletes' experiences of flow. Achievement goal orientations may help explain this relationship, acting as a key link between empowering or disempowering climates and athletes' flow states. The purpose of this research was to analyse the mediating effect of motivational orientation (task and ego) on the relationships between empowering/disempowering motivational climate and the state of flow in a sample of young footballers. An associative and explanatory design was used to analyse the extent to which the athletes' motivational orientation explained the association between the motivational climate created by the coaches and the state of flow. A total of 328 male adolescents, aged between 14 and 18 years (M = 15.83; SD = 1.38), who were affiliated with football teams in the city of M & aacute;laga (Spain) participated. Mediation analyses were performed using Model 4 of SPSS PROCESS v.4.1 software to test the indirect effects of motivational climate on flow through achievement goal orientations. The analyses highlighted statistically significant and positive relationships between the empowering climate and task-oriented motivation, as well as between the disempowering climate and ego-oriented motivation. Additionally, task orientation was more strongly associated with the state of flow and played a partial mediating role between the empowering climate and the state of flow. The results underscore the importance of promoting empowering climates in sports contexts due to their relationship with the promotion of task-oriented motivations and their impact on athletes' states of flow.		[Dominguez Gonzalez, Jose Antonio; Sanchez Garcia, Carolina] Univ Malaga, Malaga, Spain; [Morales Sanchez, Veronica; Hernandez Mendo, Antonio; Reigal Garrido, Rafael Enrique] Univ Malaga, Dept Psicol Social Trabajo Social Serv Sociales &, Malaga, Spain; [Reigal Garrido, Rafael Enrique] Fac Psychol, Teatinos Univ Campus, Malaga, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001624022500001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Al Mohannadi, Salha; Elsharnouby, Tamer H.; Benarfa, Olfa								Investigating the socio-economic impacts of mega sports events on community participation and support: the case of FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-02-2025-0050				2025	Purpose This research investigates the relationship between perceived socio-economic impacts and community participation, as well as residents' support for mega sports events. The study draws on empirical evidence derived from Qatar residents' perceptions of the FIFA World Cup 2022.Design/methodology/approach Survey data from 260 residents of Qatar who attended the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 matches or related events were collected and analyzed using structural equation modeling (SEM).Findings The findings reveal that while community participation is significantly shaped by both perceived social and economic impact, community support is primarily driven by the perceived social impact of the event. A multi-group analysis shows that the effect of perceived social impact and economic impact on community participation is stronger in the male sample compared to the female sample. Furthermore, the effect of perceived social impact on both community participation and community support is stronger in the age group below 35 years compared to the age group above 35 years and the effect of social impact on community participation is stronger in the expatriates' sample compared to the nationals' sample.Practical implications The study provides insights for event organizers and policymakers concerning the factors influencing community participation and support for mega sports events. These results can guide future planning and decision-making, promoting a more inclusive approach to hosting such events.Originality/value This research contributes to the ongoing discussion of mega sports events and their impact on host countries and fills a knowledge gap by understanding the role of post-event perceived socio-economic impact in shaping community participation and support. Unlike prior studies focused on pre-event expectations, it offers original insights into the lasting effects of mega sports events on host communities, using the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 as a case study.		[Al Mohannadi, Salha] Qatar Univ, Coll Business & Econ, Doha, Qatar; [Elsharnouby, Tamer H.; Benarfa, Olfa] Qatar Univ, Coll Business & Econ, Dept Management & Mkt, Doha, Qatar; [Elsharnouby, Tamer H.] Qatar Univ, Coll Business & Econ, Dept Management & Mkt, Doha, Qatar								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001621041100001	85	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kim, Yun Ho; Choi, Chang-Hwan; Oh, Sang-Eun								Relationship between round victories and match outcomes in taekwondo kyorugi: Winning conditions under the best-of-three system								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251395639				2025	Background The adoption of the Best-of-Three system in World Taekwondo Kyorugi represents a major rule change potentially affecting victory conditions. This study analyzes match performance variables to identify the determinants of success under the Best-of-Three system. Methods We analyzed 382 matches (194 men and 188 women) from the 2023 World Taekwondo Championships and Grand Prix. The variables included round results, points scored, points conceded, Gam-jeom, and scoring first. Descriptive statistics, chi-square tests, and independent t-tests were performed (significance was set at p < .05). Results Over 70% of the matches ended within two rounds, with winning both rounds 1 and 2, yielding the highest win probability (men, 68.6%; women, 72.9%). Scoring first was strongly associated with round victories for both sexes (>70%, p < .001). Independent t-tests showed that winners scored significantly more points than losers in all rounds (men: 8.00-10.26 vs. 3.97-5.25; women: 7.31-8.01 vs. 3.21-4.68; all p < .001) and conceded fewer points (men: 4.24-5.89 vs. 8.00-10.12; women: 3.21-4.05 vs. 7.31-8.64; all p < .001). Significant differences in Gam-jeom were found only in Round 1 for men (0.77 vs. 1.02; p = .018). Conclusions Early round wins, scoring first, higher scoring efficiency, limiting both points conceded, and Gam-jeom are critical under the Best-of-Three system. These benchmarks could guide evidence-based training and help develop more effective match strategies.		[Kim, Yun Ho] Sangmyung Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Choi, Chang-Hwan] Kangwon Natl Univ, Gangwon Do 24341, South Korea; [Oh, Sang-Eun] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Seoul 05541, South Korea; [Choi, Chang-Hwan] Kangwon Natl Univ, Gangwon Do 24341, South Korea; [Oh, Sang-Eun] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Seoul 05541, South Korea								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001623165200001	19	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Nose-Ogura, Sayaka; Yoshino, Osamu; Kinoshita, Sakiko; Nakamura-Kamoto, Hiroe; Tabei, Katsuyuki; Komatsu, Takayuki; Hamai, Ayano; Iida, Kengo; Koshimizu, Takako; Nakayama, Haruo; Fujiya, Hiroto; Manabe, Tomohiro; Yamasawa, Fumihiro; Segato Kruse, Joao Gabriel; Kaneko, Miki; Harada, Miyuki; Hiraike, Osamu; Musha, Haruki; Kiyono, Ken; Osuga, Yutaka; Nakajima, Kohei								Development and validation of a pre-screening tool for early detection of low bone mineral density in female athletes (PreST-LBMD)								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	1			63	74		10.1080/00913847.2025.2586448			JAN 2 2026	2026	Background: The prevalence of low bone mineral density (BMD) among female athletes is higher than that among their male counterparts up to 40%. Low BMD increases the risk of stress fractures. Purpose: To examine factors associated with low BMD in female athletes, and to develop, test, and evaluate a Pre-screening Tool for Early Detection of Low BMD in Female Athletes (PreST-LBMD). Method: The development and validation groups (381 and 233 subjects, respectively) underwent a medical interview and a BMD test at the lumbar spine using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). A Z-score < -1 was classified as low BMD. After extracting factors associated with low BMD from univariate logistic regression and multivariate least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analyses, each variable was scored based on the beta coefficients from LASSO regression to create the PreST-LBMD. The development model was validated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Furthermore, using external validation data, sensitivity, negative predictive value (NPV), and area under the curve (AUC) were calculated to evaluate the performance of PreST-LBMD. Result: Factors associated with low BMD included age at menarche, amenorrhea for more than 1 year during the teenage years, current duration of amenorrhea, body mass index, history of stress fractures, and exercise load. The calculated cutoff value for a high likelihood of low BMD was 3 points, with a sensitivity of 0.83 (0.79-0.88), a negative predictive value of 0.85 (0.81-0.90), and an area under the curve of 0.74 (0.67-0.81). Conclusion: We successfully developed the PreST-LBMD, which showed promising results identifying female athletes with low BMD. Those scoring >= 3 should be assessed by DXA and evaluated for the likelihood of low BMD by the athlete's health and performance team.		[Nose-Ogura, Sayaka; Nakajima, Kohei] Japan High Performance Sport Ctr, Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Med, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka,Kita ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Kinoshita, Sakiko; Nakamura-Kamoto, Hiroe; Harada, Miyuki] Univ Tokyo, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Tokyo, Japan; [Yoshino, Osamu; Hiraike, Osamu; Osuga, Yutaka] Univ Yamanashi, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Yamanashi, Japan; [Tabei, Katsuyuki] Univ Tokyo, Dept Radiol, Tokyo, Japan; [Komatsu, Takayuki] Juntendo Univ, Fac Med, Dept Sports Med, Tokyo, Japan; [Hamai, Ayano] Awa Reg Med Ctr, Dept Gen Med, Chiba, Japan; [Iida, Kengo] Kaneko & Iwamatsu Law Off, Tokyo, Japan; [Koshimizu, Takako] Otsuma Womens Univ, Dept Food Sci, Fac Home Econ, Tokyo, Japan; [Nakayama, Haruo; Musha, Haruki] St Marianna Univ, Sch Med, Dept Sports Med, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan; [Fujiya, Hiroto] Toho Univ, Ohasi Med Ctr, Dept Neurosurg, Tokyo, Japan; [Manabe, Tomohiro] Keio Univ, Sports Med Res Ctr, Fujisawa, Kanagawa, Japan; [Yamasawa, Fumihiro] Marubeni Hlth Promot Ctr, Tokyo, Japan; [Segato Kruse, Joao Gabriel; Kaneko, Miki; Kiyono, Ken] Osaka Univ, Grad Sch Engn Sci, Osaka, Japan; [Nose-Ogura, Sayaka] Japan High Performance Sport Ctr, Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Med, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka,Kita ku, Tokyo, Japan								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001621264700001	59	Article; Article		
J	Liang, Xin; Shen, Bin; Xiao, Songlin; Xu, Zhen; Zhang, Chuyi; Zong, Xuekai; Li, Jingjing; Han, Jia; Fu, Weijie								Males with chronic ankle instability exhibit sex-specific force sense deficits								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				28	36		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.11.005			JAN 2026	2026	Objective: To explore whether there are differences in sensorimotor function between sexes in individuals with and without chronic ankle instability (CAI). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 50 (26 males/24 females) individuals with CAI and 40 (17 males/23 females) healthy controls (HC). Main outcome measures: Ankle muscle strength and proprioception were assessed using an isokinetic dynamometer. Static balance performance was assessed by a one-leg standing task, and dynamic balance performance was tested using the Y-Balance test. Results: Compared with healthy controls, both males and females with CAI exhibited worse proprioception and balance control, but no difference in muscle strength. A significant group and sex interaction effect was observed of force sense in the dorsiflexion direction (F = 5.14, p = 0.026, eta(2)(p) = 0.057). Post-hoc analysis showed that, the absolute error of force sense in males was significantly larger than females in the CAI group (p < 0.001), while there was no difference in the HC (p = 0.536). Conclusion: This finding indicated that among individuals with CAI, males are more likely to experience a greater impairment in the dorsiflexion direction of force sense than females. Future rehabilitation programs should consider targeted proprioceptive interventions for males to address this deficit effectively.		[Liang, Xin; Shen, Bin; Xu, Zhen; Zong, Xuekai; Li, Jingjing] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Xiao, Songlin] Chengdu Sport Univ, Sch Sports Med & Hlth, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Chuyi] Macao Polytech Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Sports, Macau 999078, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bruce, Australia; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Intelligent Sports Engn, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Intelligent Sports Engn, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001628342800001	62	Article; Article		
J	Morgan, Tommy; Cannon, Seth								Uneven Bars? Looking for Environmental Microaggression Effects in NCAA Women's Gymnastics								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	2			151	170		10.1177/15270025251396501			FEB 2026	2026	We study whether environmental microaggressions, a type of racial microaggression, go unaccounted for by coaches of NCAA Division I women gymnasts of color when competing at any given university hosting women's gymnastics meets between 2015-2024. NCAA gymnastics meets provide an excellent setting to test for such an effect because, while scores are assigned individually, teams compete collectively, giving coaches incentives to set lineups optimally. We hypothesize that environmental microaggression effects would manifest as institution-specific racial gaps in scoring and employ a difference-in-differences model that quantifies such gaps, controlling for ability-, preparation-, and event-level factors that also contribute to scores. Across two specifications - first, comparing Black gymnasts to White gymnasts, and second, comparing White gymnasts to all other gymnasts - we find no convincing evidence that gymnasts' scores are affected by an environmental microaggression effect in any way not accounted for prior to setting lineups.		[Morgan, Tommy] Univ Tennessee, Econ, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Cannon, Seth] Univ Maryland, Econ, College Pk, MD USA; [Morgan, Tommy] Univ Tennessee, Econ, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001619850700001	40	Article; Article		
J	Schoemaker, Jelle; De Boer, Willem; Davies, Larissa; Kokolakakis, Themis								The Well-Being Value of Sport for Loneliness and Depression								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	1			88	115		10.1177/15270025251396496			JAN 2026	2026	This study examines the extent to which participation in sport has a causal effect on subjective well-being among individuals experiencing loneliness and depression. Utilizing longitudinal data from the Dutch LISS panel (2009-2018) with a fixed-effects model to address endogeneity, the analysis explores how hours of sport per week affect happiness for adults between 21-65 years, with interaction effects for severe loneliness and frequent depressive moods. The analysis indicates that an hour of sport per week can mitigate 14% of the SWB deficit experienced by frequent depression and 37% for loneliness. Subsequently, using the Well-being Valuation Approach, this translates to a monthly value of <euro>526 for individuals with frequent depression, and <euro>1,266 per month for loneliness, above the value of sport for an average person (<euro>249). This highlights the potential of sport as 'well-being medicine', informing targeted policies and practices to leverage sport for a happier society.		[Schoemaker, Jelle] Univ Utrecht, Utrecht Sch Governance, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Schoemaker, Jelle; De Boer, Willem] HAN Univ Appl Sci, Inst Sport & Exercise, Heyendaalseweg 141, NL-6525 AJ Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Davies, Larissa] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Fac Business & Law, Dept People & Performance, Manchester, England; [Kokolakakis, Themis] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport Ind Res Grp, Sheffield, England; [Schoemaker, Jelle] HAN Univ Appl Sci, Inst Sport & Exercise, Heyendaalseweg 141, NL-6525 AJ Nijmegen, Netherlands								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001618873900001	88	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Chang Hyun; Lee, Kyung Yul; Kwon, Youngsun								Does VAR reduce referee bias? Causal evidence from global professional football leagues								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251391395				2025	The presence of home advantage and referee bias in professional football has been widely documented. This study empirically examines the impact of Video Assistant Referee (VAR) technology on mitigating referee bias toward the home team by using a large-scale dataset spanning 41 football leagues across 26 countries from 2013 to 2024. Using a staggered difference-in-differences model and the synthetic control method, we provide causal evidence on how VAR influences home advantage measured by goals, red cards, and penalties. Our findings indicate that VAR adoption significantly reduces home advantage by increasing the average number of goals scored by away teams, rather than decreasing home team goals. Furthermore, an increase in direct red cards was observed, with a greater effect on home teams than away teams. However, there was no significant difference in the number of penalty kicks before and after the introduction of VAR. Additional analyses reveal that VAR implementation significantly increases the probability of away wins, reinforcing the main findings. These results demonstrate the role of technological innovation in enhancing fairness in professional football. By employing robust econometric techniques and a comprehensive dataset, this study contributes to the ongoing discourse on sports technology and referee decision-making, offering insights into the long-term effects of VAR implementation on competitive balance.		[Kim, Chang Hyun; Kwon, Youngsun] Korea Adv Inst Sci & Tech, Coll Business, Sch Business & Technol Management, Daejeon, South Korea; [Lee, Kyung Yul] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Coll Business & Econ, Global Business & Technol, Yongin, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Lee, Kyung Yul] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Coll Business & Econ, Global Business & Technol, Yongin, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001618874200001	92	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Yoshida, Takuya; Furuhashi, Yuki; Shinkai, Ryosuke; Zushi, Amane; Maemura, Hirohiko; Ono, Seiji; Tanigawa, Satoru								Characteristics of visual search behavior for improving performance in the drop jump intervention instructional movie								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251391964				2025	Watching instructional movies has been proposed as a way to enhance lower limb power output in plyometric training. However, the optimal visual search behavior for immediate performance improvements remains unclear. This study examined visual search behaviors associated with improved drop jump (DJ) performance after an instructional movie intervention. Twenty physical education students (5 male, 15 female; age: 21.45 +/- 1.79 years; height: 165.28 +/- 7.79 cm; weight: 61.32 +/- 6.89 kg) were categorized into Increased (DJ-index improved) or Decreased (DJ-index declined) groups based on individual response to the movie intervention. DJ were performed under Normal (no movie) and Movie (DJ immediately after watching the instructional movie) conditions. A linear mixed model (LMM) analysis revealed significant individual differences in DJ performance (p = 0.003), suggesting that personal movement characteristics influenced responsiveness to the intervention. The Increased group exhibited a higher DJ-index after the movie, whereas the Decreased group showed the opposite trend. During the pre-set phase, Increased group participants focused more on the hip region, while Decreased group participants fixated on the foot area. These findings suggest that observing full lower limb motion while emphasizing the hip joint enhances takeoff timing through spatial-temporal anticipation.		[Yoshida, Takuya] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Fac Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Furuhashi, Yuki] Hosei Univ, Sports Res Ctr, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan; [Shinkai, Ryosuke; Maemura, Hirohiko; Ono, Seiji; Tanigawa, Satoru] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Zushi, Amane] Tsuru Univ, Fac Liberal Arts, Dept Teacher Educ, 3-8-1 Taira, Tsuru, Yamanashi 4028555, Japan; [Yoshida, Takuya] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Fac Sports Sci, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka Kita Ku, Tokyo 1150056, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001617645900001	26	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Salari-Esker, Fatemeh; Esmaeili, Hamed; Azmoon, Annahita								Ground reaction forces and free moment using neutral, motion control, and minimalist shoes in forefoot runner females								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	6			791	806		10.1080/14763141.2025.2585281			JUN 3 2026	2026	Despite advances in footwear industry, running related injuries (RRI) rate is high in female runners. Selection of proper shoe is a big challenge for runners. We aimed to compare the effects of running-induced fatigue on ground reaction forces and free moments while using neutral (N-Shoes), motion control (MC-Shoes), and minimalist shoes (M-Shoes) in forefoot runner females. Twenty recreational female forefoot runners completed fatiguing treadmill running protocol using M-Shoes, MC-Shoes and N-Shoes in three separated sessions. Participants ran on a runway at 3.3 m/s before and after fatiguing protocol in each session. Using N-shoes increased peak lateral force, peak braking force, peak propulsive force, peak vertical force, peak positive free moment, peak negative free moment, load rate, medio-lateral impulse, antero-posterior impulse and vertical impulse. Using MC-shoes, increased peak vertical and peak braking forces and vertical impulse, and decreased peak lateral force and peak negative and positive free moments. While, using M-shoes increased peak braking forces. Minimalist shoes maintain pre-fatigue ground reaction forces and free moments during fatigued running compared to neutral and motion control shoes in female forefoot runners. Using minimalist shoes is recommended to decrease exacerbated running-induced fatigue effects in forefoot runner females.		[Salari-Esker, Fatemeh; Azmoon, Annahita] Univ Mazandaran, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport Biomech & Motor Behav, Babolsar, Iran; [Esmaeili, Hamed] Univ Isfahan, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport Injuries & Correct Exercises, Esfahan, Iran; [Esmaeili, Hamed] Univ Isfahan, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport Injuries & Correct Exercises, Esfahan, Iran								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001614493900001	58	Article; Article		
J	Fallon, Thomas; Fischer, Neil; Heron, Neil								Injury epidemiology in cyclocross. A preliminary study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	1			75	81		10.1080/00913847.2025.2588650			JAN 2 2026	2026	Background: Cyclocross is a growing discipline in competitive cycling, yet there is a lack of epidemiological data on injury patterns within the discipline. This study aimed to describe the incidence, type, location and mechanisms of injuries sustained during a national-level cyclocross event, using standardized injury surveillance methodology. Methods: A prospective observational study was conducted at the 2025 British National Cyclocross Championships. Medical staff recorded injuries using the IOC consensus statement on injury and illness reporting, with adaptations from the UCI cycling-specific injury surveillance framework. Injury incidence was calculated per 1000 athlete-hours, and injury characteristics were analyzed by sex, mechanism, and severity. Results: Overall, 6.7% of 534 cyclists sustained an injury during the event. The overall injury incidence was 98.62 injuries per 1,000 athlete-hours (95% CI: 69.07-136.53). Most injuries (91.9%) were acute. Lacerations (38%) and joint sprains (17%) were the most common diagnoses, with the knee (43%) being the most frequently affected body part. The mean injury severity was 6.83 +/- 15.44 days. The primary mechanism of injury was contact with the ground or course features (56.8%). While males sustained more injuries, females experienced significantly longer time-loss per injury (mean 22.5 days vs. 4.88 days; p < 0.05). Conclusions: Cyclocross is associated with a high rate of predominantly moderate acute injuries, differing from injury patterns seen in road or mountain biking. These findings highlight the need for discipline-specific injury prevention strategies and further research, particularly into sex-based differences and risk mitigation during technical sections of races.		[Fallon, Thomas; Heron, Neil] Queens Univ Belfast, Ctr Publ Hlth, Univ Rd, Belfast BT7 1NN, North Ireland; [Fallon, Thomas] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport PE & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh Sports Med Res Network, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Fallon, Thomas] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport PE & Hlth Sci, UK Collaborating Ctr Injury & Illness Prevent Spor, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Fischer, Neil; Heron, Neil] British Cycling, Med Dept, Manchester, England; [Fallon, Thomas] Queens Univ Belfast, Ctr Publ Hlth, Univ Rd, Belfast BT7 1NN, North Ireland								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001616358800001	26	Article; Article		
J	Gucal, Ali Cagri; Gurbuz, Bulent								Service quality and sport consumption in stadiums: the mediating role of perceived value								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-01-2025-0037				2025	PurposeStadiums are important service marketing areas at the forefront of the sports service sector and with increasing demand every day. In Turkey, where football plays a dominant role in the national sports culture and attracts passionate fans, understanding the impact of stadium service quality on spectator loyalty and experience is crucial. Building on this premise, the aim of the study was to investigate the mediating role of perceived value in the effect of service quality on sport consumption behavior within the context of Turkish football spectators.Design/methodology/approachParticipants (n = 843), selected through convenience sampling, consisted of spectators attending professional football matches in Turkish stadiums. The hypotheses included in the research model were tested using structural equation modeling (SEM).FindingsThe results indicate that service quality has a positive impact on perceived value, and this perceived value affects sport consumer behavior. Additionally, perceived value was identified to have a partial mediating role in the relationship between service quality and sport consumption behavior in the Turkish football context.Originality/valueTheoretically, this study extends the applications of the stimulus organism response (SOR) model and the sport value framework (SVF) by examining service quality, perceived value and sport consumption behavior through the lens of Turkey's distinctive sports culture and stadium environment. Practically, the findings provide context-specific insights for stadium managers, offering actionable strategies to enhance spectator engagement and promote stadium services more effectively in the rapidly evolving and highly competitive sports environment characteristics of Turkey.		[Gucal, Ali Cagri] Istanbul Nisantasi Univ, Dept Recreat, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Gurbuz, Bulent] Ankara Univ, Dept Sports Management, Ankara, Turkiye; [Gucal, Ali Cagri] Istanbul Nisantasi Univ, Dept Recreat, Istanbul, Turkiye								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001613568300001	61	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Roh, Sinhae; Pedersen, Zack P.; Byon, Kevin K.; Pedersen, Paul M.								Comparing emotional and rational appeals in CSR messaging for sport products								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0202				2025	PurposeThis study aimed to explore the impact of emotional and rational corporate social responsibility (CSR) messages by sport product companies on consumer purchase intention. CSR activities have positively influenced crucial factors affecting consumer purchase intention. Despite the industry's active implementation of CSR initiatives, research on messages that significantly influence consumer behavioral intentions is lacking.Design/methodology/approachAfter collecting responses from 427 individuals, a 2 (emotional vs. rational appeal) x 2 (service vs. physical product) factorial design was employed and tested.FindingsThe research revealed no significant difference in purchase intention between emotional and rational appeal for overall sport products. However, in the case of service products, emotional appeal was found to have a negative effect on purchase intentions. For physical products, rational appeal significantly impacted purchase intention compared to emotional appeal.Originality/valueThis study contributes to the field by identifying which type of appeal is effective for purchase intention.		[Roh, Sinhae; Pedersen, Paul M.] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Pedersen, Zack P.] West Virginia Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Morgantown, WV USA; [Byon, Kevin K.] Southern Methodist Univ, Dept Appl Physiol & Sport Management, Dallas, TX USA; [Roh, Sinhae] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001616908800001	59	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wang, Wenche; Gong, Hua								The Impact of Legalized Sports Betting on Aggression								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	1			116	146		10.1177/15270025251396530			JAN 2026	2026	Following the Supreme Court's 2018 decision in Murphy v. National Collegiate Athletic Association, several states have legalized sport betting. Engaging in betting may lead to increased alcohol consumption, weapon-carrying, and violent crimes, further compounding the already recognized issues of fan aggression associated with sporting events. In this study, we employ a difference-in-differences design to examine the impact of legalized sports betting on crime using incident data from 2017 to 2021. We identify an increase in crimes from the start of a game to four hours after its conclusion in states that recently introduced a legal sports betting market, with significant spillover effects extending to neighboring states without legal sports betting markets. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, betting-related aggression in early adopting states was primarily stemmed from emotional cues related to financial loss; non-finance-related emotional cues also played a role post-pandemic. Our findings underscore the need for proactive policy to mitigate negative effects associated with sports betting amidst its rapid expansion.		[Wang, Wenche] Calif Energy Commiss, Div Petr Market Oversight, 715 P St, MS 36, Sacramento, CA 95814 USA; [Gong, Hua] Rice Univ, Dept Sport Management, Houston, TX USA; [Wang, Wenche] Calif Energy Commiss, Div Petr Market Oversight, 715 P St, MS 36, Sacramento, CA 95814 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001614249700001	55	Article; Article		
J	Rudek, Grace; Heinert, Emma; Vannatta, C. Nathan; Rutherford, Drew; Kernozek, Thomas W.								Use of concurrent auditory, tactile, and visual cueing and estimated cadence increases on Achilles tendon loading in running								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				14	20		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.11.002			JAN 2026	2026	Objective: If self-estimated cadence increases or real-time cueing using auditory, tactile, and visual cues increases cadence and reduces Achilles tendon (AT) loading in runners. Design: Controlled laboratory. Participants: 35 recreational runners (age: 22.4 +/- 1.9 years, mass: 74.5 +/- 12.0 kg, height: 1.76 +/- 0.09 m) Main outcome measures: Cadence was measured at preferred running cadence (baseline), self-estimated 10 % cadence increase, and 10 % increased real-time cadence cues, on an instrumented treadmill where kinematics and kinetics were obtained. Inverse dynamics and static optimization were applied to a 16-segment musculoskeletal model for kinematics and kinetics related to AT loading. Results: Cueing methods increased cadence from the baseline run (4.9 %-9.6 %) (p < 0.05). Foot inclination angle was unchanged (p > 0.05). Auditory cueing and visual cueing increased cadence to reduce AT Force by 10.9 % and 7.7 %, respectively. Step time and peak soleus force decreased for all conditions (p < 0.05). Peak ground reaction force decreased with visual cues (p < 0.05). Gastrocnemius force was unchanged. Conclusion: Auditory and visual cues effectively influenced cadence, altering AT loading. Runners responded to auditory and visual cuing. Clinicians may consider these strategies when targeting cadence manipulation in runners with AT injuries in treadmill running.		[Rudek, Grace; Heinert, Emma; Rutherford, Drew; Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, Dept Hlth Profess, Phys Therapy Program, La Crosse, WI USA; [Vannatta, C. Nathan] Gundersen Hlth Syst, Gundersen Sports Phys Therapy, La Crosse, WI USA; [Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, Hlth Sci Ctr, Dept Hlth Profess, 1300 Badger St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001621489100002	40	Article; Article		
J	Sallum, Andrea Forgas; Abdalla, Rene Jorge; de Carvalho, Rogerio Teixeira; Franciozi, Carlos Eduardo								Clinical predictors of ACL reinjury after reconstruction: Insights from a Brazilian cohort								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				8	13		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.11.003			JAN 2026	2026	Objectives To investigate predictors of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reinjury in a cohort of 234 patients who underwent isolated ACL reconstruction. Design Retrospective cohort study with prospective follow-up. Setting Medical records of 1155 patients were screened. Patients were followed up via phone interviews and evaluated with functional scales and clinical data. Participants 234 patients with isolated, primary ACL injuries. Data collected included demographics, graft type, isokinetic strength deficits, dynamic knee valgus tests, and follow-up duration. Main outcome measures ACL reinjury (ipsilateral graft rupture or contralateral), confirmed through medical documentation. Functional outcomes assessed with Tegner and Lysholm scores. Results Reinjury was observed in 27 patients (contralateral), 29 (ipsilateral), and 7 (bilateral). Age at primary injury was the only significant predictor of reinjury (OR = 0.97, p = 0.028). Muscle strength deficits and dynamic valgus were not associated with reinjury risk. Patients with >5 years of follow-up had significantly lower Tegner scores (p = 0.039), though Lysholm scores showed no significant difference. Conclusions Younger age is a significant predictor of ACL reinjury. Functional scores decline over time, likely due to aging rather than graft failure. These results highlight the importance of long-term follow-up, particularly in younger patients.		[Sallum, Andrea Forgas] Fed Univ Sao Paulo EPM UNIFESP, Paulista Sch Med, Translat Surg Postgrad Program, Ave Irere 550 Planalto Paulista, BR-04064001 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Abdalla, Rene Jorge] Fed Univ Sao Paulo EPM UNIFESP, Paulista Sch Med, Translat Surg Postgrad Program, Rua Botucatu 740 1 Andar Vila Clementino, BR-04039032 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [de Carvalho, Rogerio Teixeira] Fed Univ Sao Paulo EPM UNIFESP, Fed Univ Sao Paulo DOT EPM UNIFESP, Paulista Sch Med,Translat Surg Postgrad Program, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol,Knee Grp, Rua Botucatu 740 1 Andar Vila Clementino, BR-04039032 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Franciozi, Carlos Eduardo] Fed Univ Sao Paulo EPM UNIFESP, Fed Univ Sao Paulo DOT EPM UNIFESP, Orthoped Radiol Sci Postgrad Program,Knee Grp, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol,Paulista Sch Med, Rua Botucatu 740 1 Andar Vila Clementino, BR-04039032 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Sallum, Andrea Forgas] Fed Univ Sao Paulo EPM UNIFESP, Paulista Sch Med, Translat Surg Postgrad Program, Ave Irere 550 Planalto Paulista, BR-04064001 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001621489100001	24	Article; Article		
J	Yoo, Tae Woong; Chang, Yonghwan; Cunningham, George B.								Comparative case study of X-based fan discourse in esports vs. traditional sports: 2024 MSI and 2023 NBA Finals Game 5								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	2			373	389		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0152			MAY 8 2026	2026	PurposeThis comparative case study examines fan discourse and sentiment in esports versus traditional sports, focusing on X (formerly Twitter) discussions surrounding the 2024 League of Legends Mid-Season Invitational Finals and the 2023 NBA Finals Game 5. Drawing on dual-process theory and social identity theory, it seeks to illuminate how distinct cognitive and identity-driven processes shape online fan behavior.Design/methodology/approachPosts related to each event were collected via the X API and preprocessed to remove noise. Sentiment analysis using Valence Aware Dictionary and Sentiment Reasoner classified posts as positive, neutral, or negative, while Latent Dirichlet Allocation topic modeling revealed overarching themes. Discourse was further categorized as team-focused, player-focused, both, or neither, enabling detailed cross-case comparisons.FindingsEsports fans exhibited significantly higher levels of neutral sentiment and a pronounced player-centric focus, aligning with more analytical discourse. Traditional sports fans showed a broader emotional spectrum, including stronger positive and negative sentiments and a greater emphasis on team identity. These divergent patterns suggest the interplay of cognitive processing and social identity factors.Originality/valueThis study contributes novel empirical evidence of how online fan discourse differs between esports and traditional sports, reinforcing theoretical propositions regarding analytical esports discourse and holistic sports discourse integrating sentiment analysis with topic modeling offers a methodological advance for examining sport-related social media discourse.		[Yoo, Tae Woong; Chang, Yonghwan] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Cunningham, George B.] Yale Univ, Berkeley Divin Sch, New Haven, CT USA; [Yoo, Tae Woong] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001610377200001	81	Article; Article		
J	Li, Shuqi; Wong, Donna; Meng-Lewis, Yue								Negotiating sexuality, identity and marketplace culture: a case study on Gen Z's interpretations of Durex's esports sponsorship in China								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	2			431	449		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0178			MAY 8 2026	2026	PurposeThis study aims to examine how controversial sponsorships are received in culturally conservative markets by exploring Chinese Gen Z esports fans' reactions to Durex's partnership with the League of Legends Pro League. It investigates how brand messages related to sexuality intersect with youth identity, marketplace culture and social values.Design/methodology/approachA qualitative case study approach was adopted. In total, 14 Gen Z esports fans who had viewed the Durex campaign were interviewed using a semi-structured guide informed by consumer culture theory. A thematic analysis was used to interpret how participants negotiated identity, meaning and cultural fit in response to the sponsorship.FindingsWhile the campaign generated substantial online visibility and discussion, many participants perceived it as culturally inappropriate or embarrassing. Esports fans valued personal identity and shared a distinctive community culture. Although Gen Z consumers appeared more open-minded, traditional cultural conservatism continued to influence how they interpreted and evaluated the sponsorship content.Research limitations/implicationsThis study is limited by its qualitative design and reliance on a purposive sample of Chinese Gen Z esports viewers, which may restrict generalisability. The cultural specificity of the findings limits their transferability beyond similar socio-cultural contexts.Practical implicationsFor sensitive brands, effective sponsorship should emphasise corporate social responsibility and cultural sensitivity, aligning brand narratives with community values to foster trust and reduce potential backlash.Originality/valueThis study extends sport sponsorship research into esports by examining audience responses to sensitive branding in a non-Western context. It shows how cultural alignment, fan identity and community norms shape sponsorship outcomes in youth-driven digital environments.		[Li, Shuqi; Wong, Donna] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Meng-Lewis, Yue] Open Univ, Dept Strategy & Mkt, Milton Keynes, England; [Li, Shuqi] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001609360300001	95	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Aaron Z.; Obana, Kyle K.; Law, Christian; Mastroianni, Michael A.; Magruder, Matthew L.; Saltzman, Bryan M.; Trofa, David P.								The state of online information about Platelet-rich plasma (PRP): what are patients asking and what are their sources of information?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	6			492	499		10.1080/00913847.2025.2586451			NOV 2 2025	2025	ObjectivesPlatelet-rich plasma (PRP) has emerged as a promising treatment option in orthopedics, albeit with mixed clinical data. Therefore, patient interest in PRP has grown, reflected as an increase in the number of PRP-related internet searches. The aims of this study are to 1) investigate the most frequently searched online patient questions related to platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and 2) evaluate the quality of websites providing information.MethodsThree PRP-related search queries were entered into Google Web Search and the 100 most common questions for each query were included. Questions were categorized based on Rothwell's Classification of Questions (Fact, Policy, Value) and further subcategorized based on their content. Websites were further categorized by type (Academic, Commercial, Government, Medical Practice, Single Surgeon Personal, and Social Media) and evaluated based on the JAMA Benchmark Criteria for website quality. Statistical analysis was performed with descriptive statistics and reported as percentages where appropriate.ResultsMost questions fell into the Rothwell Value (43.0%) and Fact (40.6%) categories. The most common questions that patients had about PRP pertained to efficacy of treatment (14.0%), comparison of treatment with other options (13.0%), and cost (10.9%). The most common sources of information were medical practice (50.9%) and single surgeon personal websites (14.7%), which had low website quality with JAMA Benchmark criteria of 0.68 +/- 0.87, and 0.58 +/- 0.85, respectively.ConclusionThe most common questions patients had about PRP pertained to the evaluation of its effectiveness and how it compared with other treatment options. Notably, patients received most information from websites of low quality, highlighting the potential for bias and misinformation. Physicians should use these results instead provide up-to-date, evidence-driven information about PRP to help guide patient expectations.		[Chen, Aaron Z.; Obana, Kyle K.; Law, Christian; Mastroianni, Michael A.; Magruder, Matthew L.; Trofa, David P.] Columbia Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Irving Med Ctr, 622 West 168th St,PH-11 Ctr, New York, NY 10032 USA; [Saltzman, Bryan M.] Maimonides Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Brooklyn, NY USA; [Saltzman, Bryan M.] Indiana Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Indianapolis, IN USA; [Chen, Aaron Z.] Columbia Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Irving Med Ctr, 622 West 168th St,PH-11 Ctr, New York, NY 10032 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001609838600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Green, Sarah; Broadbent, David P.; Buszard, Tim; Bruce, Lyndell								Evaluating the representativeness of a small-sided game for high-pressure phases of play in elite Australian football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251388822				2025	This study examined the representativeness of a small-sided game for high-pressure phases of play in Australian football. One elite AF team (age = 23.5 years +/- 3.85) completed a training drill designed with modified task constraints (10-versus-10 players and reduced playing space) to replicate the high-pressure of contested phases of matches. Across 11 weeks, player possession data from 11 drills and contested phases of 11 matches were analysed. On average, players completed the drill 5.3 times and participated in 6.9 matches. Environmental and behavioural variables were compared between settings, analysed relative to frequency per minute and as proportions of variable occurrences per minute within contested phases of play. Findings showed significantly higher pressure points in matches (median = 2.34) than in training (median = 2.02). Indeed, matches featured significantly higher frequencies of all high-pressure variables than training. Comparatively, training produced match-like proportions of possessions with physical (median = 28.31%) and closing pressure (median = 13.61%), but also featured a higher prevalence of low-pressure events, such as longer possession durations (median 2-3s = 15.28%, median 3 + s = 15.83%) and disposals with no opposition pressure (median = 9.2%). Training (median = 63.75%) also involved more effective outcomes than matches (median = 49.64%). The drill was not entirely representative of match-like high-pressure phases of play and may have been less challenging. Interestingly, different measures of representativeness provide different results and interpretations. Coaches should be clear on training drill aims and the outcomes they hope to achieve to attain the most meaningful insights.		[Green, Sarah; Broadbent, David P.; Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia; [Buszard, Tim] Essendon Football Club, Football Dept, Burwood, Vic 3045, Australia; [Buszard, Tim] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHES, Melbourne, Vic 3011, Australia; [Green, Sarah] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001610393000001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Meyer, Kyle; Garnett, Daniel; Janse van Rensburg, Dina C.; Fletcher, Lizelle; Viljoen, Carel								Preseason injury epidemiology and associated injury risk factors among South African junior provincial rugby players: a prospective cohort study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	1			37	47		10.1080/00913847.2025.2583051			JAN 2 2026	2026	BackgroundThe preseason period in rugby plays a key role in athlete preparation for the demands of the sport during the in-competition period. Epidemiological data pertaining to rugby have focused mainly on senior elite professional with little evidence available for junior elite professionals, and even less during the preseason period. This may limit the ability of stakeholders in the sport to understand the effects of injury on participants during the preseason period.ObjectiveTo determine the epidemiology, clinical characteristics, and associated risk factors for injury among elite male junior provincial rugby players in South Africa during a 14-week preseason period.DesignA prospective cohort study.MethodsData collection procedures were in-line with consensus statements in sports and rugby. Prospective injury data related to 53 male participants were collected. Descriptive statistics was used to describe clinical characteristics of injury, cross-tabulations were created to investigate risk factor associations, and logistic regression was used to model the risk factors.ResultsThe overall injury prevalence was 75.5%. The incidence of match play injuries (149.26/1000 h) were higher than training injuries (23.32/1000 h). Injuries to the lower limb (48.8%) and muscle/tendon injuries (48.2%) were most commonly reported injuries by anatomical region and tissue type during the preseason period. When controlling for age and playing position, baseline injury was associated with a higher risk of sustaining a subsequent injury during preseason. Age, baseline injury, and playing position showed no statistically significant association with injury risk.ConclusionA high number of training and match play injury incidence were recorded for elite male junior provincial rugby players. Baseline injury was associated with a higher risk of sustaining a subsequent injury during preseason when controlling for playing position and age.		[Meyer, Kyle; Viljoen, Carel] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, ZA-0028 Pretoria, South Africa; [Garnett, Daniel] Oxford Brookes Univ, Dept Sport Hlth Sci & Social Work, Oxford, England; [Janse van Rensburg, Dina C.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [Janse van Rensburg, Dina C.] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst, Pretoria, South Africa; [Fletcher, Lizelle] Univ Pretoria, Fac Nat & Agr Sci, Dept Stat, Pretoria, South Africa; [Meyer, Kyle] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, ZA-0028 Pretoria, South Africa								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001610255300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Kilit, Bulent; Arslan, Ersan; Soylu, Yusuf; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Crespo, Miguel								Impact of traditional and game-based teaching methods on skill acquisition and psychological responses of young adult beginner tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2305	2315		10.1177/17479541251388881			AUG 2026	2026	Research on tennis coaching primarily targets beginner children, with limited focus on adults. This study compared traditional (TRT) and game-based (GBT) methods for their effects on technical skills and perceptual responses in beginner young players. Thirty-two males (age 21.5 +/- 2.4 years) with no tennis experience were randomized into TRT (n = 16) and GBT (n = 16) groups, training twice weekly for six weeks with adapted equipment. Pre- and post-tests included the International Tennis Number (ITN) and Tennis-Specific Skills Test (TSST), ratings of perceived exertion (RPE), rating scale of mental effort (RSME), and physical enjoyment scale (PES). TRT showed greater technical improvements (ITN: p < 0.05, eta 2p = 0.470; TSST: p < 0.05, eta 2p = 0.332-0.622). GBT achieved smaller but significant gains (ITN: p < 0.05, eta 2p = 0.294-0.339; TSST: p < 0.05, eta 2p = 0.16-0.19) with higher enjoyment (PES: GBT 46.0 +/- 3.9 vs. TRT 35.4 +/- 2.9, p < 0.05) and lower exertion (RPE: GBT 12.3 +/- 0.7 vs. TRT 15.7 +/- 1.0, p < 0.05). TRT methods seem to be more effective for rapid technical skill acquisition, while GBT approaches may offer a more engaging and less stressful learning experience. Coaches should balance skill acquisition and engagement for optimal learning.		[Kilit, Bulent; Arslan, Ersan; Soylu, Yusuf] Tokat Gaziosmanpasa Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokat, Turkiye; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sports Tech & Tact, Valencia, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dev Dept, London, England; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sports Tech & Tact, Valencia, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001611687900001	60	Article; Article		
J	Ji, Yulsoo; McLeod, Christopher M.; Chun, Yoonki								Sport-Life imbalance and athlete burnout: The moderating role of perceived athlete-team fit								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251390843				2025	Although athletes may experience burnout under conditions of sport-life imbalance, Person-Environment Fit Theory suggests that a strong fit between the individual and their team can buffer this negative impact by fostering a sense of alignment. This study investigates the relationship between sport-life imbalance and burnout, with a particular focus on the moderating role of athletes' perceived athlete-team fit. Survey data from 239 Korean athletes were analyzed using Hayes' PROCESS Model 1 in SPSS 25.0. Results revealed that sport-life imbalance was positively associated with burnout, whereas athlete-team fit was negatively associated with burnout. Furthermore, athlete-team fit significantly moderated the relationship, such that the positive effect of sport-life imbalance on burnout was significantly mitigated at high levels of athlete-team fit. Grounded in Person-Environment Fit Theory, these findings highlight the critical importance of aligning team goals and values with those of athletes, particularly under stressful conditions. This study offers actionable insights for sports teams and coaching staff aiming to enhance athlete well-being, maintain performance, and promote the long-term sustainability of the team.		[Ji, Yulsoo; McLeod, Christopher M.] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, 1864 Stadium Rd, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Chun, Yoonki] Bowling Green State Univ, Sch Appl Human Dev, Bowling Green, OH USA; [McLeod, Christopher M.] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, 1864 Stadium Rd, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001610290200001	108	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Cook, Adam								The 12th Man Plays Defense: The Effects of Heterogeneous COVID-19 NFL Stadium Attendance Restrictions								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	1			27	56		10.1177/15270025251384229			JAN 2026	2026	Using heterogeneous COVID-19 stadium attendance restrictions during the 2020 NFL season as an instrumental variable for stadium attendance and a novel panel data containing historical NFL game outcomes, attendance, weather, penalty assessment and visitor travel information between 2009 and 2022, I examine the effect of home stadium attendance on a variety of match outcomes, while controlling for a comprehensive set of covariates. I find that home stadium fans influence the outcomes of NFL games in favor of the home team, and that this result is insensitive to the inclusion of other factors previously suggested to explain home advantage in gridiron football. Neither the size of the home crowd nor the home crowd density has any measurable effect on referee home bias in the NFL, suggesting NFL home fans directly influence match outcomes by negatively affecting visiting team performance, possibly through a crowd noise distraction mechanism.		[Cook, Adam] SUNY Coll Fredonia, Fredonia, NY 14063 USA; [Cook, Adam] SUNY Coll Fredonia, Fredonia, NY 14063 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001608938100001	41	Article; Article		
J	Horn, Timothy; Campbell, Stuart; Scott, Geoff; Dunn, Andrew; Haddad, Fares								A clinical case report on biceps femoris T-junction surgical repair & rehabilitation of an international footballer								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				161	168		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.10.042			NOV 2025	2025	This clinical case study details the management of an international footballer who sustained a high-grade biceps femoris T junction tendon injury. Following surgical repair of the tendon, the player completed a phased return to training rehabilitation programme that was designed to progressively expose load and function from a strengthening, physical conditioning and technical performance aspect. This case report outlines the phases and subsequent aims in conjunction with shared decision-making processes that assisted to ensure a successful rehabilitation. This case report considers the alignment of "normal" training load and volume as a comparative marker as well as additional comparative physical profiling metrics to further inform suitability to return to training. This case report further outlines the importance of individualised rehabilitation as well as longitudinal monitoring upon returning to training to reduce further risk of (re)injury and return to performance.		[Horn, Timothy] Edge Hill Univ, Ormskirk, England; [Campbell, Stuart] Tottenham Hotspur Football Club, London, England; [Scott, Geoff] AVIV Clin, Dubai, U Arab Emirates; [Dunn, Andrew] Royal Liverpool Univ Hosp, NorthWest MSK Imaging, Liverpool, England; [Haddad, Fares] Princess Grace Hosp HCA Healthcare, London, England; [Haddad, Fares] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Horn, Timothy] Edge Hill Univ, Ormskirk, England								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001613949300001	24	Article; Article		
J	Arachchige, R. S. S. Subasinghe; Szeto, G. P. Y.; Du, C. F.; Hung, C. M.; Ko, C. H.; Lau, C. W.; Ngai, C. H.; Wong, A. L. C.; Kwan, R.; Sreenivasa, M.; Cheung, R. T. H.								Effect of forefoot strike and toe-out running on knee contact forces: a musculoskeletal modelling-based study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	5			700	712		10.1080/14763141.2025.2573127			MAY 4 2026	2026	Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a common degenerative joint condition with significant public health implications. Modifying running biomechanics is a potential strategy to reduce knee joint loading and support long-term maintenance of physical activity in individuals with knee OA. This study investigated the effects of running modifications on knee contact force (KCF) between natural running, forefoot striking (FFS), and toe-out running. Ten healthy participants performed three trials of 20-m overground running for each condition. KCF were estimated using an OpenSim-based musculoskeletal model, and differences across conditions were evaluated using a one-way repeated measures ANOVA. In early stance, toe-out running exhibited higher medial-lateral KCF compared to both natural running (p = 0.017, Cohen's d = 0.92) and FFS (p = 0.003, Cohen's d = 1.28). In late stance, both FFS (p = 0.039, Cohen's d = 0.76) and toe-out (p = 0.011, Cohen's d = 1.01) running exhibited increased medial-lateral KCF relative to natural running. Additionally, FFS generated significantly higher vertical KCF than both natural (p < 0.001, Cohen's d = 2.32) and toe-out running (p < 0.001, Cohen's d = 1.70). Running modifications involving toe-out or FFS resulted in increased KCF, particularly in the medial-lateral direction. These findings suggest such modifications may not effectively reduce joint loading and should be approached with caution in individuals with knee OA.		[Arachchige, R. S. S. Subasinghe; Cheung, R. T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Human Movement Lab, Campbelltown, NSW, Australia; [Szeto, G. P. Y.; Du, C. F.; Hung, C. M.; Ko, C. H.; Lau, C. W.; Ngai, C. H.; Wong, A. L. C.; Kwan, R.] Tung Wah Coll, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Sreenivasa, M.] Univ Wollongong, Sch Mech Mat Mechatron & Biomed Engn, Wollongong, NSW, Australia; [Cheung, R. T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Translat Hlth Res Inst, Sch Hlth Sci, Campbelltown, NSW, Australia; [Cheung, R. T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Human Movement Lab, Campbelltown, NSW, Australia; [Cheung, R. T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Translat Hlth Res Inst, Sch Hlth Sci, Campbelltown, NSW, Australia								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001607908100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Shuya, Zhao; Ribeiro, Tiago; Almeida, Victor								Examining identity and perceived risk on technology acceptance and behavioural intentions of fans: an extended TAM perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-07-2025-0375				2025	PurposeThe rise of digital innovations in the sports industry has led to the growing adoption of fan tokens, offering sports organisations new ways to engage with their fans. As these digital assets gain traction, understanding the factors that influence their acceptance becomes increasingly critical. Thus, this study uses the Technology Acceptance Model to explore the roles of fan identity and the perceived risk in shaping fan token acceptance and aims to examine their effect on the behavioural intentions of football fans.Design/methodology/approachData were gathered from a sample of football fans (n = 360) representing eight Brazilian clubs that issue official fan tokens through the Socios.com platform. Structural equation modelling was employed to test the hypothesized relationships within the proposed framework with bootstrapping techniques applied to assess the robustness of the estimates and examine the mediating effects of key variables on behavioural intentions.FindingsThe results highlight the key role of TAM in predicting fan token adoption. Technological acceptance emerged as a strong predictor of both word-of-mouth communication and fan purchase intentions. Fan identity demonstrated a significant positive influence on fan token acceptance and purchase intention. Moreover, fan token acceptance was found to mediate the relationship between fan identity and behavioural intentions, indicating that fans with strong identification are more likely to adopt tokens from their sports clubs.Originality/valueThis study advances theoretical understanding by incorporating fan identity, trust and perceived risk into the extended TAM framework. Our findings highlight the critical importance of trust-building strategies and effective risk mitigation in promoting fan adoption of technology and strengthening their behavioural intentions. The fan token industry should recognize the well-established and mediating role of technological acceptance while strengthening trust and leveraging fan identity to build deeper, value-driven connections.		[Shuya, Zhao; Ribeiro, Tiago] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Tiago] Univ Algarve, Res Ctr Tourism Sustainabil & Wellbeing CinTurs, Faro, Portugal; [Almeida, Victor] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, COPPEAD Grad Sch Business, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Ribeiro, Tiago] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Tiago] Univ Algarve, Res Ctr Tourism Sustainabil & Wellbeing CinTurs, Faro, Portugal								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001604249900001	56	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Aguiar, Gabriel Gomes; Palheta De Azevedo, Luma; Da Silva Rodriges, Mayara; Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre; Lima, Emersom Silva; Rossato, Mateus								Supplementation with Acai Pulp (Euterpe Precatoria) Alters Recovery Parameters After High-Intensity Intermittent Exercise (HIIT)								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			225	234		10.1080/02701367.2025.2579049			APR 3 2026	2026	The objective was to evaluate the effects of acai pulp on recovery and antioxidant activity after High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT). Twenty-four men (22.3 +/- 1.8 years, 75.1 +/- 8.9 kg and 173.8 +/- 6.7 cm) participated, with 13 men allocated to the Acai Group (GA) and 11 men to the Control Group (CG). Assessments were carried out to determine a) Peak aerobic speed on a treadmill (PAS), b) TBARS (Thiobarbituric Acid Reactive Species) and TEAC (Trolox Equivalent Antioxidant Capacity), c) Echo-intensity (EI) in the Vastus Lateralis (VL), Rectus Femoris (RF), Gastrocnemius Medialis (GM), and Tibialis Anterior (TA), d) Countermovement Jump Height (CMJ), and e) 30 m Sprint Time. The HIIT consisted of 10 sets of 60s in treadmill at 100% to PAS, followed by 75s of passive recovery. The GA was supplemented with 1250 ml of acai pulp (5 days before HIIT-250 ml/day). Time-treatment interactions were observed for the echo-intensity of the RF [F = 2.681; p = .037; eta 2p = .109; ES = 0.35 (S)], TA [F = 2.951; p = .024; eta 2p = .118; ES = 0.37 (S)] and TBARS [F = 4.11; p = .0231, eta 2p = .157; ES = 0.43(S)], indicating that the GA showed faster recovery with less oxidative stress. We can conclude that acai supplementation (250 ml/day for 5 days) was effective in accelerating muscle recovery after 48 h and reducing oxidative stress resulting from the HIIT session.		[Aguiar, Gabriel Gomes; Palheta De Azevedo, Luma; Da Silva Rodriges, Mayara; Lima, Emersom Silva; Rossato, Mateus] Univ Fed Amazonas, Manaus, Brazil; [Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre] Univ Estadual Ponta Grossa, Ponta Grossa, Brazil; [Rossato, Mateus] Univ Fed Amazonas, Manaus, Brazil; [Rossato, Mateus] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Gen Rodrigo Otavio Ave 6200,Coroado 1, BR-69080900 Manaus, AM, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001606930500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Peng, Qian; Zhang, Zhen; Gao, Liang; Zhang, Hui; Liu, Yu								Modified Sprint Interval Intervention Produces Lower Inter-Subject Variability in Physiological and Performance Adaptations Across Collegiate Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			839	850		10.52082/jssm.2025.839			DEC 2025	2025	This experiment investigated the uniformity of the adaptations to high-intensity-interval training (HIIT) prescribed using anaerobic speed reserve (ASR(HIIT) [The difference between maximal sprint speed and maximal aerobic speed]), maximal aerobic speed (MAS(HIIT)), and a load-matched sprint interval training (SIT) in male collegiate soccer players. Thirty collegiate male soccer players with 4-6 years of training experience (age = 21.6 +/- 4.8 years; height = 182.4 +/- 4.4 cm; body mass = 84.1 +/- 3.3 kg; body fat = 13.1 +/- 3.6%) were randomized to three experimental groups performing either ASR(HIIT) or MAS(HIIT) (4 sets of 4 - 7 repetitions of 30-sec running at Delta%30ASR (MAS + 0.3xASR) or 130% MAS, from the 1st to the 7th session) or a load-matched SIT. Participants underwent a series of lab- and field-based tests to evaluate measures of cardiorespiratory fitness (i.e., maximal oxygen uptake, cardiac hemodynamics and ventilatory threshold), anaerobic power (i.e., peak and average power), and bio-motor abilities (i.e., maximal sprint speed, change of direction, and jumping ability). Homogeneity of the adaptive changes was investigated by comparing residuals in individual changes and calculating the coefficient of variation in mean group changes. All three interventions adequately stimulated the adaptive mechanisms involved in the enhancement of the qualities mentioned above (p < 0.05). Linear sprint speed improved solely in response to SIT (p = 0.001). Moreover, load-matched SIT led to significantly greater enhancements in measures of bio-motor abilities compared to ASR(HIIT) and MAS(HIIT) (p < 0.05). ASR(HIIT) and SIT resulted in lower inter-subject variability in adaptive responses in cardiorespiratory fitness measures (p < 0.05). Optimizing homeostatic stress through load-matched SIT leads to more homogenous adaptations across individuals and significantly greater adaptations in bio-motor abilities than the other prescription approaches. It's worth noting that genetic variability, motivation, diet, sleep quality, and psychological factors can influence inter-individual responses. These aspects were not accounted for in the current experiment and represent potential limitations.		[Peng, Qian] Henan Sport Univ, Dept Social Sports, Kaifeng, Henan, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Zhen; Gao, Liang; Zhang, Hui] Henan Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Xinxiang, Henan, Peoples R China; [Liu, Yu] Zhongyuan Inst Sci & Technol, Dept Sports, Zhengzhou, Henan, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Hui] Henan Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Xinxiang, Henan, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001612711700001	46	Article; Article		
J	JuanFeng; Trybulski, Robert; Makar, Piotr; Mroczek, Dariusz; Clemente, Filipe Manuel								Associations between Internal Load, Respiratory Metabolism, and Neuromuscular Activation during 1v1 Small-Sided Soccer Games								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			934	947		10.52082/jssm.2025.934			DEC 2025	2025	Small-sided soccer games (SSGs) are widely used in football training to simultaneously improve players' technical skills and physical fitness. However, the mechanistic relationship among internal load, respiratory metabolism, and neuromuscular activation during SSGs remains unclear. To examine the relationship between internal load and lower-limb neuromuscular activation during 1v1 SSGs, and to determine whether respiratory-metabolism variables mediate this association. A repeated-measures design was adopted. 60 physical education students (age: 18.75 +/- 0.45 years; training experience: 3.27 +/- 3.3 years; body mass: 69.35 +/- 8.17 kg) completed a standardized 1v1 SSG protocol (8 x 1 min bouts with 1 min passive recovery). Internal load was quantified using the Firstbeat system-training impulse per minute (TRIMP center dot min-1), total energy expenditure (EE_total), and heart rate (HR; average and peak)-while oxygen uptake (VO2, mL center dot kg-1 center dot min-1), minute ventilation (VE, L center dot min-1), and respiratory rate (RespR, breaths center dot min-1) were continuously estimated. Surface electromyography (sEMG) was recorded bilaterally from the rectus femoris (RF) and biceps femoris (BF), normalized to maximal voluntary contraction (MVC), and analyzed for rootmean-square amplitude (RMS), averaged EMG amplitude (aEMG), integrated EMG (iEMG), and median frequency (MF). Mediation analyses were performed to assess whether respiratory metabolism parameters mediated the effect of internal load on neuromuscular activation. Internal load indices showed consistent positive correlations with respiratory-metabolic variables, ranging from r = 0.436 between EE Total and Average VO2 to r = 0.944 between Peak HR and Average VE (all p < 0.001). For BF, average VO2, VE, and RespR correlated strongly with HR (r = 0.864-0.938); for RF, TRIMP correlated significantly with Peak VO2 (r = 0.864, p < 0.001). BF metabolic indices were moderately correlated with MF (r = 0.268-0.340, p < 0.05), and RF average VO2 correlated with aEMG (r = 0.28, p < 0.05). Mediation analysis revealed that:(1) BF models: The direct effects of HR (average/peak) on BF_MF were nonsignificant. In contrast, indirect effects via RespR, VE, and VO2 were significant (p < 0.05), indicating full mediation by respiratory metabolism. (2) RF models: TRIMP center dot min-1 had a significant positive direct effect on RF EMG indices (RMS, aEMG, iEMG; p < 0.05) anda significant negative indirect effect via Peak VO2 (95% CI excluding 0), showing a "positive direct + negative indirect" dual-path mechanism. (3) Energy model: The effect of EE Total on RF_aEMG was fully mediated by Average VO2, with no direct effect. Internal load and respiratory-metabolic responses showed consistent positive coupling during SSGs, forming a physiological basis for exercise performance. The BF muscle appeared to rely largely on respiratory-metabolic mediation for EMG frequency modulation, reflecting sensitivity to metabolic state. In contrast, RF activation was influenced by both direct internal load and indirect metabolic pathways. Findings suggest that BF activity may depend more on metabolic status, whereas RF activation may reflect combined influences of load intensity and metabolic mediation, providing insight for more precise assessment of load and muscle function in soccer contexts.		[JuanFeng; Makar, Piotr; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [JuanFeng] Chaohu Univ, Chaohu, Peoples R China; [Trybulski, Robert] Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept Wojciech Korfanty, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Mroczek, Dariusz] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Sport Didact, Wroclaw, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001608206400001	63	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Chi-Hsien; Yeh, Mingchia; Liu, Chiang; Tseng, Yan-Jer; Lu, Sung-Ting								Biomechanical Differences Between Ipsilateral and Contralateral Change-Of-Direction Movements Using the Same Planting Foot in Recreational Team Sport Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	4			721	728		10.52082/jssm.2025.721			DEC 2025	2025	Change-of-direction (COD) movements are critical for predicting injury risk or identify sport performance. Multiple studies have examined contralateral COD (contra-COD) comprehensively, but few studies have examined ipsilateral COD (ipsi-COD). This study investigated the kinetic and kinematic parameters of the same planting foot during ipsi-COD and contra-COD movements. In total, 29 recreational team sport players performed 60 degrees ipsi-COD and contra-COD movements. Biomechanical data were collected using a three-dimensional force plate and a motion capture system. The ipsi-COD task exhibited a 6% shorter contact time than the contra-COD task. In addition, ipsi-COD resulted in a significantly greater ankle pronation-supination range (+27%), smaller inversion-eversion range (-19%), and decreased plantarflexion-dorsiflexion range (-37%). Lower ground reaction forces (horizontal: -14%, vertical: -32%, resultant: -14% to -279%) and impulse values (horizontal: -24%, vertical: -23%, resultant: -24%) were observed for ipsi-CODs than for contra-CODs. The musculoskeletal structure of the lower limbs provides an anatomical advantage for excessive eversion during ipsi-COD, leading to a more rounded execution path compared with contra-COD. The differences in contact time, ankle range of motion, and ground reaction force in ipsi-COD may result from joint alignment, force application techniques, and movement execution strategies. The observed phenomenon of shorter contact time with lower ground reaction force and smaller ankle range in ipsi-COD offers new insights for future studies investigating COD mechanics across different movement contexts.		[Chen, Chi-Hsien] Iowa State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Ames, IA USA; [Yeh, Mingchia] Slippery Rock Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Slippery Rock, PA USA; [Liu, Chiang; Tseng, Yan-Jer] Univ Taipei, Grad Inst Sports Equipment Technol, Taipei, Taiwan; [Liu, Chiang; Lu, Sung-Ting] Taiwan Inst Sports Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lu, Sung-Ting] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Liu, Chiang] Univ Taipei, Grad Inst Sports Equipment Technol, Taipei, Taiwan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001611846300001	29	Article; Article		
J	Tsuruga, Vanessa Asell; Anagnostopoulos, Christos								Voices of change through <i>COLLECTIVE VISIBILITY</i>: a case of women's empowerment in sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	2			410	430		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0165			MAY 8 2026	2026	PurposeThis study aims to explore the transformation and impact of COLLECTIVE VISIBILITY, a speaker directory initiative designed to diversify and amplify women's voices in sports. It addresses the historical dominance of male perspectives in sport speakership and highlights efforts to achieve gender inclusivity in this domain.Design/methodology/approachThe research is grounded in the field of sport and social entrepreneurship and employs a collective autoethnographic methodology. Rooted in collective action theory, this case traces the development of COLLECTIVE VISIBILITY from its initial social media inception to its evolution into a global platform featuring 770 speakers in over 70 countries.FindingsThe study finds significant disparities in speaker representation within the sports sector, emphasizing the need for diverse voices. It documents the inclusive, non-hierarchical approach of COLLECTIVE VISIBILITY, which adopts a peer and self-nomination process. The findings highlight the directory's success in elevating women's presence in sports discussions, illustrating the benefits of equal representation.Originality/valueThis research offers a unique examination of a grassroots, social media-driven movement in sport speakership, underscoring the role of collective action in driving social change. By focusing on practical outcomes and leveraging an innovative methodological approach, the study contributes original insights into achieving gender inclusivity within the sports sector.		[Tsuruga, Vanessa Asell] Collect Visibil, Stockholm, Sweden; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Div Engn Management & Decis Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Molde Univ Coll, Fac Business Adm & Social Sci, Molde, Norway; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Div Engn Management & Decis Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Molde Univ Coll, Fac Business Adm & Social Sci, Molde, Norway								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001604298900001	46	Article; Article		
J	Deng, Anqi; Zarrett, Nicole; Bewley, MacKenzie; Chen, Ang								Mis-Conceptions in Socio-Emotional and Cognitive Aspects of Youth Physical Activity Engagement in Under-Resourced Communities								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			212	224		10.1080/02701367.2025.2576087			APR 3 2026	2026	A gold-standard approach to motivating and sustaining children's physical activity (PA) engagement is to facilitate their physical literacy (PL) development. The purpose of this study was to identify cognitive and social-motivational affective conceptual needs for potential PL development in under-resourced pre-to-early adolescent children who enrolled in existing after-school programs. Semi-structured interview and field observation data were collected to gauge the level of scientific declarative and procedural PA knowledge as verbalized and/or displayed. Interview themes revealed na & iuml;ve conceptions and mis-conceptions. The triangulation of findings from the interview data with observation data results indicated apparent impact of children's na & iuml;ve conceptions and mis-conceptions on their PA engagement. Findings highlight the importance of targeting foundational cognitive and social-motivational knowledge as precursors to broader PL development, suggesting the need for multi-domain PL interventions to strengthen children's knowledge base and support long-term positive PA behavior.		[Deng, Anqi] Univ Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR USA; [Zarrett, Nicole; Bewley, MacKenzie] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC USA; [Chen, Ang] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, Greensboro, NC USA; [Zarrett, Nicole] Univ South Carolina, Dept Psychol, 1512 Pendleton St, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001603339100001	52	Article; Article		
J	Moeda, Frederico; Saraiva Alexandre, Joao; Marcal, Telmo; Celeiros, Joao; Amaro, Joao; Barbosa, Ricardo; Barao, Gustavo; Lopes, Bernardo; Alves, Joao; Hatia, Madjer								One competitive season of injuries in professional football: a retrospective study from a Portuguese first league team								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	6			486	491		10.1080/00913847.2025.2581560			NOV 2 2025	2025	ObjectivesTo describe the injury profile of a Portuguese professional football team over one competitive season, focusing on the type, severity, mechanism, timing, and management of time-loss injuries.DesignThis is a retrospective, observational study based on a single professional team from the Portuguese first football league. The study was conducted over one full competitive season (2024/2025).MethodsAll time-loss injuries resulting in missed official matches were included. Collected data included player demographics, injury type, anatomical location, mechanism (traumatic or overuse), recurrence, time-loss duration, and the use of image-guided interventional procedures. Injuries were diagnosed using clinical evaluation and confirmed by imaging (ultrasound, X-ray or Magnetic Resonance Imaging). Descriptive statistics were used.ResultsA total of 26 injuries were recorded, corresponding to an overall incidence of 48.7 injuries per 1000 h of exposure (training: 33.3/1000 h; match: 148.1/1000 h; incidence rate ratio = 4.45). Muscle injuries of the hip and thigh were most common (n = 14, 53.8%), particularly hamstring (n = 6) and adductor strains (n = 4). Traumatic mechanisms accounted for 92.3% (n = 24) of cases, while 2 were overuse injuries. Sixteen injuries (61.5%) occurred during training and 8 (30.8%) during matches. The mean time-loss was 20.8 days, corresponding to 4.2 matches missed per injury. Injury peaks were observed in February and April. Defenders were the most affected (n = 15, 57.7%). Four players underwent ultrasound-guided procedures, including three platelet-rich plasma (PRP) injections and one corticosteroid plus hyaluronic acid injection, all with favorable outcomes and return to play.ConclusionsThis study reinforces the importance of context-specific surveillance to guide injury prevention and treatment. The predominance of traumatic training injuries and successful application of image-guided interventions highlight key considerations for elite football medical teams.		[Moeda, Frederico; Saraiva Alexandre, Joao; Marcal, Telmo; Celeiros, Joao; Amaro, Joao; Barbosa, Ricardo; Barao, Gustavo; Lopes, Bernardo; Alves, Joao; Hatia, Madjer] Clube Futebol Estrela Amadora SAD, Med & Performance Dept, Alameda Das Linhas Torres 62,6D, P-1750147 Lisbon, Portugal; [Moeda, Frederico; Hatia, Madjer] Unidade Local Saude Lisboa Ocidental, Phys Med & Rehabil Dept, Lisbon, Portugal; [Saraiva Alexandre, Joao] Unidade Local Saude Amadora Sintra, Radiol Dept, Amadora, Portugal; [Moeda, Frederico] Clube Futebol Estrela Amadora SAD, Med & Performance Dept, Alameda Das Linhas Torres 62,6D, P-1750147 Lisbon, Portugal								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001603227100001	18	Article; Article		
J	McLoughlin, Daniel E.; Kwon, Soyang; Bajaj, Pranav M.; Sandoval, Linda; Murday, Patrick F.; Burgess, Jamie K.; LaBella, Cynthia R.								Comparison of injury patterns among highly specialized athletes in individual, team, and repetitive motion team sports								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	6			475	485		10.1080/00913847.2025.2580924			NOV 2 2025	2025	ObjectiveOveruse injuries are more associated with highly specialized youth athletes in individual sports than those in team sports; however, as baseball, softball, and volleyball involve frequent repetitive motions, these repetitive motion team sports (RMTS) may see a greater proportion of overuse injuries than non-repetitive motion team sports (non-RMTS). The objective of the present study is to compare the distribution of injuries (overuse vs. acute) in RMTS to non-RMTS and individual sports among highly specialized youth athletes.MethodsWe conducted a retrospective review of 805 highly specialized athletes (aged 12.00-17.92 years) who presented with a sports-related injury between January 2015 and June 2022. The injury distribution (proportion of overuse vs. acute injuries) for each sport type group (Individual, RMTS, non-RMTS) was compared to each of the other two via chi-square, and linear regression was used to evaluate the relative odds of any given injury being overuse for sport type and various demographic and sports participation variables.ResultsAmong 805 patients, 487 (60.5%) were individual sport athletes, 83 (10.3%) were RMTS athletes, and 235 (29.2%) were non-RMTS athletes. The proportions of overuse injury were 67.1%, 57.5%, and 40.0% in the individual, RMTS, and non-RMTS groups, respectively. Overuse injury proportion was higher in RMTS than non-RMTS (p = 0.0105), though it was not significantly different between RMTS and individual sports (p = 0.098). Patients participating in individual sports (Odds Ratio = 2.93, 95% CI = 2.00-4.29) or RMTS (OR = 2.28, 95% CI = 1.31-3.97) had greater odds of overuse injury relative to acute injury when compared to those in non-RMTS.ConclusionsAmong highly specialized youth athletes, individual sport and RMTS athletes had similar proportions of overuse injuries, and both had a higher proportion of overuse injuries than non-RMTS athletes. Preliminary evidence suggests that RMTS athletes may share some risk characteristics with individual sport athletes, which may help guide future research into injury patterns in this group to help better inform clinicians in counseling highly specialized youth athletes regarding overuse injuries.		[McLoughlin, Daniel E.; Bajaj, Pranav M.; Murday, Patrick F.; LaBella, Cynthia R.] Northwestern Univ, Feinberg Sch Med, Chicago, IL USA; [McLoughlin, Daniel E.; Bajaj, Pranav M.; Sandoval, Linda; Murday, Patrick F.; Burgess, Jamie K.; LaBella, Cynthia R.] Ann & Robert H Lurie Childrens Hosp Chicago, Div Orthopaed & Sports Med, Chicago, IL USA; [Kwon, Soyang] Ann & Robert H Lurie Childrens Hosp Chicago, Mary Ann & J Milburn Smith Child Hlth Outcomes Res, Chicago, IL USA; [Murday, Patrick F.] Northwestern Univ, McGaw Med Ctr, Chicago, IL USA; [McLoughlin, Daniel E.] Ann & Robert H Lurie Childrens Hosp Chicago, Div Orthopaed Surg & Sports Med, 225 East Chicago Ave,Box 69, Chicago, IL 60611 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001603296800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Li, Yao-Chune; Song, Tai-Feng; Liew, Ee Won; Wu, Sheng K.								Tracking aerobic and anaerobic fitness in table tennis players with various athletic levels: A two-year study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251389942				2025	There is a lack of research conducted to examine the over-time changes in aerobic and anaerobic fitness in table tennis (TT) players with various athletic levels. In order to fill the gap in knowledge, this study was to assess physiological responses to the graded exercise test in Level-1 collegiate, Level-2 collegiate, and U16-U18 TT players and to track their performance for one year. Forty-eight well-trained TT players participated in this study. The competitive TT-specific aerobic test (CTTSAT) was conducted to assess their fitness, and data were collected to represent their aerobic fitness (i.e., total testing time and heart rate recovery) and anaerobic fitness (i.e., blood lactate clearance). Mixed-effects models were conducted to examine the main effects of time and group and the time-by-group interaction on all indicators while controlling for sex. There was a significant main effect of time on the total testing time (estimate = 243.04, SE = 57.30, p < 0.001), indicating that TT players improved their performance on the CTTSAT test over time. Neither the main effect of group nor the interaction of time by group was found on all outcomes. Despite similar physiological responses to the CTTSAT, well-trained TT players with various athletic levels could continuously improve aerobic fitness. Nevertheless, our findings imply a potential time-tactic or time-technique trade-off which needs to be further tested.		[Li, Yao-Chune] China Med Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Taichung, Taiwan; [Li, Yao-Chune] China Med Univ Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Taichung, Taiwan; [Song, Tai-Feng; Liew, Ee Won; Wu, Sheng K.] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Dept Sport Performance, Taichung, Taiwan; [Wu, Sheng K.] 16 Sect 1,Shan Shih Rd, Taichung 404, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001604691100001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ma, Shang-Chun; Yi, Hung; Tsai, Chia-Liang; Jang, Wooyoung (William); Byon, Kevin								Effectiveness of esports sponsor advertising: analyzing screen placement, sponsor type and match period in esports events with eye-tracking								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-06-2025-0287				2025	PurposeThis study aimed to explore effective advertisement placements for sponsors of professional esports matches. Various factors pertaining to esports event broadcasting screens, such as advertisement placements (e.g. bottom-left corner), advertisement types (e.g. QR code), sponsor types (e.g. Spotify) and periods (i.e. match and nonmatch) were considered.Design/methodology/approachForty-one participants were recruited to watch the 2021 League of Legends World Championship and eye-tracking data on gaze fixation duration were collected using a Tobii x3-120 eye tracker. A three-way repeated measures analysis of variance and multiple regression analysis were conducted.FindingsThe results reveal significant interactions between sponsor and placement, as well as between placement and period. Gaze duration was longer during the nonmatch period than during the match period. The longest gaze duration was observed for advertisements on the right side of the screen during the nonmatch period. The results also revealed a significantly positive association between gaze duration and sponsor recall but a significantly negative association between gaze duration and sponsor evaluation.Originality/valueThis study is among the first to examine the interaction effects of advertisement placement, sponsor type and broadcast timing in esports using both objective (eye-tracking) and subjective (recall/evaluation) measures. It offers novel insights into banner blindness and advertising effectiveness during live esports events, informing evidence-based sponsorship strategies.		[Ma, Shang-Chun; Yi, Hung; Tsai, Chia-Liang] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan; [Jang, Wooyoung (William)] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Byon, Kevin] Southern Methodist Univ, Dept Appl Physiol & Sport Management, Dallas, TX 75205 USA; [Byon, Kevin] Southern Methodist Univ, Dept Appl Physiol & Sport Management, Dallas, TX 75205 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001600606800001	69	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Wu, Chih-Hung; Chen, Yi-Xiang; Hou, Andrew Weian; Chen, Pin-Yu; Chou, Mei-Tzu								An AI-based posture recognition system for analyzing the impact of core muscle strength on the forehand loop against backspin in table tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251389701				2025	Purpose This study aims to evaluate the role of core strength in enhancing forehand loop performance in table tennis, leveraging an AI-driven posture recognition system developed using the MediaPipe algorithm. Methods Sixty participants, including 30 elite players and 30 school-level players, performed 30 forehand loops against standardized backspin balls delivered by a table tennis robot under controlled conditions. Motion data was captured at a 45 degrees angle behind the players. Hip and knee angles were analysed using thresholds of 90 degrees and 110 degrees to measure core engagement. The AI system provided real-time motion analysis and stored results for further statistical evaluation. Results Elite players showed significantly higher core engagement compared to school-level players, achieving greater frequencies of shots meeting the predefined hip angle threshold of 110 degrees (p < 0.001) and knee angle threshold of 90 degrees (p = 0.004). The AI-driven posture recognition system demonstrated high accuracy in tracking motion and analysing biomechanics, effectively distinguishing skill levels. EP exhibited superior consistency and adaptability, with trends indicating improved technical efficiency across all performance metrics. These findings highlight the importance of core strength in enhancing forehand loop performance against backspin. Conclusion Core strength plays a pivotal role in optimizing forehand loop performance, particularly when countering backspin. This study highlights the potential of AI technologies, such as the MediaPipe-based system, to advance sports biomechanics and improve training methodologies in table tennis.		[Wu, Chih-Hung; Chen, Yi-Xiang] Natl Taichung Univ Educ, Dept Digital Content & Technol, 140 Min Shen Rd, Taichung 403, Taiwan; [Hou, Andrew Weian] Natl Taichung Univ Educ, Dept Comp Sci, Taichung, Taiwan; [Chen, Pin-Yu] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Grad Inst AI Interdisciplinary Appl Technol, Taichung, Taiwan; [Chou, Mei-Tzu] Natl Chung Hsing Univ, Grad Inst Technol Management, Taichung, Taiwan; [Wu, Chih-Hung] Natl Taichung Univ Educ, Dept Digital Content & Technol, 140 Min Shen Rd, Taichung 403, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001603776000001	61	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Jing, Shuoyu; Awang, Mohd Mahzan; Wan Pa, Wan Ahmad Munsif; Pan, Pengyu; Memmert, Daniel; Zhang, Zien								Interpretable machine learning with SHAP for esports performance analysis of professional counter-strike players from 2012 to 2025								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251388864				2025	Performance analysis in traditional sports has become a mature area of sports science, whereas its application in esports remains relatively limited. This study applies an interpretable machine learning framework combining SHAP analysis and five classic algorithms to evaluate the performance of professional Counter-Strike players. Among the models tested via five-fold cross-validation, XGBoost demonstrated the best performance. The dataset comprises 1468 professional players from the Counter-Strike: Global Offensive period (2012-2023) and 880 from the Counter-Strike 2 period (2023-2025), with each player evaluated using 39 advanced in-game behavioral metrics categorized into seven skill dimensions (e.g., firepower, entrying, trading, clutching, opening, sniping, utility). Results show that key performance indicators such as Kills Per Round (KPR), Opening Success (OS), Rounds With a Kill (RWK), Rounds With a Multi-Kill (RWMK), Support Rounds (SR), Pistol Round Rating (PRR), and Saves Per Round Loss (SPRL) consistently ranked among the top ten features in both periods. The top six influential features of the model reveal interactions between features and exhibit a positive correlation with SHAP values. The case diagnostics further enabled precise evaluation of individual strengths and weaknesses. This exploratory study provides empirical insights and an interpretable machine learning analytical paradigm for performance evaluation and talent identification in esports.		[Jing, Shuoyu; Awang, Mohd Mahzan; Wan Pa, Wan Ahmad Munsif] Natl Univ Malaysia, Fac Educ, Bangi, Malaysia; [Pan, Pengyu; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany; [Zhang, Zien] Natl Univ Malaysia, Fac Informat Sci & Technol, Bangi, Malaysia; [Jing, Shuoyu] Natl Univ Malaysia, Fac Educ, Bangi, Malaysia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001599637000001	55	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Viana-Gomes, Diego; Lattari, Eduardo; Alonso, Luciano; Paulucio, Dailson; Cahue, Fabio; Cezar, Marcos Antonio; Frankenfeld, Stephan; Pierucci, Anna Paola Trindade Rocha; Salerno, Veronica								Time-Course of Changes in Oxidative Stress, Anthropometric Measurements, and Physical Performance Responses Following Eight-Week Soccer Training								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			187	194		10.1080/02701367.2025.2569482			APR 3 2026	2026	This study investigated oxidative stress, anthropometric measurements, and performance after an eight-week training program with soccer players. Sixteen U-17 male players participated in an eight-week training program, which included daily soccer training sessions lasting approximately two hours. Data collection was conducted at three distinct time points: one week prior to the start of the competitive season (Baseline), one week before the onset of the training program (Pre-training), and immediately following the eight-week intervention (Post-training). During the pre- and post-training phase, participants completed a standardized battery of physical performance tests, followed by blood sample collection. The battery of physical tests was performed in the following order: a) 30-m sprint, b) countermovement jump (CMJ), c) dribbling with/without the ball, and e) the field-based Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 2 (Yo-Yo IR2). Acceleration (10 m) and sprint time (30 m) were lower in the pre-training than in the post-training (p = .02 and p = .048, respectively). Creatine kinase levels were higher in the pre-training than at baseline and the post-training (p <= .001). Protein carbonyl levels were elevated in both the pre- and post-training compared to baseline (p <= .001). Catalase activity was higher in the post-training than at baseline (p = .001). The total distance covered in the Yo-Yo IR2 test and VO(2)max increased in the post-training. This study demonstrated that an eight-week structured training program increases catalase activity and stabilizes creatine kinase and protein carbonyl levels following repeated exposure to soccer-specific physical testing.		[Viana-Gomes, Diego] Univ Fed do Rio Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; [Lattari, Eduardo; Paulucio, Dailson] Salgado Oliveira Univ UNIVERSO, Recife, Brazil; [Alonso, Luciano; Cahue, Fabio; Pierucci, Anna Paola Trindade Rocha; Salerno, Veronica] Fed Univ Rio Janeiro, Macae, Brazil; [Paulucio, Dailson] Al Nassr Football Club, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; [Cezar, Marcos Antonio] Hlth & Performance Ctr SAF BOTAFOGO, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; [Frankenfeld, Stephan] Volta Redonda Univ Ctr, Volta Redonda, Brazil; [Lattari, Eduardo] Salgado Oliveira Univ UNIVERSO, Phys Act Sci Grad Program, R Marechal Deodoro,217 Block A,Centro, BR-24030060 Niteroi, Brazil; [Lattari, Eduardo] Salgado Oliveira Univ UNIVERSO, Phys Act Sci Grad Program, R Marechal Deodoro,217 Block A,Centro, BR-24030060 Niteroi, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001598500000001	33	Article; Article		
J	McKay, Jim; Renshaw, Ian; Davids, Keith; Woods, Carl T.								On the reflections of an international Rugby Union coach faring their way along								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			39	50		10.1177/17479541251387612			FEB 2026	2026	What defines a coach's journey? Is it the local, national or global level they reach, and/or the subsequent tournaments they win? Is it one of potential fulfilment - matching their position against pre-determined benchmarks? Or is it the experiences undergone along the way, overflowing into what is yet to come? Not a connected series of progressive steps mapped in advance, but a continual ebb and flow, the definition of which, remains beyond the horizon? Our aim, here, is to advocate for the latter. Drawing on Tim Ingold's concept of wayfaring, we suggest that a coach's journey is not one of 'being' but becoming; not a nominal sequence that closes in vertically, but a dynamic, cascading process that opens out (a)longitudinally. The implications of this conceptualisation are explored across three components of wayfaring: i) on knowing, ii) on attending, iii) on carrying on. To animate each, we share the biographical reflections of an international Rugby Union coach whose career stretches more than three decades. In sharing these reflections, our hope is to show that a coach's journey need not be defined by the levels reached or tournaments won, but the definition of which continually unfolds through experiences undergone along the way.		[McKay, Jim] Noosa Rugby Club, Sunshine Beach, Qld, Australia; [Renshaw, Ian] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Human Performance Res Grp, Sheffield, England; [Woods, Carl T.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Australia; [Woods, Carl T.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, St Lucia, Australia; [Woods, Carl T.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, St Lucia, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001597506400001	47	Article; Article		
J	Ficzere, Daniel; Hollosi, Gergely								Analyzing the dynamics of goal-scoring opportunities across football game states								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2241	2257		10.1177/17479541251365777			AUG 2026	2026	In football, the flow and outcome of a match are heavily shaped by evolving game states - dynamic conditions defined by factors such as scoreline, momentum, and key events like goals and penalties. While prior studies have examined situational factors in other sports or isolated contexts in football, there is a lack of comprehensive, large-scale empirical analysis on how these game states systematically influence chance creation in football. This paper addresses this gap by investigating the impact of game states on teams' ability to generate goal-scoring opportunities, using expected goal (xG) as a core metric across over 2000 matches from the 2023/24 season. We evaluate the role of goal difference, current match leader, and penalties, employing robust statistical tests to analyze distributions and averages under different contexts, while also examining home vs. away status, competition format, and inter-league differences. Our findings reveal that home advantage, current game state, goal difference, and penalties significantly influence attacking output, whereas competition format and league differences do not lead to substantial variations in chance creation. This paper contributes to situational modeling in football analytics by offering a large-scale, data-driven analysis of how game states affect xG generation, providing practical insights for coaches and analysts to support context-aware performance evaluation.		[Ficzere, Daniel; Hollosi, Gergely] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Budapest, Hungary; [Ficzere, Daniel] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Fac Elect Engn & Informat, Dept Telecommun & Artificial Intelligence, Muegyet Rkp 3, H-1111 Budapest, Hungary								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001597491100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Hill, Stephen								Flag football's Olympic ascent: Perspectives on growth, safety, and analytics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1895	1903		10.1177/17479541251385653			JUN 2026	2026	Flag football's upcoming appearance at the Los Angeles 2028 Olympics highlights a period of unprecedented growth in the sport. U.S. youth participation climbed 38 percent from 2019 to 2022, surpassing tackle football among 6- to 12-year-olds, while girls' high-school rosters more than doubled between 2023 and 2024. NAIA varsity status and the NCAA Emerging Sports for Women program now anchor a youth-to-college pathway. Flag football adoption is fueled by lower equipment costs, inclusivity, and a significant reduction in injury risk compared with tackle football. The flag football analytics landscape is nascent with significant opportunity for growth. Flag football thus offers a safer, accessible, and potentially data-rich alternative to traditional American football, poised for global expansion and continued scholarly study.		[Hill, Stephen] Samford Univ, Brock Sch Business, Econ Finance Quantitat Anal, Birmingham, AL 35229 USA; [Hill, Stephen] Samford Univ, Brock Sch Business, Econ Finance Quantitat Anal, Birmingham, AL 35229 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001597520000001	58	Article; Article		
J	Ensign, Julene; Kulinna, Pamela Hodges; Woods, Amelia Mays; Nam, Kahyun								Longitudinal Insights: The Evolution of Beginning Physical Educators' Practices Over Five Years								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	2			201	211		10.1080/02701367.2025.2573661			APR 3 2026	2026	To better support teachers and reduce attrition, it is important to examine the complex and evolving relationship between the teaching tasks and teacher performance in Physical Education. Guided by self-efficacy theory and a model of career progression, this longitudinal study aimed to analyze the teaching performance and efficacy of early-career physical educators over their first 5 years of teaching. Teaching performance was measured through direct classroom observation using Academic Learning Time in Physical Education (ALT-PE) and Qualitative Measures of Teaching Performance Scale (QMTPS). Teacher efficacy was assessed using validated self-report instruments, the Physical Education Teaching Efficacy Scale (PETES) and the Self-Evaluation of Teacher Effectiveness Questionnaire in PE (SETEQ-PE), alongside a demographic survey. Data collection occurred two to three times annually. Participants included five to ten teachers from two states. PETES visual analyses of descriptive graphs showed positive trends with RM-ANOVA confirming statistically significant growth over time. SETEQ-PE scores also improved, though not significantly. Similarly, ALT-PE data trended in a positive direction for motor-appropriate student engagement and demonstrated significant improvements over time. However, QMTPS scores indicated a downward trend with no significant changes. Interobserver agreement exceeded 90% across observations. Over a 5-year period, teachers exhibited minor improvements in teaching efficacy and the amount of motor appropriate student engagement. Teachers who feel empowered are likely to maintain higher levels of teaching efficacy, and positive career cycle progression requires effective mentoring and relevant professional development to minimize the factors leading to teacher attrition and drop out.		[Ensign, Julene] Truman State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, 100 E Normal, Kirksville, MO 63501 USA; [Kulinna, Pamela Hodges] Arizona State Univ, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA; [Woods, Amelia Mays] Univ Illinois, Champaign, IL USA; [Nam, Kahyun] Univ Minnesota Duluth, Duluth, MN USA; [Ensign, Julene] Truman State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, 100 E Normal, Kirksville, MO 63501 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001597638900001	49	Article; Article		
J	Langaro, Daniela; Werling, Anna Elisabeth								Advancing e-business in sports and wellness: the role of synchronicity, coach reputation and home phygital environment on retention in online home fitness								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-01-2025-0025				2025	PurposeAssociating sports, wellness and digital technology, online home fitness (OHF) e-business models focus primarily on the recruitment of users and, subsequently, on the retention and expansion of their frequency of use. To date, few studies have explored the antecedents associated with retaining and expanding the frequency of use. The current study aims to explore this gap. Drawing on the stimulus-organism-response (S-O-R) theoretical framework and on the theory of the extended marketing mix for services, the research investigates as stimuli the role of type of class (synchronous or asynchronous) (process), coach reputation (people) and home phygital environment (phygital evidence) on patronage and frequency of use (response), mediated by perceived value (organism).Design/methodology/approachA survey comprising 286 valid responses examined the direct and indirect effects of the proposed stimuli on perceived value (hedonic, social and utilitarian) and their subsequent influence on patronage and frequency of use. SmartPLS Version 4.0 was used for the estimation of the structural equation modeling.FindingsThe findings indicate the duality of synchronicity in generating utility, with synchronous classes directly enhancing hedonic and social value, while also indirectly affecting patronage. Furthermore, phygital home environments significantly contribute to utilitarian value, and coach reputation is critical in fostering social value. Both are relevant to customer retention. While inspecting the mediating effects, the findings of the study demonstrate that the value of OHF extends beyond being a convenient and effective alternative to traditional training classes. To cope with continuous use, users of OHF must perceive fun, excitement (hedonic), a sense of belonging to the group and friendly (social) interactivity.Originality/valueThe present study makes a significant contribution to theory on an e-business model in sports and wellness by means of mapping the triggers that account for its growth and sustainability, focusing on exploring retention and expansion of their frequency of use by means of proposing and validating as stimuli: type of class (synchronous and asynchronous), home phygital environment and coach reputation.		[Langaro, Daniela] ISCTE IUL, Business Res Unit, Lisbon, Portugal; [Werling, Anna Elisabeth] ISCTE IUL, Lisbon, Portugal; [Langaro, Daniela] ISCTE IUL, Business Res Unit, Lisbon, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001595770000001	85	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Teng, Hsiang-Ling; Armour Smith, Jo								Inter-joint coordination variability decreases during dual-task treadmill running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3753	3771		10.1080/14763141.2025.2557401			DEC 2 2025	2025	This study examined the effects of dual-task (DT) running on lower extremity and trunk coordination variability and whether these effects differed across running speeds. Thirty-one asymptomatic recreational runners (18 males, 13 females; age 26.2 +/- 6.9 years; BMI 23.6 +/- 2.8 kg/m(2)) completed treadmill running trials under three task conditions: single-task (ST), DT withan easy cognitive task (DT-easy), and DT with a difficult cognitive task (DT-hard). Each condition included three speeds: 85%, 100%, and 115% of preferred speed. Coordination variability of lower extremity joints and trunk segments during stance was quantified using Vector Coding and Ellipse Area methods. Two-way repeated-measures ANOVAs showed significant main effects of task (p < 0.05), with lower coordination variability observed under DT-hard compared to ST conditions. Speed effects were also significant, with greater variability at slower speeds. No significant task-by-speed interactions were found, indicating that DT effects were consistent across speeds. These findings suggest runners exhibit reduced movement adaptability under cognitively demanding DT conditions. Evaluation and training protocols for runners may benefit from incorporating DT paradigms to better reflect real-world demands.		[Teng, Hsiang-Ling] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Phys Therapy, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Armour Smith, Jo] Chapman Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Irvine, CA USA; [Teng, Hsiang-Ling] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Phys Therapy, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001597566100001	72	Article; Article		
J	Pairot-de-Fontenay, Benoit; Roy, Jean-Sebastien; Willy, Richard W.								Simple clinical measures quantify knee loading symmetry during running after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				154	160		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.10.003			NOV 2025	2025	Objectives: Knee loading asymmetry is commonly observed during running after anterior cruciate reconstruction (ACL-R). We sought to determine whether clinically measurable asymmetries could predict knee loading symmetry (LSI) during running after ACL-R. Design: Longitudinal laboratory study. Setting: Three-dimensional running biomechanics. Participants: 24 participants post-ACL-R and 24 healthy, matched controls. Main outcome measures: LSI of knee loading variables (patellofemoral and tibiofemoral joint reaction force [PFJRF/TFJRF], and knee negative work) were assessed alongside clinically measurable variables (stance time, peak knee flexion angle, knee flexion excursion and foot strike angle). Assessments were conducted at baseline (D1) in both groups, with the ACL-R group also assessed after a 14-day return-to-run program (D14). Results: Peak knee flexion angle LSI significantly predicted PFJRF and TFJRF peak and average loading rate LSIs (all p < 0.01). Knee flexion excursion LSI predicted knee negative work LSI (p < 0.001). The R-2 for the predictive equations for PFJRF Average loading rate, PFJRF Peak, TFJRF Peak, TFJRF Average loading rate and Knee negative work were 0.69, 0.75, 0.73, 0.58 and 0.41, respectively. Conclusions: Knee joint loading symmetry during running following ACL-R can be estimated using clinically accessible variables. Among these, peak knee flexion angle symmetry emerged as the most promising predictor.		[Pairot-de-Fontenay, Benoit] Univ Lyon 1, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Biol, EA 7424, Villeurbanne, France; [Pairot-de-Fontenay, Benoit] Ramsay St, Clin Sauvegarde, Lyon, France; [Pairot-de-Fontenay, Benoit] Running Clin, Lac Beauport, PQ, Canada; [Roy, Jean-Sebastien] Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil & Social Integr, Quebec City, PQ G1M 2S8, Canada; [Roy, Jean-Sebastien] Laval Univ, Fac Med, Dept Rehabil, Quebec City, PQ G1R 1P5, Canada; [Willy, Richard W.] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Missoula, MT USA; [Pairot-de-Fontenay, Benoit] 10 Rue Dumenge, F-69004 Lyon, France								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001604519500001	35	Article; Article		
J	Baumann, Robert; Svec, Justin								Intergalactic Peer Effects: The Role of Teammates in StarCraft 2								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				27	1			3	26		10.1177/15270025251381330			JAN 2026	2026	This paper examines peer effects in the real-time strategy computer game of StarCraft 2 by testing whether the quality of a player's teammates influences that player's ratings improvement over the course of the next two weeks to twelve weeks. The setting is novel within the peer effects literature and provides access to high quality data on player and teammate performance. In our main results, our estimates suggest that having higher quality teammates is associated with a rise in the player's ratings over the next two weeks and that the impact grows as we look further into the future. These peer effects accrue to both players that are better and worse than their teammates, though early on our estimate is slightly larger for the latter group. We also find suggestive evidence that the mechanism through which peers affect a player is through the transmission of general skills.		[Baumann, Robert; Svec, Justin] Coll Holy Cross, Dept Econ & Accounting, 1 Coll St, Worcester, MA 01610 USA; [Svec, Justin] Coll Holy Cross, Dept Econ & Accounting, 1 Coll St, Worcester, MA 01610 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001594636400001	19	Article; Article		
J	Rauch, Jacob; Leidersdorf, Eric; Reeves, Trent; Wadhi, Tanuj; Storey, Luke; Taylor, Dan; Elliott, Marcus; De Souza, Eduardo O.; Tricoli, Valmor; Lamas, Leonardo								From lab to court: Evaluating the transfer of improvements in laboratory assessments to on-court performance in collegiate basketball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251384299				2025	This study examined how different resistance training (RT) interventions affect the transfer between laboratory and on-court measures in collegiate basketball players. After baseline laboratory (Countermovement jump (CMJ), Acceleration deceleration ability (ADA) and on-court testing (Closeout (CO), Drive and score (DS)), one men's (N = 11, 20.92 +/- 1.66 years, 1.90 +/- 0.1 m, 90.27 +/- 11.84 kg) and women's team (N = 13, 19.08 +/- 1.26 years, 1.72 +/- 0.1 m, 67.58 +/- 9.42 kg) were randomly assigned to strength and plyometric training (SP) or strength training only (S) for two sessions a week over six weeks during the pre-season. Mixed model analysis revealed main time effects in the CMJ: relative braking force (Nz/kg), p < 0.001; relative braking rate of force development (N<middle dot>s(-1)<middle dot>kg(-1)), p < 0.001; CO live: maximum deceleration (m<middle dot>s(-2)), p = 0.003; and DS live: average deceleration (m<middle dot>s(-2)), p < 0.001. Notably, only in SP did the confidence intervals not intersect zero, and the delta change exceeded the minimal detectable change. For the ADA, a group-by-time interaction for average deceleration (m<middle dot>s(-2)), p = 0.015 revealed SP improvements at post compared to pre. Lastly, stepwise regressions indicated that being in the S group predicted decreased deceleration performance relative to SP in the DS live drill. Collectively, our results suggest SP training may lead to greater adaptations in braking kinetics in the CMJ and deceleration performance in the ADA. Furthermore, SP may result in greater transference to select on-court deceleration metrics.		[Rauch, Jacob; Tricoli, Valmor] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Lab Adaptat Strength Training, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Leidersdorf, Eric; Reeves, Trent; Elliott, Marcus] Peak Performance Project, Santa Barbara, CA USA; [Wadhi, Tanuj] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport & Exercise Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Storey, Luke] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, St Barbara, CA USA; [Taylor, Dan] Joe Gibbs Human Performance Inst, Charlotte, NC USA; [De Souza, Eduardo O.] Univ Tampa, Dept Hlth Sci & Human Performance, Tampa, FL USA; [Lamas, Leonardo] Univ Brasilia, Fac Phys Educ, LabEsporte, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Rauch, Jacob] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Lab Adaptat Strength Training, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001593370400001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Leite, Isaura; Goethel, Marcio; Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo; Avila-Carvalho, Lurdes; Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo; Mochizuki, Luis; Conceicao, Filipe								Can an inertial measurement unit be used as a field tool for acrobatic gymnasts training?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251384251				2025	Inertial measurement units (IMUs) offer a promising tool for assessing and monitoring performance in acrobatic gymnastics, potentially providing coaches with valuable biomechanical insights. IMU and motion capture data were collected synchronously in laboratory conditions while acrobatic gymnasts performed two acrobatic skills: a back tucked somersault (BTS) and a back straight somersault (BSS). Resultant linear acceleration and angular velocity (mediolateral axis) were calculated using data from an optical motion capture system (MOCAP) and using an IMU placed in the sacrum of 19 national and international level acrobatic gymnasts, divided into 11 pairs. The entire signals were compared using statistical parametric mapping. Results showed that the IMU systematically underestimated both acceleration and angular velocity when compared to the reference system. For the base gymnast's acceleration, four (BTS) and six (BSS) clusters showed significant differences. For the top gymnast, both tasks differed approximately 100% of the time (p < .001). Regarding angular velocity, eight (BTS) and three (BSS) clusters showed significant differences, reinforcing the underestimation observed. Our findings suggest that IMU data is not sensitive to the kinematic phases (speeds, accelerations, decelerations) occurring during the top gymnast flight. These findings suggest that a single IMU may not provide reliable or sufficient information for performance assessment in acrobatic gymnastics training.		[Leite, Isaura; Goethel, Marcio; Avila-Carvalho, Lurdes; Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo; Conceicao, Filipe] Univ Porto, Fac Sports, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Leite, Isaura; Goethel, Marcio; Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo; Conceicao, Filipe] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP, Porto, Portugal; [Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Mochizuki, Luis] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Leite, Isaura] Univ Porto, Fac Sports, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Leite, Isaura] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP, Porto, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001593369300001	28	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Koh, Koon Teck; Wong, Zi Yang; Chong, Kai Jun; Lee, Levone; Newman, Tarkington								The mediating role of moral disengagement: Shaping prosocial and antisocial behaviours in sport and physical education programmes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251385655				2025	Sport and physical education (SPE) settings have the potential to serve as a unique learning context for the healthy, prosocial development of youth. However, SPE participation is also believed to promote moral disengagement and, in turn, antisocial behaviour. Preliminary research has suggested that some youth populations may be particularly vulnerable (e.g., older boys). This study examined the mediating role of moral disengagement in shaping prosocial and antisocial behaviours of youth involved in SPE. The participants comprised 29 PE teacher-coaches (23 males), five sport coaches (all male), and 463 youth athletes (257 males). Findings indicate that, in general, female athletes were less likely to display antisocial behaviour and older athletes were more likely to engage in prosocial behaviour. In fact, among older athletes, moral disengagement could explain occasional antisocial actions. Experienced coaches and the specific type of activity (i.e., physical education or sport co-curricular activities) were also linked to prosocial behaviour. Further analyses highlighted the crucial role of moral disengagement in mediating the relationship between athlete age, birth sex, and antisocial behaviour. Ultimately, schools, coach education programmes, and youth sport organisations should consider implementing strategies designed to promote the inherent value of sport.		[Koh, Koon Teck; Chong, Kai Jun] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Singapore City, Singapore; [Wong, Zi Yang] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Psychol & Child & Human Dev Dept, Singapore City, Singapore; [Lee, Levone; Newman, Tarkington] Univ Kentucky, Coll Social Work, Lexington, KY USA; [Koh, Koon Teck] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Singapore City, Singapore								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001592648900001	57	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Liao, Zhenchang; Zhu, Ni								Effects of Moderate and Regular Exercise on Improving Neurocognition and Preventing Neurodegenerative Diseases in the Elderly								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			157	175		10.1080/02701367.2025.2566196			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study evaluated the effects of regular moderate-intensity exercise on neurocognitive function in older adults. 120 eligible elderly participants were randomly assigned to either an exercise intervention group or a control group. The intervention group underwent a 12-week structured, multicomponent moderate-intensity exercise program, incorporating aerobic, resistance, flexibility, and balance training. Six composite indices were developed: the Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF)-mediated Hippocampal Plasticity Index (BHPI), the Exercise-Induced Neuroinflammation-Oxidative Stress Index (ENOSI), the Cognitive Executive Network Connectivity Index (CENCI), the Exercise-Metabolism-Cognition Coupling Index (EMCCI), the Neurovascular-Cognitive Function Coupling Index (NVCFI), and the Cognitive Resilience Variability Index (CRVI). The intervention group exhibited a mean hippocampal volume increase of 0.018 cm(3) greater than controls (p < .001) and a serum BDNF increase of 7.7 ng/mL greater than controls (p < .001), corresponding to relative increases of 1.8% and 38.5%, respectively, linked to Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) gains (r = 0.64). Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) decreased by similar to 25%, superoxide dismutase (SOD) rose by 36%, and the ENOSI dropped by 32.5%. Executive network connectivity and Stroop performance improved. Homeostatic Model Assessment for Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR) declined (Delta = -0.56), correlating with better memory (r = 0.49). Middle cerebral artery (MCA) velocity increased by 15.6%, enhancing attention. Dopamine D2/D3 binding rose by 11.2%, associated with balance gains. Cognitive variability dropped by 40%. Moderate exercise improves multidimensional cognition in the elderly through neuroplastic, anti-inflammatory, metabolic, and vascular mechanisms, enhancing both performance and system stability.		[Liao, Zhenchang] Guangzhou Vocat Univ Sci & Technol, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Ni] Shenzhen Polytech Univ, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Ni] Shenzhen Polytech Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Shenzhen 518055, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001596128200001	48	Article; Article		
J	Wong, Jasper; Wyatt, Hannah E.; Whatman, Chris; Cross, Matt R.; Yang, Danielle; Sheerin, Kelly								Evaluating agreement between a high-g and low-g accelerometer for measuring tibial acceleration across a range of running velocities								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	5			673	685		10.1080/14763141.2025.2569582			MAY 4 2026	2026	Modern inertial measurement units house multiple accelerometers with differing specifications. Previous studies have used both high-g and low-g accelerometers to measure peak tibial acceleration (TA) during running. This dual approach may introduce inconsistencies with data processing due to the different specifications. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the agreement between the high-g and low-g accelerometers in measuring peak axial and resultant TA across a range of running velocities. One hundred recreational runners ran on an athletics track at five self-selected velocities, ranging from very slow to very fast based on their comfortable training pace. Results indicated the difference in agreement between the high-g and low-g accelerometers was curvilinear, with bias shifting towards the high-g accelerometer at higher TA magnitudes. However, the predicted difference was small, only exceeding +/- 1 g when measuring axial TA approaching its maximum range (16 g). Based on the comparable performance of the high-g and low-g accelerometers, and the relatively high frequency of data clipping in the low-g accelerometer (209 of 495 trials; 42%), it is recommended to use the high-g accelerometer exclusively for measuring TA during running, simplifying data collection and processing requirements.		[Wong, Jasper; Wyatt, Hannah E.; Whatman, Chris; Cross, Matt R.; Yang, Danielle; Sheerin, Kelly] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Wyatt, Hannah E.] Univ Canterbury, Sports Hlth & Rehabil Res Cluster, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Wyatt, Hannah E.] Univ Canterbury, Biomol Interact Ctr, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Wong, Jasper] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001590809600001	26	Article; Article		
J	Hornestam, Joana Ferreira; Souza, Thales Rezende; Magalhaes, Fabricio Anicio; Begon, Mickael; Elliott, Bruce; Fonseca, Sergio Teixeira								Training junior tennis players to increase knee flexion improves their service performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	5			643	658		10.1080/14763141.2025.2568220			MAY 4 2026	2026	This study aimed to assess whether training to increase knee flexion during the tennis serve improves performance and to explore the associated biomechanical changes across the body. Twenty junior tennis players were randomly allocated into control (standard in-season training) and training groups (received training to increase knee flexion during serve). Inertial sensors tracked full body and racket kinematics during five serves performed in pre- and post-training assessments. Racket velocity, impact height, and lower- and upper-body kinematics were compared. Training increased serve knee flexion by 31 degrees (p < 0.001), leading to a 1.38 km/h increase racket velocity (p = 0.036) without affecting impact height (p = 0.331). Additionally, training increased: range of front leg knee extension (MD = 23.46 degrees, p < 0.001) and extension velocity (MD = 54.28 degrees/s, p = 0.008), hip range of motion (front: MD = 53.60 degrees/s, p = 0.003; back: MD = 57.28 degrees/s, p = 0.015), pelvis upward velocity (MD = 0.27 m/s, p < 0.001), and trunk contralateral flexion velocity (MD = 23.18 degrees/s, p = 0.025). No main effects were found for shoulder internal rotation (p = 0.304) and elbow extension (p = 0.214) velocities. No changes were observed in the control group other than a decreased trunk contralateral flexion velocity (MD = -28.98 degrees/s, p = 0.007). Specific training can, therefore, increase serve knee flexion. This study highlights that specific training to increase knee flexion can enhance serve performance by increasing racket velocity, without increasing upper limb joint contribution.		[Hornestam, Joana Ferreira; Souza, Thales Rezende; Magalhaes, Fabricio Anicio; Fonseca, Sergio Teixeira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Hornestam, Joana Ferreira] Univ Ottawa, Childrens Hosp Eastern Ontario CHEO, Res Inst, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Begon, Mickael] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Sch Kinesiol & Exercise Sci, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Elliott, Bruce] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci, Perth, Australia; [Hornestam, Joana Ferreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Hornestam, Joana Ferreira] Univ Ottawa, Childrens Hosp Eastern Ontario CHEO, Res Inst, Ottawa, ON, Canada								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001591266800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Jlassi, Oussama; Wilkie, Ethan W. C.; Kelly, Matthew; Renaud, Philippe J.; Pearsall, David J.; Robbins, Shawn M.; Dixon, Philippe C.								Machine learning-based classification of ice hockey skating tasks using kinematic data								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	5			659	672		10.1080/14763141.2025.2569580			MAY 4 2026	2026	This study evaluates the ability of body segment kinematic data to identify skating tasks in ice hockey using machine learning models and compares the performance of models trained on different body segments. We employed XGBoost, Support Vector Machine and Random Forest models to classify four primary ice-hockey skating tasks: forward skating start and strides, skating stop & go, and skating into a wrist shot. Trunk, pelvis, thigh, shank, and foot segment centre of mass linear accelerations were derived from retro-reflective markers and used as inputs for feature engineering. The models were trained and evaluated using a 10-fold cross-validation stratified by participant. Overall, the machine learning models demonstrated strong performance, with mean accuracy scores ranging from 86.5% to 98.9%. The pelvis yielded the best overall performance, followed by the trunk and foot, whereas the thigh segment generally exhibited lower accuracies across models. These results indicate that prediction performance depends on the body segment kinematic data used as input. This study highlights the potential of body segment kinematic data for automated identification of ice hockey skating tasks, providing insights into sports analytics and player performance assessment.		[Jlassi, Oussama; Wilkie, Ethan W. C.; Kelly, Matthew; Renaud, Philippe J.; Pearsall, David J.; Dixon, Philippe C.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M.] Mcgill Univ, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil, Lethbridge Layton MacKay Rehabil Ctr, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M.] Mcgill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Dixon, Philippe C.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001590096100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Keskinis, Ilias; Bassa, Eleni; Merkou, Evangelia; Lazaridis, Savvas; Panoutsakopoulos, Vassilios								The effect of ladder training on performance and kinematic parameters of sprinting in prepubertal track and field athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251384101				2025	This study examined the effects of a 6-week ladder training program on sprint performance and selected kinematic parameters in prepubescent male and female track and field athletes. Twenty-four children (7.2 +/- 1.0 years) were randomly assigned to either an experimental group (EXP, n = 10) or a control group (CON, n = 14). The EXP group completed ladder training twice weekly in addition to regular track and field practice, while the CON group followed traditional training only. Sprint performance over 15 meters and kinematic variables (stride length, frequency, and average velocity, along with joint angular kinematics and their asymmetry) were measured before and after the intervention. Significant group x time interaction effects (p < 0.05) were observed for the 0-5 m, 0-10 m, and total 15-m sprint performance, indicating improvements in the EXP group, particularly in the early acceleration phase. No significant group x time interaction effects (p > 0.05) were found for the 5-10 m and 10-15 m segments, or for any kinematic parameters. The present findings suggest that ladder training may enhance early-phase sprint performance in young athletes. This improvement is underpinned by individual variations in kinematic responses, such as adjustments in step length or step frequency, which are not fully captured at the group-average level.		[Keskinis, Ilias; Merkou, Evangelia; Panoutsakopoulos, Vassilios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Thessaloniki, Biomech Lab, Thessaloniki 54124, Greece; [Bassa, Eleni] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Ag Ioannis 62110, Serres, Greece; [Lazaridis, Savvas] Hellen Minist Educ Religious Affairs & Sports, Reg Directorate Educ South Aegean, Ermoupoli 84100, Syros, Greece; [Panoutsakopoulos, Vassilios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Thessaloniki, Biomech Lab, Thessaloniki 54124, Greece								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001591558700001	81	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Ohyama, Kanzi; Maeda, Akira								Relationship between movement time and ground reaction force in the intermediate phase of baseball hitting to base running								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2358	2367		10.1177/17479541251379183			AUG 2026	2026	Offensive play in baseball consists of batting and base running; however, the transitional phase that links these two actions, termed Situation Integration, has not been adequately studied. Furthermore, the importance of a rapid shift from batting to base running remains unclear. The purpose of this study was to identify factors that contribute to shortening Motion Time by focusing on ground reaction forces (GRF) during Situation Integration and examining their relationship with Motion Time. Twelve right-handed male collegiate baseball players (height: 170.6 +/- 4.1 cm; weight: 74.2 +/- 4.6 kg) were recruited. Trials were conducted for three pitch locations (Inside, Middle, Outside), and performance data were captured using an optical motion-capture system (Mac3D; Motion Analysis Corporation, Santa Rosa, CA, USA; 16 Raptor-E cameras) and a force plate (TF-90100; Tec Gihan, Uji, Japan; 2000 Hz). Pearson's correlation analysis revealed a significant negative correlation between Swing Speed for outside pitches and Motion Time (p < .05). Furthermore, when examining the relationship between time to Peak Force and Motion Time in a local coordinate system rotated so that the Y-axis pointed toward first base, it was found that achieving peak anterior GRF immediately after impact was important across all pitch locations. These results suggest that, during situation integration, rapid initiation of base running depended not on the magnitude of peak GRF but on attaining the anterior component of peak GRF earlier by reducing the time to Peak Force.		[Ohyama, Kanzi] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Grad Sch Phys Educ, Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan; [Maeda, Akira] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, 1 Shiromizu, Kanoya, Kagoshima 8912393, Japan; [Maeda, Akira] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, 1 Shiromizu, Kanoya, Kagoshima 8912393, Japan								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001591525900001	19	Article; Article		
J	Nieto, Moises Marquina; Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos; Calvo, Jorge Lorenzo; Serrano, Carlos Lopez; de la Rubia, Alfonso								Comparative analysis of clustering methods in the evaluation of home advantage in handball: Implications for sport performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251384496				2025	This study aimed to compare four team classification methods-hierarchical clustering (HC), final ranking (FR), quartiles (Q), and median split (MS)-to analyze the Home Advantage (HA) in handball. The objective was to evaluate the effectiveness of each method in segmenting teams based on performance level, with particular attention to sex-based differences. Data were collected from the first divisions of the Spanish men's and women's handball leagues over ten seasons (2013-2024), excluding the suspended season due to COVID-19. HA was calculated as the percentage of points earned at home out of total season points. Teams were grouped into high-level teams (HLT), medium-level teams (MLT), and low-level teams (LLT) according to their win percentage using each of the four methods. Each classification method presented distinct strengths and limitations. HC allowed flexible, data-driven grouping and revealed subtle differences between teams, but was sensitive to sample variation. FR, commonly used in sports performance analysis, offered intuitive understanding but lacked statistical granularity. Q provided a detailed segmentation suitable for heterogeneous leagues but sometimes obscured the practical interpretation. MS was simple and efficient, but it risked oversimplifying performance differences. Results showed that HC and Q were more effective at identifying performance patterns, especially when analyzing differences by sex. However, no single method proved to be universally superior. The choice of grouping strategy should be aligned with the specific objectives of the analysis. These findings provide methodological guidance for researchers and practitioners in sport science, with implications for tactical planning, talent identification, and competition analysis in team sports.		[Nieto, Moises Marquina; Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos; Calvo, Jorge Lorenzo; Serrano, Carlos Lopez; de la Rubia, Alfonso] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte INEF, Madrid, Spain; [Nieto, Moises Marquina] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte INEF, Madrid, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001590572600001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Tekin, Ebru; Unver, Fatma								The effects of neurocognitive training on pain, proprioception, injury anxiety, and functional and neurocognitive performance in athletes with chronic ankle instability- randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				134	146		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.10.001			NOV 2025	2025	Objectives: Considering the rapid motor-cognitive changes and increased risk of injury in preadolescent athletes, this study investigated the effects of neurocognitive training (NT) on pain, proprioception, injury-related anxiety, and functional and neurocognitive performance in athletes with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Design: Randomized controlled trial. Setting: Sports training facilities in Bal & imath;kesir, T & uuml;rkiye. Participants: Thirty preadolescent athletes with CAI (mean age 11.10 +/- 1.06 years) were randomly assigned to an NT group (n = 15) or a control group (n = 13). Main outcome measures: The Identification of Functional Ankle Instability (IdFAI), Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT), pain severity, proprioception (dorsiflexion/plantarflexion), injury-related anxiety, Y Balance Test (YBT), Side Hop Test, Reactive Balance Test (RBT), and Upper Extremity Choice Reaction Time Test were evaluated pre-and post-intervention. Results: The NT group demonstrated significant improvements in IdFAI (p < 0.001), CAIT (p = 0.004), dorsiflexion (p = 0.003) and plantarflexion proprioception (p = 0.018), injury-related anxiety (p = 0.013), YBT anterior reach (p = 0.048), RBT reaction time (p = 0.030), and accuracy (p = 0.003). The control group showed improvement only in plantarflexion proprioception (p = 0.028), with an increase in post-training pain (p = 0.030). Conclusions: NT reduced ankle instability symptoms and injury-related anxiety while improving proprioception and neurocognitive performance. NT may enhance functional adaptation by addressing sport-specific cognitive-motor demands.		[Tekin, Ebru] Balikesir Univ, Bigadic Vocat Sch, Dept Therapy & Rehabil, Balikesir, Turkiye; [Unver, Fatma] Pamukkale Univ, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Dept Orthoped Rehabil, Denizli, Turkiye; [Tekin, Ebru] Balikesir Univ, Bigadic Vocat Sch, Dept Therapy & Rehabil, Balikesir, Turkiye								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001598908900001	53	Article; Article		
J	Hiley, Michael J.; Hall, Paul; Yeadon, Maurice R.; Irwin, Gareth								Application of the coaching biomechanics interface: which technique should I choose?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	4			593	609		10.1080/14763141.2025.2552179			APR 3 2026	2026	The undersomersault (Felge) is one of the key family of skills on the parallel bars in men's artistic gymnastics. At the highest level of competition, two distinct techniques, termed here 'deep pike' and 'hips close', are used to perform the skill. The aim of the present study was to determine the relative performance benefits of each technique in order to provide coaches with information to facilitate technique selection and gymnast preparation. A combination of kinematic analysis of Olympic performances and technique optimisation using computer simulation modelling was used to address this aim. The kinematic analysis found that both techniques had similar performance outcomes in terms of generating horizontal and vertical velocity at release, confirming that both techniques were fit for purpose. Results from the optimisation study found that the 'deep pike' had an advantage in generating vertical velocity, due to more time to perform work, and being more forgiving in terms of generating a larger release window for acceptable performance, whilst the 'hips close' technique was associated with requiring less effort (sum of joint torques squared). As the 'deep pike' requires more effort and a larger range of hip flexibility, choosing this technique will have implications for gymnast preparation.		[Hiley, Michael J.; Yeadon, Maurice R.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Hall, Paul] Lilleshall Natl Sports Ctr, British Gymnast, Newport, England; [Irwin, Gareth] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, England; [Hiley, Michael J.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001589361900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Baldjian, Agustin Carlos; Sampietro, Matias; Gays, Cristian; Brusco, Andres; Mohrenberger, Hernan; Gimenez, German; Menayed, Rodrigo; Villalba, Federico; Tondelli, Eduardo; Clarsen, Ben								Injuries in Argentinian football: an epidemiological study of six professional clubs of second-division during the 2022 season								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	6			456	465		10.1080/00913847.2025.2568379			NOV 2 2025	2025	ObjectivesTo describe thepattern of injuries in the second division of men's professional football in Argentina.MethodsThis descriptive prospective multicentric study included 195players from six teams. The methods adhered to the football extension of theinternational olympic committee (IOC) consensus statement on injurysurveillance. A time-loss injury definition was used. Primary outcomes includedinjury incidence rates, types of common injuries and time loss.ResultsTheoverall injury incidence rate was 3.67 injuries per 1000 hours(h) of footballexposure (95% CI: 2.6 - 4.6). In matches, the incidence rate was 26.42/1,000 h(95% CI: 21.55 to 32.08) and in training it was 1.91/1,000 h (95% CI: 1.54 to 2.33). The overall injury burden was84.10 days lost per 1000 h (95% CI 45.81; 122.4). The injury types with the highest time-lossburden were muscle injury (31.56 per 1000 h 95% CI 27.660; 35.630) and ligamentsprains (32.799 per 1000 h 95% CI 17.370; 51.080).ConclusionThisstudy is one of the first surveillance studies of professional men's footballin South America, demonstrating the feasibility of surveillance in the ArgentinianFootball Association (AFA), and providing valuable insights into theepidemiology of injuries in this region. The results highlight several notablefindings, including the relatively high rates of anterior cruciate ligament(ACL) injuries and training-related injuries, suggesting the presence of a distinctive injury pattern in AFA league compared to other regions worldwide,emphasizing the need for region-specific prevention and management strategies.These findings can inform future policies and practices aimed at reducinginjury rates and improving player health and team performance.		[Baldjian, Agustin Carlos] River Plate Athlet Club, Phys Therapy Dept, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Baldjian, Agustin Carlos; Tondelli, Eduardo] Univ Buenos Aires, Fac Med Sci, Sports Physiotherapy, Parallel Course, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Baldjian, Agustin Carlos] Hosp JA Fernandez, Phys Therapy Dept, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Sampietro, Matias] Belgrano Athlet Club Cordoba, Phys Therapy Dept, Cordoba, Argentina; [Sampietro, Matias; Gays, Cristian] Univ Rafaela, Phys Therapy Dept, Rafaela, Argentina; [Gays, Cristian] Rafaela Athlet Club, Phys Therapy Dept, Rafaela, Argentina; [Brusco, Andres] Sacachispas Football Club, Phys Therapy Dept, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Mohrenberger, Hernan] Sport Social Club Def & Justicia, Phys Therapy Dept, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Gimenez, German] Quilmes Athlet Club, Phys Therapy Dept, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Menayed, Rodrigo] Atlanta Athlet Club, Phys Therapy Dept, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Villalba, Federico] KINE Sports Clin, Phys Therapy Dept, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Villalba, Federico] Favaloro Univ, Sports Physiotherapy Specialty, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Tondelli, Eduardo] Univ Buenos Aires, Ctr Studies Sport & Phys Act, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Clarsen, Ben] Federat Int Football Assoc, Med Res Subdiv, Zurich, Switzerland; [Clarsen, Ben] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Oslo, Norway; [Baldjian, Agustin Carlos] River Plate Athlet Club, RA-1425 Buenos Aires, Argentina								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001588468800001	41	Article; Article		
J	Pasanen, Kati; Alanko, Lauri; Osmala, Johanna; Kenny, Sarah J.; Vasankari, Tommi; Aaltonen, Sari								Injuries among professional ballet dancers in Finland: a prospective cohort study over five ballet seasons (FinBallet Study)								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	6			466	474		10.1080/00913847.2025.2570113			NOV 2 2025	2025	ObjectiveThe aim of this prospective cohort study was to examine the incidence and characteristics of injuries in professional ballet dancers across multiple seasons.MethodsHundred-and-sixteen ballet dancers (median age 24; range 18-40, females 53%) from a professional ballet company agreed to participate and were followed for up to five ballet seasons. All dance-related injuries requiring a visit to a medical doctor were recorded by in-house physiotherapists. Injury rates per 100 dancer seasons were calculated and injury characteristics (i.e. anatomical location, tissue type, severity, and mechanism) were described.ResultsHundred-and-sixty injuries occurred in 311 dancer-seasons, comprising an injury rate (IR) of 51.5 injuries (95% CI 45.9 to 57.0) per 100 dancer-seasons. Eighty-three percent of the injuries affected the lower limbs (IR 42.4, 95% CI 37.0 to 47.9). The ankle was the most injured body region (IR 15.4, 95% CI 11.4 to 19.5), followed by lower leg (IR 8.4, 95% CI 5.3 to 11.4), and knee (IR 6.1, 95% CI 3.5 to 8.8). Thirty-nine percent of injuries involved muscle/tendon structures, and 29% involved ligaments/joints. Fifty-seven percent of injuries were severe, causing more than 28 days absence from dance. Of all injuries, 57% were sudden onset, and 43% were gradual onset injuries.ConclusionResults highlight the need for effective interventions to reduce the high incidence of lower limb injuries, including ankle sprains, tendon issues, muscle strains, and stress fractures in professional ballet dancers.		[Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Integrat Neuromuscular Sport Performance Lab, 2500 Univ Drive NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada; [Pasanen, Kati; Vasankari, Tommi] UKK Inst, Tampere, Finland; [Alanko, Lauri] Pihlajalinna Sports Clin, Helsinki, Finland; [Osmala, Johanna] Finnish Natl Opera & Ballet, Helsinki, Finland; [Kenny, Sarah J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kenny, Sarah J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Arts, Sch Creat & Performing Arts, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Vasankari, Tommi] Tampere Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Technol, Tampere, Finland; [Aaltonen, Sari] Univ Helsinki, Inst Mol Med Finland FIMM, Helsinki, Finland; [Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Integrat Neuromuscular Sport Performance Lab, 2500 Univ Drive NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001587661700001	26	Article; Article		
J	Karapinar, Merve; Smitheman, Hayley Powell; Cone, Stephanie Grace; Silbernagel, Karin Gravare								Effects of an exercise program on calf muscle characteristics in patients with Achilles tendinopathy								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				127	133		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.013			NOV 2025	2025	Objective in participants with Achilles tendinopathy. Additionally, it explored the relationships between muscle adaptations and functional outcomes. Design: Prospective observational study. Setting: Laboratory-based assessment. Participants: Thirty-five participants with Achilles tendinopathy completed a 16-week exercise program. Main outcome measures Muscle EI of the medial (MG) and lateral gastrocnemius (LG) and soleus (SOL) was assessed using ImageJ. B-mode ultrasound was used to measure MG(CSA), LG(CSA), and SOL thickness at baseline and post-intervention. Functional outcomes included single-leg countermovement jump (CMJ), drop CMJ, and heel-rise (HR) endurance tests. Results MG(EI) and LG(EI) significantly decreased on both symptomatic sides (p < 0.05, d = 0.5-0.8). MG(CSA) and LG(CSA) increased (p < 0.05, d = 0.3), while SOLEI and SOL thickness did not change (p > 0.05). Heel-rise work improved (p < 0.05, d = 0.4), but jump heights did not. Regression analysis showed that age, BMI, and muscle changes did not predict improvements in HR work (Adjusted R-2 = 0.11, p > 0.05). Conclusions: The exercise program reduced muscle EI and increased hypertrophy but did not significantly improve calf endurance. Further research should explore how muscle adaptations affect function in Achilles tendinopathy rehabilitation.		[Karapinar, Merve] Suleyman Demirel Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Isparta, Turkiye; [Smitheman, Hayley Powell; Silbernagel, Karin Gravare] Univ Delaware, Dept Phys Therapy, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Cone, Stephanie Grace] Univ Delaware, Dept Biomed Engn, Newark, DE USA; [Silbernagel, Karin Gravare] Univ Delaware, Dept Phys Therapy, Newark, DE 19716 USA								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001593151700001	54	Article; Article		
J	Harrison, Mary P.; White, Darin W.; Kirkpatrick, Nathan								Power play: the future of college football in an era of centralization								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	2			351	372		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0185			MAY 8 2026	2026	PurposeThis conceptual case study examines the strategic crossroads facing SEC (Southeastern Conference) Commissioner Greg Sankey and Big Ten Commissioner Tony Petitti as they respond to perceived inequities in the College Football Playoff and consider whether to centralize power through a breakaway Super League or reform the system from within.Design/methodology/approachThe case uses a narrative, decision-based format grounded in real-world developments, public records, and media reporting. It incorporates comparative examples from global sports centralization efforts and applies a pragmatist-stakeholder theoretical lens to guide strategic and ethical analysis.FindingsThe case highlights how centralization offers financial and competitive advantages but introduces significant risks, including stakeholder backlash, legal scrutiny, and the potential erosion of tradition. Ultimately, the case underscores the complex balance between profit, tradition, and public accountability in reshaping college athletics.Research limitations/implicationsAs a teaching case, it simplifies certain dynamics for instructional clarity. It is best suited for discussion and exploration rather than generalizable conclusions.Practical implicationsBy examining real-world proposals like Project Rudy and the CSFL (College Student Football League), the case helps decision-makers anticipate stakeholder reactions, media implications, and governance challenges. It encourages critical thinking about how to balance tradition with innovation, and how to align institutional values with commercial pressures.Social implicationsIt raises ethical questions about access, equity, commercialization, and the cultural significance of college sports, especially for smaller institutions and underrepresented athletes.Originality/valueThis conceptual case study offers a timely and original exploration of college football's evolving power dynamics through the lens of strategic centralization. By integrating real-time developments with comparisons to global sports consolidations, it provides a fresh, multi-layered perspective on governance, athlete rights, media economics, and stakeholder management. It is especially valuable for sparking critical thinking about leadership, ethics, and institutional responsibility in high-stakes, high-visibility environments.		[Harrison, Mary P.; White, Darin W.; Kirkpatrick, Nathan] Samford Univ, Dept Entrepreneurship Management & Mkt, Brock Sch Business, Birmingham, AL 35229 USA; [Harrison, Mary P.] Samford Univ, Dept Entrepreneurship Management & Mkt, Brock Sch Business, Birmingham, AL 35229 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001587094300001	91	Article; Article		
J	Lei, Andy Man Kit; Cheng, Kuangyou Bruce								Biomechanical analysis of the knee joint during sidestepping: a fully immersive virtual reality approach to football defending scenarios								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	4			620	641		10.1080/14763141.2025.2568217			APR 3 2026	2026	Traditional sidestepping experiment often relies on simplified visual stimuli that lack ecological validity. This study aimed to develop a fully immersive, football-specific virtual reality (VR) system to examine knee biomechanics during sidestepping in response to realistic visual stimuli. Twelve male collegiate footballers performed unanticipated sidestepping in response to a virtual footballer avatar executing either non-deceptive (VF-ND) or deceptive (VF-D) dribbling. Despite similar approach velocity and stance time, participants exhibited greater knee flexion angles and abduction and internal rotation moments in VF-D trials. Secondary analyses compared the results with previously reported arrow-preplanned (A-PP) and arrow-unplanned (A-UP) trials from the same participants. Approaching velocity decreased, and stance time increased in the following order: A-PP, VF-ND, VF-D and A-UP. Knee flexion angles and abduction moments increased, while peak internal rotation moments decreased in the same order. These findings suggested that the VR-based approach imposed more realistic visuospatial and temporal constraints than traditional methods, enhancing ecological validity. As in real environment, players in VR can perceive subtle cues, distinguish deceptive from non-deceptive actions and adapt their movements accordingly. Practitioners should design their protocols to resemble real-world scenarios as closely as possible and interpret the biomechanical outcomes cautiously when comparing across different visual stimuli.		[Lei, Andy Man Kit; Cheng, Kuangyou Bruce] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lei, Andy Man Kit] Univ Lisbon, CIPER, Fac Motricidade Humana, Lisbon, Portugal; [Cheng, Kuangyou Bruce] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001587664100001	54	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Wenjing; Zhai, Fuxing; Bai, Yufei; Guan, Jing								Non-mega sport policy and economic development - a quasi-natural experiment based on the "National Football Model Counties"								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	1			218	237		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2024-0342			FEB 4 2026	2026	PurposeWhile sports events have emerged as new drivers for economic growth, previous studies have primarily focused on evaluating the direct economic benefits of such events. Few research has examined how policy intervention may amplify the economic benefits of non-mega sports events. Therefore, this paper provides a systematic evaluation of the non-mega sport policy, offering evidence-based insights for maximizing its economic impact.Design/methodology/approachThe introduction of Chinese National Football Model Counties (NFMC) in the year 2021 is a "quasi-natural experiment" to measure county-level non-mega sport policy. The study employs a difference-in-differences (DID) model using county-level panel data from China (2019-2023) to examine the economic impact of NFMC. Additionally, heterogeneity analysis is conducted considering local government poverty alleviation priorities and fiscal dependency. Finally, the study investigated the mechanisms through which NFMC effects local economic growth, with particular focus on income levels and industrial structure.FindingsThe NFMC policy intervention significantly enhances the local economic growth. This finding is consistent with a series of robustness checks. Furthermore, the effects of NFMC on economic growth are more significant in counties not designated as poverty alleviation areas compared to those that are. Additionally, for counties with less reliance on fiscal resources from local governments, the NFMC is more effective. Mechanism analysis shows that the NFMC improves the local economy through improved income levels, but not upgraded industrial structure.Originality/valueBy constructing a comprehensive county-level panel dataset, this study examines the causal effects of a non-mega sport policy, the NFMC, on local economic growth. The underlying mechanisms and heterogeneous impacts are further evaluated, enriching the literature on support policy assessment for non-mega sports events.		[Liu, Wenjing; Zhai, Fuxing] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Management, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Bai, Yufei] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Guan, Jing] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Guan, Jing] Beijing Technol & Business Univ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Bai, Yufei] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001585767900001	96	Article; Article		
J	Rotundo, Mario Pasquale; Murray, Nicholas G.; Allan, David; Tierney, Gregory								Instrumented mouthguards in NCAA American football: Validity and head acceleration event incidence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2213	2218		10.1177/17479541251378306			AUG 2026	2026	A growing body of evidence suggests that repetitive head acceleration events (HAEs), even in the absence of diagnosed concussion, could have implications for long-term neurological function. This study aims to determine the on-field validity of instrumented mouthguards (iMGs) in American football and to quantify HAE incidence in NCAA football players. Instrumented mouthguards were fitted to 35 male NCAA football players. Head kinematic data were collected during 68 player matches. On-field validity was determined through video review with positive predictive value (PPV) and sensitivity values calculated. HAE incidence was calculated as the number of HAEs per player match and stratified by Offense and Defense positions. On-field validity of the Prevent Biometrics iMG in NCAA American Football indicates a sensitivity of 0.89 and PPV of 0.98 based on false positive definitions. The mean incidence of HAEs above a range of peak linear acceleration (PLA) and peak angular acceleration (PAA) thresholds in Defense and Offense appear similar. The incidence of HAEs above 10 g was 11.2 and 11.3 HAEs per player match for Defense and Offense, respectively, while PAA incidence above 1.0 krad/s2 was 5.5 and 6.9 HAEs per player match for Defense and Offense, respectively. Incidence of HAEs above 30 g was 1.6 and 2.6 per player match and 0.9 and 1.4 for HAEs above 2.0 krad/s2 for Defense and Offense, respectively. The Prevent Biometrics iMG appears suitable for measuring HAEs in elite American football and benchmark HAE incidence in elite American Football lays a foundation for the development HAE mitigation strategies.		[Rotundo, Mario Pasquale; Allan, David; Tierney, Gregory] Ulster Univ, Nanotechnol & Integrated Bioengn Ctr NIBEC, Sch Engn, Belfast, North Ireland; [Murray, Nicholas G.] Univ Nevada, Sch Publ Hlth, Reno, NV USA; [Tierney, Gregory] Ulster Univ, Nanotechnol & Integrated Bioengn Ctr NIBEC, Sch Engn, Belfast, North Ireland								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001586202900001	35	Article; Article		
J	Sharp, Anthony P.; Neville, Jonathon; Cronin, John B.								Masterclass: Are you getting the most out of your triple hop testing?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				111	119		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.016			NOV 2025	2025	The triple hop test is a widely used, practical tool that allows physical therapists to assess an athlete's readiness to return-to-sport (RTS) following injury. However, recent consensus statements have raised concerns that hop distance alone may be insufficient to capture the complexity of functional recovery or to fully assess inter-limb symmetry, potentially masking readiness and increasing the risk of reinjury. In this Masterclass: exemplar kinetic and kinematic data for the triple hop are detailed; the utility of the quintuple hop introduced; the distinction between outcome and movement strategy variables discussed within an asymmetry context; and, the integration of accessible, cost-effective technologies within a tier-based framework for RTS assessment outlined. The aim of the article is to enhance the evaluation of movement strategies and support clinicians in making more informed and confident RTS decisions.		[Sharp, Anthony P.; Neville, Jonathon; Cronin, John B.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Cronin, John B.] Athlete Training & Hlth, Katy, TX USA; [Sharp, Anthony P.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001589048100001	55	Article; Article		
J	Brito, Andre V.; Carvalho, Diogo; Silva, Mayara; Ferreira, Francisco; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime; Fernandes, Ricardo J.								The effect of a prolonged tennis serve game on shoulder function, speed and precision								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3655	3674		10.1080/14763141.2025.2552172			DEC 2 2025	2025	Due to the constant high physical strain on tennis players during a match, the effect of a prolonged serve game on torque, power and work of the shoulder external and internal rotations, as well as on serve speed and precision, was investigated. Eighteen male competitive tennis players performed shoulder external and internal rotations (90 degrees of abduction) at 180 and 300 degrees/s on an isokinetic dynamometer before and after 12 points with one flat serve plus forehands and simulated backhands. When comparing pre and post moments, torque and power decreased in external (0.41 +/- 0.07 vs 0.39 +/- 0.06 N.m/kg and 71.1 +/- 27.3 vs 59.7 +/- 27.1 W) and internal (0.54 +/- 0.10 vs 0.50 +/- 0.13 N.m/kg and 91.7 +/- 30.7 vs 80.1 +/- 38.1 W) rotations at 300 degrees/s, with p <= 0.05. Serve speed decreased after the fifth and sixth point (142.0 +/- 20.1 vs 132.5 +/- 15.3 km/h) and between clusters 1-6 and 7-12 (141.7 +/- 15.5 vs 134.9 +/- 12.4 km/h), with p <= 0.01. Serve precision decreased at the fifth and eighth points, with the highest score recorded at the end of the game. Training should focus on improving players ability to maintain performance during consecutive points, enhancing technical proficiency.		[Brito, Andre V.; Carvalho, Diogo; Silva, Mayara; Ferreira, Francisco; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2 D, Porto, Portugal; [Brito, Andre V.; Carvalho, Diogo; Silva, Mayara; Ferreira, Francisco; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP, Porto, Portugal; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, AMRED, Human Movement & Sports Performance Anal, Leon, Spain; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2 D, Porto, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP, Porto, Portugal								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001585088100001	82	Article; Article		
J	Popowczak, Marek; Zwierko, Teresa								Effects of Oculomotor Scanning on Agility Performance: Gender and a Type of Team Sport Comparison								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				263	274		10.5114/jhk/196002			OCT 2025	2025	There is limited evidence of recording eye movements in real-time while performing specific motor tasks in team games in response to environmental stimuli. This study aimed to examine how elite basketball and volleyball athletes adopted strategies during agility tasks, based on the type of team sports and gender. A total of 60 skilled players from both sports (30 males and 30 females), aged 16-18 years, participated in this study. Agility variables were assessed using the "Five-Time Shuttle Run to Gates" test, based on the "stop and go" protocol. To determine variables of fixation and saccade eye movements during the agility task, a mobile eye-tracking system was employed. MANOVA showed statistically significant main effects of gender and the type of team sport on agility (for both factors, p < 0.001, eta(2)part > 0.14) and on the number of saccades (eta(2)part = 0.16, p = 0.002; eta(2)part = 0.10, p = 0.018). Additionally, gender affected the number of fixations (eta(2)part = 0.08, p = 0.037). Regression analysis was used to explore the correlation between oculomotor variables and agility, indicating that for female basketball players, the number of saccades (ss = 1.04, B = 0.10) and the average velocity of saccades (ss = 0.79, B = 0.02) were the primary factors explaining agility variability. However, for male basketball players, agility test outcomes were largely determined by the duration of saccadic movements (ss = 0.79, B = 0.02). The findings suggest that the oculomotor scanning strategy in agility tasks significantly impacts athletic performance, and is influenced by the type of team sports and gender.		[Popowczak, Marek] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Wroclaw, Poland; [Zwierko, Teresa] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Funct & Struct Human Res Ctr, Lab Kinesiol, Szczecin, Poland; [Popowczak, Marek] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Wroclaw, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400020	45	Article; Article		
J	Mardokhi, Mozhgan; Rahimi, Mohammad Rahman; Saedmocheshi, Saber; Vasquez-Munoz, Manuel; Andrade, David Cristobal								L-arginine Supplementation Does Not Enhance Anaerobic Performance in Trained Female Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				67	77		10.5114/jhk/197336			OCT 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate the effect of eight weeks of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) plus L-arginine supplementation on performance of highly trained female handball players. Thirty-two female handball athletes (age: 20.69 +/- 0.45 years, body height: 169.38 +/- 0.57 cm, body mass: 66.49 +/- 1.06 kg) were randomly assigned to a placebo (n = 8), a L-Arg (n = 8), a HIIT+placebo (n = 8) or a HIIT+L-Arg (n = 8) group. HIIT was performed 2 days/week for 8 weeks and consisted of running at 90 to 95% of maximum aerobic speed with 15 s of active recovery, with all training sessions performed on a handball court. The L-arginine supplementation was 0.1 g/kg on training days and 0.05 g/kg on rest days. Performance was assessed using a comprehensive battery of tests, including the 20-m sprint test, the T-agility test, the Cooper test, and the running-based anaerobic sprint test (RAST). Both high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and Larginine (L-Arg) supplementation led to significant improvements in anaerobic power and 20-m sprint speed (p < 0.05). However, combining HIIT with L-Arg resulted in improvements solely in anaerobic power, without yielding any additional benefits compared to HIIT alone. Notably, all intervention groups (L-Arg, HIIT, and HIIT + L-Arg) experienced significant declines in agility performance (p < 0.05). None of the strategies improved performance during Cooper test. These findings suggest that L-Arg supplementation during HIIT does not confer additional performance benefits and may even exert detrimental effects. Therefore, HIIT alone appears to be sufficient for enhancing anaerobic capacity in highly trained female handball players, and the use of L-Arg supplementation may be unnecessary or counterproductive in this context.		[Mardokhi, Mozhgan; Rahimi, Mohammad Rahman; Saedmocheshi, Saber] Univ Kurdistan, Fac Humanities & Social Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Sanandaj, Iran; [Vasquez-Munoz, Manuel] Univ Mayor, Ctr Hlth Data Observat & Anal CADS, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Santiago, Chile; [Andrade, David Cristobal] Antofagasta Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, High Altitude Med & Physiol Res Ctr, Biomed Dept,Exercise Appl Physiol Lab, Antofagasta, Chile; [Rahimi, Mohammad Rahman] Univ Kurdistan, Fac Humanities & Social Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Sanandaj, Iran; [Andrade, David Cristobal] Antofagasta Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, High Altitude Med & Physiol Res Ctr, Biomed Dept,Exercise Appl Physiol Lab, Antofagasta, Chile								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400006	45	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Hongli; Ma, Hongtao								The Effect of Sport Motivation on Burnout in Adolescent Athletes-Chain Mediating Effect of Life Satisfaction and Mental Toughness								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				239	252		10.5114/jhk/201433			OCT 2025	2025	This study explored the effects of sport motivation on athlete burnout among adolescent athletes and examined the mediating roles of life satisfaction and mental toughness. A total of 638 adolescent athletes (mean age = 15.64 +/- 2.28 years) were assessed using the athletic motivation scale, the satisfaction with life scale, the adolescent mental toughness scale, and the athlete burnout questionnaire. Data were analyzed using SPSS Process for chain mediation analysis. Results indicated that sport motivation negatively predicted athlete burnout in both male (r = -0.523) and female athletes (r = -0.491). For male athletes, the total effect of sport motivation on athlete burnout was-0.374, with direct and indirect effects of-0.188 and-0.186, respectively. For female athletes, the total effect was-0.601, with direct and indirect effects of-0.363 and-0.238, respectively. Male athletes showed indirect effects through mental toughness (effect = -0.174; share = 46.52%) and the chain mediation of life satisfaction and mental toughness (effect = -0.072; share = 19.25%). Female athletes exhibited indirect effects through life satisfaction (effect = -0.043; share = 7.15%), mental toughness (effect = -0.151; share = 25.12%), as well as the chain mediation of life satisfaction and mental toughness (effect = -0.044; share = 7.32%). This study highlights the role of sport motivation in reducing athlete burnout. For female athletes, burnout was influenced by all three mediating pathways (life satisfaction, mental toughness, and their chain mediation). For male athletes, the effects were predominantly mediated through mental toughness and the chain mediation of life satisfaction along with mental toughness.		[Zhang, Hongli; Ma, Hongtao] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Ma, Hongtao] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400018	47	Article; Article		
J	Yu, Jiangchuan; Huang, Zhifeng								The Indirect Influence of Stroke Performances on Point Scoring and Conceding in the Four Primary Table Tennis Match Formats								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				223	237		10.5114/jhk/196651			OCT 2025	2025	The indirect impact of stroke performance on the dynamics of winning and losing points in table tennis has been seldom explored. This study aimed to uncover and contrast the nuances of stroke execution-both the techniques utilized and the strategic ball placements-in four principal types of table tennis matches: right-handed versus right-handed handed (LLM). These matches exhibit distinct indirect effects on rally outcomes, categorized as positive (winnerassisting) and negative (momentum-diminishing). Our analysis encompassed 190 men's singles matches with a total of 15916 points played. Employing chi-square tests for multiple bivariate analyses and subsequent post-hoc pairwise comparisons, we found that for the development of winner-assisting strokes, the ball placements from the normal sidespin serve, backspin/no-spin serve, short push, long push, forehand flip, backhand flip, and both non-topspin and topspin loop/drives for both the forehand and the backhand had small to large effects (p < 0.05-0.001, ES: 0.084-0.266). Similarly, for the induction of momentum-diminishing strokes, the ball placements from the aforementioned serves, short/long push, and flips, along with the non-topspin and topspin loop/drives, blocks and lobs, yielded small to moderate effects (p < 0.05- 0.001, ES: 0.050-0.206). These insights are invaluable, enabling professionals to grasp table tennis strategies, enhance training, and execute match plans with precision.		[Yu, Jiangchuan; Huang, Zhifeng] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yu, Jiangchuan] Beijing Sport Univ, Key Lab Sport Training Gen Adm Sport China, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yu, Jiangchuan] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yu, Jiangchuan] Beijing Sport Univ, Key Lab Sport Training Gen Adm Sport China, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400017	38	Article; Article		
J	Kulis, Szymon; Jablonski, Tomasz; Rossi, Carlo; Skorulski, Maciej; Kossek, Anna; Sienkiewicz-Dianzenza, Edyta; Pietraszewski, Przemyslaw; Golas, Artur; Gajewski, Jan								Application of the Performance Index for Monitoring Anaerobic Endurance of Competitive Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				161	170		10.5114/jhk/196823			OCT 2025	2025	The purpose of the study was to investigate the effectiveness of the performance index (PI) in monitoring anaerobic endurance of adult competitive swimmers during a nine-week intervention. The study included 30 male competitive swimmers. Participants were allocated to an advanced or an intermediate group, taking into account their training experience and sport results. Each participant was tasked with swimming eight lengths of a 25-m pool at maximum speed and full commitment with front crawl and with 15-s rest intervals between subsequent laps at the start of the intervention (pre-test) and nine weeks later (post-test). The performance index determined by the average speeds in successive laps was analysed. No statistically significant differences were observed between the groups in the calculated performance index at the end of the training cycle. A repeated measures ANOVA revealed an interaction between TIME (a repeated factor) and GROUP (a fix factor) (F1.28 = 25.45, p < 0.0001, eta(2 )= 0.476). Swimmers from the intermediate group significantly improved their PI (p = 0.0002), while the advanced swimmers did not. Coaches could apply the methodology presented in this study to the specific requirements of their disciplines. The adaptability of the performance index method makes it a valuable tool for assessing anaerobic endurance among athletes of varying experience levels, though it does not serve as a means to directly enhance anaerobic endurance.		[Kulis, Szymon] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Dept Rehabil, Warsaw, Poland; [Jablonski, Tomasz] Kazimierz Wielki Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Dept Biol Fdn Phys Educ, Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Rossi, Carlo] Univ Palermo, Dept Psychol Educ Sci & Human Movement, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Unit, Palermo, Italy; [Skorulski, Maciej; Kossek, Anna; Sienkiewicz-Dianzenza, Edyta; Gajewski, Jan] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Pietraszewski, Przemyslaw; Golas, Artur] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Sports Theory & Practice, Katowice, Poland; [Kulis, Szymon] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Dept Rehabil, Warsaw, Poland								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400012	28	Article; Article		
J	Mendes, Diogo; Martinho, Diogo, V; Travassos, Bruno; Gouveia, Elvio R.; Saavedra, Nestor Ordonez; Sarmento, Hugo								Talent Selection in Portuguese National Futsal Teams								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				253	261		10.5114/jhk/199379			OCT 2025	2025	This study investigated the talent selection processes implemented in youth and adult national futsal teams. The initial database provided by the Portuguese Football Federation included 668 male futsal players, and statistical analysis was conducted with varying sample sizes. Binary logistic regressions were performed to determine the influence of futsal participation on the likelihood of achieving international status at the adult level. Subsequently, the age of first registration was plotted against the national team in which the first international appearance was recorded. Finally, the selection, re-selection, and de-selection of players from the under-17 youth national team to the adult team were described using frequencies and percentages. For the total sample, the results indicated that an earlier age at first registration, participation in the 1st Division, involvement in foreign competitions, and engagement with multiple clubs increased the likelihood of being selected for the international team. The analysis also considered the year in which youth national teams were developed. Before 1999, players demonstrated earlier registration ages; however, the timing of starting futsal practice became less relevant to attaining international adult status after 1999. Furthermore, a negligible percentage of youth national team players progressed to the senior national team, highlighting the collectivist approach employed by futsal national coaches. The findings of this study suggest that the transition of talent from youth to adult national teams warrants further investigation. Coaches should develop strategies to promote the development of youth talent as they progress towards adult-level status.		[Mendes, Diogo; Martinho, Diogo, V; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Mendes, Diogo; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, CIPER, FCDEFUC, Coimbra, Portugal; [Martinho, Diogo, V; Gouveia, Elvio R.] Interact Technol Inst, Lab Robot & Engn Syst, Funchal, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Portugal Football Sch, Portuguese Football Federat, Dafundo, Portugal; [Gouveia, Elvio R.] Univ Madeira, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Funchal, Portugal; [Saavedra, Nestor Ordonez] Univ Appl & Environm Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Sports Sci Program, Bogota, Colombia; [Mendes, Diogo; Martinho, Diogo, V] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Mendes, Diogo] Univ Coimbra, CIPER, FCDEFUC, Coimbra, Portugal; [Martinho, Diogo, V] Interact Technol Inst, Lab Robot & Engn Syst, Funchal, Portugal								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400019	31	Article; Article		
J	Aygun-Polat, Elif; Olmez, Sevim-Beyza; Hazar, Zeynep								The Reliability and Validity of the Leg Lateral Reach Test in Adolescent Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				183	190		10.5114/jhk/197429			OCT 2025	2025	Regular assessment of clinical measurements of trunk rotation flexibility that are valid and reliable is necessary to minimize the risk of injury and optimize performance in tennis players who perform repetitive trunk rotation. The objectives of this study were to investigate: (1) the intra-rater, inter-rater, and test-retest reliability of the leg lateral reach test (LLRT) in tennis players; (2) the minimum detectable change in the leg lateral reach test in tennis players; and (3) the correlation between leg lateral reach and seated rotation tests in tennis players. Twenty-four adolescent tennis players were recruited for the study. To ascertain the reliability of the leg lateral reach test, two designated raters (rater 1 and rater 2) evaluated each participant with the test 5-7 days apart (session 1 and session 2). The leg lateral reach distances and the seated rotation angle from session 1 were correlated to evaluate the validity. The intra-rater and inter-rater analysis found almost perfect reliability (ICC >= 0.835, SEM <= 2.47 cm; ICC >= 0.881, SEM <= 2.02 cm, respectively). The correlation between the distance of the lateral leg reach for the dominant and non-dominant sides and the angle of seated rotation was fair (r 0.441 and 0.406, respectively). This study demonstrates the leg lateral reach test as a reliable and valid screening tool, accurately predicting the range of thoraco-lumbo-pelvic rotation in adolescent tennis players.		[Aygun-Polat, Elif] Ordu Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Ordu, Turkiye; [Olmez, Sevim-Beyza] Karamanoglu Mehmetbey Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Karaman, Turkiye; [Hazar, Zeynep] Gazi Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Ankara, Turkiye; [Aygun-Polat, Elif] Ordu Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Ordu, Turkiye								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400014	21	Article; Article		
J	Jusseaume, Jeremy; Fornasier-Santos, Charly; Morin, Jean-Benoit; Millot, Benjamin; Guilhem, Gael; Slawinski, Jean								Kinematic and Kinetic Comparison of Sprint-Specific Exercises: Impact on Maximal Sprint Acceleration Training								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				191	205		10.5114/jhk/211899			OCT 2025	2025	Sprint-specific exercises (SSEs) are believed to train force, power and/or velocity qualities involved in the acceleration phase of sprinting. However, the kinetics and the kinematics of such exercises have never been explored. The aim of this study was to compare mechanical variables (horizontal and vertical forces, horizontal velocity of the centre of mass and the ratio of force) between SSEs and an all-out 40-m sprint acceleration (Sref). These variables were measured over each situation (Sref and 14 SSE) using six track-embedded force plates. The horizontal forces and velocities were either lower or equal to those of the Sref (SSE grand average deviation from FVP '-0.29 N<middle dot>kg-1 for force; SSE grand average from Sref' -0.14 m<middle dot>s-1 for velocity), while vertical force output was mostly greater in the SSE than the Sref (SSE mean deviation from Sref '0.49 N<middle dot>kg-1). The ratio of force was lower or equal for the SSE compared to Sref. Despite large inter-individual variability, these SSEs seem useful to stimulate vertical force production, and not horizontal as hypothesised by coaches. These results suggest the importance of analysing the SSE used during training, from a force-velocity point of view, to better characterize their effectiveness.		[Jusseaume, Jeremy; Fornasier-Santos, Charly; Millot, Benjamin; Guilhem, Gael; Slawinski, Jean] French Natl Inst Sport Expertise & Performance, Sport Expertise & Performance Lab, Paris, France; [Morin, Jean-Benoit] Univ Lyon, UJM St Etienne, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, St Etienne, France; [Millot, Benjamin] French Athlet Federat FFA, Performance Optimizat Team, Paris, France; [Slawinski, Jean] French Natl Inst Sport Expertise & Performance, Sport Expertise & Performance Lab, Paris, France								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400015	26	Article; Article		
J	Huminska-Lisowska, Kinga; Labaj, Pawed P.; Zielinska, Kinga								Unique Athletic Gut Microbiomes and Their Role in Sports Performance: A Narrative Review								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				79	97		10.5114/jhk/202642			OCT 2025	2025	The human gut microbiome, a diverse community of microorganisms, plays a crucial role in digestion, metabolism, immune function, and brain health. Key metabolites produced by the gut microbiota, such as short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and bile acids, are essential for energy production, metabolic regulation, and immune system modulation. The gut microbiome's composition is influenced by factors including diet, exercise, sleep, and age, and disruptions are linked to various health conditions. Elite athletes exhibit unique gut microbiota profiles that contribute to their exceptional performance and recovery. Their microbiomes are not only richer, but also possess unique microorganisms and functional capabilities, alongside distinct genetic landscapes that support their high-level physiological demands. This review focuses specifically on the athletic gut microbiome, exploring how it differs from that of an active or a sedentary individual, adapts to different training phases, extreme conditions like heat and hypoxia, and prolonged exertion. It highlights the dual role of the gut microbiome in both enhancing athletic performance and potentially contributing to disease development, particularly due to the prolonged exertion and stress associated with years of intense competition. The review also explores the implications of microbiome changes following periods of intense physical activity and their impact on the athlete's overall health. Finally, it evaluates athlete-specific interventions, including prebiotics, probiotics, and synbiotics, aimed at mitigating negative effects on the gut microbiome while supporting health and optimizing performance.		[Huminska-Lisowska, Kinga] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Culture, Gdansk, Poland; [Labaj, Pawed P.; Zielinska, Kinga] Jagiellonian Univ, Malopolska Ctr Biotechnol, Krakow, Poland; [Huminska-Lisowska, Kinga] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Culture, Gdansk, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400007	91	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Xiaolong; Wei, Xin								Impact of a Talent Development Environment on Sport Commitment: The Case of Chinese Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				291	303		10.5114/jhk/208751			OCT 2025	2025	The study aimed to examine the effect of various factors in the talent development environment (TDE) on the sport commitment of Chinese athletes and whether this effect differed across various sport levels. We surveyed 176 Chinese athletes using a questionnaire. Stepwise regression and five-fold cross-validation were used to identify key factors in the TDE that influenced sport commitment. Multiple linear regression was then used to examine differences across sport levels. Long-term development focus had a significant positive effect on the sport commitment of sub-elite and elite athletes (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05, respectively). The support network negatively affected sport commitment only in sub-elite athletes (p < 0.01), while long-term development fundamentals positively influenced sport commitment only in elite athletes (p < 0.05). Creating a TDE that aligns with the requirements of long-term development focus is beneficial for enhancing sport commitment. The application of support networks should be directed toward long-term success while avoiding excessive emphasis on short-term success. Although the stage-specific nature of athlete development and the unique characteristics of the China's sports system may limit the immediate effect of long-term development fundamentals on sport commitment in the early stages of an athlete's career, their role in preventing burnout underscores their continued importance. This study provides a theoretical foundation and practical guidance for enhancing sport commitment and offers a potential pathway to addressing premature retirement among Chinese athletes.		[Zhang, Xiaolong; Wei, Xin] Hubei Univ Technol, Sch Phys Educ, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Wei, Xin] Hubei Univ Technol, Sch Phys Educ, Wuhan, Peoples R China								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400022	62	Article; Article		
J	Shu, Linjie; Zhang, Jiacheng; Chen, Tingting; Dong, Hui; Wang, Zhen; Chen, Jiancai; Hu, Min; Liao, Jingwen								Associations of Bilateral Deficit during Jumping with Physical Performance in Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				29	42		10.5114/jhk/196460			OCT 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate the associations of bilateral deficit (BLD) during jumping with physical performance represented by linear sprints and changes of direction (CODs) in tennis players. Thirty-eight tennis players (10 females and 28 males) completed a test program that included three types of jumping tests to determine BLD, two types of linear sprint tests (10 m and 20 m) to assess sprint performance, and three types of COD tests (505COD, 5105COD, and T-test) to evaluate COD performance. The three types of jumping tests included countermovement jumps (CMJs), squat jumps (SJs), and horizontal countermovement jumps (HCMJs). The bilateral index (BI) in jump height (JH), flight time (FT), peak force (PF), peak power (PP), average power (AP), and the force impulse (FI) were then calculated to quantify BLD. Change of direction deficit (CODD) was calculated by subtracting linear sprint test time from COD test time. Results showed that the BI during the CMJ was positively correlated with the linear sprint index (1 correlation, r = 0.33, p = 0.045) and most COD indices (19 correlations, r = 0.32-0.40, p = 0.013-0.049). The BI during the SJ was positively correlated with linear sprint indices (2 correlations, r = 0.32-0.35, p = 0.033-0.049) and most COD indices (17 correlations, r = 0.32-0.44, p = 0.006-0.049). The BI during the HCMJ was positively correlated with COD indices (12 correlations, r = 0.32-0.41, p = 0.010-0.049). Conclusively, BLD during jumping is positively associated with linear sprint and COD performance in tennis players, indicating that lower limb BLD could serve as an index to optimize physical performance and training.		[Shu, Linjie; Dong, Hui; Wang, Zhen; Chen, Jiancai; Hu, Min; Liao, Jingwen] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Guangdong Prov Key Lab Phys Act & Hlth Promot, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jiacheng; Chen, Tingting] Guangdong Univ Finance, Dept Phys Educ, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Hu, Min; Liao, Jingwen] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Guangdong Prov Key Lab Phys Act & Hlth Promot, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400003	39	Article; Article		
J	Lozano, Demetrio; Carton-Llorente, Antonio; Gilart-Iglesias, Virgilio; Marcos-Jorquera, Diego; Manchado, Carmen								Physical Demands of Handball Referees: A Big Data Analysis between the EHF Men's and Women's EUROs 2022								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				171	181		10.5114/jhk/202371			OCT 2025	2025	Handball referees face significant physical demands during the games that can influence the accuracy of their decisions. The aim of this study was to compare the movement profile of the referees during the mens and womens EHF 2022 EUROs. A total of 60 referees were evaluated using a local positioning system which provided data on their total distance, pace, accelerations, decelerations, and time spent in different speed zones. To automate the proposed methodology, a system was designed based on three phases: 1) capture of information on the activities and the context of the match through sensor networks, the LPS system and WebScraping techniques; 2) information processing based on Big Data Analytics; 3) extraction of results based on a descriptive analytics approach. The analysis revealed that referees in the women's tournament covered greater total and high-speed distances, but the accelerations were greater in the men's championship. Despite these differences, the referees running pace, analyzed in fixed 5-min time intervals, followed a similar pattern across tournaments, identifying the first 10 min of play as the most demanding scenarios. These findings highlight the importance of adapting physical training of referees according to the specific demands of each competition.		[Lozano, Demetrio; Carton-Llorente, Antonio] San Jorge Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Zaragoza, Spain; [Gilart-Iglesias, Virgilio; Marcos-Jorquera, Diego] Univ Alicante, Dept Comp Sci Technol & Computat, San Vicente Del Raspeig, Spain; [Manchado, Carmen] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, San Vicente Del Raspeig, Spain; [Manchado, Carmen] European Handball Federat, Methods Commiss, Vienna, Austria; [Carton-Llorente, Antonio] San Jorge Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Zaragoza, Spain								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400013	31	Article; Article		
J	Vermeulen, Stefan; De Bleecker, Camilla; Spanhove, Valentien; Segers, Veerle; Willems, Tine; Roosen, Philip; De Ridder, Roel; Vanrenterghem, Jos								Comparison of Jump-Landing Biomechanics during and after Fatigue: Investigation on the Optimal Timing of Screenings under Fatigue								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				55	65		10.5114/jhk/200421			OCT 2025	2025	Fatigue has been considered a risk factor for sports injuries, modulating full-body jump-landing biomechanics. Biomechanical assessments of jump-landing manoeuvres are typically performed before and after short-term fatigue protocols, but changes during the protocol are often neglected. Therefore, this study investigated spike jump-landing strategy alterations during and following a short-term fatigue protocol in volleyball. Forty-three healthy, adult, male volleyball players participated in this study. Three-dimensional full-body kinematics were collected when performing spike jump-landings before, during and after a short-term fatigue protocol specific for volleyball. Full-body sagittal plane joint angles were calculated and analysed with curve analysis using one-way repeated measures ANOVA and post-hoc paired sample t-tests to investigate fatigue effects (p < 0.05). A significant main effect of fatigue was found for all kinematic variables (p = 0.015-0.041). More specifically, more pelvis-trunk flexion and less hip, knee, and ankle (dorsi-) flexion were observed during and after the protocol compared to baseline (p = 0.001-0.003). Moreover, less hip and knee flexion was observed during the protocol compared to after fatigue (p = 0.001-0.005). In conclusion, significant kinematic changes were found with fatigue, and these were somehow more pronounced during fatigue, possibly due to decreased attention towards the jump-landing task execution. A decision tree was provided to help researchers, coaches and/or clinicians in determining whether screenings should be better performed during or after fatigue, based on practical considerations.		[Vermeulen, Stefan; De Bleecker, Camilla; Spanhove, Valentien; Willems, Tine; Roosen, Philip; De Ridder, Roel] Univ Ghent, Dept Rehabil Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Vermeulen, Stefan; Vanrenterghem, Jos] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Segers, Veerle] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Vermeulen, Stefan] Univ Ghent, Dept Rehabil Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Vermeulen, Stefan] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Leuven, Belgium								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400005	33	Article; Article		
J	Kinoshita, Kazuaki; Hoshino, Yuichi; Yokota, Naoko; Fukuda, Masayuki; Hirata, Mika; Nishizawa, Yuichiro								The Impact of Lower Back Pain on Hip Extension and Lumbosacral Lateral Flexion in Junior Gymnasts during Back-Bending								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				19	28		10.5114/jhk/196318			OCT 2025	2025	We sought to compare the spine and lower limb alignment using inertial measurement units (IMUs) in athletes with and without low back pain (LBP). Fifty junior gymnasts were divided into two groups: those with (n = 12) and without LBP (n = 38). IMU sensors were placed throughout the body. Participants were instructed to perform back-bending. The movements of shoulder, thoracolumbar, lumbosacral, hip, and knee joints were assessed. Additionally, differences between thoracolumbar and lumbosacral joints were evaluated. In the sagittal plane, lumbosacral extension was greater in the no-LBP group (37.7 degrees +/- 13.6 degrees) than in the LBP group (24.6 degrees +/- 20.4 degrees, p < 0.05, d = 0.85). Thoracolumbar extension was similar in the no-LBP (74.1 degrees +/- 14.4 degrees) and LBP groups (84.5 degrees +/- 20.4 degrees, p > 0.05, d = 0.66). The difference between thoracolumbar and lumbosacral extension was 36.4 degrees +/- 22.4 degrees in the no-LBP group and 59.8 degrees +/- 34.2 degrees in the LBP group, which was statistically significant (p < 0.05, d = 0.41). Hip extension was greater in the no-LBP group (10.7 degrees +/- 7.1 degrees) than the LBP group (5.5 degrees +/- 7.6 degrees, p < 0.05, d = 0.73). In the frontal plane, diminished lumbosacral joint lateral flexion was observed in the no-LBP group (5.8 degrees +/- 4.6 degrees) compared to the LBP group (11.1 degrees +/- 8.3 degrees, p < 0.05, d = 0.45). Junior gymnasts with LBP demonstrated reduced ranges of motion in hip and lumbosacral extension, along with further extension of the thoracolumbar beyond the lumbosacral joints while back-bending. Additionally, lateral flexion was observed at lumbosacral joints.		[Kinoshita, Kazuaki] Shijonawate Gakuen Univ, Fac Rehabil, Dept Phys Therapy, Osaka, Japan; [Hoshino, Yuichi] Kobe Univ, Grad Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Yokota, Naoko] Kishimoto Orthoped Rehabil Clin, Dept Rehabil, Osaka, Japan; [Fukuda, Masayuki; Hirata, Mika] Kobe Kaisei Hosp, Ctr Rehabil, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Nishizawa, Yuichiro] Hiro Sports Clin, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sanda, Hyogo, Japan; [Kinoshita, Kazuaki] Shijonawate Gakuen Univ, Fac Rehabil, Dept Phys Therapy, Osaka, Japan								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400002	28	Article; Article		
J	Fasold, Frowin; Engel, Patrick; Klatt, Stefanie								Lateral Differences in Cutting Abilities in Team Handball Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				149	159		10.5114/jhk/200617			OCT 2025	2025	Change of direction movements are highly relevant for performance in team sports. While bilateral movement patterns appear advantageous, research indicates unilateral dominance in cutting manoeuvres among handball athletes. This means, cutting manoeuvres in the direction of the throwing arm are executed faster than those against the direction of the throwing arm. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether this unilateral dominance stemmed from differences in physical capabilities. We predicted that the specific speed differences in cutting could be explained by lateral power differences. Thirty-two handball athletes completed lateral jump tests and a handball-specific change of direction test. Movement speed during the test was determined via video analysis. Participants showed significantly higher movement speed and significantly higher jump distances in the direction of the throwing arm. However, a significant interaction for both variables indicated that differences in the jump width could not fully explain the differences in movement speed. This likely indicates that the reasons of unilateral differences in cutting manoeuvres are not only based on physical capabilities. Coordinative-technical aspects or psychological variables should be investigated in further research as basis for an evidence-based training concept in educating the bilateral unpredictable abilities in handball players.		[Fasold, Frowin; Engel, Patrick; Klatt, Stefanie] German Sport Univ Cologne, Sect Cognit Team Sports, Cologne, Germany; [Fasold, Frowin] German Sport Univ Cologne, Sect Cognit Team Sports, Cologne, Germany								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400011	37	Article; Article		
J	Staskiewicz-Bartecka, Wiktoria; Zydek, Grzegorz; Michalczyk, Malgorzata Magdalena; Mroszczyk, Wojciech; Kardas, Marek								Assessment of the Risk of Orthorexia Nervosa and Attitudes Towards Their Own Bodies among Amateur and Professional Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				275	290		10.5114/jhk/201971			OCT 2025	2025	Orthorexia Nervosa, although not recognized as an official mental disorder, is a behavior characterized by a pathological focus on healthy eating. The purpose of the study was to assess the risk of Orthorexia Nervosa and attitudes toward one's own body among amateur and professional soccer players. The survey was administered among 137 male soccer players, both amateur and professional, from different Polish leagues. A mixed method survey (direct and electronic) was applied, using the D & uuml;sseldorfer Orthorexia Scale and the Body Esteem Scale to assess Orthorexia Nervosa risk and attitudes towards one's own body. The survey was administered between February and April 2024. The results showed that professional soccer players had higher satisfaction with their bodies compared to amateurs. Approximately 27% of the participants were at risk of Orthorexia Nervosa, regardless of their sports level. The analysis showed a weak but statistically significant correlation between the risk of Orthorexia Nervosa and scores on the upper body strength subscale. The results suggest that professional athletes may have a better relationship with their bodies, which may result from a more systematic and conscious approach to training and diet. At the same time, it is confirmed that Orthorexia Nervosa is present among soccer players. The study underscores the need for awareness of the risk of Orthorexia Nervosa among soccer players and points to the importance of support at both the amateur and professional levels.		[Staskiewicz-Bartecka, Wiktoria; Kardas, Marek] Med Univ Silesia, Dept Food Technol & Qual Evaluat, Katowice, Poland; [Staskiewicz-Bartecka, Wiktoria; Michalczyk, Malgorzata Magdalena] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Zydek, Grzegorz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sport Nutr, Katowice, Poland; [Mroszczyk, Wojciech] Bruk Bet Termal Nieciecza, Soccer Club, Zabno, Poland; [Staskiewicz-Bartecka, Wiktoria] Med Univ Silesia, Dept Food Technol & Qual Evaluat, Katowice, Poland; [Staskiewicz-Bartecka, Wiktoria] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400021	49	Article; Article		
J	Liapaki, Pinelopi; Soultanakis, Helen; Kalomenidis, Ioannis; Clemente-Suarez, Vicente Javier; Mourtakos, Stamatis; Zakynthinos, Spyros								Effects of Apnoea versus Normal Breathing on Physiological Responses during High-Intensity Interval Training in Swimming								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				111	124		10.5114/jhk/195587			OCT 2025	2025	The objective of this research was to examine the impact of conventional breathing versus apnoea technique on acid-base equilibrium, physiological reactions, and performance throughout high-intensity interval training sessions in swimming. Two groups of sixteen athletes completed 6 x 50-m intervals of freestyle swimming with normal breathing and apnoea at maximum intensity, with a 1-min rest interval. Capillary blood gasses (pH, PCO2, PO2, HCO3, Hct, Hb) were collected at four measurement time points: 1) at rest, 2) at rest just after the 3rd repetition, 3) at finish, and 4) at the 10th min of recovery. Measured variables included the heart rate (HR) during swimming, lactate (La) concentration and swimming time (t50). Uncompensated metabolic acidosis, exhibiting greater prominence during apnoea, was attributed to heightened lactic acidosis under both breathing conditions. Despite experiencing bradycardia, swimmers demonstrated faster completion times during apnoea. In conclusion, during repeated high-intensity short-distance swimming, specifically 50 m of freestyle, apnoea enhances sprint performance without compensating for metabolic acidosis.		[Liapaki, Pinelopi] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Med Sch, Athens, Greece; [Soultanakis, Helen] Univ Southern Calif, Dept Biol Sci, Human & Evolutionary Biol Sect, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Kalomenidis, Ioannis] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Med, Dept Crit Care & Pulm Med 1, Athens, Greece; [Clemente-Suarez, Vicente Javier] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Med Hlth & Sports, Madrid 28670, Spain; [Clemente-Suarez, Vicente Javier] Univ Coast, Res Grp Culture Educ & Soc, Barranquilla, Colombia; [Mourtakos, Stamatis] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Med, Dept Physiol, Athens, Greece; [Zakynthinos, Spyros] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Med, Dept Crit Care & Pulm Med, Athens, Greece; [Liapaki, Pinelopi] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Med Sch, Athens, Greece								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400009	41	Article; Article		
J	Najafabadi, Sayedmohsen Mortazavi; Ashtiani, Mohammed Najafi; Zagrodny, Bartlomiej; Grzelczyk, Dariusz								Examining the Impact of Visual Perturbation Caused by Virtual Reality on Postural Stability								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				99				43	54		10.5114/jhk/197097			OCT 2025	2025	Application of virtual reality has gained traction as a promoting tool in rehabilitation techniques, particularly in the enhancement of postural balance. This study aimed to explore the effects of various virtual reality environments on the postural control of young adults. Twenty-five active collegiate students (14 females and 11 males) participated in this cross-sectional investigation. Participants experienced four distinct virtual environments: (1) a wall approaching at a constant speed, (2) a wall accelerating towards them, (3) a tilting wall, and (4) a wall that returns after tilting. Postural sway was assessed using a pedobarographic platform, and the center of pressure matrices was computed. A one-way repeated measures analysis of variance was conducted to analyze the postural sway metrics across the reference and the four experimental conditions. Significant alterations were detected in maximum sway excursion (p = 0.004), and sway variability (p < 0.001) in the anterior-posterior axis, as well as sway variability in the medial-lateral axis (p = 0.022). Pairwise comparisons indicated that the environments featuring the accelerating wall and the returning wall upon tilting produced the most significant changes. Conversely, maximum sway velocity and sway area variables did not exhibit significant changes in either direction. The findings suggest that virtual reality environments, particularly those simulating tilting or movement, considerably challenge postural control without inducing simulator sickness. Furthermore, virtual reality offers a cost-effective means to simulate realistic visual disturbances, which can be beneficial for designing balance training based on virtual reality like exergame therapies.		[Najafabadi, Sayedmohsen Mortazavi; Zagrodny, Bartlomiej; Grzelczyk, Dariusz] Lodz Univ Technol, Dept Automat Biomech & Mechatron, Lodz, Poland; [Ashtiani, Mohammed Najafi] Tarbiat Modares Univ, Fac Med Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Tehran, Iran; [Najafabadi, Sayedmohsen Mortazavi] Lodz Univ Technol, Dept Automat Biomech & Mechatron, Lodz, Poland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001605557400004	50	Article; Article		
J	Abellaneda, Severine; Klass, Malgorzata; Bonnechere, Bruno; Van Cant, Joachim								Influence of pre-surgery characteristics and sports practice level on return to sport after ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				93	100		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.014			NOV 2025	2025	Objectives: 1) To compare pre-surgery characteristics, pre-injury sports level, and 6-month recovery outcomes between patients with successful (sRTS) and unsuccessful (noRTS) return to sport at 24 months post-ACLR; 2) To identify whether pre-surgical characteristics or pre-injury sports level predict noRTS. Design: Longitudinal cohort study. Participants: 40 patients with ACLR. Main outcome measures: Pre-surgery characteristics were collected and the level of sports practice was assessed using Tegner and Marx questionnaires, and the Noyes Sports Activity Rating Scale (NSARS). At 6 months a second evaluation was conducted. At 24 months, patients were divided into two groups: sRTS and noRTS. Results: Pre-injury NSARS score was higher in noRTS (92.5 [80; 100]) compared to sRTS group (85 [72.5; 86.2]; p = 0.03). The multivariate model that best predicts noRTS (AUC = 0.83; p = 0.011) combines a higher pre-injury NSARS (AOR = 1.07 [1.01-1.14]; p = 0.001), more associated injuries (AOR = 1.55 [0.98-2.42]; p = 0.043), and longer injury to surgery time interval (AOR = 1.15 [0.91-1.46]; p = 0.21). Conclusion: Clinicians should consider key risk factors (e.g. high pre-injury NSARS score, multiple associated injuries, delayed surgery) to tailor rehabilitation and improve return to pre-injury sports level 24 months post-ACLR.		[Abellaneda, Severine] Ctr Hosp Haute Senne, Clin Traumatol Sport, Pole Appareil Neuromusculo Squelett, Soignies, Belgium; [Klass, Malgorzata] Univ Libre Bruxelles, Fac Human Motor Sci, Res Unit Biometry & Exercise Nutr, Brussels, Belgium; [Klass, Malgorzata] Univ Libre Bruxelles, Lab Appl Biol, Brussels, Belgium; [Klass, Malgorzata] Univ Libre Bruxelles, ULB Neurosci Inst, Fac Human Motor Sci, Res Unit Appl Neurophysiol, Brussels, Belgium; [Bonnechere, Bruno] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, REVAL Rehabil Res Ctr, B-3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Bonnechere, Bruno] Hasselt Univ, Data Sci Inst, Technol Supported & Data Driven Rehabil, B-3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Bonnechere, Bruno] PXL Univ Appl Sci & Arts, Dept PXL Healthcare, B-3500 Hasselt, Belgium; [Abellaneda, Severine; Van Cant, Joachim] Univ Libre Bruxelles, Fac Human Motor Sci, Res Unit Rehabil Sci, Brussels, Belgium; [Van Cant, Joachim] Univ Libre Bruxelles, Fac Human Motor Sci, Res Unit Rehabil Sci, Brussels, Belgium								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001589512300002	34	Article; Article		
J	Rogowski, Isabelle; Degot, Matthieu; Capel, Olivier; Vigne, Gregory; Loursac, Romain; Hager, Jean-Philippe; Blache, Yoann; Neyton, Lionel								The progression of shoulder functional profile in male rugby union players from the academy to the professional level								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				83	92		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.012			NOV 2025	2025	Objective: To investigate the changes in shoulder functions with age, playing position, dominance and injury history in elite male rugby union players. Design: Observational. Setting: Sport setting. Participants: 162 players in U16, U18, U21 and professional squads. Main outcome measures: Participant-reported outcome measures, maximal isometric internal and external rotation strength at glenohumeral joint, stability using Upper Quarter Y-Balance Test, power using Seated Single-Arm Horizontal Push Test (SSAHPT), and speed, power and resistance-to-fatigue using modified-Closed Kinetic Chain Upper Extremity Stability Test. Results: The strength (eta(2) = [0.24; 0.25]; p < 0.001) and power (eta(2) = [0.36; 0.47]; p < 0.001) increased with increase in age, while stability and resistance-to-fatigue remained similar, and speed abilities decreased at professional level (eta(2) = 0.10; p < 0.001). The forwards' shoulders were stronger (eta(2) = [0.02; 0.14]; p = [<0.001; 0.02]) and more powerful (eta(2) = 0.12; p < 0.001) than those of backs, while backs' shoulders presented higher speed abilities (eta(2) = 0.22; p < 0.001) and resistance-to-fatigue (eta 2 = 0.04; p = 0.02). No bilateral differences were found, except for SSAHPT, for which dominant side presented higher performance than nondominant one (eta(2) = 0.12; p < 0.001). The injury history only affected the perceived functions (eta(2) = [0.15; 0.18]; p < 0.001). Conclusion: Understanding the progression of shoulder functions in male rugby union players is useful for designing injury prevention and performance enhancement programs from the academy to professional levels.		[Rogowski, Isabelle; Degot, Matthieu; Vigne, Gregory; Blache, Yoann] Univ Lyon 1, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricie, UR 7424, UFRSTAPS, 27-29 Blvd 11 Novembre 1918, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France; [Capel, Olivier; Vigne, Gregory; Loursac, Romain; Hager, Jean-Philippe; Neyton, Lionel] FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Ctr Orthoped Santy, 24 Ave Paul Santy, F-69008 Lyon, France; [Capel, Olivier; Loursac, Romain; Hager, Jean-Philippe] Lyon Olymp Univ Rugby, 60 Ave Tony Garnier, F-69007 Lyon, France; [Neyton, Lionel] Hop Pr Jean Mermoz, Ramsay Sante, 55 Ave Jean Mermoz, F-69008 Lyon, France; [Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Lyon 1, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricie, UR 7424, UFRSTAPS, 27-29 Blvd 11 Novembre 1918, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001589512300001	62	Article; Article		
J	El Oraiby, Maryam; Kiygi-Calli, Meltem								Rethinking performance measurement in esports: How games shape coaching priorities for amateur player development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			97	108		10.1177/17479541251378643			FEB 2026	2026	With the rising popularity of esports, the demand for effective performance assessment methods has become critical for coaching practices. Esports performance evaluation remains a complex task due to the unique demands of different games and the dynamic nature of the esports ecosystem. Additionally, the effectiveness of performance indicators in evaluating amateur players in the early stages of their careers remains unclear. To investigate this, we conduct expert interviews with head coaches of three distinct team games, Valorant, PUBG Mobile, and League of Legends, to uncover critical factors that coaches consider in evaluating amateur player performance. Our findings reveal fundamental challenges that question the validity of standardized indicators for performance measurement. Coaches highlighted that while quantitative metrics, such as in-game statistics, are commonly used in tracking player progress, they must be carefully contextualized within the unique demands of each game and the team dynamics. Moreover, coaches underscore that soft skills are as determinant as individual technical skills for fostering future career success in esports, particularly in team-based games where communication and stress management play a crucial role. These findings highlight the need for a more nuanced, coach-driven approach to performance assessment for amateur players. This exploratory study suggests that performance measurement frameworks need to account for context-dependent competencies and player career development in esports.		[El Oraiby, Maryam; Kiygi-Calli, Meltem] Kadir Has Univ, Dept Business Adm, TR-34083 Fatih, Istanbul, Turkiye; [El Oraiby, Maryam] Kadir Has Univ, Dept Business Adm, TR-34083 Fatih, Istanbul, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001583890700001	65	Article; Article		
J	Bandak, E.; Thorborg, K.; Alkaer, T.; Zebis, M. K.; Waehrens, E. E.								Stakeholder perspectives on injury prevention training in girls' and women's elite football: A group concept mapping study involving coaches physical performance coaches, physical therapists, medical doctors, and club management								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				75	82		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.004			NOV 2025	2025	Objectives: To identify factors influencing use of injury prevention training among stakeholders of Danish girls' and women's elite football teams. Design: Cross-sectional Group Concept Mapping study using mixed-methods. Setting: Girls' and women's elite football. Participants: Head coaches, assistant coaches, physical performance coaches, physiotherapists, medical doctors, and management. Results: Thirty-seven stakeholders brainstormed on: "What determines whether injury prevention training is conducted on your team?" followed by sorting and rating of statements. Subsequent multidimensional scaling and hierarchical cluster analysis followed by cluster map validation by stakeholders, resulted in a final model comprising eight themes influencing injury prevention training use in Danish girls' and women's elite football: (1) injury prevention is important, (2) prioritizing, (3) physical facilities, (4) players attitudes and understandings, (5) physical performance coach, (6) football coaches, (7) interdisciplinary cooperation, and (8) overall framework with "interdisciplinary cooperation" rated highest. Conclusions: Stakeholders in Danish girls' and women's elite football identified interconnected factors influencing the use of injury prevention training, with "interdisciplinary cooperation" rated as most important. The findings reveal a complex interplay across structural, individual, team, and organizational levels, offering insights that can inform context-specific strategies to promote the implementation of evidence-based injury prevention training in Danish girls' and women's elite football.		[Bandak, E.; Alkaer, T.] Univ Copenhagen, Dept Biomed Sci, Blegdamsvej 3B, DK-2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark; [Bandak, E.; Alkaer, T.; Waehrens, E. E.] Bispebjerg & Frederiksberg Hosp, Parker Inst, Nordre Fasanvej 57, DK-2000 Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Denmark; [Thorborg, K.] Univ Copenhagen, Amager Hvidovre Hosp, Fac Hlth Sci, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Kettegard Alle 36, DK-2650 Hvidovre, Denmark; [Zebis, M. K.] Univ Coll Copenhagen, Fac Hlth, Dept Midwifery Physiotherapy Occupat Therapy & Psy, Sigurdsgade 26, DK-2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark; [Zebis, M. K.] Bispebjerg & Frederiksberg Hosp, Inst Sports Med Copenhagen, Nielsine Nielsens Vej 11, DK-2400 Copenhagen, Denmark; [Waehrens, E. E.] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Publ Hlth, Occupat Sci User Perspect & Community Based Res, Odense, Denmark; [Bandak, E.] Univ Copenhagen, Dept Biomed Sci, Blegdamsvej 3B, DK-2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001587223400002	35	Article; Article		
J	Nezhad, Zeinab Gasavi; Ansari, Majid; Bahramizadeh, Mahmood								"Effects of ankle orthoses on postural balance and gait parameters in athletes with ankle injuries: A systematic review"								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				56	74		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.005			NOV 2025	2025	Objectives: Ankle injuries in athletes often impair balance and gait, affecting performance. Although ankle orthoses are used to improve stability, their effects on postural control and gait remain unclear. This review investigates the impact of ankle orthoses on balance and gait in injured athletes. Methods: This systematic review, registered in PROSPERO (XXXXXX) and conducted following PRISMA 2020 guidelines, included interventional and observational studies up to April 30, 2025. Databases searched were PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, and CINAHL. Two independent reviewers conducted screening, data extraction, and quality assessment using the EPHPP tool. Certainty of evidence was evaluated using GRADE, and results were narratively synthesized due to study heterogeneity. Results: Thirty-three studies involving 736 athletes with ankle injuries were included. Semi-rigid orthoses improved postural balance and gait by reducing peak inversion angles (10-15 %) and enhancing dynamic stability. Soft braces improved dynamic stability, measured by tests such as the Star Excursion Balance Test. Rigid braces often limited joint motion and compromised performance. Overall, evidence certainty was low (GRADE rating) due to methodological limitations, especially in blinding and confounder control. Conclusion: Semi-rigid ankle orthoses appear most effective in improving balance and gait post-ankle injury, with clinical relevance for sport-specific rehabilitation to enhance stability and reduce recurrence risks. High-quality randomized trials are needed to strengthen the evidence and guide sport-specific orthotic use.		[Nezhad, Zeinab Gasavi] Univ Social Welf & Rehabil Sci, Student Res Comm, Tehran, Iran; [Nezhad, Zeinab Gasavi; Bahramizadeh, Mahmood] Univ Social Welf & Rehabil Sci, Neuromusculoskeletal Rehabil Res Ctr, Tehran, Iran; [Nezhad, Zeinab Gasavi; Bahramizadeh, Mahmood] Univ Social Welf & Rehabil Sci, Sch Rehabil, Dept Orthot & Prosthet, Tehran, Iran; [Ansari, Majid] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Neurosci Inst, Sports Med Res Ctr, Tehran, Iran; [Nezhad, Zeinab Gasavi] Univ Social Welf & Rehabil Sci, Dept Orthot & Prosthet, Orthot & Prosthet, Kodakyar St,Daneshjo Blvd, Tehran 1985713834, Iran; [Bahramizadeh, Mahmood] Univ Social Welf & Rehabil Sci, Dept Orthot & Prosthet, Kodakyar St,Daneshjo Blvd, Tehran 1985713834, Iran								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001587223400001	63	Article; Article		
J	Rathwell, Scott; Brantner, Keegan; Young, Bradley W.								Coaches' Full Range Leadership Behaviors and University Athletes' Personal Development and Negative Experiences: Is It All About Relationship Building?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			146	156		10.1080/02701367.2025.2563903			JAN 2 2026	2026	Sport coaches can facilitate positive youth development in athletes. However, little is known about how coach behaviors that span the full range leadership model (i.e. FRLM) impact development. In this study, we asked whether FRLM coaching behaviors promote positive development outcomes and mitigate negative experiences in the university sport context and whether these effects are mediated by perceptions of a quality coach-athlete relationship. In total, 605 Canadian university athletes (Mage = 20.09 SD = 1.74) completed the Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire, the University Sport Experience Survey, and the Coach-Athlete Relationship Questionnaire. Mediation analyses assessed the explanatory role of athletes' perceived coach-athlete relationship in associations between coaches' leadership behaviors and athletes' reports of personal developmental outcomes and negative experiences. The coach-athlete relationship was positively associated with positive development outcomes in university athletes (i.e. initiative, basic skills, interpersonal relationships, teamwork and social skills, and adult network and social capital) and inversely associated with negative experiences (i.e. stress, negative peer interactions, social exclusion, and negative leadership). Findings only partially supported the assertion that transformational leadership promotes positive development and reduces negative experiences by enhancing the coach-athlete relationship. The results support benefits of transformational coaching when targeting positive development, similar to youth sport, but suggest the coach-athlete relationship has little explanatory value when examining associations between coach leadership and positive development outcomes in university sport. Instead, the coach-athlete relationship does help account for the mitigation of negative experiences in the university sport context.		[Rathwell, Scott; Brantner, Keegan] Univ Lethbridge, Lethbridge, AB, Canada; [Young, Bradley W.] Univ Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Rathwell, Scott] Univ Lethbridge, Fac Arts & Sci, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Lethbridge, AB T1K 3M4, Canada								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001583475300001	48	Article; Article		
J	Sharpe, Benjamin T.; Nicholson, Mitchell; Leis, Oliver; Poulus, Dylan; Birch, Phil D. J.; McNulty, Craig								Indexing league of legends performance: A systematic review and focus group study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			625	637		10.1177/17479541251381652			FEB 2026	2026	This study investigates competitive League of Legends performance indicators through systematic review and focus group analysis. A review of 15 studies identified 87 performance variables across eight domains: game metrics, skill, cognition, strategy, awareness, knowledge, vigilance, and physical/physiological factors. Focus groups with panellists consisting of competitive players (n = 15) from university, national, and international levels led to the construction of crucial insights: performance measurement should be role-specific; traditional statistics provide incomplete assessment without context; team synergy often supersedes individual skill; both consistency and peak performance represent distinct aspects of effectiveness; and evaluation criteria vary across competitive contexts. The findings suggest League of Legends performance is best conceptualised as an integrated dynamic system rather than isolated variables, challenging researchers to develop more sophisticated methodological approaches. The disconnection between statistical measures and player-perceived performance indicators highlights the need for multidimensional assessment frameworks that integrate objective metrics with subjective expertise. Future research should explore role-specific performance parameters, longitudinal tracking across competitive seasons, and advanced statistical techniques to test hierarchical relationships between cognitive capacities, skill execution, and performance outcomes.		[Sharpe, Benjamin T.] Univ Chichester, Inst Psychol Business & Human Sci, Chichester PO19 6PE, England; [Nicholson, Mitchell; Poulus, Dylan] Southern Cross Univ, Fac Hlth, Phys Act Sport & Exercise Res Theme, Lismore, Australia; [Leis, Oliver] Univ Leipzig, Fac Sport Sci, Leipzig, Germany; [Poulus, Dylan] Movember Inst Mens Mental Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Birch, Phil D. J.] Univ Chichester, Inst Appl Sci, Chichester, England; [McNulty, Craig] Queensland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Kelvin Grove, Qld, Australia; [Sharpe, Benjamin T.] Univ Chichester, Inst Psychol Business & Human Sci, Chichester PO19 6PE, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001581887500001	49	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Zhimin; Aisihaer, Nadilai; Wu, Jue; Zhang, Shaojie								When brand meets sport: a study of the interactive effects of brand perception and sport type on brand attitude								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	1			199	217		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2025-0107			FEB 4 2026	2026	PurposeThis study aims to explore how the interaction between brand perception (warmth vs. competence) and sport type (competitive sport vs. recreational sport) influences brand attitude. Specifically, it seeks to offer insights into how different sports marketing strategies can influence brand attitude toward nonsports brands.Design/methodology/approachWe employ a 2 x 2 experimental design to examine how sport type (competitive sport vs. recreational sport) and brand perception (warmth vs. competence) influence brand attitude.FindingsThe results show that the interaction between brand perception and sport type affects brand attitude. For nonsports brands perceived as warm, collaborating with recreational sports results in a more positive brand attitude. Conversely, for nonsports brands perceived as competent, collaborating with competitive sports enhances brand attitude. Furthermore, brand personality clarity mediates the impact of this interaction between brand perception and sport type on brand attitude.Originality/valueIn practice, numerous nonsports brands have successfully collaborated with sports events. However, the role of nonsports brands in sports marketing remains underexplored in existing literature. Building on the Brands as Intentional Agents Framework, this study proposes a novel perspective that the fit between brand perception and sport type is a key factor in determining the success of cross-industry collaborations. The findings contribute a practical framework to guide nonsports brands in selecting sponsorship contexts that reinforce intended brand perceptions and optimize strategic alignment.		[Zhou, Zhimin; Aisihaer, Nadilai; Zhang, Shaojie] Shenzhen Univ, Coll Management, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Wu, Jue] Jinan Univ, Sch Management, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wu, Jue] Jinan Univ, Sch Management, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001576297300001	68	Article; Article		
J	Simonelli, Carlo; Trecroci, Athos; Formenti, Damiano; Rossi, Alessio								Prediction of Subjective Fatigue in Professional Soccer Players: A Data-Driven Method to Optimize Training Approach to the Match								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			137	145		10.1080/02701367.2025.2560562			JAN 2 2026	2026	In soccer, predicting players' fatigue experienced immediately before a training session or match can help design training programs and optimize performance. This study aimed to identify the most important predictors of daily and match-day fatigue in six Italian professional soccer teams during a competitive season using a framework of big data analytics. Every morning, the players rated fatigue, sleep quality, muscle soreness, stress, and mood. After each training session or match, the session Rating of Perceived Exertion was obtained and multiplied by duration to calculate the training load (TL). A framework of four machine learning models (Decision Tree classifier, XGBoost classifier, Random Forest Classifier, and Logistic regression) was trained and tested on 30.211 examples (one full season of six teams) to assess their ability to predict the players' match-day fatigue. The machine learning models accurately predicted the players' subjective fatigue (models' range accuracy 70-82%). Specifically, in the prediction of match-day fatigue, stress, and mood of the previous day were the most influential factors. Mediation analysis unveils the relationship between TL of the day before the match and the perception of match-day fatigue, also mediated by mood and muscle soreness. Sport scientists and coaches can apply this framework to simulate the effects of different training programs, thus maximizing players' readiness and mitigating potential drops in performance associated with match-day fatigue in a real-world scenario.		[Simonelli, Carlo; Formenti, Damiano] Univ Insubria, Insubria, Italy; [Simonelli, Carlo] Vero Volley, Monza, Italy; [Trecroci, Athos] Univ Milan, Milan, Italy; [Rossi, Alessio] Feel Good Plus S R L MyPowerSet, Rome, Italy; [Simonelli, Carlo] Univ Insubria, Dept Biotechnol & Life Sci, Via Dunant 3, I-21100 Varese, Italy								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001577085700001	34	Article; Article		
J	Vannatta, C. Nathan; Kernozek, Thomas W.								Isometric hip strength does not directly influence injury in collegiate cross-country runners: a prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				58	63		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.07.006			SEP 2025	2025	Objective: The role of hip strength in the development of running related injuries is unclear. The aim of this study was to assess if runners who develop a running-related injury demonstrate less isometric hip strength than uninjured runners and to evaluate if runners demonstrating isometric hip weakness go on to experience more injuries than those with normal strength. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: University Campus. Participants: Seventy-nine (29 male and 50 female) collegiate cross-country runners. Main outcome measures: Running-related injury. Results: Runners who sustained an injury demonstrated 13.6 % (p = 0.035) less hip abductor strength and demonstrated 16.6 % (p = 0.035) greater asymmetry in hip abductor strength. Runners identified as having a weakness in hip strength did not demonstrate a greater proportion of injuries than runners noted to have normal strength. The relative risk of sustaining a running-related injury was not greater in runners identified as having hip weakness. Conclusions: Despite a theoretical link between hip weakness and the development of running-related injury, no difference in injury proportions was found in this cohort. However, differences in hip strength were identified between injured and uninjured runners. This may indicate that hip strength may mediate other factors that influence a runner's overall risk profile.		[Vannatta, C. Nathan] Gundersen Hlth Syst, Dept Sports Phys Therapy, Onalaska, WI USA; [Vannatta, C. Nathan; Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, La Crosse, WI USA; [Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Phys Therapy, Hlth Profess, La Crosse, WI USA; [Vannatta, C. Nathan] 3111 Gundersen Dr, Onalaska, WI 54650 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001541029200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Smulligan, Katherine L.; Brna, Madison L.; Hogg-Cornejo, Veronica; Petersen, Sarah; Sweeney, Emily; Meyers, Rachel; Howell, David R.; Armento, Aubrey M.								Low energy availability risk and in-season injuries among female adolescent athletes: A prospective cohort study over a school-season								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				37	43		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.011			NOV 2025	2025	Objective: To prospectively examine the association between pre-season low energy availability (LEA) risk and injury rates among female adolescents during the subsequent athletic season. Design: Prospective cohort. Setting: Academic research laboratory. Participants: Adolescent female athletes ages 13-18 years. Main outcome measures: The Low Energy Availability in Females Questionnaire (LEAF-Q) was completed at a preseason evaluation including questions related to LEA-indicators (injury history, gastrointestinal symptoms, menstrual function). LEAF-Q scores >= 8 indicate high LEA risk. Participants then completed weekly surveys assessing subsequent injuries sustained throughout the 9-week athletic season. We calculated an injury rate ratio using Poisson regression with LEAF-Q scores <8 or >= 8 as the predictor, number of sport-related time-loss injuries as the outcome, adjusting for covariates. Results: Fifty-nine participants completed the study (age = 15.9 +/- 1.43). Twelve participants sustained 14 injuries during the season. Most injuries were musculoskeletal (93 %; N = 13). Those with LEAF-Q scores >= 8 had a higher injury rate per athletic exposure vs LEAF-Q scores <8 (rate ratio = 3.41; 95 % confidence interval: 1.12-11.4; p = 0.03). Conclusion: Female adolescents at high LEA risk were more likely to sustain an injury than those at low LEA risk during a 9-week season. Pre-season LEA screening may identify individuals at risk for sustaining an in-season, sport-related injury.		[Smulligan, Katherine L.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Brna, Madison L.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Sch Med, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Hogg-Cornejo, Veronica; Petersen, Sarah; Sweeney, Emily; Meyers, Rachel; Howell, David R.; Armento, Aubrey M.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Hogg-Cornejo, Veronica; Petersen, Sarah; Sweeney, Emily; Howell, David R.; Armento, Aubrey M.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, Aurora, CO USA; [Smulligan, Katherine L.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA 02115 USA								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001580714500001	41	Article; Article		
J	Bergum, Jeppe Markussen; Lindman, Ida; Abrahamson, Josefin; Ramskov, Daniel; Nielsen, Rasmus O.								Runners with osteoarthritis sustain more injuries than healthy runners: An observational cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				44	49		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.008			NOV 2025	2025	Objective: Examine whether runners with specific diseases, including osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes, multiple sclerosis (MS), cancer, or multiple diseases, sustain more running-related injuries (RRI) compared with healthy runners in the Garmin-RUNSAFE Running Health Study. Design: 18-month cohort study. Setting/participants: Participants were runners >= 18 years, proficient in English, and using a Garmin watch. Exposure included having one of the following diseases: osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes type 1 or 2, multiple sclerosis (MS), cancer, or multiple diseases. Main outcome measures: Outcome was sustaining an RRI and was reported through weekly questionnaires. Appropriate censoring methods were applied for discontinued participation. Time-to-event analysis assessed after 1000 km running. Results: Of 7038 included runners, 6207 had no disease and 831 had at least one of the specified diseases. After 1000 km, 64.4 % of runners with a disease and 56.7 % of healthy runners sustained an RRI, yielding a cumulative incidence risk difference (cIRD) of 8.0 % (95 %CI: 4.0-12.0 %). Among separate diseases, a significant risk difference was observed between the osteoarthritis group and the healthy group, with a cIRD of 14.7 % (95 %CI: 9.0-20.4 %). Conclusions: A significantly higher incidence of running-related injuries was observed among adult runners reporting a disease. Runners with osteoarthritis is a particularly vulnerable sub-group.		[Bergum, Jeppe Markussen; Nielsen, Rasmus O.] Aarhus Univ, Dept Publ Hlth, Aarhus, Denmark; [Lindman, Ida] Univ Gothenburg, Inst Med, Sahlgrenska Acad, Sch Publ Hlth & Community Med,Gen Practice Family, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Lindman, Ida] Reg Vastra Gotaland, Res Educ Dev & Innovat Primary Hlth Care, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Abrahamson, Josefin] Sahlgrens Univ Hosp, Orthopaed Res Unit, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Abrahamson, Josefin] Univ Gothenburg, Sahlgrenska Acad, Dept Orthopaed, Inst Clin Sci, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Ramskov, Daniel] Univ Coll Aalborg, Dept Physiotherapy, Aalborg, Denmark; [Nielsen, Rasmus O.] Res Unit Gen Practice, Aarhus, Denmark; [Lindman, Ida] Univ Gothenburg, Inst Med, Sahlgrenska Acad, Sch Publ Hlth & Community Med,Gen Practice Family, Gothenburg, Sweden								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001580714500002	35	Article; Article		
J	Miralles-Iborra, Aaron; de los Rios-Calonge, Javier; Del Coso, Juan; Vera-Garcia, Francisco J.; Elvira, Jose L. L.; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Moreno-Perez, Victor								Spanish adaptation of the cutting movement assessment score (CMAS): Agreement and inter-rater reliability among Spanish-speaking football practitioners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76							10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.010			NOV 2025	2025	Objectives: To translate and cross-culturally adapt the Cutting Movement Assessment Score (CMAS) screening tool, and to preliminarily explore its reliability among Spanish-speaking football practitioners. Design: Translation and cross-cultural adaptation (phase 1) and cross-sectional reliability study (phase 2). Setting: Following international guidelines, three sports injury experts produced an initial Spanish adaptation of CMAS (CMAS-Sp). This version was then back-translated into English, and the translations were compared to produce a final version CMAS-Sp. Participants: Twenty-one sports practitioners, including 11 novices (<1 year of experience) and 10 experts (>5 years of experience), assessed four 90 degrees cutting actions with the CMAS-Sp. Main outcome measures: Factor analysis, internal consistency, inter-rater reliability and agreement. Results: Factor analysis suggested a single factor explaining 52.3 % of the variance. Internal consistency was acceptable (Cronbach's alpha = 0.70; McDonald's omega = 0.79). Reliability of the total score was excellent (ICC (2, k) [95 % CI] = 0.94, [0.82, 1.00]). Item-level percentage agreement ranged from 55 % to 89 % with Gwet's AC1 values ranging from moderate-to-almost perfect. Conclusion: The CMAS-Sp demonstrated acceptable agreement and good reliability for assessing cutting mechanics in Spanish-speaking practitioners, showing promise as an accessible screening tool pending further validation.		[Miralles-Iborra, Aaron; de los Rios-Calonge, Javier; Vera-Garcia, Francisco J.; Elvira, Jose L. L.; Moreno-Perez, Victor] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Avda Univ S-N, Alicante 03202, Spain; [Del Coso, Juan] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Sport Sci Res Ctr, Fuenlabrada, Spain; [Vera-Garcia, Francisco J.] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, ISABIAL Fdn, Inst Hlth & Biomed Res, Alicante, Spain; [Dos'Santos, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Manchester Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Grad Program Phys Educ, Recife, Brazil; [Moreno-Perez, Victor] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Fac Med, Translat Res Ctr Physiotherapy, Dept Pathol & Surg, Alicante, Spain; [Elvira, Jose L. L.] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Avda Univ S-N, Alicante 03202, Spain								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001580751900001	1	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Bo-Jhen								Return to sport after graft rupture of anterior cruciate ligament with a nonoperative management in a collegiate athlete: a case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76							10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.007			NOV 2025	2025	Introduction: Athletes who undergo anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction may encounter subsequent graft rupture and revision. The current literature is limited to investigating the sports performance and reinjury rate after revision ACL. Whether a nonoperative approach achieves successful clinical outcomes after graft rupture has not yet been reported. Case description: The patient was a 20-year-old male athlete who initially tore the left ACL when playing volleyball. By eight months after receiving ACL reconstruction and meniscal repair, the patient returned to the national collegiate tournament. However, the patient ruptured the graft 15 months postoperatively. Rehabilitation rather than a revision was elected, which focused on movement associated fear and volleyball-specific movements. Outcomes: By 7 months after the second injury, the patient achieved >90 % symmetry in a battery of hop distance tests and shuttle run speed. The functional score on the Knee Outcome Survey Sports Activities Scale improved from 37/55 to 55/55. The psychological readiness improved from 56/120 to 117/120 on the ACL-Return to Sport after Injury scale. The patient then returned to full competition. Conclusion: Personalized physical therapy may provide an option to promote return to sport after reinjuries. This case report illustrates the importance of addressing biopsychosocial factors in sport rehabilitation.		[Chen, Bo-Jhen] Genesis Phys Therapy, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chen, Bo-Jhen] Genesis Phys Therapy, Taipei, Taiwan								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001580241200002	51	Article; Article		
J	van Rozendaal, N.; Tak, I.; Barendrecht, M.; Jongerius, N.; Gokeler, A.								Effect of stroboscopic vision on single leg hop for distance performance in athletes after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: a case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76							10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.09.003			NOV 2025	2025	Objectives: Following an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury, athletes may become more reliant on their vision to maintain postural control. Wearing stroboscopic glasses, which intermittently disrupt visual input, can result in decreased vision. However, it remains unclear whether this affects single-leg hopping distance in athletes after ACL reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Case-control study. Setting: Sports physiotherapy clinics and sports clubs. Participants: Athletes (Tegner-score >5) who were (mean (standard deviation)) 16.9 (4.6) months after ACLR (n = 17, age:24.7 (4.6) years), and uninjured matched controls (n = 17, age:26.1 (3.6) years). Main outcome measures: Differences in jump distance (mean (95 % confidence intervals)) in the single-leg hop for distance (SLHD) test in normal and stroboscopic vision. Results: Overall, the SLHD performance was significantly lower (p = 0.001) under stroboscopic vision 116 (95 % confidence interval (CI): 106,125) cm than under normal vision 125 (95 %CI: 116,135) cm. The difference in SLHD performance between the two vison conditions was significantly greater for the ACLR group (p = 0.003): for ACLR athletes, it was 125 (95 %CI: 115,135) cm to 111 (95 %CI: 99,122) cm, and for controls, it was 126 (95 %CI: 112,139) cm to 121 (95 %CI: 107,135) cm. Conclusion: Stroboscopic vision significantly reduces SLHD outcomes. Greater reductions in hop performance were found in ACLR athletes compared to the control group under stroboscopic conditions. This suggests that the ACLR athletes rely more on visual input, which may be important to improve rehabilitation outcomes.		[van Rozendaal, N.; Barendrecht, M.; Jongerius, N.; Gokeler, A.] Amsterdam Univ Appl Sci, Master Performance Sport & Hlth, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van Rozendaal, N.; Tak, I.] Physiotherapy Utrecht Oost, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Tak, I.; Gokeler, A.] VUmc AMC IOC Res Ctr Excellence, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Tak, I.] Univ Amsterdam, Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gokeler, A.] Paderborn Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Exercise Sci & Neurosci Unit, Paderborn, Germany; [van Rozendaal, N.; Tak, I.] Bloemstr 65D, NL-3581 WD Utrecht, Netherlands								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001580241200001	59	Article; Article		
J	Freeston, J.; Hardy, S. G. J.; Ho, E.; Sinclair, P.; Chalmers, S.; Hollings, M.; Andersen, J. T.								Accuracy of a bat-mounted sensor for the measurement of bat speed among elite female cricket players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	4			564	575		10.1080/14763141.2025.2549136			APR 3 2026	2026	Currently, there are no validated field-based measures of bat speed in cricket. This study sought to validate a baseball bat-mounted sensor for use in cricketers. Nine professional female cricketers (19.9 +/- 2.8 years, 166.6 +/- 4.8 cm, 68.7 +/- 8.6 kg) performed 40 swings across four shot types (Cut, Drive, Pull, Slog-Sweep). Bat speed from a bat-mounted sensor was compared to optical motion capture (MoCap). Bat speed differed between shot types and ranged from 52.8 to 87.9 km/h. Device accuracy was determined by Bland-Altman bias and precision. The Drive shot had the smallest bias (-1.0 km/h; 1.4%), followed by the Slog-Sweep (2.0 km/h; 2.7%), Pull (2.0 km/h; 2.8%) then Cut shot, (2.5 km/h; 3.9%). The Cut shot had the greatest precision (2.7 km/h; 4.1%), followed by Pull (3.4 km/h; 4.7%), Slog-Sweep (4.0 km/h; 5.3%) and Drive (4.4 km/h; 6.3%). Kendall's tau analysis showed that proportional errors increased with higher bat speeds for all shots except Pull, (p < 0.05). The evidence supports use of the sensor for bat speed among female cricket players for all shots between speeds of 52.8-87.9 km/h. Caution is warranted for additional shot types, and speeds outside the explored range.		[Freeston, J.; Hardy, S. G. J.; Ho, E.; Sinclair, P.; Chalmers, S.; Hollings, M.; Andersen, J. T.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Freeston, J.] Cleveland Guardians Baseball Club, Cleveland Hts, OH 44115 USA; [Hardy, S. G. J.] Cricket New South Wales, Sydney, Australia; [Chalmers, S.] Univ South Australia, Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide, Australia; [Andersen, J. T.] Macquarie Univ, Biomech Phys Performance & Exercise BioPPEx Res Gr, Sydney, Australia; [Andersen, J. T.] Macquarie Univ, Fac Med Hlth & Human Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Freeston, J.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Freeston, J.] Cleveland Guardians Baseball Club, Cleveland Hts, OH 44115 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001577656700001	41	Article; Article		
J	de Oliveira, Henrique Lelis Clemente; Moreira, Pedro Vieira Sarmet; Menegaldo, Luciano Luporini								Biomechanical differences between horizontal and vertical single-leg jumps: what could each one reveal about functional impairments?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3706	3722		10.1080/14763141.2025.2557396			DEC 2 2025	2025	Jumps are used to assess musculoskeletal health. This study investigates neuromechanical differences in single-leg jumps for maximum height and distance regarding propulsion and landing phases to identify joint- and muscle-specific deficits. Nineteen healthy women performed both jump types, with assessments including 3D kinematics, ground reaction forces, and electromyography (EMG). Joint kinematics and torques were calculated using OpenSim, and muscle synergies derived from EMG data using Non-Negative Matrix Factorization guided by Variability Accounted For (VAF) metrics. Statistical parametric mapping compared the centre of mass displacement, angular trajectories, joint moments, and neural commands between jump types. Maximal height jumps require greater hip joint effort and emphasise knee mechanics and pelvic misalignments in the frontal plane. During landing, height jumps impose higher demands on eccentric knee extension and pelvis list, whereas distance jumps necessitate increased lumbar extension torques. The reduced knee extension torque and increased knee, trunk, and hip flexion angles in distance jumps may protect the knee. Landing from height jumps promotes anterior pelvic tilt in the sagittal plane. The analysis shows that two muscle synergies reconstruct propulsion EMGs, while landing requires three, indicating increased complexity. These findings highlight the need for customised assessments targeting specific neuromuscular and biomechanical aspects of lower-limb function.		[de Oliveira, Henrique Lelis Clemente; Moreira, Pedro Vieira Sarmet; Menegaldo, Luciano Luporini] Fed Univ Rio Janeiro, Biomed Engn Program, COPPE, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Moreira, Pedro Vieira Sarmet] Fluminense Fed Inst, Phys Educ Dept, Campos, RJ, Brazil; [Menegaldo, Luciano Luporini] Fed Univ Rio Janeiro, Biomed Engn Program, COPPE, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001576065200001	58	Article; Article		
J	Claudel, Jules; Clement, Julien								Analysing short-track speed skating performance factors								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3739	3752		10.1080/14763141.2025.2557400			DEC 2 2025	2025	Short-track speed skating is an incredibly precise sport, where even the smallest technical or physiological adjustment can profoundly impact performance, underscoring the importance of its study for achieving success. This study aims to identify short-track speed skating performance factors and quantify their impacts on athletes' performances. Twenty-nine short-track speed skaters (16 males and 13 females), with two different skill levels (National Elite and Junior Elite athletes), participated in this study. Movella IMU Link suits and Python scripts were employed to record and analyse one on-ice high-speed trial per athlete, focusing on lower body kinematics. From an initial pool of 535 tested factors, Pearson's product moment correlations and stepwise multiple linear regression identified seven significantly associated with lap time, with notable differences between sex and skill levels. Results revealed that inter-foot spacing and pelvic height, which are actionable by athletes, could each contribute to a gain of up to 0.51 seconds per lap if improved by 10 cm. For an average lap on a 500 m race, this means a 5.2%-time improvement. This research enhances the understanding of short-track speed skating performances by identifying factors that can improve lap times, offering practical implications for coaching strategies and athlete training programs.		[Claudel, Jules; Clement, Julien] Ecole Technol Super, 1100 Rue Notre Dame Ouest, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Clement, Julien] Ecole Technol Super, 1100 Rue Notre Dame Ouest, Montreal, PQ, Canada								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001576093300001	38	Article; Article		
J	Owen, Hannah; Winter, Stacy; Brown, Nicola; Legg, Hayley S.								International female rugby union players' perceptions of how the menstrual cycle affects players on and off the field								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			275	283		10.1177/17479541251378464			FEB 2026	2026	There is limited research on female rugby players, particularly concerning how the menstrual cycle affects performance. This study explored international female rugby players perceptions and experiences of how the menstrual cycle impacts both on and off-field performance. Twelve international female rugby players (aged 26 +/- 3.5 years) representing eight nations participated in one-to-one semi-structured interviews. Reflexive thematic analysis identified three themes: (1) cycle-sensitive behaviour modifications, (2) the mental burden of the menstrual cycle, and (3) audience apprehension. Athletes reported adjusting training routines to manage menstrual symptoms, with abdominal and breast pain often prompting avoidance of contact drills. Tight-fitting kit exacerbated discomfort during bloating, and concerns about leakage, odour, and visibility of menstrual products disrupted performance focus. The findings highlight the need for greater awareness and support around menstrual health in elite rugby. Future researchers should prioritise developing strategies to minimise the menstrual cycle's impact both on and off-field performance.		[Owen, Hannah; Winter, Stacy; Brown, Nicola] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Technol & Hlth Sci, London, England; [Legg, Hayley S.] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Educ & Appl Sci, Cheltenham, Glos, England; [Owen, Hannah] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Technol & Hlth Sci, London, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001576171600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Ozgen, Caner; Argan, Metin; Glasgow, Shelby Nicole; Yuce, Arif								Client retention strategies of early-career personal trainers: a case study of UGA Ramsey center								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	2			301	326		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0162			MAY 8 2026	2026	PurposeThis study aims to gain an in-depth understanding of the client retention strategies employed by early-career personal trainers (PTs) working at a university-based fitness center. Specifically, the study seeks to explore how the interactions PTs establish with facility management and clients influence these retention strategies.Design/methodology/approachA single-case design, was adopted as the primary methodological framework. Data was collected through semi-structured interviews conducted with PTs, managers, and clients (n = 14) and three months of intensive field observations. The rich and multi-source data were analyzed through open, axial, and selective coding procedures.FindingsFindings reveal that early-career PTs employ retention strategies such as building strong relationships, providing personalized attention, continuous motivation, and managing emotions. It was also found that high pricing and limited professional experience pose significant challenges to client retention. In contrast, facility management's support-through regular training opportunities, PT-client matching, and pricing adaptations-positively contributes to the retention strategies adopted by PTs. As a result of the interaction between PTs, customers and management, retention strategies were revealed to be shaped by focusing on communication, pricing and professional development.Originality/valueThis study provides original insights into client retention strategies by examining the dynamic interactions between early-career PTs, clients, and management within a university-based fitness center ecosystem. Additionally, study contributes theoretical depth to the client retention literature. Moreover, it extends the discourse beyond traditional customer-employee models by emphasizing the triadic nature of retention mechanisms (PT, management, client) in university-based environment.		[Ozgen, Caner; Argan, Metin; Yuce, Arif] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sports Management, Eskisehir, Turkiye; [Glasgow, Shelby Nicole] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA USA; [Ozgen, Caner] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sports Management, Eskisehir, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001571389700001	72	Article; Article		
J	Chalitsios, Christos; Stergiou, Nick; Nikodelis, Thomas								Multifractality of stride-to-stride variations in adolescent runners is sensitive to endurance training								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3675	3691		10.1080/14763141.2025.2552176			DEC 2 2025	2025	This study investigated the impact of training on stride-to-stride variations in adolescent runners. It was hypothesised that training would significantly affect the magnitude and temporal structure of stride-to-stride variability during running. Twelve competitive adolescent runners (age: 16.3 +/- 0.81) performed two 8-minute all-out running tests on a 400-m track, once at the start of the off-season (R1) and again after 6 weeks of structured training (R2). The study measured stride variability using the coefficient of variation (CV), monofractal analysis (DFA-alpha), and multifractal spectrum metrics (W and WAsym). No significant differences in CV and DFA-alpha between the two tests, suggesting stable magnitude and temporal structure of stride-to-stride variability in terms of monofractality. However, significant changes were observed in the multifractal spectrum, with a reduction in W and a shift in WAsym towards more symmetrical values after training. These results indicate that multifractal dynamics are a more sensitive metric to evaluate the effects of training on stride-to-stride variations in adolescent runners. The reduction of both W and WAsym leads to the assumption that alterations in neuromuscular control and adaptability in adolescent runners occurred due to training. Future research should further explore the utility of multifractal metrics in monitoring training progress and optimising performance in young athletes.		[Chalitsios, Christos; Stergiou, Nick; Nikodelis, Thomas] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci Thessaloniki, Biomech Lab, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Stergiou, Nick] Univ Nebraska Omaha, Dept Biomech, Div Biomech & Res Dev, Omaha, NE USA; [Stergiou, Nick] Univ Nebraska Omaha, Ctr Res Human Movement Variabil, Omaha, NE USA; [Chalitsios, Christos] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci Thessaloniki, Biomech Lab, Thessaloniki, Greece								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001572947700001	62	Article; Article		
J	Arede, Jorge; Ayala, Francisco; Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver; Angulo, Francisco; Aguiar, Ricardo; Schollhorn, Wolfgang								The moderating impact of maturation on locomotor performance responses and bilateral asymmetries to 11-week differential learning plyometric training in youth basketball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2293	2304		10.1177/17479541251376132			AUG 2026	2026	This study sought to examine the impact of a differential plyometric training (DL-PT) programme on measures of locomotor performance and bilateral asymmetries, while also assessing whether post-training responses were influenced by maturation. Thirty-three male youth basketball players from the same basketball club academy completed this study. All participants were tested before and after an 11-week DL-PT programme of 10 m sprint time, jump height (i.e., unilateral and bilateral countermovement jumps [CMJ]), and change of direction performance (Modified 505 agility test). The DL-PT programme was integrated into their regular basketball training routine and consisted of three sets of five jumps with 20 s of passive recovery between jumps and two minutes between sets, performed twice per week. Subjects were verbally instructed to execute different added fluctuations before each repetition. Bayesian inference was used to explore differences between pre-and post DL-PT programme on players' locomotor performance. A moderation model was conducted to analyze interactions of maturation as a continuous variable on the dependent variables. The results demonstrated statistically significant post-intervention improvements in locomotor performance measures, including bilateral and unilateral CMJ heights and change of direction (COD) times. Moderation analysis revealed significant interactions between maturity status (%PAH) and certain locomotor performance outcomes. Less mature individuals showed lower improvements in unilateral CMJ height but greater improvements in 180 degrees COD time. Tentatively, the main findings of this study suggest that maturational developments in the neuromuscular system offer some mechanistic explanation for the varied dose responses observed after the 11-week DL-PT programme.		[Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Sch Educ, Viseu, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Exercise & Hlth Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Ayala, Francisco; Angulo, Francisco; Aguiar, Ricardo] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Campus Excellence Mare Nostrum, Murcia, Spain; [Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver] Univ Loyola Andalucia, Dept Commun & Educ, Seville, Spain; [Schollhorn, Wolfgang] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sport Sci Training & Movement Sci, Mainz, Germany; [Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Sch Educ, Viseu, Portugal								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001573509400001	40	Article; Article		
J	Dekany, Marcell; Toth, Peter Janos; Csaki, Istvan; Nemes, Gabor; Salamon, Andras; Okros, Csaba								The evolution of time dimensions based on match analyses of male and female tennis players under 10 years of age								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2328	2337		10.1177/17479541251376809			AUG 2026	2026	The aim of the study is to analyze the time dimensions of individual "Play and Stay" tennis matches on clay courts among different age groups (under 8, under 9, and under 10) in Hungary. A total of 79 elite tennis players participated in the study (42 boys, 37 girls). The matches were recorded using a video camera, and data on Total Playing Time, Effective Playing Time, and Total Non-Playing Time were measured using digital timers. These data were then coded according to age group (U8, U9, and U10) and gender. To explore differences between age groups, the Kruskal-Wallis test (p < 0.05) was applied, and for differences between specific age categories, the Mann-Whitney U test (p < 0.025) was used. The percentage distribution of the time intervals revealed the dynamics of the matches and the ratio of workload to rest for the players. For the time dimensions variables, both genders showed parallel increase across age levels, which was attributed to changes in the scoring system. According to the results, the highest percentage of Effective Playing Time was observed in U8 girls matches (37.9%), while the longest Total Non-Playing Time was recorded in U10 girl matches (77%). The investigation of time dimensions provides valuable insights for organizing tournaments for players under 10 years old and for preparing children for match play.		[Dekany, Marcell; Toth, Peter Janos; Csaki, Istvan; Nemes, Gabor; Salamon, Andras; Okros, Csaba] Hungarian Univ Sports Sci HUSS, Dept Sport Games, Budapest, Hungary; [Dekany, Marcell] Hungarian Univ Sports Sci HUSS, Dept Sport Games, Budapest, Hungary								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001574045000001	44	Article; Article		
J	Gleadhill, Sam; Nagahara, Ryu								Asymmetry changes in sprinting do not relate to changes in sprint performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2406	2413		10.1177/17479541251377991			AUG 2026	2026	This study considers asymmetry during dynamic human movement as any biomechanical differences between left and right sides of the body. Previous studies have reported spatiotemporal and ground reaction force (GRF) asymmetries during sprint running and jumping tasks but have not found any associations between asymmetry and sprinting performance, however, have cross-sectionally examined asymmetry at only a single point in time. Therefore, the importance of asymmetry fluctuations across time or training sessions in relation to sprint performance changes remain unclear. The aim was clarifying whether changes in asymmetry of leg extension performance, measured by single-leg countermovement jumps (CMJ), influence fluctuations in sprinting asymmetry, and whether any such fluctuations are associated with changes in maximal running speed. Thirteen sprinters performed maximal effort 60-m sprints on a long force platform system and single-leg CMJs across two testing sessions, one month apart. Pearson's correlation coefficients were calculated to examine the relationships between the changes in spatiotemporal and GRF asymmetry across sessions with either the changes in CMJ asymmetry or changes in maximum running speed. Results demonstrated that small fluctuations in asymmetry occurred between sessions but were not significantly associated with sprint performance or CMJ asymmetry changes. Therefore, asymmetry may not need to be prioritised in periodic testing as a key performance indicator, and these findings provide valuable insight for coaches, suggesting that training should focus on known sprint determinants rather than minimising asymmetry. Moreover, asymmetry during sprinting may not necessarily relate to asymmetry of leg extension strength in non-injured well-trained sprinters.		[Gleadhill, Sam] Univ South Australia, Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Performance & Coaching Studies Sports & Budo, Kagoshima, Japan; [Gleadhill, Sam] Univ South Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001572522100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Schulz, Luc; Keller-Meier, Romano Marco; Lang, Grazia; Nagel, Siegfried; Stieger, Raphael; Schlesinger, Torsten								Centralizing sponsorship management in multi-divisional voluntary sports clubs: a multiple case study approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	2			327	350		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2025-0053			MAY 8 2026	2026	PurposeThere is a growing reliance among voluntary sports clubs (VSCs) on sponsorship revenue. However, due to their organizational structure, multi-divisional sports clubs tend to approach the same companies on multiple occasions, implement inconsistent strategies, or be characterized by redundant and inefficient structures. To address these issues, multi-divisional VSCs are increasingly professionalizing their sponsorship efforts by centralizing sponsorship management. The objective of this study is threefold: first, to identify the specific components of sponsorship management that multi-divisional VSCs seek to centralize; second, to examine the different approaches adopted by such clubs; and third, to analyze the underlying causes and mechanisms driving these processes.Design/methodology/approachAn exploratory case study design was applied to gain comprehensive insights into the centralization processes of three multi-divisional VSCs, with data being collected through document analysis (e.g. sponsorship reports, strategies) and expert interviews with key actors. Qualitative content analyses and visualization techniques were used to process the data.FindingsThe findings reveal that while multi-divisional VSCs target similar components in their centralization processes (e.g. sponsorship responsibility, sponsorship strategy/concept), they adopt varying levels of centralization. The reasons for this phenomenon are found both within the organizations themselves (e.g. available resources and network of volunteers) and in external factors (e.g. sponsors' perception of the club).Originality/valueThis explorative study sheds light on the opportunities for VSCs to enhance their organizational design and the structure of their sponsorship management through the lens of (de)centralization strategies.		[Schulz, Luc; Schlesinger, Torsten] Tech Univ Chemnitz, Inst Human Movement Sci, Chemnitz, Germany; [Keller-Meier, Romano Marco; Lang, Grazia; Nagel, Siegfried; Stieger, Raphael] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland; [Schulz, Luc] Tech Univ Chemnitz, Inst Human Movement Sci, Chemnitz, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001569451100001	50	Article; Article		
J	Cheng, Bingxu; Pyun, Do Young; Yilmaz, Serhat								Associations among the Premier League's social media marketing activities, consumer relationship quality and consumers' word-of-mouth intention in the Chinese market								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	1			28	44		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2025-0094			FEB 4 2026	2026	PurposeIn order to maintain the Premier League (PL)'s sustainable profitability and marketing success in the Chinese market, an understanding of cultivating the league's consumer relationship quality (CRQ) and the subsequent relationship with consumer behaviours is invaluable. Given the essential role of social media in bridging firms and consumers and the benefits of communication across consumers in marketing expansion, this research investigated the associations among consumers' perceived social media marketing activities (SMMA), CRQ and word-of-mouth (WOM) intention of the PL in the Chinese market.Design/methodology/approachThis research collected data from 502 Chinese consumers of the PL. The assumed structural model was examined utilising confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modelling.FindingsAs the result, this research revealed the significant relationships between the PL's perceived SMMA and all CRQ dimensions, which in turn were all significantly associated with WOM intention among Chinese consumers.Originality/valueThis research successfully contributes to the underexplored cultivation of CRQ through perceived SMMA and its consequential association with consumers' WOM intention among satellite fans, with empirical evidence of the PL within the Chinese market. For practitioners within the league, this research presents a robust framework for building and strengthening their relationship with Chinese consumers and further enhancing their marketing performance within the Chinese market.		[Cheng, Bingxu; Pyun, Do Young; Yilmaz, Serhat] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Cheng, Bingxu] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Cheng, Bingxu] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Cheng, Bingxu] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001569436100001	62	Article; Article		
J	Starrett, Angela; Abrams, T. Cade; Case, Layne; Stribing, Alexandra; Miedema, Sally Taunton; Brian, Ali								Examining the Relationship Between Actual and Perceived Motor Competence Profiles With Executive Function								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			103	113		10.1080/02701367.2025.2557377			JAN 2 2026	2026	The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between actual and perceived motor competence (AMC and PMC) profiles and executive function (EF) in preschool-aged children. Specifically, we aimed to identify distinct profiles of AMC and PMC, examine demographic differences across these profiles, and investigate how EF (cognitive flexibility and inhibitory attention) vary across profiles. Latent profile analysis (LPA) categorized preschoolers into distinct profiles based on their AMC and PMC. The analysis included 571 children aged 3-6 years from a large rural, publicly funded early childhood center in the southeastern United States. Data on AMC were collected using the Test of Gross Motor Development-3 (TGMD-3), while PMC was assessed through a modified Pictorial Scale of Perceived Movement Skill Competence (PMSC). EF was evaluated using the NIH-Toolbox Cognition Battery, focusing on inhibitory control and cognitive flexibility. Auxiliary variable methods were used to examine the relationships between the profiles and covariates, including age, gender, race/ethnicity, and EF. Five distinct profiles were identified, revealing varying levels of alignment between AMC and PMC. Significant associations were found between these profiles and EF components. Children with more accurate self-perceptions of their motor competence exhibited higher EF levels, particularly in cognitive flexibility and inhibitory attention. Results from this study underscore the importance of fostering accurate self-assessment in young children to support both motor and cognitive development. Thus, early childhood education programs should integrate activities that promote realistic self-evaluation of motor skills, which may enhance EF and contribute to healthier developmental trajectories.		[Starrett, Angela; Abrams, T. Cade; Miedema, Sally Taunton; Brian, Ali] Univ South Carolina, Child Dev Res Ctr, 1530 Wheat St, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Case, Layne] Calif State Univ Chico, Chico, CA 95926 USA; [Stribing, Alexandra] Kean Univ, Lyndhurst, NJ USA; [Starrett, Angela] Univ South Carolina, Child Dev Res Ctr, 1530 Wheat St, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001570332000001	48	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Fong-Jia; Chiu, Weisheng; Cho, Heetae								Corporate social responsibility interactivity and fan loyalty: exploring value-in-use in digital sports communities								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	1			154	173		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2025-0124			FEB 4 2026	2026	PurposeThis study explores how corporate social responsibility (CSR) interactivity on social media affects value co-creation among sports fans and enhances the sustainable management of professional sports organizations.Design/methodology/approachConvenience sampling was used, and data were collected from 420 fans of professional sports teams in Taiwan through an online survey. The data were analyzed using partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM).FindingsThe results revealed that perceived CSR interactivity on social media positively influenced team identification and fan engagement via value-in-use. Furthermore, value-in-use played a mediating role in enhancing behavioral loyalty through its impact on team identification and fan engagement.Originality/valueThis study contributes to understanding digital CSR strategies by showing how interactive CSR content on social media promotes value co-creation and fan loyalty in the context of professional sports. It underscores the mediating role of value-in-use in linking CSR interactivity to behavioral outcomes, such as fan engagement and loyalty. The insights generated by this study provide practical guidance for sports organizations seeking to achieve sustainable and socially rooted fan engagement through the strategic use of interactive CSR communication on digital platforms.		[Wang, Fong-Jia] Tamkang Univ, Off Phys Educ, New Taipei City, Taiwan; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001568498600001	73	Article; Article		
J	Sebastian, Nina; Garcia, Micah C.; Ford, Kevin R.; Norte, Grant E.; Murray, Amanda M.; Bazett-Jones, David M.								The influence of transitioning between grass and concrete surfaces on resultant tibial accelerations while running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	4			610	619		10.1080/14763141.2025.2558200			APR 3 2026	2026	Running over 'softer' surfaces is thought to lower the magnitude of impact forces. Current research is limited and inconclusive regarding the influence that transitioning between surfaces has on impact forces. Adult runners (n = 18) ran outdoors over a 50 m pathway that was half concrete and half grass at a self-selected speed. We recorded tibial acceleration from inertial measurements units and calculated resultant tibial acceleration for each step. We performed a three-way repeated measures ANOVA with Cohen's d effect sizes to compare resultant tibial acceleration among surface type (concrete, grass), transition step (preparation, response), and period (transition, steady state). We observed no significant interactions among surface type, transition step, and period for resultant tibial acceleration. We observed no significant main effect for transition step but observed that resultant tibial acceleration was significantly greater on concrete than grass and when transitioning compared to steady state, with small effect sizes. The increase in tibial acceleration during the transition period likely occurs across multiple steps when preparing or responding to a new surface. Runners that are concerned about experiencing higher tibial accelerations may want to consider running on softer surfaces and limiting the number of surface transitions during a training session.		[Sebastian, Nina; Garcia, Micah C.; Norte, Grant E.; Murray, Amanda M.; Bazett-Jones, David M.] Univ Toledo, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Mot Anal & Integrat Neurophysiol Lab, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Garcia, Micah C.] Thomas More Univ, St Elizabeth Coll Nat & Hlth Sci, Crestview Hills, KY 41017 USA; [Ford, Kevin R.] High Point Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, High Point, NC USA; [Norte, Grant E.] Univ Cent Florida, Inst Exercise Physiol & Rehabil Sci, Cognit Neuroplast & Sarcopenia CNS Lab, Orlando, FL USA; [Bazett-Jones, David M.] High Point Univ, Congdon Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, High Point, NC 27268 USA; [Garcia, Micah C.] Univ Toledo, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Mot Anal & Integrat Neurophysiol Lab, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Garcia, Micah C.] Thomas More Univ, St Elizabeth Coll Nat & Hlth Sci, Crestview Hills, KY 41017 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001567467800001	25	Article; Article		
J	Driller, Matthew W.; Mah, Cheri D.; Halson, Shona								The revised athlete sleep behavior questionnaire (ASBQ-2): Aligning with the latest in sleep science research								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2681	2686		10.1177/17479541251374806			DEC 2025	2025	This article introduces the revised Athlete Sleep Behavior Questionnaire (ASBQ-2), refining the original ASBQ to better assess athlete sleep behaviors. Updates were based on expert consensus and new research evidence, and address factors like late naps, caffeine use, nighttime training, sleep medication, and electronic device use. Contextual factors, including travel, household disruptions, and large pre-bed meals, were incorporated. The ASBQ-2 maintains its original scoring while merging or removing minimally impactful items, resulting in an 18-item practical assessment tool. These enhancements improve the questionnaire's ability to identify maladaptive sleep behaviors, supporting targeted interventions to optimize recovery, performance, and well-being in athletes, a group prone to sleep challenges.		[Driller, Matthew W.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Mah, Cheri D.] Stanford Univ, Dept Psychiat & Behav Sci, Stanford, CA USA; [Halson, Shona] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Halson, Shona] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Brisbane, Australia; [Driller, Matthew W.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001567481700001	35	Article; Article		
J	Holzmeister, Felix; Johannesson, Magnus								Skills vs. Luck: Decomposing Deviations from Expected Performance in European Football Leagues								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	8			953	975		10.1177/15270025251374620			DEC 2025	2025	Statistics on expected goals and expected points in football provide insights into teams' expected performance based on data about shots. Some teams exceed expectations, while others fall short of this benchmark. In this preregistered study, we employ random-effects meta-analysis to decompose the deviation from expected performance into luck and skills, using data from the top seven European football leagues for men over three seasons. Our results indicate that approximately 40% of the variation in over-/underperformance during a league season is attributable to skills, while the remaining 60% is due to luck. Over a season of 38 matches, these estimates imply that the standard deviations in points attributed to skills and luck are roughly 6 points and 7 points, respectively. We demonstrate the significance of luck through simulations, indicating that, on average, it affects league rankings by 1.8 positions and showing that luck plays a decisive role in determining end-of-season outcomes.		[Holzmeister, Felix] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Econ, Univ Str 15, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria; [Johannesson, Magnus] Stockholm Sch Econ, Dept Econ, Stockholm, Sweden; [Holzmeister, Felix] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Econ, Univ Str 15, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001566483600001	58	Article; Article		
J	Wilkie, Ethan W. C.; Tremblay, Samuel; Renaud, Philippe J.; Robbins, Shawn M.								Breaking the ice: exploring sex-based variations in the mechanics of ice hockey slap shots								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3723	3738		10.1080/14763141.2025.2557398			DEC 2 2025	2025	The objective of this study was to compare joint angles and spatiotemporal variables between male and female ice hockey players during skating slap shots. Thirty-nine collegiate players (25 men, 14 women) participated. Kinematic data were collected using a Xsens 17-inertial measurement system. Key variables included joint angles for the trunk, upper, and lower extremities, as well as temporal measures for shot execution time, and the backswing, downswing, and follow-through phases. Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) was applied to analyse sex-based differences in joint kinematics. Temporal data were compared using two-way ANOVAs. Results indicated that males exhibited longer backswing and downswing phases, contributing to longer overall shot execu- 20 tion times. Males also demonstrated greater trunk flexion and lead shoulder flexion, while females showed more lead shoulder abduction, elbow flexion, and trail wrist extension during the backswing and downswing phases. These findings highlight the influence of anatomical and strength differences on slap shot mechanics. Considering sex-specific biomechanical differences in the development of training regimens and equipment design may enhance performance and development in ice hockey for all.		[Wilkie, Ethan W. C.; Tremblay, Samuel; Renaud, Philippe J.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, McGill Ice Hockey Res Grp, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M.] McGill Univ, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil, Lethbridge Layton Mackay Rehabil Ctr, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M.] McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Wilkie, Ethan W. C.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, McGill Ice Hockey Res Grp, Montreal, PQ, Canada								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001566078100001	28	Article; Article		
J	Gosney, Sienna; MacDonald, Luke; Parsonage, Joanna; Worsey, Matthew; Keogh, Justin; Chalkley, Daniel; Meier, Breanna; Denny, April; Webster, Hannah; Minahan, Clare								Stroke characteristics are associated with sprint-paddling performance in female and male competitive surfers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	4			576	592		10.1080/14763141.2025.2549137			APR 3 2026	2026	Spatiotemporal kinematics represent a novel domain within surfboard sprint-paddling. Investigating the interplay between stroke characteristics and sprint-paddling speed can inform the development of effective training strategies for both female and male surfers. 31 competitive Australian surfers (n = 15 females, n = 16 males) performed two maximal 15-m sprint-paddling trials in a swimming pool. Split times (5-, 10-, and 15-m), stroke count, stroke rate, stroke length, and stroke phase distances (glide, pull, push, recovery) during acceleration and speed maintenance periods over the 15-m were measured. Regression analyses determined multiple spatiotemporal variables that strongly contributed to faster split times at all distances, including a sex interaction effect (r2 = 0.749, 0.791, and 0.794 respectively). For all surfers, push distance during acceleration and pull distance during speed maintenance were indicative of faster split times. For male surfers, the pull distance during the full sprint-paddle effort was indicative of faster split times. No variables were indicative of faster times for female surfers. This indicated that the development of a technique which promotes longer propulsive distances (i.e. pull and push distance) and an additional investigation of the female surfer should be encouraged to further afford optimal sprint-paddling success in both sexes.		[Gosney, Sienna; Parsonage, Joanna; Denny, April; Minahan, Clare] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Griffith Sports Sci, Gold Coast, Australia; [Gosney, Sienna; MacDonald, Luke; Parsonage, Joanna; Denny, April] Surfing Australia High Performance Ctr, Surfing Australia High Performance Program, Casuarina, Australia; [Gosney, Sienna; Denny, April] Queensland Acad Sport, Sport Performance Innovat & Knowledge Excellence S, Nathan, Australia; [Worsey, Matthew] Griffith Univ, Australian Ctr Precis Hlth & Technol, Gold Coast, Australia; [Keogh, Justin] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Chalkley, Daniel] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Banyo, Qld, Australia; [Meier, Breanna; Webster, Hannah] Univ Queensland, Human Movement & Nutr Sci, St Lucia, Australia; [Minahan, Clare] Australian Inst Sport, Female Performance & Hlth Initiat, Canberra, Australia; [Gosney, Sienna] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Griffith Sports Sci, Gold Coast, Australia; [Gosney, Sienna] Surfing Australia High Performance Ctr, Surfing Australia High Performance Program, Casuarina, Australia; [Gosney, Sienna] Queensland Acad Sport, Sport Performance Innovat & Knowledge Excellence S, Nathan, Australia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001562585200001	49	Article; Article		
J	Posmanick, Benjamin								Remembering the (College Football) Titans: Integrating College Football in the South								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	8			936	952		10.1177/15270025251372894			DEC 2025	2025	Becker's model of discrimination predicts that discriminating firms will have lower profitability due to discrimination. Therefore, a poorly-performing firm may choose to stop discriminating in an attempt to increase profitability. As predicted, using data on college football teams in the American South during the 1960s and 1970s, I find that worse teams, defined by their winning percentage or Associated Press ranking, tended to integrate sooner than better teams.		[Posmanick, Benjamin] St Bonaventure Univ, St Bonaventure, NY USA; [Posmanick, Benjamin] St Bonaventure Univ, 102D Swan Business Ctr,3261 W State Rd, St Bonaventure, NY 14778 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001561845500001	37	Article; Article		
J	Kavyani, Akram; Bourne, Matthew; Williams, Morgan; Timmins, Ryan; Peek, Kerry; Bennett, Hunter; Mastrorocco, Marco; Garrett, Joel M.								The impact of sport-related concussion history on neck strength in elite Australian rules football and rugby league athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				158	165		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.08.001			SEP 2025	2025	Objectives: To investigate whether sport-related concussion (SRC) history (including recency and total numbers) is associated with maximal isometric neck strength in elite Australian rules football (ARF) and rugby league (ARL) athletes. Design: Cross-sectional cohort study. Setting: Elite ARF and ARL environments. Participants: 451 elite players (283 males, 168 females) from ARF (n = 300) and ARL (n = 151). Main outcome measures: Maximal isometric strength of neck flexors, extensors, lateral flexors (N) and flexors/extensors (F/E) ratio; self-reported SRC history (recent [<12 months], total number). Results: Neck strength did not differ between athletes with (n = 269) and without (n = 182) a history of SRC: flexors (p = 0.80), extensors (p = 0.52), left lateral flexors (p = 0.24), right lateral flexors (p = 0.26), and the F/E ratio (p = 0.92). Athletes with a recent SRC (n = 97) had slightly higher neck extensor strength (p = 0.005), although the effect was small. No differences were observed in flexors (p = 0.577), left (p = 0.066) or right lateral flexors (p = 0.356), or F/E ratio (p = 0.204). Number of prior SRCs showed no association: flexors (p = 0.974), extensors (p = 0.406), left (p = 0.120), right lateral flexors (p = 0.258), F/E ratio (p = 0.876). Conclusions: SRC history, irrespective of its recency or total number, was not associated with impairments in maximal isometric neck strength.		[Kavyani, Akram; Bourne, Matthew; Williams, Morgan; Garrett, Joel M.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, 1 Parklands Dr, Southport, Qld 4215, Australia; [Kavyani, Akram; Bourne, Matthew; Garrett, Joel M.] Griffith Univ, Australian Ctr Precis Hlth & Technol PRECISE, Gold Coast Campus, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Williams, Morgan] VALD Performance, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Timmins, Ryan] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Timmins, Ryan] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Brisbane, Australia; [Peek, Kerry] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, Camperdown, Australia; [Peek, Kerry] Federat Internatl Football Assoc, FIFA Med, Zurich, Switzerland; [Bennett, Hunter] Univ South Australia, Alliance Res Exercise Nutr & Act ARENA, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Mastrorocco, Marco] Athletix Human & Sports Performance, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Kavyani, Akram] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, 1 Parklands Dr, Southport, Qld 4215, Australia								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001568469900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Di; Feng, Yun; Guo, XuBin; Hu, Pei								The Effects of Small Vs. Large-Sided Games on Physical Fitness Adaptations: A Randomized Controlled Design in Female Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			513	521		10.52082/jssm.2025.513			SEP 2025	2025	Research comparing the effects of different small-sided soccer game (SSG) training formats on physical adaptations remains scarce. This study aimed to compare small-format SSGs (SSGSF: 1v1 to 3v3) with large-format SSGs (SSGLF: 6v6 to 8v8) on vertical jump, change-of-direction (COD), linear speed and aerobic capacity adaptations in youth female soccer players over a sixweek training period. Using a simple randomized, parallel, controlled design, players were assigned to one of two experimental groups (SSGSF or SSGLF) or a control group. Forty-five female youth players (15.7 +/- 0.5 years old) competing at a developmental level participated in the study. All participants had a minimum of two years of playing experience and adhered to at least 90% of the intervention protocol. The experimental groups received two additional SSG sessions per week, while the control group maintained their regular training routines. Baseline and post-intervention assessments included countermovement jump height (CMJ), change of direction deficit in the 5-0-5 test (COD deficit), 30-meter linear speed, and final velocity in the 30-15 intermittent fitness test (VIFT). The SSGSF group exhibited a significantly smaller CODdeficit compared to the control group (p = 0.026; d = 1.032, moderate) after the intervention. The SSGLF group exhibited a significantly smaller 30-m sprint time compared to the control group (p = 0.044; d = 0.303, small). Both the SSGSF (p = 0.039; d = 0.880, moderate) and SSGLF (p = 0.026; d = 1.043, moderate) groups exhibited a significantly greater VIFT compared to the control group. In conclusion, the findings suggest that SSGSF may be more beneficial for improving COD ability, while SSGLF could potentially be more effective for enhancing linear sprint performance. Both formats appear to have a positive impact on aerobic performance, though the extent of their effects might be similar. Coaches might consider these differences when selecting SSG formats, as each format could contribute differently to physical performance adaptations.		[Yang, Di; Hu, Pei] Geely Univ China, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Feng, Yun] China West Normal Univ, Nanchong 637009, Peoples R China; [Guo, XuBin] Civil Aviat Flight Univ China, Guanghan, Peoples R China; [Feng, Yun] China West Normal Univ, Nanchong 637009, Peoples R China								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001521356600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Zhu, Dongming; Song, Dongmei; Huang, Zhida								Comparing Individualized vs. Non-Individualized Locomotor Profiling on High-Intensity Interval Training Adaptations in Soccer Players: A Randomized Parallel Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			503	512		10.52082/jssm.2025.503			SEP 2025	2025	This study aimed to compare the effects of individualized versus non-individualized HIIT programming, based on players' locomotor profiles, on the magnitude of adaptations in aerobic, anaerobic, and neuromuscular capacities. A randomized, controlled, parallel-group design was conducted with 46 male youth soccer players (age: 16.5 +/- 0.5 years), who were allocated into four groups: individualized HIIT (HIITind), long-interval HIIT only (HIITlong), repeated sprint training only (RST), and a control group that maintained regular training without any HIIT intervention. In the HIITind group, players were assigned to either HIITlong or RST based on their locomotor profile-endurance or speed-oriented-determined by the difference between maximal sprint speed (MSS) and maximal aerobic speed (MAS), respectively. In contrast, players in the HIITlong and RST groups followed the same protocol regardless of their profile. The training intervention lasted six weeks, with sessions conducted twice per week. Players were assessed at baseline and post-intervention for countermovement jump (CMJ), MSS over 30 meters (km/h), repeated sprint ability (RSA), and MAS, using the 5-minute running test. Significant improvements were found in all training groups compared to the control. RST showed greater improvements in CMJ (p < 0.001), MSS (p < 0.001), anaerobic speed reserve (ASR) (p < 0.001), and RSAmean (p < 0.001) compared to HIITind and HIITlong. No significant differences were observed between HIITind and HIITlong. Locomotor profiles influenced MSS (p < 0.001) and ASR (p < 0.001). These findings suggest that while both individualized and non-individualized HIIT protocols improve physical capacities, RST offers superior benefits for anaerobic and neuromuscular adaptations, whereas both HIITind and long are more effective than RST for enhancing aerobic capacity, with no significant differences observed between them.		[Zhu, Dongming; Song, Dongmei; Huang, Zhida] Nanchang Inst Sci & Technol, Coll Sports & Hlth, Nanchang 330100, Peoples R China; [Huang, Zhida] Nanchang Inst Sci & Technol, Coll Sports & Hlth, Nanchang 330100, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001515300300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Aragao-Santos, Jose Carlos; Da Silva-Grigoletto, Marzo Edir; Behm, David G.								Effects of Foam Roller, and Massage Ball with and Without Vibration on Squat Load-Velocity Profile of Resistance Trained Adults								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			485	494		10.52082/jssm.2025.485			SEP 2025	2025	Self-massage tools such as foam rollers and massage balls are widely used in warm-ups and recovery, but their effects on dynamic strength tasks like squatting remain unclear. To compare the effects of a foam roller (FR), massage ball (MB), and vibrating massage ball (MBV) versus a control condition on squat load velocity profiles and associated electromyographic (EMG) activity in resistance-trained individuals. In this crossover study, fourteen experienced resistance-trained participants performed four experimental conditions: FR, MB, MBV, and control. After an initial session for incremental load testing and protocol familiarization, each participant performed eight back squats before and after each experimental session, while movement velocity, hip vertical displacement (range of motion), and EMG of the vastus lateralis and semimembranosus were recorded. MBV produced a significant increase in quadriceps EMG during the fastest repetition (0 = 0.107; p = 0.003). In contrast, all interventions elicited a reduction in the second fastest repetition versus control (FR: 0 p = 0.002). Moreover, both FR and MBV similarly decreased third fastest repetition and mean velocities relative to control (FR: detrimental effect on performance.		[Aragao-Santos, Jose Carlos; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Aragao-Santos, Jose Carlos] Univ Estadual Santa Cruz, Grad Program Phys Educ, Ilheus, BA, Brazil; [Aragao-Santos, Jose Carlos; Da Silva-Grigoletto, Marzo Edir] Univ Fed Sergipe, Grad Program Physiol Sci, Sao Cristovao, SE, Brazil; [Aragao-Santos, Jose Carlos; Da Silva-Grigoletto, Marzo Edir] Univ Fed Sergipe, Dept Phys Educ, Grad Program Hlth Sci, Sao Cristovao, SE, Brazil; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001515258500001	76	Article; Article		
J	Xiong, ZhiFeng								Effects of Different Training Load Parameters on Physical Performance Adaptation in Soccer Players: How Complex Intensities Influence The Magnitude of Adaptations								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			475	484		10.52082/jssm.2025.475			SEP 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to examine how physiological, locomotor, and mechanical load parameters contribute to variations in aerobic, anaerobic, and neuromuscular adaptations in male soccer players. A 12-week cohort study was conducted involving 41 male under-17 soccer players (16.4 +/- 0.5 years old). All training sessions and matches were monitored using heart rate (HR) monitors, ratings of perceived exertion (RPE), and a global positioning system (GPS). The following variables were recorded daily: training impulse (TRIMP), session-RPE, total distance, high speed running (14.0 to 19.9 km/h, HSR), and very high speed running (>20 km/h, VHSR), and the number of accelerations and decelerations. Physical fitness was assessed twice-at baseline and after the 12-week intervention. The assessments included aerobic capacity via the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test (YYIRT), anaerobic capacity via the mean sprint time at Running-Based Anaerobic Sprint Test (RSAmean), muscle power using the Countermovement Jump (CMJ), and sprint performance measured in a 30-meter sprint. Simple linear regressions showed that both accumulated session-RPE (R-2 = 0.446, beta = 0.668, p < 0.001) and accumulated TRIMP (R-2 = 0.417, beta = 0.646, p < 0.001) were significant positive predictors of YYIRT delta, although explain less than half of variance. A multiple regression analysis revealed that accumulated VHSR significantly predicted RSAmean delta, indicating that higher VHSR values are associated with smaller and improved RSAmean (B =-0.003, p = 0.002), while HSR was not a significant predictor (p = 0.291). These findings suggest that internal load measures (session-RPE, TRIMP) are more strongly associated with aerobic adaptations, while specific external load metrics (e.g., VHSR) better explain RSA changes, highlighting the importance of modifying load monitoring strategies to the specific physiological adaptations targeted. Incorporating individualized load management based on these measures may help maximize performance improvements in practical contexts.		[Xiong, ZhiFeng] Geely Univ China, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Chengdu 641423, Peoples R China; [Xiong, ZhiFeng] Geely Univ China, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Chengdu 641423, Peoples R China								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001514245600001	35	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Ying; Liu, Jing; Yang, Liuxi; Zheng, Bosong								Can Maturation Level Influence Long-Term Physiological and Physical Adaptations in Youth Female Soccer Players Exposed to Combined Sided Games and HIIT? A Comparison Across Maturation Statuses								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			634	644		10.52082/jssm.2025.634			SEP 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to assess the effects of a 6-week high-intensity interval training combined with small-sided games (HIIT&SSG) program on maximal strength, sprint performance, and aerobic capacity in female athletes and to examine how these effects vary across different stages of maturity (pre-, mid-, and post-peak height velocity [PHV]). Specifically, we sought to determine whether the improvements in performance outcomes were consistent across maturity groups or if the training effects differed based on the athletes' maturity status. Fifty-four female soccer players (aged 9-16 years) were categorized into pre-PHV, mid-PHV, and post-PHV maturity groups. Participants were randomly assigned to either an HIIT&SSG group (n = 27) or a control group (n = 27). The HIIT&SSG group performed two additional training sessions per week, focusing on 2v2 small-sided games and individualized high-intensity runs at 85% of their final velocity during the 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test (VIFT). Control continued their regular training routines. Pre-and post-intervention assessments included isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP) for maximal strength, 30-meter sprint time, and VIFT for aerobic capacity. Pre-and post-intervention assessments included isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP) for maximal strength, 30-meter sprint time, and VIFT for aerobic capacity. The HIIT&SSG group demonstrated large effect sizes for IMTP (eta p2 = 0.996), 30-m sprint time (eta p2 = 0.991), and VIFT (eta p2 = 0.878), with substantial improvements in strength and aerobic capacity in mid-and post-PHV athletes. For IMTP, significant group differences were observed in mid-PHV (p = 0.021) and post-PHV athletes (p < 0.001). Post-PHV athletes also showed significantly faster 30-meter sprint times post-intervention (p < 0.001). VIFT improvements were significant across all maturity stages (Pre-PHV: p = 0.045; Mid-PHV: p < 0.001; Post-PHV: p < 0.001). Effect sizes for group differences ranged from moderate to large (eta p2 = 0.540 to eta p2 = 0.928). HIIT&SSG program is effective in enhancing maximal strength, sprint performance, and aerobic capacity, with particularly benefits for mid-and post-PHV athletes. However, the improvements in sprint performance were primarily observed in post-PHV athletes, which may limit the generalizability of these effects to all maturity stages.		[Zhou, Ying] Sichuan Normal Univ, Phys Educ, Chengdu 610101, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Liu, Jing] Guizhou Univ Engn Sci, Bijie 551700, Guizhou, Peoples R China; [Yang, Liuxi] Civil Aviat Flight Univ China, Civil Aviat Secur Coll, Guanghan 618300, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Bosong] East China Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Shanghai 200241, Peoples R China; [Liu, Jing] Guizhou Univ Engn Sci, Bijie 551700, Guizhou, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001560034200016	31	Article; Article		
J	Abe, Takashi; Dankel, Scott J.; Kohmura, Yoshimitsu; Loenneke, Jeremy P.; Suzuki, Koya								Longitudinal Stability of The Handgrip Strength Measurements in University Students								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			707	711		10.52082/jssm.2025.707			SEP 2025	2025	Handgrip strength, a component of physical fitness tests and a biomarker of future health, is typically measured annually. However, no studies have looked at the consistency of these measurements over time. We investigated the reliability of handgrip strength measurements among university students who take the test annually. Our data included 3649 students (2769 males and 880 females) who were tested annually over their four years in university. Results showed a significant difference in absolute errors across the three test-retest intervals (p < 0.001). Specifically, the 1-year longitudinal reproducibility was significantly better than the reproducibility at 2-years and 3-years. There were no differences in longitudinal reproducibility between the 2-year and 3year time points (p = 0.490). The minimal difference values at the 1-year, 2-year, and 3-year time points were 7.70, 8.33, and 8.35 kg, respectively. When comparing the percentage of coefficient variation (%CV) values, the reliability was better in males than in females (p = 0.025). The difference in the %CV between sexes was 0.27 (95% CI: 0.03-0.52) %. When examining the results using absolute error, the results were reversed, with females having lower absolute error values than males (p < 0.001). The reliability values were better for the digital handgrip device as compared to the analog device (p < 0.001). These findings can help evaluate the consistency of handgrip strength measurements made annually. When measured annually in young adults, a change of at least approximately 20% (calculated using %MD in both sexes) in the measured values is necessary to indicate a change confidently.		[Abe, Takashi; Kohmura, Yoshimitsu; Suzuki, Koya] Juntendo Univ, Inst Hlth & Sports Sci & Med, 1-1 Hirakagakuendai, Inzai, Chiba 2701695, Japan; [Abe, Takashi] Inst Trainol, Div Childrens Hlth & Exercise Res, Fukuoka, Japan; [Dankel, Scott J.] Rowan Univ, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Glassboro, NJ USA; [Kohmura, Yoshimitsu; Suzuki, Koya] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Chiba, Japan; [Loenneke, Jeremy P.] Univ Mississippi, Kevser Ermin Appl Physiol Lab, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Oxford, MS USA; [Abe, Takashi] Juntendo Univ, Inst Hlth & Sports Sci & Med, 1-1 Hirakagakuendai, Inzai, Chiba 2701695, Japan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001553901700001	18	Article; Article		
J	Yu, Zhendong; Tang, Songxing; Hu, Min; Peng, Jianwei; Fan, Qihong; Leng, Lu; Gao, Dongdong; Guo, Jinghui; Yu, Haijie; Huang, Junhao								Aquatic High-Intensity Interval Training Improves Vascular Function, Whereas Aquatic Moderate-Intensity Continuous Training Lowers Resting Heart Rate in Overweight and Obese Young Adults: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			666	675		10.52082/jssm.2025.666			SEP 2025	2025	We investigated the effects of 8-week aquatic moderate-intensity continuous training (aMICT) and aquatic high-intensity interval training (aHIIT) on body composition, aerobic fitness, arterial stiffness, and endothelial function in overweight and obese young adults (OOYA). Sixty-one OOYA were randomly assigned to aHIIT, aMICT, or Control group. aHIIT group underwent twelve 30-second exercise bouts with the intensity of 85-95% HRmax, with a 60-second rest between each bout. aMICT group underwent an uninterrupted exercise with the intensity of 70-75% HRmax for 30 minutes. Endothelial function was assessed using brachial artery flow-mediated dilation (FMD) and arterial stiffness was evaluated through pulse wave velocity (PWV) and ankle-brachial index (ABI). Results revealed that aHIIT but not aMICT decreased ABI and increased FMD and skeletal muscle mass, whereas only aMICT decreased resting heart rate. A positive correlation was found between the change in weight with the change in FMD (r = 0.527, p = 0.020) after aHIIT. Following subgroup analysis, a positive correlation between change in weight and change in FMD was also found in participants with increased skeletal muscle mass in aHIIT group (r = 0.665, p = 0.002). Moreover, the change in VO2max was positively correlated with the change in FMD (r = 0.568, p < 0.001). In conclusion, both aHIIT and aMICT can raise aerobic capacity among OOYA. Importantly, aHIIT offers a time-efficient option to improve vascular function in OOYA, whereas aMICT may be preferable when the primary goal is to lower resting heart rate.		[Yu, Zhendong; Hu, Min; Peng, Jianwei; Fan, Qihong; Gao, Dongdong; Huang, Junhao] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Guangdong Prov Key Lab Phys Act & Hlth Promot, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Tang, Songxing; Yu, Haijie] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, ImFINE Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Leng, Lu] Jinan Univ, Coll Foreign Languages, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Guo, Jinghui] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Sch Med, Shenzhen, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Huang, Junhao] Macau Univ Sci & Technol, Nehers Biophys Lab Innovat Drug Discovery, State Key Lab Qual Res Chinese Med, Macau, Peoples R China; [Huang, Junhao] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sci Res Ctr, 1268 Middle Guangzhou Ave, Guangzhou 510500, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001553015700001	52	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Jay; Zhang, Xiuli; Kong, Zhaowei								Quantifying Running Economy in Amateur Runners: Evaluating VO<sub>2</sub> and Energy Cost with Model-based Normalization								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			684	695		10.52082/jssm.2025.684			SEP 2025	2025	Submaximal oxygen uptake (VO2sub) scaled by ratio is commonly used to evaluate running economy (RE) to reflect metabolic consumption at a given submaximal-intensity velocity. However, method is questionable due to its neglect of substrate-related sues and the inherent mathematical discrepancies in ratio scaling. This study aimed to investigate the validity of ratio-scaled VO as a measure of RE by comparing it with allometric-scaled energy cost (Ec, kcal/kgb/min). Sixty-nine recreationally active college students underwent VO2max tests and discontinuous submaximal running assessments at three %VO2max intensities. A 1000-meter test assessed running performance. One-way repeated-measures ANOVA compared changes in VO2sub or Ec with increasing running intensities. Regression analysis explored methods for metabolic data standardization. Pearson correlation coefficient evaluated the effectiveness of standardization and the correlations tween sports performance and RE scaled by different measures. Magnitude-based inferences were used to assess sex differences and probabilities of RE at each running intensity. Both VO2sub Ec significantly increased with increasing intensities, suggesting that VO2sub is a valid quantification of RE. Allometric scaling more suitable than ratio scaling for removing the influence body weight on both Ec and VO2sub, with females showing better RE. Allometric-scaled Ec was sensitive in detecting correlations with performance, strongest at 65% VO2max. While VO2sub valid quantification of RE, allometric scaling, rather than ratio scaling, should be used to normalize the RE quantification before performing reliable interindividual comparisons. The 2/3 law be considered as the exponent b value for body weight. Additionally, 65%VO2max intensity is recommended as the submaximal testing intensity in the RE test. Nonetheless, more studies with diverse samples are needed to confirm the validity.		[Lee, Jay; Kong, Zhaowei] Univ Macau, Fac Educ, Macau, Peoples R China; [Lee, Jay; Zhang, Xiuli] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Kong, Zhaowei] Univ Macau, Fac Educ, Macau, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Xiuli] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001551742900001	44	Article; Article		
J	Palmsten, Allison; Niemuth, Elizabeth; Gunderson, Travis C.; Aberman, Rick; Sikorski, Jonathon; Benitez, Gabriela Vazquez; Chmielewski, Terese L.								Examination of risk appraisal during the return to sport following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				80	86		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.07.013inrevised			SEP 2025	2025	Objectives: To describe features of risk appraisal after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Study design: Secondary analysis. Methods: 161 patients with ACLR, cleared to initiate return to sport, were tested (initial and follow-up 6 weeks later). Patient characteristics, ACL-Return to Sport after Injury (ACL-RSI) score and limb symmetry index (LSI) on 4 single-leg hop tests were collected. ACL-RSI confidence domain and scores on risk appraisal items (#2: reinjure knee, #10: surgery/rehabilitation; both with respect to playing sports) were calculated. Risk appraisal items were analyzed for: change over time using effect sizes; correlations with age, sex, confidence domain score, and hop LSIs; and differences based on meeting readiness-for-sport criteria (ACL-RSI >= 70, hop LSIs >= 90 %). Results: Risk appraisal item scores increased at follow-up (S = 0.22, 0.26); higher scores were correlated with younger age (rho = -0.25, -0.39), higher confidence domain score (rho = 0.67, 0.60) and higher timed hop LSI (rho = 0.24, 0.27). Patients meeting ACL-RSI/hop LSI or ACL-RSI criteria had significantly higher risk appraisal item scores than those meeting hop LSI or no criteria (p < 0.001). Conclusions: Risk appraisal may evolve following ACLR. Patients with high confidence, and those exhibiting psychological readiness alone or in combination with physical readiness, tend to perceive lower risk with returning to sport.		[Palmsten, Allison; Gunderson, Travis C.; Sikorski, Jonathon; Chmielewski, Terese L.] TRIA Orthoped Ctr, 8100 Northland Dr, Bloomington, MN 55431 USA; [Niemuth, Elizabeth] TRIA Orthoped Ctr, Woodbury, MN 55125 USA; [Gunderson, Travis C.] Concordia Univ, Phys Therapy Program, St Paul, MN 55104 USA; [Aberman, Rick] Dr Rick Aberman Consulting, Minnetonka, MN 55305 USA; [Benitez, Gabriela Vazquez] HealthPartners Inst, Bloomington, MN 55425 USA; [Chmielewski, Terese L.] Univ Minnesota, Med Sch, Dept Family Med & Community Hlth, Rehabil Sci Grad Program, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Palmsten, Allison] TRIA Orthoped Ctr, 8100 Northland Dr, Bloomington, MN 55431 USA								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001609089600001	55	Article; Article		
J	Xu, Weiqiang; Trybulski, Robert; Luo, Le; Trybek, Grzegorz; Moska, Waldemar; Liu, Yufei; Clemente, Filipe Manuel								Effects of Small-Sided Games and High-Intensity Interval Training on The Rating of Perceived Exertion in Soccer Players Across Competitive Levels: Controlling for Percentage of Heart Rate Reserve								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			603	612		10.52082/jssm.2025.603			SEP 2025	2025	This study investigated perceived exertion (RPE) differences among soccer players at two competitive levels-Tier 2 (trained) and Tier 3 (highly trained)-during small-sided games (SSGs) and high-intensity interval training (HIIT), while controlling for internal physiological load using percentage of heart rate reserve (%HRreserve). Seventy-seven male university players from the China University Football Association participated (Tier 2: n = 37; Tier 3: n = 40). Each player underwent a fitness assessment to determine HRmax and HRrest, followed by four randomized training sessions: 5v5 SSGs, 1v1 SSGs, long HIIT, and short HIIT. Heart rate was continuously monitored, and players reported RPE using the Borg CR10 scale immediately post-session. A linear mixed-effects model was used, with competitive level and training format as fixed effects, and %HRreserve included as a statistical covariate. The analysis revealed a significant interaction between training format and competitive level (F(3, 224.761) = 3.20, p = .024), indicating that the influence of training format on RPE varied by competitive level. A significant main effect of training format was also found (F(3, 234.484) = 11.24, p < .001). Specifically, Tier 3 players reported higher RPE during short HIIT than Tier 2 players (p = .002). Both groups reported lower RPE during 5v5 SSGs compared to 1v1 SSGs and HIIT formats (all p <= .003). These findings show that training format influences RPE in a format-and tier-specific manner, even when accounting for internal physiological load. For coaches and sports scientists, larger-sided SSGs may be useful to reduce perceived exertion while maintaining cardiovascular demand. Future research should include elite players and assess psychological and physiological mediators to better understand the complex drivers of perceived effort.		[Xu, Weiqiang; Trybek, Grzegorz; Moska, Waldemar; Liu, Yufei; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept Wojciech Korfanty, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Luo, Le] Xiangnan Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Chenzhou 423000, Peoples R China; [Trybek, Grzegorz] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Interdisciplinary Dent, PL-70111 Szczecin, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001536537900001	53	Article; Article		
J	Chan, Shih-Hsuan; Chiang, Tsung-Lin; Lin, Yu-Chin; Chen, Chu; Hsu, Li-Sun; Wang, Hsuan-Yun; Wu, Huey-June								Muscle Oxygen Saturation Dynamics During Back Squat Exercise: The Influence of Intensity and Velocity Loss on Deoxygenation and Reoxygenation								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			555	564		10.52082/jssm.2025.555			SEP 2025	2025	Resistance training plays a key role in enhancing muscular performance; however, the effects of different combinations of loading intensity and velocity loss (VL) thresholds on muscle oxygen saturation (SmO2) dynamics during exercise remain insufficiently understood. This study aimed to investigate the influence of intensity (60% vs. 80% one-repetition maximum [1RM]) and VL (20% vs. 40%) on SmO2 responses during the back squat exercise. Eighteen resistance- trained males (age: 20.06 +/- 1.63 years; height: 176.78 +/- 6.45 cm; body mass: 70.26 +/- 9.56 kg) performed four back squat protocols - 60%1RM-VL20% (60 - 20), 60%1RM-VL40% (60 - 40), 80%1RM-VL20% (80 - 20), and 80%1RM-VL40% (80 - 40) - using a repeated-measures, counter-balanced design. Each protocol comprised three sets with 5-minute inter-set rest periods. SmO2 of the vastus lateralis was continuously monitored to determine changes in its magnitude and slope during exercise and recovery phases. Results revealed no significant differences were observed in the magnitude of SmO2 decline across conditions, with values ranging from 47.28% to 57.67% across all sets (p > .05). The SmO2 decline slope was significantly steeper (more negative) in the 80-20 condition (-1.71 to -2.04 %.s(-1)) compared to both 60-20 (-0.80 to -1.13 %.s(-1)) and 60-40 (-0.53 to -1.00 %.s(-1)) across all sets (p < .001). No significant differences were observed in SmO2 recovery slope during rest (range: 0.36 - 0.61 %.s(-1); p > .05). The present study demonstrated that combining 60% 1RM with a 40% VL% threshold elicited the slowest SmO2 decline rate, potentially delaying fatigue onset and allowing greater repetition volume. Although both training intensity and velocity loss thresholds influenced muscle oxygenation dynamics, the rate of SmO2 desaturation was particularly sensitive to changes in VL% thresholds under the 80% 1RM. These findings underscore the importance of integrating training intensity, VL% magnitude, and oxygenation dynamics when designing individualized resistance training protocols.		[Chan, Shih-Hsuan; Chiang, Tsung-Lin; Lin, Yu-Chin; Hsu, Li-Sun; Wu, Huey-June] Chinese Culture Univ, Grad Inst Sport Coaching Sci, 55 Hwa Kang Rd, Taipei 11114, Taiwan; [Chen, Chu] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, 162 HePing East Rd Sect 1, Taipei, Taiwan; Shih Hsin Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Lane 17,Sect 1, Taipei 116, Taiwan; [Wu, Huey-June] Chinese Culture Univ, Grad Inst Sport Coaching Sci, 55 Hwa Kang Rd, Taipei 11114, Taiwan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001527975600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Chiang, Yi-Chien; Chiang, Chieh-Ying; Suchomel, Timothy J.								Differences in Mechanical Output between One Repetition Maximum- and Body Mass-Based Load Determination in The Behind-Neck Push Jerk								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			626	633		10.52082/jssm.2025.626			SEP 2025	2025	Body mass (BM) can be used to prescribe loads for some weightlifting derivatives, as an alternative to the one-repetition maximum (1RM). However, the effectiveness of this method has not been investigated in weightlifting overhead pressing derivatives. The primary aim of the study was to investigate the effect of loads determined with percentages of 1RM and BM on kinetic and kinematic characteristics in the behind-neck push jerk (BNPJ). Sixteen recreational male athletes were recruited and performed 3 repetitions of the BNPJ from 40% to 80% of their 1RM and BM, respectively. Two force plates were used to collect kinematic (peak velocity, mean velocity, phase time) and kinetic variables (peak force, mean force, peak power, mean power, and impulse) in the concentric phase. A two-way repeated measures analysis of variance assessed the interaction and the main effect (approaches and intensities) on the dependent variables. The level of significance was set at p <= 0.05. No significant interactions existed between the approaches and intensities in all variables. The main effect approach was not significant in all the kinematic variables, but significant intensity main effects were found. Significant approach and intensity main effects were found in all kinetic variables. All kinetic variables were greater in the 1RM-based approach compared to the BM-based approach. BM can serve as a practical alternative to 1RM for load prescription in the BNPJ loading may be more suitable for maximizing kinetic outputs.		[Chiang, Yi-Chien] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan City, Taiwan; [Chiang, Chieh-Ying] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Sports Training Sci Combats, Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan City 33301, Taiwan; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Univ Pittsburgh, Dept Sports Med & Nutr, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Chiang, Chieh-Ying] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Sports Training Sci Combats, Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan City 33301, Taiwan								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001535092900001	36	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Ana Filipa; Trybulski, Robert; Trybek, Grzegorz; Moska, Waldemar; Castro, Henrique; Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas								Comparing Adapted Small-Sided Team Sports and Aerobic Exercise with or without Cognitive Games: Effects on Fitness and Cognition in Older Men								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			589	602		10.52082/jssm.2025.589			SEP 2025	2025	This study investigated the effects of 12-week interventions on cognitive and physical fitness adaptations in older men with cognitive decline. We employed a randomized, parallel, and controlled design with five groups: team sports (TS), team sports with cognitive training (TS+C), aerobic exercise (A), aerobic exercise with cognitive training (A+C), and a control group (Control). Fifty older male volunteers (mean age: 69.3 +/- 3.2 years) were included in the analysis. Interventions consisted of two 60-minute sessions per week for 12 weeks. Both TS and A groups participated in structured physical training, with TS involving 5v5 handball and football games, and A focusing on circuit training exercises. The TS+C and A+C groups additionally incorporated 20-minute cognitive training sessions using a software, targeting memory, attention, and executive functions. The control group maintained their usual routines. Cognitive function was evaluated using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA). Physical fitness was assessed through six tests of the Senior Fitness Test. Results revealed significant post-intervention differences in MoCA (p < 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.622), chair stand (p = 0.038, eta p(2) = 0.189), up and go (p < 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.516), and 6-minute walk test (p = 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.333) scores among groups. Post hoc analysis showed that TS, TS+C, A, and A+C groups significantly improved in MoCA, chair stand, up and go, and 6-minute walk test compared to the control group (p < 0.05). No significant differences were observed for arm curl, sit and reach, or back scratch tests. Our findings suggest that 12-week interventions incorporating team sports or aerobic exercise, with or without cognitive training, can improve cognitive function and physical fitness in older men with cognitive decline, and may contribute to strategies aimed at promoting healthy aging.		[Silva, Ana Filipa] Inst Politecn Viana Do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Silva, Ana Filipa] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Trybulski, Robert] Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept Wojciech Korfanty, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Interdisciplinary Dent, PL-70111 Szczecin, Poland; [Trybek, Grzegorz] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sports Med & Hlth, Gdansk, Poland; [Moska, Waldemar] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Castro, Henrique] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Grp Estudos & Pesquisas Educ Fis & Esportes, Cuiaba, Brazil; [Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Silva, Ana Filipa] Inst Politecn Viana Do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Silva, Ana Filipa] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001527974500001	52	Article; Article		
J	de Haan, Michel; van der Zwaard, Stephan; Sanders, Jurrit; Beek, Peter J.; Jaspers, Richard T.								Beyond Playing Positions: Categorizing Soccer Players Based on Match-Specific Running Performance Using Machine Learning								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	3			565	577		10.52082/jssm.2025.565			SEP 2025	2025	Soccer players are frequently categorized by playing positions, both in the scientific literature and in practice. However, the utility of this approach in evaluating physical match performance and optimizing physical training programs remains unclear. This study compares the effectiveness of categorizing soccer players by their playing position versus using unsupervised machine learning based on match-specific running performance. Matchspecific running data were collected from 40 young elite male soccer players over two seasons. Thirty-one of these players completed a 20-meter sprint test and a maximal incremental treadmill test to measure maximal oxygen uptake. Players were categorized both by playing position and by subgroups derived through k-means clustering based on match-specific running performance. Differences in sprint capacity, endurance capacity, and matchspecific running performance were compared between and within playing positions, as well as between and within clusters. The two categorization methods were further compared for variance within subgroups and standardized differences between subgroups for total distance (TD), low-intensity running (LIR), moderate-intensity running (MIR), high-intensity running (HIR), and sprint distance during matches. Match-specific running performance differed between playing positions, despite notable interindividual differences in running intensities within playing positions. Clustering based on match-specific running performance revealed less variance within groups (TD: P = 0.049, LIR: P = 0.032, HIR: P = 0.033) and larger standardized differences between groups (LIR: P = 0.037, MIR: P = 0.041, HIR: P = 0.035, Sprint: P = 0.018) compared to grouping by playing position. Moreover, 20-meter sprint speed differed between the sprint and high intensity endurance clusters (25.22 vs 23.75 km/h, P = 0.012), but not between playing positions. Using unsupervised machine learning to categorize soccer players improves the identification of player groups with similar match-specific running performance, thereby supporting performance evaluation and contributing to the optimization of physical training.		[de Haan, Michel; van der Zwaard, Stephan; Beek, Peter J.; Jaspers, Richard T.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van der Zwaard, Stephan] Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Univ Med Ctr, Dept Cardiol, Locat AMC, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Sanders, Jurrit] PSV Eindhoven, Eindhoven, Netherlands; [Jaspers, Richard T.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Boelelaan 1108, NL-1081 HZ Amsterdam, Netherlands								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001526795500001	59	Article; Article		
J	Hymes, Samuel C.; Sacko, Ryan S.; Duncan, Grace; Bott, Tim								Is a Cup Enough? Levels of Energy Expenditure During Speed Stacking								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			86	94		10.1080/02701367.2025.2549064			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study evaluated whether Speed Stacking elicits sufficient physiological intensity to meet moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) thresholds in youth, using portable indirect calorimetry and accelerometry. Fifty-four participants (Mage = 14.01 +/- 5.48 years; 46.3% female) completed four randomized activity conditions: Rest, Speed Stacking, Running, and Speed Stack + Run, each lasting five minutes. Participants wore a COSMED K5 metabolic system, hip and wrist ActiGraph GT3X+ accelerometers, and a heart rate monitor. Energy expenditure (METs), accelerometer counts, perceived exertion, and fun were analyzed using repeated measures ANOVAs and Cohen's Kappa for method agreement. In both prepubescent and pubescent groups, Speed Stacking alone did not meet the specific MET thresholds for MVPA. However, the hybrid Stack + Run condition significantly increased METs (up to 5.1 +/- 1.2 in prepubescents). Cohen's Kappa revealed poor agreement between MET-based and accelerometer-based intensity categorical classifications across all conditions. Participants, especially younger children, reported Speed Stacking as fun but minimally effortful. Speed Stacking alone fails to meet key pedagogical criteria for physical education, particularly those related to maximizing activity time and MVPA engagement. Given the limited time available in PE settings, alternative activities with higher energy expenditure may offer a more efficient use of instructional time. However, when integrated with movement-based tasks, Speed Stacking can be adapted to better support physical and educational outcomes.		[Hymes, Samuel C.; Sacko, Ryan S.; Duncan, Grace; Bott, Tim] The Citadel, Hlth & Human Performance, 171 Moultrie St, Charleston, SC 29409 USA; [Sacko, Ryan S.] The Citadel, Hlth & Human Performance, 171 Moultrie St, Charleston, SC 29409 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001560327600001	31	Article; Article		
J	McCandless, Cabel J.; Dames, Kevin D.; Aiken, Christopher A.								Postural stability in trail and cross-country runners: Time-to-boundary metrics and training insights								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			437	443		10.1177/17479541251370356			FEB 2026	2026	Trail and cross-country runners frequently train on uneven and unpredictable terrain, elevating their risk of ankle injury. Time to Boundary (TtB) is a measure of postural stability that has emerged as a valuable indicator of lower limb injury risk, with lower values reflecting compromised stability. This study examined postural control across three groups: amateur trail runners (TR), NCAA Division I cross-country runners (CCR), and non-runner controls (NRC). Participants completed single-leg quiet stance trials on their dominant leg under two conditions: eyes open and eyes closed. Center of pressure data from a force platform were used to calculate TtB mean, standard deviation, and minimum values in both the anteroposterior (AP) and mediolateral (ML) directions. A 2 (condition) x 3 (group) repeated-measures ANOVA (with Sidak correction) revealed no significant interaction effects, but several main effects for group. TR demonstrated lower ML variability than both CCR and NRC (p' < .001), and lower AP variability than CCR (p < .05). CCR exhibited a greater AP TtB mean than NRC (p < .05), while TR showed the highest AP TtB minimum values (p < .05). These results suggest that trail runners have greater postural control, possibly reflecting adaptations to the proprioceptive and neuromuscular demands of off-road training. Future research should identify specific environmental or training variables that drive these adaptations, to better inform evidence-based training strategies.		[McCandless, Cabel J.; Aiken, Christopher A.] New Mexico State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Las Cruces, NM USA; [McCandless, Cabel J.] Towson Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Towson, MD USA; [Dames, Kevin D.] SUNY Coll Cortland, Kinesiol Dept, Cortland, NY USA; [Aiken, Christopher A.] New Mexico State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, MSC 3M,POB 30001, Las Cruces, NM 88003 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001558188900001	46	Article; Article		
J	Fujii, Y.; Alam, A. K. M. B.								Cycling time trial strategies considering peak power-time curve and acceleration								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1572	1580		10.1177/17479541251364404			JUN 2026	2026	The constant power pacing strategy is typically recommended for long, flat, and windless cycling time trial races. For courses with wind or hills, a variable power pacing strategy is often suggested-one that increases power during headwind or uphill sections and decreases it during tailwind or downhill sections. We analyzed 10 km and 1 km courses under various conditions, including flat and windless, windy, and hilly scenarios, and compared different pacing strategies by considering peak power-time curves and acceleration. For 10 km courses, a fast-start strategy followed by constant power was found to be effective. In contrast, the variable power pacing strategy showed no significant advantage and even worsened finish times when the course started with a downhill followed by an uphill section. For 1 km courses, the variable power pacing strategy improved performance except for the tailwind-then-headwind scenario, where it actually worsened the finish time. In contrast to 10 km courses, the downhill-then-uphill case saw a marked improvement with the variable power pacing approach.		[Fujii, Y.] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Engn, N13W8, Sapporo, Japan; [Alam, A. K. M. B.] Mil Inst Sci & Technol MIST, Dept Petr & Min Engn, Dhaka, Bangladesh; [Fujii, Y.] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Engn, N13W8, Sapporo, Japan								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001555848800001	11	Article; Article		
J	Kotani, Yuhei; Sato, Yusuke; Shirasaka, Seiko								Coaching for psychological safety: A socio-ecological scoping review of antecedents in competitive sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2693	2708		10.1177/17479541251368660			DEC 2025	2025	This scoping review organizes the antecedent factors of psychological safety in competitive sports based on the framework of the socio-ecological model, identifies research gaps, and provides direction for future research to inform coaching practice. We conducted a search using eight databases-SPORTDiscus, Sports Medicine & Education, IndexPSYCInfo, PSYCArticle, SCOPUS, Academic Search Premier, Medline, and Web of Science-and nine articles met the inclusion criteria. Consequently, 13 antecedent factors were identified. Of the five layers in the socio-ecological model, no antecedent factors were found in the Sport culture and policy layer. However, we found one factor in environmental factors, two in organizational factors and program design, eight in interpersonal factors, and two in intrapersonal factors. This study systematically classified the antecedents of psychological safety in competitive sports and showed areas yet to be clarified and perspectives requiring further research. Future studies should explore these areas empirically and develop evidence-based intervention methods to improve psychological safety.		[Kotani, Yuhei; Sato, Yusuke; Shirasaka, Seiko] Syst Design & Management, Keio, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Kotani, Yuhei] Syst Design & Management, Keio, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001555849600001	55	Article; Article		
J	Dos Santos, Manuel Alonso; Mohammadi, Sardar; Gonzalez, Beicy Viviana Acosta; Berenguer, Sergio Aguado								Streaming alternative sports formats through social media and their influence on sponsorship: Chilean perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP											10.1108/IJSMS-02-2025-0067				2025	PurposeThis study aims to examine the effectiveness of sponsorship in terms of attitude and purchase intention at an unofficial event broadcast (Kings League) through streaming, considering attitude toward the streaming, streamer loyalty, subjective norms, congruence sponsor-event, congruence with the streaming platform and involvement.Design/methodology/approachA self-administered survey of 460 participants in Chile was conducted via Qualtrics. Partial least squares-structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) was employed to examine the validity and reliability of the scales and to test the structural model.FindingsFan loyalty to streamer plays a crucial role in shaping positive attitudes toward sponsors in non-traditional sports formats, such as the Kings League. Findings confirm that attitudes toward the event and streaming positively influence attitudes toward the sponsor, aligning with the image transfer theory. Congruence with streaming platform significantly impacts brand perception, while congruence event/sponsor does not. Subjective norms toward streaming shape attitudes toward the event. Ultimately, attitude toward the sponsor strongly predicts purchase intention, emphasizing the importance of brand alignment with content creators and event formats for effective sponsorship strategies.Practical implicationsManagers should integrate brands naturally into the narrative of content creators, encourage audience interaction and use non-intrusive advertising formats to enhance sponsor perception. Specifically for the Chilean market, managers should consider the growing consumption of streamed events and the strong presence of digital communities in the country. Additionally, the high penetration of platforms like Twitch and YouTube in the country enables the design of interactive strategies, such as exclusive promotions or immersive experiences, to strengthen the relationship between the audience and brands. Adapting strategies to the Chilean digital context will ensure greater sponsorship impact.Originality/valueThis manuscript provides a novel perspective by analyzing the effectiveness of sponsorship in digital sports events, exploring for the first time the influence of streaming engagement on sponsor perception and the impact of congruence between the streaming platforms on sponsorship effectiveness.		[Dos Santos, Manuel Alonso; Gonzalez, Beicy Viviana Acosta] Univ Granada, Dept Mkt & Market Res, Granada, Spain; [Dos Santos, Manuel Alonso; Gonzalez, Beicy Viviana Acosta] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Adm Dept, Concepcion, Chile; [Mohammadi, Sardar] Univ Kurdistan, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Sanandaj, Iran; [Berenguer, Sergio Aguado] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Dos Santos, Manuel Alonso] Univ Granada, Dept Mkt & Market Res, Granada, Spain; [Dos Santos, Manuel Alonso] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Adm Dept, Concepcion, Chile								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001555578100001	107	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lubiak, Sean M.; Riddell, Saida; Wagner, Holliston; May, Jordan; Antunes, Vitoria A.; Tiralla, Gillian; Thompson, Baron K.; Oviedo, Guillermo R.; Tamulevicius, Nauris								Indices of Arterial Stiffness and Hemodynamic Responses Following Repeated Cycling Sprints at Varying Intensities Among Recreationally Active Females								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			77	85		10.1080/02701367.2025.2546002			JAN 2 2026	2026	We examined indices of arterial stiffness (AS) and hemodynamic responses pre- and post-repeated cycling sprints at varying intensities. Twenty recreationally active females were randomized to complete three, 10-sec all-out cycling sprints with 2 min of interbout rest performed against 7.5% body weight (7.5%BW) or 10% body weight (10%BW). Separate two-way, 2 (Intensity [7.5%BW and 10%BW]) x 2 (Time [Pre and Post]) Bayesian mixed factorial ANOVA models were constructed to determine the probability of an effect. Carotid femoral pulse wave velocity (cf-PWV; m/s-1) and augmentation index (Aix; %) were not different between groups or across time (mean difference from pretest-posttest [Meandiff] = 0.14 +/- 0.01 m/s-1 and Meandiff = 2.96 +/- -0.23%, respectively). Heart rate (HR) increased across time (Meandiff = -23 +/- -1.84 bpm) but was similar between groups. Similarly, brachial and central systolic blood pressure (BSBP and CSBP) increased across time (Meandiff = -16.2 +/- -0.69 mmHg and Meandiff = -8.85 +/- 0.09 mmHg, respectively) but was similar between groups. Brachial and central diastolic blood pressure (BDBP and CDBP) remained unaffected and were similar between groups and across time. Repeated cycling sprints at 7.5%BW and 10%BW induced similar AS and hemodynamic responses. These findings support the use of short, all-out sprints as a time-efficient exercise strategy that does not acutely compromise vascular function.		[Lubiak, Sean M.; Riddell, Saida; Wagner, Holliston; May, Jordan; Antunes, Vitoria A.; Tiralla, Gillian; Thompson, Baron K.; Tamulevicius, Nauris] Univ Tampa, Tampa, FL USA; [Lubiak, Sean M.] Univ Cent Florida, Orlando, FL USA; [Riddell, Saida] North West Univ, Mafikeng, South Africa; [Tiralla, Gillian] East Carolina Univ, Greenville, NC USA; [Thompson, Baron K.] Univ S Alabama, Mobile, AL USA; [Oviedo, Guillermo R.] Mississippi State Univ, Mississippi State, MS USA; [Lubiak, Sean M.] Univ Cent Florida, Sch Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Div Kinesiol, 12494 Univ Blvd, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001555240800001	44	Article; Article		
J	Petushek, Erich; Harkey, Matthew S.; Santiago, Kim; Stamm, Alexander; Baez, Shelby; Diekfuss, Jed A.; Myer, Gregory D.; Kuenze, Christopher								Biopsychosocial profiles following ACL reconstruction: A latent class analysis of barriers to return-to-activity								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				144	150		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.08.004			SEP 2025	2025	Objective: Understanding of how biopsychosocial factors interrelate to affect recovery from ACL injuries is essential for improving patient outcomes. This research aimed to use Latent Class Analysis (LCA) to classify individuals post-ACL reconstruction into subgroups reflecting their particular biopsychosocial challenges to recovery. Design: Cross-Sectional. Methods: This multisite investigation included 134 ACLR patients approximately 6 months (5.6 months +/- 1.8 SD) following surgery. The ACL Reasons scale, various Patient Reported Outcome (PRO), and performance-based measures were assessed. LCA was used to categorize patients into subgroups based on the ACL Reasons scale. Subgroups were then compared across demographic, PRO, and performance-based measures using one-way analysis of variance and chi-squared tests. Results: LCA identified two distinct groups of patients who were less active after ACL reconstruction, characterized by varying levels of injury related fear, anxiety and depression. These groups reported lower outcomes and demonstrated reduced performance on hop tests in comparison to those who were as active as before their surgery. Conclusion: Patients less active post-surgery fall into two categories: one hindered by injury-related fear and symptoms, the other by mostly symptoms alone. Tailored interventions could enhance recovery, with one group possibly benefiting from psychological support and the other from a focus on functional and symptomatic treatment.		[Petushek, Erich] Michigan Technol Univ, Dept Psychol & Human Factors, 1400 Townsend Dr, Houghton, MI 49931 USA; [Petushek, Erich] Michigan Technol Univ, Hlth Res Inst, Houghton, MI 49931 USA; [Petushek, Erich; Santiago, Kim; Stamm, Alexander] Michigan State Univ, Coll Human Med, E Lansing, MI USA; [Harkey, Matthew S.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI USA; [Baez, Shelby] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Diekfuss, Jed A.; Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sports Performance & Res Ctr SPARC, Flowery Branch, GA USA; [Diekfuss, Jed A.; Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Atlanta, GA USA; [Diekfuss, Jed A.; Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Sch Med, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Georgia Inst Technol, Wallace H Coulter Dept Biomed Engn, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Univ, Atlanta, GA USA; [Kuenze, Christopher] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Petushek, Erich] Michigan Technol Univ, Dept Psychol & Human Factors, 1400 Townsend Dr, Houghton, MI 49931 USA								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001565983400001	61	Article; Article		
J	Collings, Tyler J.; Goodlich, Benjamin I.; Hams, Andrea H.; Bourne, Matthew N.								Reliability of <i>VALD DynaMo</i> dynamometer to assess upper and lower body isometric strength in healthy adults								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				135	143		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.08.005			SEP 2025	2025	Objectives: This study aimed to evaluate the intrarater within-day and between-day absolute agreement reliability of DynaMo Max and DynaMo Plus handheld dynamometers for upper and lower body isometric strength assessments compared to existing devices. Design: Repeated measures study. Setting: Two laboratory sessions, seven days apart. Participants: Twenty healthy, recreationally active adults (40 % female; age = 29.1 +/- 5.8 years). Main outcome measures: Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC), coefficient of variation, and Bland-Altman plots and 95 % limits of agreement for fourteen isometric strength tests. Results: DynaMo Max exhibited excellent between-day and within-day reliability (ICC >0.90) for 21 of 24 (88 %) upper and lower body isometric strength tests. Tests using tension were more reliable than those using compression. DynaMo Plus demonstrated similar reliability to the Jamar Hydraulic device for grip strength, although limits of agreement were -7.4 to 7.7 kg. DynaMo Max measured peak IMTP force with high levels of agreement to the ForceDecks (R-2 = 0.99, -22 to 95 N). Conclusions: DynaMo Plus and Max are reliable tools for isometric strength assessments of upper and lower body muscle groups. Tension tests are recommended over manually resisted compression tests. DynaMo Max and Plus are accurate and reliable options for IMTP and grip strength testing, respectively.		[Collings, Tyler J.; Hams, Andrea H.; Bourne, Matthew N.] Griffith Univ, Australian Ctr Precis Hlth & Technol PRECISE, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Collings, Tyler J.; Goodlich, Benjamin I.; Hams, Andrea H.; Bourne, Matthew N.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Goodlich, Benjamin I.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth, Sunshine Coast, Qld, Australia; [Collings, Tyler J.] Griffith Univ, G02 2-19,Parklands Dr, Southport, Qld 4215, Australia								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001561522600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Doyle, Jack; Morgan, John; Papathomas, Anthony; Hugo, Pippa; Hind, Daniel; Birks, Samuel								Disordered eating within elite male adolescent rugby: a cross-sectional study of the eating habits and attitudes in male academy rugby union players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	1			20	27		10.1080/00913847.2025.2550235			JAN 2 2026	2026	BackgroundDue to a range of pressures associated with high-performance environments, elite athletes are at increased risk of eating disorders and disordered eating. Most prevalence studies focus on female athletes in lean or esthetic sports, with males, particularly those competing in power sports, seldom considered. This study addresses this gap by exploring disordered eating in elite male adolescent rugby union players.MethodsWe distributed an online survey to male rugby players aged 16-18 through RFU-affiliated academies. The survey contained three sections: general demographics; the Eating Disorder Examination Questionnaire (EDE-Q); and knowledge of eating disorders.ResultsFrom 107 responses, 14% had a global EDE-Q score that met the clinical cut off of 1.68 for males displaying symptoms of an eating disorder. An increased Body Mass Index (BMI) was statistically significantly associated with a positive increase in global EDE-Q score. Props demonstrated the highest global EDE-Q scores. The desire to change body size was also statistically associated with increased global EDE-Q scores. Most participants admitted poor knowledge of eating disorders and where to access help to manage them by giving a score of 2 on a 1-5 Likert scale ranging from no knowledge to very knowledgeable.ConclusionsOverall, 14% of the elite adolescent male rugby participants in this study met the clinical cut off EDE-Q global score, suggesting that there may be a higher prevalence of disordered eating behaviors and attitudes compared to the general population. Increased BMI and certain positions are associated with more disordered eating behaviors and attitudes. There is also a lack of confidence in knowledge about EDs and where to access help, therefore greater education and awareness about this issue is warranted. More research is required to further explore the reasons for the increase in disordered eating behaviors and attitudes.		[Doyle, Jack; Birks, Samuel] Univ Sheffield, Fac Hlth, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Morgan, John] St Georges Univ London, Populat Hlth Res Ctr, London, England; [Papathomas, Anthony] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth, Loughborough, England; [Hugo, Pippa] South London & Maudsley NHS Trust, Child & Adolescent Psychiat, London, England; [Hind, Daniel] Univ Leeds, Sch Healthcare, Leeds, England; [Doyle, Jack] Univ Sheffield, Fac Hlth, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001554891100001	41	Article; Article		
J	Fan, Chen; Lee, Don; Johnston, Dan S.; Zhang, Yi								Successful operations of private youth sports academies in China: a case study of Cao Yanhua Table Tennis School in Shanghai								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	2			280	300		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2025-0089			MAY 8 2026	2026	Purpose - Through exploring the successful operations, marketing activities, and their integration of the Cao Yanhua Table Tennis Training School (CYS), this case study is intended to identify best practices, recognize common challenges and pitfalls, conceptualize effective operational and marketing mechanisms, and provide preliminary research evidence for continued inquiries in an effort to support the overall growth of sports academies. Design/methodology/approach - Grounded in the management process theory and the marketing mix concept and built on the existent literature, this case study employs interviews and field observations and adopts the grounded theory for research execution and data analyses. Findings - By analyzing and summarizing the model and experience of CYS' operations and marketing, the findings of this study induce a conceptual framework for youth sports academies that consists of five integrated sub-concepts: technical expertise, financial resources, athlete training, promotional strategies, and operational innovation. Practical implications - Establishing a high-quality personnel team with strong technical expertise and an effective organizational structure that is tailored to attain the mission and objectives of the sports academy, collaborating with local government and tabbing into community resources, adopting transparent operations with high standard, and utilizing contemporary technology for communications and promotions are key elements of the framework. Originality/value - This framework highlights the significance of integrating effective management and marketing for attaining program/product development and success, offers valuable insights for private table tennis clubs in China and beyond, and serves as a starting point for investigation into the operation and marketing of youth sports academies.		[Fan, Chen] Ningxia Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Yinchuan 750021, Peoples R China; [Lee, Don] Univ Houston, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Houston, TX USA; [Johnston, Dan S.] Georgia Coll & State Univ, Milledgeville, GA USA; [Zhang, Yi] Shanghai Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Yi] Shanghai Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001556516000001	45	Article; Article		
J	Sasseville, Garrett; Gilgallon, Timothy; Burland, Julie; DiStefano, Michael; Glaviano, Neal R.								Reliability of two-dimensional kinematics and performance in a battery of lateral hopping tasks in uninjured individuals								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				122	127		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.08.006			SEP 2025	2025	Objectives: The purpose of this study was to assess the reliability of a series of lateral hops for both performance and lower extremity kinematics.<br /> Design: Between-session reliability study.<br /> Setting: University Laboratory. Participants: 20 subjects (11 male, 9 females) 25.14 +/- 2.77 years, 72.97 +/- 9.73 kg, and 169.44 +/- 7.23 cm.<br /> Main outcome measures: Participants completed four lateral hops, altering their takeoff and landing legs. We quantified hop distance and 2-dimensional frontal and sagittal plane kinematics at peak knee flexion. Testing was performed on two occasions, with a mean difference of 7 days apart. Interclass correlation coefficients and paired t-tests were performed to compare reliability and differences in outcome measures across the two sessions, p < .05.<br /> Results: All four lateral hops had good to excellent reliability (ICC 0.84-0.91), with no statistical difference in hop distance between days, p > .05. Sagittal plane kinematics had good to excellent reliability (ICC 0.86-0.95) however frontal plane kinematics showed moderated to good reliability (ICC 0.54-0.90).<br /> Conclusion: A battery of lateral hopping tasks has moderate to excellent reliability for both performance and kinematics, suggesting their use by clinicians and in clinical practice.		[Sasseville, Garrett; Gilgallon, Timothy; Burland, Julie; DiStefano, Michael; Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Gilgallon, Timothy; Burland, Julie; DiStefano, Michael; Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Connecticut, Inst Sports Med, Storrs, CT USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Connecticut, Coll Agr Hlth & Nat Resources, Dept Kinesiol, 2095 Hillside Rd, U-1110, Storrs, CT 06269 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001560847200001	34	Article; Article		
J	Weber, Christian; Goetschi, Tobias; Zipser, Carl M.								Modification of the serratus anterior strength test to reduce confounding muscle activation: An EMG-based validation study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				128	134		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.08.009			SEP 2025	2025	Objectives: To compare the seated flexion strength test (FST) with two modifications incorporating shoulder external rotation and supine positioning, aiming to improve serratus anterior (SA) selectivity through reduced upper (UT) and lower trapezius (LT) interference. Design: Cross-sectional validation study using surface electromyography (EMG) and handheld dynamometry. Setting: University hospital musculoskeletal department. Participants: Eighteen healthy adults. Main outcome measures: EMG activation of SA, UT, LT and pectoralis major normalized to maximum voluntary contraction; activation ratios (UT/SA and LT/SA); force measurements with handheld dynamometer. Results: Both modifications significantly reduced UT (p = 0.002) and LT activation (p = 0.010-0.049) compared to the FST without significantly reducing SA activity. The ratios (median UT/SA, LT/SA) showed a nonsignificant trend toward reduction in modification 1 (0.53, 0.57) and modification 2 (0.60, 0.41) compared to the FST (0.83, 0.71). Only modification 2 demonstrated excellent reliability (ICC 0.97, 95 % CI:0.92-0.99, MDC 14 %). Conclusions: The modification 2 (supine positioning, shoulder external rotation, 45 degrees tilted dynamometer) enhances SA isolation and demonstrates superior reliability compared to the FST. Therefore, it may improve clinical assessment of SA strength particularly when differentiating from UT and LT is of interest. Further research is needed before applying these findings to patient populations.		[Weber, Christian] Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy, Forchstr 340, CH-8008 Zurich, Switzerland; [Goetschi, Tobias] Balgrist Univ Hosp, Clin Trial Unit, Forchstr 340, CH-8008 Zurich, Switzerland; [Zipser, Carl M.] Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Neurol & Neurophysiol, Forchstr 340, CH-8008 Zurich, Switzerland; [Weber, Christian] Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy, Forchstr 340, CH-8008 Zurich, Switzerland								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001560847200002	54	Article; Article		
J	Stuttgen, Peter								The Impact of Scheduling and Match Congestion on Team Performance in Professional Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	8			887	912		10.1177/15270025251369423			DEC 2025	2025	Match congestion, or playing two games within four days, is a common topic of debate amongst soccer fans, players, and coaches. We analyze match results from five seasons of the German Bundesliga to examine whether playing a game under match congestion affects a team's performance. We find that substantial differences between teams and across seasons. On average we find that a team's offensive strength is negatively affected, whereas a team's defensive strength improves for home games under match congestion. A simulation exercise shows that the season's schedule can have a substantial impact on a team's outcome for the season, even if the number of games played under match congestion is held constant for each team, i.e., the result is due to which opponent is faced under match congestion. Finally, for the Spanish and English leagues we find similar impacts on defensive strengths, but no impact on offensive strengths.		[Stuttgen, Peter] Carnegie Mellon Univ, Tepper Sch Business, Pittsburgh, PA 15213 USA; [Stuttgen, Peter] Carnegie Mellon Univ, Tepper Sch Business, Pittsburgh, PA 15213 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001553447000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Davies, Gemma L.; Webb, Lauren E. N.; Dinnie, Alf								Formula for success: Using an accreditation to excel data literacy in early-career sport performance analysts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1602	1613		10.1177/17479541251368751			JUN 2026	2026	Whilst frameworks for the applied practice of Sport Performance Analysis (SPA) are established, a framework for the development of competencies in early-career analysts remains unexplored. Student perceptions on integrating the Microsoft Office Specialist (MOS) Excel accreditation into a first-year SPA university module were gathered to assess the value of professional accreditations for curriculum design. Ten focus groups centred as unstructured forums involving 1st or 2nd year students were held to gather honest reflections on e-lessons, peer-review feedback and the professional accreditation embedded into the module. Following transcription of audio files, thematic analysis was performed collaboratively utilising an inductive approach to identify themes before refining codes deductively. Analysis revealed SPA students enjoyed self-regulating the pace of learning with online resources however not in place of face-to-face sessions. Face-to-face sessions provided a collaborative environment making feedback and support easier to gain, which boosted engagement and learning. Further findings highlighted the importance of accreditation content reflecting industry demands including time constraints and data used. Therefore, as a foundation to developing a competency framework, early-career analysts should prioritise accreditations to objectively demonstrate skill competency. Organisations can use accreditations to validate recruitment processes and continue the development of employees.		[Davies, Gemma L.; Webb, Lauren E. N.; Dinnie, Alf] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cyncoed Campus, Cardiff CF23 6XD, Wales; [Davies, Gemma L.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cyncoed Campus, Cardiff CF23 6XD, Wales								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001552260500001	73	Article; Article		
J	Yeh, Hung-Chih; Ho, Chia-An; Hsieh, Cheng-Hsun; Lau, Hei-Tung; Chang, En-Yu; Hsu, Chih-Wen; Lin, Wei-Hsuan; Ho, Chin-Shan								The impact of accumulated pitching counts on performance and lower body neuromuscular fatigue in baseball players: a simulated game analysis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3624	3636		10.1080/14763141.2025.2546381			DEC 2 2025	2025	The study aimed to investigate the effects of accumulated pitching counts on lower body neuromuscular fatigue (NMF) and pitching velocity. Twelve first-level collegiate baseball pitchers completed seven simulated innings (a total of 105 pitches), during which data on ball speed, countermovement jump (CMJ), and rate of perceived exertion (RPE) were collected. Ball speed did not show a significant difference over time (F-7,F-77 = 2.14; p = 0.57; eta(2) = 0.16). Except for the modified reactive strength index (mRSI) (F-7,F-77 = 0.14, p = 0.94; eta(2) = 0.01), all other CMJ parameters showed significant differences (e.g. eccentric rate of force development: F-7,F-77 = 17.44; p < 0.01; eta(2) = 0.53; concentric impulse: F-7,F-77 = 9.66; p < 0.01; eta(2) = 0.46). RPE showed a significant difference over time (F-7,F-77 = 52.86; p < 0.01; eta(2) = 0.82) with a large effect size. Accumulated pitch counts caused lower body NMF in pitchers, while ball speed remained stable. Coaches should actively monitor pitcher conditions after completing the fifth inning (75 pitches), as ball speed may not be a reliable indicator of fatigue.		[Yeh, Hung-Chih; Ho, Chia-An; Hsieh, Cheng-Hsun; Lau, Hei-Tung; Chang, En-Yu; Hsu, Chih-Wen; Ho, Chin-Shan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Lin, Wei-Hsuan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Sport Training Sci Balls, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Ho, Chin-Shan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001551692400001	34	Article; Article		
J	Cheng, Kai-Jen; Mori, Kanji; Lee, Byungjoo; Martinez, Andrea; Baek, Seungho; Alvis, Hunter B.; Kwon, Young-Hoo								Effects of on-plane wrist release style on morphological, temporal, and kinematic swing characteristic in golf drives performed by skilled male golfers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3637	3654		10.1080/14763141.2025.2547277			DEC 2 2025	2025	A key motion in developing clubhead speed (CHS) during a golf swing is wrist cocking and uncocking on the swing plane. This study aimed to investigate how the morphological, temporal, and kinematic characteristics of drives performed by 84 elite male golfers differ among four distinct wrist release styles (WRS), classified based on the timing of uncocking and the shape of the on-plane wrist angular velocity pattern: Delayed Release 1 and 2 (DR1 and DR2), Early Release (ER), and Recocking (RC). Significant (p < .05) inter-style differences were observed in peak on-plane wrist uncocking velocity, transition and early downswing phase times, directions of the swing plane and hand motion plane, off-plane motions of the hand centre and clubhead, and the transition sequence. The DR styles generally showed larger uncocking velocities, longer transition and shorter early downswing phases, along with a complete proximal-to-distal sequential transition compared to the ER/RC styles. Styles with a prominent negative acceleration phase in the wrist angular velocity (DR1 and RC) exhibited relatively larger off-plane shallowing motions. CHS, however, did not show significant inter-style difference. The WRS reflects variations in backswing pattern (body- vs. arm-driven) and the degree of off-plane shallowing motions of the hands and club.		[Cheng, Kai-Jen; Mori, Kanji; Lee, Byungjoo; Martinez, Andrea; Baek, Seungho; Alvis, Hunter B.; Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womans Univ, Biomech & Motor Behav Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womans Univ, Biomech & Motor Behav Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001551691200001	24	Article; Article		
J	Jerez-Martinez, Agustin; Romero-Arenas, Salvador								Impact of Hypertrophy-Focused Resistance Training on Mitochondrial Capacity: A New Perspective Through Near-Infrared Spectroscopy								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			60	67		10.1080/02701367.2025.2542816			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study aimed to compare the oxidative capacity of resting skeletal muscle between experienced natural bodybuilders and untrained individuals, using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Thirty-four male subjects participated voluntarily and were classified into two groups: 1) bodybuilding (n = 17; age: 24.3 +/- 3.6 years, height: 180.1 +/- 7.1 cm, body mass: 90.5 +/- 9.3 kg), and 2) control (n = 17; age: 21.8 +/- 2.7 years, height: 176.7 +/- 5.7 cm, body mass: 71.4 +/- 10.3 kg). The muscle oxygen consumption (mVO2) of the vastus lateralis was measured using continuous-wave NIRS with transient arterial occlusions. The recovery rate of mVO2 was fitted to a mono-exponential curve with the time constant (TC) used as an index of muscle oxidative capacity. The TC obtained from the mono-exponential fit was significantly lower in the bodybuilding group (TC: 23.5 +/- 7.1 s) compared to the control group (TC: 40.7 +/- 8.3 s), indicating enhanced muscle oxidative capacity (p < .001; effect size: 2.24). Additionally, initial end-exercise mVO2 values were significantly different between the bodybuilding group (3.5 +/- 1.3% <middle dot> s(-1)) and control group (2.5 +/- 1.0% <middle dot> s(-1)). The reduced TC observed in the natural bodybuilders group demonstrates that RT focused on enhancing muscle hypertrophy improves the muscle oxidative capacity. These findings provide valuable insights into metabolic adaptations induced by RT and underscore the utility of NIRS for assessing muscle oxidative capacity.		[Jerez-Martinez, Agustin; Romero-Arenas, Salvador] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, Murcia, Spain; [Romero-Arenas, Salvador] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, Fac Sport Sci, Campus Jeronimos s-n, Murcia 30107, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001550942000001	57	Article; Article		
J	Denul, Ayala; Haerens, Leen; Loeys, Tom								How does need satisfaction mediate the relation between harmonious passion and positive affect in coaches and athletes? A dyadic longitudinal study in coach-athlete dyads								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			5	18		10.1177/17479541251366906			FEB 2026	2026	Previous research has linked harmonious passion to positive affect in both coaches and athletes. Additionally, need satisfaction is suggested to mediate this relationship. However, these studies often relied on cross-sectional designs or failed to account for the inherent dyadic relationship between coaches and athletes. Addressing these limitations, our study combines a longitudinal design with a dyadic perspective to provide a more comprehensive understanding of the processes underlying positive affect in coaches and athletes. Using the longitudinal actor-partner interdependence mediation model, we investigated actor and partner effects for coaches and athletes at both the between- and within-person level. Our findings reveal that, for both coaches and athletes, their own harmonious passion is positively associated with their own positive affect at both the between- and within-person level. Notably, for coaches, this relationship is partly mediated by their own need satisfaction. Moreover, we found preliminary evidence for partner effects through coaches' need satisfaction at both the between- and within-person level. In summary, the longitudinal design suggests that harmonious passion is important for both coaches and athletes, not only in terms of between-person differences but also in terms of changes within an individual over a season. Additionally, the dyadic perspective yields valuable insights into potential partner effects via coaches' need satisfaction.		[Denul, Ayala; Loeys, Tom] Univ Ghent, Dept Data Anal, Ghent, Belgium; [Haerens, Leen] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Denul, Ayala] Univ Ghent, Dept Expt Psychol, Henri Dunantlaan 2, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001549837600001	55	Article; Article		
J	Wild, Sam; Owen, Cameron; Jones, Ben; Scantlebury, Sean; Anderson, Paul; Alder, John; Till, Kev								How does the productivity of rugby league academies relate to differences in their physical qualities and physical development?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			284	294		10.1177/17479541251367299			FEB 2026	2026	Different talent development (TDE) environments exhibit varying training practices in the rugby league talent identity and development systems (TIDS), which may influence rates of talent development and subsequent productivity of each TDE. This study aimed to compare physical qualities and rates of physical development between different rugby league TDEs within the same TIDS, alongside differences between groups of TDEs based on their level of productivity. A sample of 261 youth rugby league players from six academy teams (i.e., TDEs) within the professional TIDS were tested as part of a league-wide fitness testing battery for measures of anthropometrics, strength, power, speed, and cardiovascular fitness. Linear mixed models revealed medium, significant differences in maximum sprint velocity at the beginning of the season ( eta(2) = 0.05, p = 0.03) and large, significant differences in the development of prone Yo-Yo IRI distance over time ( n(2) = 0.14-0.18, p < 0.001) between TDEs. No significant differences between groups of TDEs based on their productivity were found. These findings indicate that possible variability in the practices of TDEs mostly leads to small or trivial differences in physical qualities and physical development. Differences in physical qualities and physical development do not appear to relate to the productivity of TDEs, therefore TDEs should focus on holistic development to maximise productivity.		[Wild, Sam; Owen, Cameron; Jones, Ben; Scantlebury, Sean; Till, Kev] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Wild, Sam; Owen, Cameron; Jones, Ben; Scantlebury, Sean; Anderson, Paul] England Performance Unit, Rugby Football League, Manchester, England; [Jones, Ben] Premiership Rugby, London, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Lifestyle & Sport Res Ctr, Dept Human Biol,Div Physiol Sci & Hlth Phys Act, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben] Australian Catholic Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Alder, John] Welsh Rugby Union, Cardiff, Wales; [Till, Kev] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League club, Leeds, England; [Wild, Sam] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Wild, Sam] England Performance Unit, Rugby Football League, Manchester, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001551205000001	42	Article; Article		
J	Steyn, D. G.; Mithrush, Troy; Koentges, Chris; Andrews, Susan; Plourde, Andre								Executing a successful third shot drop in pickleball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1929	1935		10.1177/17479541251365200			JUN 2026	2026	We define and investigate a successful third shot drop in pickleball using a numerical model of pickleball ball aerodynamics. Our overall objective is to investigate the ranges of initial speeds, angles and spins that result in a successful third shot drop. We conclude that the initial speed must be in the range 10.9 metres per second to 13 metres per second for down-the-line shots and 13.3 metres per second to 16 metres per second for cross-court shots. The initial angle must be in the range 15.5 degrees to 22.5 degrees for down-the-line shots and 12.5 degrees to 18 degrees for cross-court shots. We conclude that the effects of spin on the third shot drop are of secondary importance. We believe these results could be useful as a guide to coaches and players wanting to develop this crucial aspect of the game of pickleball.		[Steyn, D. G.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Earth Ocean & Atmospher Sci, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Steyn, D. G.; Mithrush, Troy; Koentges, Chris; Andrews, Susan; Plourde, Andre] Jericho Hill Pickleball Sch, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Plourde, Andre] Carleton Univ, Dept Econ, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Steyn, D. G.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Earth Ocean & Atmospher Sci, Vancouver, BC, Canada								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001547488700001	19	Article; Article		
J	Alanis, Melody								Unseen but unstoppable: Latina sport fans and their fight for representation in the US								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP								1	18		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2025-0139			AUG 11 2025	2025	PurposeLatines (a gender-neutral term encompassing Latina and Latino individuals) constitute the fastest-growing demographic in the United States (U.S.), exerting significant influence on the cultural and economic dynamics of numerous industries, including the sport sector. Despite their substantial contributions, their lived experiences, particularly those of Latina sport fans, remain critically underexamined. This study addresses this gap by employing a qualitative phenomenological approach to investigate how intersecting identities of gender and race shape the lived experiences of Latina sport fans within the U.S. sport industry.Design/methodology/approachSemi-structured interviews with 10 participants revealed exclusion and systemic underrepresentation.FindingsNevertheless, Latina participants demonstrated remarkable resilience through deeply rooted familial and communal ties with other Latina sport fans.Originality/valueThis research provides essential insights for developing inclusive frameworks and fostering equitable representation in the U.S. sport industry.		[Alanis, Melody] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, College Stn, TX 77840 USA; [Alanis, Melody] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, College Stn, TX 77840 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001583585500001	87	Article; Article		
J	Subedi, Miraj; Sinsurin, Komsak; Suttiwong, Jatuporn; Warathanagasame, Pinyada; Gao, Yu								Validity of the modified landing error scoring system (LESS-M) for screening non-contact ACL injury risk using a lateral single-leg jump-landing task								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				98	104		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.08.003			SEP 2025	2025	Objectives: To develop the Landing Error Scoring System-Modified (LESS-M) and assess its content and concurrent validity. Design: Content and concurrent validity study. Setting: Online expert survey and laboratory-based testing. Participants: Five field experts and 29 healthy individuals. Main outcome measures: Content Validity Index (CVI) and Spearman's rank correlation between LESS-M scores and standard 3D motion analysis. Results: All experts endorsed the lateral single-leg jump-landing task and the modified assessment tool. The ave-CVI and I-CVI were 0.97 and 0.8-1.0, respectively. Moderate correlations were found between the LESS-M score and both knee valgus (rho = 0.425; p = 0.001) and hip adduction moment (rho = 0.446; p = 0.001) at peak vertical ground reaction force (vGRF). Conclusions: The LESS-M demonstrated strong content validity based on expert consensus and showed moderate concurrent validity with 3D motion capture for assessing lateral single-leg jump landing. It may be a potential tool for identifying individuals at risk for non-contact ACL injury. Nonetheless, further investigation is required to determine an appropriate cutoff score and to assess the reliability of the LESS-M for broader application.		[Subedi, Miraj; Sinsurin, Komsak; Gao, Yu] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech & Sports Res Unit, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Rd, Salaya 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Subedi, Miraj] Hosp Adv Med & Surg, Mandikhatar, Kathmandu, Nepal; [Suttiwong, Jatuporn] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Funct Outcome Measure Res Unit, Salaya, Thailand; [Warathanagasame, Pinyada] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Phys Therapy Ctr, Salaya, Thailand; [Sinsurin, Komsak] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech & Sports Res Unit, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Rd, Salaya 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Sinsurin, Komsak] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech & Sports Res Unit, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Rd, Salaya 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Sinsurin, Komsak] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech & Sports Res Unit, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Rd, Salaya 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001558898500002	34	Article; Article		
J	Beldman, Esmee E.; Tsang, Sharon M. H.; Dennis, Sarah M.; Halley, Samuel L.; Liu, Chen; Liu, Sienna J. X.; Zhang, Ping; Fu, Allan C. L.								Exploring the essential characteristics for talent identification in volleyball: Insights from elite coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			51	63		10.1177/17479541251359875			FEB 2026	2026	Talent identification (TI) programmes in sports, such as volleyball, often rely on subjective evaluations without formal guidelines, leading to inconsistent talent selection. While the Expanded Model of Talent Development (EMTD) is a widely adopted framework for TI, it lacks sport-specific criteria. The aims of this study are to elaborate on the EMTD by identifying key anthropometric, physiological, and skill characteristics for TI of adolescent volleyball players from the perspectives of elite coaches (i.e., national or international- level coaches), and to explore how biomechanics support coaches' traditional TI methods. Data collection involved two online Nominal Group Technique (NGT) meetings with eight elite volleyball coaches. Quantitative analysis of coaches' rankings and qualitative examination of transcripts were conducted. The coaches selected and consolidated nine key characteristics for TI in volleyball. These included three anthropometric characteristics (standing reach height, peak height velocity, and arm span), four physiological characteristics (vertical jump, speed, agility, and core strength/stability), and two skill characteristics (hand-eye coordination and perceptual skills/spatial awareness). Regarding biomechanics, the coaches' perspectives ranged from scepticism to strong support. Some coaches advocated for low-cost field-based assessments (e.g., vertical jump, chalk tests), while others recommended advanced lab-based assessments (e.g., movement analysis and physical screening) to enhance efficiency, injury prevention, and objectivity in TI. These insights informed a two-tiered list of recommended assessments. Coaches should consider applying these tests to identify talented volleyball players. Sports biomechanics can assist in this process. Further research involving longitudinal tests is necessary to examine the effects of these characteristics over time.		[Beldman, Esmee E.; Dennis, Sarah M.; Halley, Samuel L.; Liu, Chen; Liu, Sienna J. X.; Fu, Allan C. L.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sci Rd, Sydney, NSW 2050, Australia; [Beldman, Esmee E.] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Fac Med Sci, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Tsang, Sharon M. H.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Dennis, Sarah M.] Ingham Inst Appl Med Res, Liverpool, NSW, Australia; [Dennis, Sarah M.] South Western Sydney Local Hlth Dist, Liverpool, NSW, Australia; [Zhang, Ping] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Sch Humanities & Social Sci, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Ping] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Fu, Allan C. L.] Univ Sydney, Charles Perkins Ctr, Musculoskeletal Res Hub, Sydney, Australia; [Fu, Allan C. L.] Univ Sydney, China Studies Ctr, Sydney, Australia; [Fu, Allan C. L.] Univ Sydney, Sydney Southeast Asia Ctr, Sydney, Australia; [Fu, Allan C. L.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sci Rd, Sydney, NSW 2050, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001546891100001	47	Article; Article		
J	Kang, Sangwook								Development and validation of the golf player-caddie relationship scale: A multidimensional approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251364650				2025	This study developed and validated the Golf Player-Caddie Relationship Scale (GPCRS) to quantitatively assess the multidimensional relationship between professional golfers and their caddies. A sequential three-study design was employed. In Study 1, qualitative interviews with five professional golfers and five caddies were analyzed thematically to generate an initial item pool. Study 2 involved expert review, pilot testing, and exploratory factor analysis (EFA) with 147 participants, resulting in a four-factor structure: Trust-based Communication, Course Strategy Provision, Emotional Support, and Long-term Growth. Study 3 conducted confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) on a separate subsample (n = 147), confirming the four-factor model (CFI = .969, TLI = .958, RMSEA = .071, SRMR = .046). The GPCRS demonstrated high internal consistency (alpha = .734-.954), strong construct reliability (CR = .749- .956), and evidence of convergent and discriminant validity. Measurement invariance across gender groups was established. The GPCRS offers a psychometrically sound instrument for researchers and practitioners to assess and enhance player-caddie relationships, with implications for performance optimization and psychological support in professional golf.		[Kang, Sangwook] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea; [Kang, Sangwook] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001545280500001	27	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Spyrou, Konstantinos; Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Freitas, Tomas T.; Travassos, Bruno								Quantification of Weekly External Load in Female Futsal Players: Considering Inter-Day and -Player Variability								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			52	59		10.1080/02701367.2025.2539190			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study aimed to analyze weekly training external load and match demands in female futsal players. Eight players competing in the 2nd Division of Spain, were recruited. Training and match load data, including total, low- medium- high-intensity accelerations (ACC), decelerations (DEC), and changes of direction (COD) were recorded and analyzed considering total effective time. A linear mixed model was used. Significantly more ACC and COD, and total and low-intensity DEC actions occurred on match day (MD), MD-4 and MD-2 compared to MD+2 (p = <.001-0.04; ES = 0.56-1.79). No differences were found between MD and MD-4 (p = 0.293-1.000; ES = 0.00-0.71). Significantly more total ACC and total and low-intensity DEC occurred on MD than MD-2 (p = 0.014-0.021; ES = 0.29-0.55), and total DEC and COD on MD-4 than MD-2 (p = 0.001-0.017; ES = 0.28-0.89). Moderate-high inter-day and -player variability was found. The microcycle periodized based on MD, revealing inter-day and individual variability in external load.		[Spyrou, Konstantinos; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Freitas, Tomas T.] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, Murcia, Spain; [Spyrou, Konstantinos; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Freitas, Tomas T.] Strength & Conditioning Soc, Rome, Italy; [Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Covilha, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Joao Nuno] Polytech Inst Guarda, Guarda, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Joao Nuno] SPRINT Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castel, Portugal; [Freitas, Tomas T.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Travassos, Bruno] Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Oeiras, Portugal; [Spyrou, Konstantinos] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia 30107, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001544585700001	24	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Paul H.								The Accuracy of Single-Time-Point Physical Activity Measures Compared to Multi-Year Composite Scores from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			13	21		10.1080/02701367.2025.2531971			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study evaluated the validity of using baseline physical activity as a proxy for habitual activity in longitudinal research. Data were sourced from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing (ELSA), including older adults aged 50+ in England, observed over a 20-year period with data collected every 2 years from 2002 to 2023. A total of 12,099 participants from Wave 1 of ELSA (2002-2003) (mean age 64.2, 44.1% male) were included in the analysis. Physical activity frequency was measured using self-reported questionnaires at each of the 10 Waves, and a 10-wave composite score was created using the available physical activity data. Health outcomes included depressive symptoms, executive function, memory, quality of life, and self-rated general health. Baseline and 10-wave composite physical activity measures were moderately to strongly correlated (rho = 0.56-0.72), with comparable associations observed for health outcomes such as moderate activity with depressive symptoms and general health, and vigorous activity with executive function and quality of life. The composite score, however, demonstrated larger effect sizes and better reflected the decline in physical activity over time. To conclude, baseline physical activity measurements can serve as a reliable proxy for habitual activity in longitudinal studies, though multiple measurements over time improve statistical power.		[Lee, Paul H.] Univ Southampton, Southampton, England; [Lee, Paul H.] Univ Southampton, Southampton Gen Hosp, Southampton Clin Trials Unit, Tremona Rd, Southampton SO16 6YD, Hants, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001543803200001	25	Article; Article		
J	Malamud, Ofir; Murad, Roj; Fernandez, angel Garcia; Clubb, Jo; Beato, Marco								Seasonal analysis of training and match running demands in U15-U16 elite Spanish football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			207	215		10.1177/17479541251362987			FEB 2026	2026	This study aimed to quantify the running demands of U-15 and U-16 elite soccer players across both training and match-play. Forty-five male youth soccer players (U-15: n = 21, U-16: n = 24) from the same club were monitored using 18 Hz Global Positioning System (GPS) technology during training sessions (U-15: n = 106, U-16: n = 134) and matches (U-15: n = 41, U-16: n = 42) throughout the 2022-2023 season. U-16 players, particularly fullbacks, demonstrated greater running demands across several metrics compared to U-15 players during matches. U-16 wide midfielders recorded higher maximal sprint speeds (p < 0.001, ES: 1.13), along with a greater number of accelerations (p < 0.001, ES: 1.72) and decelerations (p = 0.006, ES: 0.92), relative to the U-15 group. However, U-15 center backs (p = 0.030, ES: -0.75), and central midfielders (p < 0.001, ES: -1.45) performed a significantly higher number of decelerations during matches than their U-16 counterparts. In training, U-16 players exhibited higher maximal sprinting speed, apart from central forwards (p = 0.078, ES: 0.52). Accelerations and decelerations were greater in training than in match-play, unlike other parameters. In conclusion, running demands in youth soccer players are influenced by both playing position and age, with differences observed between U-15 and U-16 players. These findings can inform coaches regarding age-specific training strategies and talent development programs by implementing position-specific drills or tailored load management strategies in youth soccer academies. Understanding these variations assists in optimizing training regimens to improve player performance and progression to higher levels of competition.		[Malamud, Ofir] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Netanya, Israel; [Murad, Roj] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Sect Sports Med, Umea, Sweden; [Fernandez, angel Garcia] Valencia Football Club, Valencia, Spain; [Clubb, Jo] Global Performance Insight Ltd, London, England; [Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Ipswich, England; [Beato, Marco] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Malamud, Ofir] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Netanya, Israel								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001543818700001	43	Article; Article		
J	Vinue, Guillermo								An example of using ChatGPT for football recruitment purposes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			244	257		10.1177/17479541251362838			FEB 2026	2026	This work has been inspired by a recruiting system that a Spanish football club created with artificial intelligence making use of both numerical and textual descriptions of players. However, the news piece presenting this approach did not give many details. Within this context, I was curious to know whether ChatGPT could provide me with some more information, which further led me to the idea of trying to develop my own player matching procedure. Following several constructive exchanges with ChatGPT and after performing some successful tests, I present the algorithm in this paper. The main questions that this research aims to discuss are as follows: how ChatGPT can be utilized in autonomous research projects, particularly in sports; how to overcome the lack of public football data, also considering textual information about players; and how to support the expert knowledge of recruiters and coaches with data-based tools. Indeed, one limitation when carrying out football analysis is the difficulty accessing public data, not to mention unstructured texts. I propose to use data from video games to mimic recruitment tasks. The methodology behind the algorithm is based on text embeddings and the Gaussian kernel to work with the text and numbers that represent each player, respectively. A new R package called fawir that includes the recruiting algorithm and a data set to reproduce the results is also presented.										0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001543040300001	35	Article; Article		
J	Koop, Lisa; Brancaccio, Andrea; Pizzera, Alexandra; Raab, Markus; Voigt, Laura								Height bias in basketball refereeing: The influence of player and referee height on foul decisions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			341	349		10.1177/17479541251362686			FEB 2026	2026	Simulation theory posits that individuals use internal motor simulations to anticipate others' actions. Embodied officiating, aligning with this theory, suggests that referees use similar internal simulations to judge athletes' actions. We tested whether basketball referees favor players of similar height in their foul decision making, as shared physical attributes might facilitate the simulation of their actions. Analyzing 8641 foul calls from 219 games in the 2020/21 Men's German Basketball-Bundesliga season, we found that mean height differences between referees and players modestly affected foul calls: Referees called more fouls as the height difference with the fouling players increased, and fewer as the height of fouled players increased. These findings suggest that physical attributes like height may subtly influence referees' judgments and indicate complex interactions between referee and player height. Further research is needed to determine the mechanisms behind this effect.		[Koop, Lisa; Pizzera, Alexandra; Raab, Markus; Voigt, Laura] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Psychol, Dept Performance Psychol, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Brancaccio, Andrea] CNR, Inst Appl Math & Informat Technol E Magenes, Milan, Italy; [Koop, Lisa] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Psychol, Dept Performance Psychol, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001543075300001	49	Article; Article		
J	Velasquez Chavez, Daphne Solange; Utani Bendezu, Ximena Nataly; Escobedo Cardenas, Edwin Jonathan								Predictive machine learning models for match outcomes in taekwondo based on competitive history								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			403	415		10.1177/17479541251363562			FEB 2026	2026	Taekwondo is an Olympic combat sport where performance depends on speed, strength, and tactical precision. Although data-driven methods are advancing in sports science, predictive modeling in taekwondo remains limited. Most existing studies focus on physical metrics or more popular disciplines, leaving a gap in outcome prediction based on competitive history. In this study, we analyze the contribution of technical and contextual features to match outcomes, aiming to identify the most relevant predictors of success. We also propose a dual-structured dataset: one version models individual match sequences, and the other captures pairwise confrontations. This design allows evaluation under both temporal and head-to-head prediction frameworks. Using official data from the Peruvian Taekwondo Sports Federation, we trained and compared eight machine learning models. LightGBM achieved the highest F1-score (84.00%) in the sequence-based format, while XGBoost performed best (75.00%) in the pairwise version. Feature importance analysis revealed second-round actions-clean points and penalties-as key predictors. Our findings demonstrate that machine learning can effectively identify technical and contextual variables that influence match outcomes, offering valuable support for performance improvement, training optimization, and strategic planning in high-performance taekwondo.		[Velasquez Chavez, Daphne Solange; Utani Bendezu, Ximena Nataly; Escobedo Cardenas, Edwin Jonathan] Univ Lima, Carrera Ingn Sistemas, Lima, Peru; [Escobedo Cardenas, Edwin Jonathan] Grp Invest Optimizac Combinatoria & Inteligencia A, Lima, Peru; [Velasquez Chavez, Daphne Solange] Univ Lima, Carrera Ingn Sistemas, Lima, Peru								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001543055100001	25	Article; Article		
J	Rikken, K. T. H. (Koen); Nijmeijer, E. M. (Eline); Vercauteren, F. (Fabian); Benjaminse, A. (Anne)								Does self-controlled timing of feedback improve movement execution? The role of autonomy in improving sidestep cutting technique in male ball sports players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			121	130		10.1177/17479541251364478			FEB 2026	2026	Providing athletes with control during training can enhance motor skill acquisition, a strategy that may reduce anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury risk by improving movement quality. A possible strategy to improve sidestep cutting (SSC) technique is by offering the athlete autonomy via self-controlled timing of feedback. This study explored the effect of autonomy on lower extremity biomechanics. Thirty male ball sports players were alternately assigned to the self-control (SC) or yoked (YK) group. Participants completed the pre-test, training, and immediate post-test the first day. One week later, a retention test was conducted. During training, the SC group could determine when to receive feedback, whereas the YK group could not. Feedback consisted of SSC score, video feedback and an external focus verbal cue. Testing and training conditions consisted of anticipated and unanticipated 45 degrees SSC tasks. Lower extremity kinematics and kinetics were captured using 3D infrared motion capture and force plates. Statistical analysis was performed using Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) on data from 22 participants (alpha = 0.025). The two-way repeated-measures ANOVA revealed that training itself, for the whole sample of both groups combined, improved SSC technique. Subsequent exploratory secondary analysis (SPM one-way ANOVA within each group) revealed that the SC group had an increased hip flexion angle and a reduced knee flexion moment and hip abduction angle at the retention test, compared to baseline on the anticipated SSC. These biomechanical changes are advantageous for reducing ACL injury risk. Suggesting that autonomy, through self-controlled timing of feedback, improves the uptake of feedback.		[Rikken, K. T. H. (Koen); Nijmeijer, E. M. (Eline); Vercauteren, F. (Fabian); Benjaminse, A. (Anne)] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Benjaminse, A. (Anne)] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001543064700001	64	Article; Article		
J	Acheche, Amal; Tounsi, Mohamed; Mekki, Marwa; Racil, Ghazi; Tabka, Oussama; Bchir, Sarra; Ben Nasr, Hela; Chahed, Karim; Padulo, Johnny; Migliaccio, Gian Mario; Trabelsi, Yassine								Effects of Combined Resistance and Aerobic Training on the Inflammatory Markers in Male Patients With COPD: A Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				97	1			43	51		10.1080/02701367.2025.2535476			JAN 2 2026	2026	Systemic inflammation has been recognized as an extrapulmonary manifestation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Recent studies have indicated that exercise training can reduce the levels of inflammatory cells and mediators in both healthy individuals and those with heart diseases. However, the impact of combining resistance training (RT) with aerobic training (AT) on inflammatory biomarkers in COPD patients remains unclear. This study aims to analyze the effects of adding RT to AT on inflammatory markers in patients with COPD. Thirty-one patients diagnosed with COPD were randomly assigned to either a combined resistance and aerobic training group (RATG; n = 16) or an aerobic training group (ATG; n = 15). Both groups participated in their respective exercise regimens three times per week for a duration of 3 months. Anthropometric characteristics were recorded, and all patients underwent lung function testing as well as a six-minute walk test. Additionally, levels of IL-6, IL-17, and IL-32 were measured to assess inflammation. The 6-min walking distance, dyspnea levels, and oxygen saturation (SpO2) all showed significant improvement in the intervention group. In both groups, the concentrations of IL-6, IL-17, and IL-32 decreased significantly (p < .05) following the rehabilitation program. Notably, IL-6 levels exhibited a more significant decrease in the intervention group compared to the control group. Both exercise regimens led to reductions in IL-6, IL-17, and IL-32 levels. However, the combined training appears to exert a synergistic effect, potentially offering greater anti-inflammatory and functional benefits in COPD patients.		[Acheche, Amal; Tounsi, Mohamed; Mekki, Marwa; Tabka, Oussama; Bchir, Sarra; Ben Nasr, Hela; Chahed, Karim; Trabelsi, Yassine] Univ Sousse, Sousse, Tunisia; [Racil, Ghazi] Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Ksar Said, Tunisia; [Racil, Ghazi] Univ Gafsa, Gafsa, Tunisia; [Padulo, Johnny] Univ Milan, Milan, Italy; [Migliaccio, Gian Mario] San Raffaele Rome Open Univ, Rome, Italy; [Migliaccio, Gian Mario] Maxima Performa, Milan, Italy; [Padulo, Johnny] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth SCIBIS, Via Colombo 71, I-20133 Milan, Italy								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001543101100001	51	Article; Article		
J	Thurlow, Fraser; McLaren, Shaun J.; Townshend, Andrew; Weakley, Jonathon								The Application of Repeated-Sprint Training								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	4			398	413		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000881			AUG 2025	2025	Repeated-sprint training (RST) involves maximal-effort, short-duration sprints (<= 10 seconds) interspersed with brief (<= 60 seconds) recovery periods. It can enhance a range of physical qualities to help prepare intermittent sport athletes for the high-intensity demands of competition. This review provides a scientific basis for applying running-based RST with intermittent sport athletes. The acute and chronic responses to RST are reviewed, as well as the manipulation of programming variables to target specific training outcomes (i.e., sprint modality, number of repetitions and sets, repetition distance, rest time, rest modality, volume, training frequency, and program duration). Furthermore, practical considerations for an individualized approach to RST and an applied framework for how and when it can be best integrated into the annual training program are presented.		[Thurlow, Fraser; Townshend, Andrew; Weakley, Jonathon] Australian Catholic Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Thurlow, Fraser; Townshend, Andrew; Weakley, Jonathon] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Brisbane, Australia; [Thurlow, Fraser] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, Australia; [McLaren, Shaun J.] Newcastle Falcons Rugby Club, Newcastle Upon Tyne, England; [McLaren, Shaun J.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Weakley, Jonathon] Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Thurlow, Fraser] Australian Catholic Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Thurlow, Fraser] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol S, Brisbane, Australia; [Thurlow, Fraser] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, Australia								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544037100001	131	Article; Article		
J	Kozub, Francis M.; Walker, Ash								Using Linear Positioning Transducers to Improve Snatch Performance in Weightlifters								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	4			425	432		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000889			AUG 2025	2025	This article examines how to use linear position transducers to support training for weightlifters performing the snatch. These commercially available devices provide valuable velocity data from the first pull, transition, and through the second pull, which all occur before the athlete rotating under the bar for the catch. Athletes benefit from this discussion given the need to maximize training repetitions before fatigue. Velocity data are useful in applying autoregulation principles before workouts and during training sessions. An individualized approach helps weightlifting coaches identify errors and avoid loss of velocity during key points in the lift. This includes determining each lifter's threshold velocities for successful lifts. Deviations from a successful lift/velocity profile (following a missed lift) help identify where errors occur or if fatigue is a factor. This is important to support technique in lifters who are not represented in the published studies. Examining velocity data in conjunction with video analysis provides information needed to prescribe auxiliary exercises or loads for pulling exercises to ensure that velocity loss is minimized. Velocity feedback helps lifters select loads for successful repetitions that produce a desired force profile and result in improved snatches contributing to higher totals during competition.		[Kozub, Francis M.; Walker, Ash] Univ North Carolina Pembroke, Pembroke, NC 28372 USA; [Kozub, Francis M.] Univ North Carolina Pembroke, Pembroke, NC 28372 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001543207500001	19	Article; Article		
J	Metzger, Riley; Hatfield, Disa; Dinyer-McNeely, Taylor; Dawes, Jay								The Hatfield Squat								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	4			490	493		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000899			AUG 2025	2025			[Metzger, Riley] Oklahoma Christian Univ, Edmond, OK USA; [Hatfield, Disa] Univ Rhode Isl, Dept Kinesiol, Kingston, RI USA; [Dinyer-McNeely, Taylor; Dawes, Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Dawes, Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544044000001	13	Article; Article		
J	Harry, John R.; Hite, Mia; Simms, Anton; Park, Sunny; Stewart, Michael; Barker, Leland A.								Using Position, Velocity, and Acceleration Relationships to Assess Exercise Specificity: A Simple Tool for the Strength Coach Toolbox								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	4			414	424		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000891			AUG 2025	2025	Training specificity using the dynamic correspondence approach is effective for athletic development because it emphasizes specific movement outcomes and influential strategies. Unfortunately, limited technological resources and formal training can restrict strength and conditioning or sport science professionals from applying research-driven data acquisition and interpretation approaches, creating a reliance on qualitative approaches to assess specificity. However, the dynamic correspondence form of specificity is rooted in mechanics, meaning coaches can often reframe their focus to the motions and accelerations occurring at the joint or whole body (i.e., center of mass) level. These motions can be observed for target exercises, which are the ones we hope to improve during testing or performance, and for the potential training exercises. From those observations, practitioners can create a profile using simple sketches and an understanding of the conceptual relationships among position, velocity, and acceleration (PVA). The article explains the conceptual PVA relationships and demonstrates the PVA profiling process for 2 exemplar scenarios. The simplicity of the PVA profile can provide an additional approach for identifying sport-specific exercises or even within-exercise qualities, such as time periods with high or low acceleration. Strength and conditioning professionals may benefit from supplementing current approaches to specificity determinations with PVA profiles.		[Harry, John R.; Hite, Mia; Simms, Anton; Park, Sunny; Stewart, Michael] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Barker, Leland A.] Creighton Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Prehlth Profess, Omaha, NE USA; [Harry, John R.] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001659491200001	41	Article; Article		
J	Keiner, M.; Kadlubowski, B.; Kushutani, R.; Stratek, J.; Brakmann, J.; Wirth, K.; Wagner, C-M; Zech, A.								From the lab to the field: Correlations between in-match running metrics and performance testing in elite male soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			198	206		10.1177/17479541251363838			FEB 2026	2026	This study aimed to investigate the relationship between standardized linear sprint test performance and in-match running metrics in elite soccer players. Forty-seven national-level male youth soccer players (aged 17-23 years) completed a standardized 30-m sprint test with 5- and 10-m split times. Their in-match running performance was then monitored across six games, recording total distance covered, sprinting activity, and peak running speed using wearable tracking devices. The findings indicated moderate to large correlations (r = -0.63 to -0.40) between sprint test performance and match-related peak speeds. Conversely, no substantial correlations were identified between sprint performance and metrics such as sprint count or total distance, likely indicative of the impact of tactics and match context. No significant variations in positional characteristics were identified. The findings provide support for the use of linear sprint testing, particularly over distances of 30 m, as a valid tool for the assessment of sprint capacity in the context of soccer. It is recommended that coaches undertake regular testing of sprint performance in order to monitor speed development and to adapt training programs accordingly.		[Keiner, M.] German Univ Hlth & Sport, Dept Training & Exercise Sci, Ismaning, Germany; [Kadlubowski, B.] VFL Bochum, Dept Rehabil & Athlet Training, Bochum, Germany; [Kushutani, R.] VFL Bochum, Dept Data & Performance Anal, Bochum, Germany; [Stratek, J.] DSC Arminia Bielefeld, Dept Athlet Training, Bielefeld, Germany; [Brakmann, J.] FC St Pauli, Dept Athlet Training, Hamburg, Germany; [Wirth, K.] Univ Appl Sci Wiener Neustadt, Dept Sport Sci, Wiener Neustadt, Austria; [Wagner, C-M] Leuphana Univ Luneburg, Inst Exercise Sport & Hlth, Luneburg, Germany; [Zech, A.] Univ Hamburg, Inst Human Movement Sci, Hamburg, Germany; [Keiner, M.] German Univ Hlth & Sport, Dept Training & Exercise Sci, Ismaning, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001539327900001	45	Article; Article		
J	Wilson, Robbie S.; Hunter, Andrew H.; Camata, Thiago, V; Foster, Charles S. P.; Sparkes, Gabriella R.; Santiago, Paulo R. P.; Smith, Nicholas M. A.								Dribbling and passing performances predict individual success in small-sided soccer games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			143	153		10.1177/17479541251346902			FEB 2026	2026	Our aim was to identify the underlying physical and technical skill traits associated with success in 3v3 small-sided soccer games. We quantified the sprinting, dribbling, and passing performances of 41 individual youth footballers from an elite club that plays in their local, state and national competitions. In addition, we quantified their performances across a series of 3 v 3 games (n = 12-26 matches per player), and by calculating each player's average net goals scored per game we provided a single metric of game success. We predicted that those individuals with better performances in the isolated technical tests would have higher success in the 3v3 matches. An individual's average team net goals was significantly predicted by the best fitting model (F-4,F-31 = 4.94; adjusted R-2 = 0.31; P = 0.003); and overall passing (t = 2.35; P = 0.025) and dribbling (t = 2.35; P = 0.03) were the only significant predictors of average individual net goals per game. Players with higher net goals per game were significantly more likely to have higher attacking (R-2 = 0.39; P < 0.0001) and defensive scores (R-2 = 0.21; P < 0.0001). Players with higher dribbling performances were also more likely to have higher attacking (R-2 = 0.46; P < 0.0001) and defensive scores (R-2 = 0.21; P = 0.003). Closed-skills that are statistical predictors of success under the complex conditions of match play should be a key element of talent identification protocols, especially when taken in conjunction with metrics of performances derived from small-sided games.		[Wilson, Robbie S.; Hunter, Andrew H.; Camata, Thiago, V; Sparkes, Gabriella R.; Smith, Nicholas M. A.] Univ Queensland, Sch Environm, St Lucia, Qld 4072, Australia; [Foster, Charles S. P.] Univ New South Wales, Sch Med Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Santiago, Paulo R. P.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Ribeirao Preto, Ribeirao Preto, Brazil; [Santiago, Paulo R. P.] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Med Sch, Ribeirao Preto, Brazil; [Wilson, Robbie S.] Univ Queensland, Sch Environm, St Lucia, Qld 4072, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001538859900001	33	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Phillip A.; Berger, Nicolas J. A.; Taylor, Jonathan M.								A survey exploring the programming practices of cycling coaches: How are intensity zones and intensity distribution models used?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			64	74		10.1177/17479541251362199			FEB 2026	2026	Models of training intensity distribution, such as polarised, pyramidal, and threshold, often have varying interpretations in the literature. Despite observational research into the practices of elite endurance athletes and a growing body of experimental research into the application of intensity models, insights into how and why coaches prescribe these models are lacking. Therefore, this study explored the practices and perceptions of cycling coaches concerning their use of fitness testing, intensity zone generation, and periodisation within their programming. 117 cycling coaches completed an online survey focused on their coaching background, use of testing and test protocols, training monitoring practices, and perspectives on training intensity distribution. We found that coaches mostly used functional threshold power testing to determine intensity zones, with the number used depending on the measure, e.g., power or heart rate. Respondents defined the polarised model as 80.8 +/- 4.6% (low), 3.3 +/- 6.1% (moderate), 17.4 +/- 4.7% (high), the threshold model as 44.5 +/- 16.7% (low), 44.0 +/- 13.8% (moderate), 13.2 +/- 7.6% (high), and the pyramidal model as 67.5 +/- 10.4% (low), 23.4 +/- 8.6% (moderate), 9.1 +/- 4.0% (high), by time in zone. Most respondents (94%) would change the intensity distribution depending on the phase of the season. While polarised was the most common model overall, moving from a pyramidal to a polarised model towards racing was the most common periodisation strategy. This study builds on observational research to provide a unique insight into the rationale behind coaches' intensity distribution model prescriptions and periodisation.		[Smith, Phillip A.; Berger, Nicolas J. A.; Taylor, Jonathan M.] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Olympia Bldg,Victoria Rd, Middlesbrough TS1 3BX, England; [Smith, Phillip A.] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Olympia Bldg,Victoria Rd, Middlesbrough TS1 3BX, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001538154600001	50	Article; Article		
J	Jackson, Aaron; Sheerin, Kelly; Frecklington, Mike; Carroll, Matthew R.								Footwear recommendations for Runners: Influencing factors and professional perspectives								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				65	71		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.07.010			SEP 2025	2025	Objective: Runners value footwear advice provided by experts. It is therefore essential to understand the nature of these recommendations. This study identified factors influencing individualised running footwear recommendations and measured the relative importance placed on footwear characteristics related to comfort and injury management. Design: Cross-sectional survey. Setting: Online. Participants: Podiatrists, physiotherapists, running coaches, and footwear retailers working in New Zealand. Main outcome measures: Quantitative survey questions covering footwear recommendation habits, and beliefs regarding the functional capacity of running footwear. Results: A total of 264 responses were received. Most participants identified comfort (96 %) and injury prevention (86 %) as important considerations in footwear selection. Retailers were more likely than other groups to emphasise the importance of arch height and foot motion (p < 0.001). Cushioning was rated the most influential characteristic for both comfort (99 %) and injury management (94 %). Most participants (91 %) thought medial posting influenced injury management, whilst shoe/upper width (95 %) and forefoot stiffness (93 %) were frequently linked to comfort. Significant differences emerged regarding beliefs about footwear functionality: 82 % of retailers believed that footwear could reduce pronation, compared to 55 % of podiatrists, 42 % of physiotherapists, and 29 % of coaches (p < 0.001). Conclusions: Podiatrists and retailers provide individualised footwear advice more frequently and confidently and are more likely to base their recommendations on reducing pronation than physiotherapists and coaches.		[Jackson, Aaron; Frecklington, Mike; Carroll, Matthew R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Sch Allied Hlth, Private Bag 92006, Auckland 1142, New Zealand; [Jackson, Aaron; Sheerin, Kelly] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Private Bag 92006, Auckland 1142, New Zealand; [Frecklington, Mike; Carroll, Matthew R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Hlth & Rehabil Res Inst, Sch Allied Hlth, Act Living & Rehabil Aotearoa New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Jackson, Aaron] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Sch Allied Hlth, Private Bag 92006, Auckland 1142, New Zealand								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001544000900001	42	Article; Article		
J	Anyadike-Danes, Kechi; Donath, Lars; Kiely, John								Do coaches believe they can predict athletes' responses to training? An international survey of coaches' beliefs regarding the predictability of training-induced adaptations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2377	2387		10.1177/17479541251361617			DEC 2025	2025	The training process, as posited by periodization, is depicted as based on predictable phenomena. This survey investigated how coaches perceive the predictability of athletes' responses to training. A sample of 106 coaches [age range: 18-65 + years, 31% 15 + years coaching experience, 58% worked in individual-events/sports and 32% worked with athletes competing at international level] from various countries participated in an online survey regarding the predictability of training responses. Few coaches (13%) indicated that they could 'Often' predict how much an athlete would improve over a training phase. When asked whether it was feasible to predict an athlete's response to either a single session, or a series of them, there was limited outright agreement (14% and 23%, respectively). The majority of coaches indicated that they made changes to the plan with many (46%) doing so frequently ('Always' and 'Often'). A key assumption within traditional training theory is that training outcomes are predictable. The current results suggest that coaches may not believe this to be the case. Instead they may be more consistent with modern conceptualizations of the adaptation process as a complex system evolving over time. If training theory is to remain relevant and aid coaches then it needs to engage with these problems and the realities coaches face.		[Anyadike-Danes, Kechi; Donath, Lars] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Intervent Res Exercise Training, Cologne, Germany; [Kiely, John] Univ Limerick, Fac Educ & Hlth Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Anyadike-Danes, Kechi] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Intervent Res Exercise Training, Cologne, Germany								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001539520500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Teng; Chen, Weimin; Xue, Shenyuan; Wu, Cisheng								Assessing the impact of female athlete endorsers on brands: a focus on Olympic athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	1			113	134		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2024-0315			FEB 4 2026	2026	PurposeThe development of women's sports has provided brands with innovative marketing opportunities; thus, brands want to collaborate with female athletes to portray a unique brand image and enhance their influence. This study investigates how the presence and proportion of female athlete endorsers impact brand influence and performance in China.Design/methodology/approachWeb crawling was conducted using specific keywords, such as athlete names and endorsements, on Sina Weibo, Baidu News, Baidu Search, and Baidu Index to obtain endorsement data for female athletes and data on the brands' Baidu search index. We then performed data matching to capture the brands' relevant financial data. Finally, the research model and hypotheses were tested using bootstrap mediation models.FindingsThe results revealed that the presence and proportion of female athlete endorsers positively affect brand awareness and significantly contribute to short- and long-term brand performance via increased brand awareness. However, while female athlete endorsers have a significant positive effect on a brand's market competitiveness, they do not influence brand performance via improvements in market competitiveness. This study further validates the impact of product type and major tournament cycle.Originality/valueBased on the celebrity endorsement, social role theory, and anti-stereotype, the study provides evidence of the effectiveness of female athlete endorsements using objective data.		[Liu, Teng; Chen, Weimin; Xue, Shenyuan; Wu, Cisheng] Hefei Univ Technol, Sch Management, Hefei, Peoples R China; [Wu, Cisheng] Hefei Univ Technol, Sch Management, Hefei, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001555601500001	52	Article; Article		
J	Maemura, Kaori; Ikeshita, Haruna; Miura, Ken; Nagahara, Ryu								Pelvic list strength could be important for speed, jump and agility in basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2067	2071		10.1177/17479541251361223			OCT 2025	2025	There has been no study investigating the relationship between sprint, jump and change-of-direction performances and pelvic list strength (the ability to produce force through maximal contralateral pelvic elevation while standing on a single leg), which is mainly generated by the gluteus medius and lumbosacral lateral flexor muscles, in basketball players. This study aimed to demonstrate the importance of pelvic list strength for speed, jump and agility in basketball. Seventeen female basketball players performed 20-m sprint, pelvic list strength test, Pro-agility test, Lane-agility test, counter movement jump, running jump and standing long jump in a randomized order in an indoor basketball gym. The maximal vertical ground reaction force exerted by maximal pelvic list was measured using a force plate as the pelvic list strength test value. The pelvic list strength values for the right and left sides were 4.51 +/- 0.53 N/kg and 4.54 +/- 0.82 N/kg, respectively, in the free condition and 4.56 +/- 0.92 N/kg and 4.67 +/- 0.98 N/kg, respectively, in the 2 kg ankle weighted condition. Significant correlations were found between the left pelvic list strength in the free condition and running jump height (r = 0.526) and between the weighted right pelvic list strength and 20-m sprint time (r = -0.618). Moreover, the weighted right and left pelvic list strengths were significantly correlated with Lane-agility time (r = -0.644 and -0.598). The current results demonstrate that the pelvic list strength may be important for 20-m sprint speed, running jump height and Lane-agility performances.		[Maemura, Kaori; Ikeshita, Haruna; Miura, Ken; Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, 1 Shiromizu Cho, Kanoya, Kagoshima 8912393, Japan; [Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, 1 Shiromizu Cho, Kanoya, Kagoshima 8912393, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001539512200001	18	Article; Article		
J	Gaviria Alzate, Samuel Jose Octavio; Valencia Sanchez, Wilder; Arias Arias, Elkin Alberto								Evaluating the tactical critical thinking program (TPCT) in elite underwater rugby: Effects on tactical efficiency index and critical thinking skills								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1958	1971		10.1177/17479541251362146			OCT 2025	2025	This study examined the effects of the Tactical Programme for Critical Thinking (TPCT) on tactical performance and critical thinking (CT) in elite male underwater rugby (UWR) players. Twenty-four experienced players (mean age: 29.38 +/- 7.11 years; playing experience: 10.86 +/- 4.82 years) were randomly assigned to either a control (STR) or experimental (TPCT) group. Both followed identical physical, technical, and tactical training standards. Over 20 sessions (two per week), the TPCT group trained through core tactical principles of UWR, integrating guided reflection and collaborative decision-making to promote critical engagement with in-game situations. Tactical performance was evaluated using RUSTAC (Rugby Underwater Tactical Assessment Criteria), a validated observational tool developed for UWR that codes behaviours during game sequences, including spatial occupation, decision timing, and role consistency in both offensive and defensive phases. CT skills were measured using the Critical Thinking Measurement Index. Results showed that TPCT participants significantly improved tactical performance (p = 0.017; d = 0.81), while the STR group showed no significant changes. Both groups experienced slight, non-significant improvements in CT. These findings suggest TPCT may be effective for enhancing tactical performance in elite UWR athletes, although its direct effect on measurable CT remains inconclusive. Further longitudinal studies with larger samples are encouraged to assess the sustained cognitive impact of TPCT and its integration into high-performance settings. Practically, coaches may consider incorporating structured reflection and tactical questioning into training to deepen understanding and support decision-making under pressure.Trial registration: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT06865287		[Gaviria Alzate, Samuel Jose Octavio] Tecnol Antioquia Inst Univ, Educ & Social Sci, Medellin, Colombia; [Valencia Sanchez, Wilder; Arias Arias, Elkin Alberto] Univ Antioquia, Inst Univ Educ Fis & Deporte, Medellin, Colombia; [Gaviria Alzate, Samuel Jose Octavio] Tecnol Antioquia Inst Univ, Educ & Social Sci, Medellin, Colombia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001539523800001	71	Article; Article		
J	Devlin, Eamon; Skea, Derek; Alder, David B.; Mitchell, Tom; Raya-Castellano, Pablo E.								'<i>Mundane, repetitive, and forgettable'</i>: A qualitative investigation of elite Gaelic football players' perceptions of half-time team talks								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			295	306		10.1177/17479541251361480			FEB 2026	2026	The processes underpinning half-time (HT) breaks in elite sport and their impact are an aspect of performance that has been under-researched in coaching literature. This study examines how players experience and interpret the HT interval in elite team sport. Specifically, it explored the perceptions and experiences of successful elite Gaelic Football players during HT. A qualitative design was employed, utilising semi-structured interviews with elite male Gaelic football players (N = 14) who had won the highest accolade in the sport. Interview recordings for each participant (Mduration = 71 min) were transcribed verbatim, and reflexive thematic analysis identified three higher-order themes. First, navigating poor HT standards to meet player needs. Players described HT talks as mundane, repetitive, and a missed opportunity to enhance second-half performance. Participants noted insufficient time for recovery and excessive tactical details, interspersed with coaches' emotional outbursts, which led to player disengagement. Second, players experiencing harmful feedback and player coping strategies. Participants highlighted the negative psychological impact of harsh feedback, citing diminished confidence and self-esteem, as well as potential trauma after recalled instances of humiliation. While some players used these HT coach criticisms as a motivator to increase second half performance, most preferred constructive, solution-focused communication. Finally, optimising HT communication. Players emphasised the importance of a calm and tactically focused environment supported by visual aids that incorporated storytelling when the specific HT situation required inspiration. The findings highlight elite team sport players' desire for more structured HT communication, higher player involvement, and an appropriate balance to tactical and motivational elements that enhance message clarity and talk impact, respectively. Thus, the above experiences regarding HT talks can serve coaches to understand players' preferences albeit these might not necessarily match players' needs during HT.		[Devlin, Eamon; Skea, Derek] Brunel Univ London, Dept Life Sci, London, England; [Alder, David B.; Mitchell, Tom] Leeds Beckett Univ, Res Ctr Sports Coaching, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Raya-Castellano, Pablo E.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Devlin, Eamon] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QQ, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001534462400001	86	Article; Article		
J	Kigoshi, Kiyonobu; Sugiura, Kiyomi; Mizushima, Jun								Relationship between coaching profiles and athletic performance among Japanese high school track and field coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2318	2331		10.1177/17479541251349510			DEC 2025	2025	The performance of athletes, their physical and psycho-social growth, are strongly influenced by their coaches. Previous studies on coaches' developmental profiles have focused on coaches training athletes with high-performance levels in their relevant age category. This study fills a gap in the literature by exploring the relationship between coaching profiles and competitive achievement across broad range of competitive levels among high school track and field coaches in Japan. Data collected by the Japan Association of Athletics Federations in 2020 via a questionnaire survey were used and analyzed using a multinomial logistic regression analysis. The analysis was based on 1120 valid responses from high school coaches. The results showed that track and field athletes coached by individuals with participation in a university track and field club, longer coaching experience, more coaching hours, and larger athlete rosters were more likely to reach higher competitive levels. These findings suggest practical coaching experience and athletic background are more influential than formal qualifications in shaping track and field athletes' performance. The results offer valuable insights for improving coach education programs and the coaching system in Japanese school sports.		[Kigoshi, Kiyonobu; Sugiura, Kiyomi] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Mizushima, Jun] Toyo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Kigoshi, Kiyonobu] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001533436900001	21	Article; Article		
J	Keating, Ryan; Kennedy, Rodney; Mccabe, Carla								Sex-specific relationships between sprint swim performance and tethered swimming in high-performance swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	4			532	553		10.1080/14763141.2025.2530593			APR 3 2026	2026	This study investigated the relationship between sprint swim performance and outputs derived from fully-tethered and semi-tethered swimming assessments in high-performance male and female swimmers. Twenty elite/highly trained swimmers (9 females, 11 males), specialising in 50-100 m events, completed all assessments in a randomised order in a 25 m pool. 50 m time-trial variables included total time, stroke rate, stroke length and swim velocity. A fully-tethered protocol involved 20 s of maximal swimming to determine peak and mean force, impulse and stroke rate. A semi-tethered protocol required swimmers sprinting 10 m with incremental loads (1, 3, 5 kg for females; 1, 5, 9 kg for males). Load-velocity and force-velocity profiling derived theoretical maximum velocity (V-0), theoretical maximal load/force (L-0/F-0), relative to body mass (rL(0)/rF(0)) and absolute and relative slope between the two variables. All semi-tethered variables except slopes showed large to extremely large correlations with 50 m total time (r = -0.618 to -0.955, p < 0.05) in males and females. In contrast, fully-tethered variables showed heterogeneous correlations, suggesting stroke- and sex-specific analyses may be more appropriate. These findings highlight semi-tethered profiling as an effective and ecologically valid tool for assessing sprint performance in high-performance swimmers and informing targeted training interventions.		[Keating, Ryan; Kennedy, Rodney; Mccabe, Carla] Ulster Univ, Fac Life & Hlth Sci, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Belfast, North Ireland; [Keating, Ryan] Ulster Univ, Fac Life & Hlth Sci, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Belfast, North Ireland								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001533326200001	63	Article; Article		
J	Carmichael, Mikaeli; Roberts, Alexandra; Perry, Kate; Clarke, Anthea								Tailoring support to the female athlete: A cross-sectional online survey to observe current practices in high performance sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			109	120		10.1177/17479541251361218			FEB 2026	2026	This study primarily aims to establish current practices to tailor support for female athletes, including menstrual cycle tracking, health screening, female-specific education, and other practical supports to address concerns related to menstruation. A secondary aim was to explore the relationships between the participant characteristics and practices implemented to tailor support for female athletes. One hundred and forty-one practitioners (i.e., coaches, athletic trainers, high performance managers) working with female athletes responded to an online survey between March and December 2023. Frequency analyses demonstrated that it is more common for practitioners to avoid discussing menstrual cycle tracking with athletes than to either encourage or require them to undertake tracking. Tracking was most often undertaken to establish and identify changes to athletes' usual menstrual characteristics, and to identify and manage menstrual symptoms. In terms of health screening, disordered eating and iron deficiency were screened for most commonly, while screening for pelvic floor dysfunction was least common. Female-specific nutrition, relative energy deficiency, and menstrual cycles were the topics most commonly included in female athlete-specific education targeted at athletes and practitioners. Further analysis revealed that respondents' tracking and education practices were closely associated. This study provides a snapshot into the practices that are currently implemented to tailor support to female athletes around their menstrual cycle.		[Carmichael, Mikaeli; Roberts, Alexandra; Perry, Kate; Clarke, Anthea] La Trobe Univ, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Sport & Exercise Sci, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Roberts, Alexandra] Queensland Acad Sport, Talent & Coaching, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Carmichael, Mikaeli] La Trobe Univ, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Sport & Exercise Sci, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001533569100001	51	Article; Article		
J	Arslan, Ersan; Chmura, Pawel; Soylu, Yusuf; Kilit, Bulent								Effects of two combined training protocols on the psychophysiological, performance and technical responses in young basketball players: Comparison of one vs. two changes of direction								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			329	340		10.1177/17479541251359990			FEB 2026	2026	This study compared the effects of combining small-sided basketball games (SSGs) with repeated sprint ability with one change of direction (RSAone) and repeated sprint ability with two changes of direction (RSAtwo) in young amateur basketball players. Twenty-four basketball players (average age 16.4 +/- 0.5 years) were randomly divided into either the SSGs + RSAone (n = 12) or SSGs + RSAtwo (n = 12) three times per week for five weeks. SSGs consisted of two 6-8 min bouts of 2- and 3-a-side with 2 min rest periods. The players in RSAone performed 3-4 sets of 5-7 times 15 m shuttle all-out sprints, while the players in RSAtwo performed 3-4 sets of 5-7 times 10 m shuttle all-out sprints. Pre- and post-intervention testing included a Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test level 1, 20 m sprint test, vertical and horizontal jump tests, repeated sprint ability test, Y-balance test, T-drill agility test with/without the ball and technical skills. The SSGs + RSAtwo group demonstrated higher improvement in 5 m sprint, repeated sprint ability, jumping and balance responses than the SSGs + RSAone (p <= 0.05, d values ranging from 1.32 to 4.73). Furthermore, the SSGs + RSAtwo group induced higher perceived exertion, internal training loading and physical enjoyment compared with the RSAone (p <= 0.05, d values ranging from 0.99 to 3.28). These findings showed that SSGs + RSAtwo is a more effective training program to increase young basketball players' sprint, repeated sprint, jumping and balance responses. Moreover, this training approach in youth basketball players may lead to better physical performance development while improving enjoyment.		[Arslan, Ersan; Soylu, Yusuf; Kilit, Bulent] Tokat Gaziosmanpasa Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokat, Turkiye; [Chmura, Pawel] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Individual & Team Sports, Wroclaw, Poland; [Chmura, Pawel] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Individual & Team Sports, Wroclaw, Poland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001533564500001	58	Article; Article		
J	Zheng, Jiawei; Xu, Bing; Xiong, Xinxin; Chen, Jian								Hip muscle strength in patients with chronic ankle instability: A systematic review and meta-analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				48	57		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.07.007			SEP 2025	2025	Objective: To determine whether chronic ankle instability (CAI) individuals exhibit hip muscle strength deficits compared to healthy people. Methods: A comprehensive search of five databases was conducted from inception to May 2025 according to PRISMA guidelines. Quality assessment of included studies was performed using the modified Downs and Black checklist, and meta-analysis was conducted using random-effects models with results reported as standardized mean differences (SMD). Results: Ten studies involving 548 participants (271 CAI, 277 healthy controls) were included. Individuals with CAI demonstrated significantly decreased isometric hip abduction (SMD: 0.56, P < 0.001), extension (SMD: 0.62, P = 0.003), and external rotation strength (SMD: 0.59, P = 0.005) compared to controls. No significant differences were found in isokinetic strength at 60 degrees/s. Sensitivity analysis showed unstable results for hip external rotation strength, while other outcomes remained stable. Conclusion: Individuals with CAI demonstrated significant deficits in isometric hip abduction and extension strength compared to healthy people. Hip muscle strength assessment should be incorporated into routine examination of CAI individuals.		[Zheng, Jiawei; Xu, Bing; Xiong, Xinxin; Chen, Jian] Wuhan Sports Univ, Engn Res Ctr Sports Hlth Intelligent Equipment Hub, Wuhan 430079, Peoples R China; [Chen, Jian] Wuhan Sports Univ, Engn Res Ctr Sports Hlth Intelligent Equipment Hub, Wuhan 430079, Peoples R China								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001538645900001	49	Article; Article		
J	Bilgic, Mert; Devrilmez, Erhan; Rynne, Steven; Ince, M. Levent; Guvenc, Alpay; Akpinar, Selcuk; Aktop, Abdurrahman; Cetin Ozdogan, Emel; Orhan, Ilkay; Ozdemir, Ozgur; Ozkaya, Y. Gul; Toktas, Nese								What do sports coaches actually know? Development and validation of physical and technical common content knowledge test packs								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2388	2396		10.1177/17479541251358190			DEC 2025	2025	While it is widely accepted that coach knowledge plays a foundational role in coaching effectiveness, there are few validated tools to determine pre- and- in-service coaches' content knowledge (CK) levels. Thus, the aim of the present study was to develop and validate two CK test packs for developing physical and technical competence in athletes. Using convenience sampling, 2457 pre-service coaches participated in this study voluntarily. Several steps were followed for development of nine CK tests including facilitating panels, and processes for establishing content and face validities. Winstep was used to conduct Rasch analyses. Content validity was established, and the infit and outfit statistics confirmed that, with minor exceptions, all of the tests met the standards as the difficulties of questions matched respondents' knowledge levels. The item and person separation indices showed excellent and acceptable confidence levels in item difficulties and respondents, respectively. The Wright map further demonstrated that all tests had a good range of difficulty levels to discriminate different knowledge levels. Data generated through the use of these CK test packs can be used to understand the actual knowledge levels of coaches, to monitor their improvements and to inform the development of educational programs.		[Bilgic, Mert; Guvenc, Alpay; Aktop, Abdurrahman; Cetin Ozdogan, Emel; Ozkaya, Y. Gul; Toktas, Nese] Akdeniz Univ, Dept Coaching Educ, Antalya, Turkiye; [Bilgic, Mert; Rynne, Steven] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Devrilmez, Erhan] Karamanoglu Mehmetbey Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Karaman, Turkiye; [Ince, M. Levent] Middle East Tech Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Ankara, Turkiye; [Akpinar, Selcuk] Nevsehir Haci Bektas Veli Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Nevsehir, Turkiye; [Orhan, Ilkay] Akdeniz Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Antalya, Turkiye; [Ozdemir, Ozgur] Akdeniz Univ, Dept Recreat, Antalya, Turkiye; [Bilgic, Mert] Akdeniz Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Off 303,Dumlupinar Blvd Campus, TR-07058 Antalya, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001530953300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Wileman, Taylor M.; Hackett, Daniel A.; McKay, Marnee J.; Psarakis, Michael; Fornusek, Che								Physical and technical demands in All Abilities Touch Football: Preliminary insights for sport development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			307	320		10.1177/17479541251357946			FEB 2026	2026	All Abilities Touch Football (AATF) is a modified version of touch football for players with intellectual and/or physical impairments. Its rapid growth has revealed structural limitations, highlighting the need to move beyond rule modifications and a two-tiered competition system to better accommodate players' diverse abilities. This study assessed the physical and technical demands of AATF players and explored associations with functional and field-based performance measures. Twenty-one players participated in four matches over two days at the National Touch League competition. Significant differences were observed between Tier 1 and Tier 2 players for maximum speed (p = 0.042), accelerations (p = 0.041), distance in the jogging zone (p = 0.010), dummy half pickups (p = 0.002), and successful passes (p = 0.018). A subgroup of 11 players completed assessments measuring flexibility, balance, coordination, strength, power, speed, change of direction speed (CODS) and endurance, showing strong associations between match maximum speed and power (r = 0.77, p = 0.006), speed (r(s) = 0.90, p < 0.001), and CODS (r(s) = 0.82, p = 0.002). These findings highlight performance differences within and across tiers and suggest the importance of power, speed and CODS in AATF performance, offering preliminary insights that may guide the future development of the sport.		[Wileman, Taylor M.; Hackett, Daniel A.; McKay, Marnee J.; Fornusek, Che] Univ Sydney, Sch Hlth Sci, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Psarakis, Michael] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Wileman, Taylor M.] Univ Sydney, Sch Hlth Sci, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001530861100001	35	Article; Article		
J	de Oliveira, Julia Ribeiro; Werneck, Francisco Zacaron; de Oliveira, Helder Zimmermann; Coelho, Emerson Filipino; Bara Filho, Mauricio Gattas								Multidimensional indicators of sporting talent in young male volleyball athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			359	370		10.1177/17479541251359622			FEB 2026	2026	Sporting talent in volleyball is multidimensional and the identification process involves a battery of tests and the coach's subjective evaluation. However, there is a lack of studies that evaluated talent in volleyball in a multidimensional way, including the coach's evaluation. The aims was to compare multidimensional indicators of sporting talent in volleyball among athletes from youth categories and young adult elite males and investigate differences in relation to sporting potential, according to the subjective evaluation of the coach. The study involved 64 Brazilian male volleyball athletes and were divided by age groups: U-15, U-17, U-19 and young adults; and according to the sporting potential assessed by the coach: high and low potential. Anthropometric, physical-motor, psychological, environmental indicators, relative age effect, and sporting potential were evaluated. There was a significant difference between age groups for all anthropometric and physical-motor variables, except in the sum of skinfolds and flexibility. Differences were also observed in the motivational orientation, family support, age of beginning of practice and sporting potential variables. Regarding the evaluation of the coach, the high potential presented higher values for body size and strength of the upper limbs in relation to the low potential. Thus, according to the increasing age, male volleyball athletes become increasingly taller, with better physical-motor abilities, greater goal orientation and better evaluation of sporting potential performed by the coach. When discriminating the potential of athletes, coaches seem to attribute more weight to anthropometric and physical-motor aspects than other factors.		[de Oliveira, Julia Ribeiro; Werneck, Francisco Zacaron; Coelho, Emerson Filipino; Bara Filho, Mauricio Gattas] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Jose Lourenco Kelmer St, BR-36036330 Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Helder Zimmermann] Univ Salgado de Oliveira, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Julia Ribeiro] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Jose Lourenco Kelmer St, BR-36036330 Juiz De Fora, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001530220100001	66	Article; Article		
J	Gencoglu, Celal; Gumus, Hikmet								Disciplinary strategies or reactive measures? An analysis of coach sanctions in elite Danish handball leagues								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2309	2317		10.1177/17479541251360847			DEC 2025	2025	This study analyzed coach sanctions in elite Danish handball matches across seven seasons (2017-2024), focusing on differences by league, gender, match period, and situational context. A total of 2978 matches and 398,054 events were collected from official match analyses. Sanctions were categorized by type (yellow card, 2-min suspension, blue card) and compared using chi-square tests and Spearman correlations. A two-minute retrospective event analysis was performed to identify triggers preceding coach sanctions using a custom Python code. The results showed that sanctions were more frequent in the Men's League than in the Women's League and occurred predominantly in the second half of matches. Positive correlations between coach and player sanctions were consistently stronger in the Women's League than in the Men's League (variable across seasons). Significant events such as goals, saved shots, technical mistakes, and turnovers were commonly recorded immediately before the coach's sanctions. Findings indicate that coach sanctions serve regulatory and strategic functions, with gender differences suggesting divergent disciplinary and management styles. These results highlight the role of situational pressure in triggering coach sanctions and suggest that coaching strategies should consider managing disciplinary responses under competitive stress.		[Gencoglu, Celal; Gumus, Hikmet] Dokuz Eylul Univ, Necat Hepkon Fac Sport Sci, Izmir, Turkiye; [Gencoglu, Celal] Dokuz Eylul Univ, Necat Hepkon Fac Sport Sci, Izmir, Turkiye								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001530212300001	24	Article; Article		
J	Mazurek, Caitlin M.; Koch, Jordan R.; Renaud, Philippe J.; Kolopenuk, Jessica A.								Implementing biomechanical analyses for Indigenous athlete development: Lessons from applying the Knowledge-to-Action framework with a remote First Nation hockey team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			371	377		10.1177/17479541251356807			FEB 2026	2026	Biomechanical analyses can greatly enhance athlete development by enabling coaches to create tailored training programs for individual athletes and teams. Knowledge Translation (KT)-the process of developing and implementing research-facilitates the integration of these programs through community partnerships. This paper explores how KT of emerging sports science technologies can support Indigenous athletes and shares lessons from applying the Knowledge-to-Action (KTA) framework with coaches from a remote First Nation hockey team in northern Qu & eacute;bec, Canada. Involving ten U18 male athletes and four coaches, the KTA process assisted in creating an athlete testing program that included analyses of skating and shooting techniques. While effective, the KTA process highlighted the need for additional tools to navigate complex dynamics in Indigenous research translation contexts. We recommend that researchers consider frameworks like Indigenous Science, Technology, and Society (Indigenous STS), which prioritize Indigenous expertise and governance in research collaborations, ensuring that Indigenous peoples can develop and use sciences and technologies on their own terms.		[Mazurek, Caitlin M.; Koch, Jordan R.; Renaud, Philippe J.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 475 Ave Pins O, Montreal, PQ H2W 1S4, Canada; [Kolopenuk, Jessica A.] Univ Alberta, Dept Family Med, Edmonton, AB T6G 2T4, Canada; [Mazurek, Caitlin M.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 475 Ave Pins O, Montreal, PQ H2W 1S4, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001536561700001	28	Article; Article		
J	Srygler, Emily C.; Wenner, Zachary O.; Fett, Addison E.; Hernandez, Mayrena, I; Renner, Madison N.; Adler, Stephanie N.; Bell, David R.								Collegiate coaches' perceptions of youth sport specialization's impact on athlete sport performance: A qualitative study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2397	2408		10.1177/17479541251358569			DEC 2025	2025	Sport specialization is of increasing prevalence and concern in the realm of youth sports. Collegiate coaches are uniquely positioned as gatekeepers to funds and opportunities for young athletes to continue their athletic careers in the collegiate setting. The purpose of this study was to explore collegiate coaches' perceptions and beliefs of how youth sport specialization impacts an athlete's sport performance. This study included 13 head and assistant coaches currently working in collegiate athletics. Coaches came from a variety of sport and experience backgrounds. This study was conducted using an interpretive phenomenological analysis and a consensual qualitative research framework. Data were collected using semi-structured interviews and analyzed using a multi-analyst team. Themes and subthemes were generated using a multi-step data analysis and coding process. Three themes and subsequent subthemes were identified: athlete potential, physical impacts on the athlete, and athlete's relationship to sport. Each theme had corresponding subthemes highlighting positive and negative aspects of early specialization. Overall, coaches recognized the negative effects of youth sport specialization on an athlete's sport performance, but viewed youth sport specialization as a successful path for athletes to find athletic success.		[Srygler, Emily C.; Wenner, Zachary O.; Fett, Addison E.; Renner, Madison N.; Adler, Stephanie N.; Bell, David R.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Dept Kinesiol, 1300 Univ Ave,346 Bardeen, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Hernandez, Mayrena, I] Sam Houston State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Huntsville, TX USA; [Srygler, Emily C.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Dept Kinesiol, 1300 Univ Ave,346 Bardeen, Madison, WI 53706 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001530372400001	44	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Kyoungjin; Kwon, Sungho; Lee, Doheung								The effects of peer-initiated motivational climate perceived by youth soccer players on fear of failure and flow state								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251357285				2025	This study investigated the structural relationships among the peer-initiated motivational climate, the fear of failure (FF), and the flow state as perceived by youth soccer players. A total of 347 youth soccer players aged 12-18, registered with the Korea Football Association, participated in the study. Data were analyzed using SPSS 26.0 and Mplus 8.5. Results revealed that the peer-initiated task-involving climate positively predicted the flow state, but was not significantly associated with the FF. In contrast, the ego-involving climate positively predicted both the FF and the flow state, while the FF negatively predicted the flow state. The indirect effect of the task-involving climate on flow state through the FF was non-significant, whereas the ego-involving climate demonstrated a significant negative indirect effect on the flow state, resulting in a suppression effect. These findings highlight the important role of motivational climate initiated by peers in shaping youth athletes' psychological optimal experiences. Practitioners working with youth players should consider the influence of peers in creating a learning environment, which could reduce the FF and enhance the flow state.		[Yang, Kyoungjin; Kwon, Sungho; Lee, Doheung] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea; [Kwon, Sungho] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul, South Korea								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001528823400001	68	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Gjaka, Masar; Tishukaj, Faton; Tschan, Harald; Feka, Kaltrina; Tessitore, Antonio								The influence of match-induced fatigue on sprint ability and technique of change of direction in soccer players: A pilot study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	4			2258	2266		10.1177/17479541251357579			AUG 2026	2026	We investigated the acute fatiguing effects of sprint interval training (SIT) on change of direction performance in male and female soccer players. A T-test was performed once before (PRE) and twice following (POST 1 and POST 2) the completion of four sets of 4 s cycle ergometer sprints protocol. The sprint intervals were separated by 25 s active recovery. POST 1 was performed approximately 25 s following the final cycle sprint and POST 2 began two minutes after completing POST 1. Repeated measures ANOVA and Bonferroni post hoc tests were used to determine any significant differences in the time to complete the T-tests. The average power output drop measured during cycle SIT was 30.7 +/- 9%. Time to complete the T-test significantly differed among the three tests (PRE: 10.46 +/- .17 s; POST 1: 11.67 +/- .33 s; POST 2: 10.96 +/- .19 s; F (2, 54) = 6.174, p = .003). Post hoc test revealed an increase in time from PRE to POST 1 (p = .002) but no difference between PRE and POST 2 (p = .473). Nine participants (48%) were unable to complete POST 1 without errors; however, ten (52%) participants recovered enough to perform POST 1 without error. These results show that acute fatigue from SIT impairs change of direction performance, but performance can be recovered within a few minutes of rest. Coaches can combine fatigue inducing drills and change of direction training into same sessions with the right rest interval between the training modes.		[Gjaka, Masar] Univ Business & Technol, Dept Sport & Movement Sci, Pristina, Kosovo; [Tishukaj, Faton] Univ Pristina, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, George Bush St 31, Pristina 10000, Kosovo; [Tschan, Harald] Univ Vienna, Dept Sport & Human Movement Sci, Vienna, Austria; [Feka, Kaltrina] Universum Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Pristina, Kosovo; [Feka, Kaltrina] Minist Culture Youth & Sports, Dept Sport, Pristina, Kosovo; [Tessitore, Antonio] Univ Rome Foro Italico, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Rome, Italy; [Tishukaj, Faton] Univ Pristina, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, George Bush St 31, Pristina 10000, Kosovo								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001529131900001	68	Article; Article		
J	Li, Yumeng; Koldenhoven, Rachel M.; Jiwan, Nigel C.; Zhan, Jieyun; Liu, Ting								Automated rowing event assignment: a machine learning approach								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3557	3569		10.1080/14763141.2025.2528885			DEC 2 2025	2025	The purpose of the study was to assign rowers to different rowing events based on their demographics and rowing kinematics using machine learning models. A total of 55 elite athletes from the Chinese National Rowing Team participated, each instructed to row on a rowing ergometer for one minute at three stroke rates: 18, 26, and 32 strokes/min. Trunk and upper arm 3D kinematics were collected using an inertia measurement unit system at a sampling rate of 100 Hz. Trunk and upper arm segmental and joint range of motion were generated. Trunk segments and upper arm motion coordination were analysed using the vector coding method. Six supervised machine learning models were trained using the collected demographics and kinematic data to classify rowers' groups (i.e. coxed eight and single/pair event group). The machine learning models successfully classified rowers' groups, with the top-performing models (decision tree, extreme gradient boosting, and random forest) achieving high classification performance (accurate rate = 0.89-0.93). The rowing event assignment automated by machine learning may help coaches make more informed and objective decisions. By minimising subjective biases, this approach enhances the accuracy and fairness of athlete selection processes, thereby potentially optimising team composition and performance outcomes.		[Li, Yumeng; Koldenhoven, Rachel M.; Zhan, Jieyun] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Jiwan, Nigel C.] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX USA; [Liu, Ting] Texas A&M Univ San Antonio, Coll Grad Studies, San Antonio, TX USA; [Li, Yumeng] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001526522500001	21	Article; Article		
J	Tronstad, Martin; Aspvik, Nils Petter; Abrahamsen, Frank; Saether, Stig Arve								"It is like an endless guilt trip" - Greco-Roman wrestlers' willingness to train and compete with pain and/or injuries								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			428	436		10.1177/17479541251350672			FEB 2026	2026	The aim of this study was to examine factors that impact wrestlers' decision-making related to their willingness to train and compete with pain and/or injuries. Five Greco-Roman male wrestlers from Norway, with a mean age of 27.0 (SD = 2.55), were interviewed about their decision-making process when dealing with pain and/or injury. The foundation for the study was based on a decision-based framework for presenteeism and absenteeism in athletes outlined by Mayer and Thiel.(Mayer J, Giel KE, Malcolm D, et al. Compete or rest? Willingness to compete hurt among adolescent elite athletes. Psychol Sport Exerc 2018; 35: 143-150.) The thematic analysis identified three themes: 1) personal self-expectations, 2) the wrestling culture, and 3) post career health. Overall, all the wrestlers expressed a high degree of willingness to risk their bodies physically to achieve top results in competitions. A strong desire to compete, athletic identity, a normalized pain culture, and fear of long-term consequences are the main factors impacting the wrestler's choice to train or compete with pain and/or injury.		[Tronstad, Martin; Aspvik, Nils Petter; Saether, Stig Arve] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol NTNU, Dept Sociol & Polit Sci, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway; [Abrahamsen, Frank] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Sport & Social Sci, Oslo, Norway; [Saether, Stig Arve] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol NTNU, Dept Sociol & Polit Sci, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001527897600001	47	Article; Article		
J	Quan, Wenjing; Zhou, Huiyu; Xu, Datao; Gu, Yaodong								Effect of taping on multi-segmental foot biomechanical mechanics during the running in chronic ankle instability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3449	3472		10.1080/14763141.2025.2526694			DEC 2 2025	2025	The study aimed to investigate the effects of different lengths of kinesiology tape (KT) on multi-segment foot biomechanical variables in individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Kinematic and kinetic data were collected using a ten-camera Vicon motion capture system (200 Hz) and a force plate (1000 Hz). Twenty participants with CAI ran under three different conditions: no KT (NT), short KT (ST), and long KT (LT). A five-segment foot model was used, which has 8 degrees of freedom. The results indicated that CAI individuals running with KT might decrease the subtalar eversion angle and Chopart oblique angle during the stance phase. Differences in joint moments were observed at the ankle and subtalar joints during the running stance phase, with smaller ankle plantarflexion and inversion subtalar joint moments in the LT condition compared to the NT and ST conditions. Furthermore, LT was found to decrease the ankle ligament force and increased the force of lateral gastrocnemius muscle, soleus, peroneus longus, and peroneus brevis in individuals with CAI during the stance phase. These findings suggest that KT might reduce ankle ligament force and the risk of ankle sprains in individuals with CAI during running.		[Quan, Wenjing; Zhou, Huiyu; Xu, Datao; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001527407600001	66	Article; Article		
J	Carter, Joshua; Chen, X.; Cazzola, D.; Trewartha, G.; Preatoni, E.								Estimation of lower limb joint moments using consumer realistic wearable sensor locations and deep learning - finding the balance between accuracy and consumer viability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	4			516	531		10.1080/14763141.2025.2526702			APR 3 2026	2026	We used raw data from wearable sensors in consumer-realistic locations (replicating watch, arm phone strap, chest strap, etc.) to estimate lower-limb sagittal-plane joint moments during treadmill running and assessed the effect of a reduced number of sensor locations on estimation accuracy. Fifty mixed-ability runners (25 men and 25 women) ran on a treadmill at a range of speeds and gradients. Their data was used to train Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) models in a supervised fashion. Estimation accuracy was evaluated by comparing model outputs against the criterion signals, calculated from marker-based kinematics and instrumented treadmill kinetics via inverse dynamics. The model that utilised data from all sensor locations achieved the lowest estimation error with a mean relative Root Mean Squared Error (rRMSE) of 12.1%, 9.0%, and 6.7% at the hip, knee, and ankle, respectively. Reducing data input to fewer sensors did not greatly compromise estimation accuracy. For example, a wrist-foot sensor combination only increased estimation error by 0.8% at the hip, and 1.0% at the knee and ankle joints. This work contributes to the development of a field-oriented tool that can provide runners with insight into their joint-level net moment contributions whilst leveraging data from their possible existing wearable sensor locations.		[Carter, Joshua; Cazzola, D.; Preatoni, E.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Chen, X.] Univ Bath, Dept Comp Sci, Bath, England; [Trewartha, G.] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Middlesbrough, England; [Carter, Joshua] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001524898900001	25	Article; Article		
J	Leite, Isaura; Mochizuki, Luis; Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo; Carvalho, Lurdes Avila; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Goethel, Marcio; Conceicao, Filipe								Do partners influence each other during assisted flights from acrobatic gymnastics?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3542	3556		10.1080/14763141.2025.2527346			DEC 2 2025	2025	In Acrobatic Gymnastics, base and top gymnasts collaborate to perform partner-assisted flight. According to the literature, individuals engaged in pair/group tasks influence each other's movements to achieve a common goal. This study investigates similarity, time delay and relationship between base and top movements. It also examines distinct time frames-the motion until take-off versus until the end of the rotation, task difficulty and experience level. Eleven pairs performed two pair tasks in laboratory settings and were divided into less and more experienced groups. Cross-correlation (to assess movement similarity and time delay) and Granger causality (to evaluate mutual influence) were applied to the resultant centre of mass position of both gymnasts. The effects of time frame, task difficulty and experience level were analysed. Cross-correlation results show very high correlation coefficients (.98), with no effects from experience and task difficulty. Granger causality results indicate variations in predictive behaviour across conditions, particularly concerning the time frame and the effect of the task for the top gymnast, but did not provide evidence of causality. In conclusion, gymnasts perform highly similar and synchronised motion, with no clear evidence of direct influence, regardless of task difficulty or experience level.		[Leite, Isaura; Carvalho, Lurdes Avila; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Goethel, Marcio; Conceicao, Filipe] Univ Porto, Fac Sports, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Leite, Isaura; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Goethel, Marcio; Conceicao, Filipe] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab Labiomep, Porto, Portugal; [Mochizuki, Luis] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo] Univ Pablo De Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Leite, Isaura] Univ Porto, Fac Sports, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Leite, Isaura] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab Labiomep, Porto, Portugal								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001525977600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Decleve, Philippe; Nourissat, Geoffroy; Neyens, Damien; Cools, Ann; Borms, Dorien								Prevalence and injury profiles for recreational padel players: A cross-sectional survey-based study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				8	14		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.07.002			SEP 2025	2025	Objective: To describe the injury rate and profiles of injuries sustained by recreational padel players, reporting time-loss and identifying player-and padel-related factors associated. Design: Cross-sectional survey-based retrospective study. Setting: Belgian padel clubs. Participants: Recreational adult padel players. Main outcome measures: Players completed a questionnaire on lifestyle factors, sports-playing practices, injuries sustained over the year and time to recovery. Injury profiles by gender and location are described. Univariate and multivariate analyses identified factors associated with an increased likelihood of injury. Results: In total, 457 players (66.1 % men) participated, with a median age of 42 years. Overall, 167 players (36.5 %) [95 %CI 32.3; 41.1] sustained 185 injuries over the previous year with an injury rate of 2.81/1000 h playing. Median time to recovery was 30 days (IQR 15-60). Lower limb injuries were most common (53.5 %). Independent factors associated with injuries were age over 30 years, insomnia, less padel-playing experience, playing position on the right, carrying out a warm-up, using an overgrip and not playing another racket sport. Conclusions: The incidence and profiles of padel injuries are similar to those observed in other studies. Female gender was not associated with higher injury risk. Other player-and padel-associated factors require further investigation to determine causality.		[Neyens, Damien] Haute Ecole Leonard Vinci, Dept Phys Therapy, Ave Mounier 84, B-1200 Brussels, Belgium; [Decleve, Philippe] SFMKS LAB, 14 rue Noisy, F-95270 Asnieres sur oise, France; [Nourissat, Geoffroy] Ramsay Sante, Clin Maussins Nollet, rue Romainville, F-75019 Paris, France; [Cools, Ann; Borms, Dorien] Univ Ghent, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Campus UZ Gent,Corneel Heymanslaan 10,B3,entrance, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium; [Decleve, Philippe] Haute Ecole Leonard Vinci, Ave E Mounier 84, B-1200 Woluwe Saint Lambert, Belgium								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001538511100001	41	Article; Article		
J	Foo, Wee Lun; Tester, Emma; Markakis, Panos; Sabou, Vlad; Close, Graeme L.; McCubbin, Alan J.; Morton, James P.								Should sports scientists and coaches provide sodium supplementation to professional soccer players? Insights from English premier league players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2365	2376		10.1177/17479541251353603			DEC 2025	2025	We assessed the fluid balance, whole body sweat rate (WBSR) and sweat sodium concentration ([Na+](sweat)) of English Premier League (EPL) soccer players during pre-season training and used predictive modelling to determine theoretical changes in plasma sodium concentration ([Na+]plasma). Players (25 +/- 4 years, 1.83 +/- 0.06 m, 81.1 +/- 7.4 kg) were monitored during two training sessions (n = 14, Session 1; n = 17, Session 2) in temperate climates (19-23 degrees C, 45-67% relative humidity). Training load was monitored via global positioning system, sweat loss was assessed from changes in body mass (BM) after correcting for fluid intake, and [Na+]sweat was measured using absorbent patches. Mean BM loss was 1.08 +/- 0.72% and 1.28 +/- 0.65%, with sweat losses of 1.67 +/- 0.49 L and 1.88 +/- 0.59 L in Sessions 1 and 2, respectively. Mean [Na+](sweat) was 51.3 +/- 14.6 mmol<middle dot>L-1 (Session 1) and 39.9 +/- 15.3 mmol<middle dot>L-1 (Session 2), with total sodium losses of 1929 +/- 771 mg and 1730 +/- 813 mg, respectively. Predictive modelling indicated 4/14 (similar to 29%) players in Session 1, and 1/17 (similar to 6%) players in Session 2, would have mildly reduced [Na+]plasma following training (all <2 mmol<middle dot>L-1), due to either near-complete fluid replacement or high [Na+](sweat). Although substantial interindividual variations were observed in fluid and sodium balance among players, modelling indicates that Na+ supplementation is unnecessary for soccer players during training in a temperate climate. Measuring [Na+](sweat) is therefore unlikely to inform practical recommendations under these conditions.		[Foo, Wee Lun; Close, Graeme L.; Morton, James P.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci RISES, Byrom St, Liverpool L3 3AF, England; [Foo, Wee Lun; Tester, Emma; Markakis, Panos] Tottenham Hotspur Football Club, Enfield, London, England; [Sabou, Vlad; Morton, James P.] Sci Sport PLC, Farringdon, London, England; [McCubbin, Alan J.] Monash Univ, Dept Nutr Dietet & Food, Notting Hill, Vic, Australia; [Morton, James P.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci RISES, Byrom St, Liverpool L3 3AF, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001525044800001	51	Article; Article		
J	Paterno, Mark, V; Ithurburn, Matthew P.; Thomas, Staci; Zwolski, Christin M.; Schmitt, Laura C.								Quadriceps femoris strength deficits early in rehabilitation after ACL reconstruction identify risk of future contralateral ACL injury following return to sport in young athletes: A Preliminary analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				75				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.07.001			SEP 2025	2025	Objective To test the relationship between quadriceps femoris (QF) strength 3 months after ACLR and long-term outcomes after ACLR. Design Prospective, case-cohort. Setting Laboratory. Participants 51 (mean age:15.6 +/- 2.2 yrs) athletes after ACLR. Main outcome measures 1) "Early" (13.7 +/- 2.1 wks) post-ACLR testing included an isokinetic QF strength assessment. 2) At medical clearance to RTS (8.4 +/- 1.6 months), isokinetic QF strength, hop testing, and patient-reported outcome data were collected. Associations between early QF strength and RTS measures, as well as 2nd ACL injury in the 36 months after RTS were assessed. Results 20 participants (39 %) sustained a 2nd ACL injury after RTS. Early QF strength limb symmetry (LSI) was moderately correlated with measures at RTS clearance (p < 0.05). Participants who failed to achieve >= 80 % QF LSI at the early testing session (23/51; 45.1 %) had 4 times higher odds (OR = 4.4; 95 %CI:1.0-19.2; p = 0.04) of sustaining a contralateral 2nd ACL injury in the 36 months following RTS clearance. Conclusion Early QF LSI positively associates with RTS measures. Early QF strength symmetry <80 % was associated with increased risk of contralateral ACL injury after RTS. Greater QF strength deficits early in rehabilitation may be a biomarker of poor short- and long-term outcomes after ACLR.		[Paterno, Mark, V; Zwolski, Christin M.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Div Occupat Therapy & Phys Therapy, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Paterno, Mark, V; Thomas, Staci; Zwolski, Christin M.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Dept Pediat, Div Sports Med, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Paterno, Mark, V; Zwolski, Christin M.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Div Patient Serv Res, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Paterno, Mark, V; Zwolski, Christin M.] Univ Cincinnati, Coll Med, Dept Pediat, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Ithurburn, Matthew P.] Alabama Sports Med Inst, Birmingham, AL USA; [Schmitt, Laura C.] Ohio State Univ, Sports Med Res Inst, Columbus, OH USA; [Schmitt, Laura C.] Ohio State Univ, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Columbus, OH USA; [Paterno, Mark, V] 3333 Burnet Ave MLC 10001, Cincinnati, OH 45209 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001536431700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Korf, Jesse; Johnston, Kathryn; Wang, Yiru; Baker, Joseph								Best of the best: A cohort study of race performance characteristics of eminent endurance cyclists								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2080	2092		10.1177/17479541251356012			OCT 2025	2025	The characteristics of those who advance the frontiers of human capabilities have fascinated scientists for centuries. Studying those who operate at, and advance, the edges of human performance may hold lessons that could benefit athlete development for all ages and stages of competition. To help contribute to this research area, the present study explored race performance characteristics of the world's best endurance cyclists. All race results listed on the Union Cyclisme International database for athletes between the years 2010-2024 (N = 5,168,668 total race observations; N = 107,024 unique athletes [21.12% women and 78.88% men]) were considered. Basic descriptive statistics (e.g., gender, location, confederation, and discipline) were used to describe 'eminent' athletes. This eminent sample was further explored relative to their discipline status (i.e., those who race in one discipline, or multiple) and transition patterns. Findings indicate subtle differences between groups in terms of ages to milestones, duration between accomplishing milestones, and transition patterns.		[Korf, Jesse] York Univ, Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Johnston, Kathryn; Wang, Yiru; Baker, Joseph] Univ Toronto, Tanenbaum Inst Sci Sport Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Johnston, Kathryn] Univ Toronto, Tanenbaum Inst Sci Sport Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001524723800001	58	Article; Article		
J	Yoshida, Takuya; Zushi, Amane; Kawahara, Fusako; Tai, Kaede; Ono, Kyoya; Takayanagi, Kohei; Hirashima, Yusuke; Tanigawa, Satoru								Relationship between agility performance and rebound jump performance or mechanics during takeoff								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			463	471		10.1177/17479541251356038			FEB 2026	2026	This study aimed to clarify the relationship between agility performance and rebound jump (RJ) performance and mechanics during takeoff. Seventeen female university soccer athletes (age: 20.0 +/- 1.1 years; height: 163.5 +/- 6.0 cm; mass: 57.75 +/- 4.3 kg) participated in the study. They performed a 20 m sprint test, a change of direction (COD) test conducted both with (agility test) and without decision-making, and RJ tests. Performance variables from each test were recorded, and additionally, the kinematic and kinetic variables of the three lower limb joints during RJ takeoff were analyzed. Significant positive correlations were found between COD time or agility time and RJ-index (jump height/contact time) as well as jump height, whereas a correlation with contact time was observed only in agility time. Furthermore, during RJ takeoff, several mechanical variables including ankle joint eccentric and concentric torque, negative power, hip joint extension torque, eccentric and concentric torque, positive power, and positive work were significantly correlated with COD time and agility time. Additionally, agility time exhibited a significant correlation with knee joint flexion and mean eccentric extension torque. These findings suggest that agility test performance is influenced not only by RJ-index and jump height but also by contact time and eccentric force exertion in the three lower limb joints during RJ takeoff.		[Yoshida, Takuya; Zushi, Amane] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Zushi, Amane] Tsuru Univ, Dept Teacher Educ Coaching, Yamanashi, Japan; [Kawahara, Fusako] Rikkyo Univ, Dept Sport & Wellness, Saitama, Japan; [Tai, Kaede; Takayanagi, Kohei; Tanigawa, Satoru] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Ibaraki, Japan; [Tai, Kaede] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, Ibaraki, Japan; [Ono, Kyoya] Jubilo Co Ltd, Shizuoka, Japan; [Hirashima, Yusuke] Shizuoka Univ, Fac Global Interdisciplinary Sci & Innovat, Shizuoka, Japan; [Yoshida, Takuya] Japan Inst Sports Sci, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka Kita Ku, Tokyo 1150056, Japan								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001524716700001	31	Article; Article		
J	Taylor, Sarah; Renshaw, Ian; Pinder, Ross; Polman, Remco; Russell, Scott; Gorman, Adam D.								Ethnographic research on coaching behaviour to enhance athlete skill learning: A scoping review								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2224	2238		10.1177/17479541251350035			OCT 2025	2025	Numerous calls have been made throughout coaching science literature for consideration of different methodological and theoretical approaches to underpin research design. Recommendations include the need for more 'naturalistic' 1 and 'longitudinal' 2, 3 approaches. One such approach is ethnography. The purpose of this scoping review was to provide an overview of peer-reviewed studies that used ethnography to investigate coaching behaviours that aim to enhance skill learning. The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analysis extension for scoping reviews (PRISMA-ScR) 4 was used to guide this review. Electronic databases including APA PsycINFO, SPORTDiscus, SCOPUS, and PubMed were searched to identify eligible studies. From 1661 results, 9 studies were determined to meet the eligibility criteria. Findings indicated that the use of ethnography is increasing, however, the low number of studies suggest its uptake remains limited in coaching science. The embedded nature of ethnography creates an opportunity for researchers to gain in-depth and nuanced insights on coaching behaviours in situ. The included studies suggest that different methodological and theoretical approaches underpinning ethnography can help enhance our understanding of the coaching process. Specifically, the use of ethnography allows us to see how behaviours inform coaching practice, influence task design and oppurtunities for learning, and the responding behaviour and actions exhibited by athletes.		[Taylor, Sarah; Renshaw, Ian; Russell, Scott; Gorman, Adam D.] Queensland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Taylor, Sarah; Pinder, Ross] Paralymp Australia, Paralymp Insights & Innovat, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Renshaw, Ian] Constraints Collect, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Polman, Remco] Federat Univ, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, Berwick, Vic, Australia; [Taylor, Sarah] Queensland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001524721700001	74	Article; Article		
J	Hwang, Ui-Jae; Jung, Sung-Hoon; Ji, Ho-Chul; Choi, Sil-Ah; Bang, In-Ju								Machine learning-based classification of Taekwondo Poomsae side kick performance using kinematic parameters and physical characteristics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3522	3541		10.1080/14763141.2025.2525557			DEC 2 2025	2025	To develop and validate machine learning (ML) models for classifying Taekwondo Poomsae side kick (SK) performance using kinematic parameters and physical function characteristics. Forty collegiate Taekwondo Poomsae athletes performed SKs with both legs. Two models were developed: a kinematic model incorporating SK and pelvic tilt angles at face and maximal heights, and a physical function model including range of motion measurements and Y-balance test scores. Performance quality was assessed by an expert evaluator using standardised criteria. Five ML algorithms were tested, and their performance was evaluated using area under the curve (AUC) analysis. Random forest classifiers demonstrated excellent performance in both models (kinematic model: AUC = 0.930, accuracy = 89.3%; physical function model: AUC = 0.930, accuracy = 89.3%). In the kinematic model, SK angle at maximal height emerged as the strongest predictor. For the physical function model, Y-balance test composite score showed the largest impact. These findings represent a substantial improvement over conventional subjective assessment methods by providing quantifiable, objective classification with high accuracy. ML algorithms can effectively classify Taekwondo SK performance using both kinematic and physical function parameters. SK angle at maximal height and dynamic balance emerged as the most important predictors in their respective models, providing quantitative criteria for performance assessment.		[Hwang, Ui-Jae] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Jung, Sung-Hoon] Baekseok Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Div Hlth Sci, Cheonan, South Korea; [Ji, Ho-Chul] Baekseok Univ, Dept Taekwondo, Div Sports Sci, Cheonan, South Korea; [Choi, Sil-Ah] Dongnam Hlth Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Suwon, South Korea; [Bang, In-Ju] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Dept Taekwondo, Seoul, South Korea; [Bang, In-Ju] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Dept Taekwondo, Seoul, South Korea								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001524271700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Brian, Ali; Miedema, Sally; Stribing, Alex; Gilbert, Emily; Pennell, Adam; Fisher, Jenna; Patey, Matthew; Mulvey, Kelly Lynn								The Effects of a Gender-Equitable Motor Skill Intervention on Changes in Object Control Skills and Held Stereotypes of Preschool-Aged Children								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			856	863		10.1080/02701367.2025.2525182			OCT 2 2025	2025	Despite no anthropometric differences until postpubescence, preschool-aged girls tend to show greater difficulty performing manipulative object control skills than boys of the same age. Purpose: As object control skills are derived from a blend of experience and culture, the purpose of this study was to examine the effects of gender-equity gross motor skill intervention on object control skills and held stereotypes of preschool-aged children. Method: Participants included children (N = 93; Mage = 47.38, SD = 6.21 months, range = 36.67-60.25 months) from classrooms randomly assigned to intervention (n = 4) and control (n = 2) conditions. We conducted three separate ANOVA with repeated measures for our main aim, with post hoc analyses confirming the results and including Bonferroni adjustments. For the exploratory aim, we conducted two point-biserial correlations-one for boys and one for girls. Results: Results showed no differential effects for the intervention based upon biological sex and that intervention groups saw significant improvements in their object control skills when compared to control. Simultaneously, intervention children reported significantly reduced held stereotypes when compared to control children that were associated with improvements in object control skills. Conclusion: A gender-equitable object control skill intervention significantly improved young children's object control skills and reduced held stereotypes, with no differential effects based on biological sex. Future research should continue to focus on gender equitable interventions and include families and other stakeholders in the intervention process.		[Brian, Ali; Miedema, Sally] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC USA; [Stribing, Alex] Kean Univ, Union, NJ USA; [Gilbert, Emily] SUNY Coll Cortland, Cortland, NY USA; [Pennell, Adam] Pepperdine Univ, Malibu, CA USA; [Fisher, Jenna] West Chester Univ Penn, W Chester, PA USA; [Patey, Matthew] Bridgewater State Univ, Bridgewater, MA USA; [Mulvey, Kelly Lynn] North Carolina State Univ, Raleigh, NC USA; [Brian, Ali] Univ South Carolina, Wardlaw Coll Educ, 280 Main St, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001522171700001	60	Article; Article		
J	Bettega, Simone; Pellegrini, Barbara; Viscioni, Gianluca; Fornasiero, Alessandro; Bortolan, Lorenzo; Schena, Federico; Zoppirolli, Chiara								Kinematics and performance on uphill and downhill trail running in elite and well-trained athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			444	454		10.1177/17479541251352176			FEB 2026	2026	This study investigated the impact of uphill (UP) and downhill (DH) sections and their relative running gross kinematics on trail running performance in athletes with different competitive levels. Data were collected during the 2023 Dolomyths Skyrace (22 km, +/- 1750 m elevation gain/loss). Split times for UP and DH sections were analyzed for the top100 male finishers. Running kinematics (stride duration, contact time, stride frequency, and stride length) was assessed via video analysis on four-course segments (two UP, two DH). Athletes were grouped by performance level, and ANCOVA was used to analyze kinematic differences. Athletes spent more time on UP (62.5 +/- 1.3%) than DH (37.5 +/- 1.3%), making UP the strongest predictor of overall time (p < 0.001). However, percentage time differences among runners were greater in DH, where time loss from the best split was higher (21.6 +/- 0.3%) than in UP (18.5 +/- 0.3%, p < 0.001). The relationship between time loss and performance varied between sections (p < 0.001). Across race sections, speed decreased from elite to well-trained athletes, accompanied by longer CT and SD and lower SF and SL in both UP and DH (p < 0.001). After adjusting for speed, no significant group differences in kinematics remained (p > 0.05). In DH, SL and SD increased in the second segment. SF explained 38-39% of speed variability in UP, while SL explained 66-73% in DH. Between-group differences in DH performance exceed those in UP, significantly impacting trail-running outcomes and highlighting the need for targeted descent training. Kinematic variations were mainly driven by speed, with stride frequency driving ascent speed and stride length facilitating faster descents.		[Bettega, Simone; Pellegrini, Barbara; Viscioni, Gianluca; Fornasiero, Alessandro; Bortolan, Lorenzo; Schena, Federico; Zoppirolli, Chiara] Univ Verona, CeRiSM, Res Ctr Sport Mt & Hlth, Piazza Manifattura,1, I-38068 Rovereto, TN, Italy; [Bettega, Simone; Viscioni, Gianluca; Schena, Federico] Univ Trento, CeRiSM, Res Ctr Sport Mt & Hlth, Piazza Manifattura,1, I-38068 Rovereto, TN, Italy; [Bettega, Simone; Viscioni, Gianluca; Schena, Federico] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Fornasiero, Alessandro; Bortolan, Lorenzo; Zoppirolli, Chiara] Univ Verona, Dept Engn Innovat Med, Verona, Italy; [Bettega, Simone] Univ Verona, CeRiSM, Res Ctr Sport Mt & Hlth, Piazza Manifattura,1, I-38068 Rovereto, TN, Italy; [Bettega, Simone] Univ Trento, CeRiSM, Res Ctr Sport Mt & Hlth, Piazza Manifattura,1, I-38068 Rovereto, TN, Italy								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001521323200001	25	Article; Article		
J	Yu, Shaoyong; Wang, Haolin								Gender differences in leadership behaviors of female coaches and their leadership effectiveness								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2332	2346		10.1177/17479541251352099			DEC 2025	2025	The purpose of this study is to explore the gender differences in the leadership behaviors of female coaches within the context of China's national conditions and cultural background, and to examine their impact on athletes' followership. Additionally, the study investigates the influence mechanism after introducing the organizational variable of the mentor-mentee relationship, as well as the moderating role of work goals as a dynamic variable in the overall influence mechanism. The research method involved administering a scale-based test to 1,071 Chinese athletes from basketball, volleyball, and soccer teams, including those from professional teams, youth teams, and university high-level teams. Regression analysis, factor analysis, and structural equation modeling were used to process the data. The research findings are as follows: (1) Compared to male coaches, the decisive and dominant behavior and supervision and inspection behavior are prominent features of Chinese female coaches' leadership, and both significantly predict athletes' followership, demonstrating strong leadership effectiveness. The mentor-mentee relationship and team work goals have mediating and moderating effects, respectively, on the leadership effectiveness of female coaches. (2) Supervision and inspection behavior can influence athletes' followership through its impact on the mentor-mentee relationship. Work goals negatively moderate the relationship between decisive behavior and athletes' followership, but work goals have a significantly positive moderating effect on the influence mechanism of female coaches' supervision and inspection behavior on athletes' followership when the mentor-mentee relationship is considered as a mediating variable. Specifically, when the mentor-mentee relationship is good, higher work goals lead to a stronger moderating effect.		[Yu, Shaoyong; Wang, Haolin] Xidian Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 2 Taibai South Rd, Xian 710071, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Wang, Haolin] Xidian Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 2 Taibai South Rd, Xian 710071, Shaanxi, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001520528800001	45	Article; Article		
J	Csiernik, Ben; Logan-Sprenger, Heather M.; Johnston, Kathryn; Wattie, Nick								An exploration of differential ratings of perceived exertion and training load in women's collegiate ice hockey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2072	2079		10.1177/17479541251352388			OCT 2025	2025	This study explored the relationship between differential ratings of perceived exertion (dRPE) and ratings of perceived exertion (RPE), and internal training load in a sample of collegiate ice hockey players. Twenty-six female (20 +/- 1.66 yr, 169.1 +/- 6.6 cm) varsity ice hockey players participated over seven weeks in the preseason and regular season. RPE, dRPE (i.e., breathlessness, lower limb exertion, and technical/cognitive demand), and practice duration were recorded each day following completion of on-ice training. RPE-breathlessness, RPE-lower limb exertion, and RPE-technical/cognitive explained approximately 75% of the variance seen in RPE. Differential RPE explained the most variance in RPE for goaltenders (R2 = 0.86) followed by defenders (R2 = 0.71) and forwards (R2 = 0.70). RPE-breathlessness showed the strongest relationship with RPE, regardless of playing position. On average, internal training load was greatest on days furthest from match days, and tapered as training day approached match days. Overall, dRPE explained a statistically significant amount of the variance captured by RPE, indicating that it captures relevant information beyond only RPE. Using RPE and dRPE to measure internal training load is a low-cost and feasible method that can be used to assist athlete load monitoring in a female collegiate varsity ice hockey setting.		[Csiernik, Ben; Logan-Sprenger, Heather M.; Wattie, Nick] Ontario Tech Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Oshawa, ON L1G 0C5, Canada; [Johnston, Kathryn] Univ Toronto, Tanenbaum Inst Sci Sport, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Csiernik, Ben] Ontario Tech Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Oshawa, ON L1G 0C5, Canada								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001520366300001	43	Article; Article		
J	Ibrahim, Nasser Abouzeid; Zajac, Tomasz; Lupu, Gabriel; Saad, Mohamed; Drozd, Milosz; Shani, Hachim; Larion, Alin; Essa, Waheed; Saleh, Thulfiqar; Hashim, Mahmoud; Hamza, Amr Saber; Alhasany, Mazin Hasan								Effects on Jump Shooting Accuracy when Using Unstable Surfaces for Functional Balance Training of Youth Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				205	216		10.5114/jhk/208790			JUL 2025	2025	This study examined the effects of a 10-week functional balance training program using unstable surfaces on dynamic postural control, lower-limb power, and technical shooting performance in adolescent male basketball players. Twenty-one participants were assigned to an experimental group (n = 11; age 16.14 +/- 1.13 years) or a control group (n = 10; age 16.89 +/- 1.34 years). Both groups trained three times per week over the intervention period. The experimental group completed additional neuromuscular exercises on unstable surfaces, while the control group performed traditional resistance-based routines. Pre- and post-intervention assessments included the Y-Balance Test (YBT), vertical jump height, and jump shooting accuracy (JSA). Statistically significant improvements in dynamic balance (p < 0.001, d = 1.84) and shooting efficiency (p < 0.001, d = 1.78) were observed in the experimental group. The control group also improved significantly in balance (p = 0.021, d = 0.87) and shooting accuracy (p = 0.014, d = 0.95), but to a lesser extent. Between-group comparisons demonstrated significant advantages for the experimental group in both the YBT (p = 0.007, d = 1.00) and JSA (p = 0.004, d = 1.07). No significant improvements were found in vertical jump performance in either group (p > 0.05). These findings suggest that incorporating functional balance training into basketball conditioning programs may enhance postural control and technical shooting execution, with a notable effect size, particularly in dynamic balance. The improvements in Y-Balance scores indicate enhanced sensorimotor control, although further research is needed to clarify the underlying neuromechanical mechanisms.		[Ibrahim, Nasser Abouzeid] King Faisal Univ Al Ahsa, Dept Phys Educ, Al Hufuf, Al Ahsa, Saudi Arabia; [Zajac, Tomasz; Drozd, Milosz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Lupu, Gabriel] Vasile Alecsandri Univ Bacau, Fac Movement Sports & Hlth Sci, Bacu, Azerbaijan; [Saad, Mohamed] Benha Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Banha, Egypt; [Shani, Hachim; Essa, Waheed; Saleh, Thulfiqar] Almaaqal Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Al Maqal, Egypt; [Larion, Alin] Ovidius Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Constanta, Romania; [Hashim, Mahmoud] Hafar AL Batin Univ, Coll Sci, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Act, Hafar, AL Batin, Saudi Arabia; [Hamza, Amr Saber] Sohag Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Sohag, Egypt; [Alhasany, Mazin Hasan] Wasit Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Al Kut, Iraq; [Drozd, Milosz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600016	30	Article; Article		
J	Marzano-Felisatti, Joaquin Martin; Pino-Ortega, Jose; Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio; Portillo, Javier; Guzman-Lujan, Jose Francisco; Priego-Quesada, Jose Ignacio								Validation of the WIMU PROTM Device for Jump Detection in Beach Volleyball: A Gender-Based Analysis during Official Competitions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				183	193		10.5114/jhk/196549			JUL 2025	2025	Jump monitoring has become an essential procedure for training load management and injury prevention in many sports, such as beach volleyball. This study aimed to assess the validity of WIMU PROTM devices for jump detection in beach volleyball and to determine, in a preliminary way, whether gender, the player's individuality or the technical action associated with the jump could influence data accuracy. Eleven beach volleyball players (6 female and 5 male) were recorded with high-definition cameras and the WIMU PROTM device during 42 one-set official matches. The number of jumps recorded by the device was compared with the observational analysis. The instrument's sensitivity was calculated based on true positives and false positives/negatives in terms of gender, player individuality, and the type of the jump. The WIMU PROTM device presented great sensitivity (96.29%), with a lower gender difference (male = 97.20%, female = 94.56%) and higher inter-player variability in females (91.06%-98.08%) than males (95.02%-98.40%). Regarding the type of the jump, actions classified as "Others" (99.10 %) obtained the greatest sensitivity, followed by "Block" (97.25 %), "Spike" (95.75 %) and "Serve" (94.69 %). The WIMU PROTM is a valid device for automatic jump detection in beach volleyball. The variations observed in terms of gender, players' individuality, and the type of the jump highlight the importance of a context-specific individualized algorithm adjustment.		[Marzano-Felisatti, Joaquin Martin; Priego-Quesada, Jose Ignacio] Univ Valencia, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sports Biomech GIBD, Valencia, Spain; [Marzano-Felisatti, Joaquin Martin; Guzman-Lujan, Jose Francisco] Univ Valencia, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sports Tech & Tact GITTE, Valencia, Spain; [Pino-Ortega, Jose] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Biovetmed & Sportsci Res Grp, San Javier, Spain; [Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio] Univ Almeria, CIBIS Ctr Invest Bienestar & Inclus Social, SPORT Res Grp CTS 1024, Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain; [Portillo, Javier] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sport Sci, Lab Motor Competence & Excellence Sport, Toledo, Spain; [Priego-Quesada, Jose Ignacio] Univ Valencia, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sports Biomech GIBD, Valencia, Spain								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600014	33	Article; Article		
J	Oliva-Lozano, Jose M.; Vidal, Miguel; Yousefian, Farzad; Cost, Rick; Gabbett, Tim J.								Predicting the Match Outcome in the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup and Analysis of Influential Features								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				169	182		10.5114/jhk/195563			JUL 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to build an XGBoost model to predict the match outcome and analyze match-related technical, tactical and physical performance features that may influence the predicted outcome of the match. This is an observational study which follows a retrospective design. The FIFA post-match summary reports were downloaded at the end of the 2023 Women's World Cup and used to create a dataset which consisted of match-related technical, tactical and physical performance variables. Then, an XGBoost model was built to predict the match outcome and investigate which performance features might influence the predicted outcome of the match. The overall model achieved accuracy of 0.58 +/- 0.05. Losses and wins had similar predictive accuracy (0.67 +/- 0.06 and 0.67 +/- 0.08, respectively), but the prediction of draws performed was significantly worse with accuracy of 0.32 +/- 0.16. The top ten features for predicting wins were: (1) out to in actions by the opponent, (2) attempts at the goal, (3) in-behind actions, (4) interceptions by the opponent, (5) loose ball receptions, (6) sprinting per minute by the opponent, (7) offers received by the opponent, (8) in-front opponent, (9) interceptions, and (10) total distance per minute. The top ten features for predicting losses were: (1) attempts at the goal by the opponent, (2) interceptions, (3) out to in actions, (4) possessions interrupted, (5) loose ball receptions by the opponent, (6) in front movements, (7) distance covered by the opponent, (8) in-behind actions by the opponent, (9) total distance, and (10) sprinting per minute. In conclusion, using an XGBoost model, this is the first study to successfully predict the match outcome for wins and losses from the FIFA Women's World Cup, but also explain which features significantly influence the prediction. This study may serve as a guide for practitioners regarding the use and application of XGBoost models in high performance.		[Oliva-Lozano, Jose M.; Vidal, Miguel; Cost, Rick; Gabbett, Tim J.] United States Soccer Federat, Chicago, IL 60601 USA; [Yousefian, Farzad] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Dept Sport Sci, CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Gabbett, Tim J.] Gabbett Performance Solut, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Oliva-Lozano, Jose M.] United States Soccer Federat, Chicago, IL 60601 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600013	30	Article; Article		
J	Posch, Markus; Mohr, Maurice; Burtscher, Martin; Greier, Klaus; Scharbert, Julia; Ruedl, Gerhard								Impact of an Elevated Rear Component of the Ski Binding on Joint Angles of the Lower Extremity and the Center of Mass in Recreational Skiers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				29	40		10.5114/jhk/194305			JUL 2025	2025	Recently, an elevated rear component of the ski binding has been associated with a reduced ACL injury risk. However, the underlying mechanism is unknown. This study aimed to evaluate the impact of elevated rear components of the ski binding on lower extremity joint angles and the center of mass (COM) in recreational skiers. To evaluate ankle, knee and hip joint angles and the COM, a cohort of 25 subjects (mean age: 25.4 +/- 1.8 years) performed unipedal standing trials within a ski boot at four heel heights (position 0: +0.2 cm; position 1: +0.5 cm; position 2: +1.5 cm and position 3: +3.0 cm) on a force plate using an optical motion capture system. Repeated measures ANOVA revealed that flexion angles at the ankle joint significantly differed (r12 = 0.145) and were lowest at position 3, indicating a more neutral ankle joint (-1 degrees). Flexion angles at the knee joint significantly increased with increasing heel height (r12 = 0.715) and were highest at position 3 (+6.9 degrees), indicating a more flexed knee joint. Hip joint angles were not significantly different between the four different conditions (r12 = 0.082). The anterior-posterior COM position differed significantly between the four testing positions (r12 = 0.668) and was most anterior at position 3 (+3.7 cm), indicating a forward movement of the COM. An elevation of the heel component of the ski binding causes an increase in knee flexion accompanied by a forward movement of the COM, both potentially increasing hamstring co-activation as an advantageous preventive measure for ACL injuries in recreational skiing.		[Posch, Markus; Mohr, Maurice; Burtscher, Martin; Greier, Klaus; Scharbert, Julia; Ruedl, Gerhard] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Posch, Markus; Greier, Klaus] Univ Coll Educ KPH ES, Dept Phys Educ, Stams, Austria; [Posch, Markus] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Posch, Markus] Univ Coll Educ KPH ES, Dept Phys Educ, Stams, Austria								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600003	41	Article; Article		
J	Bezuglov, Eduard; Morgans, Ryland; Kapralova, Elizaveta; Achkasov, Evgeny; Telyshev, Danila; Sadkovaya, Olga; Malyakin, Georgiy								Relative Age Effect Is Widespread among Most Successful Youth, but Not in Senior Olympic Weightlifters								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				231	241		10.5114/jhk/194499			JUL 2025	2025	The aim of the study was to investigate the prevalence of the relative age effect (RAE) among elite Olympic weightlifters in different age groups. The prevalence of RAE was studied among top 10 participants from the World Weightlifting championships for youth, junior and senior age groups and from the Olympic Games from 2009 to 2022. Birth dates of 3886 athletes were analyzed and further divided into four groups according to the birth quartile. Weight categories were grouped as lightweight, middleweight and heavyweight. The effect was found among lightweight and heavyweight girls, boys of all weight groups, lightweight and middleweight junior females and juniors of all weight groups. In the senior group, RAE was only present among heavyweight males. Differences in the prevalence of RAE between male and female weightlifters were statistically significant (p = 0.009). Differences in effect between youth and junior age groups were not significant (p = 0.24). The findings of this study demonstrate that RAE tends to be widespread among the best weightlifters of both sexes in youth and junior age groups, but disappears in most weight groups at the elite senior level.		[Bezuglov, Eduard; Morgans, Ryland; Kapralova, Elizaveta; Achkasov, Evgeny; Telyshev, Danila; Malyakin, Georgiy] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, Dept Sports Med & Med Rehabil, Moscow, Russia; [Bezuglov, Eduard; Malyakin, Georgiy] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, High Performance Sports Lab, Moscow, Russia; [Sadkovaya, Olga] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, FF Erisman Inst Publ Hlth, NA Semashko Publ Hlth & Healthcare Dept, Moscow, Russia; [Malyakin, Georgiy] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, Dept Sports Med & Med Rehabil, Moscow, Russia; [Malyakin, Georgiy] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, High Performance Sports Lab, Moscow, Russia								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600018	40	Article; Article		
J	Yue, Tian; Su, Hanghang; Cheng, Ming-Yang; Wang, Yan; Bao, Ke; Qi, Fengxue								High-Intensity Interval Training Improves Inhibitory Control and Working Memory in Healthy Young Adults								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				41	56		10.5114/jhk/194498			JUL 2025	2025	High-intensity interval training (HIIT) has emerged as a time-efficient mode of exercise. However, there is limited evidence that HIIT improves inhibitory control and working memory (WM) more than moderate-intensity continuous exercise (MICT). This study aimed to explore the effects of HIIT, moderate-intensity interval exercise (MIIT), and MICT on inhibitory control and WM in healthy adults. Twenty-five healthy college students (21.04 +/- 2.44 years; 14 females) were recruited to complete HIIT, MIIT, MICT, and a resting session (CON) for 15 min in a randomized crossover design. The HIIT protocol comprised three 3-min bouts at 90% of the maximum heart rate (HRmax) with 2 min of active recovery at 70% HRmax. The MIIT protocol comprised three 3-min bouts at 70% HRmax with 2 min of active recovery at 50% HRmax. A volume-matched MICT protocol was applied at 70% HRmax. The Stroop and 2-back tasks were used to evaluate inhibitory control and WM in post-trials, respectively. Response times (RTs) of the Stroop task significantly improved on the congruent condition in the HIIT session compared to the CON session (p = 0.004, Cohen's d = 0.64), on the incongruent condition in the HIIT session compared to MICT (p = 0.049, Cohen's d = 0.42) and CON (p = 0.023, Cohen's d = 0.49) sessions, and on the neutral condition in the HIIT session compared to MIIT (p = 0.029, Cohen's d = 0.47) and CON (p = 0.012, Cohen's d = 0.55) sessions. Hits in the 2-back task increased significantly following HIIT compared to MIIT (p = 0.041, Cohen's d = 0.43), MICT (p = 0.02, Cohen's d = 0.5), and CON (p = 0.006, Cohen's d = 0.6). We concluded that a single bout of HIIT effectively improved inhibitory control and WM in healthy adults. These findings support the practical implication of HIIT being beneficial within a short time for enhancing inhibitory control and WM in clinical populations.		[Yue, Tian; Su, Hanghang; Bao, Ke; Qi, Fengxue] Beijing Sport Univ, Key Lab Sport Training Gen Adm Sport China, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yue, Tian; Su, Hanghang; Qi, Fengxue] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Sports Exercise & Brain Sci Lab, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Cheng, Ming-Yang] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Psychol, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yan] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Med & Rehabil, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Qi, Fengxue] Beijing Sport Univ, Key Lab Sport Training Gen Adm Sport China, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Qi, Fengxue] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Sports Exercise & Brain Sci Lab, Beijing, Peoples R China								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600004	69	Article; Article		
J	Podstawski, Robert; Boryslawski, Krzysztof; Ihasz, Ferenc; Gronek, Piotr								International Standards for the 12-Minute Cooper Test on a Concept 2 Rowing Ergometer: Validity and Reliability of the Test								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				243	252		10.5114/jhk/195638			JUL 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to develop international standards for evaluating strength endurance abilities with the use of the 12-min Cooper Test on a rowing ergometer (12-MCTRE). The results from 1855 men (1421 from Poland and 434 from Hungary) and 2879 women (2502 from Poland and 412 from Hungary) aged 19-25 (mean age of 19.98 +/- 1.04 and 20.36 +/- 0.94, respectively) were collated between 2004 and 2020. The results were expressed on a uniform Tscore scale for the 12-MCTRE. The validity of the 12-MCTRE was verified on a group of 28 male and 32 female participants based on the registered variables (power [W], energy expenditure [Kcal], training intensity distribution, and sexual dimorphism). On average, men covered a distance of 2535.6 m and women covered a distance of 1581.0 m during the 12-MCTRE. The results of the control group indicate that men covered a significantly (p < 0.001) longer distance (2691.5 m) than women (2116.1 m) in the 12-MCTRE, and the values of the remaining variables (power, energy expenditure, pace/500 m, and HRmax) were also significantly better in male participants. During the 12-MCTRE, both women and men remained in the very high effort zone for the longest period of time (516.9 s and 363.1 s, respectively). Women spent significantly more time (p < 0.001) in the high effort zone than men, but significantly less time in the maximal effort zone and the very high effort zone. The 12-MCTRE is an effective tool for evaluating strength endurance abilities in young adults.		[Podstawski, Robert] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Dept Physiotherapy, Human Wellness Res Lab, Olsztyn, Poland; [Boryslawski, Krzysztof] Angelus Silesius Univ Appl Sci, Inst Hlth, Walbrzych, Poland; [Ihasz, Ferenc] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Fac Psychol & Pedag, Szombathely, Hungary; [Gronek, Piotr] Univ Phys Educ Poznan, Dept Dance, Poznan, Poland; [Podstawski, Robert] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Dept Physiotherapy, Human Wellness Res Lab, Olsztyn, Poland								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600019	39	Article; Article		
J	Rebelo, Andre; Teixeira, Diogo S.; Monteiro, Diogo; Monteiro, Ricardo; Travassos, Bruno								The Last Whistle: Unveiling the Relationship between the Career Path and Retirement Age in Professional Soccer								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				253	261		10.5114/jhk/194996			JUL 2025	2025	This study explores the relationship between Career Indicators (CIs) and the retiring age of Portuguese soccer players, focusing on the impact of early career experiences and career discontinuation stages. Data were analyzed from retired Portuguese soccer players registered on a private digital platform, using specific CIs related to different stages of their athletic careers. The analysis involved a two-level mediation model incorporating various CIs. Significant direct effects emerged with 'the number of seasons as a youth player' and 'the number of seasons as a youth player in top 3 clubs' on 'retiring age'. Additionally, a strong association was identified between 'discontinuation stage length' and 'retiring age'. The findings emphasize the importance of effectively managing career discontinuation stages and proactive career planning. Consequently, comprehensive support programs offering resources and guidance for career transitions are recommended for soccer players. The study underlines the key role of stakeholders in enabling smoother transitions into retirement.		[Rebelo, Andre; Teixeira, Diogo S.] Lusofona Univ, Ctr Res Sport Phys Educ Exercise & Hlth, CIDEFES, Lisbon, Portugal; [Rebelo, Andre] Ctr Sports Optimizat, COD, Sporting Clube Portugal, Lisbon, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] ESECS Polytech Univ Leiria, Leiria, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo; Travassos, Bruno] Res Ctr Sport Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Monteiro, Ricardo; Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Rebelo, Andre] Lusofona Univ, Ctr Res Sport Phys Educ Exercise & Hlth, CIDEFES, Lisbon, Portugal; [Rebelo, Andre] Ctr Sports Optimizat, COD, Sporting Clube Portugal, Lisbon, Portugal								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600020	25	Article; Article		
J	Dietze-Hermosa, Martin; Montalvo, Samuel; Gonzalez, Matthew P.; Briggs, Anna; Dorgo, Sandor								Resisted Sprint Training Improves Overground Sprint, Jump, and Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull Kinetics and Kinematics in Male Youth Ice Hockey Players: A Randomized Control Trial								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				117	131		10.5114/jhk/200549			JUL 2025	2025	This study investigated the effects of an on-ice resisted sprint training (RST) intervention, an overground RST intervention and a traditional training control condition on measures associated with ice skating completion time. The vertical jump, the broad jump, the isometric mid-thigh pull, and overground sprint completion times, along wth sprint kinetics and kinematics were obtained prior and at the conclusion of the 8-week training intervention. There was a 7% increase in jump height (p < 0.05), a 9% increase in the jump peak force (p < 0.05), a 10% increase in jump peak power and a 21% increase in broad jump distance (p < 0.001) across all groups. Only the overground RST group significantly improved by 12% (p = 0.007) in the isometric mid-thigh pull peak force. All groups decreased 9.14-m completion time (-3%), 36.58-m completion time (-4%), and flying 30-m top speed completion time (-9%) (p < 0.05). The on-ice RST group improved by 22% in theoretical maximal horizontal force, 24% in theoretical maximal horizontal power, and 7% in the maximal ratio of force (p < 0.05). The step rate decreased by-2%, and the trunk angle increased by 48% at the touchdown and 30% at the toe-off for the overground RST group (p < 0.05). RST and bodyweight training induced comparable changes across most overground athletic performance measures associated with ice skating. Coaches desiring to improve overground predictors of ice skating performance in ice hockey players may benefit from incorporating RST as a component of a well rounded strength and conditioning program.		[Dietze-Hermosa, Martin; Briggs, Anna] Brigham Young Univ Idaho, Dept Human Performance & Recreat, Rexburg, ID 83460 USA; [Montalvo, Samuel] Stanford Univ, Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance, Palo Alto, CA USA; [Montalvo, Samuel] Stanford Univ, Div Cardiovasc Med, Stanford Sports Cardiol, Sch Med, Palo Alto, CA USA; [Gonzalez, Matthew P.; Dorgo, Sandor] Univ Texas San Antonio, Dept Kinesiol, San Antonio, TX USA; [Dietze-Hermosa, Martin] Brigham Young Univ Idaho, Dept Human Performance & Recreat, Rexburg, ID 83460 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600010	39	Article; Article		
J	Hegyi, Andras; Sarcher, Aurelie; Varenne, Fabien; Mornet, Alexis; Cadu, Jean-Philippe; Carcreff, Lena; Lacourpaille, Lilian								Validating Field Methods to Estimate the Pelvic Tilt in Sprinting and the Relationship between Prior Hamstring Injury and the Pelvic Tilt in Elite Female Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				17	28		10.5114/jhk/194851			JUL 2025	2025	An excessive pelvic tilt in the late swing phase of sprinting may be associated with an increased risk of hamstring injury. Nevertheless, research including female athletes is scarce. Furthermore, it is essential to validate simple on-field methods. This study consisted of two experiments. Experiment I assessed the validity of two 2-D video-based methods: i) the kick-back score calculated from thigh angles at the toe-off and the touchdown; and ii) the pelvic tilt estimated by a line connecting two markers on the pelvis. Twelve soccer players sprinted for 30 m, and 3-D motion capture data and 2-D sagittal plane video were recorded. Experiment II aimed to compare the above 2-D methods in recently injured (n = 7) and non-injured (n = 18) professional female soccer players. In Experiment I, no correlation was found between the kick-back score and the pelvic tilt assessed using 3-D motion capture (rho = -0.224, p = 0.242). Two-D camera-based estimation of the pelvic tilt correlated with the 3-D pelvic tilt (r = 0.89-0.94, p < 0.001). In Experiment II, the kick-back score was not significantly different between groups (d = 0.11, p = 0.41). The pelvic tilt was higher in the previously injured than in non-injured players in the late swing phase (d = -0.79, p = 0.03). Our results suggest that the kick-back score is not associated with the pelvic tilt. Nevertheless, the estimation of the pelvic tilt infield settings is feasible through the tracking of two markers on the pelvis in the sagittal plane. Additionally, longitudinal studies are recommended to gain deeper understanding of the excessive pelvic tilt in previously injured female soccer players.		[Hegyi, Andras] Hungarian Univ Sports Sci, Dept Kinesiol, Budapest, Hungary; [Hegyi, Andras; Sarcher, Aurelie; Varenne, Fabien; Mornet, Alexis; Carcreff, Lena; Lacourpaille, Lilian] Nantes Univ, Interact Performance, MIP, UR 4334, Nantes, France; [Cadu, Jean-Philippe] Football Club Nantes, Performance Dept, Nantes, France; [Hegyi, Andras] Hungarian Univ Sports Sci, Dept Kinesiol, Budapest, Hungary; [Hegyi, Andras] Nantes Univ, Interact Performance, MIP, UR 4334, Nantes, France								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600002	33	Article; Article		
J	Lin, Kun Han; Huang, Yi Ming; Cai, Zong Yan								The Ergogenic Effects of Intermittent Palm Cooling on Repeated Baseball Throwing Are Reversed when Cooling-Induced Pain Occurs								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				98				67	77		10.5114/jhk/194455			JUL 2025	2025	Intermittent palm cooling (PC) could benefit strength performance. However, its effect on baseball throwing, which requires explosive strength, has yet to be determined. This study aimed to examine whether intermittent PC would enhance repeated baseball throwing performance and how pain after PC would affect outcomes. Twenty-two university division II male baseball athletes were instructed to perform five sets of 10 throws at maximum speed toward a target, separated by 3-min of recovery with PC into 10 degrees C water or non-cooling (NC). Participants were classified into the no-pain group (NPG, n = 10) and mild-to-moderate pain group (PG, n = 12) according to their pain sensation after PC for data analysis. The results showed a significantly lower rating of perceived exertion under PC conditions (p < 0.05). In the NPG, PC resulted in higher mean throw velocity (107.9 +/- 9.9 vs. 106.9 +/- 10.2 km/h), maximal throw velocity (112.5 +/- 9.0 vs. 111.2 +/- 9.8 km/h), accuracy, and the arousal level than NC; in the PG, PC resulted in lower mean throw velocity (101.0 +/- 11.1 vs. 105.2 +/- 10.5 km/h) and maximal throw velocity (105.0 +/- 10.8 vs. 108.7 +/- 9.8 km/h) when compared with NC (p < 0.05). However, no significant difference was noted in accuracy and arousal levels between PC and NC (p > 0.05) in the PG. In conclusion, after PC, pain-free baseball athletes can enhance their baseball throwing performance. The presence or absence of pain after PC can serve as an initial assessment of whether to use it as an ergogenic aid strategy.		[Lin, Kun Han] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Phys Educ Off, Hsinchu City, Taiwan; [Huang, Yi Ming] Fascia Plus Lab, Taipei City, Taiwan; [Cai, Zong Yan] Natl Sun Yat Sen Univ, Si Wan Coll, Ctr Phys & Hlth Educ, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Cai, Zong Yan] Natl Sun Yat Sen Univ, Si Wan Coll, Ctr Phys & Hlth Educ, Kaohsiung, Taiwan								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001544447600006	39	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez, Raimundo; Nieto, Claudio; Leppe, Jaime; Gabbett, Tim; Besomi, Manuela								Associations between training load, heart rate variability, perceptual fatigue, sleep, and injury in endurance athletes during a 12-week training mesocycle								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1918	1928		10.1177/17479541251335613			OCT 2025	2025	This study examined associations among training load (external and internal), heart rate variability (HRV), perceptual fatigue, sleep, and injury in endurance athletes during a 12-week training mesocycle. The aims were to (i) compare these parameters between injured and non-injured weeks and (ii) assess differences between high- and low-severity injuries. Fifteen endurance athletes (80% males; median age: 36.5 years; running experience: 5.5 years) participated. Injury severity was measured using the Oslo Sports Trauma Research Centre Questionnaire on Health Problems (OSTRC-H). Training load (training stress score [TSS], Session-Rate of Perceived Exertion [sRPE]), HRV, perceptual fatigue (readiness to train and wellbeing), and sleep were collected through daily and weekly assessments over 12 weeks. The weekly injury prevalence over the 12-week period ranged from 7%-40%, with 47% classified as high severity. Injured weeks were characterised by significantly higher sleep-related impairment (p = .004, Hedge's g = 0.704), while all other variables did not significantly differ. Athletes who sustained more severe injuries exhibited lower TSS (p < .001, Hedge's g = 0.84), lower sRPE (p = .029, Hedge's g = 0.705), poorer subjective wellbeing (p = .003, Hedge's g = 0.753), and lower HRV (p = .059, Hedge's g = 0.487) in the week preceding the injury. This exploratory study provides preliminary insights into the potential role of sleep-related impairment, training load fluctuations, and HRV in injury severity among endurance athletes. While findings suggest benefits of integrating these measures into monitoring strategies, the small sample size limits generalisability and should be interpreted with caution.		[Sanchez, Raimundo; Besomi, Manuela] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Nieto, Claudio] Univ Andres Bello, Fac Educ & Ciencias Sociales, Carrera Entrenador Deport, Vina Del Mar, Chile; [Nieto, Claudio] Univ Otago, Fac Sci, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Leppe, Jaime; Besomi, Manuela] Univ Desarrollo, Fac Med, Carrera Kinesiol, Clin Alemana, Santiago, Chile; [Gabbett, Tim] Gabbett Performance Solut, Brisbane, Australia; [Gabbett, Tim] Federat Univ, Hlth Innovat & Transformat Ctr, Ballarat, Australia; [Besomi, Manuela] Running Clin, Lac Beauport, PQ, Canada; [Besomi, Manuela] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001519849700001	44	Article; Article		
J	Alkhateeb, Guevar; Held, Steffen; Rappelt, Ludwig; Klatt, Stefanie; Donath, Lars								Muscle architecture changes in healthy older adult men: Effects of twelve weeks of football vs. aerobic training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			227	243		10.1177/17479541251347942			FEB 2026	2026	Physical training can enhance muscle structure and function, thereby mitigating the adverse effects of biological aging. Football, characterized as an intense, intermittent, and multidirectional sport, has been shown to improve physical performance in older adults, with effects comparable to those of aerobic training. However, there is limited research directly comparing their specific impacts on muscle architecture. This randomized controlled trial investigated the effects of football versus aerobic training on the pennation angle, muscle thickness, and fascicle length of the vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, and rectus femoris muscles. Specifically, the study examined whether football training elicits distinct adaptations in power, total work, peak torque, aerobic endurance, and patellar tendon thickness and length compared to conventional aerobic exercise. Over 24 sessions, participants in the football group (n = 28, mean age 55) engaged in 30 min of small- and large-sided game exercises per session, while those in the aerobic group (n = 28, mean age 54) performed 30 min of continuous aerobic exercises. Significant time effects were observed within both groups (p < 0.05), with comparable increases in muscle architecture (eta p(2) = 0.07-0.12, indicating moderate to large effects). No significant group*time interaction effects were found for the vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, or rectus femoris muscles. Both groups significantly improved in pennation angle, muscle thickness, and fascicle length over time. Post-intervention, no significant differences appeared between groups in power, total work, peak torque, aerobic endurance, or patellar tendon properties. Despite differing movement and agility demands, football and aerobic training effectively enhanced muscle architecture in healthy, untrained older adults.		[Alkhateeb, Guevar; Held, Steffen; Rappelt, Ludwig; Donath, Lars] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sports Informat, Sect Intervent Res Exercise Training, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Klatt, Stefanie] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sports Informat, Sect Cognit Team Sports, Cologne, Germany; [Alkhateeb, Guevar] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sports Informat, Sect Intervent Res Exercise Training, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001519859500001	60	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Wlaldemir Roberto; Camarotti Junior, Frederico; Barbosa, Danilo; Ginnari, Kaua Vieira; Dos Santos, Aryelle Karla Samuel Gomes; Timoteo, Beneuan de Oliveira; Costa, Manoel da Cunha; da Costa, Marlene Salvina Fernandes; Paes, Pedro Pinheiro								Injuries in Female Soccer Athletes: Risk of Injury Across Different Phases of the Menstrual Cycle								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			819	826		10.1080/02701367.2025.2515968			OCT 2 2025	2025	The Menstrual Cycle (MC) involves hormonal changes that impact physical performance and increase the risk of injuries in female athletes. This study aimed to evaluate the injury risk in female soccer players during different phases of the MC, along with their characteristics, aiming at prevention and training strategies. It is a cross-sectional, exploratory, and retrospective study with Brazilian professional female soccer players. The sample consisted of 53 athletes (mean age 21.7 +/- 4.9 years), 20 (37.7%) of whom had injuries in the last season. All participants had a regular MC and were registered in the professional roster. Data were collected through face-to-face interviews, covering personal and sports information, injury history in the last 12 months, and gynecological conditions. Injuries were correlated with the phases of the MC. The statistical analysis used the Pearson chi(2) test to compare the occurrence of injuries between the MC phases, with significance set at p < .05. A significant association was found between injuries and the phases of the MC, with the early follicular phase showing the highest proportion of injury rates (35.0%; p < .001; OR = 37.20), especially among midfielders (42.8%). Of these, 66.7% sustained contact injuries, all during training, with joint origins localized in the knee. Thus, we suggest that the early follicular phase may represent a period of increased vulnerability to injury risk. However, prospective and longitudinal studies across various leagues are needed to clarify the influence of the MC on these athletes' injuries.		[Santos, Wlaldemir Roberto; Barbosa, Danilo; Ginnari, Kaua Vieira; Dos Santos, Aryelle Karla Samuel Gomes; Timoteo, Beneuan de Oliveira; Costa, Manoel da Cunha; da Costa, Marlene Salvina Fernandes] Univ Pernambuco, Pernambuco, Brazil; [Camarotti Junior, Frederico; Paes, Pedro Pinheiro] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil; [Santos, Wlaldemir Roberto] Univ Pernambuco, Pernambuco, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001520224700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Filter, Alberto; Olivares-Jabalera, Jesus; Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente; Santalla, Alfredo; Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos; Galvez, Javier; De-la-Cruz-Torres, Blanca								The My Jump Lab application is a valid and reliable low-cost alternative to test curved sprint performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	12			3510	3521		10.1080/14763141.2025.2524344			DEC 2 2025	2025	Curved sprinting has been proposed as a relevant and specific skill for soccer players' physical performance. However, professional timing systems are not always readily available in less resource-constrained environments. To address this issue, the development of a low-cost and user-friendly smartphone application could have practical applications for team sports staffs. In this context, the objective of this study was to evaluate the validity and reliability of the My Jump Lab application for the measurement of the curved sprint performance test. Correlational, comparative, and Bland-Altman analyses were conducted to assess the validity and reliability of the application in comparison with the gold-standard device. The results demonstrated excellent concurrent validity (r = 0.97-0.99, p < 0.001), and acceptable reliability (coefficient of variation < 3%, intraclass correlation coefficient = 0.88-0.96). Bland-Altman plots revealed small biases (-0.015 s and -0.010 s for the 17-m and 8.5 m curved sprints, respectively) and narrow 95% limits of agreement (-0.04 to 0.01 s and -0.03 to 0.01 s), indicating string agreement and no heteroskedasticity. Although small but significant differences were observed between test and retest sessions (p < 0.05), the overall findings support that My Jump Lab is a valid and reliable tool for assessing completion time during the curved sprint test in the specified arc, offering a cost-effective alternative for applied sport settings.		[Filter, Alberto; Olivares-Jabalera, Jesus; Santalla, Alfredo] Football Sci Inst, FSI Lab, Granada, Spain; [Filter, Alberto; Santalla, Alfredo; Galvez, Javier] Univ Pablo Olavide, Res Grp Phys Act Hlth & Sport CTS-948, Seville, Spain; [Olivares-Jabalera, Jesus] Sport & Hlth Univ Res Inst iMUDS, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, Granada, Spain; [Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente] Univ Cardenal Herrera, CEU Univ, Sch Humanities & Commun Sci, Dept Educ Sci, Castellon De La Plana, Spain; [Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente] Univ Cardenal Herrera, CEU Univ, Phys Exercise & Performance Res Grp, Castellon De La Plana, Spain; [Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos] Autonomous Univ Madrid, Appl Biomech & Sport Technol Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [De-la-Cruz-Torres, Blanca] Univ Seville, Dept Physiotherapy, Seville, Spain; [Filter, Alberto] Football Sci Inst, FSI Lab, Granada, Spain; [Filter, Alberto] Univ Pablo Olavide, Res Grp Phys Act Hlth & Sport CTS-948, Seville, Spain								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001520305100001	27	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Richong; Takayanagi, Kohei; Tai, Kaede; Hakata, Hiroki; Nakayama, Masao; Asai, Takeshi								Motion characteristics of directional ball-trapping techniques in soccer: A comparative study of advanced and intermediate players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			216	226		10.1177/17479541251350820			FEB 2026	2026	This study investigated the motion characteristics of ball-trapping techniques in soccer, focusing on directional changes in spaces between the defense and midfield lines by comparing advanced and intermediate university-level players. Effective ball-trapping techniques are critical for maintaining stability during play and for enabling offensive strategies. Although limited studies have been conducted on ball trapping, often using oversimplified and closed-skill environments, this study identified the technical factors that enhance these skills to improve performance in match settings. Motion-capture technology focuses on ball-to-foot contact control, pelvic orientation, and ankle-eversion angular speed. Ten advanced and eight intermediate soccer players participated in this study, and each performed multiple directional ball-trapping trials under standardized conditions. The advanced group demonstrated significantly shorter total trapping times than the intermediate group (p < 0.05). The vertical distance between the center of the ball and the ball-to-foot contact point was larger and the horizontal distance was smaller in the advanced group (p < 0.05). Additionally, the advanced players exhibited pelvic orientational angles that were more parallel to the ball trajectory and demonstrated higher ankle-eversion angular speeds during impact (p < 0.05). These results suggest that advanced players minimize trapping errors through precise ball-to-foot contact adjustment, proactive pelvic rotation, and effective utilization of ankle flexibility and strength. These technical elements enable smoother transitions and improved directional changes during play. The findings provide valuable insights for coaching, emphasizing drills to enhance ball-to-foot contact precision, pelvic rotation, and ankle flexibility, improving overall trapping performance.		[Liu, Richong; Tai, Kaede] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, 1 Chome-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058577, Japan; [Takayanagi, Kohei; Nakayama, Masao] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Hakata, Hiroki] Hosei Univ, Grad Sch Sports & Hlth Studies, Tokyo, Japan; [Asai, Takeshi] Int Pacific Univ, Phys Educ, Okayama, Japan; [Liu, Richong] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, 1 Chome-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058577, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001518735800001	19	Article; Article		
J	Visek, Amanda J.; Albenze, Rachel; Stranieri, Andrew M.; Jin, Yichen; Vile, Sebastian; Fordham, Nathan								Group concept mapping fun determinants among junior tennis players in the United States: An ecological systems perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2521	2539		10.1177/17479541251345942			DEC 2025	2025	One of the biggest challenges facing sport worldwide is putting fun, player-centered experiences at the core of programming in ways that drive participation, and in turn, retention. Determinants of fun in youth-based, team sports have been investigated, however, individual sports, like tennis, also need sport-specific, data-driven information on which to position action plans and retention strategies rooted in optimizing fun. The current study used group concept mapping, an innovative mixed-method research design, and engaged a well-represented sample of junior tennis players (N = 667), aged 6-19, in the United States to investigate determinants of what makes tennis fun and the relative importance of those determinants to having fun. They identified 120 fun determinants, organized in 11 overarching thematic clusters, that they rated in three tiers of importance: primary importance (Match Play, Positive Coaching, Working Hard & Learning, Developing Mental Strength, Staying Active, Sportsmanship, Training with Coach), secondary importance (Ways of Playing, Hitting the Ball, Skill Building), and tertiary importance (Bonuses). These findings are considered in light of a (fun)damental sport ecosystems framework that extends the fun integration theory through an understanding of various environments and subsystems that influence fun. Overall, the findings can be used to inform actionable plans and strategies, i.e., coach education, parent support, program planning, and policies, to deliver fun tennis experiences that facilitate junior players' athletic and personal development in ways that, ultimately, promote participation retention and prevent dropout.		[Visek, Amanda J.; Albenze, Rachel; Stranieri, Andrew M.; Jin, Yichen; Vile, Sebastian; Fordham, Nathan] George Washington Univ, Dept Exercise & Nutr Sci, 950 New Hampshire Ave,Suite 200, Washington, DC 20052 USA; [Visek, Amanda J.] George Washington Univ, Dept Exercise & Nutr Sci, 950 New Hampshire Ave,Suite 200, Washington, DC 20052 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001518091200001	74	Article; Article		
J	Hofman, Natan Borges; Laporta, Lorenzo; Trindade, Nathalia Prado; Berriel, Guilherme Pereira; Schons, Pedro; Martins Kruel, Luiz Fernando; de Conti Teixeira Costa, Gustavo; Leonardi, Thiago Jose								Sequence and effectivity of game complexes in male youth volleyball categories								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			350	358		10.1177/17479541251350930			FEB 2026	2026	The objectives of this study were: i) to analyze the sequence of game complexes in male youth volleyball categories, considering their frequency and effectivity of final actions, ii) to assess the importance of each complex within the overall game by the Social Network Analysis. We analyzed the behavior of 16 teams that participated in the Brazilian Selection Championship in 2019 in two levels (Special and First Division). The 56 games resulted in 200 sets, totaling 357,707 actions. We used the Fisher exact test, calculation of the significance of observation independence, and Social Network Analysis using eigenvector centrality. As result, there were fewer cases than expected for error in K0, continuity in KI and KV, and point in K0; there were more cases than expected for error in KI, continuity in K0, and point in KI and KV. The most frequent sequences of complexes and effectivity were K0E1-KIE2, K0E1-KIE0, K0E0, K0E2E2, K0E1-KIE1-KIIE2. The Eigenvector Centrality presented as results: KIIIE1, KIVE1, KV(2)E1, KIII(2)E1, KIII(3)E1 in the Special Division; KIII(3)E1, KIII(2)E1, KVE1, KV(2)E1, KIVE1 in the First Division. This study highlighted the main sequences, effectivity and differences that occurred in the Brazilian U-17 Male Selection Championship, assisting coaches in problem solving for training.		[Hofman, Natan Borges; Berriel, Guilherme Pereira; Schons, Pedro; Martins Kruel, Luiz Fernando; Leonardi, Thiago Jose] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, 750 Felizardo St, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Laporta, Lorenzo; Trindade, Nathalia Prado] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Santa Maria, Brazil; [Berriel, Guilherme Pereira; Schons, Pedro] Fac Sogipa, Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Berriel, Guilherme Pereira] Confederacao Brasileira Voleibol, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [de Conti Teixeira Costa, Gustavo] Univ Fed Goias, Goiania, Brazil; [Leonardi, Thiago Jose] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, 750 Felizardo St, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001518129000001	43	Article; Article		
J	Rhee, Yong Chae; Kim, Kyungun; Ha, Wanyoung; Barnes, Justin								Gen Z's expectations for the NFL: aligning corporate social responsibility with a values-driven generation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	1			81	95		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2025-0022			FEB 4 2026	2026	PurposeThe purpose of this study is to examine how corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives influence Generation Z's engagement with the NFL. By focusing on key CSR dimensions-environment, social justice, health, education, and patriotism-the research explores their impact on behavioral intentions, including attendance, word-of-mouth, and electronic word-of-mouth. This study aims to provide actionable insights for sports organizations, emphasizing the importance of aligning CSR strategies with Generation Z's values to foster stronger connections and drive positive engagement. The findings contribute to the growing understanding of effective CSR practices in the context of sport marketing and sponsorship.Design/methodology/approachThis study employs a survey-based quantitative research design, utilizing Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) to analyze the influence of corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives on Generation Z's engagement with the NFL. Data were collected using a structured questionnaire to measure the impact of five CSR dimensions-environment, social justice, health, education, and patriotism-on behavioral intentions, including attendance, word-of-mouth, and electronic word-of-mouth. SEM was used to test relationships between CSR dimensions and engagement outcomes, ensuring robust analysis and actionable insights for sport organizations.FindingsThe study found that Generation Z's engagement with the NFL is significantly influenced by CSR initiatives. Among the five CSR dimensions, social justice and environmental efforts had the strongest impact on behavioral intentions, including attendance, word-of-mouth, and electronic word-of-mouth. Authenticity and alignment with Generation Z's values emerged as critical factors driving positive engagement. The findings highlight the importance of tailoring CSR initiatives to resonate with this demographic, offering actionable insights for sports organizations to foster stronger connections and enhance brand loyalty through targeted, values-driven strategies.Originality/valueThis study explores how CSR initiatives impact Generation Z's connection to the NFL. By focusing on five key areas-environment, social justice, health, education, and patriotism-it highlights how values-driven strategies resonate with younger audiences. The research emphasizes authenticity, showing that Gen Z values brands aligning with their beliefs. Using Structural Equation Modeling (SEM), it provides actionable insights for sports organizations to design CSR efforts that foster engagement, loyalty, and positive brand perception.		[Rhee, Yong Chae] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Ctr Sport Leadership, Richmond, VA 23284 USA; [Kim, Kyungun] Univ Cent Missouri, Dept Sport Management, Warrensburg, MO USA; [Ha, Wanyoung] Washington State Univ, Dept Educ Leadership & Sport Management, Pullman, WA USA; [Barnes, Justin] Washington State Univ, Dept Strateg Commun, Pullman, WA USA; [Rhee, Yong Chae] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Ctr Sport Leadership, Richmond, VA 23284 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001513074800001	48	Article; Article		
J	Goes, Alberto Lobato; Machado, Joao Claudio; Bosco Junior, Joao; Araujo, Duarte; Leonardo, Lucas; Bedo, Bruno; Scaglia, Alcides Jose								The influence of coaches' intervention on the technical-tactical performance dynamics of young soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2355	2364		10.1177/17479541251348090			DEC 2025	2025	The study investigated the effect of coaches' intervention strategies on the technical-tactical performance dynamics of football teams in small-sided games (SSG). The study involved three coaches (A, B, C) and 16 Under-17 players. Each coach was asked to select a tactical content related to the operational principles of the offensive phase and to design a SSG to emphasize it. During the training session, each coach was asked to apply this SSG under four different conditions: Condition 01 (No Intervention); Condition 02 (Verbal Intervention); Condition 03 (Game Intervention); Condition 04 (Free Intervention). The technical-tactical performance was evaluated through notational analysis and positional variables. Regarding the Coach A's intervention, it was interesting to note that none of the interventions used were capable of better stimulating the intended tactical training content, meaning it's also important to consider that in certain situations, there's no need for intervention. For Coach B, the use of intervention strategies based on manipulation of key tasks constraints was more efficient. Regarding the Coach C's intervention, strategies of verbal communication and manipulation of key tasks constraints were both effective. Coaches need to develop their pedagogical sensitivity in order to adjust their intervention strategies to their professional context.		[Goes, Alberto Lobato; Bosco Junior, Joao; Scaglia, Alcides Jose] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Goes, Alberto Lobato; Bosco Junior, Joao; Scaglia, Alcides Jose] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Appl Sci FCA, Lab Sport Pedag LEPE, Limeira, SP, Brazil; [Machado, Joao Claudio; Leonardo, Lucas] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Araujo, Duarte] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal; [Bedo, Bruno] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Bedo, Bruno] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Biomech & Motor Control Lab, Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Goes, Alberto Lobato] Univ Estadual Campinas, UNICAMP, Fac Phys Educ, Erico Verissimo Ave,701 Zeferino Vaz,Univ Campus 1, BR-083851 Campinas, SP, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001512120000001	46	Article; Article		
J	Jooste, Marcel; Sewry, Nicola; Valtonen, Maarit; Dyer, Marlise; Jordaan, Esme; Schwellnus, Martin								Clinical manifestations of different viral respiratory infections in athletes: implications for risk assessment and return-to-sport - AWARE VII study in 116 cases								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				54	1			1	10		10.1080/00913847.2025.2518748			JAN 2 2026	2026	Objectives: The aims of this study were to describe the etiology of acute respiratory infections (ARinf) in athletic individuals, and to identify differences in the clinical presentation, evidence of possible multi-organ involvement, and illness classification between common pathogen groups. Methods: One-hundred-and-sixteen cases of confirmed ARinf in athletic individuals were evaluated <= 5 days of the onset of an ARinf. Nasopharyngeal swab multiplex PCR testing was performed to identify a causative pathogen. Symptomatology, clinical examination findings, results of selected blood tests, and the clinical syndrome and illness severity classifications were compared between four common pathogen groups. Results: The etiologies of ARinf in this cohort were: rhinovirus = 34(29%), influenza = 17(15%), SARS-CoV-2 = 15(13%), common coronavirus = 13(11%), 'unidentified' = 16(14%), 'dual pathogen' = 9(8%), and 'other' = 12(10%). Clinical presentation differed among the four common pathogen groups as follows: Influenza had more total symptoms, lower respiratory & regional symptoms, and systemic & non-respiratory symptoms than rhinovirus (p <= 0.002) and common coronavirus (p < 0.05). Influenza and SARS-CoV-2 had higher total symptoms and systemic & non-respiratory symptom severity scores than rhinovirus (p <= 0.0006 and p < 0.03 respectively) and common coronavirus (p <= 0.03 and p = 0.02 respectively). Evidence of other non-respiratory organ involvement on clinical examination was highest for influenza (53%). Illness classification for pathogen groups differed: common coronavirus had the highest percentage (%) of rhinitis-like ('common cold') illnesses (69%), and influenza had the highest % of 'flu-like' illnesses (82%). Influenza had the highest % of severe illnesses (88%) and common coronavirus the lowest (31%). 41% of rhinovirus presented with severe illness. Conclusion: Influenza and SARS-CoV-2 had greater number and severity of symptoms than rhinovirus and common coronavirus. Among the four common pathogen groups, influenza had the highest percentage of abnormal clinical examination and serological findings and severe illnesses. Knowledge of the causative pathogen and the clinical presentation may add value to the risk assessment and guide clinical decision-making in return-to-sport following ARinf in athletic individuals.		[Jooste, Marcel; Sewry, Nicola; Dyer, Marlise] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Pretoria, South Africa; [Jooste, Marcel] Univ Pretoria, Sect Sports Med, Fac Hlth Sci, Pretoria, South Africa; [Sewry, Nicola; Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr South Africa, Sch Med, Fac Hlth Sci, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa; [Valtonen, Maarit] Finnish Inst High Performance Sport KIHU, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Jordaan, Esme] South African Med Res Council, Biostat Unit, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] Univ Western Cape, Stat & Populat Studies Dept, Cape Town, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr South Africa, Sch Med, Fac Hlth Sci, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001511476900001	31	Article; Article		
J	Hernandez-Simal, Lander; Larruskain, Jon; Kelly, Adam; Aurrekoetxea-Casaus, Maite								Talent hotspots and the role of community density in youth soccer: The unique case of Athletic Club de Bilbao situated in the Basque Country, Spain								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			499	508		10.1177/17479541251344589			FEB 2026	2026	Birthplace and the location of residence can impact young players' opportunities to engage in youth soccer developmental activities, varying considerably based on contextual influences. This study aimed to identify the 'talent hotspots' contributing the most players to the selection phases of Athletic Club de Bilbao-a unique professional soccer club in the Basque Country, Spain. To achieve this, we analyzed whether contextual variables-such as population density, proximity to the academy, family income, and the number of clubs within players' municipalities-significantly influenced player selection. Using logistic regression on data from 1411 male players (aged 9 to 35), we identified Bizkaia, the largest province in the Basque Country, as a statistically significant talent hotspot (p < 0.05). The Odds Ratio revealed that regions with an average population density between 150 and 650 male inhabitants aged 0-19 per km(2) were especially relevant during the selection process, showing statistically significant results in multiple incorporation stages. The findings suggest that scouting efforts should prioritize these densely populated areas, while also ensuring equitable access to organized youth soccer across all regions. Finally, the study highlights the role of the concept of 'sporting development' defined as the conditions and environments in which players develop their skills-as a critical variable in the talent selection process.		[Hernandez-Simal, Lander; Aurrekoetxea-Casaus, Maite] Univ Deusto, Bilbao, Spain; [Larruskain, Jon] Athlet Club, Med Serv, Lezama, Spain; [Kelly, Adam] Birmingham City Univ, Birmingham, England; [Hernandez-Simal, Lander] Univ Deusto, Avda Univ 24,48007 Bilbao, Bilbao 48080, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001511612000001	24	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Neiva, Henrique P.; Moriyama, Shin-Ichiro; Barbosa, Tiago M.								Swimming speed comparison between two distinct arm pulls during the butterfly swim stroke								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2197	2203		10.1177/17479541251350363			OCT 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to compare the butterfly swimming speed during the insweep phase of two distinct arm pull patterns. Ten national-level swimmers (5 males with 17.5 +/- 0.8-years and 5 females with 16.8 +/- 0.9-years) were analyzed while performing butterfly all-out trials based on two distinct arm-pull patterns ("bent" and "straight"). The "bent" arm-pull refers to the stroke kinematics they use to swim. The "straight" arm-pull refers to a more extended elbow than they used to swim. Based on discrete variables, swimming speed was faster in the "straight" than the "bent" arm-pull, but not significantly (p = 0.546). Non-significant differences were also noted for the remaining discrete variables. Conversely, Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM, continuous analysis) identified significant differences in swimming speed between similar to 42% and similar to 60% (insweep phase and the beginning of the upsweep phase; p = 0.001), and similar to 83% and similar to 87% (halfway through the release and recovery, respectively; p = 0.043) of the stroke cycle. SPM was more sensitive in identifying differences in swimming speed between arm pulls. Swimmers were faster while performing the "straight" arm pull than with the "bent" arm pull, predominately based on a faster swimming speed during the insweep phase.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Campus Sta Apolonia,Apartado 1101, P-5301856 Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Res Ctr Act Living & Wellbeing LiveWell, Braganca, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.; Neiva, Henrique P.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.; Neiva, Henrique P.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Moriyama, Shin-Ichiro] Tokyo Gakugei Univ, Fac Educ, Dept Hlth & Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Campus Sta Apolonia,Apartado 1101, P-5301856 Braganca, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001511406900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Tanabe, Yoko; Devonport, Tracey J.; Cloak, Ross J.; Lane, Andrew M.								Co-constructing confidence and performance: A study of athlete-coach beliefs in elite judo								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1839	1849		10.1177/17479541251346907			OCT 2025	2025	This study examined beliefs and self-confidence regarding performance factors among UK judo athletes and coaches. A total of 97 athletes (42 elite: 19 male, 23 female; 55 non-elite: 36 male, 19 female) and 61 coaches (31 elite: 25 male, 6 female; 30 non-elite: 23 male, 7 female) completed a 30-item scale based on the UK Coaching Framework (2009). The scale assessed perceived importance and confidence in five subscales: physical development, self-understanding, psychological preparation, relationships, and skills. Analysis revealed significant differences between athletes and coaches in their ratings of relationships, psychological preparation, skills, and self-understanding. Additionally, differences emerged based on biological sex for physical development, skills, and self-understanding. Through a mixed methods design qualitative insights highlighted that athletes value supportive coaching for enhancing self-confidence, while coaches emphasise understanding individual needs for effective training. These findings underscore the importance of a co-construction model that promotes athlete-coach collaboration in developing tailored support strategies to optimise overall performance outcomes.		[Tanabe, Yoko] Nihon Univ, Tokyo, Japan; [Tanabe, Yoko; Devonport, Tracey J.; Cloak, Ross J.; Lane, Andrew M.] Univ Wolverhampton, Wolverhampton, England; [Devonport, Tracey J.] Hartpury Univ, Gloucester, England; [Cloak, Ross J.] Univ Wolverhampton, Wolverhampton, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001511406100001	19	Article; Article		
J	Siltanen, Simo; Blomqvist, Minna; Hamalainen, Kirsi; Bottas, Reijo; Saakslahti, Arja								Assessing perceived effectiveness of vocational coach education programme: Identifying COM-B based barriers and enablers of behaviour change								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1794	1803		10.1177/17479541251346731			OCT 2025	2025	A systematic application of behaviour change models in the design and implementation of coach education programmes (CEPs), as well as related research, remains limited. These models could provide valuable insights to enhance the effectiveness of CEPs through targeted behaviour change interventions. The purpose of this study was to provide an understanding of the factors influencing coaches' behaviour change by assessing the impact of one to two years Vocational Coach Education Programme (vCEP) on perceived capability development and behaviour change of sports coaches. Factors promoting or hindering behaviour change were identified based on the COM-B (Capabilities, Opportunities, Motivation - Behaviour) model. The study was conducted via an online questionnaire among vCEP graduates (n = 65), representing approximately one-third of the eligible population during the data collection period. Findings revealed that coaches rated the effectiveness of vCEP in capability development and behaviour change to be relatively high, particularly in terms of Intrapersonal Knowledge, Developing Coaching Environment, and Athlete-centred Coaching. Based on the coaches' experience, the primary COM-B-based enabler of behaviour change was the enhanced capability, while the most common barrier to behaviour change was the lack of motivation. This study demonstrates that future interventions should focus on enhancing both capabilities and motivation and should be designed to stimulate a need for change.		[Siltanen, Simo; Bottas, Reijo; Saakslahti, Arja] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Blomqvist, Minna] Finnish Inst High Performance Sport KIHU, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Hamalainen, Kirsi] Haaga Helia Univ Appl Sci, Helsinki, Finland; [Siltanen, Simo] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001511411400001	28	Article; Article		
J	Ameur, Ridha; Ben Chikha, Houssem; Souissi, Chouhaid; Masmoudi, Liwa Abdelwaheb; Bragazzi, Nicola Luigi; Jarraya, Mohamed								The role of Ramadan fasting and mental fatigue on sleep and cognitive performance in kickboxers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			393	402		10.1177/17479541251348643			FEB 2026	2026	Intermittent fasting, particularly during the month of Ramadan, presents unique physical and psychological challenges, influencing various aspects of daily functioning, including sleep and cognitive performance. The aim of the present study was to assess the effect of intermittent fasting on sleepiness and sleep quality. In addition, it aims to examine its effects, when associated to mental fatigue on memory, vigilance and readiness for training in athletes. Twenty-five Tunisian kick-boxers completed self-administered questionnaires to evaluate sleepiness, sleep quality and duration, fatigue, vigilance, concentration, and motivation at three points: ten days before Ramadan, mid-Ramadan, and at its end. Overall, the results indicated that athletes reported improvements in somnolence, sleep quality, vigilance, concentration, and motivation by the end of Ramadan, despite stable sleep duration and consistent levels of fatigue across the three periods. Additionally, working memory, visual vigilance and reaction time performance were superior at the end of Ramadan compared to the other periods, regardless of whether the assessment occurred before or after the mental fatigue task. These findings contribute to the understanding of the complex interplay between fasting, sleep, mental fatigue and cognitive performance.		[Ameur, Ridha; Ben Chikha, Houssem; Masmoudi, Liwa Abdelwaheb; Jarraya, Mohamed] Univ Sfax, Educ Motr Sport & Hlth EM2S, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Sfax, LR19JS01, Sfax, Tunisia; [Ben Chikha, Houssem] Nantes Univ, Movement Interact Performance MIP, UR 4334, Nantes, France; [Souissi, Chouhaid] Univ Sfax, Fac Sci Sfax, Lab Probabil & Stat, Sfax, Tunisia; [Bragazzi, Nicola Luigi] Univ Parma, Dept Food & Drugs, Parma, Italy; [Ben Chikha, Houssem] Nantes Univ, Movement Interact Performance MIP, UR 4334, Nantes, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001510085900001	56	Article; Article		
J	Abraham, Alan; Feros, Simon A.; Fox, Aaron S.								Exploring the accuracy of OpenCap for three-dimensional analysis of cricket bowling								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2571	2586		10.1177/17479541251348081			DEC 2025	2025	This study explored the accuracy of pose estimation software, OpenCap, against a marker-based motion capture system for cricket bowling. Ten participants (nine male, one female; seven pace, three spin; nine right-arm, one left-arm; age = 22.8 +/- 4.1 years; height = 181.8 +/- 7.0 cm; body mass = 82.54 +/- 7.6 kg) bowled 48 deliveries with data simultaneously collected by OpenCap and marker-based motion capture. Shoulder (arm elevation plane, arm elevation angle and axial rotation), elbow (flexion), trunk (rotation, extension and lateral flexion), knee (flexion) and ankle (dorsiflexion) joint kinematics were extracted from back foot contact to ball release for each ball bowled. Average (+/- standard deviation) root mean squared error (RMSE) for each joint angle between OpenCap and motion capture was calculated. 95% limits of agreement were calculated for joint kinematics at back foot contact, front foot contact and ball release events. Of the 473 total trials completed, 217 trials were deemed successful across both OpenCap and motion capture. OpenCap had an average RMSE of 17.61 degrees (+/- 7.72 degrees) across all joint angles. OpenCap was able to most accurately determine knee kinematics (RMSE = 7.87 +/- 2.10 degrees) whilst upper limb kinematics were the least accurate (elbow RMSE = 22.71 +/- 7.31 degrees, arm elevation RMSE = 17.59 +/- 3.78 degrees, arm elevation plane RMSE = 28.92 +/- 5.32 degrees, shoulder axial rotation RMSE = 28.54 +/- 7.86 degrees). The relatively large error in upper limb kinematics and number of unsuccessful trials captured makes it challenging at present to recommend OpenCap for use in field-based analysis of cricket bowling kinematics.		[Abraham, Alan; Feros, Simon A.; Fox, Aaron S.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Australia; [Fox, Aaron S.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001509219300001	79	Article; Article		
J	Torres-Yasuire, Vladimir; Vitabar, Rodrigo; Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre; Alonso, Rafael; Fabrica, Gabriel								Cluster analysis on ball recovery and handling from top 5 European leagues reveals emerging tactical patterns in soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2454	2462		10.1177/17479541251349425			DEC 2025	2025	Although playing styles in soccer have been widely studied-both qualitatively and quantitatively-the identification of emergent patterns resulting from the combination of these playing styles has not yet been addressed through a quantitative approach. Applying cluster analysis based on performance indicators related only to ball recovery and ball handling from 1826 matches in 98 teams across the top five European leagues, we propose three game models associated with different combinations of defensive and attacking strategies. High-block recovery with sustained possession (game model 1, 20 teams), medium-block recovery with a direct attacking approach (game model 2, 33 teams), and low-block recovery with a counterattacking strategy (game model 3, 45 teams). Significant differences in ball handling and recovery were observed between models (p <= 0.05). Teams employing game model 1 achieved more points per match (1.94 +/- 0.4) and qualified more frequently for international tournaments, whereas teams employing game model 3 recorded fewer points per match (1.10 +/- 0.28) and more relegations. The Bundesliga dominated by game models 2 (39%) and 3 (44%), exhibited the most balanced representation of game models, while Ligue 1 had the most diverse prevalence of models (35%, 5%, and 60%). This study provides a novel methodological perspective by focusing on emerging playing patterns (models), encompassing playing styles and supporting the adaptation of tactical preparation and player profiling selection according to the characteristics of the opponent.		[Torres-Yasuire, Vladimir; Fabrica, Gabriel] Univ La Republ, Fac Med, Unidad Acad Biofis, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Vitabar, Rodrigo; Alonso, Rafael] Univ La Republ, Fac Med, Unidad Acad Metodos Cuantitat, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre] Univ Pavia, Dept Publ Hlth Expt & Forens Med, Human Locomot Lab LocoLab, Pavia, Italy; [Fabrica, Gabriel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Fabrica, Gabriel] Fac Med, Unidad Acad Biofis, Gen Flores 2125, Montevideo 11800, Uruguay								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001508853700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Asian-Clemente, Jose A.; Requena, Bernardo; Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente; Galiano, Carlos								Comparison of position and possession games attending to the positional external load. Does player specific position matters?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING											10.1177/17479541251347144				2025	The aims of our study were to compare the differences in external load between position and possession games according to player specific role, and to examine the external load demands of position games across player positions on different pitch sizes. 25 professional players were monitored using GPS during 18 possession (without positional roles) and position games (with positional roles). All games were played in a 9 vs. 9 + 2 floaters format, with each task occurring in Small (<60 m(2) per payer), Medium (60-90 m(2) per player), and Large (> 90 m(2) per player) sizes. Position games showed lower distance covered (DC) for Central-defenders, Fullbacks and Offensive midfielders, as well as reduced high-speed running among Central-defenders compared to possession games (p < 0.05). In contrast, position games presented larger maximal decelerations for Central-defenders (p < 0.001) and acceleration above 3 m<middle dot>s(-2) (ACC (>) (3)) in Fullbacks (p = 0.001) than possession games. In position games, regardless of the player's role, DC and peak speed was lower in Small (p < 0.05). High-intensity accelerations/decelerations showed a heterogeneous pattern, with Central-midfielders showed larger maximal decelerations/accelerations and ACC/DEC (>) (3) in Large than Medium. Offensive-midfielders showed larger maximal decelerations in Large and Medium than Small and more ACC (>) (3) in Large than Medium. Finally, Fullbacks performed more DEC (>) (3) in Large than Small while Forwards did in Small than Large (p < 0.05). Due to the variability in external load responses based on player positions, practitioners should consider the type and size of position games used to adjust players' external loads during training.		[Asian-Clemente, Jose A.; Requena, Bernardo; Galiano, Carlos] Football Sci Inst, FSI lab, Ave conocimiento 4,Oficina 405, Granada 18016, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose A.] Univ Pablo Olavide, Dept Sport Sci, Seville, Spain; [Beltran-Garrido, Jose Vicente] CEU Univ, Univ Cardenal Herrera CEU, Sch Humanities & Commun Sci, Dept Educ Sci, Castellon De La Plana, Spain; [Galiano, Carlos] Univ Loyola Andalucia, Dept Commun & Educ, Seville, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose A.] Football Sci Inst, FSI lab, Ave conocimiento 4,Oficina 405, Granada 18016, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001509040200001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Steenbok, Walter; Kubayi, Alliance; Morris-Eyton, Heather; Stone, Joseph A.; Didymus, Faye F.								Talent development and (dis)empowering coach-created motivational climates among South African youth football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2347	2354		10.1177/17479541251347021			DEC 2025	2025	The environments in which coaches help create have a significant influence on the development of talented players. Therefore, this study investigated perceptions of talent development environments (TDEs) and coach-created motivational climates among South African youth football players. A total of 112 male amateur players (M-age = 16.2 +/- 1.1 years; M-playing experience = 8.6 +/- 2.1 years) voluntarily completed the Talent Development Environment Questionnaire-5 and the Empowering and Disempowering Motivational Climates Questionnaire. The results showed that empowerment in coach-created motivational climates correlated strongly with three TDE dimensions: communication (r = .65, p < .01), long-term development (r = .61, p < .01) and alignment of expectations (r = .56, p < .01). There was also a strong relationship between disempowerment in coach-created motivational climates and the holistic quality dimension of TDE (r = .67, p < .01). Through multiple linear regression, long-term development (beta = .37, p < .01) and communication (beta = .41, p < .01) were found to be significant predictors of empowerment in coach-created motivational climates. Furthermore, holistic quality (beta = .64, p < .01) and alignment of expectations (beta = .22, p < .05) were found to be significant predictors of disempowerment in coach-created motivational climates. These results suggest that coaches should emphasise an atmosphere that supports learning and development pathways to create an environment with long-term goals that are clear, consistent, and coherent.		[Steenbok, Walter; Morris-Eyton, Heather] Univ Johannesburg, Dept Sport & Movement Studies, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, Pretoria, South Africa; [Stone, Joseph A.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Sheffield, England; [Didymus, Faye F.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, Pretoria, South Africa								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001509033700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Albiero, Paolo; Spina, Giulia; Paoletti, Flavia; Iannello, Nicolo Maria; Cucinella, Nicla; Ingoglia, Sonia; Camire, Martin								Initial development and validation of the Italian version of the coaching life skills in sport questionnaire (IT-CLSS-Q)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1863	1875		10.1177/17479541251347546			OCT 2025	2025	Several studies have stated that coaches' ability to teach life skills to their athletes intentionally is associated with various aspects of positive youth development. This study aimed to adapt and validate the English version of the Coaching Life Skills in Sport Questionnaire in the Italian context (IT-CLSS-Q), a tool developed to assess the intentionality of coaches in teaching and transferring life skills through sport. The original English version was adapted to Italian using the back-translation procedure. A sample of 590 youth sport coaches completed the IT-CLSS-Q. The confirmatory factor analysis confirmed the five-factor structure of the original questionnaire, and the reliability analyses demonstrated high internal consistency for all subscales. Measurement invariance testing showed consistency between groups with different coaching experience, while significant correlations with empathy and leadership self-efficacy supported the construct validity of the questionnaire. Overall, the results indicate that IT-CLSS-Q is a useful tool for evaluating life skills coaching in Italy, providing a foundation for future research and interventions to improve positive youth development through sport. Future research should include a more balanced representation of disciplines and genders, integrating athletes' perspectives and longitudinal studies to deepen understanding of the long-term impact of life skills transfer.		[Albiero, Paolo; Spina, Giulia; Paoletti, Flavia] Univ Padua, Dept Dev Psychol & Socialisat, Padua, Italy; [Iannello, Nicolo Maria] Pegaso Univ, Dept Psychol & Hlth Sci, Naples, Italy; [Cucinella, Nicla; Ingoglia, Sonia] Univ Palermo, Dept Psychol Educ Sci & Human Movement, Palermo, Italy; [Camire, Martin] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Albiero, Paolo] Univ Padua, Dept Dev Psychol & Socialisat, Padua, Italy								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001508830800001	55	Article; Article		
J	Braz, Diogo Salgado; Gouveia, Elvio R.; Teixeira, Diogo S.; Cid, Luis; Sarmento, Hugo; Monteiro, Diogo								How passion shapes motivation and promotes well-being in young football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2409	2416		10.1177/17479541251348441			DEC 2025	2025	This study examines the influence of passion on motivational regulation and subjective well-being in young footballers, drawing on the Dualistic Model of Passion (DMP), Self-Determination Theory (SDT), and Organismic Integration Theory (OIT). A total of 390 male youth football players (aged 13-17) completed validated measures assessing harmonious and obsessive passion, motivation regulation, life satisfaction, and affect. Structural equation modeling revealed that harmonious passion positively predicted self-determined motivation and negatively predicted non-self-determined motivation. In turn, self-determined motivation was associated with higher life satisfaction and positive affect, and lower negative affect. Obsessive passion demonstrated the opposite pattern. Mediation analyses confirmed the indirect effects of passion on well-being through motivational regulation. These findings underscore the importance of promoting harmonious passion and autonomous motivation to foster well-being in youth sports. Practical implications for coaches and sports psychologists are discussed, emphasizing strategies for cultivating adaptive passion and motivational profiles.		[Braz, Diogo Salgado; Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, P-3040248 Coimbra, Portugal; [Gouveia, Elvio R.] Univ Madeira, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Funchal, Portugal; [Gouveia, Elvio R.] Interact Technol Inst, Lab Robot & Engn Syst, Funchal, Portugal; [Teixeira, Diogo S.; Cid, Luis] Lusofona Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Lisbon, Portugal; [Teixeira, Diogo S.] Res Ctr Sport Phys Educ & Exercise & Hlth CIDEFES, Lisbon, Portugal; [Cid, Luis] Santarem Polytech Univ, Sport Sci Sch Rio Maior, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Cid, Luis; Monteiro, Diogo] Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Interdisciplinary Ctr Study Human Performance CIPE, Coimbra, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Polytech Univ Leiria, ESECS, Leiria, Portugal; [Braz, Diogo Salgado] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, P-3040248 Coimbra, Portugal								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001508854800001	52	Article; Article		
J	Aich, Agnideep; Bhattacharjee, Dibyojyoti; Saikia, Hemanta								Under pressure: Integrating machine learning to quantify clutch moments in American football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2473	2481		10.1177/17479541251350134			DEC 2025	2025	This study introduces a novel pressure index framework designed to quantify the intensity of crucial moments in an American football game. Our model integrates game-specific metrics such as time remaining, score differential, field position, and play context to establish quantitative measures of pressure on offensive and defensive units. The two proposed indices, viz, the composite offensive pressure index (PIO3) and defensive pressure index (PID) dynamically capture the evolving situational stress during a game. To validate and assess their predictive power, we employ machine learning techniques, including Logistic Regression, Random Forest, and Gradient Boosting models. Using play-by-play data from the 2023 NFL season, the results demonstrate that the ensemble learning methods outperform logistic regression, with Gradient Boosting achieving the highest predictive precision (AUC = 0.944) in forecasting drive success. This machine learning-driven framework provides new insights into situational dynamics and performance under pressure such as identifying pivotal clutch moments and quantifying critical drive transitions offering potential applications in advanced performance analysis, coaching strategies, and sports analytics research.		[Aich, Agnideep] Univ Louisiana Lafayette, Dept Math, Lafayette, LA 70504 USA; [Bhattacharjee, Dibyojyoti] Assam Univ, Dept Stat, Silchar, India; [Saikia, Hemanta] Assam Agr Univ, Dept Agr Stat, Jorhat, India; [Aich, Agnideep] Univ Louisiana Lafayette, Dept Math, Lafayette, LA 70504 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001509060600001	21	Article; Article		
J	Li, Ruixuan; Li, Zhaoqian; Zheng, Jintong; Guo, Yiran; Ou, Gaozhi								The acute effects and reproducibility of resistance training fatigue on load-velocity relationship variables								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	1			455	462		10.1177/17479541251346913			FEB 2026	2026	Since the load-velocity relationship was validated as a useful tool for assessing fatigue, its reliability and reproducibility have yet to be established, which are crucial for programming training plans and monitoring athletes' physiological status. Therefore, this study aimed to explore the acute effects of resistance training fatigue on load-velocity (L-V) relationship variables (maximal theoretical force capacity [L-0], maximal theoretical velocity capacity [v(0)], and maximal theoretical power capacity [A(line)]) under different set configurations and whether the fatigue was reproducible. Fourteen male athletes performed back squats at 80% of their one repetition maximum under 20% velocity loss across three sets configurations (6, 4, and 3 sets), with each configuration performed twice. L-V relationship variables were established in pre-fatigue and 15 min post-fatigue for all sessions. Fatigue resulted in significant decline in v(0)(F = 27.084, p < 0.001)and A(line)(F = 72.552, p < 0.001), but not in L-0 (F = 0.466, p = 0.508). The three set configurations produced similar fatigue levels for all L-V relationship variables. The effects of fatigue on L-V relationship variables were reproducible in all set configurations for all variables (ICC >= 0.759, CV <= 9.3%). The findings suggest that, under a fixed 20% VL, the acute effects of L-V relationship variables were reproducible from resistance training fatigue, no matter how many training sets were applied. Hence, the L-V relationship variables are a reliable tool to measure acute resistance training fatigue.		[Li, Ruixuan; Guo, Yiran; Ou, Gaozhi] China Univ Geosci Wuhan, Sch Phys Educ, Wuhan 430074, Peoples R China; [Li, Zhaoqian] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Zheng, Jintong] Wuhan Sports Univ, Sch Sports Med, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Guo, Yiran; Ou, Gaozhi] China Univ Geosci Wuhan, Sch Phys Educ, Wuhan 430074, Peoples R China								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001509049500001	36	Article; Article		
J	Brefin, Stefanie L.; Anderegg, Jan; Nigg, Claudio R.; Koschnick, David; Paul, Claudia; Ketelhut, Sascha								Examining the relationship of training load and menstrual cycle on a web application-based load and recovery score: A longitudinal observational study in elite women's soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2417	2426		10.1177/17479541251349332			DEC 2025	2025	Monitoring training load and recovery is crucial in team sports. Despite the increasing prevalence of professional women's sports, most monitoring methods fail to account for the menstrual cycle (MC). Given the potential influence of the MC on sports performance, training responses, and recovery, incorporating it into monitoring practices is essential. This study assessed the relationship between training load and a newly developed web application-based Load and Recovery Score (LRS) among elite female soccer players. Furthermore, it explored the potential influence of the MC on the individual training responses. Forty-nine female elite soccer players were recruited for this 6-week observational study. The LRS was recorded daily using a web application, and a subgroup of 34 players recorded their basal temperature every morning, using a digital thermometer. Training load was assessed based on trainer-intended ratings of perceived exertion. A significant negative relationship was found between training load and players' LRS (Est. = -0.009, 95% CI -0.011, -0.007, p < .001). When controlling for training load, no significant effect of the MC on players' LRS was found (F = 1.274, p = .283). The explained variance of both models was 46.59% and 50.07%, respectively, with a high proportion of variance attributed to random effects (43.67%, and 47.43% respectively). The LRS represents a multifactorial tool that depicts training load in terms of Trainer Session Rating of Perceived Exertion, helping coaches identify athletes' responses to training stimuli. While the MC did not show a significant effect on the LRS, systematic monitoring should still be considered, as its irregularity may indicate serious health problems.		[Brefin, Stefanie L.; Anderegg, Jan] Zurich Univ Appl Sci, Inst Physiotherapy, Sch Hlth Profess, Winterthur, Switzerland; [Brefin, Stefanie L.; Anderegg, Jan; Nigg, Claudio R.; Ketelhut, Sascha] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Hlth Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3013 Bern, Switzerland; [Koschnick, David] Free Univ Berlin, Dept Educ & Psychol, Div Hlth Psychol, Berlin, Germany; [Koschnick, David; Paul, Claudia] Commbuddy UG, Berlin, Germany; [Ketelhut, Sascha] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Hlth Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3013 Bern, Switzerland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001509062600001	38	Article; Article		
J	Mizushima, Jun; Kajitani, Ryosuke; Kuki, Seita								Negotiating academic and coaching identities: A case study of occupational socialization of a Japanese university track and field teacher-coach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2149	2158		10.1177/17479541251349095			OCT 2025	2025	This case study explores how a Japanese university teacher-coach developed an integrated professional identity encompassing teaching, research, and coaching. Drawing on Occupational Socialization Theory (OST), we examined how the participant-an academic faculty member who also serves as head coach of a competitive collegiate track and field team-made sense of and navigated overlapping institutional, cultural, and interpersonal expectations. Using a life-story methodology and three semi-structured interviews, data were analyzed through collaborative qualitative analysis, which emphasized co-interpretation with the participant and a co-author. Findings were presented across OST's three phases: acculturation, professional socialization, and organizational socialization. The participant's early exposure to teacher-coaches shaped relational and pedagogical foundations, while graduate training and institutional engagement enabled a gradual reframing of coaching as an academic practice. This study contributes to OST by illustrating identity integration as a recursive and culturally situated process. Practical implications highlighted how coach developers and institutions can better support multi-role professionals through mentoring, interdisciplinary collaboration, and structural recognition of coaching labor. The case also offers coaching-specific insights into balancing roles, applying research to training, and adapting to institutional demands and provides guidance for university teacher-coaches navigating identity complexity in similar high-performance university settings.		[Mizushima, Jun] Toyo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-7-11 Akabanedai,Kita Ku, Tokyo 1158650, Japan; [Kajitani, Ryosuke] Int Pacific Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Okayama, Japan; [Kuki, Seita] Osaka Univ Econ, Fac Human Sci, Osaka, Japan; [Mizushima, Jun] Toyo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-7-11 Akabanedai,Kita Ku, Tokyo 1158650, Japan								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001508835400001	24	Article; Article		
J	Sodhi, Kabir; Marshall, Samantha; Jeyarajan, Gianna; Hanna Al-Shaikh, Jennifer; Gabiazon, Raphael; Nagamatsu, Lindsay S.								Creativity in Motion: How a Single Aerobic Exercise Session Affects Divergent Creative Thinking								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			812	818		10.1080/02701367.2025.2513362			OCT 2 2025	2025	Creativity, a key cognitive process for innovation, involves generating novel and valuable ideas. While aerobic exercise is linked to cognitive benefits, its effects on creative thinking remain unclear. Evidence suggests that both single and consecutive exercise sessions may enhance creative thinking, yet the optimal intensity and timing of exercise for benefiting creative thinking have not been fully explored. This study examined whether a 20 minute moderate-to-vigorous cycle session influences divergent creative thinking, and how timing of assessment affects performance. Fifty-one young adults completed Guilford's Alternate Uses Task (AUT) under three conditions: post-exercise, during exercise, or control (after watching an exercise video). AUT performance was measured by fluency (number of ideas), validity (practicality of ideas), flexibility (number of categories), and originality (creativity ratings on a 1-5 scale). No significant differences between the control and post-exercise groups were found. However, those assessed during exercise showed lower originality, fluency, and validity, likely due to dual-task interference. These findings suggest that a 20 minute aerobic session does not enhance creativity and may hinder it when assessed during exercise. The study highlights the need for further research to clarify how exercise intensity, duration, and timing impact creative thinking to optimize potential cognitive benefits.		[Sodhi, Kabir; Marshall, Samantha; Jeyarajan, Gianna; Hanna Al-Shaikh, Jennifer; Gabiazon, Raphael; Nagamatsu, Lindsay S.] Western Univ, London, ON, Canada; [Marshall, Samantha] Western Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON N6G 2V4, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001509569000001	33	Article; Article		
J	de Castro Lopes, Ana Luiza; Sarro, Karine Jacon; Rodrigues, Isabella Martins; Bernardina, Gustavo Ramos Dalla; de Barros Sousa, Filipe Antonio; de Almeida Rodrigues, Natalia; Massaroni, Carlo; Schena, Emiliano; Silvestri, Sergio; Cerveri, Pietro; Silvatti, Amanda Piaia								Thoracoabdominal breathing pattern across exercise intensity domains: performance level insights in cyclists								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	3			468	483		10.1080/14763141.2025.2513474			MAR 4 2026	2026	Thoracoabdominal breathing pattern (THA) can be influenced by factors such as exercise intensity, postural demands, and individual variability, which could be associated with performance level. The present study aims to investigate the THA of cyclists with different performance levels during increasing exercise intensity. Fourteen male professional cyclists performed resting breathing manoeuvres and a step-incremental test on a cycle ergometer. Physiological responses were monitored using a metabolic gas analyser and were then classified into two groups: Higher and Lower VO2max. THA was recorded with an optoelectronic system. The contribution to tidal volume and the coordination of three compartments, namely superior thorax (ST), inferior thorax (IT), and abdomen (AB), were calculated. Higher VO2max group demonstrated a stable contribution across all intensity thresholds. Lower VO(2max )group increased the AB contribution by approximately 9% at both ventilatory thresholds from the start, while the rib cage contribution (ST + IT) decreased by approximately 17% from quiet breathing to exercise (p < 0.005). Coordination between ST vs. AB and IT vs. AB showed significant differences, with the Lower VO2max group demonstrating lower values and a greater effect size compared to the Higher VO2max group (p < 0.005). The present study provides valuable insights into how athletes of different performance levels employ distinct patterns of THA.		[de Castro Lopes, Ana Luiza; Sarro, Karine Jacon; Rodrigues, Isabella Martins] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Campinas, Brazil; [Bernardina, Gustavo Ramos Dalla] Univ Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [de Barros Sousa, Filipe Antonio; de Almeida Rodrigues, Natalia] Univ Alagoas, Inst Educ Fis & Esporte, Maceio, Brazil; [Massaroni, Carlo; Schena, Emiliano; Silvestri, Sergio] Univ Campus Biomed Roma, Unit Measurements & Biomed Instrumentat, Rome, Italy; [Cerveri, Pietro] Univ Pavia, Dept Ind & Informat Engn, Pavia, Italy; [Cerveri, Pietro] Politecn Milan, Dept Elect Informat & Bioengn, Milan, Italy; [Silvatti, Amanda Piaia] Univ Vicosa, Dept Phys Educ, Vicosa, Brazil; [de Castro Lopes, Ana Luiza] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Campinas, Brazil								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001509984700001	36	Article; Article		
J	Webster, Collin A.; Sollitto, Michael; Seiger, Lon								Portrayals of wellness and health promotion in Super Bowl commercials: a content analysis study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	1			45	62		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2024-0340			FEB 4 2026	2026	PurposeThe Super Bowl is the largest sporting event in the United States with vast reach for commercial advertising. Super Bowl commercials are a cultural phenomenon that has attracted investigative attention owing to their powerful place in American consumerism. Yet, little is known about wellness and health messaging in these commercials, despite the essential roles of health and wellness in people's lives and the potential for Super Bowl commercials to exert a major influence on viewers' behaviors and lifestyle choices. This study examined wellness and health promotion/inhibition messages in 130 Super Bowl commercials from 2023 and 2024.Design/methodology/approachGuided by established conceptualizations of wellness and health promotion, content analysis and qualitative methods were used to investigate message frequencies and patterns, as well as changes in messaging across different product/service categories.FindingsResults showed that emotional wellness was featured most frequently, while financial wellness appeared the least. About half of the commercials contained mixed messages about health promotion/inhibition. Distinct patterns were evident in the commercial content and the messaging changed across commercial categories.Originality/valueThis study lays the foundation for further exploring wellness and health messaging in Super Bowl commercials to understand how best to promote well-being and health through mega-events and mass media advertising.		[Webster, Collin A.; Seiger, Lon] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Dept Kinesiol, Corpus Christi, TX 78412 USA; [Sollitto, Michael] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Dept Commun & Media, Corpus Christi, TX USA; [Webster, Collin A.] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Dept Kinesiol, Corpus Christi, TX 78412 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001504615000001	76	Article; Article		
J	Thompson, Isobel M.; Audot, Dorian A. G.; Warner, Martin B.; Banks, Joseph; Logan, Oliver; Hudson, Dominic								Error assessment of a three-dimensional underwater motion capture methodology								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	4			485	501		10.1080/14763141.2025.2514234			APR 3 2026	2026	Motion analysis technology is used in various settings to assess human kinematics. Assessing human movement underwater presents many challenges, making it important to understand measurement error associated with the setup and calibration of the system ensuring accuracy in resulting kinematics. This study assessed the accuracy across the entire domain of a submerged motion capture methodology. Six Qualisys cameras created an underwater capture volume of 6.9 x 2.1 x 2.1 m3. Average error levels were acceptable in four uncertainty trials (<$ \pm $+/- 5 mm error). By selecting an area of interest that excluded areas with low accuracy near domain borders, measurement error reduced by up to 0.13 mm, up to 1.27 mm lower than outside this area. Interpolated error indicated that intracyclic measurement error may alter measured kinematics by up to 13.80 mm, with error greater than 5 mm affecting over 50% of the kick cycle. Investigating error levels across the domain can inform researchers whether a recalibration is necessary or help to identify areas where high error levels would affect kinematics. This study highlights the need to investigate error levels across a motion capture domain, particularly when this is a large volume, to ensure results obtained from investigations are reliable.		[Thompson, Isobel M.; Audot, Dorian A. G.; Banks, Joseph; Hudson, Dominic] Univ Southampton, Fac Engn & Phys Sci, Performance Sports Engn Lab, Maritime Engn, Southampton, England; [Warner, Martin B.] Univ Southampton, Sch Hlth Sci, Performance Sports Engn Lab, Southampton, England; [Logan, Oliver] Loughborough Univ, Aquat GB Sportpk, Loughborough, England; [Thompson, Isobel M.] Univ Southampton, Fac Engn & Phys Sci, Performance Sports Engn Lab, Maritime Engn, Southampton, England								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001505277500001	49	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Hansung; Ambrose, Michael; Thompson, Xavier D.; Cross, Kevin M.; Moler, Casey; Gwathmey, F. Winston; Werner, Brian C.; Su, Charles; Kuenze, Christopher								Comparison of patient-reported and objective functional measures during the early rehabilitative phase in patients with primary versus revision ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				88	95		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.05.010			JUL 2025	2025	Objectives: Few studies have determined how individuals who undergo a second ACL reconstruction (ACLR) perform in terms of objective and patient-reported outcomes in the early rehabilitation period compared to individuals who undergo primary ACLR. This study investigated the difference in strength and functional outcomes 3-5 months postoperatively in revision ACLR patients compared to primary ACLR patients. Design: Cross-Sectional Retrospective Chart Review. Setting: Single university-based orthopaedic practice. Participants: 143 patients who underwent ACLR (121 primary, 22 revision) Main outcome measures: Isokinetic knee extension and flexion strength at 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s, the IKDC, KOOS, and ACL-RSI 4.2 +/- 0.7 months after ACLR. Results: After controlling for age, sex, graft source, and time since surgery, there were no significant group differences for ACL-RSI (p = 0.771), IKDC (p = 0.950), and KOOS subscale scores (p = 0.335-0.740). Similarly, there were no significant group differences in isokinetic knee extension peak torque at 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s (p = 0.155, p = 0.147) and knee flexion peak torque 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s (p = 0.279, p = 0.325). Group LSIs were comparable for isokinetic knee extension and knee flexion. Conclusion: Three to five months postoperatively, revision ACLR patients performed similarly in terms of thigh strength, limb symmetry, and patient-reported function compared to primary ACLR patients.		[Lee, Hansung; Ambrose, Michael; Gwathmey, F. Winston; Werner, Brian C.; Su, Charles] Univ Virginia, Sch Med, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Thompson, Xavier D.] Louisiana State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Baton Rouge, LA USA; [Cross, Kevin M.; Moler, Casey] Univ Virginia, UVA Orthoped Ctr Therapy Serv, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Gwathmey, F. Winston; Werner, Brian C.; Su, Charles; Kuenze, Christopher] Univ Virginia, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 550 Brandon Ave, Charlottesville, VA 22902 USA; [Kuenze, Christopher] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, 550 Brandon Ave, Charlottesville, VA 22902 USA; [Kuenze, Christopher] Univ Virginia, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 550 Brandon Ave, Charlottesville, VA 22902 USA; [Kuenze, Christopher] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, 550 Brandon Ave, Charlottesville, VA 22902 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001506446300001	47	Article; Article		
J	Massey, Patrick; Hogan, Vincent								Different Strokes: Winning Strategies in Women's (and Men's) Big Bash Cricket								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	6			723	743		10.1177/15270025251348177			AUG 2025	2025	Women's professional sport has generally been underrated due to stereotypical perceptions that women are less skilled than men. If, as some experimental studies suggest, women perform less well under pressure than men, this may result in women adopting more cautious or defensive styles of play which fans find less attractive. We analyse winning strategies in the Australian Men's and Women's Big Bash Cricket Leagues (MBBL and WBBL) in order to assess whether the WBBL is characterised by more cautious/defensive playing strategies than the MBBL. The two leagues are (almost) identical in all aspects other than gender and thus provide an ideal environment to test for differences in playing strategies. Our results do not suggest that teams' playing strategies are more defensive in the WBBL than the MBBL. If anything, they indicate that attacking play is more likely to win in the WBBL.		[Massey, Patrick] Compecon Competit Econ, 37 Willowbank Pk,Rathfarnham, Dublin D14HW70, Ireland; [Hogan, Vincent] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Econ, Dublin, Ireland; [Massey, Patrick] Compecon Competit Econ, 37 Willowbank Pk,Rathfarnham, Dublin D14HW70, Ireland								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001501424100001	46	Article; Article		
J	Turgut, Merve; Atici, Emine; Aydin, Gamze								Effects of core stabilization exercises on trunk muscle strength, upper extremity performance, and balance in female wrestlers: A randomized controlled trial								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2596	2602		10.1177/17479541251346725			DEC 2025	2025	The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of core stabilization exercises on trunk muscle strength, upper extremity performance, and balance in female wrestlers. This prospective randomized controlled study included 20 female wrestlers (mean age:17.5 +/- 2.16 years). The participants were divided into two groups: the Core Stabilization Group (CSG) (n = 10), which performed a progressive core exercise program in addition to regular wrestling training, and the Control Group (CG) (n = 10), which continued with regular wrestling training only. Trunk muscle strength was assessed using an isokinetic dynamometer; upper extremity performance, with medicine ball throw test (MBTT), closed kinetic chain upper extremity test (CKC-UET), upper extremity Y-balance test (UE-YBT); balance with the functional reach test (FRT). Between-group comparisons revealed that the CSG had a greater improvement than the CG in 60 degrees trunk flexion, MBTT, and UEY-BT (eta 2 = 0.492, p = 0.004; eta 2 = 0.831, p = 0.014; eta 2 = 0.403, p = 0.032; eta 2 = 0.580, p = 0.038, respectively). The core stabilization exercises can improve trunk muscle strength, upper extremity performance, and balance in female wrestlers.		[Turgut, Merve] Istanbul Okan Univ, Inst Grad Educ, Div Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Atici, Emine; Aydin, Gamze] Istanbul Okan Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Div Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Aydin, Gamze] Istanbul Okan Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Div Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Istanbul, Turkiye								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001500740200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Dutta, Anirban; Gogoi, Jonali; Bhattacharjee, Dibyojyoti; Saikia, Hemanta								Quantifying defensive performance in football: A piecewise parametric survival approach to goal scoring time								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2438	2453		10.1177/17479541251347194			DEC 2025	2025	To a significant extent, strategy deployment in sports has become data-driven. This has given rise to the application of data analytics in different sports, and football is no exception. This paper models the performance of selected national football teams, ranked among the highest in the FIFA standings as of June 2023, while playing against significantly lower-ranked opponents (minnows). When minnows play a relatively stronger team, their prime concern is not to concede a goal, thereby organising a deep defensive line, making it difficult for the more vigorous opposition to score. Thus, considering the time to the first goal scored by a stronger team as a time to an event, parametric survival analysis is applied in this study to compare the performance of stronger football teams against minnows. The study finds that the hazard function is neither a monotonic function nor a bathtub curve; instead, it takes a zig-zag form. This calls for a piecewise fitting of the survival distribution, which provides a better fit than any standard survival distribution proposed in the literature. By fitting such piecewise survival curves for each selected national side, one can identify sides that can better handle the minnows in football.		[Dutta, Anirban; Gogoi, Jonali; Bhattacharjee, Dibyojyoti] Assam Univ, Dept Stat, Silchar 788011, Assam, India; [Saikia, Hemanta] Assam Agr Univ, Coll Sericulture, Dept Basic Sci & Humanities, Titabar, Jorhat, Assam, India; [Dutta, Anirban] Assam Univ, Dept Stat, Silchar 788011, Assam, India								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001500754200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Magee, Christopher								Crowds and Managerial Decisions in European Football Leagues								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	6			744	765		10.1177/15270025251348184			AUG 2025	2025	This paper examines the relationship between the size of crowds and substitution decisions made by managers in the top five European football leagues between 2017 and 2021. While the size of the crowd is unrelated to substitutions made by managers of the home team, the data show that managers of the away team make more defensive substitutions when they are playing against a team with a large crowd in its stadium. The result emerges both in comparing games with fans to ghost games during the pandemic and in comparing games with many fans to games with few fans in the pre-pandemic era. The conclusion that away managers are more defensive in their choices in the presence of large crowds is consistent with the theory that fans put social pressure on managers and that negative social pressure induces fear, which leads to pessimism and risk-averse decisions.		[Magee, Christopher] Bucknell Univ, Dept Econ, Lewisburg, PA 17837 USA; [Magee, Christopher] Bucknell Univ, Dept Econ, Lewisburg, PA 17837 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001500848200001	22	Article; Article		
J	Heffernan, Conor								The History and Evolution of the Back Squat in the United States								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	3			269	278		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000880			JUN 2025	2025	This article provides the first academic history of the barbell back squat and its evolution from a bodyweight exercise in the 19th century to a loaded exercise, used for a variety of purposes, in the present age. In doing so, the article highlights 3 key drivers in the evolution of the back squat-those being changes in equipment, the diversification of strength sports, and scientific communication concerning the safety and efficacy of the movement. The goal of this article was not to provide a dry and irrelevant history but rather to stress the complexity of the squat's prominence within fitness programs and the need to hold a nuance view toward the "optimal" way to approach this movement. In doing so, it examines how the movement evolved from 1 primarily done on the tips of one's toes, to a loaded movement on tippy toes, to a flat footed movement. By contextualizing the back squat's history, this article challenges rigid notions of "correct" squatting technique and encourages a more nuanced understanding of exercise selection in strength and conditioning practice. It concludes by highlighting the importance of critically examining the social construction of knowledge in fitness and sport, and the value of historical perspective in informing contemporary training practices.		[Heffernan, Conor] Ulster Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Belfast, North Ireland; [Heffernan, Conor] Ulster Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Belfast, North Ireland								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001503074900012	65	Article; Article		
J	Moore, Sam R.; Bruinvels, Georgie; Smith-Ryan, Abbie E.								Menstrual Cycle Phase-Based Strength and Conditioning Training for Elite Team Sport Female Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	3			340	352		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000879			JUN 2025	2025	Despite continued success, female athletes are still underresourced and minoritized in research and applied spaces. This has translated to disparate injury and health outcomes among female athletes resulting from a sport infrastructure built on male physiology. The purpose of this article is to propose an evidence- and experience-based menstrual cycle (MC) phase-based training model for practitioners working with elite female athletes in team sport. Here, we provide physiological rationale, privacy considerations, and best practices to support female-centric training. The following model proposes periodization based on a theorized capacity of adaptation rather than acute performance or symptomology alone because evidence suggests that performance changes across the MC may be highly individual. In addition, strength and conditioning programs are formulated to balance stressors and recovery in the pursuit of optimal adaptation, irrelevant of acute exercise performance. Finally, we identify future directions for applied practitioners and researchers, and the potential need for collaborative innovations between the communities. Creating a training model based on the physiology and experience of female athletes communicates to female athletes that they belong in sport and are worthy of our time, attention, and resources to improve their health, safety, and performance now and through active retirement.		[Moore, Sam R.; Smith-Ryan, Abbie E.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Appl Physiol Lab, Chapel Hill, NC 27514 USA; [Moore, Sam R.; Smith-Ryan, Abbie E.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Hlth Sci, Human Movement Sci Curriculum, Chapel Hill, NC 27514 USA; [Bruinvels, Georgie] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, Div Surg & Intervent Sci, London, England; [Smith-Ryan, Abbie E.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Appl Physiol Lab, Chapel Hill, NC 27514 USA; [Smith-Ryan, Abbie E.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Hlth Sci, Human Movement Sci Curriculum, Chapel Hill, NC 27514 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001503074900009	77	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Jason Chadwick; Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Guppy, Stuart N.; Haff, Guy Gregory								Using Python to Analyze Isometric Force-Time Curves								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	3			287	301		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000872			JUN 2025	2025	The isometric midthigh pull (IMTP) is a commonly used strength diagnostic tool that can give insight into an athlete's force-generating capacities. The resulting force-time curves generated are commonly analyzed using commercial software packages that provide a variety of metrics. Although these software packages are useful, they are often costly and operate as a "black box," limiting the control over how these metrics are calculated. A template created in Excel can be used to analyze isometric data. However, creating a custom script to analyze isometric trials can be more time-efficient. To provide users with an alternative analysis option, this article provides a guide for selecting IMTP force-time curves and variables for analysis and how to use Python to perform these analyses. Basic procedures are provided to ensure that accurate force-time curves are selected and analyzed, followed by strategies for using Python to read files, filter data, calculate force-time curve variables, graphically present data, and write results to a report are discussed. Although the script provided can be used to analyze the IMTP force-time curve data, it can be modified to examine other metrics as needed by the user (see, Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A412).		[Smith, Jason Chadwick] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Conway, SC 29528 USA; [Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Guppy, Stuart N.; Haff, Guy Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Strength & Power Res Grp, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Haff, Guy Gregory] Univ Salford, Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Manchester, England; [Smith, Jason Chadwick] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Conway, SC 29528 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001503074900010	37	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Xiaoyi; Wang, Yuming; Mei, Qichang; Shao, Shirui; Gu, Yaodong; Fernandez, Justin								Chasse-Step and One-Step Footwork Reported Different Biomechanical Profiles in Elite Table Tennis Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			453	462		10.52082/jssm.2025.453			JUN 2025	2025	Table tennis athletes are required to execute appropriate footwork moving to the best position to hit the ball, while the chasse-step and one-step are typically employed in table tennis. This study aims to examine the difference in joint angles, joint moments, joint contact forces, and activation of lower limb muscles during the stance of chasse-step and one-step. Eighteen male table tennis athletes volunteered to perform topspin forehand with chasse-step and one-step. An eight-camera motion capture system and instrumented force plate were used to record makers' trajectories and ground reaction force, which was then used to calculate the kinematics and kinetics with Inverse Kinematics and Inverse Dynamics in OpenSim. Surface electromyography signals were measured to validate the musculoskeletal OpenSim modeling. Hip flexion angle and moment increased in the backward swing phase during the stance of one-step. Knee extension of the chasse-step increased more during the forward swing phase. Hip contact force increased in the anterior-posterior direction of one-step and the chasse-step in the medial-lateral direction. Key findings suggest that the chasse-step may increase the quality of footwork performance and prepare the next step but shows higher injury risk in knee joints. While the one-step may have faster performance for scoring and high injury risk in hip joint. The information may provide implications for athletes and coaches to improve athletic performance and develop specific footwork training schemes to prevent potential injuries.		[Yang, Xiaoyi; Wang, Yuming; Mei, Qichang; Shao, Shirui; Gu, Yaodong; Fernandez, Justin] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 818 Fenghua Rd, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Yang, Xiaoyi; Wang, Yuming; Mei, Qichang; Shao, Shirui; Gu, Yaodong; Fernandez, Justin] Ningbo Univ, Res Acad Grand Hlth, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Yang, Xiaoyi; Mei, Qichang; Gu, Yaodong] Univ Auckland, Auckland Bioengn Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Fernandez, Justin] Univ Auckland, Dept Engn Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Mei, Qichang; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 818 Fenghua Rd, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001505125700018	44	Article; Article		
J	Nosrat, Cameron; Vallejo, Adrian; Djan, Kweku; Sibih, Youssef; Feeley, Brian T.; Pandya, Nirav K.								National Basketball Association Players' Return to Play and Performance After Operative Treatment of Meniscal Tears								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			363	369		10.52082/jssm.2025.363			JUN 2025	2025	Prior studies have examined return-to-play (RTP) rates and performance outcomes following meniscus surgery in professional basketball players but have largely focused on earlier eras. With advancements in surgical techniques, rehabilitation, and player management strategies, updated insights into postoperative outcomes are needed. We hypothesized that National Basketball Association (NBA) players would demonstrate a higher return-to-play (RTP) rate than the ~80% reported in 2010, with short-term performance declines but recovery by the second postoperative season. We also evaluated the impact of age, body mass index (BMI), and position on outcomes. NBA players who sustained isolated meniscal tears and underwent surgery between 2010 and 2023 were identified through public databases. Performance metrics-including games played, minutes per game (MPG), player efficiency rating (PER), and distance covered per game-were assessed preoperatively and at one and two years postoperatively. Multivariable linear regression analyzed associations between age, BMI, position, and outcomes. Of 47 eligible players, 43 (90.7%) returned to NBA play. Players missed a median of 17 +/- 34 games postoperatively and continued their careers for an average of 4.7 +/- 3.4 seasons. The percentage of games played per season significantly declined at one (60.9%, p < 0.001) and two years (64.2%, p < 0.01) postoperatively versus pre-injury (79%), a novel finding. MPG and PER declined at one year (22.3 vs. 26.0, p = 0.02; 14.6 vs. 16.4, p = 0.04) but recovered by year two (23.8 MPG, 15.8 PER; both p > 0.1). Older age correlated with reduced games played, MPG, and PER. BMI and position had no significant impact. NBA players demonstrate high RTP rates after meniscus surgery. While playing time and efficiency recover by year two, reduced availability persists, likely reflecting ongoing workload management strategies.		[Nosrat, Cameron; Vallejo, Adrian; Djan, Kweku; Sibih, Youssef; Feeley, Brian T.; Pandya, Nirav K.] Univ Calif San Francisco, Dept Orthopaed Surg, San Francisco, CA 94118 USA; [Nosrat, Cameron] Univ Calif San Francisco, Dept Orthopaed Surg, San Francisco, CA 94118 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001505125700013	29	Article; Article		
J	Wei, LiXin; Zheng, Yafei; Li, MingBang; Dai, Shu Hong								Testing The Effects of Player Matching in Basketball Matches and Small-Sided Game Training Scenarios Based on The Relative Age Effect: A 6-Month Study on Physical Performance and Skill Adaptations								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			397	405		10.52082/jssm.2025.397			JUN 2025	2025	Identifying strategies to mitigate the impact of the Relative Age Effect (RAE) on the development of youth basketball players is crucial. This study aimed to compare two methods of player grouping during competitive small-sided games and match scenarios in training sessions, focusing on their impact on physical performance and technical skill development: mixed birthdate quartiles (CON) versus structured grouping based on birthdate quartiles (BG) over a 6-month period. A randomized controlled trial was conducted with forty-one youth basketball players (age: 12.9 +/- 0.7 years) at a trained/developmental level. Throughout the study, participants in the BG group (n = 20) were assigned to small-sided games or match competition scenarios based on their birthdate quartiles, while those in the CON group (n = 21) were grouped with players from mixed quartiles. Players were evaluated at baseline and after the 6-month period for physical performance using countermovement jump (CMJ), change-of-direction (COD), and aerobic capacity (YYIRT). Additionally, they were assessed for technical skills in shooting, passing, and dribbling tests. Comparisons were made based on both birthdate quartiles (quartiles q1-2 relatively older, and q3-4 relatively younger players) and group. After 6 months, the CONq3q4 covered a shorter YYIRT distance than the CONq1q2 group (p = 0.040), achieved a lower CMJ height than both the CONq1q2 (p = 0.024) and BGq1q2 groups (p = 0.019), and had a greater COD deficit than the CONq1q2 group (p = 0.046). Additionally, the CONq3q4 group had longer dribbling times than the CONq1q2 (p = 0.002), BGq1q2 (p = 0.004), and BGq3q4 (p = 0.009) groups. In skill assessments, the CONq3q4 group scored lower in passing than both the CONq1q2 (p = 0.015) and BGq1q2 groups (p = 0.025), and scored lower in shooting compared to the CONq1q2 (p = 0.019), BGq1q2 (p = 0.003), and BGq3q4 (p = 0.003) groups. Grouping youth basketball players based on birthdate quartiles during training can mitigate the relative age effect, promoting more equitable physical and technical development by reducing age-related biases. However, these conclusions are limited by the study's duration and require further research over the long term.		[Wei, LiXin; Li, MingBang] Geely Univ China, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Yafei] ChengDu Sports Univ, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China; [Dai, Shu Hong] Sichuan Univ Sci & Technol, Chengdu 611745, Peoples R China; [Dai, Shu Hong] Sichuan Univ Sci & Technol, Chengdu 611745, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001505125700016	36	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Xiaoya; Wu, Jianxin; Liang, Dun; Ruan, Bin; Gao, Qi								Effects of Different Intervention Methods on Postural Control in Athletes with Chronic Ankle Instability: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			332	340		10.52082/jssm.2025.332			JUN 2025	2025			[Zhang, Xiaoya; Wu, Jianxin; Ruan, Bin; Gao, Qi] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Med & Rehabil, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Liang, Dun] Shenzhen Prevent & Treatment Ctr Occupat Dis, Shenzhen, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Gao, Qi] 48 Xinxi Rd, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001505125700010	53	Article; Article		
J	Takabayashi, Tomoya; Edama, Mutsuaki; Inai, Takuma; Kubo, Masayoshi								Effects of ankle joint biomechanics and foot postures on Achilles tendon force during running through a simulation study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2722	2732		10.1080/14763141.2025.2511758			SEP 2 2025	2025	Achilles tendinopathy is a prevalent injury observed among runners. Achilles tendon force (ATF) and differences in foot posture are considered factors in the occurrence of Achilles tendinopathy. This study was conducted using computer simulations. The simulation ranges were determined for the ankle joint angle (-25 degrees to + 25 degrees) and plantarflexion moment (0-160 Nm) at variable running speeds using a public dataset. The ankle angle was used to compute the Achilles tendon moment arm. Moment arms specific to the normal foot, pes cavus, and pes planus were calculated using radiographs from a previous study. Finally, the plantarflexion moment was divided into moment arms to obtain the ATF. For all foot postures, the ATF increased as the ankle dorsiflexion angle and plantarflexion moment increased. At most ankle angles, the ATF was found to be higher value in the order of pes cavus, normal foot, and pes planus. Increasing dorsiflexion angles and plantarflexion moments during running may lead to the occurrence or worsening of Achilles tendon tendinopathy. Additionally, individuals with pes cavus are more likely to develop Achilles tendinopathy than those with other foot postures.		[Takabayashi, Tomoya; Edama, Mutsuaki; Kubo, Masayoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Inai, Takuma] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Hlth & Med Res Inst, Dept Life Sci & Technol, QOL & Mat Res Grp, Takamatsu, Japan; [Takabayashi, Tomoya] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001499655500001	32	Article; Article		
J	Ikeda, Naoki; Hiratsuka, Kazuya; Isaka, Tadao								Effect of 12-Week Dynamic Stretching of Ankle Plantar Flexors on Joint Flexibility and Musculoskeletal Properties in The Contralateral Muscle								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			326	331		10.52082/jssm.2025.326			JUN 2025	2025	Dynamic stretching (DS) is a conditioning technique commonly used in sports. However, its effects on contralateral joint flexibility and elastic properties of the targeted muscle over several weeks remain unclear. Similarly, its impact on muscle functions, such as force or power exertion, is poorly understood. This study aimed to examine the effects of a 12-week DS program targeting the ankle plantar flexors on the joint flexibility, muscle strength, and elastic properties of the plantar flexors in stretched and contralateral legs. Eighteen healthy young adults (12 males and six females, aged 18 - 24 years) participated in this study. DS was performed on one leg of the ankle plantar flexors for 12 weeks (3 days weekly), while the other leg served as a non-intervention. Dorsiflexion range of motion (DFROM), muscle stiffness, and ankle plantar flexion strength (rate of torque development and isokinetic muscle strength) were assessed before and after the intervention. The muscle stiffness was measured using shear wave elastography on the gastrocnemius. DFROM significantly increased in both conditions (p < 0.05), whereas gastrocnemius stiffness significantly decreased only in the DS condition (p < 0.05). No significant changes were observed in the non-intervenment and isokinetic strength did not change in either condition. These findings suggest that 12 weeks of DS can reduce muscle stiffness and improve joint flexibility without affecting muscle strength while enhancing contralateral joint flexibility without altering muscle stiffness or strength.		[Ikeda, Naoki] Ritsumeikan Univ, Inst Gen Educ, Kusatsu, Japan; [Hiratsuka, Kazuya] Hachinohe Gakuin Univ, Fac Hlth Care, Hachinohe, Japan; [Isaka, Tadao] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Ikeda, Naoki] Ritsumeikan Univ, Inst Gen Educ, Kusatsu, Japan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001472622000001	22	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Yongliang; Wang, Yanyan; Qian, Kun								Combined Vs. Single Supplementation of L-Citrulline and Sodium Bicarbonate During Sprint Interval Training in Basketball Players: Effects on Physical Performance and Hormonal Adaptations								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			258	268		10.52082/jssm.2025.258			JUN 2025	2025	This study examined the effects of L-citrulline (L-CIT) and sodium bicarbonate (Sb) supplementation during short sprint interval training (SSIT), both individually and combined, over a 28day period, to assess the impact on the physical performance and hormonal adaptations of basketball players. Forty young (age = 21.5 +/- 1.7 years) male basketball players were randomly assigned into five groups of eight subjects including either L-CIT (6 g daily), Sb (0.3 g<middle dot>kg-1 of Sb daily), L-CIT+Sb, placebo (PL), and or an active control group (CON). The training groups engaged in SSIT sessions, consisting of three sets of ten repetitions of fivesecond all-out sprints, three times per week over four weeks. A series of physical performance tests including countermovement vertical jump, a 20-m linear sprint, Illinois change of direction speed, Wingate anaerobic power, and an incremental exercise test were conducted before and after the training period. In addition, blood samples were obtained to analyze resting testosterone and cortisol levels before and after the training period. Significant improvements in physical performance were observed across all training groups after the 4-week intervention (p < 0.05). Notably, the groups receiving supplements exhibited more pronounced improvements in the physical performance tests (p < 0.01) in comparison to the PL group, indicating superior adaptations. In addition, no significant (p > 0.05) changes were seen in testosterone, comparison to a placebo.		[Wang, Yongliang; Wang, Yanyan] Criminal Invest Police Univ China, Police Skills & Tact Training Dept, Shenyang, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Qian, Kun] Shenyang Normal Univ, Coll Sports Sci, Shenyang, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Qian, Kun] Shenyang Normal Univ, Coll Sports Sci, Shenyang, Liaoning, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001455146000001	63	Article; Article		
J	Weaver, Adam P.; Saper, Michael; Brown, Matthew; Crepeau, Allison; Roman, Dylan P.								Association between psychological readiness to return to sport and self-reported function in adolescents after shoulder stabilization								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				83	87		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.05.002			JUL 2025	2025	Objectives: To examine differences in psychological readiness and self-reported function based on pre-operative risk factors at time of return to sport (RTS) after adolescent shoulder stabilization. Our secondary purpose was to assess the relationship between pre-operative shoulder instability history and psychological readiness at time of RTS testing. Design: Multi center retrospective cross-sectional study. Setting: Pediatric hospital. Participants: 52 participants (65 % male; 16.5 +/- 1.3 years old; 5.9 +/- 1.0 months post-surgery). Main outcome measures: Shoulder Instability Return to Sport after Injury scale (SI-RSI), Quick-Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder, Hand (QuickDASH), number of pre-operative instability episodes. Results: Median SI-RSI score was 75.4 IQR (62.5-88.3) at time of RTS testing. Females reported significantly lower SI-RSI scores compared to males (65.0, IQR: 50.9-79.2 vs 77.9, IQR: 65.7-90.1; p = 0.034). There were no significant differences in SI-RSI scores in patients with greater than 3 instability events compared to patients with 1 or 2 instability events (p = 0.866). SI-RSI and QuickDASH scores displayed a moderate negative correlation (r = -0.51, p = 0.001). Conclusion: Males and females after shoulder stabilization surgery report differences in psychological readiness at time of RTS. Pre-operative instability history was not related to SI-RSI scores at time of RTS testing, but SI-RSI scores are related to subjective function.		[Weaver, Adam P.; Roman, Dylan P.] Connecticut Childrens, Dept Sports Phys Therapy, Farmington, CT 06030 USA; [Saper, Michael] Seattle Childrens, Dept Sports Med, Seattle, WA USA; [Weaver, Adam P.; Brown, Matthew; Crepeau, Allison] Connecticut Childrens, Dept Sports Med, Farmington, CT 06030 USA; [Weaver, Adam P.] Connecticut Childrens, 399 Farmington Ave, Farmington, CT 06030 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001504737900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Kons, Rafael L.; Gulias, Vinicius de O. S.; Detanico, Daniele								Technical variability partially explains success at the Paris 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2204	2208		10.1177/17479541251343270			OCT 2025	2025	Research on performance variability in judo particularly at the Olympic and Paralympic levels have provided valuable insights, especially regarding technical-tactical aspects of elite athletes. Building on this perspective, this study aimed to examine whether variability in standing and groundwork techniques could predict performance (measured by win ratios) in judo athletes competing at the Paris 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games. Data were obtained from official match records published in the Official Result Books at the Paris 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games. For each athlete, variability in both standing and groundwork techniques was calculated. A multiple linear regression analysis was conducted to assess the relative contributions of technical variability in these domains to competitive success (win ratio) with a significance level set at 5%. The findings revealed that variability in standing techniques accounted for 59% of the win ratio in Olympic athletes, while groundwork variability explained 33%. In Paralympic athletes, standing variability contributed 59%, and groundwork variability accounted for 37%. These factors together explained 47% and 56% of the win ratios in Olympic and Paralympic judo, respectively. The results highlight the importance of technical variability as a key factor in competitive success, particularly in adapting to dynamic match conditions.		[Kons, Rafael L.; Gulias, Vinicius de O. S.] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Educ, BR-40110100 Salvador, BA, Brazil; [Detanico, Daniele] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports CDS, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael L.] Univ Fed Bahia, Fac Educ, Dept Educ, BR-40110100 Salvador, BA, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001498669800001	26	Article; Article		
J	Nordez, A.; Delhaye, C.; Teissier, F.; Colloud, F.; Peyrot, N.; Samozino, P.								Force-velocity and power-velocity relationships in on-water rowing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2750	2765		10.1080/14763141.2025.2511765			SEP 2 2025	2025	Force-velocity (FV) relationships are used to evaluate athletes and individualise training in several tasks. In rowing, only one previous study has determined FV relationships using ergometers. This study aimed to develop a method to obtain FV relationships during on-water rowing, to assess their quality and inter-day reliability and to compare them with ergometer profiles. Fourteen participants performed 8 all-out starts in instrumented double scull boats with 3 scull lengths under two conditions: two active rowers or one active and one passive rower. The FV relationships, reconstructed with all the conditions, were linear with a high goodness of fit (median R2: 0.96), covering 24.6 +/- 5.0% of the velocity range. Ninety-five per cent confidence intervals for maximal force (F0: 3.9 +/- 0.5%) and maximal velocity (V0: 6.2 +/- 1.5%) were relatively narrow. The coefficient of variation for inter-day reliability was below 10% and intraclass correlation ranging from 0.69 for V0 to 0.96 for F0. Correlations between on-water and ergometer rowing were significant for F0 (r = 0.70) and Pmax (r = 0.82) but not for V0 (r = 0.11). F0 and V0 were significantly higher (23%) and lower (31%) on the ergometer, respectively. These results highlight a reliable linear FV relationship during on-water rowing to characterise rowing force production capacities, largely affected by on-water technical skills.		[Nordez, A.; Teissier, F.; Peyrot, N.] Nantes Univ, Le Mans Univ, Movement Interact Performance, MIP,UR 4334, Nantes, France; [Nordez, A.] Inst Univ France IUF, Paris, France; [Delhaye, C.; Samozino, P.] Univ Savoie Mont Blanc, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, EA 7424, Chambery, France; [Colloud, F.] Inst Biomecan Humaine Georges Charpak, Arts & Metiers Inst Technol, Paris, France; [Nordez, A.] Nantes Univ, Le Mans Univ, Movement Interact Performance, MIP,UR 4334, Nantes, France; [Nordez, A.] Inst Univ France IUF, Paris, France								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001498149100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Moon, Griffin R.; Leary, Brian K.; Nguyen, Anh-Dung; McCrory, Jean L.								A comparison of running biomechanics on track, asphalt, grass, and treadmill using wearable sensors								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2766	2778		10.1080/14763141.2025.2511766			SEP 2 2025	2025	Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs) allow assessment of running biomechanics outdoors on various surfaces. The purpose of our study was to compare peak tibial acceleration (PTA), stance time (ST), stride frequency (SF), and maximum rearfoot eversion velocity (MREV) when running on asphalt, track, grass, and on a treadmill. Twenty healthy participants ran on each surface at their self-selected speed. IMUs were placed on their right tibia and posterior aspect of their right shoe. A timing system was used to ensure consistent speed between surfaces. Thirty steps from each surface were analysed. Separate repeated measures ANOVAs or Friedman tests were performed on each dependent measure, depending on normality. Post-hoc analyses were performed when appropriate. SF, PTA, and MREV differed (p < .001) between surfaces. SF was highest on treadmill (83.4 +/- 5.4 strides/sec) and slowest on grass (81.0 +/- 4.2 strides/min). PTA was greater outdoors (asphalt: 11.0 +/- 2.7 g, grass: 10.7 +/- 3.4 g, and track: 10.6 +/- 2.3 g), but less on treadmill (7.9 +/- 1.6 g). MREV was lowest on grass (394.9 +/- 256.5 deg/s) and greatest on track (623.5 +/- 299.3 deg/s) and asphalt (620.7 +/- 289.1 deg/sec). ST did not differ between surfaces (p = .231). Laboratory-based studies on running biomechanics may not reflect the running gait used on outdoor running surfaces.		[Moon, Griffin R.; Leary, Brian K.; McCrory, Jean L.] West Virginia Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Nguyen, Anh-Dung] Frostburg State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Frostburg, MD USA; [McCrory, Jean L.] West Virginia Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001498636700001	47	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Castillo-Rodriguez, Alfonso; de la Cruz Marquez, Juan Carlos; Badicu, Georgian; Martinez-Aranda, Luis Manuel								Playing for breath: How particulate pollution affects cardiorespiratory performance in youth soccer under the "cleaner air, better game" initiative								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1491	1500		10.1177/17479541251340485			AUG 2025	2025	The UEFA campaign "Cleaner Air, Better Game" initiated in 2021 highlights the detrimental effects of particulate pollution on cardiorespiratory fitness and overall performance in soccer players. This study examined variations in maximal oxygen uptake ( V (center dot) O 2 max) among 92 young soccer players from two villages with differing pollution levels. Utilizing a longitudinal design with pre- and post-exposure measurements, participants were divided into an experimental group (EG, n = 46) from a polluted area and a control group (CG, n = 46) from a cleaner environment. Evaluations were conducted using the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test to determine V (center dot) O 2 max. The EG exhibited a significant improvement of 12.35% in V (center dot) O 2 max compared to 1.97% in the CG, with statistical significance at p < 0.001. Initial V (center dot) O 2 max levels were lower in the EG (t = 2.589; p < 0.05), but post-test values surpassed those of the CG (t = -3.380; p < 0.01). These findings suggest that high particulate pollution adversely impacts V (center dot) O 2 max in young soccer players. Future research should explore long-term effects of air quality on athletic performance and develop strategies to mitigate pollution exposure during training.		[Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas; Castillo-Rodriguez, Alfonso; de la Cruz Marquez, Juan Carlos] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Viana do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Res Ctr Sports Performance Recreat Innovat & Techn, Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Badicu, Georgian] Univ Transilvania Brasov, Dept Phys Educ & Special Motr, Brasov, Romania; [Martinez-Aranda, Luis Manuel] Univ Pablo Olavide, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Martinez-Aranda, Luis Manuel] Univ Pablo Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Sci Based Training Res Grp SEJ 680, Seville, Spain; [Martinez-Aranda, Luis Manuel] Univ Pablo Olavide, Fac Sports Sci, Seville 41013, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001497892800001	30	Article; Article		
J	Hernandez-Pena, Keb Tonantzin; Menayo, Ruperto; Gea-Garcia, Gemma M.								Analysis of visual fixations of novice vs. expert basketball players in triple threat situations based on defensive context								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2489	2497		10.1177/17479541251342226			DEC 2025	2025	The objective of this research was to analyze the duration of visual fixations of novice and expert basketball players before executing a motor action in a triple-threat situation while facing four defensive formations: man-to-man defense, 2-3 zone, 1-2-2 zone, and 1-3-1 zone. The results showed that man-to-man defense required more fixation time for expert offensive players when facing the 2-3 zone. Additionally, expert players exhibited significantly shorter fixation times compared to novices when facing the 2-3 and 1-2-2 defenses. The complexity of defensive movements and the constant pressure in man-to-man defense could be a determining factor that caused longer fixation times in expert players compared to the 2-3 defense, which has predetermined defensive positioning zones that may facilitate reading the game. On the other hand, the shorter visual fixations in expert players compared to novices in the 2-3 and 1-2-2 defenses highlight the importance of experience in developing efficient visual search strategies in basketball.		[Hernandez-Pena, Keb Tonantzin] Escuela Nacl Entrenadores Deport, Teacher Training Ctr, Ciudad De Mexico, Mexico; [Menayo, Ruperto] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ & Psychol, Avda Elvas S N, Badajoz 06006, Extremadura, Spain; [Gea-Garcia, Gemma M.] Univ Seville, Fac Educ Sci, Seville, Andalucia, Spain; [Menayo, Ruperto] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ & Psychol, Avda Elvas S N, Badajoz 06006, Extremadura, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001497437600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Medeiros, Diulian Muniz; Robaina, Bruno de Quadros; Rigotti, Vanda Virginia Wolf; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini								Resistance training with linear periodization is superior to the '3x10 reps protocol' after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: a randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				75	82		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.05.009			JUL 2025	2025	Objective: To investigate the effects of linear periodization (LP) resistance training after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Setting: Physiotherapy clinic. Participants: Male recreational athletes who underwent ACLR. Main outcome measures: Knee extensor and flexor isometric strength, hop tests performance, patient-reported function (International Knee Documentation Committee, IKDC), and psychological readiness (Anterior Cruciate Ligament - Return to Sport after Injury, ACL-RSI). Results: Twenty-two participants (mean age 27 +/- 6 years) were randomized to either a LP program or the traditional '3x10 reps protocol'. The LP group demonstrated greater knee extensor strength gains compared to the 3x10 group (p = 0.03): 51 % (95 %CI, 28 to 73) vs. 26 % (95 %CI, 11 to 40). No statistically significant difference (p = 0.11) in knee flexor strength gains was observed between the LP group (45 %; 95 % CI, 18 to 71) and the 3x10 group (23 %; 95 % CI, 7 to 39). Six months after ACLR, the LP group exhibited a greater knee extensor limb symmetry index (97 +/- 10 % vs. 85 +/- 11 %, p < 0.01) and higher ACL-RSI scores (68 +/- 18 vs. 53 +/- 14, p = 0.04). No significant between-group differences were found in hop performance or IKDC scores (p > 0.05). Conclusion: A resistance training program incorporating block-structured LP is more effective than the traditional '3x10 reps protocol' in enhancing knee extensor strength and psychological readiness during ACLR rehabilitation.		[Medeiros, Diulian Muniz; Robaina, Bruno de Quadros; Rigotti, Vanda Virginia Wolf; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Sarmento Leite St 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001501724800001	44	Article; Article		
J	Li, Bo; Scott, Olan K. M.; Wang, Pei; Mo, Jiyan								Five rings, two worlds: untangling motivational differences between American and Chinese customers during the 2020 and 2022 Olympic Games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	5			1031	1049		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2024-0218			DEC 5 2025	2025	PurposeGuided by the uses and gratifications theory, this study aims to investigate the motivational differences between American and Chinese Olympic audiences.Design/methodology/approachSurveys conducted on both the 2020 Tokyo Summer Games and the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics revealed significant differences in media consumption between American and Chinese Olympic audiences.FindingsChinese audiences used more social media and digital media, while American audiences consumed more TV and print media to obtain Olympic news. Additionally, the study highlighted the motivational differences: Chinese audiences exhibited higher levels of patriotism motives, while American audiences were more motivated by entertainment, aesthetics, eustress, escape, group affiliation and family needs. The motives also influenced media consumption prediction differently for each group.Originality/valueThe study advances our understanding of the diversity of the Olympic media markets and reinforces how markets can shape users' behaviors and motivations.		[Li, Bo] Southern Methodist Univ, Dept Appl Physiol & Sport Management, Dallas, TX USA; [Scott, Olan K. M.] Brock Univ, Dept Sport Management, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Wang, Pei] Bowling Green State Univ, Dept Appl Stat & Operat Res, Bowling Green, OH USA; [Mo, Jiyan] Guangdong Univ Finance & Econ, Sch Humanities & Commun, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Mo, Jiyan] Guangdong Univ Finance & Econ, Sch Humanities & Commun, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001495411900001	63	Article; Article		
J	Ghanbari, Ashna; Vienneau, Jordyn; Nigg, Sandro R.; Nigg, Benno M.								Effects of selected features of advanced footwear technology on lower limb joint work								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2707	2721		10.1080/14763141.2025.2508244			SEP 2 2025	2025	The objective of this study was to isolate the effects of two key components of Advanced Footwear Technology, the curved carbon fibre plate and the midsole material, on lower-limb joint work. Sixteen male recreational runners ran overground at a speed of 3.9 (+/- 5%) metres per second in three shoe conditions: a standard Nike Vaporfly 4% (Original VP4), a modified version without the curved carbon fibre plate (No Plate) and a version with the PEBA midsole material replaced with EVA foam (EVA). Motion capture and force platform data were recorded to determine positive and negative metatarsophalangeal, ankle, knee, and hip joint work, and positive and negative foot + footwear work across the different conditions. Removing the carbon fibre plate significantly increased negative work at the metatarsophalangeal joint and positive work at the ankle. Replacing PEBA with EVA significantly reduced positive foot + footwear work. The findings of this study highlighted a group effect of the curved carbon fibre plate, which redistributed positive lower-limb joint work from the ankle to the metatarsophalangeal joint. Conversely, the results highlighted subject-specific differences in response to the midsole material, emphasising the importance of considering individual variability in footwear design elements to optimise athletic performance.		[Ghanbari, Ashna; Vienneau, Jordyn; Nigg, Sandro R.; Nigg, Benno M.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ghanbari, Ashna] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001497375300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Jaen-Carrillo, Diego; Lawley, Justin S.; Rubio-Peiroten, Alberto; Carton-Llorente, Antonio								Correlation between patellar tendon morphology and running critical power across different running surfaces								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2624	2632		10.1177/17479541251345777			DEC 2025	2025	Trail running is an exponentially growing sport whose particular characteristics mean that athletes must adapt their running biomechanics, thus generating different physiological demands. A useful key to monitor the performance of this athletes is critical power (CP). This study aims to analyze the effects of two distinct running surfaces (i.e., athletic track and groomed trail) on CP, and the correlation between patellar tendon morphology and running performance metrics on these surfaces. 23 highly trained trail runners completed two maximum effort races (9 ' and 3 ') in two different surface sessions (track and trail) where CP and spatiotemporal parameters were recorded with the Stryd power meter. A patellar tendon ultrasound assessment was performed to assess the relation of the connective tissue morphology with running surfaces. Significant differences in CP and all the spatiotemporal variables between track and trail, except for mean CP during the 9-min test. Additionally, moderate to large correlations (0.39 <= r <= 0.56) were found between patellar tendon CSA and all the running variables for the 9- and 3-min running test and CP. Patellar tendon CSA positively correlates with performance in both track and trail conditions, but its impact is more pronounced in trail running where biomechanical adjustments are necessary therefore part of the training should be oriented in this direction.		[Jaen-Carrillo, Diego; Lawley, Justin S.] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Rubio-Peiroten, Alberto; Carton-Llorente, Antonio] Univ San Jorge, Zaragoza, Spain; [Rubio-Peiroten, Alberto] Univ San Jorge, Zaragoza, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001497323000001	39	Article; Article		
J	Clark, James R.; McKune, Andrew J.; Wood, Paola S.								Reliability and usefulness of a self-regulated 6-km submaximal ergometer training test set in elite rowers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2613	2623		10.1177/17479541251345575			DEC 2025	2025	Incorporating tests into regular training sessions permits sport-specific and convenient monitoring of athletes without disrupting team preparation or adding to testing burden. However, few studies have investigated the measurement properties of training test sets for monitoring athletes. This study assessed the reliability and usefulness of a self-regulated 6-km rowing ergometer training-based test (6SRT) as a submaximal monitoring tool in elite rowers. In a repeated measures design, 43 (13 female) rowers at a national training centre were asked to perform the 6SRT according to a 'firm-to-hard'/'threshold' session category goal at 22 strokes<middle dot>min(-1) in three consecutive weeks. Mean +/- standard deviation 6SRT time, power output (PO), exercise heart rate (HRex) and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) were 22:18.0 +/- 1:21.6 min:s, 70 +/- 4% 2-km time trial PO, 87 +/- 3% maximal HR and 16 +/- 1, respectively. There were no significant between-trial effects (p >= 0.101, eta(2)(p) <= 0.05) and differences between paired trials were trivial (Cohen's d < 0.2) for all variables. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC3,1: 0.62-0.98) were moderate to excellent for all responses except RPE (0.33). Coefficient of variation (CV: 0.6-3.5%) and typical error (TE: 0.7-4.1%) were low for all variables except HR recovery (HRR). Time, PO and HRex responses, and PO:HRex and PO:RPE intensity ratios showed TE <= smallest worthwhile change (SWC). The 6SRT shows acceptable reliability and usefulness under stable field conditions to be a valuable training test set for monitoring high-level rowers when maximal tests are undesirable or laboratory tests are inaccessible.		[Clark, James R.; Wood, Paola S.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Pretoria, South Africa; [McKune, Andrew J.] Univ Canberra, Univ Canberra Res Inst Sport & Exercise UCRISE, Canberra, Australia; [McKune, Andrew J.] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Biokinet Exercise & Leisure Sci, Durban, South Africa; [Clark, James R.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Pretoria, South Africa								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001497847500001	66	Article; Article		
J	Archer, Hannah B.; Kim, Sewan; Stewart, Harper E.; McNitt-Gray, Jill L.; Hahn, Michael E.; Kram, Rodger; Grabowski, Alena M.								Can biomechanical variables and asymmetry predict bone stress injuries in collegiate distance runners?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2680	2695		10.1080/14763141.2025.2506563			SEP 2 2025	2025	Runners are susceptible to bone stress injuries (BSI), due in part to cumulative loading, which is affected by force magnitude and frequency. We identified biomechanical variables that may predict BSI incidence by following 30 collegiate distance runners over three years. Athletes were classified as either uninjured (n = 8 male, 16 female) or injured (n = 3 male, 3 female) if they sustained a BSI. We measured ground reaction forces while athletes ran on a force-instrumented treadmill, and analysed step frequency (fstep), contact length (Lc), and bodyweight-normalised stance average vertical ground reaction force (Favg) alongside asymmetry (expressed as symmetry index, SI). A secondary analysis examined inter-limb biomechanical changes in six runners prior to sustaining a BSI. We found an interaction between injury status, sex, and speed on Favg values (p = 0.026). Forty-seven weeks prior to injury, Favg values were greater in the unaffected leg than the affected leg (p = 0.022). In addition, female injured runners exhibited 1.62 percentage points greater fstep SI than uninjured females at 4.9 m/s (p = 0.030). Future research that incorporates more frequent data collection is needed to integrate biomechanical variables and physiological risk factors for injury prediction and prevention among collegiate distance runners.		[Archer, Hannah B.; Kim, Sewan; Kram, Rodger; Grabowski, Alena M.] Univ Colorado, Dept Integrat Physiol, Boulder, CO 80309 USA; [Stewart, Harper E.; McNitt-Gray, Jill L.] Univ Southern Calif, Dept Biomed Engn, Los Angeles, CA USA; [McNitt-Gray, Jill L.] Univ Southern Calif, Dept Biol Sci, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Hahn, Michael E.] Univ Oregon, Bowerman Sports Sci Ctr, Eugene, OR USA; [Hahn, Michael E.] Univ Oregon, Dept Human Physiol, Eugene, OR USA; [Archer, Hannah B.] Univ Colorado, Dept Integrat Physiol, Boulder, CO 80309 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001495244100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Watanabe, Takahiro; Kuro, Eiichi; Furusawa, Hinata; Tsutsumi, Masahiro; Kudo, Shintarou								A novel method of assessing proprioception in the foot-ankle joint complex after lateral ankle sprain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				192	197		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.04.009			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: To investigate the validity of a novel method for assessing intra-foot proprioception impaired by chronic ankle instability (CAI) and its association with perceived ankle instability, and to include a conventional joint position reproduction (JPR). Design: Case-control study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: Eleven controls and 19 individuals with CAI. Main outcome measures: A circumduction reproduction test was developed to evaluate proprioception by measuring absolute errors between eyes-opened and closed conditions during ankle circumduction movement, consisting of inversion and eversion phases. Errors in hallux marker trajectory and intra-foot joint relative angles were analyzed. Additionally, the JPR was administered to comparison with the novel method. Results: During the eversion phase, the CAI group had significantly more errors in the X and Y component than the control group. The Pearson's r between the X component and IdFAI was 0.354 (p = 0.054). The X component correlated with the movement of the rearfoot, midfoot and forefoot, with correlations of r > 0.4. However, the JPR did not detect differences between two groups (p > 0.05). Conclusions: The circumduction reproduction test has discriminant validity for distinguishing between two groups and may provide an advantage over JPR.		[Watanabe, Takahiro; Kuro, Eiichi; Tsutsumi, Masahiro; Kudo, Shintarou] Morinomiya Univ Med Sci, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, 1-26-16 Nankokita,Suminoe Ku, Osaka, Osaka 5598611, Japan; [Watanabe, Takahiro; Tsutsumi, Masahiro; Kudo, Shintarou] Morinomiya Univ Med Sci, Inclus Med Sci Res Inst, 1-26-16 Nankokita,Suminoe Ku, Osaka, Osaka 5598611, Japan; [Watanabe, Takahiro] Morinomiya Univ Med Sci, Osaka Bay Clin, 1-26-16 Nankokita,Suminoe Ku, Osaka, Osaka 5598611, Japan; [Furusawa, Hinata; Tsutsumi, Masahiro; Kudo, Shintarou] Morinomiya Univ Med Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 1-26-16 Nankokita,Suminoe Ward, Osaka, Osaka 5598611, Japan; [Kudo, Shintarou] Morinomiya Univ Med Sci, Inclus Med Sci Res Inst, 1-26-16 Nankokita,Suminoe Ku, Osaka, Osaka 5598611, Japan								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001485621800001	20	Article; Article		
J	Mazzella, Natalie; Trowell, Danielle; Fox, Aaron; Saunders, Natalie; Vicenzino, Bill; Bonacci, Jason								Patellofemoral joint loads are lower when adolescents with patellofemoral pain run in flat, flexible shoes compared to traditional athletic shoes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				165	170		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.04.004			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: To examine peak and cumulative patellofemoral joint force when adolescents with patellofemoral pain run in a traditional athletic shoe, compared with a flat, flexible shoe. Design: Cross-sectional. Participants: Twenty-six adolescents with patellofemoral pain ran on an instrumented treadmill in a traditional athletic shoe and a flat, flexible shoe. Main outcome measures: Cumulative and peak patellofemoral joint forces, knee flexion angle, knee extension and ankle plantarflexion moments, cadence, stride length and pain were compared between footwear conditions using paired t-tests. Results: Peak patellofemoral joint reaction force was 11 % (p < 0.001) lower while running in the flat, flexible shoe (mean +/- SD 3.62 +/- 1.01 N/kg), compared to the athletic shoe (4.09 +/- 0.97 N/kg). Cumulative patellofemoral joint force was 15 % (p < 0.001) lower while running in the flat, flexible shoe (195.09 +/- 75.97 Bw.s/km), compared to the athletic shoe (231.54 +/- 87.95 Bw.s/km). Peak knee flexion angle (p < 0.001) and knee extension moment (p = 0.001) were also lower when running in the flat, flexible shoe. There was no difference in peak ankle plantarflexion moment, running cadence, stride length, or pain between conditions. Conclusions: Flat, flexible shoes may be a suitable intervention to lower cumulative patellofemoral joint loads during running in adolescents with patellofemoral pain.		[Mazzella, Natalie; Fox, Aaron; Bonacci, Jason] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, 75 Pigdons Rd, Waurn Ponds, Vic 3215, Australia; [Trowell, Danielle; Saunders, Natalie] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia; [Vicenzino, Bill] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, St Lucia, Qld 4072, Australia; [Bonacci, Jason] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, 75 Pigdons Rd, Waurn Ponds, Vic 3215, Australia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001479906800001	56	Article; Article		
J	Slopecki, Matthew; Charbonneau, Mathieu; Deguire, Simon; Cote, Julie N.; Clement, Julien								Technical performance analyses in elite Paralympic swimming using wearable technology: two case studies								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	3			440	453		10.1080/14763141.2025.2508239			MAR 4 2026	2026	We present two case studies that make use of wearable technology to provide performance indicators on optimal swim stroke techniques in breaststroke (case 1) and freestyle (case 2). In the first case study, we present and use a novel metric, the velocity variation score, to maximise breaststroke technical performance for an athlete with Achondroplasia Dwarfism, by comparing their normal technique to two alternates, focused on 1) fast arm sculling and 2) high stroke rate (HSR). We observed lower velocity variation scores using the adapted breaststroke techniques (p < 0.001), the HSR technique had the lowest velocity variation score (p < 0.001). In the second case, we determine the optimal breathing strategy, breathing to the impaired or unimpaired side, for an athlete with a unilateral hand impairment performing freestyle swimming. Results showed that the forward velocity was significantly lower in the left-to-right stroke cycle transition and right (arm pull) when breathing to the impaired (left) side. To varying degrees, these cases demonstrate that wearable-based intra-stroke analyses can provide individualised technique recommendations that benefit competitive race peformance.		[Slopecki, Matthew; Cote, Julie N.; Clement, Julien] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Slopecki, Matthew; Charbonneau, Mathieu; Deguire, Simon; Clement, Julien] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Deguire, Simon] Swimming Natat, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Clement, Julien] Ecole Technol Super, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Slopecki, Matthew] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Slopecki, Matthew] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, Montreal, PQ, Canada								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001494741600001	20	Article; Article		
J	Jimenez-Martinez, Jesus; Alarcon-Lopez, Francisco; Madinabeitia-Cabrera, Iker; Gutierrez-Capote, Alejandro; Cardenas-Velez, David								Athletes with a history of non-contact ACL injury exhibit poorer inhibitory control and visual attention performance than healthy athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2633	2641		10.1177/17479541251345298			DEC 2025	2025	Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries significantly impact athletes' performance, and a neurocognitive approach, particularly executive functions, may play a relevant role in ACL injury. The aim was to evaluate and compare performance on inhibitory control and visual attention using the Flanker Task and Multiple Object Tracking (MOT) cognitive tests between athletes with and without a history of non-contact ACL injury. 60 athletes of interaction sports (30 athletes with no history of ACL injury and 30 athletes with a history of non-contact ACL injury) participated in this study. During the experimental session participants performed Flanker Task and Multiple Object Tracking to evaluate inhibitory control and visual attention, respectively. Athletes with a history of non-contact ACL injury had longer reaction times than healthy athletes on the Flanker Task cognitive test (p < 0.001). For the MOT, athletes with a history of non-contact ACL injury had worse two-ball follow-through at speeds of 19.9 deg/s (p = 0.034) and 28.8 deg/s (p < 0.001) and three-ball follow-through at speeds of 19.9 deg/s (p = 0.009) and 28.8 deg/s (p < 0.001). Athletes with a history of non-contact ACL injury exhibit poorer cognitive performance than athletes without a history of ACL injury in inhibitory control, particularly interference control and visual attention. Therefore, rehabilitators and exercise professionals should consider the assessment and training of executive functions into the rehabilitation process for ACL injuries.		[Jimenez-Martinez, Jesus; Gutierrez-Capote, Alejandro; Cardenas-Velez, David] Univ Granada, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Jimenez-Martinez, Jesus; Gutierrez-Capote, Alejandro; Cardenas-Velez, David] Sport & Hlth Univ Res Inst iMUDS, Granada, Spain; [Alarcon-Lopez, Francisco; Madinabeitia-Cabrera, Iker] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Dept Gen & Specif Didact, Alicante, Spain; [Gutierrez-Capote, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Carretera Alfacar S-N, Granada 18071, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001494163900001	44	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, Maureen E.; Furley, Philip; Ishizawa, Anna								The Impact of Laterality and Prosthesis on Performance Among Para Surfers: A Cross-Sectional Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			792	801		10.1080/02701367.2025.2503360			OCT 2 2025	2025	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to investigate performance differences in competitive adaptive/para surfers with upper and/or lower limb amputations, congenital limb impairments, or dysmelia who surf in the standing position. Methods: This cross-sectional study explored the impact of wave direction; laterality, or surf stance, such as goofy (right foot forward) versus regular (left foot forward); and use of prosthesis on performance using judged wave scores among competitive surfers from 2019 to 2022. Archived records of classified surfers with eligible impairment of limb deficiency were reviewed. Data was divided into surfing profile and surfing performance. Results: Participants (n = 86; male = 64; female = 22) from 22 nations met inclusion criteria. No significant difference was found in wave direction, laterality, or prosthesis use; however, more frontside waves were ridden. Significant differences were found between male (single-wave score 4.62/10; total wave score 9.25/20) versus female surfers (single-wave score 3.44/10; total-wave score 6.82/20) for average single wave score (t(49,490) = 2.989, p = .004, two-tailed; d = .647) or average total wave score (t(48.768) = 2.585, p = .003, two-tailed; d = 0.670). Conclusion: Although limited to sample size, adaptive/para surfing performance may be more influenced by training and skill acquisition than laterality or use of prosthesis.		[Johnson, Maureen E.; Ishizawa, Anna] Univ St Augustine Hlth Sci, San Marcos, CA USA; [Furley, Philip] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Johnson, Maureen E.] Univ St Augustine Hlth Sci, Dept Occupat Therapy, 700 Windy Point Dr, San Marcos, CA 92069 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001491437700001	45	Article; Article		
J	Randfield, Ewan; Phillips, Shaun M.								The Acute Effect of Moderate-Intensity Steady-State Exercise and High-Intensity Interval Exercise in a Mentally Fatigued State on Subjective Ratings of Mental Fatigue								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			761	769		10.1080/02701367.2025.2496269			OCT 2 2025	2025	We investigated the effect of 10 min moderate-intensity steady-state exercise (SS) vs. high-intensity interval exercise (HIIE) in a mentally fatigued state on ratings of mental fatigue (MF). Twelve physically active males (age 20.5 +/- 0.5 years) completed a 30 min computerized Incongruent Stroop-Word-and-Colour-Test (C-ISWCT) followed by one of the following in a randomized order: A) 5 min light-intensity warm-up, then continuous cycling at 60% maximum heart rate (SS), B) 5 min light-intensity warm-up, then 3 x 20s sprints interspersed with 3 min unloaded cycling (HIIE), C) 15 min rest (CON). Mental fatigue visual analogue scale (VAS) ratings increased statistically significantly pre- to post-MF protocol in all trials (F-1,F-11 = 114.11, p < .001). Post-warm-up MF ratings were not statistically significantly different between trials but showed a moderately greater reduction in SS vs. CON (d(unb) = -0.66) and a large reduction in HIIE vs. CON (d(unb) = -0.84). Post-exercise MF ratings were statistically significantly lower in SS and HIIE vs. CON (p = .005, d(unb) = -1.52 and p = .006, d(unb) = -1.43, respectively). Ten minutes SS exercise and HIIE are similarly effective at attenuating perceptions of MF compared with CON. Short bouts of exercise may combat perceived MF.		[Randfield, Ewan; Phillips, Shaun M.] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport PE & Hlth Sci, St Leonards Land,Holyrood Rd, Edinburgh EH88AQ, Scotland; [Phillips, Shaun M.] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport PE & Hlth Sci, St Leonards Land,Holyrood Rd, Edinburgh EH88AQ, Scotland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001491635900001	57	Article; Article		
J	Miqueleiz, Unai; Aguado-Jimenez, Roberto; Lecumberri, Pablo; Gorostiaga, Esteban M.								Agreement between an inertial measurement unit (IMU) algorithm and a photoelectric system for analysing spatiotemporal variables during overground and treadmill running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	3			410	428		10.1080/14763141.2025.2502750			MAR 4 2026	2026	The aim of this study was to assess the agreement between running stride variables measured simultaneously with an inertial sensor (MTw IMU) using a specific algorithm, and a floor-based photoelectric (Optojump; OJ) system among well-trained endurance runners, during overground and treadmill runs at speeds ranging from 9 to 21 km center dot h-1. Five different filter settings (from 0_0 to 4_4) were used with the OJ to detect the contact event, based on the number of LEDs (from 1 to 5). No significant differences (p > 0.05) were found between the two devices in any of the stride variables when the 4_4 filter was implemented using the OJ. The agreement was good for contact time (CT) and flight time (FT) [r = 0.81-0.93; Typical error of the estimate (TEE%) = 3.2-7.5%], whereas for stride frequency (SF), stride length (SL) and stride time (ST) the agreement was almost perfect (r = 0.91-0.99; TEE% = 0.2-1.7%). The agreement worsened as the number of activated LEDs used to detect the contact event decreased. This suggests that the tested inertial sensor using a specific algorithm can achieve highly precise measurement of spatiotemporal parameters during both overground and treadmill running, compared to the OJ (4_4) system.		[Miqueleiz, Unai; Gorostiaga, Esteban M.] Govt Navarre, Studies Res & Sports Med Ctr CEIMD, Pamplona, Spain; [Aguado-Jimenez, Roberto] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Hlth Sci, Pamplona, Spain; [Lecumberri, Pablo] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Math, Pamplona, Spain; [Aguado-Jimenez, Roberto] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Hlth Sci, Pamplona, Spain								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001492717700001	33	Article; Article		
J	Imal, O.; Verbruggen, F. Fallon; Maly, T.; Stephenson, C.; Zahalka, F.; Petway, A.								A comparative analysis of game load and game results in elite collegiate basketball players over a regular season								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2482	2488		10.1177/17479541251343787			DEC 2025	2025	This study examines external game load parameters and game results in elite collegiate basketball players, with a focus on game-intensity and positional differences. Fourteen male collegiate basketball players (average age: 22.5 +/- 1.8 years) were tracked using wearable GPS indoor system devices (Catapult Sports, Catapult T7, Melbourne, Australia) across a 30-game college basketball regular season. Games were categorized by point differentials: Wins by >= 10 points, Wins by <10 points, Losses by <10 points, and Losses by >= 10 points. Descriptive statistics, Pearson correlations, and stepwise regression analyses were used to explore relationships between external load parameters and game results, with additional analysis by player position (Guard, Forward, Center). Significant correlations were found between High-Intensity Player Load/Min (HIPL/Min) (r = 0.278, p < 0.001) and Points Scored/Min (PS/Min) (r = 0.270, p < 0.001) with score difference, indicating their importance in influencing game results. HIPL/Min alone explained 7.2% of the variance in score difference. These findings suggest that optimizing HIPL could maximize tactical efficiency and PS, which could improve game performance and inform training and match-play strategies in basketball. Future research should investigate additional variables such as internal load and mechanical factors to provide a fuller picture of performance dynamics.		[Imal, O.; Verbruggen, F. Fallon; Maly, T.; Zahalka, F.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Stephenson, C.] Univ Cent, Dept Athlet, Orlando, FL USA; [Petway, A.] Mississippi State Univ, Ctr Adv Vehicular Syst, Human Factors & Athlete Engn, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA; [Petway, A.] Univ Louisville, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Louisville, KY USA; [Petway, A.] Mississippi State Univ, Ctr Adv Vehicular Syst, Human Factors & Athlete Engn, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001492236300001	26	Article; Article		
J	Drikos, Sotirios; Kouvalias, Spyridon; Salomidou, Chrysa; Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos; Barzouka, Karolina								Decoding attack performance: The role of spatiotemporal characteristics in volleyball Complex 1								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2498	2511		10.1177/17479541251345299			DEC 2025	2025	Successful execution of Complex 1, a sequence of fundamental volleyball game actions, is widely recognised as a prerequisite for victory. This study investigated the impact of spatiotemporal characteristics of volleyball game actions (reception, setting) within Complex 1 on subsequent attack performance in high-level men's volleyball in 36 high-level men's volleyball matches from the 2021 Olympic Games (n = 20) and European Championship (n = 16), encompassing 4425 attacks. The reception zone and trajectory, middle attacker (MA) threat (presence and position), setting zone and tempo, and attack zone concerning attack outcome (win, loss, continuation) were analysed. Chi-square tests revealed significant associations (p < 0.001) between attack performance and setting zone (V = 0.156), setting tempo (V = 0.130), attack zone (V = 0.095), and the presence of an MA threat (V = 0.180). Conversely, reception zone, reception trajectory and MA threat position (p > 0.05) showed no significant impact. Log-linear modelling highlighted substantial two-way interactions between the attack zone, setting tempo, and setting zone with attack performance (p < .023 - p < 0.001). Concerning, multiple correspondence analysis, the first two dimensions, accounting for 87.92% of the total variance, illustrate the primary relationships within the data, confirming that successful attacks were linked to specific setting zones (A2, A3, B2, B3), faster tempos, attacks from zones 3 and 6, and the presence of an MA threat. These findings underscore the interconnectedness of game actions within Complex 1. At the highest level of competition, not only must individual game actions be executed precisely, but the coordination of multiple players' actions is crucial to optimise attack performance.		[Drikos, Sotirios; Kouvalias, Spyridon; Salomidou, Chrysa; Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos; Barzouka, Karolina] Natl Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Ethnikis Antistasis 41, Athens 17237, Greece; [Drikos, Sotirios] Natl Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Ethnikis Antistasis 41, Athens 17237, Greece								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001492240600001	56	Article; Article		
J	Hughes, William; Beattie, Kris; Lyons, Mark; Higginbotham, Clement; Lane, Aoife; Healy, Robin								Strength and speed training practices of female Gaelic football coaches in Ireland								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1420	1432		10.1177/17479541251333946			AUG 2025	2025	This study investigated coaching practices in female Gaelic football in Ireland, with specific emphasis on coaches' perception of the role of strength and speed training on performance. A questionnaire comprising of five sections (i.e., coaching demographic, strength and speed training, programming, strength and speed testing, and menstrual cycle) was developed and subsequently circulated to female Gaelic football clubs (i.e., senior, intermediate, junior level, and age specific categories) and all 32 county boards in Ireland. Sixty-six coaches completed the survey (43 +/- 10 years). Seventy-nine percent of coaches reported including strength and speed training as part of their programming. Additionally, 79% and 90% of coaches indicated that they strongly agree that strength and speed training can positively influence match-play performance, respectively. In the context of programming for strength qualities, practitioners primarily orientated towards the development of strength endurance. Free sprinting was the most popular 'specific' method of speed development. Additionally, strength training was a popular 'general' method of enhancing speed, with 95% of coaches reporting that they believe strength training has a positive effect on overall sprint performance. Strength and speed testing was implemented by approximately half of the surveyed coaches. Fifty-nine percent of coaches surveyed reported that they do not take the menstrual cycle into consideration when programming for their players. Overall, this study highlights some theory-practice gaps, particularly in relation to the programming of strength qualities and knowledge surrounding the impact of the menstrual cycle in performance. Consequently, coaches should interpret this practice-based information with caution when prescribing strength and speed training with their athletes.		[Hughes, William; Beattie, Kris; Lane, Aoife; Healy, Robin] Technol Univ Shannon Midlands Midwest, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Athlone, Ireland; [Hughes, William; Beattie, Kris; Higginbotham, Clement; Lane, Aoife; Healy, Robin] Technol Univ Shannon Midlands Midwest, SHE Res Ctr, Athlone, Ireland; [Lyons, Mark] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Higginbotham, Clement] Technol Univ Shannon Midlands Midwest, Dept Mech Polymer & Design, Athlone, Ireland; [Hughes, William] Technol Univ Shannon Midlands Midwest, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Athlone, Ireland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001492022100001	47	Article; Article		
J	Mcquilliam, Stephen J.; de Keijzer, Kevin L.; Jeffries, Annie C.; Beato, Marco								Fitness testing and readiness practices among female football practitioners: A survey study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2031	2043		10.1177/17479541251340283			OCT 2025	2025	Physical tests and subjective measures, such as readiness and wellness, aid in optimising training and recovery, however, many tools lack proper validation, risking inaccurate conclusions. This study explores physical testing and readiness practices in female football. A cross-sectional web-based survey was conducted among practitioners working with female footballers. The survey, consisting of five sections and 24 questions, examined three key areas: testing, wellness, and readiness. A total of 51 practitioners from professional, semi-professional, and academy levels completed the survey, detailing their use of testing and monitoring data. Strength, speed, and aerobic capacity were rated as "extremely important" for soccer performance. Strength and aerobic capacity were tested 2-3 times per season (41% and 59%, respectively), while speed was tested weekly (76%), often integrated with regular monitoring. Qualitative tools were used daily to assess wellness and readiness, with validated questionnaires (55% and 39%), self-developed questionnaires (43% and 37%), and informal conversations (37% and 41%) being the most common methods. Research on physical qualities in readiness is extensive, yet subjective measures are more widely used in practice, with significant variability in their application. Practitioners prioritize a player's "feel" over their readiness to "perform."		[Mcquilliam, Stephen J.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [de Keijzer, Kevin L.; Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Ipswich, England; [Jeffries, Annie C.] UNSW Sydney, Sch Hlth Sci, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Jeffries, Annie C.] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, Australia; [Mcquilliam, Stephen J.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001492020500001	36	Article; Article		
J	Manci, Egemen; Ozdalyan, Firat; Gebel, Arnd; Guducu, Cagdas; Gunay, Erkan; Jenny, Seth E.; Mueller, Notger G.; Herold, Fabian								Listen to the coaches: Practitioners' perspective on the relevance of selected cognitive skills and assessments for esports performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1850	1862		10.1177/17479541251342721			OCT 2025	2025	The study aims to identify the most appropriate cognitive skills and tests to assess cognitive performance in esports players. There is a lack of consensus on which skills are necessary for success in esports and which assessments are appropriate to assess these skills. This study included 51 esports coaches aged 31.82 +/- 6.38 years and an average of 14.59 +/- 7.10 years of esports experience. Participants were introduced to cognitive skills, domains, and assessments during a course on cognition. They thereafter got the chance to familiarize themselves with each cognitive assessment by performing them. Afterward, participants were surveyed on their perceptions of relevant cognitive skills for in-game esports performance and the most suitable cognitive test for assessing these skills in esports player performance. The sampled esports coaches identified attention, reaction time, and timing as the most relevant presented cognitive skills for in-game esports performance and rated the Change Detection Test, the Timewall Test, and the Flanker Test as the most relevant presented cognitive tests to assess cognitive skills in esports players. From the perspective of expert esports coaches, the tests that are most relevant to esports performance and most appropriate for assessing cognitive performance in esports athletes are determined. The conclusions highlight the importance of cognition in esports and guide future research on the factors influencing in-game performance. Nevertheless, additional research is necessary to determine their predictive significance for talent identification and player selection.		[Manci, Egemen] Izmir Demokrasi Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Izmir, Turkiye; [Manci, Egemen; Gebel, Arnd; Mueller, Notger G.; Herold, Fabian] Univ Potsdam, Fac Hlth Sci, Res Grp Degenerat & Chron Dis, Movement, Potsdam, Germany; [Ozdalyan, Firat] Dokuz Eylul Univ, Necat Hepkon Fac Sport Sci, Izmir, Turkiye; [Guducu, Cagdas] Izmir Dokuz Eylul Univ, Fac Med, Dept Biophys, Izmir, Turkiye; [Gunay, Erkan] Manisa Celal Bayar Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Manisa, Turkiye; [Jenny, Seth E.] Slippery Rock Univ Penn, Dept Exercise Sci, Slippery Rock, PA USA; [Herold, Fabian] HMU Hlth & Med Univ Erfurt, Fac Med, Dept Physiol, Erfurt, Germany; [Manci, Egemen] Univ Potsdam, Fac Hlth Sci Brandenburg, Res Grp Degenerat & Chron Dis, Movement, Muhlenberg 9, D-14476 Potsdam, Germany								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001492020300001	105	Article; Article		
J	Bill, Kevin; Krosshaug, Tron; Kersting, Uwe G.								Foot strike angle as key predictor of multi-plane knee joint moments in sidestep cutting: implications for ACL injury prevention								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	3			429	439		10.1080/14763141.2025.2506552			MAR 4 2026	2026	Video analyses of ACL injury situations in change-of-direction tasks suggest an elevated injury risk during flatfooted or rearfoot landing. While loading in each individual plane of the knee can contribute to injury, combined loading seems to be the most likely mechanism. This study investigated if knee joint moments are related to the foot strike angle in pre-planned and unplanned handball-specific sidestep cuts performed by n = 51 female handball players. Canonical correlation analysis (CCA) with the foot strike angle at initial ground contact serving as the predictor variable was performed on the knee joint moment vector field (Mxyz). In both conditions, the foot strike angle was related to Mxyz. Subsequently, post-hoc tests were conducted using CCA for moment couples (Mxy, Mxz, Myz) and linear regression for individual moment components. Results revealed that traditional analyses focusing on individual planes only partially explain the observed relationships, particularly during the unplanned cutting condition. Given the time periods in which correlations exist, this study shows that manipulating the foot strike angle has the potential to reduce multi-plane knee loading associated with ACL injury, while limiting analyses to individual planes might underestimate the potential to mitigate ACL injury risk.		[Bill, Kevin; Kersting, Uwe G.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany; [Krosshaug, Tron] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Sports Med, Oslo, Norway; [Bill, Kevin] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001490761900001	36	Article; Article		
J	Rupani, D.; Poff, C. B.; Athiviraham, A.								The pitch timer is not associated with increased upper extremity injuries in Major League Baseball pitchers, a 4-year analysis								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	6			430	434		10.1080/00913847.2025.2505399			NOV 2 2025	2025	Objectives: The objectives of this study were to (1) assess whether the Pitch Timer was associated with the incidence of upper extremity injury (UEI) in Major League Baseball (MLB) Pitchers and (2) assess the association between UEI and Pitcher 'Tempo' between 2021 and 2024 in the MLB. Methods: This study was a retrospective review of all MLB Pitchers who pitched in at least three out of four seasons between 2021 and 2024. Players were assessed for time spent on the injury list (IL) due to shoulder and/or forearm/elbow-associated pathology. With the Pitch Timer starting in the 2023 season, the incidence of UEI was calculated in pre- and post-Timer cohorts. Games missed per injury were also assessed pre- and post-Timer. Average Pitching Tempo was assessed in pitchers with shoulder injuries, forearm/elbow injuries, and uninjured pitchers. Continuous variables were compared using two-tailed t-tests, and categorical variables were compared using the chi-squared test with a statistical significance set at p < 0.05. Results: There were no significant differences in the incidence of shoulder injuries (p = 0.94) or forearm/elbow injuries (p = 0.24) in MLB pitchers between any year from 2021 to 2024. Pitchers who sustained shoulder injuries in 2023-2024 missed significantly more games per injury than pitchers who sustained shoulder injuries in 2021-2022 (p = 0.007). The same trend did not exist in the elbow (p = 0.57). Average Pitch Tempo was similar between pitchers with shoulder and forearm/elbow injuries versus uninjured pitchers (16.72-17.09 s, p = 0.14-0.20). Conclusions: The incidence of UEI did not increase in MLB Pitchers following the implementation of the Pitch Timer prior to the 2023 MLB season. Following the introduction of the Pitch Timer in 2023, MLB Pitchers averaged significantly greater games missed per shoulder injury than previous seasons, suggesting there may be a link between the Pitch Timer and shoulder injury severity. Pitching Tempo was not associated with UEI.		[Rupani, D.] Univ Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Poff, C. B.; Athiviraham, A.] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthoped Surg & Rehabil Med, 5758 S Maryland Ave, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Poff, C. B.] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthoped Surg & Rehabil Med, 5758 S Maryland Ave, Chicago, IL 60637 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001489106700001	12	Article; Article		
J	Soylu, Yusuf; Chmura, Pawel; Arslan, Ersan; Kilit, Bulent								Intra- and inter-format variability of psychophysiological and technical responses in different small-sided soccer game formats: A repeated measures study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1987	1996		10.1177/17479541251341391			OCT 2025	2025	This study investigated the variability in psychophysiological and technical responses of soccer players in two small-sided soccer games (2 and 4-a-side); (i) both within-format variability (responses across different days and times for the same format) and (ii) between-format variability (responses compared between the two formats). Twenty-four male soccer players (Age = 16.96 +/- 0.86) participated voluntarily in a repeated study design in which small-sided game formats, namely 2 and 4-a-side, were played in the morning and afternoon on two consecutive days. Data were obtained for every bout performed in both formats, including heart rate (HR), rating of perceived exertion (RPE), physical activity enjoyment scale (PACES), and technical actions, including successful passes, unsuccessful passes, losing possession of the ball, and interception of the ball. The coefficient of variation was used to quantify the variability. A paired t-test was executed to determine the within- and between-format variations. The within-format HR outcomes exhibited minimal variation (0.012 to 0.018%CV), whereas the results on technical actions, such as passes, demonstrated a more significant fluctuation (0.083 to 0.150%CV). Repeated measures analysis showed marked variations (p < 0.05) in HR, RPE, PACES, and technical actions across the different bout measurements. In summary, both formats show increased observed variability in technical events but consistent psychophysiological data within the format.		[Soylu, Yusuf; Arslan, Ersan; Kilit, Bulent] Tokat Gaziosmanpasa Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Tokat, Turkiye; [Chmura, Pawel] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Individual & Team Sports, Al IJ Paderewskiego 35, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland; [Chmura, Pawel] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Individual & Team Sports, Al IJ Paderewskiego 35, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001489611500001	32	Article; Article		
J	Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre; Pinto, Guilherme Moreira Caetano; Santana, Hugo Alexandre de Paula; Aquino, Rodrigo								Physical match demand in the FIFA World Cup: An analysis of the 2018 (Russia) and 2022 (Qatar) editions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2051	2059		10.1177/17479541251339802			OCT 2025	2025	The 2022 Qatar World Cup was conducted under unique circumstances, setting it apart from previous editions due to schedule and rule modifications. This study aimed to evaluate the physical demand of teams in terms of running disparities between the 2018 and 2022 World Cups. Match performance data were obtained from the official websites of the 2018 Russia World Cup (n = 988 observations) and the 2022 Qatar World Cup (n = 826 observations). Match outcomes included losses (n = 729 player observations), draws (n = 339 player observations), or wins (n = 746 player observations). Players in all positions covered a greater distance during the 2022 World Cup compared to the 2018 edition. When examining the interaction between Cup and Outcome, only total distance covered (F = 5.831, p = 0.003) and distance covered walking (F = 15.488, p < 0.001) showed statistical differences. These findings elucidate that more total distance was covered during draws, with higher values observed in the 2022 World Cup. Thus, the study concludes that the 2022 Qatar FIFA World Cup presented a higher physical match demand compared to the 2018 Russia FIFA World Cup.		[Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre] Univ Estadual Ponta Grossa UEPG, Programa Posgrad Ciencias Biomed, Ponta Grossa, PR, Brazil; [Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre; Santana, Hugo Alexandre de Paula] Univ Fed Mato Grosso do Sul UFMS, Programa Posgrad Ciencias Movimento, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil; [Pinto, Guilherme Moreira Caetano] Univ Estadual Ponta Grossa UEPG, Dept Educ Fis, Ponta Grossa, PR, Brazil; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo UFES, Ctr Educ Fis & Esportes, LabSport, Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre] Univ Estadual Ponta Grossa, Av Gen Carlos Cavalcanti 4748, BR-84030900 Ponta Grossa, PR, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001489609100001	44	Article; Article		
J	Burland, Julie P.; Nguyen, Ryan; Sarnelli, Michael; Sampson, Matthew; Carlson, Jacob; Sheldon, Lauren; Edgar, Cory M.; Devaney, Laurie L.; DiStefano, Lindsay J.; Glaviano, Neal R.								Evaluating the relationship between the landing error scoring system and single leg squat in ROTC cadets								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				25	31		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.05.005			JUL 2025	2025	Objectives: To evaluate the correlation between the Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) and single leg squat (SLS) in assessing neuromuscular control deficits in Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) Cadets. Design: Cross-sectional observational study. Setting: University gymnasium. Participants: Fifty-six ROTC members (Age, 20.16 f 1.7 years; sex, 20 females, 36 males; height, 68.78 f 3.32 inches; mass, 73.65 f 12.98 kg; dominant limb length; 89.83 f 5.1 cm) completed 3 jump-landings and 5 SLS trials. Main outcome measures: The jump-landing and SLS were recorded using PhysiMax markerless motion capture, and errors in the frontal and sagittal planes were automatically graded on a dichotomous scale. Results: Average LESS scores were 5.36 f 2.93 errors, while SLS errors were 3.93 f 1.03 (left) and 4.30 f 1.73 errors (right). No significant associations were found between LESS and SLS errors, including medial knee displacement errors in frontal plane or any sagittal plane errors. Conclusions: The LESS and SLS likely capture different aspects of neuromuscular control due to task differences. Clinicians should utilize both screening methods to identify high-risk movements.		[Burland, Julie P.; Nguyen, Ryan; Sarnelli, Michael; Sampson, Matthew; Carlson, Jacob; Sheldon, Lauren; Devaney, Laurie L.; DiStefano, Lindsay J.; Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, 2095 Hillside Rd,U-1110 Storrs, Mansfield, CT 06269 USA; [Burland, Julie P.; Sheldon, Lauren; Edgar, Cory M.; Devaney, Laurie L.; DiStefano, Lindsay J.; Glaviano, Neal R.] UConn Inst Sports Med, Farmington, CT USA; [Edgar, Cory M.] UConn Hlth Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Farmington, CT USA; [Burland, Julie P.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, 2095 Hillside Rd,U-1110 Storrs, Mansfield, CT 06269 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001495146300001	33	Article; Article		
J	Goncalves, Luiz Guilherme; Silva, Rui Miguel; Moraes-Neto, Maxwell Viana; Pasquarelli, Bruno; Pastor, Alejandro; Plato, Felipe de Okato; Leitao, Rodrigo Aparecido Azevedo; Augusto, Diego; Vasconcellos, Fabricio; Aquino, Rodrigo								Interpreting weekly external load in professional soccer: A position-based and context-driven approach for the "real world" setting								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2427	2437		10.1177/17479541251342802			DEC 2025	2025	This study analyzed the weekly external load of professional soccer players with two main aims: 1) to describe the external load (i.e. distance and accelerometry-based measures) according to match-contextual difficulty-defined as a scoring system combining match location and the quality of opposition- and playing positions; 2) to compare the external load in contexts of low and high match-contextual difficulty. Eighteen professional soccer players were monitored over 13 weeks using global positioning systems (GPS) units and accelerometers. Players participating for at least 60 min in non-congested weeks were analyzed for total distance, distances covered at various speeds and acceleration levels, and Player Load. Match difficulties were categorized as "high" (score > 10) or "low" (score <= 10) and determined using match location and quality of opposition. The results revealed that the highest external loads occurred mid-week (e.g. MD-3), decreasing towards the week's end (e.g. MD-1), with external defenders and midfielders facing higher demands than central defenders and forwards. In low-difficulty scenarios (p < 0.001-0.030), external loads were higher than in high-difficulty scenarios, particularly on days preceding a match (MD-4 and MD-2). Conversely, high-difficulty matches context increased high-speed/sprinting distance and mechanical work on specific days (MD-3 and MD-1) (p < 0.001-0.020). The findings suggest that external load can be increased early in low-difficulty match weeks, while reduced demands are recommended before high-difficulty matches weeks. Coaches should adopt context-approach periodization to appropriately plan physical stimulus throughout the weekly competition.		[Goncalves, Luiz Guilherme; Moraes-Neto, Maxwell Viana; Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Ctr Phys Educ & Sport CEFD, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, LabSport, Vitoria, Brazil; [Silva, Rui Miguel] Res Ctr Sports Performance Recreat Innovat & Techn, Melgaco, Portugal; [Silva, Rui Miguel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Viana do Castelo, Portugal; [Pasquarelli, Bruno; Pastor, Alejandro; Plato, Felipe de Okato] Catapult Grp Int Ltd, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Leitao, Rodrigo Aparecido Azevedo] CBF Acad, Brazilian Soccer Confederat Acad, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; [Augusto, Diego; Vasconcellos, Fabricio] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Postgrad Program Exercise & Sport Sci, Lab Soccer Studies LABESFUT, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Federal Univ Espirito Santo, Ctr Phys Educ & Sport CEFD, Av Fernando Ferrari,514 Goiabeiras, BR-29075910 Vitoria, ES, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001488847100001	50	Article; Article		
J	Fridrich, Dominik; Federolf, Peter; Werner, Inge								Short-term effects of foam rolling versus stretching on range of motion and the squat movement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	6			2642	2651		10.1177/17479541251342715			DEC 2025	2025	Stretching techniques like proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) or tissue work, like foam rolling (FR), are assumed to increase the range of motion (ROM), but little is known about consecutive adaptations in complex movement techniques. The study aimed to quantify short-term adaptations in the squat movement due to the potentially raised ROM after FR or PNF stretching. Forty young adults (20 females) participated in the study. The intervention group applied PNF stretching or FR in a cross-over design between the first and the second set of five squats, whereas the control group rested. After each set of squats, a questionnaire measured easiness, smoothness, and enjoyment using visual analog scales. Ankle ROM and hamstring flexibility were tested using the Weight-Bearing Lunge Test (WBLT) and the Stand and Reach Test (SaR). The squat movement was assessed through joint angles, specifically including the pelvis motion, utilizing a motion capture system (250 Hz). Results of rANOVAs show a significantly higher ROM increase in the intervention group than in the controls (p = 0.006 for FR and p < 0.003 for PNF in WBLT and SaR, respectively). Angle pathways did not change. After the second set, all groups recorded enhanced perceptions of ease, smoothness, and enjoyment. Interestingly, the larger ROM did not change the squatting motion. In conclusion, both interventions increased ROM in direct ROM tests. However, ankle dorsiflexion and pelvic tilt in squatting, hypothesized to be constrained by ROM, did not change.		[Fridrich, Dominik; Federolf, Peter; Werner, Inge] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Furstenweg 186, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria; [Werner, Inge] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Furstenweg 186, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001488851500001	49	Article; Article		
J	Penggalih, Mirza Hapsari Sakti Titis; Trisnantoro, Laksono; Prabandari, Yayi Suryo; Rahadian, Bayu; Ariyanto, Muhammad Aziz; Niamilah, Ibtidau; Solichah, Kurnia Mar'atus; Sahdani, Firda; Rizana, Nisa Ayu; Danumaya, Almira; Muslichah, Rahadyana; Dewinta, Mustika Cahya Nirmala; Reswati, Vigur Dinda Yulia; Bactiar, Nia								Exploring sport science implementation in Indonesian youth athlete training centers: A consolidated framework of implementation research-based thematic analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1876	1888		10.1177/17479541251341421			OCT 2025	2025	The Indonesian government has introduced the National Sports Grand Design (DBON) to enhance national sports coaching and development. DBON implementation in Indonesia, particularly through the National Potential Young Athlete Training Centers (SLOMPN), focuses on developing elite athletes in Olympic priority sports. This study examines the DBON policy implementation from the perspective of program implementation and sports scientists engaged in athlete development at SLOMPN Indonesia. This qualitative research utilized the Consolidated Framework of Implementation Research (CFIR), focusing on the implementation and individual domains, through a deductive approach for data collection and interpretation. This study involved 11 participants, including three biomechanists, four physiotherapists, and four psychologists. These specialists executed training programs aligned with their expertise. The analysis revealed key aspects of program implementation and individual aspects, with an emphasis on planning, implementation, barriers, facilitators, and monitoring. While the sports science mentoring program at SLOMPN was largely successful, several areas required improvement. Limited resources, inadequate infrastructure, and staffing shortages have hindered its effectiveness. Reliance on international referral models has complicated implementation. This study highlights the need to formalize technical mentoring, establish clear employment guidelines, and develop standardized assessment tools. Our findings emphasize the necessity of enhanced resources, infrastructure, and technical support to optimize the impact of implemented sports science initiatives at SLOMPN. Overall, this reflective study provides critical insights and practical recommendations for policymakers, stakeholders, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and associated institutions to enhance the quality, consistency, and long-term effectiveness of athlete programs in Indonesia.		[Penggalih, Mirza Hapsari Sakti Titis; Rizana, Nisa Ayu; Danumaya, Almira; Muslichah, Rahadyana] Univ Gadjah Mada, Fac Med Publ Hlth & Nursing, Hlth Nutr Dept, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; [Trisnantoro, Laksono] Univ Gadjah Mada, Fac Med Publ Hlth & Nursing, Dept Hlth Policy & Management, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; [Prabandari, Yayi Suryo] Univ Gadjah Mada, Fac Med Publ Hlth & Nursing, Dept Hlth Behav Environm & Social Med, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; [Rahadian, Bayu; Ariyanto, Muhammad Aziz] Indonesian Minist Youth & Sport, Jakarta, Indonesia; [Niamilah, Ibtidau; Solichah, Kurnia Mar'atus] Aisyiyah Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Nutr Dept, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; [Sahdani, Firda; Reswati, Vigur Dinda Yulia] Univ Gadjah Mada, Fac Med Publ Hlth & Nursing, Dept Biostat Epidemiol & Populat Hlth, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; [Dewinta, Mustika Cahya Nirmala] Ahmad Dahlan Univ, Fac Publ Hlth, Nutr Study Program, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; [Bactiar, Nia] FIRST Sports Nutr Consulting, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; [Penggalih, Mirza Hapsari Sakti Titis] Univ Gadjah Mada, Fac Med Publ Hlth & Nursing, Hlth Nutr Dept, Yogyakarta, Indonesia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001488492900001	40	Article; Article		
J	Neupert, Emma C.; Holder, Tim; Jobson, Simon A.								Evaluating a behaviour change intervention to enhance athlete monitoring system engagement: Insights from elite sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1467	1477		10.1177/17479541251338804			AUG 2025	2025	Athlete engagement with monitoring remains challenging, despite athlete monitoring systems (AMS) having the potential to enhance performance. Behaviour change frameworks may offer strategies to improve AMS engagement, but are underutilised in elite sport. This study assessed the practicality and utility of a behaviour change intervention (BCI) to improve AMS engagement. Three national team coaches (43.6 +/- 10.0 years) and eight athletes (20.1 +/- 2.0 years) participated in a six-month BCI to promote AMS adherence to daily monitoring using the Behaviour Change Wheel (BCW). All participants completed pre and post intervention semi-structured interviews, which were thematically analysed. Adherence to monitoring declined during the intervention, but the coaches reported improved athlete awareness of monitoring. Reduced adherence could be attributed to the partial implementation of the intervention caused by coaching personnel changes. In the post intervention interviews athletes indicated there was considerable intercoach variability in AMS use and feedback to athletes, frustrating both athletes and coaches. The coaches noted athletes lacked motivation and understanding of the AMS and its purpose, further hindering engagement. Overall, the use of the BCW enabled a feasible intervention to be devised, but the BCW proved cumbersome to adapt to the swift organisational changes often experienced in elite sport. Future interventions should consider ensuring a consistent and shared framework for AMS use between staff. Behaviour change targets should have contingencies for organisational changes, and focus on key interactions such as the coach/athlete relationship, its inter-relation with AMS data, and the feedback of data between the coach, athlete and practitioner.		[Neupert, Emma C.] Univ Portsmouth, Sch Psychol Sport & Hlth Sci, Portsmouth, England; [Neupert, Emma C.; Holder, Tim] Univ Winchester, Sch Sport Hlth & Community, Winchester, England; [Jobson, Simon A.] Univ Winchester, Fac Hlth & Wellbeing, Winchester, England; [Neupert, Emma C.] Univ Portsmouth, Sch Psychol Sport & Hlth Sci, Portsmouth, England; [Neupert, Emma C.] Univ Winchester, Sch Sport Hlth & Community, Winchester, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001488488900001	56	Article; Article		
J	Tavares Junior, Antonio Carlos; da Silva, Luiz Henrique; Pimenta, Thiago Farias da Fonseca; Dos-Santos, Julio Wilson								The Japanese judo training process from a perspective related to long-term athlete development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2185	2196		10.1177/17479541251339908			OCT 2025	2025	The study aims to describe the organizational and methodological aspects of Japanese judo in its various stages of preparation and verify their relationship with the principles of Long-Term Athlete Development. This data originated from the analysis of the author's material obtained during the exchange program "Discovery Camp: Tomorrow's Friends Programme Judo for School PE 2019." The manuscript has an observational design with a descriptive profile and a qualitative approach through a case study. Based on the observations that the exchange provided, the results indicate a convergence between the methodology and organization of Japanese judo and the proposals of Long-Term Athlete Development. Above all, this convergence pertains to the content and objectives of each phase, as well as the transitions between the various preparation periods, which include adaptations to competition rules and the gradual physical, technical, and tactical development of judokas, without concern for the immediacy of results. The methodology applied in the preparation process of Japanese judo can be divided into periods: Sports Initiation, which advocates acquiring a wide range of motor skills; Initial Specialization, progressing to a wide variety of skills specific to judo; the Specialization phase, during which there is significant technical and tactical deepening along with the improvement of physical capacities necessary for performance; and the high-performance phase, focusing on competitive results.		[Tavares Junior, Antonio Carlos; Dos-Santos, Julio Wilson] Sao Paulo State Univ Julio Mesquita Filho UNESP, Dept Phys Educ, Bauru, SP, Brazil; [Tavares Junior, Antonio Carlos; Dos-Santos, Julio Wilson] Sao Paulo State Univ Julio Mesquita Filho UNESP, Postgrad Program Movement Sci, Bauru, SP, Brazil; [da Silva, Luiz Henrique] Santa Cruz State Univ UESC, Dept Phys Educ, Ilheus, Brazil; [Pimenta, Thiago Farias da Fonseca] Santa Maria Fed Univ UFSM, Dept Phys Educ, Santa Maria, Brazil; [Tavares Junior, Antonio Carlos] Sao Paulo State Univ Julio Mesquita Filho UNESP, Dept Phys Educ, Bauru, SP, Brazil; [Tavares Junior, Antonio Carlos] Sao Paulo State Univ Julio Mesquita Filho UNESP, Postgrad Program Movement Sci, Bauru, SP, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001488512700001	49	Article; Article		
J	Rush, Justin L.; Grooms, Dustin R.; Burland, Julie P.; Murray, Amanda M.; Bazett-Jones, David M.; Norte, Grant E.								Examining neurocognitive profiles and single-limb landing mechanics following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				18	24		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.05.001			JUL 2025	2025	Objectives: 1) Determine the relationship between neurocognitive performance and single-limb landing biomechanics 2.) Compare neurocognitive performance between individuals with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) and uninjured controls. Design: Cross-Sectional. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Eighteen participants with ACLR and 18 matched uninjured controls. Main outcome measures: Immediate Post-Concussion Assessment and Cognitive Testing: Visual Memory, Visual-Motor and Reaction Time Composite Scores. Single-limb landing biomechanics: peak knee flexion angles, peak internal knee adduction moments, and peak ground reaction forces. Results: There were no statistically significant correlations between neurocognitive performance and single-limb landing biomechanics. Individuals with ACLR and uninjured controls exhibited similar neurocognitive performance (all p > .05). Conclusions: The lack of associations between single-limb landing biomechanics and neurocognitive performance may suggest that computerized neurocognitive assessments are not sensitive enough to identify individuals demonstrating biomechanical loading patterns associated with ACL injury. Neurocognitive-motor assessments that specifically challenge knee motor control may be more appropriate to discern high and low neurocognitive profiles.		[Rush, Justin L.; Bazett-Jones, David M.] Univ Toledo, Dept Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Toledo, OH USA; [Rush, Justin L.; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Coll Hlth Sci & Profess, Sch Rehabil & Commun Sci, Div Phys Therapy, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Rush, Justin L.; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Ohio Musculoskeletal & Neurol Inst, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Grad Coll, Translat Biomed Sci Program, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Burland, Julie P.] Univ Connecticut, Inst Sports Med, Storrs, CT USA; [Murray, Amanda M.] Univ Toledo, Dept Phys Therapy, Toledo, OH USA; [Norte, Grant E.] Univ Cent Florida, Inst Exercise Physiol & Rehabil Sci, Cognit Neuroplast & Sarcopenia CNS Lab, Orlando, FL USA; [Rush, Justin L.] Ohio Univ, Div Phys Therapy, 290 West Grover Ctr, Athens, OH 45701 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001492279500001	39	Article; Article		
J	Weiss, Doria L.; Law, Christian K.; Yendluri, Avanish; Zhang, Daniel X.; Obana, Kyle K.; Danaher, Michael J.; Parisien, Robert L.; Trofa, David P.								Rising trends in pediatric fractures associated with electric scooter use seen in emergency departments between 2014 and 2023								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	6			423	429		10.1080/00913847.2025.2502323			NOV 2 2025	2025	IntroductionAs the use of electric scooters (e-scooters) has significantly increased in the past decade, there has been a concomitant rise in e-scooter related injuries. This study aims to analyze trends and mechanisms of e-scooter fractures in the US pediatric population. We hypothesized that there would be a significant increase in pediatric e-scooter fractures particularly from 2020 to 2023, with forearm fractures being the most prominent.MethodsThe National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) was queried for pediatric (age <= 18) e-scooter fractures reported at US EDs between 1 January 2014, and 31 December 2023. The mechanisms of injury and specific bone(s) that were fractured were identified using the injury narrative. Trends in fracture patterns were analyzed using linear regression analysis.ResultsA total of 669 pediatric e-scooter fractures (NE = 18,103) were included. There was a significant increase in pediatric fractures from 2014 to 2023 (p = .011). In addition, there was a 2.7-fold increase in the annual average fracture incidence from pre-COVID (2017-2019) to post-COVID (2021-2023). The most common body part fractured was the lower arm (NE = 5,047, 27.9%) and wrist (NE = 4,765, 26.3%). The most common bone fractured was the radius (NE = 3,681, 33.8%) followed by the clavicle (NE = 952, 8.7%). The most common mechanisms of injury were falling off of the e-scooter (NE = 14,513, 80.2%) followed by impact with stationary obstacles (NE = 1,721; 9.5%).ConclusionThe prevalence of fractures in the pediatric population due to e-scooter use has risen significantly in the past decade, particularly since COVID-19. The lower arm and wrist were the most commonly affected, with the radius being the most frequently fractured bone. These findings highlight the need for enhanced regulation and safety measures to prevent fractures in young riders.		[Weiss, Doria L.; Law, Christian K.; Obana, Kyle K.; Danaher, Michael J.; Trofa, David P.] Columbia Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed, New York, NY 10032 USA; [Yendluri, Avanish; Parisien, Robert L.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New York, NY USA; [Zhang, Daniel X.] Childrens Natl Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Washington, DC USA; [Weiss, Doria L.] Columbia Univ, Irving Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Div Shoulder Elbow & Sports Med, 622 W 168th St,11th Floor, New York, NY 10032 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001484061100001	39	Article; Article		
J	Mateus, Nuno; Coutinho, Diogo; Santos, Sara; Goncalves, Bruno; Abrantes, Catarina; Sampaio, Jaime								Clustered Lifestyle Profiles of Adolescent Football Players: Examining the Relationship Between Off-Training Lifestyle and Training Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			748	760		10.1080/02701367.2025.2496268			OCT 2 2025	2025	This study clustered young male football players based on off-training physical activity (PA) and sedentary behavior (SB) to examine their impact on physical and technical-tactical performance in small-sided-games (SSG). In Stage 1, thirty-four adolescent male football players (mean age 14.2 +/- 0.8 years) were monitored for one week using tri-axial accelerometers to quantify PA and SB levels. Participants were classified into two groups: Active (higher moderate-to-vigorous PA and lower SB) and Sedentary (higher SB and lower PA). In Stage 2, sixteen players, divided into four teams, participated in SSG. Two teams comprised players from the Active group (ACT) and two from the Sedentary group (SED). They competed under three conditions: IACTvsACT; IIACTvsSED; and IIISEDvsSED. Cumming estimation plots illustrated that ACT players in IACTvsACT covered greater total distance (d = -1.43), distances in jogging (d = -0.69), running (d = -1.33), and sprinting (d = -1.26), with higher player load (d = -1.28) and decelerations (d = -0.58), but lower walking distances (d = 0.79), successful shots (d = 0.87), passes (d = 1.17), and dribbles (d = 0.89) compared to other conditions.. SED players in IIISEDvsSED showed higher running distances (d = 0.76) and more decelerations (d = 0.7) but fewer passes. Bayesian ANOVA confirmed longer distances and more sprints in IACTvsACT versus IIISEDvsSED, with Bayes factors of 6.50 and 9.48, respectively. Clustering young players based on off-training PA and SB profiles affects SSG performance, with teams having lower PA and higher SB showing compromised physical and technical-tactical outcomes. Coaches can use this information to tailor training, enhance learning environments, and optimize player development.		[Mateus, Nuno; Coutinho, Diogo; Santos, Sara; Abrantes, Catarina; Sampaio, Jaime] CIDESD, Elite Res Community, Vila Real, Portugal; [Mateus, Nuno; Santos, Sara; Abrantes, Catarina; Sampaio, Jaime] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Vila Real, Portugal; [Mateus, Nuno; Coutinho, Diogo] Univ Maia, Vila Real, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Vila Real, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Vila Real, Portugal; [Mateus, Nuno] Dept Ciencias Desporto Exercicio & Saude, Quinta Prados, P-5000801 Vila Real, Portugal								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001485891100001	55	Article; Article		
J	Marques-Jimenez, Diego; Izquierdo, Jose M.; Castillo, Daniel; Losa-Reyna, Jose; Dominguez-Diez, Marta; Ramirez-Jimenez, Miguel								Post-match recovery of change of direction performance in soccer: Examining change of direction deficit and asymmetries								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2011	2019		10.1177/17479541251340290			OCT 2025	2025	This study aimed to analyze the influence of a soccer match on change of direction performance immediately and after a 48-h recovery period, with special focus on change of direction deficit and change of direction asymmetries. Fifteen outfield male soccer players who belonged to the same regional-level team participated in this study (age: 27.20 +/- 5.30 years; height: 176.20 +/- 6.46 cm; body mass: 73.80 +/- 10.36 kg; tier 2). A repeated-measures observational design was used, with two data collection periods during the competitive period of one season (i.e., midseason and end-season). Each data collection period included one official match and their corresponding 48-h recovery period. The 30-m linear straight sprint test and the 505 change of direction test were conducted at pre-, post- and 48-h post-match. Findings show increased change of direction completion time at post- (p = 0.030) and 48-h post-match (p < 0.001), greater change of direction deficit at 48-h post-match (p < 0.001) regardless of the method for classifying lower-limb dominance (i.e., dominant and non-dominant in the change of direction test, preferred and non-preferred kicking limb), and impaired change of direction performance with preferred kicking limb immediately after the match (p = 0.024). Thus, the acute and residual fatigue-induced by a soccer match resulted in different alterations at post- and 48-h post-match in both change of direction deficit and change of direction asymmetries. These results may be applicable by practitioners interested in understanding the influence of a soccer match on change of direction performance.		[Marques-Jimenez, Diego; Izquierdo, Jose M.; Castillo, Daniel; Ramirez-Jimenez, Miguel] Univ ofValladolid, Fac Educ, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Valorac Rendimiento Deport Act Fis & Salud & Les D, Soria, Spain; [Losa-Reyna, Jose] King Juan Carlos Univ, Sports Sci Res Ctr, Madrid, Spain; [Losa-Reyna, Jose] CIBER Frailty & Hlth Aging CIBERFES, Madrid, Spain; [Dominguez-Diez, Marta] Univ Valladolid, Fac Educ, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Soria, Spain; [Marques-Jimenez, Diego] Univ Valladolid, Fac Educ, Calle Univ s-n, Soria 42004, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001484641800001	43	Article; Article		
J	Love, Dave; Otte, Fabian; Davids, Keith								Skill adaptation in basketball coaching - harnessing periodization and individualization in scheduling NBA shooting practice								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2170	2184		10.1177/17479541251341425			OCT 2025	2025	As professional sports organizations increasingly prioritize individualized player development, specialist shooting coaches have increasingly been identified as important contributors to player development and on-court performance (as evidenced by recent statistics on National Basketball Association (NBA) teams hiring more shooting coaches). This applied case analysis reveals insights on the work of professional shooting coach, in alignment with contemporary motor learning theorizing and the 'Periodization of Skill Training' ('PoST') framework. Drawing on the theory of ecological dynamics, this study highlights the trajectory of personalized shooting development in response to evolving NBA performance dynamics, including the increasing reliance of players on three-point shooting. Through practical and conceptual basketball case examples of experiences of NBA shooting coaches, we look at how individual coaching interventions can support player adaptations to dynamic performance environments. Application of the 'PoST' framework in basketball shooting coaching provides a systematic and structured periodization and training approach to skill learning, highlighting the importance of movement coordination, adaptability, and performance training in player preparation and development.		[Love, Dave] NBA Shooting Coach, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sch Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, England; [Love, Dave] 187 Royal Oak Hts NW, Calgary, AB T3G 5V4, Canada								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001484314600001	49	Article; Article		
J	Ramanayaka, Nilantha Dinesh; Dickson, Geoff; Libich, Jan; Rayne, Daniel								Susceptibility to cognitive biases in athlete-team selection								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1937	1949		10.1177/17479541251338508			OCT 2025	2025	Humans are not immune to cognitive biases in judgment and decision-making. However, little is known about cognitive biases (i.e., a departure from rationality in judgements and decision-making) involved in athlete-team selection by coaches or specialist selectors, which can have a major impact on the team's success. To provide further insight, our research explores the extent to which coaches/selectors perceive they are susceptible to cognitive bias. Twelve national-level coaches/selectors were interviewed (semi-structured) under an interpretive phenomenological research design. Using reflective thematic analysis of the data, we offer three main findings. First, coaches/selectors are susceptible to multi-causal cognitive biases in athlete-team selection. Second, the driving force behind such biases is a phenomenon known as "conflict in cognitive dissonance". Third, such suboptimal behaviour is perpetuated by the coaches'/selectors' "oversight of cognitive biases". We offer a number of policy recommendations that promote effective and unbiased selection processes in sports (and more broadly in society), enhancing equity as well as performance excellence.		[Ramanayaka, Nilantha Dinesh] Univ Kelaniya, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Colombo, Sri Lanka; [Dickson, Geoff; Libich, Jan] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Business Sch, Melbourne, Australia; [Libich, Jan] VSB Tech Univ Ostrava, Fac Econ, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Rayne, Daniel] RMIT Univ, Dept Econ Finance & Mkt, Melbourne, Australia; [Dickson, Geoff] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Business Sch, Melbourne, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001483484100001	84	Article; Article		
J	Yilli, Sercan; Turgut, Elif								Competitive swimming and shoulder adaptations: The role of stroke specialty in adolescent swimmers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				1	8		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.04.008			JUL 2025	2025	Objectives: To examine sport-specific adaptations and the influence of stroke specialization on the shoulder complex among adolescent competitive swimmers. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Athletic facilities. Participants: 76 adolescents (14.3 +/- 1.3 years), including 28 non-swimmers (Control Group, CG) and 48 competitive swimmers (Swimmers Group, SWG). Main outcome measures: Strength of glenohumeral (GH) and scapular muscles (SM), GH joint mobility (GH ROMs), proprioception, pectoralis minor length (PML), and posterior shoulder tightness (PST) were evaluated. The Kerlan-Jobe Orthopaedic Clinic (KJOC) Score was used to evaluate shoulder function in the SWG. A tested shoulder physical performance parameters were compared between the groups. Results: Comparisons showed that all GH, SM strength measures and PML were higher in the SWG (p < 0.05). GH ER/IR ratio was lower in SWG (MD = 0.8-0.11 N, p < 0.05). GH ROM comparisons revealed decreased IR and increased ER and total rotational ROM in the SWG (p < 0.05). No differences in proprioception or PST were found (p > 0.05). Additionally, no significant differences were observed when all parameters were compared among SWG subgroups based on stroke specialization (p > 0.05). Conclusions: Adolescent competitive swimmers exhibited sport-specific, but not stroke-specific, adaptations in the shoulder complex.		[Yilli, Sercan; Turgut, Elif] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Phys Therapy & Rehabil, TR-06100 Samanpazari, Ankara, Turkiye; [Turgut, Elif] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Phys Therapy & Rehabil, TR-06100 Samanpazari, Ankara, Turkiye								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001488859500001	55	Article; Article		
J	Patel, Sabina M.; Napoli, Sarah; Balabyekkubo, Ketura; Keebler, Joseph R.; Lazzara, Elizabeth H.								Courting greatness: Evaluation of the relationship between talent and team performance in the WNBA								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2060	2066		10.1177/17479541251333929			OCT 2025	2025	There has been a recent rise in interest and funding in women's professional sports, specifically the WNBA. This has created an increased pool of talented players that coaches have to sort through to identify whom they want on their teams. Prior literature has researched the relationship between talent and the quantity of talented players on NBA teams, but this has not been evaluated within the WNBA. As such, the present works investigate this relationship through a regression analysis operationalizing talent as either plus-minus ratings (PM) or player impact estimates (PIE) and team performance as regular season wins. Results from this analysis indicate that teams with a higher quantity of top talent tend to win more games during the regular season when utilizing both PIE (F(2, 117) = 120.37, p < .05) and PM as a measure of talent (F(2, 117) = 120.37, p < .001). These findings create novel insights to assist coaches in their decision-making for player selections.		[Patel, Sabina M.; Napoli, Sarah; Balabyekkubo, Ketura; Keebler, Joseph R.; Lazzara, Elizabeth H.] Embry Riddle Aeronaut Univ, Dept Human Factors & Behav Neurobiol, Daytona Beach, FL 32114 USA; [Lazzara, Elizabeth H.] Embry Riddle Aeronaut Univ, Dept Human Factors & Behav Neurobiol, Daytona Beach, FL 32114 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001481169700001	24	Article; Article		
J	Mokha, G. Monique; Bonsangue, Marissa; Brezina, ToniAnn; Haberer, Jacob								Training alters joint power distributions during running in National Football League Draft Preparation Players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2662	2679		10.1080/14763141.2025.2498338			SEP 2 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to compare joint-specific contributions to total lower limb joint power during a speed run in American style football players before and after a 6-week National Football League (NFL) draft preparation camp. Fifty-two players performed one 5-second treadmill run at 5.5-6.5 m/s before and after camp. Speed was consistent between tests. Bilateral hip, knee, and ankle power generation (positive) and absorption (negative) were calculated from kinematics and kinetics using inverse dynamics. Negative total limb power decreased for both limbs, significantly for the left (Z = -2.113, p = .035, r = .30) due to significant decreases in negative ankle power bilaterally (left, Z = -1.967, p = .049, r = .27; right, Z = -2.623, p = .009, r = .36). The contribution of negative left hip power significantly increased (Z = -2.398, p = .016, r = .31). While no other significant changes in positive or negative joint-specific magnitudes or contributions occurred, there were general distal-to-proximal shifts in joint power contributions. Players appear to have adopted more energy efficient running through moderate joint-specific mechanistic training adaptations such as a reduction in ankle power absorption.		[Mokha, G. Monique; Bonsangue, Marissa; Brezina, ToniAnn; Haberer, Jacob] Nova Southeastern Univ, Exercise & Sport Sci, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33328 USA; [Mokha, G. Monique] Nova Southeastern Univ, Exercise & Sport Sci, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33328 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001480330300001	63	Article; Article		
J	Gulavani, Susmit S.; Dai, Shushan; Du, James; Sato, Mikihiro; Newman, Joshua								Associative personalities: investigating the impact of gender personality congruence between sport brands and individuals on life satisfaction								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				27	2			249	279		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2024-0275			MAY 8 2026	2026	PurposeThe research investigates the concept of sport brand gender personality and its effects on life satisfaction through the lens of self-congruence theory and the transformative sport research paradigm. Particularly, the research examines the impact of congruence between an individual's perceived gender personality and the gender personality of athleisure brands on life satisfaction and whether brand loyalty mediates this relationship.Design/methodology/approachThe research employs a case-based approach, focusing on athleisure brands to analyze how the alignment between an individual's perceptions of gender personality and sport brand gender personality affects life satisfaction. The research leverages polynomial regression with response surface analysis and a mediated value congruence structural regression analysis to test the proposed relationships.FindingsThe findings indicate that gender personality congruence between athleisure sport brands and individuals enhances evaluations of life satisfaction. However, the strength of the congruence effects varied across the different gender personality values, and its impact on life satisfaction was contingent upon individuals' salience to a particular value. Additionally, brand loyalty, including both attitudinal and purchase loyalty, mediates the relationship between gender personality congruence and life satisfaction.Originality/valueThe research contributes to the sport marketing literature by demonstrating how gender personality congruence influences consumer behavior by emphasizing the need for branding strategies that align with consumers' self-concepts.		[Gulavani, Susmit S.] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Dai, Shushan] Univ Massachusetts Boston, Sch Psychol & Sport, Counseling, Boston, MA 02125 USA; [Du, James] Florida State Univ, Dept Sport Management, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Sato, Mikihiro] Univ Illinois, Champaign, IL USA; [Newman, Joshua] Florida State Univ, Tallahassee, FL USA; [Gulavani, Susmit S.] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001479913900001	85	Article; Article		
J	Reardon, Claudia L.; Claussen, Malte Christian; Creado, Shane; Currie, Alan; Edwards, Carla D.								Psychiatric treatment preferences of sports psychiatrists for athlete-patients across competitive levels: a 2024 update								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	5			406	416		10.1080/00913847.2025.2495545			SEP 3 2025	2025	ObjectivesOnly two small, prior studies ascertained psychiatric treatment preferences for athletes among sports psychiatrists. This study aims to build upon and update those results by describing comprehensive psychiatric treatment preferences and rationales for those preferences, across competitive levels of athletes, among practicing sports psychiatrists.MethodsIn 2024, organizations with large concentrations of sports psychiatrists were provided an invitation regarding an anonymous, web-based survey on psychiatric treatment preferences in working with athletes with mental health symptoms and disorders.ResultsSeventy-five respondents who identified as psychiatrists or psychiatrists in training and who had treated athlete-patients within the past 3 years completed the survey. Top choices of psychiatric medications for athletes included bupropion for depression without anxiety; escitalopram for depression with anxiety, generalized anxiety disorder, and social anxiety disorder; sertraline for obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorder; melatonin for insomnia; methylphenidate extended release osmotic-controlled release oral delivery system for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder; aripiprazole for bipolar spectrum disorder (manic/hypomanic phase); lamotrigine for bipolar spectrum disorder (depressive and maintenance/prophylaxis phases); and aripiprazole for psychotic disorders. Regarding side effects, respondents reported being most concerned about sedation/somnolence, weight gain, and reduction in performance. The majority of respondents indicated they order a variety of medical evaluations at least as often or more often with athletes compared to non-athletes. The first choice of psychotherapy setting was individual psychotherapy, followed by family therapy, and then a tie between couples therapy and group therapy. The preferred type of psychotherapy was cognitive behavioral therapy followed by a tie among behavioral therapy, dialectical behavioral therapy, and mindfulness.ConclusionSports psychiatrists tend to prefer medications that are relatively more energizing and less likely to cause weight gain. They undertake medical evaluations for their athlete-patients with relatively great frequency. Their preferred psychotherapy types are skills-based and can be completed within relatively short time-frames.		[Reardon, Claudia L.] Univ Wisconsin, Sch Med & Publ Hlth, Dept Psychiat, 6001 Res Pk Blvd, Madison, WI 53719 USA; [Claussen, Malte Christian] Univ Zurich, Ctr Psychiat Res, Dept Adult Psychiat & Psychotherapy, Res Grp Sports Psychiat,Psychiat Univ Clin Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; [Claussen, Malte Christian] Psychiat Ctr Muensingen, Clin Depress & Anxiety, Muensingen, Switzerland; [Creado, Shane] Amen Clin, Bannockburn, IL USA; [Currie, Alan] Cumbria Northumberland Tyne & Wear NHS Fdn Trust, Wolfson Res Ctr, Reg Affect Disorders Serv, Campus Ageing & Vital, Newcastle Upon Tyne, England; [Currie, Alan] Manchester Inst Hlth & Performance, UK Sports Inst, Mental Hlth Expert Panel MHEP, Manchester, England; [Edwards, Carla D.] McMaster Univ, Michael G DeGroote Sch Med, Soutch Kitchener, ON, Canada; [Reardon, Claudia L.] Univ Wisconsin, Sch Med & Publ Hlth, Dept Psychiat, 6001 Res Pk Blvd, Madison, WI 53719 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001478618600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Mahmoudkhani, Mohammadreza; Alizadeh, Fatemeh; Khodsiyani, Elham; Norouzi, Mehdi								The epidemiology of injuries in professional sitting volleyball athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	5			417	422		10.1080/00913847.2025.2498317			SEP 3 2025	2025	Objectives This study investigated the epidemiology of injury among players at the Iran Sitting Volleyball Super League 2023-2024. Methods A total of 56 athletes from 6 teams, representing 47% of all athletes in the Super League, took part in this study. Injury data were obtained retrospectively through one-by-one interview sessions and a questionnaire. Results A total of 80 injuries were reported in 30 athletes at the Iran Sitting Volleyball (SV) Professional League. The injury proportion (IP) (%) of all athletes who sustained an injury during the League was 53.6%, with an overall incidence of 16.2 injuries per 1000 athlete days (95% CI 12.7 to 19.8). There was a significantly higher incidence of injury during the competition period (33.5 (95% CI 16.5 to 50.4)) compared with the pre-competition period (14.5 (95% CI 11.0 to 18.0); IR:2.31 (95% CI 1.3 to 4.0); p < 0.01). There were no significant differences between post and age groups concerning injury rate in the overall period. The injuries incurred are mostly re-injuries, and the anatomical areas of the fingers, wrist, and shoulder are at the most risk for injury. Conclusion This study provides important baseline data for medical staff and coaches, aiding in better preparation for long-term competitions and improving injury prevention programs for this sport.		[Mahmoudkhani, Mohammadreza; Alizadeh, Fatemeh; Khodsiyani, Elham; Norouzi, Mehdi] Univ Tehran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Sport Injuries & Correct Exercises, North Kargar St, Tehran 1439813117, Iran; [Mahmoudkhani, Mohammadreza] Univ Tehran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Sport Injuries & Correct Exercises, North Kargar St, Tehran 1439813117, Iran								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001478173000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Ortez, Dana J.; Gorman, Adam D.; Coulter, Tristan J.								Comparing elite sport coaches' pressure training practices to recommended guidelines								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1395	1408		10.1177/17479541251333935			AUG 2025	2025	This study reports the application of elite sport coaches' pressure training practices and the extent to which these individuals followed a multi-phased pressure training framework, recently proposed by Fletcher and Arnold (2021). Nine Australian sport coaches participated in the study. Participants included coaches of current or former elite-level athletes, and were either currently using, or had previously used, pressure training activities in their training sessions. Participation involved undertaking semi-structured interviews, with interview questions tailored to the three phases (design, implementation, debrief and review) of Fletcher and Arnold's multi-phased framework (Fletcher and Arnold, 2021). In addition, the coaches were asked to comment on their perceived facilitators and challenges involved in designing and implementing their pressure training tasks. The results showed disparity between the recommended framework and the coaches' current uses of pressure training. The study revealed that, although coaches understood pressure training and believed it to be beneficial, no participant followed the multi-phased framework in its entirety. All participants expressed facing limitations regarding adequate knowledge, support, and resources when attempting to conduct pressure training interventions in their respective sports. It is recommended that future researchers collaborate closely with elite coaches to explore their training practices and determine how to best support their use of pressure training.		[Ortez, Dana J.; Gorman, Adam D.; Coulter, Tristan J.] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci 1, Brisbane, Australia; [Ortez, Dana J.] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001477831100001	30	Article; Article		
J	Mencia, Eneko Sanchez; Campos-Rius, Josep; Mena, Erika Borrajo								Design and Validation of a Questionnaire for the Assessment of Tennis Players' Tactical Skills (TST)								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			697	705		10.1080/02701367.2025.2488847			OCT 2 2025	2025	The aim of the present study was to develop and validate a self-assessment questionnaire for tactical skills in tennis. This is the first questionnaire to assess tactical skills in this discipline to our knowledge. The study sample consisted of 253 tennis players at the expert, intermediate, and beginner levels. The age of the tennis players ranged from 18 to 70 years. The results of the content analysis of the questionnaire revealed a three-factor structure, consisting of tactics used in training, tactics used in the match, and decision making in the match, with adequate psychometric properties. Analyses of variance were carried out to compare the results for these three tactical factors with the level of play (expert, intermediate, and beginner) and player profile (complete, serve-volley, offensive, and counter-attacking player). These results showed that expert players scored higher on all three factors. Furthermore, players with a complete profile had statistically higher scores across all three factors compared to serve-volley players. The results and their implications are then discussed.		[Mencia, Eneko Sanchez; Mena, Erika Borrajo] Univ Deusto, Deusto, Spain; [Campos-Rius, Josep] Blanquerna URL, Barcelona, Spain; [Mencia, Eneko Sanchez] Univ Deusto, Educ & Sports Fac, Avda Univ, 24, Bilbao 48007, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001474208100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Medernach, Jerry Prosper; Henz, Julian; Memmert, Daniel; Sanchez, Xavier								The Climbing Movement Repertoire in Olympic Bouldering: Exploring Its Role in Decision-Making, Performance, and Time Constraint Management								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			677	688		10.1080/02701367.2025.2485188			OCT 2 2025	2025	In Olympic bouldering, climbers must solve a series of boulders, which are short routes set on low-height climbing walls. Time constraints imposed by competition regulations limit the time available for strategic decisions and climbing attempts. An extensive climbing movement repertoire helps climbers to identify meaningful movement patterns and anticipate climbing solutions. Expert routesetters-those climbers responsible for setting boulders-have been described to possess an extensive climbing movement repertoire. This study explored the role of the movement repertoire as an underlying cognitive system in decision-making, climbing performance, and time constraint management in Olympic bouldering. A total of 48 elite climbers-including 24 climbers with professional routesetting expertise (RS) and 24 climbers without any routesetting expertise (NR)-were tasked with climbing two boulders under varying time constraints (B1: four minutes; B2: two minutes). Data collected included non-stored climbing movements, strategic decision-making, and performance-related variables. In both boulders, the RS group had fewer non-stored climbing movements, showed enhanced decision-making skills (shorter previewing times, more effective climbing solutions, fewer strategic adjustments), and achieved better climbing performances (higher top rates, fewer attempts, higher holds in best attempts). Furthermore, in B2, the RS group was less perturbed by increased time constraints, showing a smaller decline in non-stored climbing movements, strategic decision-making, and climbing performance compared to the NR group. Routesetting expertise appears to be a relevant performance parameter in climbing. Climbers with such expertise benefit from their extensive movement repertoire to make efficient decisions, optimize performance, and effectively manage time constraints.		[Medernach, Jerry Prosper; Henz, Julian; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Medernach, Jerry Prosper] Univ Luxembourg, Esch Sur Alzette, Luxembourg; [Sanchez, Xavier] Univ Orleans, Orleans, France; [Sanchez, Xavier] Univ Paris Saclay, Paris, France; [Medernach, Jerry Prosper] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001474189900001	50	Article; Article		
J	Pattison, William; Martins, Ricardo; Stringer, Amy; Postlethwaite, Ruth D.; Pattison, Nicola; Gosling, James; Duncan, Michael								What are the barriers and underutilised facilitators for physical activity for children living with cerebral palsy? Could living-labs help provide an answer?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1906	1917		10.1177/17479541251335499			OCT 2025	2025	Using a living lab approach this study explored the barriers and facilitators for physical activity (PA) for children living with cerebral palsy (CP). Ten children (nine boys, one girl) and nine parents (3 male, 6 female) participated in one-to-one interviews and focus groups, respectfully. Interviews and focus groups aimed to explore their perceptions of the barriers and facilitators for PA faced by children living with CP in daily life. Children participated in game-based practices in the Living-Lab, which aimed to develop facets of their physical literacy. Children then engaged in focus groups to explore their experiences of the Living-Lab. Pen profiles generated through thematic analysis of child interviews and parental focus groups revealed that barriers to PA included: weather, culture of mainstream sport, lack of awareness of opportunities, peers and coaches. Conversely, facilitators (that were often underutilised) included: parents, siblings, peers, coaches, football, storylines/themes, child's autonomy and awareness of opportunities. A subsequent pen profile addressed how the Living-lab empowered these underutilised facilitators and broke the previously presented barriers, demonstrating how children enjoyed collaborating with peers and siblings and developed positive relationships with coaches through the games-based practices. All children expressed a love for football, with older children enjoying competitive games, more representative of a football match and younger children just happy to score in "real nets". Children also enjoyed the storylines used in practices. This study provides insights into the perceived barriers and facilitators for PA for children living with CP and demonstrates how Living-Lab methodology addresses these factors.		[Pattison, William; Martins, Ricardo; Stringer, Amy; Postlethwaite, Ruth D.; Duncan, Michael] Coventry Univ, Ctr Phys Act Sport & Exercise Sci, Coventry, England; [Pattison, Nicola] Derbyshire Cty Council, Sensory & Phys Support Serv, Matlock, England; [Gosling, James] Bilton Sch, Dept Phys Educ, Rugby, England; [Pattison, William] Coventry Univ, Ctr Phys Act Sport & Exercise Sci, Coventry, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001475111500001	44	Article; Article		
J	Roux, Valentin; Trouilloud, David								Longitudinal associations between coach-athlete relationship quality and individual injury rate among young handball players: A variable and person-centered approach in intensive training centers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1341	1349		10.1177/17479541251334632			AUG 2025	2025	This study explores the potential associations between the evolution of coach-athlete relationship quality (in terms of closeness, commitment, and complementarity) and the athletes' individual injury rate over a sport season. 203 young French handball players (Mage = 15.38, 47.3% women) involved in intensive training centers completed a French version of the Coach-Athlete Relationship Questionnaire at the beginning, middle, and end of the season. The athlete follow-up allowed their individual injury rate over the season to be captured. Both variable and person-centered approaches were used to explore the temporal associations between these variables. A linear growth model and a multiple regression analysis indicated that the evolution of coach-athlete relationship quality was negatively related to athletes' individual injury rate over the season. In addition, latent class growth analyses and ANOVA revealed inter-individual differences in the evolution of this association, indicating that athletes who perceived a deterioration in the relationship with their coach were more often injured during the season. This study is the first to highlight a temporal association between coach-athlete relationship quality and athletes' individual injury rate over time, and thus provides stimulating perspectives for future research.		[Roux, Valentin] Nantes Univ, Movement Interact Performance, UR 4334, F-44000 Nantes, France; [Roux, Valentin; Trouilloud, David] Univ Grenoble Alpes, SENS, Grenoble, France; [Roux, Valentin] Nantes Univ, Movement Interact Performance, UR 4334, F-44000 Nantes, France								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473430800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Herruzo, Fran; Jordana, Anna; Torregrossa, Miquel								Where have I ended up? migratory experiences of coaches in the Arabian Peninsula								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1804	1813		10.1177/17479541251334052			OCT 2025	2025	Countries in the Arabian Peninsula use professional sports as a catalyst for their development and/or as a way of sportswashing. To enhance their sporting level, they have brought in coaches from other countries. This study explores the migratory experiences of six Spanish football coaches in the region, using an abductive thematic analysis. The results are organized into three themes: Pre-migration, Post-migration, and Mental Health. Migration motives are identified (e.g., socio-labour conditions in the home country, desire for professional advancement), adaptation facilitators (e.g., previous migration experiences, geographical proximity), and barriers (e.g., club, culture, language). Regarding mental health, threats are highlighted (e.g., separation from their environment, cultural differences) and protective strategies (e.g., maintaining contact with their home environment, setting boundaries on cultural adaptation). This study highlights the need for organizations to take responsibility for facilitating coaches' cultural transitions both before and after migration. It is recommended that future research explores how coaches' personal and sociocultural characteristics impact their cultural transition and mental health, the role of clubs in this process, and the experiences of female coaches.		[Herruzo, Fran; Jordana, Anna; Torregrossa, Miquel] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Psicol Basica Evolut & Educ, Bellaterra, Spain; [Herruzo, Fran; Jordana, Anna; Torregrossa, Miquel] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Sport Res Inst UAB, Bellaterra, Spain; [Herruzo, Fran] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Psicol Basica Evolut & Educ, Bellaterra, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473428100001	51	Article; Article		
J	Nutarelli, Sebastiano; Sangiorgio, Alessandro; Gilardoni, Luca; Moraca, Giacomo; Filardo, Giuseppe								Young male players exhibit higher eccentric hamstring muscle fatigue than females and older males after a basketball match participation								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				171	180		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.04.002			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: Investigating hamstring eccentric strength before and after a basketball match. Design: Cohort observational study. Setting: Playing facilities of local basketball teams on official championship matches. Participants: Forty-four healthy male and female 14-25-year-old basketball athletes. Main outcome measures: Hamstring mean, absolute peak torque, and total work were measured during the execution of the Nordic hamstring exercise before and after a match. Anterior knee laxity was also measured. Results: The results showed non-significant intersex pre- vs. post-match changes for all measured parameters. The 14-19-year-old male players showed a significantly lower post-match mean hamstring peak torque than their 2025-year-old peers (p = 0.013). Hamstring strength correlated with age in males with the younger players significantly weaker post-match than the older athletes. Younger vs. older males experienced a mean eccentric hamstring peak torque decrease of 16.4 f 38.18 Nm (-5.6 %) vs. an increase of 27.55 f 41.87 Nm (11.8 % Spearman R = 0.408), an absolute eccentric hamstring peak torque reduction of 13.32 f 35.45 Nm (- 4 %) vs. an improvement of 31.5 f 43.83 Nm (11.6 % - R = 0.434), and a hamstring work decline of 1474.5 f 1370.83 J (-19.2 %) vs. an increment of 560.32 f 1584.28 J (13.2 % - R = 0.627) respectively. Conclusions: Younger male basketball players were more fatigued post-match compared to their older same-sex peers.		[Nutarelli, Sebastiano; Sangiorgio, Alessandro; Moraca, Giacomo; Filardo, Giuseppe] EOC, Dept Surg, Serv Orthopaed & Traumatol, Via Capelli 1, CH-6962 Lugano, Switzerland; [Nutarelli, Sebastiano] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Gilardoni, Luca] PT & Sports Med Ctr, Sports Rehab, Via Balestra 11, CH-6900 Lugano, Switzerland; [Filardo, Giuseppe] Univ Svizzera Italiana, Fac Biomed Sci, Via La Santa 1, CH-6900 Lugano, Switzerland; [Nutarelli, Sebastiano] EOC, Dept Surg, Serv Orthopaed & Traumatol, Via Capelli 1, CH-6962 Lugano, Switzerland								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001479831600001	81	Article; Article		
J	da Silva, Tiago Moreira; Esteves, Pedro Tiago Matos; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Godoy, Sergio Jose Ibanez								Examining the associations between weekly training load and match running demands in professional men football players: A descriptive study reflecting contextual variables								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1997	2010		10.1177/17479541251335224			OCT 2025	2025	Increasing match running demands require players to receive appropriate stimuli for competitive scenarios. This study characterized the external load of a professional football team during an in-season microcycle and analysed its association with match outcomes (win, draw, loss). A Danish second-division team was monitored during the 2022-2023 season, tracking 25 elite players' external load using GPS across 14 microcycles. Match scores were recorded, and training sessions were categorized based on their proximity to matches. Significant differences were observed in the interaction between training days and match outcomes for total distance covered (F = 6.25, p < 0.001), high sprint running covered (F = 3.29, p = 0.001), number of accelerations (F = 3.57, p = 0.001), number of sprints (F = 2.74, p = 0.006), sprint distance covered (F = 2.85, p = 0.004), maximum speed (F = 5.87, p < 0.001), and dynamic stress load (F = 2.02, p = 0.043). This association was particularly significant on MD-4 for total distance covered, win vs loss (p = 0.031, ES: 1.71) and win vs draw (p < 0.001, ES: 2.38), and MD-3, win vs draw for high-speed running (p < 0.001, ES: 1.49) and sprint distance (p < 0.001, ES: 1.45). A significant decrease in training load across the microcycle was also noted (p < 0.001). This study suggests that intensified training loads at the beginning of the microcycle, followed by tapering appear to be associated with winning matches, whereas lower training loads may be linked to draws and losses.		[da Silva, Tiago Moreira; Godoy, Sergio Jose Ibanez] Univ Extremadura, Fac Ciencias Deporte, GOERD Grp Optimizac Entrenamiento & Rendimiento De, Caceres, Spain; [da Silva, Tiago Moreira; Esteves, Pedro Tiago Matos; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] SPRINT Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Esteves, Pedro Tiago Matos] Guarda Polytech Univ, Guarda, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [da Silva, Tiago Moreira] Univ Extremadura, Fac Ciencias Deporte, GOERD Grp Optimizac Entrenamiento & Rendimiento De, Caceres, Spain; [da Silva, Tiago Moreira] SPRINT Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Rio Maior, Portugal								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473835300001	49	Article; Article		
J	Stoneman, Baylee; Olthof, Sigrid B. H.; Burns, Geoffrey T.; Wong, Alex; Zernicke, Ronald F.								Seasonal variation of accelerations and decelerations by position in male basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1608	1616		10.1177/17479541251333947			AUG 2025	2025	During basketball training and competition, players perform accelerations and decelerations, changes of direction, and jumps with little recovery. These movements place a range of loads on the players' bodies and vary across positions and over time. Limited research has quantified biomechanical loads longitudinally using game data and the ratio of accelerations to decelerations. This study investigated positional differences in accelerations, decelerations, and an acceleration-to-deceleration (AD) ratio in training and competition throughout a single season. Data from collegiate male basketball players (NCAA D-I) were collected with player tracking devices, Catapult Optimeye S5, for 30 games and 89 practices during the 2019-2020 season. Starting guards (n = 2), forwards (n = 3), and centers (n = 2) played more than 20 games and averaged more than 10 min/game. Significantly lower values occurred in practice vs. games for all metrics (p < .05). The biomechanical loads produced significantly different player-position profiles, and practice vs. game differences provided insights into AD ratio variations. Longitudinal changes revealed a significant decrease in the AD ratio and its day-to-day variation. These data provide a basis for assessing player performance, and future studies can extend the current analyses to examine performance changes between game segments and evaluate player performance changes at weekly levels across a season.		[Stoneman, Baylee; Burns, Geoffrey T.; Zernicke, Ronald F.] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Olthof, Sigrid B. H.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Olthof, Sigrid B. H.; Burns, Geoffrey T.; Zernicke, Ronald F.] Univ Michigan, Human Performance & Sport Sci Ctr, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Burns, Geoffrey T.] US Olymp & Paralymp Comm, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [Wong, Alex] Univ Michigan, Univ Michigan Athlet, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Wong, Alex] US Council Athletes Hlth, Columbus, OH USA; [Wong, Alex] Michigan Arthroplasty Registry Collaborat Qual Ini, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Zernicke, Ronald F.] Univ Michigan, Dept Orthoped Surg, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Zernicke, Ronald F.] Univ Michigan, Dept Biomed Engn, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Olthof, Sigrid B. H.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473827600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Ferrandis, Jordi; Carril-Valdo, Jorge J.; Gil-Arias, Alexander; Claver-Rabaz, Fernando; Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Gonzalez-Rodenas, Joaquin								Combined effects of age, pitch size, playing position and tactical formation on training load in youth soccer players during small sided games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1501	1515		10.1177/17479541251333896			AUG 2025	2025	This study aimed to explore the combined effects of age, pitch size, playing position and tactical formation (TF) on locomotor and physiological load in youth soccer players during small-sided games (SSGs). A total of 32 sub-elite soccer players (U19 = 14; U16 = 18) engaged in various 7-a-side SSGs with distinct spatial dimensions (232 m2 vs 132 m2 per player), TF (1-2-3-1 vs 1-3-1-2) and specific playing positions (CD = central defender; M = midfielder; W = winger; FW = forward). Relative (m<middle dot>min-1) total distance (TD), high intensity running distance (HIRD), accelerations, decelerations, maximum speed (SpeedMAX), average speed (SpeedAVG), high metabolic load distance (HMLD) and relative heart rate (%HRMAX) were collected using WIMU PRO (TM) GPS devices (Hudl, USA). Generalized linear mixed models revealed that U19 players exhibited higher values of TD, SpeedMAX and SpeedAVG than U16 players (p < 0.05). SSGs conducted in larger pitch size registered higher values of TD, HIRD, HMLD, SpeedMAX, and SpeedAVG than SSGs with smaller pitch size (p < 0.05). Regarding playing position, M, W and FW had more TD, HIRD and SpeedAVG than CD, while W and FW showed higher values of HMLD, accelerations and decelerations distance than CD (p < 0.05). M exhibited the highest relative HRMAX in comparison to other playing positions (p < 0.05). Notably, no effects on locomotor and physiological load emerged concerning different TFs. In conclusion, soccer coaches should consider the effect of the age, pitch size and playing position on the training load when designing SSGs in youth players.		[Ferrandis, Jordi; Carril-Valdo, Jorge J.; Gil-Arias, Alexander; Claver-Rabaz, Fernando; Gonzalez-Rodenas, Joaquin] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Sport Sci Res Ctr, Fuenlabrada, Spain; [Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier] Pontif Univ Salamanca, Res Grp Planning & Assessment Training & Athlet Pe, Salamanca, Spain; [Gonzalez-Rodenas, Joaquin] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Camino Del Molino 5, Fuenlabrada 28942, Madrid, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473833300001	66	Article; Article		
J	Bransen, Lotte; Davis, Jesse								Measuring player pace of play in elite female association football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1541	1548		10.1177/17479541251334022			AUG 2025	2025	This research aims to understand how the differences in a football player's ability to cope with playing intensity may affect their chance of succeeding when transferring to a new league. Our hypothesis is that higher quality leagues exhibit a faster pace that affords players less time to control and play the ball. To measure this, we propose a novel pace-of-play metric that can be computed using match event data. It simply measures the amount of time a player takes to play a pass after gaining control of the ball either via receiving a pass or intercepting the ball. We assess the utility of our metric by analyzing five seasons of data about six top women's leagues. We make the following three findings. First, our metric is correlated with team strength as measured by Elo ratings. Second, our metric is correlated with the amount of playing time after an interleague transfer: players that exhibit a faster pace appear in a greater percentage of games in a new league. Third, as a measure of face validity, we show that our metric identified players who subsequently exhibited strong (e.g., prize winning) performance.		[Bransen, Lotte; Davis, Jesse] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Comp Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Bransen, Lotte; Davis, Jesse] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Leuven AI, Leuven, Belgium; [Bransen, Lotte] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Comp Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Bransen, Lotte] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Leuven AI, Leuven, Belgium								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473423300001	24	Article; Article		
J	Lupo, C.; Li Volsi, D.; Perazzetti, A.; Tessitore, A.; Melchiorri, G.; Ungureanu, A. N.								Match analysis in elite men's senior and youth water polo, classifying actions for margins of victory and advantage								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1673	1682		10.1177/17479541251333923			AUG 2025	2025	The present study aimed to compare technical and tactical factors of elite men's senior and youth water polo matches, and evaluate the same analyses in relation to margin of victory (MoV; according to the final match outcome) and advantage (MoA; according to the current match score). A notational analysis on teams was performed on 97 (50 from seniors, 47 from youth, level) European Championship matches, considering technical and tactical offensive indicators focused on goals scored and penalties during even, counterattack, power-play; and types of power-play outcomes. Results mainly reported that senior matches are characterised by a higher occurrence of power-play actions than youth ones, whereas the opposite picture emerged for the occurrence of penalties. In addition, major is the MoV and higher is the chance of scoring goals in counterattack actions for senior level. Moreover, for both levels, a larger MoV results in a greater likelihood of scoring goals and performing a reduced occurrence of negative outcomes (e.g., missed shots, lost ball possession, or offensive fouls) during power-play actions. Conversely, a higher MoA is associated with an increased percentage of goals scored by senior teams during counterattacks relative to total match goals, and a higher percentage of goals scored during power-play situations compared to total power-play outcomes. Consequently, this study offers valuable insights for coaches working with different team age levels and match phases, emphasising the distinct playing profiles for both senior and youth levels, as well as the classifications of actions based on MoV and MoA.		[Lupo, C.; Li Volsi, D.] Univ Turin, Sch Exercise & Sport Sci, Dept Med Sci, NeuroMuscularFunct Res Grp, Turin, Italy; [Perazzetti, A.; Tessitore, A.] Univ Rome Foro Ital, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Rome, Italy; [Melchiorri, G.] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Fac Med & Surg, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Dept Syst Med, Rome, Italy; [Melchiorri, G.] Don Gnocchi Fdn IRCCS, Milan, Italy; [Melchiorri, G.] Italian Swimming Federat, Rome, Italy; [Ungureanu, A. N.] Univ Turin, Sch Exercise & Sport Sci, Dept Life Sci & Syst Biol, NeuroMuscularFunct Res Grp, Turin, Italy; [Lupo, C.] Univ Turin, Sch Exercise & Sport Sci, Dept Med Sci, NeuroMuscularFunct Res Grp, Turin, Italy								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473431800001	25	Article; Article		
J	Yazbeck, Maha; Abdullah, Mohammad; Alhanouti, Sura; Vatne, Emaly; Hagen, Joshua; Allen, Theodore T.; Krening, Samantha								Perfect shot reveal: Machine learning analysis of goal-scoring strategies in soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1549	1563		10.1177/17479541251333941			AUG 2025	2025	Machine learning (ML) offers valuable applications in sports science by analyzing complex games and providing insights for coaching and tactics. This study explores differences in shot strategies between male and female soccer players during the 2019 Women's World Cup and 2022 Men's World Cup using ML-driven feature importance. The objective insights derived can guide training designs and tactical strategies, enhancing coaching decisions based on data. Results indicate that 'duration of pressure' during shooting is a key feature for both genders. However, for male players, 'position' and 'shot body part' are more influential. 'Position' refers to the player's location during the shot, while 'shot body part' indicates whether the shot was taken using the head, left foot, or right foot. In contrast, 'play pattern' and 'location' (both x and y coordinates of the shot's starting point) are more significant for female players, making the specific zone on the pitch to be significant too. 'Play pattern' describes shots taken as part of specific strategies (e.g. corner kick, free kick). These findings suggest different tactical approaches: for female athletes, coaches should emphasize creating shot opportunities near the goal and focus on play patterns during training. For male athletes, training could focus more on optimizing shot outcomes based on the body part used. This ML-driven analysis highlights the distinct factors influencing goal- scoring moments in male and female soccer, providing data-backed strategies to refine game tactics and training activities.		[Yazbeck, Maha; Abdullah, Mohammad; Alhanouti, Sura; Hagen, Joshua; Allen, Theodore T.; Krening, Samantha] Ohio State Univ, Coll Engn, Integrated Syst Engn, 1971 Neil Ave, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Vatne, Emaly] Ohio State Univ, Coll Educ & Human Ecol, Human Sci, Columbus, OH USA; [Yazbeck, Maha] Ohio State Univ, Coll Engn, Integrated Syst Engn, 1971 Neil Ave, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473436700001	47	Article; Article		
J	Jeon, Minsoo; Park, Jae Hyeon; Yoon, Jiwun; Yun, Hyo Jun								Development of complex exercise function test for Taekwondo Kyorugi athletes and establishment of criteria								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2131	2136		10.1177/17479541251336404			OCT 2025	2025	This study aims to develop a complex exercise function test for Taekwondo athletes and establish a reference standard. To develop the tool, a group of 12 Taekwondo and evaluation experts were selected. Additionally, to establish the validity and criteria of the developed tool, 40 male college Taekwondo athletes were selected as research participants. To assess the content validity of the complex motor function test, the content validity ratio was computed for data processing. Additionally, validity based on the measured data was verified using an independent sample t-test, a well-known method for comparing different groups. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed to establish reference points for each item for the developed Taekwondo complex motor function test. The optimal cut-point in ROC analysis was calculated using Area Under the Curve and You den's J index. Furthermore, accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity were calculated to verify the cut-point's validity. All statistical analyses were performed using Excel 2016 and IBM SPSS 25.0. The significance level was set to .05. Four items were developed as preliminary items for the Taekwondo complex motor function test. As a result of validating them, three items were finally developed: T1, T3, and T Plus. In addition, as reference points for the developed Taekwondo complex motor function test, T1 was set to 23.1 s, T3 to 55.3 s, and T Plus to 35.7 s.		[Jeon, Minsoo] Dankook Univ, Dept Int Sport, Yongin, Chungcheongnam, South Korea; [Park, Jae Hyeon; Yoon, Jiwun; Yun, Hyo Jun] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Ctr Sports Performance Analyt, Seoul, South Korea; [Yun, Hyo Jun] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Ctr Sports Performance Analyt, Seoul, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473422400001	12	Article; Article		
J	Diewald, Shelley N.; Thorpe, Robin T.; Martinez, Aaron; Neville, Jonathon; Cronin, John B.; Cross, Matt R.								Exploring perceptions of success in Olympic competitive and amateur street and park skateboarding and implications for training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				21	3			1839	1849		10.1177/17479541251333892			JUN 2026	2026	In competitive street and park skateboarding, judges determine success based on an 'overall impression' of each skater's performance, guided by World Skate criteria. Despite different competition formats, the judging criteria for both street and park disciplines are the same, developed on the values, principles, and virtues held within the skateboarding community. Given skating's recent Olympic debut, understanding what specifically constitutes success would seem paramount for skaters to target progression in the sport. To assess if the skateboarding community understands and aligns on judging competitive success criteria, and train accordingly, 33 skaters of various skill levels and disciplines completed a 35-question online survey. Participants included elite (i.e., sponsored, n = 4), regional (New Zealand) amateur (n = 10), and recreational (n = 19) skaters. A mixed-methods, cross-sectional approach revealed that community perspectives on competitive and recreational performance generally aligned with World Skate judging criteria, emphasizing 'flow' and 'style'. Competitive skaters appeared to adjust their training accordingly, however, views on the scale and order of importance of judging criteria vary by involvement, skill level, and discipline, suggesting that an overall impression of skateboarding performance is highly individualistic and ambiguous. This likely leaves coaches and athletes speculating about what constitutes a winning performance and compromises targeted training. The survey's findings, though limited in their scope, emphasize the need for clarity in subjective judging criteria and application. Future research should implement objective explorations of street and park competitive skateboarding performances, respectively.		[Diewald, Shelley N.; Neville, Jonathon; Cronin, John B.; Cross, Matt R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, AUT Millennium, Auckland, New Zealand; [Thorpe, Robin T.; Martinez, Aaron] Red Bull Athlete Performance Ctr Angeles, Santa Monica, CA USA; [Thorpe, Robin T.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Thorpe, Robin T.] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth Solut, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Cronin, John B.] Athlete Training & Hlth, Houston, TX USA; [Diewald, Shelley N.] 17 Antares Pl, Rosedale 0630, Auckland, New Zealand								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473433200001	20	Article; Article		
J	Mihalyi, Balazs; Biczok, Gergely; Toka, Laszlo								All about momentum: Investigating high-pressure situations in the NBA through scoring probability								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1584	1597		10.1177/17479541251333956			AUG 2025	2025	One of the defining characteristics of real basketball stars, and even great role players, is how well they perform under immense mental pressure. This paper presents a method to identify high-pressure situations during a basketball game through shooting success. Our analysis incorporates a novel feature set that emphasizes both player- and team-level momentum, including scoring streaks. Additionally, we redefine player roles using a clustering-based approach with deep learning techniques, allowing for a more nuanced evaluation of performance under pressure. Using six seasons of NBA data, we find that shotmaking is mainly impacted by the so-called momentum, i.e., when a team outscores their opponent significantly over a short period of time.		[Mihalyi, Balazs; Biczok, Gergely; Toka, Laszlo] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Budapest, Hungary; [Biczok, Gergely] HUN REN BME Informat Syst Res Grp, Bugapest, Hungary; [Toka, Laszlo] HUN REN BME Cloud Applicat Res Grp, Budapest, Hungary; [Mihalyi, Balazs] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Budapest, Hungary								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473433600001	28	Article; Article		
J	Goldschmied, Nadav; Lidor, Ronnie; Raphaeli, Mike								Win three-sets sports: Game patterns, gender comparisons, and comeback analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1573	1581		10.1177/17479541251333924			AUG 2025	2025	We conducted a broad longitudinal survey of three sports in which the winner must win three sets to prevail: American collegiate volleyball, international table tennis, and international men's tennis (Grand Slams and Davis Cup competitions). We found a uniform game pattern across these sports whereupon they were distinctly one-sided in their progression. This pattern persisted when we performed a more granular analysis in men's tennis studying Grand Slam tournaments separately and this slanted pattern held even within round progression. Only the ability to mount a comeback differed across sports and genders. We postulate that since the comeback narrative has a general positive appeal, greater crowds may propel a resurgent entity to win. We also conclude that scoring rules determine greatly how competitive the sport is.		[Goldschmied, Nadav] Univ San Diego, Dept Psychol Sci, 5998 Alcala Pk,Serra Tekakwitha Hall 164, San Diego, CA 92110 USA; [Lidor, Ronnie] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Coll Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Netanya, Israel; [Raphaeli, Mike] Nanning Vocat & Tech Univ, English Dept, Nanning, Peoples R China; [Goldschmied, Nadav] Univ San Diego, Dept Psychol Sci, 5998 Alcala Pk,Serra Tekakwitha Hall 164, San Diego, CA 92110 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001473427800001	33	Article; Article		
J	Secchi, Leonardo Luiz Barretti; Camargo, Paula Rezende; Alves, Lais Emanuelle Meira; Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis								Shoulder pain occurrence in asymptomatic overhead athletes: a prospective cohort study with a 6-month follow-up								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				156	164		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.04.003			MAY 2025	2025	Purpose: To identify interactions among variables of the upper limbs, trunk, and hip joint associated with shoulder pain occurrence in asymptomatic overhead athletes. Design: prospective cohort study. Setting: Sports club facilities. Participants: Ninety-five adult asymptomatic overhead athletes from national first division teams, both sexes. Main outcomes measures: Isometric strength of the shoulder ER muscles, serratus anterior, lower trapezius and hip abductors, HipSIT, shoulder internal rotation (IR) range of motion (ROM), low flexion test, closed kinetic chain upper extremity stability test (CKCUEST), seat medicine ball test (SMB-T), upper seat shot put test (USSP-T), upper quarter Y balance test [UQYBT] and leg lateral reach test (LLRT). Shoulder pain occurrence was registered during a 6-month follow-up. Results: The model correctly classified 77.4 % of the athletes who did not develop shoulder pain and 100.0 % of those who developed shoulder pain. The accuracy was 89 % (95 %CI:83 %,96 %). Athletes with UQYBT score under 88.5 %, and isometric strength of the shoulder ER muscles above 0.780 N/kg did not develop shoulder pain (RR:0.02, 95 %CI:0.001,0.44). Athletes with UQYBT score above 88.5 % and USSP-T performance above 3.175m developed shoulder pain (RR:14.09, 95 %CI: 3.27,60.56). Conclusion: Shoulder pain occurrence in overhead athletes was associated with interactions among UQYBT, isometric strength of the shoulder ER muscles, and USSP-T.		[Secchi, Leonardo Luiz Barretti; Camargo, Paula Rezende] Univ Fed Sao Carlos UFSCar, Postgrad Program Phys Therapy, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Camargo, Paula Rezende] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Phys Therapy Dept, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Alves, Lais Emanuelle Meira; Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Minas Gerais UFMG, Phys Therapy Dept, Postgrad Program Rehabil Sci, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Minas Gerais UFMG, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Phys Therapy Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Terapia Ocupac, Dept Fisioterapia, Ave Presidente Antonio Carlos 6627,Campus Pampulh, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001479699800001	51	Article; Article		
J	Springham, Matthew; Singh, Nav; Stewart, Perry; Jones, Ian; Norton-Sherwood, Charlie; May, Dominic; Salter, Jamie; Strudwick, Anthony J.; Shaw, Joseph W.								The moderating effects of speed, strength and endurance capacities on match induced neuromuscular fatigue in U-18 English premier league academy football players: A hypothesis-generating case report								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1717	1725		10.1177/17479541251333927			AUG 2025	2025	Purpose: To identify new hypotheses relating to the moderating effects of speed, strength and endurance capacities on match-induced neuromuscular fatigue. Methods 14 U-18 outfield players from one EPL academy team completed countermovement jump (CMJ) and isometric adductor (IADS) and posterior chain (IPCS) strength tests one day before match day (MD) (i.e., MD-1) and on MD + 2 around 8 competitive games. Explosive strength (CMJ), reactive strength (30 cm drop jump (DJ)), speed (10 m and 30 m), maximal strength (isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP)) and endurance (1 km Time Trial (TT)) were measured at 4 time points across the season. Relationships between the average match induced change to each NMF measure and the average of each physical capacity measure were examined using Pearson's R (r) (when normally distributed) or Spearman's rank (rho) (when not normally distributed) correlation coefficients. Results: Moderate positive relationships were observed between CMJ-JH change (delta) and DJ-RSI (rho = 0.36; p = 0.16) and IMPT (r = 0.46; p = 0.06). Small negative relationships were observed between IADS-PF delta and 10 m speed (rho = 0.27; p = 0.29), 30 m speed (r = 0.22; p = 0.41), CMJ-JH (rho = 0.29; p = 0.26) and DJ-RSI (rho = 0.36; p = 0.16), and between IPCS-PF delta and 10 m speed (rho = 0.20; p = 0.45) and 1kmTT (rho = 0.26; p = 0.33). Conclusions: These results generate important hypotheses relating to the potential mitigating effects that reactive strength, maximal strength and endurance capacities might exert on match induced NMF in U-18 academy football players. These relationships warrant further investigation in larger research designs spanning both older and younger player age groups (i.e., across other youth development and professional development phase players) and competition levels (i.e., elite and sub-elite players).		[Springham, Matthew; Shaw, Joseph W.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, Twickenham, England; [Springham, Matthew; Singh, Nav; Stewart, Perry; Jones, Ian; Norton-Sherwood, Charlie] Arsenal Football Club, Arsenal Performance & Res Team, London, England; [May, Dominic] Brighton & Hove Alb Football Club, Brighton, England; [Salter, Jamie] York St John Univ, Sch Sport, York, England; [Strudwick, Anthony J.] West Bromwich Alb Football Club, Sport Sci Dept, West Midlands, England; [Springham, Matthew] Arsenal Football Club, Arsenal Performance & Res Team, London, England; [Springham, Matthew] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, Off R5, Fac Sport, Twickenham, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001472734300001	32	Article; Article		
J	Gosney, Sienna; Macdonald, Luke; Parsonage, Joanna; Worsey, Matthew; Denny, April; Minahan, Clare								The interplay between anthropometric profile, surfboard dimensions, and surfboard design and selection processes in competitive female and male surfers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2118	2130		10.1177/17479541251333945			OCT 2025	2025	Surfboards are a critical component of surfing performance, yet the relationship between a surfer's anthropometric profile and their surfboard dimensions, as well as the factors influencing surfers' decision-making around surfboard design and selection within competition, remains unexplored. Forty-two competitive surfers participated in this study. Of the forty-two surfers, the anthropometric profile of twenty-eight females (n = 12) and males (n = 16) was determined (i.e., height, body mass, arm span, body composition), while thirty-one females (n = 15) and males (n = 16) completed a survey to determine their decision-making towards surfboard design and selection within competition. The results demonstrated fewer significant correlations between the anthropometric profiles and surfboard dimensions of female surfers than male surfers and the anthropometric profiles of female surfers explained less variance in their surfboard dimensions compared to male surfers. Fat mass measures contributed more to the variance in female surfers' surfboard dimensions, whereas lean mass measures contributed more to the variance for male surfers. Survey results also determined that female surfers rated the factors informing their decision-making around surfboard design and selection as less influential compared to male surfers. These findings highlight notable sex-related differences in the relationship between surfers' anthropometric profile and their competition surfboards, as well as their decision-making processes. Increased exposure and experimentation with surfboard design could benefit female surfers and advance their performance in the sport alongside their male counterparts.		[Gosney, Sienna; Parsonage, Joanna; Denny, April; Minahan, Clare] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Griffith Sports Sci, Gold Coast, Australia; [Gosney, Sienna; Macdonald, Luke; Denny, April] Surfing Australia High Performance Ctr, High Performance Program, Casuarina, Australia; [Gosney, Sienna; Denny, April] Queensland Acad Sport, Sport Performance Innovat & Knowledge Excellence S, Nathan, Australia; [Worsey, Matthew] Griffith Univ, Australian Ctr Precis Hlth & Technol, Gold Coast, Australia; [Minahan, Clare] Australian Inst Sport, Female Performance & Hlth Initiat, Canberra, Australia; [Gosney, Sienna] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Griffith Sports Sci, Gold Coast, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001472759800001	51	Article; Article		
J	Miralles, Ricardo; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Guzman, Jose F.; Ramon-Llin, Jesus								Effects of two consecutive matches on the physical demand of elite padel players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2093	2101		10.1177/17479541251333952			OCT 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to analyse external load variables recorded with inertial devices in elite padel players, comparing results between two matches played consecutively on the same day. A total of 83 male players participated in 23 semifinal and final matches of the professional circuit. Key metrics such as distance travelled, accelerations and decelerations per hour, maximum speeds, and acceleration profiles were recorded. Findings indicated that semifinal matches were more demanding than final matches, with higher values in accelerations, decelerations, and maximum speeds. Notably, 80% of accelerations and decelerations occurred within 1 to 2 meters. Statistical significance was set at rho <= 0.05, revealing that acceleration and deceleration counts were significantly higher in the first match of the day (p = 0.04; r = 0.23). These results provide insights into the external load experienced by players, allowing for more precise monitoring and optimization of training and recovery strategies. The study underscores the importance of accounting for match load in training regimens, particularly when multiple matches are scheduled on the same day, to enhance player performance and reduce fatigue-related decline.		[Miralles, Ricardo; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Guzman, Jose F.] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Valencia, Spain; [Ramon-Llin, Jesus] Univ Valencia, Dept Teaching Mus Visual & Corporal Express, Valencia, Spain; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Valencia, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001472746400001	46	Article; Article		
J	Wing, Christopher; Hart, Nicolas H.; Fu, Shih Ching; Nosaka, Kazunori; Ma'ayah, Fadi								The use of K-means clustering for the organisation of training groups in Australian football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1642	1650		10.1177/17479541251333925			AUG 2025	2025	This study investigated the potential use of k-means clustering for organising training groups in Australian Football (AF) based upon match performance data. Global positioning system (e.g., distance per minute) and technical action (e.g., kicks) data were collected on 38 AF players from 22 matches during the 2021 season. Each player was assigned their season average for all metrics, as well as their primary playing position (the position they occupied the most during the season). Following the application of the elbow method, the data was grouped into four clusters; cluster one could be defined as the low technical action players, cluster two as the low physical output players, cluster three as the high technical action players, and cluster four as the high physical output players. The results of the k-means clustering revealed that each group had unique match performance characteristics compared to each other. The clustering revealed that the majority of players within each cluster shared common playing positions, similar to traditional AF groupings. However, it was also able to highlight that some players were grouped away from their traditional positions based upon their match performance data, indicating that they may require an alternative training stimulus to successfully prepare for competitive matches. Training recommendations for each of the four groups are provided. The study indicated that k-means clustering could provide a useful additional tool for the organisation of training groups within AF populations, and potentially for other similar team sports.		[Wing, Christopher; Hart, Nicolas H.; Nosaka, Kazunori] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Hart, Nicolas H.] Univ Technol Sydney UTS, INSIGHT Res Inst, Human Performance Res Ctr, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Hart, Nicolas H.] Flinders Univ S Australia, Caring Futures Inst, Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Hart, Nicolas H.] Queensland Univ Technol QUT, Fac Hlth, Ctr Healthcare Transformat, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Hart, Nicolas H.] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Inst Hlth Res, Perth, WA, Australia; [Fu, Shih Ching] Curtin Univ, Sch Elect Engn Comp & Math Sci, Bentley, WA, Australia; [Ma'ayah, Fadi] Curtin Univ, Sch Educ, Bentley, WA, Australia; [Wing, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001472758400001	44	Article; Article		
J	Chia, Lionel; Pappas, Evangelos								Advanced applications of backward design: Crafting holistic and athlete-centered injury rehabilitation plans								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				152	155		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.04.006			MAY 2025	2025	There remains a pressing need to enhance sports rehabilitation practices due to several ongoing challenges like increasing re-injury rates. By encouraging practitioners to begin with the end in mind, a backward design approach can help create more comprehensive and sport-specific rehabilitation programs that better support athletes' return-to-sport outcomes. However, there is a lack of clear and actionable guidance for applying backward design approaches in more advanced scenarios like when rehabilitating complex injuries in highly dynamic and unpredictable sporting contexts. Through three highly prevalent use cases, this article will address this critical gap by highlighting the modularity of backward design approaches, and offer practical and step-bystep strategies for practitioners looking for solutions in these contexts.		[Chia, Lionel] Cleveland Guardians Baseball Co, Cleveland, OH 44115 USA; [Chia, Lionel; Pappas, Evangelos] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Pappas, Evangelos] RMIT Univ, Sch Hlth & Biomed Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Chia, Lionel] Cleveland Guardians Baseball Co, Cleveland, OH 44115 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001478471200001	11	Article; Article		
J	Gross, Benjamin D.; Yendluri, Avanish; Koehne, Niklas H.; Iyer, Amogh I.; Patel, Akshar V.; Cagle, Paul J.; Parisien, Robert L.								The most cited publications on snowboarding-related head injuries, concussions, and injury distribution								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	5			398	405		10.1080/00913847.2025.2491991			SEP 3 2025	2025	ObjectivesThe purpose of this study was to identify the 50 most-cited publications relating to snowboarding and conduct a bibliometric analysis of the identified studies.MethodsClarivate Analytics Web of Science database was queried to identify all publication titles, abstracts, and keywords related to snowboarding. The resulting articles were sorted by total number of citations. Titles and abstracts were included based on their relevance to snowboarding. Once the 50 most cited articles were identified, each article was further analyzed to obtain author name, publication year, country of origin, journal name, article type, research topic, competition level, total number of citations, and the level of evidence. Citation density (total number of citations/years since publication) was calculated and recorded for each of the most-cited studies.ResultsThe 50 most-cited articles were cited 4,123 times with an average of 82.5 citations per article. The most cited article was cited 212 times. The majority of articles came from 2 different countries, with the United States and Canada contributing 18 and 10 articles, respectively. The American Journal of Sports Medicine published the most articles (n = 11). The most studied topic was injury distribution (n = 25) followed by head injuries (n = 8). Recreational snowboarding was the most studied level of competition (n = 43).ConclusionsThe 50 most-cited articles related to snowboarding are predominantly cohort and review studies from the United States and Canada, focusing on recreational athletes. These articles primarily detail the total anatomic distribution of snowboard-related injuries, particularly head injuries and concussions.		[Gross, Benjamin D.; Yendluri, Avanish; Koehne, Niklas H.; Cagle, Paul J.; Parisien, Robert L.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY 10029 USA; [Iyer, Amogh I.; Patel, Akshar V.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Columbus, OH USA; [Gross, Benjamin D.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY 10029 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001470778100001	41	Article; Article		
J	Clark, Boris; Macdermid, Paul W.								VLa<sub>max</sub> Correlates Strongly With Glycolytic Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			660	667		10.1080/02701367.2025.2481176			OCT 2 2025	2025	${\dot{\rm\ V}}L{a_{\max }}$ V(center dot)Lamax estimates an athlete's maximal-glycolytic rate. This study aimed to determine the relationships between the ${\dot{\rm\ V}}L{a_{\max }}$ V(center dot)Lamax and cycle ergometry efforts with a high-glycolytic energy contribution and the influence of ${\dot{\rm\ V}}L{a_{\max }}$ V(center dot)Lamax and ${\mathop {VO}\nolimits _{{\rm{2 max}}}}$VO2max on respiratory compensation point. Eleven national-international endurance cyclists (${\mathop {VO}\nolimits _{{\rm{2 max}}}}$VO2max = 70.7 +/- 5.9 ml<middle dot>kg-1<middle dot>min-1) completed a 15-s isokinetic-test with pre- and postlactate measurements to determine ${\dot{\rm\ V}}L{a_{\max }}$ V(center dot)Lamax, a 1-min maximal effort, and a ramp test to exhaustion in a single test session. The main findings showed strong relationships between ${\dot{\rm\ V}}L{a_{\max }}$ V(center dot)Lamax and the mean absolute (r = 0.83, p = .002) and relative (r = 0.88, p = .0004) power during the lactic interval of the 15-s isokinetic-test. This relationship weakened when comparing ${\dot{\rm\ V}}L{a_{\max }}$ V(center dot)Lamax with mean absolute (r = 0.52, p = .098) and relative (r = 0.29, p = .393) power during a 1-min maximal effort. Combining the ${\dot{\rm\ V}}L{a_{\max }}$ V(center dot)Lamax and ${\dot{\rm\ V}}{{\rm{O}}_{2\max }}$ V(center dot)O2max data through multiple regression resulted in a positive effect on the estimation of respiratory compensation point. It was concluded that the ${\dot{\rm\ V}}L{a_{\max }}$ V(center dot)Lamax is a relevant indicator of maximal glycolytic rate. However, this metric currently lacks scientific validation as an accurate estimate of glycolytic rate and provides minimal extra information over using the power output from the isokinetic test alone. Practitioners may simply measure power over glycolytically demanding efforts to understand the maximal glycolytic rate of their athletes.		[Clark, Boris] Cycling New Zealand, Cambridge, New Zealand; [Macdermid, Paul W.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Private Bag 11-222, Palmerston North 4474, New Zealand; [Macdermid, Paul W.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Private Bag 11-222, Palmerston North 4474, New Zealand								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001471425600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Kloecker, Julian Alexander; Daumann, Frank								For A Brighter Tomorrow-A Theoretical and Empirical Analysis of Athletes' International Migration								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	6			647	667		10.1177/15270025251326248			AUG 2025	2025	The migration of professional athletes increased in volume and composition in the recent decades. We use a rational choice model to explain migration in certain sports and test it by applying the Poisson pseudo maximum likelihood estimator and the negative binomial pseudo maximum likelihood estimator. We can show that diaspora significantly impel the migration of athletes, while the GDP per capita is a significant pulling factor for athletics, but not for tennis and figure skaters. Considering the differences between nation's success in international competition, we find evidence for positive selection for athletes. With this study, we notably contribute to migration economics in the field of sport by analyzing migration in the sports of athletics, tennis, and figure skating for the first time.		[Kloecker, Julian Alexander; Daumann, Frank] Friedrich Schiller Univ Jena, Chair Sports Econ & Hlth Econ, Seidelstr 20, D-07749 Jena, Germany; [Kloecker, Julian Alexander] Friedrich Schiller Univ Jena, Chair Sports Econ & Hlth Econ, Seidelstr 20, D-07749 Jena, Germany								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001469724700001	41	Article; Article		
J	Peiris, Hashan; Dona, Nirodha Epasinghege; Swartz, Tim B.								Analysis of the impact of unforced errors in tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1151	1161		10.1177/17479541251333943			JUN 2025	2025	This paper investigates unforced errors in tennis which is facilitated by a rich dataset. Descriptive analyses are carried out which studies the distribution of unforced error rates across professional tennis players, the identification of players with high and low rates, the relationship between rates and match winning percentage, the relationship between rates and aggressiveness (via hitting winners), the relationship between rates and touch number, and the study of rates versus time. Methods are then developed to assess the impact of unforced errors which are applicable to any racquet sport. We demonstrate the approach in the context of professional tennis with an investigation of the longstanding rivalry between Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. The value of the approach is that we can provide estimates of the points lost, games lost, sets lost and matches lost due to unforced errors. The methods are based on a bootstrapping procedure which also yields standard errors for the estimates. The approach is valuable in terms of player evaluation, and can also be used for training purposes where it is possible to assess the quantification of improvement based on fewer unforced errors.		[Peiris, Hashan; Swartz, Tim B.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Stat & Actuarial Sci, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Dona, Nirodha Epasinghege] BC Hlth, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Swartz, Tim B.] Simon Fraser Univ, Burnaby, BC, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001467787500001	18	Article; Article		
J	Buechner, Bryan; Blank, Ashley Stadler; Escoe, Brianna; Blaney, Isaac								Expertise matters: why consumers are less likely to follow AI recommendations in sports betting								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	4			731	747		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2024-0267			DEC 2 2025	2025	PurposeThe legal sports betting market in the United States has rapidly grown into a multi-billion-dollar industry. As a result, a secondary industry for sports betting recommendations has emerged. Because sports betting is widely considered as skill-based gambling, consumers may turn to experts for recommendations. While many sports betting recommendations come from humans, technological advances have enabled recommendations from artificial intelligence (AI). Therefore, we investigate how an AI versus human recommendation source affects consumer perceptions of expertise and subsequent likelihood to follow the sports betting recommendation.Design/methodology/approachWe conducted three lab experiments, with three distinct undergraduate samples. We manipulated the recommendation source as either AI or human. We examined the impact of recommendation sources on consumer perceptions of expertise and subsequent likelihood to follow the sports betting recommendation via ANOVA, ANCOVA and the PROCESS macro. The collection of human data was performed according to the ethics standards established by the Declaration of Helsinki 2013 and was approved by the local Institutional Review Board for Human Subjects at the authors' respective institutions. All participants gave informed consent prior to completing any experiment.FindingsAcross all lab experiments, we found that an AI (vs human) recommendation source decreased consumer perceptions of expertise and subsequent likelihood to follow the sports betting recommendation.Originality/valueAs the legal sports betting market continues to grow, both firms and consumers are investing in sports betting recommendations-including recommendations from AI. However, we are not aware of any research that examines sports betting recommendations from AI. We found that an AI (vs human) recommendation source decreased consumer perceptions of expertise and subsequent likelihood to follow the sports betting recommendation.		[Buechner, Bryan; Blank, Ashley Stadler; Blaney, Isaac] Xavier Univ, Dept Mkt, Williams Coll Business, Cincinnati, OH 45207 USA; [Escoe, Brianna] Louisiana State Univ, Dept Mkt, E J Ourso Coll Business, Baton Rouge, LA USA; [Buechner, Bryan] Xavier Univ, Dept Mkt, Williams Coll Business, Cincinnati, OH 45207 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001464674000001	90	Article; Article		
J	Gerke, Anna; Le Dean, Raphael; Bawack, Ransome								Consumer adoption of artificially intelligence-supported devices for sports services: an empirical validation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	4			694	712		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2024-0151			DEC 2 2025	2025	PurposeThis study empirically tests the Artificially Intelligent Device Use Acceptance Model in the context of sports services.Design/methodology/approachThe model was tested using partial least squares structural equation modeling on data from 105 users.FindingsWe found that emotions towards artificially intelligence (AI)-supported devices predict the intention to use these devices but not objection behavior. Consumers' appraisal of AI anthropomorphism does not significantly impact performance or effort expectancies.Research limitations/implicationsThe main limitation is the relatively small sample size. The tested model is partially validated, and we identify new variables to extend the model. We contribute to the controversial literature on using AI to replace human agents in service delivery.Practical implicationsThis research aids organizations in refining their investment and diffusion strategies for AI-supported devices.Originality/valueThese findings extend the literature by validating an AI-specific theoretical model for sports services, providing insights for enhancing AI-supported device adoption strategies.		[Gerke, Anna] Audencia Business Sch, Entrepreneurship Strategy & Innovat, Nantes, France; [Gerke, Anna] La Trobe Univ, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Gerke, Anna] Univ Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand; [Gerke, Anna] Univ Bayreuth, Bayreuth, Germany; [Le Dean, Raphael] EASM, Esport Innovat & Technol, Belfast, North Ireland; [Le Dean, Raphael] EURAM, Managing Sport SIG, Florence, Italy; [Le Dean, Raphael] NXP Semicond Trust Provisioning, R&D Dept, Eindhoven, Netherlands; [Gerke, Anna] Audencia Business Sch, Entrepreneurship Strategy & Innovat, Nantes, France								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001465936900001	70	Article; Article		
J	Bartlett, Jonathan D.; Murray, Andrew								An assessment of anthropometric and physical profiles of highly trained youth male and female basketball athletes: Implications for talent selection and development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1037	1046		10.1177/17479541251333885			JUN 2025	2025	The study assessed the physical and anthropometric profiles of highly trained male and female youth basketball athletes from around the world to inform talent selection and development processes. 727 under-18 athletes (Male: N = 424; Female: N = 304) from Africa, Asia, Americas, and Europe were tested for height, mass, wingspan, hand length and hand width, standing reach, speed, agility, standing vertical jump and maximal vertical jump. One-way ANOVAs determined regional differences in all anthropometric and physical assessments and an independent t-test was conducted between positions. Results present a global normative view of highly trained male and female youth basketball anthropometric and physical attributes. Specifically, gender specific differences were apparent for all anthropometric and physical assessments, population specific differences existed in both the male and female cohorts, and there were clear positional differences showing frontcourt players to be bigger, slower, less agile, and less powerful (e.g., lower jump performance). Collectively, these data provide useful profiling and benchmark information that can be utilized for talent selection and development decision making processes.		[Bartlett, Jonathan D.; Murray, Andrew] Natl Basketball Assoc NBA, 645 5th Ave, New York, NY 10022 USA; [Bartlett, Jonathan D.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Murray, Andrew] Natl Basketball Assoc NBA, 645 5th Ave, New York, NY 10022 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001467803300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Antonopoulos, Konstantinos; Skouras, Apostolos Z.; Melissaridou, Dimitra E.; Papagiannis, Georgios, I; Triantafyllou, Athanasios; Antonakis-Karamintzas, Dimitrios; Papitsi, Flora; Tsolakis, Charilaos; Savvidou, Olga; Papagelopoulos, Panayiotis J.; Koulouvaris, Panagiotis								Greek translation and cross-cultural adaptation of the Oslo Sports Trauma Research Center Questionnaires on overuse injuries and health problems								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1005	1013		10.1177/17479541251333938			JUN 2025	2025	Purpose: This study aimed to cross-culturally adapt the second version of the Oslo Sports Trauma Research Center Questionnaires on Overuse Injuries (OSTRC-O2) and Health Problems (OSTRC-H2) into Greek. Materials and Methods: The questionnaires were translated using the back-translation method in accordance with international guidelines. The OSTRC-O2 was administered to 56 female volleyball players, focusing on shoulder injuries, while the OSTRC-H2 was delivered to 52 adolescent and young adult male and female volleyball and soccer players. Validity was assessed through content validity (Content Validity Index - CVI), face validity (using additional questions on comprehensibility, difficulty, relevance, and completeness), and concurrent validity (correlations between the OSTRC-O2 severity score and the numeric pain rating scale [NPRS], as well as between the OSTRC-H2 severity score with days of time loss [DL] and NPRS). Reliability was evaluated using internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha) and the test-retest method (intraclass correlation coefficient - ICC). The study was conducted for a two-week period and the test-retest was performed with a two-day interval. Results: Twenty-three athletes (41%) reported shoulder problems using the OSTRC-O2, while 28 injury events and 5 cases of illness were reported with the OSTRC-H2. Face and content validity were excellent (CVI = 0.925 and 0.975 for OSTRC-O2 and OSTRC-H2). A strong correlation was observed between the OSTRC-O2 severity score and the NPRS (rho = 0.819, p < 0.001), while the OSTRC-H2 severity score demonstrated significant correlations with both the NPRS (rho = 0.72, p < 0.001) and days of time loss (rho = 0.625, p < 0.001). Both questionnaires demonstrated excellent reliability and internal consistency, with the OSTRC-O2 showing an ICC of 0.90 (95% CI: 0.82-0.94) and Cronbach's alpha of 0.84, and the OSTRC-H2 showing an ICC of 0.93 (95% CI: 0.89-0.97) and Cronbach's alpha of 0.93. Conclusions: The Greek versions of the OSTRC questionnaires are valid and reliable tools for injury surveillance among Greek volleyball and soccer players.		[Antonopoulos, Konstantinos; Skouras, Apostolos Z.; Melissaridou, Dimitra E.; Papagiannis, Georgios, I; Triantafyllou, Athanasios; Antonakis-Karamintzas, Dimitrios; Papitsi, Flora; Tsolakis, Charilaos; Savvidou, Olga; Papagelopoulos, Panayiotis J.; Koulouvaris, Panagiotis] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg 1, Sports Excellence, Athens 12462, Greece; [Papagiannis, Georgios, I; Triantafyllou, Athanasios] Univ Peloponnese, Physiotherapy Dept, Biomech Lab, Sparta, Greece; [Tsolakis, Charilaos] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Sports Performance Lab, Athens, Greece; [Skouras, Apostolos Z.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg 1, Sports Excellence, Athens 12462, Greece								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001468634600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Nieto, Moises Marquina; Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos; Nieto-Acevedo, Raul; de la Rubia, Alfonso								Exploring the home advantage and home winning effect in handball: Differences between sexes and team level								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1617	1625		10.1177/17479541251333936			AUG 2025	2025	The aim of the study was to analyse and compare the extent of home advantage (HA) and home winning percentage (HW) by sex and team classification in Spanish First Division handball leagues. Results data were collected from the first divisions of the Spanish men's and women's handball leagues for 10 seasons (2013-2024), excluding the season by COVID19. For each team in each season, the variables of HA (%) determined as (total home points / total points) * 100 and HW (%) calculated as (total home wins / total home games) * 100 were found. In addition, teams were divided into high (HLT), medium (MLT) and low (LLT) level teams based on the percentage of games won in each season using cluster analysis. Males had higher HA values than females (p < 0.05), however, there was no difference in HW (p > 0.05). In addition, males had higher HA values than females separately in MLT and LLT (p < 0.05) and higher HW values only in the LLT (p < 0.001). LLT had higher HA than MLT and HLT (p < 0.001), while HLT had higher HW than MLT and LLT (p < 0.001). Thus there are differences in HA and HW by sex and team level. Male teams experienced greater HA and HW effects, suggesting that female teams have a more even distribution of wins in home and away games. In addition, LLT seem to rely more on home games to achieve wins, while HLT seem to be more successful both at home and away.		[Nieto, Moises Marquina; Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos; de la Rubia, Alfonso] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Deporte & Entrenamiento Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Nieto-Acevedo, Raul] Univ Alfonso X el Sabio, Fac Sports Sci, Villanueva De La Canada, Spain; [Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Deporte & Entrenamiento Res Grp, Madrid, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001468550300001	61	Article; Article		
J	Jennings, Jacob; Dower, Hannah; Palmer, Jodie; Kingsley, Michael								Activity demands and technical proficiency within the female Australian Rules Football talent pathway								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1634	1641		10.1177/17479541251333951			AUG 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to compare activity and technical demands of match-play at various levels of competition in female elite-junior Australian Football talent pathways. A retrospective, observational design was used. Global positioning system and technical involvement data were collected from 18 Under 19 Coates Talent League (CTL: n = 684), 10 Under 16 National Championships (U16NC: n = 257) and eight Under 18 National Championships (U18NC: n = 171) teams during 120 matches in the 2023 playing season. Total distance (TD) is lower at U16NC level than CTL and U18NC competitions (small effects). Relative distance (RD) and high-speed running (HSR) distance were different with age, and playing level, with CTL and U16NC demands lower than U18NC (small-moderate effects). The total number of technical involvements in U16NC and U18NC were comparable, but generally higher than CTL. Disposal efficiency was the best technical differentiator between playing levels, with both CTL and U16NC (small effects) being significantly lower than U18NC competition. Findings suggest that demands differ as players progress through the talent pathway. The increase in technical efficiency is likely a contributor to the increase in activity demands. Coaches at all levels of the female talent pathway should be aware of match-play demands to effectively prepare players for current and future competition. Technical efficiency seems to be a key differentiator for higher level selection, particularly the ability to dispose of the football effectively. This should be a coaching priority within the talent pathway.		[Jennings, Jacob; Kingsley, Michael] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Rural Hlth Sch, Holsworth Res Initiat, Bendigo, Vic, Australia; [Jennings, Jacob] Brisbane Broncos, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Dower, Hannah] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Australia; [Palmer, Jodie] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Australia; [Kingsley, Michael] Univ Auckland, Fac Sci, Dept Exercise Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Jennings, Jacob] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Rural Hlth Sch, Bendigo, Vic 3550, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001467825800001	18	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Yao; Cheng, Liping; Xu, Jianhua; Wang, Liang; Cheng, Wenbing								Exploring the training philosophy and practical strategies of Chen Wenbing, the gold medal coach of Chinese weightlifting								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1693	1706		10.1177/17479541251333891			AUG 2025	2025	Summarizing the training concepts of elite coaches is an effective means to enrich sports training theory and enhance the coaching abilities of young coaches. Coach Chen Wenbing is one of the elite representatives in the international weightlifting community, with brilliant coaching achievements. This article uses expert interview and literature review methods to analyze Coach Chen Wenbing's training concepts and coaching strategies. The primary conclusions are as follows: (1) Drawing on the scientific control theory of strength training, the stationary control training theory of technical movements, and the personalized training theory, an overall training framework is constructed with the core concept of "athlete-centered". (2) The training feedback mechanism is developed based on modern monitoring tools, athletes' subjective feedback, and coaches' experiential input. (3) Constructing the training situation according to the situation during the competition. (4) Establish a robust disciplinary framework to monitor the training status of athletes. (5) Pay attention to the moral education of athletes in order to assist them in developing correct values and good character.		[Liu, Yao] Wuxi Taihu Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Wuxi, Peoples R China; [Cheng, Liping; Xu, Jianhua; Wang, Liang; Cheng, Wenbing] Fujian Normal Univ, Sch Sport Sci, 18 Wulong Jiangzhong Ave, Fuzhou, Peoples R China; [Cheng, Liping] Fujian Normal Univ, Sch Sport Sci, 18 Wulong Jiangzhong Ave, Fuzhou, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001467795100001	26	Article; Article		
J	Alzate, Samuel Jose Octavio Gaviria; Higuita, Diego Alejandro; Jaramillo, Andres Felipe; Machado, Jorge Andres								Impact of a Tactical Critical Thinking Program (TPCT) on ball control and passing accuracy in U-8 football players: A quasi-experimental study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			1972	1986		10.1177/17479541251335229			OCT 2025	2025	Critical thinking plays a vital role in enhancing decision-making and technical skill development in football. This study investigated the impact of a Critical Thinking-based Tactical Training Program (TPCT) on specific technical skills-passing accuracy and ball control-in U-8 football players (mean age: 7.9 +/- 0.7 years). A quasi-experimental design was employed with 32 participants (experimental group: n = 15, control group: n = 17). The experimental group underwent ten 60-min training sessions that combined tactical principles (width, penetration, mobility, space) with critical thinking exercises, while the control group followed traditional technical drills without tactical or cognitive components. The experimental group showed significant improvements in passing accuracy (Wilcoxon signed-rank test: W = 0.0, p = 0.002, effect size: -1.00) and ball control (paired t-test: t = 8.67, p < 0.001, Cohen's d = 2.23). In contrast, the control group did not exhibit significant changes in either skill (p > 0.05). These results suggest that integrating tactical principles and critical thinking exercises into training enhances technical skills in young players. The TPCT offers a promising approach for improving player development, providing both technical and cognitive benefits in grassroots football training.		[Alzate, Samuel Jose Octavio Gaviria] Tecnol Antioquia Inst Univ, Educ & Social Sci, Medellin, Colombia; [Higuita, Diego Alejandro; Jaramillo, Andres Felipe; Machado, Jorge Andres] Univ San Buenaventura Medellin, Educ, Bello, Colombia; [Alzate, Samuel Jose Octavio Gaviria] Tecnol Antioquia Inst Univ, Educ & Social Sci, Medellin, Colombia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001468500200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Hersant, Hannah; Oates, Luke								An analysis of technical team performances in the British Netball Superleague 2023-2024								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1143	1150		10.1177/17479541251333942			JUN 2025	2025	Despite increases in performance analysis research, research within British netball remains scarce. This study examined technical performance differences among Netball Super League (NSL) teams during the 2023 and 2024 seasons and assessed the progression of British netball since 2008. This study analysed 188 matches, with teams categorised by league position. Performance indicators (PIs) such as centre pass (CP) and turnover (TO) conversion, and shooting variables were assessed using inferential statistics, comparing top- and bottom-quality teams against different standards of opposition. Results indicated top-quality teams consistently outperformed bottom-quality teams in most PIs, with significant differences in CP, TO and shooting statistics. Top-quality teams converted a median of >70% for CP and TO to goal, indicating a threshold for successful performance. Additionally, there was a median performance improvement of >20% for these PIs compared to 2008 profiles. However, performance inconsistencies were observed, with large interquartile ranges in PIs, suggesting performance variability. These findings highlight improvements within British netball since 2008, aligning with research trends in offensive play dominance. As the NSL relaunches in 2025, this study establishes a benchmark for evaluating future league changes on competitiveness and consistency. Future research should explore tactical aspects of successful netball performance e.g. offensive and defensive CP strategies.		[Hersant, Hannah] Univ Kent, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Giles Lane, Canterbury CT2 7NZ, England; [Oates, Luke] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Hersant, Hannah] Univ Kent, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Giles Lane, Canterbury CT2 7NZ, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001468492000001	10	Article; Article		
J	Leao, Cesar; Clemente, Filipe M.; Lemos, Joao; Mota, Diogo; Roriz, Paulo; Camoes, Miguel; Carral, Jose M. Cancela								Dietary intake and training load in youth male soccer players during a microcycle: Analysis of intra-week variation and examination of associations between measures								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1059	1070		10.1177/17479541251333953			JUN 2025	2025	Purpose: Our study aims to 1) characterize and analyze food intake and typical external load in young soccer players over a normal microcycle; 2) correlate energy and macronutrient intake with external training load parameters. Methods: Eighteen high-level junior male soccer players (17.61 +/- 0.49 years old) had their nutritional intake and training load assessed during a typical mid-season competitive week in November 2022, which included two matches and a structured training schedule. Anthropometric measurements, following ISAK methodology, were taken by a certified technician. Dietary intake using self-reported food diaries for all days was analyzed. Players wore a GPS device during training and matches to measure various performance metrics (distance covered, player load, accelerations, decelerations, maximal speed, and metabolic power). Results: The results revealed no significant within-week variations of carbohydrate (p = 0.747), protein (p = 0.199), lipid (p = 0.747), and calorie (p = 0.241) intake. Significant differences were observed between training days on total distance (p = 0.001), total distance standardized to minutes (p < 0.001), player load (p = 0.007), player load standardized to minutes (p < 0.001), and meta energy (p = 0.002). Conclusions: Players maintained a consistent diet throughout the week, while training load measures varied significantly across the same microcycle, indicating a lack of nutritional periodization. This highlights the need for better nutritional strategies to support varying training loads. It is crucial to reflect on the importance of this apparently insufficient intake for the health and performance of young athletes. Future investigations should explore the development of tailored nutritional plans to enhance their overall well-being and athletic performance.		[Leao, Cesar; Carral, Jose M. Cancela] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ Sci & Sports Sci, Pontevedra 36005, Spain; [Leao, Cesar; Clemente, Filipe M.; Lemos, Joao; Camoes, Miguel] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial NunAlvares, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Leao, Cesar; Clemente, Filipe M.; Camoes, Miguel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Leao, Cesar; Mota, Diogo; Roriz, Paulo] High Performance Dept Futebol Clube Pacos Ferreira, Pacos De Ferreira, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe M.] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Delegacao Covilha, P-1049001 Lisbon, Portugal; [Roriz, Paulo] Univ Maia, Sports Sci & Phys Educ Dept, Maia, Portugal; [Roriz, Paulo] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Leao, Cesar] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ Sci & Sports Sci, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001468489500001	64	Article; Article		
J	Mueller, Emma M.; Eberson, Craig P.; Rumps, Mia V.; Saraf, Shreya M.; Mulcahey, Mary K.								Gender based disparities in research on injuries in NCAA athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	5			389	397		10.1080/00913847.2025.2491111			SEP 3 2025	2025	ObjectivesFemales participate in clinical research at a much lower rate than males, leading to clinical outcome disparities. The objective of this study was to determine whether gender-based disparities exist in orthopedic sports medicine injury research on NCAA college student-athletes.MethodsA PubMed search was conducted in September 2023 using the search terms 'NCAA,' 'injury,' and each of the 24 individual NCAA sports between 1980 and 2023. Statistical analysis was performed via determination of adjusted correlation coefficient R2 and multiple linear regression models. Gender was the independent variable, number of studies was the dependent variable.ResultsOf 1,553 studies initially identified, 790 met inclusion criteria and underwent full-text review. Of NCAA studies that assessed injury rates (injury rate studies) and those that evaluated other outcomes such as performance (non-injury rate studies), 468 of 790 (59%) discussed male collegiate athletes and 318 (40%) discussed females. For females, there was a negative association between athlete-exposure rate and injury rate studies (expected decrease of 0.31 studies per 100,000 athlete-exposures) and between athlete-exposure rate and non-injury rate studies (decrease of 0.007). For males, there was a positive association for each (increase of 1.15 and 1.96). Injury rates were positively associated with injury rate study numbers for both males and females (increase of 3.71). There was no significant relationship between injury rates and non-injury rate study numbers for either gender.ConclusionThis study demonstrates gender disparities in orthopedic sports medicine injury research for collegiate athletes. There was a negative association between athlete-exposure rate and injury rate or non-injury rate studies for female NCAA athletes, but a positive association for males.Clinical relevanceIt is important to ensure that sports medicine research is focused on both male and female NCAA athletes to be able to evaluate injuries, outcomes, and opportunities for injury prevention		[Mueller, Emma M.; Eberson, Craig P.] Brown Univ, Hasbro Childrens Hosp, Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthoped, Providence, RI USA; [Rumps, Mia V.; Saraf, Shreya M.; Mulcahey, Mary K.] Loyola Univ Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, 2160 S First Ave, Maguire Bldg, Suite 1700, Maywood, IL 60153 USA; [Mulcahey, Mary K.] Loyola Univ Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, 2160 S First Ave, Maguire Bldg, Suite 1700, Maywood, IL 60153 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001466326000001	42	Article; Article		
J	Kellenberg, Derek; Taylor, Matthew P.								Externalities of Violence: The Effects of National Hockey League Fighting on Youth Hockey Participation								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	5			562	588		10.1177/15270025251328284			JUN 2025	2025	Prior research has focused on the effects of National Hockey League (NHL) fights on fan attendance and profits of NHL teams. We examine the potentially larger external costs of fighting in the NHL on youth hockey participation in the United States and Canada. Using an instrumental variables approach we find that the number of NHL fights in a season has a significant negative effect on male youth hockey participation in the United States, but less definitive effects in Canada or on female youth participation. These negative impacts on US youth hockey participation have meaningful subsequent impacts on revenue for USA Hockey and local youth hockey organizations and businesses.		[Kellenberg, Derek; Taylor, Matthew P.] Univ Montana, Dept Econ, 32 Campus Dr, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Kellenberg, Derek] Univ Montana, Dept Econ, 32 Campus Dr, Missoula, MT 59812 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001464121200001	42	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Xiaoxia; Yun, Joonkoo								The Relationship Between High-Quality Physical Education, Physical Literacy, and Physical Activity Participation: A Retrospective Study From US College Students								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	4			627	636		10.1080/02701367.2025.2472943			OCT 2 2025	2025	Physical education (PE) participation at school age is suggested to increase physical activity levels in adulthood. However, there is a limited understanding of the underlying mechanism in this relationship between PE and physical activity (PA). This study aimed to examine how the quality of PE in high school is associated with future physical activity engagement in young adulthood and whether physical literacy is a mediator in this relationship. A group of 280 college students (62.1% women; Mage = 20.09, SD = 2.04) were recruited from 11 universities in the United States. The students filled out an online survey measuring the quality of PE in high school, leisure-time physical activity, and physical literacy. A path analysis revealed a good fit of the mediation model with sex as a covariate (chi 2/df = 1.73, p = .02; CFI = 0.99; IFI = 0.99; TLI = 0.98; RMSEA = 0.05, 90% CI [0.02, 0.08]). Quality of PE has a significant direct association (beta = 0.12) with physical activity and an indirect association with physical activity through physical literacy (beta = 0.05). The findings illustrate that high-quality high school PE is associated with physical activity directly and indirectly through physical literacy. It is critical to provide high-quality high school PE by addressing the environment, curriculum, instruction, and assessment to develop physical literacy and physical activity participation. Improving physical literacy through high-quality PE and other settings (e.g., school sports and community clubs) is a viable way to promote PA participation.		[Zhang, Xiaoxia] West Virginia Univ, Morgantown, WV USA; [Yun, Joonkoo] Univ New Hampshire, Durham, NH USA; [Zhang, Xiaoxia] West Virginia Univ, Sch Sport Sci, AHB-E 251, 375 Birch St, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001462452900001	61	Article; Article		
J	Truszynski, Aleksander; Fischer, Jedrzej; Rychter, Marcin; Kacala, Arkadiusz; Hnat, Igor; Janczak, Dariusz; Szuba, Andrzej								Recurrent ischemic events in the setting of posterior circumflex humeral artery aneurysm in an athletic young adult: a case report with diagnostic pitfalls								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	3			256	261		10.1080/00913847.2025.2488243			MAY 4 2025	2025	Posterior circumflex humeral artery (PCHA) aneurysm is a rare condition, often affecting young professional overhead sports athletes, such as volleyball or baseball players. This condition is one of the manifestations of quadrilateral space syndrome (QSS). We present the case of a 20-year-old former basketball player and recreational swimmer, currently a member of the national team in precision flying, who developed recurrent symptoms of digital ischemia due to a PCHA aneurysm. Despite undergoing computed tomography (CT) imaging, the aneurysm was initially not identified, which delayed proper diagnosis. The patient ultimately underwent surgical treatment, leading to successful resolution of symptoms and return to physical activity. This case underscores the diagnostic challenges of PCHA aneurysm, especially in athletes presenting with unexplained digital ischemia, and emphasizes the need for awareness of this condition among sports medicine and vascular specialists.		[Truszynski, Aleksander; Fischer, Jedrzej; Szuba, Andrzej] Wroclaw Med Univ, Dept Angiol & Internal Med, 213 Borowska St, PL- 50556 Wroclaw, Poland; [Rychter, Marcin; Hnat, Igor; Janczak, Dariusz] Wroclaw Med Univ, Dept Vasc Gen & Transplant Surg, Wroclaw, Poland; [Kacala, Arkadiusz] Wroclaw Med Univ, Dept Gen Intervent & Neuroradiol, Wroclaw, Poland; [Truszynski, Aleksander] Wroclaw Med Univ, Dept Angiol & Internal Med, 213 Borowska St, PL- 50556 Wroclaw, Poland								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001462072300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Jodar-Boixet, Nil; Torres-Pascual, Cristina; Donat-Roca, Rafel; Thorborg, Kristian; Prats-Puig, Anna; Esteve, Ernest								Assessing musculoskeletal complaints in para-athletes: A systematic review and critical appraisal of available Patient-Reported Outcome Measures								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				121	132		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.03.007			MAY 2025	2025	Objective: To identify the available Patient-reported Outcome Measures (PROMs) for assessing musculoskeletal complaints in para-athletes and to evaluate their psychometric properties, ultimately providing recommendations for their use. Methods: PubMed, Embase, Scopus, Cochrane Library, Web of Science, ProQuest, and COSMIN Database were searched until October 2024. Full report studies evaluating psychometric properties of PROMs in para-sport participants with musculoskeletal pain were included. The methodology followed the Consensus-based Standards for selection of Health Measurement Instruments (COSMIN) and PRISMA-COSMIN for OMIs 2024 Guidelines. Results: Six articles reported information on Wheelchair User's Shoulder Pain Index (WUSPI); Shoulder Pain Scale for Wheelchair Basketball (SPS-WB); and, Shoulder Pain Index for Wheelchair Basketball (SPI-WB). Content validity was inconsistent for WUSPI and SPS-WB. Structural validity was indeterminate for SPS-WB. Internal consistency was sufficient for SPS-WB but indeterminate for WUSPI and SPI-WB. Reliability was sufficient for WUSPI and SPI-WB. Convergent validity was sufficient for WUSPI but indeterminate for SPS-WB and SPI-WB. Discriminative validity was insufficient for WUSPI and SPI-WB and indeterminate for SPS-WB. Conclusions: Evidence on PROMs for musculoskeletal complaints in para-sports focuses on shoulder pain in wheelchair basketball, showing low to very low-quality evidence. The WUSPI and SPS-WB can be used considering their limitations.		[Jodar-Boixet, Nil; Torres-Pascual, Cristina; Donat-Roca, Rafel; Prats-Puig, Anna; Esteve, Ernest] Univ Girona, Univ Sch Hlth & Sport EUSES, Girona, Catalonia, Spain; [Jodar-Boixet, Nil; Prats-Puig, Anna; Esteve, Ernest] Univ Girona UdG, Dept Med Sci, Res Grp Clin Anat Embryol & Neurosci NEOMA, Girona, Catalonia, Spain; [Donat-Roca, Rafel] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport Exercise & Human Movement Res Grp, Manresa, Spain; [Thorborg, Kristian] Amager Hvidovre Univ Hosp, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, Copenhagen SORC C, Hvidovre, Denmark; [Jodar-Boixet, Nil] Univ Girona, Univ Sch Hlth & Sport EUSES, Girona, Catalonia, Spain								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001465207400001	75	Article; Article		
J	Lacelle, Kristen L.; Bassi, Mario D.; Champagne, Allen A.; Baker, Boris R. G.; Peponoulas, Emile P.; Shearer, Kaden T.; Magee, Blaire T.; Coverdale, Nicole S.; Cook, Douglas J.								Characterising biomechanical and situational aspects of high magnitude subconcussive impacts in Canadian collegiate football								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2498	2518		10.1080/14763141.2025.2471804			SEP 2 2025	2025	The objective of this study was to characterise high magnitude subconcussive impacts in Canadian football to identify injurious relationships between player/game-based characteristics, impact magnitude, and frequency. Eighty-one male university-level football players were equipped with helmet accelerometers to capture peak linear acceleration (PLA), impact frequency, and helmet impact location. Impacts with PLA >= 60 g were included in this analysis. Video footage from 15 games over three seasons was analysed to characterise aspects of play including play type, position, closing distance, tackling versus blocking, and impact. Impacts occurring at the left outside boundary of the field resulted in significantly higher linear accelerations. Impacts with a closing distance of >= 10 yards resulted in higher PLA compared to <10 yards and occurred most frequently in run plays. Helmet-to-body impacts generated significantly higher PLA compared to helmet-to-helmet, though helmet-to-helmet occurred more often. Players being tackled sustained significantly higher PLAs than those blocking. The results of this work suggest that the left outside boundary is an area of importance for spotters looking to identify high-risk impacts. Further, rules regarding offensive backfield running starts could be adjusted to decrease the risk of impact after a larger closing distance.		[Lacelle, Kristen L.; Baker, Boris R. G.; Peponoulas, Emile P.; Shearer, Kaden T.; Magee, Blaire T.; Coverdale, Nicole S.; Cook, Douglas J.] Queens Univ, Ctr Neurosci Studies, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Bassi, Mario D.] Queens Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Champagne, Allen A.] Queens Univ, Sch Med, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Cook, Douglas J.] Queens Univ, Dept Surg, Div Neurosurg, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Cook, Douglas J.] Queens Univ, Ctr Neurosci Studies, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Cook, Douglas J.] Queens Univ, Dept Surg, Div Neurosurg, Kingston, ON, Canada								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001463184700001	53	Article; Article		
J	Kobayashi, F.; Noro, A.; Hatakeyama, S.; Shinohara, Y.; Otsuka, M.								Relationship between maximal jumping height in pole vault and the approach-run velocity evaluated by digitising method or laser method								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2631	2646		10.1080/14763141.2025.2486095			SEP 2 2025	2025	The first objective was to validate various approach-run velocities obtained using body-only method (digitising only the athlete's body) or laser method (using a laser displacement metre) against the whole-system method (digitising both the athlete's body and pole) during pole vaulting. The second objective of this study was to clarify the relationship between the approach-run velocity obtained by different three methods and the maximal height of the athlete's centre of mass (COM) during the clearance. Eighteen male athletes performed 96 pole-vaulting attempts in outdoor competitions. Bland-Altman plots indicated that only the peak approach-run velocity obtained by the body-only method had negligible bias, while other parameters obtained by body-only digitising and laser methods contained several errors. Since such bias could cause problems, using conventional digitising and laser methods requires careful handling. The association between maximal COM height during the clearance and peak approach-run velocity was extremely large for all three methods. In contrast, although the relationship between the maximal COM height and the decrease in approach-run velocity was large for both digitising methods, it was weakened for laser method. Consequently, based on the approach-run velocity parameters, different calculation methods for approach-run velocity parameters resulted in varying relationships with jumping performance.		[Kobayashi, F.; Hatakeyama, S.; Otsuka, M.] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Yokohama, Japan; [Noro, A.] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Shinohara, Y.] Josai Univ, Fac Management, Sakado, Japan; [Otsuka, M.] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Yokohama, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001461271100001	38	Article; Article		
J	Laigo, Anthony; Kikumoto, Takanori; Takabayashi, Tomoya; Watanabe, Takahiro; Kikuchi, Yudai; Kubo, Masayoshi								Effects of differing platform orientations on forefoot and hindfoot kinematics in chronic ankle instability during single leg landing								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				114	120		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.03.012			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: To investigate how modifiable landing platforms influence intra-foot movement during single-leg landings, comparing forefoot and hindfoot kinematics between individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI) and controls to inform segment-focused rehabilitation strategies. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: 20 university students, 12 with CAI, 8 controls. Main outcome measures: Participants performed single-leg landing on platforms with three orientations (inverted, plantarflexed-everted-abducted and dorsiflexed-inverted-adducted), and four inclinations (10 degrees, 12 degrees, 14 degrees, 16 degrees). These configurations were based on prior studies and safety limits. Net frontal-plane movement of the forefoot and hindfoot was calculated across a 400ms window. Results: The CAI group showed significantly greater forefoot inversion (eta 2 = 0.32; p <0.01) and non-significant group difference in hindfoot eversion (eta(2) = 0.183; p = 0.06). Orientation and inclination had large effects on forefoot motion (eta(2) = 0.56 and 0.80, respectively; p < 0.001). A significant group x segment interaction (eta(2) = 0.24; p < 0.001) indicated contrasting movement between the forefoot and hindfoot in CAI, not observed in controls. Conclusion: Individuals with CAI demonstrated a less adaptive, segment-specific landing strategy. Findings support the use of modifiable platforms and multi-segment foot models to guide targeted interventions addressing forefoot compensation and improving segmental control during landing.		[Laigo, Anthony; Kikumoto, Takanori; Takabayashi, Tomoya; Watanabe, Takahiro; Kikuchi, Yudai; Kubo, Masayoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, 1398 Shimami-cho Kita-Ku, Niigata 9503198, Japan; [Kikumoto, Takanori; Takabayashi, Tomoya; Kubo, Masayoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, Niigata, Japan; [Laigo, Anthony; Kubo, Masayoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, 1398 Shimami-cho Kita-Ku, Niigata 9503198, Japan								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001469722100001	31	Article; Article		
J	Manoli, Argyro Elisavet; Doyle, Jason Patrick								Insights from the inside: marketing agency practitioners' perspectives on developing athlete brands								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	6			100	116		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2024-0270			APR 4 2025	2025	PurposeBuilding on existing research that has analysed the components of athlete brands externally, this study examines how athlete brands are being developed internally by marketing agency practitioners (MAPs), who are oftentimes the individuals leading the process.Design/methodology/approachQualitative data generated through interviews with MAPs (N = 28) from 16 different marketing and public relations UK agencies are utilised in this study, offering insights from the key individuals involved in the process.FindingsThe findings revealed a three-step co-creational approach to athlete brand development, consisting of (1) brand brainstorming, (2) brand pillaring and (3) brand training, led by clearly defined strategic goals.Originality/valueCapturing this three-step process has not only theoretical implications by shedding light on a previously undisclosed process but also practical implications, forwarding a roadmap to guide the athlete brand development process.		[Manoli, Argyro Elisavet] Univ Bergamo, Dept Management, Bergamo, Italy; [Doyle, Jason Patrick] Griffith Univ, Griffith Business Sch, Dept Tourism & Mkt, Nathan, Australia; [Manoli, Argyro Elisavet] Univ Bergamo, Dept Management, Bergamo, Italy								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001461726600001	49	Article; Article		
J	Atkins, Lee T.; Ede, Kelsey; Reid, Megan; Chan, Daniel								Hip-focused strengthening and task-specific movement training for an individual with chronic, recurrent femoroacetabular impingement syndrome								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				107	113		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.03.010			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: Examine the effects of hip-focused strengthening and task-specific movement training for a female who has undergone multiple surgical procedures yet continues to experience chronic, recurrent FAIS-related symptoms. Study design: Case Report. Methods: A 23-year-old active female with an eleven-year history of FAIS and two previous surgical procedures recently experienced a third recurrence of symptoms brought on by increased physical activity levels. The patient performed progressive exercises focused on improving hip extension, abduction, and external rotation strength. The patient also received task-specific movement training aimed at minimizing hip adduction and internal rotation during movement that provoked her symptoms. Results: Following treatment, the patient's self-reported hip pain during movement improved 2.2 points and was abolished during four of the five activities examined. The patient exhibited strength gains for the hip extensors (22 %), abductors (36 %), and external rotators (20 %). The patient exhibited decreased hip adduction during all activities (mean difference = 10.6 degrees) and decreased hip internal rotation during three of the five activities (mean difference = 3.7 degrees). Conclusion: This case report highlights the effects of hip-focused strengthening and task-specific movement training for a patient with longstanding FAIS and multiple surgical procedures.		[Atkins, Lee T.] Texas Tech Univ, Hlth Sci Ctr, 3601 4th St,Stop 6223, Lubbock, TX 79423 USA; [Ede, Kelsey] Texas Agr Expt Stn, 1619 Garner Field Rd, Uvalde, TX 78801 USA; [Reid, Megan] Shannon Rehabil Hosp, 6046 Appaloosa Trail, San Angelo, TX 76901 USA; [Chan, Daniel] ANX Home Healthcare, 1633 Bayshore Fwy,Suite 234, Burlingame, CA 94010 USA; [Atkins, Lee T.] Texas Tech Univ, Hlth Sci Ctr, 3601 4th St,Stop 6223, Lubbock, TX 79423 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001463162500001	52	Article; Article		
J	Takegami, Ayaka; Mashimo, Sonoko; Ichihara, Suguru; Nishida, Satoru; Ito, Akira; Waki, Hideaki; Hosoi, Satoshi; Yoshida, Naruto								Prevalence and severity of injuries and illnesses among university handball players: A prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				100	106		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.03.009			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: To clarify the prevalence and severity of injuries and illnesses in university handball players. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Survey-based online questionnaire. Participants: 231 university handball players (109 males and 122 females) over 38 weeks. Main outcome measures: Each participant completed the Japanese version of the Oslo Sports Trauma Research Center Questionnaire on Health Problems every Sunday. The main outcome measures were the average weekly prevalence of injuries and illnesses, duration, average weekly severity scores rated on a scale of 0-100 based on answers to four key questions, and cumulative severity scores. Results: The average weekly prevalence was 27.4 % (95 % CI: 25.6-29.1 %) for injuries and 2.2 % (95 % CI: 1.6-2.8 %) for illnesses. Among injuries, traumatic injuries had higher average weekly severity scores (50.0 vs 32.0, p < 0.05) and cumulative severity scores per case (65.0 vs 42.0, p < 0.05) than overuse injuries. Conversely, overuse injuries lasted approximately 10 days longer than traumatic injuries (18 days vs 10 days, p < 0.05). Traumatic knee injuries and overuse shoulder injuries ranked the highest in prevalence, duration, and cumulative severity scores. Conclusions: We found that, although overuse injuries were less severe than traumatic injuries, they interfered with handball activities for extended periods.		[Takegami, Ayaka; Yoshida, Naruto] Rikkyo Univ, Coll Sport & Wellness, 1-2-26 Kitano, Niiza, Saitama 3528558, Japan; [Mashimo, Sonoko] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, 1-1-1 Noji Higashi, Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan; [Ichihara, Suguru] Heisei Int Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Studies, 2000 Otateno, Kazo, Saitama 3478504, Japan; [Nishida, Satoru] Ryutsu Keizai Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, 120 Hirahata, Ryugasaki, Ibaraki 3018555, Japan; [Ito, Akira] Edogawa Univ, Coll Sociol, 474 Komagi, Nagareyama, Chiba 2700198, Japan; [Waki, Hideaki] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Hlth Care, Dept Acupuncture & Moxibust, 2-51-4 Higashiikebukuro,Toshima Ku, Tokyo 1708445, Japan; [Hosoi, Satoshi] Tokyo Coll Med Sports, 3-1-16 Nishikasai,Edogawa Ku, Tokyo 1340088, Japan; [Takegami, Ayaka] Rikkyo Univ, Coll Sport & Wellness, 1-2-26 Kitano, Niiza, Saitama 3528558, Japan								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001462996500001	37	Article; Article		
J	de Souza, Walber Jose Figueiredo; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Aguiar, Samuel da Silva; Pittner, Larissa; Araujo, Erivaldo Machado; Rocha, Matheus de Souza; Silva, Francielli Evelin Lopes; Silva, Ana Filipa; Castro, Henrique de Oliveira								Exploring the Effects of Players' Numbers and Court Size on Tactical-Technical Performance Analysis of Novice Players in Basketball Small-Sided Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				127	140		10.5114/jhk/190400			APR 2025	2025	This study aims to examine the tactical behavior, decision-making, and technical skills of young novice basketball players in small-sided games (SSGs) with different numerical configurations and court sizes. Participants were 16 novice male players aged between 11 and 15 years with no competitive experience. A total of 13 games were played, comprising nine SSG formats with numerical equality, superiority, and inferiority, in two court sizes: a full court (FC) and a half court (HC). In SSGs played in the FC, pass efficacy was significantly higher (p < 0.05) in 5 vs. 4 and 4 vs. 3 formats, while dribble efficacy was significantly higher (p < 0.05) in the 2 vs. 1 HC format. The 3 vs. 3 FC format showed greater (p < 0.05) shot efficacy. Reception efficacy was significantly higher (p < 0.05) in the 2 vs. 1 HC format, as well as rebound efficacy. However, appropriate passes were significantly lower (p < 0.05) in the 4 vs. 3 FC format. Dribble efficacy was significantly greater (p < 0.05) in the 2 vs. 1 HC format and appropriate shots were significantly greater (p < 0.05) in the 2 vs. 1 HC format. Regarding defensive and offensive technical-tactical actions, the 3 vs. 3 HC format presented significantly higher values (p < 0.05) of support, while ball marking was significantly greater (p < 0.05) in the 3 vs. 2 HC format. In conclusion, this study indicates that smaller (balanced and unbalanced) SSG formats tend to enhance the frequency, effectiveness, and appropriateness of attacking and defensive behaviors, particularly those involving direct actions.		[de Souza, Walber Jose Figueiredo; Pittner, Larissa; Rocha, Matheus de Souza; Silva, Francielli Evelin Lopes; Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Phys Educ Dept, Cuiaba, Brazil; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Silva, Ana Filipa] Inst Politecn Viana Do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Silva, Ana Filipa] Recreat Innovat & Technol SPRINT, Res Ctr Sports Performance, Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland; [Aguiar, Samuel da Silva; Araujo, Erivaldo Machado] Univ Ctr UDF, Phys Educ Dept, Brasilia, Brazil; [Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Phys Educ Dept, Cuiaba, Brazil								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400010	38	Article; Article		
J	Peng, Yu-Ching; Guo, Yi-Ting; Wu, Jeng-Cheng; Hou, Wen-Hsuan								Effects of Whole-Body Vibration on Exercise Performance among Athletes: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				27	50		10.5114/jhk/193514			APR 2025	2025	Whole-body vibration (WBV), an intervention for enhancing athletes' exercise performance (muscle strength and power), is often used either as a supplement or an alternative to conventional training. The current systematic review and meta-analysis assessed the effects of WBV on exercise performance in athletes. PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane Library databases were searched for relevant randomized controlled trials published from database inception to April 2024. We analyzed three key components of exercise performance: muscle power (measured in terms of countermovement jump (CMJ) and squat jump (SJ) height), strength (measured in terms of isometric and concentric torque of the knee extensors and flexors), and aerobic cardiovascular endurance (measured in terms of maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max)). This review included 18 randomized controlled trials. WBV significantly improved concentric torque of the knee extensors and flexors, with effect sizes of 8.86 (95% confidence interval: 6.00 to 11.72; I-2 = 0%; p < 0.00001) and 9.56 (95% confidence interval: 7.40 to 11.72; I-2 = 0%; p < 0.00001), respectively. However, no significant changes were noted in the indicators of muscle power or cardiovascular endurance. Overall, our findings suggest that WBV interventions can enhance lower-limb strength in athletes. However, the quality of the evidence was low. To provide effective evidence-based guidance for WBV, future studies should consider participants' characteristics as well as intervention frequency, intensity, and duration in their analysis.		[Peng, Yu-Ching; Guo, Yi-Ting] Taipei Med Univ, Coll Med, Sch Med, Taipei, Taiwan; [Peng, Yu-Ching; Hou, Wen-Hsuan] Taipei Med Univ Hosp, Dept Med Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Guo, Yi-Ting] Taipei Vet Gen Hosp, Dept Med Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wu, Jeng-Cheng] Taipei Med Univ Hosp, Dept Urol, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wu, Jeng-Cheng] Taipei Med Univ, Res Ctr Urol & Kidney, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wu, Jeng-Cheng] Taipei Med Univ, Coll Med, Sch Med, Dept Educ & Humanities Med, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wu, Jeng-Cheng] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Hlth Promot & Hlth Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hou, Wen-Hsuan] Taipei Med Univ, Coll Med, Sch Med, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hou, Wen-Hsuan] Taipei Med Univ, Cochrane Taiwan, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hou, Wen-Hsuan] Taipei Med Univ, Grad Inst Clin Med, Coll Med, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hou, Wen-Hsuan] Taipei Med Univ, Coll Nursing, Sch Gerontol & Long Term Care, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hou, Wen-Hsuan] Taipei Med Univ Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hou, Wen-Hsuan] Taipei Med Univ Hosp, Dept Med Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wu, Jeng-Cheng] Taipei Med Univ Hosp, Dept Urol, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wu, Jeng-Cheng] Taipei Med Univ, Res Ctr Urol & Kidney, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wu, Jeng-Cheng] Taipei Med Univ, Coll Med, Sch Med, Dept Educ & Humanities Med, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wu, Jeng-Cheng] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Hlth Promot & Hlth Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hou, Wen-Hsuan] Taipei Med Univ, Coll Med, Sch Med, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hou, Wen-Hsuan] Taipei Med Univ, Cochrane Taiwan, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hou, Wen-Hsuan] Taipei Med Univ, Grad Inst Clin Med, Coll Med, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hou, Wen-Hsuan] Taipei Med Univ, Coll Nursing, Sch Gerontol & Long Term Care, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hou, Wen-Hsuan] Taipei Med Univ Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Taipei, Taiwan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400003	81	Article; Article		
J	Fernandes, Rodrigo Volga; de Oliveira, Roque Santos; de Matos, Luciana Diniz Nagem Janot d; Gaspar, Alexandra Passos; Laurentino, Gilberto								Effects of Elastic Bands, Kaatsu Cuffs, and Clinical Cuffs on the Brachial Blood Flow during Elbow Flexion Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				101	114		10.5114/jhk/193490			APR 2025	2025	The elastic band (EB) may be an alternative for restricting the blood flow compared to the Kaatsu and clinical cuffs (KA and CC, respectively). However, the impact of the EB, the KA, and the CC on the blood flow during exercise remains uncertain. This study examined the blood flow (BF), the diameter of the brachial artery (DA), and blood flow velocity (BFV) during elbow flexion exercises using the KA, the CC, and the EB. Twenty-six resistance-trained men (age: 30.7 +/- 8.7 years, body mass: 80.7 +/- 15.5 kg, body height: 175.7 +/- 6.5 cm) completed four sets of 15 repetitions of unilateral elbow flexion exercise at 20% 1RM. All protocols were set to the same perceived tightness (PT) based on Kaatsu optimal pressure (KOP). The BF, BFV and the DA were assessed at baseline, at KOP, and during the exercise sets. The BF and BFV were significantly reduced from baseline to KOP when the KA (67%, ES: 1.4, p = 0.0002; 24%, ES: 1.9, p < 0.0001) and the CC (70%, ES: 1.7, p < 0.0001; 31%, ES: 1.6, p < 0.0001) were applied, yet not the EB (49%, ES: 1.1, p = 0.103; 17%, ES: 0.7, p = 0.123). The BF and BFV increased from KOP to the fourth exercise set in all protocols with the KA (409%, ES: 2.4, p < 0.0001; 37.5 %, ES: 1.7, p = 0.007), the CC (377%, ES: 2.0, p < 0.0001; 55%, ES: 1.3, p < 0.0001) and the EB (411%, ES: 2.9, p < 0.0001; 43%, ES: 1.3, p = 0.002), respectively, with no significant difference between them (p > 0.05). The DA remained unchanged after all protocols (p > 0.05). In conclusion, the EB showed similar blood flow behavior compared to pressure-controlled cuffs.		[Fernandes, Rodrigo Volga; de Oliveira, Roque Santos; Laurentino, Gilberto] Sao Judas Univ, Blood Flow Restrict & Exercise Res Grp, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [de Matos, Luciana Diniz Nagem Janot d; Gaspar, Alexandra Passos] Hosp Israelita Albert Einstein, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Fernandes, Rodrigo Volga] Sao Judas Univ, Blood Flow Restrict & Exercise Res Grp, Sao Paulo, Brazil								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400008	38	Article; Article		
J	Miqueleiz, Unai; Aguado-Jimenez, Roberto; Lecumberri, Pablo; Garcia-Tabar, Ibai; Gorostiaga, Esteban M.								Reliability of Inertial Measurement Unit-Based Spatiotemporal and Kinetic Variables in Endurance Runners during Treadmill Running								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				65	76		10.5114/jhk/195895			APR 2025	2025	Wearable technology for running analysis is growing in both sports science research and applied fields. This study examined the reliability of some spatiotemporal and kinetic variables estimated from an inertial measurement unit (IMU) fastened over the lumbar spine. Eighteen recreational endurance runners performed two maximal incremental treadmill running tests during a 7-10 day period under standard conditions. Contact time (CT), stride time (ST), stride length (SL), stride frequency (SF), as well as anteroposterior (AP) impulses and vertical (VT) peak brake data were analysed at 9, 15 and 21 km<middle dot>h(-1). Test-retest reliability was measured as the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC), the coefficient of variation (CV) and minimal detectable change (MDC). No significant differences between tests were observed (p > 0.05; effect size (ES) < 0.28; trivial to small). Reliability increased from 9 to 21 km<middle dot>h(-1) (ICC from 0.88 to 0.93; ES = 1.0; moderate) and was higher in spatiotemporal (CV < 2.3%) than kinetic variables (CV < 6.8%). This study adds novel data regarding the reliability of the MTw IMU. The results reported in this study enable researchers to determine whether the changes in IMU-derived data are outside of the measurement error following training and rehabilitation settings.		[Miqueleiz, Unai; Aguado-Jimenez, Roberto] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Hlth Sci, Pamplona, Spain; [Miqueleiz, Unai; Gorostiaga, Esteban M.] Govt Navarre, Studies Res & Sports Med Ctr CEIMD, Pamplona, Spain; [Lecumberri, Pablo] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Math, Pamplona, Spain; [Garcia-Tabar, Ibai] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Soc Sports & Phys Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria-gasteiz, Spain; [Garcia-Tabar, Ibai] Bioaraba Hlth Res Inst, Phys Act Exercise & Hlth Grp, Vitoria, Spain; [Aguado-Jimenez, Roberto] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Hlth Sci, Pamplona, Spain								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400005	40	Article; Article		
J	Dell'Antonio, Elisa; Machado, Jean Marlon; Mendes, Felipe G.; Goncalves, Gabriel Henrique Treter								Road to Paris-2024: The Path of Brazilian Volleyball Athletes Goes Through the Youth National Teams								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				225	235		10.5114/jhk/191099			APR 2025	2025	This study analyzed the transition of Brazilian volleyball athletes from youth national teams to adult national teams, and examined the relative age effect in the selection of athletes for youth categories and their transition to the adult category. In youth categories, 326 athletes participating in the U18 and U20 women's and U19 and U21 men's world championships between 2001 and 2021 were prospectively analyzed. In the adult category, a retrospective analysis was conducted on 55 athletes who participated in the Olympic Games or World Championships between 2004 and 2022. Our results showed that approximately 20% of athletes participating in youth categories advanced to the adult national team. However, around 80% of adult teams comprised athletes who were part of youth categories. An athlete who progressed through both youth categories was 35 times more likely to be selected to the adult national teams compared to an athlete who only participated in the U18/U19 youth team. In youth national teams, there was a higher call-up rate for athletes born earlier. Despite this, athletes born later were more likely to advance to the adult national team.		[Dell'Antonio, Elisa; Machado, Jean Marlon; Goncalves, Gabriel Henrique Treter] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Mendes, Felipe G.] Univ Luxembourg, Dept Social Sci, Esch Sur Alzett, Luxembourg; [Dell'Antonio, Elisa] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Florianopolis, Brazil								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400017	40	Article; Article		
J	Gong, Min; Liu, Yan; Cao, Zhi; Gao, Binghong								Strength and Push Gait Asymmetry in Skeleton Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				13	25		10.5114/jhk/193480			APR 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to explore how lower limb strength and push gait asymmetry affected performance of skeleton athletes. Isokinetic strength of the bilateral lower limb was measured in sixteen skeleton athletes. Kinematic and kinetic data were also collected during pushing. The asymmetry of lower limb strength and the push gait were measured using the symmetry angle. Asymmetry existed in the strength of the lower limbs and the push gait of skeleton athletes. The symmetry angle of peak torque of ankle dorsiflexion at 60 degrees/s (r = -0.48, p = 0.06) and contact time (r = -0.48, p = 0.06) was moderately negatively correlated with mean push velocity, but the center of gravity height (r = 0.50, p = 0.05) and the hip joint angle (r = 0.54, p = 0.03) at the touchdown showed a moderate positive correlation with mean push velocity. The asymmetry of lower limb strength and the push gait in skeleton athletes is specialized. Reducing the difference in peak torque of dorsiflexion between both sides, as well as the disparity in contact time during the push phase, may be beneficial in enhancing push velocity.		[Gong, Min] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sch Sports Training, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Liu, Yan; Cao, Zhi; Gao, Binghong] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Gao, Binghong] Macao Polytech Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Sports, Macau, Peoples R China; [Gao, Binghong] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Gao, Binghong] Macao Polytech Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Sports, Macau, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400002	37	Article; Article		
J	Monteiro, Ana Sofia; Azevedo, Rui M. S.; Zacca, Rodrigo; Ogonowska-Slodownik, Anna; Buzzachera, Cosme F.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.								VO<sub>2</sub>FITTING Software: New Insights and Practical Applications (VO<sub>2</sub>FITTING Software Update)								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				89	100		10.5114/jhk/194124			APR 2025	2025	This study aimed to present an updated version of VO(2)FITTING software, where it is possible to dynamically edit, process, filter and model (V) over dotO(2) post-exercise data and to characterize the (V) over dotO(2) on/off symmetry along different exercise intensity domains. Validation datasets were developed and applied to four widely used models for describing low, moderate, heavy and severe intensity transitions. Perfect fits were observed and parameter estimates perfectly matched the known inputted values for all available models (standard error = 0; p < 0.001). In addition, an experiment with 10 trained swimmers performing a 5 x 200 m front crawl protocol (with 0.05 m.s(-1) velocity step increments and 3-min passive rest intervals) was conducted. The on- and off-transient phases were symmetrical in their shape since they were both adequately fitted by a mono-exponential regression model and no slow component was observed independently of the intensity domain. Furthermore, the mono-exponential model without time delay best fitted the (V) over dotO(2) off-transient data. The mean time constant of the on-transient period value was lower than the respective off-transient for all the intensities (15.8 +/- 11.4 vs. 30.8 +/- 10.4, 11.3 +/- 2.3 vs. 29.7 +/- 8.4, 13.9 +/- 7.0 vs. 28.7 +/- 10.8 and 10.3 +/- 4.6 vs. 37.0 +/- 9.2 s; p < 0.05). VO(2)FITTING is valid, free and open-source software for characterizing (V) over dotO(2) kinetics during both the exercise and recovery periods, helping researchers to give rapid feedback also about the off-transient kinetic parameters.		[Monteiro, Ana Sofia; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Monteiro, Ana Sofia; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [Azevedo, Rui M. S.] Univ Inst Hlth Sci CESPU, Inst Hlth & Bioecon, Lab i4HB, Gandra, Portugal; [Azevedo, Rui M. S.] Univ Inst Hlth Sci 1H TOXRUN, UCIBIO Appl Mol Biosci Unit, Forens & Biomed Sci Res Lab, IUCS CESPU, Gandra, Portugal; [Zacca, Rodrigo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Res Ctr Phys Act Hlth & Leisure, Porto, Portugal; [Zacca, Rodrigo] Lab Integrat & Translat Res Populat Hlth, Porto, Portugal; [Ogonowska-Slodownik, Anna] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, Warsaw, Poland; [Buzzachera, Cosme F.] Univ Pavia, Dept Publ Hlth Expt & Forens Med, Pavia, Italy; [Monteiro, Ana Sofia] Univ Porto, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Monteiro, Ana Sofia] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400007	43	Article; Article		
J	Asian-Clemente, Jose A.; Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan; Requena, Bernardo; Galiano, Carlos								External and Internal Loads of Transition Games Are Affected by the Presence of an Opposing Team and Their Initial Positions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				115	126		10.5114/jhk/191850			APR 2025	2025	The objectives of this study were to compare the external and internal loads of transition games (TGs) without the opposition and TGs with different types of the opposition, and to assess their impact on a series of speed and strength tests. The external and internal loads of 18 young professional players (age: 14.79 +/- 0.18 years; body height: 171.9 +/- 6.5 cm; body mass: 62.1 +/- 7.5 kg) were monitored in three TGs: 1 vs. 0 (no opposition; striker vs. goalkeeper), 1 vs. 1Front (defender between the goal and the striker), and 1 vs. 1Behind (defender behind the striker). Peak velocity (PeakV), distance covered (DC) above 24.0 km<middle dot>h-1, 21.0-23.9 km<middle dot>h-1, 18.0-20.9 km<middle dot>h-1, 13.0-17.9 km<middle dot>h-1, accelerations and decelerations above 2.5 m<middle dot>s-2 and below-2.5 m<middle dot>s-2 as well as the rate of perceived exertion (RPE) were obtained. Before and after each TG, vertical jump performance and sprint ability were assessed. PeakV and DC >= 24 km<middle dot>h-1 differed among drills, showing superior outcomes in the 1 vs. 1Behind format. DC 21-23.9 km<middle dot>h-1 showed significant differences among drills, with larger distances covered in the 1 vs. 0 format. The number of accelerations-decelerations was significantly different among drills. RPE response differed among drills, with larger values for 1 vs. 1Behind and 1 vs. 1Front formats. All post tests showed an effect on time response without significant group interaction. The 1 vs. 1Behind and 1 vs. 0 formats induce higher values for high speed, sprint and accelerations than the 1 vs. 1Front format, which shows better performance in decelerations.		[Asian-Clemente, Jose A.; Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan; Requena, Bernardo; Galiano, Carlos] Football Sci Inst, FSI Lab, Granada, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose A.; Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Social & Human Sci, Dept Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Teruel, Spain; [Galiano, Carlos] Univ Loyola Andalucia, Dept Commun & Educ, Seville, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Football Sci Inst, FSI Lab, Granada, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Social & Human Sci, Dept Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Teruel, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400009	34	Article; Article		
J	Dickey, Tom A.; Thompson, Brennan J.; Fisher, Cody M.; Flygare, Tycen W.; Wagner, Dale R.								Post-activation Performance Enhancement Following Maximal Effort, Multi-Joint Isokinetic Eccentric Muscle Actions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				213	223		10.5114/jhk/200324			APR 2025	2025	Post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) is a phenomenon that can enhance muscle performance following maximal or near-maximal muscle actions. While the effects of concentric and isometric conditioning actions on PAPE have been studied, less is known about the influence of eccentric muscle actions. This study investigated the effects of a multi-joint eccentric overload (EOL) protocol on PAPE expressed through countermovement jump (CMJ) height and isokinetic peak force (PF) outcome measures. Twenty-eight recreationally trained participants (18-30 years) completed three visits in a randomized, counterbalanced design. Following familiarization, participants performed either an EOL protocol involving two sets of six maximal isokinetic eccentric actions or a control condition (CON) involving cycling. The CMJ and PF were assessed at baseline and 15 s, 5 min, and 10 min post-exercise. Results showed no significant condition x time interaction or main effect of condition for either CMJ or PF (p > 0.05). However, a significant main effect of time (collapsed across condition) was observed for CMJ (p = 0.019), with post hoc analyses revealing a significantly higher CMJ at 5 min post-exercise compared to 15 s post-exercise (p = 0.037). These findings suggest that this multi-joint eccentric protocol did not effectively elicit PAPE, and therefore may not be optimal for inducing acute performance enhancement. Future research should further elucidate the optimal eccentric loading parameters and muscle action types for inducing PAPE.		[Dickey, Tom A.; Thompson, Brennan J.; Fisher, Cody M.; Flygare, Tycen W.; Wagner, Dale R.] Utah State Univ, Kinesiol & Hlth Sci Dept, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Dickey, Tom A.; Thompson, Brennan J.; Fisher, Cody M.; Flygare, Tycen W.] Utah State Univ, Sorenson Legacy Fdn Ctr Clin Excellence, Movement Res Clin, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Thompson, Brennan J.] Utah State Univ, Kinesiol & Hlth Sci Dept, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Thompson, Brennan J.] Utah State Univ, Sorenson Legacy Fdn Ctr Clin Excellence, Movement Res Clin, Logan, UT 84322 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400016	32	Article; Article		
J	Gawel, Dawid; Trybulski, Robert; Bichowska-Paweska, Marta; Jarosz, Jakub; Kostrzewa, Maciej; Wilk, Michal								Acute Impact of Different Reperfusion Duration Following Blood Flow Restriction on Bar Velocity during the Bench Press Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				141	155		10.5114/jhk/194471			APR 2025	2025	The main goal of this study was to evaluate the effects of different reperfusion duration following intraconditioning blood flow restriction (BFR) on bar velocity during the bench press exercise and muscle viscoelastic properties of the triceps brachii. Eleven resistance trained males (age: 24.3 +/- 4.9 years; body mass: 85.5 +/- 13.2 kg; bench press 1RM: 123.6 +/- 25.4 kg; training experience: 6.8 +/- 5.1 years) volunteered for the study. During the experimental sessions participants performed 5 sets of 3 repetitions of the bench press exercise with a load of 60% 1RM under four different conditions: two BFR (80% AOP) and two control conditions. For the BFR conditions, cuffs were applied before each set for 4.5 min and released 30 or 60 s before the start of the set as reperfusion. Under the control conditions, BFR was not applied and the total duration of rest intervals amounted to 5 min and 5.5 min. Measurements of viscoelastic properties were conducted at baseline and immediately after completion of each set of the bench press exercise. The twoway ANOVA showed no significant condition x set interaction for mean and peak bar velocity (p = 0.93; p = 0.787; accordingly), and no main effect of condition for mean and peak bar velocity (p = 0.57; p = 0.417; accordingly). The Friedman's test showed no differences in oscillation frequency (p = 0.156), stiffness (p = 0.368), and the logarithmic decrement of tissue oscillation (p = 0.644). The results of this study indicate that BFR during rest intervals does not acutely influence mean and peak bar velocity, as well as mechanical properties of the triceps brachii regardless of the duration of reperfusion.		[Gawel, Dawid; Jarosz, Jakub; Kostrzewa, Maciej; Wilk, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Wojciech Korfanty Sch Econ, Dept Med Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Bichowska-Paweska, Marta] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Gawel, Dawid] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400011	42	Article; Article		
J	Ma, Dong; Wang, Ke; Silva, Rui Miguel; Xu, Qi; Zhao, Zijian								A Weekly Session of Jumping Interval Training Effectively Enhances Aerobic, Anaerobic, and Jumping Performance in Aerobic Gymnastics								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				197	211		10.5114/jhk/193536			APR 2025	2025	This study aimed to compare the impact of varying weekly frequencies of jumping interval training (JIT) on aerobic and anaerobic fitness, as well as jumping abilities of youth female athletes specialized in aerobic gymnastics. A randomized controlled study design was conducted spanning 8-week duration, involving 69 youth female athletes (16.3 +/- 1.2 years) specialized in aerobic gymnastics. Participants were allocated into two experimental groups: JITw1 (comprising individuals subjected to JIT once a week), and JITw2 (encompassing individuals undergoing JIT twice a week), alongside a control group. Prior to and post the intervention period, athletes underwent evaluations of their performance through the countermovement jump test (CMJ), a specialized anaerobic assessment personalized for aerobic gymnasts (SAGAT), and a 20-m multistage fitness test. A mixed ANOVA was conducted for statistical analysis. Significant time (baseline and post-intervention) x group (JITw1, JITw2 and control) interactions were found in the SAGAT (p < 0.001), the CMJ (p < 0.001) and the 20-m multistage fitness test (p < 0.001). Post-intervention analysis revealed significantly lower scores in the SAGAT for the control group compared to the JITw2 group (p = 0.003). Significantly higher scores were observed for the JITw2 group in the CMJ test compared to the control group (p = 0.001). Significantly lower scores in the 20-m multistage fitness test were found in the control group compared to the JITw2 and JITw1 groups (both p < 0.001). As conclusion, while additional JIT training once a week may suit for minimal effective training and positive adaptations, training twice a week is advisable when significant improvements are desired.		[Ma, Dong; Xu, Qi; Zhao, Zijian] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomecahn, Gdansk, Poland; [Wang, Ke] Tianjin Univ Sport, Sch Sport Educ, Tianjin, Peoples R China; [Silva, Rui Miguel] Polytech Inst Viana Do Castelo, Sch Sport & Leisure, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Silva, Rui Miguel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Zhao, Zijian] Zhengzhou Univ Headquarters, Sch Phys Educ, Zhengzhou 450040, Henan, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Zijian] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomecahn, Gdansk, Poland; [Zhao, Zijian] Zhengzhou Univ Headquarters, Sch Phys Educ, Zhengzhou 450040, Henan, Peoples R China								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400015	43	Article; Article		
J	Velez-Alcazar, Antonio E.; Garcia-Roca, Juan Alfonso; Vaquero-Cristobal, Raquel								What Variables Differentiate between Selected and Not Selected High-Performance Adolescent Track and Field Athletes?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				263	280		10.5114/jhk/193995			APR 2025	2025	Early detection of young talent and athlete development programs lack reliable and valid indicators that can predict future success. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to analyse the differences between selected and unselected athletes to define the determinant factors, as well as the influence of gender on the variables that could predict athletic success. The research was carried out using a cross-correlational descriptive design involving 95 athletes, of whom 46 were males (average age = 18.31 +/- 2.31 years) and 49 were females (averaged age = 17.27 +/- 1.44 years), and whose sociodemographic, psychological, physical and anthropometric variables were analysed. Significant differences were observed in maturity (p < 0.001), anthropometric variables related to bone structure, muscle mass, and body mass (p < 0.001 to 0.044), physical condition variations related to strength, power, sprint ability, flexibility, and balance (p < 0.001 to 0.013), as well as athletic experience and training variants (p = 0.003-0.004). These results should be taken into account for the sporting programming of young athletes and in order to be aware of the modulating effect of biological maturity and its influence on athletic performance.		[Velez-Alcazar, Antonio E.; Garcia-Roca, Juan Alfonso] Univ Catolica Murcia UCAM, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Garcia-Roca, Juan Alfonso] Univ Catolica Murcia UCAM, Ctr Olymp Studies, Cartagena, Spain; [Vaquero-Cristobal, Raquel] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Res Grp Movement Sci & Sport MS&SPORT, Murcia, Spain; [Garcia-Roca, Juan Alfonso] Univ Catolica Murcia UCAM, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Garcia-Roca, Juan Alfonso] Univ Catolica Murcia UCAM, Ctr Olymp Studies, Cartagena, Spain; [Vaquero-Cristobal, Raquel] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Res Grp Movement Sci & Sport MS&SPORT, Murcia, Spain								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400020	54	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Nuno; Travassos, Bruno; Goncalves, Bruno; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Abade, Eduardo								Effects of Different Post Warm-Up Strategies for Non-Starter Players in Futsal								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				169	181		10.5114/jhk/192789			APR 2025	2025	Futsal warm-ups are crucial pre-match routines designed to enhance players' readiness. However, non-starter players inevitably face longer periods of inactivity. This study aimed to investigate the effects of various post warm-up strategies on physical performance of non-starter players in futsal. Thirteen highly trained male futsal players participated in this study during the in-season period. All players performed three distinct post warm-up strategies over consecutive days: REST, dynamic stretching (DYS), and a combination of plyometrics with change of direction drills (PLY-COD). After performing a standard warm-up, players remained inactive for 10 min, mirroring the traditional time window leading up to the start of the match. Subsequently, post warm-up strategies were implemented. Testing included a countermovement-jump, a reactive strength index, 5-and 10-m sprints, and a 505 COD test. Players were tested 10 min after the conclusion of the warm-up and immediately after the post warm-up strategy. The PLY-COD strategy yielded positive effects across all variables. Running performance improved with small to moderate effect in both sprint (-2.2 +/- 1.9%), (-1.6 +/- 1.7%), and COD (-2.9 +/- 3.5%) tests. Conversely, both DYS and REST strategies had a detrimental impact on running and jumping performances, with this impairment being more pronounced in running following REST strategy, particularly in the 10-m linear sprint (1.4 +/- 1.7%). These results suggest that remaining inactive or exerting limited effort after a warm-up may be detrimental to physical performance of futsal non-starter players. On the other hand, PLY-COD drills could be effective strategies to maintain or even enhance physical performance following the warmup.		[Silva, Nuno; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, ISMAI, Maia, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno; Goncalves, Bruno; Abade, Eduardo] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Sports & Hlth Dept, Hlth & Human Dev, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Abade, Eduardo] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, UTAD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Abade, Eduardo] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, UTAD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Silva, Nuno] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, ISMAI, Maia, Portugal								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400013	32	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Zongwei; Zhang, Xiuli; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								Evaluating the Field 2-Point Method for the Relative Load-Velocity Relationship Monitoring in Free-Weight Back Squats								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				183	195		10.5114/jhk/193975			APR 2025	2025	This study investigated the between-session variability and concurrent validity of the relative load-velocity relationship obtained from different methods during the free-weight back squat. In counterbalanced order, 39 resistancetrained male participants performed two sessions with six different loads (i.e., a multiple-point test) and two sessions with two different loads (i.e., a 2-point test) followed by the actual one-repetition maximum (1RM) attempts. The mean velocity (MV) corresponding to various %1RMs (at every 5% interval from 40 to 90%1RM) was determined through individualized linear regression models using three methods: (i) multiple-point: data of '40, 50, 60, 70, 80, and 90%1RM from the multiple-point test, (ii) non-field 2-point: data of the lightest and heaviest loads from the multiple-point test, and (iii) field 2-point: data of '40 and 90%1RM from the 2-point test. The main findings revealed that the between-session variability of the MVs derived from the %1RM-MV relationships was low (absolute differences = 0.02-0.03 m<middle dot>s-1) and similar (p = 0.074-0.866) across the three methods. Additionally, when compared to the multiple-point method, both the non-field and field 2-point methods showed high correlations (pooled r across all %1RMs = 0.95 +/- 0.01 and 0.72 +/- 0.09, respectively) and small systematic biases (ranging from -0.01 to 0.01 m<middle dot>s-1). Therefore, we recommend that strength and conditioning practitioners use the %1RM-MV relationship, modeled by the field 2-point method, as a quicker and fatiguefree procedure for prescribing the relative load during the free-weight back squat. Specifically, a light load near 40%1RM and a heavy load near 90%1RM are suggested for this method.		[Chen, Zongwei; Zhang, Xiuli] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Chen, Zongwei; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Zhang, Xiuli] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400014	38	Article; Article		
J	Jastrzebski, Zbigniew; Wakuluk-Lewandowska, Dorota; Arslan, Ersan; Kilit, Bulent; Soylu, Yusuf; Radziminski, Lukasz								Effects of Eight-Week Game-Based High-Intensity Interval Training Performed on Different Pitch Dimensions on the Level of Physical Capacity and Time-Motion Responses in Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				157	168		10.5114/jhk/190842			APR 2025	2025	This study aimed to assess the effects of two different pitch dimensions on physical fitness responses and time-motion characteristics in young soccer players during the in-season period. Thirty-nine participants were randomly assigned to two playing areas: a 90 m2 (PD90, n = 19) and a 180 m2 (PD180, n = 20) area per player. During the eight-week soccer-specific high-intensity interval training (HIIT) intervention, both groups performed four bouts of 5-a-side games (SSGs) in two different pitch dimensions of 5 min with 3 min active rest intervals between games. The heart rate (HR), total distance (TD) and distances covered while walking (WLK), jogging (JOG), low-speed running (LSR), highspeed running (HSR), and sprinting (SPR) were recorded during SSGs. Before and after the intervention, the following tests and variables were completed and evaluated: physical work capacity (PWC170), the Wingate anaerobic test, the lactate threshold (LT), 5-m, 20-m, and 30-m sprint tests. Significant between-groups differences were found post-intervention in PWC170 (p = 0.018, ES = 0.15) and the 5-m sprint (p = 0.002, ES = 0.24). Greater playing areas could be more beneficial in developing aerobic fitness, while SSGs on smaller pitch sizes improve the ability of short-distance accelerations.		[Jastrzebski, Zbigniew; Wakuluk-Lewandowska, Dorota; Radziminski, Lukasz] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Physiol, Gdansk, Poland; [Arslan, Ersan; Kilit, Bulent; Soylu, Yusuf] Tokat Gaziosmanpasa Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokat, Turkiye; [Radziminski, Lukasz] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Physiol, Gdansk, Poland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400012	51	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Rodenas, Joaquin; Ferrandis, Jordi; Valdo, Jorge Carril; Claver-Rabaz, Fernando; Ballester, Rafael; Gil-Arias, Alexander								Effects of Different Tactical Formations on Positional Team Behaviors during Small Sided Games in Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				97				237	247		10.5114/jhk/194071			APR 2025	2025	This study explored the impact of different tactical formations (TFs) on positional team behaviors in youth soccer during small sided games (SSGs). Eighteen U19 players participated in 7-a-side SSGs including goalkeepers, alternating between 2-3-1 and 3-1-2 TFs against a consistent opponent in the 3-3 TF. Positional data were collected with WIMU PRO GPS devices (Hudl, USA) to assess collective offensive and defensive dimensions that included teams<acute accent> width, length, height, the stretch index, and the surface area. The Mann-Whitney U test revealed that teams employing a 2-3-1 TF in offensive play exhibited increased height (p < 0.001; ES = 0.206), width (p = 0.006; ES = 0.113), and the surface area (p = 0.023; ES = 0.093) compared to the 3-1-2 TF. Conversely, defending with a 2-3-1 TF increased team height (p < 0.001; ES = 0.287) while decreasing length (p < 0.001; ES = 0.189), the surface area (p = 0.005; ES = 0.161), and the stretch index (p < 0.001; ES = 0.183) compared to the 3-1-2 TF. When attacking against a 2-3-1 TF, the offensive team experienced reduced height (p = 0.007; ES = 0.116) but an increased surface area (p < 0.001; ES = 0.241), width (p < 0.001; ES = 0.378) and the stretch index (p < 0.001; ES = 0.326) compared to the 3-1-2 TF. Finally, defending against a 2-3-1 TF resulted in decreased team length (p < 0.001; ES = 0.205), the surface area (p < 0.001; ES = 0.271) and the stretch index (p < 0.001; ES = 0.205) compared to defending against a 3-1-2 TF. Thus, coaches should acknowledge the significant role of TFs in modulating positional behaviors during SSGs, with relevant pedagogical implications for designing effective training sessions.		[Gonzalez-Rodenas, Joaquin; Ferrandis, Jordi; Valdo, Jorge Carril; Claver-Rabaz, Fernando; Gil-Arias, Alexander] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Sport Sci Res Ctr, Fuenlabrada, Spain; [Ballester, Rafael] Catholic Univ Valencia, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Valencia, Spain; [Gonzalez-Rodenas, Joaquin] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Sport Sci Res Ctr, Fuenlabrada, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001506187400018	37	Article; Article		
J	Puschkasch-Moeck, Sebastian								Muscular Hypertrophy and its Relation to Strength Performance: A Physics-Based Analysis of Conceptual Inaccuracies								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	2			224	229		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000870			APR 2025	2025	The interchangeable use of terms such as muscle mass, volume, cross-sectional area, and thickness in discussions on the physiology of muscle hypertrophy has led to misconceptions in research and practice. This review aims to highlight the improperness of this approach and highlights the overlooked parameter of muscular density (MD). The hypothesis is that muscle density acts as a mediator, leading to inevitable muscle enlargement in long-term strength training. It is proposed that research in muscular adaptations to training should implement measures of MD to complement measurements of muscle size. This article aims to refine the understanding of muscular adaptations and optimize training strategies for athletes and fitness enthusiasts.		[Puschkasch-Moeck, Sebastian] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Hessen, Dept Exercise Sci, Frankfurt, Germany; [Puschkasch-Moeck, Sebastian] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Hessen, Dept Exercise Sci, Frankfurt, Germany								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001458505900005	54	Article; Article		
J	Shay, Ronen								NHL.tv versus ESPN plus : a longitudinal analysis of online blackout strategies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	5			989	1006		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2024-0132			DEC 5 2025	2025	PurposeThis study conceptualizes a typology of online blackout strategies used by NHL streaming video platforms. The proposed framework demonstrates how to use blackouts in a way that mitigates creation of negative brand value, maximizes potential positive brand value and remains financially viable. Factors that led to closing NHL.tv, and whether ESPN+ has remedied these issues are also examined.Design/methodology/approachA mixed-methods approach that combines primary data from content analyses, secondary data from NHL.com and the case study structure is utilized. Repeated cross-sectional content analyses of NHL.tv (2017-2018) and ESPN+ (2023-2024) were conducted to check for online blackouts. Results were compared with NHL.com's blackout detector. Content analysis of customer-initiated tweets @NHLTVSupport was also conducted.FindingsFindings demonstrate high volumes of blackouts related to national licensing (i.e. MVPD) and vertical integration (e.g. NHL Network, ESPN), contradicting blackout policies from marketing materials. Vertically-integrated online blackouts were a primary source of affective brand conflicts for NHL.tv. Blackouts related to regional licensing (e.g. RSN) are more acceptable to consumers.Originality/valueFuture research can use this framework as a baseline for practitioners and academics to develop stronger understanding of online blackout strategies and their implications. The utility of this typology can be tested and improved upon through its application.		[Shay, Ronen] Fordham Univ, Gabelli Sch Business, New York, NY 10023 USA; [Shay, Ronen] Fordham Univ, Gabelli Sch Business, New York, NY 10023 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001455605600001	55	Article; Article		
J	Toyota, Naoki; Matsuoka, Hirotaka; Kang, Taeahn								Examining the antecedent and consequences of relationship quality in the sport business								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	6			84	99		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2024-0221			MAR 28 2025	2025	PurposeThis study examines the role of relationship bonding tactics (RBT) as an antecedent of relationship quality (RQ) in the sport business context and its effect on consumption behavior intentions via RQ.Design/methodology/approachA mixed-methods approach integrating both qualitative and quantitative data was employed. Semi-structured interviews with nine marketers from Super Rugby clubs in Australia and New Zealand explored their RBT usage. An online questionnaire with 337 Super Rugby fans in these regions was analyzed using second-order structural equation modeling.FindingsThe results confirmed the reliability and validity of the RBT scale, establishing RBT as an RQ antecedent. RQ significantly influenced three consumption behavior intentions: game attendance, referral and future intention of remaining a club fan. Moreover, the indirect effect of RBT on consumption behavior intentions via RQ was confirmed.Practical implicationsIdentifying the drivers of RQ and its mediating role on consumption behavior intentions allows marketers to allocate resources efficiently to marketing inputs, achieving organizational goals.Originality/valueThis study extends previous research by establishing RBT as an RQ antecedent in the sport business and clarifying its indirect effect on consumption behavior intentions via RQ.		[Toyota, Naoki] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Toyota, Naoki] Univ Kitakyushu, Kitakyushu, Japan; [Matsuoka, Hirotaka] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Kang, Taeahn] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Matsuoka, Hirotaka] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001461726700001	71	Article; Article		
J	Straub, Rachel K.; Barrack, Adam J.; Cannon, Jordan; Powers, Christopher M.								Targeting the hip and/or knee extensors during the back squat in males and females: A repeated measures decision tree analysis using the relative difference in trunk and tibia inclination and knee flexion angle								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				94	99		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.03.008			MAY 2025	2025	Objective: To determine what combination of relative trunk and tibia inclination and knee flexion biases the hip and knee extensors during the squat. Design: Repeated measures. Setting: University research laboratory. Participants: 16 healthy individuals. Main Outcome Measures: The average hip/knee extensor moment ratio (HKR) was calculated during squat descent, and trunk-tibia inclination difference and knee flexion angle at peak knee flexion. A regression tree for repeated measures determined what combination of trunk-tibia inclination difference and knee flexion angle predicted HKR. Results: HKR was predicted by trunk-tibia inclination difference (primary predictor) and knee flexion (secondary predictor). Four squatting strategies emerged: knee extensor bias (average HKR = 0.3), neutral bias (average HKR = 0.9), hip extensor bias (average HKR = 1.5), and high hip extensor bias (average HKR = 2.2). When trunk inclination exceeded tibia inclination ( >= 2.2 degrees), hip-biased squatting was evident. Squat depth affected only hipbiased squatting: high hip extensor bias at moderate depths (<96 degrees knee flexion), and a less pronounced hip bias at greater depths ( >= 96 degrees knee flexion). Conclusions: Our results provide a framework to bias the squat exercise based on intent. To maximize or minimize hip relative to knee extensor demands, clinicians should be cognizant of the trunk inclination relative to tibia inclination and the influence of knee flexion.		[Straub, Rachel K.; Barrack, Adam J.; Cannon, Jordan; Powers, Christopher M.] Univ Southern Calif, Div Biokinesiol & Phys Therapy, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Powers, Christopher M.] USC Div Biokinesiol & Phys Therapy, 1540 E Alcazar St CHP-155, Los Angeles, CA 90089 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001462472900001	31	Article; Article		
J	Pritchard, N. Stewart; Brandt, Kambrie M.; Peluso, Alexandra G.; Kruse, David W.; Hart, Elspeth; Carr, Heather P.; Bullock, Garrett S.; Miles, Christopher M.; Moore, Justin B.; Stitzel, Joel D.; Urban, Jillian E.								Evaluation of head kinematics experienced during common skill progression pathways in Women's Artistic Gymnastics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2571	2591		10.1080/14763141.2025.2481154			SEP 2 2025	2025	This study aimed to evaluate head kinematics experienced during skill progression pathways in Women's Artistic Gymnastics to inform post-concussion return to gymnastics protocols. A return to gymnastics framework, consisting of seven skill progression pathways, was developed. Twelve gymnasts were instrumented with mouthpiece sensors and performed two trials of each skill, if able. Sensors recorded data at 100 Hz and skill segments were extracted using time-synchronised video. Peak resultant linear (PLA) and rotational acceleration (PRA), rotational velocity change index (Delta RV) and peak resultant rotational velocity (PRV) of 1 Hz low pass filtered data were computed from skills. A mixed effects model evaluated differences in kinematic metrics across skills within pathways while adjusting for random effects of the participant. Stepwise increases in kinematic metrics occurred along backward and forward tumbling (floor) pathways but did not occur in other pathways. For instance, gymnasts experienced greater PLA and PRV during clear hip and back hip circle compared to giant. Moreover, skills performed early along respective pathways (e.g, Yurchenko timer (to back), Tsukahara timer (to back), handstand forward roll) were among the skills with the greatest PRA and Delta RV. Head kinematics associated with skill performance should be considered when developing return to gymnastics protocols.		[Pritchard, N. Stewart; Miles, Christopher M.; Stitzel, Joel D.; Urban, Jillian E.] Wake Forest Univ, Sch Med, Dept Biomed Engn, Winston Salem, NC 27109 USA; [Pritchard, N. Stewart; Stitzel, Joel D.; Urban, Jillian E.] Wake Forest Univ, Sch Biomed Engn & Sci, Virginia Tech, Winston Salem, NC 27109 USA; [Brandt, Kambrie M.] Univ Missouri, Dept Chem & Biomed Engn, Columbia, MO USA; [Peluso, Alexandra G.; Moore, Justin B.] Wake Forest Univ, Sch Med, Dept Implementat Sci, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Kruse, David W.] Cedars Sinai Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed, Primary Care Sports Med Div, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Hart, Elspeth] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Div Sports Med, Waltham, MA USA; [Carr, Heather P.] Ultimate Kids Home Tumblebees, Greensboro, NC USA; [Bullock, Garrett S.] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, Sch Med, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Miles, Christopher M.] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Family & Community Med, Sch Med, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Pritchard, N. Stewart] Wake Forest Univ, Sch Med, Dept Biomed Engn, Winston Salem, NC 27109 USA; [Pritchard, N. Stewart] Wake Forest Univ, Sch Biomed Engn & Sci, Virginia Tech, Winston Salem, NC 27109 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001454330400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Du, James; Popp, Nels; Shapiro, Stephen L.								Enhancing sport sales training through technology: an examination of artificial intelligence as a tool for evaluating and training sales agents								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	4			768	785		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2024-0263			DEC 2 2025	2025	PurposeThe purpose of the current study was to determine whether AI can assist sport managers in the challenging space of salesperson training through the evaluation of interactions with prospective ticket buyers.Design/methodology/approachA total of 397 inside sales calls for a National Basketball Association (NBA) team were transcribed and analyzed. Unsupervised topic modeling was conducted using Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA), a machine learning technique for identifying latent themes or topics within a textual corpus. Additionally, sentiment analysis was conducted using text mining to generate sentiment polarity scores for sales call interactions. Finally, panel analysis through Ridge regression was conducted to assess appropriate model fit across evaluations of sales interactions.FindingsFindings showed that sales agents who use a more diverse vocabulary are more likely to generate positive customer responses and achieve successful sales. Sales representatives who employ a more diverse vocabulary (higher lexical diversity) tend to exhibit positive sentiment polarity. Additionally, a moderate speaking pace contributed to more favorable customer perceptions. Finally, a positive association between the number of questions asked per call and open-ended questions was found, indicating agents who engage in more in-depth questioning strategies are better equipped to gather comprehensive information from customers.Originality/valueGuided by the Technology-Task-Fit theory, the current study examined the role of AI-analysis in assessing sport ticket sales calls and assisting in salesperson training. The current study provides support for the use of AI in sales training through analyzing sales conversations and detecting differences in sales calls among successful and unsuccessful outcomes. These results demonstrate that AI can effectively analyze sales calls and provide evidence-based applicable feedback to sales agents.		[Du, James] Florida State Univ, Dept Sport Management, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Popp, Nels] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Carrboro, NC USA; [Shapiro, Stephen L.] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC USA; [Du, James] Florida State Univ, Dept Sport Management, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001451807600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Karen; Brown, Harry; Guilmette, Sophie; Morelli, Moreno; Lamontagne, Anouk; Robbins, Shawn M.								The effect of sex, skill level and a defender on cutting kinematics in soccer players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2592	2609		10.1080/14763141.2025.2481496			SEP 2 2025	2025	Cutting patterns may be influenced by task complexity and player attributes, ultimately affecting injury risks. This study examines the impact of skill level, sex, and defender conditions on joint kinematics during unanticipated cutting in soccer players. Kinematic data were captured using a three-dimensional motion capture system for 14 competitive and 14 recreational players performing unanticipated sidesteps (45 +/- 10 degrees) under three conditions: no obstacle (NO), static-defender obstacle (SO) and dynamic-defender obstacle (DO). Principal component (PC) analysis and hierarchical linear models examined joint kinematics against sex, skill and defender conditions. For the first component of PC, skill effects revealed greater ankle dorsiflexion angles throughout cutting in competitive players (p = 0.01) than recreational players. DO trials showed lower hip flexion (p = 0.001) and ankle dorsiflexion angles (p = 0.01) than NO. SO trials showed greater hip adduction (p < 0.001) and knee abduction angles (p = 0.04), but lower ankle dorsiflexion angles (p < 0.001) than NO. For PC2, SO trials showed greater hip flexion excursions (p = 0.005) than NO. No sex effects were found. Clearance (participant's distance to the defender) was examined using a three-way analysis of covariance. Greater distances were found in DO by 0.59 m than SO. Differences in cutting patterns highlight potential adaptations to varying defender pressures, providing insights for coaching and prevention programmes.		[Chen, Karen; Robbins, Shawn M.] Lethbridge Layton Mackay Rehabil Ctr, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Chen, Karen; Lamontagne, Anouk; Robbins, Shawn M.] McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Brown, Harry] McGill Univ, McGill Res Ctr Phys Act & Hlth, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Guilmette, Sophie] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Morelli, Moreno] McGill Univ, St Marys Hosp, Fac Med, Div Orthopaed Surg, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Morelli, Moreno] McGill Univ, Fac Med, Dept Surg, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Lamontagne, Anouk] Jewish Rehabil Hosp CISSS Laval, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil, Laval, PQ, Canada; [Lamontagne, Anouk] Jewish Rehabil Hosp CISSS Laval, Feil & Oberfeld Res Ctr, Laval, PQ, Canada; [Chen, Karen] Lethbridge Layton Mackay Rehabil Ctr, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Chen, Karen] McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Montreal, PQ, Canada								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001451849900001	34	Article; Article		
J	Canavire-Bacarreza, Gustavo; Gomez-Toro, Catalina; Urrego, Joaquin A.								Offside Urban Echoes: Exploring the Spatial Dynamics of Soccer and Crime in Medellin								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	5			589	623		10.1177/15270025251328251			JUN 2025	2025	The emotions elicited by soccer matches, combined with the large crowds they draw, create an environment conducive to criminal activity. This article examines how significant sporting events, such as soccer matches, influence various types of crime in Medellin, a city historically associated with high crime rates. We use a spatial difference-in-differences approach, alongside a policy change that imposed stricter access controls to the stadium, to assess soccer matches' spatial and temporal impacts on crime. Our findings reveal large heterogeneity across different types of crime, spatial reach, and temporal displacements. Physical altercations and auto theft are the most responsive to sporting events, effects that are mitigated after the implementation of stricter attendance regulations.		[Canavire-Bacarreza, Gustavo] World Bank, Poverty & Equ Global Practice, Washington, DC USA; [Canavire-Bacarreza, Gustavo] Univ Privada Boliviana, La Paz, Bolivia; [Gomez-Toro, Catalina] Univ Eafit, Medellin, Colombia; [Urrego, Joaquin A.] Univ Calif Berkeley, Berkeley, CA USA; [Canavire-Bacarreza, Gustavo] World Bank, Washington, DC 20433 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001451961300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Rabello, Rodrigo; Desai, Gauri A.; Sforza, Chiarella; Gruber, Allison H.								Running stiffness and spatiotemporal parameters are similar between non-runners and runners with different experience levels								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2556	2570		10.1080/14763141.2025.2480094			SEP 2 2025	2025	Spatiotemporal parameters and leg and joint stiffness are variables that represent the fundamental dynamics of running. Therefore, these variables may effectively differentiate between less-experienced and more-experienced runners' gait, possibly addressing differing injury rates between populations. We compared stiffness and spatiotemporal parameters between runners with different experience levels, including a group with no previous running experience. Healthy physically active participants (22.1 +/- 3.6y) were divided into three groups, according to experience: experienced (running >1-year, 14-48 km/week; n = 23, 9F), novice (running <1-year, 5-21 km/week; n = 15, 4F) and non-runners (no running for the past 5 years; n = 17, 7F). Three-dimensional motion capture and force plates measured gait mechanics during overground running at 3.35 m<middle dot>s(-1). Knee, ankle and three-dimensional leg stiffness, contact time, flight time and step length were compared between groups using independent-measures ANCOVA (covariate = sex). No biomechanical variable was significantly different between the groups (leg: p = 0.652, Hedges' g = 0.09-0.17; ankle: p = 0.439, g = 0.07-0.19; knee: p = 0.153, g = 0.13-0.29; contact time: p = 0.592, g = 0.06-0.24; flight time: p = 0.513, g = 0.03-0.40; step length: p = 0.107, g = 0.26-0.61). Stiffness and spatiotemporal parameters were not different between runners with greater than 1-year of experience when compared to runners with less than 1-year experience and non-runners. Therefore, running gait may not differentially affect injury rates between experience levels.		[Rabello, Rodrigo; Desai, Gauri A.; Gruber, Allison H.] Indiana Univ, Sch Publ Hlth Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Rabello, Rodrigo; Sforza, Chiarella] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Rabello, Rodrigo] Queen Mary Univ London, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England; [Desai, Gauri A.] Univ Maryland, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Kinesiol, College Pk, MD USA; [Gruber, Allison H.] Indiana Univ, Sch Publ Hlth Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001451172000001	48	Article; Article		
J	Nasser, Galila; Deutscher, Christian								Battle of the Sexes Over Fans-Is Men's Soccer a Substitute for Women's Soccer?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	5			624	643		10.1177/15270025251328279			JUN 2025	2025	Attendance in women's soccer is on the rise in Europe, making it the most-watched women's team sport. Without massive financial backing from TV contracts, economic success heavily depends on ticket revenue. As women's matches are typically played on weekends, clubs face competition from men's soccer over fans' interest and potentially stadium attendance. Covering data from ten seasons in Germany's Women's Federal League (Frauen-Bundesliga), this article empirically tests if overlaps with men's soccer games have any adverse demand on women's soccer games.		[Nasser, Galila; Deutscher, Christian] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Bielefeld, Germany; [Nasser, Galila] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Bielefeld, Germany								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001451184500001	42	Article; Article		
J	Mcdaniel, Cole; Meehan, Brian; Stephenson, E. Frank								Should I Stay or Should I Go? The Effect of NIL and Transfer Rule Changes on College Basketball Players Entering the NBA Draft								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	5			543	561		10.1177/15270025251328254			JUN 2025	2025	We examine the impact of name, image, and likeness (NIL) opportunities and changes in transfer rules on the NBA draft decisions of men's college basketball players. The National Collegiate Athletic Association's 2021 liberalization of NIL and transfer eligibility rules enhanced college athletes' earning potential, thereby possibly influencing their draft entry decisions. Analyzing college players among the top 100 prospects for each draft year between 2019 and 2024, we find that, following the NIL and transfer rule changes, more college players chose to forgo the draft and use the remaining collegiate eligibility. Our findings show a larger impact on players projected to be drafted outside of the first round and that the effect of the NIL and transfer rule changes has grown over time.		[Mcdaniel, Cole; Meehan, Brian; Stephenson, E. Frank] Berry Coll, Campbell Sch Business, 2277 Martha Berry Hwy NW, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA; [Meehan, Brian] Berry Coll, Campbell Sch Business, 2277 Martha Berry Hwy NW, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001451175800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Anagnostopoulos, Christos; Rahman, Sumaya Abdul; Rizvi, Syeda Warisha Fatima; Mamo, Yoseph								Leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) for data collection and analysis: the case of and application in corporate social responsibility (CSR) through sport research								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	4			803	822		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2024-0261			DEC 2 2025	2025	Purpose-This paper aims to provide industry insights by utilizing advanced natural language processing (NLP) techniques to extract and analyze how companies listed on the Qatar Stock Exchange (QSE) report their corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives related to sport. Furthermore, it compares these findings to mainstream CSR outcomes within the sport management literature, offering a nuanced perspective by leveraging a longitudinal dataset and focusing on industries operating in the Middle East. Design/methodology/approach-This study automates information retrieval by integrating the generative pre-trained transformer (GPT-4), a large language model from OpenAI, with LangChain. We gathered annual reports for all companies listed on the QSE from 2006 to 2022, which spans seven sectors and 46 companies. The reports, available in PDF format, were sourced directly from the companies' official websites and systematically organized by year to streamline the analysis process. Findings-Between 2006 and 2022, companies listed on the QSE reported a total of 672 "CSR through sport" initiatives. This overall upward trend indicates a growing focus on CSR within the sports sector. Originality/value-This research contributes by introducing a collaborative human-AI framework that provides an innovative method for analyzing how listed companies incorporate "CSR through sport" in their official, publicly accessible communications.		[Anagnostopoulos, Christos; Rahman, Sumaya Abdul] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Div Engn Management & Decis Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Rizvi, Syeda Warisha Fatima] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Doha, Qatar; [Mamo, Yoseph] Old Dominion Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Norfolk, VA USA; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Div Engn Management & Decis Sci, Doha, Qatar								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001449757900001	83	Article; Article		
J	da Costa, Guilherme V.; Mentiplay, Benjamin F.; King, Matthew G.; Kemp, Joanne L.; Crossley, Kay M.; Coburn, Sally L.; Jones, Denise M.; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Pazzinatto, Marcella F.; Johnston, Richard T. R.; Scholes, Mark J.								Running biomechanics in people with femoroacetabular impingement syndrome: A cross-sectional analysis of sex differences and relationships with patient reported outcome measures								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				69	76		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.02.002			MAR 2025	2025	Objectives(i) Investigate if lower-limb running biomechanics differ between women and men with femoroacetabular impingement syndrome, and (ii) explore whether sex-specific relationships between lower-limb running biomechanics and symptom severity and sport-related concerns exist. Design Cross-sectional. Setting Gait laboratory. Participants Twenty women and 22 men enrolled in a clinical trial of physiotherapist-led treatments for femoroacetabular impingement syndrome. Main outcome measures Kinematics and kinetics of hip, knee, and ankle joints during the stance phase (calculated from three-dimensional biomechanics data) were compared using statistical parametric mapping. The International Hip Outcome Tool-33 and Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcomes Score quantified hip-related symptom severity and sport-related concerns. Results Women had larger hip adduction angles (34%-44% of stance,p = 0.045) than men. For kinetics, women displayed larger external hip extension moments (77%-100%,p = 0.001), smaller knee extension moments (80%-100%,p = 0.007), and smaller ankle dorsiflexion moments (26%-67%,p < 0.001) than men. Worse sport-related concern was associated with a larger peak hip extension angle (0.18, 95%CI 0.05,0.31) and smaller hip flexion moment impulse (0.14 & lowast;10(-2), 95% CI 0.02 & lowast;10(-2),0.25 & lowast;10(-2)) in women, and smaller hip external rotation moment impulse in men (0.06 & lowast;10(-2), 95% CI 0.01 & lowast;10(-2),0.11 & lowast;10(-2)). Conclusions Women and men with FAI syndrome display differences in lower-limb running biomechanics and relationships between symptom severity and running biomechanics are sex-dependent, warranting consideration in future analyses.		[da Costa, Guilherme V.] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Ctr Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Florianopolis, Brazil; [da Costa, Guilherme V.; Mentiplay, Benjamin F.; Kemp, Joanne L.; Crossley, Kay M.; Coburn, Sally L.; Jones, Denise M.; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Pazzinatto, Marcella F.; Johnston, Richard T. R.; Scholes, Mark J.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Mentiplay, Benjamin F.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [King, Matthew G.; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Scholes, Mark J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Discipline Physiotherapy, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Scholes, Mark J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Discipline Physiotherapy, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001428647600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Lopes, Lucas Rafael; Machado, Daniel Escorsim; Goes, Rodrigo Araujo; Amaral, Marcus Vinicius Galvao; Dias, Francisca; Tavares, Valeria; Medeiros, Rui; Perini, Jamila Alessandra								Implications of tendinopathy on the sports career: Epidemiological and clinical profile of high-performance athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				59	68		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.02.003			MAR 2025	2025	Objective: To identify the prevalence of tendinopathy and describe the predictive factors of condition and chronic tendon pain in high-performance athletes. Design: Cross-sectional observational study. Setting: Sports training centers and competitions. Participants: Federated high-performance athletes. Main outcome measures: Tendinopathy and chronic tendon pain. Results: Out of all recruited athletes, 30.6% had a confirmed diagnosis of tendinopathy. Tendinopathy prevalence was 36.5% in athletes with extremely high training exposure index (TEI), compared to 21.9% in those with low TEI (p = 0.03). There was a significant difference in the prevalence of tendinopathy sites between the sport modalities, TEI classification and sex. Almost 60% had chronic tendon pain, 48% had required a break from training, and 19% reported that the condition affected two or more tendons. Being older than 25 years (OR = 3.5; 95%CI = 2.0-6.2), female sex (OR:0.5; 95%CI:0.3-0.9) and receiving nutritional guidance (OR:1.7; 95% CI:1.3-2.4) were identified as factors associated with tendinopathy. Protection from chronic tendon pain was associated with male sex (OR:0.6; 95%CI:0.3-0.9) and nutritional guidance (OR:0.5; 95%CI:0.3-0.9). Conclusion: This study reports the difference of tendinopathy prevalence according to sexes stratified by TEI classification. Chronic tendon pain was associated with female sex, lack of nutritional guidance, and more than three episodes of condition manifestation.		[Lopes, Lucas Rafael; Machado, Daniel Escorsim; Perini, Jamila Alessandra] State Univ Rio de Janeiro UERJ, Res Lab Pharmaceut Sci LAPESF, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Lopes, Lucas Rafael] Oswald Cruz Fdn Fiocruz, Natl Sch Publ Hlth, Program Postgrad Publ Hlth & Environm, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Goes, Rodrigo Araujo; Amaral, Marcus Vinicius Galvao] Inst Nacl Traumatol & Ortopedia, Res Div, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Goes, Rodrigo Araujo] Lisbon Med Univ, Lisbon, Portugal; [Dias, Francisca; Tavares, Valeria; Medeiros, Rui] Portuguese Oncol Inst Porto IPO Porto, Porto Comprehens Canc Ctr Porto CCC, Mol Oncol & Viral Pathol Grp, Res Ctr IPO Porto CI IPOP,Pathol & Lab Med Dept,Cl, P- 4200072 Porto, Portugal; [Tavares, Valeria; Medeiros, Rui] Univ Porto FMUP, Fac Med, P-4200072 Porto, Portugal; [Tavares, Valeria; Medeiros, Rui] Abel Salazar Inst Biomed Sci ICBAS, P-4050313 Porto, Portugal; [Medeiros, Rui] Portuguese League Canc NRNorte, Res Dept, P-4200172 Porto, Portugal; [Medeiros, Rui] Fernando Pessoa Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, P-4200150 Porto, Portugal; [Perini, Jamila Alessandra] State Univ Rio De Janeiro UERJ, Ave Manuel Caldeira Alvarenga 1-203, BR-23070200 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001427807600001	28	Article; Article		
J	Hoeschler, Lucas; Halmich, Christina; Schranz, Christoph; Fritz, Julian; Cigoja, Sasa; Ullrich, Martin; Koelewijn, Anne D.; Schwameder, Hermann								Wearable-based estimation of continuous 3D knee moments during running using a convolutional neural network								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	3			391	409		10.1080/14763141.2025.2481164			MAR 4 2026	2026	This study aimed to develop and validate a machine learning method to estimate continuous 3D knee moments during running from wearable sensor data. Reference knee moments were calculated from 19 recreational runners during treadmill running at varying slopes (0 +/- 5 % incline), speeds (self-selected +/- 1 km/h) and in 3 types of footwear. A convolutional neural network was trained on data from 7 inertial measuring units (feet, shanks, thighs, sacrum) and a pair of pressure insoles. We assessed performance over continuous time windows (CONT) and during stance phases (PHSS) by intraclass-correlation (ICC), normalised root mean squared error (nRMSE), and statistical parametric mapping. The agreement levels in the sagittal plane were good to excellent (ICC: 0.84-0.98), with low errors (nRMSE: 0.05-0.11). However, accuracy was lower for non-sagittal estimations (frontal ICC: 0.19-0.90, nRMSE: 0.08-0.23; transverse ICC: 0.72-0.94, nRMSE: 0.07-0.17). Accuracy decreased across all planes during PHSS. The proposed approach yields similar or better accuracy compared to previous work while requiring less preprocessing. It provides a viable method for wearable-based assessment of running kinetics in near real-time. Additional data and methods to address inter-individual variability could improve its precision in assessing frontal plane injury risk factors.		[Hoeschler, Lucas; Schwameder, Hermann] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Hallein, Austria; [Halmich, Christina] Univ Salzburg, Dept Artificial Intelligence & Human Interfaces, Salzburg, Austria; [Halmich, Christina; Schranz, Christoph] Salzburg Res Forschungsgesellschaft mbH, Human Mot Analyt Res Grp, Salzburg, Austria; [Fritz, Julian; Cigoja, Sasa; Ullrich, Martin] Adidas AG, Innovat, Herzogenaurach, Germany; [Koelewijn, Anne D.] Friedrich Alexander Univ Erlangen Nurnberg, Dept Elect Engn, Erlangen, Germany; [Hoeschler, Lucas] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Hallein, Austria								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001451059100001	58	Article; Article		
J	Won, Doyeon; Chiu, Weisheng; Bravo, Gonzalo A.								Psychological collectivism, felt obligation, affective commitment, and retention intention among coaches: Symmetric and asymmetric modeling approaches<break/>								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1350	1365		10.1177/17479541251320220			AUG 2025	2025	The current study investigates the determinants of retention intentions among coaches. The study focuses on the effects of individual factors, namely psychological collectivism, felt obligation, and affective commitment, on retention intention and configurational combinations of individual factors causing high retention intention among coaches in Taiwan. Data were collected from 200 Taiwanese coaches through a questionnaire and subjected to partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) while complemented with fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis (fsQCA). The results of symmetric analysis (PLS-SEM) show that psychological collectivism positively influences felt obligation and affective commitment and indirectly influences retention intention through felt obligation and affective commitment, whereas both felt obligation and affective commitment are significantly associated with retention intention among Taiwanese coaches. The results of asymmetric analysis (fsQCA) provide five configurational models that explain the high levels of retention intentions, while felt obligation and affective commitment are found as necessary conditions in all five models. Meanwhile, psychological collectivism's four out of five sub-dimensions are considered both core and peripheral conditions depending on configurations, somewhat contrary to the prior studies. Most interestingly, the absence of goal priority, one of psychological collectivism's sub-dimensions, is considered a core condition for four of the five identified solutions. As such, fsQCA may allow us to capture the complex casualty that symmetric modeling may not capture. The complementary analysis between symmetric and asymmetric findings provides more insightful information about the effects of psychological collectivism, felt obligations, and affective commitment on retention intentions.		[Won, Doyeon] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Dept Kinesiol, Corpus Christi, TX USA; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Bravo, Gonzalo A.] West Virginia Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Morgantown, WV USA; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001449236800001	73	Article; Article		
J	Ferreira, Shalima Figueiredo Chaves Coelho; Bezerra, Marcio Almeida; de Oliveira, Rodrigo Ribeiro; Lima, Pedro Olavo de Paula								Effectiveness of adding Dynamic Tape® to progressive tendon-load exercise program in patients with patellar tendinopathy: A randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				86	93		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.03.005			MAY 2025	2025	Objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of adding Dynamic Tape (R) to a progressive load exercise program in patients with patellar tendinopathy. Design: Randomized controlled trial. Setting: University research. Participants: Forty-eight subjects with patellar tendinopathy. Methods: Participants were divided into two groups: dynamic group, which received progressive load exercises and Dynamic Tape (R), and sham group, which received progressive load exercises and sham taping. The intervention was conducted three times per week over 12 weeks. Main outcome measures: The pain during decline squatting was assessed using a visual analog scale. The severity of patellar tendinopathy was measured using the Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment-Patella (VISA-P). Results: There was no effect of group-time interaction for the pain (Z = 0.844, p = 0.472) or severity (Z = 1.275, p = 0.286) of patellar tendinopathy. Reduced pain and severity were observed over time (p < 0.05), however there was no between-group differences (p > 0.05). Conclusion: Dynamic Tape (R) does not provide additional benefits when combined with a progressive load exercise program for reducing pain and severity in patellar tendinopathy.		[Ferreira, Shalima Figueiredo Chaves Coelho; Bezerra, Marcio Almeida; de Oliveira, Rodrigo Ribeiro; Lima, Pedro Olavo de Paula] Univ Fed Ceara, Masters Program Physiotherapy & Functioning, 1127 Coronel Nunes Melo St Rodolfo Teofilo Poranga, BR-60430275 Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Ferreira, Shalima Figueiredo Chaves Coelho] Univ Fed Ceara, Masters Program Physiotherapy & Functioning, 1127 Coronel Nunes Melo St Rodolfo Teofilo Poranga, BR-60430275 Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001468036000001	31	Article; Article		
J	Perron, Edouard; Hu, Min								Homegrown Heroes: The Impact of Locally Born Hockey Players on Attendance and Revenue in the National Hockey League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	4			427	453		10.1177/15270025251323832			MAY 2025	2025	This study examines the impact of locally born players on team attendance and revenue in the National Hockey League (NHL). Using data from 31 NHL teams from 2005 to 2018, the study employs a refined definition of locally born players and explores alternative definitions to ensure robustness. Each additional locally born player completing a full season is associated with an increase in home game attendance by approximately 12,000 spectators and $4.8 million in additional revenue. These effects are consistent across geographic regions, including traditional and non-traditional hockey markets. The findings underscore the value of investing and promoting local talent, particularly for teams with lower attendance levels. By fostering stronger community connections and regional loyalty, locally born players enhance team identity, boost fan engagement, and increase game demand. This study provides actionable insights for team management and marketing while advancing the understanding of fan demand dynamics in professional hockey.		[Perron, Edouard] Univ British Columbia, Sauder Sch Business, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Hu, Min] Univ British Columbia, Dept Econ, Philosophy & Polit Sci, Kelowna, BC, Canada; [Hu, Min] Univ British Columbia Okanagan, Dept Econ Philosophy & Polit Sci, 1147 Res Rd, Kelowna, BC V1V 1V7, Canada								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001449174300001	35	Article; Article		
J	Mei, Nan; Jiang, Zhende; Kurokawa, Hiroaki; Ueno, Yuki; Liu, Hengyu; Zou, Jiaming; Fu, Lijuan; Taniguchi, Akira; Tanaka, Yasuhito; Wang, Yinan; Chang, Fei								Recurrent sprains of chronic ankle instability with chronic syndesmotic injury are primarily correlated with plantarflexion instability and multisensory deficits								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				77	85		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.03.004			MAY 2025	2025	Objective: To investigate postural control deficits and their correlation with recurrent ankle sprains in patients with both chronic ankle instability (CAI) and chronic syndesmotic injury (CSI). Design: Cross-sectional design. Setting: Motion laboratory and Orthopedic department. Participants: 73 individuals with CAI and 15 healthy controls Main outcome measures: Patients with CAI were divided into a CAI group (isolated CAI) and a CSI group (CAI with CSI) based on arthroscopic findings. Postural control was evaluated using the Sensory Organization Test, Adaptability Test, and Romberg Test. Results: The CSI group had significantly lower somatosensory, visual, and vestibular scores and higher visual dependency compared to CAI group and controls (p < 0.05-0.001). CSI groups showed higher sway energy than the CAI in the plantarflexion sway (p < 0.05). Correlation analysis indicated strong associations between sprain incidence and plantarflexion sway energy (r = 0.68, p < 0.001), VAS scores (r = 0.54, p < 0.001), and somatosensory deficits (r = -0.43, p < 0.001). The AUC for the logistic regression model was 0.906, indicating excellent model performance (p < 0.001). Conclusions: Our results found that plantarflexion instability of the CSI correlates most strongly with the risk of ankle sprains, despite coexisting multisensory deficits. Hence, rehabilitation should address these deficits, pain management and targeted training.		[Mei, Nan; Jiang, Zhende; Liu, Hengyu; Chang, Fei] Jilin Univ, Orthopaed Med Ctr, Hosp 2, Changchun, Jilin, Peoples R China; [Mei, Nan; Kurokawa, Hiroaki; Ueno, Yuki; Taniguchi, Akira; Tanaka, Yasuhito] Nara Med Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Nara, Japan; [Mei, Nan; Fu, Lijuan] Jilin Sport Univ, Changchun, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yinan] Jilin Univ, Div Clin Res, Hosp 1, Changchun, Jilin, Peoples R China; [Zou, Jiaming] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Nishitokyo 2020021, Japan; [Chang, Fei] Jilin Univ, Orthopaed Med Ctr, Hosp 2, Changchun, Jilin, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yinan] Jilin Univ, Div Clin Res, Hosp 1, Changchun, Jilin, Peoples R China								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001452290600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Gnagey, Matthew; La Parra-Perez, Alvaro								From Madrid to Mecca: Wage Premiums in a Specialized Labor Market								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	4			454	496		10.1177/15270025251324934			MAY 2025	2025	We estimate a 400% wage premium for football players transferring from top European leagues to Saudi Arabia in the summer of 2023 compared to those with similar observable characteristics transferring to different clubs within the same leagues. The results are robust to using propensity score matching and other specifications addressing endogeneity. Our analysis does not find evidence for culture driving the premium. Instead, it may be driven by several disamenities, including reputation concerns over Saudi Arabia's human rights record, lower-quality competition, and reduced global media exposure.		[Gnagey, Matthew; La Parra-Perez, Alvaro] Weber State Univ, Dept Econ, Ogden, UT USA; [Gnagey, Matthew] Weber State Univ, John B Goddard Sch Business & Econ, Dept Econ, 1337 Edvalson St, Ogden, UT 84408 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001451211700001	45	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Henry; Sarker, Arnab; Hosoi, Anette								The Effect of Basketball Analytics Investment on National Basketball Association (NBA) Team Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	6			668	688		10.1177/15270025251328264			AUG 2025	2025	In the National Basketball Association (NBA), basketball data and analytics is an area of significant financial investment for all 30 franchises, despite there being little quantitative evidence demonstrating analytics adoption actually improves team-level performance. This study seeks to measure the return on investment of analytics on NBA team success in a time of great demand for analytical front office personnel. Using a two-way fixed effects modeling approach, we identify the causal effect of analytics department headcounts on regular season wins using 12 years of season-level data for each team. We find a positive and statistically significant effect, suggesting clubs that invest more in analytics tend to outperform competitors when controlling for roster characteristics, injuries, difficulty of schedule, and team-specific and time-specific effects. This research contributes to the body of literature affirming the value of data analytics for organizational performance and supports current investments in analytics being made by NBA teams.		[Wang, Henry; Sarker, Arnab; Hosoi, Anette] MIT, Inst Data Syst & Soc, Cambridge, MA 02139 USA; [Wang, Henry] MIT, Inst Data Syst & Soc, Cambridge, MA 02139 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001449221600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Travers, Nigel; Murphy, Myles C.; Wand, Benedict M.; Kirwan, Paul; Travers, Mervyn; Debenham, James; Gibson, William; Hince, Dana								The Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment - Achilles is fundamentally flawed and unfit for clinical practice or research: A Rasch Measurement Theory Analysis using COSMIN recommendations								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				68	76		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.03.002			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: Evaluate structural validity, hypothesis testing and measurement invariance of the Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment-Achilles (VISA-A) using Rasch analysis to determine if it can be recommended to measure Achilles tendinopathy severity. Methods: We performed an evaluation of the VISA-A measurement properties using Rasch Measurement Theory by pooling individual participant data from previously conducted studies (n = 217). Structural validity was assessed via threshold/category mean order; adequate item fit; unidimensionality; local dependence; internal consistency. Hypothesis testing was assessed via divergent validity. Measurement invariance assessed via differential item functioning. Results: The VISA-A has inadequate construct validity. This is evident from issues with item 8 and insufficient threshold order, item fit, borderline internal consistency and measurement invariance, with item response being influenced by both age and BMI. Conclusion: The VISA-A has inadequate structural validity, borderline internal consistency and poor measurement invariance. Thus, the VISA-A does not meet with COSMIN criteria for construct validity due to issues with structural validity and measurement invariance. Thus, the VISA-A cannot be recommended for use, and should not be used in clinical practice or research. However, if the VISA-A has been used, analysis using only items 1-6, with responses collapsed into a 4-point scale provides the best structural validity.		[Travers, Nigel; Murphy, Myles C.; Wand, Benedict M.; Travers, Mervyn; Debenham, James; Gibson, William] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Murphy, Myles C.] Edith Cowan Univ, Nutr & Hlth Innovat Res Inst, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Kirwan, Paul] Trinity Coll Dublin, Sch Med, Dept Physiotherapy, Dublin, Ireland; [Debenham, James] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Majarlin Kimberley Ctr Remote Hlth, Broome, WA, Australia; [Hince, Dana] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Inst Hlth Res, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Wand, Benedict M.] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001450228100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Dinc, Halime; Phantumabamrung, Paak; Cevik, Huseyin; Gurbuz, Bulent; Yesiltepe, Barkin Serhat; Argan, Metin; Zhang, James J.								How does the adoption of ChatGPT influence soccer betting? A reasoned action perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	4			748	767		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2024-0254			DEC 2 2025	2025	PurposeThe purpose of this study was to examine the impact of ChatGPT adoption on consumers' soccer betting behavior, with a particular focus on behavioral intention and word of mouth, by applying the technology acceptance model (TAM) and the theory of reasoned action (TRA).Design/methodology/approachA cross-sectional survey design was employed to collect data from 418 soccer bettors in Eskisehir, T & uuml;rkiye. The study utilized a structured questionnaire with validated measures adapted to the context of ChatGPT adoption in soccer betting. Structural equation modeling was conducted to test the hypothesized relationships among the constructs.FindingsThe findings revealed that perceived ease of use significantly influenced both perceived usefulness and attitude, while perceived usefulness also positively affected attitude. Attitude and subjective norms emerged as strong predictors of behavioral intention. Interestingly, perceived usefulness did not directly affect behavioral intention but instead exerted an indirect effect through attitude as the mediator. Additionally, word of mouth was significantly influenced by subjective norms and behavioral intention, highlighting the importance of social influence in promoting ChatGPT adoption within the soccer betting community.Originality/valueTheoretically, this study extends the application of TAM and TRA by examining behavioral intention and word of mouth in the context of AI adoption, specifically ChatGPT, among soccer bettors. Practically, the findings provide valuable insights for AI developers, offering actionable strategies to enhance user adoption and effectively promote AI innovations within the rapidly evolving soccer betting market.		[Dinc, Halime] Afyon Kocatepe Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Afyonkarahisar, Turkiye; [Phantumabamrung, Paak; Zhang, James J.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA USA; [Phantumabamrung, Paak] Thammasat Univ, Bangkok, Thailand; [Cevik, Huseyin] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Recreat, Eskisehir, Turkiye; [Gurbuz, Bulent] Ankara Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Ankara, Turkiye; [Yesiltepe, Barkin Serhat; Argan, Metin] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Sports Management, Eskisehir, Turkiye; [Cevik, Huseyin] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Recreat, Eskisehir, Turkiye								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001444893300001	68	Article; Article		
J	Zentai, Benedek; Toka, Laszlo								Performance analysis in SailGP: A machine learning approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1207	1225		10.1177/17479541251319968			JUN 2025	2025	The significance of data analysis in high-performance sports has largely increased in recent years, offering opportunities for further exploration using machine learning techniques. SailGP is a relatively new sailing event driven by a passion for speed and innovation. The racing series brings excitement and thrill to the world of sailing that has been relatively unexplored. As a pioneer work in the academic community, our work showcases the power of data-driven approaches in enhancing performance and decision-making at high-performance sailing events. We explore data mining techniques on datasets collected at high-performance sailing events in Bermuda in 2021 and Italy in 2023. By analysing race data, the study aims to gain insights into the relationship between variables such as wind speed, wind direction, foil usage, and daggerboard adjustments, and their impact on boat speed. For a comprehensive understanding, we used three distinct methodologies. Various prediction models, including Gradient Boosting, Random Forest, and a stacked model, were employed and evaluated using performance metrics like R-2 score and mean squared error. The results demonstrate the models' ability to accurately predict boat speed. Anomaly detection techniques examined boat stability, adding a new chapter to the research. Additionally, we introduced a reinforcement learning approach to identify optimal settings for speed enhancement, representing another new dimension of the study. These findings refine race strategies, optimise sail and rudder settings, and improve performance in SailGP races. Future plans include collaborating with SailGP to work with larger datasets and integrate models into live racing scenarios.		[Zentai, Benedek; Toka, Laszlo] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Budapest, Hungary; [Toka, Laszlo] HUN REN BME Cloud Applicat Res Grp, Budapest, Hungary; [Zentai, Benedek] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Dept Telecommun & Artificial Intelligence, H-1111 Budapest, Hungary								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001446014200001	26	Article; Article		
J	Kamitani, Aguri; Tsukahara, Yuka; Rizzone, Katherine H.								Gender trends at the annual meetings of two major Japanese societies of sports medicine: a 17-year summary of annual meeting moderators and speakers								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	5			383	388		10.1080/00913847.2025.2477978			SEP 3 2025	2025	Objectives To assess for gender disparity among invited moderators and speakers at two major sports medicine conferences in Japan. Methods The moderators and invited speakers of the Japanese Society of Clinical Sports Medicine (JSCSM) (2008-2023) and the Japanese Orthopaedic Society for Sports Medicine (JOSSM) (2007-2023) were categorized by gender. Gender was determined by searching the Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare physician website and then confirmed using a Google search. Fisher's exact tests were used to evaluate the gender distribution. Cochran-Armitage trend tests were used to evaluate changes in gender distribution over time. Results In the past 17 years, neither JSCSM or JOSSM had a woman moderator or speaker in Program Chair's lectures. Between 2018 and 2023, the number of women moderators (n = 59) at JSCSM conference was 1.41% of the total women members (n = 4177), which is significantly lower than 2.22% men moderators (n = 544) out of total men membership (n = 24397), (p < .001). Between 2007 and 2023, the number of women moderators (n = 28) at JOSSM was 1.82% of the total women members (n = 1536), which is significantly lower than 5.91% men who were moderators (n = 1809) out of the total membership of men (n = 30595), (p < 0.001). Since 2008, there was an 11.4% increase in women moderators at JSCSM conferences (1.9% in 2008 to 13.3% in 2023, p-value for trend < 0.001), with a more modest increase of 2.3% at JOSSM conferences (0% in 2007 to 2.3% in 2023, p-value for trend < 0.001). There were similar increases in women invited speakers for JSCSM (14.1% in 2008 to 16.9% in 2023, p-value for trend = 0.001) and for JOSSM (1.2% in 2007 to 3.7% in 2023, p-value for trend = 0.04). Conclusion Although both Japanese orthopedic sports medical societies showed increasing trends in the percentage of women in prominent speaking roles, women speakers and moderators are still rare at the Japanese sports conferences.		[Kamitani, Aguri] Japan Community Hlth Care Org, Kyoto Kuramaguchi Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped, 27 Koyamashimofusacho, Kyoto 603815, Japan; [Tsukahara, Yuka] Tokyo Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports Med, Tokyo, Japan; [Rizzone, Katherine H.] Univ Rochester, Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed, Rochester, MN USA; [Kamitani, Aguri] Japan Community Hlth Care Org, Kyoto Kuramaguchi Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped, 27 Koyamashimofusacho, Kyoto 603815, Japan								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001445936100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Arslan, Esma; Ercan, Sabriye								The effect of menstrual cycle phase changes on error scores in sportive movements in female athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	5			376	382		10.1080/00913847.2025.2477977			SEP 3 2025	2025	Objectives There are complex relationships between hormonal fluctuations associated with the menstrual cycle and various health and sports performance aspects. This study aimed to determine to what extent different menstrual cycle phases associated with a change in error scores in jumping and cutting movements, flexibility, and knee joint laxity values in female athletes. Methods Participants were evaluated in the menstruation and ovulation phases of the menstrual cycle. Blood tests were performed from venous blood drawn between 8:00 and 8:30 am, after 12 hours of fasting. LH, FSH, estrogen, and progesterone hormone tests were conducted once during the menstruation phase and once during the ovulation phase. Landing Error Scoring System (LESS), Cutting Movement Assessment Score (CMAS), flexibility, and laxity were taken on the participants. The t-test and the Wilcoxon test were applied to analyze continuous variables. The McNemar test was used to examine categorical variables. The study was completed with 22 female athletes aged 20.45 +/- 0.54 years. Participants comprised volleyball (n = 14, 63.6%) and handball (n = 8, 36.4%) athletes. Mean height 167.82 +/- 1.52 cm, body weight 56.11 +/- 1.43 kg, BMI 19.88 +/- 0.33 kg/m(2), menarche age 12,95 +/- 1,21 menstruation duration 5,77 +/- 0,75 (range: 4-7) days, menstrual cycle length was 29,32 +/- 2,91 (range: 23-35) days, and the number of menstrual cycles in a year is 12,09 +/- 0,25 (range: 10-15). Results As a result of the study, estradiol, LH, progesterone, and both knees' laxity values showed a statistically significant increase in the ovulation phase (p < 0.05). No statistically significant difference was observed between the phases in the flexibility test (p > 0.05). When the results of LESS and CMAS were examined, it was found that participants' total error scores and risk categories did not show a statistically significant difference between the phases (p > 0.05). Conclusion LESS and CMAS analyses can be conducted and evaluated in both phases of the menstrual cycle, as it has been observed that the analyses yielded similar results in both phases.		[Arslan, Esma] Hlth Sci Univ, Van Educ & Res Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Suphan Airline Junct,1st Kilometer, TR-65300 Van, Turkiye; [Ercan, Sabriye] Suleyman Demirel Univ, Fac Med, Dept Sports Med, Isparta, Turkiye; [Arslan, Esma] Hlth Sci Univ, Van Educ & Res Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Suphan Airline Junct,1st Kilometer, TR-65300 Van, Turkiye								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001443668200001	35	Article; Article		
J	White, Sean R.; Coughlan, Daniel A.; Wood, Carly; Wells, Jack E. T.; Murray, Andrew; Brearley, Simon L.; Moran, Jason								Elite professional golfers' physical preparation practices and perceptions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1176	1189		10.1177/17479541251321260			JUN 2025	2025	Physical preparation for improving golf performance is a topic of rising interest. However, little is known of how advancements in empirical evidence have integrated with the practices and perceptions of elite professional golfers. To address this shortfall in knowledge, forty-nine (n = 32 European Tour, n = 17 Challenge Tour) professional golfers were surveyed on their physical preparation practices and perceptions. Additionally, golfers' in-tournament training practices were observed at the 148th Open Championship gym facility. The majority of surveyed golfers had experience of following a "structured resistance training plan" (89.8%). However, players face challenges to incorporate physical preparation throughout a tournament year. In turn, the development of physical attributes including muscular strength, power and muscle mass known to underpin clubhead speed/driver distance, and the training methods typically required to stimulate such adaptations were often not prioritised during the in-season period. Limited engagement with heavy load and high-velocity resistance training methods were observed at the Open Championship. However, in order to maximise their potential, players can enhance key physical qualities on a year-round basis (i.e., during the in-season). Consequently, further education and research on how to effectively organise and optimise resistance training within tournament constraints would be of value.		[White, Sean R.; Wood, Carly; Moran, Jason] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Coughlan, Daniel A.; Wells, Jack E. T.; Murray, Andrew; Brearley, Simon L.] European Tour Hlth & Performance Inst, European Tour Grp, Virginia Water, England; [Coughlan, Daniel A.; Wells, Jack E. T.; Brearley, Simon L.] Woodhall Spa, England Golf, Lincolnshire, England; [Wells, Jack E. T.] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Cambridge, England; [Coughlan, Daniel A.] Ladies European Tour, Hlth & Performance Inst, Denham, England; [Murray, Andrew] The R&A, Med & Sci Dept, St Andrews, Scotland; [Murray, Andrew] Univ Edinburgh, UK Collaborating Ctr Illness & Injury Prevent, Edinburgh, Scotland; [White, Sean R.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001444516500001	51	Article; Article		
J	Kaja, Sarah M.; Gower, Amy L.; Parchem, Benjamin; Adler, Samantha J.; Mcguire, Jenifer K.; Rider, G. Nic; Eisenberg, Marla E.								Sports Team Participation, Bias-Based Bullying, and Mental Health Among Transgender and Gender Diverse Adolescents								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			590	598		10.1080/02701367.2025.2465702			JUL 3 2025	2025	Purpose: We investigated associations between sport participation and depressive and anxiety symptoms among transgender and gender diverse (TGD) adolescents, considering social positions and experiences of bias-based bullying specific to sexual orientation, gender identity, and/or gender expression (SOGIE-BB). Method: TGD adolescents (n = 10,454) completed a school survey. Adolescents in eighth, ninth, or 11th grade self-reported sports team participation, elevated depressive and anxiety symptoms, experiencing past-month SOGIE-BB, specific gender identity, race/ethnicity, and access to resources. We identified groups with highest prevalences of elevated depressive and anxiety symptoms by sports team participation (any/none), experiences of SOGIE-BB (any/none), and social positions using Exhaustive Chi-square Automatic Interaction Detections. Via post-hoc tests, we determined whether prevalences differed between adolescents with the same social positions 1) without SOGIE-BB, 2) with sports participation, and 3) without SOGIE-BB and with sports participation. Results: Experiencing SOGIE-BB comprised each of the highest prevalence elevated depressive and anxiety groups. Four of 7 groups with elevated depressive symptoms and 3 of 4 groups with elevated anxiety symptoms reported no sports participation. Among adolescents sharing social positions, experiencing no SOGIE-BB was significantly associated with lower prevalences of elevated depressive and anxiety symptoms. Sports participation was also significantly associated with lower prevalences of elevated depressive and anxiety symptoms, including when experiencing SOGIE-BB. This was true for all but two high prevalence groups. Conclusion: Sports team participation is associated with better mental health among TGD adolescents. Experiencing SOGIE-BB is associated with higher mental health risks. Promoting sports participation and preventing SOGIE-BB could each enhance TGD adolescents' well-being.		[Kaja, Sarah M.; Gower, Amy L.; Adler, Samantha J.; Mcguire, Jenifer K.; Rider, G. Nic; Eisenberg, Marla E.] Univ Minnesota, 717 Delaware St Southeast, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Parchem, Benjamin] Lurie Childrens Hosp, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Parchem, Benjamin] Northwestern Univ, Evanston, IL USA; [Kaja, Sarah M.] Univ Minnesota, 717 Delaware St Southeast, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001441872000001	45	Article; Article		
J	Humphreys, Brad R.; Ruseski, Jane E.								Professional Sports Facility Construction Projects and Infant Health								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	4			397	426		10.1177/15270025251322373			MAY 2025	2025	Building subsidized new professional sports facilities represents a common local economic development policy. Little research focuses on negative local impacts generated by these projects. Linking data on the exact timing and location of new sports facility construction projects to birth data, we find that facility construction projects generate negative local externalities. Infants born during construction have lower birth weights than infants born in comparable areas where no new facility opened. Prenatal health visits also declined. Disproportionate negative impacts occurred in vulnerable populations. Mechanisms identified include local airborne particulate matter and reduced provision of government services affecting prenatal health.		[Humphreys, Brad R.; Ruseski, Jane E.] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, POB 6025,83 Beechurst Ave, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Ruseski, Jane E.] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, POB 6025,83 Beechurst Ave, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001442900500001	53	Article; Article		
J	Pedley, Jason S.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Read, Paul J.; Moore, Isabel S.; Myer, Gregory D.; Oliver, Jon L.								Drop jump vertical kinetics identify male youth soccer players at greater risk of non-contact knee injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				48	56		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.03.003			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: To determine associations between drop-jump vertical kinetics and acute non-contact knee injury-risk in male youth soccer players. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Professional soccer academies. Participants: Youth soccer players (n = 264). Main outcome measures: Drop-jump vertical kinetics; injury epidemiology. Associations between kinetics and injury were assessed using binary logistic regression. Differences between injured and uninjured groups were compared using statistical parametric mapping. Results: Peak braking: peak propulsive force ratio (OR = 1.59, 1.10-2.29, p < 0.05), propulsive work (OR = 0.53, 0.28-0.99, p < 0.05) and vertical stiffness (OR = 1.68, 1.13-2.52, p < 0.05) were associated with risk of sustaining a knee injury. All variables demonstrated 'unusable' or 'weak' levels of predictive ability in identifying players who would become injured (AUC 0.568-0.663). Conclusions: Drop-jump vertical kinetics that characterise the shape of the force-time waveform provide insight to acute non-contact knee injury-risk in male youth soccer players. Large transient spikes in force in the early phase of ground contact, coupled with reduced propulsive forces are a risk factor for acute non-contact knee injury in male youth soccer players. Variables are not sensitive enough to predict injury but provide additional training targets to help mitigate risk in this population.		[Pedley, Jason S.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Oliver, Jon L.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Oliver, Jon L.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Read, Paul J.] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Moore, Isabel S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sport Performance & Res Ctr, Flowery Branch, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Pedley, Jason S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001446766900001	40	Article; Article		
J	Ma, Shang Chun; Byon, Kevin; Ma, Shang Min								Spectators' adaptation to health-related risk: the moderating role of team identification and past spectating experience								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	5			906	928		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2024-0144			DEC 5 2025	2025	PurposeThis study used a revised protection motivation theory to investigate how professional sport fans in Taiwan adapted to health-related risk such as COVID-19. It examined the effects of perceived changes in event quality (CEQ), threat and coping appraisal and the moderating roles of team identification and past spectating experience.Design/methodology/approachAn online survey collected data from 1,080 professional baseball and basketball league fans. A qualitative and quantitative CEQ scale was developed.FindingsStructural equation modeling showed a path from perceptions of health-related risk (HR), CEQ, threat appraisal and coping appraisal to intention to adapt. Fans with stronger team identification are more likely to adapt to HR prevention measures and CEQ on the basis of their coping appraisals than fans with weaker team identification are. Furthermore, fans with weaker team identification and nonrepeat attendees generally develop an intention to adapt after performing a threat appraisal. These findings inform in-person and online event promotion strategies.Originality/valueIntegrating information sources and a mediating variable, CEQ, into the PMT framework while considering spectators' traits provides new insights into spectators' decision-making in health-related risk contexts.		[Ma, Shang Chun] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Coll Management, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan; [Byon, Kevin] Indiana Univ, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN USA; [Ma, Shang Min] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Humanities & Social Sci, Dept Recreat Sport & Hlth Promot, Pingtung, Taiwan; [Ma, Shang Min] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Humanities & Social Sci, Dept Recreat Sport & Hlth Promot, Pingtung, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001438792600001	56	Article; Article		
J	Chiu, Weisheng; Lee, Cindy; Bang, Hyejin; Chen, Jie								How CSR message specificity affects corporate image, attitudes and behavioral intentions among sport consumers? The moderating role of perceived CSR fit								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	5			969	988		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2024-0325			DEC 5 2025	2025	PurposeThis study explored communication regarding corporate social responsibility (CSR), with a focus on how message specificity influences the images of corporations as well as the attitudes and behavioral intentions of sport consumers. A research model was developed based on the elaboration likelihood model and construal level theory to examine the moderating effect of perceived CSR fit on the relationship between a company's image and its chosen social cause.Design/methodology/approachData were collected through an online survey (N = 338) and analyzed using partial least squares structural equation modeling.FindingsThe findings revealed that CSR message specificity positively impacts corporate image, which in turn enhances consumer attitudes and behavioral intentions. Perceived CSR fit negatively moderates the relationship between CSR message specificity and corporate image, indicating that detailed CSR messaging more effectively improves corporate image when consumers perceive a low fit between a company's core business activities and the social causes that they advocate.Originality/valueThe findings deepen the understanding of CSR communication and offer valuable insights for companies on crafting messages that maximize favorable consumer responses.		[Chiu, Weisheng; Chen, Jie] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Lee, Cindy] West Virginia Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Morgantown, WV USA; [Bang, Hyejin] Florida Int Univ, Dept Counseling, Recreat, Miami, FL USA; [Bang, Hyejin] Florida Int Univ, Sch Psychol, Miami, FL USA; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001439591900001	92	Article; Article		
J	Lu, Cheng; Zhang, Yiyun; Chen, Ziye; Sang, Zhencong; Liu, Zunli								How do marketing practices impact price premium of co-branded sportswear? The moderating effect of product category fit and partner brand name								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	5			885	905		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2023-0248			DEC 5 2025	2025	PurposeSportswear brands are increasingly adopting co-branding strategies. Despite the success of marketing practices in co-branding remaining unclear, product category fit and partner brand name potentially play crucial roles. The aim of this research is to explore the effectiveness of marketing practices employed by sportswear brands when collaborating with different partner brands.Design/methodology/approachDue to internal data-sharing restrictions within companies, transaction data from second-hand platforms serve as a crucial source to compensate for the lack of first-hand market data. Using second-hand transaction prices effectively reflects long-term consumer demand and provides reliable support for evaluating product market value and brand marketing practices. A total of 315,584 records detailing trading information were collected from POIZON, a Chinese second-hand trading platform known for sportswear. These data were organized into 5,421 entries and analyzed by multiple regression.FindingsThe findings indicate that partner brand popularity negatively affects the price premium of co-branded sportswear (PPCS), with product category fit and partner brand name moderating this relationship. High partner brand popularity can lead to cue competition and consumer confusion, reducing PPCS. This challenges the assumption that higher brand popularity always correlates with greater perceived value. However, when product category fit is high, this negative effect is reversed. Additionally, while celebrity endorsements exert a positive influence on PPCS, their effectiveness diminishes when the partner brand name is related to a celebrity, suggesting an overshadowing effect.Practical implicationsSportswear companies should prioritize product category fit when partnering with popular brands. Concurrently, they must thoroughly assess the naming style and distinctive attributes of partner brands when choosing endorsers. Similarly, marketing firms need to ensure that the endorsers' values align seamlessly with the brand name to prevent any potential conflicts.Originality/valueThis study offers new insights by applying the competitive cue theory to demonstrate how partner brand popularity negatively affects co-branding effectiveness, moderated by product category fit. By validating the meaning transfer model, it shows that celebrity endorsements enhance the price premium of co-branded products in the secondary market. Additionally, the introduction of the overshadowing effect reveals how partner brand names moderate this impact. Supported by empirical field data, these findings enrich market research beyond conventional evaluations.		[Lu, Cheng; Zhang, Yiyun; Chen, Ziye; Sang, Zhencong] Donghua Univ, Coll Fash & Design, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Lu, Cheng] Donghua Univ, Key Lab Clothing Design & Technol, Minist Educ Peoples Republ China, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Chen, Ziye] Fenghua Vocat Educ Ctr, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Liu, Zunli] Shanghai Univ Engn Sci, Sch Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liu, Zunli] Shanghai Univ Engn Sci, Sch Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001439495700001	95	Article; Article		
J	Wu, Yu-Feng; Wu, Yu-Tai; Chen, Bo-Ching								The influence of sponsorship effectiveness on consumer perceptions and purchasing behavior in esports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	5			950	968		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2024-0282			DEC 5 2025	2025	PurposeWith the rise of esports, research on the perceived fit between esports sponsors and events remains limited. This study uses the Elaboration Likelihood Model (ELM) to investigate how the perceived fit between sponsors and esports events effects brand awareness, consumer attitudes and purchasing behavior, aiming to offer insights for more effective marketing strategies.Design/methodology/approachData were collected from 245 participants during the Taipei Game Show 2024, using purposive sampling of individuals aged 18 and above. The data were analyzed using Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modeling (PLS-SEM) with Smart PLS 4.0.1.6 to examine the relationships among perceived fit, brand awareness, consumer attitudes and purchasing behavior, and to investigate the mediating effects.FindingsThe results discovered that brand awareness, perceived fit and consumer attitudes had significant positive effects on purchasing behavior, explaining 75% of its variance. Additionally, perceived fit positively affected both brand awareness and consumer attitude. Mediating effect showed that both brand awareness and consumer attitude play significant mediating roles between perceived fit and purchasing behavior, with consumer attitude having a stronger mediating effect.Originality/valueThis study highlights to the limited body of research on esports sponsorships by demonstrating that perceived sponsor-event fit is crucial for enhancing brand awareness, advancing positive consumer attitudes and driving purchasing behavior. The ELM framework highlights the importance of central and peripheral routes in influencing consumer decisions, offering strategies for companies to optimize sponsorship effectiveness and improve brand competitiveness.		[Wu, Yu-Feng] Ming Chi Univ Technol, Off Phys Educ, New Taipei City, Taiwan; [Wu, Yu-Tai] Soochow Univ, Off Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chen, Bo-Ching] CTBC Business Sch, Undergraduate Program Sports Coaching, Tainan, Taiwan; [Chen, Bo-Ching] CTBC Business Sch, Undergraduate Program Sports Coaching, Tainan, Taiwan								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001437406700001	83	Article; Article		
J	Sasabe, Koki; Nishiumi, Daichi; Takeuchi, Daisuke; Kamada, Kotaro; Hirose, Norikazu								The association of agonist muscle fascicle length and antagonist muscle flexibility on power output during human knee extension tasks								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	3			379	390		10.1080/14763141.2025.2474516			MAR 4 2026	2026	Recent studies have reported that muscle power can be improved through stretching. However, the mechanisms underlying the power enhancement induced by stretching are not yet well understood. This study aimed to clarify the association of muscle fascicle length and antagonist muscle flexibility on muscle power output and velocity variables. Fascicle length and muscle thickness, pennation angle of vastus lateralis, knee flexor stiffness, and range of motion (ROM) were measured in American football players. Moreover, knee extension torque measurements were taken at five angular velocities (60 deg<middle dot>s-1 - 300 deg<middle dot>s-1), and theoretical maximum power (Pmax), maximum force (F0), and maximum angular velocity (V0) were calculated. Pearson's product-moment or Spearman's rank correlation coefficients were calculated for each variable. ROM showed a significant moderate positive correlation with Pmax. This suggests that the flexibility of antagonist muscles may influence the power output of agonist muscles. However, although muscle thickness showed a moderate correlation with F0, V0 did not significantly correlate with any of the variables. This finding suggests that other factors, such as rapid recruitment of motor units and muscle fibre composition, may play a more substantial role in torque at very high angular velocities than muscle morphology and mechanical properties.		[Sasabe, Koki; Kamada, Kotaro] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Japan; [Nishiumi, Daichi; Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Takeuchi, Daisuke] Waseda Univ, Amer Football Club, Tokyo, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001443019400001	29	Article; Article		
J	Steinberg, Nili; Elbaz, Liav; Bar-Sela, Shelly; Peleg, Smadar; Eliakim, Alon; Nemet, Dan; Dar, Gali								The relationship between physical features and patellofemoral-pain in young female gymnasts								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	5			360	369		10.1080/00913847.2025.2472741			SEP 3 2025	2025	BackgroundPatellofemoral pain (PFP) is prevalent in high impact athletes. ObjectivesTo evaluate the prevalence of PFP and examine relationships between physical attributes and PFP in gymnasts. MethodsData collection included the screening of 274 female gymnasts (aged M = 11.8 +/- 1.9 years) from three disciplines - rhythmic, acrobatic, and artistic gymnastics. The participants completed Tanner's pubertal stage questionnaire and reported their date of birth and menarche status. They were then assessed for anthropometric measures, bone density, muscle strength, joint range of motion (ROM), hypermobility, and were physically examined for PFP. ResultsA total of 21.5% of the gymnasts had PFP, with a significantly higher prevalence among artistic gymnasts (33.3%) compared to acrobatic gymnasts (11.7%) (p = .008). No significant differences were seen in the age, menarche status, and pubertal stages of gymnasts with and without PFP (p > .05). H/week of training during the current year differed significantly between gymnasts with and without PFP by discipline (PFP X discipline interaction) (F(2, 267) = 3.647, p = 0.027). Logistic regressions showed that decreased tibial bone density (OR = 0.996), increased en-pointe ROM (OR = 1.061), and reduced muscle-strength (knee extensors [OR = 0.003] and hip abductors [OR = 0.001]) were significantly associated with PFP. ConclusionsA high prevalence of PFP was seen, especially among artistic gymnasts. Decreased bone density, increased ankle ROM, and decreased knee and hip muscle strength were associated with PFP in young gymnasts. These findings suggest modifying risk factors, such as strength and loads, during the training of young female gymnasts. Moreover, physical features and other factors that may be related to PFP should be screened from a young age. Developing and implementing training programs and injury-prevention exercises is important to decrease loads and strains to the knees, while reducing the chance of knee pain or injuries in young female gymnasts.		[Steinberg, Nili; Elbaz, Liav; Bar-Sela, Shelly; Peleg, Smadar] Acad Coll Levinsky Wingate, Life Sci, Wingate Campus, Netanya, Israel; [Elbaz, Liav; Dar, Gali] Univ Haifa, Fac Social Welf & Hlth Studies, Dept Phys Therapy, Haifa, Israel; [Eliakim, Alon; Nemet, Dan] Tel Aviv Univ, Child Hlth & Sport Ctr, Meir Med Ctr, Sackler Sch Med,Pediat, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Steinberg, Nili] Acad Coll Levinsky Wingate, Anat Lab, Wingate Campus, IL-42000 Netanya, Israel								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001438959900001	55	Article; Article		
J	Hakansson, Anders; Andersson, Mitchell J.; Claesdotter-Knutsson, Emma; Kenttae, Goran								Problem gambling among elite ice hockey players in Sweden - elevated prevalence among male, but not female athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	5			370	375		10.1080/00913847.2025.2473874			SEP 3 2025	2025	ObjectivesAn emerging body of research reveals a heightened risk of gambling problems among elite athletes, particularly among males, but these studies often suffer from small sample sizes and lack diverse representation across sports and groups. This study aimed to investigate gambling problems and their correlates among elite male and female ice hockey players in Sweden's top leagues.MethodsDuring the labor union's on-site visits to Swedish ice hockey clubs in the top two tiers for males and the top tier for females, a web-based survey was conducted. Players were screened for gambling problems using the Problem Gambling Severity Index, and for depression, anxiety, and hazardous drinking using other standardized instruments. Estimated study participation was 75-80%.ResultsAmong male athletes, 12% met the criteria for moderate-risk or problem gambling, while none of the females met this threshold. Approximately 24% of male and 2% of female participants reported any degree of at-risk gambling. In males, gambling problems were strongly associated with depressive and anxiety symptoms and with hazardous alcohol consumption.ConclusionGambling problems are 3-4 times more prevalent among elite male ice hockey players compared to young men in the general population. The authors discuss the associated mental health consequences, vulnerability to match-fixing-related fraud, and the need for preventive measures and easy access to treatment.		[Hakansson, Anders; Andersson, Mitchell J.] Lund Univ, Fac Med, Dept Clin Sci Lund, Psychiat, Lund, Sweden; [Hakansson, Anders; Andersson, Mitchell J.] Malmo Addict Ctr, Sports & Mental Hlth Res Unit, Malmo, Sweden; [Claesdotter-Knutsson, Emma] Lund Univ, Fac Med, Dept Clin Sci Lund, Child & Adolescent Psychiat, Lund, Sweden; [Claesdotter-Knutsson, Emma] Div Child & Adolescent Psychiat, Malmo, Sweden; [Kenttae, Goran] Swedish Sports Confederat, Stockholm, Sweden; [Kenttae, Goran] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol Nutr & Biomech, Sect Coaching & Special Sports, Stockholm, Sweden; [Kenttae, Goran] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Andersson, Mitchell J.] Malmo Addict Ctr, Sodra Forstadsgatan 35,Floor 4, S-21143 Malmo, Sweden								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001438469100001	27	Article; Article		
J	Ishoi, Lasse; Meincke, Simon; Lund, Anders P.; Stenholm, Anders; Delang, Matt; Thornton, Kasper; Thorborg, Kristian								Less pain, same gain? A randomized controlled trial comparing assisted-versus non-assisted Nordic Hamstring exercise training in elite youth football players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				39	47		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.02.007			MAY 2025	2025	Introduction: The Nordic Hamstring exercise (NHE) increases hamstring strength, but muscle soreness and excessive fatigue may hinder adoption. The assisted NHE (A-NHE), with an elastic band around the chest lowering the force in the eccentric lowering phase, may be a less demanding alternative. We investigated the effectiveness of A-NHE versus NHE on hamstring strength, muscle soreness, and perceived exertion. Methods: We randomized 31 youth elite football players (under-14 and-15) from a single professional football academy to either NHE or A-NHE, who performed the same supervised 8-week program. The A-NHE was performed with an elastic band, progressing from heavy to light assistance. A blinded tester assessed Nordic hamstring strength, while hamstring muscle soreness and perceived exertion were assessed during each session. Results: Intention-to-treat analysis showed no group by time interaction (p = 0.61) for Nordic hamstring strength. Both groups improved significantly (A-NHE mean difference: 3.7 kg, 95% CI [2.1; 5.3]; NHE mean difference: 3.2 kg, 95% CI [1.2; 5.2]) corresponding to approximately 20%. The NHE group reported significantly higher hamstring muscle soreness (beta = 1.77, p < 0.01) and perceived exertion (beta = 1.54, p < 0.01). Conclusion: Eight weeks of assisted-versus regular Nordic Hamstring training led to similar strength gains, but with lower hamstring muscle soreness and perceived exertion.		[Ishoi, Lasse; Thorborg, Kristian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Dept Orthoped Surg, Kettegard Alle 30, DK-2650 Amager Hvidovre, Denmark; [Ishoi, Lasse; Meincke, Simon; Lund, Anders P.; Stenholm, Anders; Delang, Matt; Thornton, Kasper] Human Performance Dept, Right Dream, Farum, Denmark; [Thorborg, Kristian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg & Phys Therapy, Phys Med & Rehabil Res Copenhagen PMR C, Amager Hvidovre, Denmark; [Ishoi, Lasse] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Dept Orthoped Surg, Kettegard Alle 30, DK-2650 Amager Hvidovre, Denmark								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001442933400001	48	Article; Article		
J	Kono, Tatsuya; Yamazaki, Wataru; Tanino, Yoshitsugu								The effects of subsequent soccer-specific tasks on sidestep cutting kinematics and kinetics								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				9	16		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.02.010			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: Sidestep cutting (SSC), a common method in soccer, frequently causes anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury. This study examined the effects of a soccer-specific movement task performed after a SSC on the kinematics and kinetics of the SSC. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: The participants performed SSC with a 90 degrees change of direction in the following three conditions: running straight after SSC (Normal condition), kicking the ball after SSC (Kick condition), and jumping and heading after SSC (Heading condition). Participants: Twenty healthy adult males with experience in soccer participated in this study. Main outcome measures: Three-dimensional knee angles, moments, and ground reaction force (GRF) characteristics during the SSC were compared across conditions. Results: The knee valgus angle at foot contact and peak knee valgus moment of the supporting leg during SSC were significantly greater in the Normal condition compared to the Heading condition. Significant differences in GRF characteristics were mainly observed in braking impulse, propulsion impulse, and peak posterior GRF between conditions. Conclusions: The SSC movement strategy should be a form that supports the efficient accomplishment of the subsequent task. Moreover, the Normal condition resulted in a posture more prone to non-contact ACL injury than the Heading condition.		[Kono, Tatsuya; Yamazaki, Wataru; Tanino, Yoshitsugu] Kansai Univ Hlth Sci, Grad Sch, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, 2-11-1 Wakaba, Sennan, Osaka 5900482, Japan; [Kono, Tatsuya; Yamazaki, Wataru; Tanino, Yoshitsugu] Kansai Univ Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 2-11-1 Wakaba, Sennan, Osaka 5900482, Japan; [Kono, Tatsuya] Kansai Univ Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 2-11-1 Wakaba, Sennan, Osaka 5900482, Japan; [Kono, Tatsuya] Kyoto Inst Technol, Grad Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Biotechnol, Sakyo Ku, Kyoto 6068585, Japan								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001441728300001	36	Article; Article		
J	Proppe, Christopher E.; Rivera, Paola M.; Lubiak, Sean M.; Fukuda, David H.; Anderson, Abigail W.; Mansy, Hansen A.; Hill, Ethan C.								Exercise-induced hypoalgesia following blood flow restricted exercise								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				73				17	24		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.02.011			MAY 2025	2025	Objectives: Assess the repeatability of exercise-induced hypoalgesia (EIH) following low-load resistance exercise with blood flow restriction (LL + BFR) and the magnitude of EIH following LL + BFR, high-load resistance exercise, and a control intervention 1-h after exercise. Design: Crossover design. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: 15 females, 15 males. Main outcome measures: Pain pressure threshold and tolerance of the rectus femoris, gastrocnemius, and biceps brachii pre-exercise and 0-, 15-, 30-, 45-, and 60-min post-exercise. Results: There was no significant (p = 0.211-0.741) difference in pain pressure threshold or tolerance between LL + BFR1 and LL + BFR2 suggesting that EIH following LL + BFR is repeatable. LL + BFR elicited a significant (p = 0.001-0.043) increase in local pain pressure threshold (1.57 + 1.21-0.98 + 1.48 Delta kgf) and tolerance (1.98 + 2.65-0.83 + 2.15 Delta kgf) up to 1-h post-exercise. High-load resistance exercise elicited a significant (p = 0.003-0.034) increase in pain pressure threshold 0-min post-exercise (1.69 + 1.74 Delta kgf) and tolerance 0- and 15-min post-exercise (2.31 + 2.44 Delta kgf; 0.56 + 1.83 Delta kgf, respectively) then returned to pre-exercise levels. LL + BFR elicited a significant (p = 0.025-0.046) increase in systemic pain pressure tolerance (0.77 + 0.88 Delta kgf) of the gastrocnemius as well as pain pressure threshold (0.53 + 0.54 Delta kgf) and tolerance (0.49 + 1.02 Delta kgf) of the biceps brachii, when collapsed across Time. Conclusions: LL + BFR may be a repeatable, effective pain management intervention that can produce prolonged EIH.		[Proppe, Christopher E.] Wichita State Univ, Dept Human Performance Studies, Heskett Ctr 106H 1845 Fairmount St, Wichita, KS 67260 USA; [Rivera, Paola M.] Endicott Coll, Sch Sport Sci, Beverly, MA USA; [Lubiak, Sean M.; Fukuda, David H.; Anderson, Abigail W.; Hill, Ethan C.] Univ Cent Florida, Inst Exercise Physiol & Rehabil Sci, Orlando, FL USA; [Mansy, Hansen A.] Univ Cent Florida, Coll Engn & Comp Sci, Orlando, FL USA; [Proppe, Christopher E.] Wichita State Univ, Dept Human Performance Studies, Heskett Ctr 106H 1845 Fairmount St, Wichita, KS 67260 USA								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001441746800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Fernandez-Javega, Gonzalo; Moya-Ramon, Manuel; Pena-Gonzalez, Ivan								Assessing Changes in the Sprint Force-Velocity Profile Following Plyometric Training in Young Football Players by Maturity Status								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			599	606		10.1080/02701367.2025.2466195			JUL 3 2025	2025	This study assessed changes in the sprint force-velocity (Fv) profile of young football players according to their maturity status following an 8-week plyometric training program. Jump (CMJ) and sprint performance (5-m and 30-m) of 34 players were evaluated, and the sprint Fv profile was calculated. Participants were categorized based on their years from/to peak height velocity (PHV). The training program included three football-specific training sessions and two strength-training sessions with plyometric exercises per week. MANOVA revealed initial differences between maturity groups in body mass, height, 5-m and 30-m sprint times, CMJ, and sprint Fv variables, though the overall profile remained consistent (same slope). Repeated-measures analysis showed a positive effect of the training program (F = 12.18-72.07; p < .001), with improvements in CMJ, 5-m and 30-m sprint times (Cohen's d = 0.41 to 0.54; p < .050), and sprint mechanical variables (except for a decrease in the ratio of force). Multivariate analysis did not reveal between-group differences in changes post-training (F = 0.05-3.79; p = .060-.826), and standardized effects indicated trivial to small differences in adaptations to the training. This study identified differences in the sprint Fv profile among players of varying maturity status. However, players across different maturity levels improved their sprint Fv profiles similarly, suggesting comparable training responses.		[Fernandez-Javega, Gonzalo; Moya-Ramon, Manuel; Pena-Gonzalez, Ivan] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Sport Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Avda Univ S-N, Elche 03202, Spain; [Pena-Gonzalez, Ivan] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Sport Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Avda Univ S-N, Elche 03202, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001441941800001	36	Article; Article		
J	Freire, Gabriel Lucas Morais; do Nascimento Junior, Jose Roberto Andrade; Cronin, Lorcan Donal; Costa, Nathan Leonardo Gomes; Fiorese, Lenamar								The coach-athlete relationship as a mediator of the relationships between coach-autonomy support and athlete's life skills development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			899	909		10.1177/17479541241308650			JUN 2025	2025	To address the need for theoretical investigations of life skills development, the current study looked to combine Self-Determination Theory and the 3C's model when investigating life skills development in sport. The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of the coach-athlete relationship in mediating the potential associations between coach autonomy support and participant's life skills development in Brazilian youth sport. A total of 724 (380 boys and 344 girls, Mage = 14.57, SD = 1.62) took part in the study. These participants completed measures assessing their perceptions of coach autonomy support, coach-athlete relationship (closeness, commitment, and complementarity) and life skill development (teamwork, goal setting, interpersonal communication, problem solving and decision making, time management, emotional skills, leadership, and social skills). Our analyses indicated that coach autonomy support had an indirect effect on participant's total life skills development (i.e., all eight life skills combined) via the coach-athlete relationship. In practice, these findings suggest that when trying to promote participant's total life skills development through sport, coaches should display autonomy-supportive behaviors and foster a positive coach-athlete relationship.		[Freire, Gabriel Lucas Morais; Fiorese, Lenamar] Univ Estadual Maringa, Phys Educ Dept, Maringa, Brazil; [do Nascimento Junior, Jose Roberto Andrade; Costa, Nathan Leonardo Gomes] Fed Univ Vale Sao Francisco, Phys Educ Coll, Petrolina, Brazil; [Cronin, Lorcan Donal] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk, England; [Cronin, Lorcan Donal] Mary Immaculate Coll, Dept Psychol, Limerick, Ireland; [Freire, Gabriel Lucas Morais] Univ Estadual Maringa, Phys Educ Dept, Maringa, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001437302300001	65	Article; Article		
J	Olaizola, Aratz; Errekagorri, Ibai; Lopez-de-Ipina, Karmele; Calvo, Pilar Maria; Castellano, Julen								Analysis of running performance in the two main Spanish Women's football leagues: A case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1250	1258		10.1177/17479541251320590			JUN 2025	2025	The objective of this study was to describe and compare the running demands and performances in women's elite football in different types of training sessions and matches, considering two professional categories (First Division and Second Division) during two consecutive seasons. A total of 32 players were analyzed in the Spanish Women's First Division (C1) and Second Division (C2). In addition to the match-day (MD), four types of training sessions were analyzed: four, three and one days before the MD, MD-4, MD-3 and MD-1 respectively, and one day after, MD + 1. The recorded variables, were: effective minutes (EM), total distance (TD), high-speed running (HSR), sprint (SPR) and distance covered per minute (TDmin). The results were: 1) for both categories: no training session replicated the demands of competition, except for MD + 1 in C2 which accumulated higher values in two variables (HSR and SPR). MD-1 was the session with the lowest load and intensity; 2) C1 only presented higher demands than C2 in two (TD, 9533 m vs 9255 m and TDmin, 98,8 m/min vs 96 m/min) of the four variables in the MD. We can conclude that there was an inverted U-shaped distribution in running performance within the competition microcycle in both categories, despite that most of the training sessions were not more demanding than the competition, and that there were only differences between categories in competition running performance. The practical applications of this study could improve intervention strategies in both the training process and competition.		[Olaizola, Aratz; Errekagorri, Ibai; Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Soc Sports & Phys Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Spain; [Lopez-de-Ipina, Karmele] Univ Cambridge, Dept Psychiat, Cambridge Neurosci, Cambridge, England; [Lopez-de-Ipina, Karmele; Calvo, Pilar Maria] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Dept Syst Engn & Automat, EleKin Res Grp, Donostia San Sebastian, Spain; [Lopez-de-Ipina, Karmele; Calvo, Pilar Maria] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Comp Sci Fac, Dept Architecture & Technol Comp, Donostia San Sebastian, Spain; [Olaizola, Aratz] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001436242200001	27	Article; Article		
J	Marceau, Pascale								How to make sponsorship activations memorable: the power of meaningfulness								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	5			929	949		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2024-0235			DEC 5 2025	2025	PurposeBuilding on memory-dominant logic, this study proposes a theoretical model explaining the antecedents and consequences of memorable activation experience.Design/methodology/approachThrough a qualitative research methodology - a narrative review, an analysis of current activation trends, eight interviews and content validity evaluation by five experts - this study hypothesized that six antecedents (positive emotions, novelty, meaningfulness, involvement, experience intensification and serendipity) positively influence memorable activation experience, which in turn significantly affects two managerial outcomes: positive word-of-mouth and sponsor recall. To evaluate the proposed hypotheses, this study analyzed data collected from consumers who participated in a sponsorship activation by Lafleur (n = 215) and Salon de jeux de Qu & eacute;bec (n = 306) using partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM).FindingsThe results indicate that all antecedents, except for novelty, have a significant impact on memorable activation experience, which positively impacts positive word-of-mouth and sponsor recall.Originality/valueBy extending the scope of memorable experience to the sponsorship field, this study enhances its conceptualization and application. It also contributes to a better understanding of designing activations to increase the likelihood of memorability, thus improving their effectiveness.		[Marceau, Pascale] Univ Quebec Montreal ESG UQAM, Sch Management Sci, Dept Mkt, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Marceau, Pascale] Univ Quebec Montreal ESG UQAM, Sch Management Sci, Dept Mkt, Montreal, PQ, Canada								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001433838500001	90	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Daniel; Dunn, Marcus; Worsfold, Paul; Newton, Deborah; Faulkner, Steve H.; d'Andrea, Francesca; Wheat, Jon								Mean stability and between-session reliability of cycling biomechanics variables in elite pursuit cyclists								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2519	2539		10.1080/14763141.2025.2471805			SEP 2 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to determine the number of crank revolutions required to obtain stable mean values of sagittal plane biomechanics variables, and the between-session reliability of these variables, whilst cyclists used an aerodynamic position. Eighteen elite cyclists completed a 3-min maximal bout on a cycling ergometer. Lower-limb kinematic and kinetic data were captured using 2D motion capture and force pedals. Raw data were filtered using a 4th order Butterworth low-pass filter (6 hz) and interpolated to 100 points per revolution. The middle 60 revolutions of each trial were extracted and 37 discrete and 15 time-series variables were calculated. Mean stability was assessed in all participants, and between-session reliability was analysed in a subset of 11 participants. Sequential averaging indicated more revolutions to stability than iterative intra-class correlation coefficients. Crank kinetics were more stable than joint kinematics and kinetics. For stable discrete and time-series variables, 30 and 38 revolutions are recommended, respectively. Between-day reliability for all variables was moderate to excellent, and good to excellent for crank kinetics and joint kinematics variables. Hip flexion-extension and ankle dorsiflexion kinetics were least reliable. Researchers and applied practitioners should consider these findings when planning, and interpreting results from, cycling biomechanics interventions.		[Williams, Daniel; d'Andrea, Francesca] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Hlth Res Inst, Sports Engn Res Grp, Sheffield, England; [Williams, Daniel; Worsfold, Paul; Newton, Deborah] UK Sports Inst, Biomech, Manchester, England; [Williams, Daniel; Newton, Deborah; Faulkner, Steve H.] Great Britain Cycling Team, Performance Support Team, Manchester, England; [Dunn, Marcus] Heriot Watt Univ, Sch Energy Geosci Infrastruct & Soc, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Worsfold, Paul] Univ Chester, Sch Allied & Publ Hlth, Chester, England; [Faulkner, Steve H.] Nottingham Trent Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Engn, Nottingham, England; [Wheat, Jon] Nottingham Trent Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Sport Sci, Nottingham, England; [Williams, Daniel] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Hlth Res Inst, Sports Engn Res Grp, Sheffield, England; [Williams, Daniel] UK Sports Inst, Biomech, Manchester, England; [Williams, Daniel] Great Britain Cycling Team, Performance Support Team, Manchester, England								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001440245000001	49	Article; Article		
J	Farana, Roman; Brtva, Pavel; Irwin, Gareth; Hamill, Joseph								Head-Trunk Coordination During Shooting Skills in Young Floorball Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			555	562		10.1080/02701367.2025.2461321			JUL 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to describe the basic coordination patterns and their changes during successful and unsuccessful shooting in floorball among young players. A sample of 10 participants (5 male, 5 female; age 13.5 +/- 0.7 years, height 164.7 +/- 6.1 cm, body mass 54.2 +/- 10.4 kg) was recruited from three floorball clubs. Participants were instructed to shoot accurately at a 0.25 m x 0.25 m target from 4 meters. Kinematic data were captured using 10 motion-analysis cameras, and coordination patterns and variability between head and trunk segments were assessed. Mean coupling angles and their standard deviation were calculated using a modified vector coding technique. A linear mixed model and effect size statistics identified differences between shot accuracy categories. The results showed no statistically significant differences in head and trunk positioning across shooting categories. Coordination analysis indicated that shooting success depends on whether the movement is led by the head or the trunk, with successful shots involving a coupled action between head and trunk movements, dominated by the head, highlighting its crucial role in executing the shooting task.		[Farana, Roman; Brtva, Pavel; Irwin, Gareth; Hamill, Joseph] Univ Ostrava, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Irwin, Gareth] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff, Wales; [Hamill, Joseph] Univ Massachusetts Amherst, Amherst, MA USA; [Farana, Roman] Univ Ostrava, Dept Human Movement Studies, Moravska Ostrava 3397, Ostrava 70200, Czech Republic								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001434157400001	21	Article; Article		
J	Xu, Weiqiang; Silva, Rui Miguel; Trybulski, Robert; Han, Xinjie; Yu, Yue; Clemente, Filipe Manuel								The Effect of Well-Being and Exercise Intensity on Enjoyment in Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	2			292	302		10.52082/jssm.2025.292			JUN 2025	2025	This study examined the relationship between well-being, exercise intensity, and enjoyment in soccer players. Seventy-seven players participated in this study. Participants performed the 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test and took part in four training formats: 5v5 and 1v1 small-sided games (SSGs), long HIIT, and short HIIT. Enjoyment was measured using the Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale (PACES), well-being was assessed with the Nordic Musculoskeletal Questionnaire (SNQ), Profile of Mood States (POMS), Total Mood Disturbance (TMD), sleep duration, and Perceived Recovery Status (PRS). Exercise intensity was measured with heart rate (HR) and rate of perceived exertion (RPE). TMD predicted enjoyment across all training formats (beta = -0.68 to -0.36, p < 0.001). Sleep duration predicted enjoyment in long HIIT (beta = -.21, p < 0.05), SNQ predicted enjoyment in 1v1 SSGs (beta = 0.29, p < 0.05), PRS predicted enjoyment in short HIIT (beta = 0.20, p < 0.05), and RPE predicted enjoyment in long HIIT (beta = -0.30, p < 0.01). The regression models were statistically significant across all conditions, indicating that 33% to 49% of the variance in enjoyment was explained by well-being and intensity. This study showed that TMD was the strongest predictor of enjoyment. Lower sleep duration and higher RPE reduced enjoyment in long HIIT. In 1v1 SSGs, greater SNQ was associated with higher enjoyment, while in short HIIT, a higher PRS resulted in higher enjoyment. However, potential confounding factors such as individual fitness levels, baseline mood, and training experience may have influenced these findings. Coaches should consider mood, sleep, recovery, and exertion when planning training to enhance enjoyment.		[Xu, Weiqiang; Han, Xinjie; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Silva, Rui Miguel; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial NunAlvares, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Silva, Rui Miguel; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Trybulski, Robert] Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept Wojciech Korfanty, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Yu, Yue] Shandong Normal Univ, Sch Phys & Elect, Jinan 250358, Peoples R China; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial NunAlvares, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001464301200001	66	Article; Article		
J	Xu, Yifan; Wang, Shimeng								Sequencing Effects of Concurrent Resistance and Short Sprint Interval Training on Physical Fitness, and Aerobic and Anaerobic Performance of Karate Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			205	216		10.52082/jssm.2025.205			MAR 2025	2025	This study aimed to evaluate the effects of an 8-week concurrent training (CT) program that combined short sprint interval training (sSIT) and resistance training (RT) in alternating sequences (i.e., sSIT + RT or RT + sSIT) on the physical fitness, aerobic capacity, and anaerobic performance of male karate athletes, in comparison to each training intervention conducted independently. Forty national-level young male athletes volunteered to participate in this study and were divided into sSIT, RT, sSIT + RT, RT + sSIT, and active control (CG) groups, each group consisted of eight athletes and performed 3 days of weekly training intervention including 4 sets of 5 repetitions of 5 seconds of all-out running for sSIT program and also back squats, leg presses, seated knee flexions, and calf raises for 3 sets of 6- 12 repetition maximum for the RT intervention. After the intervention, the sSIT, RT, sSIT + RT and RT + sSIT groups demonstrated improvements in the countermovement vertical jump (CMVJ) (effect size [ES] = 0.64, 0.88, 1.58, 1.55), 20-m sprint (ES =-0.82,-0.62,-1.10,-1.16), 4 x 9-m shuttle run (ES =-0.62,-0.35,-1.15,-0.89), strength (ES = 0.19, 0.44, 0.34, 0.43), peak (ES = 1.27, 0.73, 1.80, 1.53), and mean power output (ES = 0.87, 0.54, 1.37, 1.11), as well as in comparison to the CG (p < 0.05), respectively. Additionally, improvements in aerobic performance were observed in the sSIT, sSIT + RT, and RT + sSIT groups (ES = 0.75, 0.92, 0.62) after the training intervention, and in comparison to CG (p < 0.05), while the RT group did not show significant changes post-training. By comparing the CT groups, no sequencing effects were observed in the adaptations of variables between the sSIT + RT vs. RT + sSIT groups. In conclusion, this study's findings demonstrate that sSIT, RT, and CT with different orders have a positive impact on inducing adaptations in physical fitness, aerobic and anaerobic performance. Additionally, combining sSIT and RT resulted in further adaptations in karate athletes without any differences between CT groups.		[Xu, Yifan] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Wang, Shimeng] Nantong Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Nantong, Peoples R China; [Wang, Shimeng] Nantong Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Nantong, Peoples R China								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001437847200018	53	Article; Article		
J	Park, Choung-Hwa								Effects 0f Acute Upper and Lower Body Resistance Exercise on Cardiovascular Response in Adult Women Through Blood Flow Restriction								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			187	194		10.52082/jssm.2025.187			MAR 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to compare and contrast cardiovascular responses during acute upper body resistance exercise (UBRE) and lower body resistance exercise (LBRE) and resting with or without blood flow restriction (BFR) in adult women. The subjects were 18 adult women (21.5 +/- 2.0 years old) and it was a cross-over experimental design. Resistance exercise consisted of 20% 1-RM, 10 repetitions, and 4 sets. For UBRE, arm curl and bench press exercise, and LBRE squat and leg extension exercise were performed. The change in cardiovascular response during exercise and recovery with or without BFR was significantly different between UBRE (diastolic blood pressure: DBP, mean arterial pressure: MAP, total peripheral resistance: TPR) and LBRE (DBP, MAP, heart rate: HR, Cardiac output: CO) (p < .05). In non-BFR, DBP, MAP, SV, HR, CO, there was a difference in TPR (p < .05). It was concluded LBRE with BFR had a positive effect on the cardiovascular response of the cardiovascular system during exercise and recovery.		[Park, Choung-Hwa] Kyonggi Univ, Grad Sch Alternat Med, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Choung-Hwa] Kyonggi Univ, Grad Sch Alternat Med, Seoul, South Korea								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001437847200016	42	Article; Article		
J	Wen, XiaoYuan; Song, FaMing; Zeng, XiangYun; Lai, XiaoJu; Zhou, Yu								Comparing Physical Fitness Adaptations Induced by Small-Sided Soccer Games with and Without Ball Touch Limitations: A Randomized Parallel and Controlled Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			217	226		10.52082/jssm.2025.217			MAR 2025	2025	While ball touch limitations are frequently implemented in small- sided games (SSGs) to alter physiological and physical responses, existing research has yet to assess their medium-term impact on physical fitness adaptations. This study aimed to compare the effects of SSGs with ball touch limitations (limitedBT) versus free play (freeBT) on adaptations in linear speed, anaerobic power, and aerobic performance. In this randomized parallel controlled trial, 47 youth male soccer players (16.6 +/- 0.6 years) were randomly assigned to limitedBT (n = 16), freeBT (n = 16), or a control group (n = 15). Over six weeks, participants in the experimental group attended three additional SSG sessions per week, lasting 12 to 20 minutes, with formats including 4v4, 3v3, 5v5, and 2v2, where the only difference between groups was that the freeBT group had no ball touch limitations, while the limitedBT group did; the control group only participated in regular training. Players were assessed at baseline and post-intervention for linear speed over 10 and 30 meters, anaerobic power performance using the Repeated Sprint Ability Test (RAST), and aerobic performance using the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery test (YYIRT). While at the baseline, no differences were found between groups, following the intervention, significant differences between the groups were observed in the YYIRT (p < 0.001; ri?? = 0.278), 10m sprint time (p < 0.001; ri?? = 0.367), RAST total time (p < 0.001; ri?? = 0.367) and RAST initial-final decline (p<0.001; ri?? = 0.274). In the case of YYIRT, the control group showed significantly lower values post-intervention compared to both freeBT (p = 0.048) and limitedBT (p < 0.001). For the 10-meter sprint time, limitedBT demonstrated significantly faster times than both freeBT (p = 0.045) and control (p < 0.001), while freeBT was also significantly faster than control (p = 0.042). Regarding RAST total time, limitedBT recorded significantly better times than both freeBT (p = 0.042) and control (p < 0.001), with freeBT also outperforming control (p = 0.045). Finally, in the RAST initial-final decline, the control group performed significantly worse than both limitedBT (p < 0.001) and freeBT (p = 0.034). In conclusion, this study found that limitedBT effectively enhances anaerobic and short-distance sprint performance, while both limitedBT and freeBT formats similarly improve aerobic capacity, suggesting that incorporating ball touch conditions into training can optimize overall player fitness.		[Wen, XiaoYuan; Zeng, XiangYun; Lai, XiaoJu] ChengDu Sports Univ, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China; [Song, FaMing; Zhou, Yu] Civil Aviat Flight Univ China, Deyang, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Wen, XiaoYuan] ChengDu Sports Univ, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001437847200019	32	Article; Article		
J	Klatt, Stefanie; Bea, Lisa-Marie; Brueckner, Sebastian; Jungen, Andre; Noel, Benjamin; Strauss, Bernd								Stress and Anxiety Among Elite Volleyball Referees While Officiating								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			160	171		10.52082/jssm.2025.160			MAR 2025	2025	Effective decision making and communication are essential skills for sports officials, who frequently report experiencing considerable stress across various sports. This study evaluated the impact of a stress management program on elite volleyball referees. The intervention aimed to reduce stress and anxiety while enhancing participated in a randomized intervention guided by two experienced applied sport psychologists. Stress and physiological measures were assessed before and after officiating. Anxiety and officiating-related stress were evaluated using the State-TraitAnxiety Inventory (STAI) and an adapted version of the Basketball Officials Source of Stress Survey (BOSSS-d), respectively. Cardiac responses, including heart rate (HR) and heart rate variability (HRV), were monitored during games. The program's effectiveness was assessed using the Inventory of Quality Sport Psychological Support (QS17). Although the pre- and post-intervention comparisons did not reveal significant changes in anxiety, reported sources of officiating-related stress, or cardiac responses, findings from the QS17 indicated potential benefits of the stress management program for elite volleyball referees, highlighting avenues for sport psychological support and intervento further explore referees' stress experiences during officiating.		[Klatt, Stefanie; Bea, Lisa-Marie; Noel, Benjamin] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sect Cognit Team Sports, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Brueckner, Sebastian; Strauss, Bernd] Univ Munster, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Dept Sport & Exercise Psychol, Munster, Germany; [Jungen, Andre] TU Dortmund, Dept Econ & Business, Dortmund, Germany; [Klatt, Stefanie] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sect Cognit Team Sports, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001425275700001	61	Article; Article		
J	Han, Xinjie; Li, Lu; Chen, Jiawei; Xu, Weiqiang; Trybulski, Robert; Clemente, Filipe Manuel								Comparing The Effects of Small-Sided and Medium-Sided Soccer Games on Physical Fitness Adaptations in Untrained Men: A Randomized Controlled Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			142	153		10.52082/jssm.2025.142			MAR 2025	2025	Smaller formats of sided games (SSG), such as 1v1 to 4v4, are often reported to be more physically and physiologically demanding than medium-sided games (e.g., 6v6 to 8v8). However, there is a lack of experimental research examining the effects of such stimuli on physical fitness adaptations in untrained men. This study aimed to compare the effects of small-sided games (SSG) and medium-sided games (MSG) on various physical fitness parameters (e.g., outcome 1; outcome 2) in untrained men after an 8-week intervention period. A randomized controlled design was used, comparing two experimental groups with a control group that maintained a sedentary lifestyle, which was confirmed through questionnaires. Sixty men (mean age: 18.8 +/- 0.74 years) volunteered for the study. The experimental groups underwent a training intervention three times per week for eight weeks. Participants in the SSG group played games ranging from 1v1 to 3v3, while those in the MSG group engaged in games from 6v6 to 8v8. Before and after the intervention, all participants completed a series of fitness assessments, including the standing long jump (SLJ), vertical jump (VJ), 10- and 30-meter sprints, change of direction (COD), and a 20-meter multi-stage fitness test (MFT). Results revealed that after eight weeks, the SSG group demonstrated significant improvements over the control group in SLJ (p < 0.01; ES = 0.642), VJ (p < 0.01; ES = 0.511), 10-meter sprint (p < 0.01; ES = 0.62), 30-meter sprint (p < 0.01; ES = 0.41), COD (p < 0.01; ES = 0.435), and 20-meter MFT (p < 0.01; ES = 0.64). Similarly, the MSG group showed significant gains compared to the control group in SLJ (p < 0.01; ES = 0.541), VJ (p < 0.01; ES = 0.439), 10-meter sprint (p < 0.01; ES = 0.451), 30-meter sprint (p < 0.01; ES = 0.25), COD (p < 0.01; ES = 0.523), and 20-meter MFT (p < 0.01; ES = 0.693). In conclusion, this study shows that both SSG and MSG are equally effective in enhancing physical fitness parameters in untrained men, despite slight variations in intensity.		[Han, Xinjie; Li, Lu; Xu, Weiqiang] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Chen, Jiawei] Hunan Mech & Elect Polytech, Changsha, Hunan, Peoples R China; [Trybulski, Robert] Upper Silesian Acad, Med Dept Wojciech Korfanty, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001408774100001	55	Article; Article		
J	Jeon, Hyung Gyu; Lee, Inje; Kim, Hyunsoo; Jeong, Heeseong; Ha, Sunghe; Kim, Byong Hun; Lee, Sae Yong								Impact of Fatiguing Exercises on Movement Strategies in Chronic Ankle Instability, Lateral Ankle Sprain Copers, and Controls								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			116	127		10.52082/jssm.2025.116			MAR 2025	2025	While research exists to induce fatigue using isokinetic dynamometers or simple repetition tasks in patients with chronic ankle instability (CAI), there is a lack of research examining landing movement strategies using fatigue protocols that mimic actual sports. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the effects of CAI and fatiguing exercises on the lower-extremity kinematics and kinetics during single-leg drop landings among patients with CAI, lateral ankle sprain (LAS) copers and controls. A cross-sectional study recruited 20 patients with CAI, 20 LAS copers, and 20 controls in abiomechanics laboratory. All participants performed single-leg drop landings before and after the fatiguing exercises. The fatiguing exercise protocol consisted of a cycle including forward, side, and backward running, L-shape running, side hopping, cone jumps, and tuck jumps. This cycle was repeated until rate of perceived exertion (RPE) reached 17 and heart rate (HR) reached 85% of the maximum. Three-dimensional kinematics and kinetics of the lower extremity were collected and analyzed using functional analysis of variance. All participants reached an RPE level of 17.89 +/- 1.02 and HR of 180.64 +/- 7.87 (maximal HR 96.11%) at the last cycle of the fatigue protocol. Several group- by-fatigue interactions were noted. Patients with CAI exhibited increased hip external rotation angle and moment, increased angle and decreased moment of knee valgus, and increased hip and knee extension moments after the fatiguing exercise compared with copers and/or controls. Under fatigue conditions, patients with CAI exhibited biomechanical changes in the proximal joint, a stiffer landing position, and biomechanics associated with ankle injuries. Fatigue resistance training should be a key focus during the rehabilitation of these patients to improve their lower-extremity stability.		[Jeon, Hyung Gyu; Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Inje; Ha, Sunghe] Kyungil Univ, Dept Sports Rehabil Med, Gyongsan, South Korea; [Kim, Hyunsoo] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA USA; [Jeong, Heeseong] Mokwon Univ, Dept Sports & Hlth Management, Daejeon, South Korea; [Kim, Byong Hun] Dongguk Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Gyeongju, South Korea; [Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001407374700001	56	Article; Article		
J	Han, Hsueh-Ping; Yang, Pei-Shan; Lee, Chia-Lun; Chang, Nai-Jen								Comparing The Effectiveness of 10-Minute Dynamic Stretching, Vibration Rolling, and Climbing-Specific Warm-Ups on Exercise Performances in Rock Climbers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			84	92		10.52082/jssm.2025.84			MAR 2025	2025	The rise of sport climbing as a popular Olympic sport has underscored the need for optimal warm-up regimes, especially for rock climbers. This randomized, counterbalanced crossover study investigated the effects of dynamic stretching warm-up (DW) with Thera-Band, vibration rolling warm-up (VR), and climbing-specific warm-up (CW) on the flexibility, muscle strength, and dynamic stability of upper limbs in 22 recreational rock climbers without musculoskeletal diseases. Participants underwent each warm-up method in a randomized order. Each warm-up session lasted 10 minutes. Flexibility was measured with a goniometer, muscle strength was measured with a hand-held dynamometer, and dynamic stability was measured with an Upper Quarter Ybalance test. The findings revealed that all three warm-up methods significantly enhanced range of motion (ROM) of shoulder flexion, internal rotation, external rotation, overhead flexibility, and dynamic stability (p < 0.05). Moreover, VR was notably more effective than DW and CW in augmenting shoulder flexion flexibility and external rotation. All warm-ups increased the maximal muscle strength of the elbow flexors and shoulder extensors, but did not in finger flexors. CW demonstrated superior change improvements in the maximal muscle strength of the shoulder external rotators compared to DW (p = 0.04). This study highlights our design, recommending all three warm-ups to enhance flexibility, muscle strength, and dynamic stability of the upper limbs. Specifically, VR is the most effective for improving flexibility, while CW provides superior gains in shoulder external rotator strength. These insights can help climbers and coaches develop targeted warm-up strategies to optimize performance.		[Han, Hsueh-Ping; Chang, Nai-Jen] ROC Mil Acad, Dept Sports Sci, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Yang, Pei-Shan; Lee, Chia-Lun; Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, PhD Program Biomed Engn, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Yang, Pei-Shan; Lee, Chia-Lun; Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Dept Sports Med, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Natl Sun Yat Sen Univ, Ctr Phys & Hlth Educ, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ Hosp, Dept Med Res, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Precis Sports Med & Hlth Promot Ctr, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Dept Sports Med, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001394012200001	42	Article; Article		
J	Maemichi, Toshihiro; Ogawa, Yuki; Wakamiya, Kazuki; Yamaguchi, Ryusei; Nagamoto, Hideaki; Kumai, Tsukas								Elucidation of The Effect of Flossing on Improving Joint Range of Motion								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			75	83		10.52082/jssm.2025.75			MAR 2025	2025	Flossing has been hypothesized to improve joint range of motion (flexibility), potentially through enhanced fascial gliding, although this mechanism remains speculative. This study aimed to clarify the effect of flossing, a new type of myofascial release, on joint range of motion by focusing on tissue gliding properties. This study involved 14 healthy participants (aged 18 - 25 years) who performed two types of active exercises with floss bands wrapped around their lower legs. As a control, the participants performed the same active exercises on different days without floss bands. Measurements taken before and after the intervention included ankle dorsiflexion range of motion, ankle plantar flexion maximum voluntary contraction, medial head of the gastrocnemius muscle thickness using ultrasound, and fascial hardness at five locations according to depth. Lower leg flossing significantly increased ankle dorsiflexion range of motion by 28.3 +/- 19.9% (control: 14.6 +/- 12.4%, P = 0.04, d = 0.83). No significant changes were observed in maximum voluntary plantar flexion contraction or overall muscle and fascial hardness. However, the rate of change in hardness showed a trend toward reduction in the superficial fascia and the upper and middle gastrocnemius muscles, with the upper gastrocnemius muscle exhibiting a statistically significant decrease in hardness (P = 0.05). Flossing showed trends toward reducing superficial muscle and fascial hardness, particularly in the superficial fascia and the upper gastrocnemius muscle, gests that potential improvements in intertissue gliding around the fascia could contribute to an increased range of motion.		[Maemichi, Toshihiro; Kumai, Tsukas] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Maemichi, Toshihiro] Toyo Univ, Inst Life Innovat Studies, Saitama, Japan; [Ogawa, Yuki; Wakamiya, Kazuki; Yamaguchi, Ryusei; Nagamoto, Hideaki] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Maemichi, Toshihiro; Kumai, Tsukas] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001383120700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Xia, Yulin; Zhang, Hui								Relative Age Effect Among World-Class Jump Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			9	19		10.52082/jssm.2025.9			MAR 2025	2025	The relative age effect (RAE), as a widely recognized phenomenon in the field of sports, reveals the bias in talent selection across various sporting disciplines and the neglect of certain potentially gifted athletes. The study aims to analyze RAE incidence and athletic performance among the top 100 world-ranked high jump and long jump athletes, as well as to examine the differences across the five continents. Finally, successful professional athletes are divided into two groups, namely the "All-Phase Success (AS)" and the "Senior Success (SS)" based on their success during their youth. A comparison is made between the performance and age differences of these two groups. The results indicate: 1) the RAE is present across all age groups (U18, U20, Senior) and both sexes in the high jump and long jump events (except for the senior male high jump). 2) Athletes in the AS group are consistently 2 - 3 years younger at each key stage of their athletic careers compared to those in the SS group. 3) Relatively younger athletes exhibit higher transition rates during their youth period compared to relatively older athletes. However, despite the larger number of relatively older athletes, AS athletes still outperform SS athletes in high jump and long jump events.		[Xia, Yulin; Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Coll Educ, 866 Yuhangtang Rd, Hangzhou 310058, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Coll Educ, 866 Yuhangtang Rd, Hangzhou 310058, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001378917100001	44	Article; Article		
J	Gu, Zhengqiu; Gao, Chong; Zheng, Hang; Liao, Kaifang; Bishop, Chris; Hughes, Jonathan; Yin, Mingyue; Bi, Zhiyuan; Li, Zhan; Li, Jian; Chen, Meixia; Wei, Jianxi; Li, Yongming								Accentuated Eccentric Loading in Countermovement Jumps Vs. Drop Jumps: Effects on Jump Performance and Strength in A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				24	1			20	30		10.52082/jssm.2025.20			MAR 2025	2025	This study examined the effects of Accentuated Eccentric Loading Countermovement Jump (AEL CMJ) training on jump performance, lower body strength, sprint performance, and change of direction ability, compared to drop jump (DJ) training. This study used a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with a parallel design. Forty men physical education students (Mean f SD: age 22.60 f 3.24 years, body mass 75.21 f 8.12 kg, height 1.79 f 0.07 m) were randomly assigned to AEL (n = 14), DJ (n = 13), or a control group (CON, n = 13). The AEL and DJ groups trained three times per week for 8 weeks, while the CON group maintained their usual routines. All groups with similar levels of physical activity outside the training. Pre-, mid- (4 weeks), and post-intervention (8 weeks) assessments measured jump performance (CMJ and squat jump (SJ)), 1RM squat strength, 30 m sprint time, and change of direction (T-test). A mixed-effects model evaluated group and time effects. Significant group x time interactions were observed for CMJ height (P = 0.006), with both AEL and DJ training improving CMJ (AEL: +11.8%, ES = 0.77; DJ: +7.7%, ES = 0.47), SJ height (AEL: +5.7%, ES = 0.37; DJ: +11.3%, ES = 0.66), and 1RM squat (AEL: +7.0%, ES = 0.44; DJ: +8.4%, ES = 0.46) at 8 weeks. Neither training method significantly improved sprint or change of direction performance. Additionally, no significant gains were seen in any indicator at 4 weeks. These results indicate that AEL CMJ and DJ training both effectively enhance vertical jump and strength, positioning AEL CMJ as an effective alternative or complement to DJ training.		[Gu, Zhengqiu; Gao, Chong; Zheng, Hang; Yin, Mingyue; Bi, Zhiyuan; Li, Zhan; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Liao, Kaifang] Chengdu Sport Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Hughes, Jonathan] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Chen, Meixia] Shanghai Minhang Expt High Sch, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wei, Jianxi] Army Engn Univ PLA, Res Ctr Mil Exercise Sci, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001381120200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Musa, Rabiu Muazu; Majeed, Anwar P. P. Abdul; Maliki, Ahmad Bisyri Husin Musawi; Kosni, Norlaila Azura								Personalized workload management in badminton using a machine learning model								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1226	1238		10.1177/17479541251320539			JUN 2025	2025	Badminton is a demanding sport that requires effective workload management to enhance performance and prevent injuries. This study developed a machine learning-based Decision Tree (DT) model to create personalized workload management strategies for 73 young elite badminton players, averaging 6 years of experience. Players underwent anthropometric and fitness assessments, with external loads measured via triaxial accelerometers and internal loads through rate of perceived exertion (RPE) during training and competition. K-means clustering categorized players into high, moderate, and low external workload levels. High-load players were generally older, taller, heavier, and exhibited superior flexibility, grip strength, and countermovement jump performance. Moderate-load players excelled in balance and leg endurance, while low-load players showed greater upper body strength, quicker reaction times, and higher perceived exertion. A sensitivity analysis was conducted to evaluate the impact of tree depth on model performance, followed by a comparative assessment of the Decision Tree (DT) model and multinomial Logistic Regression (MLR). The results demonstrated that the DT model outperformed the MLR, achieving 92% accuracy in predicting external loads compared to the MLR's 57%. This highlights the DT model's superior capability to provide tailored workload recommendations, thereby enhancing athletic performance and reducing the risk of injury.		[Musa, Rabiu Muazu] Univ Malaysia Terengganu, Ctr Fundamental & Continuing Educ, Kuala Nerus 21030, Terengganu, Malaysia; [Majeed, Anwar P. P. Abdul] Sunway Univ, Sch Engn & Technol SET, Bandar Sunway, Selangor Darul, Malaysia; [Maliki, Ahmad Bisyri Husin Musawi] Univ Pertahanan Nas Malaysia UPNM, Def Fitness Acad, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Kosni, Norlaila Azura] Univ Teknol MARA, Fac Sport Sci & Recreat, Pahang Branch, Shah Alam, Malaysia; [Musa, Rabiu Muazu] Univ Malaysia Terengganu, Ctr Fundamental & Continuing Educ, Kuala Nerus 21030, Terengganu, Malaysia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001433976400001	64	Article; Article		
J	de Souza, Joao Victor Moretti; Zamboni, Kaio Julio; Santos, Thiago de Oliveira; Mezzadri, Fernando Marinho								(Dis)connection between sports development and high-performance in Brazilian sports policies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1446	1456		10.1177/17479541251320534			AUG 2025	2025	The transition from sports development to high-performance is a topic that is present in the academic literature. However, there is a gap regarding the participation in government programs, representation of clubs and school competitions during development, and the reflection of these actions in high performance. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate if the participation in listed actions can influence the receipt of government incentives in athlete's careers. A questionnaire was used to collect responses from high-performance Brazilian athletes, asking about the moment of sports development. The main results show that representing sports clubs increases the chance of receiving more resources, and, as a proxy, being more successful, in a career, whereas competing in school competitions and participating in government programs during development decreases the chance of receiving higher amounts. The results highlight the disconnection between Brazilian sports policies from a talent development point of view, with the need to adapt these policies to improve the chance of better results.		[de Souza, Joao Victor Moretti; Zamboni, Kaio Julio; Mezzadri, Fernando Marinho] Univ Fed Parana, Phys Educ Dept, Curitiba, Brazil; [Santos, Thiago de Oliveira] Univ Porto, Fac Desporto, Porto, Portugal; [de Souza, Joao Victor Moretti] Univ Fed Parana, Curitiba, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001434811400001	53	Article; Article		
J	Yilmaz, Vedat; Amca, Arif Mithat								Mocap-based aiming point trajectory assessment in shooting and the effect of marker dimensions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1239	1249		10.1177/17479541251319970			JUN 2025	2025	The aiming point is the most crucial criterion for a successful shot in all shooting events. This study investigated the motion-capture (Mocap) based aiming point assessment method in three steps: the static fluctuations of the markers in four dimensions were observed; the aiming point results of the Mocap-based method were compared with laser trace on the target in static and dynamic conditions; the effects of marker dimensions on the aiming point trajectories were examined. A wooden lath, with two sets of reflective markers in four dimensions (12-18 mm) and a laser, was fixed on a tripod and aimed at the center of the target. The lath was left stationary and then moved twenty times as in shooting. While a camera followed the laser trace on the target, the Mocap system followed the markers, and aiming point data were calculated. Compared to larger markers, significantly smaller errors in static marker fluctuations were found for the 12 mm marker (p < 0.008). Aiming point trajectory length in static conditions showed significant differences between marker pairs and laser. No significant differences between the laser and the marker pairs of 12, 14, and 16 mm were noticed in dynamic conditions. The Bland-Altman analysis showed that the 12 mm marker pair had the smallest bias and a strong agreement with the laser-based method.		[Yilmaz, Vedat] Gendarmerie & Coast Guard Acad, Inst Forens Sci, Dept Criminalist, Ankara, Turkiye; [Amca, Arif Mithat] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Biomech Res Grp, Ankara, Turkiye; [Yilmaz, Vedat] Gendarmerie & Coast Guard Acad, Inst Forens Sci, Dept Criminalist, Ankara, Turkiye								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001434803100001	47	Article; Article		
J	Ross, Steven; Ripley, Nicholas J.; Mcmahon, John J.; Comfort, Paul								Practices and perceptions in hamstring training for injury risk mitigation: A survey-based mixed-methods analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			988	1004		10.1177/17479541251317123			JUN 2025	2025	In this study, the practices and perceptions of sport and exercise practitioners regarding hamstring training for injury risk mitigation were investigated. Hamstring strain injuries (HSIs) remain a prevalent issue across sports, despite extensive research. An anonymous survey was conducted to assess how practitioners integrate evidence-based strategies, such as the Nordic hamstring exercise (NHE) and high-speed running (HSR), into their training programmes. The survey included both fixed-response and open-ended questions, enabling a mixed-methods analysis of training approaches. A total of 47 practitioners responded, revealing that most incorporate the NHE and HSR into both in-season and off-season training. However, there were notable differences in volume, with higher HSR distances and NHE volumes programmed in the off-season. Despite widespread adoption of the NHE, practitioners indicated that the volumes of NHE used are still likely higher than the smallest effective dosages reported in the literature. Thematic analyses highlighted several key challenges practitioners face, including athlete compliance with training programmes, multi-disciplinary team coordination, and time limitations. Practitioners emphasised the importance of exposing athletes to maximal running efforts to reduce HSI risk, while also integrating strength training exercises that target the hamstrings. The study serves to highlight a need for further improvements in communication among teams and better athlete education which could enhance the effectiveness of hamstring training programmes. Additionally, the findings of the current study indicate a need for future studies that explore the combined effects of resistance training and HSR, as well as how scientific recommendations can be more effectively implemented in practical settings.		[Ross, Steven; Ripley, Nicholas J.; Mcmahon, John J.; Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Psychol & Sport, Salford, England; [Mcmahon, John J.] Hawkin Dynam, Westbrook, ME USA; [Comfort, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Strength & Power Res Grp, Joondalup, Australia; [Ross, Steven] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Psychol & Sport, Salford, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001433979900001	25	Article; Article		
J	Dhillon, Chloe L.; Nicholls, Scott B.; Woodward, Jon								The perception and value of performance analysis within elite academy football: A comparison between phases								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1532	1540		10.1177/17479541251320606			AUG 2025	2025	The originality of study ascertained coaches' engagement and integration of Performance Analysis (PA) practice across the Foundation (FP), Youth Development (YDP), and Professional Development (PDP) phases within elite academy youth football. Sixty-five (65) coaches (experience 5.5 +/- 4.0) completed an online survey focusing upon their utilisation and access to analysis tools, recollection and reflective practice, communication and professional relationship, suggested improvements and current value of PA services. Likert scales (Always, Usually, Sometimes, Rarely, No Access) were used to facilitate comparison. Analysis was undertaken using Kruskal-Wallis and Dunn's post hoc tests to identify differences in response provision between academy phases. The engagement and integration of PA practices varied significantly across phases due to time, resources, and buy-in. PA usage progressed from FP to PDP, with greater integration and more sophisticated tools becoming prevalent towards the latter stages of a player's academy journey. Overall satisfaction with PA services was high, but clear improvement areas were highlighted, particularly around Independent Learning Plans (ILP) and the presence of analysts during training sessions across all phases. Despite the introduction of the Elite Player Performance Plan (EPPP), the study's significance highlights insufficient guidance on how PA should be distributed across phases. This has led to a disproportion of PA across phases with the potential benefits for the FP and YDP being under realised.		[Dhillon, Chloe L.; Nicholls, Scott B.; Woodward, Jon] Univ Derby, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Derby, England; [Nicholls, Scott B.] Univ Derby, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Derby, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001433973100001	62	Article; Article		
J	Mikhail, David; Sugimoto, Dai; Tadros, Meena; Van Pelt, Robert; Radel, Luke; Soma, David; Ulman, Sophia; Miller, Shane; Jones, Jacob								Injury differences between youth male and female American football players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	4			337	344		10.1080/00913847.2025.2468632			JUL 4 2025	2025	Objectives American football continues to be a popular and rapidly growing sport among both males and females, with relatively little research concerning injuries for the latter - especially in the youth population. The current study aims to evaluate the differences in the epidemiology of injured body parts and injury diagnoses between youth male and female American football players. Methods Injury data for male and female American football players were collected over a 10- year period from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) and retrospectively reviewed. Patients between ages 4 and 18 years with a medical injury/condition related to American football were included. Descriptive analyses were performed for all data including injured body parts, injury diagnoses and setting, demographics, and medical disposition. Odds ratio (OR), 95% CI, and p-values (p < 0.05) were used for the statistical significance between the two groups. Results A total of 82,174 American football injuries were found in the NEISS dataset, 95.0% of which were male with a mean age of 13.0 +/- 2.9 years. The most injured body parts were the head (17.7%), finger (13.8%), knee (9.2%), shoulder (8.7%), and ankle (8.0%). The most prevalent injury diagnoses were fractures (24.5%), sprains/strains (22.7%), contusions/bruises (12.2%), concussions (9.8%), and internal injuries (7.1%). Males were more likely to suffer head (OR = 1.32, p < 0.001), knee (OR = 1.23, p < 0.001) and shoulder (OR = 2.19, p < 0.001) injuries and females suffered more finger (OR = 3.22, p < 0.001) and ankle (OR = 1.25, p < 0.001) injuries. Males were more likely to suffer concussions (OR = 1.50, p < 0.001) whereas females sustained more sprains/strains (OR = 1.32, p < 0.001). Conclusion Youth male American football players had a greater likelihood of sustaining concussions and head, knee, and shoulder injuries, whereas females were more likely to have sprains/strains, finger, and ankle injuries. Future studies are warranted to further explore how these differences may be attributed to play style and sex-based physiologic and development differences.		[Mikhail, David; Tadros, Meena; Ulman, Sophia; Miller, Shane; Jones, Jacob] Univ Texas Southwestern Med Ctr, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd, Dallas, TX 75390 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Waseda Univ, Tokyo, Japan; [Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Van Pelt, Robert; Ulman, Sophia; Miller, Shane; Jones, Jacob] Scottish Rite Children, Dallas, TX USA; [Radel, Luke; Soma, David] Mayo Clin, Rochester, MN USA; [Mikhail, David] Univ Texas Southwestern Med Ctr, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd, Dallas, TX 75390 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001433376900001	44	Article; Article		
J	Fiala, Vojtech; Zywiczynski, Przemyslaw; Turecek, Petr; Wacewicz, Slawomir								Somatometric profiles of successful male professional heavyweight boxers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1162	1175		10.1177/17479541241311094			JUN 2025	2025	Body mass is the most important predictor of success in fighting between conspecifics, with the heavier individual winning most fights. For this reason, the opponents in combat sports are usually weight-matched. The exception is the heavyweight division, which has no weight limit. Elite heavyweight athletes may cluster around an unknown global heavyweight optimum or compete at an individually specific optimal weight. We used comprehensive data (taken from boxrec.com) on bout outcomes for active male professional heavyweight boxers and Bayesian logistic regressions to explore the association between anthropometric predictors and the probability of winning. We identified the population-level optimum weight for heavyweight boxers at around 110 kg. The effects of age and height on the probability of winning were, however, much stronger than the effect of weight. Changing division during a boxer's professional career also affected performance: heavyweight athletes who during their professional careers also fought in lower weight classes were 19.9% [31.1-5.6%] less likely to win a bout in the heavyweight class. The study points to the importance of anthropometric measures for long-term success in professional heavyweight boxing and suggests a cut-off point, at which on average the marginal benefits of being a heavier boxer drop to 0.		[Fiala, Vojtech; Zywiczynski, Przemyslaw; Wacewicz, Slawomir] Nicolaus Copernicus Univ, Ctr Language Evolut Studies, Torun, Poland; [Fiala, Vojtech; Turecek, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Sci, Dept Philosophy & Hist Sci, Prague, Czech Republic; [Turecek, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Ctr Theoret Study, Prague, Czech Republic; [Turecek, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Czech Acad Sci, Prague, Czech Republic; [Fiala, Vojtech] Nicolaus Copernicus Univ, Ctr Language Evolut Studies, Coll Maius, Room 26,ul Fosa Staromiejska 3, PL-87100 Torun, Poland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001432225100001	43	Article; Article		
J	Hill, Megan; Mitchell, Siobhan; Brookman, Joe; Mcgee, Darragh; Cumming, Sean P.								Adolescent player development within institutional constraints in academy football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1047	1058		10.1177/17479541241312280			JUN 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate academy football coaches' perceptions and experiences of managing adolescent growth and maturation within the constraints of an English Premier League academy. Using a longitudinal mixed method design, 98 under 12-16 players were assessed for maturity status, growth velocities and match performance grade. Interviews were conducted in parallel, with their nine respective coaches. The quantitative and qualitative data were then combined to generate a rich, contextualised understanding. One case study is also presented as an archetypal example. Findings are presented in three themes. Coaches described the conflict between the value of winning and player development, difficulties in judging potential and performance, and the challenges of developing players in an elite competitive environment. Findings emphasise the intricacies of managing and developing adolescent athletes in academy football. Coaches in this study were challenged by the individual differences in growth and maturation and the elite, competitive and selective nature of football academies and the constraints of this environment exacerbate these challenges.		[Hill, Megan] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, England; [Mitchell, Siobhan] Univ Exeter Med Sch, Publ Hlth & Sport Sci, South Cloisters,St Lukes Campus,Heavitree Rd, Exeter EX1 2LU, England; [Brookman, Joe] Southampton Football Club, Dept Sports Sci & Med, Southampton SO40 4WR, England; [Mcgee, Darragh; Cumming, Sean P.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Claverton Down, Bath BA2 7AY, England; [Hill, Megan] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001428750100001	75	Article; Article		
J	Viera, Heinrich Leon Souza; Leite-Nunes, Tiago Dutra; Gidiel-Machado, Lucas; Laporta, Lorenzo Iop; Royes, Luiz Fernando Freire; Saccol, Michele Forgiarini; Lanferdini, Fabio Juner								Assessment of shoulder joint and muscle characteristics side-asymmetry in professional padel players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	9			2481	2497		10.1080/14763141.2025.2468320			SEP 2 2025	2025	Padel is a worldwide racket sport that is growing each year. The unilateral upper limb repetitive movements of this sport may lead to shoulder structural and functional adaptations, which may alter muscle mechanics, however evidence is limited. We aimed to investigate if there is morphological, mechanical and functional shoulder symmetry between upper limbs of professional padel players. Fourthteen (7 male and 7 female) professional Brazilian padel players were evaluated at supraspinatus muscle thickness (MT), stiffness, shoulder rotation range of motion (ROM), shoulder internal and external rotation peak torques and their ratios (ER/IR) and fatigue index torque. Subsequently, were compared all variables between dominant and non-dominant sides (alpha = 0.05). Total work, IR and ER absolute and normalised torque were higher in the dominant limb (p < 0.05). Moreover, 78% and 64% of the athletes presented reduced ER/IR peak torque ratio values in the dominant and non-dominant upper limb, respectively. No differences in supraspinatus MT, stiffness and shoulder ROM were found. Our study found that Brazilian professional padel players have asymmetrical shoulder ER/IR peak torques ratio. Therefore, it's recommended for padel players to strengthen the ER of the dominant shoulder and both IR and ER of the non-dominant shoulder to address side-asymmetry and reduced ER peak torques.		[Viera, Heinrich Leon Souza; Leite-Nunes, Tiago Dutra; Gidiel-Machado, Lucas; Saccol, Michele Forgiarini; Lanferdini, Fabio Juner] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Dept Metodos & Tecn Desport, Lab Biomecan, Santa Maria, Brazil; [Laporta, Lorenzo Iop] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Ctr Educ Fis & Desportos, Nucleo Estudos Performance Anal Esportia, Santa Maria, Brazil; [Royes, Luiz Fernando Freire] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Dept Bioquim & Biol Mol, Lab Bioquim Exercicio, Santa Maria, Brazil; [Viera, Heinrich Leon Souza] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Dept Metodos & Tecn Desport, Lab Biomecan, Santa Maria, Brazil								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001433593000001	56	Article; Article		
J	van Middelaar, Robbert P.; van Rijswijk, Nicolle; Wouda, Frank; Veltink, Peter H.; Reenalda, Jasper								Estimating sagittal knee and ankle moment during running using only inertial measurement units: a top-down inverse dynamics approach								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	3			358	378		10.1080/14763141.2025.2465793			MAR 4 2026	2026	The net joint moment is a commonly investigated kinetic quantity in running but currently requires force plates and optical motion capture. This study proposes a physics-based top-down inverse dynamics method to estimate net sagittal knee and ankle moment across three speeds using only inertial measurement units (IMUs). This method does not require musculoskeletal modelling, machine learning, pressure insoles, or centre of pressure. The top-down method was validated against a 2D IMU-driven/3D marker-driven OpenSim model and an IMU-based bottom-up inverse dynamics approach. Strong correlations were found for the top-down net sagittal knee (0.87-0.96) and ankle moment (0.83-0.90) during stance. Maximum knee extension moment showed similar values during stance compared to IMU-based references, while maximum ankle plantar flexion moment was significantly higher. The marker-driven OpenSim model showed overall significantly lower values. This study highlights the potential of top-down inverse dynamics in calculating net sagittal knee moment during running using only IMUs, while the sagittal ankle moment was less accurate and needs a different approach. This method could potentially be used for running (i.e. providing feedback) during training sessions. However, a deeper understanding of upper body kinematics and kinetics is needed, as the top-down method is highly dependent on upper body movement.		[van Middelaar, Robbert P.; van Rijswijk, Nicolle; Wouda, Frank; Veltink, Peter H.; Reenalda, Jasper] Univ Twente, Fac Elect Engn Math & Comp Sci, Dept Biomed Signals & Syst, Enschede, Netherlands; [Wouda, Frank] Movella Technol, Enschede, Netherlands; [van Middelaar, Robbert P.] Univ Twente, Fac Elect Engn Math & Comp Sci, Dept Biomed Signals & Syst, Enschede, Netherlands								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001432793900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Fontanier, Vincent; Vergonjeanne, Marion; Eon, Pauline; Bruchard, Arnaud; Laplaud, David								Effect of open kinetic chain exercises during the first weeks of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction rehabilitation: A systematic review and meta-analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				95	108		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.02.005			MAR 2025	2025	Background: Closed kinetic chain (CKC) exercises are the gold standard for rehabilitation after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACL-R). Open kinetic chain (OKC) exercises may provide benefits, but their use in the early stages remains controversial. Objective: To determine the effect of OKC exercises during the first weeks of rehabilitation after ACL-R. Study design: Systematic review and meta-analysis. Methods: A comprehensive literature search was conducted according to PRISMA guidelines from inception to April 2024. The methodological quality of the included studies was assessed using the ROBINS I and RoB-2 tools. The changes in outcomes from pre-to post-intervention were quantified using standardized mean differences. Results: Overall, the methodological quality was low and the population, intervention, comparison, outcome, time (PICOT) criteria were heterogeneous. However, OKC was found to have beneficial effects on patient reported outcomes (PROMs), strength, function, and return to play, especially when performed at least four weeks after surgery in rehabilitation programs that began with CKC exercises. Conclusion: The evidence suggests that OKC exercises may provide benefits and no adverse effects in the early stages of rehabilitation after ACL-R, particularly when initiated after CKC exercises. These findings are consistent with current clinical practice guideline recommendations for the inclusion of OKC in rehabilitation programs.		[Fontanier, Vincent; Vergonjeanne, Marion; Eon, Pauline; Bruchard, Arnaud; Laplaud, David] Medinet Learning, Res Dept, Paris, France; [Laplaud, David] Medinet Learning, Sci Unit, 4 Pl Marceau, F-75008 Paris, France								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001432527900001	62	Article; Article		
J	Li, Jun; Wu, Kaicheng; Xu, Zhen; Ye, Dongqiang; Wang, Jichao; Suo, Bokai; Lu, Zeyu; Zhan, Jianglong; Fu, Weijie								Effects of shoe bending stiffness on the coordination variability of lower extremities in alternating jump rope skipping								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2432	2447		10.1080/14763141.2025.2467439			AUG 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate how different longitudinal bending stiffness (LBS) in jump rope shoes affect the coordination variability of lower extremity segments and athletic performance during alternating jump rope skipping (AJRS). Thirty-two elite male athletes performed 30-s AJRS tasks wearing shoes with LBS measured at 3.1 Nm/rad (no-carbon-fibre-plate jump rope shoes, NS), 5.1 Nm/rad (low-stiffness-carbon-fibre-plate jump rope shoes, LS) and 7.6 Nm/rad (high-stiffness-carbon-fibre-plate jump rope shoes, HS). Motion capture tracked lower extremity kinematics. The HS shoes exhibited a more ground contacts in the first stage (p < 0.05) and a shorter average ground contact time (p < 0.05). The HS exhibited a smaller metatarsophalangeal joint (MTPJ) extension angle during 30-44% of the stance phase (p < 0.05), smaller MARP (mean absolute relative phase) of the MTPJ-ankle segments (p < 0.001) and smaller CRP (continuous relative phase) during 24-45% of the stance phase (p < 0.05). Coordination variability of the MTPJ-ankle segments was negatively correlated with the number of ground contacts during AJRS (p < 0.01, adjust R2 = 0.192). HS could provide enhanced stability by reducing coordination variability and enhance performance during the first stage in ARJS. These findings could provide insights for guiding future research and development in jump rope shoe design.		[Li, Jun; Wu, Kaicheng; Xu, Zhen; Wang, Jichao; Suo, Bokai; Lu, Zeyu; Zhan, Jianglong; Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Li, Jun] Wuxi Taihu Univ, Sch Hlth & Nursing, Wuxi, Peoples R China; [Ye, Dongqiang] Shanghai Warrior Shoes Co Ltd, Innovat & Dev Dept, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001428111600001	55	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Haiyu; Mathes, Justus; Caparros, Marc Garnica; Memmert, Daniel								Assessing the impact of substitution rule changes in European football leagues								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1107	1124		10.1177/17479541251316162			JUN 2025	2025	Four years after the COVID-19 pandemic, a major change in professional European football was increasing allowed substitutions from three to five players per game. This study explores the effects of this regulatory change on four major European leagues (Ligue 1, La Liga, Serie A, and the Premier League) from the 2015-2016 to the 2022-2023 seasons. Descriptive statistics and a Linear Mixed Model were used to study the impact of the rule change on temporal distribution and number of players substituted. To investigate the change in the immediate impact of substitutions, we created a quantifiable variable and compared pre- and post-rule change results. Additionally, a Difference-in-Difference model examined the new rule's effect on final match outcomes. The results show that clubs are tactically adjusting, with an increased use of halftime substitutions and more flexible second half strategies. Additionally, the variability in the immediate impact of substitution on the scoreline and the decrease in final score difference emphasize the crucial role of substitution in tactics. This study provides a comprehensive understanding of how rule adjustments in football can influence game dynamics and team strategies, offering valuable insights into the tactical adaptations prompted by regulatory changes.		[Zhang, Haiyu; Mathes, Justus; Caparros, Marc Garnica; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Zhang, Haiyu] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001427158400001	55	Article; Article		
J	Durrant, Ian; Wedatilake, Thamindu; Warren, Anna; Callaghan, Samuel J.; Osguthorpe, David; Harland, Andrew; Howe, Louis P.; Tallent, Jamie								Evolution of physical characteristics from 2010 to 2022 in the England women's cricket team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1190	1195		10.1177/17479541251318189			JUN 2025	2025	The present study aimed to investigate the changes in the physical profile of the England women's cricket team over a 13-year period. Physical profiles of 45 female players were retrospectively analysed from 2010 to 2022. Mixed linear modelling was employed to examine changes in various physical parameters including 10 m and 20 m sprints, countermovement jump (CMJ) height, aerobic fitness (measured through the Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test level 1, Yo-Yo-IR1), and push and pull strength endurance across time. There was a significant increase in Yo-Yo IR1 performance over time (P < 0.001), with the distance covered improving from 1077 metres in 2011 to 1666 metres in 2014. Both 10 m (P < 0.001) and 20 m (P < 0.001) sprint times significantly improved up to 2014. Furthermore, there were significant increases in push (P < 0.001) and pull (P < 0.001) strength endurance across time. However, no significant changes were observed in run-2 performance. Although there were significant changes (P < 0.001) in CMJ height across time, no clear trends were evident for year-to-year changes. Overall, the study demonstrated a significant physical evolution of the England Women's Cricket Team over 13 years, characterised by high aerobic fitness and upper body strength endurance. Future physical development should therefore focus on developing speed and change of direction qualities.		[Durrant, Ian] Bangladesh Cricket Board, Sci & Med, Dhaka, Bangladesh; [Wedatilake, Thamindu; Warren, Anna; Osguthorpe, David] England & Wales Cricket Board, Sci & Med, London, England; [Callaghan, Samuel J.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Technol & Hlth Sci, London, England; [Harland, Andrew] Cent Sparks, Sci & Med, Birmingham, England; [Howe, Louis P.; Tallent, Jamie] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Essex, England; [Tallent, Jamie] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Tallent, Jamie] Univ Essex, Wivenhoe Campus, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001427205500001	22	Article; Article		
J	Conceicao-Santos, Danilo Franca; Lopes-Silva, Joao Paulo; Kons, Rafael Lima; Franchini, Emerson								The participation of junior-age athletes in senior judo world tour competitions: Effects of timing and quality of the event								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1564	1572		10.1177/17479541251319441			AUG 2025	2025	This study investigates the influence of early competition exposure on the performance of junior judo athletes in senior-level World Championships and Olympic Games. Specifically, we examine the relationship between participation in different types of senior international competitions-Continental Championships, Grand Prix (GP), and Grand Slam (GS)-during the junior years and the subsequent success at major senior events. Data from 3560 judo athletes were analyzed to assess the impact of the number of competitions participated in and the timing of these events relative to the transition to the senior level. Our results indicate that judo athletes who participated more frequently in GP and GS events during their junior years had higher odds of medal success at senior competitions compared to those who focused on Continental Championships, with odds ranging from 1.58 to 3.05. Additionally, judo athletes who increased their participation in competitions during their third junior year exhibited improved odds of success, although selection bias-where higher-performing judo athletes are more likely to be exposed to elite competitions-must be considered. These findings indicate that a higher participation in higher-level competitions, particularly in the later stages of junior development, is associated with a greater likelihood of medaling in senior-level World Championships and Olympic Games. This association suggests that junior athletes capable of competing successfully against senior opponents demonstrate a readiness and merit that supports their participation at this level. Furthermore, the strategic selection of competition types, particularly GP and GS events, should be prioritized in talent development programs to maximize athletes' potential at the senior level.		[Conceicao-Santos, Danilo Franca; Lopes-Silva, Joao Paulo; Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sport Dept, Martial Arts & Combat Sports Res Grp, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lopes-Silva, Joao Paulo] CESMAC Univ Ctr, Dept Phys Educ, Maceio, AL, Brazil; [Lopes-Silva, Joao Paulo] Cesmac Univ Ctr, Appl Res Grp Performance & Hlth, Maceio, AL, Brazil; [Lopes-Silva, Joao Paulo] Cesmac Univ Ctr, Postgrad Program Environm Syst Anal, Maceio, AL, Brazil; [Kons, Rafael Lima] Univ Fed Bahia, Dept Phys Educ, Salvador, Brazil; [Conceicao-Santos, Danilo Franca] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sport Dept, Martial Arts & Combat Sports Res Grp, Sao Paulo, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001426136900001	19	Article; Article		
J	Lima, Guilherme Ribeiro; Carminatti, Lorival Jose; Turnes, Tiago								Temporal analysis of elite men's doubles beach tennis matches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	5			2102	2108		10.1177/17479541251319279			OCT 2025	2025	Beach tennis (BT) is a fast-paced racket sport played by two teams of two players on a sand court. Despite its growing popularity, limited data exist on match dynamics, especially regarding active play duration and work-to-rest ratios in high-level BT. This study aimed to describe the temporal characteristics and work-to-rest ratios of elite men's doubles BT matches. Official videos of all finals from the World Championship and Sand Series during the 2022/2023 season of the professional World BT Tour were analyzed. Metrics recorded included match, set, game, and point durations, work-to-rest ratios, points per match, touches per point, and game speed. Seven final matches with ten elite players were analyzed. Matches lasted 1 h 16 min 41.71 s +/- 12 min 30.05 s, with only 06 min 32.55 s +/- 1 min 12.26 s (8.6%) spent in active play. The work-to-rest ratio ranged from 1:8 to 1:12. Each match had 106 +/- 10 points, with 4.6 +/- 0.5 touches per point, and points were completed in 3.65 +/- 0.5 s, averaging one touch every 0.79 +/- 0.04 s. Elite men's BT is characterized by short, high-intensity points with a work-to-rest ratio of 1:8 to 1:12, which has implications for training strategies focused on bursts of high-intensity efforts and recovery periods.		[Lima, Guilherme Ribeiro; Turnes, Tiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Phys Effort Lab, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Carminatti, Lorival Jose] Santa Catarina State Univ, Human Performance Res Grp, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Turnes, Tiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Phys Effort Lab, CDS, Rua Deputado Antonio Edu Vieira, BR-88036020 Florianopolis, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001426185300001	18	Article; Article		
J	Vieira, Matheus Mesquita; Neves, Lucas Melo; da Silva, Pedro Victor Felisberto; Fernandes, Romulo Araujo; Xavier, Rosana Leite da Silva; Rossi, Priscila Almeida Queiroz; Juday, Valeria; Deslandes, Andrea; Lastella, Michele; Rossi, Fabricio E.								Non-modifiable and modifiable factors affecting anxiety and depressive symptoms in young athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	4			328	336		10.1080/00913847.2025.2466415			JUL 4 2025	2025	ObjectivesThe aim of the present study was to verify the association between non-modifiable (age categories, sex and race/ethnicity) and modifiable (sport modality, socioeconomic, training load, sleep, and eating disorder) factors with anxiety and depressive symptoms in young athletes.MethodsThe sample was composed of 168 athletes engaged in national competitions from individual sports [swimming (n = 26) and badminton (n = 53)] and team sports [soccer (n = 28) and handball (n = 61)]. The coaches monitored the training load throughout the training week, and athletes completed self-reported questionnaires to assess sociodemographic data, sleep quality, eating disorders, and symptoms of anxiety and depression on the recovery day after a full week of pre-season training.ResultsThe prevalence of anxiety and depressive symptoms in young athletes were 14.3% and 25.6%, respectively, and female athletes presented higher rates of anxiety symptoms than males (30.8% vs. 11.3%; p = 0.015). Athletes from individual sports and athletes with 18 years or older showed higher depressive symptoms than younger (32.3% vs. 17.3%; p = 0.021). Athletes from the minority group showed higher depressive symptoms compared to the dominant group (41.9% vs. 20%; p = 0.005). The quality of sleep also influenced both anxiety (beta = 5.430 [95%CI: 1.896 to 15.553]) and depressive symptoms (beta = 5.292 [95%CI: 2.211 to 12.664)] in young athletes.ConclusionIn short, non-modifiable factors, such as sex and age categories, should be considered when anxiety and depressive symptoms are examined in young athletes. Modifiable factors such as sports modality and sleep quality impact depressive symptoms in this population.		[Vieira, Matheus Mesquita; da Silva, Pedro Victor Felisberto; Xavier, Rosana Leite da Silva; Rossi, Fabricio E.] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Technol & Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Immunometabolism Skeletal Muscle & Exercise Res Gr, Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil; [Vieira, Matheus Mesquita; da Silva, Pedro Victor Felisberto; Fernandes, Romulo Araujo; Xavier, Rosana Leite da Silva; Rossi, Priscila Almeida Queiroz; Rossi, Fabricio E.] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Grad Program Movement Sci Interunits, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Neves, Lucas Melo; Juday, Valeria] Phys Act & Mental Hlth Lab LAFISAM, Res Grp Phys Act Mental & Phys Hlth, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Neves, Lucas Melo] Postgrad Program Hlth Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Neves, Lucas Melo] Univ Sao Paulo, Med Sch, Dept Psychiat, Bipolar Disorder Program PROMAN, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Fernandes, Romulo Araujo] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Technol & Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil; [Deslandes, Andrea] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Natl Sch Publ Hlth, Inst Psychiat, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; [Lastella, Michele] Cent Queensland Univ, Appleton Inst, Rockhampton, Australia; [Rossi, Fabricio E.] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Phys Educ, Roberto Simonsen St 305, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001425364200001	61	Article; Article		
J	Schellekens, Michelle; Struyf, Filip; Verheyen, Noa; Pittoors, Jonas; Cavaggion, Claudia								Reliability of the Athletic Shoulder test in asymptomatic and symptomatic overhead racquet athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				86	94		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.12.005			MAR 2025	2025	Objectives: Assessing intra- and inter-rater reliability of the Athletic Shoulder (ASH) test using a force plate in asymptomatic and symptomatic overhead racquet athletes. Design: Within-session, intra- and inter-rater reliability. Setting: Physiotherapy practice in Belgium. Participants: Forty-two overhead racquet athletes (21 asymptomatic, 21 symptomatic with shoulder complaints), all playing tennis, badminton, and/or padel for at least 4 h weekly. Main outcome measures: Intra- and inter-rater reliability (intraclass correlation coefficients), standard errors of measurement, minimum detectable change, and agreement (Bland-Altman plots). Results: The ASH test demonstrated excellent intra-rater reliability among asymptomatic (ICC 0.93-0.98) and symptomatic athletes (ICC 0.91-0.98) in all positions (I,Y,T). Inter-rater reliability ranged from good to excellent (asymptomatic: ICC 0.80-0.95, symptomatic: ICC 0.79-0.91). Conclusions: The ASH test demonstrated excellent reliability for single-rater use, supporting its utility for assessing isometric strength in overhead racquet athletes, with or without shoulder complaints. In the asymptomatic group, excellent inter-rater reliability was observed in the Y and T positions. In the symptomatic group, only the non-dominant T position showed excellent inter-rater reliability, making consistent use of a single rater preferable in this population. Future applications may aid injury rehabilitation and return-to-play protocols in sports medicine.		[Schellekens, Michelle; Struyf, Filip; Verheyen, Noa; Pittoors, Jonas; Cavaggion, Claudia] Univ Antwerp, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, Res Grp MOVANT, Campus Drie Eiken,Univ Pl 1, B-2610 Antwerp, Belgium; [Struyf, Filip] Univ Antwerp, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, Res Grp MOVANT, Campus Drie Eiken,Univ Pl 1, B-2610 Antwerp, Belgium								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001428612900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Bagnoli, Paola; Ferrarello, Francesco; Pini, Fabio; Rossi, Duccio; Paci, Matteo								Shoulder injuries in amateur soccer players. An exploratory cross-sectional survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				77	85		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.02.004			MAR 2025	2025	Objectives: To investigate the prevalence, incidence of players reporting shoulder injuries in a non-probability sample of Italian amateur soccer players. We also wanted to explore the characteristics of injuries, predictive factors and differences between men's and women's leagues. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Anonymous online survey. Participants: Adult athletes playing on a first team of the Italian National Amateur Soccer League. Main outcome measures: Period prevalence, incidence, and characteristics of players reporting shoulder injuries over a soccer season. Results: Fifty-one out of 431 respondents reported shoulder injuries. The pooled period prevalence was 12.0% (95%CI [9, 15]), with an incidence of .46 (95%CI [.35, .60]) injured/1000 h of players exposure. Goalkeepers were more likely to be injured than outfield players (OR 5.15, 95%CI [2.27, 11.25]). The injury type stated was mainly contusion (n = 22, 43.1%). Among those reporting injuries, thirty-four (66.6%) respondents stated 0-7 days as time loss from sport activity, with no significant difference due to role (p=.161) Conclusions: Shoulder injuries have a relatively low impact on the participation of adult amateur players in soccer activities. Technical and medical staff need to monitor players after an injury to the shoulder in order to provide appropriate training, prevention of complications and educational programs.		[Bagnoli, Paola; Pini, Fabio; Rossi, Duccio; Paci, Matteo] Univ Florence, Sch Physiotherapy, Dept Expt & Clin Med, Largo Brambilla 3, I-50134 Florence, Italy; [Bagnoli, Paola] Osped Piero Palagi, Azienda USL Toscana Ctr, Dept Allied Hlth Profess, Unit Funct Rehabil, Viale Michelangelo 41, I-50122 Florence, Italy; [Ferrarello, Francesco] CSS Giovannini, Azienda USL Toscana Ctr, Dept Allied Hlth Profess, Unit Funct Rehabil, Via Cavour 118, I-59100 Prato, Italy; [Paci, Matteo] Azienda USL Toscana Ctr, Dept Allied Hlth Profess, Innovat & Dev, Via S Salvi 12, I-50135 Florence, Italy; [Ferrarello, Francesco] Azienda USL Toscana Ctr, Dept Allied Hlth Profess, Unit Funct Rehabil, C-O Stanza 27,Via Cavour 118, I-59100 Prato, Italy								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001428376900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Hirosawa, Seiji								Kinematic considerations for achieving the quadruple axel jump: comparison with triple axel jumps among world-class figure skaters using tracking data								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	2			298	309		10.1080/14763141.2025.2464787			FEB 1 2026	2026	In figure skating, achieving higher scores often relies on the successful execution of difficult jumps, e.g., quadruple jumps. According to previous biomechanical studies, jump heights do not change significantly even with more rotational jumps. However, strategies employed by top skaters to acquire new jumps are unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate specific kinematic strategies used by skaters to perform the quadruple axel jump (4A), focusing on two skaters (skaters A and B) who attempted this jump in competitions. Using data from the Ice Scope tracking system, this study analysed the vertical height, horizontal distance, take-off speed, landing speed, and height-to-distance ratio of the jumps. Both skaters achieved higher vertical heights in their 4A attempts than in their triple axel jump (3A) attempts. Notably, Skater A's successful 4A and Skater B's downgraded 4A had significantly greater vertical heights than the average 3As among world-class skaters. This suggests a strategic shift towards increasing the vertical height to master 4As, contrary to previous biomechanical research that did not emphasise vertical height. These findings update existing theories on figure skating research and provide insights into training strategies for mastering difficult jumps.		[Hirosawa, Seiji] Toin Univ Yokohama, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, 1614 Kurogane Cho,Aoba ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 2258503, Japan; [Hirosawa, Seiji] Keio Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Yokohama, Japan; [Hirosawa, Seiji] Toin Univ Yokohama, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, 1614 Kurogane Cho,Aoba ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 2258503, Japan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001421096000001	26	Article; Article		
J	Lopez-Plaza, Daniel; Alacid, Fernando; Willmott, Alexander P.								The effect of a swivel seat on performance, kinematics and body rotation during maximal intensity on-ergometer kayaking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2417	2431		10.1080/14763141.2025.2463397			AUG 3 2025	2025	In recent years, physiological investigations suggested that a kayak seat able to rotate in the horizontal plane (swivel seat) may improve performance, but kinematic data are limited. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of the swivel seat on kinematics and performance during sprint paddling on an ergometer. Nine experienced kayakers volunteered for this study and each completed two maximal trials of 30 s on the ergometer, one with the swivel seat and the other with a fixed seat. Three-dimensional motion analysis and performance data were collected at 200 Hz during the central 10 s of each trial. The use of the swivel seat was observed to improve performance through a significant increase in peak fly-wheel RPM (p = 0.033) and paddle antero-posterior displacement (p = 0.015) and a significant decrease in right side paddle recovery time (p = 0.043). In conclusion, the use of the swivel seat was associated with kinematic changes that improved performance and decreased the risk of excessive spine rotation. These results offer new insights into understanding the implications of swivel seat use for the dynamics of kayaking.		[Lopez-Plaza, Daniel] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Educ, Zaragoza, Spain; [Alacid, Fernando] Univ Almeria, Hlth Res Ctr, Dept Educ, Almeria, Spain; [Willmott, Alexander P.] Univ Lincoln, Sch Psychol Sport Sci & Wellbeing, Lincoln, England; [Lopez-Plaza, Daniel] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Educ, Zaragoza, Spain								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001423142400001	35	Article; Article		
J	Kelley, Mary Grace; Denwood, Hayley; Shah, Reanna; Yendluri, Avanish; Dhanjani, Suraj; Fitch, Ashlyn; Berube, Megan; Li, Xinning; Parisien, Robert L.								Investigation of lower extremity injuries in men's ice hockey: a 10-year analysis across the COVID-19 era								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	4			319	327		10.1080/00913847.2025.2463873			JUL 4 2025	2025	ObjectivesOver one-third of icehockey injuries involve the lower extremity (LE). The purpose of this study was to describe epidemiology and mechanism of injury of men's icehockey-related lower extremity injuries treated in US emergency departments from 2013 to 2022.MethodsThe National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database was retrospectively queried for LE injuries related to men's ice hockey (product code 1279) from 2013 to 2022. Demographics, injury characteristics, and disposition were recorded. Injury mechanism was summarized from the supplied narrative. National estimates (NE) were calculated using the provided NEISS sample weight. Linear regression was used to evaluate injurytrends. ResultsThere were 832 cases (NE: 27469) of LE injuries in male ice hockey players from 2013-2022. Linear regression demonstrated increasing LE injuries in the post-COVID period (after the year 2020). The knee (34.7%, NE: 9,533) and ankle (29.4%, NE: 8,089) were most commonly injured. The most frequent injuries for the ankle (35.8%) and knee (30.5%) were strains/sprains. Skating sprains (15.1%, NE: 4,157) and slip and/or falls (14.2%, NE: 3,898) were the most common primary mechanisms of injury. Slip and/or falls (40.8%) and collisions with another player (23.9%) were most common secondarymechanisms of injury. Slip and/or falls, collisions with another player,and checking commonly injured the knee. There were no significant changes in ininjury incidence at any anatomical location or primary mechanism of injury overthe study period.ConclusionThe knee and ankle were the most common location of lower extremityinjuries in male ice hockey players between 2013-2022. The knee was vulnerable to a variety of primary mechanisms ofinjury, including checking, collisions with other players, and slip and/or falls. Despite implementation of urgent orthopedic carecenters, allowance of additional foot protection, and facility improvements, the rate of post-COVID LE injuries have been increasing.		[Kelley, Mary Grace; Denwood, Hayley; Fitch, Ashlyn; Berube, Megan; Li, Xinning] Boston Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 725 Albany St, 4th Floor, Suite 4B, Boston, MA 02118 USA; [Shah, Reanna; Yendluri, Avanish; Dhanjani, Suraj; Parisien, Robert L.] Mt Sinai Hlth Syst, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Sports Med, New York, NY USA; [Kelley, Mary Grace] Boston Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 725 Albany St, 4th Floor, Suite 4B, Boston, MA 02118 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001420397000001	18	Article; Article		
J	Frost, Will; Groom, Ryan; Nicholls, Scott B.								The use of performance analysis and data driven approaches within senior men's football recruitment								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			604	616		10.1177/17479541251315948			APR 2025	2025	Football clubs face various demands due to transfer fee increases within player recruitment, leading to numerous clubs adopting alternate methods to remain competitive within the transfer market. This study aimed to investigate the use of video and data based performance analysis (PA) within player recruitment. Participants (n = 19) from professional and semi-professional football clubs were invited to complete a survey through LinkedIn incorporating Likert scale and open text responses. The survey consisted of three sections: demographics, use of PA in recruitment, and perceptions of PA in recruitment. Data was analysed using Mann Whitney U and/or thematic analysis where appropriate to understand the difference in approach between experienced/inexperienced recruiters. Four key themes were identified as formulating the recruitment cycle, these were 1) video and data usage as a crucial tool, 2) identification of hidden talent using external datasets, 3) performance profiling to quantify strengths/weaknesses and provide pertinent insights into a player's abilities, and 4) due diligence to assess a player's personality and cultural fit. The significance of this work has enabled the creation of a novel empirically grounded recruitment analysis framework. In doing so, this study makes an original empirical and conceptual contribution to our understanding of player recruitment in football to inform applied practice.		[Frost, Will; Groom, Ryan; Nicholls, Scott B.] Univ Derby, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Derby, England; [Frost, Will] Univ Derby, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Derby, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001420819100001	50	Article; Article		
J	Butler, Lauren; Erdman, Ashley; Martinez, Alexa; Sugimoto, Dai; Janosky, Joseph; Ulman, Sophia								The reliability of a two-plane qualitative assessment tool for a single leg HOP task amongst multidisciplanary sports medicine practitioners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				53	58		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.02.001			MAR 2025	2025	Objective: To determine the reliability of a qualitative assessment of trunk and lower extremity alignment during a single hop for distance in youth athletes. Design: Repeated measures. Methods: Twenty-five healthy female youth athletes were recorded performing a single leg hop (SLH). Videos were viewed and scored using a qualitative assessment tool by a physical therapist (PT), Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS), and Athletic Trainer (AT), on two separate occasions. Interclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) for each item and total score were calculated with a 2-way mixed-effect model with 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs). Results: The tool demonstrated moderate intra-rater reliability for the total score (PT ICC = 0.74, CSCS ICC = 0.60, AT ICC = 0.71). Individual item intra-rater reliability ranged from poor to good for the PT (-0.06-0.80), poor to moderate for the CSCS (0.35-0.70), and poor to good for the AT (0.43-0.83). Total score inter-rater reliability was moderate in round one and poor in round two (ICC = 0.57 and ICC = 0.49, respectively). Conclusions: Moderate intra-rater reliability and poor to moderate inter-rater reliability amongst a PT, CSCS, and an AT was demonstrated. Future studies should explore the tool's reliability amongst a more homogenous group of raters to better determine its utility.		[Butler, Lauren] Florida Int Univ, 11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Butler, Lauren; Martinez, Alexa] Nicklaus Childrens Hosp, Miami, FL USA; [Erdman, Ashley; Ulman, Sophia] Scottish Rite Children, Dallas, TX USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Janosky, Joseph] Lasell Univ, Newton, MA USA; [Ulman, Sophia] Univ Texas Southwestern Med Ctr, Dallas, TX USA; [Butler, Lauren] Florida Int Univ, 11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001427118100001	32	Article; Article		
J	Tanigawa, Kyoma; Watanabe, Daiki; Saito, Takanobu; Shimizu, Hiroki; Kawamoto, Shinichi; Nagai-Tanima, Momoko; Aoyama, Tomoki								Influence of flat feet on the lateral movements of tennis players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2394	2405		10.1080/14763141.2025.2458487			AUG 3 2025	2025	This study investigated the effect of flat feet on the lateral movements of tennis players. Lateral footwork is crucial in tennis, and variations in the athletes' physical characteristics can affect footwork efficiency. Flat feet hinder forward propulsion; however, their relationship to lateral propulsion remains unclear. Thus, this study focused on foot morphology among other physical traits. Seventeen male university tennis players were evaluated using the navicular drop test and categorised into the flat foot (eight participants) and normal foot (nine participants) groups. The kinematic and kinetic data during the crossover step movements were collected using a three-dimensional motion analysis system and force plates. Although no significant intergroup differences in lateral propulsion, represented by the lateral peak acceleration of the centre of mass, were observed, individuals with flat feet exhibited significantly higher ankle maximum dorsiflexion angles and maximum eversion moments than those with normal feet. Individuals with flat feet are likely to compensate for functional deficits by increasing muscle activity, which may increase the risk of injury. Further research on muscle activity during sports movements and injury prevalence is necessary to improve the prevention and treatment strategies.		[Tanigawa, Kyoma; Watanabe, Daiki; Saito, Takanobu; Shimizu, Hiroki; Kawamoto, Shinichi; Nagai-Tanima, Momoko; Aoyama, Tomoki] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Med, Human Hlth Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Aoyama, Tomoki] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Med, Human Hlth Sci, Kyoto, Japan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001417149400001	26	Article; Article		
J	Bailey, Caitlin P.; DiPietro, Loretta; Qian, Jingyi; Elmi, Angelo; Napolitano, Melissa A.								Timing of Physical Activity and Associations with BMI and Weekly Physical Activity in Young Adults: A Cross-Sectional Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			573	579		10.1080/02701367.2025.2463467			JUL 3 2025	2025	The timing of physical activity has been associated with weight and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) in adults. However, few studies have tested associations in young adults, who are biologically and behaviorally different from adults. Young adults (18-35 yr) enrolled in a weight management program provided body mass index (BMI) and 4-7days of ActiGraph accelerometer wear time at baseline. Activity time of day was divided into the following quartiles: morning (06:00-11:59), afternoon (12:00-15:59), evening (16:00-18:59), and night (19:00-00:59). The proportion of weekly MVPA minutes occurring in each time category was used to predict BMI and total weekly MVPA using linear regression models. Marginal trends were estimated for the full sample and by sex. The analytic sample (N = 408, mAge = 23.8 +/- 4.5, mBMI = 31.1 +/- 4.4) was 79% female, 49% non-Hispanic White, with a mean weekly MVPA of 311 +/- 167minutes. MVPA timing was associated with total weekly MVPA but not BMI. Afternoon MVPA was inversely associated with total weekly MVPA in women (-1.72 [95% CI: -3.19, -0.26] min). When considering only bouted MVPA as a predictor, morning (all: 1.43 [95% CI: 0.86, 2.00] min) and night (women: 0.87 [95% CI: 0.15, 1.58] min) MVPA were positively associated with total weekly MVPA. Activity-based interventions designed to improve behavioral health may be improved by providing time-based recommendations tailored to the demographic characteristics of the target population. For example, morning may be an optimal time for both female and male young adults to engage in bouted physical activity to improve total weekly activity levels		[Bailey, Caitlin P.; DiPietro, Loretta; Elmi, Angelo; Napolitano, Melissa A.] George Washington Univ, Sch Publ Hlth, Milken Inst, Washington, DC USA; [Qian, Jingyi] Brigham & Womens Hosp, Boston, MA USA; [Qian, Jingyi] Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA USA; [Bailey, Caitlin P.] George Washington Univ, Dept Prevent & Community Hlth, Milken Inst, Sch Publ Hlth, 950 New Hampshire Ave,3rd Floor, Washington, DC 20052 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001420385700001	31	Article; Article		
J	Ashikaga, Kohei; Manabe, Tomohiro; Tomori, Anna; Endo, Naoya; Kamahara, Kazuyuki								Differences in athlete's left ventricular morphology by sex and sports discipline categories in elite Japanese athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	4			309	318		10.1080/00913847.2025.2463320			JUL 4 2025	2025	ObjectivesThe cardiac morphology of elite athletes is related to sports disciplines and race; however, no studies have examined the effects of sports discipline on East Asian athletes. Therefore, this study aimed to assess left ventricular (LV) remodeling using transthoracic echocardiography in elite Japanese athletes and establish standard values for the indicators of the cardiac morphology of elite athletes in East Asia, considering the influence of body size.MethodsWe retrospectively evaluated 1,363 elite Japanese athletes who underwent electrocardiography and transthoracic echocardiography between January 2011 and December 2021. The athletes were assigned to four sports discipline categories (skill, power, mixed, and endurance). We evaluated the differences in LV volume and mass between the groups for each sex.ResultsThe LV end-diastolic volume (LVEDV) and LV mass indexed to the body surface area (BSA) in the endurance group (LVEDV/BSA: 72.3 +/- 11.4 mL/m2 in males and 68.7 +/- 11.0 mL/m2 in females, LV mass/BSA: 121.1 +/- 19.1 g/m2 in males and 106.5 +/- 18.0 g/m2 in females) were significantly larger than those of any other groups. Both values were affected by sex, BSA, and endurance sport type, whereas only LV mass was affected by age.ConclusionCardiac remodeling is proportional to the sport type, with a significantly greater effect in athletes playing endurance sports. The remodeling is particularly evident in the left ventricle; however, the corresponding remodeling is also observed in other heart chambers. Cardiac remodeling in elite Japanese athletes is similar to that observed in elite athletes of other races, except for the changes in LV wall thickness.		[Ashikaga, Kohei] St Marianna Univ, Sch Med, Dept Sports Med, 2-16-1 Sugao,Miyamae Ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 2168511, Japan; [Ashikaga, Kohei; Manabe, Tomohiro; Tomori, Anna; Endo, Naoya; Kamahara, Kazuyuki] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Sports Med Ctr, Tokyo, Japan; [Manabe, Tomohiro] Keio Univ, Sports Med Res Ctr, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Ashikaga, Kohei] St Marianna Univ, Sch Med, Dept Sports Med, 2-16-1 Sugao,Miyamae Ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 2168511, Japan								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001416122000001	37	Article; Article		
J	Hammes, Fabian; Link, Daniel								Perturbations in Badminton - why avoiding bad shots is more important than executing good ones								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			758	766		10.1177/17479541251317477			APR 2025	2025	This study examines how perturbations in badminton singles are created. Therefore, we analyzed the shots that create an advantage for one player, the so-called Impulse. We explore four aspects, including the quality-Positive vs. Negative-of the Impulse, the technique used, the Shot Number, and the conversion rate, all according to the factors of Gender and Age. Our sample comprises 60 matches spanning U15, U19, and Elite levels, with an equal distribution between Men's and Women's matches. Results indicate that Impulses were 64.8% Negative and 35.2% Positive, with no significant Gender or Age differences. Positive Impulses mainly comprise Net shots (Women: 30.1%, Men: 29.8%, Elite: 31.4%, U19: 27.6%, U15: 30.8%), while Negative Impulses predominantly involve Lobs (Women: 26.3%, Men: 29.5%, Elite: 26.0%, U19: 27.4%, U15: 30.3%). In contrast to male players, poor Clears play an essential role in losing a rally in Women's badminton (Women: 21.3%, Men: 13.1%). Temporally, Impulses occur later in Men's and Elite matches than in Women's and Youth's matches (Women: 6.8 (+/- 5.8), Men: 8.9 (+/- 8.2), Elite: 10.2 (+/- 8.8), U19: 7.4 (+/- 6.3), U15: 5.7 (+/- 4.8)). For Positive Impulses the conversion rate to point gain is 70.7%, for Negative Impulses the conversion rate to point loss is 86.7%. We conclude that success in badminton singles seems more reliant on avoiding bad shots than executing good ones. Gender and Age differences in shot techniques and timing of Impulses likely stem from the different physical abilities of Men and Elite players compared to the other examined categories.		[Hammes, Fabian; Link, Daniel] Tech Univ Munich, Chair Performance Anal & Sports Informat, TUM Sch Med & Hlth, Dept Hlth & SportSciences, Georg Brauchle Ring 60-62, D-80992 Munich, Germany; [Hammes, Fabian] Tech Univ Munich, Chair Performance Anal & Sports Informat, TUM Sch Med & Hlth, Dept Hlth & SportSciences, Georg Brauchle Ring 60-62, D-80992 Munich, Germany								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001416734200001	30	Article; Article		
J	Killoughery, Iain; Yiannaki, Christopher; Rhodes, David								Performance lifestyle provision in a multi-disciplinary team: A qualitative investigation of current practice and future progression								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			517	528		10.1177/17479541251317291			APR 2025	2025	Performance Lifestyle (PL) services have the potential to make a novel contribution to athlete development, yet has limited research, notably examining the experiences of PL practitioners. This study explored PL practitioner perspectives to highlight current barriers and limitations in service delivery, whilst highlighting good practice. Six semi-structured interviews were conducted. Each participant supported athletes competing at professional, international, or Olympic levels. All participants were employed to deliver PL services with an average of 10.83 (+/- 6.71) years' experience. Reflexive thematic analysis was chosen to analyse the data with three main themes constructed. 'Creating an informed environment' illustrates environments that lack understanding regarding the nature, scope and value of PL services. 'Optimising the role of PL practitioners' seeks to identify best practice and explore common issues faced by practitioners. 'Improving practitioner and coach education' indicates a need for enhanced competencies and contemporary training for future practitioners and coaches. Findings provide unique insights into the experiences of practitioners and suggest that PL delivery, and its impact, is limited by several factors. This study discusses the contemporary implications of these issues and applied recommendations for future PL provision within high-performance sport environments.		[Killoughery, Iain; Yiannaki, Christopher; Rhodes, David] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Preston, England; [Killoughery, Iain] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport Phys Educ & Hlth, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Killoughery, Iain] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport Phys Educ & Hlth, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001416730500001	68	Article; Article		
J	Yousefian, Farzad; Zafar, Abdullah; Fransson, Dan; Brito, Joao; Travassos, Bruno								Peak Kinematic and Mechanical Demands According to Playing Positions in Professional Male Soccer: Composition Analysis and Characteristics of Locomotor Activities								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			475	485		10.1080/02701367.2024.2441126			JUL 3 2025	2025	This study examined the most demanding passages (MDP) of composite kinematic and mechanical activities in professional soccer according to positions. Global positioning system data were collected from 39 male soccer players across two seasons. Kinematic and mechanical MDP were identified by composite MDPk (maximal distance covered across moderate- and high-speed running and sprinting thresholds) and MDPm (maximal magnitude of high-intensity acceleration and deceleration efforts) criterion variables across 5 min moving average periods. Linear mixed models assessed the intensity, number of efforts, and duration of specific locomotor activities of each MDP by position. The kinematic MDP showed higher intensity, effort count, and relative duration of MDPk activities than mechanical MDP (p <= 0.001; ES: 0.7-1.7). Conversely, MDPm activities had greater magnitude, efforts, and relative duration in mechanical MDP (ES: 1.9-2.0). Similar constituent variable compositions were observed between peak periods. The MDPk comprised similar to 60 +/- 16% moderate-speed running, similar to 30 +/- 11% high-speed running, and similar to 14 +/- 8% sprinting distances; MDPm included similar to 35 +/- 23% and similar to 65 +/- 23% high-intensity accelerations and decelerations. Positional differences revealed central defenders had lower, while full-backs and wide-midfielders had higher, MDP values. Findings from this study highlight the multidimensional characteristics of composite peak kinematic and mechanical periods in professional soccer. The differential contribution of low- and high-intensity locomotor activities during such periods, in terms of magnitude, number of efforts, and duration, should be considered by practitioners. Such insight can inform effective position-specific training prescription as well as bespoke recovery strategies based on the MDP observed during match play.		[Yousefian, Farzad; Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Yousefian, Farzad; Brito, Joao; Travassos, Bruno] Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Zafar, Abdullah] Univ Montreal, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Fransson, Dan] Univ Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Brito, Joao] Univ Lisbon, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Yousefian, Farzad] Univ Beira Interior Convento St Antonio, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Dept Sport Sci, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001468291600001	39	Article; Article		
J	LaPlaca, David A.; McCullick, Bryan A.								National Football League Scouting Combine Test Results of Elite-Level National Football League Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			545	554		10.1080/02701367.2024.2448827			JUL 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to determine elite and poor performance for each offensive and defensive position group on every physical test performed at the NFL Scouting Combine Descriptive statistics were calculated as well as independent samples t-tests for the 15 position groups relative to their performance in the NFL Scouting Combine tests, including: (a) 40-yard Dash, (b) Vertical Jump, (c) Bench Press, (d) Broad Jump, (e) Three-cone Drill, and (f) Shuttle Run. Each player's height and weight were also analyzed. The 15 position groups include Quarterbacks (n = 206), Fullbacks (n = 64), Running Backs (n = 314), Wide Receivers (n = 501), Tight Ends (n = 187), Offensive Tackles (n = 279), Guards (n = 198), Centers (n = 99), Cornerbacks (n = 374), Free Safeties (n = 132), Strong Safeties (n = 129), Outside Linebackers (n = 273), Inside Linebackers (n = 162), Defensive Ends (n = 280), and Defensive Tackles (n = 273). For each of the 15 position groups, there was at least one NFL Scouting Combine test result that had a statistically significant difference at the p < .05 or p < .001 level when comparing players who averaged playing in at least 10 games per season versus those that played in less than 10 games. The results of this study provide knowledge of which physical test is essential for each offensive and defensive position and can be helpful for those charged with making player personnel decisions in NFL organizations.		[LaPlaca, David A.] Select Rehabil, 3110 Brentwood Dr, Doylestown, PA 18902 USA; [McCullick, Bryan A.] Univ Georgia, Athens, GA USA; [LaPlaca, David A.] Select Rehabil, 3110 Brentwood Dr, Doylestown, PA 18902 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001468325300001	16	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Lin fang; Yim, Brian; Song, Doori; Zhang, Yi								Promoting the path of educational activities in the International Table Tennis Federation Museum								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			636	657		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2024-0233			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposeAdopting the context, input, process and product (CIPP) evaluation assessment model, this study aims to achieve three objectives: (1) to identify the characteristics of educational activities conducted by the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) museum; (2) to explore the key factors that promote and optimize the educational objectives of the ITTF museum and (3) to develop a framework that attempts to unpack the complex and dynamic processes of activities conducted by the ITTF museum.Design/methodology/approachA qualitative research using in-depth interviews was conducted to explore the functions and activities of the ITTF museum.FindingsThe path of educational activities carried out is expressed in four aspects: (1) educational background including philosophy and purpose, advantages possessed and the learning needs and readiness of the audience; (2) the resource input includes resource allocation, venue structure, funding channels and the basis of activity program design; (3) the educational activity process includes external cooperation and exchange, the specific content of the activity programs, the teaching strategies and methods during the activities and the response to the challenges of the epidemic and (4) the results of the activities include the number of audience and population distribution, evaluation and feedback of the activities, ways and means of promoting the activities and difficulties and challenges faced.Research limitations/implicationsIn the follow-up studies, quantitative research can be conducted by developing a questionnaire based on the current study's findings. Evaluation scales can be set to continue to enrich and improve the uncovered research content, which is conducive to promoting the objectives of the ITTF museum and giving full play to the educational function, thus enriching the research of sports museums.Originality/valueThe contributions of this study are as follows. First, it enriches the application of the CIPP assessment model in the context of sports museums. It helps the ITTP museum better perform its educational function and provides a reference for future activities of sports museums.		[Wang, Lin fang; Zhang, Yi] Shanghai Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Yim, Brian] Kent State Univ, Dept Fdn Leadership & Adm, Kent, OH USA; [Song, Doori] Youngstown State Univ, Williamson Coll Business Adm, Youngstown, OH USA; [Zhang, Yi] Shanghai Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001413973900001	45	Article; Article		
J	Thompson, Brooke J.; Lattimer, Lauren J.								A pilot study on the effects of multimodal cervical exercise training on clinical concussion risk factors in female athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				39	45		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.01.003			MAR 2025	2025	Objectives: The primary objective of the current study was to examine whether a 7-week multi-modal cervical training intervention was effective in improving sport related concussion risk factors in female varsity athletes. Design: A quantitative experimental research design involving a prospective exercise intervention. Methods: Seventeen female athletes (age 19.5 +/- 1.42 years) attended two data collection sessions (i.e., baseline and post-testing) involving assessments in anthropometrics, isometric and dynamic neck strength, and balance control. The intervention group (n = 8) participated in a seven-week multi-modal neuromuscular training program for the cervical musculature. The control group (n = 9) was not provided with external training aside from what was performed within their sports team which was not cervical spine specific. Results: The intervention group experienced significant improvements in neck-girth, flexor-extensor strength ratio, cervical muscular endurance, isometric and dynamic strength, and balance control. Conclusion: The findings suggest that the intervention was effective in improving clinical measures related to concussion risk. Prior research suggests that improved size, strength, endurance, symmetry, and postural control, improve an athlete's ability to stabilize the head. This improved stability may cause athletes to have reduced motion of the head following a concussive load, consequently reducing SRC risk but should be investigated further.		[Thompson, Brooke J.; Lattimer, Lauren J.] Acadia Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Wolfville, NS, Canada; [Lattimer, Lauren J.] Acadia Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Wolfville, NS, Canada								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001423859900001	29	Article; Article		
J	Williamson, Michael; Doyle, Jason; Harris-Reeves, Brooke; Filo, Kevin								Supporting the team, caring for the players: understanding fan perceptions of athlete wellbeing programmes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	6			66	83		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2024-0167			FEB 3 2025	2025	PurposeActive supporters and the organisations they form are crucial stakeholders for football clubs. Previous literature has noted the increasing interest and positive outcomes associated with corporate social responsibility initiatives within sport organisations, which fans perceive and include employee wellbeing. Whilst scholars have explored various stakeholders' perceptions of athlete wellbeing, an opportunity exists to understand how active supporters perceive athlete wellbeing programmes. Thus, the purpose of the current research was to explore the perceptions of A-League Men's active supporters regarding an athlete wellbeing programme.Design/methodology/approachInformed by stakeholder theory, active supporters of the A-League provided their perceptions of the Player Development Programme (PDP) - the athlete wellbeing programme associated with professional football in Australia. Data were collected through open-ended questions within an online survey and analysed through inductive thematic analysis.FindingsThree themes were generated that answer the research question: impactful and beneficial; worthy of more attention and promotion and limited understanding. These themes underscore the positive impact of the wellbeing programme on both the club and its athletes whilst highlighting the necessity for increased programme visibility within the club and the broader community.Originality/valueThe current study's findings contribute to the sport management literature by exploring active supporters' perceptions of an athlete wellbeing programme in football. Since athlete wellbeing is essential for active supporters, including wellbeing initiatives within the club's corporate social responsibility initiatives could produce positive marketing and sponsorship outcomes for clubs.		[Williamson, Michael; Doyle, Jason; Filo, Kevin] Griffith Univ, Dept Tourism Sport & Hotel Management, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Harris-Reeves, Brooke] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Williamson, Michael] Griffith Univ, Dept Tourism Sport & Hotel Management, Brisbane, Qld, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001417021600001	67	Article; Article		
J	Caspers, Andreas; Andersson, Helena; Godhe, Manne; Fransson, Dan; Ekblom-Bak, Elin; Borjesson, Mats								Walking Football for Men and Women 60+: A 12-Week Non-Controlled Intervention Affects Health Parameters								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			532	544		10.1080/02701367.2024.2448824			JUL 3 2025	2025	The aim of the study was to examine physiological and cardiometabolic effects of 12 weeks of walking football (played 2 x 20 min) in physically inactive older adults. Thirty-three volunteers completed the study (men n = 11, women n = 22) were enrolled with a mean age of 74.0 +/- 5.7 years. Baseline tests included blood pressure, waist circumference, body composition, blood samples, balance, estimated VO2max, mobility, grip strength and vertical jump height. Grip strength was significantly higher at the posttest (32.7 +/- 7.8 kg vs. 30.7 +/- 7.7 kg (p < .005)), and the walking/turning speed was faster making the time to complete the Timed Up and Go test significant shorter at the posttest (6.07 +/- 1.0 s vs. 6.87 +/- 1.0 s (p < .001)). Waist circumference was lower at the posttest (91.8 +/- 13.3 cm vs. 93.9 +/- 13.9 cm (p < .001)). HDL-cholesterol was significantly higher at posttest (2.19 +/- 1.36 mmol/L vs. 1.98 +/- 0.89 mmol/L (p < .005)). HbA1c significantly decreased posttest (39 +/- 1.2 mmol/mol vs. 38 +/- 5.8 mmol/mol (p < .028)). Walking football for older adults is associated with positive changes in cardiometabolic and physiological variables.		[Caspers, Andreas; Fransson, Dan] Univ Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Andersson, Helena] Umea Univ, Umea, Sweden; [Godhe, Manne; Ekblom-Bak, Elin] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Stockholm, Sweden; [Borjesson, Mats] Univ Gothenburg, Sahlgrenska Acad, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Borjesson, Mats] Sahlgrens Univ Hosp, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Caspers, Andreas] Univ Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001415937300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Le Page, Nicolas; Link, Daniel								Load peak intensity in pre-season training sessions and official competitions in professional soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			669	678		10.1177/17479541241310656			APR 2025	2025	This single case study compares load peak intensity (LPI) in pre-season training sessions and official matches in professional soccer. This aims to answer the question whether the pre-season training sessions of one selected team adequately prepared for the peak demands of the season. Therefore, spatiotemporal data of 8 professional male soccer players was collected using a radio-based local positioning system in training (KINEXON) and a video-based tracking system in Bundesliga competitions (TRACAB). Load peaks were determined based on the distance covered (DC) during Acceleration, Deceleration and Sprinting phases. For each parameter, our algorithm quantifies the LPI by using the maximum rolling average value for time intervals of 1, 3, and 5 min within a training session or a match. The results on team level indicate that LPI for Acceleration was significantly higher in pre-season training sessions compared to matches (for 3-min interval: DCTR = 22.59 m +/- 3.06 m, DCMA = 18.38 m +/- 3.08 m, d = 1.97, p < 0.01). In contrast, LPI regarding Deceleration was significantly lower in pre-season training compared to matches (for 3-min interval: DCTR = 20.8 m +/- 2.65 m, DCMA = 23.15 m +/- 3.17 m, d = -1.29, p < 0.01). This suggests that exercises focused more on acceleration situations and less on deceleration situations. However, analysis on an individual level shows a considerably high variability of load peak intensity between players during both periods. We conclude that individual load monitoring is an essential component of training management. Practitioners are especially advised to carefully examine the worst-case scenarios of Deceleration during pre-season to avoid falling short on load requirements and adequately prepare players for match demands.		[Le Page, Nicolas; Link, Daniel] Tech Univ Munich, Chair Performance Anal & Sports Informat, TUM Sch Med & Hlth, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Munich, Germany; [Link, Daniel] Tech Univ Munich, Munich Data Sci Inst, Munich, Germany; [Le Page, Nicolas] Tech Univ Munich, TUM Sch Med & Hlth, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Munich, Germany								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001413368000001	37	Article; Article		
J	Siesmaa, Emma; Kittel, Aden; Bell, Leo; Larkin, Paul; O'Brien, Brendan J.								Coaches' attitudes of sport science professions in community-level Australian football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			934	946		10.1177/17479541241310944			JUN 2025	2025	Sport science is a popular area for university study and a sought-after field for employment. Employment opportunities in elite sport are few, thus a surplus of sport science university graduates seek employment often in community-level sport exists. Community sports coaches can be a gateway to the employment of sport science professionals, however coaches' attitudes toward the use and value of sport science, and how this may translate to employment opportunities, is not well understood. This study reports the attitudes of ten community-level Australian football coaches, obtaining an in-depth understanding of their perceptions of a sport scientist's role, their value of the sport science field, current use of sport scientists within their club, sport scientist training and qualifications, and the feasibility of employing a sport scientist. Inductive semi-structured one-on-one interviews were conducted via an online platform using an open-ended interview schedule developed from a detailed literature review, determining key foci for inclusion. Coaches viewed the role of a sport scientist in community-level football to be broad, acknowledging that sport scientists can perform specialist roles. Coaches highly valued the profession overall and frequently used and endorsed the use of sport scientists in their sport. However, a commonly occurring theme was that sport science was not seen as particularly cost-effective at a community-level. This theme stemmed from the overarching perceived financial barrier coaches reported as limiting their ability to employ or effectively utilise a sport scientist in their club. The findings highlight key limitations to the employment of sport scientists in community-level sports.		[Siesmaa, Emma; Bell, Leo; O'Brien, Brendan J.] Federat Univ Australia, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, POB 663,Univ Dr, Mt Helen, Vic 3353, Australia; [Kittel, Aden] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Waurn Ponds, Australia; [Larkin, Paul] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Footscray, Australia; [Larkin, Paul] Maribyrnong Sports Acad, MSA Res Ctr, Melbourne, Australia; [Siesmaa, Emma] Federat Univ Australia, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, POB 663,Univ Dr, Mt Helen, Vic 3353, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001411435400001	29	Article; Article		
J	Goncalves, Goncalo; Neta, Paulo; Ribeiro, Joao; Guimaraes, Eduardo								Internal and External Loads during Formal Training and Competition, Physical Capacities, and Technical Skills in Youth Basketball: A Comparison between Starters and Rotation Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				53	67		10.5114/jhk/201159			FEB 2025	2025	This preliminary study had two aims: (i) to compare the internal and external loads between training sessions and official games in youth basketball players; (ii) to investigate the effects of the playing role on physical capacities, basketball skills, and internal and external loads accumulated during training and competition. Thirteen under-16 male basketball players, aged 15.30 +/- 0.88 years, were followed over 10 consecutive weeks and assigned into two groups according to their playing role: starters and rotation players. Prior to the 10-week monitoring period, players' training experience, basic anthropometrics, physical capacities, and basketball skills were assessed. Then, internal and external loads were monitored informal training and official competition. Data were analyzed using non-parametric techniques. Players attained significantly higher values in most measures of internal and external loads during official games (r = 0.82 to 0.88, p < 0.01). Starters outperformed rotation players in the 20-m sprint (r = 0.61, p < 0.05), the lane agility drill (r = 0.77, p < 0.01), and the control dribble (r = 0.73, p < 0.01). They also reached a lower HRpeak in practice (r = 0.65, p < 0.05), but a higher %HRpeak (r = -0.61, p < 0.05) and greater scores in the summated-heart-rate-zones model (r = -0.61, p < 0.05) as well as the dynamic stress load during official games (r = -0.57, p < 0.05). The findings highlight that young basketball players apparently do not train as intensely as they play. Moreover, it was during competition that starting players experienced higher internal and external loads. It is recommended that basketball coaches regularly monitor loads in both formal training and competition to closely match game demands when planning their practices. Finally, it is suggested that future research includes larger sample sizes to provide a more comprehensive understanding of both internal and external loads in youth basketball.		[Goncalves, Goncalo; Neta, Paulo; Ribeiro, Joao; Guimaraes, Eduardo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Neta, Paulo] Univ Maia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Maia, Portugal; [Guimaraes, Eduardo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700003	51	Article; Article		
J	Li, Fengping; Sun, Dong; Song, Yang; Fang, Yufei; Cen, Xuanzhen; Zhang, Qiaolin; Gu, Yaodong								Comparison of Landing Biomechanics in Male Amateur Basketball Players with and without Patellar Tendinopathy during Simulated Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				69	81		10.5114/jhk/201318			FEB 2025	2025	This study compared male amateur basketball players with asymptomatic patellar tendon tendinopathy (ASYM) to healthy controls (CON) during simulated games to explore the differences in patellar tendon force (PTF) and related metrics. Data on kinematics, kinetics, and electromyography were collected from 24 participants, comprising 12 in the ASYM group and 12 in the CON group, performing a stop-jump task in four stages (1(st), 2(nd), 3(rd), 4(th)). A musculoskeletal model was used to calculate PTF, and Orthogonal Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis (OPLS-DA) identified significant variables. In the first three stages, the ASYM group showed significantly greater PTF and the ankle discrete relative phase (ADRP) than the CON group, with differences of 0.98, 0.79, 0.81kg<middle dot>BW-1 (p < 0.001) and 7.34 degrees, 11.24 degrees, and 2.49 degrees (p < 0.05), respectively. In the last three stages, the ASYM group had a higher knee co-activation index (KCAI) than the CON group, with differences of 0.33, 0.28, and 0.25 (p < 0.05). Correlations between PTF and the ADRP and between PTF and the KCAI were the highest, at 0.58 and 0.61, respectively. The OPLS-DA model effectively distinguished between the groups, suggesting potential applications in tendon health monitoring. The findings suggest that elevated PTF may be linked to tendinopathy in male amateur basketball players, highlighting the importance of comprehensive strategies, such as improving ankle symmetry and optimizing muscle coordination to mitigate tendon load and injury risk		[Li, Fengping; Sun, Dong; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Song, Yang; Cen, Xuanzhen] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Fac Engn, Dept Biomed Engn, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Fang, Yufei] Ningbo 2 Hosp, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Qiaolin] Obuda Univ, Doctoral Sch Safety & Secur Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Zhang, Qiaolin] Univ Szeged, Fac Engn, Szeged, Hungary; [Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700004	39	Article; Article		
J	Arede, Jorge; Sevin, Irem Pinar; Williams, Mark; Mikolajec, Kazimierz; Birrento, Ricardo; Schoellhorn, Wolfgang								Velocity and Acceleration-Based Differential Plyometric Training Effects on Young Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				145	161		10.5114/jhk/201139			FEB 2025	2025	This study aimed to examine the impact of velocity and acceleration-based differential plyometric jump training on physical performance of youth basketball players. Twenty-six trained youth male players (14.5 +/- 1.7 years; U14 [n = 14], U16 [n = 5], and U18 [n = 7]) were grouped into experimental and control groups. The experimental group completed two sessions per week of velocity-based differential plyometric training for 14 weeks (3 sets x 5 jumps with 20-s intervals of passive recovery between jumps and 2-min breaks between sets). Before each repetition, participants received verbal instruction to perform a different fluctuation. The control group continued regular training. Bilateral and unilateral countermovement jump (CMJ) height, the 20-m sprint test, and the Modified 505 Agility (M505) test were evaluated before and after the intervention. The training program yielded statistically significant improvements in the experimental group's CMJ bilateral jump height. Additionally, moderate improvements in the CMJR (Countermovement Jump Right Leg) and M505R (Modified 505 Agility Right) tests (BF10 > 3 to 10) were observed after the training program (delta ranged from 0.66 to 1.12). The control group demonstrated moderate improvements in the M505R (Modified 505 Agility Right) and M505L (Modified 505 Agility Left) tests (BF10 > 3 to 10) (delta = 0.65). Models combining different variables provided the best fit for the data in different physical variables. The results indicate that velocity and acceleration-based differential plyometric training can be a suitable strategy for improving physical performance of youth basketball players.		[Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Sch Educ, Viseu, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Exercise & Hlth Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Sevin, Irem Pinar] Otto von Guericke Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Magdeburg, Germany; [Williams, Mark] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, Essex, England; [Williams, Mark] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Sch Psychol & Sport Sci, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, England; [Mikolajec, Kazimierz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Birrento, Ricardo] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Campus Excellence Mare Nostrum, Murcia, Spain; [Birrento, Ricardo] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Human Movement & Sports Sci, Campus Excellence Mare Nostrum, Murcia, Spain; [Birrento, Ricardo] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Sports Performance Anal Assoc, Campus Excellence Mare Nostrum, Murcia, Spain; [Schoellhorn, Wolfgang] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sport Sci Training & Movement Sci, Mainz, Germany; [Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Sch Educ, Viseu, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Exercise & Hlth Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Mikolajec, Kazimierz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700010	58	Article; Article		
J	Lyu, Mengde; Chen, Zhili; Deng, Shengji; Ding, Ling; Han, Jia; Bishop, Chris; Li, Yongming								Asymmetry of the Single Leg Jump and Lateral Shuffle Performance in Pre-Juvenile Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				109	119		10.5114/jhk/196315			FEB 2025	2025	The aims of this study were to: 1) assess and compare the performance of lateral shuffles and lower limb jumps among pre-juvenile basketball players; and 2) calculate the asymmetry scores of these assessment methods and examine the association between their performance and existing inter-limb differences. Thirty-nine pre-juvenile basketball athletes (23 boys and 16 girls) performed the countermovement jump, the single leg countermovement jump, the single leg lateral jump, the single leg broad jump, and four shuffle tests (2 distances of 2.5 and 5 m x 2 in each direction) on separate days. Results revealed significant differences between the left and the right shuffle at distances of both 2.5 m (p < 0.05) and 5 m (p < 0.01), with inter-limb asymmetry scores ranging from 3.3 to 5.1%. There was no significant difference between the performance of the left and right legs in each single leg jump test, while the inter-limb asymmetry values ranged from 5.3 to 8.6%. Correlation analysis showed there were no correlations among the inter-limb asymmetry, shuffle asymmetry and performance, while the right single leg countermovement jump performance was significantly correlated with shuffle performance (all p < 0.001). Shuffle performance in different directions exhibited significant differences which were unrelated to inter-limb asymmetry, demonstrating the task-specific nature of asymmetry and natural variability seen in lateral movements of pre-juvenile basketball players. Practitioners are advised to use a diversified approach to assess asymmetry. These findings have implications for injury prevention and performance enhancement.		[Lyu, Mengde; Chen, Zhili; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Deng, Shengji] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, Australia; [Ding, Ling] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] RMIT Univ, STEM Coll, Sch Hlth & Biomed Sci, Melbourne, Australia; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700007	33	Article; Article		
J	Paulauskas, Rutenis; Kamarauskas, Paulius; Gonsalves, Bruno; Figueira, Bruno								Training Load and Post-Exercise Recovery Following Varied Game Intervals in 3x3 Basketball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				247	261		10.5114/jhk/203324			FEB 2025	2025	The study aimed (I) to quantify external and internal training loads during simulated 3x3 basketball games of 1, 2, 3, and 4 min, each followed by 1-min rest intervals; and (II) to assess the heart rate and muscle oxygen saturation recovery rates following, 1-, 2-, 3-, and 4-min periods of play. Twelve (n = 12) elite male 3x3 basketball players (age: 26.6 +/- 5.6 years, body height: 196.8 +/- 5.5 cm, body mass: 92.0 +/- 9.5 kg, training experience: 15.4 +/- 3.9 years, and 3x3 basketball training experience: 4.8 +/- 1.6 years) from the Lithuanian national team participated in two controlled simulated games. Differences between playing intervals were analysed using a repeated-measures factorial analysis of variance. The results demonstrated that extended 3x3 basketball play duration led to significant increases in total distance covered, the sprint count, and the jump count, while diminishing dynamic responses in the deceleration rate, average speed, the jump rate, and high-intensity effort. Notably, SmO2 levels exhibited stability during recovery intervals regardless of activity duration, whereas heart rate recovery improved markedly, particularly following extended play periods. This knowledge is instrumental in refining training protocols for 3x3 basketball, emphasizing the necessity of recovery strategies tailored to specific play duration.		[Paulauskas, Rutenis; Kamarauskas, Paulius; Figueira, Bruno] Vytautas Magnus Univ, Educ Res Inst, Educ Acad, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Gonsalves, Bruno; Figueira, Bruno] Univ Evora, Sch Hlth & Human Dev, Dept Sport & Hlth, Evora, Portugal; [Gonsalves, Bruno; Figueira, Bruno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Figueira, Bruno] Vytautas Magnus Univ, Educ Res Inst, Educ Acad, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Figueira, Bruno] Univ Evora, Sch Hlth & Human Dev, Dept Sport & Hlth, Evora, Portugal; [Figueira, Bruno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700018	43	Article; Article		
J	Jimenez, Mario Amatria; Cook, Natan Andres; Suarez-Llorca, Concepcion; Perez-Turpin, Jose Antonio								The Impact of Offensive Duration on NBA Success: A Comparative Analysis of Jordan's Chicago Bulls and Curry's Golden State Warriors								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				225	233		10.5114/jhk/197207			FEB 2025	2025	This study investigated the influence of offensive play duration on the competitive performance of two NBA teams with the most regular-season victories in the league history. Using observational methodology, differences in the length and speed of offensive actions and their corresponding shooting efficiency were examined. Results revealed significant contrasts in the play tempo, with one team favoring fast, explosive plays (Golden State Warriors) and the other adopting slower, more strategic maneuvers (Chicago Bulls). Despite these differences, both teams maintained comparable shooting success rates. This suggests that the ability to adjust the play tempo according to game circumstances and opponent characteristics is critical for maximizing offensive efficiency. Moreover, the study demonstrates that variability in possession duration is strongly linked to fatigue management and the balance between anaerobic and aerobic energy systems. This finding underscores the importance of tactical flexibility, as adjusting the pace and intensity of play can be a decisive factor in modern basketball success, where shorter, quicker, and more explosive plays are increasingly prevalent. The study concludes that dynamic time-of-possession management and adaptive efforts are key to optimizing high-level competitive performance.		[Jimenez, Mario Amatria; Cook, Natan Andres] Pontif Univ Salamanca, Fac Educ, Salamanca, Spain; [Suarez-Llorca, Concepcion] Univ Alicante, Dept Dev & Educ Psychol, Alicante, Spain; [Perez-Turpin, Jose Antonio] Univ Alicante, Dept Gen Didact & Specif Didact, Alicante, Spain; [Perez-Turpin, Jose Antonio] Univ Alicante, Dept Gen Didact & Specif Didact, Alicante, Spain								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700016	42	Article; Article		
J	Nikolic, Milos; Milanovic, Zoran; Sansone, Pierpaolo; Paulauskas, Henrikas; Kamarauskas, Paulius; Conte, Daniele								Investigating the Effect of Playing Different Defensive Styles and Court Sizes on Physical, Perceived, and Technical Demands in Basketball Small-Sided Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				201	211		10.5114/jhk/202929			FEB 2025	2025	This study aimed to determine the effects of different defensive styles (i.e., man-to-man vs. zone) and court sizes (full vs. half) on physical [PlayerLoad (TM) (PL), total jumps and jumps in low (<20 cm), medium (21-40 cm), and high (>41 cm) bands, the number of and distance covered during accelerations and decelerations divided in high (>2 m center dot s(-2)) and low intensity (<2 m center dot s(-2)) bands], perceived [rating of perceived exertion (RPE)] and technical (total, scored, missed and % of made shots, rebounds, steals, assists, turnovers, and blocks) demands during basketball small-sided games (SSGs). Ten semi-professional male basketball players (age: 20.4 +/- 2.1 years; stature: 189.4 +/- 8.1 cm; body mass: 77.4 +/- 8.4 kg) from the same basketball team participated in this study. Players were asked to play four 5 vs. 5 SSG typologies in randomized order: 1) half-court man-to-man defense, 2) half-court zone defense, 3) full-court man-to-man defense, and 4) full-court zone defense. No significant interaction (p > 0.05) between two independent variables was observed for physical demands. An effect of court size was found for most of the physical demand measures (except jumps) with higher values (p < 0.05) found in full court SSGs. The defensive style had an effect (p < 0.05, trivial-to-small) on total distance and low-intensity accelerations and decelerations. No effects were evident for the independent variables on the RPE and technical demands. Coaches should design full court SSGs when aiming at increasing players' physical demands. Differently, similar physical, perceived and technical demands should be expected when playing man-to-man or zone defense during SSGs.		[Nikolic, Milos; Milanovic, Zoran] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Nish, Serbia; [Milanovic, Zoran] Sci & Res Ctr Koper, Inst Kinesiol Res, Koper, Slovenia; [Milanovic, Zoran] Masaryk Univ, Fac Sports Studies, Incubator Kinanthropol Res, Brno, Czech Republic; [Sansone, Pierpaolo] Pegaso Telemat Univ, Dept Educ & Sport Sci, Naples, Italy; [Paulauskas, Henrikas; Kamarauskas, Paulius] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Inst Sport Sci & Innovat, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Kamarauskas, Paulius] Vytautas Magnus Univ, Educ Acad, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Conte, Daniele] Univ Rome Foro Italico, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Rome, Italy; [Conte, Daniele] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Dept Coaching Sci, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Conte, Daniele] Univ Rome Foro Italico, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Rome, Italy; [Conte, Daniele] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Dept Coaching Sci, Kaunas, Lithuania								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700014	30	Article; Article		
J	Faulks, Tom; Petway, Adam; Drury, Mark; Walter, Sibi								Reliability and Feasibility of Change of Direction Testing in National Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96							10.5114/jhk/200868			FEB 2025	2025	The reliability and feasibility of a 2-2 shuffle test time against on-court lateral change of direction performance was examined. Ten male national league players performed two trials of the 2-2 shuffle test per direction and were compared against their total steals throughout the season. Intraday reliability of the test was computed using BlandAltman plots, intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) and coefficients of variations (CVs). Anthropometric and total steals differences between fast and slow 2-2 shuffle performance were assessed with an independent t-test, percent difference (Diff %), and effect size (ES). The 2-2 shuffle test time for dominant (ICC = 0.86, CV = 8.61%) and nondominant (ICC = 0.90, CV = 9.30%) directions met pre-determined reliability thresholds (ICC > 0.8, CV < 10%). Faster 2-2 shufflers were significantly shorter (1.91 +/- 0.03 vs. 2.02 +/- 0.09, Diff % -5.45, p = 0.03, ES = -1.3) in height and accrued more total steals than their slower counterparts (15.60 +/- 9.24 vs. 9.00 +/- 6.44, Diff % 42.31, p = 0.22, ES = -0.8). Practitioners may add the 2-2 shuffle to their assessment battery as the test time is a reliable metric and can show the direction for on-court lateral performance as reflected by total steals.		[Faulks, Tom; Drury, Mark; Walter, Sibi] Univ Canterbury, Fac Hlth, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Petway, Adam] Mississippi State Univ, Ctr Adv Vehicular Syst, Human Factors & Athlete Engn, Starkville, MS USA; [Walter, Sibi] Univ Canterbury, Fac Hlth, Christchurch, New Zealand								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700008	31	Article; Article		
J	Patterson, Jack; Rayner, Russell; Carey, David L.; O'Grady, Mathew; Talpey, Scott W.								The Influence of Contextual Variables on Training Load Prescription in Basketball: An Example of a Professional Australian Men's Basketball Team								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				177	186		10.5114/jhk/202812			FEB 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate the influence of contextual variables related to team performance, individual performance and scheduling on the external training load placed upon professional basketball players following a won compared to a lost game. Fifteen male professional basketball players from a single club competing in the Australia's top tier National Basketball League (NBL) during the 2023/2024 season participated in this study. Total player load, peak player load, player load per minute and the work to rest ratio derived from accelerometry were measures of external player load used in the analysis. Linear mixed models with the match outcome (win/loss), expected margin vs. outcome, days between games, and player efficiency as fixed effects, and player ID as a random intercept were employed. A statistically significant (p = 0.001) 62.46 au difference in total player load was observed following a win compared to a loss. However, when considering the random effects of an individual, individual performance, team performance and scheduling as fixed effects, anon-significant (p = 0.086) difference was observed with the individual player being the most influential variable. There were no statistically significant differences in peak player load (p = 0.734), player load per minute (p = 0.281), and the work to rest ratio (p = 0.782) following a win compared to a loss. The external training load prescribed to professional basketball players is highly individualized. Practitioners monitoring the training demands of players should consider the influence of individual factors when designing training.		[Patterson, Jack; Carey, David L.; Talpey, Scott W.] La Trobe Univ, Sports Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Rayner, Russell] Charles Sturt Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Exercise & Sport Sci, Port Macquarie, NSW, Australia; [O'Grady, Mathew] Federat Univ, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, Mt Helen, Vic, Australia; [Talpey, Scott W.] La Trobe Univ, Sports Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700012	27	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Tae-Jin; Ha, Kyeong-Hyon; Park, Tae-Young; Kim, Jung-Hyun; Lee, Jung-Min; Jung, Hyun Chul								Effects of Partial-Body Cryotherapy on Athletic Performance and Sleep Quality in Division I Collegiate Basketball Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96							10.5114/jhk/203236			FEB 2025	2025	This study examined the effects of short-term partial-body cryotherapy (PBC) on athletic performance and sleep quality in Division I collegiate basketball athletes. A crossover, counter-balanced design was employed with twelve collegiate basketball athletes randomly assigned to five days of a post-exercise PBC condition or a control condition. Athletic performance was assessed using six standardized tests from the Korean Basketball League (KBL) Draft combine. Objective and subjective sleep quality were measured using actigraphy and three validated sleep questionnaires, respectively. The number of pull-ups performed significantly increased after the PBC condition (9.2 +/- 4.59 vs. 11.9 +/- 4.77 reps, p < 0.05), whereas no improvements were observed in other performance measures, including the maximum repetitions of the 75-kg bench press, sprint speed, vertical jump height, and agility. Subjective and objective sleep quality were not enhanced after the PBC condition. These findings suggest that a short-term (5-day) application of PBC has only a limited effect on athletic performance and no effect on sleep quality. Future studies with longer intervention periods are needed to better understand the effects of PBC on athletic performance and sleep quality.		[Kim, Tae-Jin; Ha, Kyeong-Hyon; Park, Tae-Young] Kyung Hee Univ, Grad Sch Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Yongin, South Korea; [Kim, Jung-Hyun] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Sports Med, Yongin, South Korea; [Kim, Jung-Hyun; Lee, Jung-Min; Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Sports Sci Res Ctr, Yongin, South Korea; [Lee, Jung-Min; Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Yongin, South Korea; [Lee, Jung-Min; Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Sports Coaching, Yongin, South Korea; [Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Sports Sci Res Ctr, Yongin, South Korea; [Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Yongin, South Korea; [Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Sports Coaching, Yongin, South Korea								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700013	36	Article; Article		
J	Li, Jiaying; Kim, Youngsuk; Li, Han; Zhu, Bin; Kim, Sukwon								Arm Joint Coordination of Collegiate Basketball Athletes and Recreational Players when Shooting behind the 3-Point Line								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				129	143		10.5114/jhk/203104			FEB 2025	2025	The primary purpose of this study was to identify exemplary basketball shooting mechanics to devise an effective and efficient training method for successful basketball shooting. Motion data of basketball shots by 10 recreational players and 10 college athletes at three different distances (3.2 m, 5 m, 6.8 m) were collected using 13 cameras (240 Hz). The present study quantified the upper extremity joint coordination using the vector-coded Coupled Angular Variability (CAV). Recreational players exhibited higher CAV at 6.8 m (Median P50 = 16.947), whereas college athletes exhibited higher CAV at 5 m (Median P50 = 18.487). The primary focus of arm coordination patterns was on shoulder joint coordination during the preparation phase, with higher coordination variability associated with greater shot accuracy. Recreational athletes straightened their shoulder and elbow joints simultaneously when performing a basketball shot. In contrast, collegiate athletes showed variations primarily resulting from proximal coordination patterns, leading to a larger range of motion (ROM) for elbow joint flexion and extension. This finding could fundamentally alter how shooting is practiced.		[Li, Jiaying; Kim, Youngsuk; Zhu, Bin; Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea; [Li, Han] Anhui Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Wuhu, Peoples R China; [Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700009	36	Article; Article		
J	Zemkova, Erika; Hornikova, Henrieta; Skala, Filip; Argaj, Gustav								Association of Game-Specific Performance of Young Skilled Basketball Players with Sensorimotor Factors of Agility Skills								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				213	223		10.5114/jhk/202260			FEB 2025	2025	Reactive agility is one of the most important skills in basketball. However, the question remains to what extent the sensory and motor components of agility contribute to specific performance in the game. This study investigated the relationship between indicators of game-specific performance and perceptual-cognitive and physical aspects of agility performance in youth skilled basketball players. A group of 16 basketball players (age 15.5 +/- 0.9 years) performed visual perception tasks, divided attention tasks, simple and choice reaction tests, along with Y-shaped and Lane agility tests. Their specific game performance was evaluated using the game statistics analysis. The visual perception score significantly correlated with assists (r = 0.850, p = 0.000), game efficiency (r = 0.760, p = 0.001) and total points scored (r = 0.715, p = 0.003). Coefficients of determination showed that visual perception explained 72.3% of the variance in assists, 57.8% in game efficiency and 51.1% in total points scored. These findings indicate that specific game performance in basketball is not associated with sensory and physical aspects of agility skills in youth players. An exception is visual perception, which plays a significant role in their performance. Players with better visual perception are able to dish out more assists, are more efficient in the game and score more points overall.		[Zemkova, Erika; Skala, Filip] Comenius Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Dept Biol & Med Sci, Bratislava, Slovakia; [Hornikova, Henrieta] Comenius Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Dept Track & Field & Sport Conditioning, Bratislava, Slovakia; [Argaj, Gustav] Comenius Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Dept Sports Games, Bratislava, Slovakia; [Zemkova, Erika] Comenius Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Dept Biol & Med Sci, Bratislava, Slovakia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700015	40	Article; Article		
J	Arboix-Alio, Jordi; Busca, Bernat; Peralta-Geis, Mariona; Montalvo, Alicia M.; Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara								The Relationship between Change-of-Direction Performance Indicators and Inter-Limb Asymmetries in Elite Youth Female Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				96				235	246		10.5114/jhk/202104			FEB 2025	2025	The purposes of this study were to characterize the magnitude and the direction of inter-limb asymmetries in elite youth female basketball players and to evaluate any associations with indicators of change-of-direction (COD) performance. Eighteen elite youth female basketball players (17.79 +/- 0.67 years; 71.10 +/- 7.43 kg; 1.82 +/- 0.07 m; 23.01 +/- 1.69 kg center dot(m2)-1) participated in a battery of tests, including 70 degrees and 180 degrees COD, single-leg countermovement jump (SLCMJ), and single-leg drop jump (SLDJ) tests. Inter-limb asymmetry indices (ASIs) were calculated, and correlations with COD performance indicators were examined. The results indicated significant differences between dominant and non-dominant limbs in all tasks, with ASI values ranging from 3.02% to 27.8%. Directionality of asymmetry varied across tests. Correlation analysis revealed that greater asymmetry was associated with slower COD performance (rho range = -0.67 to 0.57). Moreover, asymmetry in some tasks was related to lower ground reaction forces (GRFs) (rho range = -0.60 to -0.42) and higher contact times during COD 180 degrees (rho = 0.45). The results of this study support the need to address inter-limb asymmetries in basketball players. Coaches and practitioners should consider targeted interventions to minimize asymmetry and enhance COD skills. A comprehensive battery of fitness assessments is recommended to provide a holistic understanding of inter-limb asymmetries.		[Arboix-Alio, Jordi; Busca, Bernat; Peralta-Geis, Mariona; Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Ramon Llull Univ, Dept Sports Sci, FPCEE Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Arboix-Alio, Jordi; Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Ramon Llull Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, FCS Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Arboix-Alio, Jordi] FC Barcelona, Sport Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain; [Montalvo, Alicia M.] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth Solut, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Catalan Federat Basketball, Segle XXI Female Basketball Team, Esplugas de Llobregat, Spain; [Arboix-Alio, Jordi] Ramon Llull Univ, Dept Sports Sci, FPCEE Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Arboix-Alio, Jordi] Ramon Llull Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, FCS Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Arboix-Alio, Jordi] FC Barcelona, Sport Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001483053700017	41	Article; Article		
J	Pettitt, Robert W.; Dicks, Nathan D.; Kramer, Mark								Applications of the 3-Min All-Out Exercise Test for Prescribing High-Intensity Interval Training: A Narrative Review on a Decade of Research Progress								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	1			45	55		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000848			FEB 2025	2025	The 3-minute all-out exercise test (3MT) was developed over a decade ago and enables the estimation of time for onset of momentary fatigue for a given speed or power output exceeding critical speed (CS) or critical power (CP), respectively. The 3MT has been validated for conducting high-intensity interval training, used with load carriage prediction and prescription, and validated for shuttle running. These prescriptions are novel because they allow for standardizing exercise intensities relative to metabolic parameters as opposed to a percentage of a given maximum or reserve. Research was identified using leading search engines (e.g., PubMed, Google Scholar, and Research Gate) and citations to similar articles. The objective of this review article was to summarize research that emerged on the CS/CP concept with emphasis on applications since the advent of the 3MT. The review concludes with application of the CS/CP concept to the frequency, intensity, time, and type of exercise for exercise prescription.		[Pettitt, Robert W.] Salt Lake Community Coll, Sch Hlth Sci, Salt Lake City, UT 84123 USA; [Dicks, Nathan D.] North Dakota State Univ, Dept Hlth Nutr & Exercise Sci, Fargo, ND USA; [Kramer, Mark] North West Univ, Phys Act Sport & Recreat PhASRec Res Focus Area, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Pettitt, Robert W.] Salt Lake Community Coll, Sch Hlth Sci, Salt Lake City, UT 84123 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001413307200001	68	Article; Article		
J	Orr, Robin; Lockie, Robert; Canetti, Elisa F. D.; Black, Johnathan; Robinson, Jeremy; Dawes, J. Jay; Schram, Ben								Conditioning for Strength, Power, and Aerobic Fitness for Specialist Police Tactical Groups								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	1			1	7		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000841			FEB 2025	2025	Police officers serving in specialist Police Tactical Groups (PTG), including Special Weapons and Tactics teams, are called on to perform tasks in highly volatile and unpredictable situations beyond those of general duties police officers. In addition to carrying loads of 20-25 kg, these officers have, and require, levels of fitness above that of the civilian population, general duties police, and even elite athletes. Through the PTGs' occupational lifespan, from initial selection to operational duties, candidates and serving officers require strength (both absolute and relative), power, and metabolic fitness (aerobic and anaerobic) to pass selection, mitigate injury, and perform occupational tasks. Given the complexities of conditioning these officers, including shift work and unpredictable job demands, a conjugate block periodization approach may be of value. Evidence suggests that a block periodization approach of 3 to 4 mesocycles, including an accumulation phase, a transmutation phase, a realization phase, and potentially a deloading or recovery phase may ensure an adequate training stimulus for these specialist officers. This is especially the case when supported by a dedicated and experienced strength and conditioning coach.		[Orr, Robin; Canetti, Elisa F. D.; Robinson, Jeremy; Schram, Ben] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Gold Coast, Australia; [Orr, Robin; Canetti, Elisa F. D.; Robinson, Jeremy; Schram, Ben] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Lockie, Robert] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA USA; [Black, Johnathan] Police Serv Northern Ireland, Phys Hlth & Wellbeing, Ballymoney, North Ireland; [Dawes, J. Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK USA; [Orr, Robin] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Gold Coast, Australia; [Orr, Robin] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001413307200011	31	Article; Article		
J	Lino-Mesquita, Joao; Baptista, Ivan; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Casanova, Filipe; Yousefian, Farzad; Travassos, Bruno; Afonso, Jose								The Complexity of Defining and Assessing the Most Demanding Periods of Play in Team Sports: A Current Opinion								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	1			86	94		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000859			FEB 2025	2025	In the context of training load monitoring, the most demanding periods of play (MDPs) have increasingly caught the interest of researchers. However, the MDPs analysis is currently embryonic, raising some conceptual and methodological questions. This current opinion synthesizes the methods used for the MDPs analysis while highlighting conceptual and methodological gaps and proposing a broader perspective on the topic. It is underlined that (a) the information available on the MDPs is mostly limited to external load (particularly running-based metrics), with scarce research focused on internal load; (b) the metrics have been analyzed in a univariate way, neglecting the multivariate scenarios from which the MDPs emerge; (c) the MDPs are highly variable over time due to the complex interaction between individual, tactical-technical, and contextual factors; and (d) scarce evidence is available regarding the contextualization of the MDPs from a tactical-technical perspective. Thus, the MDPs would benefit from cross-referencing external load with game moments and tactical actions while avoiding the idea of fixed benchmarks given the inherent match-to-match variability. Practitioners may consider replicating the MDPs (and their contexts) in (some?) training sessions as a complementary prescription strategy (metaphorically, the cherry on top, not the cake). However, the feasibility and effectiveness of such practices warrant investigation.		[Lino-Mesquita, Joao; Baptista, Ivan; Afonso, Jose] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Baptista, Ivan] UiT Arctic Univ Norway, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Comp Sci, Tromso, Norway; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Casanova, Filipe] Lusofona Univ, Res Ctr Sports Phys Educ Exercise & Hlth CIDEFES, Lisbon, Portugal; [Yousefian, Farzad; Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Yousefian, Farzad; Travassos, Bruno] Portugal Football Sch, Portuguese Football Federat, Oeiras, Portugal; [Lino-Mesquita, Joao] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001413307200007	51	Article; Article		
J	Allen, Charles R.; Mantei, Devin R.; Wallace, Zack T.								The Landmine Rotation								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	1			109	113		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000845			FEB 2025	2025	The landmine rotation is a multipurpose, total body, strength and power exercise that bridges the gap between traditional resistance exercise and rotational sport specificity. This article describes proper landmine rotation technique, outlines several variations, and offers programming recommendations.		[Allen, Charles R.; Mantei, Devin R.] Florida Southern Coll, Exercise Sci Program, Lakeland, FL 33801 USA; [Wallace, Zack T.] Univ North Georgia, Athlet Dept, Dahlonega, GA USA; [Allen, Charles R.] Florida Southern Coll, Exercise Sci Program, Lakeland, FL 33801 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001413307200013	29	Article; Article		
J	Kraemer, William J.; Nitka, Mike								The Grip								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				47	1			114	117		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000851			FEB 2025	2025	In the realm of resistance training, the significance of grip technique is often understated yet crucial for performance enhancement and injury prevention. This Inside the Box provides a comprehensive analysis of grip methods, focusing on the mechanics and applications of closed and open grips. It details the variations of the closed grip-pronated, supinated, and mixed-and their specific muscular engagements. Our article also critically examines the open grip, acknowledging its benefits in muscle targeting while emphasizing its heightened risk of injury, particularly in heavy lifting scenarios. The synthesis of these insights offers a practical guide for safe and effective resistance exercise methods. The article underscores the necessity of understanding grip techniques in resistance exercise, aiming to enhance coaches' and athletes' education and safety awareness.		[Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Athlet, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Nitka, Mike] Muskego High Sch, Muskego, WI USA; [Nitka, Mike] Carroll Univ, Waukesha, WI USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Athlet, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001413307200010	5	Article; Article		
J	Arashi, Masoud; Webster, Collin A.; Mindrila, Diana; Duda, Joan L.; Stankic, Dragan; Peric, Dusan; Banicevic, Ivana; Banicevic, Zeljko								Associations Between Intrinsic Motivation, Exercise Attitudes, Physical Activity, and Mental Health in Young Adolescents: An Integrated Motivational Perspective								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			513	522		10.1080/02701367.2024.2446545			JUL 3 2025	2025	Purpose: Physical activity (PA) and mental health (MH) are priorities for health promotion during early adolescence. This study explored associations between intrinsic motivation for PA, exercise attitudes, PA and MH in young adolescents. Methods: Participants were 315 students (Mage = 11.41; SD = 2.09; 45.1% girls) conveniently sampled from two private British schools in Dubai. Data were collected via a survey and analyzed using structural equation modeling. Results: As hypothesized, higher intrinsic motivation was directly associated with more favorable exercise attitudes, and attitudes was directly associated with increased PA. Unexpectedly, however, PA was not associated with better MH outcomes. A better fitting model was specified in which attitudes was directly associated with both PA and MH. Conclusions: Further research examining associations between exercise attitudes, PA, and MH in young adolescents is warranted.		[Arashi, Masoud] Univ Birmingham Dubai, Dubai, U Arab Emirates; [Webster, Collin A.] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Corpus Christi, TX USA; [Mindrila, Diana] Univ West Georgia, Carrollton, GA USA; [Duda, Joan L.] Univ Birmingham, Birmingham, England; [Stankic, Dragan; Peric, Dusan; Banicevic, Ivana; Banicevic, Zeljko] HERC Hlth Exercise & Res Ctr, Dubai, U Arab Emirates; [Stankic, Dragan; Peric, Dusan; Banicevic, Ivana; Banicevic, Zeljko] Educons Univ, Sremska Kamenica, Serbia; [Webster, Collin A.] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 6300 Ocean Dr, Corpus Christi, TX 78412 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001409599000001	58	Article; Article		
J	Baek, Seungho; Mori, Kanji; Cheng, Kai-Jen; Alvis, Hunter B.; Lee, Byungjoo; Martinez, Andrea; Kwon, Young-Hoo								Angular motion of the thorax during the golf swing: a comparison of two orientation angle sequences								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2342	2361		10.1080/14763141.2025.2458481			AUG 3 2025	2025	Orientation angles are commonly used to describe complex angular motions of the body. Selecting the most appropriate rotation sequence for a given segment's motion is crucial. The purpose of this study was to develop a set of generalisable, primary axis-centric sequence selection strategies and to compare the lean direction-lean-rotation (LDLR) sequence, selected for thoracic motion during golf driving based on the strategies, with the conventional rotation-bend-side bend (RBSB) sequence in assessing the level of inter-angle cross-talk. The RBSB method consistently revealed a higher level of inter-angle cross-talk, with substantially larger bi-angle ICC values across all angle combinations. The rotation-side bend and bend-side bend pairs in the RBSB method exhibited the largest ICC values (>= 0.837). In contrast, the rotation-lean and lean direction-lean pairs in the LDLR method showed the smallest ICC values (<= 0.063). The RBSB sequence demonstrated significantly larger RMS angle ranges (p < .001), indicating a deterioration of the major angle and inflation of the minor angles due to cross-talk. The LDLR sequence realistically portrayed the axial rotation-dominant thoracic motion during the golf drive. The strategies outlined in this study can serve as general guidelines and substantially enhance the applicability of the orientation angle method.		[Baek, Seungho; Mori, Kanji; Cheng, Kai-Jen; Alvis, Hunter B.; Lee, Byungjoo; Martinez, Andrea; Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womans Univ, Biomech & Motor Behav Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womans Univ, Biomech & Motor Behav Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001411258600001	25	Article; Article		
J	Feria-Madueno, Adrian; Hewett, Timothy E.; Sanudo, Borja								Effect of a tailored exercise programme on kinematics and kinetic knee injury risk during different side-cutting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2376	2393		10.1080/14763141.2025.2458486			AUG 3 2025	2025	Despite the high incidence of knee injuries reported in non-professional sports, the implementation of specific training programmes aimed at mitigating the kinematic and kinetic factors associated with these injuries remains limited. To determine the effects of a tailored exercise programme on kinematic and kinetic variables during side-cutting activities. Fifty-seven physically active participants were randomised into control group (CG; n: 28) that received no intervention, and an experimental group (EG; n: 29), that performed an individualised exercise programme that included a combination of strength, neuromuscular, proprioceptive, eccentric training and whole-body vibration (WBV) exercises. Knee, hip and trunk angles, vertical ground reaction force (VGRF), force in the antero-posterior (AP) and medio-lateral (ML) axes, acceleration, contact time and impulse were assessed during three types of side-cutting, two open manoeuvres (30 degrees and 45 degrees - SC30 and SC45 -respectively) and one closed manoeuvre (45 degrees - SC45cl-). After the 12-week intervention, EG participants had lower knee extension during all side-cuttings, shorter contact time and lower acceleration, VGRF and impulse compared to CG during side-cutting manoeuvres. A tailored exercise programme could be an effective neuromuscular and biomechanical strategy to reduce risk factors for knee injury in healthy, physically active young people.		[Feria-Madueno, Adrian; Sanudo, Borja] Univ Seville, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Seville, Spain; [Hewett, Timothy E.] Marshall Univ, Marshall Univ Biomech Labs & Sports Med Res, Dept Orthoped, Huntington, WV USA; [Feria-Madueno, Adrian] Univ Seville, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Seville, Spain								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001409594100001	61	Article; Article		
J	Zhu, Dong Hong								Experiential virtual reality or informational video advertising? Assessing promotional effect on sport interest								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			619	635		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2024-0252			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposePromoting people's interest in sports is not only important to sports enterprises to improve financial performance but also to the healthy development of the whole society. As virtual reality (VR) devices become more accessible and consumers' demand for immersive experiences increases, VR advertising is gradually attracting the attention of advertisers. However, there is limited research on what situations are more suitable for VR advertising compared to traditional advertising forms in promoting people's sport interest. This study aims to compare the influence of experiential VR advertising and informational video advertising on sport interest.Design/methodology/approachAs sports programs are advertised not only to novices but also to experienced people, this study investigates the interaction effect of advertising type (experiential VR vs informational video) and previous experience (high vs low) on promoting sport interest. We recruited 216 participants. They were randomly assigned to one of two conditions: an experiential VR advertisement of table tennis played by using a VR headset and an informational video advertisement of table tennis watched on a PC.FindingsThe results show that experiential VR advertising generates higher sport interest than informational video advertising for those with low previous experience and vividness and presence play a sequential mediating role. For those with high previous experience, there was no significant difference between the two advertising forms.Originality/valueThe findings extend sport advertising research with different advertising types and complement the new moderator of previous experience, providing a new perspective for insight into the differences between VR advertising and video advertising.		[Zhu, Dong Hong] Huazhong Univ Sci & Technol, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Dong Hong] Huazhong Univ Sci & Technol, Wuhan, Peoples R China								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001408435500001	67	Article; Article		
J	Al-Jabali, Rasha Najib; Ahmad, Norasnita; Chiu, Weisheng								Continuance intention to use mobile fitness applications: the role of switching costs, guilt and neutralization techniques								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			599	618		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2024-0244			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposeThe study investigates the factors influencing the continuance intention to use Mobile Fitness Applications (MFAs), focusing on the roles of switching costs, guilt, and neutralization techniques in addressing temporary discontinuance.Design/methodology/approachA total of 212 valid responses were collected via an online survey in Malaysia. The data were analyzed using Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modeling (PLS-SEM) to understand the relationships between the constructs.FindingsThe study confirms the significant impact of the Expectation Confirmation Model (ECM) constructs on the continuance intention to use MFAs. It highlights how users employ neutralization techniques to mitigate guilt from temporary discontinuance. Additionally, the study reveals that switching costs moderate the relationship between cognitive satisfaction and continuance intention, as well as between guilt and continuance intention. However, the direct effect of switching costs on continuance intention is negligible.Originality/valueThis research extends continuance intention literature by integrating switching costs, guilt, and neutralization techniques into the ECM framework, providing novel insights into user behavior regarding MFA discontinuance.		[Al-Jabali, Rasha Najib; Ahmad, Norasnita] Univ Teknol Malaysia, Fac Management, Johor Baharu, Johor, Malaysia; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Al-Jabali, Rasha Najib] Univ Teknol Malaysia, Fac Management, Johor Baharu, Johor, Malaysia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001408435300001	80	Article; Article		
J	Das, Muralee; O'Reilly, Norm; Evans, Kelly; Pasqualicchio, Gary								National Sports Networks rights fees: the influence of fantasy sports participation and women's sports content								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	6			47	65		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2023-0154			JAN 30 2025	2025	PurposeThe aims of this study are to, first, articulate the drivers for predicting rights fees in television sports programming on National Sports Networks (NSNs) and, second, to further investigate the interrelationships of the identified drivers.Design/methodology/approachThe entire annual (24-h days over 12 months) schedule of a NSN is assessed using a series of regression models to determine the drivers, magnitude (Study 1) and interrelationships (Study 2) of those drivers, on the rights fees paid (or received in some cases) by the network to (from) those sports properties.FindingsTV ratings are found to be a driver for identifying rights fees for television sports programs. However, there are other drivers to consider, including the very strong influence of off-the-field engagement. Another finding is the negative influence that deal length has on rights fees, with longer deals providing security but lower fees. The geography of the sports property also influences rights fees. The inclusion of female sports content resulted in lower fantasy sports participation (H1). Active fantasy sports participation has a positive relationship with television ratings (H2), rights fees (H3) and increased viewership of actual matches or games (H4).Originality/valueActive fantasy sports participation contributed positively to rights fees, and women's sports content had an inverse effect on active fantasy sports participation. The association between the inclusion of female sports on broadcasts and fantasy sports participation requires intervention and further investigation into why this relationship is negative. The knowledge that participation in fantasy sports results in increased ratings and rights fees, that television ratings mediate the fantasy sports/rights fees relationship and that it supports the importance of fantasy sports for sports properties and media organizations.		[Das, Muralee] Univ Maine, Maine Business Sch, Orono, ME USA; [O'Reilly, Norm] Univ Maine, Grad Sch Business, Maine Business Sch, Orono, ME 04469 USA; [Evans, Kelly] Metropolitan State Univ Denver, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Denver, CO USA; [Pasqualicchio, Gary] Ohio Univ, Dept Sports Adm, Athens, OH USA; [O'Reilly, Norm] Univ Maine, Grad Sch Business, Maine Business Sch, Orono, ME 04469 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001408508000001	44	Article; Article		
J	Bonney, Nathan; Berry, Jason; O'Brien, Brendan; Larkin, Paul								Validity and Reliability of a Kicking Skill Test to Benchmark Talent Development and Identification in Australian Football: A Professional Senior and Elite Junior Comparison								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			497	504		10.1080/02701367.2024.2444671			JUL 3 2025	2025	Australian Football (AF) is a fast-paced contact invasion sport that requires players to execute a variety of kicks to effectively pass the football and score a goal. Current assessment of elite senior kicking skills in AF is confined to isolated and static skill tests that do not adequately represent match-like skill demands. The purpose of this study is to overcome the test design issues currently present in elite senior testing protocols, within the applied setting, and assess the validity and reliability of a modified Level-3 Australian football field-based dynamic kicking assessment (AFFB-DKA) for senior elite AF players. Construct validity was assessed using 24 elite football players (12 elite seniors and 12 national juniors) with a comparison of mean test scores across different skill standards. The results demonstrated a significant difference between elite-senior and national-junior groups (p = <.001). Test-retest reliability was assessed with the national-junior group (n = 12) over two consecutive sessions. Mean scores demonstrated an ICC value of 0.95 (CI 0.85-0.98) and a CV of 4.9%. This study demonstrated a high level of construct validity by effectively distinguishing the kicking skill between elite-senior and elite-junior skill groups. The modified AFFB-DKA also possessed an acceptable level of reliability and thus provides coaches, recruitersand sport science staff with a measurement tool to effectively assess kicking skill performance in elite senior AF.		[Bonney, Nathan; Larkin, Paul] Victoria Univ, Melbourne, Australia; [Berry, Jason] IMG Acad, Bradenton, FL USA; [O'Brien, Brendan] Federat Univ Australia, Ballarat, Australia; [Larkin, Paul] Maribyrnong Sports Acad, Melbourne, Australia; [Bonney, Nathan] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001410768700001	33	Article; Article		
J	Yildiz, Yeliz Ay; Ercan, Sabriye; Orscelik, Aydan								The reality of pressure ulcers: an exploratory sequential mixed design study in coaches and Paralympic athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	4			282	290		10.1080/00913847.2025.2456452			JUL 4 2025	2025	ObjectivesThis study aims to explore and understand the knowledge and attitudes of Paralympic athletes and their coaches toward pressure ulcers. By focusing on this underserved population, the study seeks to improve awareness, recognition, and management practices to minimize the health and performance impacts of pressure ulcers in Paralympic sports.MethodsParalympic athletes and their coaches were contacted. Volunteers were included in the exploratory sequential mixed design study. In the quantitative phase, a digital survey was used to evaluate Paralympic athletes' and coaches' awareness of pressure ulcers. To gain a deeper understanding of the factors deemed significant in the quantitative analyses, the researcher conducted one-on-one semi-structured interviews with athletes and coaches. The data was analyzed using the SPSS package program and MAXQDA program.ResultsTen coaches and 82 Paralympic athletes participated in the study. The sports disciplines were wheelchair basketball (40%), Paralympic table tennis (40%), Paralympic court tennis (10%), and athletics (10%). Coaches' knowledge about pressure ulcers was low, and athletes' knowledge was even lower. It was concluded that coaches should improve their attitudes toward pressure ulcers, particularly in the areas of competence and responsibility sharing. During the interviews with the participants, several themes emerged.ConclusionTo address pressure ulcers' significance, it is essential to increase the knowledge level of both athletes and the entire team and adopt a positive attitude. It has been concluded that different areas of expertise in the fields of health and sports should work with a more organized structure and team awareness.		[Yildiz, Yeliz Ay] Alanya Alaaddin Keykubat Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Antalya, Turkiye; [Ercan, Sabriye] Suleyman Demirel Univ, Med Fac, Dept Sports Med, Isparta, Turkiye; [Orscelik, Aydan] Saglik Bilimleri Univ Gulhane, Med Fac, Dept Sports Med, Ankara, Turkiye; [Orscelik, Aydan] Alanya Alaaddin Keykubat Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Ankara, Turkiye								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001407003500001	26	Article; Article		
J	Aerts, Jean-Marie; Moons, Karen; Masci, Federica; Meeusen, Romain; Gielen, Jasper								Identifying stakeholder perspectives and priorities for athlete monitoring technology: A mixed-methods study based on interviewing Belgian high-performance sports organisations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			973	987		10.1177/17479541241312015			JUN 2025	2025	The rapid growth of technology in managing training processes offers both opportunities and challenges for sports practitioners. This study examines factors influencing technology adoption in four high-performance sports: golf, sprint kayak, freestyle snowboarding, and volleyball. Each discipline reflects distinct physiological and training needs. Using an interview-based approach and including 25 stakeholders (6 athletes, 14 coaches, and 5 high-performance managers), we captured qualitative and quantitative insights into the perceived benefits and challenges of technology in athlete monitoring. The thematic analysis identified key advantages of technology in athlete monitoring, including objective data support, enhanced engagement, real-time feedback, and increased confidence, while also highlighting concerns around misuse, time demands, and technological complexity. Conflicting views on motivation, comfort, and human oversight further emphasized the challenges in integrating technology effectively. To quantify these insights, we applied the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP), a structured prioritisation approach that is new within sports science, to rank essential technology features. Findings ranked Reliability (1st; 18.73%) and Validity (2nd; 18.42%) as top priorities, with Interpretability (3rd; 9.95%), Responsiveness (4th; 9.02%), and Complexity (5th; 8.08%) also valued. Key training priorities included monitoring Technique (1st; 15.94%), Performance (2nd; 15.24%), and Benchmarking (3rd; 11.90%). The thematic analysis highlights the importance of balanced use of technology. In a complementary approach, the AHP provides a structured method for assessing stakeholder priorities, enhancing decision-making and helping align technology development with practitioner needs. By introducing a framework that bridges communication between engineers, scientists, and practitioners, this study guides the development of user-centred sports technologies that effectively address real-world challenges in high-performance organisations.		[Aerts, Jean-Marie; Masci, Federica; Gielen, Jasper] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Biosyst, Res Grp M3 BIORES, Leuven, Belgium; [Moons, Karen] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Leuvens Inst Gezondheidszorgbeleid, Leuven, Belgium; [Meeusen, Romain] Vrije Univ Brussel, Human Physiol & Sports Physiotherapy Res Grp, Brussels, Belgium; [Meeusen, Romain] Univ Western Cape, Fac Community & Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Recreat Exercise & Sci SRES, Cape Town, South Africa; [Gielen, Jasper] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Biosyst, Res Grp M3 BIORES, Leuven, Belgium								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001408703000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Anastasiou, Alex; Jones, Thomas; Mullan, Paul; Ross, Emma; Howatson, Glyn								The cardiovascular response to international Olympic class windsurfing competition								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			748	757		10.1177/17479541251314256			APR 2025	2025	This study aimed to quantify the cardiovascular demands of the two predominant techniques within international Olympic windsurf competition. Three male (23 +/- 3 y, 73.0 +/- 1.4 kg, 181.3 +/- 5.3 cm) and 3 female (26 +/- 9, 60.1 +/- 1.7 kg, 169.8 +/- 3.2 cm) elite windsurfers competing at two international regattas were recruited. Windsurfers wore a heart rate (HR) monitor, whilst global positioning system data was gathered from an online website (SAP (R) Analytics). Races were categorised as either pumping or planing. Both average (88 +/- 3 vs. 83 +/- 4%) and peak (95 +/- 2 vs. 91 +/- 4%) HR was higher (P < 0.001) in pumping. Furthermore, the time spent in zone 5 was greater (44 +/- 27 vs. 9 +/- 11%, P < 0.001) in pumping. Furthermore, planing covered more distance (+ 4875 m, P < 0.001) at greater speeds (+ 9.3 knots, P < 0.001). Whilst pumping resulted in longer race times (+ 07:56 mm:ss, P < 0.001). These findings support the optimisation of training prescription and development of performance testing for Olympic windsurfers. Furthermore, the study design has demonstrated a practical approach to understanding the cardiovascular demands across different Olympic sailing classes.		[Anastasiou, Alex; Jones, Thomas; Howatson, Glyn] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, England; [Mullan, Paul] British Sailing Team, Performance Unit, Weymouth, England; [Mullan, Paul] British Sailing Team, Performance Unit, Portland, England; [Ross, Emma] English Inst Sport, Manchester, England; [Howatson, Glyn] Northwest Univ, Water Res Grp, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Anastasiou, Alex] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001408350800001	38	Article; Article		
J	Perondi, Darlan; Galatti, Larissa Rafaela; Detanico, Daniele; Mesquita, Paulo Henrique Caldeira; Franchini, Emerson; Albuquerque, Maicon Rodrigues								The learning situations and factors related to the development of expert Brazilian Judo coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	4			1433	1445		10.1177/17479541251314961			AUG 2025	2025	The coach plays a fundamental role in high-performance sports, particularly in relation to the development of athletes and the achievement of successful outcomes. Brazil holds significant relevance in international judo, considering the results obtained in international competitions and the Olympic Games. Understanding the development of expert coaches can contribute to the development of new coaches. The present study aimed to investigate the development of expert Brazilian judo coaches. A qualitative, retrospective case study was conducted using a semi-structured interview research design. Seven expert Brazilian judo coaches were interviewed for this study. The results revealed that several factors are related to the development of expert coaches, such as personal characteristics, formal learning situations, nonformal learning situations, informal learning situations, and support from family and friends. Among the findings, informal learning situations stand out, characterized by the highest number of learning instances, alongside the proficiency in English, and the importance of family and friends. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that the development of expert Brazilian judo coaches is a complex process involving the combination of various interrelated factors.		[Perondi, Darlan; Albuquerque, Maicon Rodrigues] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Dept Sports, Combat Sports Lab, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Galatti, Larissa Rafaela] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Appl Sci, CEPECE, Campinas, Brazil; [Detanico, Daniele] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Mesquita, Paulo Henrique Caldeira] Oklahoma Med Res Fdn, Aging & Metab Res Program, Oklahoma City, OK USA; [Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sport Dept, Martial Arts & Combat Sports Res Grp, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Perondi, Darlan] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Terapia Ocupac, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001408348900001	55	Article; Article		
J	Bibby, K.; Kenny, I. C.; Cahalan, R.; Guilfoyle, L.; Comyns, T. M.								Breast health knowledge and awareness among stakeholders in women's rugby								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			529	539		10.1177/17479541251314186			APR 2025	2025	This study interviewed stakeholders involved with women's Rugby in Ireland consisting of male and female coaches (n = 5), physiotherapists (n = 3), strength and conditioning coaches (n = 3) and female players (n = 3) on their knowledge and awareness of breast health issues. The findings indicate overall limited breast health knowledge and awareness amongst interviewees. Breast health issues can have potential future health complications such as fat necrosis or tissue scaring. The primary barrier to reporting breast health issues ascertained was due to the sensitive nature of the topic. The results further highlighted a lack of reporting pathways and treatment options for breast health problems among support staff overall. Additionally, this study indicates that current breast protective measures were not evidence-based, requiring further research. The findings underscored the need for targeted education, preferably by a female educator, on breast health issues for female players, coaches, and support staff, and tailored to stakeholder preferences to improve efficacy.		[Bibby, K.; Kenny, I. C.; Guilfoyle, L.; Comyns, T. M.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Bibby, K.; Kenny, I. C.; Guilfoyle, L.; Comyns, T. M.] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Bibby, K.; Kenny, I. C.; Cahalan, R.; Guilfoyle, L.; Comyns, T. M.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Kenny, I. C.] Univ Limerick, Sci Fdn Ireland Res Ctr Software, Lero, Limerick, Ireland; [Cahalan, R.] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Cahalan, R.] Univ Limerick, Phys Act Hlth Res Cluster, Limerick, Ireland; [Bibby, K.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Bibby, K.] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Bibby, K.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001408334100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Dunn, Stephanie G. Schartel; Nisbett, Gwendelyn S.								College NIL athletes as social media influencers: examining sports vs lifestyle posts on consumer perceptions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			587	598		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2024-0194			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposeInfluencer marketing is a significant element in modern marketing. Both influencer marketing and college athletics are billion-dollar industries. As the two collide in the wake of college name, image or likeness (NIL) regulations, allowing for NIL athletes to monetize themselves and their personal brands, it is important to evaluate the implications of NIL influencers. This paper specifically examines whether sports-themed posts differ from lifestyle posts in terms of consumer perceptions.Design/methodology/approachExperimental design was used to explore the impact that NIL influencer source attributes have on audiences' consumer attitudes. Participants (N = 222) viewed Instagram posts of four of the top NIL-earning athletes (two men and two women athletes) from 2023. Perceptions of the posts were examined under two collapsed conditions: sports-themed posts focusing on athletic pursuits and lifestyle posts that focused on lifestyle. Participants answered questions concerning credibility, wishful identification, homophily and behavioral intention.FindingsSports-themed content was regarded as more credible and linked to greater behavioral intentions, including intent to engage on social media and intent to purchase an endorsed product when compared with more traditional lifestyle posts. Both homophily and wishful identification play an important mediating role in the processing of influencer content.Originality/valueGiven the recency of NIL regulations, this research focuses on the underexplored topic of college athletes as endorsers. Understanding the type of posts that elicit greater behavioral intentions has marketing implications for a wide variety of organizations interested in partnership opportunities with NIL athletes.		[Dunn, Stephanie G. Schartel] Winona State Univ, Winona, MN 55987 USA; [Nisbett, Gwendelyn S.] Univ North Texas, Mayborn Sch Journalism, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Dunn, Stephanie G. Schartel] Winona State Univ, Winona, MN 55987 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001405001200001	46	Article; Article		
J	Cresswell, Tom; Barden, Craig								Injury epidemiology in international basketball: a six-season study of the Great Britain men's basketball team								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	4			291	298		10.1080/00913847.2025.2457164			JUL 4 2025	2025	ObjectivesTo report the injury epidemiology of the Great Britain's (GB) men's basketball team games and training over a 6-season period.MethodsNon-time loss (NTL) and time-loss (TL) injuries were recorded throughout 14 international windows (2018-2024). Exposure (player-hours) was recorded for team training and games. NTL and TL injury incidence is presented per 1000 player-hours (p/1000 h; 95% CI) for training, games and overall exposure. TL severity (days-lost) and burden (days-lost/1000 h; 95% CI) was calculated, with incidence rate ratios (IRR, 95% CI) comparing game and training incidence for each definition.ResultsThroughout the study period, 113 injuries were recorded, of which 65 were GB related (43 NTL and 22 TL). Game injury incidence was significantly greater than training for TL (96/1000 h; 95% CI 33-159 versus 6/1000 h; 95% CI 2-9; IRR = 17; 95% CI 7-44) and NTL (75/1000 h; 95% CI 10-131 versus 7/1000 h; 95% CI 3-11; IRR = 11; 95% CI 4-28) injury definitions. Overall, most TL injuries occurred at the ankle (36%, 5/1000 h; 95% CI 2-9) and NTL injuries at the knee (19%, 5/1000 h; 95% CI 2-9). 31 overuse injuries were recorded, with 25% lower limb tendinopathies. TL injury severity ranged from 1 to 30 days, with injury burden for games (675/1000 h; 95% CI 234-1116) greater than training (48/1000 h; 95% CI 55-133).ConclusionThe reported game injury incidence is high, with a large prevalence of NTL injuries. Lower limb injuries were most common, particularly overuse knee injuries. Preventative strategies need to be specific in the international basketball context, where camps are short but intense in duration.		[Cresswell, Tom] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Hlth & Social Care, Gloucester, England; [Cresswell, Tom] Great Britain Basketball, Sports Sci & Med Dept, Manchester, England; [Barden, Craig] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Educ & Sci, Gloucester, England; [Barden, Craig] Univ Gloucestershire, Oxstalls Campus,Oxstalls Lane, Gloucester GL2 9HW, England								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001405185400001	43	Article; Article		
J	Palermi, Stefano; Brugin, Erica; Schiavon, Maurizio; Tulipano Di Franco, Francesco; Sartori, Paolo; Baioccato, Veronica; Vecchiato, Marco								Sport-related pneumomediastinum in a synchronized swimmer: from diagnosis to return to play								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	2			185	188		10.1080/00913847.2025.2457313			MAR 4 2025	2025			[Palermi, Stefano] Unicamillus St Camillus Int Univ Hlth Sci, Dept Med & Surg, Via St Alessandro 8, I-00187 Rome, Italy; [Brugin, Erica] ULSS 3 Serenissima, Noale Hosp, Cardiovasc Rehabil & Sports Med Serv, Noale, Italy; [Schiavon, Maurizio] AULSS6 EUGANEA, Padova Hosp, Sports Med Unit, Padua, Italy; [Tulipano Di Franco, Francesco; Sartori, Paolo] ULSS 3 Serenissima, Osped Civile SS Giovanni & Paolo, Dept Radiol, Venice, Italy; [Baioccato, Veronica; Vecchiato, Marco] Univ Padua, Dept Med, Sports & Exercise Med Div, Padua, Italy; [Palermi, Stefano] Unicamillus St Camillus Int Univ Hlth Sci, Dept Med & Surg, Via St Alessandro 8, I-00187 Rome, Italy								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001406000100001	25	Article; Article		
J	Marques Filho, Cesar Vieira; Galatti, Larissa Rafaela; Galdino, Matheus; Cruz, Rafael dos Santos; Montagner, Paulo Cesar								Made in Brazil: Futsal coaching education at a large-scale perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			927	933		10.1177/17479541241311833			JUN 2025	2025	Coaching education programs can be perceived as a fundamental cornerstone to certify and further develop sports coaches across domestic and continental territories. Particularly in Brazil, futsal coaches have been benefiting from a large-scale perspective that allows the sport to keep evolving nationwide. To better understand its educational structure and benefits, this study explored a futsal coaching education program that provides state-level certification in the Brazilian territory. Our mixed-methods research design included a qualitative analysis of official documents, a questionnaire collecting data from 67 futsal coaches, semi-structured interviews with the program's coordinator, five coach developers and five coaches, in addition to a participant's observation performed by the lead researcher. Our findings highlight five themes: (1) program's definition, (2) educational model, (3) program's identity and coaching awareness, (4) pedagogical approach, as well as (5) evaluation and impact. More intriguingly, however, this Brazilian futsal coach education program revealed low levels of interaction and practical reflection among its participants, while futsal coaches also reported a lack of feedback on most of the activities they performed. Overall, the present study suggests a switch from the program's traditional assessment into a rather procedural and contextualized evaluation to enhance learning and development in futsal coaching practice.		[Marques Filho, Cesar Vieira] Fluminense Fed Univ, Niteroi, Brazil; [Marques Filho, Cesar Vieira; Cruz, Rafael dos Santos] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil; [Galatti, Larissa Rafaela; Montagner, Paulo Cesar] Univ Estadual Campinas, Campinas, Brazil; [Galdino, Matheus] Bielefeld Univ, Bielefeld, Germany; [Marques Filho, Cesar Vieira] Fluminense Fed Univ, Niteroi, Brazil; [Marques Filho, Cesar Vieira] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001404122000001	35	Article; Article		
J	Butler, Lauren; Erdman, Ashley; Greenberg, Elliot; Janosky, Joseph; Bailey, Matthew; Martinez, Alexa; Myer, Gregory D.; Ulman, Sophia								The influence of patient gender on exercise prescription in ACL reconstruction rehabilitation								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				25	31		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.01.001			MAR 2025	2025	Objective: To assess differences in physical therapists' exercise prescription and confidence in return-to-sport readiness between girl and boy patients undergoing rehabilitation post-ACLR. Design: Cross-sectional survey. Methods: 115 physical therapist responses were collected in an electronic survey. Demographics were captured and therapists were asked to assess the appropriateness of exercises and intensity of prescription for case vignettes of an adolescent boy and girl at four different phases of post-ACLR rehabilitation. Wilcoxon signed-rank tests were performed for paired comparisons among physical therapists' responses to the boy and girl vignettes. Results: Physical therapists' exercise prescription and confidence in return-to-sport readiness differed for the boy and girl vignettes post-ACLR, specifically during the return-to-sport phase. When exercise was performed with perceived ideal form, physical therapists indicated it was more appropriate to maintain or progress the exercise for girls and had more confidence in girls' ability to return-to-sport. When the exercise was performed with perceived poor form, physical therapists indicated it was more appropriate to maintain or progress the exercise for boys and had more confidence in boys' ability to return-to-sport. Conclusion: A patient's gender may influence exercise prescription and return-to-sport expectations of physical therapists, which may contribute to disparities in patient outcomes between genders post-ACLR.		[Butler, Lauren] Florida Int Univ, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Butler, Lauren; Bailey, Matthew; Martinez, Alexa] Nicklaus Childrens Hosp, Coral Terrace, FL USA; [Erdman, Ashley; Ulman, Sophia] Scottish Rite Children, Dallas, TX USA; [Greenberg, Elliot] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Janosky, Joseph] Lasell Univ, Newton, MA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Sports Performance & Res Ctr SPARC, Flowery Branch, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Sch Med, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Georgia Inst Technol, Wallace H Coulter Dept Biomed Engn, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Emory Univ, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales; [Butler, Lauren] Florida Int Univ, Miami, FL 33199 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001408558800001	56	Article; Article		
J	Raya-Gonzalez, Javier; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas; Lobo-Trivino, David; Jimenez-Rubio, Sergio; Guimaraes, Rodrigo dos Santos; Rubio-Morales, Ana								A session-by-session analysis of psychological and external workload demands prior to muscle-tendon injuries in Brazilian professional soccer players: a pilot study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	4			275	281		10.1080/00913847.2025.2452153			JUL 4 2025	2025	ObjectivesThis study aimed to compare the psychological demands and external workload experienced in the seven sessions leading up to injuries and the demands in the month preceding the injury week among professional Brazilian soccer players. MethodsInitially, 33 players participated, but only 15 were included in the analysis due to the occurrence of 23 muscle-tendon injuries recorded according to International Olympic Committee (IOC) guidelines. The study assessed muscle-tendon injuries, rate of perceived exertion (RPE), and psychological variables (i.e. mental load, motivation, and mental fatigue) using specific questionnaires, while weekly accumulated workload (i.e. total distance, high-speed running distance, sprint running distance, number of sprints, and actions accelerating and decelerating) was recorded using Global Position System devices. ResultsThe results indicated that players experienced higher external loads, particularly in high-intensity running variables, along with increased mental load and mental fatigue during the match prior to injury occurrence (p < 0.05). ConclusionThese findings highlight the significance of carefully monitoring both external and psychological demands during competition, which is essential for developing effective recovery strategies and modulate the subsequent microcycle training loads in order to reduce the risk of suffer a muscle-tendon injury.		[Raya-Gonzalez, Javier] Univ Cordoba, Res Grp Sport & Phys Educ Personal & Social Dev GI, Fac Educ Sci & Psychol, Dept Specif Didact, Cordoba, Spain; [Garcia-Calvo, Tomas; Lobo-Trivino, David; Guimaraes, Rodrigo dos Santos; Rubio-Morales, Ana] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Jimenez-Rubio, Sergio] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Sport Sci Res Ctr, Fuenlabrada, Spain; [Lobo-Trivino, David] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001401773700001	48	Article; Article		
J	Knihs, Debora A.; Bishop, Chris; Athayde, Marina S. da S.; Gomes, Everton W.; Dal Pupo, Juliano								Are dry-land measurements and their asymmetries related to swimming performance?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2292	2309		10.1080/14763141.2025.2453555			AUG 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to verify the correlations between variables obtained from dry-land tests and swimming performance, in addition to examining the associations between the dry-land asymmetries and swimming performance. Thirty-seven male swimmers performed a test battery, including shoulder isokinetic torque, shoulder range of motion (ROM), vertical jump, anthropometric, and in-water force tests. Additionally, the best official performance in the events of 50 and 200 m front crawl was obtained. Interlimb asymmetries were calculated for all tested metrics, and Pearson and Spearman's correlations were used to determine the association between the metrics (and their asymmetries) and swimming performance. Results showed that most of the dry-land metrics were significantly associated with 50 m front crawl (r = -0.59 to -0.83) and 200 m front crawl (r = -0.48 to -0.62) performance and with peak force at tethered swimming (r = 0.54 -0.80), except the ROM test (r = -0.22 -0.33). None of the asymmetries originating from the dry-land tests were significantly correlated with swimming performance (rho = -0.29 -0.34). In conclusion, most dry-land outcomes measured are related to swimming performance, while the dry-land inter-limb asymmetries are not.		[Knihs, Debora A.; Athayde, Marina S. da S.; Gomes, Everton W.; Dal Pupo, Juliano] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Knihs, Debora A.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Deputado Antonio Edu Vieira, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001400489700001	41	Article; Article		
J	Klein, Matthew; Patterson, Chris; Karim, Annette; Cuddeford, Tyler								Hopping kinetic differences in masters runners with and without Achilles tendinopathy								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2268	2278		10.1080/14763141.2025.2451689			AUG 3 2025	2025	Achilles tendinopathy (AT) is the most common running-related pathology among masters runners. Previous evidence suggests there are no differences in submaximal running biomechanics between masters runners with and without AT. Evidence suggests lower extremity power deficits are common among ageing individuals and those with AT. The single-leg horizontal hop (SLHH) test is a valid and reliable lower extremity power test. The purpose of this study was to investigate differences in SLHH biomechanics between masters runners with and without AT. 32 masters runners age 50 and older with AT (60.31 +/- 8.37, n = 16) and without (59.94 +/- 4.95 n = 16) were included. 3D motion capture and force plates were used to assess hopping biomechanics. Masters runners with AT had significantly lower peak ankle plantarflexion positive power peak hip extensor positive power and peak hip extension moments compared to healthy controls. No differences in peak ankle plantarflexion moments and knee kinetics were observed between groups. Masters runners with AT demonstrate altered lower extremity biomechanics during the propulsive phase of the SLHH, suggesting they may not be able to appropriately generate forces and release stored energy from the Achilles tendon during maximal efforts.		[Klein, Matthew; Cuddeford, Tyler] George Fox Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Newberg, OR 97132 USA; [Klein, Matthew; Patterson, Chris; Karim, Annette] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Azusa, CA 91702 USA; [Klein, Matthew; Patterson, Chris; Karim, Annette] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Rehabil & Movement Sci, Azusa, CA 91702 USA; [Klein, Matthew] George Fox Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Newberg, OR 97132 USA; [Klein, Matthew] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Azusa, CA 91702 USA; [Klein, Matthew] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Rehabil & Movement Sci, Azusa, CA 91702 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001399644500001	42	Article; Article		
J	Akdag, Murat; Seibert, Johannes; Rumpf, Michael C.; Lochmann, Matthias								The impact of competition mode and verbal encouragement on physiological, physical, and technical performances in youth football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			1071	1079		10.1177/17479541241311828			JUN 2025	2025	The present study compared the physiological, physical, and technical performances during "FUNino" (3 vs. 3) to that of the standard competition mode (7 vs. 7) under the influence of two coaching feedback situations (verbal encouragement vs. no verbal encouragement). "FUNino" features a 3-a-side game on a small pitch size (20 x 27-meter) with specific scoring rules (scoring within a 6 m goal zone) utilizing four small goals played without goalkeeper. There are also no offsides or throw-ins, however a kick- or dribble in. Sixteen U11 male youth footballers performed eight 10-min games, four in the "FUNino" and four in the standard competition game (7 vs. 7) in accordance to the German national government soccer association (DFB). All games were videotaped and physiological, physical, and technical parameters quantified for each game. A two-factors linear model with repeated measurement (ANOVA) were used to analyze the parameters. There were significant (p < 0.05) higher physiological (+7.10%), physical (+17.3%), and technical (+219%) parameters in the "FUNino" format. There were also significant higher physical (average (+8.88%) and relative (+5.47%) running distance) as well as technical (relative number of ball touches, + 9.69%) parameters in the feedback mode. "FUNino" provided a significant higher number of physiological, physical, and technical demands than the 7 vs. 7 used by the national soccer government association. Additionally, verbal encouragement positively influenced running distance. Competition format had greater influence on physiological, physical, and technical outcome compared to verbal encouragement.		[Akdag, Murat; Seibert, Johannes; Rumpf, Michael C.; Lochmann, Matthias] Friedrich Alexander Univ Erlangen Nurnberg, Dept Sport Sci & Sport, Gebbertstr 123b, D-91058 Erlangen, Germany; [Rumpf, Michael C.] Footballscience net, Dreieich, Germany; [Rumpf, Michael C.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Rumpf, Michael C.] Friedrich Alexander Univ Erlangen Nurnberg, Dept Sport Sci & Sport, Gebbertstr 123b, D-91058 Erlangen, Germany								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001398687600001	26	Article; Article		
J	Fujita, Shinya; Tanaka, So; Tomooka, Yuta; Yamashita, Hirofumi; Mibu, Akira; Tokunaga, Masami; Yoshimoto, Takaaki; Nishigami, Tomohiko								Relationships between single-leg hop for distances of four types at 6 Months after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction and knee joint function, disturbed body perception, and movement-specific fear								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				21	27		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.10.040			JAN 2026	2026	Objectives: To examine the relationship between three types of single-leg hop for distance (SLHD), the triple hop for distance (TPD), and clinical variables at 6 months after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional study. Participants: A total of 114 knees from 114 patients (53 males, 61 females; mean age: 23.6 +/- 9.2 years) who underwent primary unilateral ACLR were assessed at 6 months postoperatively. Main outcome measures: Outcome measures included a four-hop test battery, isokinetic knee strength, pain intensity during movement, disturbed body perception, and intensity of fear during each hop test. Multiple regression analyses were conducted, using the limb symmetry index (LSI) of each hop test as the dependent variable and clinical factors as independent variables. Results: Multiple regression analysis showed that the LSIs of the three SLHD types were independently associated with disturbed body perception, fear during SLHD, and knee extensor strength, respectively. For triple hop for distance (THD), disturbed body perception, fear during SLHD, and knee flexor strength were independently related to performance. Conclusions: These findings highlight the need to integrate not only muscle strengthening but also assessments addressing disturbed body perception and movement-specific fear into rehabilitation programs aimed at facilitating return-to-sport after ACLR.		[Fujita, Shinya; Tanaka, So; Tomooka, Yuta] Fukuoka Orthopaed Hosp, Dept Rehabil, 2-10-50 Yanagouchi, Minami Ward, Fukuoka, Fukuoka 8150063, Japan; [Tanaka, So] Fukuoka Orthopaed Hosp, Dept Clin Res Ctr, 2-10-50 Yanagouchi, Minami Ward, Fukuoka, Fukuoka 8150063, Japan; [Tomooka, Yuta; Yamashita, Hirofumi] Prefectural Univ Hiroshima, Grad Sch Comprehens Sci Res, 1-1 Gakuen Tyou, Mihara, Hiroshima 7230053, Japan; [Yamashita, Hirofumi] SKY Clin, Dept Rehabil, Ibaraki Higashi Hankyu Bldg 1F, 10-1 Futaba Cho, Osaka, Ibaraki 5670829, Japan; [Mibu, Akira] Konan Womens Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Fuculty Nursing & Rehabil, 6-2-23 Morikita Machi, Higashinada Ku, Kobe, Hyogo 6580001, Japan; [Tokunaga, Masami; Yoshimoto, Takaaki] Fukuoka Orthopaed Hosp, Dept Orthoped, 2-10-50 Yanagouchi, Minami Ward, Fukuoka, Fukuoka 8150063, Japan; [Nishigami, Tomohiko] Prefectural Univ Hiroshima, Fac Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, 1-1 Gakuen Tyou, Mihara, Hiroshima 7230053, Japan; [Nishigami, Tomohiko] Prefectural Univ Hiroshima, Fac Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, 1-1 Gakuen Tyou, Mihara, Hiroshima 7230053, Japan								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001622046800001	58	Article; Article		
J	Fukuda, Kengo; Nagamune, Naotaka; Okamura, Kazunori; Ikeda, Tomohiro; Kanai, Shusaku								Immediate effect of a combined neuromuscular electrical stimulation and eccentric load session on acute muscle swelling of the abductor hallucis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				76				147	153		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.10.002			NOV 2025	2025	Objectives: To examine the immediate effects and safety of neuromuscular electrical stimulation combined with eccentric load (NMES + EL) sessions on acute muscle swelling (i.e., transient increase in muscle size) in the abductor hallucis (ABH). Design: Randomized, controlled, single-blind trial. Setting: University laboratory setting. Participants: Forty-five healthy adults were randomly assigned to NMES + EL (n =13), NMES (n = 14), or control (n = 15) groups. Main outcome measures: Cross-sectional area (CSA) and echo intensity of the ABH were measured by ultrasonography before and after a single 15-min intervention. Muscle soreness was assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. Results: The NMES + EL group showed a significant increase in the CSA of the ABH after the intervention (7.89 %, P < 0.01, Cohen's d = 0.95), with no significant increase in echo intensity or adverse events compared with the other groups. Severe muscle soreness or adverse events were not observed. Conclusions: A single NMES + EL session induced acute muscle swelling in the ABH without increasing muscle soreness or adverse effects. This method may be a safe and effective way to strengthen the intrinsic foot muscles.		[Fukuda, Kengo] ReRay Inc, 710-3 Nakanosho Cho,Innoshima, Onomichi, Hiroshima 7222211, Japan; [Nagamune, Naotaka; Ikeda, Tomohiro] Prefectural Univ Hiroshima, Grad Sch Comprehens Sci Res, Mihara, Hiroshima, Japan; [Okamura, Kazunori; Kanai, Shusaku] Prefectural Univ Hiroshima, Fac Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, Mihara, Hiroshima, Japan; [Ikeda, Tomohiro] Okayama Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, Okayama, Japan; [Fukuda, Kengo] ReRay Inc, 710-3 Nakanosho Cho,Innoshima, Onomichi, Hiroshima 7222211, Japan								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001601149000001	26	Article; Article		
J	Lee, J. Lucy; Choi, Si Hoon; Jeong, Suzy; Ko, Namho								Generative AI in sport advertising: effects of source-message (in)congruence, model types and AI awareness								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	4			670	693		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2024-0147			DEC 2 2025	2025	PurposeThe purpose of the study was to investigate the effects of artificial intelligence (A.I.) awareness, advertisement models and source-message incongruence on consumer evaluations of A.I.-generated advertisements. It explores how these factors interact in shaping consumer perceptions and advertising effectiveness.Design/methodology/approachA 2 (source-message (in)congruence: incongruent vs. congruent) x 3 (A.I. awareness: unawareness, pre-advertisement, post-advertisement) x 3 (advertisement model: traditional human, virtual human, digital twin) between-subjects design was employed in this study. Using stratified random sampling, a total of 231 undergraduate students were recruited from course groups and randomly assigned to one of nine experimental treatments, each involving the viewing of a specific A.I.-generated advertisement followed by a survey. Data were analyzed using two-way ANCOVA and regression analyses, controlling for participants' involvement in sports and brand.FindingsThe results indicated that A.I. awareness timing, advertisement model types and source-message incongruence significantly affected consumer evaluations of advertisements. A.I. awareness generally had a positive impact on evaluations, with the most favorable outcomes when awareness of the A.I.-generated nature occurred after viewing the advertisement. Virtual human models were rated the lowest, while digital twin and traditional human models received similarly positive evaluations. Source-message incongruence negatively influenced evaluations. An interaction effect was observed between A.I. awareness timing and advertisement model types under high source-message incongruence, where virtual human models showed the highest effectiveness when A.I. awareness occurred after viewing.Originality/valueGiven that sports are characterized by the transcendence of human limitations and the emphasis on physical and emotional challenges - elements that A.I. cannot replicate - it is essential to examine how sports consumers perceive A.I., which, despite offering efficiency and personalization advantages, contrasts with the fundamentally human nature of athletic performance. This research contributes to the literature on A.I.-generated advertising by uniquely investigating the interaction between A.I. awareness timing and advertisement model types within the context of source-message incongruence. It offers critical insights for practitioners and researchers on strategically timing A.I.-generated ad disclosures and selecting appropriate advertisement models to optimize their effectiveness. By addressing these underexplored variables, the study enhances understanding of consumer perceptions and provides a foundation for more effective A.I. integration in advertising practices.		[Lee, J. Lucy] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Global Sport Management Program, Seoul, South Korea; [Choi, Si Hoon; Jeong, Suzy; Ko, Namho] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, J. Lucy] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Global Sport Management Program, Seoul, South Korea								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001396455500001	99	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Jin-Long								Going green in road races: enhancing runners' green brand loyalty - the roles of green brand positioning, attitude and identification								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			568	586		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2024-0143			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposeThis study develops a theoretical framework to explore the influence of green brand positioning on green brand loyalty, examining the mediating effects of green brand attitude and identification.Design/methodology/approachEmploying an empirical approach, the study administers a questionnaire survey to 546 runners at a road race conducted in New Taipei City, Taiwan. Structural equation modeling is employed to validate the research framework.FindingsThe empirical results demonstrate that green brand positioning directly enhances green brand attitude and identification. High green brand attitude and identification lead to favorable green brand loyalty. Thus, the relationship between green brand loyalty and positioning is mediated by green brand attitude and identification.Practical implicationsTo foster green brand loyalty, road race organizations can undertake efforts to enhance the brand positioning of their events.Originality/valueFew studies have assessed green branding from the perspective of sports participants. This study develops a research framework of green brand loyalty through the lens of runners to address this research gap. The findings show that effective market segmentation strategies are crucial for attracting participants in highly competitive event markets. The findings advance the research field by considering green brand positioning, attitude and identification as factors for improving green brand loyalty.		[Chen, Jin-Long] Natl Taipei Univ, Dept Leisure & Sport Management, New Taipei City, Taiwan; [Chen, Jin-Long] Natl Taipei Univ, Dept Leisure & Sport Management, New Taipei City, Taiwan								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001393366000001	90	Article; Article		
J	Decoux, Brandi E.; Wilburn, Christopher M.; Aldahir, Philipe; Gordon, Megan A.; Weimar, Wendi H.								Inter-segmental coordination variability during hopping and running on natural and synthetic turf surfaces								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2247	2267		10.1080/14763141.2025.2450656			AUG 3 2025	2025	An athlete's performance and musculoskeletal health hinges on their ability to adapt their movements to varying environmental constraints. However, research has yet to offer a thorough understanding of whether coordination variability is altered in response to different synthetic and natural turf surfaces. The purpose of this study was to investigate lower extremity coordination variability during hopping and running on four turf surfaces-three synthetic and one natural. Continuous relative phase (CRP) variability of six segment couplings was computed to examine coordination variability during the braking and propulsion sub-phases of running and hopping. Coordination variability in the sagittal plane pelvis-thigh coupling during the braking sub-phase of hopping was significantly affected by turf surface (chi 2 (3) = 8.365, p = .039), with significantly less CRP variability observed on the firmest of the synthetic surfaces compared to the natural turf (55.3 degrees +/- 16.8 degrees vs. 67.1 degrees +/- 17.2 degrees, p = .032, W = .16). No other significant surface effects were observed. Our findings suggest that lower extremity inter-segmental coordination variability is largely unaffected by different turf surfaces during an acute exposure. However, the reduced variability observed between the pelvis and thigh during hopping may indicate decreased flexibility of the motor system and warrants further attention.		[Decoux, Brandi E.; Wilburn, Christopher M.; Weimar, Wendi H.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Decoux, Brandi E.; Wilburn, Christopher M.; Weimar, Wendi H.] Shaw Ind Grp Inc, Shaw Sports Turf, Dalton, GA 30722 USA; [Decoux, Brandi E.; Aldahir, Philipe; Gordon, Megan A.] Southeastern Louisiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, Hammond, LA 70402 USA; [Aldahir, Philipe] Biocore LLC, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Decoux, Brandi E.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Decoux, Brandi E.] Shaw Ind Grp Inc, Shaw Sports Turf, Dalton, GA 30722 USA; [Decoux, Brandi E.] Southeastern Louisiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, Hammond, LA 70402 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001395497500001	50	Article; Article		
J	James, Megan L.; Stiles, Victoria H.; Wilkau, Hans C. von Lieres Und; Jones, Alex L.; Willy, Richard W.; Ashford, Kelly J.; Moore, Isabel S.								Predictors of pelvic acceleration during treadmill running across various stride frequency conditions								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	2			234	248		10.1080/14763141.2024.2446179			FEB 1 2026	2026	Pelvic running injuries often require extensive rehabilitation and pelvic girdle pain is a barrier to running engagement in population sub-groups, such as perinatal women. However, exploration into how external pelvic loading may be altered during running is limited. This study assessed which biomechanical variables influence changes in external peak pelvic acceleration during treadmill running, across various stride frequency conditions. Twelve participants (7 female, 5 male) ran (9 km center dot h-1) at their preferred stride frequency, and at +/- 5% and +/- 10% of their preferred stride frequency. Coordinate and acceleration data were collected using a motion capture system and inertial measurement units. Linear mixed models assessed peak tibial acceleration, displacement from hip to knee and ankle, contact time, and stride frequency as predictors of peak pelvic acceleration. Stride frequency and contact time interacted to predict peak vertical (p = .006) and resultant (p = .009) pelvic acceleration. When modelled, short contact times and low stride frequencies produced higher peak vertical (p = .007) and resultant (p = .016) pelvic accelerations than short contact times and average, or high stride frequencies. Increasing contact time, or increasing stride frequency at shorter contact times, may therefore be useful in reducing pelvic acceleration during treadmill running.		[James, Megan L.; Wilkau, Hans C. von Lieres Und; Moore, Isabel S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Stiles, Victoria H.] Univ Exeter, Dept Publ Hlth & Sport Sci, Exeter, England; [Wilkau, Hans C. von Lieres Und] Red Bull Athlete Performance Ctr, Thalgau, Austria; [Jones, Alex L.] Swansea Univ, Dept Psychol, Swansea, Wales; [Willy, Richard W.] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Missoula, MT USA; [Ashford, Kelly J.] Univ British Columbia, Okanagan Campus, Kelowna, BC, Canada; [James, Megan L.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001400523200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Cadavid, Andrea; Hamrick, Sydney; Terrell, Kassie R.; Hamadi, Hanadi Y.; Zeglin, Robert J.								Exploring weight bias, fatphobia, and diversity training among collegiate athletic coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			917	926		10.1177/17479541241313052			JUN 2025	2025	Many fields have called for a shift from a weight-normative to a weight-inclusive approach. However, there is still a paucity of research investigating such a shift within college athletic coaching. This quantitative study investigated weight bias, fatphobia, and diversity training among collegiate athletic coaches (n = 68). A cross-sectional survey design using random convenience sampling was used and findings revealed the prevalence of weight bias and fatphobia among coaches, with many endorsing harmful weight normative beliefs that can exacerbate negative mental health outcomes, such as disordered eating, among student athletes. The results also indicated a significant lack of diversity training related to size and body composition, highlighting a crucial gap in coaches' preparation to foster a weight-inclusive environment that supports athletes' mental and physical well-being. This research is a call for athletic departments to adopt weight-inclusive coaching practices, ensuring that athletes of all sizes can thrive in a supportive environment. Recommendations and resources for inclusive coaching practices are also provided.		[Cadavid, Andrea; Terrell, Kassie R.; Zeglin, Robert J.] Univ North Florida, Brooks Coll Hlth, Publ Hlth, Jacksonville, FL 32224 USA; [Hamrick, Sydney] Univ North Florida, Coll Educ & Human Serv, Educ Leadership, Jacksonville, FL USA; [Hamadi, Hanadi Y.] Univ North Florida, Brooks Coll Hlth, Hlth Adm, Jacksonville, FL USA; [Terrell, Kassie R.] Univ North Florida, Brooks Coll Hlth, Publ Hlth, Jacksonville, FL 32224 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001395837500001	38	Article; Article		
J	Monsees, Leah M.								"There is a lot more potential" - practitioner perspectives on technology and data-driven talent identification, selection, and development in a German Bundesliga academy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			628	638		10.1177/17479541241308519			APR 2025	2025	This case study explored the perceptions and utilisation of data-driven methods of coaches, scouts, and a sporting manager overseeing the U8-U14 unit of a German Bundesliga academy. It comprised seven semi-structured interviews and employed thematic analysis to unravel the complexities of talent identification, selection and development (TISD). The findings provide highly contextual insights into practices and perceptions of key stakeholders within the context of academy football. Technology and data-driven methods were restricted to anthropometric measurements and automated video evaluations. Nonetheless, informants recognised the potential of data-driven methods, such as AI, to enhance TISD practices and decision-making. Financial constraints did not pose a barrier, however, challenges, such as limited expertise and insufficient time for data interpretation, hindered the wider adoption of data-driven strategies and technologies. It is suggested that training staff in data interpretation and investing in skilled personnel could improve the effective use of new technologies and enhance player development. Legal regulations, such as the General Data Protection Regulations, were perceived as potential hurdles to adopt innovative methods. Moreover, demographic dynamics, particularly younger staff, are believed to positively influence technological adoption. The need for further research to explore how organisational dynamics and data protection laws impact the adoption and effectiveness of data-driven methods in football academies was suggested.		[Monsees, Leah M.] Malmo Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Malmo, Sweden; [Monsees, Leah M.] Malmo Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Malmo, Sweden								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001395385700001	55	Article; Article		
J	Barrett, Luke; Kinnerk, Paul; Kearney, Philip E.								Developing skill within the context of a Game-Based Approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			960	972		10.1177/17479541241311673			JUN 2025	2025	Limited research has examined continued skill development in adult high-performance sport. In addition, while game-based approaches emphasise the concurrent development of technical excellence and tactical nous, there is a lack of clarity in relation to how coaches develop skill within a games-based approach. As such, this paper explored coaches' understanding of skill and their approaches to the development of skill within high-performance cohorts through a game-based approach. Individual, semi-structured interviews were conducted with eight coaches with experience coaching at the highest level of Gaelic football; these coaches self-identified as adhering to a game-based approach, albeit not to a particular framework. Reflexive thematic analysis was applied to the resulting transcripts. The analysis identified two key challenges coaches faced in relation to skill development through a game-based approach: competing priorities for coaches in relation to team preparation within training sessions, compounded by competing priorities for players in terms of athletic development outside of training sessions. Despite these competing priorities, the coaches endorsed skill development as an important function of the high-performance coach and reported a sophisticated definition of skill. The coaches described a variety of activities which were used to support players' development of skill, consistent with their espoused games-based approach to coaching. However, more sophisticated game design, better integration of unopposed activities and games, developing player self-regulatory skills and enhanced coherence between coaches appear to be ways in which skill development could be enhanced to address the challenges coaches identified and maximise the benefits of employing a game-based approach.		[Barrett, Luke] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Kinnerk, Paul; Kearney, Philip E.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Kearney, Philip E.] Movement & Skill Acquisit Ireland, Cork, Ireland; [Kearney, Philip E.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001395391200001	81	Article; Article		
J	Braun, Landon M.; Wahl, Carly A.; Meyer, Barbara B.								Psychometric properties of the Recovery Experience Questionnaire in a coaching population								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	3			910	916		10.1177/17479541241311365			JUN 2025	2025	Recognized as the process of psychophysiological unwinding from the demands of work and other stressors, occupational recovery has been a popular topic of study over the past decade. Building on the recovery research in occupational workers and more recently athletes, sport and performance psychology scholars have begun to consider the occupational recovery of the team around the team (i.e., athletic trainers and sport psychology professionals). Like the aforementioned professionals, coaches may be able to use recovery to buffer work-related stressors which can impact their health, work performance, and career longevity. That said, there is a dearth of research on coach recovery, perhaps due to a lack of appropriate measures to study occupational recovery in this specific population. The purpose of the current study, therefore, was to validate the Recovery Experience Questionnaire (REQ) in a coaching population. A sample of 237 collegiate and professional coaches (148 males, 89 females) were recruited from various sports, competitive levels, and roles. In addition to assessing two forms of reliability, a confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was conducted to evaluate the four latent variable measurement model of the REQ. Furthermore, correlational analyses were used to demonstrate discriminant validity between the REQ and a measure of perceived stress. Collectively, the results suggest that the REQ possesses strong psychometric properties and is a measure worthy of further exploration and use in an elite coaching population.		[Braun, Landon M.; Meyer, Barbara B.] Univ Wisconsin Milwaukee, Coll Hlth Profess & Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53211 USA; [Wahl, Carly A.] Eastern Illinois Univ, Dept Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Charleston, IL USA; [Braun, Landon M.] Univ Wisconsin Milwaukee, Coll Hlth Profess & Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53211 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001395393500001	74	Article; Article		
J	Guo, Tianxiao; Ley, Christophe; Cui, Yixiong; Shen, Yanfei; Zhang, Chengyi; Mi, Jing								Quantifying player versatility through lineup-based playing styles in elite basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			688	697		10.1177/17479541241312390			APR 2025	2025	Understanding and quantifying playing styles across different lineups is crucial for evaluating player roles, optimizing lineup combinations, and recruiting suitable athletes. This study proposes a comprehensive framework to capture player versatility, defined as the range of playing styles exhibited across various lineups in elite basketball. We collected data from 11,978 games spanning 10 NBA regular seasons and extracted lineup-based player statistics and applied Non-negative Matrix Factorization to reduce dimensionality, identifying 6 performance bases that represent playing styles in specific lineups. A two-step clustering algorithm based on cosine distance was then used to group typical performance patterns and quantify each player's versatility. To compare versatility between players, we employed the Wasserstein distance, providing an interpretable alignment of playing styles. This framework offers basketball practitioners a powerful tool to assess player performance across lineups, supporting informed decisions in lineup optimization, player development and recruitment in basketball and other team sports.		[Guo, Tianxiao; Mi, Jing] Beijing Sport Univ, Key Lab Sport Training Gen Adm Sport China, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Ley, Christophe] Univ Luxembourg, Dept Math, Esch sur Alzette, Luxembourg; [Cui, Yixiong; Shen, Yanfei] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Engn, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Chengyi] Beijing Sport Univ, China Basketball Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Mi, Jing] Beijing Sport Univ, Key Lab Sport Training Gen Adm Sport China, Beijing, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001395388000001	22	Article; Article		
J	Gomez-Ruano, Miguel-angel; Saiz, Sergio Jimenez; Filho, Edson; Lago-Penas, Carlos; Cui, Yixiong								Which factors define success during the basketball overtimes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			707	713		10.1177/17479541241311531			APR 2025	2025	This study investigates how scoring before overtime and various contextual factors influence outcomes during overtime in three professional basketball leagues. We collected data from the National Basketball Association (NBA), Euroleague, and Spanish Professional League (ACB), consisting of n = 275, n = 37, and n = 59 games, respectively, and played in the seasons 2019-2022. Our analysis included variables such as the team that tied the score, game location, opponent strength, maximum point difference during the game, and the last five minutes of regulation play. Binomial logistic regression revealed that the team scoring the tying basket did not significantly affect overtime outcomes in any league. Notably, in the ACB league, game location and maximum point difference during the game were significant predictors, while in the Euroleague, keeping the game tight was crucial. In contrast, in the NBA, game location and opponent strength were pivotal. Our analysis of predictive accuracy showed differing results across leagues, with the ACB league exhibiting the highest accuracy. These differential results between leagues underscore the importance of tailoring coaching strategies to specific league dynamics, enabling teams to better prepare for the critical moments leading to overtime based on the influence of each contextual factor.		[Gomez-Ruano, Miguel-angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte, Madrid, Spain; [Saiz, Sergio Jimenez] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte, Madrid, Spain; [Filho, Edson] Boston Univ, Wheelock Coll Educ & Human Dev, Boston, MA USA; [Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Ciencias Educ & Deporte, Vigo, Spain; [Cui, Yixiong] Beijing Sport Univ, China Sports Big Data Ctr, Sch Sports Engn, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Cui, Yixiong] Beijing Sport Univ, China Sports Big Data Ctr, Sch Sports Engn, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001395391900001	28	Article; Article		
J	Swords, Thomas; Mcclelland, Jodie; Middleton, Kane; Tessarin, Bruna; Bryce, Shaun; Mayes, Susan; Rio, Ebonie								Bringing biomechanics to ballet: a feasibility study using wearable technology during grand allegro								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3323	3333		10.1080/14763141.2024.2446181			DEC 1 2024	2024	Quantifying impact accelerations during ballet class may assist load management. The largest impact accelerations occur during the sequence of large (single or double-leg) jumps (grand allegro) but are potentially the most challenging class component for utilising wearable technology, and feasibility is unknown. This pilot study utilised wearable technology during class to (1) explore feasibility and acceptability, (2) quantify impact accelerations during the entire sequence of jumps during grand allegro and (3) compare impact accelerations between limbs (preferred and non-preferred landing limb). Twelve pre-professional ballet dancers (18 +/- 0.71 years old, eight females) wore inertial measurement units on each leg during class and reported acceptability. Total impact accelerations and percentage differences between limb loading during allegro were calculated. Most dancers (n = 11) reported wearable technology was feasible/acceptable during class. There were no significant differences between impact accelerations of preferred and non-preferred limb (p = 0.72) nor between limb comparison (p = 0.18). Most dancers were symmetrical (90% to 110%) in limb loading (N = 8). Wearable technology was considered acceptable during ballet class, opening future exploration of the whole class, different classes and rehearsals, as well as potential use for returning dancers back from injury.		[Swords, Thomas; Mcclelland, Jodie; Middleton, Kane] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Swords, Thomas; Tessarin, Bruna; Bryce, Shaun; Mayes, Susan; Rio, Ebonie] Australian Ballet, Artist Hlth Dept, Southbank, Vic, Australia; [Mcclelland, Jodie] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Australia; [Mayes, Susan; Rio, Ebonie] La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Physiotherapy Dept, Melbourne, Australia; [Rio, Ebonie] Victorian Inst Sport, Physiotherapy Dept, Melbourne, Australia; [Swords, Thomas] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Swords, Thomas] Australian Ballet, Artist Hlth Dept, Southbank, Vic, Australia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001395846200001	27	Article; Article		
J	Price, Hayden; Bae, Sonu; Alain, Gabriel; Schmitt, Laura; Barker, Tyler								Prognostic indicators of lower extremity functional recovery after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				70	78		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.11.006			JAN 2026	2026	Objective: To create a predictive model of early post-operative function after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) using demographic and surgical prognostic indicators. Design: Retrospective cohort study. Setting: Outpatient academic hospital. Participants: 962 adult patients with ACLR. Main outcome measure: The longitudinal trajectory of Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS) scores over the first 26 weeks post-ACLR was modeled using a negative exponential function with three parameters: an initial functional status immediately after ACLR (pseudo-intercept), a recovery rate constant, and a recovery plateau (asymptote). Associations of demographic (age, sex, body mass index [BMI]) and surgical factors (graft type, concomitant surgical procedures) with each of the parameters were evaluated. A multivariate model was created from significant prognostic indicators identified. Results: Lower initial function was associated with quadriceps tendon autografts and concomitant procedures. Female sex, quadriceps tendon autografts, and concomitant procedures were associated with slower recovery rates. Older age and higher BMI were associated with lower recovery plateaus. Inclusion of demographic and surgical predictors improved model performance compared to time post-ACLR alone. Conclusions: Demographic and surgical factors are prognostic of early post-operative function after ACLR, and a predictive model for postoperative LEFS scores created using these factors may provide insights useful for rehabilitation planning.		[Price, Hayden; Bae, Sonu; Schmitt, Laura; Barker, Tyler] Ohio State Univ, Sports Med Res Inst, Wexner Med Ctr, Columbus, OH USA; [Alain, Gabriel; Schmitt, Laura] Ohio State Univ, Coll Med, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Columbus, OH USA; [Barker, Tyler] Ohio State Univ, Jameson Crane Sports Med Inst, Wexner Med Ctr, 2835 Fred Taylor Dr,Ste 2209, Columbus, OH 43202 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001640788500001	30	Article; Article		
J	Akaras, Esedullah; Aktas, Buket Sevindik; Cankaya, Bahar Yilmaz; Oztop, Bilgehan; Abbasguliyev, Hasan; Kishali, Necip Fazil; Yagiz, Gokhan								Diagnostic value of the lower leg muscle stiffness in professional skiers with medial tibial stress syndrome: A retrospective shear wave elastography study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				77				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.11.001			JAN 2026	2026	Objectives: This study aims to assess the diagnostic value of tibialis anterior (TA) and gastrocnemius muscle elasticity using shear wave elastography (SWE) in professional skiers diagnosed with medial tibial stress syndrome (MTSS). Methods: A retrospective case-control study involved 16 professional male skiers diagnosed with medial tibial stress syndrome (MTSS) and 20 healthy skiers. Shear wave elastography (SWE) assessed the stiffness of the TA and gastrocnemius muscles bilaterally. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis and logistic regression evaluated the diagnostic utility. Reliability was appraised using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC). Results: Affected side TA stiffness was significantly higher in the MTSS group (p = 0.019, Cohen's d = 0.87). The ROC analysis revealed that TA stiffness is the most effective indicator for diagnosing MTSS (AUC = 0.72), followed by the gastrocnemius medialis at 0.60 and lateralis at 0.54. Compared to TA elasticity (AUC = 0.72), the gastrocnemius muscles do not significantly serve as biomarkers for MTSS diagnosis. Logistic regression confirmed affected side TA stiffness as a significant predictor for MTSS (p = 0.033, OR = 1.12). Conclusion: SWE-derived TA stiffness demonstrated preliminary discriminative ability for MTSS in elite skiers. SWE can improve objective musculoskeletal assessment and injury screening.		[Akaras, Esedullah] Erzurum Tech Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Aktas, Buket Sevindik] Erzurum Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Cankaya, Bahar Yilmaz; Abbasguliyev, Hasan] Ataturk Univ, Fac Med, Dept Radiol, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Oztop, Bilgehan] Fac Med, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Kishali, Necip Fazil] Ataturk Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Yagiz, Gokhan] Amasya Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Amasya, Turkiye; [Yagiz, Gokhan] Tokyo Metropolitan Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Tokyo, Japan; [Akaras, Esedullah] Erzurum Tech Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Erzurum, Turkiye								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001618033100001	44	Article; Article		
J	Washino, Sohei; Murai, Akihiko; Kadi, Tomoya; Mankyu, Hirotoshi; Yoshitake, Yasuhide								Stroke phase differences in the linear relationship between swimming velocity and vertical body position during front crawl								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2219	2232		10.1080/14763141.2024.2446180			AUG 3 2025	2025	We aimed to investigate whether a linear relationship exists between swimming velocity and vertical body position for each stroke phase in front crawl, and to determine whether there are differences in the velocity effect among the stroke phases. Eleven male swimmers performed a 15 m front crawl at various swimming velocities. The whole-body centre of mass (CoM) was estimated from individual digital human models using inverse kinematics. The horizontal CoM velocity and vertical CoM position from the water surface were calculated for one stroke cycle and divided into five stroke phases: entry, pull, push, release, and recovery. Linear mixed-effects model analysis revealed a positive trend between the mean swimming velocity and the mean vertical CoM position for each stroke phase (p < 0.001 for all phases). The interaction term between stroke phase and swimming velocity was significant (p < 0.001), and the slopes of the propulsive phases (pull and push) were larger than those of the non-propulsive phases (entry, release, and recovery) (p < 0.001). These findings provide practical implications that vertical body position can be evaluated independently of the stroke phase while considering velocity effects, and that focusing on propulsive phases allows easier detection of vertical body position changes.		[Washino, Sohei; Murai, Akihiko; Kadi, Tomoya] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Human Augmentat Res Ctr, Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan; [Murai, Akihiko] PRESTO, Japan Sci & Technol Agcy, Kawaguchi, Saitama, Japan; [Kadi, Tomoya] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Grad Sch Phys Educ, Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan; [Mankyu, Hirotoshi] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Fac Sports & Budo Coaching Studies, Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan; [Yoshitake, Yasuhide] Shinshu Univ, Grad Sch Sci & Technol, Ueda, Nagano, Japan; [Yoshitake, Yasuhide] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Washino, Sohei] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Human Augmentat Res Ctr, Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001395985800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Fayyaz, Muhammad Shahzeb; Abbasi, Amir Zaib; Ahmad, Rehan; Qummar, Muhammad Hamza; Tsiotsou, Rodoula H.; Mahmood, Saqib								Gamers' gratifications and continuous intention to play eSports: the mediating role of gamers' satisfaction-a PLS-SEM and NCA study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			523	547		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2024-0068			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposeThis study aims to investigate the relationship between different hedonic (e.g. enjoyment and escapism) and utilitarian (e.g. achievement and challenge) gratifications and continuous intention to play eSports, considering the mediating role of gamer's satisfaction. Uses and Gratification theory (U&G) has been employed as the study's theoretical framework.Design/methodology/approachThe present study used a survey research method and a self-administered questionnaire to collect the data. The data was gathered on-site from students of three universities in Pakistan's Islamabad and Rawalpindi regions. Study respondents involved people from Gen Z and Gen Y aged between 18 to 25 and 26 to 40. A total of 401 responses were evaluated using the partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) and necessary condition analysis (NCA).FindingsThe PLS-SEM findings evidence that eSports players' hedonic (e.g. enjoyment and escapism) and utilitarian (e.g. challenge) gratification positively impact gamers' satisfaction, which subsequently drives eSports gamers' continuance intention behavior. Furthermore, gamers' satisfaction positively mediated the relationship between gratifications (e.g. enjoyment and escapism refer to hedonic, whereas achievement and challenge represent utilitarian) and continuance intentions. NCA on eSports gamers' satisfaction and continuance intention identified critical predictive factors. The analysis revealed that only enjoyment is necessary for predicting satisfaction. Interestingly, NCA results also indicated that enjoyment, achievement, escapism, challenge and satisfaction are all necessary for predicting eSports gamers' continuance intention.Originality/valueThis study investigates the mediating role of eSports gamers' satisfaction between gamers' perceived gratifications (i.e. enjoyment, escapism, achievement, challenge) and their continuous intention to play in the Pakistani context. More importantly, we employ a multi-method approach (e.g. a combined approach of PLS-SEM with NCA) to determine the sufficient and necessary conditions of the outcome variable comprising satisfaction and continuous intention.		[Fayyaz, Muhammad Shahzeb] Sunway Univ, Sunway Business Sch, Dept Mkt Strategy & Innovat, Bandar Sunway, Malaysia; [Abbasi, Amir Zaib] King Fahd Univ Petr & Minerals, KFUPM Business Sch, IRC Finance & Digital Econ, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia; [Qummar, Muhammad Hamza; Mahmood, Saqib] Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Inst Sci & Technol Isl, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Tsiotsou, Rodoula H.] Univ Macedonia, Dept Business Adm, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Qummar, Muhammad Hamza] Univ Malaysia Terengganu, Fac Business Econ & Social Dev, Kuala Terengganu, Malaysia; [Abbasi, Amir Zaib] King Fahd Univ Petr & Minerals, KFUPM Business Sch, IRC Finance & Digital Econ, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001390807900001	100	Article; Article		
J	Hooper, Curtis George								Increasing target size and strike percentage in Tenpin bowling: An analysis of the 2017 Weber Cup								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			767	773		10.1177/17479541241306543			APR 2025	2025	The ability to strike regularly in the sport of tenpin bowling is of paramount importance for bowlers should they wish to obtain high scores and compete at an elite level. Therefore, bowlers and their coaches are often looking to maximise the size of the contact area on pin number one (the head pin) that can be hit such that the chance of getting a strike is high. This effectively increases the margin of error that the bowler has, which could result in them having an advantage over the opposition. To help gain insight into the features of a shot that can potentially increase this area whilst maintaining a high strike percentage, ball tracking data from the 2025 Weber Cup is analysed. The position of the ball as it hits the pins is found to be important. If the ball travels through the pins without much deflection, and the position of the ball towards the last row of pins is close to the centre of the lane, then the target area around the head pin increases significantly. The entry angle and entry speed of the ball are found to be less important.		[Hooper, Curtis George] Loughborough Univ, Sports Technol Inst, Wolfson Sch Mech Elect & Mfg Engn, Loughborough LE11 3TU, England; [Hooper, Curtis George] Loughborough Univ, Sports Technol Inst, Wolfson Sch Mech Elect & Mfg Engn, Loughborough LE11 3TU, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001391531700001	19	Article; Article		
J	Csato, Laszlo								The fairness of the group draw for the FIFA World Cup								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			554	567		10.1177/17479541241300219			APR 2025	2025	Several sports tournaments contain a round-robin group stage where the teams are assigned to groups subject to some constraints. Hence, the organisers usually use a computer-assisted random draw to avoid any dead end, a situation when the teams still to be drawn cannot be assigned to the remaining empty slots. This procedure is known to be unfair: the feasible allocations are not equally likely, that is, the draw does not have a uniform distribution. We quantify the implied unfairness of the 2025 FIFA World Cup draw and evaluate its effect on the probability of qualification for the knockout stage for each national team. The official draw order of Pot 1, Pot 2, Pot 3, Pot 4 turns out to be a significantly better option than the 23 other draw orders with respect to the unwanted distortions. Nonetheless, the non-uniform draw distorts the probability of qualification by more than one percentage point for two countries. Our results call attention to the non-negligible role of draw order and make it possible for policymakers to decide whether using fairer draw mechanisms is justified.		[Csato, Laszlo] Hungarian Res Network HUN REN, Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAK, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Res Grp Operat Res & Dec Syst, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Inst Operat & Dec Sci, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAK, Kende St 13-17, Budapest, Hungary								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001391533400001	48	Article; Article		
J	Nozu, Shojiro; Johnson, Kristin A.; Matsuda, Tadamitsu; Takazawa, Yuji								Postural control strategies in individuals with and without chronic ankle instability during the reach phase of the posteromedial direction of the star excursion balance test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				18	24		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.12.008			MAR 2025	2025	Objective: To compare center of mass (COM) and center of pressure (COP) displacement, joint angles, and muscle activity for the ankle, knee, and hip during the posteromedial (PM) reach direction of the Star Excursion Balance Test between individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI) and healthy individuals. Design: Cross-sectional Study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Fifteen individuals with CAI (age: 20.0 +/- 1.2 y) and 20 healthy individuals (age: 20.6 +/- 0.8 y). Main outcome measures: The maximum reach distance (MRD). The COM and COP displacement, and ankle, knee, and hip joint angles of the stance limb during the PM reach task measured via a 3D motion analysis system. Electromyography (EMG) was also recorded during the task from the tibialis anterior (TA), soleus, peroneus longus, vastus medialis (VM), biceps femoris, and gluteus medius muscles. Results: MRD of the CAI group was shorter than the healthy group (P = 0.005). The CAI group showed higher COM positioning (P = 0.007), less knee flexion (P = 0.009), and lower muscle activity in TA (P = 0.04), and VM (P = 0.007) during performance of the PM reach as compared to the healthy group. Conclusions: These findings suggest that individuals with CAI demonstrate altered postural control strategies during PM reach performance, likely contributing to a shorter MRD.		[Nozu, Shojiro; Takazawa, Yuji] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Hiraka Gakuendai, Inzai City, Chiba 2701695, Japan; [Johnson, Kristin A.] Colorado State Univ, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Ft Collins, CO USA; [Matsuda, Tadamitsu] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Bunkyo Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Nozu, Shojiro; Takazawa, Yuji] Juntendo Univ, Fac Med, Dept Sports Med, Bunkyo Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Nozu, Shojiro] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Hiraka Gakuendai, Inzai City, Chiba 2701695, Japan								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001407219500001	33	Article; Article		
J	Garcia, Jaume; Perez, Levi; Suarez, Maria Jose								Interest in Sports and Sports Betting								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	3			336	352		10.1177/15270025241308846			APR 2025	2025	There has been a worldwide growth in sports betting activity, in part due to the widespread use of the Internet. The objective of this research is to make a joint analysis of the probabilities of offline and online sports gambling participation, focusing on their association with sport-related variables. To this aim, we estimate a bivariate probit model of online and offline sports betting using the 2022 Spanish Survey of Sporting Habits, a cross-sectional database representative of the Spanish population (sample size: 10,267 observations). In general, interest in sports and sports practice are correlated with sports betting. Moreover, people who play sports and, in particular, those who play football, have a higher probability of betting offline. In the case of online betting, all sport-related variables are statistically significant but sports participation. Another noteworthy result is the positive correlation in the random terms of the probabilities of offline and online sports betting.		[Garcia, Jaume] Univ Pompeu Fabra, Dept Econ & Business, Barcelona, Spain; [Perez, Levi; Suarez, Maria Jose] Univ Oviedo, Dept Econ, Asturias, Spain; [Suarez, Maria Jose] Univ Oviedo, Dept Econ, Asturias, Spain								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001390696400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Olszewski, Maciej; Golec, Joanna; Zajac, Bartosz; Krezlek, Piotr								Isometric and isokinetic hip strength in males with chronic ankle instability and its relationship with dynamic balance and self-reported instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72				9	17		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.12.007			MAR 2025	2025	Objectives: To investigate isometric and isokinetic hip strength as well as dynamic balance in males with chronic ankle instability (CAI) and explore potential associations between hip strength, dynamic balance, and self- reported instability. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: Fifty male participants (25 with CAI and 25 healthy controls). Main outcome measures: Hip isometric and isokinetic torque normalized to body weight, Lower Quarter Y-balance Test (YBT-LQ), the Polish version of The Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT-PL). Results: Significant differences were observed only in the hip isometric abductors/adductors strength ratio (p = 0.034, ES = 0.65), which was lower in the CAI group. CAI participants showed reduced dynamic balance in posterolateral reach (p = 0.006, ES = 0.92) and composite score of YBT-LQ (p = 0.012, ES = 0.91). There was a moderate positive correlation between dynamic balance and hip abductors strength during posteromedial (r = 0.40, p = 0.049) and posterolateral (r = 0.40, p = 0.048) YBT-LQ reaches, and isometric hip abductors strength moderately positively correlated with self-reported instability (r = 0.46, p = 0.021) in the CAI group. Conclusion: Males with CAI exhibit deficits in frontal plane hip isometric strength, specifically in the hip abductor/adductor ratio, while no deficits were observed in isokinetic strength. The relationships between hip abductors strength, dynamic balance, and self-reported ankle instability may suggest the importance of hip abductors isometric strength for functional outcomes in CAI-patients.		[Olszewski, Maciej; Krezlek, Piotr] Univ Phys Culture Krakow, Doctoral Sch, PL-31571 Krakow, Poland; [Golec, Joanna] Univ Phys Culture Krakow, Inst Rehabil Traumatol, PL-31571 Krakow, Poland; [Zajac, Bartosz] Univ Phys Culture Krakow, Lab Funct Diagnost, Cent Sci & Res Lab, PL-31571 Krakow, Poland; [Krezlek, Piotr] Univ Phys Culture Krakow, Lab Biophys & Movement Anal, Cent Sci & Res Lab, PL-31571 Krakow, Poland; [Olszewski, Maciej] Univ Phys Culture Krakow, Al Jana Pawla 278, PL-31571 Krakow, Poland								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001398619800001	75	Article; Article		
J	Guilfoyle, Lauren; Comyns, Tom; O'Sullivan, Kieran; Kenny, Ian C.								What do coaches want? Exploring the preferences of youth rugby union coaches for education in the implementation of injury prevention programmes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				72							10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.12.002			MAR 2025	2025	Objective: To explore youth Rugby Union coaches' preferences for education and support in the implementation of injury prevention programmes (IPPs). Methods: Twelve Rugby Union coaches involved with youth teams participated in five online focus groups. Conventional content analysis was used to determine preferences initially from transcripts, and thereafter main categories, generic categories and sub-categories. Results: Coach preferences were organised into three main categories: 'formal/non-formal learning', 'informal learning', and 'intrapersonal considerations'. The generic categories of 'logistics', 'content' and 'resources' featured substantially in coach preferences for education. Coaches prefer live structured group workshops in the pre-season period, which focus on the development of implicit knowledge. To do this, coaches prefer practical opportunities for coaching within the education session. In support of this education, coaches want resources (both physical and video) which assist in session planning. Conclusions: The preferences of youth Rugby Union coaches towards IPP education and support are similar to that of other coaching domains. A live practical workshop held in the pre-season is preferred, although facilitator preferences varied. A mismatch is evident between coach preferences for IPP education and what is currently being offered through NGB coach education therefore further exploration of NGB perspectives is warranted.		[Guilfoyle, Lauren; Comyns, Tom; Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Guilfoyle, Lauren; Comyns, Tom; O'Sullivan, Kieran; Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Guilfoyle, Lauren; Comyns, Tom; O'Sullivan, Kieran; Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [O'Sullivan, Kieran] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [O'Sullivan, Kieran] Univ Limerick, Ageing Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Irish Software Res Ctr, Lero, Limerick, Ireland; [Guilfoyle, Lauren] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001402482200001	63	Article; Article		
J	Yarbrough-Jones, Jacob A.; Shultz, Sarah P.; Walters, Brittany Heintz								Reliability of consumer applied wearable sensor for kinematic and kinetic analysis of overhand pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3181	3190		10.1080/14763141.2024.2446170			DEC 1 2024	2024	The PULSE workload monitor (PULSE) is a commercially available, wearable device that assesses upper extremity kinematics and kinetics during overhand pitching with three metrics to improve pitching performance. The purpose of this study was to determine the inter-tester and intra-tester reliability of the PULSE metrics when applied by a lay consumer versus trained researcher. A total of 14 healthy, adult male (age: 44.21 +/- 17.54 years) baseball players were fitted with the PULSE under two application conditions, participant application and researcher application of the device. Each participant performed seven pitches of three pitch types, including fastball, curveball, and change-up, per application condition. The protocol was repeated during a second session one week later. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) were determined to examine inter-tester and intra-tester reliability of the PULSE metrics between placement conditions and across sessions. For all pitch types, inter-tester reliability (ICC > 0.758) and intra-tester reliability (participant application: ICC > 0.710; researcher application: ICC > 0.890) were strong, indicating that the device is reliable when placed by a lay consumer. Findings suggest that PULSE may serve as an easily accessible, wearable device for reproducing pitching metrics that can inform consumer training.		[Yarbrough-Jones, Jacob A.; Shultz, Sarah P.; Walters, Brittany Heintz] Seattle Univ, Kinesiol Dept, Seattle, WA 98122 USA; [Shultz, Sarah P.] Ft Lewis Coll, Sch Arts & Sci, Durango, CO 81301 USA; [Shultz, Sarah P.] Seattle Univ, Kinesiol Dept, Seattle, WA 98122 USA; [Shultz, Sarah P.] Ft Lewis Coll, Sch Arts & Sci, Durango, CO 81301 USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001392574500001	16	Article; Article		
J	Chang, Yonghwan; Mansfield, Aaron C.; Yoo, Taewoong								Influence of game context on sport fan dietary choices: framing food attributes to promote healthier eating								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			507	522		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2024-0165			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposeThis study investigates the intersection between nutrition and sport management, focusing on how sport fans' dietary choices are influenced by the framing of food attributes in different game contexts.Design/methodology/approachTwo experiments were conducted around American football events to examine these choices. Experiment 1 utilized a 2 (Perceptions of Rivalry Games: Rivalry vs. Non-Rivalry) x 3 (Perceived Food Attributes: Energy vs. Healthiness vs. Environmental-Friendliness) between-subjects design. Experiment 2 employed a 2 (Game Outcome: Victory vs. Loss) x 3 (Perceived Food Attributes: Energy vs. Healthiness vs. Environmental-Friendliness) between-subjects design.FindingsThe findings revealed that during rivalry games or after their favorite teams' losses, fans tend to prefer high-calorie, nutrient-poor foods framed as energy sources. Conversely, victories prompt fans to opt for healthier and more environmentally friendly food choices.Originality/valueThis research provides novel insights into how a performance-driven mindset influences dietary choices among sport spectators. The results offer practical implications for sport managers and marketers, emphasizing the importance of strategically framing food attributes at sporting events to encourage healthier eating behaviors among fans. By leveraging these insights, sport organizations can enhance fan experiences and promote overall well-being.		[Chang, Yonghwan; Yoo, Taewoong] Univ Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Mansfield, Aaron C.] Merrimack Coll, N Andover, MA USA; [Chang, Yonghwan] Univ Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001386505800001	51	Article; Article		
J	Chia, Cheryl Shu Ming; Fu, Sai-Chuen; Ko, Violet Man-Chi; He, Xin; Zhang, Xueyou; Hua, Yinghui; Yung, Patrick Shu-Hang; Ling, Samuel Ka-Kin								Investigating peroneus muscle quality in ankle stability: A comparative analysis between chronic ankle instability patients and healthy controls								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				74				104	117		10.1016/j.ptsp.2025.06.001			JUL 2025	2025	Objectives: To compare peroneal muscle quality between individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI) and healthy controls, and to examine their relationship with ankle stability. Design: Case-control study. Setting: Sports Medicine research laboratory. Methods: Sixty-five participants (35 with unilateral CAI, 30 healthy controls) were assessed. Peroneal muscle size, echogenicity, and passive stiffness were measured using ultrasound imaging and eversion strength was assessed with a hand-held dynamometer. Ankle stability was evaluated using the Y Balance Test (YBT), lateral step-down, and single-leg stance tests. Results: Compared to controls, individuals with CAI showed significantly lower eversion strength, higher muscle echogenicity, and increased passive stiffness. In the CAI group, greater stiffness and reduced strength were associated with higher centre of pressure displacement during single-leg stance. Higher eversion strength was associated with increased YBT scores across all participants. Echogenicity was not directly associated with stability functions. Conclusion: Deficits in peroneal muscle quality, involving echogenicity, strength and stiffness, are demonstrated in the CAI population. These factors are associated with impaired instability among CAI individuals. Interventions targeting peroneal muscle quality may improve balance and reduce the risk of recurrent ankle injuries in this population.		[Chia, Cheryl Shu Ming; Fu, Sai-Chuen; Ko, Violet Man-Chi; He, Xin; Zhang, Xueyou; Yung, Patrick Shu-Hang; Ling, Samuel Ka-Kin] Chinese Univ Hong Kong CUHK, Fac Med, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Hua, Yinghui] Fudan Univ, Huashan Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Ling, Samuel Ka-Kin] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Prince Wales Hosp, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, Shatin, 5 Floor,LCW Clin Sci Bldg,Ngan Shing St, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001524974700001	104	Article; Article		
J	Janicijevic, Danica; Miras-Moreno, Sergio; Morenas-Aguilar, Maria Dolores; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								Does the Length of Inter-Set Rest Periods Impact the Volume of Bench Pull Repetitions Completed before Surpassing Various Cut-Off Velocities?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				139	150		10.5114/jhk/188366			JAN 2025	2025	This study aimed to determine the optimal inter-set rest periods that would maximize the number of repetitions completed before surpassing various cut-off velocities (COVs) during the prone bench pull exercise. Twenty-three physically active individuals, 15 men and 8 women, participated in six random testing sessions. Each session included four sets of the prone bench pull exercise performed with maximum intent on a Smith machine at 75% of the one-repetition maximum (1RM). The length of the inter-set rest interval (1 [R1], 3 [R3], and 5 [R5] min) and COV used (0.65 m<middle dot>s(-1 )[COV0.65] and 0.55 m<middle dot>s(-1) [COV0.55]) varied between sessions. Longer inter-set rest periods led to a higher volume of repetitions (R5 > R3 > R1), whereas the differences between the rest protocols were larger for COV0.55 (R1: 28.4 +/- 6.0 repetitions; R3: 36.4 +/- 9.4 repetitions; R5: 41.1 +/- 11.4 repetitions) compared to COV0.65 (R1: 24.2 +/- 7.3 repetitions; R3: 25.4 +/- 10.1 repetitions; R5: 28.3 +/- 9.7 repetitions). Increasing the number of sets negatively impacted the number of completed repetitions for R1 using both COV0.65 and COV0.55, as well as for R3 using COV0.55. The fastest velocity of the set (MVfastest) did not differ between the inter-set rest protocols for COV0.65, while for COV0.55, R3 and R5 provided a greater MVfastest than R1 for sets 2-4. These findings suggest that the duration of inter-set rest periods is an important factor to consider when aiming to maximize mechanical performance across multiple sets of the prone bench pull exercise.		[Janicijevic, Danica] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Janicijevic, Danica] Ningbo 2 Hosp, Dept Radiol, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Miras-Moreno, Sergio; Morenas-Aguilar, Maria Dolores; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400011	37	Article; Article		
J	Savolainen, Eero H. J.; Ihalainen, Johanna K.; Walker, Simon								Female Soccer Players' In-Season Weekly Training Load and Intensity: Comparison between National League's Top and Bottom-Half Ranked Teams								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				187	198		10.5114/jhk/189657			JAN 2025	2025	This study aimed to (1) quantify national-level female soccer players' accumulated microcycle (weekly) training load (accumulated absolute value) and intensity (value relative to duration), (2) investigate possible differences in training load and intensity between teams in the league's top- and bottom-half.Sixty-three females from six teams in the highest league participated in the study. Participants were divided into top-half (TH, n = 28) and bottom-half (BH, n = 35) groups based on their team's league ranking. Players' external and internal training load and intensity were monitored in all on-field training sessions and league matches during a three-week observation period (690 data samples) using the Polar Team Pro system. There were no differences between groups in the number of weekly training sessions or total duration. Accumulated external and internal load were highly similar between groups. Instead, the TH group reached significantly higher values than the BH group in multiple external intensity variables, such as total distance per minute and the number of low-, moderate- and high-intensity accelerations per minute (p = 0.004-0.001). There were no differences in the mean heart rate between groups. The TH group's training external intensity was also closer to match intensity in multiple variables, such as total distance and the number of low- and moderate-intensity accelerations and decelerations compared to the BH group (p = 0.029-0.001). These findings suggest that more successful teams achieved higher external intensity for the same internal response, and their average external training intensity was closer to match demands. Thus, it seems plausible that TH players had better physical qualities and their training prepared them better for matches than BH.		[Savolainen, Eero H. J.; Ihalainen, Johanna K.; Walker, Simon] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Ihalainen, Johanna K.] Finnish Inst High Performance Sport KIHU, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Walker, Simon] Univ Jyvaskyla, Neuromuscular Res Ctr, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Savolainen, Eero H. J.] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400015	33	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Qingshan; Gassier, Robin; Eymard, Noemie; Pommel, Felicie; Berthier, Philippe; Rahmani, Abderrahmane; Hautier, Christophe A.								Predicting Throwing Performance with Force-Velocity Mechanical Properties of the Upper Limb in Experienced Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				43	53		10.5114/jhk/190224			JAN 2025	2025	This study investigated the relationship between force-power-velocity (F-P-V) mechanical variables measured during the ballistic bench press throw (BPT), shoulder isokinetic rotation strength, and the throwing velocity in handball players. Twenty-seven experienced male handball players (age: 20.0 +/- 3.2 yrs, body height: 180.5 +/- 6.3 cm, body mass: 73.9 +/- 7.9 kg) volunteered for the investigation. F-P-V mechanical variables (i.e., theoretical maximal force [F0], velocity [V0], power [P-max]) were obtained during the single-arm BPT and an isokinetic shoulder isokinetic internal rotation test. Throwing performance was assessed for the standing and 3-step throwing velocity. Participants were divided into a "High/Fast" and a "Low/Slow" group considering their throwing performance based on a median split analysis. A strong correlation was found between V-0 obtained from the BPT and maximal throwing velocity for standing throwing (r(2) = 0.51, f(2) = 1.04) and three-step throwing (r(2) = 0.46, f(2) = 0.85). At the same time, P-max obtained from the BPT had a weak association with three-step throwing performance (r(2) = 0.18, f(2) = 0.22). Furthermore, no significant correlation was found between all the mechanical variables obtained from the isokinetic rotation and throwing performance (all p-values > 0.05). The High/Fast group showed that only V-0 and P-max obtained from the ballistic BPT had a small to moderate effect size (ES [0.06 0.23]) compared to the Low/Slow group. This finding indicates the importance of measuring the upper limb F-P-V profile obtained from the BPT in predicting throwing performance. Thus, training programs should focus on F-P-V mechanical properties to design specific training methods to optimize throwing performance in handball players.		[Zhang, Qingshan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Qingshan; Gassier, Robin; Eymard, Noemie; Berthier, Philippe; Hautier, Christophe A.] Univ Lyon, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, Villeurbanne, France; [Pommel, Felicie; Rahmani, Abderrahmane] Le Mans Univ, Lab Motr, Interact, Performance, Le Mans, France; [Zhang, Qingshan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Qingshan] Univ Lyon, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, Villeurbanne, France								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400004	29	Article; Article		
J	Zabaloy, Santiago; Healy, Robin; Pereira, Lucas A.; Tondelli, Eduardo; Tomaghelli, Luciano; Aparicio, Juan; Vega, Franco; Medrano, Joaquin; Giraldez, Julian; Comyns, Thomas; Freitas, Tomas T.; Loturco, Irineu								A Randomized Controlled Trial of Unresisted vs. Heavy Resisted Sprint Training Programs: Effects on Strength, Jump, Unresisted and Resisted Sprint Performance in Youth Rugby Union Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				199	214		10.5114/jhk/200121			JAN 2025	2025	This study aimed to compare: 1) the effects of a 4-week unresisted vs. resisted sprint training programs (UST and RST with 50% body mass, respectively) on both resisted and unresisted sprint performance; and 2) the effects of these sprint training schemes on various strength-power measures (i.e., one-repetition maximum [1RM] and the isometric squat test (ISqT), eccentric hamstring strength in the Nordic hamstring exercise [NHE], and vertical and horizontal jump distances). Thirty-five under-19 male academy rugby players participated in the study and were randomly assigned to one of the two training groups. Players' unresisted and resisted (50% BM) 30-m sprint performance, squat 1RM, ISqT, NHE, and jump capabilities were tested on different occasions. Only UST produced a significant reduction in unresisted 30-m sprint time (p < 0.05), whereas both groups exhibited significant changes in resisted sprint times at 10 m and 30 m, as well as maximum velocity (p < 0.005; ES: large). Regarding strength measures, RST led to significant increases in ISqT peak force, horizontal jump distance, and NHE strength (p < 0.011; ES: large). Overall, no significant differences were detected between UST and RST in any of the primary or secondary measures after the intervention. Both training methods were equally effective in improving resisted sprint performance in youth male rugby players. Moreover, UST and RST could be effective options for maintaining or even improving various neuromuscular measures (e.g., dynamic-explosive, isometric, and eccentric strength) when lower limb resistance training is reduced during the competitive season due to the congested schedule.		[Zabaloy, Santiago; Tondelli, Eduardo; Giraldez, Julian; Loturco, Irineu] Univ Flores, Fac Phys Act & Sports, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Zabaloy, Santiago; Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Zabaloy, Santiago; Vega, Franco; Medrano, Joaquin] Belgrano Athlet Club, Rugby Dept, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Zabaloy, Santiago; Pereira, Lucas A.; Freitas, Tomas T.; Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Healy, Robin] Technol Univ Shannon, Dept Hlth Sci, Athlone, England; [Tondelli, Eduardo] Univ Buenos Aires UBA, Fac Med, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Tomaghelli, Luciano] UNIV SALVADOR, Fac Med, BUENOS AIRES, Argentina; [Comyns, Thomas] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Freitas, Tomas T.; Loturco, Irineu] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomas T.; Loturco, Irineu] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, Fac Deporte, Murcia, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, Fac Deporte, Murcia, Spain								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400016	36	Article; Article		
J	Vega-Diaz, Marta; Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio								Do Parenting Styles Influence Mental Toughness and Sportsmanship in Young Athletes? A Structural Equation Modelling Approach								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				243	257		10.5114/jhk/188541			JAN 2025	2025	The goal of this research was to evaluate whether there are relationships between parenting styles, mental toughness, and sportsmanship in athletes. The sample was made up of 201 Spanish adolescent athletes (Mage = 15.30; SD = 1.82; 110 men and 91 women) who completed the Child-Parental Acceptance-Rejection Questionnaire, the Mental Toughness Inventory, and the Spanish version of the Multidimensional Sportsmanship Questionnaire. Structural equation modeling was used to examine the relationships among the studied variables. The results revealed that maternal and paternal love/affection significantly positively predicted mental toughness. Likewise, the results showed that paternal hostility/aggression and indifference/neglect significantly positively predicted fair play. In conclusion, given the connection between perceived parental education, psychological variables (mental toughness), and sports ethics principles (sportsmanship) of athletes, programs that train athletes' cognitive and axiological skills should not ignore the parental role. Hence, an attempt could be made to encourage athletes to compete when feeling mentally strong and respecting the ethical values of sportsmanship.		[Vega-Diaz, Marta] Univ Int La Rioja UNIR, Fac Educ, Logrono, Spain; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Univ Int La Rioja UNIR, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Hlth, TECNODEF Res Grp, La Rioja, Spain; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Univ Int La Rioja UNIR, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Hlth, TECNODEF Res Grp, La Rioja, Spain								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400019	68	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Zhili; Liao, Kaifang; Bishop, Chris; Bian, Chao; Li, Yongming								Validity of Three Commercial Devices for Recording Movement Velocity in the Bulgarian Split Squat								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				161	171		10.5114/jhk/189365			JAN 2025	2025	This study aimed to assess the validity of three commercial devices in recording mean velocity (MV) and peak velocity (PV) during a unilateral resistance exercise. Eighteen strength-trained and healthy males performed repetitions of Bulgarian split squats at loads ranging from 40% to 90% of their one-repetition maximum. MV and PV were simultaneously recorded by GymAware, PUSH, My Lift and compared to Vicon for all repetitions. Concurrent validity was assessed through a linear mixed model, as well as mean difference (MD), mean absolute error (MAE) and Hedge's g effect sizes. GymAware was found to be valid in MV (MD = -0.02 to -0.01 m/s, MAE = 0.02 to 0.03 m/s, g = -0.08 to -0.19) and PV (MD = 0.01 to 0.05 m/s, MAE = 0.05 to 0.07 m/s, g = -0.06 to -0.22) recordings. Significant differences were identified between GymAware, PUSH, My Lift and Vicon for both MV (p < 0.01) and PV (p < 0.01) assessments. Moreover, when comparing MV and PV recorded by PUSH and My Lift to Vicon, larger MD and MAE, and trivial to moderate effects were also evident. Therefore, our findings suggest that GymAware could be an alternative for recording MV and PV during unilateral resistance exercises.		[Chen, Zhili; Liao, Kaifang; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liao, Kaifang; Bian, Chao] Guangdong Vocat Inst Sport, Sch Sports Hlth, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400013	34	Article; Article		
J	Staskiewicz-Bartecka, Wiktoria; Zydek, Grzegorz; Michalczyk, Malgorzata Magdalena; Kardas, Marek								Prevalence of Eating Disorders and Self-Perception Concerning Body Composition Analysis among Elite Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				259	272		10.5114/jhk/194464			JAN 2025	2025	In the field of mental health, eating disorders (EDs) are an important subject of research, especially regarding athletes. This study examined the risk of EDs, orthorexia nervosa (ON), and body perception among elite soccer players, focusing on the impact of body composition. Conducted from March to April 2024 with 51 players from the elite and 1st division clubs, the research utilized the Eating Attitudes Test (EAT-26), the D & uuml;sseldorf Orthorexia Scale (DOS), and the Body Esteem Scale (BES) alongside body composition analysis via Direct Segmental Multi-Frequency Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis (DSM-BIA). Findings indicated a significant prevalence of ED risk among players, with more than half showing potential symptoms. Body composition analyses revealed that players with a higher fat mass had an increased ED risk, while muscle mass did not correlate significantly with ED attitudes. Regarding ON, approximately one-third of athletes were at risk, although no significant relationship was found between ON and body composition variables. In terms of body image, players generally viewed their bodies moderately, rating physical fitness, sex drive, and health positively. However, a higher body fat was associated with lower ratings in upper body strength, indicating perceived physical limitations. This study highlights the necessity for targeted interventions to manage the high prevalence of EDs among elite soccer players and promote healthier body image perceptions, emphasizing the low relationship between body esteem and the likelihood of developing EDs or ON.		[Staskiewicz-Bartecka, Wiktoria; Kardas, Marek] Med Univ Silesia, Dept Food Technol & Qual Evaluat, Katowice, Poland; [Staskiewicz-Bartecka, Wiktoria; Michalczyk, Malgorzata Magdalena] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Zydek, Grzegorz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sport Nutr, Katowice, Poland; [Staskiewicz-Bartecka, Wiktoria] Med Univ Silesia, Dept Food Technol & Qual Evaluat, Katowice, Poland; [Staskiewicz-Bartecka, Wiktoria] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400020	45	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Xueying; Ren, Weiyan; Wang, Xingyue; Yao, Jie; Pu, Fang								Quantifying Quadriceps Forces during Running Performed with and without Infrapatellar Straps								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				29	42		10.5114/jhk/190143			JAN 2025	2025	Running-related knee injuries are associated with high and repetitive quadriceps contractions. Infrapatellar straps are commonly recommended for the prevention and management of those injuries. The effects of infrapatellar straps have been investigated in terms of quadriceps activations. However, these indexes cannot accurately characterize the quadriceps forces, which directly contribute to knee injuries. This study aimed to quantify quadriceps forces during running performed with and without infrapatellar straps based on OpenSim. Experimental data from 18 healthy participants were recorded using a 10-camera motion capture system and two force plates when they performed running at self-selected speeds with and without infrapatellar straps. OpenSim was used to estimate muscle forces, muscle activity, joint kinematics, and joint kinetics. The use of infrapatellar straps significantly reduced peak quadriceps forces (p < 0.001), accumulated forces of quadriceps (p < 0.001), and peak knee extension moments (p < 0.001). Among the four distinct muscles of the quadriceps, the vastus lateralis contributed the most to the reduction in quadriceps muscle forces. Strapping did not result in a significant change in rectus femoris forces (p > 0.05). The use of infrapatellar straps results in lower vastus muscle forces, and thus could be helpful in managing and preventing running-related knee injuries. However, infrapatellar straps may have little effect in people with an excessively forceful rectus femoris.		[Zhang, Xueying; Wang, Xingyue; Yao, Jie; Pu, Fang] Beihang Univ, Beijing Adv Innovat Ctr Biomed Engn, Sch Biol Sci & Med Engn, Key Lab Human Mot Anal & Rehabil Technol,Minist Ci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Ren, Weiyan] Beihang Univ, Sch Engn Med, Key Lab Biomech & Mechanobiol, Minist Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Pu, Fang] Beihang Univ, State Key Lab Virtual Real Technol & Syst, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yao, Jie; Pu, Fang] Beihang Univ, Beijing Adv Innovat Ctr Biomed Engn, Sch Biol Sci & Med Engn, Key Lab Human Mot Anal & Rehabil Technol,Minist Ci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Pu, Fang] Beihang Univ, State Key Lab Virtual Real Technol & Syst, Beijing, Peoples R China								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400003	31	Article; Article		
J	Lyu, Mengde; Yin, Mingyue; Ding, Ling; Tang, Renhuan; Chen, Zhili; Deng, Shengji; Zhong, Yuming; Li, Zhan; Nassis, George P.; Li, Yongming								Physiological and Neuromuscular Fatigue after 3-Minute Lateral Shuffle Movement at Different Speeds and Distances								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				151	159		10.5114/jhk/190145			JAN 2025	2025	This study aimed to 1) investigate and compare physiological and neuromuscular fatigue after a 3-min lateral shuffle movement (LSM) at different speeds and distances, and 2) examine the relationship between the number of changes of direction (CODs) during LSM and fatigue-related variables. Twenty male college athletes (age: 20.9 +/- 1.7 yrs, body mass: 72.8 +/- 8.6 kg, body height: 177.9 +/- 5.6 cm; mean +/- SD) performed six LSM protocols at two speeds (1.8 and 2.0 m/s) and three distances (2.5, 5 and 10 m) in random order and on separate days. The heart rate (HR), blood lactate (BLa) concentration, the rating of perceived exertion (RPE) and the countermovement jump (CMJ) were assessed and recorded before and immediately after exercise. Neuromuscular fatigue was assessed with the decline in CMJ performance (CMJdecline). Results showed no interaction effect (speed*distance) for all variables. The distance was a significant factor influencing the HR (F = 12.663, p = 0.000, eta p2 = 0.25), BLa concentration (F = 15.357, p = 0.000, eta(2)(p) = 0.288), CMJdecline (F = 19.496, p = 0.000, eta(2)(p) = 0.339), and the RPE (F = 20.149, p = 0.000, eta(2)(p) = 0.347). Speed was also a significant factor influencing the HR (F = 6.367, p = 0.016, eta(2)(p) = 0.144), BLa concentration (F = 10.292, p = 0.000, eta(2)(p) = 0.213), CMJdecline (F = 9.014, p = 0.005, eta(2)(p) = 0.192), and the RPE (F = 9.539, p = 0.004, eta(2)(p) = 0.201). CODs displayed moderate correlations with BLa concentration (r = 0.331, p < 0.001), CMJdecline (r = -0.415, p < 0.001), and the RPE (r = 0.318, p < 0.001). These results suggest that physiological and neuromuscular fatigue would be greater with higher speed and shorter distance of LSM.		[Lyu, Mengde; Yin, Mingyue; Tang, Renhuan; Chen, Zhili; Zhong, Yuming; Li, Zhan; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Ding, Ling] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Deng, Shengji] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci, Perth, Australia; [Nassis, George P.] Univ Kalba, Coll Sport Sci, Kalba, Sharjah, U Arab Emirates; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400012	23	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Shuxin; Zhao, Yixiao; Chen, Xiaotong; Shen, Yupeng								Effect of Increasing the Foot Area on the Load-Velocity Relationship of the Underwater Dolphin Kick								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				17	27		10.5114/jhk/189796			JAN 2025	2025	The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of augmenting the foot area (by wearing fins) on the loadvelocity relationship of the underwater dolphin kick (UDK) and to investigate the optimal loading zone of resistance training for the UDK. Seventeen swimmers underwent a semi-tethered swimming test and a 15-m maximum swim velocity test, both with and without fins (FINS and WF, respectively). The study revealed that the UDK's load-velocity relationship, when using semi-tethered swimming, displayed a robust linear correlation (R2 = 0.88 +/- 0.15). The FINS condition enhanced the optimization of the load-velocity relationship, resulting in a substantial rightward shift (R2, AIC, BIC optimized by 15%-65%) and elevating the UDK velocity by 10%-22% across seven load levels. The effective load level rose from 57 N to 69 N (R = 0.70-0.85, p < 0.05); however, the FINS condition altered the original UDK technique, leading to a 7% decrease in the stroke rate (SR) and a 19% increase in stroke length (SL). Consequently, wearing fins modified the load-velocity relationship of the UDK and augmented the power output level. We recommend that athletes use semi-traction swimming to improve UDK performance with a maximum load of no more than 57 N or a velocity of no less than 73% of maximum velocity; wearing fins allows this range to be extended to 69 N and 71% of maximum velocity.		[Wang, Shuxin; Zhao, Yixiao; Chen, Xiaotong; Shen, Yupeng] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Wang, Shuxin] Guangdong Polytech Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Shen, Yupeng] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400002	28	Article; Article		
J	Ruiz, Juan P. Medellin; Abellan-Aynes, Oriol; Garcia, Diana P.; Martinez-Aranda, Luis M.								Delayed Effects of Different Velocity Loss-Based Resistance Training on Autonomic Regulation, Sleep Quality and Muscle Soreness								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				83	94		10.5114/jhk/189703			JAN 2025	2025	Resistance training has been shown to be a stressor factor on the autonomic nervous system, and these changes can be detected by heart rate variability (HRV) analysis. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the delayed effects of velocity loss-based resistance training strategies on heart rate variability (HRV), the sleep quality index (SQI) and delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS). Fourteen men performed daily recordings. After a baseline period of 14 days of no training, they performed one session per week of resistance training focused on lower body exercise (squats) based on movement velocity. Three resistance training sessions composed of four sets up to 10%, 20% and 40% of velocity loss were performed each week of the study. Statistically significant changes (p < 0.05) after 24 hours of training were found in DOMS, and HRV variables, specifically in RR intervals (RR), root mean square of successive differences of RR intervals (RMSSD), and the percentage of successive RR intervals that differed by more than 50 ms (pNN50), between 40% of velocity movement loss and the rest of conditions. We can conclude that greater losses of execution velocity may result in greater internal load stimuli according to the autonomic modulation measured by HRV. RR, RMSSD and pNN50 seem to be the most sensitive indicators of HRV to fatigue produced by resistance training. This research opens the door to the study of HRV behavior related to resistance training. New research possibilities are raised by measuring the effect of guiding resistance training by means of HRV behavior.		[Ruiz, Juan P. Medellin] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, Fac Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Abellan-Aynes, Oriol] Publ Univ Navarre UPNA, Dept Hlth Sci, Pamplona, Spain; [Garcia, Diana P.] Natl Learning Serv SENA, Phys Act & Culture Format Training Ctr Capital Dis, Bogota, DC, Colombia; [Martinez-Aranda, Luis M.] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Phys & Sports Performance Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Martinez-Aranda, Luis M.] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Sci Based Training SBT Res Grp, SEJ 680, Seville, Spain; [Abellan-Aynes, Oriol] Publ Univ Navarre UPNA, Dept Hlth Sci, Pamplona, Spain								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400007	43	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Kilit, Bulent; Arslan, Ersan; Bragada, Jose A.; Soylu, Yusuf; Marinho, Daniel A.								Effects of On-Court Tennis Training Combined with HIIT versus RST on Aerobic Capacity, Speed, Agility, Jumping Ability, and Internal Loads in Young Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				173	185		10.5114/jhk/189691			JAN 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of on-court tennis training (OTT) combined with high-intensity interval training (HIIT) or repeated sprint training (RST) on the physiological, kinematic, kinetic, and perceptual responses of young tennis players. Twenty-four male tennis players (age 13.6 +/- 0.3 years) were randomly assigned to either the OTT + HIIT group (n = 12) or the OTT + RST group (n = 12) three times per week for six weeks. Both groups trained for the same total training time with passive rest in each session. A number of physiological, performance and perceptual responses were measured before and after the 6-week training intervention. All variables showed a significant improvement over time, with maximal oxygen uptake showing the greatest improvement (p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.97). The 5-m sprint (p = 0.044, eta(2) = 0.17), repeated sprint ability (p = 0.021, eta(2) = 0.22), and T-drill agility (p = 0.048, eta(2) = 0.17) showed a significant group effect. The OTT + RST group had a lower internal training load (better scores), a lower rate of perceived exertion (better scores), and higher scores in the Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale (PACES) at both times compared to the OTT + HITT group. These results demonstrate that OTT + RST appears to be a more effective training approach to improve speed and agility-based performance responses with more enjoyment in young tennis players.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Bragada, Jose A.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Bragada, Jose A.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Res Ctr Act Living & Wellbeing LiveWell, Braganca, Portugal; [Kilit, Bulent; Arslan, Ersan; Soylu, Yusuf] Tokat Gaziosmanpasa Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokat, Turkiye; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Res Ctr Act Living & Wellbeing LiveWell, Braganca, Portugal								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400014	37	Article; Article		
J	Los Arcos, Asier; Gonzalez-Artetxe, Asier; Lombardero, Sara; Esnal-Arrizabalaga, Oihan; Aginaga, Jokin								Exploring the Impact of Social Relationship Modification on Young Female Soccer Players' Performance in Small-Sided Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				227	241		10.5114/jhk/189425			JAN 2025	2025	This study compared young female soccer players' tactical, conditional, and emotional responses during two small-sided games (SSGs), without restrictions (SSG(free)), and introducing an additional rule (SSG(relationship): if a player touches an opponent just before she receives the ball, her team wins the ball back with an indirect free kick). Fourteen developmental U14 players participated in two 4 x 6-min seven-a-side games (six each, plus goalkeepers) on a 50-m long x 30-m wide field. Players' positional data were collected using a GPS to assess their tactical performance (central tendency and entropy measures of the surface area, distance between players and to the nearest opponent, and stretch and spatial exploration indices) and conditional performance (total and low-moderate, high, very high speed, sprinting distance covered, and the number of accelerations and decelerations). Participants also rated their perceived enjoyment and competence using the BECS scale. Tactical central tendency measures were higher during SSG(free)(p < 0.05) than in SSG(relationship), but no differences were apparent for entropy and conditional measures (p > 0.05). From bout to bout, central tendency measures of tactical variables decreased more frequently during SSG(free )than SSG(relationship). Entropy measures and conditional performance hardly varied between bouts. Enjoyment and perceived competence levels were similar for both SSGs. The findings indicate that modifying the interaction between opponents affects players' tactical responses more than conditional responses when compared with free play. Specifically, touching an opponent before they receive the ball may encourage players to play closer to their opponents during training tasks.		[Los Arcos, Asier; Gonzalez-Artetxe, Asier; Lombardero, Sara; Esnal-Arrizabalaga, Oihan] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, UPV EHU, Vitoria, Araba, Spain; [Los Arcos, Asier; Gonzalez-Artetxe, Asier] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Soc Sports & Phys Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Araba, Spain; [Lombardero, Sara; Esnal-Arrizabalaga, Oihan] Soc Deport Eibar, Eibar, Gipuzkoa, Spain; [Aginaga, Jokin] Univ Publ Navarra, Inst Smart Cities ISC, Irunea Pamplona, Navarra, Spain; [Gonzalez-Artetxe, Asier] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, UPV EHU, Vitoria, Araba, Spain; [Gonzalez-Artetxe, Asier] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Soc Sports & Phys Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Araba, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400018	53	Article; Article		
J	Marocolo, Moacir; Arriel, Rhai A.; Guedes, Guilherme; Meireles, Anderson; Krzysztofik, Michal; Chycki, Jakub; Zajac, Adam; Souza, Hiago L. R.								Evaluating Local Muscle Oxygen Saturation: Ischemic Preconditioning Protocols and the Myth of Overcompensation								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95							10.5114/jhk/194066			JAN 2025	2025	Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) is a promising strategy to enhance athletic performance and recovery by improving local muscle oxygen saturation. This study aimed to investigate the effects of different IPC protocols on muscle oxygenation in physically active healthy men. Thirty-four subjects were randomized into three groups and underwent four occlusion cycles of duration of three (IPC-3), five (IPC-5) or seven (IPC-7) min in only one limb. Near-infrared spectroscopy was used to assess oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin levels, calculating total hemoglobin and oxygen saturation percentage (TSI%). Results showed significant improvements in muscle oxygenation following IPC, with variations in minimum, peak, and mean values across protocols. IPC-5 demonstrated the most consistent enhancements in oxygen saturation levels, with statistically significant differences observed in TSI% values during occlusion and reperfusion phases compared to IPC-3 (p < 0.05) and IPC-7 (p < 0.05), without supercompensation of TSI% during reperfusion phases compared to baseline. Specifically, IPC-5 induced the greatest increase in oxygenation in the contralateral limb compared to IPC-3 and IPC-7. These findings suggest that IPC, particularly the five-min protocol, effectively enhances local muscle oxygenation in non-occluded limbs, which may contribute to improved athletic performance and recovery, mainly under conditions where the exercise or testing does not directly involve cuffed limbs.		[Marocolo, Moacir; Guedes, Guilherme; Meireles, Anderson; Souza, Hiago L. R.] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Dept Biophys & Physiol, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Marocolo, Moacir; Arriel, Rhai A.] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Training & Exercise Sci, Bochum, Germany; [Krzysztofik, Michal; Zajac, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Marocolo, Moacir] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Dept Biophys & Physiol, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Marocolo, Moacir] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Training & Exercise Sci, Bochum, Germany								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400006	40	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Zhili; Lyu, Mengde; Yin, Mingyue; Deng, Shengji; Bishop, Chris; Harper, Damian; Dai, Boyi; Li, Yongming								Test-Retest Reliability and Sensitivity of Kinematic and Kinetic Metrics Measured from Horizontal Deceleration Ability Tests with Different Sprinting Distances								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				95				5	16		10.5114/jhk/189659			JAN 2025	2025	This study aimed to (1) assess the test-retest reliability and sensitivity of kinematic and kinetic metrics from 5m, 10-m, and 20-m horizontal deceleration ability (HDA) tests; (2) explore the relationships of those metrics from HDA5m, HDA10m and HDA20m tests. Eighteen college athletes completed one familiarization session and two test sessions separated by 48 hours. Test sessions consisted of three 5-m, 10-m, and two 20-m maximal sprints, along with HDA tests conducted at the same sprinting distances. The deceleration-related metrics measured from HDA5m, HDA10m and HDA20m tests showed good-to-excellent overall reliability (ICC > 0.75, CV < 5.81%) and were efficiently sensitive in detecting moderate changes in deceleration performance (SEM < SWC0.5), except for the DTS and TTS of the HDA20m test (ICC: 0.44-0.57, CV: 5.15-6.37%, SEM > SWC0.5). DTS and TTS of the HDA5m test showed nonsignificant and small to moderate relationships with the HDA10m and HDA20m tests, while all kinetic metrics displayed significant and large to very large correlations among three tests. This suggests that short-distance HDA tests are reliable and sensitive for assessing deceleration performance, and further research is needed to explore the biomechanical and physiological factors influencing this unique ability.		[Chen, Zhili; Lyu, Mengde; Yin, Mingyue; Deng, Shengji; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Harper, Damian] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Sch Hlth Social Work & Sport, Preston, England; [Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY USA; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001424460400001	32	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Tongzhou; Zhao, Yilin; Adams, Roger; Malliaras, Peter; Witchalls, Jeremy; Fu, Weijie; Han, Jia								The effect of anti-pronation and anti-supination taping on neuromuscular control in recreational athletes with Achilles Tendinopathy: A randomized controlled cross-over trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				92	99		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.12.006			JAN 2025	2025	Objectives: To investigate the effects of different directions of athletic taping on neuromuscular control of the lower limb in recreational athletes with Achilles tendinopathy (AT). Design: Crossover Study. Setting: Functional assessment laboratory. Participants: Thirty recreational athletes with AT. Main outcome measures: Participants were randomly treated with anti-pronation taping, anti-supination taping, or no-taping. Under different taping conditions, neuromuscular tests were performed in random order: ankle proprioception Active Movement Extent Discrimination Assessment (AMEDA), Weight-Bearing Lunge Test (WBLT), single leg hop test, figure-of-eight hop test and Lower Extremity Functional Test (LEFT). Results: Compared with no-taping, both anti-pronation taping and anti-supination taping significantly improved AMEDA proprioception test scores (p G 0.001,eta p2= 0.466), figure-of-eight hop performance (p G 0.001,eta p2 = 0.307), unilateral LEFT scores (p G 0.001,eta p2= 0.448), and may reduce risk of lower limb injury in recreational athletes with AT (p G 0.001,eta p2= 0.432). Taping significantly reduced WBLT values (p G 0.001,eta p2= 0.259) but had no significant effect on single leg hop test scores (p = 0.139). Importantly, no difference between the two taping conditions was observed. Conclusions: Both directions of athletic taping were equally effective in improving ankle proprioception, lower extremity functional performance, and reducing the risk of injury in athletes with AT, but had no significant effect on lower limb explosive strength and were associated with significantly reduced ankle dorsiflexion.		[Zhang, Tongzhou] Shanxi Inst Sport Sci, Taiyuan 030012, Shanxi, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Yilin] Suzhou Municipal Hosp, Suzhou 215002, Peoples R China; [Adams, Roger; Witchalls, Jeremy] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra 2601, Australia; [Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, Melbourne 3800, Australia; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai 201318, Peoples R China; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai 201318, Peoples R China								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001410235100001	32	Article; Article		
J	Hunzinger, Katherine J.; Costantini, Katelyn M.; Swanik, C. Buz; Buckley, Thomas A.								Diagnosed concussion is associated with increased risk for upper extremity injury in community rugby players in males only								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	3			243	248		10.1080/00913847.2024.2445500			MAY 4 2025	2025	Objectives To cross-sectionally determine 1) the association between lifetime diagnosed concussion and upper extremity musculoskeletal injury (UE-MSI) amongst a novel cohort of community rugby union players and 2) the sex-specific risk of UE-MSI given concussion history among these rugby players. Methods A total of 1,037 (31.0% female, 31.6 + 11.3 years) rugby players completed an online survey to determine lifetime history of diagnosed concussion (yes; no) and UE-MSI (yes; no). A chi-squared test of association was performed between concussion and any UE-MSI; odds ratio risk was also determined. Analyses were repeated by sex (male; female) and with specific UE-MSI (e.g. sprains, broken bones, dislocations). Results There was a significant association between concussion and any UE-MSI for this cohort (chi(1) = 10.802, p = 0.001, OR = 1.70 [95%CI: 1.23-2.32]). There was a significant association between concussion and any UE-MSI among males for (chi(1) = 13.612, p < 0.001, OR = 2.20 [95%CI: 1.4-3.3]) but not among females (chi(1) = 0.735, p = 0.391, OR = 1.20 [95%CI: 0.8-2.0]). Conclusions Community rugby players with a history of diagnosed concussion are at 1.7x increased odds for history of any UE-MSI compared to rugby players who are concussion na & iuml;ve; sex-specific analyses revealed only increased risk among males. Sports medicine professionals and rugby stakeholders should view concussions as a risk factor and utilize established injury prevention programs to help reduce future UE-MSI in athletes.		[Hunzinger, Katherine J.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, 225E Ronson Hlth & Appl Sci Ctr,4201 Henry Ave, Philadelphia, PA 19144 USA; [Hunzinger, Katherine J.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Jefferson Ctr Injury Res & Prevent, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Costantini, Katelyn M.] Good Shepherd Penn Partners, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Swanik, C. Buz; Buckley, Thomas A.] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, DE USA; [Swanik, C. Buz; Buckley, Thomas A.] Univ Delaware, Interdisciplinary Program Biomech & Movement Sci, Newark, DE USA; [Hunzinger, Katherine J.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, 225E Ronson Hlth & Appl Sci Ctr,4201 Henry Ave, Philadelphia, PA 19144 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001387966100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Walker, Kathleen; Phillips, Nicola; Sheeran, Liba								Exploring the use of digital technology for injury prevention and self-management among recreational runners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				85	91		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.12.004			JAN 2025	2025	Objectives: Explore digital technology use among recreational runners in Wales and assess attitudes toward a proposed digital intervention for running-related injury (RRI) prevention and self-management. Design: Exploratory survey. Setting: Online questionnaire, closed questions distributed to runners over a 7 week period. Participants: Recreational runners living in Wales (N = 232). Main outcome measures: Data analysed descriptively. Inferential analysis conducted via IBM SPSS v25. Pearson's Chi square and logistic regression applied to assess effects of age, sex, and weekly mileage on technology use. Results: 97% of participants reported using digital technology to monitor training, primarily through running watches (45.1%) and smartphone apps (37.6%). Pearson's chi square indicated that younger (18-24 years) and less experienced runners (3 months-2 years) were more likely to use multiple apps. Runners felt these technologies did not offer realistic advice for RRI prevention or self-management. Most runners (84.5%) were interested in the proposed intervention. Runners wanted to see injury advice, exercises to improve running and a diagnostic feature within the proposed intervention. Conclusion: Digital technologies are widely used by recreational runners but are not perceived as useful for injury prevention/self-management. There is therefore an opportunity to develop tailored, evidence-based digital interventions for RRI prevention and self-management.		[Walker, Kathleen; Phillips, Nicola; Sheeran, Liba] Cardiff Univ, Sch Healthcare Sci, 335 Ty Dewi St, Cardiff CF14 4XN, Wales; [Walker, Kathleen] Cardiff Univ, Sch Healthcare Sci, 335 Ty Dewi St, Cardiff CF14 4XN, Wales								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001402234500001	36	Article; Article		
J	Kon, Kana; Nagano, Yasuharu; Sasaki, Shogo; Suzukawa, Makoto								Effects of early sports specialization on landing and balance ability in female college basketball players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	3			238	242		10.1080/00913847.2024.2445497			MAY 4 2025	2025	ObjectivesEarly specialization in a single sport from childhood is associated with an increased risk for acute and overuse injuries. Conversely, experience in multiple sports may be associated with improved neuromuscular control and performance. Currently, early sports specialization remains poorly researched in Japan. Therefore, this study aimed to clarify the relationship between early sports specialization and landing and balance ability in Japan.MethodsThirty-eight female college basketball players were included and divided into the early specialization and nonspecialization groups. Landing and balance ability was measured using the one-leg jump-landing test, and the Star Excursion Balance Test (SEBT) differences between the two groups were examined using unpaired t-test.ResultsResults showed no significant differences in SEBT between the two groups. In the one-leg jump-landing test, the vertical maximum ground reaction force and loading rate of the nondominant foot were significantly higher in the early specialization group than in the nonspecialization group.ConclusionThus, in female college basketball players, early specialization may affect ground reaction forces and loading rate and may be a factor in developing acute and overuse injuries.		[Kon, Kana; Suzukawa, Makoto] Yokohama Sports Med Ctr, Dept Rehabil, Kozukue-Cho 3302-5 Kohoku Ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Nagano, Yasuharu] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Sasaki, Shogo] Tokai Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Dept Competit Sports, Yokohama, Japan; [Kon, Kana] Yokohama Sports Med Ctr, Dept Rehabil, Kozukue-Cho 3302-5 Kohoku Ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001382425300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Weir, Zoe; Allen, Jade; Davidge, Holly; Hulton, Andrew; Thom, Jeanette M.; Roberts, Harry M.								Self-reported injury in ultra-endurance participants with a focus on knee injuries: An exploratory cross-sectional comparative study of running, cycling, and triathlon								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				78	84		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.12.003			JAN 2025	2025	Objectives: To investigate the frequency and location of reported injuries among ultra-endurance participants competing in different sports. Design: Cross-sectional. Method: Ultra-endurance runners, cyclists and triathletes were recruited via a social media advertisement to participate in a web-based questionnaire. The questionnaire asked for information on demographics, competition history, training characteristics, and self-reported injury. Descriptive analyses and prevalence rates were calculated to determine differences between sports. Results: Of the 258 participants (age:46 +/- 11 years; 33% female), 129 (50%) self-reported an injury within the past 12 months. Despite high frequency of reported injury, only 10% of injuries resulted in 'severe' pain and 7% resulted in stopping participation. The lower extremity, and specifically the knee, ankle and foot, were the most common injury locations. Prevalence ratios for injury over the past 12 months was similar across running, cycling, and triathlon, with no statistically significant differences. However, cyclists demonstrated a significantly higher prevalence of knee injuries since starting ultra-endurance participant compared to runners after adjusting for covariates (PR: 1.62; 95% CI: 1.15-2.28, p = 0.006). Conclusions: Ultra-endurance participants self-report a considerable number of lower extremity injuries, yet this is similar across sports, and both the level of pain and impact on performance impact is generally low.		[Weir, Zoe; Allen, Jade; Davidge, Holly; Hulton, Andrew; Roberts, Harry M.] Univ Surrey, Sch Biosci & Med, Guildford, England; [Thom, Jeanette M.] Univ Sydney, Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Roberts, Harry M.] Univ Surrey, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Discipline Nutr Exercise Chronobiol & Sleep, Guildford GU2 7XH, England								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001403346300001	31	Article; Article		
J	Bennett, Evan; Cary, Michael								The Golden Ticket: Examining the Impact of Winning the Western States Endurance Run Lottery on Subsequent Ultramarathon Performance and Travel Decisions								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	4			359	376		10.1177/15270025241308850			MAY 2025	2025	The Western States Endurance Run (WSER) is the premier 100 mile trail race in the United States. Due to requirements put in place by the United States Forest Service, there are only a limited number of participants allowed to compete in any given year. These participants are selected through a lottery for which they must first qualify by running a qualifying performance at another event. For these reasons, the WSER is a "bucket list" event for many ultramarathon runners. We exploit the randomness of the lottery to determine if winning the WSER lottery affects the training and travel behavior of lottery winners. We find that WSER lottery winners compete in more races, perform better in these races, and travel more in the short run (1-2 years). However, in the long run, lottery winners compete in fewer events, travel less, and compete in smaller events than lottery losers.		[Bennett, Evan] Univ Penn, Grad Sch Educ, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Cary, Michael] Virginia Tech, Dept Agr & Appl Econ, 250 Drillfield Dr, Blacksburg, VA 24061 USA; [Cary, Michael] Virginia Tech, Dept Agr & Appl Econ, 250 Drillfield Dr, Blacksburg, VA 24061 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001383248800001	30	Article; Article		
J	Harkness-Armstrong, Alice; Seth, Laura; Lowry, Ruth; Datson, Naomi								Applied performance analysis practices in women's football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			568	584		10.1177/17479541241301936			APR 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to investigate the applied performance analysis (PA) practices within women's football. An online survey was developed to assess PA practices (team, individual and opposition match analysis, training analysis, coach behaviour analysis, best practice analysis, talent identification and recruitment, and game insights), use of technology, and considerations for PA practices within women's football. Thirty-nine participants (female n = 13; male n = 26) responsible for delivering PA within women's football completed the online survey between January and August 2023. Participants worked across different competitive levels of women's football (international n = 11; senior domestic top tier n = 12; senior domestic second tier n = 7, senior domestic third tier and below n = 9; youth (<U23) domestic n = 10), including seven participants who worked across multiple levels of competition. Participants predominantly conducted team (100%), individual (79%) and opposition (84%) match analysis, and training analysis (74%). Data collection and analysis, feedback mechanisms, and application of insights gained from PA practices typically varied across competitive standards. A wide variety of software were reported for data collection (e.g. HUDL, Veo), storing and managing data and/or video (e.g. HUDL, Veo), conducting statistical analysis (e.g. Microsoft Excel, R), and providing feedback (e.g. Microsoft PowerPoint, HUDL) across competitive standards. Thirty-one respondents identified specific considerations or challenges faced when implementing PA (e.g. limited resources (42%), data availability (19%), facilities (19%)). The findings of this survey can be used to inform and develop applied PA practices in women's football, education, and development opportunities for current and aspiring performance analysts.		[Harkness-Armstrong, Alice; Lowry, Ruth] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, England; [Seth, Laura] Football Assoc, Burton Upon Trent, England; [Lowry, Ruth] Univ Ulster, Sch Psychol, Coleraine, North Ireland; [Datson, Naomi] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Inst Sport, Manchester, England; [Harkness-Armstrong, Alice] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001390412500001	51	Article; Article		
J	Brown, James; Fuller, Gordon Ward; Mcdonald, Warren; Rasmussen, Karen; Sawczuk, Thomas; Gilthorpe, Mark; Jones, Ben; Falvey, eanna Cian								Assessment of an eye-tracking tool to discriminate between concussed and not concussed professional male rugby players: a cohort study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	3			212	219		10.1080/00913847.2024.2442294			MAY 4 2025	2025	ObjectivesConcussion is a common injury in rugby union ('rugby') and yet its diagnosis is reliant on clinical judgment. Oculomotor testing could provide an objective measure to assist with concussion diagnosis. NeuroFlex (R) evaluates oculomotor function using a virtual-reality headset. This study examined differences in NeuroFlex (R) performance in clinician-diagnosed concussed and not concussed elite male rugby players over three seasons.MethodsNeuroFlex (R) testing was completed alongside 140 head injury assessments (HIAs) in 122 players. The HIA is used for suspected concussion events. Of these 140 HIAs, 100 were eventually diagnosed as concussed, 38 were not concussed (2 were unclear) Eight of the 61 NeuroFlex (R) metrics were analysed as they were comparable at all time points. These eight metrics, from three oculomotor domains (vestibulo-ocular reflex, smooth pursuit and saccades), were tested for their ability to distinguish between concussed and not concussed players using mean difference / odds ratios and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CI's). General and generalised linear mixed models, accounting for baseline test performance, were used to determine any meaningful differences in concussed and not concussed players. The diagnostic accuracy of these differences was provided by the area under the receiver operating curve (AUC).ResultsOnly one of the eight metrics (number of saccades, smooth pursuit domain) had clear differences in performance between concussed and not concussed players at the HIA during the match (odds ratio: 0.76, 95%CI: 0.54-0.98) and after 48 hours (0.74, 95%CI: 0.52-0.96). However, the direction of this difference was contrary to clinical expectations (concussed performed better than not concussed) and the AUC for this outcome was also poor (0.52).ConclusionNeuroFlex (R) was unable to distinguish between concussed and not concussed players in this elite male cohort. Future research could study other cohorts, later time points before return to play, and the tool's role in rehabilitation.		[Brown, James; Sawczuk, Thomas; Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds LS6 3QQ, England; [Brown, James] Stellenbosch Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Med ISEM, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Brown, James] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Physiol Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Brown, James] Sports Sci Inst South Africa, Cape Town, South Africa; [Fuller, Gordon Ward] Univ Sheffield, Sch Med & Populat Hlth, Populat Hlth, Sheffield, England; Rugby Australia, Med Dept, Canberra, Australia; [Rasmussen, Karen] New Zealand Rugby Union, Med Dept, Wellington, New Zealand; [Gilthorpe, Mark] Leeds Beckett Univ, Obes Inst, Leeds, England; [Gilthorpe, Mark] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ Cape Town, Lifestyle & Sport Res Ctr, Dept Human Biol, Div Physiol Sci & Hlth Phys Act,Fac Hlth Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben] Australian Catholic Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Manchester, England; [Jones, Ben] Premiership Rugby, Rugby Dept, London, England; [Falvey, eanna Cian] World Rugby, Med Dept, Dublin, Ireland; [Falvey, eanna Cian] Univ Coll Cork, Coll Med & Hlth, Cork, Ireland; [Brown, James] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds LS6 3QQ, England								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001382085400001	16	Article; Article		
J	Thomas, Jessica; Tomlinson, Owen; Williams, Genevieve; Bond, Bert								Exploring concussion prevalence, knowledge and reporting behaviours in women playing rugby union in the United Kingdom								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	2			169	177		10.1080/00913847.2024.2439239			MAR 4 2025	2025	ObjectivesThe aim of this study was to capture information regarding concussion prevalence, knowledge, and reporting behaviors in women rugby players across all competitive levels in the UK. We also investigated whether these outcomes were influenced by the prevailing concussion awareness programme (HEADCASE).MeasuresTwo hundred and thirty players from elite (Premiership), Championship, British Universities, and College Sport and club level completed (n = 133) or partially completed (n = 97) a mixed-methods online questionnaire.ResultsOver a mean period of 8 years, 159 players (74%) experienced at least one suspected or diagnosed rugby-related concussion. In total, 408 rugby-related concussions were reported in these players during this time. Prevalence of concussion did not differ across playing level or position. Being tackled was the most common cause of rugby-related concussions, and the act of tackling another player was second. Players across all levels demonstrated good knowledge of concussion symptoms, but only 12% identified that concussion can occur without direct impact to the head. One hundred and forty-six players completed the HEADCASE training (mandatory for Premiership players). Forty-one percent of players admitted to deliberately failing to report a suspected rugby concussion, and this behavior was not influenced by HEADCASE training. These individuals were more likely to avoid reporting a suspected concussion during an important (e.g. semifinal or final) than unimportant (e.g. training) scenario. Those who underwent the graduated return to play pathway (n = 41) were significantly more likely to have completed HEADCASE training.ConclusionThe prevalence of concussion in women's rugby union is high but does not differ by playing level or position. All players had a good knowledge of concussion symptoms, but many were unaware that concussions may occur without direct impact to the head. Almost half of all players admitted to deliberately failing to report a suspected concussion, and this was not significantly influenced by the completion of HEADCASE training.		[Thomas, Jessica; Williams, Genevieve; Bond, Bert] Univ Exeter, Exeter Head Impacts Brain Injury & Trauma ExHIBIT, Publ Hlth & Sport Sci, St Lukes Campus,Heavitree Rd, Exeter EX1 2LU, England; [Tomlinson, Owen] Univ Exeter, Exeter Med Sch, Dept Clin & Biomed Sci, Exeter, England; [Bond, Bert] Univ Exeter, Exeter Head Impacts Brain Injury & Trauma ExHIBIT, Publ Hlth & Sport Sci, St Lukes Campus,Heavitree Rd, Exeter EX1 2LU, England								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001380166000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Chen								Eight weeks of plyometric training improved the change of direction abilities of adolescent basketball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			679	687		10.1177/17479541241304098			APR 2025	2025	The effectiveness of plyometric training in adolescent basketball players has not been fully elaborated, especially its effect on enhancing change of direction abilities. Thirty male adolescent basketball players were divided into plyometric and resistance training groups for an 8-week training period. The improvement in change of direction abilities before and after the training was assessed using the Lane Agility Drill test. Motion capture system, force platforms, and electromyography were utilized to investigate the characteristics of lower limb kinematic and kinetic features before and after training. At post-test, the Lane Agility Drill finish time for the plyometric group was significantly less than that of the resistance training group (P < 0.05, Cohen's d = 0.551), and the post-test Lane Agility Drill finish time for the plyometric group was significantly less than their pre-test time (P < 0.05, Cohen's d = 0.746). At post-test, the plyometric training group showed greater increases in peak impulse (P < 0.05, Cohen's d = 0.464), peak power (P < 0.05, Cohen's d = 0.684) compared to resistance training group. The study's conclusion indicates that compared to resistance training, plyometric training more significantly enhances athletes' change of direction abilities. This improvement is attributed to the superior transfer of strength and explosive power gains acquired during training. Additionally, plyometric training optimizes energy utilization and production during jumping and running.		[Yang, Chen] Shandong Sport Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth, 10600 Century Ave, Jinan 250100, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Yang, Chen] Qufu Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Qufu, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Yang, Chen] Shandong Sport Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth, 10600 Century Ave, Jinan 250100, Shandong, Peoples R China								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001381708300001	39	Article; Article		
J	Lo, Li-Chuan; Hatfield, Bradley D.; Janjigian, Kiersten; Wang, Yung-Shun; Fong, Dong-Yang; Hung, Tsung-Min								The Effect of Left Temporal EEG Neurofeedback Training on Cerebral Cortical Activity and Precision Cognitive-Motor Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			486	496		10.1080/02701367.2024.2441149			JUL 3 2025	2025	Objectives: The present study employed individualized magnitudes of electroencephalographic (EEG) alpha (8-12 hz) power in the left temporal (T3) region as a neurofeedback target parameter during the aiming period in pre-elite air pistol shooters to determine its effectiveness on cerebral cortical activation and performance accuracy compared to physical skill training, only. Method: Shooting scores and EEG activity in the left and right temporal regions were collected from 20 healthy air pistol shooters (10 assigned to neurofeedback training) before and after a 16-session intervention completed within 6 weeks. Specifically, EEG low-alpha (8-10 hz), high-alpha (10-13 hz) power, and coherence obtained at the T3-Fz and T4-Fz recording sites over three consecutive 1-s intervals prior to trigger pull, were subjected to three separate 2 x 2 x 2 x 3 (Group x Hemisphere x Time x Epoch) ANOVAs. Results: The neurofeedback group exhibited elevated low- and high-alpha EEG power across both temporal regions, but no differences in EEG broad-band alpha coherence, accompanied by enhanced performance after the intervention compared to the control group. Conclusions: The findings support the influence of neurofeedback training on cerebral cortical arousal and performance of a precision-aiming task, however, the influence of the neurofeedback on brain dynamics (i.e. alpha power) extended beyond the targeted region as a nonspecific manifestation of cerebral cortical inhibition leading to neural efficiency at the homologous sites.		[Lo, Li-Chuan; Hatfield, Bradley D.; Janjigian, Kiersten] Univ Maryland College Park, College Pk, MD USA; [Wang, Yung-Shun] Chang Gung Univ, Taoyuan City, Taiwan; [Fong, Dong-Yang; Hung, Tsung-Min] Natl Kaohsiung Normal Univ, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Janjigian, Kiersten] Univ Maryland College Pk, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Kinesiol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001379743200001	32	Article; Article		
J	Gawrys, Steven P.; Wilson, Holly; Matthias, Alexander K.; Roush, Andrew J.; Vandemerwe, David C.; Parker, Lawsen; Starr, Evan G.; Wong, Westin J.; Enslow, Ryan; Wilde, Ben; Zapata, Isain; Pickett, Brent								Stretch & exercise education improves pain levels in under-resourced collegiate club lacrosse players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	3			230	237		10.1080/00913847.2024.2443389			MAY 4 2025	2025	PurposeClub sports are competitive, intercollegiate athletics that are not affiliated with the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). Club athletes may be at increased risk of injury compared to their NCAA counterparts due to limited resources, such as reduced access to strength and conditioning coaches and athletic trainers. Research has shown that injury-prevention education, as typically provided by coaches and trainers, can reduce injury rates and promote athlete compliance with safety practices.ObjectiveThis prospective cohort study investigates the impact of educational interventions on pain levels and injury rates in club collegiate men's lacrosse athletes.DesignInvestigators conducted an educational session on injury prevention, which included instruction on stretches and exercises. The treatment group included 66 athletes, while 46 athletes served as the control group.ResultsPain levels significantly decreased by 1.549 (out of a self-reported scale of 10) (35.11%) (p = 0.0001). Although the average number of practices and games missed due to injury decreased by 0.579 in the treatment group compared to the control, this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.5970).ConclusionEducational interventions focused on injury-prevention stretches and exercises appear to be effective in reducing pain among club athletes. While the reduction in missed practices and games was not statistically significant, these findings suggest that such educational programs may help mitigate injuries in under-resourced athletes. Further exploration of strategies to enhance these interventions and decrease injuries among club athletes is warranted.		[Gawrys, Steven P.] Univ Florida, Community Hlth & Family Med, 1707 N Main St, Gainesville, FL 32609 USA; [Wilson, Holly; Matthias, Alexander K.; Roush, Andrew J.; Vandemerwe, David C.; Parker, Lawsen; Wong, Westin J.; Wilde, Ben; Zapata, Isain] Rocky Vista Univ, Coll Osteopath Med, Ivins, UT USA; [Starr, Evan G.] Mayo Clin, Dept Family Med, Rochester, MN USA; [Wong, Westin J.; Enslow, Ryan] Ohio State Univ, Wexner Med Ctr, Dept Neuroplast Surg, Columbus, OH USA; [Enslow, Ryan; Pickett, Brent] Budge Clin, Budge Clin Orthoped, Sports Med, Logan, UT USA; [Gawrys, Steven P.] Univ Florida, Community Hlth & Family Med, 1707 N Main St, Gainesville, FL 32609 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001379669000001	19	Article; Article		
J	Elnemer, William; Elsabbagh, Zaid; Cartagena-Reyes, Miguel A.; Nazario-Ferrer, Gabriel; Park, Sangjun; Mikula, Jacob D.; Jain, Amit; Best, Matthew J.								Impact of anterior cruciate ligament tears on player efficiency ratings and salary in National Basketball Association over the past 20 years: a retrospective case control study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	3			203	211		10.1080/00913847.2024.2441108			MAY 4 2025	2025	Objectives: Players in the National Basketball Association (NBA) are at high risk for ACL tears which are detrimental to their career due to the months of rehabilitation. The authors hypothesize that after anterior crucial ligament (ACL) injury, older players will be less likely to return to the NBA, players that do return will have a lower performance efficiency rating (PER), and the decrease in PER will be associated with a lower salary. Methods: This case-control study utilized the publicly available database maintained by the NBA, professional basketball players from 2002 to 2022 who suffered an ACL tear were identified. Controls, without ACL tears, were matched by age, BMI, position, race, and average minutes played before the injury date to uninjured controls. Return to NBA, pre-injury and post-return player efficiency ratings (PER), and salary change after injury were analyzed by multivariate analyses. Results: A total of 67 players suffered an ACL tear. Fifty-six (83.6%) players returned to the NBA at some point after their injury, while 11 (16.4%) did not. Multivariate logistic regression showed that older age and the presence of multi-ligament injury predicted retiring from the NBA (beta = 1.4 and 10.7). Older age and greater minutes played before surgery to be the only significant predictors of decreased PER after return to the NBA (beta = -0.5 and -0.2). Players with a multiyear contract and with improvements in PER after injury tended to have greater salary increases (beta = 6.5 and 0.7). All p < 0.05. PER in players with ACL tears decreased by about 3 points (13.1 to 9.9) compared to controls without ACL tears (13.2 to 12.9). Conclusion: Older age and multiligament injuries are associated with retiring for the NBA; older and increased minutes played are associated with a decreased PER upon return; and, PER decreases are associated with decreased salary. Players with ACL tears, even when case-control matched, showed decreased PER upon return. These results can be attributed to age-related changes in athleticism and health.		[Elnemer, William; Elsabbagh, Zaid] Johns Hopkins Univ, Sch Med, 21 N Ann St, Baltimore, MD 77433 USA; [Cartagena-Reyes, Miguel A.; Nazario-Ferrer, Gabriel; Park, Sangjun; Mikula, Jacob D.; Jain, Amit; Best, Matthew J.] Johns Hopkins Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Baltimore, MD USA; [Elnemer, William] Johns Hopkins Univ, Sch Med, 21 N Ann St, Baltimore, MD 77433 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001381101600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Schulz, Jenna M.; Hewitt, Chloe M.; Stellingwerff, Trent; Stellingwerff, Hilary; Ackerman, Kathryn E.; Thornton, Jane S.								Mapping the gap: A study on the confidence in knowledge and reporting of relative energy deficiency in sport (REDs) in Canadian University cross-country coaches and athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			455	466		10.1177/17479541241305389			APR 2025	2025	Background/Objective: To assess athletes' and coaches' confidence in knowledge and recognition of Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (REDs) before and after an education session at the Canadian University Sports (U SPORTS) National Cross-Country Championships (UXC). Methods: We hosted an education session and panel discussion surrounding causes and risk factors, health and performance outcomes, prevention, as well as personal experiences the day before UXC. A cross-sectional in-person survey (39 pre- and 29 post-session questions) was implemented around the session. Sixty-eight athletes (85% ages 19-24y, 73.5% women) and 20 coaches (30% > 50y, 35% women) completed the survey. Results: Pre-panel, 80% of coaches and 59% of athletes were able to correctly identify the underlying cause of REDs (low energy availability). However, only 50% of coaches and 13% of athletes were completely confident in their answers. The most common correctly identified symptoms were fatigue (coaches = 40%, athletes = 53%) and amenorrhoea (coaches = 30%, athletes = 57%). However, only 20% of coaches and 7% of athletes were completely confident in their answers. After the panel, confidence levels of coaches in identifying signs/symptoms did not change (p = 0.52; complete confidence = 20%), but significantly improved in athletes (p < 0.001; complete confidence = 32%). Low libido was a commonly identified learned symptom. Conclusion: An education session and panel discussion surrounding REDs significantly increased the confidence in REDs knowledge among UXC athletes, but not among coaches. Further exploration of REDs knowledge dissemination strategies, that should be different for athletes versus coaches, is needed to improve awareness of REDs.		[Schulz, Jenna M.; Thornton, Jane S.] Western Univ, Schulich Sch Med & Dent, Dept Family Med, London, ON, Canada; [Schulz, Jenna M.; Thornton, Jane S.] Western Univ, Fowler Kennedy Sport Med Clin, London, ON, Canada; [Hewitt, Chloe M.] Western Univ, Schulich Sch Med & Dent, Dept Epidemiol & Biostat, London, ON, Canada; [Stellingwerff, Trent] Canadian Sport Inst Pacific, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Stellingwerff, Trent; Stellingwerff, Hilary] Univ Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Ackerman, Kathryn E.] Harvard Univ, Boston Childrens Hosp, Wu Tsai Female Athlete Program, Boston, MA USA; [Schulz, Jenna M.] Western Univ, Schulich Sch Med & Dent, Dept Family Med, London, ON, Canada; [Schulz, Jenna M.] Western Univ, Fowler Kennedy Sport Med Clin, London, ON, Canada								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001381284600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Tetreault, Emie; Fortin-Guichard, Daniel; Grondin, Simon								Contribution of psychological characteristics to talent identification in ice-hockey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			724	741		10.1177/17479541241304360			APR 2025	2025	Talent identification and selection are crucial for the success of elite sport organizations. Scouts and managers generally select the most promising young athletes based on their current performances, physiological characteristics, and gut feelings. However, psychological characteristics (including perceptual-cognitive and self-regulation abilities) might still be overlooked by selectors. This study aimed at verifying the relationship between psychological characteristics and performance in elite ice-hockey. Eighty-eight youth elite ice-hockey players (forwards and defensemen) eligible for a Major Junior selection draft participated in the study. They were measured at 15 years old on perceptual-cognitive skills (decision-making and anticipation with eye-tracking at a temporal occlusion task) and self-regulated learning abilities (self-reported questionnaire). In addition, their current (draft rank and scouts' subjective appreciation) and future (points, games played, differential for the following four years) performances were recorded. Multiple linear regression models showed that the scouts' subjective appreciation was the best predictor of current and future performance. However, when scouts' appreciation is removed from the models or when positions are analyzed separately, self-regulated learning abilities (effort, planning and reflection subscales) and decision-making could add to the prediction. Overall, this study shows that psychological characteristics could help scouts in the talent identification and selection process, but measuring these characteristics cannot replace their judgment.		[Tetreault, Emie; Fortin-Guichard, Daniel; Grondin, Simon] Univ Laval, Ecole psychol, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Fortin-Guichard, Daniel] Univ Toronto, Tanenbaum Inst Sci Sport, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Fortin-Guichard, Daniel] McGill Univ, Sylvan Adams Sports Sci Inst, Dept Kinesiol &Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Fortin-Guichard, Daniel] Univ Laval, Ecole psychol, Quebec City, PQ, Canada								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001380131300001	67	Article; Article		
J	Lerche, Mads; Borup, Anders; Callaghan, Samuel J.; Buckthorpe, Matthew								Adaptations to Change of Direction Ability After Eight Weeks of Strength or Plyometric Training in Elite Youth Football Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			447	454		10.1080/02701367.2024.2433454			JUL 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate the effects of plyometric (PT) or strength (ST) training on change of direction (COD) performance at two differing angles among highly trained youth footballers. Seventy-one national-level youth football players (14.6 +/- 1.8 years) were randomly allocated to either an 8-week, twice weekly, plyometric (PT) or strength training (ST) group. Pre- and post-intervention testing consisted of measures of COD performance at 45 and 180 degrees, as well as maximal strength assessed via Trap Bar Deadlift 5RM (TBD5RM) and reactive strength index (RSI) from a 40 cm drop jump, respectively. Changes from pre- to post-testing were assessed via mixed ANOVAs (p <= .05) and effect sizes. Both training groups improved TBD5RM (PT = 7.8%, p < .001, ES = 0.32. ST = 6.9%, p < .001, ES = 0.28) and RSI (PT = 15.9%, p < .001, ES = 0.59. ST = 15.6%, p < .001, ES = 0.64) measures. Significant improvement in 45 degrees COD performance was found for both training groups (PT = 4.0%, p < .001, ES = -0.68. ST = 3.6%, p < .001, ES = -0.61), whilst neither group improved at 180 degrees (PT = 0.8%, p = .192, ES = -0.17. ST = 0.8%, p = .282, ES = -0.23). No significant differences in changes were found between training groups. Both PT and ST were effective at enhancing maximal and explosive strength as well as COD performance measured at shallow angles. Neither method enhanced the sharp angle COD performance.		[Lerche, Mads; Callaghan, Samuel J.; Buckthorpe, Matthew] St Marys Univ, London, England; [Lerche, Mads; Borup, Anders] Aalborg BK, Aalborg, Denmark; [Buckthorpe, Matthew] FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Dubai, U Arab Emirates; [Buckthorpe, Matthew] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Technol & Hlth Sci, London, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001379936600001	63	Article; Article		
J	Flores, Thayna Ramos; Leao, Otavio Amaral de Andrade; Wendt, Andrea; Crochemore-Silva, Inacio; Mielke, Gregore Iven; Domingues, Marlos Rodrigues; Hallal, Pedro C.; da Silveira, Mariangela Freitas								Physical Activity and Weight Gain During Pregnancy: Is This Association Modified by Sleep?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			439	446		10.1080/02701367.2024.2424210			APR 3 2025	2025	Objective To evaluate the cross-sectional association of physical activity during pregnancy with gestational weight gain and verify if associations are modified by levels of sleep duration and efficiency. Methods: Mothers who were participants of the 2015 Pelotas (Brazil) Birth Cohort study were analyzed. Physical activity (PA) and sleep were measured using the nondominant wrist accelerometer model wGT3X-BT (ActiGraph, Pensacola, FL). Moderate-to-vigorous activities were measured in bouts of 5 minutes (MVPA 5-min bout). Activities were characterized as sustained and overall physical activity was expressed in mg, and MVPA (non-bouted) activities were characterized as not sustained. Sleep was presented as minute bouts, sleep time window, total sleep time, and sleep efficiency. Gestational weight gain (GWG) was calculated by a woman's weight at the end of gestation minus the pre-pregnancy weight. Linear regression models were used to evaluate the association between PA and GWG. Stratification by sleep characteristics in tertiles was performed. Results: The analytical sample included 1,938 women with information for PA, sleep, and GWG. The mean GWG was 12,030 g (SD = 6658.8). After adjustments, for every 15 minutes of sustained physical activity (MVPA 5-min bout), the GWG decreased by 591.3 g [beta= -591.3 (95%CI: -1,147.1; -35.5). A statistically significant association was observed between 15 minutes of sustained physical activity (MVPA 5-min bout) and GWG in the second and third tertiles of healthier sleep efficiency. Conclusion: MVPA with 5-min bouts is associated with lower GWG. The GWG reduction was greater in the higher sleep efficiency strata.		[Flores, Thayna Ramos; Crochemore-Silva, Inacio; Domingues, Marlos Rodrigues; da Silveira, Mariangela Freitas] Univ Fed Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil; [Leao, Otavio Amaral de Andrade; Hallal, Pedro C.] Univ Illinois, Champaign, IL USA; [Wendt, Andrea] Pontificia Univ Catolica Parana, Curitiba, Brazil; [Mielke, Gregore Iven] Univ Queensland, Brisbane, Australia; [Flores, Thayna Ramos] Univ Fed Pelotas, Postgrad Program Epidemiol, Marechal Deodoro 1160, 3 Floor, BR-96020220 Pelotas, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001378957000001	40	Article; Article		
J	Lucas, Gabriela Chaves; Sa, Soraya Anita Mendes; Pinheiro, Bruno Nobre; Godinho, Ismael; Casanova, Filipe; Reis, Victor Machado; Garrido, Nuno; Vilaca-Alves, Jose								Comparison between Warm-Up Protocols in Post-Activation Potentiation Enhancement (PAPE) of Sprint and Vertical Jump Performance in a Female Futsal Team								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	3			455	462		10.1080/02701367.2024.2434142			JUL 3 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to examine the influence of three warm-up protocols, with and without post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE), on sprint and vertical jump performance in female athletes. Twenty-five university futsal athletes were randomly assigned to three protocols: i) Traditional Warm-Up (TWU), involving cardiovascular, coordination exercises, and dynamic stretching; ii) Drop Jump Warm-Up (DJWU), consisting of drop jumps from heights of 30 and 40 cm; and iii) Maximum Isometric Warm-Up (MIWU), with high-intensity isometric contractions held for 10 seconds in a squat position at approximately 130-135 degrees of knee flexion. Tests included the countermovement vertical jump (CMVJ) and a 20-meter sprint (S20). The CMVJ showed a significant increase across all three groups (F(1,72) = 125.312; p < .0001; eta p(2) = 0.635), while S20 displayed a significant time reduction only for MIWU (p = .002). Although no significant differences were found between groups, individual analysis revealed significant CMVJ differences for TWU, DJWU, and MIWU (p < .0001). We conclude that PAPE effectiveness varies according to protocol and individual athlete characteristics; however, maximum isometric exercises appear to have a more pronounced effect on PAPE production in sprint performance.		[Lucas, Gabriela Chaves; Godinho, Ismael; Reis, Victor Machado; Garrido, Nuno; Vilaca-Alves, Jose] Univ Tras os Montes & Alto Douro, Vila Real, Portugal; [Lucas, Gabriela Chaves; Reis, Victor Machado; Garrido, Nuno; Vilaca-Alves, Jose] Ctr Res Sport Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Lucas, Gabriela Chaves; Pinheiro, Bruno Nobre; Godinho, Ismael; Reis, Victor Machado; Garrido, Nuno; Vilaca-Alves, Jose] Res Grp Strength Training & Fitness Act GEETFAA, Vila Real, Portugal; [Sa, Soraya Anita Mendes] Univ Estadual Ceara, Fortaleza, Brazil; [Pinheiro, Bruno Nobre] Univ Ctr UNIFAMETRO, Fortaleza, Brazil; [Casanova, Filipe] Lusofona Univ, Lisbon, Portugal; [Casanova, Filipe] Lusofona Univ, Res Ctr Sports Phys Educ Exercise & Hlth Porto CID, Campo Grande 376, P-1749024 Lisbon, Portugal								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001379974100001	43	Article; Article		
J	Daniel, Natalia Vilela Silva; da Cunha, Diogo Thimoteo; Belli, Taisa; Esteves, Andrea Maculano								Cross-cultural adaptation and validation of the nutrition knowledge questionnaire for ultra-endurance athletes (ULTRA-Q) for Brazil								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	2			178	184		10.1080/00913847.2024.2439243			MAR 4 2025	2025	AimsThis study aimed to perform a cross-cultural adaptation and validate a questionnaire to assess the nutrition knowledge of Brazilian ultra-endurance athletes.MethodsThis is an observational and cross-sectional study, which adapted and validated the Nutritional Knowledge Questionnaire for Ultra-endurance Athletes (ULTRA-Q). ULTRA-Q was translated into Portuguese, and then the translated version was assessed for semantic, idiomatic, cultural and conceptual equivalence by six specialist nutritionists. In addition to suggesting adaptations to the questionnaire, the experts evaluated the clarity and relevance of the items, calculating the Content Validity Coefficient (CVC). The adapted version was applied to 46 ultra-endurance athletes to evaluate reproducibility and validity. After the test-retest, the instrument was also answered by 54 nutritionists, to evaluate the construct validity of the questionnaire.ResultsThe Brazilian version (ULTRA-QBR) of the questionnaire for ultra-endurance athletes had adequate CVC for clarity (0.97) and pertinence (0.95), and presented adequate discriminant validity. The data from the intraclass correlation coefficient indicates good reproducibility of the questionnaire, and the difference observed between athletes and nutritionists reinforces the evidence of the questionnaire's construct validity.ConclusionThe results demonstrate content, construct and discriminant validity, test-retest reproducibility, and internal consistency of the ULTRA-QBR. We concluded that this questionnaire can be used as an interesting tool in research and clinical practice in ultra-endurance sports.		[Daniel, Natalia Vilela Silva; da Cunha, Diogo Thimoteo; Esteves, Andrea Maculano] Univ Estadual Campinas FCA UNICAMP, Fac Ciencias Aplicadas, Rua Pedro Zaccaria 1300, BR-13484350 Limeira, SP, Brazil; [Belli, Taisa] Univ Estadual Campinas FEF UNICAMP, Fac Educ Fis, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Esteves, Andrea Maculano] Univ Estadual Campinas FCA UNICAMP, Fac Ciencias Aplicadas, Rua Pedro Zaccaria 1300, BR-13484350 Limeira, SP, Brazil								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001378994900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Georgieva, Julia; Peek, Kerry; Smith, Anne; Lavender, Andrew P.; Serner, Andreas; Arnold, Eloise J.; Fitzgerald, Melinda; Ma'ayah, Fadi; Campbell, Amity								Heading performance outcomes at the FIFA Women's World Cup France 2019™								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			585	595		10.1177/17479541241298757			APR 2025	2025	This study evaluated the performance outcomes of headers during the FIFA Women's World Cup France 2019 (TM). Video analysis was used to code performance outcomes of headers (uncontested and contested) and their descriptors (e.g., playing position, match situation, field location, and the distance the ball travelled). Descriptive statistics, and odds ratios (ORs) (odds of a successful outcome) are reported for headers based on their descriptors. Less than half of all headers resulted in a successful outcome, with headers observed to result in a turnover of possession 53% of the time (uncontested: 51%, contested: 57%). Headed goal conversion rates ranged from 0-38% across countries/teams (mean: 13%), with variability in the frequency of headed shots (range n = 1-22). Headed shots were most efficient from free kicks with 24% of shots resulting in a goal. Odds of a successful heading outcome was lowest from long balls (>20 m) in all areas of the pitch. Uncontested headers had greater odds of a successful heading outcome than contested headers from corner kicks (OR: 2.33, p = 0.004) and free play (OR: 1.30, p = 0.001), but had lower odds of success from goal kicks (OR: 0.62, p = 0.017). Central defensive midfielders (OR: 1.45, p = 0.002) and centrebacks (OR: 1.25, p = <0.001) had significantly greater odds of successful heading outcomes, and strikers (uncontested) (OR: 0.82, p = 0.043) and wingers (contested) (OR: 0.72, p = 0.041) had the lowest. The findings of the current study suggest that heading commonly results in lost possession, particularly from long balls. These findings may help to guide future heading coaching frameworks.		[Georgieva, Julia; Smith, Anne; Arnold, Eloise J.; Campbell, Amity] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, Perth, WA 6102, Australia; [Georgieva, Julia; Peek, Kerry] Univ Sydney, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Camperdown, NSW, Australia; [Smith, Anne; Campbell, Amity] Curtin Univ, enAble Inst Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Lavender, Andrew P.] Federat Univ Australia, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Serner, Andreas] Federat Internatl Football Assoc, FIFA Med, Zurich, Switzerland; [Fitzgerald, Melinda] Perron Inst Neurol & Translat Sci, Nedlands, WA, Australia; [Fitzgerald, Melinda] Curtin Univ, Curtin Hlth Innovat Res Inst, Perth, WA, Australia; [Ma'ayah, Fadi] Curtin Univ, Sch Educ, Perth, WA, Australia; [Georgieva, Julia] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, Perth, WA 6102, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001380643500001	40	Article; Article		
J	Pinedo-Jauregi, Aitor; Romarate, Ander								Assessing ambient temperature measurements in road cycling races								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			742	747		10.1177/17479541241308504			APR 2025	2025	The impact of heat stress on sports performance is a highly relevant topic. Environmental factors, such as temperature and humidity, play a significant role in determining athletic performance. Cycling computers are commonly used in road cycling to capture various data, including temperature. However, it is crucial to emphasize the importance of accurately measuring ambient temperature. This study aimed to assess the reliability and validity of the Garmin Edge 830 cycling computers in measuring ambient temperature during road cycling competitions. We analyzed temperature data collected by 12 different cycling computers. We focused on assessing these devices' reliability and validity compared to measurements obtained from an official meteorological station. The interclass correlation coefficient between the devices was 0.468 (95% CI: 0.254 to 0.626; p < 0.001). The temperature readings exhibited a significant variability across the different devices. Furthermore, when comparing the data with the readings from the meteorological station, there was no agreement, as indicated by a Lin's Concordance Coefficient (LCC) of 0.398 and a Mean Absolute Percent Error (MAPE) of 8.87%. This research raises concerns regarding the reliability and validity of cycling computer devices for measuring ambient temperature.		[Pinedo-Jauregi, Aitor] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Soc Sports & Exercise Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Spain; [Pinedo-Jauregi, Aitor] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, AKTIBOki Res Grp Phys Act Phys Exercise & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Pinedo-Jauregi, Aitor] Bioaraba Phys Act Exercise & Hlth Grp, Vitoria, Spain; [Pinedo-Jauregi, Aitor; Romarate, Ander] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Portal de Lasarte,71, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Romarate, Ander] Emen4sport, Performance Hlth Sport, Leioa, Spain; [Pinedo-Jauregi, Aitor] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Portal de Lasarte,71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001380647500001	16	Article; Article		
J	Roman, Pedro angel Latorre; Montilla, Juan Antonio Parraga; Linares, Jose Carlos Cabrera; Lucas, Juan Miguel Ramirez								Examining soccer skill performance using a dual task paradigm								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			617	627		10.1177/17479541241307244			APR 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the reliability and validity of a holistic test (Soccer Skills and Cognitive Aptitude Test [SoSCAT]) that assesses soccer skills and performance in a dual-task (DT) context. A total of 73 male soccer players aged 12-18 years joined in this study. They were playing in three official Spanish regional leagues, and were divided according to their age into under 14 (U14, n = 25), under 16 (U16, n = 26), and under 18 (U18, n = 22). Additionally, players were categorized dichotomously into high-talented (n = 20) and lower-talented (n = 53) groups. Several soccer-skill and cognitive tests were evaluated. Regarding absolute reliability, the standard error of measurement (SEM) was 2.27 (5.30%) and the minimal detectable change (MDC) was 4.17 (9.75%). In relative reliability, the intra-class correlation coefficient was 0.908 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.826-0.951, p < 0.001). By category, the U18 group showed a higher performance in SoSCAT (p < 0.001) than U16 and U14. In addition, the DT cost (DTC) and Delta Time were the lowest in the U18 group (p = 0.041). Moreover, the high-talent group showed the best performance in SoSCAT (p = 0.001), DTC (p < 0.001), and in Delta Time (p < 0.001). To sum, the SoSCAT is a reliable tool for use under the DT context and it discriminates between levels of players and determines several variables that are relevant to soccer performance and that could help to early identify soccer talent.		[Roman, Pedro angel Latorre; Montilla, Juan Antonio Parraga; Linares, Jose Carlos Cabrera; Lucas, Juan Miguel Ramirez] Univ Jaen, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Jaen, Spain; [Linares, Jose Carlos Cabrera] Univ Jaen, Fac Humanities & Educ Sci, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Jaen 23071, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001380645700001	53	Article; Article		
J	Hamer, Jennifer; Desbrow, Ben; Irwin, Chris; Shaw, Greg; Disher, Ali; Alexiou, Helen								Evaluating the impact of a coach educational intervention on relative energy deficiency in sport: A pilot study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			774	787		10.1177/17479541241304053			APR 2025	2025	Athletes undertaking large training volumes are often exposed to periods of low energy availability (LEA) and consequently are at risk of developing Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (REDs). Swim coaches play a key role in moderating this risk in developing swimmers. This study aimed to evaluate swimming coaches' perceptions of LEA/REDs education intervention developed using the Public Health Nutrition Bicycle Framework and underpinned by the professional tools of problem analysis, system mapping and training development. Data was collected in two phases: 1) an immediate post-workshop evaluation survey (process evaluation), and 2) a delayed (6 weeks) post workshop informal roundtable (impact/outcome evaluation). The process evaluation was conducted inductively using three questions (a mix of categorical and open-ended questions). The impact/outcome evaluation was deductive, with the Capability, Opportunity and Motivation Model of Behaviour Change (COM-B) used to evaluate coaches' likelihood of implementing new learnings after attending the workshop. Twenty-one coaches attended the workshop, and fourteen completed the post workshop survey. The process evaluation findings indicated that coaches found numerous aspects of the workshop valuable, including the case study approach, resources for consolidation of learning and discussions around the challenges they may experience when managing athletes at risk. The impact/outcome evaluation identified eleven facilitatory and four inhibitory themes based on the COM-B model. Coaches reported an enhanced understanding and knowledge of REDs but lacked the physical and psychological capability to apply new knowledge and/or desired behaviours in practice. The integration of applied frameworks and research and development specialists in coach education may be important when addressing sensitive and complex topics in sport to support the effective dissemination of knowledge into applied contexts. This requires effective partnerships between researchers, national sporting organisations and experts in design and development to strengthen the integrity and applicability of future coach education initiatives.		[Hamer, Jennifer; Desbrow, Ben; Irwin, Chris] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Gold Coast, Australia; [Shaw, Greg; Disher, Ali] Swimming Australia, Brisbane, Australia; [Alexiou, Helen] Knowledge Brokering Grp, Canberra, Australia; [Hamer, Jennifer] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Gold Coast, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001379496700001	33	Article; Article		
J	Schlimm, Joern; Mereu, Sebastiano; Breuer, Christoph								Scoring big - how sports video game features drive virtual ownership, willingness to pay and soccer participation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			436	467		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2024-0135			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposeSports organizations have a strategic interest in utilizing video games as a means to generate commercial opportunities and increase participation in their respective sports. This study aims to investigate the specific features of sports video games (SVGs) that may significantly influence gamers' desire to own virtual items, their Willingness to Pay (W2P) for these items and their participation in real-life soccer activities. The research also considers generational cohorts, and the amount of time gamers spend playing video games, offering a preliminary analysis of potential differences among various demographic groups and gamer types. Conducted in collaboration with the F & eacute;d & eacute;ration Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), the practical implications of this research aim to provide FIFA and other sports organizations with a foundational basis for the selection and collaborative development of SVGs.Design/methodology/approachTo the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first attempt to determine the impact of concrete SVG features on consumers' Ownership, W2P and Participation. Hence, a new survey construct needed to be developed based on an extensive review of scales that have been used by researchers to assess gamers' gratifications and motivations for playing video games. The new construct was tested and refined through exploratory factor analysis. This study subsequently uses structural equation modeling to explore the impact of various SVG features on Ownership, W2P and Participation.FindingsThe results of this study indicate that, from a commercial perspective, competition, collaboration and social interaction appeal to gamers and drive Ownership and W2P in SVGs. Additionally, discovery and exploration enhance the SVG experience further motivating gamers to spend on in-game content. Fantasy, Escape and Sport Context are critical determinants of soccer Participation, as they enable gamers to immerse themselves in a virtual environment that offers experiences unattainable in real life. These features can strengthen gamers' identification with soccer, making real-life Participation more appealing. Competing, Socializing and Relationship features also boost Participation by fostering a feeling of community and social interaction, encouraging gamers to seek similar real-world experiences. The findings of this study indicate that a universal approach may be ineffective, as various target audiences are motivated to engage in commercial transactions or participate in soccer based on different SVG features. Consequently, it is essential for sports organizations to segment their target audience and strategically develop SVGs that cater to the distinct needs of each group.Research limitations/implicationsFuture research should aim to draw more representative samples by including a broader range of demographics, income levels and geographic locations. This would ensure that findings are generalizable across different segments of the population. The study also offers first insights into the preferences of different types of gamers according to their age group and time spent playing. However, additional research is needed to determine the preferences of additional types of gamers, for instance, by creating dedicated gamer marketing personas based on parameters like frequency of play, length of an individual gaming session, number of games owned, etc.Practical implicationsFor sports organizations like FIFA, focusing on SVGs with multiplayer experiences, social features and competitive gameplay is crucial. Monetization strategies should capitalize on gamers' desire to stand out and succeed in social and competitive contexts. With the additional focus on the discovery of rare items, sports organizations should integrate scarcity, exclusivity and discovery mechanics into their video games. The combination of social competition and the thrill of discovering rare items can drive higher engagement, loyalty and revenue. To inspire greater Participation in real-life soccer, sports organizations like FIFA should strategically select or develop video games that harness the power of immersion into a virtual sports environment by incorporating "Fantasy", "Escape" and "Sport Context" features into SVGs. By creating immersive experiences that encourage gamers to connect with the sport on a deeper level, SVGs can effectively drive real-life soccer engagement.Originality/valueTo the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first time a study explores the concrete features of SVGs that may have a significant impact on gamers' desire to own virtual items (Ownership), on consumers' W2P for these items and on Participation in real-life soccer activities. Unlike previous research, which has predominantly concentrated on video games in general or specifically on the sports simulation game subcategory within SVGs, this study adopts a broader perspective by considering all types of sports-themed video games.		[Schlimm, Joern; Breuer, Christoph] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Mereu, Sebastiano] Sports Business Res Acad, Zurich, Switzerland; [Schlimm, Joern] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001376054300001	81	Article; Article		
J	Koehne, Niklas H.; Locke, Auston R.; Alley, Austin A.; Ramey, Matthew D.; Namiri, Nikan K.; Dhanjani, Suraj; Yendluri, Avanish; Waterman, Brian R.; Sherman, Seth L.; Parisien, Robert L.								Increasing incidence of concussion and head injury due to electric biking: a 10-year sex- and age-specific analysis of national injury data								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	3			197	202		10.1080/00913847.2024.2440309			MAY 4 2025	2025	Objectives: Electric biking (e-biking) is a rapidly growing recreation, sport, and mode of transportation that often presents to emergency departments (EDs) with high-impact head injuries. This study aimed to evaluate the epidemiology of e-bike-related concussions and closed-head injuries (CHI) to inform more effective injury prevention strategies. Methods: The National Electronic Injury Surveillance (NEISS) was queried for e-bike related concussions and CHIs presented to national EDs from 1 January 2013-31 December 2022. Patient demographics, diagnoses, and dispositions were recorded, and injury narratives were reviewed to identify mechanisms of injury and motor vehicle (MV) involvement. Results: A total of 11,052 nationally estimated (NE) e-bike head injuries presented to US EDs from 2013 to 2022. E-bike head injuries increased significantly from 2013 to 2022 (p = .006, beta = 372.5), with 40.8% of all head injuries occurring in 2022. Nearly one-third of patients (31.0%) required hospital admission, with hospitalization occurring most frequently among ages 51 and older (44.5%). MV involvement accounted for 27.6% of head injuries, and caused a higher proportion of hospitalizations than mechanisms without MVs (35.6% vs. 29.4%, respectively; p < 0.001). High school age riders had the most MV incidents (53.2%), while the middle school age group had the highest proportion of concussions (26.5%) among all age groups. Relative to females, males were more likely to be involved in an MV incident (28.5% vs. 15.5%; p < 0.001) and were more likely to be hospitalized (33.0% vs. 25.4%; p < 0.001). Conclusion: The incidence of concussions and CHIs due to e-bikes increased significantly from 2013 to 2022, while high proportions of hospitalization indicate serious injury severity and large medical costs associated with these injuries. The prevalence of crashes involving MVs, especially among teenagers, calls for further research on commuter and recreational e-bike use along with new traffic legislation to protect young e-bikers.		[Koehne, Niklas H.; Locke, Auston R.; Namiri, Nikan K.; Dhanjani, Suraj; Yendluri, Avanish; Parisien, Robert L.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5 East 98th St,9th Floor, New York, NY 10029 USA; [Alley, Austin A.] Brown Univ, Dept Econ, Providence, RI USA; [Ramey, Matthew D.] Columbia Univ, Mailman Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Environm Hlth Sci, New York, NY USA; [Waterman, Brian R.] Wake Forest Univ, Sch Med, Dept Sports Med & Orthoped, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Sherman, Seth L.] Stanford Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Sports Med, Stanford, CA USA; [Koehne, Niklas H.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 5 East 98th St,9th Floor, New York, NY 10029 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001378541300001	29	Article; Article		
J	Ozgen, Caner; Kim, Euisoo; Kose, Huseyin; Balci, Velittin; Cevik, Huseyin								How expanded servicescape shapes fitness center members' decision-making processes: a stimulus-organism-response (SOR) model perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			489	506		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2024-0216			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposeThe purpose of this research is to examine the holistic impact of expanded servicescape stimuli (physical, social, socio-symbolic, natural) on the decision-making processes (emotional, attitudinal, normative, and control) of fitness center members and consequently, the indirect effects on behavioral intentions (response) within the Stimulus-Organism-Response (SOR) model.Design/methodology/approachA total of 336 fitness center members were reached using the convenience sampling method. The fundamental methodological principles of structural equation modeling (SEM) were followed to validate the proposed theoretical model and test the hypotheses.FindingsThe results revealed that the holistic servicescape stimuli of fitness centers affect the emotional, normative, attitudinal, and control variables in the psychological decision-making processes of members, thereby influencing their intentions to maintain their fitness center memberships.Originality/valueThis study significantly advances the literature by empirically demonstrating the combined effects of expanded servicescape stimuli on the decision-making processes of fitness center customers. Thus, providing valuable insights for both academics and practitioners in environmental psychology and sports marketing.		[Ozgen, Caner; Kose, Huseyin; Balci, Velittin] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sports Management, Eskisehir, Turkiye; [Kim, Euisoo] Western Carolina Univ, Coll Business, Sch Mkt Entrepreneurship Sport Management & Hospit, Cullowhee, NC USA; [Cevik, Huseyin] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Recreat, Eskisehir, Turkiye; [Ozgen, Caner] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sports Management, Eskisehir, Turkiye								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001374739600001	84	Article; Article		
J	Sal-de-Rellan, Alejandro; Ben Brahim, Mehdi; Martin, Victor; Yassin, Hussain; Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier								Effects of combined resisted sprint training with small-sided games compared to regular soccer training on physical performance in professional soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			650	657		10.1177/17479541241302083			APR 2025	2025	The aim of our study was to compare the effects of combining small-sided games training with resisted sprint training in relation to regular soccer training on soccer players' physical performance. Twenty-seven male soccer players (age: 21.22 +/- 1.18 years; height: 1.79 +/- 0.05 m; body mass: 73.91 +/- 4.83 kg) were randomly assigned to an experimental group (EG, n = 16) or a control group (CG, n = 11). The intervention program had to be performed 2 times a week over 6 weeks. The only difference between the 2 groups was that the EG performed a combined training using small-sided games and resisted sprints, while the CG performed the regular soccer training. Within-group analysis showed significant improvements in 5 meters (5-m), countermovement jump (CMJ), squat jump (SJ), mean time (RSAm) and the percentage of decrement (%Dec) from pretest to posttest in EG. However, CG did not show significant improvements in any performance variable. Between-groups analysis revealed differences in favor of the EG in CMJ and SJ. In conclusion, the results of this study indicate that combined SSG + RST training will improve the performance of soccer players (acceleration, jumping and RSA). In practical terms, strength and conditioning coaches should consider including this programme as over a short period of 6 weeks (2 times per week) for 30 min it has been effective in improving the performance of soccer players.		[Sal-de-Rellan, Alejandro] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Social Sci & Commun, Madrid, Spain; [Ben Brahim, Mehdi; Yassin, Hussain] Prince Sultan Univ, Hlth & Phys Educ Dept, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; [Martin, Victor] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Fernan Gonzalez 76, Burgos, Spain; [Martin, Victor; Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier] Univ Pontificia Salamanca, Res Grp Planning & Assessment Training & Athlet Pe, Salamanca, Spain; [Martin, Victor] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Fernan Gonzalez 76, Burgos, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001377121400001	46	Article; Article		
J	Edwards, Peter K.; Leembruggen, Katrina; Peers, Chelsea; Lindahl, Martin; Law, Yee Xi; Hughes, Mick; Gibson, Mark; Ebert, Jay R.								Rehabilitation and assessment practices following anterior cruciate ligament injury: A survey of Australian physiotherapists								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				69	77		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.12.001			JAN 2025	2025	Objective: This study aimed to investigate the current beliefs and practices among Australian physiotherapists regarding the management of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries. Design: Cross-sectional survey. Setting: Online survey. Participants: Australian physiotherapists. Outcome measures: The survey assessed beliefs and practices regarding non-operative management, ACL reconstruction, pre- and post-operative rehabilitation, and return to sport (RTS) criteria. Frequencies and percentages summarized survey responses, and chi-square or Fisher's exact tests assessed whether beliefs and practices were influenced by experience (<= 6 years or >6 years) and annual caseload (<6 or >= 6 patients). Results: In total, 419 physiotherapists were included, with 367 completing the survey in its entirety. Most physiotherapists (86.8%) consider non-surgical management alternatives for patients. Two-thirds (59.8%) recommend a minimum of 9-12 months before RTS, emphasizing recovery of knee strength (93.9%) and psychological readiness (93.9%). Of those who assessed strength, 32.5% use manual muscle testing, and 37.4% assess strength from hop testing. The 63.5% of respondents who reported barriers to implementing best practice ACL management, cited lack of resources (69.1%) and patient non-compliance (67.8%) as the most common reasons. Conclusion: This survey of Australian physiotherapists showed alignment with evidence-based ACL guidelines but highlighted differences from international practices and variations by experience and caseload.		[Edwards, Peter K.; Leembruggen, Katrina; Peers, Chelsea; Lindahl, Martin; Law, Yee Xi; Gibson, Mark] Curtin Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, Bentley, WA, Australia; [Edwards, Peter K.; Ebert, Jay R.] Orthopaed Res Fdn Western Australia, Perth, WA, Australia; [Hughes, Mick] North Queensland Physiotherapy Ctr, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Ebert, Jay R.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia; [Edwards, Peter K.] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, Bentley, WA, Australia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001385373400001	54	Article; Article		
J	Dokumaci, Umut Kubat								How streamer credibility affects viewers' willingness to pay for online games: a social identity perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	3			412	435		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2024-0108			OCT 10 2025	2025	PurposeThis paper proposes a structural model that explores the relationship between game/esports streamers' credibility dimensions and viewers' willingness to spend money (WTP) on online games. The study seeks to uncover the underlying mechanisms in this relationship by drawing on the source credibility model, social identity theory and S-O-R framework.Design/methodology/approachThe study utilized an online survey conducted through Qualtrics survey software to validate the proposed framework. The sample (N = 612) consisted of viewers of a Turkish esports live streamer with a substantial following on both Twitch and YouTube. The main research framework was tested using AMOS 22, and the serial mediation analyses were done using Process v3.0 on SPSS.FindingsThe findings of this study are significant, revealing that streamer credibility (SC) factors - trustworthiness, attractiveness and expertise - have a profound impact on the response variables purchase intention (PI) and WTP through streamer identification (STI). Moreover, the study uncovers that the time spent watching the streamer significantly influences WTP for games, a crucial insight for the gaming industry.Practical implicationsBy bridging the realms of social identity theory and the source credibility model within the context of game streaming, this study charts new territory in understanding the intricate web of factors shaping consumer behaviour in live-stream gaming environments. It highlights the multifaceted nature of viewer-streamer interactions and their implications for marketers and industry stakeholders seeking to navigate the expanding landscape of live stream commerce.Originality/valueThis paper offers a novel structural framework that synthesizes multiple perspectives to investigate the relationship between esports streamers' credibility and viewers' spending behaviour. By incorporating concepts from the source credibility model, social identity theory and S-O-R framework, the study not only expands upon existing theories of identity in the streaming domain but also provides a comprehensive understanding of the factors influencing consumer behaviour in online gaming environments.		[Dokumaci, Umut Kubat] Akdeniz Univ, Antalya, Turkiye; [Dokumaci, Umut Kubat] Akdeniz Univ, Antalya, Turkiye								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001372182300001	115	Article; Article		
J	Ghorbel, Ahmed; Trabelsi, Omar; Yaakoubi, Mohamed; Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader; Gharbi, Adnene								Flipped classroom approach for gymnastics learning in physical education: A quasi-experimental study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			300	312		10.1177/17479541241301382			FEB 1 2025	2025	The flipped classroom (FC), a blended learning approach where students engage with lesson content remotely before in-person class, is increasingly recommended in different educational settings. Advancing its integration within genuine physical education (PE) settings, this research explores the effects of an innovative FC model on the learning experiences of secondary school students in gymnastics. This study presents data from 42 students, aged 17.42 +/- 0.80 years, divided quasi-randomly between 19 in the flipped classroom (FC) group and 23 in the traditional approach (TA) group. Data were collected before and after a six-week intervention, assessing motor learning through gymnastics floor routines, knowledge acquisition in gymnastics via a custom-designed written test, and both autonomous (AMI) and controlled motivation indexes (CMI) through the "Situational Motivation Scale" (SIMS). During the intervention, physical engagement was quantified through direct observation as the number of gymnastics skill repetitions per session. Results showed that the FC group significantly outperformed the TA group in motor learning and knowledge acquisition, with p<0.001. The FC group also exhibited a significant increase in AMI (p<0.001) and a decrease in CMI (p<0.01), opposite to the TA group. With mean repetitions ranging from 41 to 47.67 compared to TA group's 21.17 to 25.83, the FC model significantly enhanced phsycial engagement in the FC group (p<0.05 to p<0.001). This research underscores the efficacy of the suggested FC model in boosting motor, cognitive, and affective outcomes in gymnastics. Recommendations for optimal implementation are discussed.		[Ghorbel, Ahmed; Trabelsi, Omar; Yaakoubi, Mohamed; Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader; Gharbi, Adnene] Natl Observ Sport, UR18JS01, Res Unit Phys Act Sport & Hlth, Tunis, Tunisia; [Ghorbel, Ahmed; Trabelsi, Omar] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Kef, Tunisia; [Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader] Univ Gafsa, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Gafsa, Gafsa, Tunisia; [Gharbi, Adnene] Univ Sfax, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Sfax, Tunisia; [Trabelsi, Omar] Route Sidi Mansour Km 4, Sfax 3094, Tunisia								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001373441400001	48	Article; Article		
J	Seifert, Ludovic; Letocart, Adrien; Guignard, Brice; Regaieg, Mohamed Amin								Effect of speed on relationships between impairment side, breathing laterality and coordination symmetry in Paralympic swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	8			2184	2204		10.1080/14763141.2024.2435925			AUG 3 2025	2025	This study questioned the influence of unilateral physical impairment on controlling inter-limb coordination, notably the coordination symmetry. We investigated whether unilateral physical impairment and unilateral breathing preference led to motor coordination asymmetry in eleven elite Para swimmers during 10 times 25 m in front crawl incremented in speed. Multicamera video system and five inertial measurement units were used to assess arm and leg phases and to compute symmetry of arm coordination and of arm-leg synchronisation. Hierarchical cluster analysis was used to classify the different profiles of relationships between impairment, breathing and motor coordination symmetry. Unilateral impairment led to asymmetric arm coordination (similar to 83% of time, mostly at fast speeds), which always occurred to the side of the affected limb and which was associated to the preferential breathing side (similar to 53% of time), while arm-leg synchronisation remained mainly symmetric (66.7 to 86.1% of time). It could be advised to assess the influence of impairment side and breathing side preference on motor coordination symmetry (1) to understand how the Para swimmers functionally adapt to their impairment, (2) to ensure that the unaffected limb generates great propulsion, and (3) to ensure that breathing does not impair propulsion nor increase motor coordination asymmetry.		[Seifert, Ludovic; Letocart, Adrien; Guignard, Brice; Regaieg, Mohamed Amin] Univ Rouen Normandy, Fac Sport Sci, CETAPS UR3832, Mont St Aignan, France; [Seifert, Ludovic] Inst Univ France IUF, Paris, France; [Guignard, Brice] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, LIBM UR7424, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, Villeurbanne, France; [Seifert, Ludovic] Univ Rouen Normandy, Fac Sport Sci, CETAPS UR3832, Mont St Aignan, France; [Seifert, Ludovic] Inst Univ France IUF, Paris, France								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001372281200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Vigneswaran, Aynkaran; Serner, Andreas; Farooq, Abdulaziz; Kipps, Courtney; Mosler, Andrea Britt								Is limb asymmetry an intrinsic risk factor for time-loss groin injury in professional male soccer players?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				53	60		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.11.008			JAN 2025	2025	Objectives: To provide normative values for between-limb asymmetry of hip strength and range of motion (ROM) in professional male soccer players and evaluate the relationship between these asymmetries and groin injury. Design: Secondary analysis of a prospective cohort study. Methods: A total of 438 professional male soccer players underwent musculoskeletal screening, injury and exposure surveillance over two consecutive seasons. Between-limb asymmetry for two hip strength (eccentric adduction and abduction) and six ROM measures were calculated, and normal asymmetry considered within 1 standard deviation (SD) of the mean. Cox proportional hazard regression analysis estimated the association between asymmetry and time-loss groin injury. Results: Normal asymmetry ranged between 0.3% and 27.3% across strength and ROM variables. No association was found between groin injuries and asymmetry in eccentric hip adduction (HR = 0.99, 95%CI = 0.98-1.00; p = 0.167) or abduction strength (HR = 1.00, 95%CI = 0.99-1.01; p = 0.745). For five of the six ROM measures, no association with groin injuries were determined. A statistically significant, though likely clinically irrelevant, association was found between groin injury and dominant leg total hip rotation ROM (HR = 1.03, 95% CI = 1.00-1.05; p = 0.040). Conclusion: Normal hip strength and ROM asymmetry ranged between -27 and +20%. No clinically relevant associations were found between asymmetry in hip strength or ROM and time-loss groin injuries. Level of evidence: 2.		[Vigneswaran, Aynkaran; Kipps, Courtney] Univ Coll London UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, Div Surg & Intervent Sci, London, England; [Serner, Andreas; Farooq, Abdulaziz; Mosler, Andrea Britt] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, POB 29222, Doha, Qatar; [Serner, Andreas] Federat Internatl Football Assoc, FIFA Med, FIFA Str 20 POB 8044, Zurich, Switzerland; [Mosler, Andrea Britt] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Plenty Rd & Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Mosler, Andrea Britt] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Plenty Rd & Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001375533500001	36	Article; Article		
J	Burnel, Joevin; Chamu, Thomas; Bonin, Nicolas; Van Cant, Joachim; De Fontenay, Benoit Pairot								Strength, mobility, and functional outcomes 2.5 months after hip arthroscopy for femoroacetabular impingement syndrome: A Cross-sectional Study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				43	52		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.11.006			JAN 2025	2025	Objective: Short-term deficits after hip arthroscopy for femoroacetabular impingement syndrome (FAIS) remain poorly understood. We assessed muscle strength, hip range of motion, and functional task performance 2.5 months after surgery and analyzed their association with self-reported function. Design: Cross sectional study. Participants: 52 patients. Main outcome measures: Maximal isometric strength (hip flexion with both straight and flexed hip/knee, abduction and external rotation), hip range of motion (flexion, external and internal rotation), and functional tasks (bipodal/unipodal squat, bilateral vertical jump, single-leg distance hop). Between-limb differences were analyzed using paired t-tests, and the Limb Symmetry Index (LSI) was calculated. Results: The operated hip showed lower hip flexion strength (LSI = 88.4%; ES = -0.549; p <0.001) and reduced range of motion (LSI = 75.4-92.4%; ES = -0.479 to -1.02; all p < 0.01) compared to the non-operated hip. Functional task performance did not differ between operated and non-operated hips (all p > 0.05). Conclusion: Patients showed alterations in hip flexion strength and range of motion post-surgery, but functional task performance was unaffected. Targeted assessment and intervention may be needed to improve outcomes after surgery for FAIS.		[Burnel, Joevin; Van Cant, Joachim] Univ Libre Bruxelles, Fac Sci Motr, Unite Rech Sci Readaptat, Route Lennik 808, B-1070 Brussels, Belgium; [Burnel, Joevin; Chamu, Thomas; De Fontenay, Benoit Pairot] RAMSAY, Clin Sauvegarde, Lyon, France; [Bonin, Nicolas] Lyon Ortho Clin, Lyon, France; [Burnel, Joevin] Univ Libre Bruxelles, Fac Sci Motr, Unite Rech Sci Readaptat, Route Lennik 808, B-1070 Brussels, Belgium								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001376766600001	67	Article; Article		
J	Plakias, Spyridon; Kasioura, Charoula; Pamboris, George M.; Kokkotis, Christos; Tsatalas, Themistoklis; Moustakidis, Serafeim; Papalexi, Marina; Giakas, Giannis; Tsaopoulos, Dimitrios								A grounded theory for professional soccer teams' playing styles: Towards a consensus								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			159	172		10.1177/17479541241300605			FEB 1 2025	2025	The recognition of playing styles in soccer has been established as highly significant in the performance analysis of the sport. The aim of this research was to clarify the terms used by authors to express this specific concept and to identify all recognized playing styles, examining their relationships, thereby creating a comprehensive framework. We employed a qualitative study design using a Grounded Theory approach. A rigorous process of open, axial, and selective coding was applied, involving nine researchers to ensure the reliability of the findings. Qualitative research data were obtained from documents found on Scopus and Google Scholar. After applying specific criteria, 205 documents were deemed suitable, with 22 of them necessary to achieve theoretical saturation, the point where no new properties, dimensions, or relationships emerge during analysis. The 22 documents were analyzed using Atlas.ti.23, identifying 84 codes, 40 of which were utilized as categories and 44 as subcategories. The set of codes categorized into six thematic folders. The analysis led to the identification of terms used to express the concept of style in the international literature and the recognition of playing styles used to characterize a team a) regardless of the game phases, b) in specific phases of the game, c) in specific sub-phases of the attack, d) based on the game phases that teams rely on for their tactics, and e) based on the teams' physical performance. By synthesizing existing literature, we proposed a Grounded Theory that serves as a consensus point for researchers and coaches. This theory managed to overcome the limitations of individual studies and can serve as the foundation for effective communication within the soccer community, thus being a useful tool for future research, as well as for coaches, analysts, and scouts of the teams.		[Plakias, Spyridon; Tsatalas, Themistoklis; Giakas, Giannis] Univ Thessaly, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Trikala, Greece; [Kasioura, Charoula] Univ West Attica, Dept Biomed Sci & Sch Hlth & Care Sci, Athens, Greece; [Pamboris, George M.] European Univ Cyprus, Sch Sci, Dept Hlth Sci, Nicosia, Cyprus; [Kokkotis, Christos] Democritus Univ Thrace, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Komotini, Greece; [Moustakidis, Serafeim] AIDEAS OU, Tallinn, Estonia; [Papalexi, Marina] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Operat Technol Events & Hospital Management, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Tsaopoulos, Dimitrios] Inst Bio Econ & Agri Technol, Ctr Res & Technol Hellas, Volos, Greece; [Pamboris, George M.] European Univ Cyprus, Sch Sci, Dept Hlth Sci, Nicosia, Cyprus								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001372011600001	72	Article; Article		
J	Earle, James; Till, Kevin; Cowburn, Ian								A case study of a sports school scholarship programme: Student-athlete dual career competency development and perceptions of the talent development environment								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			330	339		10.1177/17479541241295454			FEB 1 2025	2025	Purpose: Sports scholarship programmes are a common feature internationally for schools to attract and retain sporting student-athletes. Thus, it is important to understand how a sports scholarship programme supports holistic athlete development. The current study presents student-athlete perspectives of the talent development environment (TDE) and the development of dual career (DC) competencies in a sports school scholarship programme and examines the relationships between TDE and DC competencies. Methods: A case-study design was adopted to analyse student-athlete perspectives of a sports scholarship programme using the talent development environment questionnaire (TDEQ-5) and dual career competency questionnaire (DCCQ-A). Results: The TDE was perceived positively (1=strongly disagree and 6=strongly agree), with long-term development (5.0 +/- 0.3) and alignment of expectations (4.6 +/- 0.5) the highest subscales. Support network (4.3 +/- 0.4) was the lowest perceived subscale. All DC competencies were considered important by student-athletes. However, student-athletes had a significantly lower perceived possession than importance in 88% of DC competencies. Emotional awareness was the subscale that required the most development. Significant relationships were found between the TDE and DC competencies, including long-term development vs. DC management (r=0.41) and emotional awareness (r=0.32), alignment of expectations vs. DC management (r=0.39), communication vs. emotional awareness (r=0.36), holistic quality preparation vs. DC management (r=0.48) and support network vs. DC management (r=0.38). Conclusion: Student-athletes perceived the TDE positively yet felt the sports scholarship programme could develop their DC competencies further. Perceptions of the TDE relate to DC competencies, especially DC management. Organisations offering sports scholarships should ensure stakeholders recognise the demands of a DC by monitoring the value of such programmes.		[Earle, James; Till, Kevin; Cowburn, Ian] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Ctr Child & Adolescent Phys Literacy, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Earle, James] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Ctr Child & Adolescent Phys Literacy, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001371053900001	54	Article; Article		
J	Wells, Leighton A.; Bruce, Lyndell; Hoffmann, Samantha M.; Kremer, Peter; Dwyer, Dan B.								Differences between Australian triathlon coaching practices and evidence-based training load management recommendations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			92	101		10.1177/17479541241305677			FEB 1 2025	2025	Objectives The training load practices of triathlon coaches are poorly understood. The aim of this study was to explore and describe these practices to create an opportunity to compare their alignment with evidence-based practices. Design The study employs an online survey and descriptive statistical analysis to investigate load practices. Method: 63 Australian triathlon coaches with 12 or more months of experience were surveyed. They held tertiary qualifications (27.7%), were AusTriathlon accredited (25.3%) and coached mainly age-group athletes (94%). Coaches' use of subjective and objective metrics for prescribing, measuring, and monitoring training load and communication frequency with athletes was examined. The survey investigated use of subjective metrics (e.g., s/RPE) and objective metrics (e.g., Time/Distance/Pace) for prescribing and monitoring load, frequency of monitoring sessions, and communication with athletes. Results Most coaches prescribe load using subjective metrics (78% of coaches) and objective metrics (76%). Load is measured/monitored by 81% of coaches using objective metrics, with subjective metrics less commonly used (62%). Less than half (43.5%) monitor every session/day, while most monitor load only weekly (51.6%) or monthly (4.8%). Communication about load occurs mostly every 4 weeks (38.7%). Conclusions Coaches' load practices only partially align with evidence-based recommendations. The use of subjective measures to monitor load is not common, neither is the consideration of acute and chronic loads. Many coaches communicate infrequently with their athletes. The potential consequence is health risks to athletes that could be addressed before they are missed. Coaches can make better use of technology to help them manage load.		[Wells, Leighton A.; Hoffmann, Samantha M.; Kremer, Peter; Dwyer, Dan B.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Fac Hlth, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Fac Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Wells, Leighton A.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, DD Bldg,75 Pigdons Rd, Geelong, Vic 3216, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001372012200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Pitts, Joshua D.; Evans, Brent A.								Show Me the Money! The Immediate Impact of Name, Image, and Likeness on College Football Recruiting								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	3			316	335		10.1177/15270025241301021			APR 2025	2025	Using recruiting data from 247 Sports that accounts for transfers, the authors examined the impact of name, image, and likeness (NIL) on college football recruiting. Name, image, and likeness earnings potential at each university was measured by the average of the top-ten NIL valuations for a university's football players (NIL Average). After controlling for many factors, including university- and coach-fixed effects, our instrumental variables estimates reveal that NIL Average was correlated with the amount of recruiting points a program received in the 2022, 2023, and 2024 recruiting cycles. Yet, the increase in NIL funding required to significantly alter the talent universities attract is probably cost-inhibitive for most programs. We conclude that while NIL is certainly a new aspect of recruiting to which universities must devote resources, the existence of NIL is unlikely to cause a dramatic shift in the distribution of talent in college football.		[Pitts, Joshua D.] Mississippi Coll, 200 S Capitol St, Clinton, MS 39056 USA; [Evans, Brent A.] Georgia Coll & State Univ, Milledgeville, GA USA; [Pitts, Joshua D.] Mississippi Coll, 200 S Capitol St, Clinton, MS 39056 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001370477900001	35	Article; Article		
J	Santy, Fanny-May; Pernoud, Anthony; Barrue-Belou, Simon; Fourchet, Francois; Bothorel, Hugo; Samozino, Pierre								Reliability of isokinetic dynamometer for isometric assessment of ankle plantar flexor strength								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				36	42		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.11.001			JAN 2025	2025	Objective: To evaluate isokinetic dynamometer reliability for isometric assessment of plantar flexor (PF) strength. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Testing by the same physiotherapist twice during a first session (repeatability) and once during a second session (reproducibility). Participants: Twenty-two healthy subjects (44 ankles, 11 men/11 women). Main outcome measures: Isometric PF peak torque, with and without body mass normalization, at 0 degrees and +20 degrees of plantar flexion. Measurement reliability was evaluated using intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC), standard error of measurement (SEM) and minimal detectable change (MDC). Results: Without normalization, measurement repeatability was excellent at 0 degrees of plantar flexion (ICC, 0.94; SEM, 6.6%; MDC, 18.4%) compared with good repeatability at +20 degrees (ICC, 0.85; SEM, 11.1%; MDC 30.6%). Measurement repeatability following normalization was good at 0 degrees (ICC, 0.88; SEM, 5.2%; MDC, 14.4%) and +20 degrees (ICC, 0.79; SEM, 10.2%; MDC, 28.1%). While reproducibility was good at 0 degrees with normalization (ICC, 0.84; SEM, 5.9%; MDC, 16.3%) or excellent without (ICC 0.92; SEM 7.5%; MDC, 20.8%), it was moderate at +20 degrees with normalization (ICC 0.71; SEM 11.3%; MDC, 31.3%) or good without (ICC 0.78; SEM 13.0%; MDC, 36.1%). Conclusion: The reliability of PF maximal isometric strength is good/excellent at 0 degrees of plantar flexion but moderate/good at +20 degrees.		[Santy, Fanny-May; Barrue-Belou, Simon; Fourchet, Francois] La Tour Hosp, Physiotherapy Dept, CH-1217 Meyrin, Switzerland; [Santy, Fanny-May; Barrue-Belou, Simon; Fourchet, Francois] La Tour Hosp, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Mot Anal Lab, CH-1217 Meyrin, Switzerland; [Pernoud, Anthony; Bothorel, Hugo] Tour Hosp, Res Dept, CH-1217 Meyrin, Switzerland; [Fourchet, Francois] French Soc Sports Phys Therapist SFMKS Lab, Pierrefitte Sur Seine, France; [Samozino, Pierre] Univ Savoie Mont Blanc, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, EA 7424, F-73000 Chambery, France; [Santy, Fanny-May] La Tour Hosp, Physiotherapy Dept, CH-1217 Meyrin, Switzerland; [Santy, Fanny-May] La Tour Hosp, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Mot Anal Lab, CH-1217 Meyrin, Switzerland								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001377311500001	33	Article; Article		
J	Sun, He; Soh, Kim Geok; Mohammadi, Alireza; Toumi, Zakaria; Chang, Runzhen; Jiang, Jun								The Restorative Effects of Nature Exposure on The Self-Regulation Resources in Mentally Fatigued Soccer Players: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			882	894		10.52082/jssm.2024.882			DEC 2024	2024	Interventions involving exposure to nature can increase self-regulatory resources. However, this improvement has never been examined in mentally fatigued soccer players who have insufficient resources to self-regulate and maintain specific performances. The present study aims to investigate how exposure to nature influences the self-regulation capability of university soccer players who are mentally fatigued. The participants aged 18-24 years (M = 20.73 +/- 2.00), with an average training duration of 5.14 +/- 1.31 years, were randomly divided into six different groups (three experimental groups and three control groups). Each experimental group was compared with its corresponding control group using three different intervention durations: 4.17 min, 8.33 min, and 12.50 min. A forty-five-minute Stroop task was used to induce mental fatigue, followed by the intervention. The indicators of self-regulation, both physiological (heart rate variability, or HRV) and psychological (competitive state anxiety), were recorded. Experimental Group 3 (12.50 min intervention) only showed significant improvement in HRV (p = 0.008, d = 0.93), competitive state anxiety (cognitive and somatic anxiety p = 0.019, d = 0.86; state confidence p = 0.041, d = 0.797) compared to control group 3. Nature exposure significantly improves self-regulation in mentally fatigued soccer players. Specifically, the 12.50 min intervention showed the greatest improvements in both HRV and competitive state anxiety, suggesting that a longer duration of nature exposure enhances mental restoration more effectively.		[Sun, He] Henan Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Kaifeng, Peoples R China; [Soh, Kim Geok] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Educ Studies, Dept Sport Studies, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia; [Mohammadi, Alireza] City Univ Malaysia, Fac Business Management, Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia; [Toumi, Zakaria] Northeast Normal Univ, Sch Psychol, Changchun, Peoples R China; [Chang, Runzhen] Shanghai Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Jun] Zhengzhou Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Main Campus, Zhengzhou, Peoples R China; [Sun, He] Henan Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Kaifeng, Peoples R China; [Soh, Kim Geok] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Educ Studies, Dept Sport Studies, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001375302000009	94	Article; Article		
J	Duan, YuQing; Wang, Li; Liu, Qi; Huang, Wanyu								Smaller Formats of Volleyball Lead to Greater Improvements in Lower Limb Strength and Power, As Well As Reductions in Landing Forces: A Randomized Controlled Study in Girls								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			872	881		10.52082/jssm.2024.872			DEC 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to compare the adaptations in muscular strength, power, and landing forces of young female volleyball players enrolled in two experimental programs: one using smaller formats of the game (SFG) and the other using larger formats of the game (LFG), with a third group serving as a control. This study employed a randomized controlled design, with an 8week intervention period and pre- and post-intervention evaluations. Fifty-six trained/developmental participants (age: 14.7 +/- 0.5 years) voluntarily participated in this study. Each experimental group received additional training twice a week. The SFG group participated in 2v2 and 3v3 formats on smaller courts (covering 2/6 of the court's available zones) with a regular net, while the LFG group played in 4v4 and 5v5 formats on larger courts (covering 4/6 of the court's available zones). Assessments were conducted using force platforms and included the following tests: (i) isometric mid-thigh pull test (IMTP), measuring peak force; (ii) squat jump test (SJ), measuring peak force; (iii) countermovement jump test (CMJ), measuring peak power and landing force; and (iv) drop jump test (DJT), measuring the reactive strength index. Significant differences emerged post-intervention across all outcomes (p < 0.05). The SFG exhibited significantly greater IMTP peak force compared to both the LFG (p = 0.012) and control groups (p = 0.035). Additionally, the SFG showed significantly greater SJ peak force than the LFG (p = 0.036) and control groups (p = 0.023). Regarding CMJ peak power, significantly higher values were observed in the SFG compared to the LFG (p = 0.042) and control groups (p = 0.046). Moreover, the SFG had significantly lower CMJ peak landing force than both the LFG (p = 0.049) and control groups (p = 0.046). Finally, RSI was significantly higher in the SFG than in the LFG (p = 0.046) and control groups (p = 0.036). This study highlights the significant benefits of incorporating 2v2 and 3v3 SFG formats to enhance muscular strength, power, and landing forces in young female volleyball players, contrasting with less effective outcomes observed with 4v4 and 5v5 LFG formats, suggesting potential neuromuscular advantages crucial for improving volleyball performance.		[Duan, YuQing] Hefei Normal Univ, Coll Sports Sci, Hefei, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Wang, Li] Shanghai Ocean Univ, Phys Educ Dept, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liu, Qi] Shanghai Jiao Tong Univ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liu, Qi] Shanghai Sports Sci Soc, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Huang, Wanyu] Univ Sydney, Dept Educ & Social Work, Camperdown, Australia; [Huang, Wanyu] Univ Sydney, Dept Educ & Social Work, Camperdown, Australia								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001375302000008	37	Article; Article		
J	Dhote, Sylvain; Gimenez, Philippe; Grospretre, Sidney								Acute Neuromuscular Fatigue of a Random Vs Constant Session of Repeated Standing Long Jumps								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			895	906		10.52082/jssm.2024.895			DEC 2024	2024	There is little evidence of the acute effect of random practice, performed by solely varying the intensity but not the task itself, as compared to block practice, i.e. when one task is repeated in a constant manner. This study aimed to examine the acute neuromuscular effects of physical exercise consisting of repeated jumps of randomized length. Fifteen healthy young participants completed 2 separate sessions of 90 minutes. They did 20 minutes of fatiguing exercise, consisting of 100 repeated standing long jumps (SLJ), in two different manners: one session with targeted jump length kept constant (CO), and one with targeted jump length being varied and unpredictable (RA). Pre- and post-tests were conducted before and immediately after, including measurements of Countermovement Jump (CMJ), SLJ, leg extension maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MViC), EMG activities of leg muscles and patellar tendon reflex amplitude (T-reflex: strike force and evoked force). Results showed that performances decreased after the repeated SLJs, independently of the condition (MViC decreased from 448 +/- 118 N to 399 +/- 122 N; CMJ decreased from 36.7 +/- 7.2 cm to 34.6 +/- 6.6 cm). EMG during MViC decreased by 21 +/- 28 % from pre- to post-intervention. T-reflex decreased after both conditions ([Force/Strike] ratio decreased by 38 +/- 69 % from pre to post). Subjective measures showed a greater sense of personal performance and enjoyment after the RA session. Results suggest that a randomly organized intensity of effort led to a similar decrease in physical performance compared to constant intensity when the session loads were matched. It also led to similar fatigue of the neuromuscular system as shown by T-reflexes and EMG measures. Nonetheless, random practice presents the benefit of being markedly more appreciated by participants.		[Dhote, Sylvain; Gimenez, Philippe; Grospretre, Sidney] Univ Franche Comte, EA4660, C3S Culture Sport Hlth Soc, Besancon, France; [Grospretre, Sidney] Inst Univ France IUF, Paris, France; [Dhote, Sylvain] UPFR Sport, C3S Lab, 31,Chem Epitaphe, F-25000 Besancon, France								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001375302000010	40	Article; Article		
J	Maciel, Olavo; Martins, Ricardo; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Figueiredo, Pedro; Afonso, Jose; Baptista, Ivan								The Effect of Speed Endurance Versus Core Training on The Repeated Sprint Ability of Youth Male Soccer Players - A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			907	915		10.52082/jssm.2024.907			DEC 2024	2024	The effects of specific training protocols to improve repeated sprint ability are well known; however, the utility of non-specific training for this purpose is doubtful. Therefore, this study aimed to compare the effects of a specific (sport-related) vs. non-specific (general physical development) eight-week training protocol on developing or maintaining repeated sprint ability in soccer players. Thirty-eight male soccer players (aged 17.1 +/- 0.3 years) were randomly divided into a speed endurance group (n = 18) and a core training group (n = 20). The speed endurance group performed 4 sprints lasting 15 seconds with a recovery of 75 seconds, while the core training group performed 2 sets of 4 exercises for 30 seconds with 15 seconds of recovery. Both protocols were performed twice a week. All players performed the Running-Based Anaerobic Sprint Test (6 consecutive 35-meter sprints with 10seconds recovery intervals). A mixed two-way ANOVA was performed with no significant effects in the interaction term. On average, the speed endurance and the core training groups improved their repeated sprint ability by 7.9% and 8.0%, respectively, from pre- to post-assessment (p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.459). No significant between-group differences were detected for the Running-Based Anaerobic Sprint Test total time or maximum power. In principle, specific and non-specific low-volume training protocols may improve repeated sprint ability over eight weeks in soccer players. However, the improvements may have been derived from the continued soccer-specific training, which is the reason why future studies should include a passive control group and test whether high session volumes produce different results.		[Maciel, Olavo; Afonso, Jose; Baptista, Ivan] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Martins, Ricardo] Polytech Inst Beja, Sch Educ, Dept Arts Humanities & Sports, Beja, Portugal; [Martins, Ricardo] Univ Cadiz, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Cadiz, Spain; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Figueiredo, Pedro] United Arab Emirates Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Abu Dhabi, U Arab Emirates; [Baptista, Ivan] UiT Arctic Univ Norway, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Comp Sci, Tromso, Norway; [Figueiredo, Pedro] United Arab Emirates Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Abu Dhabi, U Arab Emirates								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001375302000011	44	Article; Article		
J	Morrison, Gus; Ashworth, Ben; Read, Paul J.								Test-Training Integration to Optimize Performance and Health in Baseball Pitchers: An Outcome Driven Approach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	6			646	658		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000834			DEC 2024	2024	Upper-limb injuries are common among baseball pitchers, creating significant time loss for the player and financial loss for the team. Multiple studies have outlined the kinetics and kinematics of a baseball pitch, and many of which evaluate testing or training methods to enhance performance and reduce injury risk. However, a systematic approach that integrates testing and training to optimize health and performance in baseball pitchers has not been presented. The aims of this article are threefold: (a) analyze the sport demands to identify the key biomechanical requirements and injury epidemiology; (b) present a test battery to examine the components identified in the needs analysis; and (c) develop a progressive sequence of exercises related to each of the assessments performed, which can then be used to formulate an athletic training program.		[Morrison, Gus; Ashworth, Ben; Read, Paul J.] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Morrison, Gus; Read, Paul J.] UCL, Div Surg & Intervent Sci, London, England; [Read, Paul J.] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, Glos, England; [Read, Paul J.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, London, England; [Morrison, Gus] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Morrison, Gus] UCL, Div Surg & Intervent Sci, London, England								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001367696100008	58	Article; Article		
J	Choice, Erin; Hooker, Kayla; Downey, Rebecca; Haugh, Gabrielle								A Return to Performance Framework to Effectively Complete the Rehabilitation Continuum for Elite Soccer								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	6			667	685		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000844			DEC 2024	2024	Return from sport-related injury requires interprofessional collaboration to progress the athlete through a multistage rehabilitation continuum and successfully re-establish a performance level at or above the preinjury level. To achieve an optimal rehabilitation outcome, evidence-based exercise prescription must be considered throughout the entire continuum alongside typical milestones and testing outcomes. This prescription must also use match-play external load data within a multisystems program. This applied article focuses on the physical characteristics and training aspects after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction and throughout the full rehabilitation continuum which includes 3 general phases: return to activity, sport, and performance. A 5 step framework is provided for the strength and conditioning specialist to effectively transition elite soccer athletes from return to sport to return to performance. This framework includes an expanded definition of the role of the strength and conditioning specialist during rehabilitation and outlines exercise prescription across the entire rehabilitation continuum. Improved interprofessional collaboration, decision making, and load management throughout transitions can aid in optimizing long-term outcomes for the athlete, including reduced risk of reinjury or new injury.		[Choice, Erin; Downey, Rebecca] Regis Univ, Sch Phys Therapy, Denver, CO 80221 USA; [Hooker, Kayla] Washington State Univ, Elson S Floyd Coll Med, Dept Nutr & Exercise Physiol, Spokane, WA USA; [Haugh, Gabrielle] Regis Univ, Sch Phys Therapy, Evolut Phys Therapy & Fitness, Denver, CO USA; [Haugh, Gabrielle] Regis Univ, Affiliate Fac, Sch Phys Therapy, Hlth & Exercise Sci, Denver, CO USA; [Choice, Erin] Regis Univ, Sch Phys Therapy, Denver, CO 80221 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001367696100009	84	Article; Article		
J	Mccurdy, Kevin								The Landmine Romanian Deadlift								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	6			729	733		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000843			DEC 2024	2024	The Romanian deadlift (RDL) is a useful exercise to isolate and train primarily the hip extensors in a weight-bearing stance, but anterior-posterior instability is a limitation that warrants exploration to improve the exercise. The landmine Romanian deadlift is a modification of the RDL that provides greater anterior-posterior stability. This difference in stability has the potential to minimize error in technique, improve muscle activation and force output, and reduce the risk of injury.		[Mccurdy, Kevin] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Mccurdy, Kevin] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001367696100007	8	Article; Article		
J	Le Sant, Guillaume; Frouin, Antoine; Gachet, Lucie; Lacourpaille, Lilian; Nordez, Antoine; Bataille, Emmanuelle; Gaultier, Aurelie; Fournier, Jean-Pascal								Effects of preoperative treatment on healthcare utilization and return to work for anterior cruciate ligament injuries: a real-world study using the French healthcare database								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	2			159	168		10.1080/00913847.2024.2435256			MAR 4 2025	2025	Objective To compare healthcare use and the number of days of sickness benefits between people with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury who received physiotherapy before and after ACL reconstruction (ACLR) and those who received physiotherapy after ACLR only. Secondary aim: to measure the association between the volume of preoperative healthcare and post-ACLR recovery. Methods Each individual's care pathway was extracted from a section of the French National Health Data System (SNDS) database (province: Pays de La Loire). The database was queried for the codes related to sickness benefits and healthcare utilization, including physiotherapy, medical and paramedical visits and procedures, medication, and medical equipment provided up to six months before and eighteen months after the ACLR. (Registry/number: ClinicalTrials.gov/NCT05737719). Results Based on the timing of physiotherapy, two subcohorts were created from the database: 'prehabilitation' (n = 513) for those receiving physiotherapy before and after ACLR; 'no prehabilitation' (n = 630) for those only receiving physiotherapy after ACLR. Before ACLR, healthcare use was higher for the 'prehabilitation' group, including the number of medical visits (3.9 +/- 2.3 vs. 3.0 +/- 1.9 univariate p < 0.001), analgesia (mild opioids 60.4% vs. 49.8% univariate p < 0.001), dispensing of medical equipment (85.0% vs. 68.9% univariate p < 0.001) and sickness benefit days (52.7 +/- 45.6 days vs. 33.2 +/- 35.8 days, univariate p < 0.001). After ACLR, the 'prehabilitation' group underwent a higher number of physiotherapy sessions (46.8 +/- 21.9 sessions vs 35.8 +/- 19.0 sessions, p < 0.001) but had a similar number of sickness benefit days (94.7 +/- 77.8 days vs 87.1 +/- 69.9 days, p = 0.092). From the multivariate analysis (n = 1143): age, comorbidities, the preoperative number of sickness benefit days, and the number of physiotherapy sessions before ACLR explained 24% of the variance in days of sickness benefits after ACLR. Conclusion Prehabilitation was associated with higher healthcare utilization before and after ACLR. Prehabilitation, and other preoperative variables, explained only a part of the number of days of sickness benefits after ACLR.		[Le Sant, Guillaume; Frouin, Antoine; Lacourpaille, Lilian; Nordez, Antoine] Nantes Univ, Movement Interact Performance MIP, UR 4334, Nantes, France; [Le Sant, Guillaume; Gachet, Lucie] IFM3R, Sch Physiotherapy, 54 Rue Baugerie, F-44230 St Sebastien sur Loire, France; [Le Sant, Guillaume; Gaultier, Aurelie; Fournier, Jean-Pascal] Nantes Univ, Fac Med, Dept Med Gen, Pole Federat Soins Primaires, Nantes, France; [Le Sant, Guillaume; Gaultier, Aurelie; Fournier, Jean-Pascal] Univ Angers, OPS, SFR ICAT, Angers, France; [Frouin, Antoine] ISA, St Herblain, France; [Nordez, Antoine] Inst Univ France, Paris, France; [Bataille, Emmanuelle] Caisse Primaire Assurance Malad Loire Atlantique, Hlth Assurance Syst, Nantes, France; [Gaultier, Aurelie] Nantes Univ, CHU Nantes, Direct Rech & Innovat, Plateforme methodol & Biostat, Nantes, France; [Gaultier, Aurelie; Fournier, Jean-Pascal] Nantes Univ, Fac Med, Dept Med Gen, Nantes, France; [Le Sant, Guillaume] IFM3R, Sch Physiotherapy, 54 Rue Baugerie, F-44230 St Sebastien sur Loire, France								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001369252300001	41	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Anjie; Hurr, Chansol								Effect of Ischemic Preconditioning on Endurance Running Performance in the Heat								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			799	811		10.52082/jssm.2024.799			DEC 2024	2024	Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) is a strategy that may enhances endurance performance in thermoneutral environments. Exercising in the heat increases thermoregulatory and cardiovascular strain, decreasing endurance performance. The current study aimed to determine whether IPC administration improves endurance performance in the heat. In a randomized crossover design, 12 healthy subjects ( VO2max: 54.4 +/- 8.1 mL.kg(-1).min(-1)) underwent either IPC administration (220 mmHg) or a sham treatment (20 mmHg), then completed a moderate-intensity 6-min running (EX1) and a high-intensity time-to-exhaustion running test (EX2) in a hot environment (35 degrees C, 50 % RH). Cardiac function, oxygen consumption (VO2), and core body temperature (TCORE) were measured. During EX2, IPC administration increased the total running time in the heat compared to the sham treatment (IPC: 416.4 +/- 61.9 vs. sham 389.3 +/- 40.7 s, P = 0.027). IPC administration also increased stroke volume (IPC: 150.4 +/- 17.5 vs. sham: 128.2 +/- 11.6 ml, P = 0.008) and cardiac output (IPC: 27.4 +/- 1.7 vs. sham: 25.1 +/- 2.2 ml.min(-1), P = 0.007) during 100% isotime of EX2. End-exercise VO2 (IPC: 3.72 +/- 0.85 vs. sham: 3.54 +/- 0.87 L.min(-1), P = 0.017) and slow phase amplitude (IPC: 0.57 +/- 0.17 vs. sham: 0.72 +/- 0.22 L.min(-1), P = 0.016) were improved. When compared with the baseline period, an increase in T-CORE was less in the IPC condition during EX1 (IPC: 0.18 +/- 0.06 vs. sham: 0.22 +/- 0.08 degrees C, P = 0.005) and EX2 (IPC: 0.87 +/- 0.10 vs. sham: 1.03 +/- 0.10 degrees C, P < 0.001). IPC improves high-intensity endurance performance in the heat by 6.9 %. This performance benefit could be associated with improved cardiac and thermoregulatory function engendered by IPC administration.		[Wang, Anjie] Anhui Polytech Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Wuhu, Peoples R China; [Wang, Anjie; Hurr, Chansol] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Integrat Exercise Physiol Lab, Jeonju, South Korea; [Hurr, Chansol] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 567 Baekje Daero, Jeonju Si 54896, Jeollabuk Do, South Korea								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001363115500001	82	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Manuel Clemente, Filipe; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Rodriguez-Fernandez, Alejandro								Elastic Bands During Half-Squats as A Re-Warm-Up Strategy for Youth Soccer Players' Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			843	851		10.52082/jssm.2024.843			DEC 2024	2024	The study aimed to assess the immediate effects of re-warm-up strategies using half-squats with elastic looped bands on the performance of youth soccer players. A cross-over study design with repeated measures was implemented in field youth male soccer players (n = 20, age 15.7 +/- 0.8 years). Following the first 45-min of match play, players were subjected to one of four re-warm-up (Re-w) interventions of equal duration: no Re-w (PAS), half-squat without elastic looped bands (SQ), half-squat with bands placed on the thighs (SQT), and half-squat with bands placed on the lower legs (SQL). These interventions were compared against a control condition (CON). The Re-w protocols were initiated 10-min after half-time, and players' performance was evaluated through vertical and horizontal jump tests, 20-m linear sprint, and T-agility test. Statistical analysis using ANOVA revealed that the SQT and SQL interventions significantly improved (p < 0.001) several performance metrics compared to the PAS and SQ conditions. These improvements were observed in squat jumps, unilateral squat jumps (both dominant and non-dominant legs), countermovement jumps, horizontal jumps, triple horizontal jumps, the 20-m linear sprint, and T-agility performance. In conclusion, SQT and SQL are equally effective to enhance performance as Re-w strategies after the 1st-half of a soccer match. However, the lack of physiological data and 2nd-half assessments suggests the need for further research to confirm the persistence of these effects.		[Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Manuel Clemente, Filipe; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Rodriguez-Fernandez, Alejandro] Univ Pontificia Salamanca, Res Grp PRENDE, Salamanca, Spain; [Manuel Clemente, Filipe] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Manuel Clemente, Filipe] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res Innovat Ctr, Melgaco, Portugal; [Manuel Clemente, Filipe] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Andres Bello, Exercise & Rehabil Sci Inst, Sch Phys Therapy, Fac Rehabil Sci, Santiago, Chile; [Rodriguez-Fernandez, Alejandro] Univ Leon, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, VALFIS Res Grp, Leon, Spain; [Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier] Univ Pontificia Salamanca, Res Grp PRENDE, Salamanca, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001363113900001	47	Article; Article		
J	Thomakos, Pierros; Tsekos, Prokopis; Tselios, Zacharias; Spyrou, Konstantinos; Katsikas, Christos; Tsoukos, Athanasios; Bogdanis, Gregory C.								Effects of Two In-Season Short High-Intensity Interval Training Formats on Aerobic and Neuromuscular Performance in Young Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			812	821		10.52082/jssm.2024.812			DEC 2024	2024	Supplementary high-intensity interval training (HIIT) programs, focusing on different aspects of fitness, are commonly used in soccer practice. This study examined the impact of two different HIIT formats applied during the competitive season on aerobic and neuromuscular performance. Twenty-six young players from two youth amateur soccer teams (aged 18.1 +/- 0.7 and 18.7 +/- 1.1 years) participated. In a randomized design, Team A served as an experimental group, performing either a 10s/10s linear running HIIT or a 15s/15s HIIT with changes of direction, both at 100% of maximum aerobic speed, twice per week for six weeks. In that period, team B acted as a control group, maintaining their usual training soccer regimen. Following two weeks of lower volume and frequency training, team B added the two HIIT formats in their training for six weeks, while team A acted as control. Before and after each 6-weeks period, aerobic fitness and neuromuscular performance was evaluated by the countermovement jump (CMJ). The 3-way ANOVA showed that both HIIT formats significantly enhanced Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 1 (Yo-YO IR1) performance compared to the respective control periods. However, the main finding was that the 10s/10s compared with the 15s/15s HIIT format induced 45 - 50% greater improvements in Yo-YO IR1 (total distance: 18.5 +/- 11.7% vs. 9.0 +/- 8.5%, (V)over dotO2max: 5.6 +/- 3.2% vs. 3.0 +/- 2.7%, and v(V)over dotO2max: (3.3 +/- 1.9% vs. 1.8 +/- 1.7%, all p = 0.39, d = 0.85). Countermovement jump performance remained unchanged across both groups (p > 0.68). During HIIT rating of perceived exertion was higher in the 15s/15s vs. the 10s/10s format (6.4 +/- 0.5 vs. 4.7 +/- 1.2 a.u., p < 0.001). These findings suggest that while both HIIT formats effectively enhance aerobic performance during the season, the 10s/10s format offers superior benefits with less perceived exertion, while the 15s/15s format induces higher internal load.		[Thomakos, Pierros; Tsekos, Prokopis; Tselios, Zacharias; Katsikas, Christos; Tsoukos, Athanasios; Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens 17237, Greece; [Spyrou, Konstantinos] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens 17237, Greece								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001363114100001	47	Article; Article		
J	Cao, JianChun; Xun, SiHang; Zhang, Rui; Zhang, ZhaoJin								Effects of Unilateral, Bilateral and Combined Plyometric Jump Training on Asymmetry of Muscular Strength and Power, and Change-of-Direction in Youth Male Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			754	766		10.52082/jssm.2024.754			DEC 2024	2024	This study aimed to compare the effects of unilateral (UT), bilateral (BT), and combined (UBT) plyometric training on muscular strength, power, and change-of-direction performance in youth male basketball players. Sixty-six male youth basketball players (age: 16.1 +/- 0.8 years) participated in this randomized experimental study, which lasted 8 weeks with a training frequency of 2 sessions per week. The UT group performed only single-leg plyometric exercises, while the BT group conducted similar plyometric drills using both feet. The UBT group combined both approaches, performing one session of UT and one session of BT each week. The players were evaluated at baseline and after the 8-week period using a force platform for the unilateral counter-movement jump test (UCMJ), isometric squat test (IST), isometric knee flexor strength test (KFS), leg land and hold test (LHT), and 5 - 0 - 5 tests. The asymmetry between legs per outcome was measured using the symmetry angle. The UT, BT, and UBT all significantly improved outcomes in the IST, UCMJ, KFS, LHT, and 5 - 0 - 5 tests (p < 0.05) following the intervention, with no significant differences among the three methods. However, while UT and UBT significantly reduced asymmetries in the tests (p < 0.05), BT increased asymmetries. Only, the UT group showed significant improvements over the control group in asymmetry measures: IST asymmetry (mean difference: 1.2%, p = 0.049), KFS asymmetry (mean difference: 2.5%, p < 0.001), and LHT asymmetry (mean difference: 1.1%, p = 0.013). While there are no substantial differences among UT, BT, and UBT in terms of improvements in unilateral tests and symmetry levels, UT stands out for its effectiveness in enhancing neuromuscular performance and reducing asymmetries among basketball players compared to the control condition. UT was the only method that showed significant benefits in this context. Strength and conditioning coaches might consider incorporating UT, either alone or alongside BT, to optimize individual limb strength and coordination.		[Cao, JianChun] Udon Thani Rajabhat Univ, Phys Educ & Hlth Educ, Udon Thani, Thailand; [Xun, SiHang] Wannan Med Coll, Wuhu, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Rui; Zhang, ZhaoJin] Anhui Vocat Coll Def Technol, Luan 237011, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Zhang, ZhaoJin] Anhui Vocat Coll Def Technol, Luan 237011, Anhui, Peoples R China								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001338079900001	44	Article; Article		
J	Leppich, Robert; Kunz, Philipp; Bauer, Andre; Kounev, Samuel; Sperlich, Billy; Dueking, Peter								Prediction of Perceived Exertion Ratings in National Level Soccer Players Using Wearable Sensor Data and Machine Learning Techniques								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			744	753		10.52082/jssm.2024.744			DEC 2024	2024	This study aimed to identify relationships between external and internal load parameters with subjective ratings of perceived exertion (RPE). Consecutively, these relationships shall be used to evaluate different machine learning models and design a deep learning architecture to predict RPE in highly trained/national level soccer players. From a dataset comprising 5402 training sessions and 732 match observations, we gathered data on 174 distinct parameters, encompassing heart rate, GPS, accelerometer data and RPE (Borg's 0 - 10 scale) of 26 professional male professional soccer players. Nine machine learning algorithms and one deep learning architecture was employed. Rigorous preprocessing protocols were employed to ensure dataset equilibrium and minimize bias. The efficacy and generalizability of these models were evaluated through a systematic 5-fold cross-validation approach. The deep learning model exhibited highest predictive power for RPE (Mean Absolute Error: 1.08 +/- 0.07). Treebased machine learning models demonstrated high-quality predictions (Mean Absolute Error: 1.15 +/- 0.03) and a higher robustness against outliers. The strongest contribution to reducing the uncertainty of RPE with the tree-based machine learning models was maximal heart rate (determining 1.81% of RPE), followed by maximal acceleration (determining 1.48%) and total distance covered in speed zone 10 - 13 km/h (determining 1.44%). A multitude of external and internal parameters rather than a single variable are relevant for RPE prediction in highly trained/national level soccer players, with maximum heart rate having the strongest influence on RPE. The ExtraTree Machine Learning model exhibits the lowest error rates for RPE predictions, demonstrates applicability to players not specifically considered in this investigation, and can be run on nearly any modern computer platform.		[Leppich, Robert; Kounev, Samuel] Univ Wurzburg, Dept Comp Sci, Software Engn Grp, Wurzburg, Germany; [Kunz, Philipp; Sperlich, Billy] Univ Wurzburg, Inst Sport Sci, Integrat & Expt Exercise Sci & Training, Wurzburg, Germany; [Bauer, Andre] Illinois Inst Technol, Dept Comp Sci, Chicago, IL USA; [Dueking, Peter] Tech Univ Carolo Wilhelmina Braunschweig, Dept Sports Sci & Movement Pedag, Braunschweig, Germany; [Dueking, Peter] Tech Univ Carolo Wilhelmina Braunschweig, Dept Sports Sci & Movement Pedag, Braunschweig, Germany								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001335621800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Sano, Yuto; Kawabata, Masashi; Nakatani, Keito; Uchida, Yuto; Watanabe, Yuto; Tsuihiji, Yusuke; Ishii, Daisuke; Kenmoku, Tomonori; Watanabe, Hiroyuki; Takahira, Naonobu								Immediate Effects of Calf Tissue Flossing on Ankle Joint Torque and Dorsiflexion Range of Motion in Healthy Individuals: A Randomized Controlled Crossover Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			778	786		10.52082/jssm.2024.778			DEC 2024	2024	Tissue flossing involves wrapping a rubber band around a muscle group for a few minutes while performing joint motion, enhancing ankle joint torque and range of motion. As limited ankle dorsiflexion range of motion and plantar flexion muscle weakness are risk factors for sports injury, assessing the therapeutic effects of tissue flossing is important. This study aimed to evaluate the immediate effects of calf tissue flossing on enhancing ankle joint torque and dorsiflexion range of motion. We conducted a randomized controlled crossover trial involving 19 healthy adult males who received two interventions (low and high-pressure tissue flossing bands) and a control condition (underwrap). Each intervention was applied for 2 minutes on the non-dominant calf, with 5-10 days between sessions. A pressure sensor placed on the posterior calf monitored the wrapping compression force. The intervention exercise comprised six voluntary isometric contractions of the ankle at three angles (20 degrees plantar flexion, neutral 0 degrees, and 10 degrees dorsiflexion) for 3 seconds each using a dynamometer. The maximal isometric ankle plantar flexion torque and dorsiflexion range of motion were evaluated pre- and post-intervention. Significant interactions were observed in ankle plantar flexion torque at 10 degrees dorsiflexion (p < 0.01) but not at 0 degrees or 20 degrees plantar flexion. The low- and high-pressure bands significantly enhanced ankle plantar flexion torque by 4.3 Nm (effect size [ES]: 0.14, p = 0.02) and 4.9 Nm (ES: 0.15, p < 0.05), respectively, and also enhanced the ankle dorsiflexion range of motion by 1.7 degrees (ES: 0.43, p < 0.01) and 1.3 degrees (ES: 0.35, p = 0.02), respectively, compared to the control. The low- and high-pressure band conditions had comparable effects on torque and range of motion. A few minutes of the calf tissue flossing intervention significantly enhanced ankle plantar flexion torque and dorsiflexion range of motion, although the effect sizes were trivial to small.		[Sano, Yuto; Kawabata, Masashi; Uchida, Yuto; Watanabe, Yuto; Watanabe, Hiroyuki; Takahira, Naonobu] Kitasato Univ, Phys Therapy Sports & Musculoskeletal Syst, Grad Sch Med Sci, 1-15-1 Kitazato,Minami Ku, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 2520373, Japan; [Sano, Yuto] Yokohama Sports Med Ctr, Dept Rehabil, Yokohama, Japan; [Kawabata, Masashi; Watanabe, Hiroyuki; Takahira, Naonobu] Kitasato Univ, Dept Rehabil, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, 1-15-1 Kitazato,Minami Ku, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 2520373, Japan; [Nakatani, Keito] IMS Tokyo Katsushika Gen Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Katsushika, Japan; [Tsuihiji, Yusuke] Keiyu Orthopaed Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Tatebayashi, Japan; [Ishii, Daisuke] Funabashi Orthoped Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Funabashi, Japan; [Kenmoku, Tomonori] Kitasato Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sch Med, Sagamihara, Japan; [Kawabata, Masashi] Kitasato Univ, Phys Therapy Sports & Musculoskeletal Syst, Grad Sch Med Sci, 1-15-1 Kitazato,Minami Ku, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 2520373, Japan; [Kawabata, Masashi] Kitasato Univ, Dept Rehabil, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, 1-15-1 Kitazato,Minami Ku, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 2520373, Japan								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001333057900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Shi, Qingde; Nie, Jinlei; Tong, Tomas K.; Zhang, Haifeng; Kong, Zhaowei								Effects of 5-Wk Repeated Sprint Training in Hypoxia on Global Inspiratory and Core Muscle Functions								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			767	777		10.52082/jssm.2024.767			DEC 2024	2024	Repeated-sprint training in hypoxia (RSH) has been shown to boost team-sport players' repeated-sprint ability (RSA). Whether players' global inspiratory muscle (IM) and core muscle (CM) functions would be altered concomitantly with RSH was not reported. This study was designed to compare the concomitant alternations in players' RSA and their IM and CM functions during a team-sport-specific intermittent exercise protocol (IEP) before and after the intervention. Twenty players were assigned into either RSH or control (CON) groups (n = 10 for each). RSH players participated in 5-wk RSH (15 sessions, 3 sets 5x5-s all-out treadmill sprints interspersed with 25-s passive recovery under the hypoxia of 13.5%) while CON players had no corresponding training. The changes in RSA between pre- and post-intervention, and the alterations in IM and CM functions that were revealed by maximum inspiratory mouth pressure (PImax) and sport-specific endurance plank test (SEPT) performance, respectively, between pre- and post-IEP and across pre- and post-intervention in the RSH group were compared with that of CON. Following the 5wk RSH, players' RSA improved significantly (>6%, p < 0.05) while PImax and SEPT performance did not alter (P > 0.05). Nevertheless, PImax which declined markedly in pre-intervention IEP (pre-IEP 155.4 +/- 22.7 vs post-IEP 140.6 +/- 22.8 cmH(2)O, p < 0.05) was alleviated significantly in post-intervention IEP (152.2 +/- 27.4 vs 152.6 +/- 31.8, p > 0.05), while the concomitant declined SEPT performance in the pre-intervention IEP (155 +/- 24.6 vs 98.1 +/- 21.7 s, p < 0.05) was retained post intervention (170.7 +/- 38.1 vs 100.5 +/- 33.4, p < 0.05). For the CON, all variables were unchanged (p > 0.05). Such findings suggest that 5-wk RSH could enhance players' RSA but not global IM and CM functions. Nonetheless, the decline in PImax in pre-intervention IEP alleviated significantly post intervention led to a postulation that players' IM endurance, rather than strength, might improve with the 5-wk RSH regimen, while the possible improved IM endurance did not advance the fatigue resistance of CM.		[Shi, Qingde; Nie, Jinlei] Macao Polytech Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Sports, Rua Luis Gonzaga Gomes, Macau, Peoples R China; [Tong, Tomas K.] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dr Stephen Hui Res Ctr Phys Recreat & Wellness, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Haifeng] Hebei Normal Univ, Phys Educ Coll, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, Peoples R China; [Kong, Zhaowei] Univ Macau, Fac Educ, Macau, Peoples R China; [Nie, Jinlei] Macao Polytech Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Sports, Rua Luis Gonzaga Gomes, Macau, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001333070100001	52	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Qingwen; Wang, Wanglong; Shu, Chuan								Effects of Short Sprint Interval Training Frequency on Physical and Physiological Performance Adaptations in Male Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	4			707	717		10.52082/jssm.2024.707			DEC 2024	2024	The study aimed to evaluate the effects of varying frequencies (1 vs. 2 vs. 3) of short sprint interval training (sSIT) on young male soccer players' physical performance and physiological parameters. Forty young male soccer players were randomly assigned to four experimental groups engaging in 36 trials sSIT for a duration of 6 weeks as follows: once weekly (1sSIT = 4 sets of 9 x 5 sec all-out runs), twice weekly (2sSIT = 2 sets of 9 x 5 sec all-out runs), and three times weekly (3sSIT = 2 sets of 6 x 5 sec all-out runs), or an active control group which continued their soccer practice routines. Before and after the 6-week training period, physical performance (countermovement vertical jump, 20-m sprint, Illinois change of direction, Yo-Yo intermittent recovery level 1 [Yo-Yo IR 1] and kicking distance) and physiological parameters (cardiorespiratory fitness, peak and average power output) were evaluated. All sSIT groups demonstrated significant (p < 0.01) and small to very large training effects (i.e., effect size) on measured parameters. More importantly, a comparison of inter-individual variability in the adaptive changes revealed that the 3sSIT group results in lower residuals in changes in cardiorespiratory fitness and anaerobic power, coupled with lower coefficient of variations in the mean group changes and perceived exertion throughout the training period. The findings indicate that incorporating one, two, or three weekly sessions of sSIT into routine soccer training can lead to similar enhancements in soccer players' physiological and performance adaptations. More importantly, higher training frequencies result in more homogenized adaptations among team members by reducing inter-individual variability in the magnitude of the adaptive responses.		[Liu, Qingwen; Wang, Wanglong; Shu, Chuan] Jiangxi Sci & Technol Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Nanchang 330038, Peoples R China; [Shu, Chuan] Jiangxi Sci & Technol Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Nanchang 330038, Peoples R China								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001317420500001	43	Article; Article		
J	Sanchis, Geronimo Jose Bouzas; Resende, Renan Alves; Martins, Paula de Farias Fernandes; Silva, Samuel; de Mello, Marco Tulio; Mohmara, Yasser Alakhdar; Silva, Andressa								Season changes in performance of upper limbs and trunk in para swimmers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				31	35		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.11.007			JAN 2025	2025	Objectives: To evaluate upper limb performance, trunk extensor endurance, and serratus anterior strength in para swimmers over a sports season. Design: A cohort study conducted over eleven months. Settings: Three assessments were performed at pre-season, mid-season, and post-season, evaluating the CKCUEST, Sorensen Test, and isometric strength of the serratus anterior. Participants: Twelve para swimmers from a sports center. Main outcome measures: Generalized Mixed Models were used to assess seasonal changes and the influence of sex, age, type of impairment, and season phase. Coefficients of variation for each variable were calculated along with 95% confidence intervals (CIs), with a 5% significance level. Results: Sorensen Test values decreased during the season (C: 22.0; CI: 33.9 to -10.4; p < 0.01). A serratus anterior isometric strength difference was observed post-season between para athletes with motor impairments and those with visual/intellectual impairments on the dominant side (C: 3.3; CI: 6.2 to -0.5; p = 0.02). Conclusion: Sorensen Test values declined in mid-season, and para athletes with motor impairments showed lower serratus anterior strength in post-season. CKCUEST values remained stable throughout the season.		[Sanchis, Geronimo Jose Bouzas; Resende, Renan Alves; Martins, Paula de Farias Fernandes; Silva, Samuel; de Mello, Marco Tulio; Silva, Andressa] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Sanchis, Geronimo Jose Bouzas; Mohmara, Yasser Alakhdar] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Silva, Samuel] Dalhousie Univ, Dept Community Hlth & Epidemiol, Halifax, NS, Canada; [de Mello, Marco Tulio] Univ Autonoma Chile, Fac Hlth Sci, Providencia, Chile; [Silva, Andressa] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Ave Pres Antonio Carlos,6627 Campus Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001372946900001	29	Article; Article		
J	Blumenfeld, Magnus Bye; Straszek, Christian Lund; Holden, Sinead; Thorborg, Kristian; Rathleff, Michael Skovdal								Changes in daily sedentary time, in adolescents with long-standing knee pain, during a management strategy including activity modification: An ancillary analysis of two clinical trials								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				25	30		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.11.003			JAN 2025	2025	Objectives: The aim was to investigate changes in sedentary time during an activity modification strategy for sports-active adolescents with patellofemoral pain (PFP) and Osgood-Schlatter (OSD). Design: Explorative ancillary analysis of two different prospective clinical trials with two different endpoint timelines. Methods: 202 adolescents with either PFP or OSD were included. ActiGraph GT3X + objectively measured sedentary time before, during, and after adolescents were instructed to modify sports participation, requiring a minimum of 4 days with 10 h of wear time. Daily sedentary time was calculated from >= 10 min of consecutive bouts. Results: 138 adolescents with PFP and 47 with OSD were eligible for inclusion. Adolescents with PFP had a nonsignificant increase of 14min/day change in sedentary time from baseline to during the activity modification. Adolescents with OSD had non-significant increases of 9min/day and 0min/day in sedentary time from baseline to immediately following the activity modification period and at the 12 weeks follow-up. There was variability in the individual adolescents' sedentary time during the intervention. Conclusion: Activity modification in adolescents with PFP or OSD was associated with none, or only small systematic changes in sedentary time.		[Blumenfeld, Magnus Bye; Straszek, Christian Lund; Holden, Sinead; Rathleff, Michael Skovdal] Aalborg Univ, Fac Med, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Aalborg, Denmark; [Blumenfeld, Magnus Bye; Straszek, Christian Lund; Holden, Sinead; Rathleff, Michael Skovdal] Aalborg Univ, Ctr Gen Practice, Dept Clin Med, Aalborg, Denmark; [Thorborg, Kristian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, Amager Hvidovre, Denmark; [Holden, Sinead] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Med, Dublin 4, Ireland; [Blumenfeld, Magnus Bye] Aalborg Univ, Fredrik Bajers Vej 7E, DK-9220 Aalborg, Denmark								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001370505000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Hsu, Wei-Hsiu; Fan, Chun-Hao; Yu, Pei-An; Kuo, Liang-Tseng; Chen, Chi-Lung; Chan, Yi-Sheng; Hsu, Robert Wen-Wei								Progressive resistance training improves single-leg vertical jump after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: Non-randomized controlled trial study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				16	24		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.10.006			JAN 2025	2025	Objectives: The study was investigating the effect of a progressive resistance training program on the recovery of patients with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction in terms of kinematics, kinetics and muscle strength. Design: Longitudinal cohort study. Setting: Hospital laboratory. Participants: Of the 42 patients were finally included: 22 patients in the progressive resistance training group and 20 in the control group. Main outcome measures: Questionnaire, single-leg vertical jump, and muscle strength were collected preoperatively and at 16, 28 weeks, and 1 year postoperatively. Results: At 28 weeks, the height of the single-leg vertical jump for the injured knee was 203 and 157 mm (p = 0.045) and the peak knee flexion angle after landing for the injured knee was 31 degrees and 23 degrees (p = 0.027) in the progressive resistance training and control groups, respectively. The progressive resistance training group showed a significant increase in the knee extensor symmetry index after the 24-week exercise training compared from 58% preoperatively to 79% (p = 0.001) after training completion, which lasted up to 1 year postoperatively. Conclusion: Progressive resistance training significantly improved knee extensor symmetry, single-leg vertical jump height, and peak knee flexion angle after landing, outperforming the control group across all measures.		[Hsu, Wei-Hsiu; Yu, Pei-An; Kuo, Liang-Tseng; Chen, Chi-Lung; Hsu, Robert Wen-Wei] Chang Gung Mem Hosp Chia Yi, Sports Med Ctr, Chiayi, Taiwan; [Hsu, Wei-Hsiu; Yu, Pei-An; Kuo, Liang-Tseng; Chen, Chi-Lung; Hsu, Robert Wen-Wei] Chang Gung Mem Hosp Chia Yi, Dept Orthoped Surg, Chiayi, Taiwan; [Hsu, Wei-Hsiu] Chang Gung Univ, Sch Med, Tao Yuan, Taiwan; [Fan, Chun-Hao] Yanshuei Elementary Sch, Off Students Affairs, Tainan, Taiwan; [Chan, Yi-Sheng] Chang Gung Mem Hosp Keelung, Dept Orthoped Surg, Keelung, Taiwan; [Hsu, Wei-Hsiu] Chang Gung Mem Hosp Chia Yi, Sports Med Ctr, Chiayi, Taiwan								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001396177700001	69	Article; Article		
J	Kirk, T. N.; McKay, Cathy; Holland, Katherine								"A Kind of Therapy": Wheelchair Sport Athletes and Health-Related Quality of Life								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			426	438		10.1080/02701367.2024.2419455			APR 3 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to understand the meaning physically impaired1 wheelchair sport athletes attributed to wheelchair basketball participation as well as potential physical, psychological, and social health-related quality of life (HRQOL) benefits. Specifically, the experiences of wheelchair sport athletes from low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) affected by ongoing or recent conflict were examined. Focus group participants for this study included 108 wheelchair basketball athletes (77 men and 31 women) from seven men's and three women's national teams at an international wheelchair basketball tournament held in India. All teams were from LMICs in Africa and Asia that were served by the International Committee of the Red Cross due to recent or ongoing armed conflict. Data analysis produced three interrelated themes related to HRQOL: (1) improvements to physical health, (2) psychological impact of sport participation, and (3) social well-being. Physical benefits included improvements to physical functional capacity and decreases in medical complications. Psychological benefits included freedom and respite from inaccessibility and improved self-beliefs and feelings of capability on and off the court. Social well-being benefits included camaraderie in the team setting and positive interpersonal interactions with members of the broader community. Overall, the findings indicated that wheelchair sport is indicated as positively impacting numerous HRQOL indicators for disabled participants in LMIC and is a valuable rehabilitative option and meaningful endeavor for disabled persons.		[Kirk, T. N.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, 330 River Rd,Room 349, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [McKay, Cathy] James Madison Univ, Harrisonburg, VA 22807 USA; [Holland, Katherine] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Alesund, Norway; [Kirk, T. N.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, 330 River Rd,Room 349, Athens, GA 30602 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001361013400001	63	Article; Article		
J	Chang, Edward C.								The Happy and Hopeful NCAA Division I Athlete: Predicting Well-Being and Ill-Being in Elite Student-Athletes Who Participate in Sport								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			407	417		10.1080/02701367.2024.2415370			APR 3 2025	2025	The role of hope and happiness in accounting for mental health, both well-being (viz. life satisfaction & flourishing) and ill-being (depressive symptoms & suicidal ideation), using a cross-sectional design, was examined in a diverse sample of 140 elite student-athletes (88 female & 52 male NCAA Division I athletes, representing 16 different varsity sports, Mage = 20.0) who completed a battery of self-report measures. Results from conducting a series of hierarchical regression analyses, controlling for demographic factors and perceived sport performance (individual & team), indicated hope and happiness (as a positive personality set) accounted for additional unique variance in all indices of well-being and ill-being. However, although happiness emerged as a significant statistical predictor of all indices of well-being and ill-being, hope only emerged as a significant statistical predictor across indices of well-being. Importantly, the inclusion of the Hope x Happiness interaction term consistently added further incremental validity to the prediction of additional unique variance in all indices of mental health in student-athletes. However, evidence for the doubling-up hypothesis was only found in predicting indices of well-being, not ill-being. Taken together, the present findings provide strong evidence for the importance of integrating positive individual differences variables for understanding mental health in elite student-athletes.		[Chang, Edward C.] Univ Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Chang, Edward C.] Univ Michigan, Dept Psychol, 530 Church St, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001359385400001	52	Article; Article		
J	Mine, Koya; Jones, Mark; Saunders, Steve; Onofrio, Ben; Crowther, Robert G.; Milanese, Steve								Relationships between upper trunk rotation kinematics and arm fatigue after repetitive pitching among baseball pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			2134	2147		10.1080/14763141.2024.2431901			JUL 3 2025	2025	Early upper trunk rotation during baseball pitching has been associated with higher upper-limb kinetics. However, its relationship with arm fatigue after repetitive pitching is unclear. This study aimed to investigate associations between upper trunk rotation kinematics and arm fatigue. A total of 14 healthy male pitchers (age 27.1 +/- . 9.0 yrs) threw 45 pitches across three innings. Pitching mechanics and ball velocity were assessed using 3-D motion analysis (Vicon, UK) and Rapsodo (Rapsodo, USA). Subjective arm fatigue was assessed by CR-10 Borg scale, whereas grip and shoulder external rotation strength were evaluated before and after pitching sessions. Ball velocity and the timing of upper trunk rotation did not change significantly throughout the three innings. Three-inning pitching produced significant levels of subjective and objective arm fatigue. The onset timing of upper trunk rotation (OTUTR) had significant effects on CR-10 Borg scale and ball velocity. The magnitude of effect of OTUTR on ball velocity may be clinically significant. These findings suggest that the timing of upper trunk rotation may not significantly affect arm fatigue with relatively low pitch counts, and early OTUTR may lead to early reduction in ball velocity.		[Mine, Koya; Jones, Mark; Saunders, Steve; Onofrio, Ben; Crowther, Robert G.; Milanese, Steve] Univ South Australia, Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Saunders, Steve] Saunders Physiotherapy, Physiotherapy, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Onofrio, Ben] Adelaide Giants, Physiotherapy, West Lakes, SA, Australia; [Crowther, Robert G.] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Milanese, Steve] Univ Tasmania, Sch Hlth Sci, Hobart, Tas, Australia; [Mine, Koya] Univ South Australia, Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide, SA, Australia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001360330700001	41	Article; Article		
J	Phillips, Rebecca; Sousa, Fernando; Oskouei, Sanam Tavakkoli; Farlie, Melanie; Morrissey, Dylan; Malliaras, Peter								Optimising physiotherapist delivery fidelity of exercise and physical activity advice for achilles tendinopathy: A prospective repeated-measures observational study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				71				8	15		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.11.002			JAN 2025	2025	Objectives: To assess physiotherapist delivery fidelity and identify factors optimising delivery fidelity of an intervention based on recommended guidelines for Achilles tendinopathy. Design: A prospective repeated-measures observational study of physiotherapist delivery fidelity with carefully defined exercise and physical activity advice. Setting: An inter-disciplinary clinic in Melbourne, Australia, embedded in a randomised controlled trial. Participants: Two physiotherapists delivering the intervention to five participants each, at three timepoints. Intervention: All participants were expected to receive the same intervention. Feedback at timepoint one, guided boost-training to optimise delivery fidelity. Main outcome measures: Proportion of exercise and physical activity advice components delivered as intended (high >= 80%; moderate 51-79%; low <= 50%), with relationships between variables analysed using chi-square tests. Results: Physiotherapist delivery fidelity improved significantly between timepoint one and two (chi 2 = 83.3, p < 0.001), then sustained at timepoint three. At timepoint one, seven (70%) of intervention components were delivered with high fidelity, one (10%) with moderate fidelity and two (20%) with low fidelity. At timepoint two, after boost-training, nine (90%) were delivered with high fidelity and one (10%) with moderate fidelity. At timepoint three, all intervention components (100%) were delivered with high fidelity by both physiotherapists. Conclusion: Physiotherapist delivery fidelity can be optimised with feedback, collaboration and boost-training.		[Phillips, Rebecca; Sousa, Fernando; Oskouei, Sanam Tavakkoli; Farlie, Melanie; Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Physiotherapy Dept, Bldg B,Peninsula Campus,Moorooduc Highway, Frankston, Vic 3199, Australia; [Morrissey, Dylan] Queen Mary Univ London, Sch Med & Dent, WHRI, Sport & Exercise Med, London, England; [Morrissey, Dylan] Mile End Hosp, Bancroft Rd, London E1 4DG, England; [Morrissey, Dylan] Barts Hlth NHS Trust, Physiotherapy Dept, London, England; [Phillips, Rebecca] Charles Sturt Univ, Sch Allied Hlth & Sports Sci, Orange, NSW 2800, Australia; [Farlie, Melanie] Monash Univ, Monash Ctr Scholarship Hlth Profess Educ, Clayton, Vic 3168, Australia; [Phillips, Rebecca] Monash Univ, Physiotherapy Dept, Bldg B,Peninsula Campus,Moorooduc Highway, Frankston, Vic 3199, Australia; [Phillips, Rebecca] Charles Sturt Univ, Sch Allied Hlth & Sports Sci, Orange, NSW 2800, Australia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001362721600001	41	Article; Article		
J	Concon, Vinicius; Kobal, Ronaldo; Carvalho, Leonardo; do Carmo, Everton Crivoi; Coimbra, David; Barroso, Renato								Y The effect of real-time visual feedback and verbal encouragement on repetition velocity of squat, bench press and deadlift exercises in competitive powerlifters								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			275	280		10.1177/17479541241298189			FEB 1 2025	2025	This study aimed to compare the effects of real-time visual feedback, verbal encouragement, and no-feedback control condition on repetition velocity. Twelve highly-trained powerlifters (10 men and 2 women) participated in a crossover-designed experiment, performing the same training session under three conditions: real-time visual feedback (VF), verbal encouragement (VE), and control. The training session involved three sets of four repetitions in the squat, bench press, and deadlift exercises, with a workload set at 70% of one-repetition maximum (1RM). Repetition velocity was measured using a linear encoder. In the VF condition, participants observed their velocity on a mobile screen after each repetition. In the VE condition, participants received verbal encouragement without access to velocity information on the screen. The Control condition provided no feedback. A mixed model analysis was used to compare velocity across repetitions, sets, and conditions. Results revealed differences between the control condition and both VE and VF in the squat and bench press exercises (p<0.05). Only in the VF condition, velocity was higher than control in the deadlift exercise (p<0.05). Coaches and practitioners are encouraged to use real-time visual feedback and/or verbal encouragement during training to enhance repetition velocity. Incorporating these feedback strategies during strength training of highly-trained powerlifters can improve velocity performance.		[Concon, Vinicius; Kobal, Ronaldo; Carvalho, Leonardo; Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Ave Erico Verissimo 701,Cidade Univ, BR-13083851 Campinas, SP, Brazil; [do Carmo, Everton Crivoi] Hosp Israelita Albert Einstein, Ctr Reabilitacao Espaco Einstein Esporte & Reabil, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Kobal, Ronaldo] Sport Club Corinthians Paulista, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Coimbra, David] Univ Paulista, Ctr Estudos Fisiol Exercicio & Treinamento CEFIT, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Ave Erico Verissimo 701,Cidade Univ, BR-13083851 Campinas, SP, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001359401100001	22	Article; Article		
J	Bicudo, Filipe Oliveira; Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi; da Silva Azevedo, Ana Paula; Pedrosa, Gustavo Ferreira; Castro, Henrique de Oliveira								Match-play running demands of professional female rugby sevens: Comparison of ball-in-play, worst-case scenarios and game phases in Super Sevens 2023								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			203	209		10.1177/17479541241298587			FEB 1 2025	2025	A gray area remains about the intensity of efforts performed in Sevens competitions, especially during the worst-case scenarios (WCS - longest effort during a match). For this reason, the analysis of demands during the ball-in-play (BIP) is increasing in team sports like Rugby Sevens. Through this method, we can also identify the WCS and the demands of distinct phases of play (attack, defense, and transition). Thus, this study aimed to (i) investigate and compare the BIP and WCS external load (EL) demands (distance per minute, sprint distance per minute, and accelerations per minute) during matches; and (ii) compare the BIP running demands across different game phases (attack, defense, and transition). Twenty-one female professional Rugby Sevens players participated, with their running demands analyzed during every BIP phase in all 20 matches of the Super Sevens 2023 using individual GPS tracking. The results indicated no significant differences in any EL variables between WCS and BIP averages. Furthermore, there were no differences in EL experienced by athletes during different phases and actions. In summary, our findings suggest that both the WCS and the BIP methods result in similar EL values across matches. Additionally, the EL remains consistent across different game periods (first half vs. second half) and actions (defense, attack, and transition). These results offer practical guidance for coaches when planning training sessions for female Rugby Sevens athletes, suggesting that preparation focused on WCS may effectively prepare athletes for the entire game.		[Bicudo, Filipe Oliveira; da Silva Azevedo, Ana Paula; Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Mato Grosso UFMT, Cuiaba, MT, Brazil; [Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Governador Valadares, MG, Brazil; [Pedrosa, Gustavo Ferreira] Univ Fed Santa Maria UFSM, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Dept Phys Educ, Fac Educ Fis, Ave Fernando Correa da Costa 2367, BR-78060900 Cuiaba, MT, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001357917100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Goddard, Scott G.; Dossetor, Jacqueline; Barry, Sophia; Lawrence, Alex; Stevens, Christopher J.; Swann, Christian								"It Took Away the Trauma of Failing": A Mixed Methods Feasibility Trial of an Open Goals Physical Activity Program								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			389	400		10.1080/02701367.2024.2412661			APR 3 2025	2025	Open goals (e.g. to "see how many steps you can reach today") may be a promising strategy for promoting physical activity. The findings from initial studies, typically based on single sessions of exercise, showed that open goals can produce at least as much activity as specific goals (e.g. to reach 10,000 steps a day), while promoting more positive experiences and higher intentions to repeat the activity, especially among less active individuals. However, the feasibility of using open goals over a longer duration remains unclear. Therefore, in this study, we examined the feasibility of using open goals in a 10-week step-based physical activity program. A single-arm mixed methods design was used, involving 15 healthy adults (13 female; Mage = 42.53) with low to moderate physical activity levels. Participants were provided with a pedometer, diary, and open goals for each week, alongside brief support sessions. The feasibility domains assessed included recruitment, acceptability, adherence, and retention. Quantitative methods assessed physical activity, enjoyment, and self-efficacy, while supplementary qualitative methods explored participants' perceptions of open goals. The study showed high recruitment and retention rates, increased physical activity, and positive psychological experiences, indicating the feasibility of the 10-week open-goal program. Secondary outcomes suggest that open goals may function by increasing enjoyment and self-efficacy while decreasing negative outcomes such as pressure, guilt, and failure. The findings indicate that using open goals in longer-term physical activity programs is feasible, expanding on the limitations of previous single-session designs, and offering recommendations for future trials.		[Goddard, Scott G.; Dossetor, Jacqueline; Barry, Sophia; Lawrence, Alex; Stevens, Christopher J.; Swann, Christian] Southern Cross Univ, Coffs Harbour, Australia; [Goddard, Scott G.] Southern Cross Univ, Fac Hlth, Coffs Harbour 2450, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001358473900001	56	Article; Article		
J	Iitake, Tsuyoshi; Nunome, Hiroyuki								Difference in the contribution of the support leg to generating interaction torque in soccer instep kicking between female and male players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	1			112	126		10.1080/14763141.2024.2427686			JAN 2 2025	2025	The study aimed to clarify the difference in the support leg dynamics and its mechanical role in producing the interaction torque acting on the kicking leg knee between female and male soccer players. Three-dimensional motion (500 Hz) and the ground reaction force (1000 Hz) were captured during the instep kicking of twenty female and twenty male players. Powers due to the support leg knee joint torque and the interaction torque were computed. A significantly smaller positive power of the interaction torque due to the support leg action seen in female players concurred with a significantly smaller positive knee joint power in the support leg. In contrast, female players exhibited a comparable positive power of the interaction torque due to the kicking leg action. Female players had a unique, more inclined lower leg posture of the kicking leg to compensate for their lesser power of the interaction torque due to the support leg action, thereby achieving a comparable magnitude of the power of the total interaction torque. Based on the dynamic background, they maintain a comparable lower leg angular velocity to that of male players immediately before ball impact.		[Iitake, Tsuyoshi; Nunome, Hiroyuki] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Jonan ku, Fukuoka, Japan; [Iitake, Tsuyoshi] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Jonan ku, Fukuoka, Japan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001357503100001	23	Article; Article		
J	Fujimori, Toshihide; Tobe, Naoto; Sado, Natsuki								Joint kinetic demand for performance in high jump								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	3			343	357		10.1080/14763141.2024.2427684			MAR 4 2026	2026	High jump is a power-demanding motor task. Jumpers extend the take-off leg joints with maximum effort, but kinetic requirements (i.e. torque/power) for each joint are unclear. Here we show the inter-joint differences in the kinetic exertion related to the flight height in high jump trials by 16 male high jumpers (personal best record: 1.90-2.35 m). For the knee joint, both maximum net power and maximum norm of torque were significantly and positively correlated with flight height, with a stronger correlation for maximum net power (r = 0.70) than for maximum norm of torque (r = 0.52). For the hip joint, maximum norm of torque was significantly correlated with flight height (r = 0.62), but maximum net power (r = 0.36) was not. Both torque and power exhibited the proximal-to-distal sequence (from hip to ankle). The norm of ground reaction force peaked almost simultaneously with the hip torque while external net power peaked with knee power. We suggest that the required musculoskeletal function of each joint differs even in the same task. We suggest that it may be effective to adapt the different training programme between joints to improve performance. Jumpers should prioritise torque exertion for the hip and power exertion for the knee.		[Fujimori, Toshihide] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Fujimori, Toshihide] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Tobe, Naoto] Japan Airlines Co Ltd, NRE Tennozu Bldg, Tokyo, Japan; [Sado, Natsuki] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Sado, Natsuki] Univ Tsukuba, Adv Res Initiat Human High Performance ARIHHP, Tsukuba, Japan; [Sado, Natsuki] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Sado, Natsuki] Univ Tsukuba, Adv Res Initiat Human High Performance ARIHHP, Tsukuba, Japan								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001355093300001	45	Article; Article		
J	Connolly, Darragh R.; Stolp, Sean; Gualtieri, Antonio; Franceschi, Alberto; Ferrari Bravo, Duccio; Rampinini, Ermanno; Coutts, Aaron J.								How do young soccer players train? A 5-year analysis of weekly microcycle training load characteristics in an elite youth academy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			130	138		10.1177/17479541241292765			FEB 1 2025	2025	This study aimed to describe the distribution of training load (session rating of perceived exertion (sRPE), duration, and sRPE-training load) across weekly microcycles of an elite youth academy and assess the differences between four different age groups (U15-U16-U17-U19). Training load variables were recorded during in-season training weeks over 5 competitive seasons (from 2014-15 to 2018-19, evaluating new squads for each age group each season) for a total of 456 player observations. Mixed models assessed the variability of the three load variables across the different training days of a weekly microcycle and between the four different age groups. Estimated marginal means, 95% confidence intervals (CI), and effect sizes (d) were calculated for each training day of the microcycle. The main findings were significant differences in the training load variables three and four days before the next Match Day (i.e., MD-3 and MD-4, respectively), with U15 recording lower sRPE (-2.0 AU, d=0.43-0.72) and U19 a lower duration (-35 min, d<-1.10). All age groups reduced sRPE-training load in the two days before a match, mainly due to a decrease in training duration (-160 AU & -17 min respectively). Match days provided the highest training loads within the weekly microcycle, with moderate-to-large differences between the four age groups (d=0.77, 1.16 and 1.38 for U15 vs U16-U17-U19 respectively). The low variability in sRPE values in the three central sessions of a weekly microcycle indicates that training duration is an important factor to control when aiming to manipulate within-week training loads in elite youth soccer players.		[Connolly, Darragh R.; Gualtieri, Antonio; Franceschi, Alberto; Ferrari Bravo, Duccio] Juventus Football Club, Sport Sci & R&D Dept, Turin, Italy; [Connolly, Darragh R.; Stolp, Sean; Rampinini, Ermanno; Coutts, Aaron J.] Univ Technol Sydney, Human Performance Res Ctr, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Gualtieri, Antonio] Suffolk Univ, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Ipswich, Suffolk, England; [Franceschi, Alberto] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Rampinini, Ermanno] Human Performance Lab, Mapei Sport Res Ctr, Olgiate Olona, Italy; [Connolly, Darragh R.] Juventus Football Club, Sport Sci & R&D Dept, Turin, Italy								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001355880800001	38	Article; Article		
J	Samuel, Roy David; Galily, Yair; Englert, Chris; Basevitch, Itay								Football referees issue more yellow cards following VAR interventions - mental, tactical, and performance considerations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			184	192		10.1177/17479541241289078			FEB 1 2025	2025	VAR (video assistant referee) presents a human-technology interface that was designed to improve referees' ability to make accurate decisions in key match incidents. VAR interventions are pivotal moments in football matches, challenging referees' critical decisions and potentially affecting their perceived ability to manage the game. This study aimed to investigate how referees handle VAR interventions in terms of game management and control. Through statistical analyses, we examined 120 real-match VAR interventions in penalty incidents from the Israeli Premier League, focusing on the number of fouls and yellow cards before and after the VAR interventions. Our findings revealed a significant impact (d=0.40) on yellow cards but not on fouls. Remarkably, referees issued twice the number of yellow cards (normalized per playing minute) following a VAR intervention, irrespective of the time it occurred during the match (i.e., first or second half). These results are discussed within the framework of current research and theories concerning self-control and game management in football refereeing. The increased issuance of yellow cards following VAR interventions suggests that teams may be at a higher risk of receiving disciplinary actions, which can potentially impact their performance and increase the likelihood of losing matches. Consequently, we provide practical recommendations for referee training and match preparation as well as for teams.		[Samuel, Roy David] Reichman Univ, Baruch Ivcher Sch Psychol, 8 Hauniversuta St,POB 167, IL-4610101 Herzliyya, Israel; [Galily, Yair] Reichman Univ, Sammy Ofer Sch Commun, Herzliyya, Israel; [Englert, Chris] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Dept Sports Sci, Frankfurt, Germany; [Basevitch, Itay] Texas A&M Univ Kingsville, Hlth & Kinesiol, Kingsville, TX USA; [Samuel, Roy David] Reichman Univ, Baruch Ivcher Sch Psychol, 8 Hauniversuta St,POB 167, IL-4610101 Herzliyya, Israel								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001355135500001	39	Article; Article		
J	Agca, Talip; Akdag, Eren; Ozdogan, Emel Cetin								The effects of horizontal deceleration training on sprint and countermovement jump neuromuscular performance qualities								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3312	3322		10.1080/14763141.2024.2427689			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study examined the effect of 6-week training to improve horizontal deceleration ability on sprint acceleration and countermovement jump (CMJ) neuromuscular performance (NMP) parameters. Twenty male soccer players were divided into the training (TRA), and the control (CON) group. Pre-and post-training players performed an acceleration-deceleration ability test (ADA) and a jump on a vertical axis dual force plate. ADA deceleration parameters were analysed using Kinovea Software. Distance-to-stop (DTS), time-to-stop (TTS), 20 m sprint time (t20 m), CMJ parameters were measured at pre-post-training. The largest improvement was determined in the TRA in the t20 m (effect size = 0.88). Despite the increase in the weight of the TRA, t20 m was shortened by 5.62% in TRA and 1.91% in CON. Deceleration ability was evaluated with CMJ eccentric parameters. While the percentage change of eccentric peak force differed between the groups, eccentric peak power (11.84 vs. 14.57 W<middle dot>kg-1, ds: 0.72) and velocity (0.91 vs. 1.05 m.s-1, ds: 0.70) increased. Accordingly, it was determined that the improvement in CMJ eccentric and concentric peak velocity was due to speed-based power output. The training improved the maximum horizontal deceleration ability and confirmed that concentric peak velocity, as well as CMJ eccentric parameters, is an important NMP determinant of horizontal deceleration ability.		[Agca, Talip] Akdeniz Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, Antalya, Turkiye; [Akdag, Eren; Ozdogan, Emel Cetin] Akdeniz Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Antalya, Turkiye; [Ozdogan, Emel Cetin] Akdeniz Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Antalya, Turkiye								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001353190600001	19	Article; Article		
J	Szymkowiak, Andrzej; Garczarek-Bak, Urszula; Fratczak, Agnieszka; Metelski, Adam								From the player to the sponsor: exploring the interplay of attitudes in MMA sports sponsorship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	1			141	161		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2023-0225			FEB 19 2025	2025	Purpose - This study aims to investigate the complex dynamics of sports sponsorship within the context of mixed martial arts (MMA). Specifically, it explores how audience attitudes toward MMA influence their perceptions of players and sponsors, and subsequently, how these attitudes affect brand perceptions and purchase intentions. Furthermore, this research examines the moderating effect of fans' attitudes toward MMA on the relationship between their attitudes toward sponsors and their purchase intentions. MMA was selected as the focus of this study due to its propensity to evoke more intense emotional responses than other sports, as evidenced by previous research. Design/methodology/approach - Study 1 was conducted to systematically assess the emotional responses elicited by MMA. This preliminary study involved 277 participants. Building on the findings from Study 1, Study 2 employed an online survey to investigate the relationships among various constructs related to MMA. This survey was facilitated through an external portal and included a sample of 459 participants residing in the United States. The constructs measured in this survey were attitudes toward the player (ATP), attitudes toward the sponsor (ATS), perception of brand quality (PBQ), purchase intention (ITP) and attitudes toward mixed martial arts (ATM). Findings - The study reveals that respondents rated MMA the most negatively among the analyzed sports, with the highest standard deviation, indicating that MMA evokes extreme emotional responses. The findings confirm that attitudes toward the player positively influence attitudes toward the sponsor, aligning with sponsorship- linked marketing theory. Moreover, positive attitudes toward the player were found to enhance perceptions of the sponsor's brand quality. The research further demonstrated that attitudes toward the sponsor and perceptions of brand quality mediate the relationship between attitudes toward the player and purchase intentions, underscoring the complex nature of consumer decision-making in MMA sponsorship. Originality/value - This research provides novel insights into the critical role of audience engagement and personal connection with sports in formulating effective sponsorship strategies. It emphasizes the need for marketers to tailor their approaches to align with the sport's personal significance to the audience, employing narratives that resonate with their identities and values. Enhancing player-sponsor associations through co-branded campaigns and endorsements is essential. Furthermore, consistently maintaining high product quality and fostering emotional connections with the sport are key strategies to drive increased purchase intentions.		[Szymkowiak, Andrzej; Garczarek-Bak, Urszula] Poznan Univ Econ & Business, Dept Commerce & Mkt, Poznan, Poland; [Fratczak, Agnieszka] Poznan Univ Econ & Business, Management, Poznan, Poland; [Metelski, Adam] Poznan Univ Econ, Dept Educ & Human Resource Dev, Poznan, Poland; [Garczarek-Bak, Urszula] Poznan Univ Econ & Business, Dept Commerce & Mkt, Poznan, Poland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001351237000001	82	Article; Article		
J	Bhardwaj, Dhanur; Dwyer, Dan B.; Feros, Simon A.								Technical pace bowling coaching of adolescent cricketers: A survey on practices and barriers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			504	516		10.1177/17479541241292411			APR 2025	2025	In cricket pace bowling, research has determined kinematic correlates to ball release speed and lumbar bone stress injury. Coaches have an important role in guiding the development of the bowling action of adolescent pace bowlers; however, it is not clear whether their knowledge and practices align with improving ball release speed and reducing lower back injury risk. This study had three aims: 1) to describe the technical coaching practices of adolescent pace bowlers, 2) to identify the barriers that coaches face in the implementation of such practices, and 3) to determine the relationship between coaches' demographic characteristics and the frequency of technical coaching. This study used a cross-sectional survey study design combined with a purposive sampling approach. Participants were cricket coaches (n = 130) in Australia aged over 18 years, who coached adolescent cricket teams (10-19 years old). Only 11.3% of coaches "occasionally" engaged in technical bowling coaching in the off-season, which increased to 37.1% during the in-season. When technical bowling coaching was undertaken, it was most common for it to last "15-30 min/session" (34.5% of coaches in the off-season and 38.2% in the in-season). The most common barrier to technical bowling coaching during the off-season was limited access to players, while barriers during the in-season were minimal and varied. Younger coaches and older players were associated with more frequent technical coaching in the off-season. Future coaching educational programmes could help coaches to work around the player-access barrier by encouraging them to prescribe training drills in the off-season.		[Bhardwaj, Dhanur; Dwyer, Dan B.; Feros, Simon A.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne, Australia; [Feros, Simon A.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res CSR, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Locked Bag 20000, Melbourne, Vic 3125, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001359621700001	59	Article; Article		
J	McCuire, Tess G.; Picard, Caitlyn T.; Ward, Rose Marie; Smith, Dean L.; Kwon, Young-Hoo; Walsh, Mark S.								The effects of target distance on kinematic sequence of the short game in male collegiate golfers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3290	3300		10.1080/14763141.2024.2423282			DEC 1 2024	2024	Golf is an international sport that has become increasingly more popular in recent times. Previous literature has shown that golf approach shots are crucial to the success of elite golfers. However, there is no known publication investigating distances less than 100 yards, known as the short game. The primary purpose of this study was to collect comprehensive data on 3D biomechanical variables of the short game at four target distances in college-aged, male golfers. Participants were instructed to hit five successful shots at each target distance: 30 yards, 50 yards, 70 yards and full swing (maximal distance) yardage. A motion capture system recorded kinematic and temporal parameters of golfer movement, additional to a golf simulator that collected ball carry distance of each shot. Distance did have a significant (p <= 0.05) effect on swing phase timing, angular velocities and motion sequencing. Movement sequencing within the short game displayed irregular patterns across all distances and phases, with a partial proximal-to-distal pattern (pelvis -> shoulder girdle -> arms -> club) at best. The findings of this study show that the short game swing did present its own unique motion patterns that will require practice as its own skill.		[McCuire, Tess G.; Picard, Caitlyn T.; Smith, Dean L.; Walsh, Mark S.] Miami Univ, Dept Kinesiol Nutr & Hlth, Oxford, OH 45056 USA; [Ward, Rose Marie] Univ Cincinnati, Psychol Dept, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womens Univ, Coll Hlth Sci, Sch Hlth Promot & Kinesiol, Biomech Lab, Denton, TX USA; [Walsh, Mark S.] Miami Univ, Dept Kinesiol Nutr & Hlth, Oxford, OH 45056 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001350612500001	12	Article; Article		
J	Dominguez, Matias; Rico, Juan Pablo; Tedesco, Franco; Tondelli, Eduardo								Injury incidence, prevalence, and burden in an Argentinian male youth soccer academy: one-season descriptive study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	2			138	146		10.1080/00913847.2024.2425265			MAR 4 2025	2025	ObjectiveTo prospectively describe the incidence, severity, and burden of injuries in the youth divisions of an Argentinian professional soccer club during a competitive season.MethodsTwo hundred and twelve male soccer academy players were grouped by age categories and maturity offset as pre-peak height velocity (PHV), circa-PHV and post-PHV. Injury characteristics were recorded as the International Olympic Committee suggests.ResultsA total of 235 time-loss injuries were sustained by 101 different players. The overall injury incidence rate was of 5.8 injuries per 1000 hours (h), with a training and match injury incidence rate of 4.9 and 9.7 injuries per 1000 h, respectively. The prevalence over the season was 47%. Most of the injuries (202) affected the lower limbs (86.6%) and most of them were classified as muscle/tendon injuries (n = 117, 49.8%). Hamstring structural injury was the diagnosis with the highest burden in both circa and post-PHV groups.ConclusionsThe incidence, prevalence, and injury burden reported in this study would add valuable information to Argentinians' youth soccer institutions. Post-PHV players had higher incidence, severity, and burden compared to circa-PHV. Structural/functional injuries to the muscle/tendon represented the highest burden for type of injuries (41.1 per 1000 h), suggesting a need for implementing preventive measures.		[Dominguez, Matias; Rico, Juan Pablo] Acad Dept, Club Atlet Banfield, 6001 Blvd Dupuy, RA-1804 Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Tedesco, Franco; Tondelli, Eduardo] Univ Buenos Aires, Fac Med Sci, Biomech & Funct Anat Lab, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Tondelli, Eduardo] Pontif Catholic Univ Argentina, Fac Med Sci, Discipline Sport Physiotherapy, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Dominguez, Matias] Acad Dept, Club Atlet Banfield, 6001 Blvd Dupuy, RA-1804 Buenos Aires, Argentina								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001349275800001	46	Article; Article		
J	Zhong, Yuming; Lakicevic, Nemanja; Drid, Patrik; Gee, Thomas I.; Tang, Weiwei; Sui, Yuan; Wen, Chunyuan; Zheng, Hang; Yin, Mingyue; Chen, Chao; Zhao, Zhichen; Xu, Kai; Kirk, Christopher; Reale, Reid; Langan-Evans, Carl; Artioli, Guilherme Giannini; Weldon, Anthony; Li, Yongming								Prevalence and patterns of pre-competition weight loss practices in Chinese Amateur boxers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			281	290		10.1177/17479541241295314			FEB 1 2025	2025	This study investigated the weight loss (WL) practices of Chinese amateur boxers using the Rapid Weight Loss Questionnaire (RWLQ). A total of 701 (563 males, 138 females) boxers participated in the study and were categorized by sex, age group, and competitive level. Sixty-seven percent of boxers purposefully engaged in WL practices before competition. The average habitual WL was 6.0% (5.8% for juniors and 6.3% for seniors) of body mass (BM), with the average highest WL was 9.5% (9.1% for juniors and 10.1% for seniors) of BM. Most participants (69% for juniors and 84% for seniors) allocated 15+ days for WL before competition. No significant differences in habitual WL%, highest WL%, and rapid weight loss score (RWLS) were found between age groups or competitive levels (all p>0.05). However, males' highest WL% and RWLS were significantly higher than females (p<0.001, p=0.002, respectively). International boxers began WL later than local boxers (15.5 vs. 14.3 years, p=0.012). National boxers began WL later than provincial and local boxers (15.6 vs. 14.8 years, p<0.001; 15.6 vs. 14.3 years, p<0.001). Increased exercise and training in plastic suits were the most frequently used WL methods. Coaches were identified as the most influential person concerning boxer's WL practices, surpassing doctors or nutritionists. This study found that some WL practices among Chinese boxers differ from those in other sports and countries. Although the prevalence of WL among junior boxers was relatively low, the magnitude of WL was high, warranting more attention in both academic and practical fields.		[Zhong, Yuming; Tang, Weiwei; Sui, Yuan; Zheng, Hang; Yin, Mingyue; Chen, Chao; Xu, Kai; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Lakicevic, Nemanja] Lomonosov Moscow State Univ, Fac Psychol, Moscow, Russia; [Lakicevic, Nemanja] Fed Sci Ctr Psychol & Interdisciplinary Res, Moscow, Russia; [Drid, Patrik] Univ Novi Sad, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Gee, Thomas I.] Univ Lincoln, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Lincoln, England; [Tang, Weiwei] Shanghai Elite Sport Training Adm Ctr, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wen, Chunyuan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Zhichen] Guizhou Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Guiyang, Peoples R China; [Kirk, Christopher] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Human Performance Res Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Reale, Reid] UFC Performance Inst, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Langan-Evans, Carl] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Artioli, Guilherme Giannini] Univ Sao Paulo, Appl Physiol & Nutr Res Grp, Fac Med FMUSP, Ctr Lifestyle Med, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Aston Villa Fdn, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001351064400001	71	Article; Article		
J	Madrigal, Robert; King, Jesse								Beyond a simple yes or no: using signal detection theory to measure sponsorship identification accuracy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	1			108	123		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2024-0149			FEB 19 2025	2025	Purpose - Sponsorship identification accuracy is typically assessed as the percentage of consumers answering "yes" when asked if a brand is a sponsor (hits). However, this fails to consider misattribution (answering "yes" for a non-sponsor brand; false alarms). Misattribution reflects consumer confusion and dilutes the benefits of an official sponsorship, offers an advantage to a non-sponsoring rival and reduces a brand's return on sponsorship investment. Informed by signal-detection theory (SDT), we show how hits may be disentangled from false alarms using a measure of sensitivity called d-prime (d'). A related measure of response bias (c) is also discussed. Design/methodology/approach - In Study 1, we report the results of an experiment. In Study 2, we rely on field study involving actual sponsors and fans. Findings - The use of d' and c is superior to tallying "yes" responses because they account for accurate sponsor attribution and misattribution to non-sponsor competitors. Originality/value - In the context of sponsorship, we demonstrate how d' and c can be easily calculated using Excel. Our research also includes an experimental study that establishes the hypothesized effects and then replicate results in a field setting.		[Madrigal, Robert] Calif State Univ Chico, Chico, CA 95929 USA; [King, Jesse] Univ Montana, Missoula, MT USA; [Madrigal, Robert] Calif State Univ Chico, Chico, CA 95929 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001349650200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Ryu, Min-Ah; Kim, Han Soo; Chiu, Weisheng; Lee, Seomgyun								Impact of sports brands' activities: Are consumers willing to pay a price premium?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	1			162	180		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2024-0114			FEB 19 2025	2025	Purpose - The environmental, social and governance (ESG) movement has become a global phenomenon, penetrating even the sports branding industry. Accordingly, this study investigated whether ESG activities can lead to positive attitudes among customers and thereby affect their behavioral intentions. Design/methodology/approach - We collected data by administering questionnaires to 154 consumers, after which we conducted partial least squares structural equation modeling to test the hypothesized relationships.<br /> Findings - The results indicated that ESG activities favorably influenced brand image and brand loyalty. Brand loyalty was positively associated with the willingness to pay (WTP) for a price premium. The indirect effect of brand loyalty was confirmed in the association between ESG activities and WTP a price premium. ESG activities indirectly affected WTP a price premium via serial mediation through brand image and brand loyalty.<br /> Originality/value - This research extends our understanding of the mechanism behind consumers' decision- making processes on the basis of ESG activities and their impact on WTP a price premium.		[Ryu, Min-Ah; Lee, Seomgyun] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Jeonju, South Korea; [Kim, Han Soo] Univ North Florida, Sch Counseling & Sport Management, Dept Leadership, Jacksonville, FL USA; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Lee, Seomgyun] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Jeonju, South Korea								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001348030100001	81	Article; Article		
J	Mitchell, Andrew; Schofield, Andy								The application of a return-to-performance pathway for a professional footballer recovering from a surgical repair of an isolated lateral collateral knee ligament rupture. A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				116	126		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.09.003			NOV 2024	2024	Objectives: Isolated rupture of the lateral collateral ligament (LCL) of the knee is extremely rare in professional football, and there is a paucity of literature describing the rehabilitation for this injury. This case report demonstrates the use of a return-to-performance (RTPerf) pathway that is time-independent, has clear criteria, and progressive phases to help inform decisions made by a multidisciplinary team (MDT). Methods: A 25-year-old professional footballer sustained an isolated LCL rupture following a tackle by an opposing player, forcing his knee into excessive varus motion. Five days after the injury, the player underwent surgical repair of the LCL before commencing an RTPerf pathway. Results: The player returned to team training 12 weeks after surgery before successfully returning to play (RTPlay) at 13.5 weeks. The player completed full RTPerf at 16 weeks and continued to play with no evidence of instability or pain. Conclusion: This case report outlines how an RTPerf pathway can be successfully used to guide the management of isolated LCL ruptures of the knee.		[Mitchell, Andrew] RasenBallsport Leipzig GmbH, Cottaweg 3, D-04177 Leipzig, Germany; [Schofield, Andy] Liverpool Hope Univ, Physiotherapy, Hope Pk, Liverpool L16 9JD, Merseyside, England; [Mitchell, Andrew] RasenBallsport Leipzig GmbH, Cottaweg 3, D-04177 Leipzig, Germany								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001351173800001	60	Article; Article		
J	Vagenas, George								Uncertainty analysis for stride-time-derived modelling of lower limb stiffness: applying Taylor series expansion for error propagation on Monte-Carlo simulated data								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2312	2329		10.1080/14763141.2021.2022185			NOV 1 2024	2024	Knowledge of uncertainty is valuable mainly in correctly appraising measured effects. In lower limb stiffness, which affects injury risk and athletic performance, uncertainty is often related to vertical (K-vert) and leg (K-leg) stiffness. Imprecisions in measurements of body mass (M), leg length (L), contact (t(c)) and flight (t(f)) time propagate through the calculations, augment stiffness uncertainty and inflate relevant effects. This study estimated the limits of this uncertainty as probable (E-prob) and upper bound (E-upper) errors by applying Taylor series expansion on Monte-Carlo simulated data. E-prob and E-upper were 1285 +/- 221 N/m (3.9 +/- 0.2%) and 1441 +/- 248 N/m (4.4 +/- 0.3%) in K-vert, and 222 +/- 61 N/m (2.1 +/- 0.1%) and 375 +/- 109 N/m (3.6 +/- 0.3%) in K-leg, respectively. To avoid the complexities of full Taylor series expansion, E-prob was predicted (R-2 approximate to 1) more simply as 0.89E(upper) in K-vert and 11 + 0.56E(upper) in K-leg. These uncertainties reflect mostly errors in t(c) and t(f), and uncertainty in F-max, at kinematic sampling of 300 Hz and running at 4-5 m/s. With slower sampling or faster running these uncertainties rise, and their impact on similar lower limb stiffness effects could be substantial. Applying Taylor series expansion for error propagation on Monte-Carlo simulated data is valid for uncertainty analysis in any multivariable functional relationship.		[Vagenas, George] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Vagenas, George] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001592279700033	51	Article; Article		
J	Rezende, Vitor Hugo Santos; Praca, Gibson Moreira								Adopting dual-tasks in small-sided games training in youth soccer: The influence of experience level on tactical performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			139	151		10.1177/17479541241291372			FEB 1 2025	2025	This study assessed the influence of experience level on the cost of tactical performance due to a secondary task in soccer players during Small-Sided Games (SSG). The study involved 36 less experienced soccer athletes (under-13 category) and 36 more experienced athletes (under-17 category), totaling 72 male players from two soccer teams. Participants performed, in a randomized and balanced order, four experimental conditions composed of the following protocols: (1) Single-Task (ST) the 3 vs. 3 SSG, (2) Motor Dual-Task (MDT): SSG while balancing a basketball with a small cone, (3) Cognitive Dual-Task 1 (CDT1): SSG while performing mathematical operations, (4) Cognitive Dual-Task 2 (CDT2): SSG while counting opponent's passes. The SSGs were filmed for players' tactical assessment using the Football Tactical Assessment System. The task cost was analyzed using two-way mixed ANOVA and Bonferroni post-hoc tests. The comparison between categories indicated that the under-17 category showed a lower cost in the tactical principles of penetration (p=0.007) and concentration (p=0.025). In comparison, the under-13 category showed a lower cost in the tactical principles of width and length without the ball (p=0.007), delay (p=0.001), and defensive balance (p=0.025). In comparing protocols, MDT showed a higher cost in the tactical principle of width and length without the ball (p=0.002). There was no significant difference between CDT1 and CDT2 protocols (p>0.05). The results suggest that experience level reduces the cost of the secondary task involving actions in progression with the ball, and the MDT, CDT1, and CDT2 protocols appear to generate similar costs to performance.		[Rezende, Vitor Hugo Santos; Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Ave Pres Antonio Carlos,6627 Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Ave Pres Antonio Carlos,6627 Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001346800400001	52	Article; Article		
J	Daly, Ed; Ryan, Lisa								A qualitative analysis of existing concussion return to play protocols and psychological recovery management in Gaelic games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			225	235		10.1177/17479541241289983			FEB 1 2025	2025	Background Sports related concussions are a common injury in field-based contact sports including Gaelic games. Even though accurate data on concussion in Gaelic games is currently limited, it is well documented that concussion is a common injury in Gaelic sports. The purpose of this current research was to discern the psychological impact of concussion on Gaelic games athletes as in many instances, recovery from concussion focuses mainly on physical recovery. Methods A grounded theory methodology was used to explore the experiences of a cohort of adult male and female amateur and elite amateur Gaelic games athletes (n=22) and their experiences involving psychological recovery post-concussion and eventual return to play. The data for this study were gathered through a series of individual semi-structured interviews. Results Two major themes were identified, (1) lack of psychological recovery management for concussion in Gaelic games athletes and, (2) non-standardised concussion protocols and concussion education within Gaelic games. These themes were further divided into categories and subcategories. Conclusion Recovery from concussion in Gaelic games is broadly a non-standardised process, whereby recovery processes are haphazard and lack enforcement. There are no directives or guidance for recognising the need for psychological recovery, or assistance to recover from concussion in the acute or chronic phases or for those with long term post-concussion syndrome.		[Daly, Ed; Ryan, Lisa] Atlantic Technol Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Nutr, Galway H91 T8NW, Ireland; [Ryan, Lisa] Atlantic Technol Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Nutr, Galway H91 T8NW, Ireland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001346834000001	51	Article; Article		
J	Powell, Danny; Wood, G.; Dagnall, N.; Payton, C.								Enhancing skill acquisition knowledge and practice design in elite level swimming: Effects of a six-week online coach education intervention								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			429	442		10.1177/17479541241291541			APR 2025	2025	In response to calls for examples from sports settings that highlight successful collaborations between skill acquisition specialists and coaches, this study evaluated the effectiveness of a skill acquisition coach education intervention. After an analysis of practice by a skill acquisition specialist, which provided context to impact learning design, two senior coaches from British Para Swimming with no prior knowledge of skill acquisition principles were observed and interviewed. The intervention harnessed coach experiential knowledge by emphasising development in understanding of theory underpinning three key principles of skill acquisition (i) implicit learning, (ii), focus of attention, and (iii) contextual interference, and encouraging informal and experiential learning between sessions. Following the intervention, coaches had adapted their approach to practice design to incorporate theory-informed techniques. Coach observations and interviews highlighted a range of novel findings in skill acquisition. First, outcomes indicated the use of implicit learning techniques in the form of analogy or metaphor cues can facilitate learning for athletes with intellectual disabilities. Second, coaches reported the learning benefits of utilising external and holistic focus cues in the elite athlete setting. Finally, through an increased understanding of the learning-performance distinction, coaches described the benefits of incorporating contextual interference, which emphasised temporal spacing between learning events. The coaches' interpretation and implementation of skill acquisition theory are discussed with reference to potential avenues of exploration in future research.		[Powell, Danny; Wood, G.; Payton, C.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Dagnall, N.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Psychol, Manchester, England; [Powell, Danny] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Res Ctr Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001347152500001	67	Article; Article		
J	Fitzgerald, F.; Campbell, M.; Kearney, P. E.; Cumming, S. P.								The eyes don't have it: Coaches' eye is not a valid method of estimating biological maturation in male Gaelic football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			35	44		10.1177/17479541241290585			FEB 1 2025	2025	In youth sport, coaches often rely on subjective assessments of current ability and future potential, which may favor players advanced in biological maturation. This study evaluated the accuracy of coaches' maturity assessments and their impact on perceptions of player ability and potential, as well the inter-coach agreement on talent and maturity evaluations. Maturity timing (discrepancy between biological and chronological age) was assessed using the Khamis-Roche method for 247 male players aged 13 to 17 years. Eighteen coaches provided estimations of their players' maturity timing, ratings of current ability and long-term potential, and selections of top and bottom 5 players. Inter-rater reliability was calculated using weighted Kappa (k) and percentage agreement. Kendall correlation analyses (tau) examined relationships between maturity and coaches' perceptions, while a Kruskal Wallis test examined differences in maturity between players classified by coaches as top, middle and bottom performers. On average, coaches underestimated the presence of early maturers and overestimated on-time and late maturers. Maturation timing showed weak correlations with current ability (tau=0.075) and future potential (tau=0.021). Coaches' selected "top" players did not differ in maturity from their peers (H2=4.844, p=0.89). Agreement between coaches ranged from none to weak. These findings suggest coaches' eye may be inaccurate for estimating maturation. Additionally, there is poor inter-coach agreement in identifying talented athletes, indicating the "coach's eye" is subjective and variable. These results may have significant implications for future talent identification research and processes in sport organizations.		[Fitzgerald, F.] Munster Technol Univ Kerry, Dept Hlth & Leisure, Kerry, Ireland; [Fitzgerald, F.; Campbell, M.; Kearney, P. E.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Sport Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Fitzgerald, F.] Kerry GAA, Performance & Res Dept, Kerry, Ireland; [Cumming, S. P.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Fitzgerald, F.] Munster Technol Univ Kerry, Dept Hlth & Leisure, Dromtacker Tralee Co, Kerry, Ireland								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001345194300001	55	Article; Article		
J	Hwang, Hui; Humphreys, Brad R.; Pyun, Hyunwoong								Game Day Traffic and Sports: Evidence From Yankee Stadium in the Bronx								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	3			219	239		10.1177/15270025241289400			APR 2025	2025	This article investigates the impact of sports games on taxi trip times near a stadium in the Bronx. The traffic outcome variable comes from data on individual taxi trips in New York City. These trip-level data contain information on pick-up and drop-off times and locations, and trip distance. We analyze over 280,000 taxi trips on weekday evenings between March and September 2019. Under the assumption that taxi trips represent traffic conditions in the city, the results indicate that travel time increases on a game day. Travelers experience 1.3% longer travel times on game days. Game-related traffic increases travel time by 6.3% for the trips that pass through the stadium area, and by 17% for trips before the game starts. Local economic value of lost time from games amounts to about $2 million per year. Governments should consider these negative externalities when providing subsidies for new sports facility construction.		[Hwang, Hui; Pyun, Hyunwoong] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Dept Sport Interact Sci, 2066 Seobu Ro, Suwon 16419, South Korea; [Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Pyun, Hyunwoong] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Dept Sport Interact Sci, 2066 Seobu Ro, Suwon 16419, South Korea								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001339737500001	17	Article; Article		
J	Spilker, Finn								Higher, Faster, Further: Performance Heterogeneity and Social Facilitation in Professional Track and Field								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	3			268	289		10.1177/15270025241289403			APR 2025	2025	To explore the effects of COVID-19-related spectator variations on elite track and field athletes, the current article measures individual outcomes according to World Athletics Scores and then leverages these measures in fixed effects regression models to gauge athletes' performance. Using a dataset of 5284 observations over 6 years and controlling for athlete, venue, and discipline fixed effects, as well as competition characteristics, we address task complexity and task experience. Thereby, we establish that field (in more complex tasks) but not track athletes (in simpler tasks) benefit from spectator exclusion. Furthermore, younger rather than older (more experienced) track athletes benefit from the lack of spectators, implying that experienced athletes handle social pressure better.		[Spilker, Finn] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Univ Str 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany; [Spilker, Finn] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Univ Str 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001339723900001	57	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Zijian; Yamaguchi, Ryusei; Fu, Siyang; Zhao, Hanye; Li, Yanshu; Kobayashi, Yusuke; Gong, Yining; Kumai, Tsukasa								Epidemiology of ankle sprain and chronic ankle instability in elite adolescent dancesport athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	2			119	128		10.1080/00913847.2024.2418283			MAR 4 2025	2025	BackgroundDancesport is performed in high-heeled shoes. Dancesport athletes may have a higher prevalence and incidence of ankle sprains, which can affect their performance. However, the occurrence of ankle sprains among dancesport athletes remains unclear. This study aimed to determine the prevalence and incidence of ankle sprains among elite dancesport athletes and to investigate the related information.MethodWe conducted a mixed descriptive epidemiological study (cross-sectional and longitudinal) involving 198 elite adolescent dancesport athletes, using past medical records and questionnaires administered to the participants. Data on the occurrence of ankle sprains among all participants were compiled using medical records and information on injury mechanisms, missed days, severity types, and countermeasures for ankle sprains were collected. The prevalence of chronic ankle instability (CAI) among the participants was assessed using a questionnaire. Following the initial survey, we conducted a one-year follow-up study to investigate the incidence of ankle sprains, incidence rate per 1000 exposure hours, and recurrence of ankle sprains.ResultThe cross-sectional study and longitudinal study included 198 participants and 92 elite dancesport athletes, respectively. The prevalence of ankle sprains and CAI was 49.5% and 45.1%, respectively. Of all ankle sprains, 88% were medial injuries. The most common injury mechanisms were turning (46.9%) and jumping (46.9%). The average number of missed days due to ankle sprains was 11.2 days. Most injuries were managed with rest, and only one male athlete underwent surgery due to an ankle sprain sustained during dancing. During the one-year follow-up, the incidence of ankle sprains, incidence rate per 1000 exposure hours, and recurrence rate of ankle sprains were 46.6% (male, 41.2%; female, 48.8%), 0.65 ankle sprains/1000 h, and 35.3%, respectively. No sex-related differences were observed.ConclusionIt is crucial to focus on the occurrence of ankle sprains and CAI in dancesport athletes with high heels. Future research should clarify the impact of ankle sprains on dancesport performance and develop preventive measures to reduce the incidence and recurrence of these associated injuries.		[Liu, Zijian; Yamaguchi, Ryusei; Fu, Siyang; Kobayashi, Yusuke] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan; [Zhao, Hanye; Kumai, Tsukasa] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Li, Yanshu] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Human Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Gong, Yining] Osaka Univ Econ & Law, Grad Sch Econ, 2-10-45 Yao, Osaka 5810853, Japan; [Liu, Zijian] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan; [Gong, Yining] Osaka Univ Econ & Law, Grad Sch Econ, 2-10-45 Yao, Osaka 5810853, Japan								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001337368800001	78	Article; Article		
J	Faria, Larissa Oliveira; Fortes, Leonardo de Sousa; Albuquerque, Maicon Rodrigues								The Influence of Mental Fatigue on Physical Performance and Its Relationship with Rating Perceived Effort and Enjoyment in Older Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			356	370		10.1080/02701367.2024.2409932			APR 3 2025	2025	The study investigated the influence of mental fatigue on older people's enjoyment during a series of physical exercises. Using a randomized cross-over design, participants (n = 35) completed a 6-minute walking test - 6MWT, a Timed Up and Go-TUG test and three sets of knee extension exercise (first set: KE1, second set: KE2, third set: KE3) under two experimental conditions (control or mental fatigue). The Nonparametric Analysis of Longitudinal Data in Factorial Experiments was used to compare the number of repetitions performed during three sets of resistance exercise between conditions. The same analysis method was applied to compare the perception of effort and enjoyment across five moments (Post-6MWT, Post-TUG, Post-KE1, Post-KE2, Post-KE3) and two conditions and the Visual Analogue Scales (VAS) across four moments (baseline, Pre-6MWT, Pre-TUG, Pre-KE) and two conditions. Mental fatigue did not affect the physical function, perception of effort and enjoyment of exercise in older people. Participants, however, reported higher enjoyment for walking and dynamic balance compared to strength exercise. Mental fatigue had no effect on the physical function, perception of effort and enjoyment of exercise of older people. Participants presented a higher enjoyment for walking and dynamic balance compared to strength exercise. Given the importance of resistance exercises for health, clinicians should prioritize resources to education programs emphasizing the benefits of resistance exercise in both short- and long-term health. Including social interaction opportunities in physical exercise programs and prescribing activities appropriate to participants' ability levels could enhance engagement and adherence.		[Faria, Larissa Oliveira; Albuquerque, Maicon Rodrigues] Univ Fed Minas Gerais UFMG, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Faria, Larissa Oliveira] Univ Technol Sydney UTS, Sydney, Australia; [Fortes, Leonardo de Sousa] Univ Fed Paraiba UFPB, Joao Pessoa, Brazil; [Faria, Larissa Oliveira] Univ Technol Sydney UTS, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, 18 Woodford Crescent,Heathcote, Sydney, NSW 2233, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001338254000001	102	Article; Article		
J	Lefever, Elisa; Flamant, Nele; Morbee, Sofie; Soenens, Bart; Vansteenkiste, Maarten; Ntoumanis, Nikos; Bartholomew, Kimberley; De Cocker, Katrien; Haerens, Leen								Does a closer coach-athlete bond buffer or exacerbate the detrimental effects of controlling coaching on athletes' coping and outcomes?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			56	69		10.1177/17479541241287433			FEB 1 2025	2025	Some coaches are convinced that controlling practices will not harm their athletes if they simultaneously are warm and caring. This study, grounded in Self-Determination Theory and Skinner's coping framework, explored these convictions among 179 volleyball players (67.6% female; age=21.12 +/- 4.66 years). Participants assessed perceived controlling and relatedness-supportive coaching styles, their coping strategies, self-reported performance, engagement, competitive anxiety, and burnout. Results showed that controlling coaching related to reduced performance, and more competitive anxiety and burnout. Controlling coaching associated indirectly with these athletes' outcomes through compulsive compliance. Finally, when coaches were perceived to display moderate or high levels of relatedness-support, controlling coaching related to worse performance, and more competitive anxiety. These results suggest that a closer coach-athlete bond may exacerbate the detrimental impact of controlling coaching, as athletes feel internally pressured to obey the coach's demands without internally accepting these commands.		[Lefever, Elisa; De Cocker, Katrien; Haerens, Leen] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Flamant, Nele; Morbee, Sofie; Soenens, Bart; Vansteenkiste, Maarten] Univ Ghent, Dept Dev Personal & Social Psychol, Ghent, Belgium; [Ntoumanis, Nikos] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sport Sci & Clin Biomechan, Odense, Denmark; [Ntoumanis, Nikos] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo, Norway; [Bartholomew, Kimberley] Univ East Anglia, Sch Educ & Lifelong Learning, Norwich, Norfolk, England; [Lefever, Elisa] Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Watersportlaan 2, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001335148200001	58	Article; Article		
J	Konopka, Magdalena Johanna; Leerschool, Anna Roos; Gopalakrishna, Gowri; Wesselius, Anke; Rietjens, Gerard; Zeegers, Maurice P.								Athletes' perceptions towards genetic testing - an explorative qualitative study among endurance athletes and their coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	2			478	490		10.1177/17479541241289774			APR 2025	2025	There is growing interest among professional athletes and their support staff in utilising genetic testing to enhance sports performance. However, the perceptions of athletes and coaches regarding genetic testing for training purposes remain largely unexplored. To address this gap, the present interview study investigated the perceptions of athletes and coaches towards genetic testing. Sixteen professional cyclists and triathletes (and their five coaches) participated in semi-structured online interviews after having received their genetic test results. The in-depth interviews were video-recorded, transcribed, translated, and analysed using reflexive thematic analysis by two independent researchers in MAXQDA. Positive perceptions were mainly linked to the potential added value of genetic testing for sports, the importance of counselling, and the necessity for further research. Negative perceptions were mainly linked to incorrect interpretations and conclusions, the use of genetic tests for talent selection, the reliability and usability of results, confirmation bias, fear of stigma, privacy concerns, and costs. Overall, there is a positive perception towards genetic testing among athletes and coaches, emphasising its potential to personalise training programmes. Although some participants highlighted the risks and limitations associated with genetic testing, these concerns were less common. It is suggested that counselling should accompany genetic testing to help athletes and coaches comprehend both the limitations and potential benefits of genetic testing.		[Konopka, Magdalena Johanna; Leerschool, Anna Roos; Gopalakrishna, Gowri; Zeegers, Maurice P.] Maastricht Univ, CAPHRI Sch Publ Hlth & Primary Care, Maastricht, Netherlands; [Konopka, Magdalena Johanna] Univ Bayreuth, Inst Healthcare Management & Hlth Sci, Bayreuth, Germany; [Gopalakrishna, Gowri] Amsterdam Univ Med Ctr, Dept Epidemiol & Data Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Wesselius, Anke; Zeegers, Maurice P.] Maastricht Univ, NUTRIM Sch Nutr & Translat Res Metab, Maastricht, Netherlands; [Rietjens, Gerard] Vrije Univ Brussel, Human Physiol & Sports Physiotherapy Res Grp, Brussels, Belgium; [Leerschool, Anna Roos] Maastricht Univ, CAPHRI Sch Publ Hlth & Primary Care, Maastricht, Netherlands								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001335720500001	44	Article; Article		
J	Hardwicke, Jack; Malcolm, Dominic; Glendon, Kerry								Experiences of a controlled early exercise intervention following a sport-related concussion: A qualitative study of rugby union student-athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				95	100		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.10.001			NOV 2024	2024	Background: Early aerobic exercise is associated with improved outcomes following recovery from sport-related concussion (SRC) and is now recommended in guidance for clinicians managing athletes return-to-play. Objectives: To explore student-athlete experiences of a novel early aerobic exercise intervention. Design: Qualitative study using semi-structured interviews. Setting: Loughborough University, UK. Participants: Ten rugby union university aged student-athletes (6 men) that had been medically diagnosed with an SRC sustained playing rugby. Results: Three themes divided into eight supporting subthemes were generated. Main findings were: 1) Experience: despite some apprehension over the novel approach, most had a positive experience, 2) Adherence: Participants suggested reasonably good overall adherence to the prescribed exercises but intrinsic and extrinsic factors for non-adherence were identified, 3) Outcomes: the intervention was perceived to help rehabilitation, improve confidence, support retention of athletic identity and, for some, influenced more cautious attitudes toward brain health. Conclusions: The novel early exercise intervention was reasonably well received and adhered to. Unintended benefits included supporting retainment of athletic identity and encouraging precautious health behaviours. As early exercise protocols are refined, these findings will help inform the design and delivery of future interventions, particularly in relation to intensity and diversity of exercises and supporting education.		[Hardwicke, Jack] Nottingham Trent Univ, Nottingham, England; [Malcolm, Dominic; Glendon, Kerry] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, England; [Glendon, Kerry] Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Epinal Way, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001338794900001	55	Article; Article		
J	Kemler, Bryson R.; Willier, Donald P.; D'Amore, Taylor; Cohen, Steven B.; Dodson, Christopher C.; Ciccotti, Michael G.								Return to play after UCL injury in gymnasts								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	2			112	118		10.1080/00913847.2024.2414462			MAR 4 2025	2025	BackgroundInjuries to the ulnar collateral ligament (UCL) are commonly reported in traditional overhead sports. Conversely, there is a lack of evidence outlining management and return to play (RTP) outcomes for gymnasts. This study aimed to evaluate RTP and patient reported outcomes (PROs) in gymnasts after operative and non-operative treatment of UCL injuries.MethodsGymnasts who presented with UCL injury and underwent operative and non-operative treatment were evaluated. Patient reported outcomes were collected via telephone: Conway-Jobe Scale, Kerlan-Jobe Orthopaedic Clinic Shoulder and Elbow (KJOC) Score, Mayo Elbow Performance (MEP) Score, and quick DASH (qDASH) and Timmerman-Andrews (TA) Elbow Score.ResultsNine patients met inclusion criteria and were available for follow-up. Five were initially treated operatively and four were initially treated non-operatively. The operative group initially consisted of three ulnar collateral ligament reconstructions (UCLR) and two UCL repairs with internal bracing. One patient crossed over to the operative group after failing non-operative treatment and underwent UCLR four months post injury. Overall, 66.7% and 100% of operatively and non-operatively treated gymnasts were able to return to play, respectively. At final follow-up, the operative groups' mean KJOC, MEP, TA, and qDASH scores were: 68.4 +/- 7.7, 97.5 +/- 2.7, 90.8 +/- 10.7, and 1.9 +/- 3.0, respectively. For the non-operative group, the mean scores were 67.4 +/- 9.0, 71.7 +/- 5.8, 71.7 +/- 14.4, and 11.4 +/- 9.9, respectively. Treatment satisfaction for the operative group was 81.7 +/- 27.5 compared to 80.6 +/- 34.5 in the non-operative group. Odds ratios indicated no differences between groups.ConclusionBoth operative and non-operative interventions for UCL injuries in gymnasts can provide favorable outcomes with respect to return to play and subjective patient-reported outcomes. Further research is warranted to determine optimal treatment, especially regarding indications for operative vs. nonoperative treatment, of UCL injury based on injury severity and location in gymnasts.Level of EvidenceCase series; Level III Evidence		[Kemler, Bryson R.; Willier, Donald P.; D'Amore, Taylor; Cohen, Steven B.; Dodson, Christopher C.; Ciccotti, Michael G.] Rothman Orthopaed Inst, 925 Chestnut St Fl 5, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Kemler, Bryson R.] Rothman Orthopaed Inst, 925 Chestnut St Fl 5, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001331820000001	48	Article; Article		
J	Chattanta, Varsha; Verma, Nitesh; Mehra, Pooja								Quantifying the difference between male and female agility in football players: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				90	94		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.10.002			NOV 2024	2024	Objectives: The study aimed to establish a normative reference value for the agility T-test and Illinois test in football players, on the basis of sex and playing position. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Himachal Pradesh Football Association and Maharishi Markandeshwar Medical College and HospitalHimachal Pradesh. Participants: 138 football players including 69 male and 69 female players aged 18-25 years were included. Main outcome measures: Illinois and agility T-test. Results: Normative values of male and female player's are established for agility T-test 10.06 f 0.87; 11.27 f 0.84 and for Illinois test were 15.56 f 0.80; 17.75 f 1.37 s, respectively. Mann Whitney U- test was used to compare the agility of both sexes and showed a significant difference (p-value <0.001) in male and female players. Intra-rater reliability was checked for between trials and revealed excellent reliability with greatest single measure ICC (0.972) and average measure ICC (0.936) for Illinois test and single measure ICC (0.891) and average measure ICC (0.903) for agility T-test. Conclusion: Both agility tests concluded that female players are statistically and clinically less agile than male players. Similar results were found when agility was compared according to playing position. On the basis of sex, midfielders are more agile compared with other playing position.		[Chattanta, Varsha; Verma, Nitesh; Mehra, Pooja] Maharishi Markandeshwar Med Coll & Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy, Solan, Himachal Prades, India; [Mehra, Pooja] Maharishi Markandeshwar Med Coll & Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy, Solan, Himachal Prades, India								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001337983200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Kassiano, Witalo; Costa, Bruna; Kunevaliki, Gabriel; Nunes, Joao Pedro; Castro-e-Souza, Pamela; de Paula Felipe, Jainara; Tricoli, Ian; Luiz, Alan; Tricoli, Valmor; Cyrino, Edilson S.								Muscle Hypertrophy and Strength Adaptations to Systematically Varying Resistance Exercises								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			371	381		10.1080/02701367.2024.2409961			APR 3 2025	2025	We compared the effects of varied and constant resistance exercises on muscular adaptations in young women. Seventy young women (21.8 +/- 3.4 yrs, 62.0 +/- 12.3 kg, 162.3 +/- 5.7 cm) were randomly divided into two groups: constant resistance exercises (CON-RE, n = 38) or varied resistance exercises (VAR-RE, n = 32). The resistance training (RT) was performed thrice a week over 10 weeks. CON-RE performed a 45 degrees leg press and stiff-leg deadlift in every training session, while VAR-RE performed 45 degrees leg press and stiff-leg deadlift in the first training session of the week, hack squat and prone leg curl in the second, and Smith machine squat and seated-leg curl in the third. Both groups performed two sets of 10-15 repetitions maximum per resistance exercise. We measured the muscle thickness of the thigh's anterior, lateral, and posterior aspects by ultrasonography at different muscle sites (proximo-distal). Muscular strength was analyzed from the one-repetition maximum (1RM) tests in the 45 degrees leg press and leg extension (non-trained exercise). The muscle thickness increased similarly in both groups for all muscles and sites (CON-RE: +7.8-17.7% vs. VAR-RE: +7.5-19.3%, p > .05). The 1RM increased similarly in both groups (CON-RE: +24.4-32.1% vs. VAR-RE: +29.0-30.1%, p > .05). Both RT routines resulted in virtually similar muscular strength gains and hypertrophy. Therefore, both strategies should be considered for the improvement of strength and muscle growth.		[Kassiano, Witalo; Costa, Bruna; Kunevaliki, Gabriel; Nunes, Joao Pedro; Castro-e-Souza, Pamela; de Paula Felipe, Jainara; Tricoli, Ian; Luiz, Alan; Cyrino, Edilson S.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Londrina, Brazil; [Nunes, Joao Pedro] Edith Cowan Univ, Joondalup, Australia; [Tricoli, Valmor] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Kassiano, Witalo] Univ Estadual Londrina, Phys Educ & Sport Ctr, Metab Nutr & Exercise Lab, Rodovia Celso Garcia,Km 380, BR-86057970 Londrina, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001336794400001	40	Article; Article		
J	Schlewing, Jannick; Jacobs, Shaundre; Hollander, Kasten; Venter, Ranel								Neuromuscular training in shod or barefoot conditions equally improved performance in female youth field hockey player: A randomized controlled trial								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			236	254		10.1177/17479541241286053			FEB 1 2025	2025	A growing body of literature addresses the public and scientific interest in barefoot locomotion as an alternative to footwear for running and enhancing physical performance. Little is known about the effects of barefoot training in youth team sport athletes. This randomized controlled trial assessed the efficacy of a nine-week neuromuscular warm-up program (20 minutes twice per week) on balance, functional jumping, speed, acceleration, and agility, in female youth field hockey players. Players (16.2 +/- 1.2 years) from three teams from a high school volunteered, consented to participation and were randomly assigned to either a barefoot or shod intervention group. Mixed model ANOVAs were conducted with the full data set of 34 participants as random effects (to account for repeated measurements), and intervention, time, limb side as fixed effects. No statistically significant differences (p>0.05) were found between the two groups on performance outcomes with small (ES >= 0.2) to medium (ES >= 0.4) effect sizes. Both groups significantly improved (p<0.05) their performance pre- to post-intervention in all tests. Performing the warm-up program barefoot or shod appeared to be equally effective to improve physical performance in habitually barefoot youth athletes.		[Schlewing, Jannick; Jacobs, Shaundre; Venter, Ranel] Stellenbosch Univ, Div Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Hollander, Kasten] MSH Med Sch Hamburg, Inst Interdisciplinary Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Hamburg, Germany; [Schlewing, Jannick] Stellenbosch Univ, Div Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Stellenbosch, South Africa								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001331008400001	75	Article; Article		
J	Zorlular, Ali; Zorlular, Rabia; Elbasan, Bulent; Guzel, Nevin Atalay								The Effect of Attention Focus Instructions on Strength and Balance in Subjects With Generalized Joint Hypermobility								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			349	355		10.1080/02701367.2024.2409275			APR 3 2025	2025	This study aims to examine the effects of different attention focuses on muscle strength and balance performance in individuals with Generalized Joint Hypermobility (GJH). This randomized crossover trial included 32 individuals with GJH whose Beighton score was greater than 5. Subjects performed each task under external attentional focus, internal attentional focus, and neutral attentional focus condition. Knee extensor muscle strength was measured using the Isokinetic Dynamometer. Postural stability was evaluated using the Biodex Balance System, while dynamic balance was assessed using the Y Balance Test. The main effects of attentional focus on the outcomes were analyzed using repeated measures ANOVA and post-hoc corrections with a 95% confidence interval. Subjects produced significantly higher quadriceps peak torque during external focus instruction and internal focus instruction compared to neutral condition (p = .006). Postural stability performance were found to be better during external attention focus compared to the internal focus of attention and the neutral group (p = .008). In addition, an increase in Y balance composite score was observed during external condition compared to internal condition and neutral condition (p < .001). Whether internal or external, the use of attentional focus may be beneficial for optimal force production during training in individuals with GJH. External attention focus enabled better postural stability and dynamic balance performances.		[Zorlular, Ali] Cukurova Univ, Adana, Turkiye; [Zorlular, Rabia] Nigde Omer Halisdemir Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Fatih Mah Behind Nursing Home Bor Campus, TR-51700 Nigde, Turkiye; [Elbasan, Bulent; Guzel, Nevin Atalay] Gazi Univ, Gazi, Turkiye; [Zorlular, Rabia] Nigde Omer Halisdemir Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Fatih Mah Behind Nursing Home Bor Campus, TR-51700 Nigde, Turkiye								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001336791000001	41	Article; Article		
J	Moore, Brady P.; Hackl, Caitlin M.; Kneedler, Sterling C.; Weiss, William M.								Return to play and performance after patellar fracture in American professional sports: a case-control cohort analysis								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			86	96		10.1080/00913847.2024.2411942			JAN 2 2025	2025	Objectives This study describes the effects of patellar fracture on return to play (RTP) and functional outcomes among athletes in American professional sports. Methods Professional athletes from the National Football League (NFL), National Basketball Association (NBA), Major League Baseball (MLB), and National Hockey League (NHL) who suffered a patellar fracture between January 1965 and December 2021 were identified through injury reports and public archives. Performance scores, play time, and games played were collected for the season preceding patellar fracture and 2 seasons after RTP, and differences in recorded metrics compared to pre-injury levels and matched controls were analyzed. Results Twenty-nine of 41 (71%) injured athletes returned to play at an average of 217 days. Among all players, play volume decreased in year 1 compared to baseline but recovered to pre-injury levels in year 2. Athletes treated operatively experienced an initial decline in performance (p < 0.01) but recovered to pre-injury performance level in year 2. Nonoperative management resulted in a decline in performance in year 2 of RTP (p = 0.02). Athletes treated operatively performed significantly worse than matched controls in year 1 of RTP (64% vs. 99%; p = 0.04) but recovered to a similar level of performance as controls in year 2 (87% vs. 91%; p = 0.90). Conclusion A 71% rate of RTP was demonstrated among this limited cohort of 29 athletes in American professional sports after isolated patellar fracture. Although details regarding fracture characteristics and operative reports were not available for analysis, operative management was not associated with longer absence from play compared to nonoperative treatment. Despite the limitations of this study, the findings suggesting operative management may improve prospects of maintaining elite performance following RTP warrant further investigation. Level of evidence Case-control cohort analysis; Level of evidence, 3.		[Moore, Brady P.; Hackl, Caitlin M.] Univ Texas Med Branch, John Sealy Sch Med, 301 Univ Blvd, Galveston, TX 77555 USA; [Kneedler, Sterling C.; Weiss, William M.] Univ Texas Med Branch, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, Galveston, TX 77555 USA; [Moore, Brady P.] Univ Texas Med Branch, John Sealy Sch Med, 301 Univ Blvd, Galveston, TX 77555 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001329249400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Da Silva, Lucas Chalegre; Da Silva, Kleber Johny; Felippe, Leandro Camati; Silva-Cavalcante, Marcos David; Henrique, Rafael dos Santos; Lima-Silva, Adriano Eduardo; Leandro, Carol Gois; Ferreira, Guilherme Assuncao								Neural and Muscular Determinants of Performance Fatigability Are Independent of Work and Recovery Durations During High-Intensity Interval Exercise in Males								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			338	348		10.1080/02701367.2024.2407891			APR 3 2025	2025	The present study aimed to investigate the effect of two protocols of high-intensity interval exercise (HIIE) on performance fatigability and its neural and muscular determinants. On different days, 14 healthy males performed two HIIE protocols with different work and recovery durations (matched for total duration, work and recovery intensities, and density): 1) 4 x 4 min at 90% HRpeak,180-s recovery at 70% HRpeak; and 2) 16 x 1 min at 90% HRpeak, 45-s recovery at 70% HRpeak. Pre- to post-HIIE reduction in maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) was used as marker of performance fatigability, while voluntary activation (VA) and potentiated quadriceps twitch force (Q(tw)) as markers of the neural (i.e. central fatigue) and muscular (i.e. peripheral fatigue) determinants, respectively. In addition, pre- to post-HIIE reduction in twitch force stimulated at 100 Hz (Q(tw100)) and 10:100 Hz ratio (Q(tw10):Q(tw100)) were used as markers of high- and low-frequency performance fatigability, respectively. The MVIC, VA, T-w,T- Q(tw100), and Q(tw10):Q(tw100) ratio decreased similarly from pre- to post-HIIE in both HIIE protocols (p < .05). The rating of perceived effort, blood pH, and plasma lactate responses were similar between HIIE protocols (p > .05), but the heart rate was higher in the longer HIIE protocol (p < .05). In conclusion, performance fatigability and its neural and muscular determinants seemed to be independent of the work and recovery durations of the HIIE, at least when HIIE protocols were matched for total work duration, work and recovery intensities, and density. Further, HIIE with long work and recovery might be preferable when the intention is to stress the chronotropic response.		[Da Silva, Lucas Chalegre; Da Silva, Kleber Johny; Silva-Cavalcante, Marcos David; Henrique, Rafael dos Santos; Leandro, Carol Gois; Ferreira, Guilherme Assuncao] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil; [Felippe, Leandro Camati] Estacio Sa Univ FAL, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Felippe, Leandro Camati; Lima-Silva, Adriano Eduardo] Fed Technol Univ Parana, Curitiba, Brazil; [Ferreira, Guilherme Assuncao] Univ Pernambuco, High Sch Phys Educ, BR-50100130 Recife, PE, Brazil; [Ferreira, Guilherme Assuncao] Univ Pernambuco, High Sch Phys Educ, BR-50100130 Recife, PE, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001328884200001	46	Article; Article		
J	Painter, David F.; Ahn, Benjamin J.; Byrne, Rory A.; Dove, James H.; Wallace, Kieran J.; Jain, Rishubh; Owens, Brett D.								Upper extremity orthopedic softball injuries presenting to the emergency department: epidemiology across the lifespan								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			72	79		10.1080/00913847.2024.2411574			JAN 2 2025	2025	Background Softball is a popular lifetime sport due to its inclusion of both fastpitch and slowpitch varieties, although associated injuries are common. Objective To compare softball injury rates across patient sex, age, race, injury location, mechanism, and activity. MethodsThe National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) was queried for all upper extremity softball injuries in patients 10-85+ years old presenting to United States emergency departments between 2012 and 2021. Results Significantly more of the 178,303 total weighted upper extremity injuries occurred in female (68.1%) than male (31.9%) athletes (p < .001). Male patients (mean 34.9 +/- 13.6 years) were older than female patients (17.4 +/- 8.4; p = .019). The average incidence rate of UE injuries from 2012-2021 was 187.9 per 100,000 persons, with a significant decrease in injury incidence across the timespan (p < .001). The lowest annual injury incidence (74.7 per 100,000 persons) occurred in 2020. In patients 10-18 years old, female patients accounted for 95.1% of all injuries, whereas male patients accounted for 72.1% of all injuries in patients aged >= 23. Compared to male patients, females more frequently experienced hand (p < .001), lower arm (p = .007), shoulder (p < .001), and wrist (p < .001) injuries in patients 10-18 years old, finger (p < .001), upper arm (p = .016), and wrist (p < .001) injuries in patients 19-22, and finger injuries (p < .001) in patients aged 23 +. Across all ages, the greatest proportion of injuries were treated and released (p < .001). Most injuries occurred while fielding (41.8%) and due to player-ball contact (36.8%). Conclusion Softball injury ED presentations declined across a decade, including a precipitous drop and rebound effect due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Across the lifespan, upper extremity injuries progressively shifted from female-predominant in younger athletes to male-predominant in adults.		[Painter, David F.; Ahn, Benjamin J.; Byrne, Rory A.; Dove, James H.; Jain, Rishubh; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 70 Ship St,Box G-0081, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [Wallace, Kieran J.] Stanford Univ, Dept Biol, Stanford, CA USA; [Painter, David F.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 70 Ship St,Box G-0081, Providence, RI 02903 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001329237700001	25	Article; Article		
J	Albuquerque, Maicon Rodrigues; Cunha, Andressa Eliza da Silva; de Araujo, Joao Locke Ferreira; Guimaraes, Rodrigo dos Santos; Rocha, Michele Rafaela Candida Ciriaco; Mesquita, Paulo H. C.; Pimenta, Eduardo Mendonca; de Souza, Renan Pedra								Relative Age Effect and <i>ACTN3 R577X</i> and <i>ACE I/D</i> Polymorphisms in Brazilian Football Players: An Association Genetic Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			327	337		10.1080/02701367.2024.2407883			APR 3 2025	2025	The Relative Age Effect (RAE) suggests older athletes within an annual cohort have advantages over their younger peers. We hypothesized that younger athletes could overcome these disadvantages through favorable alpha-actinin-3 (ACTN3) and angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) polymorphisms. This study aimed to: 1) examine RAE prevalence among Brazilian football players; 2) investigate the distribution of the ACTN3 and ACE polymorphisms; and 3) explore the association between polymorphisms and RAE across competitive levels and positions. The sample included 627 male players from first-division Brazilian teams in four age categories: U15 (n = 172), U17 (n = 166), U20 (n = 161), and Professionals (n = 128). A control group was established using data from the general Brazilian population documented in previous studies Results showed RAE presence across all competitive levels and positions. Players with the ACTN3 R allele, especially the RR genotype, had the strongest associations with football players, particularly among defenders. On the other hand, the distribution of ACE polymorphism was not significantly different between controls and players, except in the U17 category, where the I/I genotype was more common. Relatively older players had higher total genotype scores than younger counterparts in the overall sample and defender subgroups. In conclusion, RAE is prevalent among Brazilian football players, with older athletes benefiting from favorable ACTN3 and ACE polymorphisms, contrary to our initial hypothesis.		[Albuquerque, Maicon Rodrigues; Cunha, Andressa Eliza da Silva; Rocha, Michele Rafaela Candida Ciriaco; Pimenta, Eduardo Mendonca; de Souza, Renan Pedra] Univ Fed Minas Gerais UFMG, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [de Araujo, Joao Locke Ferreira] Univ Fed Bahia, Salvador, Brazil; [Guimaraes, Rodrigo dos Santos] Univ Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain; [Mesquita, Paulo H. C.] Oklahoma Med Res Fdn, Oklahoma City, OK USA; [Albuquerque, Maicon Rodrigues] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Dept Esportes, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Terapia Ocupac EEFF, Ave Presidente Carlos Luz 4664, BR-31120901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001328453800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Bertran, Fernando Leiva								Ranking in Incomplete Tournaments: The Generalized Win Percentage Method, Efficiency, and NCAA Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	1			3	34		10.1177/15270025241268738			JAN 2025	2025	I present a parsimonious family of scoring methods for ranking teams in incomplete tournaments. It is especially useful if teams play different number of games. I show that this family of scoring methods satisfies common sense theoretical properties studied by the literature on paired comparisons. I analyze it in terms of efficiency, defined as how close a scoring method comes to capturing what the teams' win percentages would have been, in a complete tournament. Finally, using data on betting odds, I calibrate the family of scoring methods to match, as closely as possible, the actual rankings that were used to determine the teams that would go on to compete for the championship of the NCAA division 1 football tournament between 2011 and 2023. I find that the rankings used by the NCAA were generally efficient and I quantify the biases present in each year's ranking.		[Bertran, Fernando Leiva] Arizona State Univ, Dept Econ, CPCOM 465-C,Main Campus, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA; [Bertran, Fernando Leiva] Arizona State Univ, Dept Econ, CPCOM 465-C,Main Campus, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001346114500001	53	Article; Article		
J	Rogers, Timothy; Gill, Nicholas; Beaven, Christopher M.								Characterizations and practical applications of off-feet conditioning interval training in open skill sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			116	122		10.1177/17479541241286294			FEB 1 2025	2025	The high intensity of training to improve performance in open skill sports such as team invasion and combat sports can have potential negative effects. As a result non-specific forms of training collectively called Off-Feet Conditioning (OFC) have been used to mitigate the possible impact of training. This study conducted a survey of active practitioners in open skill sports into the use of OFC. There were 158 respondents from 16 countries, with an average experience of 11.5 +/- 7.6y experience working with open skill sports. Questions were divided into five categories: responder information implementation, perceived effectiveness, equipment selection and an applicable definition of OFC. A high percentage of respondents employ OFC methods in their typical training programs in conjunction with traditional run-based training. Typically respondents used OFC methods twice per week. While OFC is most commonly used for aerobic development, research suggests that OFC may also be used to improve other areas of physical performance. Short-interval training (15-60s) are most frequently prescribed method of OFC and is typically used to target aerobic adaptations. Electronic ergometers, or "cardio equipment" were the most commonly used category of equipment, with cycle ergometers were the most commonly used form of OFC. Based on survey responses, we propose that OFC can be defined as "any non-running or non-impact training designed to reduce load and improve physical performance". This definition will differentiate OFC from the broader term "cross-training" which may include skill and tactical transfer from one sport to another.		[Rogers, Timothy; Gill, Nicholas; Beaven, Christopher M.] Univ Waikato, Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Adams Ctr, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Rogers, Timothy] One NZ Warriors Rugby League Club, Auckland, New Zealand; [Gill, Nicholas] New Zealand Rugby Union, Wellington, New Zealand; [Rogers, Timothy] POB 12-224, Auckland 1641, New Zealand								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001329711800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Urban, Jillian E.; Moore, Justin B.; Faber, Lydia L.; Marks, Madison E.; Holcomb, Ty D.; Miles, Christopher M.; Flashman, Laura A.; Otallah, Scott I.; Stitzel, Joel D.; Foley, Kristie L.								Understanding beliefs and perceptions of parents, coaches, and organizational leaders toward non-concussive head impact exposure in youth American football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			22	34		10.1177/17479541241285404			FEB 1 2025	2025	Concussions are a prevalent public health concern; however, non-concussive head impacts without signs and symptoms of concussion may have a greater influence on brain health. The objective of this study was to apply components of the health belief model to perceptions of non-concussive head impacts and preventative efforts to reduce head impacts in youth American football and thematically analyze responses across parents with children participating in youth football, coaches, and organizational leaders. Parents, coaches, and organizational leaders of a local youth football league were invited to complete a one-time online anonymous survey assessing football and sport history, knowledge, beliefs, perceived susceptibility, perceived severity, self-efficacy, and demographics. Principal factor analysis was conducted prior to scoring measurements evaluated in this study. Parents perceived the susceptibility and severity of head impacts in football to be greater than coaches and organizational leaders; however, coaches and organizational leaders had greater beliefs and self-efficacy surrounding head impact safety efforts in football compared to parents. Understanding beliefs and perceptions of key stakeholders in the youth football community is critical to the development and implementation of prevention programs aimed at reducing head impact exposure in the sport.		[Urban, Jillian E.; Moore, Justin B.; Faber, Lydia L.; Marks, Madison E.; Holcomb, Ty D.; Miles, Christopher M.; Flashman, Laura A.; Otallah, Scott I.; Stitzel, Joel D.; Foley, Kristie L.] Wake Forest Univ, Sch Med, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Urban, Jillian E.; Marks, Madison E.; Holcomb, Ty D.; Stitzel, Joel D.] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Biomed Engn, Sch Med, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Urban, Jillian E.; Marks, Madison E.; Holcomb, Ty D.; Stitzel, Joel D.] Wake Forest Univ, Virginia Tech, Sch Biomed Engn & Sci, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Moore, Justin B.; Foley, Kristie L.] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Implementat Sci, Sch Med, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Moore, Justin B.] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Epidemiol Prevent, Sch Med, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Moore, Justin B.; Foley, Kristie L.] Wake Forest Univ, Div Publ Hlth Sci, Sch Med, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Miles, Christopher M.] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Family & Community Med, Sch Med, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Flashman, Laura A.] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Neurol Neuropsychol, Sch Med, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Otallah, Scott I.] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Neurol Pediat, Sch Med, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Urban, Jillian E.] 575 N Patterson Ave,Suite 530, Winston Salem, NC 27101 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001326599000001	74	Article; Article		
J	Born, Dennis-Peter; Burkhardt, David; Buck, Markus; Schwab, Laurie; Romann, Michael								Key performance indicators and reference values for turn performance in elite youth, junior and adult swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			2085	2105		10.1080/14763141.2024.2409657			JUL 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to determine kinematic and kinetic key performance indicators (KPI) of swimming turn performance using principal component analysis (PCA) and multiple linear regression analysis and provide reference values using percentiles. Touch and tumble turn performances of male (n = 68) and female (n = 48) Swiss national team members from three age categories-adult (20.2 +/- 2.7 yrs, 790 +/- 57 points), junior (16.2 +/- 0.8 yrs, 729 +/- 53 points) and youth swimmers (14.4 +/- 1.0 years of age, 667 +/- 53 World Aquatics swimming points, respectively)-were assessed with a motion analysis system equipped with a force plate on the pool wall, one over- and four underwater cameras sampling forces at 500 Hz and footages at 100 Hz. The PCA reduced the 27 original variables by up to 15% depending on turn type and age category using Varimax component loading of >0.6 and explained up to 91% of the total variance. The highest Varimax component loadings for each principal component were used to determine KPI for each turn type and age category using multiple-regression analysis with total turn time as dependent variable. These KPI should be used to interpret turn performances and identify individual swimmers' strengths, weaknesses and future potentials with the help of the percentiles as reference values.		[Born, Dennis-Peter; Burkhardt, David; Buck, Markus] Swiss Swimming Federat, Sect Highperformance Sports, Bern, Switzerland; [Born, Dennis-Peter; Schwab, Laurie; Romann, Michael] Swiss Fed Inst Sport Magglingen, Dept Elite Sport, Magglingen, Switzerland; [Schwab, Laurie] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sports Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Born, Dennis-Peter] Swiss Swimming Federat, Sect Highperformance Sports, Bern, Switzerland; [Born, Dennis-Peter] Swiss Fed Inst Sport Magglingen, Dept Elite Sport, Magglingen, Switzerland								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001326851700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Pasurka, Mario; Szlufcik, Mike; Theodoropoulos, John; Betsch, Marcel								Return-to-sports criteria used by professional team physicians in elite athletes after hip arthroscopy - a qualitative study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			64	71		10.1080/00913847.2024.2410148			JAN 2 2025	2025	ObjectivesThe purpose of this study was to explore currently utilized readiness to Return to Sport (RTS) criteria after Hip Arthroscopy (HA) used in elite athletes to gain novel insights into the RTS decision-making process of professional team physicians. The authors hypothesized that even among this group of highly specialized physicians, there exists variability of measures and criteria used to determine RTS after HA.MethodsA total of 15 qualitative semi-structured interviews with professional team physicians were conducted by a single trained interviewer. The interviews were used to identify team physician concepts and themes regarding the criteria used to determine RTS after HA. Themes and sub-themes were identified using a general inductive analysis and a coding process. A hierarchical approach in coding helped to link themes.ResultsFour key themes and several subordinate themes were identified from the interviews that seem to influence the return to sports decision. The most important RTS criteria were muscle strength (especially symmetric hip strength and muscle bulk with low side-to-side variance compared to the contralateral side) followed by pain-free sport-specific activity (pain-free drill skills and play at a lower level), physical examination (with major emphasis on the absence of hip pain with a painless hip range of motion compared to the contralateral side), and functional testing (including full squats, Ober test, FABER test, and pain-free FADIR position).ConclusionBesides objective findings, including muscle strength, we identified time after surgery as well as subjective findings, including absence of pain and feedback of clinical team members that influence RTS decision after HA. We showed that even among specialized professional team physicians, the main criteria to RTS in these categories were not consistent necessitating the further development of specific RTS guidelines.		[Pasurka, Mario; Szlufcik, Mike; Betsch, Marcel] Friedrich Alexander Univ Erlangen Nuremberg, Univ Hosp Erlangen, Dept Orthopaed & Trauma Surg, Krankenhausstr 12, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany; [Theodoropoulos, John] Univ Toronto Orthopaed Sports Med Program UTOSM, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Pasurka, Mario] Friedrich Alexander Univ Erlangen Nuremberg, Univ Hosp Erlangen, Dept Orthopaed & Trauma Surg, Krankenhausstr 12, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001322340600001	49	Article; Article		
J	Kania, Damian; Romaniszyn-Kania, Patrycja; Bugdol, Monika; Tuszy, Aleksandra; Ledwon, Daniel; Pollak, Anita; Mitas, Andrzej W.								Flow and Physiological Response Assessment during Exercise Using Metrorhythmic Stimuli								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				243	254		10.5114/jhk/187804			OCT 2024	2024	Activity and physical effort positively affect a person's psychophysical state and emotional experience. Interest in the phenomenon of flow, the state of perceived arousal, stems from its relationship to an individual's intrinsic motivation. Flow is an area of research in many fields, including sports. Nowadays, solutions are being sought to support the traditional assessment of cognitive and affective states using analysis of physiological signals. Therefore, the present study analysed and estimated the physiological responses that may occur during the induction of a flow state between exercises stimulated by additional metrorhythmic stimuli. Thirty-six healthy subjects participated in the study. The effects of various metrorhythmic stimuli on the body's physiological response during the subjects' free gait were examined. The physiological response and flow intensity were evaluated when the rate of individual stimuli was changed, and the rate was enforced. Several statistically significant variables and correlations were determined for physiological indicators depending on the stage of the study conducted and the level of flow experienced. A positive, statistically significant correlation of flow and HRV frequency variables was obtained. The results also confirm previous literature reports on the relationship between flow response and frequency heart rate variability during physical activity.		[Kania, Damian] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Romaniszyn-Kania, Patrycja; Bugdol, Monika; Tuszy, Aleksandra; Ledwon, Daniel; Mitas, Andrzej W.] Silesian Tech Univ, Fac Biomed Engn, Zabrze, Poland; [Pollak, Anita] Univ Silesia Katowice, Inst Psychol, Katowice, Poland; [Romaniszyn-Kania, Patrycja; Bugdol, Monika] Silesian Tech Univ, Fac Biomed Engn, Zabrze, Poland								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300019	40	Article; Article		
J	Beranek, Vaclav; Stastny, Petr; Bacik, Bogdan; Bonkowski, Tomasz; Novacek, Vit								The Effect of Protective Mat Thickness on the Upper Limb Strike Force Simulation in Combat Sports and Self Defense								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				47	63		10.5114/jhk/192131			OCT 2024	2024	The strike force in combat sports strongly depends on the protective material's mechanical properties and energy absorption capacity. Therefore, this study aimed to estimate the effect of the protective layer thickness and repeated loading on the net force in a falling weight impact test. A falling 8-kg weight dropped from 15 cm, 25 cm, and 50 cm was used to simulate impact peak forces in an upper limb strike. Transfer linear regression functions were identified for three layers of different thickness (1.8 cm, 3.6 cm, and 5.4 cm) between the measured force and undamped force that would be measured if no protective layer was used. A decrease in damping performance under repetitive loading was assessed for the same amount of energy (30 J) absorbed by the specimens. There were 36 specimens examined in 126 tests. When the measuring apparatus was covered with one, two or three layers of Trocellen foam, the undamped force was approximately 2.8, 6.1, and 11.1 times higher, respectively (p < 0.05, R-2 >= 0.95), than the force measured in the kinetic design. This allows researchers to select the number of layers according to the individual needs in terms of safety and injury prevention. A single layer of Trocellen foam used in this study may be insufficient to ensure the safety of athletes in upper limb strike experiments due to possible compaction of the foam structure for deformations exceeding 80% compression and forces exceeding 5 kN, although no injury was previously observed.		[Beranek, Vaclav; Novacek, Vit] Univ West Bohemia, Fac Hlth Care Studies, Dept Rehabil Fields, Plzen, Czech Republic; [Beranek, Vaclav; Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sports Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Bacik, Bogdan] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland; [Bonkowski, Tomasz; Novacek, Vit] Univ West Bohemia, New Technol Res Ctr, Biomech Human Body Models, Plzen, Czech Republic; [Bonkowski, Tomasz] Univ West Bohemia, Fac Appl Sci, Dept Mech, Plzen, Czech Republic; [Beranek, Vaclav] Univ West Bohemia, Fac Hlth Care Studies, Dept Rehabil Fields, Plzen, Czech Republic; [Beranek, Vaclav] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sports Games, Prague, Czech Republic								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300004	69	Article; Article		
J	Luan, Lijiang; Xia, Zhengliang; Adams, Roger; Ganderton, Charlotte; Tirosh, Oren; El-Ansary, Doa; Pranata, Adrian; Han, Jia								Gluteus Medius for Individuals with Chronic Ankle Instability: Assessing Muscle Activity								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				5	21		10.5114/jhk/190267			OCT 2024	2024	Emerging evidence has suggested that gluteus medius (GM) muscle activity may be critical for functional performance in individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI). This study aimed to systematically review the literature to determine whether there are differences in GM muscle activity between individuals with and without CAI. A undertaken from the year of inception to 10 June 2024. Studies that investigated GM muscle activity during physical activities in healthy controls or copers and individuals with CAI were included. The quality assessment was conducted using the Newcastle-Ottawa Quality scale (NOS). After review, forty studies (1840 participants) were included; NOS scoring for the included studies ranged from 5/9 to 9/9 stars. GM activity was reported for seven activities: walking (14 cutting (three studies), and other functional exercises (seven studies). The outcome measures selected to examine each task varied across studies, and electromyography (EMG) results were inconsistent. Overall, although the quality of the available studies was generally high, there were substantial methodological differences, and the activity of GM muscles in CAI participants compared to controls was equivocal. A consensus on standardization of GM muscle activity assessment reporting should be established to guide future studies.		[Luan, Lijiang; Xia, Zhengliang; Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Adams, Roger] Univ Sydney, Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, Sydney, Australia; [Adams, Roger; Han, Jia] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, Australia; [Ganderton, Charlotte; Pranata, Adrian; Han, Jia] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Nursing & Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Australia; [Ganderton, Charlotte; Tirosh, Oren; El-Ansary, Doa; Pranata, Adrian] RMIT Univ, Royal Melbourne Inst Technol, Sch Hlth & Biomed Sci, Melbourne, Australia; [Ganderton, Charlotte; Tirosh, Oren; El-Ansary, Doa; Pranata, Adrian; Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [El-Ansary, Doa] Univ Melbourne, Melbourne Med Sch, Dept Surg, Melbourne, Australia; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, Australia; [Han, Jia] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Nursing & Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Australia; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300001	79	Article; Article		
J	Kawamoto, Yuta; Suzuki, Takahito; Lino, Yoichi; Yoshioka, Shinsuke; Takeshita, Daisuke; Fukashiro, Senshi								Poor Joint Work in the Lower Limbs during a Tennis Forehand Groundstroke after a Cross-Over Step Inhibits an Increase in the Racket Speed								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				77	90		10.5114/jhk/186535			OCT 2024	2024	A forward run-up and stepping are used to accelerate hitting tools or throwing objects in sports. This study aimed to investigate the effect of a forward cross-over step on the speed of a hitting tool by analyzing the joint work and mechanical energy of the whole body and the hitting tool using inverse dynamics. Thirteen advanced tennis players performed forehand groundstrokes at maximum effort with and without a forward cross-over step. From the whole body plus racket perspective, the body-weight-normalized mechanical energy at the start of the hitting motion increased by 1.74 +/- 0.42 J<middle dot>kg(-1) due to the cross-over step. However, the increase in the magnitude of total negative joint work, primarily attributed to the lower limbs, was 1.38 +/- 0.31 J<middle dot>kg(-1) due to the cross-over step, conventionally regarded as energy absorption. Consequently, the mechanical energy of the whole body plus the racket at ball impact was comparable between the conditions. Nevertheless, from the segmental perspective, the mechanical work performed by the net shoulder joint force of the playing upper limb with the cross-over step during the hitting motion was greater than that without the crossover step. Subsequently, the slight increase in the mechanical energy of the playing upper limb plus racket (0.25 +/- 0.21 J<middle dot>kg(-1)) resulted in increased racket speed (4.3%). Considering the comparable total mechanical energy and a resultant increase in racket speed, players and coaches should not overestimate the effect of the forward step on racket speed.		[Kawamoto, Yuta; Lino, Yoichi; Yoshioka, Shinsuke; Takeshita, Daisuke] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Suzuki, Takahito] Okinawa Univ, Fac Humanities, Dept Welf & Culture, Okinawa, Japan; [Fukashiro, Senshi] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Kawamoto, Yuta] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300006	31	Article; Article		
J	Leonska-Duniec, Agata; Maculewicz, Ewelina; Massidda, Myosotis; Buryta, Maciej; Mastalerz, Andrzej; Cieszczyk, Pawed								Impact of the<i> TTN C</i> > T Polymorphism on Selected Variables of Aerobic and Anaerobic Capacity after a 12-Week Training Program								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				117	125		10.5114/jhk/191847			OCT 2024	2024	The TTN gene encodes a large muscle protein called titin, which provides structure, stability, and flexibility to skeletal and cardiac sarcomeres. The aim of this study was to determine whether the TTN C > T polymorphism (rs10497520) influenced training-induced changes in selected variables of aerobic and anaerobic capacity. We studied genotypes distribution in a group of 156 Caucasian females examined for aerobic capacity evaluated by maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), and anaerobic capacity measured with the Wingate anaerobic test, before and after a 12-week training program. The most important finding was a genotype by training interaction for anaerobic capacity (AnC) during the Wingate test (p = 0.003). In response to training, carriers of the CT and TT genotypes demonstrated a significant increase in the total amount of work accomplished. We also showed that the applied training program improved all the Wingate test variables in the CT + TT genotype group by 10%. The obtained results suggest that the CT and TT genotypes may enhance anaerobic power and anaerobic capacity changes induced by regular training. We also suggest that T allele carriers may possess a metabolic adaptive advantage towards the anaerobic metabolism. Thus, the TTN gene may be considered a promising marker used in sports science, underlying variability in achieving sporting goals in events where the anaerobic energy system predominates.		[Leonska-Duniec, Agata; Cieszczyk, Pawed] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Maculewicz, Ewelina; Mastalerz, Andrzej] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Massidda, Myosotis] Univ Cagliari, Dept Med Sci & Publ Hlth, Cagliari, Italy; [Buryta, Maciej] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Szczecin, Poland; [Leonska-Duniec, Agata] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300009	29	Article; Article		
J	Galan-Rioja, Miguel angel; Gonzalez-Mohino, Fernando; Abian-Vicen, Javier; Gonzalez-Rave, Jose Maria								Comparison of Physiological Responses between a W<acute accent>BAL-INT Training Model and a Critical Power Test								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				105	115		10.5114/jhk/186976			OCT 2024	2024	This study aimed to compare acute physiological responses during the W prime (W<acute accent>) balance training model (W<acute accent>BAL-INT) with performance in the critical power test (CPTest). Test ). Additionally, the study sought to determine the extent of neuromuscular and metabolic fatigue associated with severe and extreme intensity domains. Fourteen road master cyclists (13 male, 1 female) completed graded incremental exercise tests to determine their maximum oxygen uptake and 12-, 7- and 3-min maximal efforts to assess CP and W<acute accent> (CPTest). Test ). Additionally, they participated in a reconstitutive intermittent training session following the W<acute accent>BAL-INT model. Physiological responses including oxygen uptake (VO2), 2 ), the heart rate (HR), blood lactate (BLa<overline>) concentration, and perceptual responses (RPE), were measured and compared to CP Test performance data. The W<acute accent>BAL-INT induced steady-state physiological responses in VO 2mean (F = 0.76, p = 0.655) and absolute HR, relative HR and HRCP CP (F = 0.70, p = 0.704; F = 1.11, p = 0.359; F = 1.70, p = 0.095, respectively) comparable to CP Test . During the 3-min work intervals in the training session, VO2 2 was stable and similar to VO 2peak (54.2 +/- 6.7 to 59.3 +/- 4.9 ml<middle dot>kg-1<middle dot>min-1) - 1 <middle dot>min - 1 ) in the CP Test . Furthermore, 4-min rest intervals facilitated recovery up to moderate fatigue levels (80-100% of W<acute accent> balance). HR responses were sensitive to interval intensity and accumulated time. Meanwhile, BLa<overline> responses and the RPE increased fatigue development during W<acute accent>BAL-INT. The W<acute accent>BAL-INT training model generates consistent physiological responses in mean oxygen kinetics, the percentage of CP and the HR, similar to those observed during the CP Test . However, different physiological responses were observed in peak oxygen kinetics and W<acute accent> energy balance.		[Galan-Rioja, Miguel angel; Gonzalez-Mohino, Fernando; Gonzalez-Rave, Jose Maria] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sport Sci, Sport Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Galan-Rioja, Miguel angel] Int Univ La Rioja, Fac Hlth, Logrono, Spain; [Gonzalez-Mohino, Fernando] Univ Nebrija, Fac Ciencias Vida & Nat, Madrid, Spain; [Abian-Vicen, Javier] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sport Sci, Performance & Sport Rehabil Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Gonzalez-Mohino, Fernando] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sport Sci, Sport Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Gonzalez-Mohino, Fernando] Univ Nebrija, Fac Ciencias Vida & Nat, Madrid, Spain								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300008	38	Article; Article		
J	Barthelemy, Benjamin; Rave, Guillaume; Govindasamy, Karuppasamy; Ali, Ajmol; Del Coso, Juan; Demeaux, Julien; Bideau, Benoit; Zouhal, Hassane								Impact of Technical-Tactical and Physical Performance on the Match Outcome in Professional Soccer: A Case Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				203	214		10.5114/jhk/185933			OCT 2024	2024	Match outcomes and championship rankings are the consequence of the team's technical, tactical, and physical variables. This study aimed to compare physical and modern technical-tactical performance variables between matches with different outcomes for a professional soccer team. Total distance covered, distance covered between 20.0 and 25.0 km/h, and at > 25.0 km/h, distance covered at >= 3 m/s(2) and at <= -3 m<middle dot>s(-2) along with several modern technical-tactical variables (expected goals in favor (xG) and against (xGA), expected goals chain in favor (xGC) and against (xGCA) and passes per defensive action (PPDA)) were collected for 71 soccer matches during the 2020/2021 and 2021/2022 seasons from a team competing in the French Ligue 2. These technical-tactical and running performance variables were obtained by a validated video tracking system (OPTA) and their values per match were compared depending on the match outcome which was categorized as "loss" (L), "draw" (D) or "win" (W). No significant differences were observed for the different running metrics depending on the match outcome. However, significant differences were observed for xGA (0.70 f 0.39 vs. 1.24 f 0.59; p(bonferroni)= 0.004) and xGCA (5.38 f 2.78 vs. 10.92 f 6.18; p(bonferroni) = 0.002) between wins and losses, respectively. Additionally, there was a weak, but significant correlation between xGCA and distance covered in acceleration (r = 0.255; p = 0.032) and deceleration (r = 0.237; p = 0.047). In conclusion, while our study found associations between technical-tactical variables and match outcomes, causality cannot be inferred. Improved technical-tactical performance may positively impact the match result, especially by the reduction of the opposing team's goal expectancy. On the contrary, running performance variables showed no associations with the match outcome.		[Barthelemy, Benjamin; Bideau, Benoit; Zouhal, Hassane] Univ Rennes 2, Movement Sport Hlth & Sci Lab M2S, UFR STAPS, ENS Cachan, Rennes, France; [Barthelemy, Benjamin; Rave, Guillaume; Demeaux, Julien] Toulouse Football Club, Toulouse, France; [Govindasamy, Karuppasamy] SRM Inst Sci & Technol, Coll Sci & Humanities, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Kattankulathur, Tamil Nadu, India; [Ali, Ajmol] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Auckland, New Zealand; [Del Coso, Juan] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Sport Sci Res Ctr, Fuenlabrada, Spain; [Zouhal, Hassane] Inst Int Sci Sport 2IS, F-35850 Irodouer, France; [Zouhal, Hassane] Univ Rennes 2, Movement Sport Hlth & Sci Lab M2S, UFR STAPS, ENS Cachan, Rennes, France; [Zouhal, Hassane] Inst Int Sci Sport 2IS, F-35850 Irodouer, France								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300016	42	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Lian; Meng, Qiao; Lipowski, Mariusz								Effects of Emotional States on the Spatial Perception of Youth Athletes with Different Alerting Efficiencies								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				255	267		10.5114/jhk/187257			OCT 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to explore the role of the attentional alerting network in spatial perceptual processing in youth athletes under different emotional states. Two hundred and fifty participants were recruited to assess alerting efficiency using the Attention Network Test and were divided into high and low alerting efficiency groups based on the front and back 27% of the alerting scores as a dividing metric. Subsequently, participants completed the Spatial Perception Response Task under different emotionally induced conditions. Results showed a correlation between alerting efficiency and spatial perception, the higher the alerting efficiency, the faster and more accurate the spatial perception response. Emotion and spatial location interacted significantly (p < 0.05), and subjects in the angry emotional state had faster spatial responses to the lower left visual field than those in the happy emotional state. Moreover, an interaction was found for location accuracy (p < 0.05). The high alerting efficiency group showed lower accuracy in the anger state than in the happy state. These findings suggest that alerting efficiency can be used as an objective indicator for assessing the spatial perceptual ability of youth athletes, which provides empirical evidence for mental selection and perceptual training of youth athletes.		[Wang, Lian] Chengdu Sport Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lian; Meng, Qiao] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Culture, Gdansk, Poland; [Lipowski, Mariusz] WSB Merito Gdansk, Fac Social & Humanities, Gdansk, Poland; [Wang, Lian] Chengdu Sport Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lian] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Culture, Gdansk, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300020	42	Article; Article		
J	Nakata, Kaito; Mishima, Takaaki								Plyometric Exercise Transiently Enhances Twitch Torque but Fails to Enhance the Rate of Force Development Evaluated Using the Isometric Midthigh Pull								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				171	180		10.5114/jhk/186979			OCT 2024	2024	The effects of jump exercises as a conditioning activity (CA) on the rate of force development (RFD) measured during the isometric midthigh pull (IMTP) have not been investigated. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the effect of the CA comprising three sets of five countermovement jumps on the RFD measured during the IMTP, and furthermore to investigate whether post-activity potentiation (PAP) would be involved in this mechanism. Thirteen healthy male university students (age: 19.7 +/- 0.6 years; training experience: 3.0 +/- 1.4 years) participated in five sessions. Initially, the twitch torque was elicited by electrical stimulation after the CA to investigate whether PAP was elicited. Participants then completed the following four sessions: experimental condition sessions, in which the IMTP was performed 1 or 4 min after the CA, and control condition sessions, in which the IMTP was performed 7 or 10 min after the premeasurement because the experimental condition included a 2-min rest interval before the CA and approximately 4 min were required to perform the CA. One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with Bonferroni post-hoc adjustments revealed the presence of PAP 1 and 2 min after the CA. Two-way ANOVA revealed significant interaction effects for the 0-200 ms and 0-250 ms RFD at the 1st min, and the 0-150 ms and 0-250 ms RFD at the 4th min after the CA. However, the Bonferroni post-hoc test failed to detect any significant increase in the RFD index under the experimental conditions. The CA with jump exercises induced PAP up to 2 min after the CA implementation, but failed to significantly increase the RFD measured by the IMTP.		[Nakata, Kaito; Mishima, Takaaki] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Grad Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Sennan, Osaka, Japan; [Mishima, Takaaki] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Sennan, Osaka, Japan; [Nakata, Kaito] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Grad Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Sennan, Osaka, Japan								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300013	24	Article; Article		
J	Bai, Yinchuan; Xu, Naidan; Li, Xiangchen; Shen, Yupeng								The Reliability of Specific Physical Fitness Assessments in Elite Female Chinese Wrestlers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				191	202		10.5114/jhk/187855			OCT 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to evaluate the reliability of eight specific fitness tests for elite female Chinese wrestlers. Twenty-eight elite female wrestlers participated in the study (age: 26.9 +/- 2.81 years). The reliability of the tests was analyzed using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and the 95% confidence interval (CI), the coefficient of variation (CV), and other metrics. The 30-s Sit-Up (SU30) and 6-m Rope Climb (RC6m) tests showed excellent reliability (ICC > 0.9). The 30-s Dummy Throw (DT30) had good to excellent reliability, while the 30-s Bridge-Return (B-R30) showed moderate to good reliability. The 30-s Burpee (BUR30), 15-s Leg Attack (LA15), 15-s Leg Defense (LD15), and tests displayed low variability (CV < 5%), while others exhibited moderate variability. SU30, B-R30, DT30, and RC6m tests are reliable for assessing wrestling fitness. However, BUR30 and LA15 tests showed high variability and should be used carefully. LD15 and DS&GW tests are not recommended for assessing fitness in elite female wrestlers.		[Bai, Yinchuan; Li, Xiangchen] China Inst Sport Sci, Smart Sports & Innovat Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Xu, Naidan] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Acad, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Shen, Yupeng] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Shen, Yupeng] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300015	43	Article; Article		
J	Morgans, Ryland; Radnor, John; Nisbet, Daniel; Teixeira, Jose; Modric, Toni; Bezuglov, Eduard; Ceylan, Halil Ibrahim; Kavanagh, Ronan; Zmijewski, Piotr; Oliveira, Rafael								The Relative Age Effect across an International Soccer Programme in Male and Female Players Aged 12 Years Old to Seniors								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				94				157	169		10.5114/jhk/186563			OCT 2024	2024	The purpose of the study was to examine the prevalence of the Relative Age Effect (RAE) across an international soccer programme in male and female players aged 12 years old to seniors. One hundred forty-five male (age: 18.8 +/- 4.6 years; body mass: 68.1 +/- 10.2 kg; body height: 177.3 +/- 10.5 cm) and 218 female (age: 15.9 +/- 4.6 years; body mass: 66.2 +/- 10.5 kg; body height: 170.6 +/- 8.3 cm) players from a National Association were assessed. All participants were divided into four quartiles: January to March (BQ1), April to June (BQ2), July to September (BQ3), and October to December (BQ4). The results showed that the distributions for all male squads were significantly skewed, with more players than expected from BQ1 in the U-21, U-19, and U-17 and less players than expected from BQ4 in the U-19 squad. The distributions for all female squads showed significantly more players than expected from BQ1 in the U-16 and less players than expected from BQ4 in the U-14 squad. The distributions across the different positions for the male squads combined were significantly skewed with more forward players than expected from BQ1 and less forward and midfielder players than expected from BQ4. For the female squads, there were significantly more BQ1 defenders from the U-16 squad than expected. In conclusion, this study unveils significant disparities in quartile distributions among male and female squads. Moreover, the data emphasize the potential impact of heightened physical demands in certain positions on the RAE.		[Morgans, Ryland; Radnor, John; Nisbet, Daniel] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Nisbet, Daniel] FA Wales, Cardiff, Wales; [Teixeira, Jose] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Guarda, Portugal; [Teixeira, Jose] Polytech Inst Braganca, LiveWell Res Ctr Act Living & Wellbeing, Braganca, Portugal; [Modric, Toni] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Split, Croatia; [Modric, Toni] Croatian Olymp Comm, High Performance Sport Ctr, Zagreb, Croatia; [Bezuglov, Eduard] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, Dept Sports Med & Med Rehabil, Moscow, Russia; [Ceylan, Halil Ibrahim] Ataturk Univ, Fac Kazim Karabekir Educ, Phys Educ Sports Teaching Dept, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Kavanagh, Ronan] Univ Cent Lancashire, Football Performance Hub, Preston, England; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Oliveira, Rafael] Santarem Polytech Univ, Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Oliveira, Rafael] Santarem Polytech Univ, Sch Sport, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Morgans, Ryland] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001339846300012	35	Article; Article		
J	Colomar, Joshua; Pena, Javier; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi; Baiget, Ernest								Minimizing Maladaptations Derived From Tennis Serve Training and Competition Loads								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	5			511	519		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000824			OCT 2024	2024	Junior tennis players perform many high-intensity serves during practice and competition. These demands can potentially put specific musculoskeletal structures at risk of developing negative adaptations that can increase the likelihood of injury. In addition, serve velocity enhancement sessions commonly include motion-specific resistance training approaches that can increase the load on these already at-risk muscles and joints. Therefore, it is essential to address holistically the optimization of serve training. To minimize harmful musculoskeletal adaptations and maximize performance, a multiperspective approach is advised when designing a serve training program for junior tennis players. This paper will propose methodological recommendations that can be included in these programs. Examples and suggestions include the benefits of incorporating general strength training tasks to minimize asymmetries and build robustness. Furthermore, on-court injury prevention protocols are proposed to target specific altered body structures and overall serving loads. Finally, load management strategies should ensure that training is controlled and organized appropriately.		[Colomar, Joshua; Pena, Javier; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi] Univ Vic, Sport Exercise & Human Movement Res Grp SEaHM, Cent Univ Catalonia, Vic, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua; Pena, Javier; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi] Univ Vic, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Cent Univ Catalonia, Vic, Spain; [Baiget, Ernest] Univ Barcelona UB, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Univ Vic, Sport Exercise & Human Movement Res Grp SEaHM, Cent Univ Catalonia, Vic, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Univ Vic, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Cent Univ Catalonia, Vic, Spain								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001328283200009	97	Article; Article		
J	Kraemer, William J.; Nitka, Mike								Starter Steps as to the Importance of Keeping an Accurate Training Log								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	5			619	623		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000835			OCT 2024	2024	Despite advances in strength and conditioning science, a gap exists in the optimal utilization of training logs for athlete monitoring. Accurate logs serve as a critical interface for player development, offering real-time evaluation and enabling long-term data analysis. This article addresses the reluctance among professionals to transition from traditional paper-based methods to digital platforms, citing this as a hindrance to correlating workout data with performance metrics. It emphasizes the individualized nature of training adaptation and the necessity of advanced technologies and software skills for effective program evaluation. The article also details critical variables to be captured in workout logs, both quantitative and qualitative, and underscores their role in decision-making, workout efficacy, and athlete safety. By embracing digital advancements, professionals can elevate the quality of strength and conditioning programs, ensuring they are executed as designed and achieve desired outcomes.		[Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Athlet, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Nitka, Mike] Muskego High Sch, Muskego, WI USA; [Nitka, Mike] Carroll Univ, Waukesha, WI USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Athlet, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001328283200005	2	Article; Article		
J	Lulla, Sunny S.; Hanney, William J.; Rothschild, Carey E.; Kolber, Morey J.; Wilson, Abigail T.								Strength and Conditioning Considerations for the Orchestral Musician: A Practical Approach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	5			552	566		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000833			OCT 2024	2024	Playing a musical instrument necessitates stability in the hands, neck, shoulders, and trunk, involving both isotonic and isometric movements, muscular endurance, and various other physical demands. Musicians, especially those engaged in professional or educational pursuits, often dedicate several hours each day to practicing and performing. Despite the substantial physical challenges associated with musical performance, the realm of performing arts medicine lacks comprehensive research and practical methodologies tailored to adequately address the conditioning requirements of musicians. Musculoskeletal discomfort is prevalent among professional musicians, predominantly affecting the upper body. Instrumental players encounter issues such as musculoskeletal overuse, nerve entrapment, focal dystonia, and other playing-related musculoskeletal disorders, which can persist for extended periods. Consequently, this article aims to present a specialized strength and conditioning regimen tailored for instrumental musicians participating in large music ensembles, specifically symphony orchestras and wind bands. The guide will identify the mechanics inherent to playing these instruments and the prevalent injuries associated with them. Using this information, a strength and conditioning protocol suitable for the application within a symphony orchestra and wind band music classrooms will be presented.		[Lulla, Sunny S.] Melbourne High Sch, Melbourne, Australia; [Hanney, William J.; Rothschild, Carey E.] Univ Cent Florida, Phys Therapy Program, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL USA; [Wilson, Abigail T.] Univ Cent Florida, Div Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL USA; [Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Phys Therapy Program, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001328283200007	17	Article; Article		
J	Rodriguez Porras, Lester Daniel; Solano-Mora, Luis; Rivas-Borbon, Milton; Moreno-Villanueva, Adrian; Soler-Lopez, Alejandro; Pino-Ortega, Jose; Ugalde-Ramirez, Jose Alexis								Profile of Physical Demands in Female Soccer Players During Competitions: A Systematic Review								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	5			567	586		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000829			OCT 2024	2024	The rapid expansion of women's soccer has triggered scientific curiosity to gain a deeper understanding of its game dynamics. To organize scientific findings related to the physical demands of women's soccer during official competitions, contextual factors such as game positions, match periods, type of competition, and match outcomes have been considered. This aims to provide a comprehensive and current overview of physical exertion profiles. This systematic review included PubMed, Scopus, SPORTDiscus, Web of Science, Science Direct, ERIC, and Scielo electronic databases. A total of 1,859 studies were found, of which, after meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria, 28 articles were selected. The study found high variability in racing thresholds for high speeds, with central midfielders covering more total distance and wingers covering more distance at high intensities. Forwards register more sprints, and physical efforts decrease in the second period of the game. International matches demand more effort, and physical demands in women's soccer are influenced by contextual factors. To design effective training programs, specific profiles for each game position and the type of competition should be considered, and standardization of high intensity and acceleration thresholds is necessary for accurate conclusions.		[Rodriguez Porras, Lester Daniel; Solano-Mora, Luis; Rivas-Borbon, Milton; Ugalde-Ramirez, Jose Alexis] Natl Univ, Fac Sci Human Movement & Qual Life, Heredia, Costa Rica; [Moreno-Villanueva, Adrian] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Moreno-Villanueva, Adrian; Soler-Lopez, Alejandro; Pino-Ortega, Jose] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, BIOVETMED & SPORTSCI Res Grp, Murcia, Spain; [Soler-Lopez, Alejandro; Pino-Ortega, Jose] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, San Javier, Spain; [Soler-Lopez, Alejandro] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, BIOVETMED & SPORTSCI Res Grp, Murcia, Spain; [Soler-Lopez, Alejandro] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, San Javier, Spain								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001328283200003	60	Article; Article		
J	Monaco, Jerry-Thomas; Boergers, Richard; Cappaert, Thomas; Miller, Michael								A Comprehensive Needs Analysis on Surfing Performance Factors and Training Methodologies								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	5			534	551		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000839			OCT 2024	2024	In the past 20 years, surfing has become a popular, non-age-dependent sport that can be performed at most ocean beaches. As it gains exposure, surfers have recognized the importance of physical preparation to enhance their performance and reduce injury risk. This realization has led to an increase in the study and practice of biomechanical and environmental analysis as well as training methodologies for the competitive surfer. As a result, coaches and athletes are including land-based training protocols to maximize the competitive surfer's performance and are designing them based on their surfing schedules. Not only is this training important for competitive surfers, but also for surfers who engage in this sport recreationally. Therefore, the aim was to provide a needs analysis of surfing components such as environmental factors, biomechanical and physiological demands, and current training methods for performance enhancement.		[Monaco, Jerry-Thomas] Seton Hall Univ, Sch Hlth & Med Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Nutley, NJ USA; [Boergers, Richard] Seton Hall Univ, Sch Hlth & Med Sci, Dept Athlet Training, Nutley, NJ 07110 USA; [Cappaert, Thomas] Rocky Mt Univ Hlth Profess, Provo, UT USA; [Miller, Michael] Rocky Mt Univ Hlth Profess, Provo, UT USA; [Miller, Michael] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Kalamazoo, MI USA; [Boergers, Richard] Seton Hall Univ, Sch Hlth & Med Sci, Dept Athlet Training, Nutley, NJ 07110 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001328283200006	99	Article; Article		
J	Cary, Michael; Stephens, Heather M.								How COVID-19 Affected Participation in Ultramarathons: Gender, Risk Aversion, and Travel								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	1			55	77		10.1177/15270025241279231			JAN 2025	2025	In this article, we study runners' decisions to compete in an ultramarathon during the COVID-19 era. To do this, we use a novel data set containing information on ultramarathon races and their participants and a logit model to determine if a runner who competed in an event in the year before the pandemic began chose to compete in that same (or sufficiently similar) event during the first year of the pandemic. By doing this we are able to estimate the impact of local and race destination COVID-19 cases on the decision to compete. We find that local COVID-19 cases, but not destination COVID-19 cases, affect the decision to compete. We also find that events were more likely to be cancelled when COVID-19 cases rose in the state in which the race is located. It also appears that women were disproportionately affected by the pandemic regarding changes in travel behavior.		[Cary, Michael] Virginia Tech, Dept Agr & Appl Econ, 250 Drillfield Dr, Blacksburg, VA 24060 USA; [Stephens, Heather M.] West Virginia Univ, Reg Res Inst & Resource Econ & Management, Morgantown, WV USA; [Cary, Michael] Virginia Tech, Dept Agr & Appl Econ, 250 Drillfield Dr, Blacksburg, VA 24060 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001321241100001	59	Article; Article		
J	Harris, Jill S.; Dulin, Johnathan								Pay for Performance in the Pool: Sink or Swim?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	8			989	1002		10.1177/15270025241279591			DEC 2024	2024	In the shadow of Title IX's 50th anniversary in 2022, it is fitting to investigate whether female elite swimmers are rewarded the same way male swimmers are. This article thus contributes to the growing literature on gender differences in performance and pay in sport. Our article frames this question in a unique way, as we compare the extent of economic exploitation of women and men in elite swimming. Are female swimmers "underpaid" relative to their marginal revenue products at the same level as their male counterparts?		[Harris, Jill S.; Dulin, Johnathan] US Air Force Acad, USAF Acad, CO 80840 USA; [Harris, Jill S.] US Air Force Acad, USAF Acad, CO 80840 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001321615000001	16	Article; Article		
J	Byon, Kevin K.; Yoon, Juha; Gang, Alex; Park, Juho; Pedersen, Paul M.								Pre-post examination of residents' destination image toward mega event hosting country with strained bilateral relations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	1			76	91		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2024-0154			FEB 19 2025	2025	PurposeThe current study applied the concept of country image to a context of bilateral relations for two post-Soviet states to examine the impact of a mega sport event on the image of the host country Russia.Design/methodology/approachSurveys were collected before and after the World Cup to assess any changes among Georgians with regard to their views on Russia and intentions to visit.FindingsThe results showed a significant change in Russia's pre-perceived cognitive image related to reputation, respect and development, as well as the emotional aspect and overall country image after the mega sport event. Interestingly, the affective image of Russia carried more weight in shaping the overall country image compared to the cognitive aspects, suggesting the increasing importance of emotional perceptions over beliefs. However, despite these changes, the study found that mega sport events did not significantly moderate the association between country image and behavior intentions in the context of Russo-Georgian hostile bilateral relations.Originality/valueThis study is one of the first examinations of the impact of hosting mega sport events in countries with hostile bilateral ties. The findings support that mega sport events can be an effective mechanism to gain soft power in that such events can arouse changes in people's emotions and feelings towards the host country, even for those living in a country with a hostile relationship with the host country. The scope of applicability of these findings can be extended to other contexts, including future hosts of mega sport events in their geo-political contexts.		[Byon, Kevin K.; Yoon, Juha; Pedersen, Paul M.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Gang, Alex] Washington State Univ, Pullman, WA USA; [Park, Juho] Korea Inst Sport Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Byon, Kevin K.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001319637600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Barramuno-Medina, Mauricio; Aravena-Sagardia, Pablo; Valdes-Badilla, Pablo; Galvez-Garcia, German; Jimenez-Torres, Sergio; Pasten-Hidalgo, Wilson								Acute effects of the short-foot exercise in runners with medial tibial stress syndrome: A quasi-experimental study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				67	74		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.09.001			NOV 2024	2024	Objectives: Analyze whether there are immediate changes in peak soleus activation and peak hindfoot eversion after short-foot exercise (SFE) in runners with medial tibial stress syndrome (MTSS). Secondarily, establish differences in peak soleus activation and peak hindfoot eversion between asymptomatic individuals and those presenting MTSS. Design: Quasi-experimental study. Setting: University Laboratory. Participants: Thirty-two runners participated: 16 with MTSS and 16 in the no-pain group (NPG). Main outcome measures: Soleus activation was measured using electromyography, and hindfoot eversion via 3D kinematic analysis. Participants performed SFE, and running data were collected at 9,12 and 15 km/h pre- and post-intervention. Results: SFE reduced peak soleus activation at 9 (p = 0.017) and 15 km/h (p = 0.019) for the MTSS group and at 15 km/h (p < 0.001) for the NPG, suggesting improved neuromuscular efficiency and potentially reduced tibial stress. SFE did not significantly affect peak hindfoot eversion. Significant correlations were found between ankle dorsiflexion range of motion and muscle activation (r = 0.585 to 0.849, p < 0.05). These findings suggest SFE could improve neuromuscular efficiency and reduce tibial stress, and highlights ankle flexibility's role in muscle activation. Conclusions: SFE significantly reduces soleus activation, potentially improving neuromuscular efficiency and decreasing tibial stress.		[Aravena-Sagardia, Pablo] Univ Autonoma Chile, Fac Hlth Sci, Kinesiol Program, Temuco, Chile; [Valdes-Badilla, Pablo] Univ Autonoma Chile, Fac Educ, Phys Educ Pedag, Temuco, Chile; [Valdes-Badilla, Pablo] Univ Catolica Maule, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Phys Act Sci, Talca, Chile; [Galvez-Garcia, German] Univ Vina Mar, Sch Educ, Sports Coach Career, Vina Del Mar, Chile; [Galvez-Garcia, German] Univ Salamanca, Dept Expt Psychol Psychobiol & Behav Sci Methodol, Salamanca, Spain; [Jimenez-Torres, Sergio; Pasten-Hidalgo, Wilson] Univ La Frontera, Dept Psychol, Temuco, Chile; [Pasten-Hidalgo, Wilson] Univ Atacama, Dept Kinesiol, Fac Hlth Sci, Copiapo, Chile; [Pasten-Hidalgo, Wilson] Av Copayapu 2862, Copiapo 1530000, Chile								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001324343600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Gao, Rujiu; Koh, Denise; Wang, Ling								Relationship between body involvement and post-trip behavioral intention in sports tourism: an embodied cognition perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	1			56	75		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2024-0060			FEB 19 2025	2025	PurposeBased on the theory of embodied cognition, this study uses the Mehrabian-Rusell model to explore the influence of tourists' body involvement during sports vacations on their post-trip behavioral intention, as well as the regulatory role of tourism involvement in this process.Design/methodology/approachStructural equation modeling (SEM) was used to test the hypotheses, mediating effects and moderating effects. The data were collected through an online survey of 631 visitors to sports tourism destinations in China.FindingsProprioception and kinesthesia in sports tourism activities can affect post-trip behavioral intention through body arousal and tourism satisfaction. Tourism involvement positively regulates the influence of body embeddedness and body arousal on tourism satisfaction. Furthermore, a "threshold effect" exists in the emotional effect of tourists' body involvement.Practical implicationsTo develop sports tourism, it is important to take the following steps: create multi-sensory stimulation to improve the physical participation of tourists in sports tourism activities, design sports resorts that cater to people of different age groups, evaluate tourists' satisfaction and use their feedback to make continuous improvements, improve the basic convenience services offered at sports resorts, use social media to display the unique physical environment and others characteristics of sports destinations to expand popularity.Originality/valueThis study constructs a conceptual model of the influence mechanism of tourists' body involvement on post-trip behavioral intention to present valuable insights that could help promote the sustainable development of sports tourism.		[Gao, Rujiu] Henan Kaifeng Coll Sci Technol & Commun, Kaifeng, Peoples R China; [Gao, Rujiu; Koh, Denise] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Bangi, Malaysia; [Wang, Ling] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Educ, Bandar Baru Bangi, Malaysia; [Koh, Denise] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Bangi, Malaysia								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001317350200001	46	Article; Article		
J	Palsson, Anders; Nae, Jenny Almqvist								The association between hip adductor and extensor strength, and hip-related patient-reported outcomes in patients with longstanding hip and groin pain: An exploratory cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				61	66		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.09.002			NOV 2024	2024	Objective: The objective of this study was to assess the association between hip muscle strength and hip-related patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) in patients with longstanding hip and groin pain (LHGP). Design: Cross-sectional design. Setting: Orthopedic care. Participants: Eighty-one patients with LHGP were consecutively recruited. Main outcome measures: Hip muscle strength was measured in adduction and extension. Hip-related PROMs was measured with the Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS) which includes six subscales (Symptoms, Pain, Activity in Daily Living (ADL), Physical Function in Sports and Recreation (Sport/Rec), Participation in Physical Activities (PA), and Quality of Life (QoL). Linear regression examined the association between hip muscle strength and each HAGOS subscale. Results: Greater isometric hip muscle strength in adduction was associated with better HAGOS score for Pain and ADL (p <= 0.037), but not for Symptoms, Sport/Rec, PA, or QoL (p >= 0.154). Greater isometric hip muscle strength in extension was associated with better HAGOS score for Symptoms, Pain, and ADL (p <= 0.034), but not for Sport/Rec, PA, or QoL (p >= 0.084). Conclusions: In patients with LHGP, greater isometric hip muscle strength seems to be associated with less symptoms and pain, and better function in ADL. No association was found for Sport/Rec, PA, or QoL.		[Palsson, Anders; Nae, Jenny Almqvist] Lund Univ, Fac Med, Dept Hlth Sci, POB 177, S-22100 Lund, Sweden; [Palsson, Anders] Lund Univ, Fac Med, Dept Hlth Sci, POB 177, S-22100 Lund, Sweden								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001321749800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Chung, Henry C.; Keiller, Don R.; Waterworth, Sally P.; McManus, Chris J.; Roberts, Justin D.; Gordon, Dan A.								Genotypic Variations Associated with Changes in Body Mass in Response to Endurance Training								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			298	308		10.1080/02701367.2024.2404981			APR 3 2025	2025	This study investigates the extent to which different genotypes can explain changes in body mass following an 8-week running program, in a UK population. Participants were randomly assigned to either a training (n = 17) or control group (n = 21). Participants' diets were not altered, only the exercise regime was manipulated to isolate effects. The exercise group completed a periodized running program consisting of 20-30 min, over an agreed route, three times per-week, whilst the control groups refrained from daily exercise. Participants were screened at the end of the study for 1,000 gene variants using a DNA test kit. Results demonstrated a significant reduction in body mass, within the exercise, compared to the control group (p = .002). This reduction in body mass varied significantly (p = .024) between individuals within the exercise group. Moreover, genetic analysis identified 17 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with this variation (r(2) = .74; p < .001). These findings indicate that individuals with specific alleles are better predisposed to weight-management, compared to their counterparts, following an exercise program. This study helps to bridge the gap between population health and exercise science and can inform research in the application of genetics to help develop individually tailored health interventions.		[Chung, Henry C.; Waterworth, Sally P.; McManus, Chris J.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Univ Essex Colchester Campus,Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, England; [Keiller, Don R.; Roberts, Justin D.; Gordon, Dan A.] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge, England; [Chung, Henry C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Univ Essex Colchester Campus,Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001315532300001	69	Article; Article		
J	Hamdan, Remy; Guyotat, Nicolas; Maheo, Pierre; Bailleux, Jerome; Asdrubal, Jacques; Gallina, Xavier								Contribution of medical resonance imaging in the return to physical activity after exertional rhabdomyolysis a case report								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			97	101		10.1080/00913847.2024.2403322			JAN 2 2025	2025	IntroductionExertional rhabdomyolysis (ER) is the breakdown of muscle cells that occurs after intensive physical activity. Although a cautious and gradual return to physical activity (RTPA) is recommended after an episode of ER, physical sequelae are reported long afterwards.Case reportWe present the case of a 31-year-old untrained amateur runner with no prior medical history who developed heat stroke, ER, and acute kidney failure on the occasion of a half-marathon. Three months later, whereas the patient was symptom-free and CK levels were normal, an MRI revealed typical signs of rhabdomyolysis, which normalized thereafter.DiscussionGiven that clinical and biological data inform RTPA decisions, the delay between clinical biological and MRI normalization may cause an RTPA to be initiated prior to full muscle recovery, which could account for the symptoms' prolonged persistence. In sportspeople who have recovered and their CK blood levels are returned to normal, MRI data could defer the RTPA if MRI abnormalities persist or, conversely, give it the green light. In the event of exertional rhabdomyolysis following a race, the presence of muscular lesions on MRI, even if the patient feels healed and creatine kinase levels have returned to normal, should postpone the return to physical activity.		[Hamdan, Remy] Macon Hosp Ctr, Dept Vasc Surg, Macon, France; [Guyotat, Nicolas] Macon Hosp Ctr, Dept Internal Med, Macon, France; [Maheo, Pierre] Macon Hosp Ctr, Dept Cardiol, Macon, France; [Bailleux, Jerome; Gallina, Xavier] Macon Hosp Ctr, Dept Med Imagery, Macon, France; [Bailleux, Jerome] IMADIS, Lyon, France; [Asdrubal, Jacques] Macon Hosp Ctr, Dept Emergency Med, Macon, France; [Hamdan, Remy] Ctr Hosp Macon, Explorat Fonct Med Vasc, 350 Blvd Louis Escande, F-71000 Macon, France								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001315939300001	22	Article; Article		
J	Grinberg, Adam; Strong, Andrew; Hager, Charlotte K.								Longitudinal assessment of knee joint proprioception using weight-bearing and non-weight-bearing tests throughout rehabilitation after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				53	60		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.08.009			NOV 2024	2024	Objective: Evaluate active knee joint position sense (JPS) throughout rehabilitation after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Longitudinal. Setting: Motion laboratory. Participants: Twenty-two individuals post-ACLR and 22 activity-matched non-injured controls performed weight-bearing and non-weight-bearing knee JPS tests. The ACLR participants performed at three functional timepoints: T1, able to perform single-leg sit-to-stand; T2, able to hop maximally; T3, cleared for return to sports. Controls performed on one occasion. Main outcome measures: Constant, absolute, variable errors (CE, AE, VE) and interlimb symmetry estimates (100% signifying perfect symmetry), for 40 degrees and 65 degrees knee flexion target angles. Results: For the weight-bearing 40 degrees condition, CE and AE of the ACLR knee significantly increased from T1 to T2 (P = 0.010) and T1 to T3 (P = 0.002). Consequently, interlimb asymmetry for AE significantly increased from T1 (AE(sym%) = 101.2% +/- 55.4%) to T3 (AE(sym%) = 139.7% +/- 54.8%). Compared to controls, AE for the ACLR knee was significantly smaller at T1 (P = 0.016). No other significant differences were observed. Conclusions: Smaller JPS errors at early rehabilitation while weight-bearing may have been due to heightened quadriceps activation and increased gamma motor neuron sensitivity, compensating for deficient ACL mechanoreceptors. In contrast, non-weight-bearing testing did not reveal changes over time. Clinicians are advised to consider these distinctions when assessing proprioception at different rehabilitation stages.		[Grinberg, Adam; Strong, Andrew; Hager, Charlotte K.] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Umea, Sweden; [Grinberg, Adam] Umea Univ, Biol Huset,Linnaeus Vag 9, S-90736 Umea, Sweden								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001316839300001	49	Article; Article		
J	Solomons, Jocelyn; Bekker, Sheree; Groom, Ryan; Kraak, Wilbur								Insights into coaching effectiveness: Perspectives from coaches and players in South African Women's Rugby								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			8	21		10.1177/17479541241283625			FEB 1 2025	2025	Sports coaching involves navigating ambiguity and uncertainty in stakeholders' perspectives and managing a dynamic micro-political environment. This study explores the relationship between coaching efficacy and effectiveness in South African Women's Rugby. It examines how a coach's belief in their ability to influence athlete learning and performance (coaching efficacy) correlates with the actual impact on athletes (coaching effectiveness). By aligning coaches' perceived competence with tangible athlete outcomes, the study provides insights into factors influencing coaching practices and athlete development. The study involved 28 women players (mean age: 24.8 +/- 4.0 years) and 8 coaches (mean age: 41 +/- 3.8 years) who participated in semi-structured online interviews. The interview script, derived from the Coaching Effectiveness Survey (CES) tool, was analysed using Braun and Clarke's 6-step process of thematic content analysis. Under the four efficacy dimensions, sub-themes emerged as follow: 1) motivation (climate created by the coach and a motivational climate experienced by the players), 2) technique (coaching physical, technical, and tactical aspects of rugby), 3) game strategy (guiding players to successful outcomes), and 4) character-building efficacy (cultivating a positive environment for sportswomanship and holistic development). The findings incorporate feedback from players and coaches, highlighting firsthand experiences of coaching effectiveness. This approach enables experts to identify effective coaching strategies and those needing refinement within Women's Rugby. The study's findings promise to inform future coach development frameworks and foster a comprehensive understanding of coaching effectiveness in the dynamic landscape of Women's Rugby worldwide.		[Solomons, Jocelyn] Univ Stellenbosch, Div Sport Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Bekker, Sheree] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Groom, Ryan] Univ Derby, Coll Sci & Engn, Derby, England; [Kraak, Wilbur] Univ Western Cape, Dept Sport Recreat & Exercise Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Kraak, Wilbur] Univ Free State, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Bloemfontein, South Africa; [Solomons, Jocelyn] Univ Stellenbosch, Div Sport Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001313198900001	62	Article; Article		
J	Giddings, Lisa A.								Serena, Simone, and Semenya: After 50 Years, the Past, Present, and Future of Title IX								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	8			904	918		10.1177/15270025241279603			DEC 2024	2024	This article reviews the origins and amendments to Title IX, its effects on girls and women in sports and beyond, as well as men and male sports in the United States. It goes on to explore current issues facing the law including intersex, nonbinary, and transgender athletes as well as recent regulatory attempts to balance fairness and inclusiveness in the legislation such as its effect on women of color, and equal pay in professional sports.		[Giddings, Lisa A.] Univ Wisconsin La Crosse, Dept Econ, La Crosse, WI USA; [Giddings, Lisa A.] Univ Wisconsin La Crosse, Econ, 1725 State St La Crosse, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001311889400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Cho, Heetae; Chiu, Weisheng; Kang, Hyoung-Kil; Lee, Hyun-Woo								Gender differences in the effects of nostalgia on conspicuous consumption and impulsive buying								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	1			1	21		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2024-0081			FEB 19 2025	2025	PurposeThe current study investigated the relationship between nostalgia, conspicuous consumption, and impulse buying and compared gender differences in the effects of nostalgia on conspicuous consumption and impulse buying.Design/methodology/approachA total of 307 college students in western Singapore were recruited. Confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modeling were conducted to assess the psychometric properties of the scales and estimate model path coefficients. A multi-group analysis was conducted to test if the path coefficients in the research model varied across genders.FindingsThis study found that nostalgia had a positive influence on consumers' conspicuous consumption, which in turn had a positive impact on their impulse buying of sport products. The results of the multi-group analysis also revealed significant differences across gender groups in that the impacts of nostalgia on conspicuous consumption and impulse buying were stronger for male consumers.Originality/valueThis study forges new ground by investigating the intricate dynamics among nostalgia, conspicuous consumption, and impulse buying in the context of sport. By delving into the relationships between them and exploring gender disparities in their effects, this study enhances our understanding of the pivotal role nostalgia plays in shaping consumer behavior in sport. In addition, the identification of gender-specific patterns underscores the significance of tailored marketing approaches for effectively engaging both male and female consumers. Overall, this study presents fresh perspectives that can inform the development of targeted marketing strategies for sport marketers and retailers aiming to optimize their offerings and promotional endeavors.		[Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Sch Business & Adm, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Kang, Hyoung-Kil] Kyungnam Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Chang Won, South Korea; [Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, College Stn, TX 77845 USA; [Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, College Stn, TX 77845 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001308786300001	117	Article; Article		
J	Gatti, Alessandro; Azzali, Gianluca; Tornaghi, Michele; Lovecchio, Nicola; Giuriato, Matteo								"Who's Got Talent?" Change of Direction, Anthropometric Characteristics and Maturity Offset Differences Between Elite and Sub-Elite Young Soccer Player								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			273	278		10.1080/02701367.2024.2401856			APR 3 2025	2025	Agility, anthropometrics and maturity-offset have been considered fundamental for talent identification in soccer. The aim of this study is to compare 83 young soccer players (U12) from elite (28) and sub-elite (55) teams, to investigate the influences of anthropometric characteristics and maturation on Change-of-Direction (CoD) with the ball (dribbling) and without the ball. ANCOVA was run to investigate potential differences in Agility T-Test and Shuttle Dribble Test between categories while simultaneously controlling for the effects of anthropometric variables such as Peak Height Velocity (PHV), Weight, and Height. Agility T-Test performance does not significantly differ between the two categories (F-value = 0.537, p > .05). However, the Weight significantly influences the results (F-value = 18.425, p < .001, Eta-Squared = 0.172) and also PHV has a significant impact on them (F-value = 10.099, p < .01, Eta-Squared = 0.094). The Shuttle Dribble Test performance significantly varies between two groups (F-value = 5.207, p < .05, Eta-Squared = 0.057). Only Weight significantly influences this test (F-value = 4.324, p < .05, Eta-Squared = 0.048). Our findings indicate that during the U-12 age period, technical skills emerge as a crucial discriminant factor between elite and sub-elite young soccer players, contrarily to the athletic performance without the ball. In addition, the maturity stage specifically influences the Agility T-Test and Weight is significantly related to lower time to complete both in Agility T-Test and SDT.		[Gatti, Alessandro; Azzali, Gianluca; Tornaghi, Michele; Giuriato, Matteo] Univ Pavia, Pavia, Italy; [Lovecchio, Nicola] Univ Bergamo, Dept Human & Social Sci, Ple Sant Agostino 2, I-24121 Bergamo, Italy; [Lovecchio, Nicola] Univ Bergamo, Dept Human & Social Sci, Ple Sant Agostino 2, I-24121 Bergamo, Italy								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001310775000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Yingjie; Fan, Rong								Effects of coaches' authentic leadership on athletes' training competition satisfaction: The mediating roles of psychological ownership and athlete engagement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			79	91		10.1177/17479541241267853			FEB 1 2025	2025	Coaching leadership greatly impacts athletes' mental health and wellbeing. Although research shows a positive link between authentic leadership and athlete satisfaction, studies on specific subdimensions are limited. This study examines the influence of authentic leadership on athlete engagement and performance, utilizing a conditional process model to explore the mediating effects of psychological ownership and athlete engagement. A survey of 381 athletes (274 male, 107 female; M-age=19.98; SD=2.48) from team and individual sports found that perceived authentic leadership positively correlates with training competition satisfaction, psychological ownership, and athlete engagement. Structural equation modeling revealed that psychological ownership and athlete engagement significantly mediate this relationship. Thus, authentic leadership directly and indirectly enhances athletes' satisfaction.		[Zhang, Yingjie; Fan, Rong] China Univ Geosci, Sch Phys Educ, Lumo Rd 388, Wuhan 430074, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Yingjie] China Univ Polit Sci & Law, Dept Phys Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Fan, Rong] China Univ Geosci, Sch Phys Educ, Lumo Rd 388, Wuhan 430074, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001308883900001	51	Article; Article		
J	Standaert, Willem; Mazurova, Elena								Digitalization in action sports: blessing or curse?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	1			22	36		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2024-0078			FEB 19 2025	2025	PurposeThis study aims to identify how the use of digital technology for performance and commercial aspects of action sports can both create and destruct value.Design/methodology/approachExploratory research based on 30 interviews with coaches, athletes, judges, federations, fans and sponsoring organizations from Europe, across five action sport disciplines that are included in the Olympic program.FindingsValue creation of digital technology use related to the performance aspect of action sports fall into two categories: performance enhancement and performance evaluation. Value creation related to the commercialization aspect of action sports relate to specific technologies, in particular a video streaming and a centralized data and engagement platform, as well as to possibilities for betting and making sponsoring more measurable. Notably, such value creation opportunities are also accompanied by possible value destruction, as they interfere with the ethos of action sports (i.e. the unique nature and special culture).Originality/valueDrawing from service-dominant logic and adopting the value creation/destruction lens, this paper is the first to study how digitalization in the areas of performance and commercialization may further intensify tensions related to the ethos of action sports. Our approach is inclusive in terms of the types of digital technologies, action sport disciplines and stakeholders considered.		[Standaert, Willem; Mazurova, Elena] Univ Liege, HEC Liege Management Sch, Liege, Belgium; [Standaert, Willem] Univ Ghent, Fac Econ & Business Adm, Ghent, Belgium; [Standaert, Willem] Univ Liege, HEC Liege Management Sch, Liege, Belgium; [Standaert, Willem] Univ Ghent, Fac Econ & Business Adm, Ghent, Belgium								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001307732800001	33	Article; Article		
J	Barbosa, Juliana Peroni Abrahao; de Vargas, Wandriane; Del Rosso, Sebastian; Ravagnani, Christiane Coelho; Boullosa, Daniel A.; Muller, Paulo de Tarso								Increased Ventilatory Efficiency in Supramaximal Compared to Graded Exercise in Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			265	272		10.1080/02701367.2024.2398577			APR 3 2025	2025	Background: Supramaximal constant work rate tests (CWR) elicit intense hyperventilation, thus potentially up-shifting ventilation ((V) over dot)(E))-to-carbon dioxide (CO2) responses when compared to graded exercise tests (GXT) in athletes. We predicted higher ventilatory efficiency on supramaximal CWR using a new method, challenging the classic orthodox interpretation of an increased (V) over dot)(E)-(V) over dot)CO2 as ventilatory inefficiency. This misinterpretation could make difficult to differentiate between physiological hyperventilation from heart disease conditions in athletes. Methods: On different days, a GXT and a CWR at 110% of the maximal velocity achieved in the GXT were performed. Twenty-seven athletes completed the two tests and were compared for usual (linear regression) and log-transformed new variables for ventilatory efficiency through paired t-Student statistics. Results: The (V) over dot)(E)-(V) over dot)CO2 slope (31.4 +/- 4.9 vs. 26.2 +/- 3.4, p < .001), (V) over dot)(E)-(V) over dot)CO2 intercept (7.2 +/- 7.5 vs. 2.8 +/- 4.2, p < .007), (V) over dot)(E)/(V) over dot)CO2 nadir (33.0 +/- 3.6 vs. 25.4 +/- 2.2, p < .001), (V) over dot)CO2-log(V) over dot)(E) slope (10.8 +/- 2.9 vs. 6.9 +/- 2.2 L(*)logL(-1), p < .001), and eta(V) over dot)(E) (36.0 +/- 12 vs. 22.8 +/- 8.1%, p < .001) values were all significantly higher in the CWR compared to the GXT. We registered a bi-modal nadir response for (V) over dot)(/)(V) over dot)CO2 on CWR for 22 out of 27 subjects for the first time. A weak association was observed between (V) over dot)/(V) over dot)CO2 nadir (coefficient of determination similar to 27%) and time to exhaustion. Conclusions: The new method allows us to improve the quantification and interpretation of ventilatory efficiency in athletes, avoiding misinterpretation due to the up-shifting elicited by the usual (V) over dot)(E)-(V) over dot)CO2 slope and (V) over dot)(E)/(V) over dot)CO2 nadir indices, which may be confounded with ventilatory inefficiency. This study suggests that ventilatory changes underpin better ventilatory efficiency during CWR.		[Barbosa, Juliana Peroni Abrahao; de Vargas, Wandriane; Muller, Paulo de Tarso] Fed Univ Mato Grosso Sul UFMS, Maria Aparecida Pedrossian Hosp HUMAP, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil; [Del Rosso, Sebastian] Natl Univ Cordoba, Cordoba, Argentina; [Ravagnani, Christiane Coelho; Boullosa, Daniel A.] Fed Univ Mato Grosso Sul UFMS, Pioneiros, Brazil; [Boullosa, Daniel A.] Univ Leon, Leon, Spain; [Boullosa, Daniel A.] James Cook Univ, Townsville, Australia; [Muller, Paulo de Tarso] Fed Univ Mato Grosso Sul UFMS, Maria Aparecida Pedrossian Hosp HUMAP, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001309214600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Small, Gabriella H.; Neptune, Richard R.								The relationship between back handspring step out performance and take-off technique in female gymnasts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3654	3666		10.1080/14763141.2024.2392129			DEC 1 2024	2024	Although the back handspring step out (BHS) is a foundational skill in balance beam routines, it can be performed using different take-off techniques. Back injuries are highly prevalent in the BHS due to the combination of high spine extension and joint loading. However, it is unclear which technique minimises injury risk or leads to better BHS performance. The purpose of the study was to identify techniques used for the BHS take-off and analyse the resulting BHS performance. Gymnasts were found to use either: Simultaneous Flexion-trunk and knees flex at the same time; Sequential Flexion-trunk reaches its maximum flexion followed by knee flexion; or Double-Bounce-knees and trunk both flex and then the knees extend and flex again. To assess performance, point deductions were calculated, and dynamic balance, ground reaction forces (GRFs) and relevant joint angles were analysed. The techniques had no differences in point deductions or dynamic balance, but there were differences in GRFs, spine extension and knee flexion. The Sequential Flexion technique had the lowest spine extension, which potentially reduces back injuries and the lowest knee flexion, which is a BHS requirement. These results support the use of Sequential Flexion technique when performing the BHS.		[Small, Gabriella H.; Neptune, Richard R.] Univ Texas Austin, Walker Dept Mech Engn, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Neptune, Richard R.] Univ Texas Austin, Walker Dept Mech Engn, Austin, TX 78712 USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001310456400001	24	Article; Article		
J	Sacramento, Henrique Silva; da Silva, Lucas Chalegre; Papoti, Marcelo; Rossi, Fabricio Eduardo; Gomes, Willemax dos Santos; Costa, Andre dos Santos; Campos, Eduardo Zapaterra								Sodium Nitrate Improves Oxidative Energy Contribution and Reduces Phosphocreatine Contribution During High-Intensity Intermittent Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			259	264		10.1080/02701367.2024.2396146			APR 3 2025	2025	The present study aimed to verify the effect of acute nitrate supplementation on oxidative, phosphocreatine, and glycolytic energy contribution (C-OXI, C-PCr, and C-LAC(,) respectively) during a high-intensity intermittent exercise (HIIE). Fifteen physically active subjects were submitted to incremental running test on a treadmill and two random HIIE (10 x 1 min at maximal aerobic speed with 1 min of passive recovery) in the following conditions: sodium nitrate (SN) or Placebo (PL). Repeated measure ANOVA was used to compare C-OXI, and C-PCr within the 10 efforts. Student t test was used to compare total C-OXI, C-PCr, C-LAC, as well oxidative and non-oxidative contribution. Considering the 10 efforts, C-OXI presented the main effect for condition (F = 16.7; p = .001; SN: 1.9 +/- 0.1 L; PL: 1.6 +/- 0.1 L), and no interaction effect (F = 0.9; p = .415), while C-PCr presented effect for condition (F = 13.4; p = .003; SN: 1.2 +/- 0.1; PL: 1.4 +/- 0.8 L), and no interaction (F = 1.2; p = .317). Total oxidative contribution were higher (p < .001) after SN (19.1 +/- 3.4 L) than Placebo (16.7 +/- 3.1 L), while total C-PCr were lower (p = .002) after SN (12.4 +/- 2.5 L) than PL (14.1 +/- 2.6 L). Total energy contribution were not different between trials. Acute dose of SN supplementation improved oxidative contribution during HIIE, and reduced C-PCr. Higher C-OXI is likely related to increased oxygen kinetics, while the lower C-PCr might be related to the improved energetic efficiency.		[Sacramento, Henrique Silva; da Silva, Lucas Chalegre; Gomes, Willemax dos Santos; Costa, Andre dos Santos; Campos, Eduardo Zapaterra] Univ Fed Pernambuco, 1235 Prof Moraes Rego,Ave Cidade Univ, BR-50670901 Recife, PE, Brazil; [Papoti, Marcelo] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Rossi, Fabricio Eduardo] Paulista State Univ Julio De Mesquita Filho, Jaboticabal, Brazil; [Campos, Eduardo Zapaterra] Univ Fed Pernambuco, 1235 Prof Moraes Rego,Ave Cidade Univ, BR-50670901 Recife, PE, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001309243400001	33	Article; Article		
J	Zwolski, Christin M.; Paterno, Mark, V; Rethorn, Timothy J.; Thomas, Staci M.; Quatman-Yates, Catherine C.; Schmitt, Laura C.								Physical, psychological, and environmental shifts experienced during the young athlete journey after ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				44	52		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.08.005			NOV 2024	2024	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to explore self-perceived changes in athlete journey trajectory, or shifts, after ACLR that facilitate or hinder physical activity participation among youth. Methods: Ten participants were included in this study at a median of 5.9 years after adolescent ACLR. Using an interpretive phenomenological methodology, semi-structured interviews with each participant were recorded and transcribed verbatim. Data collection focused on participants' lived experiences of reintegration to physical activity after ACLR. Thematic analyses were guided by the procedures of the constant comparative method. Results: Nineteen distinct shifts were identified from participants' perspectives, categorized into the main classification scheme of 1) environmental shifts (extrinsic demands, built environment, social network), 2) psychological shifts (expectations, motivation, meaning of sports, accountability, priorities, athlete identity, mental health, confidence, knowledge, character, participation mentality), and 3) physical shifts (movement competence, sport participation, physical activity, normalization, knee health). Factors perceived to induce shifts were categorized as natural, injury-driven, or life transition-driven. Conclusion: In the years following adolescent ACLR, young athletes experience physical, psychological, and environment shifts that impact physical activity participation. These findings provide important insight for future work that aims to optimize physical activity outcomes after an injury-related disruption in the athlete journey.		[Zwolski, Christin M.; Paterno, Mark, V] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp, Div Occupat Therapy Phys Therapy, Med Ctr, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Zwolski, Christin M.; Paterno, Mark, V; Thomas, Staci M.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Med Ctr, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Zwolski, Christin M.; Paterno, Mark, V] Univ Cincinnati, Dept Pediat, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Rethorn, Timothy J.; Quatman-Yates, Catherine C.; Schmitt, Laura C.] Ohio State Univ, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Columbus, OH USA; [Rethorn, Timothy J.; Quatman-Yates, Catherine C.; Schmitt, Laura C.] Ohio State Univ, Sports Med Res Inst, Columbus, OH USA; [Zwolski, Christin M.] 3333 Burnet Ave, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001309862600001	37	Article; Article		
J	Frick, Bernd								Gender Differences in the Concentration of Individual Performance: Evidence From Track and Field Athletics								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	1			35	54		10.1177/15270025241279191			JAN 2025	2025	Until recently, the under-representation of women in top management and government positions has been attributed to discriminatory hiring and promotion policies. A rather new perhaps competing explanation is that women tend to avoid competitive settings due to mental dispositions and personality traits that are different from those of men. In this article, the performance of female and male elite athletes in one of the traditional Olympic sports, track and field athletics, is analyzed over an extended period (2001-2021). Since elite athletes have self-selected into a highly competitive environment, significant differences between the genders in terms of their observable collective behavior, that is the homogeneity of the individual performances, are highly unlikely. The empirical analyses show that the gender gap in competitive intensity, that is the dispersion in elite performances, is already quite small and will have completely disappeared in a few years.		[Frick, Bernd] Paderborn Univ, Management Dept, Org Media & Sports Econ, Paderborn, Germany; [Frick, Bernd] Paderborn Univ, Fac Business Adm & Econ, Management Dept, Warburger Str 100, D-33098 Paderborn, Germany								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001306467600001	33	Article; Article		
J	Rhim, Hye Chang; Reichenbach, Rachel; Afifi, Toqa; Ruiz, Joseph; Noble-Taylor, Kayle; Barrack, Michelle T.; Rauh, Mitchell J.; Tenforde, Adam S.								Epidemiology of injuries in united states high school track and field jumping events from 2008-2019								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			47	54		10.1080/00913847.2024.2394850			JAN 2 2025	2025	ObjectivesReports of injury characteristics of high school track and field athletes participating in jumping events in the United States are limited. In this descriptive epidemiological study, we report injury rates and patterns in these athletes.MethodsInjuries and athletic exposures (AE) from the National High School Sports Related Injury Surveillance System, and High School Reporting Information Online (RIO) from 2008-2019 were analyzed. Jumping events included high jump, long jump, triple jump, and pole vault. Injury rate ratios (IRR) and injury proportion ratios (IPR) were examined by sex.ResultsA total of 727 injuries related to jumping events during 5,486,279 AEs occurred with the highest frequency at the thigh (20.3%) followed by the ankle (18.2%), knee (16.1%), and lower leg (11.0%). The most common types of injuries were muscle strain (29.0%) and ligament sprain (21.2%). Most athletes returned to sport within 1 week (43.1%, n = 312) or 3 weeks (34.7%, n = 243). Few jumping-related injuries resulted in surgery (4.9%, n = 35) or medical disqualification (4.4%, n = 31). The jumping-related injury rate was 1.33 injuries/10,000 AEs from 2008 to 2019. The rate of jumping-related injuries was higher in competition than in practice (IRR = 2.63, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.25-3.06). Injury rates were significantly higher in practice for female athletes than for males (IRR = 1.51, 95% CI: 1.23-1.86). Compared to male athletes, female athletes sustained a higher proportion of ankle injuries (IPR = 1.63, 95% CI: 1.15-2.32) and ligament sprains (IPR = 1.55, 95% CI: 1.16-2.09).ConclusionsThis study describes injury characteristics of high school track and field jumping athletes from 2008 to 2019. We found an overall injury rate of 1.33 injuries per 10,000 AEs. Higher overall rates of jumping-related injuries occurred during competitions than in practice, and female athletes displayed a significantly higher rate of injuries during practices compared to male athletes.		[Rhim, Hye Chang; Afifi, Toqa; Ruiz, Joseph; Noble-Taylor, Kayle; Tenforde, Adam S.] Harvard Med Sch, Spaulding Rehabil Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, 300 1st Ave, Charlestown, MA 02129 USA; [Rhim, Hye Chang] Harvard Med Sch, Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Foot & Ankle Res & Innovat Lab FARIL, Boston, MA USA; [Reichenbach, Rachel] Univ Arizona, Coll Med, Tucson, AZ USA; [Barrack, Michelle T.] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Family & Consumer Sci, Long Beach, CA USA; [Rauh, Mitchell J.] San Diego State Univ, Phys Therapy Program, San Diego, CA USA; [Rhim, Hye Chang] Harvard Med Sch, Spaulding Rehabil Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, 300 1st Ave, Charlestown, MA 02129 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001303775800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Tang, Liz; Brade, Carly J.; Hiscock, Daniel J.; Shaw, Jacob A.; Henley-Martin, Sarah R.; Jacques, Angela; Ducker, Kagan J.								A comparison between traditional children's rugby union games and modified small-sided games aimed at enhancing opportunity for physical activity and enjoyment								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2409	2415		10.1177/17479541241281017			DEC 2024	2024	This study compared traditional rugby union (RU) games to a modified small-sided game (SSG) aimed at improving opportunity for physical activity and enjoyment in children. Twenty-six school rugby players (aged 10 y) played 10 RU matches. Five traditional games on a full-sized field with 10-12 players per team and five SSG on a modified field with seven players per team. Movement patterns, enjoyment, involvements (e.g., possessions, passes, tackles, rucks and tries), and heart rate (HR) were recorded. Session rating of perceived exertion (sRPE) was measured at the end of each game and used to calculate game load (sRPE x duration). Significance was set at p <= 0.05. Individuals covered greater distances (total, low and high speed) overall and relatively (per min) and had higher HR whilst playing traditional format RU. Despite covering greater distances, perceived exertion and game load were similar and importantly, enjoyment was high for both game formats. Individual player match involvements (overall and relative possessions and passes, and relative tackles) were higher in SSG. Given that players enjoyed both game formats, movement pattern and physiological data suggest traditional games may be more suitable for improving physical activity and fitness, while individual involvement data suggest SSG may be more suitable for improving opportunities for participation and skill development.		[Tang, Liz; Brade, Carly J.; Hiscock, Daniel J.; Shaw, Jacob A.; Henley-Martin, Sarah R.; Jacques, Angela; Ducker, Kagan J.] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, Bentley, WA, Australia; [Hiscock, Daniel J.; Shaw, Jacob A.] Wesley Coll, Sport Dept, South Perth, WA, Australia; [Jacques, Angela] Univ Notre Dame, Inst Hlth Res, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Ducker, Kagan J.] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, Discipline Exercise Sci, Kent St, Bentley, WA 6102, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001305438200001	30	Article; Article		
J	Charbonneau, Eve; Sechoir, Lisa; Pascoa, Francisco; Begon, Mickael								Should all athletes use the same twisting strategy? The role of anthropometry in the personalisation of optimal acrobatic techniques								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2024.2394799				2024	Choosing the best acrobatic technique for each athlete remains a challenge for coaches. Predictive simulations may support coaches, but only a few athlete morphologies have been simulated yet. It is assumed that the optimal acrobatic techniques are somehow generalisable across athletes. However, anthropometry characteristics can influence the twist rotation outcome of an acrobatic technique. Our objective was to assess the differences in optimal techniques caused by the anthropometric differences between athletes. Anthropometry-specific techniques of double pike forward somersaults ending with $$1{1 \over 2}$$112 or $$2{1 \over 2}$$212 twists were generated using predictive simulations and the measurements of 18 acrobatic athletes presenting a wide range of anthropometry. We found that anthropometry had an impact on the optimal acrobatic techniques by modifying the amplitude of the strategies used or, more drastically, by modifying the strategies used. Some athletes had a morphological advantage for twist creation, which was measured using the combined twist potential, a metric introduced in the current study. This metric was very strongly correlated with the complexity of the techniques; models with an advantage for twist creation needed fewer/shorter limb movements to generate twists. This research shows that coaches should consider their athletes' anthropometry to offer them better guidance.		[Charbonneau, Eve; Sechoir, Lisa; Pascoa, Francisco; Begon, Mickael] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Lab Simulat & Modelisat Mouvement, Laval, PQ, Canada; [Begon, Mickael] Sainte Justine Hosp Res Ctr, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Charbonneau, Eve] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Lab Simulat & Modelisat Mouvement, Laval, PQ, Canada								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001303784200001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Proppe, Christopher E.; Rivera, Paola M.; Gonzalez-Rojas, David H.; Fukuda, David H.; Wilson, Abigail T.; Mansy, Hansen A.; Hill, Ethan C.								Muscle Swelling and Neuromuscular Responses Following Blood Flow Restricted Exercise in Untrained Women								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	2			248	258		10.1080/02701367.2024.2391422			APR 3 2025	2025	Purpose: There is conflicting evidence related to the prevalence and magnitude of exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD) following four sets to volitional failure with BFR (BFR-F) or 75 total repetitions with BFR (1 x 30, 3 x 15, BFR-75). The purpose of this investigation was to examine muscle swelling, peak torque, and neuromuscular responses following BFR-75 and BFR-F. Methods: Thirteen untrained women completed unilateral isokinetic (120 degrees s-1) leg extensions concentric-eccentric at 30% of their maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) using BFR-75 and BFR-F protocols, separated by 15 minutes. Ultrasound was used to assess muscle thickness, cross sectional area, and echo intensity of the rectus femoris and vastus lateralis before, 0-, 24-, 48-, 72-, and 96-hours post-exercise. Peak torque and surface electromyography (sEMG) were recorded during MVICs before, 24-, 48-, 72-, and 96-hours post-exercise to determine sEMG amplitude, frequency, and neuromuscular efficiency. Results: There were no differences between conditions. Collapsed across conditions, muscle thickness and cross-sectional area increased at 0-hours for the rectus femoris (2.5 +/- 0.4, 2.8 +/- 0.4 cm, 10.6 +/- 1.8, 12.1 +/- 1.8 cm2, respectively) and vastus lateralis (2.1 +/- 0.5, 2.5 +/- 0.7 cm; 22.2 +/- 3.9, 25.1 +/- 4.5 cm2, respectively), but returned to baseline at 24-hours. There were no changes in echo intensity, sEMG amplitude, sEMG frequency, or neuromuscular efficiency. MVIC peak torque increased relative to pre-exercise at 24-, 48-, 72-, and 96-hours (159.9 +/- 34.9, 171.4 +/- 30.1-179.1 +/- 35.6 Nm). Conclusion: These results suggest that BFR-75 and BFR-F did not cause EIMD but caused an acute increase in muscle swelling that returned to baseline 24-hours post-exercise.		[Proppe, Christopher E.; Rivera, Paola M.; Gonzalez-Rojas, David H.; Fukuda, David H.; Wilson, Abigail T.; Mansy, Hansen A.; Hill, Ethan C.] Univ Cent Florida, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Hill, Ethan C.] Florida Space Inst, Orlando, FL USA; [Proppe, Christopher E.] Univ Cent Florida, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, 12494 Univ Blvd 320L, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001304372700001	57	Article; Article		
J	Zhao, Yongxing; Sun, Mingming; Wang, Xiaoshuang; Xu, Qi								Unilateral Plyometric Jump Training Shows Significantly More Effective than Bilateral Training in Improving Both Time to Stabilization and Peak Landing Force in Single-Leg Lend and Hold Test: A Randomized Multi-Arm Study Conducted Among Young Male Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			647	655		10.52082/jssm.2024.647			JUN 2024	2024	Enhancing peak landing forces and ensuring faster stabilization in the lower limbs during jumping activities can significantly improve performance and decrease the risk of injury among basketball players. This study aimed to compare the effects of unilateral (uPJT) and bilateral plyometric jump training (bPJT) programs on various performance measures, including countermovement jump (CMJ), squat jump (SJ), and single-leg land and hold (SLLH) test outcomes, assessed using force plates. A randomized multi-arm study design was employed, comprising two experimental groups (n = 25; uPJT and n = 25; bPJT) and one control group (n = 25), conducted with youth male regional-level basketball players (16.3 +/- 0.6 years old). Participants underwent assessment twice, both before and after an 8-week intervention training period. The uPJT program exclusively involved plyometric drills (e.g., vertical jump exercises; horizontal jump exercises) focusing on single-leg exercises, whereas the bPJT program utilized drills involving both legs simultaneously. The outcomes analyzed included CMJ peak landing force, CMJ peak power, SJ peak force, SJ maximum negative displacement, SLLH time to stabilization, and SLLH peak landing force. The control group exhibited significantly greater SLLH time to stabilization compared to both the uPJT (p p < 0.001) and bPJT (p p < 0.030) groups. Additionally, time to stabilization was also significantly higher in bPJT than in uPJT (p p = 0.042). Comparisons between groups in regards SLLH peak landing force after intervention revealed that the value was significantly smaller in uPJT than in bPJT (p p = 0.043) and control (p p < 0.001). In the remaining outcomes of CMJ and SJ, both uPJT and bPJT showed significant improvement compared to the control group (p > 0.05), although there was no significant difference between them. In conclusion, our study suggests that utilizing uPJT is equally effective as bPJT in enhancing performance in bilateral jump tests. However, it significantly outperforms bPJT in improving time to stabilization and peak landing forces during single-leg land and hold test. uPJT could be advantageous not for maximizing performance but also for potentially decreasing injury risk by enhancing control and balance during single-leg actions, which are common in basketball.		[Zhao, Yongxing; Wang, Xiaoshuang] Chizhou Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Chizhou, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Sun, Mingming] Fuyang Inst Technol, Inst Publ Basic Educ, Fuyang 236031, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Xu, Qi] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Sun, Mingming] Fuyang Inst Technol, Inst Publ Basic Educ, Fuyang 236031, Anhui, Peoples R China								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001290963600001	33	Article; Article		
J	Cao, Jianchun; Eakronnarongchai, Wiradee; Duangkam, Jakrin								Small-Sided Games with Baskets Are Significantly More Effective at Enhancing Neuromuscular Force Parameters Compared to Ball Possession Games: A Randomized Controlled Study in Young Male Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			638	646		10.52082/jssm.2024.638			JUN 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to compare the effects of 8 weeks of small-sided basketball games (SSG) training using baskets (SSGbk) and ball possession games without baskets (SSGbpg) on various neuromuscular parameters in young male basketball players. Specifically, the study examined unilateral isometric knee flexor strength (KFS), unilateral isometric knee extensor strength (KES), bilateral countermovement jump peak power and peak landing force (CMJ), and leg land and hold test (LHT) peak landing force. This randomized controlled study included two experimental groups (SSGbk and SSGbpg) and one control group. Fifty regional competitive-level male youth basketball players (16.7 +/- 0.5 years) were assigned to the groups. The experimental groups participated in two additional SSG weekly training sessions over 8 weeks. Both experimental groups were exposed to the same 2v2 to 4v4 formats of play and training volume, with the only difference being that one group performed ball possession games while the other participated in games targeting to score in the basket. Players were evaluated twice: once at baseline in the week prior to the intervention period, and again in the week post-intervention. The neuromuscular tests were conducted using force platforms. Significant interactions between time and groups were observed in KES ( p < 0.001; eta(2)(p) = 0.902), KFS ( p < 0.001; eta(2)(p) = 0.880), and CMJ peak power ( p < 0.001; eta(2)(p)= 0.630). Significant differences between groups were found post-intervention for the variables of KES ( p = 0.017; eta(2)(p) = 0.159), KFS ( p = 0.011; eta(2)(p) = 0.174), CMJ peak power ( p = 0.017; eta(2)(p) = 0.160), CMJ peak landing force ( p = 0.020; eta(2)(p) = 0.154), and LHT peak power ( p = 0.012; eta(2)(p) = 0.171). In conclusion, our study highlights that the SSGbk significantly increases neuromuscular adaptations in young male basketball players. Conversely, our findings do not support the efficacy of SSGbpg in targeting these specific physical fitness variables. Therefore, the use of SSGs must be carefully considered, particularly in selecting task conditions, to ensure efficacy in interventions.		[Cao, Jianchun; Eakronnarongchai, Wiradee; Duangkam, Jakrin] Udon Thani Rajabhat Univ, Phys Educ & Hlth Educ, 64 Thaharn Rd, Muang 41000, Udon Thani, Thailand; [Duangkam, Jakrin] Udon Thani Rajabhat Univ, Phys Educ & Hlth Educ, 64 Thaharn Rd, Muang 41000, Udon Thani, Thailand								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001280963000001	41	Article; Article		
J	Mao, Lizhi; Ren, Dahua; Huang, Shangjun; Wu, Xie; Ruan, Mianfang								Fascicle Behavior and Muscle Activity of The Biceps Femoris Long Head during Running at Increasing Speeds								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			603	610		10.52082/jssm.2024.603			JUN 2024	2024	Hamstring strain injuries (HSIs) are prevalent in sports involving high-speed running and most of the HSIs are biceps femoris long head (BFlh) injuries. The primary cause for HSIs during high-speed running remains controversial due to the lack of in vivo measurement of the BFlh muscle behavior during running. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to quantify the muscle-tendon unit (MTU) and fascicle behavior of BFlh during running. Seven college male sprinters (22.14 +/- 1.8 years; 177.7 +/- 2.5 cm; 70.57 +/- 5.1 kg; personal bests in 100m: 11.1 +/- 0.2 s) were tested on a motorized treadmill instrumented with two force plate for running at 4, 5, 6m/s. The ground reaction force (GRF), 3D lower limb kinematics, EMG, and ultrasound images of biceps femoris long head (BFlh) in the middle region were recorded simultaneously. BFlh fascicles undergo little length change (about 1 cm) in the late swing phase during running at three submaximal speeds. BFlh fascicle lengthening accounted for about 30% of MTU length change during the late swing phase. BFlh was most active during the late swing and early stance phases, ranging from 83%MVC at a running speed of 4 m/s to 116%MVC at 6 m/s. Muscle fascicles in the middle region of BFlh undergo relatively little lengthening relative to the MTU in the late swing phase during running in comparison to results from simulation studies. These results suggest that there is a decoupling between the fascicle in the middle region and MTU length changes during the late swing phase of running.		[Mao, Lizhi; Ren, Dahua; Ruan, Mianfang] Wenzhou Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Wenzhou 325035, Peoples R China; [Huang, Shangjun] Shanghai Univ Tradit Chinese Med, Peoples Hosp 7, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wu, Xie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Ruan, Mianfang] Wenzhou Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Wenzhou 325035, Peoples R China								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001276427600001	48	Article; Article		
J	Park, Han Soo; Oh, Jae Keun; Kim, Jun Young; Yoon, Jin Ho								The Effect of Strength and Balance Training on Kinesiophobia, Ankle Instability, Function, and Performance in Elite Adolescent Soccer Players with Functional Ankle Instability: A Prospective Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			593	602		10.52082/jssm.2024.593			JUN 2024	2024	We aimed to implement strength and balance training for elite adolescent male soccer players with functional ankle instability (FAI) to assess kinesiophobia, ankle instability, ankle function, and performance. This cluster randomized controlled trial comprised 51 elite adolescent male soccer players with FAI recruited from six different teams, divided into strength, balance, and control groups (SG, n = 17; BG, n = 17; and CG, n = 17, respectively). The SG and BG underwent strength and balance training sessions three times per week for 6 weeks. Primary outcomes were the Tampa scale for kinesiophobia-17 (TSK) and Cumberland ankle instability tool (CAIT) scores to assess kinesiophobia and FAI, respectively. Secondary outcomes were ankle strength (four directions), dynamic balance, static balance (ellipse, displacement, velocity), and performance (figure 8 and side-hop tests). A significant interaction effect was observed for both TSK and CAIT post-intervention (both, P < 0.01). In post hoc analyses, the BG had significantly better outcomes in reducing TSK. The SG and BG showed greater improvements in CAIT scores. Regression analysis indicated that CAIT severity correlated significantly with TSK (P P = 0.039, R = 0.289). For secondary outcomes, the SG and BG were superior in terms of ankle dorsiflexion/inversion strength, static balance displacement, and figure-8 and side-hop tests (all, P < 0.05). The BG showed significantly better static balance ellipse results (P < 0.05). The 6-week intervention significantly enhanced kinesiophobia management, ankle stability, and performance. Balance training effectively mitigated kinesiophobia and improved balance, compared with strength training alone. Even small variations in CAIT severity can influence kinesiophobia, highlighting the potential benefits of balance training. Integrating balance training into training programs can address both physical and psychological aspects of ankle instability. Research is recommended to explore the longitudinal effects of these interventions and their potential to prevent injury recurrence.		[Park, Han Soo; Oh, Jae Keun; Kim, Jun Young; Yoon, Jin Ho] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Sports Med Lab, Seoul 05541, South Korea; [Yoon, Jin Ho] Korea Natl Sport Univ, 1239,Yangjae Daero, Seoul 05541, South Korea								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:001271309600001	55	Article; Article		
J	Zhu, Xiangui; Jiao, Jiao; Liu, Yu; Li, Hong; Zhang, Haifeng								The Release of Lipolytic Hormones during Various High-Intensity Interval and Moderate-Intensity Continuous Training Regimens and Their Effects on Fat Loss								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			559	570		10.52082/jssm.2024.559			JUN 2024	2024	To investigate the release of lipolytic hormones during various high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT), and their effects on fat loss. 39 young women categorized as obese (with a body fat percentage (BFP) >= 30%) were randomly allocated to one of the following groups: all-out sprint interval training (SIT, n =10); supramaximal HIIT (HIIT120, 120%VO2peak, n = 10); HIIT (HIIT90, 90%VO2peak, n = 10), or MICT, (60%VO2peak, n = 9) for a twelve-week observation period consisting of 3 to 4 exercise sessions per week. Serum epinephrine (EPI) and growth hormone (GH) were measured during the 1st, 20th, and 44th training sessions. Body weight (BW), body mass index (BMI), whole-body fat mass (FM) and BFP were assessed pre- and post-intervention. Following the 1st and 20th sessions, significant increases in EPI (p < 0.05) were observed post-exercise in HIIT120 and HIIT90, but not in SIT and MICT. In the 44th session, the increased EPI was found in SIT, HIIT120, and HIIT90, but not in MICT (p < 0.05). For the GH, a significant increase was observed post-exercise in all groups in the three sessions. The increased EPI and GH returned to baselines 3 hours post-exercise. After the 12-week intervention, significant reductions in FM and BFP were found in all groups, while reductions in BW and BMI were only found in the SIT and HIIT groups. Greater reductions in FM and BFP, in comparison to MICT, were observed in the SIT and HIIT groups (p < 0.05). 12-week SIT, HIIT120, and HIIT90, in comparison to MICT, were more efficacious in fat reduction in obese women, partly benefiting from the greater release of lipolytic hormones during training sessions.		[Zhu, Xiangui; Liu, Yu; Li, Hong; Zhang, Haifeng] Hebei Normal Univ, Phys Educ Coll, Shijiazhuang, Peoples R China; [Jiao, Jiao] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport Phys Educ & Hlth, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Jiao, Jiao] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dr Stephen Hui Res Ctr Phys Recreat & Wellness, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Haifeng] Hebei Normal Univ, Hebei Prov Key Lab Measurement & Evaluat Human Mov, Shijiazhuang, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Haifeng] Hebei Normal Univ, Phys Educ Coll, Shijiazhuang, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Haifeng] Hebei Normal Univ, Hebei Prov Key Lab Measurement & Evaluat Human Mov, Shijiazhuang, Peoples R China								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:001270421200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Guanglei; Chen, Wenzheng; Qi, Dongkai; Zhang, Jiao; Men, Zhengxing								The Effects of a 6-Week Plyometric and Sprint Interval Training Intervention on Soccer Player's Physical Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			526	536		10.52082/jssm.2024.526			JUN 2024	2024	Despite the well-documented benefits of sprint interval training (SIT) and plyometric training (PT) in improving the physical fitness of soccer players, it remains unclear which of these training methods is superior for enhancing players' aerobic and anaerobic performance. Therefore, this study aimed to compare the effects of SIT and PT on physical performance measures of male soccer players. Thirty male soccer players were randomly assigned to PT (n = 10), SIT (n = 10), and an active control group (CON, n = 10). Before and after the training period, participants underwent a battery of tests consisting of vertical jump, Wingate, linear sprint with and without ball dribbling, change of direction, ball kick, and the Yo-Yo intermittent recovery level 1 (Yo-Yo IR1) tests. Both groups exhibited similar improvements in maximal kicking distance (PT, effect size [ES] = 0.68; SIT, ES = 0.92) and measures of aerobic fitness including maximum oxygen uptake (PT, ES = 1.24; SIT, ES = 1.26) and first (PT, ES = 0.85; SIT, ES = 1.08) and second (PT, ES = 0.86; SIT, ES = 0.98) ventilatory thresholds. However, PT intervention resulted in greater changes in vertical jump (ES = 1.72 vs. 0.82, p = 0.001), anaerobic power (peak power, ES = 1.62 vs. 0.97, p = 0.009; mean power, ES = 1.15 vs. 1.20, p = 0.05), linear speed (20-m, ES =-1.58 vs.-0.98, p = 0.038; 20-m with ball, ES =-0.93 vs. 0.71, p = 0.038), and change of direction ability (ES =-2.56 vs.-2.71, p = 0.046) than SIT. In conclusion, both PT and SIT demonstrated effectiveness in enhancing aerobic performance among male soccer players. However, PT yielded superior improvements in anaerobic power, vertical jump, linear speed, and change of direction performance compared to SIT. These findings suggest that PT may offer additional benefits beyond aerobic conditioning.		[Yang, Guanglei; Chen, Wenzheng] Chengdu Aeronaut Polytech, Basic Teaching Dept, Chengdu 610100, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Qi, Dongkai] IIT, Coll Comp, Dept Comp Sci, Chicago, IL USA; [Zhang, Jiao] China Natl Childrens Ctr, Interest Training Dept, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Men, Zhengxing] Chengdu Aeronaut Polytech, Sch Aeronaut Mfg Ind, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Chen, Wenzheng] Chengdu Aeronaut Polytech, Basic Teaching Dept, Chengdu 610100, Sichuan, Peoples R China								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:001267040400001	57	Article; Article		
J	Tsilimigkras, Theodoros; Kakkos, Ioannis; Matsopoulos, George K.; Bogdanis, Gregory C.								Enhancing Sports Injury Risk Assessment in Soccer Through Machine Learning and Training Load Analysis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			537	547		10.52082/jssm.2024.537			JUN 2024	2024	Sports injuries pose significant challenges in athlete welfare and team dynamics, particularly in high-intensity sports like soccer. This study used machine learning algorithms to assess non-contact injury risk in professional male soccer players from physiological and mechanical load variables. Twenty-five professional male soccer players with a first-time, non-contact muscle injury were included in this study. Recordings of external load (speed, distance, and acceleration/deceleration data) and internal load (heart rate) were obtained during all training sessions and official matches over a 4-year period. Machine learning model training and evaluation features were calculated for each of nine different metrics for a 28-day period prior to the injury and an equal-length baseline epoch. The acute surge in the values of each workload metric was quantified by the deviation of maximum values from the average, while the variations of cumulative workload over the last four weeks preceding injury were also calculated. Seven features were selected by the model as prominent estimators of injury incidence. Three of the features concerned acute load deviations (number of sprints, training load score-incorporating heart rate and muscle load- and time of heart rate at the 90- 100% of maximum). The four cumulative load features were (total distance, high speed and sprint running distance and training load score). The accuracy of the muscle injury risk assessment model was 0.78, with a sensitivity of 0.73 and specificity of 0.85. Our model achieved high performance in injury risk detection using a limited number of training load variables. The inclusion, for the first time, of heart rate related variables in an injury risk assessment model highlights the importance of physiological overload as a contributor to muscle injuries in soccer. By identifying the important parameters, coaches may prevent muscle injuries by controlling surges of training load during training and competition.		[Tsilimigkras, Theodoros; Kakkos, Ioannis; Matsopoulos, George K.] Natl Tech Univ Athens, Biomed Engn Lab, Athens, Greece; [Tsilimigkras, Theodoros; Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Asteras Tripolis Football Club, Tripoli, Greece; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Asteras Tripolis Football Club, Tripoli, Greece; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:001267040900001	46	Article; Article		
J	Fan, Penglei; Yang, Zhitao; Wang, Ting; Li, Jiaying; Kim, Youngsuk; Kim, Sukwon								Neuromuscular Control Strategies in Basketball Shooting: Distance-Dependent Analysis of Muscle Synergies								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			571	580		10.52082/jssm.2024.571			JUN 2024	2024	Basketball victory relies on an athlete's skill to make precise shots at different distances. While extensive research has explored the kinematics and dynamics of different shooting distances, the specific neuromuscular control strategies involved remain elusive. This study aimed to compare the differences in muscle synergies during basketball shooting at different distances, offering insights into neuromuscular control strategies and guiding athletes' training. Ten skilled shooting right-handed male basketball players participated as subjects in this experiment. Electromyographic (EMG) data for full-phase shooting were acquired at short (3.2 m), middle (5.0 m), and long (6.8 m) distances. Non-negative matrix decomposition extracted muscle synergies (motor modules and motor primitives) during shooting. The results of this study show that all three distance shooting can be broken down into three synergies and that there were differences in the synergies between short and long distances, with differences in motor primitive 1 and motor primitive 2 at the phase of 45% - 59% (p < 0.001, t* = 4.418), and 78% - 88% (p < 0.01, t* = 4.579), respectively, and differences in the motor module 3 found in the differences in muscle weights for rectus femoris (RF) (p = 0.001, d = -2.094), and gastrocnemius lateral (GL) (p = 0.001, d = -2.083). Shooting distance doesn't affect the number of muscle synergies in basketball shooting but alters synergy patterns. During long distance shooting training, basketball players should place more emphasis on the timing and synergistic activation of upper and lower limbs, as well as core muscles.		[Fan, Penglei; Yang, Zhitao; Li, Jiaying; Kim, Youngsuk; Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea; [Yang, Zhitao] Zhoukou Normal Univ, Sch Mech & Elect Engn, Zhoukou, Peoples R China; [Kim, Youngsuk; Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:001267316200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Plesa, Jernej; Ujakovic, Filip; Ribic, Azbe; Bishop, Chris; Sarabon, Nejc; Kozinc, Ziga								Effectiveness of an Individualized Training Based on Dynamic Strength Index on Sprinting, Jumping and Change of Direction Performance in Basketball Players: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			504	514		10.52082/jssm.2024.504			JUN 2024	2024	The dynamic strength index (DSI) is calculated as the ratio between countermovement jump (CMJ) peak force and isometric mid -thigh pull (IMTP) peak force and is said to inform whether ballistic or strength training is warranted for a given athlete. This study assessed the impact of an individualized in -season resistance training program, guided by DSI on basketball players' physical performance. Forty-three elite players (19.4 +/- 2.9 years; 1.97 +/- 0.08 cm; 89.1 +/- 9.5 kg) were divided into an intervention group (IG) (27 players) and a control group (CG) (16 players). The IG was further split based on DSI into a ballistic group (DSI <= 0.90, 11 players) and a strength group (DSI > 0.90, 16 players). Over five weeks, participants underwent two weekly resistance sessions, with the IG following a DSI-based program and the CG a standard program. Performance was measured pre- and postintervention through 20-m sprints, 505 change of direction test, CMJ, and IMTP. There were statistically significant improvements in the IG, notably in sprint times (eta 2 = 0.12-0.21, p < 0.05) and 505 test (eta 2 = 0.15 - 0.16, p < 0.05), predominantly in the strength group. The CG's performance was either unchanged or declined for different variables. Our results suggest that DSIguided training effectively enhances basketball players' physical performance within a competitive season.		[Plesa, Jernej; Sarabon, Nejc; Kozinc, Ziga] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Polje 42, SI-6310 Koper, Slovenia; [Plesa, Jernej; Ujakovic, Filip] Basketball Club Cedevita Olimpija, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Ujakovic, Filip] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Zagreb, Croatia; [Ribic, Azbe] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sports, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Sarabon, Nejc] InnoRenew CoE, Human Hlth Dept, Izola, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Ludwig Boltzmann Inst Rehabil Res, Vienna, Austria; [Kozinc, Ziga] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Polje 42, SI-6310 Koper, Slovenia								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001267520500001	42	Article; Article		
J	Ino, Takumi; Samukawa, Mina; Ishida, Tomoya; Wada, Naofumi; Koshino, Yuta; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu								Validity and Reliability of OpenPose-Based Motion Analysis in Measuring Knee Valgus during Drop Vertical Jump Test								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			515	525		10.52082/jssm.2024.515			JUN 2024	2024	OpenPose-based motion analysis (OpenPose-MA), utilizing deep learning methods, has emerged as a compelling technique for estimating human motion. It addresses the drawbacks associated with conventional three-dimensional motion analysis (3D-MA) and human visual detection-based motion analysis (Human-MA), including costly equipment, time-consuming analysis, and restricted experimental settings. This study aims to assess the precision of OpenPose-MA in comparison to Human-MA, using 3DMA as the reference standard. The study involved a cohort of 21 young and healthy adults. OpenPose-MA employed the OpenPose algorithm, a deep learning-based open-source two-dimensional (2D) pose estimation method. Human-MA was conducted by a skilled physiotherapist. The knee valgus angle during a drop vertical jump task was computed by OpenPose-MA and HumanMA using the same frontal-plane video image, with 3D-MA serving as the reference standard. Various metrics were utilized to assess the reproducibility, accuracy and similarity of the knee valgus angle between the different methods, including the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) (1, 3), mean absolute error (MAE), coefficient of multiple correlation (CMC) for waveform pattern similarity, and Pearson's correlation coefficients (OpenPose-MA vs. 3D-MA, Human-MA vs. 3D-MA). Unpaired t-tests were conducted to compare MAEs and CMCs between OpenPose-MA and Human-MA. The ICCs (1,3) for OpenPose-MA, Human-MA, and 3D-MA demonstrated excellent reproducibility in the DVJ trial. No significant difference between OpenPose-MA and HumanMA was observed in terms of the MAEs (OpenPose: 2.4 degrees [95%CI: 1.9 - 3.0 degrees], Human: 3.2 degrees [95%CI: 2.1 - 4.4 degrees]) or CMCs (OpenPose: 0.83 [range: 0.99 - 0.53], Human: 0.87 [range: 0.240.98]) of knee valgus angles. The Pearson's correlation coefficients of OpenPose-MA and Human-MA relative to that of 3DMA were 0.97 and 0.98, respectively. This study demonstrated that OpenPose-MA achieved satisfactory reproducibility, accuracy and exhibited waveform similarity comparable to 3D-MA, similar to Human-MA. Both OpenPose-MA and Human-MA showed a strong correlation with 3D-MA in terms of knee valgus angle excursion.		[Ino, Takumi] Hokkaido Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Ino, Takumi] Hokkaido Univ Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Samukawa, Mina; Ishida, Tomoya; Koshino, Yuta; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, North 12,West 5,Kita Ku, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600812, Japan; [Wada, Naofumi] Hokkaido Univ Sci, Fac Engn, Dept Informat & Comp Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Samukawa, Mina] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, North 12,West 5,Kita Ku, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600812, Japan								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:001254915800001	41	Article; Article		
J	Duan, Yimei; Lu, Guotian								A Randomized Controlled Trial to Determine the Impact of Resistance Training versus Aerobic Training on the Management of FGF-21 and Related Physiological Variables in Obese Men with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			495	503		10.52082/jssm.2024.495			JUN 2024	2024	Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF-21) has been suggested as a potential therapeutic target for insulin resistance in health-related metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes. Despite the metabolic effects of resistance (RT) and aerobic training (AT) on diabetes symptoms, uncertainty exists regarding the superiority of effects manifested through these training approaches on FGF-21 and biochemical and physiological variables associated with metabolic disorders in men diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. This study aimed to investigate the impact of a 12-week RT and AT on FGF21 levels and symptoms associated with metabolic disorders in male individuals diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. Thirty-six sedentary obese diabetic men (40 to 45 years old) were matched based on the level of FGF-1. They and were randomly divided into two training groups (RT, n = 12 and AT, n = 12) performing three days per week of moderate-intensity RT or AT for 12 weeks and an inactive control group (n = 12). Both training interventions significantly improved FGF-21, glucose metabolism, lipid profile, hormonal changes, strength, and aerobic capacity. Subgroup analysis revealed that RT had greater adaptive responses (p < 0.01) in fasting blood sugar (ES = -0.52), HOMA-IR (ES = -0.87), testosterone (ES = 0.52), cortisol (ES = -0.82), FGF-21 (ES = 0.61), and maximal strength (ES = 1.19) compared to AT. Conversely, AT showed greater changes (p < 0.01) in cholesterol (ES = -0.28), triglyceride (ES = -0.64), HDL (ES = 0.46), LDL (ES = -0.73), and aerobic capacity (ES = 1.18) compared to RT. Overall, both RT and AT interventions yielded significant moderate to large ES in FGF-21 levels and enhanced the management of biochemical variables. RT is an effective method for controlling FGF-21 levels and glucose balance, as well as for inducing hormonal changes. On the other hand, AT is more suitable for improving lipid profiles in overweight men with type 2 diabetes mellitus.		[Duan, Yimei; Lu, Guotian] Sichuan Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Chengdu 610101, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Duan, Yimei] Chengdu Sports Univ, Inst Sports Med & Hlth, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Lu, Guotian] Sichuan Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Chengdu 610101, Sichuan, Peoples R China								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001245311900001	48	Article; Article		
J	Kean, Crystal O.; Burton, Sophie; Janssen, Ina; Brackley, Victoria; Atack, Alexandra C.								Empowering women in sports biomechanics: exploring the impact of mentor circles								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	1			135	149		10.1080/14763141.2024.2388586			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study evaluated the International Society of Biomechanics in Sports (ISBS) women's mentor circle programme. Forty-eight ISBS women members completed a survey that provided insight into how the circles operated, perceived benefits, and challenges to participation. Most circles met every 6-8 weeks with meetings lasting 1 to 1.5 h. However, some circles did not commence or stopped meeting before the end of the 2 years. For those who actively participated, the circles provided personal and professional benefits, which included developing a supportive network and confidence, and improved work-life balance habits. Furthermore, the programme was found to be a valuable use of their time and strengthened their sense of ISBS as a supportive community, increasing their likelihood of staying an ISBS member. Time zone conflicts, lack of a group leader, and changes in individual work or personal life commitments influenced the continuation of some circles over the 2 years. Some respondents did not participate in the circle, and the main reason was lack of knowledge of the programme. Overall, the programme was considered a worthy initiative, providing a supportive network to assist in advancing women biomechanists. Future programmes should ensure a clear alignment between member's expectations and the outcomes of circle participation.		[Kean, Crystal O.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Fac Hlth, Canberra, Australia; [Burton, Sophie] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Janssen, Ina] Sportctr Papendal, Sports Sci & Innovat, Arnhem, Netherlands; [Brackley, Victoria] Victorian Inst Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Atack, Alexandra C.] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Kean, Crystal O.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Fac Hlth, Canberra, Australia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001302387100001	39	Article; Article		
J	Shanmugaratnam, Achuthan; McLaren, Colin D.; Schertzinger, Meredith; Bruner, Mark W.								Exploring the relationship between coach-initiated motivational climate and athlete well-being, resilience, and psychological safety in competitive sport teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			70	78		10.1177/17479541241278602			FEB 1 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to investigate coach-initiated motivational climate and its relationship with athlete well-being, resilience, and psychological safety in competitive sport. In addition to independent relationships between task- and ego-related climates and the study outcomes, this research also explored the potential additive effects of task and ego climate together to understand if a task climate can buffer against the negative impacts of an ego climate. Self-report survey data were collected from competitive soccer players across Ontario, Canada (N=298; M-age=20.38; 58.72% male). Using multiple linear regression, a perceived task-related climate was a significant positive predictor of well-being (beta=.33), resilience (beta=.31), and psychological safety (beta=.54, all ps<.001). A higher perceived ego-related climate was a significant negative predictor of psychological safety (beta=-.23, p<.001), and not significantly related to well-being and resilience. Partial support for the additive effect of task- and ego-related climate together was found for psychological safety, but not well-being or resilience. Specifically, athletes in the latent profile characterized by average task and higher ego scored higher on psychological safety compared with lower task and higher ego climate perceptions. The increase in psychological safety between these two profiles was observed despite both having higher ego-related climates. Although future research is required, the findings offer meaningful contributions to theory and practice in the context of competitive soccer teams.		[Shanmugaratnam, Achuthan; Schertzinger, Meredith; Bruner, Mark W.] Nipissing Univ, North Bay, ON, Canada; [McLaren, Colin D.] Cape Breton Univ, Sydney, NS, Canada; [Shanmugaratnam, Achuthan] Nipissing Univ, North Bay, ON, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001301070300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Del Priore, Liliam Barbuglio; Briani, Ronaldo V.; Waiteman, Marina C.; Farinelli, Lucca Andre Liporoni Bego; da Silva, Gleison Gustavo Moraes; da Silva, Theo Muniz de Souza Borges; Glaviano, Neal; de Azevedo, Fabio M.								"I believe it will not get worse": A mixed-methods longitudinal study about patient's perspective of recently developed patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				29	35		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.08.007			NOV 2024	2024	Objectives: This study aimed to: (i) understand how women perceived their recently developed patellofemoral pain (PFP) regarding its cause, prognosis, and willingness to seek treatment; (ii) investigate self-reported function, knee-related quality of life (QoL), fear of movement, and physical activity level at the onset of PFP. Design: Mixed-methods longitudinal study. Setting: University. Participants: Sixty-eight pain-free women were followed up over one year. Main outcome measures: Those who developed PFP were interviewed within one month of the development of symptoms. Self-reported function, kinesiophobia, knee-related QoL, and physical activity were obtained at baseline and follow-up assessments. Results: Twenty-one women developed PFP. Most participants reported believing the increase in physical activity and/or sitting time was associated with the onset of PFP. Many reported believing symptoms would improve over time without any treatment. Only a small number of participants intended to seek care. Quantitatively, decreases in self-reported function and QoL, as well as increases in the physical activity level were observed after PFP development. Conclusion: Although decreases in self-reported function and QoL were observed, women reported believing their PFP is self-limiting and do not need treatment. Strategies to accurately disseminate knowledge about PFP are needed to help stimulating early care.		[Del Priore, Liliam Barbuglio; Briani, Ronaldo V.; Waiteman, Marina C.; da Silva, Gleison Gustavo Moraes] Sao Paulo State Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Phys Therapy, 305 Roberto Simonsen St, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil; [Glaviano, Neal] Univ Connecticut, Coll Agr Hlth & Nat Resources, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Briani, Ronaldo V.] Sao Paulo State Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Phys Therapy, 305 Roberto Simonsen St, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001309779700001	51	Article; Article		
J	Macdonald, Luke A.; Chalkley, Daniel; Parsonage, Joanna; Gosney, Sienna; Webster, Hannah; Minahan, Clare L.								The importance of paddling to surfing performance: Insights from elite athletes, coaches, and performance support practitioners								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2334	2344		10.1177/17479541241268674			DEC 2024	2024	Although paddling has been widely studied, there remains a limited understanding of how a surfer's paddling ability directly influences their wave-riding performance. Using an ecological approach, this study examined the importance of paddling to surfing performance from the perspective of elite Australian athletes, coaches, and performance support practitioners. Ten elite Australian surfing coaches, ten elite Australian surfing athletes, and eight performance support practitioners completed semi-structured interviews. This approach underscores the significance of incorporating experiential knowledge from coaches, athletes, and performance support practitioners, particularly in surfing where the nature of high-performance sport requires a multi-disciplinary approach and highlights the potential value of qualitatively exploring expert perspectives. Findings showed that all participants agree that paddling is an integral aspect of surfing performance despite not being directly scored in competition. The ecological dynamics approach provided a framework for understanding the function of paddling as a tool that enables surfers to exploit the affordances of the environment and support positive performance outcomes under highly variable conditions. The findings highlight the complexities of the performer-environment relationship in surfing and draw attention to the potential for improvements in surfing performance that may be elicited by enhancing a surfer's paddling ability. This study contributes to a growing body of sports science literature investigating paddling performance in surfers and underscores the importance of paddling to surfing performance.		[Macdonald, Luke A.; Parsonage, Joanna; Gosney, Sienna; Webster, Hannah; Minahan, Clare L.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Griffith Sports Sci, Gold Coast, Australia; [Macdonald, Luke A.; Parsonage, Joanna; Gosney, Sienna; Webster, Hannah] Surfing Australia High Performance Ctr, High Performance Program, Casuarina, Australia; [Macdonald, Luke A.; Gosney, Sienna] Queensland Acad Sport, SPIKE Unit, Nathan, Australia; [Macdonald, Luke A.; Minahan, Clare L.] Australian Inst Sport, Canberra, Australia; [Chalkley, Daniel] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Banyo, Australia; [Macdonald, Luke A.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Griffith Sports Sci, Clin Sci G02,Southport, Gold Coast, Qld 4215, Australia								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001300186500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Blattler, Mirko; Bizzini, Mario; Schaub, Gianluca; Monn, Samara; Barrue-Belou, Simon; Oberhofer, Katja; Maffiuletti, Nicola A.								Assessment of hip abductor and adductor muscle strength with fixed-frame dynamometry: Considerations on the use of bilateral and unilateral tasks								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				22	28		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.08.004			NOV 2024	2024	Objective: To examine the specificities and limitations of bilateral and unilateral tasks for the assessment of hip abductor and adductor strength with a commercially-available fixed-frame dynamometer. Design: Correlational/validity study. Methods: Maximal voluntary isometric strength of hip abductors and adductors was evaluated in 130 healthy participants using unilateral and bilateral tasks. Surface EMG activity of agonist and stabilizer muscles was concomitantly recorded in a subgroup of 15 participants. Results: For both muscle groups, bilateral tasks resulted in higher strength values than unilateral tasks (similar to 25%; p < 0.001). The correlation between left- and right-side data was higher for bilateral than unilateral tasks (p < 0.05), thereby resulting in lower interlimb asymmetries (p < 0.001). Agonist EMG activity was lower for unilateral than bilateral tasks (p < 0.01). Stabilizer EMG activity (external abdominal oblique) was higher for unilateral than bilateral tasks (p < 0.05) on the ipsilateral and contralateral side for hip abductors and adductors, respectively. Conclusions: A large (25%) and quasi-systematic bilateral facilitation of strength was observed for both hip abductors and adductors. Bilateral testing led to an underestimation of interlimb asymmetries, due to higher side equivalence than unilateral tasks. Unilateral testing resulted in lower agonist EMG activity and higher stabilizer activity than bilateral tasks, especially in weaker subjects.		[Blattler, Mirko; Bizzini, Mario; Schaub, Gianluca; Monn, Samara; Oberhofer, Katja; Maffiuletti, Nicola A.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland; [Blattler, Mirko] Swiss Fed Labs Mat Sci & Technol, Lab Mech Syst Engn Empa, Dubendorf, Switzerland; [Barrue-Belou, Simon] La Tour Hosp, Physiotherapy Dept, Meyrin, Switzerland; [Barrue-Belou, Simon] La Tour Hosp, Mot Anal Lab, Meyrin, Switzerland; [Maffiuletti, Nicola A.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001303815100001	26	Article; Article		
J	Adams, Stuart R.; Wollin, Martin; Drew, Michael K.; Toohey, Liam A.; Smith, Chris; Borges, Nattai; Livingston, Glen C.; Schultz, Adrian								Secondary injury prevention reduces hamstring strain and time-loss groin injury burdens in male professional football								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				15	21		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.08.003			NOV 2024	2024	Objectives: This study aimed to assess the effectiveness of a systems-based secondary injury prevention intervention aimed at early detection and management of hamstring strain injury (HSI) and time-loss groin injury in an Australian male professional football club. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Australian male professional football club. Participants: Data were collected from male professional football players (n = 73) from a single football club. Main outcome measures: Unilateral knee flexion and side-lying hip adduction maximum voluntary isometric contractions were monitored routinely in-season, two days post-match (>= 40 h [h]) during a three-season intervention period. Strength reductions greater than the tests' minimal detectable change percentage prompted intervention. HSI and time-loss groin injury burdens were calculated per 1000 player hours and compared with those from an immediately preceding two-season control period, to assess the effectiveness of the intervention. Results: Across the intervention period, there was a decrease in HSI (4.98 days absence/1000 h (19.8%) decrease) and time-loss groin injury burdens (0.57 days absence/1000 h (49.1%) decrease) when compared with the control period. Conclusions: A systems-based secondary injury prevention intervention shows preliminary positive findings in reducing HSI and time-loss groin injury burdens within a male professional football club, compared with usual care only.		[Adams, Stuart R.; Borges, Nattai; Livingston, Glen C.] Univ Newcastle, Coll Engn Sci & Environm, Newcastle, Australia; [Adams, Stuart R.; Smith, Chris] Newcastle Jets Football Club, Newcastle, Australia; [Wollin, Martin] Performance Hlth Management, Canberra, Australia; [Wollin, Martin] La Trobe Univ, Melbourne, Australia; [Drew, Michael K.; Toohey, Liam A.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise UCRISE, Canberra, Australia; [Toohey, Liam A.] Australian Inst Sport, Bruce, Australia; [Borges, Nattai] UNSW Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Schultz, Adrian] Australian Coll Phys Educ ACPE, Sydney Olymp Pk, Sydney, Australia; [Adams, Stuart R.] Univ Newcastle, Coll Engn Sci & Environm, Newcastle, Australia								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001301720900001	40	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Hanwen; Arnett, Scott; Tolusso, Dano; Woodard, Kaylee								The effects of attentional focus instructions on approach jump performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2397	2408		10.1177/17479541241270392			DEC 2024	2024	Introduction: Attentional focus has been shown to significantly influence motor learning and performance, with external focus instructions enhancing performance compared to internal focus instructions. Research has also demonstrated that novice performance is improved when instructed to focus on skill execution processes rather than outcomes. However, this effect remains untested in complex jumping skills crucial to numerous sports. Purpose: This study aimed to investigate the effect of internally and externally directed process and outcome focus instructions on approach jump height and approach speed in novice participants. Methods: Twelve individuals aged 18 to 22 participated across three sessions: Familiarization, Test Session 1, and Test Session 2. During the test sessions, participants executed approach jumps in various conditions, each emphasizing specific cues: External Focus-Outcome, Internal Focus-Outcome, External Focus-Process, and Internal Focus-Process. Jump-and-Reach Height, Estimated Jump Height by Flight Time, and Approach Speed were assessed through 2 x 2 repeated measures ANOVAs. Results: External focus and outcome conditions led to the highest jump-and-reach height (p < .05). Process conditions yielded faster approach speed compared to outcome conditions (p < .001), irrespective of internal or external focus direction. Estimated jump height by flight time was similar across all conditions. Conclusions: The study suggests that benefits of external focus and process instructions for novices may apply only to certain performance variables in complex motor skills. Practical Applications: Practitioners can optimize novices' performance using various process- and outcome-based instructions. External, outcome-based cues enhance overall task performance, while process-based cues may improve specific technical components.		[Liu, Hanwen] Tennessee State Univ, Ctr Excellence Sport Sci & Coach Educ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN 37615 USA; [Arnett, Scott; Woodard, Kaylee] Western Kentucky Univ, Sch Kinesiol Recreat & Sport, Bowling Green, KY USA; [Tolusso, Dano] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Milwaukee, WI USA; [Liu, Hanwen] Tennessee State Univ, Ctr Excellence Sport Sci & Coach Educ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN 37615 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001296978900001	46	Article; Article		
J	Gazley, Aaron; Coombes, Jamie								The role of source attractiveness and source credibility in advertising field hockey: a minority sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1203	1218		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2024-0040			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeThe purpose of this research is to examine the extent to which source attractiveness and source credibility (or skill in a sporting context) provide an effective marketing strategy for Field Hockey in New Zealand, a minority sport Minority sports struggle to generate capital and have minimal sponsorship backing due to small participation and viewership rates compared to "major sports". By understanding how source attractiveness and source credibility work in the context of a minority sport such as hockey, more effective advertising towards target audiences can be achieved. We also consider differences between advertising to players and no-players of the sport. This is the first research to consider these issues.Design/methodology/approachFour advertisements were created in an experimental design that manipulated the two variables: source credibility and source attractiveness, in an advertisement promoting Hockey. A survey was conducted, using an online questionnaire.FindingsResults show that a mixture physical attractiveness and skill (credibility) increase attitudes towards the advertisement. This results in positive intentions to both watch and play hockey. When the respondents were segmented into hockey players and non-hockey players, only skill is effective for the Hockey Player segment, whereas both skill and attractiveness are effective for non-players.Research limitations/implicationsFuture research should include comparing hockey to further minority sports codes. Additionally, understanding if male models created the same effects would be particularly interesting for further research.Practical implicationsManagement should focus on skill, with physical attractiveness being considered, but not as the most important attribute. If targeting hockey players, skill needs to be especially visible. Even though these elements could be argued to be within the "proverbial eye of the beholder", the results have shown that in terms of sports advertising, it is possible to portray these two attributes in a generalised way.Originality/valueThis research to focuses on source credibility and attractiveness in a minority sporting context, in particular field hockey, whereas the majority of research considers major sporting codes. In addition, involvement with the sport is also considered.		[Gazley, Aaron] Amer Univ Sharjah, Sharjah, U Arab Emirates; [Coombes, Jamie] Victoria Univ Wellington, Wellington, New Zealand; [Gazley, Aaron] Amer Univ Sharjah, Sharjah, U Arab Emirates								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001294401500001	73	Article; Article		
J	Small, Gabriella H.; Neptune, Richard R.								How take-off technique affects muscle demand in the back handspring step out in female gymnasts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			2006	2020		10.1080/14763141.2024.2388578			JUL 3 2025	2025	When performing the back handspring step out (BHS) on the balance beam, most gymnasts use one of three take-off techniques: Simultaneous Flexion, Sequential Flexion or Double-Bounce. However, it remains unclear which technique results in the lowest muscle demand that could help reduce energy expenditure and fatigue and improve overall performance. The purpose of this study was to use musculoskeletal modelling and simulation to quantify the influence of take-off technique on muscle demand (integrated muscle power) and contributions to the critical biomechanical functions of whole-body angular momentum generation and control and trunk propulsion (mechanical power delivered to the trunk). Simulations of female gymnasts (n = 21; age: 15.3 +/- 3.6) were generated using their self-selected BHS technique on a balance beam. Differences in muscle demand were small across the techniques. However, the vasti, ankle plantarflexors, gluteus maximus and hamstring muscle groups experienced large demand during the BHS take-off. The gluteus medius and ankle plantarflexors were crucial for maintaining balance. The hamstrings, ankle plantarflexors and vasti generated needed momentum and delivered power to the trunk. These results provide targets for muscle strengthening and conditioning to improve balance control and increase the height and distance of the BHS, which is needed before adding additional skills in combination.		[Small, Gabriella H.; Neptune, Richard R.] Univ Texas Austin, Walker Dept Mech Engn, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Neptune, Richard R.] Univ Texas Austin, Walker Dept Mech Engn, Austin, TX 78712 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001294231600001	25	Article; Article		
J	Nagahara, Ryu; Girard, Olivier; Messou, Paul-Axel								Rates of ground reaction force development are associated with running speed during sprint acceleration								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				20	1			123	129		10.1177/17479541241276476			FEB 1 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate the relationship between overground sprint performance and rates of force development (RFDs) in ground reaction forces (GRF) during the entire acceleration phase. Thirty-one male sprinters performed 60-m sprints during which the GRF from the start to the 50-m mark were measured. The vertical, braking and propulsive RFDs at each step were calculated as the average rate of change in GRF. Average values for each four steps during the acceleration phase were calculated to examine relationships between running speed or average horizontal external power (AHEP) and RFD values. The RFD values ranged from 859.8 +/- 191.1 to 1682.0 +/- 258.2 N/s/kg for vertical force, -502.6 +/- 215.7 to -1033.8 +/- 196.2 N/s/kg for braking force, and 97.2 +/- 11.7 to 185.4 +/- 32.3 N/s/kg for propulsive force. There were associations of running speed with vertical RFD at the 21(st)-24(th) step section (r=0.385) and with propulsive RFD at the 1(st)-4(th) step section and from the 13(th)-16(th) to 21(st)-24(th) step sections (r=0.386-0.559). Moreover, AHEP was correlated with vertical RFD from the 13(th)-16(th) to 21(st)-24(th) step sections (r=0.442-0.523), with braking RFD at the 17(th)-20(th) and 21(st)-24(th) step sections (r=-0.423 and -0.448), and with propulsive RFD at every step section (r=0.374-0.856). In conclusion, greater propulsive RFD throughout the acceleration phase, along with higher braking and vertical RFD during the later acceleration section, may indicate better sprint performance.		[Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, 1 Shiromizu Cho, Kanoya, Kagoshima 8912393, Japan; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Messou, Paul-Axel] Winona State Univ, Performance Analyt Masters Program, Winona, MS USA; [Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, 1 Shiromizu Cho, Kanoya, Kagoshima 8912393, Japan								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001293161500001	35	Article; Article		
J	Sweeney, Liam; MacNamara, Aine; Taylor, Jamie; Lundberg, Tommy R.								Selection of reference data significantly influences biological maturity timing classification in national youth soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2356	2365		10.1177/17479541241277661			DEC 2024	2024	This study investigated biological maturity timing (BMT) in 116 Irish U13 and 958 Swedish U15 male national soccer players using various growth reference datasets. BMT was expressed as a Z-score comparing each player's percentage of predicted adult height (%PAH) to age-specific means and standard deviations reported in the: Berkeley Growth Longitudinal (US), UK 1990 growth reference (UK), and Swedish 2000s growth reference (SWE) studies. Multinomial logistic regression was used to compare BMT classification (Early, On-time, Late) between datasets. One-sampled means t-tests were used to examine BMT-related maturity biases per cohort and reference dataset. For both Swedish U15 (p < 0.001) and Irish U13 (p = 0.003) players, BMT classification was significantly influenced by the selection of the growth reference dataset. Only 61% of players had the same BMT category across all reference datasets. Significant maturity biases existed in favour of early maturing Swedish players (mean = 96.5%PAH) in all datasets, although moderate using SWE (d = 0.7), large using UK (d = 1.02), and very large using US (d = 1.36) (all p < 0.001). Small significant maturity biases existed in favour of early maturing Irish players (mean = 87.1%PAH) using UK (p < 0.001, d = 0.48) and US (p < 0.001, d = 0.33), but not SWE. We conclude that maturity Z-scores must be interpreted with significant caution, given the large variations in BMT classification between reference datasets.		[Sweeney, Liam] Maynooth Univ, Fac Sci & Engn, Dept Sport Sci & Nutr, Kildare, Ireland; [MacNamara, Aine; Taylor, Jamie] Dublin City Univ, Fac Sci & Hlth, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Taylor, Jamie] Dublin City Univ, Insight SFI Ctr Data Analyt, Dublin, Ireland; [Taylor, Jamie] Grey Matters Performance Ltd, Stratford Upon Avon, England; [Lundberg, Tommy R.] Karolinska Inst, Dept Lab Med, Div Clin Physiol, ANA Futura, S-14152 Huddinge, Sweden; [Lundberg, Tommy R.] Karolinska Univ Hosp, Unit Clin Physiol, Stockholm, Sweden; [Lundberg, Tommy R.] Karolinska Inst, Dept Lab Med, Div Clin Physiol, ANA Futura, S-14152 Huddinge, Sweden								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001293746400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Gasser, Benedikt; Frey, Walter O.; Valdivieso, Paola; Scherr, Johannes; Kopf, Juana; Spoerri, Joerg; Flueck, Martin								Are the Positions in the Word Ranking of Competitive Alpine Skiers Explainable by Prominent Polymorphisms in Regulatory Genes of Mechanical and Metabolic Muscle Functioning?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			192	200		10.1080/02701367.2024.2387040			JAN 2 2025	2025	Background: The success of competitive alpine skiers with respective to their world ranking (WR) positions might be associated with prominent gene polymorphisms. Methods: Twenty-six competitive alpine skiers were followed from 2015 to 2019 for their WR positions (FIS-ranking). Using PCR, the genotypes of ACE-I/D, TNC, ACTN3, and PTK2 were identified. The correlations between the discipline-specific WR position (slalom-SL, giant slalom-GS, super G-SG, downhill-DH, and alpine combined-AC) and gene polymorphisms were analyzed concerning an influence with multivariate regression models. Results: The WR position and the ACE gene as well as the copy number of the ACE I-allele exhibited reciprocal relationships for speed specialists (SG and DH) but not for technical specialists (SL and GS). Similarly, the gene polymorphisms ACTN3 and (partly) PTK2 were associated with the WR position in disciplines characterized by a high number of turns (technical specialists-SL and GS) and speed (speed-specialists-SG and DH), respectively. Conclusions: Our findings emphasize the contributions of aerobic and cardiovascular metabolism in fueling muscle work and recovering from muscle fatigue for competitive success in slalom-driven skiing disciplines and highlight the contributions of sequence variants in the genes ACE, TNC, and ACTN3.		[Gasser, Benedikt] Univ Basel, Basel, Switzerland; [Frey, Walter O.] Hirslandenklinik, CH-8032 Zurich, Switzerland; [Valdivieso, Paola; Flueck, Martin] Univ Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; [Scherr, Johannes; Kopf, Juana; Spoerri, Joerg] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Zurich, Switzerland; [Flueck, Martin] Univ Fribourg, Fribourg, Switzerland; [Flueck, Martin] Swiss Fed Inst Sport, BASPO, Magglingen, Switzerland; [Gasser, Benedikt] Univ Basel, Dept Sport Bewegung Gesundheit Abt Rehabil & Regen, Grosse Allee 6, CH-4052 Basel, Switzerland; [Flueck, Martin] Univ Fribourg, Sect Med, PER 09 Bureau,Lab 0-105 B, CH-1700 Fribourg, Switzerland								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001296283700001	42	Article; Article		
J	Wik, Eirik Halvorsen; Sewry, Nicola; Derman, Wayne; Schwellnus, Martin; Eken, Maaike								Ankle, knee and concussion concerns: Unveiling injury patterns in highly trained South African netball players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				70				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.08.002			NOV 2024	2024	Objectives: To describe the rate and type of netball injuries sustained during women's university-level tournament matches in South Africa. Design: Descriptive epidemiological study. Setting: Three editions of the women's Varsity Netball tournament (2021-23). Participants: Student-athletes representing nine university women's teams. Main outcome measures: Medical attention match injuries prospectively recorded by team medical staff. Injuries were classified according to the 2020 consensus statement, with the addition of "concussion" as a separate pathology type. The main outcomes are reported as incidence (injuries per 1000h; 95% confidence intervals CIs), burden (days lost per 1000h; 95%CIs), and frequency (% of all injuries). Results: Sixty-three injuries were recorded from 48 different players (58.8 per 1000h; 45.2-75.3) and the overall injury burden was 401 days per 1000h (364-440). Injury incidence by pathology type was highest for joint sprains (28.9 per 1000h), tendinopathies (7.5 per 1000h), and concussions (4.7 per 1000h). Joint sprains to the ankle accounted for 49% of the overall estimated days lost. Conclusions: Ankle joint sprains should be the primary target of injury risk reduction programmes in highly trained netball players. Concussions were reported and efforts should be made to increase awareness among players, coaches and medical staff.		[Wik, Eirik Halvorsen; Derman, Wayne; Eken, Maaike] Stellenbosch Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Med ISEM, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, POB 19063, ZA-7505 Tygerberg, South Africa; [Wik, Eirik Halvorsen] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Div Physiotherapy, POB 241, ZA-8000 Cape Town, South Africa; [Sewry, Nicola; Derman, Wayne; Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Fac Hlth Sci, Burnett Str,Hillcrest Campus, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa; [Sewry, Nicola; Schwellnus, Martin] Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [Wik, Eirik Halvorsen] Stellenbosch Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Med ISEM, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, POB 19063, ZA-7505 Tygerberg, South Africa								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001297741100001	32	Article; Article		
J	Yao, Yunhao; Zheng, Ruoquan; Parmak, Merle								Why would you choose yachting tourism? Exploring the push-pull motivations and constraints in China								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1240	1263		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2024-0043			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeThe main aims of this study were to develop analytical scales for yachting tourism push-pull motivations and constraints, and analyze how these factors may influence the revisit intention of yachting tourists in China.Design/methodology/approachThe analysis was conducted using the PLS-SEM, including the evaluation of measurement models and the structural models. SPSS18.0 and SmartPLS 3.3.5 software were used for statistical analysis.FindingsWe conducted a survey of 451 respondents who participate in yachting activities in Dalian, China and identified six push motivational factors (novelty and stimulation, sightseeing and leisure, sports and learning, social relationships, self-esteem and prestige and self-realization), three pull motivational factors (featured activities and services, destination environment, destination facilities) and two constraints (internal and external). Partial least squares structural equation modelling showed that all hypothesized interactions between identified factors were statistically significant and meaningful.Originality/valueThe push-pull-constraint model offers a new interpretation to the traditional push-pull model in theory, and the results contribute to local yacht industry sectors.		[Yao, Yunhao; Parmak, Merle] Dalian Maritime Univ, Coll Publ Adm & Humanities, Dalian, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Ruoquan] Tianjin Maritime Coll, Tianjin, Peoples R China; [Yao, Yunhao] Dalian Maritime Univ, Coll Publ Adm & Humanities, Dalian, Peoples R China								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001290285300001	109	Article; Article		
J	Marthinus, Justin; Duffett, Rodney Graeme; Knott, Brendon								Social media adoption as a marketing communication tool by non-professional sports clubs: a multiple case study approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	6			14	31		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2024-0082			AUG 15 2024	2024	PurposeSocial media has revolutionized marketing communication (MC). Rugby is South Africa's most professionalized sport, leading the industry in its business management structure as well as its high-performance achievements. However, below the professional level, local rugby clubs face a large disparity compared to their professional counterparts, often relying on volunteers or part-time employees to manage the organizations. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate how non-professional rugby clubs use social media as a MC tool.Design/methodology/approachThe study was exploratory, and a cross-sectional sample of twelve organizations was selected and employed a multiple case study approach. Club managers responsible for MC or social media participated in semi-structured interviews. The qualitative data analysis software, ATLAS.ti, facilitated the researchers' use of an inductive approach to develop codes and themes for further analysis.FindingsThe findings revealed a high level of adoption of social media by the multiple cases (i.e. rugby sports club respondents), with only slight variations in the usage of specific social media applications (viz., Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and WhatsApp). The sports clubs perceived that employing social media added substantial value to their MC. There were six emergent themes related to the organization's perceived benefits from adopting social media MC, namely: brand awareness, relationship-building, player recruitment, attracting sponsors, storytelling, and information sharing.Originality/valueThe study makes a novel contribution in terms of how rugby clubs use social media as an MC tool. The paper advances scant knowledge and awareness of the relationship between South Africa's sports marketing and social media. The conclusions will aid non-professional sports organizations in enhancing the effectiveness of their social media marketing by ensuring that their objectives and target audiences are well-defined.		[Marthinus, Justin; Duffett, Rodney Graeme] Cape Peninsula Univ Technol, Dept Mkt, Cape Town, South Africa; [Knott, Brendon] Cape Peninsula Univ Technol, Sport Management Dept, Cape Town, South Africa; [Duffett, Rodney Graeme] Cape Peninsula Univ Technol, Dept Mkt, Cape Town, South Africa								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001289548400001	80	Article; Article		
J	Scott, Michelle; Elsworthy, Nathan; Brackley, Victoria; Elipot, Marc; Kean, Crystal O.								Agreement between an automated video-based system and tethered system to measure instantaneous swimming velocity								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	1			122	134		10.1080/14763141.2024.2388572			JAN 2 2026	2026	Successful performance in competitive swimming requires a swimmer to maximise propulsion and minimise drag, which can be assessed using instantaneous swimming velocity. Many systems exist to quantify velocity, and therefore, it is important to understand the agreement between systems. This study examined the agreement between an automated video-based system and a tethered system to measure instantaneous velocity. Twenty-two competitive swimmers (state level or higher) completed 25 m of each stroke at maximal intensity. The tethered speedometer was attached to the swimmer's waist, while videos of each trial were recorded. The swimmer's head was then automatically tracked using proprietary software, and instantaneous velocity was determined from each system. Bland-Altman plots showed good agreement between the two systems in backstroke (95% Limits of Agreement (LOA): -0.24-0.26 m.s-1) and freestyle (95% LOA: -0.36-0.38 m.s-1) but poorer agreement in butterfly (95% LOA: -0.51-0.53 m.s-1) and breaststroke (95% LOA: -0.88-0.92 m.s-1). The root mean square error was higher in butterfly (0.27 m.s-1) and breaststroke (0.46 m.s-1) compared to backstroke (0.13 m.s-1) and freestyle (0.19 m.s-1). Results demonstrated that the two systems are comparable for measuring instantaneous swimming velocity; however, larger discrepancies are evident for butterfly and breaststroke.		[Scott, Michelle; Elsworthy, Nathan; Kean, Crystal O.] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Mackay, Qld, Australia; [Brackley, Victoria] Victorian Inst Sport, Melbourne Victoria, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Elipot, Marc] Swimming Australia, Swimming Insight, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Kean, Crystal O.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Fac Hlth, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Kean, Crystal O.] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Mackay, Qld, Australia; [Kean, Crystal O.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Fac Hlth, Canberra, ACT, Australia								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001291412100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Han, Yaogang; Wang, Yubing; Li, Pan; Zhang, Binn								Attitude, Habit Strength, and the Relationship Between Intention and Leisure-Time Physical Activity Behavior Among College Students								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			223	232		10.1080/02701367.2024.2389906			JAN 2 2025	2025	According to the dual-process theories, many scholars proposed that physical activity behavior tends to be governed by an interplay of intentional planning and habitual action. The major purpose of this study was to determine the moderation effects of habit strength on the relationship between leisure time moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) intention and behavior and the impacts of cognitive and affective attitude on PA habit strength, utilizing a latent interaction modeling approach. A total of 1803 undergraduate students completed this study. All variables were measured using validated self-report questionnaires. Structural equation modeling and Hayes' PROCESS program (model 1) were conducted to address the research questions. Habit strength significantly and positively moderated the effects of intention on leisure time MVPA behavior (beta = .08, p < .01). The association between intention and PA behavior became stronger as habit strength increased. Affective attitude positively and significantly influenced habit strength (beta = .71, p < .01). The effect of cognitive attitude on habit strength was significant and negative with a small effect size (beta = -.08, p < .01). Findings indicated that habit strength positively moderated the relationship between PA intention and behavior, suggesting that stronger habit strength may amplify the association between PA intention and actual PA behavior. Affective attitude toward PA significantly influenced habit strength, whereas cognitive attitude exhibited minimal negative impact on habit strength. These findings contribute to our understanding of the interaction effects between deliberative and automatic processes in regulating PA behavior, as well as the nuanced relationship between attitude and habit development.		[Han, Yaogang; Li, Pan; Zhang, Binn] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yubing] Old Dominion Univ, Norfolk, VA USA; [Li, Pan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, 399 Changhai Rd, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001291227800001	73	Article; Article		
J	Zhu, Qiqi; Bloom, Gordon A.; Xu, Chong; Alexander-Urquhart, Danielle; Guo, Liya; Zhu, Yu								Elite tennis player's perceptions of coaching effectiveness								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2310	2320		10.1177/17479541241266700			DEC 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to explore the experiences of six elite Chinese tennis players and their perspectives of coaching effectiveness within their sport. We collected data using two approaches: semi-structured interviews and player documents (e.g., detailed biographies, competition experience, and performance statistics). Data were analyzed using a reflexive thematic analysis to identify the coaches' knowledge and behaviors that elite Chinese players considered to be effective and ineffective within the training and competitive landscape. We constructed two overarching themes to represent elite tennis player's perceptions regarding coaching effectiveness: (1) perceived coaching roles (i.e., the coach as a planner, teacher, and strategist), and (2) coaching as a social phenomenon (i.e., interpersonal styles and networks, effective and ineffective behaviors). Theoretically, this study aligns with the 3 + 1Cs model of the coach-athlete relationship and enriches the literature on coaching effectiveness in elite tennis. Practically, this study underscores the value of coaching knowledge and behaviors in shaping player's competitive performance and sociopsychological abilities and identifies recommendations for coaches and players to develop harmonious and meaningful relationships within the elite tennis context.		[Zhu, Qiqi; Guo, Liya; Zhu, Yu] Southwest Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Chongqing 400715, Peoples R China; [Bloom, Gordon A.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Xu, Chong] Chongqing Coll Elect Engn, Minist Sports & Natl Def Educ, Chongqing, Peoples R China; [Alexander-Urquhart, Danielle] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Zhu, Yu] Southwest Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Chongqing 400715, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001289669900001	55	Article; Article		
J	Sewry, Nicola; MacMillan, Candice; Maree, Willie; Readhead, Clint; Cantwell, Lynne; Jordaan, Esme; Swanevelder, Sonja								Predictors of match performance in the South African Rugby Union Women's Premier Division								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2416	2423		10.1177/17479541241270459			DEC 2024	2024	Purpose Performance indicators in women's rugby union are under-researched. The aim of this study was to describe the match activities and determine the predictors for winning/losing and points difference in the South African Rugby Union (SARU) Women's Premier Division competition.Methods During the 2021 and 2022 seasons, SARU-coded matches included 33 indicators (including attacking, defensive, set plays, and error categories) which were analysed for two outcome variables: winning/losing and points difference (points for MINUS points against).Results The results of the study showed that for winning compared to losing, tries (OR = 6.48; p = 0.0001), goal kicking success % (OR = 1.03; p = 0.0245), and dominant tackles % (OR = 1.45; p = 0.0333) increased the odds of winning, whilst yellow cards decreased the odds (OR = 0.27; p = 0.0199). For points difference, Factor 1 (OR = 1.016) including variables related to clean breaks, tries and conversions thereof, were predictive of a larger points difference, whilst Factor 6 (positive tackles, lineout wins; OR = 0.958) favoured a close match/smaller points difference.Conclusion The predictive indicators differed from those found in previous literature. However, there was little to no data available on women's rugby union to compare to, and therefore comparisons were made to men's rugby. More data and studies are required to confirm these findings.		[Sewry, Nicola; MacMillan, Candice] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Fac Hlth Sci, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa; [Sewry, Nicola; MacMillan, Candice] IOC Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [Maree, Willie; Readhead, Clint; Cantwell, Lynne] South African Rugby Union, Tygerberg, South Africa; [Readhead, Clint] Univ Cape Town, Hlth Phys Act Lifestyle & Sport HPALS Res Ctr, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme; Swanevelder, Sonja] South African Med Res Council SAMRC, Biostat Res Unit, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] Univ Western Cape, Stat & Populat Studies, Cape Town, South Africa; [Sewry, Nicola] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Fac Hlth Sci, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001289664100001	13	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez, Jose Antonio Dominguez; Garcia, Carolina Sanchez; Sanchez, Veronica Morales; Mendo, Antonio Hernandez; Garrido, Rafael Enrique Reigal								Empowering and disempowering climate generated by coaches is associated with negative coping control and attentional control in football players: The mediating role of self-confidence and competitive anxiety								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2249	2260		10.1177/17479541241269315			DEC 2024	2024	The relationship between motivational climate and psychological sporting abilities could be influenced by levels of competitive anxiety and self-confidence. The purpose of this research was to explore the relationships between empowering and disempowering motivational climates with negative coping control and attentional control, analyzing whether there was an effect of self-confidence and competitive anxiety on these relationships. A total of 328 male adolescents, aged between 14 and 18 years (M = 15.85; SD = 1.44), participated in this research. To collect the information, the Empowering and Disempowering Motivational Climate Questionnaire (EDMCQ-C), the Inventario Psicol & oacute;gico de Ejecuci & oacute;n Deportiva (IPED), and the Revised Competitive State Anxiety Inventory-2 (CSAI-2R) were used. The structural equation model revealed positive and statistically significant associations between empowering motivational climate and self-confidence, between disempowering climate and competitive anxiety, as well as between self-confidence and psychological sporting abilities (negative coping control and attentional control). On the other hand, the analyses highlighted negative relationships between competitive anxiety and negative coping control, as well as attentional control. Furthermore, the model revealed indirect associations between empowering climate and negative coping control, and attentional control through self-confidence, as well as between disempowering climate and negative coping control, and attentional control through competitive anxiety. This information could be valuable for professionals in the field of sports, including coaches, psychologists, athletes, managers, or even individuals close to the athletes such as family members or mentors.		[Gonzalez, Jose Antonio Dominguez; Garcia, Carolina Sanchez; Sanchez, Veronica Morales; Mendo, Antonio Hernandez; Garrido, Rafael Enrique Reigal] Univ Malaga, Dept Social Psychol Social Work Social Serv & Soci, Malaga, Spain; [Garrido, Rafael Enrique Reigal] Teatinos Univ Campus, Fac Psychol, Malaga, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001289668500001	91	Article; Article		
J	Benoit-Piau, Justine; Gaudreault, Nathaly; Masse-Alarie, Hugo; Guptill, Christine; Fortin, Sylvie; Morin, Melanie								Understanding musculoskeletal disorders in dancers: The role of lumbopelvic muscles and movement competency								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				69				91	96		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.07.006			SEP 2024	2024	Objective: To investigate whether transversus abdominis activation (TrA), hip strength, and movement competency are associated with the incidence of musculoskeletal disorder episodes (MDEs) in dancers when controlling for confounding variables. The secondary objectives were to determine if there were differences between professional and preprofessional dancers for the aforementioned factors, as well as to determine if there were differences in TrA activation and hip strength between the dominant and non-dominant sides. Design: Prospective cohort study. Methods: 118 dancers were recruited. The independent variables were collected at the beginning of the dance season: 1) TrA activation, 2) hip strength, and 3) movement competency. To assess the development of MDEs, a weekly electronic diary was used over a 38-week period. MDEs were compiled for each dancer's whole body and subdivided into total musculoskeletal disorder episodes (all body parts) and lower quadrant musculoskeletal disorder episodes (lower limb and lower back). Results: Lower TrA, as well as higher hip abductor and external rotator strength, were associated with a lower incidence of MDEs. TrA activation ((3 = 0.260, p = 0.023) and hip external rotator strength ((3 =-0.537, p = 0.002) could significantly explain 25.4% of the variance of total MDEs, as well as 20.9% of the variance of lower quadrant musculoskeletal disorder episodes ((3 = 0.272, p = 0.016; (3 =-0.459, p = 0.011). No significant associations were found between movement competency and MDEs. Conclusions: Higher hip strength could be a protective factor for MDEs among dancers. Further studies are needed to better understand the involvement of the transversus abdominis in MDEs.		[Benoit-Piau, Justine; Gaudreault, Nathaly; Morin, Melanie] Univ Sherbrooke, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Sherbrooke, PQ, Canada; [Masse-Alarie, Hugo] Univ Laval, Fac Med, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Guptill, Christine] Univ Ottawa, Fac Hlth Sci, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Fortin, Sylvie] Univ Qebec Montreal, Dept Dance, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Morin, Melanie] 3001 12E Ave N, Sherbrooke, PQ J1H 5N4, Canada								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001291916300001	33	Article; Article		
J	Humphreys, Brad R.; Ruseski, Jane E.								Football-Generated Rent Sharing and Expenditures on Women's Intercollegiate Athletics								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	8			919	931		10.1177/15270025241268774			DEC 2024	2024	Recent research contains evidence of rent sharing in intercollegiate athletic programs from revenues generated by football and men's basketball and regulations restricting compensation to athletes. Title IX mandates equal opportunities for male and female college athletes, clearly impacting athletic department budgets. These factors create a rich environment for analyzing athletic spending decisions. We analyze spending on women's sports for about 120 NCAA public FBS athletic departments. Results from instrumental variables models that account for the endogeneity of the rent proxy variable, head football coach salary, indicate the presence of rent sharing from football-generated rents to spending on women's sports.		[Humphreys, Brad R.; Ruseski, Jane E.] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Ruseski, Jane E.] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001285222700001	9	Article; Article		
J	Bodden, James G.; Needham, Robert A.; Chockalingam, Nachiappan								Comparing reach distance between the Y-Balance Test-Lower Quarter and Star Excursion Balance Test: Are practitioners using the correct protocol?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				69				84	90		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.07.007			SEP 2024	2024	Objectives: To compare reach distances between the YBT-LQ and SEBT using the correct protocols as outlined by the developers. This will provide an accurate insight on the actual magnitude differences in reach distance between the movement screen tests and will safeguard practitioners on the subsequent use of these outcomes to inform clinical decision making. Design: Observational. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Participants included sixteen healthy female subjects from the university and amateur sports teams. Main outcome: Reach distances in the anterior direction (ANT), posterior medial (PM) and posterior lateral (PL) between participants on the YBT-LQ and SEBT. Results: The principal findings highlighted that a statistically significantly greater reach distance on the left and right side for the YBT-LQ compared to the SEBT in the ANT, PM, and PL directions (p < 0.0005). Conclusion: The results of this study suggest that the YBT-LQ and SEBT are not comparable tests due to the differences in reach distance and methodological differences. Therefore, previous, and future research using the YBT-LQ and SEBT cannot be used interchangeably. Not following developed guidelines questions the applicability of the findings of reach distance scores to infer on performance and assessment of injury risk.		[Bodden, James G.; Needham, Robert A.; Chockalingam, Nachiappan] Staffordshire Univ, Ctr Biomech & Rehabil Technol, Leek Rd, Stoke On Trent ST4 2DF, England; [Needham, Robert A.] Staffordshire Univ, Ctr Biomech & Rehabil Technol, Sport & Exercise, Leek Rd, Stoke On Trent ST4 2DF, Staffs, England								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001291088300001	56	Article; Article		
J	Jakovacz, Amanda; Serighelli, Fernanda; Miola, Lauana Maria; Kuhn, Guilherme de Conto; de Albuquerque, Carlos Eduardo; de Carvalho, Alberito Rodrigo; Silva, Danilo De Oliveira								Is there a relationship between knee crepitus with quadriceps muscle thickness and strength in individuals with patellofemoral pain? A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				69				76	83		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.08.001			SEP 2024	2024	Objective: To explore the relationship between knee crepitus, quadriceps muscle thickness and isometric strength in individuals with patellofemoral pain (PFP). Design: Cross-sectional. Participants: Individuals with PFP. Main outcome measures: Participants with PFP underwent assessments for presence, frequency and severity of knee crepitus. Real-time ultrasound images of the quadriceps muscles (rectus femoris, vastus medialis and lateralis) at rest and during contraction were obtained, muscle thickness was measured in both conditions. Maximal voluntary isometric contraction tests were performed to measure knee extensor strength. The relationship between knee crepitus and quadriceps muscle thickness and knee extensor strength was explored using logistic and linear regressions. Results: Sixty individuals with PFP were included (age: 24; 60% women; 38% with crepitus). Knee crepitus severity was related to rectus femoris and vastus medialis thickness during rest (R2 = 0.19 and 0.09, respectively) and contraction (R2 = 0.16 and 0.07, respectively) and with vastus lateralis during contraction (R2 = 0.08). Isometric knee extensor strength was not related to knee crepitus presence, frequency, or severity. Conclusion: Higher severity of knee crepitus is related to lower quadriceps muscle thickness in individuals with PFP. There is no relationship between the presence and frequency of knee crepitus with quadriceps muscle thickness or knee extensor strength.		[Jakovacz, Amanda; Miola, Lauana Maria; Kuhn, Guilherme de Conto; de Albuquerque, Carlos Eduardo; de Carvalho, Alberito Rodrigo] State Univ Western Parana UNIOESTE, Integrat Biodynam Lab, Cascavel, Brazil; [Serighelli, Fernanda; Silva, Danilo De Oliveira] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr LASEM, Melbourne, Australia; [Silva, Danilo De Oliveira] La Trobe Univ, Dept Physiotherapy Podiatry Prosthet & Orthot, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Australia; [Silva, Danilo De Oliveira] Plenty RoadKingsbury Dr, Melbourne, VIC 3086, Australia								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001290169700001	43	Article; Article		
J	Schoof, Suzan; Krabben, Kai; Lojanica, Maria B.; Pion, Johan; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.								Multidimensional performance characteristics of talented youth <i>judoka</i>: Dynamic balance and coping skills relate to international competitive performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2489	2500		10.1177/17479541241268497			DEC 2024	2024	Understanding of the multidimensional performance characteristics (MPCs) that underlie performance and distinguish athletes of varying performance levels are key for talent development programs. However, in the Olympic combat sport of judo, including MPCs in talent development research is still a recent approach. Hence, little is known about the MPCs of talented youth judoka. Therefore, this study aimed to determine differences in MPCs of talented youth (U18) judoka with varying levels of success in international competition, specified by sex and corrected for body weight. Fifty-two international level judoka (males: n = 28, age: 16.7 +/- 0.9 and females: n = 24, age: 16.3 +/- 0.9) participated. Multiple linear regressions were performed with performance level as the dependent variable. Performance level was defined as the win rate at international competitions in one competitive season. Anthropometrical (e.g., body height), physiological (e.g., dynamic balance), and psychological (e.g., coping skills) characteristics were used as independent variables. Results showed that win rate of females positively relates to dynamic balance and coping with adversity, and negatively relates to goal setting and mental preparation (R-2 = .611, p < .001). Peaking under pressure positively relates to the win rate of males (R-2 = .152, p < .05). The extent to which MPCs explain competition performance differs between sexes. However, for both sexes, coping skills seem to be important. Therefore, it is recommended that psychological characteristics are integrated in talent programs of youth judoka next to the judo-specific, physiological and/or technical-tactical trainings whilst taking in consideration the individual differences.		[Schoof, Suzan; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.] Univ Groningen, Fac Med Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Schoof, Suzan; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.] Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands; [Krabben, Kai; Lojanica, Maria B.] Judo Bond Nederland, Nieuwegein, Netherlands; [Pion, Johan] HAN Univ Appl Sci, Inst Studies Sports & Exercise, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Pion, Johan] Univ Ghent, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Schoof, Suzan] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001283165500001	80	Article; Article		
J	Burton, Alan M.; Cowburn, Ian; Eisenmann, Joey C.; Sawczuk, Thomas; Watson, Thomas; McDermott, Jack; Till, Kevin								Motor Competence, Physical Fitness, Psychosocial, and Physical Activity Characteristics in 9-to 14-Year-Olds: Sex Differences and Age and Maturity Considerations								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			171	182		10.1080/02701367.2024.2381800			JAN 2 2025	2025	Sex, chronological age, and maturity potentially impact multidimensional health-related characteristics (i.e. motor competence, physical fitness, psychosocial, physical activity), which adds to the challenges of reversing current youth health-related concerns. Previous research fails to optimally assess such characteristics and consider sex, age, and maturity among youth. Therefore, the aims were to 1) present the multidimensional health-related characteristics of 9-14-year-olds from the UK, 2) examine sex differences, and 3) account for the effect of age and maturity on such characteristics. Eighty-one girls (mean age = 12.8 +/- 1.2 years) and 136 boys (mean age = 13.1 +/- 1.2 years) were purposively sampled and assessed across each of the four health-related domains. Multiple ANCOVA analyses examined sex differences among characteristics while accounting for chronological age. Pearson's correlations were used to evaluate the associations between maturity and multidimensional health-related characteristics. Multidimensional health-related characteristics were lower than similar populations and highly variable. Boys outperformed girls on most physical measures (ES = -0.76 to 0.76), elicited greater self-determined motivation (ES = 0.36), greater perceived competence (ES = 0.54), and engaged in more vigorous physical activity (ES = 0.78). Small age effects were present across some characteristics (e.g. isometric mid-thigh pull). Associations between maturity and multidimensional health-related characteristics were different for boys and girls (e.g. maturity offset positively associated with motor competence scores in girls only). Results suggest that multidimensional health-related characteristics of 9- to 14-year-olds are a concern, and are impacted by sex, age, and maturity. Identifying methods to improve multidimensional health-related characteristics which considers sex, age, and maturity are required. Assessing multidimensional health-related characteristics across youth is recommended to inform and measure interventions.		[Burton, Alan M.; Cowburn, Ian; Eisenmann, Joey C.; Sawczuk, Thomas; Watson, Thomas; McDermott, Jack; Till, Kevin] Leeds Beckett Univ, Leeds, England; [Burton, Alan M.] Queen Ethelburgas Collegiate, York, England; [Eisenmann, Joey C.] St Xavier Univ, Antigonish, NS, Canada; [Burton, Alan M.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Ctr Child & Adolescent Phys Literacy, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds LS6 3QS, England								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001281598500001	74	Article; Article		
J	Callegari, Irineu O. M.; Santarem, Pedro S. M.; Arrivabene, Thiago T.; Oliveira, Alexandre G.								Effect of Using Different Intensities in Resistance Training for Muscle Hypertrophy Gains-A Narrative Review								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	4			426	436		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000819			AUG 2024	2024	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. Resistance training or strength training has become one of the most popular forms of exercise, because it is the only method capable of improving physical fitness and increasing muscle mass simultaneously. Among the variables of training, the relationship between intensity and volume has been extensively addressed to enhance exercise-induced muscular hypertrophy. For many, mechanical stress is seen as a factor of greater relevance and, because high loads promote greater mechanical tension and high intensities are traditionally used to increase muscle mass. However, evidence has shown greater safety and similar results through training based on lower intensities and increased training volume. Thus, this narrative review aimed to search the current literature for evidence on using different training loads to promote muscle hypertrophy. An extensive nonsystematic literature review was conducted in the PubMed, Google Scholar and Scielo databases. It was possible to conclude that the use of high and low intensity promotes similar results in muscle hypertrophy in all groups, leading to the belief that there is greater safety and adherence to the use of lower intensities compared with close effort to concentric failure.		[Callegari, Irineu O. M.; Santarem, Pedro S. M.; Arrivabene, Thiago T.; Oliveira, Alexandre G.] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Biosci Inst, Dept Phys Educ, Rio Claro, Brazil; [Oliveira, Alexandre G.] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Biosci Inst, Dept Phys Educ, Rio Claro, Brazil								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001284470800011	56	Article; Article		
J	Worn, Ryan L.; Talpey, Scott W.; Edwards, Toby								Pedal Quadrant-Specific Strength and Conditioning Considerations for Endurance Cyclists								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	4			393	405		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000820			AUG 2024	2024	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. The performance-enhancing effects of strength training on cycling are well documented with findings from research, demonstrating resistance training with heavy loads conducted 2-3 times per week for at least 8 weeks can improve power output (maximal and submaximal), extend time to exhaustion, and reduce completion time for set distances, while not adding to the total body mass. Despite the evident benefits of strength training, there remains a lack of consensus regarding the most effective exercises to enhance endurance cycling. This uncertainty is evident when considering movement-specific exercises to enhance dynamic transfer to cycling. A range of lower-limb exercises involving hip, knee, and ankle flexion and extension seems to enhance cycling performance more so than static or single-joint exercises. These improvements may be attributed to enhanced coordination and improved pedaling technique. This study presents 5 strength training exercises designed to target cycling pedaling quadrants and replicate the unilateral opposing nature of cycling (simultaneous flexion and extension of the legs) to enhance transfer from weight room-based strength training to the bike. These exercises are presented in example programs alongside established "traditional" exercises that may be used to guide the development of strength training for cyclists.		[Worn, Ryan L.; Talpey, Scott W.] Federat Univ Australia, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, Ballarat, Australia; [Edwards, Toby] AusCycling, Adelaide, Australia; [Worn, Ryan L.] Federat Univ Australia, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, Ballarat, Australia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001284470800012	68	Article; Article		
J	Marvin, Graham; Schram, Ben; Orr, Robin; Canetti, Elisa F. D.								Types and Contributors to Occupational Fatigue								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	4			500	509		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000823			AUG 2024	2024	Although fatigue is commonly experienced in many highly demanding occupations (e.g., military, first responders, etc.), it is poorly defined. Fatigue can strongly affect occupational performance by negatively influencing the ability to interact with the world by altering the capacity to think, move, feel, see, and speak. The first step in fatigue risk management strategies is to establish a context. The context of this narrative review is to specifically describe and discuss the 6 overarching types of occupational fatigue: cognitive, physical, burnout, emotional, visual, and vocal fatigue, and how each affects varying occupations. Furthermore, fatigue type can be influenced by several intrinsic factors, such as sleep deprivation, circadian alignment, ultradian process, sleep homeostasis, and health factors. Similarly, extrinsic factors influence fatigue, such as workload, shift work, and environmental issues. Understanding the types and contributors to occupational fatigue may help clarify the context of occupational fatigue and serve to guide future occupational fatigue management.		[Marvin, Graham; Schram, Ben; Orr, Robin; Canetti, Elisa F. D.] Bond Univ, Bond Inst Hlth & Sport, Tact Res Unit, Robina, Qld, Australia; [Marvin, Graham] Bond Univ, Bond Inst Hlth & Sport, Tact Res Unit, Robina, Qld, Australia								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001284470800009	162	Article; Article		
J	Querido, Sergio M.; Radaelli, Regis; Brito, Joao; Vaz, Joao R.; Freitas, Sandro R.								Practical Guidance to Optimize Postmatch Recovery in Elite Male and Female Soccer: A Review								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	4			415	425		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000822			AUG 2024	2024	Several recovery methods have been proposed to optimize postmatch recovery in elite soccer. However, practical guidance for the implementation of recovery methods that somehow confer benefits on the recovery process immediately postmatch (MD), 1 day postmatch (MD + 1), and 2 days postmatch (MD + 2) is lacking. This article aimed to review the existing literature and provide a practical guide for sports scientists, coaches, clinicians, and players concerning implementing the most-used recovery methods after male and female soccer matches. For this purpose, we first presented a general 5-level recovery model that divides the recovery methods according to their relevance in recovery, based on their effectiveness in recovery, frequency of use, and reported detrimental effects. In addition, practical recommendations were provided for implementing each recovery method following two days post-match according to the recovery of various parameters (i.e., physical, physiologic, and perceptual) and physiologic and psychosocial assumptions. It was concluded that the application of recovery methods should be prioritized, periodized, and individualized over the recovery period postmatch. In addition, some recovery methods with limited effectiveness in postmatch recovery should be recommended based on physiologic assumptions and potential psychosocial benefits.		[Querido, Sergio M.; Radaelli, Regis; Vaz, Joao R.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, CIPER, Cruz Quebrada Dafundo, Portugal; [Radaelli, Regis; Vaz, Joao R.] Interdisciplinary Res Ctr Egas Moniz CiiEM, Egas Moniz Sch Hlth & Sci, Monte De Caparica, Portugal; [Brito, Joao] Portugal Football Sch, Portuguese Football Federat, Oeiras, Portugal; [Freitas, Sandro R.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Neuromuscular Res Lab, Cruz Quebrada Dafundo, Portugal; [Freitas, Sandro R.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Neuromuscular Res Lab, Cruz Quebrada Dafundo, Portugal								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001284470800004	105	Article; Article		
J	Jordan, Matthew J.; Bishop, Chris								Testing Limb Symmetry and Asymmetry After Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury: 4 Considerations to Increase Its Utility								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	4			406	414		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000821			AUG 2024	2024	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury occurs frequently in sport and surgical reconstruction is often recommended to restore knee joint stability. To guide rehabilitation and determine return to sport readiness, practitioners have used a long-standing practice of calculating the limb symmetry index (LSI) in various functional, biomechanical, and strength tests to compare the injured limb with the noninjured contralateral limb. However, the evidence in support of the LSI calculation to quantify rehabilitation status and return to sport readiness is mixed. We synthesize scientific literature on the LSI calculation and discuss potential reasons for the mixed evidence and limitations. We present 4 considerations to improve the utility of the LSI calculation including (a): the importance of establishing the right benchmark of recovery such as the preinjury contralateral limb or a sport-specific noninjured control benchmark; (b) strategies to manage the high variation in movement asymmetry calculations and the importance of quantifying the intrasubject variability for the component parts of the LSI; (c) the evidence for assessing the movement strategy alongside performance when using the LSI; and (d) how a sport-specific envelope of function can be used to inform post-ACL injury testing that incorporates the LSI.		[Jordan, Matthew J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Integrat Neuromuscular Sport Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Jordan, Matthew J.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, Australia; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001284470800008	55	Article; Article		
J	Cusimano, Kurtis; Freeman, Paul; Pawaar, Josh; Moran, Jason								The Effects of Psyching-Up on Maximal Force Production: A Systematic Review								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	4			468	484		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000830			AUG 2024	2024	A comprehensive examination of psyching-up strategies before maximal force production is imperative to examine the efficacy of psyching-up, identify beneficial strategies for practitioners, and direct future investigations. The aim of this systematic review was to examine the efficacy of psyching-up strategies on maximal force production. The systematic review followed PRISMA guidelines. A systematic search was conducted in SPORTDiscus, PsychINFO, PsychARTICLES, MEDLINE, Google Scholar, and Web of Science. Studies were included if they used an experimental design, sampled adults, the independent variable included a psyching-up strategy that matched the working definition, and measured maximal force production measure. Twenty-seven independent studies met the inclusion criteria for this review. Collectively, 65% of the trials found that psyching-up facilitates maximal force production. Free-choice psyching-up, motivational self-talk, PETTLEP imagery, and prescribed preparatory arousal consistently enhanced performance. There was also evidence that disparity in the results may be because of the competitive experience of the participants and the type of control condition. The findings suggest that free-choice psyching-up, motivational self-talk, PETTLEP imagery, and prescribed preparatory arousal may enhance maximal force production. Future research should recruit experienced athletes to identify and test the efficacy of strategies used by applied practitioners.		[Cusimano, Kurtis; Freeman, Paul; Moran, Jason] Univ Essex, Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester Campus, Colchester, England; [Pawaar, Josh] Univ Exeter, Psychol, Washington Singer Bldg, Exeter, England; [Cusimano, Kurtis] Univ Essex, Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester Campus, Colchester, England								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001284470800002	66	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.; Dawes, J. Jay								High-Performance Programs for First Responders: Considerations and Potential Benefits of Implementation								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	4			447	453		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000812			AUG 2024	2024	In recent years, tactical personnel, especially within the military, have integrated sports science-related practices into their training. This effort has been less pronounced with first responders (police, firefighters, emergency services), despite the structured academy training typically completed by recruits, challenging job tasks and long-term health, fitness, and wellness concerns. One example of how sports science practices could be applied for first responders is through high-performance programs. High-performance programs are commonplace within elite sport and can help set roadmaps for success. Numerous factors contribute to an effective program, much of which relates to the resources provided to personnel. This can include a multidisciplinary team (e.g., strength and conditioning coaches, athletic trainers/medical staff, psychologists, nutritionists, researchers) and appropriate resources (e.g., gyms, facilities, testing and training equipment). This review will discuss whether high-performance programs, or at least components of these programs, could be adopted in first-responder populations. The authors will discuss literature to demonstrate how and why high-performance programs could be implemented for first responders and whether these programs are aspirational, attainable, or objectionable. Finally, the authors will provide actionable high-performance program-related information for the strength and conditioning coach and tactical scientist working with first responders.		[Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Dawes, J. Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK USA; [Dawes, J. Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Tact Fitness & Nutr Lab, Stillwater, OK USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001284470800007	84	Article; Article		
J	Lapre, Michael A.; Palazzolo, Elizabeth M.								Does Draft Currency Promote Competitive Balance? An Empirical Investigation of the National Football League 2002-2021								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	7			779	801		10.1177/15270025241264238			OCT 2024	2024	In the National Football League (NFL) annual draft, teams take turns selecting entering players. The draft is a market mechanism designed to promote competitive balance as the NFL assigns draft positions to teams in reverse order relative to last season's performance. Teams frequently trade draft picks for other picks and/or players. We use several market valuations of draft picks to define original draft currency as the total value of draft picks available before any trades and final draft currency as the total value of picks used after all trades. For the 2002-2021 period, we find that original draft currency does not affect the probability of reaching the playoffs, but final draft currency does. Usage of outdated market valuations of draft picks by most teams can help explain how the best team has used draft-pick trades to remain among the strongest teams over two decades thereby perpetuating competitive imbalance.		[Lapre, Michael A.] Vanderbilt Univ, Owen Grad Sch Management, 401 21st Ave South, Nashville, TN 37203 USA; [Palazzolo, Elizabeth M.] Lazard, New York, NY USA; [Lapre, Michael A.] Vanderbilt Univ, Owen Grad Sch Management, 401 21st Ave South, Nashville, TN 37203 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001284871300001	27	Article; Article		
J	Bizen, Yoshifumi; Tsuji, Yosuke								The effect of athlete endorsement on employees' organizational identification: a case study utilizing an Olympic athlete								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1185	1202		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2024-0070			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeThis study aims to investigate the effects of sponsorship on organizational identification among employees of companies that sponsor individual athletes from the perspective of internal marketing.Design/methodology/approachAn online survey was conducted in July 2021 targeting employees of Company A. Specifically, employees were invited to participate via email notifications sent through the company's intranet. To clarify the impact of company sponsorships for individual athletes on employee organizational identification, this study focused on the relationship between Company A and an athlete they support. Psychometric scales were used to measure the factors of the hypothetical model, such as sponsor fit and attitudes toward sponsorship. The analysis was conducted using IBM SPSS 28.0 and AMOS 25 Graphics, and the hypotheses were tested using structural equation modeling.FindingsWe collected a total of 365 survey responses in two weeks. All the hypotheses in this study were supported, indicating that athlete identification and brand knowledge had a significant positive effect on perceived sponsor fit. In addition, attitudes toward the employer significantly have positive relationships with brand commitment and organizational identification. This study showed that perceived sponsor fit plays an important role in employee perceptions of sponsorship. Athlete endorsement is effective from an internal marketing perspective.Research limitations/implicationsThe limitation of this study is the selection of the research subject. Conducting the same survey targeting individual athletes with different characteristics may lead to discoveries about the impact of corporate sponsorship on employee organizational identification.Practical implicationsThe practical implication of this study is that business executives should also use sponsorship for individual athletes as a means to unify and motivate their employees. In selecting athletes for sponsorship, it is necessary to select individuals who fit the company image. In this process, listening to employees' opinions may help select the most suitable athlete who matches the company's image.Originality/valueMany studies conducted on sports sponsorship have focused on the impact on potential customers, from external marketing. Even in studies examining the effects of sports sponsorship on employees, the sponsored subjects are typically teams or events. Therefore, the originality of this study lies in examining the impact of athlete endorsement on the company's employees from the perspective of internal marketing.		[Bizen, Yoshifumi] Kokugakuin Univ, Fac Human Dev, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Yokohama, Japan; [Tsuji, Yosuke] Rikkyo Univ, Coll Business, Dept Global Business, Tokyo, Japan; [Bizen, Yoshifumi] Kokugakuin Univ, Fac Human Dev, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Yokohama, Japan								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001278986300001	99	Article; Article		
J	Tissera, Kevin; Shorter, Kathleen A.; Huynh, Minh; Benson, Amanda C.								Reliability and validity of the fulltrack AI application to determine cricket bowling line and length compared to 3D motion capture								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	1			105	121		10.1080/14763141.2024.2381108			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study examined reliability and validity of the Fulltrack AI application to identify cricket ball landing position (line, length). Nine hundred and thirty-two deliveries were compared to 3D motion capture, the criterion measure, with 836 included in analysis (516 bowled (pace = 420, spin = 96), 320 Sidearm (TM); 301 facing a batter). Agreement analysis indicated an intraclass correlation coefficient of >0.96 for raw and filter 3D line and length data, compared to Fulltrack AI. The coefficient of variation was acceptable for length (<10%) and larger for line (23.82%), albeit with a smaller standard error of measurement (SEM = 0.05 m), improving with outliers removed. Bland-Altman plots confirmed good statistical agreement between devices, with limits of agreement largely within maximal allowable difference values. There are potential practical application considerations, given SEM = 0.47 m for length (diameter of seven cricket balls); with greater variability detecting length closer to the batters-end, and line closer to the bowlers-end. Validity, using a generalised additive model, showed no significant differences between devices (p > 0.05), with no condition-based interaction effects. The Fulltrack AI application enables ecologically valid assessment of bowling performance. Considering the trade-off between this and the accuracy of information is warranted when deciding how best to apply it to coaching environments to support augmented feedback.		[Tissera, Kevin; Benson, Amanda C.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth Sci & Biostat, Melbourne, Australia; [Tissera, Kevin; Benson, Amanda C.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sport Innovat Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Shorter, Kathleen A.] Univ South Australia, Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide, Australia; [Huynh, Minh] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Australia; [Tissera, Kevin] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth Sci & Biostat, Melbourne, Australia; [Tissera, Kevin] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sport Innovat Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001282280300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Sudo, Yusuke; Kawamoto, Yuta; Iino, Yoichi; Yoshioka, Shinsuke								Mechanisms of speed-accuracy trade-off in tennis topspin forehand of college players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	1			83	104		10.1080/14763141.2024.2381105			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the speed-accuracy relationship in a tennis topspin single-handed forehand groundstroke. Groundstrokes at three different speeds by nine college players were captured, with the variability of the ball landing position evaluated as indices of accuracy. Variabilities of ball launch variables (speed, launch angle, spin, etc.) and conversion ratios from these variabilities to the variability of the ball landing position were quantified. These variabilities and their conversion ratios could be influenced by different efforts exerted to generate ball speeds and different ball trajectories required to hit a target at each speed, respectively. The speed-accuracy trade-off was observed only in the hitting direction. While the variability of the spin axis increased, it had minimal influence on the ball landing position. Conversely, the conversion ratio in the hitting direction of the velocity elevation angle significantly increased, while its variability remained unchanged. Consequently, the geometrical requirements of ball trajectories can be responsible for the speed-accuracy trade-off. Therefore, even skilled players capable of maintaining consistent ball launch variables regardless of the shot speed should deliberately choose a moderately slower ball speed to avoid an inevitable increase in the variability of the ball landing position due to geometrical requirements.		[Sudo, Yusuke] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Frontier Sci, Kashiwa, Japan; [Sudo, Yusuke; Kawamoto, Yuta; Iino, Yoichi; Yoshioka, Shinsuke] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Meguro Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Sudo, Yusuke] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Human Augmentat Res Ctr, Kashiwa, Japan; [Sudo, Yusuke] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Sudo, Yusuke] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Frontier Sci, Kashiwa, Japan; [Sudo, Yusuke] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Meguro Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Sudo, Yusuke] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Human Augmentat Res Ctr, Kashiwa, Japan; [Sudo, Yusuke] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001280453100001	35	Article; Article		
J	Ross, Jeremy A.; Jelmini, Jacob D.; Leary, Brian K.; Hoch, Matthew C.; Heebner, Nicholas R.								Kinetic and Kinematic Aspects of the Vertical Jump Related to Overreaching: A Systematic Review								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	4			454	467		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000825			AUG 2024	2024	Extended overreaching without recovery carries risks of nonfunctional overreaching and overtraining. Coaches mitigate these risks by screening for overreaching, often using jump testing; however, many are uncertain about which jump variables to measure. A systematic review was conducted to identify jumping kinetic and kinematic variables associated with heightened training stress. Manuscripts were included if they monitored overreaching in healthy, adult athletes at National Level or above using an unloaded vertical jump test; and excluded if they did not report measured kinetic/kinematic variables, did not include sufficient data to calculate effect sizes (ES) and confidence intervals (95% CI) or were not available in English. Fourteen manuscripts met inclusion/exclusion criteria. Most studies had a low (71.4%) or moderate (21.4%) risk of bias. Twenty-nine unique outcome measures were reported with 11 reported in multiple studies. The most reported measures were the ratio of flight time to contraction time (15 ES reported), jump height (JH, 12 ES), mean power (7 ES), peak power (PP, 7 ES), mean velocity (5 ES), and peak force (PF, 5 ES). PP, PF, and JH demonstrated the most consistent negative alterations. Coaches should consider metrics that include changes in jump strategy alongside JH in jump screening. See Video 1-Video Abstract-http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A408.		[Ross, Jeremy A.; Jelmini, Jacob D.; Hoch, Matthew C.; Heebner, Nicholas R.] Univ Kentucky, Sports Med Res Inst, Lexington, KY 40506 USA; [Leary, Brian K.] West Virginia Univ, Div Exercise Physiol, Morgantown, WV USA; [Ross, Jeremy A.] Univ Kentucky, Sports Med Res Inst, Lexington, KY 40506 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001284470800003	51	Article; Article		
J	Arlettaz, Maximiliano Ezequiel; Dorsch, Lucas Nahuel; Catalfamo-Formento, Paola Andrea Lucia								Landing error scoring system: A scoping review about variants, reference values and differences according to sex and sport								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				69				67	75		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.07.005			SEP 2024	2024	Objective: The Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) is a movement analysis tool proposed to identify the risk of anterior cruciate ligament injuries, very useful for injury prevention. The aim of this study is to review the variants of the LESS, their normative scores and the differences according to sex and sport practiced. Methods: PubMed, Scopus and ScienceDirect databases were searched from inception to October 19, 2023. Studies were eligible if the objective was finding normative or reference scores for the LESS, analyze the differences between sexes or sports, or used some variant of the test. Results were limited to available full-text articles published in English in peer-reviewed journals. Results: Of the 360 articles identified, 20 were included for a full analysis (18,093 participants, age = 8-30 years, males = 70.6%). The military population was the most frequently analyzed (7 studies, n = 16,603). Results showed six variants of the LESS and average values ranged from 2.56 to 7.1. Males and females showed different pattern landing with errors in different planes. Conclusions: Our findings highlight the need for more field studies on LESS reference scores, particularly for females and basketball or hockey players. Further research is required before conducting a systematic review and meta-analysis.		[Arlettaz, Maximiliano Ezequiel; Dorsch, Lucas Nahuel] Natl Univ Entre Rios, Entre Rios, Argentina; [Catalfamo-Formento, Paola Andrea Lucia] Univ Nacl Entre Rios, Sch Engn, Human Movement Res Lab, Entre Rios, Argentina; [Arlettaz, Maximiliano Ezequiel; Dorsch, Lucas Nahuel; Catalfamo-Formento, Paola Andrea Lucia] Consejo Nacl Invest Cient & Tecn, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Arlettaz, Maximiliano Ezequiel] Arrieta 366 Villaguay, RA-3240 Entre Rios, Argentina								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001286368700001	77	Article; Article		
J	Batista, Natanael P.; Rachid, Zuleiha I.; Silva, Danilo De Oliveira; Glaviano, Neal R.; Norte, Grant E.; Bazett-Jones, David M.								Reliability and validity of belt-stabilized and tension dynamometry for assessing hip strength and power in uninjured adults								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				69				59	66		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.07.004			SEP 2024	2024	Objectives: To investigate the intra-rater reliability and validity of belt-stabilized and tension dynamometry to assess hip muscle strength and power. Design: Repeated measures. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Seventeen uninjured adults (age = 22.0 +/- 2.3y; 13 females). Main outcomes measures: Peak torque (strength) and rate of torque development (RTD; power) were measured for hip abduction, internal rotation, external rotation and extension using an isokinetic dynamometer, and belt- stabilized and tension dynamometry. Results: For peak torque assessment, belt-stabilized and tension dynamometry showed good (Intraclass Correlation Coefficient [ICC] = 0.848-0.899) and good-to-excellent (ICC = 0.848-0.942) reliability, respectively. For RTD, belt-stabilized dynamometry showed fair reliability for abduction (ICC = 0.524) and good reliability for hip internal rotation, external rotation, and extension (ICC = 0.702-0.899). Tension dynamometry showed good reliability for all motions when measuring RTD (ICC = 0.737-0.897). Compared to isokinetic dynamometry, belt- stabilized and tension dynamometry showed good-to-excellent correlations for peak torque assessment (r = 0.503-0.870), and fair-to-good correlations for RTD (r = 0.438-0.674). Bland-Altman analysis showed that measures from belt-stabilized and tension dynamometry had clinically meaningful disagreement with isokinetic dynamometry. Conclusion: Tension dynamometry is reliable for assessing hip strength and power in all assessed motions. Belt- stabilized dynamometry is reliable for assessing internal rotation, external rotation, and extension. Validity of both methods is questionable, considering the lack of agreement with isokinetic dynamometry.		[Batista, Natanael P.; Rachid, Zuleiha I.; Bazett-Jones, David M.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Hlth & Human Serv, Mail Stop 1199,201 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Silva, Danilo De Oliveira] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Silva, Danilo De Oliveira] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Discipline Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Norte, Grant E.] Univ Cent Florida, Inst Exercise Physiol & Rehabil Sci, Orlando, FL USA; [Bazett-Jones, David M.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Hlth & Human Serv, Mail Stop 1199,201 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001286756500001	41	Article; Article		
J	Fortunato, John A.; Kosterich, Allie								Demonstrating and communicating artificial intelligence brand capabilities: Amazon Web Services sponsorship with the National Football League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	4			786	802		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2024-0065			DEC 2 2025	2025	PurposeAs artificial intelligence (AI) continues to influence sports league and team operations, the brands providing these services are sponsoring sports properties to demonstrate and communicate their performance capabilities. This article examines Amazon Web Services (AWS) sponsorship with the National Football League (NFL). This sponsorship features functional congruence, which is when a sponsor has a participatory role in performing services for the property.Design/methodology/approachThe AWS sponsorship with the NFL is captured by examining specially created websites, in-game sponsored elements, and television commercials aired during the broadcast of NFL games. The AWS website focuses on the services profiled in this article.FindingsAWS provides the NFL with performance-based (on-the-field) and business-based (off-the-field) services. Of particular note, AWS capabilities help the NFL create the game schedule and address the issue of player health and safety. Demonstrating functional congruence appears to be especially valuable in business-to-business marketing where purchase decisions are more focused on brand reliability. AWS television commercials feature the tagline, "if AWS can do this for the NFL, imagine what it can do for your business."Originality/valueWith the role of AI in sports in its relative infancy, it is imperative to document what services AI brands are performing for a professional sports league. Examining AWS sponsorship with the NFL provides a timely, practical example of how an AI brand communicates and positions itself using sponsorship as a marketing strategy.		[Fortunato, John A.; Kosterich, Allie] Fordham Univ, Gabelli Sch Business, New York, NY 10458 USA; [Fortunato, John A.] Fordham Univ, Gabelli Sch Business, New York, NY 10458 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001276380200001	53	Article; Article		
J	Philipp, Nicolas M.; Nijem, Ramsey M.; Blackburn, Stryder D.; Cabarkapa, Dimitrije; Scott, Chelsi; Fry, Andrew C.								Considerations for vertical jump testing in collegiate basketball players: The impact of immediate individual versus social comparison feedback and team leaderboard engagement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2513	2520		10.1177/17479541241266192			DEC 2024	2024	Recent literature has shown that the provision of feedback can enhance vertical jump performance acutely, as well as chronically when implemented during phases of training. The aim of our study was to investigate the influence of two types of visual feedback on performance and variability of countermovement jump-derived force-time characteristics in a cohort of male and female National Collegiate Athletic Association Division 1 basketball players. Specifically, individual visual feedback (IVF) was compared to a form of social comparison feedback (SCF), and authors hypothesized there to be performance increases and more stable measures in the SCF condition. In line with this hypothesis, findings suggested significantly enhanced performance in the SCF condition for seven out of eight force-time metrics (e.g. jump height and reactive strength index modified). However, given the small between-condition effect sizes, differences between conditions may lack practical significance. Furthermore, findings suggested less between-jump variability in the SCF condition, compared to the IVF condition, making for a more stable assessment. This in particular makes for more reliable measures, for which when studied over time, more subtle changes in performance may be observed. In summary, our findings highlight acutely enhanced vertical jump performance, and more stable measures, when athletes are exposed to an SCF condition, compared to a normal IVF condition. Practitioners are encouraged to consider these findings when planning vertical jump assessments and are discouraged from implementing different types of feedback at random, especially when measuring performance over time.		[Philipp, Nicolas M.; Nijem, Ramsey M.; Blackburn, Stryder D.; Cabarkapa, Dimitrije; Scott, Chelsi; Fry, Andrew C.] Univ Kansas, Jayhawk Athlet Performance Lab, Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA; [Philipp, Nicolas M.] Univ Kansas, Jayhawk Athlet Performance Lab, Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001279857100001	28	Article; Article		
J	Allen, Justine B.; Reid, Colleen; Macdonald, Stephen								'It's about putting the learning into context': A multimethod, multiple perspective exploration of the process of learning in introductory coach education								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2286	2296		10.1177/17479541241263178			DEC 2024	2024	Coach education continues to be an integral part of coaches' learning journey, but their usefulness has also been questioned. Given the disparity in research findings, the purpose of this study was to further our understanding of the role of the coach developer in the learning process within introductory level coach education courses. Drawing on Moon's stages of learning and using multiple methods (observation, interviews, focus groups), we explored multiple perspectives (coaches, coach developers and researcher observer) of the activities and learning situations within introductory courses (judo, basketball, paddlesports). In total, three courses were observed, each lasting two days (48 hours of observation), six coach developers participated in an interview (45-60 minutes each) and 18 coaches participated in one of five focus groups (20-300 minutes each). Through our thematic analysis, we developed three themes: structure supports the learning process; National Governing Body resources are just a starting point for learning; a deep approach to learning can be facilitated. Our findings suggest that despite criticisms of large-scale approaches to coach education, they were useful to coaches and coach developers were able to facilitate some deep learning. Furthermore, the quality of coach education programmes was largely dependent on the expertise of coach developers in their roles. Questions are raised about the conceptualisation of learner-centred approaches to coach education delivery.		[Allen, Justine B.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Northumberland Bldg 228, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, England; [Reid, Colleen] Scottish Hockey, Glasgow, Scotland; [Macdonald, Stephen] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Stirling, Scotland; [Allen, Justine B.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Northumberland Bldg 228, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001278058800001	36	Article; Article		
J	Stanger, Nicholas; Kaiseler, Mariana; Williams, Toni L.								Linking pre-performance stress appraisals with emotions in sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2388	2396		10.1177/17479541241259726			DEC 2024	2024	Although research has investigated how appraisals are linked with categories of emotions (e.g. pleasant and unpleasant emotions) in sport, research into how stress appraisal components are associated with specific discrete emotions commonly experienced in sport has received scant attention. This study examined how pre-performance stress appraisals were related to pre-performance anger, anxiety, dejection, excitement, and happiness. Athletes (N = 458) completed measures of pre-performance stress appraisals and emotions in relation to their latest competitive performance. Path analyses revealed challenge appraisal was positively linked to pleasant emotions, and threat appraisal with unpleasant emotions. Specific emotions also possessed discrete links with appraisal components. For example, uncontrollable-by-anyone appraisal was positively linked with anger and dejection but inversely linked with anxiety. Moreover, controllable-by-others appraisal was positively associated, and controllable-by-self appraisal was negatively associated, with anxiety. Excitement and happiness were similarly related with appraisal components. However, controllable-by-self appraisal was positively and more strongly associated with excitement, whereas controllable-by-others appraisal was also positively and directly linked with happiness. These findings highlight how stress appraisals are linked with common emotions in sport and offer applied implications for coaches, sport psychologists and athletes regarding ways that could help regulate pre-performance emotions in sport.		[Stanger, Nicholas; Kaiseler, Mariana; Williams, Toni L.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus,Fairfax Hall, Leeds LS6 3QS, England; [Kaiseler, Mariana] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Williams, Toni L.] Univ Durham, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Durham, England; [Stanger, Nicholas] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus,Fairfax Hall, Leeds LS6 3QS, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001275822400001	30	Article; Article		
J	Schlimm, Joern; Mereu, Sebastiano; Breuer, Christoph								Why do consumers buy sports NFTs? - decoding consumer values and needs driving purchase intention								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1163	1184		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2024-0097			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeOver the past years, non-fungible tokens (NFTs) have sparked growing interest in the sport industry. NFTs are unique digital assets verified using blockchain technology. Each NFT has a distinct identifier that sets it apart from other tokens, documenting its uniqueness and ownership. NFTs promise innovative growth opportunities by generating revenue via novel products such as digital collectibles which can be owned and traded on dedicated platforms. Despite this promising outlook, it currently seems unclear how sports NFTs should be designed and which features they should offer to align with consumer values, effectively meet their needs and ultimately drive Purchase Intention. This study will therefore attempt to answer the following research question: Which consumer values and consumer needs have a positive impact on PI of sports NFTs? Based on the results, the study seeks to offer advice on concrete characteristics sports NFTs should possess in order to foster mainstream adoption.Design/methodology/approachTo address the current gap in the literature and provide an answer to the research question, this paper uses structural equation modelling exploring the impact of consumer values and consumer needs or wants on purchase intention regarding sports NFTs.FindingsThe results of this study indicate that social needs or wants (SNW) have the strongest impact on purchase intention, as well as on experiential and functional needs or wants. NFTs should therefore possess characteristics that foster community, interaction and connection with other team or athlete supporters while enhancing the overall consumer experience. Incorporating these elements into future NFTs can help sports organizations tap into the social SNW of consumers by providing opportunities for connection, interaction and collective experiences within supporter communities.Research limitations/implicationsDue to the low response rate of Baby Boomers, the results of the study cannot be applied to this cohort. Additional research, potentially using physical in-stadium surveys and targeted specifically at the BB cohort may shed light on their particular values, needs or wants and impact on sports NFT purchase intention. Moreover, Generation Z respondents may statistically be underrepresented in the sample due to the fact that only respondents aged 18 and older were included in the study. Hence, the part of Generation Z, which was born after March 2006 and had not yet come of age at the time of this research, was explicitly excluded from the survey. Results should be applied carefully to the population of sports team or athlete supporters due to the method of data collection which was based on convenience sampling and may therefore not be representative. Since the survey was exclusively administered online, people with no Internet access are not represented in this research.Practical implicationsSports organizations and marketers can leverage the strong impact of SNW identified in this study to position their NFT portfolio accordingly. Using athletes themselves or other influencers as product ambassadors may trigger purchase intention of consumers. Additionally, it is crucial that socializing agents, such as family, friends, colleagues and other team supporters with a strong influence on consumers own or promote NFTs. Marketers can support this adoption process by encouraging testimonials, reviews and user-generated content that showcase how NFTs have positively impacted others. Reaching a critical mass of adoption among supporters as a first step will ultimately impact consumers' desire to satisfy ENW and FNW as well. Consumers may then recognize the benefits of using NFTs to enhance their overall consumer experience and to make their lives easier, for instance by using NFTs as season tickets or to collect loyalty points they can redeem later.Originality/valueThis study is the first attempt to determine the relationship between consumer values, consumers' needs or wants and their impact on purchase intention regarding sports NFTs.		[Schlimm, Joern; Breuer, Christoph] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Mereu, Sebastiano] Sports Business Res Acad, Zurich, Switzerland; [Schlimm, Joern] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001274447500001	55	Article; Article		
J	Coden, Gloria; Akamefula, Ramesses Abeja; Watters, Amanda; Ierulli, Victoria; Mulcahey, Mary K.								Medical advisability of softball youth pitching recommendations on the internet								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			36	41		10.1080/00913847.2024.2381474			JAN 2 2025	2025	Objective: Developing softball pitchers are prone to injury due to the repetitive throwing motion. Many children and parents use the internet as a source of medical advice, but this information may not always be aligned with medical guidelines. The purpose of this study was to assess the medical advisability of injury prevention guidelines for developing softball pitchers on websites using Google as the primary search engine. Methods: The first 100 websites populated from a Google search using the term softball youth pitching recommendations were evaluated. Each website was categorized as discussing baseball, softball, or both, and as athletic, commercial, or educational. For every website, 16 recommendations described by the American Orthopaedic Society for Sports Medicine (AOSSM) Stop Sports Injuries softball injury prevention guidelines (Table 1) were scored as in agreement (+1), different guideline mentioned (0.5), no mention (0), or discordant (-1). Results: Of the 98 qualifying websites, 57 advised only about softball, while 19 advised about both baseball and softball. Fifty websites had no mention of any recommendation outlined by AOSSM. Websites that were mostly in agreement with AOSSM were educational websites (mean score = 3.9, p = 0.02), websites discussing only softball (mean score = 2.0, p = 0.02), and the first 50 websites (mean score = 2.2, p = 0.04). The most common discordant guideline was differing opinions in pitch count (13 websites).<br /> Conclusion: The most common category in disagreement with AOSSM was different pitch count guidelines, highlighting a need for websites to provide more consistent information using high-quality resources. Educational websites, websites discussing only softball, and the first 50 websites had the highest scores, indicating that these types of websites are most likely to have the highest amount of medically advisable information. We recommend users conduct targeted Google searches on reliable websites for information on pitching softball recommendations to maximize the validity of Google search results.		[Coden, Gloria] New England Baptist Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA USA; [Akamefula, Ramesses Abeja; Watters, Amanda; Ierulli, Victoria] Tulane Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New Orleans, LA USA; [Mulcahey, Mary K.] Loyola Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, 2160 S First Ave,Maguire Bldg,Suite 1700, Maywood, IL 60153 USA; [Mulcahey, Mary K.] Loyola Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, 2160 S First Ave,Maguire Bldg,Suite 1700, Maywood, IL 60153 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001274127100001	21	Article; Article		
J	van Ours, Jan C.								Nontransitive Patterns in Long-Term Football Rivalries								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	7			802	826		10.1177/15270025241264235			OCT 2024	2024	The phenomenon of nontransitivity in outcomes, typically observed in noneffort games with predetermined probabilities and immediate clarity, extends to team-based, time-consuming games requiring effort that unfold over a long period of time. This study explores this aspect through an empirical analysis of professional football matches in the Netherlands involving three prominent teams: Feyenoord, Ajax, and PSV. Contrary to conventional expectations, the results reveal a nontransitive pattern over more than three decades, indicating that Feyenoord is more likely to triumph over PSV, PSV over Ajax, and Ajax over Feyenoord than the reverse scenarios.		[van Ours, Jan C.] Erasmus Univ, Erasmus Sch Econ, Burg Oudlaan 50, NL-3062 PA Rotterdam, Netherlands; [van Ours, Jan C.] Erasmus Univ, Erasmus Sch Econ, Burg Oudlaan 50, NL-3062 PA Rotterdam, Netherlands								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001275126200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Schulz, Luc; Keller-Meier, Romano; Lang, Grazia; Nagel, Siegfried; Stieger, Raphael; Schlesinger, Torsten								Toward the professionalization of sponsorship management in voluntary sports clubs: a comprehensive analysis of components and their specifications								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1126	1146		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2024-0023			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeMany voluntary sports clubs face financial difficulties and consequently turn to external funding sources. Recent developments suggest that sports clubs have been successful in significantly increasing sponsorship income by professionalizing their sponsorship activities. However, not much is known about how voluntary sports clubs professionalize their sponsorship management (e.g. sponsorship staff). This study seeks to gain a deeper understanding of the components addressed and the practices used by voluntary sports clubs to professionalize their sponsorship.Design/methodology/approachAn exploratory case study was conducted to gain in-depth insights into voluntary sports clubs' organizational developments in the context of sponsorship management. Data were collected from six sports clubs through document analyses and problem-centered interviews with decision makers. The data were analyzed using a qualitative content analysis approach, which included both deductive and complementary inductive coding of the data.FindingsThe results show that the components addressed in the professionalization of sponsorship management are reflected in three dimensions: "people and positions" (e.g. sponsorship staff), "structures and processes" (e.g. differentiation of responsibilities), and "strategies and activities" (e.g. sponsorship rights orientation). It was also found that clubs, which have diverse characteristics and levels of professionalization, pursue distinct approaches.Originality/valueIn contrast to studies on professional sports organizations that focus primarily on the sponsor's perspective, this study sheds light on sponsorship management in sports clubs in the non-profit sector. The findings can help voluntary sports clubs to transform their sponsorship management strategically and increase sponsorship income in the long term.		[Schulz, Luc; Schlesinger, Torsten] Tech Univ Chemnitz, Inst Human Movement Sci, Chemnitz, Germany; [Keller-Meier, Romano; Lang, Grazia; Nagel, Siegfried; Stieger, Raphael] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland; [Schulz, Luc] Tech Univ Chemnitz, Inst Human Movement Sci, Chemnitz, Germany								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001271847600001	57	Article; Article		
J	Tsukahara, Yuka; Kuribayashi, Chisato; Akiyama, Erika								Influence of Body Weight Measurement Frequency on the Bone Health of Female Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			164	170		10.1080/02701367.2024.2378850			JAN 2 2025	2025	Purpose: Athletes struggle with bone stress injuries despite the many risk factors reported in previous studies. However, the relationship between body weight measurement frequency and risk of stress fractures has yet to be investigated. Thus, the purpose of this study is to seek the link between body weight measurement frequency and the occurrence of stress fractures. Method: This cross-sectional study included female athletes who were requested to fill out an anonymous online survey regarding their personal background, including the history of amenorrhea and stress fractures. In addition, the frequency at which they measured their body weight and composition and whether they had to report the same to their coaches and seniors were asked. Results: A total of 172 collegiate female athletes for 28 different types of sports participated in this study. Among the included athletes, 35.7% had a history of amenorrhea, whereas 29.7% had a history of stress fractures. A total of 57.0% of the athletes answered that in their team, they measure their body weight on a regular basis, and 33.1% of the athletes answered that they reported the data to their coaches. Logistic regression analysis revealed that those who measured their body weight at least once a day had a higher risk of sustaining stress fractures than did those who measured their body weight less than once a day (OR = 2.36, 95% CI 1.06-5.27, p = .04). Conclusion: Body weight measurement frequency was associated with the risk of stress fractures in female collegiate athletes.		[Tsukahara, Yuka; Kuribayashi, Chisato; Akiyama, Erika] Tokyo Womens Coll Phys Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Tsukahara, Yuka] Tokyo Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ, 4-30-1 Fujimidai, Kunitachi, Tokyo 1868668, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001271391900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Ruichen; Song, Hemin								The spillover effect of Chinese sportswear brands' relationship quality: a perspective of Confucian yuanfen culture								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1105	1125		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2024-0049			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeChinese consumers' brand preferences are shifting from foreign sportswear brands to domestic ones. This indicates an increasingly strong relationship between Chinese consumers and domestic sportswear brands. The purpose of this study is to explore the spillover effect of Chinese domestic sportswear brands' relationship quality to uncover the psychological mechanisms driving this preference shift.Design/methodology/approachThe study used a brand relationship quality scale based on Chinese Confucian yuanfen culture, considering it as a second-order reflective-formative construct. The survey generated 326 valid responses online. Due to the presence of second-order reflective-formative construct in the variables, SmartPLS 4.0 was used for hypothesis testing.FindingsInteraction belief, intimate interaction and happiness as formative dimensions of Confucian yuanfen brand relationship quality are validated, while emotional expression and tolerance are not. The Confucian yuanfen brand relationship quality has a spillover effect on product origin image and domestic sportswear brand preference. Product origin image has a mediating role between Confucian yuanfen brand relationship quality and domestic sportswear brand preference. However, consumer xenocentrism does not moderate the spillover effect of Confucian yuanfen brand relationship quality on domestic sportswear brand preference.Originality/valueThis study tests brand relationship quality from Confucian yuanfen perspective as a second-order reflective-formative construct. It contributes to understanding how Chinese consumers perceive their relationships with domestic sportswear brands. The results advance the current body of knowledge on brand relationship quality and spillover effect in sports marketing, indicating that Chinese sportswear brands can explore the possibility of co-opetition to achieve mutual benefits.		[Yang, Ruichen; Song, Hemin] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Business Sch, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Song, Hemin] Beijing Winter Olymp Culture & Ice & Snow Sports D, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Song, Hemin] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Business Sch, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Song, Hemin] Beijing Winter Olymp Culture & Ice & Snow Sports D, Beijing, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001271112400001	110	Article; Article		
J	Walker, Robert; Harada, Kazuhiro								Affective Exercise Experience in Childhood and Psychological Determinants of Exercise Among Japanese Older Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			133	145		10.1080/02701367.2024.2375290			JAN 2 2025	2025	Japan faces significant challenges associated with its super-aged society. Exercise and physical activity are recommended strategies to promote healthy aging and quality of life in older age. However, what determines exercise behavior among Japanese older adults is relatively unknown. The principle aim of this study was to explore exercise determinants and their relation to exercise behavior among Japanese older adults. Completed self-report questionnaires were received from 1,000 Japanese older adults aged between 65 and 74 years who resided in the Kansai area. A cross-sectional maximum likelihood path analysis was used to test the relationships between variables, where it was hypothesized that affective experiences in childhood had an indirect association with the exercise behavior of Japanese older adults through the seven psychological determinants of exercise. Demographic factors were also included in the model as potential influences of all factors. Knowledge held the largest significant direct association with exercise behavior (beta = .539, p = <.001), particularly more intense forms of exercise such as resistance exercise (beta = .725, p = <.001) and moderate to strenuous exercise (beta = .420, p = <.001), whilst affective exercise experience in childhood (B = 3.749, p = <.001) and gender (B = 5.183, p = .003) held significant indirect associations. This paper emphasizes the importance of exercise-related knowledge among Japanese older adults and future research is warranted to further explore the role of positive affective exercise experiences in childhood and their influence on exercise behavior, especially amongst girls.		[Walker, Robert] Bristol Med Univ Bristol, Ctr publ Hlth Populat Hlth Sci, Canynge Hall,39 Whatley Rd, Bristol BS8 2PS, England; [Harada, Kazuhiro] Kobe Univ, Kobe, Japan; [Walker, Robert] Bristol Med Univ Bristol, Ctr publ Hlth Populat Hlth Sci, Canynge Hall,39 Whatley Rd, Bristol BS8 2PS, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001268795200001	85	Article; Article		
J	Veiga, Santiago; Suarez, Bruno; Segovia, Carlos; Navandar, Archit; Rueda, Javier; Navarro, Enrique								Current iliotibial band syndrome alters patterns of running coordination in male and female runners, but not their levels of coordination variability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			1865	1878		10.1080/14763141.2024.2368068			JUL 3 2025	2025	The aim of the present study was to compare the coordination patterns and levels of coordination variability of healthy and injured runners with iliotibial band syndrome (ITBS). Sixty runners divided into four groups (15 healthy males, 15 healthy females, 15 males with ITBS and 15 females with ITBS) ran at a steady and freely chosen pace on an over-ground track, and their coordination patterns of the lower limbs were calculated during 10 running stances using the vector coding technique. Both male and female runners with ITBS showed a greater dominance of the pelvis segment and the anti-phase patterns in the frontal plane thigh-pelvis coupling (p = 0.001, eta 2 = 0.36). In addition, injured female runners showed a greater hip adduction dominance, whereas injured males presented a greater anti-phase pattern in the transverse plane-frontal plane hip coupling (p = 0.003, eta 2 = 0.08). The levels of coordination variability during running stance did not change between ITBS injured and healthy runners in any of the couplings. Currently injured runners with ITBS appeared to present altered coordination patterns on the hip couplings that were partly dependent on gender but did not lead to changes in the coordination variability levels.		[Veiga, Santiago; Suarez, Bruno; Segovia, Carlos; Navandar, Archit] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Rueda, Javier; Navarro, Enrique] Univ Politecn Madrid, Hlth & Human Performance Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001267575300001	43	Article; Article		
J	Smulligan, Katherine L.; Carry, Patrick; Smith, Andrew C.; Esopenko, Carrie; Baugh, Christine M.; Wilson, Julie C.; Howell, David R.								Cervical spine proprioception and vestibular/oculomotor function: An observational study comparing young adults with and without a concussion history								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				69				33	39		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.07.002			SEP 2024	2024	Objective: To investigate dizziness, vestibular/oculomotor symptoms, and cervical spine proprioception among adults with/without a concussion history. Methods: Adults ages 18-40 years with/without a concussion history completed: dizziness handicap inventory (DHI), visio-vestibular exam (VVE), and head repositioning accuracy (HRA, assesses cervical spine proprioception). Linear regression models were used to assess relationships between (1) concussion/no concussion history group and VVE, HRA, and DHI, and (2) DHI with HRA and VVE for the concussion history group. Results: We enrolled 42 participants with concussion history (age = 26.5 +/- 4.5 years, 79% female, mean = 1.4 +/- 0.8 years post-concussion) and 46 without (age = 27.0 +/- 3.8 years, 74% female). Concussion history was associated with worse HRA (8 = 1.23, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.77, 1.68; p < 0.001), more positive VVE subtests (beta = 3.01, 95%CI: 2.32, 3.70; p < 0.001), and higher DHI scores (beta = 9.79, 95%CI: 6.27, 13.32; p < 0.001) after covariate adjustment. For the concussion history group, number of positive VVE subtests was significantly associated with DHI score (beta = 3.78, 95%CI: 2.30, 5.26; p < 0.001) after covariate adjustment, while HRA error was not (beta = 1.10, 95%CI: -2.32, 4.51; p = 0.52). Conclusions: Vestibular/oculomotor symptom provocation and cervical spine proprioception impairments may persist chronically (i.e., 3 years) after concussion. Assessing dizziness, vestibular/oculomotor and cervical spine function after concussion may inform patient-specific treatments to address ongoing dysfunction.		[Smulligan, Katherine L.; Carry, Patrick; Wilson, Julie C.; Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Smulligan, Katherine L.; Carry, Patrick; Wilson, Julie C.; Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Smith, Andrew C.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Aurora, CO USA; [Esopenko, Carrie] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Rehabil & Human Performance, New York, NY USA; [Baugh, Christine M.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Ctr Bioeth & Humanities, Div Gen Internal Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Wilson, Julie C.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Pediat, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001272721100001	44	Article; Article		
J	Xu, Jiaqing; Turner, Anthony; Comyns, Thomas M.; Chavda, Shyam; Bishop, Chris								Effects of external verbal cueing on countermovement rebound jump performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	1			64	82		10.1080/14763141.2024.2377217			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study examined the effects of three external verbal cues on countermovement rebound jump (CMRJ) performance. Twenty-five recreational athletes completed nine jumps with distinct height, velocity and combined cue focus. A general linear model analysis of variance was used to evaluate systematic bias between conditions (p < 0.05). The height and velocity cues significantly altered jump height and contact times in both jumps during the CMRJ, respectively (p <= 0.002). The combined cue significantly reduced contact time while increasing leg stiffness compared to the height cue (p <= 0.038). It also increased jump height compared to the velocity cue (p <= 0.005) in both jumps, resulting in the highest explosive power and reactive strength values among all conditions. Furthermore, the combined cue enhanced the positive ankle contribution compared to the height cue (p = 0.020) and increased positive hip and negative knee joint work compared to the velocity cue (p <= 0.040) in the second jump of the CMRJ. These findings advise practitioners to use the height cue to maximise jump height, the velocity cue to minimise contact times and the combined cue to maximise explosive power and reactive strength.		[Xu, Jiaqing; Turner, Anthony; Chavda, Shyam; Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Comyns, Thomas M.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Xu, Jiaqing] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001272496700001	36	Article; Article		
J	Glaister, Mark; Lythgoe, Dhama; Kamath, Sahana								The Effects of Caffeine on Heart Rate and Heart Rate Variability at Rest and During Submaximal Cycling Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			155	163		10.1080/02701367.2024.2377303			JAN 2 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of caffeine on heart rate and heart rate variability (HRV) at rest and during submaximal exercise. Using a balanced, double-blind, randomized, crossover design, 16 male cyclists (age: 37 +/- 9 years; (sic)O-2max: 4.44 +/- 0.67 L<middle dot>min(-1)) completed three trials in an air- conditioned laboratory. In Trial 1, cyclists completed two incremental cycling tests to establish the (sic)O2- power output relationship and (sic)O-2max. In trials 2 and 3, cyclists were evaluated for heart rate and HRV at rest, after which they ingested a capsule containing 5 mg<middle dot>kg(-1) of caffeine or placebo. Thirty-five minutes post-supplementation, additional resting heart rate and HRV readings were taken after which cyclists completed a submaximal incremental cycling test (6 min stages) at 40-80% of (sic)O-2max; with HR and HRV measurements taken in the last 5 min of each increment. HRV was determined from the root mean square of successive differences between R-R intervals. There were significant supplement x exercise intensity interactions on heart rate (p = .019) and HRV (p = .023), with post hoc tests on the latter showing that caffeine increased HRV at 40%, 50%, and 60% of (sic)O-2max by 3.6 +/- 4.9, 2.6 +/- 2.8, and 0.6 +/- 1.7 ms, respectively. There was a supplement x time interaction effect on resting HRV (p < .001), but not on heart rate (p = .351). The results of this study support the suggestion that caffeine increases the parasympathetic modulation of heart rate.		[Glaister, Mark; Lythgoe, Dhama; Kamath, Sahana] St Marys Univ, Twickenham, England; [Glaister, Mark] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Appl Sci, Strawberry Hill, Twickenham TW14SX, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001272493100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Cameron, Shaun; Radwan, Ibrahim; Mara, Jocelyn								What the Eyes Don't See: An Objective Assessment of Players' Contribution to Team Success in Men's Rugby League								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			116	125		10.1080/02701367.2024.2373124			JAN 2 2025	2025	Purpose: This study addresses the lack of objective player-based metrics in men's rugby league by introducing a comprehensive set of novel performance metrics designed to quantify a player's overall contribution to team success. Methods: Player match performance data were captured by Stats Perform for every National Rugby League season from 2018 until 2022; a total of five seasons. The dataset was divided into offensive and defensive variables and further split according to player position. Five machine learning algorithms (Principal Component Regression, Lasso Regression, Random Forest, Regression Tree, and Extreme Gradient Boost) were considered in the analysis, which ultimately generated Wins Created and Losses Created for offensive and defensive performance, respectively. These two metrics were combined to create a final metric of Net Wins Added. The validity of these player performance metrics against traditional objective and subjective measures of performance in rugby league were evaluated. Results: The metrics correctly predicted the winner of 80.9% of matches, as well as predicting the number of team wins per season with an RMSE of 1.9. The metrics displayed moderate agreement (Gwet AC1 = 0.505) when predicting team of the year award recipients. When predicting State of Origin selection, the metrics displayed moderate agreement for New South Wales (0.450) and substantial agreement for Queensland (0.652). Conclusion: The development and validation of these objective player performance metrics represent significant potential to enhance talent evaluation and player recruitment.		[Cameron, Shaun; Radwan, Ibrahim; Mara, Jocelyn] Univ Canberra, Canberra, Australia; [Cameron, Shaun] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise UC RISE, Canberra 2617, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001271108100001	52	Article; Article		
J	Chagas, Daniel Das Virgens; Joia, Maria Carolina								Motor Competence as a Protection Factor Against Pediatric Obesity: The Bidirectional Relationship Between Motor Competence and Weight Status								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			126	132		10.1080/02701367.2024.2373995			JAN 2 2025	2025	Purpose: Motor competence is negatively associated with body mass index (BMI) in young people. However, it is still unclear whether motor competence is linked to the risk of obesity in adolescents and longitudinal evidence is missing. The main purpose of this study was to assess the association between motor competence and risk of obesity across adolescence. Methods: A 2-year follow-up study was conducted with a total of 122 adolescents (59.8% girls) aged 12 to 13 years at baseline. Motor competence (KTK), weight status (BMI) and physical activity (questionnaire) were assessed at three time points. Generalized estimating equation and logistic regression models were conducted to examine the relationships between motor competence and weight status, adjusting for potential confounders (i.e. age, sex and physical activity). Results: Motor competence and BMI were inversely related over time. The chance to have overweight/obesity decreased by 6.5% and 8% with a 10-point increase in motor competence across time. In addition, adolescents had 6.4 to 8.2 greater chance to have low motor competence with a 1-point increase in BMI across time. Conclusion: Motor competence is inversely associated with the risk of overweight/obesity across adolescence. Therefore, the development of motor competence can be a protection factor against excessive weight gain. As such, we recommend the development of motor competence as a strategy to prevent pediatric obesity through diversified types of physical activities such as sports, active play and physical education classes.		[Chagas, Daniel Das Virgens; Joia, Maria Carolina] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Rua Sao Francisco Xavier 524,Bloco F, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Chagas, Daniel Das Virgens] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Rua Sao Francisco Xavier 524,Bloco F, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001269696900001	34	Article; Article		
J	Giordano, Kevin A.; Wasserberger, Kyle W.								On discretising continuous data for subgroup analysis in baseball pitching and alternative analytical methodologies								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3490	3501		10.1080/14763141.2024.2377219			DEC 1 2024	2024	There is a plethora of research attempting to contrast high- and low-velocity pitchers to identify traits to target for increasing velocity. However, pitch velocity exists on a continuum. Therefore, our purpose is to display the analytical discrepancies between creating velocity subgroups and leaving velocity as a continuous variable by examining the influence of ball velocity on elbow valgus torque. Motion capture data for 1315 actively competing pitchers were retrospectively extracted from a private database. We compared three analytic methods: (1) linear regression of valgus torque on ball velocity, (2) t-test between low- and high-velocity groups formed by a median split, and (3) t-test between very low- and very high-velocity groups formed by upper and lower velocity quartiles. Linear regression indicates ball velocity influenced valgus torque (p < 0.001, R-2 = 0.280). Median splitting reduced the predictability of ball velocity on valgus torque (p < 0.001, R-2 = 0.180). Conversely, extreme group splitting artificially inflated the effect size (p < 0.001, R-2 = 0.347). We recommend sports biomechanics researchers not discretise a continuous variable to form subgroups for analysis because (1) it distorts the relationship between the variables of interest and (2) a regression equation can be used to estimate the dependent variable at any value of the independent variable, not just the group means.		[Giordano, Kevin A.] Holy Cross Orthoped Inst, Dept Orthoped & Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33334 USA; [Wasserberger, Kyle W.] Res & Dev Driveline Baseball, Kent, WA USA; [Giordano, Kevin A.] Holy Cross Orthoped Inst, Dept Orthoped & Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33334 USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001269726900001	17	Article; Article		
J	Pan, Jiahao; Zhang, Shuqi								Dual-Task Effect on Center of Pressure Oscillations and Prefrontal Cortex Activation Between Young and Older Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			85	95		10.1080/02701367.2024.2365940			JAN 2 2025	2025	Purpose: This study aimed to investigate the dual-task effect on conventional center of pressure (CoP) outcomes, CoP oscillations, and prefrontal cortex (PFC) activation between young and older adults. Methods: Fourteen healthy older adults (age: 66.25 +/- 3.43 years) and another fourteen gender-matched young adults (age: 19.80 +/- 0.75 years) participated in this study. Participants completed single-task and dual-task standing trials in a fixed order. The displacement of CoP and PFC activation were recorded using a Force plate and a functional near-infrared spectroscopy system, respectively. Two-way MANOVAs were used to examine the group and task effects. Additionally, the Pearson correlation analyses were used to investigate the relationship between CoP oscillations and PFC activation. Results: Our results showed a worse balance performance, greater CoP oscillations of 0-0.1 (11.03 +/- 8.24 vs. 23.20 +/- 12.54 cm(2)) and 0.1-0.5 (13.62 +/- 9.30 vs. 30.00 +/- 23.12 cm2) Hz in the medial-lateral direction and higher right (dorsomedial: -0.0003 +/- 0.021 vs. 0.021 +/- 0.021 & ventrolateral: 0.0087 +/- 0.047 vs. 0.025 +/- 0.045 mol/ml) and left (dorsomedial: 0.0033 +/- 0.024 vs. 0.020 +/- 0.025 & ventrolateral: 0.0060 +/- 0.037 vs. 0.034 +/- 0.037 mol/ml) PFC activation in response to a secondary cognitive task in older adults (p < .05). Older adults also showed significant positive correlations between CoP oscillations in the anterior-posterior direction and PFC activation under the single-task standing. Conclusion: These results suggest that older adults presented a loss of postural automaticity contributing to cognitive dysfunction. Moreover, heightened CoP oscillations at 0-0.5 Hz in response to a secondary cognitive task could provide evidence of a loss of automaticity, which might be associated with a greater reliance on the sensory inputs.		[Pan, Jiahao; Zhang, Shuqi] Boise State Univ, Boise, ID USA; [Zhang, Shuqi] Boise State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Boise, ID 83725 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001269281500001	64	Article; Article		
J	Bright, Thomas E.; Harry, John R.; Lake, Jason; Mundy, Peter; Theis, Nicola; Hughes, Jonathan D.								Methodological considerations in assessing countermovement jumps with handheld accentuated eccentric loading								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	1			46	63		10.1080/14763141.2024.2374884			JAN 2 2026	2026	This study aimed to compare the agreement between three-dimensional motion capture and vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) in identifying the point of dumbbell (DB) release during a countermovement jump with accentuated eccentric loading (CMJAEL), and to examine the influence of the vGRF analysis method on the reliability and magnitude of CMJAEL variables. Twenty participants (10 male, 10 female) completed five maximal effort CMJAEL at 20% and 30% of body mass (CMJAEL20 and CMJAEL30, respectively) using DBs. There was large variability between methods in both loading conditions, as indicated by the wide limits of agreement (CMJAEL20 = -0.22 to 0.07 s; CMJAEL30 = -0.29 to 0.14 s). Variables were calculated from the vGRF data, and compared between four methods (forward integration (FI), backward integration (BI), FI adjusted at bottom position (BP), FI adjusted at DB release point (DR)). Greater absolute reliability was observed for variables from DR (CV% <= 7.28) compared to BP (CV% <= 13.74), although relative reliability was superior following the BP method (ICC >= 0.781 vs >= 0.606, respectively). The vGRF method shows promise in pinpointing the DB release point when only force platforms are accessible, and a combination of FI and BI analyses is advised to understand CMJAEL dynamics.		[Bright, Thomas E.; Hughes, Jonathan D.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Bright, Thomas E.] Plymouth Marjon Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Plymouth, England; [Harry, John R.] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Human Performance & Biomech Lab, Lubbock, TX USA; [Lake, Jason] Univ Chichester, Inst Sport Nursing & Allied Hlth, Chichester, England; [Mundy, Peter] Hawkin Dynam Inc, Res & Dev, Westbrook, ME USA; [Theis, Nicola] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Bright, Thomas E.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Bright, Thomas E.] Plymouth Marjon Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Plymouth, England								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001269641700001	40	Article; Article		
J	Rocamora, Irene; Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto; Fernandez-Rio, Javier; Palencia, Natalia Maria Arias								Physical Activity Levels and Body Mass Index in Sport Education. Is There a Difference?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			75	84		10.1080/02701367.2024.2365300			JAN 2 2025	2025	Purpose: The goals of this study were: (1) to assess students' physical activity levels in a sport education season according to the phases of the model, adjusted for body mass index; (2) to uncover the contribution of the phases of the model to the World Health Organization recommendations; (3) to understand its impact in students with overweight/obesity. Methods: A total of 42 primary education students with a mean age of 10.68 +/- 0.69 years, enrolled in one year 5 (10-11 years) and one year 6 (11-12 years). Physical Education lessons of the same school agreed to participate. Students in both groups experienced a 14-lesson learning unit in team handball through the sport education. Each participant wore an ActiGraph GT3X accelerometer to measure physical activity levels, counts/minute and steps counted. Cole and Lobstein cutoff points were used to determine groups based on body mass index (thin, normal-weight, overweight/obese). Results: The results showed that the overweight/obese group achieved scores for moderate to vigorous physical activity and sedentary time that were not significantly different from the normal-weight group. According to the phases, the preseason was the most active and contributed most to the World Health Organization recommendations in all groups. Conclusions: Sport education could be considered an appropriate pedagogical framework to help overweight/obese children achieve moderate-to-vigorous physical activity and sedentary scores similar to their normal-weight classmates. Key elements of sport education include performing roles, learning work routines, and having the autonomy to choose games/tasks, all of which promote physical activity amongst all students.		[Rocamora, Irene; Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto; Palencia, Natalia Maria Arias] Univ Castilla La Mancha, La Mancha, Spain; [Fernandez-Rio, Javier] Univ Oviedo, Oviedo, Spain; [Palencia, Natalia Maria Arias] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Educ, Camino Pozuelo S-N, Cuenca 16071, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001268550500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Rivadulla, Adrian R.; Chen, Xi; Cazzola, Dario; Trewartha, Grant; Preatoni, Ezio								Clustering analysis across different speeds reveals two distinct running techniques with no differences in running economy								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				25	1			22	45		10.1080/14763141.2024.2372608			JAN 2 2026	2026	Establishing the links between running technique and economy remains elusive due to high inter-individual variability. Clustering runners by technique may enable tailored training recommendations, yet it is unclear if different techniques are equally economical and whether clusters are speed-dependent. This study aimed to identify clusters of runners based on technique and to compare cluster kinematics and running economy. Additionally, we examined the agreement of clustering partitions of the same runners at different speeds. Trunk and lower-body kinematics were captured from 84 trained runners at different speeds on a treadmill. We used Principal Component Analysis for dimensionality reduction and agglomerative hierarchical clustering to identify groups of runners with a similar technique, and we evaluated cluster agreement across speeds. Clustering runners at different speeds independently produced different partitions, suggesting single speed clustering can fail to capture the full speed profile of a runner. The two clusters identified using data from the whole range of speeds showed differences in pelvis tilt and duty factor. In agreement with self-optimisation theories, there were no differences in running economy, and no differences in participants' characteristics between clusters. Considering inter-individual technique variability may enhance the efficacy of training designs as opposed to 'one size fits all' approaches.		[Rivadulla, Adrian R.; Cazzola, Dario; Trewartha, Grant; Preatoni, Ezio] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Somerset, England; [Chen, Xi] Univ Bath, Dept Comp Sci, Bath, Somerset, England; [Trewartha, Grant] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Middlesbrough, N Yorkshire, England; [Rivadulla, Adrian R.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Somerset, England								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001269278500001	78	Article; Article		
J	Koike, Jun; Ogawa, Takeshi								Effect of Inspiratory Muscle-Loaded Exercise Training on Ventilatory Response and Intercostal Muscle Deoxygenation During Incremental Cycling Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			62	74		10.1080/02701367.2024.2365291			JAN 2 2025	2025	Purpose: This study evaluated the effects of exercise training (ET) and inspiratory muscle-loaded exercise training (IMLET) on ventilatory response and intercostal muscle deoxygenation levels during incremental cycling exercise. Methods: Twenty-one male participants were randomly divided into IMLET (n = 10) or ET (n = 11) groups. All participants underwent a 4-week cycling exercise training at 60% peak oxygen uptake. IMLET loaded 50% of maximal inspiratory pressure (P-Imax). Respiratory muscle strength test, respiratory muscle endurance test (RMET), resting hypoxic ventilatory responsiveness (HVR) test, and incremental cycling test were performed pre- and post-training. Results: The extent of improvement in the P-Imax was significantly greater in the IMLET group (24%) than in the ET group (8%) (p = .018), and an extended RMET time was observed in the IMLET group (p < .001). Minute ventilation (V-E) during exercise was unchanged in both groups before and after training, but tidal volume during exercise increased in the IMLET group. The increase in the exercise intensity threshold for muscle deoxygenation was similar in both groups (p < .001). HVR remained unchanged in both groups post-training. The exercise duration for the incremental exercise until reaching fatigue increased by 7.9% after ET and 6.9% after IMLET (p < .001). Conclusion: The 4-week IMLET improved respiratory muscle strength and endurance but did not alter HVR. Respiratory muscle deoxygenation was alleviated by exercise training, with a limited impact of inspiratory load training.		[Koike, Jun; Ogawa, Takeshi] Osaka Kyoiku Univ, Kashiwara, Japan; [Ogawa, Takeshi] Osaka Kyoiku Univ, Div Art Mus & Phys Educ, Asahigaoka 4-698-1, Kashiwara, Osaka 5828582, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001269936000001	45	Article; Article		
J	McNitt-Gray, Jill L.; Held, Laura; Mathiyakom, Witaya; Peterson, Travis J.; Zaferiou, Antonia M.								Make an impact: going full circle together								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			1879	1898		10.1080/14763141.2024.2369206			JUL 3 2025	2025	Sport diversification provides opportunities for individuals to develop physical literacy, establish a growth mindset, become more agile in varied environments, and develop robust strategies to improve performance. One could say the same for biomechanists, who study the control and dynamics of human movements in the context of sport. Through the lens of sport, we have focused on the ongoing interaction between the nervous system, musculoskeletal system, and the environment by using integrated experimental and modelling approaches to study well-practiced, goal-directed tasks in controlled laboratory and realistic field settings. By integrating multiple sources of information in real time to provide timely, relevant, usable, and easy to understand (TRUE) feedback during skill acquisition, we have found these resources also support learning and opportunities for self-discovery of proficiencies by coaches and athletes. Managing multimodal data acquired with emerging technological advances has also benefited from the use of FAIR data management principles, where data are findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable. By listening, clarifying goals, and exploring together with coaches and athletes, we can bridge the gaps between what we know and what we do.		[McNitt-Gray, Jill L.; Held, Laura; Mathiyakom, Witaya] Univ Southern Calif, Dept Biol Sci & Biomed Engn, Los Angeles, CA 90007 USA; [McNitt-Gray, Jill L.] Univ Southern Calif, Dept Biomech Engn, Los Angeles, CA 90007 USA; [Mathiyakom, Witaya] Calif State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Northridge, CA USA; [Peterson, Travis J.] Calif Lutheran Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Thousand Oaks, CA USA; [Zaferiou, Antonia M.] Stevens Inst Technol, Dept Biomed Engn, Hoboken, NJ USA; [McNitt-Gray, Jill L.] Univ Southern Calif, Dept Biol Sci & Biomed Engn, Los Angeles, CA 90007 USA; [McNitt-Gray, Jill L.] Univ Southern Calif, Dept Biomech Engn, Los Angeles, CA 90007 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001268782500001	57	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Cevallos, Daniel; Alguacil, Mario; Calabuig, Ferran; Duclos-Bastias, Daniel								Brand perception and its relationships to satisfaction with a virtual sporting event								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1059	1078		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2023-0186			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeThe purpose of this study is to use structural equation modeling to examine the interaction between the variables of corporate image, credibility, trust and satisfaction in the context of a virtual sporting event. The aim is to determine whether these variables have significant relationships with each other and which of them has the greatest influence on the prediction of participants' satisfaction.Design/methodology/approachA structured questionnaire was used, based on previously validated scales. The survey was administered using the LimeSurvey platform. The sample consisted of a total of 588 participants of the Medell & iacute;n virtual marathon.FindingsThe results of the study reveal significant findings regarding the relationships between the variables of corporate image, credibility, trust, and satisfaction in virtual sporting events. In particular, it is highlighted that trust emerges as the most influential factor in participants' satisfaction, which offers an insightful understanding of the importance of this variable in the user experience in virtual sporting events.Research limitations/implicationsThis study emphasizes the importance of brand analysis in the sports environment, stressing that the actions undertaken by managers should highlight both the corporate image and the connections with users, given their fundamental role in customer satisfaction. Likewise, the study of these variables within the sports context provides new knowledge and fills existing gaps within the academy. Limitations include the sample and the lack of consideration of all brand variables.Practical implicationsThe need to cultivate a strong and well-managed image to build trust with participants is emphasized for organizers of virtual sporting events. It is crucial to work on establishing long-term credibility, especially in the relatively new context of virtual racing. Maintaining, and building the virtual career offering is essential to strengthening relationships, demonstrating a robust corporate image. In addition, since trust and credibility have a significant impact on participant satisfaction in this type of event, managers must communicate the assurance that virtual careers offer an experience free of uncertainty and risk, which is particularly attractive to a new customer base interested in this format.Originality/valueThis article presents an original contribution by investigating the relationships between corporate image, credibility, trust, and satisfaction in the context of virtual sporting events. It employs a structural equation model to assess the significance and predictive capacity of these variables. Notably, the study identifies trust as the most influential factor in predicting participant satisfaction. These findings offer valuable insights into the relative importance of brand variables in shaping user satisfaction within the virtual sporting event domain. By shedding light on these dynamics, the research aids event managers in making informed resource allocation decisions, contributing to a nuanced understanding of brand impact in this context.		[Martinez-Cevallos, Daniel] Univ Cent Ecuador, Fac Cultura Fis, Quito, Ecuador; [Alguacil, Mario; Calabuig, Ferran] Univ Valencia, Dept Act Fis & Deport, Valencia, Spain; [Duclos-Bastias, Daniel] Pontificia Univ Catolica Valparaiso, Sch Phys Educ, Valparaiso, Chile; [Duclos-Bastias, Daniel] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Phys Act & Sport Sci Dept, IGOID Res Grp, Toledo, Spain; [Duclos-Bastias, Daniel] Pontificia Univ Catolica Valparaiso, Sch Phys Educ, Valparaiso, Chile; [Duclos-Bastias, Daniel] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Phys Act & Sport Sci Dept, IGOID Res Grp, Toledo, Spain								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001265320500001	0	Article; Article		
J	Richardson, Mark C.; Chesterton, Paul; Taylor, Abigail; Evans, William								The effect of surface on knee landing mechanics and muscle activity during a single-leg landing task in recreationally active females								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				69				22	32		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.07.001			SEP 2024	2024	Objective: Investigate the effect of surface on frontal plane knee angle, knee moment and muscle activity. Design: Randomised cross over. Setting: University Laboratory. Methods: Twenty females performed single-leg hop-landings onto sand, grass and firm surfaces. Kinematic, kinetic and muscle activity data were obtained. Compatibility curves were used to visualise parameter estimates alongside P- values, and S-value transforms. Results: Knee angle for firm-sand (mean difference <((d))over bar> = -2.2 degrees; 95% compatibility interval (CI): -4.6 to 0.28, p = 0.083, s = 3.6) and firm-grass ((d) over bar = -1.9; 95% CI: -4.3 to 0.5, p = 0.125, S = 3) yielded <4 bits of reputational information against the null hypothesis (H). 5 bits (p = 0.025) of information against H were observed for knee moment between firm-sand (<(d)over bar> = 0.17 N m/kg-1. m-1; 95% CI: 0.02 to 0.31) with similar effects for firm-grass ((d) over bar = 0.14 N m/kg-1. m-1; 95% CI: -0.02 to 0.29, p = 0.055, S = 4). Muscle activity across surfaces ranged from almost no (S = 1) reputational evidence against H (Quadriceps and Hamstrings) to 10-13 'bits' against H for lateral gastrocnemius (lower on sand). Conclusions: Our study provides valuable information for practitioners of the observed effect sizes for lower-limb landing mechanics across surfaces in asymptomatic females.		[Richardson, Mark C.; Chesterton, Paul] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Allied Hlth Profess Dept, Middlesbrough, England; [Taylor, Abigail; Evans, William] Sunderland Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Wellbeing, Sunderland, England; [Richardson, Mark C.] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Allied Hlth Profess Dept, Middlesbrough, England								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001269971800001	84	Article; Article		
J	Augustsson, Sofia Ryman; Gustafsson, Timmy; Ageberg, Eva								Can tests of physical fitness predict traumatic knee injury in youth female athletes? A prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				69				15	21		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.06.007			SEP 2024	2024	Objectives: To compile a battery of test including various aspects of physical fitness that could be used on the field and to assess whether any of these tests are associated with future traumatic knee injuries in youth female team sports athletes. Design: Prospective cohort. Setting: Sport setting. Participants: Female athletes (n = 117, age 15-19 years), from Swedish sport high schools, active in soccer, handball, or floorball. Main outcome measures: Differences in pre-injury tests values of 11 physical fitness tests in injured versus non- injured athletes, assessed as number of traumatic knee injuries over one season. Results: 28 athletes sustained 34 traumatic knee injuries. Athletes who sustained an injury had a shorter distance on the Yo-Yo IR1 test at baseline than those without an injury (mean difference-193 m, CI-293--65 m). None of the other tests, assessed for muscular strength, endurance, power, flexibility and dynamic knee valgus, differed between injured and non-injured athletes. Conclusions: Youth female athletes with lower intermittent endurance capacity, assessed with the Yo-Yo IR1, seemed to be at greater risk of traumatic knee injury. Neither hop performance, flexibility, dynamic knee valgus nor isolated strength tests at baseline could distinguish between injured and non-injured youth female athletes at follow-up.		[Augustsson, Sofia Ryman] Linnaeus Univ, Fac Social Sci, Dept Sport Sci, SE-39182 Kalmar, Sweden; [Augustsson, Sofia Ryman; Ageberg, Eva] Lund Univ, Fac Med, Dept Hlth Sci, Lund, Sweden; [Gustafsson, Timmy] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping, Sweden; [Augustsson, Sofia Ryman] Linnaeus Univ, Fac Social Sci, Dept Sport Sci, SE-39182 Kalmar, Sweden								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001361466800001	60	Article; Article		
J	Fuchs, Michael; Bodet, Guillaume; Hovemann, Gregor								The role of social and environmental sustainability on sportswear's purchasing among European consumers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	3			641	663		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2023-0116			JUL 9 2024	2024	PurposeWhile consumer preferences for sporting goods have been widely researched within sport management, literature is lacking on aspects of social and environmental sustainability. Accordingly, this study aims to investigate the role of social and environmental sustainability for purchase decisions of sportswear and compares them to the role of price and functionality.Design/methodology/approachBased on a conjoint analysis among 1,012 Europeans, the authors conducted a two-step cluster analysis. First, the authors investigated the number of segments via Ward's method. Second, the authors ran a k-means analysis based on part-worth utilities from the conjoint analysis.FindingsThe authors identified four segments which differ in terms of preferred product attributes, willingness to pay, and sociodemographic, behavioral, and psychographic characteristics: undecided, sustainable, price-focused and function-oriented consumers. Based on this segmentation, the authors found that the importance of social and environmental sustainability is growing, but not among all consumers.Research limitations/implicationsThe generalizability of the study is limited since it is not built on a sample representative for the included European countries, it focuses on a single product, and participants are potentially subject to a social desirability bias.Originality/valueThe consumer analysis comprises the uptake of attributes related to social and environmental sustainability. The authors thereby address a literature gap as previous research (thematizing sporting goods) in the sport management field has often neglected sustainability elements despite their rapidly growing importance within the sport sector.		[Fuchs, Michael; Hovemann, Gregor] Univ Leipzig, Dept Sports Econ & Sports Management, Leipzig, Germany; [Bodet, Guillaume] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, UFR STAPS, Villeurbanne, France; [Fuchs, Michael] Univ Leipzig, Dept Sports Econ & Sports Management, Leipzig, Germany								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001263700400012	131	Article; Article		
J	Pillitteri, Guglielmo; Rossi, Alessio; Bongiovanni, Tindaro; Puleo, Giuseppe; Petrucci, Marco; Iaia, F. Marcello; Sarmento, Hugo; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Battaglia, Giuseppe								Elite Soccer Players' Weekly Workload Assessment Through a New Training Load and Performance Score								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			993	1001		10.1080/02701367.2024.2358956			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: Monitoring players' training load allows practitioners to enhance physical performance while reducing injury risk. The aim of this study was to identify the key external load indicators in professional U19 soccer. Methods: Twenty-four-professional Italian young (U19) soccer players were monitored by using the rating of perceived exertion (CR-10 RPE scale) and a wearable inertial sensor during the competitive season. Three main components were detected by a Principal Component Analysis (PCA): i) volume metabolic related component, ii) intensity mechanical stimuli component, and iii) intensity metabolic/mechanical component. We hence computed two scores (i.e. Performance [PERF] and total workload [WORK]) permitting to investigate the weekly microcycle. Results: Correlation analysis showed that scores (i.e. PERF and WORK) are low correlated (r = -0.20) suggesting that they were independent. Autocorrelation analysis showed that a weekly microcycle is detectable in all the scores. Two-way ANOVA RM showed a statistical difference between match day (MD) and playing position for the three PCA components and PERF score. Conclusion: We proposed an innovative approach to assess both the players' physical performance and training load by using a machine learning approach allowing reducing a large dataset in an objective way. This approach may help practitioners to prescribe the training in the microcycle based on the two scores.		[Pillitteri, Guglielmo; Battaglia, Giuseppe] Univ Palermo, Palermo, Italy; [Rossi, Alessio] Feel Good Plus SRL MyPowerSet, Dept Res & Dev, Via Alghe 70, I-00126 Rome, Italy; [Bongiovanni, Tindaro] Univ Bologna, Bologna, Italy; [Puleo, Giuseppe; Petrucci, Marco] Palermo Football Club, Palermo, Italy; [Iaia, F. Marcello] Univ Milan, Milan, Italy; [Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Inst Telecomunicacoes, Gdansk, Poland; [Rossi, Alessio] Feel Good Plus SRL MyPowerSet, Dept Res & Dev, Via Alghe 70, I-00126 Rome, Italy								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001268242300001	43	Article; Article		
J	Sousa, Filipe Antonio de Barros; Marinho, Alisson Henrique; Calvalcante, Marcos David da Silva; Rodrigues, Natalia de Almeida; Lima, Tassio Silva; da Silva, Drumond Gilo; Fonseca, Fabiano de Souza; Balikian Junior, Pedro; de Araujo, Gustavo Gomes								Running sprint force-velocity-power profile obtained with a low-cost and low frame rate acquisition video technique: reliability and concurrent validity								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			1957	1973		10.1080/14763141.2024.2374882			JUL 3 2025	2025	The Force-velocity (F-v) and Power-velocity (P-v) relationships quantify athlete's horizontal force production capacities during sprinting. Efforts are underway to enhance ecological validity for practitioners and sports coaches. This study provides detailed data comparison of a low frames per second setup (30 Hz; FPSlow) with splits from a high FPS camera to derive F-v and P-v relationships. Sixty-six sprints performed by 11 university track and field athletes (6 male, 5 female) were evaluated. Data were recorded using FPSlow, photocells, and a high-speed camera (240 Hz; MySprint). In the FPSlow setup, bias was 0.17s, and Limits of agreement was 0.09s compared to photocells. ICC was 1.00, and the coefficient of variation (CV) was 1.0% [0.8-1.1%]. Time acquisition comparison between MySprint and FPSlow setups revealed high consistency (ICC = 0.99) and low CV (2.9% [2.8-3.1%]). F-v profile variables exhibited biases from trivial to small, with ICC ranging from moderate to nearly perfect. CV ranged from 2.7% to 11.8%, and improved using the average of three sprints (CV between 1.8% and 8.6%). The 'simple method' applied to data from the low FPS video setup yielded kinetic and kinematic parameters comparable to those obtained by the validated previous method and photocells.		[Sousa, Filipe Antonio de Barros; Marinho, Alisson Henrique; Calvalcante, Marcos David da Silva; Rodrigues, Natalia de Almeida; Lima, Tassio Silva; Balikian Junior, Pedro; de Araujo, Gustavo Gomes] Univ Fed Alagoas, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Lab Appl Sports Sci, Maceio, Brazil; [Sousa, Filipe Antonio de Barros; de Araujo, Gustavo Gomes] Univ Fed Alagoas, Nutr Sch, Program Nutr, Maceio, Brazil; [Marinho, Alisson Henrique] Univ Fed Parana, Dept Phys Educ, Curitiba, Brazil; [da Silva, Drumond Gilo; Fonseca, Fabiano de Souza] Univ Fed Rural Pernambuco, Program Movement Sci, Recife, Brazil; [Sousa, Filipe Antonio de Barros] Univ Fed Alagoas, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Lab Appl Sports Sci, Maceio, Brazil; [Sousa, Filipe Antonio de Barros] Univ Fed Alagoas, Nutr Sch, Program Nutr, Maceio, Brazil								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001268527800001	29	Article; Article		
J	Van den Berghe, Pieter; De Bock, Sander; Breine, Bastiaan; Horvais, Nicolas; Gruber, Allison; Six, Joren; Samozino, Pierre; Leman, Marc; Morin, Jean-Benoit; De Clercq, Dirk; Giandolini, Marlene								Peak tibial accelerations in different foot strike patterns during level running: an independent investigation in different cohorts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1788	1801		10.1080/14763141.2024.2367619			JUN 3 2025	2025	Peak tibial accelerations are used to monitor impact severity during distance running and as input for bio-feedback. Here, peak tibial accelerations were compared between rearfoot and forefoot strikes. Two different studies were undertaken by independent research centres. Tibial acceleration and optical motion capture were collected in 14 rearfoot strikers who changed to a forefoot strike in the first centre. In the second centre, tibial acceleration of 14 other rearfoot strikers and nine forefoot strikers were collected and processed. In over-ground level running at a submaximal speed, the resultant peak tibial acceleration was greater in the instructed forefoot strike condition (Delta X = 7.6 +/- 1.3 g, mean +/- standard error difference) and in the habitual forefoot strikers (Delta(X) over bar = 3.7 +/- 1.1 g) than in the rearfoot strikers. The shank kinematics revealed a greater decrease in antero-posterior velocity following touchdown in the forefoot strike condition. The forefoot strikes experienced greater posterior tibial acceleration, which resulted in an increased resultant peak tibial acceleration that also occurred earlier than in the rearfoot strikes. No significant difference in axial peak tibial acceleration was found between these foot strike patterns. In conclusion, the foot strike pattern differently affects peak tibial accelerations in level running, which can have implications for monitoring and biofeedback applications.		[Van den Berghe, Pieter; De Bock, Sander; Breine, Bastiaan; De Clercq, Dirk] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Horvais, Nicolas; Giandolini, Marlene] Salomon SAS, Amer Sports Footwear Innovat & Sport Sci Lab, Annecy, France; [Gruber, Allison] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN USA; [Six, Joren; Leman, Marc] Univ Ghent, Dept Arts Mus & Theatre Sci, IPEM, Ghent, Belgium; [Samozino, Pierre] Savoie Mt Blanc Univ, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, Chambery, France; [Morin, Jean-Benoit] Univ Lyon St Etienne, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite, UJM St Etienne, St Etienne, France; [Van den Berghe, Pieter] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001324131200001	22	Article; Article		
J	Stuelcken, Max C.; Hiller, Claire E.; Toohey, Liam								Mechanisms of lateral ankle ligament sprains in professional netball: A systematic video analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				69				8	14		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.06.004			SEP 2024	2024	Objectives: To undertake a systematic analysis of 17 medical attention and time-loss lateral ankle ligament sprain (LALS) events from televised Australian professional netball games during the 2020 -2023 seasons. Design: Case series. Methods: Three analysts independently assessed the video footage and then convened to review and discuss each case until a consensus was reached. Results: When in possession (7 cases) a player was commonly performing an agility-based manoeuvre to break free from an opponent and reposition themselves to be a passing option (5/7 cases). When out of possession (10 cases) a player was either attempting to intercept a pass (6 cases) or marking an opponent (4 cases). Players tended to land on the anterior one-third of the plantar surface of the foot- forefoot or shoe tip (7 cases). Players often landed on either the ground (7 cases) or the opponent 's shoe then the ground (8 cases). In 9 cases the anklefoot was considered to be in a neutral alignment in the frontal plane at landing. At the estimated index frame the players ' weight tended to be all on the foot on the injured side (11 cases) or favouring the foot on the injured side (5 cases). Inversion and adduction was a common injury mechanism. Plantar-flexion was rarely involved. Conclusion: Landing on the anterior one-third of the plantar surface of the foot and subsequent weight transference onto the injured limb side was more important than ankle-foot inversion at initial ground contact. Exercises involving external perturbations that challenge the control of frontal and transverse plane ankle-foot motion and improve proprioception, neuromuscular control, and dynamic balance are warranted.		[Stuelcken, Max C.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth, Maroochydore, Qld 4558, Australia; [Hiller, Claire E.] Univ Sydney, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, D18 Susan Wakil Hlth Bldg,Western Ave, Camperdown, NSW 2006, Australia; [Toohey, Liam] Univ Canberra, Univ Canberra Res Inst Sport & Exercise UCRISE, Canberra, ACT 2617, Australia; [Stuelcken, Max C.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth, Maroochydore, Qld 4558, Australia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001266091900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Rago, Vincenzo; Fernandes, Tiago; Mohr, Magni								Identifying Key Training Load and Intensity Indicators in Ice Hockey Using Unsupervised Machine Learning								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				96	1			21	33		10.1080/02701367.2024.2360162			JAN 2 2025	2025	To identify key training load (TL) and intensity indicators in ice hockey, practice, and game data were collected using a wearable 200-Hz accelerometer and heart rate (HR) recording throughout a four-week (29 days) competitive period (23 practice sessions and 8 competitive games in 17 elite Danish players (n = 427 observations). Within-individual correlations among accelerometer- (total accelerations [Acc(tot)], accelerations >2 m<middle dot>s(-2) [Acc2], total accelerations [Dec(tot)], decelerations <- 2 m<middle dot>s(-2) [Dec2]), among HR-derived (time >85% maximum HR [t85%HRmax], Edwards' TL and modified training impulse) TL indicators, and between acceleration- and HR-derived TL parameters were large to almost perfect (r = 0.69-0.99). No significant correlations were observed between accelerometer- and HR-derived intensity indicators. Three between- and two within-components were found. The K-means++ cluster analysis revealed five and four clusters for between- and within-loadings, respectively. The least Euclidean distance from their centroid for each cluster was reported by session-duration, Acc(tot), Dec2, TRIMPMOD, %t85HR(max) for between-loadings, whereas session-duration, Acc2, t85HR(max) and Dec2/min for within-loadings. Specific TL or intensity variables might be relevant to identify similar between-subject groups (e.g. individual player, playing positions), or temporal patterns (e.g. changes in TL or intensity over time). Our study provides insights about the redundancy associated with the use of multiple TL and intensity variables in ice hockey.		[Rago, Vincenzo] Univ Europeia, Fac Healh & Sport Sci, Estr Correia,N 53, P-1500210 Lisbon, Portugal; [Fernandes, Tiago] Univ Lleida, Lleida, Spain; [Fernandes, Tiago] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Karlsruhe, Germany; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Faroe Isl, Torshavn, Faroe Islands; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Southern Denmark, Slagelse, Denmark; [Rago, Vincenzo] Univ Europeia, Fac Healh & Sport Sci, Estr Correia,N 53, P-1500210 Lisbon, Portugal								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001262605600001	38	Article; Article		
J	Jenner, Brooke; Nottle, Carmel; Walters, Julie L.; Saunders, Steven W.; Leicht, Anthony S.; Crowther, Robert G.								Reliability of lower limb strength assessment in female team sport athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				68				71	79		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.06.006			JUL 2024	2024	Background: Lower limb injury rates have increased dramatically in line with increased female sport participation levels. Muscle strength is a modifiable lower limb injury risk factor, guiding performance monitoring and rehabilitation. Objectives: The aim of this study was to investigate the test-retest reliability of isokinetic and isometric lower limb peak torque to body mass of muscles acting on the hip, knee, and ankle in female team sport athletes. It was hypothesised the test-retest reliability would be good (intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) >= 0.75). Methods: Thirty-eight female athletes (Australian Rules Football = 18, netball = 12, soccer = 8) aged 16-35 years participated in this study. Participants performed isokinetic (60 degrees/s and 120 degrees/s) and isometric testing on a Biodex Isokinetic Dynamometer on three separate days. Results: Poor to good reliability was demonstrated for all joint movements (ICC = 0.38-0.88) with small to moderate effect sizes (0.00-0.43) and typical errors (5.65-24.49). Conclusion: Differences in peak torque to body mass were observed between sessions one and two and/or one and three, demonstrating a learning effect. Therefore, three testing sessions, and/or the inclusion of a familiarisation session, is recommended for future assessments in populations unfamiliar with dynamometry.		[Jenner, Brooke; Nottle, Carmel; Walters, Julie L.; Crowther, Robert G.] Univ South Australia, UniSA Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide 5001, Australia; [Jenner, Brooke; Nottle, Carmel; Walters, Julie L.; Crowther, Robert G.] Univ South Australia, Alliance Res Exercise Nutr & Act ARENA, Adelaide 5001, Australia; [Saunders, Steven W.] Saunders Physiotherapy, Adelaide 5000, Australia; [Leicht, Anthony S.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Douglas, Qld 4811, Australia; [Crowther, Robert G.] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Exercise & Sports Sci, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Jenner, Brooke] Univ South Australia, UniSA Allied Hlth & Human Performance, Adelaide 5001, Australia								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001266193700001	47	Article; Article		
J	Nikseresht, Mahmoud; Castagna, Carlo; Nikseresht, Mehdi								Assessing the Validity of Two Non-Exercise Regression Equations for Predicting Maximal Oxygen Consumption								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			953	962		10.1080/02701367.2024.2354819			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: This study aimed to develop two regression equations to predict maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) using non-exercise data from a substantial cohort of healthy Iranian adult males. Additionally, this study sought to examine the predictive accuracy of these equations across four different levels of physical activity. Methods: A total of 126 participants (age: 34.9 +/- 11.3 years, body mass index [BMI]: 24.9 +/- 2.7 kg/m(2), and body fat percentage [BF%]: 18.3 +/- 4.9) completed a maximal graded exercise test to measure VO2max, with a mean of 45.0 +/- 3.4 ml.kg(-1).min(-1). Participants also provided information on age, current physical activity rating (PA-R), and either BMI or BF% to estimate VO2max using Jackson and colleagues' regression equations. The PA-R was assessed via a standardized questionnaire and categorized into four levels: sedentary, low, moderate, and high. Results: The key findings from this study indicate that both original models significantly underestimated actual VO2max in a large cohort of Iranian adults (both, p < .001 and mean differences exceeding 2.19 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)). Nevertheless, these models provided accurate predictions for VO2max among individuals with moderate levels of physical activity (both, p > .08 and mean differences between 0.51 and 1.03 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)). Furthermore, the models demonstrated moderate validity, as evidenced by an intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) of 0.841 and a coefficient of variation averaging 10.9%, with a range from 8.5% to 13.6%. Conclusions: While Jackson's two non-exercise models showed limited accuracy in predicting VO2max among Iranian healthy male adults, they exhibited reasonable precision, particularly among moderately active men.		[Nikseresht, Mahmoud] Islamic Azad Univ, Ilam Branch, Tehran, Iran; [Castagna, Carlo] Carlo Bo Urbino Univ, Urbino, Italy; [Nikseresht, Mehdi] Univ Mazandaran, Babolsar, Iran; [Nikseresht, Mahmoud] Islamic Azad Univ, Dept Exercise Physiol, Ilam Branch, Daneshjo Blvd, Ilam 6931133145, Iran								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001261070200001	26	Article; Article		
J	Hansoulle, Thomas; Peters-Dickie, Jean-Louis; Mahaudens, Philippe; Nguyen, Anh Phong								Do we underestimate the frequency of ankle sprains in running? A systematic review and meta-analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				68				60	70		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.06.009			JUL 2024	2024	Objective: To provide a systematic review and meta-analysis of the proportion of ankle sprains in running practices. Design: Systematic review and meta-analysis. Main outcome measures: We calculated the weighted summary proportion and conducted meta-analyses for runners, considering levels (elite/recreational) and disciplines (distance, track, cross-country, trail, and orienteering). Results: 32 studies were included in the systematic review and 19 were included in the meta-analysis with a level of quality ranging from poor to good. Proportion of ankle sprains in runners was 13.69% (95%CI = 7.40-21.54; I2 = 98.58%) in global, 12.20% (95%CI = 5.24-21.53; I2 = 89.31%) in elite, 19.40% (95%CI = 10.05-30.90; I2 = 99.09%) in recreational, 8.51% (95%CI = 4.22-14.12; I2 = 96.15%) in distance, 67.42% (95%CI = 0.50-82.85; I2 = 99.36%) in track, 27.07% (95%CI = 12.48-44.81; I2 = 97.97%) in cross-country, and 25.70% (95%CI = 19.87-32.14; I2 = 0.00) in orienteering. Conclusions: Running practice results in significant proportion rate of ankle sprains. Recreational runners exhibit higher proportion than elite. Running disciplines, especially track, cross-country, and orienteering, influence reported ankle sprain rates, surpassing those of distance runners.		[Hansoulle, Thomas; Peters-Dickie, Jean-Louis; Mahaudens, Philippe; Nguyen, Anh Phong] Catholic Univ Louvain, Inst Rech Experimentale & Clin, Neuro Musculo Skeletal Lab NMSK, Sect Sci Sante, Ave Mounier 52, B-1200 Brussels, Belgium; [Peters-Dickie, Jean-Louis] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Musculoskeletal Rehabil Res Grp, Spoorwegstr 12, B-8200 Sint Michiels, Belgium; [Peters-Dickie, Jean-Louis] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Univ Hosp Pellenberg, Clin Mot Anal Lab CMAL, Weligerveld 1, B-3212 Lubbeek, Belgium; [Nguyen, Anh Phong] Running Clin, Lac beauport, PQ, Canada; [Hansoulle, Thomas] Catholic Univ Louvain, Inst Rech Experimentale & Clin, Neuro Musculo Skeletal Lab NMSK, Sect Sci Sante, Ave Mounier 52, B-1200 Brussels, Belgium								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001265310700001	77	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Catarina Costa; Marinho, Daniel Almeida; Costa, Mario Jorge								Changes in Young Swimmers' In-Water Force, Performance, Kinematics, and Anthropometrics over a Full Competitive Season								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				5	15		10.5114/jhk/183065			JUL 2024	2024	The aim of the present study was to analyze changes in young swimmers' in-water force, performance, kinematics, and anthropometrics during one full competitive season. Twenty-five swimmers (11 girls and 14 boys, 12.04 +/- 0.16 years) were assessed over four distinct time points throughout a competitive season. The in-water force of both hands (D, dominant; ND, non-dominant) was retrieved during two bouts of 25 m front crawl allowing the estimation of the symmetry index. The velocity (v25) was calculated from the time to complete the 25 m and considered the performance outcome, while the stroke rate, stroke length, and the stroke index were used as kinematic variables. For anthropometric variables, body mass, stature, arm span and the hand surface area were measured. The in-water force (16-24%) and performance (8%) improved over the competitive season with significant changes in the first macrocycle. The stroke index was the only kinematic variable that changed between M1 and M4 (12.7%), accompanied by a higher asymmetric motion later in the season. A time effect was found in the stature (p < 0.001, n(p)(2) = 0.71), the arm span (p < 0.001, n(p)(2) = 0.79), and the hand surface area (D = p < 0.001, n(p)(2) = 0.63; ND = p < 0.001, n(p)(2) = 0.666). Swimming performance showed associations with in-water force, stroke efficiency and anthropometric features in all time points of the season. Thus, the natural anthropometric growth experienced over the season may translate into a more efficient swimming pattern with greater in-water forces that can enhance performance.		[Santos, Catarina Costa; Marinho, Daniel Almeida] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina Costa; Marinho, Daniel Almeida] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Costa, Mario Jorge] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina Costa] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina Costa] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400001	45	Article; Article		
J	Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus J.; Lopez-Belmonte, Oscar; Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco; Gay, Ana; Arellano, Raul								The Effects of Eccentric Training on Undulatory Underwater Swimming Performance and Kinematics in Competitive Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				53	68		10.5114/jhk/175824			JUL 2024	2024	This study aimed to evaluate the effects of a five-week training program on undulatory underwater swimming (UUS) in swimmers and to compare the specific effects prompted by two different training protocols on UUS performance and kinematics. Swimmers (n = 14) were divided into in-water only (WO) (18.61 +/- 2.62 years, FINA points: 507 +/- 60) and water + dry-land training groups (with conical pulleys) (WD) (18.38 +/- 2.67 years, FINA points: 508 +/- 83). Three countermovement jumps (CMJ) and three maximal UUS trials were performed before and after a five-week training period. The training program comprised 14 x 30-min sessions. The WO group repeated the same 15-min block twice, while the WD group performed one block of 15 min in the water and the other block on land performing lower limb exercises with conical pulleys. Seven body landmarks were auto-digitalized during UUS by a pre-trained neural network and 21 kinematic variables were calculated. The level of statistical significance was set at p < 0.05. Significant time x group interaction in favour of the WD group was observed for mean vertical toe velocity (p = 0.035, eta(2)(p) = 0.32). The WD group experienced enhancements in mean and maximum underwater velocity, kick frequency, maximum shoulder angular velocity, as well as mean and maximum vertical toe velocity (p < 0.05). The WO group exhibited an enhancement in CMJ height (p < 0.05). In conclusion, UUS performance was improved in adolescent swimmers after five weeks of specific training, only when combining water and conical pulley exercises. Coaches should include dry-land specific lower limb exercises in addition to in-water training to improve UUS performance.		[Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus J.; Lopez-Belmonte, Oscar; Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco; Gay, Ana; Arellano, Raul] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Aquat Lab, Granada, Spain; [Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus J.] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Aquat Lab, Granada, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400005	47	Article; Article		
J	Perroni, Fabrizio; Amatori, Stefano; Corsi, Lorenzo; Bensi, Roberto; Guidetti, Laura; Baldari, Carlo; Rocchi, Marco B. L.; Castagna, Carlo; Gobbi, Erica; Sisti, Davide; Buzzachera, Cosme Franklim								Assessment of Performance in Youth Soccer Players: Should We Consider the Maturation Status?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				119	131		10.5114/jhk/184276			JUL 2024	2024	The influence of biological maturity status on talent identification and development in youth soccer has been debated extensively. Alternative methods have thus recently emerged to estimate maturity status, such as the Pubertal Development Scale (PDS), but their relationship with physical capabilities of young soccer players still needs to be determined. The present study investigated the relationships of different PDS-derived pubertal status measures, chronological age, and relative age with selected performance variables in youth soccer. Sixty-one male soccer players were assessed for physical capabilities using field tests for sprinting, vertical jumps (countermovement jump, CMJ), intermittent high-intensity endurance, and repeated sprint ability. Chronological age was defined as the number of days since birth, and relative age was defined in terms of age quarters. PDS-derived measures of puberal status, otherwise, were determined as an average PDS score, a PDS category score, and a pubertal category. Chronological age, relative age, and measures of pubertal status were scarcely related (p > 0.05) to selected measures of soccer performance. Significant correlations were only found between different measures of pubertal status and the variable "work" in the CMJ test (range r = 0.33-0.36; p < 0.01) and between chronological age and CMJ height (r = -0.297; p = 0.02). The present results suggest that physical performance of young soccer players is poorly related to chronological age, relative age, and pubertal status. Potential effects of biological maturity status on physical capabilities may not be easily identifiable in a group of young soccer players narrowed in terms of chronological age and training status.		[Perroni, Fabrizio; Amatori, Stefano; Bensi, Roberto; Castagna, Carlo; Gobbi, Erica] Univ Urbino Carlo Bo, Dept Biomol Sci, Sect Exercise & Hlth Sci, Urbino, Italy; [Perroni, Fabrizio] Museum Football FIGC Fdn, Italian Football Federat, Rome, Italy; [Perroni, Fabrizio] Italian Referee Assoc Italian Football Federat, Fitness Training Area, Rome, Italy; [Corsi, Lorenzo; Baldari, Carlo] eCampus Univ, Fac Psychol, Novedrate, Como, Italy; [Guidetti, Laura] Univ Niccolo Cusano, Unicusano Dept, Rome, Italy; [Rocchi, Marco B. L.; Sisti, Davide] Univ Urbino Carlo Bo, Dept Biomol Sci, Serv Biostat, Urbino, Italy; [Castagna, Carlo] Tech Dept Italian Football Federat, Fitness Training & Biomech Lab, Florence, Italy; [Buzzachera, Cosme Franklim] Univ Pavia, Dept Publ Hlth Expt & Forens Med, Pavia, Italy; [Amatori, Stefano] Univ Urbino Carlo Bo, Dept Biomol Sci, Sect Exercise & Hlth Sci, Urbino, Italy								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400010	47	Article; Article		
J	Kurt, Cem; Tuna, Gokhan; Kurtdere, Imren								Acute Effects of Slow, Moderate and Fast Tempo Dynamic Stretching Exercises on Power in Well-Trained Male Wrestlers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				155	165		10.5114/jhk/183543			JUL 2024	2024	Due to the potential detrimental effects of static stretching exercises on subsequent muscle power performance, athletes and trainers have started to replace static stretching with dynamic stretching exercises in their training routines. However, there are no well-accepted guidelines regarding dynamic stretching variables, including tempo/velocity, volume (reps and sets), etc. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the acute effects of slow, moderate, and fast tempo dynamic stretching exercises on jump height, relative power, the reactive strength index, and leg stiffness in well-trained male wrestlers. Seventeen wrestlers (aged 20.00 +/- 4.06 years, wrestling experience 6.00 +/- 3.09 years, and training volume per week 10.00 +/- 5.69 hours) took part in the experiment under four conditions (control session, slow tempo dynamic stretching, moderate tempo dynamic stretching, and fast tempo dynamic stretching) on separate days with a 72-h interval in between, following a randomized, crossover study design. The control session consisted of a 10-min jog on a motordriven treadmill at 6 km/h and a 0% slope. Dynamic stretching sessions consisted of seven dynamic stretching exercises performed at 50 bpm, 100 bpm, and 120 bpm, following a 5-min warm-up on a treadmill at 6 km/h and a 0% slope. After each condition, wrestlers performed a 2 x 30-s repeated vertical jump test with 5-min rest intervals in between. The best results for jump height, relative power, the reactive strength index, and leg stiffness were registered for statistical analysis. One-way repeated ANOVA results demonstrated that there were no significant differences in pairwise comparisons of all variables obtained after the four different conditions (p > 0.05). Overall, none of the slow, moderate, and fast tempo dynamic stretching exercises led to a change in repeated jump performance of well-trained male athletes. Further studies are needed to clarify the acute effects of different tempo dynamic stretching on muscular performance in well-trained wrestlers.		[Kurt, Cem; Tuna, Gokhan] Trakya Univ, Kirkpinar Sch Sport Sci, Div Movement & Training Sci, Edirne, Turkiye; [Kurtdere, Imren] Istanbul Univ Cerrahpasa, Inst Grad Studies, Div Movement & Training Sci, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Kurt, Cem] Trakya Univ, Kirkpinar Sch Sport Sci, Div Movement & Training Sci, Edirne, Turkiye								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400013	32	Article; Article		
J	Douchet, Tom; Paizis, Christos; Carling, Christopher; Babault, Nicolas								Influence of a Modified versus a Typical Microcycle Periodization on the Weekly External Loads and Match Day Readiness in Elite Academy Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				133	144		10.5114/jhk/182984			JUL 2024	2024	A typical weekly periodization strategy in soccer positions the most demanding sessions four and three days before the match-day (MD-4/MD-3). However, a modified periodization strategy could intersperse the two most demanding sessions with a low-load training session. This study aimed to investigate the impact of these periodizations on external loads and MD readiness. Twenty academy players were tested. The modified weekly periodization strategy included a low-load training session between the two most demanding sessions, while the typical periodization implemented them consecutively. Players wore a GPS and rated their perceived exertion (RPE) during the most demanding sessions. Players were also tested using a CMJ, a 20-m sprint, the Illinois agility test (IAT), and the Hooper questionnaire on MD-4 to obtain baseline values (CONTROL) and on the match-day (TEST). CONTROL values were similar during experimental weeks. During the second most demanding session, players covered greater distances for the modified versus the typical periodization in the 20-25 km/h (306.3 +/- 117.1 m vs. 223.5 +/- 92.2 m, p < 0.05) and >25 km/h speed zones (89.5 +/- 44.8 m vs. 67.2 +/- 44.5 m, p < 0.05). On the MD, CMJ, 20-m sprint, and IAT performances were similar between both periodizations. However, 10-m time (1.89 +/- 0.10 s vs. 1.92 +/- 0.09 s, p < 0.05) and the Hooper index score (7.90 +/- 2.14 a.u. vs. 9.50 +/- 3.44 a.u., p < 0.05) were significantly lower during the modified periodization strategy. A decreased training load session positioned between the most demanding sessions may be of interest in elite academy soccer players as it can lead to increased weekly external loads and readiness on the MD.		[Douchet, Tom; Paizis, Christos; Babault, Nicolas] Univ Bourgogne, INSERM, UFR Sci Sport, Dijon, France; [Douchet, Tom; Paizis, Christos; Babault, Nicolas] Univ Bourgogne, Ctr Expertise Performance, UFR Sci Sport, Dijon, France; [Douchet, Tom] Dijon Football Cote Or DFCO, Dijon, France; [Carling, Christopher] Federat Francaise Football FFF, Paris, France; [Carling, Christopher] French Inst Sport INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, Paris, France; [Douchet, Tom] Univ Bourgogne, INSERM, UFR Sci Sport, Dijon, France; [Douchet, Tom] Univ Bourgogne, Ctr Expertise Performance, UFR Sci Sport, Dijon, France; [Douchet, Tom] Dijon Football Cote Or DFCO, Dijon, France								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400011	34	Article; Article		
J	Buxton, Jeffrey D.; Grose, Holly M.; Deluca, Joseph D.; Donofrio, Troy P.; LePre, Vincent R.; Parrish, Clayton W.; Gerhart, Hayden D.; Prins, Philip J.								The Effects of Slow Breathing during Inter-Set Recovery on Power Performance in the Barbell Back Squat								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				93	103		10.5114/jhk/185935			JUL 2024	2024	Slow breathing (SB) reduces sympathetic nervous system activity, the heart rate (HR), and blood pressure (BP) and increases parasympathetic nervous system activity, HR variability, and oxygen saturation which may lead to quicker recovery between bouts of exercise. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to examine whether a SB technique using the 4-7-8 method between sets of barbell back squats (SQs) would attenuate drops in power and bar velocity. In a randomized, crossover design, 18 healthy resistance-trained college-aged males (age: 20.7 +/- 1.4 years, body height: 178.6 +/- 6.4 cm, body mass: 82.2 +/- 15.0 kg, 4.5 +/- 2.4 years of experience) performed 5 sets of 3 repetitions of SQs with normal breathing (CON) or SB during the 3-min recovery between sets. Peak and average power and bar velocity were assessed using a linear positioning transducer. HR recovery (RHR), systolic BP recovery (RBP), the rating of perceived exertion (RPE) and the rating of perceived recovery score (RS) were assessed after each set. There were no significant differences between conditions for peak and average power and bar velocity, RBP, RPE, and RS (p > 0.211). SB led to a greater RHR after set 2 (SB: 51.0 +/- 14.9 bpm vs. CON: 44.5 +/- 11.5 bpm, p = 0.025) and 3 (SB: 48.3 +/- 13.5 bpm vs. CON: 37.7 +/- 11.7 bpm, p = 0.006) compared to the CON condition. SB was well tolerated, did not hinder nor improve training performance and improved RHR after the middle sets of SQs. Further investigations are warranted to examine the effects of other SB techniques and to determine SB's effects on different training stimuli as well as its effects over an entire workout and post-workout recovery metrics.		[Buxton, Jeffrey D.; Grose, Holly M.; Deluca, Joseph D.; Donofrio, Troy P.; LePre, Vincent R.; Parrish, Clayton W.; Gerhart, Hayden D.; Prins, Philip J.] Grove City Coll, Dept Exercise Sci, Grove City, PA 16127 USA; [Buxton, Jeffrey D.] Grove City Coll, Dept Exercise Sci, Grove City, PA 16127 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400008	35	Article; Article		
J	Turek, Lily; Doma, Kenji; Sinclair, Wade; Connor, Jonathan								Positional Differences in Decision-Making Situations during Professional Rugby League Match-Play								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93							10.5114/jhk/186559			JUL 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to explore the types and frequency of decision-making situations of rugby league players during defensive situations and examine whether they were predictive of key performance indicators (KPI). Fifteen elite rugby league matches were coded using notational analysis methods. Specific defensive situations were analysed, including the number of: one-on-one situations with an opposing attacker (1-on-1), two-on-one situations (2-on-1), and combined 1-on-1 and 2-on-1 situations (i.e., total decisions; TDs). There was no relationship between the game outcome and game KPIs for TDs or 1-on-1 decision-making situations. However, successful tackles and missed tackles were predictive of 2-on-1 decision-making situations. Positional differences revealed that back rowers were exposed to the greatest number of decision-making situations, while wingers had the lowest exposure. The total number of decisions and the number of 1-on-1 decisions made by the centres and wingers were significant predictors of line breaks. Additionally, 2-on-1 decisions were significant predictors of line breaks for backrowers. The findings of this study suggest that the type and frequency of decision-making situations in Rugby League are position specific. Practical applications for coaches are discussed to ensure that practice approaches are representative of the various defensive decision-making demands players experience during a game, based on their position.		[Turek, Lily; Doma, Kenji; Sinclair, Wade; Connor, Jonathan] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Australia; [Doma, Kenji] Orthopead Inst Queensland, Townsville, Australia; [Sinclair, Wade] North Queensland Cowboys Rugby League Football Clu, Townsville, Australia; [Doma, Kenji] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Australia; [Doma, Kenji] Orthopead Inst Queensland, Townsville, Australia								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400017	30	Article; Article		
J	Piqueras-Sanchiz, Francisco; Martin-Rodriguez, Saul; Cornejo-Daza, Pedro J.; Sanchez-Valdepenas, Juan; Serrano-Gomez, Virginia; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando; Garcia-Garcia, Oscar								Identification of Peripheral Fatigue through Exercise-Induced Changes in Muscle Contractility								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				145	154		10.5114/jhk/185297			JUL 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to assess whether tensiomyography is a tool sensitive enough to detect peripheral fatigue. Twenty-six strength-trained men were split into two groups: 1) a fatigued group (FG), who performed a fullsquat (SQ) standardized warm-up plus 3 x 8 SQs with 75% 1RM with a 5-min rest interval, and 2) a non-fatigued group (NFG), who only did the SQ standardized warm-up. The countermovement jump (CMJ), maximal isometric force (MIF) in the SQ at 90 degrees knee flexion, and TMG in vastus medialis (VM) and vastus lateralis (VL) muscles were assessed preand post-protocols. Data were analyzed through mixed ANOVA, logistic regression analysis, and receiver-operating curves. There were significant group x time interactions (p < 0.01) for CMJ height, MIF, maximal radial displacement (Dm), and radial displacement velocity (Vrd90) since the FG acutely decreased in these variables, while no significant changes were observed for the NFG. The logistic regression showed a significant model for detecting fatigue, whether it used the CMJ or MIF, with only the relative change in VL-Vrd90 as a fatigue predictor. The determination of the area under the curve showed that Dm and Vrd90 had good to excellent discriminative ability. Dm and Vrd90 are sensitive to detect fatigue in VL and VM muscles in resistance training contexts.		[Piqueras-Sanchiz, Francisco; Cornejo-Daza, Pedro J.] Univ Pablo Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Martin-Rodriguez, Saul] Univ Las Palmas Gran Canaria, Dept Phys Educ, Las Palmas Gran Canaria, Spain; [Sanchez-Valdepenas, Juan; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando] Univ Pablo Olavide, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Serrano-Gomez, Virginia; Garcia-Garcia, Oscar] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Sport Performance Phys Condit & Wellness Lab, Pontevedra, Spain; [Garcia-Garcia, Oscar] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Sport Performance Phys Condit & Wellness Lab, Pontevedra, Spain								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400012	32	Article; Article		
J	Barbieri, Ricardo Augusto; Kalva-Filho, Carlos Augusto; Faria, Murilo Henrique; Silveira-Ciola, Aline Prieto; Torriani-Pasin, Camila; Simieli, Lucas; Barbieri, Fabio Augusto								Parkinson's Critical Heart Rate Test: Applying the Critical Power Model for People with Parkinson's Disease								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				81	92		10.5114/jhk/186562			JUL 2024	2024	Aerobic exercise with the correct intensity can attenuate motor and non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) and improve the quality of life. However, a specific, validated, non-invasive, and outside the laboratory protocol that assesses physiological variables to prescribe optimal aerobic exercise intensity for people with PD is nonexistent. Therefore, this study aimed to propose a protocol, the Parkinson's critical heart rate test (Parkinson-CHR test), to determine the critical heart rate (CHR) in individuals with PD and verify its validity, reliability, and sensitivity. Fifteen people with idiopathic PD, who were able to practice exercises, were recruited to participate in the study (71.1 +/- 6.6 years). The study consisted of two experiments: i) the first one aimed to assess the validity and reliability of the protocol, with participants performing the test twice at a one-week interval; ii) the second experiment aimed to investigate the protocol sensitivity, with individuals being evaluated before and after an 8-week training program according to Parkinson-CHR intensity. In experiment 1, no differences between test and retest were observed in the time to cover the distances (400, 800 and 1200 m), the total heart rate, the critical heart rate, and critical speed (p > 0.05). In experiment 2, there was a reduction in time to cover 400 and 800 m as well as in the total heart rate for all distances after the 8-week training program. The Parkinson-CHR test is a reliable, reproducible, inexpensive, and non-invasive protocol to assess, prescribe, and monitor aerobic exercise intensity in people with PD.		[Barbieri, Ricardo Augusto; Kalva-Filho, Carlos Augusto] Univ Bologna UNIBO, Dept Life Qual Studies, Rimini, Italy; [Barbieri, Ricardo Augusto; Faria, Murilo Henrique; Silveira-Ciola, Aline Prieto; Simieli, Lucas; Barbieri, Fabio Augusto] Sao Paulo State Univ Unesp, Sch Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Human Movement Res Lab MOVI LAB, Bauru, SP, Brazil; [Torriani-Pasin, Camila] Univ Texas El Paso, Dept Phys Therapy & Movement Sci, El Paso, TX USA; [Barbieri, Ricardo Augusto] Univ Bologna UNIBO, Dept Life Qual Studies, Rimini, Italy								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400007	27	Article; Article		
J	Chiron, Francois; Thomas, Claire; Bardin, Joffrey; Mullie, Florence; Bennett, Samuel; Cheradame, Jeremy; Caliz, Laurine; Hanon, Christine; Tiollier, Eve								Influence of Ingestion of Bicarbonate-Rich Water Combined with an Alkalizing or Acidizing Diet on Acid-Base Balance and Anaerobic Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				105	117		10.5114/jhk/182986			JUL 2024	2024	During high-intensity (HI) exercise, metabolic acidosis significantly impairs exercise performance. Increasing the body's buffering capacity through training and exogenous intake of alkalizing supplements may improve highintensity performance. Manipulating water and diet intake may influence the acid-base balance. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of mineral water rich in bicarbonate ions (STY) or placebo water (PLA) on circulating biomarkers and anaerobic performance and to verify whether alkalizing (ALK) or acidizing (ACI) diet would modulate these effects. Twenty-four athletes, assigned either to ALK (n = 12) or ACI (n = 12) diet for four weeks, completed a 1min rowing Wingate Test in a double-blind and randomized trial after one week of daily hydration (1.5 to 2L/d) with either STY or PLA. Blood samples were taken before and after each test, and urine samples were collected each week. Chronic consumption of bicarbonate-rich water significantly impacted resting urinary pH irrespective of alkalizing or acidizing dietary intake. STY induced a significant increase in blood pH, lactate, and HCO3- ion concentration postexercise compared to PLA. Similar changes were observed when STY was associated with the ALK diet. In contrast, STY combined with the ACI diet only significantly affected urine pH and peak blood lactate compared to PLA (p < 0.05). No effect of bicarbonate-rich water was reported on anaerobic performance (p > 0.05). Our results suggest that consumption of bicarbonate-rich water alters acid-base balance during a warm-up and after HI exercise, could potentiate beneficial effects of an alkalizing diet on the acid-base balance after HI exercise, and reduces the acid load induced by an acidifying diet.		[Chiron, Francois; Thomas, Claire] Univ Paris Saclay, Univ Evry, LBEPS, IRBA, Evry, France; [Chiron, Francois; Hanon, Christine] French Federat Athlet FFA, Paris, France; [Thomas, Claire; Bardin, Joffrey; Caliz, Laurine; Hanon, Christine; Tiollier, Eve] French Natl Inst Sport INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance SEP, Paris, France; [Mullie, Florence; Cheradame, Jeremy] French Federat Rugby FFR, Marcoussis, France; [Bennett, Samuel] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci RISES, Liverpool, England; [Chiron, Francois] Univ Paris Saclay, Univ Evry, LBEPS, IRBA, Evry, France; [Chiron, Francois] French Federat Athlet FFA, Paris, France								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400009	30	Article; Article		
J	Ozaki, Yusuke; Ueda, Takeshi								The Relationship between Take-Off Parameters and Relative Vertical Momentum of Free Limbs at the Take-Off in Hurdle Clearance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				41	52		10.5114/jhk/176106			JUL 2024	2024	This study aimed to clarify the kinetics of the relative vertical momentum to the proximal joint of each free limb and their contribution to the increase in the centre of mass height at the take-off of hurdle clearance, as well as their relationship with take-off variables. Thirteen male hurdlers cleared one hurdle at the height of their centre of mass, and their attempts were filmed using six high-speed cameras. The hurdle height was 96.54 +/- 2.63 cm (55.35 +/- 0.29% of body height). The approach distance was set at 15 m and adjusted by each hurdler in the range of 10-50 cm so as not to involve any noticeable step length adjustment before the take-off. The combined free limb relative vertical momentum tended to increase until mid-support and was maintained until the toe off. The smaller the whole-body vertical momentum at the toe off and the increase in relative vertical momentum of the lead leg during the take-off, the higher the take-off velocity, the shorter the support time, and the smaller the deceleration. The higher the relative vertical momentum of the forward swing arm during touchdown and the smaller the relative vertical momentum increase of the combined free limb and the forward swing arm during the take-off, the smaller the deceleration. In conclusion, hurdlers should reduce the increase in whole-body vertical momentum at the take-off by suppressing the increase in relative vertical momentum of the lead leg and the forward swing arm.		[Ozaki, Yusuke] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Humanities & Social Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan; [Ozaki, Yusuke] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Humanities & Social Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400004	34	Article; Article		
J	Cui, Jianing; Liu, Jixiang; Li, Chunlei								Enhancing Training Precision: Unveiling the Barbell Velocity's Role in Tailoring the Resistance Load for the China Badminton Team								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				167	180		10.5114/jhk/183444			JUL 2024	2024	Velocity-based resistance training is a fundamental component of sports science, offering a systematic approach to investigating the load variables of resistance exercises. This research focused on assessing the load across various resistance exercises by examining the barbell velocity during the concentric phase. The study involved 11 male athletes representing the China badminton team, who underwent 1RM testing for bench press, hip thrust, back squat, and single leg press exercises and the maximum repetition testing at load intensities of 60%, 70%, 80%, and 90% of 1RM. Simultaneously, measurements were taken of the barbell's concentric phase velocity during each exercise. The findings revealed a robust negative correlation between barbell velocity and load intensity. Furthermore, exercises engaging greater muscle strength displayed smoother fitting curves. Analysis of velocity loss rates indicated that the hip thrust exhibited a higher completion percentage compared to the back squat and the bench press. Similarly, the non-dominant leg press showed a higher completion percentage than the dominant leg press. The study emphasizes the significance of delineating barbell velocity distributions in resistance training involving large muscle groups, as well as the accurate determination of load intensity. Precise load determination can be facilitated by employing fitting curves derived from distinct movement patterns and varying load intensities. The utilization of velocity data offers a quantifiable approach to achieving targeted training outcomes.		[Cui, Jianing] Shanxi Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Taiyuan, Peoples R China; [Liu, Jixiang] Changzhi Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Changzhi, Peoples R China; [Li, Chunlei] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Strength & Conditioning Training, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Liu, Jixiang] Changzhi Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Changzhi, Peoples R China								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400014	40	Article; Article		
J	Pinilla-Arbex, Javier; Perez-Tejero, Javier; Van Biesen, Debbie; Polo, Ignacio; Janssens, Luc; Vanlandewijck, Yves								Cognitive Development and Decision Making in Basketball: A Comparison between Male Players with and without Intellectual Impairment and across Different Age-Groups								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				93				231	243		10.5114/jhk/185430			JUL 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to investigate the role of age and intellectual impairment (II) in decision-making in basketball. The current study investigated differences in decision making between equally well-trained adult basketball male players with intellectual impairment (players with II) (n = 93), adults without II (senior) (n = 44) and youth basketball players (under-14, n = 31; under-16, n = 25; under-18, n = 30). A computer test was developed composed by 20 photographs displaying various basketball game-situations, and participants had to decide as fast as possible what the player in ball possession should do: dribble, pass or shoot. Decision time and accuracy were recorded for every situation. Players with II had slower decision time (3.8 +/- 1.8 s vs. 1.5 +/- 0.5 s, p < 0.001) and less decision-making accuracy (15.7 +/- 2.8 correct decisions vs. 17.9 +/- 1.2 correct decisions, p < 0.001) compared to senior players without II. Discriminant analysis with speed and accuracy as independent variables classified 91.2% (CCA = 0.769) of the players correctly into their group: players with II or players without II. A Spearman correlation revealed that age correlated significantly (p < 0.001) with the number of correct decisions (rs = 0.269) and mean decision time (rs = -0.331). Our findings support that decision making in basketball develops with age and experience, but is significantly deteriorated in experienced adult players who have II. Decision-making should be considered as an important eligibility criterion to participate in competitive basketball events for male players with II.		[Pinilla-Arbex, Javier] Comillas Pontif Univ, Fac Humanities & Social Sci, Alcobendas, Spain; [Perez-Tejero, Javier; Polo, Ignacio] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sanitas Fdn Chair Inclus Sport Studies, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, INEF, Madrid, Spain; [Van Biesen, Debbie; Vanlandewijck, Yves] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Movement & Rehabil Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Janssens, Luc] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Campus Grp T Leuven, Elect Engn ESAT TC, Leuven, Belgium; [Vanlandewijck, Yves] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci GIH, Stockholm, Sweden; [Pinilla-Arbex, Javier] Comillas Pontif Univ, Fac Humanities & Social Sci, Alcobendas, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001274058400019	41	Article; Article		
J	Klein, Matthew; Patterson, Chris; Karim, Annette; Cuddeford, Tyler								Running biomechanical and isokinetic strength differences in masters runners with and without Achilles tendinopathy								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			1943	1956		10.1080/14763141.2024.2373376			JUL 3 2025	2025	Masters runners are an increasing proportion of the running community. The most significant musculoskeletal changes in runners occur after the age of 50 in addition to changes in injury rates and types, the most common being Achilles tendinopathy (AT). Previous evidence has suggested similarities between risk factors for AT and age-related changes that are focused at the hip and the ankle during the propulsive stage of running. The purpose of this study was to investigate biomechanical and peak torque association to AT in masters runners. Thirty-two masters runners over age 50 with AT (60.31 +/- 8.37, n = 16) and without (59.94 +/- 4.95 n = 16) were included. 3D motion capture and force plates were used to assess running biomechanics. A motor-driven dynamometer was used to assess isokinetic peak torque production. No significant differences in running biomechanics were found between masters runners with and without AT. Hip peak isokinetic torque production was found to be significantly less in masters runners with AT, but no significant differences in ankle plantarflexion peak isokinetic torque production were found. Masters runners with AT may be able to adapt their running biomechanics and muscular torque production during submaximal running efforts. Masters runners with Achilles tendinopathy do not demonstrate differences in peak hip extension moments during the stance phase of running during submaximal efforts compared to healthy masters runners.Masters runners with Achilles tendinopathy do not demonstrate differences in peak ankle plantarflexion moments during the stance phase of running during submaximal efforts compared to healthy masters runners.Masters runners with Achilles tendinopathy do not demonstrate differences in peak ankle plantarflexion concentric or eccentric isokinetic torque compared to healthy masters runners.Masters runners with Achilles tendinopathy demonstrate differences in peak hip extension concentric and eccentric isokinetic torque compared to healthy masters runners.		[Klein, Matthew] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Azusa, CA 91702 USA; [Klein, Matthew; Patterson, Chris; Karim, Annette] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Rehabil & Movement Sci, Azusa, CA 91702 USA; [Klein, Matthew; Patterson, Chris; Karim, Annette] West Coast Univ Ctr Grad Studies, Dept Phys Therapy, Los Angeles, CA 90004 USA; [Cuddeford, Tyler] George Fox Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Newberg, OR USA; [Klein, Matthew] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Azusa, CA 91702 USA; [Klein, Matthew] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Rehabil & Movement Sci, Azusa, CA 91702 USA; [Klein, Matthew] West Coast Univ Ctr Grad Studies, Dept Phys Therapy, Los Angeles, CA 90004 USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001259267400001	47	Article; Article		
J	Drole, Kristina; Pori, Primoz; Jerin, Ales; Kren, Aljaz; Paravlic, Armin H.								Anabolic/Catabolic Hormone Imbalance but Still Jumping Further? Negative Association of Free Testosterone With Jumping Performance in Elite Handball Players Following a Preparatory Period								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			938	944		10.1080/02701367.2024.2353715			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: The present study investigated the effects of a 10-week preparatory training period on biomarkers and jumping performance and associations of changes in biomarkers, load, and jumping performance from the beginning (PRE) to the end of the preparatory period (POST) in elite handball players. Methods: Seventeen elite handball players competing in the first Slovenian men's League were recruited. Training, competition and academic loads were reported weekly, while biomarkers and jumping performance were assessed at PRE and POST. Results: At POST, decreased levels of free testosterone (large effect size [ES] = -1.69, p < .001) and free testosterone to cortisol ratio [FTCR] (large ES = -.95, p = .004) were observed; whereas, better performance on the single leg lateral hop test [SLLH] (large ES = .85, p = .007) and single leg triple hop test [SLTH] (large ES = 1.05, p = .002) were observed compared to PRE. Furthermore, changes in FTCR correlated with changes in cortisol (high r = -.751, p = .001), SLLH (moderate r = -.603, p = .022), and SLTH (moderate r = -.643, p = .013), while changes in free testosterone correlated with SLTH (moderate r = -.645, p = .013). Conclusions: High intensity trainings with a saturated competition schedule can result in disturbed anabolic/catabolic hormone ratio observed through FTCR decrease, which could indicate either an optimal state or early exhaustiveness. It seems that SLLH and SLTH are more sensitive to changes in biomarkers than a single leg hop test. Sport professionals may use the results for individualized monitoring of an athlete's health and performance, specifically, as an aid for adjusting training loads accordingly to prevent performance declines and potential injury/illness events.		[Drole, Kristina; Pori, Primoz; Jerin, Ales; Kren, Aljaz; Paravlic, Armin H.] Univ Ljubljana, Inst Kinesiol, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia; [Jerin, Ales] Univ Med Ctr Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Paravlic, Armin H.] Masaryk Univ, Masaryk, Czech Republic; [Paravlic, Armin H.] Inst Kinesiol Res, Sci & Res Ctr Koper, Koper, Slovenia; [Drole, Kristina] Univ Ljubljana, Inst Kinesiol, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001258495200001	41	Article; Article		
J	Moore, Andrew Ray; Butler, Brooke An Shaohua								Immersive Virtual Reality Decreases Work Rate and Manipulates Attentional Focus During Self-Regulated Vigorous Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			963	973	2356893	10.1080/02701367.2024.2356893			OCT 1 2024	2024	To determine the effect of immersive virtual reality use on finishing time of a vigorous-intensity self-regulated exercise task, and on relevant psychological variables. Healthy untrained adults (N = 21; 10 men/11 women; age = 22.9 +/- 7.2 years; BMI = 24.0 +/- 4.5 kg/m(2)) completed 1500-m exercise bouts on a rowing ergometer in a counterbalanced and randomized order, with and without use of a headset-delivered virtual reality fitness program. Heart rate, rating of perceived exertion, affective valence, and attentional focus were collected every 300 m, in addition to finishing time. Data were analyzed with repeated measures as appropriate. Intensity of both exercise bouts was considered vigorous according to heart rate results (>77% maximal heart rate). Finishing time was faster in the control condition (449.57 +/- 82.39 s) than in the virtual reality condition (463.00 +/- 91.78 s), p = .007. Compared to the control condition, the virtual reality condition was characterized by a more external attentional focus (52.38 +/- 18.22 vs. 38.76 +/- 17.81, p < .001). No differences were observed for remaining variables as a result of condition (p > .05 for all). When a headset-delivered VR program was used during a self-regulated vigorous-intensity exercise task, participants were 13.6 seconds (similar to 3%) slower than in a control condition. Attentional focus was manipulated to be more external with VR use, which may have ultimately distracted from the exercise objective. Recommendations for selecting an appropriate virtual reality experience for a given exercise task are discussed.		[Moore, Andrew Ray; Butler, Brooke An Shaohua] Augusta Univ, Augusta, GA USA; [Moore, Andrew Ray] Augusta Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 1120 15th St, Augusta, GA 30912 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001258493600001	62	Article; Article		
J	Abellan-Aynes, Oriol; Segado, Francisco; Menayo, Ruperto; Manzanares, Aaron								Steadiness of technical variables as a determinant factor of performance in a virtual simulated regatta								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3478	3489		10.1080/14763141.2024.2368700			DEC 1 2024	2024	The aim of this investigation is to explore the relationship between Optimist sailing performance with boat steadiness as well as the steadiness of cyclic variables related to sailors' technique, in the upwind leg of a regatta. Thirty-two sailors from the optimist class (16 bottom level and 16 top level) performed a regatta in a semi-immersive simulator which measures the instantaneous velocity, heading, boom, heel, and rudder angle and hiking effort. It was calculated the mean values as well as the short-term steadiness and long-term steadiness throughout the test. Top level and bottom level sailors were compared and the correlation between these variables and mean velocity were analysed. Significant differences were found between groups on mean values, STS values and LTS values as well as significant correlations ranging r values between 0.385 and 0.768. If the steadiness of sailing variables is considered, they appear as determinants of performance in Optimist class while this is not observed when analysing mean values.		[Abellan-Aynes, Oriol; Segado, Francisco; Manzanares, Aaron] UCAM Univ Catol Murcia, Fac Deporte, Murcia, Spain; [Abellan-Aynes, Oriol] UCAM Univ Catol Murcia, Int Chair Sport Med, Murcia, Spain; [Menayo, Ruperto] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ & Psicol, Badajoz, Spain; [Manzanares, Aaron] UCAM Univ Catol Murcia, Fac Deporte, Murcia, Spain								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001257380900001	28	Article; Article		
J	dos Santos, Yves S.; Rossato, Mateus; Carneiro, Neice B.; Franken, Marcos; Castro, Flavio Antonio de Souza; de Jesus, Kelly; de Jesus, Karla								Magnitude and direction of shoulder torque asymmetries between different angular velocities in competitive swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			1928	1942		10.1080/14763141.2024.2370978			JUL 3 2025	2025	Asymmetries in swimming can be the result of poor technique or coordination between limbs, reducing the ability to produce propulsive force and increasing resistive drag. Therefore, this study aimed to compare the magnitude and determine the consistency of isokinetic peak torque asymmetries between the angular velocities of in the shoulder joint movements of internal and external rotation, flexion, and extension. Twenty-one competitive swimmers performed concentric actions at 60 degrees/s (3 repetitions) and 180 degrees/s (20 repetitions) in the movements of internal and external rotation, flexion, and extension of the shoulders using an isokinetic dynamometer, with the peak torque and asymmetry index being common metrics across the tests. The results showed a greater magnitude of asymmetry in internal rotation (16.86 vs. 9.86; p = 0.007) and flexion (12.06 vs. 7.35; p = 0.008) at 60 vs. 180 degrees/s, respectively. The agreement levels of the direction of asymmetries between angular velocities were fair to substantial (Kappa: 0.40 to 0.69). Evaluating isokinetic torque in different movements and angular velocities resulted in different levels of asymmetry. Muscle force asymmetries can impact propulsion efficiency and movement coordination during swimming. Understanding muscle asymmetries allows the development of targeted and individualised training programmes to correct strength imbalances.		[dos Santos, Yves S.; Rossato, Mateus; Carneiro, Neice B.; de Jesus, Kelly; de Jesus, Karla] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Lab Human Performance, Manaus, AM, Brazil; [Franken, Marcos] Integrated Reg Univ Alto Uruguai & Missions, Hlth Sci Dept, Santiago, Rio Grande Do S, Brazil; [Franken, Marcos; Castro, Flavio Antonio de Souza] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Aquat Sports Res Grp, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande Do S, Brazil; [de Jesus, Karla] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Lab Human Performance, Manaus, AM, Brazil								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001257044300001	43	Article; Article		
J	Mattiussi, Adam M.; Shaw, Joseph W.; Price, Phil; Brown, Derrick D.; Cohen, Daniel D.; Lineham, Jack; Pedlar, Charles R.; Tallent, Jamie; Atack, Alexandra C.								Ankle mechanics during jump landings across different foot positions in professional ballet dancers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			1914	1927		10.1080/14763141.2024.2369913			JUL 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate the effect foot position on ankle joint mechanics and vertical ground reaction forces (vGRF) across jump landings in professional ballet dancers. Twenty-seven professional ballet dancers (men: 14; women: 13) attended one data collection session, completing five maximal countermovement jumps in parallel, first, second, fourth, and fifth positions. Three-dimensional ankle mechanics, landing vGRF variables, and jump height were recorded via a seven-camera motion capture system and one force platform. A repeated measures multivariate analysis of variance was used to assess the main effects foot position across all target variables. A linear discriminate analysis was conducted to investigate target variables across foot positions. Frontal and transverse plane ankle mechanics had the largest impact when discriminating between foot positions. Ankle power in the transverse plane during jump landing in fourth was double that of all other positions. Our findings suggest that ankle range of motion should be restored before returning to jumps in fourth and fifth positions following distal lower extremity injury. The multiplanar energy transfer observed indicates a need for specific exercises to develop multiplanar force and rate of force development of local structures around the ankle.		[Mattiussi, Adam M.; Shaw, Joseph W.; Price, Phil; Lineham, Jack; Pedlar, Charles R.; Atack, Alexandra C.] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Mattiussi, Adam M.; Shaw, Joseph W.] Royal Ballet, Royal Opera House, London, England; [Mattiussi, Adam M.] UK Sports Inst, Performance Rehabil, Bisham, England; [Brown, Derrick D.] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Dance Sci, Bern, Switzerland; [Cohen, Daniel D.] Univ Ind Santander, Fac Hlth Sci, Bucaramanga, Colombia; [Pedlar, Charles R.] Univ London, Div Surg & Intervent Sci, London, England; [Tallent, Jamie] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, Essex, England; [Tallent, Jamie] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Melbourne, Australia; [Mattiussi, Adam M.] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Mattiussi, Adam M.] Royal Ballet, Royal Opera House, London, England; [Mattiussi, Adam M.] UK Sports Inst, Performance Rehabil, Bisham, England								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001257030100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos; Lominchar-Ramos, Jose Maria; Jimenez-Ormeno, Ester; Comfort, Paul; Alonso-Aubin, Diego A.; Soriano, Marcos A.								The dynamic strength index is a reliable and feasible tool to assess neuromuscular performance in male and female handball players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1710	1724		10.1080/14763141.2024.2351612			JUN 3 2025	2025	The aim of this study was to explore the reliability and feasibility of the isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP) and dynamic strength index (DSI) in semi-professional handball players (seventeen male and eighteen female). A cross-sectional design was used to determine the test-retest reliability of several kinetic metrics registered with a force plates. The peak force, peak relative force, rate of force development (RFD 0-250 ms), and impulse 0-250 ms were selected from the IMTP test, whereas the peak propulsive force was chosen from the countermovement jump test to obtain the DSI. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC), coefficient of variation (CV), standard error of the measurement (SEM) and smallest detectable difference (SDD) were calculated. A paired sample t-test was also performed. No significant differences were found between the testing sessions for all variables, except for peak propulsive force for all players (p = 0.036) and DSI for female players (p = 0.037). Reliability for all kinetic metrics was good to excellent (ICC = 0.78-0.97), with low variability (CV <= 8.64%), being the SEM scores lower than SDD. In conclusion, the IMTP test and DSI are highly reliable and feasible tools for assessing neuromuscular performance in semi-professional handball players.		[Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte INEF, Deporte & Entrenamiento Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Lominchar-Ramos, Jose Maria] Univ Camilo Jose Cela, Ctr Profess Studies, Madrid, Spain; [Lominchar-Ramos, Jose Maria; Jimenez-Ormeno, Ester; Alonso-Aubin, Diego A.; Soriano, Marcos A.] Univ Camilo Jose Cela, HM Hosp, Fac Hlth Sci, Strength Training & Neuromuscular Performance STre, Madrid, Spain; [Comfort, Paul; Soriano, Marcos A.] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, England; [Comfort, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Strength & Power Res Grp, Joondalup, Australia; [Lominchar-Ramos, Jose Maria] Univ Camilo Jose Cela, Ctr Profess Studies, Madrid, Spain; [Lominchar-Ramos, Jose Maria] Univ Camilo Jose Cela, HM Hosp, Fac Hlth Sci, Strength Training & Neuromuscular Performance STre, Madrid, Spain								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001254048500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Sangyung; Kim, Young Hoon								Unveiling consumer loyalty dynamics: insights for golf club loyalty programs								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1018	1043		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2024-0071			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeWith the competitive nature of golf club operations, understanding the loyalty formation process is crucial for maintaining a competitive edge. This study investigated the sequential developmental stages of consumer loyalty, progressing through cognitive, affective, and conative stages.Design/methodology/approachThe study conducted a survey targeting consumers who have experienced golf club services in the United States. This study operationalized reliability and trust as key indicators of the cognitive stage, hedonic motivation and social engagement as indicators of the affective stage, and loyalty as the indicator of the conative stage.FindingsUsing structural equation modeling (SEM), this study found that reliability has a significantly positive influence on trust. Trust has a significantly positive influence on hedonic motivation and loyalty. Furthermore, hedonic motivation has a significantly positive influence on social engagement and loyalty.Originality/valueBy integrating these findings within the Cognitive-Affective-Conative (CAC) framework, this study contributes to both the theoretical literature on consumer loyalty and provides practical insights for golf club management.		[Lee, Sangyung] Natl Inst Green Technol, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Young Hoon] Coll Charleston, Dept Hospitality & Tourism Management, Charleston, SC USA; [Lee, Sangyung] Natl Inst Green Technol, Seoul, South Korea								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001250245600001	67	Article; Article		
J	Dapi, Genc; Cleather, Daniel J.; Murray, Maeve								Cross-Education of Skill: Assessment of Overhand Throwing Using Product- and Process-Oriented Assessment								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			910	919		10.1080/02701367.2024.2347990			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: The aims of the present study were to: (1) investigate the magnitude and direction of the cross-education effect in a unilateral sport skill (overhand throw) and (2) to establish which practice condition (dominant hand only or alternating hands) would yield the best results. Methods: The study involved three experimental groups of 11-year-old children (n = 59). The first group (n = 20) used only the dominant hand to throw the ball. The second group (n = 19) used the nondominant hand only, while the third (n = 20) alternated hands for each throw. A pre- and post-testing of both hands preceded and followed the intervention period. Results: The results of our study revealed no asymmetry in cross-education effect between the limbs for children's overhand ball throwing. It was also shown that training both hands is superior to training the dominant hand alone. Conclusion: Our findings would be of particular interest to physical education teachers and coaches of unilateral sports who are advised to review their unilateral skill teaching methods as bilateral training offers a superior approach to augmenting the process of motor learning and performance.		[Dapi, Genc] Univ Malta, Msida, Malta; [Cleather, Daniel J.; Murray, Maeve] St Marys Univ, San Antonio, TX USA; [Cleather, Daniel J.] Inst Globally Distributed Open Res & Educ IGDORE, Rewari, India; [Dapi, Genc] Univ Malta, Inst Phys Educ & Sport, Msida 2080, Malta; [Dapi, Genc] Univ Malta, Inst Phys Educ & Sport, Msida 2080, Malta								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001251646200001	49	Article; Article		
J	Boshielo, Patience M. (Matshepo); van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Viljoen, Carel; Botha, Tanita; de Villiers, Christina E. (Elizabeth); Ramagole, Dimakatso; Seyani, Limbikani; van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa) Janse								Illness is more prevalent than injury in trail runners participating in a mountainous ultra trail race								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			27	35		10.1080/00913847.2024.2367401			JAN 2 2025	2025	ObjectivesTrail running is a popular off-road sport involving running in natural environments over various terrains, often in remote locations. This study aims to investigate the epidemiology and risk factors of injuries and illnesses, i.e. medical encounters, on race day among trail runners in a high-altitude ultra trail race.MethodsThis descriptive cross-sectional study on an ultra trail race (38 km, 65 km and 100 km) in South Africa, included participants 18 years or older. Of the 331 race participants, 285(86.1%) consented to participate in the study. Data collection included demographic details, injuries (body region, specific body area, tissue type, pathology) and illnesses (organ system, symptom cluster, etiology). Risk factor analysis includes sex, age, weight, height, race distance, illness and injury history, training and running experience. Frequency (n, %), prevalence (%) and odds ratios (OR; 95%CI) are reported.ResultsEighty-nine (31.2%) individuals reported 131 medical encounters [49 injuries (37.4%); 82 illnesses (62.6%)]. Injuries were sustained by 14.7% of athletes, and 22.5% reported illnesses. For injuries, the lower limb was mainly involved (n = 41; 83.7%). Most injuries affected the foot (n = 18; 36.7%), ankle (n = 10; 20.4%) and knee (n = 7; 14.3%). Tissue types mainly involved skin (n = 21; 42.8%), ligament (n = 7; 14.3%) and muscle (n = 7; 14.3%). Multiple (n = 45; 54.9%) and gastrointestinal (n = 17; 20.7%) organ systems were mainly involved in illnesses. Only 100 km runners reported dehydration (n = 28; 31.5%), and one in every six of these runners (n = 5; 17.9%) did not finish. Runners reporting fatigue (n = 21; 23.6%) had a high (n = 8; 38.1%) did not finish rate. Two in every five participants (n = 36; 40.4%) with a medical encounter, did not finish. No medical encounter-associated risk factors were identified.ConclusionsIllnesses were more common than injuries during the mountainous ultra trail race. Sustaining a medical encounter increased the chance of not completing the race. Further research on the epidemiology of race day medical encounters in trail running is required.		[Boshielo, Patience M. (Matshepo); van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Ramagole, Dimakatso; Seyani, Limbikani; van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa) Janse] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Private Bag x 20, ZA-0028 Pretoria, South Africa; [Viljoen, Carel] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Pretoria, South Africa; [Viljoen, Carel] Amsterdam UMC, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Botha, Tanita] Univ Pretoria, Fac Nat & Agr Sci, Dept Stat, Pretoria, South Africa; [de Villiers, Christina E. (Elizabeth)] Snow Sports South Africa, Execut Comm, Kempton Pk, South Africa; [van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa) Janse] World Netball, Med Advisory Panel, Manchester, England; [Boshielo, Patience M. (Matshepo)] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Private Bag x 20, ZA-0028 Pretoria, South Africa								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001253668400001	41	Article; Article		
J	Fenton, Tienna; Bastida, Elena								Physical Activity and Sedentary Behaviors Trends Among Black High School Students, 2009-2019								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			920	929		10.1080/02701367.2024.2351903			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: Physical inactivity and sedentary behaviors are key contributors to the rising rates of childhood obesity. Though many adolescents are aware of the benefits of exercise, youth in America are not sufficiently active. This study examined changes in physical activity (PA), physical education (PE), and sedentary behaviors among Black adolescents. Methods: Pooled data from Black high school students (n = 2,233) who completed the Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) from 2009-2019 in Broward County, Florida, were analyzed. Logistic and linear regression models examined trends in selected physical activity indicators. Results: There were no significant changes in recommended physical activity levels (p = .829), daily physical activity (p = .44), PE class attendance (p = .054), or the average number of days of PA engagement (p = .304) for this time period. However, there was a significant decline in daily PE class attendance, the average number of days of PE attendance, and excessive television watching (p < .001). There were also increases in excessive video gaming and computer usage (p = .002). Conclusion: Adolescents' physical activity behaviors have not declined substantially over the past decade. However, sedentary behaviors, such as computer use and video gaming, have markedly increased. Results presented here should assist in broadening the understanding of Black adolescents' views on weight and physical activity and developing local programs and interventions to promote regular physical activity aimed at this population.		[Fenton, Tienna; Bastida, Elena] Florida Int Univ, 11200 SW 8th St,AHC5, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Fenton, Tienna] Florida Int Univ, 11200 SW 8th St,AHC5, Miami, FL 33199 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001252159500001	55	Article; Article		
J	Polyakova, Olga; Karagiorgos, Thomas; Anagnostopoulos, Christos; Alexandris, Kostas								Testing the relationships among involvement, sponsorship perceived fit and intention to purchase sponsors' products: the case of esports tournament viewers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	5			1000	1017		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2023-0246			SEP 25 2024	2024	PurposeDespite fast developments in esports sponsorship, limited research exists in the area of sponsorship evaluation in the esports context. The purpose of the present study was to test the relationships among esports involvement, sponsorship perceived fit and viewers' intention to buy the sponsor's products, and examine the degree to which perceived fit mediates the relationship between the involvement dimensions and intention.Design/methodology/approachThe study draws on the theoretical model of sponsorship effects proposed by Wakefield et al. (2020) and obtained quantitative data from sampling esports viewers (n = 285). Statistical analysis was carried out in three steps. Beyond the descriptive statistics, confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was conducted to assess the goodness of fit of the measurement model. The mediation analysis was performed at the end of the study.FindingsThe results supported the impact of one of the esports involvement dimensions (i.e. self-expression) on both perceived fit and esports viewers' intentions to buy sponsors' products. Involvement (self-expression) was found to have both direct and indirect relationships, through perceived fit, on purchase intentions. The study provided support for the associations among esports involvement dimensions, sponsorship perceived fit and purchase intentions.Practical implicationsThe practitioners should first consider the involvement profile of esports viewers. The more involved viewers will be more likely to have positive perceptions about the fit between the esports tournament and the sponsor.Originality/valueIt is the first study to test a sponsorship evaluation model in the context of esports users. It does so by including a more detailed measurement of involvement (with three-dimensions) in the hypothesized model.		[Polyakova, Olga] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sheffield Business Sch, Sheffield, England; [Karagiorgos, Thomas; Alexandris, Kostas] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Div Engn Management & Decis Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Div Engn Management & Decis Sci, Doha, Qatar								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001248841300001	97	Article; Article		
J	Evsikov, Eugene; Hristova, Velina; Vlaev, Ivo; Karabeliova, Sonya								Virtual active sports: identifying main barriers and facilitators for casual fitness fans								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	4			929	949		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2023-0213			AUG 21 2024	2024	PurposeThe aim of this study is to utilise the Theoretical Domains Framework (TDF) to identify the main barriers and facilitators of positive attitude towards trying Virtual Active Sports (VAS).Design/methodology/approach200 individuals took part in an online cross-sectional survey based on 11 domains within the TDF. Linear logistic regression analysis was performed on the participant's self-reported attitudes and believes. Based on the results from the regression analyses, a list of suggested behaviour change techniques was designed using the Behaviour Change Wheel (BCW) framework and the BCT taxonomy (BCTTv1).FindingsThis research suggested that Beliefs about Consequences, Beliefs about Capabilities, Goal Conflict, Coping Planning, and Environmental Context and Resources are the main factors, influencing the positive attitude towards VAS and the self-reported desire to try it in the future. Future interventions were recommended and supported by 22 possible BCTs identified using the BCW approach. The TDF and BCW proved to be useful models for identifying both internal and external factors influencing fitness fans during the adoption of the new sportstech.Originality/valueThe main contribution of the present work was the implementation of a structured and effective approach derived from the healthcare domain to design solutions for behaviour change in the emerging and expanding virtual sports context.		[Evsikov, Eugene; Vlaev, Ivo] Univ Warwick, Warwick Business Sch, Coventry, England; [Hristova, Velina; Karabeliova, Sonya] Sofia Univ St Kliment Ohridski, Sofia, Bulgaria; [Hristova, Velina] Bulgarian Acad Sci, Sofia, Bulgaria; [Vlaev, Ivo] Univ Warwick, Warwick Business Sch, Coventry, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001250135500001	76	Article; Article		
J	Cronstrom, Anna; Ageberg, Eva; Hager, Charlotte K.								Are demographics, physical function and psychological response associated with return to sport at one year following ACL-reconstruction?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				68				22	30		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.06.001			JUL 2024	2024	Objective: To determine the relative contribution of each of the following aspects: demographics, physical function, and patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs), including both physical and psychological constructs, to return to sport (RTS) (any level) one-year post anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional cohort study. Methods: We included data for 143 participants (73 women, mean (SD) age 24 (5.8) years) similar to one-year post-ACLR. Data comprised demographics, physical function (hop performance, hip and knee peak torque) and PROMs (Knee Osteoarthritis Outcome Score subscales, perceived stress, and ACL Return to Sport after Injury scale (ACL-RSI)). We then used a Z-normalized multivariable logistic regression model to establish the relative contribution of factors associated with RTS. Results: Sixty-four (45%) of the participants had returned to sport at one year post-ACLR. In the regression model, greater hip abduction peak torque (OR = 1.70, 95% CI; 1.01 to 2.84) and greater psychological readiness to RTS (OR = 2.32, 95% CI; 1.30 to 4.12) were the only variables associated with RTS (R-2 = 0.352). Conclusions: The significant contribution of hip abduction strength and psychological readiness to RTS was still relatively small, suggesting other potential factors explaining RTS which may not be captured by common RTS criteria.		[Cronstrom, Anna; Hager, Charlotte K.] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Umea, Sweden; [Cronstrom, Anna; Ageberg, Eva] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Lund, Sweden; [Cronstrom, Anna] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Umea, Sweden								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001301474000001	77	Article; Article		
J	Beermann, Simon; Hallmann, Kirstin; Dickson, Geoff; Naylor, Michael E.								The national rugby league and the Bundesliga: a study of brand hate								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	4			950	969		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2023-0145			AUG 21 2024	2024	PurposeThis study examined brand hate within the context of the (German) Bundesliga and (Australian) National Rugby League (NRL). The study pursued two research questions: (1) What types of brand hate were expressed towards the Bundesliga and the NRL? (2) To what extent did hateful comments attract more likes than non-hateful comments?Design/methodology/approachBrand hate was studied in the context of competition restrictions in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We analysed reader comments posted below online articles published in three German (119 articles and 8,975 comments) and three Australian online newspaper articles (116 articles and 4,858 reader comments). The data were analysed deductively.FindingsNon-parametric tests found that all types of brand hate were expressed. Approximately 85% of the hateful comments were mild, or more specifically, cold (n = 445 or approximately 53%), or cool (n = 250 or approximately 30%), or hot (n = 20 or approximately 2%). Hateful comments attracted more likes than non-hateful comments.Originality/valueThis study advances our understanding of how negative brand perceptions underpin an extreme negative emotional reaction in the form of brand hate. The empirical evidence enables brand managers to better address disgusted, angry, or contemptuous consumers (or stakeholders) and consider whether the feeling is enduring, strong or weak, and linked to either aggressive or passive behaviours.		[Beermann, Simon; Hallmann, Kirstin] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Dickson, Geoff] La Trobe Univ, Melbourne, Australia; [Naylor, Michael E.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Sport & Recreat, Auckland, New Zealand; [Naylor, Michael E.] Loughborough Univ London, Inst Sport Business, London, England; [Dickson, Geoff] La Trobe Univ, Melbourne, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001247753800001	92	Article; Article		
J	Erikstad, Martin Kjeoen; Hoigaard, Rune; Cote, Jean; Haugen, Tommy								Youth sport coaches' perceptions of participating in the Transformational Coaching Workshop - A qualitative evaluation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2261	2271		10.1177/17479541241260984			DEC 2024	2024	Transformational leadership in sports is generally associated with positive athlete outcomes. The Transformational Coaching Workshop was developed as a person-oriented workshop to enhance youth sport experiences. However, evidence of participants' perceptions of the workshop and how it may be improved is lacking. This study investigated coaches' perceptions of the Transformational Coaching Workshop, its outcomes and applications, and areas for improvement. Youth handball coaches were interviewed immediately (n = 10) and 6 months (n = 5) after participating in the Transformational Coaching Workshop, and the club's sporting director was interviewed 6 months following the workshop. Interviews were recorded and transcribed verbatim, and data were analysed using a reflexive thematic analysis. Overall, the workshop was well received by the coaches, highlighting the importance of a coach development program on the interpersonal aspect of coaching, and pinpointing relevant and practical examples and interactive learning experiences as effective components of the workshop. Furthermore, the workshop made the coaches more confident in their approach to leadership and provided tools and ideas for implementing transformational leadership in their daily coaching practices. It was also perceived to lead to actual behaviour changes, including challenging the players to take more responsibilities and fostering more frequent informal interactions and counselling with them. However, to ensure the long-term sustainability of the Transformational Coaching Workshop, additional follow-up activities such as seminars, colleague observations, and club involvement were recommended. In conclusion, this study contributes to the existing literature on the potential efficacy of the Transformational Coaching Workshop while identifying areas for further improvement.		[Erikstad, Martin Kjeoen; Hoigaard, Rune; Haugen, Tommy] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway; [Cote, Jean] Queens Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Studies, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Erikstad, Martin Kjeoen] Univ Agder, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Serv PB 422, NO-4604 Kristiansand, Norway; [Erikstad, Martin Kjeoen] Univ Agder, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Serv PB 422, NO-4604 Kristiansand, Norway								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001249110500001	52	Article; Article		
J	Bouvet, Antoine; Pla, Robin; Delhaye, Erwan; Nicolas, Guillaume; Bideau, Nicolas								Profiling biomechanical abilities during sprint front-crawl swimming using IMU and functional clustering of variabilities								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	7			1844	1864		10.1080/14763141.2024.2368064			JUL 3 2025	2025	This study aims to profile biomechanical abilities during sprint front crawl by identifying technical stroke characteristics, in light of performance level. Ninety-one recreational to world-class swimmers equipped with a sacrum-worn IMU performed 25 m all-out. Intra and inter-cyclic 3D kinematical variabilities were clustered using a functional double partition model. Clusters were analysed according to (1) swimming technique using continuous visualisation and discrete features (standard deviation and jerk cost) and (2) performance regarding speed and competition calibre using respectively one-way ANOVA and Chi-squared test as well as Gamma statistics. Swimmers displayed specific technical profiles of intra-cyclic (smoothy and jerky) and inter-cyclic stroke regulation (low, moderate and high repeatability) significantly discriminated by speed (p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.62) and performance calibre (p < 0.001, V = 0.53). We showed that combining high levels of both kinds of variability (jerky + low repeatability) are associated with highest speed (1.86 +/- 0.12 m/s) and competition calibre (gamma = 0.75, p < 0.001). It highlights the crucial importance of variabilities combination. Technical skills might be driven by a specific alignment of stroke pattern and its associated dispersion according to the task constraints. This data-driven approach can assist eyes-based technical evaluation. Targeting the development of an explosive swimming style with a high level of body stability should be considered during training of sprinters.		[Bouvet, Antoine; Delhaye, Erwan; Nicolas, Guillaume; Bideau, Nicolas] Univ Rennes 2, M2S Lab Movement Sport & Hlth, ENS Rennes, Bruz, France; [Bouvet, Antoine; Delhaye, Erwan; Nicolas, Guillaume; Bideau, Nicolas] INRIA Rennes Bretagne Atlantique, MIMETIC Anal Synth Approach Virtual Human Simulat, Rennes, France; [Bouvet, Antoine] CREST Ctr Res Econ & Stat, ENSAI, Rennes, France; [Pla, Robin] French Swimming Federat, Performance Optimisat Dept, Clichy, France; [Pla, Robin] Univ Paris Cite, IRMES Inst Rech Med & Epidemiol Sport, Paris, France; [Bouvet, Antoine] Univ Rennes 2, M2S Lab Movement Sport & Hlth, ENS Rennes, Bruz, France; [Bouvet, Antoine] INRIA Rennes Bretagne Atlantique, MIMETIC Anal Synth Approach Virtual Human Simulat, Rennes, France; [Bouvet, Antoine] CREST Ctr Res Econ & Stat, ENSAI, Rennes, France								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001250814400001	71	Article; Article		
J	Lin, Chia-Wei; Lin, Cheng-Feng; Jankaew, Amornthep; Chandee, Sirinad; Kuno-Mizumura, Mayumi								The role of muscle function and <i>pointe</i> shoe characteristics in <i>Arabesque</i> movement among ballet dancers with non-specific low back pain								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1769	1787		10.1080/14763141.2024.2366209			JUN 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate posterior chain muscle function and the influence of pointe shoes in ballet dancers with and without low back pain (LBP) in the Arabesque. Twenty-nine young professional ballet dancers (17 with LBP and 12 healthy controls) were recruited. Muscle strength and mechanical properties of the erector spinae and hamstrings were assessed. The displacement of centre of mass (COM) during Arabesque under different shoe conditions (R-class, Chacott, and own shoes) was measured with a motion capture system. The LBP group exhibited greater dynamic stiffness and decreased mechanical stress relaxation time in the lateral hamstring compared to the control group. During Arabesque, the LBP group demonstrated significantly greater anterior-posterior displacement of the COM and a larger percentage of time to achieve maximal trunk extension angle. The COM displacement in vertical and medial-lateral directions was smaller in the R-class than in their own shoes. LBP impacts muscle mechanical properties, particularly in the lateral hamstring. The compromised muscle function resulted in a longer time to spinal extension during Arabesque, signifying that reduced trunk control contributed to greater COM displacement. Hence, it is essential to emphasise that evaluating muscle properties and dynamic postural control is imperative for dancers experiencing LBP.		[Lin, Chia-Wei; Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Allied Hlth Sci, Coll Med, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng; Jankaew, Amornthep; Chandee, Sirinad] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Coll Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ Hosp, Phys Therapy Ctr, Tainan, Taiwan; [Kuno-Mizumura, Mayumi] Ochanomizu Univ, Grad Sch Humanities & Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Allied Hlth Sci, Coll Med, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Coll Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ Hosp, Phys Therapy Ctr, Tainan, Taiwan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001250729000001	49	Article; Article		
J	Behboodpour, Nikan; Halvorson, Brayden; Murias, Juan M.; Keir, Daniel; Belfry, Glen								A Comparison of Methods to Identify the Mean Response Time of Ramp-Incremental Exercise for Exercise Prescription								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			886	894		10.1080/02701367.2024.2346137			OCT 1 2024	2024	Introduction: The oxygen uptake (V<SUP><SUP>center dot</SUP></SUP>O<INF>2</INF>) vs power output relationship from ramp incremental exercise is used to prescribe aerobic exercise. As power output increases, there is a delay in V<SUP><SUP>center dot</SUP></SUP>O<INF>2</INF> that contributes to a misalignment of V<SUP><SUP>center dot</SUP></SUP>O<INF>2</INF> from power output; the mean response time (MRT). If the MRT is not considered in exercise prescription, ramp incremental-identified power outputs will elicit V<SUP><SUP>center dot</SUP></SUP>O<INF>2</INF> values that are higher than intended. We compared three methods of determining MRT (exponential modeling (MRT<INF>EXP</INF>), linear modeling (MRT<INF>LIN</INF>), and the steady-state method (MRT<INF>SS</INF>)) and evaluated their accuracy at predicting the V<SUP><SUP>center dot</SUP></SUP>O<INF>2</INF> associated with power outputs approximating 75% and 85% of gas exchange threshold and 15% of the difference between gas exchange threshold and maximal V<SUP><SUP>center dot</SUP></SUP>O<INF>2</INF> (Delta 15). Methods: Ten males performed a 30-W center dot min<SUP>-1</SUP> ramp incremental and three 30-min constant power output cycle ergometer trials with intensities at 75% gas exchange threshold, 85% gas exchange threshold, and triangle 15. At each intensity, the measured steady-state V<SUP><SUP>center dot</SUP></SUP>O<INF>2</INF> during each 30-min test was compared to the V<SUP><SUP>center dot</SUP></SUP>O<INF>2</INF> predicted after adjustment by each of the three MRTs. Results: For all three MRT methods, predicted V<SUP><SUP>center dot</SUP></SUP>O<INF>2</INF> was not different (p = 1.000) from the measured V<SUP><SUP>center dot</SUP></SUP>O<INF>2</INF> at 75%GET (MRT<INF>EXP</INF>, 31 mL, MRT<INF>LIN</INF>, -35 mL, MRT<INF>SS</INF> 11 mL), 85%gas exchange threshold (MRT<INF>EXP</INF> -14 mL, MRT<INF>LIN</INF> -80 mL, MRT<INF>SS</INF> -32 mL). At Delta 15, predicted V<SUP><SUP>center dot</SUP></SUP>O<INF>2</INF> based on MRT<INF>EXP</INF> was not different (p = .767) from the measured V<SUP><SUP>center dot</SUP></SUP>O<INF>2</INF>, but was different for MRT<INF>LIN</INF> (p < .001) and MRT<INF>SS</INF> (p = .03). Conclusion: Given that the intensity is below gas exchange threshold, all model predictions implemented from the current study matched the exercise prescription.		[Behboodpour, Nikan; Halvorson, Brayden; Keir, Daniel; Belfry, Glen] Univ Western Ontario, Sch Kinesiol, Thames Hall,1151 Richmond St, London, ON N6A 3K, Canada; [Murias, Juan M.] Univ Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Belfry, Glen] Univ Western Ontario, Sch Kinesiol, Thames Hall,1151 Richmond St, London, ON N6A 3K, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001251081900001	27	Article; Article		
J	Werneck, Francisco Zacaron; Coelho, Emerson Filipino; Matta, Marcelo de Oliveira; Silva, Rodrigo Cesar Pedrosa; Figueiredo, Antonio Jose Barata								Goldfit Soccer: A Multidimensional Model for Talent Identification of Young Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			895	909		10.1080/02701367.2024.2347983			OCT 1 2024	2024	Studies have provided empirical evidence on the prognostic relevance of test batteries and the "coach's eye" for talent identification. The aims were 1) to compare objective and subjective assessments as well as a combined soccer-specific potential index between future selected and non-selected players and 2) to evaluate the prognostic validity of a multidimensional model as a tool for talent identification in soccer. The sample was composed by 132 male players (14,5 +/- 1,4 years; regional competitive level) from U13 to U17 age groups of a Brazilian soccer talent development program. Athletes completed a multidimensional test battery and were subjectively rated by their coaches for sporting potential. Players' success was evaluated five years later and was operationalized by achieving under-20 category of the Brazilian Championship or adult professional level (success rate, 15.9%). Confirming univariate prognostic validity, future selected outperformed non-selected players regarding 20-m sprint (p = .009), agility (p = .04), countermovement jump (p = .04), sit-and-reach (p = .001), Yo-Yo IR1 (p = .001), dribbling (p < .001), perceived competence (p = .007), peaking under pressure (p = .01), confidence/motivation (p = .03), coping skills (p = .03), intangibles (p < .001) and player potential (p < .001). A combined index (objective tests, athlete's assessments and coach's eye) named Gold Score Soccer (GSS) showed high prognostic validity (p < .001). A binary logistic regression estimated the probability of success (yes/not) with GSS, ambidextrous and predicted age at peak height velocity as predictors. This multidimensional model named GoldFit Soccer showed high prognostic validity (sensitivity = 85.7%; specificity = 83.8%; accuracy = 84.1%; area under the ROC curve = .93 [.87-.98]). Thus, GoldFit Soccer is a valid multidimensional scientific model for talent identification in soccer.		[Werneck, Francisco Zacaron; Coelho, Emerson Filipino; Silva, Rodrigo Cesar Pedrosa] Fed Univ Ouro Preto EEF UFOP, Sch Phys Educ, Rua Dois 110,Campus Univ, BR-35400000 Ouro Preto, Minas Gerais, Brazil; [Matta, Marcelo de Oliveira] Univ Fed Juiz De Fora, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Figueiredo, Antonio Jose Barata] Univ Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; [Werneck, Francisco Zacaron] Fed Univ Ouro Preto EEF UFOP, Sch Phys Educ, Rua Dois 110,Campus Univ, BR-35400000 Ouro Preto, Minas Gerais, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001250024800001	84	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Seungbak; Kang, Minsoo								A Data-Driven Approach to Predicting Recreational Activity Participation Using Machine Learning								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			873	885		10.1080/02701367.2024.2343815			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: With the popularity of recreational activities, the study aimed to develop prediction models for recreational activity participation and explore the key factors affecting participation in recreational activities. Methods: A total of 12,712 participants, excluding individuals under 20, were selected from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) from 2011 to 2018. The mean age of the sample was 46.86 years (+/- 16.97), with a gender distribution of 6,721 males and 5,991 females. The variables included demographic, physical-related variables, and lifestyle variables. This study developed 42 prediction models using six machine learning methods, including logistic regression, Support Vector Machine (SVM), decision tree, random forest, eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), and Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LightGBM). The relative importance of each variable was evaluated by permutation feature importance. Results: The results illustrated that the LightGBM was the most effective algorithm for predicting recreational activity participation (accuracy: .838, precision: .783, recall: .967, F1-score: .865, AUC: .826). In particular, prediction performance increased when the demographic and lifestyle datasets were used together. Next, as the result of the permutation feature importance based on the top models, education level and moderate-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) were found to be essential variables. Conclusion: These findings demonstrated the potential of a data-driven approach utilizing machine learning in a recreational discipline. Furthermore, this study interpreted the prediction model through feature importance analysis to overcome the limitation of machine learning interpretability.		[Lee, Seungbak; Kang, Minsoo] Univ Mississippi, Oxford, MS USA; [Lee, Seungbak] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, 316 Garland Hall, Oxford, MS 38677 USA; [Lee, Seungbak] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, 316 Garland Hall, Oxford, MS 38677 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001247736900001	105	Article; Article		
J	Stellpflug, Samuel J.; Dalrymple, Kirsten A.; Stone, Daniel; Southgate, Samuel; Bachman, David S.; Lefevere, Robert C.; Hasan, Jaan; Zwank, Michael D.								Impact of repeated sportive chokes on carotid intima media thickness and brain injury biomarkers in grappling athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			18	26		10.1080/00913847.2024.2366154			JAN 2 2025	2025	Purpose: Vascular neck compression techniques, referred to as 'chokes' in combat sports, reduce cerebral perfusion, causing loss of consciousness or voluntary submission by the choked athlete. Despite these chokes happening millions of times yearly around the world, there is scant research on their long-term effects. This pilot study evaluated whether repeated choking in submission grappling impacts the carotid intima media thickness (CIMT) and brain injury biomarkers (NFL, hGFAP, t-Tau, and UCH-L1). Methods: Participants (n = 39, 29 male; ages 27-60 years) were assigned to one of two study arms: Grapplers (n = 20, 15 male) and 19 age/sex/body size matched controls. Grapplers had been exposed to >500 choke events while training for >5 years in a choke-inclusive sport. Exclusion criteria were recent TBI or deficits from a past TBI or stroke. Bilateral ultrasound measurement of the CIMT was performed, and blood was collected for quantitative analysis of four brain injury markers. Subgroup analyses were performed within the Grappler group to account for blunt head trauma as a possible confounder. Results: There was no overall difference in CIMT measurements between Grapplers (mean 0.55 mm, SD 0.07) and Controls (mean 0.57 mm, SD 0.10) p = 0.498 [95% CI -0.04-0.08], nor were there CIMT differences between Grappler subgroups of blunt Trauma and No-Trauma. There were no significant differences in any biomarkers comparing Grapplers and Controls or comparing Grappler subgroups of Trauma and No-Trauma. Conclusion: This study found no significant difference in CIMT and serum brain injury biomarkers between controls and grapplers with extensive transient choke experience, nor between grapplers with extensive past blunt head trauma and those without.		[Stellpflug, Samuel J.; Stone, Daniel; Southgate, Samuel; Lefevere, Robert C.; Zwank, Michael D.] Reg Hosp, Dept Emergency Med, 640 Jackson St, St Paul, MN 55101 USA; [Dalrymple, Kirsten A.; Bachman, David S.] HealthPartners, Crit Care Res Ctr, St Paul, MN USA; [Hasan, Jaan] Wyckoff Hts Med Ctr, Dept Emergency Med, Brooklyn, NY USA; [Stellpflug, Samuel J.] Reg Hosp, Dept Emergency Med, 640 Jackson St, St Paul, MN 55101 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001281735700001	51	Article; Article		
J	Li, Jianglong; Sun, Shiqiang; Ho, Mun Sing								Immediate Impacts of Air Pollution on the Performance of Football Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	6			753	776		10.1177/15270025241260031			AUG 2024	2024	Understanding the immediate impacts of air pollution is crucial, especially as non-health outcomes like player productivity are covert. This paper focuses on investigating the causal relationship between air pollution and player productivity, which is theoretically established by the health consequences of air pollution and the Grossman health production function. The dataset used comprises over 20,000 observations from 1,440 matches in the Chinese Football Association Super League from 2014 to 2019. The IV estimation results show that a 1% increase in air pollution results in a reduction of 0.101% in the number of passes, which is five times larger than the OLS estimation. Heterogeneity results suggest that possessing an advantage (physical fitness, technical skills, or playing at home) contributes to mitigating the adverse effects of air pollution. This study underscores the critical role of clean air in enabling football players to achieve high productivity in the game.		[Li, Jianglong; Sun, Shiqiang] Xi An Jiao Tong Univ, Sch Econ & Finance, 74 West Yanta Rd, Xian, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Ho, Mun Sing] Harvard Univ, China Project Energy Econ & Environm, SEAS, Cambridge, MA USA; [Li, Jianglong] Xi An Jiao Tong Univ, Sch Econ & Finance, 74 West Yanta Rd, Xian, Shaanxi, Peoples R China								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001246353600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Tuetuencue, Onur; Mehta, Saumya; Memmert, Daniel								Zones where corner kicks are most effective in the penalty box: Is there a sweet spot?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1706	1722		10.1177/17479541241256223			AUG 2024	2024	This research aims to evaluate the effectiveness of corner kicks, analyze the goal patterns resulting from corner kicks, and develop a model for the implementation of optimal corner kick strategies. The study used a descriptive retrospective design, and the data consisted of 455.898 corner kicks from matches played by 768 teams in 33 different leagues and an international tournament (UEFA). Six different models based on logistic regression were developed and analyzed. The results showed that more goals were scored from certain zones (1c, 2b, and 2c) inside the penalty area than from others (p < 0.001). According to logistic regression, zones 1c and 2c increased the probability of scoring a goal by 1.12 and 1.08 times, respectively, compared to other regions. In addition, it is noticeable that the probability of scoring from the zones varies considerably depending on the type of kick. Further results showed that there were no statistically significant differences between goals scored from in-swing and out-swing corners, but significant differences were found for the other types of corners. Finally, 3.1% of all corners resulted in goals, and 69% of those goals resulted in a draw or the team taking the lead in the match. For these reasons, it is important to develop new corner-kick strategies in order to score goals and win matches.		[Tuetuencue, Onur; Mehta, Saumya; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, Cologne, Germany; [Tuetuencue, Onur] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, Cologne, Germany								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001244455700001	40	Article; Article		
J	Agha, Nola; Berri, David J.; Bhat, Akash; Van Gilder, Jennifer								The Effect of National Origin and Skin Color on Playing Time in the WNBA								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	6			735	752		10.1177/15270025241260030			AUG 2024	2024	This article uses data from the 1997-2022 seasons to investigate the role of bias in the distribution of playing time in the WNBA. We evaluate national origin, a fixed and objective measure, and improve upon past uses of subjective, perception-based measures of race by using a more objective measure of skin tone. More specifically, via a fixed-effect estimation of 2,949 WNBA player-year combinations we find no evidence that the national origin of either players or coaches is related to the provision of playing time. Similarly, skin tone of players or coaches (n = 893), either alone or in combination with national origin, shows no robust significance. Evidence of national origin bias has previously been reported in professional men's basketball leagues in the U.S., Spain, and China. The WNBA may be demographically similar to the National Basketball Association, but it is culturally different and we find no evidence of employer discrimination.		[Agha, Nola] Univ San Francisco, 101 Howard St,Suite 430, San Francisco, CA 94105 USA; [Berri, David J.] Southern Utah Univ, Cedar City, UT USA; [Bhat, Akash] Leen Inc, San Francisco, CA USA; [Van Gilder, Jennifer] Ursinus Coll, Business & Econ Dept, Collegeville, PA USA; [Agha, Nola] Univ San Francisco, 101 Howard St,Suite 430, San Francisco, CA 94105 USA								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001244364300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Dreier, Sebastian; Maier, Jonas; Brunnschneider, Markus; Keiner, Michael								Soccer-The disrupted game: Perturbations as a cause for scoring success								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2460	2466		10.1177/17479541241259842			DEC 2024	2024	This study was designed to analyze goal-scoring in elite soccer, drawing on an extensive dataset encompassing 892 goals and 3496 perturbations recorded in the German 2nd Bundesliga. A qualitative approach was used to analyze perturbations, which are technical-tactical situations that disrupt opponent stability and facilitate goal success. The research differentiated between offensive and defensive perturbations, characteristics of initiating disruptive perturbations, their zones of occurrence, directions of play, significant playing positions, and their contributions toward goals, as well as perturbation chains leading to goal success. The analysis determined that an average of 3.9 perturbations is typically required to forge a goal-scoring opportunity against the opposition. It was revealed that 39% of initiating perturbations were defensive, predominantly characterized by misplaced passes. In contrast, 43% were attributed to offensive group tactical perturbations, such as low passes, long-distance kicks, and crosses. Only 18% stemmed from individual perturbations, with runs without the ball and dribbling to bypass the opponent being the primary occurrences. An analysis focusing solely on the immediate actions can lead to misinterpretations regarding the genesis of goals. While only 79 goals resulted from a single perturbation, most commonly a shot on goal, 813 goals emerged from scenarios involving two or more perturbations.		[Dreier, Sebastian; Maier, Jonas; Keiner, Michael] DHGS German Univ Hlth & Sport, Dept Exercise & Training Sci, Steinheilstr 4, D-85737 Ismaning, Germany; [Dreier, Sebastian] Acad FC Bayern Munich, FC Bayern Campus, Munich, Germany; [Brunnschneider, Markus] German Univ Appl Sci, Int Football Inst, Ismaning, Germany; [Keiner, Michael] DHGS German Univ Hlth & Sport, Dept Exercise & Training Sci, Steinheilstr 4, D-85737 Ismaning, Germany								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001243493200001	21	Article; Article		
J	Sato, Mikihiro; Tokuyama, Tomo; Motoyama, Shohgo; Warwick, Lance; Deguchi, Junko								Examining switching intention in professional sport: a push-pull-mooring perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	4			895	912		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2023-0245			AUG 21 2024	2024	PurposeDrawing upon a push-pull-mooring model and the literature on behavioral loyalty, this research aims to examine the underlying factors and mechanisms that influence switching intention in the context of professional sport in Japan.Design/methodology/approachUsing a two-wave survey design (pregame and postgame surveys), we collected data from 367 fans of a professional soccer team in Japan. Our data included three push factors (quality, satisfaction, and perceived value of the current favorite team), a pull factor (alternative team attractiveness), a mooring factor (team identification), and behavioral loyalty and switching intention to the alternative team. We used structural equation modeling to test our hypotheses.FindingsA mediation analysis revealed that perceived value of an individual's current favorite team was negatively associated with behavioral loyalty to an alternative team, whereas attractiveness of the alternative team was positively associated with behavioral loyalty, which, in turn, resulted in fans' switching intention. Latent moderated structural equation modeling further revealed the negative moderating effect of team identification with the current team on the relationship between behavioral loyalty and switching intention.Originality/valueThe findings provide new evidence about the role of behavioral loyalty in understanding sport consumers' switching intention and highlight the importance of team identification that can foster a sustainable and long-term relationship between fans and their favorite sport teams.		[Sato, Mikihiro; Motoyama, Shohgo; Warwick, Lance] Univ Illinois, Champaign, IL 61820 USA; [Tokuyama, Tomo] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Kumatori, Japan; [Deguchi, Junko] Tokaigakuen Univ, Miyoshi, Japan; [Sato, Mikihiro] Univ Illinois, Champaign, IL 61820 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001241755700001	52	Article; Article		
J	Center, John A.; Willy, Richard W.; Elias, Audrey R. C.; Mischke, John J.								Validity of a commercially available load cell dynamometer in measuring isometric knee extension torque in patients with knee disorders								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				167	173		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.04.008			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: Assess the validity of hand-held dynamometry (HHD) and the Tindeq Progressor (TP) in assessing peak isometric knee extension torque and limb symmetry index (LSI) versus isokinetic dynamometer (IKD). Design: Prospective cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 31 individuals with unilateral knee disorders (21 female; 28.3 +/- 11 years). Main outcome measures: Peak isometric knee extension torque; Knee extension LSI. Results: Strong to almost perfect (p < 0.001) correlations (Cohen's Kappa k) with IKD were found for both devices for peak torque of the uninvolved limb (HHD [k = 0.84], TP [k = 0.91]) and involved limb (HHD [k = 0.93], TP [k = 0.98]). For LSI, moderate to strong (p < 0.001) correlations with IKD were found for HHD (k = 0.79) and TP (k = 0.89). Mean bias errors were equivalent for determining LSI (HHD = 0.02%; TP = 0.03%). Both HHD and TP were highly sensitive (96.2-100.0%) and specific (100.0%) at the 70% LSI threshold. TP showed higher sensitivity and specificity at the 90% LSI threshold. Conclusion: HHD and TP are valid in measuring isometric knee extension torque with the reference standard IKD. TP showed superior validity in identifying LSI. TP also shows greater specificity in identifying the 90% LSI threshold.		[Center, John A.; Willy, Richard W.; Elias, Audrey R. C.; Mischke, John J.] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, 32 Campus Dr,Skaggs Bldg, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Center, John A.] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, 32 Campus Dr,Skaggs Bldg, Missoula, MT 59812 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001252422100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Jimenez-Garcia, John A.; Gomez-Rodas, Alejandro; DeMont, Richard								Feasibility and Effects of a Neuromuscular Warm-Up Based on the Physical Literacy Model for 8-12-Year-Old-Children								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			863	872		10.1080/02701367.2024.2343361			OCT 1 2024	2024	Background: Physical literacy and injury prevention strategies use similar movement-related constructs and can be connected to develop comprehensive interventions. We aimed to test the feasibility and effects of a neuromuscular warm-up based on physical literacy and injury prevention strategies for 8-12-year-old children. Methods: We conducted a cluster non-randomized controlled trial. We defined a priori feasibility criteria and studied the effects of the intervention on physical literacy constructs, movement competence, and neuromuscular performance. We used generalized linear mixed models controlling for covariates and clustering with a significance level of 0.001. Results: We recruited 18 groups (n = 363) and randomly allocated nine to intervention (n = 179; female = 63.7%, age = 9.8 +/- 1 years) and nine to control (n = 184, female = 53.3%, age = 9.9 +/- 0.9 years). We met four of seven feasibility criteria (i.e. recruitment, adherence, enjoyment, perceived exertion). The three feasibility criteria that were not met (i.e. compliance, fidelity, follow-up) were slightly below the predefined threshold (90%). Model-adjusted mean differences for physical literacy constructs, movement competence, vertical jump height, horizontal jump distance, 20-m sprint time, and dynamic balance favored the intervention (p < .001). Conclusion: The feasibility evidence indicates that the intervention should be slightly modified before implementing it in a larger study. The observed mean differences are promising and can be used in planning future interventions.		[Jimenez-Garcia, John A.; DeMont, Richard] Concordia Univ, Dept Hlth Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, 7141 Sherbrooke St West, Montreal, PQ H4B 1R6, Canada; [Gomez-Rodas, Alejandro] Univ Tecnol Pereira, Fdn Univ del Area Andina, Pereira, Colombia; [Jimenez-Garcia, John A.] Concordia Univ, Dept Hlth Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, 7141 Sherbrooke St West, Montreal, PQ H4B 1R6, Canada								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001262745000001	50	Article; Article		
J	Casamichana, David; Agirrezabalaga, Oier; Agirre, Gorka; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Barba, Eider; Martin-Garcia, Andres; Castellano, Julen								Weekly accumulative external load based on participation in football matches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2035	2044		10.1177/17479541241257593			OCT 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to compare the weekly accumulative external load according to their participation in the previous match and the following match in three teams of different categories belonging to a football club. Sixty football players participated, belonging to the under-23 (U23, n: 20), U21 (n: 22) and U19 (n: 18) teams. Players were monitored by global positioning system devices during all training sessions and official matches. For the accumulative weekly load (from Monday to Sunday), the following external load variables were used: total distance covered (TD, m), distance covered at different speed thresholds (>14.0, >18.0, >21.0 and >24.0 km<middle dot>h(-1)), the number of moderate-high intensity accelerations (ACC: >2 m<middle dot>s(-2), n) and decelerations (DEC: <-2 m<middle dot>s(-2), n), the player load (PL, arbitrary units, au) and the acceleration load (Aload, au). Players were grouped according to their participation in the previous and next matches: starter and starter (SS, when the player was a starter in both the previous and the following matches), starter and non-starter (SN), non-starter and starter (NS), and non-starter and non-starter (NN). This study revealed that NS and SS groups had a higher absolute and relative accumulative weekly load for the global indicators (Aload, PL and TD) in the three teams than NN and SN (range of ES: 0.1-3.4). This information would allow coaches to refine the required stimulation regarding players' role in the team based on the player's participation in the previous and next match.		[Casamichana, David; Agirrezabalaga, Oier; Agirre, Gorka; Barba, Eider] Real Soc Futbol SAD, Real Soc Inst, Donostia San Sebastian, Spain; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Barba, Eider; Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Spain; [Martin-Garcia, Andres] FC Barcelona Sports Performance Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Casamichana, David] Real Soc Futbol SAD, Real Soc Intitute, Zubieta Real Soc, Paseo Arrapide 52, San Sebastian 20170, Guipuzcoa, Spain; [Casamichana, David] Real Soc Futbol SAD, Real Soc Intitute, Zubieta Real Soc, Paseo Arrapide 52, San Sebastian 20170, Guipuzcoa, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001243132200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Seungjoo; Kwon, Sungho; Yang, Kyoungjin								The effects of shared leadership perceived by soccer players on teamwork execution and flow state: Applying the IMO framework								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2376	2387		10.1177/17479541241256851			DEC 2024	2024	The purpose of this study is to investigate how shared leadership, as perceived by players within a soccer team, influences teamwork execution and the state of flow. To achieve the objectives of this study, a purposive sampling method was employed, and soccer players registered with the Korea Football Association were selected as the research participants. Subsequently, data were collected using self-report surveys on shared leadership, teamwork execution, and flow state. Data from 415 participants were utilized for analysis, and data analysis was conducted using the SPSS 26.0 and AMOS 21.0 programs. Shared leadership was found to have a positive association with teamwork execution and the state of flow. Furthermore, the mediating effect of teamwork execution in the relationship between shared leadership and the state of flow was found to be significant. The results of this study emphasize the influence of leadership that is shared among team members rather than the effectiveness of individual leadership.		[Lee, Seungjoo; Kwon, Sungho; Yang, Kyoungjin] Seoul Natl Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Rm 510,Bldg 71-1,1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul 08826, South Korea; [Kwon, Sungho] Seoul Natl Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Rm 510,Bldg 71-1,1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul 08826, South Korea								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001241960100001	73	Article; Article		
J	Rietz, Julia; Hallmann, Kirstin								Consumer segmentation in esports: clustering via consumption motivation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	4			913	928		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2024-0020			AUG 21 2024	2024	PurposeThe study aims to provide a reference for market segmentation in a relatively new market. Esports consumer profiles are developed based on consumption motives, structural factors, game genres, interests, demographics and behavioral intentions. It delivers managerial advice for a growing esports market.Design/methodology/approachA quantitative approach using an online survey was implemented to identify homogenous groups. The study employed the Motivation Scale for Sports Consumption (MSSC) to investigate the consumption motives of esports consumers. A two-step market segmentation was conducted based on the motives, applying hierarchical clustering. Moreover, descriptor variables were used to create distinct esports consumer profiles.FindingsThis research divides the esports market into four clusters based on MSSC, which is new and relevant in a constantly changing environment. The clusters are named Low Intention Novices, Leisure Warriors, Socializing Learners and Dedicated Enthusiasts.Originality/valueThis adds to the limited literature on esports market segmentation and highlights the theoretical and practical implications of the findings.		[Rietz, Julia; Hallmann, Kirstin] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Rietz, Julia] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001237873300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Ganzevles, Sander; Beek, Peter Jan; Daanen, Hein; Truijens, Martin								Practical application of a heuristic model for swim coaches to optimize training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2297	2309		10.1177/17479541241259253			DEC 2024	2024	Swim coaches routinely monitor the performance and performance determining variables of their athletes to optimize training programs in an individual-specific manner with the ultimate aim to swim faster and win races. To interpret the collected data, they require a suitable, and practically useful, conceptual framework, which can be found in the power balance of swimming. For coaches a heuristic model for training and performance optimization based on the power balance has been proposed. We build on this model and illustrate how it can be employed in the training practice using data of an exemplary sub-elite swimmer (700 FINA points), which was collected continuously during two training sessions. Variables that are used in daily swim training practice, such as heart rate (HR), stroke count (SC), stroke rate (SR), and lap time (LT), were measured. By combining external load variables (e.g. LT) and internal load variables (e.g. HR) with technical variables (e.g. SR), the degree to which the swimmer complies with the training program can be determined. The measured values of these variables are presented using a traffic light feedback system indicating the degree of compliance. The traffic light system enables coaches to adjust the program if deemed necessary. It is thus shown how the model and commonly measured variables can assist swim coaches in the design and evaluation of training sessions in their pursuit of personal performance improvement leading to greater athletic success.		[Ganzevles, Sander; Beek, Peter Jan; Daanen, Hein; Truijens, Martin] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Ganzevles, Sander] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Vander Boechorststr 7, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Ganzevles, Sander] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Vander Boechorststr 7, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001239884500001	92	Article; Article		
J	Bird, Stephen P.; Goriss, Brent; DeLosAngeles, Ernest; Spencer, Nathan								Preparing Basketball Players for Competition During COVID-19 Lockdown: An International Strength and Conditioning Perspective								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	3			360	368		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000807			JUN 2024	2024	The global outbreak of Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) resulted in governing bodies suspending professional sports leagues, including the National Basketball Association (NBA) and notably the International Olympic Committee (2020 Tokyo Olympic Games). As competitions resumed, performance staff shifted their focus to preparing athletes for a safe return to competition. This article provides novel and unique international perspectives on preparing basketball players for competition during COVID-19 lockdown outlining lessons learned from the NBA, FIBA Asia Cup, and Olympic Games. Reflections are provided unpacking central themes related to (a) the impact of COVID-19 on physiological and psychological domains; (b) strength and conditioning methods and nutritional strategies used in the (re)training process; and (c) situation-specific interventions and educational strategies related to psychological well-being. Collectively, performance staff responsible for the preparation of basketball players during COVID-19 must consider additional health and performance support to ensure physical and psychological readiness to complete without negatively impacting physical development.		[Bird, Stephen P.; DeLosAngeles, Ernest] Univ Southern Queensland, Sch Hlth & Med Sci, Ipswich, Qld, Australia; [Bird, Stephen P.] Basketball New Zealand, Wellington, New Zealand; [Goriss, Brent] Basketball Australia, Wantirna South, NSW, Australia; [DeLosAngeles, Ernest] NBA G League Ignite, Henderson, NV USA; [Spencer, Nathan] NSW Inst Sport, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Bird, Stephen P.] Univ Southern Queensland, Sch Hlth & Med Sci, Ipswich, Qld, Australia; [Bird, Stephen P.] Basketball New Zealand, Wellington, New Zealand								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241136300007	44	Article; Article		
J	Smith, J. Chadwick								Using Python to Analyze Multiple Countermovement Vertical Jumps over Time								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	3			369	377		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000800			JUN 2024	2024	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. Countermovement vertical jumps (CMVJs) can be used for athletic monitoring. When performed on a force plate, biomechanical variables can be obtained to identify factors relating to performance. Commercially available software can be purchased to analyze metrics relating to CMVJs. Users are typically limited to metrics provided by these "black box" setups. However, some commercial products provide export functions for users to manipulate raw data. These programs often require additional components to complete the analysis, which could be cost prohibitive. The purpose of this article is to compare using Excel, MATLAB, R, and Python to analyze multiple CMVJ trials, so practitioners have more control over how metrics are determined rather than relying on the "black box" setup with or without the expense of third-party proprietary software. This guide will introduce Python by presenting a template for analyzing force plate jump data. Strategies for reading files, filtering data, calculating biomechanical variables, graphically representing data, and writing results to a master data file will be discussed. Although the provided script can be used to analyze CMVJ data by itself, it can be modified to include other metrics the practitioner wishes to include in their setting (see Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A383).		[Smith, J. Chadwick] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Conway, SC 29528 USA; [Smith, J. Chadwick] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Conway, SC 29528 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241136300010	23	Article; Article		
J	Bonder, Ian J.; Waller, Michael; Shim, Andrew L.; Tangeman, Marc A.								Time-Saving Versus Time-Efficient Training Terminology, Methods, and Prescription								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	3			308	319		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000805			JUN 2024	2024	A common obstacle to achieving recommended physical activity and desired training goals is time. This is true for recreationally trained adults and athletes, particularly at the collegiate level, where greater restrictions on practice time and training are in place. One possible solution is to implement time-saving and time-efficient training routines and methods that may limit the amount of time needed to attain desired physiological adaptations-by decreasing the time needed to train and/or by increasing the frequency with which brief workouts are completed throughout the week (e.g., "microdosing"). To provide the most optimal training stimulus, the correct method must be used. Unfortunately, numerous terms describe routines and methods discussed in the current body of available literature, many of which may seem similar and lead to confusion. The purpose of this article is to outline the similarities and differences of the numerous time-saving and time-efficient training routines and methods. Ultimately, this article synthesizes the current research into practical recommendations as programming options for strength and conditioning coaches and personal trainers. The information provided may also serve as a foundation for future research opportunities in time-saving and time-efficient training.		[Bonder, Ian J.; Shim, Andrew L.] Coll St Mary, Dept Kinesiol & Exercise Sci, Omaha, NE 68106 USA; [Bonder, Ian J.] Concordia Univ, Dept Kinesiol, St Paul, MN 55104 USA; [Bonder, Ian J.] Warren Acad, Omaha, NE 68138 USA; [Waller, Michael] Arkansas Tech Univ, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Russellville, AR 72801 USA; [Tangeman, Marc A.] Coll St Mary, Dept Athlet, Omaha, NE USA; [Bonder, Ian J.] Coll St Mary, Dept Kinesiol & Exercise Sci, Omaha, NE 68106 USA; [Bonder, Ian J.] Concordia Univ, Dept Kinesiol, St Paul, MN 55104 USA; [Bonder, Ian J.] Warren Acad, Omaha, NE 68138 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241136300008	57	Article; Article		
J	Beaumont, Patrick L.; van den Hoek, Daniel; Holland, Justin; Garrett, Joel								A Scoping Review of the Physiological Profiles of Motorsport Drivers: Implications for Athlete Training								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	3			257	278		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000808			JUN 2024	2024	Automotive racing is one of the most internationally recognized sports. Drivers within their respective disciplines are exposed to a variety of forces throughout the race, each of which is theorized to inflict a physiological adaptation within the driver. Therefore, the aim of this scoping review was to collate the evidence and provide a summary of the physiological profiles of these drivers and provide practitioners with recommendations to optimize these adaptations. Of the 1,304 articles screened, 24 met the inclusion criteria. Of the included studies, 13 reported on the anthropometric and physiological measures of 4-wheeled racing athletes from both open and closed-wheel disciplines. The remaining 11 studies reported on the physiological profiles of 2-wheeled racing athletes from both on-road and off-road riding disciplines. Open-wheel racers have greater cardiopulmonary fitness than close-wheel racers, as well as greater strength throughout movements of neck lateral flexion and isometric knee extension. Close-wheel racers were shown to be heavier with greater fat mass than the open-wheel racers but exhibited greater isometric shoulder flexion and plantarflexion strength. Female 2-wheeled racers were also shown to have a weaker handgrip strength than their male counterparts. Whereas male on-road riders demonstrated greater levels of handgrip strength than their off-road counterparts.		[Beaumont, Patrick L.; van den Hoek, Daniel] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth, Petrie, Qld, Australia; [Holland, Justin] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Garrett, Joel] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Southport, Qld, Australia; [van den Hoek, Daniel] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth, Petrie, Qld, Australia								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241136300005	62	Article; Article		
J	Matkin-Hussey, Penelope A.; Baker, Dane; Ogilvie, Megan; Beable, Sarah; Black, Katherine E.								RED-S: A Review of the Screening, Diagnosis, Treatment, and Recovery								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	3						10.1519/SSC.0000000000000816			JUN 2024	2024	Relative energy deficiency in sport (RED-S) is a complex syndrome of endocrine, metabolic, and physiological maladaptation. Adverse effects on physiological and psychological health and the performance of the athlete may occur due to a prolonged exposure to low-energy availability (LEA). LEA occurs when there is an energy intake (EI) deficiency relative to exercise energy expenditure (EEE) and normal physiological functioning. Early detection of the state of LEA and RED-S is crucial to prevent long-term negative health consequences. Given that LEA is the underlying cause of RED-S, increasing the athlete's energy availability (EA) to an optimal level is the recommended treatment. This paper reviews the current evidence and recommendations for the screening and diagnostic tools of LEA and RED-S, the recommended treatment strategies including reducing EEE, increasing EI, carbohydrate availability, within-day EA, psychological support, and the multidisciplinary team's role, and finally, it reviews the literature on its recovery process. It aims to provide a comprehensive summary of the research to date, with practical recommendations for the identification, management, and treatment of RED-S.		[Matkin-Hussey, Penelope A.; Baker, Dane; Black, Katherine E.] Univ Otago, Dept Human Nutr, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Baker, Dane; Beable, Sarah] Axis Sports Med, Auckland, New Zealand; [Ogilvie, Megan] Fertil Associates Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand; [Black, Katherine E.] Univ Otago, Dept Human Nutr, Dunedin, New Zealand								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241136300003	88	Article; Article		
J	Brazier, Jon; Turner, Anthony; Antrobus, Mark								Genetics of Performance and Injury: Considerations for the Strength and Conditioning Coach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	3			287	294		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000838			JUN 2024	2024	Genetic profiling and direct-to-consumer genetic testing have seen exponential growth in the past decade, driven by advancements in knowledge and technology making genetic information far more accessible to the population. Specifically in the sports industry, there are claims that the results from these tests can inform training and dietary practices and even identify children's athletic talents. However, in some cases, how this information is being used or promoted can be far removed from the evidence base. Because of this, anyone involved in the sports industry, such as strength and conditioning coaches, sports scientists, coaches, and parents, need to have a sound grasp of what can and cannot be taken from genetic tests. Thus, the purpose of this article is to provide a brief overview of genetics and heredity, highlight some of the key genetic findings to date regarding athletic performance and injury, and then finally provide context as to how this information can be used.		[Brazier, Jon] Univ Hertfordshire, Inst Sport, Dept Psychol Geog & Sport, Hatfield, Herts, England; [Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Antrobus, Mark] Univ Northampton, Ctr Phys Act & Life Sci, Northampton, England; [Brazier, Jon] Univ Hertfordshire, Inst Sport, Dept Psychol Geog & Sport, Hatfield, Herts, England								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241136300002	69	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Jun; Wei, Aodong; Xie, Chao								Effects of Sprint Interval Training Surface on Physical Fitness Attributes of Collegiate Female Soccer Players: Identifying Individual Responses to Training on Grass, Sand, and Land Surfaces								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			465	474		10.52082/jssm.2024.465			JUN 2024	2024	This study aimed to identify the optimal surface for sprint interval training to maximize transfer effects on physical performance measures on the grass pitch. Using a randomized controlled trial design, 40 collegiate female soccer players were equally assigned to three experimental groups performing short sprint interval training (SSIT: 4 sets of 10 repetitions with 5 seconds all -out running, with a 50-second recovery period between each effort and a 3-minute rest interval between sets) on SAND, GRASS, LAND, and a control group. Before and after a 7-week training period, participants underwent a series of field-based tests to evaluate countermovement jump (CMJ), 20-m linear sprint, Illinois change of direction (CoD) speed, Yo-Yo IR1, 2.4 km time trial, and maximal kicking distance (MKD) performance. A two-way analysis of variance with repeated measures was conducted on the data, along with Bonferroni post hoc testing. After the intervention, the control group did not show any changes, while the SAND, GRASS and LAND training groups demonstrated improvements (p = 0.001) in their performance as follows: CMJ (effect size [ES] = 1.21, 0.97, 0.64), 20-m linear sprint (ES = -0.81, -0.55, -0.41), Illinois CoD (ES = -0.72, -0.79, -0.41), Yo-Yo IR1 (ES = 1.86, 1.19, 1.12), 2.4 km time trail (ES = -0.82, -0.62,0.49), and MKD (ES = 0.60, 0.90, 0.72), respectively. Comparative analysis of SAND, GRASS, and LAND revealed that performing SSIT on SAND results in a significantly greater gain in CMJ than LAND (p = 0.041). Analyzing individual responses to training interventions indicated that the training surface had a favorable influence on CMJ (SAND vs. LAND, p = 0.009), but on other variables no statistically significant (p > 0.05) differences were observed. Considering these findings, it is advised that strength and conditioning coaches use the SAND surface as the initial choice for SSIT sessions regarding greater gains (i.e., ES) in performance. This recommendation aims to facilitate more favorable transfer in physical fitness adaptation on a soccer grass pitch. In case of unavailability of SAND surface, GRASS surface would be a suitable alternative to enhance the physical fitness of collegiate female soccer players.		[Zhang, Jun; Wei, Aodong] Liaoning Normal Univ, 850 Huanghe Rd, Dalian 116029, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Xie, Chao] Hubei Univ Arts & Sci, 296 Longzhong Rd, Xiangyang 441053, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Xie, Chao] Hubei Univ Arts & Sci, 296 Longzhong Rd, Xiangyang 441053, Hubei, Peoples R China								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241801500001	52	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Liang; Kang, Yuhua; Wei, Lixin; Li, Mingbang; Wang, Tao								Can The Pitch Dimension Influence the Physical Fitness Adaptations Induced by Small-Sided Training Programs Added to Regular In-Field Training? A Randomized Controlled Study in Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			487	494		10.52082/jssm.2024.487			JUN 2024	2024	Small-sided games (SSGs) are frequently utilized in training settings to elicit specific stimuli that can promote physical fitness adaptations over time. However, various task constraints, such as pitch dimensions, can significantly influence both the acute external and internal load responses. Thus, understanding the impact of different pitch dimensions on physical fitness adaptations is crucial. This study sought to compare the physical adaptations induced by an SSG-based program utilizing more elongated pitches (SSGlw2; length-to-width ratio: 2.0) versus less elongated pitches (SSGwl1; length-to-width ratio: 1.0) on the Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test level 1 (YYIRT), and 30 -meter sprint. This study employed a randomized controlled design. Forty-eight male soccer players (16.4 +/- 0.6 years) participated. These players were randomly allocated to two experimental groups (N = 16, SSGlw1; N = 16, SSGlw2) and underwent two weekly additional training sessions over an 8-week period, while a group of 16 players continued with their regular in -field sessions as a control group. Evaluations were conducted before and after the intervention period. Significant interactions time x group were observed in regards YYIRT (F = 15.857; p < 0.001; & Nacute;(2)(p) = 0.413) and 30-m sprint test (p < 0.001). Between-group differences on YYIRT were found in post -intervention (p < 0.001), on which SSGlw2 (p < 0.001) and SSGlw1 (p < 0.001) were significantly greater in comparison to control group. Additionally, between-group differences on 30-m sprint were found in post -intervention (p < 0.001), on which SSGlw2 was significantly better than SSGlw1 (p < 0.001) and control group (p < 0.001). Coaches are advised to prioritize the use of more elongated pitch sizes to promote adaptations in sprint performance, while still acknowledging that aerobic capacity improvements remain significant compared to other pitch shapes.		[Wang, Liang; Kang, Yuhua; Wei, Lixin; Li, Mingbang; Wang, Tao] Geely Univ China, Chengdu 641423, Peoples R China; [Wang, Liang; Kang, Yuhua; Wei, Lixin; Li, Mingbang; Wang, Tao] Chengdu Dongchenggen Primary Sch, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Wang, Liang] Geely Univ China, Chengdu 641423, Peoples R China								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241639700020	32	Article; Article		
J	Zahiri, Ali; Goudini, Reza; Alizadeh, Shahab; Daneshjoo, Abdolhamid; Mahmoud, Mohamed M., I; Konrad, Andreas; Granacher, Urs; Behm, David G.								The Duration of Non-Local Muscle Fatigue Effects								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			425	435		10.52082/jssm.2024.425			JUN 2024	2024	Non-local muscle fatigue (NLMF) refers to a transient decline in the functioning of a non-exercised muscle following the fatigue of a different muscle group. Most studies examining NLMF conducted post-tests immediately after the fatiguing protocols, leaving the duration of these effects uncertain. The aim of this study was to investigate the duration of NLMF (1-, 3-, and 5minutes). In this randomized crossover study, 17 recreationally trained participants (four females) were tested for the acute effects of unilateral knee extensor (KE) muscle fatigue on the contralateral homologous muscle strength, and activation. Each of the four sessions included testing at either 1-, 3-, or 5-minutes post-test, as well as a control condition for non-dominant KE peak force, instantaneous strength (force produced within the first 100ms), and vastus lateralis and biceps femoris electromyography (EMG). The dominant KE fatigue intervention protocol involved two sets of 100-seconds maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MVIC) separated by 1-minute of rest. Nondominant KE MVIC forces showed moderate and small magnitude reductions at 1-min (p < 0.0001, d = 0.72) and 3-min (p = 0.005, d = 0.30) post-test respectively. The KE MVIC instantaneous strength revealed large magnitude, significant reductions between 1-min (p = 0.021, d = 1.33), and 3-min (p = 0.041, d = 1.13) compared with the control. In addition, EMG data revealed large magnitude increases with the 1-minute versus control condition (p = 0.03, d = 1.10). In summary, impairments of the non-exercised leg were apparent up to 3-minutes postexercise with no significant deficits at 5-minutes. Recovery duration plays a crucial role in the manifestation of NLMF.		[Zahiri, Ali; Goudini, Reza; Alizadeh, Shahab; Mahmoud, Mohamed M., I; Konrad, Andreas; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Alizadeh, Shahab] Univ Calgary, Dept Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Daneshjoo, Abdolhamid] Shahid Bahonar Univ Kerman, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport Injuries & Correct Exercises, Kerman, Iran; [Konrad, Andreas] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Granacher, Urs] Univ Freiburg, Dept Sport & Sport Sci Exercise & Human Movement, Freiburg, Germany; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001241639700014	45	Article; Article		
J	Wen, Xiaoyuan; Song, Faming; Yang, Liuxi; Xu, Qi								Small-Sided Soccer Games Promote Greater Adaptations on Vertical Jump and Change-of-Direction Deficit and Similar Adaptations in Aerobic Capacity than High-Intensity Interval Training in Females								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			445	454		10.52082/jssm.2024.445			JUN 2024	2024	The objective of this study was to compare the effectiveness of both small-sided games (SSG) and short interval running-based high-intensity interval training (HIIT) programs over an 8-week period in fostering adaptations in aerobic capacity, change-of-direction abilities, and jumping performances of youth female soccer players. The study involved 48 female youth participants under the age of 19, competing at the regional level, who took part in a randomized controlled trial. Participants were assigned to either the SSG group, the HIIT group, or a control group, which involved regular in-field sessions. Assessments were conducted at baseline and after the 8-week training intervention, measuring aerobic capacity using the 30-15 intermittent fitness test (VIFT), change of direction (COD) using the 5-0-5 test, and jumping performance using the countermovement jump test (CMJ). Time 5 group analysis revealed significant interactions in CMJ (p = 0.005; eta(2)(p)= 0.213) and VIFT (p < 0.001; eta(2)(p) = 0.433), although no significant interaction were found in COD deficit (p = 0.246; eta(2)(p) = 0.060). Within-group analysis revealed that SSG significantly improved CMJ (p < 0.001), COD deficit (p < 0.001), and VIFT (p < 0.001). HIIT group also significantly improved CMJ (p = 0.029), COD deficit (p = 0.001), and VIFT (p < 0.001). As conclusion, the study revealed that SSG promoted significantly improvements in VIFT, CMJ and COD deficit, being significantly better than control group, while HIIT was only significantly better than control in VIFT. SSG revealed to be effective approach for favoring key physical attributes of female soccer players, being an interesting and recommended training approach to increase the ecology of the training practice, while favoring physical positive adaptations.		[Wen, Xiaoyuan] ChengDu Sports Univ, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Song, Faming] Civil Aviat Flight Univ China, Deyang, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Yang, Liuxi] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Xu, Qi] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Xu, Qi] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001234937200001	57	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Sobrino, Jesus; Del Cerro, Jesus S.; Gonzalez-Rave, Jose M.; Veiga, Santiago								Race Dynamics in Triathlon Mixed-Team-Relay Meaningfully Changes with The New Regulation Towards Paris 2024								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			358	365		10.52082/jssm.2024.358			JUN 2024	2024	Mixed-Team-Relay (MTR) triathlon is a novel Olympic discipline whose performance determinants and tactical behaviors have barely been studied. Additionally, a regulatory change has been made to the male and female relay order for the Paris 2024 Olympics. Therefore, this study aimed to determine the performance determinants and race dynamics as a function of competitive level on the new regulated MTR triathlon. Results from 129 national teams, (516 elite triathletes) across five MTR World Triathlon Series and two MTR European Championships in 2022 and 2023, were analyzed. Split times, average speeds, time behind the race leader (gap), partial and finishing positions, pack position as well as the rank positions of every segment, relay leg, and overall race were computed. Decision tree analyses were conducted as a predictive method for the overall results, and correspondence analyses were conducted to examine the relationship between the different relay legs and segments and the finishing positions. The performance of the fourth leg was the most relevant for overall result (30%), as well as the fourth running leg (16%) and the female legs performance (7%). Medallist relay teams were characterized by displaying a differential speed lower than 0.5 and 0.83 km/h, respectively, from the best-ranking athletes in the Legs 1 and 4. Furthermore, staying in the front pack after the second swimming leg showed a great relationship with achieving a medal position. New MTR triathlon rules shift race dynamics, emphasizing individual efforts in cycling and swimming, while maintaining the crucial importance of running.		[Martinez-Sobrino, Jesus; Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain; [Del Cerro, Jesus S.] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Dept Stat, Toledo, Spain; [Gonzalez-Rave, Jose M.] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sports Sci, Sports Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001223104200001	24	Article; Article		
J	Ma, Dong; Silva, Rui Miguel; Xu, Qi; Wang, Ke; Zhao, Zijian								Jumping Interval Training: An Effective Training Method for Enhancing Anaerobic, Aerobic, and Jumping Performances in Aerobic Gymnastics								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			410	417		10.52082/jssm.2024.410			JUN 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to compare the effects of jumping interval training (JIT) and running high-intensity interval training (HIIT) on the aerobic, anaerobic and jumping performances of youth female aerobic gymnasts. A randomized controlled study was conducted over an 8-week period, involving 73 youth female athletes (16.2 +/- 1.3 years old) of aerobic gymnastics. The study comprised two experimental groups (JIT and HIIT) and a control group. Participants in the experimental groups engaged in two additional training sessions per week alongside their regular training regimen, while the control group followed their usual training routine. Before and after the intervention period, gymnasts were assessed for their performance in the countermovement jump test (CMJ), the specific aerobic gymnastics anaerobic test (SAGAT) and the 20-m multistage fitness test. Significant interactions time x group were found in SAGAT ( p < 0.001; eta(2)(p)= 0.495), CMJ (p < 0.001; eta(2)(p)= 0.338) and 20-m multistage fitness test (p < 0.001; eta(2 )(p)= 0.500). The time x group analysis post-intervention revealed significantly lower scores in SAGAT for the control group compared to the JIT (p = 0.003) and HIIT (p = 0.034). Additionally, significantly higher scores were observed for the JIT group in the CMJ test compared to the HIIT (p = 0.020) and control (p = 0.028) groups following the intervention. Finally, the 20 m multistage fitness test post -intervention revealed significantly lower scores for the control group compared to JIT (p < 0.001) and HIIT (p < 0.001). Both JIT and HIIT are recommended training strategies to adopt in aerobic gymnastics for significantly improving the aerobic and anaerobic performances of athletes. However, JIT may be particularly relevant to use as it offers additional benefits in improving vertical jumping performances.		[Ma, Dong; Xu, Qi] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Gdansk, Poland; [Silva, Rui Miguel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial NunAlvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Wang, Ke] Tianjin Univ Sport, Sch Social Sports, Tianjin, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Zijian] Zhengzhou Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Zhengzhou 450001, Henan, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Zijian] Zhengzhou Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Zhengzhou 450001, Henan, Peoples R China								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222628500001	37	Article; Article		
J	Bielitzki, Robert; Behrens, Martin; Behrendt, Tom; Malczewski, Victoria; Mittlmeier, Thomas; Schega, Lutz								Low-load Resistance Exercise with Perceptually Primed Practical Blood Flow Restriction Induces Similar Motor Performance Fatigue, Physiological Changes, and Perceptual Responses Compared to Traditional Blood Flow Restriction in Males and Females								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			326	341		10.52082/jssm.2024.326			JUN 2024	2024	In the recent past, practical blood flow restriction (pBFR) using non -pneumatic, usually elastic cuffs has been established as a cost-effective alternative to traditional blood flow restriction (BFR) using pneumatic cuffs, especially for training in large groups. This study investigated whether low -load resistance exercise with perceptually primed pBFR using an elastic knee wrap is suitable to induce similar motor performance fatigue as well as physiological and perceptual responses compared to traditional BFR using a pneumatic nylon cuff in males and females. In a randomized, counterbalanced cross -over study, 30 healthy subjects performed 4 sets (30 - 15 - 15 - 15 repetitions) of unilateral knee extensions at 20% of their one -repetition -maximum. In the pBFR condition, each individual was perceptually primed to a BFR pressure corresponding to 60% of their arterial occlusion pressure. Before and after exercise, maximal voluntary torque, maximal muscle activity, and cuff pressure -induced discomfort were assessed. Moreover, physiological (i.e., muscle activity, muscle oxygenation) and perceptual responses (i.e., effort and exerciseinduced leg muscle pain) were recorded during exercise. Moderate correlations with no differences between pBFR and BFR were found regarding the decline in maximal voluntary torque and maximal muscle activity. Furthermore, no to very strong correlations between conditions, with no differences, were observed for muscle activity, muscle oxygenation, and perceptual responses during exercise sets. However, cuff pressure -induced discomfort was lower in the pBFR compared to the BFR condition. These results indicate that low -load resistance exercise combined with perceptually primed pBFR is a convenient and less discomfort inducing alternative to traditional BFR. This is especially relevant for BFR training with people who have a low cuff -induced discomfort tolerance.		[Bielitzki, Robert; Behrendt, Tom; Malczewski, Victoria; Schega, Lutz] Otto von Guericke Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Inst 3, Magdeburg, Germany; [Behrens, Martin] Univ Appl Sci Sport & Management Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany; [Mittlmeier, Thomas] Rostock Univ, Dept Traumatol Hand & Reconstruct Surg, Med Ctr, Rostock, Germany; [Bielitzki, Robert] Otto von Guericke Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Inst 3, Magdeburg, Germany								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001214347300001	50	Article; Article		
J	Xu, Haoming; Song, Junyi; Li, Guoxing; Wang, Hengtong								Optimal Prescription for Superior Outcomes: A Comparative Analysis of Inter-Individual Variability in Adaptations to Small-Sided Games and Short Sprint Interval Training in Young Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			305	316		10.52082/jssm.2024.305			JUN 2024	2024	This study compared the inter-individual variability in adaptive responses to six weeks of small-sided games (SSG) and short sprint interval training (sSIT) in young basketball players. Thirty well-trained young athletes (age: 16.4 +/- 0.6 years; stature: 190 +/- 8.4 cm; weight: 84.1 +/- 8.2 kg) voluntarily participated and were randomly assigned to SSG (3 sets of 5 min 3v3 on full length (28 m) and half-width (7.5 m) court, with 2 minutes of passive recovery in-between), sSIT (3 sets of 12 x 5 s sprinting with 20 s recovery between efforts and 2 min of rest between sets), or CON (routine basketball-specific technical and tactical drills) groups, each of ten. Before and after the training period, participants underwent a series of laboratory- and field-based measurements to evaluate their maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max), first and second ventilatory threshold (VT1 and VT2), oxygen pulse, peak and average power output (PPO and APO), linear speed, change of direction (COD), countermovement jump (CMJ), and vertical jump (VJ). Both SSG and sSIT sufficiently stimulated adaptive mechanisms involved in enhancement of the mentioned variables (p < 0.05). However, sSIT resulted in lower residuals in percent changes in VO2max (p = 0.02), O(2)pulse (p = 0.005), VT1 (p = 0.001), PPO (p = 0.03), and linear speed (p = 0.01) across athletes compared to the SSG. Moreover, sSIT resulted in more responders than SSG in VO2max (p = 0.02, phi = 0.500), O(2)pulse (p = 0.003, phi = 0.655), VT1 (p = 0.003, phi = 0.655), VT2 (p = 0.05, phi = 0.436), and linear speed (p = 0.05, phi = 0.420). Our results indicate that sSIT creates a more consistent level of mechanical and physiological stimulus than SSG, potentially leading to more similar adaptations across team members.		[Xu, Haoming; Song, Junyi; Li, Guoxing; Wang, Hengtong] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sch Sports Training, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Xu, Haoming; Song, Junyi] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Grad Sch, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Song, Junyi] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sch Sports Training, Guangzhou 510500, Peoples R China; [Song, Junyi] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Sch Sports Training, Guangzhou 510500, Peoples R China								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:001194429600001	71	Article; Article		
J	He, Jia; Liu, Diao; Wang, Tao; Xu, Qi; Zhao, Xiang								Sex Influences the Extent of Physical Performance Adaptations in Response to Small-Sided Games and Running-Based High-Intensity Interval Training: A Parallel Study Design Involving Men and Women Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	2			265	275		10.52082/jssm.2024.265			JUN 2024	2024	<table><tbody> <tr> <td> The aim of this study was two-fold: (i) to compare physical fitness adaptations following small-sided games (SSG) and running-based high-intensity interval training (HIIT), considering sex interactions; and (ii) to describe intra-individual variations of adaptations in both men and women developmental/trained soccer players over an 8-week randomized parallel study design involving 25 women and 27 men. Pre and post-intervention assessments included countermovement jump (CMJ), 10-meter linear sprint test, change-of-direction (COD) deficit, and final velocity at 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test (VIFT). Significant interactions between time, groups and sex were found in 10-m sprint (F-1,F-48 = 6.042; p = 0.018; eta(2)(p) = 0.112). No significant interactions between time, groups and sex were found in CMJ (F F-1,F-48 = 0.609; p = 0.439; eta(2)(p) = 0.013), COD deficit (F F-1,F-48 = 2.718; p = 0.106; eta(2)(p) = 0.054) and VIFT (F F-1,F-48 = 1.141; p = 0.291; eta(2)(p) = 0.023). Significant interactions were found between time and sex in CMJ (F F-1,F-48 = 29.342; p < 0.001; eta(2)(p)= 0.379), 10-m sprint (F F-1,F-48 = 4.359; p = 0.042; eta(2)(p) = 0.083), COD deficit (F F-1,F-48 = 5.066; p = 0.029; eta(2)(p)= 0.095) and VIFT (F F-1,F-48 = 11.248; p = 0.002; eta(2)(p) = 0.190). In conclusion, this study suggests similar effects of HIIT in both sexes. However, for women, SSG may entail less efficacy and more inter-individual variability compared to men. Therefore, HIIT could potentially be a better solution for women, whereas both training approaches were equally effective in men. </td> </tr> <tr> </tr></tbody> </table>		[He, Jia; Liu, Diao] Sichuan Normal Univ, Chengdu 610066, Peoples R China; [Wang, Tao] Geely Univ China, Chengdu 641423, Peoples R China; [Xu, Qi] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Zhao, Xiang] Anhui Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Wuhu 241002, Peoples R China; [He, Jia] Sichuan Normal Univ, Chengdu 610066, Peoples R China								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001185157400001	50	Article; Article		
J	Hopper, Haleigh M.; Leicht, Amelia S. Bruce; Thompson, Xavier D.; Gwathmey, F. Winston; Miller, Mark D.; Werner, Brian C.; Brockmeier, Stephen F.; Diduch, David R.; Hart, Joseph M.								The effect of factors from different time points on psychological readiness following ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				161	166		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.05.002			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: The purpose of this study was to examine factors correlated with psychological readiness to return to activity after ACLR. Design: cross sectional study. Setting: controlled laboratory. Participants: 164 patients (82 M/82 F, 22.5 +/- 8.9yr, 171.6 +/- 11.0 cm, 77.4 +/- 18.6 kg, 8.6 +/- 3.4 months postACLR) participated in this study after a primary, isolated, and uncomplicated ACLR. Main outcome measures: ACL Return to Sport Index (ACL-RSI). Results: ACL-RSI scores demonstrated a weak positive correlation with activity level at the time of injury and a fair positive correlation with activity level at the time of post-operative testing (p-values: 0.004, <0.001). ACLRSI scores showed a statistically significant fair negative correlation with pain and a moderate negative correlation with kinesiophobia during rehabilitation (p-values: <0.001, <0.001). There was no statistical significance between ACL-RSI and the surgical variables (p-value range: 0.10-0.61). Conclusions: Outcomes from testing during postoperative rehabilitation were most correlated with psychological readiness to return to activity after ACLR. Increased pain and kinesiophobia were associated with a decreased psychological readiness. Increased activity level prior to injury and activity level at the time of testing during rehabilitation were both correlated with increased psychological readiness. Psychological readiness to return to activity may need to be customized based on potentially modifiable patient-specific factors during the postoperative rehabilitation.		[Hopper, Haleigh M.; Leicht, Amelia S. Bruce; Thompson, Xavier D.] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA 22904 USA; [Gwathmey, F. Winston; Miller, Mark D.; Werner, Brian C.; Brockmeier, Stephen F.; Diduch, David R.] Univ Virginia, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Hart, Joseph M.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Orthopaed, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Hopper, Haleigh M.] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA 22904 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001249980200001	28	Article; Article		
J	Coutinho, Diogo; Goncalves, Bruno; Kelly, Adam Leigh; Santos, Sara; Figueiredo, Pedro; Soares, Carlos; Travassos, Bruno								Exploring the impact of ball possession directionality on youth footballers' positioning, technical skills and physical abilities in small-sided games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2438	2448		10.1177/17479541241257016			DEC 2024	2024	This study aimed to investigate the effects of manipulating ball possession directionality (i.e., NO direction, MULTI direction or ONE direction) on the physical, tactical and technical performance of youth football players during small-sided games (SSGs). A total of 18 male youth football players (age: 13.6 +/- 0.4 years) participated in four testing days, where they completed three random order experimental tasks based on a 4vs4 SSG: (i) NO direction, where players performed a ball possession task without a specific direction to progress; (ii) MULTI direction, where two neutral players were added to the top of each pitch and players could use them to maintain possession; and (iii) ONE direction, where each team defended and scored in two small goals placed at opposite ends of the pitch. In the positioning perspective, the NO condition showed a higher spatial exploration index than the other two conditions (p = .001), while higher distance to the nearest teammate was identified in the MULTI (p = .007) and to the nearest opponent in the ONE (p < .001). In the physical variables, higher game pace (p = .002), total distance covered (p < .001) and jogging distance (p < .001) were identified in the MULTI than the other conditions. Lastly, from the technical perspective, players revealed better passing decision-making (p = .004) in the ONE than NO or MULTI conditions. Based on these results, coaches may use NO condition to emphasize space exploration, MULTI to increase external load and game pace, while ONE to emphasize technical actions related to ball control and pass.		[Coutinho, Diogo] Univ Maia UMAIA, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Maia, Portugal; [Coutinho, Diogo; Santos, Sara; Travassos, Bruno] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, CreativeLab Res Community, Vila Real, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Escola Saude & Desenvolvimento Humano, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno; Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Kelly, Adam Leigh] Birmingham City Univ, Res Ctr Life & Sport Sci CLaSS, Dept Sport & Exercise, Res Athlete & Youth Sport Dev RAYSD Lab,Sch Hlth, Birmingham, England; [Santos, Sara; Soares, Carlos] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Vila Real, Portugal; [Figueiredo, Pedro] United Arab Emirates Univ, Coll Educ, Phys Educ Dept, Al Ain, U Arab Emirates; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sports Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Coutinho, Diogo] Univ Inst Maia, Av Carlos Oliveira Campos, P-4475690 Castlo Da Maia, Portugal; [Coutinho, Diogo] Univ Inst Maia, Av Carlos Oliveira Campos, P-4475690 Castlo Da Maia, Portugal								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001233657500001	50	Article; Article		
J	Mulhearn, Shannon C.; Kulinna, Pamela H.								Sustainability Requires Many Faces of Support								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			843	852		10.1080/02701367.2024.2338871			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: This study focused on the sustainability of a school-wide health behavior intervention in rural schools in the Southwestern US. Informed by the seven premises of Theories of Action with Merit, the purpose of this study was to investigate which portion(s) of a five-year, school-wide health behavior intervention were still in practice (i.e. sustainable), and why they were maintained following the removal of funding and resources for the program. Method: Teachers (N = 41) participated in individual, semi-structured interviews during which they shared what aspects of the original intervention were retained as part of personal classroom practices or of the school culture. Teachers reflected on facilitators and barriers to the sustainability of these practices. Data also included field notes from campus visits. To establish trustworthiness, data triangulation (interview transcripts, survey results, and field notes) provided multiple angles of analysis, and two researchers negotiated all themes. Results: Using the premises of the Theories of Action with Merit, teachers' comments often circulated around themes of administrative support and personal investment/interest in healthy behaviors. Additional themes of sustainability included feeling capable and physical activity being the "norm" at their school. Conclusions: Teachers' personal beliefs and self-efficacy in physical literacy held the highest importance in sustaining classroom healthy behavior practices as opposed to the district or state expectations for healthy behaviors. Administrator support was key to whole-school integration and sustainability of practices, however, teachers described evidence of support differently suggesting administrators need awareness of how messages of support are being translated.		[Mulhearn, Shannon C.] Univ Nebraska, 1410 W 26th St,Cushing 130, Kearney, NE 68849 USA; [Kulinna, Pamela H.] Arizona State Univ, Tempe, AZ USA; [Mulhearn, Shannon C.] Univ Nebraska, 1410 W 26th St,Cushing 130, Kearney, NE 68849 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001230580000001	48	Article; Article		
J	Mazurek, Caitlin M.; Pearsall, David J.; Renaud, Philippe J.; Robbins, Shawn M.								Inter-Segment Coordination of Male and Female Collegiate Ice Hockey Players During Forward Skating Starts								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			834	842		10.1080/02701367.2024.2337936			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: Coordination in ice hockey skating has been minimally investigated, particularly in females. The objective was to compare lower-extremity inter-segment coordination of collegiate male and female ice hockey players during forward skating starts. Methods: 3D kinematic data were collected on collegiate male (n = 9) and female (n = 10) participants during accelerative steps. Continuous relative phase (CRP) was calculated for shank-sagittal/thigh-sagittal, shank-sagittal/thigh-frontal, and foot-sagittal/shank-sagittal segment pairs across 2.5 strides on each side. Principal component analysis (PCA) extracted features of greatest variability of the CRP and relationships between principal components and sex were investigated using hierarchical linear model. Results: Males demonstrated more out-of-phase coordination (higher CRP) for side one (p = .01) and side two (p < .01) shank-sagittal/thigh-sagittal as well as side one shank-sagittal/thigh-frontal (p < .01) segment pairs throughout each step. Females demonstrated a greater change in CRP from late stance/early swing to late swing/early stance on side two for shank-sagittal/thigh-frontal segments (p < .01). For side two shank-sagittal/thigh-frontal segments, faster males utilized more out-of-phase coordination throughout each step whereas faster females utilized more in-phase coordination (p < .01). Conclusion: Males and females may employ different coordinative strategies to achieve faster skating speeds. Males tend to utilize more out-of-phase coordination of the shank and thigh throughout strides, although coordinative differences of the shank and foot were not found between sexes. Further investigation is needed to examine the relationship between lower limb strength and coordination as well as the effect of targeted training protocols on lower extremity coordinative patterns.		[Mazurek, Caitlin M.; Pearsall, David J.; Renaud, Philippe J.; Robbins, Shawn M.] McGill Univ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Mazurek, Caitlin M.] McGill Univ, McGill Res Ctr Phys Act & Hlth, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 475 Pine Ave West, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Mazurek, Caitlin M.] McGill Univ, McGill Res Ctr Phys Act & Hlth, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 475 Pine Ave West, Montreal, PQ, Canada								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001229166400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Hyun Kyung; Mirjalili, Seyed Ali								Differences in running biomechanics and tibiotalar cartilage T2 relaxation time between runners with and without asymptomatic tibial sesamoid bone marrow edema - clinical case series								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3466	3477		10.1080/14763141.2024.2356859			DEC 1 2024	2024	The impact of asymptomatic bone marrow edema (BME) in sesamoids on running biomechanics remains largely unknown, but exploring this relationship could aid early detection of forefoot-related injuries with cost-effective modalities. This study aimed to compare the running biomechanics of runners with asymptomatic BME in the tibial sesamoids with that of healthy controls. Four runners with asymptomatic BME in tibial sesamoids and four healthy runners participated. Lower extremity joint kinetics and kinematics were assessed along with plantar pressure while running at a self-selected speed. The T2 relaxation time of the tibiotalar cartilage was measured using MRI-derived T2 maps. Compared to the non-injured group, the injured group exhibited significantly lower plantar pressure under the hallux (p = 0.001), increased peak ankle rotation angles (p = 0.025), reduced ankle power generation (p = 0.049), and increased knee extension torque (p = 0.015). No significant differences in T2 values of the tibiotalar cartilage were observed. It appears that runners with asymptomatic BME adapted their running strategies by modifying their ankle biomechanics and reducing plantar pressure, even in the absence of pain. While the precise implications of these biomechanical alterations warrant further investigation, this study provides valuable insights into the relationship between asymptomatic BME and running biomechanics.		[Kim, Hyun Kyung] Louisiana State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Mirjalili, Seyed Ali] Univ Auckland, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Kim, Hyun Kyung] Louisiana State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001233757100001	31	Article; Article		
J	Dennis, Justin D.; Holmes, Skylar C.; Heredia, Caitlyn; Shumski, Eric J.; Pamukoff, Derek N.								Lower extremity joint angle, moment, and coordination throughout a double limb drop vertical jump in individuals with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1753	1768		10.1080/14763141.2024.2356845			JUN 3 2025	2025	Individuals with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) utilise different landing biomechanics between limbs, but previous analyses have not considered the continuous or simultaneous joint motion that occurs during landing and propulsion. The purpose of this study was to compare sagittal plane ankle/knee and knee/hip coordination patterns as well as ankle, knee, and hip angles and moments and vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) between the ACLR and uninjured limbs during landing and propulsion. Fifteen females and thirteen males performed a drop vertical jump from a 30 cm box placed half their height from force platforms. Coordination was compared using a modified vector coding technique and binning analysis. Kinematics and kinetics were time normalised for waveform analyses. Coordination was not different between limbs. The ACLR limb had smaller dorsiflexion angles from 11 to 16% of landing and 24 to 75% of landing and propulsion, knee flexion moments from 5 to 15% of landing, 20 to 31% of landing, and 35 to 91% of landing and propulsion, and vGRF from 92 to 94% of propulsion compared with the uninjured limb. The ACLR limb exhibited smaller dorsiflexion angles to potentially reduce the knee joint moment arm and mitigate the eccentric and concentric demands on the ACLR knee during landing and propulsion, respectively.		[Dennis, Justin D.] Univ North Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sports Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Dennis, Justin D.] Calif State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Holmes, Skylar C.] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Kinesiol, Amherst, MA USA; [Heredia, Caitlyn] New England Revolut, Dept Sports Med, Foxboro, MA USA; [Shumski, Eric J.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA USA; [Pamukoff, Derek N.] Western Univ, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON, Canada; [Dennis, Justin D.] Univ North Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sports Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Dennis, Justin D.] Calif State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001227891800001	51	Article; Article		
J	Costa, Tobias dos Santos; Rossato, Mateus; Rodrigues, Obadias; Aquino, Rodrigo; Bedo, Bruno Souza; Leonardo, Lucas; Machado, Joao Claudio; Clemente, Filipe; Kempe, Matthias								The impact of different game formats on players' and team performance in youth soccer competitions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2016	2023		10.1177/17479541241252946			OCT 2024	2024	The study aimed to investigate the impact of game formats on the running and technical-tactical performance of young soccer players, as well as on players' dynamics of spatial occupation during competitions. Eleven players of a U-11 team (11.10 +/- 0.39 years old) participated in three competitions specifically designed to analyze the impact of different game formats: 5vs5 (F-5), 7vs7 (F-7) and 11vs11 (F-11). Players' running performance and dynamics of spatial occupation were analyzed using the GPSs devices from WIMU PRO (TM) devices (10 Hz). Players' and team's technical-tactical performance was also analyzed using the Team Sports Assessment Procedure (TSAP) and the Offensive Sequence Characterization System (SCSO), respectively. It was observed that the teams tended to adopt a less direct style in the F-11 (LpW: F7 vs. F-11 p = 0.001 and F-5 vs. F-11 p = 0.002), with a lower rate of spatial exploration (F-7 vs. F-11 p = 0.001 and &&F-5 vs. F-11 p = 0.001) and lower running demand (Sprint: F-7 vs. F-11 p = 0.001 and F-5 vs. F-11 p = 0.014; HSR: F-7 vs. F-11 p = 0.001 and F-5 vs. F-11 p = .001). In addition, the F-11 allowed the players to have less involvement during the match (F-7 vs. F-11 p = 0.003; F-5 vs. F-11 p = 0.001), as well as a lower technical-tactical performance (F-7 vs. F-11 p = .003 and F-5 vs. F-11 p = .005). Our results highlight the importance of adjusting the game formats used in youth competitive environments to players' intrinsic dynamics.		[Clemente, Filipe] Polytech Inst Viana Castelo, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Kempe, Matthias] Univ Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands; [Costa, Tobias dos Santos] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Educ Fis, Manaus, AM, Brazil; [Rossato, Mateus; Rodrigues, Obadias; Leonardo, Lucas] Univ Fed Amazonas, Manaus, AM, Brazil; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Ctr Phys Educ & Sports CEFD, Dept Sports, LabSport, Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Bedo, Bruno Souza] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Machado, Joao Claudio] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Av Gen Rodrigo Otavio Jordao Ramos 6-200, BR-69077000 Manaus, Brazil; [Machado, Joao Claudio] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Av Gen Rodrigo Otavio Jordao Ramos 6-200, BR-69077000 Manaus, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001224960000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Serrano-Dura, Jose; Devis-Devis, Jose; Martinez-Baena, Alejandro; Molina, Pere								Misconduct of Spanish grassroots soccer coaches through referees' reports: Variability by match format, age category, sex, and severity								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			1916	1926		10.1177/17479541241252952			OCT 2024	2024	This study aimed to describe and analyse the disciplinary sanctions received by grassroots soccer coaches in the Valencian Community (Spain) over five seasons. Specific objectives included determining the influence of format (8-a-side or 11-a-side), age (U7, U9, U11, U13, U15, and U18), sex category (male or female), and sanction severity (mild [one to four matches] or serious [five matches to a full season]). A study was conducted based on referees' records from 275,844 games played in 1401 league competitions during five subsequent seasons between 2014 and 2019 in Valencia (Spain). A total of 3563 sanctions were recorded by matchday referees, with the majority being minor offences (92.93%) and most being imposed on 11-a-side soccer coaches (87%). The most frequent reasons for sanctions pertained to protests to referees (28%); dismissal due to double reprimands (26.40%); contemptuous and inconsiderate attitudes towards referees, including insults and threats (19.53%); and direct sending-offs (8.84%). Significantly more mild sanctions were found than serious ones, with more sanctions emerging in the 11-a-side soccer than in the 8-a-side soccer and the men's category compared to the women's category. Finally, we found significantly more sanctions in the U18 men's category compared to all other younger age categories and in the U15 men's category compared to the U7, U9 and U9-U11 female categories (p < .05).		[Serrano-Dura, Jose] Univ Europea Valencia, Social Sci Dept, Valencia, Spain; [Devis-Devis, Jose; Molina, Pere] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Valencia, Spain; [Martinez-Baena, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Dept Didact Musical Plast & Bodily Express, Granada, Spain; [Serrano-Dura, Jose] Univ Europea Valencia, Pg Albereda 7, Valencia 46010, Spain; [Serrano-Dura, Jose] Univ Europea Valencia, Pg Albereda 7, Valencia 46010, Spain								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001225557900001	50	Article; Article		
J	Roberts, Charlie Jon; Hurst, Howard Thomas; Keay, Nicola; Hamer, Jennifer; Sims, Stacy; Schofield, Katherine L.; Hardwicke, Jack								An appetite to win: Disordered eating behaviours amongst competitive cyclists								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2210	2221		10.1177/17479541241251688			OCT 2024	2024	Competitive cyclists may be vulnerable to disordered eating (DE) and eating disorders (ED) due to perceived body composition optimisation and external influences within cycling culture and from stakeholders. Therefore, this study aimed to assess DE and ED risk in competitive cyclists using the Eating Attitudes Test (EAT-26), explore differences in responses based on sex, discipline and level of competition, and to gain insights into contributing factors towards DE via open-ended survey questions. In total, 203 participants completed a mixed-method questionnaire. Eating disorders were reported by 5.7% (n = 11) of participants, with three being historic cases. The median (inter-quartile range) EAT-26 score was 8 (12) of a total possible score of 78. Disordered eating risk was observed in 16.7% of participants due to an EAT-26 score >= 20. Female participants had significantly higher scores than male participants (12.5 +/- 17.5 vs. 6.5 +/- 10.0; p = .004). There was no significant difference between road cyclists and off-road cyclists (7.0 +/- 13.25 vs. 8.0 +/- 10.5; p = .683). There was a significant difference in scores between novice/club/regional and national/elite/professional cyclists (6.0 +/- 11.25 vs. 10.5 +/- 12.0; p = .007). Thematic analysis of open-text responses found that the social environment of competitive cycling contributed towards DE behaviours and body image issues. These findings indicate competitive cyclists do appear to be an 'at risk' population for DE/ED. Therefore, there is need for stakeholders to enhance nutritional services, nutrition education and create supportive athlete environments.		[Roberts, Charlie Jon] Birmingham City Univ, Human Performance & Hlth Res Grp, Birmingham, England; [Roberts, Charlie Jon] Univ Northampton, Fac Arts Sci & Technol, Northampton NN1 5PH, England; [Hurst, Howard Thomas] Univ Cent Lancashire, Ctr Appl Sport Phys Act & Performance, Preston, England; [Keay, Nicola] UCL, Div Med, London, England; [Hamer, Jennifer] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Gold Coast, Australia; [Sims, Stacy] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Sims, Stacy] Stanford Univ, Stanford Lifestyle Med, Palo Alto, CA USA; [Schofield, Katherine L.] High Performance Sport New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Hardwicke, Jack] Nottingham Trent Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Nottingham, England; [Roberts, Charlie Jon] Univ Northampton, Fac Arts Sci & Technol, Northampton NN1 5PH, England								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001224935700001	71	Article; Article		
J	Feros, Simon Andrew; Gerhardy, Michael H.; Fyfe, Jackson J.; Dwyer, Dan B.								The kinematics of pace bowling associated with lumbar bone stress injuries: Disparities observed in elite male and female cricketers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2136	2143		10.1177/17479541241249814			OCT 2024	2024	Elite cricket pace bowlers commonly sustain debilitating bone stress injuries. Lumbar bone stress injuries are more prominent in males, while lower limb bone stress injuries are more common in females. Bone stress injuries are partly attributable to bowling technique; however, scant research exists comparing bowling techniques of males and females as to better understand why males are more susceptible to lumbar bone stress injury. Three-dimensional pace bowling kinematics previously linked with lumbar bone stress injury were compared between 59 male and 19 female elite pace bowlers. Participants bowled 18 match-intensity deliveries indoors from a full run-up, whereby the mean of six deliveries was analyzed. Compared to females, males exhibited: a more extended thoraco-pelvic segment at back foot contact (p = 0.039, g = 0.46), larger shoulder counter-rotation from back foot contact to front foot flat (p = 0.021, g = 0.64), greater thoraco-pelvic lateral flexion at front foot flat (p = 0.001, g = 0.95), larger front knee flexion at ball release (p = 0.046, g = 0.57), and greater maximum front knee flexion from front foot flat to ball release (p = 0.009, g = 0.57). Australian elite male pace bowlers performed techniques linked to lumbar bone stress injury to a much greater extent than their female counterparts. A straighter front leg technique observed in elite Australian females may be why they more commonly experience lower limb bone stress injuries via possibly higher vertical loading rates. This information may assist in developing sex-specific bone stress injury risk mitigation approaches.		[Feros, Simon Andrew; Gerhardy, Michael H.; Dwyer, Dan B.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res CSR, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong Waurn Ponds Campus,75 Pigdons Road, Geelong, Vic 3216, Australia; [Feros, Simon Andrew; Gerhardy, Michael H.; Fyfe, Jackson J.; Dwyer, Dan B.] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr IPAN, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne Burwood Campus, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Feros, Simon Andrew] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res CSR, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong Waurn Ponds Campus,75 Pigdons Road, Geelong, Vic 3216, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001224925000001	30	Article; Article		
J	Hussain, Umer; Ma, Han								The gendered plate: gender-specific food perceptions and sport sponsorship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	4			822	838		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2024-0034			AUG 21 2024	2024	Purpose - This study aimed to investigate the relationship between food sponsorships and gender stereotypes, focusing on how patriarchal beliefs influence consumers' purchase intentions in sports. Design/methodology/approach - The research comprised two studies. In Study 1, n = 161 participants participated via Amazon's Mechanical Turk platform. Study 2 involved n = 250 participants who completed a cross-sectional and self-administered survey. Findings - Study 1 indicated an apparent gender-based categorization of certain foods and beverages: beer and red meat were predominantly perceived as masculine, while yogurt, salads, and wine were seen as feminine. Further, brands like Budweiser and Red Bull were mainly seen as masculine, while Chobani and Smoothie King were perceived as feminine. Moreover, findings indicate that foods, especially those rich in protein or linked to BBQ and spicy tastes, are considered more masculine by men than women in sports settings. Further, Study 2 findings unveiled a significant relationship between patriarchal beliefs and both attitudes (beta = 0.327, p < 0.01) and subjective norms (beta = 0.525, p < 0.01) towards masculine brands. Originality/value - The two studies' results underscore the profound impact of gender stereotypes shaping sports fans' perceptions of food items and the brands sponsoring them. This inquiry significantly augments the current understanding of the nuanced interrelation between the paradigms of social role theory and the theory of planned behavior, particularly within the ambit of sports-related sponsorship by food and beverage brands and its consequent influence on consumer purchasing inclinations.		[Hussain, Umer; Ma, Han] Wilkes Univ, Coll Business & Engn, Sidhu Sch Business & Leadership, Wilkes Barre, PA 18766 USA; [Hussain, Umer] Wilkes Univ, Coll Business & Engn, Sidhu Sch Business & Leadership, Wilkes Barre, PA 18766 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001222541000001	59	Article; Article		
J	Cherelstein, Rachel E.; Ulman, Sophia; Kuenze, Christopher M.; Harkey, Matthew S.; Butler, Lauren S.		ARROW						Greater changes in self-reported activity level are associated with decreased quality of life in patients following an anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				149	154		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.04.002			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: To determine the association between change in physical activity level, as defined as the change from pre-to post-operative Tegner Activity Scale, and quality of life (QOL) after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR), before patients are cleared for return to sport. Participants: 1198 participants (42.9% male; 18.7 +/- 3.6 years; 7.1 +/- 3.7 months post-ACLR). Main outcome measures: Surveys included Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score QOL (KOOS-QOL) subscale and Tegner Activity Scale. KOOS-QOL score >= 62.5 is considered as meeting a previously established patient acceptable symptom state. Results: The acceptable KOOS-QOL group reported a significantly smaller decrease in activity level from preinjury to time of data collection (median: 2.00, IQR: 2.00) than the unacceptable KOOS-QOL group (median: 3.00, IQR: 3.00). Across the full cohort, for every one-point larger decrease in Tegner score from pre-to postACLR, there is a 52% increase in the odds of having an unacceptable KOOS-QOL score. For adolescents, the odds increase to 60% while the odds for adults were lower at 39%. Conclusions: Following ACLR, greater decreases in physical activity level are associated with poorer QOL for both adolescents and adults at short-term follow-up, and this effect is larger amongst adolescents.		[Cherelstein, Rachel E.; Kuenze, Christopher M.] Inova Hlth Syst, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Med, Fairfax, VA USA; [Ulman, Sophia] Scottish Rite Children, Frisco, TX USA; [Ulman, Sophia] Univ Texas Southwestern Med Ctr, Dallas, TX USA; [Kuenze, Christopher M.] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Harkey, Matthew S.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI USA; [Butler, Lauren S.] Florida Int Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Miami, FL USA; [Butler, Lauren S.; ARROW] Nicklaus Childrens Hosp, Miami, FL USA; [Cherelstein, Rachel E.] 8100 Innovat Pk Dr Suite 110, Fairfax, VA 22031 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001299973500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Shinchi, Kotaro; Yamashita, Daichi; Yamagishi, Takaki; Aoki, Kazuhiro; Miyamoto, Naokazu								Relationship between jump height and lower limb joint kinetics and kinematics during countermovement jump in elite male athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3454	3465		10.1080/14763141.2024.2351212			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study aims to identify the relationship between jump height and the kinetic and kinematic parameters of the hip, knee, and ankle joints during countermovement jump (CMJ) in elite male athletes. Sixty-six elite male athletes from various sports (strength and power, winter downhill, combat, ball game, and aquatic) performed maximal effort CMJs with hands and arms crossed against their chests on force platforms. Jumping motion in the sagittal plane was recorded using video analysis and the peak torque, power, and angular velocity of the right hip, knee, and ankle joints were calculated during the propulsive phase. Correlations between the CMJ height and kinetic and kinematic parameters were investigated using Pearson's product-moment coefficient (r) and Spearman's rank correlation coefficient (rho). CMJ height was highly correlated with peak hip power (rho = 0.686, p < 0.001) and peak knee angular velocity (r = 0.517, p < 0.001), and moderately correlated with peak hip angular velocity (r = 0.438, p < 0.001) and peak hip torque (r = 0.398, p = 0.001). These results indicate that notable hip torque and power can contribute to increased angular velocity in both the knee and hip joints, ultimately increasing the CMJ height in elite male athletes.		[Shinchi, Kotaro; Aoki, Kazuhiro; Miyamoto, Naokazu] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Chiba, Japan; [Shinchi, Kotaro; Yamashita, Daichi] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Med & Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Yamashita, Daichi; Yamagishi, Takaki; Miyamoto, Naokazu] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci & Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Yamashita, Daichi] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Med & Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Yamashita, Daichi] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci & Res, Tokyo, Japan								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001222623700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Breed, R.; Kay, A.; Spittle, M.; Orth, D.								The Effect of Pedagogical Approach on Physical Activity of Girls During Physical Education								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			824	833		10.1080/02701367.2024.2329165			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: Technical approaches (TAs) such as Direct Instruction are commonly utilized when teaching games in Physical Education (PE) classes, but game-based approaches (GBAs) such as Game Sense (GS) have gained greater interest over the past 30 years. However, little is known about which approach promotes more physical activity (PA). The aim of this study was to compare the PA of girls during single-gender PE classes in an invasion games unit utilizing either a GS approach or a TA. Methods: Two upper primary school PE classes were taught invasion games using a GS approach and two classes were taught using a TA. During each of the 7 lessons students wore a wearable GPS sensor (SPT2, Sport Performance Tracking, Australia) which measured total distance, distance in each speed zone, top speed and 3D load. Results: The GS group traveled a greater distance than the TA group (+203 m, p < .001). This result was explained mostly by a greater distance covered in zone 2 speeds (0.6-1.7 m/s). The 3D load was also significantly higher in the GS group, but there were no group differences in top speed. Conclusions: Findings suggested that a GS thematic invasion unit was more effective in promoting PA levels in all-girl primary PE classes than a traditional sport-based invasion unit.		[Breed, R.; Kay, A.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth & Biostat, Hawthorn, VIC 3122, Australia; [Spittle, M.] Univ Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Orth, D.] Brunel Univ London, London, England; [Breed, R.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Sch Hlth & Biostat, Hawthorn, VIC 3122, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001228890100001	58	Article; Article		
J	Haug, William B.; Pain, Matthew T. G.								Using a simple model to systematically examine the influence of force-velocity profile and power on vertical jump performance with different constraints								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3421	3448		10.1080/14763141.2024.2351615			NOV 2 2025	2025	Power, and recently force-velocity (F-V) profiling, are well-researched and oft cited critical components for sports performance but both are still debated; some would say misused. A neat, applied formulation of power and linear F-V in the literature is practically useful but there is a dearth of fundamental explanations of how power and F-V interact with human and environmental constraints. To systematically explore the interactions of a linear F-V profile, peak power, gravity, mass, range of motion (ROM), and initial activation conditions, a forward dynamics point mass model of vertical jumping was parameterised from an athlete. With no constraints and for a given peak power, F-V favouring higher velocity performed better, but were impacted more under real-world conditions of gravity and finite ROM meaning the better F-V was dependent on constraints. Increasing peak power invariably increased jump height but improvement was dependent on the initial F-V and if it was altered by changing maximal force or velocity. When mass was changed along with power and F-V there was a non-linear interaction and jump improvement could be almost as large for a F-V change as an increase in power. An ideal F-V profile cannot be identified without knowledge of mass and ROM.		[Haug, William B.; Pain, Matthew T. G.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Haug, William B.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001221156300001	39	Article; Article		
J	Astrella, Andrea; Iordanov, Daniel; De Caro, Dario; Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro; Mendiguchia, Jurdan								Biceps femoris muscle-tendon strain during an entire overground sprint acceleration: a biomechanical explanation for hamstring injuries in the acceleration phase								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1725	1738		10.1080/14763141.2024.2353233			JUN 3 2025	2025	The objectives of this study were to analyse the peak muscle-tendon (MT) strain of the hamstring during an entire acceleration sprint overground and examine their relationship with relative joint angles and segment orientation in the sagittal plane, which are the direct causes of MT strain. Kinematic data were recorded using a 3D inertial motion capture system in 21 male semi-professional soccer players during 40-metre overground sprint. Scaled musculoskeletal models were used to estimate peak MT strain in the hamstring over 16 steps. Biceps femoris long head (BFLH) exhibited the largest peaks in MT strain compared to semitendinosus (ST) and semimembranosus (SM) muscles across all the steps, with its overall strain decreased as the number of steps and maximum speed increased. Hip flexion angle was found to be a strong predictor (p < 0.001) of joint angles, being the orientation of the pelvis in the sagittal plane of the segment with the greatest influence (p < 0.001) on the peak MT strain of BFLH during sprinting. The current study provides a biomechanical explanation for the high proportion of hamstring injuries in the acceleration phase of sprinting.		[Astrella, Andrea] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Int Doctoral Sch, Madrid, Spain; [Astrella, Andrea; De Caro, Dario; Mendiguchia, Jurdan] RX2 Sports & Hlth, Dept Muscle Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Iordanov, Daniel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Madrid, Spain; [Mendiguchia, Jurdan] Performance Ctr, Zent Rehab, Dept Phys Therapy, Baranain, Spain; [Astrella, Andrea] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Int Doctoral Sch, Madrid, Spain; [Astrella, Andrea] RX2 Sports & Hlth, Dept Muscle Sci, Madrid, Spain								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001221592000001	43	Article; Article		
J	Mizelman, Eliran; Pearson, Aaron; Chu, Dani; Clarke, David C.								Critical speed models of high-resolution speed-duration profiles describe peak running demands in soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2056	2066		10.1177/17479541241246951			OCT 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to characterize critical speed (CS) models for summarizing high-resolution speed-duration profiles from GPS tracking data obtained from soccer players. GPS data from 15 male NCAA Division I soccer players were collected during practices and games over a 6-week period. Moving averages of the speed data were computed for each file for duration windows spanning 0.1 to 600 seconds at 0.1-second resolution. Speed-duration profiles for each session and for the entire sampling period ("global") were generated for each player by selecting the maximal mean speeds for each duration. Four models were fit to the profiles: the two-parameter CS (CS2) model, the three-parameter CS (CS3) model, the omni-domain speed-duration (OmSD) model, and the five-parameter logistic (5PL) model. The 5PL, CS3, and OmSD models exhibited similar goodness of fits, and all outperformed the CS2 model. Similar CS estimates were obtained for each model, whereas maximum speed (Smax) estimates were lower for OmSD compared to the 5PL. Players exhibited a range of parameter values for CS, D ', and Smax. Smax and CS estimated from session-specific speed-duration profiles were on average higher for games compared to practices. We conclude that CS models are useful for empirically describing speed-duration profiles and for assessing peak running demands for soccer practices and games. The proposed approach could help coaches design practice activities to better mimic game demands.		[Mizelman, Eliran; Pearson, Aaron; Chu, Dani; Clarke, David C.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Sports Analyt Grp, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Pearson, Aaron] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Ecole Kinesiol & Sci Act Phys, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Chu, Dani] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Stat & Actuarial Sci, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Chu, Dani] Simon Fraser Univ, Sports Analyt Grp, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Clarke, David C.] Pacific Inst Sport Excellence, Canadian Sport Inst Pacific, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Mizelman, Eliran] Briar Cliff Univ, Dept Exercise & Hlth Sci, Sioux City, IA USA; [Pearson, Aaron] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Off KNB220, Calgary, AB T2N1N4, Canada; [Chu, Dani] Seattle Kraken, 10601 5th Ave NE, Seattle, WA 98119 USA; [Clarke, David C.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A1S6, Canada; [Clarke, David C.] Simon Fraser Univ, Sports Analyt Grp, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A1S6, Canada; [Clarke, David C.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A1S6, Canada; [Clarke, David C.] Simon Fraser Univ, Sports Analyt Grp, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A1S6, Canada								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001219090600001	44	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Nathan P.; Gallo, Robert A.								Return to play and athletic performance in division I female volleyball players following anterior cruciate ligament injury								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				53	1			12	17		10.1080/00913847.2024.2351790			JAN 2 2025	2025	Objectives: The purpose of this study is to examine NCAA Division I volleyball players' return to play rates and performance statistics compared to pre-injury levels following ACL injury. Methods: Female volleyball players that sustained ACL injuries from 2008 to 2020 and competed in one of seven collegiate conferences (n = 99) were identified via an internet search algorithm. Players were categorized by position, academic year, and playing time pre- and post-injury. Post-injury performance statistics were gathered for a subset of outside hitters and middle blockers that played in >= 35 sets in a single season for up to 3 years following injury (mean 1.7 seasons). A control group (n = 512) was generated for demographic and statistical comparison. Mean pre-injury and post-injury statistics were compared for players that did not change positions and played >= 35 sets before and after injury. Results: Volleyball attackers were 54.7% of the control population but sustained 78.8% of identified injuries. Following ACL injury, 6.1% of players registered no in-game statistics, 16.2% played in <35 sets, 65.7% played in >= 35 sets, and 12.1% graduated. Mean performance statistics increased linearly the more years players were from ACL injury. Conclusions: Female collegiate volleyball players return to play following ACL injury at high rates (93.1%) and maintain pre-injury performance levels. Volleyball attackers sustain ACL injuries more commonly than setters and libero/defensive specialists.		[Smith, Nathan P.; Gallo, Robert A.] Penn State Milton S Hershey Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed & Rehabil, Hershey, PA 17033 USA; [Smith, Nathan P.] Penn State Milton S Hershey Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed & Rehabil, Hershey, PA 17033 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001215582900001	18	Article; Article		
J	Casamichana, David; Barba, Eider; Gantois, Petrus; Nakamura, Fabio; Erkizia, Benat; Castellano, Julen								Match-play running demands in a female soccer professional club: From academy to professional team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2045	2055		10.1177/17479541241248610			OCT 2024	2024	The objective of the study was to examine the match-running load of female soccer players competing at distinct age groups (U15, U18 and senior cohorts) belonging to the same professional club, over a competitive season. The external load variables of the official matches were monitored with Global Positioning System (GPS) technology: total distance (TD), at >18 km<middle dot>h(-1) (running), at >21 km<middle dot>h(-1) (high-speed running, HSR) and at >24 km<middle dot>h(-1) (sprint, SPR) distances, efforts at >85% of the maximal sprint speed (>85% MSS), acceleration load (aLoaD), accelerations (ACC2 and ACC3, >2 and >3 m<middle dot>s(-2)) and decelerations (DEC2 and DEC3 <-2 and <-3 m<middle dot>s(-2)). Overall, distances covered at running, HSR and sprinting were greater for senior players than their younger peers (U15 and U18; p < 0.05). Regarding HSR and sprints, no difference was found for sprints accumulated by central defender (CD) players in comparison to U18 and U15 (p > 0.05). In addition, U18 and senior players engaged more often in ACC and DEC, >2 and >3 m<middle dot>s(-2), respectively, than U15 players (p < 0.05). In conclusion, older female soccer players are exposed to higher match load than their younger peers. These findings could be useful for soccer coaches to design specific speed development programmes across the long-term athletic development pathway.		[Casamichana, David; Barba, Eider; Erkizia, Benat] Real Sociedad Sports Performance Dept, San Sebastian, Spain; [Barba, Eider; Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Res Grp GIKAFIT, Vitoria, Spain; [Gantois, Petrus] Associate Grad Program Phys Educ UPE UFPB, Joao Pessoa, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio] Univ Maia UMAI, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Casamichana, David] Real Sociedad Sports Performance Dept, Zubieta Real Sociedad, Paseo Arrapide 52, San Sebastian 20170, Guipuzcoa, Spain; [Casamichana, David] Real Sociedad Sports Performance Dept, Zubieta Real Sociedad, Paseo Arrapide 52, San Sebastian 20170, Guipuzcoa, Spain								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001217522300001	48	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Ye Hoon; Cho, Heetae								The relationships among trait mindfulness, obsessive passion, and emotions in high school sport managers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1479	1489		10.1177/17479541241247790			AUG 2024	2024	Purpose Mindfulness emerges as a possible means to alleviate obsessive passion. Nevertheless, its application in sport leadership context remains understudied, despite the significant levels of stress and turnover that are common in this profession. This study aims to investigate the relationships among trait mindfulness, obsessive passion, and specific positive (e.g., happiness), neutral (e.g., calmness), and negative (e.g., anger) emotions in high school sport managers.Method In total, 358 high school sport managers (Mage = 48.47, SD = 8.93) working in 46 states in the United States completed the online questionnaires measuring the proposed variables. Descriptive statistics, correlation analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, and structural equation modeling were utilized to examine the hypotheses.Result The results showed that trait mindfulness negatively predicted obsessive passion. Additionally, obsessive passion negatively predicted the feelings of happiness and calmness, while it positively predicted anger. The mediation analysis revealed that obsessive passion fully mediated the relationships between trait mindfulness and the three types of emotion.Conclusion These findings are significant because they demonstrate the buffering role of trait mindfulness in obsessive passion. Furthermore, the study provides meaningful insights into sport managers' emotional experiences, particularly by empirically examining the effect of obsessive passion on different emotions.		[Lee, Ye Hoon] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Div Global Sport Ind, Seoul, Gyeonggi, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Susungkwan 05131,2066 Seobu Ro, Seoul 16419, Gyeonggi, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Susungkwan 05131,2066 Seobu Ro, Seoul 16419, Gyeonggi, South Korea								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001216497600001	78	Article; Article		
J	Koga, Daiki; Nakazono, Yusaku; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Sengoku, Yasuo; Kudo, Shigetada; Takagi, Hideki								Comparison of foot pressure distribution and foot kinematics in undulatory underwater swimming between performance levels								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1693	1709		10.1080/14763141.2024.2341014			JUN 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to elucidate the foot kinematics and foot pressure difference characteristics of faster swimmers in undulatory underwater swimming (UUS). In total, eight faster and eight slower swimmers performed UUS in a water flume at a flow velocity set at 80% of the maximal effort swimming velocity. The toe velocity and foot angle of attack were measured using a motion capture system. A total of eight small pressure sensors were attached to the surface of the left foot to calculate the pressure difference between the plantar and dorsal sides of the foot. Differences in the mean values of each variable between the groups were analysed. Compared to the slower swimmers, the faster swimmers exhibited a significantly higher swimming velocity (1.53 +/- 0.06 m/s vs. 1.31 +/- 0.08 m/s) and a larger mean pressure difference in the phase from the start of the up-kick until the toe moved forward relative to the body (3.88 +/- 0.65 kPa vs. 2.66 +/- 1.19 kPa). The faster group showed higher toe vertical velocity and toe direction of movement, switching from lateral to medial at the time of generating the larger foot pressure difference in the up-kick, providing insight into the reasons behind the foot kinematics of high UUS performance swimmers.		[Koga, Daiki; Nakazono, Yusaku; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Sengoku, Yasuo; Kudo, Shigetada; Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Koga, Daiki] Tokyo Inst Technol, Sch Engn, Dept Syst & Control Engn, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan; [Koga, Daiki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Koga, Daiki] Tokyo Inst Technol, Sch Engn, Dept Syst & Control Engn, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001214754000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Flores, Hebert Nunes; Tamujo, Augusto Camillo; Cetolin, Tiago; Ribeiro-Alvares, Joao Breno; de Noronha, Marcos; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini; Haupenthal, Alessandro								Muscle Pain Code: a novel tool for screening the risk of time-loss muscle injury in professional male football players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	6			608	613		10.1080/00913847.2024.2346463			NOV 1 2024	2024	ObjectiveTo investigate the association of a novel post-match muscle pain map, named Muscle Pain Code (MPC), with the risk of subsequent time-loss muscle injury in a cohort of professional football (soccer) players.MethodsThe MPC classifies pain in four codes: code 0, 'no pain;' code 1, 'generalized muscle pain;' code 2, 'diffused site muscle pain;' and code 3, 'specific site muscle pain.' Over four consecutive seasons, MPC was collected on the second post-match day and players were followed for occurrence of time-loss muscle injury over the next five days. Players exposed to at least 45 minutes in two consecutive matches within seven days were included as cases for analysis.ResultsEighty players participated in the study. Of 1,656 cases analyzed, 229 resulted in time-loss muscle injuries. Only 2% of cases with codes 0 and 1 resulted in time-loss muscle injuries. Conversely, 63% and 78% of codes 2 and 3 were followed by time-loss muscle injuries, respectively. Compared with the reference scenario (i.e. code 0 on MPC), the risk of subsequent time-loss muscle injury was significantly higher when players recorded code 2 (odds ratio, 4.29; 95%CI, 3.62 to 4.96) or code 3 (odds ratio, 5.01; 95%CI, 4.05 to 5.98) on MPC, but not when they recorded code 1 (odds ratio = -0.27; 95%CI, 1.05 to 0.56).ConclusionsPlayers experiencing well-outlined pain area on the second post-match day were more likely to incur a time-loss muscle injury in the subsequent days compared to those experiencing spreading pain or no pain.		[Flores, Hebert Nunes; Tamujo, Augusto Camillo; Ribeiro-Alvares, Joao Breno; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Cetolin, Tiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Grad Program Neurosci, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [de Noronha, Marcos] La Trobe Univ, Dept Community & Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Haupenthal, Alessandro] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Ararangua, SC, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Sarmento Leite St 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Sarmento Leite St 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001216090500001	23	Article; Article		
J	Bianchi, Davide; Sethi, Nitin K.; Velasco, George; Qureshi, Uneeb A.; DeWeber, Kevin								Care of The Older Fighter: Position Statement of the Association of Ringside Physicians								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	6			585	591		10.1080/00913847.2024.2344227			NOV 1 2024	2024	Older Fighters are defined as combat sports athletes older than 35 years, based on heightened medical risks and historical classification. Age-related changes to the neurological, cardiopulmonary, endocrinological, thermoregulatory, osmoregulatory, and musculoskeletal systems increase these athletes' risks for injury and may prolong their recovery. These age-related risks warrant special considerations for competition, licensure, prefight medical clearance, in-fight supervision, post-fight examination, and counseling regarding training practices and retirement from combat sports. Neurological considerations include increased risk of intracranial lesions, intracranial hemorrhage, and sequelae from traumatic brain injury (TBI), warranting more comprehensive neurological evaluation and neuroimaging. Increased risk of myocardial ischemia and infarction warrant careful assessment of cardiac risk factors and scrutiny of cardiovascular fitness. Older fighters may take longer time to recover from musculoskeletal injury; post-injury clearance should be individualized.		[Bianchi, Davide] FERDI, Geneva, Switzerland; [Sethi, Nitin K.] Weill Cornell Med Ctr, New York, NY USA; [Velasco, George] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Med, New York, NY USA; [Qureshi, Uneeb A.] Loma Linda Univ, Sch Med, US Publ Hlth Serv, Loma Linda, CA USA; [DeWeber, Kevin] SW Washington Sports Med Fellowship, Vancouver, WA USA; [DeWeber, Kevin] Oregon Hlth & Sci Univ, Portland, OR USA; [DeWeber, Kevin] Univ Washington, Seattle, WA USA; [Velasco, George] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Mt Sinai Morningside, Dept Med, 1111 Amsterdam Ave, New York, NY 10025 USA; [Velasco, George] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Mt Sinai West, 1111 Amsterdam Ave, New York, NY 10025 USA; [Velasco, George] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Mt Sinai Morningside, Dept Med, 1111 Amsterdam Ave, New York, NY 10025 USA; [Velasco, George] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Mt Sinai West, 1111 Amsterdam Ave, New York, NY 10025 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001214714100001	74	Article; Article		
J	Jacobs, Jolandi; Olivier, Benita; Brandt, Corlia								Injury profiles in sub-elite Women's Cricket: Exploring incidence, prevalence, nature, onset and body region								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				125	130		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.04.006			MAY 2024	2024	Introduction: The rise in participation in sports, like women 's cricket, is linked with increased injury risk. Providing high-level longitudinal data is the first step in implementing evidence -based injury prevention strategies. Design: Prospective cohort study. Objective: This cohort study aims to describe the injury profiles in sub -elite women 's cricket in South Africa during the 2022/23 season. Methods: Injuries were prospectively recorded using injury surveillance questionnaires, injury surveillance database, and logbooks completed by each team 's medical staff. Injury rates were investigated for match and training days, body region, player role, nature, and activity at the time of injury. Results: Three teams with a total of 44 players (20.86 +/- 1.6 years) were included in the study. Injury incidence was 85.23 per 1000 player match days, 15.91 for match time -loss and 69.32 for non -time -loss, with 2.95% of players unavailable for match selection on any day. Fast bowlers had the highest injury incidence. Fielding caused 46.67% of all injuries. Injury incidence was higher in training than in matches. The wrist/hand had the highest injury incidence and caused the most match time -loss. Conclusion: This study provides valuable insights regarding the current injury rates in sub -elite female cricket players.		[Jacobs, Jolandi; Olivier, Benita] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Therapeut Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Jacobs, Jolandi] Cent Queensland Univ, Coll Hlth Sci, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Physiotherapy Dept, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Olivier, Benita] Oxford Brookes Univ, Oxford Inst Nursing, Oxford, England; [Brandt, Corlia] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Therapeut Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Jacobs, Jolandi] 554-700 Yaamba Rd, Norman Gardens, Qld 4701, Australia; [Jacobs, Jolandi] 554-700 Yaamba Rd, Norman Gardens, Qld 4701, Australia								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001238068500001	23	Article; Article		
J	Billings, Andrew C.								From gamification to personalization: sports media, Web 3.0 and the desire for the ultimate fan experience								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	2			273	278		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2023-0121			APR 22 2025	2025	PurposeThe purpose of this essay is to explore the ramifications of Web 3.0 on sports media and the desire for the ultimate fan experience.Design/methodology/approachThe essay explains how Web 3.0 will influence (1) the social TV experience, (2) the drive for zero latency in sports streaming, (3) the desire for exclusive sports memorabilia and experiences, (4) artificial intelligence-driven content and (5) the potential decentralization of certain elements within the sports media ecosphere.FindingsThe core fan experience will still be recognizable, but AI, VR, blockchain and other elements will be infused within it.Originality/valueRamifications on sports media scholarships are offered.		[Billings, Andrew C.] Univ Alabama, Dept Journalism & Creat Media, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487 USA; [Billings, Andrew C.] Univ Alabama, Dept Journalism & Creat Media, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001209321000001	19	Article; Article		
J	Song, Hyunseok; Byon, Kevin K.; Pedersen, Paul M.								Identifying online sports betting motivations associated with betting intention								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	4			705	731		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2023-0131			AUG 21 2024	2024	PurposeTo extend research into sport consumer behaviors related to online sports betting, this study is designed to identify and examine the relationship between online sports betting motivations and online sports betting intentions. By applying a push-pull framework from online sport consumption and gambling studies, nine motivations to engage in online sports betting were identified. These motivations were hypothesized to motivate online sports betting intentions.Design/methodology/approachA quota sampling technique based on the sports bettor demographics available in the American Gaming Association (AGA, 2019) and the Pew Research Center (2022) obtained a total of 550 completed surveys that met the inclusion and exclusion criteria. For data analyses, confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) and structural equation modeling (SEM) were used to examine the measurement model and the hypothesized model, respectively.FindingsThe results revealed that four motivations (i.e. monetary gain, excitement, convenience and negative technology-readiness) were related to online sports betting intention, while five motivations (i.e. sport fandom, positive technology-readiness, impulsivity, socialization and promotion) were not.Originality/valueThe results provide foundational theoretical knowledge of what motivates sports fans to participate in online sports betting. Furthermore, the findings assist practitioners in their allocation of resources by enhancing their understanding of online sports betting motivations.		[Song, Hyunseok] Univ West Georgia, Dept Sport Management Wellness & Phys Educ, Carrollton, GA USA; [Byon, Kevin K.; Pedersen, Paul M.] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Byon, Kevin K.] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001208127000001	76	Article; Article		
J	Murakawa, Yanka Aparecida Bandeira; Nunes, Ana Carla Lima; Franco, Katherinne Ferro Moura; de Queiroz, Jeffeson Hildo Medeiros; Bezerra, Marcio Almeida; de Oliveira, Rodrigo Ribeiro								Psychological factors show limited association with the severity of Achilles tendinopathy								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				118	124		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.04.004			MAY 2024	2024	Background: This study aimed to investigate the association between psychosocial factors and the severity of Achilles tendinopathy, along with exploring their potential link to the pain's duration. Methods: A cross-sectional study involving 111 individuals with Achilles tendon pain was conducted. Methods: A cross-sectional study involving 111 individuals with Achilles tendon pain was conducted. Various psychological factors were assessed using the Pain Catastrophizing Scale, Chronic Pain Self-Efficacy Scale (CPSS), Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia, and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD). Additionally, the severity of Achilles tendon pain was evaluated using the Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment-Achilles questionnaire (VISA-A-Br). Regression analyses were employed to determine the association of these psychosocial factors with pain severity and duration. Results: Self-efficacy for chronic pain showed a slight association with Achilles tendon pain severity (beta = 0.42 [95% CI: 0.06 to 0.16], p = 0.001), explaining only 19% of the dependent variable. The other variables, including anxiety, depression, pain catastrophizing, and fear of movement, did not exhibit significant associations. Conclusion: The study suggests that psychological factors demonstrate limited association with the severity of Achilles tendinopathy. While self-efficacy for chronic pain was weakly associated, its clinical relevance remains uncertain. Future research, particularly longitudinal studies, should explore the influence of psychosocial factors on treatment adherence and response to enhance management strategies for Achilles tendon pain.		[Murakawa, Yanka Aparecida Bandeira; de Queiroz, Jeffeson Hildo Medeiros; Bezerra, Marcio Almeida; de Oliveira, Rodrigo Ribeiro] Univ Fed Ceara, Tendon Res Grp, Master Program Phys Therapy & Functioning Phys The, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil; [Nunes, Ana Carla Lima] Univ Fed Ceara, Master Program Phys Therapy & Functioning Phys The, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil; [Franco, Katherinne Ferro Moura] Esporte Clube Bahia, Phys Therapy Dept, Dias Davila, BA, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Rodrigo Ribeiro] Univ Fed Ceara, Tendon Res Grp, Master Program Phys Therapy & Functioning Phys The, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001286202300001	36	Article; Article		
J	Mthombeni, Solomon; Coopoo, Yoga; Noorbhai, Habib								Factors enabling and hindering sporting success among South African elite athletes from historically disadvantaged areas: Through a coaching lens								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1415	1428		10.1177/17479541241245534			AUG 2024	2024	Sporting success among nations provides a sense of value and national pride. This paper evaluated the perceptions and experiences of national coaches on the enablers and hindrances of international sporting success by elite athletes from historically disadvantaged areas (HDA) using the SPLISS framework. A qualitative research study design was employed for this study. Ten internationally recognised coaches (46.7 +/- 12.9 years) volunteered for the study. Data was collected through semi-structured interviews. A thematic analysis was used to analyse data. Data was analysed using a computer software programme. Governance, organisation and sports policies, coach provision, local/international competition access, bursaries/scholarships and sport volunteerism were perceived as enablers, while lack of financial support, foundation level participation, school sport, athlete retention, sports facilities, reliable transport system and scientific support were perceived to be hindrances to sporting success. The findings highlight the need for policymakers to oversee and ensure a systemic governance approach with an integrated sports support system and effective policies, institutions and strategic planning, coupled with an adequate budget allocation in support of this system to facilitate elite sports success.		[Mthombeni, Solomon; Coopoo, Yoga; Noorbhai, Habib] Univ Johannesburg, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sport & Movement Studies, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Mthombeni, Solomon] Univ Johannesburg, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sport & Movement Studies, Johannesburg, South Africa								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001206512600001	45	Article; Article		
J	Epstein, Eli; Huse, Casey; Link, Meredith; Greenberg, Elliot								Reliability of a qualitative movement assessment tool during a single-leg triple hop landing								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				104	109		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.04.005			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: Assess inter- and intra-rater reliability of the Qualitative Analysis of Single Leg Squat (QASLS) during a single-leg triple hop landing in subjects following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Explore if differences in reliability existed between novice and experienced clinicians. Determine if QASLS scores differed between the surgical and nonsurgical limbs. Design: Repeated Measures. Participants: 20 subjects >= 6 months post-ACLR. Methods: Subjects were recorded performing a single-leg triple hop bilaterally. Videos were independently rated by five raters (2 physical therapists and 3 physical therapy students). Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was calculated to measure reliability of the QASLS on the surgical limb. Wilcoxon signed-rank test was utilized to assess if differences in QASLS scores existed between limbs. Results: The cumulative inter-rater reliability was moderate (ICC (2,1): 0.703) and the cumulative intra-rater reliability was good (ICC (3,1): 0.857). Little difference was found between experienced and novice raters for inter- and intra-rater reliability. There was no statistically significant difference in QASLS scores between limbs (P = 0.64). Conclusion: The QASLS tool offers moderate inter- and good intra-rater reliability for evaluating movement quality during a single-leg triple hop landing, irrespective of rater experience. Additionally, there was no observed difference in QASLS scores between surgical and nonsurgical limbs.		[Epstein, Eli; Huse, Casey; Link, Meredith; Greenberg, Elliot] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Greenberg, Elliot] Arcadia Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Glenside, PA USA; [Epstein, Eli] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001233557100001	18	Article; Article		
J	Nacier, Catherine M.; Vutescu, Emil Stefan; Bergen, Michael A.; Quinn, Matthew S.; Albright, J. Alex; Cruz Jr, Aristides I.								Social deprivation index affects time to MRI after knee injury in pediatric patients and is predicted by patient demographics								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	6			579	584		10.1080/00913847.2024.2342235			NOV 1 2024	2024	Objectives This study aims to characterize the association between the timing of MRI ordering and completion for pediatric knee injuries and Social Deprivation Index (SDI), which is a comprehensive, validated, county-level, measure of socioeconomic variation in health outcomes based upon combining geography, income, education, employment, housing, household characteristics, and access to transportation. Methods A retrospective chart review was completed of patients 21 years old and younger from our institution with a history of knee sports injury (ligamentous/soft tissue injury, structural abnormality, instability, inflammation) evaluated with MRI between 5/26/2017 and 12/28/2020. Patients were from three states and attended to by physicians associated with an urban academic institution. Patients were assigned SDI scores based on their ZIP code. Excluded from the study were patients with a non-knee related diagnosis (hip, foot, or ankle), patients from ZIP codes with unknown SDI, and non-sports medicine diagnoses (tumor, infection, fracture). Results In a multivariate regression analysis of 355 patients, increased SDI was independently associated with increased time from clinic visit to MRI order (p = 0.044) and from clinic visit to MRI completion (p = 0.047). Each 10-point increase in SDI (0-100) was associated with a delay of 7.2 days on average. SDI itself was found to be associated with a patient's race (p < 0.001), ethnicity (p < 0.001), and insurance category (p < 0.001). Conclusion Increased SDI is independently associated with longer time from clinic visit to knee MRI order and longer time from clinic visit to knee MRI completion in our pediatric population. Recognizing potential barriers to orthopedic care can help create the change necessary to provide the best possible care for all individual patients.		[Nacier, Catherine M.; Albright, J. Alex] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Unit A, 45 Sycamore St, Providence, RI 02909 USA; [Vutescu, Emil Stefan; Bergen, Michael A.; Quinn, Matthew S.; Cruz Jr, Aristides I.] Brown Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Providence, RI USA; [Albright, J. Alex] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Unit A, 45 Sycamore St, Providence, RI 02909 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001206902400001	43	Article; Article		
J	Kara, Firat; Gedik, Gulbin Ergin; Sahinoglu, Ertan								The associations of physical parameters with the Closed Kinetic Chain Upper Extremity Stability Test, the Upper Quarter Y Balance Test, and the Upper Limb Rotation Test in professional overhead athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67							10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.03.001			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: To investigate the associations of glenohumeral internal (IR) and external rotation (ER), horizontal adduction (HA), and thoracic spine rotation ranges of motion (ROM), isometric muscle strength of the shoulder rotators, and trunk muscle endurance with the Closed Kinetic Chain Upper Extremity Stability Test (CKCUEST), the Upper Quarter Y Balance Test (YBT-UQ), and the Upper Limb Rotation Test (ULRT) in overhead athletes. Design: Cross-sectional study. Settings: Laboratory. Participants: One hundred twenty-one athletes were enrolled. Main outcome measures: Independent variables were: IR, ER, HA, and thoracic spine rotation ROMs, isometric muscle strength of glenohumeral IR and ER muscles, and trunk muscle endurance. Dependent variables were: CKCUEST, YBT-UQ, ULRT. Results: IR ROM of the nondominant side was associated with the CKCUEST, the YBT-UQ, and the ULRT. IR muscle strength of the dominant side was associated with the CKCUEST and the ULRT. Trunk flexor and lateral endurance of the dominant side were associated with the CKCUEST and the YBT-UQ, respectively. Conclusions: Many of the physical parameters influencing scores on the CKCUEST and the YBT-UQ are different. Common parameters influence the CKCUEST and ULRT scores, yet more parameters influence the CKCUEST score. We suggest the combined use of the CKCUEST and the YBT-UQ in overhead athletes.		[Kara, Firat] Mugla Fit Plus, Mugla, Turkiye; [Gedik, Gulbin Ergin] Izmir Bakircay Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Izmir, Turkiye; [Sahinoglu, Ertan] Mavi Physiotherapy, Izmir, Turkiye; [Sahinoglu, Ertan] Mavi Physiotherapy, Izmir, Turkiye								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001233874200001	40	Article; Article		
J	Marais, Jandre V.; van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Schwellnus, Martin P.; Jordaan, Esme; Boer, Pieter								Risk factors associated with a history of iliotibial band syndrome (hITBS) in distance runners: a cross-sectional study in 76 654 race entrants - a SAFER XXXIII study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	6			568	578		10.1080/00913847.2024.2341607			NOV 1 2024	2024	Background: Despite the numerous health benefits of distance running, it is also associated with the development of 'gradual onset running-related injuries' (GORRIs) one of which is Iliotibial Band Syndrome (ITBS). Novel risk factors associated with a history of ITBS (hITBS) have not been described in a large cohort of distance runners. Objective: To identify risk factors associated with hITBS in distance runners. Design: Descriptive cross-sectional study. Setting21.1 km and 56 km Two Oceans Marathon races (2012-2015). Participants106 743 race entrants completed the online pre-race medical screening questionnaire. A total of 1 314 runners confirmed an accurate hITBS diagnosis. Methods: Selected risk factors associated with hITBS explored included: demographics (race distance, sex, age groups), training/running variables, history of existing chronic diseases (including a composite chronic disease score) and history of any allergy. Prevalence (%) and prevalence ratios (PR; 95% CI) are reported (uni- & multiple regression analyzes). Results1.63% entrants reported hITBS in a 12-month period. There was a higher (p < 0.0001) prevalence of hITBS in the longer race distance entrants (56 km), females, younger entrants, fewer years of recreational running (PR = 1.07; p = 0.0009) and faster average running speed (PR = 1.02; p = 0.0066). When adjusted for race distance, sex, age groups, a higher chronic disease composite score (PR = 2.38 times increased risk for every two additional chronic diseases; p < 0.0001) and a history of allergies (PR = 1.9; p < 0.0001) were independent risk factors associated with hITBS. Conclusion: Apart from female sex, younger age, fewer years of running and slower running speed, two novel independent risk factors associated with hITBS in distance runners are an increased number of chronic diseases and a history of allergies. Identifying athletes at higher risk for ITBS can guide healthcare professionals in their prevention and rehabilitation efforts.		[Marais, Jandre V.; van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Boer, Pieter] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [Marais, Jandre V.; Schwellnus, Martin P.] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Fac Hlth Sci, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin P.] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport & Exercise Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin P.] Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] MRC, Biostat Res Unit, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] Univ Western Cape, Stat & Populat Studies Dept, Cape Town, South Africa; [Boer, Pieter] Cape Peninsula Univ Technol, Dept Human Movement Sci, Wellington, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin P.] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Fac Hlth Sci, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001204595700001	81	Article; Article		
J	van Heeswijk, Kay; Janssen, Loes; Heijmans, Margot Helena; Scheltinga, Marc Reinoud Maria								Ultrasound guided compressibility of the lower leg anterior tibial muscle compartment: a feasibility study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	6			561	567		10.1080/00913847.2024.2340421			NOV 1 2024	2024	ObjectivesSome young individuals participating in sports activities may encounter lower leg muscle pain and tightness, potentially indicating chronic exertional compartment syndrome (CECS). While muscle pressure measurement is typically recommended for diagnosis, it is invasive and associated with low sensitivity and specificity. Thus, there is a need for novel diagnostic approaches.MethodsThis feasibility study aims to assess whether an ultrasound-guided technique can effectively measure the compressibility of the anterior tibial muscle compartment, focusing on optimal leg positioning and identifying reliable external and internal anatomical landmarks. The compressibility of the anterior tibial muscle compartment was evaluated using ultrasound images obtained at 10 mmHg and 80 mmHg external pressure, with the drop in compartment thickness used to calculate the compressibility ratio. Measurements were conducted in various leg positions and utilizing different external and internal landmarks.ResultsStudies in healthy volunteers showed that knee and heel support positioning, measuring at the leg's widest circumference, and using the interosseous membrane as an internal landmark yielded the lowest measurement variability with an intra class correlation of .977 (.764-1.000; 95%-confidence interval).ConclusionThese findings suggest that ultrasound-guided techniques can feasibly determine the compressibility ratio of the anterior tibial muscle compartment, providing valuable insights for standardized protocols in future studies on suspected cases of chronic exertional compartment syndrome.		[van Heeswijk, Kay; Janssen, Loes; Heijmans, Margot Helena; Scheltinga, Marc Reinoud Maria] Maxima Med Ctr, Dept Surg, Run 2600,POB 7777, NL-5500 MB Veldhoven, Netherlands; [van Heeswijk, Kay] Maxima Med Ctr, Dept Surg, Run 2600,POB 7777, NL-5500 MB Veldhoven, Netherlands								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001205000000001	19	Article; Article		
J	Dane, Kathryn; West, Stephen W.; Hendricks, Sharief; Stodter, Anna; Yeomans, Caithriona; van Dyk, Nicol; Griffin, Steffan; Wilson, Fiona								A global survey exploring tackle training knowledge, attitudes and practices of women's rugby union coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1429	1442		10.1177/17479541241243180			AUG 2024	2024	The coaching and performance context in women's rugby is not well understood, despite growing popularity worldwide. The aim of this study was to describe the knowledge, attitudes and tackle training practices of women's rugby coaches in relation to tackle safety and performance. A globally distributed online survey exploring coaches' knowledge, attitudes and practices towards tackling women's rugby was completed by 357 coaches (mean age 41 +/- 0.6 years) from 58 countries. The cross-sectional survey was distributed from March 2023 to June 2023. Survey development was guided by the Health Action Process Approach and informed by coaching experts, research evidence synthesis, and guidelines for international tackle safety programmes. Coaches believed that the risk of tackle injury in women's rugby is high and that proper tackle technique for safety is very important. More than 75% of coaches had never completed a tackle-specific training course, with only 39% aware of the availability of such courses. Time spent on controlled-contact and full-contact activities varied from 0 to 40+ min per week, averaging 10-20 min for both types of training. Barriers to the effectiveness of tackle training related to sociocultural factors, coach knowledge gaps, training environments, and player training considerations. Coach education, improved infrastructures, and physical development were ranked the highest priorities for improving tackle safety and performance. These findings inform future implementation strategies for tackle safety and performance in the context of women's rugby, highlighting the need to involve coaches in providing practical solutions, and the role of education and institutional/organisational support in facilitating such improvements.		[Dane, Kathryn; Wilson, Fiona] Trinity Coll Dublin, Sch Med, Discipline Physiotherapy, Dublin, Ireland; [West, Stephen W.] Univ Bath, Ctr Hlth Injury & Illness Prevent Sport, Bath, England; [West, Stephen W.] Univ Bath, UK Collaborating Ctr Illness & Injury Prevent Spor, Bath, England; [West, Stephen W.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Lifestyle & Sport Res Ctr, Dept Human Biol,Div Physiol Sci & Hlth through Phy, Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief; Stodter, Anna] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Stodter, Anna] Leeds Beckett Univ, Ctr Sport Coaching, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Yeomans, Caithriona] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Yeomans, Caithriona; van Dyk, Nicol] Irish Rugby Football Union, High Performance Unit, Dublin, Ireland; [van Dyk, Nicol] Univ Pretoria, Sect Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [van Dyk, Nicol] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sport Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Griffin, Steffan] Univ Edinburgh, Ctr Sport & Exercise, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Griffin, Steffan] Rugby Football Union, Med Serv, London, England; [Dane, Kathryn] Trinity Coll Dublin, Sch Med, Discipline Physiotherapy, Dublin, Ireland								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001204884600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Ordeix, Lidia; Alcaraz, Saul; Belza, Haizea; Viladrich, Carme								Cultural adaptation of the Assessment of Coach Emotions to the Spanish sports context (ACE-E)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1395	1405		10.1177/17479541241247005			AUG 2024	2024	Coaches' emotional expression significantly influences sport environments and is mediated by the social and cultural construction of emotions. Therefore, this study aims to culturally adapt the Assessment of Coach Emotions for the Spanish sports context (ACE-E), provide evidence of its validity and reliability, and propose a suitable model for adapting observation instruments. The study involved coaches, sports psychologists, experts who study emotions, linguists, and translators. It was conducted in three phases. First, a literature review was conducted, and four coaches were interviewed. Secondly, the necessary linguistic and content changes were implemented. Finally, the ACE-E was tested by coding and analyzing 500 min of recordings of eight coaches' performance and evaluated for reliability, usefulness, and feasibility. The results show that ACE-E receives the same support for validity and reliability as the original instrument in the English language, demonstrating the effectiveness of its cultural adaptation for assessing the emotional expression of Spanish coaches.		[Ordeix, Lidia; Viladrich, Carme] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Psicobiol & Metodol Ciencies Salut, Fac Psicol, Bellaterra, Spain; [Ordeix, Lidia; Alcaraz, Saul; Viladrich, Carme] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Inst Recerca Esport, Bellaterra, Spain; [Alcaraz, Saul] Univ Lleida, Inst Nacl Educ Fis Catalunya, Lleida, Spain; [Belza, Haizea] Univ Basque Country, Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea, Dept Ciencias Educ, Leioa, Spain; [Ordeix, Lidia] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Fac Psicol, Dept Psicobiol & Metodol Cienciesde Salut, Carrer Fortuna S-N, Bellaterra 08193, Spain; [Ordeix, Lidia] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Inst Recerca Esport, Bellaterra, Spain; [Ordeix, Lidia] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Fac Psicol, Dept Psicobiol & Metodol Cienciesde Salut, Carrer Fortuna S-N, Bellaterra 08193, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001204882900001	57	Article; Article		
J	Challis, John H.								The relationship between ball mass and throw distance: Implications for coaching practice								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			1940	1949		10.1177/17479541241247308			OCT 2024	2024	In training for many sports, balls of different masses are thrown. This study examined how ball mass influences distance thrown. Based on geometric scaling principles a relationship was derived between ball mass and throw distance: throw distance was inversely proportional to ball mass. This relationship was tested in two ways. The first approach was using athlete shot put throw distances with different shot masses, and hammer throws performed with different mass hammers. These experimental data were better represented by the non-linear relationship, derived from geometric scaling principles, than assuming a simple linear relationship. The second approach was to use a simulation model to predict throw distance for balls of different masses. The model contained realistic segmental inertial properties, activation dynamics, moment-joint angle properties, and moment-joint angular velocity properties. The non-linear relationship provided a better fit to the results of the simulations compared with a linear model. The experimental and modeling results support the theoretical relationship derived between distance thrown and ball mass. The relationship has utility for coaches monitoring and planning the training of athletes which incorporates throwing different mass balls.		[Challis, John H.] Penn State Univ, Biomech Lab, 39 Recreat Bldg, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [Challis, John H.] Penn State Univ, Biomech Lab, 39 Recreat Bldg, University Pk, PA 16802 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001204870100001	38	Article; Article		
J	Choi, Wonjun; Jang, Wooyoung (William); Song, Hyunseok; Kim, Min Jung; Lee, Wonju; Byon, Kevin K.								Esports for development? Exploring esports player profiles and their development and well-being outcomes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	3			684	704		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2023-0160			JUL 9 2024	2024	PurposeThis study aimed to identify subgroups of esports players based on their gaming behavior patterns across game genres and compare self-efficacy, social efficacy, loneliness and three dimensions of quality of life between these subgroups.Design/methodology/approach324 participants were recruited from prolific academic to complete an online survey. We employed latent profile analysis (LPA) to identify subgroups of esports players based on their behavioral patterns across genres. Additionally, a one-way multivariate analysis of covariance (MANCOVA) was conducted to test the association between cluster memberships and development and well-being outcomes, controlling for age and gender as covariates.FindingsLPA analysis identified five clusters (two single-genre gamer groups, two multigenre gamer groups and one all-genre gamer group). Univariate analyses indicated the significant effect of the clusters on social efficacy, psychological health and social health. Pairwise comparisons highlighted the salience of the physical enactment-plus-sport simulation genre group in these outcomes.Originality/valueThis study contributes to the understanding of the development and well-being benefits experienced by various esports consumers, as well as the role of specific gameplay in facilitating targeted outcomes among these consumer groups.		[Choi, Wonjun] Univ New Hampshire, Dept Kinesiol, Durham, NH 03824 USA; [Jang, Wooyoung (William); Song, Hyunseok] Univ West Georgia, Dept Sport Management Wellness & Phys Educ, Carrollton, GA USA; [Kim, Min Jung] McPherson Coll, Dept Hlth & Sport Studies, Mcpherson, KS USA; Muskingum Univ, Dept Econ Accounting & Business, New Concord, OH USA; Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Choi, Wonjun] Univ New Hampshire, Dept Kinesiol, Durham, NH 03824 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001200412600001	66	Article; Article		
J	Lerch, Benjamin G.; Slowik, Jonathan S.; Fleisig, Glenn S.; Richardson, R. Tyler								Comparison of glenohumeral and scapulothoracic kinematics between fastballs and curveballs during baseball pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3408	3420		10.1080/14763141.2024.2336950			NOV 2 2025	2025	Shoulder injuries are common in baseball pitchers and primarily involve the glenohumeral joint. Past analyses have examined shoulder biomechanics during different pitch types simply as the motion of the upper arm relative to the thorax. In this study, glenohumeral and scapulothoracic kinematics were compared between fastballs and curveballs at key timepoints throughout a pitch. Upper extremity kinematics of thirteen collegiate pitchers were collected during fastball and curveball pitches with motion capture. A linear model approach was utilised to estimate scapular kinematics based on measurable humerothoracic motion. Glenohumeral kinematics were computed from the scapular and humeral motion data. Comparisons of scapulothoracic and glenohumeral kinematic variables at times of maximum glenohumeral external rotation, ball release, and maximum glenohumeral internal rotation between pitch types were made using paired t-tests with Benjamini-Hochberg corrections. There were no significant differences in glenohumeral kinematics. Fastballs elicited significantly less scapulothoracic internal rotation and more posterior tilt at maximum glenohumeral external rotation. Fastballs produced significantly less scapulothoracic internal rotation and anterior tilt at maximum glenohumeral internal rotation. This study provides further evidence that risk of injury to the glenohumeral joint may be consistent between fastballs and curveballs and offers insights into subtle differences in scapular kinematics between pitch types.		[Lerch, Benjamin G.; Richardson, R. Tyler] Penn State Univ Harrisburg, Sch Behav Sci & Educ, Middletown, PA 17057 USA; [Slowik, Jonathan S.; Fleisig, Glenn S.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Biomech Res, Birmingham, AL USA; [Richardson, R. Tyler] Penn State Univ Harrisburg, Sch Behav Sci & Educ, Middletown, PA 17057 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001203833700001	51	Article; Article		
J	Ungureanu, Alexandru Nicolae; Lupo, Corrado; Chiarello, Francesco; Brustio, Paolo Riccardo								Correlating technical and tactical, and kinematic elements: An in-depth analysis of game-related metrics and running activities in sub-elite senior male rugby union players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2110	2118		10.1177/17479541241242951			OCT 2024	2024	To comprehend the complexity of rugby union performance, it is crucial to correlate technical and tactical, and kinematic elements specifically for playing roles. Hence, this study investigated the relationship between game-related metrics and running activities in sub-elite senior males. Technical and tactical performance and running activity of 36 sub-elite senior players (age mean = 25 years; total performances = 200) were assessed in relation to 17 key performance indicators (KPIs). A series of general linear mixed models were performed to evaluate the relationship between KPIs according to roles (backs, forwards and scrum halves), including subjects and games as random effect. The main finding was that the tactical context relates distinctly running activities, and this effect varies between backs and forwards. Tackling mainly involves impacts and deceleration, whereas carrying the ball is associated with impacts and accelerations. Furthermore, the percentage of missed tackles is related to higher occurrences of acceleration events. These findings offer a more profound understanding of the physiological requirements in sub-elite rugby performance, especially given the limited evidence on the interaction between technical and tactical performance and running activities in sub-elite rugby union games. As a result, coaches and physical practitioners should design and execute diverse training sessions that consider both the tactical context and the players' positions.		[Ungureanu, Alexandru Nicolae; Lupo, Corrado; Chiarello, Francesco; Brustio, Paolo Riccardo] Univ Turin, NeuroMuscularFunct Res Grp, Turin, Italy; [Ungureanu, Alexandru Nicolae; Lupo, Corrado] Univ Turin, Dept Med Sci, Turin, Italy; [Brustio, Paolo Riccardo] Univ Turin, Dept Clin & Biol Sci, Turin, Italy; [Lupo, Corrado] Univ Turin, NeuroMuscularFunct Res Grp, Turin, Italy								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001201452500001	53	Article; Article		
J	Judge, Lawrence W.; Vasiloff, Olivia; Swim, Nicholas; Smith, Adam; Fox, Brian; Craig, Bruce; Bellar, David								An examination of pre-activity and post-activity training practices of National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I and Division III baseball coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1459	1468		10.1177/17479541241244937			AUG 2024	2024	Baseball includes complex multi-joint and multi-planar activities involving a majority of the musculature of the body. Research pertaining to training practices including pre-activity and post-activity stretching continues to evolve along with related sport science recommendations. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to assess the pre-activity and post-activity warm-up, stretching, and training practices of National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I and Division III baseball coaches. A total of 686 questionnaires were distributed via email to head collegiate baseball coaches from NCAA Division I and III universities. The questionnaire was designed to gather demographic, professional, and educational information, as well as specific pre-activity and post-activity stretching usage by the coaches. The responses were examined by computing frequency counts and means where applicable. For the statistical analysis, both SPSS version 27.0 and JMP version 13.0 software packages were utilized. Pearson's Chi-squared tests were run where applicable. Results indicated just over 77% of coaches in the present study affirmed the importance of a pre-activity dynamic warmup. When comparing coaching specific certification to pre-activity flexibility practices, it is clear not all coaches comply with suggested pre-activity flexibility recommendations. This study indicates it is important for baseball coaches to re-evaluate their own practices, perhaps cross-checking them with practices of their peers and staying current with ongoing research.		[Judge, Lawrence W.; Vasiloff, Olivia; Smith, Adam; Fox, Brian; Craig, Bruce] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Swim, Nicholas] Univ Maine, Business Sch, Orono, ME USA; [Bellar, David] Univ West Florida, Usha Kundu MD Coll Hlth, Pensacola, FL USA; [Judge, Lawrence W.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001201449400001	44	Article; Article		
J	Feros, Simon A.; Gerhardy, Michael H.; Fyfe, Jackson J.; Dwyer, Dan B.								The kinematic relationships of ball release speed in elite female cricket pace bowlers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2144	2151		10.1177/17479541241242910			OCT 2024	2024	The ability of a pace bowler to deliver the cricket ball at faster speeds is linked with improved match performance as they require less deliveries to take a wicket and concede less runs per wicket taken. The aim of this study was to explore the relationship between ball release speed and selected pace bowling kinematics in 19 elite female pace bowlers. Participants bowled 18 match-intensity deliveries indoors from a full run-up. Peak ball release speed and three-dimensional pace bowling kinematic data were extracted from six deliveries that met specific selection criteria. Linear and non-linear relationships were assessed between ball release speed and selected pace bowling kinematics. Ball release speed was associated linearly with pelvis orientation at back foot contact (r(2 )= 0.34, p = 0.048) and non-linearly with thoraco-pelvic lateral flexion at front foot flat (r(2 )= 0.69, p < 0.001). Compared to their slower counterparts, faster elite female pace bowlers were more side-on at back foot contact and more upright in the frontal plane at front foot flat. A side-on pelvis orientation at back foot landing is likely to permit greater whole-body angular momentum in the transverse plane of motion. A more upright trunk orientation at front foot flat may be indicative of delayed onset of trunk flexion and representative of optimal segmental sequencing to maximise ball release speed. This knowledge is likely to be useful in the coaching and development of female pace bowlers for the purposes of enhancing ball release speed and therefore match performance.		[Feros, Simon A.; Gerhardy, Michael H.; Dwyer, Dan B.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res CSR, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Australia; [Fyfe, Jackson J.] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr IPAN, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Australia; [Feros, Simon A.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res CSR, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, 75 Pigdons Rd, Geelong, Vic 3216, Australia; [Feros, Simon A.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res CSR, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, 75 Pigdons Rd, Geelong, Vic 3216, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001202012300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Clement, J.; Croteau, F.; Gagnon, M.; Cros, S.								Automatic detection of skate strokes in short-track speed skating using one single IMU: validation of a new method								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3710	3721		10.1080/14763141.2024.2331174			DEC 1 2024	2024	Greater impulse is a key performance indicator of success in short track speed skating. The main objective of this study was to develop a method to measure skating strokes using a single IMU. Eight elite or world-class speed skaters had one IMU placed against their skin on the lower back, and a camera setup was positioned to capture the test. A maximal speed trial was then executed by each participant, and the data were analysed to estimate agreement between the camera and IMU estimates of skate stroke events. Inter-evaluator reliability was assessed on a dataset of 22 athletes performing speed trials as well. The algorithm detected 100% of the strokes identified on the video capture system with a root mean square error of 0.06s. Bland-Altman analysis showed a bias of 0.03s between the two methods, which corresponds to the frame rate of the camera. The inter-evaluator reliability yielded an intra-class correlation of 1.00 (ICC3,1) from a dataset of 7089 strokes. This study provides an example of on-ice evaluation of speed skating strokes using a single IMU. This equipment is less expensive than that employed by previous authors and can be implemented in training situations with low invasiveness.		[Clement, J.] Ecole technol Super, Lab innovat ouverte technol St, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Clement, J.; Croteau, F.] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, Sci sport, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Croteau, F.] McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Clement, J.; Gagnon, M.; Cros, S.] Speed skating Canada, Short Track Teams, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Clement, J.] Ecole technol Super, Lab innovat ouverte technol St, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Clement, J.] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, Sci sport, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Clement, J.] Speed skating Canada, Short Track Teams, Montreal, PQ, Canada								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001200600000001	28	Article; Article		
J	O'Reilly, Norm; Paras, Caroline; Gierc, Madelaine; Lithopoulos, Alexander; Banerjee, Ananya; Ferguson, Leah; Lee, Eun-Young; Rhodes, Ryan E.; Tremblay, Mark S.; Vanderloo, Leigh; Faulkner, Guy								Nostalgia-based marketing campaigns and sport participation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	3			664	683		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2023-0141			JUL 9 2024	2024	PurposeFramed by nostalgia marketing, this research draws upon lessons from ParticipACTION, a Canadian non-profit health promotion organization, to examine one of their most well-known campaigns, Body Break with ParticipACTION, in order to assess the potential role for nostalgia-based marketing campaigns in sport participation across generational cohorts.Design/methodology/approachExploratory sequential mixed methods involving two studies were completed on behalf of ParticipACTION, with the authors developing the research instruments and the collection of the data undertaken by research agencies. Study 1 was the secondary analysis of qualitative data from five focus groups with different demographic compositions that followed a common question guide. Study 2 was a secondary data analysis of a pan-Canadian online survey with a sample (n = 1,475) representative of the overall adult population that assessed awareness of, and attitudes toward, ParticipACTION, Body Break, physical activity and sport participation. Path analysis tested a proposed model that was based on previous research on attitudes, brand and loyalty. Further, multi-group path analyses were conducted to compare younger generations with older ones.FindingsThe results provide direction and understanding of the importance of nostalgia in marketing sport participation programs across generational cohorts. For instance, in the four parent-adult focus groups, unaided references as well as frequent and detailed comments regarding Body Break were observed. Similarly, Millennials reported that Body Break was memorable, Canadian and nostalgic, with a mix of positive and negative comments. The importance of nostalgia was supported sequentially via results from the national survey. For example, while 54.1% of the 40-54 age-group associated ParticipACTION positively with Body Break, so did 49.8% of the 25-39-year age group, most of whom were not born when the promotion ran. Further, brand resonance was found to explain 4% more variance in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA), the proxy for sport participation, for younger people compared to older people.Practical implicationsResults provide direction to brands, properties and agencies around the use of nostalgia in sport marketing campaigns and sponsorship efforts. For brands seeking to sponsor sport properties to alter their image with potential consumers in a new market, associating with a sport property that many view as nostalgic could improve the impact of the campaign. On the sport property side, event managers and marketers should both identify existing assets that members or fans are nostalgic about, as well as consider building nostalgia into current and new properties they develop.Originality/valueThis research is valuable to the sport marketing and sponsorship literature through several contributions. First, the use of nostalgia marketing, and nostalgia in general, is novel in the sport marketing and sponsorship literature, with future research in nostalgia and sponsorship recommended. Second, the potential to adopt or adapt Body Break to other sport participation and physical activity properties is empirically supported. Finally, the finding that very effective promotions can have a long-lasting effect, both on those who experienced the campaigns as well as younger populations who only heard about it, is notable.		[O'Reilly, Norm; Paras, Caroline] Univ Maine, Grad Sch Business, Orono, ME 04469 USA; [Gierc, Madelaine; Faulkner, Guy] Univ British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Lithopoulos, Alexander] Univ Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Banerjee, Ananya] McGill Univ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Ferguson, Leah] Univ Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada; [Lee, Eun-Young] Queens Univ, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Rhodes, Ryan E.] Univ Victoria, Dept Phys Educ, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Tremblay, Mark S.] Univ Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Tremblay, Mark S.] Childrens Hosp Eastern Ontario Res Inst, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Vanderloo, Leigh] ParticipACTION Canada, Toronto, ON, Canada; [O'Reilly, Norm] Univ Maine, Grad Sch Business, Orono, ME 04469 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001197304400001	58	Article; Article		
J	Murphy, Myles C.; Green, Brady; Amundarain, Igor Sancho; de Vos, Robert -Jan; Rio, Ebonie K.								Are we asking the right questions to people with Achilles tendinopathy? The best questions to distinguish mild versus severe disability to improve your clinical management								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				54	60		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.03.005			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: Determine the capacity of individual items on the Tendinopathy Severity Assessment - Achilles (TENDINS-A), Foot and Ankle Outcome Score (FAOS), and Victorian Institute of Sports Assessment - Achilles (VISA-A) to differentiate patients with mild and severe tendon-related disability in order to provide clinicians the best questions when they are consulting patients with Achilles tendinopathy. Design: Cross-sectional. Participants: Seventy participants with Achilles tendinopathy (61.4% mid-portion only, 31.4% insertional only, 7.2% both). Outcome measures: The discrimination index was determined for each TENDINS-A, FAOS, and VISA-A item to determine if items could discriminate between mild and severe disability. A Guttman analysis for polytomous items was conducted. Results: All 62 tems from the TENDINS-A, FAOS, and VISA-A were ranked with the best items relating to pain with physical tendon loading, time for pain to settle following aggravating activities and time for the tendon to 'warm-up' following inactivity. Conclusions: Pain with loading the Achilles tendon, time for pain to settle following aggravating activity, as well as time taken for the tendon symptoms to subside after prolonged sitting or sleeping are the best questions indicative of the severity of disability in patients with Achilles tendinopathy. These questions can assist clinicians with assessing baseline severity and monitoring treatment response.		[Murphy, Myles C.] Edith Cowan Univ, Nutr & Hlth Innovat Res Inst, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Murphy, Myles C.; Green, Brady] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Green, Brady] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Amundarain, Igor Sancho] Univ Deusto, Fac Hlth Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, Deusto Phys TherapIker Grp, Donostia San Sebastian, Spain; [de Vos, Robert -Jan] Erasmus MC Univ Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Med, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Rio, Ebonie K.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Rio, Ebonie K.] Australian Ballet, Southbank, Vic, Australia; [Rio, Ebonie K.] Victorian Inst Sport, Albert Pk, Vic, Australia; [Murphy, Myles C.] Edith Cowan Univ, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Murphy, Myles C.] Edith Cowan Univ, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA, Australia								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001227309800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Aquino, Michele J.; Gershenson, Seth								Expecting the Expected? Documenting Nostalgia Effects on Baseball Card Prices								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	6			683	706		10.1177/15270025241245638			AUG 2024	2024	Identifying anomalies, or empirical facts that contradict theoretical predictions, is a common form of proof by contradiction in economics and finance. We identify an apparent pricing anomaly in the market for trading cards: large and persistent death effects of about 20% are observed following the death of legendary baseball players. Rational investors should anticipate each player's eventual death, so these results suggest that profit opportunities are being left on the table. The arguably causal estimates come from interrupted time series models that adjust flexibly for time pre- and post-death and the time of sale using high-frequency sales data. The effect is largest in the days immediately following the death, but prices remain elevated for at least 60 days. Generally, our findings reaffirm the presence of a causal "nostalgia effect" of celebrity deaths on consumer demand for collectibles and products associated with the celebrity.		[Aquino, Michele J.; Gershenson, Seth] Amer Univ, Sch Publ Affairs, Washington, DC USA; [Gershenson, Seth] IZA Inst Lab Econ, Bonn, Germany; [Gershenson, Seth] Amer Univ, Sch Publ Affairs, 4400 Massachusetts Ave NW, Washington, DC 20016 USA; [Gershenson, Seth] Amer Univ, Sch Publ Affairs, 4400 Massachusetts Ave NW, Washington, DC 20016 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001198760100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Grant, Matthew A.; Schempp, Paul G.; Tobin Grant, J.								Adaptations within female US Olympic swimming medalists' competition-day routines: A mixed-methods approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2173	2189		10.1177/17479541241238207			OCT 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to examine adaptations within competition day routines of female US Olympic medalists in differently formatted competitions in order to locate changes based on the organizations of the swimming competitions and differentiate the inflexible from the flexible parts of the routines. A purposeful sample of six elite swimmers participated in two 1-hour interviews with an observation at a national-level competition. A mixed-methods analysis protocol helped locate adaptions within the routine. Four results of note were reported. First, adaptations outside venue depended on format and/or individual schedule; adaptations inside the venue were in response to how they felt and their surroundings. Second, participants adapted their competition-day routines at different levels, i.e., segment and behavior levels, depending on being outside or inside the venue, respectively. Third, the competition-day routine of the participants followed similar competition-day routine segments at the venue that matched in scope and sequence for both the prelims and finals sessions. Fourth, once at the venue, adaptation of behaviors changed in order to accomplish the necessary active or passive preparations without changing the scope, sequence and duration of the segments. These findings deepen the understanding of competition-day routines by locating flexible and inflexible parts of the routines and showing greater variance when athletes adapt their routines.		[Grant, Matthew A.] Valdosta State Univ, Dept Teacher Educ, PE Complex 1113, Valdosta, GA 31698 USA; [Schempp, Paul G.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA USA; [Tobin Grant, J.] Southern Illinois Univ, Dept Anthropol Polit Sci & Sociol, Carbondale, IL USA; [Grant, Matthew A.] Valdosta State Univ, Dept Teacher Educ, PE Complex 1113, Valdosta, GA 31698 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001196065500001	25	Article; Article		
J	Machado, Guilherme; Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto; Pastor-Vicedo, Juan Carlos; Teoldo, Israel								Mapping talent pathways: A comparative study of developmental activities and practice structure in Brazilian and Spanish U-18 elite youth male soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2006	2015		10.1177/17479541241241487			OCT 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was threefold: (1) to compare the engagement in various types and amounts of soccer activities during childhood and adolescence between Brazilian and Spanish elite youth soccer players; (2) to test what talent development pathway characterizes youth development in elite soccer in Brazil and Spain and (3) to compare the practice structure between elite youth soccer in Brazil and Spain. Participants were 131 U-18 elite male soccer players from Brazil (n = 68) and Spain (n = 63) competing in the national league. The Participant History Questionnaire was used to measure the soccer activities undertaken by players. Developmental activities were analyzed for two age periods: childhood (6-12 y/o) and early adolescence (13-15 y/o). In Spain, players started their involvement in practice and competition in soccer earlier compared to Brazilian players (p < .05). Brazilian players were more involved in structured activities, such as practice in soccer and futsal, and participated in a greater number of sports in childhood and early adolescence (p < .05). We found a very similar percentual practice structure (individual, pair, drills, group tactics and collective tactics activities) between Spain and Brazil, although Brazilian players accumulated a greater practice volume. It is concluded that Spanish and Brazilian U-18 elite youth male soccer players were differentiated by their milestones in soccer and their engagement in practice activities during childhood and early adolescence. Talent development pathway of male soccer players in Spain was characterized by the early engagement pathway, while the Brazilian system was characterized by the specialized sampling model.		[Machado, Guilherme; Teoldo, Israel] Univ Fed Vicosa, Ctr Res & Studies Soccer NUPEF, Dept Phys Educ, Vicosa, Brazil; [Machado, Guilherme; Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto; Pastor-Vicedo, Juan Carlos] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Educ, EDAF Res Grp, Albacete, Spain; [Machado, Guilherme] Paulista Football Federat FPF, Dept Athletes Integrat & Dev, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Machado, Guilherme] Univ Fed Vicosa Campus Vicosa, Dept Phys Educ, Ave PH Rolfs,S-N Campus Univ, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Machado, Guilherme] Univ Fed Vicosa Campus Vicosa, Dept Phys Educ, Ave PH Rolfs,S-N Campus Univ, Vicosa, MG, Brazil								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001196202700001	51	Article; Article		
J	van den Hoek, Daniel J.; Mallard, Alistair; Garrett, Joel M.; Beaumont, Patrick L.; Howells, Robert J.; Spathis, Jemima G.; Pearson, Joshua; Latella, Christopher								Powerlifting participation and engagement across all ages: A retrospective, longitudinal, population analysis with comparison to community strength norms								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2199	2209		10.1177/17479541241244481			OCT 2024	2024	Background In Australia, one-third of people >= 15 years perform regular resistance training and 90% of those do not meet current health guidelines. All age groups should engage in regular resistance exercise, to maintain strength and function.Objectives To identify trends in powerlifting competition participation in Australia by sex and age group from 1968 to 2022, and to compare the strength of powerlifting competitors to population age- and sex-based normative values.Method The number of unique participants and total competition entries for each year were analysed using Australian powerlifting competition data. Subdomains of age and sex were investigated, and mean +/- SD, frequency, range, and trend analyses reported. United Nations age classifications were used to identify age trends. Comparisons to population strength norms were explored descriptively.Results We included 21,514 individual competitors from 1942 powerlifting competitions between 1968 and 2022. Exponential growth was seen in competition entries from 115 in 1981, to 759 in 1994, 1014 in 2011, and to 6803 in 2022, (R2 = 0.86). At first participation 18-25-year olds (51.1%) followed by >= 36 years (16%) were most represented. Strength comparison to available population norms demonstrates superior upper- (bench press [most competitors above 70th percentile) and lower-body (squat [majority rated 'excellent') strength.Conclusions Superior strength levels of powerlifters further the evidence base for this sport as an effective way to develop muscular strength, with low injury. We advocate for public health promotion and additional support for powerlifting as an underutilised community health tool.		[van den Hoek, Daniel J.; Beaumont, Patrick L.; Howells, Robert J.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth, 1 Moreton Pde, Petrie, Qld, Australia; [Mallard, Alistair] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Garrett, Joel M.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Southport, Qld, Australia; [Spathis, Jemima G.; Pearson, Joshua] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Banyo, Qld, Australia; [Latella, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Latella, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Neurophysiol Res Lab, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [van den Hoek, Daniel J.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth, 1 Moreton Pde, Petrie, Qld, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001196093800001	38	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Hernandez, David								Flywheel Eccentric Training: How to Effectively Generate Eccentric Overload								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	2			234	250		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000795			APR 2024	2024	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. Eccentric resistance training has been shown to elicit beneficial effects on performance and injury prevention in sports because of its specific muscular and neural adaptations. Within the different methods used to generate eccentric overload, flywheel eccentric training has gained interest in recent years because of its advantages over other methods such as its portability, the ample exercise variety it allows and its accommodated resistance. Only a limited number of studies that use flywheel devices provide enough evidence to support the presence of eccentric overload. There is limited guidance on the practical implementation of flywheel eccentric training in the current literature. In this article, we provide literature to support the use of flywheel eccentric training and present practical guidelines to develop exercises that allow eccentric overload.See Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A380 for a video abstract of this article.		[Martinez-Hernandez, David] Univ Salford, Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, England; [Martinez-Hernandez, David] Tottenham Hotspur Women Football Club, Med & Sports Sci Dept, London, England; [Martinez-Hernandez, David] Univ Salford, Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, England; [Martinez-Hernandez, David] Tottenham Hotspur Women Football Club, Med & Sports Sci Dept, London, England								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:001279474600005	125	Article; Article		
J	Roetert, E. Paul; Allen, Jason; Davies, Karl; Harnett, Jason; Ochi, Satoshi								Training Wheelchair Tennis Players: A Strength and Conditioning Approach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	2			117	124		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000797			APR 2024	2024	The sport of wheelchair tennis has experienced significant growth in the United States, both at the grassroots and professional arenas. Much of this growth is due to the United States Tennis Association (USTA) taking control over the Paralympic side of the sport in 1998, followed by full integration of wheelchair tennis into the various business units of the organization in 2021. This led to the availability of greater resources benefiting USTA Player Development and high performance athletes. One of the most apparent benefits is using strength and conditioning USTA as the national professionals to improve athletic performance and decrease injury prevalence. Wheelchair tennis coaches and strength and conditioning professionals have collaborated to design innovative adaptations and accommodations. Therefore, the aim of this paper is to highlight the significant business and organizational progress made by the USTA as the National Governing Body for the sport of tennis, as well as to address practical strategies to develop and implement wheelchair players' specific strength and conditioning needs.		[Roetert, E. Paul] US Tennis Assoc, Special Projects, Orlando, FL 32827 USA; [Davies, Karl] US Tennis Assoc, Community Educ & Parent Support, Orlando, FL USA; [Harnett, Jason] US Tennis Assoc, Wheelchair Tennis, Orlando, FL USA; [Ochi, Satoshi] US Tennis Assoc, Orlando, FL USA; [Allen, Jason] Midtown Athlet Club, Chicago, IL USA; [Roetert, E. Paul] US Tennis Assoc, Special Projects, Orlando, FL 32827 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001279474600004	18	Article; Article		
J	Crotin, Ryan L.; Iniguez, Ximena R.; Carlson, Erin M.								Proximal Chain Strength and Coordination Concepts to Maximize Injury Protection and Transfer of Training Effects for Competitive Baseball Players								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	2			224	233		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000796			APR 2024	2024	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. Proximal injuries involving the core, intercostal musculature, and spine are the third leading cause of playing time loss in professional baseball. Long seasons and rotational unilaterality from hitting, throwing, and pitching exposes athletes to overuse risks, including disc herniation, spondyloses, spondylosis, facet joint syndromes, and pars lumbar fractures. This article describes injury epidemiology, rotational biomechanics including energy transfer dynamics, and offers injury prevention insights with minimal equipment. Ultimately, the goal of this article is to provide concepts to improve strength and coordination in training to offer greater injury protection and performance in baseball.For a video abstract of this article, see Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A382.		[Crotin, Ryan L.] ArmCare Com, Indialantic, FL 32903 USA; [Crotin, Ryan L.] Louisiana Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Human Performance Labs, Ruston, LA 71272 USA; [Crotin, Ryan L.] Auckland Univ Technol, SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Iniguez, Ximena R.; Carlson, Erin M.] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth & Solut, Sports Sci & Performance Programming, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Crotin, Ryan L.] ArmCare Com, Indialantic, FL 32903 USA; [Crotin, Ryan L.] Louisiana Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Human Performance Labs, Ruston, LA 71272 USA; [Crotin, Ryan L.] Auckland Univ Technol, SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001279474600010	37	Article; Article		
J	Asian-Clemente, Jose A.; Rabano-Munoz, Alberto; Suarez-Arrones, Luis; Requena, Bernardo								Analysis of Differences in Running Demands between Official Matches and Transition Games of Young Professional Soccer Players according to the Playing Position								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				121	131		10.5114/jhk/175339			APR 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to compare the running demands of transition games (TGs) and official matches, analysing their requirements according to the performance of each position. An observational design was used to examine the activity of 20 soccer players during official matches and TGs. GPS technology was used to monitor the total distance covered (DC), distance at speeds between 14-17.9 km<middle dot>h(-1), 18-21 km<middle dot>h(-1), and above 21 km<middle dot>h(-1), peak speed, accelerations and decelerations above 2.5 m<middle dot>s(-2), and Player Load for both activities. All players were assigned to groups: centre-backs (CBs), fullbacks (FBs), defensive midfielders (DMFs), offensive midfielders (OMFs), wide midfielders (WMFs) and strikers (Ss). TGs showed greater total DC, DC 14-17.9 km<middle dot>h(-1), DC 18-21 km<middle dot>h(-1), DC >21 km<middle dot>h(-1), accelerations and decelerations >2.5 m<middle dot>s(-2), and Player Load (p < 0.01). CBs, FBs and Ss showed more DC, DC 14-17.9 km<middle dot>h(-1), DC 18-21 positions, transition game players showed greater DC 18-21 km<middle dot>h(-1), DC >21 km<middle dot>h(-1), accelerations and decelerations >2.5 m<middle dot>s(-2) than in matches (p < 0.05). DMFs showed higher total DC (p < 0.05) and WMFs greater DC and DC 14-17.9 km<middle dot>h(-1) (p < 0.01) in these drills. During transition games CBs showed greater DC 14-17.9 km<middle dot>h(-1) than FBs, and greater DC than Ss (p < 0.05). FBs performed more decelerations >2.5 m<middle dot>s(-2) than DMFs and OMFs (p < 0.05). TGs produced a homogenized load in soccer players, independent of their position, which exceeded the external load of official matches.		[Asian-Clemente, Jose A.; Rabano-Munoz, Alberto] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Dept Sport Sci, Seville, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose A.; Suarez-Arrones, Luis; Requena, Bernardo] Football Sci Inst, Granada, Spain; [Suarez-Arrones, Luis] FC Lugano, Performance Dept, Lugano, Switzerland; [Asian-Clemente, Jose A.] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Dept Sport Sci, Seville, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose A.] Football Sci Inst, Granada, Spain								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600012	40	Article; Article		
J	Bezuglov, Eduard; Semeniuk, Nadezhda; Shoshorina, Maria; Savin, Evgeny; Waskiewicz, Zbigniew; Emanov, Anton; Malyakin, Georgiy; Telyshev, Danila; Morgans, Ryland								Is There a Relative Age Effect among the Most Successful Track and Field Athletes?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				193	202		10.5114/jhk/174497			APR 2024	2024	The prevalence of the Relative Age Effect (RAE) was studied among medalists from the World Athletics Championships at U18, U20 and Senior age groups and from the Olympic Games from 2000 to 2022. The specific events examined were the 100, 200, 400, 800, 1500, and 3000/5000 m, the long jump, the triple jump, the high jump and the pole vault. Dates of birth from 1,858 outdoor track and field athletes were analysed and further divided into four groups according to the quartile of birth. The RAE was found to be widespread among athletes of both sexes in U18 and U20 age groups in all examined disciplines. There was no difference between the most successful U18 and U20 athletes (p = 0.52). Among senior athletes of both sexes, this effect was not detected and the number of "late -born" athletes in this age group was higher than athletes born in the first three quarters. The prevalence of the RAE across the four groups of events was found in U18 and U20 age groups. Additionally, within each age group, the difference among events was statistically significant. In most successful track and field athletes, the RAE is only significant in U18 and U20 age groups. In senior athletes, the number of "late -born" athletes is significant while RAE disappears. These data may be considered when assessing the athletic potential of an individual athlete.		[Bezuglov, Eduard; Shoshorina, Maria; Malyakin, Georgiy; Telyshev, Danila; Morgans, Ryland] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, Dept Sports Med & Med Rehabil, Moscow, Russia; [Bezuglov, Eduard; Savin, Evgeny; Emanov, Anton; Malyakin, Georgiy] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, High Performance Sports Lab, Moscow, Russia; [Semeniuk, Nadezhda] Acad Talents, Moscow, Russia; [Waskiewicz, Zbigniew] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Malyakin, Georgiy] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, Dept Sports Med & Med Rehabil, Moscow, Russia; [Malyakin, Georgiy] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, High Performance Sports Lab, Moscow, Russia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600010	37	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Jiseop; Park, Dawon; Lee, Joo -Young; Park, Jaebum								Effect of Warm-Up Exercise on Functional Regulation of Motor Unit Activation during Isometric Torque Production								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				29	41		10.5114/jhk/185157			APR 2024	2024	In this study, we tested several hypotheses related to changes in motor unit activation patterns after warm-up exercise. Fifteen healthy young men participated in the experiment and the main task was to produce voluntary torque through the elbow joint under the isometric condition. The experimental conditions consisted of two directions of torque, including flexion and extension, at two joint angles, 10 degrees and 90 degrees. Participants were asked to increase the joint torque to the maximal level at a rate of 10% of the maximum voluntary torque. The warm-up protocol followed the ACSM guidelines, which increased body temperature by approximately 1.5 degrees C. Decomposition electromyography electrodes, capable of extracting multiple motor unit action potentials from surface signals, were placed on the biceps and triceps brachii muscles, and joint torque was measured on the dynamometer. The mean firing rate and the recruitment threshold of the decomposed motor units were quantified. In addition, a single motor unit activity from the spike train was quantified for each of five selected motor units. The magnitude of joint torque increased with the warm-up exercise for all the experimental conditions. The results of the motor unit analyses showed a positive and beneficial effect of the warm-up exercise, with an increase in both the mean firing rate and the recruitment threshold by about 56% and 33%, respectively, particularly in the agonist muscle. Power spectral density in the gamma band, which is thought to be the dominant voluntary activity, was also increased by the warm-up exercise only in the high threshold motor units.		[Lee, Jiseop; Park, Dawon; Park, Jaebum] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Jiseop] Yonsei Univ, Coll Med, Dept Internal Med, Div Geriatr, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Joo -Young; Park, Jaebum] Seoul Natl Univ, Adv Inst Convergence Technol, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Joo -Young] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Fash & Text, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Joo -Young] Seoul Natl Univ, Res Inst Human Ecol, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Jaebum] Seoul Natl Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Jaebum] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept AI Integrated Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Jaebum] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Jaebum] Seoul Natl Univ, Adv Inst Convergence Technol, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Jaebum] Seoul Natl Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Jaebum] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept AI Integrated Educ, Seoul, South Korea								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600006	40	Article; Article		
J	Chiu, Yi-Wen; Silva, Rui Miguel; Ceylan, Halil Ibrahim; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas; Chen, Yung-Sheng								Relationships among Physical Fitness, External Loads, and Heart Rate Recovery: A Study on Futsal Players during an Overseas Congested-Weeks Training Camp								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				73	85		10.5114/jhk/176299			APR 2024	2024	This study examined relationships among players' physical characteristics, match external loads, and heart rate recovery (HRR) during match substitutions in a congested fixture of an overseas futsal training camp. Eleven under-20 national futsal players' anthropometric characteristics (age, body height, body mass, % fat, and % muscle) and physical fitness [HRmax, VO(2)max, maximal aerobic speed (MAS) during the 30-15 intermittent fitness test (IFT)] were determined. Additionally, locomotion profiles during field play and HRR sitting on the bench were recorded during five matches. A repeated-measures analysis of variance and Pearson's correlation coefficient were used for statistical analysis. The results revealed that the overall observed correlations among anthropometry, body composition, physical fitness, and HRR were inconsistent across all the matches and substitutions. However, the numbers of moderate (1.00-1.99 m/s(2)), moderate-to-high (2.00-2.99 m/s(2)), and high (3.00-50.00 m/s(2)) intensities of acceleration presented negative correlations in the last match (r < -0.76; p < 0.05). HRR during match substitutions may have been influenced by uncontrolled factors across all the match play and recovery. HRR measures may be affected mainly by fatigue caused by the accumulation of accelerations throughout a congested fixture during a congested-schedule of a futsal training camp.		[Silva, Rui Miguel; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Fu Jen Catholic Univ, Dept Phys Educ, New Taipei City, Taiwan; [Silva, Rui Miguel; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Sch Sport & Leisure, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Ceylan, Halil Ibrahim] Sport Phys Act & Hlth Res & Innovat Ctr SPRINT, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Ataturk Univ, Kazim Karabekir Fac Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Teaching Dept, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Gonzalez-Fernandez, Francisco Tomas] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech & Sport Engn, Gdansk, Poland; [Chen, Yung-Sheng] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Chen, Yung-Sheng] Univ Taipei, Dept Exercise & Hlth Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chen, Yung-Sheng] Exercise & Hlth Promot Assoc, New Taipei City, Taiwan; [Chen, Yung-Sheng] Tanyu Res Lab, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chen, Yung-Sheng] Univ Taipei, Dept Exercise & Hlth Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chen, Yung-Sheng] Exercise & Hlth Promot Assoc, New Taipei City, Taiwan; [Chen, Yung-Sheng] Tanyu Res Lab, Taipei, Taiwan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600003	31	Article; Article		
J	Tan, Jingwang; Lei, Jianbin; Wu, Sam S. X.; Adams, Roger; Wu, Xueping; Zhang, Qingwen; Luan, Lijiang; Han, Jia; Zou, Yu								Modulation of Heart Rate Variability and Brain Excitability through Acute Whole-Body Vibration: The Role of Frequency								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				111	120		10.5114/jhk/183745			APR 2024	2024	This cross -over study aimed to explore effects of acute whole -body vibration (WBV) at frequencies of 5-35 Hz on heart rate variability and brain excitability. Thirteen healthy physically active college students randomly completed eight interventions under the following conditions: static upright standing without vibration (CON), static squat exercise (knee flexion 150 degrees) on the vibration platform (SSE), and static squat exercise (knee flexion 150 degrees) combined with WBV at vibration frequency of 5, 9, 13, 20, 25, and 35 Hz. Five bouts x 30 s with a 30-s rest interval were performed for all interventions. The brain's direct current potentials (DCPs), frequency domain variables (FDV) including normalized low frequency power (nLF), normalized high frequency power (nHF) and the ratio of LF to HF (LF/HF), along with the mean heart rate (MHR) were collected and calculated before and after the WBV intervention. Results suggested that WBV frequency at 5 Hz had a substantial effect on decreasing DCPs [-2.13 mu V, t(84) = -3.82, p < 0.05, g = -1.03, large] and nLF [-13%, t(84) = -2.31, p = 0.04, g = -0.62, medium]. By contrast, 20-35 Hz of acute WBV intervention considerably improved DCPs [7.58 mu V, t(84) = 4.31, p < 0.05, g = 1.16, large], nLF [17%, t(84) = 2.92, p < 0.05, g = 0.79, large] and the LF/HF [0.51, t(84) = 2.86, p < 0.05, g = 0.77, large]. A strong (r = 0.7, p < 0.01) correlation between DCPs and nLF was found at 5 Hz. In summary, acute WBV at 20-35 Hz principally activated the sympathetic nervous system and increased brain excitability, while 5 -Hz WBV activated the parasympathetic nervous system and reduced brain excitability. The frequency spectrum of WBV might be manipulated according to the intervention target on heart rate variability and brain excitability.		[Tan, Jingwang; Lei, Jianbin; Zou, Yu] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Hangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wu, Sam S. X.] Univ Tasmania, Sch Hlth Sci, Launceston, Tas, Australia; [Wu, Sam S. X.; Adams, Roger; Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Adams, Roger] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, Australia; [Wu, Xueping; Zhang, Qingwen] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Luan, Lijiang] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Swinburne Univ Technol, Fac Hlth Arts & Design, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Zou, Yu] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Hangzhou, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Swinburne Univ Technol, Fac Hlth Arts & Design, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600013	27	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Yibo; Leng, Bo								Performance of Elite Women's Singles Badminton Players: The Influence of Left-Handed Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				239	249		10.5114/jhk/172783			APR 2024	2024	The purpose of the study was to analyze the influence of left-handed athletes on the opponent (right-handed players) of elite badminton women's singles. The study selected a total of 40 women's singles matches played by elite female players: twenty matches (42 games, n = 42) were played between left-handed and right-handed players and twenty matches (44 games, n = 44) were played between two right-handed players. There were significant (p < 0.05) differences in hitting positions, techniques, routes and landing points. No significant (p > 0.05) differences were found in scores per game and frequency distribution of rally outcomes. In conclusion, the details of technical and tactical application were different in two game forms, the main impact of the left-handed player on the opponent's (right-handed player) game was a decrease in the opponent's stroke in the overhead, an increase in the number of drives, predominance of small slashes and a decrease in big slashes.		[Zhang, Yibo] Taiyuan Univ Technol, Coll Phys Educ, Taiyuan, Shanxi, Peoples R China; [Leng, Bo] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Competit Sports, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Leng, Bo] Beijing Sport Univ, Coll Competit Sports, Beijing, Peoples R China								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600019	38	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Bartolomeu, Raul F.; Barbosa, Tiago M.								Understanding the Importance of Drag Coefficient Assessment for a Deeper Insight into the Hydrodynamic Profile of Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				92				19	27		10.5114/jhk/172492			APR 2024	2024	The main objective of this study was to confirm that the passive drag coefficient is less dependent on swimming speed than the passive drag, Froude, and Reynolds numbers, even as swimming speed increases. The sample consisted of 12 young proficient non-competitive swimmers (seven males and five females: 20.4 +/- 1.9 years). Passive drag was measured with a low -voltage isokinetic engine at 1.2, 1.4, 1.6 and 1.8 m/s. The frontal surface area was measured using digital photogrammetry. Passive drag showed significant differences with a strong effect size over the four towing speeds measured (F = 116.84, p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.91) with a quadratic relationship with speed. The Froude and Reynolds numbers had similar trends, but with linear relationships. Conversely, the passive drag coefficient showed non -significant differences across the four towing speeds (F = 3.50, p = 0.062, eta(2) = 0.33). This strongly suggests that the passive drag coefficient should be the variable of choice for monitoring the hydrodynamic profile of swimmers rather than the absolute value of passive drag.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Bartolomeu, Raul F.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sports Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Bartolomeu, Raul F.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sports Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Bartolomeu, Raul F.] Polytech Inst Guarda, Dept Sports Sci, Guarda, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sports Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001222082600008	28	Article; Article		
J	Pancotto, Francesca; Addessi, Giorgio; Auteri, Nicola								Soccer Bubble: Is There a Speculative Bubble in the Price of International Soccer Players?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	5			535	556		10.1177/15270025241239631			JUN 2024	2024	An exponentially increasing trend of players' registration prices has taken place since 2012, and we test the hypothesis that this may be a speculative bubble, using a structural break test (Chow test) on a data set of international soccer players' registration prices, that ranges from 2007 to 2019. The test confirms the presence of an abrupt change in the trend of these prices since the year 2012, both for the whole data set and for subgroups based on the types of competition considered (Champions League, Europa League, and residual) and on the age of the players. We surmise that a possible root at the base of this trend is the need for soccer teams to cope with the Fair Play regulation, which has taken place exactly in the same years, and caused an excess of players' trading as a means to comply with the obligation for teams to balance their books over time.		[Pancotto, Francesca; Addessi, Giorgio; Auteri, Nicola] Univ Modena, Dept Studies Languages & Cultures, Modena, Italy; [Pancotto, Francesca] Dept Studies Languages & Cultures, Largo St Eufemia 19, I-41121 Modena, Italy; [Pancotto, Francesca] Dept Studies Languages & Cultures, Largo St Eufemia 19, I-41121 Modena, Italy								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001194529800001	42	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Yangjie; Sun, Cuicui; Wang, Jinxian; Mao, Xiaoyan								Do People Feel Healthier After Holding Sports Mega-Events? Evidence from the 2010 Guangzhou Asian Games								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	5			583	609		10.1177/15270025241239630			JUN 2024	2024	The assessment of environmental and health impacts stemming from sports mega-events plays an important role in evaluating the overall cost-benefit of the events. This study utilizes microdata sourced from the China Household Income Project in conjunction with a time-varying difference-in-differences methodology. Through this approach, we estimated the impact of the 2010 Guangzhou Asian Games on both air quality and public health conditions within China. The results reveal the following: (1) The Games wield substantial and favorable effects on self-perceived health; (2) The primary avenue through which the Games improve self-perceived health is by mitigating air pollution levels in the cities associated with the Games; (3) The cost-benefit analysis unveils that hosting the Games has led to a reduction of 1103.12 million RMB in residents' medical expenses, with the improved air quality accounting for 20.15% of the cost reduction.		[Wang, Yangjie; Sun, Cuicui; Wang, Jinxian; Mao, Xiaoyan] Cent South Univ, Business Sch, Lushan South Rd 932, Changsha 410083, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jinxian] Cent South Univ, Business Sch, Lushan South Rd 932, Changsha 410083, Peoples R China								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001194521700001	64	Article; Article		
J	Srinivasa Gopalan, Sharan; Liu, Sam; Mann, Caitlin; Buckler, E. Jean								Examining the coach-athlete relationship for facilitators and barriers to healthy sport participation for cyclically menstruating athletes: A systematic review								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1785	1800		10.1177/17479541241239925			AUG 2024	2024	Menstrual function is an integral component of the overall health and well-being of cyclically menstruating athletes, impacted by and affecting their participation in sport and athletic training. This review used the coach-athlete relationship to examine the sport environment for factors that facilitate or hinder healthy sport participation for cyclically menstruating athletes with respect to their menstrual cycles. Four databases were searched until June 30, 2023, for studies that explored the experiences, perceptions and knowledge related to the menstrual cycle among athletes training under a coach and coaches of cyclically menstruating athletes. The search produced 2511 studies, which, following screening for relevance and eligibility, resulted in 34 studies of moderate-to-high quality. Thematic synthesis and integration of qualitative and quantitative data from 7558 athletes and coaches from elite to amateur level uncovered 4 main themes pertaining to the coach-athlete relationship and the menstrual cycle that constituted barriers (menstruation taboo, lack of knowledge and awareness, and lack of communication among stakeholders) and facilitators (presence of female coaches, positive experiences of communicating about the menstrual cycle, and trust) to healthy sport participation. A final theme summarised the needs of athletes and coaches related to the menstrual cycle. Greater education, representation of females in sporting roles, and improved collaboration among the various stakeholders emerged as the primary factors for driving a culture-shift in the sporting environment, in order to abolish the taboo against menstruation and promote healthy sport participation for cyclically menstruating athletes.		[Srinivasa Gopalan, Sharan; Liu, Sam; Mann, Caitlin; Buckler, E. Jean] Univ Victoria, Sch Exercise Sci Phys & Hlth Educ, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Srinivasa Gopalan, Sharan] Univ Victoria, Sch Exercise Sci Phys & Hlth Educ, Victoria, BC, Canada								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001193089000001	69	Article; Article		
J	Lau, Rachel; Mukherjee, Swarup								Development and validation of an overuse injury questionnaire for youth athletes: The Youth Overuse Injury Questionnaire								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				47	53		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.03.003			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: To develop and validate the Youth Overuse Injury Questionnaire (YOvIQ). Design: A cross-sectional study. Setting: Online platforms. Participants: Two content experts (in sports injury epidemiology and in sports science and medicine) and seven end-users (youth volleyball athletes) provided feedback during development of the YOvIQ. 227 competitive youth athletes across 14 different sports assessed the psychometric properties of the YOvIQ. Main outcome measures: Participants completed both YOvIQ and the Oslo Sports Trauma Research Centre Overuse Injury Questionnaire (OSTRC-O2) for anatomical areas of the shoulder, elbow, lower back, knee, and ankle/foot. Validity was assessed via convergent validity. Reliability was assessed using internal consistency estimation and interclass correlation coefficient. Results: Following feedback from content experts, examples and quantitative symbolization were added to the options in YOvIQ, with positive feedback from end-users. Convergent validity between YOvIQ and the OSTRC-O2 was demonstrated with non-significant differences (P >= .05) and significant correlations (P < 0.001) for prevalence and severity scores. YOvIQ demonstrated internal consistency for prevalence (Cronbach's alpha coefficient >0.70) and moderate-to-good reliability for severity scores (ICC: 0.51 to 0.88) for shoulder, lower back, and knee. Conclusions: The YOvIQ is a valid and reliable instrument to identify overuse injuries to the shoulder, lower back, and knee in youth athletes.		[Lau, Rachel; Mukherjee, Swarup] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sport Sci Acad Grp, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore; [Mukherjee, Swarup] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sport Sci Acad Grp, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001226851600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Stewart, Aubrey M.; Wright, Nicholas A.								Remote Viewership of International Sporting Events and Crime: Evidence From Jamaica								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	5			610	633		10.1177/15270025241240393			JUN 2024	2024	This article examines the effect of televised international sporting events (e.g., FIFA World Cup or Summer Olympics) on crime in Jamaica. We use a fixed effects model that compares, within each police division, the level of crime that occurs during these international sporting events to the rate of crime on similar days when these events are not occurring. We found that on days when the FIFA World Cup matches are held, there is a reduction in the number of murders (23.3%), shootings (20%), break-ins (19.4%), and robberies (11.7%), relative to the average number of each incident. We found no evidence of crime displacement, as these crimes also reduced during nonmatch periods during the FIFA World Cup. On the other hand, our results suggest that the international events that are less popular in Jamaica (the World Athletics Championship, the Summer Olympics, and the Winter Olympics) had a minimal impact on crime.		[Stewart, Aubrey M.] Florida Int Univ, Dept Publ Policy & Adm, 11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Wright, Nicholas A.] Florida Int Univ, Dept Econ, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Stewart, Aubrey M.] Florida Int Univ, Dept Publ Policy & Adm, 11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001190144300001	37	Article; Article		
J	Hart, Rylea; Smith, Heather; Zhang, Yanxin								The development of an automated assessment system for resistance training movement								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3375	3407		10.1080/14763141.2024.2329066			NOV 2 2025	2025	Portable data collection devices and machine learning (ML) have been combined in autonomous movement analysis models for resistance training (RT) movements. However, input features for these models were mostly extracted empirically and subsequent models demonstrated limited interpretability and generalisability to real-world settings. This study aimed to investigate the utility of interpretable and generalisable modelling techniques and several data-driven feature extraction (FE) methods. This was achieved by developing machine learning movement analysis models for the barbell back squat and deadlift using markerless motion capture. 61 participants performed submaximal and maximal repetitions of both RT movements. Movement data was collected using two Azure Kinect cameras. Joint and segment kinematic variables were calculated from the collected depth imaging, and input features were extracted using traditional, manual FE methods and novel data-driven techniques. Classifiers were developed for several predefined technical deviations for both movements. Many of the addressed technical deviations could be classified with good levels of accuracy (>= 70%) while the remainder were poor (55%-60%). Additionally, data-driven FE techniques were comparable to previous, traditional FE methods. Interpretable and generalisable modelling techniques can be utilised to good effect for certain classification tasks while data-driven FE techniques did not provide a consistent advantage over traditional FE methods.		[Hart, Rylea; Smith, Heather; Zhang, Yanxin] Univ Auckland, Fac Sci, Dept Exercise Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Zhang, Yanxin] Univ Auckland, Fac Sci, Dept Exercise Sci, Auckland, New Zealand								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001189453200001	47	Article; Article		
J	Corsie, Martin; Malone, Michael; Swinton, Paul A.								Translating novel collective behaviour measures to concepts and principles of play as understood by football coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1443	1458		10.1177/17479541241238991			AUG 2024	2024	Background A range of innovative performance analysis metrics have been applied in recent years to investigate aspects of football using tempo-spatial and network analyses. These approaches have gained traction within some professional teams to quantify and assess features of collective behaviour. However, metrics employed are rarely created from, or clearly link to, domain expertise and as a result coaches may be hesitant of their value. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify coach perceptions of spatial temporal and network metrics and identify the feasibility of an iterative and collaborative process to developing metrics.Methods Two rounds of semi-structured interviews were conducted with three Scottish youth international UEFA Pro License coaches (age: 47.0 +/- 2.7 years) with a focus on aligning metrics with concepts and principles of play. An iterative approach was used centring around spatial-temporal and network metrics and their adaptation. Reflexive thematic analyses were conducted with final metrics categorized as resonant (accurately describing concept or principles of play), relevant (appropriate but with limitations that need improvement), or hesitant (skeptical of usefulness).Results Across the ten recognized principles of play, nine metrics were identified and adapted to varying degrees. Resonant metrics included: network intensity (mobility), distance between defenders (discipline), triangles (support), team length and distance between deepest defender and goal line (depth).Conclusion Coaches recognize principles of play within complex collective behaviour metrics and should be encouraged to collaborate with analysts to develop support systems that may prove to be more valuable and usable.		[Corsie, Martin] Solent Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Social Sci, East Pk Terrace, Southampton, England; [Malone, Michael; Swinton, Paul A.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Corsie, Martin] Solent Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Social Sci, East Pk Terrace, Southampton, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001188421900001	56	Article; Article		
J	Szymkowicz, Joseph M.; Saari, Anssi; Hillman, Angela								Internal load and wellness responses between consecutive collegiate female field hockey matches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2119	2126		10.1177/17479541241236670			OCT 2024	2024	This study evaluated internal load (IL) and wellness between consecutive field hockey matches played over a 2-day period across a 7-week season consisting of 12 total matches. Twelve NCAA Division I hockey players' IL was assessed by heart rate (HR) zones (zone 1 = 50-60% HRmax, zone 2 = 60-70% HRmax, zone 3 = 70-80% HRmax, zone 4 = 80-90% HRmax, and zone 5 > 90% HRmax) and HR-derived training impulse. Wellness items (sleep, stress, fatigue, soreness, and total wellness) were obtained to measure the players' subjective responses. Linear mixed models were used to examine the main effects of time (matched pairs of games) and the interaction between match (match 1 vs 2) and week (week 1-6) for IL. For wellness, main effects for time (mid-week, post-match 1, and post-match 2) and the interaction between day (mid-week, post-match 1, and post-match 2) and week (week 1-5) were examined. More time was spent in HR zone 1 in match 2 versus 1 (mean difference (MD) = 4.2 +/- 3.0 minutes). Total wellness, fatigue, and soreness were all worse post-match 2 compared to mid-week (MD = 1.8 +/- 1.4 AU, MD = 0.4 +/- 0.6 AU, and MD = 0.8 +/- 0.4 AU, respectively). Our results indicate that evaluation of specific wellness items may help practitioners determine the source of decreased wellness and adjust the weekly training load or recovery strategies based off the results of the changes in IL.		[Szymkowicz, Joseph M.; Hillman, Angela] Ohio Univ, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Athens, OH USA; [Saari, Anssi] Finnish Inst High Performance Sport KIHU, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Szymkowicz, Joseph M.] Ohio Univ, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Grover Ctr E160,1 Ohio Univ, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Szymkowicz, Joseph M.] Ohio Univ, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Grover Ctr E160,1 Ohio Univ, Athens, OH 45701 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001187940400001	31	Article; Article		
J	Hughes, L.; Swain, P. M.; Lai, T.; McEwen, J. A.								It's time to regulate - The importance of accurate surgical-grade tourniquet autoregulation in blood flow restriction exercise applications								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				41	46		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.02.001			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: Evaluate the efficacy of five common blood flow restriction (BFR) systems to accurately maintain and autoregulate BFR pressure in the tourniquet cuff near target pressure throughout exercise. Design: Randomised crossover design. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 15 healthy individuals. Outcome measures: 1) Percentage of total BFR time that surgical -grade tourniquet autoregulation, defined as automatic and rapid self -regulation of cuff pressure to within +/- 15 mmHg of initial target pressure within 1 s in the presence of transient pressure changes associated with exercise, was provided; 2) pressure change in the BFR cuff throughout exercise, by comparing the initial target pressure to the measured pressure at completion of BFR exercise. Results: One BFR system could provide surgical -grade tourniquet autoregulation for the whole duration (100 +/- 0%) of the BFR exercise in all subjects. In two of the five BFR systems evaluated, measured cuff pressure at the end of exercise was not different (p < 0.05) to the initial target pressure. Conclusions: Surgical -grade tourniquet autoregulation is important to consistently and reliably apply a targeted BFR pressure stimulus. This may allow BFR methodology and protocols to be accurately implemented and controlled so that the results can be more meaningfully compared, leading to the potential optimization of applications.		[Hughes, L.; Swain, P. M.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, England; [Lai, T.] Western Clin Engn Ltd, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [McEwen, J. A.] Univ British Columbia, Sch Biomed Engn, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [McEwen, J. A.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Orthopaed, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [McEwen, J. A.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Elect & Comp Engn, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Hughes, L.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, England								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001225781600001	24	Article; Article		
J	Loo, Joanne K.; Choong, Gabriel C. W.; Chew, Lewis Y. Q.; Suppiah, Haresh								From theory to practice: Examining evidence-based approaches in youth sport coaches in Singapore								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1406	1414		10.1177/17479541241240103			AUG 2024	2024	Although evidence-based practice (EBP) is considered the ideal approach for achieving optimal outcomes for sport science practitioners, coaches and athletes, significant concerns impede its adoption. This study examines (1) the implementation of, (2) sources to gather evidence-based knowledge and (3) barriers to EBP from youth coaches' perspectives within Singapore. Fifty-three coaches (M age = 33.1 years, SD = 8.1) completed a 22-question survey through purposive sampling. Questions regarding the implementation of EBP showed that the top 3 research areas used were 'Strength and conditioning/fitness' (72%), 'Skill development' and 'Mental training and preparation' (both 57%); coaches relied on their personal experience more than scientific evidence (mean = 55.7 AU, SD = 1.5) when designing performance/training programmes. The top 3 preferred sources to gather evidence-based knowledge were 'Websites/podcasts/forums', 'Practitioners within their sport' and 'Social media'. The top 3 preferred feedback methods from practitioners were 'Informal conversations/speaking', 'Scheduled meetings' and 'Shared access of database/cloud-based software'. The top 3 qualities/attributes of practitioners preferred were those with 'Excellent knowledge of the sport/game', 'Years of experience as practitioner' and 'Strong communication skills'. More than half of the coaches wished to receive more information regarding 'Mental training and preparation' (62%) and 'Training load monitoring' (53%). Lastly, the key barriers to EBP were 'Non-applicable or irrelevant research reported' (38%), 'Inability to translate information to applied sporting context' and 'Time' (both 34%). With these findings, practitioners can explore working with coaches on EBP to yield effective and sustainable outcomes.		[Loo, Joanne K.; Choong, Gabriel C. W.; Chew, Lewis Y. Q.] Natl Youth Sports Inst, Stadium Lane,S397778, Singapore, Singapore; [Suppiah, Haresh] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Dept Sport Exercise & Nutr Sci, Sport Performance & Nutr SPAN Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Loo, Joanne K.] Natl Youth Sports Inst, Stadium Lane,S397778, Singapore, Singapore								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001185696400001	46	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Qiang; Yim, Brian; Kim, Kyungsik; Tian, Zhibo								The role of destination personality in the relationship between destination image and behavioral intention among ski tourists								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	3			560	577		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2023-0170			JUL 9 2024	2024	PurposeThe aim of this study was (1) to investigate the relationship between destination image (DI), destination personality (DP) and behavioral intention (BI) in the context of ski tourism and (2) especially the role of DP in the relationship between DI and BI among ski tourists.Design/methodology/approachWe collected data using WJX.CN (N = 400) to test the hypothesized model. Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was used to examine the psychometric properties of the measurement model and partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) was used to test the hypotheses.FindingsThe results show that DI directly affects DP and partially affects BI, while DP directly affects ski tourists' BI. In addition, the indirect effect of DP between affective image and BI was significant, showing full mediation, and the indirect effect of DP between cognitive image and BI was significant, showing a partial mediation effect.Originality/valueThe findings enrich the ski tourism literature, contribute to the development of ski tourism in destination cities and the strategic marketing of ski resorts and provide recommendations for ski tourism researchers and marketers.		[Zhang, Qiang; Tian, Zhibo] Guangxi Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Guilin, Peoples R China; [Yim, Brian] Kent State Univ, Sch Fdn Leadership & Adm, Kent, OH 44240 USA; [Kim, Kyungsik] Hoseo Univ, Asan Campus, Asan, South Korea; [Yim, Brian] Kent State Univ, Sch Fdn Leadership & Adm, Kent, OH 44240 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001182333700001	85	Article; Article		
J	Romero-Jara, Edgar; Solanellas, Francesc; Lopez-Carril, Samuel; Kolyperas, Dimitrios; Anagnostopoulos, Christos								The more we post, the better? A comparative analysis of fan engagement on social media profiles of football leagues								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	3			578	599		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2023-0252			JUL 9 2024	2024	PurposeIn a dynamic, continuously evolving sports landscape, social media have become an indispensable tool for sports organizations to cultivate meaningful connections with fans. The rapid pace of technological advancements has elevated these digital platforms from a supplementary role to a pivotal position within strategic management frameworks. The existing literature explores how football clubs can utilize social media, but analyzing social media strategies within the context of football leagues is lacking. The absence of comparative studies benchmarking clubs across different geographical regions while simultaneously analyzing multiple social media platforms is especially noteworthy. In this study, a comprehensive analysis of social media engagement is undertaken within esteemed football leagues spanning Europe, South America and North America.Design/methodology/approachDrawing on relationship marketing and employing content analysis as a methodological tool, the study examined 10,772 posts from the official accounts of eight football leagues on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.FindingsAcross the leagues, the findings reveal that content quality drives engagement more than frequency. In addition, several format combinations were identified that facilitate engagement and Instagram emerged as the top social media platform for generating fan engagement.Originality/valueThis is one of the first empirical studies focusing on optimizing the use of social media to amplify fan engagement across various geographies and social media accounts and formats simultaneously.		[Romero-Jara, Edgar] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia, Barcelona, Spain; [Solanellas, Francesc] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia, Grup Invest Social & Educ Activitat Fis & Esport G, Barcelona, Spain; [Lopez-Carril, Samuel] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Toledo, Spain; [Kolyperas, Dimitrios] Univ Stirling, Stirling, Scotland; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Div Engn Management & Decis Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Romero-Jara, Edgar] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia, Barcelona, Spain								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001180403100001	70	Article; Article		
J	Downward, Paul; Wicker, Pamela; Thormann, Tim F.								The Well-Being and Social Value of Playing Soccer for Women and Men								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	8			1003	1024		10.1177/15270025241233552			DEC 2024	2024	This study examines the well-being and social value of playing different forms of soccer for men and women by employing the compensating variation approach to survey data from eight European countries. Framed by the desired objective of Title IX, this research assesses possible gender differences in the social benefits of sport. Social values are higher than the well-being derived from playing soccer, with the values of both being greater for women. Less formal forms of soccer yield generally higher monetary values than the competitive 11-a-side format. As the marginal returns are greater, investment should promote women's engagement and more informal playing opportunities.		[Downward, Paul] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Wicker, Pamela; Thormann, Tim F.] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Bielefeld, Germany; [Wicker, Pamela] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany; [Wicker, Pamela] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001184091400001	76	Article; Article		
J	Vasavada, Kinjal; Lin, Charles C.; Jazrawi, Laith M.; Samuels, Jonathan								Postoperative complications in rheumatic disease patients undergoing arthroscopy on immunosuppression								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	5			507	512		10.1080/00913847.2024.2324363			SEP 2 2024	2024	BackgroundThere are currently no guidelines on peri-arthroscopic management of immunosuppressive (IS) treatment in rheumatic disease patients.PurposeThe purpose of this study is to characterize the rheumatic disease patient population undergoing arthroscopy, compare the incidence of postoperative complications among patients who either remained on IS perioperatively, held IS perioperatively or were not on IS at baseline, and compare the incidence of postoperative complications by rheumatic disease type, medication type, and procedure.MethodsWe conducted a retrospective review of all arthroscopic sports medicine surgeries in patients with a rheumatic disease diagnosis at our institution over an 11-year period. Patients on IS at baseline were grouped into those who remained on IS perioperatively or held all IS before the date of their surgery. These two groups were compared to patients who were not on IS at baseline. Incidence of postoperative complications was calculated for the three cohorts and by medication class, rheumatic disease type, and procedure risk. Analysis of variance (ANOVA), chi-squared, and Fisher's exact tests were used to determine the statistical significance of between-group differences in postoperative complication incidence.ResultsWe identified 1,316 rheumatic disease patients undergoing arthroscopy, with 214 of them taking IS medications at baseline. In total, 8.4% (n = 110) remained on IS perioperatively, 7.9% (n = 104) held IS perioperatively, and 83.7% (n = 1102) were not on IS at baseline. In all cohorts, seven patients experienced postoperative complications; six of whom experienced infections. Two (1.82%) occurred in patients remaining on IS perioperatively, zero infections occured in patients who held all IS, and four (0.36%) occured in patients who were not on any IS at baseline. There was no statistically significant difference in postoperative infections or complication rates among the three cohorts or further subgroups.ConclusionThe risk of postoperative complications including infectious, major, and minor complications in patients on IS at the time of arthroscopy is low and acceptable.		[Vasavada, Kinjal; Jazrawi, Laith M.] New York Univ Langone Orthoped Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Div Sports Med, New York, NY USA; [Lin, Charles C.] New York Univ Langone Orthoped Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New York, NY USA; [Samuels, Jonathan] NYU Langone Hlth, Div Rheumatol, Clin Initiat, 333 East 38th St, New York, NY 10016 USA; [Samuels, Jonathan] NYU Langone Hlth, Div Rheumatol, Clin Initiat, 333 East 38th St, New York, NY 10016 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001182639200001	30	Article; Article		
J	Eckenrode, Brian J.; Kietrys, David M.; Brown, Allison; Parrott, J. Scott; Noehren, Brian								Effects of high frequency strengthening on pain sensitivity and function in female runners with chronic patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				31	40		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.02.007			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: To investigate the effects of a high frequency strengthening program on function, pain, and pain sensitization in female runners with chronic patellofemoral pain (PFP). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: Thirty female runners (mean age 32 +/- 8.1 years) with chronic PFP completed an 8-week home strengthening program. Main outcome measures: Variables assessed at baseline, 8-weeks, and 12 weeks included single leg step down test (SLSD), pain, Anterior Knee Pain Scale (AKPS), University of Wisconsin Running Injury and Recovery Index (UWRI), and quantitative sensory testing. Results: There was large and statistically significant improvement at 8 and 12 weeks for average knee pain (eta(2)(p) = 0.334, p < 0.001), worst knee pain (eta(2)(p) = 0.351, p < 0.001), SLSD (eta(2)(p) = 0.161, p = 0.001), AKPS (eta(2)(p) = 0.463, p < 0.001), and UWRI (eta(2)(p) = 0.366, p < 0.001). A medium to large effect and statistically significant improvement in pressure pain threshold testing was found for all local and remote structures (eta(2)(p) range, 0.110 to 0.293, range p < 0.001 to p = 0.009) at 8 and 12 weeks. Conclusions: There was a significant decrease in local and remote hyperalgesia via mechanical and thermal pain sensitivity testing in female runners with chronic PFP. There was a large effect and significant improvement in self-reported pain and function.		[Eckenrode, Brian J.] Arcadia Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Glenside, PA 19038 USA; [Kietrys, David M.] Rutgers Sch Hlth Profess, Dept Rehabil & Movement Sci, Blackwood, NJ 08012 USA; [Brown, Allison] Rutgers Sch Hlth Profess, Dept Rehabil & Movement Sci Newark, Newark, NJ 07101 USA; [Parrott, J. Scott] Rutgers Sch Hlth Profess, Dept Interdisciplinary Studies, Blackwood, NJ 08012 USA; [Noehren, Brian] Univ Kentucky, Dept Phys Therapy, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Eckenrode, Brian J.] Arcadia Univ, 450 S Easton Rd, Glenside, PA 19038 USA; [Eckenrode, Brian J.] Arcadia Univ, 450 S Easton Rd, Glenside, PA 19038 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001211256300001	103	Article; Article		
J	Welsner, Matthias; Gruber, Wolfgang; Blosch, Christopher; Koerner-Rettberg, Cordula; Brinkmann, Folke; Dillenhoefer, Stefanie; Sutharsan, Sivagurunathan; Taube, Christian; Mellies, Uwe; Olivier, Margarete; Stehling, Florian								Longitudinal Evaluation of Physical Fitness in Adults with Cystic Fibrosis in the Era of CFTR-Modulating-Therapies								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	4			804	812		10.1080/02701367.2024.2320234			OCT 1 2024	2024	Purpose: Maintaining physical fitness plays an important role in the management of people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF). Longitudinal data on the course of physical fitness and the potential impact of the introduction of highly effective CFTR modulator therapy with elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor (ETI) in adult pwCF are scarce. Methods: Health-related and skill-related components of physical fitness were assessed using an incremental cycle test (Wpeak), plus forward bend (FB), prone bent knee hip extension (HE), plank leg raise (PLR), standing long jump (SLJ), and standing on one leg (OLS). Relevant disease-specific clinical data (body mass index [BMI] and forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1]) were recorded. Results: Twenty-eight adult pwCF (age 26.0 +/- 7.8 years) were followed over 5.6 +/- 0.9 years; 21 started ETI therapy during this period. Significant improvements from baseline were noted in BMI (p < 0.001) and health-related fitness components (HE, p = 0.002; PLR, p = < 0.001), whereas Wpeak and FB remained stable over time (all p > 0.05). Skill-related components (SLJ, OLS) showed no change (all p > 0.05). Subgroup analysis revealed significant improvements in BMI, FEV1, and health-related fitness measures of muscular strength and endurance (HE, p = 0.009; PLR, p < 0.001) only in pwCF using ETI. Conclusion: Despite the improvements, the impact of ETI on the individual parameters was small. Other factors than implementation of ETI alone need to be considered on the way to a high level of physical fitness in adult pwCF.		[Welsner, Matthias; Sutharsan, Sivagurunathan; Taube, Christian] Univ Duisburg Essen, Univ Hosp Essen, Adult Cyst Fibrosis Ctr, Dept Pulm Med,Ruhrlandklin, Essen, Germany; [Gruber, Wolfgang; Blosch, Christopher; Mellies, Uwe; Olivier, Margarete; Stehling, Florian] Univ Duisburg Essen, Childrens Hosp, D-45122 Essen, Germany; [Gruber, Wolfgang] Christian Albrechts Univ Kiel, Kiel, Germany; [Blosch, Christopher; Koerner-Rettberg, Cordula; Brinkmann, Folke; Dillenhoefer, Stefanie] Ruhr Univ, Univ Childrens Hosp, Bochum, Germany; [Koerner-Rettberg, Cordula] Childrens Hosp Wesel, Wesel, Germany; [Welsner, Matthias] Univ Duisburg Essen, Univ Hosp Essen Ruhrlandklin, Adult Cyst Fibrosis Ctr, Dept Pulm Med, Tueschener Weg 40, D-45239 Essen, Germany; [Welsner, Matthias] Univ Duisburg Essen, Univ Hosp Essen Ruhrlandklin, Adult Cyst Fibrosis Ctr, Dept Pulm Med, Tueschener Weg 40, D-45239 Essen, Germany								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001183261500001	58	Article; Article		
J	Seymore, Kayla D.; Corrigan, Patrick; Sigurosson, Haraldur B.; Pohlig, Ryan T.; Silbernagel, Karin Gravare								Asymmetric running is associated with pain during outdoor running in individuals with Achilles tendinopathy in the return-to-sport phase								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				25	30		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.02.006			MAY 2024	2024	Objectives: To determine the relationships between (1) Achilles tendon pain and loading symmetry, and (2) number of running bouts and symptom severity, during two weeks of outdoor running in individuals with Achilles tendinopathy.<br /> Design: Prospective, observational study.<br /> Setting: Biomechanics laboratory and outdoors.<br /> Participants: Seventeen runners with Achilles tendinopathy in the return-to-sport phase of rehabilitation.<br /> Main outcome measures: Symptom severity was recorded with the Victorian Institute of Sports AssessmentAchilles (VISA-A) questionnaire. Running bouts and Achilles tendon pain during runs were recorded with daily training logs. Ground contact time was collected during runs with wearable sensors. Linear mixed modeling determined if the relationship between Achilles tendon pain and ground contact time symmetry during running was moderated by consecutive run days. Multiple regression determined the relationship between number of running bouts and change in VISA-A scores over two weeks, adjusted for run distance.<br /> Results: Greater ground contact time on the contralateral leg corresponded to increased ipsilateral tendon pain for each consecutive run day (b = -0.028, p < 0.001). Number of running bouts was not associated with 2-week changes in VISA-A scores (p = 0.672). Conclusions: Pain during running is associated with injured leg off-loading patterns, and this relationship strengthened with greater number of consecutive run days. Number of running bouts was not related to shortterm symptom severity.		[Seymore, Kayla D.; Silbernagel, Karin Gravare] Univ Delaware, Dept Phys Therapy, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Corrigan, Patrick] St Louis Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Athlet Training, St Louis, MO USA; [Sigurosson, Haraldur B.] Univ Iceland, Sch Hlth Sci, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Pohlig, Ryan T.] Univ Delaware, Dept Epidemiol, Newark, DE USA; [Silbernagel, Karin Gravare] Univ Delaware, Dept Phys Therapy, Newark, DE 19716 USA								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001225758400001	46	Article; Article		
J	Gardner, Carson H.; Kotlier, Jacob L.; Fathi, Amir; Castonguay, Justin; Thompson, Ashley A.; Bolia, Ioanna K.; Petrigliano, Frank A.; Liu, Joseph N.; Weber, Alexander E.; Gamradt, Seth C.								NCAA football players are at higher risk of upper extremity injury after first-time concussion								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	6			556	560		10.1080/00913847.2024.2327275			NOV 1 2024	2024	BackgroundPrevious research has demonstrated that concussions increase the risk of subsequent lower extremity musculoskeletal injury in athletes. However, the risk of upper extremity injury in athletes' post-concussion is poorly understood.MethodsAll concussed football players within a National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I conference athletic database were identified between 2017 and 2021. After exclusions, each athlete experiencing their first concussion was then retrospectively reviewed for upper extremity injuries in the year prior to their concussion and in the year beginning at 90 days after their concussion. All upper extremity injuries were identified and the odds ratio, 95% confidence interval, and statistical significance between groups were calculated in Microsoft Excel.Results160 de-identified football players from a single conference who were first diagnosed with concussions in the seasons from 2017 through 2021 met inclusion criteria. In these athletes the odds of upper extremity injury in year following first diagnosed concussion were 2.36 times higher than in the year prior (95% CI 1.13-4.95, p = 0.02). Shoulder was the most common site of injury with 57.7% of injuries compared to 19.2% in the hand, 15.4% in the elbow, 7.7% in the forearm, and 0% in the wrist.ConclusionThis study demonstrates that collegiate football players are at a 2.36 times greater risk of upper extremity injury in the year following their first diagnosed concussion compared to the year preceding it. The most common site of upper extremity injury after concussion was the shoulder.Level of evidenceIII.		[Gardner, Carson H.; Kotlier, Jacob L.; Fathi, Amir; Castonguay, Justin; Thompson, Ashley A.; Bolia, Ioanna K.; Petrigliano, Frank A.; Liu, Joseph N.; Weber, Alexander E.; Gamradt, Seth C.] USC, Keck Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Kotlier, Jacob L.] USC, Keck Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 1520 San Pablo St,Suite 2000, Los Angeles, CA 90033 USA; [Kotlier, Jacob L.] USC, Keck Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 1520 San Pablo St,Suite 2000, Los Angeles, CA 90033 USA								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001180957900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Mansouri, Hossein; Rad, Abdullah Rasaee; Tsiotsou, Rodoula H.; Husin, Maizaitulaidawati Md								Measuring the patronage intentions among football fans: the role of corporate social responsibility, brand credibility and brand equity								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	3			600	619		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2023-0161			JUL 9 2024	2024	PurposeThe study aims to identify critical factors that influence football fans' support of their favorite team by examining the impact of social responsibility, brand credibility and team brand equity on patronage intentions of professional football teams.Design/methodology/approachAn online survey collected data from 331 football fans of the Persian Gulf Premier League (PGPL) in Iran. The data were analyzed using partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM).FindingsThe findings revealed that corporate social responsibility (CSR) is able to influence brand equity, brand credibility and patronage intentions. Also, brand equity and brand credibility were found to be positively related to patronage intentions. In addition to that, the findings show that brand equity and team credibility partially mediate the relationship between CSR and patronage intentions.Practical implicationsThe findings provide valuable insights to sports teams/club managers aiming to attract new fans and retain current ones by investing in CSR and enhancing brand credibility and equity. Strategies to integrate CSR into relationship marketing and brand management are outlined.Originality/valueThis study empirically highlights the critical role of adhering to CSR and the effects of brand credibility and equity in enhancing patronage intentions among football team fans.		[Mansouri, Hossein] Univ Kurdistan, Sanandaj, Kurdistan, Iran; [Rad, Abdullah Rasaee] Shahid Chamran Univ, Ahvaz, Iran; [Tsiotsou, Rodoula H.] Univ Macedonia, Dept Business Adm, Serv Mkt, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Husin, Maizaitulaidawati Md] Univ Teknol Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Mansouri, Hossein] Univ Kurdistan, Sanandaj, Kurdistan, Iran								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001178962800001	83	Article; Article		
J	Sayer, Timothy A.; van Melick, Nicky; Riera, Jerome; Jackson, Jeremy; Bryant, Adam; Bogie, Rob; Cross, Nicholas; Edouard, Pascal; Rambaud, Alexandre								Is it time to develop specific return to running criteria for ACL rehabilitation? An international survey of physiotherapists criteria for return to running following ACL injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				19	24		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.02.005			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: To determine return to running criteria currently used by physiotherapists following anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury. Design: Self-reported online international survey. Methods: An online survey of physiotherapists across Australia, the Netherlands and France. Results: A total of 476 respondants participated in the survey across Australia (n = 153), the Netherlands (n = 162), and France (n = 161). For return to running criteria following a non-operative approach, the majority of respondents chose swelling (40.55%, n = 193/476), pain (38.24%, n = 182/476), knee extensor strength (34.34%, n = 163/476), single leg squat (31.93%, n = 152/476) and knee flexor strength (29.83%, n = 142/476). After ACL reconstruction, the highest responses were also swelling (41.18%, n = 196/476), pain (37.18%, n = 177/476), knee extensor strength (37.18%, n = 177/476) and single leg squat (33.19%, n = 158/476). From the identified themes the most common cutoff variables were pain between 0 and 3/10, swelling < grade 1+ and limb symmetry on strength and hop tests >70 %. Conclusion: Physiotherapists in Australia, France, and the Netherlands use many different return to running criteria and most of them use more than one criterion. Despite this, there was little consensus on the cut-off physiotherapists use to apply these criteria.		[Sayer, Timothy A.; Jackson, Jeremy; Cross, Nicholas] Melbourne CBD Physiotherapy & Sports Med Clin, 179 Queen St, Melbourne, Vic 3000, Australia; [Sayer, Timothy A.; Bryant, Adam] Univ Melbourne, Dept Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [van Melick, Nicky; Bogie, Rob] Anna Hosp, Sports & Orthoped Res Ctr, Geldrop, Netherlands; [Riera, Jerome; Edouard, Pascal; Rambaud, Alexandre] Ctr Hop Univ St Etienne, St Etienne, France; [Sayer, Timothy A.] Melbourne CBD Physiotherapy & Sports Med Clin, 179 Queen St, Melbourne, Vic 3000, Australia								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001202452700001	17	Article; Article		
J	Conway Kleven, Brooke; Chien, Lung-Chang; Young, Daniel L.; Cross, Chad L.; Labus, Brian; Bernick, Charles								Repetitive head impacts among professional fighters: a pilot study evaluating Traumatic Encephalopathy Syndrome and postural balance								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	5			513	519		10.1080/00913847.2024.2325331			SEP 2 2024	2024	ObjectivesClinical criteria for Traumatic Encephalopathy Syndrome (ccTES) were developed for research purposes to reflect the clinical symptoms of Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE). The aims of this study were to 1) determine whether there was an association between the research diagnosis of TES and impaired postural balance among retired professional fighters, and 2) determine repetitive head impacts (RHI) exposure thresholds among both TES positive and TES negative groups in retired professional fighters when evaluating for balance impairment.MethodsThis was a pilot study evaluating postural balance among participants of the Professional Athletes Brain Health Study (PABHS). Among the cohort, 57 retired professional fighters met the criteria for inclusion in this study. A generalized linear model with generalized estimating equations was used to compare various balance measures longitudinally between fighters with and without TES.ResultsA significant association was observed between a TES diagnosis and worsening performance on double-leg balance assessments when stratifying by RHI exposure thresholds. Additionally, elevated exposure to RHI was significantly associated with increased odds of developing TES; The odds for TES diagnosis were 563% (95% CI = 113, 1963; p-value = 0.0011) greater among athletes with 32 or more professional fights compared to athletes with less than 32 fights when stratifying by balance measures. Likewise, the odds for TES diagnosis were 43% (95% CI = 10, 102; p-value = 0.0439) greater with worsening double leg stance balance in athletes exposed to 32 or more fights.ConclusionThis pilot study provides preliminary evidence of a relationship between declining postural balance and a TES diagnosis among retired professional fighters with elevated RHI exposure. Further research exploring more complex assessments such as the Functional Gait Assessment may be of benefit to improve clinical understanding of the relationship between TES, RHI, and balance.		[Conway Kleven, Brooke] Univ Nevada, Sports Innovat Inst, Las Vegas, NV USA; [Conway Kleven, Brooke; Chien, Lung-Chang; Cross, Chad L.; Labus, Brian] Univ Nevada, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Epidemiol & Biostat, Las Vegas, NV USA; [Young, Daniel L.] Univ Nevada, Sch Integrated Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Las Vegas, NV USA; [Bernick, Charles] Cleveland Clin, Lou Ruvo Ctr Brain Hlth, Dept Neurol, Las Vegas, NV USA; [Conway Kleven, Brooke] Univ Nevada, Sports Innovat Inst, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Conway Kleven, Brooke] Univ Nevada, Sports Innovat Inst, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001179884300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Drury, B.; Singh, H.; Larkin, H.; Behm, D.; Protheroe, L.; Moran, J.								Influence of different verbal cue types on countermovement jump performance in youth female athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2164	2172		10.1177/17479541241236672			OCT 2024	2024	Although external (EXT) verbal cues have been shown to improve jump performance, limited research has been conducted in youth athletes. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate how different EXT verbal cue types influenced countermovement jump (CMJ) performance in youth athletes. Ten young trained female athletes (16.80 +/- 0.60 years) performed the CMJ using four different EXT verbal cues including external-distal (DIST), external-proximal (PROX), analogy (ANA) and holistic (HOL) as well as a neutral cue (CON). Jump height, reactive strength index modified (RSIMOD), countermovement depth, jump time and force-time measures from eccentric and concentric CMJ subphases were measured. No significant differences between cue types were found for RSIMOD. ANA resulted in significantly higher jump height compared to CON (g = 0.37). PROX significantly increased jump time (g = 0.60), concentric time (g = 0.47) and braking time (g = 0.52), as well as significantly decreasing eccentric braking mean force (g = 0.43) and eccentric braking rate of force development (g = 0.59) compared to CON. Countermovement depth significantly increased when using PROX (g = 0.60), HOL (g = 0.46) and ANA (g = 0.51) compared to CON. These results suggest that compared to a neutral cue, EXT verbal cues result in similar CMJ performance in trained youth athletes. However, PROX verbal cues appear to result in reduced performance in many CMJ force-time measures.		[Drury, B.; Larkin, H.; Protheroe, L.] Hartpury Univ, Dept Appl Sport Sci, Hartpury, Glos, England; [Singh, H.] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Singh, H.] Orlando Mag Basketball Club, Orlando, FL USA; [Behm, D.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Moran, J.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Drury, B.] Hartpury Univ, Dept Appl Sport Sci, Hartpury, Glos, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001180106000001	64	Article; Article		
J	Losak, Jeremy M.; Posmanick, Benjamin J.; Sauer, Raymond D.								On the Value of a Premium College Football Player: Evaluating the Literature								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	4			472	506		10.1177/15270025241233553			MAY 2024	2024	Over the past decade, the issue of player compensation in college sports has been the subject of several successful legal challenges. Athletes contend that the compensation they receive falls significantly short of the value they generate, attributing this gap to unlawful National Collegiate Athletic Association restrictions. Numerous tools exist in the sports economic literature that estimate the value of college athletes, with an emphasized focus toward premium college football players. In addition to providing updated estimate of player marginal revenue product (MRP), we review past and contemporary methodologies for estimating college player MRPs. We contend that, while presenting some evidence that restrictions on player compensation resulted in the extraction of the majority of the value generated by top college athletes, existing methods leave considerable uncertainty over the magnitude of exploitation.		[Losak, Jeremy M.] Syracuse Univ, David B Falk Coll Sport & Human Dynam, 318 MacNuaghton Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA; [Posmanick, Benjamin J.] St Bonaventure Univ, Dept Finance, St Bonaventure, NY USA; [Sauer, Raymond D.] Clemson Univ, John E Walker Dept Econ, Clemson, SC USA; [Losak, Jeremy M.] Syracuse Univ, David B Falk Coll Sport & Human Dynam, 318 MacNuaghton Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001177723600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Furuhashi, Yuki; Yoshida, Takuya; Ota, Kazuki; Muratomi, Kotaro; Hayashi, Ryohei; Tanigawa, Satoru; Maemura, Hirohiko								Effects of attentional focus strategy on drop jump for athletes with different experience levels: Performance, kinetics and kinematics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2152	2163		10.1177/17479541241236072			OCT 2024	2024	The attentional focus strategy (AFS) affects drop jump (DJ) performance; however, its effects on DJ kinetics and kinematics are unclear. This study examines the effects of AFS on DJ performance, kinetics and kinematics. Forty collegiate males were divided into a DJ experienced group and a DJ inexperienced group, and they performed two trials of DJs after listening to instructions designed to elicit internal (INT), external (EXT) or neutral (NEUT) focus of attention. In the experienced group, the reactive strength index (RSI) was larger with the NEUT than with the INT. Hip joint torque and positive hip joint power in the concentric phase was smaller with the NEUT than with the INT, and the hip joint angle at the lowest centre of mass was larger with the NEUT than with the INT (p < .05). In the inexperienced group, RSI was larger with the EXT than with the INT. Further, the hip joint torque in the concentric phase was smaller with the EXT than with the INT; positive ankle joint power was larger with the EXT than with the INT; and the hip joint angles at the lowest centre of mass and take-off were larger with the EXT than with the INT (p < .05). These results showed that the AFS affected the DJ performance, kinetics and kinematics and suggested that effective DJ training may be achieved with the NEUT for DJ experienced and with the EXT for DJ inexperienced.		[Furuhashi, Yuki; Ota, Kazuki; Muratomi, Kotaro] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058574, Japan; [Yoshida, Takuya] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Hayashi, Ryohei] Gifu Univ, Fac Educ, Gifu, Japan; [Tanigawa, Satoru; Maemura, Hirohiko] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Furuhashi, Yuki] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058574, Japan								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001179411700001	54	Article; Article		
J	Bagehorn, Timo; Bill, Kevin; Mai, Patrick; Krosshaug, Tron; Kersting, Uwe G.								A biomechanical report of an acute lateral ankle sprain during a handball-specific cutting movement								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3358	3374		10.1080/14763141.2024.2319134			NOV 2 2025	2025	Biomechanical measurements of accidental ankle sprain injuries are rare but make important contributions to a more detailed understanding of the injury mechanism. In this case study, we present the kinematics and kinetics of a lateral ankle sprain of a female athlete performing handball-specific fake-and-cut manoeuvres. Three-dimensional kinematics and kinetics were recorded and six previously performed trials were used as reference. Plantarflexion, inversion, and internal rotation angles were substantially larger than the reference trials and peaked between 190 and 200 ms after initial ground contact. We observed a highly increased inversion and internal rotation moment. However, compared to the non-injury trials the data also revealed a reduction in the second dorsiflexion moment peak. Ground reaction forces were lower throughout the injury trial. Other parameters at initial ground contact including ankle and hip position, step length, and the traction coefficient indicate that a preparatory maladjustment occurred. This study adds valuable contributions to the understanding of lateral ankle sprains by building upon previously published reports and considering the shoe-surface interaction as an important factor for injury.		[Bagehorn, Timo; Kersting, Uwe G.] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, ExerciseTech, Aalborg, Denmark; [Bill, Kevin; Mai, Patrick; Kersting, Uwe G.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany; [Mai, Patrick] Offenburg Univ, Inst Adv Biomech & Mot Studies, Offenburg, Germany; [Mai, Patrick; Krosshaug, Tron] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Sports Med, Oslo, Norway; [Bagehorn, Timo] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, ExerciseTech, Aalborg, Denmark								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001176743400001	34	Article; Article		
J	Stastny, Petr; Kolinger, Dominik; Pisz, Anna; Wilk, Michal; Petruzela, Jan; Krzysztofik, Michal								Effects of Eccentric Speed during Front Squat Conditioning Activity on Post-activation Performance Enhancement of Hip and Thigh Muscles								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			5	18		10.5114/jhk/183917			MAR 2024	2024	The phenomenon of post-activation performance enhancement plays an unidentified role in movement eccentric speed and individual muscle group responses. Therefore, this study aimed to determine whether the loaded front squat (FSq) speed of the eccentric phase would influence the post-activation performance enhancement effect and whether the FSq would elicit similar performance enhancement of knee flexion, knee extension, hip flexion, and hip extension muscles. Twenty resistance-trained handball players performed the FSq under maximum eccentric-concentric speed and 2-s eccentric speed (only the eccentric phase performed), while pre- and post-front squat countermovement jump, knee, and hip isokinetic flexion/extension performance were tested. The FSq conditioning activity was performed in a single set of three repetitions with either 90% (maximum eccentric-concentric speed) or 120% (2-s eccentric speed) of one repetition maximum, and post-performance was measured 4-12 min after the FSq. Athletes randomly changed the FSq eccentric speed and tested the hip or knee isokinetic flexion/extension strength at 180 degrees/s. ANOVA showed that the rate of force development during the jump increased (Cohen d = 0.59-0.77) with no differences between 2-s eccentric and maximum speed eccentric protocols. Isokinetic strength increased after the 2-s eccentric FSq in hip extension (d = 0.76-0.86), knee flexion (d = 0.74-0.88), and hip flexion (d = 0.82), with no differences in knee extension strength. After maximum eccentric-concentric speed, isokinetic strength increased in hip extension (d = 1.25). In conclusion, the FSq conditioning activity enhances hip extensors' performance more than knee extensors' performance. Different eccentric types of muscle action during a conditioning activity alter the level of local muscle enhancement.		[Stastny, Petr; Kolinger, Dominik; Pisz, Anna; Wilk, Michal; Petruzela, Jan] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Wilk, Michal; Krzysztofik, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100004	46	Article; Article		
J	Suchomel, Timothy J.; Cantwell, Conor J.; Campbell, Brookelyn A.; Schroeder, Zachary S.; Marshall, Lauren K.; Taber, Christopher B.								Braking and Propulsion Phase Characteristics of Traditional and Accentuated Eccentric Loaded Back Squats								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			121	133		10.5114/jhk/185726			MAR 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to examine the differences in braking and propulsion force -time characteristics and barbell velocity between traditional (TRAD) and accentuated eccentric loaded (AEL) back squats using various load combinations. Sixteen resistance -trained men participated in four separate testing sessions which included a one repetition maximum (1RM) back squat during the first session and three squat testing sessions. During the squat testing sessions, participants either performed sets of three repetitions of TRAD back squats each with 50, 60, 70, and 80% 1RM or performed the same loads with the addition of weight releasers that increased the total eccentric weight of the first repetition of each set to either 100 (AEL-MAX) or 110% 1RM (AEL-SUPRA). Braking and propulsion mean force, duration, and impulse as well as mean and peak barbell velocity were compared between each condition and load. Significantly greater braking impulses were produced during the AEL-MAX and AEL-SUPRA conditions compared to TRAD (p < 0.03) with small -moderate effect sizes favoring AEL-SUPRA. No other significant differences existed among conditions for other braking, propulsion, or barbell velocity variables. AEL-MAX and AEL-SUPRA back squats may provide a greater braking stimulus compared to TRAD squats; however, the propulsion phase of the movement does not appear to be impacted. From a loading standpoint, larger and smaller load spreads may favor rapid and maximal force production characteristics, respectively. Further research on this topic is needed as a large portion of the braking stimulus experienced during AEL back squats may be influenced by relative strength.		[Suchomel, Timothy J.; Cantwell, Conor J.; Campbell, Brookelyn A.; Schroeder, Zachary S.; Marshall, Lauren K.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Cantwell, Conor J.] Univ Wisconsin Platteville, Dept Athlet, Platteville, WI USA; [Campbell, Brookelyn A.] Univ Houston, Dept Athlet, Houston, TX USA; [Schroeder, Zachary S.] Morningside Univ, Dept Athlet, Sioux City, IA USA; [Marshall, Lauren K.] Movement Fitness Rockford, Dept Fitness, Rockford, IL USA; [Taber, Christopher B.] Sacred Heart Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Fairfield, CT USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Manchester, Lancs, England								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100010	30	Article; Article		
J	Viramontes, Erika; Dawes, J. Jay; Coburn, Jared W.; Lockie, Robert G.								Strength Training Frequency and Athletic Performance in High School Girls Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			19	31		10.5114/jhk/184042			MAR 2024	2024	This study investigated the effects of a six-week strength training intervention on the physical fitness of female high school athletes, with a focus on training frequency. Twenty-three female high school basketball athletes were recruited and split into two groups: one group participated in strength training once per week (S1), while the other participated in two training sessions per week (S2). The groups were not random as training sessions were voluntary, and some participants were only able to train once per week. Participants were tested before and after the intervention, and the data included: age, body height, body mass, body fat percentage, grip strength, leg/back dynamometer (LBD) strength, a seated medicine ball throw (MBT), a vertical jump (VJ), 505 tests from each foot, 0-5, 0-10, and 0-20 sprint times, and multistage fitness test shuttles. Data were analyzed by a two (time) x two (group) repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA; p < 0.05). When significant F ratios were detected in any ANOVA calculations, post hoc pairwise comparisons were conducted using the Bonferroni adjustment procedure. There were significant main effects for time that indicated the following: increased body height, body mass, grip strength, LBD strength, MBT distance, and VJ height, faster 505 times, and slower 0-5 and 0-10 m sprint times (p <= 0.021). There were no significant time by group ANOVAs or betweengroup main effects. These performance changes occurred irrespective of training frequency. High school girls who participate in at least one strength training session per week can improve their strength (grip, LBD), power (MBT, VJ), and change-of-direction speed (505).		[Viramontes, Erika; Coburn, Jared W.; Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Dawes, J. Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK USA; [Dawes, J. Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Tact Fitness & Nutr Lab, Stillwater, OK USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100003	42	Article; Article		
J	Paoli, Antonio; Cerullo, Giuseppe; Bianco, Antonino; Neri, Marco; Gennaro, Federico; Charrier, Davide; Moro, Tatiana								Not Only Protein: Dietary Supplements to Optimize the Skeletal Muscle Growth Response to Resistance Training: The Current State of Knowledge								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			225	244		10.5114/jhk/186660			MAR 2024	2024	Regarding skeletal muscle hypertrophy, resistance training and nutrition, the most often discussed and proposed supplements include proteins. Although, the correct amount, quality, and daily distribution of proteins is of paramount importance for skeletal muscle hypertrophy, there are many other nutritional supplements that can help and support the physiological response of skeletal muscle to resistance training in terms of muscle hypertrophy. A healthy muscle environment and a correct whole muscle metabolism response to the stress of training is a prerequisite for the increase in muscle protein synthesis and, therefore, muscle hypertrophy. In this review, we discuss the role of different nutritional supplements such as carbohydrates, vitamins, minerals, creatine, omega -3, polyphenols, and probiotics as a support and complementary factors to the main supplement i.e., protein. The different mechanisms are discussed in the light of recent evidence.		[Paoli, Antonio; Cerullo, Giuseppe; Gennaro, Federico; Charrier, Davide; Moro, Tatiana] Univ Padua, Dept Biomed Sci, Padua, Italy; [Bianco, Antonino] Univ Palermo, Dept Psychol Educ Sci & Human Movement, Palermo, Italy; [Neri, Marco] Italian Fitness Federat, Ravenna, Italy; [Paoli, Antonio] Univ Padua, Dept Biomed Sci, Padua, Italy								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100005	94	Article; Article		
J	Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Moura, Tulio B. M. A.; Mercer, Valter P.; Betelli, Marina T.; Ramos, Mauricio S.; Zabaloy, Santiago; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando								Jump Squats Performed with Both Light and Heavy Loads Have Similar Effects on the Physical Performance of Elite Rugby Players during the Initial Phase of the Competitive Period								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			175	188		10.5114/jhk/186340			MAR 2024	2024	We examined the effectiveness of two different jump -squat (JS) loading ranges on the physical performance of rugby players. Twenty-eight elite male rugby players were divided into two JS training groups: a light -load JS group ("LJS"; JS at 40% of the one -repetition maximum [1RM] in the half -squat (HS) exercise) and a heavy -load JS group ("HJS"; JS at 80% HS-1RM). Players completed the distinct training programs over four weeks, three times per week, during the initial phase of the competitive period. Pre- and post -training tests were conducted in the following sequence: vertical jumps, a 30-m speed test, peak power in the JS and the HS, and maximum isometric force in the HS. Additionally, the rating of perceived exertion (RPE) was assessed at the end of all training sessions throughout the intervention. A twoway ANOVA with repeated measures, followed by the Tukey's post -hoc test, was employed to analyze differences between groups. The level of significance was set at p < 0.05. Effect sizes were used to assess the magnitude of differences between pre- and post -training data. Except for the RPE values (which were lower in the LJS group), no significant changes were detected for any other variable. In summary, using either a light- (40% HS-1RM) or a heavy -load (80% HS-1RM) JS during the initial phase of the competitive period is equally effective in maintaining physical performance levels attained during the preceding training period (pre -season), with the significant advantage of the light -load protocol resulting in lower levels of the RPE. This finding may have important implications for resistance training programming, especially in disciplines where acute and chronic fatigue is always a problematic issue.		[Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Moura, Tulio B. M. A.; Mercer, Valter P.; Betelli, Marina T.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Fed Univ Silo Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Silo Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Dept Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Pontypridd, Wales; [Betelli, Marina T.; Ramos, Mauricio S.] CBRu Brazilian Rugby Confederat, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Zabaloy, Santiago] Univ Flores, Fac Phys Act & Sports, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Pareja-Blanco, Fernando] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Pareja-Blanco, Fernando] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Fed Univ Silo Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Silo Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Dept Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Pontypridd, Wales								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Mastalerz, Andrzej; Johne, Monika; Mroz, Anna; Bojarczuk, Aleksandra; Stastny, Petr; Petr, Miroslav; Kolinger, Dominik; Pisz, Anna; Vostatkova, Pavlina; Maculewicz, Ewelina								Changes of Anaerobic Power and Lactate Concentration following Intense Glycolytic Efforts in Elite and Sub-Elite 400-meter Sprinters								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			165	174		10.5114/jhk/186074			MAR 2024	2024	400-m races are based on anaerobic energy metabolism, they induce significant muscle fatigue, muscle fiber damage, and high blood lactate (LA) concentration. Despite extensive research on sprint training, our understanding of the training process that leads to world-class sprint performance is rather limited. This study aimed to determine differences in LA concentration and anaerobic power using jumping tests after an intense glycolytic effort in a group of elite and sub-elite 400-m runners. One hundred thirty male runners were divided into two groups: elite (n = 66, body mass = 73.4 +/- 7.8 kg, body height = 182.1 +/- 6.2 cm, age = 20.8 +/- 4.0 y) running the 400-m dash below 50 s and sub-elite (n = 64, body mass = 72.0 +/- 7.1 kg, body height = 182.1 +/- 5.2 cm, age = 20.8 +/- 4.0 y) with a 400-m personal best above 50 s. The power of the countermovement and the sequential squat jumps was measured in two sets after a warm-up, followed by two intermittent 30-s Wingate tests. LA concentration was measured eight times. It was observed that elite athletes achieved significantly higher power in both types of jumps. The maximum post-exercise LA concentration was significantly lower in the sub-elite group after the 3rd, the 6th, the 9th, and the 20th min after the cessation of two Wingate tests (p < 0.001). The rate of LA accumulation after exercise and the rate of LA utilization did not differ between the groups. It can be concluded that elite and non-elite runners differ in higher LA production but not in LA utilization. Anaerobic power and LA concentration seem to differentiate between 400 elite and sub-elite performance.		[Mastalerz, Andrzej; Johne, Monika; Mroz, Anna; Maculewicz, Ewelina] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Bojarczuk, Aleksandra] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Stastny, Petr; Petr, Miroslav; Kolinger, Dominik; Pisz, Anna; Vostatkova, Pavlina] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Maculewicz, Ewelina] Mil Inst Aviat Med, Dept Lab Diagnost, Warsaw, Poland; [Maculewicz, Ewelina] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Maculewicz, Ewelina] Mil Inst Aviat Med, Dept Lab Diagnost, Warsaw, Poland								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100002	35	Article; Article		
J	Tsoukos, Athanasios; Krzysztofik, Michal; Wilk, Michal; Zajac, Adam; Panagiotopoulos, Michail G.; Psarras, Ilias-Iason; Petraki, Despina P.; Terzis, Gerasimos; Bogdanis, Gregory C.								Fatigue and Metabolic Responses during Repeated Sets of Bench Press Exercise to Exhaustion at Different Ranges of Motion								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			61	76		10.5114/jhk/185524			MAR 2024	2024	This study compared the acute effects of different ranges of motion (ROM) on fatigue and metabolic responses during repeated sets of bench press exercise. Ten resistance trained men performed three sets to momentary failure with two-min rest intervals at three different ROM: full ROM (FULL), and partial ROM in which the barbell was moved either at the bottom half (BOTTOM) or the top half (TOP) of the full barbell vertical displacement. In TOP, a higher load was lifted, and a higher total number of repetitions was performed compared to FULL and BOTTOM (130 +/- 17.6 vs. 102.5 +/- 15.9 vs. 98.8 +/- 17.5 kg; 55.2 +/- 9.8, 32.2 +/- 6.5 vs. 49.1 +/- 16.5 kg, respectively p < 0.01). Work per repetition was higher in FULL than TOP and BOTTOM (283 +/- 43 vs. 205 +/- 32 vs. 164 +/- 31 J/repetition, p < 0.01). Mean barbell velocity at the start of set 1 was 21.7% and 12.8% higher in FULL compared to TOP and BOTTOM, respectively. The rate of decline in mean barbell velocity was doubled from set 1 to set 3 (p < 0.01) and was higher in FULL than both TOP and BOTTOM (p < 0.001). Also, the rate of mean barbell velocity decline was higher in BOTTOM compared to TOP (p = 0.045). Blood lactate concentration was similarly increased in all ROM (p < 0.001). Training at TOP ROM allowed not only to lift a higher load, but also to perform more repetitions with a lower rate of decline in mean barbell velocity. Despite the lower absolute load and work per repetition, fatigue was higher in BOTTOM than TOP and this may be attributed to differences in muscle length.		[Tsoukos, Athanasios; Panagiotopoulos, Michail G.; Psarras, Ilias-Iason; Petraki, Despina P.; Terzis, Gerasimos; Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece; [Krzysztofik, Michal; Wilk, Michal; Zajac, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100008	64	Article; Article		
J	Tsoukos, Athanasios; Wilk, Michal; Krzysztofik, Michal; Zajac, Adam; Bogdanis, Gregory C.								The Impact of Range of Motion on Applied Force Characteristics and Electromyographic Activity during Repeated Sets of Bench Press Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				91	1			189	204		10.5114/jhk/186341			MAR 2024	2024	This study examined the effects of range of motion (ROM) on applied force, power output and surface electromyographic (sEMG) responses during repeated sets of bench press exercise executed as fast as possible. Ten resistance trained men performed three sets to momentary failure with two-min rest intervals under three different ROM conditions: (a) full ROM (FULL), (b) TOP, at the top half of ROM, and (c) BOTTOM, at the bottom half of ROM. Mean and peak force were higher in TOP compared to FULL and BOTTOM (mean force: 817 +/- 80 vs. 657 +/- 98 vs. 623 +/- 122 N, respectively, p < 0.001) with no differences between FULL and BOTTOM. During repeated sets, large decreases were found in peak (by 29.4 to 45.3%) and mean power (by 55.5 to 64.7%) from the first to the last repetitions. However, the decrease in mean force was only 2% (p < 0.01) and decreases in peak force ranged from 6.7 and 8.8% to zero, indicating the velocity loss was the main contributor to fatigue in power output. Although force and power output in set 3 were unchanged in BOTTOM, mean power output decreased significantly, suggesting that lower performance and fatigue may be related to the longer muscle length. Fatigue was accompanied by an increase in sEMG activity and a decrease in median frequency in all muscles, with triceps brachialis sEMG reflecting more the force and power differences among ROMs. In conclusion, fatigue depends on velocity rather than force loss during bench press exercise at different ROMs.		[Tsoukos, Athanasios; Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece; [Wilk, Michal; Krzysztofik, Michal; Zajac, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207653100009	46	Article; Article		
J	Weatherwax, Ryan M.; Nelson, Megan C.; Dalleck, Lance C.								The Impact of Personalized versus Standardized Cardiorespiratory and Muscular Training on Health-Related Outcomes and Rate of Responders								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			209	218		10.52082/jssm.2024.209			MAR 2024	2024	Recent research has shown more favorable training adaptations for inactive adults when cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) exercise is prescribed with the use of ventilatory thresholds compared to percentages of heart rate reserve (HRR). However, there is limited research on changes in health -related outcomes with the use of these CRF methods in combination with muscular fitness exercises. The objective of this study was to compare the effectiveness of two training programs for improving CRF, muscular fitness, and cardiometabolic risk factors. Inactive men and women (n=109, aged 49.3 +/- 15.5 years) were randomized to a non -exercise control group or one of two exercise training groups. The exercise training groups consisted of 13 weeks of structured exercise with progression using either CRF exercise prescribed with the use of ventilatory thresholds and functional training for muscular fitness (THRESH group) or HRR and traditional muscular fitness training (STND group). After the 13 -week protocol, there were significant differences in body weight, body composition, systolic blood pressure, high -density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c), VO2max, 5 -repetition maximum (RM) bench press, and 5-RM leg press for both treatment groups compared to the control group after controlling for baseline values. However, the THRESH group had significantly more desirable outcomes for VO2max, 5-RM bench press, 5-RM leg press, body composition, and HDL-c when compared to both the STND and control group. Additionally, the proportion of individuals estimated as likely to respond above 3.5 mL center dot kg-1 center dot min-1 in VO2max (i.e., the minimal clinically important difference) was 76.4%, 20.8%, and 0.13% for the THRESH, STND, and control groups, respectively. While both exercise programs elicited favorable health -related adaptations after 13 weeks, these results suggest that a personalized program with exercise prescribed based on ventilatory threshold and with the use of functional muscular fitness training may yield greater training adaptations.		[Weatherwax, Ryan M.] Southern Oregon Univ, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Ashland, OR 97520 USA; [Nelson, Megan C.] Northern Michigan Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Marquette, MI USA; [Dalleck, Lance C.] Western Colorado Univ, Recreat Exercise & Sport Sci Dept, Gunnison, CO USA; [Weatherwax, Ryan M.] Southern Oregon Univ, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Ashland, OR 97520 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001171463400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Liu, GuiYang; Wang, XiaoShuang; Xu, Qi								Supervised Offseason Training Programs are able to mitigate the Effects of Detraining in Youth Men Soccer Players Physical Fitness: A Randomized Parallel Controlled Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE											10.52082/jssm.2024.219				2024	This study aimed to analyze the effects of three off-season training programs on the aerobic capacity, countermovement jump (CMJ), and linear sprint performance of young male soccer players. The study employed a randomized multi-arm design, consisting of three experimental groups: i) a high-intensity interval training (HIIT) group; (ii) a plyometric jump training (PJT) group; and (iii) a HIIT+PJT group; and an inactive control group. Fifty-eight under-19 male soccer players (aged 17.6 +/- 0.6 years) were randomly assigned to participate in a 3-week offseason training program exclusively performing HIIT, PJT, or a combination of both, while the fourth group remained inactive. Players underwent assessments twice, using the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test - Level 1 (YYIRT), CMJ, and 30-meter linear sprint. Significant interactions between time and groups were found in CMJ (p<0.001), YYIRT (p<0.001), and 30-m sprint (p<0.001). Group*time interaction revealed that the control group was significantly different from HIIT (p<0.001), PJT (p<0.001), and HIIT+PJT (p<0.001) considering the CMJ. Moreover, the control group was significantly different from HIIT (p=0.037) in YYIRT. Finally, the control group was significantly different from HIIT (p=0.024), PJT (p<0.001), and HIIT+PJT (p=0.021) considering the 30-m sprint. In conclusion, off-season training programs are effective in significantly reducing declines in CMJ and sprint performance compared to maintaining training cessation. However, in the YYIRT, only HIIT seems to be significantly superior to maintaining inactivity. To mitigate aerobic performance declines, incorporating HIIT sessions twice weekly during the offseason is advisable. To enhance or maintain jump performance, integrating at least one session of PJT weekly is beneficial.		[Liu, GuiYang] Udon Thani Rajabhat Univ, Phys Educ & Hlth Educ, 64 Thaharn Rd, Muang 41000, Udon Thani, Thailand; [Wang, XiaoShuang] Chizhou Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Chizhou 247000, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Xu, Qi] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Wang, XiaoShuang] Chizhou Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Chizhou 247000, Anhui, Peoples R China								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001171347500001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Moreno-Heredero, Berta; Morencos, Esther; Morais, Jorge; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Veiga, Santiago								A Single Dose of Beetroot Juice not Enhance Performance during Intervallic Swimming Efforts								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			228	235		10.52082/jssm.2024.228			MAR 2024	2024	Despite the numerous scientific evidence on the topic, there is no clear and consistent answer that clarifies the true effects of beetroot juice (BJ) supplementation on different types of physical performance. This study examined whether an acute intake of BJ improves swimming performance, physiological variables of anaerobic metabolism, or subjective measures during high-intensity interval exercise with incomplete rest in competitive swimmers. Eighteen competitive swimmers (nine females and nine males) participated in this cross-over randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind and counterbalanced study. In two trials, swimmers ingested BJ (70 mL, 6.4 mmol/400 mg NO3-) or placebo (PLA) (70 mL, 0.04 mmol/3 mg NO3-) three hours before a 2x6x100 m maximal effort with 40 seconds rest between repetitions and three minutes between blocks. The 100 m times showed no differences between groups (p > 0.05), but there was an interaction between blockxrepetitionxcondition (F-5 = 3.10; p = 0.046; eta p(2) = 0.54), indicating that the BJ group decreased the time of the sixth repetition of block2 compared to block1 (p = 0.01). Lactate concentration showed no differences between conditions (p > 0.05), but there was a main effect of block (eta p(2) = 0.60) and a blockxrepetition interaction (eta p(2) = 0.70), indicating higher values in block2 and increasing values between repetitions in block1. The subjective scales, perception of exertion (RPE) and Total Quality Recovery (TQR), showed no effects of condition (p > 0.05), but BJ swimmers had a greater TQR in the last repetitions of each block. In conclusion, a single dose of BJ did not enhance intermittent swimming performance or modified the physiological (lactate and heart rate) or subjective (RPE and TQR) variables; although there was a possible positive effect on the exercise tolerance at the end of effort.		[Moreno-Heredero, Berta; Morencos, Esther] Univ Francisco de Vitoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Exercise & Sport Sci, Exercise Physiol Grp, Madrid 28223, Spain; [Moreno-Heredero, Berta; Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid UPM, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain; [Morais, Jorge; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Moreno-Heredero, Berta] Univ Francisco de Vitoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Exercise & Sport Sci, Exercise Physiol Grp, Madrid 28223, Spain								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001178589700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Shen, Siqin; Teng, Jin; Fekete, Gusztav; Mei, Qichang; Zhao, Jia; Yang, Fan; Gu, Yaodong								Influence of Torsional Stiffness in Badminton Footwear on Lower Limb Biomechanics								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			196	208		10.52082/jssm.2024.196			MAR 2024	2024	Torsional stiffness of athletic footwear plays a crucial role in preventing injury and improving sports performance. Yet, there is a lack of research focused on the biomechanical effect of torsional stiffness in badminton shoes. This study aimed to comprehensively investigate the influence of three different levels of torsional stiffness in badminton shoes on biomechanical characteristics, sports performance, and injury risk in badminton players. Fifteen male players, aged 22.8 +/- 1.96 years, participated in the study, performing badminton-specific tasks, including forehand clear stroke [left foot (FCL) and right foot (FCR)], 45-degree sidestep cutting (45C), and consecutive vertical jumps (CVJ). The tasks were conducted wearing badminton shoes of torsional stiffness measured with Shore D hardness 50, 60, and 70 (referred to as 50D, 60D, and 70D, respectively). The primary biomechanical parameters included ankle, knee, and MTP joint kinematics, ankle and knee joint moments, peak ground reaction forces, joint range of motion (ROM), and stance time. A one-way repeated measures ANOVA was employed for normally distributed data and Friedman tests for non-normally distributed data. The 70D shoe exhibited the highest ankle dorsiflexion and lowest ankle inversion peak angles during 45C task. The 60D shoe showed significantly lower knee abduction angle and coronal motions compared to the 50D and 70D shoes. Increased torsional stiffness reduced stance time in the FCR task. No significant differences were observed in anterior -posterior and medial -lateral ground reaction forces (GRF). However, the 70D shoe demonstrated higher vertical GRF than the 50D shoe while performing the FCR task, particularly during 70% - 75% of stance. Findings from this study revealed the significant role of torsional stiffness in reducing injury risk and optimizing performance during badminton tasks, indicating that shoes with an intermediate level of stiffness (60D) could provide a beneficial balance between flexibility and stability. These findings may provide practical references in guiding future badminton shoe research and development. Further research is necessary to explore the long-term effects of altering stiffness, considering factors such as athletic levels and foot morphology, to understand of the influence of torsional stiffness on motion biomechanics and injury prevalence in badminton-specific tasks.		[Shen, Siqin; Mei, Qichang; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Shen, Siqin; Gu, Yaodong] Univ Pannonia, Fac Engn, Veszprem, Hungary; [Shen, Siqin; Fekete, Gusztav; Gu, Yaodong] Szecheny Istvan Univ, Vehicle Ind Res Ctr, Gyor, Hungary; [Teng, Jin] Beijing Sport Univ, Dept Sports Biomech, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Mei, Qichang] Univ Auckland, Auckland Bioengn Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Zhao, Jia; Yang, Fan] Li Ning China Sports Goods Co Ltd, Li Ning Sport Sci Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Mei, Qichang; Yang, Fan] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 818 Fenghua Rd, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Mei, Qichang; Yang, Fan] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 818 Fenghua Rd, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001168073600001	72	Article; Article		
J	Kokstejn, Jakub; Vampola, Jindrich; Musalek, Martin; Grobar, Miroslav; Stastny, Petr								The Ratio between Weekly Training and Match External Physical Loads in U17 Elite Youth Soccer Players: Implications for the Training Process								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			107	113		10.52082/jssm.2024.107			MAR 2024	2024	Research on the external physical load on elite youth soccer players during the weekly training microcycle in competitive periods and official matches is limited. The aims of this study were twofold: a) investigate possible differences in external physical load (PL) across player positions in U17 elite youth soccer players during official matches; b) determine the weekly training to match physical load ratio (WTMLr) across player positions. The sample included 20 outfield players from an elite soccer academy (mean age 15.94 +/- 0.25 years) playing in four positions: central defender (CD), full-back (FB), central midfielder (CM) and Striker (S). Data were collected during the spring in-season period for 17 official matches played in a 4-3-3 game format. Indicators of external physical load monitored were: total distance (TD); total distance in high-speed running (HSR; > 16.1 km.h(-1)); total distance in sprint running (SPR; > 21.6 km.h(-1)); and relative physical load intensity (%HSR). The WTMLr was calculated for TD, HSR, SPR and %HSR as the ratio of the average weekly sum of training PL to the average sum of PL in an official match for a given players' position. Collectively, the training intensity during a one-week microcycle (%HSR in WTMLr) achieved only 76 % of match demands. CD performed significantly lower in all measured indicators of external PL during the official match than all other positions (p < 0.05; g > 0.80) except for TD in S. S achieved significantly higher SPR during official matches compared to CD (p < 0.05; g > 0.80), CM, and FB (g > 0.80). In contrast, CD reported higher WTMLr (medium-large effect size) in HSR and SPR indicators than all other positions. CM performed significantly higher %HSR in WTMLr than S and FB (p < 0.05; g > 0.80). Results revealed insufficient training intensity relative to match demands and, at the same time, weekly training PL did not meet match demands (especially in HSR and SPR) for players across the different positions. Therefore, practitioners should select appropriate training methods (drills and games) to ensure sufficient training intensity (HSR and SR metrics) and consider using the WTMLr, which can be used to help optimise and individualise training PL for different player positions.		[Kokstejn, Jakub; Vampola, Jindrich; Grobar, Miroslav; Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Musalek, Martin] Charles Univ Prague, Fdn Kinanthropol, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Social Sci, Prague, Czech Republic; [Kokstejn, Jakub] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Jose Martiho 269-31, Prague 6, Czech Republic; [Kokstejn, Jakub] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Jose Martiho 269-31, Prague 6, Czech Republic								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001165137200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Tian, Jian; Miao, Miao								How Does Altering the Volume-Load of Plyometric Exercises Affect the Inflam-matory Response, Oxidative Stress, and Muscle Damage in Male Soccer Players?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			97	106		10.52082/jssm.2024.97			MAR 2024	2024	Incorporating plyometric exercises (PE) into soccer players' conditioning routines is vital for boosting their performance. Nevertheless, the effects of PE sessions with diverse volume loads on inflammation, oxidative stress, and muscle damage are not yet clearly understood. This study aimed to examine the effects of altering the volume-loads of PE on indicators of oxidative muscle damage and inflammation. The study involved forty young male soccer players who were randomly assigned to three different volume-loads of PE (Low volume-load [100 jumps]: LVL, n = 10; Moderate volume-load [150 jumps]: MVL, n = 10; and High volume-load [200 jumps]: HVL, n = 10) and a control group (CON = 10). The levels of various biomarkers including delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS), serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), creatine kinase (CK), 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), malondialdehyde (MDA), protein carbonyl (PC), leukocytes, neutrophils, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and C-reactive protein (CRP) were measured at different time points. These measurements were taken at rest, immediately after completion of PE, and 24-, 48-, and 72-hours post-PE. The CK, LDH, DOMS, 8-OHdG, MDA, and PC levels were significantly increased (p < 0.05) after the PE protocol, reaching their peak values between 24 to 48 hours post-PE for all the volume-loaded groups. The levels of leukocytes, neutrophils, and IL-6 also increased after the PE session but returned to resting values within 24 hours post-PE. On the other hand, CRP levels increased at 24 hours post-PE for all the treatment groups (p < 0.05). The changes observed in the indicators of muscle damage and inflammation in response to different volume-loads of PE was not significant. However, the HVL and MVL indicated significant differences compared to LVL in the 8-OHdG (at 48-hour) and MDA (at 72-hour). Athletes engaging in higher volume-loads demonstrated more pronounced responses in terms of biochemical variables (specifically, LVL < MVL < HVL); however, these changes were not statistically significant (except 8-OHdG and MDA).		[Tian, Jian; Miao, Miao] Henan Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Kaifeng, Peoples R China; [Miao, Miao] Henan Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Kaifeng, Peoples R China								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001165140500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Croteau, Felix; Lanoe, Elouan; Clement, Julien								Analysis of Pushing Forces During the Water Polo Eggbeater: Reliability and Validity of a Novel Approach								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			147	155		10.52082/jssm.2024.147			MAR 2024	2024	Water polo players benefit from greater odds of success when maintaining their tactical position against their opponents. This study evaluated the reliability and validity of a water-based resistance test to replicate this skill.Thirty-three water polo players participated in this study (19 males and 14 females, 14 from senior and 19 from junior national teams). Data were collected during two regular training sessions, separated by one week, using a load cell to instrument a weight stack resistance setup on the pool deck. Performance parameters such as mean force, maximum force, mean peak force and total impulse were defined with custom Python scripts. Test-retest reliability was assessed using intra-class correlations (ICC3,1). Group comparisons were explored between male and female players. Level of significance was set at p < 0.05. The reliability findings were high to very high for the and total impulse (ICC 0.85 - 0.93, p < 0.01). Group comparisons showed significantly greater values in male players for these variables (p < 0.01, ES = 1.05 - 9.36) with large to very large effect testing apparatus presented in this study can readily be replicated group of water polo players.		[Croteau, Felix; Lanoe, Elouan; Clement, Julien] Inst Natl sport Quebec, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Croteau, Felix; Clement, Julien] Water Polo Canada, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Croteau, Felix] McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Lanoe, Elouan; Clement, Julien] Ecole Technol Super, Dept Genie Syst, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Croteau, Felix] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, 4141 Ave Pierre de Coubertin, Montreal, PQ H4V 1N7, Canada; [Croteau, Felix] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, 4141 Ave Pierre de Coubertin, Montreal, PQ H4V 1N7, Canada								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001162983200001	48	Article; Article		
J	Mayorga-Vega, Daniel; Casado-Robles, Carolina; Guijarro-Romero, Santiago; Viciana, Jesus								Criterion-Related Validity of Consumer-Wearable Activity Trackers for Estimating Steps in Primary Schoolchildren under Controlled Conditions: Fit-Person Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			79	96		10.52082/jssm.2024.79			MAR 2024	2024	The purposes were to examine the criterion-related validity of the steps estimated by consumer-wearable activity trackers (wrist-worn activity trackers: Fitbit Ace 2, Garmin Vivofit Jr, and Xiomi Mi Band 5; smartphone applications: Pedometer, Pedometer Pacer Health, and Google Fit/Apple Health) and their comparability in primary schoolchildren under controlled conditions. An initial sample of 66 primary schoolchildren (final sample = 56; 46.4% females), aged 9-12 years old (mean = 10.4 +/- 1.0 years), wore three wrist-worn activity trackers (Fitbit Ace 2, Garmin Vivofit Jr 2, and Xiaomi Mi Band 5) on their non-dominant wrist and had three applications in two smartphones (Pedometer, Pedometer Pacer Health, and Google Fit/Apple Health for An-droid/iOS installed in Samsung Galaxy S20+/iPhone 11 Pro Max) in simulated front trouser pockets. Primary schoolchildren's steps estimated by the consumer-wearable activity trackers and the video-based counting independently by two researchers (gold standard) were recorded while they performed a 200-meter course in slow, normal and brisk pace walking, and running conditions. Results showed that the criterion-related validity of the step scores estimated by the three Samsung applications and the Gar-min Vivofit Jr 2 were good-excellent in the four walking/running conditions (e.g., MAPE = 0.6 -2.3%; lower 95% CI of the ICC = 0.81 -0.99), as well as being comparable. However, the Apple applications, Fitbit Ace 2, and Xiaomi Mi Band 5 showed poor criterion-related validity and comparability on some walking/run-ning conditions (e.g., lower 95% CI of the ICC < 0.70). Although, as in real life primary schoolchildren also place their smartphones in other parts (e.g., schoolbags, hands or even somewhere away from the body), the criterion-related validity of the Garmin Vi-vofit Jr 2 potentially would be considerably higher than that of the Samsung applications. The findings of the present study high-light the potential of the Garmin Vivofit Jr 2 for monitoring primary schoolchildren's steps under controlled conditions.		[Mayorga-Vega, Daniel] Univ Malaga, Fac Ciencias Educ, Dept Didact Lenguas Artes & Deporte, Malaga, Spain; [Casado-Robles, Carolina; Viciana, Jesus] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Guijarro-Romero, Santiago] Univ Valladolid, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Valladolid, Spain; [Guijarro-Romero, Santiago] Univ Valladolid, Fac Educ & Social Work, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Paseo Belen 1, Valladolid 47011, Spain; [Guijarro-Romero, Santiago] Univ Valladolid, Fac Educ & Social Work, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Paseo Belen 1, Valladolid 47011, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001148364000001	49	Article; Article		
J	de Queiros, Victor S.; Rolnick, Nicholas; Sabag, Angelo; Wilde, Phelipe; Pecanha, Thiago; Aniceto, Rodrigo Ramalho; Rocha, Roberto Felipe Camara; Delgado, Douglas Z.; Cabral, Breno Guilherme de Araujo Tinoco; Dantas, Paulo Moreira Silva								Effect of High-Intensity Interval Exercise versus Continuous Low-Intensity Aerobic Exercise with Blood Flow Restriction on Psychophysiological Responses: A Randomized Crossover Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			114	125		10.52082/jssm.2024.114			MAR 2024	2024	This study compared the effect of continuous low-intensity aerobic exercise with blood flow restriction (LI-AE-BFR) versus high-intensity interval exercise (HIIE), matching total external mechanical work between conditions, on perceptual (exertion, pain, affective and pleasure) and physiological responses (heart rate [HR], blood lactate [BL] and muscle fatigue). Ten healthy untrained men (25.6 +/- 3.78 years old; 75.02 +/- 12.02 kg; 172.2 +/- 6.76 cm; 24.95 +/- 3.16 kg/m(2)) completed three visits to the laboratory. In visit 1, anthropometry, blood pressure and peak running velocity on the treadmill were measured. In visits 2 and 3, participants were randomly assigned to HIIE or LI-AE-BFR, both in treadmill. HIIE consisted of 10 one-minute stimuli at 80% of peak running velocity interspersed with one-minute of passive recovery. LI-AE-BFR consisted of 20-minutes of continuous walking at 40% of peak running velocity with bilateral cuffs inflated to 50% of arterial occlusion pressure. BL and maximum isometric voluntary contraction (MIVC -fatigue measure) were measured pre-and immediately post-exercise. HR, rating of perceived exertion (RPE), and rating of perceived pain (RPP) were recorded after each stimulus in HIIE and every two minutes in LI-AE-BFR. Affective response to the session, pleasure, and future intention to exercise (FIE) were assessed 10 minutes after the intervention ended. Increases in BL concentrations were greater in HIIE (p = 0.028; r = 0.51). No effects time or condition were reported for MIVC. HR was higher in HIIE at all analyzed time points (p < 0.001; d = 3.1 to 5.2). RPE did not differ between conditions (p > 0.05), while average session RPP was higher in LI-AE-BFR (p = 0.036; r = 0.46). Affective positive response (p = 0.019; d = 0.9) and FIE (p = 0.013; d = 0.97) were significantly higher in HIIE. Therefore, HIIE elicited higher physiological stress, positive affective response, and intention to engage in future exercise bouts compared to LI-AE-BFR.		[de Queiros, Victor S.; Wilde, Phelipe; Dantas, Paulo Moreira Silva] Fed Univ Rio Grande do Norte UFRN, Grad Program Hlth Sci, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Rolnick, Nicholas] CUNY Lehman Coll, Human Performance Mech, New York, NY USA; [Sabag, Angelo] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Pecanha, Thiago] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Aniceto, Rodrigo Ramalho] Fed Inst Educ Sci & Technol Rio Grande do Norte, Study & Res Grp Biomech & Psychophysiol Exercise, Sci & Technol Rio Grande Norte, Currais Novos, RN, Brazil; [Rocha, Roberto Felipe Camara] Fed Univ Rio Grande do Norte UFRN, Dept Phys Educ, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Delgado, Douglas Z.; Cabral, Breno Guilherme de Araujo Tinoco; Dantas, Paulo Moreira Silva] Fed Univ Rio Grande do Norte UFRN, Grad Program Phys Educ, Natal, RN, Brazil; [de Queiros, Victor S.] Fed Univ Rio Grande do Norte UFRN, Grad Program Hlth Sci, Natal, RN, Brazil								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001154043000001	50	Article; Article		
J	Fischer, Josef; Paternoster, Florian K.								Post-Activation-Performance Enhancement: Possible Contributing Factors								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			34	45		10.52082/jssm.2024.34			MAR 2024	2024	This study aimed to narrow down the possible mechanisms of Post-Activation Performance Enhancement (PAPE), especially if they are exclusively found in the muscle. It was therefore investigated whether (1) the PAPE effect is influenced by neural factors and (2) if Post-Activation-Potentiation (PAP) influences PAPE. Thirteen strength-trained participants (26.5 +/- 3.2 years) took part in at least one of three interventions (PAP, PAPE-Electrical (PAPEE), and PAPE-Voluntary (PAPEV)). Conditioning contractions (CC) and testing involved isometric knee extensions performed on an isokinetic device at an 80 degrees knee flexion angle. The CC was either performed voluntarily (PAP, PAPEV) or was evoked through electrical stimulation (PAPEE). Testing was performed at baseline and after two seconds, four minutes, eight minutes, and twelve minutes of the CC. Maximum voluntary isometric contractions (MVIC) for the PAPE trials and supramaximal twitches for the PAP trial were used for testing. Parameters of interest were peak torque and rate of torque development (RTD), and electromyography (EMG) amplitude of the quadriceps (only PAPE). Repeated measures ANOVA and simple contrast comparisons were used for statistical analysis. Peak torque (p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.715) and RTD (p = 0. 005, eta(2)(p) = 0.570) increased significantly during the PAP protocol immediately two seconds after the CC and decreased to near baseline values for the following time points (p > 0.05). Peak torque, RTD, and peak EMG showed no significant differences during PAPEE and PAPEV trials (p > 0.05). Due to the lack of a visible PAPE effect, the question of whether neural mechanisms influence PAPE can-not be answered. Due to the time course of the PAP analysis, it is questionable if these mechanisms play a role in PAPE. The as-sumption that the PAP mechanism influences PAPE cannot be confirmed for the same reason.		[Fischer, Josef; Paternoster, Florian K.] Tech Univ Munich, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Dept Biomech Sports, Munich, Germany; [Fischer, Josef] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria; [Fischer, Josef] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:001148364400001	65	Article; Article		
J	Dueking, Peter; Sperlich, Billy; Voigt, Laura; Van Hooren, Bas; Zanini, Michele; Zinner, Christoph								ChatGPT Generated Training Plans for Runners are not Rated Optimal by Coaching Experts, but Increase in Quality with Additional Input Information								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			56	72		10.52082/jssm.2024.56			MAR 2024	2024	ChatGPT may be used by runners to generate training plans to enhance performance or health aspects. However, the quality of ChatGPT generated training plans based on different input information is unknown. The objective of the study was to evaluate ChatGPT-generated six-week training plans for runners based on different input information granularity. Three training plans were generated by ChatGPT using different input information granularity. 22 quality criteria for training plans were drawn from the literature and used to evaluate training plans by coaching experts on a 1-5 Likert Scale. A Friedmann test assessed significant differences in quality between training plans. For training plans 1, 2 and 3, a median rating of <3 was given 19, 11, and 1 times, a median rating of 3 was given 3, 5, and 8 times and a median rating of >3 was given 0, 6, 13 times, respectively. Training plan 1 received significantly lower ratings compared to training plan 2 for 3 criteria, and 15 times significantly lower ratings compared to training plan 3 (p < 0.05). Training plan 2 received significantly lower ratings (p < 0.05) compared to plan 3 for 9 criteria. ChatGPT generated plans are ranked sub-optimally by coaching experts, although the quality increases when more input information are provided. An understanding of aspects relevant to programming distance running training is important, and we advise avoiding the use of ChatGPT generated training plans without an expert coach's feedback.		[Dueking, Peter] Tech Univ Carolo Wilhelmina Braunschweig, Dept Sports Sci & Movement Pedag, Braunschweig, Germany; [Sperlich, Billy] Univ Wurzburg, Dept Sport Sci, Integrat & Expt Exercise Sci, Wurzburg, Germany; [Voigt, Laura] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Psychol, Cologne, Germany; [Van Hooren, Bas] Maastricht Univ, Fac Hlth, Sch Nutr & Translat Res Metab NUTRIM, Dept Nutr & Movement Sci, Maastricht, Netherlands; [Zanini, Michele] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leicestershire, England; [Zinner, Christoph] Univ Appl Sci Police & Adm Hesse, Dept Sport, Wiesbaden, Germany; [Dueking, Peter] Tech Univ Carolo Wilhelmina Braunschweig, Dept Sports Sci & Movement Pedag, Braunschweig, Germany								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:001148356300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Nakamura, Masatoshi; Uchida, Hironori; Murakami, Yuta; Kasahara, Kazuki; Takaki, Imai; Konrad, Andreas								The Acute Effect of Percussive Massage Intervention with and without Heat Application on Plantar Flexor Muscles' Passive and Active Properties								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			73	78		10.52082/jssm.2024.73			MAR 2024	2024	Recently, percussive massage (PM) intervention using a handheld percussive massage device, namely a massage gun, has been used as an easy way to perform vibration functions. Additionally, a product has been developed that allows PM intervention and heat application to be performed simultaneously. Thus, this study aimed to compare the acute effects of PM intervention with and without heat application on dorsiflexion (DF) range of motion (ROM), passive stiffness, and muscle strength in the gastrocnemius muscle. Fifteen healthy young men (20.9 +/- 0.2 years) participated in this study. We measured the DF ROM, passive torque at DF ROM (an indicator of stretch tolerance), passive stiffness, and maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) torque of the plantar flexor muscles before and immediately after 120 seconds PM intervention with and without heat application. The results showed that PM intervention with and without heat application significantly increased DF ROM and passive torque at DF ROM and decreased passive stiffness, not MVIC torque. These results suggest that PM intervention increased ROM and decreased passive stiffness regardless of the presence or absence of the heat application.		[Nakamura, Masatoshi; Uchida, Hironori] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Saga, Japan; [Murakami, Yuta; Kasahara, Kazuki] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Takaki, Imai] Kyushu Univ Nursing & Welf, Dept Rehabil, Kumamoto, Japan; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, 4490-9 Ozaki, Kanzaki, Saga 8428585, Japan; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, 4490-9 Ozaki, Kanzaki, Saga 8428585, Japan								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147757400001	29	Article; Article		
J	Cejuela, Roberto; Arevalo-Chico, Hector; Selles-Perez, Sergio								Power Profile during Cycling in World Triathlon Series and Olympic Games								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			25	33		10.52082/jssm.2024.25			MAR 2024	2024	This study aimed to analyze the power profile (PP) during the cycling segment of international-level triathletes in the World Triathlon Series (WTS) and Olympics and to evaluate the influence of circuit type, race distance (Sprint or Olympic distance) and race dynamics on the development of the cycling leg and the final race position. Four male triathletes participated in the study. Twenty races were analyzed using geolocation technology and power-meter data to analyze PP, race dynamics, and course characteristics. Before the races, incremental tests of volitional exhaustion with gas analysis were performed to determine power intensity zones. Nonparametric Mann-Whitney U tests and correlation analyses were conducted to identify differences and relationships between various variables. A correlation between the time spent above maximal aerobic power (MAP) and dangerous curves per kilometer (r = 0.46; p < 0.05) and bike split result (BSR) (r = -0.50; p < 0.05) was observed. Also, moderate correlation was found between BSR and the final race position (r = 0.46; p < 0.01). No differences were found between sprint and Olympic distance races in any variable. Power output variability, influenced by technical circuit segments, remains the main characteristic in international short-distance races. The results of the present study suggest that the triathletes who are better adapted to intermittent high intensity efforts perform better cycling legs at international high-level races.		[Cejuela, Roberto; Arevalo-Chico, Hector; Selles-Perez, Sergio] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Phys Educ & Sports, Carretera San Vicente del Raspeig S-N, Alicante 03690, Spain; [Arevalo-Chico, Hector] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Phys Educ & Sports, Carretera San Vicente del Raspeig S-N, Alicante 03690, Spain								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001129143200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Armstrong, Cameron; Peeling, Peter; Murphy, Alistair; Reid, Machar								Navigating the Court: A Comparison of Distance Demands between Sexes in Grand Slam Tennis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			1	7		10.52082/jssm.2024.1			MAR 2024	2024	This study analysed critical movement demands of tennis match-play to better inform contemporary approaches to athlete preparation and training. HawkEye data from matches during the 2021 and 2022 Australian Open were utilised. Distance was aggregated for movement cycles, points, games, sets, and matches, alongside total shots played. Data was collated for males (best-of-five sets) and females (best-of-three sets) allowing comparisons both within and between sexes. Overall, no differences within sexes were evident for total distance, however males traversed further per match than females (MDE = 809 +/- 139m, ES = 0.86). Female players travelled further in their deciding (third) sets compared to set 1 (ES = 0.28) and while this effect wasn't as discernible for males, the deciding (fifth) set showed some evidence of elevated distance requirements and variability. Between sexes, only female set 3 was different to male set 3 (ES = 0.29). Female and male tiebreak games (i.e. game 13) required players travel further distance compared to other games (ES = similar to 1.45). Between sex differences were observed for tiebreak games compared to games 1 to 12 (female ES = 1.36 and male ES = 1.53). Players from both sexes generally covered similar distances during points and movement cycles, with between-shot distances of 4.2m-4.5m, notably longer than previous reports. Further, total shots and total match distance (r > 0.97; p < 0.01) shared similar linear relationships. These results highlight that the between shot or movement cycle demands of professional hard court tennis are substantially higher than described in the literature (Roetert et al., 2003). The findings also reveal competitiveness as a key influence on set level distance demands during professional tennis match-play, a consideration in player preparation programs.		[Armstrong, Cameron; Peeling, Peter] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, Australia; [Armstrong, Cameron; Murphy, Alistair; Reid, Machar] Tennis Australia, Melbourne, Australia; [Peeling, Peter] Western Australian Inst Sport, Perth, Australia; [Armstrong, Cameron] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci M408, Perth, Australia; [Armstrong, Cameron] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci M408, Perth, Australia								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001124181100001	30	Article; Article		
J	Cortesi, Matteo; Gatta, Giorgio; Carmigniani, Remi; Zamparo, Paola								Estimating Active Drag Based on Full and Semi-Tethered Swimming Tests								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			17	24		10.52082/jssm.2024.17			MAR 2024	2024	During full tethered swimming no hydrodynamic resistance is generated (since v = 0) and all the swimmer's propulsive force (F-P) is utilized to exert force on the tether (F-T = F-P). During semitethered swimming FP can be made useful to one of two ends: exerting force on the tether (F-ST) or overcoming drag in the water (active drag: Da). At constant stroke rate, the mean propulsive force (F-P) is constant and the quantity F-P - F-ST (the "residual thrust") corresponds to Da. In this study we explored the possibility to estimate Da based on this method ("residual thrust method") and we compared these values with passive drag values (Dp) and with values of active drag estimated by means of the "planimetric method". Based on data obtained from resisted swimming (full and semi-tethered tests at 100% and 35, 50, 60, 75, 85% of the individual F-T), active drag was calculated as: Da(ST) = kaST .v(ST)(2 )= F-P - F-ST ("residual thrust method"). Passive drag (Dp) was calculated based on data obtained from passive towing tests and active drag ("planimetric method") was estimated as: D-aPL = Dp.1.5. Speed-specific drag (k = D/v(2)) in passive conditions (kp) was approximate to 25 kg.m(-1) and in active conditions (ka) approximate to 38 kg.m(1) (with either method); thus, D-aST > D-p and D-aST approximate to D-aPL. In human swimming active drag is, thus, about 1.5 times larger than cal setting (in the swimming pool) by using basic instrumentation and a simple set of calculations.		[Cortesi, Matteo; Gatta, Giorgio] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies, Bologna, Italy; [Carmigniani, Remi] Ecole Ponts, LHSV, EDF R&D, Chatou, France; [Zamparo, Paola] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Zamparo, Paola] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001125497800001	24	Article; Article		
J	Fang, Kaiqin; Jiang, Han								Gender-Specific Effects of Short Sprint Interval Training on Aerobic and Anaerobic Capacities in Basketball Players: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				23	1			8	16		10.52082/jssm.2024.8			MAR 2024	2024	This study compared the effects of a 6-week short sprint interval training (sSIT) on male and female basketball players' bio-motor abilities, aerobic fitness, and anaerobic power. Using a randomized controlled trial design, 40 basketball players of similar training backgrounds were randomly assigned to two training groups of females (n = 10) and males (n = 10) or two control groups of females and males (each of 10). The training groups performed 3 sets of 10 x 5-second all-out interval running, with a 1:3 work-to-recovery ratio, and a 3-minute rest between sets. The players were evaluated for bio-motor abilities, including muscular power assessed through the vertical jump, agility measured using a T-test and Illinois change of direction (COD) test, and maximal sprint speed measured by a 20-meter sprint test. Also, aerobic fitness was assessed by evaluating maximum oxygen consumption (VO2max) through the Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test level 1 (Yo-Yo IR 1) test before and after the 6-week training period. After the interven-tion, both training groups (females and males) demonstrated sig-nificant improvements in vertical jump (effect size [ES] = 1.29, 1.06, respectively), peak power output (ES = 1.27, 1.39), T-test (ES =-0.56, -0.58), Illinois COD test (ES =-0.88,-1.1), 20-m sprint (ES =-1.09,-0.55), Yo-Yo IR1 performance (ES = 2.18, 2.20), and V O-2max (ES = 2.28, 1.75). Gender did not exhibit any significant impact on the extent of changes observed over time. The results of this study suggest that adaptations in aerobic fitness and bio-motor abilities measured in this experiment in response to sSIT are similar across genders, and gender differences should not be a major concern when implementing sSIT in basketball players.		[Fang, Kaiqin; Jiang, Han] Wuhan Sports Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Wuhan, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Han] Wuhan Sports Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Wuhan, Hubei, Peoples R China								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:001123674500001	36	Article; Article		
J	Yalfani, Ali; Ahadi, Fatemeh; Ahmadi, Mohamadreza; Asgarpoor, Azadeh								Relationship between exacerbating patellofemoral pain and dynamic knee valgus in females with patellofemoral pain after a patellofemoral joint loading protocol: A cross-sectional								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				67				13	18		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.02.003			MAY 2024	2024	Objective: The aim of the present study is to 1) the effect of exacerbating patellofemoral pain (PFP) on dynamic knee valgus (DKV) 2) the relationship between exacerbating PFP and DKV in females with patellofemoral pain. Design: Cross-sectional study. Methods: Sixty women with PFP were recruited from the orthopedic clinics. We evaluated pain intensity and DKV in two conditions without (condition 1) and with (condition 2) PFJ loading during the single-leg squat (SLS) task. The MANOVA test was used to compare pain intensity and DKV angle between the two conditions. Furthermore, the Pearson correlation was used to examine the correlation between pain intensity with DKV angle. Results: The MANOVA analysis showed that pain intensity (P < 0.000, eta 2 = 0.623) and DKV angle (P < 0.000, eta 2 = 0.544) with a medium effect size significantly increased after PFJ loading. Furthermore, an excellent positive correlation was observed between an increase in pain intensity and DKV angle (P < 0.000, r = 0.840). Conclusion: It seems that after the PFJ loading protocol and the subsequent pain exacerbation, the neuromuscular biomechanics of the lower limb are deficits. As a result, the stabilizing muscles activation decreases and increases the lower limb movement in the frontal plane.		[Yalfani, Ali; Ahadi, Fatemeh; Ahmadi, Mohamadreza; Asgarpoor, Azadeh] Bu ali Sina Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport Injuries & Correct Exercises, Hamadan, Iran; [Yalfani, Ali] Bu Ali Sina Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Sch Sport Injuries & Correct Exercises, Hamadan, Iran; [Yalfani, Ali] Hamadan Bu Ali Sina Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Correct Exercise, Hamadan, Iran; [Yalfani, Ali] Bu Ali Sina Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Sch Sport Injuries & Correct Exercises, Hamadan, Iran; [Yalfani, Ali] Hamadan Bu Ali Sina Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Correct Exercise, Hamadan, Iran								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001225722500001	40	Article; Article		
J	Robinson, Luke; Murray, Andrew; Mountjoy, Margo; Scott, Fiona; Glover, Danny; Coughlan, Daniel; Turner, Anthony; Bishop, Chris								Practices and perceptions of strength and conditioning in female golf: A survey study of touring professionals								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			1972	1983		10.1177/17479541241234793			OCT 2024	2024	The aim of the study was to provide an understanding of current practices and perceptions of strength and conditioning (S&C) training in female touring professionals. A cross-sectional, explorative survey was undertaken and contained 30 questions separated into four sections: (i) general participant information, (ii) S&C practices, (iii) Likert scale questions on S&C for golf performance, and (iv) knowledge and awareness of S&C. A total of 102 players completed the survey with a combination of multiple-choice questions (MCQs), open-ended questions, and Likert scale style questions utilised throughout. Results showed that >= 94% of players believed that strength and power in both the lower and upper body, in addition to flexibility, were the most important physical characteristics to complement golf shot metrics (e.g. clubhead speed [CHS], ball speed, carry distance, etc.). However, 26% of players conducted S&C training only in the off-season, with 21% suggesting that they had a fear of injury from S&C training. When considering the barriers to undertaking S&C training, the most common reasons included time constraints (20%) and players wanting to prioritise golf practice (15%). Finally, 58% of players believed that training in the weight room should replicate the golf swing. Although it is positive to see that the main physical characteristics for golf are well-understood by professional players, it is also evident that further education and knowledge translation is required relating to the application of S&C training for performance enhancement and injury risk mitigation purposes.		[Robinson, Luke; Turner, Anthony; Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Murray, Andrew; Coughlan, Daniel; Bishop, Chris] R&A, Med & Sci Dept, St Andrews, Scotland; [Murray, Andrew; Scott, Fiona; Glover, Danny; Coughlan, Daniel; Bishop, Chris] Ladies European Tour, Med & Performance Dept, Uxbridge, England; [Murray, Andrew; Coughlan, Daniel; Bishop, Chris] European Tour Performance Inst, Virginia Water, Surrey, England; [Mountjoy, Margo] McMaster Univ, Dept Family Med, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Mountjoy, Margo] Int Golf Federat, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Scott, Fiona; Coughlan, Daniel] England Golf, Woodhall Spa, Lincs, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001173836400001	27	Article; Article		
J	Zhong, Yuming; Weldon, Anthony; Dwyer, Dan; Bishop, Chris; Li, Yongming								Enthusiasm versus reality: A job analysis of Chinese sport scientists								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			1961	1971		10.1177/17479541241231662			OCT 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to survey Chinese sport scientists to develop an understanding of their demographics, job characteristics, future career intentions, and opinions. This study adapted online survey and used convenience sampling to investigate the role of sport scientists across China. Ninety-seven practitioners across 18 provinces/municipalities participated in this study. Participants were typically married (70%), male (71%), aged between 30 and 39 (52%), and held a master's degree (66%). Most participants were employed full time (90%) by sport science institutes (66%), with a wide salary range, long working hours (approximate to 48 hours per week), and irregular working time (40%). Most participants remained at the same institute (85%) throughout their careers. The most frequent reason why sport scientists remained in their current position was "job enjoyment" (4.04/5). The most frequently reported issue encountered by participants was "opinion differences with sport coaches" (21%). The ability to "gain trust" and "communication" were deemed important in the role of a sport scientist. Approximately half (44%) of the participants were satisfied with their current position and employer, while others wanted promotion (34%) or to leave their role (11%). The results revealed that (1) China's sport scientists are engaged in their current job mainly due to their enthusiasm, (2) their jobs are stable but highly demanding and relatively low paid. Poor working conditions and low retention are evident across Chinese sport scientist roles. Governing bodies should make efforts to improve the work conditions to improve the sustainability of sport scientist roles in the Chinese sport industry.		[Zhong, Yuming; Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci, Birmingham, Warwick, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Foundation, Aston Villa Football Club, Birmingham, Warwick, England; [Dwyer, Dan] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, VIC, Australia; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Li, Yongming] China Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Li, Yongming] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Changhai Rd 399, Shanghai, Peoples R China								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001173110100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Lyons, Mikayla J.; Conlon, Jenny A.; Nimphius, Sophia; Keller, Brad S.; Joyce, Christopher								An athlete's perspective: Comparing talent development environments for boys and girls in Western Australia youth soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			1995	2005		10.1177/17479541241231363			OCT 2024	2024	This study aimed to compare the perceptions of boys and girls regarding their gender-specific talent development environments (TDEs) in state-level youth soccer. Seventy-one players (girls, n = 35; boys, n = 36) aged 11-18 years completed the Talent Development Environment Questionnaire (TDEQ-5), Sports Motivation Scale (SMS-6), Coach-Athlete Relationship Questionnaire (CART-Q), and Self-Efficacy and Outcome Expectancies (SEOE) of strength training questionnaire. Mann-Whitney U tests and Hedges's g effect sizes were used to identify group differences. Boys scored higher for TDEQ-5 subdimensions: long-term development focus, alignment of expectations, and holistic quality preparation. For the CART-Q, boys perceived greater coach commitment, whilst girls perceived greater coach complementarity. The SMS-6 results suggested higher amotivation among girls and higher external regulation and introjected regulation among boys. Finally, boys reported greater self-efficacy and outcome expectancies related to strength training. Overall, the findings reveal significant disparities in boys' and girls' perceptions of their TDEs. Whilst these findings provide a more nuanced understanding of youth soccer TDEs, further research is necessary to identify the critical factors for effective athlete development regardless of gender, or with more informed considerations of gender. Stakeholders should consider the unique constraints and resources specific to their TDE to determine which strategies may best impact their functionality.		[Lyons, Mikayla J.; Conlon, Jenny A.; Joyce, Christopher] Univ Notre Dame, Sch Hlth Sci & Physiotherapy, 32 Mouat St, Fremantle, WA 6160, Australia; [Lyons, Mikayla J.; Keller, Brad S.] Fremantle Football Club, Cockburn, Australia; [Nimphius, Sophia] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Lyons, Mikayla J.] Univ Notre Dame, Sch Hlth Sci & Physiotherapy, 32 Mouat St, Fremantle, WA 6160, Australia								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001168756900001	40	Article; Article		
J	Pulici, L.; Randelli, P.; Pellegrini, A.; Zago, M.; Bellistri, G.; Niccolai, R.; Galli, M.; Dellasette, E.; Tosi, L.; Volpi, P.								Injuries in elite football (soccer) academy: A 4-year observational cohort study of five categories and 515 players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	5			2090	2102		10.1177/17479541241232765			OCT 2024	2024	Background Youth football (soccer) players in professional teams face a higher likelihood of injury compared to adults. The interplay between football and injury hinges on the contextual environment. Despite this, a gap in knowledge persists regarding the epidemiology within Italian elite football academies. Purpose Assessing injury incidence and distribution in an Italian professional football academy (n = 515 from U14 to U18) during match and training to understand injury incidence, severity, types, and related factors. Study design Observational cohort study. Methods A descriptive epidemiological study was conducted in a football academy (Campionato Nazionale Serie A) from July 2014 to June 2018. We analyzed data from 515 players divided into five age categories (U14 to U18). Injury occurrence was monitored using a custom data reporting tool adhering to FIFA and UEFA injury surveillance protocols. Injury incidence was calculated as the number of injuries/1000 h of exposure. Injury distribution was classified according to severity, location, type, playing position, and period of injuries across different age categories. Results Eight hundred thirty-two injuries were documented with 4.7 injuries/1000 h of training, 12.4 injuries/1000 h of match and 5.9 injuries/1000 h of total exposure. The months with the lowest number of injuries were June, July, and August (p < .019). Of all injuries, 430 (51.7%) were caused by trauma, while overuse contributed to 402 injuries (48.3%). Results Eight hundred thirty-two injuries were documented with 4.7 injuries/1000 h of training, 12.4 injuries/1000 h of match and 5.9 injuries/1000 h of total exposure. The months with the lowest number of injuries were June, July, and August (p < .019). Of all injuries, 430 (51.7%) were caused by trauma, while overuse contributed to 402 injuries (48.3%). Conclusion Findings revealed that injury epidemiology within an Italian professional football academy can be compared to other European countries. These data can serve as a reference for clinicians and sports scientists.		[Pulici, L.] FC Sion, Med Area, Sion, Switzerland; [Randelli, P.; Pellegrini, A.; Zago, M.] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Bellistri, G.; Niccolai, R.; Galli, M.; Dellasette, E.; Tosi, L.; Volpi, P.] FC Int Milano, Milan, Italy; [Galli, M.] IRCCS Galeazzi Orthopaed Inst, Ctr Traumatol Sport & Chirurg Artroscop, Milan, Italy; [Volpi, P.] IRCCS Humanitas Res Hosp, Dept Urol, Rozzano, Italy; [Pellegrini, A.] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, I-20133 Milan, Italy; [Pellegrini, A.] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, I-20133 Milan, Italy								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001173900800001	64	Article; Article		
J	Keating, Christopher James; Hester, Rials J.; Thorsen, Tanner A.								High cadence cycling not high work rate, increases gait velocity post-exercise								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1645	1659		10.1080/14763141.2024.2315245			JUN 3 2025	2025	Gait velocity, or walking speed, has been referred to as the sixth vital sign, and research suggests that it is highly sensitive to change. Previous research has demonstrated the utility of cycling to improve gait parameters and in particular gait velocity in a variety of populations. However, it is unclear if the benefits from cycling to gait velocity stem from increased cadence, increased work rate, or the interaction between them. Therefore, the objective of the current research was to explicitly test the relationship between cycling work rate, cycling cadence, and gait velocity. 45 recreationally active young adults were randomly assigned to cycle at a normalised cadence and work rate, a higher cadence, or a higher work rate (CONTROL, FAST, HARD). All participants completed two ten-metre walk tests (10 MWT) pre- and post-cycling intervention. There was a significant interaction between group and time and post hoc comparisons showed that the FAST group walked significantly faster than the HARD group post-cycling. These results support the hypothesis that cycling at a cadence greater than the comfortable walking cadence, and not cycling at an increased work rate, increased gait velocity post-exercise for all members of our sample of healthy young adults.		[Keating, Christopher James] Univ Catol San Antonio Murcia UCAM, Fac Deporte, Murcia, Spain; [Hester, Rials J.; Thorsen, Tanner A.] Univ Southern Mississippi, Sch Kinesiol & Nutr, Hattiesburg, MS USA; [Keating, Christopher James] Univ Catol San Antonio Murcia UCAM, Fac Deporte, Murcia, Spain								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001168654000001	59	Article; Article		
J	Hu, Xinyao; Zhang, Wenyue; Ou, Haopeng; Mo, Shiwei; Liang, Fenjie; Liu, Junshi; Zhao, Zhong; Qu, Xingda								Enhancing squat movement classification performance with a gated long-short term memory with transformer network model								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1629	1644		10.1080/14763141.2024.2315243			JUN 3 2025	2025	Bodyweight squat is one of the basic sports training exercises. Automatic classification of aberrant squat movements can guide safe and effective bodyweight squat exercise in sports training. This study presents a novel gated long-short term memory with transformer network (GLTN) model for the classification of bodyweight squat movements. Twenty-two healthy young male participants were involved in an experimental study, where they were instructed to perform bodyweight squat in nine different movement patterns, including one acceptable movement defined according to the National Strength and Conditioning Association and eight aberrant movements. Data were acquired from four customised inertial measurement units placed at the thorax, waist, right thigh, and right shank, with a sampling frequency of 200 Hz. The results show that compared to state-of-art deep learning models, our model enhances squat movement classification performance with 96.34% accuracy, 96.31% precision, 96.45% recall, and 96.32% F-score. The proposed model provides a feasible wearable solution to monitoring aberrant squat movements that can facilitate performance and injury risk assessment during sports training. However, this model should not serve as a one-size-fits-all solution, and coaches and practitioners should consider individual's specific needs and training goals when using it.		[Hu, Xinyao; Zhang, Wenyue; Ou, Haopeng; Liang, Fenjie; Zhao, Zhong; Qu, Xingda] Shenzhen Univ, Inst Human Factors & Ergon, Coll Mechatron & Control Engn, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Mo, Shiwei] Shenzhen Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Human Performance Lab, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Liu, Junshi] Dongguan Univ Technol, Phys Educ Dept, Dongguan, Peoples R China; [Qu, Xingda] Shenzhen Univ, Inst Human Factors & Ergon, Coll Mechatron & Control Engn, Shenzhen, Peoples R China								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001164550900001	42	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Shu-Wei; Tang, Wen-Tzu; Kung, Jung-Tang; Hung, Tsung-Ying; Lin, Wei-Hsuan; Chen, Yu-Lin; Burgee, Daniel J.								Comparison of ground reaction force among stride types in baseball pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3312	3325		10.1080/14763141.2024.2315241			NOV 2 2025	2025	This study aims to investigate the different ground reaction force (GRF) characteristics from different stride types. This study included 30 Taiwanese elite college and professional baseball pitchers. Each pitcher was classified into one of the following stride types: tall and fall (TF), dip and drive (DD), or mixed (MX). Our findings indicated that DD pitchers pressed their bodies forward earlier than TF pitchers. In contrast, the GRF of the pivot leg of TF pitchers increased slowly in the first half of the stride phase and continued to increase even after the stride leg touched the ground. This type of continuous pressing in TF was different from that in DD and MX pitchers, which decreased rapidly into the arm-cocking & acceleration phases. We conclude that the lower extremities were used differently by TF, DD and MX pitchers. This information could serve as a training guideline for coaches and pitchers to enhance training effectiveness, while simultaneously lowering injury risks.		[Chen, Shu-Wei; Tang, Wen-Tzu; Lin, Wei-Hsuan; Chen, Yu-Lin; Burgee, Daniel J.] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Kung, Jung-Tang] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Sports Training Sci Balls, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Hung, Tsung-Ying] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Indigenous Program Sport Promot, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Tang, Wen-Tzu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001169499900001	15	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Chen								Contesting fan tokens under crypto-capitalism: how sport NFT furthers the hypercommodification of fandom								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				26	2			254	272		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2023-0057			APR 22 2025	2025	PurposeGiven the rise of sport non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and sponsorships from cryptocurrency companies in the sport industry during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, this paper aims to critically frame the partnerships between cryptocurrency and sport by exploring the reception of fan tokens amongst supporters of three English Premier League clubs: Manchester City, Everton and Crystal Palace.Design/methodology/approachDrawing upon the emerging critical scholarship on cryptocurrency and the political economy of professional football, this study uses digital ethnography in an attempt to understand the major themes emanating from the online forum discussions amongst fans in response to the issuance of fan tokens by the aforementioned three clubs, among other types of partnerships with crypto companies.FindingsThe supporters' critical deliberations revolved around the contradictions of fan tokens (as a means for supposed "fan engagement" or for financial speculation) and the utility of cryptocurrency for the public. These reactions in turn showcase a larger tension underlying the financially unstable professional football industry: the contest between the owners and the fan bases over the exchange value (for profit) and use value (for community) of the clubs.Originality/valueThis paper is one of the first studies to adopt a critical framework to examine the emerging partnerships between sports and cryptocurrency companies during the COVID-19 pandemic. It also provides one of the first in-depth analyses of the critical receptions of sport NFTs amongst sport fans. While contributing to the literature on fan activism/protest in the context of the commercialization and commodification of sport, the paper also raises new questions on the responsible use of cryptocurrency/NFT in sport.		[Chen, Chen] Univ Connecticut, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Chen, Chen] Univ Connecticut, Storrs, CT 06269 USA								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001162853200001	72	Article; Article		
J	Morrison, Andrew; Wells, Jack								Evaluation of shaft angle to ball-to-target line as a predictor of horizontal delivery plane angle in the golf swing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3326	3343		10.1080/14763141.2024.2315253			NOV 2 2025	2025	The shaft angle to the ball-to-target line at various points in the golf swing is used by coaches as an indication of the horizontal delivery plane angle (HPA). The aim of the current study was to understand to what degree this simplified method of using the shaft orientation can predict the orientation of the HPA. Fifty-two male golfers hit 40 drives each in an indoor biomechanics laboratory. Between-subject regression models were created for the relationship between the HPA and the shaft angle to the ball-to-target line at three different swing positions. Additionally, single subject regression models were created for each subject for the small variables. The only significant between-subjects regression model was for mid-downswing (Adjusted R2 = 89.5%, RMSE = 2.41 degrees); however, this was deemed not accurate enough to distinguish differences between typical driver and wedge HPA. The only shaft position to have significant single-subject regression models for all participants was mid-downswing. The mean RMSE for those models was determined to be low enough to distinguish typical driver and wedge swing planes within individuals. Overall, the shaft angle was only deemed accurate enough to predict the HPA within individual subjects, and only for mid-downswing.		[Morrison, Andrew] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Sch Psychol & Sport Sci, Cambridge, England; [Wells, Jack] Natl Training Acad, The Belfry, Profess Golfers Assoc, Sutton Coldfield, England; [Morrison, Andrew] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Sch Psychol & Sport Sci, Cambridge, England								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001167446500001	29	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Kyungyeol; Lee, Senyung								Validating two shortened versions of the fitness switching cost scale								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	2			419	443		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2023-0114			MAR 19 2024	2024	PurposeAlthough the fitness switching costs scale (FSCS) was shown to have sound psychometric properties, the length of the 54-item may impose burdens on survey participants and present methodological and analytic challenges for researchers and practitioners. Therefore, the present study shortened and validated two versions of the FSCS, namely the 33-item FSCS (FSCS-33) and the 11-item FSCS (FSCS-11).Design/methodology/approachIn Study 1 (n = 411), the most useful items from the FSCS for the FSCS-33 and FSCS-11 were identified using item response theory (IRT). Study 2 (n = 391) and Study 3 (n = 400) assessed the psychometric properties of the FSCS-33 and FSCS-11, respectively, using partial least squares structural equation modeling.FindingsThe FSCS-33 and FSCS-11 demonstrated strong reliability and validity in assessing switching costs in fitness centers.Originality/valueThe psychometrically sound short-form scales provide researchers and practitioners with convenient and accurate means of measuring switching costs in fitness centers.		[Kim, Kyungyeol] Kongju Natl Univ, Dept Life Sports Educ, Gongju, South Korea; [Kim, Kyungyeol] Univ Southern Indiana, Dept Kinesiol & Sport, Evansville, IN USA; [Lee, Senyung] Chonnam Natl Univ, Dept English, Div Int Studies, Yeosu, South Korea; [Lee, Senyung] NE Illinois Univ, TESOL, Chicago, IL 60625 USA; [Lee, Senyung] Chonnam Natl Univ, Dept English, Div Int Studies, Yeosu, South Korea; [Lee, Senyung] NE Illinois Univ, TESOL, Chicago, IL 60625 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001161024100001	54	Article; Article		
J	Gomaz, Larisa; van Trigt, Bart; van der Meulen, Frank; Veeger, Dirkjan								Predicting elbow load based on individual pelvis and trunk (inter)segmental rotations in fastball pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3296	3311		10.1080/14763141.2024.2315230			NOV 2 2025	2025	The baseball pitch is a repetitive, full-body throwing motion that exposes the elbow to significant loads, leading to a high incidence of elbow injuries. Elbow injuries in pitching are often attributed to high external valgus torques as these are generally considered to be a good proxy for the load on the Ulnar Collateral Ligament. The aim of the study is to contribute to elbow load monitoring by developing a prediction model based on the pelvis and trunk peak angular velocities and their separation time. Eleven male youth elite baseball pitchers (age 17 +/- 2.2 years) threw 25 fastballs at full effort off a mound. Two-level varying-intercept, varying-slope Bayesian models were used to predict external valgus torque based on (inter)segmental rotation in fastball pitching with pitcher's weight and height added to strengthen the individualisation of the prediction. The results revealed the high predictive performance of the models including a set of kinematic parameters trunk peak angular velocity and the separation time between the pelvis and trunk peak angular velocities. Such an approach allows individualised prediction of the external valgus torque for each pitcher, which has a great practical advantage compared to group-based predictions in terms of injury assessment and injury prevention.		[Gomaz, Larisa] Delft Univ Technol, Delft Inst Appl Math, Fac Elect Engn Math & Comp Sci, Delft, Netherlands; [van Trigt, Bart; Veeger, Dirkjan] Delft Univ Technol, Fac Mech Maritime & Mat Engn, Dept Biomech Engn, Delft, Netherlands; [van der Meulen, Frank] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Sci, Dept Math, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gomaz, Larisa] Delft Univ Technol, Delft Inst Appl Math, Fac Elect Engn Math & Comp Sci, Delft, Netherlands								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001161324900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Skomrlj, Jaksa; Modric, Toni; Sekulic, Damir; Bandalovic, Ante; Turic, Ante; Becir, Boris; Versic, Sime								Longitudinal analysis of the incidence rate of injury in elite youth football: Trends over six years including the COVID-19 pandemic period								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				66				85	92		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.01.006			MAR 2024	2024	Objectives: We aimed to analyze injury trends and the possible effects of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic on the incidence rates of injury in young elite football players. Design: A prospective cohort study design was adopted. Participants: Our study included 832 male football players who suffered an injury during any of the six competitive seasons. Setting: An elite youth football academy. Main outcome measure: Descriptive data and the incidence of injury were calculated. A generalized linear mixed model was used to assess differences in the occurrence of injury among the various age groups. Joinpoint regression was used to analyze injury trends. Results: Joinpoint regression models showed a statistically significant decrease in the incidence of injury in all age groups with an average annual percent change (AAPC) of 13.9 (95 %Confidence Interval [CI]:-23.2 - 3.4) and -13.5 (95 %CI:-24.5 to -0.9) for models with zero and one joinpoint, respectively. Football players in older age groups sustain a higher number of injuries, probably due to a higher number of matches and greater training intensity. Conclusion: This study showed a downward trend in injuries in the participants prior to the pandemic, with an evident increase in the incidence rate of injury during the COVID-19 pandemic.		[Skomrlj, Jaksa; Bandalovic, Ante; Turic, Ante; Becir, Boris; Versic, Sime] HNK Hajduk Split, Split 21000, Croatia; [Skomrlj, Jaksa; Modric, Toni; Sekulic, Damir] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Split 21000, Croatia; [Bandalovic, Ante; Turic, Ante] Univ Hosp Split, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol, Surg Clin, Split 21000, Croatia; [Modric, Toni; Sekulic, Damir; Versic, Sime] Croatian Olymp Comm, High Performance Sport Ctr, Zagreb 10000, Croatia; [Skomrlj, Jaksa] HNK Hajduk Split, Split 21000, Croatia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001186545000001	73	Article; Article		
J	Dwyer, Brendan; Shapiro, Stephen L.; Drayer, Joris								Fan conflict or complement? Exploring the intersection of sports betting and team loyalty								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	3			483	498		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2023-0138			JUL 9 2024	2024	PurposeThe purpose of this paper was (1) to examine the underexplored intersection of sports betting and favorite team loyalty, and (2) to assess differences in gambling behavior among sport bettors by varying levels of team loyalty.Design/methodology/approachA total of 1,555 National Football League (NFL) bettors and non-betting NFL fans were surveyed to assess media consumption across a mix of team loyalty attitudes and betting behaviors.FindingsStatistically significant differences were found between four types of NFL fans (casual, team loyalty-dominant, betting-dominant and hybrid) as it relates to media consumption in various forms. Most notably, the results suggested symbiosis between the activities.Research limitations/implicationsThe symbiosis finding, though preliminary, suggests the activity provides an additional platform for consumers to connect with spectator sport. Furthermore, the act of betting, like participation in fantasy sports, appears to spur consumption of the NFL product generally. The study, however, was limited to NFL fans, did not specify the method for sports betting, nor the intensity of gambling.Practical implicationsTeams should not worry that betting detracts from fan engagement with the team product. Also, leagues and media providers should continue to highlight betting content as participants consume at higher rates than non-participating sports fans.Social implicationsTeam fandom may potentially moderate problem behavior among bettors. The betting results indicate being a loyal team fan lowers one's gambling spend per month and largest bet compared to non-loyal bettors. However, the hybrid fan showed significantly higher media consumption levels.Originality/valueSports fans have more opportunities to interact and engage with their favorite games than ever before. However, consumers have limited amounts of time and money, and this study is one of the first to examine differences in fan interests and behaviors related to sport betting and team loyalty and the resulting viewership and consumption behavior.		[Dwyer, Brendan] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Richmond, VA 23284 USA; [Shapiro, Stephen L.] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC USA; [Drayer, Joris] Temple Univ, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Dwyer, Brendan] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Richmond, VA 23284 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001159589000001	60	Article; Article		
J	Minchuk, Yizhaq								The "sports wars": A contest theory approach to cities hosting game								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2589	2596		10.1177/17479541231226415			DEC 2024	2024	The competition among cities to host a sports team or a large-scale international sports event is modeled as a winner-pay contest with an entry fee. In the first stage, each contestant (city) decides whether to pay the entry fee (infrastructure required by the team, for example), which allows it to participate in the second stage, that is, the actual contest. We show that the contest organizer's choice of the optimal entry fee does not depend on the number of contestants. Furthermore, in some cases, the result is a form of zero-sum game, in which the sports team or event organizer is the main beneficiary. The findings shed light on this type of competition and under what conditions on the entry fee a city might benefit from hosting a sports team or large-scale international sports event.		[Minchuk, Yizhaq] Shamoon Coll Engn, Dept Ind Engn & Management, Bialik 56, IL-84100 Beer Sheva, Israel; [Minchuk, Yizhaq] Shamoon Coll Engn, Dept Ind Engn & Management, Bialik 56, IL-84100 Beer Sheva, Israel								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001162849700001	33	Article; Article		
J	Ghattassi, Kais; Farjallah, Mohamed Amine; Graja, Ahmed; Romdhani, Mohamed; Boudhina, Nahla; Guimard, Alexandre; Driss, Tarak; Souissi, Nizar; Chtourou, Hamdi; Hammouda, Omar								Nocturnal Melatonin Ingestion Improves Soccer Players' Short-Term Maximal Performances on the Following Day								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			751	758		10.1080/02701367.2024.2303457			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Exogenous melatonin has been proven to have beneficial effects on sleep. A good sleep quality promotes recovery and improves physical performance. In this sense, the present study aimed to explore the potential effect of nocturnal melatonin ingestion on psycho-cognitive and short-term maximal performances, in the following morning. Method: Twelve professional soccer players (22.9 +/- 1.3 years, 1.80 +/- 0.05 m, and 72.0 +/- 8.8 kg) volunteered to perform two separate testing sessions after either nocturnal melatonin or placebo ingestion. The next morning, participants performed the following psycho-cognitive and physical tests: Hooper's index, reaction time, vigilance, handgrip strength (HG), squat jump (SJ), modified agility T-test (MAT) and Wingate anaerobic test (WanT). Rating of perceived exertion (RPE) and blood lactate [La] were recorded, respectively, immediately and 3 min after the WanT. Blood glucose [GL] was measured before and 3 min after WanT. Results: Compared with placebo, melatonin improved subjective sleep quality, short-term maximal performances (HG and SJ), reaction-time, as well as peak and mean WanT powers and decreased fatigue index and RPE scores. However, [La] and [GL] were not affected by melatonin ingestion. Conclusion: Nocturnal melatonin intake before sleep has beneficial effects on cognitive and physical performances the following day.		[Ghattassi, Kais; Graja, Ahmed; Chtourou, Hamdi] Univ Sfax, Sfax, Tunisia; [Farjallah, Mohamed Amine; Guimard, Alexandre] Univ Sorbonne Paris Nord, Villetaneuse, France; [Farjallah, Mohamed Amine; Hammouda, Omar] Univ Sfax, Fac Med, Sfax, Tunisia; [Romdhani, Mohamed; Driss, Tarak; Hammouda, Omar] Paris Nanterre Univ, Nanterre, France; [Romdhani, Mohamed; Souissi, Nizar] Natl Observ Sport, Buthiers, France; [Boudhina, Nahla] Manouba Univ, Manouba, Tunisia; [Guimard, Alexandre] Univ Orleans, CIAMS, Orleans, France; [Guimard, Alexandre] Univ Paris Saclay, CIAMS, Paris, France; [Guimard, Alexandre] Univ Orleans, SAPReM, Orleans, France; [Farjallah, Mohamed Amine] Univ Sorbonne Paris Nord, Hypoxie & Poumon, H&P, INSERM,UMR 1272, F-93000 Bobigny, France; [Farjallah, Mohamed Amine] Univ Sorbonne Paris Nord, Dept STAPS, Bobigny, France; [Farjallah, Mohamed Amine] Univ Sfax, Fac Med, Res Lab, Mol Bases Human Pathol,LR19ES13, Sfax, Tunisia; [Farjallah, Mohamed Amine] Univ Sorbonne Paris Nord, Hypoxie & Poumon, H&P, INSERM,UMR 1272, F-93000 Bobigny, France; [Farjallah, Mohamed Amine] Univ Sorbonne Paris Nord, Dept STAPS, Bobigny, France; [Farjallah, Mohamed Amine] Univ Sfax, Fac Med, Res Lab, Mol Bases Human Pathol,LR19ES13, Sfax, Tunisia								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001157609100001	58	Article; Article		
J	Parker, Patti C.; Daniels, Lia M.; Mosewich, Amber D.								Collegiate Athletes' Cognitive Beliefs Related to Setback Anxiety and Rumination in Sport								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			712	721		10.1080/02701367.2023.2298740			JUL 2 2024	2024	Setbacks are common occurrences in sport. Recently, setbacks such as injuries and deselection have been accompanied, and confounded, by setbacks related to COVID-19. How students manage a setback may depend on the interaction of two control beliefs: primary control (PC) to directly influence the setback and secondary control (SC) to adjust to it. Purpose: This study investigates the relationships between athletes' PC and SC and two important sport setback-related outcomes-anxiety and rumination. Method: We employed a cross-sectional design examining collegiate athletes in the USA and Canada (N = 200; M-age = 20.9 years, 143 women, 52 men, 3 non-binary, 2 did not disclose). Using regression tests controlling for setback severity, we examined the interaction effects of athletes' PC and SC beliefs relative to setbacks, on the anxiety and rumination variables. Results: We found SC beliefs were beneficial to setback-related anxiety and rumination. A significant interaction indicated that particularly when PC was low, SC had negative associations with setback-related anxieties about letting others down (beta = -.45, p < .001) and experiencing pain (beta = -.37, p < .001). Conclusion: The findings suggest SC beliefs are important for managing setbacks-specifically for attenuating harmful rumination, and specific setback anxieties. We discuss the possibility of enhancing SC beliefs for combatting sport setbacks through control-enhancing interventions as a direction for future research.		[Parker, Patti C.] Thompson Rivers Univ, Kamloops, BC, Canada; [Daniels, Lia M.; Mosewich, Amber D.] Univ Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Parker, Patti C.] Thompson Rivers Univ, Dept Psychol, 805 TRU Way, Kamloops, BC V2C0C8, Canada; [Parker, Patti C.] Thompson Rivers Univ, Dept Psychol, 805 TRU Way, Kamloops, BC V2C0C8, Canada								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001158645700001	65	Article; Article		
J	Kelly, Shane; Waring, Anthony; Stone, Ben; Pollock, Noel								Epidemiology of bone injuries in elite athletics: A prospective 9-year cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				66				67	75		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.01.005			MAR 2024	2024	Objectives: To describe bone injury patterns in elite track and field athletes. To investigate relationships between bone injury and athlete characteristics to inform future injury prevention strategies. Design: Descriptive epidemiology study. Setting: Elite athletics training centres across the United Kingdom and internationally, observed between 2012 and 2020. Participants: 207 Olympic programme senior track and field athletes. Main outcome measures: Injury number, Incidence, Severity, Burden, Time Loss. Results: There were 78 fractures during the study period. Gradual repetitive bone injuries were the most common type of injury mode. The foot, pelvis and the lumbar spine were the regions with the highest number of bone stress injuries. Stress fractures had a higher burden overall compared to stress reactions. Average return to full training was 67.4 days (+/- 73.1) for stress reactions and 199 (+/- 205.2) days for stress fractures. There was no relationship between bone injury type and age, sex, ethnicity, side dominance or event group. Conclusion: Bone stress injuries in athletics have a high severity and burden warranting continued efforts to prevent their occurrence and optimize management. Age, sex, ethnicity, side dominance and event region do not have any relationship with bone injury occurrence and are therefore unlikely to increase risk in this cohort.		[Kelly, Shane] Ballet Healthcare, Royal Opera House, London WC2E9DD, England; [Waring, Anthony] Fortius Clin, 17 Fitzhardinge St, London W1H 6EQ, England; [Stone, Ben] Natl Performance Inst NPI, British Athlet, Loughborough LE11 3TU, England; [Pollock, Noel] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth ISEH, London W1T 7HA, England; [Kelly, Shane] Royal Opera House,Bow St, London WC2E9DD, England; [Kelly, Shane] Royal Opera House,Bow St, London WC2E9DD, England								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001184072600001	43	Article; Article		
J	Forelli, Florian; Mazeas, Jean; Zeghoudi, Yannis; Vandebrouck, Amaury; Duffiet, Pascal; Ratte, Louis; Kakavas, Georgios; Hewett, Timothy E.; Korakakis, Vasileios; Rambaud, Alexandre J. M.								Intrinsic graft laxity variation with open kinetic chain exercise after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: A non-randomized controlled study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				66				61	66		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.01.009			MAR 2024	2024	Objectives: To determine whether quadriceps and hamstring strengthening in a rehabilitation program involving early open kinetic chain (OKC) and/or closed kinetic chain (CKC) knee joint exercises had an influence on graft laxity at 1, 3, and 6 months after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Retrospective study. Methods: Two groups (n = 53) of ACLR patients (combination of OKC and CKC exercises group compared to a CKC exercise group) were recruited. OKC protocol was introduced at 2 weeks post-operatively without external resistance and progressed at 4 weeks with load. Comparative ACL graft laxity measurement and isokinetic strength testing were prospectively performed up to 6 months in both groups. Results: No significant differences were observed in the knee laxity at 1 (p = 0.263), 3 (p = 0.263), and 6 months (p = 0.256) follow up between the groups. Similarly, no significant results were observed in within-group knee laxity between 1 and 6 months after ACLR in the intervention (p = 0.155) and control group (p = 0.690). Conclusion: The early initiation of OKC along with CKC exercises doesn't seem to increase the ACLR graft laxity as compared to a rehabilitation program with only CKC exercises.		[Forelli, Florian; Mazeas, Jean; Zeghoudi, Yannis] Orthosport Rehab Ctr, 16 Rue Paris, F-95330 Domont, France; [Forelli, Florian; Mazeas, Jean; Zeghoudi, Yannis; Vandebrouck, Amaury; Duffiet, Pascal; Ratte, Louis] Ramsay Healthcare, Clin Domont, 85 Route Domont, F-95330 Domont, France; [Forelli, Florian; Rambaud, Alexandre J. M.] Soc Francaise Masseurs kinesitherapeutes Sport, SFMKS Lab, Pierrefitte Seine, France; [Kakavas, Georgios] Fysiotek Spine & Sports Lab, Athens, Greece; [Kakavas, Georgios] Univ Thessaly, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, ErgoMech Lab, Trikala, Greece; [Hewett, Timothy E.] Marshall Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Huntington, WV USA; [Korakakis, Vasileios] Univ Nicosia, Sch Life Sci & Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth Sci, PhD Physiotherapy Program, Nicosia, Cyprus; [Korakakis, Vasileios] Hellen Orthopaed Manipulat Therapy Educ HOMT Edu, Athens, Greece; [Rambaud, Alexandre J. M.] IFMK St Etienne, St Michel Campus, F-42000 St Etienne, France; [Forelli, Florian] Ortho Rehab Ctr, 16 Rue Paris, F-95330 Domont, France; [Forelli, Florian] Ortho Rehab Ctr, 16 Rue Paris, F-95330 Domont, France								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001184418200001	32	Article; Article		
J	Chavez-Guevara, Isaac A.; Peric, Ratko; Amaro-Gahete, Francisco J.; Ramos-Jimenez, Arnulfo								Reliability of the Metabolic Response During Steady-State Exercise at FATmax in Young Men with Obesity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			766	774		10.1080/02701367.2024.2311641			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: In this study we evaluated the reliability of blood lactate levels (BLa), energy expenditure and substrate utilization during prolonged exercise at the intensity that elicits maximal fat oxidation (FATmax). Furthermore, we investigated the accuracy of a single graded exercise test (GXT) for predicting energy metabolism at FATmax. Methods: Seventeen young men with obesity (26 +/- 6 years; 36.4 +/- 7.2 %body fat) performed a GXT on a treadmill in a fasted state (10-12 h) for the assessment of FATmax and cardiorespiratory fitness. Afterward, each subject performed two additional prolonged FATmax trials (102 +/- 11 beats center dot min(-1); 60-min) separated by 7 days. Indirect calorimetry was used for the assessment of energy expenditure and substrate utilization kinetics whereas capillary blood samples were taken for the measurement of BLa. Results: The BLa (limits of agreement (LoA): -1.2 to 0.8 mmol center dot L-1; p = 1.0), fat utilization (LoA: -8.0 to 13.4 g center dot h(-1); p = 0.06), and carbohydrate utilization (LoA: -27.6 to 22.4 g center dot h(-1); p = 0.41) showed a good agreement whereas a modest systematic bias was found for energy expenditure (LoA: -16811 to 33355 kJ center dot h(-1); p < 0.05). All the aforementioned parameters showed a moderate to good reliability (Intraclass correlation coefficient: 0.67-0.92). The GXT overestimated fat (similar to 46%) and carbohydrate (similar to 26%) utilization as well as energy expenditure (36%) during steady-state exercise at FATmax. Conversely the GXT underestimated BLa (similar to 28%). Conclusion: a single GXT cannot be used for an accurate prediction of energy metabolism during prolonged exercise in men with obesity. Thus, an additional steady-state FATmax trial (40-60 min) should be performed for a tailored and precise exercise prescription.		[Chavez-Guevara, Isaac A.] Autonomous Univ Baja Calif, Mexicali, Mexico; [Peric, Ratko] Orthoped Clin Orthosport, Gurgaon, India; [Peric, Ratko] Univ Split, Split, Croatia; [Amaro-Gahete, Francisco J.] Univ Granada, Granada, Spain; [Amaro-Gahete, Francisco J.] Inst Salud Carlos III, Mouatchouk, Mauritania; [Ramos-Jimenez, Arnulfo] Ciudad Juarez Autonomous Univ, Chihuahua, Mexico; [Ramos-Jimenez, Arnulfo] Ciudad Juarez Autonomous Univ, Biomed Sci Inst, Dept Hlth Sci, Chihuahua 32310, Mexico; [Ramos-Jimenez, Arnulfo] Ciudad Juarez Autonomous Univ, Biomed Sci Inst, Dept Hlth Sci, Chihuahua 32310, Mexico								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001158296200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Hacques, Guillaume; Komar, John; Seifert, Ludovic								Promoting Exploration During Learning: Effect of Imposed and Self-Controlled Practice Schedules on Learners' Behavioral Flexibility								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			740	750		10.1080/02701367.2023.2300967			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Enriching learners' motor repertoires in a complex pluri-articular task, such as climbing, could help learners' adaptation to various sets of task constraints. Promoting exploration with variable practice conditions is one solution recurrently proposed. However, recent studies have shown that a too elevated exploration-exploitation ratio during practice could impair learning. A proposed solution is to give learners some control over their practice schedule, which appeared to better respect the individual learning dynamic in comparison to the usual experimenter-imposed practice schedule. Thus, the aim of this study is to investigate whether giving learners the possibility of controlling when to confront to new climbing routes would result in greater flexibility in their motor repertoire compared to giving them an imposed schedule of climbing routes or a constant practice condition. Method: Participants were assigned to either a constant practice group (CPG), an imposed-variability group (IVG) or a self-controlled variability group (SVG) to carry out a climbing task. To assess participants' behavioral flexibility, a scanning procedure was conceived by manipulating the route design and the instructions. Results: Participants showed an initial lack of flexibility as they strongly relied on a single coordination pattern. At posttest and retention, the three groups more frequently used a new hand coordination pattern and more often showed coordination patterns associated with high climbing fluency. Results suggest that the individualized rate of exploration in the self-controlled practice condition may have helped the learners improve their flexibility, whereas forcing exploration did not seem more beneficial than constant practice in this complex pluri-articular task.		[Hacques, Guillaume; Seifert, Ludovic] Univ Rouen Normandy, CETAPS, UR 3832, Mont St Aignan, France; [Komar, John] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [Seifert, Ludovic] Inst Univ France IUF, Paris, France; [Hacques, Guillaume] CETAPS, UR 3832, Blvd Andre Siegfried, F-76821 Mont St Aignan, France; [Hacques, Guillaume] CETAPS, UR 3832, Blvd Andre Siegfried, F-76821 Mont St Aignan, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001157064600001	44	Article; Article		
J	Moeck, Sebastian; Wirth, Klaus								Bilateral differences of isokinetic knee extensor strength are velocity- and task-dependent								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3641	3653		10.1080/14763141.2024.2315260			DEC 1 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to investigate the concordance of isokinetic bilateral strength differences of the knee extensors in single- and multi-joint movement tasks. One hundred and nineteen male athletes performed isokinetic legpresses at 0.1 m/s and 0.7 m/s as well as isokinetic knee extensions at 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s. Bilateral differences and directed bilateral differences (sign indicating the direction of the difference) were calculated for all measurements. Bland-Altman-Plots were plotted to investigate if the different conditions detect bilateral differences of the same magnitude. Additionally, concordance correlations for the directed bilateral differences of the different tests were calculated to investigate magnitude and direction. The results indicate poor to fair concordance between the bilateral differences in the legpress conditions as well as between single- and multi-joint tasks. The single-joint knee extensions displayed a moderate level of agreement. Bilateral strength differences in isokinetic movement tasks are dependent on movement velocity and the nature of the task (single- or multi-joint movement) in the lower extremities. Both the value and the direction of the strength differences show no clear pattern across the investigated measurements and cannot be used interchangeably. Therefore, to assess interlimb strength balance, multiple different tests should be performed.		[Moeck, Sebastian] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Hessen, Dept Exercise Sci, Frankfurt, Germany; [Wirth, Klaus] Univ Appl Sci Wiener Neustadt, Sport & Exercise Sci, Wiener Neustadt, Austria; [Moeck, Sebastian] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Hessen, Dept Exercise Sci, Frankfurt, Germany								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001157474700001	51	Article; Article		
J	Goncalves, Andrea Kruger; da Silva, Priscilla Cardoso; Griebler, Eliane Mattana; da Silva, Wagner Albo; Sant'helena, Debora Pastoriza; Possamai, Vanessa Dias; Martins, Valeria Feijo								Multicomponent Physical Program: Effects on Physical Fitness of Older Women of Different Age Groups								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			759	765		10.1080/02701367.2024.2306285			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Experimental studies investigating the outcomes of physical exercise among age-stratified groups of older women are still incipient. This study aimed to investigate the effects of a ten-month multicomponent physical program on the physical fitness of older women in three age-stratified groups (60-69 years, 70-79 years, and >= 80 years). Method: Participants (n = 141) were divided into three age groups: GR1 60-69 years (n = 45; 65.2 +/- 2.3 years); GR2 70-79 years (n = 67; 72.9 +/- 2.9 years), GR3 >= 80 years (n = 29; 83.5 +/- 4.5 years). The participants performed the multicomponent physical program and were evaluated before and after the intervention with Senior Fitness Test. Data were analyzed using generalized estimating equations, Bonferroni test (p <=.05) and effect size (Cohen's d). Results: For the group factor, there were significant differences in lower limb strength (p = .003), upper limb strength (p < .001), upper limb flexibility (p < .001), balance/agility (p < .001), and cardiorespiratory fitness (p < .001). For the time factor, significant differences were observed in lower limb strength (GR2, p = .014, small effect size), upper limb strength (GR1, p = .003; GR2, p < .001; GR3, p = .017; small effect sizes), lower limb flexibility (GR1, p = .025, non-significant effect size), cardiorespiratory fitness (GR1, p < .001, medium effect size; GR2, p = .002; small effect size). Conclusion: Physical fitness improved with training, but effects differed between age groups. Positive effects were observed for GR1 and GR2, whereas GR3 showed maintenance of physical fitness. Aging interferes more strongly in women aged 80 years and older and it is necessary for specific training programs for this age group. .		[Goncalves, Andrea Kruger; da Silva, Priscilla Cardoso; Griebler, Eliane Mattana; da Silva, Wagner Albo; Sant'helena, Debora Pastoriza; Possamai, Vanessa Dias; Martins, Valeria Feijo] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul UFRGS, Tramandai, Brazil; [Goncalves, Andrea Kruger] Univ Fed Rio Grande, Rua Felizardo 750,Jardim Bot, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Goncalves, Andrea Kruger] Univ Fed Rio Grande, Rua Felizardo 750,Jardim Bot, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001158294300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Burns, Andrew; Collins, Dave; Nolte, Louis								Coaches' experiences of performance support teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			965	977		10.1177/17479541241228814			JUN 2024	2024	Supporting high-level performance is increasingly seen as a team game, reflected in the growth in support services. Coaches and management must work effectively with various practitioners to deliver the required support to athletes. To date, how coaches experience these support teams has yet to be explored. Accordingly, we utilized a qualitative research design with semistructured interviews to examine coach-consumers' perceptions of more or less effective practice. Eight high-level coaches were recruited, and data was analyzed using reflexive thematic analysis. Key themes generated included the make-up and conduct of high-performing teams, prioritizing coach-practitioner relationships, and professional development considerations for both coaches and practitioners. Data suggest that practitioners are seen as playing a crucial role in elite sports performance, and coaches generally have a positive view of the contributions of sports science teams. Notably, however, several challenges were identified, including communication issues, conflicts over the allocation of resources, recruitment of, and the need for sports scientists to understand the demands of sports and the coaching process. Findings have practical implications for support teams and coaches working in high-performance sports; specifically, in the recruitment and development of sports science and medicine practitioners and coaches.		[Burns, Andrew; Collins, Dave; Nolte, Louis] Univ Edinburgh, Moray House Sch Educ & Sport, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Burns, Andrew] Univ Edinburgh, Moray House Sch Educ & Sport, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Burns, Andrew] U716-7 Metters St, Sydney, NSW 2043, Australia; [Burns, Andrew] Univ Edinburgh, Moray House Sch Educ & Sport, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Burns, Andrew] U716-7 Metters St, Sydney, NSW 2043, Australia								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001160207000001	45	Article; Article		
J	Bertozzi, Filippo; Tenderini, Dino; Camuncoli, Federica; Simoni, Greta; Galli, Manuela; Tarabini, Marco								Bioimpedance Vector Analysis-Derived Body Composition Influences Strength and Power in Alpine Skiers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			705	711		10.1080/02701367.2023.2298464			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Alpine ski racing is a complex sport where no single factor can exclusively account for performance. We assessed body composition, using bioelectrical impedance vector analysis (BIVA), and our purpose was to study its influence on the strength and power profile of young alpine skiers. Methods: Anthropometric measurements and advanced BIVA parameters were recorded on eighteen alpine ski racers (6 females/12 males; 17.0 +/- 1.3 years; 172.2 +/- 9.3 cm; 68.5 +/- 9.8 kg). Dynamic force and power were assessed using countermovement jumps (CMJ), while maximal isometric strength was evaluated for hip flexion-extension and abduction-adduction movements. Stepwise regression models examined the relationship between BIVA-derived parameters and strength/power variables. Results: Body cellular mass (BCM) positively related to jump height (p = .021, R2 = 74%), jump momentum (p < .001, R2 = 89%), reactive strength index modified (p = .026, R2 = 75%) and peak concentric power (p < .001, R2 = 82%), while intracellular water (ICW) related to peak eccentric (p < .001, R2 = 76%) and concentric force (p < .001, R2 = 77%) as well as to concentric rate of force development together with the phase angle (PhA) (p = .008, R2 = 79% and R2 = 0.015). Regarding isometric assessment, ICW was a significant predictor for all four movement directions, and PhA contributed to hip adduction strength. Conclusions: Body composition, particularly BCM and ICW, significantly predict force- and power-related factors in young alpine skiers.		[Bertozzi, Filippo; Camuncoli, Federica; Simoni, Greta; Galli, Manuela; Tarabini, Marco] Politecn Milan, Lecce, Italy; [Tenderini, Dino] Sci Club Lecco ASD, Lecce, Italy; [Bertozzi, Filippo] Politecn Milan, Dept Mech Engn, Via G Previati 1 C, I-23900 Lecce, Italy; [Bertozzi, Filippo] Politecn Milan, Dept Mech Engn, Via G Previati 1 C, I-23900 Lecce, Italy								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001157977000001	44	Article; Article		
J	Nascimento, Eduardo Marcel Fernandes; Borszcz, Fernando Klitzke; Ventura, Thiago Pereira; Caputo, Fabrizio; Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme Antonacci; de Lucas, Ricardo Dantas								Reliability and Validity of Cycling Sprint Performance at Isolinear Mode Without Torque Factor: A Preliminary Study in Well-Trained Male Cyclists								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			722	729		10.1080/02701367.2023.2298752			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study aimed to compare the performance-derived parameters utilizing isolinear (ISOLIN) and isovelocity (ISOVEL) sprint cycling modes. Method: For that, 20 male trained cyclists performed 2 sprints of 7 s on an electromagnetically braked cycle ergometer in ISOLIN and six sprints in ISOVEL mode with cadences between 90 and 180 rpm, each separated by 3-min. A linear function modeled the sprints within each mode to extrapolate maximal cadence (CMAX) and torque (TMAX), and a quadratic function was used to extrapolate the apex defined as optimal cadence power (OPTCAD) and peak power output (PMAX). Fifteen subjects performed another 4 sprints at ISOLIN mode on different days to verify the reliability. Results: The measures from the power-cadence relationship were not different between the ISOLIN and ISOVEL modes. Although significant differences were detected in the T-C relationship, TMAX was greater at ISOLIN than ISOVEL (p = .006). On the other hand, CMAX was higher at ISOVEL than ISOLIN (p < .001). The correlation between parameters was large to very large (r = 0.51 to 0.89). However, high limits of agreement were verified. The ISOLIN presented consistency during the trials, and the random errors were acceptable (CV = 5.3% to 11.5%). Conclusion: Using the power-cadence relationship, PMAX and OPTCAD could be detected similarly between the two sprint modes (ISOLIN and ISOVEL). Thus, the findings demonstrated that a single ISOLIN sprint test could be a suitable tool for quantifying the time course of muscle fatigue during and after cycling exercises in well-trained male cyclists.		[Nascimento, Eduardo Marcel Fernandes; Borszcz, Fernando Klitzke; Ventura, Thiago Pereira; Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme Antonacci; de Lucas, Ricardo Dantas] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Phys Effort Lab, 1020 Doutor Elmo Kinseski, BR-88495000 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Nascimento, Eduardo Marcel Fernandes] Univ Extreme South Santa Catarina, Criciuma, Brazil; [Caputo, Fabrizio] Santa Catarina State Univ, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Nascimento, Eduardo Marcel Fernandes] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Phys Effort Lab, 1020 Doutor Elmo Kinseski, BR-88495000 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001157980200001	26	Article; Article		
J	Muller, Tobias; Schuberth, Florian; Henseler, Jorg								Categorizing behavioral and formed concepts in sports marketing research								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	2			310	329		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2022-0188			MAR 19 2024	2024	PurposeSports marketing and sponsorship research is located at the intersection of behavioral and design research, which means that it analyzes the current world and shapes a future world. This dual focus poses challenges for formulating and testing theories of sports marketing.Design/methodology/approachThis article develops criteria for categorizing theoretical concepts as either behavioral or formed as different ways of expressing ideas of sports marketing research. It emphasizes the need for clear concept categorization for proper operationalization and applies these criteria to selected theoretical concepts of sports marketing and sponsorship research.FindingsThe study defines three criteria to categorize theoretical concepts, namely (1) the guiding idea of research, (2) the role of observed variables, and (3) the relationship among observed variables. Applying these criteria to concepts of sports marketing research manifests the relevance of categorizing theoretical concepts as either behavioral or formed to operationalize concepts correctly.Originality/valueThis study is the first in sports marketing to clearly categorize theoretical concepts as either behavioral or formed, and to formulate guidelines on how to differentiate behavioral concepts from formed concepts.		[Muller, Tobias; Schuberth, Florian; Henseler, Jorg] Univ Twente, Fac Engn Technol, Chair Prod Market Relat, Dept Design Product & Management, Enschede, Netherlands; [Henseler, Jorg] Univ Nova Lisboa, Nova Informat Management Sch, Lisbon, Portugal; [Muller, Tobias] Univ Twente, Fac Engn Technol, Chair Prod Market Relat, Dept Design Product & Management, Enschede, Netherlands								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001156641100001	119	Article; Article		
J	de Castro, Fabio Marzliak Pozzi; Oliveira, Lucas de Paula; Aquino, Rodrigo; Tourinho Filho, Hugo; Puggina, Enrico Fuini								Impact of Complete Intermittent Blood Flow Restriction in Upper Limbs Strength and Neural Function								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			635	645		10.1080/02701367.2023.2294092			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: We aimed to investigate the chronic effects of low-load strength training (LT) with complete intermittent blood flow restriction (IBFR) on neural adaptations and strength in biceps brachii. Methods: Nineteen volunteers were randomly assigned into two different 9-week training protocols consisting of three assessment weeks and six training weeks: (a) LT with complete IBFR (LT-IBFR; n = 10) and (b) LT without complete IBFR (LT; n = 9). Strength was evaluated by predicted 1 repetition maximum (1RM) at weeks 1, 5, and 9 and neural function by root mean square (RMS) and median frequency (MDF) at sessions 1, 7, and 12 during the first three and last three repetitions. Both groups performed three sets of Scott curl with 20% of predicted 1RM interspersed with 90s rest twice a week. Results: No changes were found in predicted 1RM throughout the training protocols nor between groups. LT-IBFR group showed lower RMS in the first set than LT for the first three repetitions and higher RMS in all sets for the last three repetitions with decreases in this value across the sets with no longitudinal changes for both groups. MDF in the first three repetitions did not differentiate between groups, however, in the last three repetitions, MDF were lower for LTIBFR group in all sets and it increased across the sets for this condition with no chronical changes for both groups in both repetitions zones. These results suggest that LT-IBFR may be ineffective for increasing Q5 strength and it did not promote chronic neural adaptations.		[de Castro, Fabio Marzliak Pozzi; Oliveira, Lucas de Paula; Tourinho Filho, Hugo; Puggina, Enrico Fuini] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Puggina, Enrico Fuini] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Ave Bandeirantes,3900 Vila Monte Alegre, BR-14040030 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Puggina, Enrico Fuini] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Ribeirao Preto, Ave Bandeirantes,3900 Vila Monte Alegre, BR-14040030 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001154691900001	48	Article; Article		
J	Abbott, Will; Exall, Zoe; Walsh, Lisa; Clifford, Tom								Menstrual Cycle and Situational Match Variables: Effects on Well-Being in Professional Female Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			688	696		10.1080/02701367.2023.2298443			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: We examined whether the situational match factors (location, result, and opposition quality), as well as playing position and menstrual cycle phase, influenced self-reported well-being in female soccer players. Methods: Twenty-two professional players (25 +/- 5 years) from a squad in the Women's Super League in England self-reported their menstrual cycle phase via an online survey, and their soreness, sleep, stress, mood, and fatigue on a 1 (positive) to 5 (negative) scale on the morning of match day (MD) and for the next 3 days (referred to as MD + 1, MD + 2, MD + 3, respectively). Data was collected for 26 matches across the 2021-2022 season. Session rate of perceived exertion (sRPE) and total distance covered (measured with GPS) were measured on match and training days. Results: Menstrual cycle phase and the situational match factors had no influence on distance covered during matches and sRPE (p > .05). Sleep was worse on MD + 1 (p < .001; g = 1.59) and MD + 2 (p = .005; g = 0.98) after away matches. Stress and mood were > 28% worse after playing top vs. mid and bottom table opposition at MD + 1, and significantly worse when losing compared to winning and drawing (p > .05). Playing position and menstrual cycle phase has no influence on self-reported well-being (p > .05). Conclusion: Sleep quality was worse after away matches and losing matches negatively affects stress and mood for 2 days post-match, but menstrual cycle phase does not influence post-match well-being.		[Abbott, Will; Exall, Zoe; Walsh, Lisa] Amer Express Elite Performance Ctr, Brighton & Hove Albion FC, Lancing, England; [Clifford, Tom] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3HT, England; [Clifford, Tom] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3HT, England								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001156022400001	56	Article; Article		
J	Rimer, Ernie; Petway, Adam; Jones, Paul; Schultz, Ross; Hayes, Brett; Suchomel, Timothy J.; Daily, Jennifer; Nichols, Katie; Leblanc, Blake; Antle, Becky; Ivey, Pat								Building Comprehensive Integration of Health and Performance Support Through Sport Science								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	1			55	68		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000794			FEB 2024	2024	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. This article provides an overarching view on establishing a sport science department that fosters comprehensive integration of student-athlete health and performance support in collegiate athletics. Collegiate athletic departments have adopted the high-performance model to help manage the complex health and performance needs of their student-athletes. Considered best practice by many, the high-performance model has limits in collegiate athletics, whereas comprehensive integration is the next generation of best practice. It combines every available resource to establish unprecedented health and performance support. This is accomplished, in part, by collaborating with academic, health care, and industry stakeholders who can fill persistent gaps in the broad services, knowledge, and expertise required to meet the ever-evolving health and performance challenges faced by athletic departments. A well-designed sport science department can facilitate this process by establishing mutually beneficial partnerships to fulfill various service, research, education, or innovation initiatives. This article details the role of the sport scientist in establishing comprehensive integration. It guides athletic departments who wish to begin a sport science program, as well as those who wish to expand their current sport science structure.See Video 1-Video Abstract, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A369.		[Rimer, Ernie; Hayes, Brett; Daily, Jennifer; Nichols, Katie] UofL Hlth, Sports Med Inst, Louisville, KY 40202 USA; [Rimer, Ernie; Petway, Adam; Jones, Paul; Nichols, Katie; Leblanc, Blake; Ivey, Pat] Univ Louisville, Athlet Dept, Louisville, KY 40292 USA; [Petway, Adam] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Ind & Syst Engn, Starkville, MS USA; [Jones, Paul] Ohio State Univ, Athlet Dept, Columbus, OH USA; [Schultz, Ross] Univ Louisville, Orthoped Surg, Louisville, KY USA; [Schultz, Ross] UofL Hlth, Louisville, KY USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [Daily, Jennifer] Univ Louisville, Sch Med, Dept Family & Geriatr Med, Louisville, KY USA; [Antle, Becky] Univ Louisville, Kent Sch Social Work & Family Sci, Louisville, KY USA; [Rimer, Ernie] UofL Hlth, Sports Med Inst, Louisville, KY 40202 USA; [Rimer, Ernie] Univ Louisville, Athlet Dept, Louisville, KY 40292 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001155397100009	49	Article; Article		
J	Suchomel, Timothy J.								Current Issues and Future Research Directions in Sport Science: A Roundtable Discussion								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	1			98	105		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000775			FEB 2024	2024	Although the sport science field has grown recently, it is important to identify its perceived issues and provide different research directions to advance the field. Whether individuals have been in the sport science field for an extended period or just entering the field, information that can benefit the profession is highly sought after. This roundtable was designed to identify current issues within the sport science field and provide recommendations for future sport science research. The group of panelists discussed the biggest issues facing sport science, future research that will benefit the sport science field, how technology has affected both research and the application of performance data, untapped areas for continued growth in the sport science field, and the gaps that currently exist in sport science education.		[Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001155397100006	23	Article; Article		
J	Gleason, Benjamin H.; Suchomel, Timothy J.; Pyne, David B.; Comfort, Paul; McMahon, Eric; Hornsby, W. Guy; Lis, Ryan P.; Stone, Michael H.								Development Pathways for the Sport Scientist: A Process for the United States								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	1			28	42		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000804			FEB 2024	2024	A variety of sport organizations employ sport scientists (SSs) in a range of capacities to support team operations, whereas universities employ SSs in academic (teaching and research), consulting, and support roles. Despite the growth in professional opportunities in the United States over the last few decades, little discussion has occurred to identify best practices in developing SSs. Here, we identify several examples of professional development pathways used by overseas organizations that govern SS roles and highlight key features of existing U.S.-based sport support role pathways. This information can be used to develop, implement, and evaluate professional training of SSs, along with shaping SS training programs in the U.S.		[Gleason, Benjamin H.] US Army, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [Pyne, David B.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Manchester, England; [McMahon, Eric] Natl Strength & Conditioning Assoc, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [Hornsby, W. Guy] West Virginia Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Morgantown, WV USA; [Lis, Ryan P.; Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN USA; [Gleason, Benjamin H.] US Army, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001155397100008	43	Article; Article		
J	Gleason, Benjamin H.; Suchomel, Timothy J.; Brewer, Clive; Mcmahon, Eric; Lis, Ryan P.; Stone, Michael H.								Applying Sport Scientist Roles Within Organizations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	1			43	54		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000810			FEB 2024	2024	Recent trends suggest growing application of sports science programs within United States-based sport organizations. Discussion is necessary to illuminate several ways sports scientist (SS) roles may be leveraged to enhance athlete and coach performance and enable support of knowledge-related tasks within and across organizations and throughout sports systems. Here we provide an overview of a variety of organizational arrangements for full-time through part-time SS roles, and some available best practices that support them-including the high-performance manager role. In addition, we discuss the misapplication of SS roles and highlight US-centric challenges in establishing sports science research programs.		[Gleason, Benjamin H.] Carroll Univ, US Army, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [Brewer, Clive] OrthoArizona, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Mcmahon, Eric] Natl Strength & Conditioning Assoc, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [Lis, Ryan P.; Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN USA; [Gleason, Benjamin H.] Carroll Univ, US Army, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001155397100011	66	Article; Article		
J	Gleason, Benjamin H.; Suchomel, Timothy J.; Brewer, Clive; Mcmahon, Eric; Lis, Ryan P.; Stone, Michael H.								Defining the Sport Scientist: Common Specialties and Subspecialties								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	1			18	27		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000788			FEB 2024	2024	Sport scientist roles are becoming more common in U.S. professional and collegiate sport. Despite the recent growth in opportunities, discussion is necessary to elucidate differences between sport scientist specialties and other roles common within the integrated support team and across the sport industry. In addition, guidance is necessary to show how sport scientists serving in academic appointments may be involved in sport organizations and influence sport systems. This information may be used: (a) to help employers to conceptualize roles and design job descriptions and (b) to help governing organizations and universities establish training programs for sport scientists.		[Gleason, Benjamin H.] US Army, Arlington, VA 22201 USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [Brewer, Clive] OrthoArizona, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Mcmahon, Eric] Natl Strength & Conditioning Assoc, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [Lis, Ryan P.; Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN USA; [Gleason, Benjamin H.] US Army, Arlington, VA 22201 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001155397100003	67	Article; Article		
J	Wagle, John P.; Cunanan, Aaron J.; Sams, Matt L.; Driggers, Austin R.								On the Limits of High-Performance Support								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	1			69	73		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000809			FEB 2024	2024	High-performance sport has experienced increasing emphasis on evidence-based practice and interdisciplinarity facilitated by integrating systems science, business management, and a rapidly expanding sport technology landscape. A major limitation of current approaches to performance support is they unduly constrain the conceptualization of high performance within precise boundaries. In contrast, we explore the notion of parallel incrementalism to guide the pursuit and support of athletic excellence. Given this context, we introduce the idea of performance-limiting factors (PLFs) to complement key performance indicators (KPIs) in informing performance support. Whereas KPIs directly influence or describe performance, PLFs are characteristics that indirectly affect performance in their current state. Considering human performance through the complex interaction of KPIs and PLFs will allow us to continue pushing the boundaries of high-performance sport.		[Wagle, John P.] Univ Notre Dame, Sports Performance, Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA; [Cunanan, Aaron J.] Cincinnati Reds Hlth & Performance, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Sams, Matt L.] New York Jets Athlet Care & Performance, Florham Pk, NJ USA; [Driggers, Austin R.] Kansas City Royals Performance Sci, Kansas City, MO USA; [Wagle, John P.] Univ Notre Dame, Sports Performance, Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001155397100007	22	Article; Article		
J	Clubb, Jo; Allen, Sian Victoria; Yung, Kate K.								Selection of Key Performance Indicators for Your Sport and Program: Proposing a Complementary Process-Driven Approach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				46	1			90	97		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000813			FEB 2024	2024	Key performance indicators (KPIs) are commonplace in business and sport. They offer an objective means to link data and processes with performance outcomes. Yet, their application in sports performance, particularly team sports, is not without issue. Here, we review 4 key issues relating to KPI application in team sports; lack of a universal definition, complexity of performance, drifting from on-field performance goals with off-field targets, and agency issues across different key stakeholders. With these issues relating to sports performance KPIs in mind, we propose a complementary approach to help practitioners focus on implementing the conditions that create performance environments and opportunities for success in a complex sporting environment. Ongoing process trackers (OPTs) are quantifiable measures of the execution of behaviors and processes that create the environments, cultures, and conditions for successful performance outcomes. This approach equips sports science practitioners with key questions they can ask themselves and their team when starting to select and use OPTs in their program.		[Clubb, Jo] Global Performance Insights, Crawley, England; [Allen, Sian Victoria] Lululemon Athletica, Prod Innovat, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Yung, Kate K.] Kitchee Sports Club, Med & Performance Innovat, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Yung, Kate K.] Queensland Univ Technol, Ctr Data Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Yung, Kate K.] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Fac Med, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Clubb, Jo] Global Performance Insights, Crawley, England								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001155397100002	63	Article; Article		
J	Karlsson, Niklas; Lunander, Anders								A stochastic analysis of the 4 x 100 m relay								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	6			2574	2588		10.1177/17479541231219969			DEC 2024	2024	The baton exchanges are undoubtedly the most critical parts of the 4 x 100 m relay race. Timing of the outgoing runner is critical. In this paper we analyze the race as a minimization problem under uncertainty. We formulate a stochastic model in which the outgoing runner at the baton exchange cannot perfectly assess the incoming runner's exact location relatively a checkmark position, and therefore potentially misjudges the right moment to start running. Also, the team members' daily shape is subject to uncertainty. To understand the effect of these two random variables-incoming runners' distance to checkmark and the daily shape of the running team-we conduct a simulation study to investigate the trade-off between the team's expected race time and their probability of being disqualified due to overrunning the takeover zone. Conditioning on a low disqualification probability, the difference in expected race time is shown to be substantial between teams with different variation in distance assessment and forecasting running performance, respectively.		[Karlsson, Niklas; Lunander, Anders] Orebro Univ, Sch Business, Orebro, Sweden; [Lunander, Anders] Orebro Univ, Sch Business, S-70182 Orebro, Sweden; [Lunander, Anders] Orebro Univ, Sch Business, S-70182 Orebro, Sweden								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001155706400001	36	Article; Article		
J	Ungureanu, Alexandru Nicolae; Lupo, Corrado; Contardo, Matteo; Brustio, Paolo Riccardo								Decoding the decade: Analyzing the evolution of technical and tactical performance in elite padel tennis (2011-2021)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1306	1313		10.1177/17479541241228059			JUN 2024	2024	Despite the recent popularity of padel tennis and extensive scientific research on technical and tactical performance, anthropometric, biomechanical, and physiological characteristics, there is still a lack of long-term retrospective investigation. Therefore, this study aimed to analyze key performance indicators (KPIs) to provide the changes in these indicators over a decade spanning from 2011 to 2021. The sample included 45 (i.e. 100 sets; 957 games; 5743 points; and 54,918 shots) professional men's matches (Padel Pro Tour and World Padel Tour finals and semifinals) from three different sports seasons (2011, 2016, and 2021). KPIs related to time motion and technical and tactical analysis (i.e. unforced errors and winner shots) were examined. A series of linear mixed models was performed to investigate difference among competition years (2011, 2016, and 2021). Comparing the evolution of the game across the observed decade, it emerged a more progressive intense game (more explosive and rapid playing actions), decreasing number of shots per point (8.8 vs 9.5), and an increasing number of shots per minute (44.2 vs 40.0). Further, an increase in the importance of efficiency in overhead shots (unforced errors from bandeja/vibora +116% from 2011 to 2016) and responding to serve shots (unforced errors from serve return +17% from 2011 to 2021) emerged. Therefore, the present findings are able to highlight the evolution playing of professional padel (i.e. fewer shots per point, shorter effective playing time, decreased average point durations, higher number of shots per minute), thus providing references to potential valuable training plans.		[Ungureanu, Alexandru Nicolae; Lupo, Corrado; Contardo, Matteo; Brustio, Paolo Riccardo] Univ Turin, NeuroMuscular Funct Res Grp, Turin, Italy; [Ungureanu, Alexandru Nicolae; Lupo, Corrado] Univ Turin, Dept Med Sci, Turin, Italy; [Brustio, Paolo Riccardo] Univ Turin, Dept Clin & Biol Sci, Turin, Italy; [Lupo, Corrado] Univ Turin, Dept Med Sci, Turin, Italy								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001154469900001	32	Article; Article		
J	Wiewelhove, Thimo; Schneider, Christoph; Kellmann, Michael; Pfeiffer, Mark; Meyer, Tim; Ferrauti, Alexander								Recovery management in sport: Overview and outcomes of a nine-year multicenter research program								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1223	1233		10.1177/17479541241227527			JUN 2024	2024	The nine-year multicenter research project, titled REGman-Optimization of Training and Competition: Management of Regeneration in Elite Sports-aimed to advance the understanding of recovery management in sports and generate practical recommendations. In this article, we outline the overarching research program that links the specific research strands and outputs during the two federal funding cycles (2012-2021) and summarize the main project findings. The two-stage conceptual framework involved investigating monitoring measures for short-term fatigue and recovery, as well as assessing the efficacy of various recovery interventions. These interventions encompassed psychological relaxation and recovery strategies, sleep, cooling techniques like precooling, percooling, cold water immersion, or whole-body cryotherapy, compression garments, active recovery, stretching, heating interventions such as sauna or contrast water therapy, massage, and foam rolling. The findings revealed inconclusive or marginal effects of recovery interventions at the group level, while indicating possible interindividual differences in responses. Additionally, the findings highlighted the effectiveness of diverse monitoring measures, showing satisfactory sensitivity in tracking performance changes related to fatigue and recovery. The use of individualized reference ranges significantly improved classification accuracy compared to group-based reference ranges. Athletes and coaches are encouraged to prioritize fundamental aspects of training and recovery: meticulous training planning and execution, effective sleep management, and proper nutrition. Furthermore, monitoring and analyzing individual responses, even though it demands suitable methodologies and presents challenges in high-performance sports environments, can yield valuable insights for personalized recovery management. If these aspects are comprehensively addressed, and resources allow, additional recovery strategies might be explored.		[Wiewelhove, Thimo] IST Univ Appl Sci, Dept Fitness & Hlth, Dusseldorf, Germany; [Schneider, Christoph] Elisabeth Hosp, Dept Cardiol & Angiol, Essen, Germany; [Schneider, Christoph; Kellmann, Michael; Ferrauti, Alexander] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Bochum, Germany; [Kellmann, Michael] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Pfeiffer, Mark] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sports Sci, Mainz, Germany; [Meyer, Tim] Saarland Univ, Inst Sports & Prevent Med, Saarbrucken, Germany; [Wiewelhove, Thimo] IST Univ Appl Sci, Dept Fitness & Hlth, Dusseldorf, Germany								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001154597500001	89	Article; Article		
J	Shull, Emily Ruxton; Pate, Russell R.; Mciver, Kerry; Monsma, Eva; Mclain, Alexander C.								The influence of coaching behaviors, experience, and training on children's physical activity levels during youth sport practices								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			956	964		10.1177/17479541231223161			JUN 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to examine how coaching behaviors, coaching experience, and coach training relate to physical activity (PA) levels of children during their participation in a youth sport program. Youth soccer teams (N = 27) serving children ages 6-11 years were directly observed during one practice using momentary time-sampling procedures consisting of 30-s intervals (10-s observation, 20-s recording). Team coaches reported prior coaching experience, training, and demographic characteristics. Multilevel logistic regression was conducted to describe associations between coaching behaviors and intensity of children's PA. Interaction terms were added to the models to determine if the associations differed across girls-only, boys-only, and coed teams. ANOVAs were used to describe associations between coaching experience, coach training, and team PA level. Children were more likely to engage in moderate or vigorous PA when coaches were watching without verbal feedback (Odds Ratio [OR], 3.2, 95% CI = 1.70-5.83) or watching with verbal feedback (OR, 2.1, 95% CI = 1.27-3.59), compared to when the coach was disengaged, regardless of team sex composition. The number of prior seasons coached was positively related to team PA levels. These findings can be used to inform coaching strategies for promoting increased PA during youth sport practices.		[Shull, Emily Ruxton; Pate, Russell R.; Mciver, Kerry] Univ South Carolina, Arnold Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Exercise Sci, 921 Assembly St,Suite 212, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Monsma, Eva] Univ South Carolina, Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Mclain, Alexander C.] Univ South Carolina, Arnold Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Epidemiol & Biostat, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Shull, Emily Ruxton] Univ South Carolina, Arnold Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Exercise Sci, 921 Assembly St,Suite 212, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001154592400001	40	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Sungkyung; Manoli, Argyro Elisavet								Transforming sport consumption: exploring motivated sport fans innovativeness in the context of AR live sport streaming								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	2			444	463		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2023-0180			MAR 19 2024	2024	PurposeThis study delves into the psychological processes underlying sport fans' post-purchase innovativeness behaviour. This exploratory research aims to establish a theoretical framework that elucidates the formation of sport fans' word-of-mouth (WOM) behaviours, particularly emphasising the structural relationship between motivated consumer innovativeness and satisfaction in using AR live-streaming services.Design/methodology/approachUtilising an online survey and convenience sampling, the study garnered a total of 243 usable responses from three online baseball fan communities in South Korea. Confirmatory factor analysis was employed to assess the psychometric properties of the constructs. Subsequently, a structural equation model was used to probe the influence of motivated consumer innovativeness on WOM, with a particular focus on the mediating role of satisfaction.FindingsThree dimensions of motivated sport fans innovativeness - functional, hedonic and cognitive - showed a positive association with WOM, partly mediated by satisfaction. In contrast, socially motivated sport fans innovativeness did not directly lead to WOM but influenced it solely through satisfaction. The full mediating role of satisfaction in the relationship between socially motivated fans innovativeness and WOM was found.Originality/valueThis research stands out as one of the scant studies exploring motivated sport fans innovativeness in the context of AR live sport streaming. The findings not only corroborate but also augment the extant literature by empirically confirming that three dimensions of motivated fans innovativeness, coupled with satisfaction, are pivotal antecedents to WOM intention.		[Kim, Sungkyung] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling, Scotland; Univ Bergamo, Dept Management, Bergamo, Italy; [Kim, Sungkyung] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling, Scotland								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001152996700001	73	Article; Article		
J	Sevilmis, Ali; Dogan, Mehmet; Galvez-Ruiz, Pablo; Garcia-Fernandez, Jeronimo								Dimensions and outcomes of experiential quality in the fitness industry: the case of Turkey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	2			396	418		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2023-0130			MAR 19 2024	2024	PurposeThe user experience during the use of activities and services is a fundamental aspect for sports managers and can provide a competitive advantage. The purpose of this study was to identify the dimensions of experiential quality and the relationship of this construct with customer trust and customer satisfaction in achieving behavioral intention.Design/methodology/approachUsing a convenience sampling technique, a total of 322 gym users in Turkey participated. A two-step approach was used to test both the model and the research hypotheses [confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) and structural equation modeling (SEM)].FindingsThe interaction quality, physical environmental quality, outcome quality and enjoyment quality were positively related to experiential quality. Similarly, the experimental quality was positively related to customer satisfaction and customer trust. Finally, customer satisfaction was related to behavioral intentions.Originality/valueThis study provides empirical evidence about the importance of experiential quality to gain a competitive advantage in the context of fitness centers.		[Sevilmis, Ali] Karamanoglu Mehmetbey Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sports Management, Karaman, Turkiye; [Sevilmis, Ali] Karamanoglu Mehmetbey Univ, Karaman, Turkiye; [Dogan, Mehmet] Natl Def Univ, Mil Acad, Phys Educ & Sports Grp Dept, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Galvez-Ruiz, Pablo] Valencian Int Univ, Valencia, Spain; [Garcia-Fernandez, Jeronimo] Univ Seville, Psys Educ & Sport Dept, Seville, Spain; [Garcia-Fernandez, Jeronimo] Univ Seville, Psys Educ & Sport Dept, Seville, Spain								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001152981100001	95	Article; Article		
J	Ortiz, Jaelson Goncalves; De Lucas, Ricardo Dantas; Teixeira, Anderson Santiago; Mohr, Pedro Augusto; Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme Antonacci								Match-Play Running Performance in Professional Male Soccer Players: The Role of Anaerobic Speed Reserve								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			680	687		10.1080/02701367.2023.2294102			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study aimed to compare match-play running performance between players with a high (H-ASR) and low (L-ASR) anaerobic speed reserve (ASR) profile in professional soccer players. Method: Thirty-six male players from the same club (age: 23.3 +/- 5.4 years) took part in this study. Match data were collected from 43 home matches of the first and second division of the Brazilian National Championship over two consecutive seasons. Players had their maximal sprinting (MSS) and aerobic speeds (MAS) determined during field test-based assessments. ASR was defined as MSS minus MAS. Total distance (TD), sprinting distance, number of accelerations and decelerations, absolute peak (PMS(abs)) and mean match sprint speed (MMSS(abs)) and its relative values expressed as a percentage of MSS (PMS(rel) and MMSS(rel)), distance covered > 100% MAS((abs)) and > 50% MSS(abs) were compared between the groups and halves. Results: HASR presented greater sprint demand (d > 0.80), PMS(abs) (d = 1.57), and MMSS(abs) (d = 0.99) than the LASR group. The opposite was observed for PMS(rel) and MMSS(rel). The TD and amount of high-intensity accelerations and decelerations were moderately (0.77<d < 0.90) and largely (1.21<d < 1.63) reduced between halves for H-ASR and L-ASR, respectively. L-ASR players also had their distance >MAS((abs)) and > 50% MSS(abs) decreased between halves (d = 0.72 and 0.77), while the H-ASR did not (d < 0.10). Conclusion: Our findings indicated that players with larger ASR had greater sprint demand, with a lower relative running intensity, and covered longer distances above MAS. The amplitude of ASR also affected the player's running ability between halves.		[Ortiz, Jaelson Goncalves; De Lucas, Ricardo Dantas; Teixeira, Anderson Santiago; Mohr, Pedro Augusto; Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme Antonacci] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Teixeira, Anderson Santiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Teixeira Res Grp Dev Football & Futsal, Campus Univ, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Teixeira, Anderson Santiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Teixeira Res Grp Dev Football & Futsal, Campus Univ, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001153741200001	32	Article; Article		
J	Eckenrode, Brian J.; Kietrys, David M.; Brown, Allison; Parrott, J. Scott; Noehren, Brian								The relationship of behavioral and psychological traits with pain sensitivity in females with patellofemoral pain: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				66				43	52		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.01.003			MAR 2024	2024	Objective: The purpose of this study was to describe the relationship between behavioral and psychological traits with indicators of central sensitization in female runners with patellofemoral pain (PFP), and to determine if behavioral and psychological traits improve with strength training. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: Twenty-eight active females (mean age 32 +/- 8.1 years) with PFP completed testing at baseline, 8 weeks (post intervention), and 12 weeks. Main outcome measures: Behavioral and psychological questionnaires included the General Anxiety Disorder-7, Patient Health Questionairre-9, Pain Catastrophizing Scale, Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia-11, and Central Sensitization Inventory. Quantitative sensory testing (QST) measures were also collected. After baseline testing, subjects were instructed in a hip and knee strengthening intervention to be completed twice daily over 8 weeks. Results: A statistically significant improvement was found at 12 weeks for anxiety (p = .015; eta p (Boling et al., 2010) = 0.099) and kinesiophobia (p = .041; eta p (Boling et al., 2010) = 0.076). There was no significant improvement for depression, catastrophizing, or subjective central sensitization. No significant correlations were found between any of the behavioral and psychological questionnaires with baseline QST variables. Conclusions: No relationship was found for behavioral and psychological characteristics with QST measures in female runners with persistent PFP.		[Eckenrode, Brian J.] Arcadia Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Glenside, PA 19038 USA; [Kietrys, David M.] Rutgers Sch Hlth Profess, Dept Rehabil & Movement Sci, Blackwood, NJ 08012 USA; [Brown, Allison] Rutgers Sch Hlth Profess, Dept Rehabil & Movement Sci, Newark, NJ 07101 USA; [Parrott, J. Scott] Rutgers Sch Hlth Profess, Dept Interdisciplinary Studies, Blackwood, NJ 08012 USA; [Noehren, Brian] Univ Kentucky, Dept Phys Therapy, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Eckenrode, Brian J.] Arcadia Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Glenside, PA 19038 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001180425200001	92	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Michelle D.; Wee, Natasha Shi Hui								Coach perspectives on factors that influence the implementation of injury prevention programs in community netball: A qualitative study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				66				37	42		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.01.004			MAR 2024	2024	Objective: The Netball KNEE Program is an injury prevention program (IPP) developed by Netball Australia. It is promoted to coaches, but implementation is limited. This study explored community netball coaches' perspectives on factors that influence IPP implementation, and ideas on how it could be improved. Methods: Twenty-four coaches from 16 netball clubs participated in semi -structured interviews that asked about their beliefs about injury prevention, use of and confidence in delivering IPP, barriers and facilitators to implementation, and suggestions to ease IPP implementation. Interviews were analysed using inductive thematic analysis. Results: Two themes were identified - Factors that influence IPP implementation (4 sub -themes), and Suggestions to improve IPP implementation (2 sub -themes). Coaches thought early development of injury prevention habits was important. Life roles, coaching experience and engagement with development courses influenced IPP delivery. Coaches expressed concerns about Netball KNEE program length and complexity and lack of implementation support. They suggested the need for a short simple IPP and engagement with health/exercise professionals for implementation. Conclusions: This study engaged with stakeholders to identify barriers that need to be addressed to improve IPP implementation in netball. Coaches desired a short simple standardised IPP, and training from physiotherapists or exercise professionals on implementation.		[Smith, Michelle D.; Wee, Natasha Shi Hui] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Physiotherapy, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia; [Smith, Michelle D.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Physiotherapy, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001178660800001	36	Article; Article		
J	Henning, David A.; Ellison, Oksana K.; Hauck, Janet L.; Paneth, Nigel; Pfeiffer, Karin A.; Pontifex, Matthew B.								Aspects of Physical Activity and Quality of Life in Adults with Cerebral Palsy								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			601	608		10.1080/02701367.2023.2290266			JUL 2 2024	2024	Background: Physical activity and sedentary behavior may differentially impact health-related quality of life in adults with cerebral palsy. Objective: The present investigation assessed the independent relationships between aspects of physical activity and sedentary behavior related to health related quality of life in adults with cerebral palsy. Methods: Through a cross-sectional online survey of 118 adults with cerebral palsy, participants self-reported the extent of their functional impairments using the Gross Motor Function Classification System, Manual Ability Classification System, and Communication Function Classification System; while mental and physical health-related quality of life were assessed using the RAND-36. Physical activity and sedentary behavior were quantified using the Physical Activity and Disability Survey-Revised and Sedentary Behavior Questionnaire, respectively. Results: Accounting for potential confounding influences of impairments, neither exercise-related physical activity, leisure time- related physical activity, occupational physical activity, nor sedentary behavior was associated with any characterization of health-related quality of life. However, greater engagement in general lifestyle physical activity was related to superior mental health-related quality of life. Conclusion: These findings provide initial evidence to suggest that focusing public health and therapeutic recommendations for individuals with cerebral palsy on general physical activity engagement throughout the day might incur potential benefits for enhancing mental health- related quality of life in this population.		[Henning, David A.; Ellison, Oksana K.; Hauck, Janet L.; Paneth, Nigel; Pfeiffer, Karin A.; Pontifex, Matthew B.] Michigan State Univ, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Pontifex, Matthew B.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 126 IM Sports Circle, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Pontifex, Matthew B.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 126 IM Sports Circle, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001148695800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Stanger, Nicholas; Jowett, Gareth E.; Kaiseler, Mariana; Williams, Toni L.								Linking Perfectionism with Moral Behaviors in Sport: The Mediating Role of Burnout and Moral Disengagement								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			646	655		10.1080/02701367.2023.2294096			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Research has identified a range of intrapersonal variables associated with moral behaviors in sport. However, research investigating how perfectionism and burnout are associated with prosocial and antisocial behavior toward teammates and opponents in sport has received scant attention. In the present study, we address this issue by examining whether perfectionism is associated with prosocial and antisocial behavior in sport directly and indirectly via burnout and moral disengagement. Method: A total of 312 team sport players completed validated measures for each variable. Results: Path analyses revealed that perfectionistic concerns had a negative relationship with prosocial behavior toward teammates and an indirect positive association with antisocial behavior toward both teammates and opponents via being positively associated with burnout, which in turn, was positively associated with moral disengagement. In contrast, perfectionistic strivings had a positive association with prosocial behavior toward teammates, and an indirect positive association with antisocial behavior toward teammates and opponents via moral disengagement. Conclusion: Our findings offer new insights into how perfectionism and burnout are associated with prosocial and antisocial behavior in sport, as well as highlight the need to consider perfectionistic tendencies and approaches to help reduce burnout and moral disengagement in the regulation of antisocial behavior in sport.		[Stanger, Nicholas; Jowett, Gareth E.; Kaiseler, Mariana; Williams, Toni L.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Leeds, England; [Kaiseler, Mariana] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Manchester, England; [Williams, Toni L.] Univ Durham, Durham, England; [Stanger, Nicholas] Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus,Fairfax Hall, Leeds LS6 3QS, England; [Stanger, Nicholas] Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus,Fairfax Hall, Leeds LS6 3QS, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001148322800001	60	Article; Article		
J	Marinho, Alisson Henrique; da Silva, Jean Marcos; do Nascimento Brandao, Vitor Fon; Jatoba, Sarah Gomes; Balikian, Pedro; Ataide-Silva, Thays; do Barros Sousa, Filipe Antonio; Bastos-Silva, Victor Jose; de Araujo, Gustavo Gomes								Caffeine Mouth Rinse Plus Ingestion Improves the 10-Km Time Trial Compared to Caffeine Mouth Rinse Alone								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			617	624		10.1080/02701367.2023.2293121			JUL 2 2024	2024	Background: The benefits of caffeine to physical performance have been extensively demonstrated, however, it has recently been speculated that there is an effect of the administration route on its effectiveness. Purpose: The current study investigated the effect of caffeine mouth rinse in isolation or combined with ingestion on performance in a 30-minute constant-load exercise followed by a 10-km cycling time trial. Methods: Ten physically active men performed a 30-minute constant-load exercise at 50% of the graded test Wmax, followed by a 10-km cycling time trial. Before and at the middle points of the constant-load exercise and 10-km cycling time trial, the following conditions were administered: PLA (cellulose ingestion plus mouth rinsing with magnesium sulfate), ING (5 mg.kg-1 of caffeine ingestion plus mouth rinsing with magnesium sulfate), MR (cellulose ingestion plus mouth rinsing with 1.2% caffeine), and COMB (5 mg.kg-1 of caffeine ingestion plus mouth rinsing with 1.2% caffeine). Results: During the 30-minute constant-load exercise, COMB presented a lower rating of perceived exertion (RPE) than MR (p = .04). For the 10-km time trial, the COMB was faster than MR (MR = 1363 +/- 345 vs. COMB = 1291 +/- 308s, Delta% = 5.57, p = .05). Mean power output was higher in COMB than PLA, ING, and MR (234 +/- 15 vs. 169 +/- 29, 148 +/- 11, and 145 +/- 12 W, respectively). There were no differences between conditions for heart rate and RPE during the 10-km time trial. Conclusion: In summary, caffeine mouth rinsing potentiated the effects of caffeine ingestion during the 10-km time trial compared to caffeine mouth rinsing alone.		[Marinho, Alisson Henrique; da Silva, Jean Marcos; do Nascimento Brandao, Vitor Fon; Jatoba, Sarah Gomes; Balikian, Pedro; Ataide-Silva, Thays; do Barros Sousa, Filipe Antonio; Bastos-Silva, Victor Jose; de Araujo, Gustavo Gomes] Univ Fed Alagoas, Maceio, AL, Brazil; [Marinho, Alisson Henrique] Univ Fed Parana, Curitiba, PR, Brazil; [Marinho, Alisson Henrique] Univ Tecnol Fed Parana, Curitiba, PR, Brazil; [Jatoba, Sarah Gomes; Bastos-Silva, Victor Jose] UNINASSAU Univ Ctr, Recife, PE, Brazil; [de Araujo, Gustavo Gomes] Univ Fed Alagoas, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Ave Lourival Melo Mota S-N, BR-57072900 Maceio, AL, Brazil; [de Araujo, Gustavo Gomes] Univ Fed Alagoas, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Ave Lourival Melo Mota S-N, BR-57072900 Maceio, AL, Brazil								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001148692700001	50	Article; Article		
J	Devran, Sergen; Gozubuyuk, Omer Batin; Dincer, Sensu; Gunver, Mehmet Guven; Bayraktar, Bulent								Diagnostic value of shear-wave elastography for patellar tendinopathy in female volleyball and basketball athletes: a cross sectional case control study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	5			470	477		10.1080/00913847.2024.2308507			SEP 2 2024	2024	Objectives: We aim to investigate the accuracy of shear-wave elastography (SWE) in diagnosing patellar tendinopathy in female volleyball and basketball players. In addition, we compared different parts of the patellar tendon and investigated the effects of different knee angles on elastography measurements.Methods; This cross-sectional case-control study evaluated 63 female athletes from professional basketball and volleyball teams (NCT06199583). Patellar tendinopathy diagnoses were made using clinical and ultrasonographic criteria. SWE measurements were taken at 30-degree knee flexion and extension. Rectangular regions of interest boxes were placed in three different parts of the tendon (proximal, middle, distal). The global SWE value was calculated by taking the mean of measurements in the three parts. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to identify significant cutoff points for SWE, and 2 x 2 tables were generated to determine sensitivity and specificity.Results: Thirteen (20.6%) of the 63 athletes were diagnosed with patellar tendinopathy. The ROC curves have identified different cutoff scores for SWE measurements. The SWE score of 130.75 from the proximal part showed the highest sensitivity of 89% and specificity of 80% (p < 0.001) with a 4.45 likelihood ratio at the 30-degree knee flexion. The likelihood ratio is 1.5 at a 30-degree angle and 1.65 at a 0-degree angle when measuring the entire tendon, whereas other portions indicate a ratio ranging from 1.12 to 1.73.Conclusions: Shear-wave elastography is a reliable evaluation method for diagnosing patellar tendinopathy. It has more accuracy when applied to the proximal part and at 30-degree knee flexion compared to measurements taken at knee extension and other parts of the tendon.		[Devran, Sergen; Dincer, Sensu; Bayraktar, Bulent] Istanbul Univ, Fac Med, Sports Med Dept, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Gozubuyuk, Omer Batin] MIVF, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Gunver, Mehmet Guven] Istanbul Univ, Fac Med, Biostat Dept, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Devran, Sergen] Istanbul Univ, Fac Med, Sports Med Dept, Turgut Ozal Millet St, TR-34093 Istanbul, Turkiye; [Devran, Sergen] Istanbul Univ, Fac Med, Sports Med Dept, Turgut Ozal Millet St, TR-34093 Istanbul, Turkiye								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001147441100001	38	Article; Article		
J	Raudasoja, Iina; Vasankari, Tommi; Simula, Mikko; Villberg, Jari; Vaha-Ypyae, Henri; Kokko, Sami								Physical education orientation and activity among youth ice hockey coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			64	76		10.1177/17479541231225182			FEB 2024	2024	Sixty-two percent of Finnish children and adolescents aged 9-15 participate in sports club activities, yet only one-third of sports participants reach the recommended 60 min of daily moderate-to-vigorous physical activity. The inadequate physical activity of participants underlines the need for physical education among those participating in sports club activities. Sports coaches have significant potential in promoting participants' weekly overall physical activity beyond sports training, given their role of authority. However, coaches in Finland mainly work on a voluntary basis, with varying knowledge and capabilities. The aim of the study was to investigate the physical education orientation and activity of sports coaches, and the associations of these with the moderate-to-vigorous physical activity of young sports participants. Questionnaire data from coaches (n = 26) and young sports participants aged 6-18 (n = 201), and accelerometer data from young sports participants (n = 293) were included in the analysis. The results indicated that even though sports coaches recognized the importance of physical education, they have not fully embraced their role as physical educators and promoters of weekly overall physical activity among young sports participants. The role of families was considered most significant in physical education. Coaches perceived their possibilities to influence the physical activity behavior of the participants as limited. Coaching education and experience had a positive relationship with the coaches' activity in implementing physical education, highlighting the importance of coaching education. The findings suggest that there is a need to increase collaboration with coaches and families to ensure an adequate amount of weekly overall physical activity of children and adolescents.		[Raudasoja, Iina; Simula, Mikko; Villberg, Jari; Kokko, Sami] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Vasankari, Tommi; Vaha-Ypyae, Henri] UKK Inst Hlth Promot Res, Tampere, Finland; [Vasankari, Tommi] Tampere Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Technol, Tampere, Finland; [Raudasoja, Iina] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001146921500001	37	Article; Article		
J	Kadi, Tomoya; Washino, Sohei; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Narita, Kenzo; Mankyu, Hirotoshi; Murai, Akihiko; Tamaki, Hiroyuki								Role of kicking action in front crawl: the inter-relationships between swimming velocity, hand propulsive force and trunk inclination								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1610	1628		10.1080/14763141.2024.2303361			JUN 3 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate the essential role of the kicking action in front crawl. To achieve this objective, we examined the relationships of the hand propulsive force and trunk inclination with swimming velocity over a wide range of velocities from 0.75 m<middle dot>s(-1) to maximum effort, including the experimental conditions of arm stroke without a pull buoy. Seven male swimmers performed a 25 m front crawl at various speeds under three swimming conditions: arm stroke with a pull buoy, arm stroke without a pull buoy (AWOB) and arm stroke with a six-beat kick (SWIM). Swimming velocity, hand propulsive force and trunk inclination were calculated using an underwater motion-capture system and pressure sensors. Most notably, AWOB consistently exhibited greater values than SWIM for hand propulsive force across the range of observed velocities (p < 0.05) and for trunk inclination below the severe velocity (p < 0.05), and these differences increased with decreasing velocity. These results indicate that 1) the kicking action in front crawl has a positive effect on reducing the pressure drag acting on the trunk, thereby allowing swimmers to achieve a given velocity with less hand propulsive force, and 2) this phenomenon is significant in low-velocity ranges.		[Kadi, Tomoya] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Grad Sch Phys Educ, Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan; [Kadi, Tomoya; Washino, Sohei; Murai, Akihiko] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Human Augmentat Res Ctr, Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan; [Tsunokawa, Takaaki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Tsunokawa, Takaaki] Univ Tsukuba, Adv Res Initiat Human High Performance ARIHHP, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Narita, Kenzo; Mankyu, Hirotoshi] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Fac Sports & Budo Coaching Studies, Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan; [Tamaki, Hiroyuki] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Fac Sports & Life Sci, Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan; [Washino, Sohei] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Human Augmentat Res Ctr, Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001147293300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Cardoso, Ricardo; Fonseca, Pedro; Goethel, Marcio; Abraldes, J. A.; Gomes, Beatriz B.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.								Effect of Randall foils on the rowing propulsive cycle								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3286	3295		10.1080/14763141.2023.2298968			NOV 2 2025	2025	Rowing performance depends on the design and building materials used for competition. Recently, attempting to improve rowing performance, the Randall foil has been attached to the top edge of a rowing Big blade, making it spoon shaped. The current study aimed to analyse the differences between Big blades with and without Randall foils in force-related variables. Nineteen rowers performed two bouts of 90 s at maximal effort tethered rowing and differences were found in cycle average peak force (4.33 +/- 1.46 vs. 5.26 +/- 1.57 N/kg), propulsive cycle average time (1.79 +/- 0.38 vs. 1.52 +/- 0.24 N/kg.s) and rate of force development (8.79 +/- 4.75 vs. 12.07 +/- 4.60 N/kg/s) for Big blades with and without foils (respectively). Differences were also observed between the middle (4.79 +/- 1.21 vs. 4.08 +/- 1.48 N/kg) and final phases (4.86 +/- 1.45 vs. 4.04 +/- 1.47 N/kg) of the rowing effort for the cycle average peak force of Big blades with and without Randall foils. Data suggest a positive effect of these foils on the force-time curve profile. Future studies should focus on testing its influence on free on-water rowing.		[Cardoso, Ricardo; Goethel, Marcio; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Cardoso, Ricardo; Fonseca, Pedro; Goethel, Marcio; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [Abraldes, J. A.] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Res Grp Movement Sci & Sport MS&SPORT, Murcia, Spain; [Gomes, Beatriz B.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, CIDAF, Coimbra, Portugal; [Cardoso, Ricardo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Cardoso, Ricardo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001145201600001	32	Article; Article		
J	Oxford, Samuel W.; Clarke, Neil D.; Dobbin, Nick								A international cross-sectional study examining knowledge and attitudes towards sport-related concussion in Touch								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				66				25	30		10.1016/j.ptsp.2024.01.002			MAR 2024	2024	Objective: To determine the current level of knowledge and attitudes towards sport -related concussion (SRC) amongst key stakeholders in touch rugby. Design: An international cross-sectional study. Participants n = 141 (male, n = 88; female, n = 53) from 15 Touch Associations. Main outcome measure: Online questionnaire including non -validated sections captured participant characteristics, first aid training, previous concussion, awareness of SRC guidelines, combined with Rosenbaum Concussion Knowledge and Attitudes Survey. Distributed online to Touch athletes internationally. Concussion knowledge index (CKI) and attitude index (CAI) scores were calculated. A linear regression was performed to determine whether awareness of concussion, previous concussion and role affected CKI and CAI scores. Results: Median CKI and CAI scores were 21 +/- 2.0 and 67 +/- 6.3, respectively, across all key stakeholders. 39% of participants reported a previous SRC and 32% of respondents were aware of concussion guidelines form their Association. Regression analysis showed minimal influence of key contextual information on CKI and CAI. Conclusions: Findings suggest that key stakeholders in Touch have high to very high knowledge and safe attitudes towards SRC. However, there were some areas where further improvement could be targeted by those involved in Touch such as individual associations at the direction of the sport's governing body.		[Oxford, Samuel W.] Coventry Univ, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, Ctr Phys Act Sport & Exercise Sci, Priory St, Coventry CV1 5FB, England; [Clarke, Neil D.] Birmingham City Univ, Coll Life Sci, Fac Hlth Educ & Life Sci, Birmingham B153TN, England; [Dobbin, Nick] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Manchester M15 6GX, England; [Oxford, Samuel W.] Coventry Univ, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Priory St, Coventry CV1 5FB, England; [Oxford, Samuel W.] Coventry Univ, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Priory St, Coventry CV1 5FB, England								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001170627300001	33	Article; Article		
J	Takahashi, Katsuki; Kamibayashi, Kiyotaka; Wakahara, Taku								Relationship between individual hip extensor muscle size and sprint running performance: sprint phase dependence								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3615	3627		10.1080/14763141.2023.2296919			DEC 1 2024	2024	The muscle size of the hip extensors has been suggested to be important in sprint running performance; however, reported findings are partly inconsistent. Here, we hypothesised that the association between hip extensor size and sprint performance may vary by sprint phase (early-acceleration, maximal-velocity and deceleration phases). To test this hypothesis, we measured the volumes of individual hip extensors of 26 male sprinters via magnetic resonance imaging and their sprint velocities for each 10-m interval during a maximal-effort 100-m sprint. Based on the sprint velocities, the maximal-velocity phase was determined for each sprinter. At the individual muscle level, the semimembranosus volume relative to body mass was positively correlated with sprint velocity only in the early-acceleration phase (0-10 m, r = 0.592, corrected p = 0.003). On the other hand, the semitendinosus volume relative to body mass was positively correlated with sprint velocities in the maximal-velocity (r = 0.483, corrected p = 0.020) and deceleration (90-100 m, r = 0.605, corrected p = 0.003) phases. These results show that the association between hip extensor size and sprint performance is not constant but changes through the sprint phases.		[Takahashi, Katsuki] Doshisha Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Takahashi, Katsuki; Kamibayashi, Kiyotaka; Wakahara, Taku] Doshisha Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Wakahara, Taku] Waseda Univ, Human Performance Lab, Saitama, Japan; [Takahashi, Katsuki] Doshisha Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Takahashi, Katsuki] Doshisha Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Kyoto, Japan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001144065800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Wei, Mengyi; Richards, Kevin Andrew; Graber, Kim C.								Physical Education Teachers' Perceptions of and Strategies for Managing Bullying: The Influence of Socialization								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			625	634		10.1080/02701367.2023.2294088			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study aimed to investigate how teachers' socialization experiences influence their perceptions of and responses to bullying. Methods: Thirty in-service physical education teachers were recruited to participate. One semi-structured, individual interview was conducted with each participant lasting approximately 60 minutes. Data analysis employed inductive and deductive techniques. Results: Two themes emerged that described teachers' perceptions of and responses to bullying. These themes included: (a) socialization experiences and socializing agents influence teachers' perceptions and behaviors in relation to bullying, and (b) teachers have developed strategies to address bullying but also experience significant challenges. Discussion: The current study suggests that while enrolled in a physical education teacher education program, preservice teachers should be provided greater knowledge about and strategies for addressing bullying. In-service teachers are encouraged to pursue professional development that increases their self-efficacy in managing bullying.		[Wei, Mengyi; Richards, Kevin Andrew; Graber, Kim C.] Univ Illinois, Champaign, IL USA; [Wei, Mengyi] Univ Illinois, Dept Kinesiol & Community Hlth, Louise Freer Hall 906 S Goodwin Ave Urbana, Urbana, IL 61801 USA; [Wei, Mengyi] Univ Illinois, Dept Kinesiol & Community Hlth, Louise Freer Hall 906 S Goodwin Ave Urbana, Urbana, IL 61801 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001145187000001	74	Article; Article		
J	Maricot, Alexandre; Corluy, Hortense; De Pauw, Kevin; Lathouwers, Elke; Meeusen, Romain; Roelands, Bart; Verschueren, Jo; Tassignon, Bruno								Deficits in neurocognitive performance in patients with chronic ankle instability during a neurocognitive balance task - A retrospective case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				66				1	8		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.12.009			MAR 2024	2024	Objectives: To assess the neurocognitive performance while maintaining balance of patients experiencing CAI compared to healthy controls. In patients with CAI, the affected limb was also compared to the contralateral limb. Design: A retrospective case-control study. Setting: Laboratory study. Participants: We included 27 patients with CAI and 21 healthy controls. Methods: The study consisted of two sessions, namely familiarisation and experimentation, which were scheduled with a gap of at least one week between them. During the experimental trial, both groups performed the YBalance Test and Reactive Balance Test once on each limb. Main outcome measures: The main outcome measures are accuracy and visuomotor response time (VMRT) calculated via video-analysis and with the FitlightTM-hardware and software respectively during the Reactive Balance Test (RBT). Results: No data was excluded from the final analysis. Patients with CAI exhibited significantly lower accuracy than healthy controls, with a mean difference of 8.7% (+/- 3.0)%. There were no differences for VMRT between groups. Additionally, no significant differences were observed between the affected and contralateral limb of the patient group for both accuracy and VMRT. Conclusions: Patients with CAI showed lower accuracy, but similar VMRT compared to healthy controls during a neurocognitive balance task, indicating impaired neurocognitive function. Patients exhibit comparable speed to healthy individuals when completing neurocognitive balance tasks, yet they display a higher frequency of accuracy errors in accurately perceiving their environment and making decisions under time constraints. Future research should gain more insights in which other cognitive domains are affected in patients with CAI for a better grasp of this condition's underlying mechanism.		[Maricot, Alexandre; Corluy, Hortense; De Pauw, Kevin; Lathouwers, Elke; Meeusen, Romain; Roelands, Bart; Verschueren, Jo; Tassignon, Bruno] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Physiol & Sports Physiotherapy Res Grp, Pl Laan 2, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium; [De Pauw, Kevin; Lathouwers, Elke; Roelands, Bart] Vrije Univ Brussel, Brussels Human Robot Res Ctr BruBot, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium; [Tassignon, Bruno] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Physiol & Sports Physiotherapy Res Grp, Pl Laan 2, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001163962900001	55	Article; Article		
J	Heijboer, Willem M. P.; Weir, Adam; Vuckovic, Zarko; Tol, Johannes L.; Holmich, Per; Serner, Andreas								Clinical examination tests for adductor- and pubic-related groin pain in athletes with longstanding groin pain: Inter-examiner reliability and prevalence of positive tests								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				66				9	16		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.12.008			MAR 2024	2024	Objectives: Evaluate the inter-examiner reliability of pain provocation tests for hip adductors (palpation, stretch and resistance) and for pubic symphysis (palpation) in athletes with longstanding groin pain, and to determine the prevalence of positive tests. Design: Inter-examiner reliability. Setting: Orthopaedic and sports medicine hospital. Participants: Male athletes with longstanding groin pain. Main outcome measures: Inter-examiner reliability, absolute/positive/negative agreement, and the mean prevalence of positive tests for athletes classified with adductor- and pubic-related groin pain were calculated. Results: We included 44 male athletes with longstanding groin pain (61 symptomatic sides). The mean age was 29 years (+/- 6) and 70% were soccer players. Inter-examiner reliability was slight to moderate for adductor palpation (Cohen's Kappa statistic(kappa)) = 0.02-0.54) and pubic palpation (kappa = 0.37-0.45); moderate for the adductor stretch test (kappa = 0.50), and fair to substantial for adductor resistance tests (kappa = 0.22-0.74). Palpation pain was most prevalent at the adductor longus origin (94%) in athletes classified with adductor-related groin pain. Conclusion: The inter-examiner reliability of palpation tests varied from slight to moderate. The adductor stretch test had a moderate reliability, and adductor resistance tests a fair to substantial reliability. Adductor longus origin is the main site for palpation pain. Adductor palpation tests not related to the adductor longus have limited inter-examiner reliability. The adductor stretch test did not assist in classifying adductor-related groin pain.		[Heijboer, Willem M. P.; Weir, Adam; Vuckovic, Zarko; Tol, Johannes L.; Serner, Andreas] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Heijboer, Willem M. P.; Tol, Johannes L.] Univ Amsterdam, Acad Ctr Evidence Based Med, Amsterdam IOC Ctr ACHSS, Dept Orthoped Surg & Sports Med,Amsterdam UMC Loca, Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Heijboer, Willem M. P.; Tol, Johannes L.] Amsterdam Movement Sci, Sports, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Weir, Adam] Erasmus MC Univ Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Med, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Weir, Adam] Sport Med & Exercise Clin Haarlem Sport Beweeg Kli, Haarlem, Netherlands; [Holmich, Per] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Dept Orthoped Surg, Amager Hvidovre, Denmark; [Serner, Andreas] Federat Internatl Football Assoc, FIFA Med, Zurich, Switzerland; [Heijboer, Willem M. P.] Univ Amsterdam, Acad Ctr Evidence Based Med, Amsterdam IOC Ctr ACHSS, Dept Orthoped Surg & Sports Med,Amsterdam UMC Loca, Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001164385500001	27	Article; Article		
J	Veiga, Santiago; Braun, Claudia; Qiu, Xiao; Stosic, Jelena; Fuhrmann, Stefan; Kibele, Armin; Fischer, Sebastian								What makes a successful relay start in swimming?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3442	3453		10.1080/14763141.2024.2303787			DEC 1 2024	2024	Despite the mechanical advantage of preparatory movements on the starting block, current evidence questions the start improvements of competitive swimmers with their relay techniques. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to analyse the kinetic and kinematic parameters of a successful relay start. Twenty national- and international-level swimmers performed several relay starts (n = 145) with their preferred technique (short or long-step start) over an instrumented OBS11 starting platform. Trials were classified as successful or non-successful depending on the 10-m times being faster or slower than their individual start. Linear Mixed Models outlined that successful relay starts were characterised (all p < 0.05) by a later (0.04 s) onset of the leg step, a lower (18%) horizontal force during the leg step, and a later (0.03 s) positioning of the hands at the lowest point of the upper-limb backswing. In addition, greater values for the maximal horizontal (12%) and vertical (9%) forces and faster horizontal (4%) and resultant (3%) velocities were detected when driving off the block. These characteristics were also dependent on the relay technique. Unlike individual track starts, swimmers with fast relay starts employed longer preparatory movements on the block to maximise the time of force application and thus the impulse.		[Veiga, Santiago; Qiu, Xiao; Stosic, Jelena] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain; [Braun, Claudia; Qiu, Xiao; Kibele, Armin; Fischer, Sebastian] Univ Kassel, Inst Sports & Sport Sci, Kassel, Germany; [Fuhrmann, Stefan] Hamburg Olymp Training Ctr, Hamburg, Germany; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001142226500001	26	Article; Article		
J	Wirdnam, Matthew; Ferrar, Katia; Mayes, Susan; Macmahon, Clare; Cook, Jill; Rio, Ebonie								"A sprained ankle is the biggest sign of mental fatigue": A qualitative study of the perceptions and experiences of mental fatigue in professional ballet								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				154	161		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.12.006			JAN 2024	2024	Mental fatigue is known to influence endurance, skill, and tactical performance in sport. Research investigating the impact of mental fatigue on tasks that combine physical, cognitive, and aesthetic performance such as professional ballet does not exist. Objective: To understand the perceptions and experiences of mental fatigue in professional ballet. Design: Qualitative, focus groups and semi-structured interviews. Setting: The Australian Ballet. Participants: Thirty-nine professional ballet dancers (53% of the company) and six dance staff members aged 18 years or above (53% female). Main outcome measures: N/a. Results: The average focus group and interview length was 48 +/- 7 min and 41 +/- 8 min. Key categories were; (1) Dancers and dance staff perceive that new learning contributes to mental fatigue, (2) Dancers perceive changes to their mood and perception of effort when they are mentally fatigued, and (3) Dancers and dance staff perceive that mental fatigue negatively affects their physical and cognitive performance and, increases their risk of injury. Conclusion: This is the first study where participants associated mental fatigue with injury risk and provides a springboard to measure the impact of mental fatigue on learning, injury, and performance in professional ballet.		[Wirdnam, Matthew] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Physiotherapy, Plenty Rd & Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Macmahon, Clare] La Trobe Univ, Sch Sports & Exercise Sci, Plenty Rd & Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Mayes, Susan] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Plenty Rd & Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Ferrar, Katia; Cook, Jill; Rio, Ebonie] La Trobe Univ, Sports & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Plenty Rd & Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Wirdnam, Matthew; Ferrar, Katia; Mayes, Susan; Rio, Ebonie] Australian Ballet, Kavanagh St, Southbank, Vic 3006, Australia; [Ferrar, Katia] South Australian Hlth & Med Res Inst, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia; [Wirdnam, Matthew] La Trobe Univ, Hlth Sci 3,Level 5,Plenty Rd &,Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Wirdnam, Matthew] La Trobe Univ, Hlth Sci 3,Level 5,Plenty Rd &,Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001155643700001	47	Article; Article		
J	Guerrero-Henriquez, Juan; Mendez-Rebolledo, Guillermo; Llancaleo, Leandro; Vargas, Martin								Effects of dominance and vision on unipedal balance tests in futsal players using a triaxial accelerometer								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3161	3170		10.1080/14763141.2024.2301987			DEC 1 2024	2024	Optimal postural control improves performance and reduces the risk of injury in futsal. In this context, wearable accelerometers may detect velocity changes of the centre of mass during a task, enabling the analysis of postural control in different environments. This work aimed to determine the influence of vision and dominance on unipodal static postural balance in non-professional athletes. Twenty-four university male futsal players performed a unipodal balance test to assess their body sway using a triaxial accelerometer. To assess dominance, the preferred limb for kicking the ball was considered, while vision was manipulated by asking participants to close their eyes during the test. Root mean square (RMS) and sample entropy (SaEn) of centre of mass variables were analysed. For statistical analysis, a multivariate analysis of variance model was used. Our results suggest an effect of vision, but not of dominance nor the interaction between vision and limb dominance. Specifically, a higher-acceleration RMS in the mediolateral axis was observed, as well as an increased SaEn in the three axes. To conclude, unipodal postural demand in futsal players under visual input suppression was not influenced by their limb dominancy		[Guerrero-Henriquez, Juan; Llancaleo, Leandro; Vargas, Martin] Univ Antofagasta, Fac Hlth Sci, Rehabil & Human Movement Sci Dept, Antofagasta, Chile; [Mendez-Rebolledo, Guillermo] Univ Santo Tomas, Escuela Kinesiol, Fac Salud, Talca, Chile; [Mendez-Rebolledo, Guillermo] Univ Santo Tomas, Fac Salud, Magister Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte Aplicadas Entr, Talca, Chile; [Vargas, Martin] Univ Antofagasta, Fac Hlth Sci, Rehabil & Human Movement Sci Dept, Antofagasta, Chile								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001138566500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Giguere, Debbie; Barnes, Martha; Faught, Brent E.								Association between concussion understanding and stakeholder knowledge translation in collegiate sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1502	1514		10.1177/17479541231224273			AUG 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to determine if there was an association between concussion understanding and stakeholder knowledge translation in collegiate sports following the mandate of Rowan's Law in Ontario, Canada. To our knowledge, this is the first study to examine concussion knowledge translation within a sport network using social network analysis. A cross-sectional design was used to evaluate 76 collegiate athletes (54 females, 21 males, 1 not identified), aged 20.55 years (SD = 3.4) who completed a survey on sport demographics, concussion knowledge and stakeholders who provided concussion information during the sport season. Athlete concussion knowledge scores and reported stakeholders were examined. An average of three key stakeholders provided concussion information to 82% of the varsity athletes in our study. Athletes reported that a coach or athletic trainer most often provided concussion knowledge. Overall, athlete concussion knowledge scores were the same for athletes who sought concussion knowledge from stakeholders and those who did not. Over 95% of athletes in the study did not access the Rowan's Law website for mandated concussion education. These findings suggest that Rowan's Law is hugely neglected resulting in stakeholder knowledge translation having minimal influence on an athletes' understanding of concussions. Future recommendations include verified review of mandated concussion education resources and testing of concussion knowledge for all persons associated with sport in Ontario. Due to the number of athletes seeking concussion knowledge in their varsity athlete network, accurate sport specific resources should be provided to support stakeholders who are in direct contact with athletes.		[Giguere, Debbie; Faught, Brent E.] Brock Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Barnes, Martha] Brock Univ, Dept Recreat & Leisure Studies, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Barnes, Martha] Brock Univ, Dept Recreat & Leisure Studies, St Catharines, ON, Canada								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001141237500001	73	Article; Article		
J	Lantis, Robert; Nesson, Erik								The Hot Hand in the NBA 3-Point Contest: The Importance of Location, Location, Location								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	3			283	321		10.1177/15270025231222630			APR 2024	2024	We investigate the hot hand in the 1986-2019 NBA 3-Point Shooting Contests. Combining repeated shots in a location and shots across locations, the contest mimics game situations without many of the confounding factors. We find that a hot hand exists in the contest, but only for shots within the same location. Streaks of shots increase a hot hand, but only if the player makes his previous shot and has not moved locations. Our results suggest that while a hot hand does exist in basketball shooting, it is only present when shots are taken from the same shooting location.		[Lantis, Robert] Indiana Univ, Dept Econ, Bloomington, IN USA; [Nesson, Erik] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Econ, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Nesson, Erik] NBER, Cambridge, MA USA; [Nesson, Erik] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Econ, Winston Salem, NC 27109 USA; [Nesson, Erik] NBER, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA; [Nesson, Erik] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Econ, Winston Salem, NC 27109 USA; [Nesson, Erik] NBER, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001140156800001	46	Article; Article		
J	Olmez, Cengiz; Hammami, Nadhir; Apaydin, Necdet; Hattabi, Soukaina; Sar, Halit; Khezami, Mehrzia Amani; Ince, Alparslan								Is isokinetic shoulder strength a determinant of serve ball velocity in tennis?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1548	1561		10.1080/14763141.2023.2300315			JUN 3 2025	2025	The tennis serve is closely related to the quality of the tennis match. However, the isokinetic parameters associated with the tennis serve are still unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationships between ball velocity and isokinetic shoulder strength in tennis serve and to determine isokinetic strength parameters that can predict tennis serve velocity. A total of 13 elite male athletes (16.8 +/- 1.5 years) voluntarily participated in the study. The athletes' shoulder internal-external rotation, extension-flexion and abduction-adduction strengths were measured with 5-5-15 repetitions at 60 degrees/s, 180 degrees/s, 240 degrees/s angular velocities. Later, the athletes' 1st, 2nd, and average serve ball speeds were determined using a handheld radar gun. Significant correlations were found between ball speed and isokinetic tennis serve strength (r = 0.556-0.819; p < 0.05). The correlations between ball speed and isokinetic strength performance were higher at 180 degrees/s and 240 degrees/s angular velocities. Extension (240 degrees/s; r = 0.819), flexion (180 degrees/s; r = 0.755), abduction (240 degrees/s; r = 0.733), adduction (240 degrees/s; r = 0.684) and internal rotation (180 degrees/s; r = 0.803) were highly correlated with ball velocity. These findings suggest that strength training to increase the ball speed of the tennis serve should be performed fast at high angular velocities and planning should focus on the strength of extension, flexion, abduction, adduction and internal rotation.		[Olmez, Cengiz; Apaydin, Necdet; Ince, Alparslan] Ordu Univ, Sport Sci Fac, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Ordu, Turkiye; [Hammami, Nadhir] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Kef, Res Unit Sport Sci Hlth & Movement, Le Kef, Tunisia; [Hattabi, Soukaina] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Kef, Jendouba, Tunisia; [Hattabi, Soukaina] Higher Inst Educ Sci Douro ISCE Douro, CI ISCE, Penafiel, Portugal; [Sar, Halit] Sport Sci Fac, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Sinop, Turkiye; [Khezami, Mehrzia Amani] Natl Inst Orthoped Mohamed Kassab, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Manouba, Tunisia; [Olmez, Cengiz] Ordu Univ, Sport Sci Fac, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Ordu, Turkiye								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001138539600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Marsan, Thibault; Landon, Yann; Navarro, Pablo; Watier, Bruno								Performance criteria for para-athletes in fencing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3141	3150		10.1080/14763141.2023.2294724			DEC 1 2024	2024	Wheelchair fencing is an opposition sport on a specific wheelchair, with a fixed distance between the two athletes. As for other Paralympic sports, different categories exist for the different pathologies of the athletes. Searching for biomechanical performance criteria is of primary interest for coaches, recruiters and trainers. Such performance criteria have been highlighted for able-bodied fencers but not for para-fencers. Through transposition, the corresponding parameters for para-fencers would be the weapon speed and the ability to move the trunk forward and backward on their wheelchair. Therefore, the objective of this study was to determine performance criteria for para-fencers. Eleven French para-fencers performed fencing activities with a motion capture system while facing each other, with their own equipment. Different activities were realised to quantify the allonge, the weapon speed, and the torso motion. Only the correlation between the range of motion of the torso and the mass of the athletes wielding an epee was significant ($p = 0.02$p=0.02). The comparison between the different categories showed significant differences for the torso motion, which was not found for the weapon speed. Future studies, with a larger cohort, might help validate, or not, tendencies found in this study.		[Marsan, Thibault; Watier, Bruno] Univ Toulouse, LAAS, CNRS, UPS, Toulouse, France; [Landon, Yann; Navarro, Pablo] Univ Toulouse, Inst Clement Ader ICA, CNRS, IMT Mines Albi,ISAE SUPAERO,UPS, Toulouse, France; [Marsan, Thibault] Univ Toulouse, LAAS, CNRS, UPS, Toulouse, France								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001138596700001	11	Article; Article		
J	Gross, Benjamin D.; Yendluri, Avanish; Iyer, Amogh I.; Patel, Akshar V.; Cagle, Paul J.								Most cited articles involving lacrosse since 1990 primarily focus on concussion and traumatic brain injury								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	5			460	469		10.1080/00913847.2024.2301919			SEP 2 2024	2024	ObjectivesThe purpose of this study was to identify the 50 most-cited publications relating to lacrosse since 1990 and conduct a bibliometric analysis of the identified studiesMethodsClarivate Analytics Web of Science database was queried to identify all publication titles, abstracts, and keywords for the term 'lacrosse' on 9 June 2023. The resulting articles were sorted by total number of citations. Titles and abstracts were included based on their relevance to lacrosse. Once the 50 most cited articles were identified, each article was further analyzed to obtain author name, publication year, country of origin, journal name, article type, research topic, competition level, total number of citations, and the level of evidence. Citation density (total number of citations/years since publication) was calculated and recorded for each of the most-cited studies.ResultsThe 50 most-cited articles were cited 4237 of times with an average of 84 citations per article. The most cited article was cited 637 (15.0%) times. The articles came from 2 different countries, with the United States and Australia comprising 49 and 1 articles, respectively. All articles were published in English. The American Journal of Sports Medicine published the most articles (n = 21, 42.0%). The most studied topic was concussion/traumatic brain injury (n = 18) followed by studies assessing all injuries (n = 7). Collegiate-level lacrosse was the most studied level of competition (n = 22), while high school-level followed (n = 12).ConclusionsThe majority of the 50 most-cited articles related to lacrosse since 1990 focus on the prevalence, diagnosis and identification of concussion/traumatic brain injury in high school and collegiate-level athletes. These articles are predominantly epidemiological or cohort studies with Level III or IV evidence that almost unanimously originate from the United States.		[Gross, Benjamin D.; Yendluri, Avanish; Cagle, Paul J.] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New York, NY USA; [Iyer, Amogh I.; Patel, Akshar V.] Ohio State Univ, Coll Med, Dept Orthopaed, Columbus, OH USA; [Yendluri, Avanish] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 1 Gustave L Levy Pl, New York, NY 10029 USA; [Yendluri, Avanish] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 1 Gustave L Levy Pl, New York, NY 10029 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001139035000001	104	Article; Article		
J	Doyle, Eoin W.; Doyle, Tim L. A.; Bonacci, Jason; Fuller, Joel T.								Sensor location influences the associations between IMU and motion capture measurements of impact landing in healthy male and female runners at multiple running speeds								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1514	1528		10.1080/14763141.2023.2298954			JUN 3 2025	2025	This study investigated the relationships between inertial measurement unit (IMU) acceleration at multiple body locations and 3D motion capture impact landing measures in runners. Thirty healthy runners ran on an instrumented treadmill at five running speeds (9-17 km/h) during 3D motion capture. Axial and resultant acceleration were collected from IMUs at the distal and proximal tibia, distal femur and sacrum. Relationships between peak acceleration from each IMU location and patellofemoral joint (PFJ) peak force and loading rate, impact peak and instantaneous vertical loading rate (IVLR) were investigated using linear mixed models. Acceleration was positively related to IVLR at all lower limb locations (p < 0.01). Models predicted a 1.9-3.2 g peak acceleration change at the tibia and distal femur, corresponding with a 10% IVLR change. Impact peak was positively related to acceleration at the distal femur only (p < 0.01). PFJ peak force was positively related to acceleration at the distal (p = 0.03) and proximal tibia (p = 0.03). PFJ loading rate was positively related to the tibia and femur acceleration in males only (p < 0.01). These findings suggest multiple IMU lower limb locations are viable for measuring peak acceleration during running as a meaningful indicator of IVLR.		[Doyle, Eoin W.; Doyle, Tim L. A.; Fuller, Joel T.] Macquarie Univ, Fac Med Hlth & Human Sci, Sydney, Australia; [Bonacci, Jason] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sports Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne, Australia; [Doyle, Eoin W.] Macquarie Univ, Fac Med Hlth & Human Sci, Sydney, Australia								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001138522600001	53	Article; Article		
J	Floria, Pablo; Harrison, Andrew J.; Rojo-Alvarez, Jose Luis; Melgarejo-Meseguer, Francisco M.; Sanchez-Sixto, Alberto								Joint movement patterns differ among male recreational runners with different running style								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3418	3429		10.1080/14763141.2023.2298947			DEC 1 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to analyse the differences in joint kinematic patterns among runners with different spatiotemporal characteristics in the running cycle. Lower extremity kinematic data and spatiotemporal stride parameters were collected for ninety-two recreational runners during a treadmill run at a self-selected comfortable speed. A K-means clustering analysis was conducted on normalised stride cadence and Duty Factor to identify running style. Cluster 1 characterised by reduced stance times and low Duty Factor; Cluster 2, long stance times and low stride cadence; Cluster 3, high Duty Factor and stride cadence. Functional principal component analysis was used to identify patterns of variability between runners. Runners who used a combination of high cadence and Duty Factor showed differences in hip, knee and ankle sagittal kinematics compared to other runners. On the contrary, the joint kinematics was not altered when the Duty Factor was increased along with a decrease in the stride cadence. This study has demonstrated that the combination of several spatial-temporal parameters of the running cycle should be considered when analysing the movement pattern of the lower limb.		[Floria, Pablo] Univ Pablo Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Harrison, Andrew J.] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Rojo-Alvarez, Jose Luis; Melgarejo-Meseguer, Francisco M.] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Dept Teoria Senal & Comunicac & Sistemas Telemat &, Fuenlabrada, Spain; [Sanchez-Sixto, Alberto] CEU San Pablo Cardenal Spinola Univ, Sport Dept, Bormujos, Spain; [Sanchez-Sixto, Alberto] CEU San Pablo Cardenal Spinola Univ, Sport Dept, Bormujos, Spain								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001138472100001	24	Article; Article		
J	Leabeater, Alana; Vickery-Howe, Danielle; Perrett, Corey; James, Lachlan; Middleton, Kane; Driller, Matthew								Evaluating the effect of sports compression tights on balance, sprinting, jumping and change of direction tasks								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3269	3285		10.1080/14763141.2023.2298955			NOV 2 2025	2025	Compression garments are commonly used during athletic tasks. However, the effect of compression garments on balance, sprinting, jumping and change of direction performance requires further investigation. In the current study, 24 recreationally active participants (12 males, 12 females, age 27 +/- 3 years) completed single-leg balance tasks, countermovement jumps, drop jumps, 10 m straight line sprints and change of direction tasks wearing either compression tights (COMP) or regular exercise tights (CON). There was a significant main effect of the condition for 10 m sprint time (p = 0.03, d = -0.18) and change of direction time (p = 0.03, d = -0.20) in favour of COMP. In addition, there was a significant, small difference (p = 0.05, d = -0.30) in ellipse area and a small (p = 0.16, d = 0.21) difference in balance time in favour of COMP during a single-leg balance task. There were no significant differences between trials for any of the other balance or jump tests (p > 0.05). The application of compression tights during exercise may offer small benefits to the performance of balance and change of direction tasks, though these benefits are likely within the typical error of measurement for the tests used.		[Leabeater, Alana; Vickery-Howe, Danielle; Perrett, Corey; James, Lachlan; Middleton, Kane; Driller, Matthew] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Leabeater, Alana] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport Performance & Nutr Res Grp, Melbourne, Australia								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001138524700001	48	Article; Article		
J	Feng, Zeyu; Lochhead, Liam; Kohn, Jordan N.; Appelbaum, L. Gregory								Predictors of batting and pitching performance in the USA baseball prospect development pipeline								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1529	1547		10.1080/14763141.2023.2298959			JUN 3 2025	2025	This study examined the relationship between psychomotor abilities and baseball performance by analysing data from 379 athletes who participated in the USA Baseball, Prospect Development Pipeline (PDP). Hit and pitch metrics were generated during practice sessions using the RapsodoTM System. Data were compared through exploratory factor analysis and hierarchical regression. Factor analysis grouped batter's PDP evaluations into four latent variables accounting for 63% of variance. Pitcher performance grouped into three factors accounting for 51% of variance. Regression on batter data revealed a significant demographic/anthropometric base model with height, weight, and age that accounted for 58% of the batted ball speed (R2 = 0.581). Player position explained 2% of the variance (R2 = 0.604), and PDP evaluation scores contributed an additional 3% (R2 = 0.631). Regression of pitcher data showed a significant base demographic/anthropometric model accounting for 36% of fastball pitch speeds (R2 = 0.363), with the PDP evaluation scores adding 6% additional variance (R2 = 0.424). Uniformly, assessments of lower body strength added the greatest predictive information. Hand grip strength did not correlate with pitch metrics. While demographics/anthropometrics are major contributors to batted and pitched ball speed, position and psychomotor variables add statistically significant contributions and may be of practical value for player selection.		[Feng, Zeyu; Lochhead, Liam; Appelbaum, L. Gregory] Univ Calif San Diego, Dept Psychiat, Human Performance Optimizat Lab, San Diego, CA USA; [Kohn, Jordan N.; Appelbaum, L. Gregory] Univ Calif San Diego, Herbert Wertheim Sch Publ Hlth & Human Longev Sci, San Diego, CA 92093 USA; [Appelbaum, L. Gregory] Univ Calif San Diego, Herbert Wertheim Sch Publ Hlth & Human Longev Sci, San Diego, CA 92093 USA								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001138465000001	22	Article; Article		
J	Roach, Michael A.; Owens, Mark F.								Updating Beliefs Based on Observed Performance: Evidence From NFL Head Coaches								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	3			369	387		10.1177/15270025231222633			APR 2024	2024	We utilize play-by-play data from the National Football League to examine coaching decisions on fourth down and how sensitive they are to information on situational success and their competitive environment. Prior fourth down successes and failures within a game influence coaches in a way consistent with the notion that recent information is more salient to these coaches when making decisions and a belief in in-game momentum. Coaches are more sensitive to fourth down failures than successes, and our findings suggest this sensitivity to prior failures leads to suboptimal fourth down decisions later in the game. This finding is generally driven by the behavior of coaches with a background in coaching offense, suggesting the availability heuristic is particularly potent for managers who are more involved and, perhaps, more accountable for the details of fourth down plays. We suspect these patterns are prevalent in a wide range of managerial contexts.		[Roach, Michael A.] Middle Tennessee State Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, Murfreesboro, TN USA; [Owens, Mark F.] Penn State Behrend, Dept Econ & Finance, Erie, PA USA; [Owens, Mark F.] Penn State Behrend, Black Sch Business, Dept Econ & Finance, 5101 Jordan Rd, Erie, PA 16563 USA; [Owens, Mark F.] Penn State Behrend, Black Sch Business, Dept Econ & Finance, 5101 Jordan Rd, Erie, PA 16563 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001136785100001	20	Article; Article		
J	Glendon, K.; Pain, M. T. G.; Belli, A.; Blenkinsop, G.								Musculoskeletal injury or Sports-Related Concussion (SRC) in a season of rugby union does not affect performance on concussion battery testing in university-aged student-athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				137	144		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.12.005			JAN 2024	2024	Background: Sub-concussive and concussive impacts sustained during contact sports such as rugby may affect neurocognitive performance, vestibular-ocular-motor function, symptom burden and academic ability. Method: Student-athletes (n = 146) participating in rugby union British Universities or domestic competitions were assessed on the Immediate Post-Concussion and Cognitive Test, Post-Concussion Symptom Scale, vestibular-oculo-motor screening tool and revised perceived academic impact tool. Individual change from pre-season (July-September 2021) to 2-weeks following last exposure to contact (April-July 2022) was analysed. Results: Symptom burden significantly worsened (p=0.016) over the season. Significant improvements on verbal memory (p=0.016), visual memory (p=0.008) and motor processing speed (p=0.001) suggest a possible learning effect. Surprisingly, the number of days lost to concussion significantly and positively affected performance on verbal memory (p = 0.018) and reaction time (p = 0.027). Previous concussive events significantly predicted a worsening in symptom burden (p < 0.028), as did in-season concussive events, predicting improved verbal memory (p = 0.033) and symptom burden change (p = 0.047). Baseline performance significantly affected change on several neurocognitive tests, with low-scorers showing more improvement over the season. Conclusion: Participation in rugby union was not associated with deleterious effects on brain function. Previous concussive events and in-season factors, possibly related to learning effects, may explain improvement in cognitive function across the season.		[Glendon, K.; Pain, M. T. G.; Blenkinsop, G.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Belli, A.] Univ Birmingham, Inst Inflammat & Ageing, Birmingham, England; [Glendon, K.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001155791400001	71	Article; Article		
J	Neal, Bradley S.; Bramah, Christopher; McCarthy-Ryan, Molly F.; Moore, Isabel S.; Napier, Christopher; Paquette, Max R.; Gruber, Allison H.								Using wearable technology data to explain recreational running injury: A prospective longitudinal feasibility study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				130	136		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.12.010			JAN 2024	2024	Objectives: Investigate 1) if collecting and analysing wristwatch inertial measurement unit (IMU) and global positioning system (GPS) data using a commercially-available training platform was feasible in recreational runners and 2) which variables were associated with subsequent injury. Design: Prospective longitudinal cohort. Participants: Healthy recreational runners. Main outcome measures: We set a priori feasibility thresholds for recruitment (maximum six-months), acceptance (minimum 80%), adherence (minimum 70%), and data collection (minimum 80%). Participants completed three patient-reported outcome measures (PROMS) detailing their psychological health, sleep quality, and intrinsic motivation to run. We extracted baseline anthropometric, biomechanical, metabolic, and training load data from their IMU/GPS wristwatch for analysis. Participants completed a weekly injury status surveillance questionnaire over the next 12-weeks. Feasibility outcomes were analysed descriptively and injured versus non-injured group differences with 95% confidence intervals were calculated for PROM/IMU/GPS data. Results: 149 participants consented; 86 participants completed (55 men, 31 women); 21 developed an injury (0.46 injuries/1000km). Feasibility outcomes were satisfied (recruitment = 47 days; acceptance = 133/149 [89%]; adherence = 93/133 [70%]; data collection = 86/93 [92%]). Acute load by calculated effort was associated with subsequent injury (mean difference -562.14, 95% CI -1019.42, -21.53). Conclusion: Collecting and analysing wristwatch IMU/GPS data using a commercially-available training platform was feasible in recreational runners.		[Neal, Bradley S.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England; [Bramah, Christopher] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Human Movement & Rehabil, Salford, England; [Bramah, Christopher] Manchester Inst Hlth & Performance, Manchester, England; [McCarthy-Ryan, Molly F.; Moore, Isabel S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Napier, Christopher] Simon Fraser Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Paquette, Max R.] Univ Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152 USA; [Gruber, Allison H.] Indiana Univ, Sch Publ Hlth Bloomington, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Neal, Bradley S.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001154380400001	32	Article; Article		
J	Vaz, Joao R.; Cortes, Nelson; Gomes, Joao S.; Reis, Joana F.; Stergiou, Nick								Stride-to-stride variability is altered when running to isochronous visual cueing but remains unaltered with fractal cueing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3628	3640		10.1080/14763141.2023.2298958			DEC 1 2024	2024	Running synchronised to external cueing is often implemented in both clinical and training settings, and isochronous cueing has been shown to improve running economy. However, such cueing disregards the natural stride-to-stride fluctuations present in human locomotion which is thought to reflect higher levels of adaptability. The present study aimed to investigate how alterations in the temporal structure of cueing affect stride-to-stride variability during running. We hypothesised that running using cueing with a fractal-like structure would preserve the natural stride-to-stride variability of young adults. Thirteen runners performed four 8-min trials: one uncued (UNC) trial and three cued trials presenting an isochronous (ISO), a fractal (FRC) and a random (RND) structure. Repeated measures ANOVAs were used to identify changes in the dependent variables. We have found no main effect on the cardiorespiratory parameters, whereas a significant main effect was observed in the temporal structure of stride-to-stride variability. During FRC, the participants were able to retain the fractal patterns of their natural locomotor variability observed during the UNC condition, while during the ISO and RND they exhibited more random of fluctuations (i.e., lower values of fractal scaling). Our results demonstrate that cueing based on the natural stride-to-stride fluctuations opens new avenues for training and rehabilitation.		[Vaz, Joao R.; Gomes, Joao S.] Egas Moniz Cooperat Ensino Super, Ctr Invest Interdisciplinar Egas Moniz CiiEM, Monte De Caparica, Portugal; [Vaz, Joao R.; Gomes, Joao S.; Reis, Joana F.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Vaz, Joao R.; Stergiou, Nick] Univ Nebraska Omaha, Dept Biomech, Div Biomech & Res Dev, Omaha, NE 68182 USA; [Vaz, Joao R.; Stergiou, Nick] Univ Nebraska Omaha, Ctr Res Human Movement Variabil, Omaha, NE 68182 USA; [Cortes, Nelson] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Cortes, Nelson] George Mason Univ, Dept Bioengn, Fairfax, VA USA; [Vaz, Joao R.] Egas Moniz Cooperat Ensino Super, Ctr Invest Interdisciplinar Egas Moniz CiiEM, Monte De Caparica, Portugal; [Vaz, Joao R.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Vaz, Joao R.] Univ Nebraska Omaha, Dept Biomech, Div Biomech & Res Dev, Omaha, NE 68182 USA; [Vaz, Joao R.] Univ Nebraska Omaha, Ctr Res Human Movement Variabil, Omaha, NE 68182 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001137653900001	40	Article; Article		
J	Matijevich, Emily S.; Honert, Eric C.; Yang, Fan; Lam, Wing-Kai; Nigg, Benno M.								Greater foot and footwear mechanical work associated with less ankle joint work during running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	6			1495	1513		10.1080/14763141.2023.2296916			JUN 3 2025	2025	Footwear energy storage and return is often suggested as one explanation for metabolic energy savings when running in Advanced Athletic Footwear. However, there is no common understanding of how footwear energy storage and return facilitates changes in muscle and joint kinetics. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the magnitude and timing of foot, footwear and lower limb joint powers and work while running in Advanced and Traditional Athletic Footwear. Fifteen runners participated in an overground motion analysis study. Since footwear kinetics are methodologically challenging to quantify, we leveraged distal rearfoot power analyses ('foot + footwear' power) and evaluated changes in the magnitude and timing of foot + footwear power and lower limb joint powers. Running in Advanced Footwear resulted in greater foot + footwear work, compared to Traditional Shoes, and lower positive ankle work, potentially reducing the muscular demand on the runner. The timing of foot + footwear power varied only slightly across footwear. There are exciting innovation opportunities to manipulate the timing of footwear energy and return. This study demonstrates the research value of quantifying time-series foot + footwear power, and points industry developers towards footwear innovation opportunities.		[Matijevich, Emily S.; Honert, Eric C.; Nigg, Benno M.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Yang, Fan] Li Ning Sports Sci Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Lam, Wing-Kai] Shenyang Sport Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Shenyang, Peoples R China; [Matijevich, Emily S.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001137630000001	41	Article; Article		
J	Humphreys, Brad R.; Chikish, Yulia; von Allmen, Peter								Should I Stay or Should I Go Pro? Early NFL Draft Entry by NCAA FBS Underclassmen								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	3			346	368		10.1177/15270025231222632			APR 2024	2024	Some college players face the tradeoff between continuing their education and entering the draft and forfeiting college eligibility. Little empirical research focuses on this "stay or go pro" decision. We analyze early draft entry decisions made by college football underclassmen with remaining eligibility over the 2007/08-2018/19 seasons. Regression results support both the human capital explanation for early draft entry in that players acquiring more human capital in the previous season by playing in more games increases the likelihood of early entry and the option value perspective in that playing on a more successful team increases the likelihood of early entry.		[Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Chikish, Yulia] SUNY, Purchase Coll, Dept Econ, Purchase, NY USA; [von Allmen, Peter] Skidmore Coll, Dept Econ, Saratoga Springs, NY USA; [Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001136241000001	18	Article; Article		
J	Woorons, Xavier; Daussin, Frederic; Combes, Adrien; Mucci, Patrick								Physiological Responses to Supramaximal Running Exercise with End-Expiratory Breath Holding up to the Breaking Point								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			111	123		10.5114/jhk/174465			JAN 2024	2024	This study aimed to assess the physiological responses to repeated running exercise performed at supramaximal intensity and with end-expiratory breath holding (EEBH) up to the breaking point. Eight male runners participated in two running testing sessions on a motorized treadmill. In the first session, participants performed two sets of 8 repetitions at 125% of maximal aerobic velocity and with maximum EEBH. Each repetition started at the onset of EEBH and ended at its release. In the second session, participants replicated the same procedure, but with unrestricted breathing (URB). The change in cerebral and muscle oxygenation (Delta[Hbdiff]), total haemoglobin concentration (Delta[THb]) and muscle reoxygenation were continuously assessed. End-tidal oxygen (PETO2) and carbon dioxide pressure (PETCO2), arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2) and heart rate (HR) were also measured throughout exercise. On average, EEBH was maintained for 10.1 +/- 1 s. At the breaking point of EEBH, PETO2 decreased to 54.1 +/- 8 mmHg, whereas PETCO2 increased to 74.8 +/- 3.1 mmHg. At the end of repetitions, SpO2 (nadir values 74.9 +/- 5.0 vs. 95.7 +/- 0.8%) and HR were lower with EEBH than with URB. Cerebral and muscle Delta[Hbdiff] were also lower with EEBH, whereas this condition induced higher cerebral and muscle Delta[THb] and greater muscle reoxygenation. This study showed that performing repeated bouts of supramaximal running exercises with EEBH up to the breaking point induced a fall in arterial, cerebral and muscle oxygenation compared with the URB condition. These phenomena were accompanied by increases in regional blood volume likely resulting from compensatory vasodilation to preserve oxygen delivery to the brain and muscles.		[Woorons, Xavier; Daussin, Frederic; Combes, Adrien; Mucci, Patrick] Univ Lille, Univ Artois, Univ Littoral Cate Opale, URePSSS Unite Rech Pluridisciplinaire Sport Sante, Lille, France; [Woorons, Xavier] Univ Lille, Univ Artois, Univ Littoral Cate Opale, URePSSS Unite Rech Pluridisciplinaire Sport Sante, Lille, France								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600009	37	Article; Article		
J	Bartolomeu, Raul Filipe; Rodrigues, Pedro; Sokolowski, Kamil; Strzala, Marek; Santos, Catarina Costa; Costa, Mario Jorge; Barbosa, Tiago Manuel								Nonlinear Analysis of the Hand and Foot Force-Time Profiles in the Four Competitive Swimming Strokes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			71	88		10.5114/jhk/172616			JAN 2024	2024	Human locomotion on water depends on the force produced by the swimmer to propel the body forward. Performance of highly complex motor tasks like swimming can yield minor variations that only nonlinear analysis can be sensitive enough to detect. The purpose of the present study was to examine the nonlinear properties of the hand/feet forces and describe their variations across the four competitive swimming strokes performing segmental and full-body swimming. Swimmers performed all-out bouts of 25 m in the four swimming strokes, swimming the full-body stroke, with the arm-pull only and with the leg kicking only. Hand/foot force and swimming velocity were measured. The Higuchi's fractal dimension (HFD) and sample entropy (SampEn) were used for the nonlinear analysis of force and velocity. Both the arm-pull and leg kicking alone were found to produce similar peak and mean hand/foot forces as swimming the full-body stroke. Hand force was more complex in breaststroke and butterfly stroke; conversely, kicking conditions were more complex in front crawl and backstroke. Moreover, the arm-pull and kicking alone tended to be more complex (higher HFD) but more predictable (lower SampEn) than while swimming the full-body stroke. There was no loss of force production from segmental swimming to the full-body counterpart. In conclusion, the number of segments in action influences the nonlinear behavior of the force produced and, when combining the four limbs, the complexity of the hand/foot force tends to decrease.		[Bartolomeu, Raul Filipe] Polytech Inst Guarda, Dept Sports Sci, Guarda, Portugal; [Bartolomeu, Raul Filipe; Barbosa, Tiago Manuel] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Braganca, Portugal; [Bartolomeu, Raul Filipe; Santos, Catarina Costa; Barbosa, Tiago Manuel] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Rodrigues, Pedro] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Sokolowski, Kamil; Strzala, Marek] Univ Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Water Sports, Krakow, Poland; [Santos, Catarina Costa] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Costa, Mario Jorge] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Costa, Mario Jorge] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP UP, Porto, Portugal; [Bartolomeu, Raul Filipe] Polytech Inst Guarda, Dept Sports Sci, Guarda, Portugal; [Bartolomeu, Raul Filipe] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Braganca, Portugal; [Bartolomeu, Raul Filipe] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600006	71	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Joongsuk J.; Delmas, Stefan; Choi, Yoon Jin; Hubbard, Jessica C.; Weintraub, Michelle; Arabatzi, Fotini; Yacoubi, Basma; Christou, Evangelos A.								Unique Neural Mechanisms Underlying Speed Control of Low-Force Ballistic Contractions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1						10.5114/jhk/182889			JAN 2024	2024	According to the speed-control hypothesis, the rate of force development (RFD) during ballistic contractions is dictated by force amplitude because time to peak force (TPF) remains constant regardless of changes in force amplitude. However, this hypothesis has not been tested at force levels below 20% of an individual's maximum voluntary contraction (MVC). Here, we examined the relationship between the RFD and force amplitude from 2 to 85% MVC and the underlying structure of muscle activity in 18 young adults. Participants exerted ballistic index finger abductions for 50 trials in each of seven randomly assigned force levels (2, 5, 15, 30, 50, 70, and 85% MVC). We quantified TPF, RFD, and various EMG burst characteristics. Contrary to the speed-control hypothesis, we found that TPF was not constant, but significantly varied from 2 to 85% MVC. Specifically, the RFD slope from 2 to 15% MVC was greater than the RFD slope from 30 to 85% MVC. Longer TPF at low force levels was associated with the variability of EMG burst duration, whereas longer TPF with higher force levels was associated with the EMG burst integral. Contrary to the speed-control hypothesis, we found that the regulation of TPF for low and high force levels was different, suggesting that neuronal variability is critical for force levels below 30% MVC and neuronal amplitude for force levels above 30% MVC. These findings present compelling new evidence highlighting the limitations of the speed-control hypothesis underscoring the need for a new theoretical framework.		[Kim, Joongsuk J.; Delmas, Stefan; Choi, Yoon Jin; Hubbard, Jessica C.; Weintraub, Michelle; Yacoubi, Basma; Christou, Evangelos A.] Univ Florida, Dept Appl Physiol & Kinesiol, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Arabatzi, Fotini] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci Serres, Serres, Greece; [Christou, Evangelos A.] Univ Florida, Norman Fixel Inst Neurol Disorders, Dept Neurol, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Christou, Evangelos A.] Univ Florida, Dept Appl Physiol & Kinesiol, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Christou, Evangelos A.] Univ Florida, Norman Fixel Inst Neurol Disorders, Dept Neurol, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600003	33	Article; Article		
J	Seo, Myong-Won; Park, Tae-Young; Jung, Hyun Chul								Sex Differences in Heart Rate Variability and Vascular Function Following High-Intensity Interval Training in Young Adults								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			89	100		10.5114/jhk/170964			JAN 2024	2024	High -intensity interval training (HIIT) is superior to other training strategies in both male and female healthy individuals. Understanding sex -specific differences in cardiac auto -regulation may contribute to the optimal training strategies for HIIT. The present study aimed to identify sex differences in heart rate variability (HRV) and vascular function following HIIT in young adults. Twenty-four physically active young male and female adults (M: 12, F: 12, age: 19.5 yr, BMI: 22.1 kg center dot m-2) volunteered to participate in the study. Participants performed 10 bouts of HIIT including 20 s of high -intensity cycling at 115-130% Wmax followed by 100 s of recovery. The cardiac auto -regulations including HRV and vascular function were measured at five different time points. The R -R interval, rMSSD, and SDNN were recovered faster in males than in females after 15 min of HIIT. There were sex differences in the autonomic nervous system where ln LF and ln HF activities along with sympathovagal balance (ln LF/HF) were greater in females compared with males immediately and 15 min after HIIT. However, no significant differences in blood pressure and brachial -ankle pulse wave velocity were observed between male and female participants. Overall, HRV was more activated in females than in males following HIIT, but the acute response in vascular function was not different between sexes. In future studies, sexspecific adaptations of cardiac auto regulation following repeated HIIT may need to be performed.		[Seo, Myong-Won] Syracuse Univ, David B Falk Coll Sport & Human Dynam, Dept Exercise Sci, Syracuse, NY USA; [Park, Tae-Young] Kyung Hee Univ, Grad Sch, Dept Phys Educ, Yoingin Si, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Sports Sci Res Ctr, Yongin, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports Coaching, Yoinin Si, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Sports Sci Res Ctr, Yongin, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Jung, Hyun Chul] Kyung Hee Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports Coaching, Yoinin Si, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600007	32	Article; Article		
J	Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Yousefian, Farzad; Illa, Jordi; Couceiro, Micael; Sampaio, Jaime; Travassos, Bruno								The Effects of Players' Rotations on High-Intensity Activities in Professional Futsal Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			215	226		10.5114/jhk/169522			JAN 2024	2024	The current study aimed to investigate the effects of interchange rotations on players` physical performance during competition, with special reference to high-intensity activity (HIA) according to the playing position. Physical performance data, collected from 19 professional players during seven official matches from the Spanish futsal league using a portable local positioning system, included the number of high-speed running activities (>18 km<middle dot>h(-1)), high-intensity accelerations (>3 m<middle dot>s(-2)), and high-intensity decelerations (>3 m<middle dot>s(-2)). Statistically significant (p <= 0.05) differences were observed in the number of HIA efforts across rotations and between positions. Players performed more HIA efforts in the first rotation (n = 17.6), suggesting that their first rotation was more demanding than all subsequent rotations. Wingers demonstrated a higher HIA effort and frequency of HIA efforts when compared to defenders (p <= 0.05) and pivots (p <= 0.001). For all positions, the first rotation was more physically demanding as the number of HIA efforts per rotation decreased with an increased number of rotations throughout the match. Furthermore, higher HIA profile positions, such as wingers and defenders, were less likely to maintain consistent HIA properties (repetition number, time-frequency, and the work-rate) across subsequent rotations during the match. The findings of the study can inform coaching decisions regarding players' rotations to maintain consistent HIA performance throughout the match.		[Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Yousefian, Farzad; Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Yousefian, Farzad; Sampaio, Jaime; Travassos, Bruno] Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Creativelab Res Community, Vila Real, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Yousefian, Farzad; Travassos, Bruno] Portugal Football Sch, Portuguese Football Federat, Oeiras, Portugal; [Illa, Jordi] Futbol Club Barcelona, Sport Sci Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Couceiro, Micael] Ingeniarius Lda, Alfena, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Joao Nuno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Joao Nuno] Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Creativelab Res Community, Vila Real, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Joao Nuno] Portugal Football Sch, Portuguese Football Federat, Oeiras, Portugal								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600016	36	Article; Article		
J	Varjan, Matej; Hank, Mikulas; Kalata, Maros; Chmura, Pawel; Mala, Lucia; Zahalka, Frantisek								Weekly Training Load Differences between Starting and Non-Starting Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			125	135		10.5114/jhk/171449			JAN 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to examine the differences in the weekly training load between starters and non -starters classified based on the match starting line -up, with respect to the playing position and a training day. Notably, 31 young adult soccer players (age: 18.79 +/- 1.04 years) competing in the 3(rd) Czech division were monitored across the season. The weekly training load was measured using a GPS system as follows: total distance covered (TD), high -speed running distance (HSR), sprint running distance (SR), and acceleration and deceleration distance (ACDC). We found higher values in three out of four observed variables (HSR, SR, and ACDC, excluding TD) for starters compared to non -starters (p < 0.05), with small to moderate effect sizes (d = 0.40-0.49). Differences were observed especially in players who were fullbacks, offensive midfielders, and forwards. Moreover, the largest differences were found in training prior to a match day for HSR, SR, and ACDC (p < 0.05). Non -starters experienced lower weekly external loads in offensive player positions, predominantly in high-intensity variables, which are essential for their physical performance. It seems that non -starters may experience potential under-loading in the training process. Coaches and practitioners should be aware of this potential risk and find an appropriate method to compensate for load discrepancies, particularly in terms of highintensity activities.		[Varjan, Matej; Hank, Mikulas; Kalata, Maros; Mala, Lucia; Zahalka, Frantisek] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Sport Res Ctr, Prague, Czech Republic; [Chmura, Pawel] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Team Games, Wroclaw, Poland; [Chmura, Pawel] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Team Games, Wroclaw, Poland								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600010	35	Article; Article		
J	Ortiz, Jaelson Goncalves; de Lucas, Ricardo Dantas; Teixeira, Anderson Santiago; Mohr, Pedro Augusto; Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme Antonacci								The Effects of a Supramaximal Intermittent Training Program on Aerobic and Anaerobic Running Measures in Junior Male Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			253	267		10.5114/jhk/170755			JAN 2024	2024	This study investigated the effectiveness of supplementing regular preseason soccer training with a supramaximal intermittent shuttle -run training (ISRT) model prescribed from Carminatti's Test peak speed (PST -CAR) in aerobic performance -related indices and sprinting speed in male junior soccer players. Twenty-three national -level soccer players (mean +/- SD; age 18.07 +/- 0.9 y, body height 1.76 +/- 0.65 m, body mass 71.9 +/- 8.7 kg) were assigned to either an experimental group (EG; n = 13) performing ISRT + soccer training or a control group (CG; n = 10) that followed regular preseason soccer training alone. The following tests were applied before and after the eight -week training intervention: (i) incremental treadmill tests (VO2maxand lactate minimum speed - LMS); (ii) linear 30-m sprint test and Carminatti's Test (PST -CAR). Results indicated larger gains for the EG in LMS (A = 9.53% vs. 2.82%) and PST -CAR (A = 5.50% vs. 2.10%) than in the CG. Furthermore, changes in VO2maxproduced higher effect size (d) values for the EG (A = 6.67%; d = 0.59) than the CG (A = 1.88%; d = 0.18). Both groups improved (p = 0.002) their flying 20-m sprint speed (EG: A = 1.01%; CG: A = 1.56%). However, small decreases were observed for 10-m sprint speed in the CG (A = -2.19%; d = -0.44), while only trivial changes were noticed for the EG (A = -0.50%; d = -0.16). Our data support that additional supramaximal ISRT is an effective training stimulus to enhance aerobic performance -related indices and promote small improvements in maximal running speed without impairing the soccer players' acceleration capacity. This study also shows that PST -CAR can be useful for individualizing running intensity in supramaximal ISRT modes.		[Ortiz, Jaelson Goncalves; de Lucas, Ricardo Dantas; Teixeira, Anderson Santiago; Mohr, Pedro Augusto; Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme Antonacci] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Phys Effort Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Teixeira, Anderson Santiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Res Grp Dev Football & Futsal, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Teixeira, Anderson Santiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Phys Effort Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Teixeira, Anderson Santiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Res Grp Dev Football & Futsal, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600019	42	Article; Article		
J	Veiga, Santiago; Qiu, Xiao; Trinidad, Alfonso; Dolek, Burcu Ertas; Rubia, Alfonso de la; Navarro, Enrique								Effect of the Skill, Gender, and Kick Order on the Kinematic Characteristics of Underwater Undulatory Swimming in the Dorsal Position								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			45	56		10.5114/jhk/168600			JAN 2024	2024	Backstroke swimmers display the greatest contribution of underwater kicking during the swimming race distances, but, surprisingly, there is little evidence of how kicking kinematics in the dorsal position should be performed. The aim of the present study was to examine the kinematic characteristics of competitive swimmers during underwater undulatory swimming in the dorsal position, with special attention to the swimmers' gender, the level of skill, and kick order. Forty-one national-level swimmers (27 females and 14 males) were filmed from an underwater lateral view while performing a 25-m backstroke from a push start, and they were divided into fast and slow groups according to their kicking velocity. Direct linear algorithms were employed to reconstruct the two-dimensional kinematic characteristics of the first and final kicks of the underwater section. There were no differences between males and females in kicking performance when data were normalised to the swimmers' height. However, swimmers in the fast-kicking group were distinguished by a greater kicking frequency (r12: 0.15) and specific segmental kinematics related to a lower knee range of motion. Swimmers decreased kicking velocity (r12: 0.47) in addition to the kicking frequency (r12: 0.31) and length (r12: 0.16), but increased the kicking amplitude (r12: 0.11) between the first and the final kicks. Changes in kicking segmental kinematics were more related to modification in body orientation during the underwater trajectory than to the kicking motion itself. These results provide the first solid evidence of how swimmers should kick for better performance in dorsal underwater swimming.		[Veiga, Santiago; Qiu, Xiao; Rubia, Alfonso de la] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain; [Qiu, Xiao] Univ Kassel, Inst Sports & Sport Sci, Kassel, Germany; [Trinidad, Alfonso] Univ Europea, Dept Educ & Humanidades, Grp Invest AquaLab, Madrid, Spain; [Dolek, Burcu Ertas] Ankara Univ, Sport Sci Dept, Ankara, Turkiye; [Navarro, Enrique] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Salud & Rendimiento Humano, Madrid, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600004	32	Article; Article		
J	de Dios-Alvarez, Vicente; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel; Rey, Ezequiel								Effects of Different Recovery Duration on External and Internal Load Measures during Bouts of Small-Sided Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			151	159		10.5114/jhk/169520			JAN 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to analyse the effects of different recovery times between bouts of small-sided games (SSG) on external and internal load variables in semi-professional soccer players. Sixteen male semi-professional soccer players performed three 4 vs. 4 + goalkeeper SSG training sessions, each with different recovery bout duration: short (1 min) (SSG1), medium (2 min) (SSG2), and long (4 min) (SSG4). Time motion and neuromuscular measures were collected during all SSGs, in addition, the rating of perceived exertion (RPE) was determined at the end of the last bout of each SSG. Results showed a significant increase in the total number of accelerations (p = 0.016, ES = 0.97, large) and decelerations (p = 0.022, ES = 0.81, large) in SSG4 compared to SSG1. In terms of the internal load, SSG2 showed significantly higher RPE values (p = 0.011, ES = 1.00, large) in comparison with SSG1. If the sessions' focus is on neuromuscular training, longer recovery times between SSG bouts should be used. Conversely, if the aim is to reach a higher total and running distance at different intensities, a 2-min recovery period between bouts may be more appropriate.		[de Dios-Alvarez, Vicente; Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel; Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [de Dios-Alvarez, Vicente] Methodol Dept, Real Club Celta, Vigo, Pontevedra, Spain; [Padron-Cabo, Alexis] Univ A Corun, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, La Coruna, Spain; [de Dios-Alvarez, Vicente; Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [de Dios-Alvarez, Vicente] Methodol Dept, Real Club Celta, Vigo, Pontevedra, Spain								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600012	33	Article; Article		
J	Rodriguez-Gomez, Pablo; Gallo-Salazar, Cesar; Salinero, Juan Jose								Prospective and Retrospective Analysis of the Sporting Success of Elite Spanish High and Long Jumpers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			161	168		10.5114/jhk/170762			JAN 2024	2024	The aim of the present study was to analyze the sporting progression from U14 to senior categories of elite Spanish high and long jumpers. For prospective analysis, 300 athletes ranked top 20 at U14 were analyzed (153 female and 147 male). For retrospective analysis, 64 athletes ranked in the top 20 in the senior category were included (21 female and 43 male). Ranking positions were registered in each of the seasons where they presented records. Only 6.3% (19) of athletes who reached the top 20 at U14 became successful senior athletes [4.7% (14) of athletes maintained top 20 status throughout their sporting careers from U14 to senior]. The transition rate from U14 to U16 (35.7%) was the most severe drop down in consecutive categories (after this, it ranged from 47.8 to 66.7%). Of the senior top 20 athletes (64), most of them were already ranked top 20 at U16 (59.4%, 38), at U18 (62.5%, 40), at U20 (70.3%, 45) and at U23 (78.1%, 50). Nevertheless, only 34.4% (22) were top 20 when they were U14 athletes. Transition rates in the top 20 senior athletes ranged from 86.7 to 95.5%. Around one out of four (26.6%, 17) of the top 20 senior athletes maintained top 20 status throughout their sporting careers from U14 to the senior category. Although early success is not a good predictor of senior success, successful senior athletes excelled early on and were able to remain in top rankings throughout their sporting careers of national elite jumpers.		[Rodriguez-Gomez, Pablo; Gallo-Salazar, Cesar; Salinero, Juan Jose] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Exercise Physiol Lab, Madrid, Spain; [Salinero, Juan Jose] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sports Sci, Sports Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Gallo-Salazar, Cesar] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Exercise Physiol Lab, Madrid, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600013	28	Article; Article		
J	Brown, Mathew B.; Peters, Russell; Lauder, Mike A.								Contribution of Trunk Rotation and Abdominal Muscles to Sprint Kayak Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			5	15		10.5114/jhk/1699395			JAN 2024	2024	Over the past two decades the importance of trunk contribution to sporting performance has been highlighted through the expanse of literature concerning core stability and strength. However, the role of trunk motion and the abdominal muscles are yet to be established during sprint kayak performance. The purpose of this study was to determine the associations among trunk rotation, kayak velocity, and abdominal muscle activity during on-water sprint kayaking. Eight international paddlers completed five 150 m sprint trials. During each trial peak muscle activation (peak rootmean-squared electromyogram) of the latissimus dorsi, rectus abdominus, external obliques and rectus femoris for ipsilateral (stroke side) and contralateral (opposite side) were recorded as the paddler passed through a 5-m calibrated volume, in conjunction with upper and lower trunk rotation and kayak velocity. Results indicated a significant strong negative relationship between lower trunk rotation and peak velocity (r = -0.684, p < 0.05). Furthermore, a significant strong positive relationship (p < 0.05) with mean velocity was identified for the contralateral rectus abdominus and multiple significant associations between the rectus femoris, rectus abdominus and external obliques during the paddle stroke. Findings indicate that limiting the rotation of the lower trunk will increase both the peak and the mean velocity, with the rectus abdominus, external oblique and rectus femoris combining to assist in this process. Training should therefore focus on developing the strength of these muscle groups to enhance performance.		[Brown, Mathew B.] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Sch Psychol & Life Sci, Canterbury, England; [Peters, Russell] Newman Univ, Dept Sport & Hlth, Birmingham, England; [Lauder, Mike A.] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport Nursing & Allied Hlth, Chichester, England; [Brown, Mathew B.] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Sch Psychol & Life Sci, Canterbury, England								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Loturco, Irineu; Zabaloy, Santiago; Pereira, Lucas A.; Moura, Tulio B. M. A.; Mercer, Valter P.; Fernandes, Victor; Zajac, Adam; Matusinski, Aleksander; Freitas, Tomas T.; Bishop, Chris								Resistance Training Practices of Brazilian Olympic Sprint and Jump Coaches: Toward a Deeper Understanding of Their Choices and Insights (Part III)								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			183	214		10.5114/jhk/182888			JAN 2024	2024	In the final part of this three-article collection on the training strategies of Brazilian Olympic sprint and jump coaches, we provide a detailed description of the resistance training methods and exercises most commonly employed by these speed experts. Always with the objective of maximizing the sprint and jump capabilities of their athletes, these experienced coaches primarily utilize variable, eccentric, concentric, machine-based, isometric, complex, and isoinertial resistance training methods in their daily practices. Squats (in their different forms), Olympic weightlifting, ballistics, hip thrusts, lunges, calf raises, core exercises, leg curls, stiff-leg deadlifts, and leg extension are the most commonly prescribed exercises in their training programs, during both the preparatory and competitive periods. Therefore, the current manuscript comprehensively describes and examines these methods, with the additional aim of extrapolating their application to other sports, especially those where sprint speed is a key performance factor.		[Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Moura, Tulio B. M. A.; Mercer, Valter P.; Fernandes, Victor; Freitas, Tomas T.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Dept Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Pontypridd, Wales; [Zabaloy, Santiago] Univ Flores, Fac Phys Act & Sports, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Zajac, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Matusinski, Aleksander] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Exercise & Sport Performance, Katowice, Poland; [Freitas, Tomas T.] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomas T.] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, Fac Deporte, Murcia, Spain; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Dept Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Pontypridd, Wales								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600015	179	Article; Article		
J	de Villarreal, Eduardo Saez; Rascon, Pedro Bago; Becerra, Manuel Ortega; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Feito-Blanco, Javier; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo								Effects of Sand Surface Plyometric and Sprint Training on Physical and Technical Skill Performance in Beach Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				90	1			227	237		10.5114/jhk/169519			JAN 2024	2024	This study compared the effects of a 6-week combined plyometric and sprint-training program on the sand to regular preseason training, on the athletic performance and technical actions of beach handball (BH) players. Athletes were randomly assigned either to the control (CG, n = 12; BH training only) or the experimental group (EG, n = 12; plyometric + sprint + BH training). Assessments conducted before and after the training period included a squat jump, a countermovement jump, the Abalakov jump, a 15-m sprint, a modified Course-Navette endurance test, and four sportspecific BH throwing speed tests: a standing penalty throw, a 3-step running throw, a jump throw, and a 360 degrees jump throw. The training intervention enhanced all athletic performance measures (all, p < 0.05). In contrast, the only improvement in the CG included endurance performance (p < 0.05). Significant time-group differences were noted in favor of the EG compared to the CG (p < 0.05) in the squat jump, the countermovement jump, the Abalakov jump, the jump throw velocity and 360(degrees) jump throw velocity. In conclusion, compared to BH regular training, 6 weeks of sand surface preseason plyometric and sprint training combined with regular BH training induced greater improvements in athletic performance and specific skills in BH players.		[de Villarreal, Eduardo Saez; Rascon, Pedro Bago; Becerra, Manuel Ortega] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance Sports Res Ctr PPSRC, Seville, Spain; [Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Vitoria, Spain; [Alcaraz, Pedro E.] Catholic Univ San Antonio, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Feito-Blanco, Javier] Univ Oviedo, Psicometria, Oviedo, Spain; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Andres Bello, Exercise & Rehabil Sci Inst, Fac Rehabil Sci, Sch Phys Therapy, Santiago, Chile; [de Villarreal, Eduardo Saez] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance Sports Res Ctr PPSRC, Seville, Spain								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001207142600017	46	Article; Article		
J	Son, Somang; Seo, Yongsuk; Son, Jungjun; Yun, Somi; Lee, Dae Taek								Comparison of finger flexion strength and muscular recovery of male lead sport climbers across climbing classes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				122	129		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.12.007			JAN 2024	2024	Background/objective: The purpose of this study was to compare finger flexor strength (FS), finger flexor muscle recovery (FR), and forearm circumference (FC) across three different climbing classes in male lead sport climbers. Methods: A total of 37 male lead sport climbers were classified into low (LC), intermediate (IC), and advanced classes (AC) categories according to the International Rock Climbing Research Association (IRCRA) Scale. All participants measured FS three times for both open grip (OG) and crimp grip (CG). Following FS measurement, the FR was observed immediately after the all-out training. The FC was measured twice using an inelastic tape. Results: The FS differed significantly across climbing classes for both grip styles and hands, regardless of dominant hand, with the higher classes showing greater FS (all, p <= 0.001). FR was significantly higher in AC compared to IC and LC at 5 min (all, p <= 0.001), 10 min (all, p <= 0.005) and 15 min (all, p <= 0.005). The FC showed significant differences with climbing classes for both forearms. Conclusion: Climbing classes are associated with differences in FS, with higher class corresponding to greater FS. Similarly, climbing classes are linked to FR and FC, with higher classes being associated with faster recovery and larger FC.		[Son, Somang; Seo, Yongsuk; Yun, Somi; Lee, Dae Taek] Kookmin Univ, Exercise Physiol Lab, Seoul, South Korea; [Son, Jungjun] Son Jungjun Sport Climbing Inst, Seoul, South Korea; [Yun, Somi; Lee, Dae Taek] Kookmin Univ, Exercise Physiol Lab, Seoul, South Korea								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001166173900001	50	Article; Article		
J	Oba, Kensuke; Kyotani, Naoto; Tanaka, Minori; Komatsuzaki, Miho; Kasahara, Satoshi; Ogasawara, Katsuhiko; Samukawa, Mina								Acute effects of static and dynamic stretching for ankle plantar flexors on postural control during the single-leg standing task								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3268	3278		10.1080/14763141.2023.2298967			DEC 1 2024	2024	Static stretching (SS) and dynamic stretching (DS) are widely used as warm-ups before sports. However, whether stretching affects postural control remains unclear. We compared the effects of SS and DS on the plantar flexors and postural control during single-leg standing. Fifteen healthy young participants performed SS, DS, or no stretching (control). The stretch condition consisted of four sets lasting 30 s each. The control condition was a rest with standing for 210 s. Center of pressure (COP) displacement was measured using a force plate before and after each intervention to assess postural control during the single-leg standing task. The COP area, COP velocity, and anteroposterior (COPAP) and mediolateral (COPML) range were calculated. DS significantly decreased in the COPML range (21.5 +/- 4.1 to 19.0 +/- 2.5 mm; P = 0.02), COP velocity (33.8 +/- 7.6 to 29.8 +/- 6.5 mm/s; P < 0.01), and COP area (498.6 +/- 148.3 to 393.3 +/- 101.1 mm(2); P < 0.01), whereas SS did not change in the COP parameters (COP area 457.2 +/- 108.3 to 477.8 +/- 106.1 mm(2), P = .49; COP velocity 31.2 +/- 4.2 to 30.7 +/- 5.8 mm/s, P = 0.60; COPAP 25.4 +/- 3.1 to 25.3 +/- 3.2 mm, P = 0.02; COPML 20.7 +/- 3.3 to 21.1 +/- 2.5 mm, P = 0.94). Therefore, DS of the plantar flexors enhances postural control during single-leg standing and may be effective for both injury prevention and performance enhancement.		[Oba, Kensuke; Kasahara, Satoshi; Ogasawara, Katsuhiko; Samukawa, Mina] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Japan; [Oba, Kensuke] Hitsujigaoka Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Sapporo, Japan; [Kyotani, Naoto; Tanaka, Minori; Komatsuzaki, Miho] Hokkaido Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Japan; [Samukawa, Mina] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Japan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001132566200001	37	Article; Article		
J	Hsu, Mike								Umpire Home Bias in Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	4			423	442		10.1177/15270025231222631			MAY 2024	2024	This paper studies whether Major League Baseball umpires displayed home bias in their pitch calls, using data on pitch call accuracy from the 2010-2019 seasons to isolate evaluator bias from player performances. The main findings are consistent with umpire home bias, as home batters on average received more called balls on actual ball pitches and fewer called strikes on actual strike pitches, which work in their favor. The bias is not entirely explained by umpire, player, or stadium characteristics, nor is it attributable to umpiring inconsistencies.		[Hsu, Mike] Valparaiso Univ, Coll Arts & Sci, Dept Econ, Valparaiso, IN 46375 USA; [Hsu, Mike] Valparaiso Univ, Coll Arts & Sci, Dept Econ, Valparaiso, IN 46375 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001133592800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Salmon, Danielle Margaret; Walters, Simon; Brown, James; Kerr, Zachary Yukio; Clacy, Amanda; Keung, Sierra; Sullivan, S. John; Register-Mihalik, Johna; Whatman, Chris; Sole, Gisela; Badenhorst, Marelise								<i>Managing concussion in the real world</i>: Stakeholder perspectives of New Zealand Rugby's concussion management pathway								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1515	1530		10.1177/17479541231218518			AUG 2024	2024	The potential adverse consequences associated with poor concussion management highlights the need to improve the translation of concussion guidelines into consistent use in real-world sport settings. To facilitate this process, New Zealand Rugby developed a community concussion management pathway to support concussion recognition, diagnosis, and management. This study adopted a pragmatic, descriptive qualitative approach to explore key stakeholders' perceptions of the concussion management pathway, with the aim to inform policy and practice. Interviews were conducted with 123 participants, including players, parents, coaches, healthcare professionals, and school and provincial union representatives. The framework method was used to analyze data. Themes were organized according to the principles of realist process evaluation that considers contextual factors and mechanisms influencing a program's operation to produce specific outcomes. Contextual factors influencing the concussion management pathway's implementation included governing bodies' support, existing local resources, general concussion attitudes, or concussion severity. The optimal functioning of the concussion management pathway (mechanism) was influenced by (i) pathway resources, (ii) roles and relationships, (iii) buy-in and support towards the concussion management pathway, and (iv) diligence and communication. Outcomes identified included (i) hitting the target (optimally managed and enhanced awareness) or (ii) missing the mark (dissatisfaction or management gaps). Overall, participants found the concussion management pathway valuable. However, the acceptability of certain policy-related aspects and the underlying attitudes associated with these perceptions, are some areas requiring further investigation and support. Tailoring programs according to end-users' perceptions is crucial in developing context-sensitive interventions appropriate for a specific setting. These findings may act as a foundation for investigations of concussion management in other settings.		[Salmon, Danielle Margaret; Sullivan, S. John] New Zealand Rugby, Injury Prevent & Player Welf, Wellington, New Zealand; [Salmon, Danielle Margaret; Walters, Simon; Keung, Sierra; Whatman, Chris; Badenhorst, Marelise] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Sch Sport & Recreat, Auckland, New Zealand; [Brown, James] Stellenbosch Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Med, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise Sport & Lifestyle Med, Western Cape, South Africa; [Brown, James] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Kerr, Zachary Yukio; Register-Mihalik, Johna] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Matthew Gfeller Sport Related Traumat Brain Injury, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Kerr, Zachary Yukio; Register-Mihalik, Johna] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Kerr, Zachary Yukio; Register-Mihalik, Johna] Univ North Carolinaat Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Clacy, Amanda] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Law & Soc, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Sole, Gisela] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act Rehabil Res, Sch Physiotherapy, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Badenhorst, Marelise] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Sch Sport & Recreat, D-88 Private Bag 92006, Auckland 1142, New Zealand; [Badenhorst, Marelise] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Sch Sport & Recreat, D-88 Private Bag 92006, Auckland 1142, New Zealand								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001134268500001	65	Article; Article		
J	Stephenson, E. Frank								International Competitions, Star Players, and NWSL Attendance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	2			186	199		10.1177/15270025231217973			FEB 2024	2024	This paper analyzes match attendance for the National Women's Soccer League over its first seven seasons. Findings include large attendance boosts for matches played after the 2015 and 2019 Women's World Cup tournaments, but a negligible increase following the 2016 Summer Olympics. Large superstar effects for Alex Morgan and Abby Wambach are found as well as smaller effects for Sam Kerr and Carli Lloyd. Megan Rapinoe has a large star effect, but only for matches played following the Women's World Cups.		[Stephenson, E. Frank] Berry Coll, Dept Accounting Econ & Finance, Mt Berry, GA USA; [Stephenson, E. Frank] Berry Coll, Dept Accounting Econ & Finance, POB 5024, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA; [Stephenson, E. Frank] Berry Coll, Dept Accounting Econ & Finance, POB 5024, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001129589600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Roehrl, Florian; Federolf, Peter; Mohr, Maurice								Ergonomic saddle design features influence lumbar spine motion and can reduce low back pain in mountain biking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3252	3268		10.1080/14763141.2023.2284173			NOV 2 2025	2025	Low back pain is common in mountain biking due to the sustained flexion of the lumbar spine, particularly during fatiguing hill climbs. In this study, we investigated whether an ergonomic mountain bike saddle including a raised rear, a longitudinal dip, and a subtle lateral instability (the 'Active'-technology) can reduce acute low back pain at the end of a hill climb (>1 h) in a group of mountain bikers with a history of cycling-related low back pain (n = 28). In addition, we conducted a laboratory experiment to investigate the isolated effects of the 'Active'-technology on the cyclists' pelvis and spine motion as well as on the activity of surrounding muscles. The field test demonstrated a significant reduction in numerical low back pain ratings with the experimental saddle compared to the riders' own standard saddle (p = 0.001, strong effect). The laboratory-based data suggested that the 'Active'-technology does lead to potentially beneficial effects on pelvis-spine kinematics and muscle activity, which in combination with an optimised saddle geometry may explain the observed reduction in low back pain following mountain bike hill climbing.		[Roehrl, Florian; Federolf, Peter; Mohr, Maurice] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Mohr, Maurice] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001128568000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Jamshidi, Amir Hossein; Mofateh, Razieh; Orakifar, Neda; Seyedtabib, Maryam; Najarzadeh, Zahra; Behdarvandan, Amin								Immediate effects of local muscle vibration on static and dynamic balance control in individuals with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				113	121		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.11.008			JAN 2024	2024	Objectives: To investigate the immediate effects of local muscle vibration (LMV) on static and dynamic balance control in individuals with and without chronic ankle instability (CAI).Design: Quasi-experimental study.Setting: Research laboratory.Participants: Twenty-six individuals with CAI and 26 healthy controls.Main outcome measures: Center of pressure variables (mean total velocity and displacement in anteroposterior (AP) and mediolateral (ML) directions) during single-leg standing with eyes open and eyes closed and also reach distances in anterior (ANT), posteromedial (PM), and posterolateral (PL) directions of the modified star excursion balance test (MSEBT) were assessed before and after LMV.Results: Statistical analyses showed a significant decrease in mean total velocity and displacement in AP direction from before to after LMV in eyes open condition for both individuals with CAI (p = 0.025, p = 0.041, respectively) and healthy controls (p = 0.001, p = 0.003, respectively). Similar results were observed in eyes closed condition for both individuals with CAI (p < 0.001, p < 0.001, respectively) and healthy controls (p = 0.040, p = 0.014, respectively). The results also showed increased reach distances in ANT (p < 0.001), PM (p < 0.001), and PL directions (p < 0.001) in all participants after LMV.Conclusion: Our results suggest that LMV may be a useful tool in rehabilitation of static and dynamic balance deficits in individuals with CAI.		[Jamshidi, Amir Hossein; Mofateh, Razieh; Orakifar, Neda; Najarzadeh, Zahra; Behdarvandan, Amin] Ahvaz Jundishapur Univ Med Sci, Rehabil Res Ctr, Ahvaz, Iran; [Jamshidi, Amir Hossein] Ahvaz Jundishapur Univ Med Sci, Student Res Comm, Sch Rehabil Sci, Ahvaz, Iran; [Mofateh, Razieh; Orakifar, Neda; Behdarvandan, Amin] Ahvaz Jundishapur Univ Med Sci, Sch Rehabil Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Ahvaz, Iran; [Seyedtabib, Maryam] Ahvaz Jundishapur Univ Med Sci, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Biostat & Epidemiol, Ahvaz, Iran; [Mofateh, Razieh] Ahvaz Jundishapur Univ Med Sci, Rehabil Res Ctr, Ahvaz, Iran								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001144284700001	88	Article; Article		
J	Johns, Karen L.; Philipson, Peter M.; Powell, Cormac								Analysis of the competition programmes of elite and sub-elite swimmers: The influence of sex, stroke and race distance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1588	1597		10.1177/17479541231217839			AUG 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to analyse contemporary performance data in elite and sub-elite Irish swimmers, to explore the number of days and races required for swimmers to achieve their fastest competitive performances and how this may be influenced by sex, stroke and race distance. The initial dataset consisted of n = 3930 observations on n = 56 swimmers, with n1 = 2709 (68.9%) long course (LC) observations and n2 = 1221 (31.1%) short course (SC) observations. The main findings indicated that, firstly, the swimmers (LC & SC) produced their fastest swim in their first race of the season, approximately 39% of the time. Secondly, there were no significant differences between male and female swimmers regarding the number of days and races required to achieve their fastest performances. The final key finding identified the number of days and races between first and fastest performance was influenced by (a) stroke, for example, LC and SC freestyle and individual medley swimmers required less races and shorter timeframes to fastest swim, with breaststroke requiring the greatest number of mean days in LC and SC formats and (b) race distance, for example, across LC and SC, 400 m swimmers required fewer races (n = 1.83 & 1.64) and shorter time frame (n = 24.83 & 21.26 days) to fastest swim than other distances. These findings are valuable to coaches and practitioners, as (a) they can provide guidelines when designing competition programmes, and (b) support exploration of what a swimmer's competition may look like in terms of volume and duration to support the fastest performance.		[Johns, Karen L.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Northd, England; [Philipson, Peter M.] Newcastle Univ, Sch Math Stat & Phys, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Northd, England; [Powell, Cormac] Sport Ireland, High Performance Unit, Sport Ireland Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Powell, Cormac] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Powell, Cormac] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Phys Act Hlth Cluster, Limerick, Ireland; [Johns, Karen L.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Northd, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001128267800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Sanders, Shane D.								Wages, Talent, and Demand for NCAA Sport After the <i>Alston v. NCAA</i> Antitrust Case								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	2			169	185		10.1177/15270025231217970			FEB 2024	2024	From the "landmark" Alston v. NCAA antitrust decision, we examine whether the legally hypothesized fan wage-repugnance effect implies procompetitive benefits in NCAA sports output markets via increased output demand from student-athlete wage restriction. In Alston v. NCAA, the Courts took this benefit as given but failed to recognize the empirically-verified relationship between league talent and fan demand. We assume a legally-hypothesized wage-repugnance line exists and present a theoretical output-demand model functionally dependent upon allocations in a wage-constrained labor-input market. Even given fan repugnance, wage restrictions do not necessarily generate procompetitive benefits. For families of model parameterizations, wage restrictions impose anticompetitive harm.		[Sanders, Shane D.] Syracuse Univ, Falk Coll Sport & Human Dynam, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA; [Sanders, Shane D.] Syracuse Univ, Falk Coll Sport & Human Dynam, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001127903200001	25	Article; Article		
J	Ekberg, Sofie; Morseth, Bente; Larsen, Karin B.; Wikstrom-Frisen, Lisbeth								Does the Menstrual Cycle Influence Aerobic Capacity in Endurance-Trained Women?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			609	616		10.1080/02701367.2023.2291473			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim was to study if aerobic capacity varies during different phases of the menstrual cycle (MC) in endurance-trained female athletes. Methods: Ten endurance-trained eumenorrheic women performed a submaximal test followed by an incremental test until exhaustion three times during one MC, early follicular phase (EFP), late follicular phase (LFP), and midluteal phase (MLP). During the submaximal test, the respiratory exchange ratio (RER) and utilization of fat and carbohydrates were analyzed; and, during the incremental test, VO2 peak, maximal heart rate, utilization of fat and carbohydrates, and RER were analyzed. Lactate levels were analyzed at rest, during the submaximal test, and after the incremental test. The anaerobic threshold was determined at RER = 1. Results: No significant differences (p < .05) between the MC phases were seen in a maximal heart rate or VO2peak. Similarly, VO2, heart rate, RER, fatty acid oxidation, and carbohydrate oxidation at 70, 80, 90, and 100% of VO2peak did not differ significantly between MC phases. There were no significant differences between these phases in resting lactate before the test or during the submaximal tests, though there was a significant difference in lactate concentration 3 minutes after the incremental test between the EFP and the LFP (p = .043). Conclusion: This study did not display variations in physiological parameters between EFP, LFP, and MLP, indicating similar aerobic capacity despite hormonal variations. This knowledge may be useful when planning for competition in aerobic events.		[Ekberg, Sofie; Morseth, Bente] UiT Arctic Univ Norway, Trorazsoe, Norway; [Larsen, Karin B.; Wikstrom-Frisen, Lisbeth] Umea Univ, Umea, Sweden; [Wikstrom-Frisen, Lisbeth] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Sect Sports Med, Linnaeus vag 9, S-90763 Umea, Sweden; [Wikstrom-Frisen, Lisbeth] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Sect Sports Med, Linnaeus vag 9, S-90763 Umea, Sweden								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001127094700001	31	Article; Article		
J	Valerio, Mirian Vaz; Schaun, Gustavo Zaccaria; Andrade, Luana Siqueira; David, Gabriela Barreto; Orcy, Rafael Bueno; Rombaldi, Airton Jose; Alberton, Cristine Lima								Caffeine Supplementation Effects on Concurrent Training Performance in Resistance-Trained Men: A Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Crossover Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			546	554		10.1080/02701367.2023.2276401			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of acute caffeine supplementation on the performance during a session of resistance training alone (RT) or in combination with aerobic training (i.e. concurrent training; CT).Method: Fourteen resistance-trained men (23.1 +/- 4.2 years) were recruited and performed both RT and CT under three different conditions: control (CONT), placebo (PLA), and caffeine (CAF; 6 mg.kg(-1)) for a total of six experimental conditions.Results: Both total and per set number of repetitions, and total volume load were lower during CT as compared to RT, irrespective of the supplementation condition (all p < .001), whereas a supplementation main effect was observed for the total number of repetitions (p = .001), the number of repetitions in the first (p = .002) and second sets (p = .001), and total volume load (p = .001). RPE values were higher after the CT sessions than after the RT sessions (p < .001), whereas no differences were observed between supplementation conditions (p = .865).Conclusions: Caffeine supplementation was not sufficient to minimize the acute interference effect on strength performance in a CT session when compared to RT alone. In contrast, caffeine improved strength performance during the first set of both CT and RT, while maintaining a similar RPE between the supplementation conditions. However, the overall effect was small.		[Valerio, Mirian Vaz; Schaun, Gustavo Zaccaria; Andrade, Luana Siqueira; David, Gabriela Barreto; Orcy, Rafael Bueno; Rombaldi, Airton Jose; Alberton, Cristine Lima] Univ Fed Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Schaun, Gustavo Zaccaria] Univ Vienna, Vienna, Austria; [Schaun, Gustavo Zaccaria] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Schmelz 6, A-11250 Vienna, Austria; [Schaun, Gustavo Zaccaria] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Schmelz 6, A-11250 Vienna, Austria								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001126681600001	54	Article; Article		
J	Bortnik, Lukasz; Nir, Ofer; Forbes, Nichol; Alexander, Jill; Harper, Damian; Bruce-Low, Stewart; Carling, Christopher; Rhodes, David								Worst Case Scenarios in Soccer Training and Competition: Analysis of Playing Position, Congested Periods, and Substitutes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			588	600		10.1080/02701367.2023.2290265			JUL 2 2024	2024	Aim: To understand mean (WCSmean) and peak (WCSpeak) worst case scenarios within training and game play in male professional soccer. Methods: Thirty-one (n = 31) first team players were monitored across 37 matches and 14 MD-3 sessions. Playing status was distinguished, football drills analyzed, and performance explored in long-period: >6 days, moderate-period: 5-6 days, and congested-period: <= 4 days. Relative total distance (TD), high-speed running distance (HSRD, >19.8 km<middle dot>h(-1)), sprint distance (SD, >25.2 km<middle dot>h(-1)), accelerations/decelerations (A+D, >3 m<middle dot>s(-2)), accelerations (Acc, >3 m<middle dot>s(-2)), and decelerations (Dec, >-3 m<middle dot>s(-2)) were measured as well as Maximum acceleration (Max Acc; m<middle dot>s(-2)) and deceleration (Max Dec; m<middle dot>s(-2)). Results: Analysis of variance found differences between matches and training in WCSmean for TD, HSRD, SD, and Max Dec in all positions (p < .001; partial eta(2) > .275). Fullbacks displayed differences between match and training in Max Acc (moderate ESs; p < .001), while center backs and central midfielders in Max Dec (large ESs; p > .05). Main effects of playing status were discovered for all metrics except Max Dec (p < .001; partial eta(2) > .124). Analysis showed differences between long- and congested-period for A+D and Dec (large ESs; p <= .05). Conclusions: Findings provide more insights into short peak intensity demands of soccer showing that the maximum high velocity action of acceleration and deceleration is not being replicated in training. Nonstarters lack maximum intensity exposure in matches (WCSpeak) increasing the gap between training and competition even higher during congested fixture periods.		[Bortnik, Lukasz; Alexander, Jill; Harper, Damian; Rhodes, David] Univ Cent Lancashire, Preston, England; [Bortnik, Lukasz; Nir, Ofer] Hapoel Beer Sheva FC, Anal Dept, Beer Sheva, Israel; [Forbes, Nichol] Catapult Sports Pty Ltd, Melbourne, Australia; [Bruce-Low, Stewart] Univ East London, London, England; [Carling, Christopher] France Football Federat, Paris, France; [Rhodes, David] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance ICaP, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Football Performance Hub, Room BB126,Brook Bldg, Preston PR1 2HE, England; [Rhodes, David] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance ICaP, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Football Performance Hub, Room BB126,Brook Bldg, Preston PR1 2HE, England								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001127118200001	52	Article; Article		
J	de Arruda, Danilo Gomes; Barp, Fabio; Felisberto, Greysian; Tkak, Claudio; Wagman, Jeffrey B.; Stoffregen, Thomas A.								Perception of Affordances in Female Volleyball Players: Serving Short versus Serving to the Sideline								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			573	580		10.1080/02701367.2023.2279989			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: We investigated youth volleyball players' perception of affordances for different types of serves. Methods: Participants were separated into Less Experienced (n = 13, maximum of 3 years of competitive volleyball experience) and More Experienced (n = 11, minimum of 4 years of competitive volleyball experience) groups. In the Sideline Condition, participants were asked to report the narrowest gap, relative to either the left or right sideline, into which they could serve the ball. In the Short Condition, participants were asked to report the narrowest gap, relative to the net, into which they could serve the ball. Participants then attempted to serve into their reported gaps. Results: The proportion of successful serves was greater for the More Experienced group than for the Less Experienced group, but a statistically significant interaction revealed that this was true only when performing sideline serves. As expected, reported servable gaps were larger for the Short Serve condition (M = 3.66 m, SD = 0.67 m) than for the Sideline Serve condition (M = 1.93 m, SD = 0.71 m), F(1, 22) = 80.45, p < .001, partial eta(2) = 0.79. Conclusions: Our study extends previous work to a different sport (volleyball) and to different sport-specific actions (serving the ball). The finding that perceived minimum servable gap sizes were larger for short serves than for sideline serves is consistent with differences in the constraints operating on the two types of serves in the context of game play.		[de Arruda, Danilo Gomes; Stoffregen, Thomas A.] Univ Minnesota, Sch Kinesiol, Cooke Hall 224,1900 Univ Ave SE, Minneapolis, MN 55445 USA; [Barp, Fabio] Western Parana State Univ, Cascavel, Brazil; [Felisberto, Greysian] Univ South Santa Catarina, Tubarao, Brazil; [Tkak, Claudio] Pontif Catholic Univ Parana, Curitiba, PR, Brazil; [Wagman, Jeffrey B.] Illinois State Univ, Normal, IL USA; [Stoffregen, Thomas A.] Univ Minnesota, Sch Kinesiol, Cooke Hall 224,1900 Univ Ave SE, Minneapolis, MN 55445 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001124999900001	27	Article; Article		
J	van der Meer, Bart R.; van den Hoven, Michel A. C.; van der Kamp, John; Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.								Self-Controlled Video Feedback Facilitates the Learning of Tactical Skills in Tennis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			537	545		10.1080/02701367.2023.2275801			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study aimed to examine the effect of self-controlled video feedback on the learning of tactical motor skills in tennis, and additionally, whether this was affected by learners' self-efficacy and self-regulative skills. Method: Twenty-three intermediately skilled tennis players were assigned to either a self-controlled group that was provided video feedback on request or a yoked group that received an identical, externally controlled video feedback schedule. In three training sessions participants practiced serve and volley play. Video feedback with attentional cueing and transitional statements that focused solely on individual tactical gameplay was provided by a licensed tennis coach. Individual tactical performance was measured with a custom designed Tactical Tennis Tool (TTT) in a pretest, posttest and in a one-week retention test. Before each test self-efficacy was measured, and a questionnaire was administered to measure self-regulative skills. Results: Analyses revealed significantly larger improvements in tactical performance relative to the pretest for the self-controlled group than for the yoked group in both the posttest and the one-week retention test. No differences were found in self-efficacy. Finally, the improvements in tactical performance were not predicted by self-efficacy and/or self-regulative skills. Conclusion: The advantage of self-controlled video feedback extends to the learning of a complex tactical task in tennis. Future research should verify the observed benefits of a self-controlled learning environment in comparison to a coach-controlled learning environment.		[van der Meer, Bart R.; van den Hoven, Michel A. C.; van der Kamp, John; Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Boechorststr 7, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van der Meer, Bart R.] ROC Nova Coll, Ijmuiden, Netherlands; [van der Kamp, John] Windesheim Univ Appl Sci, Windesheim, Netherlands; [Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.] Amsterdam Inst Sport Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van der Meer, Bart R.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Boechorststr 7, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001126590500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Tae Lee; Ko, Do-Kyung; Kang, Nyeonju								Advanced Force Coordination of Lower Extremities During Visuomotor Control Task in Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	3			581	587		10.1080/02701367.2023.2283034			JUL 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study is aimed to determine specific bilateral lower extremity motor performances and coordination patterns in soccer players with healthy controls using the bilateral force control paradigm. We hypothesized that soccer players would show more advanced bilateral force control performances than untrained controls. Methods: Participants were 13 university soccer players and 13 healthy controls. Each group performed bilateral ankle dorsiflexion force control tasks across two vision conditions (i.e., vision and no-vision) and two targeted force levels (i.e., 10% and 40% maximum voluntary contraction). We calculated force accuracy, variability, and symmetry to assess force control performances. To estimate bilateral force coordination, we calculated Pearson's correlation coefficients between feet-within a single trial and considered uncontrolled manifold variables across multiple trials. In the no-vision condition, we performed secondary analyses for initial force control patters after removal of visual feedback. Results: There were no significant group differences in bilateral force accuracy and variability but, compared to the control group, soccer players showed higher force symmetry between left and right ankle dorsiflexion forces. For force coordination between feet, soccer players revealed more negative values of the correlation coefficient and greater good variability from the uncontrolled manifold analysis than those for the control group. The secondary analysis revealed no significant group differences in the time until force drift and amount of force adjustments. Conclusions: Soccer players have more compensatory and flexible interlimb force coordination strategies between feet.		[Lee, Tae Lee; Ko, Do-Kyung; Kang, Nyeonju] Incheon Natl Univ, Div Sport Sci, Neuromech Rehabil Res Lab, Acad Ro 119, Incheon, South Korea; [Lee, Tae Lee; Ko, Do-Kyung; Kang, Nyeonju] Incheon Natl Univ, Sport Sci Inst, Acad Ro 119, Incheon, South Korea; [Kang, Nyeonju] Incheon Natl Univ, Div Sport Sci, Neuromech Rehabil Res Lab, Acad Ro 119, Incheon, South Korea; [Kang, Nyeonju] Incheon Natl Univ, Sport Sci Inst, Acad Ro 119, Incheon, South Korea								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001124706500001	33	Article; Article		
J	Werner, David; Jorgensen, Alyx; Post, Austin; Weaver, Brittany; Tao, Matthew; Wichman, Christopher S.; Wellsandt, Elizabeth								Short-term fear of movement improves less after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction with concomitant meniscus repair								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				102	106		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.12.003			JAN 2024	2024	Background: Psychological response is important in return-to-sport decisions for athletes recovering from anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). The purpose of this study was to compare psychological response after ACLR with a concomitant meniscus repair compared to isolated ACLR. Methods: Thirty-five individuals completed the Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia (TSK) and Anterior Cruciate Ligament Return-to-Sport after Injury (ACL-RSI) scale before ACLR and 2, 4, and 6 months after ACLR. Participants were dichotomized based on presence of concomitant meniscus repair (Yes/No). Separate group X time repeated measures analyses of variance were conducted for both scales. Results: Participants were 65.7% female, 19.1 +/- 4.7 years old with BMI of 24.9 +/- 4.4 kg/m2. Sixteen individuals had an isolated ACLR with 19 individuals having an ACLR with concomitant meniscus repair. For the TSK, there was a group x time interaction effect(p = 0.028), with improvement in TSK scores for the isolated ACLR group (ACLR:2 months = 24.8 +/- 3.7; 4 months = 22.0 +/- 5.7; 6 months: 19.9 +/- 5.9; Meniscus Repair:2 months = 25.5 +/- 4.7; 4 months = 24.1 +/- 5.0; 6 months: 23.8 +/- 4.7). Six months after ACLR, TSK scores were worse in the meniscus repair group(p = 0.036). For the ACL-RSI, there was no interaction(p = 0.07). Conclusion: Concomitant meniscus repair with ACLR results in less post-operative improvement in kinesiophobia through 6 months after ACLR compared to isolated ACLR.		[Werner, David; Jorgensen, Alyx] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Off Grad Studies, Omaha, NE 68198 USA; [Werner, David; Jorgensen, Alyx; Tao, Matthew; Wellsandt, Elizabeth] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Coll Allied Hlth Profess, Dept Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Phys Therapy Program, Omaha, NE 68198 USA; [Post, Austin] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Coll Med, Omaha, NE USA; [Weaver, Brittany; Tao, Matthew; Wellsandt, Elizabeth] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Coll Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, Omaha, NE USA; [Wichman, Christopher S.] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Coll Publ Hlth, Dept Biostat, Omaha, NE USA; [Werner, David] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Off Grad Studies, Omaha, NE 68198 USA; [Werner, David; Wellsandt, Elizabeth] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Coll Allied Hlth Profess, Dept Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Phys Therapy Program, Omaha, NE 68198 USA; [Wellsandt, Elizabeth] Univ Nebraska Med Ctr, Coll Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, Omaha, NE USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001138710700001	24	Article; Article		
J	Perraton, Zuzana; Mosler, Andrea B.; Lawrenson, Peter R.; Weber, Kenneth, II; Elliott, James M.; Wesselink, Evert O.; Crossley, Kay M.; Kemp, Joanne L.; Stewart, Christopher; Girdwood, Michael; King, Matthew G.; Heerey, Joshua J.; Scholes, Mark J.; Mentiplay, Benjamin F.; Semciw, Adam I.								The association between lateral hip muscle size/intramuscular fat infiltration and hip strength in active young adults with long standing hip/ groin pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				95	101		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.11.007			JAN 2024	2024	Objectives: To investigate associations between lateral hip muscle size/intramuscular fat infiltration (MFI) and hip strength in active young adults with longstanding hip/groin pain. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University/Clinical. Participants: Sub -elite soccer and Australian Football players (n = 180; 37 female) with long standing hip/groin pain. Main outcome measures: Muscle size (volume) and MFI of gluteus maximus, medius, and minimis, and tensor fascia latae (TFL) were assessed using magnetic resonance imaging. Isometric hip strength was measured with handheld dynamometry. Associations between muscle size/MFI were assessed using linear regression models, adjusted for body mass index and age, with sex -specific interactions. Results: Positive associations were identified between lateral hip muscle volume and hip muscle strength, particularly for gluteus maximus and gluteus minimus volume. For all muscles, hip abduction was associated with an increase in strength by up to 0.69 N (R2 ranging from 0.29 to 0.39). These relationships were consistent across sexes with no sex interactions observed. No associations were found between MFI and strength measures. Conclusion: Greater lateral hip muscle volumes are associated with greater hip strength in active young adults with long standing hip/groin pain, irrespective of sex. Gluteus maximus and minimus volume showed the most consistent relationships with hip strength across multiple directions.		[Perraton, Zuzana; Mosler, Andrea B.; Lawrenson, Peter R.; Crossley, Kay M.; Kemp, Joanne L.; Stewart, Christopher; Girdwood, Michael; King, Matthew G.; Heerey, Joshua J.; Scholes, Mark J.; Mentiplay, Benjamin F.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Mosler, Andrea B.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Lawrenson, Peter R.; Elliott, James M.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Australia; [Lawrenson, Peter R.] Metro North Hlth, Innovat & Res Ctr, Community & Oral Hlth Directorate, Brisbane, Australia; [Weber, Kenneth, II] Stanford Univ, Dept Anesthesiol Perioperat & Pain Med, Palo Alto, CA USA; [Elliott, James M.] Northern Sydney Local Hlth Dist & Univ Sydney, Kolling Inst St Leonards, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Wesselink, Evert O.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [King, Matthew G.; Scholes, Mark J.; Semciw, Adam I.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Discipline Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Australia; [Semciw, Adam I.] Northern Hlth, Dept Allied Hlth Res, Epping, Vic, Australia; [Perraton, Zuzana] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Vic, Australia								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001163861500001	57	Article; Article		
J	Bowman, Thomas G.; Thibault, Rachel; Radack, Benjamin M.; Davis, Anissa; Elam, Penelope								Clinical outcomes for various benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) diagnoses in adolescents and young adults with recent concussions								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				90	94		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.12.004			JAN 2024	2024	Objective: Determine how positive BPPV findings in adolescents and young adults following concussion impacted the total number of treatments required and time until discharge. Setting: Outpatient physical therapy clinic.Participants: 167 individuals who were diagnosed with concussion or brain injury.Design: Retrospective chart review. Main measures: Total number of treatments and days until discharge were compared for various BPPV diagnoses (anterior canal, posterior canal, horizontal canal, and combination) and for individuals with and without BPPV.Results: Fifty-one out of 167 cases (30.54%) were diagnosed with BPPV. The total number of treatments provided was statistically different across BPPV diagnoses (P = .004). However, days until discharge were not statistically different between BPPV diagnoses (P = .28). There was no significant difference between time to discharge between those with BPPV (median = 21 days, range = 7-126) and those without (median = 28 days, range = 7-84 days; P = .23, r = 0.09).Conclusion: To optimize outcomes, including symptom resolution and return to sport and/or work, early identification of BPPV and subsequent intervention should be prioritized for individuals who have concussion symptoms that suggest vestibular dysfunction.		[Bowman, Thomas G.] Univ Lynchburg, Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Athlet Training, 1501 Lakeside Dr, Lynchburg, VA 24501 USA; [Thibault, Rachel] Rehab Associates Cent Virginia, 3211 Forest Brook Rd, Lynchburg, VA 24501 USA; [Radack, Benjamin M.] Univ Lynchburg, Sch Phys Therapy, 300 Monticello Ave,Ste A, Lynchburg, VA 24501 USA; [Davis, Anissa; Elam, Penelope] Univ Lynchburg, Sch Phys Therapy, 300 Monticello Ave,Suite A, Lynchburg, VA 24501 USA; [Bowman, Thomas G.] Univ Lynchburg, Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Athlet Training, 1501 Lakeside Dr, Lynchburg, VA 24501 USA								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001140946900001	26	Article; Article		
J	Agarwal, Amil R.; Kreulen, R. Timothy; Mathur, Abhay; Mikula, Jacob D.; Doerre, Teresa; Thakkar, Savyasachi C.; Best, Matthew J.								Trends in utilization of meniscal allograft transplantation between 2010 and 2019								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			407	413		10.1080/00913847.2023.2292038			JUL 3 2024	2024	ObjectivesThe aim of this study was to observe the trends in (1) utilization of meniscus allograft transplantation (MAT), (2) demographics and comorbidities of patients undergoing transplants and (3) reimbursements for this procedure between the years of 2010 and 2019.MethodsUsing a national database, patients who underwent MAT were observed. Incidence of MAT, percentage of female patients, average age, and average Charlson comorbidity index (CCI) were analyzed between 2010 and 2019. Average reimbursement during the index and postoperative 90-day bundle period were also calculated from 2010 to 2019. Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of change in incidence, demographic and reimbursement was calculated, and linear regressionwas conducted for each trends analysis.ResultsIn total, 744 patients underwent a MAT between the years of 2010 and 2019. The incidence of MAT increased from 0.12 per 100,000 to 0.15 per 100,000 during this period but was not statistically significant (p=0.345). There was no significant difference in age (p=0.462) and gender (p=0.831) among the patients, but the average CCI significantly increased from 2010 to 2019 (CAGR: +15.30; p=0.001). The total reimbursement in the index (p=0.451) and 90-day bundle period (p=0.191) did not significantly change from 2010 to 2019.ConclusionsAlthough MAT has been shown to be a safe and reliable surgery for the treatment of meniscus deficient knees, the incidence of MAT as well as the population undergoing MAT has minimally increased from 2010 to 2019. Future studies should seek to identify why the utilization of this efficacious surgery has not increased.Level of EvidenceIV; Descriptive Epidemiology Study		[Kreulen, R. Timothy; Mikula, Jacob D.; Thakkar, Savyasachi C.; Best, Matthew J.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sch Med, Baltimore, MD USA; [Mathur, Abhay; Doerre, Teresa] George Washington Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Washington, DC USA; [Best, Matthew J.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sch Med, 601 N Caroline St,5th Floor, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA; [Best, Matthew J.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sch Med, 601 N Caroline St,5th Floor, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001126416800001	33	Article; Article		
J	Olsen, Amanda; Leeds, Michael A.								Integration and Team Performance in the NBA								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	2			257	278		10.1177/15270025231217962			FEB 2024	2024	The causes and effects of the integration of the NBA have received far less attention than the integration of other sports. We use survival analysis to examine whether integration was led by successful franchises or unsuccessful teams. We then go on to examine the contributions of Black players in the 1950s and early 1960s. Specifically, we ask whether teams that relied more heavily on Black players were more successful, as was the case in baseball. We also examine the degree to which individual Black players contributed to their teams.		[Olsen, Amanda; Leeds, Michael A.] Temple Univ, Dept Econ, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Olsen, Amanda] Cencora, Chesterbrook, PA USA; [Leeds, Michael A.] Temple Univ, Dept Econ, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001124407300001	28	Article; Article		
J	Worner, Tobias; Kauppinen, Stefan; Eek, Frida								Injury patterns in Swedish elite female and male ice hockey - A cross-sectional comparison of past-season's injuries								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				83	89		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.12.001			JAN 2024	2024	Objectives: To describe and compare seasonal prevalence, anatomical location, severity, and onset of injuries between female and male elite ice hockey players.Design: Cross-sectional survey study.Setting: Elite ice hockey. Participants: Swedish elite ice hockey players (170 females & 190 males).Main outcome measures: Past season injuries reported on a modified version of the Oslo Sports Trauma Research Center overuse injury questionnaire. Proportions of players who experienced any and substantial problems, as well as respective injury severity scores were presented and compared between sexes. Results: Highest seasonal prevalence was reported for hip/groin [31.1% (n =112)], lower back [24.2% (n = 87)], and shoulder injuries [23.6% (n = 85)]. Prevalence of injuries was approximately similar between sexes. Sub-stantial injuries were most prevalent in the hip/groin (13.3% [n = 48]) and knee (18.6% [n = 67]) region. Females reported a higher proportion of substantial hip/groin injuries. Most reported injuries were acute except for hip/groin and lower back injuries (74.4% and 81.8% due to overuse).Conclusion: Seasonal prevalence of injuries in elite ice hockey players were comparable between sexes. Acute injuries were most common but hip/groin as well as lower back injuries were predominantly due to overuse. The highest reported prevalence was found for hip and groin-, lower back-, and shoulder injuries.		[Worner, Tobias; Kauppinen, Stefan] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Lund, Sweden; [Worner, Tobias] Karolinska Inst, Stockholm Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Mol Med & Surg, Stockholm, Sweden; [Worner, Tobias] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Box 117, S-22100 Lund, Sweden; [Worner, Tobias] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Box 117, S-22100 Lund, Sweden								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001137158700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Larsson, Hampus; Stromback, Edit; Schau, Mikael; Johansson, Susanna; Berglund, Lars								Lumbopelvic movement control in powerlifters with and without low back pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				74	82		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.11.006			JAN 2024	2024	Objectives: To measure lumbopelvic movement control in powerlifters with and without low back pain (LBP).Design: Quantitative Cross-sectional.Participants: Twelve powerlifters with LBP and 28 powerlifters without LBP. Setting: Powerlifters were recruited in nine different cities and filmed while performing a movement control test battery. Main outcome measures: Lumbopelvic movement control test battery consisting of seven tests, with a possible score between 0 and 13. The tests were rated by a physical therapist blinded to the group allocation and comparisons of the frequency of current/incorrect tests between groups were calculated.Results: There was no statistically significant difference in the movement control test battery between the powerlifters with LBP (Median = 7.0, (2-11)) and powerlifters without LBP (Median = 6.0, (1-10)) (P = 0.59). There were no statistically significant differences between groups when the individual movement control tests were analyzed separately.Conclusions: The lack of significant differences between groups indicates that performance in lumbopelvic movement control test might not be associated with LBP in powerlifters. More studies on associations between LBP and movement control and other body functions are needed to guide assessment and treatment of powerlifters with LBP and for investigation of possible risk factors for LBP in powerlifters.		[Larsson, Hampus; Stromback, Edit; Schau, Mikael; Johansson, Susanna; Berglund, Lars] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, S-90187 Umea, Sweden; [Berglund, Lars] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, S-90187 Umea, Sweden								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001134001100001	32	Article; Article		
J	Bae, Junsu; Lim, Taehee; O'Sullivan, David Michael								The role of sport coaches on student-athletes' life skills development and transfer: Using multilevel model analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			944	955		10.1177/17479541231217368			JUN 2024	2024	A structured sport environment is known to provide adequate conditions for the development and transfer of student-athletes' life skills. However, recent research not only emphasizes the environment but also argues that the intentional effort of coaches such as life skills coaching is important. This study examines the role of coaches' life skills coaching on the development and transfer of athletes' life skills using a multilevel model. A total of 28 high school athletic teams (28 coaches, 291 student-athletes) were recruited to participate in the study, using cluster sampling. The life skills coaching of Level 2 (coaches) in sports were measured using the Korean version of the Coaching Life Skills in Sport Questionnaire (CLSS-Q). The life skills of the student-athletes at Level 1 were measured using the Life Skills Scale for Student-Athletes (LSSSA) and Korean version of Life Skills Transfer Survey (LSTS). Multilevel model analysis was conducted to analyze dyadic data. The result of analysis showed that three hypotheses were supported. Specifically, life skills development of student-athletes affected life skills transfer (Hypothesis 1), life skills coaching affected student-athletes' life skills transfer (Hypothesis 2), and the interaction effect between life skills coaching and development affected life skills transfer of student-athletes (Hypothesis 3). We conclude that coaches should use intentional life skills coaching strategies to maximize student-athlete life skills development and transfer to daily life.		[Bae, Junsu; Lim, Taehee] Yongin Univ, Dept Taekwondo, Yongin, South Korea; [O'Sullivan, David Michael] Pusan Natl Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Pusan, South Korea; [O'Sullivan, David Michael] Pusan Natl Univ, Dept Sports Sci, 2,Busandaehak Ro 63, Busan, 46241, South Korea; [O'Sullivan, David Michael] Pusan Natl Univ, Dept Sports Sci, 2,Busandaehak Ro 63, Busan, 46241, South Korea								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001114217300001	50	Article; Article		
J	Trail, Galen; Bang, Hyejin; Dees, Windy								How best to measure connection to a team: team identification, brand attitude/loyalty, consumer lifestyle or interest level?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	2			227	247		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2023-0118			MAR 19 2024	2024	PurposeThe purpose of this study was to compare four different consumer pathway models based on identity theory, attitude/loyalty theory, lifestyle theory and hierarchy of effects theory, each with associated instruments measuring connection to the team.Design/methodology/approachThe authors did a two-study analysis, first collecting data from people aware of an NFL team (N = 218) and then an MLS team (N = 209) to determine which connection item performed better.FindingsThe authors found that the Consumer Pathway for Sport Fandom based on the hierarchy of effects theory and its associated interest measurement item performed better than the other three frameworks and items. The Interest item shared the most variance with games attended, games intending to attend, games watched via media and games intending to watch via media.Originality/valueThe Consumer Pathway for Sport Fandom represents the entire consumer spectrum from non-aware consumers all the way up to die-hard sports fans. This pathway will allow sport marketers to track their consumers from initial awareness of the product or service all the way through the brand relationship to ultimate loyalty.		[Trail, Galen] Seattle Univ, Dept Mkt, Seattle, WA 98122 USA; [Bang, Hyejin] Florida Int Univ, Dept Counselling Recreat, Miami, FL USA; [Bang, Hyejin] Florida Int Univ, Sch Psychol, Miami, FL USA; [Dees, Windy] Univ Miami, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Sci, Coral Gables, FL USA; [Trail, Galen] Seattle Univ, Dept Mkt, Seattle, WA 98122 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001111297600001	62	Article; Article		
J	Brennan, Alex; Ehlert, Alex; Wells, Jack; Broadie, Mark; Coughlan, Daniel; Turner, Anthony; Bishop, Chris								Monitoring Performance in Golf: More Than Just Clubhead Speed								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	6			631	641		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000764			DEC 2023	2023	In the golfing literature, clubhead speed is the most commonly reported metric to assess golf performance. However, a rise in the availability and use of launch monitor technologies in recent years has gathered a wide range of metrics for any given golf shot. In addition, with distance and dispersion (accuracy) being the outcome measures of any given shot and of utmost importance in golf, launch monitors can provide an in-depth understanding of how a golf shot has been achieved. To date, very limited information offers practitioners working in golf an understanding of how these metrics interlink and relate to the outcomes of any given shot. Thus, we have created a deterministic model for the golf shot and provided an overview of the relationship between these launch monitor metrics and the outcome measures of distance and accuracy. This information will give practitioners a more detailed understanding of how golf shots have been achieved and help provide more methodical means of monitoring golf performance and providing feedback to players.		[Brennan, Alex; Coughlan, Daniel; Turner, Anthony; Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, StoneX Stadium, London, England; [Ehlert, Alex] Fenris Grp, Res & Innovat Dept, Aachen, Germany; [Wells, Jack] Profess Golfers Assoc, Natl Training Acad, Ping House, Sutton, England; [Broadie, Mark] Colombia Univ, Grad Sch Business, New York, NY USA; [Coughlan, Daniel] European Tour Performance Inst, Virginia Water, Surrey, England; [Coughlan, Daniel; Bishop, Chris] Med & Sci Dept R&A, St Andrews, Scotland; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, StoneX Stadium, London, England								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001114503700005	42	Article; Article		
J	Huldi, Francis J.; Cisar, Craig J.								Developing an Annual Training Program for the Mixed Martial Arts Athlete								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	6			745	753		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000785			DEC 2023	2023	Mixed martial arts (MMA) is a multidimensional combat sport combining various forms of grappling and striking methodologies. The sport challenges the strength and conditioning professional because of the conflicting metabolic demands, high degree of variability, and a lack of a fixed competitive schedule. The existing literature identifies the need for highly developed neuromuscular qualities and high aerobic and anaerobic capacities. Although previous research has identified the physiological profile of a high-level MMA athlete, there is limited peer-reviewed research identifying the most optimal periodization strategy to improve performance. Furthermore, there seems to be no existing literature investigating the implementation of velocity-based training (VBT). This training methodology uses movement velocity to assign training loads to mitigate fatigue and improve strength and power adaptations. Existing literature on VBT suggests that it is a superior method of assigning training load compared with traditional percentage-based training. Therefore, this article serves to identify the physiological profile of the MMA athlete, outline VBT, and provide a guideline for designing an MMA strength and conditioning program to optimize performance using VBT.		[Huldi, Francis J.; Cisar, Craig J.] San Jose State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, San Jose, CA 95192 USA; [Huldi, Francis J.] San Jose State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, San Jose, CA 95192 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001114503700007	30	Article; Article		
J	Altiner, Baykal M. L.; Dixon, Marlene A.; Nite, Calvin; Stock, Matt S.								Toward Professionalization of the Strength and Conditioning Field								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	6			733	744		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000787			DEC 2023	2023	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. Collectively, strength and conditioning (S&C) as an industry has experienced immense growth since its emergence, both as an occupation and as an applied science. As a result, coaches continue to lend their expertise to new contexts, encourage empirical research, and persistently engage in the processes of professionalization to improve S&C credentialing and expertise. Despite tremendous progress, the authors encourage industry leaders (professional associations and individuals) to reflect on the industry's origins and infrastructure dynamics concerning the accreditation, education, credentials, and overall professional development of S&C practitioners. As a field, S&C is in a prime position to develop and implement an effective regulatory system toward increased professionalism and effective practice. Thus, this article introduces conceptual tools from organizational behavior to better support S&C professionalization efforts. First, the topic of professions and institutional work is introduced and defined. Second, the relationship between professionals (individual and collective) and institutions during professionalization is illustrated. Third, a reflexive overview of research concerning contemporary issues and trends in the field (i.e., field disparity, credentialing, negligence and injury, and social capital) related to professionalism is highlighted. Finally, precise institutional work strategies and their applications are offered to support the industry's maturation as a profession.		[Altiner, Baykal M. L.; Dixon, Marlene A.; Nite, Calvin] Texas A&M Univ, Sport Management, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Stock, Matt S.] Univ Cent Florida, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL USA; [Altiner, Baykal M. L.] Texas A&M Univ, Sport Management, College Stn, TX 77843 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001114503700001	72	Article; Article		
J	Ren, ManYing; Tian, Yu; McNeill, Conor; Lenetsky, Seth; Uthoff, Aaron								The Role and Development of Strength for Elite Judo Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	6			663	673		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000778			DEC 2023	2023	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. The Olympic combat sport of judo is characterized by high-intensity intermittent efforts to throw an opponent to the ground, pinning, or submitting them. High-level judo coaches have established neuromuscular performance as one of the key performance indicators in judo. This is likely because the judo athlete performs several neuromuscular challenges, including establishing grip dominance while engaging an opponent when standing, performing highly technical throws, and exerting dynamic and isometric contractions to control an opponent on the ground. As such, a stronger judo practitioner has an advantage over opponents with comparable technical ability. With that in mind, this review aims to examine the role different types of strength play in judo performance and provide training recommendations based on neuromuscular attributes for training elite judo athletes.		[Ren, ManYing] Beijing Res Inst Sports Sci, Strength & Conditioning Dept, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Tian, Yu] Beijing Yanding Sports Culture Corp, BSports Dept, Beijing, Peoples R China; [McNeill, Conor] New Zealand Rugby Union, Wellington, New Zealand; [Lenetsky, Seth] Canadian Sport Inst Pacific, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Lenetsky, Seth; Uthoff, Aaron] Auckland Univ Technol AUT, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, AUT Millennium, Rosedale, New Zealand; [Uthoff, Aaron] Auckland Univ Technol AUT, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, AUT Millennium, Rosedale, New Zealand								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001114503700006	82	Article; Article		
J	de Carvalho-Nicolau, Raquel; Bittar, Simoni Teixeira; Tilp, Markus; Lago, Silvo de Azevedo; Oliveira, Leonardo dos Santos								Musculoskeletal symptoms and training characteristics differ between sex and playing positions: A cross-sectional study among high-performance Brazilian beach handball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2133	2141		10.1177/17479541221133025			DEC 2023	2023	This study analysed self-reported musculoskeletal symptoms and training characteristics of high-performance Brazilian beach handball athletes. In a cross-sectional study, 28 men (mean (standard deviation), age: 23 (5) years, body mass: 81.9 (14.4) kg, height: 181.3 (8.6) cm, experience: 13.3 (5.4) years) and 27 women (mean (standard deviation), age: 28 (8) years, body mass: 65.5 (12.7) kg, height: 170.4 (4.9) cm, experience: 9.3 (3.0) years) answered an online questionnaire about anthropometric and sociodemographic aspects, musculoskeletal symptoms, and training characteristics. The results showed that the musculoskeletal symptoms are more prevalent in the knees during the previous seven days and in the shoulder during the previous 12 months. Left-wing players were more affected by musculoskeletal symptoms in the shoulder than right-wing players and central defenders during the previous seven days regardless of the sex. Problems in the elbow area presented a higher prevalence in the male players compared to the female players in the past 12-month period. The training volume was higher for men compared to women, regardless of the playing position. Moreover, beach handball athletes who reported training five days/week or 360 min/week or more were more likely to develop musculoskeletal symptoms in the elbow compared to those who had a lower frequency and duration of training. Musculoskeletal symptoms occurred most in the shoulders and knees, differing between sex and playing positions. Higher frequency and duration of training were independent risk factors for chronic musculoskeletal symptoms in the elbow compared to a lower volume of training.		[de Carvalho-Nicolau, Raquel; Bittar, Simoni Teixeira; Lago, Silvo de Azevedo; Oliveira, Leonardo dos Santos] Fac Nova Esperanca FACENE, Curso Educ Fis, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Tilp, Markus] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Oliveira, Leonardo dos Santos] Fac Nova Esperanca FACENE, Curso Educ Fis, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001101384800023	50	Article; Article		
J	Geisler, Stephan; Havers, Tim; Isenmann, Eduard; Schulze, Jonas; Lourens, Leonie K.; Nowak, Jannik; Held, Steffen; Haff, Gregory								Effects of Expertise on Muscle Activity during the Hang Power Clean and Hang Power Snatch Compared to Snatch and Clean Pulls - An Explorative Analysis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			778	789		10.52082/jssm.2023.778			DEC 2023	2023	The purpose was to compare the electromyographic (EMG) activity of the Hang Power Clean (HPC) and Hang Power Snatch (HPS) with the Hang Clean Pull (HCP) and Hang Snatch Pull (HSP). Additionally, the influence of weightlifting expertise (beginner, advanced and elite) on EMG activity was analyzed. Twenty-seven weightlifters (beginner: n = 11, age: 23.9 +/- 3.2 years, bodyweight: 75.7 +/- 10.5 kg; advanced: n = 10, age: 24.8 +/- 4.5 years, bodyweight: 69.4 +/- 13.9 kg; elite: n = 6, age: 25.5 +/- 5.2 years, bodyweight: 75.5 +/- 12.5 kg) participated in this study. Participants performed two repetitions of HPC, HPS, HCP, and HSP at 50%, 70%, and 90% 1RM, respectively. The EMG activity of vastus lateralis (VL), gluteus maximus (GM), erector spinae (ES), rectus abdominis (RA) and trapezius (TZ) was recorded and normalized to the maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) of each muscle. There were significant differences in RA and ES EMG activity at 70% and 90% 1RM during HPC compared to HCP in the beginner group (p < 0.05, Hedges g = 0.50-1.06). Significant greater ES activity was observed in the beginner, advanced, and elite groups (p < 0.05, g = 0.27-0.98) during the HPS when compared to the HSP at 50-90% 1RM. TZ muscle activity was significantly greater at 50% and 70% 1RM in the HCP compared to the HPC in the elite group (p < 0.05, g = 0.61-1.08), while the beginner group reached significance only at 50% 1RM favoring HPC (p < 0.05, g = 0.38). Moreover, the EMG activity of the TZ during the HSP and HPS was significantly different only at 50% 1RM in the elite group and favored HSP (p < 0.05, g = 0.27). No differences were observed between the levels of weightlifting expertise. Based upon the results of this study, the overall pattern of EMG activity of the predominant muscles involved in HPC/HPS and the corresponding weightlifting pulling derivatives, apart from the stabilizing muscle (RA and ES), is similar at higher intensities (>70% 1RM) and expertise does not influence muscle activity.		[Geisler, Stephan; Havers, Tim; Nowak, Jannik] Univ Appl Sci, IST, Dept Fitness & Hlth, Dusseldorf, Germany; [Isenmann, Eduard; Schulze, Jonas; Lourens, Leonie K.; Nowak, Jannik] German Sports Univ, Inst Cardiovasc Res & Sports Med, Dept Mol & Cellular Sports Med, Cologne, Germany; [Held, Steffen] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Intervent Res Exercise Training, Cologne, Germany; [Held, Steffen] IST Univ Appl Sci, Dept Sport & Management, Dusseldorf, Germany; [Haff, Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Haff, Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, England; [Geisler, Stephan] Univ Appl Sci, IST, Dept Fitness & Hlth, Dusseldorf, Germany								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115054000001	46	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Yan; Liu, Meng; Zhou, Jun; Bao, Dapeng; Li, Bin; Junhong, Zhou								Acute Effects of Fatigue on Cardiac Autonomic Nervous Activity								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			806	815		10.52082/jssm.2023.806			DEC 2023	2023	The onset of fatigue disrupts the functioning of the autonomic nervous system (ANS), potentially elevating the risk of life threatening incidents and impairing daily performance. Previous studies mainly focused on physical fatigue (PF) and mental fatigue (MF) effects on the ANS, with limited knowledge concerning the influence of physical-mental fatigue (PMF) on ANS functionality. This study aimed to assess the immediate impact of PMF on ANS function and to compare its effects with those of PF and MF on ANS function. Thirty-six physically active college students (17 females) without burnout performed 60-min cycling exercises, AX-Continuous Performance Task (AX-CPT), and cycling combined with AX-CPT to induce PF, MF, and PMF respectively. Subjective fatigue levels were measured using the Rating of Perceived Exertion scale and the Visual Analog Scale Fatigue. Heart rate variability was measured before and after each protocol to assess cardiac autonomic function. The proposed tasks successfully induced PF, MF, and PMF, demonstrated by significant changes in subjective fatigue levels. Compared with baseline, PMF decreased the root mean square of successive differences (RMSSD) between normal heartbeats (P < 0.001, d = 0.50), the standard deviation of normal-to-normal RR intervals (SDNN) (P < 0.01, d = 0.33), and the normalized high-frequency (nHF) power (P < 0.001, d = 0.32) while increased the normalized low frequency (nLF) power (P < 0.001, d = 0.35) and the nLF/nHF ratio (P < 0.001, d = 0.40). Compared with MF, PMF significantly decreased RMSSD (P < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.431), SDNN (P < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.327), nLF (P < 0.01, eta(2) = 0.201), and nHF (P < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.377) but not the nLF/nHF ratio. There were no significant differences in Delta HRV (i.e., Delta RMSSD, Delta SDNN, Delta nLF/nHF, Delta nLF, and Delta nHF), heart rate, and training impulse between PF-and PMF-inducing protocols. Cognitive performance (i.e., accuracy) in AX-CPT during the PMF-inducing protocol was significantly lower than that during the MF-inducing protocol (P < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.101). PF and PMF increased sympathetic activity and decreased parasympathetic activity, while MF enhanced parasympathetic activity.		[Chen, Yan] Beihang Univ, Sports Dept, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Chen, Yan] Beihang Univ, Intelligent Sports Joint Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Liu, Meng] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Bao, Dapeng] Beijing Sport Univ, China Athlet Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Bao, Dapeng] Beijing Sport Univ, China Inst Sport & Hlth Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Bin] Gen Adm Sport China, Cycling & Fencing Adm Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Junhong, Zhou] Harvard Med Sch, Hebrew SeniorLife Hinda & Arthur Marcus Inst Aging, Boston, MA USA; [Bao, Dapeng] Beijing Sport Univ, China Inst Sport & Hlth Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115057300001	54	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Sobrino, Jesus; Navia, Jose Antonio; Del Campo-Vecino, Juan; Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro; Veiga-Fernandez, Santiago								A New Index to Evaluate Running Coordination Based on Notational Analysis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4						10.52082/jssm.2023.790			DEC 2023	2023	The aim of this study was 1) to define a new index to describe running coordination, named % of coordination, and 2) to examine whether it could represent an order parameter in relation to running velocity. Twelve international middle-distance athletes (six males and six females) performed three trials at easy, 5000 m pace and sprint velocities while filmed from a lateral view at 240 Hz. Notational analysis of six lower-limb key events corresponding to touchdown, mid-stance and flight phases was performed with high values of intra- (maximum standard deviation = 7 ms) and inter-operator (maximum systematic bias = 6 ms) reliability. Running velocity manipulations resulted in substantial and progressive increases in stride length, stride frequency (all p's < 0.001) and % of coordination (p < 0.001; eta(2)(p) = 0.77), while duty factor showed a progressive reduction (p < 0.001, R-c(2) = 0.86). However, % of coordination depended on the stride phase (p < 0.001; eta(2)(p) = 0.78), with greater time gaps between key events in touchdown and mid-stance than in the flight phase. Results confirmed that % of coordination can illustrate changes in movement organisation, representing an easy tool for evaluating the running technique of competitive athletes.		[Martinez-Sobrino, Jesus; Veiga-Fernandez, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain; [Navia, Jose Antonio] Univ Alcala, Fac Educ, Madrid, Spain; [Del Campo-Vecino, Juan] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Fac formac Profesorado & Educ, Madrid, Spain; [Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Madrid, Spain; [Veiga-Fernandez, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115050400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Munoz, Amaia Ramirez; Vega-Diaz, Marta; Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio								Team Cohesion Profiles: Influence on the Development of Mental Skills and Stress Management								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			637	644		10.52082/jssm.2023.637			DEC 2023	2023	High-level sports competitions involve facing highly challenging situations. Athletes must maintain strong team cohesion with peers, have specific mental abilities, and high-stress control to overcome adversity and report high sports performance. This research aimed to identify team cohesion profiles and examine whether participants differed significantly in their mental abilities and stress management. The sample consisted of 146 promising and talented athletes from the Sports Talent Development of the Provincial Council of Guipuzcoa (Spain) (Mage = 20.08; SD = 4.68), who completed the questionnaire on Psychological Charlyzes revealed three profiles; (a) profile with low team cohesion; (b) profile with average team cohesion; (c) profile with high team cohesion. Results showed significant differences in mental abilities (i.e., positive self-talk), and marginally significant differences in self-confidence, between the profiles. The best scores were reported in profile (b). In conclusion, the combination of low individualism, high social cohesion, and medium team spirit seems to be the most recommendable for promoting mental abilities and programs that train the mental abilities of athletes and control management should consider the importance of team cohesion to obtain improvements in the results of the competitions.		[Munoz, Amaia Ramirez; Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Univ Int La Rioja UNIR, TECNODEF Res Grp, Fac Educ, La Rioja, Spain; [Vega-Diaz, Marta] Univ Alfonxo X el Sabio, Fac Educ, Madrid, Spain; [Vega-Diaz, Marta] Univ Alfonxo X el Sabio, Fac Educ, Madrid, Spain								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001106565400001	67	Article; Article		
J	Inami, Takayuki; Yamaguchi, Shota; Nishioka, Takuya; Ishida, Hiroyuki; Morito, Akihisa; Yamada, Satoshi; Nagata, Naoya; Murayama, Mitsuyoshi								Relationships between Changes in Muscle Shear Modulus, Urinary Titin N- Terminal Fragment, and Maximum Voluntary Contraction Torque after Eccentric Exercise of the Elbow Flexors								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			797	805		10.52082/jssm.2024.797			DEC 2023	2023	The study aimed to investigate the relationships between the shear modulus of the biceps brachii (BB) and brachialis muscle (BA) and the total of the two (BB+BA), and urinary titin N-terminal fragment (UTF), maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVC), and other indirect markers. Fifteen healthy men per-formed five sets of 10 eccentric contractions using a dumbbell corresponding to 50% of MVC at 90(degrees) measured at baseline. The elbow joint of the left arm was extended from 90(degrees) to 180(degrees) (180(degrees) = full extension) in 5 s in the exercise, and was returned with sup-port from the examiner to prevent concentric contraction. Shear modulus of BB and BA were measured by ultrasound shear wave elastography, and UTF, MVC, and range of motion of the elbow joint (ROM) were recorded before; immediately after; and 1, 24, 48, 72, 96, and 168 h after the exercise. After calculating the shear modulus of BB and BA, two values were added (BB+BA). The shear modulus peaked at 48 h, UTF peaked at 96 h, MVC and ROM changed largest at immediately, and muscle soreness peaked at 48 h post-exercise. Significant (p < 0.05) relationships were found between changes in BB shear modulus and BA shear modulus (r = 0.874), BB+BA shear modulus (r = 0.977), UTF (r = 0.681), and MVC (r = -0.538). Significant (p < 0.05) relation-ships were also observed between changes in BA shear modulus and BB+BA shear modulus (r = 0.957), UTF (r = 0.682), MVC (r = -0.522), and ROM (r = -0.600). Moreover, significant (p < 0.05) relationships were observed between changes in BB+BA shear modulus and UTF (r = 0.703), MVC (r = -0.549), and ROM (r = -0.547). These results indicate that shear modulus of each muscle (i.e., BB and BA) provide more precise information about muscle damage than UTF, MVC and ROM.		[Inami, Takayuki; Yamaguchi, Shota; Nishioka, Takuya; Nagata, Naoya; Murayama, Mitsuyoshi] Keio Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Kanagawa, Japan; [Ishida, Hiroyuki] Keio Univ, Sports Med Res Ctr, Keio, Japan; [Morito, Akihisa; Yamada, Satoshi] Taisho Pharmaceut Co Ltd, Tokyo, Japan; [Inami, Takayuki] Keio Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Sports Complex Rm 302,4-1-1 Hiyoshi, Yokohama, Kanagawa 2238521, Japan; [Inami, Takayuki] Keio Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Sports Complex Rm 302,4-1-1 Hiyoshi, Yokohama, Kanagawa 2238521, Japan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115043800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Forcher, Leander; Forcher, Leon; Altmann, Stefan; Jekauc, Darko; Kempe, Matthias								The Success Factors of Rest Defense in Soccer - A Mixed-Methods Approach of Expert Interviews, Tracking Data, and Machine Learning								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			707	725		10.52082/jssm.2023.707			DEC 2023	2023	While the tactical behavior of soccer players differs between specific phases of play (offense, defense, offensive transition, defensive transition), little is known about successful behavior of players during defensive transition (switching behavior from offense to defense). Therefore, this study aims to analyze the group tactic of rest defense (despite in ball possession, certain players safeguard quick counterattacks in case of ball loss) in defensive transition. A mixed-methods approach was used, involving both qualitative and quantitative analysis. Semi-structured expert interviews with seven professional soccer coaches were conducted to define rest defense. In the quantitative analysis, several KPIs were calculated, based on tracking and event data of 153 games of the 2020/21 German Bundesliga season, to predict the success of rest defense situations in a machine learning approach. The qualitative interviews indicated that rest defense can be defined as the positioning of the deepest defenders during ball possession to prevent an opposing counterattack after a ball loss. For instance, the rest defending players created a numerical superiority of 1.69 +/- 1.00 and allowed a space control of the attacking team of 11.51 +/- 9.82 [%] in the area of rest defense. The final machine learning model showed satisfactory prediction performance of the success of rest defense (Accuracy: 0.97, Precision: 0.73, f1-Score: 0.64, AUC: 0.60). Analysis of the individual KPIs revealed insights into successful behavior of players in rest defense, including controlling deep spaces and dangerous counterattackers. The study concludes regaining possession as fast as possible after a ball loss is the most important success factor in defensive transition.		[Forcher, Leander; Forcher, Leon; Altmann, Stefan; Jekauc, Darko] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Karlsruhe, Germany; [Forcher, Leander; Forcher, Leon] TSG 1899 Hoffenheim, Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Altmann, Stefan] TSG ResearchLab gGmbH, Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Kempe, Matthias] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen UMCG, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Forcher, Leander] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Karlsruhe, Germany; [Forcher, Leander] TSG 1899 Hoffenheim, Zuzenhausen, Germany								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001101101900001	51	Article; Article		
J	Yague, Jose M.; Salguero, Alfonso; Villegas, Antonio; Sanchez-Molina, Joaquin; Molinero, Olga								The Relative Age Effect in the Two Professional Men's Football Leagues in Spain								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			700	706		10.52082/jssm.2023.700			DEC 2023	2023	The age difference among individuals of the same group is known as Relative Age. Relative Age Effect refers to the consequences derived from it, such as delayed physical, cognitive and mental development of children born later in the year. The aim of this study was to observe the Relative Age Effect by analyzing play-ers' dates of birth throughout three seasons in the two professional football competitions in Spain based on the game positions and the teams ' classification at the end of the season. The sample was made up of players (n=4097) from both professional competitions (n(LaLiga Santander)=1864), and (n(LaLiga Smartbank)=2233). The data were collected from two public-access football statistics websites. The cut-off date was established on January 1, the year was divided into four quartiles (Q1: January-March, Q2: April-June, Q3: July-September and Q4: October-December). Results confirmed sig-nificant differences on dates of births' distribution (p<0.05) for the competitions LaLiga Santander and LaLiga Smartbank during three seasons, as well as for player position, with a larger effect observed for goalkeepers and defenders. Significant differ-ence was also observed depending on classification. Results show a clear decreasing percentage of those born in quartile 4 in rela-tion to those born in quartile 1, it can be concluded that the Rela-tive Age Effect phenomenon is present in the Spanish profes-sional football which may lead to an inappropriate talent selection technique in football, with recruitment oriented to the short term, to immediate results, and possibly caused by the early start of the player selection process.		[Yague, Jose M.; Salguero, Alfonso; Villegas, Antonio; Molinero, Olga] Univ Leon, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain; [Salguero, Alfonso] Univ Leon, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001101226500001	35	Article; Article		
J	Li, Ming; Meng, Xiangwei; Guan, Lihao; Kim, Youngsuk; Kim, Sukwon								Comparing the Effects of Static Stretching Alone and in Combination with Post-Activation Performance Enhancement on Squat Jump Performance at Different Knee Starting Angles								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			769	777		10.52082/jssm.2023.769			DEC 2023	2023	We aimed to investigate the impact of isolated static stretching (4 sets of 30 seconds) and its combined form with 10 repetitive drop jumps on lower limb performance during squat jumps at different knee joint starting angles (60 degrees, 90 degrees, and 120 degrees). Thirteen participants completed three randomly ordered experimental visits, each including a standardized warm-up and squat jumps at three angles, apart from the intervention or control. Information was gathered through a three-dimensional movement tracking system, electromyography system, and force platform. The electromyography data underwent wavelet analysis to compute the energy values across the four wavelet frequency bands. The average power (Pavg), peak power (Ppeak), peak ground reaction force (GRFpeak), peak center of mass velocity (Vpeak), and force-velocity relationship at peak power (SFv) were extracted from the force and velocity-time data. The results revealed no significant influence of isolated static stretching, or its combined form with drop jumps, on the energy values across the frequency bands of the gastrocnemius, biceps femoris and rectus femoris, or the Pavg or Ppeak (P > 0.05). However, at 120 degrees, static stretching reduced the GRFpeak (P = 0.001, d = 0.86) and SFv (P < 0.001, d = 1.12), and increased the Vpeak (P = 0.001, d = 0.5). The GRFpeak, Pavg, Ppeak, and SFv increased with an increase in the joint angle (P < 0.05), whereas the Vpeak decreased (P < 0.05). These findings suggest that static stretching does not diminish power output during squat jumps at the three angles; however, it alters GRFpeak, Vpeak, and the relative contributions of force and velocity to peak power at 120 degrees, which can be eliminated by post-activation performance enhancement. Moreover, compared to 60 degrees and 90 degrees, 120 degrees was more favorable for power and peak force output.		[Li, Ming; Guan, Lihao; Kim, Youngsuk; Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju, South Korea; [Meng, Xiangwei] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Phys Educ Dept, Jeonju, South Korea; [Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju 54896, South Korea; [Kim, Sukwon] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Jeonju 54896, South Korea								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:001106850200001	50	Article; Article		
J	Sorgente, Vincenzo; Lopez-Hernandez, Alejandro; Minciacchi, Diego; Rave, Jose Maria Gonzalez								Diving into Recovery. The Effects of Different Post-Competition Protocols for Enhancing Physio-Psychological Parameters in National Level Youth Swimmers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			739	747		10.52082/jssm.2023.739			DEC 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to elucidate whether a specific approach regarding active swimming recovery could better promote psycho-physiological recovery right after competing in a high-level swimming race. To achieve this, we recruited 50 national level youth swimmers, randomly and equally assigning them to two groups, named "experimental" and "coach prescribed". Each group performed a specific post-competition recovery protocol, consisting of different swimming paces, rest times, self -management of the exercises. We gathered data about blood lactate (BL), heart rate (HR), and rate of perceived exertion (RPE) at two different moments, the first moment right after the swimming competition (named post-competition phase), the second moment right after swimming the respective recovery protocol assigned (named post-recovery phase). A mixed MANOVA with Tukey HSD post-hoc analysis revealed no significant differences between the experimental and coach-prescribed groups in BL, HR, and RPE at the post-competition phase. At the post-recovery phase, however, the experimental group presented lower BL levels than the coach-prescribed group (2.40 +/- 1.18 vs. 4.29 +/- 2.07 mmol/L, p < 0.05). Finally, we found no interaction of swimming race ranking on recovery capacities. We conclude that for immediate improvement of BL in a wide range of high-level swimmers, an efficient recovery protocol should consist of several paces, high volumes, fixed and short rest times, whereas the widely popular self-managed, lower intensity approach does not seem as equally effective. Our study advances the development of novel recommendations for optimizing immediate fatigue management in competitive swimming.		[Sorgente, Vincenzo; Minciacchi, Diego] Univ Florence, Dept Expt & Clin Med, Kinesiol & Motor Control Ki Mo Co Lab, Florence, Italy; [Lopez-Hernandez, Alejandro] Castilla La Mancha Swimming Federat, Albacete, Spain; [Rave, Jose Maria Gonzalez] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sports Sci, Sport Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Sorgente, Vincenzo] Univ Florence, Dept Expt & Clin Med, Viale Morgagni 63, I-50134 Florence, Italy; [Sorgente, Vincenzo] Univ Florence, Dept Expt & Clin Med, Viale Morgagni 63, I-50134 Florence, Italy								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001104284200001	45	Article; Article		
J	van Duijn, Tina; Button, Chris; Cotter, James D.; Masters, Rich S. W.								Energetic and Cognitive Demands of Treading Water: Effects of Technique and Expertise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			726	738		10.52082/jssm.2023.726			DEC 2023	2023	Being able to tread water effectively can improve the likelihood of survival following accidental immersion. People tread water in various ways, ranging from rudimentary 'doggy-paddle' to more elaborate techniques like the eggbeater, but little is known about the energetic and cognitive requirements of treading wa-ter. We therefore aimed to measure the demands of treading wa-ter techniques for people of different experience levels. Three cohorts, comprising 21 adult water treading experts (water polo players), 15 intermediate swimmers and 16 inexperienced swim-mers, treaded water for 3 min each using four different tech-niques while cognitive and energetic economy measures were taken. For inexperienced swimmers, the flutter kick and breast-stroke patterns produced the lowest self-reported physical and task load (rating of perceived exertion, NASA task load index), while cognitive (probe reaction time), cardiac (heart rate) and metabolic (oxygen consumption) load did not differ between techniques. In contrast, for expert water treaders, both breast-stroke and eggbeater patterns produced lower cognitive, cardiac and metabolic loads. For intermediate swimmers, breaststroke resulted in the lowest cardiac and metabolic loads, as well as self-reported task load. Probe reaction time was highest while performing the eggbeater technique, indicating that this tech-nique was challenging to coordinate and cognitively demanding. While the energetic demands of antiphase kicking patterns (such as eggbeater in experts or flutter kick in beginners) may be sim-ilarly low, the symmetric coordination of upright breaststroke may explain why this pattern's cognitive economy was favour-able for all groups. As the eggbeater can be challenging to per -form for many people, an upright breaststroke technique is an adequate alternative to adopt in survival situations.		[van Duijn, Tina; Button, Chris; Cotter, James D.] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin, New Zealand; [van Duijn, Tina] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Human Performance Res Ctr, Moore Pk, Australia; [van Duijn, Tina] Univ Technol Sydney, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Moore Pk, Australia; [Masters, Rich S. W.] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Hamilton, New Zealand; [van Duijn, Tina] Univ Technol Sydney, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Rugby Australia Bldg,Moore Pk Rd, Moore Pk, NSW 2021, Australia; [van Duijn, Tina] Univ Technol Sydney, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Rugby Australia Bldg,Moore Pk Rd, Moore Pk, NSW 2021, Australia								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001100749200001	63	Article; Article		
J	Pedley, Jason S.; Radnor, John M.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Oliver, Jon L.								Analyzing Drop Jump Ground Reaction Forces in Microsoft Excel								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	6			683	697		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000776			DEC 2023	2023	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. Analysis of ground reaction forces during a drop jump can provide greater insight into stretch-shortening cycle function and jump-landing strategy than performance metrics such as jump height, ground contact time, and reactive strength index. Commercially available force plates have customized processing software capable of calculating many variables, but this software can be cost-prohibitive for many academics and practitioners. Using the accompanying spreadsheet outlined in this article, any professional can quickly process force plate data and enhance their assessment of an athlete's stretch-shortening cycle function and plyometric performance to guide future training objectives.		[Pedley, Jason S.; Radnor, John M.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Oliver, Jon L.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Oliver, Jon L.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Pedley, Jason S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:001114503700003	61	Article; Article		
J	Mitrousis, Ioannis; Bourdas, Dimitrios I.; Kounalakis, Stylianos; Bekris, Evangelos; Mitrotasios, Michael; Kostopoulos, Nikolaos; Ktistakis, Ioannis E.; Zacharakis, Emmanouil								The Effect of a Balance Training Program on the Balance and Technical Skills of Adolescent Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			645	657		10.52082/jssm.2023.645			DEC 2023	2023	Soccer is a complex sport, and balance appears to play a crucial role in the quality execution of technical skills, which are mostly performed while standing on one foot. Nevertheless, in younger ages, when learning still affects soccer performance, the effect of a balance-training program on the player's balance and technical skills remains unexplored. This research examined the effect of a balance-training program (BTP) on balance and technical skills of adolescent soccer players. The participating volunteers were thirty-two soccer players (12 - 13 years old with 3.84 +/- 0.95 years of practice), randomly separated into two groups: an experimental (EXP, n1 = 17) and a control group (CON, n2 = 15). Both groups were evaluated in static and dynamic balance and in technical skills (dribbling, passing, juggling, and shooting with dominant and non-dominant legs) before (Pre-condition) and after the intervention (Post-condition) which was an eight-week BTP for the EXP group and a placebo-training program for the CON group. A 2 by 2 (groupsxcondition) mixed analysis of variance (ANOVA) with repeated measures on the condition factor was used to assess possible differences between groups. A significant groups x condition interaction effect was found in dynamic balance (p = 0.008), static (p = 0.042), and shooting (p = 0.022) with dominant leg performance. The EXP group improved (p = 0.007) its static balance by 37.82% and also significantly improved its dynamic balance and shooting accuracy with dominant leg in Post condition by 24.98% (p = 0.006) and 83.84% (p = 0.006) respectively. No significant improvement of other variables was detected in the EXP group Post condition. Dynamic and static balance, and shooting with dominant leg skills can be improved in adolescent soccer players through a specialized 8-week BTP. Balance-training program may contribute to technical skill improvement in soccer training.		[Mitrousis, Ioannis; Bourdas, Dimitrios I.; Bekris, Evangelos; Mitrotasios, Michael; Kostopoulos, Nikolaos; Ktistakis, Ioannis E.; Zacharakis, Emmanouil] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece; [Kounalakis, Stylianos] Hellen Army Acad, Vari, Greece; [Zacharakis, Emmanouil] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:001089568900001	53	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Leslie E.; Van Guilder, Gary P.; Dalleck, Lance C.; Lewis, Nicole R.; Dages, Allison G.; Harris, Nigel K.								A Preliminary Investigation into the Frequency Dose Effects of High-Intensity Functional Training on Cardiometabolic Health								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			688	699		10.52082/jssm.2023.688			DEC 2023	2023	The objective of this study was to explore the effects of three weekly frequency doses of high-intensity functional training (HIFT) on an array of cardiometabolic markers in adults with metabolic syndrome (MetS). Twenty-one men and women, randomized into one (HIFT1), two (HIFT2), or three (HIFT3) days per week of HIFT, completed 3-weeks of familiarization plus a 12-week progressive training program. Pre-and post -intervention, several cardiometabolic, body composition, oxygen consumption, metabolic syndrome severity, and perceptions of fitness measurements were assessed. Additionally, an exercise enjoyment survey was administered post-intervention. A Cohen's d was used to demonstrate within-group change effect size. Although this study was not fully powered, a one-way and two-way ANOVA were used to compare the dose groups to provide provisional insights. No differences were found when frequency dose groups were compared. Many cardiometabolic, body composition, and fitness improvements were seen within each group, with clinically meaningful improvements in the metabolic syndrome severity score (MSSS) (HIFT1:-0.105, d = 0.28; HIFT2:-0.382, d = 1.20; HIFT3:-0.467, d = 1.07), waist circumference (HIFT1:-4.1cm, d = 3.33; HIFT2: -5.4cm, d = 0.89; HIFT3: -0.7cm, d = 0.20), and blood glucose (HIFT1:-9.5mg/dL, d = 0.98; HIFT2: 4.9mg/dL, d = 1.00; HIFT3: -1.7mg/dL, d = 0.23). All three groups similarly reported high exercise enjoyment and likeliness to continue after the intervention. In conclusion, HIFT performed once, twice, or thrice a week elicits improvements in MetS and is considered enjoyable. HIFT, even at a low weekly dose, therefore represents a potential strategy to reduce the global MetS burden.		[Smith, Leslie E.; Van Guilder, Gary P.; Dalleck, Lance C.; Lewis, Nicole R.; Dages, Allison G.] Western Colorado Univ, Recreat Exercise & Sport Sci Dept, Gunnison, CO 81231 USA; [Harris, Nigel K.] Auckland Univ Technol, Human Potential Ctr, Auckland, New Zealand; [Smith, Leslie E.] Western Colorado Univ, Recreat Exercise & Sport Sci Dept, Gunnison, CO 81231 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001090337700001	67	Article; Article		
J	Kasahara, Kazuki; Konrad, Andreas; Murakami, Yuta; Yoshida, Riku; Thomas, Ewan; Nakamura, Masatoshi								Acute Effects of Different Foam Roller Intervention Techniques on Knee Extensors								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			681	687		10.52082/jssm.2023.681			DEC 2023	2023	The usefulness of Foam Roller (FR) even without a rolling stimulus (e.g., static compression with or without dynamic joint movements) has been recently demonstrated; however, the different effects of these methods remain unclear. Thus, this study aimed to compare and investigate the effects of such FR intervention methods on knee extensors. The dominant knee extensors of 20 male university students were investigated using the following four conditions: control (CON), FR with rolling (FR_rolling), FR with static compression (FR_SC), and FR with static compression + dynamic movement of the knee joint (FR_DM). FR_SC was intervened to compress the muscle belly of the knee extensors. FR_DM involved knee flexion and extension while maintaining the FR_SC condition. Knee flexion ROM, pain pressure threshold (PPT), tissue hardness, and countermovement jump (CMJ) height were outcome variables; they were compared before and immediately after the intervention. The results of this study showed that knee flexion ROM was significantly (p < 0.01) increased in FR_rolling (d = 0.38), FR_SC (d = 0.28), and FR_DM (d = 0.64). Tissue hardness was significantly (p < 0.01) decreased in FR_rolling (d = -0.55), FR_SC (d = -0.28), and FR_DM (d = -0.42). A main effect of time (p < 0.01) was observed in knee flexion ROM, PPT, and tissue hardness, but no change in CMJ was observed. The results of this study suggested that clinicians and athletes could choose any method they like as a warm-up routine.		[Kasahara, Kazuki; Murakami, Yuta] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Yoshida, Riku] Maniwa Orthoped Clin, Higashi Ku, Yamakido, Niigata, Japan; [Thomas, Ewan] Univ Palermo, Dept Psychol Educ Sci & Human Movement, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Unit, Palermo, Italy; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Kanzaki, Saga, Japan; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Kanzaki, Saga, Japan								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001085156800001	27	Article; Article		
J	Kloss, Emily B.; Givens, Andrea; Palombo, Laura; Bernards, Jake; Niederberger, Brenda; Bennett, Daniel W.; Kelly, Karen R.								Validation of Polar Grit X Pro for Estimating Energy Expenditure during Military Field Training: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			658	666		10.52082/jssm.2023.658			DEC 2023	2023	Wearables are lightweight, portable technology devices that are traditionally used to monitor physical activity and workload as well as basic physiological parameters such as heart rate. However recent advances in monitors have enabled better algorithms for estimation of caloric expenditure from heart rate for use in weight loss as well as sport performance. can be used for estimating energy expenditure and nutritional demand. Recently, the military has adopted the use of personal wearables for utilization in field studies for ecological validity of training. With popularity of use, the need for validation of these devices for caloric estimates is needed to assist in work-rest cycles. Thus the purpose of this effort was to evaluate the Polar Grit X for energy expenditure (EE) for use in military training exercises. Polar Grit X Pro watches were worn by active-duty elite male operators (N = 16; age: 31.7 +/- 5.0 years, height: 180.1 +/- 6.2 cm, weight: 91.7 +/- 9.4 kg). Metrics were measured against indirect calorimetry of a metabolic cart and heart rate via a Polar heart rate monitor chest strap while exercising on a treadmill. Participants each performed five 10-minute bouts of running at a self-selected speed and incline to maintain a heart rate within one of five heart rate zones, as ordered and defined by Polar. Polar Grit X Pro watch had a good to excellent interrater reliability to indirect calorimetry at estimating energy expenditure (ICC = 0.8, 95% CI = 0.61 0.89, F (74,17.3) = 11.76, p < 0.0001) and a fair to good interrater reliability in estimating macronutrient partitioning (ICC = 0.49, 95% CI = 0.3 0.65, F (74,74.54) = 2.98, p < 0.0001). There is a strong relationship between energy expenditure as estimated from the Polar Grit X Pro and measured through indirect calorimetry. The Polar Grit X Pro watch is a suitable tool for estimating energy expenditure in free-living participants in a field setting and at a range of exercise intensities.		[Kloss, Emily B.; Givens, Andrea; Palombo, Laura; Bernards, Jake; Niederberger, Brenda; Bennett, Daniel W.; Kelly, Karen R.] Naval Hlth Res Ctr, Warfighter Performance Dept, Appl Translat Exercise & Metab Physiol Team, San Diego, CA 92152 USA; [Kloss, Emily B.; Givens, Andrea; Palombo, Laura; Bernards, Jake; Bennett, Daniel W.] Leidos Inc, San Diego, CA USA; [Kelly, Karen R.] Naval Hlth Res Ctr, Warfighter Performance Dept, Appl Translat Exercise & Metab Physiol Team, San Diego, CA 92152 USA								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001084527800001	38	Article; Article		
J	Grycan, Jerzy; Kolodziej, Malgorzata; Bankosz, Ziemowit								Technical and Tactical Actions of the World's Leading Male Table Tennis Players Between 1970 and 2021								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			667	680		10.52082/jssm.2023.667			DEC 2023	2023	This research aimed to determine the quantitative and qualitative structure of winning systems of the world's leading male table tennis players between 1970 and 2021. The study used the Wu game analysis method, modified by the authors, which consists of observing the game from playback, identifying the winning actions of a given player, and sorting and counting the actions, depending on the accuracy of the observation. The project identified all World Championships and Olympic Games medallists, resulting in 244 men's matches being analyzed. Three time periods were considered based on the ball used, including the 38 mm celluloid ball, 40 mm celluloid ball, and 40 mm plastic ball. Differences in the level structure, depending on the observation period, were assessed using the chi-squared test of independence. The Pearson contingency coefficient was calculated, and multiple comparisons were made. The research showed that the use of combinations changed slightly with changes in ball size and material. The first three strokes were very important in all periods. However, the importance of serves as direct scoring strokes decreased. These findings may be related to changes in the size and material used for ball production. The most winning serves in the game of the top men were side-spin forehand serves, which were also used most often during 3rd-ball-attack winning combinations. The number of actions won directly with a return, and in the return-counterattack combination, accounted for, and still constitute, about 30%, with an increasing number of backhand flicks. The research also showed an increase in the use of back-hand strokes compared to forehand strokes. These findings should be considered when creating basic goals in table tennis training plans.		[Grycan, Jerzy] Polish Table Tennis Assoc, PL-02819 Warsaw, Poland; [Kolodziej, Malgorzata; Bankosz, Ziemowit] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Biomech, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland; [Bankosz, Ziemowit] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Biomech, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001084216300001	45	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Trevor C.; Chou, Tai-Ying; Nosaka, Kazunori								Adequate Interval between Matches in Elite Female Soccer Players (Retracted article. See vol. 24, pg. 712, 2025); Adequate Interval between Matches in Elite Female Soccer Players (Retraction of Vol 22, Pg 614, 2023)								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE; JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			614	625		10.52082/jssm.2023.614			DEC 2023	2023	The present study compared four different intervals between three simulated soccer matches for changes in muscle damage and performance parameters. Thirteen well-trained female university soccer players performed three bouts of 90-min Loughborough Intermittent Shuttle Test (LIST) with four different intervals between bouts; one (1d), two (2d), three (3d) and four days (4d), with >12-weeks between conditions in a counterbalanced order. Heart rate, blood lactate, rating of perceived exertion and distance covered in each LIST were measured. Changes in several muscle damage markers (e.g., maximal voluntary isometric torque of the knee extensors: MVC-KE, muscle soreness), performance parameters (e.g., Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test level 1: Yo-Yo IR1), and blood measures (e.g., osmolality, high sensitivity cardiac troponin T) before the first LIST, 1 h after each LIST, and one to five days after the third LIST were compared among the conditions. The total distance covered during the first two LISTs was not different among the conditions, but that during the third LIST was shorter (P < 0.05) for the 1d (9,416 +/- 885 m) and 2d conditions (9,737 +/- 246 m) than the 3d (10,052 +/- 490 m) and 4d conditions (10,432 +/- 538 m). Changes in all measures were smaller (P < 0.05) in the 3d and 4d conditions (e.g., the decrease in MVC-KE at one day after the third LIST was -13 +/- 4% and -10 +/- 3%, respectively) when compared with the 1d and 2d conditions (-20 +/- 7%, -18 +/- 5%). Performance parameters showed smaller (P < 0.05) changes in the 4d (e.g., the decrease in Yo-Yo IR1 at one day after the third LIST was -9 +/- 3%) and 3d (-13 +/- 6%) conditions when compared with the 1d (-19 +/- 4%) and 2d (-20 +/- 8%) conditions. These results suggest that muscle damage and fatigue accumulate when soccer matches are performed three consecutive days or every other day, but if more than three days are inserted between matches, this could be minimized.		[Chen, Trevor C.] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Taipei City, Taiwan; [Chou, Tai-Ying] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, Taipei City, Taiwan; [Nosaka, Kazunori] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Chen, Trevor C.] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, POB 97-71 Wenshan Wansheng, Taipei City 11699, Taiwan; [Chen, Trevor C.] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, POB 97-71 Wenshan Wansheng, Taipei City 11699, Taiwan								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001082871600001	50	Article; Retracted Publication; Article; Retracted Publication		
J	Dodds, Fitzgerald; Fabre, Davis; Schrum, Kevin; Oster, Robert; Buford, Thomas; Gould, Sara								A novel equestrian helmet testing method: helmet liner performance in highly realistic simulation								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			381	385		10.1080/00913847.2023.2282381			JUL 3 2024	2024	ObjectiveEmploy a novel testing method to assess Multi Directional Impact Protection System (MIPS) helmet technology on rotational velocity and acceleration during head impact.MethodsAn optimization study was completed utilizing a 50th percentile male Hybrid III anthropomorphic test device (ATD). Helmets included expanded polystyrene foam (EPS) and two different MIPS helmets (MIPS 1, MIPS 2). A 24.38-m-long elevated track with rails and a motorized sled was utilized to replicate a fall from approximately 2.13 m. The sled was set to a speed of 20.92 kph, where a tripping mechanism induced rotation in the ATD from the sled and onto a sand surface. During impact of the ATD with the sand surface, head kinematics were measured using resultant acceleration (peak G's), duration of impact (ms), and rotational velocity (rad/s).ResultsA total of three trials for each helmet did not demonstrate a significant difference between the EPS vs. MIPS 1 group with, peak (G's) for resultant acceleration (p = 0.100), duration (ms) for resultant acceleration, (p = 0.100), peak (G's) for rotational velocity, (p = 0.700), and duration (ms) for rotational velocity (p = 0.700). Similarly, the EPS vs. MIPS 2 testing demonstrated no significant differences between the MIPS 2 helmet compared to the EPS helmet, with resultant acceleration (p = 0.400), duration acceleration (p = 0.200), rotational velocity (p = 0.400) and duration velocity (p = 0.400). However, when the MIPS helmet data were pooled, and the EPS helmet data were compared, a statistically significant difference in the duration of acceleration was found (p = 0.048).ConclusionsCurrent testing uses a helmeted head form which is dropped or rolled from a prescribed height. These methods discount the loading placed on the neck and head through the angular momentum of the body. Our novel testing method did not find significant differences between the helmet types in diminishing peak rotational forces to the brain; however, our data suggests that MIPS helmet liners may reduce duration of impact. The reduction of acceleration duration could indicate less rotation of the neck, due to the dampening of these forces by the MIPS liners.		[Dodds, Fitzgerald] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Sch Hlth Profess, 1313 13th St S, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA; [Fabre, Davis] Sch Hlth Profess, Winterthur, Switzerland; [Schrum, Kevin] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Sch Engn, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA; [Oster, Robert; Buford, Thomas] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Sch Med, Dept Med, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA; [Gould, Sara] Birmingham VA Med Ctr, Dept Emergency Med, Birmingham, AL USA; [Gould, Sara] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Div Sports Med, Dept Orthoped, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA; [Dodds, Fitzgerald] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Sch Hlth Profess, 1313 13th St S, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001152288300001	18	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Ye Hoon; Shin, Wonsang; Cho, Heetae								Factors influencing the intentions of people with disabilities to participate in e-sports: An application of the theory of planned behavior								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1153	1163		10.1177/17479541231216411			JUN 2024	2024	This study aimed to investigate the factors that influence the intention of people with disabilities to participate in e-sports and actual participation. The theory of planned behavior (TPB) was used as a theoretical framework to guide this study. Involving 243 participants with a mean age of 42.56 years (SD = 18.14), this study encompasses a range of disabilities, predominantly physical (47.0%), representing diverse educational backgrounds with 20.1% having at least a college education. The data were analyzed using confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modeling. We found that both attitudes toward e-sports and perceived behavioral control to engage in e-sports were positively associated with e-sports participation intention. Intention, in turn, was positively associated with actual e-sports participation. Furthermore, e-sports participation intention mediated the relationship between attitude toward e-sports and perceived behavioral control. This study has the potential to contribute to the academic discourse by identifying factors that may influence the intention of people with disabilities to engage in e-sports, employing the TPB. The results can help researchers and practitioners understand how to design effective interventions to promote e-sports participation among people with disabilities.		[Lee, Ye Hoon] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Div Global Sport Ind, Seoul, South Korea; [Shin, Wonsang] Korean Paralymp Comm KPC, Planning & Adm Off, Seoul, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Susungkwan 05131,2066 Seobu Ro, Suwon 16419, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Susungkwan 05131,2066 Seobu Ro, Suwon 16419, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001119562900001	43	Article; Article		
J	Miceli, Thomas J.								A Note on the Preferences of Sports Fans: Partisanship Versus Uncertainty of Outcome								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	2			155	168		10.1177/15270025231217965			FEB 2024	2024	Since its inception, a core principle of sports economics has been the claim that fans desire balanced competition-the so-called Uncertainty of Outcome Hypothesis (UOH). While this idea has intuitive appeal, it runs counter to the equally obvious importance of partisanship in shaping fan interest in sporting contests. The absence of a well-accepted theoretical basis for the UOH, coupled with a lack of compelling empirical evidence in support of it, suggests important gaps in the literature. This paper takes a step toward addressing the former need by offering a contest utility function, based on standard Cobb-Douglas preferences, which embodies both partisanship and a demand for competitive balance. The model is used to derive a willingness-to-pay function for game tickets and an expression for aggregate attendance. Findings from the empirical literature are discussed in light of the analysis.		[Miceli, Thomas J.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Econ, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Miceli, Thomas J.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Econ, Storrs, CT 06269 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001111084300001	24	Article; Article		
J	Tribolet, Rhys; Sheehan, William B.; Novak, Andrew R.; Watsford, Mark L.; Fransen, Job								An observational study of player behaviours under varying task constraints in professional Australian football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1747	1756		10.1177/17479541231215896			AUG 2024	2024	An evaluation of player behaviour and performance across different playing conditions in team sport is difficult. This study examined integrative (indegree and outdegree importance) and individual (goals, kicks, handballs, marks, tackles, kick and handball proficiency) level behaviours at one professional Australian Football club across three different conditions: small-sided games (SSGs), match simulation and competitive Australian Football League (AFL) matches. Estimated marginal means identified negligible changes for integrative measures across conditions. This may suggest larger changes to control parameters are required to modify these behaviours, as it relies on interdependent cooperative behaviour. Individual level behaviours demonstrated varied responses across changing conditions. AFL matches revealed the lowest kicks and marks per minute compared to the other conditions, whilst having the highest rate of tackles. Players had lower kick proficiency in conditions with a higher number of players. Moreover, one SSG with a floater (player who participates in attack for both teams) elicited a higher number of handballs per minute relative to every other condition. These findings provide implications for measuring the (in)stability of individual and integrative level behaviours and how changes to constraints may alter these metrics. This method may provide a foundation for future hypotheses testing and for player monitoring that can assist practitioners to examine the changes in players behaviours in response to changing constraints.		[Tribolet, Rhys; Sheehan, William B.; Novak, Andrew R.; Watsford, Mark L.; Fransen, Job] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Human Performance Res Ctr, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, Australia; [Tribolet, Rhys; Sheehan, William B.] Sydney Swans Football Club, Sydney, Australia; [Fransen, Job] Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands; [Tribolet, Rhys] Univ Technol Sydney, Human Performance Res Ctr, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Fac Hlth, UTS Rugby Australia Bldg,Corner Driver Ave & Moore, Moore Pk, NSW 2021, Australia; [Tribolet, Rhys] Univ Technol Sydney, Human Performance Res Ctr, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Fac Hlth, UTS Rugby Australia Bldg,Corner Driver Ave & Moore, Moore Pk, NSW 2021, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001109571000001	31	Article; Article		
J	Tissera, Kevin; Orth, Dominic; Huynh, Minh; Benson, Amanda C.								A coach's perspective on augmented feedback (and technology) in cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			562	572		10.1177/17479541231213540			APR 2024	2024	Coaches utilise augmented feedback to help channel learning and skill acquisition in sports. However, the rationale and pedagogical approaches underpinning feedback (and technology) strategies employed by coaches remain poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to explore cricket coaches understanding towards the role of feedback, and how feedback (and technology) strategies are enacted within practice settings, viewed within pedagogical frameworks. An online questionnaire (Qualtrics) consisted of fixed-text and free-text questions. Fixed-text responses were analysed exploring associations (frequencies, chi-square) or differences (Mann-Whitney U) between coaching groups, with free-text questions examined through reflexive thematic analysis, exploring approaches to presenting athletes with feedback (and technology use). Overall, 134 coaches (94% male, 6% female) aged 18-69 years from 12 countries responded to the questionnaire. Following silhouette and k-modes cluster analysis, results were explored for two coaching groups: community cricket coaches (n = 84, 63%) and higher-performance coaches (n = 50, 37%). Significant differences showed greater coaching experience, qualifications, and time spent coaching per week for the higher-performance coaching group (p < 0.0125), in addition to higher self-efficacy around feedback, albeit with a small effect size (p < 0.001, r = 0.29). Community coaches showed a significant difference in manipulating feedback strategies on motivational factors (p < 0.0125). Reflexive thematic analysis identified different rationales for the perceived role of feedback and use of technology across coaching groups, underpinned by contrasting pedagogical approaches (coach-centred versus athlete-centred). Responses highlighted the co-adaptive properties of coach-athlete dyads (evident in how/why feedback was manipulated). Overall findings present opportunities to further coach education to improve understanding and operationalisation of feedback (and technology).		[Tissera, Kevin; Benson, Amanda C.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Hlth Sci & Biostat, Sport Innovat Res Grp, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Orth, Dominic] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Hlth Sci & Biostat, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Orth, Dominic] Brunel Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, London, England; [Huynh, Minh] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Tissera, Kevin] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Hlth Sci & Biostat, Sport Innovat Res Grp, 1 Alfred St, Hawthorn, Vic 3122, Australia; [Tissera, Kevin] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Hlth Sci & Biostat, Sport Innovat Res Grp, 1 Alfred St, Hawthorn, Vic 3122, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001110303400001	51	Article; Article		
J	Suphasubtrakul, Thitirat; Lekskulchai, Raweewan; Jalayondeja, Chutima; Herrington, L.								Balance, strength and physical activity after ankle sprain: Comparison between children with chronic ankle instability and copers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				49	53		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.11.004			JAN 2024	2024	Objective: The aim of this study was to compare muscle strength, balance, and physical activity between children with chronic ankle instability and copers. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Pediatric Physical Therapy laboratory. Participants: Children aged between 7 and 12 years old from regular schools who had a history of unilateral ankle sprain. Main outcome measures: Lower extremity strength, Static and dynamic standing balance, and Level of physical activity. Results: Fifteen children with chronic ankle instability and 15 copers were recruited. Demographic data showed no differences between group except for sex and the Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool-Youth (CAITY) score. Children with CAI had a significantly lower score during the standing long jump test (p < 0.05), poorer performance of single leg stance test (p < 0.001) and Y-Balance test in the anterior, posteromedial, and posterolateral directions (p < 0.05) when compared to copers. Total METs per week was significantly higher in the copers (p < 0.05). Conclusion: Children with chronic ankle instability exhibited weaker lower limb strength, poorer static and dynamic standing balance, and participate in less physical activity compared to those in a coper group which may have future negative health consequences. Knowledge about the differences between the two groups may provide guidance for physical educators and physical therapists. (200 words)		[Suphasubtrakul, Thitirat; Lekskulchai, Raweewan; Jalayondeja, Chutima; Herrington, L.] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Rd, Salaya 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Lekskulchai, Raweewan] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Rd, Salaya 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001163900100001	28	Article; Article		
J	Twohey, Eric; Velasco, George; Neidecker, John; Giovane, Richard								Knockout rates across the states as a way of predicting injury and knockout based on fighter sex, weight, or experience								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			395	399		10.1080/00913847.2023.2285716			JUL 3 2024	2024	Combat sports, such as boxing and mixed martial arts [MMA], have the unique objective to finish a bout by way of knockout [KO] or technical knockout [TKO]. There are potentially both short- and long-term neurological injuries that can happen as a result of the repeated head trauma sustained in bouts, and thus it is imperative to identify the athletes that are at increased risk. Using an online database of professional boxing bouts [boxrec.com] over a 6-month period, KO/TKO rates were calculated across different states, weight classes, sex, and Fight Exposure Score [FES] categories. There was found to be a significant association between KO/TKO rates and weight class, sex, and FES category with heavyweights, males and FES 0 boxers having higher KO/TKO rates. KO/TKO rates were increased in winless boxers. KO/TKO rates across the states are documented in the study.		[Twohey, Eric] Mayo Clin, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Velasco, George] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Rancho Santa Margarita, CA USA; [Neidecker, John] Orthopaed Specialists North Carolina, Sports Med, Raleigh, NC USA; [Giovane, Richard] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Birmingham, AL USA; [Twohey, Eric] Mayo Clin, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Rochester, MN 55905 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001118114600001	21	Article; Article		
J	Pulver, Mathieu; Hilfiker, Roger; Bizzini, Mario; Mathieu, Nicolas; Meyer, Stephan; Allet, Lara								Clinical practice and barriers among Swiss physiotherapists treating patients with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: A survey of pre-operative rehabilitation to return to sport								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				38	48		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.10.007			JAN 2024	2024	Objectives: To investigate current clinical practice of Swiss physiotherapists treating patients with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) from pre-operative rehabilitation until return to sport (RTS). We assessed optimisation strategies in daily practice and the perceived barriers to these optimisations, and evaluated whether there was a relevant difference in clinical practice for physiotherapists with post-graduate certification in sports physiotherapy or deep clinical experience and those without such experience. Design: Cross-sectional survey. Setting: Online survey platform. Participants: Swiss physiotherapists. Main outcome measures: The survey comprised six sections: participant information, pre-operative rehabilitation, post-operative rehabilitation, RTS, re-injury prevention, and optimisation strategies and barriers. Results: A minority of physiotherapists treated ACLR patients pre-operatively. Overall, 91% included quadriceps open kinetic chain exercise in their treatment, 37% used patient-reported outcomes measures (PROMs) and 39% considered psychological criteria when making decisions about RTS. Most physiotherapists (67%) felt limited due to the time available, the number of prescriptions and the tariffication system. Conclusion: This study highlights areas within ACLR rehabilitation practice in Switzerland that could be improve. Improvements in understanding of the barriers to implementation of best evidence in practice and a redefinition of the clinical process around ACLR rehabilitation in Switzerland are necessary.		[Pulver, Mathieu] Bern Univ Appl Sci, Dept Hlth Profess, Bern, Switzerland; [Pulver, Mathieu; Allet, Lara] Univ Appl Sci & Arts Western Switzerland, Sch Hlth Sci, HES SO Valais Wallis, Sion, Switzerland; [Hilfiker, Roger] Physiotherapy Tschopp & Hilfiker, Glis, Switzerland; [Bizzini, Mario] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland; [Mathieu, Nicolas] Univ Appl Sci & Arts Western Switzerland, HES SO Valais Wallis, Sch Hlth Sci, Leukerbad, Switzerland; [Meyer, Stephan] Swiss Fed Inst Sport Magglingen SFISM, Sport Physiotherapy, Magglingen, Switzerland; [Allet, Lara] The Sense, Innovat & Res Ctr, Sion, Switzerland; [Allet, Lara] Univ Hosp Geneva, Dept Med, Geneva, Switzerland; [Allet, Lara] Univ Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland; [Pulver, Mathieu] Effingerstr 94, CH-3008 Bern, Switzerland; [Pulver, Mathieu] Effingerstr 94, CH-3008 Bern, Switzerland								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001127110600001	57	Article; Article		
J	Lau, Rachel; Mukherjee, Swarup								Developing the Singapore youth shoulder overuse injury prevention program								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				30	37		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.11.001			JAN 2024	2024	Objectives: To develop the Singapore Youth Shoulder Overuse Injury Prevention Program specifically for competitive overhead youth athletes in Singapore. Design: Two-round online Delphi technique with experts and a feasibility assessment questionnaire with youth athletes who represented end-users. Setting: Volleyball for youth athletes. Participants: Experts were recruited through purposive sampling based on their knowledge and experience. Youth athletes were recruited though a volleyball club. Main outcome measures: The main outcome measure was the level of consensus on the proposed (1) exercise program for the overhead youth athletes, (2) education program regarding overuse injuries for coaches of overhead youth athletes, and (3) education program regarding overuse injuries for overhead youth athletes. Consensus was set at 75% agreement in this study. Results: Eighteen experts completed the two Delphi rounds with 100% response rate. Consensus was achieved for the exercise program and both education programs. Twelve youth athletes completed the feasibility assessment questionnaire and found the exercises to be feasible in terms of usefulness, practical use, instructions, duration, and ease of execution. Conclusion: Consensus was reached for the Singapore Youth Shoulder Overuse Injury Prevention Program, and feasibility of execution by end-users was successfully determined.		[Lau, Rachel; Mukherjee, Swarup] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sport Sci Acad Grp, Singapore, Singapore; [Mukherjee, Swarup] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sport Sci Acad Grp, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore; [Mukherjee, Swarup] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sport Sci Acad Grp, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001125722400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Hansen, Clint; Teulier, Caroline; Micallef, Jean-Paul; Millet, Gregoire P.; Girard, Olivier								Lower limb muscle activity during first and second tennis serves: a comparison of three surface electromyography normalisation methods								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3230	3241		10.1080/14763141.2023.2278154			NOV 2 2025	2025	We assessed lower limb muscle activity during the execution of first and second tennis serves, exploring whether the extent of these differences is influenced by the chosen method for normalising surface electromyography (EMG) data. Ten male competitive tennis players first completed three rounds of maximal isometric voluntary contractions (MVC) of knee extensors and plantar flexors for the left (front) and right (back) leg separately, and three squat jumps. Afterward, they executed ten first and ten-second serves. Surface EMG activity of four lower limb muscles (vastus lateralis, rectus femoris, gastrocnemius lateralis, and soleus muscles) on each leg was recorded and normalised in three different ways: to MVC; to peak/maximal activity measured during squat jump; and to the actual serve. For the rectus femoris and soleus muscles of the left leg, and the gastrocnemius lateralis and soleus muscles of the right leg, EMG amplitude differed significantly between normalisation techniques (P <= 0.012). All muscles showed greater activity during the first serve, although this difference was only statistically significant for the right vastus lateralis muscle (P = 0.014). In conclusion, the EMG normalisation method selected may offer similar information when comparing first and second serve, at least for leg muscles studied here.		[Hansen, Clint] Univ Hosp Schleswig Holstein, Dept Neurol, Kiel, Germany; [Teulier, Caroline] Univ Paris Saclay, CIAMS, Orsay, France; [Teulier, Caroline] Univ Orleans, CIAMS, Orleans, France; [Micallef, Jean-Paul] Univ Montpellier, Fac Sport Sci, Montpellier, France; [Millet, Gregoire P.] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, Australia; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, Australia								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001105098500001	32	Article; Article		
J	Reddy, Rajiv P.; Como, Matthew; Charles, Shaquille; Herman, Zachary J.; Nazzal, Ehab M.; Como, Christopher J.; Singh-Varma, Anya; Fails, Alex; Popchak, Adam; Lin, Albert								Criteria-based return to sport testing after open Latarjet reveals residual deficits and can be utilized for sports clearance with excellent outcomes at mean 3.6 year follow-up: A small case series of competitive athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				23	29		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.11.002			JAN 2024	2024	Objective: The purpose of this study was to assess the use of a criteria-based return to sport (CBRTS) test to evaluate readiness for return to play (RTP) in competitive athletes that underwent open Latarjet. Design: Retrospective case series. Methods: Ten competitive athletes (mean age 19.9 years) treated with open Latarjet for recurrent glenohumeral instability underwent CBRTS testing at a mean of 5.3 months postoperatively. Testing consisted of four components: 1. isometric strength, 2. isokinetic strength, 3. endurance, and 4. function. Patients failing 0 or 1 component of the test were cleared to RTP. Patients failing multiple components underwent additional deficitbased rehabilitation. Results: Of the 10 patients that tested, 4 passed their overall CBRTS test and were cleared to RTP. The remaining 6 patients failed the overall CBRTS test. Seven patients (70%) failed at least one section of the strength testing, two patients (20%) failed endurance testing, and two patients (20%) failed functional testing. At final follow-up (mean 3.6 years), 1 patient had recurrent instability (10%) and 9 patients returned to play (90%). Conclusions: CBRTS testing may be clinically useful for return to play clearance decisions after open Latarjet procedure, as it can reveal deficits that may not be identified with time-based clearance alone.		[Reddy, Rajiv P.; Como, Matthew; Charles, Shaquille; Herman, Zachary J.; Nazzal, Ehab M.; Como, Christopher J.; Singh-Varma, Anya; Fails, Alex; Popchak, Adam; Lin, Albert] UPMC Freddie Fu Sports Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Lin, Albert] Univ Pittsburgh, UPMC Freddie Fu Sports Med Ctr, 3200 S Water St, Pittsburgh, PA 15203 USA; [Lin, Albert] Univ Pittsburgh, UPMC Freddie Fu Sports Med Ctr, 3200 S Water St, Pittsburgh, PA 15203 USA								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001124529500001	28	Article; Article		
J	Notari, Andres Roger Arnau; Calabuig, J. M.; Catalan, Cesar; Raffi, L. M. Garcia; Gila, J. M. Pardo; Anaya, Roberto Pons; Perez, E. A. Sanchez								Using neural networks and hierarchical cluster analysis to study goal kicks in football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1723	1737		10.1177/17479541231207184			AUG 2024	2024	The objective of this study is to build a mathematical model that predicts the success of a goal kick in soccer. The model is based on an ensemble of neural networks whose inputs are five features extracted directly from the goal kick and one more that depends on the opposing team. This new variable is calculated using a hierarchical cluster analysis and divides the possible opponents by their defensive strategy. It is shown that it has a relevant importance in the result of a goal kick, which validates the idea of using the presented methodology that takes into account the opponent's tactics when analyzing specific plays of a soccer match.		[Notari, Andres Roger Arnau; Calabuig, J. M.; Catalan, Cesar; Raffi, L. M. Garcia; Anaya, Roberto Pons; Perez, E. A. Sanchez] Univ Politecn Valencia, Inst Univ Matemat Pura & Aplicada, Camino Vera s-n, Valencia 46022, Spain; [Gila, J. M. Pardo; Perez, E. A. Sanchez] Levante UD, Area Big Data, Valencia, Spain; [Calabuig, J. M.] Univ Politecn Valencia, Inst Univ Matemat Pura & Aplicada, Camino Vera s-n, Valencia 46022, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001107704300001	27	Article; Article		
J	Viljoen, Carel; du Toit, Eileen; van Niekerk, Tyla; Mashaba, Sylvester; Ndaba, Zinhle; Verster, Michelle; Bellingan, Andre; Ramagole, Dimakatso; van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Botha, Tanita; van Rensburg, Dina C. Janse								Training for shorter ultra-trail races results in a higher injury rate, a more diverse injury profile, and more severe injuries: 2022 Mac ultra races								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				7	13		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.10.004			JAN 2024	2024	Objectives: Determine and compare the epidemiology, clinical characteristics, and injury severity among race entrants training towards different ultra-trail race distances. Design: Retrospective cross-sectional study. Setting: The six months training period before the 2022 Mac Ultra races (46 km, 80 km, 161 km and 322 km). Participants: Of the 245 race entrants, 162 (66% of Mac ultra-trail runners) consented to analyse their data. Outcome measures: Injury rate (injuries per 1000 h of running), point prevalence (% of currently injured participants), injury severity (time loss), and the frequency (n, %) of injuries reported during pre-race medical screening in the six months before the race. Using inferential statistics, we compared the injury rates between the different race distance categories (46 km, 80 km, 161 km, 322 km). All tests were performed at a 5% level of significance. Results: We reported a statistically significantly higher injury rate among 46 km study participants (3.09 injuries per 1000 h) compared to the injury rates reported among 80 km (0.68 injuries per 1000 h; p = 0.001) and 161 km (1.09 injuries per 1000 h; p = 0.028) participants. The lower limb (89%) was the most injured anatomical region, with only 46 km study participants reporting upper limb, trunk, and head injuries (11%). Muscle/tendon was the most reported injured tissue type (56%), with muscle injuries (31%) the most reported pathology type. Shorter distance ultra-trail runners reported the highest injury severity. Conclusion: Ultra-trail runners training towards shorter ultra-trail distance races presented with a higher injury rate, more diverse injury profile, and a higher injury severity.		[Viljoen, Carel; du Toit, Eileen; van Niekerk, Tyla; Mashaba, Sylvester; Ndaba, Zinhle; Verster, Michelle; Bellingan, Andre] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Pretoria, South Africa; [Viljoen, Carel] Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Bellingan, Andre] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [Ramagole, Dimakatso; van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; van Rensburg, Dina C. Janse] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [Botha, Tanita] Univ Pretoria, Fac Nat & Agr Sci, Dept Stat, Pretoria, South Africa; [Viljoen, Carel] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Prinshof Campus, ZA-0007 Pretoria, South Africa; [Viljoen, Carel] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Prinshof Campus, ZA-0007 Pretoria, South Africa								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001165261100001	25	Article; Article		
J	Wei, Zhen; Hou, Xihe; Qi, Yujie; Wang, Lin								Influence of foot strike patterns and cadences on patellofemoral joint stress in male runners with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				65				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.10.006			JAN 2024	2024	Objectives: This study aimed to determine the effect of foot strike patterns and cadences in male runners with patellofemoral pain (PFP). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Biomechanics lab. Methods: 20 male runners with PFP were instructed to randomly complete six running conditions (three cadence conditions in rearfoot strike pattern (RFS) or forefoot strike (FFS)) under a preferred running speed. Main outcome measures: The primary outcomes were peak knee joint and moment, and secondary outcomes were patellofemoral joint stress. Results: Running with increased cadence has a lower flexion angle (P = 0.027, eta(2) = 0.45), lower extension moment (P = 0.011, eta(2) = 0.29), lower internal rotation moment (P = 0.040, eta(2) = 0.17), lower patellofemoral stress (P = 0.029, eta(2) = 0.52) than preferred cadence. FFS running performed significantly lower flexion angle (P = 0.003, eta(2) = 0.39), lower extension moment (P < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.91), lower adduction moment (P = 0.020, eta(2) = 0.25) lower patellofemoral stress (P < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.81) than RFS running for all cadence. Conclusions; Preliminary findings provide new perspectives for male runners with PFP to unload patellofemoral joint stress in managing PFP through the combination of the FFS pattern and increased cadence.		[Wei, Zhen; Hou, Xihe; Wang, Lin] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Qi, Yujie] Shanghai Nanxiang Community Hlth Serv Ctr, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Hou, Xihe] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lin] Shanghai Univ Sport, Hengren Rd 188, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Qi, Yujie] Shanghai Nanxiang Community Hlth Serv Ctr, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Lin] Shanghai Univ Sport, Hengren Rd 188, Shanghai, Peoples R China								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001166639800001	44	Article; Article		
J	Kroot, Adam S.; Blom, Lindsey C.; Patel, Khushbu; Davis, Chelsea; Moore, Matt A.; Mulvihill, Thalia M.								Basketball experience: Exploring Nigerian basketball coaches' perspectives of grassroots sport-for-development programming as a tool to enhance well-being								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			551	561		10.1177/17479541231213552			APR 2024	2024	Considering the disparity between mental health services and resources available in Nigeria, researchers have highlighted the need for organizations, policymakers, and health service providers to revamp their approaches. Due to its unifying nature and cultural importance in the youth population, grassroots sport programming has been shown to be an effective mechanism in promoting education and life skills. In Lagos, Nigeria, the Basketball Experience program was designed to promote physical well-being, healthy living, mental health, and life skills in Nigerian youth utilizing principles from the Resilience and Youth Development Module. Researchers interviewed seven female and three male coaches using a phenomenological approach to investigate their perspectives of the program's impact on themselves and the youth they coach. Results suggest that implementing mental health education and resilience development, specifically through positive mentorship and strategies such as breathing and mindfulness exercises, into a sport for development program can assist with increased knowledge and reduced mental health stigma. Coaches strongly endorsed increased use of programs like Basketball Experience to promote positive development and combat the disparity in mental health literacy and policy, and they suggested that such programs have the power to help restructure the longstanding cycle of negative stressors inherent to life in Nigeria. Based on these perspectives, the authors discuss how grassroots sport programming can be an effective tool in the development of both coaches and youth. Moreover, the authors advocate for the Resilience and Youth Development Module as an impactful theoretical framework for facilitating resilience and life skills in coaches and youth.		[Kroot, Adam S.; Blom, Lindsey C.; Patel, Khushbu; Davis, Chelsea] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN USA; [Moore, Matt A.] Ball State Univ, Dept Social Work, Muncie, IN USA; [Mulvihill, Thalia M.] Ball State Univ, Dept Educ Leadership, Muncie, IN USA; [Kroot, Adam S.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Hlth & Phys Act Bldg, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Kroot, Adam S.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Hlth & Phys Act Bldg, Muncie, IN 47306 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001102878200001	37	Article; Article		
J	Yu, Jinglun; Liao, Zhangwen; Ma, Xinying; Qi, Shuo; Liang, Zhiqiang; Wei, Zhen; Zhang, Shengnian								Optimisation of stable flight posture of ski jumping based on computational fluid dynamics simulation technology								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1444	1463		10.1080/14763141.2023.2276329			MAY 4 2025	2025	The stable flight posture that affects sports performance during flight is usually formed by the multiple angles of the athlete-ski posture. At present, research on the flight phase is mainly based on the single-factor impact analysis based on computational fluid dynamics simulation technology, but studies on the multi-factor coupling relationship of two or more factors is less. This study aims to determine the best optimal-level combination based on the simulation model of this work through comprehensive evaluation from the optimisation perspective of multi-factor coupling. Here, a refined model of the athlete-ski system with the characteristics of ski jumping was established. Reynolds time-averaged method was used for the simulation. A three-factor and five-level simulation test was conducted on the relative inclination between skis, the angle between the body and the ski and the ski V-angle through orthogonal experiment design. Our results show that the optimal-level combination of the relative inclination between skis of 120 degrees, the angle between the body and the ski of 20 degrees, and the ski V-angle of 30 degrees is relatively best in terms of aerodynamic characteristics. Simulation results were similar to the results of the winter field data from video analysis, and the results were effective.		[Yu, Jinglun; Liang, Zhiqiang; Zhang, Shengnian] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Yu, Jinglun; Qi, Shuo; Liang, Zhiqiang; Wei, Zhen; Zhang, Shengnian] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liao, Zhangwen] Huaqiao Univ, Inst Mfg Engn, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Ma, Xinying] Silicon Lake Coll, Fdn Courses Res Ctr, Kunshan, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Shengnian] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Shengnian] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001100193300001	36	Article; Article		
J	Ascondo, Josu; Iturricastillo, Aitor; Granados, Cristina; Fernandez-Lasa, Uxue; Romaratezabala, Estibaliz; Yanci, Javier								Neuromuscular Fatigue after Small-Sided Games in Wheelchair Basketball Players with and without Spinal Cord Injury								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			519	528		10.1080/02701367.2023.2265453			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim was to analyze the differences between wheelchair basketball players with Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) and without Spinal Cord injury (Non-SCI) in psycho-physiological response and neuromuscular fatigue in a series of small-sided games (SSG). Methods: Thirteen high-level wheelchair basketball male players (age 28.8 +/- 9.2 years, body mass 75.9 +/- 11.3 kg) participated in four versus four SSG once a week for five consecutive weeks. Absolute and relative heart rate (HR) during SSG and muscular and respiratory perceived exertion (RPEmus and RPEres), tympanic temperature, and acceleration capacity were recorded at the end of each SSG. Results: No significant differences were observed between SCI and non-SCI players in relative HR variables in SSG series. However, the SCI group had a lower absolute HR (mean HR and peak HR) (p < .05 or p < .01, ES = 0.73-1.39) and higher perceived muscular load (RPEmusTL) (p < .01, ES = 0.75-0.82) during SSG. Regarding the evolution of the physiological response, no differences were observed between the four bouts in the SCI group. However, the Non-SCI group showed an increase in the absolute and relative variables of HR and RPEres and RPEmus (p < .05 or p < .01, ES = 0.45-1.06). On the contrary, only the SCI group showed a loss of acceleration capacity between the four series (p < .05, ES = 0.28-0.35). Conclusion: The results of this study show that there are differences between SCI and non-SCI wheelchair basketball players in their physiological response and acceleration capacity during SSG tasks.		[Ascondo, Josu; Iturricastillo, Aitor; Granados, Cristina; Fernandez-Lasa, Uxue; Romaratezabala, Estibaliz; Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Leioa, Spain; [Iturricastillo, Aitor] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Iturricastillo, Aitor] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Vitoria 01007, Spain								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001104235000001	49	Article; Article		
J	McGrath, Joseph W.; Neville, Jonathon; Stewart, Tom; Lamb, Matt; Alway, Peter; King, Mark; Cronin, John								Can an inertial measurement unit, combined with machine learning, accurately measure ground reaction forces in cricket fast bowling?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3205	3217		10.1080/14763141.2023.2275251			NOV 2 2025	2025	This study examined whether an inertial measurement unit (IMU) could measure ground reaction force (GRF) during a cricket fast bowling delivery. Eighteen male fast bowlers had IMUs attached to their upper back and bowling wrist. Each participant bowled 36 deliveries, split into three different intensity zones: low = 70% of maximum perceived bowling effort, medium = 85%, and high = 100%. A force plate was embedded into the bowling crease to measure the ground truth GRF. Three machine learning models were used to estimate GRF from the IMU data. The best results from all models showed a mean absolute percentage error of 22.1% body weights (BW) for vertical and horizontal peak force, 24.1% for vertical impulse, 32.6% and 33.6% for vertical and horizontal loading rates, respectively. The linear support vector machine model had the most consistent results. Although results were similar to other papers that have estimated GRF, the error would likely prevent its use in individual monitoring. However, due to the large differences in raw GRFs between participants, researchers may be able to help identify links among GRF, injury, and performance by categorising values into levels (i.e., low and high).		[McGrath, Joseph W.; Neville, Jonathon; Stewart, Tom; Cronin, John] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [McGrath, Joseph W.] Manukau Inst Technol Sch Sport, Auckland, New Zealand; [McGrath, Joseph W.] AUT Univ, Sch Hlth Care Practice, Paramed & Emergency Management, Auckland, New Zealand; [Stewart, Tom] AUT Univ, Human Potential Ctr, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lamb, Matt; Alway, Peter; King, Mark] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Alway, Peter] England & Wales Cricket Board, Loughborough, Leics, England; [McGrath, Joseph W.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [McGrath, Joseph W.] Manukau Inst Technol Sch Sport, Auckland, New Zealand; [McGrath, Joseph W.] AUT Univ, Sch Hlth Care Practice, Paramed & Emergency Management, Auckland, New Zealand								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001100015700001	34	Article; Article		
J	Lamas, Leonardo; Heiner, Matthew; Ferreira, Mario; Moura, Arthur; Rangel, Wellington; Fellingham, Gilbert; Lage, Victor								No-gi Brazilian jiu-jitsu: A Markovian analysis of elite-level combat dynamics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1767	1775		10.1177/17479541231210979			AUG 2024	2024	No-gi Brazilian jiu-jitsu is a grappling-based combat sport performed without the jiu-jitsu uniform. It's fast-growing popularity has been influenced by the contributions to competitors' performance in mixed martial arts tournaments. This study aimed to analyze the frequency of actions, the transitions between them, and their reward-risk balance-the probability of submitting minus the probability of being submitted-among top-level competitors. Data encompassed all 93 matches (90 competitors) of the World Submission Fighting Championship-2019. Reliability was assessed by two experts (sports scientists, more than 10 years as no-gi Brazilian jiu-jitsu competitors). Data analyses used Bayesian methods for inference. Posterior distributions of the mean frequencies of actions indicate that the main actions (e.g. takedown, sweep, and back-take) tended to occur less than once per competitor in each match, except by the submission attempt (point estimate of 1.03 per match). The highest estimates for the transition probabilities between match actions were within-competitor-a guard pass action to another guard pass action (0.30); between-competitors-a takedown attempt to a submission attempt (0.15). Most of the actions presented positive reward-risk balance, particularly for the back-take, which showed the highest probability of direct transition to submission (0.45). The dynamic analysis of no-gi Brazilian jiu-jitsu matches evidenced some preferential actions' transitions associated with winning. Findings should enhance the accuracy of performance prediction and provide evidence-based recommendations for coaches.		[Lamas, Leonardo; Ferreira, Mario; Moura, Arthur; Rangel, Wellington; Lage, Victor] Univ Brasilia, Fac Phys Educ, LabEsporte, Campus Darcy Ribeiro, BR-70910900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Heiner, Matthew; Fellingham, Gilbert] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Stat, Provo, UT USA; [Lamas, Leonardo] Univ Brasilia, Fac Phys Educ, LabEsporte, Campus Darcy Ribeiro, BR-70910900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001100639400001	25	Article; Article		
J	Gaiesky, Sean K. T.; Fridman, Lauren; Michie, Tom V.; Blazey, Paul; Tran, Nicholas; Schneeberg, Amy; Napier, Christopher								The one-week and three-month reliability of acceleration outcomes from an insole-embedded inertial measurement unit during treadmill running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1429	1443		10.1080/14763141.2023.2275258			MAY 4 2025	2025	Inertial measurement units (IMUs) represent an exciting opportunity for researchers to broaden our understanding of running-related injuries, and for clinicians to expand their application of running gait analysis. The primary aim of our study was to investigate the 1-week (short-term) and 3-month (long-term) reliability of peak resultant, vertical, and anteroposterior accelerations derived from insole-embedded IMUs. The secondary aim was to assess the reliability of peak acceleration variability and left-right limb symmetry in all directions over the short and long term. A sample of healthy adult rearfoot runners (n = 23; age 41.7 +/- 11.2 years) ran at a variety of speeds (2.5 m/s, 3.0 m/s, and 3.5 m/s) on a treadmill in standardised footwear with insole-embedded IMUs in each shoe. Peak accelerations exhibited good to excellent short-term reliability and moderate to excellent long-term reliability in all directions. Peak acceleration variability showed poor to good short- and long-term reliability, whereas the symmetry of peak accelerations demonstrated moderate to excellent and moderate to good short- and long-term reliability, respectively. Our results demonstrate how insole-embedded IMUs represent a viable option for clinicians to measure peak accelerations within the clinic.		[Gaiesky, Sean K. T.; Michie, Tom V.; Napier, Christopher] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Fridman, Lauren; Tran, Nicholas] Plantiga Technol Inc, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Michie, Tom V.; Blazey, Paul; Napier, Christopher] Vancouver Coastal Hlth Res Inst, Ctr Aging SMART, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Blazey, Paul] Univ British Columbia, Dept Phys Therapy, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Napier, Christopher] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Napier, Christopher] Vancouver Coastal Hlth Res Inst, Ctr Aging SMART, Vancouver, BC, Canada								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001099977800001	41	Article; Article		
J	Slovak, Lukas; Sarvestan, Javad; Alaei, Fatemeh; Iwatsuki, Takehiro; Zahradnik, David								Upper limb biomechanical differences in volleyball spikes among young female players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1738	1746		10.1177/17479541231211679			AUG 2024	2024	The performance assessment of relevant biomechanical factors is essential for appropriate age-related training progression in volleyball spike (VS). This study aimed to investigate the differences in upper limbs' (a) range of motion (ROM), (b) angular velocities, and (c) muscular activity during VS among under 16- (U-16), under 18- (U-18), and under 20- (U-20) year-old female volleyball players. The kinematic variables of the spike performances were recorded using six optoelectronic cameras (Vicon Motion system, UK). Additionally, the wireless Trigno system (Delsys, USA) was used to record the electromyographic signals. The one-way ANOVA (1d SPM analysis) exhibited a significantly greater wrist internal rotation (p < .001), wrist adduction velocity (p < .001), and palmaris longus activity (p < .001) in the acceleration phase in U-20, compared to the U-16 group. Additionally, the U-20 and the U-18 players portrayed a significantly greater shoulder external rotation (p < .001) and internal angular velocity (p = .035) relative to the U-16 group. A significantly greater pectoralis major (p < .001), biceps brachii (p < .001), and anterior deltoid (p < .001) activity was observed in the U-20 group, compared to younger groups. This study suggests that older players employ more upper limb muscular activities during spike with the presence of blocks, which enables them to hit the ball with greater velocities and direct the ball in their desired direction through increased wrist ROMs.		[Slovak, Lukas; Sarvestan, Javad; Zahradnik, David] Univ Ostrava, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Varenska 40A, Ostrava 70103, Czech Republic; [Sarvestan, Javad] Newcastle Univ, Translat & Clin Res Inst, Fac Med Sci, Newcastle Upon Tyne, England; [Alaei, Fatemeh] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Iwatsuki, Takehiro] Univ Hawaii Hilo, Dept Kinesiol, Hilo, HI USA; [Slovak, Lukas] Univ Ostrava, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Varenska 40A, Ostrava 70103, Czech Republic								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001101482500001	43	Article; Article		
J	Aarons, Mitchell F.; Vickery, Will; Bruce, Lyndell; Young, Chris M.; Dwyer, Dan B.								Barriers to coach decision-making during Australian football matches and how it can be supported by artificial intelligence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			41	52		10.1177/17479541231206682			FEB 2024	2024	Elite sport coaches are often expected to make high-stakes decisions in time-constrained environments, such as during matches. The quality or efficiency of these decisions is bound by context-specific constraints on their decision-making. Artificial intelligence-based tools could alleviate some of these constraints. In Australian football, it is not yet known what these context-specific constraints are, nor is there any understanding of the thoughts and perception of elite Australian football coaches towards the use of artificial intelligence to support their decision-making. This study is the first to explore these issues in the context of elite Australian football and aims to inform the effective design and integration of tools to support the in-match decision-making of coaches in a manner that is welcomed by coaches. Using semi-structured interviews with elite Australian football coaches (n = 6) and reflexive thematic analysis, two domains were explored: 'barriers to decision-making' and 'thoughts and perceptions of a decision support system (DSS)'. Coaches discussed seven 'cognitive' and 'environmental' barriers, some of which may be addressed using artificial intelligence. Meanwhile, four themes were generated for the second domain, namely 'willingness to adopt', 'expectation', 'concern and criticism', and 'DSS role'. The findings enable practitioners to design tools that are intended to address some of these barriers, while also providing insights into important considerations for the implementation and design of these tools that may increase the likelihood of achieving the endorsement of elite coaches and their support staff.		[Aarons, Mitchell F.; Bruce, Lyndell; Young, Chris M.; Dwyer, Dan B.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Vickery, Will] Australian Sports Commiss, Coaching & Officiating Sport & Community Capabil, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Aarons, Mitchell F.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, 1 Gheringhap St, Geelong, Vic 3220, Australia; [Aarons, Mitchell F.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, 1 Gheringhap St, Geelong, Vic 3220, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001094949100001	35	Article; Article		
J	Mino, Soushi; Kosaka, Takahiro; Kubo, Keitaro								Effects of muscular endurance and tendon extensibility on endurance of joint stiffness								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1414	1428		10.1080/14763141.2023.2275254			MAY 4 2025	2025	In some sporting events (e.g., long-distance running), the ability to maintain joint stiffness is considered an essential physical ability. However, the determinants of joint stiffness endurance remain unclear. This study aimed to examine the effects of muscular endurance and tendon extensibility on joint stiffness endurance. Thirteen males performed the fatigue task (5 sets of 50 hopping). Ankle joint stiffness during drop jump was measured before and after fatigue task. The maximum number of repetitions at 30% of one repetition maximum for plantar flexion was measured as muscular endurance. Maximal elongation of the Achilles tendon was measured during ramp (with a low strain rate of tendon) and ballistic (with a high strain rate of tendon) contractions as tendon extensibility. Joint stiffness significantly decreased by 7.5% after the fatigue task (p = 0.033). The maximum number of repetitions at 30% of 1RM (79.6 +/- 48.7 repetitions) was not significantly correlated with the relative change in joint stiffness (r = 0.283, p = 0.348). The maximal elongation of the Achilles tendon measured during ramp and ballistic contractions were not significantly associated with the relative change in joint stiffness (r = 0.326, p = 0.277 for ramp contraction; r = 0.438, p = 0.135 for ballistic contraction). These results suggest that muscular endurance and tendon extensibility were unrelated to joint stiffness endurance.		[Mino, Soushi; Kosaka, Takahiro; Kubo, Keitaro] Univ Tokyo, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Kubo, Keitaro] Univ Tokyo, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001095026700001	42	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Wenche								Customer engagement on social media: an examination of NFL teams' Instagram posts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	5			1021	1038		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2023-0051			NOV 2 2023	2023	PurposeSocial media enables sport organizations to connect with customers in a dynamic, ubiquitous, and timely manner. Although these organizations routinely use social media, the best practices to improve customer engagement remain elusive. This paper aims to examine National Football League (NFL) teams' Instagram posts to understand how sport teams can utilize social media to drive customer engagement.Design/methodology/approachGuided by uses and gratification theory, the author employs a machine learning algorithm to assess the content of NFL teams' posts from the 2013-2014 season to the 2017-2018 season. The author performs regression analyses to investigate how post topic, together with confounding factors, boost customer engagement.FindingsResults highlight the importance of informational content in eliciting engagement and reveal distinctions in topics deemed "social content" in the literature. The author further identifies variations in how post topics engage sport fans and general customers.Originality/valueResults provide implications for sport organizations to craft social media content for customer engagement.		[Wang, Wenche] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Wang, Wenche] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001093454400009	52	Article; Article		
J	Winkelmann, David; Oetting, Marius; Deutscher, Christian; Makarewicz, Tomasz								Are Betting Markets Inefficient? Evidence From Simulations and Real Data								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	1			54	97		10.1177/15270025231204997			JAN 2024	2024	Previous literature leaves the impression that betting market inefficiencies are widespread. However, most studies rely upon limited data and ignore biases' persistence. Our simulation-based analyses show (1) the impact of low sample sizes on the chance to detect markets that only appear to be efficient and (2) the frequency of observing inefficient periods within fully efficient markets. Afterwards, we (3) empirically analyze real-world football betting markets for 14 consecutive seasons. While inefficiencies occur in singular seasons, they are not persistent or systematic across leagues. Moreover, our simulation-based analyses suggest that statistically significant effects in single seasons are likely to be observed even under full market efficiency.		[Winkelmann, David; Oetting, Marius; Makarewicz, Tomasz] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Business Adm & Econ, Univ Str 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany; [Deutscher, Christian] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Bielefeld, Germany; [Winkelmann, David] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Business Adm & Econ, Univ Str 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany								10							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001091911900001	45	Article; Article		
J	Losciale, Justin M.; Truong, Linda K.; Zhang, Kexin; Scarr, Thomas; Xie, Hui; Li, Linda C.; Mitchell, Cameron; Hunt, Michael A.; Whittaker, Jackie L.								The association between knee muscle performance and clinical outcomes of knee function 1-4 years after a sport-related knee joint injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				147	155		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.10.003			NOV 2023	2023	Objective: Estimate the association between index leg knee muscle strength and rate of torque development (RTD), and self-reported and performance-based (i.e., hop) knee function in persons 1-4 years after a sportrelated knee joint injury.Methods: Data were collected at baseline of a clinical trial. Assessments included the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score Sport & Recreation subscale (KOOSsport), 6-m timed hop (TH), and peak concentric isokinetic knee extensor and flexor torque and isometric RTD. Associations between peak torque and RTD with KOOSsport and TH were assessed using multivariable regression with nonlinear transformations.Results: 53 participants (64.2% female) were included. Knee extensor peak torque was nonlinearly related to TH time, with a strong inverse relationship at lower torque values that changed as torque increased. Results were inconsistent for flexor peak torque, extensor RTD and flexor RTD, with inconsistencies in relationship shape and estimates of association between primary and sensitivity analyses. There was no association between strength/ RTD and KOOSsport.Conclusion: There was a nonlinear relationship between knee extensor strength and hop function, with lower strength being associated with a stronger relationship. As strength values increased, the relationship attenuated. Knee extensor and flexor strength, or RTD, were not associated with self-reported function.		[Losciale, Justin M.; Truong, Linda K.; Li, Linda C.; Hunt, Michael A.; Whittaker, Jackie L.] Univ British Columbia, Fac Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Losciale, Justin M.; Truong, Linda K.; Xie, Hui; Li, Linda C.; Whittaker, Jackie L.] Arthrit Res Canada, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Zhang, Kexin] British Columbia Ctr Dis Control, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Mitchell, Cameron] Univ British Columbia, Fac Educ, Dept Kinesiol, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Scarr, Thomas] Allan McGavin Sports Med Clin, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Xie, Hui] Simon Fraser Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Whittaker, Jackie L.] 2177 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z3, Canada; [Whittaker, Jackie L.] 2177 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z3, Canada								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001109006800001	77	Article; Article		
J	Mischler, Sarah; Pichot, Lilian								The impact of brand attribution for an innovative sports product introduced on the fitness market in France								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	1			109	124		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2023-0074			JAN 19 2024	2024	PurposeThe aim of this study is to examine the effect of brand attribution on consumer behaviour. The authorsare interested in finding out if consumers are more likely to purchase a new sports product when it is attributed to a brand. The authors are interested in finding out if the brand positively influences the consumer's appreciation of the product in the case of the launch of a new product.Design/methodology/approachThe authors completed a quantitative survey with 320 people who are familiar with the toning concept, aged between 20 and 45 years old. The questionnaire was conducted face to face in six large cities in France.FindingsMain results show that belief in the effectiveness of the product is positively correlated with purchase intention. However, the attribution of the product to the brand does not guarantee belief in the effectiveness of the product nor does it guarantee purchase intention. Brand credibility has a positive impact on belief in the effectiveness of the product. Furthermore, exposure to advertising allows the product to be attributed to the brand. Yet, it does not have an impact on belief in the product's effectiveness or purchase intention.Originality/valueWhereas studying consumer behaviour is not new, analysing consumer perceptions of innovative products and how these perceptions relate to the product brand can provide interesting implications both for consumer behaviour research and from a practical perspective for brands. Indeed, this paper shows the importance of exposure to advertising for a product to be attributed to a brand but this is not enough to induce its purchase. It is the credibility of the brand in the product category as well as the belief in the effectiveness of the product that can lead consumers to buy it.		[Mischler, Sarah; Pichot, Lilian] Univ Strasbourg, Fac Sport Sci, Sport & Social Sci Lab, Strasbourg, France; [Mischler, Sarah] Univ Strasbourg, Fac Sport Sci, Sport & Social Sci Lab, Strasbourg, France								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001095791200001	36	Article; Article		
J	Becerra, Mario; Balliauw, Matteo; Goos, Peter; De Borger, Bruno; Huyghe, Benjamin; Truyts, Thomas								Why do fans go to football games? A discrete choice analysis of ticket buyers' preferences								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	1			88	108		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2023-0093			JAN 19 2024	2024	PurposeTicket sales are an essential source of income for football clubs and federations. Analyzing the determinants of fans' willingness-to-pay for tickets is therefore an important exercise. By knowing the match- and fan-related characteristics that influence how much a fan wants to pay for a ticket, as well as to what extent, football clubs and federations can modify their ticket offering and targeting in order to optimize this revenue stream.Design/methodology/approachUsing a detailed discrete choice experiment, based on McFadden's random utility theory, this paper formulates a Bayesian hierarchical multinomial logit model. Such models are very common in the discrete choice modeling literature. The analysis identifies to what extent match and personal attributes influence fans' willingness-to-pay for games of the Belgian men's and women's football national teams.FindingsThe results show that the strength of the opponent, the type of competition, the location of the seats in the stadium, the day and kick-off time of the match and the ticket price exert an influence on the choice of the respondent. Fans are attracted most by competitive games against strong opponents. They prefer to sit along the sideline, and they have clear preferences for specific kick-off days and times. The authors also find substantial variation between socio-demographic groups, defined in terms of factors such as age, gender and family composition.Practical implicationsThe authors use the results to estimate the willingness-to-pay for match tickets for different socio-demographic groups. Their findings are useful for football clubs and federations interested in optimizing the prices of their match tickets.Originality/valueTo the best of the authors' knowledge, no stated preference methods, such as discrete choice analysis, have been used to analyze the willingness-to-pay of sports fans. The advantage of discrete choice analysis is that options and variations in tickets that are not yet available in practice can be studied, allowing football organizations to increase revenues from new ticketing instruments.		[Becerra, Mario; Goos, Peter] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Biosci Engn, Dept Biosyst, Leuven, Belgium; [Balliauw, Matteo; Huyghe, Benjamin; Truyts, Thomas] Univ Antwerp, Fac Business & Econ, Dept Transport & Reg Econ, Antwerp, Belgium; [Balliauw, Matteo] RBFA Knowledge Ctr, Brussels, Belgium; [Goos, Peter] Univ Antwerp, Fac Business & Econ, Dept Engn Management, Antwerp, Belgium; [De Borger, Bruno; Huyghe, Benjamin; Truyts, Thomas] Univ Antwerp, Fac Business & Econ, Dept Econ, Antwerp, Belgium; [Balliauw, Matteo] Univ Antwerp, Fac Business & Econ, Dept Transport & Reg Econ, Antwerp, Belgium; [Balliauw, Matteo] RBFA Knowledge Ctr, Brussels, Belgium								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001090701200001	56	Article; Article		
J	Taylor, Jonathan M.; Quigley, Charlie; Madden, Jonathan; Wright, Matthew D.								Multi-sports training in English soccer academies: A survey exploring practices, practitioner perspectives, and barriers to use								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1671	1679		10.1177/17479541231210746			AUG 2024	2024	Despite interest in multi-sports training as a strategy to enhance long-term player development in soccer, current practice within English professional soccer academies is not well understood. This study explored the use of multi-sports training by English professional soccer academies (i.e., if multi-sports training was used, how often, session duration, activity type and age-group variations), and practitioners' perspectives with respect to player development (i.e., perceived physical/sociological benefits of; and barriers to use) using an online survey. One practitioner per club, per age category (i.e., Foundation (<9 to <12 years), Youth (<13 to <16 years) and Professional (<18 to <23 years)) was permitted to respond. Sixty practitioners responded, of which, 48% worked with U18-U23 players; 42% with U13-14 and U15-16 players, respectively; 20% with U9-10 players and 33% with U11-12 players. Half (n = 30) of the respondents used multi-sports training for a total of 1 (IQR 1-2) session and 30 (13 to 60) minutes per week. Respondents 'agreed' or 'strongly agreed' that multi-sports training improved physical outcomes, reduced injury risk, helped to avoid early professionalism, and improved communication and problem-solving. Several barriers to inclusion were identified, such as limited training time, lack of equipment and attrition from other staff and players. In summary, although multi-sports training was used by only similar to 50% of practitioners, indicating that many clubs specialise in deliberate soccer practice, most practitioners perceived multi-sports training to be beneficial to player development.		[Taylor, Jonathan M.; Wright, Matthew D.] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Middlesbrough, England; [Quigley, Charlie] Southampton Football Club, Southampton, England; [Madden, Jonathan] Hull City Tigers Football Club, Kingston Upon Hull, England; [Taylor, Jonathan M.] Teesside Univ, Middlesbrough TS1 3BA, England; [Taylor, Jonathan M.] Teesside Univ, Middlesbrough TS1 3BA, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001093559900001	54	Article; Article		
J	Galdino, Matheus; Wicker, Pamela								A culture of constraints: How head coach turnovers affect the backroom staff and player development in professional football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			515	524		10.1177/17479541231207704			APR 2024	2024	In professional football, head coach turnovers are arbitrarily perceived as a shortcut solution to convert losing streaks into winning results within time-limited competitive seasons. Despite a speculative mentality guiding turnover decisions, a new coach is invariably appointed with the expectation of improving performance. As often overlooked, however, coaching replacements inevitably create unintended club-wide spillover effects. This study addresses two related club-wide research questions: (1) How do head coach turnovers affect player development at the team level?; and, (2) What are the spillover effects for backroom staff? Undertaken in Brazil, where turnover rates exceed those in Europe, 30 backroom staff practitioners (i.e., assistant coaches, goalkeeping coaches, fitness coaches, physical therapists, physiologists, and a medical doctor) completed semistructured interviews focused on their experiences. A reflexive thematic analysis revealed an overarching culture of constraints driven by conflicting behaviors and working practices. Three themes were highlighted at the team level: pragmatic playing style, methodological mismatch, and delaying team cohesion. At the individual level, four themes were identified: internal disruption, repetitive adaptations, job insecurity, as well as mental and emotional unrest. The findings indicate how within-season coaching turnovers represent a hazard that unintentionally constrains the mutual collaboration among the stakeholders directly involved with player development.		[Galdino, Matheus; Wicker, Pamela] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Bielefeld, Germany; [Galdino, Matheus] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Univstr 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany; [Galdino, Matheus] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Univstr 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001090208200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio; Martinent, Guillaume; Nicolas, Michel								Group cohesion profiles in athletes: Relationships with two waves of coping and affects in competition								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1490	1501		10.1177/17479541231210190			AUG 2024	2024	The study aimed to identify group cohesion profiles in athletes and examine whether athletes from distinct profiles significantly differed in affects and coping in competition. A total of 296 competitive athletes participated in the study and completed a series of self-report questionnaires in a temporal design with different measurement points. The athletes completed the questionnaires 2 days before competition, 2 h prior to competition and 2 h after competition. Results from latent profile analysis (LPA) model revealed that three profiles were the most suitable solution: (a) Low group cohesion profile, (b) a mixed group cohesion profile and (c) a high cohesion profile. In particular, (c) athletes from the high group cohesion profile revealed lower scores in intensity of negative affects after the competition, lower precompetitive relaxation, lower precompetitive mental distancing, lower precompetitive mental distraction, lower intracompetitive relaxation, lower intracompetitive logical analysis, lower intracompetitive mental distancing, lower intracompetitive mental distraction and lower intracompetitive disengagement. As a whole, the (b) mixed group cohesion profile revealed the worst combination of the three profiles in terms of coping strategies, which may be a profile at risk of not performing in competition. Thus, it is necessary to understand group cohesion as a multivariate experience for a better comprehension of this phenomenon.		[Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Univ Int La Rioja UNIR, Fac Educ, TECNODEF Res Grp, Logrono, La Rioja, Spain; [Martinent, Guillaume] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lab Vulnerabil & Innovat Sport EA 7428, Interdisciplinary Res Confederat Sport FED 4272, Lyon, France; [Nicolas, Michel] Univ Bourgogne Franche Comte, Sport Sci Dept, Lab Psy DREPI EA 7458, Dijon, France; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Calle Garcia Martin 21, Madrid 28224, Spain; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Univ Int La Rioja UNIR, Fac Educ, TECNODEF Res Grp, Logrono, La Rioja, Spain; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Calle Garcia Martin 21, Madrid 28224, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001090801500001	47	Article; Article		
J	Barraclough, Sam; Piggott, David; Till, Kevin; Kerr, Adam; Emmonds, Stacey								Creating a shared mental model of performance: Coaches' perspectives of key position-specific soccer actions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			586	603		10.1177/17479541231205473			APR 2024	2024	Important decisions surrounding talent identification (TID), talent development (TD) and (de)selection within elite youth soccer are often grounded in the subjective opinions of coaches. These opinions often stem from coaches' observations of player performance, which have been shown to be susceptible to several biases. Additionally, previous research has failed to establish specific criteria on which such opinions are based, aside from a coach's own intuition and practical experience. This study aimed to create a communal language and aligned criteria for the specific purpose of evaluating players' performances. Semi-structured interviews were undertaken with nine experienced coaches (13.6 +/- 10.8 years) from a professional UK soccer academy to identify coaches' perceptions of key position-specific soccer actions, performed during differing moments of the game, for evaluating individual match performance. Thematic analysis of the interview data permitted the extraction of several themes , posited to encompass the position-specific soccer actions highlighted by the coaches. Themes for outfield positions included attacking skills; defending skills; movements to receive, create or exploit space; receiving and releasing skills; support play; end product; press, recover to the ball, man or space; and tactical understanding. Goalkeeper themes included tactical understanding, positioning relative to the ball, danger, teammates and opponents, play forward, support play, choice of action and range of distribution. This study highlights an applied approach of creating a shared mental model for appraising player performances, which can facilitate discussion and knowledge exchange between coaches and practitioners, with the intention of improving decision-making around TID, TD and (de)selection decisions.		[Barraclough, Sam; Piggott, David; Till, Kevin; Emmonds, Stacey] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Barraclough, Sam; Kerr, Adam] Leeds United FC, Leeds, England; [Till, Kevin] Leeds Rhinos RLFC, Leeds, England; [Barraclough, Sam] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds LS6 3QS, W Yorkshire, England; [Barraclough, Sam] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds LS6 3QS, W Yorkshire, England								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001090800800001	46	Article; Article		
J	Rigg, Joshua D.; Perera, Nirmala Kanthi Panagodage; Toohey, Liam A.; Cooke, Jennifer; Hughes, David								Anterior cruciate ligament injury occurrence, return to sport and subsequent injury in the Australian High Performance Sports System: A 5-year retrospective analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				140	146		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.10.001			NOV 2023	2023	Objectives: To report anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury occurrence, return to sport (RTS) timeframes and ACL subsequent injuries recorded in the Australian High Performance Sports System according to athlete sex. Methods: ACL injury data of injured athletes were prospectively collected by the treating sports and exercise physicians and physiotherapists within the Australian High Performance Sports System between January 1, 2015 and May 31, 2020. RTS time frames for ACL injuries and the proportion of subsequent ACL injuries were calculated. The RTS time was compared between sexes, age groups and ACL injury categories using the Mann-Whitney U test and the Kruskal-Wallis test. Results: A total of 132 ACL injuries were reported in 108 athletes (77 female, 31 male). ACL injuries accounted for 6.4% of all reported knee injuries, with almost half (48.5%) of the ACL injuries reported to occur during training. Median RTS time was 369 days (IQR = 273-487), with RTS times reducing with increasing age (X2 (Zbrojkiewicz et al., 2018) =11.781, p = 0.008). The presence of concurrent knee pathology did not significantly affect the RTS timeframes. ACL injuries were most frequently reported in netball, winter sports, basketball, field hockey and gymnastics. One quarter of the ACL reported (n = 34, 25.8%) were subsequent to a prior ACL injury, with the majority of these injuries occurring to the ipsilateral knee (n = 26) as opposed to contralateral knee (n = 6). Conclusions: Despite ACL injuries accounting for a small proportion of all knee injuries reported in the Australian High Performance Sports System, more than a quarter are subsequent to a previous ACL injury. Shorter RTS times were observed in older athletes; however, considerable periods of time-loss occur as a consequence of ACL in-juries. Effective primary prevention, rehabilitation processes, and ongoing tertiary prevention strategies are warranted in this population.		[Rigg, Joshua D.; Perera, Nirmala Kanthi Panagodage; Cooke, Jennifer; Hughes, David] Australian Inst Sport Clin Serv, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Perera, Nirmala Kanthi Panagodage; Toohey, Liam A.; Hughes, David] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise UCRISE, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Perera, Nirmala Kanthi Panagodage] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci HMV, Sport Injury ProgrammE SWIPE, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping, Sweden; [Toohey, Liam A.] Australian Inst Sport Athlete Performance Hlth, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Rigg, Joshua D.] Australian Inst Sport, Phys Therapies, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Rigg, Joshua D.] Australian Inst Sport, Phys Therapies, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001102939400001	61	Article; Article		
J	Saadat, Shekoofe; Bricarell, Katherine M.; Gillette, Jason C.								Dual tasking increases kinematic and kinetic risk factors of ACL injury								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1400	1413		10.1080/14763141.2023.2271888			MAY 4 2025	2025	ACL injuries are common among athletes playing team sports. The impact of divided attention during team sports on landing mechanics is unclear. Twenty-one healthy females jumped at a 60 degrees angle to their right and performed a second jump to their right or left at a 60 degrees angle. The direction of the second jump was shown before movement (baseline) or mid-flight of the first jump (dual task). The signal for the dual-task conditions showed five arrows and the middle one indicated the jump direction (Flanker paradigm). The other arrows pointed in the same (congruent) or the opposite (incongruent) direction as the middle arrow. Results indicated larger initial and peak knee flexion angles, smaller peak knee valgus moments, and smaller vertical and posterior GRFs during baseline right jumps compared to other conditions. Peak posterior GRF was increased in the incongruent condition compared to the congruent condition during left jumps. Performance was decreased with longer stance times for the dual task compared to the baseline in both jump directions. Further, the incongruent condition had a longer stance time than the congruent condition during left jumps. More research focusing on decision-making with more challenging visual stimuli mimicking dynamic team sports is merited.		[Saadat, Shekoofe; Bricarell, Katherine M.; Gillette, Jason C.] Iowa State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Ames, IA 50011 USA; [Saadat, Shekoofe] Iowa State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Ames, IA 50011 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001091251600001	41	Article; Article		
J	Weedon, Benjamin David; Esser, Patrick; Collett, Johnny; Izadi, Hooshang; Joshi, Shawn; Meaney, Andy; Delextrat, Anne; Kemp, Steve; Dawes, Helen								The Relationship Between Motor Competence Physical Activity Cardiorespiratory Fitness and BMI in UK Adolescents								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			482	488		10.1080/02701367.2023.2265442			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study set out to identify the extent of the relationships between subsections of the Movement Assessment Battery for Children 2nd Edition - MABC2 (manual dexterity, aiming and catching, and balance) to PA, CRF and BMI in adolescents. Methods: Height, BMI, the MABC2, a 20m shuttle run test and wrist-worn accelerometery PA levels (mins) were measured. Multivariable linear regression models, adjusting for sex, height and BMI were used to assess the relationship of the three subsections of the MABC2 with PA, CRF and BMI. Results: A total of 155 adolescents, aged 13-14 years, took part in this study (77 girls, 78 boys). Balance reported significant relationships with moderate to vigorous PA (unstandardised Beta B=0.15, 95%CI 0.02-0.28), vigorous PA (B=0.06, 95%CI 0.02-0.09) and BMI (B=-0.01, 95%CI -0.02-0.005). Balance in addition to aiming and catching skills were both significantly related to adolescent CRF (B=0.30, 95%CI 0.17-0.42 and B=0.29, 95%CI 0.14-0.45, respectively). Conclusion: This study suggests that balance is the strongest correlate skill to achieving the highest intensities of PA and healthier BMI status in adolescents.		[Weedon, Benjamin David; Esser, Patrick; Collett, Johnny; Izadi, Hooshang; Joshi, Shawn; Meaney, Andy; Delextrat, Anne] Oxford Brookes Univ, Oxford, England; [Joshi, Shawn] Drexel Univ, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Kemp, Steve] Oxfordshire Sports Partnership, Oxford, England; [Dawes, Helen] Univ Exeter, Exeter, England; [Dawes, Helen] NIHR Exeter Biomed Res Ctr, Exeter, England; [Weedon, Benjamin David] Oxford Brookes Univ, Gipsy Lane, Oxford OX30BP, England; [Weedon, Benjamin David] Oxford Brookes Univ, Gipsy Lane, Oxford OX30BP, England								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001090371900001	47	Article; Article		
J	Nurse, Cameron A.; Lewis, Cara L.; Shefelbine, Sandra J.								Frontal plane pelvic kinematics during high velocity running: Association with hamstring injury history								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				133	139		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.10.002			NOV 2023	2023	Introduction: Hamstring injuries are the most prevalent non-contact soft tissue injury in sports, with a larger portion of injuries being recurrent. The sagittal plane running kinematics correlated to hamstring injury history has been well documented. However, analysis of frontal plane kinematics allows for observation of stability and symmetry. This study aimed to examine the frontal plane running kinematics of elite collegiate level sprinters, with and without previous hamstring injury, compared to healthy counterparts.Methods: Thirty-nine participants performed three 50-m sprints, with three inertial measurement unit sensors placed on the pelvis: one on each iliac crest and one on the sacrum. Participants were classified based on sex, competitive status, and injury history. To investigate differences based on group classification, the data were used to analyze mediolateral motion (relative magnitude of mediolateral acceleration) and asymmetry (difference in acceleration between right and left iliac crests) during each stance phase throughout the run.Results: Injured sprinters displayed significantly greater mediolateral motion and asymmetry during stances than healthy counterparts. Conclusions: This study demonstrates that frontal plane running stance dynamics are different in athletes with previous hamstring injury than healthy athletes. These athletes may benefit from rehabilitation strategies targeting postural control and stability during dynamic tasks.		[Nurse, Cameron A.] Vanderbilt Univ, Dept Mech Engn, Nashville, TN 37215 USA; [Shefelbine, Sandra J.] Northeastern Univ, Dept Bioengn, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Lewis, Cara L.] Boston Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Boston, MA 02215 USA; [Shefelbine, Sandra J.] Northeastern Univ, Dept Mech & Ind Engn, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Nurse, Cameron A.] Vanderbilt Univ, Dept Mech Engn, Nashville, TN 37215 USA								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001100656000001	53	Article; Article		
J	Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader; Trabelsi, Omar; Tounsi, Olfa; Hawani, Aymen; Fekih, Sofien; Souissi, Hichem; Gharbi, Adnen; Amor, Ahlem; Scharenberg, Swantje; Souissi, Nizar								Optimizing video feedback for snatch technical error correction in young weightlifters: Comparing the effectiveness of different video playback speeds								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1612	1621		10.1177/17479541231208917			AUG 2024	2024	Researchers are actively recommending optimal modes of usage for techno-pedagogical tools to ensure that athletes reap the benefits of technology in their training. In this study, we investigated the most effective video feedback viewing speed among normal-speed (NS), half-speed (HS), and quarter-speed (QS), for technical error correction in young weightlifters during the snatch movement. A total of 37 weightlifters (25 boys and 12 girls), aged 11-12 years, were randomly divided into three groups, namely the normal-speed (control group), the half-speed, and the quarter-speed group. Participants completed a pretest (T0), a seven-week snatch learning unit, and a posttest (T1), as well as a retention test one week later (T2). Video-mediated technical analysis of the snatch movement was conducted using the Kinovea motion analysis software. The main results showed that weightlifters who viewed their feedback videos at a quarter of the normal speed (QS) achieved significantly greater improvements in the displacement of the bar in the first pull Dx2 (T1 vs. T0: 27.41 +/- 26.10%, Hedges' g = 0.87, p < 0.05; T2 vs. T0: 24.34 +/- 27.11%, Hedges' g = 1.07, p <0.05) and the vertical displacement VTR (T1 vs. T0: 22.89 +/- 14.16%, Hedges' g = 1.16, p < 0.05) compared to those who viewed the videos at NS or HS. These findings suggest that slowing down video feedback playback to a quarter of the normal speed can be an effective strategy for enhancing technical error correction in young weightlifters.		[Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader; Trabelsi, Omar; Tounsi, Olfa; Hawani, Aymen; Fekih, Sofien; Souissi, Hichem; Gharbi, Adnen; Souissi, Nizar] Natl Observ Sport, Phys Act Sport & Hlth Res Unit, UR18JS01, Tunis, Tunisia; [Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader; Fekih, Sofien; Amor, Ahlem] Gafsa Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Gafsa, Le Bardo 2019, Gafsa 1003, Tunisia; [Trabelsi, Omar] Jendouba Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Kef, Jendouba, Tunisia; [Hawani, Aymen; Souissi, Nizar] Manouba Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Manouba, Tunisia; [Souissi, Hichem; Gharbi, Adnen] Sfax Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Sfax, Tunisia; [Scharenberg, Swantje] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Res Ctr Phys Educ & Sports Children & Young People, Karlsruhe, Germany; [Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader] Natl Observ Sport, Phys Act Sport & Hlth Res Unit, UR18JS01, Tunis, Tunisia; [Souissi, Mohamed Abdelkader] Gafsa Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Gafsa, Le Bardo 2019, Gafsa 1003, Tunisia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001093796700001	52	Article; Article		
J	Lentillon-Kaestner, Vanessa; Roure, Cedric								Situational Interest within the Reciprocal Teaching Style: Roles of Dyad Composition and Students' Personal Variables								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			509	518		10.1080/02701367.2023.2265450			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose:Based on person-context interaction, situational interest (SI) has been used to interpret students' motivation in task engagement. Through two consecutive studies, the purpose of this research was to investigate the roles of forms of dyads (self-selected vs. ability), feelings of relatedness and perceived competence in eliciting students' SI within the reciprocal teaching style.Method: The first study examined the role of dyad composition to determine how to group students to elicit high SI (self selected vs. ability dyads) and compared self-selected and ability dyads using repeated-measures of students' SI, perceived competence and feelings of relatedness, with 99 students in a PE unit. Based on the results of this first study, demonstrating the benefits of the self-selected dyads, the second study aimed to investigate the role of feelings of relatedness and perceived competence in eliciting students' SI within football (99 students) and gymnastics units (109 students) using MANOVAs and a cluster approach. Results: The first study's results showed higher scores for SI, perceived competence and feelings of relatedness in favor of self-selected dyads compared to ability dyads. In the second study within self-selected dyads, the results showed a small effect of perceived competence and a stronger effect of feelings of relatedness on SI. Conclusion:To elicit students' SI within the reciprocal teaching style, teachers should favor self-selected dyads. This paper highlights the importance of designing contexts where students can develop good peer relationships to increase SI. The implementation of self-selected grouping in PE is interesting since it is less time-consuming than other grouping strategies.		[Lentillon-Kaestner, Vanessa; Roure, Cedric] Univ Teacher Educ, State Vaud HEP VD, Vaud, Switzerland; [Lentillon-Kaestner, Vanessa] Univ Teacher Educ, Teaching & Res Unit Phys Educ & Sport UER EPS, State Vaud HEP VD, Ave cour 25, CH-1014 Lausanne, Switzerland; [Lentillon-Kaestner, Vanessa] Univ Teacher Educ, Teaching & Res Unit Phys Educ & Sport UER EPS, State Vaud HEP VD, Ave cour 25, CH-1014 Lausanne, Switzerland								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001087816100001	59	Article; Article		
J	Holfelder, Benjamin; Schott, Nadja								Associations Between Object Control Skills and Cognitive Functions in Boys, Younger and Older Men: Across-Sectional Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			489	498		10.1080/02701367.2023.2265446			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study aimed to explore the association of cognitive function and process- as well product-oriented outcomes of object control skills (OCS) in boys, younger and older men. Methods: A total of 77 male participants took part in this study, including 35 primary school children (9.04 +/- 0.53 years), 22 younger adults (23.5 +/- 2.34 years), and 20 older adults (69.5 +/- 4.43 years). We assessed the process-oriented performance of throwing, kicking, and catching performance using the component approach. For the product-oriented performance, throwing and kicking velocity was recorded with a STALKER SOLO 2.0 radar gun. For catching, the number of caught balls was assessed. Cognitive function was evaluated using the Trail-Making-Test (TMT) one day later. Results: Younger adults performed better in both domains than the other two groups. The results of the children and older adults were comparable in the motor and cognitive domains. However, the older adults yielded significantly better results for the process-oriented catching and product-oriented throwing performances. Moderate to strong correlations exist between OCS- and TMT performance, with significant correlations predominantly between product-oriented OCS results and TMT in children. Conclusion: The results of both domains support a hypothetical lifespan developmental trajectory with a progression from childhood to younger adult age and a degression in older adults. Furthermore, our results suggest that the suspected relationship between motor and cognitive function depends on age, the analyzed cognitive and motor skills, and the applied methodological approach (process-oriented vs. product-oriented).		[Holfelder, Benjamin; Schott, Nadja] Univ Stuttgart, Stuttgart, Germany; [Holfelder, Benjamin] Univ Stuttgart, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Dept Sport Psychol & Human Movement Sci, Allmandring 28, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany; [Holfelder, Benjamin] Univ Stuttgart, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Dept Sport Psychol & Human Movement Sci, Allmandring 28, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001087803500001	65	Article; Article		
J	Orishimo, Karl F.; Kremenic, Ian J.; Modica Jr, Edward; Fukunaga, Takumi; Mchugh, Malachy P.; Bharam, Srino								Lower extremity kinematic and kinetic factors associated with bat speed at ball contact during the baseball swing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3406	3417		10.1080/14763141.2023.2269418			DEC 1 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to determine which biomechanical variables measured during the baseball swing are associated with linear bat speed at ball contact (bat speed). Twenty collegiate baseball players hit a baseball from a tee into a net. Kinematics were recorded with a motion capture system sampling at 500 Hz and kinetics were measured by force plates under each foot sampling at 1000 Hz. Associations between bat speed, individual joint and segment kinematics, joint moments and ground reaction forces (GRF) were assessed using Pearson correlations and stepwise linear regression. Average bat speed was 30 +/- 2 m/s. Lead foot peak vertical (159 +/- 29% BW, r = 0.622, P = 0.001), posterior (-57 +/- 12% BW, r = -0.574, P = 0.008) and resultant (170 +/- 30% BW, r = 0.662, P = 0.001) GRF were all correlated with bat speed. No combination of factors strengthened the relationship to bat speed beyond these individual variables. These results illustrate the role of the lead leg in generating and transferring ground reaction forces through the kinetic chain in order to accelerate the bat. Training to improve bat speed should include both general lower extremity strengthening exercises and sport-specific hitting drills to improve lower extremity force production following lead foot contact.		[Orishimo, Karl F.; Kremenic, Ian J.; Fukunaga, Takumi; Mchugh, Malachy P.] Northwell Hlth, Manhattan Eye Ear & Throat Hosp, Nicholas Inst Sports Med & Athlet Trauma, New York, NY 10011 USA; [Modica Jr, Edward] New York Inst Technol, Coll Osteopath Med, Old Westbury, NY USA; [Bharam, Srino] Northwell Hlth, Lenox Hill Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, New York, NY USA; [Orishimo, Karl F.] Manhattan Eye Ear & Throat Hosp, Nicholas Inst Sports Med & Athlet Trauma, New York, NY USA; [Orishimo, Karl F.] Northwell Hlth, Manhattan Eye Ear & Throat Hosp, Nicholas Inst Sports Med & Athlet Trauma, New York, NY 10011 USA								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001085746300001	25	Article; Article		
J	Sonesson, Sofi; Kuster, Roman Peter; Kvist, Joanna								Accelerometer-assessed physical activity patterns during the first two years after a non-surgically treated ACL injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				123	132		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.09.011			NOV 2023	2023	Objectives: To describe physical activity patterns and analyze changes during the first two years after a non-surgically treated ACL injury, and to assess correlations between accelerometer-assessed physical activity and self-reported knee function and knee-related quality of life.Design: Prospective cohort study.Participants: 128 patients (61 females, 25.2 +/- 7.1 years) with acute ACL injuryMain outcome measures: Physical activity patterns were measured with accelerometry. Self-reported knee function was assessed using the International Knee Documentation Committee Subjective Knee Form, and knee-related quality of life was assessed using the Anterior Cruciate Ligament Quality of Life questionnaire.Results: Moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) and steps per day increased from baseline to 3 months (p < .001), with no further increase from 3 to 24 months (p > .05). Time in MVPA did not correlate to patient reported outcome measures at 3, 6, 12, or 24 months (p > .05).Conclusions: Physical activity increased from acute phase to 3 months after non-surgically treated ACL injury, but almost one in four patients did not reach recommended levels of physical activity. Physical activity did not correlate with knee function or quality of life. Patients may need improved support to return to physical activity after ACL injury.		[Sonesson, Sofi; Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Div Physiotherapy, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Linkoping, Sweden; [Kuster, Roman Peter] Karolinska Inst, Div Physiotherapy, Dept Neurobiol Care Sci & Soc, SE-14183 Huddinge, Sweden; [Kvist, Joanna] Karolinska Inst, Stockholm Sports Trauma Res Ctr, FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Dept Mol Med & Surg, Stockholm, Sweden; [Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Ctr Med Image Sci & Visualizat CMIV, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Linkoping, Sweden; [Sonesson, Sofi] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping 58183, Sweden; [Sonesson, Sofi] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping 58183, Sweden								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001106321900001	51	Article; Article		
J	Drapkin, Igor; Ivan, Savin; Ilya, Zverev								Revisiting the Effect of Hosting Large-Scale Sport Events on International Tourist Inflows								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	1			98	125		10.1177/15270025231206393			JAN 2024	2024	This paper contributes to the literature examining the impact of large-scale sport events (LSEs) on international tourist inflows from 1995 to 2019. Our proposed method involves the calculation of tourist potential and the analysis of actual-to-potential ratios before and after the event. This approach allows us to measure the effect of LSE on a particular hosting country rather than its average effect. Our findings demonstrate a strong "crowding-out" effect for international tourists, with only four out of 18 LSEs resulting in a positive effect on tourist arrivals in the host country.		[Drapkin, Igor; Ivan, Savin; Ilya, Zverev] Ural Fed Univ, Grad Sch Econ & Management, 19 Mira St, Ekaterinburg, Russia; [Drapkin, Igor] Ctr Ind Policy Studies, Higher Sch Econ, Moscow, Russia; [Ivan, Savin; Ilya, Zverev] ESCP Business Sch, Madrid Campus, Madrid, Spain; [Ivan, Savin] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Inst Environm Sci & Technol, Barcelona, Spain; [Drapkin, Igor] Ural Fed Univ, Grad Sch Econ & Management, 19 Mira St, Ekaterinburg, Russia								10							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001084174600001	61	Article; Article		
J	Lisboa, Felipe Domingos; de Aguiar, Rafael Alves; Pereira, Gustavo Soares; Caputo, Fabrizio								Acute Effects of a Practical Blow Flow Restriction Device During Swimming Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			466	475		10.1080/02701367.2023.2263050			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The present study aimed to analyze: 1) the reliability of the tissue saturation index (TSI) and ratings of perceived discomfort (RPD) responses wearing a neoprene practical cuff (PrC), comparing with the responses from traditional (TrC) pneumatic cuffs (study I); 2) the effects of PrC on metabolic (blood lactate concentration, BLC), perceptual (rate of perceived effort, RPE) and kinematic responses at sub-maximal swimming velocities (study II). Methods: Study I; 1) PrC test-retest at rest and during swimming ergometer exercise; 2) BFR at rest with TrC inflated to different percentages of the minimum arterial occlusion pressure (MAOP; 60, 80, 100, 120 and 140%). Test-retest reliability of TSI and RPD was assessed by the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and comparisons among conditions were analyzed by one-way repeated-measures ANOVA. Study II; 1) 50, 200 and 400 m swimming performances; 2) sub-maximal incremental swimming protocol with and without PrC. Two-way repeated measures ANOVA was used to compare all variables during sub-maximal velocities. Results: TSI (ICC = 0.81; 95%CI 0.62-0.91) and RPD (ICC = 0.97; 95%CI 0.94-0.99) were reliable under restricted exercise using PrC. TSI during restricted exercise was lower (p <.001) compared to unrestricted exercise (6.8 +/- 6.1% vs. 21.6 +/- 8.2% of physiological normalization). PrC showed higher BLC only at or above 91% of critical velocity (p < .03), while stroke rate and RPE were higher (p < .005), and stroke length was lower (p < .03) during all swimming velocities. Conclusion: This easy-to-handle and affordable practical BFR device increased physiological stress at sub-maximal efforts which could be an additional training tool for swimmers.		[Lisboa, Felipe Domingos; de Aguiar, Rafael Alves; Pereira, Gustavo Soares; Caputo, Fabrizio] Santa Catarina State Univ, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Lisboa, Felipe Domingos] Santa Catarina State Univ, Human Performance Res Grp, Rua Pascoal Simone 358, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Lisboa, Felipe Domingos] Santa Catarina State Univ, Human Performance Res Grp, Rua Pascoal Simone 358, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001085885600001	43	Article; Article		
J	Amo, Christina; Prochnow, Tyler								An iSOPARC Case Study of Physical Activity at a Pop-Up Park								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			569	572		10.1080/02701367.2023.2265443			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Child physical activity (PA) is vital for physical and mental health, yet many children do not meet recommendations. Temporary, place-based programs designed to provide PA opportunities to youth could be a promising approach. This case-study describes familial PA at a suburban pop-up park (PUP) occurring on a weekend during the school year. Methods: iSOPARC (v 1.85) was used with double-rater reliability for a total of four rounds (one round every 30 minutes starting 15 minutes into the event) documenting the PA of individuals in each of the nine target areas at the PUP. PA was dichotomized into physically active (walking or vigorous) and sedentary (sitting or standing). Descriptive statistics were generated. Results: 179 individuals were observed (62% female, 26% children, 28% teens, 45% adults). Overall, 53% (n = 47) of children, 18% of teens (n = 11), and 17% (n = 14) of adults were observed as physically active. Per target area, percentages of physically active individuals were: 93% physically active (n = 14) at the playground, 44% physically active (n = 7) during basketball, 41% physically active (n = 9) during open play, 40% physically active (n = 4) during kickball, 24% physically active (n = 5) at check-in, 20% physically active (n = 6) in the snack area, 11% physically active (n = 2) during reading time, 10% physically active (n = 1) during lawn games, and 6% physically active (n = 2) during boxing. Conclusion: This observational case study provides an example of how PUPs during the school year may be a helpful tool to encourage weekend PA across communities. Future studies should consider the social environment on youth PA.		[Amo, Christina; Prochnow, Tyler] Texas A&M Univ, College Stn, TX USA; [Amo, Christina] Texas A&M Univ, Hlth & Kinesiol Dept, 4243 TAMU, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Amo, Christina] Texas A&M Univ, Hlth & Kinesiol Dept, 4243 TAMU, College Stn, TX 77843 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001084460700001	18	Article; Article		
J	Kirk, Christopher								A 5-Year Analysis of Age, Stature and Armspan in Mixed Martial Arts								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			450	457		10.1080/02701367.2023.2252473			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Athlete stature and armspan is anecdotally assumed to provide an advantage in mixed martial arts (MMA), despite an absence of supporting data. In contrast, winners of MMA bouts have been shown to be younger than bouts losers. Whilst absolute measurements of stature, armspan and armspan:stature scale (A:S) have been shown to not distinguish between winners and losers of MMA bouts, relative differences between competitors have not been analysed. This study aimed to analyse 5 years of athlete age and morphological data to replicate and expand previous studies to determine whether absolute and/or relative age and morphological variables effect winning and losing in MMA. Methods and Results: Bayes factor (BF>3) inferential analyses conducted on the cohort overall (n = 2,229 professional bouts), each year sampled and each individual body mass division found that only absolute (winners = 29.8 +/- 4 years; losers = 30.7 +/- 4.2 years) and relative age (winners = 0.82 +/- 5.3 years younger than losers) differentiates between winners and losers across the whole cohort, in 4 of the 5 years, and in 4 of the 13 divisions sampled. Armspan appears to provide an advantage in heavyweight only (winners = 198.4 +/- 6.6cm; losers = 196.1 +/- 7.7cm), with greater A:S being a disadvantage (winners = 1.003 +/- 0.022cm center dot cm(-1); losers = 1.010 +/- 0.023 cm center dot cm(-1)) in women's strawweight only. No variables had any effect on how bouts were won. Conclusions: These results confirm previous reports that the effect of athlete morphology is greatly overstated in MMA, appearing to be irrelevant in most divisions. Bout winners tend to be younger than losers, particularly in divisions displaying more diverse skill requirements.		[Kirk, Christopher] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sheffield, England; [Kirk, Christopher] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Collegiate Crescent, Sheffield S10 2BP, England; [Kirk, Christopher] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Collegiate Crescent, Sheffield S10 2BP, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001084406900001	47	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Douglas; Baker, Hayden P.; Lee, Cody S.; Pathuri, Manish; Reddy, Sai; Strelzow, Jason								Corticosteroid injection of the knee within one month prior to meniscus repair increases the risk of repair failure requiring meniscectomy								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			369	373		10.1080/00913847.2023.2268604			JUL 3 2024	2024	ObjectiveMeniscal tears are common knee injuries with limited endogenous healing capacity. This study aimed to investigate the association between the timing and administration of preoperative intra-articular corticosteroid injections (CSIs) and the risk of subsequent meniscectomy following meniscus repair.MethodsUsing a national insurance claims database, patients aged 18-40 years undergoing meniscus repair within six months of tear diagnosis were studied. Patients were categorized based on whether they received preoperative CSIs within three intervals prior to repair. Multivariable logistic regression was used to analyze the risk of follow-up meniscectomy while controlling for various patient-related variables.ResultsAmong 5,390 patients meeting inclusion criteria, 201 received preoperative CSIs. The CSI group was older and had higher rates of diabetes, obesity, and knee osteoarthritis. The overall rate of follow-up meniscectomy did not differ between groups. However, CSIs performed within one month prior to repair were associated with significantly higher odds of subsequent meniscectomy compared to CSIs performed between three and six months prior. Obesity, tobacco use, and knee osteoarthritis were also independently associated with higher risk, while increasing age was associated with lower risk.ConclusionThe study highlights an increased risk of repair failure requiring follow-up meniscectomy for patients receiving intra-articular CSIs within one month prior to meniscus repair. These findings suggest caution when considering CSIs as a treatment option for patients scheduled for meniscus repair. Further research is needed to establish optimal timing guidelines for CSIs in relation to meniscus repair and to understand the underlying mechanisms.		[Zhang, Douglas; Pathuri, Manish; Reddy, Sai] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Pritzker Sch Med, Chicago, IL USA; [Baker, Hayden P.; Lee, Cody S.; Strelzow, Jason] Univ Chicago Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil Med, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Baker, Hayden P.] Univ Chicago Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil Med, Chicago, IL 60637 USA								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001083126000001	46	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Donghoon; Destine, Henson; Perez, Andres; Detweiler, Maxwell C.; Corsi, Douglas R.; Lencer, Adam J.; Gibbs, Brian S.; Freedman, Kevin B.; Tjoumakaris, Fotios P.								Workman's compensation as exclusion criteria in rotator cuff repair literature - are we inadvertently excluding race?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			355	359		10.1080/00913847.2023.2267556			JUL 3 2024	2024	Objective: Despite an equal willingness to participate in clinical trials, there is evidence that several minority populations are systematically under-represented in studies. One potential cause and frequently used exclusionary criterion in orthopedic trials is patients with active workman's compensation (WC) insurance claims. The purpose of this study is to determine demographic differences in patients undergoing arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with commercial and government insurance vs workers compensation claims.Methods: This was a retrospective review of patients who underwent primary arthroscopic rotator cuff repair at a single institution in the northeastern United States from 2018 to 2019. Patients undergoing revision cases were excluded. Chart review was used to extract demographic data such as age, gender, insurance, and reported race.Results: A total of 4553 patient records were reviewed and included. There were 742 WC patients and 3811 non-WC patients. Two hundred and forty-four patients did not report their race. Overall, WC patients differed from non-WC with respect to race (P < 0.001). One hundred and eleven (15.0%) of WC and 293 (7.7%) non-WC patients reported being 'Black' or 'African American' (P = 0.002). This compares to 368 (49.6%) WC and 2788 (73.2%) non-WC patients who reported 'White' (P < 0.001). About 16.8% of WC patients were identified as 'Hispanic or Latino,' compared to 5.2% of non-WC (P < 0.001).Conclusion: African American and Hispanic/Latino patients are over-represented in workman's compensation patient populations relative to non-workman's compensation. Conversely, white patients are over-represented in non-WC patient populations, which serve as the basis for the majority of clinical study populations. Excluding workman's compensation patients from clinical trials may lead to an underrepresentation of African American and Hispanic/Latino patient populations in orthopedic clinical trials. In doing so, the generalizability of the results of rotator cuff repair clinical outcomes research to all races and ethnicities may be compromised.		[Lee, Donghoon; Destine, Henson; Perez, Andres; Detweiler, Maxwell C.; Corsi, Douglas R.; Lencer, Adam J.; Gibbs, Brian S.; Freedman, Kevin B.; Tjoumakaris, Fotios P.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Sidney Kimmel Coll Med, Rothman Orthopaed Inst, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Tjoumakaris, Fotios P.] Rothman Orthopaed, Attn Res 2500 English Creek Ave Bldg 1300, Egg Harbor Township, NJ 08234 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001084832300001	29	Article; Article		
J	Raya-Castellano, Pablo E.; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas; Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel A.; Marzano-Felisatti, Joaquin Martin; Pulido, Juan J.								The pre-match talk: A multiple-method examination of youth-elite football coaches' motivational content								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			604	619		10.1177/17479541231207254			APR 2024	2024	Pre-match meetings are popular scenes in team sports, with coaches typically gathering the full squad within the dressing room and sharing their thoughts before the warm-up and/or competition. Whilst researchers have outlined the effects of informational or emotional talks, little is known about the actual verbal strategies that coaches adopt to influence their players. Therefore, this study examined the motivational content of football coaches' verbal behaviours and underpinning perceptions of pre-match talks' delivery. Five coaches (M-age = 36.2 years) working at a La Liga academy were involved in six pre-match talks (n = 30) and one semi-structured interview each. Talks were analysed using a two-stage coding process after adaptation of validated and motivationally relevant instruments, and interviews were assessed following thematic analysis procedures. Game strategy units were the most commonly employed topic across all coaches, which involved 'neutral' behaviours such as role description, game objective specification, and opposition statements. These were complemented with autonomy and competence supportive messages such as facilitating choices/opinions, offering rationales, supporting past performance, or ego-oriented and social climate support dimensions, depending on the coach. Data suggested that contextual factors could strengthen or attenuate the use of these verbal behaviours/dimensions. Build-up play contents were more likely to feature autonomy support game strategy comments than defending aspects, whereas lower-ranked and underdog opponents were associated with increased disapproving past performance and ego-involving statements compared to when facing higher-ranked opponents or playing derbies. Thus, it is suggested that the use of autonomy-, competence- and relatedness-supportive dimensions in addition to task-oriented messages should be reconsider by coaches if attempting to convey a need-supportive motivational climate.		[Raya-Castellano, Pablo E.] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Calvo, Tomas; Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel A.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Marzano-Felisatti, Joaquin Martin] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Valencia, Spain; [Pulido, Juan J.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ & Psychol, Badajoz, Spain; [Raya-Castellano, Pablo E.] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Carretera Alfacar 21, Granada 18071, Spain; [Raya-Castellano, Pablo E.] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Carretera Alfacar 21, Granada 18071, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001086489300001	64	Article; Article		
J	Carr, Amelia J.; Sharma, Avish P.; Ross, Megan L. R.; Vallance, Brent S.								Comprehensive preparation strategies for a world-class endurance athlete competing in major international competitions in hot environmental conditions: A case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1207	1222	17479541231194126	10.1177/17479541231194126			JUN 2024	2024	Purpose: To document a world-class race walking athlete's preparation for the 2019 International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) World Championships (Doha, Qatar), including periodized training, physiological data, cooling strategies and nutritional practices. Methods: Physiological data (VO2max, m..kg(-1).min(-1); submaximal economy, mL.kg(-1).min(-1); and %VO2max), training volume (km) and intensity (min.km(-1)) were recorded (January-May 2019). Additional training strategies and interventions (altitude training, heat acclimation/acclimatization, cooling methods and pre-and during-race nutrition) were described (February-October 2019). Performances in IAAF-sanctioned 20 km races were also reported. Results: The athlete's highest VO2max result was 74.6 mL.kg(-1).min(-1), and his highest 4 mmol.L-1 walking speed was 15.7 km.h(-1). The best submaximal economy measures (the lowest proportional oxygen use at 13 km.h(-1)) were 48.4 mL.kg(-1).min(-1) (65.2% VO2max). The best performance outcome was a bronze medal-winning performance at the 2019 IAAF World Championships (32 degrees C; 77% RH). Six blocks of altitude training were performed (119 days). Five blocks of heat acclimatization training (127 days), one block of heat acclimation training (8 days) and two blocks of post-training passive heat sessions (16 days) were completed. Internal and external cooling strategies were used, and the athlete's nutritional intake focused on carbohydrate and fluid intake prior to and during races, pre-race supplementation with sodium bicarbonate using chronic and acute protocols, caffeine supplementation during races and pre-race hyperhydration. Conclusion: The strategies used by this elite athlete included repeated heat acclimation, heat acclimatization, passive heat exposure, hypoxic training and heat mitigation strategies. Similar strategies may provide benefit to elite athletes preparing for major international competitions in hot conditions.		[Carr, Amelia J.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Sharma, Avish P.] Victorian Inst Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Ross, Megan L. R.; Vallance, Brent S.] Australian Catholic Univ, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Vallance, Brent S.] Athlet Australia, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Carr, Amelia J.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, 221 Burwood Highway, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia; [Carr, Amelia J.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, 221 Burwood Highway, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001080649700001	89	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Zezhao; Zhu, Weimo; Ulrich, Dale A.; Qin, Man								Have the Fundamental Movement Skills of US Children Changed?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			431	440		10.1080/02701367.2023.2250828			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: By using four national data sets, this study aimed to examine the changes in U.S. children's fundamental movement skills (FMS) from 1985 to 2019. Method: Three Tests Gross of Motor Development (TGMD) normative studies, i.e. TGMD-1 (N = 909, male% = 50), TGMD-2 (N = 1143, male% = 50) and TGMD-3 (N = 864, male% = 51), and the TGMD-2 data of the 2012 NHANES National Youth Fitness Survey (NNYFS-2012; raw N = 352, national represented population = 12,509,706, male% = 51) were used for analyses. Each item in TGMD-2/NNYFS and TGMD-3 was carefully examined, and these that did not match to TGMD-1 were deleted. Cohen's D effect size (ES) was utilized for the difference among year-to-year comparisons. Result: From 1985 to 2000, FMS in US children of 3-7 years old (90% increase & 10% no change) increased temporarily, but remained stable (17% increase & 83% no change) among 8-10 years old. Between 2000 and 2019, however, U.S. children began to demonstrate a slight/stable drop in FMS among 3-5 years old (22% decrease & 78% no change), and a distinct decline among 6-10 years old (80% decrease & 20% no change). While children with normal BMI showed the highest FMS score, the direct cause of reduction in FMS is still unknown. Conclusion: An overall up-and-down change was observed in U.S. children's FMS between 1985 and 2019, and more longitudinal studies with FMS-related variables are needed.		[Chen, Zezhao] Beijing Sport Univ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Weimo] Univ Illinois Champaign Urbana, Champaign, IL 61820 USA; [Ulrich, Dale A.] Univ Michigan, Michigan, ND 48104 USA; [Qin, Man] Shanghai Lixin Univ Accounting & Finance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Weimo] Yunnan Plateau Thermal Hlth Ind Innovat Res Inst, Tengchong 679100, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Weimo] Univ Illinois Champaign Urbana, Champaign, IL 61820 USA; [Zhu, Weimo] Yunnan Plateau Thermal Hlth Ind Innovat Res Inst, Tengchong 679100, Peoples R China								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001080153500001	47	Article; Article		
J	Bliss, Alex; Langdown, Ben								Integration of golf practise and strength and conditioning in golf: Insights from professional golf coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	4			1469	1478		10.1177/17479541231199657			AUG 2024	2024	Strength and conditioning (S&C) interventions for golfers consistently demonstrate improvements in performance metrics such as clubhead speed. Golfers typically employ Professional Golfers' Association (PGA) coaches to support technical and tactical development. These coaches need to ensure golfers balance S&C training alongside competitions and technical golf practise, although no empirical data exist that demonstrates how this integration occurs practically. This study aimed to investigate the perceptions and practises of PGA Professional golf coaches and how S&C is integrated into the golf year. Forty-three (male = 35; female = 8) PGA coaches completed a mixed-methods survey with questions on themes such as coaching approach, perceptions of S&C, annual planning and goal setting. Results show that formal planning processes are highly variable or absent. The majority (n = 29; 70.7%) of PGA coaches stated they worked with an S&C coach and see the role of the S&C coach to support golfers with their input. However, when planning the season, 63.4% (n = 26) of coaches do so without input from the S&C coach. These and other related disconnects between desire for S&C intervention and inclusion of the S&C coach in planning processes were evident throughout survey responses. There may be subsequent risks of conflict or misunderstanding between PGA coach, S&C coach and golfer. It is recommended golf coaches, golfers and S&C coaches work collaboratively as a multidisciplinary support team to ensure coordinated golfer support is obtained.		[Bliss, Alex] St Marys Univ, Ctr Appl Performance Sci, London, England; [Langdown, Ben] Open Univ, Sch Educ Childhood Youth & Sport, Milton Keynes, England; [Bliss, Alex] St Marys Univ, Sch Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, Waldegrave Rd, London TW1 4SX, England; [Bliss, Alex] St Marys Univ, Sch Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, Waldegrave Rd, London TW1 4SX, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001092121100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Wallace, Olivia; Vickery, Will; Bruce, Lyndell								Does game-based training replicate match inside-50 entries in elite Australian Rules football?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1143	1152		10.1177/17479541231204114			JUN 2024	2024	The purpose of this research was to determine if the training design of an elite Australian Rules football team replicated match conditions for inside-50 entries. Notational analyses of one professional Australian Rules football club's training and match footage were conducted for every disposal that entered the inside-50 during either game-based training or matches. Analysed variables included how the ball was received, time in possession and location. Statistical analyses were undertaken using Mann-Whitney tests, a multivariate analysis of variance and a decision tree analysis. Significant differences were identified between game-based training and competition matches for 34 of the 54 inside-50 entry variables. Of these 34 variables, 10 showed a strong effect between session types. When examining the efficiency of inside-50 entries, only effective disposals produced a significant difference between training and matches, with no differences for neutral and ineffective disposals. The session type, how the ball was received, decision (e.g., kick vs. handball) and pressure acts were the most important contributors to effective inside-50 entry disposal efficiency. The results suggest this professional Australian Rules team does not participate in training sessions that reflect inside-50 match conditions. This study may provide a framework for elite Australian Rules teams on which to structure their inside-50 training.		[Wallace, Olivia; Vickery, Will; Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Burwood, Australia; [Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Burwood, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001092117800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Lepinet, Ugo; Tanniou, Julien; Communier, Emmanuelle Courtois; Creach, Vincent; Beaumont, Marc								Impact of anthropometric data and physical activity level on the closed kinetic chain upper extremity stability test (CKCUEST) score: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				91	96		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.09.004			NOV 2023	2023	Objective: The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of anthropometric data and the level of physical activity on the CKCUEST score on uninjured subjects.Method: Subjects were eligible for the study if they were aged between 18 and 25 years old. Anthropometric data were collected, and the physical activity level was assessed using the Global Physical Activity Questionnaire (GPAQ). The primary endpoint was the CKCUEST score. The CKCUEST was performed three times and the score was the mean of the 3 tries. The compared groups were posteriori dichotomized according to the median. A multivariate model has been built by step-by-step selection with a threshold set at 0.05. Results: 82 subjects were included. The difference between groups determined for each variable was statistically significant for CKCUEST score (p < 0.0001) and for physical activity level (p = 0.0245). The multivariate analysis showed that arm span, sex and weight are, in order, three main variables influencing the CKCUEST score. A predictive equation was established based on these 3 factors (R-2 = 0.51).Conclusion: The CKCUEST score seems to be impacted by sex, weight and arm span. A predictive equation for the CKCUEST score was proposed: (0.271 x Upper Limb Span)-(0.103 x Weight)-(3.219 x Sex)-17.719.		[Lepinet, Ugo; Creach, Vincent] Inst Format Massokinesitherapie, Brest, France; [Tanniou, Julien; Communier, Emmanuelle Courtois] Univ Hosp Brest, CIC INSERM 1412, Brest, France; [Beaumont, Marc] Ctr Hosp Pays Morlaix, Pulm Rehabil Unit, Morlaix, France; [Beaumont, Marc] Univ Brest, INSERM, CHRU Brest, UMR 1304,GETBO, Brest, France; [Lepinet, Ugo] Inst Format Massokinesitherapie, Brest, France								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001094786300001	22	Article; Article		
J	Mckee, James R.; Girard, Olivier; Peiffer, Jeremiah J.; Scott, Brendan R.								Repeated-Sprint Training With Blood Flow Restriction: A Novel Approach to Improve Repeated-Sprint Ability?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	5			598	607		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000771			OCT 2023	2023	Team sport athletes commonly perform repeated short-duration sprints (<= 10 seconds) separated by brief recovery periods (<= 60 seconds). The ability to maintain performance over a series of sprints is termed repeated-sprint ability (RSA). The physiological limiters of RSA include decreased force production capacity, insufficient energy supply, and metabolite accumulation. These limiting factors can be improved through repeated-sprint training, with greater RSA gains when performing this training with systemic hypoxia (i.e., reduced fraction of inspired oxygen). Exercising with blood flow restriction (BFR) causes localized hypoxia and a substantial metabolite load, which may provide an adjunct training method to improve RSA. Training with BFR augments muscular strength and adenosine triphosphate supply, which may improve subsequent sprint performance. Improved aerobic fitness, phosphocreatine resynthesis, and metabolite removal from BFR training could also enhance between-sprint recovery to resist fatigue. Despite the possible physiological benefits of repeated-sprint BFR training to improve RSA, there are no published reviews to collate this information. Therefore, this review proposes a theoretical framework for how BFR training could combat fatiguing factors and improve RSA based on current knowledge of the physiological impact of repeated-sprint training and BFR. Finally, guidance will be provided regarding how practitioners may implement BFR training to improve RSA.		[Mckee, James R.; Peiffer, Jeremiah J.; Scott, Brendan R.] Murdoch Univ, Murdoch Appl Sports Sci Lab, Perth, Australia; [Mckee, James R.; Peiffer, Jeremiah J.; Scott, Brendan R.] Murdoch Univ, Ctr Hlth Ageing, Perth, Australia; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, Australia; [Mckee, James R.] Murdoch Univ, Murdoch Appl Sports Sci Lab, Perth, Australia								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:001080063200008	61	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Zhi Yong; Ji, Hong Shen; He, Jia Xin; Huang, Lin Jie; Ding, Shi Cong; Sun, Jian; Li, Duan Ying								A Meta-analysis of the Effects of High-Intensity Interval Training and Small-Sided Games on Sprint Performance in Adolescents								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	5			587	597		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000773			OCT 2023	2023	Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. This study aimed to compare the effects of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and small-sided games (SSGs) on sprint performance in adolescent athletes in team sports and to provide reference data for training adolescent team-sport athletes. The literature search was performed in PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, Embase, and SPORTDiscus. Seven eligible articles were selected according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. HIIT was significantly better than SSGs in the improvement of linear sprint ability (LSA) (standardized mean difference [SMD] = 0.35; p = 0.007). Within-group comparisons showed that both HIIT (SMD = 0.45; p = 0.0007) and SSGs (SMD = 0.27; p = 0.04) effectively improved LSA. There was no significant difference between HIIT and SSGs in the improvement of repeated sprint ability (RSA) (SMD = -0.05; p = 0.77). Within-group comparisons showed no significant differences but a larger effect size of HIIT (SMD = 0.36) than that of SSGs (SMD = 0.17). HIIT is superior to SSGs in improving LSA. Although HIIT is not the best training method for sprint ability, it improves aerobic capacity and speed performance, helping athletes save time and improve training efficiency. HIIT and SSGs have similar training effects on RSA.		[Zhang, Zhi Yong; He, Jia Xin; Huang, Lin Jie] Guang Zhou Sport Univ, Digitalized Strength & Conditioning Training Lab, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Ji, Hong Shen; Ding, Shi Cong; Sun, Jian; Li, Duan Ying] Guang Zhou Sport Univ, Sch Athlet Training, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Li, Duan Ying] Guang Zhou Sport Univ, Sch Athlet Training, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001080063200007	61	Article; Article		
J	Duggan, John David; Keane, Karen; Moody, Jeremy; Byrne, Paul J.; Malone, Shane; Collins, Kieran; Ryan, Lisa								Strength and Conditioning Recommendations for Female Athletes: The Gaelic Footballer								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	5			525	544		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000761			OCT 2023	2023	Ladies Gaelic football (LGF) is a traditional, amateur Gaelic sport played by female athletes. LGF is an invasion-based field sport involving high-intensity, intermittent match play. There is currently a paucity of research on intercounty (elite level) LGF despite a growing interest in the male version of the game. This article aims to provide strength and conditioning recommendations for LGF with particular focus on the intercounty level of play. Recommendations within this article include a needs analysis, female injury epidemiology, physical and physiological demands, female physiology, strength training, and specific conditioning guidelines based on the sport. Additional recommendations include an LGF-specific testing battery, a proposed periodization cycle, and sports-specific speed and agility development.		[Duggan, John David; Keane, Karen; Ryan, Lisa] Atlantic Technol Univ ATU, Sch Sci & Comp, Dept Sport Exercise & Nutr, Galway, Ireland; [Duggan, John David; Moody, Jeremy] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci Sport, Cyncoed Campus, Cardiff, Wales; [Byrne, Paul J.] Nisantasi Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Moody, Jeremy] South East Technol Univ, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Carlow Campus, Carlow, Ireland; [Malone, Shane; Collins, Kieran] Technol Univ Dublin, Gael Sports Res Ctr, Tallaght Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Duggan, John David] Atlantic Technol Univ ATU, Sch Sci & Comp, Dept Sport Exercise & Nutr, Galway, Ireland; [Duggan, John David] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci Sport, Cyncoed Campus, Cardiff, Wales								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001080063200002	164	Article; Article		
J	Reilly, Patrick; Solow, John L.; von Allmen, Peter								When the Stars Are Out: The Impact of Missed Games on NBA Television Audiences								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	7			877	902		10.1177/15270025231174616			OCT 2023	2023	Using the 2018-2019 NBA season, we examine the causes and effects of star players missing games. Focusing on 19 star players, we find that injury, proximity to the end of season, games on consecutive days, and opponent quality lead to missed games. We then estimate a model of NBA television audience size using granular data from nationally broadcast games. Doubling the proportion of star players missing games reduces TV audience by approximately 6.5 million household viewings per regular season. A rough estimate of the advertising revenue lost due to stars missing games is between $15 and $20 million per season.		[Reilly, Patrick; von Allmen, Peter] Skidmore Coll, Dept Econ, Saratoga Springs, NY USA; [Solow, John L.] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Econ, Orlando, FL USA; [Solow, John L.] Univ Cent Florida, Coll Business, Dept Econ, 12744 Pegasus Dr, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Solow, John L.] Univ Cent Florida, Coll Business, Dept Econ, 12744 Pegasus Dr, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001063464200003	31	Article; Article		
J	Kempfert, David J.; Chaconas, Eric J.; Daugherty, Matthew L.; Clark, Nicholas C.								Test-retest reliability of quantitative sensory testing, active joint position sense, and functional hop testing in amateur adult athletes with unilateral anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				63	73		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.09.007			NOV 2023	2023	Objectives: The somatosensory system fulfils a critical role in functional knee joint stability (FKJS) by providing afferent feedback necessary for neuromuscular control. Individuals with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLr) have altered somatosensory function. Somatosensory characteristics are assessed by proprioception and quantitative sensory testing. The purpose of the study was to examine intra-rater and inter-rater reliability of methods used to assess somatosensory characteristics and FKJS in amateur adult athletes with unilateral ACLr.Design: Repeated measures.Setting: University.Participants: 8 female, 4 male with unilateral autogenous ACLr.Main outcome measures: Bilateral measurements at 5 lower extremity locations and the anterior forearm: light touch (LT), vibration sense (VS), pressure pain threshold (PPT); knee active joint position sense (AJPS); adapted crossover hop for distance (ACHD). Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) determined reliability, defined as: poor (<0.50), moderate (0.50-0.75), good (0.75-0.90).Results: ACLr-side intra-rater/inter-rater ICCs ranged: LT, -0.27-0.80/-0.01-0.84; VS, 0.12-0.90/0.25-0.90; PPT, 0.49-0.98/0.86-0.99; AJPS, 0.15-0.79/0.55-0.87; ACHD, 0.98/0.99. Uninjured-side intra-rater/inter-rater ICCs ranged: LT, 0.12-0.66/-0.09-0.64; VS, 0.35-0.89/0.05-0.81; PPT, 0.65-0.99/0.45-0.95; AJPS, 0.07-0.81/ 0.37-0.99; ACHD, 0.99/0.98.Conclusions: Intra-rater and inter-rater reliability was poor to good for both limbs. Overall, PPT and the ACHD demonstrated the highest ICCs. Some somatosensory assessments can be employed with confidence, while others should be used with caution.		[Kempfert, David J.; Daugherty, Matthew L.] Univ St Augustine Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, St Augustine, FL 32086 USA; [Chaconas, Eric J.] Bellin Coll, Sci Phys Therapy Program, 3201 Eaton Rd, Green Bay, WI 54311 USA; [Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester C04 3SQ, Essex, England; [Kempfert, David J.] Univ St Augustine Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, St Augustine, FL 32086 USA								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001137942000001	69	Article; Article		
J	Warneke, Konstantin; Hillebrecht, Martin; Claassen-Helmers, Enno; Wohlann, Tim; Keiner, Michael; Behm, David G.								Effects of a Home-Based Stretching Program on Bench Press Maximum Strength and Shoulder Flexibility								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			597	604		10.52082/jssm.2023.597			DEC 2023	2023	Recent research showed significant stretch-mediated maximum strength increases when performing stretching between 5 to 120 minutes per day with the calf muscle. However, since the practical applicability of these long stretching durations was questioned and studies exploring the transferability to the upper body are scarce, the aim of this study was to investigate the possibility of using a home-based stretching program to induce significant increases in maximum strength and flexibility. Therefore, 31 recreationally active participants (intervention group: 18, control group: 13) stretched the pectoralis major for 15min/day for eight weeks, incorporating three different stretching exercises. The maximum strength was tested isometrically and dynamically in the bench press (one-repetition maximum: 1RM) as well as shoulder range of motion (ROM) performing bilateral shoulder rotation with a scaled bar. Using a two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with repeated measures, the results showed high magnitude Time effects (n(2 )= 0.388 0.582, p < 0.001) and Group*Time interaction (n(2) = 0.281 0.53, p < 0.001 0.002), with increases of 7.4 +/- 5.6% in 1RM and of 9.8 +/- 5.0% in ROM test in the intervention group. In the isometric testing, there was a high-magnitude Time effect (n(2) = 0.271, p = 0.003), however, the Group*Time interaction failed to reach significance (p = 0.75). The results are in line with previous results that showed stretch-mediated maximum strength increases in the lower extremity. Future research should address the underlying physiological mechanisms such as muscle hypertrophy, contraction conditions as well as pointing out the relevance of intensity, training frequency and stretching duration.		[Warneke, Konstantin] Alpen Adria Univ Klagenfurt, Inst Sport Sci, Klagenfurt, Austria; [Warneke, Konstantin; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Hillebrecht, Martin; Claassen-Helmers, Enno; Wohlann, Tim] Carl von Ossietzky Univ Oldenburg, Univ Sports Ctr, Oldenburg, Germany; [Keiner, Michael] German Univ Hlth & Sport, Inst Exercise & Training Sci, Ismaning, Germany; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001081599300001	48	Article; Article		
J	Song, Tao; Jilikeha; Deng, Yujie								Physiological and Biochemical Adaptations to a Sport-Specific Sprint Interval Training in Male Basketball Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	4			605	613		10.52082/jssm.2023.605			DEC 2023	2023	The present study compared the effects of incorporating traditional sprint interval training (SIT) or basketball-specific SIT (SSIT) into typical off-season training of male basketball players. Adaptations to and effect size (EF) of interventions on aerobic fitness [evalu-ated using Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test level-1 (Yo-Yo IR1)], change of direction [T-test (TT) and Illinois agility test (IAT)], vertical jump (VJ), standing long jump (SLJ), linear speed, maxi-mal strength [one repetition maximum test in leg press (1RMLP)], and hormonal status were examined. Male athletes (age = 25.7 +/- 2.0 years; height = 188.1 +/- 7.9 cm; body mass = 85.9 +/- 8.0 kg) were randomly assigned to one of three groups of SIT (n = 10): three sets of 10 x 15 sec all-out intervals with 1:1 recovery be-tween bouts and a 3-min recovery between sets; SSIT (n = 10): the same intervals as SIT + basketball-specific ball drills while run-ning; and CON (n = 10): two sessions per week of regular basket-ball technical and tactical drills. SIT and SSIT resulted in signifi-cant changes compared with baseline in maximal oxygen uptake (4.9%, ES = 2.22 vs. 6%, ES = 2.57), TT (-1.8%, ES =-0.46 vs. -2.7%, ES = -1.14), IAT (-4.5%, ES =-2.01 vs.-5.4%, ES = -1.93), VJ (7.5%, ES = 0.58 vs. 12%, ES = 0.95), linear sprint time (-2.9%, ES =-0.32 vs.-4.3%, ES = -0.69), Yo-Yo IR1 (18.5%, ES = 2.19 vs. 23.7%, ES = 2.56), serum testosterone (28%, ES = 1.52 vs. 29.7%, ES = 1.59), and cortisol (-6.53%, ES =-0.37 vs. -12.06%, ES = -0.64). Incorporating SIT and SSIT into typical off-season basketball training triggers adaptive mechanisms that enhance aer-obic and anaerobic performance in male basketball players. The effect size values indicate more significant effects of SSIT than SIT in most physiological and sport-specific adaptations. Such a superior effect could be attributed to the more basketball-specific movement pattern of the SSIT. Such interventions can be used by the coaches and athletes for designing the training load and for bet -ter training adaptations throughout the training seasons and com-petition periods.		[Song, Tao; Jilikeha] Sichuan Univ Sci & Engn, Sch Phys Educ, Zigong, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Deng, Yujie] Ziliujing Dist Shuping Primary Sch, Zigong, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Song, Tao] Sichuan Univ Sci & Engn, Sch Phys Educ, Zigong, Sichuan, Peoples R China								34							Sport Sciences	WOS:001078047800001	42	Article; Article		
J	Mashimo, Sonoko; Nishida, Satoru; Ito, Akira; Ogaki, Ryo; Hirono, Junichi; Hogan, Takaaki; Yoshida, Naruto								Injury data collection and utilisation practices in university sports teams: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				55	61		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.09.003			NOV 2023	2023	Objectives: This study aimed to examine injury surveillance practices in a variety of university sports teams and barriers and facilitators for injury data collection and utilisation.Design: Cross-sectional study.Setting: University sports teams in Japan.Participants: Medical, coaching, and other staff (non-medical/-coaching staff) of the university sports teams in Japan.Main outcome measures: The survey included 31 questions that examined the barriers and facilitators for injury data collection, and the type of data on injury and exposure collected.Results: Injury data were collected during matches for 69 teams (48.3%) and training for 61 teams (42.7%). Injuries were primarily captured by athletic trainers in teams with medical staff, coaching staff and athletes in teams without medical staff. Common barriers in collecting and utilising injury data included limited funding for trained personnel and lack of time for medical staff to record data. Facilitating factors included clarification of the methods employed in recording and utilising injury data for teams with medical staff and the deployment of trained personnel to record injuries for teams without medical staff.Conclusions: Approximately half of the Japanese university teams collected injury data. Considering barriers and facilitators is crucial to facilitate the collection and utilisation of injury data.		[Mashimo, Sonoko] Osaka Electrocommun Univ, Inst Liberal Arts & Sci, Neyagawa, Japan; [Nishida, Satoru] Ryutsu Keizai Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Ryugasaki, Japan; [Ito, Akira] Edogawa Univ, Coll Sociol, Nagareyama, Japan; [Ogaki, Ryo] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Humanities & Social Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Hirono, Junichi] Shinshu Univ, Sch Gen Educ, Matsumoto, Japan; [Hogan, Takaaki] Osaka Electrocommun Univ, Media Commun Ctr, Neyagawa, Japan; [Yoshida, Naruto] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Hlth Care, Tokyo, Japan; [Mashimo, Sonoko] Osaka Electrocommun Univ, Ctr Phys & Math, Inst Liberal Arts & Sci, 18-8 Hatsucho, Neyagawa, Osaka 5728530, Japan; [Mashimo, Sonoko] Osaka Electrocommun Univ, Ctr Phys & Math, Inst Liberal Arts & Sci, 18-8 Hatsucho, Neyagawa, Osaka 5728530, Japan								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001082217900001	30	Article; Article		
J	Lempke, Alexandra F. DeJong; Hunt, Danielle L.; Dawkins, Corey; Stracciolini, Andrea; Kocher, Mininder S.; d'Hemecourt, Pierre A.; Whitney, Kristin E.								Adolescent and young adult hip and knee strength profiles relate to running gait biomechanics								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				48	54		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.09.005			NOV 2023	2023	Objectives: Compare and assess relationships between strength and running biomechanics among healthy adolescents and young adult males and females.Design: Retrospective cohort.Setting: Clinic.Participants: 802 healthy participants (570 F, 232 M; 16.6 +/- 2.3 years). Main outcome measures: Mass-normalized knee flexor and extensor strength, hip adductor and abductor strength, hamstrings-to-quadriceps (H:Q), and abductor-to-adductor (Abd:Add) ratios were obtained using hand-held dynamometry. Mass-normalized peak vertical ground reaction force (vGRF), %stance, cadence, and stride length were obtained using an instrumented treadmill. Multivariate analyses of variance were used to compare strength and biomechanics across ages and sexes. Linear regressions were used to assess the relationships between strength and biomechanics, accounting for speed, age, and sex. Independent t-tests were used to compare strength between strength ratio profiles.Results: Strength and running biomechanics significantly differed between sexes (p-range: <0.001-0.05) and age groups (p-range: <0.001-0.02). Strength and strength ratios were significantly associated with increased cadence (p-range:0.001-0.04) and stride lengths (p-range:0.004-0.03), and decreased vGRF (p < 0.001). Lower H:Q ratios had significantly lower strength measures (p < 0.001). Higher Abd:Add ratios had significantly increased abductor strength (p < 0.001).Conclusions: Strength and running biomechanics differed by sexes and ages. Hip and knee strength and strength ratios were related to select spatiotemporal and kinetic biomechanical features.		[Lempke, Alexandra F. DeJong] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, 830 N Univ Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Hunt, Danielle L.; Dawkins, Corey; Stracciolini, Andrea; Kocher, Mininder S.; d'Hemecourt, Pierre A.; Whitney, Kristin E.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, 20 Hope Ave, Waltham, MA 02453 USA; [Hunt, Danielle L.; Dawkins, Corey; Stracciolini, Andrea; Kocher, Mininder S.; d'Hemecourt, Pierre A.; Whitney, Kristin E.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, 319 Longwood Ave, Boston, MA 20115 USA; [Stracciolini, Andrea; Kocher, Mininder S.; d'Hemecourt, Pierre A.; Whitney, Kristin E.] Harvard Med Sch, 319 Longwood Ave, Boston, MA 20115 USA; [Lempke, Alexandra F. DeJong] SKB 1235,830 N Univ Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Lempke, Alexandra F. DeJong] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, 830 N Univ Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Lempke, Alexandra F. DeJong] SKB 1235,830 N Univ Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001085045300001	41	Article; Article		
J	Duncan, Michael J.; Eyre, Emma L. J.; Clarke, Neil; Hamid, Abdul; Jing, Yanguo								Importance of fundamental movement skills to predict technical skills in youth grassroots soccer: A machine learning approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1042	1049		10.1177/17479541231202015			JUN 2024	2024	This study determined the contributors to soccer technical skills in grassroots youth soccer players using a machine learning approach. One hundred and sixty-two boys aged 7 to 14 (mean & PLUSMN; SD = 10.5 & PLUSMN; 2.1) years, who were regularly engaged in grassroots soccer undertook assessments of anthropometry and maturity offset (the time from age at peak height velocity (APHV)), fundamental movement skills (FMS), perceived physical competence, and physical fitness and technical soccer skill using the University of Ghent dribbling test. Coaches rated player's overall soccer skills for their age. Statistical analysis was undertaken, using machine learning models to predict technical skills from the other variables. A stepwise recursive feature elimination with a 5-fold cross-validation method was used to eliminate the worst-performing features and both L1 and L2 regularisation were evaluated during the process. Five models (linear, ridge, lasso, random forest, and boosted trees) were then used in a heuristic approach using a small subset of suitable algorithms to achieve a reasonable level of accuracy within a reasonable time frame to make predictions and compare them to a test set to understand the predictive capabilities of the models. Results from the machine learning analysis indicated that the total FMS score (0 to 50) was the most important feature in predicting technical soccer skills followed by coach rating of child skills for their age, years of playing experience and APHV. Using a random forest, technical skills could be predicted with 99% accuracy in boys who play grassroots soccer, with FMS being the most important contributor.		[Duncan, Michael J.; Eyre, Emma L. J.; Clarke, Neil; Jing, Yanguo] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, England; [Hamid, Abdul] Coventry Univ, Fac Engn Environm & Comp, Coventry, England; [Jing, Yanguo] Leeds Trinity Univ, Fac Business Comp & Digital Ind, Leeds, England; [Duncan, Michael J.] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, England								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001068167400001	42	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Antonio; Heo, Yoon								Once upon a time: using brand stories to sell signature sneakers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	5			950	966		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2022-0082			NOV 2 2023	2023	PurposeStorytelling has long been a popular strategy in marketing. Despite its ubiquity, the influence of storytelling in the sport marketing literature has not been investigated, especially on consumers' perspective. Thus, the purpose of this study is to (a) examine the effect of storytelling on sport consumers, and (b) explore the moderation effect of product involvement on the relationship between storytelling and purchase intention of a signature sneaker.Design/methodology/approachTwo experiments using 3 (storytelling: bullet-point type vs. athlete-based story vs. product-based story) x 2 (product involvement: low vs. high) between-subjects experimental design were conducted.FindingsThe main finding illustrates that both the athlete-based story and the product-based story had a stronger influence on a consumer's purchase intention than the information that was given in a bullet-point condition. This study provides a theoretical implication of storytelling strategy for sport marketing literature. From a managerial perspective, the authors heavily recommend the use of storytelling in sport product advertisements.Originality/valuePrevious literature has highlighted the effect of storytelling in sports organization such as professional sports team or utilization in social media. However, limited studies could be found in the sports product industry and consumer behavior sector. Thus, the current study has a significant value of understanding the storytelling strategy in the perspective of sports consumers as well as brand marketers.		[Williams, Antonio; Heo, Yoon] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Williams, Antonio] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001065405000001	77	Article; Article		
J	Weinrich, Luise; Niemann, Marcel; Braun, Karl F.; Ahmad, Sufian S.; Stoeckle, Ulrich; Meller, Sebastian								Increased asphericity of the femoral head-neck junction in professional breakers compared to hobby athletes - a retrospective case-control study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			333	342		10.1080/00913847.2023.2256210			JUL 3 2024	2024	ObjectiveBreaking has gained public attention as a form of sports activity. The associated intense movements of the hip joints are possibly linked to the development of femoroacetabular impingement (FAI). Therefore, this study aimed to assess clinical and radiographic FAI measures in professional breakers compared to hobby athletes.MethodsThe study cohort consisted of professional breakers with persisting hip pain who were 1:1 matched to a cohort of FAI patients without professional sports careers from our outpatient clinic. The primary endpoint assessed on standardized plain radiographs was the alpha angle (AA). Further measures were the acetabular index (AI), lateral center-edge angle (LCEA), crossover sign, ischial spine sign, and femoral head extrusion index (FHEI). The modified Harris Hip Score (mHHS) and the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) score were used to obtain patient-reported measures.ResultsWe recruited ten professional breakers and matched them to ten hobby athletes. The median AA was significantly higher in the breakers compared with the hobby athletes (73 degrees [IQR 66.5 degrees, 84.2 degrees]) vs. 61.8 degrees [IQR 59.5 degrees, 64.8 degrees], p = 0.0004). There was a significant reduction in weekly training hours in breakers after diagnosis (13.0 hours [interquartile range [IQR] 9.5, 32.4] to 1.5 hours [IQR 0, 4.8], p = 0.0039). There were no inter-group differences regarding mHHS, WOMAC, and additional radiographic measurements.ConclusionBreakers have higher AA in cam-type FAI compared to nonprofessional athletes. The corresponding hip pain significantly reduced training hours and caused the end of their breaking career. The potentially high prevalence of FAI in breakers and the corresponding consequences need to be considered early when athletes present with hip pain.		[Weinrich, Luise; Niemann, Marcel; Stoeckle, Ulrich; Meller, Sebastian] Free Univ Berlin, Ctr Musculoskeletal Surg, Charite Universitatsmed Berlin, Berlin, Germany; [Weinrich, Luise; Niemann, Marcel; Stoeckle, Ulrich; Meller, Sebastian] Humboldt Univ, Berlin, Germany; [Niemann, Marcel] Charite, Berlin Inst Hlth, Julius Wolff Inst, Berlin, Germany; [Braun, Karl F.] Tech Univ Munich, Univ Hosp Rechts Isar, Dept Trauma Surg, Munich, Germany; [Ahmad, Sufian S.] Hannover Med Sch, Dept Orthoped Surg, Hannover, Germany; [Meller, Sebastian] Charite Univ Med Berlin, Ctr Musculoskeletal Surg, Augustenburger Pl 1, D-13353 Berlin, Germany; [Meller, Sebastian] Charite Univ Med Berlin, Ctr Musculoskeletal Surg, Augustenburger Pl 1, D-13353 Berlin, Germany								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001079742300001	70	Article; Article		
J	Nicholls, Mark; Coetzee, Derik; Schall, Robert; Kraak, Wilbur								Analysing match-related performance indicators in Super Rugby Competitions: A study of the 2017-2019 seasons								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1066	1081		10.1177/17479541231198211			JUN 2024	2024	Understanding the factors that contribute to success or failure in Super Rugby is paramount for teams aiming to achieve positive results. This study compares winning and losing teams by analysing match-related performance indicators from 2017 to 2019, offering valuable insights for coaches, players, and performance analysts. Significantly, winning teams exhibited notable disparities in their attacking play, surpassing losing teams in total tries (4.5 vs. 2.4), offloads (12.5 vs. 11.2), number of kicks (22.2 vs. 19.4), and line breaks (3.1 vs. 2.2) (p < .0001 for all). Moreover, defensive performance emerged as a crucial factor, with winning teams demonstrating higher tackle completion rates (89.3 vs. 87.9) (p < .0001) and an increased number of breakdown turnovers won (0.8 vs. 0.6) (p = .0518) compared to losing teams. These findings illuminate distinct performance characteristics that can assist coaches, players, and analysts in optimising tactical analysis, player development, and overall performance. Despite the COVID-19 disruption in 2020 and teams transitioning to other competitions, the research remains relevant due to the expected persistence of fundamental game aspects and performance indicators. This adaptability enables informed decision-making, leading to improved performance and a competitive advantage in the current Super Rugby competition.		[Nicholls, Mark; Coetzee, Derik] Univ Free State, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Bloemfontein, South Africa; [Schall, Robert] Univ Free State, Dept Math Stat & Actuarial Sci, Bloemfontein, South Africa; [Kraak, Wilbur] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Div Sport Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Kraak, Wilbur] Univ Western Cape, Fac Community & Hlth Sci, Dept Sport Recreat & Exercise Sci, Bellville, South Africa; [Nicholls, Mark] Univ Free State, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, 205 Nelson Mandela Dr, ZA-9300 Bloemfontein, South Africa; [Nicholls, Mark] Univ Free State, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, 205 Nelson Mandela Dr, ZA-9300 Bloemfontein, South Africa								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001068588800001	26	Article; Article		
J	Ganz, Scott C.; Allsop, Kieran								A Mere Fan Effect on Home-Court Advantage								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	1			30	53	15270025231200890	10.1177/15270025231200890			JAN 2024	2024	The existence of a home-court advantage is one of the most durable empirical patterns in all of sports. Yet, the mechanisms explaining its strength and persistence remain a mystery in large part because of well-known challenges with statistical identification. We use attendance restrictions in place during the 2020-2021 National Basketball Association regular season as an instrument in order to identify the effect of fans and crowd size on home-court advantage. We show that home teams win by 2.13 points, on average, when fans are present at games compared with 0.44 points when no fans are present. This equates to winning approximately 2.2 additional home games over the course of a regular season. In fixed effects instrumental variables regression models, we estimate that the marginal effect of an additional one thousand fans on home-court advantage is 1.7 points. We conclude that the mere presence of home fans, on its own, explains a larger share of home-court advantage than previously thought.		[Ganz, Scott C.] Georgetown MSB & AEI, Washington, DC USA; [Allsop, Kieran] Johns Hopkins Univ, Baltimore, MD 21218 USA; [Allsop, Kieran] Johns Hopkins Univ, Baltimore, MD 21218 USA								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001064382300001	26	Article; Article		
J	Abedanzadeh, Rasool; Mousavi, Seyyed Mohammadreza; Becker, Kevin								The effect of an internal, external and holistic focus on the learning of a soccer shooting task in male children								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1058	1065		10.1177/17479541231198613			JUN 2024	2024	The benefits of an external focus in motor learning have been well-established in adults, but findings in studies with children have been far more variable. Recent research also suggests that a holistic focus of attention may also enhance motor learning relative to an internal focus, but few studies have tested this strategy with children. Therefore, this study aimed to determine the effect of an internal (IF), external (EF), holistic focus (HF) and no focus control condition on the learning of a soccer shooting task in male children. Male participants (N = 60) between the ages of 9 and 11 completed 60 acquisition trials shooting at a low target at a distance of 7 m while focusing on an assigned cue. After 48 h, participants returned for a 10-trial retention test and a 10-trial transfer test shooting from a distance of 8 m. Results showed that the EF group was more accurate than control throughout acquisition (p = .027). In retention, all focus groups were more accurate than control (p's < .001), and an EF trended toward being more accurate than in IF (p = .059). In transfer, all focus groups were more accurate than control (p's < .001), and EF was more accurate than HF (p = .009). To our surprise, a clear benefit of an EF and HF relative to an IF was not observed. Future work should consider whether this may be due to the nature of the cues selected, or if there are other constraints that may influence when children do or do not benefit from an EF and HF.		[Abedanzadeh, Rasool] Shahid Chamran Univ Ahvaz, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Motor Behav & Sport Psychol, Ahvaz, Iran; [Mousavi, Seyyed Mohammadreza] Univ Isfahan, Sport Sci Fac, Dept Motor Behav, Esfahan, Iran; [Becker, Kevin] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TN USA; [Abedanzadeh, Rasool] Shahid Chamran Univ Ahvaz, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Motor Behav & Sport Psychol, Ahvaz, Iran								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001066519800001	38	Article; Article		
J	Thormann, Tim F.; Wicker, Pamela								Environmentally-Friendly Stadium Travel of Football Fans: A Stated Preferences Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	1			3	29		10.1177/15270025231200889			JAN 2024	2024	Drawing on a rational choice framework, this study investigates fans' stated preferences for (more) environmentally-friendly stadium travel (bicycles/e-scooters) on game days. Data from fans of a German Football Bundesliga club were collected using an online survey in 2021 (n = 1,652). Travel preferences were assessed using the contingent behavior method. The results of regression analyses indicate that the likelihood of using environmentally-friendly transportation means increases with perceived benefits, while perceived costs decrease this likelihood. Specifically, perceived environmental benefits and being an environmental role model had a positive effect, while monetary, convenience, and time-related costs had a negative effect.		[Thormann, Tim F.; Wicker, Pamela] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Univ Str 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany; [Thormann, Tim F.] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Univ Str 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001065191900001	54	Article; Article		
J	Holm, Paetur M.; Simony, Charlotte; Brydegaard, Nadia K.; Hogsgaard, Ditte; Thorborg, Kristian; Moller, Merete; Whittaker, Jackie L.; Roos, Ewa M.; Skou, Soren T.								An early care void: The injury experience and perceptions of treatment among knee-injured individuals and healthcare professionals - A qualitative interview study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				32	40		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.08.006			NOV 2023	2023	Objectives: To better comprehend the initial injury experience and care requirements of knee-injured individuals, as well as healthcare professionals' interactions with early care. Design: Qualitative interviews. Setting: Public healthcare in Denmark. Participants: Ten individuals (6 women) with major knee injuries (6 anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and meniscal tears, 2 isolated ACL tears, 1 isolated meniscal tear, 1 patella dislocation), aged 16-33 years (median 19 years), 1-26 months post-injury (median 3 months). Thirteen HCPs (5 physiotherapists, 5 orthopedic surgeons, 3 general practitioners). Main outcome measure: Semi-structured individual and focus group interviews, transcribed verbatim and with latent thematic analysis. Results: The three main themes were: 1) Emotional struggles in solitude - knee-injured individuals dealing with emotions alone due to limited HCP resources for emotional support. 2) Blurry beginning - knee-injured individuals finding initial care frustrating, a sentiment shared by HCPs. 3) A journey with no map - knee-injured individuals holding varied outcome expectations, while HCPs hesitate to discuss long-term knee health. Conclusion: Early care for knee-injured individuals is filled with worries and unmet emotional and information support needs. HCPs need more support and training to deliver timely and appropriate care.		[Holm, Paetur M.; Simony, Charlotte; Brydegaard, Nadia K.; Hogsgaard, Ditte; Skou, Soren T.] Naestved Slagelse Ringsted Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Res & Implementat Unit PROgrez, Faelledvej 2C, DK-4200 Slagelse, Region Zealand, Denmark; [Holm, Paetur M.; Moller, Merete; Roos, Ewa M.; Skou, Soren T.] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Res Unit Musculoskeletal Funct & Physiotherapy, Odense, Denmark; [Simony, Charlotte; Hogsgaard, Ditte] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Reg Hlth Res, Odense, Denmark; [Thorborg, Kristian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Sports Orthopaed Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Amager Hvidovre, Denmark; [Thorborg, Kristian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Dept Phys & Occupat Therapy, Phys Med & Rehabil Res Copenhagen PMR C, Amager Hvidovre, Denmark; [Moller, Merete] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Oslo, Norway; [Whittaker, Jackie L.] Univ British Columbia, Fac Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Whittaker, Jackie L.] Arthrit Res Canada, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Holm, Paetur M.] Naestved Slagelse Ringsted Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Res & Implementat Unit PROgrez, Faelledvej 2C, DK-4200 Slagelse, Region Zealand, Denmark								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001093117100001	54	Article; Article		
J	Hyun, Moonsup; Jones, Gareth J.; Jee, Wonsok (Frank); Jordan, Jeremy S.; Du, James; Lee, Yohan								Revisiting the Uncertainty of Outcome Hypothesis and the Loss Aversion Hypothesis in the National Basketball Association: Adding a Predicted Game Quality Perspective								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	8			1076	1096		10.1177/15270025231197427			DEC 2023	2023	The unparalleled popularity of major professional sports leagues in the United States has led to numerous sold-out events, regardless of the uncertainty surrounding the game's outcome. This phenomenon prompts us to examine the relationship between outcome uncertainty and attendance, specifically in matchups between high-quality teams compared to games involving lower-quality teams in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Based on our analyses, we have discovered a notable distinction in the relationship between outcome uncertainty and attendance in high-quality games. When analyzing high-quality games, we observed a linear relationship between these two variables that was only marginally significant. Conversely, when exploring nonhigh-quality games, a U-shaped relationship emerged between outcome uncertainty and attendance. While the attendance of nonhigh-quality games was influenced by varying levels of uncertainty, high-quality games attracted fans irrespective of the outcome uncertainty. This research provides valuable insights into the factors that contribute to the popularity and attendance of NBA games.		[Hyun, Moonsup] Utica Univ, Dept Business & Econ, Utica, NY USA; [Jones, Gareth J.; Jordan, Jeremy S.] Temple Univ, Sch Sport Tourism & Hospitality Management, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Jee, Wonsok (Frank)] Western Carolina Univ, Dept Mkt Entrepreneurship Sport Management & Hospi, Cullowhee, NC USA; [Du, James] Florida State Univ, Dept Sport Management, Tallahassee, FL USA; [Lee, Yohan] Univ Northern Colorado, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Greeley, CO USA; [Hyun, Moonsup] Utica Univ, Dept Business & Econ, Utica, NY 13502 USA; [Hyun, Moonsup] Utica Univ, Dept Business & Econ, Utica, NY 13502 USA								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001059359100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Haller, Nils; Kranzinger, Stefan; Kranzinger, Christina; Blumkaitis, Julia C.; Strepp, Tilmann; Simon, Perikles; Tomaskovic, Aleksandar; O'Brien, James; Duering, Manfred; Stoeggl, Thomas								Predicting Injury and Illness with Machine Learning in Elite Youth Soccer: A Comprehensive Monitoring Approach over 3 Months								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			476	487		10.52082/jssm.2023.476			SEP 2023	2023	The search for monitoring tools that provide early indication of injury and illness could contribute to better player protection. The aim of the present study was to i) determine the feasibility of and adherence to our monitoring approach, and ii) identify variables associated with up-coming illness and injury. We incorporated a comprehensive set of monitoring tools consisting of external load and physical fitness data, questionnaires, blood, neuromuscular-, hamstring, hip abductor and hip adductor performance tests performed over a three-month period in elite under-18 academy soccer players. Twenty-five players (age: 16.6 +/- 0.9 years, height: 178 +/- 7 cm, weight: 74 +/- 7 kg, VO2max: 59 +/- 4 ml/min/kg) took part in the study. In addition to evaluating adherence to the monitoring approach, data were analyzed using a linear support vector machine (SVM) to predict illness and injuries. The approach was feasible, with no injuries or dropouts due to the monitoring process. Questionnaire adherence was high at the beginning and decreased steadily towards the end of the study. An SVM resulted in the best classification results for three classification tasks, i.e., illness prediction, illness determination and injury prediction. For injury prediction, one of four injuries present in the test data set was detected, with 96.3% of all data points (i.e., injuries and non -injuries) correctly detected. For both illness prediction and determination, there was only one illness in the test data set that was detected by the linear SVM. However, the model showed low precision for injury and illness prediction with a considerable number of false-positives. The results demonstrate the feasibility of a holistic monitoring approach with the possibility of predicting illness and injury. Additional data points are needed to improve the prediction models. In practical application, this may lead to over-cautious recommendations on when players should be protected from injury and illness.		[Haller, Nils; Blumkaitis, Julia C.; Strepp, Tilmann; Stoeggl, Thomas] Salzburg Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Salzburg, Austria; [Haller, Nils; Simon, Perikles; Tomaskovic, Aleksandar] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Dept Sports Med Rehabil & Dis Prevent, Mainz, Germany; [Kranzinger, Stefan; Kranzinger, Christina] Salzburg Res Forschungsgesellsch mbH, Salzburg, Austria; [O'Brien, James; Duering, Manfred; Stoeggl, Thomas] Red Bull Athlete Performance Ctr, Salzburg, Austria; [Haller, Nils] Salzburg Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Salzburg, Austria; [Haller, Nils] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Dept Sports Med Rehabil & Dis Prevent, Mainz, Germany								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:001052850100001	43	Article; Article		
J	Graham, Andrew Paul; Gardner, Hayley; Chaabene, Helmi; Talpey, Scott; Alizadeh, Shahab; Behm, David G.								Maximal and Submaximal Intensity Isometric Knee Extensions Induce an Underestimation of Time Estimates with Both Younger And Older Adults: A Randomized Crossover Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			406	416		10.52082/jssm.2023.406			SEP 2023	2023	Our perception of time plays a critical role in nearly all daily activities and especially in sports. There are no studies that have investigated and compared time perception during exercise in young and older adults. Thus, this study aimed to compare the effects of exercise on time perception between younger and older adult populations. Thirty-three recreationally active participants were recruited and assigned to either the younger (university students, 9 males and 10 females) or older adults ( 60 years, 8 males and 6 females). All participants completed four exercise conditions over two sessions on separate days: approximately 30 -seconds of knee extensors 100%, 60% and 10% of maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC), and control (no contractions). Prospective time perception was estimated (at 5-, 10-, 20-, and 30-seconds) at the beginning of each session and while performing the exercise. A main effect for condition (p < 0.001, d = 1.06) with subsequent post-hoc tests indicated participants significantly underestimated (estimated time was shorter than chronological time) time in all three exercise conditions compared to the control. There were no significant age group differences. In conclusion, exercise underestimated time estimates regardless of intensity or age. This questions the postulated intensity-dependent relationship between exercise and time perception. While older adults were expected to be less accurate in their time estimates, they may have been able to adopt alternative strategies for age related changes in their internal clock, resulting in no significant age group differences.										7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001031846100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Deng, Liqin; Zhang, Xini; Dai, Boyi; Xiao, Songlin; Zhang, Faning; Fu, Weijie								Mechanics of The Medial Gastrocnemius-Tendon Unit in Behaving more Efficiently in Habitual Non-Rearfoot Strikers than in Rearfoot Strikers during Running								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			582	590		10.52082/jssm.2023.582			SEP 2023	2023	This study aims to quantify how habitual foot strike patterns would affect ankle kinetics and the behavior and mechanics of the medial gastrocnemius-tendon unit (MTU) during running. A total of 14 runners with non-rearfoot strike patterns (NRFS) and 15 runners with rearfoot strike patterns (RFS) ran on an instrumented treadmill at a speed of 9 km/h. An ultrasound system and a motion capture system were synchronously triggered to collect the ultrasound images of the medial gastrocnemius (MG) and marker positions along with ground reaction forces (GRF) during running. Ankle kinetics (moment and power) and MG/MTU behavior and mechanical properties (MG shortening length, velocity, force, power, MTU shortening/lengthening length, velocity, and power) were calculated. Independent t-tests were performed to compare the two groups of runners. Pearson correlation was conducted to detect the relationship between foot strike angle and the MTU behavior and mechanics. Compared with RFS runners, NRFS runners had 1) lower foot strike angles and greater peak ankle moments; 2) lower shortening/change length and contraction velocity and greater MG peak force; 3) greater MTU lengthening, MTU shortening length and MTU lengthening velocity and power; 4) the foot strike angle was positively related to the change of fascicle length, fascicle contraction length, and MTU shortening length during the stance phase. The foot strike angle was negatively related to the MG force and MTU lengthening power. The MG in NRFS runners appears to contract with greater force in relatively isometric behavior and at a slower shortening velocity. Moreover, the lengthening length, the lengthening velocity of MTU, and the MG force were greater in habitual NRFS runners, leading to a stronger stretch reflex response potentially.		[Deng, Liqin; Zhang, Xini; Xiao, Songlin; Zhang, Faning; Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Xini] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY USA; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001069124900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Poon, Eric Tsz-Chun; Chan, Ka Wing; Wongpipit, Waris; Sun, Fenghua; Wong, Stephen Heung-Sang								Acute Physiological and Perceptual Responses to Whole-Body High-Intensity Interval Training Compared with Equipment-Based Interval and Continuous Training								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			532	540		10.52082/jssm.2023.532			SEP 2023	2023	Low-volume, time-efficient high-intensity interval training (HIIT), which involves whole-body (WB) callisthenics exercises, has gained worldwide popularity in recent years. However, the physiological and perceptual impact of WB-HIIT in comparison to specialised, equipment-based training is relatively less studied. This study compared the acute physiological and perceptual responses to a single session of WB-HIIT, ergometer-based HIIT (ERG-HIIT) and conventional moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT). Fourteen physically inactive adults (age: 28.4 +/- 6.5 years, VO2peak: 31.0 +/- 6.2 mL center dot kg(-1)center dot min(-1)) underwent three main trials (WB-HIIT: 12 x 30-s high-intensity callisthenics workout; ERG: HIIT: 12 x 30-s high-intensity cycling bouts; MICT: 30-min cycling at 50% peak power output) in a randomized cross-over order 3 7 days apart. The mean session heart rate (HR) and perceived exertion were comparable across all three protocols (p > 0.05). WB-HIIT attained a similar peak HR (87.4 +/- 9.4 %HRmax) as that of ERG-HIIT (83.0 +/- 8.6 %HRmax), and significantly greater than that of MICT (78.7 +/- 5.5 %HRmax, p = 0.001). However, WB-HIIT induced significantly higher blood lactate levels (7.2 +/- 1.8 mmol/L) compared to both ERG-HIIT (5.1 +/- 1.3 mmol/L, p < 0.05) and MICT (3.1 +/- 1.5 mmol/L, p < 0.001). The participants reported higher self-efficacy and greater enjoyment with WB-HIIT compared to MICT (p < 0.05). The mean HR and perceived exertion responses to WB-HIIT are comparable to those of equipment-based HIIT and MICT; however, WB-HIIT results in greater metabolic strain than both other modalities. Despite this, the overall perceptual responses to WBHIIT are positive, suggesting that it could be a viable exercise alternative, especially for individuals with limited exercise time and restricted access to facilities and equipment.		[Poon, Eric Tsz-Chun; Sun, Fenghua] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Taipo, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Poon, Eric Tsz-Chun; Wongpipit, Waris; Wong, Stephen Heung-Sang] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Shatin, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Chan, Ka Wing] Hong Kong Sports Inst, Elite Training Sci & Technol Div, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Wongpipit, Waris] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Educ, Bangkok, Thailand; [Wongpipit, Waris] Mahidol Univ, Inst Populat & Social Res, Thailand Phys Act Knowledge Dev Ctr, Salaya, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Wong, Stephen Heung-Sang] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Shatin, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001056101800001	42	Article; Article		
J	Kovacs, Balint; Petridis, Leonidas; Negyesi, Janos; Sebestyen, Ors; Jingyi Ye; Zhang, Jingfeng; Gu, Yaodong; Tihanyi, Jozsef								An Acute Transition from Rearfoot to Forefoot Strike does not Induce Major Changes in Plantarflexor Muscles Activation for Habitual Rearfoot Strike Runners								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			512	525		10.52082/jssm.2023.512			SEP 2023	2023	Footstrike pattern has received increased attention within the running community because there is a common belief that forefoot strike running (FFS) is more advantageous (i.e., improve performance and reduce running injuries) than rearfoot strike running (RFS) in distance running. Literature reports suggest greater knee joint flexion magnitude and initial knee angle during stance in FFS compared with RFS running We examined the EMG activation of the triceps surae muscles during an acute transition from RFS to FFS strike. We tested the hypothesis that due to larger knee flexion in FFS the gastrocnemius muscles possibly decrease their EMG activity because muscle fascicles operate under unfavorable conditions. Fourteen competitive healthy middle-and long-distance runners who were habitual RFS runners ran on a treadmill at three speeds: 12, 14, and 16 km?h-1. Each running speed was performed with both FFS and RFS patterns. Lower limb kinematics in the sagittal plane and normalized electromyography (EMG) activity of medial gastrocnemius proximal, middle and distal regions, lateral gastrocnemius and soleus muscles were compared between footstrike patterns and running speeds across the stride cycle. Contrary to our expectations, the knee joint range of motion was similar in FFS and RFS running. However, the sagittal plane ankle joint motion was greater (p < 0.01) while running with FFS, resulting in a significantly greater muscle-tendon unit lengthening (p < 0.01) in FFS compared with RFS running. In addition, medial and lateral gastrocnemius showed higher EMG activity in FFS compared with RFS running in the late swing and early stance but only for a small percentage of the stride cycle. However, strike patterns and running speed failed to induce region-specific activation differences within the medial gastrocnemius muscle. Overall, well-trained RFS runners are able to change to FFS running by altering only the ankle joint kinematics without remarkably changing the EMG activity pattern.		[Kovacs, Balint; Jingyi Ye; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Kovacs, Balint; Sebestyen, Ors; Tihanyi, Jozsef] Hungarian Univ Sport Sci, Dept Kinesiol, Budapest, Hungary; [Petridis, Leonidas] Hungarian Univ Sport Sci, Res Ctr Sport Physiol, Budapest, Hungary; [Negyesi, Janos] Tohoku Univ, Div Biomed Engn Hlth & Welf, Grad Sch Biomed Engn, Sendai, Miyagi, Japan; [Zhang, Jingfeng] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Dept Radiol, HwaMei Hosp, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Kovacs, Balint] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001055539600001	60	Article; Article		
J	Brandl, Andreas; Wilke, Jan; Egner, Christoph; Schmidt, Tobias; Schleip, Robert								Effects of Maximal Eccentric Trunk Extensor Exercise on Lumbar Extramuscular Connective Tissue: A Matched-Pairs Ultrasound Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			447	454		10.52082/jssm.2023.447			SEP 2023	2023	Recently, it has been shown that the extramuscular connective tis-sue (ECT) is likely involved in delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS). Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investi-gate the effects of maximal trunk extension eccentric exercise (EE) on ECT thickness, self-reported DOMS, ECT stiffness, skin temperature, and possible correlations between these outcomes. Healthy adults (n = 16, 29.34 +/- 9.87 years) performed fatiguing EE of the trunk. A group of highly active individuals (TR, n = 8, 0.001). Skin temperature increased from t1 to t24 (31.6 degrees Celsius to 32.7 degrees Celsius, p = 0.032) and t1 to t48 (31.6 degrees Cel-sius to 32.9 degrees Celsius, p = 0.003), while stiffness remained un-changed (p 0.05). Correlation analysis revealed no linear rela-tionship between the outcomes within the 48-hour measurement period. The results may confirm previous findings of possible ECT involvement in the genesis of DOMS in the extremities also for the paraspinal ECT of trunk extensors. Subsequent work should focus on possible interventions targeting the ECT to pre-		[Brandl, Andreas] Univ Hamburg, Inst Human Movement Sci, Fac Psychol & Human Movement Sci, Dept Sports Med, Hamburg, Germany; [Brandl, Andreas; Egner, Christoph; Schleip, Robert] Diploma Hsch, Dept Med Profess, Bad Sooden Allendorf, Germany; [Brandl, Andreas] Vienna Sch Osteopathy, Vienna, Austria; [Wilke, Jan] Univ Klagenfurt, Dept Movement Sci, Klagenfurt, Austria; [Schmidt, Tobias] Osteopathie Schule Deutschland, Osteopath Res Inst, Hamburg, Germany; [Schmidt, Tobias] MSH Med Sch Hamburg, Inst Interdisciplinary Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Hamburg, Germany; [Schleip, Robert] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci Conservat & Rehabilitat Ort, Munich, Germany; [Schleip, Robert] Diploma Hsch, Dept Med Profess, Bad Sooden Allendorf, Germany; [Schleip, Robert] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci Conservat & Rehabilitat Ort, Munich, Germany								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001048180800001	45	Article; Article		
J	Filip-Stachnik, Aleksandra; Krzysztofik, Michal; Del Coso, Juan; Palka, Tomasz; Sadowska-Krepa, Ewa								The Effect of Acute Caffeine Intake on Resistance Training Volume, Prooxidant-Antioxidant Balance and Muscle Damage Markers Following a Session of Full-Body Resistance Exercise in Resistance-Trained Men Habituated to Caffeine								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			436	446		10.52082/jssm.2023.436			SEP 2023	2023	No previous study has analyzed the impact of caffeine intake on prooxidant-antioxidant balance and muscle damage following re-sistance exercise. The aim of this study was to determine the ef-fect of 3 mg/kg of caffeine on the number of repetitions and the prooxidant-antioxidant balance and muscle damage after a ses-sion of full-body resistance exercise. Ten resistance-trained men habituated to caffeine participated in a randomized, crossover and double-blind experiment. Each participant performed two identi-cal resistance training sessions after the intake of 3 mg/kg of caf-feine or a placebo. Blood was collected before and 60 min after substance intake, just after exercise, 60 minutes after exercise, and 24 hours after testing to evaluate the activity of antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, cata-lase), non-enzymatic antioxidants (reduced glutathione, uric acid) levels of oxidative stress markers (plasma malondialdehyde) and muscle damage markers (creatine kinase, lactate dehydrogenase). There were no significant differences between placebo and caf-feine conditions in the total number of repetitions (180 +/- 15 vs 185 +/- 14 repetitions, respectively; p = 0.276; Effect size [ES] = 0.34), the total time under tension (757 +/- 71 vs 766 +/- 56 s, re-spectively; p = 0.709; ES = 0.14) or the rating of perceived exer-tion (13.8 +/- 2.7 vs 14.7 +/- 2.7 a.u., respectively; p = 0.212; ES = 0.32). Reduced glutathione concentration obtained 1 hour after exercise was higher with caffeine than with placebo (p = 0.047), without significant difference between conditions for any other prooxidant-oxidant or muscle damage marker at any time point (p > 0.050 for all). The oral intake of 3 mg/kg of caffeine by re-sistance-trained men habituated to caffeine did not enhance the number of repetitions during a medium load full-body resistance training session to failure and had a minimal impact on the proox-idant-antioxidant balance and muscle damage. The study was reg-istered prospectively at ClinicalTrials.gov with the following ID: NCT05230303.		[Filip-Stachnik, Aleksandra; Krzysztofik, Michal; Sadowska-Krepa, Ewa] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Del Coso, Juan] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Ctr Sport Studies, Madrid, Spain; [Palka, Tomasz] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Krakow, Poland; [Filip-Stachnik, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001044258000001	56	Article; Article		
J	Shi, Lin; Ye, Xin; Han, Dong; Yang, Chengbo; Tu, Yanhao								Acute Effects of Back Squat Combined with Different Elastic Band Resistance on Vertical Jump Performance in Collegiate Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			502	511		10.52082/jssm.2023.502			SEP 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to compare the acute effects of back squat exercise with or without elastic band on countermovement jump performance. Thirteen collegiate male basketball players (age: 20.5 +/- 0.9 years; height: 188.5 +/- 8.5 cm; body mass: 82.8 +/- 12.9 kg) completed 5 familiarization and 4 experimental sessions separated by at least 48 hours. In the experimental sessions, the order of the conditions was randomized so that the participants performed 1 set of 3 repetitions of barbell back squat at 85% of their one-repetition maximum (1-RM), 1 set of 3 repetitions of back squat at 85% 1-RM with 20% variable resistance training (VRT), 30%VRT, or 40%VRT of the total load coming from the elastic band. Countermovement jump performance was assessed before (baseline), 30 seconds, 3 minutes, 6 minutes, and 9 minutes following each condition. Jump height, rate of force development, peak power, and vastus lateralis, vastus medialis, and medial gastrocnemius electromyography data were collected. Compared with the baseline, 30%VRT significantly improved jump height at 3 minutes post-exercise by 1.3 cm (P < 0.001) and 6 minutes post-exercise by 1.2 cm (P = 0.005); 40%VRT significantly improved jump height from 30 seconds up to the 9th minute (1.2 to 1.9 cm, P <less than or equal to> 0.036). The superior jump height was also accompanied by improved kinetic and electromyography data. No significant changes were observed in the barbell back squat and 20%VRT conditions. In conclusion, back squat at 85% 1-RM with 40% elastic band resistance led to superior vertical jump performance with an optimal time window of 3 minutes.		[Shi, Lin] Chengdu Sport Univ, Ctr Postdoctoral Studies Sport Sci, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Shi, Lin; Tu, Yanhao] Chengdu Sport Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Shi, Lin; Han, Dong] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Elite Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Ye, Xin] Univ Hartford, Dept Rehabil Sci, Hartford, CT USA; [Yang, Chengbo] Chengdu Sport Univ, Sch Sport Training, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Shi, Lin] Chengdu Sport Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Chengdu, Peoples R China								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:001052852400001	49	Article; Article		
J	Lynn, Scott K.; Wang, Junsig; Schmitt, Abigail C.; Barnes, C. Lowry								Lower Body Joint Moments during the Golf Swing in Older Adults: Comparison to Other Activities of Daily Living								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			382	388		10.52082/jssm.2023.382			SEP 2023	2023	Golf participation has increased dramatically in the last several years. With this increase in participation, clinicians need better evidenced based strategies to advise those golfers with different pathologies when it is safe to return to the game. Golf teaching professionals also need to understand how to alter golf mechanics to protect injured and/or diseased joints in golfers to allow them to play pain free and avoid further injury. This study used a 3-dimensional link segment model to calculate the net joint mo-ments on the large lower limb joints (knee and hip) during golf (lead and trail leg) and two commonly studied activities of daily living (gait and sit-to-stand) in 22 males, healthy, adult golfers. It also examined the correlations between these knee and hip joint loads and club head speed. The external valgus knee moment and the internal hip adduction moment were greater in the lead leg in golf than in the other activities and were also correlated with club head speed. This indicates a strategy of using the frontal plane GRF moment during the swing. The internal hip extension and knee flexion moment were also greater in the golf swing as com-pared with the other activities and the hip extension moment was also correlated with club head speed. This emphasizes the im-portance of hip extensor (i.e., gluteus maximus and hamstring) muscle function in golfers, especially in those emphasizing the use of anterior-posterior ground reaction forces (i.e., the pivoting moment). The golf swing places some loads on the knee and the hip that are much different than the loads during gait and sit-to-stand tasks. Knowledge of these golf swing loads can help both the clinician and golf professional provide better evidence-based advice to golfers in order to keep them healthy and avoid future pain/injury.		[Lynn, Scott K.] Calif State Univ, Ctr Sport Performance, Fullerton, CA USA; [Wang, Junsig] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Sports Med, Yongin, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Schmitt, Abigail C.] Univ Arkansas, Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, Fayetteville, AR USA; [Lynn, Scott K.; Wang, Junsig; Schmitt, Abigail C.; Barnes, C. Lowry] Hip Knee Arkansas Fdn, Little Rock, AR USA; [Lynn, Scott K.] Calif State Univ, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA; [Lynn, Scott K.] Calif State Univ, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92831 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001070460000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Sumin; Park, Junhyung; Her, Jingang								Comparison of Muscle Activity and Muscle Thickness According to Knee Flexion Angle during Supine Bridge Exercises using the Abdominal Drawing-in Maneuver on an Unstable Surface								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			431	435		10.52082/jssm.2023.431			SEP 2023	2023	This study evaluated changes in deep trunk muscle thickness and lower extremity muscle activities during bridge exercises with the abdominal drawing-in maneuver. Bridge exercises were conducted on an unstable surface at different knee flexion angles (60 degrees, 90 degrees and 120 degrees), with the aim of identifying more effective angles for bridge exercises. This study included 21 healthy adults, aged 20-27 years. Biceps femoris (BF), rectus abdominis, and rectus femoris activity was measured using surface electromyography. The thicknesses of the transverse abdominis (TrA), external oblique (EO) and internal oblique (IO) muscles were measured. BF (p = 0.000, partial eta(2) = 0.670) activity increased considerably as the knee flexion angle decreased. TrA (p = 0.000, partial eta(2) = 0.883) and IO (p = 0.000, partial eta(2) = 0.892) thickness significantly increased, while EO (p = 0.000, partial eta(2) = 0.893) thickness decreased as the knee flexion angle decreased. When performing bridge exercises using the abdominal drawing-in maneuver on an unstable surface, the knee flexion angles should be at 120 degrees and 60 degrees to increase trunk stability and lower extremity muscle activity, respectively.		[Kim, Sumin; Her, Jingang] Hallym Polytech Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Chuncheon Si, South Korea; [Park, Junhyung] Dongguk Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Med Ctr 27, Goyang Si, South Korea; [Her, Jingang] Hallym Polytech Univ, 48,Janghakgil,Dong Myeon, Chuncheon Si, Gangwon Do, South Korea								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001035853500001	21	Article; Article		
J	Olaya-Cuartero, Javier; Pueo, Basilio; Villalon-Gasch, Lamberto; Jimenez-Olmedo, Jose Manuel								Prediction of Half-Marathon Power Target using the 9/3-Minute Running Critical Power Test								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			526	531		10.52082/jssm.2023.525			SEP 2023	2023	Running power output allows for controlling variables that have been previously overlooked by relying solely on speed, such as surface, gradient and weight. The ability to measure this external load variable now enables the analysis of concepts that have predominantly been studied in cycling, such as the Critical Power (CP), in the context of running. This study aims to predict the CP target at which trained athletes run a half-marathon and determine whether races of this distance can serve as a valid alternative to update the CP record. A group of nine trained athletes performed the 9/3-minute Stryd CP test and participated in a half-marathon race in two separate testing sessions conducted in the field. The average power during a half-marathon race is a valid alternative method for determining the CP in trained athletes, as evidenced by the agreement (95% CI: -0.11 to 0.37 W/kg) and trivial systematic bias (0.13 W/kg) between methods. The linear regression model half-marathon power = 0.97 + 0.75.CP (W/kg) showed low standard error of estimate (0.29 W/kg) and significant large association between methods (r = 0.88; p = 0.002). Coaches and athletes should be aware that the CP target for a half-marathon race is 97.3% of the CP determined by the 9/3-minute Stryd CP test.		[Olaya-Cuartero, Javier; Pueo, Basilio; Villalon-Gasch, Lamberto; Jimenez-Olmedo, Jose Manuel] Univ Alicante, Res Grp Hlth Phys Act & Sports Technol, Hlth Tech, Fac Educ, San Vicente del Raspeig, Spain; [Pueo, Basilio] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Alicante 03690, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001055608700001	34	Article; Article		
J	Mamo, Yoseph Z.; Anagnostopoulos, Christos								Stakeholders' "voice" through social media: the case of corporate social responsibility in sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	5			1002	1020		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2023-0084			NOV 2 2023	2023	PurposePrevious corporate social responsibility (CSR) research has mainly revolved around the "usual target" (that is, fans and consumers) that invest money, time and energy in supporting their teams in isolation while largely ignoring individual members of the public. Building on social exchange theory and social media analytics, the authors examine the social outcomes of CSR aggregated from individual members of society's perceived benefits (intangible and psychological).Design/methodology/approachRaw data were drawn from the CSR-focused Twitter accounts of six professional leagues (i.e. @nbacares, @nflplay60, @InspireChange, @thewnbpa, @Pr_nhl, @Mlsworks and @Mlbsocial). The authors collected historical data from each CSR-focused Twitter account (N = 136,076) from March 2010 to September 2022.FindingsAfter conducting sentiment analysis of public perceptions, the majority of tweets (53%) were neutral, 39% were positive and 8% were negative. All CSR-related accounts received more positive tweets about their initiatives than negative ones did. The most prevalent positive topics are supporting the community, education, youth wellness and health and inspiring the young generation. The most prevalent negative topics were related to fake, hypocrite, hate and social justice.Originality/valueThe study contributes to the CSR-sport literature by incorporating members of the general public into the stakeholder ecosystem and empirically examining their perceptions of sport organizations' CSR activities. Also, by drawing on the social exchange theory and the unique nature of social media, the authors highlight when and how the public expresses positive, neutral and negative perceptions over time. Finally, it joins a small but growing body of research that adopts the application of big data to sport management, and it measures the sentiment, frequency, distribution and topics of tweets, thereby determining positive and negative public perceptions.		[Mamo, Yoseph Z.] Old Dominion Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Norfolk, VA USA; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Div Engn Management & Decis Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Div Engn Management & Decis Sci, Doha, Qatar								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001070906800001	53	Article; Article		
J	Alanen, Aki-Matti; Barrons, Zachary; Jordan, Matthew J.; Ferber, Reed; Pasanen, Kati								Between-day reliability of inertial measurement unit parameters during soccer-specific change of direction test								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1050	1057		10.1177/17479541231196733			JUN 2024	2024	This study assessed the between-day reliability of change of direction (COD) biomechanics and speed in youth soccer players using inertial measurement units (IMUs) and high-speed video. A soccer-specific COD test including a 180 degrees pivot turn was performed in both directions by 15 elite female (age: 15.3 +/- 0.6 years; height 162.6 +/- 5.5 cm; body mass: 56.7 +/- 7.1 kg) and 22 elite male (age: 15.4 +/- 0.5 years; height 169 +/- 5.9 cm; body mass: 58.5 +/- 8.5 kg) youth soccer players in two consecutive days. The reliability of the variables was quantified by using intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) analysis with limits of agreement (LoA) and Bland-Altman plots. Based on the results, neither peak resultant acceleration (PRA) nor peak angular velocity (PAV) during final foot contact was sufficiently reliable for 180 degrees pivot turn biomechanics (poor reliability, < 0.5), but the reliability of players' running time to turn and total time was between acceptable to good (0.9>; > 0.7). However, when analyzing females and males separately, the PRA and angular velocity ICC's for females had poor to acceptable reliability, when turning left, and were statistically different from males (Z-score > 1.96). Acceptable to good reliability with reasonable (max 15% difference) LoA implies that speed measures in different phases of COD could reliably reproduce individual differences in 180 degrees pivot turn COD speed. Sex-related differences in repeatability of acceleration and angular velocity call for more comprehensive research in the future. PAV and PRA would not be recommended for the purpose of analyzing individual repeatability of specific steps of COD movement.		[Alanen, Aki-Matti; Jordan, Matthew J.; Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Integrat Neuromuscular Sport Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Alanen, Aki-Matti; Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Barrons, Zachary] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Jordan, Matthew J.; Ferber, Reed; Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Running Injury Clin, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Fac Nursing, Cumming Sch Med, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Pasanen, Kati] Univ Calgary, McCaig Inst Bone & Joint Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Pasanen, Kati] UKK Inst, Tampere Res Ctr Sports Med, Tampere, Finland; [Alanen, Aki-Matti] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Integrat Neuromuscular Sport Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001064683300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Marsollier, Elise; Hauw, Denis								Toward a definition and classification of lost move state: Perceptions of elite trampolining coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			53	63		10.1177/17479541231196472			FEB 2024	2024	Several severe performance blocks have been described in the sport psychology literature, in particular the lost move and the yips. Beyond the identification of the traumatic situations associated with these problems, there is a lack of understanding of the process that ultimately culminates in performance blocks. In the present study, a situated and dynamic analysis of a specific type of block in acrobatics was conducted to: (i) identify the propensities of trampolinists to develop lost move, (ii) categorize the types of moves involved, (iii) determine the circumstances of the occurrence of lost moves as typical situations, and (iv) describe the evolution of the loss and its duration. The nine national and international-level French-speaking coaches we interviewed were asked to describe the lost moves they had experienced as coaches. Prior to their interview, each coach had to answer a questionnaire in which they were asked to identify the number of lost moves they experienced. Based on our results, lost moves appeared as evolutive adaptative processes with four steps: disruption, manifestation, contamination, and final adaptation. The phenomenon appeared as observable behavioral manifestations emerging from the interaction between athletes' dispositions and the situations in which they find themselves throughout their sporting careers. Thus, lost moves might be considered as transitional states in skill development to which an athlete's performance can branch off. Three main levels of concrete interventions were described, including careful consideration of the athletes' dispositions and life-course circumstances, avoiding contamination, time off, and engaging in other activities.		[Marsollier, Elise; Hauw, Denis] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Fac Social & Polit Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Marsollier, Elise] Univ Lausanne, Quartier UNIL Ctr Bat Synathlon, Inst Sci Sport, Bur 2414, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; [Marsollier, Elise] Univ Lausanne, Quartier UNIL Ctr Bat Synathlon, Inst Sci Sport, Bur 2414, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001061944800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Harwood, Kathleen L.; Kell, David; Orellana, Kevin J.; Markiewitz, Nathan D.; Williams, Brendan A.								Stationary bike injuries prompting emergency department presentation in pediatric patients: an epidemiological study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE										2246176	10.1080/00913847.2023.2246176			AUG 26 2023	2023	Objectives: Potential harms of stationary bike injuries in pediatric patients have been highlighted in the literature, but prior work is limited to case series and without population-level analysis. The purpose of this study is to examine the epidemiology of pediatric stationary bike injuries occurring in the US over the last decade using a national database. Methods: Injuries resulting from stationary bike use in pediatric patients from 2012 to 2021 were identified using coding from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database. Patient demographics, injury characteristics, and case narratives were examined. National annual estimates of injury frequency/incidence were calculated using weighting and survey package in R. Univariate analyses were used to compare injuries among groups. Results: We identified 525 stationary bike injuries representing an estimated total of 15,509 injuries in the population. Pediatric patients sustained an average of 1,551 injuries annually, with an estimated yearly increase of 288 injuries (p < 0.01) after 2019. While males sustained more injuries, there were age-dependent differences in frequency of injuries between sexes ( p < 0.01). The upper extremity was the most commonly injured body region overall, but children 5 and under sustained more injuries to the head/neck. The most common overall injury type was lacerations, while fractures predominated in the 6 to 11-year-old age group. Fifty-six percent of injuries were sustained not while riding the bike, most notably among children under 12. Conclusion: Our findings indicate that the impact of stationary bike injury in the pediatric population is not insignificant, and most injuries are related to improper play rather than traditional exercise use. Gender and age-related patterns differed in regard to the type and mechanism of injury sustained. Children 5 and under sustain a disproportionate amount of injuries to the head, neck, and upper extremity. As stationary bikes grow in popularity, preventative measures should be considered to reduce injuries to young children.		[Harwood, Kathleen L.] New York Med Coll, Sch Med, Valhalla, NY USA; [Kell, David; Orellana, Kevin J.; Williams, Brendan A.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Dept Orthoped Surg, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Orellana, Kevin J.] Univ Texas Rio Grande Valley, Sch Med, Edinburg, TX USA; [Markiewitz, Nathan D.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Dept Pediat, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Williams, Brendan A.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Dept Orthopaed, 3401 Civ Ctr Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Williams, Brendan A.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Dept Orthopaed, 3401 Civ Ctr Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001057470200001	17	Article; Article		
J	Schlimm, Joern; Breuer, Christoph								Taking fan engagement to a new level - assessing sports consumer interest in virtual environments and Web3 activations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	5			928	949		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2023-0052			NOV 2 2023	2023	PurposeThis paper explores sports consumer interest in virtual environments (VE) and Web3 activations, specifically how the level of psychological involvement, consumers' generational cohorts and previous experience with VE and Web3 activations influence consumer interest in VE and Web3 products and services related to their favorite sports team.Design/methodology/approachA survey instrument was developed and distributed online resulting in a sample size of n = 526. The survey was designed to measure consumers' psychological involvement with their favorite sports team based on the Psychological Continuum Model, and to determine respondents' interest in potential VE and Web3 activations. Finally, the survey collected demographical information and data regarding respondents' previous experience with VE and Web3 applications. Multiple regression analysis was subsequently conducted to predict the impact of (1) psychological involvement, (2) consumers' generational cohorts and (3) previous experience with VE and Web3 activations on the dependent variable consumer interest in VE and Web3 activations.FindingsThe regression model showed a significant impact of the independent variables on consumer interest in VE and Web3 activations with consumer involvement exerting the highest influence. Consumers' previous experience with VE and Web3 applications also seems to trigger interest, in line with the consumption capital theory. This study also suggests that younger generational cohorts are not intrinsically more attracted to VE and Web3 activations but their interest seems to depend on the type of activation.Research limitations/implicationsThis study is intended as a first assessment of independent variables that may have an impact on sports consumer interest in VE and Web3 activations. Further research is needed to assess the impact these variables combined with other indicators may have on consumer interest, for instance by employing a Structural Equation Modelling (SEM) approach. This research included selected VE and Web3 applications comprising online games, NFTs and cryptocurrencies, to calculate a VE and Web3 Literacy Score for the purpose of this paper. However, the "umbrella term Web3" (Wang et al., 2022) could indicate a number of additional applications not considered in this research. Future studies could examine sports consumer experience with additional Web3 activations when assessing VE and Web3 Literacy.Practical implicationsThe results of this research imply the need for a diversification of the VE and Web3 portfolio offered by sports teams to cater to different consumer segments. Upcoming challenges for sports teams include motivating younger consumers to take an interest in Web3 activations beyond gaming. Additionally, sports teams should encourage loyal supporters in the advanced stages of the PCM who possess limited VE and Web3 experience, to engage in VE and Web3 activations through simplified offers complementing their overall fan experience.Originality/valueVE and Web3 activations currently offered by sports teams are still in their early stages and data underpinning their success is scarce. This is the first study examining variables that may influence consumer interest in a sports context.		[Schlimm, Joern; Breuer, Christoph] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Schlimm, Joern] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001051973800001	63	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Ran; Kaplanidou, Kyriaki (Kiki)								The outcomes of social capital among event runners: quality of life considerations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	5			913	927		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2023-0045			NOV 2 2023	2023	PurposeMass participation sport events, such as running events, have the potential to foster social capital among event participants. The purpose of this study is to investigate the interrelationships among sport event participation, social capital and various (behavioral, psychological, informational and negative) outcomes.Design/methodology/approachFollowing Putnam's social capital approach, a research model was developed and tested using confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modeling, based on survey data from 301 runners with varied running histories and event experiences.FindingsResults showed a limited impact of sport event participation on participants' social capital, indicating that the temporary interactions within the event timeframe were insufficient to generate sustainable social capital among event participants. Nevertheless, significant relationships were found between social capital and behavioral, psychological and informational outcomes of social capital, suggesting that social capital can be converted to a range of benefits for participants and the event community.Practical implicationsEvent marketers and sponsors should take strategic actions to enhance participants' social experience and cultivate social capital, which may help them gain support from the event community irrespective of past experiences with participation.Originality/valueThis study extends Putnam's social capital framework into mass participation sport event context. As an initial effort to quantitatively test the linkage among event participation, social capital and various outcomes, this study offers empirical insights into the role of sport event participation in generating long-term social benefits for event participants.		[Zhou, Ran] Nanjing Univ Finance & Econ, Dept Sport, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Kaplanidou, Kyriaki (Kiki)] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL USA; [Zhou, Ran] Nanjing Univ Finance & Econ, Dept Sport, Nanjing, Peoples R China								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001052674800001	55	Article; Article		
J	Kopplin, Cristopher Siegfried								Sports fashion and sustainability: a perfect match?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	5			891	912		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2023-0078			NOV 2 2023	2023	PurposeSports fashion is marketed showing happiness, physical performance and self-care. Thus, sports fashion brands should see a good fit with sustainability: future orientation, self-care, care for others and going out for a physical experience, oftentimes in nature. On the other hand, sports fashion is regularly made of non-sustainable materials and produced under difficult work conditions. This paper aims to discuss the aforementioned issues.Design/methodology/approachThe paper at hand seeks to investigate sports brands' approach to sustainability by examining their product portfolio and their annual report data, analyzing their status quo and sustainability strategy. A content analysis is conducted employing the brands' annual reports and their online shops as data sources to assess their status quo in terms of sustainability as well as future plans.FindingsResults show that on the ecological side, brands unanimously focus on carbon reduction, organic cotton, recycled polyester, circularity-ready business model innovation and water and toxic waste management. The social aspect may be divided into the focal brand and the supply chain, including similar measures: equality and diversity, the promotion of ethnic and cultural minorities and increased safety and health for workers.Originality/valueThe paper derives development opportunities and pitfalls for sports fashion brands.		[Kopplin, Cristopher Siegfried] Univ Bayreuth, Bayreuth, Germany; [Kopplin, Cristopher Siegfried] Univ Bayreuth, Bayreuth, Germany								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001050302700001	92	Article; Article		
J	O'Brien, Michael J. M.; Heerey, Joshua; Semciw, Adam Ivan; Mechlenburg, Inger; Jacobsen, Julie S.; King, Matthew G.; Scholes, Mark J.; Lawrenson, Peter R.; Crossley, Kay; Agricola, Rintje; Souza, Richard B.; Kemp, Joanne L.								Does hip muscle strength and functional performance differ between football players with and without hip dysplasia?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				64				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.08.002			NOV 2023	2023	Objective: To compare hip muscle strength and functional performance in football players with and without hip dysplasia and investigate if the relationships were modified by sex.Design: Cross-sectional study.Methods: This study compared football players with hip dysplasia (HD group) and without hip dysplasia (control group). Hip muscle strength (Nm/kg) and functional task performance were assessed in both groups. Linear regression with generalized estimating equations were used to assess differences between groups. Sex was assessed as a potential effect modifier.Results: 101 football players were included (HD group, n = 50, control group, n = 51). There was no difference in hip muscle strength or functional performance between the HD group and the control group. Results ranged from hip extension strength (Estimate -0.13.95%CI: 0.29 to 0.02, P = 0.087) to hip external rotation strength (Estimate 0.00.95%CI: 0.05 to 0.05, P = 0.918). No relationships were modified by sex or age.Conclusions: Similar levels of hip muscle strength and functional performance were found in active football players with and without hip dysplasia. These findings differ from other studies. This may be due to our cohort having less advanced hip dysplasia than the surgical populations that have been previously investigated, or due to a beneficial effect of football participation on muscle strength and functional performance in people with hip dysplasia.		[O'Brien, Michael J. M.; Heerey, Joshua; King, Matthew G.; Scholes, Mark J.; Crossley, Kay; Kemp, Joanne L.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sports Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Semciw, Adam Ivan; King, Matthew G.] La Trobe Univ, Dept Physiotherapy Podiatry & Prosthet & Orthot, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Mechlenburg, Inger] Aarhus Univ Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Aarhus, Denmark; [Mechlenburg, Inger] Aarhus Univ, Dept Clin Med, Aarhus, Denmark; [Jacobsen, Julie S.] VIA Univ Coll, Res Ctr Hlth & Welf Technol, Programme Rehabil, Aarhus, Denmark; [Jacobsen, Julie S.] Res Unit Gen Practice, Aarhus, Denmark; [Lawrenson, Peter R.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, St Lucia, Qld, Australia; [Agricola, Rintje] Univ Med Ctr Rotterdam, Erasmus MC, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Med, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Souza, Richard B.] Univ Calif San Francisco, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, San Francisco, CA USA; [O'Brien, Michael J. M.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Plenty Rd & Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [O'Brien, Michael J. M.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Plenty Rd & Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001070975100001	39	Article; Article		
J	Is, Enes Efe; Aydog, Tolga								Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) and Goldman's Dilemma: A Case Report in 42 Year-Old Woman Endurance Athlete								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	3			304	308		10.1080/00913847.2023.2247960			MAY 3 2024	2024	Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) defines insufficient calorie intake for the physiological and athletic functions of the athlete, and accordingly deterioration in the musculoskeletal, hormonal, cardiovascular and immune systems. Herein, we present a 42-year-old female long-distance runner with multiple pelvic stress fractures who didn't complete her prescribed treatment program and wanted to keep running despite being aware of the associated pain and risks. The Goldman dilemma refers to the unsettling reality that a significant number of professional athletes may contemplate sacrificing their lives in order to achieve Olympic glory. This disregard for the numerous challenges stemming from an obsession with success is equally applicable to the amateur athlete depicted in this case. Our patient's fractures were examined in relation to RED-S and managed through conservative treatment methods. The RED-S and Goldman dilemma should be kept in mind not only in professional but also in semi-professional, and amateur athletes.		[Is, Enes Efe] Univ Hlth Sci Turkey, Sisli Hamidiye Etfal Teaching & Res Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Aydog, Tolga] Acibadem Univ, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Fac Med, Istanbul, Turkiye; [Is, Enes Efe] Univ Hlth Sci Turkey, Sisli Hamidiye Etfal Teaching & Res Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Istanbul, Turkiye								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001049137200001	22	Article; Article		
J	Calapez, Andre; Ribeiro, Tiago; Almeida, Victor; Pedragosa, Vera								Esports fan identity toward sponsor-sponsee relationship: an understanding of the role-based identity								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	1			42	66		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2023-0030			JAN 19 2024	2024	PurposeDespite to useful relevance to better understand how group-level identity develops, few studies have explored the identity theory in the esports field and, in particular, considering the impact of a fan's role identity. The current study aims to explore esports fan role-identity vis-a-vis the relationship with the sponsor and the sponsee so as to understand the effects on their behavioral intentions.Design/methodology/approachUsing a sample of 356 esports fans who attended the 2021 FPF eFootball Open Challenge, a Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA) analyzed the psychometric properties of the constructs and a subsequent Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) examined the effects of fan identity on two types of behavioral intentions and sponsor-sponsee relationship.FindingsResults indicate that fans who highly identify with esports have the highest attachment to the event and tend toward having a positive word-of-mouth intention. Esports fans who have a higher brand identification reported a positive attitude toward the event's sponsor brand and tend to purchase its products. Moreover, the study findings also provide evidence of the bidirectional interaction between the way in which fans attach with the esports event and its sponsor brand, leading to greater reciprocity in their identity formation.Originality/valueThis study helps to understand how the fan identity process can enhance its fate and develop mutually, building role overlapping identity in the esports sponsor-sponsee relationship. Complementarily, it supports of how the marketeers and managers must analyze the importance of being a fan to the individual in order to understand how its self-identity can shape the future behavior.		[Calapez, Andre; Ribeiro, Tiago] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Tiago] UAlg CinTurs, Faro, Portugal; [Almeida, Victor] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Grad Sch, COPPEAD, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Pedragosa, Vera] Autonomous Univ Lisbon, Dept Econ & Business Sci, Lisbon, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Tiago] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Tiago] UAlg CinTurs, Faro, Portugal								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001048297800001	84	Article; Article		
J	Worrall, Hannah; Podvin, Caroline; Althoff, Claire; Chung, Jane S. S.; Sugimoto, Dai; Stokes, Mathew; Radel, Luke C.; Cullum, Munro C.; Miller, Shane M.; Jones, Jacob C.								Position comparison of sport-related concussions in female youth soccer players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	4			325	332		10.1080/00913847.2023.2246869			JUL 3 2024	2024	ObjectivesYouth soccer participation, particularly among females, continues to grow worldwide. With the high incidence of sport-related concussion (SRC) in soccer, it is important to investigate if SRC occurs disproportionally by positions. Our hypothesis was to see no positional differences in SRCs, SRC-related characteristics, and outcomes among in female youth soccer athletes.MethodsData were prospectively collected from participants at a single sports medicine institution between August 2015-April 2021. Female participants aged 8-18 diagnosed with SRC sustained during an organized soccer practice, scrimmage, or game were separated into 4 groups based on position: Forward, Midfielder, Defender, and Goalkeeper. Demographics, medical history, injury-related details, and outcomes were reviewed. A chi-square test or Fisher's exact test was used for categorical variables. Continuous variables were compared with Mann-Whitney or Kruskal-Wallis test.ResultsTwo hundred fourteen participants were included: 52 Forwards, 65 Midfielders, 63 Defenders, and 34 Goalkeepers. There were no significant differences between the groups in age, race, ethnicity, or previous concussion history. Differences in mechanism existed with Goalkeepers most commonly reporting Head to Body Part. Goalkeepers, which make up 1/11 of the total positions on the field, had a significantly higher proportion of SRCs compared to Field Positions. (9.1% vs 15.9%)At 3-month post-enrollment, there were no significant differences in reported symptoms or return-to-play between the different positions.ConclusionIn youth female soccer players, goalkeepers sustained a higher proportion of sport-related concussions compared to field players based upon the composition of a soccer team. The mechanism of injury also differed among the different soccer positions. However, no differences in concussion characteristics, outcomes, or RTP were seen across the different soccer positions.		[Worrall, Hannah; Podvin, Caroline; Althoff, Claire; Chung, Jane S. S.; Stokes, Mathew; Miller, Shane M.; Jones, Jacob C.] Scottish Rite Children, Dept Orthoped & Sports Med, Frisco, TX 75034 USA; [Chung, Jane S. S.; Stokes, Mathew; Cullum, Munro C.; Miller, Shane M.; Jones, Jacob C.] UT Southwestern Med Ctr, Dallas, TX USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Waseda Univ, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Radel, Luke C.] Mayo Clin, Dept Pediat, Rochester, MN USA; [Jones, Jacob C.] Scottish Rite Children, Dept Orthoped & Sports Med, Frisco, TX 75034 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001048213700001	38	Article; Article		
J	Nowak, Andrew S.; Miro, Emily W.; Eby, Sarah F.; Cushman, Daniel M.								Identification of pre-race ultrasonographic abnormalities of the Achilles tendon and association with future injuries in runners								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	3			299	303		10.1080/00913847.2023.2246179			MAY 3 2024	2024	ObjectiveTo determine if specific morphological changes in ultrasonographic images of Achilles tendons are associated with the development of pain in distance runners.MethodsThis study is a blinded, retrospective analysis of 276 Achilles tendon ultrasound images, which were used to determine if specific morphologic findings could positively or negatively predict future Achilles tendon pain development in distance runners. Pre-race ultrasound scans were performed on 138 asymptomatic half- and full marathon runners (276 tendons in total) who were followed for 12 months after their races. Specific patterns of morphologic abnormality were identified (location, size, and appearance of ultrasound abnormality within the tendon). Sonographic findings were blindly assessed by a medical student, a resident, and a physician who has significant sonographic imaging experience. These specific abnormalities were then compared to those who later did or did not develop tendon pain.ResultsThree findings were found to have significant odds of association with the development of pain: 1) focal deep midsubstance intratendinous hypoechogenicity, 2) focal superficial midsubstance intratendinous hypoechogenicity, and 3) linear hyperechogenicity extending into middle of tendon from calcaneus.ConclusionThese results suggest that the aforementioned specific morphologic abnormalities in the Achilles tendon may be associated with the future development of pain symptoms in distance runners in this cohort. Looking for these specific abnormalities may increase the specificity of identifying precursors to Achilles tendon pain development.		[Nowak, Andrew S.] Cent Michigan Univ, Coll Med, Mt Pleasant, MI USA; [Miro, Emily W.] Univ Utah, Dept Family & Prevent Med, Salt Lake City, UT USA; [Eby, Sarah F.] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Boston, MA USA; [Cushman, Daniel M.] Univ Utah, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA; [Cushman, Daniel M.] Univ Utah, Dept Orthopaed, Salt Lake City, UT USA; [Cushman, Daniel M.] Univ Utah, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001045389600001	22	Article; Article		
J	Yoshida, Naruto; Miyazaki, Shogo; Waki, Hideaki; Minakawa, Yoichi; Koido, Masaaki; Mashimo, Sonoko								Health status of university football athletes through multidimensional screening								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	3			291	298		10.1080/00913847.2023.2246178			MAY 3 2024	2024	ObjectiveAdequate conditioning results from various physical, environmental, and psychological factors in sports activities. In this study, we aimed to clarify the concurrence and relevance of injuries, psychological problems, and sleep disturbance in university football (soccer) players. Biomechanical characteristics and risk factors for those injuries were also investigated.MethodsOverall, 1,084 university football players participated in this cross-sectional study using a web-based health history questionnaire. Assessments were made via the presence of injuries for physical problems, the Athlete Psychological Strain Questionnaire (APSQ) for psychologicalproblems, and the Athlete Sleep Screening Questionnaire (ASSQ) for sleep difficulties.ResultsThere were 200 (19%) athletes with injuries; 413 (38%) of these were APSQ-positive, 246 (23%) were ASSQ-positive, and 468 (43%) athletes had no physical, psychological, or sleep problems. APSQ-positive respondents were significantly more likely to have a current injury than those who were APSQ-negative. No significant difference was observed between the number of ASSQ-positive and -negative respondents and current injuries. Those with sleep problems were significantly more likely to have psychological problems.ConclusionMore than 60% of university football players had one or more physical, psychological, or sleep problems. Players may have co-occurring problems, and it is important to address them for these athletes to reach peak performance.		[Yoshida, Naruto] Rikkyo Univ, Dept Sport & Wellness, Saitama, Japan; [Yoshida, Naruto; Miyazaki, Shogo; Waki, Hideaki; Minakawa, Yoichi] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Hlth Care, Dept Acupuncture & Moxibust, Tokyo, Japan; [Koido, Masaaki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Mashimo, Sonoko] Osaka Electrocommun Univ, Inst Liberal Arts & Sci, Neyagawa, Osaka, Japan; [Yoshida, Naruto] Rikkyo Univ, Dept Sport & Wellness, 1-2-26 Kitano, Niizashi, Saitama 3528558, Japan; [Yoshida, Naruto] Rikkyo Univ, Dept Sport & Wellness, 1-2-26 Kitano, Niizashi, Saitama 3528558, Japan								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001044906100001	57	Article; Article		
J	Tamujo, Augusto Camillo; Flores, Hebert Nunes; Cetolin, Tiago; Ribeiro-Alvares, Joao Breno; Haupenthal, Alessandro; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini								Creatine kinase concentration on the second post-match day is not associated with risk of subsequent muscle injury in professional football players: a four-season cohort study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	3			271	276		10.1080/00913847.2023.2246175			MAY 3 2024	2024	ObjectiveThe objective of this study was to examine the relationship between creatine kinase (CK) concentration following official matches and the risk of subsequent muscle injury in professional male football (soccer) players.MethodsBlood samples were collected on the second post-match day for CK analysis over four consecutive seasons in a professional football club. Players were then followed for five days to observe any occurrence of indirect muscle injury (structural or functional in nature). Players exposed to at least 45 minutes in two consecutive matches within seven days were considered valid cases for analysis.ResultsEighty players participated in the study, generating 1,656 cases eligible for analysis, of which 229 resulted in muscle injuries. The hamstrings were the most frequently injured muscle group (54%), followed by the adductor (21%), triceps surae (19%), quadriceps (5%), and psoas (1%). While CK concentration was higher in muscle injury cases [783 & PLUSMN; 507 U/L (95%CI, 717 to 849; min-max, 105-2,800)] compared with uninjured cases [688 & PLUSMN; 446 U/L (95%CI, 665 to 711; min-max, 100-2,950)], it was not an accurate predictor of subsequent muscle injury risk in professional football players (sensitivity = 56%; specificity = 55%; odds ratio = 1.00; area under curve = 0.557).ConclusionCK concentration on the second post-match day cannot be used to effectively screen subsequent muscle injury risk in professional male football players.		[Tamujo, Augusto Camillo; Flores, Hebert Nunes; Ribeiro-Alvares, Joao Breno; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Cetolin, Tiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Grad Program Neurosci, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Haupenthal, Alessandro] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Ararangua, SC, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Univ Fed Ciencias Saude Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Rua Sarmento Leite 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Univ Fed Ciencias Saude Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Rua Sarmento Leite 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001045335800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Robaina, Bruno de Quadros; Medeiros, Diulian Muniz; Roberti, Lucas de Souza; Franke, Rodrigo de Azevedo; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini								The Single Leg Bridge Test does not replace handheld dynamometer hamstring tests in a clinical setting								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				63				126	131		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.08.001			SEP 2023	2023	Objective: To examine the correlation of Single Leg Bridge Test (SLBT) scores with maximum isometric strength values obtained in handheld dynamometer (HHD) hamstring tests performed in a clinical setting. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Physical therapy clinic. Participants: Fifty healthy and physically active men. Main outcome measures: Correlation between SLBT scores and force values found in three HHD hamstring tests: test 'A', volunteer in prone with hip in neutral position and the knee flexed at similar to 90(degrees); test 'B', volunteer in supine with hip and knee flexed at similar to 90(degrees) and test 'C', volunteer in the same position used to perform the SLBT. Results: The volunteers' SLBT score was 27.55 +/- 7.81 repetitions. The SLBT scores were poorly associated with mean (r = 0.246) and peak (r = 0.321) results provided by HHD test 'A'. There were no significant correlations between the SLBT scores and mean or peak values obtained in tests 'B' and 'C' (p > 0.05). Similarly, the SLBT between-limb asymmetry was not associated with asymmetries found in HHD hamstring tests (p > 0.05). Conclusions: HHD hamstring tests should not be replaced by the SLBT. We recommend for clinicians to applying such tests in a complementary way to assess the hamstring's functional status.		[Robaina, Bruno de Quadros; Medeiros, Diulian Muniz; Roberti, Lucas de Souza; Franke, Rodrigo de Azevedo; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Porto Alegre, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Univ Fed Ciencias Saude Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Sarmento Leite St 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Univ Fed Ciencias Saude Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Sarmento Leite St 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001061594000001	29	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, Gina M. M.; Wild, Jacob T. T.; Burgess, Jamie K. K.; McCracken, Kristi; Malekian, Sina; Turner, Jacqueline A. A.; King, Kiana; Kwon, Soyang; Carl, Rebecca L. L.; LaBella, Cynthia R. R.								Assessment of post-concussion emotional symptom load using PCSS and PROMIS instruments in pediatric patients								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	3			253	261		10.1080/00913847.2023.2239159			MAY 3 2024	2024	Objectives: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the utility of the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) anxiety and depressive symptom domains in conjunction with the Post-Concussion Symptom Scale (PCSS)for identifying pediatric patients with emotional symptoms following a concussion, and to identify predictors of higher emotional symptom loads. Methods: We recruited English-speaking patients aged 8-17 years presenting to a tertiary-care concussion clinic from 2014 to 2018 (n = 458). Demographics and clinical data including PCSS, injury date, previous history of anxiety/depression, and Vestibular/Ocular-Motor Screen (VOMS) were collected from patients' electronic medical records. Participants completed surveys in the PROMIS (TM) Pediatric Item Bank v1.1-Anxiety and Depressive Symptoms domains at their initial clinic visit. Multivariable linear regression identified predictors of higher emotional symptom loads. Results: Overall, 425 (92.8%) reported >= 1 emotional symptom on either PROMIS or PCSS. Predictors of higher emotional symptom loads were abnormal VOMS, female sex, history of anxiety or depression, and longer time since injury. Conclusion: Our results suggest that adding PROMIS anxiety and depressive symptom surveys to pediatric concussion evaluations may identify more children with emotional symptoms, allowing clinicians to better direct post-concussion treatment and incorporate psychological support for patients if necessary. Future studies should examine whether earlier identification of emotional symptoms with these tools facilitates recovery and improves short- and/or long-term psychological outcomes in pediatric concussion.		[Johnson, Gina M. M.; Wild, Jacob T. T.; Burgess, Jamie K. K.; McCracken, Kristi; Malekian, Sina; Turner, Jacqueline A. A.; King, Kiana; Kwon, Soyang; Carl, Rebecca L. L.; LaBella, Cynthia R. R.] Ann & Robert H Lurie Childrens Hosp Chicago, Div Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, 225 East Chicago Ave,Box 69, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Johnson, Gina M. M.] Ann & Robert H Lurie Childrens Hosp Chicago, Div Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, 225 East Chicago Ave,Box 69, Chicago, IL 60611 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001044929600001	59	Article; Article		
J	Giakas, Julian A.; Israel, Heidi A.; Ali, Ashley H.; Kaar, Scott G.								Does the addition of post-operative gabapentin reduce the use of narcotics after orthopedic surgery?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	3			283	290		10.1080/00913847.2023.2246177			MAY 3 2024	2024	ObjectivesTo evaluate the efficacy of post-operative gabapentin administration as an analgesic agent and its effect on narcotic use after orthopedic surgery in an outpatient sports medicine practice by comparing patients prior to and after initiating the routine use of gabapentin as part of a standardized post-operative pain medication regimen. We hypothesized that adding gabapentin to a multimodal post-operative pain regimen would decrease the number of requested pain medication refills and have no detrimental effect on Visual Analogue Scale and Single Assessment Numerical Evaluation scores at these early post-operative visits.MethodsAll outpatient surgical patients, <90 years of age, undergoing outpatient orthopedic surgery by the study's senior author were included between 08/05/2021 and 02/22/2022. Patients were allowed 1 narcotic refill post-operatively and only in the first 3 weeks. The primary outcome was difference in percentage of patients who requested a narcotic refill within 3 weeks post-op. Two- and 6-week Visual Analogue Scale and Single Assessment Numerical Evaluation scores, and baseline health and demographic data. T-tests were run on continuous variables, Chi-Square or Fisher's Exact Test were run on dichotomous variables, and Mann-Whitney U test was run on all other categorical variables. Statistical significance was set at P < .05 for all tests.ResultsThere was a significant difference in narcotic refills at 3 weeks: 23 pre-gabapentin patients and 9 post-gabapentin patients (22.8% vs 9.0%, respectively: P = .006). There were no differences between 2- and 6-week Visual Analogue Scale and 2-week Single Assessment Numerical Evaluation scores. There was a significant difference in 6-week SANE between groups: mean difference = 6.4 (P = .027) though less than the established MCID.ConclusionAddition of gabapentin to a post-operative multimodal pain regimen reduced the use of narcotics after orthopedic sports medicine surgeries while also providing equivalent pain control.		[Giakas, Julian A.] St Louis Univ, Sch Med, St Louis, MO 63110 USA; [Israel, Heidi A.; Ali, Ashley H.; Kaar, Scott G.] St Louis Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Div Sports Med & Shoulder Surg, Sch Med, St Louis, MO 63110 USA; [Kaar, Scott G.] St Louis Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Sch Med, 1008 S Spring Ave,First Floor, St Louis, MO 63110 USA; [Kaar, Scott G.] St Louis Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Sch Med, 1008 S Spring Ave,First Floor, St Louis, MO 63110 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001047947200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Hill, Megan; John, Thomas; McGee, Darragh; Cumming, Sean P.								Beyond the coaches eye: Understanding the 'how' and 'why' of maturity selection biases in male academy soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			1913	1928		10.1177/17479541231186673			DEC 2023	2023	This study explored academy football coaches' perceptions and experiences of managing individual differences in the maturity timing of male adolescent football players in an English Premier League academy. Using a longitudinal mixed method design, 98 under 12-16 players were assessed for maturity status, growth velocities, and match performance grade. Interviews with nine respective coaches were conducted in parallel. The qualitative and quantitative data were combined to generate a contextualised richer understanding and four archetypal case studies. Findings showed coaches perceive various advantages and disadvantages to players maturing either ahead or in the delay of their peers and had different expectations of performance based upon a players maturity status; biological maturity status and timing had large implications for selection and release decisions. This study highlights the challenges of developing, managing and selecting adolescent players in elite male youth football. Biological maturation confounds talent identification and development, and academy environments need to monitor maturity status and educate coaches and selectors on the complexities and intricacies of individual differences in maturity timing.		[Hill, Megan] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [John, Thomas] Southampton Football Club, Dept Sports Sci & Med, Southampton, England; [McGee, Darragh; Cumming, Sean P.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Hill, Megan] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, England; [Hill, Megan] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, England								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001043437500001	64	Article; Article		
J	Zamboni, Francesco; Ferrari, Pietro; Cazzoletti, Lucia; Setti, Angela; Bertoldo, Francesco; Dalle Carbonare, Luca G. G.; Danese, Elisa; Tardivo, Stefano; Crisafulli, Ernesto; Ferrari, Marcello								Bone Mineral Density in Mountain, Road Cyclists and Untrained Controls: Exercise, Diet and Hormones								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			423	430		10.1080/02701367.2023.2242417			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The aim of the study was to compare bone mineral density (BMD) in the lumbar spine (LSBMD) and the femoral neck (F-BMD) in male road cyclists (RC n = 39), mountain cyclists (MC n = 30) and controls (C n = 27) and to determine the factors associated with BMD in the same group of participants. Methods: BMD, fat mass (FM) and fat-free mass (FFM) were measured using DXA. Calcium intake (Cal), exercise energy expenditure (EEE) and energy availability (EA) were assessed using self-reported questionnaires. Samples for circulating hormones were also obtained. VO2max was estimated by a cycloergometric test. Results: After adjustment for body mass, in cyclists LSBMD (RC 0.98 & PLUSMN; 0.12; MC 0.98 & PLUSMN; 0.10 g/cm(2)) was significantly lower than in C (1.11 & PLUSMN; 0.10; p < .001), while F-BMD resulted in no significant difference in cyclists compared to C (p = 0.213). EA (kcal/FFM/day) was different in cyclists and in C (p < .05). In C, EEE and EA were positively associated with LSBMD (R = 0.561, R = 0.656, respectively, p < .01), whereas only EA was associated with F-BMD (R = 0.554, p < .05); a positive association between EA and F-BMD was found in MC (R = 0.464, p < .05). A negative relationship between VO2max and LSBMD in RC (R = -0.418, p < .05) and a positive one between EEE and LSBMD in MC were found (R = 0.605, p < .001). CaI, free testosterone and cortisol were unrelated to BMD. Conclusion: Both the RC and MC had lower LSBMD than C, whereas no difference was found between the two groups of cyclists. The factors associated with BMD are manifold, vary in relation to the measurement site and are likely different in RC, MC and C.		[Zamboni, Francesco; Ferrari, Pietro; Cazzoletti, Lucia; Setti, Angela; Bertoldo, Francesco; Dalle Carbonare, Luca G. G.; Danese, Elisa; Tardivo, Stefano; Crisafulli, Ernesto; Ferrari, Marcello] Univ Verona, Verona, Italy; [Zamboni, Francesco] Univ Verona, Sch Med Sports & Exercise, Dept Med, Piazzale L A Scuro 10, I-37124 Verona, Italy; [Zamboni, Francesco] Univ Verona, Sch Med Sports & Exercise, Dept Med, Piazzale L A Scuro 10, I-37124 Verona, Italy								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001040786900001	51	Article; Article		
J	West, Thomas J.; Bruder, Andrea M.; Crossley, Kay M.; Girdwood, Michael A.; Scholes, Mark J.; To, Laura K.; Couch, Jamon L.; Evans, Sebastian C. S.; Haberfield, Melissa J.; Barton, Christian J.; Roos, Ewa M.; De Livera, Alysha; Culvenor, Adam G.								Does the one-leg rise test reflect quadriceps strength in individuals following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				63				104	111		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.07.008			SEP 2023	2023	Objective: To explore if one-leg rise test performance is associated with quadriceps strength following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional. Participants: 100 individuals (50 females, 50 males) aged 18-40 years, 9-36 months post-ACLR with ongoing knee symptoms (KOOS4 <80/100). Main outcome measures: Number of one-leg rise repetitions (using an adjustable-height plinth) and isometric quadriceps strength using isokinetic dynamometry (60 degrees flexion, normalised to body mass). Multivariable fractional polynomial regression models adjusted for sex explored relationships between one-leg rise performance (repetitions) and quadriceps strength (Nm/kg) for each limb. Results: A non-linear, increasing association between one-leg rise performance and quadriceps strength was observed, with the rate of increase attenuating at higher values of one-leg rise performance. Similar relationships were observed in the ACLR (beta = 0.15, 95%CI 0.10 to 0.20; adjusted r(2) = 0.51) and contralateral limb (beta = 0.14, 95%CI 0.08 to 0.19; r2 = 0.42). Conclusion: The one-leg rise test can be an indicator of quadriceps strength in individuals after ACLR, enabling clinicians to easily monitor quadriceps strength recovery without specialised equipment. With the relationship between one-leg rise performance and quadriceps strength attenuating with a larger number of one-leg rises achieved, other factors (e.g., motivation, endurance) likely contribute to one-leg rise performance at higher values.		[West, Thomas J.; Bruder, Andrea M.; Crossley, Kay M.; Girdwood, Michael A.; Scholes, Mark J.; To, Laura K.; Couch, Jamon L.; Evans, Sebastian C. S.; Haberfield, Melissa J.; Barton, Christian J.; Culvenor, Adam G.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Australia; [Couch, Jamon L.] Arthrit Res Canada, Coquitlam, BC, Canada; [Roos, Ewa M.] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Odense, Denmark; [De Livera, Alysha] La Trobe Univ, Sch Comp Engn & Math Sci, Math & Stat, Bundoora 3086, Australia; [De Livera, Alysha] Baker Heart & Diabet Inst, Melbourne 3004, Australia; [De Livera, Alysha] Univ Melbourne, Sch Populat & Global Hlth, Melbourne 3010, Australia; [Culvenor, Adam G.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Culvenor, Adam G.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001053142900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Barrenetxea-Garcia, Josu; Nuell, Sergi; Garai, Susana; Murua-Ruiz, Antxon; Mielgo-Ayuso, Juan; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio; de Villarreal, Eduardo Saez								Effect of Foam Roll recovery method on performance in water polo players: a randomized controlled trial								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	3			262	270		10.1080/00913847.2023.2240274			MAY 3 2024	2024	ObjectivesThis intervention study aimed to evaluate how the use of Foam Roller (FR) as a recovery strategy affects water polo performance after a seven-week (28-session) program.DesignA randomized controlled trial.MethodsThirty water polo players (14 male amateur players and 16 female sub-elite players) were assigned by means of sealed opaque envelopes to the control group (CG) or Foam Roller Group (FRG) and performed the same total number and intensity of training sessions. Test protocols were performed before (pretest), in-test (week 5), and after the intervention period (posttest). These included water polo-specific performance tests such as in-water boost, throwing speed, and 20 m sprint swimming tests. In addition, during the intervention, heart rate (HR), the scale of perceived exertion of the session (sRPE), and total quality recovery scale (TQR) data were recorded.ResultsThere were no differences in the baseline values in any of the variables analyzed between CG and FRG. A small decrease in in-water boost was observed in CG (-2%, ES = -0.35 [-0.95: 0.26], p = 0.016, very likely small) and in FRG (-2%, ES = -0.33 [-0.93: 0.27], p = 0.021, likely small). No significant changes were found in either the 20 m swim test or the throwing test in CG and FRG. No clear differences among groups and weeks were found in sRPE, TQR and HR.ConclusionThe findings indicate that the use of FR as a recovery tool after training and matches is not useful in water polo players.		[Barrenetxea-Garcia, Josu] Water Polo Club Leioa Waterpolo, Leioa, Spain; [Nuell, Sergi] Univ Girona, Sport Performance Dept, Escola Univ Salut Esport EUSES, Girona, Spain; [Garai, Susana] Sopelana Primary Care Unit, Uribe Integrated Hlth Org, Sopelana, Spain; [Murua-Ruiz, Antxon; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Mielgo-Ayuso, Juan] Univ Burgos, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Zagreb, Croatia; [de Villarreal, Eduardo Saez] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance Sports Res Ctr PPSRC, Seville, Spain; [Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Portal Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Portal Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001038638200001	55	Article; Article		
J	Thomas, Staci M. M.; Beasley, Katie F. F.; Rodriguez-MacClintic, Jennifer C. C.; Collins, Sara; Myer, Gregory D. D.; Kashikar-Zuck, Susmita								Conversion From In-Person to Remote Delivery of Neuromuscular Training to Treat Chronic Pain in Adolescents								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	4			439	449		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000759			AUG 2023	2023	Juvenile fibromyalgia (JFM) is a chronic, disabling, and widespread musculoskeletal pain condition accompanied by many comorbid symptoms. Current guidelines recommend multidisciplinary care, including physical therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). Regular aerobic training and strengthening exercises are useful in treating fibromyalgia and are often recommended under the care of trained professionals. In 2020, COVID-19 caused nationwide disruption in health care, requiring health care practices to allow for treatment through telehealth platforms. The Fibromyalgia Integrative Training (FIT Teens) program used in-person, group-based CBT combined with neuromuscular training (NMT) for adolescents with fibromyalgia and suspended treatment sessions under COVID-19 restrictions. The behavioral and exercise components were converted to a remotely delivered program to maintain treatment options. This article reviews the process of modifying the NMT protocol, including practical and clinical considerations, and highlights the benefits and limitations of remote delivery. The remote NMT program maintains the principal components of the in-person program and allows continued access to treatment during the pandemic. Many aspects of health care that have been converted to telehealth may likely offer these types of treatment in the future. Hence, the learnings of the FIT Teens project may be useful in designing future remote exercise interventions.		[Thomas, Staci M. M.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Div Sports Med, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA; [Beasley, Katie F. F.; Kashikar-Zuck, Susmita] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp & Med Ctr, Div Behav Med & Clin Psychol, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Rodriguez-MacClintic, Jennifer C. C.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Ctr Mot Anal, Dept Phys Therapy, Hartford, CT USA; [Collins, Sara; Myer, Gregory D. D.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Myer, Gregory D. D.] Sports Performance & Res Ctr SPARC, Flowery Branch, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D. D.] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Atlanta, GA USA; [Myer, Gregory D. D.] Emory Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Sch Med, Atlanta, GA USA; [Kashikar-Zuck, Susmita] Univ Cincinnati, Coll Med, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Thomas, Staci M. M.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Div Sports Med, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001042888900005	19	Article; Article		
J	Valcarce-Merayo, Eduardo; Latella, Christopher								Precompetition Strategies to Improve Performance in Endurance or Repeated Intermittent Activity: Evidence and Practical Suggestions								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	4			450	461		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000753			AUG 2023	2023	Athletes engage in training programs that develop physical and physiological attributes to improve performance over time. However, ensuring athletes are optimally prepared just before competition is also of utmost importance. Indeed, such approaches may often adopt 1 or more strategies in the days, hours, and minutes preceding competition, including exercise priming, active warm-up, and/or postactivation performance-enhancing (PAPE) activities. Despite a plethora of discrete research, such information seems poorly synthesized, making it difficult for coaches and athletes to implement optimal evidence-based physical preparation approaches in many sporting contexts. This article aims to provide a scoping overview of evidence, facilitate discussion, and where possible, propose practical exercise-based recommendations that may be useful leading up to (& SIM;48 hours-& SIM;1 minute) tasks with a short or prolonged endurance component or requiring repeated intermittent efforts (e.g., team-based field sports). Well-timed and -designed activities can facilitate several aspects of physical performance, potentially improve athletes' psychological state(s) and mental preparedness. The benefits of a warm-up are most well-documented, but priming and PAPE strategies also warrant consideration. It is intended that the evidence and suggestions presented will be useful for strength and conditioning professionals preparing athletes for competition.		[Valcarce-Merayo, Eduardo] Aspire Acad Sports Excellence, Dept Sport Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Latella, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Neurophysiol Res Lab, Joondalup, Australia; [Latella, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Latella, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Neurophysiol Res Lab, Joondalup, Australia; [Latella, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001042888900006	74	Article; Article		
J	Maloney, Sean J.								Engage, Enthuse, Empower: A Framework for Promoting Self-Sufficiency in Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	4			486	497		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000754			AUG 2023	2023	The coach-athlete relationship is foundational to the success of the strength and conditioning (S & C) program. By better understanding and applying psychosocial principles, the S & C coach can augment their impact on performance. However, coaches should seek to look beyond just performance. This article aims to put forward the case for a novel philosophical coaching framework that emphasizes the development of autonomy and self-sufficiency in athletes. Autonomous, self-sufficient athletes are likely to be more resilient, perform to a higher level, and be better prepared for life after competitive sport. It is proposed that the "Three E's" are the foundational components of this novel framework. (a) Engage athletes by promoting active involvement, providing an appropriate challenge, and understanding their values. (b) Enthuse athletes by promoting positive affect, setting them up to experience success, and facilitating positive social interaction. (c) Empower athletes by promoting autonomy, periodizing self-government of their program, and providing the rationale to explain recommendations or prescriptions. The framework's objectives are to maximize athletes' internal drive, help athletes understand the basic principles of S & C, and encourage athletes to make positive behavioral choices.		[Maloney, Sean J.] Maloney Performance, Milton Keynes, England; [Maloney, Sean J.] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Maloney, Sean J.] Maloney Performance, Milton Keynes, England; [Maloney, Sean J.] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001042888900010	100	Article; Article		
J	Joffe, Shaun A.; Price, Phil; Chavda, Shyam; Shaw, Joseph; Tallent, Jamie								The Relationship of Lower-Body, Multijoint, Isometric and Dynamic Neuromuscular Assessment Variables With Snatch, and Clean and Jerk Performance in Competitive Weightlifters: A Meta-Analysis								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	4			411	428		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000755			AUG 2023	2023	The purpose of this meta-analysis was to synthesize the literature and provide a robust estimate of the correlations between lower-body, multijoint, isometric and dynamic neuromuscular assessment variables and snatch (SN) and clean and jerk (C & J) performance in competitive weightlifters. A comprehensive search through 3 electronic databases (PubMed, SPORTDiscus, and Web of Science) returned 12 studies that met the inclusion criteria. Meta-analyses were performed on Pearson's correlations between SN and C & J performance and 15 variables from 5 neuromuscular assessments-countermovement jump (CMJ), squat jump (SJ), isometric midthigh pull (IMTP), back squat (BS), and front squat (FS) one repetition maximum (1RM). The FS and BS 1RM exhibited nearly perfect correlations (r = 0.93 to 0.94), whereas the IMTP peak force exhibited very large correlations (r = 0.83 to 0.85). The IMTP force at 250 ms exhibited very large correlations (r = 0.77 to 0.78), and the CMJ and SJ peak power exhibited very large to nearly perfect correlations (r = 0.88 to 0.92). These findings illustrate the importance of lower-body maximal and time-limited force-producing capabilities in weightlifters. Moreover, each assessment offers at least one variable that exhibits a correlation of >0.70. Therefore, these assessments may be used to gauge weightlifting performance potential.		[Joffe, Shaun A.; Price, Phil; Shaw, Joseph] St Marys Univ, Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, Twickenham, England; [Chavda, Shyam] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Shaw, Joseph] Royal Ballet, Ballet Healthcare, Royal Opera House, London, England; [Tallent, Jamie] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, England; [Tallent, Jamie] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy, Clayton, Australia; [Joffe, Shaun A.] St Marys Univ, Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, Twickenham, England								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:001042888900003	67	Article; Article		
J	DeWeese, Brad H. H.; Hamilton, Dave K. K.; Huls, Shaun; Peterson, Ben J. J.; Rath, Ted; Althoff, Andrew								Clarifying High Performance and the Role, Responsibilities, and Requisite Attributes of the High-Performance Director in American Professional Sport								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	4			429	438		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000763			AUG 2023	2023	North American professional sport continues to evolve by adopting robust performance development strategies that place a premium on player care and competitive readiness. These strategies can be demonstrated by the increase of clubs implementing high-performance departments to maximize service quality rendered to rostered players. Although this transition to an integrated approach to player care is appreciated, it has become evident that there is a need to clarify the role, responsibilities, and job demands of high-performance directors. This emerging executive position is charged with leading complex systems of intertwined departments through the development of an environment that fosters a transdisciplinary approach to athlete preparation and care through enhanced organizational communication and the reduction of disciplinary silos that can thwart collaboration. Therefore, the current article describes the high-performance environment, allowing for a more accurate definition and representation of a modern high-performance director. The current article relies on the authors' collective experience as current professional-sport high-performance leaders to provide meaningful recommendations and insight into the field.		[DeWeese, Brad H. H.] New York Jets, Athlet Care & Performance Dept, Florham Pk, NJ 07932 USA; [Hamilton, Dave K. K.] Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Performance Sci, Tampa, FL USA; [Huls, Shaun] Cleveland Browns, High Performance, Berea, OH USA; [Peterson, Ben J. J.] San Francisco 49ers, Player Hlth & Performance Dept, Santa Clara, CA USA; [Rath, Ted] Philadelphia Eagles, Player Performance, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Althoff, Andrew] Carolina Panthers, Human Performance, Charlotte, NC USA; [DeWeese, Brad H. H.] New York Jets, Athlet Care & Performance Dept, Florham Pk, NJ 07932 USA								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:001042888900004	32	Article; Article		
J	Orr, Robin M.; Lockie, Robert; Saari, Anssi; Paavola, Tommi; Muhlbauer, Dagmar; Dawes, Jay								Load Carriage for Emergency Responders								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	4			475	480		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000768			AUG 2023	2023	Search and rescue (SAR) personnel may be required to wear and carry external loads during a task. These external loads may be carried in austere environments across unpredictable terrain. Like other tactical occupations (military, law enforcement, fire, and rescue), SAR loads can range from & GE;20 to 45 kg. Not only are these loads known to cause a variety of injuries to the musculoskeletal, integumentary, and neurological systems of the carrier, but these loads are also known to impede task performance and have ultimately led to mission failure. Ensuring personnel are physically capable of carrying external loads on tasks is critical to mitigating these potential risks of injury and performance decrements. Optimal load carriage conditioning, following the known frequency, intensity, time, and type of training formula would see SAR personnel conduct a load carriage specific session every 7 to 14 days, with load weights, walking speeds, and durations akin to those typical of their SAR requirements. The terrain types (inclusive of grade and nature of terrain) should likewise form part of this conditioning process. In addition to load carriage-specific sessions, improving strength (notably relative strength) and aerobic fitness should also optimize the load carriage conditioning of SAR personnel.		[Orr, Robin M.; Lockie, Robert; Dawes, Jay] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Gold Coast, Australia; [Orr, Robin M.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Lockie, Robert] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA USA; [Saari, Anssi] KIHU, Finnish Inst High Performance Sport, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Paavola, Tommi] New Jersey Search & Rescue, Mahwah, NJ USA; [Muhlbauer, Dagmar] Durban Univ Technol, Dept Emergency Med Care & Rescue, Durban, KwaZulu Natal, South Africa; [Dawes, Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK USA; [Orr, Robin M.] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Gold Coast, Australia; [Orr, Robin M.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001042888900008	57	Article; Article		
J	Grgic, Jozo								No Pain, No Gain? Examining the Influence of Ibuprofen Consumption on Muscle Hypertrophy								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	4			481	485		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000747			AUG 2023	2023	This article aims to provide an overview of the effects of ibuprofen ingestion on muscle hypertrophy and determine factors that may moderate its effect. Currently, only 2 studies reported that ibuprofen has a differential effect from placebo on muscle hypertrophy. One study reported that 1,200 mg of ibuprofen augments muscle hypertrophy in older adults. Another study found that the same dose of ibuprofen attenuated muscle hypertrophy in young adults. These contrasting findings are likely explained by the differences in inflammatory levels between the age groups. Older adults generally have higher levels of inflammation, which is why an anti-inflammatory medication might have contributed to muscle hypertrophy. Studies that used lower doses of ibuprofen, such as 400 mg, did not report a negative or positive effect of ibuprofen use. More importantly, the modulating effects of ibuprofen on muscle hypertrophy should be currently considered preliminary because they have not yet been replicated. Meta-analytical data also did not find a significant difference between the effects of placebo and ibuprofen on muscle hypertrophy in middle-aged and older adults. In summary, ibuprofen use may modulate the effects of resistance training on muscle hypertrophy, but more research on the topic is needed before making any conclusive recommendations.		[Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001042888900009	38	Article; Article		
J	Kozub, Francis M.; Faller, Justin; Kozub, Jesse M.								Using Autoregulation to Safely Return to Weightlifting During Cancer Treatments								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	4			498	508		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000756			AUG 2023	2023	Masters-level weightlifters diagnosed with cancer can return to training as a part of a successful treatment plan. Many older adults at higher risk for cancer participate in masters weightlifting meets worldwide. Resuming activities enjoyed before diagnosis is part of a return to normalcy for these athletes. This article recommends using autoregulation integrated with periodization principles to account for changes in the body due to surgery, side effects from masters cancer treatments, and age-related declines that affect masters athletes. Surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy require adjusting workouts from prediagnosis levels to insure a safe and successful recovery while athletes experience side effects from treatments. Autoregulation is recommended to help strength and conditioning specialists assist in daily exercise prescriptions for patients with cancer who experience good and bad days during months of treatment cycles. Resistance training is an evidence-based practice for a successful recovery, and existing literature provides a basis for recommendations found in this article to support program development for masters weightlifters returning to advanced resistance training.		[Kozub, Francis M.] Univ North Carolina Pembroke, Dept Kinesiol, Pembroke, NC 28372 USA; [Faller, Justin] SUNY Coll Brockport, Dept Kinesiol Sport Studies & Phys Educ, Brockport, NY USA; [Kozub, Jesse M.] SUNY Buffalo, Jacobs Sch Med & Biomed Sci, Brockport, NY USA; [Kozub, Francis M.] Univ North Carolina Pembroke, Dept Kinesiol, Pembroke, NC 28372 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001042888900011	36	Article; Article		
J	Jepsen, Christopher								Determinants of Career Exits and Career Breaks in Women's Professional Basketball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	8			1055	1075		10.1177/15270025231190647			DEC 2023	2023	Although economists regularly use sports to study labor-market outcomes, nearly all sports-related studies focus on men. Instead, this paper looks at career breaks and career exits for women's basketball, with a focus on race/ethnicity and country of birth. Data are from the start of the Women's National Basketball Association in 1997 through the 2019 season. White players and foreign-born players have higher likelihoods of leaving the league, conditional on player demographics and productivity.		[Jepsen, Christopher] Univ Coll, Sch Econ, Dublin, Ireland; [Jepsen, Christopher] Univ Coll, Sch Econ, Dublin, Ireland								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001041327300001	37	Article; Article		
J	Ekren, Deniz; Anagnostopoulos, Christos								Case study: What's the best (kept) secret about FIFA's 2022 World Cup™? The case of Qatar's <i>Generation Amazing</i> program								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	3			570	582		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2023-245			JUL 31 2023	2023			[Ekren, Deniz] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Islamic Studies, Doha, Qatar; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Div Engn Management & Decis Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Ekren, Deniz] Hamad Bin Khalifa Univ, Coll Islamic Studies, Doha, Qatar								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001039961400010	19	Article; Article		
J	Centracchio, Brett; Popp, Nels; Jensen, Jonathan A. A.								Examining valuation of corporate naming rights partnerships in collegiate sports and their impact on consumer behavior								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	5			871	890		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2023-0015			NOV 2 2023	2023	PurposeMost college athletics department have not sold corporate naming rights to their athletics facilities. Popp et al. (2016) suggests two primary reasons: (1) difficulty in determining proper valuation and (2) fear of stakeholder backlash. The purpose of the current study is to address both concerns by utilizing a hedonic pricing model predicting collegiate naming rights values and utilizing fixed-effects models to determine if consumer behavior (event attendance and donations) is impacted by a corporate name change.Design/methodology/approachData from 110 naming rights agreements among NCAA Division I programs were examined, alongside market-related variables, institution-related variables and venue-related variables. Utilizing hierarchical model building to reduce independent variables and OLS regression modeling, significant relationships with annual value of naming rights agreements were uncovered. Fixed effects models were utilized to determine if naming rights impacted attendance and donations.FindingsA final model explained more than 53% of the variance in average annual value of naming rights agreements, with three significant factors: (1) attendance, (2) all-time winning percentage and (3) venue construction cost. Fixed-effects models revealed no significant differences in attendance or donations after a naming rights deal was signed.Originality/valueCorporate naming rights agreements for college athletics facilities are a recent phenomenon. While a similar study examining drivers of collegiate sport naming rights was previously conducted, the current study revealed a shifting marketplace. In addition, no prior study has examined the impact of a corporate naming rights agreement on future attendance and donations.		[Centracchio, Brett; Popp, Nels; Jensen, Jonathan A. A.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Popp, Nels] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001037368500001	41	Article; Article		
J	Seki, Keitaro; Hondo, Shingo								Effects of hurdle height on lower limb joint kinematics and kinetics of male trainee sprinters during hurdle jumps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3131	3140		10.1080/14763141.2023.2241852			DEC 1 2024	2024	Hurdle jumps are frequently practiced in the field of sports training. The present study aimed to clarify the effect of hurdle heights on jumping height and joint kinematics, and kinetics during hurdle jumps. Ten male Japanese trainee sprinters performed at three heights (0.76, 0.91 and 1.06 m) of hurdle jumps and maximum countermovement jump (CMJ). Sagittal plane kinematics and ground reaction force were measured. Jump height significantly increased with hurdle heights (& eta;(2)(p) = 0.65), but the difference in jump heights was small as compared to the difference in the hurdle heights. The contact time and mechanical work of the lower limb joints did not differ between different hurdle heights. The minimal angles of the knee (& eta;(2)(p) = 0.47) and hip (& eta;(2)(p) = 0.70) joints during the flight phase significantly decreased with higher hurdle heights. The load characteristics of the lower limb joint with higher hurdle heights would be similar to those with lower hurdle heights. In higher hurdle heights, since the increase in jump height was smaller than the increase in hurdle height, the legs were more flexed to clear the hurdle. Therefore, the hurdle height which is similar to the maximum CMJ height would be appropriate as a training load.		[Seki, Keitaro] Nihon Univ, Coll Humanities & Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Hondo, Shingo] Nihon Univ, Coll Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Seki, Keitaro] Nihon Univ, Coll Humanities & Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Tokyo, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001038029300001	19	Article; Article		
J	Song, Jun Seob; Seffrin, Aldo; Yamada, Yujiro; Kataoka, Ryo; Hammert, William B.; Spitz, Robert W.; Wong, Vickie; Kang, Anna; Loenneke, Jeremy P.								Can we improve exercise-induced hypoalgesia with exercise training? An overview and suggestions for future studies								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				63				67	72		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.07.005			SEP 2023	2023	Exercise-induced hypoalgesia refers to a reduction in pain sensitivity following a single bout of exercise, which has been shown to be diminished or impaired with aging and chronic pain. Exercise training (repeated bouts of exercise over time) is often recommended as a non-pharmacological treatment for chronic pain and age-related functional declines. However, whether exercise training can augment the exercise-induced hypoalgesia has not been well studied. The purpose of this paper is to 1) provide an overview of the existing literature investigating the effect of exercise training on the magnitude of exercise-induced hypoalgesia, and 2) discuss potential un-derlying mechanisms as well as considerations for future research. Given the paucity of randomized controlled trials in this area, the effects of exercise training on exercise-induced hypoalgesia are still unclear. Several po-tential mechanisms have been proposed to explain the impaired exercise-induced hypoalgesia in chronic pain and older individuals (e.g., endogenous opioid, cardiovascular, and immune system). Exercise training appears to induce physiological changes in those systems, however, further investigations are necessary to test whether this will lead to improved exercise-induced hypoalgesia. Future research should consider including a time-and age-matched non-training group and utilizing the same exercise protocol for testing exercise-induced hypoalgesia across intervention groups.		[Song, Jun Seob; Seffrin, Aldo; Yamada, Yujiro; Kataoka, Ryo; Hammert, William B.; Spitz, Robert W.; Wong, Vickie; Kang, Anna; Loenneke, Jeremy P.] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Kevser Ermin Appl Physiol Lab, University, MS USA; [Loenneke, Jeremy P.] POB 1848, University, MS 38677 USA; [Loenneke, Jeremy P.] POB 1848, University, MS 38677 USA								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001052214800001	79	Article; Article		
J	Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo								Swimming biomechanics: from the pool to the lab horizontal ellipsis and back								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1197	1219		10.1080/14763141.2023.2237003			MAY 4 2025	2025	The swimming pool experience is a fertile ground to challenge current knowledge and catalyse research into factors governing swimming performance that may inform individualised swimming training. This paper discusses the perspective and contributions of a swimming scientist, analyst, and coach on the main current trends of scientific and technological developments, allowing a deeper knowledge about determining factors of swimming performance, its evaluation difficulties, and utility for coaching daily tasks. After equating the complexity of an integrative approach to 'swimming performance', five main topics were selected: (i) the swimming economy and energy profile characteristics of each swimmer and swimming technique; (ii) the associated intra-cycle velocity variation profile; (iii) the propulsive force generation capacity; (iv) the drag force imposed on the swimmer; and (v) the internal load characterisation, opening perspectives for understanding the muscle activity pattern. It was concluded that, all together, scientific developments in these domains have allowed for an almost complete picture of the complex network of factors that explain swimming performance (velocity to cover a given distance, which can be further decomposed into a specific combination of stroke length and frequency), favouring the objectivity of diagnosing strengths and weaknesses of an individual profile.		[Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP UP, Porto, Portugal; [Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo] CIF2D, Porto, Portugal; [Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP UP, Porto, Portugal; [Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo] CIF2D, Porto, Portugal								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001037397000001	140	Article; Article		
J	Glaviano, Neal R.; Kim, Sungwan								Lower extremity muscle volume in females with patellofemoral pain and its relationships to hip and knee torque: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				63				50	57		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.07.003			SEP 2023	2023	Objectives: Compare lower extremity muscle volume in females with patellofemoral pain (PFP) to a cohort of pain-free females and investigate the relationship between thigh and hip muscle volume and torque.Design: Cross-sectional.Participants: Twenty-one females, 13 with PFP and 8 pain-free controls.Main outcome measures: We quantified normalized lower extremity muscle volume (cm3/kg*m) via magnetic resonance imaging and isometric hip and thigh torque (Nm/kg) via a multimodal dynamometer.Results: Versus pain-free individuals, females with PFP had smaller muscle volume of the anterior hip (P < 0.019; d = 0.97-2.42), deep external rotators (P < 0.006; d = 1.0-3.93), hamstrings (P < 0.009; d = 1.09-2.12), rectus femoris (P < 0.001; d = 1.79), and vastus intermedius (P < 0.001; d = 1.88). There was no difference in muscle volume of the gluteus maximus (P = 0.311; d = 0.22), gluteus medius (P = 0.087; d = 0.87), vastus lateralis (P = 0.22; d = 0.39), and vastus medialis (P = 0.47; d = 0.04). Gluteus maximus volume was moderately correlated to hip abduction torque (r = 0.60; P = 0.03). Vasti muscles and semitendinosus volume were moderately correlated to knee extension (r = 0.57-0.69; P < 0.05) and flexion (r = 0.66; P = 0.01) torque, respectively.Conclusion: Females with PFP present with lesser thigh and hip muscle volumes, with variability in volumetric profiles across participants. Lower extremity knee extension and hip abduction strength are moderately associated with the vasti and gluteus maximus muscle volume, respectively.		[Glaviano, Neal R.; Kim, Sungwan] Univ Connecticut, Coll Agr Hlth & Nat Resources, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.; Kim, Sungwan] Univ Connecticut, Inst Sports Med, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Sports Optimizat & Rehabil Lab, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Sports Optimizat & Rehabil Lab, Storrs, CT 06269 USA								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001050496300001	46	Article; Article		
J	Shadegani, Roghaye; Khanmohammadi, Roya; Olyaei, Gholamreza								Comparison of effects of Mulligan taping and Kinesio taping on ankle neuromuscular control in response to a sudden inversion perturbation in individuals with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				63				58	66		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.07.004			SEP 2023	2023	Objectives: This study was aimed to compare the effects of Mulligan taping (MT) with Kinesio taping (KT) and the un-taped ankle on neuromuscular control during a sudden inversion perturbation in individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Design: Randomized, single blind cross-over. Setting: Biomechanics lab. Participants: 16 individuals with chronic ankle instability. Main outcome measures: The outcome measures were the onset time and magnitude of short (SLR) and medium latency response (MLR) for peroneus brevis (PB), peroneus longus (PL), tibialis anterior (TA), and soleus (SOL) muscles and the TA/P and SOL/TA antagonist co-activation. Results: In the groups of KT and MT, the onset time was significantly decreased at post-taping compared to pretaping, such that for the onset time of PB MLR, the groups of KT and MT had an earlier onset time than the untaped group. For the magnitude of TA SLR and PB MLR, groups exhibited different behaviors. In the KT group, the magnitude was significantly increased post-taping, however, in the MT group, it was decreased. Regarding the TA/P and SOL/TA co-activation, the groups of KT and MT showed significant changes post-taping. Conclusion: This study suggests that KT and MT significantly affect neuromuscular control in response to a sudden perturbation in individuals with CAI, although the behavior of KT and MT appears to be somewhat different from each other.		[Shadegani, Roghaye; Khanmohammadi, Roya; Olyaei, Gholamreza] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, Tehran, Iran; [Khanmohammadi, Roya] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Rehabil Fac, Phys Therapy Dept, POB 16535-188, Tehran, Iran; [Khanmohammadi, Roya] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Rehabil Fac, Phys Therapy Dept, POB 16535-188, Tehran, Iran								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001050533800001	54	Article; Article		
J	Green, Peter; Jenkins, Simon								Golf coaching wisdom: Practical lessons, stories and insights from the protege of the legendary John Jacobs								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1658	1691		10.1177/17479541231187269			OCT 2023	2023	Based on interviews/conversations by the second author with Peter Green, this stimulus article is presented as a collection of anecdotes and short stories in the style of the best-selling 'Harvey Penick's Little Red Book'. It captures the golf coaching knowledge, with its jargon and lingo, of the legendary John Jacobs who had a strong influence on the philosophy and methods of arguably the three most famous golf coaches in the last 30 years (Hank Haney, Butch Harmon and David Leadbetter). Green spent more time learning directly from Jacobs than any other golf coach. Working both with Jacobs and on his own, Green has helped not only some of the greatest golfers in history, but also tens of thousands of golfers who play for fun.		[Green, Peter] G Prive Events Ltd, Minchinhampton, England; [Jenkins, Simon] SPR Jenkins, Brentwood, England; [Jenkins, Simon] SPR Jenkins, Brentwood, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001037154700001	26	Article; Article		
J	Mehta, Saumya; Furley, Philip; Raabe, Dominik; Memmert, Daniel								Examining how data becomes information for an upcoming opponent in football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			978	987		10.1177/17479541231187871			JUN 2024	2024	As the sport industry witnesses a surge in the type and volume of data-driven decisions, the general question of the process of information development remains: how is data used to develop meaningful information? And does the presence of novel quantitative data sources lend greater objectivity to match analysis? Study 1 examines how 12 football analysts use the same qualitative (video) and quantitative (event and position) data to develop information constituting a typical opponent report for an upcoming match, while Study 2 investigates the agreement between grade evaluations of these opponent reports by numerous professional coaches. Findings of Study 1 through independent-samples t-tests (t(18) = 3.922, p = 0.001) indicate a clear dominance of qualitative video data over quantitative event and position data in all opponent reports. Despite the presence of quantitative data sources, analysts tend to prefer annotated video data. Possible relations to previous experience and familiarity with data, coach-analyst preferences and biases are discussed. Results from Study 2 show extremely weak intra-class correlations (ICC) (r = 0.147; p = 0.011) between different grades awarded to the same video, depicting a clear lack of agreement in what coaches consider a good opponent report. Furthermore, coaches most valued the comprehensibility and relevance of the report. No significant associations were found between use of either data type and better grades. The subjectivity of the coaching process highlighting preferences regarding data validity and negotiations of adopting new key performance indicators (KPIs) is discussed, alongside limitations of the sample as well as the level of coach-analysts involved.		[Mehta, Saumya; Furley, Philip; Raabe, Dominik; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany; [Mehta, Saumya] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Am Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Mehta, Saumya] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Am Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001037156500001	27	Article; Article		
J	Hattingh, Woulan; Van den Berg, Liandi; Bevan-Dye, Ayesha								The "why" behind generation Y amateur gamers' ongoing eSports gameplay intentions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	1			67	87		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2023-0064			JAN 19 2024	2024	PurposeTechnological advancements in games increased the popularity of online gaming. The rapid expansion of the eSports market may largely be attributed to the ever-increasing popularity amongst Generation Y amateur gamers. The primary objective of this study is to determine the factors influencing Generation Y amateur gamers' ongoing eSports gameplay intentions.Design/methodology/approachThis study used the extended unified theory of acceptance as the theoretical framework. Data analysis included exploratory principal component analysis, confirmatory factor analysis and path analysis.FindingsThe results of the confirmatory factor analysis suggest that Generation Y amateur gamers' ongoing eSports gameplay intentions is an eight-factor model that is reliable, valid and has acceptable model fit. The results of the path analysis indicate that habit, price-value, flow, effort expectancy and facilitating conditions have a statistically significant positive influence on amateur gamers' ongoing eSports gameplay intentions, whilst social influence and hedonic motivation have a negative but non-significant influence on those intentions.Research limitations/implicationsThe sample was formed using only amateur eSports gamers. In this regard, the opportunity exists to research professional eSports gamers. This study only focussed on Generation Y members between 18 and 36 years old. As a result, there is an opportunity for researchers to research the different generations of South African eSports gamers to determine whether there are any differences or similarities between generational segments.Practical implicationsThe results of this study clearly indicate that flow, together with habit are salient contributors to ongoing gameplay intentions amongst amateur eSports gamers in South Africa. A reasonable assumption that can be made here is that flow is also instrumental in encouraging habitual gaming, which increases the importance of flow in overall ongoing gameplay intentions. This suggests that R & D expenditure should be directed at enhancing user engagement by building increased levels of flow into eSports games.Social implicationseSports game developers can also achieve a desired state of flow by creating daily challenges that reward players when the players achieve specific objectives, which will encourage gamers to enter a state of flow when provided with challenges to complete. However, these in-game challenges should have a variety of levels regarding difficulty, ranging from beginner, intermediate and advanced levels so as not to exceed the effort expectancy of different groups of players. Game developers should provide regularly updated challenges to gamers to ensure that eSports games remain enjoyable and does not become predictable.Originality/valueGiven the nascence of research on eSports behaviour, the results of this study provide a novel addition to the knowledge pool, particularly in terms of amateur eSports behavioural intentions. Interestingly, hedonic motivation and social influence were non-significant negative predictors of Generation Y amateur gamers' ongoing eSports gameplay intentions. The recommendations provide various marketing strategies and opportunities for eSports business expansion.		[Hattingh, Woulan; Van den Berg, Liandi] North West Univ, Fac Econ & Management Sci, TELIT SA, Vanderbijlpark, South Africa; [Bevan-Dye, Ayesha] North West Univ, Fac Econ & Management Sci, Workwell, Vanderbijlpark, South Africa; [Van den Berg, Liandi] North West Univ, Fac Econ & Management Sci, TELIT SA, Vanderbijlpark, South Africa								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001034341800001	74	Article; Article		
J	Datson, Naomi; Dello Iacono, Antonio; Doncaster, Greg; Page, Richard Michael; McKeown, Andy; Unnithan, Viswanath B.								Peak physical demands of elite women's soccer: Assessing playing position and post-goal locomotor patterns								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			999	1010		10.1177/17479541231189240			JUN 2024	2024	It has recently been identified that the assessment of peak periods of activity better considers the stochastic nature of match-play and the influence that contextual factors have on these peak periods. Limited research exists attempting to link the tactical and physical aspects of performance, especially in female players. Therefore, the current study aimed to assess post-goal locomotor patterns and positional differences on peak match demands in elite female soccer players. Using 10 Hz global positioning system units, a total of 133 player match observations were recorded from 14 matches played by an elite Scottish women's professional soccer team. The total distance (TD), high-speed running distance (>18 km/h) (HSRD) and PlayerLoad(& TRADE;) (PL) were assessed for 1, 3 and 5-minute peak periods using a rolling epoch approach. Playing position and post-goal activity were used as modulating factors. Linear mixed models established a main effect for playing position for the HSRD at peak 1-minute (p<.001), 3-minute (p < .001) and 5-minute (p < .001) epochs. There were also main effects for the playing position for TD at peak 1-minute (p= .001) and PL at peak-3minute (p = .002). Team-level data showed a main effect for condition (score vs. concede) for 3-minute TD data and main effects for time (pre vs. post) for 1,3 and 5-minute epochs for PL data. The average and peak values were shown to differ across playing positions for all variables. Likewise, potentially indicative of tactical adjustments significant differences were observed at both a team and player level following scoring or conceding a goal.		[Datson, Naomi] Univ Chichester, Inst Sport Nursing & Allied Hlth, Chichester, England; [Dello Iacono, Antonio; Unnithan, Viswanath B.] Univ West Scotland, Sport Phys Act Res Inst, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Glasgow City, Scotland; [Doncaster, Greg; Page, Richard Michael] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk, England; [McKeown, Andy] Celt FC Women, Glasgow City, Scotland; [Datson, Naomi] Univ Chichester, Inst Sport Nursing & Allied Hlth, Chichester, England								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001034225700001	32	Article; Article		
J	Nam, KwangWoo; Kim, CheolYong; Yoon, SangJin								Relationship between judo coaches' authentic leadership and judo athletes' perceived performance: Mediating effect of self-management								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			19	32		10.1177/17479541231190036			FEB 2024	2024	In Judo, one of the combat sports, athletes must endure high intensity, long-term training sessions that extend for long durations to achieve outstanding performances. Authentic leadership plays an essential role in this combat sport by supporting players who may experience slower growth and in enduring the rigorous and long-term training. Despite this leadership type being essential for fostering development and success in judo, few studies have been conducted on authentic leadership in the context of sports. This study investigated the relationship between judo coaches' authentic leadership and judo athletes' self-management and perceived performance; it also investigated the mediating effects of self-management on the relationship between authentic leadership and perceived performance. We used a convenience sampling method to recruit 274 Korean judo athletes. We conducted frequency analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, reliability analysis, correlation analysis, and structural equation modeling. The results showed that judo coaches' authentic leadership had a significant effect on athletes' self-management, but no significant effect on their perceived performance. Additionally, judo athletes' self-management had a significant effect on perceived performance. Further, self-management had a mediating (complete) effect on the relationship between judo coaches' authentic leadership and athletes' perceived performance. Our results show that judo coaches' authentic leadership does not directly affect athletes' perceived performance, but has an indirect effect through the mediating effect of self-management. In other words, judo coaches' authentic leadership can directly enhance athletes' self-management and indirectly enhance athletes' perceived performance, thereby suggesting that it is an important factor in athletes' performance progress.		[Nam, KwangWoo] Korea Naval Acad, Chang Won, Gyungnam, South Korea; [Kim, CheolYong] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Gwacheon, Gyeonggi, South Korea; [Yoon, SangJin] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Tokyo, Japan; [Yoon, SangJin] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, 7-1-1 Fukasawa,Setagaya ku, Tokyo 1588508, Japan; [Yoon, SangJin] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, 7-1-1 Fukasawa,Setagaya ku, Tokyo 1588508, Japan								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001034223700001	72	Article; Article		
J	Burnett, Jenna K. K.; Kim, Yong-Woon; Kwon, Hyun Joon; Miller, Ross H. H.; Shim, Jae Kun								Whole body mass estimates and error propagation in countermovement jump: a simulated error study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1129	1142		10.1080/14763141.2023.2236589			MAY 4 2025	2025	High-velocity actions are central to clinical and athletic performance, with jumping used to assess outcomes in sports medicine. Ground reaction force (GRF)-based methods are the standard for computing jump characteristics, but require mass estimation and GRF integration, potentially resulting in mass errors which influence outcomes. This study investigated how simulated mass errors influenced the centre of mass (CoM) trajectory during a countermovement jump. The mass was estimated from the static GRF, and simulated errors were added or subtracted to the mass. The CoM trajectory with simulated mass errors was computed using the GRF-based method to investigate mass mis-estimation's influence on jump height. A regression model indicated that, for a 1 kg mass change, there was a 7.7 cm jump height change, and the jump height differed by 11.5 +/- 0.4 cm from the maximum to minimum error. A 2-way ANOVA identified significant height differences between the starting position, and landing, or final position with mass errors of +/- 0.2 or +/- 0.4 kg. These results reveal that small mass errors may produce inaccurate conclusions regarding performance changes, and that errors may propagate throughout the jump trajectory. Caution may be necessary when using GRF-based methods to compute jump height as a power proxy.		[Burnett, Jenna K. K.; Kim, Yong-Woon; Kwon, Hyun Joon; Miller, Ross H. H.; Shim, Jae Kun] Univ Maryland, Dept Kinesiol, College Pk, MD USA; [Kim, Yong-Woon] Kyungnam Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Chang Won, South Korea; [Shim, Jae Kun] Univ Maryland, Neurosci & Cognit Sci Program, College Pk, MD USA; [Shim, Jae Kun] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Mech Engn, Seoul, South Korea; [Shim, Jae Kun] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Mech Engn, Seoul, South Korea								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001045070000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Miyazaki, Terumitsu; Fujii, Norihisa								Intermuscular differences in force generation ability among biarticular hamstring muscles during the late swing phase in maximal speed sprinting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1309	1326		10.1080/14763141.2023.2236076			MAY 4 2025	2025	We aimed to investigate how intermuscular muscle-tendon architectural differences among biarticular hamstring muscles (biceps femoris long head [BFlh], semimembranosus [SM] and semitendinosus [ST]) influence intermuscular differences in muscle force during the late swing phase in maximal speed sprinting. Using a musculoskeletal model, we estimated the muscle-tendon kinematics, muscle force?and force generation ability, defined by force-length-velocity properties and pennation angle, of the biarticular hamstring muscles in 40 male athletes during the late swing phase. SM force generation ability was smaller during the first half of the late swing phase and larger during the second half than the BFlh and ST. The intermuscular differences in force generation ability were caused by the intermuscular differences in time-varying muscle-tendon unit, muscle fibre and tendon lengths, which might be affected by the muscle-tendon architecture of this model, particularly optimal muscle fibre length, tendon slack length and insertion location. Moreover, the peak muscle force was achieved earlier in the BFlh and ST than in the SM. These findings suggest that intermuscular differences in muscle-tendon architecture among the biarticular hamstring muscles can induce intermuscular differences in time-varying muscle force by influencing time-varying force generation ability and muscle-tendon kinematics during the late swing phase.		[Miyazaki, Terumitsu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan; [Fujii, Norihisa] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Miyazaki, Terumitsu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001032125300001	54	Article; Article		
J	Schmerler, Jessica; Chiu, Anthony K.; Agarwal, Amil R.; Kreulen, R. Timothy; Srikumaran, Uma; Best, Matthew J.								Increased prevalence of lower extremity soft tissue injuries and surgeries in patients with anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	3			246	252		10.1080/00913847.2023.2237988			MAY 3 2024	2024	PurposeAn abundance of literature exists linking eating disorders and fracture risk. However, no studies, to our knowledge, have investigated the impact of eating disorders on lower extremity soft tissue injury or surgery risk. The purpose of this study was to determine if anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa are associated with prevalence of lower extremity soft tissue injuries and surgeries.MethodsPatients with anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa over 2010-2020 were identified through the International Classification of Diseases (ICD) codes in the PearlDiver Claims Database. Patients were matched by age, gender, comorbidities, record dates, and region to control groups without anorexia or bulimia. Soft tissue injuries were identified through ICD codes, and surgeries were identified through Current Procedural Terminology codes. Differences in relative prevalence were analyzed using chi-square analysis.ResultsPatients with anorexia had a significantly increased prevalence of meniscus tears (RR = 1.57, CI 1.22-2.03, p = 0.001) or deltoid ligament sprains (RR = 1.83, CI 1.10-3.03, p = 0.025), and patients with bulimia had a significantly increased prevalence of meniscus tears (RR = 1.98, CI 1.56-2.51, p < 0.001), medial collateral ligament sprains (RR = 3.07, CI 1.72-5.48, p < 0.001), any cruciate ligament tears (RR = 2.14, CI 1.29-3.53, p = 0.004), unspecified ankle sprains (RR = 1.56, CI 1.22-1.99, p < 0.001), or any ankle ligament sprains (RR = 1.27, CI 1.07-1.52, p = 0.008). Patients with anorexia had a significantly increased prevalence of anterior cruciate ligament reconstructions (RR = 2.83, CI 1.12-7.17, p = 0.037) or any meniscus surgeries (RR = 1.54, CI 1.03-2.29, p = 0.042), and patients with bulimia had a significantly increased prevalence of partial meniscectomies (RR = 1.80, CI 1.26-2.58, p = 0.002) or any meniscus surgeries (RR = 1.83, CI 1.29-2.60, p < 0.001).ConclusionsAnorexia and bulimia are associated with increased prevalence of soft tissue injuries and surgeries. Orthopedic surgeons should be aware of this risk, and patients presenting to clinics should be informed of the risks associated with these diagnoses and provided with resources promoting recovery to help prevent further injury or surgery.		[Schmerler, Jessica; Kreulen, R. Timothy; Srikumaran, Uma; Best, Matthew J.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sch Med, Baltimore, MD USA; [Chiu, Anthony K.; Agarwal, Amil R.] George Washington Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Washington, DC USA; [Best, Matthew J.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 601 North Caroline St, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA; [Best, Matthew J.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 601 North Caroline St, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:001029934700001	61	Article; Article		
J	Shull, Emily R.; McIver, Kerry; McLain, Alexander C.; Monsma, Eva; Pate, Russell R.								Factors Associated with Children's Physical Activity During Youth Soccer Practices								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			398	404		10.1080/02701367.2023.2225563			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: To identify practice and social contextual factors that associate with physical activity (PA) levels of children during their participation in a youth soccer program. Methods: Twenty-seven youth soccer teams serving children ages 6-11 years participated. Research staff directly observed and recorded PA intensity and practice and social contextual factors using momentary time-sampling procedures. Each team was observed for 1 practice, during which approximately 6 children were each observed for twenty 30-s observation blocks (10-s observation, 20-s recording). In total, children were observed for 3,102 intervals. Multilevel logistic regression analyses were conducted to describe associations between PA intensity and practice and social contexts. Interaction terms were introduced into the models to determine if the associations differed across girls-only, boys-only, and coed teams. Results: A total of 158 children were observed across the 27 teams. Children were more likely to engage in moderate or vigorous PA while performing fitness (Odds Ratio [OR], 9.9, 95% CI = 5.34-18.04), game (OR, 4.0, 95% CI = 2.88-5.66), warm-up (OR, 2.8, 95% CI = 1.85-4.11), and drill (OR, 1.9, 95% CI = 1.41-2.67) activities compared to tactic/instructional activities. The associations between PA intensity levels and practice and social contexts did not differ across girls-only, boys-only, and coed teams. Conclusions: Fitness activities and full-team game play were associated with higher PA intensity levels during children's participation in youth soccer practices. Youth sport practice protocols can be modified to increase children's physical activity.		[Shull, Emily R.; McIver, Kerry; McLain, Alexander C.; Monsma, Eva; Pate, Russell R.] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC USA; [Pate, Russell R.] Univ South Carolina, Arnold Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Exercise Sci, 921 Assembly St,Suite 212, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Pate, Russell R.] Univ South Carolina, Arnold Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Exercise Sci, 921 Assembly St,Suite 212, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001029428900001	20	Article; Article		
J	Yeh, Ting Yen; Wimmenauer, Hailey M.; Lamont, Hugh S.; Smith, J. Chadwick								Acute Effect of Heavy Load Back Squat and Foam Rolling on Vertical Jump Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			416	422		10.1080/02701367.2023.2230282			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: In a rested state, foam rolling has been shown to improve blood flow to the working tissues. When inducing post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE), previous research suggests a longer recovery period between the conditioning activity and performance assessment in weaker participants (back squat <2.0 x body mass). It is possible that a cool-down effect may take place between the conditioning activity and performance assessment for these participants. Therefore, the purpose of this investigation was to determine if foam rolling could help mitigate any cool-down effect to help participants capitalize on PAPE. Methods: Seventeen physically active participants completed baseline jumps followed by rest (control), back squat exercise (heavy squats), rest and foam rolling (FR), and heavy squats followed by foam rolling (combo). VJ performance was assessed three times post-treatment with 2 min between each assessment. Results: VJ height and impulse were greater at baseline than at any other time point across all sessions (p < .001). Impulse for the control and FR sessions were greater than the squats session (p < .015). Impulse for the combo session was less than the FR session (p = .04). Conclusions: Foam rolling did not have a significant impact on attenuating any cool-down effect. In addition, our heavy squats protocol appears to induce too much fatigue that possibly masked the effects of PAPE.		[Yeh, Ting Yen; Wimmenauer, Hailey M.; Lamont, Hugh S.; Smith, J. Chadwick] Coastal Carolina Univ, Conway, SC USA; [Smith, J. Chadwick] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 105 Independence Dr,Williams Brice Bldg,Room 111, Conway, SC 29526 USA; [Smith, J. Chadwick] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 105 Independence Dr,Williams Brice Bldg,Room 111, Conway, SC 29526 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001029409400001	16	Article; Article		
J	LaRowe, Lisa R. R.; Williams, David M. M.								Activity-Induced Pain as a Predictor of Sedentary Behavior Among Midlife Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			391	397		10.1080/02701367.2023.2222783			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Midlife adults have been estimated to spend over half of their waking time engaging in sedentary behavior, and greater sedentary behavior has been associated with a reduced likelihood of successful aging. Moreover, more than one-quarter of midlife adults report chronic pain, and there is reason to believe that pain may contribute to sedentary behavior among this population. The goal of these analyses was to test associations between self-reported increases in pain during activity and subsequent sedentary behavior among a sample of midlife adults with chronic pain. Methods: Participants included 200 midlife adults (age 50-64) who reported chronic pain and completed an online prospective survey. Activity-induced pain was assessed at baseline and total time spent engaging in sedentary behavior was assessed at baseline, 1-week, and 4-week follow-up assessments. Results: Activity-induced pain predicted greater sedentary behavior at 1-week (p < .05) and 4-week (p < .01) follow-up assessments, even after controlling for chronic pain intensity and baseline sedentary behavior. Conclusions: Activity-induced pain may represent an important mechanism underlying sedentary behavior among midlife adults with chronic pain, and programs designed to reduce sedentary behavior among this population may benefit from tailoring to account for the antithetical influence of activity-induced pain. Indeed, the current findings suggest that mitigating the extent to which pain increases during activity may be more important than reducing overall pain intensity when attempting to decrease sedentary behavior among this population. This and future work have the potential to inform the refinement of tailored interventions.		[LaRowe, Lisa R. R.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Boston, MA 02114 USA; [Williams, David M. M.] Brown Univ, Sch Publ Hlth, Providence, RI USA; [LaRowe, Lisa R. R.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Mongan Inst Ctr Aging & Serious Illness, Div Palliat Care & Geriatr Med, 100 Cambridge St,Suite 1600, Boston, MA 02114 USA; [LaRowe, Lisa R. R.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Mongan Inst Ctr Aging & Serious Illness, Div Palliat Care & Geriatr Med, 100 Cambridge St,Suite 1600, Boston, MA 02114 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001029430300001	63	Article; Article		
J	Carvalho, Renatha; Fonseca, Sergio T.; Okai-Nobrega, Liria A.; Santos, Thiago R. T.; Araujo, Priscila A.; Quirino, Juliana; Martins, Wagner R.; Prado, Luciano S.; Souza, Thales R.								Effects of lower-limb extensors' neuromuscular fatigue on the regularity of running movements: a crossover study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1327	1344		10.1080/14763141.2023.2236082			MAY 4 2025	2025	Neuromuscular fatigue (NMF) reduces the musculoskeletal system's ability to produce force during activities like running. Analysis of motor behaviour's regularity may identify motor system deficits caused by fatigue. The present study investigated whether the NMF of lower limb extensors alters the regularity of running movement and whether this possible effect remains over time. Crossover study with two randomised conditions: NMF and control. Twelve healthy young males participated in this study. Hip, knee, and ankle angles (sagittal plane) and centre of mass (CoM) linear accelerations were assessed during treadmill running at self-selected speed in four assessment conditions: Baseline (pre-NMF), and after NMF (NMF condition) or after rest (control), at the 1(st) (Time_1), 10(th) (Time_10) and 20(th) (Time_20) minutes. Kinematics regularity was measured as Sample Entropy. Repeated measures ANOVAs were used (& alpha; = 0.05). NMF reduced regularity of lower limb joints during running, and these effects remained up to 20 minutes. No changes were observed in the CoM accelerations' regularity. The regularity reductions may be an adaptive solution for the motor system to maintain the task performance. The measure of regularity of the lower limb joints' motion is sensitive to NMF and can identify states with deficits in muscles' force production capacity in running.		[Carvalho, Renatha; Fonseca, Sergio T.; Okai-Nobrega, Liria A.; Araujo, Priscila A.; Quirino, Juliana; Souza, Thales R.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Dept Phys Therapy, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Santos, Thiago R. T.] Univ Fed Uberlandia UFU, Fac Phys Educ & Phys Therapy, Uberlandia, Brazil; [Martins, Wagner R.] Univ Brasilia, Dept Physiotherapy, Brasilia, Brazil; [Prado, Luciano S.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Dept Phys Educ, Grad Program Sports Sci, Belo Horizonte, Brazil; [Souza, Thales R.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Dept Phys Therapy, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Belo Horizonte, Brazil								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001032267100001	43	Article; Article		
J	Schache, Anthony G.; Sritharan, Prasanna; Crossley, Kay M.; Perraton, Luke G.; Bryant, Adam L.; Morris, Hayden G.; Whitehead, Timothy S.; Culvenor, Adam G.								Is quadriceps strength associated with patellofemoral joint loading after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				63				31	37		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.06.006			SEP 2023	2023	Objective: To test whether quadriceps strength is associated with measures of patellofemoral (PF) joint loading during running and hopping in people after an anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Sixty-five participants (24 women; 41 men) 1-2 years post-ACLR. Main outcome measures: Peak isometric quadriceps strength for the surgical limb was measured using a dynamometer. Motion analysis and ground reaction force data were combined with musculoskeletal modelling to measure PF joint loading variables for the reconstructed knee (peak knee flexion angle; peak/impulse of the PF joint contact force; time to peak PF joint contact force) during the stance phase of running and during the landing phase of a standardised forward hop. Linear regression analysis (adjusting for age and sex) assessed the association between quadriceps strength and PF joint loading variables. Results: Two significant, albeit modest, associations were revealed. Quadriceps strength was associated with the time to peak PF joint contact force during running (13 = -0.001; 95%CI -0.002 to -0.000; R2 = 0.179) and the impulse of the PF joint contact force during hopping (13 = 0.014; 95%CI 0.003 to 0.024; R2 = 0.159). Conclusions: A strong link between quadriceps strength and PF joint loading was not evident in people 1-2 years post-ACLR.		[Schache, Anthony G.; Sritharan, Prasanna; Crossley, Kay M.; Culvenor, Adam G.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Vic 3806, Australia; [Perraton, Luke G.] Monash Univ, Sch Primary Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy, Frankston, Australia; [Bryant, Adam L.] Univ Melbourne, Ctr Hlth Exercise & Sports Med, Parkville, Australia; [Morris, Hayden G.] Pk Clin Orthopaed, Kew, Australia; [Whitehead, Timothy S.] Epworth Med Fdn, OrthoSport Victoria, Richmond, Australia; [Schache, Anthony G.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Vic 3806, Australia								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001046898700001	49	Article; Article		
J	Jankaew, Amornthep; Jan, Yih-Kuen; Hwang, Ing-Shiou; Kuo, Li-Chieh; Lin, Cheng-Feng								Hamstring activation deficits in different jumping directions in athletes with a history of hamstring strain injuries: a cross-sectional laboratory study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1293	1308		10.1080/14763141.2023.2236074			MAY 4 2025	2025	This study aimed to investigate the hamstring onset time and recruitment level during jumping tasks in athletes with chronic hamstring strain injuries. Thirteen hamstring injured athletes and thirteen matched healthy athletes were recruited. Activation onset time and muscle recruitment (median frequency of the EMG) of the lateral hamstring (LH) and medial hamstring (MH) was measured during double leg jumps in vertical and horizontal directions on the force platforms. The peak vertical ground reaction force and loading rate were obtained for all jumps. The injured group showed a delayed onset time (p = 0.029) and a lower recruitment of the LH during the landing (p = 0.018) than the control group. Activation deficits in the injured group led to a higher landing force and loading rate. Additionally, the LH and MH were lesser recruited in the vertical direction than the horizontal directions in the landing. In conclusion, athletes with hamstring injuries show hamstring activation deficits of the injured leg during jumping leading to degrading jump-landing performance. Also, jumping in different directions play a role to modify the recruitment of the hamstrings in the injured athletes. Therefore, movement plane is suggested to be considered in clinical rehabilitation for the hamstring injury.		[Jankaew, Amornthep; Hwang, Ing-Shiou; Kuo, Li-Chieh; Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Allied Hlth Sci, Coll Med, Tainan, Taiwan; [Jan, Yih-Kuen] Univ Illinois, Coll Appl Hlth Sci, Dept Kinesiol & Community Hlth, Champaign, IL USA; [Hwang, Ing-Shiou; Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Coll Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Tainan, Taiwan; [Kuo, Li-Chieh] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Coll Med, Dept Occupat Therapy, Tainan, Taiwan; [Kuo, Li-Chieh] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Med Device Innovat Ctr, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ Hosp, Phys Therapy Ctr, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Allied Hlth Sci, Coll Med, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Coll Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ Hosp, Phys Therapy Ctr, Tainan, Taiwan								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001030323100001	45	Article; Article		
J	Jedelhauser, Fabienne; Flepp, Raphael; Franck, Egon								Overshadowed by Popularity: The Value of Second-Tier Stars in European Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	8			1026	1054		10.1177/15270025231187880			DEC 2023	2023	While second-tier stars lack popularity compared to superstars, their marginal contribution to team performance on the pitch relative to that of superstars is unknown. Relying on league-specific preseason market value distributions to define superstars and second-tier stars, we compare the marginal contributions of superstars and second-tier stars to team performance on the pitch in the top five European football leagues. Examining the impact of unexpected injury-related absences, we find that second-tier stars' marginal contribution is at least equal to that of superstars. Thus, the players with arguably the highest costs for clubs do not contribute accordingly to short-run sportive success.		[Jedelhauser, Fabienne; Flepp, Raphael; Franck, Egon] Univ Zurich, Dept Business Adm, Zurich, Switzerland; [Jedelhauser, Fabienne] Univ Zurich, Plattenstrase 14, CH-8032 Zurich, Switzerland; [Jedelhauser, Fabienne] Univ Zurich, Plattenstrase 14, CH-8032 Zurich, Switzerland								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001027864800001	43	Article; Article		
J	Neumann, David L.; Piatkowski, Timothy M.; Moffitt, Robyn L.; Minahan, Clare L.								Perceived benefits and receptivity to sport psychology consulting services of elite athletes in developing nations of the Oceania region								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1175	1185		10.1177/17479541231188455			JUN 2024	2024	Sport psychology consulting services are commonly used by elite athletes in developed countries, but little is known about the athlete's perceptions of such services in developing countries. The present study examined the accessibility, receptivity, and perceived benefit of sport psychology services (via a sport psychology services questionnaire) through a cross-sectional survey of elite athletes (N = 32; M-age = 23.06 years, SD = 5.81) from 12 nations of the Oceania region who participated in the Gather, Adjust, Prepare, Sustain programme. These nations were Vanuatu, Fiji, Tuvalu, Tonga, Solomon Islands, Cook Islands, Norfolk Island, Niue, Nauru, Kiribati, Samoa, and Papua New Guinea. The results revealed that only a quarter of the athletes had ongoing access to sport psychology consulting services. Over half reported that they were receptive to sport psychology services and perceived that these types of services would be beneficial. The most desired services related to performance enhancement (e.g. performance under pressure). The athletes reported mixed levels of knowledge regarding mental skills, and most knowledge concerned the use of mental skills in competition. Specifically, most athletes rated their knowledge of mental skills at either the low (e.g. imagery) or high (e.g. goal setting, focus, and self-talk) range, and relatively fewer athletes rated their knowledge in the mid-range. The athletes demonstrated interest in learning more mental skills to enhance their performance. These findings indicate that a need exists for sport psychology service providers among athletes in the Oceania region. Existing non-local providers may also consider supplying services through digital modalities.		[Neumann, David L.; Piatkowski, Timothy M.] Griffith Univ, Sch Appl Psychol, Gold Coast, Australia; [Moffitt, Robyn L.] Deakin Univ, Sch Psychol, Burwood, Australia; [Minahan, Clare L.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Gold Coast, Australia; [Neumann, David L.] Griffith Univ, Sch Appl Psychol, Gold Coast Campus, Gold Coast, Qld 4222, Australia; [Neumann, David L.] Griffith Univ, Sch Appl Psychol, Gold Coast Campus, Gold Coast, Qld 4222, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001029149700001	35	Article; Article		
J	McGuigan, Mark; Dello Iacono, Antonio; McRobert, Allistair; Cowan, Daryl; Unnithan, Viswanath B.								Facilitators and barriers associated with youth player transition to professional first-team football: A key stakeholder perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			988	998		10.1177/17479541231184022			JUN 2024	2024	The transition of elite youth footballers through academy systems towards the first team is highly complex, competitive, and often unsuccessful. A myriad of factors including technical competence, physical prowess, and the development environment combine to determine youth player progression. Current research has focused on broad investigations of multiple clubs and stakeholders, providing a valuable overview of the key aspects associated with elite youth player transition. This study aimed to provide an in-depth, context-specific investigation of key stakeholders within an elite level club in the United Kingdom (UK). Seven key stakeholders including the head of the academy (n = 1), the head of sports science (n = 1), coaches (n = 3), and lead sports scientists (n = 2) were recruited. Framework analysis led to the development of a practical framework outlining the key facilitators and barriers of youth-to-first-team transition. Facilitators of transition included overcoming adversity, high-level physical prowess, exceptional technical competence, and possessing at least one elite-level attribute. Barriers to transition included a lack of opportunity, lucrative youth player contracts and a lack of development-specific coaching. In addition, the developmental environment and developing individuals within a team environment were key influences on youth-to-first-team transition. This study complements recent broad investigations of the UK and global stakeholders by corroborating many of their findings while providing transferable, context-specific accounts of applied issues related to successful transition to first-team football.		[McGuigan, Mark; Dello Iacono, Antonio; Cowan, Daryl; Unnithan, Viswanath B.] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Lanarkshire Campus, Glasgow, Scotland; [McRobert, Allistair] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [McGuigan, Mark] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Lanarkshire Campus, Glasgow, Scotland								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001031799100001	73	Article; Article		
J	Mulhearn, Shannon C.; Kulinna, Pamela H.; Lorenz, Kent A.								Classroom Teachers' Perceived Barriers to Implementing Comprehensive School Physical Activity Programs (TPB- CSPAP): Instrument Development								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			342	352		10.1080/02701367.2023.2206449			APR 2 2024	2024	Although physical education teachers generally act as the physical activity champion and promote adherence to whole-school physical activity programs, classroom teachers manage the majority of students' access to movement throughout the school day. Purpose: To support the adoption of a whole-school physical activity program, this study developed an instrument that identifies barriers perceived by classroom teachers related to adopting this type of program in their school. Method: A four-step process provided the conceptual framework for this instrument development (literature review, expert review, quantitative evaluation, and validation). The final validation phase (N = 520 teachers) included two individual analyses to separately evaluate respondents from elementary (K-5) and secondary levels (6-12). Each group was randomly split to run exploratory factor analysis (EFA) and confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) of the models. Results: CFA results support models with adequate fit to the data for barriers for elementary, e.g., (SRMR = 0.0726; Bentler CFI = 0.92.79) and secondary (SRMR = 0.0813; Bentler CFI = 0.9374) teachers for whole-school programming. Conclusion: This instrument can be used by school personnel and researchers to understand perceived barriers for classroom teachers to implement a whole-school physical activity program in their context and then follow up to remove or reduce the barriers.		[Mulhearn, Shannon C.] Univ Nebraska, Kearney, NE USA; [Kulinna, Pamela H.] Arizona State Univ, Tempe, AZ USA; [Lorenz, Kent A.] San Francisco State Univ, San Francisco, CA USA; [Mulhearn, Shannon C.] Univ Nebraska, 1410 W 26th St, Cushing 130, Kearney, NE 68849 USA; [Mulhearn, Shannon C.] Univ Nebraska, 1410 W 26th St, Cushing 130, Kearney, NE 68849 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001029496600001	60	Article; Article		
J	Martonick, Nickolai J. P.; McGowan, Craig P.; Baker, Russell T.; Larkins, Lindsay W.; Seegmiller, Jeff G.; Bailey, Joshua P.								Examining movement asymmetries during three single leg tasks using interlimb and single subject approaches								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				63				24	30		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.07.001			SEP 2023	2023	Purpose: s:To examine whether healthy individuals displayed asymmetric trunk and lower extremity kinematics in the frontal and sagittal planes using both interlimb and single subject models. Methods:Trunk, pelvis, and lower extremity kinematic waveforms were analyzed bilaterally during the single leg squat (SLS), forward step down (FSD), and lateral step down (LSD). Participants identified task specific preferred and non-preferred legs based on perceived stability for interlimb analyses. Movement patterns were also analyzed with a single subject approach that included Fisher's exact tests to assess whether asymmetries were related to the task. Results:Participants were found to have increased pelvic drop on the non-preferred leg during the LSD from 41 to 77% of the movement (p = 0.01). No other bilateral differences were found for interlimb analyses. Single subject analyses indicated that no task had a greater probability of finding or not finding asymmetries. Associations were found between the FSD and SLS for frontal plane hip (p < 0.01) and knee motion (p < 0.01). Conclusions:Interlimb analyses can be influenced by intraparticipant movement variability between preferred and non-preferred legs. Movement asymmetries during single leg weightbearing are likely task dependent and a battery of tests is necessary for assessing bilateral differences.		[Martonick, Nickolai J. P.; Bailey, Joshua P.] Univ Idaho, Dept Movement Sci, Moscow, ID 83844 USA; [McGowan, Craig P.; Larkins, Lindsay W.] Univ Southern Calif, Dept Integrat Anat Sci, Los Angeles, CA 90089 USA; [Martonick, Nickolai J. P.; Baker, Russell T.; Seegmiller, Jeff G.] Univ Idaho, WWAMI Med Educ Program, Moscow, ID 83844 USA; [Martonick, Nickolai J. P.] Univ Idaho, Dept Movement Sci, Moscow, ID 83844 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001049249200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Tanaka, Takahiro; Hashizume, Satoru; Kurihara, Toshiyuki; Isaka, Tadao								Vortex structure and fluid force changed by altering whole-body kinematic parameters during underwater undulatory swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	11			3159	3172		10.1080/14763141.2023.2233466			NOV 2 2025	2025	Swimmers generate vortices around their bodies during underwater undulatory swimming (UUS). Alteration of UUS movement would induce changes in vortex structure and fluid force. This study investigated whether a skilled swimmer's movement generated an effective vortex and fluid force for increasing the UUS velocity. A three-dimensional digital model and kinematic data yielded during UUS with maximum effort were collected for one skilled and one unskilled swimmer. The skilled swimmer's UUS kinematics were input into the skilled swimmer's model (SK-SM) and unskilled swimmer's model (SK-USM), followed by the kinematics of the unskilled swimmer (USK-USM and USK-SM, respectively). The vortex area, circulation, and peak drag force were determined using computational fluid dynamics. A larger vortex with greater circulation at the ventral side of the trunk and a greater circulation vortex behind the swimmer were observed in SK-USM compared to USK-USM. USK-SM generated a smaller vortex on the ventral side of the trunk and behind the swimmer, with a weaker circulation behind the swimmer compared to SK-SM. The peak drag force was larger for SK-USM than for USK-USM. Our results indicate that an effective vortex for propulsion was generated when a skilled swimmer's UUS kinematics was input in the other swimmer's model.		[Tanaka, Takahiro] Ritsumeikan Univ, Grad Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan; [Tanaka, Takahiro; Hashizume, Satoru; Isaka, Tadao] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan; [Kurihara, Toshiyuki] Kokushikan Univ, Sch Sci & Engn, Tokyo, Japan; [Tanaka, Takahiro] Ritsumeikan Univ, Grad Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001025793300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Nash, Christine; Crespo, Miguel								There is no substitute for hard work! Elite tennis coaches' reflections, learning and development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			1942	1951		10.1177/17479541231185233			DEC 2023	2023	Engaging with learning and development opportunities is the hall mark of a committed lifelong learner. In this study, we aimed to highlight the benefits of the learning and development achieved by participating coaches on the Olympic Solidarity (OS) Tennis programme. This coach development programme is a joint venture between OS, the International Tennis Federation, and its member nations to deliver certification courses for the coaches of advanced as well as high-performance players. This study is presented in two progressive parts: a web-based survey (Part 1) and semi-structured interviews (Part 2). In Part 2, we interviewed 12 participants from 12 different countries and four coach developers/tutors involved in programme delivery. The coaches in Part 1 were characterised by long-term engagement with tennis coaching and enhancing their own learning and development. Statistical analyses showed no significant difference between any of the variables examined. The interview analyses revealed three main themes: direction and strength of effort; perceived status and prestige of completion; and positivity and purpose. We conclude by discussing short-, medium-, and long-term advantages coaches identified from the programme.		[Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Valencia, Spain; [Nash, Christine] Univ Edinburgh, Appl Coaching Res Grp, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dev Dept, Bank Lane, London SW15 5XZ, England; [Nash, Christine] Univ Edinburgh, Appl Coaching Res Grp, Edinburgh, Scotland								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001025318800001	35	Article; Article		
J	Jain, Divya; Huber, Colin M.; Patton, Declan A.; McDonald, Catherine C.; Wang, Lei; Ayaz, Hasan; Master, Christina L.; Arbogast, Kristy B.								Use of functional near-infrared spectroscopy to quantify neurophysiological deficits after repetitive head impacts in adolescent athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1278	1292		10.1080/14763141.2023.2229790			MAY 4 2025	2025	There is concern that repetitive head impact exposure (RHIE) may lead to neurophysiological deficits in adolescents. Twelve high school varsity soccer players (5 female) completed the King-Devick (K-D) and complex tandem gait (CTG) assessments pre- and post-season while wearing a functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) sensor. The average head impact load (AHIL) for each athlete-season was determined via a standardised protocol of video-verification of headband-based head impact sensor data. Linear mixed effect models were used to determine the effects of AHIL and task condition (3 K-D cards or 4 CTG conditions) on the change in mean prefrontal cortical activation measured by fNIRS, and performance on K-D and CTG, from pre- to post-season. Although there was no difference in the pre- to post-season change in K-D or CTG performance, greater AHIL was associated with greater cortical activation at post-season in comparison to pre-season during the most challenging conditions of K-D (p = 0.003) and CTG (p = 0.02), suggesting that greater RHIE necessitates increased cortical activation to complete the more challenging aspects of these assessments at the same level of performance. These results describe the effect of RHIE on neurofunction and suggest the need for further study of the time course of these effects.		[Jain, Divya; Huber, Colin M.] Univ Penn, Dept Bioengn, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Jain, Divya; Huber, Colin M.; Patton, Declan A.; McDonald, Catherine C.; Ayaz, Hasan; Master, Christina L.; Arbogast, Kristy B.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Ctr Injury Res & Prevent, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [McDonald, Catherine C.; Ayaz, Hasan] Univ Penn, Sch Nursing, Philadelphia, PA USA; [McDonald, Catherine C.; Master, Christina L.; Arbogast, Kristy B.] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Dept Pediat, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Wang, Lei] Drexel Univ, Coll Comp & Informat, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Wang, Lei] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Data Sci & Biostat Unit, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Ayaz, Hasan] Drexel Univ, Sch Biomed Engn Sci & Hlth Syst, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Ayaz, Hasan] Drexel Univ, Coll Arts & Sci, Dept Psychol & Brain Sci, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Ayaz, Hasan] Drexel Univ, Drexel Solut Inst, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Master, Christina L.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Sports Med & Performance Ctr, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Jain, Divya] Univ Penn, Dept Bioengn, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Jain, Divya] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Ctr Injury Res & Prevent, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001025540000001	56	Article; Article		
J	Koopmann, Till; Faber, Irene R.; Lath, Franziska; Loffing, Florian; Schorer, Joerg								Exploring the subjective beliefs of expert coaches on 'talent' and player selection in German table tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			1952	1963		10.1177/17479541231185544			DEC 2023	2023	Player development programmes in sports are considered crucial pillars for the development of young players and countries' international sporting success. As resources are limited, coaches preferably decide which players to select for these programmes at a young age. This is particularly true for early-starting sports such as table tennis. However, the selection criteria used by coaches and the decision-making processes in player selection contexts are widely unknown. To address this gap, we conducted 15 in-depth semi-structured interviews with table tennis coaches with high expertise in the identification and development of talented young players. Here we show that the concept of 'talent' and the process of player selection in table tennis are highly complex phenomena with three main areas of interest identified: (a) general aspects regarding 'talent' (in table tennis), (b) specific selection criteria including individual as well as environmental aspects, and (c) the process of player selection. One main finding is that coaches see 'talent' as dependent on various factors including (relative) age, maturation as well as practice and previous experience. Furthermore, coaches appear to include both individual (e.g., technical skills) and environmental criteria (e.g., parents' support) in their decision-making process. Finally, the interviews revealed that player selection decisions are usually made by multiple coaches during group meetings, suggesting the relevance of group processes and dynamics. In summary, this study provides new findings regarding the understanding and discovery of 'talent' in table tennis that can help practitioners and open new avenues for further research on player selection in sports.		[Koopmann, Till; Faber, Irene R.; Lath, Franziska; Schorer, Joerg] Carl von Ossietzky Univ Oldenburg, Inst Sport Sci, Oldenburg, Germany; [Faber, Irene R.] Windesheim Univ Appl Sci, Res Ctr Human Movement & Educ, Zwolle, Netherlands; [Lath, Franziska] Inst Appl Sport Sci, Leipzig, Germany; [Loffing, Florian] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Psychol, Cologne, Germany; [Koopmann, Till] Carl von Ossietzky Univ Oldenburg, Inst Sport Sci, Ammerlander Heerstr 114-118, D-26129 Oldenburg, Germany; [Koopmann, Till] Carl von Ossietzky Univ Oldenburg, Inst Sport Sci, Ammerlander Heerstr 114-118, D-26129 Oldenburg, Germany								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001020620200001	55	Article; Article		
J	Girdwood, Michael A.; Patterson, Brooke E.; Crossley, Kay M.; Guermazi, Ali; Whitehead, Tim S.; Morris, Hayden G.; Rio, Ebonie K.; Culvenor, Adam G.								Hip rotation muscle strength is implicated in the progression of early post-traumatic osteoarthritis: A longitudinal evaluation up to 5 years following ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				63				17	23		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.06.001			SEP 2023	2023	Introduction: Following ACL reconstruction (ACLR), deficits in hip muscle strength and relationships to future outcomes are unknown. Methods: 111 participants one year after ACLR, completed hip external rotation (ER) and internal rotation (IR) strength assessment. At 1 (n = 111) and 5 (n = 74) years post-ACLR, participants completed a battery of functional, symptomatic (Knee Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)) and structural assessments (radiography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)). Cartilage health of the patellofemoral and tibiofemoral compartments was assessed with the semiquantitative MRI Osteoarthritis Knee Score. Hip rotation strength was compared betweenlimbs, and relationships between hip strength at 1 year and functional, symptomatic and cartilage outcomes at 1 and 5 years were investigated with regression models.Results: The index (ACLR) limb had weaker hip ER (but not IR) strength compared to the contralateral side (standardised mean difference ER = -0.33 (95%CI -0.60, -0.07; IR = -0.11 (95%CI -0.37, 0.15). Greater hip ER and IR strength was associated with superior function at 1 and 5 years, and better KOOS-Patellofemoral symptoms at 5 years. Greater hip ER strength was associated with lower odds of worsening tibiofemoral cartilage lesions at 5 years (odds ratio 0.01, 95%CI 0.00, 0.41). Conclusion: Hip rotation strength may play a role in worsening function, symptoms and cartilage health after ACLR.		[Girdwood, Michael A.; Patterson, Brooke E.; Crossley, Kay M.; Rio, Ebonie K.; Culvenor, Adam G.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Girdwood, Michael A.; Patterson, Brooke E.; Crossley, Kay M.; Rio, Ebonie K.; Culvenor, Adam G.] La Trobe Univ, Australian IOC Ctr Prevent Injury & Protect Athlet, Bundoora, Australia; [Guermazi, Ali] Boston Univ, Sch Med, Boston, MA USA; [Whitehead, Tim S.] OrthoSport Victoria, Melbourne, Australia; [Morris, Hayden G.] Pk Clin Orthopaed, Melbourne, Australia; [Culvenor, Adam G.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Univ Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Culvenor, Adam G.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Univ Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001040386100001	47	Article; Article		
J	Wu, Ji; Orr, Madeleine; Inoue, Yuhei; Chang, Yonghwan								Drivers of the perceived social impact of the Super Bowl: mediation and moderation analyses								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	5			837	852		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2022-0208			NOV 2 2023	2023	PurposeBuilding on the social leverage model (SLM), this study aims to examine the influence of event-related attributes on residents' perceived social impact of a major sport event, as mediated by event involvement. It also investigates the moderating effect of event rights holders' credibility on the relationship between event involvement and perceived social impact.Design/methodology/approachUsing a two-wave, time-lagged survey, data were collected from 220 residents of a Super Bowl host city. Hypotheses were tested using structural equation modeling (SEM).FindingsHigh celebratory atmosphere, social camaraderie and social responsibility as perceived before the event were associated with residents' perceptions of the social impact of the Super Bowl. Moreover, the association between social camaraderie and perceived social impact was mediated by event involvement. When appraising the rights holder as credible, involved residents reported an increased level of perceived social impact.Originality/valueThis study contributes to research on the SLM by demonstrating its application among indirect participants of major sport events. Additionally, it suggests the imperative role of rights holders' credibility in promoting the perceived social impact among involved residents.		[Wu, Ji] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Orr, Madeleine] Loughborough Univ, Inst Sport Business, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Inoue, Yuhei] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Manchester, England; [Chang, Yonghwan] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Gainesville, FL USA; [Wu, Ji] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001017941300001	45	Article; Article		
J	Perez, Fernando; de la Rubia, Alfonso; Canadas, Enrique; Lorenzo-Calvo, Jorge; Marquina, Moises; Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos								Musculoskeletal injury prevalence in professional padel players. A retrospective study of the 2021 season								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				63				9	16		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.06.003			SEP 2023	2023	Objectives: To investigate the influence of the gender, ranking and playing position on the musculoskeletal injuries in professional padel players. Design: An epidemiological, observational, descriptive, retrospective cross-sectional study.Participants: 44 injuries were reported by 36 players (20 men/16 women) who participated in the World Padel Tour 2021.Setting: Online questionnaire.Main outcome measure: Descriptive statistics and injury prevalence were calculated. Spearman/Pearson correlations between sample characteristics and injury variables were calculated. The chi-square test was used to analyse the association between injury and descriptive variables. A Mann-Whitney U test was performed to compare the group differences with regard to days of absence.Results: The results showed different injury prevalence (x1000 matches) in male (10.50) and female players (15.10). A higher injury incidence in top-ranked players, both in male (44.40%) and female (58.33%) was identified, but the low-ranked players reported more severe injuries (>28 days) (p < 0.05). Top-ranked players suffered more muscle injuries (p < 0.01) and low-ranked players suffered more tendon injuries (p < 0.01). Gender, ranking and playing position did not influence the days of absence (p > 0.05).Conclusions: This study confirms that gender and ranking position had an impact on the injury prevalence in professional padel players.		[Perez, Fernando; de la Rubia, Alfonso; Canadas, Enrique; Lorenzo-Calvo, Jorge; Marquina, Moises; Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte INEF, Dept Deportes, Deporte & Entrenamiento Res Grp, C Martin Fierro 7, Madrid 28040, Spain; [Garcia-Sanchez, Carlos] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Act Fis & Deporte INEF, Dept Deportes, Deporte & Entrenamiento Res Grp, C Martin Fierro 7, Madrid 28040, Spain								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001037840300001	44	Article; Article		
J	Walshe, Ayrton; Daly, Ed; Ryan, Lisa								Existence =/adherence. Exploring barriers to best practice in sports-related concussion return to play (SRC-RTP) in Irish amateur female sport								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				63				1	8		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.06.004			SEP 2023	2023	Objectives: Sports-Related Concussion (SRCs) are of relevant risk and burden for female athletes. The following study aimed to explore potential barriers to return to play (RTP) best practice in coaches of amateur female athletes, and medical professionals who may treat and manage SRCs in amateur female athletes.Design: Qualitative, semi-structured, virtual interviews following a critical analysis framework.Methods: Twenty-five coaches, allied healthcare professionals (AHPs), and general practitioners (GPs) were recruited and interviewed using a convenience snowball sample. Data were transcribed verbatim and thematically analysed.Results: Three themes were identified following reflexive thematic analysis; biopsychosocial norms, stakeholder inaction, and practitioner effectiveness. The findings identify numerous factors which limit the uptake of best practice guidelines as endorsed by Irish national governing bodies (NGBs). Education, training, and implementation of these guidelines are lacking, with sub-standard or non-existent medical support and poor general injury and/or SRC attitudes providing further resistance to these measures.Conclusion: Existence of SRC-RTP protocols does not equal adherence to such. Greater efforts are required to translate knowledge provided by the 6th Concussion Consensus statement. NGBs, league and club administrators, and educators need to better support coaches, practitioners and athletes in the implementation of these protocols in amateur female sport.		[Walshe, Ayrton; Daly, Ed; Ryan, Lisa] Atlantic Technol Univ, Dept Sports Exercise & Nutr, Galway City, Ireland; [Ryan, Lisa] Atlantic Technol Univ, Dept Sports Exercise & Nutr, Galway City, Ireland								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001034734100001	31	Article; Article		
J	Sattler, Liz; Shreffler, Megan; Popp, Nels; Pierce, David								A "toxic culture": the experiences of underrepresented ticket sales employees across professional sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	3			500	518		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2022-0004			JUL 31 2023	2023	PurposeThe purpose of this exploratory study was to examine the workplace experiences of current and former underrepresented ticket sales employees.Design/methodology/approachThe study utilized survey methodology to answer the research questions. Purposive sampling was used to identify potential respondents: individuals who were either currently employed as sport ticket sales employees or had been previously. The researchers examined online media guides from North American major league sports teams and identified ticket sales representatives who were compiled into a database and then cross-referenced through social media platform LinkedIn. Individuals were located via LinkedIn profiles and sent an anonymous, electronic survey which included a combination of Likert scale and open-ended questions regarding respondent experiences working in ticket sales departments.FindingsSurvey responses from 511 ticket salespeople revealed negative experiences related to management and career advancement opportunities, as well as significant differences in negative experiences for underrepresented populations regarding mentorship and culture.Originality/valueSport sales managers desire to expand employee diversity (Wells et al., 2019) and improve overall retention rates, but if a clear understanding of organizational vision toward diversification is not established within sports teams, managers are less likely to embrace diversity initiatives. Thus, it is imperative to understand the lived experiences of underrepresented ticket salespeople in order to improve workplace culture and effectiveness.		[Sattler, Liz] Illinois State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Recreat, Normal, IL 61761 USA; [Shreffler, Megan] Univ Louisville, Louisville, KY USA; [Popp, Nels] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Carrboro, NC USA; [Pierce, David] Indiana Univ, Bloomington, IN USA; [Sattler, Liz] Illinois State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Recreat, Normal, IL 61761 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001018931700001	72	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Xiaotian; Shao, Xuerong; Yu, Ruoni; Wang, Yudi; Deng, Fawei; Adams, Roger; Han, Jia								Acute effects of kinesiology tape on dynamic balance control in chronic ankle instability: An exploratory study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				62				65	70		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.06.005			JUL 2023	2023	Objective: To investigate the acute effect of the four-strip kinesiology taping (KT) technique on dynamic balance control in the Y Balance Test (YBT), and to explore the relationship between the YBT and Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT) scores in individuals with and without chronic ankle instability (CAI).Methods: 16 CAI and 16 non-CAI participants were involved. Two groups completed the YBT in the no-tape barefoot and the KT condition at random. The CAIT was completed on the first day. Bonferroni test was used to analyze YBT scores in three directions for post hoc analysis. Spearman's correlation was used to analyze the relationship between YBT scores in the no-tape barefoot condition and CAIT scores.Results: This KT application significantly improved YBT performance. The YBT scores in the anterior direction (YBT-A), posteromedial direction (YBT-PM), and posterolateral direction (YBT-PL) for the CAI group were significantly improved after taping. However, in the non-CAI group, only YBT-PM score was significantly improved after taping. Three YBT scores were all moderately correlated with the CAIT score. Conclusion: This KT technique can immediately improve dynamic balance in CAI patients. Dynamic balance performance was moderately related to the degree of self-perceived instability in individuals with and without CAI.		[Wang, Xiaotian] Jinhua Hosp Tradit Chinese Med, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol, Jinhua, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Shao, Xuerong] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Exercise & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Yu, Ruoni] Jinhua Polytech, Sch Med, Jinhua, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yudi] Chengdu Coll Arts & Sci, Sch Phys Educ & Nursing, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Deng, Fawei] Nanchang Univ, Affiliated Hosp 2, Dept Rehabil, Nanchang, Jiangxi, Peoples R China; [Adams, Roger] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sports & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Han, Jia] Swinburne Univ Technol, Fac Hlth Arts & Design, Hawthorn, ACT, Australia; [Han, Jia] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Coll Rehabil Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001029302000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Yildiz, Mehmet; Akyildiz, Zeki; Gunay, Mehmet; Clemente, Filipe Manuel								Relationship Between Training Load, Neuromuscular Fatigue, and Daily Well-Being in Elite Young Wrestlers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			303	312		10.1080/02701367.2023.2198575			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study investigated acute workload (wAW), chronic workload (wCW), acute: chronic workload ratio (wACWR), training monotony (wTM), perceived load training strain indicators (wTS), and countermove- ment jump (CMJ) as indicators of wellness in one season and defined weekly variations. In addition, we analyzed the relationships between training load measurements and weekly reports. Methods: 16 elite young wrestlers were monitored daily with individual observations for 46 consecutive weeks throughout the season. Training load was obtained using the session rating of perceived effort. wSleep, wStress, wFatigue & wMuscle Soreness well-being were monitored daily using the Hooper index. Results: As a result of the analysis, it was found that there is a moderate relationship (r = 0.51, p = .003) between ACWR and w mean load (A.U.) and a high relationship (r = 0.81, p < .001) between monotony and strain.Conclusion: All variables other than ACWR, w mean load, strain, and monotony presented small and statistically insignificant relationships. These results provide coaches and practitioners with new insights into perceived loads and health changes during a season at the elite youth level.		[Yildiz, Mehmet] Afyon Kocatepe Univ, Kocatepe, Turkiye; [Akyildiz, Zeki; Gunay, Mehmet] Gazi Univ, Ankara, Turkiye; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Madrid, Spain; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Madrid, Spain; [Akyildiz, Zeki] Gazi Univ, Sports Sci Fac, Ankara, Turkiye; [Akyildiz, Zeki] Gazi Univ, Sports Sci Fac, Ankara, Turkiye								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001015425700001	65	Article; Article		
J	Rivera-Ochoa, Maria; Lopez-Gil, Jose F.; Brazo-Sayavera, Javier; Pantoja-Arevalo, Lisset; Gonzalez-Gross, Marcela; Vizmanos-Lamotte, Barbara; Guadalupe-Grau, Amelia								Clustering Health Behaviors in Mexican Adolescents: The HELENA-MEX Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			281	288		10.1080/02701367.2023.2195458			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The prevalence of excess weight within the adolescent population is rapidly increasing in Mexico, especially in areas with lower socioeconomic status. The present study aimed to identify lifestyle clustered patterns in adolescents and analyze the associations among these clusters and body composition. Method: A final sample of n=259 participants (13 to 17 years old, 58.7% girls), residents in rural and urban areas, were included. Hierarchical and k-means clusters analyses included moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA), cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF), handgrip strength, screen time, sleep time, and diet. The associations between cluster membership and body composition were analyzed through general linear models (ANCOVA), including sex, age, place of residence, and socioeconomic status as covariates. Results: Three different clusters were identified: Cluster 1, [Unhealthy] (low values in all lifestyle patterns), Cluster 2, [Low Physical Fitness] (low values in CRF and handgrip strength) and Cluster 3, [High Physical Activity and CRF] (highest values in CRF, handgrip strength and MVPA). Clusters 2 and 3 showed high values in screen time and industrialized food consumption. There were no differences in sleep between the 3 Clusters. ANCOVA analysis revealed that participants belonging to Cluster 3 showed significantly lower adiposity and a higher Fat Free Mass compared with the other two clusters (p < 0.05). Conclusion: Our findings suggest that a lifestyle characterized by high levels of physical activity and physical fitness and low consumption of industrialized food may be protective against the problem of obesity, which could be helpful to develop interventions to reduce excess weight in Mexican adolescents.		[Rivera-Ochoa, Maria; Pantoja-Arevalo, Lisset; Gonzalez-Gross, Marcela; Guadalupe-Grau, Amelia] Univ Politecn Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Rivera-Ochoa, Maria; Vizmanos-Lamotte, Barbara] Univ Guadalajara, Guadalajara, Spain; [Lopez-Gil, Jose F.] Univ Publ Navarra UPNA, Hosp Univ Navarra HUN, IdiSNA, Pamplona, Spain; [Lopez-Gil, Jose F.] Harvard Univ, TH Chan Sch Publ Hlth, Boston, MA USA; [Lopez-Gil, Jose F.] Univ Amer, Mexico City, Mexico; [Brazo-Sayavera, Javier] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain; [Guadalupe-Grau, Amelia] Inst Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain; [Guadalupe-Grau, Amelia] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Toledo, Spain; [Guadalupe-Grau, Amelia] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Dept Act Fis & Ciencias Deporte, Ave Carlos III S-N, Toledo 45002, Spain; [Vizmanos-Lamotte, Barbara] Univ Guadalajara, Ctr Univ Ciencias Salud, Sierra Mojada 950, Guadalajara 44340, Mexico								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001017513000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Souza, Marcos S. A.; Valadao, Victoria M. A.; Teruyu, Ana I.; Fernandes, Luciane F. R. M.; Dionisio, Valdeci C.; Gasparini, Andrea L. P.; Lobato, Daniel F. M.								Can gluteal muscle activation discriminate functional performance in moderately trained women?-A cross-sectional study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3602	3614		10.1080/14763141.2023.2228281			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study verified whether the level of gluteal activation during a controlled maximum voluntary contraction may discriminate functional performance in women. Forty-five moderately trained women were assigned to two groups based on the level of gluteal muscle activation on maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) tests in the dominant limb: higher gluteal activation (HG-n = 22) and lower gluteal activation (LG-n = 22), considering different situations: a) level of activation of the gluteus medius muscle (GMed), b) level of activation of the gluteus maximus muscle (GMax), and c) level of combined activation of the GMed and GMax muscles. The cut-off values for the allocation of participants to groups in each situation were established as a function of the median values of each data set. Functional performance was assessed using the shuttle run, triple hop test, and six-metre timed hop test (STHT). The level of significance was set at 5%. Cohen's d index was included to estimate the magnitude of existing differences. The HG showed significantly shorter times than the LG on STHT performance (p-values ranging from 0.03-0.04), with a moderate effect (Cohen's d = 0.60-0.68) in all situations. The level of gluteal activation could discriminate STHT performance in women.		[Souza, Marcos S. A.; Valadao, Victoria M. A.; Teruyu, Ana I.; Lobato, Daniel F. M.] Univ Fed Triangulo Mineiro, Appl Phys Therapy Dept, Human Movement Anal Lab, Uberaba, Brazil; [Fernandes, Luciane F. R. M.; Gasparini, Andrea L. P.] Univ Fed Triangulo Mineiro, Appl Phys Therapy Dept, Biomech & Motor Control Res Lab, Uberaba, Brazil; [Dionisio, Valdeci C.] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Neuromech & Physiotherapy Lab, Uberlandia, Brazil; [Lobato, Daniel F. M.] Univ Fed Triangulo Mineiro, Appl Phys Therapy Dept, Human Movement Anal Lab, Uberaba, Brazil								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001017493200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Olmos, Alex A.; Sontag, Stephanie A.; Sterczala, Adam J.; Parra, Mandy E.; Dimmick, Hannah L.; Miller, Jonathan D.; Deckert, Jake A.; Herda, Trent J.; Trevino, Michael A.								High-Intensity Cycling Training Necessitates Increased Neuromuscular Demand of the Vastus Lateralis During a Fatiguing Contraction								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	2			313	324		10.1080/02701367.2023.2201311			APR 2 2024	2024	Purpose: To examine the effects of a 5-week continuous cycling training intervention on electromyographic amplitude (EMG(RMS))- and mechanomyographic amplitude (MMG(RMS))-torque relationships of the vastus lateralis (VL) during a prolonged contraction. Methods: Twenty-four sedentary, young adults performed maximal voluntary contractions (MVCs) and a prolonged isometric trapezoidal contraction at the same absolute 40% MVC for the knee extensors before (PRE) and after training (POSTABS). Individual b- (slopes) and a-terms (y-intercepts) were calculated from the log-transformed electromyographic amplitude (EMG(RMS))- and mechanomyographic amplitude (MMG(RMS))-torque relationships during the increasing and decreasing segments of the trapezoid. EMG(RMS) and MMG(RMS) was normalized for the 45-s steady torque segment. Results: At PRE, b-terms for the EMG(RMS)-torque relationships during the linearly decreasing segment were greater than the increasing segment (p < .001), and decreased from PRE to POSTABS (p = .027). a-terms were greater during the linearly increasing than decreasing segment at PRE, while the a-terms for the linearly decreasing segment increased from PRE to POSTABS (p = .027). For the MMG(RMS)-torque relationships, b-terms during the linearly decreasing segment decreased from PRE to POSTABS (p = .013), while a-terms increased from PRE to POSTABS when collapsed across segments (p = .022). Steady torque EMG(RMS) increased for POSTABS (p < .001). Conclusion: Although cycling training increased aerobic endurance, incorporating resistance training may benefit athletes/individuals as the alterations in neuromuscular parameters post-training suggest a greater neural cost (EMG(RMS)) and mechanical output (MMG(RMS)) to complete the same pre-training fatiguing contraction.		[Olmos, Alex A.; Sontag, Stephanie A.; Trevino, Michael A.] Oklahoma State Univ, Stillwater, OK 74074 USA; [Sterczala, Adam J.] Univ Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Parra, Mandy E.] Univ Mary Hardin Baylor, Belton, TX USA; [Dimmick, Hannah L.] Univ Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Miller, Jonathan D.; Herda, Trent J.] Univ Kansas, Lawrence, KS USA; [Deckert, Jake A.] Gonzaga Univ, Spokane, WA USA; [Trevino, Michael A.] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Appl Neuromuscular Physiol Lab, 191 CRC, Stillwater, OK 74074 USA; [Trevino, Michael A.] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Appl Neuromuscular Physiol Lab, 191 CRC, Stillwater, OK 74074 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001015473900001	54	Article; Article		
J	Doyle, Eoin W.; Doyle, Tim L. A.; Bonacci, Jason; Beach, Aaron J.; Fuller, Joel T.								Cumulative patellofemoral force and stress are lower during faster running compared to slower running in recreational runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1250	1262		10.1080/14763141.2023.2226111			MAY 4 2025	2025	Management strategies for patellofemoral pain often involve modifying running distance or speed. However, the optimal modification strategy to manage patellofemoral joint (PFJ) force and stress accumulated during running warrants further investigation. This study investigated the effect of running speed on peak and cumulative PFJ force and stress in recreational runners. Twenty recreational runners ran on an instrumented treadmill at four speeds (2.5-4.2 m/s). A musculoskeletal model derived peak and cumulative (per 1 km of continuous running) PFJ force and stress for each speed. Cumulative PFJ force and stress decreased with faster speeds (9.3-33.6% reduction for 3.1-4.2 m/s vs. 2.5 m/s). Peak PFJ force and stress significantly increased with faster speeds (9.3-35.6% increase for 3.1-4.2 m/s vs. 2.5 m/s). The largest cumulative PFJ kinetics reductions occurred when speeds increased from 2.5 to 3.1 m/s (13.7-14.2%). Running at faster speeds increases the magnitude of peak PFJ kinetics but conversely results in less accumulated force over a set distance. Selecting moderate running speeds (similar to 3.1 m/s) with reduced training duration or an interval-based approach may be more effective for managing cumulative PFJ kinetics compared to running at slow speeds.		[Doyle, Eoin W.; Doyle, Tim L. A.; Beach, Aaron J.; Fuller, Joel T.] Macquarie Univ, Fac Med Hlth & Human Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Doyle, Eoin W.; Doyle, Tim L. A.; Fuller, Joel T.] Macquarie Univ, Biomech Phys Performance & Exercise Res Grp, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Bonacci, Jason] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sports Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Burwood, Vic, Australia; [Doyle, Eoin W.] Macquarie Univ, Fac Med Hlth & Human Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Doyle, Eoin W.] Macquarie Univ, Biomech Phys Performance & Exercise Res Grp, Sydney, NSW, Australia								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001013574900001	43	Article; Article		
J	Perri, Thomas; Duffield, Rob; Murphy, Alistair; Mabon, Tom; McGillivray, Isabel; Reid, Machar								Macro periodisation of competition in international women's tennis: Insights for long-term athlete development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			788	796		10.1177/17479541231171695			APR 2024	2024	Aims This study reports the multi-year periodised international competition engagement of elite top 100 [T100] and 250 [T250] female tennis players during their youth. Methods Tournament data was analysed for 258 female players from 13 to 18 years of age. Players were categorised into groups based on peak professional ranking of T100 or T250. 'Fast' or 'slow' achieving T100 players were further classified according to the years taken to achieve a professional T100 status. International tournament and match volumes were quantified for junior and professional categories, along with measures of competition density (i.e., time between tournaments and consecutive tournaments). Tournament quality and category were determined by ranking point offerings. A two-way analysis of variance determined the effects of age and ranking group on tournament play. Results Significant interaction effects for age and ranking group were observed for all junior and professional category tournaments (p < .05). Significantly higher annual junior tournament volumes featured in the schedules of T100 at ages 14 and 15 (p < .05) while participation in annual professional tournaments increased for all players at ages 17 and 18 (p < .05). The top 100 players played more annual matches than the T250 group at 14-16 years (p < .05). Significant main effects for age revealed decreased days between tournaments and increased consecutive tournaments at 15 years (p < .05). Conclusions Increased volume and density of tournament-play exist from 14 years professional female tennis players. Faster achieving T100 players contest higher-quality junior and professional tournaments at earlier ages. These distinctive tournament characteristics can underpin training and competition scheduling recommendations used by national tennis federations.		[Perri, Thomas; Duffield, Rob; McGillivray, Isabel] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Murphy, Alistair; Mabon, Tom; McGillivray, Isabel; Reid, Machar] Tennis Australia, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Perri, Thomas] Queensland Tennis Ctr, 190 King Arthur Terrace, Tennyson, Qld 4105, Australia; [Perri, Thomas] Queensland Tennis Ctr, 190 King Arthur Terrace, Tennyson, Qld 4105, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001018004500001	35	Article; Article		
J	Nunome, Hiroyuki; Inoue, Koichiro; Watanabe, Kohei; Akima, Hiroshi								Dynamic adjustment of submaximal effort soccer side-foot kicks								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	1			65	79		10.1080/14763141.2023.2227156			JAN 2 2025	2025	We aimed to illustrate kicking leg dynamics during submaximal effort soccer side-foot kicks. Side-foot kicks with three effort levels (50, 75 and 100% effort levels based on maximal effort) of eight male university soccer players were captured (500 Hz) while initial ball velocities were monitored simultaneously. Systematic regulation in joint kinetics (angular impulses) was clearly demonstrated for hip flexion and knee extension moments thereby supporting the interpretation that the final foot velocity is controlled in a context of a planar, sequential segmental system. Out of the thigh-shank plane motion (hip external rotation moment) was also found to be systematically adjusted. Kinematic contributions of knee extension angular velocity to the final foot velocity increased significantly in the maximal effort while that of hip external rotation reduced significantly, coinciding with a more straightforward approach-run. The adjustable range of the foot-ball interaction was found to be rather smaller in side-foot kicks. However, significantly smaller ball/foot velocity ratios in the two submaximal conditions suggested ankle joint fixation was manipulated towards ball impact. Players and coaches ought to recognise that the intensities of side-foot kicks were regulated by the motions within and without the thigh-shank plane alongside several kinematic changes.		[Nunome, Hiroyuki] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Inoue, Koichiro] Yamagata Univ, Fac Educ Art & Sci, Yamagata, Japan; [Watanabe, Kohei] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Toyota, Japan; [Akima, Hiroshi] Nagoya Univ, Res Ctr Hlth, Phys Fitness & Sports, Nagoya, Japan; [Nunome, Hiroyuki] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001013494500001	28	Article; Article		
J	Salmon, Danielle M.; Badenhorst, Marelise; Brown, James; Romanchuk, Janelle; Kerr, Zachary Yukio; Walters, Simon; Clacy, Amanda; Keung, Sierra; Sullivan, S. John; Register-Mihalik, Johna; Whatman, Chris								Concussion education for New Zealand high school rugby players: A mixed-method analysis of the impact on concussion knowledge, attitudes and reporting behaviours								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			99	112		10.1177/17479541231156159			FEB 2024	2024	Players who lack the knowledge to recognise the signs and symptoms of concussions may be less likely to disclose their injury. New Zealand Rugby's Community Concussion Initiative includes an interactive education session highlighting peer-recognition of concussions. This mixed-method study examined the effect of an education session on high school players' concussion knowledge and attitudes as well as the impact of player demographics on these variables. Focus groups were used to explore player experiences. The RoCKAS-ST was used to measure concussion knowledge/attitudes before and after the education session. Multiple linear regression examined associations between demographic variables, including school decile (relative wealth of the geographic region the school serves), and pre-education concussion knowledge/attitudes scores. Wilcoxon signed-rank tests compared pre-concussion and post-concussion knowledge/attitudes scores. Qualitative data were analysed via thematic analysis. Overall, 532 players completed questionnaires; 75 players participated in focus groups. Pasifika players had lower concussion knowledge than NZ Europeans (p < .001). Mid-decile schools had higher concussion attitudes scores than low decile schools (p < .001). Pre-education and post-education session concussion attitudes and knowledge scores did not differ significantly, suggesting the one-off education session was not successful in improving these outcomes. Players identified: (i) the education session to be valuable, but some uncertainties remained; (ii) the importance of player comfort, interaction and comprehension; (iii) the need for role models, real stories and regular content refreshers. Requests for presenter diversity, support and easily understood information were more prominent in Maori/Pasifika and low-decile groups. Greater consideration of these factors is necessary in the development of education interventions.		[Salmon, Danielle M.; Romanchuk, Janelle; Sullivan, S. John] New Zealand Rugby, POB 2172, Wellington 6140, New Zealand; [Badenhorst, Marelise; Walters, Simon; Keung, Sierra; Whatman, Chris] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Sch Sport and Recreat, Auckland, New Zealand; [Brown, James] Stellenbosch Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Kerr, Zachary Yukio; Register-Mihalik, Johna] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Matthew Gfeller Sport Related Traumat Brain Injury, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Kerr, Zachary Yukio; Register-Mihalik, Johna] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Kerr, Zachary Yukio; Register-Mihalik, Johna] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Clacy, Amanda] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Law & Soc, Maroochydore, Australia; [Salmon, Danielle M.] New Zealand Rugby, POB 2172, Wellington 6140, New Zealand								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001014553700001	52	Article; Article		
J	Orantes-Gonzalez, Eva; Heredia-Jimenez, Jose; Lindley, Steven B.; Richards, Jim D.; Chapman, Graham J.								An exploration of the motor unit behaviour during the concentric and eccentric phases of a squat task performed at different speeds								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	10			3081	3092		10.1080/14763141.2023.2221682			OCT 3 2025	2025	Despite squatting being important in strength training and rehabilitation, few studies have investigated motor unit (MU) behaviour. This study explored the MU behaviour of vastus medialis (VM) and vastus lateralis (VL) during the concentric and eccentric phases of a squat exercise performed at two speeds. Twenty-two participants had surface dEMG sensors attached over VM and VL, and IMUs recorded thigh and shank angular velocities. Participants performed squats at 15 and 25 repetitions per minute in a randomised order, and EMG signals were decomposed into their MU action potential trains. A four factor (muscle x speed x contraction phase x sexes) mixed methods ANOVA revealed significant main effects for MU firing rates between speeds, between muscles and between sexes, but not contraction phases. Post hoc analysis showed significantly greater MU firing rates and amplitudes in VM. A significant interaction was seen between speed and the contraction phases. Further analysis revealed significantly greater firing rates during the concentric compared to the eccentric phases, and between speeds during the eccentric phase only. VM and VL respond differently during squatting depending on speed and contraction phase. These new insights in VM and VL MU behvaviour may be useful when designing training and rehabilitation protocols.		[Orantes-Gonzalez, Eva] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Fac Sports, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Heredia-Jimenez, Jose] Univ Granada, Fac Educ Econ & Technol, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Ceuta, Spain; [Lindley, Steven B.] Delsys Europe, Manchester, England; [Richards, Jim D.; Chapman, Graham J.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Allied Hlth Res Unit, Preston, England; [Chapman, Graham J.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Allied Hlth Res Unit, Preston, England								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001011742700001	41	Article; Article		
J	Dunn, Stephanie Schartel; Nisbett, Gwen S. S.								When celebrity endorsements collide with social activism: exploring athlete celebrity endorsements, social issues and brand perception								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	3			558	569		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2023-0010			JUL 31 2023	2023	PurposeCelebrity endorsements are common, especially sports celebrities. Understanding the impact such celebrities' social activism statements have on the brands the celebrities are affiliated with is particularly important. This study aims to examine how consumers respond to social statements made by both companies and sports celebrities and how those reactions influence consumer perceptions of associated brands.Design/methodology/approachA pre-test/post-test experimental design was utilized to gather responses to pro-social messages from both athletes associated with a brand and messages directly from the brands.FindingsMessages from celebrities were evaluated as being more important than similar messages directly from the company. Parasocial relationships between the consumer and the celebrity endorser were found to increase brand support and favorable message evaluation. While parasocial relationships did not directly influence feelings of reactance, the effects on message evaluation did lead to a decrease in reactance to pro-social messages.Originality/valueFindings in this paper provide guidance for brands as the brands navigate pro-social messaging and determine the brands' response to endorsers making such statements. Similarly, those advocating for social causes can benefit from the authors' findings by understanding how social messages directly from celebrities are received more favorably than messages directly from the brands.		[Dunn, Stephanie Schartel] Winona State Univ, Coll Business, Winona, MN 55987 USA; [Nisbett, Gwen S. S.] Univ North Texas, Mayborn Sch Journalism, Denton, TX USA; [Dunn, Stephanie Schartel] Winona State Univ, Coll Business, Winona, MN 55987 USA								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001010060400001	47	Article; Article		
J	AbouRokbah, Safinaz; Salam, Mohammad Asif								Quality and satisfaction in female fitness centers and the moderating roles of age and income: empirical evidence from Saudi Arabia								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			753	770		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2022-0186			OCT 11 2023	2023	PurposeFitness centers have become quotidian fundamentals. Consequently, center managers face escalating competitiveness to sustain their businesses. Saudi Arabia's Vision 2030 emphasizes quality of life and the gravitation toward healthy lifestyles. The service quality of fitness centers is an essential factor influencing customer satisfaction. Owing to the dearth of research on this topic, especially on female-only fitness centers, this study aims to investigate the factors affecting the service quality of female fitness centers in Saudi Arabia regarding satisfaction. Additionally, this study examines the moderating roles of age and income on the relationship between service quality and satisfaction.Design/methodology/approachThe Service Quality Assessment Scale (SQAS) was adopted with five of the original dimensions (staff, workout facilities, physical facilities, exercise program and locker room) and two newly added dimensions (parking and social environment). This study also investigates the moderating roles of age and income on the relationship between service quality and customer satisfaction.FindingsAll SQAS dimensions positively affected the quality of fitness centers. Furthermore, the service quality of fitness centers increased women's satisfaction, and age and income moderated the relationship between service quality and customer satisfaction.Originality/valueFitness centers are highly competitive, and this study offers insights for managers of such facilities to improve customer satisfaction.		[AbouRokbah, Safinaz; Salam, Mohammad Asif] King Abdulaziz Univ, Dept Business Adm, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; [AbouRokbah, Safinaz] King Abdulaziz Univ, Dept Business Adm, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001007210800001	74	Article; Article		
J	Kasahara, Kazuki; Konrad, Andreas; Yoshida, Riku; Murakami, Yuta; Sato, Shigeru; Koizumi, Ryoma; Behm, David G.; Nakamura, Masatoshi								Comparison of Isolated or Combined Static Stretching and Foam Rolling on Knee Extensors' Function								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			389	396		10.52082/jssm.2023.389			SEP 2023	2023	Static stretching (SS), foam rolling (FR), and a combination of both are used as warm-ups for sports and training. However, no reports have compared or examined the warm-up effects of short-term interventions (i.e., 30-s). Therefore, this study was designed to compare and examine the effects of short-term SS, FR, and SS+FR on knee extensors. The dominant knee extensors of 14 male university students (22.0 +/- 1.3 years old) were tested. Five conditions were randomized: 60-s SS, 60-s FR, 30-s SS+ 30-s FR, 30-s SS, and 30-s FR to examine differences in intervention method, duration, and combined. The measures were knee flexion range of motion (ROM), pain pressure threshold (PPT), tissue hardness, maximum voluntary contraction-isometric (MVC-ISO), and MVC-concentric (MVC-CON) torques, measured before and after the intervention. Knee flexion ROM (d = 0.40, d = 0.59, d = 0.54, d = 0.59, d = 0.52 respectively) and PPT (d = 0.77, d = 0.60, d = 0.90, d = 0.74, d = 0.52, respectively) were significantly increased (p < 0.01), and tissue hardness (d = -0.79, d = -0.63, d = -0.53, d = -0.59, d = -0.72, respectively) was significantly decreased (p < 0.01) in all conditions. However, MVC-ISO decreased significantly (p < 0.01) in the 60-s SS and 30-s SS conditions but did not affect MVC-CON in all conditions. The results of this study revealed that SS, FR, and SS+FR interventions for a short-term as a warm-up before exercise were effective in increasing ROM, PPT, and decreasing tissue hardness. However, SS intervention with more than 30-s on the knee extensors decreased muscle strength, so short-term FR intervention is recommended when the goal is to increase ROM while maintaining both MVC-ISO and MVC-CON torques. Similarly, a short-term FR intervention after a short-term SS can eliminate the effect of strength impairments.		[Kasahara, Kazuki; Yoshida, Riku; Murakami, Yuta; Sato, Shigeru] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Koizumi, Ryoma] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, Niigata, Japan; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Saga 8428585, Japan								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001013385700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Laurin, Raphael; Pellet, Julien								Affective Responses Mediate the Body Language of Penalty Taker - Decision-Making Relationship from Soccer Goalkeepers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			227	234		10.1080/02701367.2023.2189466			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Previous studies have shown that penalty-takers' body language affects the impressions that goalkeepers form about them and their anticipation performance. This research aimed to replicate these results and test the mediating effect of threat/challenge responses on the relationship between impression formation and the quality of goalkeeper decision-making. Methods and Results: We report 2 experiments. The first showed that participants (goalkeepers) form more positive impressions and have a lower expectation of success from dominant penalty-takers than submissive penalty-takers, and the second showed under pressure conditions that goalkeepers' decision-making was significantly less accurate against dominant players than against submissive players. In addition, we found that the more goalkeepers perceived the penalty-taker as competent, the more threatened they felt; conversely, the less they perceived the penalty-taker as competent, the more challenged they felt. Conclusion: Finally, our analysis showed that participants' cognitive appraisal (challenge vs. threat) influenced the quality of their decision-making and played a partial mediating role in the relationship between impression formation and decision-making.		[Laurin, Raphael; Pellet, Julien] Univ Burgundy, Dijon, France; [Laurin, Raphael; Pellet, Julien] Univ Burgundy, UFR STAPS, Dijon, France; [Laurin, Raphael; Pellet, Julien] Univ Burgundy, UFR STAPS, Dijon, France								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:001007054700001	32	Article; Article		
J	Yan, Changliang; Jang, Dojin; Kwon, Sungho; Jin, Qingyun								An integrated perspective of the demand-control and effort-reward imbalance models on burnout among sport coaches: The moderating role of over-commitment and coaching efficacy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			1929	1941		10.1177/17479541231181971			DEC 2023	2023	The present study aimed to explore the relationship between stress and burnout through an integration of the demand-control (DC) and effort-reward imbalance (ERI) model in the context of sport coaching. This is the first study to integrate these two models to explain burnout experienced by sport coaches, providing a theoretical basis for understanding the development of burnout in this population. A sample of 398 Chinese sport coaches working in the school system participated in the study. Moderated mediation analyses were conducted to test the research model, and results indicated that the data fit the model well and supported all hypotheses. Specifically, the study verified the hypotheses related to the importance of contextual conditions in burnout development (i.e. burnout caused by job stress consistent with ERI) and personal characteristics that regulate these conditions (i.e. over-commitment as the enhancing moderator and coaching efficacy as the buffering moderator consistent with DC). The findings suggest that addressing the social system (i.e. ERI) in which burnout develops and individual responses (i.e. DC) is crucial to prevent burnout among sport coaches.		[Yan, Changliang] Northeastern Univ, Phys Educ Dept, Shenyang, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Jang, Dojin; Kwon, Sungho] Seoul Natl Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Jin, Qingyun] Yanbian Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Yanji, Jilin, Peoples R China; [Jang, Dojin] Seoul Natl Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Rm 503,Bldg 71-1,1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul 08826, South Korea; [Jang, Dojin] Seoul Natl Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Rm 503,Bldg 71-1,1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul 08826, South Korea								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001009169500001	96	Article; Article		
J	Boson, Karina Miranda; Couret, Ana Flavia; Bretas, Ana Clara; Bolling, Caroline; Andrade, Carolina Marques								Don't stop me now: A qualitative study of how Brazilian dancers and staff perceive injury and its prevention								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				62				46	57		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.05.007			JUL 2023	2023	Objective: To investigate how Brazilian dancers and dance staff perceive and deal with injury and its prevention in professional and non-professional contexts.Design: Qualitative study.Setting: Semi-structured interviews conducted using an online platform.Participants: Thirteen participants (8 women, 5 men) from four different dance styles (classical ballet, jazz, contemporary and urban): 6 dancers, 6 staff and 1 classified as both.Main outcome measures: Interviews were recorded, transcribed and analyzed based on Grounded Theory principles using comparative data analysis.Results: The main themes and findings were: 1) Injury definition: Injury was defined and classified based on pain, structural damage and consequent limitations and restrictions. 2) Dealing with injury: Dancers' fear of having to stop dancing justifies different behaviours facing injury. 3) Injury factors: Overload and many personal and environmental factors were perceived as related to injury. 4) Injury prevention: it is linked with physical preparation and additional measures and influenced by communication, trust, experience, time, access to preventive programs, dancers' personalities and environmental factors. Re-sponsibility for injury prevention should be shared by all stakeholders.Conclusions: To improve injury prevention, we need to acknowledge the dancers' drive to keep dancing, consider the multiple factors that influence their behaviours, and develop education and self-efficacy to help them make better decisions to reduce the risk of injury.& COPY; 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Boson, Karina Miranda; Couret, Ana Flavia; Bretas, Ana Clara; Andrade, Carolina Marques] Fac Ciencias Med Minas Gerais, Alameda Ezequiel Dias 275, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Bolling, Caroline] Amsterdam UMC, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Boechorststr 7, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Andrade, Carolina Marques] Fac Ciencias Med Minas Gerais, Alameda Ezequiel Dias 275, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001027542200001	37	Article; Article		
J	Fox, Aaron S.; Bruce, Lyndell								Simulating shot selection strategies and scoring outcomes in Super Netball's 'Power 5' period								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1123	1129		10.1177/17479541231181975			JUN 2024	2024	In 2020, Australia's elite-level netball league introduced the 'Super Shot' - an opportunity for teams to gain two versus one goal per shot during the final 5 minutes of each quarter (i.e. Power 5 period). In this study, we ran simulations of Power 5 periods to: (i) identify expected scoring outcomes from Super Shot selection strategies and (ii) examine how Super Shot selection strategies could impact the scoring margin between teams. We ran simulations emulating Power 5 periods with different Super Shot selection strategies for teams individually and when competing against one another, and examined the scoring outputs and margins. A greater tendency for attempting Super Shots was a high-risk: high-reward strategy, where this strategy could result in both high- and low-scoring outcomes (i.e. increased scoring volatility). Average margins were not largely affected by Super Shot selection strategy in simulations between teams, yet the more volatile scoring with a higher tendency for Super Shot attempts led to wider margin ranges. We propose that a singular 'optimal' Super Shot selection strategy does not exist and that the match scenario should be a key driver in determining a team's strategy.		[Fox, Aaron S.; Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Vic 3216, Australia; [Fox, Aaron S.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, 75 Pigdons Rd, Geelong, Australia; [Fox, Aaron S.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, 75 Pigdons Rd, Geelong, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001005333300001	9	Article; Article		
J	Frederico, Renata Alves; Santos, Thiago Ribeiro Teles; Okai-Noberga, Liria Akie; Ocarino, Juliana Melo; Souza, Thales Rezende; Fonseca, Sergio Teixeira								Runners with a history of shank and foot injury: Interactions among local musculoskeletal factors, age, and running experience								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				62				1	9		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.05.001			JUL 2023	2023	Objective: To identify subgroups of runners' profiles who had or did not have a History of Running -Related Injury in the Shank and Foot (HRRI-SF). Design: Cross-sectional.Methods: Clinical measures of passive ankle stiffness (measured as ankle position (compliance) to index passive joint stiffness), forefoot-shank alignment, peak torque of ankle plantar flexors, years of running experience, and age were analyzed through Classification and Regression Tree (CART).Results: The CART identified four subgroups of runners with a greater prevalence of HRRI-SF: (1) ankle stiffness & LE;0.42 & DEG;; (2) ankle stiffness >0.42 & DEG;, age & LE;23.5 years, and forefoot varus >19,64 & DEG;; (3) ankle stiff-ness >0.42 & DEG;, age >62.5 years, and forefoot varus & LE;19.70 & DEG;; (4) ankle stiffness >42 & DEG;, age >62.5 years, forefoot varus >19.70 & DEG;, and running experience & LE;7 years. Three subgroups had a lower prevalence of HRRI-SF: (1) ankle stiffness >0.42 & DEG; and age between 23.5 and 62.5 years; (2) ankle stiffness >0.42 & DEG;, age & LE;23.5 years, and forefoot varus & LE;14.64 & DEG;; (3) ankle stiffness >0.42 & DEG;, age >62.5 years, forefoot varus >19.7 & DEG;, and running experience >7 years.Conclusion: One runner profile subgroup showed that higher ankle stiffness could predict HRRI-SF without association with other variables. Distinct interactions among variables characterized the other subgroups' profiles. The identified interactions among the predictors used to characterize the runners' profiles could be used in clinical decision-making. & COPY; 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Frederico, Renata Alves; Okai-Noberga, Liria Akie; Ocarino, Juliana Melo; Souza, Thales Rezende; Fonseca, Sergio Teixeira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Santos, Thiago Ribeiro Teles] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Fac Phys Educ & Phys Therapy, Uberlandia, MG, Brazil; [Fonseca, Sergio Teixeira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Dept Therapy, Ave Presidente Antonio Carlos,6627 Campus Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Fonseca, Sergio Teixeira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Dept Therapy, Ave Presidente Antonio Carlos,6627 Campus Pampulha, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001035870300001	57	Article; Article		
J	Dao, Megan; Mosby, Hadley; Westphalen, Emma; Post, Andrew A.; Wilken, Jason M.; Netto, Cesar de Cesar; Hall, Mederic M.; Danielson, Jessica; Sluka, Kathleen A.; Chimenti, Ruth L.								Reliability and validity of two-dimensional motion capture to assess ankle dorsiflexion motion and heel raise work								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				62				10	16		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.05.006			JUL 2023	2023	Objectives: To determine the inter-rater reliability and criterion validity of two-dimensional (2D) mea-sures of ankle function in the sagittal plane for participants with Achilles tendinopathy (AT).Design: Cohort study.Setting: University Laboratory, Participants, Adults with AT (N = 18, Women: 72.2%, Age = 43.4 & PLUSMN; 15.8 years, BMI = 28.7 & PLUSMN; 8.9 kg/m2)Main outcome measures: Reliability and validity were determined with intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC), standard error of the measurement (SEM), minimal detectable change (MDC), and Bland-Altman plots for ankle dorsiflexion and positive work during heel raises.Results: Inter-rater reliability between three raters for all 2D motion analysis tasks was good to excellent (ICC = 0.88 to 0.99). Criterion validity between 2D and 3D motion analyses for all tasks was good to excellent (ICC = 0.76 to 0.98). 2D motion analysis overestimated ankle dorsiflexion motion by 1.0-1.7 & DEG; (3% of mean sample value) and positive ankle joint work by 76.8 J (9% of mean) compared to 3D motion analysis.Conclusion: Although 2D and 3D measures are not interchangeable, the good to excellent reliability and validity of 2D measures in the sagittal plane support the use of video analysis to quantify ankle function for individuals with foot and ankle pain.& COPY; 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dao, Megan; Mosby, Hadley; Westphalen, Emma; Post, Andrew A.; Wilken, Jason M.; Sluka, Kathleen A.; Chimenti, Ruth L.] Univ Iowa, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Iowa City, IA USA; [Netto, Cesar de Cesar; Hall, Mederic M.] Univ Iowa, Dept Orthopaed & Rehabil, Iowa City, IA USA; [Hall, Mederic M.] Univ Iowa, Univ Iowa Sports Med, Iowa City, IA USA; [Danielson, Jessica] Univ Iowa Hosp & Clin, Inst Clin & Translat Sci, Iowa City, IA USA; [Chimenti, Ruth L.] Univ Iowa, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, 1-252 Med Educ Bldg, Iowa City, IA 52242 USA; [Chimenti, Ruth L.] Univ Iowa, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Iowa City, IA USA; [Chimenti, Ruth L.] Univ Iowa, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, 1-252 Med Educ Bldg, Iowa City, IA 52242 USA								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001021237400001	27	Article; Article		
J	Chiu, Weisheng; Cho, Heetae; Won, Doyeon								The knowledge structure of corporate social responsibility in sport management: a retrospective bibliometric analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			771	792		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2022-0178			OCT 11 2023	2023	PurposeCorporate social responsibility (CSR) has become increasingly significant in the sport industry, and athletes, leagues, teams and sport organizations are actively engaging in socially responsible activities. The popularity of CSR has attracted the attention of scholars in the field of sport management. However, little research has investigated the overview and evolution of the extant literature on CSR research in sport management. Therefore, this study aims to explore the knowledge structure of CSR in sport management and provide implications for future research.Design/methodology/approachThis work investigated and examined bibliographic data of scientific documents (N = 234) indexed in the Web of Science (WoS) database from 2008 to 2021. The Bibliometrix R package and VOSviewer software were used to analyze and visualize the knowledge map of CSR research in sport management.FindingsThe bibliometric analysis found that CSR has become a critical topic in the field of sport management. Most studies focus on the implementation of CSR activities by sport organizations and their impact on consumers' reactions and behaviors.Originality/valueThe findings of the current paper provide an efficient overview of the evolution of CSR in sport management and offer avenues for future scientific endeavors.		[Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Won, Doyeon] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Corpus Christi, TX USA; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001000771400001	102	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Fong-Jia; Chiu, Weisheng; Tseng, Kuo-Feng; Cho, Heetae								The roles of employee-employee collaboration and employee-customer collaboration in fitness service innovation: a comparison of frontline and non-frontline employees								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			793	813		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2022-0206			OCT 11 2023	2023	PurposeIn this study the authors examined the impact of employees' collaborative behaviours with colleagues and customers (i.e. employee-employee collaboration and employee-customer collaboration) on their creative self-efficacy and service innovation from the perspective of service-dominant logic. The authors also examined the differences between frontline and non-frontline fitness service employees in our research model. This study aims to discuss the aforementioned objectives.Design/methodology/approachParticipants were fitness-centre employees in Taiwan recruited via convenience sampling. A total of 410 participants completed our online survey, and the authors analysed the data using partial least squares structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM).FindingsThe authors found that collaboration with both colleagues and customers had a positive impact on employees' creative self-efficacy. Collaboration with colleagues directly affected service innovation, while collaboration with customers indirectly affected service innovation via creative self-efficacy. In addition, there was a significant difference between frontline and non-frontline employees in our research model. Specifically, the path from collaboration with customers to creative self-efficacy was stronger for frontline employees, and the path from creative self-efficacy to service innovation was stronger for non-frontline employees.Originality/valueThis study improves the understanding of the way in which different collaborative behaviours promote employees' creative self-efficacy and service innovation. Further, it is the first to identify the difference between frontline and non-frontline employees and it shows how the effects of collaborative behaviours differ between them in the context of fitness services.		[Wang, Fong-Jia] Tamkang Univ, Off Phys Educ, New Taipei City, Taiwan; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Tseng, Kuo-Feng] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Taipei City, Taiwan; [Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000999651700001	57	Article; Article		
J	Jankaew, Amornthep; Jan, Yih-Kuen; Hwang, Ing-Shiou; Kuo, Li-Chieh; Lin, Cheng-Feng								Hamstring Muscle Stiffness Affects Lower Extremity Muscle Recruitment and Landing Forces during Double-Legs Vertical Jump								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			1096	1114		10.1080/14763141.2023.2219670			APR 3 2025	2025	It is unclear how hamstring stiffness influences lower limb muscle activation during jump-landing mechanics. The study aimed to investigate the role of the hamstring stiffness on lower limb muscle recruitment during jumping manoeuvres. Thirty male athletes were recruited and allocated into high- and low-stiffness groups. Hamstring stiffness was determined as the average stiffness of bilateral hamstrings using a MyotonPRO. Surface electromyography of the bilateral gluteus maximus, quadriceps, and hamstring muscles was assessed during the takeoff, at ground contact, and at landing, while ground reaction force (GRF) was measured during the squat jump, countermovement jump, and drop vertical jump. The results showed that athletes with greater hamstring stiffness exhibited a higher median frequency of the lateral hamstrings in both limbs and the vastus medialis in the dominant limb than the low-stiffness group during takeoff, adjustment, and landing phases for all vertical jumps. The high stiffness group landed with lower vertical GRF in the drop vertical jump. In conclusion, athletes with high hamstring stiffness showed greater motor unit recruitment during takeoff and landing phases. This recruitment did not influence takeoff performance but aid with absorbing landing force. Therefore, the contribution of the lower limb muscle stiffness should be considered in sports activities.		[Jankaew, Amornthep; Hwang, Ing-Shiou; Kuo, Li-Chieh; Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Allied Hlth Sci, Coll Med, Tainan, Taiwan; [Jan, Yih-Kuen] Univ Illinois, Coll Appl Hlth Sci, Dept Kinesiol & Community Hlth, Champaign, IL USA; [Hwang, Ing-Shiou; Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Coll Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Tainan, Taiwan; [Kuo, Li-Chieh] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Coll Med, Dept Occupat Therapy, Tainan, Taiwan; [Kuo, Li-Chieh] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Med Device Innovat Ctr, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ Hosp, Phys Therapy Ctr, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Allied Hlth Sci, Coll Med, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Coll Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lin, Cheng-Feng] Natl Cheng Kung Univ Hosp, Phys Therapy Ctr, Tainan, Taiwan								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:001000841500001	52	Article; Article		
J	Stewart, Douglas G.; Allen, Justine B.; Kirkland, Andrew								Relative energy deficiency in sport and the role of ultrarunning coaches according to two female ultrarunners								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			1978	1991		10.1177/17479541231179301			DEC 2023	2023	Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) is a complex syndrome that occurs as a result of prolonged Low Energy Availability (LEA) leading to health and performance impairments. However, whilst the coach plays an important role when working with athletes with RED-S, no research exists specifically exploring their role. Therefore, this study investigates the role of the coach from the athletes' perspective within an ultrarunning context. Ultrarunners are at risk of LEA due to large training volumes and record high incidences of psychological and physiological conditions linked to RED-S, such as disordered eating and bone stress injuries. Two female ultrarunners who had experience with RED-S each participated in three semi-structured interviews. The findings highlight the multifaceted role of the coach which changes depending on the stage of the athletes' RED-S Journey. Of primary importance was that the coach should be educated on RED-S in order to provide value throughout. Secondly, for effective recovery, the coach should embrace working with a multidisciplinary support team of experts. Thirdly, the coach should actively work on establishing strong relationships with the athlete and their support network. This will propagate trust and honest conversations, a key requirement for recovery from, and ongoing training post, RED-S.		[Stewart, Douglas G.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England; [Allen, Justine B.; Kirkland, Andrew] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling, Scotland; [Stewart, Douglas G.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001008358000001	80	Article; Article		
J	James, Lachlan P.; Talpey, Scott W.; Young, Warren B.; Geneau, Mary C.; Newton, Robert U.; Gastin, Paul B.								Strength Classification and Diagnosis: Not All Strength Is Created Equal								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	3			333	341		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000744			JUN 2023	2023	Maximal force can be expressed across a range of conditions influenced by the external load and the time available to express force. As a result, several distinct and specific strength qualities exist. Conversely, some expressions of maximal force are similar and can be categorized as a single quality. Therefore, strength assessment systems must be sophisticated enough to isolate and measure each quality while minimizing redundant information. This article presents a contemporary, evidence-based and practical framework that reduces the many strength and speed-strength metrics into 5 distinct qualities. Alongside this, we present case examples of the application of strength diagnosis.		[James, Lachlan P.; Geneau, Mary C.; Gastin, Paul B.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Talpey, Scott W.; Young, Warren B.] Federat Univ Australia, Sch Sci Psychol & Sport, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Newton, Robert U.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [James, Lachlan P.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								50							Sport Sciences	WOS:001000281900007	70	Article; Article		
J	Lincoln, Merrick A.; Sapstead, Gareth W.; Moore, Kayla N.; Weldon, Anthony								Exercise Technique: The Landmine Row								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	3			371	378		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000751			JUN 2023	2023	The landmine row is an upper-body pulling exercise using a barbell as a lever. This column provides the strength and conditioning coach with a summary of trained musculature, technique descriptions for common landmine row variations, suggested instructional cues for improving technique and performance, an overview of unique exercise biomechanics, and programming recommendations.		[Lincoln, Merrick A.; Moore, Kayla N.] Saginaw Valley State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, University Ctr, MI 48710 USA; [Sapstead, Gareth W.] Fitness Maverick Training Ltd, Leicester, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci, Birmingham, England; [Lincoln, Merrick A.] Saginaw Valley State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, University Ctr, MI 48710 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001000281900012	83	Article; Article		
J	Paschall, Jeffrey; Dawes, Jay								Physical Demands of Air Force Special Operations Command Flight Crews: A Needs Analysis and Proposed Testing Protocol								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	3			354	363		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000746			JUN 2023	2023	Aircrews within the US Air Force Special Operations Command play a unique role on the battlefield. The physical demands of different aircrew positions can be static and dynamic and require sufficient levels of physical fitness for optimal physical and cognitive performance. This article presents a needs analysis highlighting the occupational demands of the aircrews to fully inform strength and conditioning program designs. In addition, a proposed testing protocol is provided to obtain objective measures required for the appropriate design and progression of training programs.		[Paschall, Jeffrey] Rocky Mt Univ Hlth Profess, Provo, UT USA; [Dawes, Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, OSU Tact Fitness & Nutr Lab, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Dawes, Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, OSU Tact Fitness & Nutr Lab, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001000281900009	75	Article; Article		
J	Ehiogu, Uzo Dimma; Krawczyk, Marcin; Tallent, Jamie								Strength and Conditioning Considerations for Speed Climbing								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	3			259	271		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000745			JUN 2023	2023	Climbing has developed into a professional sport with worldwide participation. Olympic climbing consists of lead climbing, speed climbing, and bouldering. The objective of speed climbing is to reach the top of the route in the fastest time. Speed climbing has not been subjected to the same level of investigation as other types of climbing. A strength and power base underpins performance in speed climbing. This physiological and mechanical basis provides the foundations for effective program design for the speed climber. Effective programming should incorporate a long-term planning approach that is based on a needs analysis of the sport and the climber's physical qualities. The development of high performance will involve the sequential application of regional hypertrophy, maximal strength, explosive strength training, plyometrics, and climbing-specific training to a varying degree.		[Ehiogu, Uzo Dimma] Birmingham Royal Orthopaed Hosp, Educ & Training Dept, Birmingham, England; [Ehiogu, Uzo Dimma] Inside Edge Physiotherapy, Birmingham, England; [Ehiogu, Uzo Dimma] Univ Birmingham, Coll Med & Dent Sci, Birmingham Med Sch, Birmingham, England; [Ehiogu, Uzo Dimma] Leeds Becket Univ, Sch Clin & Appl Sci, Leeds, England; [Ehiogu, Uzo Dimma] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Appl Hlth & Performance Sci, Twickenham, England; [Krawczyk, Marcin] Univ Appl Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Tarnow, Poland; [Tallent, Jamie] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Colchester, England; [Tallent, Jamie] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Australia; [Ehiogu, Uzo Dimma] Birmingham Royal Orthopaed Hosp, Educ & Training Dept, Birmingham, England; [Ehiogu, Uzo Dimma] Inside Edge Physiotherapy, Birmingham, England; [Ehiogu, Uzo Dimma] Univ Birmingham, Coll Med & Dent Sci, Birmingham Med Sch, Birmingham, England; [Ehiogu, Uzo Dimma] Leeds Becket Univ, Sch Clin & Appl Sci, Leeds, England; [Ehiogu, Uzo Dimma] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Appl Hlth & Performance Sci, Twickenham, England								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001000281900001	94	Article; Article		
J	Poffe, Chiel; Koppo, Katrien; Jaspers, Arne; Boen, Filip; Helsen, Werner F.; Van Roie, Evelien								Recreational Football Training Increases Leg-Extensor Velocity Production in 55-To 70-Year Old Adults: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			345	357		10.52082/jssm.2023.345			JUN 2023	2023	This study investigated the effects of 10 weeks of recreational football training on the leg-extensor force-velocity (F-V) profile in 55- to 70-year-old adults. Simultaneous effects on functional capacity, body composition and endurance exercise capacity were examined. Forty participants (age 63.5 +/- 3.9 years; 36 male 4 female) were randomized in a football training (FOOT, n = 20) and a control (CON, n = 20) group. FOOT performed 45-min to 1-h of football training sessions with small-sided games twice a week. Pre- and post-intervention assessments were performed. The results revealed a greater increase in maximal velocity (d = 0.62, p(int) = 0.043) in FOOT compared to CON. No interaction effects were found for maximal power and force (p(int) > 0.05). 10-m fast walk improved more (d = 1.39, p(int) < 0.001), 3-step stair ascent power (d = 0.73, p(int) = 0.053) and body fat percentage (d = 0.61, p(int) = 0.083) tended to improve more in FOOT than in CON. RPE and HR values at the highest speed level during a submaximal graded treadmill test decreased more in FOOT compared to CON (RPE: d = 0.96, p(int) = 0.005; HR: d = 1.07, p(int) = 0.004). Both the number of accelerations and decelerations as well as the distance spent in moderate- and high-speed zones increased markedly throughout the 10-week period (p < 0.05). Participants perceived the sessions as very enjoyable and feasible. In conclusion, recreational football training resulted in improved leg-extensor velocity production, which translated to a better performance on functional capacity tests that rely on a high execution velocity. Simultaneously, exercise tolerance was improved and body fat percentage tended to reduce. It appears that short-term recreational football training can induce broad-spectrum health benefits in 55- to 70-year-old adults with only 2 hours of training per week.		[Poffe, Chiel; Koppo, Katrien] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Exercise Physiol Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [Jaspers, Arne] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Res Grp Musculoskeletal Rehabil, Dept Rehabil Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Boen, Filip; Van Roie, Evelien] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Phys Act Sports & Hlth Res Grp, Tervuursevest 101, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium; [Helsen, Werner F.] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Movement Control & Neuroplast Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [Van Roie, Evelien] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Phys Act Sports & Hlth Res Grp, Tervuursevest 101, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001008735500001	41	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Huan; Wang, Jue								The Effects of Incorporating Dry-land Short Intervals to Long Aerobic-dominant In-Water Swimming Training on Physiological Parameters, Hormonal Factors, and Performance: A Randomized-Controlled Intervention Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			329	337		10.52082/jssm.2023.329			JUN 2023	2023	This study investigated the impact of a 4-week dry-land short sprint interval program (sSIT) on a swim ergometer, when incorporated into long aerobic-dominant in-water swimming training, on the physiological parameters, hormonal factors, and swimming performance of well-trained swimmers. Sixteen participants (age = 25 +/- 6 years, height = 183 +/- 6 cm, weight 78 +/- 6 kg, body fat = 10.6 +/- 3.1%) were randomized to either a long aerobic-dominant in-pool training plus three sessions/week of sSIT or a control group (CON) who didn't engage in SIT. sSIT consisted of 3 sets of 10 x 4 s, 10 x 6 s, and 10 x 8 s all-out sprints interspersed by 15, 60, and 40 s recovery between each sprint, respectively. Pre- and post-training assessments included peak oxygen uptake ((V)over dotO(2)peak), O(2)pulse ((V)over dot O-2/HR), ventilation at (V)over dotO(2)peak ((V)over dot(E)@(V)over dotO(2)peak), peak and average power output, and freestyle swim performance at 50, 100, and 200-m distances, stroke rate, as well as testosterone and cortisol. sSIT resulted in significant improvements in (V)over dotO(2)peak (5.8%), O(2)pulse (4.7%), (V)over dot(E)@(V)over dotO(2)peak (7.1%), peak and average power output (6.7% and 13.8%, respectively), total testosterone (20%), testosterone to cortisol ratio (16.1%), and 50, 100, and 200-m freestyle swimming performance (-2.2%, -1.2%, and -1.1%, respectively). Furthermore, the observed alterations in the physiological, biochemical, and performance adaptations were significantly more substantial in the sSIT group than the CON group (p <= 0.05), demonstrating no modifications during the 4-week long aerobic-dominant in-water swimming without sSIT. The current research effectively established that supplementing standard long aerobic-dominant in-water swim training with three weekly dry-land sSIT sessions triggers adaptive mechanisms that foster enhancements in the aerobic and anaerobic capacity and swimming performance in well-trained swimmers.		[Liu, Huan] Woosuk Univ, 443 Samnye Ro, Wanju Gun 55338, Jeollabuk Do, South Korea; [Wang, Jue] Kookmin Univ, 77 Jeongeung Ro, Seoul 02707, South Korea; [Wang, Jue] Kookmin Univ, 77 Jeongeung Ro, Seoul 02707, South Korea								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001008729400001	50	Article; Article		
J	Yamashita, Momoko; Ishida, Tomoya; Osuka, Satoshi; Watanabe, Kentaro; Samukawa, Mina; Kasahara, Satoshi; Kondo, Eiji; Tohyama, Harukazu								Trunk Muscle Activities during Ergometer Rowing in Rowers with and without Low Back Pain								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			338	344		10.52082/jssm.2023.338			JUN 2023	2023	This study aimed to determine the differences in trunk muscle activity during rowing at maximal effort between rowers with and without low back pain (LBP). Ten rowers with LBP and 12 rowers without LBP were enrolled in this study. All rowers performed a 500-m trial using a rowing ergometer at maximal effort. The amplitudes of the activities of the thoracic erector spinae (TES), lumbar erector spinae (LES), latissimus dorsi (LD), rectus abdominis (RA), and external oblique (EO) muscles were analyzed using a wireless surface electromyography (EMG) system. EMG data at each stroke were converted into 10-time series data by recording averages at every 10% in the 100% stroke cycle and normalized by maximum voluntary isometric contraction in each muscle. Two-way repeated measures analysis of variance was performed. Significant interactions were found in the activities of the TES and LES (P < 0.001 and P = 0.047, respectively). In the post hoc test, the TES activity in the LBP group was significantly higher than that in the control group at the 10% to 20% and 20% to 30% stroke cycles (P = 0.013 and P = 0.007, respectively). The LES activity in the LBP group was significantly higher than that in the control group at the 0% to 10% stroke cycle (P < 0.001). There was a main group effect on the LD activity, with significantly higher activity in the LBP group than in the control group (P = 0.023). There were no significant interactions or main effects in the EO and RA activities between the groups. The present study showed that rowers with LBP compared with those without LBP exhibited significantly higher TES, LES, and LD muscle activities. This indicates that rowers with LBP exhibit excessive back muscle activity during rowing under maximal effort.		[Yamashita, Momoko; Kondo, Eiji] Hokkaido Univ, Grad Sch Med, Dept Sports Med, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Ishida, Tomoya; Osuka, Satoshi; Watanabe, Kentaro; Samukawa, Mina; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Osuka, Satoshi] Hokkaido Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil, West 5,North 12,Kita Ku, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0608648, Japan; [Osuka, Satoshi] Hokkaido Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil, West 5,North 12,Kita Ku, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0608648, Japan								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001006715200001	32	Article; Article		
J	Bassek, Manuel; Raabe, Dominik; Memmert, Daniel; Rein, Robert								Analysis of Motion Characteristics and Metabolic Power in Elite Male Handball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			310	316		10.52082/jssm.2023.310			JUN 2023	2023	While handball is characterized by repeated sprints and changes of direction, traditional player load models do not consider accelerations and decelerations. The aim of this study was to analyze the differences between metabolic power and speed zones for player load assessment with regard to the player role. Position data from 330 male individuals during 77 games from the 2019/20 German Men's Handball-Bundesliga (HBL) were analyzed, resulting in 2233 individual observations. Players were categorized into wings, backs and pivots. Distance covered in different speed (metabolic work divided by energy cost of running), time spend running, energy spend running, and time over 10 and 20 W were calculated. A 2-by-3 mixed ANOVA was calculated to investigate differences and interactions between groups and player load models. Results showed that total distance was longest in wings (3568 +/- 1459 m in 42 +/- 17 min), followed by backs (2462 +/- 1145 m in 29 +/- 14 min), and pivots (2445 +/- 1052 m in 30 +/- 13 min). Equivalent distance was greatest in wings (4072.50 +/- 1644.83 m), followed by backs (2765.23 +/- 1252.44 m), and pivots (2697.98 +/- moderate to large interaction effects between wings and backs (p < .01, ES = 0.73) and between wings and pivots (p < .01, ES = on smaller match sequences, like ball possession phases.		[Bassek, Manuel; Raabe, Dominik; Memmert, Daniel; Rein, Robert] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Am Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Bassek, Manuel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Am Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000995447700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Noblett, Hayley; Hudson, Sean; Killey, Jenny; Fish, Michael								The Physical and Physiological Match-Play Locomotor Activity Profiles of Elite Domestic Male Field Hockey								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			273	280		10.52082/jssm.2023.273			JUN 2023	2023	A new four-quarter match format in field hockey has meant that the locomotor activity profiles of the sport are inconsistent with the literature. The aim of this investigation was to identify the physical and physiological demands of national-level male hockey players. Thirty-two male players participated in the study. Participants were monitored with GPS and heart rate monitors. Variables analysed were total time, total distance (m), relative total distance (m.min(-1)), total distance in velocity bands (m), and activity intensity (m.min(-1)). Mean and maximum heart rate were calculated as well as total time and percentage time spent in heart rate zones relative to HRmax. Players spent 52 +/- 11 min in play. The total distance covered was 5986 +/- 1105 m (116 +/- 12 m.min(-1)) with 21.4 +/- 6.8 m.min(-1) of high intensity activity. Defenders covered the lowest relative total distance (p < 0.001) and attackers the highest (p < 0.001). Relative total distance in Q4 was 5% lower than in Q1and Q2 (p < 0.05) with moderate intensity exercise (8.1 - 15.5 km.h(-1)) being 11% lower in Q4 compared to Q1 and Q2. The mean HR and HRmax of players were 167 +/- 10 and 194 +/- 11 bpm respectively. Players had a lower mean HR in Q3 (164bpm) and Q4 (164bpm) compared to Q1 (169bpm) and Q2 (168bpm; p < 0.001). The current study provides novel data outlining the physical and physiological activity profiles of national-level male field hockey players across playing positions as well as quarters of play. The results highlight a need to consider positional differences when implementing a training programme for players at national level.		[Noblett, Hayley; Hudson, Sean; Killey, Jenny; Fish, Michael] Univ Huddersfield, Sch Human & Hlth Sci, Huddersfield, W Yorkshire, England; [Noblett, Hayley] Univ Huddersfield, Sch Human & Hlth Sci, Huddersfield, W Yorkshire, England								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000994476900001	34	Article; Article		
J	Grgic, Jozo; Grgic, Ivana								Resistance Training-Induced Gains in Rate of Force Development Are Maintained During Training Cessation: A Meta-Analysis								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	3			325	332		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000740			JUN 2023	2023	The present meta-analysis examined the effects of resistance training on increasing the rate of force development (RFD), followed by exploring the changes in RFD occurring during training cessation. Five databases were searched to find eligible studies. Their methodological quality was evaluated using the Downs and Black checklist. The data were pooled in a random-effects meta-analysis. Seven studies with 11 training groups were included in the meta-analysis. All studies were classified as being of good or moderate quality. Resistance training increased RFD (d: 0.24; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.09-0.38). There was no significant difference in RFD between the postintervention and postdetraining periods (d: -0.02; 95% CI: -0.10-0.06). In subgroup meta-analyses, there was no significant difference (all p > 0.05) between the postintervention and postdetraining RFD when categorized according to detraining duration (up to 4 weeks versus 7-16 weeks) or participants' training status (untrained versus trained). This meta-analysis demonstrated that resistance training effectively increases RFD. More importantly, the results also indicated that gains in RFD are maintained after detraining. Thus, unlike a few other resistance training-induced adaptations (e.g., increases in muscular strength and muscular endurance), it seems that gains in RFD are preserved during a detraining phase.		[Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Australia; [Grgic, Ivana] Cty Hosp Schrobenhausen, Schrobenhausen, Germany; [Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Australia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001000281900006	37	Article; Article		
J	Garcia, Micah C.; Heiderscheit, Bryan C.; Kraus, Emily A.; Norte, Grant E.; Murray, Amanda M.; Bazett-Jones, David M.								Preferred temporal-spatial parameters, physical maturation, and sex are related to vertical and braking forces in adolescent long-distance runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3224	3234		10.1080/14763141.2023.2218325			DEC 1 2024	2024	For adults, increasing cadence reduces ground reaction forces, but a lower preferred cadence does not predispose adults to experience higher ground reaction forces. Pubertal growth and motor control changes influence running mechanics, but it is unknown if preferred cadence or step length are associated with ground reaction forces for pre-adolescent and adolescent runners. Pre-adolescent and adolescent runners underwent an overground running analysis at a self-selected speed. Mixed model multiple linear regressions investigated the associations of preferred cadence, step length, physical maturation, and sex on ground reaction forces, while accounting for running speed and leg length. Running with a lower preferred cadence or longer preferred step length was associated with larger peak braking and vertical forces (p <= .01), being less physically mature was associated with larger vertical impact peak force and vertical loading rate (p <= .01), and being a male was associated with larger loading rates (p <= .01). A lower preferred cadence or longer preferred step length were associated with higher braking and vertical forces and being less physically mature or a male were associated with higher loading rates. An intervention to increase cadence/decrease step length could be considered if ground reaction forces are a concern for an adolescent runner.		[Garcia, Micah C.; Norte, Grant E.; Murray, Amanda M.; Bazett-Jones, David M.] Univ Toledo, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Mot Anal & Integrat Neurophysiol Lab, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Heiderscheit, Bryan C.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, Madison, WI USA; [Kraus, Emily A.] Stanford Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, Redwood City, CA USA; [Garcia, Micah C.] Univ Toledo, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Mot Anal & Integrat Neurophysiol Lab, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000996145600001	41	Article; Article		
J	Guppy, Stuart N.; Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Poon, Wayne C. K.; Kendall, Kristina L.; Lake, Jason P.; Haff, G. Gregory								The stability of the deadlift three repetition maximum								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			812	821		10.1177/17479541231174316			APR 2024	2024	This study investigated the stability of three repetition maximum (3RM) strength during the deadlift. Eleven participants performed four testing sessions comprising a one repetition maximum test and 3RM tests separated by 48 h. Preparedness was assessed before each testing session using countermovement jumps and by measuring barbell velocity during each set of deadlifts. Trivial statistically significant differences were determined for the 3RM between T1 and both T2 (p = 0.012; ES [95% CI] = -0.1 [-0.58, 0.41]) and T3 (p = 0.027; ES [95% CI] = -0.09 [-0.57, -0.43]). No significant differences were noted between T2 and T3 (p = 0.595; ES [95% CI] = 0.01 [-0.49, 0.50]). No significant differences in jump height (p = 0.071), time-to-take-off (p = 0.862), eccentric displacement (p = 0.209), or mean force during any countermovement jump sub-phase were found between each session (p = 0.529-0.913). Small differences in barbell mean velocity were found between both T1-T2 (effect size statistics (ES) = -0.21-0.27) and T2-T3 (ES = 0.31-0.48), while trivial differences were found at others. Therefore, 3RM deadlift strength appears stable enough over a microcycle to continue using traditionally recommended heavy/light programming strategies.		[Guppy, Stuart N.; Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Poon, Wayne C. K.; Kendall, Kristina L.; Lake, Jason P.; Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Lake, Jason P.] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Chichester, West Sussex, England; [Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Manchester, England; [Guppy, Stuart N.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; [Guppy, Stuart N.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001001168300001	58	Article; Article		
J	Makronasios, Nikolaos S.; Amiridis, Ioannis G.; Evaggelos, Baggalas; Theodoros, Kannas M.; Plastraki, Aikaterini C.; Sahinis, Chrysostomos; Enoka, Roger M.								Neuromuscular electrical stimulation improves reaction time and execution time of roundhouse kick in highly skilled martial arts athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3370	3381		10.1080/14763141.2023.2216186			DEC 1 2024	2024	The purpose of the study was to evaluate the influence of neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) on a roundhouse kick (RHK) and the rate of force development (RFD) and peak force during maximal isometric contractions with the knee extensors. Sixteen martial arts athletes were randomly assigned to either a training group (NMES + martial arts) or a control group (martial arts). The RHK was performed to a fixed target located approximately 1.5 m away from the athlete. The reaction time and execution time were quantified with a light-sensor system. Participants were tested before and after completing 15 sessions of training (5 weeks, 3 sessions/week, 90 min/session). In addition, the training group performed another 15 sessions (3 sessions/week, 30 min/session) in which electrical stimulation was superimposed on maximal isometric contractions of the quadriceps (100 Hz, 450 mu s). There were no statistically significant changes in either RFD or maximal isometric force for either group (p > 0.05). However, the training group experienced significant reductions (p < 0.05) in both reaction time (-9.2%) and the execution time (-5.9%). The findings indicate that supplemental NMES training can improve sport-specific movements, such as the RHK, without any changes in maximal force capabilities in skilled martial arts athletes.		[Makronasios, Nikolaos S.; Amiridis, Ioannis G.; Evaggelos, Baggalas; Theodoros, Kannas M.; Plastraki, Aikaterini C.; Sahinis, Chrysostomos] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Enoka, Roger M.] Univ Colorado, Dept Integrat Physiol, Boulder, CO USA; [Amiridis, Ioannis G.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Thessaloniki, Greece								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000996093500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Adhitya, I. Putu Gde Surya; Wibawa, Ari; Aryana, I. Gusti Ngurah Wien; Suprawesta, Lalu; Kurniawati, Ida; Kamayoga, I. Dewa Gede Alit; Kinandana, Gede Parta								Predictors of lower knee function improvement two years after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	3			239	245		10.1080/00913847.2023.2217877			MAY 3 2024	2024	ObjectivesThe extent to which knee functions improve after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) varies. This study aimed to determine the factors that affect lower knee function improvement after two years of ACLR.MethodsThe study included 159 patients who underwent ACLR in the Indonesian ACL community between August 2018 and April 2020. The concomitant injury and graft types of ACLR were determined using patients' pre-surgical MRI and medical records. The five subscales of the knee injury and osteoarthritis outcome score (KOOS) were used to evaluate the patient at baseline, first year, and second year following ACLR. A linear mixed-effect model (LMEM) was used to predict the longitudinal improvement models for the five-subscales KOOS score after ACLR.ResultsThe LMEM predicted lower KOOS subscales scores improvements by 0.5 for QOL, 0.1 for symptom, ADL, and QOL, and 0.2 for sports/recreation, respectively, for a one score increase of age and time from injury to surgery. Male patients had higher KOOS subscale scores with the improvement of pain, symptom, and ADL by 5.7, 5.9, and 6.3 compared to female patients, respectively, while patients with patellar tendon grafts had lower improvement of KOOS score pain by 6.5 compared to hamstring tendon grafts.ConclusionAs the age and time from injury to surgery increased, the KOOS subscales scores of QOL and symptoms, ADL, sports/recreation, and QOL decreased. Male patients reported higher KOOS subscales scores for pain, symptoms, and ADL, while patients with patella tendon grafts had a lower improvement in pain score.		[Adhitya, I. Putu Gde Surya; Wibawa, Ari; Kamayoga, I. Dewa Gede Alit; Kinandana, Gede Parta] Univ Udayana, Coll Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Denpasar, Indonesia; [Aryana, I. Gusti Ngurah Wien] Univ Udayana, Coll Med, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, Denpasar, Indonesia; [Aryana, I. Gusti Ngurah Wien] Univ Udayana, Sanglah Gen Hosp, Denpasar, Indonesia; [Suprawesta, Lalu] Taipei Med Univ, Grad Inst Injury Prevent & Control, Coll Publ Hlth, Taipei, Taiwan; [Suprawesta, Lalu] Univ Pendidikan Mandalika, Fac Sport Sci & Publ Hlth, Dept Sport & Hlth Educ, Mataram, Indonesia; [Kurniawati, Ida] Univ Warmadewa, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Histol, Denpasar, Bali, Indonesia; [Adhitya, I. Putu Gde Surya] Univ Udayana, Coll Med, Dept Phys Therapy, PB Sudirman St, Denpasar 80232, Bali, Indonesia; [Adhitya, I. Putu Gde Surya] Univ Udayana, Coll Med, Dept Phys Therapy, PB Sudirman St, Denpasar 80232, Bali, Indonesia								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000995280500001	42	Article; Article		
J	Bates, Kaysha; Zeppieri, Giorgio; Young, Candace; Bruner, Michelle; Moser, Michael; Farmer, Kevin W.; Pozzi, Federico								Preseason lower extremity range of motion, flexibility, and strength in relation to in-season injuries in NCAA division I gymnasts								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	2			200	206		10.1080/00913847.2023.2215775			MAR 3 2024	2024	ObjectivesTo determine if preseason lower extremity ROM, flexibility, and strength differ in collegiate gymnasts (NCAA Division 1) who do or do not sustain an injury during the competitive season.MethodsOver four seasons, a total of 15 female gymnasts (age = 20.5 +/- 1.0 years) underwent preseason screening (30 gymnast-season). We tested joint ROM (hip: flexion, internal and external rotation; ankle: weightbearing dorsiflexion), muscle flexibility (passive straight leg raise, Thomas,' Ober's, Ely's tests) and strength (hip extensors, abductors, and flexors isometric strength via a handheld dynamometer; knee: quadriceps and hamstring isokinetic strength at 60 degrees/sec). The team athletic trainer tracked overuse lower extremity injuries (restricted gymnasts from full participation, occurred as from participation in organized practice or competition, and required medical attention) during each season. For athletes that tested multiple seasons, each encounter was considered independent, and each preseason assessment was linked to overuse injuries sustained during the same competitive season. Gymnasts were dichotomized into injured and non-injured groups. An independent t-test was used to measure differences in preseason outcomes between injured and non-injured groups.ResultsDuring four years, we recorded 23 overuse lower extremity injuries. Gymnasts that sustained an in-season overuse injury demonstrated significantly lower hip flexion ROM (mean difference: -10.6 degrees; 95% confidence interval: -16.5, -4.6; p < 0.01) and lower hip abduction strength (mean difference: -4.7% of body weight; 95% confidence interval: -9.2, -0.3; p = 0.04).ConclusionGymnasts who sustain an in-season overuse lower extremity injury have significant preseason deficit of hip flexion ROM and weakness in the hip abductors. These findings indicate potential impairments in the kinematic & kinetic chains responsible for skill performance and energy absorption during landing.		[Bates, Kaysha] Victory lab PT & performance, Jackson, WY USA; [Bates, Kaysha; Young, Candace] Univ Florida Hlth, Sport Phys Therapy Residency Program, Gainesville, FL USA; [Zeppieri, Giorgio] Univ Florida Hlth, Dept Rehabil, Gainesville, FL USA; [Young, Candace] Hosp Special Surg, Dept Rehabil, New York, NY USA; [Bruner, Michelle; Moser, Michael; Farmer, Kevin W.] Univ Florida, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Med, Gainesville, FL USA; [Pozzi, Federico] Univ Florida, Dept Phys Therapy, Gainesville, FL USA; [Bates, Kaysha] Victory Lab PT & Performance, Jackson, WY 83001 USA; [Bates, Kaysha] Victory Lab PT & Performance, Jackson, WY 83001 USA								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000995257300001	52	Article; Article		
J	Won, Doyeon; Chiu, Weisheng; Bravo, Gonzalo A.								Psychological contract on employee consequences among collegiate head coaches: The moderating role of procedural justice								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1405	1419		10.1177/17479541231177011			OCT 2023	2023	The current study investigated the relationship between the psychological contract (PC), trust, perceived organizational support (POS), organizational commitment, and turnover intention among collegiate head coaches. In addition, this study explored the moderating effect of procedural justice on the relationship between these variables. Data were collected from 283 full-time head coaches in the NCAA and were primarily analyzed using PLS-SEM. The results indicated that relational PC (R-PC), compared to transactional PC (T-PC), was more influential in affecting coaches' POS, trust, and commitment, while T-PC influenced POS only, but not trust and commitment. In addition, both trust and POS were positively associated with coaches' affective commitment, while affective commitment, POS, and trust, in this order, were negatively related to their turnover intentions. Coaches' perceived procedural justice moderated the relationship between T-PC and employee consequences, indicating that T-PC was more meaningful in high justice situations.		[Won, Doyeon] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Corpus Christi, TX USA; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Bravo, Gonzalo A.] West Virginia Univ, Morgantown, WV USA; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Sports & Recreat Management Programme, 30 Good Shepherd St, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Chiu, Weisheng] Hong Kong Metropolitan Univ, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Sports & Recreat Management Programme, 30 Good Shepherd St, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001001720900001	108	Article; Article		
J	Bam, Jenna; Watson, Neil; Parker, Naasier; Lambert, Mike; Jones, Ben; Weston, Matthew; Hendricks, Sharief								Coach and player rating of perceived challenge (RPC) as a skill monitoring tool in Rugby union								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1010	1017		10.1177/17479541231166287			AUG 2023	2023	Objective To determine the relationship between player and coach rating of perceived challenge (RPC) for different training sessions over a competitive rugby union season. A secondary aim was to explore the relationship between player RPC and player session rating of perceived exertion (RPE). Methods We used an observational longitudinal study design to monitor 51 male highly-trained under 21 rugby union players and four coaches over an 11-week competitive rugby season (a total of 1798 training session observations). Player RPC (0 to 10 arbitrary units (AU)) and RPE ratings (0 to 10 AU) were collected after team sessions (a technical and tactical field-based session with all players training together), split sessions (a technical and tactical field-based session where players trained separately according to their positional grouping (forward and backs)) and gym sessions (non-field-based session with all players training together). Coach RPC ratings were only collected after team sessions and split sessions. Results A weak positive relationship (rho = 0.26; 95% CI: 0.09-0.42; p < .001) was found for split sessions (player RPC: 4.40; 95% CI: 3.87-4.87 AU; coach RPC: 4.25; 95% CI: 3.92-4.60 AU), while a moderate positive relationship (rho = 0.37; 95% CI: 0.31-0.43; p < .001) was found between player RPC (4.29; 95% CI: 4.00-4.55) and coach RPC (4.96; 95% CI: 4.89-5.05) for team sessions. Forwards had a higher RPC (5.33; 95% CI: 4.50-5.65) compared to backs (3.45; 95% CI: 2.88-4.00) for split (p < .001) and team sessions (forward's RPC: 4.66; 95% CI: 4.37-4.94; back's RPC: 3.84; 95% CI: 3.38-4.26; p < .001). Conclusions In conclusion, using a rating to quantify the perceived challenge of training, we found coaches may be overestimating how challenging their training sessions are. Forwards-rated field sessions more challenging than backs, which likely represents their additional technical and tactical demands from training scrums, line-outs and mauls. While the RPC has strong theoretical justification as a rating tool to potentially fulfil the gap of quantifying the perceived challenge of training, thoughtful validity studies are yet to be conducted on the scale, which are the required next steps if the RPC is going form part of a coach's and practitioner's toolbox to optimise skill training.		[Bam, Jenna; Lambert, Mike; Jones, Ben; Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Lifestyle & Sport Res Ctr HPALS, Dept Human Biol,Div Physiol Sci & Hlth through Phy, Cape Town, South Africa; [Watson, Neil] Univ Cape Town, Dept Stat Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Parker, Naasier] South African Rugby Union, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben; Hendricks, Sharief] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, Australia; [Jones, Ben] England Performance Unit, Rugby Football League, Leeds, England; [Jones, Ben] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, England; [Weston, Matthew] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci ISPEHS, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Physiol Sci, POB 115, ZA-7725 Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Physiol Sci, POB 115, ZA-7725 Cape Town, South Africa								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001001625200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Scholten, Hendrik								You've Got Three Choices: Give in, Give up, or Give it All You've Got: Does Contest Heterogeneity Affect Effort in Individual Competitions?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	7			932	965		10.1177/15270025231174617			OCT 2023	2023	This study focuses on the effect of contest heterogeneity on individuals' effort provision in rank-order tournaments. We add to the literature by analyzing data from a well-suited setting (professional darts tournaments) that differs significantly from those previously examined (mental effort task without direct interaction between contestants), while applying two different temporal types of heterogeneity, pre-contest and within-contest heterogeneity. We do not find consistent evidence for heterogeneity to influence players' effort.		[Scholten, Hendrik] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Univ Str 25, D-33501 Bielefeld, Germany; [Scholten, Hendrik] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Univ Str 25, D-33501 Bielefeld, Germany								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:001001656900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Caetano, Fabio Giuliano; Santiago, Paulo Roberto Pereira; Torres, Ricardo da Silva; Cunha, Sergio Augusto; Moura, Felipe Arruda								Interpersonal coordination of opposing player dyads during attacks performed in official football matches								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			1048	1063		10.1080/14763141.2023.2212664			APR 3 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to characterise the interpersonal coordination between opponent players during offensive sequences in official matches and to verify if offensive sequences ended in shots to goal present different coordination patterns when compared than those that ended in defensive tackles. A total of 580 offensive sequences occurred during matches resulting in shots to goal (n = 172) or defensive tackles (n = 408) were analysed. The bidimensional coordinates and technical actions of male professional football players (n = 1160) were obtained using a video-based tracking system. Dyads were defined using a network analysis and composed of the nearest opponent. Interpersonal coordination of the dyads was analysed using the vector coding and the frequency for each coordination pattern was computed. In-phase was predominant for all displacement directions and offensive sequences outcomes, and antiphase was the least frequent. For lateral displacements, offensive sequences ending in shot to goal presented lower frequency for in-phase and higher frequency for offensive player phase than ended in defensive tackle. This information about the relationship of opponent players dyads during decisive moments of the matches provides fundamentals for future research and assists coaches to understand the different behaviours in successful and unsuccessful attacks.		[Caetano, Fabio Giuliano; Moura, Felipe Arruda] Univ Estadual Londrina, Dept Sport Sci, Londrina, Brazil; [Santiago, Paulo Roberto Pereira] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Ribeirao Preto, Brazil; [Torres, Ricardo da Silva] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol NTNU, Dept ICT & Nat Sci, Trondheim, Norway; [Cunha, Sergio Augusto] Univ Estadual Campinas, Dept Sport Sci, Campinas, Brazil; [Caetano, Fabio Giuliano] Univ Estadual Londrina, Dept Sport Sci, Londrina, Brazil								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000994681100001	35	Article; Article		
J	Catala-Vilaplana, Ignacio; Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto; Camacho-Garcia, Andres; Sanchis-Sanchis, Roberto; Perez-Soriano, Pedro								Influence of surface condition and prolonged running on impact accelerations								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			1064	1078		10.1080/14763141.2023.2214519			APR 3 2025	2025	Running can be performed on different types of surfaces with distinct characteristics. These differences between the running surfaces may affect impact accelerations during prolonged running. The aim of this study was to compare the effect of the type of running surface (motorised treadmill (MT), curved non-motorised treadmill (cNMT), and overground (OVG)) and prolonged running in impact accelerations, spatiotemporal parameters and perceptual variables. In the current study, twenty-one recreational runners completed three randomised crossover prolonged running test on these surfaces consisting of a 30-minute run at 80% of the individual maximal aerobic speed. A two-way repeated-measure analysis of variance, with the level of significance set at p < 0.05, showed a reduction in impact accelerations, such as tibia peak acceleration, when running on cNMT vs MT (p = 0.001, ES = 4.2) or OVG (p = 0.004, ES = 2.9). Running on cNMT produced an increase in stride frequency (p = 0.023, ES = 0.9) and higher rating of perceived effort (p < 0.001, ES = 8.9) and heart rate (p = 0.001, ES = 2.9) compared to OVG, with no differences between treadmills. These findings suggest that impact accelerations, spatiotemporal parameters, rating of perceived exertion and heart rate are different between the surfaces analysed, what should be taken into consideration when running on these surfaces.		[Catala-Vilaplana, Ignacio; Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto; Sanchis-Sanchis, Roberto; Perez-Soriano, Pedro] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sports Biomech GIBD, Valencia, Spain; [Camacho-Garcia, Andres] Univ Politecn Valencia, Dept Comunicac, Alcoy, Spain; [Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sports Biomech GIBD, Valencia, Spain								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000990893800001	61	Article; Article		
J	Morgan, Philip J.; Pollock, Emma R.; Kennedy, Stevie-Lee; Young, Myles D.; Eather, Narelle; Ashton, Lee M.								Feasibility of 'Daughters and Dads Cricket': A programme targeting fathers to improve daughters' engagement and skills in cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			653	667		10.1177/17479541231169096			APR 2024	2024	Background Utilising fathers to support their daughters and enhance their cricket skills may be an innovative approach to addressing traditional socio-cultural views of cricket relating to gender, by improving girls' enjoyment, participation and long-term retention in in the sport. Purpose To assess the feasibility of the 'Daughters and Dads Cricket' programme. Methods In a single-arm, pre-post study, fathers (n = 34, 43.1 +/- 4.4 years) and daughters (n = 34, 9.4 +/- 1.5 years) from Newcastle, Australia were recruited. The 9-week programme was delivered by trained facilitators and included weekly educational and practical sessions, plus home-based tasks. A priori feasibility benchmarks targeted recruitment (20 dyads), fidelity (>= 80%), attendance (>= 70%), compliance (>= 70%), satisfaction (mean: >= 4/5) and retention (>= 85%). Preliminary efficacy outcomes included cricket skill proficiency, daughters' enjoyment in cricket, intention to keep playing cricket and long-term retention in cricket. Results Feasibility benchmarks were exceeded for recruitment (n = 34 dyads), fidelity (98% education, 100% practical), attendance (88%), satisfaction (fathers: 4.6 of 5, daughters: 4.8 of 5) and retention (97%). Home-programme compliance fell short of the benchmark (64%). Preliminary efficacy was confirmed with medium-to-large effect size changes in 11 of the 13 daughters' cricket skill proficiency outcomes. Promising findings were identified for daughters' enjoyment of cricket, intention to continue playing and long-term retention in cricket. Conclusion A cricket-focused programme targeting daughters and dads was feasible and led to medium-to-large improvements in cricket skill proficiency among the daughters. Additionally, daughters were engaged with cricket, as shown by high levels of enjoyment, intention to continue playing and their long-term retention. Examining future efficacy in a larger trial is warranted.		[Morgan, Philip J.; Pollock, Emma R.; Kennedy, Stevie-Lee; Young, Myles D.; Eather, Narelle; Ashton, Lee M.] Hunter Med Res Inst, Act Living Res Program, New Lambton Hts, NSW, Australia; [Morgan, Philip J.; Pollock, Emma R.; Kennedy, Stevie-Lee; Eather, Narelle; Ashton, Lee M.] Univ Newcastle, Coll Human & Social Futures, Ctr Act Living & Learning, Sch Educ, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Young, Myles D.] Univ Newcastle, Coll Engn Sci & Environm, Sch Psychol Sci, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Ashton, Lee M.] Univ Newcastle, Coll Hlth Med & Wellbeing, Sch Hlth Sci, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Morgan, Philip J.] Univ Newcastle, ATC Bldg,Univ Dr, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia; [Morgan, Philip J.] Univ Newcastle, ATC Bldg,Univ Dr, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001001281900001	59	Article; Article		
J	Gan, Chen; Deng, Taotao; Zhao, Weishu								City Marathon Events and Tourism Industry: A Quasi-Natural Experiment								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	7			851	876		10.1177/15270025231174619			OCT 2023	2023	Building the relationship between marathon events and tourism is a significant strategy for the local governments. However, there has been little agreement on the effect of city marathon events on local tourism performance. Therefore, this research gap is addressed by providing empirical evidence for the effect of city marathon events on local tourism performance. First, the paper analyzes the theoretical mechanism of the effect of city marathon events on tourism from three aspects: the preliminary effect before marathon events, the agglomeration effect during marathon events, and the legacy effect after marathon events. Second, taking the city marathon events in China as a quasi-natural experiment, the paper uses the Difference-in-Difference model to identify the effect of the marathon events on tourism based on the panel data of 50 major tourist cities from 2010 to 2017. The results indicate that city marathon events significantly boost local tourism performance. These research findings are further confirmed by performing various robustness checks.		[Gan, Chen] Ningbo Univ Finance & Econ, Coll Int Econ & Trade, 899 Xueyuan Rd, Ningbo 315175, Peoples R China; [Deng, Taotao] Shanghai Univ Finance & Econ, Sch Urban & Reg Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Weishu] Nanjing Univ Finance & Econ, Sch Business Adm, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Gan, Chen] Ningbo Univ Finance & Econ, Coll Int Econ & Trade, 899 Xueyuan Rd, Ningbo 315175, Peoples R China								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000999955400001	51	Article; Article		
J	Chang, Kun; Uhm, Jun-Phil; Kim, Sanghoon; Lee, Hyun-Woo								Paradoxical relationship between esports toxicity and toxicity tolerance: moderated mediation by gender and positive reappraisal coping								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			737	752		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2022-0197			OCT 11 2023	2023	PurposeDespite the negative effects of toxicity on various aspects of esports communities, gamers continue to enthusiastically show their pride and engage with the game. Based on the stress and coping theory, the current study aims to shed light on how esports gamers cope with toxicity to develop toxicity tolerance by the mediation effect of positive reappraisal coping strategy.Design/methodology/approachA total of 456 gamers were included in the analysis. Structural equation modeling was performed to evaluate the hypothesized model. Gender differences in the toxicity-coping process were investigated using multi-group analysis.FindingsThe findings revealed the full mediation effect of positive reappraisal on the relationship between toxicity and toxicity tolerance, especially for male gamers. The empirical evidence of this study contributes to theorizing the transformative role of positive reappraisal in developing positive consumption outcomes when esports gamers experience toxicity in the game. The multi-group analysis provided further insights into differentiating the applicability and effectiveness of positive reappraisal based on gender.Originality/valueThe findings contributed to sport management and communication literature by allowing researchers and practitioners to move beyond a preventive coping mindset by facilitating a positive coping environment that encourages gamers to interpret the conversation and messages in a more positive manner.		[Chang, Kun; Uhm, Jun-Phil; Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, College Stn, TX 79016 USA; [Kim, Sanghoon] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI USA; [Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, College Stn, TX 79016 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000988090800001	61	Article; Article		
J	Forcher, Leander; Forcher, Leon; Altmann, Stefan; Jekauc, Darko; Kempe, Matthias								Is a compact organization important for defensive success in elite soccer? - Analysis based on player tracking data								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			757	768	17479541231172695	10.1177/17479541231172695			APR 2024	2024	The interest in tactical analysis in soccer has increased in the latest years, especially with the growing availability of player tracking data. With it, the defending team's compact organization, which is considered by practitioners to be an important factor in defense, was repeatedly examined. However, the connection between this defensive principle of play and the defending success remains unclear. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the relation of the principle of playing defensive compact organization to the success of the defense. Based on tracking and event data of 153 games of the German Bundesliga (season 2020/21), the compactness (surface area, spread of the team, and of defending subgroups) and the organization (distances between formation lines) of the defending team was compared between successful and unsuccessful defensive plays. There were almost no differences in the compactness of the whole team, and the organizational measures between successful and unsuccessful defensive plays. The defending subgroup of five defenders closest to the ball showed a higher compactness (smaller surface area and smaller spread) in successful defensive plays compared to unsuccessful ones (-0.08 <= d <= -0.16). Our results indicate that the compactness of players in areas close to the ball seems crucial for defensive success. However, the compact organization of the entire team does not seem important to regain the ball in defense.		[Forcher, Leander; Forcher, Leon; Altmann, Stefan; Jekauc, Darko] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Karlsruhe, Germany; [Forcher, Leander; Forcher, Leon] TSG 1899 Hoffenheim, Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Altmann, Stefan] TSG ResearchLab gGmbH, Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Kempe, Matthias] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Forcher, Leander] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Engler Bunte Ring 15, D-76133 Karlsruhe, Germany; [Forcher, Leander] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Engler Bunte Ring 15, D-76133 Karlsruhe, Germany								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001001019400001	41	Article; Article		
J	Moeda, Frederico; Melo, Xavier; Hatia, Madjer; Pinho, Sergio; Calado, Duarte; de Andrade, Miguel Rovisco; Tomas, Nuno; Barbosa, Jorge								Clinical and ultrasound findings of 'swimmer's shoulder' and its association with training history in elite Portuguese swimmers: a cross-sectional study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	2			187	199		10.1080/00913847.2023.2211994			MAR 3 2024	2024	ObjectivesTo assess the prevalence of shoulder injuries and ultrasound findings in elite Portuguese swimmers and their association with symptoms and personal or training-related factors.MethodsThis cross-sectional study was conducted at the Portuguese Open and Youth Swimming National Championships between 27 and 30th July 2022. Each athlete entered details regarding personal and training history into a questionnaire and underwent a physical and ultrasound shoulder examination.ResultsA total of 102 swimmers out of 662 Portuguese athletes were included in the study. Shoulder pain experienced during the previous season was reported by 42% of the athletes. A high prevalence of shoulder structural abnormalities was noted, specifically supraspinatus tendinosis (91%), tears (29%), and subacromial bursitis (29%). Specific training for injury prevention was associated with higher rates of infraspinatus tendinosis (p = 0.047), and supraspinatus tears were linked to greater swimming distances per week (p < 0.001) and practice (p < 0.001), more years of practice (p = 0.018), shoulder pain at the time of evaluation (p = 0.023), a higher number of missed competitions (p = 0.041), and shoulder injections (p = 0.009). Subacromial bursitis was associated with shoulder pain at the time of evaluation (p = 0.002) and during the previous season (p < 0.001), missed competitions (p < 0.001), and requirement for physical therapy (p = 0.006).ConclusionsA high prevalence of shoulder morphological changes was found in surveyed swimmers and there were several associations with training load, regardless of individual characteristics of each athlete. It is essential to understand the true impact of current injury prevention programs and to develop effective measures to protect swimmers' health.		[Moeda, Frederico; Melo, Xavier; Hatia, Madjer; Pinho, Sergio; Calado, Duarte; de Andrade, Miguel Rovisco; Tomas, Nuno; Barbosa, Jorge] Ctr Hosp Lisboa Ocidental EPE, Phys Med & Rehabil, Lisbon, Portugal; [Moeda, Frederico] Ctr Hosp Lisboa Ocidental EPE, Phys Med & Rehabil, Lisbon, Portugal								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000987915000001	37	Article; Article		
J	Bulkley, Devin; Jarvis, Danielle N.								Dancers exhibit decreases in postural control after fatigue								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3358	3369		10.1080/14763141.2023.2212643			DEC 1 2024	2024	Dancers require exceptional postural control to combat mechanically unstable positions. Dancers are prone to developing fatigue, which may increase the risk of injury. We investigated the effects of a dance-specific fatigue protocol on static postural control in a passe stance in 15 healthy dancers. A 12-camera video motion analysis system and a force plate were used to collect kinematic and kinetic data. After fatigue, significant increases in centre of pressure displacement were observed in the anterior-posterior direction on both legs (4.13 +/- 0.71 mm pre-fatigue, 5.57 +/- 1.9 mm post-fatigue dominant; p = 0.005; 4.41 +/- 1.19 mm pre-fatigue, 5.24 +/- 1.16 mm post-fatigue non-dominant; p = 0.018) and the medio-lateral direction on the non-dominant leg (3.18 +/- 0.49 mm pre-fatigue, 3.37 +/- 0.57 mm post-fatigue; p = 0.033). Sway area was significantly increased in the non-dominant leg only (52.1 +/- 19.6 mm(2) pre-fatigue, 64.1 +/- 18.9 mm(2) post-fatigue; p = 0.006). Significant increases in joint excursion for both legs were observed at the hip in the sagittal and frontal planes and the knee in the sagittal plane. There were significant increases in excursion for the non-dominant ankle in the sagittal plane. Static postural control was significantly affected by the fatigue protocol; the dominant leg appears to be more resistant to fatigue than the non-dominant leg. Therefore, dancers should include stability training that induces fatigue to increase balance recovery.		[Bulkley, Devin; Jarvis, Danielle N.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Jarvis, Danielle N.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000985686300001	21	Article; Article		
J	Cormier, Abigail; Eggers, Austin F.; Groothuis, Peter A.; Rotthoff, Kurt W.								The Flutie and Anti-Flutie Effect: The Impact of Football Championships and Athletic Malfeasance on the University								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	7			903	931		10.1177/15270025231174618			OCT 2023	2023	Athletics can impact the entire university, and there is evidence that administrators' peer rankings are influenced by athletics as well. We analyze both the positive effect of winning championships and the negative effects of football bowl bans and vacated games. We find that championship effects are positive: increasing peer rankings, alumni giving, and student academic quality. Surprisingly, peer rankings increase the year of the football bowl ban but decrease the year after the ban. Additionally, there is evidence that bowl bans increase a school's acceptance rate and decrease academic quality at the sanctioned university, whereas vacated games lower alumni giving.		[Cormier, Abigail] Univ Georgia, Dept Econ, Athens, GA USA; [Eggers, Austin F.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Finance Banking & Insurance, Boone, NC USA; [Groothuis, Peter A.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Econ, Boone, NC USA; [Rotthoff, Kurt W.] Seton Hall Univ, Dept Econ & Legal Studies, S Orange, NJ USA; [Rotthoff, Kurt W.] Seton Hall Univ, S Orange, NJ 07079 USA; [Rotthoff, Kurt W.] Seton Hall Univ, S Orange, NJ 07079 USA								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000986333500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Deuker, Albert; Braunstein, Bjoern; Chow, Jia Yi; Fichtl, Maximilian; Kim, Hyoek; Koerner, Swen; Rein, Robert								"Train as you play": Improving effectiveness of training in youth soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			677	686		10.1177/17479541231172702			APR 2024	2024	Purpose The present study investigates to what extend de-contextualized practice is necessary to acquire technical skills in developmental soccer training. Typically, open play is considered beneficial for acquiring tactical skills, whereas specific drills are used to support the development of technical skills like passing and shooting. Therefore, a field-based study was designed to investigate the effectiveness of a Nonlinear Pedagogy (NP) approach in contrast to a classical Deliberate Practice approach to improve passing performance in young developmental soccer players. Method Forty young male players (age 10 +/- 1 years) were randomly assigned to three groups (PLAY, PRACTICE, and CONTROL). The PRACTICE group performed classical passing drills, whereas the PLAY group underwent a NP training regime. Passing skill was assessed before and after a 5-week training program using a standardized passing test according to the German Football Association. Additional retention testing was performed 5 weeks later. Results The results indicated that, although the test design showed no specificity to the learning environment of the PLAY group, both groups improved passing skills after training, but the PLAY group displayed better results during retention testing (PRACTICE: p = 0.004, d = 0.48; PLAY: p = 0.001, d = 0.53) compared to the PRACTICE group. These findings are suggestive of general transfer learning in dynamic learning environments. Conclusion The findings indicate that even when there is an emphasis on "technical skill" enhancement, more effective improvement in young development players may be observed through dynamic learning environments. Consequently, this study encourages coaches to design training regimes that afford players to train as they play.		[Deuker, Albert; Koerner, Swen] German Sport Univ Cologne, Sect Training Pedag & Martial Res, Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, North Rhine Wes, Germany; [Deuker, Albert] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Profess Sport Educ & Sport Qualificat, Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, North Rhine Wes, Germany; [Braunstein, Bjoern] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Movement & Neurosci, Cologne, Germany; [Braunstein, Bjoern] Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, German Sport UniversityCologne, Cologne, Germany; [Braunstein, Bjoern] German Sport Univ Cologne, German Res Ctr Elite Sport, Cologne, Germany; [Braunstein, Bjoern] German Sport Univ Cologne, Ctr Hlth & Integrat Physiol Space, Cologne, Germany; [Chow, Jia Yi] Natl Inst Educ Singapore, Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Fichtl, Maximilian; Kim, Hyoek; Rein, Robert] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Training & Comp Sci Sport, Cologne, Germany; [Deuker, Albert] German Sport Univ Cologne, Sect Training Pedag & Martial Res, Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, North Rhine Wes, Germany; [Deuker, Albert] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Profess Sport Educ & Sport Qualificat, Sportpark Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, North Rhine Wes, Germany								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000986281600001	57	Article; Article		
J	Ross, Andrew G.; McKay, Marnee J.; Pappas, Evangelos; Whalan, Matthew; Parsanejad, Elia; Peek, Kerry								The FIFA 11+: Why is adherence so challenging? Insights from a cross-sectional study of stakeholders in Australian amateur football (soccer)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			735	744		10.1177/17479541231174506			APR 2024	2024	Objectives To explore the usage and awareness of the FIFA 11 + (11 + ) across multiple stakeholders involved with amateur football. Methods Coaches, players, non-coaching staff and medical personnel in New South Wales (NSW), Australia, were invited to complete a cross-sectional online survey, which was disseminated using a targeted email to two Football NSW member organisations and a social media campaign. Categorical data (including age-groups and sex) are presented as counts and percentages and analysed using a Chi-square or Fisher's exact test. A significance level of 0.05 was used for all analyses. Results In total 328 players, 55 coaches, 37 non-coaching staff and 16 medical personnel completed the survey (n = 436). Awareness of the 11 + was lowest among non-coaching staff (16.2%) and players (32.6%) but higher among coaches (52.7%) and medical personnel (93.8%). Once aware of the 11 + , 75.8% of all respondents used the program although 89.5% of them did so with modifications. In addition, only 40.0% of players reported completing all three parts of the 11 + program. Veteran players were less likely to complete any type of warm-up compared with junior players (63.7% vs. 96.3%, respectively). Conclusions Although awareness of the 11 + varied amongst survey respondents, 3 out of 4 respondents who were aware of the 11 + adopted the program. However, respondents reported modifying the 11 + and not completing the program as intended, which suggests modification guidance is required to maintain the efficacy of the 11 + .		[Ross, Andrew G.; McKay, Marnee J.; Pappas, Evangelos; Parsanejad, Elia; Peek, Kerry] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, Sydney, Australia; [Pappas, Evangelos] Univ Wollongong, Sch Med, Wollongong, Australia; [Pappas, Evangelos] Univ Wollongong, Illawarra Hlth & Med Res Inst, Wollongong, Australia; [Whalan, Matthew] Univ Wollongong, Ctr Med & Exercise Physiol, Sch Med, Wollongong, NSW, Australia; [Whalan, Matthew] Football Australia, Sydney, Australia; [Whalan, Matthew] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Ross, Andrew G.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Ross, Andrew G.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000985636600001	50	Article; Article		
J	Prince, Caroline; Latella, Sebastien; Gachon, Benoit; Picot, Brice								Reliability and validity of 2D-video analysis to objectively assess hamstring performance during the H-test								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			985	998		10.1080/14763141.2023.2203132			APR 3 2025	2025	The H-test is commonly used during return-to-sport decisions after hamstring muscle injury. The primary aim was to evaluate the reliability of two-dimensional (2D) video analysis for the H-Test. The second aim was to assess its validity compared to an electronic gyroscope (gold standard), and the third aim was to establish normative values. We conducted a cross-sectional study including 30 healthy individuals. Mean, maximal velocities (V-Mean and V-max) and range of motion (ROM) of hip flexion were captured during the H-test to evaluate inter-rater and test-retest reliability using intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC2,1) and standard error of measurement (SEM). Correlation analysis (r) and as typical error of estimate (TEE) were used to assess the validity between the video and the gyroscope. Reliability was excellent for ROM (ICC:0.91, [95% CI:0.83-0.95]), moderate for V-Mean (ICC:0.57; [95% CI:0.32-0.74]) and V-Max (ICC:0.64, [95% CI:0.43-0.79]). Strong positive correlations were found between video and gyroscope for V-Mean (r = 0.79, [95% CI:0.71-0.86]) and V-Max (r = 0.84, [95% CI:0.77-0.89]) and very strong for ROM (r = 0.89, [95% CI:0.85-0.93]). Males exhibited a higher V-Max (p < 0.001) than females, while females had a higher ROM (p < 0.001). 2D-video analysis is a valid and reliable method to assess ROM during the H-Test and could easily be implemented in clinical practice.		[Prince, Caroline; Latella, Sebastien; Gachon, Benoit; Picot, Brice] Univ Savoie Mont Blanc, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Sci, Chambery, France; [Prince, Caroline] La Tour Hosp, Physiotherapy Dept, Meyrin, Switzerland; [Prince, Caroline] La Tour Hosp, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Mot Anal Lab, Meyrin, Switzerland; [Prince, Caroline; Picot, Brice] SFMKS Lab, Soc Francaise Masseurs Kinesitherapeute Sport, Pierrefitte Sur Seine, France; [Prince, Caroline] Univ Savoie Mont Blanc, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Sci, Chambery, France; [Prince, Caroline] La Tour Hosp, Physiotherapy Dept, Meyrin, Switzerland; [Prince, Caroline] La Tour Hosp, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Mot Anal Lab, Meyrin, Switzerland								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000982492400001	36	Article; Article		
J	Alves, Micael D. D. J.; Knechtle, Beat; Silva, Devisson D. S.; Fernandes, Matheus S. D. S.; Gomes, Joao H.; Thuany, Mabliny; Aidar, Felipe J.; Weiss, Katja; De Souza, Raphael F.								Effects of High-Intensity Warm-Up on 5000-Meter Performance Time in Trained Long-Distance Runners								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			254	262		10.52082/jssm.2023.254			JUN 2023	2023	Warm-up protocols with high intensities before continuous running provide potential benefits for middle-distance runners. Nevertheless, the effect of high-intensity warm-ups on long-distance runners remains unclear. The purpose of this study was to verify the effect of a high-intensity warm-up protocol on 5000 m performance in trained runners. Thirteen male runners (34 +/- 10 years, 62 +/- 6 kg, 62.7 +/- 5.5 ml/kg/min) performed two 5000 m time trials, preceded by two different warm-ups. One high-intensity warm up (HIWU: 1x 500 m (70% of the running intensity) + 3x 250 m (100% of the running intensity) and one low-intensity warm up (LIWU: 1x 500 m (70% of the running intensity) + 3x 250 m (70% of the running intensity)), where the running intensities were calculated using the results obtained in the Cooper test. Physiological and metabolic responses, and endurance running performance parameters, were evaluated by the Counter Movement Jump (CMJ), running rating of perceived exertion (RPE), blood lactate concentration (BLa), and performance running. Total time for the 5000 m was lower using HIWU when compared to LIWU (1141.4 +/- 110.4 s vs. 1147.8 +/- 111.0 s; p = 0.03; Hedges' g = 0.66). The HIWU warm-up led to an improvement in pacing strategy during the time trial. After warm-up protocols, the performance on the CMJ was improved only when applying HIWU (p = 0.008). Post warm-up BLa was significantly higher for HIWU vs. LIWU (3.5 +/- 1.0 mmol center dot L-1 vs. 2.3 +/- 1.0 mmol center dot L-1; p = 0.02), with similar behavior for the RPE (p = 0.002), internal load of the session (p = 0.03). The study showed that a high-intensity warm-up protocol can improve performance in the 5000 m in trained endurance runners.		[Alves, Micael D. D. J.; Silva, Devisson D. S.; Gomes, Joao H.; Aidar, Felipe J.; De Souza, Raphael F.] Fed Univ Sergipe UFS, Dept Phys Educ, Sao Cristovao, Brazil; [Alves, Micael D. D. J.; Silva, Devisson D. S.; Aidar, Felipe J.; De Souza, Raphael F.] Fed Univ Sergipe UFS, Grad Program Phys Educ, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, Sao Cristovao, Brazil; [Alves, Micael D. D. J.; Silva, Devisson D. S.; Aidar, Felipe J.; De Souza, Raphael F.] Fed Univ Sergipe UFS, Grp Studies & Res Performance Sport Hlth & Paraly, Sergipe, Brazil; [Knechtle, Beat; Weiss, Katja] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl, St Gallen, Switzerland; [Fernandes, Matheus S. D. S.] Fed Univ Pernambuco UFPE, Grad Program, Postgrad Program Neuropsychiat & Behav Sci, Recife, Brazil; [Thuany, Mabliny] Univ Porto, Fac Sports, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl, Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000986739500001	41	Article; Article		
J	Carson, Fraser; Walsh, Julia								Coaching athletes with an intellectual disability at a national championship tournament								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1420	1429		10.1177/17479541231174093			OCT 2023	2023	Coaching at a national championship tournament is different to coaching across a competitive season. The team and coaches are away from their regular environment and their normal support mechanisms are distant. While much is known about stressors for coaches in high-performance sport, the current study explored how these were manifested during the intensity of a championship tournament and the coping strategies employed by one coach of a selected, intellectually disabled basketball team. This social phenomenological analysis identified four primary stressors, creating unity and development of trust, management of parents, management of inexperienced coaching/support staff, and crisis management of a critical incident. Coping strategies employed during the tournament included planning, time alone for stress-recovery management and working with a qualified expert to manage a critical incident. The temporariness of the tournament brings unique stressors for the coach and a need to manage these quickly and efficiently, especially for athletes with an intellectual disability. The coach identified that it is unlike any other type of competition, as there is absolute consumption on the tournament and a need to create a rhythm to function effectively. The need for all team members to understand their role and responsibility suggests that a collaborative approach to leadership is essential. Failure to adapt to the tournament circumstances can inhibit chances of success.		[Carson, Fraser] LUNEX Int Univ Hlth Exercise & Sports, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Differdange, Luxembourg; [Carson, Fraser] Luxembourg Hlth & Sport Sci Res Inst Asbl, Differdange, Luxembourg; [Walsh, Julia] La Trobe Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Carson, Fraser] LUNEX Int Univ Hlth Exercise & Sports, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, L-4671 Differdange, Luxembourg; [Carson, Fraser] Luxembourg Hlth & Sport Sci Res Inst Asbl, L-4671 Differdange, Luxembourg; [Carson, Fraser] LUNEX Int Univ Hlth Exercise & Sports, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, L-4671 Differdange, Luxembourg; [Carson, Fraser] Luxembourg Hlth & Sport Sci Res Inst Asbl, L-4671 Differdange, Luxembourg								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000983340500001	54	Article; Article		
J	Moulds, Kylie; Fraser, Kotryna K.; Karp, Josh; Kapocius, Olivia; Heathcote, Mark; Appleton, Paul R.; Cobley, Stephen								Coach-created motivational climate ratings differentiate between dropout and continuation in Australian youth swimming								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1395	1404		10.1177/17479541231174806			OCT 2023	2023	Objectives Applying Bronfenbrenner's Bio-Ecological Systems Theory and PPCT model recommendations, this study examined whether specific or multiple factors were associated with participation status in Australian youth swimming; a context known for high dropout rates. Methods Participants were continuing (N = 99) and former (N = 104) swimmers, aged 8-18 years, who competed at club-national level in New South Wales, Australia. Participants completed an online survey, examining socio-demographic, participation history, and coach-created motivational climate characteristics (using the EDMCQ-C). To identify influential factors, a combination of T-tests, Odds Ratios, and MANOVA analyses were used. To confirm the presence of coach-motivational climate types and their association with participant status, cluster analyses with follow-up Odds Ratios were used. Results Except athlete age and sex, other socio-demographic, participation history, and family sport history participation were not associated with dropout. Meanwhile, EDMCQ-C analyses identified three cluster types of coach-created climate (empowering, disempowering, and neutral), with disempowering and empowering types, respectively, associated with dropout and continuation. The neutral climate was associated with low-moderate EDMCQ-C sub-scale scoring and was neither associated with dropout nor continuation. Conclusion Findings identify the influence of coach-created motivational climates and not athlete-related factors on continued Australian youth swimming participation, highlighting coaching implications.		[Moulds, Kylie; Fraser, Kotryna K.; Cobley, Stephen] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Camperdown, NSW, Australia; [Karp, Josh; Kapocius, Olivia] Swimming New South Wales Ltd, Homebush, NSW, Australia; [Appleton, Paul R.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Fac Sci & Engn, Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med Res Ctr, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, England; [Appleton, Paul R.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ Inst Sport, Manchester, England; [Moulds, Kylie] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Level 6 Susan Wakil Hlth Bldg D18, Camperdown, NSW 2006, Australia; [Moulds, Kylie] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Camperdown, NSW, Australia; [Moulds, Kylie] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Level 6 Susan Wakil Hlth Bldg D18, Camperdown, NSW 2006, Australia								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000983340100001	1	Article; Article		
J	Song, Yu; Li, Ling; Jensen, Megan A.; Dai, Boyi								Jump-landing kinetic asymmetries persisted despite symmetric squat kinetics in collegiate athletes following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			999	1012		10.1080/14763141.2023.2207552			APR 3 2025	2025	The purpose was to determine the differences/correlations in anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) loading variables and bilateral asymmetries between injured/uninjured legs and among ascending/descending phases of double-leg squats and jumping/landing phases of countermovement jumps (CMJ) in the collegiate athletes following ACL reconstruction (ACLR). Fourteen collegiate athletes performed squats and CMJ 6-14 months following ACLR. The bilateral knee/hip flexion angles, peak vertical ground reaction force (VGRF) and knee extension moments (KEM), and kinetic asymmetries were calculated. Squats showed the greatest knee/hip flexion angles, while the landing phase of CMJ showed the least (P<0.001). The uninjured leg demonstrated greater VGRF (P <= 0.010) and KEM (P <= 0.008) than the injured leg in CMJ. Kinetic asymmetries were less than 10% for squats but were greater for the jumping (P <= 0.014, 12%-25%) and landing (P <= 0.047, 16%-27%) phases of CMJ. Significant correlations were found for KEM asymmetries between phases of CMJ (P=0.050) and squats (P<0.001). Kinetic asymmetries persisted in CMJ, while kinetic symmetries were achieved in squats in collegiate athletes 6-14 months following ACLR. Therefore, the CMJ appears to be a more sensitive assessment to monitor the bilateral kinetic asymmetries compared to squats. It is suggested to assess and screen kinetic asymmetries in different phases and tasks.		[Song, Yu; Li, Ling; Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Jensen, Megan A.] Univ Wyoming, Dept Sports Med, Laramie, WY USA; [Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000982775400001	31	Article; Article		
J	Weart, Amy N.; Miller, Erin M.; Brindle, Richard A.; Ford, Kevin R.; Goss, Donald L.								Wearable technology assessing running biomechanics and prospective running-related injuries in Active Duty Soldiers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			1031	1047		10.1080/14763141.2023.2208568			APR 3 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to determine if running biomechanical variables measured by wearable technology were prospectively associated with running injuries in Active Duty Soldiers. A total of 171 Soldiers wore a shoe pod that collected data on running foot strike pattern, step rate, step length and contact time for 6 weeks. Running-related injuries were determined by medical record review 12 months post-study enrollment. Differences in running biomechanics between injured and non-injured runners were compared using independent t-tests or ANCOVA for continuous variables and chi-square analyses for the association of categorical variables. Kaplan-Meier survival curves were used to estimate the time to a running-related injury. Risk factors were carried forward to estimate hazard ratios using Cox proportional hazard regression models. Forty-one participants (24%) sustained a running-related injury. Injured participants had a lower step rate than non-injured participants, but step rate did not have a significant effect on time to injury. Participants with the longest contact time were at a 2.25 times greater risk for a running-related injury; they were also relatively slower, heavier, and older. Concomitant with known demographic risk factors for injury, contact time may be an additional indicator of a running-related injury risk in Active Duty Soldiers.		[Weart, Amy N.; Miller, Erin M.] Keller Army Community Hosp, Dept Phys Therapy, West Point, NY 10996 USA; [Miller, Erin M.] Baylor Univ, Keller Army Community Hosp, Div Sports Phys Therapy Fellowship 1, West Point, NY USA; [Brindle, Richard A.] Shaw Ind Grp Inc, Dalton, GA USA; [Ford, Kevin R.] High Point Univ, Congdon Sch Hlth Sci, High Point, NC USA; [Goss, Donald L.] High Point Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, High Point, NC USA; [Weart, Amy N.] Keller Army Community Hosp, Dept Phys Therapy, West Point, NY 10996 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000982406900001	60	Article; Article		
J	Freemyer, Bret; Andrews, Samantha; Stickley, Christopher								Allometric Scaling Hip Joint Moments Optimally Reduces Anthropometric Differences in Males and Females								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3213	3223		10.1080/14763141.2023.2205378			DEC 1 2024	2024	Running biomechanics are scaled to reduce the effects of anthropometric differences between participants. Ratio scaling has limitations, and allometric scaling has not been applied to hip joint moments. The aim was to compare raw, ratio and allometrically scaled hip joint moments. Sagittal and frontal plane moments of 84 males and 47 females were calculated while running at 4.0 m/s. Raw data were ratio scaled by body mass (BM), height (HT), leg length (LL) and BM multiplied by HT (BM*HT) and LL (BM*LL). Log-linear (for BM, HT and LL individually) or log-multilinear regression (BM*HT and BM*LL) exponents were calculated. Correlations and r(2) values assessed the effectiveness of each scaling method. Eighty-five per cent of raw moments were positively correlated to the anthropometrics with r(2) values of 10-19%. In ratio scaling, 26-43% were significantly correlated to the moments and a majority were negative, indicating overcorrections. The most effective scaling procedure was the allometric BM*HT, as the mean shared variance between the hip moment and anthropometrics was 0.1-0.2% across all sexes and moments and none had significant correlations. Allometric scaling of hip joint moments during running are advised if the goal is to remove the underlying effects of anthropometrics across male and female participants.		[Freemyer, Bret; Andrews, Samantha; Stickley, Christopher] Univ Hawaii, Dept Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Stickley, Christopher] Univ Hawaii, John Burns Sch Med, Dept Anat Biochem & Physiol, Honolulu, HI USA; [Freemyer, Bret] Univ Hawaii, Dept Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000980264700001	23	Article; Article		
J	Felton, P. J.								Factors influencing sports science students' elective biomechanics enrolment decisions								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	10			3048	3061		10.1080/14763141.2023.2207554			OCT 3 2025	2025	The modularisation of sports science curricula allows students to individualise degrees to fit their interests and aspirations via elective modules. The aim of this study was to explore the factors which influence sports science students' elective biomechanics enrolment decisions. A total of 45 students completed an online survey focussing on personal and academic characteristics which may influence enrolment decisions. Significant differences were found for three personal characteristics. Biomechanics module enrolees were more positive in their self-concept of subject ability, had a greater like for their previous subject experience, and displayed a higher agreement in requiring the knowledge for future career aspirations. Although, statistical power was reduced when respondents were categorised into demographic sub-groups, exploratory analysis highlighted self-concept of subject ability may differentiate female students' enrolment, while previous subject experience may distinguish male students' enrolment and academic entry route students' enrolment. Undergraduate sports science core biomechanics modules should consider adopting learning pedagogies which help to increase individual students' self-concept of ability and inspires them to recognise the value of biomechanics in their potential career aspirations.		[Felton, P. J.] Nottingham Trent Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Nottingham, England; [Felton, P. J.] Nottingham Trent Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Nottingham, England								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000980845700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Levine, Nicholas A. A.; Baek, Seungho; Tuttle, Noelle; Alvis, Hunter B. B.; Hung, Cheng-Ju; Sokoloski, Matthew L. L.; Kim, Jemin; Hamner, Mark S. S.; Lee, Sangwoo; Rigby, Brandon R. R.; Kwon, Young-Hoo								Biomechanical effects of fatigue on lower-body extremities during a maximum effort kettlebell swing protocol								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			1013	1030		10.1080/14763141.2023.2207556			APR 3 2025	2025	Kettlebell training provides multiple health benefits, including the generation of power. The primary purpose of this study was to examine the kinematics and kinetics of lower-body joints during a repeated, maximum effort kettlebell swing protocol. Sixteen resistance and kettlebell swing experienced males performed 10 rounds of a kettlebell swing routine (where one round equates to 30s of swings followed by 30s of rest). Kinematic (i.e., swing duration and angular velocities) and kinetic (i.e., normalised sagittal plane ground reaction force, resultant joint moment [RJM] and power) variables were extracted for the early portion and late portion of the round. Average swing duration and the magnitude of normalised ground reaction forces (GRF) increased within rounds, while hip joint power decreased. Changes in swing duration were minimal, but consistent due to an increase in overall fatigue. An increase in the magnitude of GRF was observed at the end of rounds, which is a potential concern for injury. Hip joint power decreased primarily due to a slower angular velocity. This protocol may be an effective routine for those who are resistance trained with kettlebell swing experience, and who want to optimise power in their exercise program.		[Levine, Nicholas A. A.; Baek, Seungho; Tuttle, Noelle; Alvis, Hunter B. B.; Hung, Cheng-Ju; Sokoloski, Matthew L. L.; Hamner, Mark S. S.; Rigby, Brandon R. R.; Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womans Univ, Sch Hlth Promot & Kinesiol, Biomech & Motor Behav Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Kim, Jemin] Louisiana State Univ Shreveport, Biomech Lab, Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Shreveport, LA USA; [Lee, Sangwoo] Western Michigan Univ, Biomech Lab, Kalamazoo, MI USA; [Levine, Nicholas A. A.] Texas Womans Univ, Sch Hlth Promot & Kinesiol, Biomech & Motor Behav Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000978665800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Sakurai, M.; Barrack, A. J.; Lobb, N. J.; Wee, C. P.; Diaz, P. R.; Michener, L. A.; Karduna, A. R.								Collegiate baseball pitchers demonstrate a relationship between ball velocity and elbow varus torque, both within and across pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3103	3111		10.1080/14763141.2023.2205380			DEC 1 2024	2024	High elbow varus torque during baseball pitching has been identified as a potential cause of ulnar collateral ligament injury in baseball pitchers. In general, elbow varus torque increases as ball velocity increases across pitchers. However, studies incorporating within-subject analyses report that not all professional pitchers have a positive relationship between elbow varus torque and ball velocity (T-V relationship). It remains unknown whether collegiate pitchers show the same trend as professionals in their T-V relationships. The current study investigated the T-V relationship of collegiate pitchers focusing on both across and within pitchers. Division 1 collegiate pitchers (n = 81) were assessed for elbow torque and ball velocity during pitching. Both across- and within-pitcher T-V relationships were significant (p < 0.05) using linear regression. However, more variance in elbow varus torque was explained using the within-pitcher relationship (R-2 = 0.29) than the across-pitcher relationship (R-2 = 0.05). Of the 81 pitchers, nearly half (n = 39) had significant T-V relationships, while the other half (n = 42) did not. Our findings indicate that the T-V relationship should be assessed on an individual basis as T-V is pitcher-specific.		[Sakurai, M.; Karduna, A. R.] Univ Oregon, Dept Human Physiol, Eugene, OR 97403 USA; [Barrack, A. J.; Lobb, N. J.; Wee, C. P.; Diaz, P. R.; Michener, L. A.] Univ Southern Calif, Div Biokinesiol & Phys Therapy, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Karduna, A. R.] Univ Oregon, Dept Human Physiol, Eugene, OR 97403 USA								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000975987000001	25	Article; Article		
J	Rochael, Marcelo; Praca, Gibson Moreira								Designing small-sided games for counter-attack training in youth soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			687	697		10.1177/17479541231170830			APR 2024	2024	The present study aimed to test different designs of counter-attacking training on tactical behaviour by manipulating the number of players and time pressure (limitation on the duration of the players' offensive action). Specifically, we compared the influence of time pressure and numerical superiority (through an additional player) on the players' performance and tactical behaviour in small-sided games (SSGs). Forty under-17 soccer athletes participated in the study. The athletes performed 4 SSGs in the following configurations: numerical equality and time pressure (GR-4 x 4-GR - TP); numerical equality and no time pressure (GR-4 x 4-GR - NTP); numerical superiority and time pressure (GR-5 x 4-GR - TP) and numerical superiority and no time pressure (GR-5 x 4-GR - NTP). Tactical performance was evaluated using the Game Performance Evaluation Tool (GPET), and tactical behaviour using positional data measured by the Global Positioning System. The statistical analysis was performed using two-way repeated measures analysis of variance. There was a better tactical performance in decision-making (0.669 +/- 0.135, p = .02 and r = .27) and execution (0.602 +/- 0.134, p = .002 and r = .44) of technical-tactical actions in the SSG without the time pressure rule. Furthermore, the space exploration index showed lower values (5.634 +/- 0.604, p = .007 and r = .32) in games with time pressure than in games without this rule, and there were no significant differences for player length and width behaviour between protocols. It is concluded that the time pressure rule reduces the exploratory behaviour of the players. Understanding these effects allows coaches to plan better training sessions that address the contents of counter-attacks in SSG.		[Rochael, Marcelo; Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Ctr Estudos Cognicao & Acao, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Terapia Ocupac, Presidente Antonio Carlos Ave 6627, Belo Horizonte 31270901, MG, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000975937900001	47	Article; Article		
J	Dong, Lily; Berryman, Nicolas; Romeas, Thomas								Questioning the validity and reliability of using a video-based test to assess decision making among female and male water polo players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			628	637		10.1177/17479541231170278			APR 2024	2024	This study aimed to evaluate the validity and reliability of a water polo video-based test to assess decision making. Ninety-five female and male elite/tier 4 (T4) or highly trained/tier 3 (T3) athletes participated using their smartphones. Males repeated the test one week later for reliability analyses. Coaches assessed males' in-water decision making and females were noted as selected or nonselected for the national team. Although response accuracy was significantly different between T3 and T4 athletes (p < .001) and correlated with age (r(s)(88) = 0.43), sex-specific analyses identified that the only significant differences in accuracy were between T3 females and the other three groups (T4 females, T3 males, and T4 males). There was no correlation between males' accuracy and coach-rated decision making skill, and no difference in accuracy between selected and nonselected females. Reliability analyses comparing performance between weeks revealed an ICC of 0.75, a standard error of measurement of 3.41%, and a significant improvement from week 1 to week 2 among T4 males (p = .018). Despite associations between accuracy and age, the test was not able to distinguish between more similar groups of athletes. Considering the nonrepresentative design of the test, the construct assessed was declarative game knowledge rather than decision making skill, with the results suggesting that the former is not critical for evaluating elite players. The performance improvement between weeks among T4 males reinforces that video-based designs should be used cautiously in high-performance sport. However, there may still be practical applications for video-based designs, such as in video review sessions or as a pedagogical tool.		[Dong, Lily; Berryman, Nicolas] Univ Quebec Montreal UQAM, Dept Sci Act Phys, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Dong, Lily; Berryman, Nicolas; Romeas, Thomas] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, 4141 Ave Pierre De Coubertin, Montreal, PQ H1V 3N7, Canada; [Berryman, Nicolas] Inst Univ Geriatrie Montreal CRIUGM, Ctr Rech, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Romeas, Thomas] Univ Montreal, Ecole Optometrie, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Romeas, Thomas] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, 4141 Ave Pierre De Coubertin, Montreal, PQ H1V 3N7, Canada; [Romeas, Thomas] Univ Montreal, Ecole Optometrie, Montreal, PQ, Canada								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000975791600001	52	Article; Article		
J	Mitchell, Cecilia V.; Nagai, Takashi; Bates, Nathaniel A.; Schilaty, Nathan D.								Neck strength and force in reaction time task of adolescent athletes with and without concussion history: A pilot study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				192	197		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.04.008			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: Assess the impact of concussion by comparing reaction time, peak force recruitment, and rate of force development of adolescent athletes returning from concussion against age-and sex-matched controls in visual-elicited neck movement. Design: Athletes sat secured in a custom-built isometric device with their heads secured in a helmet and attached to a 6-axis load cell. They performed neck flexion, extension, and lateral flexion in response to a visual cue. Three trials in each direction were used for statistical analyses; peak force and rate of force development were normalized against athlete mass. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 26 adolescent/young adult athletes (8F/18M), either recently concussed (and cleared for return to sport) or an age-and sex-matched healthy control. Main outcome measures: Reaction time, angle, standard deviation of angle, deviation from target angle, peak force, and RFD over 50, 100, 150,and 200 ms of movement were measured for each trial. Results: Concussed athletes had decreased normalized peak force (P = 0.008) and rate of force devel-opment (P < 0.001-0.0 07). In neck extension, concussed athletes also had decreased movement pre-cision (P = 0.012). Conclusions: Concussion is associated with alterations of neck biomechanics that decrease overall neck strength. (c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mitchell, Cecilia V.] Mayo Clin, Alix Sch Med, Rochester, MN USA; [Nagai, Takashi; Bates, Nathaniel A.; Schilaty, Nathan D.] Mayo Clin, Dept Orthoped Surg, Rochester, MN USA; [Nagai, Takashi] US Army Res Inst Environm Med, Natick, MA USA; [Bates, Nathaniel A.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Columbus, OH USA; [Schilaty, Nathan D.] Univ S Florida, Dept Neurosurg & Brain Repair, 3515 E Fletcher Ave,MDT 1563, Tampa, FL 33613 USA; [Schilaty, Nathan D.] Univ S Florida, Dept Med Engn, Tampa, FL USA; [Schilaty, Nathan D.] Univ S Florida, Ctr Neuromusculoskeletal Res, Tampa, FL USA; [Schilaty, Nathan D.] Univ S Florida, Dept Neurosurg & Brain Repair, 3515 Fletcher Ave,MDT 1563, Tampa, FL 33613 USA; [Schilaty, Nathan D.] Univ S Florida, Dept Neurosurg & Brain Repair, 3515 E Fletcher Ave,MDT 1563, Tampa, FL 33613 USA; [Schilaty, Nathan D.] Univ S Florida, Dept Neurosurg & Brain Repair, 3515 Fletcher Ave,MDT 1563, Tampa, FL 33613 USA								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000989054700001	24	Article; Article		
J	Terrien, Eric; Huet, Benoit; Iachkine, Paul; Saury, Jacques								Considering perceptual experiences and adaptive actions in performance analysis of elite Formula Kite riders by combining qualitative data and measured key indicators of performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			368	378		10.1177/17479541231153273			FEB 2024	2024	Formula Kite is a high-speed sailing sport using hydrofoils, recently included in the Olympic sports list. In Formula Kite, the riders' technical abilities to reach and maintain high speed are key to achieving performance. The aim of the present study was to analyze Formula Kite riders' performance during speed tests in practice sessions by combining qualitative descriptions of their lived perceptual experiences "from the inside" with measured correlates of performance. The courses of experience of four expert Formula Kite riders' speed tests were analyzed, compared, and discussed in relation to their measured Velocity Made Good. Results of the qualitative analyses provide original insight into the fine technical adaptations of the riders in their pursuit of performance. Furthermore, the comparison between the evaluated performance using speed measurements and the perceived performance assessed by the qualitative analysis shows interindividual differences as well as inconsistencies between the two modes of analysis. Based on these results, the present study opens practical perspectives for improving training practices, consisting in "calibrating" the sailors' perceived performance with measured performance.		[Terrien, Eric; Huet, Benoit; Saury, Jacques] Nantes Univ, Movement Interact Performance, Nantes, France; [Iachkine, Paul] Ecole Natl Voile & Sports Naut, Quiberon, France; [Terrien, Eric] Nantes Univ, Movement Interact Performance, EA 4334, F-44000 Nantes, France; [Terrien, Eric] Nantes Univ, Movement Interact Performance, EA 4334, F-44000 Nantes, France								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000976000500001	42	Article; Article		
J	Seminati, Elena; Cazzola, Dario; Trewartha, Grant; Preatoni, Ezio								Tackle direction and preferred side affect upper body loads and movements in rugby union tackling								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	10			3031	3047		10.1080/14763141.2023.2201248			OCT 3 2025	2025	Tackling in Rugby Union is associated with most match injuries. New tackle regulations have been explored to reduce injuries, but limited quantitative evidence is available to inform any law changes. Using a novel tackle simulator, we investigated upper body loading under different tackling conditions: direction of approach (0 degrees - frontal, 45 degrees and 90 degrees to the ball carrier direction) and side of body (dominant vs. non-dominant). Peak impact force between tackler and simulator , and head and upper trunk segment motions were measured from 10 male players. Impact load averages were 17% higher at (0 degrees) compared with (90 degrees), across the two different tackling sides (p = 0.093), with the highest impact force measured during dominant-side shoulder tackles at 0 degrees (5.63 +/- 1.14 kN). Trunk resultant accelerations were higher (+19%, p = 0.010) at 0 degrees compared with 90 degrees, with the highest resultant acceleration measured in frontal tackles with the dominant shoulder (17.52 +/- 3.97 g). We observed higher head lateral bending around the impact when tackling with the non-dominant shoulder at 45 degrees (p = 0.024) and 90 degrees (p = 0.047). Tackling from an offset angle from frontal may be safer. Deficiencies in tackling techniques on the non-dominant side should be reduced.		[Seminati, Elena; Cazzola, Dario; Trewartha, Grant; Preatoni, Ezio] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Seminati, Elena; Cazzola, Dario; Trewartha, Grant; Preatoni, Ezio] Univ Bath, Ctr Hlth & Injury & Illness Prevent Sport, Bath, England; [Seminati, Elena] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Seminati, Elena] Univ Bath, Ctr Hlth & Injury & Illness Prevent Sport, Bath, England								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000973768700001	36	Article; Article		
J	Sacilotto, Gina; Sanders, Ross; Gonjo, Tomohiro; Marinho, Daniel; Mason, Bruce; Naemi, Roozbeh; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Papic, Christopher								"Selecting the right tool for the job" a narrative overview of experimental methods used to measure or estimate active and passive drag in competitive swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1572	1589		10.1080/14763141.2023.2197858			DEC 2 2023	2023	Free-swimming performance depends strongly on the ability to develop propulsive force and minimise resistive drag. Therefore, estimating resistive drag (passive or active) may be important to understand how free-swimming performance can be improved. The purpose of this narrative overview was to describe and discuss experimental methods of measuring or estimating active and passive drag relevant to competitive swimming. Studies were identified using a mixed-model approach comprising a search of SCOPUS and Web of Science data bases, follow-up of relevant studies cited in manuscripts from the primary search, and additional studies identified by the co-authors based on their specific areas of fluid dynamics expertise. The utility and limitations of active and passive drag methods were critically discussed with reference to primary research domains in this field, 'swimmer morphology' and 'technique analysis'. This overview and the subsequent discussions provide implications for researchers when selecting an appropriate method to measure resistive forces (active or passive) relevant to improving performance in free-swimming.		[Sacilotto, Gina] Carlile Swimming, Sydney, Australia; [Sanders, Ross] Univ Sydney, Sydney, Australia; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Bournemouth Univ, Dept Rehabil & Sport Sci, Dorset, England; [Marinho, Daniel] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Mason, Bruce] Asppen Co, Canberra, Australia; [Naemi, Roozbeh] Staffordshire Univ, Sch Life Sci & Educ, Stoke On Trent, England; [Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Papic, Christopher] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Exercise & Sports Sci, Armidale, Australia; [Sacilotto, Gina] Carlile Swimming, Sydney, Australia								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000983410800001	74	Article; Article		
J	Rappelt, Ludwig; Micke, Florian; Held, Steffen; Doermann, Ulrike; Kleinoeder, Heinz; Donath, Lars								Effects of Four Weeks of Static vs. Dynamic Bodyweight Exercises with Whole-Body Electromyostimulation on Jump and Strength Performance: A Two-Armed, Randomized, Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			226	234		10.52082/jssm.2023.226			JUN 2023	2023	The combination of strength training with complementary wholebody electromyostimulation (WB-EMS) and plyometric exercises has been shown to increase strength and jumping performance in athletes. In elite sport, however, the mesocycles of training are often organized according to block periodization. Furthermore, WB-EMS is often applied onto static strength exercises, which may hamper the transfer into more sport-specific tasks. Thus, this study aimed at investigating whether four weeks of strength training with complementary dynamic vs. static WBEMS followed by a four-week block of plyometric training increases maximal strength and jumping performance. A total of n = 26 (13 female/13 male) trained adults (20.8 +/- 2.2 years, 69.5 +/- 9.5kg, 9.7 +/- 6.1h of training/w) were randomly assigned to a static (STA) or volume-, load- and work-to-rest-ratio-matched dynamic training group (DYN). Before (PRE), after four weeks (three times weekly) of WB-EMS training (MID) and a subsequent fourweek block (twice weekly) of plyometric training (POST), maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) at leg extension (LE), leg curl (LC) and leg press machines (LP) and jumping performance (SJ, Squat Jump; CMJ, counter-movement-jump; DJ, drop-jump) were assessed. Furthermore, perceived effort (RPE) was rated for each set and subsequently averaged for each session. MVC at LP notably increased between PRE and POST in both STA (2335 +/- 539 vs. 2653 +/- 659N, standardized mean difference [SMD] = 0.528) and DYN (2483 +/- 714N vs. 2885 +/- 843N, SMD = 0.515). Reactive strength index of DJ showed significant differences between STA and DYN at MID (162.2 +/- 26.4 vs. 123.1 +/- 26.5 cm.s1, p = 0.002, SMD = 1.478) and POST (166.1 +/- 28.0 vs. 136.2 +/- 31.7 cm.s-1, p = 0.02, SMD = 0.997). Furthermore, there was a significant effect for RPE, with STA rating perceived effort higher than DYN (6.76 +/- 0.32 vs. 6.33 +/- 0.47 a.u., p = 0.013, SMD = 1.058). When employing a training block of high-density WB-EMS both static and dynamic exercises lead to similar adaptations.		[Rappelt, Ludwig; Micke, Florian; Held, Steffen; Doermann, Ulrike; Kleinoeder, Heinz; Donath, Lars] German Sports Univ Cologne, Dept Intervent Res Exercise Training, Cologne, Germany; [Rappelt, Ludwig] Univ Wuppertal, Dept Movement & Training Sci, Wuppertal, Germany; [Held, Steffen] IST Univ Appl Sci, Dept Sport & Management, Dusseldorf, Germany; [Rappelt, Ludwig] Dept Intervent Res Exercise Training, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000979351500001	37	Article; Article		
J	Ogul, Begum; Uslu, Serkan; Hindistan, Ibrahim Ethem; Akdag, Eren; Özdogan, Emel Cetin								The effect of the horizontal vs. vertical PAPE protocol on the swim start performance in adolescent male								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	5			1220	1235	2200745	10.1080/14763141.2023.2200745			MAY 4 2025	2025	Post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) is referred to enhancement in muscular performance due to high-intensity voluntary contractions. This study aimed to examine the effect of the horizontal vs. vertical PAPE protocol on the start performance in swimming. Sixteen swimmers (age: 13.71 +/- 0.95 years; height: 169.43 +/- 9.68 cm; body mass: 58.47 +/- 7.64 kg) performed three warm-up protocols: (i) a swim-specific warm-up (SWU); (ii) back squat (BS) followed SWU (SWUB); (iii) barbell hip thrust (BHT) followed SWU (SWUH) which consisted of 1 set of 3 reps at 80% 1RM. Rest times are evaluated individually. The findings of this study indicate that SWUB has no beneficial effect on any phase in all examined parameters, while SWUH has a slight improvement only in the take-off phase compared to SWUB (p < 0.05). BHT is better compared to BS as a PAPE stimulus for swimming, but there is no positive effect on 50 m swimming time compared to SWU (p > 0.05). In conclusion, to the best of our knowledge, the effect of BHT as a PAPE stimulus was investigated for swimming for the first time, but results show that neither BS nor BHT has a positive effect on 50 m swimming performance.		[Ogul, Begum] Akdeniz Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, Antalya, Turkiye; [Uslu, Serkan] Akdeniz Univ, Fac Med, Dept Biophys, Antalya, Turkiye; [Hindistan, Ibrahim Ethem; Özdogan, Emel Cetin] Akdeniz Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Antalya, Turkiye; [Akdag, Eren] Alanya Alaaddin Keykubat Univ, Sports Sci Fac, Coaching Training Dept, Antalya, Turkiye; [Özdogan, Emel Cetin] Akdeniz Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, Antalya, Turkiye								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000972250000001	47	Article; Article		
J	Cho, Heetae; Koh, Koon Teck; Chian, Lit Khoon								Subjective knowledge in open water activities: Scale development and validation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			723	734		10.1177/17479541231168513			APR 2024	2024	Subjective knowledge is a significant factor influencing individuals' behaviors. It plays a critical role in preventing people from tragic event during open water activities (OWAs). However, a measurement scale for subjective knowledge in OWAs has not been developed and comprehensively investigated in the field of maritime and coaching studies. Therefore, this study aimed to develop and validate a subjective knowledge scale in OWAs (SKS-OWA) to better understand participants' safety perceptions. We collected data from individuals who participated in OWAs within three years in Singapore. This study conducted the pilot study (n = 260) and the main study (n = 453) and employed a rigorous scale development procedure to assess the psychometric properties of the SKS-OWA. The findings of this study contribute to a better understanding of subjective knowledge in OWAs, and the SKS-OWA can be used to help coaches and practitioners to plan their training programs, increase public awareness, and reduce the rates of deaths from drowning.		[Cho, Heetae] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Suwon, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae; Koh, Koon Teck; Chian, Lit Khoon] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore; [Koh, Koon Teck] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore; [Koh, Koon Teck] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000972451400001	96	Article; Article		
J	Rossiter, Antonia; Comyns, Thomas M. M.; Sherwin, Ian; Nevill, Alan M. M.; Warrington, Giles D. D.								Elite athletes' and support staffs' experiences and perceptions of long-haul travel, and the self-management strategies they use								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			698	709		10.1177/17479541231170080			APR 2024	2024	Elite athletes and their support staff are often required to travel for international competitions all over the globe, however little is known about their experiences of long-haul (LH) travel and its perceived effects on performance. The aim of this study was to explore elite athletes' and support staffs' perception of symptoms experienced following LH travel and the self-management strategies they used to mitigate these symptoms. Elite athletes and support staff (n = 88), who had embarked on an LH flight (> 8 hours) in the previous 2 years for training or competition, completed a survey examining their perceptions of LH travel, symptoms experienced following the flight(s) and strategies they implemented to minimise the symptoms. Associations between symptoms experienced and travel strategies used with participant and journey characteristics were examined by Chi-squared tests. LH travel was widely perceived by participants to be disruptive to physical (86.4%) and mental performance (72.7%) and to increase the risk of illness and injury (86.4%). The most common symptoms experienced were related to fatigue and disruption to sleep. All participants implemented strategies to help mitigate the negative consequences of LH travel. Moving and stretching regularly in-flight and simple strategies for aligning the body clock to destination time were most prevalent. The study findings will allow the translation of research to better inform future guidelines that address the unique needs and priorities of elite athletes and support staff as they embark on LH travel for training and competition with a view to optimising performance outcomes.		[Rossiter, Antonia] Sport Ireland Inst, Sport Ireland Campus, Dublin D15 Y52H, Ireland; [Rossiter, Antonia; Comyns, Thomas M. M.; Sherwin, Ian; Nevill, Alan M. M.; Warrington, Giles D. D.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Rossiter, Antonia; Comyns, Thomas M. M.; Sherwin, Ian; Warrington, Giles D. D.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Nevill, Alan M. M.] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Wolverhampton, England; [Rossiter, Antonia] Sport Ireland Inst, Sport Ireland Campus, Dublin D15 Y52H, Ireland								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000974211100001	70	Article; Article		
J	Nolan, David; Horgan, Peter; MacNamara, Aine; Egan, Brendan								'<i>There</i>'<i>s</i> <i>a perfect way to do things</i>, <i>and there</i>'<i>s a real way to do things</i>': Attitudes, beliefs and practices of strength and conditioning coaches in elite international women's rugby union								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1456	1468	17479541231169371	10.1177/17479541231169371			OCT 2023	2023	Optimal physical performance is a product of specific and tailored training. There are well-established sex differences in anatomical, physiological, and performance factors between biological males and females, which may have implications for physical preparation. A potential knowledge gap exists in relation to sex-specific differences in physical preparation because practitioners largely rely upon empirical evidence collected in male subjects for reference when devising interventions for female athletes. Therefore, this study explored the attitudes, beliefs and practices of strength and conditioning coaches (n = 8; M/F, 6/2) in elite level (international) women's rugby union using semi-structured interviews (mean +/- standard deviation duration 59 +/- 15 minutes). The interviews explored differences in coaching elite female rugby players compared to males, with specific focus on training methodologies and understanding of pertinent aspects of female physiology. Reflexive thematic analysis was utilised to generate a rich qualitative dataset. Analysis resulted in the identification of higher-order themes: developmental stage of women's rugby, physical preparation, and education. Additional subthemes were created to facilitate organisation and presentation of data. The majority of coaches consider sex-specificity when devising physical preparation interventions as a function of training experience, rather than physiological between-sex differences, yet there were conflicting, and often erroneous understanding of female-specific considerations. To the authors knowledge, this is the first study to investigate attitudes, beliefs, and practices in elite level strength and conditioning coaches regarding sex-specific differences, and as such, illustrates the current understanding and opinions of practitioners in international level women's rugby union.		[Nolan, David; MacNamara, Aine; Egan, Brendan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Horgan, Peter] Gael Athlet Assoc, Dublin, Ireland; [Egan, Brendan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Glasnevin, Dublin, Ireland; [Egan, Brendan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Glasnevin, Dublin, Ireland								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000973342900001	81	Article; Article		
J	Ellis, Daniel G.; Speakman, John; Hambly, Catherine; Cockram, Alex; Morton, James P.; Close, Graeme L.; Donovan, Tim F.								Case-study: Energy expenditure of a world class male wheelchair tennis player during training, Grand Slam and British open tournaments measured by doubly labelled water								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			857	863		10.1177/17479541231169033			APR 2024	2024	The assessment of total energy expenditure (TEE) is imperative to ensure appropriate fuelling during competition and training, although the current lack of TEE research in para sport make the prescription of nutritional strategies challenging. This study aimed to assess TEE of an elite wheelchair tennis (WT) player during training and competition of the highest level. One male WT player (age 23.6 years; career high World No. 1; body mass 65.7 kg; VO(2)max, 45.3 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)) participated. Prior to the assessment, VO(2)max and maximum heart rate, resting metabolic rate, 10 m sprint speed and upper body skinfold measurements were made. Doubly labelled water assessed TEE during a 19-day period which included the Wimbledon Championships (5 days-3 matches), training (8 days) and the British Open (BO) (6 days-7 matches). Throughout data collection, the participant continued their usual training and preparation. During Wimbledon, TEE was 3118 kcal.d(-1): 60.3 kcal.kg(-1) FFM: PAL 2.0 and during BO was 3368 kcal.day(-1): 65.1 kcal.kg(-1) FFM: PAL 2.2. Mean daily activity was 124 mins and 132 mins, respectively. During training, TEE was 3177kcal.day-1: 61.4kcal.kg-1 FFM: PAL 2.0: mean daily activity was 138 mins. These findings show the TEE of an elite WT player captured during a period of training and high-level competition, alongside data outlining the physiological profile of a world-class para-athlete.		[Ellis, Daniel G.; Morton, James P.; Close, Graeme L.; Donovan, Tim F.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Ellis, Daniel G.; Cockram, Alex] Lawn Tennis Assoc, London, England; [Speakman, John; Hambly, Catherine] Univ Aberdeen, Sch Biol Sci, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Ellis, Daniel G.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Tom Reilly Bldg,Byrom St Campus, Liverpool L3 3AF, England; [Ellis, Daniel G.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Tom Reilly Bldg,Byrom St Campus, Liverpool L3 3AF, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000973322100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Cosgrave, Ciaran; Fuller, Colm; Kung, Stacey; Cosgrave, Matthew; McFadden, Ciaran; Franklyn-Miller, Andy								A comparison of clinical assessment with common diagnostic tools for monitoring concussion recovery in adolescent rugby union players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				165	171		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.04.003			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: To characterise the incidence, severity and recovery of sport-related concussion (SRC) in schoolboy rugby players and explore whether the Sports Concussion Assessment Tool (SCAT), Cogstate Brief Battery (CBB) and the King-Devick test (K-D test) can be used to monitor concussion status through to full recovery. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Rugby union has a high rate of SRC; however, there is little research investigating how concussion affects adolescent rugby players. Participants: Schoolboy rugby players. Main outcome measures: Participants completed baseline tests in the preseason. Participants diagnosed with SRC during the season attended for post-concussion testing on a weekly basis until recovered. Results: 135 schoolboy rugby players (16.7 +/- 0.82y) participated in the study. There were 18 SRCs in 16 participants. Concussion incidence was 9/1000 player hours. CBB and K-D tests were poorly associated with clinical assessment and produced high false negative rates (0.58 and 0.52 respectively). Conclusions: This study reports a relatively high match SRC incidence for an adolescent population. Analysis of clinical recovery with CBB and K-D test revealed a relatively poor ability to accurately monitor concussion status compared to clinical assessment suggesting that these tools should not be used in isolation for monitoring SRC recovery in adolescents.		[Cosgrave, Ciaran; Fuller, Colm; Kung, Stacey; Cosgrave, Matthew; McFadden, Ciaran; Franklyn-Miller, Andy] Sports Surg Clin, Dublin 9, Ireland; [Cosgrave, Ciaran] Sports Surg Clin, Dublin 9, Ireland								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:001030475700001	41	Article; Article		
J	Djurtoft, Chris; Yona, Tomer; Roos, Ewa Maria; Thorborg, Kristian; Holmich, Per; Rasmussen, Sten; Olesen, Jens Lykkegaard; Rathleff, Michael Skovdal								Quality of life in adolescents with longstanding non-traumatic knee pain: An analysis of 316 adolescents with Patellofemoral Pain and Osgood-Schlatter Disease								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				156	164		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.04.001			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: To describe the Quality of Life (QoL) among adolescents with Patellofemoral Pain (PFP) and Osgood-Schlatter Disease (OSD) and investigate characteristics associated with QoL. Study design: Cross-sectional. Participants: 316 adolescents with PFP or OSD. Main outcome measures: QoL subscale of The Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) and the EuroQol 5-dimensions (EQ-5D). Results: The KOOS-QoL was 51 +/- 18, and the total index score for the EQ5D was 0.67 +/- 0.21. KOOS-QoL subscale showed that 60% reported being aware of their knee problems daily or constantly, 38% reported severe to extreme lack of confidence in their knees, 28% reported severe to extreme difficulty with their knees, and 20% reported severely or totally modifying their lifestyle to avoid potentially damaging activities to their knee. EQ-5D showed that 79% experienced problems with everyday activities, 48% reported mobility problems, 17% felt worried, sad, or unhappy, and 7% reported problems looking after themselves. Conclusions: Many adolescents with longstanding non-traumatic knee pain experience low QoL. More than half were aware of their knee problems at least daily, one in three reported a severe lack of confidence in their knee, and one in six felt worried, sad, or unhappy. (c) 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Djurtoft, Chris; Olesen, Jens Lykkegaard; Rathleff, Michael Skovdal] Aalborg Univ, Ctr Gen Practice, Fyrkildevej 7, DK-9220 Aalborg, Denmark; [Djurtoft, Chris; Rathleff, Michael Skovdal] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Aalborg, Denmark; [Yona, Tomer] Israel Inst Technol, Dept Biomed Engn, Technion, Hefa, Israel; [Roos, Ewa Maria] Univ Southern Denmark, Inst Sport Sci & Clin Biomech, Ctr Muscle & Joint Hlth, Res Unit Musculoskeletal Funct & Physiotherapy, Odense, Denmark; [Thorborg, Kristian; Holmich, Per] Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Hvidovre, Denmark; [Thorborg, Kristian] Phys Med & Rehabil Res Copenhagen PMR C, Hvidovre, Denmark; [Holmich, Per] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Hvidovre, Denmark; [Holmich, Per] Univ Copenhagen, Dept Clin Med, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Rasmussen, Sten; Olesen, Jens Lykkegaard] Aalborg Univ, Dept Clin Med, Aalborg, Denmark; [Rasmussen, Sten] Aalborg Univ Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Aalborg, Denmark; [Rathleff, Michael Skovdal] Aalborg Univ Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Aalborg, Denmark; [Djurtoft, Chris] Aalborg Univ, Ctr Gen Practice, Fyrkildevej 7, DK-9220 Aalborg, Denmark								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000983535700001	49	Article; Article		
J	Meyer, Courtney M.; Mensch, James; Battle, Nicole; Yeargin, Susan W.								Knowledge and Attitudes of Concussion Reporting Behavior Intentions in Parents of Youth Recreational Football Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			218	226		10.1080/02701367.2023.2189444			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study: (1) Described the knowledge, attitudes, and reported behavior intentions of young recreational football players' parents toward concussion. (2) Investigated associations of the previous variables with parent demographics. Materials and Methods: A cross-sectional design utilized an online platform to survey parents of children (8-14 yrs.) in three youth football leagues in the southern United States. Demographics collected included items such as sex or concussion history. Knowledge was assessed via true/false items, with higher scores (0-20) representing greater concussion understanding. 4-point Likert scales were used to describe parents attitudes (1 = not at all, 4 = very much), confidence in intended recognition/reporting (1 = not-confident, 4 = extremely confident), and agreement with intended reporting behaviors (1 = strong- disagreement, 4 = strong-agreement). Descriptive statistics were calculated for demographics. Mann-Whitney U test or Kruskal-Wallis Tests examined survey responses across demographics. Results: Respondents (n = 101) were primarily female (64.4%), white (81.2%), and participated in contact sport (83.2%). Parents averaged 15.9 +/- 1.4 on concussion knowledge, with only 34.7% (n = 35) of parents scoring > 17/20. Statements that received the lowest average agreement (3.29/4) regarding reporting intent were related to emotional symptoms. Some parents (n = 42, 41.6%) reported low confidence in recognizing symptoms of a concussion in their child. Parent demographics did not have clinically significant associations with survey responses, with 6/7 demographic variables resulting in no statistical significance (p > .05). Conclusions: Although one-third of parents attained high knowledge scores, several reported low confidence in recognizing concussion symptoms in their children. Parents scored lower in agreement with removing their child from play when concussion symptoms were subjective. Youth sports organizations providing concussion education to parents should consider these results when revising their materials.		[Meyer, Courtney M.; Mensch, James; Battle, Nicole; Yeargin, Susan W.] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Meyer, Courtney M.] Univ South Carolina, Arnold Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Exercises Sci, 1300 Wheat St, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Battle, Nicole] Prisma Hosp, Prisma Orthoped, Columbia, SC USA; [Meyer, Courtney M.] Univ South Carolina, Arnold Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Exercises Sci, 1300 Wheat St, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000969428300001	49	Article; Article		
J	Downward, Paul; Webb, Tom; Dawson, Peter								Referee Abuse, Intention to Quit, and Well-Being								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			207	217		10.1080/02701367.2023.2184459			JAN 2 2024	2024	There are growing levels of abuse toward match officials in sport as well as general problems of their recruitment and retention. Purpose: This study analyzes the role that physical and nonphysical abuse has on association football referees' intentions to quit and their personal well-being. Methods: Drawing on pooled survey data of association football referees from the UK and Canada, this paper employs probit, ordinary least squares, and treatment effects regression analyses to explore the casual relationship between the physical and nonphysical abuse faced by referees, their intention to quit and their well-being. Results: Although physical abuse is less common than nonphysical abuse both affect the intention to quit and well-being of officials. Moreover, those that do not contemplate quitting also face reductions in their well-being. Conclusion: The research recommends a zero-tolerance approach to all forms of abuse of officials in sport and identifies that organizations have a duty of care for the well-being of their officials.		[Downward, Paul] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, England; [Webb, Tom] Univ Portsmouth, Portsmouth, England; [Dawson, Peter] Univ East Anglia, Norwich, England; [Webb, Tom] Univ Portsmouth, Sch Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Portsmouth PO1, Hampshire, England; [Webb, Tom] Univ Portsmouth, Sch Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Portsmouth PO1, Hampshire, England								30							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000969286100001	101	Article; Article		
J	Pernigoni, Marco; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio; Lukonaitiene, Inga; Tessitore, Antonio; Stanislovaitiene, Jurate; Kamarauskas, Paulius; Conte, Daniele								Comparative Effectiveness of Active Recovery and Static Stretching During Post-Exercise Recovery in Elite Youth Basketball								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			272	280		10.1080/02701367.2023.2195457			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: To compare the effectiveness of active recovery (AR) versus static stretching (SS) during post-exercise recovery in basketball. Methods: Using a counterbalanced crossover design, 17 elite youth male players completed two 90-min training sessions, followed by either AR or SS. Differences in jump height (CMJ), heart rate variability (Ln-rMSSD), muscle soreness (VAS), perceived recovery (TQR) and hormonal biomarkers (cortisol, testosterone, testosterone:cortisol ratio) between interventions were assessed at pre-session, post-session (except hormonal biomarkers), post-recovery and 24 h post-session. Differences in Ln-rMSSD were additionally assessed upon awakening on training day, and the following morning. Results: No significant differences were found between interventions at corresponding time points (p > .05). However, the within-intervention time course of recovery differed, as CMJ values were lower at post-recovery, compared with all other time points, in SS only (p < .05, effect size [ES] moderate-to-very large). Additionally, Ln-rMSSD values failed to return to baseline at post-recovery in AR only (p < .05, ES large-to-very large). Similarly, TQR scores were impaired at post-session and post-recovery in AR only (p < .05, ES moderate-to-large). No differences were reported for the remaining variables (p > .05). Conclusion: Differences between AR and SS were probably due to short-term phenomena, indicating that neither strategy was likely superior for improving recovery in the longer term. Overall, neither strategy seemed to significantly improve post-exercise recovery.		[Pernigoni, Marco; Lukonaitiene, Inga; Stanislovaitiene, Jurate; Kamarauskas, Paulius; Conte, Daniele] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Leioa, Spain; [Tessitore, Antonio] Univ Rome Foro Italico, Rome, Italy; [Pernigoni, Marco] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Dept Coaching Sci, Sporto G 6, LT-44221 Kaunas, Lithuania								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000969446400001	51	Article; Article		
J	Buening, Christian; Steinberg, Claudia; Lausberg, Hedda								Impact of Diversification on Movement Self-Perception and Movement Performance in University Sports Students								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			197	206		10.1080/02701367.2023.2174489			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: It has been acknowledged that accurate movement self-perception is a crucial prerequisite for reaching high levels of movement expertise in sports. The influence of distinct educational environments (specialization vs. diversification) on movement self-perception has thus far, however, mainly been tested in short-term investigations.Method: Therefore, a longitudinal study spanning two-and-a-half years was conducted with sports students from two conceptually different sports study programs. A total of 72 sports students from a convergent-oriented program (COSP, n = 38) and a diversification-oriented study program (DOSP, n = 34) participated in the standardized BAST (R) movement analysis at the beginning and end of their studies.Results: While, at the end of their sports studies, COSP showed no significant changes in movement self-perception, DOSP students' movement self-perception increased significantly in five out of eight movement tasks of the BAST (R). DOSP students, furthermore, developed a strong relationship between movement self-perception and movement performance at the end of their sports studies.Conclusion: Sports students benefit from engaging in a broad variety of different sports, allowing them to develop an accurate movement self-perception in relation to their movement performance. The influences of divergent learning experiences and diversification on movement self-perception, as well as, practical implications for the development of process-oriented learning environments that promote students' movement performance by refining movement habits or adapting new movement patterns, were discussed.		[Buening, Christian; Steinberg, Claudia; Lausberg, Hedda] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Buening, Christian] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Dance & Movement Culture, Sportpk Muengersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000968772000001	35	Article; Article		
J	Xu, Maowei; Li, Bo; Scott, Olan K. M.; Wang, Jerred Junqi								New platform and new excitement? Exploring young educated sport customers' perceptions of watching live sports on OTT services								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			682	699		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2022-0140			OCT 11 2023	2023	Purpose - This study aims to investigate how sports customers adopted over-the-top (OTT) services to consume sport content. Inspired by the technology acceptance model (TAM), the study aims to understand users' behavior when consuming sporting events and users' perceptions toward OTT services. Design/methodology/approach - The participants of the study are Chinese sports consumers that use streaming services to watch live sport content. An online survey was distributed through HUPU Sports, a Chinese online communication community where sports fans can share opinions. To make sure all responses qualified to take part in the study, skip logic questions were added at the beginning of the questionnaire to ask participants to answer whether they used streaming services for watching sports. Atotal of 352 responses were received and there were 327 useable questionnaires. Findings - The results revealed that viewing convenience, free of commercials and viewing quality were the main reasons impacting them to adopt OTT services. In terms of users' perceptions, paid users rated higher in perceived enjoyment, perceived value, perceived usefulness (PU) and ease of use than nonpaid users. OTT users' fandom and PU could predict the time the users spent on using these services, while the users' fandom and perceived value are positively related to the money users spent on these services. In addition, this study also found that users' fandom, perceived value, content quality, and ease of use are positively associated with users' intention to continue to use the service. Originality/value - The study is one of the first attempts to explore how sports audiences adopted OTT services to consume sport content and explore the audiences' perceptions toward OTT usage. Previous studies have already investigated how users adopted music streaming services (Fernandes and Guerra, 2019) and other online streaming services (Shin and Park, 2021), but little attention has been given to sports streaming services specifically. Therefore, the findings of the study fill the gap in the extant knowledge of sport consumers' behavior and provide more insights to their online behaviors. Moreover, the authors also contribute to the growing digital media literature by advancing our understanding perceptional differences between paid users and unpaid users. The streaming services literature has primarily focused on general users (Fernandes and Guerra, 2019), but the services neglect to understand the differences in between paid and unpaid users.		[Xu, Maowei] Wuhan Sports Univ, Coll Econ & Management, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Li, Bo; Wang, Jerred Junqi] Miami Univ, Dept Sport Leadership & Management, Oxford, OH 45056 USA; [Scott, Olan K. M.] Brock Univ, Dept Sport Management, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Li, Bo] Miami Univ, Dept Sport Leadership & Management, Oxford, OH 45056 USA								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000967927300001	65	Article; Article		
J	Bizzini, Mario; Schaub, Gianluca; Ferrari, Enea; Monn, Samara; Leunig, Michael; Casartelli, Nicola C.; Maffiuletti, Nicola A.								Hip muscle strength in male and female patients with femoroacetabular impingement syndrome: Comparison to healthy controls and athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				142	148		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.03.010			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: To examine hip muscle strength deficits in patients with femoroacetabular impingent syn-drome (FAIS), with special emphasis on potential sex-and comparison-related (between-subject vs within-subject) differences.Design: Cross-sectional comparative study.Participants: Forty FAIS patients (20 women), 40 healthy controls (20 women) and 40 athletes (20 women).Main outcome measures: Hip abduction, adduction and fiexion isometric strength was tested using a commercially-available dynamometer. Two between-subject comparisons (FAIS patients vs controls and FAIS patients vs athletes) and one within-subject comparison (inter-limb asymmetry) of strength deficits were conducted, based on the calculation of respective percent differences.Results: For all hip muscle groups, women were 14-18% weaker than men (p < 0.001), but no sex-related interactions were observed. For all hip muscle groups, FAIS patients were 16-19% weaker than controls (p = 0.001) and 24-30% weaker than athletes (p < 0.001). For FAIS patients, the involved hip abductors were 8.5% weaker than the uninvolved ones (p = 0.015), while no inter-limb asymmetry was observed for the other hip muscles.Conclusion: Sex had no infiuence on hip muscle strength deficits in FAIS patients while a major impact of comparison method/group was observed. Hip abductors showed consistent deficits for all comparison methods, suggestive of a possible greater impairment compared to hip fiexors and adductors.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bizzini, Mario; Schaub, Gianluca; Ferrari, Enea; Monn, Samara; Casartelli, Nicola C.; Maffiuletti, Nicola A.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland; [Leunig, Michael] Schulthess Clin, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Zurich, Switzerland; [Casartelli, Nicola C.] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Lab Exercise & Hlth, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland; [Maffiuletti, Nicola A.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000982309900001	33	Article; Article		
J	Escudero-Tena, Adrian; Ibanez, Sergio J.; Vaquer Castillo, Antonio; Javier Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino; Ramon-Llin, Jesus; Munoz, Diego								Analysis of the return in professional men's and women's padel								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1375	1383		10.1177/17479541231167752			JUN 2024	2024	The goal of this research was to analyze how situational variables such as the tactical position and the direction of the serve, the return's direction, and the score affect the vertical trajectory (VT) of the return (straight or lob) in men's and women's professional padel. For this, a sample of 2752 points (1431 men and 1321 women) corresponding to 69 matches played in the 2021 season of the World Padel Tour circuit was used. The VT of the return (straight or lob), to which player it was oriented, how important the point was attending to the score, the tactical position of the serving players, and the direction of the serve by systematic observation were recorded. The results showed that situational variables had a significant influence on the type of vertical return trajectory. Men performed a significantly higher percentage of straight returns (three out of four returns) when returning to the player at serve, or at a nonkey moment, or Australian position, or when the serve was to the body or to the side wall. In contrast, women returned a significantly higher percentage of lob returns (three out of four returns) to the server's partner, or in golden point situations, or in serves to the "T" and to the body, regardless of the tactical position at serve. The return had not been analyzed considering the score, observing changes in the golden points. These results have a great impact both on carrying out specific return training and on improving pair's anticipation to serve in different return situations.		[Escudero-Tena, Adrian; Ibanez, Sergio J.; Munoz, Diego] Univ Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain; [Vaquer Castillo, Antonio; Javier Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino] Univ Murcia, Murcia, Spain; [Ramon-Llin, Jesus] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Ramon-Llin, Jesus] Univ Valencia, Teaching Phys Educ Artist & Mus, Ave Taronger 4, Valencia, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000969057000001	46	Article; Article		
J	Langan-Evans, Carl; Hearris, Mark A.; McQuilliam, Stephen; Burke, Louise M.; Stellingwerff, Trent; Elliott-Sale, Kirsty J.; Morton, James P.								Hormonal contraceptive use, menstrual cycle characteristics and training/nutrition related profiles of elite, sub-elite and amateur athletes and exercisers: One size is unlikely to fit all								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			113	128		10.1177/17479541231163088			FEB 2024	2024	The aim of the present study was to simultaneously audit hormonal contraceptive (HC) use, menstrual cycle characteristics and training/nutrition related profiles in pre-menopausal women from varying athletic and exercise backgrounds. Elite (n = 51), sub-elite (n = 118) and amateur (n = 392) female athletes and exercisers were examined via an anonymous quantitative/qualitative survey tool. All analyses for ratio data were conducted utilising one- and two-way ANOVA/ANCOVA and odds ratio models, with ordinal data analysed via Pearson's Chi-squared tests. HC use was similar across elite, sub-elite and amateurs (34-44%). Menstrual cycle length was not different (P = 0.08) between competitive levels (28 +/- 13 days), but 66% of respondents reported cycle variability (10 +/- 11 days). Training profiles were not different based on contraceptive status (P > 0.05) yet were across competitive groups (P < 0.05). Daily meal/snack intakes were not different between contraceptive status (P > 0.05), though elite and sub-elite groups reported a higher daily meal consumption compared to amateurs (P < 0.01). Forty percent of all respondents skipped meals, attributed to lack of time, schedule and alterations in appetite, with reported changes in taste preferences during pre-menses (14-35%) and menses (15-25%) towards sweet foods (60%), with cravings for chocolate and other confectionary (25%). Prevalence of dietary supplement use was not influenced by contraceptive status (P = 0.31), though elites (76%) reported higher use (P = 0.04) than amateurs (63%). Data demonstrates that in female athletes and exercisers, competitive level appears to affect simple markers of training and nutrition practice, yet contraceptive status does not.		[Langan-Evans, Carl; Hearris, Mark A.; McQuilliam, Stephen; Morton, James P.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Tom Reilly Bldg, Liverpool, England; [Burke, Louise M.] Australian Catholic Univ, Mary MacKillop Inst forHealth Res, Exercise & Nutr Res Program, Melbourne, Australia; [Stellingwerff, Trent] Univ Victoria, Exercise Sci Phys & Hlth Educ, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Stellingwerff, Trent] Canadian Sport Inst Pacific, Pacific Inst Sport Excellence, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Elliott-Sale, Kirsty J.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Manchester, England; [Langan-Evans, Carl] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Tom Reilly Bldg, Liverpool, England								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000969327200001	48	Article; Article		
J	de Dios Benitez-Sillero, Juan; Portela-Pino, Iago; Morente, Alvaro; Raya-Gonzalez, Javier								Longitudinal Relationships Between Physical Fitness With Physical Self-Concept and Self-Esteem in Adolescents								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			183	189		10.1080/02701367.2023.2173134			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Physical fitness has shown to be positively related with young people's general mental health, mainly due to the changes in body composition derived from a regular sportive practice. Thus, the aim of this study was three-fold: 1) to analyze the relationship between physical fitness with the mental health status assessed as physical self-concept and self-esteem, 2) to study whether self-esteem offers longitudinal relationships with physical fitness three months after the first assessment, and 3) to know the most implicated variables of physical fitness in mental health variables. Method: A total of 1441 adolescents aged 12 to 19 years (mean=14.52; standard deviation=1.96 years), being the 49.5 % of them girls, from 4 high schools in Andalusia, Spain, participated in the study. The EUROFIT battery test was administered to the participants, as well as some questionaries to assess the physical self-concept and the self-steem. Physical tests and self-concept were assessed in an only temporal point, while self-esteem was analyzed longitudinally. Results: The results obtained indicated that physical self-concept was related to physical fitness, while self-esteem was especially related to the Course Navette test. Conclusions: These results suggest that having great levels of physical fitness, especially related to aerobic endurance, may help to have higher levels of physical self-concept and self-esteem as components of mental health in Spanish adolescents.		[de Dios Benitez-Sillero, Juan; Morente, Alvaro] Univ Cordoba, Cordoba, Spain; [de Dios Benitez-Sillero, Juan] Lab Studies Coexistence & Prevent Violence, Cordoba, Spain; [Portela-Pino, Iago; Raya-Gonzalez, Javier] Univ Isabel I, Burgos, Spain; [Portela-Pino, Iago] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Fernan Gonzalez 76, Burgos, Spain; [Portela-Pino, Iago] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Fernan Gonzalez 76, Burgos, Spain								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000967048100001	64	Article; Article		
J	Jung, Juho; Fajardo, Jhosedyn Carolaym Salazar; Kim, Seongkuk; Kim, Byeongsu; Oh, Sejun; Yoon, BumChul								Effect of tDCS Combined With Physical Training on Physical Performance in a Healthy Population								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			149	156		10.1080/02701367.2023.2166894			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: The effectiveness of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) combined with physical training has shown inconsistent results through research. Hence, a study utilizing a long-term tDCS application over the primary motor cortex and a large sample size is required to determine whether tDCS combined with physical training can increase physical performance (muscular strength, endurance, and explosive strength) in healthy adults. Material and methods: Fifty-six healthy adults were randomly distributed into two groups: active (active tDCS+ physical training) and sham (sham tDCS + physical training) and received the intervention three times per week for six weeks. Muscle strength was assessed using maximal isometric muscle strength (MIMS) by a digital dynamometer. Muscular endurance and lower limb explosive strength were assessed by using muscle fitness testing (MFT), and the Sargent jump test. Results: The active and sham groups exhibited significant improvement in all measured parameters in intragroup analyses. However, intergroup analyses revealed no significant difference between the groups. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that only physical training improved MIMS in the upper and lower extremities, MFT endurance scores, and lower limb explosive power. Thus, tDCS failed to demonstrate its effectiveness in a healthy population according to the protocol used in this study.		[Jung, Juho; Fajardo, Jhosedyn Carolaym Salazar; Kim, Seongkuk; Kim, Byeongsu; Oh, Sejun; Yoon, BumChul] Korea Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Yoon, BumChul] Korea Univ, Coll Hlth Sci, Major Rehabil Sci, Hana Sci Hall, Anam dong 5 ga, Seoul 136703, South Korea; [Yoon, BumChul] Korea Univ, Coll Hlth Sci, Major Rehabil Sci, Hana Sci Hall, Anam dong 5 ga, Seoul 136703, South Korea								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000968092200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Aune, M. A.; Roaas, T. V.; Loras, H. W.; Nynes, A.; Aune, T. K.								Bilateral Force Deficit in Proximal Effectors Versus Distal Effectors in Lower Extremities								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			140	148		10.1080/02701367.2023.2166893			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Bilateral force deficit occurs when the maximal generated force during simultaneous bilateral muscle contractions is lower than the sum of forces generated unilaterally. Neural inhibition is stated as the main source for bilateral force deficit. Based on differences in bilateral neural organization, there might be a pronounced neural inhibition for proximal compared to distal effectors. The aim of the present experiment was to evaluate potential differences in bilateral force deficit in proximal compared to distal effectors in lower extremities. Methods: Fifteen young adults performed single-joint maximal voluntary contractions in isometric dorsiflexion of ankle (distal) and knee (proximal) extension unilaterally and bilaterally. Results: Results showed a significant absolute bilateral force deficit for both proximal (123.46 +/- 59.51 N) and distal effectors (33.00 +/- 35.60 N). Interestingly, the relative bilateral force deficit for knee extension was significantly larger compared to dorsiflexion of ankle, 19.98 +/- 10.04% and 10.27 +/- 9.57%, respectively. Our results indicate a significantly higher bilateral force deficit for proximal effectors compared to distal effectors. Conclusion: Plausible explanations are related to neuroanatomical and neurophysiological differences between proximal effectors and distal effectors where proximal muscles have a higher potential for bilateral communication compared to distal muscles. In addition, higher forces produced with proximal effectors could cause a higher perceived exertion and cause a more pronounced bilateral force deficit to proximal effectors.		[Aune, M. A.; Roaas, T. V.; Nynes, A.; Aune, T. K.] Nord Univ, Rostad, Levanger, Norway; [Loras, H. W.] NTNU Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Trondheim, Norway; [Aune, T. K.] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Sport & Human Movement Sci Res Grp SaHMS, N-7600 Rostad, Levanger, Norway; [Aune, T. K.] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Sport & Human Movement Sci Res Grp SaHMS, N-7600 Rostad, Levanger, Norway								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000968349700001	57	Article; Article		
J	Letton, Meg E. E.; Macdonald, Eliza R. R.; Thom, Jeanette M. M.; Ward, Rachel E. E.								Classical Ballet for Women Aged Over 50 Years: Investigating Balance, Strength, and Range of Motion								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			171	182		10.1080/02701367.2023.2169236			JAN 2 2024	2024	Background: Regular exercise can mitigate the loss of strength, balance, and flexibility that contribute to age-related decline in physical function and mobility. However, traditional exercise interventions often report poor adherence rates. There is growing interest in classical ballet as an enjoyable exercise modality for adults in middle to late age. Classical ballet requires muscular strength, coordination, and flexibility. The current study investigated a classical ballet intervention on the balance, physical function, and range of motion of women aged over 50 years. Methods: Twenty-two healthy female participants (aged 56.2 (4.5) years (mean (SD)) completed a 10-week ballet intervention. Results: This single-arm study showed significant improvements (p<.05) in lower limb strength (measured by 5 times sit-to-stand and forward leap) and high adherence rates (95% adherence for participants who completed the intervention). No adverse events were reported. Improvements in balance were reported in the left leg only (as measured by center of pressure ellipse area in the parallel retire condition). Conclusions: These results allude to the positive effects of ballet training on strength and balance in adults aged 50 years and over. High adherence rates suggest that ballet training was enjoyed and may thus be a long-term exercise modality for this population. Although this study was a single-arm design, it suggests promising results for future research wishing to evaluate the effectiveness of classical ballet training using randomized controlled trial designs.		[Letton, Meg E. E.; Macdonald, Eliza R. R.; Thom, Jeanette M. M.; Ward, Rachel E. E.] Univ New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Thom, Jeanette M. M.] Neurosci Res Australia NeuRA, Randwick, NSW, Australia; [Ward, Rachel E. E.] UNSW, Fac Med & Hlth, Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia; [Ward, Rachel E. E.] UNSW, Fac Med & Hlth, Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000968764500001	56	Article; Article		
J	Raedeke, Thomas D.; Hayes, Megan								Feasibility of Project Mentor: A Mentoring Program Based on Self-Determination Theory for Adolescents Classified as Overweight								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			157	170		10.1080/02701367.2023.2167912			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: This study examined the feasibility of Project Mentor, a mentoring program based on self-determination theory (SDT) for youth classified as overweight or obese. Methods: In Study 1, youth (N = 23) ranging from 12-18 years of age were randomly assigned to a mentoring intervention or wait-list control condition. Study 2 served as a replication sample and consisted of N = 38 youth who participated in the mentoring program. As part of a process evaluation, attendance and exercise heart rate were monitored to assess whether participants exercised at a moderate-to-vigorous level as intended. Mentees also rated whether mentors created a need-supportive environment. For outcome evaluation, basic need satisfaction, behavioral regulation, fitness, and body composition were assessed at pre, post, and follow-up. Results: Across both studies, participants attended over 80% of the exercise sessions and exercised at a moderate to vigorous intensity level. Mentees also perceived that mentors created a need-supportive environment. Post-test and follow-up basic need scores were higher than baseline values and autonomous motivation increased for mentoring program participants. Effect sizes were generally moderate to large in magnitude based on partial eta-squared and Cohen d. Aerobic fitness (i.e., Vo2peak) showed a moderate to large increase at post-test that was partially maintained at follow-up. Body composition changes were nonsignificant and small in magnitude. Participants in the wait-list control reported showed small changes or decreases across SDT related constructs, fitness, and body composition across both studies. Conclusions: Results across both studies support the feasibility of a mentoring program focused on CARE (competence, autonomy, relatedness, and enjoyment).		[Raedeke, Thomas D.; Hayes, Megan] East Carolina Univ, Greenville, NC USA; [Raedeke, Thomas D.] East Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 175 Mines Coliseum, Greenville, NC 27858 USA; [Raedeke, Thomas D.] East Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 175 Mines Coliseum, Greenville, NC 27858 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000968397700001	55	Article; Article		
J	Sun, Depeng; Yang, Tieli								Semi-Squat Exercises with Varying Levels of Arterial Occlusion Pressure during Blood Flow Restriction Training Induce a Post-Activation Performance Enhancement and Improve Vertical Height Jump in Female Football Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			212	225		10.52082/jssm.2023.212			JUN 2023	2023	Low-load blood flow restriction training (BFRT) has been shown to induce a significant increase in muscle activation. However, low-load BFRT to augment the post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) has not been previously examined. This study aimed to examine the PAPE of low-intensity semi-squat exercises with varying pressure BFRT on vertical height jump performance. Twelve elite athletes from the Shaanxi Province women's football team volunteered to participate in this study for 4 weeks. Participants completed four testing sessions that included one of the following at random: (1) non-BFRT, (2) 50% arterial occlusion pressure (AOP), (3) 60% AOP, or (4) 70% AOP. Muscle activity of the lower thigh muscles was recorded using electromyography (EMG). Jump height, peak power output (PPO), vertical ground reaction forces (vGRF), and rate of force development (RFD) were recorded for four trials. Two-factor repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) showed that semi-squat with varying pressure BFRT had a significant impact on the measured muscle EMG amplitude and MF value of vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, rectus femoris, and biceps femoris (P < 0.05), and MF value decreased with increasing pressure. Muscle activation (EMG amplitude) did not change further. The EMG amplitude of the gluteus maximus was significantly decreased by semi-squat training with different pressures (P < 0.05), while that of the gluteus maximus muscle was gradually increased by non-BFR with semi-squat training (P > 0.05). The 50% and 60% AOP BFRTs significantly increased jump height, peak power, and force increase rate (RFD) after 5 min and 10 min of rest (P < 0.05). This study further confirmed that low-intensity BFRT can significantly increase lower limb muscle activation, induce PAPE, and improve vertical height jump in female footballers. In addition, 50% AOP continuous BFRT is recommended for warm-up activities.		[Sun, Depeng; Yang, Tieli] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Grad Dept, Beijing 100191, Peoples R China; [Sun, Depeng] Xian Univ Finance & Econ, Dept PE, Xian 710100, Peoples R China; [Sun, Depeng] Capital Univ Phys Educ & Sports, Grad Dept, Beijing 100191, Peoples R China								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000968688600001	67	Article; Article		
J	Hasegawa, Morgan E.; Obana, Kyle K.; Ishikawa, Kyle M.; Tamate, Trent M.; Chang, Shaun B.; Crawford, Scott. N.								Increasing trend in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu injuries presenting to US emergency departments - a 10-year analysis and injury profile								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	2			167	174		10.1080/00913847.2023.2197898			MAR 3 2024	2024	ObjectiveEvaluate injury trends in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu (BJJ) participation by presenting to U.S. emergency departments over a 10-year period and formulate an injury profile.MethodsThe U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission's (CPSC) National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database was queried for martial arts related injuries from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2021. Codes and narratives were examined to compile data for patients sustaining BJJ-related injuries.ResultsFrom 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2021 there were 7,722 (NE = 282,315) ED-diagnosed martial arts related injuries with 911 (NE = 36,023) BJJ-related injuries identified. Regression analysis demonstrated an increasing trend in the annual incidence of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu injuries presenting to the ED (R2 = 0.934; SE = 2.069: p < .0001). Average age was 25.68 years of age (range 4-83). The most common injury diagnoses were sprains/strains and other/not listed at 27.68% and 26.39%. The most commonly injured body parts were the upper trunk, and the shoulder comprising 13.66% and 12.14% of injured body parts, respectively. The most commonly fractured region was toes, at 14.15% of all fractures. The most common dislocations occurred at the shoulder and knee, at 32.49% and 28.45% of dislocations, respectively. The most common mechanisms of injury specifically identified were indeterminate contact between players, fall onto ground, or fall onto another player comprising 18.62% and 17.17%, of injuries, respectively.ConclusionThere was an increasing trend of BJJ-related injuries presenting to U.S. Emergency Departments. The most common diagnoses and body parts injured were sprains/strains and upper trunk and shoulder, respectively. The most commonly fractured and dislocated regions were toes and shoulder, respectively. The most common mechanisms of injury were indeterminate contact or falling. This study provides novel information concerning trends in injury and injury profiles for Brazilian Jiu Jitsu related injuries.		[Hasegawa, Morgan E.; Tamate, Trent M.; Crawford, Scott. N.] Univ Hawaii, Dept Surg, Div Orthopaed, Honolulu, HI USA; [Obana, Kyle K.] Univ Hawaii, John A Burns Sch Med, Honolulu, HI USA; [Ishikawa, Kyle M.] Univ Hawaii, John A Burns Sch Med Dept Quantitat Hlth Sci, Honolulu, HI USA; [Chang, Shaun B.] Univ Washington, Dept Orthopaed, Seattle, WA USA; [Crawford, Scott. N.] Hawaii Pacific Hlth, Straub Med Ctr, Bone & Joint Ctr, Dept Orthopaed, Honolulu, HI USA; [Hasegawa, Morgan E.] Univ Hawaii, Div Orthopaed, 1356 Lusitana St,6th Floor, Honolulu, HI 96813 USA; [Hasegawa, Morgan E.] Univ Hawaii, Div Orthopaed, 1356 Lusitana St,6th Floor, Honolulu, HI 96813 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000962673300001	19	Article; Article		
J	de Fontenay, Benoit Pairot; Roy, Jean-Sebastien; Plemmons, Marin; Willy, Richard								Knee joint underloading does not evolve after a two-week reintroduction to running program after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				122	128		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.03.003			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: Knee underloading patterns have been reported mid-and long-term after return to running post-ACLR, but changes in these patterns during the reintroduction to running are unknown. We eval-uated knee biomechanics in individuals within 6 months of ACL-R at the start and completion of a reintroduction to running program.Design: Longitudinal laboratory study.Setting: Three-dimensional running biomechanics during instrumented treadmill running.Participants: 24 participants post-ACL-R with hamstring autograft and 24 healthy, matched controls. Main outcome measures: Tibiofemoral joint (TFJ) and patellofemoral joint (PFJ) contact forces, peak knee extension moment and peak knee flexion angle. Results: Significant LIMB*GROUP interactions (all p < 0.05) but no TIME effects were found. PFJ and TFJ contact forces, peak knee flexion angle and peak knee extensor moment were lower (all p < 0.001) on the injured-limb compared to both contralateral-limb and CONTROL. PFJ and TFJ contact forces and peak knee flexion, knee extension moment were greater (all p < 0.01) on the contralateral-limb of ACL-R compared to CONTROL. There was no change in knee biomechanics after two weeks of the reintro-duction to running. Conclusions: Clinicians should be aware that substantial and persistent knee underloading does not resolve upon reintroduction to running after ACL-R. Level of evidence: Longitudinal observational study, level III.(c) 2023 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[de Fontenay, Benoit Pairot] Univ Lyon, UJM, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Sci LIBM EA 7424, Lyon, France; [de Fontenay, Benoit Pairot] Ramsay Sante, Clin Sauvegarde, Lyon, France; [Roy, Jean-Sebastien] Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil & Social Integra, Quebec City, PQ G1M 2S8, Canada; [Roy, Jean-Sebastien] Laval Univ, Fac Med, Dept Rehabil, Quebec City, PQ G1R 1P5, Canada; [Plemmons, Marin; Willy, Richard] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Missoula, MT USA; [de Fontenay, Benoit Pairot] 10 Rue Dumenge, F-69004 Lyon, France; [de Fontenay, Benoit Pairot] 10 Rue Dumenge, F-69004 Lyon, France								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000975763300001	36	Article; Article		
J	Miyamoto, Daido; Saito, Akira; Kimoto, Minoru; Terui, Yoshino; Okada, Kyoji								Relationship between the knee valgus moment and the hip abductor and adductor activity during single-leg landing								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				129	134		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.03.009			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: To reveal the relationship between the knee valgus moment (KVM) and the hip abductor and adductor activity during single-leg landing. Design: A cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory-based, between April 2020 and May 2021. Participants: Thirty female collegiate athletes. Main outcome measures: KVM, hip adduction angle, hip internal rotation angle, knee valgus angle (KVA), gluteus medius muscle activity, adductor longus muscle activity, adductor longus to gluteus medius activity ratio (ADD/GMED), and vertical component of the ground reaction force (vGRF). Results: Stepwise multiple regression analysis was performed. KVM was significantly positively associated with KVA (0 = 0.613, p < 0.001), vGRF (0 = 0.367, p = 0.010), and ADD/GMED (0 = 0.289, p = 0.038). Conclusions: Increased KVA, vGRF, and ADD/GMED were the independent factors that contributed to increased KVM during single-leg landing, and only ADD/GMED was found among the muscle activity values. The relative muscle activity of the gluteus medius and adductor longus, rather than those of the gluteus medius or adductor longus alone, may be useful in preventing anterior cruciate ligament injury during single-leg landing.		[Miyamoto, Daido] Akita Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, Akita, Japan; [Saito, Akira; Kimoto, Minoru; Terui, Yoshino; Okada, Kyoji] Akita Univ Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Akita, Japan; [Miyamoto, Daido] Akita Univ Hosp, 44-2 hasunuma,hiroomote, Akita 0108543, Japan; [Miyamoto, Daido] Akita Univ Hosp, 44-2 hasunuma,hiroomote, Akita 0108543, Japan								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000976475600001	48	Article; Article		
J	Allen, Tom; Taberner, Matt; Zhilkin, Mikhail; Rhodes, David								Running more than before? The evolution of running load demands in the English Premier League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			779	787	17479541231164507	10.1177/17479541231164507			APR 2024	2024	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to assess running load trends (total distance (TD), high-intensity distance (HID; > 5.5ms(-1)) and sprinting distance (SprD; > 7ms(-1))) in the English Premier League (EPL) between the 2014/2015 and 2018/2019 seasons using a semi-automated optical tracking system. Methods: A total of 1634 games across 5 seasons (2014/2015-2018/2019) were analysed for team and positional TD, HID and SprD. All matches were tracked using TRACAB((R)) Gen-4 HD motion cameras. Data were analysed to identify significant team and positional differences for each metric. Results: Small to moderate increases were seen in team running load for TD (p = 0.02; effect size (ES): 0.21), HID (p < 0.001; ES: 0.88) and SprD (p < 0.001; ES: 0.67) between 2014/2015 and 2018/2019. Positional analysis showed significant increases in TD for all except for defensive midfielders (DM), attacking midfielders (AM) and wide midfielders (WM) (p < 0.001-0.009; ES: 0.14-0.36); HID for all positions excluding goalkeepers (GK) (p < 0.001-0.007; ES: 0.2-0.54) and SprD for all positions except for GK, central midfielders (CM) and AM, (p < 0.001-0.020; ES: 0.19-0.39). Trivial to small differences were seen in season-to-season comparisons for TD (p < 0.001-0.023; ES: -0.16-0.52), HID (p < 0.001-0.033; ES: 0.10-0.38) and SprD (p < 0.001-0.025; ES: 0.13-0.27) for both team and positional differences. Conclusion: Small to moderate increases in team TD, HID and SprD occurred in the EPL between 2014/2015 and 2018/2019, with trivial to small changes in season-to-season variations. Actual changes in running load over time appear to be dependent on playing position. Running load trends should be updated regularly and practitioners should be aware of the variability within their team, and programme accordingly.		[Allen, Tom; Zhilkin, Mikhail] Arsenal Football Club, Arsenal Performance & Res Team, London AL2 1DR, England; [Allen, Tom; Rhodes, David] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Preston, England; [Taberner, Matt] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Allen, Tom] Arsenal Football Club, Arsenal Performance & Res Team, London AL2 1DR, England								81							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000962292100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Bliss, Alex; Langdown, Ben								Integrating strength and conditioning training and golf practice during the golf season: Approaches and perceptions of highly skilled golfers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1605	1614		10.1177/17479541231166288			OCT 2023	2023	Contemporary evidence has demonstrated strength and conditioning (S&C) training benefits golf performance, primarily by improving clubhead speed. However, no empirical data exist that describe how, or even if, golfers integrate their S&C training and golf practice. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the perceptions and practices of skilled golfers with regards to planning the season and how S&C is structured in the golf year. Sixty-five (male n = 48; female n = 17) Category 1 amateur (n = 50) and professional (n = 15) golfers completed a mixed-methods online survey. Survey answers were either golf practice or S&C training focused. Results showed the majority of golfers engage with S&C training (n = 44; 67.7%) and follow a programme (n = 53. 81.5%). Contrastingly, they reported having little structure for golf practice, choosing to have no annual plan (n = 14; 21.9%), have a reactive approach (n = 22. 34.9%) based on recent performances or training what feels appropriate/enjoyable (n = 15; 23.8%). Golfers reported they adjust their training around competition (n = 47; 74.6%) but with various approaches. The dichotomous and contradictory responses received across multiple answers demonstrate that continued education and research are required to help golfers integrate S&C training with their golf practice.		[Bliss, Alex] St Marys Univ, Ctr Appl Performance Sci, London, England; [Langdown, Ben] Open Univ, Sch Educ Childhood Youth & Sport, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, England; [Bliss, Alex] St Marys Univ, Ctr Appl Performance Sci, London TW1 4SX, England; [Bliss, Alex] St Marys Univ, Ctr Appl Performance Sci, London TW1 4SX, England								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000962014800001	45	Article; Article		
J	Kuenstler, Ens Molly; Leggit, Jeffrey C.; Raiciulescu, Sorana; Zhang, Helen; Boden, Barry P.								Facial injuries in the National Basketball Association: 2013-14 through 2017-18								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	2			160	166		10.1080/00913847.2023.2196932			MAR 3 2024	2024	ObjectiveTo describe the epidemiology, mechanisms, treatment, and disability for facial injuries in National Basketball Association (NBA) athletes.MethodsThis was a retrospective descriptive epidemiological chart review using NBA Electronic Medical Record (EMR) system. Responses to injuries reported in games, practices, and other activities were used for all data analysis, except for game incidence rates. Incidence rates were calculated by the game-related facial injury incidence per total athlete exposure (player-games).ResultsThere were 440 facial injuries among 263 athletes during the 5 NBA seasons with an overall single-season risk of 12.6% and a game incidence of 2.4 per 1000 athlete-exposures (95% CI: 2.18-2.68). The majority of injuries were lacerations (n = 159, 36.1%), contusions (n = 99, 22.5%), or fractures (n = 67, 15.2%), with ocular (n = 163, 37.0%) being the most commonly injured location. Sixty (13.6%) injuries resulted in at least one NBA game missed (224 cumulative player-games) with ocular injuries resulting in the most cumulative games missed (n = 167, 74.6%). Nasal fractures (n = 39, 58.2%) were the most common fracture location followed by ocular fractures (n = 12, 17.9%) but were less likely to lead to games missed (median = 1, IRQ: 1-3) than ocular (median = 7, IQR: 2-10) fractures.ConclusionsAn average of one in eight NBA players sustained a facial injury each season with ocular injuries being the most common location. While most facial injuries are minor, serious injuries, especially ocular fractures, can result in games missed.		[Kuenstler, Ens Molly; Leggit, Jeffrey C.; Raiciulescu, Sorana] Uniformed Serv Univ Hlth Sci, Sch Med, Bethesda, MD USA; [Zhang, Helen] IQVIA, Injury Surveillance & Analyt, Real World Solut, Durham, NC USA; [Boden, Barry P.] CAO, Div, Rockville, MD USA; [Leggit, Jeffrey C.] Uniformed Serv Univ Hlth Sci, CAQSM, Bethesda, MD 20814 USA; [Leggit, Jeffrey C.] Uniformed Serv Univ Hlth Sci, CAQSM, Bethesda, MD 20814 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000962067200001	18	Article; Article		
J	Ottinger, Charlie R.; Sharp, Matthew H.; Stefan, Matthew W.; Gheith, Raad H.; de la Espriella, Fernando; Wilson, Jacob M.								Muscle Hypertrophy Response to Range of Motion in Strength Training: A Novel Approach to Understanding the Findings								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	2			162	176		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000737			APR 2023	2023	One resistance training variable that may be altered to achieve desired outcomes is the range of motion used in training. Generally, the strength and conditioning field has accepted that using a greater range of motion in strength training exercises results in more substantial muscle hypertrophy outcomes. However, this theory has proved to be inconsistently supported in the literature, and to date, no sufficient explanation exists to explain this phenomenon. This review article seeks to outline a novel approach for potentially describing the disparities seen in range of motion research with respect to hypertrophy outcomes by applying the unique length-tension curve of each muscle being examined. As will be discussed in the review, virtually all the results from range of motion studies in various muscles have corresponded to each muscle's length-tension curve; muscles that are active on the descending limb of the curve appear to garner greater hypertrophy from using larger ranges of motion. Conversely, muscles that are not active on the descending limb exhibit similar adaptations despite alterations in range of motion. A novel hypothesis for applying this information to resistance training programs will be presented and discussed.		[Ottinger, Charlie R.; Sharp, Matthew H.; Stefan, Matthew W.; Gheith, Raad H.; de la Espriella, Fernando; Wilson, Jacob M.] Appl Sci & Performance Inst, Res Div, Tampa, FL 33607 USA; [Ottinger, Charlie R.] Appl Sci & Performance Inst, Res Div, Tampa, FL 33607 USA								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000961336200004	76	Article; Article		
J	Lincoln, Merrick A.; Wheeler, Sheldon G.; Knous, Jeremy L.								Safety Squat Bar Squat Technique and Biomechanics-Driven Programming								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	2			241	250		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000717			APR 2023	2023	The safety squat bar squat (SSBS) is a unique squat variation performed with its namesake barbell. In addition to describing proper SSBS technique, this column reviews SSBS biomechanics, criteria for exercise performance, programming opportunities for special populations, and descriptions of 3 additional exercise variations with suggestions for use.		[Lincoln, Merrick A.; Wheeler, Sheldon G.; Knous, Jeremy L.] Saginaw Valley State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Univ City, MI 48710 USA; [Lincoln, Merrick A.] Saginaw Valley State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Univ City, MI 48710 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000961336200009	93	Article; Article		
J	Koziris, Lymperis (Perry)								Isometric Resistance Training Is Recommended as a Safe and Effective Adjunct Therapy to Reduce Blood Pressure								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	2			251	255		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000734			APR 2023	2023	Most scientific organizations recommend isometric resistance training (IRT) to manage blood pressure (BP), whereas some still do not. A typical grip IRT program of 4 x 2-minute 30%-intensity efforts with 1-3-minute rest periods, performed =3x/week for =8 weeks, can be efficient, safe, and relatively inexpensive. It can help decrease resting BP at least as much as aerobic or dynamic resistance training. IRT can be as effective as one antihypertensive medication and likely lessens strokes and myocardial infarctions. It can be as safe as other exercise modes regarding acute BP rise and safer than aerobic exercise regarding cardiac demand. Grip IRT is currently more conducive than leg IRT to program delivery. These highlights come from an expert-panel consensus reached through a largely anonymous multistep process, agreeing with the organizations that support IRT. To follow the science on IRT and BP, exercise and health care practitioners should seek corroboration from the guidelines of multiple organizations.		[Koziris, Lymperis (Perry)] Long Life Athlet, Sci & Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Koziris, Lymperis (Perry)] Long Life Athlet, Sci & Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000961336200010	5	Article; Article		
J	Holmberg, Patrick M.; Harrison, Peter W.; Jenkins, David G.; Kelly, Vincent G.								Factors Modulating the Priming Response to Resistance and Stretch-Shortening Cycle Exercise Stimuli								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	2			188	206		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000728			APR 2023	2023	"Priming exercises" are gaining popularity as a precompetition strategy to improve subsequent performance. Although priming exercise has been shown to improve various neuromuscular performance measures within 48 hours, a number of studies have also found no change or significant decreases in performance following priming interventions. Inconsistencies in findings are likely due to the many different variables used in the research. In addition, evidence suggests that the potential performance response following a priming stimulus is likely to be influenced by individual characteristics. Therefore, the purpose of this review is to examine the available evidence and identify those variables that most strongly determine whether priming stimuli involving resistance and stretch-shortening cycle exercise tasks are likely to improve performance within 48 hours of that stimulus. In addition to making recommendations based on the evidence to date, directions for future research are also identified.		[Holmberg, Patrick M.; Kelly, Vincent G.] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Harrison, Peter W.; Jenkins, David G.; Kelly, Vincent G.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, St Lucia, Qld, Australia; [Jenkins, David G.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Jenkins, David G.] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Sci Technol & Med Res Ctr, Swansea, Wales; [Holmberg, Patrick M.] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000961336200006	157	Article; Article		
J	Buzdagli, Yusuf; Eyipinar, Cemre Didem; Tekin, Aslihan; Siktar, Erdinc; Zydecka, Karolina Skonieczna								Effect of Taurine Supplement on Aerobic and Anaerobic Outcomes: Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	2			228	240		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000729			APR 2023	2023	Taurine is a well-known free amino acid that has gained prominence in recent years despite its little or no role in protein formation. Few studies on the ergogenic effect of taurine exist with inconsistent results. This study aimed to reach a consensus about whether taurine supplementation is effective on aerobic and anaerobic performance outputs. Google Scholar, Pubmed databases, clinical trial websites, and grey literature were reviewed until November 2021. Mean differences were pooled using random or fixed-effects models according to the heterogeneity degree of related outcomes. Although 17 studies were detected for the meta-analysis between 2001-2021, 15 studies were grouped. Only randomized controlled trials were considered. Taurine supplementation had a significant effect on vertical (MD = 3.60; 95% CI [2.32 to 4.89], p < 0.00001) and countermovement (MD = 8.50; 95% CI [4.78 to 12.22], p < 0.00001) jump performance when compared to a placebo group. Taurine supplementation had no significant effect on V?o(2)max level and rate of perceived exertion (respectively, MD = -0.54 mL/kg/min; 95% CI [-6.84 to 5.75], p = 0.87; MD = -0.24; 95% CI [-0.74 to 0.27], p = 0.35) when compared to a placebo group. Taurine improves potentially jumping performance and time to exhaustion.		[Buzdagli, Yusuf] Erzurum Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Training, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Eyipinar, Cemre Didem] Gaziantep Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Gaziantep, Turkiye; [Tekin, Aslihan] Ibrahim Cecen Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Agri, Turkiye; [Siktar, Erdinc] Erzurum Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Erzurum, Turkiye; [Zydecka, Karolina Skonieczna] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Human Nutr & Metabol, Szczecin, Poland; [Buzdagli, Yusuf] Erzurum Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Coaching Training, Erzurum, Turkiye								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000961336200008	70	Article; Article		
J	Meyer, Johannes; Klatt, Stefanie								Additional substitutions in elite European football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			769	778		10.1177/17479541231164090			APR 2024	2024	In 2020, the International Football Association Board (IFAB) introduced a temporary rule amendment of two additional substitutions in regular time. In this study, we assess the impact of this rule change with regard to player relief, tactical influence by the coaches and the development of young players. Data were collected from 3652 matches from the top 5 leagues in the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) rankings and 659 UEFA club competition matches (Champions League and Europa League) in 2 different seasons (pre-rule amendment: 2018/2019 vs. post-rule amendment: 2020/2021), comparing leagues that introduced two additional substitutions with those that did not. The results show that with two additional substitutions, the reduction in player load was increased by 46%. Despite being used infrequently, the rule change resulted in 45% more substitutions and, therefore, greater tactical influence by the coaches. Furthermore, two additional substitutions benefit young players' development with an 81% increase in playing time. While the aim of the temporary amendment to the laws of the game was achieved with the additional substitutions by compensating for the increased load on the players, coaches' substitution behaviour shows potential for improvement.		[Meyer, Johannes; Klatt, Stefanie] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Dept Cognit & Team Racket Sport Res, Cologne, Germany; [Meyer, Johannes] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Dept Cognit & Team Racket Sport Res, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Meyer, Johannes] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Dept Cognit & Team Racket Sport Res, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000961102600001	35	Article; Article		
J	Xue, Jingjing; Yang, Xiaohe; Hong, Ping; Hu, Yanru; Wen, Rou								Injury epidemiology in Chinese undergraduate classical dance students: A 14-week prospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				108	113		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.03.006			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: The aim of this study was to investigate the injury prevalence, incidence rate, injury pro-portions, and characteristics of injuries in Chinese undergraduate classical dance students by using the modified Oslo Sports Trauma Research Centre Questionnaire on Health Problems.Design: Prospective study.Setting: Online survey. Participants: 63 Chinese classical undergraduate students (female: 40, male: 23; median age: 20 years, range: 17-20 years) completed the survey.Main outcome measures: The injury prevalence (proportions) and incidence rate were calculated. The characteristics (severity, locations, injury type) of injuries were investigated.Results: During the 14-weeks, 84% students reported injury occurrence more than one time. The injury incidence rate was 3.28 injuries per 1000h across 14-weeks. Weekly proportion for all injuries ranged from 38.2% to 61.9% and substantial injuries ranged from 7.5% to 22.7%. The lower back was the most frequently injured body location (38.9%), followed by the knee (17.3%) and the ankle (12.9%). In all re-ported injuries, overuse injury was the most prevalent type (78.9%, 95% CI: 73.2%-81.1%).Conclusions: Chinese classical dance students are at a relatively high risk for injuries. Injury prevention programs in Chinese classical dance students should focus on the lower back and lower extremity.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Xue, Jingjing; Hu, Yanru; Wen, Rou] Beijing Dance Acad, Sch Humanities, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yang, Xiaohe] Beijing Dance Acad, Dept Chinese Class Dance, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Hong, Ping] Beijing Sport Univ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wen, Rou] Beijing Dance Acad, Sch Humanities, 1 Wanshousi Rd, Beijing 100081, Peoples R China; [Wen, Rou] Beijing Dance Acad, Sch Humanities, 1 Wanshousi Rd, Beijing 100081, Peoples R China								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000971191100001	36	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Matt; Lancaster, Mike; Tulloch, Laura; O'Leary, Brian; Power, Eoin; Howes, David; Sourbuts, Bobby; Berry, Amber; Maher, Francesca; O'Neill, Seth								Normative isometric plantarflexion strength values for professional level, male rugby union athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				114	121		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.03.007			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: The primary aim was to establish normative values of isometric plantarflexor muscle strength in professional male rugby union players and compare forwards with backs. The secondary aims were to examine how individual playing position or age influences isometric plantarflexor strength.Design: Cross-sectional.Setting: Testing at professional rugby clubs.Participants: 355 players (201 forwards and 154 backs) from 9 clubs in the English Premiership club competition.Main outcome measures: Maximal unilateral isometric plantarflexion strength was measured, using a Fysiometer C-Station, in a seated position with a flexed knee and in maximal available dorsiflexion. Values are reported normalised to body mass and specific to playing position.Results: Mean combined limb isometric plantarflexion strength for the group was 193.1 kg (SD 32) or 1.86 xBW. (SD 0.31). Forwards were significantly weaker than backs (forwards = 1.75xBW (SD 0.26), backs = 2.00xBW (SD 0.28) (p=<0.0001)). Age category revealed no influence on plantarflexor strength.Conclusion: This study presents normative isometric plantarflexion strength values for professional male rugby union players. Forwards are typically relatively weaker than backs.(c) 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Lee, Matt] Northampton Saints RFC, Northampton, England; [Lee, Matt; Maher, Francesca; O'Neill, Seth] Univ Leicester, Leicester, England; [Lancaster, Mike] Harlequins RFC, London, England; [Tulloch, Laura] Saracens RFC, London, England; [O'Leary, Brian] London Irish RFC, London, England; [Power, Eoin] Gloucester RFC, Gloucester, England; [Howes, David] Bristol RFC, Bristol, England; [Sourbuts, Bobby] Rugby Football Union, London, England; [Berry, Amber] Univ Hosp Leicestershire NHS Trust, Leicester, England; [Lee, Matt] Univ Leicester, Coll Life Sci, Sch Healthcare, Univ Rd, Leicester LE1 7RH, England; [Lee, Matt] Univ Leicester, Coll Life Sci, Sch Healthcare, Univ Rd, Leicester LE1 7RH, England								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000971192200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Hintz, Courtney; Presley, Danielle M.; Butler, Cody R.								Heat stroke burden and validity of wearable-derived core temperature estimation during elite military training								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	2			154	159	2190729	10.1080/00913847.2023.2190729			MAR 3 2024	2024	Objectives: Exertional heat stroke (EHS) remains a significant health concern while training in hot environments, prompting the development of noninvasive wearable technology for monitoring estimated core temperature (ECT). The objective of this study was to review the effectiveness of an ECT device during elite military training by providing a case series of individuals who developed EHS. Methods: This is a retrospective study of EHS cases during high-intensity training while wearing the ECT device, Zephyr Bioharness(TM). Data was collected from January 2021 through September 2021 at the Air Force Special Warfare Training pipeline in San Antonio, TX. Rectal temperatures of EHS diagnoses, defined by central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction and rectal temperature approaching or >40 degrees C (104 degrees F), were compared to ECT reading via Zephyr Bioharness(TM). Incidence rates and psychometric properties were calculated using R package. Results: A total of 47,058 daily peak ECT measurements were collected among 1,364 trainees. A total of 499 trainees flagged as potential EHS by Zephyr Bioharness(TM) reading >39.7 degrees C (103.5 degrees F). The incidence of confirmed EHS was 0.8/1000 person-months. Of the 10 confirmed EHS cases (9 males, 1 female; age = 23.4 +/- 2.7 yrs; BMI = 25 +/- 2; body fat = 13 +/- 5%), 8 trainees had a peak ECT reading below 39.7 degrees C which resulted in a sensitivity of 20%, specificity of 98.9%, positive likelihood ratio (LR) of 18.93 (95% Confidence Interval [CI] 5.5-65.6), and a negative LR of 0.81 (95% CI 0.6-1.1). Conclusion: ECT had substantial false positive and negative rates. Further studies are needed to validate this technology in other populations, and the algorithm used in this device needs to be refined to better capture the environmental and physical requirements in the special operations population.		[Hintz, Courtney; Butler, Cody R.] USAF, Special Warfare Human Performance Support Grp, San Antonio, TX 12731 USA; [Presley, Danielle M.] USAF, 39th MDG, Incirlik, Turkiye; [Butler, Cody R.] USAF, Special Warfare Human Performance Support Grp, San Antonio, TX 12731 USA								11							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000956764600001	18	Article; Article		
J	Graber, Kerri A.; Halverstadt, Anne L.; V. Gill, Simone; Kulkarni, Varsha S.; Lewis, Cara L.								The effect of trunk and shank position on the hip-to-knee moment ratio in a bilateral squat								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				102	107		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.03.005			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: The effect of knee position on joint moments during squats has been studied; however, the effect of trunk angle has been less well investigated. This study evaluated the effect of both trunk and knee sagittal plane position on the distribution of moments between the hip and knee extensors during the bilateral squat. Design: Observational study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: One hundred individuals performed bilateral squats. Main outcome measures: Motion and force data were collected using motion capture and force plates. Trunk and shank angles and hip and knee moments were calculated. A linear regression was used to associate the ratio between the hip and knee moments (hip-to-knee moment ratio) with the sagittal plane trunk and shank angles, while accounting for six squat depths (between 60 degrees and 110 degrees of knee flexion) and side. Results: Trunk angle and shank angle each contributed to the hip-to-knee moment ratio (P < .001) with trunk accounting for a higher proportion of variance than the other variables. The hip-to-knee moment ratio increased with increasing trunk angle and with decreasing shank angle. Conclusions: This large cohort study supports the use of trunk position to instruct squat technique with the goal of modifying hip and knee moments. (c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Graber, Kerri A.; Halverstadt, Anne L.; Lewis, Cara L.] Boston Univ, Coll Hlth Rehabil Sci Sargent Coll, Dept Phys Therapy, 635 Commonwealth Ave, Boston, MA 02215 USA; [V. Gill, Simone] Boston Univ, Coll Hlth Rehabil Sci Sargent Coll, Dept Occupat Therapy, 635 Commonwealth Ave, Boston, MA 02215 USA; [Kulkarni, Varsha S.] Boston Univ, Dept Math & Stat, Coll Arts & Sci, Boston, MA 02215 USA; [Lewis, Cara L.] 635 Commonwealth Ave, Boston, MA 02215 USA; [Lewis, Cara L.] 635 Commonwealth Ave, Boston, MA 02215 USA								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000971177500001	26	Article; Article		
J	Denche-Zamorano, A.; Escudero-Tena, A.; Pereira-Payo, D.; Adsuar, J. C.; Munoz, D.								Scientific mapping of the state-of-the-art in padel. A bibliometric analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1275	1285		10.1177/17479541231161993			JUN 2024	2024	Padel has become one of the most popular racket sports in the world, capturing the interest of researchers and thus increasing the number of manuscripts that revolve around this sport. This article describes the state of development of the science of padel and locates the most relevant journals, authors, institutions, countries and keywords on the subject. The set of publications related to padel was retrieved from the main collection of the Web of Science. The state of development of padel in science was verified. Journals, authors, institutions, countries and keywords in the topic were analysed with the VOSviewer software. A total of 116 publications were analysed, finding that the publications on padel were in a phase of exponential growth. Sanchez-Alcaraz, Courel-Ibanez, Munoz-Marin, Ramon-Llin and Sanchez-Pay were the most prominent authors, with the University of Murcia and Spain being the main institution and country on the subject. The science of padel is growing exponentially, with Spain being the driving force behind the topic of study, with new countries joining in recent years. This study provides relevant information on the state-of-the-art padel, and it will help researchers to establish new relationships and find more relevant authors and articles.		[Denche-Zamorano, A.; Pereira-Payo, D.; Adsuar, J. C.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Promoting Hlth Soc Res Grp PHeSO, Caceres, Spain; [Escudero-Tena, A.] Univ Extremadura, Sport Sci Fac, Training Optimizat & Sport Performance Res Grp GOE, Caceres, Spain; [Munoz, D.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Caceres, Spain; [Pereira-Payo, D.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Promoting Hlth Soc Res Grp PHeSO, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Pereira-Payo, D.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Promoting Hlth Soc Res Grp PHeSO, Caceres 10003, Spain								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000955458900001	71	Article; Article		
J	Tourillon, Romain; Six, Alice; Bothorel, Hugo; Fourchet, Francois								Are foot posture and morphological deformation associated with ankle plantar flexion isokinetic strength and vertical drop jump kinetics? A principal component analysis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	10			2984	2998		10.1080/14763141.2023.2191868			OCT 3 2025	2025	Static measurements are clinically useful in characterising foot morphology, but it remains unclear to what extent it can influence dynamic lower limb performance. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate if foot posture or foot morphology deformation relates to ankle plantarflexion isokinetic strength and specific kinetics variables during jumping using principal component analysis (PCA). Thirty-eight physically active participants performed drop vertical jump (DVJ) onto force platforms and ankle plantarflexion contractions in different modalities on an isokinetic dynamometer. Foot posture was assessed using the Foot Posture Index-6 item, whereas foot one-, two- and three-dimensional morphological deformation was calculated using the Arch Height Index Measurement System. A PCA was applied to the ankle plantarflexion and kinetics performance data and correlations between PCs and foot parameters measured. The analysis revealed 3 PCs within the ankle plantarflexion and DVJ kinetics variables that captured more than 80% of the variability within the data, but none of them showed significant correlations (r <= 0.27) with any foot variables. While foot posture and foot morphological deformation remain of interest in characterising foot morphology across individuals, these findings highlight the lack of clinical relevance of these static evaluations at characterising lower limb and ankle performance.		[Tourillon, Romain; Six, Alice; Fourchet, Francois] La Tour Hosp, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Physiotherapy Dept, Meyrin, Switzerland; [Tourillon, Romain; Six, Alice; Fourchet, Francois] La Tour Hosp, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Mot Anal Lab, Meyrin, Switzerland; [Tourillon, Romain] Univ Savoie Mont Blanc, Univ Jean Monnet St Etienne, Lyon 1, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Biol, St Etienne, France; [Six, Alice] IFMK, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Nancy, France; [Bothorel, Hugo] La Tour Hosp, Res Dept, Meyrin, Switzerland; [Fourchet, Francois] French Sport Physiotherapy Assoc, SFMKS Lab, Paris, France; [Tourillon, Romain] La Tour Hosp, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Physiotherapy Dept, Meyrin, Switzerland; [Tourillon, Romain] La Tour Hosp, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Mot Anal Lab, Meyrin, Switzerland; [Tourillon, Romain] Univ Savoie Mont Blanc, Univ Jean Monnet St Etienne, Lyon 1, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Biol, St Etienne, France								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000951973900001	63	Article; Article		
J	Garcia, Gina L. L.; Caminita, Mia; Hunter, Jessica G. G.; Miller, Ross H. H.; Shim, Jae Kun								Dorsiflexion shoes affect joint-level landing mechanics related to lower extremity injury risk in females								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			970	984		10.1080/14763141.2023.2191867			APR 3 2025	2025	Athletic shoes that induce dorsiflexion in standing can improve jump height compared to traditional athletic shoes that induce plantarflexion, but it is unknown if dorsiflexion shoes (DF) also affect landing biomechanics associated with lower extremity injury risk. Thus, the purpose of this study was to investigate if DF adversely affect landing mechanics related to patellofemoral pain and anterior cruciate ligament injury risk compared to neutral (NT) and plantarflexion (PF) shoes. Sixteen females (21.65 +/- 4.7 years, 63.69 +/- 14.3 kg, 1.60 +/- 0.05 m) performed three maximum vertical countermovement jumps in DF (-1.5 degrees), NT (0 degrees) and PF (8 degrees) shoes as 3D kinetics and kinematics were recorded. One-way repeated-measures ANOVAs revealed peak vertical ground reaction force, knee abduction moment and total energy absorption were similar between conditions. At the knee, peak flexion and joint displacement were lower in DF and NT, while relative energy absorption was greater in PF (all p < .01). Conversely, relative ankle energy absorption was greater in DF and NT compared to PF (p < .01). Both DF and NT induce landing patterns that may increase strain on passive structures in the knee, emphasising the need for landing mechanics to be considered when testing footwear as gains in performance could come at the cost of injury risk.		[Garcia, Gina L. L.; Caminita, Mia; Hunter, Jessica G. G.; Miller, Ross H. H.; Shim, Jae Kun] Univ Maryland, Dept Kinesiol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Miller, Ross H. H.; Shim, Jae Kun] Univ Maryland, Neurosci & Cognit Sci Program, College Pk, MD USA; [Shim, Jae Kun] Kyung Hee Univ, Dept Mech Engn, Seoul, South Korea; [Shim, Jae Kun] Univ Maryland, Fischell Dept Bioengn, College Pk, MD USA; [Shim, Jae Kun] Univ Maryland, Dept Kinesiol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000954710600001	56	Article; Article		
J	Gatt, Ian T.; Allen, Tom; Wheat, Jon								Effects of using rigid tape with bandaging techniques on wrist joint motion during boxing shots in elite male athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				82	90		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.03.002			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: To investigate the effects of bandaging techniques on wrist motion on impact during different shot types in elite male boxers.Design: Repeated-measures study.Setting: Field ExperimentParticipants: Two shot types, straight and bent arm, were assessed with 18 elite male boxers wearing either bandage only or bandage plus tape. Main Outcomes Measures: Wrist motions and time to peak wrist angles, on impact, were measured with an electromagnetic tracking system.Results: Wrist motion on impact occurred concurrently in flexion and ulnar deviation for both shot types. For both motions, significant (p < 0.001) effects for bandaging techniques (h2 = 0.580-0.729) and shot types (h2 = 0.165-0.280) were observed. For straight and bent arm shots, wrist motion on impact occurred within 50% and 40% respectively of total active wrist motion for bandage only compared to within 20% and 15% for bandage plus tape. Time to peak wrist angle on impact increased significantly (p < 0.001) for both shot types when adding tape to bandage.Conclusions: Adding tape provided an additional 25-30% reduction in wrist motion compared to bandage only, with a 1.2-1.4 increase in time to peak wrist angle, on impact for both shot types. This information could assist various individuals and organisations towards better hand-wrist protection. (c) 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Gatt, Ian T.] English Inst Sport, Physiotherapy Dept, Sheffield, England; [Allen, Tom] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Sports Engn Res Team, Manchester, England; [Gatt, Ian T.; Wheat, Jon] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sports Engn Res Grp, Sheffield, England; [Gatt, Ian T.] English Inst Sport Rd, Physiotherapy Dept, Sheffield S9 5DA, England; [Gatt, Ian T.] English Inst Sport Rd, Physiotherapy Dept, Sheffield S9 5DA, England								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000972021900001	42	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Fernando; Rathwell, Scott; Sabino, Bebiana; Camire, Martin; Strachan, Leisha; MacDonald, Dany J.								Analyzing continuous coach education courses in Portugal: Implications for youth development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1036	1044		10.1177/17479541231164736			AUG 2023	2023	Continuous coach education courses (CCEC) are considered a crucial vehicle for exposing coaches to topics (e.g., nutrition, mental health, positive youth development) not addressed in their initial coach training. CCEC can help coaches develop well-rounded coaching practices based on youth's physical, social, emotional, and psychological needs. The purpose of the study was to analyze the distribution of CCEC offered in Portugal between 2014 and 2020. Descriptive and inferential statistics were used to analyze (a) the number of CCEC offered; (b) hours devoted to each topic; (c) the types of organizations who delivered CCEC; (e) the format of CCEC (i.e., online or in-person); (f) the geographical distribution of CCEC throughout Portugal; (g) the number of coach participants per topic. The results indicate that courses addressing mental health, social justice, positive youth development, and sleep hygiene are seldomly delivered in Portugal, meaning that coaches have few opportunities to be exposed to and learn about these important topics. Thus, our results suggest CCEC in Portugal may not be extending coaches' knowledge much beyond topics covered in their initial coach training. The lack of breadth in training may help perpetuate the emphasis on the technical, tactical, and physical development of youth with the Portuguese youth sport system. Based on the results, implications for youth development are offered.		[Santos, Fernando] Polytech Inst Porto, Sch Higher Educ, Porto, Portugal; [Santos, Fernando] Ctr Res & Innovat Educ, inED, Porto, Portugal; [Rathwell, Scott] Univ Lethbridge, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Lehtbridge, AB, Canada; [Sabino, Bebiana] Polytech Inst Beja, Sch Higher Educ, Beja, Portugal; [Camire, Martin] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Strachan, Leisha] Univ Manitoba, Fac Kinesiol & Recreat Management, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [MacDonald, Dany J.] Univ Prince Edward Isl, Dept Appl Human Sci, Charlottetown, PE, Canada; [Santos, Fernando] Ctr Res & Innovat Educ, inED, Porto, Portugal								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000955324900001	20	Article; Article		
J	Hwang, Seunghyun; Sedabres, Kaitlynn; Dithurbide, Lori; Feltz, Deborah								Efficacy beliefs and motivational dynamics in early-season collegiate swimming relays								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	2			638	652		10.1177/17479541231165133			APR 2024	2024	This study examined the moderating effects of efficacy beliefs and perceived indispensability on individual efforts in early-season collegiate swimming relays. Effort changes from swimmers' individual best times to relay-leg times were compared as a function of relay members' relative strength (i.e., fastest or slowest) and serial position (i.e., first or last leg). Participants (N = 199) were collegiate swimmers in 200, 400, or 800-yard freestyle relays at fall invitational meets providing 260 cases included for analysis. Individual lifetime best times, adjusted relay times, rank, serial position, and self-report measures (i.e., efficacy, perceived indispensability of their relay performance) were used for hierarchical multiple regressions. Results indicated that the slowest relay members came closer to their individual best times compared with their team members. The fastest members showed less effort change toward their individual best times than their team members. However, efficacy beliefs in one's teammates had a small positive moderating influence on the fastest members' effort in relay performances. Based on our results, we recommend Division II and III collegiate coaches not be too concerned with positional order by particular rank at early season invitationals; instead, focus on how to obtain the most effort from each relay member. However, the slowest swimmers may perform better if not positioned first.		[Hwang, Seunghyun] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Dept Leisure Sport, Daegu, South Korea; [Sedabres, Kaitlynn; Feltz, Deborah] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, E Lansing, MI USA; [Dithurbide, Lori] Dalhousie Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Halifax, NS, Canada; [Hwang, Seunghyun] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Dept Leisure Sport, 2559 Gyeongsang Daero, Gyeongsangbuk Do, South Korea; [Hwang, Seunghyun] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Dept Leisure Sport, 2559 Gyeongsang Daero, Gyeongsangbuk Do, South Korea								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000951730800001	36	Article; Article		
J	Escudero-Tena, Adrian; Galatti, Larissa; Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino J.; Munoz, Diego; Ibanez, Sergio J.								Effect of the golden points and non-golden points on performance parameters in professional padel								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1314	1323		10.1177/17479541231161288			JUN 2024	2024	Since the 2020 season the World Padel Tour (WPT) has incorporated the golden point rule, which consists of playing a point to decide the game when the score is deuce (40-40). The objective of this study was to analyze the characteristics of the golden points and the rest of the points in men's and women's professional padel, as well as to identify the differences between both types of points. A sample of 2752 points (1431 men's and 1321 women's) was used from 394 games identified and finished with a golden point, corresponding to 69 matches played in the 2021 season of the WPT circuit. The variables recorded were the type of point (golden points and non-golden points), player serving, tactical service position, number of net exchanges, effectiveness of the partner serving and effectiveness of the last shot through systematic observation. The results indicate that during the golden points in men's padel, the Australian position is usually used more, while in women's padel the Australian position is more common when the player on the right serves and the traditional one when the player on the left serves. In addition, both in men and women, the most common serves are those directed towards the side wall. On the other hand, except for the errors in women's padel during the golden points, the winning shots are made in areas close to the net and the errors in areas at the back of the court.		[Escudero-Tena, Adrian; Munoz, Diego; Ibanez, Sergio J.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Galatti, Larissa] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Appl Sci, Limeira, Brazil; [Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino J.] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Escudero-Tena, Adrian] Univ Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000953715800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Escudero-Tena, Adrian; Ibanez, Sergio J.; Parraca, Jose A.; Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino Javier; Munoz, Diego; Canias, Jeronimo; Crespo, Miguel; Pradas, Francisco								Influence of the importance of the point and service tactical position in the shot following the return in men's and women's professional padel								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1357	1365		10.1177/17479541231163535			JUN 2024	2024	The objective of this research was to analyse the shot following the return in men's and women's professional padel according to the importance of the point and the service tactical position. The type of shot following the return, importance of the shot and tactical position of the serving pair were recorded by systematic observation. A total of 2752 points (1431 men's and 1321 women's) from 69 matches played in the 2021 season of the World Padel Tour circuit were used. The results show that while men use more forehand and backhand volleys as shots following the return, women use more trays or smashes and back wall shots. In addition, while the server is the one who plays the most third shots following a straight return in men's padel (forehand and backhand volleys) and women's (forehand volleys and backhand volleys), the server's partner is the one who plays the most third shots following a lob return in the men's category (trays or smashes and back wall shots) and women's category (trays or smashes and back wall shots). Moreover, the importance of the point and the service position are parameters that affect the shot following the return in men's and women's professional padel. Thus, these findings are very novel as it is the first investigation to analyse the shot following the return in professional padel.		[Canias, Jeronimo] Univ Granada, Granada, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Barcelona, Spain; [Pradas, Francisco] Univ Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain; [Escudero-Tena, Adrian; Ibanez, Sergio J.] Univ Extremadura, Training Optimizat & Sport Performance Res Grp GO, Caceres, Spain; [Parraca, Jose A.] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Evora, Portugal; [Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino Javier] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Munoz, Diego] Univ Extremadura, Dept Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Caceres, Spain; [Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino Javier] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia 30700, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000953606900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Valente, Henrique Goncalves; de Oliveira, Rodrigo Ribeiro; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini								How are hamstring strain injuries managed in elite men's football clubs? A survey with 62 Brazilian physical therapists								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				73	81		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.03.001			MAY 2023	2023	Objective: To describe perceptions and practices of physical therapists from elite men's football clubs on the management of athletes with hamstring strain injury (HSI).Design: Cross-sectional study.Setting: Online survey.Participants: Physical therapists from clubs engaged in the two main divisions of Brazilian men's football.Main outcome measures: Practices for assessment and rehabilitation of athletes with HSI.Results: This survey had 62 physical therapists from 35 of the 40 eligible clubs (87.5% representative-ness). Despite heterogeneity on assessment practices, all respondents use imaging exams, adopt injury classification scales, and evaluate aspects related to pain, range of motion, muscle strength, and func-tional status of athletes with HSI. Rehabilitation programs are usually divided into 3 to 4 phases. All respondents usually apply electrophysical agents and stretching in HSI rehabilitation programs, 98.4% apply strengthening exercises (93.5% include eccentrics), 96.8% manual therapy, 95.2% exercises that mimic the functional demands of football, and 93.5% lumbopelvic stabilization exercises. Muscle strength was the most reported return to play criterion (71% of respondents).Conclusion: The present study allowed the sports physical therapy community to become aware of the approaches usually adopted for management of athletes with HSI who play in the highest level of Brazilian men's football.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Valente, Henrique Goncalves; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Valente, Henrique Goncalves] Gremio Foot Ball Porto Alegrense, Dept Sci Hlth & Performance, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Rodrigo Ribeiro] Univ Fed Ceara, Program Phys Therapy & Functioning, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre, Sarmento Leite St 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre, Sarmento Leite St 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000956426700001	40	Article; Article		
J	Warneke, Konstantin; Aragao-Santos, Jose Carlos; Alizadeh, Shahab; Bahrami, Mahdi; Anvar, Saman Hadjizadeh; Konrad, Andreas; Behm, David G.								Are Acute Effects of Foam-Rolling Attributed to Dynamic Warm Up Effects? A Comparative Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			180	188		10.52082/jssm.2023.180			JUN 2023	2023	Over the last decade, acute increases in range of motion (ROM) in response to foam rolling (FR) have been frequently reported. Compared to stretching, FR-induced ROM increases were not typically accompanied by a performance (e.g., force, power, endurance) deficit. Consequently, the inclusion of FR in warm-up routines was frequently recommended, especially since literature pointed out non-local ROM increases after FR. However, to attribute ROM increases to FR it must be ensured that such adaptations do not occur as a result of simple warm-up effects, as significant increases in ROM can also be assumed as a result of active warm-up routines. To answer this research question, 20 participants were recruited using a cross-over design. They performed 4x45 seconds hamstrings rolling under two conditions; FR, and sham rolling (SR) using a roller board to imitate the foam rolling movement without the pressure of the foam rolling. They were also tested in a control condition. Effects on ROM were tested under passive, active dynamic as well as ballistic conditions. Moreover, to examine non-local effects the knee to wall test (KtW) was used. Results showed that both interventions provided significant, moderate to large magnitude increases in passive hamstrings ROM and KtW respectively, compared to the control condition (p = 0.007 - 0.041, d = 0.62 - 0.77 and p = 0.002 - 0.006, d = 0.79 - 0.88, respectively). However, the ROM increases were not significantly different between the FR and the SR condition (p = 0.801, d = 0.156 and p = 0.933, d = 0.09, respectively). No significant changes could be obtained under the active dynamic (p = 0.65) while there was a significant decrease in the ballistic testing condition with a time effect (p < 0.001). Thus, it can be assumed that potential acute increases in ROM cannot be exclusively attributed to FR. It is therefore speculated that warm up effects could be responsible independent of FR or imitating the rolling movement, which indicates there is no additive effect of FR or SR to the dynamic or ballistic range of motion.		[Warneke, Konstantin] Leuphana Univ, Inst Exercise Sport & Hlth, Luneburg, Germany; [Warneke, Konstantin; Aragao-Santos, Jose Carlos; Alizadeh, Shahab; Bahrami, Mahdi; Anvar, Saman Hadjizadeh; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Aragao-Santos, Jose Carlos] Univ Fed Sergipe, Hlth Sci Grad Program, Sao Cristovao, Brazil; [Alizadeh, Shahab] Univ Calgary, Dept Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000971283600001	67	Article; Article		
J	Beddows, T. P. A.; Weir, A.; Agricola, R.; Tak, I. J. R.; Piscaer, T. M.; Verhaar, J. A. N.; van Klij, P.								Hip and groin pain in male field hockey players: Prevalence, incidence and associations with patient reported outcome scores and hip muscle strength								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				66	72		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.02.010			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: Investigate point prevalence (second half season 2018-2019) and incidence (season 2017-2018 and first half season 2018-2019) of non-time-loss and time-loss hip/groin pain in male field hockey players. Secondary aims were to study associations between: current/previous hip/groin pain and hip muscle strength, patient reported outcome measures (PROM) and hip muscle strength, and previous hip/groin pain and PROMs. Additionally we studied normal values for the PROMs (Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS)).Design: Cross-sectional study.Setting: Testing at field hockey clubs.Participants: 100 male field hockey players (elite, sub-elite and amateur).Main outcome measures: Point prevalence and incidence of hip/groin pain, strength: eccentric adduction and abduction, adductor squeeze, HAGOS. Results: Hip/groin pain point prevalence was 17% (time-loss: 6%) and incidence was 36% (time-loss: 12%). Presence of current or previous hip/groin and lower HAGOS-values were not associated with lower hip muscle strength. Previous hip/groin pain was associated with a significant lower HAGOS-values in all domains, except for the 'participation in physical activities' domain.Conclusions: Hip/groin pain is common in field hockey. One fifth of players have hip/groin pain and one third had pain in the previous season. Previous hip/groin pain was associated with worse ongoing patient reported outcomes in most domains.(c) 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Beddows, T. P. A.; Weir, A.; Agricola, R.; Piscaer, T. M.; Verhaar, J. A. N.; van Klij, P.] Erasmus MC, Afdeling Orthopedie & Sportgeneeskunde, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Weir, A.] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Agricola, R.] St Anna Ziekenhuis, Afdeling Orthoped Chirurg Sport & Orthopedie Eindh, Eindhoven, Netherlands; [Tak, I. J. R.] Fysiotherapie Utrecht Oost, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Tak, I. J. R.] IOC Res Ctr Excellence, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports ACHSS, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van Klij, P.] Isala Ziekenhuis, Afdeling Sportgeneeskunde, Zwolle, Netherlands; [Beddows, T. P. A.] Erasmus MC, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Postbus 2040, NL-3000 CA Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Beddows, T. P. A.] Erasmus MC, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Postbus 2040, NL-3000 CA Rotterdam, Netherlands								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000956924800001	28	Article; Article		
J	Statz, Keevan M. M.; Bogina, Austin C. C.; Schmult, Jennifer L. L.; Gordon, Brian S. S.								Salute to service or salute to skepticism? An empirical analysis of military members' perceptions of the NFL's military campaign								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			661	681		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2022-0102			OCT 11 2023	2023	PurposeSport organizations' use of corporate social responsibility (CSR) has become commonplace. Similarly, academic inquiry into the CSR phenomenon has become almost as ubiquitous. However, this paper argues that a group has been forgotten about in the literature surrounding sport and CSR: the campaign beneficiary, especially in sport-based CSR research. After all, CSR campaigns are intended to support a certain group.Design/methodology/approachUsing a social identity theory and social identity complexity qualitative framework, this paper analyzes the perceptions of the National Football League's (NFL) Salute to Service military campaign among service members, veterans and families.FindingsAfter collecting data via a series of 16 interviews, while service members stated that the service members appreciated the campaign and appreciated what the NFL seeks to do through the campaign, this specific Salute to Service did not have a significant cognitive and behavioral impact for these military consumers.Originality/valueThis work builds on prior CSR beneficiary literature, providing an opportunity to further expand ways in which sport organizations can make sports organizations' CSR campaigns more impactful.		[Statz, Keevan M. M.] Arizona State Univ, WP Carey Sch Business, Tempe, AZ 85281 USA; [Bogina, Austin C. C.] Univ Cent Missouri, Harmon Coll Business, Warrensburg, MO USA; [Schmult, Jennifer L. L.; Gordon, Brian S. S.] Univ Kansas, Sch Educ, Dept Hlth Sport & Exercise Sci HSES, Lawrence, KS USA; [Statz, Keevan M. M.] Arizona State Univ, WP Carey Sch Business, Tempe, AZ 85281 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000948691000001	69	Article; Article		
J	Butterfield, Jessica; Post, Andrew; Karton, Clara; Robidoux, Michael A.; Gilchrist, Michael; Hoshizaki, T. Blaine								A video analysis examination of the frequency and type of head impacts for player positions in youth ice hockey and FE estimation of their impact severity								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			953	969		10.1080/14763141.2023.2186941			APR 3 2025	2025	This research employed head impact frequency and frequency of estimated strain to analyse the influence of player position on brain trauma in U15 and U18 youth ice hockey. The methods involved a video analysis of 30 U15 and 30 U18 games where frequency, type of head impact event, and player position during impact was recorded. These impacts were then simulated in the laboratory using physical reconstructions and finite element modelling to determine the brain strains for each impact category. U15 forwards experienced significantly higher head impact frequencies (139) when compared to defenceman (50), with goalies showing the lowest frequency (6) (p < 0.05). U18 forwards experienced significantly higher head impact frequencies (220) when compared to defenceman (92), with goalies having the least frequent head impacts (4) (p < 0.05). The U15 forwards had a significantly higher frequency of head impacts at the very low and med strains and the U18s had higher frequency of head impacts for the very low and low level strains (p < 0.05). Game rule changes and equipment innovation may be considered to mitigate the increased risk faced by forwards compared to other positions in U15 and U18 youth ice hockey.		[Butterfield, Jessica; Post, Andrew; Karton, Clara; Robidoux, Michael A.; Gilchrist, Michael; Hoshizaki, T. Blaine] Univ Ottawa, Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Post, Andrew; Gilchrist, Michael] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Mech & Mat Engn, Dublin, Ireland; [Post, Andrew] Univ Ottawa, Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Post, Andrew] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Mech & Mat Engn, Dublin, Ireland								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000948594700001	63	Article; Article		
J	Cunniffe, Eoin; Connor, Mark; Beato, Marco; Grainger, Adam; Mcconnell, Walter; Blake, Catherine								Analysing the physical output of international field hockey players through the lens of the phase of play								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			338	352		10.1177/17479541231158527			FEB 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to describe the locomotor activity of men's hockey based on the phase of play and to identify if differences in locomotor activity exist between phases. Twenty-four players (age 26 +/- 4) wore a 10 Hz Global Positioning System device to track locomotor activity during 10 international matches. The locomotor activity of players was allocated to five different phases: (1) established attack, (2) opposition counterattack, (3) established defence, (4) attacking counterattack and (5) offensive pressing, utilising a video analysis-based system. Linear mixed models and post-hoc pairwise comparisons, using estimated marginal means, were utilised to compare the locomotor activity in each phase of play within each position. Significant main effects were found for the phase of play on several locomotor activity metrics (p <= 0.05). With respect to max speed and relative total distance across positions, counterattacks present a unique challenge compared to other phases. Established attack phases evoke lower max speed values than offensive pressing phases for all playing positions as well as compared to opposition counterattacks for defenders, midfielders, and forwards. Positional differences existed during attacking counterattack phases, with defenders producing lower values than both midfielders and forwards for high-speed running, high-speed running efforts, max speed and relative total distance. Depending on the metric, this approach captured 22%-70% of a player's locomotor activity providing valuable insight into the current dynamics of international hockey. This investigation demonstrated positional differences based on the phase of play, which may explain previous research findings regarding positional differences.		[Cunniffe, Eoin; Blake, Catherine] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Cunniffe, Eoin; Grainger, Adam] Hockey Ireland, Dublin, Ireland; [Connor, Mark; Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Ipswich, England; [Connor, Mark] Smurfit Sch Business, Nat Comp Res & Applicat Grp, Dublin, Ireland; [Mcconnell, Walter] Backfour Analyt, Dublin, Ireland; [Cunniffe, Eoin] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000949640300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Brent; Tryce, Stephanie A. A.; Ferrara, Carol								Which sway? Athlete activism, teammate allyship and fan patriotism								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	3			519	537		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2022-0049			JUL 31 2023	2023	PurposeTo measure the relationships between varieties of patriotism and fan reactions to anthem-linked athlete activism and to test the effects of teammate allyship.Design/methodology/approachIn this study of US sport fans (n = 519), the authors examine whether two varieties of patriotism-the affective "symbolic patriotism" and the cognitive "uncritical patriotism"-might explain fans' reactions (support v. opposition) to anthem-linked athlete activism. The authors also consider whether fans' acceptance of nonactivist teammate allyship moderates patriotism influences on those reactions.FindingsUsing partial least squares structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM), the authors posit and show that fans' reactions to athlete activism are driven more strongly by uncritical patriotism than by symbolic patriotism. The authors also show that fans' acceptance of nonactivist teammate allyship significantly moderate the strength and direction of fans' reactions to athlete activism.Research limitations/implicationsThe authors contribute substantive, new knowledge into the sways of athlete activism, teammate allyship and fan patriotism within the sport world. By way of novel heterotrait-monotrait ratio of correlations, the authors show evidence of discriminant validities of symbolic patriotism and uncritical patriotism. Using PLS-SEM moderation tests, the authors also show that fans' acceptance of teammate allyship moderates the influences of these patriotism types differently.Originality/valueFew empirical studies to date have investigated sport fans' reactions to athletes' displays of social activism (e.g. taking a knee to protest racism).		[Smith, Brent; Ferrara, Carol] Emerson Coll, Dept Mkt Commun, Boston, MA 02116 USA; [Tryce, Stephanie A. A.] St Josephs Univ, Dept Mkt, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Smith, Brent] Emerson Coll, Dept Mkt Commun, Boston, MA 02116 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000947138800001	64	Article; Article		
J	Sung, Hojun; Pyun, Hyunwoong								Disaggregated Attendance Demand: Comparing Daily Ticket Purchasers and Season Ticket Holders in K-League 1								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	6			717	736		10.1177/15270025231160760			AUG 2023	2023	This study investigates differences in the preferences of daily ticket purchasers and season ticket holders, focusing on outcome uncertainty. Using unique game-level attendance data of both daily ticket purchasers and season ticket holders for every team in the Korean top-tier professional soccer league, we find heterogeneity in demand between daily ticket purchasers and season ticket holders with respect to outcome uncertainty, preference for home team success, team performance, geographical distance between competing teams, and weekend games. Our results suggest that season ticket holders do not care as much about their team's performance and outcome uncertainty as daily ticket purchasers do.		[Sung, Hojun] Incheon Natl Univ, Div Hlth & Kinesiol, Incheon, South Korea; [Sung, Hojun] Incheon Natl Univ, Sport Sci Inst, Incheon, South Korea; [Pyun, Hyunwoong] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Pyun, Hyunwoong] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, 2066 Seobu Ro, Suwon 16419, South Korea; [Pyun, Hyunwoong] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, 2066 Seobu Ro, Suwon 16419, South Korea								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000948386500001	55	Article; Article		
J	Nakamura, Masatoshi; Ishikawa, Tatsuro; Sato, Shigeru; Kiyono, Ryosuke; Yoshida, Riku; Morishita, Katsuyuki; Konrad, Andreas								Time-Course Changes in Dorsiflexion Range of Motion, Stretch Tolerance, and Shear Elastic Modulus for 20 Minutes of Hot Pack Application								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			175	179		10.52082/jssm.2023.175			JUN 2023	2023	The application of thermal agents via hot packs is a commonly utilized method. However, the time-course changes in the range of motion (ROM), stretch sensation, shear elastic modulus, and muscle temperature during hot pack application are not well understood. This study aimed to investigate the time-course changes in these variables during a 20-minute hot pack application. Eighteen healthy young men (21.1 +/- 0.2 years) participated in this study. We measured the dorsiflexion (DF) ROM, passive torque at DF ROM (an indicator of stretch tolerance), and shear elastic modulus (an indicator of muscle stiffness) of the medial gastrocnemius before and every 5 minutes during a 20-minute hot pack application. The results showed that hot pack application for >= 5 minutes significantly (p < 0.01) increased DF ROM (5 minutes: d = 0.48, 10 minutes: d = 0.59, 15 minutes: d = 0.73, 20 minutes: d = 0.88), passive torque at DF ROM (5 minutes: d = 0.71, 10 minutes: d = 0.71, 15 minutes: d = 0.82, 20 minutes: d = 0.91), and muscle temperature (5 minutes: d = 1.03, 10 minutes: d = 1.71, 15 minutes: d = 1.74, 20 minutes: d = 1.66). Additionally, the results showed that hot pack application for >= 5 minutes significantly (p < 0.05) decreased shear elastic modulus (5 minutes: d = 0.29, 10 minutes: d = 0.31, 15 minutes: d = 0.30, 20 minutes: d = 0.31). These results suggest that hot pack application for a minimum 5 minutes can increase ROM and subsequently decrease muscle stiffness.		[Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, 4490-9 Ozaki, Kanzaki, Saga 8428585, Japan; [Ishikawa, Tatsuro] Totsuka Kyoritsu Rehabil Hosp, Rehabil Unit, Izumi Ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Sato, Shigeru; Kiyono, Ryosuke; Yoshida, Riku] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Morishita, Katsuyuki] Josai Int Univ, Fac Social Work Studies, Dept Phys Therapy, Togane, Chiba, Japan; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, 4490-9 Ozaki, Kanzaki, Saga 8428585, Japan								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000949651100001	19	Article; Article		
J	Nose-Ogura, Sayaka; Yoshino, Osamu; Nakamura-Kamoto, Hiroe; Kanatani, Mayuko; Harada, Miyuki; Hiraike, Osamu; Saito, Shigeru; Fujii, Tomoyuki; Osuga, Yutaka								Medical issues for female athletes returning to competition after childbirth								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	2			147	153		10.1080/00913847.2023.2188395			MAR 3 2024	2024	BackgroundIn recent years, the number of athletes who aim to return to competition after childbirth has increased. However, few international reports have investigated complications during pregnancy, and changes in physical function after childbirth in many athletes.ObjectiveTo conduct a retrospective investigation of medical problems during pregnancy, and postpartum, in female athletes who aim to return to competition after childbirth, and to identify the barriers and facilitators for their return.MethodsA voluntary web-based survey was aimed at former female athletes who became pregnant with their first child and gave birth during their active sports career. The survey items included respondent background, their exercise activities during and after childbirth, perinatal complications, mode of delivery, symptoms and physical function after childbirth. The participants were divided into a vaginal delivery group and a cesarean section group.ResultsThree hundred and twenty-eight (29.1 +/- 5.1 years old) former athletes were included in the analysis, and about half reported undertaking exercise during pregnancy. The most common perinatal complication was anemia (27.4%). The appearance of any symptoms after childbirth, including low back pain (44.2%) and urinary incontinence (39.9%), was reported by 80.5%. The rate of urinary incontinence may be higher in the vaginal delivery than in the cesarean section group (p = 0.05). The most common physical decline after childbirth was in muscular strength, followed by speed and endurance.ConclusionAddressing pregnancy-associated anemia and managing low back pain is critical for athletes aiming to return to competition after childbirth. Additionally, interventions to reduce the risk for and treat urinary incontinence are important. In addition, in order to return to competition after childbirth, it is important to strengthen muscles, especially the lower limbs and trunk, as well as to create a training program that takes into account the sport/events.		[Nose-Ogura, Sayaka; Nakamura-Kamoto, Hiroe; Kanatani, Mayuko; Harada, Miyuki; Hiraike, Osamu; Osuga, Yutaka] Univ Tokyo, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Tokyo, Japan; [Yoshino, Osamu] Univ Yamanashi, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Yamanashi, Japan; [Saito, Shigeru] Univ Toyama, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Toyama, Japan; [Fujii, Tomoyuki] Toyama Sanno Hosp, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Tokyo, Japan; [Nose-Ogura, Sayaka] Univ Tokyo, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Tokyo, Japan								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000946867400001	27	Article; Article		
J	Benli, Merve Demir								Stress fracture of the manubrium sterni during parallel bar dips								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	5			492	496		10.1080/00913847.2023.2188047			SEP 3 2023	2023	ObjectiveStress fractures are common in highly active people, such as athletes or those in the military. They occur frequently in the lower extremities but sternal stress fractures are rare injuries.MethodsWe present a case of a young male who reported no pain and a 'click' sound from the front of the chest while training with parallel bar dips with a grip that was wider than shoulder-width apart.ResultsIn this case, radiological evaluation was the most helpful tool to diagnose manubrium sterni stress fracture. We advised him to rest but he started exercises immediately because he had to participate in a military camp after the injury. The patient was treated conservatively. The treatment consisted of activity modification and supplemental drugs.ConclusionWe report a case of manubrium stress fracture that developed in a young male military recruit.		[Benli, Merve Demir] Izmir CeleKatip bi Univ, Ataturk Educ & Res Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Inonu St,269 St 102, TR-35280 Izmir, Turkiye; [Benli, Merve Demir] Izmir CeleKatip bi Univ, Ataturk Educ & Res Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Inonu St,269 St 102, TR-35280 Izmir, Turkiye								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000945759500001	18	Article; Article		
J	Krumer, Alex; Moreno-Ternero, Juan D. D.								The Allocation of Additional Slots for the FIFA World Cup								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	7			831	850		10.1177/15270025231160757			OCT 2023	2023	How to select participants for a sports tournament when they are divided into different sets, and one should find a fair number of slots for each set? We propose to address this question by resorting to standard tools from the fair allocation literature. To frame our discussion, we focus on the increase in the number of participating teams in the FIFA World Cup. We explore the allocation of additional slots among continental confederations. We consider 10 different allocations. Based on our analysis, we can argue that the European soccer confederation (UEFA) has a solid basis to claim for additional slots.		[Krumer, Alex] Molde Univ Coll, Fac Business Adm & Social Sci, Britvegen 2, N-6402 Molde, Norway; [Moreno-Ternero, Juan D. D.] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Dept Econ, Seville, Spain; [Krumer, Alex] Molde Univ Coll, Fac Business Adm & Social Sci, Britvegen 2, N-6402 Molde, Norway								10							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000950460000001	42	Article; Article		
J	Beaudin, Laura								Cross-Quality Impacts of NCAA Division I Baseball and Softball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				25	8			932	964		10.1177/15270025231160759			DEC 2024	2024	Fifty years after Title IX, inequalities still exist between men's and women's sports. Most sport studies still fail to examine women's sports. This study explores the cross-quality impacts of Division I baseball and softball teams. The softball team win percentage is positively related to softball and baseball game attendance. However, models produce mixed results for the impact of the quality of the baseball team. Therefore, improving the strength of the softball team could increase softball and baseball game attendance, while improving the strength of the baseball team might only increase attendance at baseball games.		[Beaudin, Laura] Bryant Univ, Dept Econ, Smithfield, RI USA; [Beaudin, Laura] Bryant Univ, Dept Econ, 1150 Douglas Pike, Smithfield, RI 02917 USA; [Beaudin, Laura] Bryant Univ, Dept Econ, 1150 Douglas Pike, Smithfield, RI 02917 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000945933800001	39	Article; Article		
J	Tayfur, Abdulhamit; Sendil, Ates; Sezik, Atilla Cagatay; Jean-Francois, Kaux; Sancho, Igor; Le Sant, Guillaume; Donmez, Gurhan; Duman, Mehmet; Tayfur, Beyza; Pawson, Jessica; Uzlasir, Serkan; Miller, Stuart Charles; Screen, Hazel; Morrissey, Dylan								Self-reported bio-psycho-social factors partially distinguish patellar tendinopathy from other knee problems and explain patellar tendinopathy severity in jumping athletes: A case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				57	65		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.02.009			MAY 2023	2023	Objective: To determine what combinations of self-reported factors distinguish patellar tendinopathy (PT) from other knee problems, and explain PT severity variance.Design: Case-control study.Setting: Social media, private practice and National Health Service.Participants: An international sample of jumping athletes diagnosed with either PT (n = 132; 30.7 +/- 8.9 years; 80 males; VISA-P= 61.6 +/- 16.0) or another musculoskeletal knee condition (n = 89; 31.8 +/- 9.9 years; 47 males; VISA-P= 62.9 +/- 21.2) by a clinician in the last 6 months.Main outcome measures: We considered clinical diagnosis (case = having PT vs control = having other knee problems) as the dependent variable. Severity and sporting impact were defined by VISA-P and availability, respectively.Results: A model comprising seven factors distinguished PT from other knee problems; training duration (OR = 1.10), sport type (OR = 2.31), injured side (OR = 2.28), pain onset (OR = 1.97), morning pain (OR = 1.89), condition acceptability (OR = 0.39) and swelling (OR = 0.37). Sports-specific function (OR = 1.02) and player level (OR = 4.11) explained sporting availability. 44% of PT severity variance was explained by quality of life (0 = 0.32), sports-specific function (0 = 0.38) and age (0 =-0.17).Conclusion: Sports-specific, biomedical and psychological factors partially distinguish PT from other knee problems. Availability is mainly explained by sports-specific factors, while psychosocial factors impact on severity. Adding sports-specific and bio-psycho-social factors into assessments could help better iden-tification and management of jumping athletes with PT.(c) 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).		[Tayfur, Abdulhamit; Sancho, Igor; Tayfur, Beyza; Miller, Stuart Charles; Morrissey, Dylan] QMUL, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England; [Tayfur, Abdulhamit] Kirsehir Ahi Evran Univ, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Kirsehir, Turkiye; [Tayfur, Abdulhamit; Pawson, Jessica; Morrissey, Dylan] London Barts Hlth NHS Trust, London, England; [Sendil, Ates] Cyprus Hlth & Social Sci Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Morphou, Cyprus; [Sezik, Atilla Cagatay] Yuksek Ihtisas Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Ankara, Turkiye; [Jean-Francois, Kaux] Univ & Univ Hosp Liege, Phys Med & Sport Traumatol Dept, Liege, Belgium; [Sancho, Igor] Univ Deusto, Physiotherapy Dept, Bizkaia, Spain; [Le Sant, Guillaume] Univ Nantes, Movement Interact Performance, Nantes, France; [Donmez, Gurhan] Hacettepe Univ, Sch Med, Sports Med, Ankara, Turkiye; [Duman, Mehmet] Republ Turkey Minist Youth & Sports, Izmir, Turkiye; [Uzlasir, Serkan] Veli Univ, Sch Sports Sci & Technol, Nevsehir Haci Bektas, Nevsehir, Turkiye; [Screen, Hazel] QMUL, Sch Engn Mat Sci, London, England; [Morrissey, Dylan] Queen Mary Univ London, Mile End Hosp, William Harvey Res Inst, Barts London Sch Med & Dent,Sports & Exercise Med, Bancroft Rd, London E1 4DG, England								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000961943700001	60	Article; Article		
J	Lintumaeki, Petri; Koll, Oliver								Sport team identification: a social identity perspective comparing local and distant fans								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				25	1			1	17		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2022-0158			JAN 19 2024	2024	PurposeSupporting distant teams is a frequent phenomenon. Through the lens of the social identity theory, this research aims to examine differences between local and distant fans regarding drivers of team identification.Design/methodology/approachA multigroup structural equation model was employed. The data were collected through an online survey with 1,285 sports fans.FindingsTeam distinctiveness constitutes an important aspect fueling identification for all fans, whereas congruence between own and team personality is important for local and displaced fans only. Team prestige does not impact identification for either group.Practical implicationsTo build up a base of highly identified supporters, clubs should emphasize those aspects of team brands that fans consider distinctive. When targeting local fans, clubs should also focus on communicating the brand's unique personality aspects.Originality/valueThis is the first study that assesses the potential differences behind fans' social identification with local and distant teams.		[Lintumaeki, Petri] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Koll, Oliver] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Strateg Management Mkt & Tourism, Innsbruck, Austria; [Lintumaeki, Petri] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000943100100001	83	Article; Article		
J	Oudjedi, Adda; Allali, Abdelghani; Bekli, Aissa; Lounis, Mohamed; Ben Saad, Helmi; Boukoufa, Mohamed								Reported COVID-19 vaccines side effects among Algerian athletes: a comparison between inactivated virus, adenoviral vector, and mRNA COVID-19 vaccines								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	2			134	146		10.1080/00913847.2023.2186691			MAR 3 2024	2024	ObjectivesMany types of COVID19 vaccines are administered globally, yet there is not much evidence regarding their side effects among athletes. This study evaluated the selfreported postvaccination side effects of inactivated virus, adenoviral vector, and mRNA COVID19 vaccines among Algerian athletes.MethodsA cross-sectional survey-based study was carried out in Algeria between March 01 and 4 April 2022. The study used a validated questionnaire with twenty-five multiple-choice items covering the participants' anamnestic characteristics, post-vaccination side effects (their onset and duration), post-vaccination medical care, and risk factors.ResultsA total of 273 athletes completed the survey. Overall, (54.6%) of the athletes reported at least one local side effect, while (46.9%) reported at least one systemic side effect. These side effects were more prevalent among the adenoviral vector group compared to the inactivated virus and mRNA groups. The most common local side effect was injection site pain (29.9%), while Fever (30.8%) was the most prevalent systemic side effect. The age group of 31-40 years, allergy, previous infection with COVID-19, and the first dose of vaccines were associated with an increased risk of side effects for all groups of COVID-19 vaccines. Logistic regression analysis further revealed that compared to males, the incidence of reported side effects was significantly higher in females (odd ratio (OR) = 1.16; P = 0.015*) only for the adenoviral vector vaccine group. In addition, a significantly higher percentage of athletes group of high dynamic/moderate static or high dynamic /high static components suffered from post-vaccination side effects compared to the group of athletes with high dynamic/low static components (OR = 14.68 and 14.71; P < 0.001, respectively).ConclusionsThe adenoviral vector vaccines have the highest rate of side effects, followed by the inactivated virus and mRNA COVID-19 vaccines. COVID-19 vaccines were well-tolerated among Algerian athletes and there were no reports of serious side effects. Nevertheless, further long-term follow-up study with a larger sample size of athletes (from different types and sports categories) is warranted to establish the long-term safety of the COVID-19 vaccine.		[Oudjedi, Adda; Allali, Abdelghani] Univ Oum El Bouaghi, Inst Sci & Tech Phys & Sports Act, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Oum El Bouaghi, Algeria; [Bekli, Aissa] Hassiba Ben Bouali Univ, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Chlef, Algeria; [Lounis, Mohamed] Univ Ziane Achour, Fac Nat & Life Sci, Dept Agrovet Sci, Djelfa, Algeria; [Ben Saad, Helmi] Univ Sousse, Hosp Farhat HACHED Sousse, Fac Med Sousse, Res Lab,Heart Failure,LR12SP09, Sousse, Tunisia; [Boukoufa, Mohamed] Ibrahim Sultan Cheibout Univ Algiers 3, Inst Phys Educ & sports, Algiers, Algeria; [Oudjedi, Adda] Univ Oum El Bouaghi, Inst Sci & Tech Phys & Sports Act, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Oum El Bouaghi, Algeria								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000943495500001	69	Article; Article		
J	Custodio, Guilherme Augusto Paiva; Terroni, Erik Cesar; Martins, Jaqueline; Gobatto, Camila Felisbino; de Oliveira, Anamaria Siriani								Intra- and interrater reliability of belt-stabilized hand-held dynamometer in scapular protraction strength tests in individuals with shoulder pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				51	56		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.02.011			MAY 2023	2023	Purpose: Scapular protraction strength can be evaluated using a hand-held dynamometer (HHD). However, it is necessary to measure the reliability of HHD in individuals with shoulder pain and to minimize the limitations related to the evaluator and the low methodological quality cited in previous studies. This study assessed, with methodological enhancement, the intra-and interrater reliability of belt-stabilized HHD in the assessment of scapular protraction strength in individuals with shoulder pain.Method: Fifty individuals with unilateral symptoms of subacromial pain syndrome (20 men, aged 40.5 +/- 15.3 years) were evaluated in two sessions using the belt-stabilized HHD for maximum isometric strength of scapular protraction with the individual in the sitting and supine positions. Reliability values were obtained using the intraclass correlation coefficient with the standard error of measurement (SEM and %SEM) and the minimal detectable change (MDC).Results: The intra-and interrater HHD reliability were excellent for all measurements ranging from 0.88 to 0.96 (SEM = 2.0-4.0 kg; %SEM 12 to 17; MDC = 6-11 kg).Conclusion: Belt-stabilized HHD is reliable for the assessment of scapular protraction strength in in-dividuals with subacromial pain syndrome in both the sitting and supine positions. (c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Custodio, Guilherme Augusto Paiva; Terroni, Erik Cesar; Martins, Jaqueline; Gobatto, Camila Felisbino; de Oliveira, Anamaria Siriani] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Med Sch, Hlth Sci Dept, Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy Bldg, BR-14049900 Ribeira Preto, SP, Brazil; [de Oliveira, Anamaria Siriani] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Med Sch, Hlth Sci Dept, Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy Bldg, BR-14049900 Ribeira Preto, SP, Brazil								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000953779400001	32	Article; Article		
J	Sato, Nahoko; Nunome, Hiroyuki; Mizukami, Yuichi								Comparison of soccer instep kicking kinematics with and without elastic taping								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	1			53	64		10.1080/14763141.2023.2184419			JAN 2 2025	2025	The present study aimed to determine the effect of elastic taping on soccer instep kicking kinematics. Fifteen male university soccer players performed maximal instep kicking with and without Y-shaped elastic taping on the skin surface of the rectus femoris muscle. Their kicking motions were captured at 500 Hz using a motion capture system. The thickness of the rectus femoris muscle was measured using an ultrasound scanner prior to the kicking session. The thickness of the rectus femoris muscle and kicking leg kinematics in both the conditions were compared. The thickness of the rectus femoris muscle increased significantly after elastic tape application. In conjunction with this change, kinematic variables of the kicking leg, such as peak hip flexion angular velocity and knee and foot linear velocities significantly increased. However, there was no change in the knee extension angular and hip linear velocities. The elastic tape application caused deformation of the rectus femoris muscle and improvement of the instep kicking performance. The study findings provide a new insight on the effect of elastic taping on dynamic sports performance, such as in soccer instep kicking.		[Sato, Nahoko; Mizukami, Yuichi] Nagoya Gakuin Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Nagoya, Japan; [Nunome, Hiroyuki] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Sato, Nahoko] Nagoya Gakuin Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Nagoya, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000943410600001	41	Article; Article		
J	Watanabe, Kentaro; Koshino, Yuta; Kawahara, Daiki; Akimoto, Moeko; Mishina, Masumi; Nakagawa, Kosumi; Ishida, Tomoya; Kasahara, Satoshi; Samukawa, Mina; Tohyama, Harukazu								Kinesiophobia, self-reported ankle function, and sex are associated with perceived ankle instability in college club sports athletes with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				45	50		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.02.008			MAY 2023	2023	Objective: To investigate the association between sex, self-reported ankle function, pain intensity, kinesiophobia, and perceived ankle instability in athletes with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Design: Cross-Sectional Study. Setting: University. Participants: College club sports athletes with CAI (n = 42). Main outcome measures: Relationships with the Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT) score and the Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia-11 (TSK-11), the Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM), sex (0: male, 1: female), and ankle pain intensity by the Numeric Rating Scale were explored with multiple regression analysis. Results: The regression model explained 50.3% of the variance of the CAIT score (P < 0.001), and the TSK-11 score (B = -0.382, P = 0.002), the FAAM sports subscale score (B = 0.122, P = 0.038), and sex (B = -2.646, P = 0.031) were significant independent variables for the CAIT score (P < 0.001), while pain intensity was not significant (B = -0.182, P = 0.504). These results indicated that higher TSK-11 score, lower FAAM sports subscale score, and being female were related to lower CAIT score. Conclusions: Kinesiophobia related to perceived instability along with self-reported function and sex in athletes with CAI. Clinicians should assess the psychological aspects of athletes with CAI.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Watanabe, Kentaro; Koshino, Yuta; Kawahara, Daiki; Akimoto, Moeko; Mishina, Masumi; Nakagawa, Kosumi; Ishida, Tomoya; Kasahara, Satoshi; Samukawa, Mina; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Japan; [Koshino, Yuta] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, North 12,West 5,Kita Ku, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600812, Japan								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000953311600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Gan, Youteng; Wang, Ruohang; Wang, Xueyu; Li, Jiangang; Fan, Hongying								Who benefits more from mindfulness? A preliminary study exploring moderating effect of personality traits on competition anxiety in athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			390	400		10.1177/17479541231159171			FEB 2024	2024	Objective Mindfulness can help athletes better regulate their emotions, and analyzing personality traits may help identify those who would benefit more from psychological intervention activities to optimize subsequent training effects. This study sought to examine the effects of mindfulness training on athletes' competition anxiety and to consider the role of personality traits. Methods Fifty athletes (mean age = 21.87 years, SD = 1.62; 23 females and 27 males) were randomly assigned to a mindfulness group (n = 23), which received 8 weeks of mindfulness training, and a control group (n = 27) receiving no intervention. The athletes' personality traits, mindfulness level, and competition anxiety were measured according to the study plan before and after mindfulness training, and at an 8-week follow up. Results Compared with the control group, mindfulness training had a positive effect on the level of mindfulness and self-confidence in the mindfulness group, as well as a greater improvement in cognitive/somatic state anxiety. Improvements remained stable from the end of training to follow up. Additionally, athletes with high activity and high extraversion had more improvement in mindfulness levels and cognitive/somatic state anxiety, respectively, while athletes with low neuroticism demonstrated greater improvement in self-confidence. Conclusions Mindfulness training helps to reduce athletes' competition anxieties, and personality traits might affect the improvement effect to a certain extent, which provided a reference for optimizing mindfulness training and developing more personalized psychological training for athletes who display certain personality traits.		[Gan, Youteng; Wang, Ruohang; Wang, Xueyu; Li, Jiangang; Fan, Hongying] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Psychol, Xinxi Rd 48, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Fan, Hongying] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Psychol, Xinxi Rd 48, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000942891600001	45	Article; Article		
J	Donnelly, Jordan; Arthur, Rosie; Arthur, Calum; Cowan, Daryl								The indirect effects of transformational leadership in soccer programmes for socio-economically disadvantaged individuals: Need satisfaction as a mechanism towards personal development								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			141	151		10.1177/17479541231158693			FEB 2024	2024	Objectives The purpose of the present study was to examine the direct and indirect effects of coach transformational leadership (TL) on the current lives of socio-economically disadvantaged individuals within a sport-based education programme. Design Cross-sectional. Methods 159 participants completed questionnaires on the perceptions of their lead coaches' TL, perceived basic need satisfaction (autonomy, competence, relatedness) in relation to programme attendance, and feelings of resilience and life-satisfaction in their current life. Results PROCESS analysis revealed that all differentiated TL behaviours (but high-performance expectations) had a positive indirect effect on outcomes (resilience and life-satisfaction) via competence and a negative indirect effect on outcomes via relatedness. High-performance expectations demonstrated a direct effect on life satisfaction. Conclusion The results demonstrate how distinct coach transformational behaviours impact differently on the lives of disadvantaged individuals within a sports-based education programme. The differentiated conceptualisation of TL revealed nuanced results, furthering our understanding of how each TL interacts with the three basic psychological needs. Finally, our results demonstrate the significance competence may hold in transferring the effect of different transformational behaviours onto the everyday lives of disadvantaged individuals.		[Donnelly, Jordan; Cowan, Daryl] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Glasgow, Scotland; [Arthur, Rosie] Queen Margaret Univ, Div Psychol Sociol & Educ, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Arthur, Calum] Univ Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland; [Donnelly, Jordan] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Ayr Campus,Univ Ave, Ayr KA8 0SX, Scotland; [Donnelly, Jordan] Univ West Scotland, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Ayr Campus,Univ Ave, Ayr KA8 0SX, Scotland								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000942926300001	63	Article; Article		
J	Merz, Christian; Aarts, Maurice; Lehmann, Thomas; Seemann-Sinn, Alexander; Pluk, Arno; Naundorf, Falk								Force requirement profiles for swing to strength hold elements on still rings in men′s artistic gymnastics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			938	952		10.1080/14763141.2023.2185162			APR 3 2025	2025	Swing to strength hold elements are important for a top ranking on still rings, require a high level of upper body strength of the gymnasts and have not yet been scientifically investigated. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine force requirement profiles for these elements using a dynamometric measuring system. Two force sensors attached to the cables of each ring and synchronised with video recorded the forces exerted by the gymnast. For eight swing to strength hold elements (Uprise backward to support scale straddled, Uprise backward to swallow, Uprise backward to cross, Honma to cross, Uprise backward to support scale, Kip to cross, Back kip to swallow and Uprise backward to inverted cross), the variables maximal force (F-max), minimal force (F-min), time over F-hold (t(1-3)), rate of maximal force development (RFD) and impulse (p) were analysed. Honma to cross shows the highest force requirements (Median: F-max = 120.4% BW, F-min = 109.8% BW, t(1-3) = 882 ms, RFD = 143.93% BW/s, p = 9.85% BWs) whereas back kip to swallow shows the least (F-max = 102.3% BW, RFD = 34.99% BW/s and p = 0.84% BW/s). The biomechanical demand profiles can be used to provide feedback to coaches and gymnasts. In future research, they should be extended with kinematic and electromyographic data.		[Merz, Christian; Lehmann, Thomas; Seemann-Sinn, Alexander; Naundorf, Falk] Inst Appl Training Sci, Dept Strength Power & Tech Sports, Leipzig, Germany; [Aarts, Maurice; Pluk, Arno] InnoSportLabs Hertogenbosch Innovat Gymnast, Innovat Gymnast, sHertogenbosch, Netherlands; [Merz, Christian] Inst Appl Training Sci, Dept Strength Power & Tech Sports, Leipzig, Germany								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000941702400001	27	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Qingshan; Hautier, Christophe A.; Bonis, Chloe; Trama, Robin								Reliability of Soft Tissue Vibration Measurement and Number of Steps Demanded during Treadmill Running								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			166	174		10.52082/jssm.2023.166			MAR 2023	2023	The present study aims to determine the test-retest reliability of the input signal (INPUT) of foot impact and soft tissue vibration (STV) of the lower limb muscles during treadmill running. als at constant velocity (10 km/h) within two days. The INPUT and STV of gastrocnemius medialis (GAS) and vastus lateralis (VL) were extracted from 100 steps measured by three triaxial accelerometers. The Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC) was calculated to determine the Intra-trial and Inter-day reliability of the different variables. Intra-trial reliability results indicated that most of the INPUT and GAS STV parameters, except for damping coefficient and setting time, have good to excellent reliability (0.75 < ICC < 0.9) from the beginning of the run (10 steps) to the end. In contrast, only 4 VL STV parameters showed good reliability. Furthermore, inter-trial reliability measured on day one showed that the number of reliable parameters reduced, especially for VL STV, and more steps were required (20 < steps < 80) to achieve good reliability. Inter-day reliability results showed that the present results show that the measurement of the foot impact same session.		[Zhang, Qingshan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Qingshan; Hautier, Christophe A.; Bonis, Chloe] Univ Lyon, UCBL1, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, EA 7424, Villeurbanne, France; [Trama, Robin] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Zhang, Qingshan] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Athlet Performance, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Qingshan] Univ Lyon, UCBL1, Lab Interuniv Biol Motr, EA 7424, Villeurbanne, France								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000944339500001	32	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Bragada, Jose A.; Nevill, Alan M.; Marinho, Daniel A.								Race Analysis and Determination of Stroke Frequency - Stroke Length Combinations during the 50-M Freestyle Event								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			156	165		10.52082/jssm.2023.156			MAR 2023	2023	The aims of this study were to: (1) analyze and compare the stroke kinematics between junior and senior elite male swimmers in every section of the race during the 50-m freestyle event, and; (2) identify stroke frequency (SF)-stroke length (SL) combinations on swim speed independently for junior and senior swimmers in each section of the 50-m freestyle event. Eighty-six junior swim-mers (2019) and 95 seniors (2021) competing in the 50-m long course meter LEN Championships were analyzed. The t-test in-dependent samples (p <= 0.05) were used to compare juniors and seniors. The SF and SL combinations on swim speed were ex-plored using three-way ANOVAs. Senior swimmers were signif-icantly faster in the 50-m race than juniors (p < 0.001). Speed presented the largest significant difference (p < 0.001) in section S0-15 m (start until the 15th meter mark) being seniors fastest. Both junior and senior swimmers revealed a significant categori-zation (p < 0.001) by stroke length and stroke frequency in each race section. It was possible to model several SF-SL combina-tions for seniors and juniors in each section. The fastest swim speed in each section, for seniors and juniors independently, was achieved by a SF-SL combination that may not be the fastest SF or the longest SL. Coaches and swimmers must be aware that de-spite the 50-m event being an all-out bout, several SF-SL combi-nations were observed (independently for juniors and seniors), and they differ between race sections.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Bragada, Jose A.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sports Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Bragada, Jose A.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Nevill, Alan M.] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Wolverhampton WV1 1LY, England; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sports Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sports Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000944351700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Shih, Yo; Ho, Kai-Yu								Lower Extremity Support Moment and Distribution of Joint Moments during Sloped Running								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			111	116		10.52082/jssm.2023.111			MAR 2023	2023	The existing literature often exhibits inconsistent findings regarding lower extremity kinetics during sloped running, likely due to high variability of typical individual joint moments between and within runners. A better understanding of the kinetic effects of sloped running may be achieved by comparing the support moment and joint contributions among level, upslope, and downslope running. Twenty recreational runners (10 females) ran on three different conditions (level, 6 degrees upslope and 6 degrees downslope). Total support moment and joint contributions of the hip, knee, and ankle joints were compared among the three slope conditions using a one-way ANOVA with repeated measures and post-hoc pairwise comparisons. Our results showed that peak total support moment was highest during upslope running and was lowest during downslope running. The joint contribution to total support moment was similar in upslope and level running where the ankle joint has highest contribution followed by the knee and hip joints. During downslope running, highest knee joint contribution but least ankle and hip joint contributions were found when compared to level and upslope running.		[Shih, Yo] Univ Oklahoma, Hlth Sci Ctr, Dept Rehabil Sci, Oklahoma City, OK USA; [Ho, Kai-Yu] Univ Nevada, Dept Phys Therapy, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Ho, Kai-Yu] Univ Nevada, Dept Phys Therapy, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000939234600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Lester, Matthew; Peeling, Peter; Girard, Olivier; Murphy, Alistair; Armstrong, Cameron; Reid, Machar								From The Ground Up: Expert Perceptions of Lower Limb Activity Monitoring in Tennis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			133	141		10.52082/jssm.2023.133			MAR 2023	2023	Understanding on-court movement in tennis allows for enhanced preparation strategies to improve player readiness and performance. Here, we explore expert physical preparation coaches' perceptions of elite training strategies for preparation and performance in tennis, with special reference to lower limb activity. Thirteen world renowned tennis strength and conditioning coaches were interviewed in a semi-structured method that explored four key topic areas of physical preparation for tennis: i) the physical demands; ii) load monitoring practice; iii) the direction of ground reaction forces application during match-play; and iv) the application of strength and conditioning for tennis. Three higher-order themes emerged from these discussions: i) off-court training for tennis should be specific to the demands of the sport, ii) the mechanical understanding of tennis lags our physiological approach, and iii) our understanding of the lower limb's contribution to tennis performance is limited. These findings provide valuable insights into the importance of improving our knowledge relevant to the mechanical demands of tennis movement, whilst highlighting important practical considerations from leading tennis conditioning experts.		[Lester, Matthew; Peeling, Peter; Girard, Olivier; Armstrong, Cameron; Reid, Machar] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, Australia; [Lester, Matthew; Murphy, Alistair; Armstrong, Cameron; Reid, Machar] Tennis Australia, Melbourne, Australia; [Peeling, Peter] Western Australian Inst Sport, Perth, Australia; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, Australia								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000940210200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Heering, Theresa; Lander, Natalie; Barnett, Lisa M.; Duncan, Michael J.								What is needed to reduce the risk of anterior cruciate ligament injuries in children?- Hearing from experts								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				37	44		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.02.007			MAY 2023	2023	Objective: Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries are an emerging health problem in children. Acknowledging considerable gaps in knowledge, the aim of this study was to examine the current knowledge on childhood ACL injury, and to explore risk assessment and reduction strategies, with ex-perts in the research community. Design: Qualitative study; semi-structured expert interviews. Methods: Interviews with seven international, multidisciplinary academic experts were conducted from February until June 2022. A thematic analysis approach organized verbatim quotes into themes using Nvivo Software.Results: Gaps in knowledge on the actual injury mechanism, and influence of physical activity behav-iours, constrain targeted risk assessment and reduction strategies in childhood ACL injuries. Strategies to examine and reduce the risk of ACL injury included: examining an athletes' whole-body performance, moving from constraint (e.g., squat) to less constraint (e.g., single-leg) tasks, making assessments into children's context, building a movement repertoire at young age, performing risk reduction programs, multiple sports, and prioritising rest.Conclusion: Research is urgently warranted on the actual injury mechanism, reasons for ACL injuries in children, and potential risk factors to update risk assessment and reduction strategies. Further, educating stakeholders on risk reduction strategies could be essential to address the increasing occurrence of childhood ACL injuries.(c) 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).		[Heering, Theresa; Duncan, Michael J.] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, England; [Heering, Theresa; Barnett, Lisa M.] Deakin Univ, Sch Hlth & Social Dev, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Heering, Theresa; Barnett, Lisa M.] Deakin Univ, Inst Hlth Transformat, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Lander, Natalie] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Australia; [Barnett, Lisa M.] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr IPAN, Geelong, Australia; [Heering, Theresa] Priory St, Coventry CV1 5FB, England; [Heering, Theresa] Priory St, Coventry CV1 5FB, England								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000952364000001	45	Article; Article		
J	Jastifer, James R.								Intrinsic muscles of the foot: Anatomy, function, rehabilitation								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				27	36		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.02.005			MAY 2023	2023	The intrinsic muscles of the foot are underappreciated structures in evaluating and treating lower ex-tremity dysfunction. These muscles play a crucial role in the proper function of the foot during sport activities. The functions of these muscles are not generally well understood. Intrinsic dysfunction can lead to a variety of problems. Therefore, it is important for clinicians to have a good understanding of the anatomy and function of the intrinsic foot muscles in order to properly diagnose and treat foot injuries in patients. Published research on the rehabilitation of the intrinsic muscles provides insight into the function as well as benefits of treatment. The purpose of this review is to summarize the published research on the anatomy, function, contribution to pathology, as well as rehabilitation options for the intrinsic muscles of the foot.(c) 2023 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Jastifer, James R.] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Homer Stryker MD Sch Med, Kalamazoo, MI 49007 USA; [Jastifer, James R.] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Mech & Aeronaut Engn, Kalamazoo, MI 49007 USA; [Jastifer, James R.] Ascens Borgess Orthoped, 2490 S 11th St, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Jastifer, James R.] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Homer Stryker MD Sch Med, Kalamazoo, MI 49007 USA; [Jastifer, James R.] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Mech & Aeronaut Engn, Kalamazoo, MI 49007 USA; [Jastifer, James R.] Ascens Borgess Orthoped, 2490 S 11th St, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000952713800001	65	Article; Article		
J	Walsh, A.; Seifert, L.; Button, C.; Vial, S.; Croft, J.								The effect of fatigue on climbing fluidity and hand movements								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	10			2971	2983		10.1080/14763141.2023.2182703			OCT 3 2025	2025	In rock climbing, climbers use their arms to regulate their posture on the wall, which can lead to localised muscle fatigue. Evidence shows fatigue is the primary cause of falls, but little is known about how fatigue specifically affects climbing rhythm and hand movements. The present study examined climbing fluidity and hand movements on an indoor climbing wall before and after a specific fatiguing protocol. Seventeen climbers completed three repetitions of a challenging climbing route (21 on Ewbank scale) with different levels of localised arm fatigue. Climbers' movements were tracked using 3D motion capture, and their hand actions assessed using notational analysis. Seventy markers were used to create 15 rigid body segments and the participants' centre of mass. The global entropy index was calculated on the path of the participants' centre of mass. Climbers fell more often when fatigued, but there were no significant differences in hip jerk or global entropy index when fatigued. No significant differences were found between the number of exploratory or performatory hand movements with different amounts of fatigue. The results suggest that localised arm fatigue affects a climber's ability to prevent themselves from falling, but it does not specifically affect their fluidity.		[Walsh, A.; Vial, S.] Murdoch Univ, Hlth Futures Inst, Ctr Hlth Ageing, Perth, Australia; [Walsh, A.] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, Australia; [Seifert, L.] Univ Rouen, Fac Sci Sport, Rouen, France; [Button, C.] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Croft, J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Walsh, A.] Murdoch Univ, Hlth Futures Inst, Ctr Hlth Ageing, Perth, Australia; [Walsh, A.] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, Australia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000941127800001	42	Article; Article		
J	Rush, Justin L.; Norte, Grant E.								Hamstrings fatigue does not improve quadriceps function in individuals with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				20	26		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.02.006			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: Our purpose was to investigate the immediate and prolonged effects of hamstrings fatigue on quadriceps neuromuscular function in individuals with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) and matched uninjured controls. Design: Cross-Sectional. Setting: Laboratory.Participants: 16 participants with a history of ACLR and 16 uninjured controls. Main outcome measures: Quadriceps peak torque (PT), central activation ratio (CAR), early (RTD100) and late (RTD200) rate of torque development, vastus medialis and lateralis electromyographic (EMG) activity, and hamstrings-to-quadriceps co-activation assessed at baseline. Outcomes were evaluated pre-fatigue (PRE), immediately post-fatigue (POST), and 30min post-fatigue (POST30). The involved limbs of in-dividuals with ACLR were assessed and control limbs were matched based on limb dominance. Results: Individuals with ACLR demonstrated lesser quadriceps PT (p = 0.004), CAR (p < 0.001), RTD100 (p = 0.042), RTD200 (p = 0.028), and vastus medialis EMG (p = 0.040) than controls, regardless of time. Quadriceps CAR (p < 0.001) and RTD200 (p < 0.001) decreased at POST and POST30, whereas RTD100 (p < 0.001) decreased at POST, regardless of group.Conclusions: The observed reductions in quadriceps neuromuscular function may suggest involvement of central fatigue mechanisms, which should be explored prior to recommending hamstrings fatigue as a therapeutic intervention.(c) 2023 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Rush, Justin L.; Norte, Grant E.] Univ Toledo, Dept Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Toledo, OH USA; [Rush, Justin L.] Univ Toledo, Dept Exercise & Rehabil Sci, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Rush, Justin L.] Univ Toledo, Dept Exercise & Rehabil Sci, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000951126000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Kocak, Umut Z.; Knurr, Keith A.; Cobian, Daniel G.; Heiderscheit, Bryan C.								Beyond peak torque: Longitudinal analysis of angle-specific isokinetic knee in athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				61				11	19		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.02.004			MAY 2023	2023	Objectives: To investigate changes in angle-specific knee extensor torque between limbs from 4 to 12 months post-anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction(ACLR) in Division I collegiate athletes at two different isokinetic velocities. Design: Case-series study. Setting: Laboratory-based. Participants: Isokinetic knee flexion and extension assessments of 17 athletes (11 female) at 4, 8, and 12 months after ACLR with bone-patellar tendon-bone autograft were evaluated. Main outcome measures: Angle-specific curve analyses were performed using statistical parametric mapping for torque data obtained between 14 and 101 degrees at 60 degrees/s and 240 degrees/s velocities. Results: At 60 degrees/s, knee extensor torque of the operated limb increased between 4 and 8 months (18 -101 degrees,p < 0.001), 4 and 12 months (28-101 degrees,p < 0.001), and 8 and 12 months post-surgery (62 -70 degrees,p = 0.002, and 79-90 degrees,p < 0.001). Knee extensor torque was lower in the operated limb compared to the non-operated limb at 4 (47-97 degrees,p < 0.001) and 8 months (65-90 degrees,p < 0.001) for 60 degrees/s, at 4 (21 -89 degrees,p < 0.001) and 8 months (50-77 degrees,p < 0.001) for 240 degrees/s, with no between-limb differences at 12 months post-ACLR for both velocities. Conclusions: Operated limb knee extensor torque increased throughout the majority of knee range of motion from 4 to 12 months post-ACLR at both isokinetic velocities, while non-operated limb torque only improved through a reduced arc of motion in greater knee flexion angles. (c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kocak, Umut Z.; Cobian, Daniel G.; Heiderscheit, Bryan C.] Izmir Katip Celebi Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Izmir, Turkiye; [Kocak, Umut Z.; Knurr, Keith A.; Cobian, Daniel G.; Heiderscheit, Bryan C.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, Madison, WI USA; [Kocak, Umut Z.; Knurr, Keith A.; Cobian, Daniel G.; Heiderscheit, Bryan C.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Badger Athlet Performance Program, Madison, WI USA; [Kocak, Umut Z.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Sch & Publ Hlth, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, 1685 Highland Ave, Madison, WI 53705 USA; [Kocak, Umut Z.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Sch & Publ Hlth, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, 1685 Highland Ave, Madison, WI 53705 USA								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000954827400001	36	Article; Article		
J	Acs, Balazs; Kovacs, Roland; Toka, Laszlo								A career handbook for professional soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			444	458		10.1177/17479541231155598			FEB 2024	2024	The success of a soccer player is not entirely pre-destined by their physical ability, talent, and motivation. There are certain decisions along the way that greatly affect the arc of their career: which skills to develop, and which club to sign a contract with. In this paper, we identify the optimal strategic choices toward multiple potential aims a soccer player can have and we seek the knowledge of what made the greatest soccer players in terms of those decisions. Our two main data sources are Transfermarkt and Sofifa from which we collect data for the period between 2007 and 2021 with 29,231 players. We perform time series analysis on skill features of soccer players, and network analysis of the players' acquaintance graph, i.e., a graph that indicates whether two given players have ever been teammates before. Finally, we create key performance indicators to check the differences in certain features, i.e., individual player skills and connectivity attributes, between top-tier and the rest of the players, and use dynamic time warping for validation. The outcome of this work is a recommendation tool that helps players to find what needs to be improved in order to achieve their desired goals. The source code and the career advisor tool for soccer players that we have implemented are available online.		[Acs, Balazs; Kovacs, Roland; Toka, Laszlo] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Fac Elect Engn & Informat, Dept Telecommun & Media Informat, MTA BME Informat Syst Res Grp, Budapest, Hungary; [Toka, Laszlo] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Magyar Tudosok Krt 2, H-1117 Budapest, Hungary								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000936280400001	33	Article; Article		
J	Hoskins, Aaron B.								Calculating expected win percentage of an Indian Premier League team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			379	389		10.1177/17479541231156904			FEB 2024	2024	The Indian Premier League is the most prestigious cricket league globally. There are significant finances in terms of both team ownership and player salaries. It is, therefore, essential to understanding if a team's record is due to luck (good or bad) or if a team's record is due to the team's overall performance. The research presented here is motivated by how to accurately predict a team's winning percentage in the Indian Premier League based on underlying statistics. A similar analysis has been done in other sports, mainly based on the concept of the Pythagorean expectation. This research derives a similar model for the IPL based on historical data. However, the structure of a match in the Indian Premier League is fundamentally different than the structure of games in other sports. As a result of this structural difference, this study creates additional models using both least absolute shrinkage and selection operator and stepwise regression to identify variables that are good predictors for calculating the expected winning percentage. These models compare favorably to the Pythagorean expectation model. This article presents a model combining both the determined variables and Pythagorean expectation.		[Hoskins, Aaron B.] Calif State Univ Fresno, Mech Engn Dept, 2320 E San Ramon Ave,MS EE 94, Fresno, CA 93740 USA; [Hoskins, Aaron B.] Calif State Univ Fresno, Mech Engn Dept, 2320 E San Ramon Ave,MS EE 94, Fresno, CA 93740 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000934122000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Pedragosa, Vera; Biscaia, Rui; Naylor, Michael E.; Hedlund, David P.; Dickson, Geoff								Member identity in fitness centres and its consequences: an examination of members and managers' perspectives								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			638	660		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2022-0159			OCT 11 2023	2023	PurposeThe purpose of this study was to examine the effect of member identity and its dimensions of power, urgency, external legitimacy, internal legitimacy and interest, on satisfaction and behavioural intentions in fitness centres.Design/methodology/approachTwo studies were designed. In Study 1, data were collected from fitness centre members (n = 225) and structural equation modelling used to examine the dimensions of fitness centre member identity and its subsequent effect on satisfaction and behavioural intentions. In Study 2, interviews exploring member identity were conducted with members (n = 9) and managers (n = 7) and a content analysis contrasted their perceptions of power, urgency, internal legitimacy, external legitimacy and interest.FindingsThe results of Study 1 support the multidimensional construct of member identity and its positive influence on both satisfaction and behavioural intentions. Satisfaction mediated the relationship between member identity and behavioural intentions. In Study 2, managers and members expressed similar perceptions of the member identity dimensions: low power; urgency is issue-dependent; external legitimacy is recognized; members are perceived as legitimate; and most members exhibit high interest in their membership.Originality/valueThis study provides a deeper understanding of how member identity contributes to long-term relationships between members and fitness centres. It extends the body of consumer behaviour literature in the context of fitness centres.		[Pedragosa, Vera] Univ Autonoma Lisboa, Dept Ciencias Econ & Empresariais, Lisbon, Portugal; [Biscaia, Rui] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Naylor, Michael E.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Sport & Recreat, Auckland, New Zealand; [Hedlund, David P.] St Johns Univ, Div Sport Management, Queens, NY USA; [Dickson, Geoff] La Trobe Univ, Melbourne, Australia; [Pedragosa, Vera] Univ Autonoma Lisboa, Dept Ciencias Econ & Empresariais, Lisbon, Portugal								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000936714600001	83	Article; Article		
J	Zawadzki, Krystian M.; Potrykus, Marcin								Stock Markets' Reactions to the Announcement of the Hosts. An Event Study in the Analysis of Large Sporting Events in the Years 1976-2032								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	6			759	800		10.1177/15270025231156051			AUG 2023	2023	This study attempts to estimate the impact of the announcements of hosts of large sporting events on domestic stock markets. The research problem is to establish a connection between the uniqueness of a sporting event and investors' beliefs through stock price behavior. Using appropriate estimation windows, 13 different sporting events classified as large, including mega and major events, were tested. The obtained results show that, in principle, one day after the announcement of the host of a large sporting event, an average positive reaction of 0.22% is observed on national stock exchanges. The analyzed events were also classified as being neutral for capital markets or generating positive or negative reactions when the host country is announced to the public.		[Zawadzki, Krystian M.; Potrykus, Marcin] Gdansk Univ Technol, Fac Management & Econ, Dept Finance, Gdansk, Poland; [Zawadzki, Krystian M.] Gdansk Univ Technol, Fac Management & Econ, Dept Finance, Narutowicza 11-12, PL-80233 Gdansk, Poland; [Zawadzki, Krystian M.] Gdansk Univ Technol, Fac Management & Econ, Dept Finance, Gdansk, Poland; [Zawadzki, Krystian M.] Gdansk Univ Technol, Fac Management & Econ, Dept Finance, Narutowicza 11-12, PL-80233 Gdansk, Poland								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000936661100001	124	Article; Article		
J	Dunican, Ian C.; Perry, Emma; Maisey, Gemma; Nesci, Elena; Roberts, Spencer								Sleep hygiene education for improving sleep in ultra-marathon swimmers: Guidance for coaches and swimmers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1018	1024		10.1177/17479541231152196			AUG 2023	2023	Sleep for recovery is an essential factor for performance in athletes. One such group is recreational ultra-marathon swimmers (>10km). We aimed to compare measures of sleep before and after a sleep hygiene education intervention during a 16-week training programme. Using a prospective study design, the experiment was conducted in two phases (pre- and post-intervention), whereby pre- and post-intervention data were collected for 42 nights after the sleep hygiene education. This study had 24 masters' swimmers (n = 13 females), aged 39 +/- 11 years, and body mass index (BMI) of 26 +/- 3 kg/m(2) during a training squad for an ocean ultra-marathon swimmer (19.7 km) in Perth, Western Australia. Objective measures of sleep were obtained from a wrist activity monitor, the Readiband (TM) (Fatigue Science Inc., Canada). Participants underwent a 2-hour sleep hygiene education session. Generalised linear mixed models were fitted to examine relationships between predictor variables and sleep responses. Sleep onset and offset increased by 12 minutes post-intervention (p < 0.001). For nights before morning training, sleep onset increased by 12 minutes and offset by 24 minutes post-intervention. Females increased sleep onset by 18 minutes and delayed sleep offset by 12 minutes sleep (p < 0.05) post-intervention. The sleep hygiene education was insufficient in making meaningful improvements to measures of sleep. Individual sleep hygiene education and continuous reinforcement of sleep for recovery during a training programme may be required to observe improvements. Coaches should aim to design training schedules to minimise the impact on swimmer's sleep opportunity and swimmers need to involve family in the planning of rest periods during a training programme.		[Dunican, Ian C.] Univ Western Australia, Ctr Sleep Sci, Sch Human Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Dunican, Ian C.; Perry, Emma; Maisey, Gemma] Melius Consulting & Sleep4Performance, Mt Hawthorn, WA, Australia; [Nesci, Elena] eSWIM, Subiaco, WA, Australia; [Roberts, Spencer] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Dunican, Ian C.] Univ Western Australia, Ctr Sleep Sci, Sch Human Sci, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia; [Dunican, Ian C.] Univ Western Australia, Ctr Sleep Sci, Sch Human Sci, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000930835400001	29	Article; Article		
J	Daehlin, Torstein E.; Kennedy, Michael D.; Rouhani, Hossein; Chiu, Loren Z. F.								Effect of incline versus block heel-raise exercise on foot muscle strength and vertical jump performance - an 11-week randomized resistance training study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			889	905		10.1080/14763141.2023.2176353			APR 3 2025	2025	Strengthening the toe flexors and ankle plantar flexors may improve vertical jump performance. One exercise that may be effective for concurrently strengthening these muscles is heel-raises performed on an incline. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of incline versus conventional (block) heel-raise exercise on hallux and II-V digit flexor strength, vertical jump performance, and ankle plantar flexor strength. Thirty-three female volleyball players were randomly allocated to perform incline (n = 17) or block (n = 16) heel-raise exercise for 11-weeks. Participants' toe flexor strength, countermovement jump, approach jump, and ankle plantar flexor strength were assessed before, after 7 weeks, and after 11 weeks of exercise. There were no significant time-by-group interactions for any variable (p > 0.05). However, both groups improved their hallux flexor strength (Delta 0.27 +/- 0.50 N center dot kg(-1); p < 0.05), and vertical countermovement (Delta 1.2 +/- 2.3 cm; p < 0.05) and approach (Delta 1.9 +/- 2.6 cm; p < 0.05) jump height from pre- to post-test. No changes were observed in the ankle plantar flexor or II-V digit flexor strength (n > 0.05). Both incline and conventional heel-raises improve toe flexor strength. Practitioners seeking to improve individuals' foot function may consider incorporating incline or block heel-raises.		[Daehlin, Torstein E.; Chiu, Loren Z. F.] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Neuromusculoskeletal Mech Res Program, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Kennedy, Michael D.] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Athlete Hlth Lab, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Rouhani, Hossein] Univ Alberta, Dept Mech Engn, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Daehlin, Torstein E.] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Neuromusculoskeletal Mech Res Program, Edmonton, AB, Canada								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000931012600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Chanel; Sewry, Nicola; Nolte, Kim; Swanevelder, Sonja; Engelke, Nina; van Kamp, Calvin; Jordaan, Esme; Schwellnus, Martin								Do five screening tools identify the same number of runners who require pre-exercise medical clearance? SAFER XXXIV								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	1			77	83		10.1080/00913847.2023.2176161			JAN 2 2024	2024	ObjectivesCurrently, there are five international screening tools that are recommended to identify individuals who require pre-exercise medical clearance to reduce the risk of medical encounters during exercise. Therefore, the aim was to determine the percentage of race entrants who are advised to obtain pre-exercise medical clearance and the observed agreement between these five different international pre-exercise medical screening tools.MethodsIn all, 76,654 race entrants from the Two Oceans Marathon (2012-2015) that completed an online pre-race screening questionnaire. Five pre-exercise medical screening tools (American Heart Association (AHA), pre-2015 American College of Sport Medicine (ACSM), post-2015 ACSM, Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q), and the European Association of Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation (EACPR)) were retrospectively applied to all participants. The % (95%CI) race entrants requiring medical clearance identified by each tool and the observed agreement between tools (%) was determined.ResultsThe % entrants requiring medical clearance varied from 6.7% to 33.9% between the five tools: EACPR (33.9%; 33.5-34.3); pre-2015 ACSM (33.9%; 33.5-34.3); PAR-Q (23.2%; 22.9-23.6); AHA (10.0%; 9.7-10.2); post-2015 ACSM (6.7%; 6.5-6.9). The observed agreement was highest between the pre-2015 ACSM and EACPR (35.4%), for pre-2015 ACSM and PAR-Q (24.8%), PAR-Q and EACPR (24.8%), and lowest between the post-2015 ACSM and AHA (4.1%).ConclusionThe percentage of race entrants identified to seek medical clearance (and observed agreement) varied considerably between pre-exercise medical screening tools. Further research should determine which tool has the best predictive ability in identifying those at higher risk of medical encounters during exercise.		[Smith, Chanel; Nolte, Kim] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Div Biokinet & Sports Sci, Pretoria, South Africa; [Smith, Chanel; Sewry, Nicola; Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Fac Hlth Sci, Pretoria, South Africa; [Sewry, Nicola; Schwellnus, Martin] Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [Swanevelder, Sonja; Jordaan, Esme] South African Med Res Council, Biostat Unit, Cape Town, South Africa; [Engelke, Nina; van Kamp, Calvin] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Stat & Actuarial Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] Univ Western Cape, Stat & Populat Studies Dept, Cape Town, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport & Exercise Med, Rondebosch, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Fac Hlth Sci, Burnett St, ZA-0020 Hatfield, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Fac Hlth Sci, Burnett St, ZA-0020 Hatfield, South Africa								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000932076500001	16	Article; Article		
J	Altarriba-Bartes, Albert; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi; Pena, Javier; Alarcon-Palacios, Fernando; Sixtos-Meliton, Luis A.; Matabosch-Pijuan, Marti; Gimenez-Martinez, Enric; Beato, Marco; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio								The effectiveness of two comprehensive recovery protocols on performance and physiological measures in elite soccer players: A parallel group-randomized trial								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			171	181		10.1177/17479541231155585			FEB 2024	2024	Elite soccer players consistently report using several recovery methods after practices and games. However, it is unclear how their subsequent performance could be enhanced using broad protocols. The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of two different comprehensive recovery protocols in physiological, neuromuscular, and perceptual outcomes. Eighteen Mexican National Team players (19.56 +/- 0.62 years) were recruited. Using a randomized parallel group design, players followed one of two recovery protocols: (a) carbohydrate and protein shake, foam roller, cold-water immersion, and tart cherry juice concentrate (n = 9) or (b) carbohydrate and protein shake, stretching, and intermittent cold-water immersion (n = 9) following the completion of an unofficial game and the day after. Muscular creatine kinase, countermovement jump, hamstring maximal voluntary contraction, perceived recovery, and muscle soreness were assessed before, immediately after, and 20-44-68 h post-game. Significant effects (set at rho <= 0.05) of time were present in both interventions. Muscular creatine kinase was normalized entirely at 68 h post-game, while neuromuscular and perceptual outcomes were homogenized at 44 h. No statistically significant effects between protocols were found. Still, the interaction effects showed changes only in the group using protocol (a) at post-game and 20 h after in neuromuscular and muscle soreness. There were large correlations between muscular creatine kinase and accelerations, decelerations, sprints, and high-speed running distances. In conclusion, the interventions are equally effective for improving physiological, neuromuscular, and perceptual outcomes. Thus, elite soccer players may benefit from different combinations of methods after practices or games to obtain positive effects on recovery after them.		[Altarriba-Bartes, Albert; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi; Pena, Javier] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport Performance Anal Res Grp SPARG, Vic, Barcelona, Spain; [Altarriba-Bartes, Albert; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi; Pena, Javier] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia, UVic UCC Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Vic, Barcelona, Spain; [Alarcon-Palacios, Fernando; Sixtos-Meliton, Luis A.; Matabosch-Pijuan, Marti; Gimenez-Martinez, Enric] Federac Mexicana Futbol Asociac AC, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; [Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Ipswich, England; [Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Vitoria, Spain; [Altarriba-Bartes, Albert] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, C Antoni Vila Canellas s-n, Vic 08500, Barcelona, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000929940500001	53	Article; Article		
J	Lyng, Jasmine; Morissette, Marc; Ogborn, Dan; Leiter, Jeff; MacDonald, Peter; Longstaffe, Robert								The impact of COVID-19 on national hockey league players' return to play								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	1			84	88		10.1080/00913847.2023.2177080			JAN 2 2024	2024	ObjectiveEvaluate the on-ice performance and return to play (RTP) rate following COVID-19 for National Hockey League (NHL) players during the 2020-21 season.MethodsPlayers with COVID-19 during the abbreviated 2020-21 season were identified using publicly accessible online sources. Demographics and on-ice metrics were accessed using the NHL's online statistics website. The length of time, rate of RTP, and games missed due to COVID-19 were analyzed. Primary outcomes included average time on ice (TOI) per game (TOI/G), average TOI per shift (TOI/S), and points per game (PPG) compared at different timepoints including pre- and post-COVID-19.ResultsA total of 73 players (47 forwards, 18 defensemen, 8 goalies) had a documented COVID-19 diagnosis during the abbreviated 2020-21 season. Players missed an average of 5.6 games (14.7 days) due to COVID-19. The post-COVID-19 RTP rate was 97.3%, including playoffs. No differences were found in TOI/G between the pre- (15.7 +/- 3.9 min) and post-COVID-19 (15.8 +/- 3.4 min, p = 0.874) or in the first (15.8 +/- 4.0 min) and second week (15.9 +/- 3.8 min, p = 0.925) returned. TOI/shift did not change from pre- (45.6 +/- 5.3 sec) to post-COVID-19 (46.7 +/- 4.6 sec, p = 0.035) or in first (46.2 +/- 5.4 sec) and second week post-COVID-19 (46.2 +/- 4.8 sec, p = .854). No differences were identified for PPG between career, pre-COVID-19, and post-COVID-19 (0.44 vs 0.38 vs 0.41; p = 0.274).ConclusionRTP post-COVID was markedly high for NHL players. While the effects of COVID-19 on specific physiological measures remains to be elucidated, this study found NHL players do not have reduced performance following COVID-19.		[Lyng, Jasmine; Ogborn, Dan; MacDonald, Peter; Longstaffe, Robert] Univ Manitoba, Max Rady Coll Med, Dept Surg, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Morissette, Marc; Ogborn, Dan; MacDonald, Peter; Longstaffe, Robert] Pan Clin Fdn, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Ogborn, Dan] Univ Manitoba, Coll Rehabil Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Leiter, Jeff] Rink Training Ctr, Oak Bluff, MB, Canada; [Lyng, Jasmine] Univ Manitoba, Dept Orthoped Surg, AD4-820 Sherbrook St, Winnipeg, MB R3A 1R9, Canada; [Lyng, Jasmine] Univ Manitoba, Dept Orthoped Surg, AD4-820 Sherbrook St, Winnipeg, MB R3A 1R9, Canada								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000929068200001	29	Article; Article		
J	Veiga, Santiago; Qiu, Xiao; Trinidad, Alfonso; Suz, Pablo; Bazuelo, Bruno; Navarro, Enrique								Kinematic changes in the undulatory kicking during underwater swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			906	920		10.1080/14763141.2023.2177192			APR 3 2025	2025	The contribution to total race distances of underwater undulatory swimming (UUS) is increasing at the elite level. However, little is known about the technical modifications during underwater swimming. In the present research, the aim was to compare the kinematic characteristics of competitive swimmers between the first and last kick of UUS. Fifty-four national level swimmers (26 males and 28 females) performed 25 m maximal efforts from a push start, and two sequential video cameras captured the underwater segment. Kicking parameters and segmental kinematics were calculated by means of two-dimensional direct linear transformation algorithms. Dolphin kick performance showed a clear impairment in velocity (eta(2) : 0.65), but changes on kicking parameters depended on the swimmer's gender, with males decreasing kicking amplitude (eta(2) : 0.25) and females decreasing kicking frequency (eta(2) : 0.18) in the last kick. Decline in kicking performance seemed to be more related to the swimmers' body configuration when approaching the water surface (greater trunk inclination and maximal body amplitude in sagittal plane) than to technical modifications in the dolphin kick movement (no changes in the joints range of movement except the hip). Swimmers should control their vertical body amplitude at the end of underwater sections to minimise the decrease in kicking performance.		[Veiga, Santiago; Qiu, Xiao] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Qiu, Xiao] Univ Kassel, Inst Sports & Sport Sci, Kassel, Germany; [Trinidad, Alfonso] Univ Europea, Dept Educ & Humanidades, Grp Invest AquaLab, Madrid, Spain; [Suz, Pablo] Univ San Pablo CEU, Fac Med, Madrid, Spain; [Bazuelo, Bruno] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sports Biomech GIBD, Valencia, Spain; [Navarro, Enrique] Univ Politecn Madrid, Hlth & Human Performance Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000929026400001	52	Article; Article		
J	Pombo, Andre; Cordovil, Rita; Rodrigues, Luis Paulo; Moreira, Ana Catarina; Borrego, Rute; Machado, Margarida; Costa, Vania; Almeida, Ana; Tavares, Ana Sofia; de Sa, Cristina Cardoso; Luz, Carlos								Effect of Motor Competence and Health-Related Fitness in the Prevention of Metabolic Syndrome Risk Factors								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			110	117		10.1080/02701367.2022.2158998			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: In the last decades we have seen an increase in sedentary behaviors and a decrease in physical activity in children when compared to past generations. This lifestyle is commonly associated with the development of clustering risk factors that define metabolic syndrome (MetS). Knowing that motor competence (MC) development can influence lifelong physical activity habits, it is reasonable to assume that children's MC will directly link to clustered cardiometabolic health outcomes. The aim of this study was to analyze the role of MC in MetS risk factors.Methods: Seventy children with a mean age of 7.49 (SD = 1.28) years were evaluated on motor competence (MCA-Motor Competence Assessment instrument), cardiovascular fitness (PACER test), upper body strength (UBS; handgrip), and the components of MetS, hypertriglyceridemia, hypertension, abdominal obesity, low concentration of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and high fasting blood glucose. The composite value of MetS was calculated according to Burns et al. (2017). Multiple standard regressions were performed to explore the effect of different variables on MetS. Motor competence and health-related fitness (cardiovascular fitness and relative upper body strength) were used as independent variables (predictors) and MetS as dependent variable.Results: Overall, the results showed that motor competence (beta = -.072; p < .05) is a significant predictor and this model explained 7,1% of the variance in MetS.Conclusion: Although more studies are needed, our results indicate that MC seems to have a positive role in children's health markers.		[Pombo, Andre; Cordovil, Rita] Univ Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal; [Pombo, Andre; Moreira, Ana Catarina; Borrego, Rute; Machado, Margarida; Costa, Vania; Almeida, Ana; Tavares, Ana Sofia; Luz, Carlos] Inst Politecn Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal; [Pombo, Andre; Rodrigues, Luis Paulo; Luz, Carlos] Res Ctr Sports Performance, Recreat, Innovat & Technol SPRINT, Lisbon, Portugal; [Rodrigues, Luis Paulo] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Viana do castelo, Portugal; [Rodrigues, Luis Paulo] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [de Sa, Cristina Cardoso] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Pombo, Andre] Univ Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal; [Pombo, Andre] Inst Politecn Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal; [Pombo, Andre] Res Ctr Sports Performance, Recreat, Innovat & Technol SPRINT, Lisbon, Portugal								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000931304400001	74	Article; Article		
J	McQuilliam, Stephen J.; Clark, David R.; Erskine, Robert M.; Brownlee, Thomas E.								Physical testing and strength and conditioning practices differ between coaches working in academy and first team soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1045	1055		10.1177/17479541231155108			AUG 2023	2023	Scientific guidelines exist regarding strength and conditioning (S&C) best practice, for both first team and academy level soccer. However, it is not known if these research-informed guidelines are followed in such applied settings. The aim of this study was to investigate current S&C practice in first team and academy level (men's and women's) soccer, in multiple countries/continents. A total of 170 participants, who were involved with the delivery of S&C support at their soccer club, completed a comprehensive survey, describing their training methods. Data were analysed using Pearson's chi-square test of independence and independent t-tests. Statistical significance was set to p < 0.05. A greater proportion of academy compared to first team coaches assessed acceleration/sprint (92% vs. 83%, p=0.026), jump (95% vs. 83%, p=0.023) and change of direction performance (77% vs. 61%, p=0.031). The weekly training structure differed between groups, particularly within women's squads, with women's academy coaches reporting the lowest session frequency of all groups (1.59 +/- 0.62 session per week, 44 +/- 17 min duration). A greater proportion of academy (54%) versus first team (35%) coaches prioritised bodyweight training (p=0.031), despite a similar distribution of movement patterns trained. Overall, 44% S&C coaches reported using training intensities below strength training guidelines (>= 80% 1RM). To conclude, there were many differences in S&C practice between S&C coaches working with first team and academy squads but particularly noteworthy was the greater proportion of academy coaches prioritising bodyweight training compared to first team coaches, which may limit physical development in academy players.		[McQuilliam, Stephen J.; Clark, David R.; Erskine, Robert M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England; [Erskine, Robert M.] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Brownlee, Thomas E.] Univ Birmingham, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, England; [McQuilliam, Stephen J.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, England								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000929470000001	48	Article; Article		
J	Low, Timothy C.; Mendis, M. Dilani; Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich; Hides, Julie A.; Leung, Felix T.								The association between size and symmetry of the lumbar multifidus muscle, and injuries in adolescent rugby union players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				98	103		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.02.001			MAR 2023	2023	Objectives: This study aimed to investigate the association between size and symmetry of the lumbar multifidus muscle, and season injuries in adolescent rugby union players.Design: Prospective longitudinal cohort study.Setting: Pre-season assessment of the size (cross-sectional area) of the lumbar multifidus (L2-5) muscles using ultrasound imaging.Participants: Seventy-one adolescent rugby union players (aged 15-18 years).Main outcome measures: "Time-loss" injuries were recorded during the season and divided into four injury regions (head and neck, upper limb, trunk and lower limb).Results: Thirty-nine injuries were recorded during the season. Players who sustained an upper limb injury during the season had smaller lumbar multifidus muscles at the L5 vertebral level (effect size = 0.7, p = 0.03) and asymmetry in muscle size at the L2 (p = 0.05) and L5 (p = 0.04) in the pre-season. There was no association between size of the lumbar multifidus muscle and other injuries (p > 0.05).Conclusion: Lumbar multifidus muscle size and symmetry may impact lumbopelvic control which may increase the risk of sustaining an upper limb injury during rugby union. Future research should aim to identify whether lumbar multifidus muscle size is a modifiable risk factor for rugby union injuries to guide future intervention programs.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Low, Timothy C.; Mendis, M. Dilani; Hides, Julie A.; Leung, Felix T.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Discipline Physiotherapy, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Mendis, M. Dilani; Hides, Julie A.; Leung, Felix T.] Griffith Univ, Menzies Hlth Inst Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Clin Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Leung, Felix T.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Discipline Physiotherapy, 170 Kessels Rd, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Leung, Felix T.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Discipline Physiotherapy, 170 Kessels Rd, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000932618000001	35	Article; Article		
J	O'Connor, Siobhan; Reilly, Rebecca; Hegedus, Agnes; Whyte, Enda; Moran, Kieran; Porter, Leigh								Current Concussion Knowledge, Beliefs, Education, and Management Practices Among Irish Post-Primary PE Teachers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			118	126		10.1080/02701367.2022.2158999			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Physical education (PE) teachers play an important role in concussion recognition and management in schools both in an academic and activity based setting. This study aimed to identify Irish post-primary PE teachers' concussion knowledge, beliefs, education and management practices. Methods: An anonymous online survey, adapted to the Irish context from the validated BAKPAC-TEACH, was completed by 128 PE teachers (female = 74/123; 60.2%; male = 49/123; 39.8%, 36.1 +/- 10.9 years), representing 4% of registered PE teachers in Ireland. Results: PE teachers reported 3.5 +/- 4.7 students suffer with a sports-related concussion in their classroom annually and 43.9% previously had a student sustain a concussion during their PE class. Most received concussion education (58.6%), largely provided by sporting bodies. They frequently identified dizziness (93.0%) and headaches (92.2%) as concussion symptoms, but less commonly emotional (more emotional = 36.5%, nervous or anxious = 33.6%, sadness = 28.9%) or sleep (35.2%) symptoms. All PE teachers knew that a concussion requires immediate removal from a game/practice. PE teachers demonstrated less perceived knowledge and confidence relating to academic adjustments and return to learn criteria. Just 31.3% reported their school facilitates academic adjustments. Conclusion: Tailored concussion education addressing knowledge gaps highlighted in this study should be developed. A concussion policy and an academic support team in each school should be established and widely publicised to enhance the support of concussed students in returning to school.		[O'Connor, Siobhan; Reilly, Rebecca; Hegedus, Agnes; Whyte, Enda; Moran, Kieran; Porter, Leigh] Dublin City Univ, Dublin, Ireland; [O'Connor, Siobhan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Ctr Injury Prevent & Performance Athlet Therapy &, Dublin 9, Ireland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000922544400001	40	Article; Article		
J	Blagus, Rok; Leskosek, Bojan; Okrslar, Luka; Vrecek, Nace; Debevec, Tadej								Utility of video analysis and expert modelling for technique development in novice sport climbers: A randomized controlled study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			355	367		10.1177/17479541231152548			FEB 2024	2024	Sport climbing is a multifaceted sport that also requires appropriate techniques to optimize movements. As augmented feedback is known to facilitate motor learning, we investigated the utility of adding video analysis and expert modelling to standardized verbal feedback for the acquisition of three climbing-specific techniques (drop knee, heel hook and high step). Twenty-six novice climbers (12 women) completed two testing sessions before and after a training intervention that consisted of three coached climbing sessions targeting the three techniques. Participants were randomly assigned to a control group, which solely received standardized verbal feedback or an experimental group that additionally received standardized video analysis and expert modelling using the Dartfish tablet application. Video recordings were subsequently evaluated by two climbing experts on a 7-point scale. The expert scores were higher in the experimental than in the control group for the high step (causal total effect (CTE) 0.38, 95% confidence interval (CI) [0.06, 0.68]). Improvements for the drop knee (CTE = 0.12, 95% CI [-0.24, 0.48]) and heel hook (CTE = -0.05, 95% CI [-0.42, 0.31]) were similar in both groups. For the drop knee, we, however, observed a positive causal direct effect (CDE = 0.38, 95% CI [0.07, 0.68]), which was comparable to that observed for the high step but also a negative causal mediator effect via the perceived difficulty (CME = -0.26, 95% CI [-0.51, -0.04]). Compared to verbal feedback solely, the addition of video analysis and expert modelling might facilitate the acquisition of certain climbing techniques, such as high step, in novice climbers.		[Blagus, Rok; Leskosek, Bojan; Okrslar, Luka; Vrecek, Nace; Debevec, Tadej] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sports, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Blagus, Rok] Univ Ljubljana, Inst Biostat & Med Informat, Fac Med, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Blagus, Rok] Univ Primorska, Fac Math, Nat Sci & Informat Technol, Koper, Slovenia; [Debevec, Tadej] Jozef Stefan Inst, Dept Automat Biocybernet & Robot, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Debevec, Tadej] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sports, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Debevec, Tadej] Jozef Stefan Inst, Dept Automat Biocybernet & Robot, Ljubljana, Slovenia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000925200000001	52	Article; Article		
J	Zanin, Marco; Ranaweera, Jayamini; Darrall-Jones, Joshua; Roe, Gregory								Differences and variability of physical and technical characteristics among rugby union small-sided games performed within a preseason								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			268	282		10.1177/17479541231153387			FEB 2024	2024	This study aimed to investigate the differences in physical and technical characteristics among three specific rugby union small-sided games (SSG) and to examine the variability of these characteristics over three weeks within a preseason of a professional rugby union club. Eighteen backs and 22 forwards were recruited for the study. The three SSG designs were: backs only (SSG-B), forwards only (SSG-F) and both backs and forwards (SSG-BF). Physical characteristics were quantified using external (e.g., total distance covered [m center dot min(-1)]) and internal (i.e., Stagno's training impulse [AU center dot min(-1)]) load measures. Technical characteristics were quantified using the number of rucks, successful passes, unsuccessful passes, line breaks and tries per minute. The SSG-BF produced a greater high speed (>61%) running distance covered in comparison with SSG-B (1.97 vs. 1.32 m center dot min(-1)) and SSG-F (1.26 vs. 0.94 m center dot min(-1)), and more successful passes (9.47 vs. 9.36 count center dot min(-1)) and line breaks (0.98 vs. 0.65 count center dot min(-1)) than SSG-F. Conversely, all the other physical and technical characteristics were higher in SSG-B and SSG-F. All the physical and technical characteristics, except high speed (>61%) distance covered in forwards and unsuccessful passes and tries per minute, changed over days showing either a linear or quadratic pattern. Based on these findings, practitioners may implement position-specific SSG (i.e., SSG-B and SSG-F) to expose players to greater physical and technical characteristics. Furthermore, if SSGs were to be repeated across multiple days, practitioners should be aware of the possible variability in physical and technical characteristics due to potential adaptations to the constraints or the onset of fatigue.		[Zanin, Marco; Ranaweera, Jayamini; Darrall-Jones, Joshua; Roe, Gregory] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res Ctr, Leeds, England; [Ranaweera, Jayamini; Roe, Gregory] Bath Rugby Football Club, Performance Dept, Bath, England; [Zanin, Marco] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res Ctr, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3HF, England; [Zanin, Marco] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res Ctr, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3HF, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000925185800001	56	Article; Article		
J	Arede, Jorge; Fernandes, John F. T.; Singh, Harjiv; Bishop, Chris; Romero-Rodriguez, Dani; Madruga Parera, Marc								Assessing asymmetries and predicting performance in semiprofessional soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			192	201		10.1177/17479541221146220			FEB 2024	2024	This study aimed to (a) detail the interlimb asymmetries during multi-directional jumping, change of direction and for ankle dorsiflexion range of motion and (b) determine how asymmetries and performance in multi-directional jumping and ankle dorsiflexion predict performance during change of direction tests. Twenty-two male semi-professional players completed a testing session which consisted of unilateral ankle dorsiflexion range of motion, vertical and horizontal unilateral and lateral countermovement jumps and left and right leg 90 degrees (COD90(L&R)) and 180 degrees (COD180(L&R)) change of direction tests. No significant differences between limbs were observed for any of the variables (P > 0.05), though vertical countermovement jump (11.1% +/- 9.1%) and dorsiflexion range of motion (10.5% +/- 10.3%) imbalances were greater than those during lateral (2.7% +/- 2.2%) and horizontal (2.2% +/- 1.9%) countermovement jumps, and 90 degrees (3.6% +/- 3.1%) and 180 degrees change of direction (2.9% +/- 3.6%). Subjects presented 3.4 +/- 1.4 real asymmetries (i.e., one greater than the coefficient of variation) across the tests, with all subjects having at least one real asymmetry. Stepwise linear regression models explained a reasonable amount of variance in change of direction180(R) (70%), COD90(L) (57%), COD90(R) (39%), COD180(L) (23%) using the countermovement jump and dorsiflexion range of motion variables (P < 0.05). The current findings indicate that semi-professional soccer players have real bilateral asymmetries (particularly in countermovement jump and dorsiflexion range of motion), which practitioners should be cognizant of. Given the prediction value, change of direction performance can be predicted using performance and asymmetries during multi-directional jumping and ankle dorsiflexion.		[Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Vila Real, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Sch Educ, Viseu, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Higher Inst Educ Sci Douro, Dept Sports, Penafiel, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Europea Madrid, Sch Sports Sci, Campus Villaviciosa Odon, Villaviciosa De Odon, Spain; [Arede, Jorge] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Fernandes, John F. T.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Singh, Harjiv] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, Las Vegas, NV USA; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London, England; [Romero-Rodriguez, Dani; Madruga Parera, Marc] Univ Int Catalunya, Phys Therapy Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga Parera, Marc] FC Barcelona Second Team, Sport Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga Parera, Marc] Return Play & Sports Training Ctr, reQ, Barcelona, Spain; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Quinta Prados Apartado 202, P-5001801 Vila Real, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Quinta Prados Apartado 202, P-5001801 Vila Real, Portugal								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000925167400001	47	Article; Article		
J	Rodriguez-Sanz, Jacobo; Llurda-Almuzara, Luis; Lopez-de-Celis, Carlos; Romani-Sanchez, Sergi; Labata-Lezaun, Noe; Canet-Vintro, Max; Caballero-Martinez, Ivan; Perez-Bellmunt, Albert								Peroneal muscle activity during stable and unstable load exercises. A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				84	90		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.01.010			MAR 2023	2023	Objective: To evaluate the muscle activity of the peroneus longus during the execution of different un-stable load exercises compared to stable load exercises.Design: Cross-sectional study.Setting: Functional Anatomy Laboratory.Participants: 28 healthy athletes.Main outcome measures: Surface electromyography (sEMG), unstable load (water tank), Stable Load (Sandbag), type of exercise (Isometric single leg stance, single-leg Romanian deadlift, front rack forward lunge and lateral lunge).Results: The repeated measures ANOVA revealed significant Group * Time interaction in Root Mean Square (RMS) (F = 51.307, P < 0.001, s2 = 0.70). In the between-group analysis there were statistically significant differences in RMS isometric single leg stance in favor to unstable load (P < 0.001, s2 = 0.07). In the within-group analysis of RMS statistically significant differences were found in the stable load group between isometric single leg stance and single-leg Romanian deadlift (P < 0.001, s2 = 0.05).Conclusions: Single leg stance exercise with unstable load showed higher peroneus muscle activity than stable load. However, no peroneus muscle activity differences were found between unstable and stable loads for single-leg Romanian deadlift, frontal rack forward lunge and lateral lunge. Single-leg Romanian deadlift with stable load showed higher peroneus muscle activity than isometric single leg stance with stable load.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rodriguez-Sanz, Jacobo; Lopez-de-Celis, Carlos; Labata-Lezaun, Noe; Canet-Vintro, Max; Caballero-Martinez, Ivan; Perez-Bellmunt, Albert] Univ Int Catalunya, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Carrer Josep Trueta 08195, Sant Cugat Del Valles 08195, Barcelona, Spain; [Rodriguez-Sanz, Jacobo; Llurda-Almuzara, Luis; Lopez-de-Celis, Carlos; Labata-Lezaun, Noe; Canet-Vintro, Max; Caballero-Martinez, Ivan; Perez-Bellmunt, Albert] ACTIUM Anat Grp, Carrer Josep Trueta 08195, Sant Cugat Del Valles 08195, Barcelona, Spain; [Llurda-Almuzara, Luis] European Univ Gasteiz EUNEIZ, Fac Hlth Sci, Physiotherapy Dept, C La Biosfera Ibilbidea 6, Gasteiz 01013, Alava, Spain; [Lopez-de-Celis, Carlos] Fundacio Inst Univ Recerca Atencio Primaria Salut, Barcelona, Spain; [Romani-Sanchez, Sergi] Movement Lab BCN, Barcelona, Spain; [Lopez-de-Celis, Carlos] Univ Int Catalunya, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Carrer Josep Trueta 08195, Sant Cugat Del Valles 08195, Barcelona, Spain								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000935300500001	62	Article; Article		
J	Coventry, Molly; Timler, Amanda; Mosler, Andrea B.; Russell, Kylie; Travers, Mervyn; Oam, Lauren Mitchell; Murphy, Myles C.								?I lied a little bit.? A qualitative study exploring the perspectives of elite Australian athletes on self-reported data								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				91	97		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.01.009			MAR 2023	2023	Objectives: Explore the perceptions and experiences of elite Australian athletes' engagement with reporting data in surveillance systems.Design: Qualitative Descriptive.Setting: Semi-structured interviews conducted using Zoom. Participants: We recruited 13 elite Australian athletes competing at a national or international level for semi-structured interviews. Main outcome measures: Audio recordings were transcribed using DeScript, checked for errors and imported into QSR NVIVO. Thematic analysis using QSR NVIVO was used to determine key themes from transcripts.Results: Thematic analysis uncovered four key themes: 'the paradox of reporting', 'data for data's sake', 'eyes on reporting' and 'athlete friendly reporting'.Conclusion: Athletes perceived reporting as a burden and the athlete management system presented numerous technological difficulties which led to athletes to backfill data entries and compromise data accuracy. Athletes had little knowledge on how their data was used and managed and often received minimal feedback from staff accessing the data. Athletes were unaware of who has access to their data, which is of concern as sensitive information may be collected and athletes may be underage. As a result, many athletes chose to report dishonest data to avoid their performance being questioned.(c) 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Coventry, Molly; Travers, Mervyn; Murphy, Myles C.] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Hlth Sci & Physiotherapy, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Timler, Amanda] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Inst Hlth Res, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Mosler, Andrea B.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Russell, Kylie] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Med, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Travers, Mervyn] Curtin Univ, Sch Physiotherapy & Exercise Sci, Bentley, WA, Australia; [Oam, Lauren Mitchell] Royal Perth Hosp, Radiol Dept, Perth, WA, Australia; [Murphy, Myles C.] Edith Cowan Univ, Nutr & Hlth Innovat Res Inst, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Murphy, Myles C.] Edith Cowan Univ, Nutr & Hlth Innovat Res Inst, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000963888700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Terrell, Sara L.; Ficquette, Preston								Exploring Training Strategies to Optimize Court Performance in Older Pickleball Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				45	1			1	12		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000703			FEB 2023	2023	Pickleball is one of the fastest growing racket sports in the United States because of its high social engagement and ability to facilitate physical and emotional well-being. Although participation trends indicate the sport appeals to an array of ages and abilities, the highest purported participant demographic is 55 years and older. In spite of its rising popularity, there is limited strength and conditioning research exploring training strategies for pickleball athletes. Therefore, this article details how pickleball is played, the sport's movement and physiological demands, and injury risks. An example training program targeting the older pickleball athlete is provided.		[Terrell, Sara L.] Florida Southern Coll, Exercise Sci Program, Lakeland, FL 33801 USA; [Ficquette, Preston] Jumpstart Performance Training, Clermont, FL USA; [Terrell, Sara L.] Florida Southern Coll, Exercise Sci Program, Lakeland, FL 33801 USA								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000925825500001	36	Article; Article		
J	Ni, Ying-Lien; Kuo, Che-Chun; Chang, Wen Hsin; Wu, Chia-Huei; Chen, Lung Hung								How advertising claims affect sports consumers' purchase intention of badminton rackets? The role of regulatory fit								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			623	637		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2022-0052			OCT 11 2023	2023	PurposeRegulatory focus theory suggests that regulatory fit influences individuals' decisions. However, little is known regarding the effect of regulatory fit on sports consumers' purchase intention. Accordingly, the authors extend the concept of regulatory fit to the sports context to understand how advertising claims affect amateur badminton players' purchase intention of badminton rackets.Design/methodology/approachA total of 200 amateur badminton players participated in this study. These participants were randomly assigned to the promotion-prime advertising claim or prevention-prime advertising claim condition.FindingsAuthors' findings demonstrate that the experience fit between personal regulatory focus in the sports context and advertising claims induces higher purchase intention. This finding corresponds with expectations based on regulatory focus theory.Originality/valueThe present study extends and strengthens knowledge of personal regulatory focus in the sports context and thus shows marketers how to communicate with target customers to precisely sell sports products using the regulatory fit strategy.		[Ni, Ying-Lien] Natl Chiayi Univ, Dept Phys Educ Hlth & Recreat, Chiayi, Taiwan; [Kuo, Che-Chun] Tunghai Univ, Sci Sr Wellness & Sports Sci, Taichung, Taiwan; [Chang, Wen Hsin] Natl Taipei Univ Technol, Phys Educ Off, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wu, Chia-Huei] Univ Leeds, Leeds Univ Business Sch, Leeds, England; [Wu, Chia-Huei; Chen, Lung Hung] China Med Univ, China Med Univ Hosp, Dept Med Res, Taichung, Taiwan; [Chen, Lung Hung] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Doctoral Program Transnatl Sport Management & Inno, Kweishan, Taiwan; [Chen, Lung Hung] China Med Univ, China Med Univ Hosp, Dept Med Res, Taichung, Taiwan; [Chen, Lung Hung] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Doctoral Program Transnatl Sport Management & Inno, Kweishan, Taiwan								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000922574900001	31	Article; Article		
J	Pascual, Alex; Font, Roger; Pascual, Xavier; Lago-Penas, Carlos								Evolution of match performance parameters in elite men's handball 2012-2022								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			301	305		10.1177/17479541221142418			FEB 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to quantify longitudinal changes in the games of the 6 Men's European Handball Championship (EHC) celebrated between 2012 and 2022. A total of 563 match observations were examined. Specifically, the study contained the Number of Goals, Number of Attacks, Number of Shots, Number of Saves, Offensive Efficacy (Number of Goals/Number of Attacks x 100) and Defensive Efficacy (100 - Offensive Efficacy of the Opponent). Data were examined using the Kruskal-Wallis test and linear regression analysis. Results suggest that the number of goals remained relatively constant from 2012 to 2022. However, the number of attacks, shots, saves and defensive efficacy decreased, while offensive efficacy increased. These findings can contribute to a better understanding of how handball is evolving from a structural or tactical viewpoint.		[Pascual, Alex] Univ Politecn Cataluna, Barcelona, Spain; [Font, Roger] Univ Barcelona UB, Barcelona, Spain; [Font, Roger] Pompeu Fabra Univ UPF, Sch Hlth Sci, Tecnocampus, Mataro, Spain; [Pascual, Xavier] CSDinamo Bucarest, Bucharest, Romania; [Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Campus Univ S-N, Pontevedra, Spain								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000923966700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Hu, Tiao; Cottingham, Michael; Shapiro, Deborah; Lee, Don								Promote the "wow": (mis)representation, perception and reception of media promotion on wheelchair rugby								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	3			470	484		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2022-0060			JUL 31 2023	2023	PurposeThis phenomenological study aims to explore how media promote and should promote wheelchair rugby.Design/methodology/approachSemi-structured interviews were conducted with 31 athletes at National Wheelchair Rugby Championship. In using a reflective thematical analysis approach, three themes were identified - media coverage: the promise of an unknown quantity; the battle of inspiration and athleticism; and leverage marketing and promote the "wow".FindingsLacking fair representation from media resulting in the perception and reception gap between the general public and spectators was identified and explained by most of the athletes. Besides urging increased coverage with a shifting focus on athleticism, the important role of marketing was highlighted.Originality/valueIn short, the "wow" factor of the sport is its aggressiveness which can be its bestselling feature and used by stakeholders for maximum impact when marketing wheelchair rugby.		[Hu, Tiao; Cottingham, Michael; Lee, Don] Univ Houston, Houston, TX 77004 USA; [Shapiro, Deborah] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA USA; [Hu, Tiao] Univ Houston, Houston, TX 77004 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000921608700001	58	Article; Article		
J	Dierkes, Katja; Roesel, Inka; Giel, Katrin E.; Thiel, Ansgar; Sudeck, Gorden								Does Exercise Modality Matter Affectively? Contrasting Type and Sequence of Moderate-Intensity Continuous Training Versus High-Intensity Interval Training in a Randomized Within-Subject Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			84	97		10.52082/jssm.2023.84			MAR 2023	2023	Over the past two decades, affective determinants of exercise behavior have received increasing attention in research on health promotion and prevention. To date, however, little is known about changes in affective exercise determinants during multi-week training programs in insufficiently active individuals. This applies in particular to the currently discussed advantages and disadvantages of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) compared with moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT) with regard to the affective experience of these two training types (e.g., reduced monotony vs. more aversive response during HIIT), which is important for exercise adherence. Referring to the Affect and Health Behavior Framework (AHBF), this within-subject study investigated changes in affective exercise determinants as a function of training type and sequence consisting of MICT and HIIT. Forty insufficiently active healthy adults (Mage = 27 +/- 6 years; 72% women) underwent two 6-week training periods in a randomized sequence (MICT HIIT vs. HIIT MICT) within 15 weeks. Pre-post questionnaires and in-situ measurements, during and after a standardized vigorous-intensity continuous exercise session (VICE), were used to assess affective attitude, intrinsic motivation, in-task affective valence, as well as post-exercise enjoyment. These four affect-related constructs were collected before, between, and after the two training periods. Mixed models revealed a significant effect for training sequence (p = 0.011) but not for training type (p = 0.045; non-significant after Bonferroni alpha adjustment) on changes in in-task affective valence in favor of the MICT HIIT sequence. Moreover, no significant training type or sequence effects were found for the constructs of reflective processing: exercise enjoyment, affective attitude, and intrinsic motivation. Therefore, individual-based training recommendations should consider the effects of variety and training sequence to develop tailored interventions that lead to more positive affective experiences in particular during exercise and promote the maintenance of exercise behavior in previously inactive individuals.		[Dierkes, Katja; Thiel, Ansgar; Sudeck, Gorden] Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Fac Econ & Social Sci, Tubingen, Germany; [Roesel, Inka] Univ Hosp Tubingen, Dept Sports Med, Tubingen, Germany; [Dierkes, Katja; Thiel, Ansgar; Sudeck, Gorden] Univ Tubingen, Interfac Res Inst Sport & Phys Act, Tubingen, Germany; [Giel, Katrin E.] Univ Hosp Tubingen, Dept Psychosomat Med & Psychotherapy, Tubingen, Germany; [Roesel, Inka] Univ Hosp Tubingen, Inst Clin Epidemiol & Appl Biometry, Fac Med, Tubingen, Germany; [Dierkes, Katja] Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Fac Econ & Social Sci, Tubingen, Germany; [Dierkes, Katja] Univ Tubingen, Interfac Res Inst Sport & Phys Act, Tubingen, Germany								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000926824400001	52	Article; Article		
J	Nishida, Masaki; Okano, Shuta; Ichinose, Atsushi; Suyama, Shutaro; Youn, Sumi								Daytime Napping Benefits Passing Performance and Scanning Activity in Elite Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			75	83		10.52082/jssm.2023.75			MAR 2023	2023	The present study explored the effect of a daytime napping opportunity on scanning activity, which is an essential component of successful soccer performance. Fourteen male elite collegiate was used to assess complex visual attention. In addition, a soccer passing test, modified with reference to the Loughborough Soccer Passing Test, was used to evaluate passing performance as well as scanning activity. A cross-over design was applied to examine nap and no-nap interventions. Participants (N = 14, mean age: 21.6 SD = 0.5 years, height: 1.73 +/- 0.06 m, body mass: 67.1 +/- 4.5 kg) were randomly allocated to a midday nap (40 minutes) or nonap group. Subjective sleepiness was measured using the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale, and perceptive fatigue was evaluated by the visual analog scale. There were no significant differences in subjective measurements or TMT between the nap and no-nap groups. However, the performance time for the passing test and scanning activity was significantly shorter (p < 0.001) and scanning activity was significantly more frequent in the nap condition than in the no-nap condition (p < 0.00005). These results suggest that daytime napping is beneficial for soccer-related cognitive function, represented by visuospatial processing and decisionmaking, and particularly as a potential countermeasure to mental cal implications for the preparation of players.		[Nishida, Masaki; Ichinose, Atsushi; Suyama, Shutaro; Youn, Sumi] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Nishida, Masaki; Ichinose, Atsushi; Suyama, Shutaro; Youn, Sumi] Waseda Univ, Sleep Res Inst, Tokyo, Japan; [Nishida, Masaki] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Nishida, Masaki] Waseda Univ, Sleep Res Inst, Tokyo, Japan								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000926826500001	50	Article; Article		
J	Behnam, Mohsen; Dickson, Geoff; Delshab, Vahid; Gerke, Anna; Savari Nikou, Parvaneh								The moderating effect of fan engagement on the relationship between fan knowledge and fan co-creation in social media								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	4			606	622		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2022-0175			OCT 11 2023	2023	PurposeSocial media has enhanced the ability of fans to interact with each other. Whilst previous research investigates fan co-creation, few studies focus on the interactive effects within the co-creation process. The authors develop a model for synthesizing the interactive concepts related to fan co-creation in social media, which leads to team identification.Design/methodology/approachParticipants (N = 483) were recruited from fans of clubs in the Persian Gulf Pro League of Iran. Structural equation modelling was applied to test the research model.FindingsThe results showed that fan knowledge facilitates fan co-creation, which in turn leads to team identification. Additionally, fan engagement had a moderating effect on the mediating role of fan co-creation in the association between fan knowledge and team identification.Research limitations/implicationsThe findings suggest that fan knowledge is an important antecedent of fan co-creation and highlight the significance of fan co-creation in promoting team identification in highly engaged fans at football clubs.Originality/valueThe current study contributes to the field of fan co-creation and provides significant implications for sport fan marketers.		[Behnam, Mohsen; Savari Nikou, Parvaneh] Urmia Univ, Orumiyeh, Iran; [Dickson, Geoff] La Trobe Univ, Melbourne, Australia; [Delshab, Vahid] Swinburne Univ Technol, Melbourne, Australia; [Gerke, Anna] Audencia Business Sch, Nantes, France; [Behnam, Mohsen] Urmia Univ, Orumiyeh, Iran								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000920891900001	98	Article; Article		
J	Gudelis, Mindaugas; Pruna, Ricard; Trujillano, Javier; Lundblad, Matilde; Khodaee, Morteza								Epidemiology of hamstring injuries in 538 cases from an FC Barcelona multi sports club								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	1			57	64		10.1080/00913847.2023.2170684			JAN 2 2024	2024	ObjectivesHamstring injuries are the most common muscle injuries in team sports. The aims of this study were to describe the epidemiology of hamstring muscle injuries in the professional and amateur sport sections of a multi-sport club Football Club Barcelona (FCB) and to determine any potential correlation between return-to-play (RTP) and injury location, severity of connective tissue damage, age, sex, and athlete's level of competition.MethodsThis descriptive epidemiological study with data collected from September 2007 to September 2017 stored in the FCB database. The study included non-contact hamstring injuries sustained during training or competition.ResultsA total of 538 hamstring injuries were reported in the club's database, of which 240 were structurally verified by imaging as hamstring injuries. The overall incidence for the 17 sports studied was 1.29 structurally verified hamstring injuries per 100 athletes per year. The muscle most commonly involved in hamstring injuries was the biceps femoris, and the connective tissue most frequently involved was the myofascial. There was no evidence of a statistically significant association between age and RTP after injury, and no statistically significant difference between sex and RTP. However, the time loss by professionals was shorter than for amateurs, and proximal hamstring injuries took longer RTP than distal ones.ConclusionIn the 17 sports practiced at multi-sport club, the incidence of hamstring injury was 1.29 per 100 athletes per year. Players from sports in which high-speed sprinting and kicking are necessary, and amateurs, were at higher risk of suffering a hamstring injury. In addition, proximally located hamstring injuries involving tendinous connective tissue showed the longest RTP time. Age did not seem to have any influence on RTP. Documenting location and the exact tissue involved in hamstring injuries may be beneficial for determining the prognosis and RTP.		[Gudelis, Mindaugas; Pruna, Ricard] FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Med Dept Football Club Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; [Gudelis, Mindaugas; Pruna, Ricard] Barca Innovat Hub Football Club Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; [Gudelis, Mindaugas] Clin Tenis Teknon, Bracelona, Spain; [Gudelis, Mindaugas] Reabilitacijos Ir sporto Med centras, Vilnius, Lithuania; [Trujillano, Javier] Univ Lleida, Lleida, Spain; [Lundblad, Matilde] Univ Gothenburg, Sahlgrenska Univ Hosp, Inst Clin Sci, Sahlgrenska Acad, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Lundblad, Matilde] Univ Gothenburg, Ctr Hlth & Performance, Dept Food & Nutr & Sports Sci, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Khodaee, Morteza] Univ Colorado, Sch Med Denver, Dept Family Med, Dept Orthoped, Denver, CO USA; [Gudelis, Mindaugas] FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Med Dept Football Club Barcelona, FC Barcelona Med Serv, Ave Onze Setembre, s-n, Sant Joan Despi 08970, Barcelona, Spain; [Gudelis, Mindaugas] FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Med Dept Football Club Barcelona, FC Barcelona Med Serv, Ave Onze Setembre, s-n, Sant Joan Despi 08970, Barcelona, Spain								28							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000918560400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Emmonds, Stacey; Till, Kevin; Weaving, Dan; Burton, Alan; Lara-Bercial, Sergio								Youth Sport Participation Trends Across Europe: Implications for Policy and Practice								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			69	80		10.1080/02701367.2022.2148623			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Despite the known health and wellbeing benefits of taking part in sport for children and adolescents, it is reported that sports participation declines during adolescence. The purpose of this study was to explore current organized youth sport participation rates across Europe for both males and females and update current understanding. Method: Sport participation registration data was collected for 18 sports from 27 countries. In total, participation data was collected from over 5 million young people from Under 8s (U8s) to Under 18s (U18s). Differences in the participation rates between age categories were investigated using a generalized linear mixed effects model. Results: Overall, males were four times more likely to participate in organised youth sport than females' participants, with this trend apparent across all age categories and across most sports. There was a significant decrease across sports in participation rates for males during adolescence from U14-U16 and U16-U18. There was a significant decrease in participation rates for females from U14-U16 for most sports except but an increase in participation rates from U16-U18 for 12 out of 18 sports. Soccer (1262%), wrestling (391%) and boxing (209%) were the sports that had greater male sport participation rates. In contrast, dance sports (86%) and volleyball (63%) had more female participants than males. This research shows male sports participation is significantly greater than female in youth sport across Europe. Conclusion: Furthermore, findings showed that for both male and female participants, participation rates increased from U8-U14 for the majority of sports followed by reduced participation rates during adolescence. Findings of this research can be used by national governing bodies and sporting organizations to inform youth sport participation initiatives.		[Emmonds, Stacey; Till, Kevin; Weaving, Dan; Burton, Alan; Lara-Bercial, Sergio] Leeds Beckett Univ, Leeds, England; [Lara-Bercial, Sergio] ICOACHKIDS, Leeds, England; [Emmonds, Stacey] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Carnegie Sch Sport Bldg,Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QQ, England; [Emmonds, Stacey] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Carnegie Sch Sport Bldg,Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QQ, England								70							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000918384700001	42	Article; Article		
J	Naname Junior, Marcelo; Lopes-Silva, Joao Paulo; Takito, Monica Yuri; Franchini, Emerson								Cadet and Junior Performance Is Associated With Senior's World Championship and Olympics Achievement in Judo								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			54	59		10.1080/02701367.2022.2147477			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: We determined whether cadet and junior Judo World Championship participation and medal achievement would predict senior performance at World Championship (WC) and Olympic Games (OG). Methods: We analyzed retrospectively a total of 7780 athletes who competed at the OG and WC in the cadet, junior, and senior between 2009 and 2021. Results: There was an increase in the probability of winning a medal in the senior category (WC and OG, and only WC) ranged from 4.3 to 4.5 for medal-winning cadets compared to non-medalists and this probability remained around 3.3-3.8 for medalists in the male and 5.3-5.4 for the female medalists in cadet WC. Moreover, the chance of winning a medal in the senior category (WC and OG) was 8.1-8.5 times greater for medalists when compared to non-medalists in the junior WC. In turn, the probability of winning a medal in the senior (WC) was 1.5-1.7 times greater for athletes who did not compete in the junior WC. In the OG, the probability of winning a medal was 3.5 greater times for medalists when compared to non-medalists at cadet and junior WC. Conclusion: Thus, being a cadet or junior WC medalist increases the probability of winning a senior WC or an Olympic medal.		[Naname Junior, Marcelo; Lopes-Silva, Joao Paulo; Takito, Monica Yuri; Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lopes-Silva, Joao Paulo] CESMAC Univ Ctr, Maceio, Brazil; [Lopes-Silva, Joao Paulo] Cesmac Univ Ctr, Sch Phys Educ, Angelo Neto 51 Farol, BR-57051530 Maceio, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000917799700001	35	Article; Article		
J	Mangona, Lucilia; Brasil, Iedda Almeida; Prista, Antonio; Farinatti, Paulo								Energy Expenditure, Intensity, and Perceived Effort in Recreational Functional Training								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			81	90		10.1080/02701367.2022.2148624			JAN 2 2024	2024	Background: Functional training (FT) has become popular and seems to provoke health benefits. However, there are unsubstantiated claims regarding energy expenditure (EE) vs. weight-loss and cardiorespiratory improvements linked to FT. Objective: This study quantified the EE and intensity during FT performed in a conventional fitness center. Additionally, data of FT and moderate continuous walking (WLK) were compared. Methods: Healthy individuals with no previous experience with FT [n = 25, 11 males/14 females, 38.8 +/- 9.3 years; 73.9 +/- 13.8 Kg; 168.5 +/- 8.5 cm; 26.0 +/- 4.5 Kg/m2; 16 overweight (BMI >25 Kg/m2)] performed three FT sessions interspersed with 48 h (two familiarization, one assessment). The circuit included 4 rounds of 12 exercises performed at all-out intensity for 20 s with 1-min intervals between rounds. WLK was performed for 25 min with intensity corresponding to scores 3-5 on Borg CR-10 Scale. Outcomes were EE (kcal), movement counts estimated by triaxial accelerometry, heart rate reserve (%HRR), and rate of perceived exertion (RPE). Results: On average, FT sessions lasted 24 min and EE ranged between 124 and 292 kcal (188 +/- 41 kcal), corresponding to 5-8 METs (6.1 +/- 0.6 METs), and 70-80%HRR (74 +/- 8%). Accelerometry (counts/min) showed that vigorous predominated over moderate intensity during FT and WLK (p = .01), with similar EE. The relative intensity and RPE were higher in FT vs. WLK (74% vs. 55%HRR and Borg 5-8 vs. 3-5, respectively; p < .0001). Conclusion: FT and WLK elicited EE consistent with recommendations to reduce cardiovascular disease risk, but only FT achieved relative intensities compatible with cardiorespiratory improvement. FT should be considered an option in health-oriented exercise programs for the general population.		[Mangona, Lucilia; Brasil, Iedda Almeida; Farinatti, Paulo] Univ Rio Janeiro State, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; [Mangona, Lucilia; Prista, Antonio] Pedag Univ Mozambique, Maputo, Mozambique; [Mangona, Lucilia] Eduardo Mondlane Univ, Maputo, Mozambique; [Farinatti, Paulo] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Lab Phys Act & Hlth Promot, Rua Sao Francisco Xavier 524 Bloco, sala 8121 Mara, BR-20550900 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Farinatti, Paulo] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Lab Phys Act & Hlth Promot, Rua Sao Francisco Xavier 524 Bloco, sala 8121 Mara, BR-20550900 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000917577700001	50	Article; Article		
J	Cayolla, Ricardo Roseira; Escadas, Marco; Biscaia, Rui; Kellison, Timothy; Quintela, Joana A. A.; Santos, Teresa								Fans' perceptions of pro-environmental sustainability initiatives in sport and triple bottom line benefits								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	2			395	421		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2022-0141			APR 3 2023	2023	PurposeThe purpose of this research is to examine fans' perceptions of pro-environmental sustainability initiatives promoted by a professional sport club and the ensuing effects on a triple bottom line (TBL) approach (i.e. fans' socially, environmentally and economically favourable behaviours).Design/methodology/approachData were collected in two different steps using an online self-administered questionnaire (n1 = 1,043; n2 = 2,167) distributed to fees-paying members registered in the club's database. The analysis was carried out though structural equation modelling.FindingsThe results indicate good psychometric properties of the scale used to measure fans' perceptions of a club's pro-environmental sustainability initiatives (perceptions of pro-environmental sustainability initiatives in sports; p-PESIS). Additionally, there is a positive effect of p-PESIS on fans' social behaviours as well as on their daily environmental actions. Furthermore, p-PESIS also shows a positive effect at improving fans' economic activities towards the club.Originality/valueExtending previous research, the authors tested a scale to measure fans' responses to pro-environmental sustainability initiatives in sport and examined their links to the TBL dimensions. Pro-environmental sustainability initiatives in sport benefit not only the club itself (by reinforcing fans' activities with the club) but also society as a whole, as it can promote fans' conscientiousness and likelihood to behave in environmentally and socially favourable ways.		[Cayolla, Ricardo Roseira; Quintela, Joana A. A.] Univ Portucalense, Dept Econ & Gestao REMIT, Porto, Portugal; [Escadas, Marco] Univ Minho, Sch Econ & Management, Dept Econ & Gestao, Braga, Portugal; [Escadas, Marco] Polytech Inst Cavado & Ave, Hospitality & Tourism Sch, Barcelos, Portugal; [Biscaia, Rui] Univ Bath, Fac Humanities & Social Sci, Dept Hlth, Bath, England; [Kellison, Timothy] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA USA; [Santos, Teresa] Qual & Environm Dept, Futebol Clube Porto, Porto, Portugal; [Cayolla, Ricardo Roseira] Univ Portucalense, Dept Econ & Gestao REMIT, Porto, Portugal								35							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000918399000001	104	Article; Article		
J	Szarabajko, Alexandra; Cardinal, Bradley J.								Are Tertiary Institutions Losing Sight of Their Duty to <i>Cura Personalis</i>?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			91	100		10.1080/02701367.2022.2153785			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Physical education requirements (PERs) have been suggested as a potential solution for increasing physical activity (PA) among undergraduate students, specifically for the inactive who face the greatest barriers to PA. In 2010, among a nationally-representative, random sample of tertiary institutions in the U.S. only 39% had PERs as part of their general education curriculum. But, being a decade old, this data may be outdated. The aim of this study was to examine the current status of PERs in U.S. tertiary institutions and to explore what institutional characteristics are associated with having a PER. Methods: Academic catalogs of a nationally representative, random sample of 331 institutions were searched for PER information. Results: The majority of U.S. tertiary institutions did not mandate physical education (PE) courses (56.2%), whereas 31.7% fully and 12% partially required their undergraduate students to complete a PE course to graduate. The characteristics most associated with an institution having a PER included being private, having a small enrollment size, having an academic degree program related to the field, having both activity and conceptual components, being <3 credit hours, offering an elective program in physical activity education, and being located in the south. Conclusion: Future work is needed to identify important elements of PER courses, reasons why PERs are sustained by some institutions versus others, and to establish practical guidelines regarding best practices for quality PER courses. More direct action within the discipline of kinesiology is needed to underscore the importance and need of PERs at the tertiary level.		[Szarabajko, Alexandra] Columbia Coll, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Cardinal, Bradley J.] Oregon State Univ, Corvallis, OR USA; [Szarabajko, Alexandra] Columbia Coll, Exercise Sci Program, Div Hlth Math & Sci, Columbia, SC 29203 USA; [Szarabajko, Alexandra] Columbia Coll, Exercise Sci Program, Div Hlth Math & Sci, Columbia, SC 29203 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000917572600001	77	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Shuge; Wang, Ling; He, Yang; Liu, Jing-Dong								The Divergent Effects of Resilience Qualities and Resilience Support in Predicting Pre-Competition Anxiety and Championship Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			101	109		10.1080/02701367.2022.2156446			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Psychological resilience is vital to the development of sport talents. Qualitative research has consistently demonstrated that sport resilience encapsulates a mixed package of resilience qualities (reflecting positive traits and characteristics) and resilience support (reflecting perceived support and related resources). Ironically, sport resilience research adopting quantitative methods has been assessing resilience as a unidimensional construct, with little attention to the multi-facet nature of resilience and its effects on performance. In the present research, we tested a novel proposition that resilience qualities predict reduced pre-competition cognitive anxiety and contribute to performance more than resilience support. Methods & Results: Across two samples of competitive table tennis players (Study 1: N = 196 competing at province level; Study 2: N = 106 competing at national level), we consistently found resilience qualities, rather than resilience support, predicted lower levels of pre-competition cognitive anxiety and superior performance at a national championship. Results also suggest that pre-competition cognitive anxiety mediated the relationship between resilience qualities and performance. Conclusion: The findings provide the first evidence supporting the divergent effects of resilience qualities and resilience support in predicting pre- competition anxiety and championship performance and call for the consideration of such a distinction when designing and delivering resilience programs.		[Zhang, Shuge; Wang, Ling] Univ Derby, Derby, England; [Wang, Ling; He, Yang] Hunan Univ Sci & Technol, Xiangtan, Peoples R China; [Liu, Jing-Dong] Sun Yat Sen Univ, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Shuge] Univ Derby, Sch Human Sci, Kedleston Rd, Derby DE22 1GB, England; [Zhang, Shuge] Univ Derby, Sch Human Sci, Kedleston Rd, Derby DE22 1GB, England								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000917580900001	50	Article; Article		
J	Beek, Remco; Van Hoecke, Jo; Derom, Inge								Sponsorship and social justice: brand positioning on diversity and inclusion in sport marketing during the 2020 UEFA European football championship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	3			538	557		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2022-0069			JUL 31 2023	2023	PurposeContextual changes in communications, social activism and perceptions of commercialization have changed the dynamics in sponsorship. This paper investigated the patterns in sponsorship and social justice within the context of a major sports event.Design/methodology/approachThe European Football Championship serves as an impactful platform for sponsors due to its global reach. The sponsorship activations of the twelve official sponsors were investigated by analysing sponsorship expressions on the LED boarding during every match of the tournament. Furthermore, additional data on sponsorship characteristics and brand positioning was collected for every sponsor to define relevant factors to understand the differences in sponsorship communications.FindingsDuring UEFA EURO 2020, five official sponsors changed their sponsorship activations. Adjustments were made in sponsorship expressions to position the brand on diversity and inclusion. The analyses of over 90,000 press photos and 51 official match videos clarified the dynamics of brand positioning, sponsorship characteristics in perspective of globalization patterns and different sponsorship approaches in different geographical, social and political contexts.Practical implicationsDecision makers in the global sports industry are challenged in their brand management and sponsorship approaches for the social good. This study supports to understand the sponsorship approaches and factors affecting these different strategies.Originality/valueDespite the growing attention to social justice issues in sports, there is a need to understand inclusive marketing strategies in sponsorship relationships. Using data triangulation, the findings enabled to clarify differences in sponsor approaches to social justice and illustrate the complex dynamics of brand positioning on diversity and inclusion in the sponsorship ecosystem.		[Beek, Remco] Rotterdam Univ Appl Sci, Dept Sport Mkt & Management, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Beek, Remco; Van Hoecke, Jo; Derom, Inge] Vrije Univ Brussel, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Brussels, Belgium; [Beek, Remco] Rotterdam Univ Appl Sci, Dept Sport Mkt & Management, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Beek, Remco] Vrije Univ Brussel, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Brussels, Belgium								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000916048200001	85	Article; Article		
J	Matsumoto, Tatsuya; Tomita, Yosuke; Irisawa, Koichi								Identifying the Optimal Arm Priming Exercise Intensity to Improve Maximal Leg Sprint Cycling Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			58	67		10.52082/jssm.2023.58			MAR 2023	2023	Priming exercises improve subsequent motor performance; however, their effectiveness may depend on the workload and involved body areas. The present study aimed to estimate the effects of leg and arm priming exercises performed at different intensities on maximal sprint cycling performance. Fourteen competitive male speed-skaters visited a lab eight times, where they underwent a body composition measurement, two V?O2max measurements (leg and arm ergometers), and five sprint cycling sessions after different priming exercise conditions. The five priming exercise conditions included 10-minute rest (Control); 10-minute arm ergometer exercise at 20% V?O2max (Arm 20%); 10-minute arm ergometer exercise at 70% V?O2max (Arm 70%); 1-min maximal arm ergometer exercise at 140% V?O2max (Arm 140%); and 10-min leg ergometer exercise at 70% V?O2max (Leg 70%). Power outputs of 60-s maximal sprint cycling, blood lactate concentration, heart rate, muscle and skin surface temperature, and rating of perceived exertion were compared between the priming conditions at different measurement points. Our results showed that the Leg 70% was the optimal priming exercise among our experimental conditions. Priming exercise with the Arm 70% also tended to improve subsequent motor performance, while Arm 20% and Arm 140% did not. Mild elevation in blood lactate concentration by arm priming exercise may improve the performance of high-intensity exercise.		[Matsumoto, Tatsuya; Tomita, Yosuke; Irisawa, Koichi] Takasaki Univ Hlth & Welf, Fac Hlth Care, Dept Phys Therapy, Gunma, Japan; [Tomita, Yosuke] Takasaki Univ Hlth & Welf, Fac Hlth Care, Dept Phys Therapy, Gunma, Japan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000921955400001	47	Article; Article		
J	Reiner, Marina M.; Gabriel, Anna; Tilp, Markus; Konrad, Andreas								The Acute Effects of Pectoralis Major Foam Ball Rolling on Shoulder Extension Range of Motion, Isometric Contraction Torque, and Muscle Stiffness								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			51	57		10.52082/jssm.2023.51			MAR 2023	2023	Although it is well known that foam rolling (FR) of the lower ex-tremities can increase the range of motion (ROM) of a joint while likely having no detrimental effect on muscle performance, to date, this is not clear if this is the case for the upper body. There-fore, the purpose of this study was to analyze the effects of a 2 -min FR intervention of the pectoralis major (PMa) muscle on muscle stiffness of the PMa, shoulder extension ROM, and max-imal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) peak torque. Thirty-eight (n = 15 females) healthy, physically active participants were randomly assigned to either an intervention (n = 18) or a control group (n = 20). The intervention group performed a 2-min foam ball rolling (FBR) intervention of the PMa muscle (FB-PMa-rolling), while the control group rested for 2 min. Before and after the intervention, muscle stiffness of the PMa was measured with shear wave elastography, while shoulder extension ROM was rec-orded with a 3D-motion capture system, and shoulder flexion MVIC peak torque was measured with a force sensor. MVIC peak torque decreased in both groups (time effect: p = 0.01; eta 2 = 0.16), without any difference between groups (interaction effect: p = 0.49, eta 2 = 0.013). ROM (p = 0.24; eta 2 = 0.04) and muscle stiff-ness (FB-PMa-rolling p = 0.86; Z =-0.38; control group p = 0.7, Z =-0.17) did not change due to the intervention. The lack of changes in ROM and muscle stiffness following the FBR inter-vention might be explained by the small area of applied pressure with the FBR on the PMa muscle. Moreover, the decrease in MVIC peak torque is likely more related to the uncommon test situation of the upper limbs, rather than the FBR intervention it-self.		[Reiner, Marina M.; Tilp, Markus; Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sports & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Gabriel, Anna] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Conservat & Rehabil Orthoped, Munich, Germany; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000919908000001	40	Article; Article		
J	Cencini, Sebastiano; Perrott, Margaret; Docking, Sean; Cook, Jill								Proximal patellar tendon abnormalities on ultrasound can develop in male adolescent basketball players: A longitudinal study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				63	69		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.11.004			MAR 2023	2023	Introduction: Adolescent patellar tendinopathy is reported but the pubertal-stage of onset of abnormal tendon structure has not been investigated with grayscale ultrasound.Aims: To investigate abnormal tendon structure using grayscale ultrasound and its association with pubertal-stage and pain. Methods: Forty-three male basketball players aged 13.7 years (SD 1.0) had patellar tendon ultrasound scans every 6 months for 2.5 years. Pubertal-stage (peak height velocity) was calculated using the Mirwauld equation. Tendon thickness, hypoechogenicity and pain during single leg decline squat (SLDS) were recorded. Tendons were classified: hypoechoic, normal or immature. Results: Two tendons were hypoechoic at baseline. Six developed hypoechogenicity over 2.5 years (eight tendons [9%], six participants [14%]), all in peri and post-PHV players. Twenty-six tendons (17 partici-pants) were classified as immature during the study. Hypoechoic tendons were thicker (5.3 mm SD 1.2) than normal (3.9 mm SD 0.7) tendons (p < 0.001). There was no difference in the proportion of par-ticipants reporting pain during SLDS in the hypoechoic (N = 3) and normal (N =11) groups (p = 0.33), or in hypoechoic tendon thickness between those reporting pain (6.5 mm, SD 1.7) or not (5.2 mm, SD 0.9, p = 0.17).Discussion: This study using grayscale ultrasound found that basketball players with hypoechogenicity were peri or post-PHV. Abnormal structure was not always associated with pain.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Cencini, Sebastiano] Univ Siena, Santa Maria Scotte Hosp, Dept Med Surg & Neurosci, Siena, Italy; [Perrott, Margaret; Docking, Sean; Cook, Jill] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Australia; [Docking, Sean] Cabrini Hlth, Monash Dept Clin Epidemiol, Melbourne, Australia; [Perrott, Margaret] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne 3086, Australia; [Perrott, Margaret] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne 3086, Australia								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000925788900001	32	Article; Article		
J	Rahimian, Pegah; Toka, Laszlo								A data-driven approach to assist offensive and defensive players in optimal decision making								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			245	256		10.1177/17479541221149481			FEB 2024	2024	Among all the popular sports, soccer is a relatively long-lasting game with a small number of goals per game. This renders the decision-making cumbersome, since it is not straightforward to evaluate the impact of in-game actions apart from goal scoring. Although several action valuation metrics and counterfactual reasoning have been proposed by researchers in recent years, assisting coaches in discovering the optimal actions in different situations of a soccer game has received little attention of soccer analytics. This work proposes the application of deep reinforcement learning on the event and tracking data of soccer matches to discover the most impactful actions at the interrupting point of a possession. Our optimization framework assists players and coaches in inspecting the optimal action, and on a higher level, we provide for the adjustment required for the teams in terms of their action frequencies in different pitch zones. The optimization results have different suggestions for offensive and defensive teams. For the offensive team, the optimal policy suggests more shots in half-spaces (i.e. long-distance shots). For the defending team, the optimal policy suggests that when locating in wings, defensive players should increase the frequency of fouls and ball outs rather than clearances, and when located in the centre, players should increase the frequency of clearances rather than fouls and ball outs.		[Rahimian, Pegah] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Fac Elect Engn & Informat, Dept Telecommun & Media Informat, Budapest, Hungary; [Toka, Laszlo] MTA BME Informat Syst Res Grp, Budapest, Hungary; [Rahimian, Pegah] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Fac Elect Engn & Informat, Dept Telecommun & Media Informat, Magyar tudosok korutja 2, H-1111 Budapest, Hungary; [Rahimian, Pegah] Budapest Univ Technol & Econ, Fac Elect Engn & Informat, Dept Telecommun & Media Informat, Magyar tudosok korutja 2, H-1111 Budapest, Hungary								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000922424000001	23	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Young Hoon; Fort, Rodney								Division Play and Outcome Uncertainty in Sports Leagues								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	5			639	663		10.1177/15270025221148995			JUN 2023	2023	The analysis of outcome uncertainty (OU) and competitive balance (CB) has been of overwhelming importance in sports economics. Surprisingly, there is little work on the impact of the structure of play on either OU or CB. Balanced and unbalanced schedules, and division play have been used to analyze biasedness of CB measures. And the impact of the introduction of unbalanced schedules on OU has been analyzed. But the impact of the introduction of both unbalanced schedules and division play on OU has not been analyzed. In this paper, we assess the impacts on OU, for given choices of CB (OU/CB) of moving to division play. This includes the impact of schedule imbalance, division strength, the number of teams, and the number of divisions. We also obtain estimates of their marginal impacts on OU/CB via numerical analysis and regression. The results are compared to OU/CB from unbiased estimators, for the case of the introduction of division play in Major League Baseball. The results suggest that the approach is useful and there are policy implications.		[Lee, Young Hoon] Sogang Univ, Dept Econ, Seoul, South Korea; [Fort, Rodney] Univ Michigan, Dept Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Fort, Rodney] Univ Michigan, Dept Sport Management, SKB 3250,800 North Univ, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Fort, Rodney] Univ Michigan, Dept Sport Management, SKB 3250,800 North Univ, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000916505900001	14	Article; Article		
J	Barry, Lorna; Lyons, Mark; McCreesh, Karen; Powell, Cormac; Comyns, Tom								The design and evaluation of an integrated training load and injury/illness surveillance system in competitive swimming								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				54	62		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.01.007			MAR 2023	2023	Objective: To design and evaluate an integrated training load monitoring and injury/illness surveillance system in a competitive swimming environment.Design: Descriptive/mixed methods.Setting: Swim Ireland National Training Centres.Participants: Fourteen competitive athletes and seven coaches/medical data collectors participated in the evaluation process.Outcome measures: System satisfaction, usefulness and burden were evaluated. Barriers to the imple-mentation and effectiveness of the system were explored.Results: Most athletes were 'extremely' or 'very' satisfied with the overall data collection process and also found it to be 'extremely' or 'very' useful in the training centre environment. All practitioners were 'extremely satisfied with the system and found it to be either 'extremely' or 'very' useful in their role. Process constraints and data access and control were significant themes related to the athletes, while practitioners highlighted communication and cooperation amongst stakeholders, layering context to the data, maintaining data integrity and the coach's influence in the monitoring process as being important to the monitoring/surveillance process.Conclusions: Training load monitoring and injury/illness surveillance are necessary to elevate the stan-dard of prospective injury/illness prevention research. Integrated systems should be designed in line with key consensus statements, while also being implemented in a way that counteracts the challenges within the real-world training environment.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Barry, Lorna; Lyons, Mark; Comyns, Tom] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [McCreesh, Karen] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Barry, Lorna] Swim Ireland, Irish Sport HQ, Performance Dept, Dublin, Ireland; [Barry, Lorna; Lyons, Mark; McCreesh, Karen; Comyns, Tom] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Powell, Cormac] Sport Ireland, High Performance Unit, Sport Ireland Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Powell, Cormac] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Phys Act Hlth Cluster, Limerick, Ireland; [Lyons, Mark; Powell, Cormac; Comyns, Tom] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Barry, Lorna] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000921006100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Held, Steffen; Rappelt, Ludwig; Wiedenmann, Tim; Deutsch, Jan-Phillip; Roettgen, Julian; Donath, Lars								Blood Flow Restricted Cycling Impairs Subsequent Jumping But Not Balance Performance Slightly More Than Non-Restricted Cycling: An Acute Randomized Controlled Cross-Over Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			44	50		10.52082/jssm.2023.44			MAR 2023	2023	Chronic blood flow restriction (BFR) training has been shown to improve drop jumping (DJ) and balance performance. However, the acute effects of low intensity BFR cycling on DJ and balance indices have not yet been examined. 28 healthy young adults (9 female; 21.8 +/- 2.7years; 1.79 +/- 0.08m; 73.9 +/- 9.5kg) performed DJ and balance testing before and immediately after 20min low intensity cycling (40% of power at maximal oxygen uptake) with (BFR) and without BFR (noBFR). For DJ related parameters, no significant mode x time interactions were found (p > 0.221, eta p2 <= 0.06). Large time effects for DJ heights and the reactive strength index were observed (p < 0.001, eta p2 > 0.42). Pairwise comparison revealed notably lower values for both DJ jumping height and re- active strength index at post compared to pre (BFR:-7.4 +/- 9.4%, noBFR:-4.2 +/- 7.4%). No statistically significant mode x time in- teractions (p > 0.36; eta p2 <= 0.01) have been observed for balance testing. Low intensity cycling with BFR results in increased (p <= 0.01; SMD > 0.72) mean heart rate (+14 +/- 8bpm), maximal heart rate (+16 +/- 12 bpm), lactate (+0.7 +/- 1.2 mmol/L), perceived train- ing intensity (+2.5 +/- 1.6au) and pain scores (+4.9 +/- 2.2au) com- pared to noBFR. BFR cycling induced acutely impaired DJ per- formance, but balance performance was not affected, compared to noBFR cycling. Heart rate, lactate, perceived training intensity, and pain scores were increased during BFR cycling.		[Held, Steffen; Rappelt, Ludwig; Wiedenmann, Tim; Deutsch, Jan-Phillip; Roettgen, Julian; Donath, Lars] German Sports Univ Cologne, Intervent Res Exercise Training, Cologne, Germany; [Held, Steffen] German Sports Univ Cologne, Intervent Res Exercise Training, Cologne, Germany								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000919899600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Pilon, Rui; Farinatti, Paulo; Oliveira, Bruno; Cunha, Felipe; Lattari, Eduardo; Monteiro, Walace								Excess Postexercise Oxygen Consumption Following Isocaloric Bouts of Resistance and Aerobic Exercise in Older Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			24	30		10.1080/02701367.2022.2136614			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Albeit being a major determinant of exercise-related energy expenditure (EE), there is a lack of research on the excess post-exercise oxygen consumption (EPOC) after different exercise modalities in older adults. This study compared the EPOC after isocaloric bouts of resistance (RE) and aerobic (AE) exercise. Methods: The EE during exercise was determined through telemetric indirect calorimetry in ten physically active participants aged 63 to 82 years (5 women, 73 +/- 6 years, 70.5 +/- 9.9 kg, 161 +/- 8 cm). The target EE in AE corresponded to values achieved during RE, and the EPOC was assessed for 30 min in the supine position. Results: The EE during AE and RE were 126.0 +/- 30.7 kcal and 123.9 +/- 30.6 kcal, respectively. The time to achieve the target EE was 2.3 times shorter in AE vs. RE. The EPOC magnitude was greater after AE (7.9 +/- 2.4 L, 40.1 +/- 11.1 kcal) than RE (5.9 +/- 1.8 L, 26.9 +/- 11.5 kcal). Conclusion: Older adults showed greater EPOC after isocaloric sessions of AE vs. RE. Additionally, AE had better temporal efficiency than RE to elicit a given EE.		[Pilon, Rui; Farinatti, Paulo; Oliveira, Bruno; Cunha, Felipe; Monteiro, Walace] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Pilon, Rui; Lattari, Eduardo; Monteiro, Walace] Salgado Oliveira Univ, Sao Goncalo, Brazil; [Oliveira, Bruno] Rural Fed Univ Rio De Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Monteiro, Walace] Rio De Janeiro State Univ LABSAU UERJ, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Lab Phys Act & Hlth Promot, Sao Francisco Xavier St,524 Floor,8121 Room,F Bloc, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Monteiro, Walace] Rio De Janeiro State Univ LABSAU UERJ, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Lab Phys Act & Hlth Promot, Sao Francisco Xavier St,524 Floor,8121 Room,F Bloc, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000915301800001	44	Article; Article		
J	Preszler, Jamie A.; McInnis, Kelly C.; Baute, Lisa; Tanaka, Miho J.								Rehabilitation of anterior knee pain in the pregnant athlete: Considerations and modifications by trimester								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				34	46		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.01.001			MAR 2023	2023	Background: Anterior knee pain is a common symptom many females experience during pregnancy. There are several musculoskeletal changes that occur in anatomy and physiology throughout the course of pregnancy that impact the lower extremity kinetic chain. Pregnant athletes, recreational through competitive, who attempt to maintain a high activity level through each trimester may be at increased risk for anterior knee pain due to a greater demand for lumbopelvic and hip stabilization.Clinical question: What are the evidence-driven rehabilitation guidelines and specific modifications needed to treat anterior knee pain in the female athlete during each trimester of pregnancy?Key results: We aim to provide an overview of rehabilitation treatment guidelines for pregnant females with anterior knee pain, presenting specific physiological changes and rationale for modifications, dis-cussed by trimester. We recommend our program be conducted under the supervision of a physical therapist working closely with the athlete's obstetrics and sports medicine team. Clinical application: The number of women who are active during pregnancy is increasing. We provide an overview of the guidelines and considerations for treating women with anterior knee pain during a healthy and uneventful pregnancy.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Preszler, Jamie A.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Sports Phys Therapy, Boston, MA USA; [McInnis, Kelly C.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Baute, Lisa] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Boston, MA USA; [Tanaka, Miho J.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA USA; [Preszler, Jamie A.] 175 Cambridge Suite 470, Boston, MA 02114 USA; [Preszler, Jamie A.] 175 Cambridge Suite 470, Boston, MA 02114 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000922089500001	152	Article; Article		
J	Neal, Bradley S.; McManus, Chris J.; Bradley, Warren J.; Leaney, Sam F.; Murray, Kelly; Clark, Nicholas C.								The feasibility, safety, and efficacy of lower limb garment-integrated blood flow restriction training in healthy adults								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				9	16		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.01.006			MAR 2023	2023	Objectives: Explore the feasibility of lower-limb garment-integrated BFR-training. Design: Observational study. Setting: Human performance laboratory. Participants: Healthy males with no experience of BFR-training. Main outcome measures: Feasibility was determined by a priori thresholds for recruitment, adherence, and data collection. Safety was determined by measuring BFR torniquet pressure and the incidence of side effects. Efficacy was determined by measuring body anthropometry and knee isokinetic dyna-mometry. Feasibility and safety outcomes were reported descriptively or as a proportion with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI), with mean change, 95% CIs, and effect sizes for efficacy outcomes. Results: Twelve participants (mean age 24.8 years [6.5]) were successfully recruited; 11 completed the study. 134/136 sessions were completed (adherence 1/4 98.5%) and 100% of data were collected. There was one event of excessive pain during exercise (0.7%, 95% CI 0.0%, 4.0%), two events of excessive pain post-exercise (1.5%, 95% CI 0.4%, 5.5%), and one event of persistent paraesthesia post-exercise (0.7%, 95% CI 0.0%, 4.0%). Mean maximal BFR torniquet pressure was <200 mmHg. We observed an increase in knee extension peak torque (mean change 12.4 Nm), but no notable changes in body anthropometry. Conclusions: Lower-limb garment-integrated BFR-training is feasible, has no signal of important harm, and could be used independently.(c) 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Neal, Bradley S.; McManus, Chris J.; Leaney, Sam F.; Murray, Kelly; Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England; [Bradley, Warren J.] Hytro Ltd, 2 Pk Court,Pyford Rd, Surrey KT14 6SD, England; [Neal, Bradley S.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester, England; [Neal, Bradley S.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester, England								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000976309800001	41	Article; Article		
J	Chaltron, Cale; Sherman, David A.; Pamukoff, Derek N.; Bazett-Jones, David M.; Glaviano, Neal R.; Norte, Grant E.								Whole-body vibration reduces hamstrings neuromuscular function in uninjured individuals								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				17	25		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.01.004			MAR 2023	2023	Objectives: Despite the growing use of whole-body vibration (WBV) to enhance quadriceps neuromus-cular function, the hamstrings-specific response is unclear among those without neuromuscular impairment, which is important to inform performance-based recommendations. Our objective was to determine the immediate and prolonged effects of WBV on hamstrings and quadriceps neuromuscular function in uninjured individuals.Design: Crossover.Setting: Laboratory.Participants: Nineteen, recreationally active individuals performed WBV and control exercise protocols, consisting of six 1-min repetitions of isometric squats, on separate days in a randomized order.Main outcome measures: Electromyographic (EMG) amplitude, antagonist-to-agonist co-activation, rate of torque development, and peak torque of the hamstrings and quadriceps were measured pre-, immediately post-, and 20 min post-condition. Percentage change scores were calculated from baseline to each post-measurement.Results: A condition main effect indicated that WBV reduced agonist semitendinosus EMG amplitudes more than the control (-12.1% vs.-1.5%, p < .001). Antagonist vastus medialis EMG amplitudes were reduced immediately, but not 20 min following WBV (-7.1% vs. 3.5%, p < .001).Conclusions: WBV induced an inhibitory effect on medial hamstrings activity during knee flexion contraction in a majority of our sample, yet this response was not uniformly observed and its functional relevance remains unclear in an uninjured population.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Chaltron, Cale] Univ Kentucky, Athlet Dept, Lexington, KY 40506 USA; [Sherman, David A.] Live4 Phys Therapy & Wellness Advising, 525 Massachusetts Ave,Suite 206B, Acton, MA 01720 USA; [Sherman, David A.] Boston Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Athlet Training, 635 Commonwealth Ave, Boston, MA 02215 USA; [Pamukoff, Derek N.] Western Univ, Sch Kinesiol, 1151 Richmond St, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada; [Bazett-Jones, David M.; Norte, Grant E.] Univ Toledo Study Site, Dept Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Hlth & Human Serv, 2801 W Bancroft St,2505H,Mail Stop 119, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, 2095 Hillside Rd,U-1110, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Norte, Grant E.] Univ Toledo Study Site, Dept Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Hlth & Human Serv, 2801 W Bancroft St,2505H,Mail Stop 119, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000978312200001	50	Article; Article		
J	Sancho, Igor; Willy, Richard W.; Morrissey, Dylan; Malliaras, Peter; Lascurain-Aguirrebena, Ion								Achilles tendon forces and pain during common rehabilitation exercises in male runners with Achilles tendinopathy. A laboratory study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				26	33		10.1016/j.ptsp.2023.01.002			MAR 2023	2023	Objectives: To estimate Achilles tendon forces and their relationship with self-reported pain in runners with Achilles tendinopathy (AT) during common rehabilitation exercises.Design: Cross-sectional.Setting: Laboratory.Participants: 24 recreational male runners (45.92 (8.24) years old; 78.20 (8.01) kg; 177.17 (6.69) cm) with symptomatic AT.Main outcome measures: Kinematic and kinetic data were collected to estimate Achilles tendon forces during 12 commonly prescribed exercises. Achilles tendon forces were estimated from biomechanical data and normalised to the participant's bodyweight. The secondary aim was to investigate the rela-tionship between Achilles tendon forces and pain during these exercises.Results: Two exercise clusters were identified based on Achilles tendon forces. Cluster1 included various exercises including double heel raises, single heel raises, and walking (range: 1.10-2.76 BWs). Cluster2 included running, jumping and hopping exercises (range: 5.13-6.35 BWs). Correlation between tendon forces and pain was at best low for each exercise (range:-0.43 -0.20). Higher force exercises lead to more tendon load for a given amount of pain (R2 = 0.7505; y = 0.2367x + 0.6191).Conclusion: This study proposes a hierarchical exercise progression based on Achilles tendon forces to guide treatment of runners with AT. Achilles tendon forces and pain are not correlated in runners with AT.(c) 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sancho, Igor; Morrissey, Dylan; Lascurain-Aguirrebena, Ion] Queen Mary Univ London, William Harvey Res Inst, Barts & London Sch Med & Dent, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England; [Sancho, Igor] Univ Deusto, Physiotherapy Dept, San Sebastian, Spain; [Willy, Richard W.] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Morrissey, Dylan] Barts Hlth NHS Trust, Physiotherapy Dept, London, England; [Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Australia; [Lascurain-Aguirrebena, Ion] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Med & Nursing, Dept Physiol, Physiotherapy, Leioa, Spain; [Willy, Richard W.] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Sancho, Igor] Sanchez Toca 9, San Sebastian, Spain								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000976322100001	42	Article; Article		
J	Needle, Alan R.; Tinsley, Jennifer E.; Cash, Jasmine J.; Koeval, Blake K.; Barton, Jacob A.; Howard, Jennifer S.								The effects of neuromuscular electrical stimulation to the ankle pronators on neural excitability & functional status in patients with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				60				1	8		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.12.001			MAR 2023	2023	Objectives: Chronic ankle instability (CAI) is associated with decreased neural excitability that negatively impacts function. This study assessed a 2-week neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) or trans -cutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) intervention over the ankle pronators on neural excit-ability, performance, and patient-reported function in patients with CAI. Study design: Randomized controlled trial. Participants: Twenty participants with CAI completed the study.Main outcome measures: Participants were assessed for reflexive and corticospinal excitability to the ankle muscles, dynamic balance, side-hop test performance and patient-reported outcomes at baseline, post-intervention (2-weeks), and retention (4-weeks). Between baseline and post-intervention, partic-ipants reported for 5 sessions where they received either sub-noxious NMES (n = 11) or sensory-level TENS (n = 9) over the ankle pronators.Results: Improved reflexive excitability to the ankle pronators was observed in TENS at post-intervention (p = 0.030) and retention (p = 0.029). Cortical excitability to the dorsiflexors increased in TENS at post -intervention (p = 0.017), but not at retention (p = 0.511). No significant changes were found for other neural measures, balance ability, hopping, or patient-reported function (p > 0.050). Conclusions: Our results suggest TENS modified neural excitability; however, these changes were not enough to impact clinical function. While TENS may be capable of neuromodulation, it may require rehabilitative exercise to generate lasting changes. NCT04322409. Level of evidence: Level 2.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Needle, Alan R.; Koeval, Blake K.; Barton, Jacob A.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Publ Hlth & Exercise Sci, Boone, NC USA; [Needle, Alan R.; Howard, Jennifer S.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Boone, NC USA; [Tinsley, Jennifer E.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Athlet Training & Clin Nutr, Lexington, KY USA; [Cash, Jasmine J.] Med Univ South Carolina, Dept Hlth Sci & Res, Charleston, SC USA; [Needle, Alan R.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Publ Hlth & Exercise Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, 1179 State Farm Rd, ASU Box 32071, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Needle, Alan R.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Publ Hlth & Exercise Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, 1179 State Farm Rd, ASU Box 32071, Boone, NC 28608 USA								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000974888300001	46	Article; Article		
J	Rai, Jaskirat Singh; Foroughi, Behzad; Itani, Maher N. N.; Singh, Amanpreet								Measuring spectators' perception toward peripheral stadium quality services after COVID-19: impact on their emotions and attendance intentions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	2			375	394		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2022-0087			APR 3 2023	2023	PurposeThe perception of sport consumers on peripheral stadium-quality services (PSQS) has evolved after compulsory precautionary measures were imposed on gatherings to alleviate the spread of coronavirus. This study attempts to reassess five principal dimensions of PSQS? Stadium parking, stadium cleanliness, fan control, food services and perceived crowding? through reflecting on the COVID-19 control and prevention measures established during this pandemic. Furthermore, it aims to measure the impact of the multi-dimensional PSQS on spectators' emotions and future attendance intentions.Design/methodology/approachThe purposive sampling technique was used to collect data from spectators watching the live matches of cricket at the stadium. A total of 680 responses were collected from spectators and uploaded to the measurement model. The covariance-based structural equation modeling technique was used subsequently for analysis purposes.FindingsThe study found a positive impact of the stadium cleanliness and fan control services on spectators' happiness and excitement emotions; and a negative impact of stadium parking, stadium cleanliness, fan control and perceived crowding on their anger, anxiety and dejection emotions. The happiness and excitement emotions of the spectators induced them to visit again at the stadium. Of all the peripheral quality services, the study found only stadium cleanliness service indirectly effect spectators' revisit intentions through excitement emotion as a mediator.Research limitations/implicationsThe incorporation of the safety procedures through PSQS can reduce spectators' negative emotions especially when they face psychological fear of the pandemic. These services work as a stimulus for spectators that directly affect their organism (emotions) and indirectly affect their response (attendance intentions).Originality/valueThis study contributed to sports research by novelty evaluating sport consumers' perception of the PSQS after incorporating COVID-19 preventive measures. It empirically examines the effect PSQS on spectators' emotions and re-visits intentions.		[Rai, Jaskirat Singh] Chandigarh Grp Coll, Chandigarh Sch Business, Jhanjeri, India; [Foroughi, Behzad] I Shou Univ, Dept Int Business Adm, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Itani, Maher N. N.] Ajman Univ, Coll Business Adm, Ajman, U Arab Emirates; [Singh, Amanpreet] Punjabi Univ, Sch Management Studies, Patiala, India; [Rai, Jaskirat Singh] Chandigarh Grp Coll, Chandigarh Sch Business, Jhanjeri, India								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000908007600001	66	Article; Article		
J	Gandrieau, J.; Schnitzler, C.; Cairney, J.; Keegan, R.; Roberts, W. M.; Barnett, L. M.; Bentsen, P.; Dudley, D. A.; Raymond Sum, K. W.; Venetsanou, F.; Button, C.; Turcotte, S.; Berrigan, F.; Cloes, M.; Rudd, J. R.; Riga, V.; Mouton, A.; Vasickova, J.; Blanchard, J.; Mekkaoui, L.; Derigny, T.; Franck, N.; Repond, R-m.; Markovic, M.; Scheuer, C.; Potdevin, F.								Development of ELIP to Assess Physical Literacy for Emerging Adults: A Methodological and Epistemological Challenge								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1169	1182		10.1080/02701367.2022.2125927			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Following increased interest in physical literacy (PL), development of appropriate tools for assessment has become an important next step for its operationalization. To forward the development of such tools, the objective of this study was to build the foundations of the evaluation de la Litteratie Physique (ELIP), designed to help reduce existing tensions in approaches to PL assessment that may be resulting in a low uptake into applied settings. Methods: We followed two steps: (1) the development of the first version of ELIP by deploying a Delphi method (n = 30); and (2) the modification of items through cognitive interviews with emerging adults (n = 32). Results: The expert consensus highlighted four dimensions of PL to be assessed-physical; affective; cognitive; and social-with new perspectives, including a preference for broad motor tests over fitness. Conclusion: Results offer new insights into the assessment of emerging adults' PL, but ELIP still requires further work concerning validity, reliability, and sensitivity.		[Gandrieau, J.; Mekkaoui, L.; Derigny, T.; Potdevin, F.] Univ Lille, Univ Artois, Univ Littoral Cote Opale, Lille, France; [Schnitzler, C.] Univ Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France; [Cairney, J.; Dudley, D. A.] Univ Queensland, St Lucia, Qld, Australia; [Keegan, R.] Univ Canberra, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Roberts, W. M.] Univ Gloucestershire, Cheltenham, England; [Roberts, W. M.] Univ Waikato, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Barnett, L. M.] Deakin Univ, Geelong, Australia; [Bentsen, P.] Copenhagen Univ Hosp Bispebjerg & Frederiksberg, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Dudley, D. A.] Macquarie Univ, Macquarie Pk, NSW, Australia; [Raymond Sum, K. W.] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Gandrieau, J.] Univ Lille, Univ Artois, Univ Littoral Cote Opale, Lille, France								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000913325100001	91	Article; Article		
J	Farnell, Alex								False Start? An Analysis of NFL Penalties With and Without Crowds								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	6			695	716		10.1177/15270025221148997			AUG 2023	2023	The lack of crowds at sports fixtures as a result of COVID-19 restrictions has allowed researchers a unique opportunity to examine the widely accepted convention of home advantage. This work takes a slightly different approach, by examining within game outcomes. Specifically using play-by-play data from the NFL, this paper asks whether the lack of crowds aided a Quarterback's ability to manipulate opposition defenses. Results suggest this was the case, though effects are not uniform by home and away team.		[Farnell, Alex] Maynooth Univ, Dept Econ, Rhetor House, Maynooth, Ireland; [Farnell, Alex] Maynooth Univ, Rhetor House, Maynooth, Kildare, Ireland; [Farnell, Alex] Maynooth Univ, Rhetor House, Maynooth, Kildare, Ireland								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000910860000001	41	Article; Article		
J	Forsse, Jeffrey S. S.; Peterson, Matthew N. N.; Papadakis, Zacharias; Taylor, J. Kyle; Hess, Burritt W. W.; Schwedock, Nicholas; Allison, D. Crawford; Griggs, Jackson O. O.; Wilson, Ronald L. L.; Grandjean, Peter W. W.								The Effect of Acute Aerobic Exercise on Biomarkers of Renal Health and Filtration in Moderate-CKD								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				95	1			1	9		10.1080/02701367.2022.2130131			JAN 2 2024	2024	Purpose: Efficacy of exercise to improve renal health and filtration remains understudied in adults with moderate-stages (stages G3a-b) of chronic kidney disease (CKD). Acute exercise may contribute clinically relevant information for exercise-related augmentation of renal health and filtration in CKD. Urine epidermal growth factor (uEGF) and cystatin C (CyC) are proposed to be more direct biomarkers of renal health and filtration. This study aimed to determine the influence of continuous moderate-intensity exercise (CMIE) and high-intensity interval exercise (HIIE) on traditional and novel biomarkers of renal health and filtration in moderate-stages of CKD. Methods: Twenty CKD participants completed 30 minutes of both CMIE and HIIE. Blood and urine samples were obtained pre, 1-hour, and 24-hours post-exercise. Traditional-serum creatinine (sCr) urine creatinine, novel-uEGF, uEGF ratio (uEGFr), and CyC. Estimates of glomerular filtration rate (eGFR)-modification of diet in renal disease (MDRD) and the CKD-Epidemiology (CKD-EPI)-responses were compared pre, 1 hr, and 24 hr post-exercise. Results: Relative to pre-exercise measures, uEGF remained unchanged in both exercise conditions. However, uEGFr was 5.4% greater 24-hours after HIIE (P = .05), while uEGFr remained unchanged with CMIE. sCr decreased 6 to 19% 1-hour post-exercise in both conditions (P = .009). On average renal filtration increased in eGFR-MDRD (7.2 +/- 2.0 ml/min/1.73 m(2)) (P = .007) and eGFR-CKD-EPI (8.6 +/- 2.3 ml/min/1.73 m(2)) 1-hour post-exercise (P = .009). Conclusion: By clinical estimates, renal filtration in CKD was not normalized but transiently improved regardless of exercise condition, with HIIE eliciting transient improvements in renal health.		[Forsse, Jeffrey S. S.] Baylor Univ, Waco, TX 76706 USA; [Peterson, Matthew N. N.] Lyon Coll, Batesville, AR 72501 USA; [Papadakis, Zacharias] Barry Univ, Miami Shores, FL 33161 USA; [Taylor, J. Kyle] Auburn Univ, Montgomery, AL 36117 USA; [Hess, Burritt W. W.; Schwedock, Nicholas; Griggs, Jackson O. O.] Family Hlth Ctr, Pittsburgh, PA 15232 USA; [Allison, D. Crawford; Wilson, Ronald L. L.] Baylor Scott & White Hlth, Dallas, TX USA; [Grandjean, Peter W. W.] Univ Mississippi, University, MS 38677 USA; [Forsse, Jeffrey S. S.] Baylor Univ, Coll Hlth & Human Sci, One Bear Pl 97313, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Forsse, Jeffrey S. S.] Baylor Univ, Coll Hlth & Human Sci, One Bear Pl 97313, Waco, TX 76798 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000908176400001	31	Article; Article		
J	Patoz, Aurelien; Lussiana, Thibault; Breine, Bastiaan; Gindre, Cyrille; Malatesta, Davide								Comparison of different machine learning models to enhance sacral acceleration-based estimations of running stride temporal variables and peak vertical ground reaction force								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			825	841		10.1080/14763141.2022.2159870			APR 3 2025	2025	Machine learning (ML) was used to predict contact (t(c)) and flight (t(f)) time, duty factor (DF) and peak vertical force (F-v,F-max) from IMU-based estimations. One hundred runners ran on an instrumented treadmill (9-13 km/h) while wearing a sacral-mounted IMU. Linear regression (LR), support vector regression and two-layer neural-network were trained (80 participants) using IMU-based estima-tions, running speed, stride frequency and body mass. Predictions (remaining 20 participants) were compared to gold standard (kinetic data collected using the force plate) by calculating the mean absolute percentage error (MAPE). MAPEs of F-v,F-max did not significantly differ among its estimation and predictions (P = 0.37), while prediction MAPEs for tc, tf and DF were significantly smaller than corresponding estimation MAPEs (P <= 0.003). There were no significant differences among prediction MAPEs obtained from the three ML models (P >= 0.80). Errors of the ML models were equal to or smaller than (<= 32%) the smallest real difference for the four variables, while errors of the estimations were not (15-45%), indi-cating that ML models were sufficiently accurate to detect a clinically important difference. The simplest ML model (LR) should be used to improve the accuracy of the IMU-based estimations. These improvements may be beneficial when monitoring running-related injury risk factors in real-world settings.		[Patoz, Aurelien; Malatesta, Davide] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Patoz, Aurelien; Lussiana, Thibault; Breine, Bastiaan; Gindre, Cyrille] Volodalen Swiss Sport Lab, Res & Dev Dept, Aigle, Switzerland; [Lussiana, Thibault; Gindre, Cyrille] Res & Dev Dept, Chaveria, France; [Lussiana, Thibault] Univ Franche Comte, Res Unit EA3920 Prognost Markers & Regulatory Fact, Hlth, Innovat Platform, Besancon, France; [Breine, Bastiaan] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Patoz, Aurelien] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000909912300001	41	Article; Article		
J	Konrad, Andreas; Tilp, Markus; Mehmeti, Leutrim; Mahnic, Nik; Seiberl, Wolfgang; Paternoster, Florian K.								The Relationship Between Lower Limb Passive Muscle and Tendon Compression Stiffness and Oxygen Cost During Running								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			28	35		10.52082/jssm.2023.28			MAR 2023	2023	Studies have reported that a stiff triceps surae muscle and tendonaponeurosis and also a more compliant quadriceps muscle and tendon-aponeurosis, are related to lower oxygen cost during running. However, to date, no study has investigated in a single experiment how oxygen cost during running is related to the stiffness of the free tendons (Achilles tendon, patellar tendon) and all the superficial muscles of two major muscle groups for running (i.e., quadriceps, triceps surae). Thus, 17 male trained runners/triathletes participated in this study and visited the laboratory on three occasions. On the first day, the participants were familiarized with the tests. On the second day, the passive compression stiffness of the triceps surae muscle (i.e., gastrocnemii), Achilles tendon, quadriceps muscle (i.e., vastii, rectus femoris), and patellar tendon was non-invasively measured using a digital palpation device (MyotonPRO). In addition, an incremental test was applied to test the VO2max of the participants. Thereafter, in the third visit, after at least 48-h of rest, participants performed a 15 min run on the treadmill with a speed reflecting a velocity of 70% VO2max, to assess oxygen costs during running. The Spearman correlation showed a significant negative correlation between passive Achilles tendon compression stiffness and running oxygen consumption, with a large effect size (r rho =-0.52; CI (95%) 0.81 to-0.33; P = 0.03). Moreover, no further significant relationship between oxygen cost during running and the passive compression stiffness of the quadriceps muscle and patellar tendon, as well as the triceps surae muscle, was detected. The significant correlation indicates that a stiffer passive Achilles tendon can lead to a lower oxygen cost during running. Future studies will have to test the causality of this relationship with training methods such as strength training that are able to increase the Achilles tendon stiffness.		[Konrad, Andreas; Tilp, Markus] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria; [Konrad, Andreas; Mehmeti, Leutrim; Mahnic, Nik; Paternoster, Florian K.] Tech Univ Munich, Biomech Sports, Munich, Germany; [Seiberl, Wolfgang] Univ Bundeswehr Munchen, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Human Sci, Neubiberg, Germany; [Konrad, Andreas] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria; [Konrad, Andreas] Tech Univ Munich, Biomech Sports, Munich, Germany								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000914196600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Santiago Parodi-Feye, Andres; Daniel Cappuccio-Diaz, Alvaro; Alberto Magallanes-Mira, Carlos								Effects of Inspiratory Muscle Training on Physiological Performance Variables in Women's Handball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			101	112		10.5114/jhk/169366			2023	2023	Inspiratory muscle training (IMT) has been used in different sports, although there is no consensus on its benefits. We investigated the effects of eight weeks of IMT in women's handball. Twenty-four players were randomly distributed into experimental (EXP; n = 13) and control (CON; n = 11) groups. Only the EXP group performed IMT using the POWERBreathe device, following indications of the manufacturers. Before and after the intervention, spirometric variables were evaluated at rest and during a graded test using direct analysis of respiratory gases. Perception of exertion at submaximal intensity was also determined. No significant differences were observed post- vs. pre-intervention (p >= 0.05) regarding forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in the 1(st) second (VEF1), FVC/VEF1, maximal expiratory flow at 50% of FVC or peak inspiratory flow. Post-intervention, only the CON group increased their absolute and relative VO2max (2.1 +/- 0.2 L/min pre vs. 2.2 +/- 0.3 L/min post; 33.6 +/- 3.6 ml/kg center dot min pre vs. 34.5 +/- 3.2 ml/kg center dot min post, respectively). No significant improvements (p >= 0.05) were observed in VO2 associated with ventilatory threshold 1 (VT1), nor in the intensity associated with VO2max and VT1. However, there was a tendency for the mentioned variables to decrease in the CON group, while in the EXP group the trend was to maintain or increase previous values. IMT did not determine an improvement in the perception of exertion at submaximal intensity. The use of POWERBreathe, as described in the present study, is feasible in terms of time and effort, although its benefits may not be significant.		[Santiago Parodi-Feye, Andres; Daniel Cappuccio-Diaz, Alvaro; Alberto Magallanes-Mira, Carlos] Univ Republ Udelar, Super Inst Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Santiago Parodi-Feye, Andres] Univ Republ Udelar, Super Inst Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Montevideo, Uruguay								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100009	42	Article; Article		
J	Agudo-Ortega, Aaron; Maria Gonzalez-Rave, Jose; Jose Salinero, Juan								Early Success is not a Prerequisite for Success at the Adult Age in Spanish Sprinters								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			139	148		10.5114/jhk/168284			2023	2023	The aim of the study was to describe the relationship between success in junior and senior categories in sprint events. An observational and longitudinal analysis was carried out using rankings of the Royal Spanish Athletics Federation database. We analysed 547 sprinters (238 women and 309 men) from their U14 to senior stage who ranked in top-20 on at least one occasion during the period 2004 to 2021. The first entry in top-20 occurred mostly in U14 (44.4%, 243), and the frequency was progressively lower: 26.7% (146) in U16; 20.8% (114) in U18; 5.1% (28) in U20; 2% (11) in U23; and 0.9% (5) in the senior category. A similar tendency was observed in male and female athletes. Only 3.8% (9) of top-20 U14 athletes reached the senior elite stage, increasing this percentage in subsequent categories: 7.4% (15) in U16; 10.6% (24) in U18; 20.9% (32) in U20, and 31.4% (32) from U23 to the senior category. Data from female athletes showed higher maintenance of top-20 status from early categories to senior age. We conclude that even though the first entry into the national top-20 in sprint events occurs early in most cases, success in these initial stages is not a prerequisite for reaching top-20 positions in the senior category.		[Agudo-Ortega, Aaron; Maria Gonzalez-Rave, Jose; Jose Salinero, Juan] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sports Sci, Sports Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Agudo-Ortega, Aaron] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sports Sci, Sports Training Lab, Toledo, Spain								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100012	43	Article; Article		
J	Makino, Mizuki; Nakayama, Koichi; Ando, Yuka; Tauchi, Kenji								Kinematic Contribution to Javelin Velocity at Different Run-Up Velocities in Male Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			43	52		10.5114/jhk/168143			2023	2023	In javelin training, many athletes improve their throwing technique by throwing from a slower run-up velocity than in competitions. However, whether the acquisition of javelin velocity in throwing from a slower run-up velocity is the same as in full run-up throwing is unclear. The purpose of this study was to clarify the differences in the contribution of each movement to the javelin velocity caused by changes in the run-up velocity within an individual. Twelve collegiate male javelin throwers were included in this study. Athletes performed two types of throws: one-cross throwing (Cross) and full run-up throwing (Run). The coordinates of reflective markers attached to the thrower's body and the javelin were recorded using an optical motion capture system. The percentage contribution of each joint movement to the javelin velocity was calculated and compared between Cross and Run. Cross had a lower contribution of trunk forward lean to forward and upward javelin velocities compared to Run. On the other hand, Cross had a higher contribution of trunk counter-clockwise rotation to forward and upward javelin velocities than Run. These results suggest that as the velocity of run-up changes within an individual, the acquisition of javelin velocity also changes.		[Makino, Mizuki; Nakayama, Koichi; Ando, Yuka] Chukyo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Tauchi, Kenji] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Makino, Mizuki] Chukyo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100004	21	Article; Article		
J	Maria Gonzalez-Rave, Jose; Antonio del Castillo, Jose; Santos del Cerro, Jesus; Hermosilla, Francisco; Pyne, David B.								Competition and Training Strategies for Developing World Class 200-and 400-m Individual Medley Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			161	169		10.5114/jhk/167381			2023	2023	Swimming performance achieved in 50-m, 100-m and 200-m events in each swimming stroke can have an influence on the final performance in individual medley (IM) events. We attempted to quantify the relative contributions of performance in individual stroke events to top-10 world ranked IM competition performance. We examined competition results of top-10 world ranked IM swimmers (90 males and 90 females) between 2012 and 2018. A general linear model was developed to examine association between the 200-m and 400-mIM and predictor variables of competition performance in other 50-m, 100-m, and 200-m events. The main predictor variable for 200-mIM medalist status was having scored more than 900 FINA points in at least one 100-m event. Scoring more than 800 FINA points in at least two 200-mIM events, and more than 900 FINA points in at least one 100-m event, was important for success in the 400-mIM. Top-10 world ranked 200-mIM and 400-mIM swimmers require a world class standard in one or more individual stroke event(s)		[Maria Gonzalez-Rave, Jose; Hermosilla, Francisco] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sports Sci, Sports Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Antonio del Castillo, Jose] Natl Inst Phys Educ, Barcelona, Spain; [Santos del Cerro, Jesus] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Law & Social Sci, Toledo, Spain; [Hermosilla, Francisco] Alfonso X El Sabio Univ, Dept Phys Act & Sports Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Hermosilla, Francisco] Nebrija Univ, Fac Life & Nat Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Pyne, David B.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Fac Hlth, Bruce, Australia; [Hermosilla, Francisco] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sports Sci, Sports Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Hermosilla, Francisco] Alfonso X El Sabio Univ, Dept Phys Act & Sports Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Hermosilla, Francisco] Nebrija Univ, Fac Life & Nat Sci, Madrid, Spain								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100014	17	Article; Article		
J	Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara; Bishop, Chris; Montalvo, Alicia M.; Busca, Bernat; Arboix-Alio, Jordi								Effects of Exercise-Induced Neuromuscular Fatigue on Jump Performance and Lower-Limb Asymmetries in Youth Female Team Sport Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			19	31		10.5114/jhk/174073			2023	2023	The objective of the present study was to examine the effect of acute neuromuscular fatigue on unilateral jump performance and inter-limb asymmetries. Thirty elite youth female team sport athletes (age: U-14 to U-18) performed the Unilateral Countermovement Jump (UCJ) and the Unilateral Drop Jump (UDJ) (18-cm box) tests before and approximately 10 minutes after the 30-15 intermittent fitness test (30-15 IFT). A paired samples t-test showed significant reductions in UCJ jump height in the right leg after the 30-15 IFT (p = 0.018; d = 0.33), but not in the left leg (p = 0.459; d = 0.48). For the UDJ, significant reductions in jump height were shown in both the right (p < 0.001; d = 0.33) and left (p < 0.001; d = 0.33) legs. In addition, for the reactive strength index (UDJ), significant reductions were seen in the left leg after the 30-15 IFT (p < 0.001; d = 0.31), but not in the right leg (p = 0.948; d < 0.001). Only UCJ inter-limb jump height asymmetries increased significantly post 30-15 IFT (p = 0.033; d = 0.46). In conclusion, the current study indicates that the 30-15 IFT provides a sufficient dose of activity for inducing acute fatigue in elite youth female team sport athletes. Therefore, monitoring jump height in unilateral jump testing is recommended given the tests' sensitivity to detect significant differences in physical performance and inter-limb asymmetries under acutely fatigued conditions in healthy youth female athletes.		[Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara; Busca, Bernat; Arboix-Alio, Jordi] Ramon Llull Univ, Fac Psychol, Educ Sci & Sport FPCEE Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara; Arboix-Alio, Jordi] Ramon Llull Univ, Sch Hlth Sci FCS Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Catalan Fed Basketball, Segle Female Basketball Team 21, Esplugas de Llobregat, Spain; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Montalvo, Alicia M.] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth Solut, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Ramon Llull Univ, Fac Psychol, Educ Sci & Sport FPCEE Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Ramon Llull Univ, Sch Hlth Sci FCS Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Catalan Fed Basketball, Segle Female Basketball Team 21, Esplugas de Llobregat, Spain								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100002	36	Article; Article		
J	Jaworska, Marzena; Siatkowski, Szymon; Zebrowska, Aleksandra								The Effects of Omega-3 Fatty Acid Supplementation on the Lipid Profile and Cardiovascular Markers Following Downhill Running in Long-Distance Runners								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			123	138		10.5114/jhk/174107			2023	2023	Exercise-induced injury may intensify inflammatory response and reduce the cardiovascular protection mechanisms of omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega 3 PUFA). Therefore, this study aimed to determine the erythrocyte content of fatty acids (omega 3 and omega 6), the levels of cardiac damage markers (CKMB, hsTnT, H - FABP), the concentration of inflammation mediators (IL-6, TNF alpha) in long distance runners supplemented with omega 3 PUFA. Twenty-four male long distance runners, who were randomly assigned to a placebo group (GrP) or a group supplemented (GrSuppl) with a daily dose of 3,000 mg of omega 3 PUFA for three weeks, participated in the study. Participants performed a downhill running exercise test. Blood samples were collected at rest and after the exercise protocol to analyse the levels of cardiac markers and inflammatory cytokines. The erythrocyte membrane content of EPA and DHA in the GrSuppl at the 3(rd) week of supplementation was significantly higher than at the baseline (p < 0.001). The erythrocyte membrane content of omega 3 PUFA in the GrSuppl was significantly higher at the completion of supplementation (p < 0.001). Supplementation with omega 3 PUFA improved blood lipid profiles and reduced the concentration of inflammation mediators measured after the eccentric exercise tests. The increased omega 3 PUFA content in the erythrocyte membrane and lower blood concentrations of cardiac damage markers and inflammation mediators in distance runners supplemented for three weeks with omega 3 PUFA suggest that the cardiovascular function has been improved.		[Jaworska, Marzena; Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Physiol & Med Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Siatkowski, Szymon; Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Hlth Living, Katowice, Poland; [Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Physiol & Med Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Hlth Living, Katowice, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100011	57	Article; Article		
J	Feletti, Francesco; Bracco, Cristian; Molisso, Maria Takeko; Bova, Lorenzo; Aliverti, Andrea								Analysis of Fluency of Movement in Parkour Using a Video and Inertial Measurement Unit Technology								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			5	18		10.5114/jhk/166581			2023	2023	Fluency is a movement parameter combining smoothness and hesitation, and its objective measurement may be used to determine the effects of practice on sports performance. This study aimed to measure fluency in parkour, an acrobatic discipline comprising complex non-cyclical movements, which involves fluency as a critical aspect of performance. Inter-individual fluidity differences between advanced and novice athletes as well as intra-individual variations of fluency between different parts and subsequent repetitions of a path were addressed. Seventeen parkour participants were enrolled and divided into two groups based on their experience. We analysed signals captured from an inertial measurement unit fixed on the back of the pelvis of each participant during three consecutive repetitions of a specifically designed parkour routine under the guidance of video analysis. Two fluency parameters, namely smoothness and hesitation, were measured. Smoothness was calculated as the number of inflexions on the so-called jerk graph; hesitation was the percentage of the drop in the centre of mass velocity. Smoothness resulted in significantly lower values in advanced athletes (mean: 126.4; range: 36-192) than in beginners (mean: 179.37; range: 98-272) during one of the three motor activities (p = 0.02). A qualitative analysis of hesitation showed that beginner athletes tended to experience more prominent velocity drops and negative deflection than more advanced athletes. In conclusion, a system based on a video and an inertial measurement unit is a promising approach for quantification and the assessment of variability of fluency, and it is potentially beneficial to guide and evaluate the training process.		[Feletti, Francesco; Bracco, Cristian; Molisso, Maria Takeko; Aliverti, Andrea] Politecn Milan, Dept Elect Informat & Bioengn, Milan, Italy; [Feletti, Francesco] Ausl Romagna S Maria Croci Hosp, Dept Radiol, Ravenna, Italy; [Feletti, Francesco] Univ Ferrara, Dept Translat Med & Romagna, Ferrara, Italy; [Bova, Lorenzo] Univ Padua, Dept Ind Engn DII, Padua, Italy; [Bova, Lorenzo] UCLA, David Geffen Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Feletti, Francesco] Politecn Milan, Dept Elect Informat & Bioengn, Milan, Italy; [Feletti, Francesco] Ausl Romagna S Maria Croci Hosp, Dept Radiol, Ravenna, Italy; [Feletti, Francesco] Univ Ferrara, Dept Translat Med & Romagna, Ferrara, Italy								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Loturco, Irineu; Freitas, Tomas T.; Zabaloy, Santiago; Pereira, Lucas A.; Moura, Tulio B. M. A.; Fernandes, Victor; Mercer, Valter P.; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Zajac, Adam; Bishop, Chris								Speed Training Practices of Brazilian Olympic Sprint and Jump Coaches: Toward a Deeper Understanding of Their Choices and Insights (Part II)								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			187	211		10.5114/jhk/174071			2023	2023	This is the second article in a three-article collection regarding the plyometric, speed, and resistance training practices of Brazilian Olympic sprint and jump coaches. Here, we list and describe six out of the ten speed training methods most commonly employed by these experts to enhance the sprinting capabilities of their athletes. Maximum speed sprinting, form running, resisted sprinting, overspeed running, uphill and downhill running, and sport-specific movement methods are critically examined with reference to their potential application in different sport contexts. In an era when sprint speed is of critical importance across numerous sports, practitioners can employ the methods outlined here to design efficient training programs for their athletes.		[Loturco, Irineu; Freitas, Tomas T.; Pereira, Lucas A.; Moura, Tulio B. M. A.; Fernandes, Victor; Mercer, Valter P.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu; Freitas, Tomas T.] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Dept Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Freitas, Tomas T.; Alcaraz, Pedro E.] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomas T.] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, Fac Deporte, Murcia, Spain; [Zabaloy, Santiago] Univ Flores, Fac Phys Act & Sports, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Zajac, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Dept Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100016	139	Article; Article		
J	Ventura, Thiago Pereira; Borszcz, Fernando Klitzke; Antunes, Diego; Caputo, Fabrizio; Turnes, Tiago								Prediction of Exercise Tolerance in the Severe and Extreme Intensity Domains by a Critical Power Model								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			113	122		10.5114/jhk/170101			2023	2023	This study aimed to assess the predictive capability of different critical power (CP) models on cycling exercise tolerance in the severe- and extreme-intensity domains. Nineteen cyclists (age: 23.0 +/- 2.7 y) performed several time-to-exhaustion tests (Tlim) to determine CP, finite work above CP (W '), and the highest constant work rate at which maximal oxygen consumption was attained (I-HIGH). Hyperbolic power-time, linear power-inverse of time, and work-time models with three predictive trials were used to determine CP and W '. Modeling with two predictive trials of the CP work-time model was also used to determine CP and W'. Actual exercise tolerance of I-HIGH and intensity 5% above I-HIGH (IHIGH+5%) were compared to those predicted by all CP models. Actual I-HIGH (155 +/- 30 s) and IHIGH+5% (120 +/- 26 s) performances were not different from those predicted by all models with three predictive trials. Modeling with two predictive trials overestimated Tlim at IHIGH+5% (129 +/- 33 s; p = 0.04). Bland-Altman plots of IHIGH+5% presented significant heteroscedasticity by all CP predictions, but not for I-HIGH. Exercise tolerance in the severe and extreme domains can be predicted by CP derived from three predictive trials. However, this ability is impaired within the extreme domain.		[Ventura, Thiago Pereira; Borszcz, Fernando Klitzke; Antunes, Diego; Turnes, Tiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Phys Effort Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Caputo, Fabrizio] Santa Catarina State Univ, Human Performance Res Grp, Ctr Hlth Sci & Sport, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Ventura, Thiago Pereira] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Phys Effort Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100010	29	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Wei; Gregg, Melanie J.; Liu, Hairui								The Impact of Hemispheric Activity Priming on Choking Under Pressure in Badminton Tasks: A Study of Three Fundamental Skills								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			301	311		10.5114/jhk/173023			2023	2023	Choking under pressure occurs when an individual experiences a decrease in performance despite their efforts to perform well. The self-focus approach suggests that pressure increases conscious attention on the performance process, disrupting the automatic or overlearned nature of execution. Hemispheric asymmetries in the brain and skilled performance indicate that left-hemispheric activity decreases, while right-hemispheric activity enhances. Previous studies have attempted to prevent choking by inhibiting the left hemisphere or enhancing the right hemisphere's activity. This study examined whether increased hemispheric activity priming can extenuate motor skill failure under pressure in badminton tasks. The study involved 32 right-handed college students who completed five conditions in pressure-free blocks versus choking under-pressure blocks with priming intervention. Results showed a significant improvement in motor learning from pre- to post-tests, but participants still choked under pressure during skill execution. Furthermore, the priming strategy (hand squeezing) did not alleviate the pressure to benefit performance. The study provides evidence of performance decrements under pressure conditions, and the priming strategy did not alleviate choking.		[Wang, Wei] Hubei Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Huangshi, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Gregg, Melanie J.] Univ Winnipeg, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Hlth, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Liu, Hairui] Univ North Dakota, Dept Educ Hlth & Behav Studies, Grand Forks, ND 58202 USA; [Liu, Hairui] Univ North Dakota, Dept Educ Hlth & Behav Studies, Grand Forks, ND 58202 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100024	24	Article; Article		
J	Marques, Rui; Martins, Fernando; Gomes, Ricardo; Martinho, Diogo V.; Mendes, Rui; Moore, Sarah A.; Coelho-e-Silva, Manuel J.; Dias, Goncalo								Visual Information in Basketball Jump-Shots: Differences between Youth and Adult Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			65	75		10.5114/jhk/163447			2023	2023	Basketball shooting is a complex skill that requires visual routines and trained players typically evidence a specific oculomotor pattern. This study aimed to examine visual patterns in male novice youth and professional adult players while performing a jump shot. The sample included 20 basketball players grouped as under-16 youth (n = 10) and professional adult (n = 10) players. Each participant completed 50 shots at two distances (long range: 6.80 m; middle range: 4.23 m). Eye tracking glasses were used to obtain quiet eye (QE), the number of fixations, total fixation duration, duration of first and last fixation. An independent t-test was used to assess differences between groups. Shooting accuracy given by % of efficacy indicated that under-16 players attained poorer scores at both distances: long (t = -4.75, p < 0.01) and middle (t = -2.80, p < 0.012) distance. The groups also differed in QE time (long: 600 ms vs. 551 ms; middle: 572 ms vs. 504 ms) and total duration of the fixations (long: 663 ms vs. 606 ms; middle: 663 ms vs. 564 ms) in both long and middle distance shots. Significant differences also occurred in the last fixation (long distance: t = -4.301, p < 0.01; middle distance: t = -3.656, p < 0.01) with professional adult players presenting the value of, on average, 454-458 ms, while youth shooters 363-372 ms. In summary, visual strategy differed between under-16 youth and professional adult basketball players. To support their long-term sport development, it is recommended that youth basketball players focus their attention with longer final fixation before releasing the ball to improve their shot.		[Marques, Rui; Martinho, Diogo V.; Mendes, Rui; Coelho-e-Silva, Manuel J.; Dias, Goncalo] Univ Coimbra, FCDEF, Coimbra, Portugal; [Marques, Rui; Martins, Fernando; Gomes, Ricardo; Dias, Goncalo] Delegacao Covilha, Inst Telecomuncaoes, Covilha, Portugal; [Martins, Fernando; Gomes, Ricardo; Mendes, Rui; Dias, Goncalo] Escola Super Educ Coimbra, Inst Politecn Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; [Martins, Fernando; Gomes, Ricardo; Mendes, Rui; Dias, Goncalo] Inst Politecn Coimbra, Lab ROBOCORP, IIA, Coimbra, Portugal; [Gomes, Ricardo; Martinho, Diogo V.; Mendes, Rui; Coelho-e-Silva, Manuel J.; Dias, Goncalo] Univ Coimbra, CIDAF uid 04213 2020, Coimbra, Portugal; [Moore, Sarah A.] Dalhousie Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Fac Hlth, Halifax, NS, Canada; [Martinho, Diogo V.] Univ Coimbra, FCDEF, Coimbra, Portugal; [Martinho, Diogo V.] Univ Coimbra, CIDAF uid 04213 2020, Coimbra, Portugal								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100006	52	Article; Article		
J	Park, Inkyoung; So, Wi-Young; Lee, Eui-Jae								Differences in Effort, Reward, Grit, Burnout, and Continuous Exercise Intention: Assessing the Effort-Reward Imbalance among Korean Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			327	340		10.5114/jhk/173018			2023	2023	Although studies have shown that an imbalance between effort and reward in the workplace negatively affects an individual's physiological and mental health, few have looked at how this imbalance may affect the mental state of athletes. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the importance of the effort-reward imbalance (ERI) in athletes by examining whether psychological variables would differ depending on the ERI. To accomplish this, 795 registered collegiate athletes were recruited. Of them, 227 and 230 responses with the ERI in the bottom and in the top 30% of the ERI scale were selected to compare groups with a high and a low ERI. Athletes completed a self-reported 64-item questionnaire (general characteristics: 5; effort: 14; rewards: 14; grit: 12; burnout: 15; and continuous exercise intention: 4 items). Data analysis included reliability and validity using the Jamovi and SPSS/AMOS software. The results showed no significant differences in effort, reward, grit, burnout, and intention to continue to exercise based on gender, weekly training frequency, and hours of training per day. There were differences in effort, reward, grit, burnout, and intention to continue exercising based on the presence of a professional league. Additionally, differences were found in effort, reward, grit, burnout, and intention to continue exercising between the low and high ERI groups. There was a clear difference between the mental state of those who were satisfied with their effort and reward, and those who were not. However, given that the two groups spent approximately the same amount of time exercising each week, the difference may have been more a function of the psychology of athletes than an actual difference in effort and reward. As our findings confirmed that the level of the ERI in athletes is related to their mental state, further research is necessary to identify and control factors that affect the ERI in athletes.		[Park, Inkyoung] Seoul Natl Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [So, Wi-Young] Korea Natl Univ Transportat, Coll Humanities & Arts, Sports Med Major, Chungju Si, South Korea; [Lee, Eui-Jae] Sogang Univ, Grad Sch Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [So, Wi-Young] Korea Natl Univ Transportat, Coll Humanities & Arts, Sports Med Major, Chungju Si, South Korea; [Lee, Eui-Jae] Sogang Univ, Grad Sch Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100026	46	Article; Article		
J	Antonio Gutierrez-Santiago, Jesus; Prieto-Lage, Ivan; Parames-Gonzalez, Adrian; Carlos Argibay-Gonzalez, Juan; Reguera-Lopez-de-la-Osa, Xoana; Gutierrez-Santiago, Alfonso								Should Blind Judokas and Partially Sighted Judokas Compete Together? A Reflection from the Study of the Temporal Structure of Combat								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			279	288		10.5114/jhk/163281			2023	2023	The investigation of the temporal structure of Para judo combat according to sport classes or visual categories (B1, B2 and B3) has only been carried out in women. The objectives of the study were to analyze the differences in the temporal structure of combat between the male para-judokas sport classes, and to determine whether blind judokas and partially sighted judokas should compete together. All para-judokas who competed in the 2018 IBSA Judo World Championships (172 men) participated in the study. Using observational methodology, we analyzed all the combats (n = 232). To obtain the results, we used different analysis techniques: descriptive, one-way ANOVA, t-test for independent samples and effect size. The level of significance established for the study was rho <= 0.05. The results indicate that during pauses, time dedicated to displacement was increased when there was a B1 judoka in the pairing, causing pauses to be significantly longer. Coaches should take this into account. In conclusion, there are differences between particular visual categories. B1 judokas have longer pauses, perform more ground fighting sequences and win fewer combats. The competition is not on equal terms. More research is needed in order to determine if new regulations have modified the combat temporality.		[Antonio Gutierrez-Santiago, Jesus; Prieto-Lage, Ivan; Parames-Gonzalez, Adrian; Carlos Argibay-Gonzalez, Juan; Gutierrez-Santiago, Alfonso] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport, Observat Res Grp, Pontevedra, Spain; [Reguera-Lopez-de-la-Osa, Xoana] UVIGO, SERGAS, Educ Phys Act & Hlth Res Grp Gies10 DE3, Galicia Sur Hlth Res Inst IIS Galicia Sur, Vigo, Spain; [Prieto-Lage, Ivan] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport, Observat Res Grp, Pontevedra, Spain								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100022	31	Article; Article		
J	Furuhashi, Yuki; Hioki, Yusuke; Maemura, Hirohiko; Hayashi, Ryohei								External Focus Affects Drop Jump Performance: Focusing on Different Aims and Words of Instruction								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			33	41		10.5114/jhk/159235			2023	2023	Attentional focus strategies eliciting external focus of attention effectively enhance drop jump (DJ) performance, however, their effects vary depending on the words used for the instructions. We aimed to examine the effects of different words on DJ performance using instructions eliciting external focus to minimize contact time (CT) or maximize jump height (JH). Twenty collegiate athletes performed DJs from a 30-cm platform after receiving one of the four instructions: two instructions (COND 1 and 2) about minimizing CT, and two instructions (COND 3 and 4) about maximizing JH. The reactive strength index (RSI), CT, JH, relative peak vertical ground reaction force (vGRF), and leg stiffness (k(vert)) were compared between conditions using repeated-measures analysis of variance. There was no significant main effect of conditions on the RSI, relative peak vGRF, and k(vert) (p > 0.05). CT was significantly shorter under CONDs 1 and 2 than COND 3 (p < 0.05); JH was significantly higher under COND 3 than CONDs 1 and 2 (p < 0.05), and under COND 4 than COND 1 (p < 0.05). When using attentional focus strategies in DJ, it is necessary to use different words and purposes according to the players' tasks.		[Furuhashi, Yuki] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, Ibaraki, Japan; [Hioki, Yusuke] Hyogo Univ Teachers Educ, Sch Educ, Joint Grad Sch Sci, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Maemura, Hirohiko] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Ibaraki, Japan; [Hayashi, Ryohei] Gifu Univ, Fac Educ, Gifu, Japan; [Hayashi, Ryohei] Gifu Univ, Fac Educ, Gifu, Japan								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100003	36	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Sobrino, Jesus; Veiga, Santiago; del Cerro, Jesus S.; Maria Gonzalez-Rave, Jose								What is the Most Important Leg and Discipline in Triathlon Mixed Team Relays?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			269	278		10.5114/jhk/167088			2023	2023	This study aimed to determine the importance of the different relay legs and sport disciplines in the overall result of the triathlon Mixed Team Relay (MTR) events. The study analysed the results of 80 Mixed Team Relay triathlon teams (n = 320 professional triathletes) corresponding to the top ten finishers at the World Championships in Hamburg from 2013 to 2020. Split times, average speeds, time behind the race leader (gap), partial and finishing positions, as well as the rank positions of every segment, relay leg, and overall race were computed. Decision tree analyses were conducted as a predictive method for the overall results, and correspondence analyses were conducted to examine the relationship between the different relay legs and segments and the finishing positions. Running was the variable with the greatest importance (32%) in the overall result, followed by female team members (17%) and the third relay leg (17%). The swimming segments (1%) and the fourth relay leg (1%) had the lowest relevance. Medallist relay teams were characterised by cycling and running faster than 10.99 m/s and 5.59 m/s, respectively, with time gaps of less than 43 seconds by the end of the third relay leg. A reliable and accurate prediction model for the medallists' and finalists' team positions in the Mixed Team Relay triathlon was obtained. The running disciplines and performance of female team members, especially in the third leg, were ascertained to be the most significant determinants for the overall Mixed Team Relay result.		[Martinez-Sobrino, Jesus; Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain; [Martinez-Sobrino, Jesus] Spanish Triathlon Federat, Madrid, Spain; [del Cerro, Jesus S.] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Dept Stat, Toledo, Spain; [Maria Gonzalez-Rave, Jose] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sports Sci, Sports Training Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100021	24	Article; Article		
J	Psotta, Rudolf; Valtr, Ludvik; Dostal, Daniel								The Effects of Quiet Eye Training on Attention in Children with ADHD								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				89	1			53	63		10.5114/jhk/168267			2023	2023	Based on linkage between attention control, gaze and visuomotor control, previous studies suggested that quiet eye training (QET) could improve attention control. The aim of the study was to investigate the effects of QET-based visuomotor intervention on different aspects of attention in children with ADHD. Fifty seven children with ADHD aged 9-12 years, were tested on focused, tonic and phasic attention, as well as attention control during a throwing task analysed via eye tracking, in pre- and post-test sessions, six weeks apart. The QET group that underwent specific 5-week QET-based intervention significantly increased focused attention including its accuracy aspect. Reaction times (RTs) and intraindividual RT variability under non-alert and alert conditions as measures of tonic and phasic attention did not change over time in either group. In contrast with the control (CON) group, an extended total time of eye fixations during the pre-throw and throw phase was found in the QET group after the intervention. The results of this study suggest that focused attention in children with ADHD can be improved by a short-term QET-based visuomotor intervention. Future research needs to examine the effects of a longer QET-based intervention, or the intervention in combination with other cognitive training of attention.		[Psotta, Rudolf; Valtr, Ludvik] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Psotta, Rudolf] Coll Phys Culture & Sport PALESTRA, Prague, Czech Republic; [Dostal, Daniel] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Arts, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Psotta, Rudolf] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Psotta, Rudolf] Coll Phys Culture & Sport PALESTRA, Prague, Czech Republic								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001147030100005	26	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Zhenhuan; Atakan, Muhammed M.; Acar, Burak; Xiong, Rui; Peng, Li								Effects of 4-Week Low-Load Resistance Training with Blood Flow Restriction on Muscle Strength and Left Ventricular Function in Young Swimmers: A Pilot Randomized Trial								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			63	76		10.5114/jhk/163013			2023	2023	Low-load resistance training combined with blood flow restriction (BFR) is known to result in muscle hypertrophy and strength similar to that observed with higher loads. However, the effects of resistance training with BFR on cardiac structure and cardiac function remain largely unknown. Therefore, the purpose of this randomized study was to compare the effects of conventional high-load resistance training (HL-RT) with the effects of low-load resistance training with BFR (LL-BFR) on muscle strength and left ventricular function. Sixteen young swimmers (mean +/- standard deviation: age = 19.7 +/- 1.6 years, body mass = 78.9 +/- 9.7 kg, body height = 180.8 +/- 5.8 cm) were randomly allocated to a conventional HL-RT group (n = 8) or a LL-BFR group (n = 8) with a pressure band (200 mmHg) placed on both thighs of participants for 4 weeks (3 days.week(-1)). Outcome measures were taken at baseline and after 4 weeks of training, and included body composition, one-repetition maximum (1RM) back squat, and echocardiography measures. The 1RM back squat significantly improved (partial eta squared (.2) = 0.365; p = 0.013) in HL-RT (mean difference (.) = 6.6 kg; [95% confidence interval (CI) -7.09 to 20.27]) and LL-BFR groups (Delta = 14.7 kg; [95% CI 3.39 to 26.10]), with no main effect of group or group x time interaction (p > 0.05). Interventricular septum end-systolic thickness showed a slight but statistically significant increase in LL-BFR and HL-RT groups (eta(2) = 0.253; p = 0.047), yet there was no main effect of group or group x time interaction (p > 0.05). There were no statistically significant changes (p > 0.05) in other cardiac structure or function parameters (e.g., left ventricular (LV) mass, LV cardiac output, LV ejection fraction, LV stroke volume) after the training programs. Results suggest that 4 weeks of HL-RT and LL-BFR improve muscle strength similarly with limited effects on left ventricular function in young swimmers.		[Wang, Zhenhuan; Xiong, Rui; Peng, Li] Southwest Univ, Key Lab Gen Adm Sport, Chongqing, Peoples R China; [Wang, Zhenhuan] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Atakan, Muhammed M.] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Div Exercise Nutr & Metab, Ankara, Turkiye; [Acar, Burak] Kocaeli Univ, Dept Cardiol, Fac Med, Kocaeli, Turkiye; [Peng, Li] Southwest Univ, Key Lab Gen Adm Sport, Chongqing, Peoples R China; [Atakan, Muhammed M.] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Div Exercise Nutr & Metab, Ankara, Turkiye								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800003	67	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Rodenas, Joaquin; Moreno-Perez, Victor; Lopez-Del Campo, Roberto; Resta, Ricardo; Del Coso, Juan								Evolution of Tactics in Professional Soccer: An Analysis of Team Formations from 2012 to 2021 in the Spanish LaLiga								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			207	216		10.5114/jhk/167468			2023	2023	The aim of this investigation was to explore the evolution of team formations (TFs) in a top national professional soccer league. A comparative analysis of a total of 3420 matches was performed in 32 professional soccer teams that competed from the 2012/13 to the 2020/21 season in the Spanish LaLiga. The frequency distribution of TFs across seasons presented a statistically significant change (p < 0.001). A 4.2-3.1 TF was most common from 2012/13 to 2016/17, while a 4.4.2 TF was most used from 2017/18 to 2020/2021. TFs such as 4.3.3 and 4.5.1 showed a relatively stable trend over the seasons. Overall, there was a reduction of TFs with 5 midfielders and an increase in the frequency of 2-forward formations (p < 0.001). When the ranking of teams was considered, a 4.3.3 TF was implemented with higher frequency by the Champion and teams that qualified for the Champions League (p < 0.05). However, a 4.2-3.1 TF was most frequent for teams qualified for the UEFA Europa League or teams that got relegated to an inferior category (p < 0.05). These findings highlight that teams competing in LaLiga evolved from the implementation of very few TFs led by the 4.2-3.1 TF, towards a more diverse scenario with a greater variety of tactical positional structures.		[Gonzalez-Rodenas, Joaquin; Del Coso, Juan] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Madrid, Spain; [Moreno-Perez, Victor] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Alicante, Spain; [Lopez-Del Campo, Roberto; Resta, Ricardo] LaLiga, Dept Competit & Mediacoach, Madrid, Spain; [Gonzalez-Rodenas, Joaquin] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Madrid, Spain								27							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800016	24	Article; Article		
J	Uysal, Huseyin Sahin; Ojeda-Aravena, Alex; Ulas, Mehmet; Baez-San Martin, Eduardo; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo								Validity, Reliability, and Sensitivity of Mobile Applications to Assess Change of Direction Speed								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			217	228		10.5114/jhk/167465			2023	2023	This study aimed to assess the validity, reliability, and sensitivity of mobile applications for assessing change-of-direction speed (CODS) performance. Thirty college athletes performed two Illinois CODS tests during one session. Assessments were carried out simultaneously using six devices (the CODTimer app, Seconds Count app, StopwatchCamera app, two analog stopwatches, and timing gates). Validity analyses included Pearson's product-moment correlation analysis, a linear regression model, and Bland-Altman plots. Reliability analyses included the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC), the coefficient of variation (CV%), and the paired-sample t test. Sensitivity analyses included the typical error and smallest worthwhile change (SWC). The results showed that validity, reliability, and sensitivity values were higher for the CODTimer app (r = 0.99, R2 = 0.99, mean bias = -0.03 +/- 0.10, CV% = 3.21, ICC = 0.89, SWC rating: good, p = 0.84) and the Seconds Count app (r = 0.99, R-2 = 0.99, mean bias = -0.03 +/- 0.08, CV% = 3.28, ICC = 0.88, SWC rating: good, p = 0.84) relative to the StopwatchCamera app (r = 0.98, R-2 = 0.97, mean bias = -0.11 +/- 0.22, CV% = 3.43, ICC = 0.86, SWC rating: marginal, p = 0.10), Analog Stopwatch 1 (r = 0.98, R-2 = 0.96, mean bias = -0.09 +/- 0.42, CV% = 2.95, ICC = 0.90, SWC rating: good, p = 0.91), and Analog Stopwatch 2 (r = 0.99, R2 = 0.97, mean bias = -0.12 +/- 0.88, CV% = 3.51, ICC = 0.87, SWC rating: marginal, p = 0.96). In conclusion, compared to timing gates, the CODTimer app and Seconds Count app provided lower measurement bias and higher sensitivity for assessing CODS performance.		[Uysal, Huseyin Sahin; Ulas, Mehmet] Burdur Mehmet Akif Ersoy Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Educ, Fac Sports Sci, Burdur, Turkiye; [Ojeda-Aravena, Alex] Pontificia Univ Catolica Valparaiso, Phys Educ Sch, Valparaiso, Chile; [Baez-San Martin, Eduardo] Univ Vina del Mar, Carrera Entrenador Deport, Escuela Educ, Vina Del Mar, Chile; [Baez-San Martin, Eduardo] Univ Playa Ancha, Dept Sports Sci, Valparaiso, Chile; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Andres Bello, Fac Rehabil Sci, Sch Phys Therapy, Exercise & Rehabil Sci Inst, Santiago, Chile; [Ojeda-Aravena, Alex] Pontificia Univ Catolica Valparaiso, Phys Educ Sch, Valparaiso, Chile								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800015	38	Article; Article		
J	Xiang, Liangliang; Gu, Yaodong; Wang, Alan; Shim, Vickie; Gao, Zixiang; Fernandez, Justin								Foot Pronation Prediction with Inertial Sensors during Running: A Preliminary Application of Data-Driven Approaches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			29	40		10.5114/jhk/163059			2023	2023	Abnormal foot postures may affect foot movement and joint loading during locomotion. Investigating foot posture alternation during running could contribute to injury prevention and foot mechanism study. This study aimed to develop feature-based and deep learning algorithms to predict foot pronation during prolonged running. Thirty-two recreational runners have been recruited for this study. Nine-axial inertial sensors were attached to the right dorsum of the foot and the vertical axis of the distal anteromedial tibia. This study employed feature-based machine learning algorithms, including support vector machine (SVM), extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost), random forest, and deep learning, i.e., one-dimensional convolutional neural networks (CNN1D), to predict foot pronation. A custom nested kfold cross-validation was designed for hyper-parameter tuning and validating the model's performance. The XGBoot classifier achieved the best accuracy using acceleration and angular velocity data from the foot dorsum as input. Accuracy and the area under curve (AUC) were 74.7 +/- 5.2% and 0.82 +/- 0.07 for the subject-independent model and 98 +/- 0.4% and 0.99 +/- 0 for the record-wise method. The test accuracy of the CNN1D model with sensor data at the foot dorsum was 74 +/- 3.8% for the subject-wise approach with an AUC of 0.8 +/- 0.05. This study found that these algorithms, specifically for the CNN1D and XGBoost model with inertial sensor data collected from the foot dorsum, could be implemented into wearable devices, such as a smartwatch, for monitoring a runner's foot pronation during long-distance running. It has the potential for running shoe matching and reducing or preventing foot posture-induced injuries.		[Xiang, Liangliang; Gu, Yaodong; Gao, Zixiang; Fernandez, Justin] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Xiang, Liangliang; Gu, Yaodong; Wang, Alan; Shim, Vickie; Fernandez, Justin] Univ Auckland, Auckland Bioengn Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Wang, Alan] Univ Auckland, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Gao, Zixiang] Univ Pannonia, Fac Engn, Veszprem, Hungary; [Fernandez, Justin] Univ Auckland, Dept Engn Sci, Fac Engn, Auckland, New Zealand; [Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Ningbo, Peoples R China; [Gu, Yaodong] Univ Auckland, Auckland Bioengn Inst, Auckland, New Zealand								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800005	31	Article; Article		
J	Garbisu-Hualde, Arkaitz; Gutierrez, Laura; Santos-Concejero, Jordan								Post-Activation Performance Enhancement as a Strategy to Improve Bench Press Performance to Volitional Failure								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			199	206		10.5114/jhk/162958			2023	2023	Post-Activation Performance Enhancement (PAPE) has been commonly used as a strategy to improve acute force production, although its effects on performance to volitional failure are still unknown. The aim of this study was to analyse the influence of a PAPE protocol on bench press performance in a training set to volitional failure in trained individuals. Fourteen participants with at least two years of resistance training experience (age 24.57 +/- 2.7 years; body mass 77.47 +/- 12.2 kg; body height 174.21 +/- 7.4 cm; medium grip bench press 1 repetition maximum (1RM): 101.6 +/- 25.8 kg), of which 14 completed the control protocol and 12 completed the experimental protocol, took part in the study. After a standardised warm-up, participants completed three sessions: 1) a 1RM test for the medium grip bench press, 2) a control condition consisting of a set of the bench press to volitional failure with 80% 1RM (CON), and 3) an experimental condition consisting of a set of the bench press to volitional failure with 80% 1RM after a PAPE protocol (PAPE). The PAPE protocol consisted of a heavy set of one repetition with their 93% 1RM as the conditioning activity. Under the PAPE condition, participants performed significantly more repetitions than under the CON condition (p = 0.008, ES = 0.5, small effect), their last repetition was slower (p = 0.02, ES = 0.52, small effect) and presented a higher velocity loss (p = 0.004, ES = 0.75, moderate effect). These results suggest that a traditional PAPE protocol improves the number of repetitions performed to volitional failure.		[Garbisu-Hualde, Arkaitz; Gutierrez, Laura; Santos-Concejero, Jordan] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Garbisu-Hualde, Arkaitz] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Freitas, Tomas T.; Moura, Tulio B. M. A.; Mercer, Valter P.; Fernandes, Victor; Moura, Neilton S. A.; Moura, Nelio A.; Zajac, Adam; Bishop, Chris								Plyometric Training Practices of Brazilian Olympic Sprint and Jump Coaches: Toward a Deeper Understanding of Their Choices and Insights								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			131	150					2023	2023	Plyometric training is extensively used by coaches to enhance neuromuscular performance in a wide variety of sports. Due to the high demands of sprint speed and power output in elite sprinters and jumpers, sprint and jump coaches are likely to have great knowledge on this topic. Undoubtedly, this expertise is even more pronounced for Olympic coaches, who work with some of the fastest and most powerful athletes in the world, and who are required to continually maintain these athletes at optimal performance levels. Describing and discussing the practices commonly adopted by these coaches in detail and extrapolating this experience to other sport coaching contexts and disciplines may be extremely relevant. The current article presents, explores, and illustrates the plyometric training practices of Brazilian Olympic sprint and jump coaches, with a special focus on training programming and exercise selection.		[Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Freitas, Tomas T.; Moura, Tulio B. M. A.; Mercer, Valter P.; Fernandes, Victor] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Freitas, Tomas T.] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Freitas, Tomas T.] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomas T.] UCAM Univ Catolica Murcia, Fac Deporte, Murcia, Spain; [Moura, Neilton S. A.] UNG Univ Guarulhos, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Moura, Nelio A.] Pinheiros Sport Club, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Moura, Nelio A.] Chinese Athlet Assoc, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zajac, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800020	121	Article; Article		
J	Tsoukos, Athanasios; Bogdanis, Gregory C.								Lower Fatigue in the Eccentric than the Concentric Phase of a Bench Press Set Executed with Maximum Velocity to Failure Against Both Heavy and Light Loads								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			119	129		10.5114/jhk/168792			2023	2023	We examined changes in barbell velocity and surface electromyographic activity (sEMG) during the concentric (CON) and eccentric (ECC) phases of a bench press set. Ten men executed a set to instant exhaustion as fast as possible, against a low (40% 1-RM) and a heavy load (80% 1-RM), one week apart. The reduction in mean barbell velocity was lower in the ECC compared with the CON phase for both loads (40%1-RM: ECC: -36 +/- 21% vs. CON: -63 +/- 14%, p < 0.001; 80%1-RM: ECC: -26 +/- 15% vs. CON: -59 +/- 9%, p < 0.001). Under both loading conditions, sEMG activity of the pectoralis major increased in the last compared to the first repetitions only in the CON phase (by 48.6% and 24.8%, p < 0.01, in the 40% and 80%1-RM, respectively). Similarly, triceps brachii sEMG increased by 15.7% (p = 0.02) and by 21.0% (p < 0.001) during the CON phase in the 40% and 80%1-RM conditions, respectively. However, during the ECC phase, sEMG remained unchanged in the last part of the set for both muscles and loads except for 80%1-RM in the pectoralis major muscle. It was concluded that fatigue measured by velocity loss was lower during the ECC than the CON phase of the bench press movement, when the exercise was performed with maximum velocity to failure, irrespective of the load. sEMG was lower in the ECC than the CON phase for all loads, and increased at the end of the set only during the CON phase, while it remained relatively unchanged in the ECC phase, with the exception of the pectoralis muscle when the load was heavier.		[Tsoukos, Athanasios; Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800019	40	Article; Article		
J	Theodorou, Apostolos S.; Panoutsakopoulos, Vassilios; Exell, Timothy A.; Cassirame, Johan; Sanchez, Herve; Kotzamanidou, Mariana C.								Success to Clear the Bar in Elite Pole Vaulters is Affected by Step Frequency Perturbation								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			41	49		10.5114/jhk/163060			2023	2023	The purpose of the study was to identify the interaction of step characteristics, along with the direction and magnitude of their asymmetry of elite male and female pole vaulters between successful and failed attempts. It was hypothesized that step characteristics and the magnitude of asymmetry between the two legs would interact with the outcome of the attempt. The approach runs of 12 pole vaulters (7 males, 5 females) were recorded during an indoor international competition. The leg used by the athlete for taking-off was defined as the non-pole-carrying leg, while the other was the pole-carrying leg. Using spatiotemporal information obtained from recordings with a panning camera (300 fps), the last steps of each athlete's approach run were analyzed for length, frequency, average velocity, and inter-limb asymmetry. There was no inter-limb difference (p > 0.05) in the absolute values of step length or step velocity between successful and failed attempts. However, the pole-carrying leg presented significantly (p < 0.05) higher step frequency values at the failed attempts. There was no significant difference (p > 0.05) in asymmetry values for step length, frequency, and average velocity between successful and failed attempts. Although step velocity remained unaffected, failed attempts were characterized by a perturbation in the interaction of step frequency and step length. The present findings suggest that although high velocity at the final phase of the approach is essential, it is not the sole determining factor for a successful attempt.		[Theodorou, Apostolos S.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci SEFAA, Dafni Athens, Greece; [Panoutsakopoulos, Vassilios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Thessaloniki, Biomech Lab, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Exell, Timothy A.] Univ Portsmouth, Sch Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Portsmouth, Hants, England; [Cassirame, Johan] Univ Franche Comte, Dept Sport & Performance, EA 4660, Lab C3S, Besancon, France; [Cassirame, Johan] Univ Reims, Lab Performance Sante Metrol Soc, EA 7507, Reims, France; [Cassirame, Johan; Sanchez, Herve] FFA French Athlet Federat, Rech Div, Paris, France; [Cassirame, Johan; Sanchez, Herve] Ecole Valentin, R&D Div, Mtraining, Besancon, France; [Kotzamanidou, Mariana C.] Metropolitan Coll Thessaloniki, Fac Hlth Sci, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Theodorou, Apostolos S.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci SEFAA, Dafni Athens, Greece								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800006	29	Article; Article		
J	Zabaleta-Korta, Aitor; Fernandez-Pena, Eneko; Torres-Unda, Jon; Frances, Maider; Zubillaga, Asier; Santos-Concejero, Jordan								Regional Hypertrophy: The Effect of Exercises at Long and Short Muscle Lengths in Recreationally Trained Women								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			259	270		10.5114/jhk/163561			2023	2023	The aim of the present study was to analyse the role of exercises' resistance profile in regional hypertrophy. Thirty-eight healthy women completed a 9-week resistance training program consisting of either 4 sets of 12 repetitions to volitional failure of inclined bicep curls (INC group) or preacher curls (PREA group), three times per week. Pre- and post-intervention muscle thickness was measured using B-mode ultrasound imaging with a linear-array transducer. Scan acquisition sites were determined by measuring 50%, 60% and 70% of the distance between the posterior crest of the acromion and the olecranon. Statistical significance was set at p < 0.05. No region of the INC group grew when comparing pre- to post-intervention. The 70% region of the PREA group grew significantly (muscle thickness increased from 2.7 +/- 0.43 cm to 2.94 +/- 0.44 cm). We found no growth differences between regions when analysing per group (p = 0.274), region (p = 0.571) or group*region (p = 0.367). Our results show that the distal region of the arm grows in response to the preacher curl that places the highest amount of strain in the range of motion in which the arm muscles are more elongated.		[Zabaleta-Korta, Aitor; Fernandez-Pena, Eneko; Zubillaga, Asier; Santos-Concejero, Jordan] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Sports & Educ Dept, Vitoria, Spain; [Torres-Unda, Jon; Frances, Maider] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Physiotherapy Dept, Leioa, Spain; [Zabaleta-Korta, Aitor] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Sports & Educ Dept, Vitoria, Spain								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800012	47	Article; Article		
J	Cadens, Maria; Planas-Anzano, Antoni; Peirau-Teres, Xavier; Bishop, Chris; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel; Madruga-Parera, Marc								Relationship between Asymmetry Profiles and Jump Performance in Youth Female Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			5	16		10.5114/jhk/163432			2023	2023	The relationships between asymmetries and performance or the identification of the asymmetry profile that has been routinely studied during jumping tests are largely derived from male-only and small sample size studies. Therefore, the aims of this study were: 1) to evaluate the magnitude and the direction of jump asymmetries (vertical and lateral) in three different age groups of adolescent female handball players, and 2) to identify the effect of asymmetry between limbs on jump performance in the three age groups. One hundred and eighty-five adolescent female handball players (age: 14.88 +/- 1.49 years) were distributed in three groups: U14, U16 and U18 and performed two tests to assess jumping ability which were the single leg countermovement jump (SL-CMJ) and the single leg hop lateral (SL-HL). The magnitude of asymmetry in the SL-CMJ test (10.80%) was higher compared to that of the SL-LH test (6.47%), and there were no significant differences between particular categories. The direction of asymmetry represented by the Kappa values showed "poor" and "fair" levels of agreement in U14 and U16 categories, which means that asymmetries rarely favored the same side during each jumping test, but in contrast, in the U18 category the Kappa value result was "slight". There were significant correlations between SL-CMJ jumping asymmetries and jumping performance in the U18 category (r = 0.31 to 0.49). These data indicate that in order to identify the player's asymmetry profile, we need to consider the magnitude and the direction of different tests which will help better understand the natural deficits, contextualize them and consider appropriate training interventions for the reduction of inter-limb asymmetries.		[Cadens, Maria; Planas-Anzano, Antoni; Peirau-Teres, Xavier] Univ Lleida UdL, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Res Grp Human Movement, Lleida, Spain; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Sch Sci & Technol, Greenlands Lane, London, England; [Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel; Madruga-Parera, Marc] Univ Int Catalunya, Phys Therapy Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel] INNOVITY, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] FC Barcelona Second Team, Sport Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] Return Play & Sports Training Ctr, ReQ, Barcelona, Spain; [Cadens, Maria] Univ Lleida UdL, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Res Grp Human Movement, Lleida, Spain								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800011	43	Article; Article		
J	Belka, Jan; Hulka, Karel; Safar, Michal								Small-Sided Games versus Continuous Endurance Training in Female Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			151	161		10.5114/jhk/163070			2023	2023	The main aim of the study was to compare the training methods of continuous endurance training versus handball small-sided games (SSGs) in female handball players during the preseason. Eighteen female handball players from a first league in the Czech Republic voluntarily participated in the study. They were divided into two groups (the SSG group [n = 9; age: 21.22 +/- 3.03 years] and a running group (RG) [n = 9; age: 23.78 +/- 3.77 years]). Both groups continued regular preseason training for six weeks. The SSG group played two small-sided games per week (a total of 12 games during the monitoring period) in their training sessions during the monitored six-week period. The RG ran twice per week, participating in continuous endurance training in the 12 training sessions during the monitored six-week period. Fitness tests (pretest/posttest) were performed prior to the six weeks of intervention and one week afterwards. The order of the fitness tests in sequence was as follows: 20-m and 30-m sprints, a Modified Agility T test (MAT), a Standing Long-Jump Test, ball-throwing velocity, and a Yo-Yo Intermittent Test level 1. In the SSG group, there was a significant improvement in the T test (p = 0.034), ball-throwing velocity (p = 0.019), and the Yo-Yo IR1 (p = 0.003) performance. The RG showed a significant improvement in the Standing Long-Jump Test (p = 0.049), ball-throwing velocity (p = 0.003), and the Yo-Yo IR1 (p = 0.003) performance. In conclusion, the SSGT method had a positive effect on female players' MAT, ball-throwing velocity and YoYo IR1 results, and the CERT method had a significant effect only on the YoYo IR1 results. Handball SSGs are a more suitable training method due to exercise specificity.		[Belka, Jan; Hulka, Karel] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Dept Sport, Fac Phys Culture, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Safar, Michal] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Dept Social Sci Kinanthropol, Fac Phys Culture, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Belka, Jan] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Dept Sport, Fac Phys Culture, Olomouc, Czech Republic								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800007	41	Article; Article		
J	Kaneda, Kazuki; Maeda, Noriaki; Ikuta, Yasunari; Tashiro, Tsubasa; Tsutsumi, Shogo; Arima, Satoshi; Sasadai, Junpei; Suzuki, Yuta; Morikawa, Masanori; Komiya, Makoto; Adachi, Nobuo; Urabe, Yukio								The Features of Foot Morphology and Intrinsic Foot Muscle Property in Adolescent Swimmers: An Ultrasound-Based Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			95	103		10.5114/jhk/163148			2023	2023	This cross-sectional study aimed to investigate the relationship between foot shape and intrinsic foot muscles (IFMs) in adolescent swimmers compared with other athletes. Foot morphology of swimmers was compared with other athletes of comparable age and a competition level (n = 32 [64 feet]; a total of 64 feet; 128 feet in two groups). Foot morphology and variables of IFMs were measured using a three-dimensional foot scanner and an ultrasound imaging system, respectively. Multiple linear regression analysis with forced entry was performed to clarify the association of the thickness and the cross-sectional area (CSA) of IMFs with the navicular height in both sitting and standing positions. Navicular height in a standing position, the thickness of the abductor hallucis (AbH) and the flexor digitorum brevis (FDB), as well as the CSA were significantly lower in swimmers compared with other athletes (p < 0.05). A larger CSA for the flexor hallucis brevis (FHB) was observed in swimmers than in other athletes (p < 0.01). The navicular height of swimmers in sitting and standing positions was positively correlated with the thickness and the CSA of the FHB and the FDB (p < 0.05). Multiple regression analysis showed that navicular height was associated with the CSA of the FDB in both sitting and standing positions (beta = 0.395; p < 0.002, beta = 0.201; p < 0.018). This study showed that the navicular height of elite adolescent swimmers was lower than that of other athletes. Furthermore, the swimmers' high navicular height was associated with the CSA of the FDB, suggesting that the FDB might be more involved in the formation of the medial longitudinal arch than the AbH.		[Kaneda, Kazuki; Maeda, Noriaki; Tashiro, Tsubasa; Tsutsumi, Shogo; Arima, Satoshi; Komiya, Makoto; Urabe, Yukio] Hiroshima Univ, Dept Sports Rehabil, Grad Sch Biomed & Hlth Sci, Hiroshima, Japan; [Ikuta, Yasunari; Adachi, Nobuo] Hiroshima Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Grad Sch Biomed & Hlth Sci, Hiroshima, Japan; [Ikuta, Yasunari; Adachi, Nobuo] Hiroshima Univ Hosp, Sports Med Ctr, Hiroshima, Japan; [Sasadai, Junpei] Japan Sport Council, Japan Inst Sports Sci, Sports Med Ctr, Tokyo, Japan; [Suzuki, Yuta] Kyusyu Nutr Welf Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Rehabil, Fukuoka, Japan; [Morikawa, Masanori] Natl Ctr Geriatr & Gerontol, Dept Prevent Gerontol, Ctr Gerontol & Social Sci, Obu, Aichi, Japan; [Urabe, Yukio] Hiroshima Univ, Dept Sports Rehabil, Grad Sch Biomed & Hlth Sci, Hiroshima, Japan								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800009	29	Article; Article		
J	Warathanagasame, Pinyada; Sakulsriprasert, Prasert; Sinsurin, Komsak; Richards, Jim; McPhee, Jamie S.								Comparison of Hip and Knee Biomechanics during Sidestep Cutting in Male Basketball Athletes with and without Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				88	1			17	27		10.5114/jhk/162965			2023	2023	This study aimed to compare hip and knee biomechanics during sidestep cutting on the operated and non-operated sides in individuals with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR), and in an uninjured control group. Twenty male basketball athletes, 10 individuals with ACLR and 10 controls, were recruited. Hip and knee joint angles and angular velocities were investigated with a three-dimensional motion analysis system, and ground reaction forces (GRF) along with moments were collected during the deceleration phase of the stance limb during sidestep cutting maneuvers. We found significantly higher peak hip flexion, hip internal rotation angular velocities, and peak thigh angular velocity in the sagittal plane in the ACLR group. In addition, the peak vertical GRF and peak posterior GRF of the ACLR group were significantly higher than those of the control group. Univariate analyses indicated that the posterior GRF of the non-operated side was significantly higher than in the matched operated side in the control group. The operated and non-operated sides in male basketball athletes with ACLR showed alterations in hip and knee biomechanics compared with a control group, especially in the sagittal plane. Therefore, the emphasis of neuromuscular control training for the hip and the knee in basketball players with ACLR is required.		[Warathanagasame, Pinyada; Sakulsriprasert, Prasert; Sinsurin, Komsak] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech & Sports, Salaya, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Richards, Jim] Univ Cent Lancashire, Allied Hlth Res Unit, Preston, Lancs, England; [McPhee, Jamie S.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Inst Sport, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Sakulsriprasert, Prasert] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech & Sports, Salaya, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126122800002	36	Article; Article		
J	Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Corredoira, Francisco J.; Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel; Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto; Rey, Ezequiel								Tensiomyographic Assessment of Contractile Properties in Elite Youth Soccer Players According to Maturity Status								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				71	80		10.5114/jhk/161571			2023	2023	Little is known about how muscle contractile properties are affected by biological maturation in elite youth soccer players. This study aimed to determine the effects of maturation on contractile properties of rectus femoris (RF) and biceps femoris (BF) muscles assessed by tensiomyography (TMG) and provide reference values for elite youth soccer players. One hundred twenty-one elite youth soccer players (14.98 +/- 1.83 years; 167.38 +/- 10.37 cm; 60.65 +/- 11.69 kg) took part in the study. The predicted peak height velocity (PHV) was used in order to establish players' maturity status (Pre-PHV, n = 18; Mid-PHV, n = 37; Post-PHV = 66). Maximal radial displacement of the muscle belly, contraction time, delay time, and contraction velocity for RF and BF muscles were recorded. One-way ANOVA showed no significant differences between PHV groups for any tensiomyography variables in RF and BF muscles (p > 0.05). Our results established that maturity status did not show a significant effect in mechanical and contractile properties on RF and BF muscles evaluated by TMG in elite youth soccer players. These findings and reference values can be useful for strength and conditioning coaches of elite soccer academies in order to optimize the evaluation of neuromuscular profiles.		[Padron-Cabo, Alexis] Univ A Coruna, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, La Coruna, Spain; [Corredoira, Francisco J.; Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel; Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ Arts Educ & Mus, Albacete, Spain; [Padron-Cabo, Alexis] Univ A Coruna, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, La Coruna, Spain								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600007	45	Article; Article		
J	Lu, Wei; Du, Zonghao; Zhou, Aiguo								Fast and Medium Tempo Resistance Training with a Low Number of Repetitions in Trained Men: Effects on Maximal Strength and Power Output								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				157	165		10.5114/jhk/161472			2023	2023	This study aimed to investigate the effects of high load fast and medium tempo back squats using a low number of repetitions on maximal strength and power output. Seventeen participants completed a countermovement jump test and 1-repetition maximum (1-RM) assessment before and after an eight-week intervention. All participants were randomly divided into a fast tempo (FAS: 1/0/1/0) and a medium tempo (MED: 2/0/2/0) resistance training (RT) group and performed three repetitions per set of a Smith back squat exercise with 85% 1-RM intensity. Maximal strength, jump height, peak power and force of the two groups were significantly improved (p < 0.05). In addition, peak velocity significantly increased after the intervention in the FAS group (p < 0.05), but not in the MED group (p > 0.05). A significant interaction effect between training groups was observed for jump height (F (1, 30) = 5.49, p = 0.026, eta(2) = 0.155). However, no significant group by time interaction effects were found between training groups for maximal strength (F (1, 30) = 0.11, p = 0.742, eta(2) = 0.004). Therefore, the two groups showed similar effects in maximal strength, but, compared with the MED group, FAS resistance training with low repetitions caused favorable adaptations in power output in trained men.		[Lu, Wei; Du, Zonghao; Zhou, Aiguo] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Strength & Conditioning Training, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Aiguo] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Strength & Conditioning Training, Beijing, Peoples R China								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600004	32	Article; Article		
J	Lin, Liya; Ji, Xinyi; Zhang, Li; Weng, Haiqin; Wang, Xinyi								Peak Running, Mechanical, and Physiological Demands of Professional Men's Field Hockey Matches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				133	141		10.5114/jhk/161551			2023	2023	The aim of this study was to investigate the peak running, mechanical, and physiological demands of players of different positions in professional men's field hockey matches. Eighteen professional male field hockey players participated in the study, and data were collected in eleven official matches. Players wore GPS units (Vector S7, Catapult Sports) and heart rate (HR) monitors (Polar H1, Polar Electros) to collect physical and physiological data. Physical and physiological output of forwards, midfielders, and defenders in full matches and during 1-min peak periods was analysed. For all metrics and positions, the values identified for the 1-min peak periods were greater than the average values of match play (p < 0.05). In terms of 1-min peak period Player Load, all three positions were significantly different from each other. Forwards achieved the highest Player Load per minute, while defenders the lowest. The distance per minute, high-speed distance per minute, and the relative average heart rate of defenders were significantly lower than of midfielders and forwards (p < 0.05). The current study revealed the peak running, mechanical, and physiological demands of professional men's field hockey matches. It is recommended when prescribing training programmes, to consider not only match average demands, but also peak demands. Forwards and midfielders displayed similar peak demands, while defenders had the lowest demands in all metrics except the number of accelerations and decelerations per minute. Player Load per minute can be used to identify the differences in peak mechanical demands between forwards and midfielders.		[Lin, Liya; Zhang, Li] Guangdong Inst Sport Sci, Sports Training Res Ctr, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Ji, Xinyi; Wang, Xinyi] Catapult Sports, APAC Team, Melbourne, Australia; [Weng, Haiqin] Guangdong Mens Field Hockey Team, Coaching Team, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Lin, Liya] Guangdong Inst Sport Sci, Sports Training Res Ctr, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600006	28	Article; Article		
J	Haischer, Michael H.; Carzoli, Joseph P.; Cooke, Daniel M.; Pelland, Joshua C.; Remmert, Jacob F.; Zourdos, Michael. C.								Predicting Total Back Squat Repetitions from Repetition Velocity and Velocity Loss								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				167	178		10.5114/jhk/162021			2023	2023	The purpose of this investigation was to determine if average concentric velocity (ACV) of a single repetition at 70% of one-repetition maximum (1RM), ACV of the first repetition of a set to failure at 70% of 1RM, or the velocity loss during the set could predict the number of repetitions performed in the back squat. Fifty-six resistance-trained individuals participated in the study (male = 41, age = 23 +/- 3 yrs, 1RM = 162.0 +/- 40.0 kg; female = 15, age = 21 +/- 2 yrs, 1RM = 81.5 +/- 12.5 kg). After 1RM testing, participants performed single repetition sets with 70% of 1RM and a set to failure with 70% of 1RM. ACV was recorded on all repetitions. Regression model comparisons were performed, and Akaike Information Criteria (AIC) and Standard Error of the Estimate (SEE) were calculated to determine the best model. Neither single repetition ACV at 70% of 1RM (R-2 = 0.004, p = 0.637) nor velocity loss (R-2 = 0.011, p = 0.445) were predictive of total repetitions performed in the set to failure. The simple quadratic model using the first repetition of the set to failure Y = beta (0) + beta X-1(ACVFirst) + beta X-2(ACVFirst)2 + epsilon) ) was identified as the best and most parsimonious model (R-2 = 0.259, F = 9.247, p < 0.001) due to the lowest AIC value (311.086). A SEE of 2.21 repetitions was identified with this model. This average error of similar to 2 repetitions warrants only cautious utilization of this method to predict total repetitions an individual can perform in a set, with additional autoregulatory or individualization strategies being necessary to finalize the training prescription.		[Haischer, Michael H.; Carzoli, Joseph P.; Cooke, Daniel M.; Pelland, Joshua C.; Remmert, Jacob F.; Zourdos, Michael. C.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Lab, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA; [Zourdos, Michael. C.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Lab, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600001	28	Article; Article		
J	Grabara, Malgorzata; Bieniec, Anna								Functional Movement Patterns, Spinal Posture and Prevalence of Musculoskeletal Symptoms among Elite Ice Hockey Players: A Cross Sectional Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				59	70		10.5114/jhk/161548			2023	2023	The aim of this study was to evaluate functional movement patterns and spinal posture of elite ice hockey players and to examine the association between spinal posture, prevalence of musculoskeletal symptoms and Functional Movement Screen (FMS (TM)) scores. The study included 86 elite male ice hockey players aged 18 to 38 years. Sagittal spinal curvatures were measured with a Saunders digital inclinometer, and functional movement patterns were assessed by the FMS (TM). Spinal posture of the studied ice hockey players was characterized by normal kyphosis (46%) or hyperkyphosis (41%) and decreased lumbar lordosis (54%). The mean total FMS (TM) score was 14.8. Most of the hockey players (57%) achieved a total FMS (TM) score in the range of 14-17 points, whereas 28% had a total FMS (TM) score of <14. Seventy-two percent of the studied athletes had at least one asymmetry. Significant differences between performing the movements on the right and the left sides of the body were observed in in-line lunges (p = 0.019) and shoulder mobility sub-tests (p < 0.001). The FMS (TM) sub-tests performed with the lowest success rates were rotatory stability and the hurdle step. A lower score in the rotatory stability test is related to shoulder pain. It is highly important to develop appropriate exercise programs to reduce or prevent muscle imbalances in ice hockey players.		[Grabara, Malgorzata] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Bieniec, Anna] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Hlth Related Phys Act & Tourism, Katowice, Poland; [Grabara, Malgorzata] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600014	52	Article; Article		
J	Almutairi, Marzouq K.; Hunter, Gary R.; Lein, Donald H.; Kim, Sojung; Bryan, David R.; Inacio, Mario; Hurt, Christopher P.; Reed, William; Singh, Harshvardhan								Enhancement of Muscle Shortening Torque Preloaded with Muscle Lengthening is Joint-Specific								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				11	21		10.5114/jhk/161729			2023	2023	Our cross-sectional study aimed to investigate joint specificity of concentric muscle torque enhancement after a maximum eccentric contraction for the knee versus ankle joints across two different movement velocities (120(degrees)/s and 180(degrees)/s). After a familiarization session, 22 healthy young adults randomly performed concentric (CONC) and maximum eccentric preloaded concentric (EccCONC) muscle strength tests of the knee extensors and ankle plantar flexors of the non-dominant leg on an isokinetic strength testing device. We calculated the ratio between EccCONC and CONC (EccCONC/CONC) for all the conditions as the marker of concentric muscle torque enhancement. Separate two-way (joints x velocity) within repeated measures ANOVAs were used to determine joint-specific torque differences at 120(degrees)/s and 180(degrees)/s. CONC and EccCONC were greater for the knee extensors versus ankle plantar flexors at 120(degrees)/s and 180(degrees)/s (32.86%-102%; p < 0.001 for both); however, EccCONC/CONC was greater for the ankle plantar flexors than knee extensors at 120(degrees)/s (52.4%; p < 0.001) and 180(degrees)/s (41.9%; p < 0.001). There was a trend of greater EccCONC/CONC for the knee extensors at 180(degrees)/s than 120(degrees)/s (6.6%; p = 0.07). Our results show that greater concentric muscle torque enhancement after a maximal eccentric contraction occurs for the ankle plantar flexors versus knee extensors. Whether the joint- specificity of concentric muscle torque enhancement after a maximal eccentric contraction differentially affects sports performance is unknown. Our data provide a reference framework to investigate joint-specific concentric muscle torque enhancement for general and clinical athletic populations.		[Almutairi, Marzouq K.; Lein, Donald H.; Hurt, Christopher P.; Reed, William; Singh, Harshvardhan] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Dept Phys Therapy, Birmingham, AL 35294 USA; [Almutairi, Marzouq K.] Qassim Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Qasim, Saudi Arabia; [Hunter, Gary R.; Bryan, David R.] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Dept Nutr Sci, Birmingham, AL USA; [Kim, Sojung] Rowan Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Glassboro, NJ USA; [Inacio, Mario] Univ Maia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, ISMAI, Maia, Portugal; [Inacio, Mario] Oxford Brookes Univ, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Oxford, England; [Singh, Harshvardhan] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Dept Phys Therapy, Birmingham, AL 35294 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600020	30	Article; Article		
J	Jooste, Julius; Kruger, Ankebe; Tinkler, Nicola								The Influence of Emotional Intelligence on Coping Ability in Senior Female Field-Hockey Players in South Africa								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				211	223		10.5114/jhk/161550			2023	2023	Research has suggested that coping under pressure could be rooted in the ability to identify and manage one's emotions. In this study, we investigated this hypothesis using cross-sectional data obtained from a sample of South African national and university level female field-hockey players (N = 60, Mage = 21.57, SD = 3.65). A correlational research design was adopted of which a pen-and-paper survey containing the Emotional Intelligence Scale and Athletic Coping Skills Inventory-28 was used to collect the data. Descriptive results exposed players to yield higher than average levels of total emotional intelligence and coping ability in sport with significant differences noted between the national and university level players in terms of their ability to manage their own emotions (p = 0.018), utilise emotions (p = 0.007, d = 0.74), coping with adversity (p = 0.002, d = 0.84), coachability (p < 0.01, d = 3.17), and overall coping ability (p < 0.01, d = 1.00). After controlling for the level of participation, hierarchical linear regression analyses confirmed the relationship between the study variables exposing total emotional intelligence to be a significant predictor of players' ability to cope with adversity (beta = 0.55, p = 0.006), concentrate (beta = 0.43, p = 0.044), maintain confidence and achievement motivation (beta = 0.42, p = 0.027), as well as overall coping ability (beta = 0.28, p = 0.023). It was concluded that emotional intelligence may be a worthy contributor in the psychological profiling of players and a plausible intervention mapping tool in sport psychology practice to potentially enhance the coping ability of female field-hockey players.		[Jooste, Julius] Northumbria Univ, Dept Psychol, Newcastle Upon Tyne, England; [Kruger, Ankebe] North West Univ, Ctr Hlth & Human Performance, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Kruger, Ankebe; Tinkler, Nicola] North West Univ, Phys Act Sport & Recreat Res Focus Area PhASRec, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Jooste, Julius] Northumbria Univ, Dept Psychol, Newcastle Upon Tyne, England								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600021	73	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Hernandez, Juan; Gomez-Lopez, Manuel; Manzano-Sanchez, David; Valero-Valenzuela, Alfonso								Motivated and without Fear of Failure: The Strength of Basic Psychological Needs in Youth Spanish Athletes in Team Sports								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				235	245		10.5114/jhk/162449			2023	2023	Connecting desires for achievement, the satisfaction of basic psychological needs and the perception of fear of failure is one of the most relevant questions in the understanding of negative mental responses in youth athletes. How to act with less fear is what every athlete seeks to feel to enhance their performance actions. This paper aims to shed light on a sample of 681 members of sports teams belonging to different Spanish clubs (391 boys and 290 girls), with a mean age of 16.2 years, and a high sports dedication (75.5% > 5 years of experience; 96.3% > two training sessions/week; 90.3% > 3 hours of training/week). The collected data used self-reports based on the tenets of achievement motivation, SelfDetermination Theory, and fear of failure. Those aspects linked to task involvement were positively close to Basic Psychological Needs (BPNs), while those related to ego involvement moved away from task involvement and BPNs. Fear was associated positively and significantly only with ego, and negatively with the rest of the constructs. In the standardized direct effect, positive and significant associations were observed among all constructs except between an ego-involving climate and basic psychological needs satisfaction. The association between a task-involving climate and BPNs was significant in fostering relationships among group members, as well as in improving interpersonal cohesion, empathic understanding processes, and reducing fear of failure in youth athletes.		[Gonzalez-Hernandez, Juan] Univ Granada, Dept Personal Evaluat & Psychol Treatment, Granada, Spain; [Gomez-Lopez, Manuel; Valero-Valenzuela, Alfonso] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Gomez-Lopez, Manuel; Valero-Valenzuela, Alfonso] Univ Murcia, Campus Int Excellence Mare Nostrum, Murcia, Spain; [Manzano-Sanchez, David] Univ Extremadura, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Badajoz, Spain; [Gomez-Lopez, Manuel] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Gomez-Lopez, Manuel] Univ Murcia, Campus Int Excellence Mare Nostrum, Murcia, Spain								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600017	48	Article; Article		
J	Beigi, Sharif; Shabkhiz, Fatemeh; Kordi, Mohammadreza; Haghi-Ashtiani, Bahram; Hashemi-Madani, Nahid; Zmijewski, Piotr								The Effects of a 10-Week Aerobic and Unilateral Lower Extremity Resistance Training Program on Amplitude and Nerve Conduction Velocity of Sensory and Motor Nerves in Diabetic Patients with Neuropathy								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				93	103		10.5114/jhk/161610			2023	2023	This study aimed to investigate the effects of 10-week aerobic and unilateral lower extremity resistance training on nerve conduction velocity and amplitude of sensory and motor nerves in diabetic patients with neuropathy. This clinical trial was conducted on twenty women and men (aged 30-60 years old) with diabetic neuropathy. Participants were randomly assigned to one of the two groups: an exercise group (EG; n = 10) and a control group (CG; n = 10). The EG performed a 10-week programme with one session of aerobic exercises (40% to 70% of HR reserve), supplemented with one session of specific lower extremity resistance exercises (60-90 min/day) on the same day for four days per week. The CG subjects performed their regular daily activities. The nerve conduction velocity, amplitude of sensory and motor nerves and glycosylated haemoglobin A1c were measured before and after the intervention. The repeated-measures ANOVA showed a significant increase in the conduction velocity of the sural sensory nerve as well as the peroneal motor nerve (p < 0.01, p < 0.01). The changes in the conduction velocity of the tibial nerve were similar when compared to the control group (p > 0.05). A significantly greater decrease in glycosylated haemoglobin was also observed in the EG group (p < 0.01). Performing 10 weeks of aerobic and specific unilateral lower extremity exercises can improve the function of sensory and motor nerves and improve symptoms in diabetic patients with neuropathy. Given the limited studies in this area, the exact mechanisms of this performance improvement need further examination.		[Beigi, Sharif; Shabkhiz, Fatemeh; Kordi, Mohammadreza] Univ Tehran, Sport Sci & Hlth Fac, Dept Exercise Physiol, Tehran, Iran; [Haghi-Ashtiani, Bahram] Iran Univ Med Sci, Firoozgar Hosp, Dept Neurol, Tehran, Iran; [Hashemi-Madani, Nahid] Iran Univ Med Sci, Inst Endocrinol & Metab, Endocrinol & Metab Res Ctr, Tehran, Iran; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600009	46	Article; Article		
J	Williamson-Reisdorph, Cassie M.; Quindry, Tiffany S.; Christison, Katherine S.; Gurney, Shae C.; Tiemessen, Kathryn G.; Cuddy, John; Hailes, Walter; Slivka, Dustin; Ruby, Brent C.; Quindry, John C.								Training in a Hot Environment Fails to Elicit Changes in the Blood Oxidative Stress Response								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				87				81	92		10.5114/jhk/161586			2023	2023	Environmental temperature can impact exercise-induced blood oxidative stress; however, the effects of heat acclimation on this response have not been fully elucidated. The purpose of the study was to investigate the effects of hot (33 degrees C) and room temperature (20 degrees C) environments on post-exercise blood oxidative stress responses following 15 temperature acclimation sessions. Untrained participants (n = 38, 26 +/- 7 years, VO2peak = 38.0 +/- 7.2 years) completed 15 temperature acclimation sessions of a cycling bout at an intensity perceived as "hard" in either a hot (33 degrees C) or room temperature (20 degrees C) environment. Pre and post acclimation exercise tolerance trials were conducted, which involved cycling at 50% W-peak for one hour. Blood sampling occurred before exercise, immediately after, two hours, and four hours after the exercise tolerance trials. Blood samples were analyzed for oxidative stress markers including lipid hydroperoxides, 8-isoprostanes, protein carbonyls, 3-nitrotyrosine, ferric-reducing ability of plasma, and Trolox-equivalent antioxidant capacity. Exercise-dependent increases were observed in lipid hydroperoxides, Trolox-equivalent antioxidant capacity, and ferric-reducing ability of plasma (p < 0.001). Considering exercise-induced elevations in markers of blood oxidative stress, there were no differences observed between environmental temperatures before or after the acclimation training period.		[Williamson-Reisdorph, Cassie M.; Quindry, Tiffany S.; Christison, Katherine S.; Gurney, Shae C.; Tiemessen, Kathryn G.; Cuddy, John; Hailes, Walter; Slivka, Dustin; Ruby, Brent C.; Quindry, John C.] Univ Montana, Sch Integrat Physiol & Athlet Training, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Quindry, John C.] Univ Montana, Sch Integrat Physiol & Athlet Training, Missoula, MT 59812 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001115586600012	34	Article; Article		
J	Oliva-Lozano, Jose M.; Cuenca-Lopez, Juan; Suarez, Javier; Granero-Gil, Paulino; Muyor, Jose M.								When and How Do Soccer Players From a Semi-Professional Club Sprint in Match Play?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			195	204		10.5114/jhk/159964			2023	2023	The aims of this study were to investigate the periods in which sprints occurred during official matches and analyze these sprints considering the effect of the playing position and different contextual variables. Electronic performance and tracking systems were used for the analysis of all sprints performed by players. Matches were recorded by video and synchronized with performance tracking data. A total of 252 sprints were analyzed. The greatest frequency of sprints was observed in the period 1 (0'-15'), followed by period 2 (15'-30') and period 6 (75'-90'), regardless of the playing position (chi(2) = 31.35; p = 0.051). Most sprints were non-linear (non-linear sprints: 97.6%; linear sprints: 2.4%) and without ball possession (without ball possession: 95.2%; with ball possession: 4.8%) for all playing positions, but the role of the sprint and the field area in which the sprint occurred were dependent on the position (p < 0.001). Specifically, players covered similar to 17.55 m per sprint, starting at similar to 10.34 km/h, reaching similar to 26.74 km/h, maximally accelerating at similar to 2.73 m/s(2), and decelerating at similar to 3.61 m/s(2). Overall, the playing position and contextual variables had no significant effect on physical performance variables analyzed during these sprints. Therefore, this study allows performance practitioners to have a better understanding of when and how soccer players sprint in match-play. In this regard, this study presents some training and testing strategies that may be considered to improve performance and decrease injury risk.		[Oliva-Lozano, Jose M.; Muyor, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Hlth Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain; [Cuenca-Lopez, Juan; Suarez, Javier] Club Polideport Ejido, Almeria, Spain; [Granero-Gil, Paulino] Ferencvarosi Torna Club, Budapest, Hungary; [Muyor, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Res Cent Serv, KIBIOMER Lab, Lab Kinesiol Biomech & Ergon, Almeria, Spain; [Muyor, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Hlth Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain; [Muyor, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Res Cent Serv, KIBIOMER Lab, Lab Kinesiol Biomech & Ergon, Almeria, Spain								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300018	30	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Namgi; Ahn, Junghoon; Lim, Wootaek								Concurrent and Angle-Trajectory Validity and Intra-Trial Reliability of a Novel Multi-View Image-Based Motion Analysis System								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			31	40		10.5114/jhk/159587			2023	2023	Sports-related injuries are the most common in the lower extremities among physical regions. To evaluate impaired functional performance in sports training facilities and sports, a marker-less motion analysis system that can measure joint kinematics in bright indoor and outdoor environments is required. The aim of this study was to establish the concurrent and angle-trajectory validity and intra-trial reliability of a novel multi-view image-based motion analysis system with marker-less pose estimation during lower extremity tasks in healthy young men. Ten healthy young men participated voluntarily in this study. The hip and knee joint angles were collected using a multi-view image-based motion analysis system (marker-less) and a Vicon motion capture system (with markers) during the lower extremity tasks. Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) analyses were used to identify the concurrent and angle-trajectory validity and intra-trial reliability of the multi-view image-based motion analysis system. In the concurrent validity, the correlation analysis revealed that the ICC3, k values on the hip and knee flexions during knee bending in sitting, standing, and squat movements were from 0.747 to 0.936 between the two systems. In particular, the angle-trajectory validity was very high (ICC3, 1 = 0.859-0.998), indicating a high agreement between the two systems. The intra-trial reliability of each system was excellent (ICC3, 1 = 0.773-0.974), reflecting high reproducibility. We suggest that this novel marker-less motion analysis system is highly accurate and reliable for measuring joint kinematics of the lower extremities during the rehabilitation process and monitoring sports performance of athletes in training facilities.		[Lee, Namgi] Kwangju Womens Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Gwangju, South Korea; [Ahn, Junghoon] Korea Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Grad Sch, Seoul, South Korea; [Lim, Wootaek] Woosong Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Daejeon, South Korea; [Lim, Wootaek] Woosong Inst Rehabil Sci, Daejeon, South Korea; [Lim, Wootaek] Woosong Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Daejeon, South Korea; [Lim, Wootaek] Woosong Inst Rehabil Sci, Daejeon, South Korea								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300009	32	Article; Article		
J	Gajewski, Jan; Mazur-Rozycka, Joanna; Gorski, Michal; Busko, Krzysztof								Reference Values of the Forearm Tremor Power Spectra for Youth Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			133	143		10.5114/jhk/159644			2023	2023	The aim of the study was to determine reference graphs of power spectral density functions of forearm physiological tremor and to compare their parameters in the male and female population of young athletes from various sports. One hundred fifty-nine (159) female (15.7 +/- 2.1 years, 59.8 +/- 8.1 kg, 169.1 +/- 7.5 cm) and 276 male (16.4 +/- 1.9 years 72.7 +/- 10.3 kg and 180.9 +/- 8.7 cm) youth athletes participated in the study. Forearm tremor was measured accelerometrically in a sitting position. Power spectrum density (PSD) function was calculated for each individual tremor waveform. Because of right skewness of power distribution, the PSD functions were subjected to logarithmic transformation. Average log-powers in low (2-4 Hz) and high (8-14 Hz) frequency ranges and mean frequencies in those ranges were analyzed. Tremor log-powers for male were greater than for female athletes (p < 0.001), while frequencies of spectrum maxima did not differ from each other. Frequencies of spectrum maxima correlated (p < 0.001) with age (r = 0.277 and 0.326 for males and females, respectively). The obtained reference functions may be utilized in order to quantify and assess tremor size and its changes evoked by stress and fatigue, which can be applied for selection and training monitoring in sports, but also in medicine for detection and diagnosis of pathologic tremor in young individuals.		[Gajewski, Jan] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Chair Human Biol, Warsaw, Poland; [Mazur-Rozycka, Joanna] Natl Res Inst, Dept Ergon, Cent Inst Labour Protect, Warsaw, Poland; [Gorski, Michal] Natl Res Inst, Dept Kinesiol, Inst Sport, Warsaw, Poland; [Busko, Krzysztof] Kazimierz Wielki Univ, Inst Phys Culture, Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Gajewski, Jan] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Chair Human Biol, Warsaw, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300014	30	Article; Article		
J	Zhao, Xiang; Turner, Anthony P.; Sproule, John; Phillips, Shaun M.								The Effect of Unilateral and Bilateral Leg Press Training on Lower Body Strength and Power and Athletic Performance in Adolescent Rugby Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			235	246		10.5114/jhk/159626			2023	2023	This study aimed to compare the effects of 5 weeks of unilateral and bilateral leg press training on lower body strength, linear sprinting and vertical jumping performance in adolescent rugby players. Twenty-six male adolescent rugby players (age = 15.3 +/- 0.4 years) were assigned via stratified block randomization to unilateral (n = 9), bilateral (n = 9) and control (n = 8) groups. Training consisted of either the unilateral or the bilateral leg press twice weekly over five weeks, with the control group maintaining habitual training. Lower body unilateral and bilateral strength, vertical jump and linear sprint performance were assessed before and after training. After 5 weeks of training, both training groups significantly increased the 5-repetition maximum bilateral leg press (unilateral group = 8.9%, d = 0.53; bilateral group = 10.9%, d = 0.55, p < 0.01) and the 5-repetition maximum unilateral leg press (unilateral group = 20.2%, d = 0.81; bilateral group = 12.4%, d = 0.45, p < 0.01). There was no significant difference between the size of improvement in unilateral and bilateral groups in the 5-repetition maximum bilateral leg press, but the 5-repetition maximum unilateral leg press increased significantly more in the unilateral group (p < 0.05). No significant training effects were found for vertical jump or linear sprint performance. The results indicated that unilateral leg press training was as effective as bilateral leg press training in improving bilateral strength and more effective in improving unilateral strength in adolescent rugby players. However, strength improvement did not transfer to athletic performance improvements in either group		[Zhao, Xiang; Turner, Anthony P.; Sproule, John; Phillips, Shaun M.] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Zhao, Xiang] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300012	37	Article; Article		
J	Wasik, Jacek; Mosier, Dariusz; Ortenburger, Dorota; Gora, Tomasz; Podstawski, Robert								Differences in Velocities of Crucial Body Segments while Executing Roundhouse Kicks for Both Sides								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			97	105		10.5114/jhk/159451			2023	2023	Lower limb kinematics of the roundhouse kick is a well-known topic studied by many researchers. However, there is a lack of data about the velocity of the core and upper limbs during the execution of this technique. The aim of this study was to evaluate the differences in velocities of all crucial body segments while executing roundhouse kicks for both sides of the body. Thirteen elite taekwon-do athletes participated in this study. They performed kicks to a table tennis ball three times using each leg. The spatial-temporal data of markers placed on toes, knees, hips, shoulders, elbows, hands, and sternum were captured with the use of the Human Motion Lab equipment composed of 10 infrared cameras NIR Vicon MX-T40. There were statistical differences in the maximal velocity of the sternum and opposite shoulder. There were different correlations between the time of acquiring maximal velocities of specific body segments and the maximal velocity of the toe marker for each kicking side. Higher correlations were observed for the left kick despite the participant's declaration of their preference for the right leg. The obtained results facilitate the conclusion that small non-resistant targets require different motor control depending on the kicking side, despite not revealing significant differences between maximal velocity. While such an indicator could be perceived as a suitable benchmark of an athlete's performance, more detailed analysis seems to be required for a better understanding of martial arts techniques.		[Wasik, Jacek; Mosier, Dariusz; Ortenburger, Dorota; Gora, Tomasz] Jan Dlugosz Univ Czestochowa, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Prevent, Czestochowa, Poland; [Podstawski, Robert] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Dept Physiotherapy, Sch Publ Hlth, Olsztyn, Poland; [Wasik, Jacek] Jan Dlugosz Univ Czestochowa, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Prevent, Czestochowa, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300002	35	Article; Article		
J	Wu, Chih-Min; Ho, Jen-Yu; Wang, Wen-Yi; Cai, Zong-Yan								Foot Cooling between Interval Bouts Enhances Repeated Lower Limb Power Performance: The Role of Delaying Fatigue								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			107	116		10.5114/jhk/159623			2023	2023	This study aimed to investigate whether interbout foot cooling (FC) may enhance repeated lower limb power performance and the corresponding physiological responses based on interset FC, which has been demonstrated to enhance leg-press performance. In a repeated-measures crossover design, ten active men (aged 21.5 +/- 1.5 years, exercising >3 times per week) performed four bouts of 10-s cycle ergometer sprints with interbout FC at 10 degrees C water for 2.5 min or non-cooling (NC) with a 5-day interval. The results indicated that FC elicited higher total work (27.57 +/- 5.66 kJ vs. 26.55 +/- 5.76 kJ) and arousal scores than NC (p < 0.05). Furthermore, under the NC condition, participants decreased mean power (p < 0.05) with no alteration of vastus lateralis (VL) electromyography (EMG) activities after the second bout; whereas under the FC condition, participants maintained steady mean power accompanied by increased VL EMG activities in the last two bouts (p < 0.05). Jointly, participants had higher mean power ([3rd = 10.14 +/- 1.15 vs. 9.37 +/- 1.30; 4th = 9.79 +/- 1.22 vs. 9.23 +/- 1.27] W/kg) and VL EMG activities in the last two bouts under the FC than NC condition (p < 0.05). However, perceived exertion and the heart rate were comparable between the two conditions (p > 0.05). In conclusion, interbout FC elicited a higher arousal level and repeated lower limb power performance, which could be explained by delaying peripheral fatigue via increasing excitatory drive and recruiting additional motor units to compensate for fatigue-related responses and power decrements.		[Wu, Chih-Min] Cheng Shiu Univ, Dept Leisure & Sport Management, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Ho, Jen-Yu] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wang, Wen-Yi] Univ Taipei, Grad Inst Sports Pedag, Taipei, Taiwan; [Cai, Zong-Yan] Natl Sun Yat Sen Univ, Si Wan Coll, Ctr Phys & Hlth Educ, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Cai, Zong-Yan] Natl Sun Yat Sen Univ, Si Wan Coll, Ctr Phys & Hlth Educ, Kaohsiung, Taiwan								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300011	29	Article; Article		
J	Loturco, Irineu; Haugen, Thomas; Freitas, Tomas T.; Bishop, Chris; Moura, Tulio B. M. A.; Mercer, Valter P.; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Pereira, Lucas A.; Weldon, Anthony								Strength and Conditioning Practices of Brazilian Olympic Sprint and Jump Coaches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			175	194		10.5114/jhk/159646			2023	2023	Olympic coaches are likely to have adequate knowledge and implement effective training programs. This study aimed to describe and critically examine the strength and conditioning practices adopted by Brazilian Olympic sprint and jump coaches. Nineteen Olympic coaches (age: 50.2 +/- 10.8 years; professional experience: 25.9 +/- 13.1 years) completed a survey consisting of eight sections: 1) background information; 2) strength-power development; 3) speed training; 4) plyometrics; 5) flexibility training; 6) physical testing; 7) technology use; and 8) programming. It was noticed that coaches prioritized the development of explosiveness, power, and sprinting speed in their training programs, given the specific requirements of sprint and jump events. Nevertheless, unexpectedly, we observed: (1) large variations in the number of repetitions performed per set during resistance training in the off-season period, (2) a higher volume of resistance training prescribed during the competitive period (compared to other sports), and (3) infrequent use of traditional periodization models. These findings are probably related to the complex characteristics of modern competitive sports (e.g., congested competitive schedule) and the individual needs of sprinters and jumpers. Identification of training practices commonly used by leading track and field coaches may help practitioners and sport scientists create more effective research projects and training programs.		[Loturco, Irineu; Freitas, Tomas T.; Moura, Tulio B. M. A.; Mercer, Valter P.; Pereira, Lucas A.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu; Freitas, Tomas T.; Pereira, Lucas A.] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Haugen, Thomas] Kristiania Univ Coll, Sch Hlth Sci, Oslo, Norway; [Freitas, Tomas T.; Alcaraz, Pedro E.] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomas T.] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Birmingham City Univ, Ctr Life & Sport Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300015	90	Article; Article		
J	Siedler, Madelin R.; Lewis, Megan H.; Trexler, Eric T.; Lamadrid, Priscila; Waddell, Brian J.; Bishop, Sarah F.; SanFilippo, Gillian; Callahan, Kaitlin; Mathas, David; Mastrofini, Gianna F.; Henselmans, Menno; Varvik, Fredrik T.; Campbell, Bill, I								The Effects of Intermittent Diet Breaks during 25% Energy Restriction on Body Composition and Resting Metabolic Rate in Resistance-Trained Females: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			117	132		10.5114/jhk/159960			2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of intermittent versus continuous energy restriction on body composition, resting metabolic rate, and eating behaviors in resistance-trained females. Thirty-eight resistance-trained females (mean +/- standard deviation age: 22.3 +/- 4.2 years) were randomized to receive either six weeks of a continuous 25% reduction in energy intake (n = 18), or one week of energy balance after every two weeks of 25% energy restriction (eight weeks total; n = 20). Participants were instructed to ingest 1.8 g protein/kilogram bodyweight per day and completed three weekly supervised resistance training sessions throughout the intervention. There were no differences between groups for changes over time in body composition, resting metabolic rate, or seven of the eight measured eating behavior variables (p > 0.05). However, a significant group-by-time interaction for disinhibition (p < 0.01) from the ThreeFactor Eating Questionnaire was observed, with values (+/- standard error) in the continuous group increasing from 4.91 +/- 0.73 to 6.17 +/- 0.71, while values in the intermittent group decreased from 6.80 +/- 0.68 to 6.05 +/- 0.68. Thus, diet breaks do not appear to induce improvements in body composition or metabolic rate in comparison with continuous energy restriction over six weeks of dieting, but may be employed for those who desire a short-term break from an energyrestricted diet without fear of fat regain. While diet breaks may reduce the impact of prolonged energy restriction on measures of disinhibition, they also require a longer time period that may be less appealing for some individuals.		[Siedler, Madelin R.; Lewis, Megan H.; Trexler, Eric T.; Lamadrid, Priscila; Waddell, Brian J.; Bishop, Sarah F.; SanFilippo, Gillian; Callahan, Kaitlin; Mathas, David; Mastrofini, Gianna F.; Campbell, Bill, I] Univ S Florida, Exercise Sci Program, Tampa, FL 33620 USA; [Siedler, Madelin R.] Texas Tech Univ, Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Lewis, Megan H.] Texas A&M Univ, Hlth & Kinesiol, College Stn, TX USA; [Mastrofini, Gianna F.] Univ South Carolina, Exercise Sci, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Henselmans, Menno; Varvik, Fredrik T.] Int Sci Res Fdn Fitness & Nutr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Varvik, Fredrik T.] Univ Agder, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway; [Campbell, Bill, I] Univ S Florida, Exercise Sci Program, Tampa, FL 33620 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300017	47	Article; Article		
J	Seki, Keitaro; Nagano, Tomoki; Aoyama, Kiyohide; Morioka, Yasunori								Squat and Countermovement Vertical Jump Dynamics Using Knee Dominant or Hip Dominant Strategies								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			63	71		10.5114/jhk/159285			2023	2023	This study aimed to investigate squat jump and countermovement jump kinetics in the knee dominant and hip dominant postures. Participants included 12 male sports science students. They were instructed to perform a squat jump and a countermovement jump with two squat postures: knee- and hip-dominant postures. The jumping motion and ground reaction force were recorded using a motion capture system and a force plate, respectively. A p-value of 0.05 was considered statistically significant. There was a significant interaction for the maximal knee joint extension torque, with the knee-countermovement jump being more than twice higher than that of other conditions, but not for mechanical work of the knee joint, which was significantly greater in the knee posture than in the hip posture. No significant interactions were found in mechanical work and maximal extension torque of the hip joint, both of which were significantly greater in the hip posture than in the knee posture, and in the countermovement jump than in the squat jump. This study showed that the effects of countermovement and posture were different for joints and that these effects were independent in the hip joint, but interacted in the knee joint. In the knee joint, the posture increased the effect of countermovement on extension torque, but the effect on mechanical work was small. This suggests that countermovement in the knee posture has little effect on the lifting work, but results in a great load on the knee extensors.		[Seki, Keitaro; Aoyama, Kiyohide] Nihon Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Coll Humanities & Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Nagano, Tomoki] Nihon Univ, Grad Sch Literature & Social Sci, Masters Program Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Morioka, Yasunori] Nihon Univ, Dept Competit Sports, Coll Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Seki, Keitaro] Nihon Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Coll Humanities & Sci, Tokyo, Japan								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300001	23	Article; Article		
J	Folhes, Orlando; Reis, Victor Machado; Marques, Diogo Luis; Neiva, Henrique Pereira; Marques, Mario Cardoso								Influence of the Competitive Level and Weight Class on Technical Performance and Physiological and Psychophysiological Responses during Simulated Mixed Martial Arts Fights: A Preliminary Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			205	215		10.5114/jhk/159453			2023	2023	This study aimed to analyze the influence of the competitive level and weight class on technical performance and physiological and psychophysiological responses during simulated MMA fights. Twenty MMA male athletes were divided into four groups: heavyweight elite (HWE; n = 6), lightweight elite (LWE; n = 3), heavyweight professional (HWP; n = 4), and lightweight professional (LWP; n = 7). All athletes performed four simulated fights of three 5-min rounds with a 1-min rest interval. Each fight was recorded using a video camera to analyze offensive and defensive actions. Moreover, the following measures were made: heart rate (before and after each round), blood lactate concentration (before and after the fight), readiness state (before each round), and the rate of perceived exertion (RPE) (after each round). The main findings were: i) LWE athletes applied more offensive touches than LWP athletes; ii) HWP athletes presented higher heart rate values than LWP athletes after the first round; however, LWP athletes presented greater heart rate changes than HWP athletes from the first to the second round; iii) no differences existed between groups in blood lactate concentration and readiness state; and iv) HWP and LWP athletes presented higher RPE values than LWE athletes in the first and third rounds; however, LWE athletes presented greater RPE changes than HWE, HWP, and LWP athletes from the first to the second and third rounds. This study shows that LWE athletes apply more offensive touches than LWP athletes during simulated MMA fights. Moreover, lightweight athletes tend to increase their physiological demand as the combat evolves, which is also reflected in their RPE.		[Folhes, Orlando; Marques, Diogo Luis; Neiva, Henrique Pereira; Marques, Mario Cardoso] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal; [Reis, Victor Machado] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth, P-5001801 Vila Real, Portugal; [Reis, Victor Machado; Neiva, Henrique Pereira; Marques, Mario Cardoso] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal; [Marques, Mario Cardoso] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300004	22	Article; Article		
J	Sitkowski, Dariusz; Klusiewicz, Andrzej; Pokrywka, Andrzej; Jankowski, Wojciech; Malczewska-Lenczowska, Jadwiga								Relationships between Changes in Hematological Adaptations and Exercise Capacity in Olympic Rowers after a Period of Reduced Training Loads								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			155	164		10.5114/jhk/159463			2023	2023	Endurance performance is positively associated with hematological adaptations; therefore, high total hemoglobin mass and intravascular volumes are commonly observed in high-level endurance athletes. However, it is still unclear whether the fluctuations in exercise capacity that typically occur in endurance athletes during the annual training cycle are directly associated with changes in hematological adaptations, which appear to be relatively stable during this time. To better understand this issue, a study was conducted with 10 Olympic rowers, who followed the same training program. Athletes underwent laboratory testing in the competitive and the general preparation phase of an annual training cycle (a 34% reduction in training volume). This included a graded exercise test on a rowing ergometer (GXT) and blood measurements of hemoglobin concentration (Hb), total hemoglobin mass (tHb-mass), plasma volume (PV), and blood volume (BV). Decreases in maximal values of power relative to body mass (p = 0.028), lactate concentration (p = 0.005), and heart rate (p = 0.017) in the GXT were registered. At the same time, absolute (p = 0.017) and relative (p = 0.005) PV decreased. Changes in PV (rS = 0.842, p = 0.002) and BV (rS = 0.818, p = 0.004), but not in tHb-mass (rS = 0.588, p = 0.074) and Hb (rS = -0.188, p = 0.602), were significantly correlated with changes in maximal power in the GXT. Our results indicate a close relationship between changes in intravascular volumes and maximal exercise capacity after a period of reduced training loads in elite endurance athletes.		[Sitkowski, Dariusz; Klusiewicz, Andrzej] Natl Res Inst, Dept Physiol, Inst Sport, Warsaw, Poland; [Pokrywka, Andrzej] Med Univ Warsaw, Dept Biochem & Pharmacogen, Fac Pharm, Warsaw, Poland; [Jankowski, Wojciech] Polish Federat Rowing Assoc, Warsaw, Poland; [Malczewska-Lenczowska, Jadwiga] Natl Res Inst, Dept Physiol Nutr & Dietet, Inst Sport, Warsaw, Poland; [Malczewska-Lenczowska, Jadwiga] Natl Res Inst, Dept Physiol Nutr & Dietet, Inst Sport, Warsaw, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300006	29	Article; Article		
J	Blaszczyk, Janusz W.; Beck, Monika								Posturographic Standards for Optimal Control of Human Standing Posture								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			7	15		10.5114/jhk/159452			2023	2023	Static posturography is a simple non-invasive technique commonly used in contemporary labs and clinics to quantify the central nervous system adaptive mechanisms involved in the control of posture and balance. Its diagnostic value, however, is quite limited due to the lack of posturographic standards for the stable posture. To solve this problem, in this research, we aimed to establish reference values for the stable human posture using our novel parameters of static posturography including the sway anteroposterior directional index (DIAP), the mediolateral directional index (DIML), the stability vector amplitude (SVamp), and the stability vector azimuth (SVaz). Towards this end, in a population of young (mean age 22 yrs), healthy able-bodied volunteers (50 males and 50 females), trajectories of postural sway, based upon the center-of-pressure (COP), were assessed. The experiment consisted of ten 60 s trials that were carried out 5 times while subjects were standing quietly on the force plate with eyes open (EO test) and 5 times with eyes closed (EC test). Results showed that in young healthy subjects, regardless of gender, the basic variables of COP remained at the following levels: SVamp = 9.2 +/- 1.6 mm/s, SVaz = 0.9 +/- 0.1 rad, and directional indices DIAP = 0.7 +/- 0.05, DIML = 0.56 +/- 0.06. Some of the measures were sensitive to visual input (EC trials), and showed a weak to moderate correlation with anthropometric features. These measures can be recommended as reference values that characterize the most stable erect posture.		[Blaszczyk, Janusz W.; Beck, Monika] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland; [Blaszczyk, Janusz W.] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300003	24	Article; Article		
J	Plaza-Florido, Abel; Sacha, Jerzy; Alcantara, Juan M. A.								Heart Rate Variability and Cardiorespiratory Fitness in Youth Populations: The Impact of Heart Rate on Data Analysis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			1	5		10.5114/jhk/159581			2023	2023	The positive association between heart rate variability and cardiorespiratory fitness in youth populations is unclear. In this regard, several methodological aspects related to heart rate variability analysis could partially explain the disagreement between studies. To the best of the authors' knowledge, the influence of the heart rate on data analysis is unclear. In the present short communication, we discuss the impact of the heart rate on the associations between heart rate variability and cardiorespiratory fitness in youth. In addition, we proposed some aspects that should be considered for statistical analyses when the relationship between heart rate variability and cardiorespiratory fitness is studied. Finally, we should acknowledge that these recommendations may be applicable for other health-related outcomes different than cardiorespiratory fitness (e.g., inflammatory markers, cognition, cardiovascular disease status).		[Plaza-Florido, Abel; Alcantara, Juan M. A.] Univ Granada, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, Fac Sport Sci, Sport & Hlth Univ Res Inst iMUDS,PROFITH PROmotin, Granada, Spain; [Sacha, Jerzy] Opole Univ Technol, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Opole, Poland; [Sacha, Jerzy] Univ Opole, Dept Cardiol, Univ Hosp, Opole, Poland; [Plaza-Florido, Abel] Univ Granada, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, Fac Sport Sci, Sport & Hlth Univ Res Inst iMUDS,PROFITH PROmotin, Granada, Spain								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300007	17	Article; Article		
J	Mckellar, Ben J.; Coates, Alexandra M.; Cohen, Jeremy N.; Burr, Jamie F.								Time Management Strategies of Rock Climbers in World Cup Bouldering Finals								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			165	174		10.5114/jhk/159652			2023	2023	Competitive rock climbing recently made its Olympic debut, but minimal published research exists regarding training and competition strategies. Time management strategies define the structured approach climbers take in bouldering competitions to successfully obtain a "top" or a "zone" hold. During finals rounds of the International Federation of Sport Climbing bouldering competitions, climbers are allotted 240 s to complete a boulder. Variables influencing a climber's time management strategies include their work-to-rest intervals, and the frequency of their attempts or rests. Video analysis of International Federation of Sport Climbing competitions was used to collect time management strategy data of professional climbers. Fifty-six boulders (28 female and 28 male boulders) over the 2019 International Federation of Sport Climbing season were analyzed. Time management strategies variables were compared between slab/slab-like and non-slab bouldering styles using generalized estimating equations with significance set to p < 0.05. Additionally, we determined trends in success rates for various styles of boulders. There were no differences in the number of attempts taken per boulder between slab/slab-like and non-slab boulders (3.7 +/- 2.3 and 3.8 +/- 2.4, p = 0.97), but climbers spent more time actively climbing on slab/slab-like (92 +/- 36 s) compared to non-slab boulders (65 +/- 26 s, p < 0.001). Trends in the success rate suggest climbers who take more than 6 attempts on any boulder style are unsuccessful. The results of this study provide practical information that can be used by coaches and athletes to guide training and competition strategy.		[Mckellar, Ben J.; Coates, Alexandra M.; Cohen, Jeremy N.; Burr, Jamie F.] Univ Guelph, Dept Human Hlth & Nutr Sci, Guelph, ON, Canada; [Burr, Jamie F.] Univ Guelph, Dept Human Hlth & Nutr Sci, Guelph, ON, Canada								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300019	16	Article; Article		
J	Alizadeh, Shahab; Vardy, Leah; Forman, Garrick N.; Forman, Davis A.; Holmes, Michael W. R.; Button, Duane C.								Sex Difference in Lower-limb Electromyography and Kinematics when Using Resistance Bands during a Barbell Back Squat								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			17	29		10.5114/jhk/159585			2023	2023	The aim of this study was to compare the muscle activity of the gluteus medius (GMe), gluteus maximus (GMa), biceps femoris (BF), vastus lateralis (VL), vastus medialis (VM) and erector spinae (ES) as well as medial knee displacement (MKD) while using varying stiffness resistance bands (red: 1.68 kg; black: 3.31 kg; gold: 6.44 kg) during a barbell back squat (BBS) among males and females. A total of 23 (females: 11) resistance trained people were recruited for this study. Muscle activity was measured using electromyography, and motion capture cameras tracked lower-limb kinematics and MKD. Three resistance bands were placed at the distal end of the femur while performing a BBS at their 85% repetition maximum (RM). Parametric and non-parametric statistical analyses were conducted with the alpha level of 0.05. The gold resistance band resulted in a smaller knee-width-index value (i.e., greater MKD) compared to other bands (p < 0.01). Males exhibited less MKD compared to females during the BBS for each resistance band (p = 0.04). Males produced greater VL activity when using the black and gold resistance bands during the BBS (p = 0.03). When using a gold resistance band, the GMe muscle activation was higher compared to other resistance bands (p < 0.01). VM muscle activity was reduced when using a gold resistance band compared to no band condition (p < 0.01). BF (p = 0.39) and ES (p = 0.88) muscle activity did not change when using different resistance bands. As a result, females may be at a biomechanical disadvantage when using resistance bands compared to males while performing the BBS hindering them from optimal performance.		[Alizadeh, Shahab; Vardy, Leah; Button, Duane C.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NL, Canada; [Forman, Garrick N.; Holmes, Michael W. R.] Brock Univ, Dept Kinesiol, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Forman, Davis A.] Trent Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Durham, ON, Canada; [Button, Duane C.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Fac Med, St John, NL, Canada; [Button, Duane C.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NL, Canada; [Button, Duane C.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Fac Med, St John, NL, Canada								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300008	39	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Garrido, Nuno D.; Cirilo-Sousa, Maria S.; Silva, Antonio J.; Marinho, Daniel A.								Agreement between Different Methods to Measure the Active Drag Coefficient in Front-Crawl Swimming								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				86	1			41	49		10.5114/jhk/159605			2023	2023	The aim of this study was to analyze the agreement of the active drag coefficient measured through drag and propulsion methods. The sample was composed of 18 swimmers (nine boys: 15.9 +/- 0.9 years; nine girls: 15.3 +/- 1.2 years) recruited from a national swimming team. The velocity perturbation method was used as the drag measurement system and the Aquanex system as the propulsion system. For both sexes combined, the frontal surface area was 0.1128 +/- 0.016 m(2), swim velocity 1.54 +/- 0.13 m.s(-1), active drag 62.81 +/- 11.37 N, propulsion 68.81 +/- 12.41 N. The level of the active drag coefficient agreement was calculated based on the mean values comparison, simple linear regression, and Bland Altman plots. The mean data comparison revealed non-significant differences (p > 0.05) between methods to measure the active drag coefficient. Both the linear regression (R-2 = 0.82, p < 0.001) and Bland Altman plots revealed a very high agreement. The active drag coefficient should be the main outcome used in the interpretation of the swimmers' hydrodynamic profile, because it is less sensitive to swimming velocity. Coaches and researchers should be aware that the active drag coefficient can also be calculated based on propulsion methods and not just based on drag methods. Thus, the swimming community can now use different equipment to measure the hydrodynamics of their swimmers.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sports Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Garrido, Nuno D.; Silva, Antonio J.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Garrido, Nuno D.; Silva, Antonio J.] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Cirilo-Sousa, Maria S.] Univ Fed Paraiba, Dept Phys Educ LABOCINE, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sports Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sports Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:001126121300010	37	Article; Article		
J	Bendixen, Jake B.; Biddinger, Ben T.; Simon, Janet E.; Monfort, Scott M.; Grooms, Dustin R.								Effects of virtual reality immersion on postural stability during a dynamic transition task								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	4			859	873		10.1080/14763141.2022.2162434			APR 3 2025	2025	Dynamic postural stability paradigms with virtual reality (VR) provide a means to simulate real-world postural challenges and induce customised but controlled perturbations. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of a VR unanticipated perceptual sport perturbation on postural stability compared to traditional methods. Sixteen individuals between the ages of 18-23 years (19.5 +/- 1.4 years) with no history of injury within 12 months were recruited. A double-leg to single-leg transition task was performed on a force plate in one of the following conditions: eyes open (EO), eyes closed (EC), a sport video with a standard non-immersive computer monitor (SV), and VR. The VR and SV conditions used a pre-recorded tackle avoidance task video where participants shifted to a leg in the opposite direction of a simulated opponent, while EC and EO were completed with auditory prompts. Relative to the EO condition, EC and VR induced greater postural instability. The largest effect sizes were between VR and EO for path length (g = 3.57), mean velocity anterior-posterior centre of pressure (CoP) (g = 3.65), and mean velocity medial-lateral CoP (g = 3.27). By including VR, the difficulty of a clinically based postural stability task was increased to the level of EC while accounting for the sporting environment.		[Bendixen, Jake B.; Biddinger, Ben T.; Simon, Janet E.; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Coll Hlth Sci & Profess, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Simon, Janet E.; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Ohio Musculoskeletal & Neurol Inst, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Monfort, Scott M.] Montana State Univ, Dept Mech & Ind Engn, Bozeman, MT USA; [Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Coll Hlth Sci & Profess, Sch Rehabil & Commun Sci, Athens, OH USA; [Simon, Janet E.] Ohio Univ, Coll Hlth Sci & Profess, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Simon, Janet E.] Ohio Univ, Ohio Musculoskeletal & Neurol Inst, Athens, OH 45701 USA								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000907235200001	41	Article; Article		
J	Horiuchi, Gen; Nakashima, Hirotaka								Relationship between ground reaction force in horizontal plane and mechanical energy flow in torso during baseball tee batting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3346	3357		10.1080/14763141.2022.2162433			DEC 1 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to clarify the relationship between the ground reaction force (GRF) in the horizontal plane and the mechanical energy flow in the torso during baseball tee batting. The batting motion and GRF acting on each foot of 30 collegiate baseball players were recorded using a motion capture system and two force plates. To measure the mechanical energy inflow into the torso from both hip joints, the mechanical power of the torso by the force and torque of both hip joints was calculated. The horizontal GRF variables of the stride foot were significantly correlated with mechanical energy inflow into the lower torso from the hip joint of the stride foot side. Conversely, the horizontal GRF variables of the pivot foot were not significantly correlated with mechanical energy inflow into the lower torso from the hip joint of the pivot foot side. Thus, these results suggest that exploring the posture easily to receive the horizontal GRF by the stride foot (i.e., optimisation of magnitude and/or angle of GRF acting on the stride foot) increases the mechanical energy inflow into the lower torso from the hip joint of the stride foot side during baseball batting.		[Horiuchi, Gen] Kansai Univ, Fac Hlth & Well Being, Osaka, Japan; [Nakashima, Hirotaka] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Horiuchi, Gen] Kansai Univ, Fac Hlth & Well Being, Osaka, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000906669000001	32	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Catarina C.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Costa, Mario J.								Association between the dry-land strength & power and the kick start kinetics in elite male and female swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3202	3212		10.1080/14763141.2022.2158921			DEC 1 2024	2024	The aim of this research was to determine the association between dry-land exercises and the start kinetics in elite swimmers. Fourteen swimmers (eight males and six females) included in a national team took part in this study. A fixed smith-machine was used to measure the maximal full squat strength (Smax). The height of squat (SJ) and countermovement (CMJ) jumps were collected with a contact mat. The ground reaction force of the kick starts in the three-dimensional axis (Fz horizontal; Fy, vertical; Fx, lateral) was obtained by an instrumented force plate in the starting block. Overall, the Smax showed a high and significant association with Fz (r = 0.60) and Fy (r = 0.87). Moderate and significant associations were found between Fy and SJ (r = 0.51) and CMJ (r = 0.57). While Smax in males showed high association with Fy (r = 0.77), the Smax for females showed greater association with Fz (r = 0.84). As conclusion, the full back squat seems to be the dry-land exercise with higher association with the kick start kinetics. While in males the full squat defines better the vertical component, for females it defines the horizontal one.		[Santos, Catarina C.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina C.] Polytech Inst Guarda, Dept Sport Sci, Guarda, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina C.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Marinho, Daniel A.] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Costa, Mario J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP UP, Porto, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina C.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina C.] Polytech Inst Guarda, Dept Sport Sci, Guarda, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina C.] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000904993400001	33	Article; Article		
J	Ferdinands, R. E. D.; Deshpande, Y.; Felton, Paul; Conno, Jonathan								Kinetics of the front-arm technique in cricket fast bowling								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2205	2215		10.1177/17479541221124073			DEC 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to investigate the kinetics of the front arm in cricket fast bowling. Eighteen male fast bowlers (mean age = 17.2 +/- 1.6 years; mean height = 1.89 +/- 0.05 m; mean mass = 85.0 +/- 10.0 kg) were recruited from NSW grade club level and their bowling actions recorded by a Cortex 2.0 motion analysis system (200 Hz). The interaction between joint power and joint angular velocity data was observed simultaneously for the front shoulder and elbow joints. A joint actuation strategy (active or controlled) was assigned to shoulder flexion-extension, abduction-adduction, and elbow flexion-extension motion to understand whether the joint kinematics followed the time-history of the joint torque. The results only partially agreed with the commonly prescribed coaching maxim of "pulling down" the front arm for faster ball speeds. Active extension and adduction of the front shoulder joint were observed during the delivery phase of the action, whereas the acceleration phase was marked by periods of controlled shoulder extension and active shoulder flexion. At the elbow joint, active elbow flexion was observed at a time when it may reduce the moment of inertia about the thoracic and lumbar spine rotation axes. Overall, combinations of active and controlled joint powers were observed for the front shoulder and elbow joints, implying that this sample of bowlers did not adhere to the traditional notion of "pulling down" the front arm as fast as possible.		[Felton, Paul] Nottingham Trent Univ, Nottingham, England; [Conno, Jonathan] James Cook Univ, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Ferdinands, R. E. D.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Deshpande, Y.] Cricket Revolut, Bangalore, Karnataka, India; [Ferdinands, R. E. D.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Susan Wakil Hlth Bldg D18, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000903766700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Huang, I-Chen; Lee, Ping-Chao; Nien, Chiao-Lin; Lin, Chien-Yu								Exploring coaching leadership behaviors among top-division university badminton teams in Taiwan: A "Five Cardinal Relationships" (Wulun) perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			642	654		10.1177/17479541221147656			JUN 2023	2023	This study examines coaching leadership behaviors among top-division university badminton teams in Taiwan. Our analytical framework is based on the concepts of Confucianism and its values regarding the behaviors proposed by Mencius that comprise the "Five Cardinal Relationships" (Wulun). As Confucianism is the basis for the Chinese order, Wulun is a unique cultural phenomenon in Chinese society that dominates role norms and duties. A total of 10 relationships based on the relationships associated with Wulun shape the relationship networks of Chinese individuals and thus the behaviors of individual Chinese people. Methodologically, 10 interviews were conducted with two coaches, two player coaching assistants and six players from two first-division university badminton teams in Taiwan. Paternal leadership is a style of leadership associated with authority, discipline, fatherly benevolence and strong morals. First, our results indicate that on Taiwanese sports teams, the leadership behavior of a coach must meet the expectations associated with Wulun relationships. If there is a threat to the image required to play this role, authoritarian leadership becomes the most commonly used style. Second, when a coach consciously demonstrates benevolent and virtuous leadership, relationships have the potential to evolve into friendships. Third, when a coach delegates power to an assistant, the assistant's leadership style becomes rather similar to that of the head coach, thereby maintaining harmony in relationships.		[Huang, I-Chen; Lee, Ping-Chao] Natl Taichung Univ Educ, Dept Phys Educ, 140 Min Shen Rd, Taichung 403, Taiwan; [Nien, Chiao-Lin] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Dept Phys Educ, Taichung, Taiwan; [Lin, Chien-Yu] Natl Chung Hsing Univ, Grad Inst Sports & Hlth Management, Taichung, Taiwan; [Lee, Ping-Chao] Natl Taichung Univ Educ, Dept Phys Educ, 140 Min Shen Rd, Taichung 403, Taiwan								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000904739800001	96	Article; Article		
J	Funahashi, Hiroaki; Cardazzi, Alexander; Watanabe, Nicholas Masafumi								Mass Gathering Sport Events and the Spread of Viral Respiratory Infection: Japanese Professional Baseball and Influenza								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	5			551	578		10.1177/15270025221143978			JUN 2023	2023	Using weekly-level influenza case data from all 47 prefectures in Japan alongside data from Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) league from 1999 to 2018, we examine the effect of hosting games on local influenza transmission. The results highlight that during the flu season, for every NPB game held at its home ballpark, there is an average increase of 0.18 cases per sentinel medical institution (SMI) between that week and the following week. The effects are robust to different specifications and placebo tests. This translates to about a 0.1% increase in the number of cases during the overlap of NPB and flu seasons.		[Funahashi, Hiroaki] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Toyota, Japan; [Cardazzi, Alexander] Old Dominion Univ, Strome Coll Business, Norfolk, VA USA; [Watanabe, Nicholas Masafumi] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC USA; [Funahashi, Hiroaki] Chukyo Univ, 101 Tokodachi,Kaizu Cho, Toyota, Aichi 4700393, Japan; [Funahashi, Hiroaki] Chukyo Univ, 101 Tokodachi,Kaizu Cho, Toyota, Aichi 4700393, Japan								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000904704600001	44	Article; Article		
J	Malloy, Ella; Yukhymenko-Lescroart, Mariya A.; Kavussanu, Maria								Investigating the Relationship Between Authentic Leadership and Athletes' Commitment, Positive Affect, and Perceived Teammate Prosocial Behaviour via Trust and Team Culture								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1082	1090		10.1177/17479541221139280			AUG 2023	2023	Authentic leadership is a genuine form of leadership in which leaders demonstrate behaviours in line with their moral values. Research has started to examine this leadership style and its impact on a range of athlete outcomes. The aim of this study was to investigate whether coaches' authentic leadership, as perceived by their athletes, is related to athletes' commitment, positive affect and perceived teammate prosocial behaviour via trust and team culture. Participants were 366 (240 females, M-age = 21.07) athletes, participating mostly in team sports, who completed questionnaires assessing the aforementioned variables. Using multilevel path analysis, we found that authentic leadership was positively related to athletes' commitment and positive affect via trust and team culture, as well as to perceived teammate prosocial behaviour via trust. Our findings enhance our understanding of authentic leadership in sport and highlight its importance in predicting a range of outcomes. The findings suggest that authentic leadership in coaches could be key to creating more positive environments in sport.		[Malloy, Ella] Univ Suffolk, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Waterfront Bldg, 19 Neptune Quay, Ipswich IP4, England; [Yukhymenko-Lescroart, Mariya A.] Calif State Univ Fresno, Dept Curriculum & Instruct, Fresno, CA USA; [Kavussanu, Maria] Univ Birmingham, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, England; [Malloy, Ella] Univ Suffolk, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Waterfront Bldg, 19 Neptune Quay, Ipswich IP4, England								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000903765900001	46	Article; Article		
J	O'Connor, Ciaran; McIntyre, Martin; Delahunt, Eamonn; Thorborg, Kristian								Reliability and validity of common hip adduction strength measures: The ForceFrame strength testing system versus the sphygmomanometer								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				162	167		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.12.010			JAN 2023	2023	Objectives: The criterion validity of the sphygmomanometer was evaluated, relative to the Force Frame strength testing system. Test-retest reliability was assessed for both hip adduction and abduction strength.Design: Test-retest reliability study and criterion validity study. Participants: 50 asymptomatic, field-sport athletes.Main outcome measures: Maximal isometric hip adduction and abduction strength were measured. Interclass correlation coefficient(ICC2,1) with confidence intervals were calculated to evaluate reliability of peak strength values. A Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient(r) was calculated to examine criterion validity of the sphygmomanometer as a measure of force when compared to the ForceFrame.Results: Intra-rater reliability for bilateral adduction testing using both ForceFrame and sphygmoma-nometer values revealed good-excellent reliability for both the 0 degrees (ICC2.1 = 0.87-0.90) and 45 degrees (ICC2.1 = 0.81-0.91) positions. ForceFrame values revealed good-excellent reliability for 0 degrees abduction position and 45 degrees abduction position. A good-moderate relationship (Pearson's r = 0.63) for 0 degrees adduction position, and poor relationship (Pearson's r = 0.40) for 45 degrees adduction position, were found between adduction squeeze values on ForceFrame and sphygmomanometer. Conclusion: Excellent reliability in hip adduction squeeze strength testing for both modes. However, there exists a 'good to moderate' -'fair' relationship between the Force Frame and sphygmomanometer.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[O'Connor, Ciaran; Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [McIntyre, Martin] Sports Injuries & Sport Med Clin, Castlebar, Mayo, Ireland; [Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; [Thorborg, Kristian] Univ Copenhagen, Amager Hvidovre Hosp, Inst Clin Med,Dept Orthoped Surg, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Copenhagen, Denmark; [O'Connor, Ciaran] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland								28							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000912358100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Stevenson, Neil Gordon; Harris, Rachel; Montag, Jemima; Stay, Sharon; Perera, Nirmala K. Panagodage								The development and test-retest reliability of the periodic health evaluation for female athletes (PHE FA) survey								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	6			615	620		10.1080/00913847.2022.2158386			NOV 2 2023	2023	ObjectivesTo develop and assess the test-retest reliability of a survey exploring Australian high-performance female athlete's perspectives toward the periodic health evaluation and their perceived health needs.MethodsA structured three-phase method for survey development was used to develop the periodic health evaluation for female athletes (PHE FA) survey. Initially, a literature review and gap analysis was performed to identify themes and questions (Phase 1). Survey questions were developed covering demographic information (n = 9); sports-related medical screening (n = 19) and health needs and information (n = 7) (Phase 2). Test-retest reliability of the survey was then assessed (Phase 3). The survey was administered to a purposeful sample of seven high-performance level female athletes who completed the survey, on two separate occasions, 3 weeks apart via Checkbox (c) survey software (Checkbox Technology Inc., San Francisco, CA). Test-retest reliability was assessed using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC).ResultsThe mean age of the athletes was 29 years (SD 4 years, range 24-34 years). All were able-bodied athletes and 71% participated in team sports. Eighty-six percent of athletes have competed in world championships and 71% were Olympians. The average ICC of all items was 0.998 (95% CI 0.997-0.998, p = 0.000) demonstrating excellent consistency of measures between the two time points.All the athletes preferred a Sport and Exercise Medicine Physician to conduct their PHE and 86% preferred a female doctor. The key topics of interest were pelvic floor health including incontinence (100%); fertility (86%); pregnancy (71%); and mental and emotional wellbeing (71%). Face-to-face education was the preferred option to receive health information.ConclusionsThe PHE FA survey was co-created with an athlete and other key stakeholders. Excellent consistency of measures between the two time points was indicated by the high test-retest reliability of the PHE FA survey. Data collected using the PHE FA survey can contribute to informed evidence-based policies, and processes to support the health and wellbeing of female athletes.		[Stevenson, Neil Gordon] Univ Queensland, Fac Med, Brisbane, Australia; [Harris, Rachel; Perera, Nirmala K. Panagodage] Australian Inst Sport, Female Performance & Hlth Initiat, Bruce, Australia; [Montag, Jemima] Athlet Australia, Melbourne, Australia; [Stay, Sharon] Queensland Acad Sport, Performance Hlth Dept, Brisbane, Australia; [Stevenson, Neil Gordon] Mayne Med Sch, Fac Med, 20 Weightman St, Brisbane, Qld 4006, Australia; [Stevenson, Neil Gordon] Mayne Med Sch, Fac Med, 20 Weightman St, Brisbane, Qld 4006, Australia								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000901405500001	33	Article; Article		
J	Wells, Leighton; Konoval, Timothy; Bruce, Lyndell; Couture, Jess; Knechtle, Beat								An examination of how and why triathlon coaches use a suite of technologies in their practice								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			687	694		10.1177/17479541221144129			JUN 2023	2023	Current literature has examined the technical aspects of triathlon, technologies used in triathlon, and coaching practice in isolation. However, what is not known, and what this research will examine for the first time, are the relationship between these elements and how they interconnect and influence each other. The study also examines how coaches decide what technology to use and why, in relation to their coaching philosophy. Seven individual 1-hour interviews were conducted via video conference with national and international triathlon coaches. The coaches (n = 7) had varying backgrounds, including former elite-level athletes, sport science professionals, and health science graduates. Using a qualitative inductive and deductive thematic analysis, four central themes were discovered. Findings indicate that the opportunities and challenges of implementing new and emerging technologies are ongoing, with coaches not always having consistent views, levels of flexibility, or open-mindedness as to which technologies to use and why. Notably, coaches are concerned about athletes' over-reliance on technology and the data it produces, impacting the athlete's perception of their effort. We conclude that despite switching between different philosophical views of technology, coaches ultimately choose a suite of technologies based on comfort in addition to selecting tools that will enhance the performance of their athletes. Coaches also prioritise the health and well-being of their athletes and will use technology to assist in collecting data to aid in this process. Finally, coaches want athletes to stay 'in tune' with their inner sense of effort, and not become overly reliant on objective data.		[Wells, Leighton; Konoval, Timothy; Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Couture, Jess] Univ Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801 USA; [Knechtle, Beat] Univ Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; [Wells, Leighton] Deakin Univ, Fac Hlth, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, 75 Pigdons Rd, Geelong, Vic 3212, Australia								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000901415600001	35	Article; Article		
J	Kidokoro, Shuji; Inaba, Yuki; Yoshida, Kazuto; Yamada, Koshi; Ozaki, Hiroki								A topspin rate exceeding 110 rps reduces the ball time of arrival to the opponent: a table tennis rally study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	3			778	794		10.1080/14763141.2022.2156916			MAR 4 2025	2025	This study experimentally investigated the factors affecting the time a table tennis ball with topspin takes to reach the opponent. Six skilled young players and one coach performed topspin forehand strokes under the observation of three high-speed cameras. As the distribution of the participants' measurements was uneven, additional data were collected using a launching machine that could control the ball speed and spin. To verify the effect of the spin rate on speed decay by drag, the translational speed was measured at 0.15 s after passing the baseline (23 m/s); the balls with topspin >= 110 rps, close to participants' average (117 +/- 29 rps) were 1.4 m/s faster than those with topspin <= 80 rps. The horizontal ball speed changed in the range of -3.1 to 2.6 m/s owing to table bounce. At topspins >= 110 rps the ball reached a point 1 m past the end line (estimated receiving position) 27 +/- 5 ms faster than at topspins <= 80 rps, for the same initial speed. The relationship between spin rate and travel time was non-linear with boundaries at 80 and 110 rps. Therefore, maintaining a spin rate of >= 110 rps along with a high initial speed is an effective strategy for reducing the opponent's preparation time.		[Kidokoro, Shuji; Inaba, Yuki; Ozaki, Hiroki] Japan Inst Sport Sci, Dept Sports Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Yoshida, Kazuto] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Chiba, Japan; [Yamada, Koshi] Japan Table Tennis Assoc, Tokyo, Japan; [Kidokoro, Shuji] Japan Inst Sport Sci, Dept Sports Res, Tokyo, Japan								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000899287400001	25	Article; Article		
J	Lyons, Joseph G. G.; Hudson, Tanner L.; Krishnamurthy, Anil B. B.								Epidemiology of patellar dislocations in the United States from 2001 to 2020: results of a national emergency department database								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				52	1			26	35		10.1080/00913847.2022.2156765			JAN 2 2024	2024	ObjectivesRecent studies have shown an increasing incidence of patellar dislocations among children and adolescents. Updated, population-based studies of all patellar dislocations in the United States (US), however, are lacking. This study investigated recent trends in injury rates and demographics among patients sustaining patellar dislocations in the US from 2001 to 2020.MethodsThis descriptive epidemiologic study retrospectively analyzed the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database to identify cases of acute patellar dislocations presenting to US Emergency Departments (EDs) from 2001 to 2020. Annual, overall, and age-adjusted incidence rates (IRs, expressed per 100,000 at-risk person-years) and additional patient/injury characteristics were analyzed. Average annual percent change (AAPC) estimates are presented to indicate the magnitude/direction of trends in annual injury rates.ResultsAn estimated total of 159,529 patellar dislocations occurred over the study period for an overall IR of 2.58 (95% CI = 2.04-3.12). Accounting for population growth, the overall annual incidence increased significantly from 2.61 in 2001 to 3.0 in 2020 (AAPC = 2.8, p < 0.0001). When considering sex and age, statistically significant increases in annual IRs were observed among males aged 10-19 years (AAPC = 3.8, p < 0.0001), females aged 10-19 years (AAPC = 5.3, p < 0.0001), and females aged 20-29 years (AAPC = 3.5, p = 0.0152), while no significant changes were observed in any other age groups. Two-thirds of patellar dislocations involved sports-related injury mechanisms. The annual incidence of both sports-related and non-sports-related injuries increased significantly over the study period (sports-related: AAPC = 2.6, p = 0.0001; non-sports-related: AAPC = 3.4, p = 0.0001). Athletic patellar dislocations occurred most commonly in basketball and dance.ConclusionThe number of patients sustaining patellar dislocations is increasing in the US. Similar increasing trends were observed in both males and females aged 10-19 years, whereas injury rates increased in the third decade only among females. A large percentage of injuries occur during athletic activity, but both sports- and non-sports-related patellar dislocations are on the rise.		[Lyons, Joseph G. G.; Hudson, Tanner L.; Krishnamurthy, Anil B. B.] Wright State Univ Boonshoft Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Dayton, OH USA; [Lyons, Joseph G. G.] Wright State Univ Boonshoft Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 30 E Apple St Suite 2200, Dayton, OH 45409 USA; [Lyons, Joseph G. G.] Wright State Univ Boonshoft Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 30 E Apple St Suite 2200, Dayton, OH 45409 USA								25							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000897928900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Ross, Keir A.; Mojica, Edward S.; Lott, Ariana; Carter, Cordelia; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem								Characterization of pincer-type Hip impingement in professional women's ice hockey players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	6			610	614		10.1080/00913847.2022.2157683			NOV 2 2023	2023	ObjectiveFemoroacetabular impingement (FAI) appears common in ice hockey, but there is a lack of data examining pincer-type impingement in women's ice hockey athletes. The objective of this study was to assess the prevalence of pincer-type impingement in National Women's Hockey League (NWHL) athletes. Our hypothesis was that there would be an increased prevalence of pincer impingement in these athletes.MethodsData were gathered for a team of NWHL players, and age, gender, and body mass index (BMI) matched controls were also retrospectively collected. All subjects were above 18 years of age. Control patients were excluded if they had undergone prior hip surgery, were greater than age 30, or had BMI greater than 35. Radiographs of both groups were assessed for lateral center edge angle (LCEA), Tonnis angle, and crossover sign. Tonnis angle 40 degrees was considered pincer morphology. An alpha angle >55 degrees was considered cam morphology.ResultsThirty-seven NWHL players and 37 female controls were included. Overall 32% of the players had a pincer lesion in either hip based on LCEA, 8% had a Tonnis angle <0, and 22% had a crossover sign in either hip compared to 9%, 19%, and 13% for the controls, respectively. None of these findings were significantly different between the groups (p > 0.05). An alpha angle >= 55 degrees in either hip was found in 84% of players, but lateral Dunn images for alpha angle measurements were not available for the control group.ConclusionsPincer-type morphology and crossover signs were present in a larger portion of NWHL players than has been reported in the general population, but these findings were not statistically different than in the control group. Cam-type morphology was even more prevalent in these athletes and may be related to age at menarche due impingement at the physis prior to closure.		[Ross, Keir A.; Mojica, Edward S.; Lott, Ariana; Carter, Cordelia; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem] New York Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Sch Med, New York, NY USA; [Ross, Keir A.] NYU Langone Orthopaed Hosp, 301 E 17th St,Suite 1402, New York, NY 10003 USA; [Ross, Keir A.] NYU Langone Orthopaed Hosp, 301 E 17th St,Suite 1402, New York, NY 10003 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000898043300001	20	Article; Article		
J	Montalto, Mary C.; Thoma, Louise M.; McNally, Michael P.; Hewett, Timothy E.; Paterno, Mark, V; Schmitt, Laura C.								Predictions of total work based on measures of muscle strength and hop performance in individuals after ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				130	135		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.11.003			JAN 2023	2023	Objectives: The purpose of this study was to determine the ability to utilize clinical measures of hop performance and thigh muscle strength to predict total limb work, a measure of cumulative single leg power, in young athletes at the time of return to sport after ACLR. We hypothesized that hop test per-formance and thigh muscle strength would predict total limb work during a maximal effort repeated vertical single-leg jump and that hop test performance would better predict total limb work during a maximal effort repeated vertical single-leg jump than measures of thigh strength.Design: Cross-sectional study.Participants: Analysis on data from 50 individuals after unilateral ACLR (74% women, age 14-23 years)Main outcome measures: Performed 10-s repeated vertical single-leg jump test on a force platform where single limb power and resultant total work were calculated. At the same session, participants completed a clinical single leg hop test battery and thigh strength testing.Results: All clinical measures were associated with total work during the repeated vertical single-leg jump test on the involved and uninvolved limbs, respectfully. After controlling for height and weight, quadriceps femoris peak torque at 180O/s was the strongest predictor of total work for both limbs. On the involved limb, performance on the triple hop test for distance also uniquely contributed to the prediction of total work.Conclusions: Quadriceps femoris muscle strength and distance hop test performance predict total limb work capacity of the involved limb during a single-leg dynamic task. Optimizing both measures after ACLR may positively impact vital components of sports performance.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Montalto, Mary C.; Schmitt, Laura C.] Ohio State Univ, Jameson Crane Sports Med Inst, OSU Sports Med, Columbus, OH USA; [Thoma, Louise M.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Allied Hlth Sci, Div Phys Therapy, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [McNally, Michael P.] Tampa Bay Rays Baseball Club, St Petersburg, FL USA; [Hewett, Timothy E.] Hewett Global Consulting, Rochester, MN USA; [Paterno, Mark, V] Univ Cincinnati, Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Coll Med, Dept Pediat,Div Occupat Therapy & Phys Therapy,Div, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Schmitt, Laura C.] Ohio State Univ, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Div Phys Therapy, Columbus, OH USA; [Hewett, Timothy E.] Rocky Mt Consortium Sports Res, Edwards, CO USA; [Montalto, Mary C.] 2835 Fred Taylor Dr,Suite 3000, Columbus, OH 43202 USA; [Montalto, Mary C.] 2835 Fred Taylor Dr,Suite 3000, Columbus, OH 43202 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000910844900001	28	Article; Article		
J	Muniz, Adriane Mara de Souza; Zeitoune, Gabriel; Alvim, Felipe; Grassi, Giordano B. A.; Britto, Paulo A. A.; Nadal, Jurandir								Do exist differences in kinematics and EMG of the hip and knee between male runners with and without patellofemoral pain in different running speeds?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				122	129		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.12.006			JAN 2023	2023	Objective: Patellofemoral pain (PFP) presents a higher prevalence in female runners, while PFP in male is somehow neglected. Moreover, the effects of progressive greater running speed have not been reported. This study investigates the influence of progressive greater running speed on lower limb tridimensional kinematics and muscle activation (EMG) in male runners with PFP while compared with controls.Design: Cross-Sectional Design.Methods: Thirteen runners with PFP and 18 controls ran in a treadmill under three different speeds: 9,11, and 13 km/h. Principal component scores from kinematic data and EMG onset and amplitude were used to compare groups through the Mann-Whitney test at each running speed.Results: Male PFP subjects presented increased hip internal rotation at 11 km/h and increased hip and knee internal at 13 km/h, as well as reduced knee adduction at all speeds. PFP subjects also ran with delayed and shorter vastus medialis oblique pre-activation compared with normal subjects.Conclusions: This study demonstrated that PFP increased knee and hip internal rotation at higher de-mand running, therefore, it is important to evaluate the transverse plane of the hip and knee biome-chanics in male runners with PFP to optimize the rehabilitation and reconditioning method of these subjects.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Muniz, Adriane Mara de Souza; Grassi, Giordano B. A.] Escola Educ Fis Exercito, EsEFEx, Exercito Brasileiro, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Muniz, Adriane Mara de Souza; Zeitoune, Gabriel; Britto, Paulo A. A.; Nadal, Jurandir] Univ Fed Rio Janeiro, Programa Engn Biomed PEB, COPPE, UFRJ, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Alvim, Felipe] Fac Ciencias Med & Saude Juiz Fora, SUPREMA, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Muniz, Adriane Mara de Souza] Av Joao Luis Alves, S-N, BR-22291090 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Muniz, Adriane Mara de Souza] Av Joao Luis Alves, S-N, BR-22291090 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000906887000001	52	Article; Article		
J	Sonesson, S.; Dahlstrom, O.; Perera, N. K. Panagodage; Hagglund, M.								Risk factors for injury and illness in youth floorball players- A prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				92	102		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.11.008			JAN 2023	2023	Objectives: To investigate risk factors for injury and illness in female and male youth floorball players (12-17 years) during a 26-week floorball season. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Recreational youth sport. Participants: 471 players (142 females) 12-17 years. Main outcome measures: Weekly survey including questions about stress, sleep quality, well-being, sport exposure and average weekly rating of perceived exertion (RPE). Acute:chronic workload ratio (ACWR) was calculated. The Oslo Sports Trauma Research Center questionnaire on health problems was used. Predictors of new injury and illness were examined using multi-level logistic regression models with weekly measures nested within individuals. Results: Higher stress, poorer sleep quality and well-being increased the odds of a new injury in the subsequent week by 8% (2.0-13.5%), 10% (4.2-15.9%) and 8% (2.4-13.5%) per 1 unit increase. Higher stress, and poorer well-being increased the odds of illness by 8% (2.6-12.6%), and 12% (7.2-16.6%). ACWR below 0.8 or above 1.3 increased the odds of illness by 34% (4.9-70.8%). Conclusions: Perceived stress, well-being, and sleep quality were associated with injury and illness occurrence in the subsequent week. ACWR outside the range 0.8-1.3 was associated with illness the subsequent week. Trial registration: Clinical Trials registration NCT03309904. (c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Sonesson, S.; Perera, N. K. Panagodage; Hagglund, M.] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden; [Sonesson, S.; Perera, N. K. Panagodage; Hagglund, M.] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Sport Injury ProgrammE SWIPE, Linkoping, Sweden; [Dahlstrom, O.] Linkoping Univ, Dept Behav Sci & Learning, Linkoping, Sweden; [Dahlstrom, O.] Linkoping Univ, Athlet Res Ctr, Linkoping, Sweden; [Perera, N. K. Panagodage] Australian Inst Sport, Sport Med, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Sonesson, S.] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000906336900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Yamamoto, Keizo; Nishino, Takahiro; Bale, Rahul; Shimada, Tokimasa; Miyamoto, Naoto; Tsubokura, Makoto								Numerical study of transient aerodynamic forces acting on a ski jumper considering dynamic posture change from takeoff to landing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	3			763	777		10.1080/14763141.2022.2154256			MAR 4 2025	2025	This study was designed to develop a computational fluid dynamics (CFD) method for unsteady analysis of a series of ski jump movements with attitude changes, and to analyse the aerodynamic characteristics of an expert jumper over the entire ski jump movement. Two ski jumpers participated in this study. A sensor-based motion capture suit was used to capture the jumper's posture during the actual ski jump. A three-dimensional computer graphics animation was created by superimposing the joint angles obtained from the motion measurements of the 3D shape of the athlete. The unsteady aerodynamic forces acting on the ski jumper, from the takeoff to the landing, were then calculated using CFD. A time-varying spatially uniform flow was specified as the inflow boundary condition of the computational domain. The results indicated that both the lift and drag forces of the expert jumper increase rapidly during the initial flight when the jumper's posture changes drastically. Thereafter, drag force decreased considerably, but the decrease in the lift force was less drastic. Later in the flight phase, the lift force acting on the expert jumper increased, and throughout the flight phase, the lift-drag ratio of the expert jumper remained higher than that of the unskilled jumper.		[Yamamoto, Keizo] Hokusho Univ, Sch Lifelong Sport, Ebetsu, Japan; [Nishino, Takahiro; Shimada, Tokimasa; Tsubokura, Makoto] Kobe Univ, Grad Sch Syst Informat, Kobe, Japan; [Bale, Rahul; Tsubokura, Makoto] RIKEN Adv Inst Computat Sci, Complex Phenomena Unified Simulat Res Team, Kobe, Japan; [Miyamoto, Naoto] Tohoku Univ, New Ind Creat Hatchery Ctr, Sendai, Japan; [Yamamoto, Keizo] Hokusho Univ, Sch Lifelong Sport, Ebetsu, Japan								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000898247600001	20	Article; Article		
J	Rosen, Adam B.; Choi, Ji Yeon; Anderson, Katie; Remski, Lindsey E.; Knarr, Brian A.								Development, validity, and test-retest reliability of a new neurocognitive functional performance test: The choice-reaction hop test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				80	84		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.12.003			JAN 2023	2023	Objectives: To validate a choice-reaction hop test (CRHT) by assessing differences in timing versus the side-hop test (SHT), and to determine the CRHT's test-retest reliability.Design: Test-retest reliability.Setting: Laboratory.Participants: Forty-nine healthy adults participated (16 female; age = 22.7 +/- 3.4 years; height = 174.9 +/- 9.1 cm; mass = 75.4 +/- 14.8 kg).Main outcome measures: Participants completed three trials each of the SHT and the CRHT in a coun-terbalanced order. Participants returned one-week later to repeat the CRHT. The fastest and the mean of the three trials were compared.Results: Participants took significantly longer to complete the CRHT (Mean across 3 trials = 21.4 +/- 3.4s, Fastest trial = 19.7 +/- 3.0s) compared to the traditional SHT (10.4 +/- 2.0s, p < 0.001). The CRHT demon-strated good-excellent test-retest reliability across testing days for both the mean across 3 trials (r = 0.890, p < 0.001, SEM = 1.13) and the fastest trial (r = 0.828, p < 0.001, SEM = 1.24). Conclusion: Compared to the SHT, the CRHT took longer to complete indicating its ability to stress neurocognitive function during an FPT. The CRHT demonstrated good-excellent test-retest reliability, which may allow it to be a useful measure in serial evaluations such as during rehabilitation bench -marking. The CRHT may be an effective FPT to assess combined physical and neurocognitive function to assist clinicians in evidence-based decision-making.(c) 2022 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Rosen, Adam B.; Choi, Ji Yeon] Univ Nebraska Omaha, Sch Hlth & Kinesiol, Omaha, NE 68182 USA; [Anderson, Katie; Remski, Lindsey E.; Knarr, Brian A.] Univ Nebraska Omaha, Dept Biomech, Omaha, NE USA; [Rosen, Adam B.] Univ Nebraska Omaha, Sch Hlth & Kinesiol, Omaha, NE 68182 USA								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000911775100001	24	Article; Article		
J	Macedo, Anthony; Ferreira Dias, Marta; Mourao, Paulo Reis								European Men's Club Football in the Eyes of Consumers: The Determinants of Television Broadcast Demand								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	5			579	623		10.1177/15270025221143982			JUN 2023	2023	Using stated preferences, this study estimates the determinants of television broadcast demand for current European men's club football competitions and a hypothetical European Super League. The results suggest that demand increases for most competitions with the consumer's level of interest, the accessibility to the matches, and the consumer being fan of a club playing in that competition. No support to the uncertainty-of-outcome hypothesis is found, as perceived competitive balance does not increase demand for most competitions. Conversely, the perception of quality of game played tends to be a more important driver of demand, influencing more competitions and having a larger impact.		[Macedo, Anthony; Ferreira Dias, Marta] Univ Aveiro, Dept Econ, Res Unit Governance Competitiveness & Publ Pol GOV, Dept Econ Management Ind Engn & Tourism DEGEIT, Aveiro, Portugal; [Mourao, Paulo Reis] Univ Minho, Ctr Res Econ & Management NIPE, Econ & Management Sch EEG, Braga, Portugal; [Macedo, Anthony] Univ Aveiro, Dept Econ Management Ind Engn & Tourism DEGEIT, Aveiro, Portugal; [Macedo, Anthony] Univ Aveiro, Dept Econ Management Ind Engn & Tourism DEGEIT, Aveiro, Portugal								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000897813600001	67	Article; Article		
J	Alrayani, Hasan; Herrington, Lee; Liu, Anmin; Jones, Richard								Frontal plane projection angle predicts patellofemoral pain: Prospective study in male military cadets								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				73	79		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.12.004			JAN 2023	2023	Background: Patellofemoral pain (PFP) is a major source of knee pain. Identifying who may develop PFP is of paramount importance.Purpose: To assess whether Frontal plane projection angles (FPPA) and hand held dynamometry (HHD) strength measures can predict development of PFP.Study design: Prospective evaluation of individuals undertaking a military training programme.Methods: Male military recruits were enrolled and prospectively followed up from enrolment to completion of 12-weeks training. Lower limb kinematics (FPPA, Q-angle, hip adduction angle, knee flexion, ankle dorsiflexion, and rearfoot eversion angle) measured during running, single leg squatting (SLS), and single leg landing (SLL) and isometric muscle strength of hip abductors and knee extensors.Results: Body mass, hip abductor muscle strength, Q-angle during SLS and SLL, FPPA during SLL all significantly different between the PFP and non-injured groups and predicted PFP, highest predictor variable was FPPA during SLL (Odds Ratio = 1.13, P = 0.01). A FPPA >= 5.2 degrees during SLL predicting PFP with a sensitivity of 70% and a specificity of 70%.Conclusion: Participants who developed PFP had a number of physical factors significantly different than the non-injured group, most predictive was a larger FPPA during SLL, with angles greater than 5.2 degrees associated with a 2.2x greater risk. Clinical relevance: Assessing FPPA during SLL could be used to determine who was predisposed to PFP.(c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Alrayani, Hasan] Minist Def, Saudi Arabian Army, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; [Herrington, Lee; Liu, Anmin; Jones, Richard] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Human Movement & Rehabil Res Grp, Salford, England; [Herrington, Lee] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Human Movement & Rehabil Res Grp, Frederick Rd, Salford M6 6PU, England; [Herrington, Lee] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Human Movement & Rehabil Res Grp, Frederick Rd, Salford M6 6PU, England								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000911722300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Fujimoto, Masaki								A Dynamic Analysis of Equal Revenue Sharing and Endogenous Salary Caps in the N-Team Leagues								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	5			624	638		10.1177/15270025221143983			JUN 2023	2023	This article studies the combined effect of equal revenue sharing and endogenous salary caps in a dynamical setting. It is shown that (i) a combination of equal revenue sharing and salary caps cannot eliminate competitive imbalance in the league; (ii) the share of player salaries has no impact on the distribution of talent among teams; (iii) under equal revenue sharing, the introduction of salary restrictions is not meant to prevent player salaries from rising, but to prevent them from falling; and (iv) under equal revenue sharing and salary caps, the reverse-order draft is incompatible with talent investment incentives of teams.		[Fujimoto, Masaki] Kindai Univ, Fac Econ, 3-4-1 Kowakae, Higashiosaka 5778502, Japan; [Fujimoto, Masaki] Kindai Univ, Fac Econ, 3-4-1 Kowakae, Higashiosaka 5778502, Japan								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000896761600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Geldenhuys, A. Grethe; Burgess, Theresa; Roche, Stephen; Hendricks, Sharief								Return to rugby following musculoskeletal injuries: A survey of views, practices and barriers among health and sport practitioners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				49	59		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.11.009			JAN 2023	2023	Study design and setting: Returning rugby players to the sport following musculoskeletal injuries is a multi-factorial and challenging process. A cross-sectional observational study was conducted among health and sport practitioners involved with injured rugby players in South Africa.Objectives and outcome measures: The views, current practices and barriers encountered by health and sport practitioners during return to rugby were investigated using a self-developed online survey.Results: 64 practitioners participated in the survey including physiotherapists, orthopaedic surgeons, biokineticists and sports physicians. Return to sport (RTS) protocols were considered important, how-ever, participants also indicated that they were slightly more likely to use anecdotal protocols compared to published protocols. Time frames, stages of healing, pain and subjective ratings along with functional outcome measures (such as range of motion, muscle function and proprioception) and sport-specific skills were rated as important and commonly utilised in different RTS phases (i.e., return to non -contact, return to contact and return to matches). The most commonly perceived barriers encountered were related to lack of access and time-constraints. Conclusion: Return to rugby guidelines with consideration of a broad range of criteria and common barriers encountered should be developed to facilitate safe, practical and time-efficient return to rugby following musculoskeletal injuries.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Geldenhuys, A. Grethe; Burgess, Theresa] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Div Physiotherapy, Cape Town, South Africa; [Burgess, Theresa] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Med Ethics & Law, Cape Town, South Africa; [Roche, Stephen] Univ Cape Town, Groote Schuur Hosp, Fac Hlth Sci, Orthopaed Res Unit,Dept Orthopaed Surg, Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Physiol Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Lifestyle & Sport HPALS Res Ctr, Hlth Phys Act, Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds, England; [Geldenhuys, A. Grethe] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Div Physiotherapy, Cape Town, South Africa								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000974564000001	69	Article; Article		
J	Raya-Castellano, Pablo E.; Reeves, Matthew J.; Cardenas-Velez, David; Fradua, Luis; McRobert, Allistair P.								The half-time talk: A mixed-method examination of youth-elite football coaches' behaviours and team-management strategies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			655	667		10.1177/17479541221141049			JUN 2023	2023	Football, unlike some other team sports, includes limited game interruptions for coaches to easily communicate with players and affect their performance. However, a reduced number of studies have explored how coaches attempt to influence players during half-time. This study examined football coaches' behaviours during half-time and their perceptions underpinning their talks' delivery. Five Spanish coaches (M-age = 32.2, SD = 8.8) working for a La Liga academy were systematically observed during half-time talks (n = 20) and participated in a semi-structured interview each. Half-time talks were coded using a modified version of the Coach Analysis and Intervention System, and semi-structured interviews were analysed following thematic analysis procedures. Instruction and feedback were the most employed behaviours for four coaches, with younger age-group coaches employing greater divergent questioning and in-talk player participation. Furthermore, data suggested that coaches conferred with their staff, before entering the changing room and rapidly progressed from divergent to convergent questions and feedback and instruction. The team's 'level of play' was the most perceived relevant factor affecting the verbal and vocal strategies of coaches' messages, albeit the score gained importance for coaches of older age-groups. This study is pioneering, examining how coaches attempt to influence their players during half-time talks of competitive youth football.		[Raya-Castellano, Pablo E.; Cardenas-Velez, David; Fradua, Luis] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Granada, Spain; [Reeves, Matthew J.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Lancashire Res Ctr Sport Phys Act & Performance, Preston, Lancs, England; [McRobert, Allistair P.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Raya-Castellano, Pablo E.] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Carretera Alfacar 21, Granada 18071, Spain								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000895477100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Laske, Hanna; Konjer, Mara; Meier, Henk Erik								Menstruation and training - A quantitative study of (non-)communication about the menstrual cycle in German sports clubs								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			129	140		10.1177/17479541221143061			FEB 2024	2024	The menstrual cycle is one of the most fundamental differences between men and women and is capable of influencing the performance, well-being and health of female athletes. Despite increasing research, the influence of the menstrual cycle on athletic performance is still largely a mystery and highly individual. This in turn increases the importance of effective communication between coaches and female athletes. The purpose of this study is to analyse the existing communication behaviour of coaches as perceived by female athletes, as well as their willingness to communicate about the menstrual cycle. Therefore, we developed an online questionnaire addressed to female sports club athletes (n = 1195). Questions about the coach's thematisation of the menstrual cycle and the female athlete's willingness to communicate served as dependent variables. Ordinary least squares regressions were conducted for both dependent constructs. We found that communication behaviour depends on coaches' age, type of sport and training frequency. Communication willingness depends on the gender of the coach, athletes' age, type of sport, training frequency and perception of cycle-related performance fluctuations. Overall, the results of our study also show a large gap between desire and reality-even in 2022 coaches rarely talk about the menstrual cycle, although a large proportion of female athletes would be willing to do so. Both coaches and athletes should be empowered to communicate more openly about menstrual cycle. Improving communication skills on both sides may also improve the coach-athlete relationship.		[Laske, Hanna; Konjer, Mara; Meier, Henk Erik] Univ Munster, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Horstmarer Landweg 62b, F-48149 Munster, France; [Konjer, Mara] Univ Munster, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Horstmarer Landweg 62b, F-48149 Munster, France								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000895471200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Arede, Jorge; Ferreira, Antonio Paulo; Esteves, Pedro; Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver; Leite, Nuno								Preparing for the youth basketball European Championship: Perceptual response and acute effects of an injury prevention program								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			306	314		10.1177/17479541221142511			FEB 2024	2024	The aims of this study were to determine the feasibility of the injury prevention program (IPP), to examine the reliability of perceptual response to an IPP and to analyze the acute effects of both external and internal demands of in-court training sessions in the IPP. Twelve young basketball players participated in a national team (NT) training camp (120 total individual samples). While players only completed five exclusive in-court training sessions, the IPP was always performed before such in-court practices in the rest of the sessions. The rating of perceived exertion (RPE) was determined at the completion of each IPP. Training load (TL) measures during in-court practices were collected using indoor tracking system, and individual heart rate monitors. Independent t-tests and analysis of variance were used to compare between-sessions TL measures and to test the main effect of RPE in TL. The mean RPE of all IPP sessions was 14.7 +/- 0.86. Moreover, there was moderate reliability (ICC = 0.69) between IPP sessions for the RPE and an acceptable coefficient of variation (CV = 4.45%). Furthermore, after IPP, subjects significantly covered more distance per minute (total, <= 6 km/h and 6.1-12 km/h) and performed a higher number of body impacts per minute (total, very light and moderate do heavy). Also, the main effect of RPE during IPP sessions was significantly observed in distance covered per minute (total and 12.1-18 km/h) during in-court training sessions. This IPP could serve as a feasible and reliable strategy to implement during NT preparation.		[Arede, Jorge; Leite, Nuno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Vila Real, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Polytech Inst Viseu, Sch Educ, Viseu, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Higher Inst Educ Sci Douro, Dept Sports, Penafiel, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Europea Madrid, Sch Sports Sci, Campus Villaviciosa De Odon, Villaviciosa De Odon, Spain; [Arede, Jorge; Esteves, Pedro; Leite, Nuno] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Ferreira, Antonio Paulo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, CIPER, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal; [Esteves, Pedro] Polytech Inst Guarda, Sch Educ Commun & Sport, Guarda, Portugal; [Gonzalo-Skok, Oliver] Loyola Univ, Dept Commun & Educ, Seville, Spain; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Apartado 202, P-5001911 Vila Real, Portugal; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Apartado 202, P-5001911 Vila Real, Portugal								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000895462800001	39	Article; Article		
J	Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel A.; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas; Gonzalez-Ponce, Inmaculada; Diaz-Garcia, Jesus; Leo, Francisco M.								Cohesion and collective efficacy as antecedents and team performance as an outcome of team resilience in team sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2239	2250		10.1177/17479541221129198			DEC 2023	2023	This research project, composed of two studies, aimed to analyse various antecedents and outcomes of team resilience. Study 1, which involved 394 sports team players (M-age = 20.41, SD = 5.23), cross-sectionally examined the relationship between group cohesion and collective efficacy with team resilience, and the mediating effect of collective efficacy on the cohesion-team resilience relationship, using players' perceptions assessed through questionnaires. Study 2, which involved 434 players (M-age = 21.53, SD = 5.57) from collective sports, aimed to longitudinally corroborate the relationship between cohesion (Time 1) and collective efficacy (Time 1) with team resilience (Time 2), and to examine perceived team performance (Time 2) as a consequence of team resilience, again evaluated through questionnaires. Results showed that task cohesion, social cohesion and collective efficacy in Studies 1 and 2 were positively related to resilience characteristics. Also, task cohesion was negatively related to vulnerability under pressure in both studies. Collective efficacy was also shown to be an antecedent of vulnerability under pressure in Study 1 and a mediator of the relationship between task cohesion and resilience characteristics in both studies. Lastly, team resilience was a predictor of perceived team performance at the end of the season in Study 2. Thus, the findings provide new empirical evidence of the antecedents and outcomes of team resilience in the field of sports psychology. Coaches and practitioners should develop group cohesion and collective efficacy in training sessions and matches during the season to achieve more resilient and less vulnerable teams.		[Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel A.; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas; Diaz-Garcia, Jesus; Leo, Francisco M.] Univ Extremadura, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Caceres, Spain; [Gonzalez-Ponce, Inmaculada] Univ Extremadura, Dept Psychol & Antropol, Badajoz, Spain; [Leo, Francisco M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Teacher Training, C Ave La Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Gonzalez-Ponce, Inmaculada] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ & Psychol, C Ave Elvas S-N, Badajoz 06006, Spain								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000894014800001	49	Article; Article		
J	Rodrigues, Rodrigo; Gonsalves, Vagner; Casagrande, Rafael; Cemin, Fabricio; Nodari, Camila; Borges, Iury; Fitarelli, Luan; Bianchesse, Jean; da Rocha, Emmanuel Souza; Rabello, Rodrigo								Are proximal and distal neuromuscular parameters able to predict hip and knee frontal plane kinematics during single-leg landing?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				30	36		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.11.007			JAN 2023	2023	Objective: To determine if proximal and distal neuromuscular parameters (EMG amplitude and median frequency -MDF) can predict frontal plane kinematics during single-leg landing. Study design: Cross sectional study.Setting: Laboratory.Participants: Fifteen participants (7 female) performed six single-leg landings with measures of frontal plane kinematics and EMG obtained 230 ms after first foot contact, totalizing 90 landings.Main outcome measures: (i) 2D hip adduction [hip ADD] and knee frontal plane projection angle [knee FPPA]; (ii) EMG amplitude and MDF of gluteus medius [GMed], tensor fascia latae [TFL], peroneus longus [PL] and tibialis anterior [TA].Results: We observed that MDF of TA was a significant predictor of hip ADD (p = 0.037; f3 =-0.049 Hz; R2c = 0.30). Also, MDF of PL was significant predictor of knee FPPA (p = 0.043; f3 = 0.042 Hz; R2c = 0.37). Hip muscles and EMG amplitude parameters were not considered predictors of frontal plane kinematics.Conclusion: The firing frequency of ankle muscles predicted the variance of hip and knee frontal plane kinematics during single-leg landing.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rodrigues, Rodrigo] Fed Univ Rio Grande, Inst Educ, Rio Grande, RS, Brazil; [Gonsalves, Vagner; Casagrande, Rafael; Cemin, Fabricio; Nodari, Camila; Borges, Iury; Fitarelli, Luan; Bianchesse, Jean] Serra Gaucha Univ Ctr, Exercise Physiol & Phys Assessment Lab, Caxias Do Sul, RS, Brazil; [da Rocha, Emmanuel Souza] Integrated Coll Taquara, Dept Phys Therapy, Taquara, RS, Brazil; [da Rocha, Emmanuel Souza] Sogipa Fac, Dept Phys Therapy, Phys Act, Sport & Hlth Res Grp, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Rabello, Rodrigo] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, MI, Italy; [Rodrigues, Rodrigo] Fed Univ Rio Grande, Inst Educ, Italia Ave,Km 8,Campus Carreiros, BR-96203900 Rio Grande, RS, Brazil; [Rodrigues, Rodrigo] Fed Univ Rio Grande, Inst Educ, Italia Ave,Km 8,Campus Carreiros, BR-96203900 Rio Grande, RS, Brazil								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000972823600001	51	Article; Article		
J	Craig, Thomas P.; Swinton, Paul; Barrett, Steve; Maughan, Patrick								Locomotor activities and subjective load differences between professional youth soccer players and professional development loans: A comparative analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			214	220		10.1177/17479541221141145			FEB 2024	2024	This study quantified and compared the weekly locomotor activity and subjective load between elite and development loan youth soccer players registered to a primary club. Development loan players were loaned to a lower-league club and trained part-time with their loan club whilst being available for development fixtures and training with the primary club. Data were collected in 16 squad players and 4 development loan players at loan clubs across a 41 week competitive phase of the 2018/2019 season. Analysis was completed on total distance (m), PlayerLoad (TM) (au), low intensity running (<14.4 km.h(-1), m), running (19.8-24.98 km.h(-1), m), sprinting (>24.98 km.h(-1), m), accelerations (>2 m.s(-2) count) and decelerations (<-2 m.s(-2), count). Point estimates for the development loan players consistently showed lower weekly values than squad players for all variables ranging from 5.2% (weekly sRPE) to 16.8% (weekly sprint distance covered). Differences, however, were not found to be statistically significant (p >= 0.07). Variance ranged from 23.6% (weekly distance) to 37.7% (weekly high-intensity accelerations). Although the goals of a development loan are likely to be multifactorial, this is the first study to quantify and compare locomotor activities and subjective loading of players within the development loan environment.		[Craig, Thomas P.; Swinton, Paul; Maughan, Patrick] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Barrett, Steve] Playermaker, London, England; [Maughan, Patrick] Univ Glasgow, Sch Life Sci, Glasgow, Scotland; [Craig, Thomas P.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Aberdeen, Scotland								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000893696100001	32	Article; Article		
J	Mourao, Paulo								Exploring determinants of international transfers of women soccer players in Portuguese football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			152	161		10.1177/17479541221142928			FEB 2024	2024	In this pioneering work, we reflect on transfers in women's football. For this purpose, we collected all transfers from the two seasons with the most records in Portugal (the 2019/2020 and 2020/2021 seasons). The four dimensions associated with individual and prestige characteristics conducive to changing clubs, as well as 14 variables, were tested. For treating the problem of the endogeneity of some variables, we used a probit model with instrumental variables. The results obtained showed that high values of "goals per match" increase the probability of a player having an international transfer. Other determinants, such as the position of the transferring club or the player's field position, are also discussed in detail.		[Mourao, Paulo] Univ Minho, Econ Dept, Braga, Portugal; [Mourao, Paulo] Univ Minho, Econ Dept, P-4704553 Braga, Portugal; [Mourao, Paulo] Univ Minho, Econ Dept, P-4704553 Braga, Portugal								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000893697100001	31	Article; Article		
J	Pussella, Pranath; Silva, Rajitha M.; Egodawatta, Chaminda								In-game winner prediction and winning strategy generation in cricket: A machine learning approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2216	2229		10.1177/17479541221119738			DEC 2023	2023	This study provides an in-game prediction of the winner for Twenty20 (T20) cricket by focusing on the matches played in the Indian Premier League. For the analysis, data were collected from 812 completed matches played between 2008 and 2020. Initially, several candidate features were identified, and then the LASSO method was applied as a feature selection technique to identify the most important set of features. Based on the identified important features, predictions are provided for each stage of a match where a T20 match can consist of a maximum of 240 stages. For each stage, three classification models were formed using Naive Bayes, Logistic Regression and Support Vector Machines. The prediction accuracy was used for evaluating the findings of the study, and the prediction accuracy of each model indicates the ratio between the number of correctly predicted instances and the total number of predicted instances. Naive Bayes demonstrated prediction accuracies ranging from 53.08% to 91.76% between the first and the 240th stage of matches, whereas the accuracy of Logistic Regression varied from 56.92% to 97.65%. In comparison, Support Vector Machines also displayed comparable outcomes with a prediction accuracy of 55.00% at the first stage, and 90.59% at the 240th stage. Furthermore, a strategy generator that assists the competing teams in the second innings to devise winning strategies, is presented in this study alongside an interactive web-based application for making in-game predictions, and for assisting the end users (players and coaching/managing staff) in decision making, based on the generated winning strategies.		[Pussella, Pranath] Rajarata Univ Sri Lanka, Dept Phys Sci, Mihintale, Sri Lanka; [Silva, Rajitha M.] Univ Sri Jayewardenepura, Dept Stat, Nugegoda 10250, Sri Lanka; [Egodawatta, Chaminda] Rajarata Univ Sri Lanka, Dept Plant Sci, Anuradhapura, Sri Lanka; [Silva, Rajitha M.] Univ Sri Jayewardenepura, Dept Stat, Nugegoda 10250, Sri Lanka								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000893941900001	24	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Wenche								Returning for skill or popularity? The demand for esports match replay								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	2			295	310		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2022-0146			APR 3 2023	2023	PurposeAmong scholarly analyses of sport demand, few have considered the demand for match replays despite replays' indispensable role in sport broadcasts. Different from live matches, viewers of match replays generally have access to match outcomes. Outcome uncertainty is thus less relevant in attracting viewers. This paper addresses this research gap by analyzing the demand for replays of competitive esports matches.Design/methodology/approachWe collected match replay data for two competitive esports leagues, CrossFire Pro League and King Pro League, from two Chinese esports online platforms, Douyu.com and Huya.com. Drawing on two economic theories of superstar effects-a skilled-based theory and a popularity-based theory, we performed regression analyses and dominance analyses to examine the demand for esports match replays.FindingsOur results indicated skill to be more important in the demand for tactical games while non-skill-popularity is more instrumental in attracting viewers to replays of leisurely games. The platform with knowledge-sharing features also exhibited a stronger skill impact for tactical games.Originality/valueFindings contribute to the understanding of sport match replays and offer implications for esports organizers and broadcasters to market games effectively.		[Wang, Wenche] Univ Michigan, Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Wang, Wenche] Univ Michigan, Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000892567200001	70	Article; Article		
J	Kipp, Kristof; Warmenhoven, John								Applications of regularized regression models in sports biomechanics research								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	3			723	741		10.1080/14763141.2022.2151932			MAR 4 2025	2025	Research in sports biomechanics often relies on the use of ordinary least squares (OLS) regression. However, since sports biomechanics research is often characterised by high-dimensional data sets with many predictor variables and few observations, use of OLS regression can sometimes be problematic from a statistical perspective. Statistical learning methods may provide alternate ways to deal with high-dimensional data sets and partially address these problems. For example, regularisation adds penalties to the cost function of OLS regression models, which shrinks large regression coefficients and decreases the model's sensitivity to noise in the data. Regularised regression models also protect against overfitting, improve generalisability, and can be used for variable selection. A short review of biomechanics research studies illustrates how these models provided ways to reduce the number of variables within a model and select only the primary predictors of performance, which helped with the interpretation of results and identified distinct combinations of key predictors of performance. In addition, we illustrate how these models are applied to two sports biomechanics datasets. Given the advantages, sports biomechanists may want to consider the use of regularised regression models in their research design and statistical analyses. Careful consideration should be given, however, to the construction, validation, and interpretation of these models considering their underpinning assumptions and limitations.		[Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Warmenhoven, John] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise RISE, Canberra, Australia; [Warmenhoven, John] Univ Canberra, Res & Innovat, Canberra, Australia; [Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000910638900001	42	Article; Article		
J	Dalton, Benjamin; McDougle, Jacob; Alesi, Michaela; Pereira, Daniel; Feito, Yuri								Blood Flow Restriction Training for Individuals With Osteoarthritis								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	6			58	63		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000719			DEC 2022	2022	Research suggests that healthy eating and exercise decrease the likelihood of developing osteoarthritis (OA) with age. Despite this, OA is a prevalent chronic condition that typically causes joint pain at rest and during exercise, making it difficult to develop effective training programs. Recently, blood flow restriction (BFR) training has shown to be a beneficial alternative to traditional resistance training to improve muscle function. In this article, we provide a rationale as to how BFR may be a beneficial resistance training alternative that would allow individuals with osteoarthritis to experience similar improvements in muscle function compared with traditional resistance training using lower relative intensities.		[Dalton, Benjamin; McDougle, Jacob; Alesi, Michaela; Feito, Yuri] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA; [Dalton, Benjamin] Univ Guelph, Dept Human Hlth & Nutr Sci HHNS, Guelph, ON, Canada; [McDougle, Jacob] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Alesi, Michaela] State Univ, Virginia Polytech Inst, Dept Human Nutr Foods & Exercise, Exercise, Blacksburg, VA USA; [Pereira, Daniel] A&D Fitness & Performance, Valencia, Spain; [Feito, Yuri] Amer Coll Sports Med, Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA; [Feito, Yuri] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA; [Feito, Yuri] Amer Coll Sports Med, Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000915255100007	41	Article; Article		
J	Rothschild, Carey E.								Exercise Considerations for the Masters Female Athlete								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	6			73	81		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000743			DEC 2022	2022	Female participation in sport as a masters athlete has grown considerably in recent years. Functional losses and physiological changes in the cardiovascular, musculoskeletal, and endocrine systems that occur with female aging require recognition and thoughtful exercise prescription. In working with this population, the strength and conditioning professional should be able to recognize the biology of aging, factors affecting recovery and performance, and application of appropriate training parameters to keep the female athlete in their sport while mitigating the effects of aging and maximizing performance. This special populations article outlines key age-related changes in the female athlete and presents comprehensive, practical training guidelines for this growing population.		[Rothschild, Carey E.] Univ Cent Florida, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Rothschild, Carey E.] Univ Cent Florida, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000915255100009	48	Article; Article		
J	Masaracchio, Michael; Kirker, Kaitlin								Resistance Training in Individuals With Hip and Knee Osteoarthritis: A Clinical Commentary With Practical Applications								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	6			36	46		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000711			DEC 2022	2022	Osteoarthritis (OA) has been identified as 1 of the 4 most prevalent chronic musculoskeletal conditions, with both prevalence and health care spending rising as the population continues to age. The current US health care system incorporates a model that is driven by individualized one-on-one treatment, which has been successful in the management of certain medical diseases; however, chronic musculoskeletal diseases, such as OA, may be better managed from a population health perspective for more cost-efficient and effective utilization of resources. Although the benefits of resistance training are indisputable, a wide variety of factors (social determinants of health, access to quality care, contextual factors, and comorbidities) may hinder the successful implementation of resistance training programs in older individuals with OA. Considering the complexity and flaws of the health care system, health care professionals involved in movement and exercise should consider innovative models of care that incorporate population health, psychosocial factors, and social determinants of health, in conjunction with individualized treatment of disease, injuries, and pathologies to enhance independence and quality of life in individuals with OA. Therefore, this commentary will discuss innovative strategies to overcome the inherent challenges associated with the implementation of resistance training programs for individuals with hip and knee OA.		[Masaracchio, Michael; Kirker, Kaitlin] Long Isl Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Brooklyn, NY 11201 USA; [Masaracchio, Michael] Long Isl Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Brooklyn, NY 11201 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000915255100005	81	Article; Article		
J	Suchomel, Timothy J.; McKeever, Shana M.; Nolen, Justin D.; Comfort, Paul								Muscle Architectural and Force-Velocity Curve Adaptations following 10 Weeks of Training with Weightlifting Catching and Pulling Derivatives								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			504	516		10.52082/jssm.2022.504			DEC 2022	2022	The aims of this study were to examine the muscle architectural, rapid force production, and force-velocity curve adaptations fol-lowing 10 weeks of resistance training with either submaximal weightlifting catching (CATCH) or pulling (PULL) derivatives or pulling derivatives with phase-specific loading (OL). 27 re-sistance-trained men were randomly assigned to the CATCH, PULL, or OL groups and completed pre-and post-intervention ultrasound, countermovement jump (CMJ), and isometric mid -thigh pull (IMTP). Vastus lateralis and biceps femoris muscle thickness, pennation angle, and fascicle length, CMJ force at peak power, velocity at peak power, and peak power, and IMTP peak force and force at 100-, 150-, 200-, and 250 ms were assessed. There were no significant or meaningful differences in muscle ar-chitecture measures for any group (p > 0.05). The PULL group displayed small-moderate (g = 0.25 -0.81) improvements in all CMJ variables while the CATCH group displayed trivial effects (g = 0.00 -0.21). In addition, the OL group displayed trivial and small effects for CMJ force (g =-0.12 -0.04) and velocity varia-bles (g = 0.32 -0.46), respectively. The OL group displayed mod-erate (g = 0.48 -0.73) improvements in all IMTP variables while to PULL group displayed small-moderate (g = 0.47 -0.55) im-provements. The CATCH group displayed trivial-small (g =-0.39 -0.15) decreases in IMTP performance. The PULL and OL groups displayed visible shifts in their force-velocity curves; however, these changes were not significant (p > 0.05). Perform-ing weightlifting pulling derivatives with either submaximal or phase-specific loading may enhance rapid and peak force produc-tion characteristics. Strength and conditioning practitioners should load pulling derivatives based on the goals of each specific phase, but also allow their athletes ample exposure to achieve each goal.		[Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA; [McKeever, Shana M.] Divine Savior Holy Angels High Sch, Milwaukee, WI USA; [Nolen, Justin D.] Illinois Bone & Joint Inst, Hlth Performance Inst, Highland Pk, IL USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.; Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Comfort, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000911718500003	77	Article; Article		
J	Willoughby, Darryn S.; Cardaci, Thomas D.; Machek, Steven B.; Wilburn, Dylan T.; Heileson, Jeffery L.								Resistance Exercise-Induced Increases in Muscle Myostatin mRNA and Protein Expression Are Subsequently Decreased in Circulation in the Presence of Increased Levels of the Extracellular Matrix Stabilizing Protein Decorin								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			616	624		10.52082/jssm.2022.616			DEC 2022	2022	Resistance exercise (RE) activates cell signaling pathways associated with myostatin. Decorin is located in the extracellular matrix (ECM) and can block the inhibitory effect of myostatin. This study sought to determine the impact of low-load (LL) and high load (HL) RE on myostatin mRNA and protein expression along with changes in muscle decorin and circulating follistatin. Ten resistance-trained men performed a LL (50% 1RM) and HL (80% 1RM) RE session using the angled leg press and leg extension with load and volume equated. Venous blood samples and muscle biopsies were obtained prior to and at 3h and 24h following each RE session. Muscle myostatin mRNA expression was increased at 24h post-exercise (p = 0.032) in LL and at 3h (p = 0.044) and 24h (p = 0.003) post-exercise in HL. Muscle decorin was increased at 24h post-exercise (p < 0.001) in LL and HL; however, muscle myostatin was increased at 24h post-exercise (p < 0.001) only in HL. For muscle Smad 2/3, no significant differences were observed (p > 0.05). Serum follistatin was increased and myostatin decreased at 24h post-exercise (p < 0.001) in LL and HL. Muscle myostatin gene and protein expression increased in response to HL RE. However, serum myostatin was decreased in the presence of increases in decorin in muscle and follistatin in circulation. Therefore, our data suggest a possible mechanism may exist where decorin within the ECM is able to bind to, and decrease, myostatin that might otherwise enter the circulation for activin IIB (ACTIIB) receptor binding and subsequent canonical signaling through Smad 2/3.		[Willoughby, Darryn S.] Univ Mary Hardin Baylor, Sch Exercise & Sport Sci, Belton, TX 76513 USA; [Willoughby, Darryn S.; Wilburn, Dylan T.] Baylor Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Waco, TX 76706 USA; [Cardaci, Thomas D.] Univ South Carolina, Dept Pathol Microbiol & Immunol, Sch Med, Columbia, SC USA; [Machek, Steven B.] Calif State Univ Monterey Bay, Dept Kinesiol, Seaside, CA USA; [Heileson, Jeffery L.] Walter Reed Natl Mil Med Ctr, Nutr Serv Div, Bethesda, MD USA; [Willoughby, Darryn S.] Univ Mary Hardin Baylor, Sch Exercise & Sport Sci, Belton, TX 76513 USA; [Willoughby, Darryn S.] Baylor Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Waco, TX 76706 USA								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000891308600001	48	Article; Article		
J	Lima, Ricardo; Gracinda, Ana; Silva, Bruno; Silva, Ana Filipa; Pereira, Joel; Silva, Rui Miguel; Clemente, Filipe Manuel								Week-to-week variations of internal and external intensity measures in professional women volleyball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			294	300		10.1177/17479541221134202			FEB 2024	2024	The aim of the present study was twofold: (i) to analyze the relationship between weekly variations in ACWR, training monotony (TM), training strain (TS), s-RPE and the number of jumps; and (ii) to explore the association between tests based on the external and internal training intensity (TI) measures across weeks. An observational cohort study was conducted. Ten female elite volleyball players (two setters, three middle-blockers, three outside hitters, and two opposites) of a first Division Portuguese team (24.1 +/- 6.12 years old; 66.48 +/- 6.85 kg; and 175.4 +/- 6.52 cm) participated in this study. Players were monitored for external and internal TI measures. The correlation coefficients between internal and external TI measures were determined using Pearson's r. The results showed a moderate relationship between weekly variations of ACWR, TM, TS, s-RPE, and the number of jumps. Additionally, a moderate association between external and internal TI measures were detected. In conclusion, s-RPE seems to be a more sensible measure than the number of jumps, since its percentage of variation was higher.		[Lima, Ricardo; Silva, Bruno; Silva, Ana Filipa; Pereira, Joel; Silva, Rui Miguel; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Lima, Ricardo; Silva, Bruno; Silva, Ana Filipa; Pereira, Joel; Silva, Rui Miguel; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Res Ctr Sports Performance Recreat Innovat & Tech, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Gracinda, Ana] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Delegacao Covilha, Inst Telecomunicacoes, Lisbon, Portugal; [Lima, Ricardo] Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001156393500026	37	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Rodenas, Joaquin; Lopez, Adrian Martinez; Gay, Roberto Perez								Effects of contextual and tactical dimensions on the creation of goal-scoring opportunities in U12 and U13 elite Spanish soccer teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			202	213		10.1177/17479541221141816			FEB 2024	2024	The aim of this paper was to describe the interactive effects of contextual and tactical dimensions on the creation of goal-scoring opportunities (GSO) in youth elite Spanish soccer, according to the type of possession. A total of 1730 team possessions from 24 qualifying matches of the official Spanish LaLiga Promises U12 and U13 soccer-7 tournaments were analyzed. For the analysis, team possessions were grouped into recoveries and restarts, according to the type of possession start. The study evaluated ten contextual and tactical dimensions by observational methodology. For recoveries, the multilevel binary regression models revealed significant effects of dimensions such as match status, initial field zone, initial penetration, type of attack, number of dribbles and number of passes on the creation of GSO. However, for restarts, only dimensions such as initial penetration, number of dribbles and possession width presented significant effects on the creation of GSO. In conclusion, the effects of different contextual and tactical dimensions in youth soccer teams seem to depend on whether the start of the team possession is a transition or a restart, regardless of the age category. These findings are useful for soccer coaches and analysts, which can help them understand the key dimensions in the design of training sessions in youth soccer teams.		[Gonzalez-Rodenas, Joaquin; Lopez, Adrian Martinez; Gay, Roberto Perez] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Madrid 28942, Spain; [Gonzalez-Rodenas, Joaquin] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Madrid 28942, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001156393500018	48	Article; Article		
J	Dobbin, Nick; Atherton, Anthony; Hill, Colin								The subjective task load responses and movement characteristics associated with purposefully designed games in junior Touch players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			257	267		10.1177/17479541221141694			FEB 2024	2024	This study sought to design five touch-specific modified games and evaluate the subjective task load responses and movement characteristics. Forty-two high-performance junior Touch players completed five modified games during a single training session. Each game was designed to increase the physical, technical, mental, frustration or temporal load. Subjective task loads were measured after each game using the NASA task load index (NASA-TLX) questionnaire. Movement characteristics were recorded using global positioning systems. Data were analysed using a one-way repeated measures analysis of variance, and the association between movement characteristics and subjective task loads were assessed using linear mixed modelling. Clear between-game differences were observed in physical, technical, mental, frustration, temporal and technical load, indicating that the load for which the game was designed to increase (e.g. physical load = physical game) was higher than all other games (eta(2)(p) = 0.118-0.211, all P < 0.001). No differences were observed across games for effort, performance, mean or total load (eta(2)(p) = 0.004-0.030, P = 0.178-0.947). Small to large differences in the movement characteristics were observed across the five games (eta(2)(p) = 0.057-0.577, P < 0.001-0.017). The most prominent movement characteristic associated with the NASA-TLX responses was relative distance; it was positively associated with physical and temporal load (r = 0.16-0.24, both P < 0.05) and negatively associated with technical, mental and effort load (r = -0.29 to -0.06, P < 0.001-0.353). Overall, coaches and sport scientists can design games for Touch players that increase loads through the rules, intention of the game, and by altering relative distance.		[Dobbin, Nick] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Fac Hlth & Educ, Dept Hlth Profess, Off 4-32 Brooks Bldg, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Atherton, Anthony] Rugby Football League, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Hill, Colin] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Fac Sci & Engn, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Hill, Colin] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Inst Sport, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Dobbin, Nick] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Fac Hlth & Educ, Dept Hlth Profess, Off 4-32 Brooks Bldg, Manchester, Lancs, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001156393500023	41	Article; Article		
J	McQuilliam, Stephen J.; Clark, David R.; Erskine, Robert M.; Brownlee, Thomas E.								Global differences in current strength and conditioning practice within soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			182	191		10.1177/17479541221136048			FEB 2024	2024	Differences exist between top-tier soccer leagues (e.g. anthropometry and match demands), which may influence strength and conditioning (S&C) practice. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate whether current S&C practice in men's and women's (first team and academy) squads differed between global regions. A total of 170 participants, involved in the delivery of S&C support at their soccer club (based on South America (SA), the USA, the UK, or other European countries (EUR)), completed a survey examining their S&C methods. The survey comprised six sections: (i) academic qualifications and S&C coaching experience; and their preferred methods for (ii) physical testing; (iii) strength and power development; (iv) plyometric training; (v) speed development; and (vi) periodization. Coaches in EUR conducted fewer formal S&C sessions, placed less importance on free-weight resistance training (RT), and performed less speed and plyometric training compared to coaches in other global regions (all p < 0.05). While coaches working with UK squads devoted more time to physical development than those in EUR, they regarded bodyweight training as the most important RT modality in comparison to USA and SA, who prioritized free-weight RT. Finally, SA academy players are introduced to formal S&C later (similar to 14 years old) than those in the UK (similar to 12 years old, p = 0.002). However, it is reasonable to suggest that the S&C practice of coaches in the USA and SA align better with scientific guidelines for strength and power development in soccer, with emphasis on free-weight RT alongside regular sprint and plyometric training, compared to coaches in the UK and EUR.		[McQuilliam, Stephen J.; Clark, David R.; Erskine, Robert M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Erskine, Robert M.] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Brownlee, Thomas E.] Univ Birmingham, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [McQuilliam, Stephen J.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:001156393500016	34	Article; Article		
J	Langdown, Ben L.; Ehlert, Alex								An investigation into the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic upon golfers' strength and conditioning and golf practice								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1615	1628		10.1177/17479541221140016			OCT 2023	2023	As the spread of the novel coronavirus disease 2019 increased, governments across the world introduced various restrictions to reduce infections. Stay-at-home orders and lockdowns of golf courses (for 5.08 +/- 2.79 months) and strength and conditioning facilities (for 6.78 +/- 3.80 months) meant that golfers had to quickly adapt their practice and training. This mixed-methods study surveyed amateur and professional golfers (n = 107), to examine the applied impact of the pandemic on their strength and conditioning, golf practice, tournament engagement, levels of stress and motivation and the impact upon diet and sleep. Results indicate reduced practice frequency and duration across various aspects of golf, as well as reduced tournament engagement. The most commonly cited limiting factors for tournament engagement were a lack of practice time (28.8%) and travel restrictions (52.5%). In general, golfers were motivated to train, with session frequency remaining consistent with pre-pandemic levels. However, golfers suffered from significantly higher levels of stress (p<.001), disturbed sleep (p= .015) and perceptions of less physical gains compared to previous years. While online support has been accessed by 53.8% of golfers, the cited lack of facilities/equipment by 71.9% raises concerns over detraining and injury risks on return to sport. Coaches are urged to monitor athlete self-report measures to manage and optimise interventions, especially in similar situations where maintaining progressive overload is challenging. Strength and conditioning and golf coaches can use this study to review their applied practices, consider benefits/limitations to online coaching and to modify future interventions.		[Langdown, Ben L.] Open Univ, Sch Educ Childhood Youth & Sport, Milton Keynes, England; [Langdown, Ben L.] Open Univ, Sch Educ Childhood Youth & Sport, Milton Keynes, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000891203800001	41	Article; Article		
J	Wayner, Robert A.; Robinson, Rachel; Simon, Janet E.								Gait asymmetry and running-related injury in female collegiate cross-country runners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				59				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.11.001			JAN 2023	2023	Background: Running biomechanics are commonly linked to injury. There is limited evidence on the effects of running speed on asymmetry and the prospective association of asymmetry and injury. The purposes of this study were to describe the degree in asymmetry in biomechanical variables commonly associated with injury, examine the effect of speed on asymmetry, and determine if there were any significant differences in pre-season measures of asymmetry between runners who went on to sustain an injury during the competitive season compared to those who remained healthy.Methods: Three-dimensional running biomechanics were obtained from twenty-two female collegiate cross-country runners at four different running speeds prior to their season. Asymmetry was quantified using the Symmetry Angle. Participants were followed over the twelve-week season and all time-loss injuries were identified.Findings: There was no significant effect of velocity on asymmetry. Additionally, there were no significant differences in symmetry between runners who sustained an injury (n = 7) and those that remained injury-free (n = 15) during the cross-country season. Interpretation: Clinicians working with runners should expect a high degree of symmetry in running biomechanics when performing gait analyses across running speeds. In regards to injury, caution should be used when linking injury to asymmetry.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Wayner, Robert A.] Ohio Univ, Sch Rehabil & Commun Sci, Div Phys Therapy, Athens, OH USA; [Simon, Janet E.] Ohio Univ, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Div Athlet Training, Athens, OH USA; [Robinson, Rachel] Univ Oregon, Dept Human Physiol, Eugene, OR USA; [Wayner, Robert A.] Ohio Univ, Div Phys Therapy, 1 Ohio Univ,Grover W271, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Wayner, Robert A.] Ohio Univ, Div Phys Therapy, 1 Ohio Univ,Grover W271, Athens, OH 45701 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000972833900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Bezuglov, E.; Pirmakhanov, B.; Ussatayeva, G.; Emanov, A.; Valova, Yu.; Kletsovskiy, A.; Khaitin, V.; Usmanova, E.; Butovskiy, M.; Morgans, R.								The mid-term effect of Osgood-Schlatter disease on knee function in young players from elite soccer academies								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	6			590	595		10.1080/00913847.2022.2148492			NOV 2 2023	2023	BackgroundThe aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of Osgood-Schlatter disease (OSD) on knee joint function in elite young soccer players. Our hypothesis was that knee joint function in elite young soccer players was impaired following OSD compared with soccer players with no history of OSD.MethodIn young male soccer players (n = 36) from elite academies (mean +/- SD, age: age: 15,3 +/- 1,7 years; height: 1,7 +/- 0,06 m; weight: 63,5 +/- 8 kg; BMI: 20,7 +/- 2). The duration between the completion of treatment or the last complaint to the study commencement was 31 +/- 19 months.ResultsThe average treatment duration of OSD among study participants was 18,5 +/- 12 days (95%, 14-23), and the disease most often manifested in winter and spring, 33% and 31% of cases, respectively. Soccer players with a history of OSD were statistically different in IKDC and KOOS scores when compared with soccer players with no previously reported OSD (Mann-Whitney, p < 0,0001). The soccer players with a history of OSD also use NSAIDs more frequently compared with soccer players with no history of OSD (36% vs 3% respectively).ConclusionsOSD among young soccer players, when symptoms resolve, continue about one month and they can return to regular training and participation in games. Wherein, the negative effects in knee joint function were significantly more likely in soccer players with previous OSD history when compared with their peers with no history of OSD. While oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs was also more widely employed in soccer players with previous OSD history. Potentially this may lead to performance deficits and disadvantages for their future careers and coaches and physicians should be informed.		[Bezuglov, E.] Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, Sechenov Univ, Moscow, Russia; [Bezuglov, E.] Moscow Witte Univ, High Performance Sports Lab, Moscow, Russia; [Bezuglov, E.] Acad Russian Football Union, Moscow, Russia; [Pirmakhanov, B.; Ussatayeva, G.] Al Farabi Kazakh Natl Univ, Alma Ata, Kazakhstan; [Pirmakhanov, B.] Football Club Kairat, Alma Ata, Kazakhstan; [Emanov, A.] Acad Talents, Moscow, Russia; [Emanov, A.; Usmanova, E.] Sports Med Clin Smart Recovery, Moscow, Russia; [Valova, Yu.; Kletsovskiy, A.] Kuban State Med Univ, Krasnodar, Russia; [Valova, Yu.] Acad Football Club Krasnodar, Krasnodar, Russia; [Khaitin, V.] Pavlov First St Petersburg State Med Univ, St Petersburg, Russia; [Butovskiy, M.] Kazan State Med Univ, Kazan, Russia; [Butovskiy, M.; Morgans, R.] Football Club Rubin Kazan, Kazan, Russia; [Pirmakhanov, B.] Al Farabi Kazakh Natl Univ, Alma Ata, Kazakhstan; [Pirmakhanov, B.] Football Club Kairat, Alma Ata, Kazakhstan								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000889139000001	45	Article; Article		
J	Lei, Man Kit; Cheng, Kuangyou B.								Biomechanical fidelity of athletic training using virtual reality head-mounted display: the case of preplanned and unplanned sidestepping								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	3			672	693		10.1080/14763141.2022.2146528			MAR 4 2025	2025	Virtual reality has recently been recognised as an effective tool for investigating visual-perceptual tasks. To develop a sport-specific virtual environment with realistic locomotion, it is crucial to examine the effect of using virtual reality devices on athletes performing intense and complex movements. Twelve collegiate football players were instructed to perform pre-planned and unplanned sidestepping in both environments with the same dimension and experimental setup in the virtual environment as in the real one. Analysis of the performance and knee biomechanical parameters showed that movements performed in the two environments were generally comparable. Consistent changes in approach velocity and knee angle/moment under unplanned conditions (compared with preplanned conditions) were also found in the virtual environment as in the real one, except for the significantly larger peak flexion angle (p < .05) observed in the virtual environment. Interestingly, half of the participants changed from producing abduction to adduction moment at the weight acceptance phase in the preplanned condition (p < .05). These findings suggested that while it is generally feasible to use virtual reality head-mounted displays for designated experiments and training, the effect of wearing virtual reality devices could be somewhat subject-specific.		[Lei, Man Kit; Cheng, Kuangyou B.] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan; [Cheng, Kuangyou B.] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000889140900001	58	Article; Article		
J	Escudero-Tena, Adrian; Almonacid, Bernardo; Martinez, Jorge; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Javier Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino; Munoz, Diego								Analysis of finishing actions in men's and women's professional padel								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1384	1389		10.1177/17479541221139970			JUN 2024	2024	The objective of this study was to analyse the effectiveness of finishing actions in men's and women's professional padel. To do this, the category, the type of finishing actions, the type of shot and the number of shots in 5513 points from five World Padel Tour tournaments were analysed. The results showed that men made more winners and fewer errors than women (p < 0.001); with smashes usually being the most frequently used shots to make winners, also highlighting the forehand off the wall smash in women's padel. The back wall shots and forehand or backhand shots without a wall appear as the most frequent errors in these finishing actions. Also, while men tend to make more errors with forehand volleys, women hit more winners with this shot. Men and women padel players make more errors (CSR = 6.7; CSR = 5.5) and fewer winners (CSR = -6.7; CSR = -5.5) in the first five shots of each point. However, they make fewer errors and more winning shots as the number of shots per point increases. These findings are highly relevant, since the style of play differs according to the gender of the players.		[Escudero-Tena, Adrian; Munoz, Diego] Univ Extremadura, Sport Sci Fac, Training Optimizat & Sport Performance Res Grp GO, Badajoz, Spain; [Almonacid, Bernardo] Univ Jaen, Higher Polytech Sch, Dept Elect Engn, Jaen, Spain; [Martinez, Jorge] M3 Padel Acad, Madrid, Spain; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Valencia, Spain; [Javier Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain								38							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000889845400001	29	Article; Article		
J	Villafaina, Santos; Fuentes-Garcia, Juan Pedro; Fernandes, Orlando; Munoz, Diego; Batalha, Nuno; Parraca, Jose A.								The impact of winning or losing a padel match on heart rate variability								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1296	1305		10.1177/17479541221140066			JUN 2024	2024	Padel is an intermittent sport that has significantly increased its practice in the past years. Previous studies showed that physical demands significantly differed depending on the results of the match (win or lose). However, no previous studies have investigated the effects on the heart rate variability (HRV) of padel players. The present study examined the impact of winning or losing a padel match on the player's HRV. A total of 27 players, with a mean age of 37.26 (9.42) years old and a body mass index (BMI) of 26.26 (3.21) participated in our study. The participant's HRV was assessed before, during and after a padel match. The match results were used to divide the sample between winners and losers. Time domain, frequency domain and non-linear measures were extracted. Results showed that both groups significantly decreased their HRV during and after the match. However, significant differences (p > 0.05) were not found between winners and losers in the HRV while playing padel or after the match. These differences could indicate that the physical load was similar in the two groups. Results highlight the importance and usefulness of analysing the HRV as an indicator of post-competitive fatigue in medium-level padel players.		[Villafaina, Santos; Fuentes-Garcia, Juan Pedro] Univ Extremadura, Fac Ciencias Deporte, Caceres, Spain; [Villafaina, Santos; Fernandes, Orlando; Batalha, Nuno; Parraca, Jose A.] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Escola Saude & Desenvolvimento Humano, Evora, Portugal; [Fernandes, Orlando; Batalha, Nuno; Parraca, Jose A.] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Fuentes-Garcia, Juan Pedro] Univ Extremadura, Fac Ciencias Deporte, Avda,Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Fuentes-Garcia, Juan Pedro] Univ Extremadura, Fac Ciencias Deporte, Avda,Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000889605200001	68	Article; Article		
J	Dobos, Tyler J.; Bench, Ryan W. G.; McKinnon, Colin D.; Brady, Anthony; Boddy, Kyle J.; Holmes, Michael W. R.; Sonne, Michael W. L.								Validation of pitchAI™ markerless motion capture using marker-based 3D motion capture								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	3			587	607		10.1080/14763141.2022.2137425			MAR 4 2025	2025	This study sought to compare and validate baseball pitching mechanics, including joint angles and spatiotemporal parameters, from a single camera markerless motion capture solution with a 3D optical marker-based system. Ten healthy pitchers threw 2-3 maximum effort fastballs while concurrently using marker-based optical capture and pitchAI (TM) (markerless) motion capture. Time-series measures were compared using R-squared (r(2)), and root mean square error (RMSE). Discrete kinematic measures at foot plant, maximal shoulder external rotation, and ball release, plus four spatiotemporal parameters were evaluated using descriptive statistics, Bland-Altman analyses, Pearson''s correlation coefficients, p-values, r(2), and RMSE. For time-series angles, r(2) ranged from 0.69 (glove arm shoulder external rotation) to 0.98 (trunk and pelvis rotation), and RMSE ranged from 4.37 degrees (trunk lateral tilt) to 20.78 degrees (glove arm shoulder external rotation). Bias for individual joint angle and spatiotemporal parameters ranged from -11.31 (glove arm shoulder horizontal abduction; MER) to 12.01 (ball visible). RMSE was 3.62 m/s for arm speed, 5.75% height for stride length and 21.75 ms for the ball visible metric. pitchAI (TM) can be recommended as a markerless alternative to marker-based motion capture for quantifying pitching kinematics. A database of pitchAI (TM) ranges should be established for comparison between systems.		[Dobos, Tyler J.; Bench, Ryan W. G.; Holmes, Michael W. R.; Sonne, Michael W. L.] Brock Univ, Dept Kinesiol, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [McKinnon, Colin D.] 3MotionAI, Oakville, ON, Canada; [Brady, Anthony; Boddy, Kyle J.] Driveline Baseball LLC, Kent, WA USA; [Sonne, Michael W. L.] Wrigley Field, Chicago Cubs, Chicago, IL USA; [Holmes, Michael W. R.] Brock Univ, Dept Kinesiol, St Catharines, ON, Canada								17							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000888562600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Scoz, Robson Dias; de Oliveira, Paulo Rui; Pelegrina Junior, Claudinei Chamorro; Hespanhol, Luiz; Melo-Silva, Cesar Augusto; Teixeira de Judice, Andre Filipe; Baltazar Mendes, Jose Joao; Alves Ferreira, Luciano Maia; Amorim, Cesar Ferreira								Effectiveness of a 3D bikefitting method in riding pain, fatigue, and comfort: a randomized controlled clinical trial								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	3			624	637		10.1080/14763141.2022.2140701			MAR 4 2025	2025	To investigate the effects of bike fitting compared to qualitative-based riding posture recommendations on comfort, fatigue, and pain in amateur cyclists. This was a randomised controlled parallel trial of 162 amateur cyclists divided into two groups: bike fitting group (BFG) - participants received a bike fitting session based on 3D kinematic assessments; and a control group (QG) - participants who received a handout containing qualitative-based cycling posture recommendations. Primary outcomes were perceived comfort (FEEL Scale), perceived fatigue (OMNI Scale), and perceived pain (numeric rating pain scale, NRPS). Outcomes were assessed at baseline, when the interventions were delivered, and after 15 days. Intention-to-treat analyses were conducted using student t-tests between pre and post intervention on both groups. All dependent variables from BFG displayed significant statistical difference between both groups post-intervention (p < 0.05). FEEL Scale and OMNI Scale results showed the highest changes of all variables under analysis (mean differences of 3.12 and 3.95 points, respectively); while the body parts with more reduction in riding pain were Groin and Back (mean differences of 1.68 and 1.35, respectively). In conclusion, 3D kinematic bikefit demonstrated superior improvements over riding pain, comfort and fatigue compared to qualitative riding posture recommendations.		[Scoz, Robson Dias; de Oliveira, Paulo Rui; Pelegrina Junior, Claudinei Chamorro; Hespanhol, Luiz; Amorim, Cesar Ferreira] Univ Cidade Sao Paulo UNICID, Masters & Doctoral Programs Phys Therapy, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Hespanhol, Luiz; Melo-Silva, Cesar Augusto] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Univ Med Ctr, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports,Dept, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Melo-Silva, Cesar Augusto] Univ Brasilia, Fac Med, Programa Grad Ciencias Med, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Teixeira de Judice, Andre Filipe; Baltazar Mendes, Jose Joao; Alves Ferreira, Luciano Maia; Amorim, Cesar Ferreira] Hosp Univ Brasilia, Dept Fisioterapia, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Amorim, Cesar Ferreira] Inst Univ Egas Moniz, Ctr Invest Interdisciplinar Egas Moniz CiiEM, Caparica, Portugal; [Amorim, Cesar Ferreira] Univ Quebec Chicoutimi, Lab Rech BioNR, Saguenay, PQ, Canada; [Scoz, Robson Dias] Univ Cidade Sao Paulo UNICID, Masters & Doctoral Programs Phys Therapy, Sao Paulo, Brazil								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000889299900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Sichao; Sado, Natsuki; Fujii, Norihisa								High-accuracy tennis players linearly adjust racket impact kinematics according to impact height during a two-handed backhand stroke								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	3			694	707		10.1080/14763141.2022.2146529			MAR 4 2025	2025	We hypothesised that high-accuracy players more linearly coordinate racket kinematics with impact heights under random height conditions than low-accuracy players. We compared the adjustments of racket kinematics according to impact height between high- and low-accuracy players. Fourteen male tennis players hit the incoming balls with a two-handed backhand at different impact heights (21-108% of body height) to a target area. The cluster analysis on accuracy divided participants into high- (n = 7, 48.6 +/- 2.4%) and low- (n = 7, 32.4 +/- 4.8%) accuracy groups. Most of the high-accuracy players linearly decreased the horizontal velocity, increased the vertical velocity, and increased the face angle of racket (R-2 = 0.42, 0.36, 0.66) as impact heights increased, while the low-accuracy group only linearly increased face angle (R-2 = 0.46) but not linearly adjusted horizontal and vertical velocities (R-2 = 0.02, 0.14). The linearities between horizontal velocity and face angle and between vertical velocity and face angle in high-accuracy group (R-2 = 0.40, 0.26) were significantly stronger than those in low-accuracy group (R-2 = 0.07, 0.08). We found that the high-accuracy players coordinate more racket kinematics and adopt a set of consistent solutions of adjustment according to impact heights. We suggest that players linearly adjust the velocities and the face angles of rackets according to impact heights when prioritising the accuracy.		[Zhang, Sichao] Univ Tsukuba, Grad Sch Comprehens Human Sci, Doctoral Program Phys Educ Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Sado, Natsuki; Fujii, Norihisa] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Fujii, Norihisa] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000888573500001	42	Article; Article		
J	Matzko, Chelsea; Saraf, Shreya; Saker, Christopher; O'Leary, Brendan; Stamm, Michaela; Mulcahey, Mary K.								Quality Assessment of YouTube Content on SLAP Tears								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	6			582	589		10.1080/00913847.2022.2147805			NOV 2 2023	2023	ObjectivesSuperior labrum anterior posterior (SLAP) tears can cause shoulder pain, disability, instability, and humeral head translation. YouTube has become an increasingly popular source of medical information, but little is currently known in terms of quality control of the uploaded content. The purpose of this study was to assess the quality of YouTube videos related to the diagnosis and treatment of Superior Labrum Anterior Posterior (SLAP) tears.MethodsYouTube was queried in August 2021 using the two predetermined keywords: 'SLAP tear' and 'superior labral tear.' The first 50 videos were analyzed by two independent reviewers and scored using 3 scoring systems: Global Quality Scale (GQS), the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), and the Shoulder-Specific Score (SSS) to determine video accuracy and reliability. Title, number of views, video duration, video source, content type, views/day, number of likes, number of dislikes, days since upload, like ratio (Like x 100/ [Like + Dislike]) and Video Power Index (VPI) (Like ratio x View ratio/100) were all recorded and analyzed.ResultsThe scores of most videos were low, with a mean JAMA score of 2.5 (1-4, SD 0.73), a mean GQS of 2.66 (0.5-4.5, SD 0.99) and a mean SSS of 7.13 (0-18, SD 4.39). There were significantly higher mean scores for JAMA, GQS, and SSS in the academic and independent physician categories, with a mean JAMA score of 3.11, GQS score of 3.39, and SSS score of 11 for academic sources and a mean JAMA score of 2.83, GQS score of 3.23, and SSS score of 9.23 for independent physician sources. JAMA score was significantly and positively correlated with video duration (r = 0.405, p = 0.006). Views, likes, dislikes, publication dates, and VPI were not significantly correlated with any scoring scale.ConclusionYouTube videos on the diagnosis and management of SLAP tears have low overall quality and reliability scores. Independent physician and academic institution sources received higher mean scores for JAMA, GQS, and SSS. Video quality was not correlated with number of views.		[Matzko, Chelsea; Saraf, Shreya; Saker, Christopher; O'Leary, Brendan] Tulane Univ, Sch Med, New Orleans, LA USA; [Stamm, Michaela; Mulcahey, Mary K.] Tulane Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New Orleans, LA USA; [Mulcahey, Mary K.] 1430 Tulane Ave,8632, New Orleans, LA 70112 USA; [Mulcahey, Mary K.] 1430 Tulane Ave,8632, New Orleans, LA 70112 USA								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000888498600001	23	Article; Article		
J	Dart, Jon								"<i>Giving PUMA the boot</i>"-A case study of a contemporary consumer sports boycott								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	2			278	294		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2022-0111			APR 3 2023	2023	PurposeThe purpose of this article is to offer a conceptual assessment of a contemporary consumer boycott of a global sports brand. A critical commentary is offered of the "Boycott PUMA" campaign with an examination of the positions and motivations of the different parties involved, specifically PUMA, the "Boycott PUMA" campaign, the Israeli Football Association and UEFA/FIFA.Design/methodology/approachThis article is a position and conceptual paper, designed to generate a discussion on what is an emotive consumer boycott campaign. A distinction is made between political boycotts and consumer boycotts, whether it is possible to separate sport from politics, and if PUMA's claimed position of neutrality in this conflict can be achieved.FindingsThe focus here is on PUMA's corporate social responsibility statement in which they claim that sport and politics do not mix, with their response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine in 2022 undermining this claim. PUMA's commitment to social justice is being used by the "Boycott PUMA" activists to expose the disconnect between PUMA's stated vision and its actions.Practical implicationsPUMA's brand has been built on creating a particular type of brand image, with a positive image and brand awareness essential for this sports apparel company. If the company finds itself in a media spotlight their brand equity can become damaged.Originality/valueWith very little research available on the Israel/Palestine from a sport sponsorship and marketing perspective, this article offers an original and much needed assessment of a potentially significant campaign.		[Dart, Jon] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Dart, Jon] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000885588300001	113	Article; Article		
J	Gremillion, Matthew J.; Martinez, Armando; Ghanta, Ramesh B.; Borici, Neritan; Kushare, Indranil								An assessment of the diagnosis, treatment, and outcomes of lower extremity stress fractures in pediatric and adolescent populations								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	6			572	581		10.1080/00913847.2022.2143247			NOV 2 2023	2023	Objectives To present one of the first descriptive case series of pediatric and adolescent lower extremity stress injuries, their management, and outcomes in athletes and non-athletes. Methods The IRB-approved retrospective study included patients under 18 years at a tertiary children's hospital who were diagnosed with a lower extremity stress fracture/reaction. Demographic data, mechanism of injury, physical exam, radiographic findings, treatment, & outcomes were collected. Descriptive statistical analysis was conducted. Results Ninety-seven patients with stress injuries on clinical exams and on radiographs or MRI were included. The average age when diagnosed was 11.7 years (range 1.1-18 years) and the most common injuries were to the tibia (n = 33, 28.4%) and the least common involved were the cuneiforms (n = 4, 3.4%). Patients under the age of 14 were more likely to experience cuboid and calcaneal stress injuries (mean age 5.5 and 8.3 years respectively). Nineteen patients (19.6%) had high-risk stress fractures, with the average age of 14.9 years versus 11.6 for those with low risk (p-value = 0.01) and return to activity time being 15 weeks compared to 10.5 (p-value = 0.027). The most common forms of treatment were controlled ankle motion (CAM), walker boots (58.6%), and physical therapy (PT) (38.1%). The mean Lower Extremity Function Score of the patient population was 73.8, indicating no clinically important difference from full functionality. Conclusion Lower extremity stress injuries in this cohort were most seen in the tibia, although patients younger than 14 had a high number of cuboid and calcaneal stress injuries. Those with high-risk stress fractures were older and took longer to recover from when compared to low-risk injuries. Treatment is commonly conservative, with CAM boots and PT being the most frequently utilized interventions and serving as a successful approach to treatment, with patients returning to activity at an average of 11.4 weeks, which is comparable to similar studies.		[Gremillion, Matthew J.; Martinez, Armando; Borici, Neritan; Kushare, Indranil] Baylor Coll Med, 1 Moursund St, Houston, TX 77030 USA; [Ghanta, Ramesh B.] Univ Calif San Francisco, Dept Orthoped Surg, San Francisco, CA 94143 USA; [Borici, Neritan; Kushare, Indranil] Texas Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Houston, TX 77030 USA; [Gremillion, Matthew J.] Baylor Coll Med, 1 Moursund St, Houston, TX 77030 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000884242000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Chao, Chun-Han; Kao, San-Fu; Tsai, Chou-Yu								Coaching efficacy and coaching effectiveness in predicting athlete satisfaction: A self-other agreement framework								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			350	360		10.1177/17479541221138043			APR 2023	2023	The purpose of this study is to examine the relationships between coaching efficacy (i.e. coaches' efficacy beliefs) regarding their competence, coaching effectiveness (i.e. athlete's perception regarding their coaches' efficacy), and the athletes' level of satisfaction with their sport experience. As both coaches and athletes can have different evaluations of coaches' abilities, the different perspectives of coaches and athletes can reveal the dynamics within a coach-athlete dyad. We used 380 competitive college basketball coach-player dyads to determine the differences between coaching efficacy and coaching effectiveness. Drawing on the theoretical argument from the self-other agreement framework and self-enhancement bias, we hypothesize that coaching efficacy (i.e. measured from coaches) is higher than coaching effectiveness (i.e. measured from athletes) and that coaching effectiveness can better predict athlete satisfaction than coaching efficacy. We analyze our data using Welch t-test, random coefficient modeling, and polynomial regression with response surface methodology to test our hypotheses. Our results support our hypotheses such that coaching efficacy is significantly higher than coaching effectiveness and that other-ratings have a better predictive validity for athlete satisfaction, as self-ratings (coach's efficacy belief) could be inflated by self-enhancement. Our findings on athletes' perceptions highlight the importance of athlete-centric coaching mechanisms.		[Chao, Chun-Han; Tsai, Chou-Yu] SUNY Binghamton, Bass Ctr Leadership Studies, Binghamton, NY USA; [Chao, Chun-Han; Tsai, Chou-Yu] SUNY Binghamton, State Univ New York, Binghamton, NY USA; [Kao, San-Fu] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Kao, San-Fu] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 521 Nan Da Rd, Hsinchu 30014, Taiwan; [Kao, San-Fu] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 521 Nan Da Rd, Hsinchu 30014, Taiwan								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000888432800001	46	Article; Article		
J	Zabaloy, Santiago; Galvez Gonzalez, Javier; Giraldez, Julian; Fink, Braian; Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Pereira, Lucas; Loturco, Irineu; Freitas, Tomas T.								Changes in body composition and physical performance measures during a regular competitive season among young backs and forwards rugby players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2144755				2022	This study aimed to compare the changes in body composition and physical qualities of under 19's backs and forwards during the season (i.e. from pre-season [Pre-S] to end-season [End-S]). Twenty-seven male youth rugby union players (mean +/- SD: age, Forwards [n = 11]: 17.5 +/- 1.2 and Backs [n = 16]: 17.0 +/- 0.9 years) participated in this study. Participants were tested twice (i.e. at Pre-S and End-S) and completed: anthropometric, body composition, countermovement and squat jumps, 30-m sprint, squat and bench press 1-repetition maximum (SQ-1RM and BP-1RM). Significant differences were observed between Pre-S and End-S for body mass (BM) and lean mass (LM), among both playing positions (p < 0.034; ES > 0.71), whereas all other variables remained unchanged. Regarding physical performance, backs and forwards showed greater SQ-1RM and BP-1RM, respectively (p < 0.043; ES>-0.69). Moreover, backs and forwards exhibited higher split times from 5 to 30 m (p: 0.013 to <0.001). Substantial increases were observed in BM and LM for backs and forwards, which may have negatively impacted acceleration (i.e. 5-m sprint time) and initial sprint momentum for both playing positions. Our findings highlight the importance of carefully balancing changes in BM and body composition, to avoiding the detrimental effects of these variations on sprint performance.		[Zabaloy, Santiago; Giraldez, Julian; Fink, Braian] Univ Flores, Fac Phys Act & Sports, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Galvez Gonzalez, Javier; Giraldez, Julian] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Seville, Spain; [Alcaraz, Pedro E.; Freitas, Tomas T.] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Pereira, Lucas; Loturco, Irineu; Freitas, Tomas T.] Nucleus High Performance Sport NAR, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Pereira, Lucas; Loturco, Irineu; Freitas, Tomas T.] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Freitas, Tomas T.] Univ Catolica Murcia, Fac Deporte, UCAM, Murcia, Spain; [Zabaloy, Santiago] Univ Flores, Fac Phys Act & Sports, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000883285400001	48	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Callary, Bettina; Gearity, Brian T.; Eagles, Kimberley; Szedlak, Christoph								Defining psychosocial strength and conditioning coaching competencies: A participatory action research approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			382	391		10.1177/17479541221137308			APR 2023	2023	Strength and conditioning (S&C) practitioners need to know and apply varying and diverse psychosocial competencies in their practice. The definitions of psychosocial coaching competencies are poorly understood and multiple interpretations exist. The purpose of this study was to define psychosocial S&C practice terms (i.e. pedagogical, philosophical, psychological, sociocultural) from the perspectives of S&C researchers and practitioners. Using a participatory action research approach, qualitative data were collected from 13 researchers and 30 stakeholders with the United Kingdom Strength and Conditioning Association (UKSCA). A qualitative summative content analysis was used to analyze the researchers' and UKSCA stakeholders' definitions of psychosocial competencies. Pedagogical competencies were defined related to the themes of instruction, learning, skill acquisition, feedback, and design structure. Philosophical competencies were defined related to themes of beliefs, values, and style. Psychological competencies were defined related to communication, mindset, relationships, motivation, emotions, learning, and behavior. Sociocultural competencies were defined related to sport norms, understanding differences and different backgrounds, adapting to culture, and coaching behavior and biases. Significant differences existed between researchers' and practitioners' definitions of these terms, particularly with pedagogical, philosophical, and sociocultural competencies. Practitioners often associated psychological coaching competencies with subject matter outside of biophysical knowledge or many aspects spanning diverse social and behavioral sciences.		[Callary, Bettina; Eagles, Kimberley] Cape Breton Univ, Experiential Studies Community & Sport, Sydney, NS, Canada; [Gearity, Brian T.] Univ Denver, Grad Sch Profess Psychol, Kinesiol & Sport Studies, 2450 South Vine St, Denver, CO 80210 USA; [Szedlak, Christoph] Hartpury Univ, Dept Sport, Hartpury, England; [Gearity, Brian T.] Univ Denver, Grad Sch Profess Psychol, Kinesiol & Sport Studies, 2450 South Vine St, Denver, CO 80210 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000883688900001	40	Article; Article		
J	Schoenberner, Jan; Woratschek, Herbert								Sport sponsorship as a booster for customer engagement: the role of activation, authenticity and attitude								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	2			259	277		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2022-0098			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose In marketing research, it is widely acknowledged that customer engagement leads to higher reputation, lower costs and increased revenues for firms. However, there are still open questions on how sport sponsorship can drive customer engagement. It is hypothesized that sponsors' activations correlate with customer engagement toward the sponsor. Specifically, the roles of sponsorship authenticity and attitudes toward the sponsor have received little attention in this context. Accordingly, this study aims to test the effects of sponsors' activations on customer engagement disposition (CED) and customer engagement behavior (CEB) by considering the roles of sponsorship authenticity and attitudes toward the sponsor. Design/methodology/approach An online experiment with a factorial between-subjects design with 529 total participants was conducted. Data were analyzed through analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) and binary regression analysis. Findings Sponsors' activations can lead to positive or negative CEB, depending on how sport consumers evaluate the activation. Sponsorship authenticity reduces or enhances CEB following a sponsor's activation. Moreover, consumers' prior attitudes toward the sponsor influence the relationship between sponsors' activations and CED. The findings further showed that CED leads to CEB. Originality/value This research contributes to the sport sponsorship literature by empirically proving that sponsors' activations increase customer engagement toward the sponsors. Moreover, this is the first study testing consequences of sponsors' activations in relation to sponsorship authenticity and consumers' attitudes. Furthermore, the authors enrich the customer engagement literature by discussing the sponsors' activations as a marketing strategy to increase customer engagement and consequently firms' performance.		[Schoenberner, Jan; Woratschek, Herbert] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Mkt & Serv Management, Bayreuth, Germany; [Schoenberner, Jan] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Mkt & Serv Management, Bayreuth, Germany								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000879403400001	49	Article; Article		
J	Fernandes, Rodrigo Volga; Tricoli, Valmor; Soares, Antonio Garcia; Miyabara, Elen Haruka; Aoki, Marcelo Saldanha; Laurentino, Gilberto								Low-Load Resistance Exercise with Blood Flow Restriction Increases Hypoxia-Induced Angiogenic Genes Expression								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			82	91		10.2478/hukin-2022-0101			NOV 8 2022	2022	The aim of the study was to determine whether low-load exercise (LL) with blood flow restriction (LL-BFR) would induce similar changes in expression of genes involved in hypoxia and angiogenesis compared to LL and high-load exercise (HL). Twenty-four males (age: 21.3 +/- 1.9 years, body height: 1.74 +/- 0.8 m, body mass: 73 +/- 1.8 kg) were allocated into three groups: low-load exercise (LL), low-load exercise with blood-flow restriction (LL-BFR), and high-load exercise (HL). For the LL-BFR group a pneumatic cuff was inflated at 80% of the arterial occlusion pressure. All participants performed bilateral knee extension exercise, twice a week, for 8 weeks. LL and LL-BFR groups performed 3-4 sets of 15 reps at 20% 1RM, whilst the HL group performed 3-4 sets of 8-10 reps at 80% 1RM with a 60-s rest interval between sets. The hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1 alpha) and beta (HIF-1 beta), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), neuronal (nNOS), and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) genes expression were assessed before and after training. HIF-1 alpha and HIF-1 beta mRNA levels significantly increased in the LL-BFR group and exceeded those elicited by HL and LL groups (p < .0001). VEGF gene expression was increased in both LL-BFR and HL groups, however, LL-BFR elicited a greater increase than LL (p < .0001). nNOS and iNOS genes expression significantly increased in all groups with greatest increases being observed in the LL-BFR group (p < .0001). The findings suggest that LL-BFR induces greater increases in genes expression related to hypoxia and angiogenesis than traditional resistance training.		[Fernandes, Rodrigo Volga; Aoki, Marcelo Saldanha; Laurentino, Gilberto] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Tricoli, Valmor; Laurentino, Gilberto] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Soares, Antonio Garcia; Miyabara, Elen Haruka] Univ Sao Paulo, Inst Biomed Sci, Dept Anat, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Laurentino, Gilberto] Rua Arlindo Bettio 1000, BR-03828000 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200009	28	Article; Article		
J	Oshikawa, Tomoki; Adachi, Gen; Akuzawa, Hiroshi; Okubo, Yu; Kaneoka, Koji								The Influence of Anticipation of Movement Starting Time on Feedforward Activation of Trunk Muscles During Rapid Shoulder Joint Movements								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			43	52		10.2478/hukin-2022-000073			NOV 8 2022	2022	This study aimed to clarify the differences in the onset of trunk muscle activity with and without anticipation of the movement starting time during rapid shoulder movements. Ten healthy men in a relaxed upright position performed rapid 135 degrees flexion, 135 degrees abduction, and 45 degrees extension of the shoulder on the dominant hand side with and without anticipation of the movement starting time. They moved their shoulder joints following a 3-s countdown and a light stimulus in the anticipation and non-anticipation conditions, respectively. Electromyography of the anterior and posterior quadratus lumborum, transversus abdominis, internal oblique, external oblique, rectus abdominis, lumbar multifidus, lumbar erector spinae on the non-dominant hand side, and the middle deltoid on the dominant hand side were measured. The onset of activity of each trunk muscle relative to the onset of the middle deltoid was calculated. Two-way analysis of variance (eight trunk muscles x two anticipation conditions) was used to compare the onset of electromyographic activity of the trunk muscles in each direction of the shoulder movement. There were significant interactions between the muscles and anticipation conditions during shoulder abduction and extension. The onset of activity in the anterior and posterior quadratus lumborum, transversus abdominis, and internal oblique occurred earlier with anticipation of the movement starting time than without anticipation during shoulder abduction and extension. The anticipation of movement starting time may contribute to a reliable center of mass control within the support base and improve lumbar spine stability by hastening the onset of activity of the deep trunk muscles.		[Oshikawa, Tomoki; Kaneoka, Koji] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 3-4-1 Higashifushimi Nishitokyo, Tokyo 2020021, Japan; [Adachi, Gen] Waseda Univ, Waseda Inst Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Akuzawa, Hiroshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Okubo, Yu] Saitama Med Univ, Fac Hlth & Med Care, Saitama, Japan; [Oshikawa, Tomoki] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 3-4-1 Higashifushimi Nishitokyo, Tokyo 2020021, Japan								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200005	32	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Hui; Jiang, Junxian								Evaluation of the Playing Time Benefits of Foreign Players in the Big-5 European Football Leagues								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			238	249		10.2478/hukin-2022-000072			NOV 8 2022	2022	To explore the benefits that foreign players bring to their clubs, this study used foreign players in the Big-5 European leagues (2013/2014-2017/2018 seasons) as samples and constructed a benefit model based on playing time and game points to evaluate the contribution of foreign players to their clubs in different leagues. The results showed the following: 1) from the 2013/2014 season to the 2017/2018 season, foreign players in the Bundesliga had the highest playing time benefits (PTBs) (0.526 +/- 0.012), followed by foreign players in La Liga (0.523 +/- 0.014), the Premier League (0.518 +/- 0.011), Serie A (0.500 +/- 0.012) and Ligue 1 (0.486 +/- 0.011); 2) foreign players from South America had the highest PTBs in the Big-5 leagues, while those from Africa had the lowest PTBs. However, among the different leagues, there were no significant differences in the PTBs of foreign players from the same continent; 3) PTBs of foreign players in the forward position were lower than those of foreign players in the defender position; 4) the country that produced foreign players in the Big-5 leagues with the highest total PTBs was Brazil, followed by Argentina, Spain and France. Additionally, the top 15 countries by total PTBs qualified for either the 2014 or the 2018 World Cup Final.		[Zhang, Hui; Jiang, Junxian] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200025	26	Article; Article		
J	Fernandez-Baeza, Daniel; Diaz-Urena, German; Gonzalez-Millan, Cristina								Differences in the Contractile Properties of the Biceps Femoris and Semitendinosus Muscles Throughout a Season in Professional Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			74	81		10.2478/hukin-2022-0088			NOV 8 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to monitor seasonal changes in the mechanical and neuromuscular characteristics of the knee flexor muscles with tensiomyography, the biceps femoris (BF) and semitendinosus (ST) muscles, of 27 soccer players. All male professional soccer players (age 25 +/- 4 years) were measured at the beginning of the preseason (second week) and in the competitive season (10 weeks later). The variables contraction time (Tc) and muscle displacement (Dm) showed significant differences in some muscles, and in others they indicated a tendency to change. In general, the BF improved (more explosive and better muscle tone) and the ST worsened (slower and worse muscle tone) its values during the season. The findings of this study suggest that usual daily soccer training and weekly competition might produce antagonistic changes between the knee flexor muscles.		[Fernandez-Baeza, Daniel; Diaz-Urena, German; Gonzalez-Millan, Cristina] Francisco de Vitoria Univ, Fac Hlth, Madrid, Spain; [Fernandez-Baeza, Daniel] Francisco de Vitoria Univ, Carretera Pozuelo Majadahonda Km 1-800, Madrid 28223, Spain								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200008	30	Article; Article		
J	Solleveld, Henny; Slaets, Bram; Goedhart, Arnold; VandenBossche, Luc								Associations of Masticatory Muscles Asymmetry and Oral Health with Postural Control and Leg Injuries of Elite Junior Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			21	31		10.2478/hukin-2022-0086			NOV 8 2022	2022	The influence of asymmetry between masticatory muscles on postural control is still under debate and only few studies examined the impact of oral health on injury risk. The present study investigated the relationships between masticatory muscles asymmetry, oral health, postural control and the prevalence of (non-contact or traumatic) leg injuries in a sample of 144 male elite junior soccer players. sEMG of the masseter and temporal muscles was performed during maximum teeth clenching, postural control was tested by measuring sway velocity during the unipedal stance with eyes closed, while oral health and the number of leg injuries were assessed using a questionnaire. The time-1 assessment was repeated in a subgroup of 69 players after one year. Pearson and partial correlation coefficients and adjusted odds ratios (OR) were used to assess associations. Asymmetry between the masseter and temporalis muscles (AMTM, quantified as anteroposterior coefficient, APC) was associated with higher sway velocity on the dominant leg (using time-1 data partial r = -0.24, p = 0.004, using longitudinal data partial r = -0.40, p = 0.005). Higher prevalence of two or more leg injuries throughout a competitive season was associated with poor oral health (adjusted OR (95%CI) using time-1 data = 2.14 (1.02-4.46), using longitudinal data = 4.47 (1.25-15.96)). These results indicate that AMTM has a negative influence on the sway velocity of the dominant leg only, possibly because frequent balancing exercises on the non-dominant leg may counteract negative influences of AMTM. The association of oral health with leg injuries underlines the need for oral health promotion and monitoring strategies in sports.		[Solleveld, Henny; Slaets, Bram; Goedhart, Arnold] SportsInjuryLab, De Pionier 52, NL-8254 BA Dronten, Netherlands; [VandenBossche, Luc] Ghent Univ Hosp, Phys Rehabil & Sports Med, Ghent, Belgium; [Goedhart, Arnold] SportsInjuryLab, De Pionier 52, NL-8254 BA Dronten, Netherlands								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200003	34	Article; Article		
J	Stania, Magdalena; Krol, Tomasz; Marszalek, Wojciech; Michalska, Justyna; Krol, Piotr								Treatment of Jumper's Knee with Extracorporeal Shockwave Therapy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			124	134		10.2478/hukin-2022-0089			NOV 8 2022	2022	The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to determine the therapeutic efficacy of extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) for athletes with patellar tendinopathy. We searched PubMed, EBSCOHost and Ovid for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) which evaluated the therapeutic efficacy of ESWT in athletes with jumper's knee. The methodological quality of RCTs was rated with the Physiotherapy Evidence Database scale. Data in the meta-analysis were expressed as standardized mean difference (SMDs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Heterogeneity was assessed with I-2 statistics. Of 192 records identified, a total of seven articles met the inclusion criteria. The ESWT and control groups with any other conservative treatment did not differ significantly with respect to the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) long-term scores obtained at >= 6 months of therapy completion (SMD: -0.33; 95% CI: -4.64 to 3.98; p = 0.87; I-2= 98%). Furthermore, no significant differences were found between the ESWT and control groups regarding the pooled Victorian Institute of Sports Assessment for Patella (VISA-P) scores for long-term outcomes (SMD: 8.21; 95% CI: -39.3 to 55.73; p = 0.73; I-2= 99%). The ESWT and control groups did not differ significantly on the VAS and VISA-P scores for long-term outcomes. In both cases, heterogeneity was considered to be high. Hence, no clear and generalized conclusions can be drawn regarding ESWT effectiveness in athletes with patellar tendinopathy.		[Stania, Magdalena; Marszalek, Wojciech; Michalska, Justyna; Krol, Piotr] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Krol, Tomasz] Med Univ Silesia, Sch Hlth Sci Katowice, Dept Kinesitherapy & Special Methods, Katowice, Poland; [Stania, Magdalena] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200013	33	Article; Article		
J	Araya-Ibacache, Mauricio; Aedo-Munoz, Esteban; Carreno-Ortiz, Pablo; Moya-Jofre, Christopher; Prat-Luri, Amaya; Cerda-Kohler, Hugo								Dynamic Stretching Increases the Eccentric Rate of Force Development, but not Jump Height in Female Volleyball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			158	165		10.2478/hukin-2022-0071			NOV 8 2022	2022	The present study aimed to analyze the effect of static and dynamic stretching exercises on the rate of force development (RFD) during the eccentric braking phase and jump height in a countermovement jump (CMJ) in female volleyball players. Thirty female volleyball players were randomly distributed in a static stretching (n = 10; SG), a dynamic stretching, and (n = 10; DG) a control group (n = 10; CG). A force plate and a 3D analysis system were employed to detect the eccentric braking phase during the CMJ. The RFD was analyzed in RFD (RFDi) intervals and the accumulated RFD (RFDa), and normalized to body mass. The SG experienced a likely small decrease in the RFDa (mean difference -17.4 N/s/kg) and a likely small decrease in the RFDi (mean difference -19.1 N/s/kg). Contrarily, the DG showed a likely small increase in the RFDa (mean difference 31.2 N/s/kg) and a most likely small increase in the RFDi (mean difference 34.8 N/s/kg). The effect of both static and dynamic stretching on jump height was trivial. Practitioners should consider utilizing dynamic stretching exercises instead of static stretching before a competition in female volleyball players. Further research is needed in order to find complementary strategies during the warm-up that could increase jump height.		[Araya-Ibacache, Mauricio; Aedo-Munoz, Esteban; Moya-Jofre, Christopher] Inst Nacl Deportes, High Performance Ctr, Appl Sports Sci Unit, Santiago, Chile; [Araya-Ibacache, Mauricio; Moya-Jofre, Christopher] Hosp Trabajador, Kinesiol Dept, Santiago, Chile; [Aedo-Munoz, Esteban; Cerda-Kohler, Hugo] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Aedo-Munoz, Esteban] Univ Santiago, Phys Act Sport & Hlth Lab, Santiago, Chile; [Carreno-Ortiz, Pablo] Univ Santo Tomas, Phys Educ, Santiago, Chile; [Prat-Luri, Amaya] Univ Miguel Hernandez, Sport Res Ctr, Elche, Spain; [Cerda-Kohler, Hugo] Clin MEDS, Exercise Sci Lab, Integrat Exercise Physiol Sect, Lo Barnechea, Chile; [Cerda-Kohler, Hugo] Univ Metropolitana Ciencias La Educ, Dept Phys Educ Sports & Recreat, Nunoa, Chile; [Cerda-Kohler, Hugo] Univ Santo Tomas, Fac Salud, Escuela Ciencias Deporte & Actividad Fis, Santiago, Chile; [Cerda-Kohler, Hugo] Univ Santo Tomas, Fac Salud, Escuela Ciencias Deporte & Actividad Fis, Santiago, Chile								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200016	24	Article; Article		
J	Pilch, Wanda; Zychowska, Malgorzata; Piotrowska, Anna; Czerwinska-Ledwig, Olga; Mikul'akova, Wioletta; Sadowska-Krepa, Ewa								Effects of Elevated Body Temperature on Selected Physiological Indices and Thermal Stress in Athletes and Non-Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			112	123		10.2478/hukin-2021-0131			NOV 8 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of active and passive overheating. A group of athletes (A) and non-athletic men (N) underwent an exercise stress test at elevated ambient temperature and sauna bathing until an increase in rectal temperature of 1.2 degrees C was observed. It was shown that group A performed physical exercise for a longer period of time, which elicited significantly higher amounts of work performed in the stress test. Both forms of overheating caused a significant decrease in BM and a significant change in plasma volume, while greater dehydration was observed after active overheating. Changes observed in group A were higher than in group N. MCV levels were initially higher in group A. The levels in both groups decreased after sauna bathing, although in non-athletes the decrease was greater. Both forms of overheating increased Hb, HCT, and SBP, while only the non-athletic group showed a decrease in DBP after the exercise stress test. However, a decrease in DBP was observed in both groups after sauna bathing. The PSI increased after both tests, yet to a higher extent after the stress test than after sauna bathing. The PSI was negatively correlated with VO2max in both groups. The increase in cortisol concentration was higher after sauna bathing. There was a correlation between cortisol levels and the work performed during the stress test in group A. Endurance training resulted in more efficient thermoregulatory mechanisms in athletes.		[Pilch, Wanda; Piotrowska, Anna; Czerwinska-Ledwig, Olga] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Fac Physiotherapy, Inst Basics Sci, Krakow, Poland; [Zychowska, Malgorzata] Kazimierz Wielki Univ Bydgoszcz, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Sport, Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Mikul'akova, Wioletta] Univ Presov, Fac Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy, Presov, Slovakia; [Sadowska-Krepa, Ewa] Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Piotrowska, Anna] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Fac Physiotherapy, Inst Basics Sci, Krakow, Poland								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200012	48	Article; Article		
J	Marques, Diogo Luis; Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Sousa, Antonio Carlos; Travassos, Bruno; Marques, Mario Cardoso								Strength and Power Performance Changes During an In-Season Resistance Training Program in Elite Futsal Players: A Case Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			184	194		10.2478/hukin-2022-0096			NOV 8 2022	2022	In this study, we aimed to analyze (i) the strength and power changes after resistance training (RT) in elite futsal players, and (ii) the associations between the session rate of perceived exertion (sRPE) and perceived total quality recovery (TQR), and the sRPE and TQR with the volume load of the RT program. Ten elite futsal players (24.8 +/- 5.4 years; 76.2 +/- 7.1 kg; 1.77 +/- 0.05 m) performed an in-season 8-week RT program twice per week. RT consisted of 2-3 sets x 3-6 reps at 45-65% of one-repetition maximum (1RM) with maximal velocities in the full squat and complementary exercises with the same volume. We assessed the TQR before every session, while the sRPE was calculated after each RT session. One week before and after the intervention, we measured the countermovement jump (CMJ) height, isometric hip adduction strength (IHAS), 1RM, and peak power (PP) in the full squat progressive loading test. After the 8-week training program, there was a significant improvement in most outcomes, yet the gains (%Delta) remained below the minimal detectable change (MDC), except for IHAS (CMJ: p < 0.05, %Delta = 6.7, MDC% = 7.2; IHAS: p < 0.001, %Delta = 19.1, MDC% = 14.6; 1RM: p > 0.05, %Delta = 9.2, MDC% = 21.5; PP: p < 0.05; %Delta = 14.4, MDC% = 22.4). We also found a significant negative correlation between TQR and the sRPE (r = -0.45, p < 0.001). Our data suggest that RT based on low-volume and low-to-moderate loads may not produce a sufficient stimulus to induce meaningful dynamic strength and power gains in elite futsal players, although it improves isometric strength. Furthermore, monitoring TQR before sessions may show coaches how the elite futsal player will perceive the session's intensity.		[Marques, Diogo Luis; Ribeiro, Joao Nuno; Sousa, Antonio Carlos; Travassos, Bruno; Marques, Mario Cardoso] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Sousa, Antonio Carlos; Travassos, Bruno; Marques, Mario Cardoso] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Marques, Mario Cardoso] Rua Morais Convento, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200019	33	Article; Article		
J	Tashiro, Tsubasa; Maeda, Noriaki; Sasadai, Junpei; Shimizu, Reia; Suzuki, Akira; Komiya, Makoto; Fukui, Kazuki; Tsutsumi, Shogo; Arima, Satoshi; Kaneda, Kazuki; Yoshimi, Mitsuhiro; Mizuta, Rami; Abekura, Takeru; Esaki, Hinata; Terada, Tomoki; Urabe, Yukio								Characteristics of Falls Among Men's Wheelchair Rugby Players in the Rio 2016 and Tokyo 2020 Summer Paralympic Games: A Video Analysis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			233	237		10.2478/hukin-2022-0104			NOV 8 2022	2022	Wheelchair rugby is a contact sport in which falls are common and injury rates are high, yet the characteristics of the falls are still under-reported. We investigated the fall characteristics of men's wheelchair rugby players by functional classification, using all 36 official match videos from the Rio 2016 and Tokyo 2020 summer Paralympic Games. The videos were analyzed to evaluate the number of falls, playing time when the fall occurred, playing phase (offense or defense), contact with other players, foul judgement, direction of the fall, and the body part first in contact with the floor. All 182 men's wheelchair rugby players (Rio 2016, 94; Tokyo 2020, 88) were classified as low-point players or high-point players depending on their functional classification. A total of 200 falls were detected, 27 (13.5%) for low-point players and 173 (86.5%) for high-point players. Significant differences were noted between low-point players and high-point players in the direction of the fall and body part first in contact with the floor. High-point players had more falls in the forward and left-right directions, whereas low-point players were characterized by a higher percentage of falls in the left-right and backward directions. Additionally, high-point players landed on the floor with their hands with high frequency, whereas low-point players landed with their elbows and shoulders more often. Our findings suggest the significance of devising measures to prevent falls during men's wheelchair rugby games according to their functional classification.		[Tashiro, Tsubasa; Maeda, Noriaki; Komiya, Makoto; Fukui, Kazuki; Tsutsumi, Shogo; Arima, Satoshi; Kaneda, Kazuki; Yoshimi, Mitsuhiro; Mizuta, Rami; Abekura, Takeru; Esaki, Hinata; Terada, Tomoki; Urabe, Yukio] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Biomed & Hlth Sci, Minami Ku, 1-2-3 Kasumi, Hiroshima 7348553, Japan; [Sasadai, Junpei; Shimizu, Reia; Suzuki, Akira] Japan Inst Sports Sci JISS, Sports Med Ctr, Kita Ku, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka, Tokyo 1150056, Japan; [Urabe, Yukio] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Biomed & Hlth Sci, Minami Ku, 1-2-3 Kasumi, Hiroshima 7348553, Japan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200024	9	Article; Article		
J	Abdollahipour, Reza; Land, William M.; Bizovska, Lucia; Klein, Tomas; Valtr, Ludvik; Janura, Miroslav								Steady, Aim, Fire! Optimized Instructions Enhance Performance and Reduce Intra-Trial Variability in a Shooting Task								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			1	11		10.2478/hukin-2022-000077			NOV 8 2022	2022	The present study examined the influence of the individual and sequential combination of the key components of OPTIMAL (Optimizing Performance Through Intrinsic Motivation and Attention for Learning) theory (i.e., enhanced expectancies, autonomy support, and external focus), on the performance of a laser-pistol shooting task. In addition to shooting accuracy, intra-trial variability in the sway of forearm/pistol motion prior to movement execution (pulling the trigger) was the primary variable of interest. In a between-within-subject design, thirty-six participants (Mage = 21.27 +/- 1.75 years) were randomized into either a control or an optimized group. Enhanced expectancies, autonomy support, and an external focus were implemented via sequential blocks of trials for participants in the optimized group. Participants in the control group performed all trials under "neutral" conditions. Our results showed that motor performance was enhanced for participants in the optimized group compared to those in the control group. Moreover, greater reductions in forearm sway leading up to the trigger pull were observed for the optimized group compared to the control group. These findings suggest higher movement effectiveness and efficiency, potentially through better attunement to task and environmental constraints, when implementing optimized instructions in a self-initiated fine motor task.		[Abdollahipour, Reza; Bizovska, Lucia; Klein, Tomas; Valtr, Ludvik; Janura, Miroslav] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Fac Phys Culture, Trida Miru 117, Olomouc 77111, Czech Republic; [Land, William M.] Univ Texas San Antonio, Coll Hlth Community & Policy, Dept Kinesiol, San Antonio, TX USA; [Abdollahipour, Reza] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Fac Phys Culture, Trida Miru 117, Olomouc 77111, Czech Republic								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Sas-Nowosielski, Krzysztof; Kandzia, Klaudia								Acute Effects of Post-Activation Performance Enhancement of 5RM Weighted Pull-Ups and One Arm Pull-Ups on Specific Upper Body Climbing Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			206	215		10.2478/hukin-2022-0097			NOV 8 2022	2022	This study aimed to compare the acute effects of performing two kinds of pull-ups: traditional, pronated grip pull-ups performed with two arms and additional weight with loading intensity of 5RM and one-arm pull-ups, on specific upper body climbing power. Twenty-four advanced climbers participated in the study. The International Rock Climbing Research Association (IRCRA) Power Slap Test was chosen to assess specific upper body climbing power. All athletes performed the test under three conditions: control (without a conditioning activity) and both kinds of pull-ups as conditioning activities. Results revealed significant improvements in the Power Slap's distance, power, velocity, and force in 5RM weighted pull-ups, but not in one-arm pull-ups. In the latter case, participants reached higher power values after the conditioning stimulus, but the effect size was small. Also, the differences with the remaining variables (power, speed, and force) were non-significant. The results suggest that weighted pull-ups with a 5RM intensity and not one arm pull-ups seem to be an effective PAPE stimulus. Therefore, the former can be used as a conditioning activity before an explosive climbing exercise such as the Power Slap on a campus board.		[Sas-Nowosielski, Krzysztof; Kandzia, Klaudia] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Sas-Nowosielski, Krzysztof] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200021	41	Article; Article		
J	Chena, Marcos; Alfonso Morcillo-Losa, Jose; Luisa Rodriguez-Hernandez, Maria; Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan; Pastora-Linares, Beatriz; Carlos Zapardiel, Juan								Workloads of Different Soccer-Specific Drills in Professional Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			135	147		10.2478/hukin-2022-000075			NOV 8 2022	2022	Soccer is a predominantly tactical sport and, therefore, tactical training has become the most widely used strategy to improve players' performance. The objective of the present study was to assess the workload of soccer-specific drills in professional players over a two-season period in an established context. GPS technology was used to record the data. One hundred and thirty-two (n = 132) soccer-specific drills were studied and grouped by categories. The individual demands of each task were related to the individual competitive profile of each player. The level of physical demand was significantly different in relation to the specific soccer drills analysed. Total distance covered, high-speed running, and the total number of high accelerations and decelerations were significantly higher in competition than in drills used for training sessions (p < .001). The Large-Sided Games (LSG), Big-Position Games (BPG) and Position Games (PG) showed higher maximum running speed values than the rest of the exercises (p < .01). The sum of high accelerations and decelerations values was greater in the Small-Sided Games (SSG) than in BPG (p < .001), Small-Position Games (SPG) (p < .001) and Physical-Technical Circuits (PTC) (p < .001). Significant differences were observed in the exercises analysed according to the player's position. The current findings provide a detailed description of conditional demands placed on soccer players in different soccer-specific drills during training sessions, in a professional soccer context and according to their playing position, which may be helpful in the development of individualized training programs in other contexts.		[Chena, Marcos; Alfonso Morcillo-Losa, Jose; Luisa Rodriguez-Hernandez, Maria; Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan; Carlos Zapardiel, Juan] Univ Alcala, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Biomed Sci, Ctra Madrid Barcelona,Km 33,600, Madrid 28871, Spain; [Chena, Marcos; Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Univ Jaen, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Jaen, Spain; [Pastora-Linares, Beatriz] European Univ Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sports & Comp Sci, Seville, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Univ Alcala, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Biomed Sci, Ctra Madrid Barcelona,Km 33,600, Madrid 28871, Spain								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200014	38	Article; Article		
J	Tanaka, Takahiro; Hashizume, Satoru; Kurihara, Toshiyuki; Isaka, Tadao								The Large and Strong Vortex Around the Trunk and Behind the Swimmer is Associated with Great Performance in Underwater Undulatory Swimming								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			63	73		10.2478/hukin-2022-0087			NOV 8 2022	2022	Swimmers can produce horizontal body velocity by generating and shedding vortices around their body during underwater undulatory swimming (UUS). It has been hypothesized that the horizontal shedding velocity, area and circulation of the vortex around the swimmer's body are associated with UUS performance. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the shedding velocity, area and circulation of vortices around swimmers' bodies are correlated with the horizontal body velocity during UUS. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) was conducted to obtain the vortex structure during UUS in nine male swimmers. Morphological and kinematic data of each subject were obtained and used to reconstruct the UUS movement on CFD. The horizontal velocity of the center of vorticity, the area and circulation of vortices around the ventral side of the trunk, dorsal side of shoulder and waist, and behind the swimmer were determined from the simulation results. Positive correlations were found between the vortex area and circulation around the ventral side of the trunk (area r = 0.938, p < 0.05; circulation r = 0.915, p < 0.05) and behind the swimmer (area r = 0.738, p < 0.05; circulation r = -0.680, p < 0.05), and the horizontal body velocity. The horizontal shedding velocity of the center of vorticity of the vortices around the swimmer's body was not significantly correlated with the horizontal body velocity. These results suggest that the generation of a large and strong vortex around the trunk and behind the swimmer is associated with great UUS performance.		[Tanaka, Takahiro] Ritsumeikan Univ, Grad Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, 1-1-1 Noji Higashi, Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan; [Hashizume, Satoru; Isaka, Tadao] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan; [Kurihara, Toshiyuki] Ritsumeikan Univ, Res Org Sci & Technol, Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan; [Tanaka, Takahiro] Ritsumeikan Univ, Grad Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, 1-1-1 Noji Higashi, Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200007	34	Article; Article		
J	Filip-Stachnik, Aleksandra; Kaszuba, Magdalena; Dorozynski, Bartlomiej; Komarek, Zuzanna; Gawel, Dawid; Del Coso, Juan; Klocek, Tomasz; Spieszny, Michal; Krzysztofik, Michal								Acute Effects of Caffeinated Chewing Gum on Volleyball Performance in High-Performance Female Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			92	102		10.2478/hukin-2022-0092			NOV 8 2022	2022	To date, no investigation has studied the effect of acute intake of caffeinated chewing gum on volleyball performance. Therefore, the aim of this investigation was to establish the impact of caffeinated chewing gum ingestion on physical performance in female volleyball players. Twelve high-performance volleyball female athletes participated in a randomized, crossover, placebo-controlled, and double-blind experiment. Each athlete performed two identical experimental sessions after a) ingestion of similar to 6.4 mg/kg of caffeine via caffeinated chewing gum, b) ingestion of non-caffeinated chewing gum as a placebo. After the ingestion of gum, athletes performed a volleyball game, and performance was assessed by a notational analysis. Just before and after the game, jump performance during block and attack actions was evaluated. The number of points obtained and the number of errors committed during serve, reception, attacking, and blocking actions were unaffected by the ingestion of caffeinated chewing gum (p from 0.066 to 0.890). However, caffeinated chewing gum increased jump attack height in comparison to the placebo (pre-game 46.0 +/- 7.2 vs. 47.2 +/- 6.7 cm, p = 0.032; post-game 46.3 +/- 7.6 vs. 47.5 +/- 6.9 cm, p = 0.022, respectively). Caffeinated chewing gum did not modify block jump height (pre-game 32.7 +/- 5.5 and 33.0 +/- 4.3 cm, p = 0.829; post-game: 34.8 +/- 6.1, 35.4 +/- 6.1 cm, p = 0.993, respectively). The ingestion of similar to 6.4 mg/kg of caffeine via caffeinated chewing gum was effective for improving jump attack performance in women volleyball athletes. However, this effect was not translated into better volleyball performance during a game.		[Filip-Stachnik, Aleksandra; Kaszuba, Magdalena; Dorozynski, Bartlomiej; Gawel, Dawid; Krzysztofik, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Kaszuba, Magdalena; Komarek, Zuzanna; Gawel, Dawid] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Nutr & Sports Performance Res Grp, Katowice, Poland; [Del Coso, Juan] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Fuenlabrada, Spain; [Klocek, Tomasz; Spieszny, Michal] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Inst Sports Sci, Krakow, Poland; [Filip-Stachnik, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200010	39	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Catarina C.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Costa, Mario J.								The Mechanical and Efficiency Constraints when Swimming Front Crawl with the Aquanex System								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				84	1			166	173		10.2478/hukin-2022-0090			NOV 8 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to compare the mechanical and efficiency constraints between free swim and swimming with differential pressure sensors (Aquanex System). These conditions were also analysed to understand the differences between sexes. Thirty young swimmers, 14 boys and 16 girls (12.31 +/- 0.67 years) performed three 25-m front crawl maximal bouts under each condition: free swim and swimming with sensors. Under the condition with sensors, swimmers carried the Aquanex System composed of two hand pressure sensors (v.4.1, Model DU2, Type A, Swimming Technology Research, Richmond, VA, USA). The 25-m time (T25) was assessed as a swimming performance variable. The swimming velocity (v), stroke rate (SR), and stroke length (SL) were assessed and calculated as stroke mechanics variables. Thereafter, the stroke index (SI) and arm stroke efficiency (eta(F)) were estimated for swimming efficiency. Statistical significance was set at p <= 0.05. Swimming performance was impaired when swimmers swam with sensors (overall: p = 0.03, d = 0.14; Delta = 1.30%) and a significant decrease in v was found for overall (p = 0.04, d = 0.14; Delta = 1.42%) and the girls' group (p < 0.01, d = 0.39; Delta = -1.99%). The remaining stroke mechanics variables showed no differences between conditions, as well as for swimming efficiency. Furthermore, there were no differences between girls and boys in free swim and with sensors for all variables. Swimming with the Aquanex System seems not to impose constraints in the mechanics and efficiency of young swimmers, despite differences in swimming performance and v.		[Santos, Catarina C.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina C.] Polytech Inst Guarda, Dept Sport Sci, Av Dr Francisco Sa Carneiro 50, P-6300559 Guarda, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina C.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Costa, Mario J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Costa, Mario J.] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP UP, Porto, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina C.] Polytech Inst Guarda, Dept Sport Sci, Av Dr Francisco Sa Carneiro 50, P-6300559 Guarda, Portugal								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000879493200017	30	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Lingjun; Deguchi, Tatsuya; Shiokawa, Mitsuhisa; Hamaguchi, Kazuto; Shinya, Masahiro								A kinetic analysis of the judo osoto-gari technique: relationship to sweeping leg velocity								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	3			476	492		10.1080/14763141.2022.2125432			MAR 4 2025	2025	The present study characterised supporting leg kinetics (sweeping and pivot legs) during osoto-gari and investigated the relationship between kinetic variables and sweeping leg velocity at sweep contact. Fifteen black belt judoka performed osoto-gari. Motion data were recorded using a Mac3D motion analysis system (250 Hz), and ground reaction force (GRF) data were collected using four force plates (1,000 Hz). During the swing phase, the peak anterior (r = -0.535, p = 0.040) and upward (r = -0.693, p = 0.005) GRFs generated by the sweeping leg and the peak plantar flexion moment (r = 0.548, p = 0.034) and power (r = -0.700, p < 0.005) of the sweeping leg ankle joint significantly correlated with the sweeping leg velocity at sweep contact. During the throwing phase, the peak clockwise moment (r = -0.604, p = 0.017) correlated with the peak sweeping leg velocity. The peak knee extension moment (r = 0.602, p = 0.018), hip flexion moment (r = -0.589, p = 0.021) and knee power (r = -0.618, p = 0.016) of the pivot leg also correlated with the sweeping leg velocity at sweep contact. The results indicated that exertion of the sweeping leg ankle plantar flexors positively contributed to the sweeping velocity. Increasing whole-body rotation by contracting the pivot leg knee extensors is a crucial biomechanical factor in accelerating the sweeping leg at sweep contact.		[Liu, Lingjun] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Integrated Arts & Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan; [Deguchi, Tatsuya; Hamaguchi, Kazuto; Shinya, Masahiro] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Humanities & Social Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan; [Shiokawa, Mitsuhisa] Hiroshima Int Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan; [Shinya, Masahiro] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Humanities & Social Sci, Higashihiroshima, Japan								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000879633800001	23	Article; Article		
J	Slade, Dennis G.; Cochrane, Darryl J.								An investigation into performances of novice field-hockey players' fundamental game skills when performed on natural and artificial grass surfaces								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			332	337		10.1177/17479541221135624			FEB 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to determine the relative levels of engagement novice field-hockey players had with the intent of the game's fundamental performance variables while playing on natural and artificial grass surfaces. Twenty novice male and female players (mean age 10.28 +/- 0.62 years) were randomly assigned to two groups. A cross-over study design was adopted to ensure players received sessions on natural and artificial grass surfaces. Sessions were delivered over a two-week period. Data was gathered from recorded games in weeks one and two using a video drone 25 m vertically above the hockey pitches. A computer notebook with video analysis software was used for lapsed-time analysis. A specific coding template was developed to determine the frequency of fundamental game skills of ball carrying (5 m); hitting (ball travels 5 m); pushing (ball travels 5 m), and ball contact during the games. The fundamental game skills of ball carrying, hitting, and pushing the ball >5 m, and ball manipulation, revealed significant (p < 0.01) differences in favour of player performances when playing on artificial grass. In contrast, there was a significant (p < 0.01) percent of short distance (<5 m) hitting and pushing the ball, and greater ball contact on natural compared to artificial grass. The artificial grass contexts allowed the players in this study to better perform the fundamental game skills within the intent of the game of field hockey that was measured in this study.		[Slade, Dennis G.; Cochrane, Darryl J.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Tennent Dr, Palmerston North 4442, New Zealand; [Cochrane, Darryl J.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Tennent Dr, Palmerston North 4442, New Zealand								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000878350500001	18	Article; Article		
J	Lundqvist, Carolina; Gregson, Warren; Bonanno, Daniele; Lolli, Lorenzo; Di Salvo, Valter								A worldwide survey of perspectives on demands, resources, and barriers influencing the youth-to-senior transition in academy football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			162	170		10.1177/17479541221135626			FEB 2024	2024	The youth-to-first team phase presents a number of challenges in the careers of modern football players with stagnation, inconsistent performance and dropout being reported. The aim of this study was to investigate the perception of staff involved in professional academy football clubs around the globe, with a particular focus on youth and first team transition demands, resources as well as transitions barriers and coping among male academy football players. Participants from 29 male youth academies distributed across 29 countries took part in the survey. Our main findings suggested training and match intensity reported as being greater at the senior-level and also pressure from parents. The majority of respondents indicated their clubs having long-term strategy for player development and specific roles supporting successful player transitions. Exposure to different playing styles was deemed important to prepare players for the first team. Likewise, having the academy and the first team training on the same site was perceived to ease the transition, with the majority of respondents indicating that players are able to cope with the pressure of first team training and games. Perceptions on whether staff do not have the skills/resources to prepare players for the changes in environment and culture when players move from youth-to-senior level were unclear. Collectively, our study extends previous transition research on youth football academies suggesting the importance of a club-based playing philosophy to prepare players for the first team demands and challenges.		[Lundqvist, Carolina] Linkoping Univ, Dept Behav Sci & Learning, Linkoping, Sweden; [Lundqvist, Carolina] Linkoping Univ, Athlet Res Ctr, Linkoping, Sweden; [Gregson, Warren; Bonanno, Daniele; Lolli, Lorenzo; Di Salvo, Valter] Aspire Acad, Football Performance & Sci Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Gregson, Warren; Lolli, Lorenzo] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport Sci, Football Exchange, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Di Salvo, Valter] Univ Rome Foro Italico, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Rome, Italy; [Lundqvist, Carolina] Linkoping Univ, Dept Behav Sci & Learning, Linkoping, Sweden								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000878351600001	46	Article; Article		
J	McManus, Chris J.; Butson, Joshua; Rogerson, Mike; Waterworth, Sally; Jones, Benjamin; Cooper, Chris E.; Sandercock, Gavin								The influence of full leg-length compression tights during treadmill running at race speed								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			401	409		10.1177/17479541221134156			FEB 2024	2024	The aim of the present study was to examine whether full leg-length compression tights modify physiological and kinematic measures during treadmill running at a competitive race pace in moderately trained runners. Thirteen males and five females completed two 15-minute running tests at a speed corresponding to a recent race time wearing compression tights or loose-fitting running shorts. Running economy (RE) was determined by oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide expiration during the final 3 minutes of treadmill running. Muscle oxygenation, skin temperature, heart rate (HR), vertical oscillation, step frequency and ground contact time (GCT) were measured continuously. GCT was shorter with compression compared with control trials (p = 0.03), however, no differences in RE, muscle oxygenation, vertical oscillation, step frequency, HR or skin temperature were revealed. Despite a shorter GCT with compression tights, the findings suggest that moderately trained runners do not benefit nor limit physiological responses at a competitive race pace.		[McManus, Chris J.; Butson, Joshua; Rogerson, Mike; Waterworth, Sally; Jones, Benjamin; Cooper, Chris E.; Sandercock, Gavin] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, ESA 3-14, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England; [McManus, Chris J.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, ESA 3-14, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000877816900001	44	Article; Article		
J	James, Carl A.; Gibson, Oliver R.; Willmott, Ashley G. B.; Stewart, Craig; Dhawan, Aishwar								Relationships between opponent ranking and locomotor activity in international field hockey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2070	2081		10.1177/17479541221131773			DEC 2023	2023	No research has investigated the effect of opponent world ranking (WR) on locomotor activity within modern (post-2015) international men's hockey. A retrospective analysis of 71 matches (vs. 24 opponents, WR# 12 +/- 11, WR# 1-86) investigated the relationships between opponent ranking at team and positional levels, on locomotor activity. Data were analysed using linear mixed modelling to; (1) explore relationships between opponent ranking and locomotor activity and (2) to compare between predefined ranking groups (WR# 1-8 'HIGHER' [n = 8], WR# 9-17 'SIMILAR' [n = 8] and WR >#18 'LOWER' [n = 8]), relative to the reference team (WR# 11). Significant relationships were found between opponent world ranking and total distance (beta = -6.11; p = 0.003), high-speed running ([HSR], beta = -4.87, p < 0.001), sprint distance ([SD], beta = -2.41, p < 0.001), sprint efforts ([SE], beta = -0.10, p < 0.001) and average speed (beta = -0.19, p < 0.001), but not low-speed running (beta = -0.94, p = 0.57). When analysed by ranking groups, HSR, SD and SE increased against HIGHER (+12%-14% vs. grand mean, p < 0.05) and reduced against LOWER teams (-15%-18% vs. grand mean, p < 0.05). The largest differences in SD were observed in forwards (HIGHER +14% and LOWER -19%) and defenders (HIGHER +20% and LOWER -18%). In international hockey, average speed is greatest when facing higher-ranked rather than similarly ranked opponents. Furthermore, high-speed but not low-speed activity, is modulated by opponent ranking.		[James, Carl A.] Natl Sports Inst, Natl Sports Complex, Kuala Lumpur 57000, Malaysia; [James, Carl A.] Hong Kong Sports Inst HKSI, Sha Tin, 25 Yuen Wo Rd, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Gibson, Oliver R.] Brunel Univ London, Ctr Phys Act Hlth & Dis CPHAD, Div Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Uxbridge, Middx, England; [Willmott, Ashley G. B.] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci CCSES, Cambridge, England; [Stewart, Craig] Clontarf Hockey Club, CS Performance, Dublin, Ireland; [Dhawan, Aishwar] EDGE10 Grp Ltd, London, England; [James, Carl A.] Natl Sports Inst, Natl Sports Complex, Kuala Lumpur 57000, Malaysia; [James, Carl A.] Hong Kong Sports Inst HKSI, Sha Tin, 25 Yuen Wo Rd, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000877862300001	33	Article; Article		
J	Asencio, Pablo; Hernandez-Davo, Jose L.; Garcia-Valverde, Adrian; Sabido, Rafael								Effects of flywheel resistance training using horizontal vs vertical exercises								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	1			410	416		10.1177/17479541221135372			FEB 2024	2024	Flywheel resistance training is a very useful method to optimize athletic performance. However, research assessing the different loading conditions hypothesis during flywheel resistance training is scarce. The aim of this study was to assess the influence of the loading conditions used during flywheel resistance exercise on improvements in athletic performance. Twenty nine (29) athletes were randomly assigned to three different flywheel resistance training groups: vertical-directed exercises (VR), horizontal-directed exercises (HR) and a mixed group (MIX). Performance assessment included one repetition maximum (1-RM) in the half-squat exercise, countermovement jump (CMJ) performance and change of direction (COD) ability (5-0-5 agility test). For the 1-RM squat, significant improvements were found in the VR (p = 0.011) and MIX groups (p = 0.015). All groups showed significant increases in CMJ height (p < 0.05), and significant decreases in 5-0-5 time with the non-dominant leg (p < 0.05). As regards 5-0-5 with the dominant leg, the VR (p = 0.004) and MIX groups (p = 0.001) showed significant decreases in 5-0-5 time. Non-significant group x time interactions were noted. In conclusion, all groups showed similar improvements in 1-RM squat, jumping and COD performance. However, the inclusion of vertical-directed exercises seems to optimize increases in 1-RM squat.		[Asencio, Pablo; Hernandez-Davo, Jose L.; Sabido, Rafael] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Sport Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Elche, Spain; [Hernandez-Davo, Jose L.; Garcia-Valverde, Adrian] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Hernandez-Davo, Jose L.] Univ Isabel I, Calle Fernan Gonzalez 76, Burgos 09003, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000877821400001	30	Article; Article		
J	Rewilak, Johan								The Designated Player Policy Rule and Attendance Demand in Major League Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	4			475	496		10.1177/15270025221134234			MAY 2023	2023	Evidence suggests that Major League Soccer's designated player (DP) rule increased match-day attendance in its inaugural season leading to expansion of this policy. However, there is a need to examine whether these findings are robust. Therefore, this paper uses the DP rule as a natural experiment to identify its effect on match-day attendance using a difference-in-difference estimation strategy. In contrast to existing research, when using a difference-in-difference estimator, the statistically significant effect of DPs on attendance vanishes but may be recovered when omitting domestic DPs from the set of DPs.		[Rewilak, Johan] Nottingham Trent Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Nottingham NG11 8NS, England; [Rewilak, Johan] Nottingham Trent Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Nottingham NG11 8NS, England								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000877266700001	38	Article; Article		
J	Melton, E. Nicole; Cunningham, George B.; MacCharles, Jeffrey D.; Isard, Risa F.								LGBTQ-inclusive fan codes of conduct in US athletic departments: a multilevel analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	3			432	448		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2022-0072			JUL 31 2023	2023	Purpose Sport organizations increasingly emphasize their support for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) inclusion by promoting a perfect score on the Athlete Ally Equality Index, partnering with nonprofits to increase awareness of LGBTQ individuals in sport (e.g. Rainbow Laces campaign), or hosting a pride night for LGBTQ fans. Despite these and similar efforts, LGBTQ fans historically have felt unwelcome in sport settings, thereby signaling the need for inclusive fan codes of conduct. The purpose of this study was to examine both the prevalence and antecedents of such policies. Design/methodology/approach Using publicly available data sources, the authors focused on 350 Division 1 college athletic departments in the USA. Findings Results illustrate factors at both the macro (i.e. institution) and meso- (i.e. athletic department) levels interact to explain whether a school will possess a fan code of conduct. Specifically, research-intensive institutions with strong gender equity are more likely to possess a code of conduct than schools that are not research oriented and have weak gender equity. This project extends the understanding of LBGTQ inclusion in the sports industry. Originality/value The current study is the first to examine the prevalence and predictors of LGBTQ-inclusive fan codes of conduct. Understanding these dynamics can help athletic programs that want to create safe and inclusive sport spaces for LGBTQ fans and spectators.		[Melton, E. Nicole; Isard, Risa F.] Univ Massachusetts Amherst, Mark H McCormack Dept Sport Management, Amherst, MA USA; [Cunningham, George B.] Univ Florida, Gainesville, FL USA; [MacCharles, Jeffrey D.] Univ N Texas, Denton, TX USA; [Melton, E. Nicole] Univ Massachusetts Amherst, Mark H McCormack Dept Sport Management, Amherst, MA USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000874860500001	84	Article; Article		
J	Csato, Laszlo								A comparative study of scoring systems by simulations								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	4			526	545		10.1177/15270025221134241			MAY 2023	2023	We study the trade-off between two risks for scoring rules used in sports competitions containing multiple contests: (1) the threat of early clinch when the title is clinched before the last contest(s) of the competition take place; and (2) the danger of winning the competition without finishing first in any contest. Four historical points scoring systems of the Formula One World Championship are compared with the family of geometric scoring rules. The current scheme seems to be a reasonable compromise close to the Pareto frontier. Our results contribute to the issue of choosing an optimal set of point values.		[Csato, Laszlo] Eotvos Lorand Res Network ELKH, Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAKI, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Res Grp Operat Res & Decis Syst, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Eotvos Lorand Res Network ELKH, Inst Comp Sci & Control SZTAKI, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Res Grp Operat Res & Decis Syst, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary								13							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000877845800001	30	Article; Article		
J	Tai, Mu-Lin; Yang, Chun-Ju; Tang, Wen-Tzu; Elliott, Bruce; Chang, Kai-Lung								Upper Extremity Muscle Activation during Drive Volley and Groundstroke for Two-Handed Backhand of Female Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			586	594		10.52082/jssm.2022.586			DEC 2022	2022	Drive volley is one of the essential backhand stroke technique trends seen in recent women's tennis competitions. Although movements of the drive volley and groundstroke are similar, activation of the internal muscles vary due to different incoming ball conditions. Most previous studies only focused on the groundstroke, however. The current study investigates the different muscle activation patterns in the upper extremity muscle during the two-handed backhand drive volley as well as the groundstroke for female tennis players. Ten elite female tennis players were measured in the muscle activation of the flexor carpi radialis (FCR), extensor carpi radialis (ECR), biceps brachii (BB), and triceps brachii (TB) from both upper extremities. Racket-head speed at impact, swing duration of each phase, and racket-head average velocity in both strokes were also recorded. Significant differences were found between the drive volley and groundstroke in the velocity profile of racket tip, swing duration of each phase (preparation, early follow-through, and late followthrough), activation patterns of upper extremity muscles, and flexor/ extensor ratios of wrist and elbow in both upper extremities. Different racket trajectory strategies were also observed between the two strokes, with greater horizontal racket velocity recorded in the groundstroke but greater vertical velocity in the drive volley. ECR and TB muscle activation during the drive volley preparation phase was greater than the groundstroke when completing a quicker backswing. In the early acceleration phase, the greater FCR leading arm activation in the drive volley assisted wrist stabilization in preparation for impact. In the late followthrough phase, less TB leading arm activity and higher ECR trailing arm activity in the drive volley showed more forward compression movement in racket contact with the ball. As it is essential for the drive volley to complete a quicker backswing and to increase shot efficiency at the end of the forward movement, coaches should consider the two strokes' muscle activation and technique differences to enhance specific techniques and fitness training programs.		[Tai, Mu-Lin; Yang, Chun-Ju; Tang, Wen-Tzu; Chang, Kai-Lung] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ NTSU, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Elliott, Bruce] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci, Perth, Australia; [Chang, Kai-Lung] Natl Chengchi Univ NCCU, Off Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Tang, Wen-Tzu] Natl Taiwan Sports Univ, Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, 250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan 33301, Taiwan; [Tang, Wen-Tzu] Natl Taiwan Sports Univ, Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, 250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan 33301, Taiwan								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000887994700001	37	Article; Article		
J	du Toit, Francois; Schwellnus, Martin; Jordaan, Esme; Swanevelder, Sonja; Wood, Paola								Clinical characteristics of gradual onset injuries in recreational road cyclists-SAFER XXVII study over 5 years in 62758 race entrants								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	6			564	571		10.1080/00913847.2022.2136984			NOV 2 2023	2023	Objective Gradual onset injuries (GOIs) in recreational cyclists are common but not well described. The aim of this study is to describe the clinical characteristics of GOIs (main anatomical regions, specific anatomical sites, specific GOIs, tissue type, severity of GOIs, and treatment modalities) of GOIs among entrants participating in a community-based mass participation-cycling event over 5 years. Methods During the 2016-2020 Cape Town Cycle Tour, 62,758 consenting race entrants completed an online pre-race medical screening questionnaire. 1879 reported GOIs in the previous 12 months. In this descriptive epidemiological study, we report frequency (% entrants) of GOIs by anatomical region/sites, specific GOI, tissue type, GOI severity, and treatment modalities used. Results The main anatomical regions affected by GOIs were lower limb (47.4%), upper limb (20.1%), hip/groin/pelvis (10.0%), and lower back (7.8%). Specifically, GOI were common in the knee (32.1%), shoulder (10.6%), lower back (7.8%) and the hip/buttock muscles (5.2%). The most common specific GOI was anterior knee pain (17.2%). 57.0% of GOIs were in soft tissue. Almost half (43.9%) of cyclists with a GOI reported symptom duration >12 months, and 40.3% of GOIs were severe enough to reduce/prevent cycling. Main treatment modalities used for GOIs were rest (45.9%), physiotherapy (43.0%), stretches (33.2%), and strength exercises (33.1%). Conclusion In recreational cyclists, >50% of GOIs affect the knees, shoulders, hip/buttock muscles and lower back, and 40% are severe enough to reduce/prevent cycling. Almost 45% of cyclists with GOIs in the lower back; or hip/groin/pelvis; or lower limbs; or upper limb reported a symptom duration of >12 months. Risk factors associated with GOIs need to be determined and preventative programs for GOIs need to be designed, implemented, and evaluated.		[du Toit, Francois; Wood, Paola] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Div Biokinet & Sports Sci, Pretoria, South Africa; [du Toit, Francois; Schwellnus, Martin; Wood, Paola] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme; Swanevelder, Sonja] South African Med Res Council, Biostat Unit, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] Univ Western Cape, Stat & Populat Studies Dept, Cape Town, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Sect Sports Med, Fac Hlth Sci, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000874124900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Epifano, Daniel J.; Ryan, Samuel; Clarke, Anthea C.; Minh Huynh; Anderson, Harvey; Middleton, Kane J.								Comparing tibial accelerations between delivery and follow-through foot strikes in cricket pace bowling								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2136582				2022	Foot strikes of the pace-bowling delivery stride produce large ground reaction forces, which may be linked to injury, yet the biomechanics of the follow-through are unknown. This study assessed tibial accelerations across the delivery and follow-through foot strikes in pace bowlers and evaluated relationships between these measures and five common pace-bowling intensity metrics. Fifteen sub-elite male pace bowlers performed deliveries at warm-up, match, and maximal intensities. Tibial accelerations were measured using tibial-mounted inertial measurement units and recorded at back- and front-foot initial and re-contacts. A trunk-worn global navigation satellite system unit measured PlayerLoad (TM), run-up speed, and distance. Ball speed and perceived exertion measures were also recorded. A linear mixed model showed statistical significance of prescribed intensities (p < .001) and foot strike for tibial acceleration (p < .001). Tibial accelerations showed positive increases with changes in prescribed intensity (p < .05). The greatest magnitude of tibial acceleration was found at back foot re-contact (mean +/- SD; 1139 +/- 319 m/s(2)). Repeated-measures correlations of tibial acceleration between foot contacts were weak (r = 0.2-0.4). The greatest magnitude of tibial acceleration reported at back foot re-contact may have implications for injury incidence, representing an important avenue for future pace bowling research.		[Epifano, Daniel J.; Middleton, Kane J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Appl Biomech Lab, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Epifano, Daniel J.; Ryan, Samuel; Clarke, Anthea C.; Minh Huynh; Middleton, Kane J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Anderson, Harvey] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Middleton, Kane J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Appl Biomech Lab, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Middleton, Kane J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000870970300001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Nayun Ahn; Kim, Hoon; Krzyszkowski, John; Roche, Stuart; Kipp, Kristof								Joint-level determinants of the dynamic strength index: implications for testing and monitoring								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2131614				2022	The aims of this study were to determine the associations and differences between the traditional dynamic strength index (DSIGRF, calculated from ground reaction force [GRF] data) and joint-level dynamic strength indices (DSINJM, calculated from net joint moment [NJM] data). Eight female NCAA Division I lacrosse players performed three maximal effort isometric mid-thigh pulls (IMTP) and countermovement jumps (CMJ). GRF and motion capture data were recorded and used to calculate hip, knee, and ankle NJM. The ratio between peak forces during the IMTP and CMJ tests was used to calculate the DSIGRF and the ratio of peak NJM was used to calculate ankle, knee, and hip DSINJM. Associations and differences between DSIGRF and DSINJM were examined with Pearson's correlation coefficients, paired t-tests and Hedge's g effect sizes. The results showed that only the hip DSINJM was correlated with DSIGRF (hip: p = 0.037; r = 0.738). In addition, athletes exhibited significantly greater DSINJM than DSIGRF. Although these results suggest DSIGRF are associated with hip DSINJM, the fact that joint-level DSINJM were generally greater than DSIGRF suggests the ratio between peak NJM during the CMJ and IMTP may not provide intuitive or useful data for strength and conditioning coaches or sport scientists.		[Nayun Ahn; Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Kim, Hoon] Soonchunhyang Univ, Dept Sports Med, Asan, South Korea; [Krzyszkowski, John] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Roche, Stuart] Marquette Univ, Dept Intercollegiate Athlet, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Nayun Ahn] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000870654600001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hassmen, Peter; Webb, Kyra; Stevens, Christopher J.								Athlete burnout and perfectionism in objectively and subjectively assessed sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2251	2258		10.1177/17479541221132913			DEC 2023	2023	When athletes are burning out, performance decreases whereas exhaustion and devaluation increases. Athletes with perfectionistic tendencies may be at greater risk for burnout than those with lower levels. But are there any differences between athletes participating in objectively assessed sports (utilizing unbiased measures, such as time, e.g. swimming) and athletes participating in subjectively assessed sports (relying on coach feedback, competition judges, or internal perceptions to gauge performance, e.g. competitive dancing)? A total of 108 athletes (including 53 athletes in objectively assessed and 55 athletes in subjectively assessed sports) completed the Sport Multidimensional Perfectionism Scale-2 and the Athlete Burnout Questionnaire. Significant relationships were detected between perfectionism and burnout; negative dimensions of perfectionism were more strongly correlated with burnout. However, no significant differences were observed between the sports groupings, either on perfectionism or burnout. This study suggests that perfectionistic concerns are positively associated with athlete burnout, regardless of the athlete's sport being objectively or subjectively assessed.		[Hassmen, Peter; Webb, Kyra; Stevens, Christopher J.] Southern Cross Univ, Fac Hlth, Hogbin Dr, Lismore, NSW 2450, Australia; [Hassmen, Peter] Southern Cross Univ, Fac Hlth, Hogbin Dr, Lismore, NSW 2450, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000871138300001	67	Article; Article		
J	Whyte, Enda; Mulcahy, Billy; Byrne, Aoibheann; Beidler, Erica; O'Connor, Siobhan; Collins, Micky W.; Kontos, Anthony P.								The effects of multi-directional, high intensity exercise on the vestibular/ocular motor screening (VOMS) assessment in recreational athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				126	133		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.10.006			NOV 2022	2022	Objective: Identify the effects of multi-directional, high intensity exercise on VOMS symptom scores in male and female recreational, college-aged athletes.Design: Cross-sectional study.Setting: Athletic Therapy facility.Participants: A convenience sample of 29 (15 females, 14 males; 21.48 +/- 1.40 years old) healthy recre-ational athletes.Main outcome measures: VOMS symptom scores pre, immediately post-, and 10 min post a multidirec-tional, high intensity intermittent exercise protocol (HIIP). Friedman tests and Wilcoxon Signed Rank tests identified significant differences at the time points. A Mann-Whitney U Test investigated the effect of sex.Results: The majority of component and overall VOMS symptom scores increased post-HIIP (p < 0.001-0.007, effect sizes 0.39-0.50) and 10 min post-HIIP (p = 0.003-0.015, effect sizes 0.32-0.39). Near point convergence distance increased immediately post-HIIP (p < 0.001, effect size 0.52). Females had higher smooth pursuits (z =-2.340, p = 0.019, r = 0.31), vertical vestibular ocular reflex (z =-2.81, p = 0.04, r = 0.39) visual motion sensitivity (z =-2.312, p = 0.021 r = 0.30) and overall VOMS symptom scores (z =-2.84, p = 0.04, r = 0.27) 10 min post-HIIP. Conclusions: Multidirectional, high intensity exercise can induce concussive-like changes in VOMS symptom scores in healthy, recreational athletes, particularly in females. These results may assist in SRC assessment and management of athletes involved in multidirectional, high intensity sports. (c) 2022 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Whyte, Enda; Mulcahy, Billy; Byrne, Aoibheann] Dublin City Univ, Ctr Injury Prevent & Performance, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dept Athlet Therapy & Training, Dublin, Ireland; [Beidler, Erica] Duquesne Univ, Dept Athlet Training, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [O'Connor, Siobhan; Collins, Micky W.; Kontos, Anthony P.] Univ Pittsburgh, Dept Orthopaed Surg, UPMC Sports Med Concuss Program, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Whyte, Enda] Dublin City Univ, 144a Albert Coll, Dublin, Ireland; [Whyte, Enda] Dublin City Univ, 144a Albert Coll, Dublin, Ireland								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900016	42	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Ellen; Edwards, Lisa; Dohme, Lea-Cathrin; Norman, Leanne								'I'm not prepared to sacrifice my life for other people's tennis': An explorative study into the career narratives of female tennis coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			339	349		10.1177/17479541221133299			APR 2023	2023	Research recognises the existence of a dominant performance narrative in elite sport that values a 'win at all costs' attitude, prioritising sport over all other facets of life. This narrative commonly privileges dominant groups of men at the expense of marginalised men and many women. To interrogate this aspect of sporting culture further, this study offers a unique insight into the influence of the dominant performance narrative within the coaching context. Specifically, a narrative analysis approach was employed to explore eight female tennis coaches' career experiences. Findings suggest that career success was judged on adherence to the dominant performance narrative which required a single-minded dedication to coaching. Whilst some of the coaches aligned closely with this narrative, adherence to the exclusive nature of the performance narrative caused tension and conflict for others. The coaches who did not adhere to the dominant performance narrative resisted cultural norms and aligned themselves with other, less dominant narratives. This highlights that career success in coaching can be a multidimensional concept and importantly that organisational culture needs to change in order that alternative narratives become more available and validated. This could lead to coach identity being less tied to adherence to the dominant performance narrative and focused more on personal development and well-being. Ultimately, this may result in higher levels of female coach attraction, retention, and progression.		[Jones, Ellen; Edwards, Lisa] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cyncoed Campus, Cardiff CF23 6XD, Wales; [Dohme, Lea-Cathrin] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cyncoed Campus, Cardiff, Wales; [Norman, Leanne] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Res Inst, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ellen] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cyncoed Campus, Cardiff CF23 6XD, Wales								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000870444600001	55	Article; Article		
J	Lenartowicz, Michal								Clash of sports organization cultures: Differences in table tennis training and coach-athlete relationships between China and Poland								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			46	56		10.1177/17479541221122455			FEB 2023	2023	This study focused on Chinese-origin table tennis athletes and cross-national comparisons of sports organization cultures with respect to perceived differences in the training process, competition, and coach-athlete relationships between China and Poland. Interviewed Chinese players and Polish coaches reported adaptation problems of Chinese athletes in Poland and numerous differences in table tennis training, organizational culture, and player-coach relations. Chinese athletes were used to a highly disciplined sports environment and formal relationships with coaches. Most of them reported work experiences in Poland as confounding factors in the organization of the training system and the coach-athlete relationships. These relationships were a source of coaching problems, as well as frustration among athletes. Presented cross-national analyses reveal some of the hidden aspects of sports migrations and the impact of cultural differences. The increasing globalization of sports shows that cultural differences should be considered in coaching education, and intercultural competency should be part of coaches' continuous professional development.		[Lenartowicz, Michal] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Dept Humanities & Social Sci, Warsaw, Poland; [Lenartowicz, Michal] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Dept Humanities & Social Sci, Warsaw, Poland								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000870453100001	35	Article; Article		
J	Shaw, James; Gould, Zachariah, I; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Perceptions and approaches of golf coaches towards strength and conditioning activities for youth golfers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1629	1638		10.1177/17479541221132371			OCT 2023	2023	Golfers who want to improve their technical proficiency will undoubtedly hire a swing coach who may also influence and give advice on how the golfer can improve outside of technical enhancement (i.e. strength and conditioning, warm-ups, cool-downs etc.). With research examining the effects of strength and conditioning on youth golfers beginning to materialise, it is important to ascertain golf coaches' perceptions of strength and conditioning, warm-ups and cool-downs and how they are utilised with youth golfers. Fifty Professional Golfers' Association Professionals and Assistant Professionals completed an online questionnaire on their perceptions of, and approaches to, strength and conditioning, warm-up and cool-down activities for youth golfers. Data indicated that 84% and 80% of coaches perceived strength and conditioning could enhance golf swing performance and reduce the risk of injury, respectively. Although all coaches agreed golfers aged 18 years and under can take part in strength and conditioning activities, there was no consensus on when a golfer should start strength and conditioning activities, with most coaches unaware of the existing guidelines surrounding youth resistance training. Warm-ups are perceived by coaches to be beneficial for youth golfers with > 75% of coaches stating their players completed a warm-up, however, the modes of exercise coaches deemed suitable for a warm-up were varied. Cool-downs were deemed beneficial for aiding recovery post-round, yet over half of coaches selected their players did not habitually complete one. Findings from the questionnaire highlight that although perceptions towards strength and conditioning, warm-ups and cool-downs are positive, educational solutions to disseminate the underlying contemporary guidelines and practical applications to coaches and players are required.		[Shaw, James; Gould, Zachariah, I; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Shaw, James] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000870441400001	61	Article; Article		
J	Faltstrom, Anne; Skillgate, Eva; Tranaeus, Ulrika; Weiss, Nathan; Kallberg, Henrik; Lyberg, Victor; Nomme, Mathias; Thome, Nicolai; Omsland, Truls; Pedersen, Eirik; Hagglund, Martin; Walden, Markus; Asker, Martin								Normative values and changes in range of motion, strength, and functional performance over 1 year in adolescent female football players: Data from 418 players in the Karolinska football Injury Cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				106	116		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.10.003			NOV 2022	2022	Objective: To study normative values of range of motion (ROM), strength, and functional performance and investigate changes over 1 year in adolescent female football players.Design: Cross-sectional.Participants: 418 adolescent female football players aged 12-17 years.Main outcome measures: The physical characteristic assessments included (1) ROM assessment of the trunk, hips, and ankles; (2) strength measures (maximal isometric and eccentric strength for the trunk, hips, and knees, and strength endurance for the neck, back, trunk and calves), and (3) functional per-formance (the one-leg long box jump test and the square hop test).Results: Older players were stronger, but not when normalized to body weight. Only small differences in ROM regarding age were found. ROM increased over 1 year in most measurements with the largest change in hip external rotation, which increased by 6-7 degrees (Cohen's d = 0.83-0.87). Hip (d = 0.28-1.07) and knee (d = 0.38-0.53) muscle strength and the square hop test (d = 0.71-0.99) improved over 1 year.Conclusions: Normative values for ROM and strength assessments of neck, back, trunk, hips, knees, calves and ankles are presented for adolescent female football players. Generally, fluctuations in ROM were small with little clinical meaning, whereas strength improved over 1 year.(c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Faltstrom, Anne; Skillgate, Eva; Weiss, Nathan; Kallberg, Henrik; Lyberg, Victor; Nomme, Mathias; Thome, Nicolai; Omsland, Truls; Pedersen, Eirik; Asker, Martin] Sophiahemmet Univ, Musculoskeletal & Sports Injury Epidemiol Ctr, Dept Hlth Promot Sci, Stockholm, Sweden; [Faltstrom, Anne; Hagglund, Martin] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping, Sweden; [Faltstrom, Anne] Ryhov Cty Hosp, Rehabil Ctr, Reg Jonkoping Cty, Jonkoping, Sweden; [Skillgate, Eva; Tranaeus, Ulrika; Weiss, Nathan; Asker, Martin] Inst Environm Med, Karolinska Inst, Unit Intervent & Implementat Worker Hlth, Stockholm, Sweden; [Tranaeus, Ulrika] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Nutr, Biomech, Stockholm, Sweden; [Kallberg, Henrik] Publ Hlth Agcy Sweden, Unit Anal, Dept Publ Hlth Anal & Data Management, Stockholm, Sweden; [Hagglund, Martin; Walden, Markus] Football Res Grp, Linkoping, Sweden; [Hagglund, Martin; Walden, Markus] Linkoping Univ, Sport Injury ProgrammE SWIPE, Linkoping, Sweden; [Walden, Markus] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Publ Hlth, Linkoping, Sweden; [Walden, Markus] GHP Ortho Ctr Skane, Malmo, Sweden; [Asker, Martin] Scandinavian Coll Naprapath Manual Med, Naprapathogskolan, Stockholm, Sweden; [Faltstrom, Anne] Sophiahemmet Univ, Musculoskeletal & Sports Injury Epidemiol Ctr, Dept Hlth Promot Sci, Stockholm, Sweden								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900014	31	Article; Article		
J	Akhundov, Riad; Saxby, David J.; Diamond, Laura E.; Snodgrass, Suzanne; Clausen, Phil; Drew, Michael; Dooley, Katherine; Pizzari, Tania; Rio, Ebonie; Schultz, Adrian; Donnan, Luke; McGann, Tye; Edwards, Suzi								Game-play affects hamstring but not adductor muscle fibre mechanics in elite U20 basketball athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2133006				2022	Muscle tendon unit fibre mechanics of hamstring and adductor strain injuries are not well studied, with factors such as fatigue promoted as risk factors in the absence of mechanistic evidence. In this study, musculoskeletal modelling was used to estimate fibre mechanics of four hamstring (biceps femoris long head, biceps femoris short head, semimembranosus and semitendinosus) and four adductor (adductor brevis, adductor longus, adductor magnus and gracilis) muscles during an anticipated cut task. The cut task was performed by 10 healthy elite male U20 basketball players both before and immediately after they played in one (of four) competitive basketball game. Biceps femoris long head produced significantly lower (p = 0.032) submaximal force post-game in the latter part of swing (30.7% to 35.0% of stride), though its peak force occurred later (37%) and remained unchanged. Semimembranosus produced significantly lower (p = 0.006) force post-game (32.9% to 44.9% of stride), which encompassed the instance of peak force (39%). Neither fibre velocity nor fibre length of the investigated muscles were significantly affected by game-play. These finding suggest that if fatigue is a factor in hamstring and adductor muscle strain injuries and is brought about by game-play, it is unlikely through the fibre mechanisms investigated in this study.		[Akhundov, Riad; Saxby, David J.; Diamond, Laura E.] Griffith Univ, Griffith Ctr Biomed & Rehabil Engn GCORE, Menzies Hlth Inst Queensland, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Akhundov, Riad; Diamond, Laura E.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Akhundov, Riad; Snodgrass, Suzanne; Dooley, Katherine; McGann, Tye] Univ Newcastle, Sch Hlth Sci, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Clausen, Phil] Univ Newcastle, Sch Engn, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Drew, Michael] Australian Inst Sport, Athlete Availabil Program, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Drew, Michael] Univ Canberra, Univ Canberra Res Inst Sport & Exercise UCRISE, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Drew, Michael] Australian Ctr Res Injury Sport & Its Prevent, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Pizzari, Tania; Rio, Ebonie] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Schultz, Adrian; Edwards, Suzi] Univ Newcastle, Sch Environm & Life Sci, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Donnan, Luke] Charles Sturt Univ, Fac Sci, Albury, NSW, Australia; [Edwards, Suzi] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Akhundov, Riad] Griffith Univ, Griffith Ctr Biomed & Rehabil Engn GCORE, Menzies Hlth Inst Queensland, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Akhundov, Riad] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Akhundov, Riad] Univ Newcastle, Sch Hlth Sci, Callaghan, NSW, Australia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000869506700001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Burger, James W.; Andersen, Lena S.; Joska, John A.								Baseline concussion assessments can identify mental disorders: SCAT-5 and other screening tools in South African club rugby								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	5			472	481		10.1080/00913847.2022.2134977			SEP 3 2023	2023	Objectives Although mental health screenings are not routinely conducted in rugby, the Sport Concussion Assessment Tool - Fifth Edition (SCAT-5) is widely performed and measures affective, cognitive, sleep, and physical symptoms. This study investigated the psychometric properties of the SCAT-5 to explore its potential as a mental health screening tool. Methods During preseason for the 2021 Western Province Super League A in South Africa, clinicians conducted mental health assessments of 71 adult male rugby union players. The SCAT-5 Symptom Evaluation, Baron Depression Screener for Athletes (BDSA), Athlete Psychological Strain Questionnaire (APSQ), Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression (CES-D), and Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7 (GAD-7) were compared to each other and to fully structured diagnostic interviews by mental health professionals using the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) 7.0.2. Results Lifetime MINI-defined mental disorders were common, being identified in 33.8% (95% CI 22.79-46.17%). Only 4.29% of participants had a previous diagnosis. Exploratory Factor Analysis indicated a mental health construct of depression/anxiety being measured by the SCAT-5. The SCAT-5 had strong internal consistency (alpha = 0.94) and showed moderate convergent validity with the CES-D (r = 0.34; p = 0.008) and GAD-7 (r = 0.49; p < 0.0001). The area under the curve for the ability of the SCAT-5 to identify current disorders was 0.87 (p = 0.003), on par with the CES-D and GAD-7. Conclusion Since the SCAT-5 has the potential to identify depression and anxiety, it may allow mental health screening without the need for additional measures. Follow-up studies should further explore its discriminative ability in larger samples.		[Burger, James W.; Joska, John A.] Univ Cape Town, Dept Psychiat & Mental Hlth, Div Neuropsychiat, HIV Mental Hlth Res Unit, Rondebosch, South Africa; [Andersen, Lena S.] Univ Copenhagen, Dept Publ Hlth, Global Hlth Sect, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Burger, James W.] Groote Schuur Hosp, Dept Psychiat & Mental Hlth, Private Bag X4, Cape Town, South Africa								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000869498900001	60	Article; Article		
J	Quintana-Cepedal, Marcos; de la Calle, Omar; Medina-Sanchez, Maria; Crespo, Irene; del Valle, Miguel; Olmedillas, Hugo								Characterising groin pain in rink hockey: Function and five-second squeeze in Spanish players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				100	105		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.10.004			NOV 2022	2022	Objectives: To assess the relationship between history of past season groin pain and current pain during the five-second squeeze test (5SST) with groin function and adductor strength in rink hockey players. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: First (Ok Liga), Second (Plata) and third division (Bronce) clubs. Participants: Sixty-eight female and 183 male hockey players. Main outcome measures: Seasonal prevalence of groin pain (time/non-time-loss). Adductor strength and pain during the 5SST. Function was evaluated with the Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS). Results: Seasonal time-loss groin pain prevalence was 21%. Male players had 3.5 higher odds of having had an episode of time-loss groin pain during the previous season compared to female players. The adductor relative strength was no different between players with and without previous season groin injury (p 1/4 0.53-0.55), while the HAGOS results differed between groups, with past season groin injury players obtaining lower values in all subscales. HAGOS scores differed between the 5SST pain intensity groups (p < 0.01). Conclusions: Male players had higher odds of having had a groin injury in the previous season compared to female players. Players with pain during 5SST and previous season groin injury reported functional deficits, while strength remains identical to their healthy counterparts. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Quintana-Cepedal, Marcos; de la Calle, Omar; Crespo, Irene; Olmedillas, Hugo] Univ Oviedo, Dept Funct Biol, Oviedo, Spain; [Medina-Sanchez, Maria] Univ Oviedo, Dept Surg, Oviedo, Spain; [Crespo, Irene; del Valle, Miguel] Univ Oviedo, Dept Cellular Morphol & Biol, Oviedo, Spain; [del Valle, Miguel; Olmedillas, Hugo] Hlth Res Inst Principal Asturias ISPA, Oviedo, Spain; [Olmedillas, Hugo] Univ Oviedo, Dept Funct Biol, Oviedo, Spain								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900013	35	Article; Article		
J	Iitake, Tsuyoshi; Hioki, Maya; Takahashi, Hitoshi; Nunome, Hiroyuki								Differences in lower leg kinetics of soccer instep kicking between female and male players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2133738				2022	We aimed to clarify the difference in lower leg segment kinetics of soccer instep kicking between female and male players. Instep kicking motions of seven female and seven male university soccer players were captured at 500 Hz. Lower leg angular velocity, knee joint moment and the interaction moment acting on the lower leg were calculated. Discrete variables were compared using two sample-t-test, and statistical parametric mapping were used to compare the time-series changes between the two groups. Although female players maintained a comparable magnitude of lower leg angular velocity, they exhibited significantly lower knee extension moment in the latter part of kicking and significantly smaller forward angular impulse due to that moment. In contrast, female players were found to have a comparable magnitude of angular impulse due to forward component of interaction moment to that of male players. Eventually, female players come to have significantly larger ratio of angular impulses (forward interaction moment/knee extension moment) than male players. It can be considered that the forward component of interaction moment acting on the lower leg of female players may compensate their reduced exertion of knee extension moment, thereby achieving a comparable lower leg angular velocity to that of male players.		[Iitake, Tsuyoshi] Fukuoka Univ, Grad Sch Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Hioki, Maya] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Hlth Care & Med Sports, Dept Rehabil, Ichihara, Chiba, Japan; [Takahashi, Hitoshi] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Dept Med Sports, Fac Hlth Care & Med Sports, Ichihara, Chiba, Japan; [Nunome, Hiroyuki] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Iitake, Tsuyoshi] Fukuoka Univ, Grad Sch Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000870945900001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kasahara, Kazuki; Konrad, Andreas; Yoshida, Riku; Murakami, Yuta; Koizumi, Ryoma; Sato, Sigeru; Ye, Xin; Thomas, Ewan; Nakamura, Masatoshi								Comparison of the Prolonged Effects of Foam Rolling and Vibration Foam Rolling Interventions on Passive Properties of Knee Extensors								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			580	585		10.52082/jssm.2022.580			DEC 2022	2022	Foam rolling (FR) and vibration foam rolling (VFR) interventions have received attention as pre-exercise warm-ups because they maintain performance and increase range of motion (ROM). However, the immediate and prolonged effects and the compari-sons between FR and VFR interventions are unknown. Therefore, this study was designed to compare the effects of FR and VFR interventions on passive properties of knee extensors over time (up to 30 min after interventions). A crossover, random allocation design was used with 14 male college students (22.1 +/- 1.0 years old) in the control, FR, and VFR conditions. The knee flexion ROM, pain pressure threshold (PPT), and tissue hardness were measured before and immediately after, 10, 20, and 30 minutes after the intervention. The results showed that knee flexion ROM increased significantly immediately after the intervention in both the FR and VFR conditions and maintained up to 30 minutes after both conditions. PPT increased significantly (p < 0.01) immedi-ately after the FR intervention. In the VFR condition, there was a significant increase in PPT immediately after the intervention (p < 0.01) and 10 minutes after the intervention (p < 0.05). Tissue hardness was significantly decreased (p < 0.01) immediately after and 10 minutes after the FR intervention. However, tissue hard-ness in the VFR condition was significantly decreased (p < 0.01) up to 30 minutes after the intervention. The results suggest that FR and VFR interventions increase knee flexion ROM, and the effect lasts at least 30 minutes, but the effects on PPT and tissue hardness are maintained a longer time in the VFR condition com-pared to the FR condition. Therefore, VFR can be recommended as a warm-up before exercise to change the passive properties of knee extensors.		[Kasahara, Kazuki; Yoshida, Riku; Murakami, Yuta; Sato, Sigeru] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Koizumi, Ryoma] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, Niigata, Japan; [Ye, Xin] Univ Hartford, Dept Rehabil Sci, West Hartford, CT USA; [Thomas, Ewan] Univ Palermo, Dept Physiol Educ Sci & Human Movement, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Unit, Palermo, Italy; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Kanzaki, Saga, Japan; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, 4490-9 Ozaki, Kanzaki, Saga 8428585, Japan; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, 4490-9 Ozaki, Kanzaki, Saga 8428585, Japan								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000874703400001	22	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Leslie E.; Van Guilder, Gary P.; Dalleck, Lance C.; Harris, Nigel K.								The Effects of a Single Session of High Intensity Functional Training on Energy Expenditure, VO2, and Blood Lactate								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			545	554		10.52082/jssm.2022.547			DEC 2022	2022	High intensity functional training (HIFT) provides a potential op-tion to meet public exercise recommendations for both cardi-orespiratory and strength outcomes in a time efficient manner. To better understand the potential for HIFT as an exercise approach, energy expenditure (EE) and relative intensity need quantifying. In thirteen sedentary men and women with metabolic syndrome (MetS), we used both indirect calorimetry and blood lactate levels to calculate EE of a single session of HIFT. The HIFT session included four, 6-minute sets of consecutive functional exercises. Examples of the exercises involved were squats, deadlifts, sus-pension rows, suspension chest press, and planks. Intensity is de-scribed relative to individual ventilatory thresholds. The total group EE was 270.3 +/- 77.3 kcal with approximately 5% attributed anaerobic energy production. VO2 ranged between 88.8 +/- 12.3% and 99 +/- 12% of the second ventilatory threshold (VT2), indicat-ing a vigorous effort. After each work interval, peak blood lactate ranged between 7.9 +/- 1.9 and 9.3 +/- 2.9 mmol, and rate of per-ceived exertion between 6.9 +/- 1.0 and 8.7 +/- 0.8 arbitrary units from 1-10. These were achieved in approximately 46 minutes of exercise per participant. In conclusion, HIFT elicits the energy expenditure and effort requisite to result in the adaptive responses to produce the known suite of benefits of exercise for individuals with MetS.		[Smith, Leslie E.; Van Guilder, Gary P.; Dalleck, Lance C.] Western Colorado Univ, Dept Recreat Exercise & Sport Sci, Gunnison, CO 81231 USA; [Harris, Nigel K.] Auckland Univ Technol, Human Potential Ctr, Auckland, New Zealand; [Smith, Leslie E.] Western Colorado Univ, Dept Recreat Exercise & Sport Sci, Gunnison, CO 81231 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000874412500001	47	Article; Article		
J	Takeuchi, Kosuke; Akizuki, Kazunori; Nakamura, Masatoshi								Acute Effects of Different Intensity and Duration of Static Stretching on the Muscle-Tendon Unit Stiffness of the Hamstrings								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			528	535		10.52082/jssm.2022.528			DEC 2022	2022	The effects of static stretching are influenced by prescribed and applied loads of stretching. The prescribed load is calculated from the stretching duration and intensity, whereas the applied load is assessed from the force of static stretching exerted on the targeted muscle. No previous study has investigated the prescribed and ap-plied loads of static stretching on the muscle-tendon unit stiffness simultaneously. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to examine the acute effects of the prescribed and applied load of static stretching on the change in the muscle-tendon unit stiffness of the hamstrings by using different intensities and durations of static stretching. Twenty-three participants underwent static stretching at the intensity of high (50 seconds, 3 sets), moderate (60 seconds, 3 sets), and low (75 seconds, 3 sets), in random or-der. The parameters were the range of motion, passive torque, and muscle-tendon unit stiffness. These parameters were measured before stretching, between sets, and immediately after stretching by using a dynamometer machine. The static stretching load was calculated from the passive torque during static stretching. The muscle-tendon unit stiffness decreased in high-and moderate-in-tensity after 50 (p < 0.01, d =-0.73) and 180 seconds (p < 0.01, d =-1.10) of stretching respectively, but there was no change in low-intensity stretching for 225 seconds (p = 0.48, d = -0.18). There were significant correlations between the static stretching load and relative change in the muscle-tendon unit stiffness in moderate-(r =-0.64, p < 0.01) and low-intensity (r =-0.54, p < 0.01), but not in high-intensity (r =-0.16, p = 0.18). High-inten-sity static stretching was effective for a decrease in the muscle-tendon unit stiffness even when the prescribed load of static stretching was unified. The applied load of static stretching was an important factor in decreasing the muscle-tendon unit stiffness in low-and moderate-intensity static stretching, but not in high-intensity stretching.		[Takeuchi, Kosuke] Kobe Int Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Akizuki, Kazunori] Mejiro Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Saitama, Saitama, Japan; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Kanzaki, Saga, Japan; [Takeuchi, Kosuke] Kobe Int Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000871401300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Boroojerdi, M. Hashem; Rahimi, A.; Roostayi, M. M.; Moghaddam, S. Talebian; Yousefi, M.; Norouzi, M.; Baghban, A. Akbarzadeh								The occurrence of flexion-relaxation phenomenon in elite cyclists during trunk forward bending								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2126326				2022	Flexion-relaxation phenomenon (FRP) is a well-known phenomenon in spinal extensor muscles. According to the literature, prolonged flexed posture leads to creep phenomenon and affects the active and passive neuromuscular control of the spinal column. The purpose of this study was to investigate FRP occurrence in elite cyclists that prolonged flexion posture is an integral part of their professional life. Their muscles' contraction pattern during forward bending was also compared. Electromyography (EMG) was recorded during flexion and extension from standing position in thoracic erector spinae (TES), lumbar erector spinae (LES) and gluteus maximus (Gluteus max) in 15 healthy male elite cyclists. In addition, the kinematic data related to the trunk angles were simultaneously recorded by a motion analysis system. Two-way ANOVA was used to assess the effects of muscle group and direction of movement on maximum amplitude of EMG activity. Among 15 cyclists, FRP was detectable in 60%, 87% and 73% of the participants in TES, LES and Gluteus max, respectively, and happened between 74% and 82% of the trunk flexion. There was no statistically significant difference in onset and offset of muscles FRP. Despite prolong hyper kyphotic posture, FRP was identifiable in TES, LES and Gluteus max muscles of elite cyclists.		[Boroojerdi, M. Hashem; Rahimi, A.; Roostayi, M. M.; Yousefi, M.; Norouzi, M.] Shahid Beheshti Univ Med Sci, Sch Rehabil, Dept Physiotherapy, Tehran, Iran; [Moghaddam, S. Talebian] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Fac Rehabil, Dept Physiotherapy, Tehran, Iran; [Yousefi, M.] Univ Birjand, Sch Phys Educ, Birjand, Iran; [Baghban, A. Akbarzadeh] Shahid Beheshti Univ Med Sci, Sch Paramed Sci, Dept Biostat, Tehran, Iran; [Rahimi, A.] Shahid Beheshti Univ Med Sci, Sch Rehabil, Dept Physiotherapy, Tehran, Iran								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000868214100001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Stojanovic, Emilija; Scanlan, Aaron Terrence; Radovanovic, Dragan; Jakovljevic, Vladimir; Faude, Oliver								A multicomponent neuromuscular warm-up program reduces lower-extremity injuries in trained basketball players: a cluster randomized controlled trial								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	5			463	471		10.1080/00913847.2022.2133978			SEP 3 2023	2023	Objective To assess the effects of a novel multicomponent neuromuscular warm-up program on lower-extremity injury incidence in basketball players competing at the regional level. Methods A cluster randomized controlled experimental design was adopted to compare injury incidence between players exposed to the injury prevention warm-up program and those exposed to a typical warm-up program across an entire basketball season. Four teams consisting of 57 players (male: n = 42; female: n = 15) were allocated to the intervention group (age: 21.6 +/- 2.5 years; height: 186.2 +/- 8.8 cm; body mass: 80.0 +/- 10.4 kg) and four teams consisting of 55 players (male: n = 43; female: n = 12) were allocated to the control group (age: 21.6 +/- 2.6 years; height: 186.9 +/- 9.1 cm; body mass: 81.5 +/- 10.9 kg). The novel warm-up combined running exercises with active stretching, plyometrics, balance, strength, and agility drills. Coaching and medical staff provided details on injury incidence each week. Data analyses included the use of poisson regression analyses and the incidence rate ratio (IRR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). Results The intervention group experienced a significantly lower ankle sprain incidence rate (IRR = 0.26, 95% CI = 0.05, 0.98, p = 0.02) and a tendency toward a lower knee injury incidence rate (IRR = 0.32, 95% CI = 0.03, 1.78, p = 0.07) compared to the control group. Considering only non-contact lower-extremity injuries of any type, the intervention group experienced a significantly lower incidence rate compared to the control group (IRR = 0.26, 95% CI = 0.05, 0.98, p < 0.001). Conclusion This multi-team study demonstrated a novel multicomponent warm-up program resulted in less lower-extremity injuries, particularly ankle sprains and knee injuries, compared to a typical warm-up program in regional-level male and female basketball players.		[Stojanovic, Emilija; Jakovljevic, Vladimir] Univ Kragujevac, Fac Med Sci, Dept Physiol, Kragujevac, Serbia; [Stojanovic, Emilija; Faude, Oliver] Univ Basel, Dept Sport Exercise & Hlth, Basel, Switzerland; [Scanlan, Aaron Terrence] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Human Exercise & Training Lab, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Radovanovic, Dragan] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Nish, Serbia; [Jakovljevic, Vladimir] Moscow State Med Univ IM Sechenov, Dept Human Pathol, Moscow, Russia; [Stojanovic, Emilija] Univ Kragujevac, Fac Med Sci, Kragujevac 34000, Serbia								21							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000866374900001	62	Article; Article		
J	Schons, Pedro; Birk Preissler, Artur Avelino; Oliveira, Rafael; Brito, Joao Paulo; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; de Vargas, Guilherme Droescher; Klein, Lucas Moraes; Martins Kruel, Luiz Fernando								Comparisons and correlations between the anthropometric profile and physical performance of professional female and male soccer players: Individualities that should be considered in training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2004	2014		10.1177/17479541221131649			DEC 2023	2023	For male soccer players, the anthropometric profile and physical performance is already known but in women it is not well documented, the knowledge of these differences can qualify the training. Therefore, the aim of this study was two-fold: (i) to compare the anthropometric profile and physical fitness of Brazilian professional female and male soccer players; and (ii) analyze the relationships between anthropometric and physical fitness measures per sex. A cross-sectional study including 92 professional soccer players 44 women and 48 men was conducted. After one week of the end of the pre-season, the players from four different teams were assessed to anthropometric profile assessments and physical performance tests (e.g., jumping, linear sprint, change-of-direction and aerobic based test). Comparisons, correlation, and effect size analysis were performed between groups. Apart from the age and change-of-direction test, all other anthropometric and physical performance variables were significant different between women and men. Men were significantly faster than women in the 20 m linear sprint test (8.87%; p < .001; d = 2.382). The sum of skinfolds was correlated with some physical performance variables; however, body mass and body height were corrected with physical performance only for female soccer players. Thus, men performed better than women for most physical tests and presents differences in the anthropometric profile. Finally, coaches should consider that the anthropometric and performance profile are correlated differently between female and male soccer players. Thus, coaches should consider gender-specific parameters to create goals about the anthropometric and physical performance profile of players.		[Schons, Pedro; Birk Preissler, Artur Avelino; de Vargas, Guilherme Droescher] Fac SOGIPA, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Schons, Pedro; Birk Preissler, Artur Avelino; de Vargas, Guilherme Droescher; Klein, Lucas Moraes; Martins Kruel, Luiz Fernando] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Dance, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Oliveira, Rafael; Brito, Joao Paulo] Polytech Inst Santarem, Sports Sci Sch Rio Maior, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Oliveira, Rafael; Brito, Joao Paulo] Life Qual Res Ctr, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Oliveira, Rafael; Brito, Joao Paulo] Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Edificio Ciencias Desporto, Vila Real, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial NunAlvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Res Ctr Sports Performance Recreat Innovat & Tech, Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Delegacao Covilha, Lisbon, Portugal; [Schons, Pedro] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Exercise Res Lab, Rua Felizardo 750, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000867389700001	43	Article; Article		
J	Forcher, Leon; Preine, Leon; Forcher, Leander; Waesche, Hagen; Jekauc, Darko; Woll, Alexander; Gross, Timo; Altmann, Stefan								Shedding some light on in-game formation changes in the German Bundesliga: Frequency, contextual factors, and differences between offensive and defensive formations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2051	2060		10.1177/17479541221130054			DEC 2023	2023	The tactical formation is considered an important factor in soccer, however, changes in tactical formation during matches (in-game) and the distinction between offensive and defensive formations has rarely been considered in previous studies analyzing match performance. Therefore, objectives of this study were to investigate the following research questions: (i) How frequently do in-game formation changes occur? (ii) What contextual factors are associated with these changes? (iii) How often do defensive and offensive formations differ? The sample consisted of 81 matches (n = 162 single team cases) of the 2020/2021 German Bundesliga season. For each case, the starting formations (i.e. defensive and offensive) and in-game formation changes were recorded by observation of video data. For each in-game formation change, the contextual variables "point in time," "substitutions," and "goals" were recorded. In-game formation changes were found in 29.6% of the cases studied. Most in-game formation changes were discovered for the second half (95.2%), when the own team substituted at least one player (76.2%), and when the opposing team was leading the match (69.0%). In 25.3% of the investigated cases, the offensive and defensive formations of a team differed. Concluding, in-game formation changes are a relatively common phenomenon and, therefore, must be considered in the methodology of future research on tactical formation in soccer. The same applies to the distinction between offensive and defensive formation. Furthermore, coaches can use the findings to anticipate possible opposing team in-game formation changes earlier (e.g. in the second half, when the own team is leading and the opponent is substituting a player).		[Forcher, Leon; Preine, Leon; Forcher, Leander; Waesche, Hagen; Jekauc, Darko; Woll, Alexander; Altmann, Stefan] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Engler Bunte Ring 15, D-76131 Karlsruhe, Germany; [Forcher, Leon; Forcher, Leander; Gross, Timo] TSG 1899 Hoffenheim, Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Altmann, Stefan] TSG Res Lab gGmbH, Zuzenhausen, Germany; [Forcher, Leon] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Engler Bunte Ring 15, D-76131 Karlsruhe, Germany								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000867288600001	24	Article; Article		
J	Wing, Christopher; Hart, Nicolas H.; Ma'ayah, Fadi; Nosaka, Kazunori								Comparison of physical demands between matches and small-sided games in Australian Football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2061	2069		10.1177/17479541221129902			DEC 2023	2023	This study evaluated the physical demands and specificity of small-sided games (SSGs) compared to matches in Australian Football (AF). Global positioning system (GPS) data was collected on 48 AF players from 39 matches and 28 training sessions across two seasons. Match data was analysed using the ball in play (BiP) method with the maximum BiP period for each match (e.g. the BiP with greatest meters per minute), for each variable (relative distance, high-speed running, and accelerations) averaged for each player to establish maximal means as reference points. Intensity of all BiP periods in matches and SSGs was compared (e.g. a BiP period recorded at 100 m center dot min(-1) by a player with a maximal mean of 200 m center dot min(-1), was classified as a 50% effort). This was categorised in 10% intensity buckets, and compared between matches and SSGs using linear mixed models and Cohen's d effect sizes. Distance was greater (p < 0.01) in the 20-49% buckets for matches and in the 60-89% buckets (p < 0.001) for SSGs. For high-speed running and accelerations, matches were greater (p < 0.001) in the 0-9% bucket but SSGs were greater (p < 0.001) in buckets from 20 to 49%. At the individual level, 37-49% of the players did not record any SSGs efforts in buckets of >80 to >= 90% across GPS variables. SSGs appear to provide a sub-optimal training stimulus, if the aim is to prepare AF players for the highest intensity periods of play recorded during matches, thus may under-prepare players for the intensity demands of AF matches.		[Wing, Christopher; Hart, Nicolas H.; Nosaka, Kazunori] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Hart, Nicolas H.; Nosaka, Kazunori] Edith Cowan Univ, Exercise Med Res Inst, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Hart, Nicolas H.] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Inst Hlth Res, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Hart, Nicolas H.] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Ma'ayah, Fadi] Curtin Univ, Sch Educ, Bentley, WA, Australia; [Wing, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000867365900001	34	Article; Article		
J	Guinoubi, Sarah; Mouelhi-Guizani, Salma; Chtara, Mokhtar; Crespo, Miguel								Challenge-skills balance in international junior elite tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2125	2132		10.1177/17479541221129600			DEC 2023	2023	This study uses self-determination and flow theories as a theoretical framework to investigate the role of need for competence satisfaction (NCS) and autonomous motivation (AM) in balance between challenge and skills (BCS) and dispositional flow (DF) in international junior elite tennis players. A sample of 114 (62 girls and 52 boys) junior elite players (15.62 +/- 1.36 years) representing 24 countries competing in International Tennis Federation junior tournaments completed measures on the NCS using the Basic Needs Satisfaction in Sport Scale, AM with the Sport Motivation Scale and DF State scale to measure the BCS and their DF. Values of Cronbach alpha >.80 and the rho Joreskog coefficients were shown to be satisfactory and >0.89. The independent sample t-test analysis revealed no significant gender differences in any of them (p > .05). Simple regression analysis showed that there was a significant positive linear correlation between BCS and DF (r = .46; F = 29.31, p < .001). Multiple regression analysis indicated that AM and NCS explained 50.8% of the variance of BCS (F = 57.30, p < .001). Canonical correlation analysis indicated that a lack of NCS and AM was associated with a lack of DF and BCS. Wilks' lambda = .38, F = 34.11, p < .001, accounted for 99% (r(c) = .79) of the overlapping variance. It can be concluded that NCS and AM contribute effectively to the BCS and then to DF in the sample studied.		[Guinoubi, Sarah; Mouelhi-Guizani, Salma] Univ La Manouba, ISSEP, Tunis, Tunisia; [Guinoubi, Sarah; Chtara, Mokhtar] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Tunisian Res Lab, Sport Performance Optimizat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Mouelhi-Guizani, Salma] Tunisian Tennis Federat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dev Dept, London, England; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Bank Lane, London SW15 5XZ, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000867299600001	57	Article; Article		
J	Rodriguez-Fernandez, Alejandro; Rodriguez-Marroyo, Jose A.; Vaquera, Alejandro; Villa Vicente, Jose G.; Clemente, Filipe M.								Effects of a short-term in-season break on repeated-sprint ability, jump height and locomotor performance in small-sided games in female soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2025	2032		10.1177/17479541221131932			DEC 2023	2023	The current study aimed to analyse the effects of an in-season break period (2-week) on specific performance in amateur young female soccer players. Twelve female soccer players completed four assessment sessions, two before (BD-d1 and BD-d2) and two after (AD-d1 and AD-d2) a 2-week in-season break detraining period (both separated by 24 h). In each session, players completed a repeated sprint ability test (repeated sprint ability = 8 sprints of 30 m with 25 s of recovery), a countermovement jump test and locomotor performance in small-sided games (small-sided games = 3 sets of 5 min in a 5 vs. 5). Players exhibited a significant decrease in mean of repeated sprint ability (mean time of 8 sprints, p = 0.000, effect size = 2.04) and countermovement jump (p = 0.009, effect size = 1.39) performance between BD-d1 and AD-d1. The percentage of change between BD-d1 and BD-d2 from AD-d1 and AD-d2 shows significant differences (p = 0.05, effect size = 1.12) in best of repeated sprint ability (best time of 8 sprints) but not (p = 0.517, effect size = 0.31) in mean of repeated sprint ability. Significantly less high-intensity acceleration was performed in BD-d2 and AD-d2 from BD-d1 (p = 0.003, effect size = 3.21 and p = 0.002, effect size = 3.25, respectively). Only a 2-week in-season break inactivity was sufficient to decrease mean of repeated sprint ability and countermovement jump performance but not the best of repeated sprint ability. Therefore, it is necessary to apply specific training strategies to prevent decreases in performance in female soccer players in specific periods of the season.		[Rodriguez-Fernandez, Alejandro; Rodriguez-Marroyo, Jose A.; Vaquera, Alejandro; Villa Vicente, Jose G.] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sport, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, VALFIS Res Grp, Leon, Spain; [Clemente, Filipe M.] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe M.] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Lisbon, Portugal; [Rodriguez-Marroyo, Jose A.] Univ Lean, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, VALFIS Res Grp, Lean 24071, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000867354500001	46	Article; Article		
J	Shinde, Takuto; Saito, A.; Okada, K.; Wakasa, M.; Kimoto, M.; Kamada, T.; Shibata, K.; Okura, K.; Sato, H.; Takahashi, Y.								Influence of lower extremity rotation on knee kinematics in single-leg landing								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				87	92		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.10.002			NOV 2022	2022	Objectives: Although the rotation of lower extremities has gained increasing recognition as a risk factor for anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury. This study clarified the influence of lower extremity rotation on the knee during single-leg landing.Design and Setting: We recruited 30 students to perform single -leg landing from a height of 30 cm with their lower extremities in neutral, and externally and internally rotated. The knee abduction, flexion angles, and abduction angular velocity were measured. Further-more, the abduction angle was analyzed at knee flexion angles of 15 degrees, 20 degrees, 25 degrees, and 30 degrees and compared among the three conditions using a repeated measures analysis of variance with Bonferroni post hoc tests.Results: The maximum abduction angle was significantly greater when internally rotated than in the neutral. The maximum abduction angular velocity was significantly greater in the internally rotated compared to in the neutral. Finally, the abduction angle at a knee flexion angle of 30 degrees was significantly greater when internally rotated compared to in the neutral.Conclusion: Rotation of the lower extremities affects knee kinematics, and landing on a knee that is internally rotated may increase the risk of ACL injury.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Shinde, Takuto; Shibata, K.] Akita City Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Akita, Japan; [Saito, A.; Okada, K.; Wakasa, M.; Kimoto, M.] Akita Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Akita, Japan; [Sato, H.] Akita Kousei Med Ctr, Dept Rehabil, Akita, Japan; [Okura, K.; Takahashi, Y.] Akita Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Akita, Japan; [Kamada, T.] Noshiro Kousei Med Ctr, Dept Rehabil, Akita, Japan; [Shinde, Takuto] Akita City Hosp, 4-30 Kawamoto, Akita, Akita 0100933, Japan								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900011	28	Article; Article		
J	Miltko, Adriana; Milner, Clare E.; Powell, Douglas W.; Paquette, Max R.								The influence of surface and speed on biomechanical external loads obtained from wearable devices in rearfoot strike runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2129089				2022	External load variables such as peak tibial acceleration (PTA), peak vertical ground reaction forces (GRF) and its instantaneous vertical loading rate (IVLR) may contribute to running injuries although evidence is conflicting given the influence of training load and tissue health on injuries. These variables are influenced by footwear, speed, surface and foot strike pattern during running. The purpose of this study was to assess the influence of four surfaces and two running speeds on external load variables in rearfoot strike (RFS) runners. Twelve RFS runners (confirmed with sagittal foot contact angle) completed a 2-min running bout on a treadmill and 50-m running bouts over the three surfaces (pavement, rubber track and grass) in standardised shoes at their preferred speed and 20% faster. PTA and vertical GRFs were collected using inertial measurement units and in-shoe force insoles. No interaction or surface effects were observed (p > 0.017). The faster speed produced greater axial PTA (+19.2%; p < 0.001), resultant PTA (+20.7%; p < 0.001), peak vertical GRF (+6.6%; p = 0.002) and IVLR (+16.5%; p < 0.001). These findings suggest that surface type does not influence PTA, peak vertical GRF and IVLR but that running faster increases the magnitude of these external loads regardless of surface type in RFS runners.		[Miltko, Adriana; Powell, Douglas W.; Paquette, Max R.] Univ Memphis, Coll Hlth Sci, Memphis, TN 38152 USA; [Milner, Clare E.] Drexel Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Paquette, Max R.] Univ Memphis, Coll Hlth Sci, Memphis, TN 38152 USA								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000866066500001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhou, Zheng; Zhang, Hui								A Visible Analysis Approach for Table Tennis Tactical Benefit								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			517	527		10.52082/jssm.2022.517			DEC 2022	2022	Tactics are one of the winning factors in table tennis matches because they can reflect the technical strength and strategies of players. However, the current evaluation method of tactics is relatively simple, and it can be difficult to distinguish the pros and cons of different tactics. To solve these issues, this study used information from 60 matches played by top-25 men's right-handed shake-hand offensive players as samples and proposed a tactical benefit algorithm and a visible evaluation model to analyse tactical performance. The model could help coaches and players find meaningful tactics quickly and easily and make reasonable comparisons between them. The results showed that 1) the numbers of tactics based on the tactical association-mining model and the L-shaped curve were 37 in the first six strokes. Among them, there were 9 selected tactics in the first to third strokes, the third to fifth strokes, and the second to fourth strokes, respectively, and 10 selected tactics in the fourth to sixth strokes. 2) The visible evaluation model of tactical benefit can determine the difference between the frequency, scoring rate, and benefit of different tactics as mapped into the model as well as quickly and effectively discover the distribution of tactics and measure the advantages and disadvantages of tactics from multiple dimensions.		[Zhou, Zheng; Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Hangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Zheng] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Hangzhou, Peoples R China								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000870597600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Ozawa, Yu; Yamada, Hiroshi; Ozawa, Shoh; Vogt, Tobias; Kanosue, Kazuyuki								Biomechanical analysis of distance adjustment in volleyball overhead pass								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2125427				2022	In volleyball, the overhead pass is important. Coaches usually teach players to push the ball, utilising the legs, especially for a long distance pass. The purpose of this study was to conduct a biomechanical analysis of an overhead pass to different distances. Twelve male elite volleyball players participated. They were told to pass a ball with an overhead pass through a 2.43 m high ring located 3 m, 6 m, and 9 m in front of them. Twenty-four reflective markers were placed on the ball and the subject's body to obtain joint centres, joint angles, and ball position. EMG activities were recorded from four right arm muscles. Triceps brachii and flexor carpi radialis pull and push phase activities differed significantly between 3 m and 6 m, but not between 6 m and 9 m. On the other hand, leg movements were significantly different among 3 m, 6 m, and 9 m, suggesting that leg movements supplement the power given to the ball. Thus, as the distance to a target lengthens in an overhead pass, not only arm movement but also leg movement is required.		[Ozawa, Yu] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Yamada, Hiroshi] Tokai Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Hiratsuka, Kanagawa, Japan; [Ozawa, Shoh] Tokai Univ, Dept Competit Sports, Hiratsuka, Kanagawa, Japan; [Vogt, Tobias] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Profess Sport Educ & Sport Qualificat, Cologne, Germany; [Kanosue, Kazuyuki] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Kanosue, Kazuyuki] Juntendo Univ, Inst Hlth & Sports Sci & Med, Chiba, Japan; [Ozawa, Yu] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000865355700001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Boonchum, Hataitip; Sinsurin, Komsak; Kunanusornchai, Wanlop; Richards, Jim; Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee								The effect of a home-based stretching exercise on the ground reaction force generation and absorption during walking in individuals with plantar fasciitis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				58	67		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.09.006			NOV 2022	2022	Objectives: This study aimed to investigate effect of a home-based stretching exercise program in in-dividuals with plantar fasciitis (PF) and to compare its effect on ground reaction force (GRF)-time vari-ables between mild, moderate, and severe pain subgroups and between before and after in each subgroup.Design: A single cohort with pre-and post-test.Interventions: Twenty individuals with PF received 3 weeks of home-based stretching exercise for calf and plantar fascia.Main outcome measures: GRF-time variables included force and time at; first peak (F1 and TF1), valley (F2 and TF2), second peak (F3 and TF3) in vertical, breaking (F4 and TF4) and propulsive (F5 and TF5) forces, first peak (F6 and TF6) and second peak lateral (F7 and TF7) forces. Additionally, worst pain was assessed at before and after exercise.Results: Significant reductions were seen in F2, TF2, TF3, TF5 and worst pain after exercise (P < 0.05) in individuals with PF. No differences were seen between three subgroups. For within subgroup analysis, only mild subgroup showed significant changes in F2, TF2, F4, TF6, and TF7 after exercise (P < 0.05).Conclusion: A home-based stretching exercise was effective in reducing pain and some GRF-time vari-ables, with the most noticeable response seen in mild subgroup.Crown Copyright (c) 2022 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Boonchum, Hataitip; Sinsurin, Komsak; Kunanusornchai, Wanlop; Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Richards, Jim] Univ Cent Lancashire, Allied Hlth Res Unit, Preston, England; [Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee] Mahidol Univ, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Rd, Salaya 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee] Mahidol Univ, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Rd, Salaya 73170, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900007	37	Article; Article		
J	Kawama, Raki; Ike, Akira; Soma, Ai; Hojo, Tatsuya; Wakahara, Taku								Side-To-Side Difference in Electromyographic Activity of Abdominal Muscles during Asymmetric Exercises								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			493	503		10.52082/jssm.2022.493			DEC 2022	2022	A side-to-side difference in the muscle size of the rectus abdom-inis has been suggested to increase the strain injury risk. Attenu-ating the difference in size of the rectus abdominis may decrease the injury risk. To explore ways to highly activate one side of the rectus abdominis, we aimed to clarify the activity levels of both sides of the muscle during asymmetric abdominal exercises. Fif-teen male sprinters performed the following five asymmetric ex-ercises for the right and left sides: (i) sit-up twist, (ii) oblique leg raise, (iii) side bridge, (iv) side bridge roll out with the elbow, and (v) side bridge roll out with the foot. Side bridge roll out with the elbow and that with the foot were performed using a wheeled plat-form. During the exercises, electromyographic signals were rec-orded bilaterally from the upper, central, and lower portions of the rectus abdominis. We calculated the root mean square of elec-tromyograms during the concentric and eccentric phases of the exercises and normalized to that during maximal voluntary con-tractions. In all portions of the rectus abdominis, the root mean squares of electromyograms were significantly higher in the mov-ing side than in the non-moving side during the concentric and eccentric phases of the side bridge, the side bridge roll out with the elbow and that with the foot (all p < 0.01), but not in sit-up twist or oblique leg raise. The root mean squares of electromyo-grams of all portions of the rectus abdominis in the moving side were significantly higher in the side bridge roll out with the elbow and that with the foot than in the side bridge during both phases (all p < 0.01). The results suggest that the application of the wheeled platform to side bridge is useful to highly activate one side of the rectus abdominis.		[Kawama, Raki; Hojo, Tatsuya] Doshisha Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Kawama, Raki] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Ike, Akira; Soma, Ai; Hojo, Tatsuya; Wakahara, Taku] Doshisha Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Wakahara, Taku] Waseda Univ, Human Performance Lab, Saitama, Japan; [Wakahara, Taku] Doshisha Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-3 Tatara Miyakodani, Kyotanabe, Kyoto 6100394, Japan; [Wakahara, Taku] Doshisha Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-3 Tatara Miyakodani, Kyotanabe, Kyoto 6100394, Japan								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000869678200001	22	Article; Article		
J	Gruber, A. H.; Warne, J. P.; Hamill, J.								Isolated effects of footwear structure and cushioning on running mechanics in habitual mid/forefoot runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	3			422	441		10.1080/14763141.2022.2129088			MAR 4 2023	2023	The true differences between barefoot and shod running are difficult to directly compare because of the concomitant change to a mid/forefoot footfall pattern that typically occurs during barefoot running. The purpose of this study was to compare isolated effects of footwear structure and cushioning on running mechanics in habitual mid/forefoot runners running shod (SHOD), barefoot (BF), and barefoot on a foam surface (BF+FOAM). Ten habitually shod mid/forefoot runners were recruited (male = 8, female = 2). Repeated measures ANOVA (alpha = 0.05) revealed differences between conditions for only vertical peak active force, contact time, negative and total ankle joint work, and peak dorsiflexion angle. Post hoc tests revealed that BF+FOAM resulted in smaller vertical active peak magnitude and instantaneous vertical loading rate than SHOD. SHOD resulted in lower total ankle joint work than BF and BF+FOAM. BF+FOAM resulted in lower negative ankle joint work than either BF or SHOD. Contact time was shorter with BF than BF+FOAM or SHOD. Peak dorsiflexion angle was smaller in SHOD than BF. No other differences in sagittal joint kinematics, kinetics, or ground reaction forces were observed. These overall similarities in running mechanics between SHOD and BF+FOAM question the effects of footwear structure on habituated mid/forefoot running described previously.		[Gruber, A. H.] Indiana Univ, HH Morris Human Performance Labs, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Warne, J. P.] Technol Univ Dublin, Dept Appl Sci, Tallaght Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Warne, J. P.] Thurles Chamber Commerce, Setanta Coll, Tipperary, Ireland; [Hamill, J.] Univ Massachusetts, Sch Publ Hlth & Hlth Sci, Dept Kinesiol, Biomech Lab, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Gruber, A. H.] Indiana Univ, HH Morris Human Performance Labs, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000864776100001	66	Article; Article		
J	Teece, Angus R.; Beaven, Martyn; Argus, Christos K.; Gill, Nicholas; Driller, Matthew W.								Characterization of differences in sleep behaviors between academy, semi-professional and professional levels of competition in rugby union athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2091	2098		10.1177/17479541221127516			DEC 2023	2023	Athletes display differing sleep habits to non-athletic populations; similarly, differences occur in sleep habits between athletes from different sports. There is currently limited research investigating the differences in sleep habits and behaviors between different levels of competition within the same sport. A total of 224 rugby union athletes (109 academy, 38 semi-professional, 84 professional) completed the Athlete Sleep Behavior Questionnaire and the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. Professional athletes displayed a significantly longer self-reported sleep duration compared to semi-professional and academy athletes (7 h 52 min +/- 51 min vs. 7 h 16 min +/- 1 h 15 min vs. 7 h 19 min +/- 1 h 12 min, p < 0.01). Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index global scores revealed a significantly lower (p = 0.04, d = 0.3) score for professional athletes (5.2 +/- 2.5 AU) than academy athletes (6.0 +/- 2.7 AU). Individual components of the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index revealed significant differences (p < 0.05) between groups for sleep duration and daytime dysfunction. No significant differences (p > 0.05) were observed between levels of competition for the Athlete Sleep Behavior Questionnaire global score; however, significant differences (p < 0.05) were observed for 6 of the 18 items. This study was the first to investigate sleep behaviors across multiple levels of competition in rugby union athletes. Professional athletes displayed longer sleep duration compared to semi-professional and academy level athletes. Additionally, results highlighted that differences exist between levels of competition for specific sleep behaviors. This study identified that sleep behaviors could be improved for all levels of rugby union athletes.		[Teece, Angus R.; Beaven, Martyn; Gill, Nicholas] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Teece, Angus R.; Argus, Christos K.] Chiefs Rugby Club, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Gill, Nicholas] New Zealand Rugby, Wellington, New Zealand; [Driller, Matthew W.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Teece, Angus R.] Univ Waikato, Gate One,Knighton Rd, Hamilton, New Zealand								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000863471600001	51	Article; Article		
J	Taylor, Jonathan M.; Madden, Jonathan L.; Cunningham, Louis P.; Wright, Matthew								Fitness Testing in Soccer Revisited: Developing a Contemporary Testing Battery								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	5			10	21		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000702			OCT 2022	2022	Soccer match play dictates that players possess well-rounded physical capacities. Therefore, player physical development plans must consider developing several fitness components simultaneously. Effective individualization of training is likely facilitated with appropriate player profiling; therefore, developing a time-efficient and informative testing battery is highly relevant for practitioners. Advances in knowledge and technology over the past decade have resulted in refinements of the testing practices used by practitioners working in professional male and female soccer. Consequently, a contemporary approach to test selection and data analysis has progressively been adopted. Furthermore, the traditional approach of using a testing battery in a single day may now be outdated for full-time players, with a flexible approach to the scheduling of testing perhaps more suitable and time efficient. Here, guidance on testing for maximal aerobic, submaximal aerobic, linear and change of direction speed, and stretch-shortening cycle performance (i.e., jump testing) are presented for male and female players, with emphasis on time-efficient tests, while facilitating effective individualized training prescription. Normative and meaningful change data are presented to aid decision making and provide a reference point for practitioners. Finally, a time-efficient approach to scheduling fitness testing is presented, which complements daily training outcomes of a weekly periodization approach.		[Taylor, Jonathan M.; Wright, Matthew] Univ Teesside, Dept Sci Sport & Exercise, Middlesbrough, Cleveland, England; [Madden, Jonathan L.] Leeds United Football Club, Acad Phys Dev Dept, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Cunningham, Louis P.] Norwich City Football Club, Phys Performance Dept, Norwich, Norfolk, England; [Taylor, Jonathan M.] Univ Teesside, Dept Sci Sport & Exercise, Middlesbrough, Cleveland, England								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000862469200002	101	Article; Article		
J	Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Haff, G. Gregory; Guppy, Stuart N.; Kendall, Kristina L.								Practical Application of Traditional and Cluster Set Configurations Within a Resistance Training Program								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	5			87	101		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000700			OCT 2022	2022	Altering set configurations during a resistance training program can provide a novel training variation that can be used to modify the external and internal training loads that induce specific training outcomes. To design training programs that better target the defined goal(s) of a specific training phase, strength and conditioning professionals need to better understand how different set configurations affect the training adaptations that result from resistance training. Traditional and cluster set structures are commonly implemented by strength and conditioning professionals as part of an athlete's resistance training program. The purpose of this review is to offer examples of the practical implementation of traditional and cluster sets that can be integrated into a periodized resistance training program.		[Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Haff, G. Gregory; Guppy, Stuart N.; Kendall, Kristina L.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, Lancs, England; [Nagatani, Tsuyoshi] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000862469200007	139	Article; Article		
J	Dos'Santos, Thomas; McBurnie, Alistair; Thomas, Christopher; Jones, Paul A.; Harper, Damian								Attacking Agility Actions: Match Play Contextual Applications With Coaching and Technique Guidelines								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	5			102	118		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000697			OCT 2022	2022	Attacking agility actions, such as side steps, shuffle steps, crossover cutting, split steps, spins, decelerations, and sharp turns, are important maneuvers in invasion team sports, often linked with decisive match winning moments. Generally, the aims of these actions are to (a) evade and create separation from an opponent, (b) generate high exit velocities and momentums, or (c) facilitate a sharp redirection. However, these actions are also inciting movements associated with lower-limb injury. Given the importance of agility actions for sports performance and potential injury risk, in this review, we discuss the importance and contextual applications of attacking agility actions, while providing coaching and technique guidelines to best optimize the performance-injury risk conflict.		[Dos'Santos, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med Res Ctr, Manchester, Lancs, England; [McBurnie, Alistair] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Football Med & Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Thomas, Christopher; Jones, Paul A.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Lancs, England; [Harper, Damian] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Preston, Lancs, England; [Dos'Santos, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med Res Ctr, Manchester, Lancs, England								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000862469200008	104	Article; Article		
J	Leuermann, Erik; Eils, Eric								Jumping on sand surfaces redistributes loading of the plantar surface to midfoot areas and reduces peak loading								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2126795				2022	The purpose was to assess plantar mechanical loading on different surface conditions when performing jumps. Twenty subjects performed standardized drop jumps and countermovement jumps both in shoes and barefoot on a rigid surface and barefoot on a sand surface. Flexible insoles of the Pedar Mobile system (PedarX, Novel GmbH) were used for data collection. The foot was subdivided into eight regions where peak pressures and relative loads were derived. Significant differences were found for several foot areas for both, countermovement and drop jumps. For the sand surface, as compared to the rigid surface, peak pressures were significantly reduced in the hallux&2(nd) toe, medial/lateral forefoot, and heel but were increased in the medial/lateral midfoot. The relative load shifted significantly from the forefoot to the midfoot area. Substantially different plantar pressure distribution patterns between conditions were observed in jumping. The switch from a rigid to a sand surface is associated with a lower mechanical loading, whereas switching back from sand to an indoor surface potentially increases this loading. Our results show that the observed pressure distribution patterns for different surfaces align with other tasks like playing soccer/running, are in a typical range for these sports and entail a comparable mechanical loading.		[Leuermann, Erik; Eils, Eric] Univ Munster, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Munster, Germany; [Eils, Eric] Univ Munster, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Munster, Germany								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000863488000001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Zhi, Lei; Miyamoto, Naokazu; Naito, Hisashi								Passive Muscle Stiffness of Biceps Femoris is Acutely Reduced after Eccentric Knee Flexion								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	4			487	492		10.52082/jssm.2022.487			DEC 2022	2022	Eccentric hamstring exercises reportedly prevent hamstring strain injury in the biceps femoris long head (BFlh). However, information on the favorable adaptive responses in the BFlh to eccentric hamstring exercises is limited. We aimed to examine the acute effect of maximal isokinetic eccentric knee flexion on passive BFlh stiffness as a potential risk factor for the hamstring strain injury using ultrasound shear wave elastography. Ten young participants randomly performed both tasks involving five consecutive repetitions of isokinetic concentric and eccentric knee flexion with maximal effort on different legs. Passive BFlh shear modulus was taken before and 30, 60, 90, and 120 s after each task. Passive BFlh shear modulus was significantly reduced at all time points after eccentric knee flexion, whereas there was no significant change in passive BFlh shear modulus after the concentric task. The present findings indicate that passive BFlh stiffness would reduce specifically after low-volume, slow-velocity eccentric knee flexion exercise. The findings may help provide practitioners with a basis to develop more effective exercise programs for preventing HSI.		[Zhi, Lei; Miyamoto, Naokazu; Naito, Hisashi] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Inzai, Japan; [Miyamoto, Naokazu] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci & Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Naito, Hisashi] Juntendo Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport Sci & Med, Inzai, Japan; [Miyamoto, Naokazu] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-1 Hiraka Gakuendai, Inzai, Chiba 2701695, Japan								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000860569500001	43	Article; Article		
J	Ozcan, Fatma; Gurcay, Eda								Is the information about lateral epicondylitis on the YouTube platform reliable and of good quality?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	5			458	462		10.1080/00913847.2022.2129504			SEP 3 2023	2023	Objectives This study aimed to investigate the quality and reliability of YouTube videos, as a source of lateral epicondylitis (LE). Methods In this cross-sectional study, 484 videos were analyzed by searching the YouTube platform with the keyword 'lateral epicondylitis.' Journal of the Medical Association (JAMA) benchmark criteria, modified DISCERN and Global Quality Scale (GQS) were used for quality and reliability assessments. Results A total of 298 videos were evaluated. High quality (GQS 4-5) was identified in 74 videos (24.8%), intermediate quality (GQS 3) in 84 videos (28.2%), and low quality (GQS 1-2) in 140 videos (47%). Of the videos, 57.7% (n = 41) uploaded by physician were of high quality. A significant difference was found between the low-intermediate-high-quality groups in terms of duration, number of views, number of likes, number of comments, likes per day, comments per day, video view ratio, JAMA score and modified DISCERN score (all p < 0.01). In videos uploaded by physicians; views, time since uploaded, JAMA score, modified DISCERN score, and GQS score were significantly higher than videos shared by trainers, health-related web sites, and independent users. The duration and viewing rates of the videos, the number of views, likes, comments, likes per day and comments per day were found to be significantly associated with JAMA, modified DISCERN, and GQS scores (p < 0.01). Conclusion About half of YouTube videos for LE were low quality. Most of the high-quality videos have been shared by physicians and these videos have been longer, more viewed, more liked and commented, and more reliable. Healthcare professionals should provide high-quality, unbiased, accurate and instructive information that is accessible to everyone on the YouTube platform.		[Ozcan, Fatma; Gurcay, Eda] Univ Hlth Sci, Gaziler Phys & Rehabil Med Training & Res Hosp, Bilkent, Turkey; [Ozcan, Fatma] Gaziler Phys & Rehabil Med Training & Res Hosp, TR-06800 Bilkent, Turkey								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000861971300001	25	Article; Article		
J	Dobashi, Kohei; Ichinose, Masashi; Fujii, Naoto; Fujimoto, Tomomi; Nishiyasu, Takeshi								Effects of Pre-Exercise Voluntary Hyperventilation on Metabolic and Cardiovascular Responses During and After Intense Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1141	1152		10.1080/02701367.2022.2121371			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: We investigated the effects of pre-exercise voluntary hyperventilation and the resultant hypocapnia on metabolic and cardiovascular responses during and after high-intensity exercise. Methods: Ten healthy participants performed a 60-s cycling exercise at a workload of 120% peak oxygen uptake in control (spontaneous breathing), hypocapnia and normocapnia trials. Hypocapnia was induced through 20-min pre-exercise voluntary hyperventilation. In the normocapnia trial, voluntary hyperpnea was performed with CO2 inhalation to prevent hypocapnia. Results: Pre-exercise end-tidal CO2 partial pressure was lower in the hypocapnia trial than the control or normocapnia trial, with similar levels in the control and normocapnia trials. Average (V) over dotO(2) during the entire exercise was lower in both the hypocapnia and normocapnia trials than in the control trial (1491 +/- 252vs.1662 +/- 169vs.1806 +/- 149 mL min(-1)), with the hypocapnia trial exhibiting a greater reduction than the normocapnia trial. Minute ventilation during exercise was lower in the hypocapnia trial than the normocapnia trial. In addition, minute ventilation during the first 10s of the exercise was lower in the normocapnia than the control trial. Pre-exercise hypocapnia also reduced heart rates and arterial blood pressures during the exercise relative to the normocapnia trial, a response that lasted through the subsequent early recovery periods, though end-tidal CO2 partial pressure was similar in the two trials. Conclusions: Our results suggest that preexercise hyperpnea and the resultant hypocapnia reduce (V) over dotO(2) during high-intensity exercise. Moreover, hypocapnia may contribute to voluntary hyperventilation-mediated cardiovascular responses during the exercise, and this response can persist into the subsequent recovery period, despite the return of arterial CO2 pressure to the normocapnic level.		[Dobashi, Kohei; Fujii, Naoto; Fujimoto, Tomomi; Nishiyasu, Takeshi] Univ Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Dobashi, Kohei] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Dobashi, Kohei] Hokkaido Univ, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Ichinose, Masashi] Meiji Univ, Tokyo, Japan; [Fujimoto, Tomomi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Niigata, Japan; [Nishiyasu, Takeshi] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058574, Japan								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000861280700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Shibata, Shohei; Kaneko, Yasunori; Shimana, Takatsugu; Yamada, Yuki; Kase, Yuto; Nakata, Saneyuki; Inamo, Masaya; Kageyama, Masahiro								Estimation of tangential finger force and its relationship with the spin rate of pitched fastball								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2125823				2022	This study had two objectives: (a) estimating the force exerted by pitchers in generating the spin of a fastball and (b) examining the factors that influence the spin rate of a fastball. Thirteen baseball pitchers participated in this study. The resultant forces acting on the ball was measured using an accelerometer placed in the baseball, and the force was decomposed into two frequency components using maximal overlap discrete wavelet transform. The intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) between the integration of the high-frequency component of acceleration and the variation in the tangential velocity was high (ICC(3,1) = 0.64 +/- 0.16). The ball spin per velocity (SPV) was significantly correlated with the peak value of the high-frequency component of the resultant forces (r = 0.66, p < 0.01). The high-frequency component of the resultant forces reflected the force in the tangential direction, and this force was one of the factors that adjusted the ball spin rate. The SPV did not significantly correlate with the peak value of the low-frequency component of the resultant forces (r = 0.50, p > 0.05). This indicates that decomposing the resultant forces into two frequency components is necessary to investigate the function of the finger during pitching.		[Shibata, Shohei; Kaneko, Yasunori; Shimana, Takatsugu; Kase, Yuto; Inamo, Masaya] Mizuno Corp, Global Res & Dev Dept, Osaka, Japan; [Shibata, Shohei; Yamada, Yuki; Nakata, Saneyuki] Mizuno Corp, Global Equipment Prod Dept, Osaka, Japan; [Kageyama, Masahiro] Japan High Performance Sport Ctr, Japan Inst Sport Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Kageyama, Masahiro] Hosei Univ, Liberal Arts Ctr, Tokyo, Japan; [Shibata, Shohei] Mizuno Corp, Global Res & Dev Dept, Osaka, Japan; [Shibata, Shohei] Mizuno Corp, Global Equipment Prod Dept, Osaka, Japan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000861963100001	20	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fenemor, S. P.; Gill, N. D.; Driller, M. W.; Mills, B.; Sella, F.; Beaven, C. M.								Small Performance Effects of a Practical Mixed-Methods Cooling Strategy in Elite Team Sport Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1162	1168		10.1080/02701367.2022.2125158			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: The ingestion of ice slurry and application of ice towels can elicit favorable physiological, perceptual, and performance benefits when used individually; however, the combined use and effectiveness of these practical cooling strategies have not been assessed using a sport-specific performance test, based on actual match demands, in an elite team sport context. Methods: Ten non-heat acclimated elite male rugby sevens athletes undertook two cycling heat response tests (HRT) designed to be specific to the demands of rugby sevens in hot conditions (35 degrees C, 80% rH). In a crossover design, the HRTs were conducted with (COOLING) and without (HOT) the combined use of internal (ice slushy ingestion) and external (application of ice towels to the head, neck, and face) pre- and per-cooling strategies. Physiological, perceptual, and performance variables were monitored throughout each HRT. Results: COOLING resulted in reductions in mean tympanic temperature (-0.4 +/- 0.2 degrees C; d = 1.18); mean heart rate (-5 +/- 8 bpm; d = 0.53); thermal discomfort (-0.5 +/- 0.9 AU; d = 0.48); and thirst sensation (-1.0 +/- 1.1 AU; d = 0.61) during the HRT. COOLING also resulted in a small increase in 4-min time trial power output (by 7 +/- 33 W, similar to 3%; d = 0.35) compared to HOT. Discussion: A combination of internal and external pre- and per-cooling strategies can result in a range of small physiological, perceptual, and performance benefits during a rugby sevens specific HRT, compared to undertaking no cooling. Practitioners should include such strategies when performing in hot conditions.		[Fenemor, S. P.; Gill, N. D.; Sella, F.; Beaven, C. M.] Univ Waikato, Adams Ctr High Performance, Mt Maunganui, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Fenemor, S. P.] High Performance Sport New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Gill, N. D.; Mills, B.] New Zealand Rugby Union, Wellington, New Zealand; [Driller, M. W.] La Trobe Univ, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Fenemor, S. P.] Univ Waikato, Fac Hlth Sport & Human Performance, Adams Ctr High Performance, 52 Miro St, Mt Maunganui, Tauranga, New Zealand								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000860688100001	45	Article; Article		
J	Stock, Holly A.; Wilson, Cassie; van Emmerik, Richard E. A.; Preatoni, Ezio								Angular dynamics in vector coding: a new approach based on angular velocity								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2123384				2022	The assessment of coordination variability in multi-joint human movements has traditionally started from angle-angle representations, and then used the angle change between subsequent time points as input for further analysis through vector coding. We propose an improvement to this approach, and suggest employing angular velocities as input data (Velocity Ellipse Method, VEM). We used experimental data and theoretical principles to contrast VEM with an existing standard (Difference Ellipse Method) and discuss its advantages and potential issues. Normalised cross-correlation was used to compare VEM and DEM in 36 angle couplings, from 20 participants running at 12 km/h on a treadmill. The hip flexion/extension-knee flexion/extension data were further investigated to discuss the robustness of the approach to measurement noise and outliers. Although DEM and VEM generally exhibited similar patterns (cross-correlation between 0.851 and 0.999), the variability curves from the two methods were noticeably different in some intervals. Also, using angular velocities as input appeared more robust to potential noise from raw data whilst retaining the following features: (a) more coherent with biomechanical conventions for calculating three-dimensional angular dynamics; (b) still suitable for coordination analysis; and, (c) more easily interpretable by practitioners when represented as relative motion plots.		[Stock, Holly A.; Wilson, Cassie; Preatoni, Ezio] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [van Emmerik, Richard E. A.] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Kinesiol, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Preatoni, Ezio] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000860546600001	26	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Lopes, Tiago; Simbana-Escobar, David; Marinho, Daniel A.								Race analysis of the men's 50 m events at the 2021 LEN European Championships								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2125430				2022	The aim of this study was to: (i) characterise the stroke kinematics' stability of the male swimmers competing in the four 50 m events at the 2021 European Championships, and; (ii) understand the speed-time relationship in the four race events. All male swimmers who participated in the 50 m events (backstroke: 78 swimmers; breaststroke: 79 swimmers; butterfly: 89 swimmers; freestyle: 95 swimmers) were evaluated. In each swimming stroke swimmers were split in two groups (better and poorer performances). Significant variances (p < 0.05) were observed in both groups in all variables and for all swimming strokes. Swimming speed was the variable with the highest variance in both groups and strokes. Overall, better swimmers presented a low to high normative stability, and poorer swimmers a moderate-to-high. Speed-time curve fitting for all swimming strokes and groups suggested a cubic relationship. It can be considered that elite male swimmers racing 50 m sprint events at major competitions present an all-out trend. The present data provide coaches with substantial information about the main trend in the 50 m sprint events, specifically in each section of the race.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Lopes, Tiago; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Simbana-Escobar, David] Univ Rouen Normandie, Fac Sport Sci, Ctr Study & Transformat Phys Act CETAPS, UNIROUEN, Rouen, France; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000860538300001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hill, Megan; John, Thomas; McGee, Darragh; Cumming, Sean P.								'He's got growth': Coaches understanding and management of the growth spurt in male academy football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			24	37		10.1177/17479541221122415			FEB 2023	2023	The majority of studies investigating maturation in football have focused on the impact of maturity status or timing upon athletic performance. There is comparatively little research investigating the impact of the adolescent growth spurt, and few research articles that have focussed on injury incidence and burden rather than performance. The aim of this study was to explore and better understand how the adolescent growth spurt impacts youth football players within professional academies. This longitudinal mixed-methods study aimed to understand youth football coaches' perceptions, experiences, and management of male adolescent football players. Players' maturity status, growth velocities, and match performance were measured and interviews with coaches were conducted in parallel. The qualitative and quantitative data were combined to generate a deeper contextualised understanding. This study revealed that academy football coaches describe adolescent growth as a 'condition'; players are diagnosed with growth through perceived signs and symptoms, which coaches must manage and treat. Growth was also seen to impact coaches' perceptions and therefore had implications for selection and release decisions. The findings from this study emphasise the complexities of experiencing and managing adolescent growth and maturation in the context of elite youth football.		[Hill, Megan] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, W Yorkshire, England; [Hill, Megan; McGee, Darragh; Cumming, Sean P.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [John, Thomas] Southampton Football Club, Dept Sports Sci & Med, Southampton, Hants, England; [Hill, Megan] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, W Yorkshire, England								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000860129400001	72	Article; Article		
J	Greenberg, Elliot; Butler, Lauren; Giampetruzzi, Nicholas; Link, Meredith; Prati, Victor; Weaver, Adam; Saper, Michael								Differences in the course of rehabilitation and outcomes for publicly insured pediatric patients after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				52	57		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.09.002			NOV 2022	2022	Objective: Examine the effect of insurance type on physical therapy (PT) utilization and outcomes within pediatric and adolescent patients after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. Design: Multicenter retrospective cohort study. Methods: PT visits and functional hop test performance were extracted into a shared database. The average number of PT visits per week was assessed overall and by time period. Independent samples ttest examined the effect of insurance on PT utilization and the effect of insurance status on the odds of passing single-legged hop tests was assessed using multivariable logistic regression. Results: A total of 281 patients (15.7 +/- 1.9, 42% female) were included in this analysis. Of these, 128 (45%) had public insurance. Publicly insured patients experienced a longer delay from surgery to hop test (8.3vs7.7 months, p = 0.009), attended overall fewer PT visits per week (0.92vs1.04, p = 0.005), with most of the decreased frequency occurring between weeks 7-24. Insurance status had a significant effect on the odds of passing the single leg hop test (2.72; 95%CI, 1.27-5.81). Conclusion: Publicly insured patients average a lower number of weekly PT visits, experienced a longer delay from surgery to hop testing and were 2.7 times less likely to pass the single leg hop for distance test.		[Saper, Michael] Seattle Childrens, Seattle, WA USA; [Butler, Lauren] Nicklaus Childrens Hosp, Miami, FL USA; [Giampetruzzi, Nicholas; Weaver, Adam] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Hartford, CT USA; [Greenberg, Elliot; Link, Meredith] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Prati, Victor] Arkansas Childrens Hosp, Little Rock, AR USA; [Greenberg, Elliot] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Pediat Adolescent Specialty Care Ctr Bucks Cty, Sports Med & Performance Ctr, 500 W Butler Ave, Chalfont, PA 18914 USA; [Greenberg, Elliot] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Pediat Adolescent Specialty Care Ctr Bucks Cty, Sports Med & Performance Ctr, 500 W Butler Ave, Chalfont, PA 18914 USA								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900006	38	Article; Article		
J	Norouzi, Mahdi; Cabuk, Refik; Balci, Gorkem Aybars; As, Hakan; Ozkaya, Ozgur								Assessing Acute Responses to Exercises Performed Within and at the Upper Boundary of Severe Exercise Domain								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1094	1100		10.1080/02701367.2022.2117268			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: The highest work-rate that provides maximal oxygen uptake (<(V)over dot> O-2max) may be one of the best exercise stimuli to yield both <(V)over dot> O-2max and lactate accumulation. The aim of this study was to analyze physiological and metabolic acute responses of an exercise modality performed at the upper boundary of the severe exercise domain, and compare those responses with exercise modalities applied within the severe exercise domain. Method: Ten trained male cyclists participated in this study. The <(V)over dot> O-2max, corresponding power output (POVO2max), and the highest work-rate that provides the <(V)over dot> O-2max (IHIGH) were determined by constant work-rate exercises. Cyclists performed three high-intensity interval training (HIIT) strategies as follows; HIIT-1: 4-6 x 3-min at 95% of POVO2max with 1:1 (workout/rest ratio); HIIT-2: 16-18 x 1-min at 105% of POVO2max with 1:1; HIIT-3: 4-7 x 1-2-min at the IHIGH with 1:2. Capillary blood samples were analyzed before, immediately after HIIT sessions, and at the first, third, and fifth minutes of recovery periods. Lactate difference between the highest lactate response and resting status was considered as the peak lactate response for each HIIT modality. Results: Time spent at <(V)over dot> O-2max was greater at HIIT-1 and HIIT-3 (272 +/- 127 and 208 +/- 111 seconds, respectively; p = 0.155; effect size = 0.43) when compared to the HIIT-2 (similar to 26 seconds; p < 0.001), while there was a greater lactate accumulation at HIIT-3 (similar to 16 mmol.L- 1) when compared to HIIT-1 and HIIT-2 (12 and 14 mmol.L-1, respectively; p < 0.001). Conclusions: In conclusion, HIIT-3 performed at IHIGH was successful to provide time spent at <(V)over dot> O-2max with a greater lactate accumulation in a single session.		[Norouzi, Mahdi; As, Hakan] Ege Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, Izmir, Turkey; [Cabuk, Refik] Bayburt Univ, Bayburt, Turkey; [Balci, Gorkem Aybars; Ozkaya, Ozgur] Ege Univ, Izmir, Turkey; [Ozkaya, Ozgur] Ege Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Coaching Educ, TR-35050 Izmir, Turkey								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000857352100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Namiki, Yusuke; Saito, Akira; Okada, Kyoji								The relationship between changes in elbow valgus laxity and forearm flexor strength during repetitive pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			3334	3345		10.1080/14763141.2022.2125822			DEC 1 2024	2024	This study examined the changes in the medial elbow joint space width and forearm flexor strength due to repetitive pitching and analysed the relationships among these factors. Thirty-one collegiate baseball players pitched seven sets of 15 pitches each. The medial elbow joint space width, grip strength, and forearm flexor strengths were measured before pitching and after each set. These parameters were compared at baseline and after pitching for each set. Additionally, the relationships between changes in the medial elbow joint space and forearm flexor strength were examined for each set. The medial elbow joint space width significantly increased after four sets compared to baseline values. Compared to baseline values, grip strength decreased significantly after one set, wrist flexion and radial deviation after six, and ulnar deviation after five. However, changes in the medial joint space compared to baseline values after each set were not significantly correlated with changes in forearm flexor strength variables. Therefore, repetitive pitching causes an increase in elbow valgus laxity and a decrease in forearm flexor strength. However, the decrease in forearm muscle strength does not explain the increase in elbow valgus laxity.		[Namiki, Yusuke] Akita City Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Akita, Japan; [Saito, Akira; Okada, Kyoji] Akita Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Akita, Japan; [Namiki, Yusuke] Akita City Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Akita, Japan								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000857085100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Gene, Javier; Colado, Juan C.; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Redondo, Beatriz; Jimenez, Raimundo; Vera, Jesus; Martin-Rivera, Fernando								Acute Intraocular Pressure Responses to Resistance Training in Combination With Blood Flow Restriction								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1110	1116		10.1080/02701367.2022.2119197			OCT 2 2023	2023	Objective: To determine the effect of blood flow restriction (BFR) applied to the legs at different pressures (40% and 60%) on intraocular pressure (IOP) during the execution of ten repetitions maximum (10RM) in the half-squat exercise. Methods: Quasi-experimental, prospective study with 17 healthy physically active subjects (9 males and 8 females; 24.1 +/- 4.2 years). Two sessions were conducted. The 10RM load was determined in the first session. The second session consisted of 10RM under three BFR conditions (no-BFR, 40%-BFR, and 60%-BFR) that were applied in random order. IOP was measured before each condition, immediately after each repetition, and after 1 minute of passive recovery. A two-way repeated-measures ANOVA (restriction type [no-BFR, 40%-BFR, and 60%-BFR] x measurement point [basal, repetitions 1-10, and recovery]) was applied on the IOP measurements. Results: A significant main effect of the BFR condition (p = .022, np(2) = 0.21) was observed due to the significantly higher mean IOP values for the 60%-BFR (19.0 +/- 0.7 mmHg) compared to the no-BFR (18.0 +/- 0.8 mmHg; p = .048, d(unb) = 1.30). Non-significant differences with a large effect size were reached between 60%-BFR and 40%-BFR (18.1 +/- 0.8 mmHg; p = .081, d(unb) = 1.16) and between no-BFR and 40%-BFR (p = .686, d(unb) = 0.18). IOP increased approximately 3-4 mmHg from baseline to the last repetition. Conclusions: Low-pressure BFR (40%-BFR) in combination with moderate-load (10RM load) resistance exercise could be an effective and safe strength training strategy while avoiding IOP peaks associated with heavy-load resistance exercises. These findings incorporate novel insights into the most effective exercise strategies in individuals who need to maintain stable IOP levels (e.g., glaucoma patients).		[Gene, Javier; Colado, Juan C.; Martin-Rivera, Fernando] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Redondo, Beatriz; Jimenez, Raimundo; Vera, Jesus] Univ Granada, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Concepcion, Chile; [Martin-Rivera, Fernando] Univ Valencia, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Gasco Oliag 3, Valencia 46010, Spain								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000856123500001	65	Article; Article		
J	Losak, Jeremy M.; Weinbach, Andrew P.; Paul, Rodney J.								Behavioral Biases in Daily Fantasy Baseball: The Case of the Hot Hand								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	3			374	401		10.1177/15270025221128955			APR 2023	2023	Despite mixed evidence, sport participants and fans heavily believe in the existence of the hot hand. Prior literature examining NBA and NFL betting markets found betters were biased towards hot teams. Using a unique market and data set, this study identifies if the hot hand is prevalent in daily fantasy baseball contests, if there is a profitable hot hand selection strategy, and if consumers believe in its existence. Results show that while there is no evidence of a hot hand effect, and no evidence of a profitable hot hand strategy, consumers believe in and incorporate it in their lineup decisions.		[Losak, Jeremy M.; Paul, Rodney J.] Syracuse Univ, David B Falk Coll Sport & Human Dynam, 318 MacNaughton Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA; [Weinbach, Andrew P.] Coastal Carolina Univ, Wall Coll Business, Conway, SC USA; [Losak, Jeremy M.] Syracuse Univ, David B Falk Coll Sport & Human Dynam, 318 MacNaughton Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000857704300001	32	Article; Article		
J	Tears, Craig; Rae, Glen; Hide, Geoff; Sinha, Raj; Franklin, John; Brand, Peter; Hasan, Farah; Chesterton, Paul								The British Athletics Muscle Injury Classification grading system as a predictor of return to play following hamstrings injury in professional football players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				46	51		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.08.002			NOV 2022	2022	Objectives: Investigate the British Athletics Muscle Injury Classification (BAMIC) grading system as a predictor of return to play (RTP) following primary hamstring strain injury (HSI) and its agreement with the Peetron's classification system in professional footballers.Methods: A retrospective cohort study of 39 hamstrings strains in a professional English football club were identified. Two musculoskeletal radiologists reviewed historical MRI's and classified them against the BAMIC and Peetron's grading system. Classification, oedema length and cross-sectional area were compared against RTP.Results: Pearson's correlation coefficient demonstrated a weak but statistically significant correlation between BAMIC and RTP (r = 0.32; 95%CI 0.01 to 0.58; p = 0.05). Maximum length of intramuscular oedema demonstrated weak correlations with RTP (r = 0.3; 95%CI-0.02 to 0.56; p = 0.06). Percentage cross sectional demonstrated a weak correlation with RTP (r = 0.02; 95%CI-0.3 to 0.33; p = 0.91). Multiple regression demonstrated that 16% of the variance in RTP was explained by the model. Kappa for the agreement between BAMIC and Peetron's was 0.21 (95%CI 0 to 0.42).Conclusions: A significant association between the grade of HSI on the BAMIC system and RTP was found. Findings suggest BAMIC could provide valuable prognostic information on the RTP.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Tears, Craig; Franklin, John; Chesterton, Paul] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Middlesbrough, England; [Rae, Glen] England Cricket Board, Loughborough, England; [Hide, Geoff] Freeman Rd Hosp, Newcastle Hosp NHS Trust, Dept Radiol, Newcastle upon Tyne, England; [Sinha, Raj] Newcastle Nuffield Hosp, Dept Radiol, Newcastle upon Tyne, England; [Brand, Peter] Sunderland Assoc Football Club, Stadium Light, Sunderland, England; [Hasan, Farah] James Cook Univ Hosp, South Tees Hosp NHS Trust, Middlesbrough, England; [Tears, Craig] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Borough Rd, Tees Valley TS1 3BA, England; [Tears, Craig] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Borough Rd, Tees Valley TS1 3BA, England								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900005	44	Article; Article		
J	Wu, Lucas Y.; Swartz, Tim B.								The calculation of player speed from tracking data								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			516	522		10.1177/17479541221124036			APR 2023	2023	This short communication considers the calculation of player speed from tracking data. Whereas there are many player tracking systems, all rely on the collection of Cartesian coordinates corresponding to the players on the pitch. From these Cartesian coordinates, there are many ways that one could approximate player speed and acceleration. We introduce some simple principles from exploratory data analysis, which help yield more reliable speed calculations. The general principles are illustrated on various player tracking systems.		[Wu, Lucas Y.; Swartz, Tim B.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Stat & Actuarial Sci, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6, Canada; [Swartz, Tim B.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Stat & Actuarial Sci, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6, Canada								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000855911700001	15	Article; Article		
J	Franco-Alvarenga, Paulo Estevao; Cechetti, Matheus Dos Santos; Barcelos, Dores; Canestri, Raul; Brietzke, Cayque; Vinicius, Italo; Goethel, Marcio Fagundes; Ferreira, Guilherme Assuncao; Pires, Flavio Oliveira								Ice Massage on the Calf Improves 4-km Running Time Trial Performance in a Normothermic Environment								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1126	1132		10.1080/02701367.2022.2120948			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Local cooling with ice massage is a practical and inexpensive technique to decrease perceptual stress and improve motor performance in hot environments. However, it is unknown whether local cooling with ice massage reduces perceptual responses to exercise and improves performance in a normothermic environment. Thus, we investigated whether ice massage on the calf muscles before a 4 km running time trial (TT4km) reduced the ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) and perceived muscle pain, thereby improving exercise performance in a normothermic environment. Methods: After familiarizations, fourteen recreationally endurance-trained men (age = 21.3 +/- 1.2 years; body weight = 67.5 +/- 9.2 kg; height = 173.0 +/- 5.0 cm) underwent two TT4km on a 400 m track in normothermic conditions with or without ice massage before the trial. The time of running, RPE, and pain perception were recorded every 400 m throughout the TT4km. Results: The local cooling with ice massage increased the mean speed (similar to 5.2%, p = 0.03) and decreased the time to complete the TT4km (similar to 5.5%, p = 0.03). Accordingly, ice massage also reduced the exercise-derived pain perception (p = 0.028), although no effect has been found in the RPE during the TT4km (p = 0.32). Conclusion: Together, these results showed that local cooling with ice massage before the exercise reduced the exercise-derived pain perception, enabling runners to increase the speed for a comparable RPE during exercise, thereby improving the TT4km performance in a normothermic environment.		[Franco-Alvarenga, Paulo Estevao; Cechetti, Matheus Dos Santos; Barcelos, Dores] Univ Estacio Sa, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Franco-Alvarenga, Paulo Estevao; Canestri, Raul; Brietzke, Cayque; Vinicius, Italo; Pires, Flavio Oliveira] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Franco-Alvarenga, Paulo Estevao; Brietzke, Cayque; Pires, Flavio Oliveira] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Goethel, Marcio Fagundes; Ferreira, Guilherme Assuncao] Univ Porto, Porto, Portugal; [Ferreira, Guilherme Assuncao] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Franco-Alvarenga, Paulo Estevao] Univ Sao Paulo, Psychophysiol Res Grp, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Av Arlindo Bettio 1000, BR-03828000 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000858408900001	36	Article; Article		
J	Astorino, Todd A.; Teske, Austin; Sturdy, Robert; Thomas, Harrison; Stavrinou, Pinelopi; Bogdanis, Gregory C.								Shorter Versus Longer Durations of Rowing-Based Interval Exercise Attenuate the Physiological and Perceptual Response								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1117	1125		10.1080/02701367.2022.2120176			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study compared physiological and perceptual variables between short and long durations of rowing-based high intensity interval exercise (HIIE). Methods: Fourteen active adults (age = 26.4 +/- 7.2 yr) performed incremental rowing exercise to fatigue to measure maximal oxygen uptake (VO(2)max) and peak power output (PPO). The subsequent 20 min sessions required HIIE (eight 60 s efforts at 85%PPO with 90 s of active recovery at 20%PPO or 24 20 s efforts at 85%PPO with 30 s of active recovery at 20%PPO) or moderate intensity continuous exercise (MICE) at 40%PPO. During exercise, VO2, heart rate (HR), blood lactate concentration (BLa), rating of perceived exertion (RPE), and affective valence were measured. Results: Data show significantly (p < 0.001) higher peak VO2 (84 +/- 7 vs. 76 +/- 5%VO(2)peak, d = 0.99), peak HR (94 +/- 4%HRpeak vs. 90 +/- 4%HRpeak, d = 1.12), BLa (7.0 +/- 2.5 mM vs. 4.1 +/- 1.0 mM, d = 1.22), end-exercise RPE (12.8 +/- 2.0 vs. 11.0 +/- 1.7, d = 1.29), and lower affective valence (2.1 +/- 1.6 vs. 2.9 +/- 1.2, d = 0.61) with long versus short HIIE. Time spent above 85%HRpeak was significantly higher (p < 0.001) in short versus long HIIE (606 +/- 259 vs. 448 +/- 26 s, d = 0.91). Conclusion: Longer rowing-based intervals elicit greater cardiometabolic and perceptual strain versus shorter efforts, making the latter preferable to optimize perceptual responses to HIIE.		[Astorino, Todd A.; Teske, Austin; Sturdy, Robert; Thomas, Harrison] Calif State Univ San Marcos, San Marcos, CA 92096 USA; [Stavrinou, Pinelopi; Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Athens, Greece; [Astorino, Todd A.] Calif State Univ San Marcos, Dept Kinesiol, 333 S Twin Oaks Valley Rd,UNIV 320, San Marcos, CA 92096 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000855337600001	50	Article; Article		
J	Kukic, Filip; Koropanovski, Nenad; Veskovic, Ana; Petrovic, Nikola								Physical Activity as a Means to Improve Subjective Vitality of University Students								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1101	1109		10.1080/02701367.2022.2119196			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study compared physical self-concept and subjective vitality of police, physical education, and psychology students. Moreover, the study investigated whether students who reported a higher level of physical activity differently rated physical self-concept and subjective vitality and whether physical activity was associated with subjective vitality. Methods: The study sample included 422 university students (249 females) from three state academic institutions: University of Criminal Investigation and Police Studies (n = 165), Faculty of Sport and Physical Education (n = 156) and Faculty of Psychology (n = 101). The mean age was 20.85 +/- 3.59 years. They completed a physical self-description questionnaire, the subjective vitality scale, and a physical activity questionnaire using the Survey Monkey platform. Multivariate analysis of variance investigated the differences in physical activity, physical self and vitality, while regression analysis investigated the association of physical self and physical activity with subjective vitality. Results: Police students and physical education students reported higher levels of physical activity and perceived higher their own physical self and subjective vitality than psychology students. From the whole sample, students who were sufficiently physically active also scored higher on physical self-concept and subjective vitality. There was a significant association of physical activity level with subjective vitality. Conclusion: Physical activity was directly associated with students' subjective evaluation of their own health. It can be concluded that students should aim to attain a minimum of 150 min per week of physical activity. Students and faculties should be involved in the attainment of minimal levels of physical activity. This could improve students' subjective perception of self, along with objective measures of health and wellbeing.		[Kukic, Filip] Abu Dhabi Police, Abu Dhabi, U Arab Emirates; [Koropanovski, Nenad] Univ Criminal Invest & Police Studies, Zemun, Serbia; [Veskovic, Ana; Petrovic, Nikola] Univ Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia; [Kukic, Filip] Abu Dhabi Police, Police Sports Educ Ctr, Airport Rd,API Tower,Apt 1205, Abu Dhabi, U Arab Emirates								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000854459400001	48	Article; Article		
J	Song, Jun Seob; Kataoka, Ryo; Yamada, Yujiro; Wong, Vickie; Spitz, Robert W.; Bell, Zachary W.; Loenneke, Jeremy P.								The Hypoalgesic Effect of Low-Load Exercise to Failure Is Not Augmented by Blood Flow Restriction								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1084	1093		10.1080/02701367.2022.2115443			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: To 1) examine whether blood flow restriction would provide an additional exercise-induced hypoalgesic response at an upper and lower limb when it is incorporated with low-load resistance exercise until failure, and 2) examine if increases in blood pressure and discomfort, with blood flow restricted exercise, would mediate the exercise-induced hypoalgesia over exercise without blood flow restriction. Methods: Forty healthy young participants completed two trials: four sets of unilateral knee extension exercise to failure at 30% of one-repetition maximum, with and without blood flow restriction. Pressure pain thresholds were assessed before (twice) and 5-min post exercise at an upper and lower limb. Blood pressure and discomfort ratings were recorded to examine mediating effects on exercise-induced hypoalgesia with blood flow restricted exercise. Results: Pressure pain threshold increased following both exercise conditions compared to a control, without any differences between exercise conditions at the upper (exercise conditions vs. control: similar to 0.37 kg/cm(2)) and lower (exercise conditions vs. control: similar to 0.60 kg/cm(2)) limb. The total number of repetitions was lower for exercise with blood flow restriction compared to exercise alone [median difference (95% credible interval) of -27.0 (-29.8, -24.4) repetitions]. There were no mediating effects of changes in blood pressure, nor changes in discomfort, for the changes in pressure pain threshold at either the upper or lower limb. Conclusion: The addition of blood flow restriction to low-load exercise induces a similar hypoalgesic response to that of non-blood flow restricted exercise, with a fewer number of repetitions.		[Song, Jun Seob; Kataoka, Ryo; Yamada, Yujiro; Wong, Vickie; Spitz, Robert W.; Bell, Zachary W.; Loenneke, Jeremy P.] Univ Mississippi, University, MS 38677 USA; [Loenneke, Jeremy P.] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Kevser Ermin Appl Physiol Lab, POB 1848, University, MS 38677 USA								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000854264600001	48	Article; Article		
J	Holmes, Paul M.; Kane, Robert F.								The Spread of Integration in Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	3			271	284		10.1177/15270025221120588			APR 2023	2023	After the initial integration of Major League Baseball (MLB), teams introduced black players at different rates. We examine whether, and to what extent, team performance affected the rate of spread of integration. Our theoretical model predicts that teams of moderate talent will integrate fastest. We confirm this prediction using data from the first twenty years of MLB integration. However we show that relatively little of the spread of integration can be explained by differences in talent/performance, suggesting that competitive rivalry (as we measure it) was not the primary driver of the pace of integration in MLB.		[Holmes, Paul M.] Ashland Univ, Econ & Finance, Ashland, OH USA; [Kane, Robert F.] Int Univ Japan Minamiuonuma, Minamiuonuma, Niigata, Japan; [Holmes, Paul M.] Ashland Univ, Econ & Finance, 245 Dauch Bldg,401 Coll Ave, Ashland, OH 44805 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000852016800001	13	Article; Article		
J	Bishop, Chris; Jarvis, Paul; Turner, Anthony; Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos								Validity and Reliability of Strategy Metrics to Assess Countermovement Jump Performance Using the Newly Developed <i>My Jump Lab</i> Smartphone Application								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			185	195		10.2478/hukin-2022-0098			SEP 8 2022	2022	The aim of the present study was to analyse the validity and reliability of the newly developed My Jump Lab smartphone app, which includes the option to calculate time to take-off and the reactive strength index modified (RSI_Mod - calculated as jump height divided by time to take-off), in addition to jump height. Twenty-seven postgraduate sport science students attended a single test session and performed three maximal effort countermovement jumps (CMJ) on twin force plates, whilst concurrently being filmed using the app. Results showed no significant differences in jump height between measurement methods (g = 0.00) or RSI_Mod (g = -0.49), although a significant difference was evident for time to take-off (g = 0.68). When a correction factor was applied to time to take-off data, no meaningful differences were evident (g = 0.00), which also had a knock-on effect for RSI_Mod (g = 0.10). Bland-Altman analysis showed near perfect levels of agreement for jump height with a bias estimate of 0.001 m, whilst time to take-off reported a bias estimate of 0.075 s initially and, 0.000 s once the correction factor was applied. For RSI_Mod, bias estimate was initially -0.048, and 0.006 once calculated with the corrected time to take-off data. Pearson's r correlations were: 0.98 for jump height, 0.81 for time to take-off, and 0.85 for RSI_Mod. Based on the findings from the present study, and with the inclusion of the newly embedded correction factor, My Jump Lab can now be used as both a valid and reliable means of measuring time to take-off and RSI_Mod in the CMJ.		[Bishop, Chris; Jarvis, Paul; Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos] Autonomous Univ Madrid, Appl Biomech & Sport Technol Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England								48							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600019	35	Article; Article		
J	Zanetti, Vinicius; Aoki, Marcelo Saldanha; Bradley, Paul S.; Moreira, Alexandre								External and Internal Training Loads for Intensive and Extensive Tactical-Conditioning in Soccer Small Sided Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			165	173		10.2478/hukin-2022-0083			SEP 8 2022	2022	This study aimed to investigate the external (ETLs; 15-Hz GPS unit coupled with a 100 Hz tri-axial accelerometer) and internal training loads (ITLs; session-RPE method) of 18 elite U20 soccer players (19 +/- 1.0 years, 178 +/- 8 cm, 71 +/- 7 kg) undertaking a tactical-conditioning training program with special reference to small-sided games (SSGs). The SSGs used in this program were either extensive (SSG-extensive) or intensive (SSG-intensive) training sessions, that were alternated within the assessed weeks. Tactical principles of the game influenced the aim of the technical-tactical content. Total distance (TDR; ES: 1.17), and a very high-speed running distance (HSR; ES: 0.96) were greater in SSG-extensive vs. SSG-intensive. However, no meaningful difference was found for accelerations (ACC; ES: 0.12) and decelerations (DEC; ES: 0.08). However, a higher perceived intensity (session-RPE; ES: 0.62) and greater ITLs (ES: 0.27) were found for SSG-intensive. These findings suggest that coaches should prescribe SSG training sessions not only considering the usual variables (rules, player numbers, etc.). The current data indicate that the tactical objective of SSGs in relation to exercise bout duration and rest intervals should be considered, while implementing a multi-dimensional training monitoring program during SSG tactical-conditioning training sessions, integrating ETL and ITL variables to gain a better understanding of training responses.		[Zanetti, Vinicius; Moreira, Alexandre] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Zanetti, Vinicius] Red Bull Brazil, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Aoki, Marcelo Saldanha] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Bradley, Paul S.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Moreira, Alexandre] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Moreira, Alexandre] Av Prof Mello Moraes 65, BR-05508030 Univ City, SP, Brazil								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600017	23	Article; Article		
J	Chmura, Pawel; Oliva-Lozano, Jose M.; Muyor, Jose M.; Andrzejewski, Marcin; Chmura, Jan; Czarniecki, Slawomir; Kowalczuk, Edward; Rokita, Andrzej; Konefal, Marek								Physical Performance Indicators and Team Success in the German Soccer League								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			257	265		10.2478/hukin-2022-0099			SEP 8 2022	2022	The aims of this study were (1) to determine the match running performance required by different teams based on their final ranking position and (2) to analyze the association between match running performance variables and team success at the end of the season. A total of 1,224 match observations from professional soccer teams competing during two consecutive seasons in the German Bundesliga were analyzed. In addition, the final league ranking position and the total of points obtained by each team at the end of the season were registered for the analysis of the association between team success and match running performance. The main findings were that high ranked teams covered the greatest total distance with ball possession, sprinting distance with ball possession, and completed the greatest number of sprinting actions with ball possession and maximal velocity. Moreover, total distance covered with possession of the ball and maximal velocity were the most important variables to predict the total of points obtained at the end of the season. Specifically, the relative contribution of total distance covered with ball possession to the total of points obtained was greater than maximal velocity. Training programs for professional soccer players should be focused on improving the sprint capacity and running with possession of the ball (e.g., transitional tasks and small-sided games). Moreover, this has implications for injury prevention, physical, psychological, and technical-tactical training since today's soccer requires players to engage in repeated high-intensity actions, reach maximum speeds above 9 m/s, and develop technical-tactical coordination when running with the ball.		[Chmura, Pawel; Rokita, Andrzej] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Team Games, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland; [Oliva-Lozano, Jose M.; Muyor, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Hlth Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain; [Muyor, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Res Cent Serv, Lab Kinesiol Biomech & Ergon, KIBIOMER Lab, Almeria, Spain; [Andrzejewski, Marcin] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Methodol Recreat, PL-61871 Poznan, Poland; [Chmura, Jan; Konefal, Marek] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Biol & Motor Sport Bases, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland; [Czarniecki, Slawomir] Football Club, Bayer 04 Leverkusen, D-51373 Leverkusen, Germany; [Kowalczuk, Edward] Football Club, Hannover 96, D-30169 Hannover, Germany; [Oliva-Lozano, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Edificio Cent,Ctra Sacramento S-N, Almeria 04120, Spain								36							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600025	39	Article; Article		
J	Kawama, Raki; Okudaira, Masamichi; Shibata, Seigo; Shimasaki, Tatsuya; Maemura, Hirohiko; Tanigawa, Satoru								Elite Rugby Players Have Unique Morphological Characteristics of the Hamstrings and Quadriceps Femoris Muscles According to their Playing Positions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			155	163		10.2478/hukin-2022-0039			SEP 8 2022	2022	Rugby is a popular sport requiring high-intensity and maximal speed actions. Numerous studies have demonstrated that physical performance variables, such as strength, sprinting, and jumping, are different between the forwards and backs. However, there is little information about muscle morphological characteristics specific for each rugby playing position. This study aimed to clarify the morphological characteristics of the thigh muscles in forwards and backs. Ultrasound images were obtained from the proximal, middle, and distal regions of the thigh. Then, the anatomical cross-sectional areas of particular muscles in the hamstrings and quadriceps femoris were calculated for seven forwards, seven backs, and ten non-athletes. The anatomical cross-sectional areas were normalised by the two-third power of lean body mass, and the normalised values of the three regions were averaged as that of the individual muscle. In the hamstrings, the normalised anatomical cross-sectional areas of the biceps femoris long head were significantly greater in forwards than in non-athletes, whereas those of the semitendinosus were significantly greater in backs than in non-athletes. Furthermore, in the quadriceps femoris, the normalised anatomical cross-sectional areas of the rectus femoris and vastus intermedius were significantly greater in forwards than in backs and non-athletes. These results suggest that forwards have great muscularity of the biceps femoris long head and vastus intermedius which can generate large force, whereas backs possess great muscularity of the semitendinosus which can generate high contraction velocity. These findings allow coaches to design more effective training programs according to particular rugby playing positions.		[Kawama, Raki] Doshisha Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-3 Tatara, Kyotanabe, Kyoto 6100394, Japan; [Kawama, Raki; Okudaira, Masamichi] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Shibata, Seigo] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Ibaraki, Japan; [Shimasaki, Tatsuya; Maemura, Hirohiko; Tanigawa, Satoru] Univ Tsukuba, Inst Hlth & Sports Sci, Ibaraki, Japan; [Kawama, Raki] Doshisha Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-3 Tatara, Kyotanabe, Kyoto 6100394, Japan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600016	31	Article; Article		
J	Garcia, Franc; Fernandez, Daniel; Illa, Jordi; Reche, Xavier; Vazquez-Guerrero, Jairo								The Distribution of Match Physical Activities Relative to the Most Demanding Scenarios in Professional Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			207	221		10.2478/hukin-2022-0059			SEP 8 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to examine the distribution of physical activities relative to the most demanding scenarios across playing positions during official basketball match-play. Twelve professional basketball players were monitored during twelve matches using a local positioning system. Peak physical demands were measured via total distance covered, distance covered >18 km center dot h(-1), and the number of accelerations and decelerations >3 m center dot s(-2) captured over 30- and 60-s rolling averages. The results showed that players were exposed to more than one high-demanding scenario in all variables and time epochs examined. Additionally, total distance covered presented the greatest number of moderate-demanding scenarios (40-80% of most demanding scenarios), whereas distance covered >18 km center dot h(-1), and accelerations and decelerations >3 m center dot s(-2) presented the greatest proportion of low-demanding scenarios (<40% of most demanding scenarios). Regarding positional differences, backcourt players generally experienced a higher number of scenarios than frontcourt players in most variables, especially in total distance covered. For this variable, scenarios between 20 and 70% of most demanding scenarios during the 30-s epoch (p < 0.001; ES = 0.420.78), and scenarios between 50 and 90% of most demanding scenarios during the 60-s epoch (p < 0.001; ES = 0.400.64) showed significant differences between backcourt and frontcourt players. Our data suggest that match physical activities are position-dependent and variable-dependent. In addition, peak physical demands appear to be repeated during basketball competition. These results may be considered by practitioners to complement average values and most demanding scenarios when prescribing individualized training programs to optimize team performance.		[Garcia, Franc; Fernandez, Daniel; Illa, Jordi; Reche, Xavier; Vazquez-Guerrero, Jairo] Futbol Club Barcelona, Sports Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain; [Garcia, Franc; Fernandez, Daniel; Illa, Jordi; Reche, Xavier; Vazquez-Guerrero, Jairo] Futbol Club Barcelona, Barca Innovat Hub, Barcelona, Spain; [Garcia, Franc] Avinguda Onze de Setembre S-N, Barcelona 08970, Spain								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600021	33	Article; Article		
J	Daigle, Andre-Philippe; Belanger, Steve; Brunelle, Jean-Francois; Lemoyne, Jean								Functional Performance Tests, On-Ice Testing and Game Performance in Elite Junior Ice Hockey Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			245	256		10.2478/hukin-2022-000076			SEP 8 2022	2022	This study aimed to explore relationships between fitness, on-ice physical abilities and game performance among elite junior male ice hockey players. Twenty-one major junior ice hockey players (18.9 +/- 1.4 years old) participated in the study. Measures including five fitness tests (anthropometric measures, pull up test, bench press test, broad jump, vertical jump) and three on-ice skating tests (multi-stage aerobic skating test, 44-m sprint test, and backward skating test) were assessed during their pre-season training camp. Game performance metrics (collected during the regular season) were collected using InStat software. Results of the (on-ice and off-ice) functional performance test protocol and on-ice tests were analyzed by evaluating correlation coefficients in multiple areas of game performance: 1) physical implication (body checks), 2) offensive contribution (expected goals for, types of zone entries), and 3) defensive actions (blocked shots, expected goals against). They revealed that performance in the broad jump test was associated with skating speed. Some significant correlations were also observed between on-ice test performance indicators such as received body checks, expected goals and blocked shots. In summary, results indicate that on-ice test protocols were associated with players' performance in multiple aspects of the game. Partial correlation analyses revealed that some of these relationships were specific to the player's position. Forward skating was associated with forwards' offensive play, and backward skating was specifically related with defensemen's performance (offense and defense). The addition of on-ice physical tests appears essential for interpreting the results of ice hockey players' physical tests and integrating these results into players' physical preparation and the in-season follow-up.		[Daigle, Andre-Philippe; Belanger, Steve; Lemoyne, Jean] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, UQTR, Dept Human Kinet, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Daigle, Andre-Philippe; Belanger, Steve; Brunelle, Jean-Francois; Lemoyne, Jean] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, UQTR Ice Hockey Res Lab, UQTR, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Belanger, Steve] Quebec Major Jr Hockey League, Quebec Remparts, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Brunelle, Jean-Francois] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Ctr Phys Act, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Lemoyne, Jean] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Dept Human Kinet, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600024	33	Article; Article		
J	Rago, Vincenzo; Krustrup, Peter; Mohr, Magni								Performance and Submaximal Adaptations to Additional Speed-Endurance Training vs. Continuous Moderate-Intensity Aerobic Training in Male Endurance Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			277	285		10.2478/hukin-2022-0060			SEP 8 2022	2022	We examined performance and submaximal adaptations to additional treadmill-based speed-endurance training (SET) vs. continuous moderate-intensity aerobic training (MIT) twice / week. Twenty-two male endurance athletes were tested before and after 10-week SET (6-12 x 30-s sprints separated by 3-min rest intervals) and MIT (20-40 min continuous running at similar to 70% maximal oxygen uptake [(V)over dotO(2max)]. The SET group attained greater acute heart rate (HR) and blood lactate responses than the MIT group (d = 0.86-0.91). The SET group improved performance in a time-to-exhaustion trial, V02., and lactate threshold (d = 0.50-0.73), whereas no training-induced changes were observed in the MIT group. Additionally, the SET group reduced oxygen uptake, mean HR and improved running economy (d = 0.53-0.86) during running at 10 and 12 km.h(-1). Additional SET imposes greater physiological demands than MIT resulting in superior performance adaptations and reduced energy cost in endurance athletes.		[Rago, Vincenzo] Univ Europeia, Fac Hlth Sci & Sports, Lisbon, Portugal; [Krustrup, Peter; Mohr, Magni] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, SDU Sport & Hlth Sci Cluster SHSC, Odense, Denmark; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Faroe Isl, Fac Hlth, Ctr Hlth Sci, Torshavn, Faroe Islands, Denmark; [Mohr, Magni] Univ Southern Denmark, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Odense, Denmark								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600027	34	Article; Article		
J	Gholami, Farhad; Ali, Ajmol; Hasani, Ali; Zarei, Afsaneh								Effect of Beta-Alanine Supplementation on Exercise-Induced Cell Damage and Lactate Accumulation in Female Basketball Players: a Randomized, Double-Blind Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			99	107		10.2478/hukin-2022-0034			SEP 8 2022	2022	Beta-alanine (BA) is a supplement that has received attention for its buffering potential among athletes. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of BA supplementation on exercise performance and exercise-induced cell damage in female basketball players. Twenty-two female basketball players participated in a randomized, double-blind study. They ingested 6.4 g center dot day(-1) of BA or an isocaloric placebo (dextrose) over 4 weeks. Exercise performance including aerobic (Bruce test), anaerobic (Wingate test), intermittent (Yo-Yo test) and basketball performance (countermovement jump and free throw shots) was measured before and following the intervention. Exercise measures were performed at the lab and free throw shots were undertaken on a wooden indoor basketball court. Blood samples were also collected before and after the exhaustive exercise to assess lactate concentration, creatine kinase (CK), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and malondialdehyde (MDA) activity. The exhaustive exercise test induced an increase in lactate concentration and MDA, CK and LDH activity (all p < 0.05). BA supplementation significantly reduced the lactate response to exhaustive exercise (p = 0.001); however, it had no significant effect on exercise-induced MDA, CK and LDH activity (all p > 0.05). Furthermore, exercise performance measures improved from pre- to post-test regardless of supplement/placebo ingestion (all p < 0.05). BA consumption over 4 weeks significantly reduced lactate accumulation following exhaustive exercise, but had no ergogenic effect in female basketball players. Usual dosing of BA does not seem to exhibit protective effect against oxidative damage.		[Gholami, Farhad; Hasani, Ali; Zarei, Afsaneh] Shahrood Univ Technol, Fac Sport Sci, Shahrood, Semnan, Iran; [Ali, Ajmol] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Auckland, New Zealand; [Gholami, Farhad] Shahrood Univ Technol, Fac Sport Sci, Shahrood, Semnan, Iran								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600011	30	Article; Article		
J	Kuberski, Mariusz; Polak, Anna; Szoltys, Bogna; Markowski, Kamil; Zarzeczny, Ryszard								Associations between Selected Biological Features and Absolute and Relative Swimming Performance of Prepubescent Boys over a 3-Year Swimming Training Program: A Longitudinal Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			143	153		10.2478/hukin-2022-0056			SEP 8 2022	2022	The study aimed to investigate the effect of 3-year swimming training on selected biological variables in prepubescent male swimmers and to determine the best predictors of absolute (VSa) and relative (VSr) swimming velocity for 50 m and 400 m front crawl. Twenty-one 10-year old boys subjected to endurance swimming training (4 x 70 min per week) and 18 boys consisting a control group were assessed semi-annually for basic anthropometric and respiratory characteristics, breath-hold time (BHT), VO2max, leg explosiveness (HJ), and abdominal strength endurance (ASE). After three years of training, BHT (p < 0.001), VO2max (p < 0.01), HJ (p < 0.01) and ASE (p < 0.01) were greater in the swimmers than in the controls. VSa and VSr expressed as a percentage of baseline velocity increased more for the 50 m than for the 400 m distance (p < 0.001 and p < 0.01, respectively). The 50 m VSa and VSr positively correlated with those obtained for the distance of 400 m (in both cases p < 0.001). Baseline VSa was negatively correlated with the increase in absolute swimming velocity for both distances (50 m: r = -0.684, p < 0.001 and 400 m: r = -0.673, p < 0.001). The best predictors of VSa for 50 m and 400 m front crawl were HJ (r(2) = 0.388; p < 0.001) and VO2max (r(2) = 0.333; p < 0.001), respectively. The key predictors of VSr for both distances were age (50 m: r(2) = 0.340, p < 0.001 and 400 m: r(2) = 0.207, p < 0.001) and, after excluding it from analysis, HJ (50 m: r(2) = 0.176, p < 0.001 and 400 m: r(2) = 0.104, p < 0.001). These results suggest that regardless of prepubescent boys' initial abilities and exercise capacity, improvement in their swimming performance mainly depends on increases in power and neuromuscular coordination.		[Kuberski, Mariusz] Jan Dlugosz Univ Czestochowa, Fac Hlth Sci, Chair Phys Culture Sci, PL-42200 Czestochowa, Poland; [Polak, Anna] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Szoltys, Bogna] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Doctoral Sch, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Markowski, Kamil; Zarzeczny, Ryszard] Jan Kochanowski Univ Kielce, Coll Med, Inst Hlth Sci, PL-25317 Kielce, Poland; [Zarzeczny, Ryszard] Jan Kochanowski Univ Kielce, Coll Med, Inst Hlth Sci, PL-25317 Kielce, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600015	30	Article; Article		
J	Dell'Antonio, Elisa; Ruschel, Caroline; Hubert, Marcel; De Lucas, Ricardo Dantas; Haupenthal, Alessandro; Roesler, Helio								The Effect of Aquatic Plyometric Training on Jump Performance Including a Four-week Follow-up in Youth Female Volleyball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			197	205		10.2478/hukin-2022-0058			SEP 8 2022	2022	This study aimed to analyze the effect of aquatic plyometric training (APT) on jump performance in volleyball players. Twelve female athletes (16.6 +/- 0.9 years) were assessed through the following jump tests: spike height (SH), squat jump (SJ), countermovement jump (CMJ) and CMJ with an arm swing (CMJA). Jump height in each test and the eccentric utilization ratio (EUR) were the outcome measures. APT consisted of sets of drop jumps for 6 weeks (2 sessions/week) at a water depth of 0.75 m. Tests were performed at the beginning of a five-week pre-season period, before and after APT, and four weeks later for the follow-up. Repeated measures ANOVAs were used to analyze data and Hedges' g to estimate effect size (ES). Performance of all jumps did not change from baseline to Pre-APT. Performance improved in SH (p < 0.001, ES: 1.09), the SJ (p = 0.045, ES: 0.76) and the CMJA (p < 0.001, ES: 0.78) after APT when compared to Pre-APT. No changes were observed after the follow-up period. In conclusion, including six weeks of APT in the training routine of youth volleyball players improved performance of a sport-specific task (SH), the SJ and CMJA, with gains preserved after a four-week follow-up.		[Dell'Antonio, Elisa; Ruschel, Caroline; Hubert, Marcel; Roesler, Helio] Santa Catarina State Univ, Aquat Biomech Res Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [De Lucas, Ricardo Dantas] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Phys Effort Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Haupenthal, Alessandro] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Aging Resources & Rheumatol Lab, Ararangua, Brazil; [Dell'Antonio, Elisa] Rua Pascoal Simone 358, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600020	34	Article; Article		
J	Iwasaki, Ryo; Shinkai, Hironari; Nunome, Hiroyuki; Ito, Nobuyuki								Kinematic Factors Associated with Hitting Hurdles during the Initial Phase of a 110-m Hurdle Race								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			5	12		10.2478/hukin-2022-0048			SEP 8 2022	2022	This study aimed to clarify the kinematic factors for the cause and effect of hitting hurdles during the initial phase of a 110-m hurdle run. Nine experienced male hurdlers participated in this study (body height: 1.74 +/- 0.04 m, body mass: 67.4 +/- 5.9 kg, age: 20.2 +/- 1.4 years, personal best: 15.21 +/- 0.47 s, seasonal best: 15.33 +/- 0.55 s). Hurdlers undertook 12 trials of the initial phase of hurdling from the start to the second hurdle landing. Dual-sided sagittal plane motion was obtained from images from two high-speed cameras operating at 120 Hz. One 'hit' trial which had the largest horizontal displacement of markers fixed on the hurdle and one 'non-hit' trial which had the fastest time of hurdle clearance were extracted for each participant. Kinematic variables were compared between the two trials. Significantly lower height of the whole-body centre of mass at the take-off was found as a possible cause of hitting hurdles, caused by insufficient swing-up of the lead leg thigh. In contrast to conventional understanding, take-off velocity, take-off distance and the take-off angle were comparable between the 'hit' trial and 'non-hit' trial. Regarding the effect of hitting hurdles, it was observed that running velocity during hurdling was not substantially reduced. However, several characteristic movements were identified that might induce inefficient motion to re-accelerate running velocity during the following landing steps.		[Iwasaki, Ryo; Nunome, Hiroyuki] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Iwasaki, Ryo] Tokyo Gakugei Univ, United Grad Sch Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Shinkai, Hironari] Tokyo Gakugei Univ, Fac Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Ito, Nobuyuki] Yokohama Natl Univ, Fac Educ, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Iwasaki, Ryo] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Jonan Ku, 8-19-1 Nanakuma, Fukuoka, Fukuoka 8140180, Japan								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600001	18	Article; Article		
J	Williamson-Reisdorph, Cassie M.; Bechke, Emily E.; McLester, Cherilyn; Buresh, Robert; Millard-Stafford, Melinda; Green, Zackery; Rooks, Rasmus; Nickerson, Brett; Kliszczewicz, Brian M.								Carbohydrate Rinse Fails to Enhance Cycling Performance or Alter Metabolic and Autonomic Recovery in Recreational Cyclists								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			109	119		10.2478/hukin-2022-0036			SEP 8 2022	2022	The purpose of the study was to examine the effects of carbohydrate (CHO) mouth rinsing on autonomic and metabolic recovery as well as cycling performance. Ten male recreational cyclists (age = 30 +/- 6 years, VO2peak = 54.5 +/- 8.1 mL center dot kg(-1)center dot min(-1)) completed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover designed study. A CHO or a placebo (PLA) rinse was administered every 12.5% of a work to completion trial (75%W-max). Heart rate variability (lnRMSSD), the respiratory exchange ratio, and plasma epinephrine, norepinephrine, insulin, glucose, free fatty acids (FFA), and lactate were measured pre- and post-exercise. The CHO rinse did not improve time to completion of the test trial (CHO: 4108 +/- 307 s, PLA: 4176 +/- 374 s, p = 0.545). Further, the CHO rinse did not impact autonomic recovery, as measured by lnRMSSD (p = 0.787) and epinephrine (p = 0.132). Metabolic biomarkers were also unaffected by the CHO rinse, with no differences observed in responses of FFA (p = 0.064), lactate (p = 0.302), glucose (p = 0.113) or insulin (p = 0.408). Therefore, the CHO mouth rinse does not reduce the acute sympathetic response following strenuous exercise and does not result in improvements in cycling time to completion.		[Williamson-Reisdorph, Cassie M.] Univ Montana, Sch Integrat Physiol & Athlet Training, Missoula, MT 59801 USA; [Bechke, Emily E.; McLester, Cherilyn; Buresh, Robert; Green, Zackery; Rooks, Rasmus; Kliszczewicz, Brian M.] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA; [Millard-Stafford, Melinda] Georgia Inst Technol, Sch Biol Sci, Atlanta, GA 30332 USA; [Nickerson, Brett] Texas A&M Int Univ, Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Laredo, TX 78041 USA; [Kliszczewicz, Brian M.] 1000 Chastain Rd,MD 3139, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600012	29	Article; Article		
J	Zwierko, Teresa; Nowakowska, Anna; Jedziniak, Wojciech; Popowczak, Marek; Domaradzki, Jaroslaw; Kubaszewska, Joanna; Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz; Ciechanowicz, Andrzej								Contributing Factors to Sensorimotor Adaptability in Reactive Agility Performance in Youth Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			39	48		10.2478/hukin-2022-0067			SEP 8 2022	2022	Sensorimotor adaptability facilitates adjusting behaviour for changing environmental stimuli to maintain appropriate goal-directed motor performance. Its effectiveness is associated with perceptual-cognitive modulation. As the factors affecting it are still not completely known, the aim of our study was therefore to analyse the association between selected variables (demographic, training, anthropometric, genetic) and sensorimotor adaptation in reactive agility tasks in youth team-sport athletes. The study group consisted of 85 youth athletes (aged 12.61 +/- 0.98 years). Based on an initial evaluation, participants were divided into faster and slower agility groups. The resultant differences between change of direction speed tests and reactive agility tests provided the REAC-INDEX as a dependent variable. The independent variables were as follows: gender, calendar age, body mass, height, BMI, maturity offset, training status and the BDNF rs6265 polymorphism. Multiple linear regression showed that the maturity offset (ss = 0.269; p = 0.012) and calendar age (ss = -0.411; p < 0.001) significantly contributed to the REAC-INDEX of all participants (R-2 = 0.13). In the slower group, the c.196G BDNF allele had a significant influence (ss = -0.140; p = 0.044) on the REAC-INDEX. The best predictive model comprised female gender (ss = 0.799; p < 0.001), maturity offset (ss = -0.586; p < 0.001) and training experience (ss = -0.225; p = 0.009), contributing to 49% of RA variance. Sensorimotor adaptability is mainly dependent on gender and age, and can be improved through systematic sports training. The BDNF rs6265 polymorphism may be considered a contributing factor to SA variability in the initial stages of training, although polymorphism-related differences blurred as the effect of participation in sports training increased.		[Zwierko, Teresa; Nowakowska, Anna; Jedziniak, Wojciech; Kubaszewska, Joanna] Univ Szczecin, Funct & Struct Human Res Ctr, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Szczecin, Poland; [Popowczak, Marek] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Team Games, Wroclaw, Poland; [Domaradzki, Jaroslaw] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biostruct, Wroclaw, Poland; [Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz; Ciechanowicz, Andrzej] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Clin & Mol Biochem, Szczecin, Poland; [Zwierko, Teresa] Univ Szczecin, Funct & Struct Human Res Ctr, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Lab Kinesiol, 17C Narutowicza St, PL-71065 Szczecin, Poland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600005	30	Article; Article		
J	Wojdala, Grzegorz; Trybulski, Robert; Bichowska, Marta; Krzysztofik, Michal								A Comparison of Electromyographic Inter-Limb Asymmetry during a Standard versus a Sling Shot Assisted Bench Press Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			223	234		10.2478/hukin-2022-0084			SEP 8 2022	2022	The objective of this study was to compare peak surface electromyography (sEMG) activity of selected muscles along with inter-limb asymmetries between a control (CONT) and a Sling shot assisted (SS) bench press exercise. Ten resistance-trained males with at least three-year experience in resistance training (22.2 +/- 1.9 years, 88.7 +/- 11.2 kg, 179.5 +/- 4.1 cm, bench press one-repetition maximum (1RM) = 127.3 +/- 25.9 kg) performed the flat bench press exercise under two conditions at selected loads (85% and 100% of 1RM assessed without the SS). Peak sEMG amplitude of triceps brachii, pectoralis major, and anterior deltoid was recorded for the dominant and the non-dominant side of the body during each attempt. The comparison between the dominant and the non-dominant side was carried out using the limb symmetry index (LSI(%) = (2*(XR - XL)/(XR + XL))*100%) where XR = values of the right side and XL = values of the left side. There was a main effect of condition (p = 0.004; eta(2) = 0.64) and the load (p = 0.004; eta(2) = 0.63) for the triceps brachii LSI in parallel with a main effect of condition (p = 0.003; eta(2) = 0.42) for the anterior deltoid LSI. Post hoc analysis for the main effect of condition showed significant differences in the LSI between the CONT and SS conditions for the triceps brachii (p = 0.003; 1.10% vs. -8.78%) as well as for the anterior deltoid muscles (p = 0.03; 12.91% vs. 9.23%). The results indicate that the assistance of the Sling shot significantly affects the sEMG activity pattern on both the dominant and non-dominant sides of the body while influencing inter-limb asymmetries.		[Wojdala, Grzegorz; Krzysztofik, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Wojciech Korfanty Sch Econ, Dept Med Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Trybulski, Robert] Provita Zory Med Ctr, Zory, Poland; [Bichowska, Marta] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Krzysztofik, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Sports Theory, Mikolowska 72A Str, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600022	39	Article; Article		
J	Feldmann, Andri; Ammann, Linda; Gaechter, Flurin; Zibung, Marc; Erlacher, Daniel								Muscle Oxygen Saturation Breakpoints Reflect Ventilatory Thresholds in Both Cycling and Running								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			87	97		10.2478/hukin-2022-0054			SEP 8 2022	2022	Pulmonary gas exchange analysis was compared to changes in muscle oxygen saturation as measured by near-infrared spectroscopy. First, ventilatory thresholds determined by common gas exchange analysis and breakpoints in muscle oxygen saturation were assessed for agreement during exercise with increasing intensity. Secondly, the relationship between muscle oxygen saturation as a surrogate for local oxygen extraction and peak oxygen uptake was assessed. In order to lend robustness to future NIRS testing on a broader scale, considering its potential for simple and cost-effective application, the question of a running versus a cycling modality was integrated into the design. Ten participants, of whom five were recreationally trained cyclists and five recreationally trained runners, were tested; each during a cycling test and a running test with increasing intensity to voluntary exhaustion. Muscle oxygen saturation and pulmonary gas exchange measurements were conducted. Bland-Altman analysis showed a moderate degree of agreement between both muscle oxygen saturation breakpoint 1 and muscle oxygen saturation breakpoint 2 and corresponding ventilatory threshold 1 and ventilatory threshold 2, for both cycling and running disciplines; generally speaking, muscle oxygen saturation breakpoints underestimated ventilatory thresholds. Additionally, a strong relationship could be seen between peak oxygen uptake and the minimally attained muscle oxygen saturation during cycling exercise. Muscle oxygen saturation measured using NIRS was determined to be a suitable method to assess ventilatory thresholds by finding breakpoints in muscle oxygen saturation, and muscle oxygen saturation minimum was linked to peak oxygen uptake.		[Feldmann, Andri; Ammann, Linda; Gaechter, Flurin; Zibung, Marc; Erlacher, Daniel] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland; [Feldmann, Andri] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600010	34	Article; Article		
J	Yamashita, Yuto; Umemura, Yoshihisa								Effect of High-Intensity, Intermittent, Short-Duration Re-Warming Up on Cycling Sprint Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			131	141		10.2478/hukin-2022-0068			SEP 8 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of warming up again during half-time (i.e., re-warm up [RW]) with high-intensity, intermittent, short-duration exercise on cycling sprint performance. Participants (male, n = 10) performed intermittent cycling exercise for 40 min, followed by a 15-min half-time period with either rest only (control trials [CON]) or rest followed by a RW (three intervals of 3 s of maximal-effort cycling and 27 s of rest [HII]), after which participants performed the Cycling Intermittent-Sprint Protocol (CISP) to evaluate their sprint performance (17.0 +/- 1.4 degrees C, 44.2 +/- 7.0% relative humidity). CISP intervals comprised 10 s rest, 5 s maximal effort cycling, and 105 s active recovery at 50% of the maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max) and were repeated 10 times. All participants performed both trial variations in randomized order. Peak power output of 5-s cycling sprints during the CISP were significantly higher in HII trials than those in CON trials (CON: 813 +/- 109 W, HII: 836 +/- 118 W, p < 0.05). Oxygen uptake, blood lactate concentration, and the rating of perceived exertion at the beginning of the second half after the RW were significantly higher in HII trials than those in CON trials (p < 0.05). These results demonstrate that the RW with intermittent, high-intensity, short-duration exercise improved subsequent cycling sprint performance in a thermoneutral environment and may represent a new useful RW strategy.		[Yamashita, Yuto; Umemura, Yoshihisa] Chukyo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Lab Exercise Physiol & Biomech, 101 Tokodachi,Kaizu Cho, Toyota 4700393, Japan; [Yamashita, Yuto] Chukyo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Lab Exercise Physiol & Biomech, 101 Tokodachi,Kaizu Cho, Toyota 4700393, Japan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600014	44	Article; Article		
J	Asian-Clemente, Jose; Requena, Bermardo; Owen, Adam; Santalla, Alfredo								External Workload Compared Between Competitive and Non-Competitive Matches for Professional Male Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			175	184		10.2478/hukin-2022-0057			SEP 8 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to compare the external load in competitive (official) and non-competitive matches (friendly, training and modified-sided games) in professional soccer players. Time-motion data for 10 elite male soccer players (age = 20.1 +/- 2.1 years; body height = 178.8 +/- 5.9; body mass = 71.4 +/- 7.3; % body fat = 11.0 +/- 1.1 and VO2max = 55.96 +/- 3.3) from a professional Spanish first division team were recorded during official (n = 12), friendly (n = 7) and training (n = 6) matches and a 5 vs. 5 + goalkeepers modified-sided game (n = 3). GPS devices were used to monitor players' external loads: total distance covered, distance covered at different speeds (<13.9 km center dot h(-1), >14, >18, >21 and >25 km center dot h(-1)), peak speed (km center dot h(-1)), and the number of accelerations and decelerations (1.5-2.5 m center dot s(-2), 2.5-4 m center dot s(-2) and 4-8 m center dot s(-2)). One-way analysis of variance of the magnitude-based inference was used to determine differences between matches. Data indicated that official matches scored statistically higher peak speeds (ES = 1.40-2.20). In modified-sided games more total distance was covered at 14 km center dot h(-1) than in regular matches (ES = 0.72-2.21), but lower distances were covered at >21 km center dot h(-1) and >25 km center dot h(-1) than in official and friendly matches (ES = 0.51-2.53) and at >25 km center dot h(-1) than in training matches (ES = 0.92). Likewise, the modified-side games showed a greater number of accelerations and decelerations than other types of matches (ES = 1.46-2.51). This work shows that friendly and training matches, in conjunction with modified-side games, are suitable tools to prepare soccer players for official matches.		[Asian-Clemente, Jose; Santalla, Alfredo] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Dept Sport Sci, Seville, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose; Requena, Bermardo; Santalla, Alfredo] Football Sci Inst, Granada, Spain; [Owen, Adam] Univ Lyon, Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, LIBM EA7424, Villeurbanne, France; [Owen, Adam] Hebei China Fortune Football Club, Langfang Stadium, Hebei, Peoples R China; [Asian-Clemente, Jose] Ctra Utrera 1, Seville 41013, Spain								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600018	30	Article; Article		
J	Cherouveim, Evgenia D.; Methenitis, Spyridon K.; Simeonidis, Theocharis; Georginis, Panagiotis; Tsekouras, Yiannis E.; Biskitzi, Chrisa; Tsolakis, Charis; Koulouvaris, Panagiotis								Validity and Reliability of New Equations for the Prediction of Maximal Oxygen Uptake in Male and Female Elite Adolescent Rowers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			77	86		10.2478/hukin-2022-0053			SEP 8 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to develop accurate, reliable, and reproductive equations for the prediction of maximum oxygen uptake ((V) over dotO(2max)) in male and female high-level adolescent rowers. This study included two parts. In the first part, (V) over dotO(2max) was evaluated in 106 male and 83 female high-level adolescent rowers during an incremental step test (IRT) on a rowing ergometer, and stepwise multiple regression analyses were used for the development of new equations. In the second part, these equations were tested in 26 new high-level adolescent rowers of the same age and anthropometrical characteristics (boys: 15.27 +/- 2.70 yrs and 15.34 +/- 2.80 yrs; 72.37 +/- 10.96 kg and 70.96 +/- 10.65 kg; girls: 15.00 +/- 2.11 yrs and 15.94 +/- 2.71 yrs; 62.50 +/- 7.14 kg and 63.41 +/- 6.72 kg for parts 1 and 2, respectively; p > 0.05). (V) over dotO(2max) was predicted from the combination of lean body mass (LBM) and the distance covered during the last 4 min stage of the IRT (boys: r(2) = 0.715, F = 68.74, p = 0.001; girls: r(2) = 0.769, F = 57.81, p = 0.001). In the second part, no significant differences were identified when the new equations were tested against measured (V) over dotO(2max) (boys: 3971.15 +/- 713.38 mL.min(-1) vs. 3915.83 +/- 704.43 mL.min(-1); girls: 3272.75 +/- 551.46 mL.min(-1) vs. 3308.94 +/- 557.59 mL.min(-1) for measured and predicted values, respectively; p > 0.05). In conclusion, (V) over dotO(2max) of high-level adolescent rowers can be predicted with high accuracy, reliability, and repeatability using simple and easily evaluated anthropometric and performance variables.		[Cherouveim, Evgenia D.; Methenitis, Spyridon K.; Simeonidis, Theocharis; Georginis, Panagiotis; Biskitzi, Chrisa; Tsolakis, Charis; Koulouvaris, Panagiotis] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Hlth Sci, Orthoped Dept 1, Sports Excellence, Athens, Greece; [Cherouveim, Evgenia D.; Methenitis, Spyridon K.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece; [Tsolakis, Charis] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Sports Performance Lab, Athens, Greece; [Tsekouras, Yiannis E.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Hlth Sci & Educ, Dept Nutr & Dietet, Athens, Greece; [Cherouveim, Evgenia D.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Hlth Sci, Orthoped Dept 1, Sports Excellence, Rimini 1, Chaidari 12462, Greece								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600009	27	Article; Article		
J	von Schaumburg, Lauren; Laurson, Kelly R.; Thomas, David Q.; Lagally, Kristen M.								Submaximal Testing to Estimate Aerobic Capacity Using a Matrix C5x Stepmill								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				83	1			121	129		10.2478/hukin-2022-0055			SEP 8 2022	2022	The primary purpose of this study was to determine if the Matrix C5x stepmill's preprogrammed submaximal test is able to accurately predict maximal oxygen uptake. Sixteen participants completed a maximal treadmill test and a preprogrammed submaximal test on a Matrix C5x stepmill. Oxygen uptake was measured using a Cosmed K5 during both tests. Maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) was calculated from submaximal data using a multi-stage calculation and compared against measured VO2max from the maximal test and estimated VO2max from the submaximal stepmill test. METs were also measured during the submaximal test and compared to the METs estimated by the stepmill and METs calculated using submaximal stepping equations. Measured VO2max (39.18 alpha 6.6 ml(.)kg(-1.)min(-1)) was significantly higher (p < 0.001) than estimated VO2max (28.06 alpha 3.2 ml(.)kg(-1.)min(-1)) and calculated VO2max (35.58 alpha 8.0 ml(.)kg(-1.)min(-1)). Measured METs were significantly (p = 0.04) higher than estimated METs in all stages, and higher than calculated METs in stage 1 of the submaximal test. The C5x did not provide accurate estimations of METs or maximal oxygen uptake. Calculating maximal oxygen uptake from submaximal stepmill data may provide an alternative, although development of a new equation may be warranted.		[von Schaumburg, Lauren; Laurson, Kelly R.; Thomas, David Q.; Lagally, Kristen M.] Illinois State Univ, 100 N Univ St, Normal, IL 61761 USA; [Lagally, Kristen M.] Illinois State Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Recreat, Campus Box 5120, Normal, IL 61790 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000850738600013	17	Article; Article		
J	Tooth, Camille; Forthomme, Benedicte; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Gofflot, Amandine; Bornheim, Stephen; Schwartz, Cedric								The Modified-Athletic Shoulder Test: Reliability and validity of a new on-field assessment tool								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				8	15		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.08.003			NOV 2022	2022	Objectives: To assess the reliability and the validity of a modified version of the Athletic Shoulder Test (M-AST), using a handheld dynamometer instead of a force plate.Design: Test-retest reliability and concordance between tools. Setting: University Motion Lab.Participants: Twenty healthy volunteers who practiced an upper limb sport for at least 5 h per week were recruited for the study. Main outcome measures: The concordance between the Athletic Shoulder Test (AST) and the Modified -Athletic Shoulder Test (M-AST) was assessed with intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC), paired T -Test and Bland-Altman plots. The inter-session reliability was assessed with intra-class correlation co-efficients (ICC), SEM, MDC and paired T-Test.Results: A strong concordance was found between AST and M-AST values (ICC = 0.86-0.97; p > 0.05) in all the positions considered and for both sessions. Bland-Altman plots confirmed these results. However, the inter-session reliability was more variable for both AST and M-AST (ICC = 0.643-0.923; p < 0.05).Conclusions: The M-AST seems to be a reliable, cheaper and easier to implement alternative to the AST to measure recovery status following matches or training sessions in upper limb athletes. As for the AST, familiarization trials will have to be performed before the assessment to have accurate measurements. Clinical trials registration number: NCT05112380.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Tooth, Camille; Forthomme, Benedicte; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Gofflot, Amandine; Schwartz, Cedric] Univ Liege, LAM Mot Lab, Liege, Belgium; [Tooth, Camille; Forthomme, Benedicte; Croisier, Jean-Louis; Gofflot, Amandine; Bornheim, Stephen] Univ Liege, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Liege, Belgium; [Tooth, Camille] Allee Sports 4, B-4000 Liege, Belgium; [Tooth, Camille] Allee Sports 4, B-4000 Liege, Belgium								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900001	30	Article; Article		
J	Radel, Luke C.; Jones, Jacob; Garcia, Kyle; Soma, David; Miller, Shane; Sugimoto, Dai								Pediatric hurdle-related acute injuries in track and field presenting to US emergency departments: descriptive epidemiology study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	4			379	386		10.1080/00913847.2022.2120371			JUL 4 2023	2023	Background Hurdling is a track event that is unique due to a combination of running and jumping over an apparatus. Since hurdling requires a special skillset with sprinting and jumping, athletes are at risk for various musculoskeletal injuries. However, there has been a paucity of studies describing the epidemiology of pediatric hurdle injuries. Purpose To examine hurdle-related injury types, injured body parts, injury mechanisms, and injury settings in children and adolescents. Methods Descriptive epidemiology study. Data from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System, which represents emergency room visits, was retrospectively reviewed. Injury data involving hurdle injuries was searched during a 10-year period (2008-2017) with hurdlers 18 years old and younger. Injuries were classified based upon injury types, body parts, injury mechanisms, and injury settings. Descriptive statistics were used including mean +/- standard deviation, frequency (N), and percentages (%). Results A total of 749 hurdle-related injuries were found from 333 males (44.5%) and 416 females (55.5%). The top three injury types were fracture (N = 218, 29.1%), joint sprain (N = 191, 25.5%), and contusion/hematoma/bruise (N = 78, 10.4%). The top three injured body parts were ankle (N = 140, 18.7%), knee (N = 120, 16.0%), and wrist (N = 69, 9.2%). The most common injury mechanisms were apparatus-related trips, falls, and landings (N = 594, 79.0%). Finally, injury settings consisted of track and field practices (N = 469, 62.6%), track and field meets (N = 96, 12.8%), and other settings including gym, physical education class, recess, school activities, and camps (N = 49, 6.5%). Conclusion In pediatric hurdle athletes, the most prevalent injury type seen in the emergency room was fracture. Although most hurdle-related injuries occur in the lower extremity, wrist injuries were the third most commonly injured body location. The most common injury mechanism was apparatus-related trip, fall, and landing, and injuries most commonly occurred during track practices. In pediatric hurdle athletes seen in the emergency room, majority of injuries consisted of traumatic fractures and joint sprains at ankle, knee, and wrist, which frequently occurred with apparatus-related trip, fall, and landing mechanisms during track and field practices.		[Radel, Luke C.; Soma, David] Mayo Clin, Div Community Pediat & Adolescent Med, Dept Pediat & Adolescent Med, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Jones, Jacob; Miller, Shane] Scottish Rite Children, Dept Pediat Sports Med, Dallas, TX USA; [Jones, Jacob; Miller, Shane] Univ Texas Southwestern, Dept Pediat, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Dallas, TX USA; [Garcia, Kyle] Univ Arizona, Dept Urol, Tucson, AZ USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Radel, Luke C.] Mayo Clin, Div Community Pediat & Adolescent Med, Dept Pediat & Adolescent Med, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000850878700001	22	Article; Article		
J	Buckley, Thomas A.; Bryk, Kelsey N.; Hunzinger, Katherine J.; Costantini, Katelyn								National Collegiate Athletic Association athletic trainers' response to the Arrington settlement: management, compliance, and practice patterns								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	5			427	433		10.1080/00913847.2022.2118001			SEP 3 2023	2023	The primary purpose of this study was to assess Athletic Trainers' (ATs) report of NCAA member institution compliance with the Arrington settlement, the concussion lawsuit vs. the NCAA, and to elucidate compliance predictors. A secondary purpose was to provide a contemporary concussion management clinical practice pattern description among NCAA collegiate athletic trainers. Head Athletic Trainers from NCAA Division I, II, and III completed an electronic questionnaire in August 2020 regarding their institution's response to the Arrington Settlement and their current concussion management clinical practice patterns. The 37-item questionnaire included AT and institution demographics, current concussion management policies, and response to the Arrington settlement with a specific focus on the five settlement requirements. An overall compliance score on the five requirements, compliance on the individual requirements, and concussion management practices are reported with descriptives. Regression was used to identify specific predictors of both overall and individual settlement requirements. An ANOVA compared compliance by NCAA division level. Being pressured to be non-compliant was assessed between sexes by a chi-square. There were 223 respondents (21.8%), and overall compliance was high (4.1 +/- 0.7) with the five required Arrington Settlement components. Settlement requirement 1, pre-season baseline testing, and requirement 5, presence of trained personnel at all contact sport practices, had the lowest compliance rates at 44.8% and 73.3%, respectively. The number of sports the institution offered was the only significant predictor of each requirement. There was no difference in compliance between NCAA divisions. Although the overall rate of being non-compliant pressure was low (13.8%), females were 3.28x more likely report being pressured than males. NCAA institutions are generally compliant with the Arrington settlement; however, lack of clarity in the requirements, particularly requirement 1, raises potential concerns. Concussion management practices continue to incorporate multifaceted approaches and are largely consistent with current best practices.		[Buckley, Thomas A.; Costantini, Katelyn] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, 349 Star Tower,100 Discovery Blvd, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Buckley, Thomas A.] Univ Delaware, Interdisciplinary Program Biomech & Movement Sci, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Bryk, Kelsey N.] Neurotrack Inc, Redwood City, CA USA; [Hunzinger, Katherine J.] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Dept Epidemiol Biostat & Informat, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Buckley, Thomas A.] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, 349 Star Tower,100 Discovery Blvd, Newark, DE 19716 USA								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000850608600001	38	Article; Article		
J	Roberts, Charlie J.; Gill, Nicholas D.; Beaven, Christopher M.; Posthumus, Logan R.; Sims, Stacy T.								Application of a nutrition support protocol to encourage optimisation of nutrient intake in provincial academy rugby union athletes in New Zealand: Practical considerations and challenges from a team-based case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2263	2276		10.1177/17479541221124119			DEC 2023	2023	Provincial academies represent an important bridge between amateur and professional level rugby union in New Zealand. Athletes are provided with professional-level coaching; however, limited direct nutrition support is available. Congested training schedules and the requirement to work or study due to a lack of financial support may present a challenge towards athletes meeting nutrition requirements. The aim of the study was to facilitate improvement in nutrient intake, body composition and subjective well-being in provincial academy athletes via the implementation of a nutrition-support protocol based around behaviour change techniques. Significant increases in total energy (pre: 2492 +/- 762 kcal; post: 2614 +/- 625 kcal), relative energy (pre: 24.4 +/- 7.5 kcal center dot kg; 25.5 +/- 6.0 kcal center dot kg), total protein (pre: 131.1 +/- 41.8 g; 153.8 +/- 37.1 g) and relative protein (pre: 1.3 +/- 0.4 g center dot kg; post: 1.5 +/- 0.3 g center dot kg) were observed. Furthermore, changes in subjective sleep quality, stress, mood and upper body soreness were observed following the intervention. No changes were observed in body composition, carbohydrate or fat intake. Significant variability in nutrition and body composition changes highlights the importance of applying an individualised approach to nutrition support provision in developmental athletes. Practitioners working within these environments should be aware of the challenges and influences contributing to athletes' nutrition choices and habits.		[Roberts, Charlie J.] Univ Northampton, Fac Arts Sci & Technol, Northampton, England; [Roberts, Charlie J.; Gill, Nicholas D.; Beaven, Christopher M.; Posthumus, Logan R.; Sims, Stacy T.] Univ Waikato, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Gill, Nicholas D.; Posthumus, Logan R.] New Zealand Rugby Union, Wellington, New Zealand; [Gill, Nicholas D.; Sims, Stacy T.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Posthumus, Logan R.] Toi Ohomai Inst Technol, Fac Hlth Educ & Environm, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Roberts, Charlie J.] Univ Northampton, Sch Sci & Technol, Fac Arts Sci & Technol, Waterside Campus,Univ Dr, Northampton NN1 5PH, England								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000851297900001	71	Article; Article		
J	Hensley, Craig P.; Kontos, Dena; Feldman, Carly; Wafford, Q. Eileen; Wright, Alexis; Chang, Alison H.								Reliability and validity of 2-dimensional video analysis for a running task: A systematic review								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				58				16	33		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.08.001			NOV 2022	2022	Objective: Evaluate the reliability and validity of 2-dimensional (2D) video-based motion analysis during running.Methods: A systematic search of MEDLINE, Cochrane Library, EMBASE, CINAHL, PEDro, SPORTDiscus, and IEEE Xplore was conducted in March 2020 and updated in May 2021. We included studies assessing reliability and/or validity of 2D video-based motion analysis (gold standard: 3D motion analysis) during running.Results: 11 studies (251 runners; mean age range: 18.7-37.0 years; 57.4% female; 63.7% injury-free) met inclusion criteria. Eight studies examined kinematics of the pelvis/hip, eight of the knee, and six of the ankle/foot. Low-to-moderate risk of bias was present in all studies. Heterogeneous study designs, measurement methods, and statistical approaches across studies precluded statistical synthesis. Intra-rater reliability [Interclass correlation coefficient (ICC) range: 0.56-1.00; kappa range: 0.49-0.81] was better than interrater reliability (ICC range: 0.31-1.00; kappa range 0.00-0.85). ICC values for validity were poor to good (0.06-0.89). One study examining foot strike pattern found good to excellent validity (using Gwet AC statistics) when movement kinematics were categorized.Conclusions: A wide range of methods were reported in 2D video-based motion analysis of joint angular kinematics during a running task. Further research to develop standardized 2D video-based motion analysis for running is needed. Categorizing movement patterns may be more useful than angularly quantifying joint kinematics.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hensley, Craig P.; Kontos, Dena; Feldman, Carly; Chang, Alison H.] Northwestern Univ, Feinberg Sch Med, Dept Phys Therapy & Human Movement Sci, 645 N Michigan Ave,Suite 1100, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Wafford, Q. Eileen] Northwestern Univ, Galter Hlth Sci Lib, 320 E Super St, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Wafford, Q. Eileen] Northwestern Univ, Learning Ctr, 320 E Super St, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Wright, Alexis] Tufts Univ, Sch Med, Phys Therapy Program, 136 Harrison Ave, Boston, MA 02111 USA; [Chang, Alison H.] Northwestern Univ, Feinberg Sch Med, Dept Phys Therapy & Human Movement Sci, 645 N Michigan Ave 1100, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Chang, Alison H.] Northwestern Univ, Feinberg Sch Med, Dept Phys Therapy & Human Movement Sci, 645 N Michigan Ave 1100, Chicago, IL 60611 USA								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000877591900002	51	Article; Article		
J	DeWolfe, Christopher E. J.; Dithurbide, Lori								Beware of the blues: Wellbeing of coaches and support staff throughout the Olympic Games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1243	1257		10.1177/17479541221116880			DEC 2022	2022	Being involved in major sporting events, such as the Olympic Games, is a known stressor. A growing body of evidence has found the post-Olympic period to be a particularly difficult time for athletes, leading to depression-like symptoms. The impact of major sporting events on coaches' and support staffs' wellbeing is relatively unknown. The purpose of this study was to examine the experience of wellbeing for coaches and support staff post-Olympic Games. This included pre-Olympic Games and during-Olympic Games experiences that may contribute to post-Olympic challenges. Eight coaches and support staff who attended the Olympic Games completed semi-structured interviews and visual timelines to describe their wellbeing throughout the Olympic Games. Using interpretative phenomenological analysis, themes and timelines were generated that reflect the participants' wellbeing experience. Participants described the Olympic experience as a "rollercoaster ride" of emotions, including feelings of excitement, exhaustion and low mood. The post-Olympic period was a time of particular difficulty. Suggestions to improve the wellbeing for individuals who attend the Olympic Games were identified.		[DeWolfe, Christopher E. J.; Dithurbide, Lori] Dalhousie Univ, Dept Psychol & Neurosci, 1355 Oxford St,Rm 3263,POB 15000, Halifax, NS B3H 4R2, Canada; [DeWolfe, Christopher E. J.; Dithurbide, Lori] Canadian Sport Inst Atlantic, Halifax, NS, Canada; [Dithurbide, Lori] Dalhousie Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Halifax, NS, Canada; [DeWolfe, Christopher E. J.] Dalhousie Univ, Dept Psychol & Neurosci, 1355 Oxford St,Rm 3263,POB 15000, Halifax, NS B3H 4R2, Canada								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000850649100001	39	Article; Article		
J	Campbell, Rhiannon A.; Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.; Ball, Nick; Hunter, Adam; Spratford, Wayne								The use of inertial measurement units to quantify forearm loading and symmetry during gymnastics vault training sessions								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	2			204	221		10.1080/14763141.2022.2117642			FEB 1 2023	2023	The upper limbs are important in gymnastics vaulting, as the success of the flight phase is dependent on a quick and forceful push-off from the vault. This places the upper limbs under stress, which has been associated with pain and injury. This study aimed to quantify forearm segmental loading and symmetry when performing foundation to advanced-level vaulting skills during training. Twelve advanced-level artistic gymnasts (female, n = 6; male, n = 6) wore bilaterally forearm-mounted inertial measurement units while completing their vaulting sessions. The peak resultant acceleration for the leading and non-leading forearms during contact were calculated. Female gymnasts performed variations of Yurchenko vaults, while male gymnasts performed Handspring and Tsukahara vaults. Descriptive statistics (median and interquartile range), symmetry index scores, and total session impact load (measure of cumulative loading) were calculated between the lead and non-lead forearms. High asymmetrical loading was identified for some Yurchenko, Handspring, and Tsukahara vaults, with large variations identified between gymnasts. Some gymnasts experienced greater loading at their lead forearm, while others experienced greater loading at their non-lead forearm. Results indicate that limb loading patterns in advanced gymnastics are highly individualised, indicating that individual analysis is needed to identify gymnasts (or limbs) at an increased risk for overuse injury.		[Campbell, Rhiannon A.] Macquarie Univ, Fac Med Hlth & Human Sci, Dept Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Ball, Nick; Spratford, Wayne] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Ball, Nick; Spratford, Wayne] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Hunter, Adam] Australian Inst Sport, Performance Serv, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Campbell, Rhiannon A.] Macquarie Univ, Fac Med Hlth & Human Sci, Dept Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000850615100001	38	Article; Article		
J	Ferdinands, Rene E. D.; Fuss, Franz Konstantin; Sabnis, Kashmira								A post-COVID-19 proposal to apply artificial saliva substitutes to polish the cricket ball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2259	2262		10.1177/17479541221122388			DEC 2023	2023	The COVID-19 pandemic has caused administrators to issue a major change in the playing regulations of cricket. For hygienic reasons, the historic practice of applying saliva to polish one side of the cricket ball has been banned. Fast bowlers feel that this regulation will limit their ability to swing the cricket ball. Wax-like substances have been suggested as a replacement, but the concern is that they may generate excessively high swing forces, unfairly disadvantaging the batters. Instead, we suggest that artificial polishing substances that more closely resemble the properties of saliva, such as alpha-amylase, and mucin-based and Aloe vera-based saliva substitutes could produce swing forces on the ball that are more in keeping with the traditions of the sport. Wind-tunnel experiments will be necessary to develop suitable artificial polishing agents that bowlers can use at all levels of competition.		[Ferdinands, Rene E. D.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia; [Fuss, Franz Konstantin] Univ Bayreuth, Fac Engn Sci, Chair Biomech, Bayreuth, Germany; [Sabnis, Kashmira] Bharati Vidyapeeths Jawaharlal Nehru Inst Technol, Sports Physiotherapy, Pune, Maharashtra, India; [Ferdinands, Rene E. D.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000849907700001	28	Article; Article		
J	Puel, Frederic; Hellard, Philippe; Pyne, David B.; Morlier, Julien								Technical Skills Influences on Front Crawl Tumble Turn Performance in Elite Female Swimmers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	3			571	581		10.52082/jssm.2023.571			SEP 2023	2023	The objective of this research was to compare technical skills composed of kinematic and kinetic variables in the complex motor task of a tumble turn between 9 elites and 9 sub-elite female swimmers. The best tumble turn among three attempts was analyzed using a three-dimensional underwater protocol. A total of 37 kinematic variables were derived from a Direct Linear Transformation algorithm for 3D reconstruction, and 16 kinetic variables measured by a piezoelectric 3D force platform. Data were analyzed by Student's t-test and effect size statistics. Pearson correlations were applied to the data of the eighteen swimmers to relate the association of 53 kinematic, kinetic variables to the performance of the tumble-turn (3 meters Round Trip Time, 3m RTT). The approach and the whole turn times were faster for elite swimmers compared to sub elites (1.09 +/- 0.06 vs. 1.23 +/- 0.08 sec, and 2.89 +/- 0.07 vs. 3.15 +/- 0.11 sec.), as well as the horizontal speeds of the swimmers' head 1 m before the rotation (1.73 +/- 0.13 vs. 1.57 +/- 0.13 m/sec.), at the end of the push-off on force platform (2.55 +/- 0.15 vs. 2.31 +/- 0.22 m/sec.) and 3 m after the wall (2.01 +/- 0.19 vs. 1.68 +/- 0.12 m/sec.). Large differences (|d| > 0.8) in favor of the elite swimmers were identified for the index of upper body extension at the beginning of the push-off, the lower limb extension index at the end of push-off, and among the kinetic variables, the horizontal impulse and lateralization of the push-off. Correlations for the whole group revealed a moderate to strong relationship between 6 body extension indices and 3mRTT performance. For the kinetic variables, the correlations indicated the fastest swimmers in 3mRTT showed large lateral impulse during placement (r=0.46), maximum horizontal force during the push-off (r=0.45) and lateralization of the push-off (r=0.44) (all p<0.05). Elite female swimmers had higher approach and push-off speeds, were more streamlined through the contact, and showed a higher horizontal impulse and lateralization of the push-off, than their sub-elite counterparts.		[Puel, Frederic] Univ Reims, Lab Performance St Metrol Soc EA 7507, Reims, France; [Hellard, Philippe] CREPS Resource & Expertise Ctr Sports Performance, Bordeaux, France; [Hellard, Philippe] Univ Rouen, CETAPS, EA3832, Rouen, France; [Pyne, David B.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Morlier, Julien] Univ Bordeaux, IMS, CNRS, UMR5218,PMH-DySCo, Talence, France; [Hellard, Philippe] CREPS Resource & Expertise Ctr Sports Performance, Bordeaux, France; [Hellard, Philippe] Univ Rouen, CETAPS, EA3832, Rouen, France								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:001073100800001	59	Article; Article		
J	Neto, Victor H. Gasparini; Neves, Leticia N. Santos; Kalva-Filho, Carlos A.; Schwingel, Paulo A.; Leite, Richard D.; Carletti, Luciana								Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing with Elastic Resistance: A New Reproducible Proposal for Determination of Ventilatory Thresholds and Maximum Oxygen Consumption								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			426	434		10.52082/jssm.2022.426			SEP 2022	2022	To propose a new Cardiopulmonary Exercise Test with Elastic Resistance (CPxEL) and compare the physiological responses to conventional cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPx) performed on a treadmill. In addition, we tested the reproducibility of the CPxEL. Twenty-four physically active participants completed the CPx (first session) and CPxEL twice (second and third sessions) interspersed by seven days. A treadmill protocol with increments of 1km center dot h(-1) every minute until exhaustion was used in CPx. The CPxEL consisted of performing alternating steps back-and-forth against an elastic resistance attached to a belt and an incremental protocol with 1 stage (S) per minute following a cadence of 200 bpm controlled by a metronome in an 8-stage rubber mat. First analysis: first ventilatory threshold (VT1) occurred at 69.7% and 75.3% of maximal heart rate (HRmax) and 53.5% and 65.7% of maximal oxygen consumption ((V) over dotO(2max)). Second VT (VT2) occurred at 93.3% and 96.8% of the HRmax and 87.0% and 96.9% of (V) over dotO(2max) for CPx and CPxEL, respectively. At exhaustion, (V) over dotO(2max), perceived exertion (BORG-CR10 and OMNI-RES EB), and test duration presented lower values for CPxEL (P < 0.05). Second analysis: VT1 occurred at warm-up (S0) (P = 0.731), VT2 occurred at S5 (P = 0.912), and the exhaustion occurred at S6 and S7 (P = 0.271) for CPxEL and retest, respectively. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) for (V) over dotO(2max) was 0.921 and for HRmax was 0.930. The CPxEL has good test-retest reproducibility and represents a possible and interesting add-on to determine maximal oxygen consumption, maximal heart rate, and second ventilatory threshold without using traditional ergometers.		[Neto, Victor H. Gasparini; Neves, Leticia N. Santos; Leite, Richard D.; Carletti, Luciana] Fed Univ Espirito Santo UFES, Ctr Phys Educ & Sports CEFD, Lab Exercise Physiol LAFEX, Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Kalva-Filho, Carlos A.] Fed Univ Alagoas UFAL, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Lab Appl Sports Sci LACAE, Maceio, Alagoas, Brazil; [Schwingel, Paulo A.] Univ Pernambuco UPE, Human Performance Res Lab, Petrolina, PE, Brazil; [Neto, Victor H. Gasparini] Ave Fernando Ferrari 514, BR-29075910 Vitoria, ES, Brazil								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000860554600001	38	Article; Article		
J	Chainok, Phornpot; Lauer, Jessy; Goncalves, Pedro; de Jesus, Karla; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo								Backstroke-to-Breaststroke Turns Muscular Activity. A Study Conducted in Age Group Swimmers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			402	412		10.52082/jssm.2022.402			SEP 2022	2022	The aims of this study were to compare surface electromyographic (EMG) activity and kinematic variables among open, somersault, bucket and crossover backstroke-to-breaststroke turning techniques, and identify relationships between the integrated electromyography (iEMG) and kinematics profile focusing on the rotation and push-off efficacy. Following a four-week of systematically increasing contextual interference intervention program, eight 12.38 +/- 0.55 years old male swimmers randomly performed twelve repetitions (three in each technique) turns in and out of the wall at maximum speed until the 7.5 m reference mark. Surface EMG values of the right vastus lateralis, biceps femoris, tibialis anterior, gastrocnemius medialis, rectus abdominis, external oblique, erector spinae and latissimus dorsi were recorded and processed using the integrated electromyography (iEMG) and the total integrated electromyography (TiEMG) that was expressed as a percentage of iEMGmax to normalize per unit of time for each rotation and push-off phase. Complementarily, 2D sagittal views from an underwater video camera were digitized to determine rotation and push-off efficacy. The crossover turn presented the highest rotation and push-off iEMG values. Erector spinae and gastrocnemius medialis had the highest activity in the rotation and push-off phases (89 +/- 10 and 98 +/- 69%, respectively). TiEMG depicted a very high activity of lower limb muscles during push-off activity (222 +/- 17 to 247 +/- 16%). However, there were no relation between TiEMG and rotation and push-off time, tuck index and final push-off velocity during the rotation and the push-off phases across all the studied turning techniques. The rotation efficacy in age-group swimmers were dependent on rotation time (p = 0.04). The different turning techniques were not distinguishable regarding iEMG activity as a possible determinant of rotation and push-off efficacy. Our study has direct implications for selecting appropriate exercises and designing training programs for optimizing the rotation and push-off phases of backstroke-to-breaststroke turning at young ages.		[Chainok, Phornpot] Burapha Univ, Fac Sport, Chon Buri, Thailand; [Chainok, Phornpot; Lauer, Jessy; Goncalves, Pedro; de Jesus, Karla; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Lauer, Jessy; Goncalves, Pedro; de Jesus, Karla; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [de Jesus, Karla] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Chainok, Phornpot] Burapha Univ, Fac Sport, Chon Buri, Thailand; [Chainok, Phornpot] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:001009466300001	66	Article; Article		
J	Paul, Lara; Davidow, Demi; James, Gwyneth; Ross, Tayla; Lambert, Mike; Burger, Nicholas; Jones, Ben; Rennie, Gordon; Hendricks, Sharief								Tackle Technique and Changes in Playerload™ During a Simulated Tackle: An Exploratory Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			383	393		10.52082/jssm.2022.383			SEP 2022	2022	In collision sports, the tackle has the highest injury incidence, and is key to a successful performance. Although the contact load of players has been measured using microtechnology, this has not been related to tackle technique. The aim of this study was to explore how PlayerLoad (TM) changes between different levels of tackling technique during a simulated tackle. Nineteen rugby union players performed twelve tackles on a tackle contact simulator (n = 228 tackles). Each tackle was recorded with a video-camera and each player wore a Catapult OptimEyeS5. Tackles were analysed using tackler proficiency criteria and split into three categories: Low scoring(<= 5 Arbitrary units (AU), medium scoring(6 and 7AU) and high scoring tackles(>= 8AU). High scoring tackles recorded a higher PlayerLoad (TM) at tackle completion. The PlayerLoad (TM) trace was also less variable in the high scoring tackles. The variability in the PlayerLoad (TM) trace may be a consequence of players not shortening their steps before contact. This reduced their ability to control their movement during the contact and post-contact phase of the tackle and increased the variability. Using the PlayerLoad (TM) trace in conjunction with subjective technique assessments offers coaches and practitioners insight into the physical-technical relationship of each tackle to optimise tackle skill training and match preparation.		[Paul, Lara; Davidow, Demi; James, Gwyneth; Ross, Tayla; Lambert, Mike; Burger, Nicholas; Jones, Ben; Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Physiol Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben; Rennie, Gordon; Hendricks, Sharief] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, England; [Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Manchester, Lancashire, England; [Jones, Ben] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Paul, Lara; Davidow, Demi] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Lifestyle & Sport Res Ctr HPALS, Dept Human Biol, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben] Catapult Sports, Melbourne, Derbyshire, England; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, ZA-7725 Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, ZA-7725 Cape Town, South Africa								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000855193200001	55	Article; Article		
J	Jeong, Guyeol; Chun, Buongo								Differences in Sports Injury Types According to Taekwondo Athlete Types (Sparring, Poomsae, and Demonstration)								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			473	481		10.52082/jssm.2022.473			SEP 2022	2022	The objective of this study was to investigate the range of injuries according to the competition format type of Taekwondo (spar-ring, poomsae, and demonstration) and compare the level of inju-ries to provide basic data for preventing injuries among Taekwondo athletes. Data were collected through a survey of 472 Taekwondo athletes using convenience sampling and self-admin-istration methods. The most frequently injured body part was the ankle for sparring (54.03%) and demonstration (55.09%) athletes and the pelvis for poomsae (36.36%) athletes (x2 = 111.556, p < 0.001). The most frequent injury type was sprain for poomsae (36.40%) and demonstration (52.30%) athletes and fracture for sparring (49.40%) athletes (x2 = 127.752, p < 0.001). The most frequently reported cause of injury was excessive training and chronic fatigue (x2 = 50.251, p < 0.001). All three types of athletes showed a higher proportion of injury at the training location than at the competition location. The period for the return to training was <= 1 week for sparring (40.80%) and poomsae (64.10%) ath-letes but 2 -3 weeks for demonstration (27.8%) athletes (x2 = 45.582, p < 0.001). Diverse strategies, ranging from wearing pro-tective gear to adopting a conditioning strategy and psychological training, are needed for each competition format of Taekwondo to prevent injuries in daily training.		[Jeong, Guyeol] Sunchon Natl Univ, Coll Humanities & Arts, Dept Social Phys Educ, Sunchon, South Korea; [Chun, Buongo] Myongji Univ, Coll Arts & Phys Educ, Grad Sch Phys Educ, Yongin, South Korea; [Chun, Buongo] Myongji Univ, Grad Sch Phys Educ, 116 Myongji Ro, Yongin 17058, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Chun, Buongo] Myongji Univ, Grad Sch Phys Educ, 116 Myongji Ro, Yongin 17058, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000853274900001	35	Article; Article		
J	Reichel, Thomas; Hacker, Sebastian; Palmowski, Jana; Bosslau, Tim Konstantin; Frech, Torsten; Tirekoglou, Paulos; Weyh, Christopher; Bothur, Evita; Samel, Stefan; Walscheid, Ruediger; Krueger, Karsten								Neurophysiological Markers for Monitoring Exercise and Recovery Cycles in Endurance Sports								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			446	457		10.52082/jssm.2022.446			SEP 2022	2022	The current study analyzes the suitability and reliability of selected neurophysiological and vegetative nervous system markers as biomarkers for exercise and recovery in endurance sport. Sixtytwo healthy men and women, endurance trained and moderately trained, performed two identical acute endurance tests (running trial 1 and running trial 2) followed by a washout period of four weeks. Exercise protocol consisted of an acute running trial lasting 60 minutes. An intensity corresponding to 95% of the heart rate at individual anaerobic threshold for 40 minutes was followed by 20 minutes at 110%. At pre-exercise, post-exercise, three hours post-exercise and 24 hours post-exercise, experimental diagnostics on Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), heart rate variability (HRV), Stroop Color and Word Test (SCWT), and Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ) were performed. Significant changes over time were found for all tistical significance in the interaction between gender and training status in BDNF regulation (F(3) = 2.43; p = 0.06), while gender were found for BDNF, Stroop sensitivity and pNN50, while all Plasma-BDNF, SCWT performance, pain perception and all due to its vaguely reliability.		[Reichel, Thomas; Hacker, Sebastian; Palmowski, Jana; Bosslau, Tim Konstantin; Frech, Torsten; Tirekoglou, Paulos; Weyh, Christopher; Krueger, Karsten] Justus Liebig Univ Giessen, Inst Sports Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol & Sports Therapy, Kugelberg 62, D-35394 Giessen, Germany; [Bothur, Evita; Samel, Stefan; Walscheid, Ruediger] Med Ctr Lab Med & Microbiol, Koblenz Mittelrhein, Germany; [Reichel, Thomas] Justus Liebig Univ Giessen, Inst Sports Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol & Sports Therapy, Kugelberg 62, D-35394 Giessen, Germany								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000849339400001	59	Article; Article		
J	Soto-Garcia, Diego; Reynoso-Sanchez, Luis F.; Garcia-Herrero, Juan A.; Gomez-Lopez, Manuel; Carcedo, Rodrigo J.								Coach competence, justice, and authentic leadership: An athlete satisfaction model								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			361	369		10.1177/17479541221122411			APR 2023	2023	This study analyzed the relationship between athletes' perception of coach competence and their satisfaction, mediated by the influence of authentic leadership and perceived justice in team sports players. A cross-sectional study carried out with 115 (49.6% women and 50.4% men; 17.96 +/- 2.85 years old; 8.18 +/- 4.67 years of experience), soccer (53.9%), and handball (46.1%) players, all members of performance teams. The player's perception of coach competency, authentic leadership, justice, and satisfaction with the coach was measured. Correlation between variables and comparison throughout gender, sport, and experience were analyzed. Also, a multiple sequential mediation model was tested (coach competence -> authentic leadership -> coach justice -> satisfaction with the coach, 95% CI 10,000 bootstrapping). There was a significant relationship (p < 0.05) between all the variables, differences in the perception of satisfaction with the coach based on sport, and the perception of coach justice related to the years of experience in the sport. The multiple sequential mediation model (2 = 0.468; p < 0.001; IE = 0.098; CI = 0.020; 0.183), and the total indirect effect (IE = 0.310; CI = 0.138; 0.479) were significant. In conclusion, the results suggest that athletes emphasize that if the coach is competent and promotes justice to achieve the athlete's satisfaction without neglecting the influence of their authentic leadership style, this can strengthen their relationship and satisfaction with the coach.		[Soto-Garcia, Diego] Univ Leon, Dept Phys & Sport Educ, Leon, Spain; [Soto-Garcia, Diego] Univ Leon, Grp Res AMRED, Leon, Spain; [Reynoso-Sanchez, Luis F.] Autonomous Univ Occident, Dept Social Sci & Humanities, Macario Gaxiola Carretera Int, Los Mochis 81223, Sinaloa, Mexico; [Garcia-Herrero, Juan A.] Univ Salamanca, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Salamanca, Spain; [Gomez-Lopez, Manuel] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Carcedo, Rodrigo J.] Univ Salamanca, Dept Dev & Educ Psychol, Salamanca, Spain; [Reynoso-Sanchez, Luis F.] Autonomous Univ Occident, Dept Social Sci & Humanities, Macario Gaxiola Carretera Int, Los Mochis 81223, Sinaloa, Mexico								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000848344800001	55	Article; Article		
J	Paul, James D.; Cheng, Albert A.; Greene, Jay P.; McGee, Josh B.								The Value of College Athletics in the Labor Market: Results from a Resume Audit Field Experiment								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	3			329	351		10.1177/15270025221123315			APR 2023	2023	Employers may favor applicants who played college sports if athletics participation contributes to leadership, conscientiousness, discipline, and other traits that are desirable for labor-market productivity. We conduct a resume audit to estimate the causal effect of listing collegiate athletics on employer callbacks and test for subgroup effects by ethnicity, gender, and sport type. We applied to more than 450 jobs on a large, well-known job board. For each job listing, we submitted two fictitious resumes, one of which was randomly assigned to include collegiate varsity athletics. Overall, listing a college sport does not produce a statistically significant change in the likelihood of receiving a callback or interview request. We find no statistically significant differences within ethnicities or genders.		[Paul, James D.; Cheng, Albert A.; McGee, Josh B.] Univ Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR 72701 USA; [Greene, Jay P.] Heritage Fdn, Washington, DC 20002 USA; [Paul, James D.] 751 W Maple Ave, Fayetteville, AR 72701 USA								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000849069800001	54	Article; Article		
J	Wilke, Jan; Schwiete, Carsten; Behringer, Michael								Effects of Maximal Eccentric Exercise on Deep Fascia Stiffness of the Knee Flexors: A Pilot Study using Shear-Wave Elastography								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			419	425		10.52082/jssm.2022.419			SEP 2022	2022	The deep fascia is intimately linked to skeletal muscle and may be involved in delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS). The present study therefore explored the effect of eccentric exercise on fascia stiffness and its relation with DOMS. Healthy active male adults (n = 19, 27 +/- 4 years) performed 6 x 10 maximal eccentric knee flexions using an isokinetic dynamometer. Before (baseline) as well as immediately (T0), 1 hour (T1), and each day up to 72 hours (T24 to T72) afterwards, shear wave elastography was used to measure the mechanical stiffness of the biceps femoris muscle and the overlying fascia. As a surrogate of DOMS, pain upon pal-pation was captured by means of a 100mm visual analogue scale. While muscle stiffness remained unchanged (p > 0.05), deep fascia stiffness increased from baseline to T24 (median: 18 kPa to 21.12 kPa, p = 0.017) and T72 (median: 18 kPa to 21.3 kPa, p = 0.001) post-exercise. Linear regression showed an association of stiffness changes at T24 and pressure pain at T72 (r(2) = 0.22, p < 0.05). Maximal eccentric exercise leads to a stiffening of the fas-cia, which, in turn, is related to the magnitude of future DOMS. Upcoming research should therefore gauge the effectiveness of interventions modifying the mechanical properties of the connective tissue in order to accelerate recovery.		[Wilke, Jan] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Med, Frankfurt, Germany; [Wilke, Jan] Univ Klagenfurt, Dept Movement Sci, Klagenfurt, Austria; [Schwiete, Carsten; Behringer, Michael] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Dept Sports Med & Exercise Physiol, Frankfurt, Germany; [Wilke, Jan] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Med, Frankfurt, Germany; [Wilke, Jan] Univ Klagenfurt, Dept Movement Sci, Klagenfurt, Austria								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000842450600001	37	Article; Article		
J	Chow, Chi-Ching Gary; Kong, Yu-Hin; Wong, Chi-Ling								Reactive-Agility in Touch Plays an Important Role in Elite Playing Level: Reliability and Validity of a Newly Developed Repeated Up-and-Down Agility Test								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			413	418		10.52082/jssm.2022.413			SEP 2022	2022	Successful athletes are better at performing efficiently than the inferior in particular sports scenarios, while most existing performance tests in the field do not cover the sport-specific context fully. There were two purposes in this study: 1) to evaluate the reliability and validity of a novel Sector Reactive Agility Test (SRAT) which mimicked a reactive-agility defensive scenario in Touch, and 2) to determine the relationships between Touch players' agility and sprint performance. Twenty male Touch players from the elite division and another 20 from the amateur division were invited to participate in this study. They performed SRAT and a 20-m sprint test in two days. Excellent reliability and high precision were found in SRAT (intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC] = 0.97) and 20-m sprint test (ICC = 0.91). The time of completion in SRAT of the elite Touch players (23.93 s) was 2.95 s significantly shorter than that of the amateur players with a large effect size. Elite Touch players also demonstrated moderately faster (0.11 s) than the amateur Touch players in the 20-m sprint test. SRAT demonstrated high test-retest reliability and accuracy in measuring reactive-agility performance in Touch. The minimal detectable changes in SRAT and 20-m sprint test were 1.04 s and 0.13 s respectively. Furthermore, the speed of the 20-m sprint test and playing experience were associated with the time of completion of SRAT, explaining 56% of its variance (p < 0.001). Other factors, such as cognition and the ability to control own central gravity, are deemed possible to influence Touch players' agility. Therefore, SRAT should be adopted in Touch player selection and training monitoring.		[Chow, Chi-Ching Gary; Kong, Yu-Hin; Wong, Chi-Ling] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Chow, Chi-Ching Gary] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000842450800001	36	Article; Article		
J	Ishida, Tomoya; Samukawa, Mina; Endo, Daisuke; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu								Effects of Changing Center of Pressure Position on Knee and Ankle Extensor Moments During Double-Leg Squatting								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			341	346		10.52082/jssm.2022.341			SEP 2022	2022	The effects of changes in the anterior-posterior center of pressure (AP-COP) position on the lower limb joint moments during double-leg squatting remain unclear. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of AP-COP positional changes on the hip, knee, and ankle extensor moments during double-leg squatting. Sixteen male participants (22.1 +/- 1.5 years) performed double-leg squatting under two conditions (anterior and posterior COP conditions) with visual feedback on their COP positions. Kinematics and kinetics were analyzed using a three-dimensional motion analysis system and force plates. The hip, knee and ankle flexion angles and extensor moments at peak vertical ground reaction force were compared between the two conditions using paired t tests. The COP position was 53.5 +/- 2.4% of the foot length, starting from the heel, under the anterior condition and 44.4 +/- 2.1% under the posterior condition (P < 0.001). The knee extensor moment was significantly smaller under the anterior than the posterior COP condition (P = 0.003, 95% confidence interval (CI) -0.087 to -0.021 Nm/kg/m), while the ankle extensor moment significantly larger under the anterior COP condition than under the posterior COP condition (P < 0.001, 95% CI 0.113 to 0.147 Nm/kg/m). There was no significant difference in hip extensor moment (P = 0.431). The ankle dorsiflexion angle was significantly larger under the anterior than the posterior COP condition (P = 0.003, 95% CI 0.6 to 2.6 degrees), while there was no difference in trunk, hip, or knee flexion angle. The present results indicate that changes in the AP-COP position mainly affect the ankle and knee extensor moments during double-leg squatting, while the effect on the lower limb joint and trunk flexion angles was limited. Visual feedback on the AP-COP position could be useful for modifying the ankle and knee extensor moments during double-leg squatting.		[Ishida, Tomoya; Samukawa, Mina; Endo, Daisuke; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Ishida, Tomoya] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:001009464700001	25	Article; Article		
J	Kiminski, Rachel; Williams, Cori; Heinert, Becky; Mills, Owen; Cluppert, Kyle; Rutherford, Drew; Kernozek, Thomas								Transfer of post-trial feedback on impacts during drop landings in female athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2114931				2022	Increased vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) and dynamic knee valgus contribute to non-contact anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries. We examined feedback's influence during landing and transfer to a game-specific drill, measured by deceleration. Thirty-one female athletes performed 30 drop landings with augmented feedback and dual-task conditions, with a game-specific drill before and after. Differences were shown across time (baseline, feedback, post-feedback) and between conditions (with or without dual-task) in peak vGRF and knee to ankle ratio (K:A ratio). K:A ratio is the ratio of the frontal plane distance between the knees relative to the frontal plane distance between the ankles. This measure serves as a surrogate for knee valgus where a ratio closer to 1 indicates less knee valgus. There were reductions in peak vGRF (p < 0.05) and improvements in K:A ratio (p < 0.05) across time, improvements in K:A ratio across time and by condition (p < 0.05), and reduction in deceleration during landing in a game-specific drill (p < 0.05). Feedback may improve landing mechanics and transfer to a game-specific drill that can influence ACL injury in sport.		[Kiminski, Rachel; Williams, Cori; Rutherford, Drew; Kernozek, Thomas] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Hlth Profess, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Heinert, Becky] Winona State Univ, Dept Hlth Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Winona, MN 55987 USA; [Mills, Owen] Gundersen Hlth Syst, Sports Med Dept, La Crosse, WI USA; [Cluppert, Kyle] Viterbo Univ, Athlet Dept, La Crosse, WI USA; [Kernozek, Thomas] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Hlth Profess, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000847749600001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hummell, Caroline; Herbison, Jordan D.; Turnnidge, Jennifer; Cote, Jean								Assessing the effectiveness of the transformational coaching workshop using behavior change theory								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			3	12		10.1177/17479541221122435			FEB 2023	2023	The current study assessed how participation in the Transformational Coaching Workshop (TCW) influenced youth sport coaches' perceived capability, opportunity, and motivation to incorporate transformational coaching behaviors into their coaching practices. Sixty-three volunteer youth sport coaches participated in the study as part of an intervention (n = 31; M-age = 45.65 years; SDage = 8.82 years) or comparison group (n = 32; M-age = 44.59 years; SDage = 11.86 years). The study employed a two-arm, pre- and post-intervention, non-randomized intervention design. Dependent- and independent-sample t-tests were conducted to assess within and between-group differences. Results indicated that participants in the intervention group reported slight improvements in their perceived capability and opportunity to use transformational coaching behaviors post-intervention. There were no significant differences between groups post-intervention. This study provides support for the effectiveness of the TCW, and the application of behavior change frameworks to evaluate coach development programs.		[Hummell, Caroline] Brock Univ, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Herbison, Jordan D.] McGill Univ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Turnnidge, Jennifer; Cote, Jean] Queens Univ, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Hummell, Caroline] Brock Univ, Fac Appl Hlth Sci, St Catharines, ON L2S 3A1, Canada								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000847546400001	59	Article; Article		
J	White, Daniel; Williams, Dylan; Dwyer, Sean; White, Darin								Team loyalty and intergenerational influence: the role of nurturant fathering in the transference process								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	1			203	220		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2022-0089			JAN 17 2023	2023	Purpose This study assessed the intergenerational influence of family socialization, specifically, nurturant fathering - the affective quality fathers provide children through warmth and acceptance - to explore how individuals initially connect with a sports team to become team-loyal. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected via an online survey from respondents self-described as college football fans who selected their "Favorite NCAA Division I football team." The 623 respondents subsequently selected their biological father's favorite team. An intergenerational "match" between father and child served as the dependent variable. Step-wise logistic regression assessed the relationship that team loyalty, nurturant fathering, and their interaction had on the intergenerational matching of a father's favorite team. Findings Team loyalty had a significant, positive relationship with an intergenerational match. A positive but weak direct relationship was found between nurturant fathering and a favorite-team match. However, nurturant fathering significantly moderated the relationship between team loyalty and intergenerational match. This suggests that the quality of a father-child relationship during the child's formative years can facilitate team loyalty to a team favored by the father. Research limitations/implications The strength and quality of the relationship between a father and his children through nurturant fathering during their formative years can facilitate mutual team loyalty toward a college football team if not directly, then indirectly, through an interaction effect with a parent-socialized, team-loyal child. Practical implications College athletic teams, and sports properties in general, should address the bond between fathers and their children to take advantage of the intergenerational transference process identified in this study through targeted, family-focused sports marketing. More specifically, university athletic departments should engage in marketing efforts that encourage and solidify the mutual loyalty fathers and children may have to their father's favorite football team. The outcome would be a competitive advantage that leads to the cultivation of long-lasting fans from generation to generation. Social implications College football teams and sports properties in general should engage in father-child marketing promotions to encourage and enhance the intergenerational influence of fathers on their children with respect to the father's favorite team. However, while building future team loyalty among the children, these marketing promotions and the resultant father-child game attendance concurrently reinforce the father-child relationship. This ideally leads to a virtuous cycle of parental bonding and team loyalty. Originality/value This study extends research in intergenerational influence in a sports setting by introducing the construct of Nurturant Fathering and its scale to the sports marketing literature. The results found that a nurturing father can facilitate the formation of a mutual team loyalty between a father and his child with regard to the father's favorite football team. Extant research has focused on the behavioral elements of loyalty (e.g. attendance and revenues). This study's focus was on the attitudinal aspects of team loyalty. It empirically identified, at least in part, how individuals initially connect with a sports team to become team-loyal.		[White, Daniel] Univ Alabama, Dept Kinesiol, Tuscaloosa, AL USA; [Williams, Dylan] Univ Alabama, Dept Human Nutr & Hospitality Management, Tuscaloosa, AL USA; [Dwyer, Sean] Louisiana Tech Univ, Dept Mkt & Anal, Ruston, LA 71270 USA; [White, Darin] Samford Univ, Brock Sch Business, Mkt Dept, Entrepreneurship,Management, Birmingham, AL USA; [Dwyer, Sean] Louisiana Tech Univ, Dept Mkt & Anal, Ruston, LA 71270 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000844742400001	93	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Yubing; Li, Pan; Zhang, Binn; Han, Yaogang								Does Cognitive Attitude Matter When Affective Attitude Is Negative in Physical Activity Behavior Change?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1053	1061		10.1080/02701367.2022.2111021			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: The purposes of this study were to determine the moderation effects of affective attitude on the effects of cognitive attitude and intention on leisure-time moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA). Methods: A total of 2100 undergraduate students completed validated instruments measuring their affective and cognitive attitude, intention to do MVPA, and leisure-time MVPA. Hierarchical regression analyses and Hayes' Process program (model 1 and model 58) were used to address the research questions. Results: The results showed that affective attitude significantly moderated the effects of cognitive attitude on MVPA. It suggested that when affective attitude was negative, the effect of cognitive attitude on MVPA was not significant; when it was positive, the higher the value of affective attitude score, the larger the effects of cognitive attitude on MVPA. The results also showed that affective attitude significantly moderated the effect of intention on MVPA and the indirect effects of cognitive attitude on MVPA through intention. It suggested that the higher the value of the affective attitude, the larger the effects of intention on MVPA and the larger the indirect effects of cognitive attitude on MVPA through intention. Conclusions:These results indicate that the moderating role of affective attitude in behavior change is important and should be considered for future theory development on the relationship between attitude and behavior. Practically, it suggests that people's affective attitude should be first understood and addressed when designing PA promotion programs.		[Wang, Yubing] Univ Wisconsin, 800 W Main St, Whitewater, WI 53190 USA; [Li, Pan; Zhang, Binn; Han, Yaogang] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yubing] Univ Wisconsin, 800 W Main St, Whitewater, WI 53190 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000847432100001	56	Article; Article		
J	Kuehn, Joseph; Rebessi, Filippo								The Importance of Team Fit for NBA Rookies' Career Earnings								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	3			285	309		10.1177/15270025221120587			APR 2023	2023	Workers entering the labor market often face a trade off between job matches that maximizes their short run and long run compensation. This trade off is influenced by peers who may enhance or diminish the worker's productivity, and thus affect their future salary. We study this question for rookies in the National Basketball Association (NBA). We find that for rookies drafted between 2011 and 2017, playing with teammates that facilitated them getting 1 additional point per 100 possessions was predicted to increase the value of their second contract by between 9.9% and 23.6%. This implies that being drafted by the team that provides the 'best fit' is an important determinant of a rookie's future earnings.		[Kuehn, Joseph] Calif Polytech State Univ San Luis Obispo, Dept Econ, San Luis Obispo, CA 93407 USA; [Rebessi, Filippo] Calif State Univ East Bay, Dept Econ, Hayward, CA USA; [Kuehn, Joseph] Calif Polytech State Univ San Luis Obispo, Dept Econ, San Luis Obispo, CA 93407 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000847126600001	28	Article; Article		
J	Abad, Cesar Cavinato Cal; Carmo, Everton Crivoi; Do Prado, Danilo Marcelo Leite; Reis, Valter; Pereira, Lucas; Loturco, Irineu; Koehle, Michael								Using Physiological Laboratory Tests and Neuromuscular Functions to Predict Extreme Ultratriathlon Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1183	1191		10.1080/02701367.2022.2094307			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study aims to investigate the relationship between split disciplines and overall extreme ultra-triathlon (EUT) performance and verify the relationship among physiological and neuromuscular measurements with both fractional and total EUT performance while checking which variables could predict partial and overall EUT race time. Methods: Eleven volunteers (37 +/- 6 years; 176.9 +/- 6.1 cm; 77.9 +/- 10.9 kg) performed two maximal graded tests (cycling and running) for physiological measurements and muscle strength/power tests to assess neuromuscular functions. Results: The correlation of swimming split times to predict overall EUT race times was lower than for cycling and running split times (r(2) = 0.005; p > .05; r(2) = 0.949; p r(2) = 0.925; p < .001, respectively). VO2peak obtained during running test (VO2peakrun) and VT power output assessed during cycling test (VTPO) were the highest predictors of cycling performance (r(2) = 0.92; p = .017), whereas VO2peakrun and peakpower output in the cycling test (PPO) were the highest predictors of running performance (r(2) = 0.94; p = .008). Conclusion: VO2peakrun and VTPO, associated to jump height assessed during countermovement jump (CMJ) test were the highest correlated variables to predict total EUT performance (r(2) = 0.99; p = .007). In practical terms, coaches should include the assessment of VO2peakrun, VTPO, and CMJ to evaluate the athletes' status and monitor their performance throughout the season. Future studies should test how the improvement of these variables would affect EUT performance during official races.		[Abad, Cesar Cavinato Cal] Serv Social Ind CRCE SESI, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Abad, Cesar Cavinato Cal] Fac Lusofona Sao Paulo FLSP, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Carmo, Everton Crivoi] Natl Serv Commercial Learning SENAC, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Do Prado, Danilo Marcelo Leite] Univ Sao Paulo, Heart Inst, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Reis, Valter; Pereira, Lucas; Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport NARSP, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Koehle, Michael] Univ British Columbia UBC, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Abad, Cesar Cavinato Cal] Serv Social Ind CRCE SESI, Reference Ctr Sport Sci, R Carlos Weber 835, BR-05303902 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844731000001	79	Article; Article		
J	Paulsen, Kathleen M.; McDermott, Brendon P.; Myers, Aaron J.; Gray, Michelle; Lo, Wen-Juo; Ganio, Matthew S.								Reliability and Validity of the 30-15 Intermittent Field Test With and Without a Soccer Ball								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1001	1010		10.1080/02701367.2022.2098230			OCT 2 2023	2023	Objective: The purpose of this study was to examine the reliability and validity of the 30-15 Intermittent Field Test (30-15(IFT)) with and without a ball. Methods: Twenty-four collegiate female soccer players (19.46 +/- 1.22 years; 167.01 +/- 7.23 cm; 60.95 +/- 7.84 kg) performed 1 trial of the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery (YYIR) test, 3 trials of the 30-15(IFT), and 3 trials of the 30-15(IFT) with a ball (30-15(IFT-B)), separated by a minimum 48 hours. Maximal intermittent running velocity (V-IFT), heart rate at exhaustion (HRpeak), and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) were collected. Results: Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) between trials demonstrated good reliability during the 30-15(IFT) in V-IFT (ICC = 0.88) and HRpeak (ICC = 0.89), in addition to the 30-15(IFT-B) V-IFT (ICC = 0.83) and HRpeak (ICC = 0.87). V-IFT was significantly reduced in 30-15(IFT-B) (15.82 km h(-1)) compared to 30-15(IFT) (17.52 km h(-1); p < .001), regardless of trial. HR and RPE were significantly greater in 30-15(IFT) compared to 30-15(IFT-B) (p < .05). Estimated maximal oxygen consumption (VO(2)max) YYIR and estimated VO(2)max of 30-15(IFT) and 30-15(IFT-B) was very strongly (r = 0.82) and strongly (r = 0.68) correlated. Conclusion: The 30-15(IFT) is considered valid and reliable and the 30-15(IFT-B) was reliable in female soccer players.		[Paulsen, Kathleen M.; McDermott, Brendon P.; Myers, Aaron J.; Gray, Michelle; Lo, Wen-Juo; Ganio, Matthew S.] Univ Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR 72701 USA; [Paulsen, Kathleen M.] John Brown Univ, 2000 W Univ St, Siloam Springs, AR 72761 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844984300001	48	Article; Article		
J	De-Oliveira, Levy A.; Aragao-Santos, Jose C.; Heredia-Elvar, Juan R.; Da Silva-Grigoletto, Marzo E.								Movement Velocity as an Indicator of Mechanical Fatigue and Resistance Exercise Intensity in Cross Modalities								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1028	1034		10.1080/02701367.2022.2101603			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study analyzed the acute mechanical response to three workouts of the day (WOD) protocols in as many repetitions as possible (AMRAP), every minute on the minute (EMOM), and for time (FT) models by quantifying the degree of mechanical fatigue induced by popular resistance exercises in the Cross modalities, front squat (FS), and shoulder press (SP). We also analyzed whether the exercises' fastest velocity (Vfastest) could be an objective indicator of relative intensity (%1RM). Methods: Nine trained men performed three FS and SP exercises protocols. The degree of fatigue was quantified by the velocity loss (VL) achieved in both exercises and the velocity loss achieved in the WOD (VLWOD). Results: The VLWOD in the AMRAP, EMOM, and FT protocols was 73.2 +/- 10.9%, 61.6 +/- 15.1%, and 76.1 +/- 8.8%, respectively. In the AMRAP and FT protocol, the V-fastest showed very strong relationships with the %1RM for FS and SP (r = -0.83, -0.75, respectively, p < .01); while in the EMOM protocol, there was a strong relationship between these variables, only for the SP (r = -0.61, p < .05). In the FT protocol, we observed an extremely strong relationship for FS (r = -0.91, p < .001) and very strong (r = -0.71, p < .05) for SP between these variables. Conclusion: Therefore, the AMRAP and FT training models induce the highest degrees of mechanical fatigue in the FS and SP exercises, and the V-fastest is a reliable tool for estimating relative intensity in resistance exercises of Cross modalities.		[De-Oliveira, Levy A.; Aragao-Santos, Jose C.; Da Silva-Grigoletto, Marzo E.] Univ Fed Sergipe, Sao Cristovao, Brazil; [Heredia-Elvar, Juan R.] Alfonso X El Sabio Univ, Madrid, Spain; [De-Oliveira, Levy A.] Univ Fed Sergipe, Dept Phys Educ, Post Grad Program Phys Educ, Marechal Rondon Ave S-N, BR-49100000 Sao Cristovao, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844709500001	25	Article; Article		
J	Strutzenberger, Gerda; David, Sina; Borcard, Lana Mei; Froehlich, Stefan; Imhoff, Florian B.; Scherr, Johannes; Spoerri, Joerg								Breaking new grounds in injury risk screening in soccer by deploying unsupervised learning with a special focus on sex and fatigue effects								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2112748				2022	In injury prevention, a vertical drop jump (DJ) is often used for screening athletes at risk for injury; however, the large variation in individual movement patterns might mask potentially relevant strategies when analysed on a group-based level. Two movement strategies are commonly discussed as predisposing athletes to ACL injuries: a deficient leg axis and increased leg stiffness during landing. This study investigated the individual movement pattern of 39 female and male competitive soccer players performing DJs at rest and after being fatigued. The joint angles were used to train a Kohonen self-organising map. Out of 19,596 input vectors, the SOM identified 700 unique postures. Visualising the movement trajectories and adding the latent parameters contact time, medial knee displacement (MKD) and knee abduction moment allow identification of zones with presumably increased injury risk and whether the individual movement patterns pass these zones. This information can be used, e.g., for individual screening and for feedback purposes. Additionally, an athlete's reaction to fatigue can be explored by comparing the rested and fatigued movement trajectories. The results highlight the ability of unsupervised learning to visualise movement patterns and to give further insight into an individual athlete's status without the necessity of a priori assumptions.		[Strutzenberger, Gerda; Borcard, Lana Mei; Froehlich, Stefan; Scherr, Johannes; Spoerri, Joerg] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Sports Med Res Grp, Zurich, Switzerland; [Strutzenberger, Gerda; Froehlich, Stefan; Scherr, Johannes; Spoerri, Joerg] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Univ Ctr Prevent & Sports Med, Dept Orthopaed, Zurich, Switzerland; [Strutzenberger, Gerda; Scherr, Johannes; Spoerri, Joerg] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Zurich, Switzerland; [Strutzenberger, Gerda] Res Unit Sports Med, Psychol & Med Sci, UMIT Tirol, Hall Tirol, Innsbruck, Austria; [David, Sina] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, Hv Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Imhoff, Florian B.] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Zurich, Switzerland; [Strutzenberger, Gerda] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Sports Med Res Grp, Zurich, Switzerland; [Strutzenberger, Gerda] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Univ Ctr Prevent & Sports Med, Dept Orthopaed, Zurich, Switzerland; [Strutzenberger, Gerda] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Zurich, Switzerland; [Strutzenberger, Gerda] Res Unit Sports Med, Psychol & Med Sci, UMIT Tirol, Hall Tirol, Innsbruck, Austria								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844676000001	44	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Spring, Katherine E.; Chen, Chih-Chia; Powell, Margaret B.; Smith, JohnEric W.; Stratton, Kasee K.; Wadsworth, Danielle D.; Holmes, Megan E.								Impact of Seated Movement Incorporation on Middle School Classroom Physical Activity Levels and Academic Engagement								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			1011	1019		10.1080/02701367.2022.2100308			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Physical inactivity is linked with several chronic diseases and poor academic outcomes. This study aimed to examine the effect an under-the-desk band would have on middle school students' physical activity level, and academic engagement. Methods: Two local middle school classrooms (n = 42, M = 20, F = 22) participated in the study, which was conducted over 14 weeks. Physical activity was measured with accelerometry, and academic engagement was assessed using momentary time sampling. Enrolled participants were provided an accelerometer to wear upon entering the classroom. The baseline period lasted for 36 days. During the intervention period, which lasted for the next 30 days, an under-the-desk band was provided to students to freely fidget at their desks. After the study, 13 participants (M = 5, F = 8) in Class A were included in final physical activity analysis, and the 6 participants (M = 3, F = 3) in Class B were included in the academic engagement analysis. Results: Class A had significant increases in percentage of sedentary time (MD = -12.91%, ES = .88) in addition to significant decreases in the percentage of light (MD = 8.82%, ES = .67), moderate (MD = 3.08%, ES = .84), and vigorous (MD = -.04%, ES = .63) physical activity time during the intervention period compared to the baseline period. No significant or meaningful changes occurred in academic engagement with the use of the under-the-desk band. Conclusions: This study high- lights the importance of finding appropriate methods to increase physical activity for adolescents.		[Spring, Katherine E.; Wadsworth, Danielle D.] Auburn Univ, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Chen, Chih-Chia; Powell, Margaret B.; Smith, JohnEric W.; Stratton, Kasee K.; Holmes, Megan E.] Mississippi State Univ, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA; [Spring, Katherine E.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, 301 Wire Rd, Auburn, AL 36849 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844665800001	39	Article; Article		
J	Cary, Michael; Stephens, Heather								Gendered Consequences of COVID-19 Among Professional Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	2			241	266		10.1177/15270025221120591			FEB 2023	2023	The COVID-19 pandemic increased the risk of travelling, working, and participating in public events. To test whether there were gendered differences in the response to COVID-19, we examine the behavior of male and female professional tennis players. We use data from major tennis tournaments which included a rather large number of athletes withdrawing from play. After controlling for past performance, wealth, and other relevant player attributes, we find that female tennis players were more likely to withdraw. This suggests that high-earning women may have greater risk aversion, especially related to COVID-19, than their male counterparts. Importantly, women were more risk-averse when it comes to international travel.		[Cary, Michael; Stephens, Heather] West Virginia Univ, Resource Econ & Management, 333 Evansdale Dr, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Cary, Michael] West Virginia Univ, Resource Econ & Management, 333 Evansdale Dr, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000843834000001	30	Article; Article		
J	Pedro Fuentes-Garcia, Juan; Villafaina, Santos; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Crespo, Miguel								Pre- and post-competitive anxiety and match outcome in elite international junior tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2108	2116		10.1177/17479541221122396			DEC 2023	2023	This study aimed to analyse the impact of match outcome (win or lose) in an elite international tennis competition on pre-competitive anxiety and self-confidence. A cohort of Under-16 elite boys (n = 18), with a mean age of 15.44 (0.616) years and an international competitive experience of 4.44 (1.89) years, which were representing six national teams participated in this cross-sectional study. The assessments took part in a qualifying stage of the International Tennis Federation (ITF) Junior Davis Cup competition. During the tournament, participants played the best of three set matches. The Competitive State Anxiety Inventory - 2R (CSAI-2R) and the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI-E) were employed to assess the pre-competitive anxiety before and after the tournament's match. Cognitive and somatic anxiety were slightly higher before than after the matches. No significant differences were found between the pre-and post-match measures. However, significant differences in cognitive anxiety, state anxiety and self-confidence were found when comparing pre-match and post-match values between winners and losers. In this regard, winners showed a significant reduction in state anxiety and cognitive anxiety after the match. According to our results, intervention programmes should incorporate tools that will assist players in their management of anxiety and self-confidence, specifically with those players who lost the match.		[Pedro Fuentes-Garcia, Juan] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Germany; [Villafaina, Santos] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Phys Act & Qual Life Res Grp AFYCAV, Caceres, Spain; [Villafaina, Santos] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Escola Saude & Desenvolvimento Humano, Evora, Portugal; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Valencia 46010, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dev Dept, London, England; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Valencia 46010, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000843804300001	48	Article; Article		
J	Carlson, Luke; Gschneidner, David; Steele, James; Fisher, James P.								The Effects of Training Load During Dietary Intervention Upon Fat Loss: A Randomized Crossover Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			990	1000		10.1080/02701367.2022.2097625			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: To date no studies have compared resistance training loading strategies combined with dietary intervention for fat loss. Methods: Thus, we performed a randomised crossover design comparing four weeks of heavier- (HL; similar to 80% 1RM) and lighter-load (LL; -60% 1RM) resistance training, combined with calorie restriction and dietary guidance, including resistance trained participants (n=130; males=49, females=81). Both conditions performed low-volume, (single set of 9 exercises, 2x/week) effort matched (to momentary failure), but non-work-matched protocols. Testing was completed pre- and post-each intervention. Fat mass (kg) was the primary outcome, and a smallest effect size of interest (SESOI) was established at 3.3% loss of baseline bodyweight. Body fat percentage, lean mass, and strength (7-10RM) for chest press, leg press, and pull-down exercises were also measured. An 8-week washout period of traditional training with normal calorie interspersed each intervention. Results: Both interventions showed small statistically equivalent (within the SES01) reductions in fat mass (HL: -0.67 kg [95%CI -0.91 to 0.42]; LL: -0.55 kg [95%CI -0.80 to -0.31]) which were also equivalent between conditions (HL - LL: -0.113 kg [95%CI -0.437 kg to 0.212 kg]). Changes in body fat percentage and lean mass were also minimal. Strength increases were small, similar between conditions, and within a previously determined SESOI for the population included (10.1%). Conclusions: Fat loss reductions are not impacted by resistance training load; both HL and LL produce similar, yet small, changes to body composition over a 4-week intervention. However, the maintenance of both lean mass and strength highlights the value of resistance training during dietary intervention.		[Carlson, Luke; Gschneidner, David] Discover Strength, St Louis Pk, MN USA; [Steele, James; Fisher, James P.] Solent Univ, Southampton, Hants, England; [Fisher, James P.] Solent Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Social Sci, Southampton SO14 0YN, Hants, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000846696900001	49	Article; Article		
J	Enes, Alysson; Leonel, Danilo Fonseca; Oneda, Gustavo; Alves, Ragami C.; Zandona-Schmidt, Bruna A.; Boiko Ferreira, Luis Henrique; Prestes, Jonato; McAnulty, Steven R.; Souza-Junior, Tacito P.								Muscular Adaptations and Psychophysiological Responses in Resistance Training Systems								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			982	989		10.1080/02701367.2022.2096843			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: We investigated the effect of drop-set (DS) and rest-pause (RP) systems compared to traditional (TRAD) resistance training on muscular adaptations and psychophysiological responses. Methods: Twenty-seven trained men (age: 23.4 +/- 3.4 years; resistance training experience: 5.1 +/- 1.7 years) were assigned to experimental groups (DS: n = 9, 3 x 10 repetitions at 75% with 6 additional repetitions at 55% 1RM; RP: n = 9, 3 x 16 repetitions at 75% 1RM; TRAD: n = 9, 4 x 12 repetitions at 70% 1RM) and performed lower-limb training sessions twice a week for 8 weeks. Maximum dynamic strength (1RM) and localized muscular endurance (LME) tests were performed in 45 degrees leg press at baseline and post intervention. Session-RPE was assessed 15 min after the end of each training session. Results: A significant time vs. group interaction was observed for 1RM (p = .012) and LME (p < .0001). Post hoc comparisons revealed that RP elicited greater gains in muscular strength than DS (p = .044) but not TRAD (p = .116); and DS elicited greater LME than RP (p < .001) and TRAD (p = .001). No statistical differences were observed in Session-RPE and training strain between conditions; however, RP promoted higher training monotony (p = .036) than DS and TRAD. Conclusions: The DS and RP systems have a potential role in training programs aiming to promote muscle strength and localized muscular endurance adaptations, respectively. However, RP may promote higher training monotony than DS and TRAD, even though the other psychophysiological responses are similar.		[Enes, Alysson; Leonel, Danilo Fonseca; Oneda, Gustavo; Alves, Ragami C.; Zandona-Schmidt, Bruna A.; Boiko Ferreira, Luis Henrique; McAnulty, Steven R.; Souza-Junior, Tacito P.] Fed Univ Parana UFPR, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Leonel, Danilo Fonseca] Fed Univ Jequitinhonha & Mucuri Valleys UFVJM, Teofilo Otoni, Brazil; [Prestes, Jonato] Catholic Univ Brasilia UCB, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Enes, Alysson] Fed Univ Parana UFPR, Dept Phys Educ, Metab Nutr & Resistance Training Res Grp GPMENUTF, Rua Cel Francisco H dos Santos 210, BR-81531980 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000843600000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Little, Casey C.; Howell, David R.; Armento, Aubrey M.; Sweeney, Emily A.; Walker, Gregory A.								Training volume recommendations and psychosocial outcomes in adolescent athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	5			420	426		10.1080/00913847.2022.2113987			SEP 3 2023	2023	Objectives Researchers have recommended that youth athletes limit their practice volume to the number of hours/week that they are old in years. We examined sport perceptions, burnout, anxiety, and depressive symptoms among youth athletes who did and did not report playing more hours/week of organized sports than their age. Methods Uninjured athletes aged 13-18 years old completed questionnaires documenting demographics, sport participation volume, health and injury history, depressive symptoms, anxiety, burnout, and sport perceptions during a pre-participation physical examination. We grouped participants as those who reported more hours/week in organized sports than their age (exceeds age/volume recommendation) vs. those who reported equal/less hours/week in organized sports than their age (meets age/volume recommendation). Results Of 161 participants, 21% (n = 33) were in the 'exceeds age/volume recommendation' group (age = 15.2 +/- 1.3 years; 55% female; 18.7 +/- 4.0 hours/week) and 79% (n = 128) were in the 'meets age/volume recommendation' group (age = 15.6 +/- 1.2 years; 50% female; 10.2 +/- 3.4 hours/week). A higher proportion of the 'exceeds age/volume recommendation' group agreed with the statement 'youth in my sport play too many games before college' than the 'meets age/volume recommendation' group (33% vs. 16%; p = 0.03). After adjusting for the effect of age, sport specialization level, and weight, exceeding age/volume recommendations was associated with the perception that youth in sports play too many games before college (aOR = 3.24; 95% CI = 1.26, 8.29; p = 0.01), while burnout (aOR = 0.99; 95% CI = 0.94, 1.06; p = 0.93), anxiety (aOR = 0.97; 95% CI = 0.84, 1.11; p = 0.65), and depressive symptoms (aOR = 0.90; 95% CI = 0.74, 1.10; p = 0.30) were not significantly related. Conclusion Athletes who spend more hours in sport than their age appear to perceive their competition load during youth sports to be excessive. Coaches and providers should monitor athlete's training hours and perceptions of competition load to offer support and potentially prevent burnout development.		[Little, Casey C.; Howell, David R.; Armento, Aubrey M.; Sweeney, Emily A.; Walker, Gregory A.] Childrens Hosp, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David R.; Armento, Aubrey M.; Sweeney, Emily A.; Walker, Gregory A.] Univ Colorado, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844087000001	41	Article; Article		
J	Wilkins, Celeste A.; Wheat, Jonathan S.; Protheroe, Laurence; Nankervis, Kathryn; Draper, Stephen B.								Coordination variability reveals the features of the 'independent seat' in competitive dressage riders								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2113118				2022	The rider's ability to consistently coordinate their movements to their horse is a key determinant of performance in equestrian sport. This study investigated the inter-segmental coordination variability between the vertical displacement of a riding simulator and the pitch rotation of 28 competitive female dressage riders' head, trunk, pelvis, and left foot, in simulated medium and extended trot. A statistical non-parametric mapping three-way repeated-measures ANOVA investigated the influence of gait, competition level and segment on coordination variability. There was a significant main effect of gait and segment (p = 0.05), however, no significant effect of competition level. In medium trot, simulator-pelvis coupling was significantly (p < 0.001) less variable than simulator-head, -trunk, and -foot couplings. Significantly greater coordination variability of simulator-head and -foot relative to the trunk and pelvis suggested that riders can maintain stability in the saddle with their trunk and pelvis while allowing greater variability of their head and foot coupling to the simulator's vertical displacement. It is proposed that stronger coupling of the rider's pelvis relative to their other segments is one facet of the equestrian dressage skill of the independent seat. However, greater perturbations during simulated extended trot may necessitate a decrease in the independence of the rider's seat.		[Wilkins, Celeste A.; Nankervis, Kathryn] Hartpury Univ, Equestrian Performance Res Ctr, Hartpury, Glos, England; [Wheat, Jonathan S.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Coll Hlth Wellbeing & Life Sci, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Protheroe, Laurence; Draper, Stephen B.] Hartpury Univ, Sport & Exercise Res Ctr, Hartpury, Glos, England; [Wilkins, Celeste A.] Hartpury Univ, Equestrian Performance Res Ctr, Hartpury, Glos, England								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000843105400001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Breen, Sarah; Knudson, Duane								International survey of faculty teaching undergraduate introductory biomechanics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2110933				2022	Little is known about worldwide biomechanics instructors use of evidence-based teaching and introductory instruction format relative to the COVID-19 pandemic. International biomechanics instructors' perspectives were surveyed on the introductory biomechanics instruction, active learning (AL), instructional quality standards, and instructional formats. Responses (n = 181) from college biomechanics instructors were received, with a majority from kinesiology/sport and exercise science (85%), a doctorate in biomechanics (81%), and a mean teaching experience of nine years. The introductory instructional unit/course was primarily (74%) a lecture/lab delivery. Instruction delivery was usually in-person (85%) that transitioned due to the COVID-19 pandemic as fully online (55%) and hybrid (25%). Most instructors (65%) reported being familiar with standards for quality online instruction and guidelines/standards for biomechanics instructional units (51%). Fewer biomechanics instructors (40%) were familiar with related physics education research. A majority (75%) were familiar with the benefits of AL instruction, with 41% using AL for 30-70% of contact time. These data indicate little change in evidence-based instructor teaching internationally compared to previous studies of North American instructors. Biomechanics instructors had similar perceptions of teaching experience across regions of the world but there were qualitative differences in instructional unit timing in the curriculum, instructional delivery, and use of textbooks.		[Breen, Sarah] Univ Oklahoma, Stephenson Sch Biomed Engn, Norman, OK 73019 USA; [Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX USA; [Breen, Sarah] Univ Oklahoma, Stephenson Sch Biomed Engn, Norman, OK 73019 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000843071000001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hebert-Losier, Kim; Pamment, Milly								Advancements in running shoe technology and their effects on running economy and performance - a current concepts overview								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	3			335	350		10.1080/14763141.2022.2110512			MAR 4 2023	2023	Advancements in running shoe technology over the last 5 years have sparked controversy in athletics as linked with clear running economy and performance enhancements. Early debates mainly surrounded 'super shoes' in long-distance running, but more recently, the controversy has filtered through to sprint and middle-distance running with the emergence of 'super spikes'. This Current Concepts paper provides a brief overview on the controversial topic of super shoes and super spikes. The defining features of technologically advanced shoes are a stiff plate embedded within the midsole, curved plate and midsole geometry, and lightweight, resilient, high-energy returning foam that - in combination - enhance running performance. Since the launch of the first commercially available super shoe, all world records from the 5 km to the marathon have been broken by athletes wearing super shoes or super spikes, with a similar trend observed in middle-distance running. The improvements in super shoes are around 4% for running economy and 2% for performance, and speculatively around 1% to 1.5% for super spikes. These enhancements are believed multifactorial in nature and difficult to parse, although involve longitudinal bending stiffness, the 'teeter-totter effect', the high-energy return properties of the midsole material, enhanced stack height and lightweight characteristic of shoes.		[Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Adams Ctr High Performance, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Pamment, Milly] Loughborough Univ, Natl Performance Inst, British Athlet, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Pamment, Milly] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Adams Ctr High Performance, Tauranga, New Zealand								36							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000843861300001	75	Article; Article		
J	Masterson, Anna; Warne, Joe								The effects of footwear on dynamic stability and impact loading in jump landing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	2			233	246		10.1080/14763141.2022.2105744			FEB 1 2025	2025	Research into the effect of footwear on dynamic stability and impact loading is still in its infancy. The aim of this study was to determine whether cushioned footwear influenced dynamic stability (dynamic postural stability index (DPSI) and time to stabilisation (TTS)) or impact loading (peak ground reaction force (pGRF) and loading rate (LR)) through a series of single-leg jump landings when compared to barefoot and minimalist shoes. Fourteen healthy, active participants (9 males, 5 females, Age: 21 +/- 1 years; height: 174 +/- 9.87 cm; weight: 75 +/- 15.40 kg) were recruited to undergo a series of single-leg jump landings. Each participant randomly performed three jumps in each footwear condition. Repeated measures ANOVA was conducted to determine whether any differences occurred between condition. No statistically significant difference was observed for DPSI (p = 0.300, p eta 2 = 0.083) between footwear types. A statistically significant difference was determined between footwear condition for TTS (p = 0.001, p eta 2 = 0.52), and also for pGRF (p = 0.003, p eta 2 = 0.39), and LR (p <= 0.001, p eta 2 = 0.53). For TTS, pGRF, and LR, no differences were noted between minimalist and barefoot, but were worse in the cushioned shoe vs. both other conditions. Overall, this study determined that cushioned footwear can negatively influence both TTS and impact loading, but not DPSI.		[Masterson, Anna; Warne, Joe] Technol Univ Dublin, Dept Appl Sci, Tallaght Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Warne, Joe] Technol Univ Dublin, Dept Appl Sci, Tallaght Campus, Dublin, Ireland								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000841842900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Marcus J. C.								Shoulder rotation strength and overhead shooting speed associated with prior shoulder injury in water polo players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2112751				2022	This study aimed to differentiate peak ball speed during shooting and shoulder rotation strength of the dominant arm between previously injured (PI) and uninjured (UI) water polo players. Nine PI and nine UI players performed 10 shots at 6 m from the goal mouth and three sets of three repetitions of isokinetic shoulder strength tests at 180 degrees/s on a dynamometer. Peak ball speed and shoulder concentric internal rotation (CIR) and eccentric external rotation (EER) peak torque (PT) and total work (TW) normalised to body mass were measured. EER:CIR PT and TW ratios were calculated. All PI versus UI comparisons were made using an Independent Samples T-Test. PI players shot 6% faster, produced 18% more CIR PT, and had lower EER:CIR PT (22%) and TW (34%) ratios compared with UI players. Shoulder TW compared with PT ratios could be more sensitive in differentiating PI versus UI players as TW takes into account the muscles' capacity throughout full active ROM. Practitioners could expand their foci to monitor shoulder EER:CIR TW ratios, in addition to PT ratios, to identify muscle imbalances in water polo athletes who might be at risk of injury/reinjury, and thereafter design interventions to reduce these imbalances.		[Lee, Marcus J. C.] Sport Singapore, Singapore Sport Inst, Sport Sci & Sport Med, Singapore, Singapore; [Lee, Marcus J. C.] Sport Singapore, Singapore Sport Inst, Sport Sci & Sport Med, Singapore, Singapore								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000841842800001	28	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Yi, Wenjuan; Wang, Dexin; Chen, Chao; Wu, Rui								Acute effects of ballistic and non-ballistic conditioning activities on the punching impact of amateur boxers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2171	2177		10.1177/17479541221119390			DEC 2023	2023	Objectives This study investigated the postactivation performance enhancement (PAPE) effects of medicine ball throwing (MBT) and bench pressing (BP) on punching impact at different recovery times. Methods Fourteen amateur boxers performed three lead-hand (lead-hand) and rear-hand straight punches (rear-hand) at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 15 min after MBT or BP exercise. Peak force, time to the peak force, and rate of force development (RFD) of each punch was measured by a force plate. Results There was no significant condition x time interaction effect for any variables (lead-hand: F = 0.744-0.913, p = 0.448-0.542; rear-hand: F = 0.240-1.355, p = 0.245-0.944). No significant main effect for condition for any variables (lead-hand: F = 0.103-0.219, p = 0.644-0.751; rear-hand: F = 0.070-0.459, p = 0.504-0.793). The time effect was significant on peak force (F = 4.411, p = 0.005) and RFD (F = 5.002, p = 0.002) of lead-hand, time to the peak force (F = 5.791, p = 0.001) and RFD (F = 5.514, p = 0.001) of rear-hand. Peak force and RFD of the lead-hand, as well as time to the peak force and RFD of the rear-hand enhanced significantly at 6-15 min (p = 0.001-0.042), compared to the baseline. Conclusions MBT and BP may equally enhance punching impact for amateur boxers; moreover, there was no difference in recovery time between conditioning activities.		[Yi, Wenjuan; Wang, Dexin; Chen, Chao; Wu, Rui] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ & Training, 399 Changhai Rd, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Dexin] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ & Training, 399 Changhai Rd, Shanghai, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000840965100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Anderson, Peter								Compensating Differentials for the Risk of Reinjury - Lessons from Professional Boxing								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				26	2			148	171		10.1177/15270025221120592			FEB 1 2025	2025	A neglected area in the compensating-differential literature is how wages compensate workers for the risk of reinjury, specifically the risk of a subsequent mild Traumatic Brain Injury (mTBI). Using a new, unbalanced panel of 1,211 professional boxers, this paper finds that boxers' purses price for the risk of knockout reinjury risk while those that have never lost by knockout earn economically and statistically insignificant knockout-risk premiums. These results are consistent across three measures of previous knockout loss and three robustness tests, implying that current values of a statistical injury (VSI) underestimate previously injured workers' willingness to pay for safety.		[Anderson, Peter] Bryant Univ BITZH, Business Dept, Zhuhai, Peoples R China; [Anderson, Peter] Bryant Univ BITZH, 6 Jingfeng Rd, Zhuhai 519088, Guangdong, Peoples R China								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000840940100001	64	Article; Article		
J	Nijmeijer, Eline M.; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.; Otten, Egbert; Benjaminse, Anne								Optimal and suboptimal video instructions change movement execution in young talented basketball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2142	2150		10.1177/17479541221118882			DEC 2023	2023	Observational learning is considered powerful to promote (implicit) motor learning. While it is a common tool in practice, little is known about the effects of video instructions on movement execution. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of watching biomechanically optimal (OPT) and suboptimal (SUBOPT) sidestep cutting (SSC) video instructions on movement execution. Ten male basketball players (age 15.5 +/- 1.2 years, height 189.9 +/- 3.1 cm, mass 75.4 +/- 7.1 kg) from a Regional Talent Center performed anticipated 45 degrees SSC tasks in baseline (BASE) followed by two counterbalanced experimental conditions. Subjects watched expert videos (matched by sex and height) of OPT and SUBOPT movement executions and were asked to imitate this to the best of their ability. Kine(ma)tic data was captured with 21 reflective markers and 2 force plates. After watching the videos, subjects displayed smaller ankle dorsiflexion angles (p < 0.001) and greater vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) (p = 0.012) in SUBOPT compared to OPT condition during initial contact (IC). Greater knee flexion and ankle dorsiflexion angles in the expert compared to subjects in the OPT condition were found (p < 0.001). Contrarily, subjects were able to imitate SUBOPT executions shown by the expert. This means that athletes worsen their movement execution when modelling a SUBOPT model. Coaches are advised to mainly use (1) OPT video instructions and (2) expert modelling with a relatively small gap in movement execution between the athlete and model.		[Nijmeijer, Eline M.; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.; Otten, Egbert; Benjaminse, Anne] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1,Bldg 3216,Room 215, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands; [Benjaminse, Anne] Hanze Univ Groningen, Sch Sport Studies, Groningen, Netherlands; [Nijmeijer, Eline M.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1,Bldg 3216,Room 215, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000840931900001	47	Article; Article		
J	Dekkers, Thomas; O'Sullivan, Kieran; Collins, Kieran; McVeigh, Joseph G.; Roe, Mark; Murphy, John C.; Blake, Catherine								The epidemiology of back injuries in elite Gaelic football athletes: An 8-year prospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				57				105	111		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.07.009			SEP 2022	2022	Objectives: To describe the epidemiology of back injury in elite male Gaelic football athletes between 2008 and 2016. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Injury data from the National GAA Injury Surveillance Database. Participants: Elite male Gaelic football athletes. Main outcome measures: Incidence of injury as a rate per 1000 h of exposure. Results: 38 datasets were analysed. Out of a total of 1606 time-loss injuries, 76 were back injuries (4.73%, 95% CI 3.80%-5.88%). The incidence of back injuries in match play was 1.72 (CI 95% 1.21 to 2.45) and in training was 0.2 (CI 95% 0.14 to 0.28) injuries per 1000 h of exposure. The majority of back injuries (63.16%, CI 95% 51.93-73.12) were new, as opposed to recurrent (35.53% CI 95% 25.7-46.74). Most back injuries were acute (51.32%, CI 95% 40.29-62.22), compared to chronic (31.58%, CI 95% 22.23-42.7) or overuse (11.84%, CI 95% 6.36-21.0 0). The majority of back injuries occurred during non-contact player activities (n 1/4 60, 78.94% CI 95% 68.50-86.60). Conclusions: Back injury rates in Gaelic football are similar to soccer and Australian football but less than rugby union. Further research is needed to understand the factors leading to the onset and recurrence of back injury in Gaelic football athletes.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dekkers, Thomas; Collins, Kieran] Technol Univ Dublin, Gael Sports Res Ctr, Dublin, Ireland; [Dekkers, Thomas] Evolve Hlth, Skibbereen, Cork, Ireland; [O'Sullivan, Kieran] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [O'Sullivan, Kieran] Univ Limerick, Ageing Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [O'Sullivan, Kieran] Univ Limerick, Sports & Human Performance Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [McVeigh, Joseph G.] Univ Coll Cork, Sch Clin Therapies, Cork, Ireland; [Roe, Mark; Blake, Catherine] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Murphy, John C.] Medfit Proact Healthcare, Dublin, Ireland; [Dekkers, Thomas] Technol Univ Dublin, Gael Sports Res Ctr, Dublin, Ireland								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844326400009	34	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Xianyi; Yang, Fan; Zhao, Kaidi; Vanwanseele, Benedicte								Symptomatic and asymptomatic pronated feet show differences in the forefoot abduction motion during jogging, but not in the arch deformation								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2109506				2022	Pronated feet have been associated with higher risks of running-related overuse injuries than neutral feet. However, it remains unclear why some pronated feet develop running-related injuries, while others do not. This study aimed to examine the differences in foot kinematics during jogging among individuals with symptomatic pronated feet (SP), asymptomatic pronated feet (AP) and asymptomatic neutral feet (AN). Thirty-nine recreational runners were recruited and classified into the SP, AP and AN groups. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) and ANOVA were used to identify kinematic differences among three groups. The SPM results showed that the SP had larger forefoot abduction than the AN and AP during jogging, while three groups had similar rearfoot eversion during jogging. Both the AP and SP had larger forefoot sagittal range of motion (ROM) (mean difference = 3.5 and 4.8 deg, respectively) and smaller rearfoot sagittal ROM (mean difference = 5.0 and 3.5 deg, respectively) than the AN. Forefoot abduction during jogging may have the potential to identify pronated feet at greater risk of injury. Pronated feet, symptomatic or not, have comparable large forefoot sagittal ROM, i.e., arch deformation, compared to neutral feet. The findings could have implications for the injury aetiology and intervention strategies for SP.		[Zhang, Xianyi; Zhao, Kaidi] Sun Yat Sen Univ, Key Lab Sensing Technol & Biomed Instrument Guand, Sch Biomed Engn, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Yang, Fan] Li Ning China Sports Goods Co Ltd, Li Ning Sports Sci Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yang, Fan] China Univ Min & Technol Beijing, Dept Phys Educ & Res, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yang, Fan] Lingnan Normal Univ, Sch Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Vanwanseele, Benedicte] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Human Movement Biomech Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [Zhang, Xianyi] Sun Yat Sen Univ, Key Lab Sensing Technol & Biomed Instrument Guand, Sch Biomed Engn, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000840033300001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	da Cruz Filho, Edson Gonsales; Moura, Felipe Arruda; Bini, Rodrigo Rico								Foot tracking can be an alternative to determine foot strike and take-off during vertical jumps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2109504				2022	Determining foot strike and take-off during vertical jumps is essential to calculate a range of performance measures, which normally requires the use of expensive equipment such as force platforms. This study evaluated whether tracking the foot centre of mass(CoM) and hallux could be suitable alternatives to determine foot strike and take-off during jumps. Thirteen recreational runners performed six unilateral jumps. Foot strike and take-off instants were observed using three algorithms from foot CoM, pelvis CoM and the hallux marker and results were compared with data determined by the force platform. Bland-Altman method and Cohen effect sizes were used to assess the differences between methods. For foot strike, the difference between the foot CoM and the force platform (12 ms, d < 0.01) was smaller than using the pelvis CoM (46 ms, d < 0.01) and similar to the hallux (16 ms, d < 0.01). For the take-off, the foot CoM produced the smallest difference (i.e., 4 ms, d < 0.01; pelvis = 22 ms, d < 0.01 and hallux = 18 ms, d < 0.01). The foot CoM seems to yield the closest agreement with the force platform when determining foot strike and take-off during vertical jumps. However, the hallux marker can be used as an alternative to the foot CoM once corrected for mean bias.		[da Cruz Filho, Edson Gonsales; Moura, Felipe Arruda] Univ Estadual Londrina, Lab Appl Biomech, Londrina, Parana, Brazil; [Bini, Rodrigo Rico] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Rural Hlth Sch, Bendigo, Australia; [Bini, Rodrigo Rico] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Rural Hlth Sch, Bendigo, Australia								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000839393300001	19	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Willinger, Marc; Dubois, Dimitri; Bravaccini, Sabrina								Participation in Competitive Sports Closes Gender Gaps in Competition and in Risk Taking								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	1			97	133		10.1177/15270025221108189			JAN 2023	2023	We compare the preferences of athletes who practice individual sports to those of non-athletes, by combining incentivized tasks and survey questions. Athletes were more likely to opt for the tournament payment scheme in the competitive tasks. Female athletes and male non-athletes were equally likely to select the tournament payment. We also find that female athletes were equally as risk-tolerant as non-athlete men and equally as risk-tolerant as men overall (whether athletes or non-athletes), for incentivized tasks and stated preferences. It is concluded that participation in competitive sports favors closure of the gender gaps in competitiveness and risk tolerance.		[Willinger, Marc; Dubois, Dimitri; Bravaccini, Sabrina] Univ Montpellier, CNRS, CEE M, INRAE,SupAgro, Ave Raymond DUGRAND CS, F-79606 Montpellier, France; [Willinger, Marc] Univ Montpellier, CNRS, CEE M, INRAE,SupAgro, Ave Raymond DUGRAND CS, F-79606 Montpellier, France								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000839876700001	96	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino; Sanchez-Pay, Alejandro; Hernandez, Adrian; Martinez-Gallego, Rafa; Crespo, Miguel; Ramon-Llin, Jesus								Professional padel: Comparative gender analysis of game transitions during matches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1366	1374		10.1177/17479541221118610			JUN 2024	2024	Transitions, or movements in which players move from attacking to defending situations or vice versa, are key situations in high-performance competitive padel, and therefore, they should be specifically trained. The aim of this study was to analyse the transitions made by players from the back of the court to the net in professional padel and compare them by gender. A total of 1350 points from 14 matches from the 2020 World Padel Tour were analysed, in which 32 professional players (16 men and 16 women) participated. The matches were analysed through systematic observation, using the Lince and Kinovea programmes. Results showed that one or no transitions were made in more than 50% of the points. The first transition was made between fifth and sixth shots of the rally, with a higher percentage of points with more than three transitions in women's matches than in men's matches. Counter-attack transitions were done mainly by the serving partner, most frequently using the lob. The most effective counter-attacks were those in which both players approached the net and both defenders moved to the backcourt, with the women teams obtaining the best results in this type of movement as compared to men. On the other hand, men lost the net less often than women. It is concluded that the results can provide useful guidelines for coaches when prescribing and conducting specific training sessions and individualised match preparation strategies.		[Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino; Sanchez-Pay, Alejandro; Hernandez, Adrian] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafa] Univ Valencia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Valencia, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, London, England; [Ramon-Llin, Jesus] Univ Valencia, Fac Educ, Dept Musical Plast & Corporal Express, Valencia, Spain; [Sanchez-Pay, Alejandro] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Argentina S-N, Murcia, Spain								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000839875100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Havenetidis, Konstantinos; Bissas, Athanassios; Monastiriotis, Nikolaos; Nicholson, Gareth; Walker, Josh; Bampouras, Theodoros M.; Dinsdale, Alexander J.								Combining sport and conventional military training provides superior improvements in physical test performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1567	1576		10.1177/17479541221116959			OCT 2023	2023	Training for both sporting and military performance is common practice within army trainee populations, although it is currently unknown what effect this combination of training methods may have on the physical attributes required for overall physical preparedness. This study examined the effects of sport-specific training on general fitness in a professional military population. Four hundred and twenty-three Greek male army cadets completed a 12-week training regimen involving standard physical training (callisthenics, strength and endurance running exercises) and either general military training (GMT) or sport military training (SMT). A series of physical tests took place before and after the training period: a mile run, pull-ups, 50 m swim and an obstacle course run. Both the GMT and SMT groups showed significant (p < 0.001) improvements in all physical tests. However, the SMT group produced significantly greater improvements in all four tests (pull-ups [p < 0.001], 50 m swim [p < 0.05], obstacle course [p < 0.01] and mile run [p < 0.01]) compared to the GMT group. Furthermore, different types of SMT (e.g. rock climbing and track sprinting) achieved greater improvements (p < 0.001-0.01) in certain physical tests when compared to other forms of SMT (e.g. Pankration, Fencing). These results indicate that cadets undertaking concurrent participation in general and sport military training are overall better prepared for physical performance than their counterparts who undertake only general military training. Military conditioning personnel should be aware of the positive interplay between general and sports specific training in forming a preparation strategy designed for physical performance.		[Havenetidis, Konstantinos; Monastiriotis, Nikolaos] Hellen Army Acad, Fac Phys & Cultural Educ, Human Performance Rehabil Lab, Athens, Greece; [Bissas, Athanassios] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Bissas, Athanassios] Athlet Biomech, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Nicholson, Gareth; Walker, Josh; Dinsdale, Alexander J.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Bampouras, Theodoros M.] Univ Lancaster, Fac Hlth & Med, Lancaster, England; [Dinsdale, Alexander J.] Leeds Beckett Univ, 107 Fairfax Hall,Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QT, W Yorkshire, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000839886000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Lopez, Juan; Ferrer-Roca, Ventura; Floria, Pablo								The effect of changes in saddle height on coordination and its variability during pedalling cycle								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2109510				2022	Modifications in saddle height affect the range of movement of the lower limb's joints during pedalling. Although its effect on movement patterns is poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to analyse the acute effects of small changes in bicycle saddle height on pedalling coordination and its variability. Lower extremity kinematic data were collected in random order for ten well-trained cyclists while pedalling at three different saddle heights: preferred, 2% higher and 2% lower than preferred position. A dynamical systems approach was used to quantify the coordination and its variability for selected joint couplings. Modifications in saddle height produced large changes in the frequency of movement patterns, although they were not enough to alter the coordination classification. Lowering the saddle height increased the frequency of the proximal coordinative hip-ankle pattern (F = 11.77, p < .01) and knee-ankle couplings (F = 14.39, p < .01), while decreasing inphase coordination (F > 11.03, p < .01) during the propulsive phase. Pedalling coordination variability was not affected, being greatest during the movement transitions and when the ankle joint was included in the coupling. This study demonstrated that pedalling pattern coordination and coordination variability were generally stable to acute small changes in saddle height in well-trained cyclists.		[Garcia-Lopez, Juan] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Leon, Spain; [Ferrer-Roca, Ventura] High Performance Ctr CAR, Barcelona, Spain; [Floria, Pablo] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res, Seville, Spain; [Floria, Pablo] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res, Seville, Spain								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000838027600001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	O'Grady, Mathew W.; Worn, Ryan; Owens, Julian O.; O'Brien, Brendan J.; Talpey, Scott W.								Race craft: A qualitative exploration of the development, implementation and reflection of tactical decision making in road cycling								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2160	2170		10.1177/17479541221118423			DEC 2023	2023	Historically, research that has aimed to understand the determinants of road cycling performance has focused primarily on the physiological characteristics of successful performers. To date, little research has been conducted on the tactical strategies that underpin successful road cycling, especially from a qualitative perspective. This study reports the practices of seven high-performing Australian cyclists and coaches to inform how they prepare for competition, the tactical decisions they make during and reflective practices they use following a road cycling competition. Inductive qualitative one-on-one semi-structured interviews were conducted using open-ended questions via an online meeting platform. A robust thematic analysis of the interviews was undertaken resulting in the establishment of themes aligned with pre-race, in-race and reflection upon tactical decision making. Prior to the race, themes related to the specificity of training, planning of a race strategy and use of training data emerged from the interviews. During the race, themes of the cyclist's role within a team, in-race communication and race craft were established. Post-race, a theme related to the reflective practice implemented by each participant was evident. These results and discussion provide novel insights into the process of developing, implementing and reflecting upon tactical decision making used in high-level road cycling. This information is valuable for teams and governing bodies to inform and enhance coaching development and practice within the sport of road cycling.		[O'Grady, Mathew W.; Worn, Ryan; Owens, Julian O.; O'Brien, Brendan J.; Talpey, Scott W.] Federat Univ Australia, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, Churchill, Vic 3350, Australia; [O'Grady, Mathew W.] Federat Univ Australia, Inst Hlth & Wellbeing, Churchill, Vic 3350, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000838277600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Kobal, Ronaldo; Loturco, Irineu; do Carmo, Everton C.; Cal Abad, Cesar Cavinato; Rossetti, Marcelo; Saito, Tiemi; Klosterhoff, Rafael Roberto; Barroso, Renato								Effects of moderate altitude on the physical performance of elite female soccer players during an official soccer tournament								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1558	1566		10.1177/17479541221117149			OCT 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of moderate altitude (2800 m) on neuromuscular performance, body-mass, rating of perceived exertion, total quality recovery, and global positioning system-motion variables (distance covered, sprint distance, number of accelerations, and top-speed) during soccer training and official matches. Seventeen professional female soccer players performed vertical jump tests and were weighed over seven days during the altitude acclimatization. Global positioning system-motion variables, rating of perceived exertion, and total quality recovery were assessed over two training sessions at 2800 m and compared to the metrics collected during two sessions at sea level. Global positioning system-motion variables were measured during six official matches played at 2800 m and compared to six matches at sea level. Vertical jump height and body-mass did not change during acclimatization (p > 0.05). Rating of perceived exertion was higher and total quality recovery was lower after training sessions at altitude (p < 0.05). Total distance covered (p = 0.002), total sprint distance (p = 0.016), and total distance covered per minute (p = 0.02) decreased and rating of perceived exertion increased (p = 0.012) in the matches at moderate altitude compared to sea level. No differences were observed for top-speed and acceleration (p > 0.05). These findings suggest that moderate altitude can lead to substantial decreases in the physical performance (especially in total sprint distance), increased rating of perceived exertion, decreased total quality recovery in female players. These occurrences are critical to soccer performance.		[Kobal, Ronaldo; Barroso, Renato] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Phys Educ, Campinas, Brazil; [Kobal, Ronaldo; Rossetti, Marcelo; Saito, Tiemi; Klosterhoff, Rafael Roberto] Sport Club Corinthians Paulista, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [do Carmo, Everton C.] Senac Univ Ctr, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Cal Abad, Cesar Cavinato] Fac Lusofona Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Kobal, Ronaldo] Univ Estadual Campinas, Av Erico Verissimo,701,Cidade Univ, Campinas, SP, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000838280100001	46	Article; Article		
J	Powers, Christopher M.; Straub, Rachel K.								Quadriceps strength symmetry predicts vertical ground reaction force symmetry during running in patients who have undergone ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				57				89	94		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.07.012			SEP 2022	2022	Objective: To determine whether quadriceps strength symmetry can predict peak vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) running force symmetry in patients who have undergone ACL reconstruction (ACLR). We also sought to determine a cutoff for quadriceps strength symmetry to identify patients at risk for vGRF running asymmetry. Design: Retrospective cross-sectional. Setting: Clinical facility. Methods: Bilateral quadriceps strength and vGRF data during running were obtained from 79 patients 26-30 weeks post ACLR. Linear regression was used to determine if quadriceps strength symmetry pre-dicted peak vGRF running force symmetry. Classification and regression tree (CART) analysis was used to determine the cutoff value for quadriceps strength symmetry to identify patients at risk for vGRF running asymmetry. Results: Increased quadriceps strength symmetry predicted increased vGRF running symmetry (R-2 = 0.20). CART analysis revealed that patients with quadriceps strength symmetry less than or equal to 88% were at highest risk for vGRF running asymmetry (R2 = 26%). Conclusion: Greater quadriceps strength symmetry is predictive of greater vGRF running force symmetry in patients who have undergone ACLR. This finding highlights the need for clinicians to consider the degree of quadriceps strength symmetry before initiating a return to running program.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Powers, Christopher M.; Straub, Rachel K.] Univ Southern Calif, Div Biokinesiol & Phys Therapy, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Powers, Christopher M.] USC Div Biokinesiol & Phys Therapy, 1540 E Alcazar St CHP-155, Los Angeles, CA 90089 USA; [Powers, Christopher M.] USC Div Biokinesiol & Phys Therapy, 1540 E Alcazar St CHP-155, Los Angeles, CA 90089 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844326400007	29	Article; Article		
J	Grundstein, Andrew; Cooper, Early R.; Cahill, Olivia; Walker, Christian								Are local weather stations a feasible substitute for on-site measurements for heat stress assessment in sports?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	6			2178	2188		10.1177/17479541221117240			DEC 2023	2023	With increasing concerns about heat-related hazards for athletes, many commercial weather companies are offering heat monitoring systems. Such systems may provide readily available data across a school campus that can free busy staff such as coaches and athletic trainers from data collection. Yet, standard recommendations are for measurements to be taken on the field of play. A question is "can a single weather station accurately capture heat stress conditions on different fields of play with differing microclimates?" Our study compares wet bulb globe temperature (WBGT) reports from a WeatherSTEM operated weather station to those collected during a summer study period on nearby fields of play (grass, synthetic turf, and hardcourt tennis) on the campus of the University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA. The WeatherSTEM WBGTs were lower than on-site measurements 84%-92% of the time, resulting in clinically meaningful differences in activity modification recommendations. We believe these differences are related to both meteorological conditions from the station siting on a roof and the WBGT model employed. Among other factors, we believe that the greater wind speeds at the weather station reduced estimated WBGTs. Also, simply replacing the WeatherSTEM WBGT model with a publicly available, physically based model increased WBGT estimates and better matched on field conditions. We conclude that station setting and the choice of software for computing WBGT can make a critical difference in determination of the WBGT estimates and associated activity modification recommendations. Users should also request information on the validity and accuracy of WBGT estimates prior to purchasing a system.		[Grundstein, Andrew; Cahill, Olivia; Walker, Christian] Univ Georgia, Dept Geog, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Cooper, Early R.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Grundstein, Andrew] Univ Georgia, Dept Geog, Athens, GA 30602 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000837808300001	20	Article; Article		
J	Ansari, Sumbul; Sharma, Saurabh								Prevalence and risk factors of chronic low back pain in university athletes: a cross-sectional study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	4			361	370		10.1080/00913847.2022.2108351			JUL 4 2023	2023	Aim This study aimed to establish the prevalence of chronic low back pain (CLBP) in university-level athletes and to examine the influence of age, sex, body mass index (BMI), sports discipline, sleep, anxiety, and depression on CLBP. The secondary purpose was to check the association of certain variables in athletes having CLBP with the sports discipline and chronicity of LBP. Methods A total of 340 players (100% response rate) from different sports, aged 18-30 years with at least 1 year of participation in sports at the university level were screened for the present study. The subjects completed a detailed, semi-structured questionnaire that gathered data regarding their demographic variables, personal and pain-related factors. The study was registered on the clinical trials registry, India (CTRI/2021/09/036675). Results The results revealed the sport-wise point prevalence as follows: cricket (18.5%), basketball (15.6%), volleyball (20.0%), football (11.4%), badminton (7.7%) and tennis (7.7%). A higher number of years at university-level participation (>4 years), smoking, anxiety and BMI (>25 kg/m(2)) are risk factors for CLBP. The type of LBP, the intensity of the pain (current and last week), variation of the pain intensity, disability, intake of oral medications, physiotherapy for CLBP, number of missed days of training and number of missed matches are not significantly related to the chronicity of LBP or the sports discipline. Only the number of missed days of training had a significant association with the chronicity of LBP. Conclusions CLBP is a common complaint in Indian university athletes, and our findings indicate the necessity for a specific prevention program.		[Ansari, Sumbul; Sharma, Saurabh] Jamia Millia Islamia, Ctr Physiotherapy & Rehabil Sci, New Delhi 110025, India; [Sharma, Saurabh] Jamia Millia Islamia, Ctr Physiotherapy & Rehabil Sci, New Delhi 110025, India								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000836655600001	87	Article; Article		
J	Hasbany, James; Burke, Ryland; Watson, Lawrence; Doremus, Jacqueline								Scoring Benefits to Eastward Travel in the NBA								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	1			50	72		10.1177/15270025221100202			JAN 2023	2023	Travel across time zones may affect player scoring through circadian rhythm. We test how travel affects scoring for the US National Basketball Association from 2014-2018, a period featuring a new game scheduler. We also test whether a collective bargaining agreement that protected player rest changed how travel affects scoring. We find eastward travel increases scoring and point spread via three-pointers and field goals, with implications for point spread betting in sports gambling markets. The 2017 collective bargaining agreement mitigates the eastward travel benefit on scoring and increases scoring overall, suggesting improved fairness and potential benefits for players and fans.		[Hasbany, James; Burke, Ryland; Watson, Lawrence; Doremus, Jacqueline] Calif Polytech State Univ San Luis Obispo, Dept Econ, San Luis Obispo, CA 93407 USA; [Doremus, Jacqueline] Calif Polytech State Univ San Luis Obispo, Orfalea Coll Business, 1 Grand Ave, San Luis Obispo, CA 93407 USA								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000836720700001	24	Article; Article		
J	Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Haff, G. Gregory; Guppy, Stuart N.; Poon, Wayne; Kendall, Kristina L.								Effect of different set configurations on barbell trajectories during the power snatch								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1594	1604		10.1177/17479541221116965			OCT 2023	2023	This study aimed to investigate the effect of different set configurations on barbell trajectories during a series of power snatch sets. Ten strength-power athletes (height: 1.78 +/- 0.09 m, body mass: 88.7 +/- 14.3 kg, age: 28.9 +/- 4.8 years) with at least 6 months of training experience performing the power snatch participated in this study. Each participant completed three experimental protocols as part of a randomized repeated measures design. The three protocols tested were a traditional, cluster, and ascending cluster set protocol where training loads were increased across the repetitions contained within each set. All protocols required each participant to perform the power snatch with three sets of five repetitions at an average load of 75% of one-repetition maximum. Three-dimensional barbell trajectories were recorded using a motion capture system during each set protocol. Participants maintained barbell trajectories within each set of both traditional and cluster protocols. This result indicates that higher intensities (>75% of one-repetition maximum) than those used in this study should be used when using cluster sets that are designed to maximize the benefits of cluster sets for maintaining barbell trajectories during a series of power snatch sets performed for five repetitions. Additionally, participants displayed an increased barbell loop at the first repetition during the ascending cluster protocol. Therefore, coaches should only use this programming strategy for highly trained athletes who have already developed proper weightlifting technique to avoid a suboptimal barbell trajectory during the power snatch training session.		[Nagatani, Tsuyoshi; Haff, G. Gregory; Guppy, Stuart N.; Poon, Wayne; Kendall, Kristina L.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Human Performance, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, Lancs, England; [Nagatani, Tsuyoshi] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Human Performance, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000836737600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Murillo, Miguel; Abos, Angel; Sevil-Serrano, Javier; Burgueno, Rafael; Garcia-Gonzalez, Luis								Influence of coaches' motivating style on motivation, enjoyment and sport commitment of young water polo players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1283	1294		10.1177/17479541221116439			DEC 2022	2022	Coaches' motivating style plays a key role in athletes' motivational outcomes. However, limited research has explored the effects of athletes' perceptions of coaches' need-supportive and controlling styles on the bright and dark motivational pathways in the sport setting, and particularly in young water polo players, where one out of two players drops out of this sport as adults. Guided by self-determination theory, the objective of this study was to analyse the differentiated effects between water polo players' perception of need-supportive and controlling style from their coaches on their reported basic psychological need satisfaction and frustration, motivation and sport commitment. In this cross-sectional study, 633 Spanish water polo players (33.96% women; M-age = 14.74), from 43 clubs and three age groups (U-14, U-16 and U-18) completed validated questionnaires assessing study variables. Structural equation modelling showed a positive association of players' perceptions of need-supportive style from their coaches with their reported need satisfaction, autonomous motivation and sport commitment. Similarly, perceived controlling coaching style was positively associated with reported need frustration, controlled motivation and amotivation. Regarding cross-paths, perceived need-supportive coaching style was negatively related to reported need frustration, while reported amotivation was negatively associated with reported sport commitment. These findings suggest the importance of water polo players' perceptions of (de)motivating styles from their coaches on their reported motivational outcomes and sport commitment. Players' perception of coach need-supportive behaviours and, in particular, the avoidance of perceived controlling behaviours, buffer against experiences of reported need frustration and, consequently, amotivation, which seems to play a key role in preventing lack of sport commitment in young water polo players.		[Murillo, Miguel; Burgueno, Rafael] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Educ, Zaragoza, Spain; [Abos, Angel] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Human & Educ Sci, Huesca, Spain; [Sevil-Serrano, Javier] Univ Extremadura, Fac Teaching Training, Caceres, Spain; [Garcia-Gonzalez, Luis] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Huesca, Spain; [Garcia-Gonzalez, Luis] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Huesca, Spain								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000836740600001	54	Article; Article		
J	Kawahara, Daiki; Koshino, Yuta; Watanabe, Kentaro; Akimoto, Moeko; Ishida, Tomoya; Kasahara, Satoshi; Samukawa, Mina; Tohyama, Harukazu								Lower limb kinematics during single leg landing in three directions in individuals with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				57				71	77		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.07.011			SEP 2022	2022	Objectives: To compare the lower limb kinematics of participants with chronic ankle instability (CAI) and healthy participants during forward, lateral, and medial landings.Design: Cross-sectional study.Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Eighteen athletes with CAI and 18 control athletes.Main outcome measures: Hip, knee, and ankle joint kinematics during forward, lateral, and medial single -leg landings were compared between the groups using two-way ANOVA for discrete values and statis-tical parametric mapping two-sample t-tests for time-series data.Results: The CAI group had significantly greater ankle dorsiflexion than the control group (P < 0.013), which was observed from the pre-initial contact (IC) for lateral and medial landings and post-IC for forward landing. The CAI group showed greater knee flexion than the control group from the IC for lateral landing and post-IC for forward landing (P < 0.014). No significant differences in ankle inversion kine-matics were found between the CAI and control groups. Lateral landing had a greater peak inversion angle and velocity than forward and medial landings (P < 0.001). Medial landing had a greater inversion velocity than forward landing (P < 0.001).Conclusions: This study suggests that individuals with CAI show feedforward protective adaptations in the pre-landing phase for lateral and medial landings.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kawahara, Daiki; Koshino, Yuta; Watanabe, Kentaro; Akimoto, Moeko; Ishida, Tomoya; Kasahara, Satoshi; Samukawa, Mina; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Japan; [Koshino, Yuta] NTT Med Ctr Sapporo, Rehabil Ctr, Sapporo, Japan; [Koshino, Yuta] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, North 12,West 5,Kita Ku, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600812, Japan; [Koshino, Yuta] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, North 12,West 5,Kita Ku, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600812, Japan								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844326400005	30	Article; Article		
J	Peebles, Alexander T.; Miller, Thomas K.; Savla, Jyoti; Ollendick, Thomas; Messier, Stephen P.; Queen, Robin M.								Reduction of risk factors for ACL Re-injuries using an innovative biofeedback approach: A phase I randomized clinical trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				57				78	88		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.07.007			SEP 2022	2022	Objectives: Determine the safety and initial efficacy of a novel biofeedback intervention to improve landing mechanics in patients following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Methods: Forty patients post-ACLR (age: 16.9 +/- 2.0 years) were randomly allocated to a biofeedback intervention or an attention control group. Patients in the biofeedback group completed 12 sessions over six-weeks that included bilateral unweighted squats with visual and tactile biofeedback. Patients in the control group completed a six-week educational program. Lower extremity mechanics were collected during a bilateral stop jump at baseline, six-weeks, and 12-weeks post-intervention. Linear mixed-effects models adjusted for sex and graft type determined the main effects of and interactions between group and time. Results: No group by time interaction existed for peak knee extension moment symmetry. A group by time interaction existed for peak vertical ground reaction force symmetry (p 1/4 0.012), where patients in the biofeedback group had greater improvements in symmetry between baseline and post-intervention that were not maintained through the retention assessments. Conclusion: This novel biofeedback program did not reduce risk factors for second ACL injuries. Future work could develop and test multidisciplinary interventions for reducing second ACL injury risk factors. Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: (NCT03273673)(c) 2022 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Peebles, Alexander T.; Queen, Robin M.] Virginia Tech, Dept Biomed Engn & Mech, Granata Biomech Lab, Blacksburg, VA USA; [Miller, Thomas K.; Queen, Robin M.] Virginia Tech Caril Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Roanoke, VA USA; [Savla, Jyoti] Virginia Tech, Dept Human Dev & Family Sci, Blacksburg, VA USA; [Ollendick, Thomas] VVirginia Tech, Virginia Tech Child Study Ctr, Dept Psychol, Blacksburg, VA USA; [Messier, Stephen P.] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, J B Snow Biomech Lab, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Messier, Stephen P.] Wake Forest Sch Med, Sect Gerontol & Geriatr Med, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Messier, Stephen P.] Wake Forest Sch Med, Dept Rheumatol & Immunol, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Peebles, Alexander T.] Laurel Ridge Community Coll, Dept Engn, Warrenton, VA USA; [Queen, Robin M.] FAIME, FASB, FIOR, FACSM, 495 Old Turner St,300 Norris Hall, Blacksburg, VA 24061 USA; [Queen, Robin M.] FAIME, FASB, FIOR, FACSM, 495 Old Turner St,300 Norris Hall, Blacksburg, VA 24061 USA								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844326400006	44	Article; Article		
J	Ryan, Chloe; Uthoff, Aaron; McKenzie, Chloe; Cronin, John								Traditional and Modified 5-0-5 Change of Direction Test: Normative and Reliability Analysis								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	4			22	37		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000691			AUG 2022	2022	Change of direction (COD) ability is an important performance factor in many field and court sports. A common COD maneuver is the 180-degree turn, which is commonly assessed through the 5-0-5 COD test. Coaches and practitioners need to assess an athlete's COD performance and have access to normative data for these assessments. This review focuses on the traditional and modified 5-0-5 COD test. The 5-0-5 COD performance results have been gathered across 50 different studies and 11 different sports to create sport, sex, and level specific normative data so performance comparisons can be made, which in turn can drive programming to better effect. The reliability of both the traditional and modified 5-0-5 COD tests has been evaluated and discussed. Traditional COD ability of male athletes is better understood given there were 300 male athletes, compared with 62 female athletes. On average, males were 6.03% faster than females. Elite males were 7.78% faster than subelite and novice males, and subelite females were 3.30% faster than novice female athletes. Further research or collation of normative data is needed on female, youth, and elite cohorts to build more comprehensive databases.		[Ryan, Chloe; Uthoff, Aaron; McKenzie, Chloe; Cronin, John] Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Ryan, Chloe] Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000834672800003	77	Article; Article		
J	Paul, Darren; Jones, Luke; Read, Paul								Load Monitoring With Foucault: Suggestions for the Management of Perceived Exertion in the Elite Sport Context								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	4			70	76		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000686			AUG 2022	2022	Athlete subjective reporting monitoring tools, such as session rating of perceived exertion (RPE), are commonly used to measure internal load. RPE is based on calculation of athletes' rating on the Borg category 1-10 scale multiplied by the exercise duration. Coaches can then use this feedback to ascertain whether the athletes' reported RPE is aligned with their own rating of intended (pre training/competition) or observed exertion (post-training/competition perception of exertion). In this paper, a socio-cultural perspective informed by French philosopher Michel Foucault (14) is used to explore factors that can shape the perceptions and attitudes of the main stakeholders involved in the load monitoring process (the practitioner/coach and the athlete). This approach has led us to suggest that when engaged in load monitoring, there is a need for the coaches or conditioning practitioners to reflect on the impact of and alter their approach to, their daily monitoring protocols. Specifically, how their management of athlete generated data can influence the efficacy of their working relationships and ability to develop athletes in an ethical fashion.		[Paul, Darren] Aspetar Qatar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Res & Sci Support, Doha, Qatar; [Jones, Luke] Univ Hull, Fac Hlth Sci, Kingston Upon Hull, N Humberside, England; [Read, Paul] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Read, Paul] UCL, Div Surg & Intervent Sci, London, England; [Read, Paul] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Gloucester, England; [Paul, Darren] Aspetar Qatar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Res & Sci Support, Doha, Qatar								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000834672800006	42	Article; Article		
J	Maughan, Patrick C.; MacFarlane, Niall G.; Towlson, Chris; Barrett, Steve; Swinton, Paul A.								Does transforming subjective measures of load better represent training and match-play intensity in youth soccer players?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1541	1549		10.1177/17479541221114739			OCT 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to investigate the structure of relationships between measures of training load and assess whether these can be modified through non-linear transformations. Ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) and seven external load measures (total distance covered, PlayerLoad, low-intensity running distance, high-speed running distance, sprinting distance, accelerations, and decelerations) were collected from 20 academy soccer players (age = 17.4 +/- 1.3 years, stature = 178.0 +/- 8.1 cm, body-mass = 71.8 +/- 7.2 kg), with 3220 recordings taken across a 47-week season. To control for the effects of session duration, sessions were categorised as short (<= 60 min) or long (>60 min). All RPE and sessional RPE-training load (sRPE-TL; RPE multiplied by session duration) were analysed in their raw form and through raising to a series of exponentials. The underlying structure of the data was investigated using principal component analysis. Two components were retained for each analysis and varimax rotation was performed. The first rotated component (RC) was best represented as a measure of volume (RCvolume) with high loadings for RPE and sRPE-TL, whilst the second RC was best represented as a measure of intensity (RCintensity). Non-linear transformations had little effect on loading of modified measures for long sessions for sRPE-TL (RCvolume: 0.87-0.8; RCintensity: 0.27-0.13), and for RPE (RCvolume: 0.76-0.79; RCintensity: 0.17-0.10). For short sessions, the loading became more equal between intensity and volume for sRPE-TL (RCvolume: 0.88-0.41; RCintensity: 0.32-0.36) and more aligned to intensity (RCintensity: 0.52-0.61) compared with volume (RCvolume: 0.44-0.23) for RPE. The present study demonstrates that RPE and sRPE-TL predominantly reflect measures of training volume, however, they can be modified to better reflect intensity for training sessions <60 min in duration.		[Maughan, Patrick C.] Aberdeen Football Club, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Maughan, Patrick C.; MacFarlane, Niall G.] Univ Glasgow, Coll Med Vet & Life Sci, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Maughan, Patrick C.; Swinton, Paul A.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Ishbel Gordon Bldg,Garthdee Rd, Aberdeen AB10 7QE, Scotland; [Towlson, Chris] Univ Hull, Dept Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Kingston Upon Hull, N Humberside, England; [Barrett, Steve] PlayerMaker, Dept Sports Sci & Res Innovat, London, England; [Maughan, Patrick C.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Ishbel Gordon Bldg,Garthdee Rd, Aberdeen AB10 7QE, Scotland								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000834573600001	33	Article; Article		
J	Shaw, James; Gould, Zachariah I.; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Physical Determinants of Golf Swing Performance: Considerations for Youth Golfers								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	4			10	21		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000689			AUG 2022	2022	In the sport of golf, club head speed has been associated with higher skill levels in golfers and lower overall scoring. Research has shown that club head speed is an important measure of golf swing performance that can be enhanced with appropriate strength and conditioning interventions. Understanding the determinants of club head speed can help inform the design of testing batteries for talent identification and talent development of youth golfers. This review aims to highlight the current literature surrounding the biomechanical and physical determinants of golf swing performance and to examine the available tests that can be used to test these determinants in youth golfers.		[Shaw, James; Gould, Zachariah I.; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Shaw, James] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, Wales								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000834672800002	112	Article; Article		
J	Bishop, Chris; Turner, Anthony; Jordan, Matt; Harry, John; Loturco, Irineu; Lake, Jason; Comfort, Paul								A Framework to Guide Practitioners for Selecting Metrics During the Countermovement and Drop Jump Tests								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	4			95	103		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000677			AUG 2022	2022	Researchers and practitioners have highlighted the necessity to monitor jump strategy metrics and the commonly reported outcome measures during the countermovement jump (CMJ) and drop jump (DJ) tests. However, there is a risk of confusion for practitioners, given the vast range of metrics that now seem to be on offer via analysis software when collecting data from force platforms. As such, practitioners may benefit from a framework that can help guide metric selection for commonly used jump tests, which is the primary purpose of this article. To contextualize the proposed framework, we have provided 2 examples for how this could work: one for the CMJ and one for the DJ, noting that these tests are commonly used by practitioners during routine testing across a range of sport performance and clinical settings.		[Bishop, Chris; Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Stone X Stadium, London, England; [Jordan, Matt] Canadian Sport Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Harry, John] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lake, Jason] Univ Chichester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Chichester, England; [Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Human Performance Lab, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Stone X Stadium, London, England								130							Sport Sciences	WOS:000834672800009	53	Article; Article		
J	Farraye, Byrnadeen T.; Chaput, Meredith; Simon, Janet E.; Kim, HoWon; Grooms, Dustin R.; Monfort, Scott M.								Development and reliability of a visual-cognitive medial side hop for return to sport testing								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				57				40	45		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.07.004			SEP 2022	2022	Objectives: To develop and evaluate the reliability of a new visual-cognitive medial side hop (VCMH) test that challenges physical and cognitive performance to potentially improve return to sport testing. Design: Test-retest experimental design. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Twenty-two healthy college students participated (11 females; 23.5 +/- 3.64 years; 172.9 +/- 11.58 cm; 74.1 +/- 17.25 kg; Tegner Score 5.6 +/- 1.1). Main outcome measures: Subjects performed a medial side hop for distance with and without a visual-cognitive task (VCMH). Maximum hop distance and cognitive errors were measured. Results: There was strong reliability for the traditional medial side hop (ICC3,1 = 0.88[0.72, 0.95]; SEM = 7.16 cm) and VCMH distances (ICC3,1 = 0.86[0.66, 0.94]; SEM = 6.82 cm). Maximum hop distance was significantly lower during the VCMH (86.9 +/- 18.2 cm) compared to the traditional medial side hop (96.3 +/- 20.7 cm; p < 0.05; d = 0.74), with a performance deficit of 9.69%. Conclusion: The VCMH has high test-retest reliability and resulted in a significant dual-task cost with a reduction in physical performance when compared to the traditional medial side hop. (C) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Farraye, Byrnadeen T.; Chaput, Meredith; Kim, HoWon; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Coll Hlth Sci & Profess, Sch Rehabil & Commun Sci, Div Phys Therapy, Athens, OH USA; [Simon, Janet E.; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Coll Hlth Sci & Profess, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Div Athlet Training, Athens, OH USA; [Farraye, Byrnadeen T.; Chaput, Meredith; Simon, Janet E.; Kim, HoWon; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Ohio Musculoskeletal & Neurol Inst, Athens, OH USA; [Monfort, Scott M.] Montana State Univ, Dept Mech & Ind Engn, Bozeman, MT USA; [Farraye, Byrnadeen T.] Ohio Univ, W151B Grover Ctr, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Farraye, Byrnadeen T.] Ohio Univ, W151B Grover Ctr, Athens, OH 45701 USA								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844326400001	36	Article; Article		
J	Unuvar, Ezgi; Guney-Deniz, Hande; Akinoglu, Bihter; Kocahan, Tugba; Nyland, John								Frontal plane lower extremity alignment in adolescent athletes with chronic hip adductor-related groin injury symptoms: A case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				57				53	60		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.07.008			SEP 2022	2022	Objective: To compare trunk and lower extremity frontal plane projection angles (FPPA) during single leg squat (SLS) performance, perceived hip and groin function and symptoms, and isometric hip strength of adolescent athletes with chronic hip adductor-related groin injury (HARGI) symptoms and age, gender, and sport-matched healthy subjects.Design: Case-control study.Setting: Junior Olympic Development Training Centre.Participants: Twenty-six athletes at 59.1 +/- 60 weeks (range = 12-208 weeks) post-index grade II HARGI injury who had continued sport training (injury group) and 26 control group subjects.Main outcome measures: SLS trunk, hip, and knee FPPA, isometric hip strength standardized to body -weight, and Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Scores (HAGOS).Results: The injury group had greater bilateral knee FPPA, and greater injury side hip FPPA during maximum SLS. Injury group HAGOS subscale scores were lower than control group scores. Hip abductor, adductor, external rotator, and internal rotator strength was lower at the injury side of the injury group compared to the matched control group limb. Forward stepwise multiple regression analysis of the injury group found that 50% of injury side knee FPPA was predicted by hip internal rotator strength and time post-index HARGI; and 47% of injury side hip FPPA was predicted by other side hip flexor strength and the HAGOS function, sport and recreation subscale score (p = 0.002).Conclusions: Greater injury side hip and bilateral knee FPPA during maximum SLS, lower self-reported hip symptom and function scores, and less injury side hip abductor, adductor, external rotator and in-ternal rotator strength suggests that adolescent athletes with chronic HARGI symptoms are at an increased risk for sustaining a non-contact knee injury. Impaired hip internal rotator strength at the side of the chronic HARGI was related to increased knee FPPA, and impaired hip flexor strength at the other side of the HARGI was related to increased hip FPPA. Findings support using SLS performance testing in this athlete group to help determine safe return to sport training readiness.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Unuvar, Ezgi; Guney-Deniz, Hande] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Dept Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy & Rehabil, TR-06100 Ankara, Turkey; [Akinoglu, Bihter] Ankara Yildirim Beyazit Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Etlik, Ankara, Turkey; [Kocahan, Tugba] Univ Hlth Sci, Gulhane Fac Med, Sports Med Dept, Ankara, Turkey; [Nyland, John] Spalding Univ, Kosair Char Coll Hlth & Nat Sci, Louisville, KY USA; [Nyland, John] Spalding Univ, Kosair Char Coll Hlth & Nat Sci, Athlet Training Program, Louisville, KY 40203 USA; [Nyland, John] Spalding Univ, Kosair Char Coll Hlth & Nat Sci, Athlet Training Program, Louisville, KY 40203 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844326400003	46	Article; Article		
J	Dunne, Cian; Callaway, Andrew J.; Thurston, Joanna; Williams, Jonathan M.								Validity, reliability, minimal detectable change, and methodological considerations for HHD and portable fixed frame isometric hip and groin strength testing: A comparison of unilateral and bilateral testing methods								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				57				46	52		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.07.002			SEP 2022	2022	Objectives: Comparative assessment of bilateral (KangaTech) and unilateral (HHD) testing modalities through concurrent validity and test-retest reliability. Methodological considerations explored include minimum repetitions and comparison of average and maximum values. Design: Experimental, observational. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Thirty-three participants. Main outcome measures: Concurrent validity using peak force. Test-retest reliability used Abduction and Adduction using 2 trials, randomised between devices. Maximum peak force and average of both trials were used. Results: HHD and KT360 are concurrently valid (r = 0.996); with no significant difference (z = -0.681). Excellent HHD reliability (ICC:0.92-0.96) and KT360 (ICC:0.89-0.97). Significant difference between max peak force and average peak force but within the calculated MDC(%). No significant differences between max peak force between trials. Spearman-Brown prophecy predicted excellent reliability for one trial (ICC:0.81-0.95). Bilateral facilitation was demonstrated using the KT360 with 94.6-101.2% increase in force compared to HHD. Conclusions: With no significant difference between first and second max effort, and excellent prophesised reliability, one rep max effort should be acceptable to use. Body positioning within the KT360 seems to elicit bilateral facilitation rather than deficit, therefore unilateral and bilateral force values are not interchangeable. (C) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Dunne, Cian; Callaway, Andrew J.; Thurston, Joanna; Williams, Jonathan M.] Bournemouth Univ, Dept Rehabil & Sport Sci, Poole H12 5BB, England; [Callaway, Andrew J.] Bournemouth Univ, Dept Rehabil & Sport Sci, Poole H12 5BB, England								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000844326400002	29	Article; Article		
J	Augustus, Simon; Hudson, Penny E.; Smith, Neal								Defining movement strategies in soccer instep kicking using the relationship between pelvis and kick leg rotations								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	1			1	12		10.1080/14763141.2022.2106297			JAN 2 2025	2025	Growing evidence suggests skilled ball kickers use distinct pelvis and kick leg strategies to achieve successful performance. However, since the interaction between different strategies remains unexplored, the aims of this study were to a) examine relationships between pelvis and kick leg rotations in male players performing soccer instep kicks and b) classify different 'types' of kickers based on the observed movement strategies. Twenty semi-professional players performed kicks for maximal speed and accuracy, and kick leg and pelvis kinematics were analysed using 3D motion capture (1000 Hz). A strong relationship was found between change in pelvis transverse angular velocity and thigh-knee angular velocity ratio upon ball contact (r = 0.76, p < 0.001), and participants were categorised by their location on kick leg (thigh-knee) and pelvis (maintainer-reverser) continuums. Knowledge of a player's preferred strategy can inform departure from 'one size fits all' technical and conditioning training practices towards more individualised approaches. For example, pelvis maintainer-thigh dominant kickers might benefit from focus towards the concentric capabilities of the hip flexors, whereas reverser-knee dominant kickers might benefit from developing the ability to decelerate the pelvis and thigh to induce motion-dependent angular acceleration of the lower leg towards the ball.		[Augustus, Simon] Kingston Univ, Dept Appl & Human Sci, London, England; [Hudson, Penny E.; Smith, Neal] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Chichester, West Sussex, England; [Augustus, Simon] Kingston Univ, Dept Appl & Human Sci, London, England								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000832889600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Nakamura, Masatoshi; Kasahara, Kazuki; Yoshida, Riku; Murakami, Yuta; Koizumi, Ryoma; Sato, Shigeru; Takeuchi, Kosuke; Nishishita, Satoru; Ye, Xin; Konrad, Andreas								Comparison of The Effect of High- and Low-Frequency Vibration Foam Rolling on The Quadriceps Muscle								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			376	382		10.52082/jssm.2022.376			SEP 2022	2022	Vibration foam rolling (VFR) intervention has recently gained attention in sports and rehabilitation settings since the superimposed vibration with foam rolling can affect several physiological systems. However, the sustained effect and a comparison of the effects of different VFR vibration frequencies on flexibility and muscle strength have not been examined. Therefore, in this study, we aimed to investigate the acute and sustained effects of three 60-s sets of VFR with different frequencies on knee flexion range of motion (ROM) and muscle strength of the knee extensors. Using a crossover, random allocation design, 16 male university students (21.2 +/- 0.6 years) performed under two conditions: VFR with low (35 Hz) and high (67 Hz) frequencies. The acute and sustained effects (20 min after intervention) of VFR on knee flexion ROM, maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVC-ISO) torque, maximum voluntary concentric contraction (MVC-CON) torque, rate of force development (RFD), and single-leg countermovement jump (CMJ) height were examined. Our results showed that knee flexion ROM increased significantly (p < 0.01) immediately after the VFR intervention and remained elevated up to 20 min, regardless of the vibration frequency. MVC-ISO and MVC-CON torque both decreased significantly (p < 0.01) immediately after the VFR intervention and remained significantly lowered up to 20 min, regardless of the vibration frequency. However, there were no significant changes in RFD or CMJ height. Our results suggest that VFR can increase knee flexion ROM but induces a decrease in muscle strength up to 20 min after VFR at both high and low frequencies.		[Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Kanzaki, Saga, Japan; [Kasahara, Kazuki; Yoshida, Riku; Murakami, Yuta; Sato, Shigeru] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Koizumi, Ryoma] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Fac Rehabil, Dept Phys Therapy, Niigata, Niigata, Japan; [Takeuchi, Kosuke] Kobe Int Univ, Fac Rehabil, Dept Phys Therapy, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Nishishita, Satoru] Tokuyukai Med Corp, Inst Rehabil Sci, Osaka, Japan; [Nishishita, Satoru] Tokuyukai Med Corp, Kansai Rehabil Hosp, Osaka, Japan; [Ye, Xin] Univ Hartford, Dept Rehabil Sci, Hartford, CT 06117 USA; [Konrad, Andreas] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Mozartgasse 14, Graz, Austria; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Nishi Kyushu Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Kanzaki, Saga, Japan								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000836219200001	36	Article; Article		
J	Soriano, Marcos A.; Jimenez-Ormeno, Ester; Haff, G. Gregory; Comfort, Paul; Giraldez-Costas, Veronica; Ruiz-Moreno, Carlos; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								A comparison of three load-velocity based methods to estimate maximum overhead press performance in weightlifters								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1585	1593		10.1177/17479541221115854			OCT 2023	2023	This study aimed to evaluate whether lifting velocity can be used to estimate the overhead press one repetition maximum (1RM) and to explore the differences in the accuracy of the 1RM between three velocity-based methods. Twenty-seven weightlifters (16 men and 11 women) participated. The first session was used to test the overhead press 1RM. The second session consisted of an incremental loading test during the overhead press. The mean velocity was registered using a transducer attached to the barbell. A 1-way repeated-measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) with Bonferroni post hoc corrections was applied to the absolute differences between the actual and predicted 1RMs. Raw differences with 95% limits of agreement and ordinary least-products regressions were used to test the concurrent validity of the 1RM prediction methods with respect to the actual 1RM. The ANOVA did not reveal significant differences for the absolute differences respect to the actual 1RM between the three 1RM prediction methods (F = 3.2, p = .073). The absolute errors were moderate for the Multiple-Point (6.1 +/- 3.7%), Two-Point(45-75) (8.6 +/- 6.2%), and Two-Point(45-90) methods (5.7 +/- 4.0%). The validity analysis showed that all the 1RM prediction methods underestimated the actual 1RM (1.0-2.2 kg), but ordinary least-products regressions failed to show fixed or proportional bias. These results suggest that the Multiple-Point and Two-Point(45-90) velocity-based methods might be viable tools to predict the overhead press 1RM in weightlifters, but practitioners are encouraged to use the direct 1RM for a more accurate prescription of the training loads.		[Soriano, Marcos A.; Jimenez-Ormeno, Ester; Giraldez-Costas, Veronica; Ruiz-Moreno, Carlos; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Strength Training & Neuromuscular Performance STr, Madrid, Spain; [Soriano, Marcos A.; Jimenez-Ormeno, Ester; Giraldez-Costas, Veronica; Ruiz-Moreno, Carlos] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Exercise Physiol Lab, Madrid, Spain; [Haff, G. Gregory; Comfort, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res CESSR, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory; Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Soriano, Marcos A.] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Strength Training & Neuromuscular Performance STr, Madrid, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000830139700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Kolstad, Ash T.; Nadeau, Luc; Eliason, Paul H.; Goulet, Claude; Hagel, Brent E.; Emery, Carolyn A.								Does disallowing body checking impact offensive performance in non-elite under-15 and under-18 youth ice hockey leagues? A video-analysis study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1521	1529		10.1177/17479541221112916			OCT 2023	2023	Policy that disallows body checking (BC) lowers the injury and concussion rate for youth ice hockey players. However, little is known about how disallowing BC influences in-game metrics of performance. This prospective cohort video-analysis study examined offensive performance in Under-15 (ages 13-14) and Under-18 (ages 15-17) youth ice hockey players in leagues allowing and disallowing BC. Fifty-two games were filmed (n = 13 BC, n = 13 non-BC) for Under-15 and Under-18 non-elite (lowest 60% and 45% divisions, respectively) divisions in Calgary, Canada. Footage was analyzed for offensive performance metrics on the puck-carrier using the validated ice hockey adapted team sport assessment procedure. Puck metrics included how the player acquired puck possession (e.g. conquered puck from an opponent, received pass from a teammate) and the outcome (e.g. shot on goal, lost puck to opponent). The puck metrics were used to compute a performance composite score for each player that accounted for the quantity (rate of puck possessions per shift time) and quality (a ratio of positive performance metrics to all metrics) of play. Mean difference's (MD) in performance composite scores were compared using multivariable linear regression (adjusted for player position and cluster by team-game) between leagues allowing and disallowing BC for both age groups. Analyses revealed no significant MD in the performance composite scores between players in BC and non-BC leagues for both age groups (Under-15: MD = 0.02, 95%CI: -0.08, 0.12; Under-18: MD = -0.06, 95%CI: -0.16, 0.03). These findings suggest no differences in offensive performance when BC is disallowed in Under-15 and Under-18 non-elite leagues.		[Kolstad, Ash T.; Eliason, Paul H.; Hagel, Brent E.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, 2500 Univ Dr,NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada; [Kolstad, Ash T.; Eliason, Paul H.; Hagel, Brent E.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp, Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Nadeau, Luc; Goulet, Claude] Laval Univ, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Eliason, Paul H.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Hotchkiss Brain Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Hagel, Brent E.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Paediat, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Hagel, Brent E.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Community Hlth Sci, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Hagel, Brent E.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, OBrien Inst Publ Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, McCaig Inst Bone & Joint Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kolstad, Ash T.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, 2500 Univ Dr,NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000829535600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Bennett, Thomas; Marshall, Phil; Barrett, Steve; Malone, James J.; Towlson, Christopher								Quantifying high-speed running in rugby league: An insight into practitioner applications and perceptions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1530	1540		10.1177/17479541221112825			OCT 2023	2023	High-speed running has previously been documented as a popular metric among rugby league researchers. Researchers place importance on high-speed running due to its inclusion in assessing the demands of training and match-play to help prescribe accurate training loads and recovery methods. However, there is currently no information available as to how important rugby league practitioners perceive high-speed running to be and what methods are currently used by practitioners to quantify high-speed running. Furthermore, practitioners' perceptions of specific benefits, barriers and motivations when selecting high-speed running methods are also currently limited. Therefore, the aim of this study was to provide a current insight into the practice and perceptions of rugby league practitioners when quantifying high-speed running. This study surveyed practitioners working in the European Super League (n = 12) and the Australasian National Rugby League (n = 11). Ranking analysis established high-speed running to be the most important metric for both training practice and match-play. Absolute high-speed running thresholds were applied by 52% of respondents (n = 12) with the most common being 5.5 m center dot s(-1) (n = 9). Individualised high-speed running thresholds were applied by 48% of respondents (n = 11) with the most common approach implementing peak sprint speed methods (n = 9). Absolute high-speed running thresholds are perceived to permit better group data comparison, whereas individualised methods are perceived to permit better interpretation of high-speed running data. Ultimately, practitioners are motivated to implement their chosen methods with the possibility of more accurately prescribed high-speed running thresholds, although the impracticality of specific testing procedures may act as a barrier.		[Bennett, Thomas] Hull EC, Kingston Upon Hull, N Humberside, England; [Bennett, Thomas; Marshall, Phil; Towlson, Christopher] Univ Hull, Dept Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Kingston Upon Hull, N Humberside, England; [Barrett, Steve] Playermaker, London, England; [Malone, James J.] Liverpool Hope Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Bennett, Thomas] Hull EC, Kingston Upon Hull, N Humberside, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000829532400001	53	Article; Article		
J	Soares, Alyne; Cintia, Lopes Ferreira; Glaviano, Neal Robert; Rabelo, Nayra Deise dos Anjos; Lucareli, Paulo Roberto Garcia								Is there a correlation between isometric muscle strength and the kinematics of the pelvis, hip and knee during functional tasks in women with patellofemoral pain?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				57				33	39		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.07.003			SEP 2022	2022	Objectives: To evaluate the correlation between isometric muscle strength of the hip abductors (HABD) and lateral rotators (HLR) with the range of motion (ROM) of the pelvis/hip in the frontal/transverse planes, respectively, and between the strength of the knee extensors (KExt) with the ROM of the knee in the sagittal plane during seven tasks. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Thirty-five women with patellofemoral pain. Main outcome measures: Maximum isometric muscle strength of the HABD, HLR, and KExt was measured using a manual dynamometer, and pelvis and lower limbs kinematics were evaluated using 3D optical system during gait, ascending and descending stairs, the forward and lateral step down tests, and the propulsion and landing phases of the single leg hop test (SLHT). Results: A weak correlation was found between KExt strength and knee ROM in the sagittal plane (p = 0.05; r = -0.33) during SLHT landing, and a moderate correlation between HABD strength and ROM of pelvic obliquity (p < 0.01; r = 0.50) during ascending stairs. Conclusions: The lower strength of KExt has a weak correlation with higher knee flexion during the landing phase of the SLHT, and the lower strength of HABD has a moderate correlation with lower pelvis ROM in the frontal plane when ascending stairs. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Soares, Alyne; Cintia, Lopes Ferreira; Rabelo, Nayra Deise dos Anjos; Lucareli, Paulo Roberto Garcia] Univ Nove de Julho, Human Mot Anal Lab, Dept Rehabil Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Glaviano, Neal Robert] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, New Haven, CT USA; [Lucareli, Paulo Roberto Garcia] 2355 Liberdade, BR-01504001 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000833590900002	40	Article; Article		
J	Viciana, Jesus; Casado-Robles, Carolina; Guijarro-Romero, Santiago; Mayorga-Vega, Daniel								ARE WRIST-WORN ACTIVITY TRACKERS AND MOBILE APPLICATIONS VALID FOR ASSESSING PHYSICAL ACTIVITY IN HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS? WEARFIT STUDY								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			356	375		10.52082/jssm.2022.356			SEP 2022	2022	The purpose was to examine the validity of three wrist-worn com-mercial activity trackers (Samsung Galaxy Watch Active 2, Ap-ple Watch Series 5, and Xiaomi Mi Band 5) and six mobile apps (Pedometer and Pacer for android and iPhone mobiles, Google Fit for android, and Apple Health for iPhone mobiles) for estimating high school students??? steps and physical activity (PA) under free-living conditions. A sample of 56 (27 females; mean age = 14.7 years) and 51 (25 females; mean age = 14.0 years) high school students participated in Study 1 and 2, respectively. Study 1: Stu-dents performed a 200-meter course in four different conditions while wearing the wearables. Step counting through a video rec-ord was used as the golden standard. Study 2: Students wore the three wrist-worn commercial activity trackers during the waking time of one day, considering ActiGraph model wGT3X-BT ac-celerometers as a standard of reference. Afterward, the agreement between the PA scores measured by the commercial activity trackers and the video (study 1) or accelerometers (study 2) were calculated as follows: Equivalence test, Limits of Agreement (LOA); Mean Absolute Error (MAE); Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE); and Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC). Re-sults showed that all the wearables presented excellent validity for assessing steps in structured free-living conditions (study 1; MAPE < 5%), although their validity was between poor-excellent based on ICC (95% confidence interval) values (ICC = 0.56-1.00). Regarding Study 2, the Xiaomi wristband and the Samsung Watch presented acceptable-excellent (MAPE = 9.4-11.4%; ICC = 0.91-0.97) validity for assessing steps under unstructured free-living conditions (study 2). However, the Apple Watch presented questionable-excellent validity (MAPE = 18.0%; ICC = 0.69-0.95). Regarding moderate-to-vigorous PA (MVPA) and total PA, only the Apple Watch showed low-acceptable validity for MAPE value and questionable-excellent validity for the ICC val-ues for MVPA assessment (MAPE = 22.6; ICC = 0.67-0.93). All wearables checked in this study have shown adequate validity re-sults in order to assess steps in both structured and unstructured free-living conditions for both continuous and dichotomous vari-ables. Moreover, for assessing MVPA, only the Apple Watch re-ported valid results for compliance or non-compliance with the daily PA recommendations. However, the results showed low va-lidity for total PA and MVPA as continuous variables. In conclu-sion, depending on the user???s/researcher???s aim and context, one or another wearable activity tracker could be more adequate, mainly because of its valid measurements and its costs.		[Viciana, Jesus; Casado-Robles, Carolina] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Guijarro-Romero, Santiago] Univ Valladolid, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Valladolid, Spain; [Mayorga-Vega, Daniel] Univ Malaga, Fac Ciencias Educ, Dept Didact Lenguas Artes & Deporte, Malaga, Spain; [Guijarro-Romero, Santiago] Univ Valladolid, Fac Educ & Social Work, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Paseo Belen 1, Valladolid 47011, Spain								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000829598900001	70	Article; Article		
J	Wardenaar, Floris C.; Seltzer, Ryan G. N.; Kavouras, Stavros A.								Accuracy and reliability of college athletes' scoring of artificial urine color samples to determine hydration status								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1550	1557		10.1177/17479541221114748			OCT 2023	2023	There is potential for error when athletes self-assess urine color when attempting to distinguish between high and low urine concentration. This study investigates student athletes' ability to score artificial urine color samples (Uc) using an 8-color Uc chart. A total of 35 student-athletes (n = 30 women) scored 51 samples on two days 2-5 days apart. Artificial urine color samples were designed to match urine colors 4-7 from an 8-color Uc chart. The color rating took place using a scoring box with LED lights providing an illuminance of 1660 lux. The data were used to design random effect models to test the contrast between the athletes' color ratings and the actual color of the reference, with significance set at P <= 0.05. Results showed that as a group, participants scored samples similarly between days (4.4 +/- 1.2 vs. 4.5 +/- 1.2, P = 0.52), but on an individual level, samples were rated inconsistently (intraclass correlation coefficient: 0.30, 95% CI: 0.13-0.56), with correlations between reported scores and the reference colors ranging from r = -0.74 to + 0.64. Samples were scored significantly lighter than their actual color shade (odds ratio: 2.64, 95% CI 1.55-4.52, P < 0.001). In conclusion, athletes scored the color of artificial urine color samples inconsistently between days. Further, the odds are 2.6 to 1 that athletes report urine samples one shade lighter than their actual color, which in practice may affect the correct classification of urine samples with a color close to the selected Uc cut-off value to detect a high versus low urine concentration.		[Wardenaar, Floris C.; Kavouras, Stavros A.] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth Solut, Phoenix, AZ 85004 USA; [Seltzer, Ryan G. N.] Safety Numbers LLC, Tucson, AZ USA; [Wardenaar, Floris C.] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth Solut, Phoenix, AZ 85004 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000828856400001	26	Article; Article		
J	Kosik, Kyle B.; Hoch, Matthew C.; Hartzell, Jacob T.; Bain, Katherine A.; Slone, Stacey; Gribble, Phillip A.								Jump landing among chronic ankle instability individuals who did or did not attend rehabilitation at the time of injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				57				26	32		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.07.005			SEP 2022	2022	Objectives: The purpose was to compare vertical ground reaction forces and sagittal-plane energy dissipation patterns of the lower extremity during a single-limb jump-stabilization task between in-dividuals with chronic ankle instability who did or did not attend rehabilitation after their initial ankle sprain. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: Eight participants with chronic ankle instability who did and 12 participants who did not attend rehabilitation were enrolled. Main outcome measures: Normalized vertical ground reaction force data were used to calculate the average loading rate, time to peak force, and the peak force. Sagittal plane kinematics and joint moments at the ankle, knee, and hip, were used to calculate each joint's relative energy dissipation at 50,100,150, and 200 ms post-landing. Results: Participants who attended rehabilitation had a slower average loading rate (P = 0.025) and smaller peak vertical ground reaction force (P = 0.025). The average relative energy dissipation at the knee was higher in those who attended rehabilitation at the 100 ms (P = 0.041), 150 ms (P = 0.046), and 200 ms (P = 0.042) time intervals. Conclusions: Attending rehabilitation after an ankle sprain may have a beneficial effect on jump -stabilization outcomes among individuals with chronic ankle instability. ?? 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kosik, Kyle B.; Hoch, Matthew C.; Gribble, Phillip A.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Athlet Training & Clin Nutr, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Hartzell, Jacob T.] HCA Virginia Sports Med, Richmond, VA USA; [Bain, Katherine A.] Shenandoah Univ, Div Phys Therapy, Leesburg, VA 20176 USA; [Slone, Stacey] Univ Kentucky, Dr Bing Zhang Dept Stat, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Kosik, Kyle B.] Univ Kentucky, Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Athlet Training & Clin Nutr, Lexington, KY 40536 USA								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000833590900001	44	Article; Article		
J	Zabaloy, Santiago; Tondelli, Eduardo; Pereira, Lucas A.; Freitas, Tomas T.; Loturco, Irineu								Training and testing practices of strength and conditioning coaches in Argentinian Rugby Union								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1331	1344		10.1177/17479541221114768			DEC 2022	2022	The Argentine Rugby Union is a top-tier rugby nation (ranked 8th according to World Rugby), with the Buenos Aires Rugby Union being the largest competitive league. To date, the training practices of Argentinian rugby strength and conditioning coaches have not yet been documented and analyzed. We used an online survey to characterize the training and testing strategies commonly implemented by Argentinian rugby strength and conditioning coaches, which could serve as a guideline for coaching education programs. Thirty-five rugby strength and conditioning coaches (age: 42.0 +/- 8.9 years; professional experience: 16.8 +/- 8.3 years) working across 35 clubs (from a total of 40 clubs) participated in the study. The survey consisted of eight sections: 1) background information; 2) strength-power development; 3) speed training; 4) plyometrics; 5) flexibility training; 6) physical testing; 7) technology use; and 8) programming. Overall, Argentinian strength and conditioning coaches did not frequently use periodization strategies to structure programs, reported a progressive reduction in training loads across the season, and prescribed primarily Olympic weightlifting and squat as resistance exercises during different training periods. The analyses of speed training revealed high utilization of form-running, plyometrics, and sport-specific movements. Our results also indicated that physical testing and technology may be affected by the economic difficulties of Argentinian clubs. This study presents new information regarding the training methods adopted by Argentinian rugby strength and conditioning coaches, while providing them with new insights to improve their professional practices. Practitioners from different countries working in competitive rugby leagues can use the information provided here to examine their own practices and implement evidence-based programs for elite rugby players.		[Zabaloy, Santiago] Univ Flores, Fac Phys Act & Sports, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Tondelli, Eduardo] Univ Buenos Aires UBA, Fac Med, Sch Physiotherapy, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Tondelli, Eduardo] Rugby Club Los Matreros, Dept Phys Therapy & Sport Med, Castelar, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Pereira, Lucas A.; Freitas, Tomas T.; Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport NAR, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Pereira, Lucas A.; Freitas, Tomas T.; Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Freitas, Tomas T.] Catholic Univ Murcia, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Zabaloy, Santiago] Univ Flores, Fac Phys Act & Sports, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000827862700001	77	Article; Article		
J	Muyor, Jose M.; Antequera-Vique, Jose A.; Oliva-Lozano, Jose M.; Arrabal-Campos, Francisco M.								Effect of incremental intensities on the spinal morphology and core muscle activation in competitive cyclists								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	4			597	620		10.1080/14763141.2022.2097945			APR 3 2023	2023	Cycling is a sport where cyclists predominantly adopt a sitting posture, with the trunk tilted forward. This posture requires a high volume of training and duration in several intensities of effort. This study aims to: 1) evaluate the behaviour of the thoracic and lumbar spine flexion and sacral inclination in the sagittal plane, the thoracic and lumbar spine flexion in the frontal plane, and the trunk torsion in the transverse plane; 2) compare the activation of the core muscles as the intensity of effort increases during an incremental test in cycling, and 3) identify which core muscle has a greater activation in each intensity zone. The spinal posture and the activation of the eight core muscles were evaluated in twelve competitive cyclists during incremental cycling intensities. Thoracic and lumbar spine flexion and sacral inclination statistically increased as the intensity of effort increased (Start < VT1 < VT2 < VO2max). A significant increase in muscle activation was observed in all core muscles evaluated as the intensity increased. The rectus abdominis showed statistically significant greater muscle activation than the other core muscles evaluated. In conclusion, as the intensity of effort in cycling increases, cyclists significantly increase the thoracic and lumbar spine flexion, the sacral inclination in the sagittal plane, the thoracic and lumbar spine flexion in the frontal plane, trunk rotation in the transverse plane, as well as the activation of the core muscles.		[Muyor, Jose M.; Antequera-Vique, Jose A.; Oliva-Lozano, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Hlth Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain; [Muyor, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Lab Kinesiol Biomech & Ergon KIBIOMER Lab, Almeria, Spain; [Arrabal-Campos, Francisco M.] Univ Almeria, Engn Dept, Almeria, Spain; [Muyor, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Hlth Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain; [Muyor, Jose M.] Univ Almeria, Lab Kinesiol Biomech & Ergon KIBIOMER Lab, Almeria, Spain								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000826027000001	60	Article; Article		
J	Anderson, David; Cathcart, John; Kerr, Daniel; Moore, Isabel; Hislop, Mike; Wilson, Iseult								An investigation of coaches' awareness of injury in elite adolescent rugby union in Northern Irish schools- A qualitative study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				57				17	25		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.06.004			SEP 2022	2022	Objectives: To examine the decision-making processes employed by schools' Rugby coaches in the management of injured players and to explore the factors that influenced those decisions. A secondary objective was to gauge interest in an education focused toolkit for schools' Rugby coaches. Design: A qualitative study using one-to-one online interviews. Setting: Schools who compete in the Ulster Schools' Cup Rugby competition. Participants: Eleven Rugby union coaches from four post primary schools. Outcome measures: A thematic analysis approach was used to examine the factors that influence schools' Rugby coaches' decision-making processes in the management of injured players. Results: Findings suggest coaches are influenced in their decision making by four primary factors: their experience and learning, their relationships with other stakeholders, their knowledge and understanding of the roles and responsibilities of medical staff, healthcare and health fitness professionals, and re-sources available to them. Conclusions: Schools' Rugby coaches play a significant role in the supervision of injured adolescent Rugby players, often drawing from their playing and coaching experiences. Schools retain, or recommend the services, of healthcare professionals (HCPs) and health and fitness professionals (HFPs). The role of these healthcare and health and fitness professionals, along with their qualifications and experience is not fully understood by coaches. Coaches acknowledge that there is a need for further training and would welcome education initiatives aimed at increasing awareness of musculoskeletal injury in schoolboy Rugby players. (c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).		[Anderson, David] Ulster Univ, Life & Hlth Sci, Jordanstown Campus, Newtownabbey, North Ireland; [Cathcart, John; Kerr, Daniel] Ulster Univ, Inst Nursing & Hlth Res, Sch Hlth Sci, Jordanstown Campus, Newtownabbey, North Ireland; [Moore, Isabel] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth, Cardiff, Wales; [Hislop, Mike] World Rugby, Player Welf & Rugby Serv Dept, Dublin, Ireland; [Wilson, Iseult] Queens Univ Belfast, Sch Nursing & Midwifery, Belfast, Antrim, North Ireland; [Anderson, David] Ulster Univ, Shore Rd, Newtownabbey BT37 0QB, North Ireland								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000829169600003	40	Article; Article		
J	Steele, Julie R.								Long-term lessons learned in biomechanics: 2021 Geoffrey Dyson Lecture								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2097121				2022	After recently accepting an offer to retire, I have taken the opportunity to reflect on long-term lessons learned throughout my 40-year career as a biomechanist in academia. These lessons formed the basis of my 2021 Geoffrey Dyson Lecture and are summarised within this article. Most of these lessons are targeted at early career researchers, although my recent transition into retirement revealed some unexpected lessons that apply to senior academics. The lessons presented relate to the need to be passionate and persistent about your research, the importance of being unique and embracing failure as a mentor, as well as running with opportunities that arise. Appreciating that a career takes time to evolve, strategies to nurture a committed and supportive research team, the importance of committing to a professional society, and the need to be kind to yourself are also discussed. Why so few women receive career awards in biomechanics and when should academics retire are also addressed. I hope that highlighting lessons learned over an academic career as a biomechanist, combined with suggested practical strategies to thrive in academia, ensure academics can savour a fulfiling career in biomechanics while producing high-quality research into the future.		[Steele, Julie R.] Univ Wollongong, Biomech Res Lab, Wollongong, NSW, Australia; [Steele, Julie R.] Univ Wollongong, Biomech Res Lab, Wollongong, NSW, Australia								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000825456800001	52	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Saether, Stig Arve; Feddersen, Niels; Andresen, Eirik; Bjorndal, Christian Thue								Balancing sport and academic development: Perceptions of football players and coaches in two types of Norwegian school-based dual career development environments								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1270	1282		10.1177/17479541221111462			DEC 2022	2022	Sports-friendly and elite sport schools seek to support pupils by providing balanced support which is intended to facilitate success both in sport and in academic work. This study investigates how ambitious football players in Norway experience the advantages and challenges of undertaking a 'dual career' as student-athletes. Eight players and five coaches (two club coaches and three school coaches) in total were interviewed from two sports-friendly schools and two elite sports schools, and the data were analysed using thematic analysis. In the Elite Sport Programmes, the close integration of the school and club settings enabled coaches and student-athletes to plan and manage the overall workload and development of the student-athletes more easily. In contrast, players in the less structured Sports-Friendly Programmes experienced more concerns related to workload coordination but were also given more responsibility for their own decision making. This helped to facilitate better self-determination among the student-athletes but also increased their risk of overuse injuries. Our results indicate how different dual career development environments offer varying benefits, risks and developmental opportunities for student-athletes.		[Saether, Stig Arve; Feddersen, Niels; Andresen, Eirik] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Sociol & Polit Sci, NTNU, Trondheim, Norway; [Bjorndal, Christian Thue] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Inst Sport & Social Sci, Oslo, Norway; [Bjorndal, Christian Thue] Norwegian Res Ctr Children & Youth Sports, Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo, Norway; [Saether, Stig Arve] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Sociol & Polit Sci, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000825060500001	47	Article; Article		
J	Barry, Lorna; Lyons, Mark; McCreesh, Karen; Powell, Cormac; Comyns, Tom								International survey of injury surveillance practices in competitive swimming								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				57				1	10		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.07.001			SEP 2022	2022	Objective: The purpose of this study was to identify the injury surveillance practices being used in competitive swimming environments. It explored the nature of the data collected, the injury definitions used and the perceived effectiveness of injury surveillance. Finally, this study also examined barriers to injury surveillance. Design: Online cross-sectional. Participants: Twenty-two responders working in competitive swimming. Outcome measures: Injury surveillance methods, data collected, perceived level of effectiveness and barriers associated with injury surveillance. Results: Fifteen responders participated in injury surveillance, with 13 responders using a recognised definition for injury. Ten responders did not use any sports injury classification system. Ten responders found injury surveillance to be very effective at identifying injury trends, while previous injury history and training load data were perceived to be most influential in preventing injury. Limited time, funding and compliance were common obstacles, while poor staff communication and engagement were barriers to the effective implementation of injury surveillance. Conclusions: The implementation of injury surveillance is related to the system objectives, competitive level of those under surveillance and the resources available. This implementation requires the balance of adhering to the principles outlined in prominent consensus statements and overcoming the barriers associated with implementing a system effectively. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Barry, Lorna; Lyons, Mark; Comyns, Tom] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [McCreesh, Karen] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Barry, Lorna] Irish Sport HQ, Swim Ireland, Performance Dept, Dublin, Ireland; [Lyons, Mark; Comyns, Tom] Univ Limerick, Sport & Human Performance Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [McCreesh, Karen] Univ Limerick, Ageing Res Ctr, Limerick, Ireland; [Barry, Lorna; Lyons, Mark; McCreesh, Karen; Comyns, Tom] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Powell, Cormac] Sport Ireland Natl Sports Campus, High Performance Unit, Sport Ireland, Dublin, Ireland; [Powell, Cormac] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Phys Act Hlth Cluster, Limerick, Ireland; [Barry, Lorna] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000829169600001	48	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Nigel A.; Bourne, Matthew N.; Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich; Barrett, Rod S.; Hides, Julie A.								Nordic strength and history of hamstring injury in Australian Football League players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				57				11	16		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.06.006			SEP 2022	2022	Objectives: Compare hamstring strength between Australian Football League (AFL) players with and without a prior hamstring injury and determine the effect of the number of previous hamstring injuries, time since the last injury, and injury severity, on hamstring strength. Design: Cross-sectional, retrospective. Setting: AFL clubs. Participants: 124 AFL players. Main outcome measures: Bilateral hamstring strength was assessed on a Nordbord (Vald Performance) during the Nordic Hamstring Exercise. Self-reported questionnaires were used to record previous hamstring injuries. Players were categorized into No Injury or Hamstring Injury groups. Previously injured players were subgrouped based on number of prior hamstring injuries (single or multiple), time since the last hamstring injury (<= 1 or> 1-year ago), and hamstring injury severity (<= 3 or> 3 matches missed). Results: 19 hamstring injuries were reported. Hamstring strength was not different between players with and without a history of hamstring injury when assessed in absolute (N) or relative (i.e., N.kg(-1)) terms. No differences in strength were detected between hamstring injury subgroups when assessed in absolute or relative terms. Conclusions: AFL players that experienced a previous hamstring injury did not exhibit deficits in hamstring strength relative to their uninjured limb or players without a previous hamstring injury. (C) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Smith, Nigel A.; Bourne, Matthew N.; Barrett, Rod S.; Hides, Julie A.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Clin Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Smith, Nigel A.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, 170 Kessels Rd, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000829169600002	19	Article; Article		
J	Viljoen, Carel; van Rensburg, Dina C. Janse; van Mechelen, Willem; Verhagen, Evert; Korkie, Elzette; Botha, Tanita								Development of a trail running injury screening instrument: A multiple methods approach								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				56				60	75		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.06.003			JUL 2022	2022	Objective: To develop a trail running injury screening instrument (TRISI) for utilisation as clinical deci-sion aid in determining if a trail runner is at an increased risk for injury. Design: Multiple methods approach. Methods: The study utilised five phases 1) identification of injury risk factors 2) determining the rele-vance of each identified risk factor in a trail running context, 3) creating the content of the Likert scale points from 0 to 4, 4) rescaling the Likert scale points to determine numerical values for the content of each Likert scale point, and 5) determining a weighted score for each injury risk factor that contributes to the overall combined composite score. Results: Of the 77 identified injury risk factors, 26 were deemed relevant in trail running. The weighted score for each injury risk factor ranged from 2.21 to 5.53 with the highest calculated score being 5.53. The final TRISI includes risk categories of training, running equipment, demographics, previous injury, behavioural, psychological, nutrition, chronic disease, physiological, and biomechanical factors. Conclusion: The developed TRISI aims to assist the clinician during pre-race injury screening or during a training season to identify meaningful areas to target in designing injury risk management strategies and/or continuous health education. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Viljoen, Carel; Korkie, Elzette] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, ZA-0028 Pretoria, South Africa; [Viljoen, Carel; van Mechelen, Willem; Verhagen, Evert] Amsterdam Univ Med Ctr, Locat VU Univ Med Ctr, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth,Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Viljoen, Carel] Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Pretoria, South Africa; [van Rensburg, Dina C. Janse] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [van Rensburg, Dina C. Janse] World Netball, Manchester, Lancs, England; [van Mechelen, Willem] Univ Queensland, Fac Hlth & Behav Sci, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [van Mechelen, Willem] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med ESSM, Cape Town, South Africa; [van Mechelen, Willem] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Populat Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Botha, Tanita] Univ Pretoria, Fac Nat & Agr Sci, Dept Stat, Pretoria, South Africa; [Viljoen, Carel] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, ZA-0028 Pretoria, South Africa								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000826339500002	63	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Shin-Yuan; Lan, Pei-Tzu; Hsu, Tai-Ger								Learning effects of triple continuous jumping snatch intervention on the second pull of the snatch for novice lifters								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1577	1584		10.1177/17479541221113024			OCT 2023	2023	This study aimed to compare the effects of triple continuous jumping snatch (TCJS) intervention training on the technique and performance of novice lifters. Males (n = 22; age = 19.7 +/- 0.9 years; height = 173.7 +/- 6.1 cm; body mass = 76.3 +/- 11.8 kg) who had no training experience in weightlifting were randomly assigned to a control (CG; n = 11) or an experimental (EG; n = 11) group, and trained three times a week for 8 weeks. The CG was trained in the snatch, and EG intervened with TCJS. In the initial state, t-tests and Hedges' effect sizes revealed significant and very large-to-nearly perfect differences (p < 0.001, g = 6.39) for barbell velocity while the barbell made contact with the body and the maximal barbell acceleration after contact (p < 0.001, g = 3.79) between CG and EG. Moreover, differences in the angle between the barbell and the shoulder prior to the turnover phase exhibited significant and moderate decreases in weeks 2, 6, and 8 (all p < 0.05, g = 0.63-0.98) by performing the snatch with the TCJS intervention. The TCJS not only impacts barbell velocity and acceleration immediately, but also reduces horizontal movement between the barbell and body. The results of this study demonstrated that the TCJS constitutes a superior training method for novice lifters to enhance the stability of techniques when compared with snatch.		[Wang, Shin-Yuan; Hsu, Tai-Ger] Univ Taipei, Grad Inst Sports Training, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wang, Shin-Yuan] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Dept Exercise Hlth Sci, 16,Sec 1,Shuang Shih Rd, Taichung 404, Taiwan; [Lan, Pei-Tzu] China Med Univ Hosp, Clin Trial Ctr, Taichung, Taiwan; [Wang, Shin-Yuan] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Dept Exercise Hlth Sci, 16,Sec 1,Shuang Shih Rd, Taichung 404, Taiwan								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000825811100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Monteiro, Ricardo; Monteiro, Diogo; Torregrossa, Miguel; Travassos, Bruno								Modeling athletic career of football players: Implications for career management and retirement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	5			1478	1486		10.1177/17479541221111616			OCT 2023	2023	This study aimed to identify Career Indicators (CIs) over the stages of career development (Initiation/Development, Mastery, and Discontinuation stages) in the retirement stage of Portuguese football players. Three thousand five hundred retired Portuguese football players that played between 1960 and 2018 were considered in this study. A path analysis was performed to identify the standardized direct and indirect effects of the CI at each stage of career development, on Portuguese football players' retirement age. The proposed model highlighted that the relationship between the CI number of seasons as a youth player, number of seasons as a youth player in top 3 clubs, age of first registration as a senior player, number of seasons as a senior player, number of seasons as a senior player in top 3 clubs, number of total games as a senior player, age of the last best result age achieved, number of games in the retirement season, and discontinuation stage length contribute to explain 40% of the retirement age of Portuguese football players. Results allowed the understanding of the influence of each stage of career development on career length. According to the Holistic Athletic Career Model, it was the first attempt to create a predictive model of CI of athletic variables. Further research should be developed to incorporate some mediator variables such as players' performance levels and achievement to improve the explanation of the development of football players' careers and retirement.		[Monteiro, Ricardo; Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Polytech Leiria, ESECS, Leiria, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo; Travassos, Bruno] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Life Qual Res Ctr CIEQV, Leiria, Portugal; [Torregrossa, Miguel] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Bellaterra, Spain; [Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior UBI, Dept Sport Sci, P-6200001 Covilha, Portugal								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000822892800001	36	Article; Article		
J	Ford, Jessica L.; Masters, Sydney; Vosloo, Justine								High school coaches' attitudes toward sport psychology consultation and the barriers to implementation of sport psychology services								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			999	1008		10.1177/17479541221101226			OCT 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to examine high school coaches' attitudes toward sport psychology consultation and the barriers to implementation of sport psychology services. A convenience sample of 296 high school coaches (n(male) = 225; n(female) = 71) across the Northeast region of the United States completed the Sport Psychology Attitudes Revised Coaches-2 questionnaire and an open-ended question, "What are the barriers to using a sport psychology consultant with your team?". Results showed that high school coaches had a positive attitude toward sport psychology services, believed these services were useful, were moderately willing to be personally involved in these services with their athletes, and did not show a strong preference for those of a similar cultural identity. However, barriers to implementation of sport psychology services were identified, such as cost, time, sport psychology consultant access and availability, coaches' lack of knowledge about the role of a sport psychology consultant, stigma from the athletes, lack of administrative and parental support, "fit" and competency of the sport psychology consultant, evidence of effectiveness, no need for a sport psychology consultant, and issues with confidentiality/consent. These barriers reflect the current challenges associated with the standards of practice within the field of sport psychology. Expanding sport psychology services to the high school domain has the potential to foster young athletes' emotional and physical development and thus, improve athlete performance.		[Ford, Jessica L.] McDaniel Coll, Dept Kinesiol, Gill Ctr 034,2 Coll Hill, Westminster, MD 21157 USA; [Masters, Sydney] Arizona Diamondbacks, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Vosloo, Justine] Ithaca Coll, Dept Exercise Sci & Athlet Training, Ithaca, NY 14850 USA; [Ford, Jessica L.] McDaniel Coll, Dept Kinesiol, Gill Ctr 034,2 Coll Hill, Westminster, MD 21157 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000822896400001	36	Article; Article		
J	Alt, Tobias; Oeppert, Tom J.; Zedler, Marvin; Goldmann, Jan-Peter; Braunstein, Bjoern; Willwacher, Steffen								A novel guideline for the analysis of linear acceleration mechanics - outlining a conceptual framework of 'shin roll' motion								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2094827				2022	Linear acceleration is a key performance determinant and major training component of many sports. Although extensive research about lower limb kinetics and kinematics is available, consistent definitions of distinctive key body positions, the underlying mechanisms and their related movement strategies are lacking. The aim of this 'Method and Theoretical Perspective' article is to introduce a conceptual framework which classifies the sagittal plane 'shin roll' motion during accelerated sprinting. By emphasising the importance of the shin segment's orientation in space, four distinctive key positions are presented ('shin block', 'touchdown', 'heel lock' and 'propulsion pose'), which are linked by a progressive 'shin roll' motion during swing-stance transition. The shin's downward tilt is driven by three different movement strategies ('shin alignment', 'horizontal ankle rocker' and 'shin drop'). The tilt's optimal amount and timing will contribute to a mechanically efficient acceleration via timely staggered proximal-to-distal power output. Empirical data obtained from athletes of different performance levels and sporting backgrounds are required to verify the feasibility of this concept. The framework presented here should facilitate future biomechanical analyses and may enable coaches and practitioners to develop specific training programs and feedback strategies to provide athletes with a more efficient acceleration technique.		[Alt, Tobias] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Westphalia, Dept Biomech Performance Anal & Strength & Condit, Dortmund, Germany; [Oeppert, Tom J.; Braunstein, Bjoern] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Movement & Neurosci, Cologne, Germany; [Zedler, Marvin; Goldmann, Jan-Peter; Braunstein, Bjoern] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany; [Zedler, Marvin; Goldmann, Jan-Peter; Braunstein, Bjoern] German Res Ctr Elite Sport, Momentum, Cologne, Germany; [Braunstein, Bjoern] German Sport Univ Cologne, Ctr Hlth & Integrat Physiol Space, Cologne, Germany; [Willwacher, Steffen] Offenburg Univ Appl Sci, Dept Mech & Proc Engn, Offenburg, Germany; [Alt, Tobias] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Westphalia, Dept Biomech Performance Anal & Strength & Condit, Dortmund, Germany								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000823585200001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Javier Robles-Palazon, Francisco; Ruiz-Perez, Inaki; Aparicio-Sarmiento, Alba; Cejudo, Antonio; Ayala, Francisco; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar								Incidence, burden, and pattern of injuries in Spanish male youth soccer players: A prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				56				48	59		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.06.005			JUL 2022	2022	Objectives: To explore the incidence, burden, and pattern of injuries in Spanish male youth soccer players during a 9-month competitive season (from September to May-June). Design: Prospective cohort study. Participants: 314 young (10-19 years) soccer players. Main outcome measures: Incidence, burden, location, type, severity, mechanism, and circumstance of injuries, as well as potential differences by tactical position, month of the year, age group, and maturity status. Results: A total of 146 time-loss injuries were sustained by 101 different players. This resulted in an overall injury incidence of 3.1 injuries per 1000 h, a training injury incidence of 1.8 injuries per 1000 h, and a match injury incidence of 11.2 injuries per 1000 h. The probability of injury over the season was 34%. Most of the injuries affected the lower extremity and were classified as muscle/tendon injuries, with hamstring muscle injuries representing the most burdensome diagnosis. The incidence of injuries increased with age and maturation, but a heightened risk of overuse injuries during periods around peak height velocity was also identified. .Conclusions: These findings suggest a need for implementing specific injury prevention measures. Due to the high burden shown, these measures should mainly focus on reducing the number and severity of hamstring muscle injuries. (c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).		[Javier Robles-Palazon, Francisco; Aparicio-Sarmiento, Alba; Cejudo, Antonio; Ayala, Francisco; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Campus Excellence Mare Nostrum,C Argentina S-N, Murcia 30720, Spain; [Javier Robles-Palazon, Francisco; Ruiz-Perez, Inaki; Aparicio-Sarmiento, Alba; Cejudo, Antonio; Ayala, Francisco; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar] Univ Murcia, Sports & Musculoskeletal Syst Res Grp RAQUIS, Murcia, Spain; [Ruiz-Perez, Inaki] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Ayala, Francisco] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Campus Excellence Mare Nostrum,C Argentina S-N, Murcia 30720, Spain								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000826339500001	51	Article; Article		
J	Alcantara, Chellsea Hortencio; Machado, Joao Claudio; Teixeira, Rodrigo Mendonca; Rossato, Mateus; Teixeira, Anderson Santiago; da Silva, Juliano Fernandes								What Factors Discriminate Young Soccer Players Perceived as Promising and Less Promising by Their Coaches?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			966	974		10.1080/02701367.2022.2088675			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study aimed to verify whether there are differences in physical, technical, and tactical assessment outcomes derived from field-based tests and small-sided games (SSG) in addition to anthropometric and maturational characteristics between players classified as promising and less promising as per the coaches' perception. Method: A total of 53 male U-15 youth soccer players (age: 14.8 +/- 0.2 years, weight: 61.7 +/- 6.9 kg, height: 171.8 +/- 6.7 cm) and three experienced coaches from three distinct sports clubs were enrolled in this study. Based on the coaches' perception, players were split into three group levels for both short- and long-term success ranking: (i) promising (PL; top 5 players; n = 15), (ii) intermediate (IL; n = 23) and (iii) less promising (LPL; 5 bottom players; n = 15). The following measures were determined: anthropometry, maturity offset, vertical jump, and aerobic-anaerobic running performance, soccer- specific skills tests, GPS-based running metrics, technical and tactical actions during SSG, and minutes played throughout the season. Results: There were no differences between groups for anthropometrical, maturational, and physical outcomes. PL players in both rankings covered more distances at sprinting and presented more offensive technical and tactical actions during SSG than their LPL peers. PL and IL presented more minutes played in competitive seasons than LPL of short-term ranking. Conclusion: The biggest differences between the players ranked by their coaches were apparent only during a representative game task, emphasizing the importance of SSG as a tool to assess the players' technical-tactical awareness. In addition to the SSG, the coach's eye plays a key role during the talent identification and selection process.		[Alcantara, Chellsea Hortencio; Machado, Joao Claudio; Teixeira, Rodrigo Mendonca; Rossato, Mateus] Univ Fed Amazonas, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Alcantara, Chellsea Hortencio; Teixeira, Rodrigo Mendonca; Teixeira, Anderson Santiago; da Silva, Juliano Fernandes] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Alcantara, Chellsea Hortencio] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Res Ctr Dev Football & Futsal, Sports Ctr, Campus Univ Trindade, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000822348000001	50	Article; Article		
J	Oxendale, Chelsea L.; Highton, Jamie; Smith, Grace; Twist, Craig								Can Player Tracking Devices Monitor Changes in Internal Response During Multidirectional Running?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			975	981		10.1080/02701367.2022.2092049			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: We examined the movement, physiological and muscle function responses to running with and without (i.e. linear) multiple directional changes to understand which measures of external demands better reflected changes in the internal response. Methods: Twelve team sport athletes completed a linear and multidirectional running trial during which movement characteristics, oxygen consumption ((V) over dotO(2)), blood lactate (B(La]) and heart rate (HR) were measured. Isometric peak torque of knee extensors and flexors was also assessed before and after each trial. Results: High speed running distance was higher during the linear trial (p < 0.001), whereas time at high metabolic power (p = 0.046), number of accelerations (p < 0.001), summated HR (p = 0.003) and B[La] (p = 0.002) were higher during the multidirectional trial. Integrated external to internal ratios of high-speed running: summated HR and highspeed running: total (V) over dotO(2) were different between multidirectional and linear trials (p <= 0.001). Conversely, high metabolic power: summated HR and high metabolic power: total (V) over dotO(2) were similar (p >= 0.246). Small decrements in knee flexor (p = 0.003) and extensor torque (p >= 0.004) were observed after both trials. Conclusion: Time at high metabolic power better reflects the increased internal response during running with more directional changes than high speed running.		[Oxendale, Chelsea L.; Highton, Jamie; Smith, Grace; Twist, Craig] Univ Chester, Chester, Cheshire, England; [Oxendale, Chelsea L.] Univ Chester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Parkgate Rd, Chester CH1 4BJ, Cheshire, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000821748300001	41	Article; Article		
J	McEwan, Gary P.; Unnithan, Viswanath B.; Easton, Chris; Arthur, Rosie								Training practices and perceptions of soccer officials: Insights from the Referee Training Activity Questionnaire								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1173	1189		10.1177/17479541221110707			AUG 2023	2023	This study sought to: (1) document the multifaceted training practices of soccer officials in relation to their role and officiating category; and (2) explore the association between the officials' training practices and perceptions of the attributes pertinent to optimal performance. Field referees and assistant referees at officiating categories 1-3 (n = 173) with the Scottish Football Association were invited to participate in this national cross-sectional study. Using the Referee Training Activity Questionnaire (RTAQ), officials reported the volume and type of training engaged in during a 2-week in-season period. Respondents' perceptions of the skills pertinent to performance were also explored using a 7-point Likert scale (1 = not at all important; 7 = extremely important), with the frequency in which they trained these skills assessed using a 5-point Likert Scale (1 = less than once a month; 5 = more than once a week). Ninety-one responses were received, representing a 52.6% response rate. Irrespective of their role or level of professional attainment, the officials' training was focused mostly on physical conditioning, with significantly less time apportioned to decision-making (P < 0.001; ES = 1.28), psychological (P < 0.001; ES = 1.47), and technical (P < 0.001; ES = 1.23) skills training. Meanwhile, although decision-making and psychological skills were rated as "very important" to "extremely important" amongst both field referees and assistant referees, officials purposefully trained these skills "less than once a month." The present study provides important new insights into the training practices engaged in by soccer officials. As accurate decision-making is at the forefront of soccer officiating, enhancing the exposure of match officials to match-related decision-making during training should be considered a priority for future research.		[McEwan, Gary P.; Unnithan, Viswanath B.; Easton, Chris; Arthur, Rosie] Univ West Scotland, Div Sport & Exercise, Glasgow G72 0LH, Lanark, Scotland; [McEwan, Gary P.] Univ West Scotland, Div Sport & Exercise, Glasgow G72 0LH, Lanark, Scotland								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000821654400001	49	Article; Article		
J	Heuvelmans, Pieter; Benjaminse, Anne; Bolt, Ruben; Baumeister, Jochen; Otten, Egbert; Gokeler, Alli								Concurrent validation of the Noraxon MyoMotion wearable inertial sensors in change-of-direction and jump-landing tasks								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	2			184	199		10.1080/14763141.2022.2093264			FEB 1 2025	2025	Wearable inertial sensors (WIS) facilitate the preservation of the athlete-environment relationship by allowing measurement outside the laboratory. WIS systems should be validated for team sports movements before they are used in sports performance and injury prevention research. The aim of the present study was to investigate the concurrent validity of a wearable inertial sensor system in quantifying joint kinematics during team sport movements. Ten recreationally active participants performed change-of-direction (single-leg deceleration and sidestep cut) and jump-landing (single-leg hop, single-leg crossover hop, and double-leg vertical jump) tasks while motion was recorded by nine inertial sensors (Noraxon MyoMotion, Noraxon USA Inc.) and eight motion capture cameras (Vicon Motion Systems Ltd). Validity of lower-extremity joint kinematics was assessed using measures of agreement (cross-correlation: XCORR) and error (root mean square deviation; and amplitude difference). Excellent agreement (XCORR >0.88) was found for sagittal plane kinematics in all joints and tasks. Highly variable agreement was found for frontal and transverse plane kinematics at the hip and ankle. Errors were relatively high in all planes. In conclusion, the WIS system provides valid estimates of sagittal plane joint kinematics in team sport movements. However, researchers should correct for offsets when comparing absolute joint angles between systems.		[Heuvelmans, Pieter; Baumeister, Jochen; Gokeler, Alli] Paderborn Univ, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Exercise Sci & Neurosci Unit, Paderborn, Germany; [Benjaminse, Anne; Bolt, Ruben; Otten, Egbert] Univ Groningen, Fac Med Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Benjaminse, Anne] Hanze Univ Groningen, Sch Sport Studies, Groningen, Netherlands; [Heuvelmans, Pieter] Paderborn Univ, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Exercise Sci & Neurosci Unit, Paderborn, Germany								25							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000820073800001	20	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Bragada, Jose A.; Silva, Rui; Nevill, Alan M.; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Marinho, Daniel A.								Analysis of the physiological response in junior tennis players during short-term recovery: Understanding the magnitude of recovery until and after the 25 seconds rule								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1208	1216		10.1177/17479541221110677			AUG 2023	2023	Literature lacks evidence about the physiological recovery of tennis players between points. This study aimed to: (i) verify the heart rate (HR) and oxygen uptake (V?O-2) recovery variance in young tennis players from the end of a tennis drill until the 25-s mark and onwards (65-s limit), performed at several intensities, and (ii) test the curve fitting that better characterizes the players' HR and V?O-2 recovery, from the end of the drill until the 65-s mark. The sample was composed of 13 male tennis players (age: 16.80 +/- 1.61 years) recruited from a National Tennis Association. Players were instructed to perform a drill test ("two-line drill wide mode") based on an intensity increment protocol. Three levels of intensity were used based on the reserve HR and V?O-2. A significance level effect was observed on the HRreserve and V?O-2reserve (P < .001). At all three levels of intensity, the first 25 s were enough to significantly (P < .001) recover the HRreserve and V?O-2reserve. The same significance trend (P < .001) was maintained until the 65 s but with a lower magnitude over time. Overall, the HR and V?O-2 curve fitting indicated a cubic relationship at the three levels of intensity (except the V?O-2 at the first level). Considering the specific test performed, players significantly elicited their physiological profile for every additional 10 s (after the 25-s rule) in the three levels of intensity performed. Despite this being a drill test and not a competitive point, coaches, players, and tennis organizations should be aware of these findings.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Bragada, Jose A.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sports Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Bragada, Jose A.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Silva, Rui] Associacao Tenis Porto, Porto, Portugal; [Nevill, Alan M.] Wolverhampton Univ, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Wolverhampton, England; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Univ Maia ISMAI, Res Ctr Sports Sci, Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sports Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sports Sci, Campus Sta Apolonia,Apartado 1101, P-5301856 Braganca, Portugal								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000821131400001	39	Article; Article		
J	Thompson, Isobel Margaret; Warner, Martin; Hudson, Dominic; Banks, Joseph; Logan, Oliver								Coaching practices to develop underwater fly kick performance in swimming training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			984	998		10.1177/17479541221101598			OCT 2022	2022	This study assessed current swimming coaching practices surrounding underwater fly kick. Ten elite coaches completed face-to-face interviews, and 56 coaches completed an online survey. Coaches use a range of methods both in and out of the pool to develop key aspects of fly kick. Sixty eight percent of coaches reported they do not have access to resources that would aid with their ability to develop fly kick. Results show that coaches are considering a range of variables when attempting to improve fly kick, with the three most important highlighted as kick frequency, kick symmetry and coordination. Coordination is reported as the variable presenting the greatest difficulties when coaching due to athlete's physical restrictions and individual differences, as well as difficulties in coaching proprioception. Coaches are using a variety of resources to inform their approaches in underwater fly kick, but report coach certification and education resources as having the lowest influence on their coaching methods. Generally, results indicate a lack of skill acquisition knowledge and education in underwater fly kick. Reflecting upon coaches' views and approaches allows for further research to develop understanding of interventions used to improve fly kick, and aids with the transfer of key research findings into practice.		[Thompson, Isobel Margaret; Hudson, Dominic; Banks, Joseph] Univ Southampton, Fac Engn & Phys Sci, Performance Sport Engn Lab, Southampton, Hants, England; [Warner, Martin] Univ Southampton, Sch Hlth Sci, Performance Sport Engn Lab, Southampton, Hants, England; [Logan, Oliver] Loughborough Univ, British Swimming, Sportpk, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Thompson, Isobel Margaret] Univ Southampton, Fac Engn & Phys Sci, Performance Sport Engn Lab, Southampton, Hants, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000822186000001	78	Article; Article		
J	Taberner, M.; O'keefe, J.; Dunn, A.; Cohen, D. D.								Return to sport and beyond following intramuscular tendon hamstring injury: A case report of an English Premier League football player								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				56				38	47		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.013			JUL 2022	2022	Background: Hamstring strain injuries are the most common type of injury in elite football and are associated with a high risk of reinjury, particularly those involving the intramuscular tendon (IMT). Limited information is available regarding the rehabilitation and return to sport (RTS) processes following such injuries. This case study describes the clinical presentation of an elite football player following IMT hamstring injury, their on- and off-pitch rehabilitation alongside performance monitoring throughout RTS and beyond. Case scenario: An elite football player suffered a grade 2c hamstring injury during an English Premier League (EPL) match. The player underwent early post-injury management, alongside progressive offpitch physical preparation. The ???control-chaos continuum??? was used as a framework for on-pitch rehabilitation to prepare the player for a return to full team training and competition. Objective and subjective markers of the player's response to progressive on- and off-pitch loading were monitored throughout RTS and beyond. Outcomes: The player returned to on-pitch rehabilitation after 11 days, to full team training having achieved weekly pre-injury chronic running load outputs after 35 days and played in the EPL 40 days post-injury. The player did not suffer reinjury for the rest of the EPL season. Conclusion: An understanding the unique structural and mechanical properties of the IMT, alongside expected RTS timeframes are important to inform rehabilitation and decision-making processes postinjury. Performance and frequent load-response monitoring throughout RTS and beyond, in conjunction with practitioner experience and effective communication are critical in facilitating effective RTS and reduce risk of reinjury following IMT injury.		[Taberner, M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [O'keefe, J.] Everton Football Club, Acad Sports Sci Dept, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Dunn, A.] Royal Liverpool & Broadgreen Univ Hosp NHS Trust, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Dunn, A.] Spire Healthcare Ltd, OrthTeam, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Cohen, D. D.] Univ Santander UDES, Masira Res Inst, Bucaramanga, Colombia; [Cohen, D. D.] Colombian Minist Sport Mindeporte, Sports Sci Ctr CCD, Bogota, Colombia; [Taberner, M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000821470400002	47	Article; Article		
J	Dudley, Robert I.; Lohman, Everett B.; Patterson, Christopher S.; Knox, Kyra G.; Gharibvand, Lida								The relationship between kinesiophobia and biomechanics in anterior cruciate ligament reconstructed females								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				56				32	37		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.06.002			JUL 2022	2022	Objective: Kinesiophobia has been associated with deleterious biomechanical alterations during dual-limb landing tasks in anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstructed females, however, no research has yet investigated single-limb tasks related to ACL injury. The aim of this investigation was to examine the relationship between kinesiophobia and biomechanics during a series of dual and single-limb functional tasks associated with ACL injury risk. Design: Cross-sectional study. Participants: Fifteen females (age = 22.67 +/- 2.58yrs, height = 1.65 +/- 0 .05m, mass = 65.28 +/- 10.36 kg) with a history of ACL reconstruction (time post surgery = 3.40 +/- 0 .74yrs) were recruited for this investigation. Main outcome measures: Kinesiophobia, measured via the Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia (TSK-11). Ki-nematics and muscle activation were measured during three functional tasks: the drop jump (DJ), single-limb hop (SLH), and single-limb landing (SLL). Results: For the DJ task, there was a strong negative correlation between kinesiophobia and knee flexion (r =-.592, p = .20) and between kinesiophobia and trunk flexion (r =-0.724, p = .002). For the SLH task, there was a strong positive correlation between kinesiophobia and hip flexion (r = 0.560, p = .03). Conclusions: These findings indicate that kinesiophobia is associated with movement alterations years after completion of ACL reconstruction and rehabilitation. (c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).		[Dudley, Robert I.; Gharibvand, Lida] Loma Linda Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Profess, Loma Linda, CA 92350 USA; [Dudley, Robert I.] Pepperdine Univ, Fac Sports Med, Malibu, CA 90265 USA; [Lohman, Everett B.] Loma Linda Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Loma Linda, CA 92350 USA; [Patterson, Christopher S.] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Azusa, CA 91702 USA; [Knox, Kyra G.] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Azusa, CA 91702 USA; [Dudley, Robert I.] 24951 Circle Dr,Suite 1605, Loma Linda, CA 92354 USA								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000821470400001	39	Article; Article		
J	Latypova, Endzhe; Matsuoka, Hirotaka								Temporal team switching after the elimination of the supported team at a knockout tournament								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	1			74	89		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2022-0001			JAN 17 2023	2023	Purpose While the tournament format is common within organized sports, little is known about the supporting behavior of tournament event fans. The defeat of the supported team and its' subsequent elimination could influence how fans associate themselves with the event. Hence, the present study aims to investigate the fans' responses to the favorite team's elimination at a knockout tournament focusing on whether they are willing to continue following the event and choose another team to support. Design/methodology/approach In this paper fans' temporal switching behavior was explored in relationships with fans' identification with geographic area, sport itself and teams. The audience watching the Japanese National High School Baseball Championship was targeted for the online survey in March 2020, resulting in the final sample of 502 (287 observations used for reliability and validity tests). Findings Independent sample t-tests and logistic regression were employed in the study. 80% of respondents intended to continue following the tournament, which was associated with a higher attachment to sports. Place attachment by itself was not associated with the intention to continue. Most of the respondents who chose a certain team to support after the favorite team's elimination have retained their pattern of choosing the team (63.9%). Interestingly, fans with higher place attachment not only choose to continue following the tournament after their prefectural team's elimination but were willing to support another team from the same region. Originality/value This is one of the first papers providing evidence of tournament fan behavior and temporal switching.		[Latypova, Endzhe] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Matsuoka, Hirotaka] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Matsuoka, Hirotaka] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000817227000001	31	Article; Article		
J	Leal Del Ojo, Pureza; Floria, Pablo; Walker, Cherie; Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo								Is acrobatic pyramid performance determined by the individual balance of the gymnasts?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	2			235	245		10.1080/14763141.2022.2092546			FEB 1 2023	2023	The influence of individual gymnasts' balance on final pyramid performance is unknown. The principal objective of this study was to evaluate associations between the balance capacity of base and top gymnasts (BG, BT) on the pyramid performance using different balance tasks. Forty acrobatic gymnasts were divided in two groups (20 BG, 20 TG) and performed three different static tests on a force platform: unipedal (open and closed eyes), and headstand. Centre of pressure (COP) measurements were obtained including length travelled in the anteroposterior and mediolateral axis, surface area and the mean speed. Pairs of gymnasts performed a pyramid which involved the BG standing upright while holding a TP in handstand with arms flexed at the elbow. Pyramid scores were obtained from judges to assess the performance. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to reduce the number of balance COP variables. Linear regression analysis was applied with pyramid performance and scores of PCA separated by role. TG's PCA 2 was a significant predictor of pyramid performance. Higher pyramid performance was associated with better headstand balance capacity in TG. The results suggest that measuring COP displacement during headstands could help coaches and gymnasts to assess the handstand pyramid performance.		[Leal Del Ojo, Pureza] San Isidoro Univ Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Floria, Pablo; Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Walker, Cherie] New South Wales Inst Sport, Sydney Olympic Pk, Australia; [Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000818810700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Kellison, Timothy; Cianfrone, Beth A.								Distinctions in environmental attitudes between soccer and American football fans								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	1			129	144		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2022-0023			JAN 17 2023	2023	Purpose In this study, the authors examine consumer attitudes toward a professional soccer club's proenvironmental initiatives and evaluate whether key themes are consistent with those found in previous research of fans in different sporting contexts. Design/methodology/approach The authors analyzed empirical material provided by 147 highly identified supporters of a Major League Soccer team. Using template analysis, the authors compared codes, categories and themes with those previously identified in a reference group of National Football League (NFL) fans. Findings Twenty-three preliminary codes, nine categories and four themes were established by the researchers. Three themes - Considering Environmental Action, Business Insights and Impacting the Fan Experience - were all consistent with the NFL reference group. A fourth theme, Public Visibility, focused on the possibility that the club's proenvironmental initiatives could provide a competitive advantage over rival cities and positively influence local programming and behaviors. Originality/value The results of this study support the notion that fan characteristics may differ across various demographic and structural contexts and fans' recognition that a club could leverage its community standing to promote proenvironmental action.		[Kellison, Timothy; Cianfrone, Beth A.] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Kellison, Timothy] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000814972700001	46	Article; Article		
J	MacDonald, Hayley, V; Colster, Emily C.; Mulholland, Anne M.; Holmes, Clifton J.; Bentley, Brett C.; Robinson, James B.; Wingo, Jonathan E.								Physical demands and physiological strain of American football referees while officiating								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	4			351	360		10.1080/00913847.2022.2090869			JUL 4 2023	2023	Objectives Certain occupations are associated with greater risk of triggering a sudden cardiac event because of high levels of physical exertion and extreme thermal environments in which they occur. The extent to which sports officials--particularly high school (HS) American football referees--experience these conditions is unknown. Forty-six male HS officials (72% White/Caucasian; age = 48 +/- 12 years, body mass index = 31.7 +/- 6.6 kg center dot m(-2)) were studied to quantify the physiological strain and physical demands of officiating. Methods Referee demographics (e.g., experience, habitual exercise), pre-game urine specific gravity (U-SG), thermal (peak core temperature [T-core]) and cardiovascular (average heart rate [HR]) strain, kinematic activity (e.g., total distance, speed, mechanical intensity), and environmental conditions were measured during 10 regular season varsity HS football games (approximate to 2.5 h each) in the Southeastern United States (average wet bulb globe temperature and relative humidity: 18.9 +/- 6.0 degrees C and 78.2% +/- 12.1%). Analyses included descriptive statistics, bivariate correlations, and linear regression. Results Referees covered 5.2 +/- 1.2 km per game, eliciting average HR and peak T-core of 71.5% +/- 8.0% HRmax and 38.3 +/- 0.5 degrees C, respectively; 38% began games dehydrated (U-SG = 1.026 +/- 0.004). Multiple regression analyses revealed that obesity (beta = 0.34), not participating in regular exercise (beta = -0.36), and officiating at lower mechanical intensity (beta = -0.33) predicted greater cardiovascular strain (all p <= 0.03). White/Caucasian race/ethnicity (beta = 0.59), younger age (beta = -0.46), and obesity (beta = 0.28) predicted greater thermal strain (all p <= 0.01). Conclusion HS football referees experienced elevated levels of physiological strain while officiating, with individual factors modulating the magnitude of strain. Strategies aimed at reducing obesity, increasing exercise participation, and improving cardiovascular health should be emphasized to mitigate strain and prevent cardiac events.		[MacDonald, Hayley, V; Colster, Emily C.; Mulholland, Anne M.; Holmes, Clifton J.; Wingo, Jonathan E.] Univ Alabama, Dept Kinesiol, 1006 Wade Hall,Box 870312, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487 USA; [Holmes, Clifton J.] Washington Univ, Sch Med, Program Phys Therapy, St Louis, MO USA; [Bentley, Brett C.; Robinson, James B.] Univ Alabama, Dept Family Internal & Rural Med, Tuscaloosa, AL USA; [MacDonald, Hayley, V] Univ Alabama, Dept Kinesiol, 1006 Wade Hall,Box 870312, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000815481100001	44	Article; Article		
J	Busuttil, Nicholas A.; Connolly, Molly; Roberts, Alexandra H.; Reid, Machar; Dascombe, Ben J.; Middleton, Kane J.								Grip position affects upper limb kinematic chain during tennis double-handed backhand topspin strokes: considerations for transitioning tennis grip position technique								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				24	2			164	183		10.1080/14763141.2022.2090425			FEB 1 2025	2025	The purpose of this study was to compare the upper limb kinematic chain of tennis players using either an eastern or continental non-dominant grip position during the forward swing of the double-handed backhand stroke. Sixteen right-handed tennis players performed backhands using two non-dominant grip positions (eastern and continental), aiming for two cross-court zones (deep and short). Trajectory data were captured using sixty reflective markers attached to the upper limb and racket using a 12-camera Vicon motion capture system (250 Hz). Peak angular velocity was significantly greater for multiple joint rotations at the dominant shoulder and entire non-dominant limb in the eastern grip. Subsequently, greater peak racket head angular velocity and post-impact ball speed were generated by the eastern grip, while shot accuracy was similar between grip types. There was delayed dominant shoulder peak adduction angular velocity for the continental grip, possibly due to a lack of skill familiarity causing changes in coordinative patterns. Collectively, the non-dominant grip position appears to influence proximal and distal upper limb movement. Future research should explore upper limb segment coordination comparing preferred and non-preferred double-handed backhand techniques and complete inter-disciplinary investigations to understand what grip positions are most effective for individuals to learn double-handed backhands.		[Busuttil, Nicholas A.; Roberts, Alexandra H.; Middleton, Kane J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Australia; [Connolly, Molly; Reid, Machar] Tennis Australia, Game Insight Grp, Melbourne, Australia; [Connolly, Molly] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Australia; [Dascombe, Ben J.] Univ Newcastle, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Appl Sport Sci & Exercise Testing Lab, Ourimbah, Australia; [Middleton, Kane J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Australia								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000814581600001	49	Article; Article		
J	Muchaxo, Rafael E. A.; de Groot, Sonja; Kouwijzer, Ingrid; van der Woude, Lucas H., V; Nooijen, Carla F. J.; Janssen, Thomas W. J.								Association between upper-limb isometric strength and handcycling performance in elite athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2071760				2022	This study investigated the association among isometric upper-limb strength of handcyclists and sport-specific performance outcomes. At two international events, 62 athletes were tested on upper-limb strength, measured with an isometric-strength setup and with Manual Muscle Test (MMT). Horizontal force (F-z), effectiveness, rate of development, variability, and asymmetries were calculated for upper-limb pull and push. Performance measures were mean (POmean) and peak (POpeak) 20-s sprint power output and average time-trial velocity (TTvelocity). Regression models were conducted to investigate which pull and push strength variables associated strongest with performance measures. Additional regression analyses were conducted with an MMT sum score as predictor. Push and pull F-z showed the strongest associations with all outcomes. Combined push and pull F-z explained (p < .001) 80-81% of variance of POmean and POpeak. For TTvelocity, only push F-z was included in the model explaining 29% of the variance (p < .001). MMT models revealed weaker associations with sprint PO (R-2 = .38-.40, p < .001) and TTvelocity (R-2 = .18, p = 0.001). The findings confirmed the relevance of upper-limb strength on handcycling performance and the significance of ratio-scaled strength measures. Isometric strength outcomes are adequate sport-specific indicators of impairment in handcycling classification, but future research should corroborate this notion and its potential to discriminate between sports classes.		[Muchaxo, Rafael E. A.; de Groot, Sonja; Janssen, Thomas W. J.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Human Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Muchaxo, Rafael E. A.; de Groot, Sonja; Kouwijzer, Ingrid; Janssen, Thomas W. J.] Reade, Amsterdam Rehabil Res Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [de Groot, Sonja; Janssen, Thomas W. J.] Amsterdam Inst Sport Sci, Ctr Adapted Sports Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kouwijzer, Ingrid] Heliomare Rehabil Ctr, Res & Dev, Wijkaan Zee, Netherlands; [Kouwijzer, Ingrid; van der Woude, Lucas H., V] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [van der Woude, Lucas H., V] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Rehabil, Groningen, Netherlands; [van der Woude, Lucas H., V] Loughborough Univ, Peter Harrison Ctr Disabil Sport, gSch Sports Exercise & Hlth, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Nooijen, Carla F. J.] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci GIH, Stockholm, Sweden; [Muchaxo, Rafael E. A.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Human Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000813642300001	36	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sah, Volkan; Kaplan, Seyhmus; Ozkan, Sezai; Adanas, Cihan; Toprak, Murat								Comparison between radial and focused types of extracorporeal shock-wave therapy in plantar calcaneal spur: A randomized sham-controlled trial								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	1			82	87		10.1080/00913847.2022.2091413			JAN 2 2023	2023	Objectives Both radial and focused types of extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) have been used in patients with plantar calcaneal spur (PCS). However, no study has yet addressed the comparative effects of these treatments on the condition. Considering radial and focused waves are different from each other, their effectiveness may also be different in clinical practice. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of radial and focused types of ESWT on PCS. Methods Ninety-nine patients with plantar calcaneal spur were randomised into three groups according to ESWT types: focused, radial, and sham. ESWT was applied as three sessions, with 2-4 days intervals (excluding weekends). All patients were evaluated at baseline (week 0) and weeks 1, 5, and 13. The Foot Function Index (FFI) scores were used as outcome measures. Results Compared with baseline (week 0), at the end of treatment (week 1) and at the follow-up periods (weeks 5, and 13) the FFI scores were significantly reduced in both focused and radial ESWT groups (for all, p < 0.001). When considering the change in data from baseline to follow-up periods (weeks 5, and 13), both focused and radial ESWT groups were significantly superior to the sham group in the all outcome measures (for all, p < 0.05). Importantly, the radial group was significantly superior to focused group based on the changes in the FFI scores (for all, p < 0.05). Conclusion Both focused ESWT and radial ESWT are effective in plantar calcaneal spur. When considering the degree and continuity of the positive effects, radial ESWT is superior to focused ESWT in plantar calcaneal spur.		[Sah, Volkan; Kaplan, Seyhmus] Yuzuncu Yil Univ Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Van, Turkey; [Ozkan, Sezai; Adanas, Cihan] Yuzuncu Yil Univ Hosp, Dept Orthoped & Traumatol, Van, Turkey; [Toprak, Murat] Yuzuncu Yil Univ Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Van, Turkey; [Sah, Volkan] Yuzuncu Yil Univ Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Van, Turkey								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000814118600001	26	Article; Article		
J	Saemi, Esmaeel; Amo-Aghaei, Elham; Moteshareie, Ebrahim; Yamada, Masahiro								An external focusing strategy was beneficial in experienced children but not in novices: The effect of external focus, internal focus, and holistic attention strategies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1067	1073	17479541221104158	10.1177/17479541221104158			AUG 2023	2023	External focus (attention directed to an intended effect) has been shown to improve motor performance compared to internal focus (attention directed to body movements). Recently, holistic attention (attention directed to the overall feeling) has been discussed as an effective alternative. We hypothesized that a less specific cue (e.g. holistic attention) may be more effective than an external focus in experienced individuals. Therefore, the present study examined the effect of external focus, internal focus, and holistic attention on 14 experienced children-athletes (M-age, 14.35 +/- 1.98 years; M-height, 171.28 +/- 9.53 cm; M-weight, 58.28 +/- 10.28 kg) and 14 novice children (M-age, 14.21 +/- 1.92 years; M-height, 170.92 +/- 12.40 cm; M-weight, 62.14 +/- 15.62 kg). Participants completed a 16-meter front crawl swimming task with assigned instructions for three trials per condition. The results showed main effects of skill level (p < 0.001), condition (p = 0.006), and the skill level/condition interaction (p = 0.003). Post hoc tests revealed that external focus was superior to internal focus (p < 0.001), with no difference between holistic attention and internal focus (p = 0.158) or holistic attention and external focus (p = 0.05) in the experienced athletes, while none of the conditions were different in novices. The benefits of attentional focus may be influenced by the level of experience.		[Saemi, Esmaeel] Shahid Chamran Univ Ahvaz, Dept Motor Behav & Sport Psychol, Ahvaz, Iran; [Yamada, Masahiro] Moss Rehabil Res Inst, Neuroplast & Motor Behav Lab, Elkins Pk, PA 19027 USA; [Amo-Aghaei, Elham] Islamic Azad Univ Shoshtar, Dept Sport Sci, Shoshtar, Iran; [Moteshareie, Ebrahim] Shahid Beheshti Univ, Fac Sport Sci & Hlth, Tehran, Iran; [Yamada, Masahiro] Moss Rehabil Res Inst, Neuroplast & Motor Behav Lab, Elkins Pk, PA 19027 USA								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000814279100001	52	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Mitchell; Russell, Alyce; Turner, Kate; Beranek, Philipp; Joyce, Christopher; McIntyre, Fleur; Cruickshank, Travis								The association between junior tennis players' physical and cognitive attributes and groundstroke performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1256	1265	17479541221106824	10.1177/17479541221106824			AUG 2023	2023	Improving groundstroke velocity and accuracy is critical for tennis success. However, there is limited research available on the physical and cognitive attributes required for groundstroke performance. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate the physical and cognitive characteristics and their association with groundstroke performance in junior tennis players. Thirty-four competitive junior tennis players, aged 12.59 +/- 2.44 years, participated in this cross-sectional study. Cognitive tests assessing processing speed, complex attention, cognitive flexibility and problem-solving capacity and physical tests assessing flexibility, speed, agility, power, strength and anaerobic and aerobic capacity were performed. Tennis groundstroke performance was evaluated using a novel tennis groundstroke assessment. Tennis groundstroke performance was associated (p < 0.05) with the number of hours a participant practices per week, their ranking, lower and upper body power, tennis agility test (decision and total time), linear speed, upper body strength and aerobic capacity. Specifically, an estimated 83.76% of the groundstroke velocity accuracy index variability was explained by grip strength in the dominant hand and ranking. An estimated 79.63% of the groundstroke velocity accuracy error index variability was explained by the number of hours a participant practices per week and their ranking. Our study showed an association between tennis groundstroke performance and physical but not cognitive outcomes in junior tennis players. Specific attention should be dedicated to developing the upper body strength of junior tennis players for improved groundstroke velocity and accuracy. This knowledge can assist tennis coaches in planning effective training sessions.		[Turner, Mitchell; Russell, Alyce; Turner, Kate; Beranek, Philipp; Cruickshank, Travis] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Perth, WA 6027, Australia; [Russell, Alyce; Cruickshank, Travis] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Precis Hlth, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Joyce, Christopher; McIntyre, Fleur] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Cruickshank, Travis] Perron Inst Neurol & Translat Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Beranek, Philipp] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Perth, WA 6027, Australia								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000814278400001	55	Article; Article		
J	Ab Rashid, Amir Mustakim; Ramlee, Muhammad Hanif; Gan, Hong Seng; Kadir, Mohammed Rafiq Abdul								Effects of badminton insole design on stress distribution, displacement and bone rotation of ankle joint during single-leg landing: a finite element analysis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2086168				2022	Previous research has reported that up to 92% of injuries amongst badminton players consist of lower limb, whereby 35% of foot fractures occurred at the metatarsal bone. In sports, insoles are widely used to increase athletes' performance and prevent many injuries. However, there is still a lack of badminton insole analysis and improvements. Therefore, this study aimed to biomechanically analyse three different insole designs. A validated and converged three-dimensional (3D) finite element model of ankle-foot complex was developed, which consisted of the skin, talus, calcaneus, navicular, three cuneiform, cuboid, five metatarsals and five phalanges. Three existing insoles from the market, (1) Yonex Active Pro Truactive, (2) Victor VT-XD 8 and (3) Li-Ning L6200LA, were scanned using a 3D scanner. For the analysis, single-leg landing was simulated. On the superior surface of the skin, 2.57 times of the bodyweight was axially applied, and the inferior surface of the outsole was fixed. The results showed that Insole 3 was the most optimum design to reduce peak stress on the metatarsals (3.807 MPa). In conclusion, the optimum design of Insole 3, based on the finite element analysis, could be a justification of athletes' choices to prevent injury and other complications.		[Ab Rashid, Amir Mustakim; Ramlee, Muhammad Hanif] Univ Teknol Malaysia, Med Devices & Technol Ctr MEDiTEC, Inst Human Ctr Engn iHumEn, Johor Baharu, Malaysia; [Ab Rashid, Amir Mustakim; Ramlee, Muhammad Hanif; Kadir, Mohammed Rafiq Abdul] Univ Teknol Malaysia, Fac Engn, Sch Biomed Engn & Hlth Sci, Johor Baharu, Malaysia; [Gan, Hong Seng] Univ Malaysia Kelantan, Dept Data Sci, UMK City Campus, Pengkalan Chepa 16100, Kelantan, Malaysia; [Kadir, Mohammed Rafiq Abdul] Univ Teknol Malaysia, Sports Innovat & Technol Ctr SITC, Inst Human Ctr Engn iHumEn, Johor Baharu, Malaysia; [Ramlee, Muhammad Hanif] Univ Teknol Malaysia, Med Devices & Technol Ctr MEDiTEC, Inst Human Ctr Engn iHumEn, Johor Baharu, Malaysia; [Ramlee, Muhammad Hanif] Univ Teknol Malaysia, Fac Engn, Sch Biomed Engn & Hlth Sci, Johor Baharu, Malaysia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000813704200001	92	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Millour, Geoffrey; Plourde-Couture, Felix; Domingue, Frederic								Cycling modelling under uncontrolled outdoor conditions using a wearable sensor and different meteorological measurement methods								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1102	1112	17479541221106386	10.1177/17479541221106386			AUG 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to model the cycling displacement under uncontrolled outdoor conditions with a wearable sensor and different meteorological measurement methods. One participant completed eight courses of a distance of 9.2 +/- 2.4 km with varied profiles and directions. Data were recorded every second with a power meter, a GPS and a speed sensor. The aerodynamic drag coefficient, measured by a Notio wearable sensor, and the meteorological variables provided by the Notio, a Kestrel fixed meteorological station and the OpenWeather website were integrated into the Martin mathematical model to calculate the theoretical power output. The power calculated by the model on the basis of data from Notio, Kestrel and OpenWeather were, respectively, 1 +/- 4 W higher, 7 +/- 15 W lower and 67 +/- 111 W higher than the power measured by the sensor. The overall RMSE and R-2, including 7325 data points, were 12.8 W and 0.77 (p < 0.001), respectively, between the power output measured by the sensor and the power output modelled with the data from Notio. The use of the model with the wearable sensor was more precise mainly due to the relative wind measures at all points of the course. Therefore, the Notio can be useful for coaches to follow the evolution of the C(d)A of athletes on the field. Moreover, the model has the potential to predict the time of a cyclist just before a time trial in order to optimise his pacing strategy taking into account actual weather conditions.		[Millour, Geoffrey; Plourde-Couture, Felix; Domingue, Frederic] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Lab Technol & Innovat Performance Sport, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada; [Millour, Geoffrey] Univ Quebec Trois Rivieres, Lab Technol & Innovat Performance Sport, Trois Rivieres, PQ, Canada								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000813729700001	27	Article; Article		
J	Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus J.; Andersen, Jordan T.; Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco; Lopez-Contreras, Gracia; Morouco, Pedro G.; Arellano, Raul								Quantification of swimmers' ability to apply force in the water: the potential role of two new variables during tethered swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2089220				2022	This study aimed 1) to examine variables that may quantify the ability to apply force in the water and 2) to test their relationship with free swimming performance. Sixteen regional-level swimmers participated in this study. Average (F-avg) and maximum (F-max) forces were measured for 30 s arm stroke tethered swimming in a flume at zero and 1.389 m/s water flow speeds. The maximum and average force's relative changes (Delta F-max and Delta F-avg, respectively) were calculated between tethered swimming at zero and 1.389 m/s water flow speeds. Free swimming speeds were obtained from 25, 50, and 100 m front crawl trials, and were correlated with Delta F-max and Delta F-avg. A negative correlation was found between Delta F-max and 25, 50 and 100 m speeds (r = -0.84, r = -0.74, r = -0.55; p < 0.05, respectively) and Delta F-avg correlated negatively with 25 and 50 m speeds (r = -0.63, r = -0.54; p < 0.05, respectively), but it did not correlate with 100 m swimming speed. The relative change in force could be used to quantify the ability to apply force in the water. This could aid coaches to understand if changes in swimmers' ability to apply force in the water contribute to improvements in performance.		[Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus J.; Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco; Lopez-Contreras, Gracia; Arellano, Raul] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Aquat Lab, Granada, Spain; [Andersen, Jordan T.] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Andersen, Jordan T.] Macquarie Univ, Biomech Phys Performance & Exercise BioPPEx Res G, N Ryde, NSW 2109, Australia; [Andersen, Jordan T.] Macquarie Univ, Fac Med Hlth & Human Sci, N Ryde, NSW 2109, Australia; [Morouco, Pedro G.] Polytech Leiria, ESECS, Leiria, Portugal; [Morouco, Pedro G.] Polytech Leiria, Ctr Innovat Care & Hlth Technol, ciTechCare, Leiria, Portugal; [Arellano, Raul] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Aquat Lab, Granada, Spain								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000812658800001	39	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Trebicky, Vit; Rudolf, Jan; Pavelka, Radim								The effect of warm-up on peak impact force of the rear hand strike in full-contact combat sports								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2088400				2022	Warming up is a generally accepted practice that leads to improved performance and reduces the risk of injury in a wide range of sports. However, the evidence about the influence of warm-up in combat sports is limited and, specifically, little is known about the impact which delays between a warm-up and the start of a match may have on fighters' performance. This study investigates the influence of warm-up and cool-down on one of significant performance predictors in full-contact combat sports, the peak force of a rear hand strike, in a sample of 31 athletes.Peak impact force was measured before, after, and at two time points after a standardized warm-up routine; skin temperature and heart rate were also monitored. Warm-up and cool-down periods were substantial predictors of body temperature and heart rate, but we observed no effect of the warm-up routine on strike impact force. Strike impact force remained unaffected even after the cool-down intervals.Strike impact force does not seem to respond to physiological changes elicited by a warm-up. This measure is partly related only to fighters' physical characteristics, namely the body weight. Athletes and trainers could thus concentrate on other aspects of successful performance during warm-up routines.		[Trebicky, Vit; Rudolf, Jan; Pavelka, Radim] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Trebicky, Vit] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000812056000001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hwang, Yongjin; Watanabe, Nicholas Masafumi; Nagel, Mark								Effects of in-game brand congruity on esports consumers' implicit and explicit memory								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	1			108	128		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2022-0085			JAN 17 2023	2023	Purpose - This study aims to examine the impacts of brand congruity of in-game brand placement on esports consumers' implicit and explicit memory. Design/methodology/approach - A 2 x 2 x 2 experimental design (N = 224) was used with an automobile racing game, NASCAR Heat 5. A series of statistical analyses, including MANOVA and logistic regressions, was conducted to test the proposed hypotheses. Findings - The results revealed that ads on virtual billboards in the video game primed participants to create an implicit memory. Also, incongruent brands that were not very familiar to gamers provided greater impact than congruent brands. Originality/value - This research is the first to test both implicit and explicit memory and provide practical evidence for the possibility of implicit memory building in the esports context. In addition, the current study also examined the impact of congruity to answer the previously inconsistent results.		[Hwang, Yongjin; Watanabe, Nicholas Masafumi; Nagel, Mark] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Hwang, Yongjin] Univ South Carolina, Dept Sport & Entertainment Management, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000810567300001	58	Article; Article		
J	Lu, Wan Chen; Lin, Shin-Huei; Cheng, Chih-Fu; Wu, Ming-Han								When coaching is a calling: A moderated mediating model among school sports coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			964	973	17479541221103778	10.1177/17479541221103778			OCT 2022	2022	Introduction Drawing on the Job Demands-Resources Model, the present study examined the relationships among the job control, calling, work engagement, and job performance of sports coaches. Methods With a cross-sectional study design, we enrolled 278 school sports coaches as participants and adopted questionnaires to collect data. Self-reported data on demographics, job control, calling, work engagement, and job performance were collected from participants. We posted recruitment posters at the sports seminars/workshops for coaches and distributed an informed consent form and a questionnaire to coaches who were willing to participate in our study. Participants received an NT$100 gift voucher after they had filled out the questionnaire. Descriptive analyses (e.g., means, standard deviations, and correlations among focal variables, etc.), reliability and validity analysis, and a series of hierarchical regression analyses to test the hypotheses were adopted in this study. Results Job control is positively associated with job performance through work engagement. Further, the moderated mediation model demonstrated that job control has a stronger positive correlation with work engagement and job performance, especially when sports coaches possess higher levels of calling. Conclusion The current findings suggest that job control is a critical antecedent of job performance through work engagement and that a higher level of calling strengthens the relationship. We suggest that crafting an autonomy-supportive working environment will help empower sports coaches to set goals and become involved, which in turn supports sports coaches in achieving their goals and produces better individual/team performance.		[Lu, Wan Chen] Natl Taiwan Univ, Dept Athlet, Master Program Sport Facil Management & Hlth Prom, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lin, Shin-Huei] Natl Pingtung Univ, Dept Leisure Management, 51 Minsheng E Rd, Pingtung 90004, Pingtung County, Taiwan; [Cheng, Chih-Fu] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wu, Ming-Han] Natl Taiwan Univ, Dept Athlet, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lin, Shin-Huei] Natl Pingtung Univ, Dept Leisure Management, 51 Minsheng E Rd, Pingtung 90004, Pingtung County, Taiwan								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000813085600001	68	Article; Article		
J	Abran, Guillaume; Delvaux, Francois; Schwartz, Cedric; Martens, Geraldine; Hody, Stephanie; Dardenne, Nadia; Bruyere, Oliver; Bornheim, Stephen; Croisier, Jean-Louis								Current perception and practice of athletics coaches about the modification of footstrike pattern in endurance runners: A survey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1345	1353	17479541221108089	10.1177/17479541221108089			DEC 2022	2022	Purpose To date, the relationship between footstrike pattern and performance, as well as with injury incidence in endurance running remains unclear. For these reasons, it is currently not recommended to modify footstrike pattern in an uninjured long-distance runner. The purpose of this study was to analyse whether athletic coaches apply these current scientific recommendations with their endurance runners on the field. Methods A Delphi method study was used to develop an online survey that was administered to French-speaking athletic coaches in Belgium. The survey comprised three sections: 1) coaches' profile, 2) coaches' perception of footstrike patterns, 3) practices pertaining to footstrike patterns. Results One hundred and fourteen respondents completed the entire questionnaire. Ninety-six (84%) athletic coaches reported modifying the footstrike pattern of their endurance runners. They reported that they modify their runners' rearfoot and forefoot strike more often than a midfoot strike (P < 0.0001) to prevent injury (83%) and to improve performance (66%). According to them, midfoot strike is considered as the best landing pattern for endurance performance (47%) and injury prevention (36%) whereas rearfoot strike is considered as the worst (respectively, 50% and 52%). Summary and conclusion This study highlights the disparities between scientific recommendations and athletic coaches' field practices for modifying footstrike patterns in endurance runners. Contrary to current scientific literature recommendations, a large proportion of coaches modify the natural footstrike pattern of their endurance runners towards a midfoot strike pattern to improve performance and prevent injury.		[Abran, Guillaume; Schwartz, Cedric; Croisier, Jean-Louis] Lab Human Mot Anal, Liege, Belgium; [Delvaux, Francois; Martens, Geraldine; Hody, Stephanie; Bruyere, Oliver; Bornheim, Stephen; Croisier, Jean-Louis] Univ Liege, Dept Motr Sci, Liege, Belgium; [Dardenne, Nadia] Univ Liege, Univ & Hosp Biostat Ctr B STAT, Liege, Belgium; [Bruyere, Oliver] Univ Liege, WHO Collaborating Ctr Publ Hlth Aspects Musculosk, Div Publ Hlth Epidemiol & Hlth Econ, Liege, Belgium; [Abran, Guillaume] Lab Human Mot Anal, Liege, Belgium								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000813088100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Andressa; Pinto Pinheiro, Larissa Santos; Silva, Samuel; Andrade, Henrique; Pereira, Andre Gustavo; da Silva, Flavia Rodrigues; Guerreiro, Renato; Barreto, Bruna; Resende, Renan; de Mello, Marco Tulio								Sleep in Paralympic athletes and its relationship with injuries and illnesses								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				56				24	31		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.06.001			JUL 2022	2022	Objectives: To evaluate sleep characteristics and investigate the relationship of sleep with injuries and illnesses in Paralympic athletes. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Sports Training Center. Participants: 20 Paralympic athletes of athletics, swimming, and powerlifting. Outcomes: Injury and illnesses were recorded during the sports season through the Oslo Sports Trauma Research Center questionnaire (OSTRC-BR). Sleep-wake pattern was monitored for 2 weeks using actigraphy. Chronotype, sleep quality, sleep behavior, and sleep complaints were cross-sectionally collected. Results: Poor sleep quality and poor sleep behavior were highly prevalent. The mean total sleep time was 6.57 ?? 49.91. Duration of naps (r= -0.46; p=0.04) was associated with occurrence of health problems; frequency of insomnia (r= 0.51; p= 0.02), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index score (r= 0.45; p=0.04), and frequency of awakenings at night (r= 0.58; p= 0.01) were associated with severity of health problems; frequency of movements during sleep was associated with OSTRC-BR cumulative score (r= 0.58; p=0.0 0); and frequency of nightmares was associated with OSTRC mean score. Conclusions: Paralympic athletes tend to report poor sleep quality, have poor sleep behavior and sleep less than the recommended. Insomnia symptoms, awakenings at night, movements during sleep and poor sleep quality were associated with the occurrence and/or severity of health problems. ?? 2022 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Silva, Andressa; Pinto Pinheiro, Larissa Santos; Silva, Samuel; Andrade, Henrique; Pereira, Andre Gustavo; da Silva, Flavia Rodrigues; Guerreiro, Renato; Barreto, Bruna; Resende, Renan; de Mello, Marco Tulio] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Training Ctr, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Silva, Andressa; Andrade, Henrique; Pereira, Andre Gustavo; Guerreiro, Renato; Barreto, Bruna; de Mello, Marco Tulio] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Pinto Pinheiro, Larissa Santos; Silva, Samuel; Resende, Renan] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Dept Phys Therapy, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Silva, Andressa] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Av Antonio Carlos 6627, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000829903700004	49	Article; Article		
J	Herold, David M.; Harrison, C. Keith; Bukstein, Scott J.								Revisiting organizational identity and social responsibility in professional football clubs: the case of Bayern Munich and the Qatar sponsorship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				24	1			56	73		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2022-0058			JAN 17 2023	2023	Purpose A perceived misalignment between socially responsible fans and football club management has recently led to a major crisis during the annual meeting in 2021 of Bayern Munich, one of the largest professional football teams in Europe. In an unprecedented scenario, Bayern Munich fans demanded that management drop one of its largest sponsors due to alleged violation of human rights. The goal of this paper is to examine this particular phenomenon, as it not only demonstrates a discrepancy between the social organizational identity and its image, but more importantly, how it impacts legitimation strategies and the fans' loyalty attitudes towards the club. Design/methodology/approach Using the underlying concepts of legitimacy and loyalty, this conceptual model paper proposes two frameworks for social responsibility in professional football clubs: (1) analyzing how the (mis-)alignment between organizational identity and image impacts fan loyalty and (2) depicting four different types of social responsibility strategies to align organizational identity and image. Findings The authors identify various theoretical concepts that influence organizational identity and image in and for social responsibility and combine the two critical concepts of legitimacy and loyalty to categorize the social responsibility strategies for professional football clubs. Originality/value Both frameworks advance the understanding of the decision-making behind social responsibility strategies and also synthesize the current literature to offer conceptual clarity regarding the varied implications and outcomes linked to the misalignment between organizational identity and image.		[Herold, David M.] Vienna Univ Econ & Business, Vienna, Austria; [Herold, David M.] Griffith Univ, Dept Business Strategy & Innovat, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Harrison, C. Keith; Bukstein, Scott J.] Univ Cent Florida, DeVos Sport Business Management, Orlando, FL USA; [Herold, David M.] Vienna Univ Econ & Business, Vienna, Austria; [Herold, David M.] Griffith Univ, Dept Business Strategy & Innovat, Brisbane, Qld, Australia								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000807696500001	90	Article; Article		
J	Han, Seunguk; Lee, Hyunwook; Hopkins, Jon Tyson								Acute effects of external visual feedback using cross-line laser on landing neuromechanics and postural control in chronic ankle instability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2085620				2022	Although neuromuscular training (NMT) programmes positively enhance clinical deficits in chronic ankle instability (CAI) patients, the effectiveness of NMTs in restoring movement patterns during jump landing is still questionable. Before developing new prolonged motor-learning interventions, it is important to determine the immediate effects of intervention on movement patterns during jump-landing in patients with CAI. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine whether real-time external feedback using a crossline laser device changes the movement patterns during jump-landing and balance tasks in patients with CAI. Eighteen patients with CAI completed three successful single-leg jump-landing tasks and single-leg balance tasks under the conditions of with and without external feedback. Lower-extremity joint angles, moments, and EMG activation of six muscles were collected during the single leg jump-landing task and centre of pressure data were collected during the single-leg balance test. Real-time external feedback allowed to change neuromechanical characteristics in the entire lower-extremity (i.e., ankle, knee, and hip joints) during jump-landing. However, there were no differences in static postural control between the two conditions. Clinicians should carefully consider incorporating a cost-effective laser device into an augmented NMT programme of longer duration to improve movement patterns during functional tasks in patients with CAI.		[Han, Seunguk; Lee, Hyunwook; Hopkins, Jon Tyson] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, ATC 106 SFH, Provo, UT 84604 USA; [Lee, Hyunwook] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, ATC 106 SFH, Provo, UT 84604 USA								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000808489400001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Kinoshita, Hiroshi								Finger friction with leather and seam of new and used softballs with and without rosin powder								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2085163				2022	The purpose of this study was to investigate the friction of finger against polyurethane-coated leather and seam surfaces of new and used softballs. The effects of seam alignment (across and along the seam) and chalk/rosin powder application were also investigated. The coefficient of static friction (COF) was evaluated on 14 college female softball players who rubbed the pad of their index finger on a test surface fixed on a biaxial force plate. The mean COF of the new leather was 1.04, and those of the seam were 1.16 for the across condition, and 1.07 for the along condition. The leather-seam difference in COF was significant. The used ball's leather and seam had lower COF than those of the new ball. The seam alignment difference did not reach the level of significance. For both new and used balls, the application of chalk/rosin powder to the finger reduced COF, and the reduction was greater on the leather than on the seam. It was concluded that the outer cover of softballs, and especially the seam portions, is equipped with reasonably high friction under natural finger condition. The friction is reduced in used balls and with the use of chalk/rosin powder.		[Kinoshita, Hiroshi] Osaka Aoyama Univ, Common Educ Ctr, 2-11-2 Niina, Osaka 5628580, Japan; [Kinoshita, Hiroshi] Osaka Aoyama Univ, Common Educ Ctr, 2-11-2 Niina, Osaka 5628580, Japan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000808487000001	22	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Esteves, Jose; Dinis, Ricardo; Fernandes, Orlando; Castro, Maria Antonio; Oliveira, Raul; Pezarat-Correia, Pedro								Differences in postural control between healthy and subjects with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				56				8	14		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.014			JUL 2022	2022	Introduction: Chronic ankle instability (CAI) is characterized by the occurrence of repetitive inversion mechanism of the ankle, resulting in numerous ankle sprains. CAI occurs in approximately 70% of patients with a history of a lateral ankle sprain. Many causes of functional ankle instability have been postulated and include deficits in proprioception, impaired neuromuscular -firing patterns, disturbed balance and postural control. Objective: The purpose of this study was to compare postural control behaviour in subjects with chronic ankle instability and healthy subjects, using the traditional linear and nonlinear variables for the centre of pressure (CoP) displacement, during one-leg stance on stable and unstable surfaces. Methods: 16 CAI subjects and 20 healthy subjects were evaluated with the single leg stance on a stable surface and an unstable surface, for 60 s with a force plate. The traditional linear variables like CoP displacement, CoP amplitude and CoP velocity were calculated. Variability of CoP displacement was also submitted to nonlinear analysis and the approximated entropy, sample entropy, correlation dimension and Lyapunov exponent were calculated. Results: On the stable surface, no differences between groups for all the traditional variables were found but the correlation dimension of CoP mediolateral displacement had lower values on the CAI group with statistical significance (p < 0.05). On the unstable surface, no differences were found neither with linear variable neither with variability nonlinear analysis. Conclusion: Correlated dimension of CoP displacement during one-leg stance on a stable surface was the only variable that show significant differences between the two groups. The lower values of this variable in the CAI subjects may implicate a balance control system with more difficulties to adapt to the environment and the task demands. More studies are needed to better understand CAI subjects balance control. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Esteves, Jose] Escola Super Saude Alcoitao, Lisbon, Portugal; [Esteves, Jose; Dinis, Ricardo; Oliveira, Raul; Pezarat-Correia, Pedro] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Neuromuscular Res Lab, Lisbon, Portugal; [Fernandes, Orlando] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Evora, Portugal; [Castro, Maria Antonio] Escola Super Sat 1De Leiria, Leiria, Portugal; [Oliveira, Raul; Pezarat-Correia, Pedro] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Castro, Maria Antonio] Univ Coimbra, CEMMPRE, Coimbra, Portugal; [Esteves, Jose] Escola Super Saude Alcoitao, Rua Conde Barao, P-2649506 Alcabideche, Portugal								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000829903700002	51	Article; Article		
J	Olivares-Jabalera, Jesus; Filter-Ruger, Alberto; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Ortega-Dominguez, Jose; Sanchez-Martinez, Ruben R.; Hermoso, Victor M. Soto; Requena, Bernardo								Is there association between cutting and jump-landing movement quality in semi-professional football players? Implications for ACL injury risk screening								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				56				15	23		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.015			JUL 2022	2022	Objectives: To investigate the relationship between the Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) and Cutting Movement Assessment Score (CMAS) to evaluate movement quality, their intra-(INTRAob) and inter-observer (INTERob) reliability, and the comparison between the two drop vertical jump (DVJ) landings (1st and 2nd). Design: Cross-sectional. Participants: 42 male semi-professional soccer players performed three trials of DVJ and 70 degrees change of direction with a ball located as an external focus. Main outcome measures: Movement quality was evaluated through 2D video footage using the CMAS and LESS, screened by two observers. Relational, comparative and reliability analyses were conducted. Results: Both tools showed moderate to substantial (ICC = 0.58-0.71), and substantial to almost perfect (ICC = 0.68-0.87) INTRAob and INTERob reliability, respectively. No significant associations were found among CMAS, LESS 1st and 2nd for either scores or risk profiles (r = -0.158-0.202, p > 0.05). LESS 2nd was moderately higher (ES = 0.80-0.83, p = 0.002-0.0 07) than 1st scores. Conclusions: CMAS and LESS are reliable tools to evaluate movement quality, although evaluations should be preferably performed by the same observer; ACL injury risk profile's is task-dependent; both landings of the DVJ should be assessed as they represent different biomechanical and neuromuscular control deficits. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Olivares-Jabalera, Jesus; Sanchez-Martinez, Ruben R.; Hermoso, Victor M. Soto; Requena, Bernardo] Univ Granada, Sport & Hlth Univ Res Inst iMUDS, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada 18071, Spain; [Olivares-Jabalera, Jesus; Filter-Ruger, Alberto; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Requena, Bernardo] FSI Sport Res Lab, Granada, Spain; [Dos'Santos, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med Res Ctr, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, All St Bldg,Manchester Campus John Dalton Bldg, Manchester M15 6BH, Lancs, England; [Ortega-Dominguez, Jose] Club Deport Don Benito, Badajoz, Spain; [Hermoso, Victor M. Soto] Univ Granada, iMUDS, C Menendez Pelayo 32, Granada 18016, Spain								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000829903700003	50	Article; Article		
J	Scott, P.; Ahmun, R.; de Weymarn, C.; Gardner, E.; Bliss, A.; Jones, T. W.; Callaghan, S. J.; Tallent, J.								Evolution of anthropometric and physical performance characteristics of international male cricketers from 2014 to 2020 in a World Cup winning nation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1190	1197	17479541221105455	10.1177/17479541221105455			AUG 2023	2023	The aim of the study was to firstly present a comprehensive physical profile of international cricketers in a World Cup winning cricket nation. Secondly, to describe changes in physical profiles across seven years. Fifty-two senior international cricketers' physical profiles were retrospectively analysed across seven years. Using linear mixed-modelling, changes in stature, body mass, sum-of-8 skinfolds, sprinting time (10 and 40 m), run-2 time, counter movement jump (CMJ), push and pull strength capacity and the Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test level-1 (Yo-Yo-IR1) were analysed during a seven-year period. There were no significant changes in body mass (p = .63) or stature (p = .99) during this time. However, there was a significant (p < .001) mean decrease of similar to 14 mm in the sum-of-8 skinfolds. Distance covered in the Yo-Yo-IR1 also showed a significant (p = .002) effect of years, with a mean increase of 459 m in 2017 when compared with 2014. A significantly (p = .01) more balanced push-to-pull strength capacity ratio was also evident across years as a result of a significant (p < .001) increase in pull strength capacity. Significant (p < .05) fluctuations in CMJ, sprint and run-2 time were seen, with no obvious trends. International cricketers within our study have gone through a notable physical transformation that has likely resulted in an increase in lean mass and aerobic capacity. The change across time to a more balanced push-to-pull strength capacity may be beneficial for injury prevention.		[Scott, P.; Ahmun, R.; de Weymarn, C.; Gardner, E.] England & Wales Cricket Board, London, England; [Bliss, A.; Callaghan, S. J.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, London, England; [Jones, T. W.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Tallent, J.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Wivenhoe Campus, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England; [Tallent, J.] Monash Univ, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Tallent, J.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Wivenhoe Campus, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000810977800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Trama, Robin; Hautier, Christophe; Blache, Yoann; Bertucci, William; Chiementin, Xavier; Hintzy, Frederique								Intra-cycle analysis of muscle vibration during cycling								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	4			554	566		10.1080/14763141.2022.2083010			APR 3 2023	2023	Cyclists are exposed for a long period to continuous vibrations. When a muscle is exposed to vibration, its efficiency decreases, the onset of fatigue occurs sooner, and the comfort of the cyclist is reduced. This study characterised the vastus lateralis (VL) soft tissue vibrations for different input frequencies and different pedalling phases. Ten cyclists were recruited to pedal at 55, 70, 85, and 100 rpm on a vibrating cycle ergometer that induced vibrations at frequencies ranging from 14.4 Hz (55 rpm) to 26.3 Hz (100 rpm). The VL vibration amplitude was quantified with a continuous wavelet transform and expressed as a function of the crank angle. The pedalling cycle was split into four phases (downstroke, backstroke, upstroke, and overstroke) to express the mean vibration amplitude and frequency of each phase. Statistical analysis depicted that VL vibration frequency increased with the pedalling cadence and that the VL was exposed to up to 50% more vibration amplitudes during the downstroke phase at a slow cadence. The increase in the pedal vibration frequency, a higher vibration transmission due to greater normal force on the pedal, and strong activation of the VL during the downstroke phase were discussed to explain these results.		[Trama, Robin; Hautier, Christophe; Blache, Yoann] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite, Lyon, France; [Bertucci, William] Univ Reims, Lab Performance Metrol Sante Soc, Reims, France; [Chiementin, Xavier] Univ Reims, Inst Therm Mecan & Mat, Reims, France; [Hintzy, Frederique] Univ Savoie Mt Blanc, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite, Chambery, France; [Trama, Robin] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite, Lyon, France								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000807018800001	39	Article; Article		
J	Zach, Sima; Furman, Elia								Feedback from basketball coaches: Type, quantity, and real-time outcomes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1306	1316	17479541221105609	10.1177/17479541221105609			DEC 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between different types and frequencies of feedback given by basketball coaches and the outcome of possessions during the game. The verbal behavior of three basketball coaches was recorded during five full games, and these games were also video recorded. On average, the coaches gave 2.54 feedbacks per possession, with a total of 1931 feedbacks during 761 possessions in all five games. Feedback responses were classified into six sub-categories, including positive, negative, open, closed, focused, and general, and could belong to more than one category. Those that did not fit any category were marked as neutral. The relationship between the amount and types of feedbacks given and the results of the possessions was examined. Results show that of the six sub-categories, only positive and negative feedbacks were significantly related to possession outcomes. Moreover, the coaches tended to give large amounts of feedback and in varying frequencies, regardless of the possession outcomes. In conclusion, our results indicate that although not all types of feedback directly affect the performance during the game of basketball, positive feedback seems to be beneficial while negative feedback could even cause harm, even if to a relatively small extent. Basketball coaches should therefore make an effort to provide more positive feedback and less negative feedback.		[Zach, Sima; Furman, Elia] Acad Coll Wingate, Wingate Inst, IL-4290200 Netanya, Israel; [Zach, Sima] Acad Coll Wingate, Wingate Inst, IL-4290200 Netanya, Israel								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000809046900001	42	Article; Article		
J	Fernandes, Alexia; Mezencio, Bruno; Soares, Susana; Carvalho, Diogo Duarte; Silva, Antonio; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.								Intra- and inter-cycle velocity variations in sprint front crawl swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			2960	2973		10.1080/14763141.2022.2077815			DEC 1 2024	2024	Intra- and inter-cycle velocity variations are of utmost importance for achieving enhanced swimming performances. However, intra-cycle events can impact and interfere with the subsequent cycles, making relevant to study several consecutive cycles allowing a better understanding of this possibility. We have assessed front crawl intra- and inter-cyclic velocity variations and overall biomechanical variables in sprint front crawl swimming. Twenty-seven elite swimmers performed 25 m all-out front crawl, were videotaped using moving cameras placed at the sagittal plane and were grouped according to their sprint mean velocity. Coefficient of variation, root mean square error and mean velocity differences between two consecutive paired cycles allowed assessing intra- and inter-cycle velocity variations. Visual inspection was performed to analyse possible variability causes and independent-measures t-test allowed comparing groups. Sprint front crawl was characterised by intra- (11.12 +/- 2.98) and inter-cycle velocity variation (2.27 +/- 0.80 of inter-cycle velocity coefficient of variation and 0.031 +/- 0.014 of root mean square error), with no differences between fastest and slowest swimmers. Front crawl intra-cycle velocity variation was not related to mean velocity and cycle sequence but considered swimmers' personal strategy. Despite some abnormal oscillations within cycles, inter-cycle velocity variation was not caused by intra-cycle velocity variation, mean velocity or cycle sequence.		[Fernandes, Alexia; Soares, Susana; Carvalho, Diogo Duarte; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent, Sport & Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [Mezencio, Bruno] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Biomech Lab, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Silva, Antonio] Univ Trasos Montes & Alto Douro, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Silva, Antonio] Univ Trasos Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Exercise & Hlth Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent, Sport & Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal								23							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000807018600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Di Paolo, Stefano; Bragonzoni, Laura; Della Villa, Francesco; Grassi, Alberto; Zaffagnini, Stefano								Do healthy athletes exhibit at-risk biomechanics for anterior cruciate ligament injury during pivoting movements?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			2995	3008		10.1080/14763141.2022.2080105			DEC 1 2024	2024	A consistent injury mechanism involving multiple joints has been highlighted in athletes experiencing anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) rupture. However, if and to what extent healthy athletes incur an unsafe biomechanical profile during high-dynamics movements is unknown. The present study aimed to investigate the occurrence of the ACL risk profile in a competitive pivoting sports population.Thirty-four athletes (22.8 +/- 4.1 y) performed a frontal deceleration and a change of direction at 90 degrees. Full-body kinematics was collected through 15 wearable inertial sensors (Awinda, Xsens). Nine ACL risk factors were defined based on four categories: limited lower limb flexion, valgus collapse, foot rotation and trunk rotation. A movement trial was considered 'at-risk' in the presence of at least 5 simultaneous risk factors. The rate of athletes with at-risk movements was assessed and multivariate regression for associated outcomes was conducted.The overall rate of injury profile occurrence was 9-12%. The injury profile was identified at least in one trial in 24 athletes (71%) and three trials in 5 athletes (15%). Significant associations were found for higher approaching speed (OR = 4.3) and female sex (OR = 4.8). A large occurrence of the typical ACL injury biomechanical profile was noticed. Large screenings are advisable to identify at-risk athletes and promote preventative strategies.		[Di Paolo, Stefano; Bragonzoni, Laura] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies, Bologna, Italy; [Della Villa, Francesco] FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Educ & Res Dept, Isokinet Med Grp, Bologna, Italy; [Grassi, Alberto; Zaffagnini, Stefano] IRCCS Ist Ortoped Rizzoli, Orthopaed & Traumatol Clin 2, Bologna, Italy; [Zaffagnini, Stefano] Univ Bologna, Dept Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, Bologna, Italy; [Di Paolo, Stefano] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies, Bologna, Italy								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000805330600001	54	Article; Article		
J	Kobelski, Greggory P.; Radel, Luke C.; Jones, Jacob C.; O'Brien, Michael J.; Meehan, William P.; Sugimoto, Dai								Comparison of pre-high school and high school football quarterback injuries								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	4			331	335		10.1080/00913847.2022.2082854			JUL 4 2023	2023	Objective To compare the common injuries of pre-high school American football quarterbacks (Pre-HS QBs) and high school American football quarterbacks (HS QBs) within the last 15 years. Methods A retrospective chart review was performed at a sports medicine clinic at a tertiary-level pediatric medical center. Pediatric and adolescent American football quarterback patients who sustained sports-related injuries were extracted. Injury status (acute vs. overuse), injured anatomic locations, injury types, and surgical status were compared by Pre-HS QBs (<14 years old) and HS QBs (14-18 years old). Results A total of 121 injuries were found in 118 male Pre-HS QBs (mean age: 12.4 +/- 1.6), while 302 injuries were observed in 256 male HS QBs (mean age: 15.8 +/- 1.4). Overall, nearly two-third (2/3) of injuries were acute (64.3%) while a little over one-third (1/3) of injuries were overuse in nature (35.7%), and there were no differences between Pre-HS and HS QBs (58.7% vs. 66.7%, p = 0.114). The top 3 injured anatomic locations for Pre-HS QBs were elbow (20.7%), shoulder (18.2%), and head/neck (14.0%). For HS QBs, the top 3 injured anatomic locations were shoulder (24.5%), knee (17.5%), and head/neck (15.2%). There were significant differences in proportion of elbow (20.7% vs. 10.6%, p = 0.006), hip/trunk/upper leg (10.7% vs. 3.3%, p = 0.002), and knee injuries (9.1% vs. 17.5%, p = 0.028) between Pre-HS and HS QBs. Pre-HS QBs had significantly more bony/cartilaginous/labral injuries than their older counterparts (60.3% vs. 46.3%, p = 0.009) while HS QBs experienced significantly more ligamentous injuries than Pre-HS QBs (14.2% vs. 5.8%, p = 0.015). Conclusions QB-associated injuries were distinctively different between Pre-HS and HS QBs. Future studies are warranted to investigate relatively high proportions of elbow injuries as well as bony/cartilaginous/labral injuries found in Pre-HS QBs.		[Kobelski, Greggory P.; O'Brien, Michael J.; Meehan, William P.; Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Kobelski, Greggory P.; O'Brien, Michael J.; Meehan, William P.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Radel, Luke C.] Mayo Clin, Div Community Pediat & Adolescent Med, Dept Pediat & Adolescent Med, Rochester, MN USA; [Jones, Jacob C.] Scottish Rite Children, Dept Pediat Sports Med, Dallas, TX USA; [Jones, Jacob C.] Univ Texas Southwestern, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Dallas, TX USA; [O'Brien, Michael J.; Meehan, William P.] Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Sugimoto, Dai] 2-7-5 Higashifushimi, Nishi Tokyo, Tokyo 2020021, Japan								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000805347000001	22	Article; Article		
J	Morais, Jorge E.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Cobley, Stephen; Barbosa, Tiago M.								Identifying Differences in Swimming Speed Fluctuation in Age-Group Swimmers by Statistical Parametric Mapping: A Biomechanical Assessment for Performance Development								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	2			358	366		10.52082/jssm.2023.358			JUN 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to compare the assessment of swimming speed processed as a discrete variable and as a continuous variable in young swimmers. One-hundred and twenty young swimmers (60 boys: age = 12.91 +/- 0.86 years; 60 girls: age = 12.46 +/- 0.94 years) were analysed. The dataset for each sex was divided into three tiers: (i) tier #1 - best-performing swimmers; (ii) tier #2: intermediate-performing swimmers, and; (iii) tier #3 - poorest-performing swimmers. As a discrete variable, swimming speed showed significant sex and tier effects, and a significant sex*tier interaction (p < 0.001). Speed fluctuation showed a nonsignificant sex effect (p > 0.05), a significant tier effect (p < 0.001), and a non-significant sex*tier interaction (p > 0.05). As a continuous variable, the swimming speed time-curve presented significant sex and tier effects (p < 0.001) throughout the stroke cycle, and a significant sex*tier interaction (p < 0.05) in some moments of the stroke cycle. Swimming speed fluctuation analysed as a discrete variable and as a continuous variable can be used in a complementary way. Nonetheless, SPM can provide deeper insight into differences within the stroke cycle. Thus, coaches and practitioners should be aware that different knowledge about the swimmers' stroke cycle can be learned by assessing swimming speed using both methods.		[Morais, Jorge E.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Campus Sta Apolonia,Apartado 1101, P-5301856 Braganca, Portugal; [Morais, Jorge E.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Cobley, Stephen] Univ Sydney, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Morais, Jorge E.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Campus Sta Apolonia,Apartado 1101, P-5301856 Braganca, Portugal								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:001006716300001	49	Article; Article		
J	Figueira, Bruno; Mateus, Nuno; Esteves, Pedro; Dadeliene, Ruta; Paulauskas, Rutenis								Physiological Responses and Technical-Tactical Performance of Youth Basketball Players: A Brief Comparison between 3x3 and 5x5 Basketball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			332	340		10.52082/jssm.2022.332			JUN 2022	2022	This study aims to examine youth players??? physiological responses and technical-tactical performance when playing simulated 3x3 and 5x5 basketball games. Fifteen well-trained male basketball players (16.6 ?? 0.2 years old) participated in scrimmage basketball games under two different conditions: 3x3 (half-court) and 5x5 (full-court). The players??? heart rate, muscle oxygen saturation and total hemoglobin data were collected and computed to describe physiological responses, while video analysis was used to characterize their technical-tactical performance. A Bayesian one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to quantify the predictive influence of both game conditions on the physiological and the technical-tactical variables. The results indicated that different game conditions influenced the players??? physiological responses slightly, as only hemoglobin sample entropy increased between the 3x3 and 5x5 game scenarios. Conversely, statistical differences in most of the technical-tactical variables were moderate and decisive in favour of the game condition model. Overall, this study emphasizes that playing 3x3 and 5x5 basketball games lead to relatively negligible differences in the players??? physiological response but pronounced variations in their technical-tactical performance. Therefore, important implications may be drawn to the applied field as the specificity of technical-tactical adaptations when playing 3x3 or 5x5 formats should be considered by basketball coaches to better design the training sessions for players that fall within our sample age category.		[Figueira, Bruno; Paulauskas, Rutenis] Vytautas Magnus Univ, Educ Acad, Educ Res Inst, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Figueira, Bruno; Mateus, Nuno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, CreativeLab Res Community, CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Mateus, Nuno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Esteves, Pedro] Polytech Inst Guarda, Guarda, Portugal; [Esteves, Pedro] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Dadeliene, Ruta] Vilnius Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Phys & Sports Med, Vilnius, Lithuania; [Figueira, Bruno] Vytautas Magnus Univ, Educ Acad, Educ Res Inst, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Figueira, Bruno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, CreativeLab Res Community, CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal								38							Sport Sciences	WOS:000807591800001	48	Article; Article		
J	Reiner, Marina Maren; Tilp, Markus; Guilhem, Gael; Morales-Artacho, Antonio; Konrad, Andreas								Comparison of A Single Vibration Foam Rolling and Static Stretching Exercise on the Muscle Function and Mechanical Properties of the Hamstring Muscles								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			287	297		10.52082/jssm.2022.287			JUN 2022	2022	Knee extension and hip flexion range of motion (ROM) and functional performance of the hamstrings are of great importance in many sports. The aim of this study was to investigate if static stretching (SS) or vibration foam rolling (VFR) induce greater changes in ROM, functional performance, and stiffness of the hamstring muscles. Twenty-five male volunteers were tested on two appointments and were randomly assigned either to a 2 min bout of SS or VFR. ROM, counter movement jump (CMJ) height, maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) peak torque, passive resistive torque (PRT), and shear modulus of semitendinosus (ST), semimembranosus (SM), and biceps femoris (BFlh), were assessed before and after the intervention. In both groups ROM increased (SS = 7.7%, P < 0.01; VFR = 8.8%, P < 0.01). The MVIC values decreased after SS (-5.1%, P < 0.01) only. Shear modulus of the ST changed for -6.7% in both groups (VFR: P < 0.01; SS: P < 0.01). Shear modulus decreased in SM after VFR (-6.5%; P = 0.03) and no changes were observed in the Bf(lh) in any group (VFR = -1%; SS = -2.9%). PRT and CMJ values did not change following any interventions. Our findings suggest that VFR might be a favorable warm-up routine if the goal is to acutely increase ROM without compromising functional performance.		[Reiner, Marina Maren; Tilp, Markus; Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Guilhem, Gael; Morales-Artacho, Antonio] French Inst Sport INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, Paris, France; [Konrad, Andreas] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000806458900001	60	Article; Article		
J	Moore, Paul; Krause, Alexandra								Protein Distribution: Recommendations and Practical Applications for Elite Athletes and Active Adults								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	3			117	121		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000676			JUN 2022	2022	Evenly distributing protein throughout the day is being examined in current research to determine its affect on athletic performance and muscle protein synthesis. Research has suggested that protein amount and timing need to be taken into account to optimize the anabolic window and encourage muscle repair postworkout. This article provides a discussion of muscle protein synthesis, the protein threshold, increasing hypertrophy, the positive performance impact of evenly distributing protein throughout the day, and offers practical applications for these research-based recommendations. This article will help dietitians, strength and conditioning coaches, and others working with elite athletes and/or active adults to make recommendations that are evidence based and related to current research on protein timing and suggested amounts of protein throughout the day.		[Moore, Paul; Krause, Alexandra] Appalachian State Univ, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Moore, Paul] Appalachian State Univ, Boone, NC 28608 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000804246400012	14	Article; Article		
J	Stuart, Andrew; Cochrane-Snyman, Kristen C.								Strength Training and Development in Competitive Speed Skating								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	3			1	10		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000663			JUN 2022	2022	Speed skating is a time trial-based sport that requires skill, strength, power, and capacity. The unique demands of the sport require a thorough need analysis to better understand the physical requirements, potential injuries, and periodization to successfully prepare athletes. This article will focus on the overall development of the short-distance to middle-distance speed skater to provide coaches, athletes, and strength and conditioning professionals an understanding of the biomechanical, physiological, and energy system demands of the sport and to identify common injuries that are sustained from repeated efforts.		[Stuart, Andrew] US Speedskating, Salt Lake City, UT 84118 USA; [Stuart, Andrew] Charles Univ Prague, Phys Educ & Sports, Prague, Czech Republic; [Cochrane-Snyman, Kristen C.] Concordia Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Chicago, IL USA; [Stuart, Andrew] US Speedskating, Salt Lake City, UT 84118 USA; [Stuart, Andrew] Charles Univ Prague, Phys Educ & Sports, Prague, Czech Republic								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000804246400001	46	Article; Article		
J	Mang, Zachary; Kravitz, Len; Beam, Jason								Transfer Between Lifts: Increased Strength in Untrained Exercises								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	3			101	106		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000667			JUN 2022	2022	The principle of specificity confers that physiological adaptations to exercise reflect the specific stimuli applied during an exercise training program. When applied to resistance training (RT), the principle of specificity implies that the acquisition of strength, which is often measured as a 1 repetition maximum, is specific to several variables of an RT program such as intensity, contraction type, and motor pattern. Although the principle of specificity holds true, a phenomenon called "transfer" also occurs when a lifter increases their strength in an exercise that they did not train. For example, if a lifter performed lunges in lieu of back squat, but their back squat strength increased anyway, there would be transfer between the lunge and back squat. This column summarizes recent research that reported transfer between bilateral exercises, unilateral to bilateral exercises, and single-joint to multiple-joint exercises and provides several recommendations for practical applications along the way.		[Mang, Zachary; Kravitz, Len] Univ New Mexico, Dept Hlth Exercise & Sports Sci, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA; [Beam, Jason] Santa Fe Community Coll, Sch Fitness Educ, Santa Fe, NM USA; [Beam, Jason] Tulane Univ, Kinesiol Dept, New Orleans, LA 70118 USA; [Mang, Zachary] Univ New Mexico, Dept Hlth Exercise & Sports Sci, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000804246400010	29	Article; Article		
J	Vagner, Michal; Olah, Vladan; Cleather, Daniel J.; Stastny, Petr								Evidence-Based Functional Training to Improve Front Push Kick Technique, Speed, and Net Force Production								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	3			58	68		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000666			JUN 2022	2022	Kicking is an essential skill for combat athletes and military personnel. Therefore, the aim of this article is to present evidence-based training principles to achieve beneficial changes in technique and performance through functional training. The profile of subelite and elite kickers is presented and is used as a foundation for exercise prescription in both populations. The article emphasizes the importance of combining both functional training with a core emphasis and traditional general strength preparation to improve all aspects of front push kick performance. Example training programs for both subelite and elite kickers are presented that are based on a block periodization approach.		[Vagner, Michal; Olah, Vladan] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Mil Phys Educ, Prague, Czech Republic; [Vagner, Michal; Cleather, Daniel J.; Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sports Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Cleather, Daniel J.] St Marys Univ, Twickenham, England; [Cleather, Daniel J.] Inst Globally Distributed Open Res & Educ IGDORE, Prague, Czech Republic; [Vagner, Michal] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Mil Phys Educ, Prague, Czech Republic; [Vagner, Michal] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sports Games, Prague, Czech Republic								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000804246400006	26	Article; Article		
J	Rawlley-Singh, Ishan								Strategic Planning and Program Management of Strength and Conditioning Support Within Elite Sport: A Technical Systems-Driven Perspective								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	3			88	100		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000664			JUN 2022	2022	Successful performance in sport is a multifactorial process that includes a blend of technical, tactical, physiological, biomechanical, and psychological features interacting together to result in the desired performance outcome. The strength and conditioning (S&C) program, depending on the sport, can support performance by influencing the physiological and biomechanical components through direct and indirect avenues of impact. Performance planning to achieve identified objectives is typically a long-term process, ranging from a year in seasonal professional team sports to a four-year Olympic cycle. It is critical to develop and implement key strategic processes to ensure that the S&C program effectively supports performance at major competitions. Furthermore, it is essential to have clarity for the role of S&C within the overall sports training program. Having a clear approach to deconstructing and understanding performance from a human performance perspective, showing how and where the impact on performance can be made, and objectively demonstrating the contribution to performance variables is vital. The current article uses the author's experience of working across a range of Olympic and professional sports to articulate a process for strategic planning and managing S&C support from a technical perspective. Examples from various sports have been used to illustrate critical strategic processes.		[Rawlley-Singh, Ishan] Chinese Olymp Comm, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Rawlley-Singh, Ishan] Chinese Olymp Comm, Beijing, Peoples R China								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000804246400009	52	Article; Article		
J	Uchino, Shota; Saito, Hiroki; Okura, Kazuki; Kitagawa, Takashi; Sato, Shuntaro								Effectiveness of a supervised rehabilitation compared with a home- based rehabilitation following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: A systematic review and meta-analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				296	304		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.010			MAY 2022	2022	Objective: This systematic review aimed to compare the effectiveness of supervised rehabilitation with regard to knee function with that of home-based rehabilitation in patients undergoing anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Methods: The databases searched were: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Central), EMBASE, MEDLINE (via Ovid) and PEDro. All randomized controlled trials comparing supervised rehabilitation (SVR) with home-based rehabilitation (HBR) following ACLR were included. Two reviewers evaluated the study quality using the Cochrane Risk of Bias Assessment (RoB 2.0) tool. Estimates are presented as standardized mean differences (SMD) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). The quality of evidence was assessed using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) approach. Results: A total of nine studies met the inclusion criteria, and five studies were included in the meta analysis. The key outcomes analyzed were self-reported knee function and knee muscle strength. Across all comparisons, there was very low-quality evidence of no significant difference between the SVR and HBR groups at 24 weeks. Conclusions: The limited evidence available does not suggest that SVR results in superior outcomes than HBR in patients with ACLR. Additional studies are needed to clarify whether patient characteristics and study protocols with longer interventions effect the results.		[Uchino, Shota] Med Corp Jinseikai Kiminomori Orthopedic Clinic, Oamishirasato, Chiba 2993241, Japan; [Saito, Hiroki] Tokyo Univ Technol, Dept Phys Therapy, Ota Ku, Tokyo 1448535, Japan; [Okura, Kazuki] Akita Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Akita, Akita 0108543, Japan; [Kitagawa, Takashi] Shinshu Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Matsumoto, Nagano 3908621, Japan; [Sato, Shuntaro] Nagasaki Univ Hosp, Clin Res Ctr, Nagasaki, Nagasaki 8528102, Japan; [Saito, Hiroki] Tokyo Univ Technol, Dept Phys Therapy, Ota Ku, Tokyo 1448535, Japan								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000807777100003	66	Article; Article		
J	Buckley, Thomas A.; Browne, Steven; Hunzinger, Katherine J.; Kaminski, Thomas W.; Swanik, Charles Buz								Concussion is not associated with elevated rates of lower-extremity musculoskeletal injuries in National Football League Players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	4			325	330		10.1080/00913847.2022.2080515			JUL 4 2023	2023	Objective: Emerging evidence has identified an similar to 2x elevated risk of musculoskeletal (MSK) injury in the year following a concussion. Most of these studies have examined a single college/university athletic department and may lack generalizability to professional sports. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to assess the odds of post-concussion MSK injury utilizing publicly available National Football League (NFL) injury reports. Methods: Concussions were identified through a review of published NFL injury reports during the 2015, 2016, and 2017 regular seasons. Concussed players were matched by team and position, and injuries were tracked for both groups for the remainder of the season. A chi-square analysis compared the frequency of MSK injury in both groups and a Cox Proportional Hazard model calculated the risk of sustaining a subsequent MSK injury. Results: There were 322 concussed NFL players who met inclusion criteria and were successfully matched. From the time of concussion through the remainder of the season, 21.4% of the concussed players were injured and 26.4% of control participants were injured. There was no difference in MSK injury rates (p = 0.166), and the relative risk ratio was 0.90 for subsequent injury in the concussion group. There was no difference in the time to event for subsequent MSK between the two groups (p = 0.123). Conclusion: The primary finding of this study was no elevated risk of post-concussion MSK in NFL football players.		[Buckley, Thomas A.; Kaminski, Thomas W.; Swanik, Charles Buz] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, 349 STAR Tower,100 Discovery Blvd, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Buckley, Thomas A.; Kaminski, Thomas W.; Swanik, Charles Buz] Univ Delaware, Interdisciplinary Program Biomechan & Movement Sc, Newark, DE USA; [Browne, Steven] Univ Delaware, Dept Intercollegiate Athlet, Newark, DE USA; [Hunzinger, Katherine J.] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Dept Epidemiol Biostat & Informat, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Buckley, Thomas A.] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, 349 STAR Tower,100 Discovery Blvd, Newark, DE 19716 USA								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000801168800001	54	Article; Article		
J	Bunster, Josefina; Martinez, Maria Jesus; V. Mauri-Stecca, Manuel; Leppe, Jaime; Nelson, Evan O.; Heiderscheit, Bryan; Besomi, Manuela								Cross-cultural adaptation and evaluation of the psychometric properties of the University of Wisconsin Running Injury and Recovery Index questionnaire in Spanish (UWRI-S)								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				289	295		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.007			MAY 2022	2022	Objective: To cross-culturally adapt and evaluate the psychometric properties of the University of Wisconsin Running Injury and Recovery Index questionnaire in Spanish (UWRI-S) in Chilean runners with a running-related injury. Design: Cross-cultural adaptation and validation study, following the Consensus-based Standards for selecting health Measurement Instruments (COSMIN) recommendations. Setting: Outpatient sports medicine clinic and running clubs. Participants: UWRI was forward and backward translated, and culturally adapted. Thirty-one runners participated in the content validity of the UWRI-S; and fifty-seven in the assessment of psychometric properties. Main outcome measures: Runners seeking care from a physiotherapist completed the UWRI-S (baseline and after 48-72 h for reliability), Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS), Patient Specific Functional Scale (PSFS), Global Rating of Change scale (GROC), and Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS). Results: Suggestions about accuracy of wording and understanding of items were incorporated. UWRI-S showed a positive moderate correlation with LEFS (r = 0.6; p < 0.05), positive fair with GROC (r = 0.5, p < 0.05), negative fair with NPRS (r =-0.4; p < 0.05) and no correlation with PSFS (r = 0.3; p = 0.1). UWRI-S demonstrated acceptable internal consistency (a = 0.87) and test-retest reliability (ICC = 0.87). Conclusion: UWRI-S is a valid and reliable measure to evaluate running ability of Chilean runners during recovery from a running-related injury. (C) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bunster, Josefina; V. Mauri-Stecca, Manuel; Leppe, Jaime; Besomi, Manuela] Univ Desarrollo, Phys Therapy & Rehabil Program, Fac Med Clin Alemana, Santiago, Chile; [Martinez, Maria Jesus; V. Mauri-Stecca, Manuel; Leppe, Jaime; Besomi, Manuela] Univ Desarrollo, Sch Phys Therapy, Fac Med Clin Alemana, Santiago, Chile; [Nelson, Evan O.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Dept Family Med & Community Hlth, Madison, WI USA; [Heiderscheit, Bryan] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, Madison, WI USA; [Heiderscheit, Bryan] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Dept Biomed Engn, Madison, WI USA; [Besomi, Manuela] Running Clin, CP 1075 Lac Beauport, Quebec City, PQ G3B 2J8, Canada; [Besomi, Manuela] Univ Desarrollo, Carrera Kinesiol Ave Plaza 680, Apoquindo, Las Condes, Chile								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000807777100002	42	Article; Article		
J	Akin, Zafer; Issabayev, Murat; Rizvanoghlu, Islam								Incentives and Strategic Behavior of Professional Boxers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				24	1			28	49	15270025221100203	10.1177/15270025221100203			JAN 2023	2023	In professional boxing, a higher-ranked boxer chooses his opponent among challengers varying in popularity and strength. We build a three-stage model of a professional boxing fight between the chooser and a challenger to examine the strategic incentives of a chooser in sharing the purse and exerting a proper level of effort. More importantly, we endogenize the choice of the opponent and the purse to be generated. We found that an older chooser who is ready to cash in his reputation tends to choose a stronger opponent with little effort, while a young rising "star" prefers a match against weaker opponents.		[Akin, Zafer] Amer Univ Dubai, Dept Decis Sci & Econ, Dubai, U Arab Emirates; [Issabayev, Murat] Narxoz Univ, Dept Doctoral Studies, Alma Ata, Kazakhstan; [Rizvanoghlu, Islam] Univ Houston, Dept Econ, Houston, TX 77204 USA; [Rizvanoghlu, Islam] Univ Houston, Dept Econ, Houston, TX 77204 USA								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000805315200001	20	Article; Article		
J	Moura, Nelio Alfano; Han, PengPeng; Moura, Larissa de Paula; Wang, GuoJie; Yuan, TingGang								Selected factors for triple jump preparation: A case study of an Olympic silver medalist								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			902	914	17479541221094670	10.1177/17479541221094670			JUN 2023	2023	The People's Republic of China obtained at the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games its best historical performance in the triple jump, thereby winning the silver medal. The objective of this case study was to present how evidence-based knowledge was applied to improve selected factors that may have contributed to this result. The factors included running speed, strength, muscle power, jumping technique, body composition, mental preparation, training organization, and recovery. Short training blocks, monitoring of training sessions and athlete's status, individualized tapering, use of activation sessions the day before competition, and postactivation performance enhancement strategies used in training and at the event were concepts followed during the preparation to the Games. Improved performance in field tests and power training was accompanied by positive changes in approach speed, run-up accuracy, and jumping technique, which, together with mental preparation, enabled two personal records to be set in the Olympic final. The results in the field tests were among the best ever reported and could constitute a benchmark for world-class triple jumpers.		[Moura, Nelio Alfano] Chinese Athlet Assoc, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Moura, Nelio Alfano] Esporte Clube Pinheiros, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Han, PengPeng; Yuan, TingGang] China Inst Sport Sci, 11 Stadium Rd, Beijing 100061, Peoples R China; [Moura, Larissa de Paula] Univ Sao Judas Tadeu, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Wang, GuoJie] Nanjing Sport Inst, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Han, PengPeng] China Inst Sport Sci, 11 Stadium Rd, Beijing 100061, Peoples R China								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000800456200001	62	Article; Article		
J	McManus, Chris; Cooper, Chris E.; Sandercock, Gavin								The influence of compression tights on running economy varies by relative intensity								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			793	800	17479541221097961	10.1177/17479541221097961			JUN 2023	2023	The effect of compression tights on running economy is unclear. The purpose of this investigation was to assess the influence of compression tights on economy. Following an incremental test to exhaustion to determine aerobic capacity (V?O-2max) and peak running speed (vV?O-2max), twenty-six moderately endurance-trained males (28 +/- 7 years; 76.1 +/- 8.4 kg; V?O-2max = 54.7 +/- 4.8 mL center dot kg(-1)center dot min(-1)) were allocated to either a 60% (n = 8), 62.5% (n = 9) or 65% vV?O-2max group (n = 9) using block randomisation. Participants ran for 15 min at the allocated vV?O-2max with compression tights and a non-compression control condition in a randomised, counter-balanced order, separated by seven days. Oxygen consumption (V?O-2) and expired carbon dioxide (V?CO2) was measured to determine economy as caloric unit cost. No difference was observed between conditions for the 60% and 62.5% vV?O-2max groups, however economy was improved with compression at 65% vV?O-2max (P < 0.01). Combined analysis of all participants revealed Delta RE (Delta = control - compression) correlated with relative aerobic capacity (%V?O-2max) (r = 0.50, P < 0.01) but not running speed (r = 0.04, P < 0.84). These data suggest that compression tights influence economy at 65% vV?O-2max or at relative exercise intensities of approximately 75-85%V?O-2max.		[McManus, Chris; Cooper, Chris E.; Sandercock, Gavin] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England; [McManus, Chris] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000800455600001	47	Article; Article		
J	Peek, Kerry								The measurement of neck strength: A guide for sports medicine clinicians								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				282	288		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.006			MAY 2022	2022	This masterclass aims to provide an overview of the measurement of neck strength and the factors which can increase the ecological validity of the testing protocol within an athletic population. Adopting a 'gold standard' method for measuring neck strength is of vital importance when determining strength differences across sports, ages and sexes. Without a 'gold standard' method current variations in testing procedure and equipment have created challenges in establishing normative neck strength data. With encouraging evidence that higher neck strength can have a protective effect against sports-related head and neck injuries, including concussion, new injury prevention knowledge may be impeded by a lack of consensus on how to accurately measure neck strength, with a number of different methods available. This masterclass will outline the factors clinicians should consider when selecting a device and measurement protocol when measuring maximal neck strength as well as how to interpret the results. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Peek, Kerry] Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Peek, Kerry] Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000807777100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Fleisig, Glenn S.; Slowik, Jonathan S.; Wassom, Derek; Yanagita, Yuki; Bishop, Jasper; Diffendaffer, Alek								Comparison of marker-less and marker-based motion capture for baseball pitching kinematics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			2950	2959		10.1080/14763141.2022.2076608			DEC 1 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to compare baseball pitching kinematics measured with marker-less and marker-based motion capture. Two hundred and seventy-five fastball pitches were captured at 240 Hz simultaneously with a 9-camera marker-less system and a 12-camera marker system. The pitches were thrown by 30 baseball pitchers (age 17.1 +/- 3.1 years). Data for each trial were time-synchronised between the two systems using the instant of ball release. Coefficients of Multiple Correlations (CMC) were computed to assess the similarity of waveforms between the two systems. Discrete measurements at foot contact, during arm cocking, and at ball release were compared between the systems using Bland-Altman plots and descriptive statistics. CMC values for the five time series analysed ranged from 0.88 to 0.97, indicating consistency in movement patterns between systems. Biases for discrete measurements ranged in magnitude from 0 to 16 degrees. Standard deviations of the differences between systems ranged from 0 to 14 degrees, while intraclass correlations ranged from 0.64 to 0.92. Thus, the marker-based and marker-less motion capture systems produced similar patterns for baseball pitching kinematics. However, based on the variations between the systems, it is recommended that a database of normative ranges be established for each system.		[Fleisig, Glenn S.; Slowik, Jonathan S.; Yanagita, Yuki; Bishop, Jasper; Diffendaffer, Alek] Amer Sports Med Inst, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA; [Fleisig, Glenn S.; Wassom, Derek] Dari Mot, Overland Pk, KS 66210 USA; [Fleisig, Glenn S.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA; [Fleisig, Glenn S.] Dari Mot, Overland Pk, KS 66210 USA								36							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000798351600001	24	Article; Article		
J	Steele, James; Fisher, James P.; Giessing, Jurgen; Androulakis-Korakakis, Patroklos; Wolf, Milo; Kroeske, Bram; Reuters, Rob								Long-Term Time-Course of Strength Adaptation to Minimal Dose Resistance Training Through Retrospective Longitudinal Growth Modeling								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			913	930		10.1080/02701367.2022.2070592			OCT 2 2023	2023	Public health guidelines for resistance training emphasize a minimal effective dose intending for individuals to engage in these behaviors long term. However, few studies have adequately examined the longitudinal time-course of strength adaptations to resistance training. Purpose: The aim of this study was to examine the time-course of strength development from minimal-dose resistance training in a large sample through retrospective training records from a private international exercise company. Methods: Data were available for analysis from 14,690 participants (60% female; aged 48 +/- 11 years) having undergone minimal-dose resistance training (1x/week, single sets to momentary failure of six exercises) up to 352 weeks (similar to 6.8 years) in length. Linear-log growth models examined strength development over time allowing random intercepts and slopes by participant. Results: All models demonstrated a robust linear-log relationship with the first derivatives (i.e., changes in strength with time) trending asymptotically such that by similar to 1-2 years strength had practically reached a "plateau." Sex, bodyweight, and age had minimal interaction effects. However, substantial strength gains were apparent; approximately -30-50% gains over the first year reaching similar to 50-60% of baseline 6 years later. Conclusion: It is unclear if the "plateau" can be overcome through alternative approaches, or whether over the long-term strength gains differ. Considering this, our results support public health recommendations for minimal-dose resistance training for strength adaptations in adults.		[Steele, James; Fisher, James P.; Androulakis-Korakakis, Patroklos; Wolf, Milo] Solent Univ, Southampton, Hants, England; [Giessing, Jurgen] Univ Koblenz Landau, Mainz, Germany; [Kroeske, Bram; Reuters, Rob] Fit20 Int Bv, Zwolle, Netherlands; [Steele, James] Solent Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Social Sci, E Pk Terrace, Southampton SO14 0YN, Hants, England								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000798338100001	63	Article; Article		
J	Singh, Gaurav; Kushwah, Gaurav Singh; Singh, Tanvi; Thapa, Rohit Kumar; Granacher, Urs; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo								Effects of Sand-Based Plyometric-Jump Training in Combination with Endurance Running on Outdoor or Treadmill Surface on Physical Fitness in Young Adult Males								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			277	286		10.52082/jssm.2022.277			JUN 2022	2022	This study aimed at examining the effects of nine weeks of sand-based plyometric jump training (PJT) combined with endurance running on either outdoor or treadmill surface on measures of physical fitness. Male participants (age, 20.1 +/- 1.7 years) were randomly assigned to a sand-based PJT combined with endurance running on outdoor surface (OT, n = 25) or treadmill surface (TT, n = 25). The endurance miming intervention comprised a mixed training method, i.e., long slow distance, tempo, and interval running drills. A control group was additionally included in this study (CG, n = 25). Participants in CG followed their regular physical activity as OT and TT but did not receive any specific intervention. Individuals were assessed for their 50-m linear sprint time, standing long jump (SLJ) distance, cardiorespiratory fitness (i.e., Cooper test), forced vital capacity (FVC), calf girth, and resting heart rate (RHR). A three (groups: OT, TT, CG) by two (time: pre, post) ANOVA for repeated measures was used to analyze the exercise-specific effects. In case of significant group-by-time interactions, Bonferroni adjusted paired (within-group) and independent (between-group comparisons at post) t-tests were used for post-hoc analyses. Significant group-by-time interactions were found for all dependent variables (p < 0.001 - 0.002, eta(2)(p) = 0.16 - 0.78). Group-specific post-hoc tests showed improvements for all variables after OT (p < 0.001, Hedges'g effect size [g] = 0.05 - 1.94) and TT (p < 0.001, g = 0.04 - 2.73), but not in the CG (p = 0.058 - 1.000, g = 0.00 - 0.34). Compared to CG, OT showed larger SLJ (p = 0.001), cardiorespiratory fitness (p = 0.004), FVC (p = 0.008), and RHR (p < 0.001) improvements. TT showed larger improvements in SLJ (p = 0.036), cardiorespiratory fitness (p < 0.001), and RHR (p < 0.001) compared with CG. Compared to OT, TT showed larger improvements for SLJ (p = 0.018). In conclusion, sand-based PJT combined with either OT or TT similarly improved most measures of physical fitness, with greater SLJ improvement after TT. Coaches may use both concurrent exercise regimes based on preferences and logistical constrains (e.g., weather; access to treadmill equipment).		[Singh, Gaurav; Kushwah, Gaurav Singh; Singh, Tanvi; Thapa, Rohit Kumar] Rashtriya Raksha Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Gandhinagar, India; [Granacher, Urs] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Potsdam, Germany; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Andres Bello, Fac Rehabil Sci, Sch Phys Therapy, Exercise & Rehabil Sci Lab, Santiago, Chile; [Granacher, Urs] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Potsdam, Germany								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000802881900001	46	Article; Article		
J	Nobari, Hadi; Silva, Ana Filipa; Vali, Norodin; Clemente, Filipe Manuel								Comparing the physical effects of combining small-sided games with short high-intensity interval training or repeated sprint training in youth soccer players: A parallel-study design								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1142	1154	17479541221101842	10.1177/17479541221101842			AUG 2023	2023	Most of the research combining small-sided games (SSGs) with high-intensity interval training (HIIT) is using the short or long forms of HIIT. However, other types of HIIT as repeated sprint training (RST) could enhance different stimuli. The purpose of the current research was to analyze the within- and between-group variations of physical fitness and body composition of two combined training interventions: (i) SSGs combined with a short high intensity interval training (sHIIT); and (ii) SSGs combined with a RST. This study followed a randomized parallel study design. Twenty-eight youth soccer players (age: 17.3 +/- 0.5) belong to the same team were assigned equally to two intervention groups: SSG + sHIIT versus SSG + RST. Training intervention lasted 4 weeks, with a 2-session/week frequency. The players were tested twice, once before and after the intervention with the following tests: skinfolds (fat mass); Sargent jump test (SJT); standing long jump; sprinting time at 10-, 20-, or 30-m; 5-0-5 for time and deficit; 30-15 intermittent fitness test (30-15IFT) based on the final velocity, and repeated sprint ability (RAST) for peak, minimum, average power, and fatigue index. A mixed analysis of variance was conducted to considering factor x time effect. Between-group analysis revealed no significant differences at baseline and post-intervention period for fat mass, sprinting time at 10-, 20-, and 30-m, change-of-direction (COD) time and deficit, SJT and standing long jump, final velocity at 30-15IFT and RAST peak, average power, and fatigue index (p > 0.05). Within-group analysis revealed that both groups significantly reduced fat mass (p <= 0.001), SJT (p <= 0.001), standing long jump (p <= 0.001), sprint time at 10- and 20-m (p <= 0.001), 30-m (p = 0.002), COD time (p <= 0.001) and deficit (p < 0.05), RAST average (p < 0.05), and final velocity 30-15IFT (p <= 0.001). Only SSG + RST had significant improvements on COD deficit and peak power (p < 0.05). The result of the current research suggests that either SSG + sHIIT or SSG + RST are effective for improving physical fitness in youth soccer players, with a multiple beneficial effect on locomotor profile, speed and COD, jumping performance and repeated sprint ability.		[Nobari, Hadi] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Physiol, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Nobari, Hadi] Transilvania Univ Brasov, Fac Phys Educ & Mt Sports, Dept Motor Performance, Brasov, Romania; [Nobari, Hadi] Univ Mohaghegh Ardabili, Fac Educ Sci & Psychol, Dept Exercise Physiol, Ardebil, Iran; [Silva, Ana Filipa; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Silva, Ana Filipa; Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Res Ctr Sports Performance Recreat Innovat & Tech, Melgaco, Portugal; [Silva, Ana Filipa] Polytech Inst Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Maia, Portugal; [Vali, Norodin] Shahid Rajaee Teacher Training Univ, Dept Exercise Physiol, Tehran, Iran; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Delegacao Covilha, Inst Telecomunicacoes, Lisbon, Portugal; [Nobari, Hadi] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Physiol, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000800291400001	46	Article; Article		
J	Ebert, Jay R.; Edwards, Peter; Joss, Brendan; Annear, Peter T.								A structured accelerated versus control rehabilitation pathway after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction using autologous hamstrings demonstrates earlier improvement in physical outcomes without increasing graft laxity: A randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				271	281		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.005			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To investigate whether an accelerated rehabilitation pathway could enhance strength and functional symmetry after ACLR, without affecting laxity. Design: Randomized Controlled Trial. Setting: Private rehabilitation clinic. Participants: 44 patients randomized to an 'Accelerated' (n = 22) or 'Control' (n = 22) rehabilitation intervention. Main outcome measures: Graft laxity (primary outcome), isokinetic knee extensor and flexor strength, hop tests, surveys, sport participation, re-injuries and re-operations. Results: No knee laxity differences (p > 0.05) were observed. A significantly greater (p = 0.006) percentage of Accelerated (77.3%) versus Control (59.1%) patients were participating in Level 1 or 2 pivoting sports at 12 months. Greater limb symmetry indices were observed in the Accelerated group for knee extensor strength at 6 (p < 0.0001), 12 (p = 0.010) and 24 (p = 0.005) months, as well as the triple hop at 6 (p = 0.015) and 9 (p = 0.008) months, and the triple crossover hop at 6 (p < 0.0001) and 9 (p = 0.009) months. One ipsilateral re-tear was observed (Control group, 17 months). No differences (p??0.05) existed in surveys apart from the Anterior Cruciate Ligament Return to Sport after Injury (ACL-RSI) score, better (p = 0.001) in the Accelerated group at 12 months. Conclusions: Accelerated rehabilitation produced earlier improvement in strength and hop LSIs, without increasing graft laxity. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ebert, Jay R.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia; [Ebert, Jay R.; Joss, Brendan] HFRC Rehabil Clin, 117 Stirling Highway, Nedlands, WA 6009, Australia; [Edwards, Peter] Curtin Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Perth, WA, Australia; [Annear, Peter T.] Perth Orthopaed & Sports Med Ctr, Perth, WA 6005, Australia; [Ebert, Jay R.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000802168400007	68	Article; Article		
J	Allahabadi, Sachin; Gatto, Andrew P.; Kopardekar, Abhay; Davies, Michael R.; Pandya, Nirav K.								National Football League (NFL) quarterbacks who were multisport high school athletes have better in-season performance statistics and career success								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	4			320	324		10.1080/00913847.2022.2075244			JUL 4 2023	2023	Objectives To determine (1) the proportion of National Football League (NFL) quarterbacks (QBs) who were multisport high school athletes (2) whether performance metrics in NFL QBs differed by playing multiple high school sports versus the single sport of football. Methods A comprehensive online search identified NFL QBs from 1995 to 2020, classifying them as single or multisport high school athletes. Performance data were collected for regular season and playoffs when applicable and were calculated as rates. Regular season comparisons were limited to players playing at least eight games. Accolades (Pro Bowls, MVP awards, and Super Bowl victories) were also recorded. Mann-Whitney U was utilized to compare performance metrics between multisport and single sport athletes. Results 403 QBs (223, 55.3% multisport) were included. In the regular season, multisport QBs played in more games (median 6.8, IQR 4-10.6 vs median 5, IQR 2.5-8.3; p = 0.0001), and had higher touchdowns/game (median 0.87, IQR 0.5-1.25 vs median 0.67, IQR 0.42-1; p = 0.0063), pass yards/game (median 159.4, IQR 103.9-206.7 vs median 139.4, IQR 96.3-179.6; p = 0.0392), and QB rating (median 78.5, IQR 69.4-85.2 vs median 74.4, IQR 66.7-81.2; p = 0.0063). There were no differences in pass completion %, interceptions/game, or rush yards/game. Multisport QBs played in more playoff games (median 0.5, IQR 0.22-0.81 vs median 0.33, IQR 0.2-0.62; p = 0.027), and had more Pro Bowl appearances, MVP awards, and Super Bowl victories per athlete (p < 0.05). Conclusion Over half of NFL QBs played multiple high school sports. Multisport involvement is associated with benefits in regular season including a higher proportion of games played, and more touchdowns/game, pass yards/game, and QB rating. Playing multiple sports was also associated with playing more playoff games and having more Pro Bowl appearances, MVP awards, and Super Bowl victories. This data supports the benefits of youth multisport training.		[Allahabadi, Sachin; Kopardekar, Abhay; Davies, Michael R.; Pandya, Nirav K.] Univ Calif San Francisco, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 500 Parnassus Ave MU 320 W, San Francisco, CA 94143 USA; [Gatto, Andrew P.] Touro Univ Calif, Coll Osteopath Med, Vallejo, CA USA; [Allahabadi, Sachin] Univ Calif San Francisco, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 500 Parnassus Ave MU 320 W, San Francisco, CA 94143 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000800887000001	29	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, Ashleigh M.; Bocarro, Jason N.; Saelens, Brian E.								Youth Sport Participation by Metropolitan Status: 2018-2019 National Survey of Children's Health (NSCH)								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	4			895	904		10.1080/02701367.2022.2069662			OCT 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This cross-sectional study used data from the 2018-2019 National Survey of Children's Health to examine the association between metropolitan statistical area (MSA) status and sports participation among American youth ages 6-17. Methods: Weighted prevalence statistics were computed for sports participation by MSA status (non-MSA, MSA), overall and by child sex and age. Modified Poisson regression was used to estimate prevalence ratios (PR) for non-MSA versus MSA youth, before and after adjusting for special health-care needs, race/ethnicity, household income, parent education, and family structure. Results: The final sample included 30,029 youth [M-age = 11.6 years (SD = 0.4), 51.4% female, 49.0% White]. About 56% participated in sports in the past year. Sports participation was significantly higher among females versus males [59.1% (95% CI: 57.4%-60.7%) versus 52.1% (95% CI: 50.4%-53.8%), p < .001]. Among ages 6-11, those in non-MSAs (versus MSAs) were less likely to participate in sports [PR 0.92 (95% CI: 0.86-0.99), p = .033], which was non-significant after adjustment. In adjusted models, youth ages 12-17 in non-MSAs (versus in MSAs) were more likely to participate in sports overall [aPR 1.07 (95% CI: 1.00-1.15), p = .042] and among males [aPR 1.12 (95% CI: 1.01-1.23), p = .026]. Conclusion: The relationship between MSA status and sports participation may be largely driven by factors that affect youth's ability to participate in sports. Sports participation was higher among females versus males overall. In the models adjusted for demographics, non-MSA youth ages 12-17 were more likely to participate, particularly males. Efforts promoting youth sports should consider differences in socio-demographic factors between MSA versus non-MSA areas to help increase participation.		[Johnson, Ashleigh M.; Saelens, Brian E.] Seattle Childrens Res Inst, 1920 Terry Ave,M-S CURE 3, Seattle, WA 98101 USA; [Bocarro, Jason N.] North Carolina State Univ, Raleigh, NC USA; [Saelens, Brian E.] Univ Washington, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [Johnson, Ashleigh M.] Seattle Childrens Res Inst, 1920 Terry Ave,M-S CURE 3, Seattle, WA 98101 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000796838700001	84	Article; Article		
J	Spiegl, Ondrej; Tarassova, Olga; Lundgren, Lina E.; Neuman, Daniel; Arndt, Anton								Comparison of lightweight and traditional figure skating blades, a prototype blade with integrated damping system and a running shoe in simulated figure skating landings and vertical countermovement jumps, and evaluation of dampening properties of the prototype blade								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2063757				2022	To date, there is no empirical evidence suggesting greater jump heights or cushioned landings when using figure skating (FS) blades of different mass and design. This study examined the effect of lightweight (Gold Seal Revolution from John Wilson) and traditional (Apex Supreme from Jackson Ultima and Volant from Riedell) blades, a new prototype blade with an integrated damping system (damping blade) in two different damping configurations, and running shoes (Runfalcon from Adidas) on kinetics and kinematics during simulated on-ice landings from 0.6 m and maximal countermovement jumps on synthetic ice, and measured dampening properties of the damping blade. Seventeen participants executed trials in the six footwear conditions blinded to the different blades and acted as their own control for statistical comparison. There were no differences between the lightweight and traditional blades on the maximal vertical ground reaction force during the landing. Image analysis showed a damping effect in the damping blade that significantly decreased the landing load for all participants (mean 4.38 +/- 0.68 bodyweight) (p <= 0.006), on average between 10.1 and 14.3% compared to lightweight and traditional blades (4.87 +/- 1.01 to 5.11 +/- 0.88 bodyweight). The maximal jump height achieved was the same in all FS blades.		[Spiegl, Ondrej; Tarassova, Olga; Arndt, Anton] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Stockholm, Sweden; [Lundgren, Lina E.] Halmstad Univ, Rydberg Lab Appl Sci, Halmstad, Sweden; [Neuman, Daniel] Royal Inst Technol, Dept Phys, Stockholm, Sweden; [Arndt, Anton] Karolinska Inst, Stockholm, Sweden; [Spiegl, Ondrej] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Stockholm, Sweden								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000796905500001	34	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Abellan-Aynes, Oriol; Lopez-Plaza, Daniel; Manuel Martinez-Aranda, Luis; Alacid, Fernando								Inter-stroke steadiness: a new kinematic variable related to 200m performance in young canoeists								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2071327				2022	Traditionally, canoeing analyses have always been carried out by calculating mean values over a certain distance. However, a simple analysis of mean values in cyclic actions, such as canoe paddling, can lead to the loss of decisive data. Therefore, the objective of this study was to investigate whether the relationship between the periods of consecutive strokes can be an important aspect in all-out 200-m canoeing performance. A total of 22 young male canoeists aged 13.51 +/- 0.43 years old voluntarily participated in the present study. Lateral recordings were taken from all participants when performing an all-out 200 m to subsequently analyse the kinematic variables of time, speed and cycle frequency, length and index. The time of each stroke was calculated by the frame differencesbetween two successive paddles. Likewise, short-term and long-term steadiness of consecutive strokes were analysed. Positive correlations were observed between all-out 200-m time and inter-stroke steadiness, identifying significant associations with long-term (r approximate to 0.8; p < 0.05) and short-term steadiness (r approximate to 0.7; p < 0.05). In conclusion, the present investigation defines and identifies inter-stroke steadiness as a new original kinematic variable that might be considered for performance analysis since it seems to be a key factor in all-out 200-m canoeing.		[Abellan-Aynes, Oriol; Manuel Martinez-Aranda, Luis] Catholic Univ Murcia, Fac Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Abellan-Aynes, Oriol; Lopez-Plaza, Daniel] Catholic Univ Murcia, Int Chair Sports Med, Murcia, Spain; [Alacid, Fernando] Univ Almeria, Hlth Res Ctr, Dept Educ, Almeria, Spain; [Alacid, Fernando] Univ Almeria, Hlth Res Ctr, Dept Educ, Almeria, Spain								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000796406900001	28	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lacasa, Enrique; Canton, Albert; Brufau, Isidre; March-Llanes, Jaume; Torrents, Carlota								Rink hockey "Ok-XS". Motor behavior effects of scaling games in U8 players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			812	821	17479541221094830	10.1177/17479541221094830			JUN 2023	2023	In rink hockey, it is not usual to find proposals of mini-hockey in early competition. This study aimed to analyse the effect of the manipulation of court dimensions and the number of participants on the motor behavior of players. Twenty-four rink hockey players (three girls and 21 boys; age: 7.1 +/- 0.4 years) U8 category participated in this study. Three types of 3-min games were played twice, with 3-min breaks, following a random order: i) Four versus four (plus goalkeeper) on an official pitch (40 x 20 m); ii) Four versus four (plus goalkeeper) on a rink measuring 20 x 13 m, and iii) Two versus two (plus goalkeeper) on a court measuring 20 x 10 m. All games were video-recorded and a systematic observation instrument was used to register the actions using the Lince PLUS observation tool (v.1.2.0-2020). The individual technical-tactical behavioral variables of the court players were analysed, considering: (a) actions without the ball; (b) actions with the ball; and (c) final phase of ball possession. Statistical analysis was performed based on the Generalized Mixed Poisson Model. The results revealed that total actions were increased in both scaling situations compared to situation 1 in which young rink hockey players officially compete (S1 vs. S3; p <.001; Odds Ratio (OR) = 2,12) (S1 vs. S2; p <.001; Odds Ratio (OR) = 1,48). The results revealed that in small-sided games more affordances emerge concerning the official rules. The data obtained suggest that competition at this age on an official court (40 x 20 m) is not recommended for development of the variety of the set of individual technical-tactical behaviors.		[Lacasa, Enrique; Canton, Albert; Torrents, Carlota] Univ Lleida, Complex Syst Sports Res Grp, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia, Lleida, Spain; [Brufau, Isidre] Univ Lleida, Coach Sch Catalan Skating Federat FECAPA, Lleida, Spain; [March-Llanes, Jaume] Univ Lleida, NeuroGPA Res Grp, Lleida, Spain; [Lacasa, Enrique] Univ Lleida, Complex Syst Sports Res Grp, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia, Lleida, Spain								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000798954100001	35	Article; Article		
J	Zaragoza, Javier A.; Prather, Jessica; Florez, Christine M.; Goonan, Justin; Tinnin, Matthias R.; Secrest, Ariane H.; Taylor, Lem W.; Elsworthy, Nathan; Dalbo, Vincent J.								2019 International touch rugby world Cup: An analysis of movement demands by half and gender								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1240	1247	17479541221100185	10.1177/17479541221100185			AUG 2023	2023	Purpose Quantify and compare the movement demands of gameplay in a male only and a female only touch rugby team competing in the International Touch World Cup (2019). Methods Movement demands (male: n = 16; female: n = 15) were assessed across 16 games (male open's: 8; female open's: 8) with 10 Hz global positioning system devices. Separate linear mixed models and Cohen's effect size (ES) comparisons were used to analyze variables by half (1(st) vs. 2(nd) half) and gender (male vs. female). Results Within game comparisons revealed reductions in run distance (ES = -0.26; p = 0.003) and worst-case scenario one-minute relative distance (ES = -0.29; p = 0.019) from the first to second half in a male only team. The female only team experienced an increase in walk distance (ES = 0.42; p <0.001) and a reduction in run distance (ES = -0.27; p <0.001) from the first to second half. Gender comparisons revealed the male only team maintained a higher average speed (ES = -0.49; p = 0.006) while covering a greater run distance (ES = -1.03; p = <0.001) and sprint distance (ES = -0.98; p < 0.001) than the female only team. The male only team also achieved a higher peak speed than the female only team (ES = -0.70; p < 0.001). Conclusions Movement demands of touch games remain consistent from the first to second half in male only and female only teams. However, male only games appear to be played at a higher intensity than female only games. Results from our study suggest gender specific conditioning programs should be implemented to best prepare players for international competition.		[Zaragoza, Javier A.] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Human Performance Lab, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Prather, Jessica; Florez, Christine M.; Tinnin, Matthias R.; Secrest, Ariane H.; Taylor, Lem W.] Univ Mary Hardin Baylor, Sch Exercise & Sports Sci, Human Performance Lab, Belton, TX USA; [Goonan, Justin] Indiana Univ, Indiana Univ Rugby, Bloomington, IN USA; [Goonan, Justin] USA All Amer Rugby, Glendale, CO USA; [Elsworthy, Nathan; Dalbo, Vincent J.] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Dalbo, Vincent J.] Cent Queensland Univ, Bldg 81,Room 1-11,Bruce Highway, Rockhampton, Qld 4702, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000799669300001	17	Article; Article		
J	Yener, Numan; Glendon, Kerry; Pain, Matthew T. G.								The association between sport-related concussion and musculoskeletal injury in university rugby athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				264	270		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.001			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: The study aimed to analyse the association between Sports-Related Concussion (SRC) and Subsequent Musculoskeletal Injury (MSK) in United Kingdom university-aged rugby union players whilst considering the effects of sex, athlete playing position and injury location. Design: Retrospective cohort study. A period of 365 days with 0-90, 91-180 and 181-365 days subperiods was analysed for the following variables; MSK injury incidence, occurrence, severity, injury location, playing position and sex. Setting: Injury data was collected from the Sports Development Centre database at Loughborough University. Participants: A total of 408 injuries in 181 athletes (55 females and 126 males) were included. Results: The MSK injury incidence of SRC group was significantly higher than control and higher postSRC than pre-SRC period over a 365-day period (p=0.012 and p=0.034, respectively). The odds ratios of MSK injury incidence between groups and between periods were 1.62 (95% CI, 1.10-2.25) and 1.57 (95% CI ,1.08-2.29). A SRC was not associated with a greater time loss from a subsequent MSK injury or a specific MSK injury location. Conclusions: Athletes with a second recorded injury were more likely to sustain a MSK injury if they had experienced SRC, however, there was no indication a SRC resulted in greater time loss from a MSK injury. Crown Copyright (c) 2022 Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Yener, Numan; Glendon, Kerry; Pain, Matthew T. G.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England; [Glendon, Kerry] Loughborough Univ, Performance Ctr, Sports Med Clin, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England; [Yener, Numan] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000802168400006	30	Article; Article		
J	Mousavi, Seyed Maysam; Heidarianpour, Ali; Tavassoli, Hassan								Aerobic Exercise Training Effects on Omentin-1, Insulin Resistance, and Lipid Profile Among Male Smokers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			880	885		10.1080/02701367.2022.2070116			JUL 3 2023	2023	Background: Omentin-1 is a circulating adipokine that can serve as a biomarker for assessment of metabolic risk factors. We investigated the effect of eight weeks of aerobic exercise training on serum omentin-1, insulin resistance and lipid profile in nonsmokers and smokers. Methods: Nineteen male nonsmokers (aged 27.88 +/- 2.47 years, and with BMI of 22.69 +/- 1.77 kg.m(-2)) and twenty male smokers (aged 30.11 +/- 1.96 years, and with BMI of 23.12 +/- 1.91 kg.m(-2)) were randomly assigned into nonsmokers control group (C), nonsmokers exercise group (E), control smoker group (CS), and exercise smoker group (ES). Exercise groups participated in an eight-week aerobic exercise training program (three times a week, 20-35 min per session at 55%-70% of maximum heart rate). Serum omentin-1 and insulin values were determined by ELISA. The Homeostatic Model Assessment for Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR), glucose level and lipid profile were measured before and after the intervention. Pearson correlation test, Eta test, paired samples t-test, one and two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and post-hoc Tukey test were applied for data analysis (p < .05). Results: Aerobic exercise improved both serum omentin-1 and high lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in the exercise groups (P < .05). Also, exercise training reduced insulin, glucose, HOMA-IR, triglyceride (TG), total cholesterol (TC) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels (p < .05). Omentin-1 was significantly correlated with glucose, insulin, HOMA-IR, TG, TC, LDL-C and HDL-C in both nonsmokers and smokers. Conclusions: The findings suggest that aerobic exercise-induced changes in omentin-1 in the exercise-trained groups may be associated with the beneficial effects of exercise on reduced insulin resistance and lipid profile.		[Mousavi, Seyed Maysam; Heidarianpour, Ali; Tavassoli, Hassan] Bu Ali Sina Univ, Hamadan, Hamadan, Iran; [Heidarianpour, Ali] Bu Ali Sina Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Shahid Mostafa Ahmadi Roshan St, Hamadan, Hamadan, Iran								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000796920900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Fu, Allan C. L.; Sanders, Ross H.								The Effectiveness of Coaching the Australian Recommended Fundamental Overarm Throwing Skill Criteria for Less-Skilled Adolescents								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			886	894		10.1080/02701367.2022.2070120			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of coaching the Australian recommended fundamental overarm throwing skill criteria for less-skilled adolescents on movement competency using three-dimensional (3D) motion analysis. Methods: Less-skilled non-sports-active and skilled sports-active pupils were assigned to FMS Group (n = 97) and Sports Group (n = 129), respectively. Demographic, anthropometric, whole-body kinematic (discrete and time-series angular displacement and angular velocity data), motor coordination (segmental sequencing) and motor performance (maximum ball release speed) were analyzed. Baseline data were compared using independent T-tests and Chi-Square tests; interaction effects were assessed using repeated-measure ANOVAs. Changes in time-series kinematic data were analyzed by comparing the areas enclosed by the 95% confidence intervals. Results:There was merely a modest improvement in motor competency for the less-skilled pupils. The FMS group significantly acquired 13/75 discrete kinematic variables (p < .01) and four movement patterns but not motor coordination (p = .469) and motor performance (p = .756). Prior to the intervention, the pupils acquired 4/7 recommended skill criteria. The descriptions of another three criteria were not appropriate with no improvement in motor coordination and performance. Two new skills were identified and improved after the FMS intervention. Conclusions: The recommended skill criteria for children were not developmentally and age-appropriate for early adolescents. The use of quantitative 3D motion data provided a more precise and developmentally applicable fundamental overarm throwing criteria than content validated skill criteria. The recommended skill criteria should be modified to facilitate teachers and coaches for effective education.		[Fu, Allan C. L.; Sanders, Ross H.] Univ Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Fu, Allan C. L.] Univ Sydney, Discipline Physiotherapy, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Fac Med & Hlth, Susan Wakil Hlth Bldg, Sydney, NSW 2050, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000796414500001	36	Article; Article		
J	Washino, Sohei; Yoshitake, Yasuhide; Mankyu, Hirotoshi; Murai, Akihiko								Vertical body position during front crawl increases linearly with swimming velocity and the rate of its increase depends on individual swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2071329				2022	Vertical body position during swimming is assumed to closely affect drag. It is consequently associated with swimming velocity; however, the association between swimming velocity and vertical body position has not yet been sufficiently established. Here, we aimed to clarify how vertical body position increases with front crawl velocity and whether there are inter-individual differences in velocity effect. Eleven college-level male swimmers performed a 15 m front crawl with sustained forced maximal inspiration at various swimming velocities. The body's centre of mass (CoM) was estimated from individual digital human models with inertial parameters using inverse kinematics. The horizontal CoM velocity and vertical CoM position from the water surface were averaged for one stroke cycle as respective indexes of swimming velocity and vertical body position. Linear mixed-effects model analysis revealed that there is a positive trend between swimming velocity and vertical CoM position during front crawl across the participants. These results indicate that swimming velocity is associated with vertical body position during front crawl. Additionally, the linear mixed-effects model with random intercepts and slopes was a better fit than that with only random intercepts, indicating that there are inter-individual differences in the rate of increase in vertical body position against swimming velocity.		[Washino, Sohei; Murai, Akihiko] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Human Augmentat Res Ctr, Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan; [Yoshitake, Yasuhide] Shinshu Univ, Grad Sch Sci & Technol, Ueda, Nagano, Japan; [Yoshitake, Yasuhide] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Yoshitake, Yasuhide] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Dept Sports & Life Sci, Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan; [Mankyu, Hirotoshi] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Dept Coaching Sports & Budo, Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan; [Murai, Akihiko] Japan Sci & Technol Agcy, PRESTO, Kawaguchi, Saitama, Japan; [Washino, Sohei] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Human Augmentat Res Ctr, Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000796410700001	25	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Farjallah, Mohamed Amine; Graja, Ahmed; Ghattassi, Kais; Ben Mahmoud, Lobna; Elleuch, Henda; Ayadi, Fatma; Driss, Tarak; Jammoussi, Kamel; Sahnoun, Zouheir; Souissi, Nizar; Hammouda, Omar								Melatonin Ingestion Prevents Liver Damage and Improves Biomarkers of Renal Function Following a Maximal Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			869	879		10.1080/02701367.2022.2068792			JUL 3 2023	2023	Background: While the promotion of the beneficial effects of melatonin (MEL) ingestion on the modulation of oxidative stress is widespread, less attention is given to the biological influence that it could exert on the results of hematology and clinical chemistry parameters. This study was undertaken to assess the effects of acute MEL ingestion on these parameters during a maximal running exercise. Methods: In double blind randomized design, 12 professional soccer players [age: 17.54 +/- 0.78 yrs, body mass: 70.31 +/- 3.86 kg, body height: 1.8 +/- 0.08 m; maximal aerobic speed (MAS): 16.85 +/- 0.63 km/h; mean +/- standard deviation], all males, performed a diurnal (17:00 h +/- 30 h) running exercise test (RET) at 100% of their MAS following either MEL or placebo ingestion. Blood samples were obtained at rest and following the RET. Results: Compared to placebo, MEL intake decreased post-exercise biomarkers of liver damage (aspartate aminotransferase, p<0.001; alanine aminotransferase, p<0.001; gamma-glutamyltransferase; p<0.05) and improved post-exercise renal function markers (i.e., creatinine, p<0.001). However, lipid profile, glucose, lactate and leukocyte were not affected by MEL ingestion. Regarding the time to exhaustion, no difference was found between MEL (362.46 +/- 42.06 s) and PLA (374.54 +/- 57.97 s) conditions. Conclusion: The results of this investigation clearly attest that MEL ingestion before a maximal running exercise might protect athletes from liver damage and perturbation in renal function biomarkers. However, this study comprises an acute MEL supplementation and no assessment on chronic effects or circadian rhythm the day before was done.		[Farjallah, Mohamed Amine; Graja, Ahmed; Ghattassi, Kais; Ben Mahmoud, Lobna; Sahnoun, Zouheir; Hammouda, Omar] Univ Sfax, Sfax, Tunisia; [Farjallah, Mohamed Amine; Souissi, Nizar] Natl Sport Observ, Tunis, Tunisia; [Elleuch, Henda] Univ Sfax, CHU Hedi Chaker, Sfax, Tunisia; [Ayadi, Fatma] Univ Sfax, CHU Habib Bourguiba, Sfax, Tunisia; [Driss, Tarak; Jammoussi, Kamel; Hammouda, Omar] Paris Nanterre Univ, UPL, Paris, France; [Farjallah, Mohamed Amine] Univ Sfax, Fac Med, Res Lab, Mol Bases Human Pathol, LR19ES13, Sfax, Tunisia								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000796460400001	61	Article; Article		
J	Grinberg, Adam; Strong, Andrew; Hager, Charlotte K.								Does a knee joint position sense test make functional sense? Comparison to an obstacle clearance test following anterior cruciate ligament injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				256	263		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.004			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To evaluate knee joint position sense (JPS) among individuals with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR), cleared for return to sport, and investigate whether JPS errors are associated with outcomes of a functional obstacle clearance test (OC; downward vision occluded). Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Controlled laboratory. Participants: Thirty-four individuals following ACLR, 23 non-athletic asymptomatic controls (CTRL), 18 athletes (ATH). Main outcome measures: absolute error (AE) and variable error (VE) for weight-bearing knee JPS (target angles: 40 degrees, 651; minimal distances of the lower extremity from the obstacle (at any time and vertical clearance; two obstacle heights). Results: Larger AE (P = 0.023) and VE (P = 0.010) were observed for CTRL compared with ACLR. CTRL also had larger OC distances for the trailing leg compared with ATH (P <= 0.046) and greater variability compared to both other groups (P <= 0.033). Moderate positive correlations (R-s >= 0.408, P <= 0.029) were observed between AE for the 40 degrees angle and low-obstacle distances, for the injured ACLR leg. Conclusions: Knee JPS was worse in less-active individuals rather than following ACLR. Functional assessments like our OC test should complement isolated JPS tests, as they emphasize whole-body coordination and thus constitute more relevant estimations of proprioception. (C) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Grinberg, Adam; Strong, Andrew; Hager, Charlotte K.] Umea Univ, Physiotherapy, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Umea, Sweden; [Grinberg, Adam] Umea Univ, Biologihuset,Linnaeus Vag 9, S-90736 Umea, Sweden								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000802168400005	47	Article; Article		
J	Sancho, Igor; Morrissey, Dylan; Willy, Richard W.; Tayfur, Abdulhamit; Lascurain-Aguirrebena, Ion; Barton, Christian; Malliaras, Peter								Recreational runners with Achilles tendinopathy have clinically detectable impairments: A case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				241	247		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.002			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To confirm what impairments are present in runners with Achilles tendinopathy (AT) and explore the variance of AT severity in an adequately powered study. Design: Case-control study. Setting: Two private physiotherapy clinics in Australia and Spain. Participants: Forty-four recreational male runners with AT and 44 healthy controls matched by age, height, and weight. Main outcome measures: Demographics, activity (IPAQ-SF), pain and function (VISA-A), pain during hopping (Hop pain VAS), hopping duration, psychological factors (TSK-11, PASS20), and physical tests regarding lower-limb maximal strength and endurance. Results: Body mass index (BMI), activity, VISA-A, pain, and duration of hopping, TSK-11, PASS20, standing heel raise to failure, seated heel raise and leg extension 6RM, hip extension and abduction isometric torque were significantly different between groups (P < 0.05) with varied effect sizes (V = 0.22, d range = 0.05-4.18). 46% of AT severity variance was explained by higher BMI (13 =-0.41; p = 0.001), weaker leg curl 6RM (13 = 0.32; p = 0.009), and higher pain during hopping (13 =-0.43; p = 0.001). Conclusion: Runners with AT had lower activity levels, lower soleus strength, and were less tall. BMI, pain during hopping, and leg curl strength explained condition severity. This information, identified with clinically applicable tools, may guide clinical assessment, and inform intervention development. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sancho, Igor; Morrissey, Dylan; Tayfur, Abdulhamit] Queen Mary Univ London, Barts & London Sch Med & Dent, William Harvey Res Inst, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England; [Sancho, Igor] Univ Deusto, Physiotherapy Dept, San Sebastian, Spain; [Morrissey, Dylan; Tayfur, Abdulhamit] Barts Hlth NHS Trust, Physiotherapy Dept, London, England; [Willy, Richard W.] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Lascurain-Aguirrebena, Ion] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Dept Physiol, Fac Med & Nursing, Leioa, Spain; [Barton, Christian] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian] Univ Melbourne, St Vincents Hosp, Dept Surg, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian] La Trobe Univ, Dept Physiotherapy Podiatry & Prosthet & Orthot, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Sancho, Igor] Sanchez Toca 9, San Sebastian, Spain								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000802168400003	46	Article; Article		
J	Crespo, Miguel; Botella-Carrubi, Dolores; Jabaloyes, Jose; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael								How do International Olympic Sport Federations innovate? the use of crowdfunding and the impact of COVID-19								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			889	901	17479541221096922	10.1177/17479541221096922			JUN 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to contribute to the understanding of innovation and crowdfunding of International Olympic Sport Federations (IFs), which are the world governing bodies of their respective sports. Three research questions were addressed: the perceptions of the IFs on the implementation of their innovation programmes during the last four years (2016-2020), the impact of COVID-19 on the IFs capability to innovate, and the crowdfunding strategies of the IFs. A mixed method combining qualitative and quantitative approaches was used. An online semi-structured questionnaire which included an open answer section was completed by IFs executives (n = 22) and an analysis of the information provided by IFs through various content sources was conducted. Results showed that IFs with less funding had a significantly more innovative approach that their counterparts, that the perception of the impact of COVID-19 on the innovative capability was not unanimous, that they identified sport-specific programmes as the most innovative of all initiatives delivered during the pandemic, and that crowdfunding projects were implemented in their sport but mostly at individual and local levels. From a research perspective, since this is the first study that investigates the innovation and crowdfunding strategies of IFs, future directions include the need for further research with national and regional federations on these topics. Practical implications are suggested for IFs to deliver innovative programmes to satisfy their stakeholder needs and to consider new funding methods such as crowdfunding as part of their strategies.		[Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dept Dev, Bank Lane, London SW15 5XZ, England; [Crespo, Miguel] Univ Politecn Valencia, Cami Vera S-N, Valencia 46022, Spain; [Botella-Carrubi, Dolores] Univ Politecn Valencia, Dept Business Org, Cami Vera S-N, Valencia 46022, Spain; [Jabaloyes, Jose] Univ Politecn Valencia, Dept Appl Stat & Operat Res, Cami Vera S-N, Valencia 46022, Spain; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Calle Gasco Oliag 3, Valencia 46010, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] ITF Dev Dept, Bank Lane, London SW15 5XZ, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000798291600001	56	Article; Article		
J	Borderias, Marcos; Crespo, Miguel; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Baiget, Ernest								Comparison of the game structure and point ending during Grand Slam women's doubles tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1248	1255	17479541221098226	10.1177/17479541221098226			AUG 2023	2023	Despite the importance of doubles tennis, there is little research on this modality of the game, especially as per women play. The aim of this study was to analyse the structural variables and the way points ended in women's doubles, as well as to observe the differences between surfaces and between winning and losing teams. Twenty-one WTA doubles matches from three Grand Slams played on three different surfaces were analysed. Players played 2.0 +/- 0.3 sets, 19.9 +/- 3.2 games, 130.4 +/- 25.3 points, 0.2 +/- 0.6 tie breaks per match (PM), 9.5 +/- 1.0 games and 62.6 +/- 7.9 points per set, and 6.6 +/- 0.6 points per game (PG). 33.5% of the points ended with a winner (Wn), 43.6% with a forced error (FE) and 22.8% with an unforced error (UE), with the Wn shot being the variable that most discriminated between winner and loser teams. It was also shown that the way more points were finished was with FE, followed by Wn and UE. There were no significant differences between surfaces in structural variables or point ending. These results showed that in women's doubles playing Wn shots and avoiding UE is crucial to successful performance, so that aggressive play and taking the initiative in the game has a positive influence in the result.		[Borderias, Marcos; Baiget, Ernest] Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia, Sports Performance, Av Estadi 12-22, Barcelona, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dev Dept, Valencia, Spain; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Valencia, Spain; [Borderias, Marcos] Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia, Sports Performance, Av Estadi 12-22, Barcelona, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000797679100001	36	Article; Article		
J	Casals, Marti; Daunis-i-Estadella, Pepus								Violinboxplot and enhanced radar plot as components of effective graphical dashboards: An educational example of sports analytics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			572	583	17479541221099638	10.1177/17479541221099638			APR 2023	2023	A statistical graph can offer an alternative compelling approach to statistical thinking that focuses on important concepts rather than procedural formulas. Nowadays, visualizing multidimensional/multivariate data is essential but can also be challenging. In sport analytics, the exploration and descriptive analysis of data using visualization techniques has increased in recent years to, for example, describe possible patterns and uncertainty of player performance. These visualization techniques have been used so far with different purposes by various professionals in the sport industry, such as managers, coaches, scouters, technical staff, journalists, and researchers. The abuse of graphs, such as the radar plot, and their frequent misinterpretation in the world of sports and possible implications for coaching decisions has led us to create more informative and accurate visualizations. Here, we propose new, more educational visualizations we have termed violinboxplots and enhanced radar plot for their use in the sports analytics and other fields. These allow us to visualize, besides distribution and statistical summaries, the extreme data values that can be fundamental in performance studies and allow us to benchmark.		[Casals, Marti] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia UVic UCC, Fac Med, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Barcelona, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia UVic UCC, Sport Performance Anal Res Grp, Barcelona, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Daunis-i-Estadella, Pepus] Univ Girona, Dept Comp Sci Appl Math & Stat, Girona, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia UVic UCC, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Barcelona, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000797680500001	52	Article; Article		
J	Thompson, Steve W.; Olusoga, Pete; Rogerson, David; Ruddock, Alan; Barnes, Andrew								"Is it a slow day or a go day?": The perceptions and applications of velocity-based training within elite strength and conditioning								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	4			1217	1228	17479541221099641	10.1177/17479541221099641			AUG 2023	2023	Velocity-based training (VBT) is a contemporary prescriptive, programming, and testing tool commonly utilised in strength and conditioning (S&C). Over recent years, there has been an influx of peer-reviewed literature investigating several different applications (e.g. load-velocity profiling, velocity loss, load manipulation, and reliability of technology) of VBT. The procedures implemented in research, however, do not always reflect the practices within applied environments. The aim of this study, therefore, was to investigate the perceptions and applications of VBT within elite S&C to enhance contextual understanding and develop appropriate avenues of practitioner-focused research. Fourteen high-performance S&C coaches participated in semi-structured interviews to discuss their experiences of implementing VBT into their practices. Reflexive thematic analysis was adopted, following an inductive and realist approach. Three central organising themes emerged: Technology, applications, and reflections. Within these central themes, higher order themes consisting of drivers for buying technology; programming, testing, monitoring, and feedback; and benefits, drawbacks, and future uses also emerged. Practitioners reported varied drivers and applications of VBT, often being dictated by simplicity, environmental context, and personal preferences. Coaches perceived VBT to be a beneficial tool yet were cognizant of the drawbacks and challenges in certain settings. VBT is a flexible tool that can support and aid several aspects of S&C planning and delivery, with coaches valuing the impact it can have on training environments, objective prescriptions, tracking player readiness, and programme success.		[Thompson, Steve W.; Rogerson, David; Ruddock, Alan; Barnes, Andrew] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, A212 Collegiate Hall, Sheffield S10 2BP, S Yorkshire, England; [Olusoga, Pete] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Behav Sci & Appl Psychol, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Olusoga, Pete] Inland Norway Univ Appl Sci, Elverum, Norway; [Thompson, Steve W.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, A212 Collegiate Hall, Sheffield S10 2BP, S Yorkshire, England								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000797681200001	63	Article; Article		
J	MartinezAguirre-Betolaza, A.; Jacka, K.; Sargent, D.; Paterson, C.; Stone, K. J.; Stoner, L.; Broomfield-Gull, A.; Fryer, S.								Leg fidgeting enhances blood lactate clearance following maximal anaerobic exercise								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			923	927	17479541221097800	10.1177/17479541221097800			JUN 2023	2023	Low intensity active recovery such as walking appears to be optimal for the clearance of blood lactate (BLa) concentration following high intensity exercise. However, within a sporting context, competition rules or procedural impracticalities often mean walking is not possible. Leg fidgeting during sitting has been shown to increase leg blood flow, which may impact BLa clearance. The purpose of this study was to determine whether leg fidgeting stimulates BLa clearance following high intensity exercise. Using a randomized crossover design, fifteen (7 female) university athletes performed a 30 s Wingate test followed by 15 min of either passive seated rest, or seated leg fidgeting. BLa, heart rate (HR) and rate of perceived exertion (RPE) were assessed pre, immediately post and post 3, 6, 9, 12, and 15 min. There was a significant (p < 0.05) condition x time interaction for BLa. Post hoc analysis found that leg fidgeting caused a significantly greater reduction in BLa compared to sitting at post 6 (fidget 9.9 +/- 2.6 vs. sitting 9.9 +/- 2.2 mmol center dot L-1), 9 (9.3 +/- 2.3 vs. 9.9 +/- 2.1 mmol center dot L-1), 12 (8.8 +/- 2.3 vs. 9.5 +/- 2.2 mmol center dot L-1) and 15 (7.6 +/- 2.1 vs. 8.6 +/- 2.2 mmol center dot L-1) min respectively. Overall, leg fidgeting improved BLa clearance by 10% more than passive recovery. No significant interactions were found for HR or RPE. Following high intensity exercise, leg fidgeting may be considered a useful alternative to whole body active recovery when walking is not permitted.		[MartinezAguirre-Betolaza, A.] Univ Deusto, Fac Educ & Sport, Bilbao, Spain; [Jacka, K.; Sargent, D.; Paterson, C.; Stone, K. J.; Broomfield-Gull, A.; Fryer, S.] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Stoner, L.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Sport & Exercise, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [MartinezAguirre-Betolaza, A.] Univ Deusto, Fac Educ & Sport, Bilbao, Spain								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000797678800001	12	Article; Article		
J	Mavilidi, Myrto F.; Pesce, Caterina; Mazzoli, Emiliano; Bennett, Sue; Paas, Fred; Okely, Anthony D.; Howard, Steven J.								Effects of Cognitively Engaging Physical Activity on Preschool Children's Cognitive Outcomes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			839	852		10.1080/02701367.2022.2059435			JUL 3 2023	2023	Research combining physical activity with the training of cognitive skills such as executive functions is emerging as a novel and fruitful intervention approach for children. Purpose: This study aimed to examine the impact of an intervention program including cognitively engaging physical activity on preschool children's cognitive outcomes and physical activity. Methods: Children (N = 144, 65 female; M-age = 4.41 years, SD = 0.61), randomly assigned to one of three groups: cognitively engaging physical activity (CPA; i.e., storytelling, cognitive activities, and motor tasks, n = 55), cognition (i.e., storytelling and cognitive activities without motor tasks, n = 48), or control (i.e., traditional storytelling, n = 41). Sessions lasted approximately 17 minutes, conducted twice a week, for 6 weeks. Children's executive function, self-regulation, and related outcomes (i.e., numeracy) were assessed at baseline and again-along with perceived enjoyment-at the end of the program. Accelerometers measured children's physical activity during each session. Teachers completed a logbook for each session, and two fidelity checks per preschool took place by the researcher. Main analyses used linear mixed models adjusted for covariates (age, sex) and clustering at the preschool level. Results: Results showed no significant group by time interaction for executive function, self-regulation, numeracy, enjoyment. During the sessions, children in the CPA group were more physically active than children in the cognition and control groups. Conclusion: While we did not find the expected amplified cognitive benefits, making storytelling more active has the potential to meet two needs (increase cognitive stimulation and physical activity levels) in one deed.		[Mavilidi, Myrto F.; Bennett, Sue; Paas, Fred; Okely, Anthony D.; Howard, Steven J.] Univ Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW, Australia; [Pesce, Caterina] Univ Rome Foro Ital, Rome, Italy; [Mazzoli, Emiliano] Deakin Univ, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Paas, Fred] Erasmus Univ, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Mavilidi, Myrto F.] Univ Wollongong, Early Start Sch Educ, Northfields Ave, Keiraville, NSW 2522, Australia								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000791853300001	73	Article; Article		
J	Papadakis, Zacharias; Grandjean, Peter W.; Forsse, Jeffrey S.								Effects of Acute Exercise on Cardiac Autonomic Response and Recovery in Non-Dialysis Chronic Kidney Disease patients								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			812	825		10.1080/02701367.2022.2057401			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Heart rate variability (HRV) has gained acceptance as a key marker of cardiovascular health. We compared HRV responses after continuous moderate-intensity exercise (CMIE) and high-intensity interval exercise (HIIE) matched for intensity and duration in individuals with midspectrum chronic kidney disease (CKD). Methods: Twenty men and women (age 62.0 +/- 10 yrs.) diagnosed with CKD stages G3a and G3b participated in a 2 (condition) x 4 (time point) repeated cross-over measures design study. HRV time-domain indices were based on the standard deviation of all NN intervals (SDNN) and the square root of the mean of the sum of the squares of differences between adjacent NN intervals (RMSSD) and frequency domain. High-frequency (HF), low-frequency (LF), total power (TP) were examined. CMIE consisted of treadmill walking for 30 minutes at a 2% incline and speed corresponding to 60%-65% of reserve volume of oxygen (VO2R). HIIE included five intervals of 3 minutes at 90% of VO2R and 2 minutes at 20% VO2R intervals. Conditions were designed to be of the same average intensity (60% to 65% of VO2R) and caloric expenditure (similar to 144 kcal). Results: Immediately following exercise SDNN, RMSSD, HF, LF, and TP were significantly lower compared to before exercise (p <.05). HRV responses were not different between conditions and conditions X time (p >.05). Conclusions: Thirty minutes of either CMIE or HIIE decreased HRV indices, pointing to an autonomic imbalance favoring vagal mediation. HRV's responses regarding HIIE were no different from CMIE, therefore, from an autonomic function point of view this similarity may be useful for CKD exercise prescription and programming.		[Papadakis, Zacharias] Barry Univ, Miami Shores, FL 33161 USA; [Grandjean, Peter W.] Univ Mississippi, University, MS 38677 USA; [Forsse, Jeffrey S.] Baylor Univ, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Papadakis, Zacharias] Barry Univ, Human Performance Lab Sport & Exercise Sci, 11300 NE 2nd Ave, Miami Shores, FL 33161 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000791849200001	94	Article; Article		
J	Jannas-Vela, Sebastian; Bustamante, Alvaro; Zbinden-Foncea, Hermann; Penailillo, Luis								Plasma α-Actin as an Early Marker of Muscle Damage After Repeated Bouts of Eccentric Cycling								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			853	860		10.1080/02701367.2022.2060926			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: This study aimed to examine the changes in skeletal muscle (SM) alpha-actin, myoglobin (Mb) and hydroxyproline (HP) in plasma and other indirect markers of muscle damage after repeated bouts of eccentric cycling. Methods: Ten healthy men (23.3 +/- 2.8 years) performed two 30-min eccentric cycling bouts at 100% of maximal concentric power output (230.7 +/- 36.9 W) separated by 2 weeks (ECC1 and ECC2). Maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) peak force of the knee extensor muscles, muscle soreness (SOR), pain pressure threshold (PPT) and plasma levels of SM alpha-actin, Mb, and HP were measured before, 0.5, 3, 24-168 h after each cycling bout. Results: MVIC peak force decreased on average 10.7 +/- 13.1% more after ECC1 than ECC2. SOR was 80% greater and PPT was 12-14% lower after ECC1 than ECC2. Plasma SM alpha-actin levels increased at 0.5, 3, and 24-72 h after ECC1 (26.1-47.9%), and SM alpha-actin levels at 24 h after ECC1 were associated with muscle strength loss (r = -0.56, P = .04) and SOR (r = 0.88, P = .001). Mb levels increased at 0.5, 3, and 24 h after ECC1 (200-502%). However, Mb levels at 24 h after ECC1were not associated with muscle strength loss and SOR. HP levels remained unchanged after ECC1. ECC2 did not increase SM alpha-actin, Mb and HP levels. Conclusion: Our results indicate that alpha-actin could be used as a potential marker for the early identification of SM damage due to its early appearance in plasma and its association with other indirect markers of muscle damage.		[Jannas-Vela, Sebastian; Bustamante, Alvaro; Zbinden-Foncea, Hermann] Univ Finis Terrae, Santiago, Chile; [Jannas-Vela, Sebastian] Univ OHiggins, Rancagua, Chile; [Penailillo, Luis] Univ Andres Bello, Santiago, Chile; [Penailillo, Luis] Univ Andres Bello, Exercise & Rehabil Sci Lab, Sch Phys Therapy, Fac Rehabil Sci, Santiago, Chile								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000791854200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Goh, Alvin M.; Drinkwater, Eric J.; Harms, Craig A.; Scanlan, Mark; Newton, Robert U.; Ma'ayah, Fadi								Characteristics of goals scored in open play at the 2017 and 2018 Australian national cerebral palsy football championship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			858	866	17479541221095941	10.1177/17479541221095941			JUN 2023	2023	Despite increasing popularity of cerebral palsy (CP) football (para football) worldwide, there are limited data available describing effective attacking strategies that lead to goals. The purpose of this research was to investigate the most frequent methods of ball repossession, distribution and movement patterns that successfully led to goals scored in open play of CP football. Video footage of all goals (n = 167) during the Australian National CP Football Championships in 2017 and 2018 were analysed using SportsCode software. Most goals (89.8%) were scored from open play, with the most effective mode of ball delivery identified as being direct play, of four or less passes, to create an opportunity to score. More goals were scored during the first half of games (54.9%), with a majority of goals (67.1%) scored from a region that encompasses the entire penalty area (Zone 1). The findings from the research conclude that tactically, coaches could capitalise on restarts by moving the ball quickly in four or less passes into the middle of the penalty area, to increase their chances of scoring goals in CP football.		[Goh, Alvin M.; Scanlan, Mark; Newton, Robert U.; Ma'ayah, Fadi] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Human Performance, Joondalup, Australia; [Drinkwater, Eric J.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Harms, Craig A.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Arts & Humanities, Ctr Psychol & Criminol, Joondalup, Australia; [Ma'ayah, Fadi] Curtin Univ, Sch Educ, Perth, WA, Australia; [Goh, Alvin M.] Edith Cowan Univ, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000797529100001	39	Article; Article		
J	Colomar, Joshua; Corbi, Francisco; Baiget, Ernest								Force-Time Curve Variable Outcomes Following a Simulated Tennis Match in Junior Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			245	252		10.52082/jssm.2022.245			JUN 2022	2022	This study examined the alterations induced by a simulated tennis competition on maximal isometric voluntary contraction (MVC), peak rate of force development (PRFD) and rate of force devel-opment (RFD) at different stages of contraction. Twenty junior tennis players performed an 80-minute simulated tennis match and two (pre and post) muscular performance tests. Variables tested included MVC, PRFD and RFD at 50, 100, 150 and 200 ms while performing a 90?? shoulder internal rotation (IR90), 90?? shoulder external rotation (ER90), shoulder horizontal adduction (ADD), shoulder horizontal abduction (ABD) and isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP). Serve velocity (SV) was also registered. No significant changes were found regarding MVC, PRFD or SV. Non-significant moderate effect size (ES) towards a decrease in the IR90 RFD at 50 ms could be observed (16%; ES = 0.5) along-side an increase in the ADD and IMTP RFD at 150 ms (-15.8%, -8.2%; ES =-0.53,-0.54) and IMTP RFD at 200 ms (-13%; ES =-0.54). Results indicate that MVC, PRFD, RFD at different time intervals and SV are unaltered following an 80-minute simulated match, possibly due to insufficient alterations triggered on key factors affecting the tested variables.		[Colomar, Joshua; Baiget, Ernest] Univ Barcelona UB, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Cent Univ Catalonia, Univ Vic, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Vic, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Cent Univ Catalonia, Univ Vic, Sport Performance Anal Res Grp SPARG, Vic, Spain; [Corbi, Francisco] Univ Lleida UdL, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Lleida, Spain; [Colomar, Joshua] Avinguda Estadi 14, Barcelona 08038, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000797016800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Farley, T.; Barry, E.; Bester, K.; Barbero, A.; Thoroughgood, J.; De Medici, A.; Sylvester, R.; Wilson, M. G.								Poor cervical proprioception as a risk factor for concussion in professional male rugby union players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				211	217		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.03.010			MAY 2022	2022	Background: Concussion is one of the most common injuries in male professional Rugby Union (???rugby???) and accounts for significant time loss from training and competition. Despite the most recent Concussion in Sport Group consensus statement recommending a focus on the identification of modifiable risk factors, limited evidence for their existence is available. Objective: To investigate the association between cervical proprioception and concussion incidence in a group of professional male rugby players over the course of a full season. Methods: 165 players were assessed at pre-, mid- and end of season time points using the Cervical Joint Position Error Test (CJPET). Associations with diagnosed concussion injuries are presented as incidence rate ratios with 95% confidence intervals. We present the Incidence Rate Ratios (IRR) for a 10% increase in each variable and compared results against concussion using match minutes to account for risk exposure. Results: During the study period, 45 concussions were incurred by 44 players [or 19.7 concussions per 1000 player-match hours]. There was a significant association between right rotation repositioning error and concussion, with a 5% increase in concussion rate for each 10% increase in gross right rotation error (P 1/4 0.021). Conclusion: Poor gross right rotation repositioning error is a modifiable intrinsic risk factor for concussion in professional male rugby players. Interventions to improve proprioceptive function may act as an effective method for reducing concussion incidence in this population. ?? 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Farley, T.; Sylvester, R.; Wilson, M. G.] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth ISEH, London, England; [Barry, E.] Georgia Rugby Federat, Tbilisi, Georgia; [Farley, T.; Barry, E.; Bester, K.; Barbero, A.; Thoroughgood, J.; De Medici, A.; Wilson, M. G.] UCL, Div Surg & Intervent Sci, London, England; [Sylvester, R.] Natl Hosp Neurol & Neurosurg, London, England; [Farley, T.] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth ISEH, London, England								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000797765700002	40	Article; Article		
J	Gencoglu, Cebrail; Ulupinar, Suleyman; ozbay, Serhat; Ouergui, Ibrahim; Franchini, Emerson								Reliability and Validity of the Kickboxing Anaerobic Speed Test								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			715	724		10.1080/02701367.2022.2048783			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: This study investigated the test-retest reliability and discriminant validity of the Kickboxing Anaerobic Speed Test (KAST) and established a comparison with the maximal cycling sprint test (MCST). Methods: Forty-two male kickboxing athletes (18 elite and 24 sub-elite) participated in this study. Kickboxers performed the tests in both single and multiple forms. The KAST(single) was composed of kicks and punches, performed as quickly as possible until 5 reps of a 4 techniques' combination (i.e., straight left punch, right-roundhouse kick, straight right punch, and left-roundhouse kick) were completed. The MCSTsingle was composed by a single 6-s maximal effort. The KAST(multiple) was performed using 5 sequential sets of the single form following a 10s rest interval between sets. The MCSTmultiple was performed using 5 x 6 s repeated cycling efforts with 10s rest intervals. The tests and retests were carried out on separate occasions. To establish the test's discriminatory capability, elite and sub-elite athletes were compared. Results: All tests' performance scores showed excellent relative and absolute reliability (ICC > 0.900, SEM <= 0.98 s for KASTs and <= 0.74 W center dot kg(-1) for MCST tests). Significant correlations between the identical versions were "large" (r > 0.70). Receiving operating characteristic analyses indicated that the KASTs and cycling tests were able to effectively discriminate between elite and sub-elite kickboxers. Additionally, the findings showed that KAST(single), MCSTsingle, KAST(multiple), and KAST(multiple) correctly classified the groups by 78.6%, 73.6%, 88.1%, and 78.6%, respectively. Conclusions: This study supported the test-retest reliability and the discriminant validity of the KAST(single) and KAST(multiple) to evaluate kickboxing athletes.		[Gencoglu, Cebrail; Ulupinar, Suleyman; ozbay, Serhat] Erzurum Tech Univ, Erzurum, Turkey; [Ouergui, Ibrahim] Univ Jendouba, Jendouba, Tunisia; [Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Gencoglu, Cebrail] Erzurum Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, TR-25200 Erzurum, Turkey								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000790186000001	37	Article; Article		
J	Jooste, J.; Wolfson, S.; Kruger, A.								Irrational Performance Beliefs and Mental Well-Being Upon Returning to Sport During the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Test of Mediation by Intolerance of Uncertainty								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			802	811		10.1080/02701367.2022.2056117			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: This study examined the extent to which irrational performance beliefs and intolerance of uncertainty co-occur in relation to mental well-being among a sample of athletes and coaches (N = 94, M age = 31.99, SD = 12.81) upon their return to sport following COVID-19 disruptions. Methods and Results: Despite the parity in views, independent samples t-test results identified three significant differences in the tested variables between athletes and coaches, which suggested that athletes are more likely to entertain depreciative thoughts about performances and react more aversively to uncertainty, whereas coaches reported a better mental well-being state. Pearson correlation coefficient analysis confirmed a significant positive relationship between composite irrational performance beliefs and intolerance of uncertainty scores, with both these variables being inversely related to mental well-being. Results from a simple atemporal mediation analysis using the PROCESS macro verified that intolerance of uncertainty fully mediated the adverse effect irrational beliefs exert on mental well-being. Conclusion: Sports psychology practitioners within the framework of REBT are advised to explore their orientation of modifying irrational beliefs aligned to clients' perceptions and tolerance of uncertainty in sport through the inclusion of IU-specific awareness and behavioral experiments.		[Jooste, J.; Wolfson, S.] Northumbria Univ, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, Tyne & Wear, England; [Kruger, A.] North West Univ, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Jooste, J.] Northumbria Univ, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, Tyne & Wear, England								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000790266700001	72	Article; Article		
J	Fuchs, Philip X.; Hsieh, Chang-Hsin; Chen, Wei-Han; Tang, Yen-Shan; Fiolo, Nicholas J.; Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang								Sensor number in simplified insole layouts and the validity of ground reaction forces during locomotion								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2057354				2022	Research attempted to validate simplified insoles with a reduced number of sensors to facilitate clinical application. However, the ideal sensor number is yet to be determined. The purpose was to investigate the validity of vertical ground reaction forces in various simplified pressure sensor insoles and to identify an optimal compromise between sensor number and measurement performance. A Kistler force plate (1000 Hz) and 99-sensor Pedar-X insole (100 Hz) obtained force data of 15 participants during walking and jogging. Eight simplified insole layouts (3-17 sensors) were simulated. Layout performances were expressed as Pearson's correlation coefficients (r) with force plate as reference and coefficient of variation. Differences were assessed via repeated-measures ANOVA as partial eta square (eta(2)(p)) at p < .05. All layouts correlated with the force plate (r = .70-.99, p < .01). All layout performances were higher in jogging than in walking by r = +.07 +/- .04 (eta(2)(p)=.28-.66,p < .05). The three- and five-sensor layouts yielded the lowest correlation (r = .70-.88) and the highest coefficient of variation (11-22%). Layout performances improved constantly from 7 to 11 sensors. The optimal compromise between simplification and measurement performance, quantified via change in correlation per sensor number, was found in the 11-sensor layout, recommendable for practical settings to improve monitoring and adjusting protocols.		[Fuchs, Philip X.; Hsieh, Chang-Hsin; Chen, Wei-Han; Tang, Yen-Shan; Fiolo, Nicholas J.; Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, Taipei, Taiwan; [Fuchs, Philip X.] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport & Exercise, Salzburg, Austria; [Chen, Wei-Han] Univ Taipei, Grad Inst Sports Equipment Technol, Taipei, Taiwan; [Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, Taipei, Taiwan								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000789807700001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Bourdillon, Nicolas; Yazdani, Sasan; Vesin, Jean-Marc; Schmitt, Laurent; Millet, Gregoire P.								RMSSD Is More Sensitive to Artifacts Than Frequency-Domain Parameters: Implication in Athletes? Monitoring								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			260	266		10.52082/jssm.2022.260			JUN 2022	2022	Easy-to-use and accurate heart rate variability (HRV) assessments are essential in athletes??? follow-up, but artifacts may lead to erroneous analysis. Artifact detection and correction are the purpose of extensive literature and implemented in dedicated analysis programs. However, the effects of number and/or magnitude of artifacts on various time-or frequency-domain parameters remain unclear. The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of artifacts on HRV parameters. Root mean square of the successive differences (RMSSD), standard deviation of the normal to normal inter beat intervals (SDNN), power in the low-(LF) and high-frequency band (HF) were computed from two 4-min RR recordings in 178 participants in both supine and standing positions, respectively. RRs were modified by (1) randomly adding or subtracting 10, 30, 50 or 100 ms to the successive RRs; (2) a single artifact was manually inserted; (3) artifacts were automatically corrected from signal naturally containing artifacts. Finally, RR recordings were analyzed before and after automatic detection-correction of artifacts. Modifying each RR by 10, 30, 50 and 100 ms randomly did not significantly change HRV parameters (range-6%, +6%, supine). In contrast, by adding a single artifact, RMSSD increased by 413% and 269%, SDNN by 54% and 47% in supine and standing positions, respectively. LF and HF changed only between-3% and +8% (supine and standing) in the artifact condition. When more than 0.9% of the signal contained artifacts, RMSSD was significantly biased, whilst when more than 1.4% of the signal contained artifacts LF and HF were significantly biased. RMSSD and SDNN were more sensitive to a single artifact than LF and HF. This indicates that, when using RMSSD only, a single artifact may induce erroneous interpretation of HRV. Therefore, we recommend using both time-and frequency-domain parameters to minimize the errors in the diagnoses of health status or fatigue in athletes.		[Bourdillon, Nicolas; Millet, Gregoire P.] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; [Bourdillon, Nicolas; Yazdani, Sasan] Be care SA, Renens, Switzerland; [Vesin, Jean-Marc] Ecole Polytech Fed, EPFL, Appl Signal Proc Grp, ASPG, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; [Schmitt, Laurent] Natl Ctr Nordic Ski Res & Performance, Premanon, France; [Bourdillon, Nicolas] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; [Bourdillon, Nicolas] Be care SA, Renens, Switzerland								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000797012300001	26	Article; Article		
J	Ouergui, Ibrahim; Delleli, Slaheddine; Chtourou, Hamdi; Selmi, Okba; Bouassida, Anissa; Bouhlel, Ezdine; Franchini, Emerson								Diurnal Variation of Specific Tests' Performance and Related Psychological Aspects in Young Judo Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			687	697		10.1080/02701367.2022.2043547			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: This study investigated the effects of time-of-day on judo athletes' performances and the associated psychological variables and perceived exertion following judo-specific tests. Methods: Twelve male judo athletes (age: 16 +/- 1 years) performed in a randomized and counterbalanced order the special judo fitness test (SJFT), the judo physical fitness test (JPFT), the dynamic and isometric judogi chin-up tests in the morning (8:00 a.m), midday (12:00 p.m), and afternoon (5:00 p.m). Oral temperature and psychological variables [profile of mood state (POMS), Hooper questionnaire, total quality of recovery (TQR)] were assessed before and after the tests, and ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) and the physical activity enjoyment scale (PACES) were assessed only after the tests. Results: RPE score was higher in the morning compared to the afternoon after the JPFT (d = 0.38, p = .045). PACES after JPFT was higher in the morning compared to midday (d = 0.85, p < .001). The isometric and dynamic performances during chin-up tests were higher in the afternoon compared to the morning (d = 0.38, p = .048 and 0.047, respectively). Also, oral temperature was higher in the afternoon compared to the morning (d = 0.41, p = .050) and the midday (p = .047) for dynamic test, while TQR, well-being indices, and POMS did not differ according to time-of-day (p > .05). Conclusions: These results suggest that dynamic and isometric judo chin-up tests are time-of-day dependent with higher performance recorded in the afternoon than in the morning. However, performances in the JPFT and SJFT were not time-of-day dependent.		[Ouergui, Ibrahim; Delleli, Slaheddine; Selmi, Okba; Bouassida, Anissa] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Kef, Kef 7100, Tunisia; [Chtourou, Hamdi] Univ Sfax, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Sfax, Sfax, Tunisia; [Chtourou, Hamdi] Observ Natl Sport, UR18JS01, Activite Phys Sport & Sante, Tunis, Tunisia; [Bouhlel, Ezdine] Univ Sousse, Fac Med Ibn El Jazzar, UR12ES06, Lab Physiol Exercice & Physiopathol Integre Mol B, Sousse 4000, Tunisia; [Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Martial Arts & Combat Sports Res Grp, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Ouergui, Ibrahim] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Kef, Kef 7100, Tunisia								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000789742700001	71	Article; Article		
J	Lindsay, Riki S.; Komar, John; Chow, Jia Yi; Larkin, Paul; Spittle, Michael								Is Prescription of Specific Movement Form Necessary for Optimal Skill Development? A Nonlinear Pedagogy Approach								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			793	801		10.1080/02701367.2022.2054925			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Nonlinear Pedagogy (NLP) proposes that skill development is a nonlinear process, advocating the integration of variability into practice to facilitate individualized movement patterns. However, the influence of a NLP for skills that emphasize a specific movement form is relatively unknown. This study aimed to investigate the impact of a NLP approach when learning a movement form based skill. Method: Sixteen beginners in the power clean (PC), were randomly assigned into a linear pedagogy (LP) condition receiving instructions that prescribed explicit movement form, and a NLP condition presented with analogy-based instructions and two task constraints. Both conditions completed seven lessons across 4-weeks. Results: There were no significant differences in the quantity of exploration, with both conditions demonstrating a similar range of movement patterns. These findings were coupled with a significant improvement in performance accuracy (reduced forward movement of the barbell; F x D) for both conditions. No significant differences were detected in the distribution of barbell trajectory types, with type one, three and four trajectories being exhibited to a similar degree in both conditions. Conclusion: Findings from this study suggests both NLP and LP pedagogies can successfully develop movement form based skills. Overall, both NLP and LP approaches appear to positively influence skill development. These findings have important implications for practitioners suggesting that deviations from instructed technique in learners (i.e., LP approach) do not negatively impact performance. However, further research is needed to determine whether these approaches can more effectively facilitate learners' search for movement solutions that "fit" their individual abilities.		[Lindsay, Riki S.; Larkin, Paul; Spittle, Michael] Victoria Univ, Ballarat Rd, Melbourne, Vic 8001, Australia; [Komar, John; Chow, Jia Yi] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore; [Lindsay, Riki S.] Victoria Univ, Ballarat Rd, Melbourne, Vic 8001, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000789738200001	32	Article; Article		
J	De Blaiser, Cedric; Roosen, Philip; Vermeulen, Stefan; De Bleecker, Camilla; De Ridder, Roel								The development of a clinical screening tool to evaluate unilateral landing performance in a healthy population								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				309	315		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.012			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To develop a clinical tool to evaluate unilateral landing quality in a healthy population. The reliability of the novel tool was evaluated, and the influence of gender and leg-dominance was investigated. Design: An experimental study for developing a test protocol, scoring criteria, and scoring method, based on observable landing errors, for the novel Unilateral Landing Error Scoring System (ULESS). Setting: Controlled lab environment. Participants: Healthy participants (25 male and 25 female) performed the ULESS. Main outcome measures: The ULESS was scored with video analysis. Unilateral landing performance, measured with the ULESS, was compared to bilateral landing performance. Results: Sixteen items to assess trunk, pelvic, and lower limb movement patterns during a unilateral landing task resulted in a composite score on an interval scale. Moderate to excellent intra- and inter-tester reliability (ICC(2,1) = 0.77-0.90) was determined. The ULESS was able to identify moderate to poor unilateral landing quality in subjects with good to excellent bilateral landing quality. No main effect of gender (p = 0.19) or leg-dominance (p = 0.65) on ULESS scores was found. Conclusion: Moderate to excellent reliability can be expected when using the newly developed protocol and scoring method. The ULESS is feasible to perform with limited materials. (C) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[De Blaiser, Cedric; Roosen, Philip; Vermeulen, Stefan; De Bleecker, Camilla; De Ridder, Roel] Univ Ghent, Dept Rehabil Sci, Campus UZ Gent, Ghent, Belgium; [De Blaiser, Cedric] Univ Ghent, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Campus UZ Gent,Corneel Heymanslaan 10,2B3, BE-9000 Ghent, Belgium								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000811342800003	43	Article; Article		
J	Wilke, Jan; Tenberg, Sarah; Groneberg, David								Prognostic factors of muscle injury in elite football players: A media-based, retrospective 5-year analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				305	308		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.05.009			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: Motor function has been demonstrated to be weakly predictive for the occurrence of muscle injury in team sports. This study examined the value of non-motor prognostic factors in elite football (soccer). Design: Retrospective cohort study. Setting: Analysis of a public data register (Transfermarkt.com). Participants: 1148 players of 38 German and English first-division football clubs. Main outcome measures: Binary logistic regression examining the association of prognostic factors (age, height, weight, BMI, playing position, market value, history of injury, number of played matches and minutes) and time-loss muscle injuries sustained during five consecutive seasons (2014/2015 to 2018/2019). Results: A total of 1722 muscle injuries were observed in 619 players. History of general musculoskeletal injury (OR 5.3, 95% CI 3.8-7.5), playing position (OR 2.4-2.5), market value (OR 2.3, 95% CI 1.7-3.1), and history of muscle injury (OR 1.6, 95% CI 1.1-2.2) were associated with muscle injury. Sub-analyses revealed location-specific patterns. Playing position was not predictive for adductor injury and, except for one weak association (defender vs. goalkeeper: OR 1.05, 95% CI 0.42-2.62), the same applied to the calf. Contrary to other locations, thigh re-injury was not predicted by previous muscle injury. Conclusions: Non-motor factors display significant associations with injury risk in elite football players. Conditioning coaches may use this information to improve primary and secondary prevention, while scouting departments may benefit during recruitment. (C) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Wilke, Jan; Groneberg, David] Goethe Univ, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Sci, Theodor Stern Kai 7, D-60590 Frankfurt, Germany; [Tenberg, Sarah] Univ Appl Sci Trier, Dept Comp Sci Therapy Sci, D-54293 Trier, Germany; [Wilke, Jan] Goethe Univ, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Sci, Theodor Stern Kai 7, D-60590 Frankfurt, Germany								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000811342800002	20	Article; Article		
J	Tsuda, Emi; Wyant, James; Elliott, Eloise; Han, Jung Hun; Mackey, Olivia								Development and Implementation of Physical Education State-Level Accountability for Student Learning and Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			748	759		10.1080/02701367.2022.2053042			JUL 3 2023	2023	Background: The purpose of this study was to explore the development and implementation of state level accountability policy and systems. Methods: The study was conducted using an explanatory multiple-case study design using the SWOT analysis (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities to improve, and threats). Ten leaders from three states participated in the study (State A n = 3; State B n = 4; State C n = 3 [female n = 1, 1, 2, respectively]). Semi-structured interviews and document analysis were used to collect data. The data was analyzed using the structural narrative analysis method. Results: All ten state leaders discussed that the high obesity rate within the state was one of the motives of adopting an accountability system. The commonly identified strengths of the system were having legislation and using existing resources to help facilitate the process. Some weaknesses included the lack of accessibility to individual data at the state level and the absence of a reflexive cycle for future improvement. For opportunities to improve, all state leaders mentioned having an assessment system enhanced the status of physical education in schools. Consistently discussed threats were turnover of associated personnel and teacher pushbacks. Conclusion: This study revealed that there are several factors to consider making an accountability policy and system meaningful and valuable. Physical educators are all policy actors. Everyone has a responsibility to act as stewards of the field to be critically reflective in what we do, and to understand the why behind our actions.		[Tsuda, Emi; Wyant, James; Elliott, Eloise; Han, Jung Hun; Mackey, Olivia] West Virginia Univ, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Tsuda, Emi] West Virginia Univ, Coll Phys Act & Sport Sci, Room 252 CPASS Bldg,375 Birch St, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000788827300001	40	Article; Article		
J	Martin, Marco; Rampinini, Ermanno; Bosio, Andrea; Azzalin, Andrea; McCall, Alan; Ward, Patrick								Relationships Between Internal and External Load Measures and Fitness Level Changes in Professional Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			760	772		10.1080/02701367.2022.2053646			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Understanding the dose-response relationship between internal and external training load with changes in aerobic fitness and intermittent running capacity, during different periods of the season, may help in optimizing training process. The aim of the present study was to investigate the dose-response relationships between load measures and changes in aerobic fitness and intermittent running capacity among a large cohort of professional soccer players. Methods: Training load, aerobic fitness and intermittent running capacity of 52 male adult professional players from 3 elite teams were monitored across an entire season and analyzed employing linear mixed models, with a significance level set at p <= 0.05. Results: Relationships between load measures (training and match duration, sRPE-TL, total distance, high and very high-speed running distances) and changes in physical qualities were stronger during the preparation period (PREP) for both aerobic fitness (d= 0.48 to 0.76, p<0.031) and intermittent running capacity (d= 0.46 to 1.89, p<0.046). The magnitude of the relationships reduced during the first competitive period (d= 0.43 to 0.56) and the relationships became trivial in the second competitive period (d= 0.06 to 0.41, p= 0.063 to 0.846). Conclusion: The moderate to large relationships found between all measures of load and changes in physical capacities suggest that training prescription during the PREP was effective in improving players' fitness. During the competitive phase small changes in aerobic and intermittent running capacities were found, highlighting that coaching staff pursue different aims during the competitive period, such as technical and tactical training and recovery.		[Martin, Marco; Rampinini, Ermanno; Bosio, Andrea] MAPEI Sport Res Ctr, Varese, Italy; [Martin, Marco] Bangor Univ, Bangor, Gwynedd, Wales; [Azzalin, Andrea] Ukrainian Assoc Football, Kiev, Ukraine; [Azzalin, Andrea] Univ Verona, Verona, Italy; [McCall, Alan] Arsenal Football Club, London, England; [Ward, Patrick] Seattle Seahawks, Renton, WA USA; [Martin, Marco] MAPEI Sport Res Ctr, Human Performance Lab, I-21057 Olgiate Olona, Varese, Italy								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000788987900001	50	Article; Article		
J	Oliveira, Joao; Casanova, Nuno; Gomes, Joao S.; Pezarat-Correia, Pedro; Freitas, Sandro; Vaz, Joao R.								Changes in torque complexity and maximal torque after a fatiguing exercise protocol								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2067588				2022	Torque outputs exhibit non-random fluctuations in their temporal structure, i.e., complexity. Fatigue has been shown to alter this structure. The torque outputs typically become more regular, resulting in decreased adaptability. Importantly, torque complexity was shown a different recovery pattern after fatigue compared to maximal torque. However, it remains to be understood if these uncoupled patterns of recovery are muscle dependent. In addition, it also remains to be investigated if changes in maximal torque and complexity are correlated. This study investigated (i) the effects of a fatiguing protocol on the complexity and maximal torque from plantar flexors and (ii) the relationship between changes in these two outputs. Ten participants visited the laboratory, and measures were taken at baseline, immediately after, 1 h after and 24 h after the fatiguing protocol. Maximum voluntary contraction, isometric contractions at 30% of maximum and pain pressure threshold were collected. Both legs were assessed, but only one was given the fatiguing protocol. Two-way ANOVAs and correlations were conducted. The fatiguing protocol decreased torque complexity (similar to 35%) and maximal torque (similar to 20%), and they exhibited uncoupled patterns of recovery. Moreover, the correlation analysis showed no correlation between changes in these parameters. These findings support that these parameters are independent of each other.		[Oliveira, Joao; Gomes, Joao S.; Pezarat-Correia, Pedro; Freitas, Sandro; Vaz, Joao R.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Neuromuscular Res Lab, Lisbon, Portugal; [Casanova, Nuno] Univ Leeds, Fac Environm, Sch Food Sci & Nutr, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Pezarat-Correia, Pedro; Freitas, Sandro; Vaz, Joao R.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Interdisciplinary Ctr Study Human Performance, Lisbon, Portugal; [Vaz, Joao R.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Neuromuscular Res Lab, Lisbon, Portugal; [Vaz, Joao R.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Interdisciplinary Ctr Study Human Performance, Lisbon, Portugal								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000788898600001	46	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Fehr, Collin M.; McEwen, Gary; Robinson, Clay								The Effects of "Physical BEMER® Vascular Therapy" on Work Performed During Repeated Wingate Sprints								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			732	737		10.1080/02701367.2022.2053040			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of Bio-Electro-Magnetic-Energy-Regulation (BEMER) on recovery and performance parameters in anaerobic exercise compared to active and passive recovery. Method: Fifteen recreationally active participants completed four sessions separated by 2-5 days between each session. The first visit involved one Wingate Anaerobic Test (WAnT; 30-s cycling sprint on a Monark ergometer) to familiarize participants with testing procedures. The three subsequent sessions involved four repeated WAnTs. Each sprint was followed by 4 min of either passive recovery (laying supine), active recovery (pedaling at 50 rpm at 20% of sprint workload), or BEMER recovery (laying supine on the BEMER body pad at intensity level "5-Plus."). The same recovery method was used within each testing session, and recovery method order was randomized across participants. Results: There was no difference in peak power, average power, fatigue index, or average work performed between recovery conditions. Active recovery resulted in a statistically significant decrease in ratings of pain intensity (M = -0.767, SD = 0.928) and pain unpleasantness (M = -0.608, SD = 0.915), from the first minute to the fourth minute of recovery, compared to both BEMER (Intensity: M = 0.675, SD = 0.745, Unpleasantness: M = 1.125, SD = 0.862) and passive (Intensity: M = 0.542, SD = 0.774, Unpleasantness: M = 1.018, SD = 0.872) recoveries, where pain ratings increased. Conclusions: Although no recovery method resulted in increased performance, active recovery led to a more comfortable exercise experience while still allowing comparable exercise performance.		[Fehr, Collin M.; McEwen, Gary; Robinson, Clay] Lewis Clark State Coll, Lewiston, ID 83501 USA; [Fehr, Collin M.] Lewis Clark State Coll, Phys Life Movement & Sport Sci, 500 8th Ave, Lewiston, ID 83501 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000788573900001	37	Article; Article		
J	Bajolek, Klaudia; Warne, Joe								Electric Muscle Stimulation (EMS) Does Not Improve Anaerobic Performance Measures During a Repeated Wingate Test								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			725	731		10.1080/02701367.2022.2052003			JUL 3 2023	2023	Introduction: The aim of this study was to examine differences between a control warm-up and an Electric Muscle Stimulation (EMS)-induced warm-up in off-road cyclists when examining anaerobic performance measures from a repeated Wingate test (WAnT). Methods: Twelve trained off-road cyclists completed a randomized crossover study (age: 31 +/- 10 years, height: 176.79 +/- 6.09 cm, body mass: 74.57 +/- 4.77 kg). Participants completed two randomized, separate testing sessions involving a control warm-up and an EMS warm-up before undergoing the repeated WAnT, which was used to collect anaerobic performance and physiolo- gical measures during both sessions. High-frequency EMS was applied to the knee extensor muscles for 4 min after a standardized warm-up during the EMS session. Results: Analysis revealed that there were no significant differences between mean power output, peak power output, and percentage decrement between the two sessions. The EMS session resulted in significantly lower average HR values and significantly lower differences in pre-to-post-test blood lactate values when compared to the control session. Discussion: According to the results of this study, an acute application of EMS is not a useful tool for off-road cyclists to improve power output or maintain anaerobic capacity. Hence, its use before competition is questionable.		[Bajolek, Klaudia; Warne, Joe] Technol Univ Dublin, Tallaght Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Warne, Joe] Setanta Coll, Thurles Enterprise Ctr, Thurles, Ireland; [Bajolek, Klaudia] TU Dublin, Dept Appl Sci, Tallaght Campus,Blessington Rd, Dublin D24 FKT9 24, Ireland								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000788553900001	55	Article; Article		
J	Rosen, Johanna S.; Arndt, Anton; Nilsson, Johnny; Rosdahl, Hans; Goosey-Tolfrey, Victoria L.; Bjerkefors, Anna								Kinematic and kinetic performance variables during paddling among para-kayak athletes with unilateral above or below knee amputation								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2067074				2022	In para-kayak, athletes with unilateral above knee amputation (AK) and athletes with below knee amputation (BK) compete in the same class. This has been questioned since previous research have shown that the legs are important for paddling performance. The purpose was therefore to examine differences in kinematic and kinetic performance variables between AK and BK para-kayak athletes and the amputated (A) and non-amputated (NA) sides. Eleven AK and six BK athletes on international level participated. 3D kinematic and kinetic data were collected for the body, seat, footrest and paddle during kayak ergometer paddling. There were no significant differences between the groups in main performance variables such as power output or paddle force. Differences between the groups were only seen in the hip joint in flexion range of motion, flexion and extension angular velocity and flexion moment where BK demonstrated larger values. The NA side demonstrated greater values compared to the A side in posterior force at the seat and in hip flexion moment. As there were no significant differences between the groups in the majority of the examined key performance variables, the results suggest that athletes with unilateral AK and BK amputation may be able to compete in the same class.		[Rosen, Johanna S.; Arndt, Anton; Nilsson, Johnny; Rosdahl, Hans; Bjerkefors, Anna] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci GIH, Dept Physiol Nutr & Biomech, Stockholm, Sweden; [Arndt, Anton] Karolinska Inst, Dept Clin Sci Intervent & Technol CLINTEC, Stockholm, Sweden; [Nilsson, Johnny] Dalarna Univ, Dept Hlth & Welf, Falun, Sweden; [Goosey-Tolfrey, Victoria L.] Loughborough Univ, Peter Harrison Ctr Disabil Sport, Sch Sport, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Bjerkefors, Anna] Karolinska Inst, Dept Neurosci, Stockholm, Sweden; [Rosen, Johanna S.] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci GIH, Box 5626, SE-11486 Stockholm, Sweden								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000794314300001	13	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Perejmibida, Amy; Conlon, Jenny A.; Lyons, Mikayla; Cripps, Ashley; Secomb, Josh								The impact of age and maturation on physical performance capacities in emerging adolescent surfing athletes: An argument for off-water training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			437	445	17479541221083481	10.1177/17479541221083481			APR 2023	2023	Surfing is a high intensity intermittent sport, rapidly increasing in popularity in recent years. Surfing athletes who possess holistic physical performance capabilities, for example; strength, power, dynamic balance and flexibility, are better able to respond to the dynamic and variable nature of competition. Talent identification (TID) and long-term athlete development (LTAD) processes must consider the physical capacities necessary for performance and the impact of maturation. This study aimed to identify the physical performance capacities of state level adolescent surfers and explore their association with age and maturation. Participants (13.68 +/- 1.57 years, 159.54 +/- 12.33 cm, 50.07 +/- 12.25 kg) were recruited from the Surfing Western Australia (WA) High Performance Pathway (HPP). Athletes completed a TID testing battery including anthropometrics (height, sitting height, body mass, arm span, sum of 7 skinfolds), flexibility (sit and reach), lower body power (vertical and broad jump) and strength (isometric mid-thigh pull; IMTP), dynamic balance (time to stabilisation; TTS) and sensorimotor ability and stability (Athletic Ability Assessment; AAA). Findings demonstrated whilst many physical performance capacities improved with advanced age and maturation, relative lower body strength, dynamic balance and several components of the AAA did not. Further, physical performance capacities were similarly associated with both maturity and age, except total AAA, which was significantly associated with maturation but not age. In conclusion, these data highlight inefficiencies in the current physical preparation of emerging adolescent state-level surfing athletes and highlight the need for a more robust training programme to maximise athletic potential, including structured off-water training.		[Secomb, Josh] Univ Newcastle, Newcastle, NSW, Australia; [Perejmibida, Amy; Conlon, Jenny A.; Lyons, Mikayla; Cripps, Ashley] Univ Notre Dame Australia, 32 Mouat St, Fremantle, WA 6160, Australia; [Perejmibida, Amy] Univ Notre Dame Australia, 32 Mouat St, Fremantle, WA 6160, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000789413200001	40	Article; Article		
J	Howell, David R.; Wingerson, Mathew J.; Kirkwood, Michael W.; Grubenhoff, Joseph A.; Wilson, Julie C.								Early aerobic exercise among adolescents at moderate/high risk for persistent post-concussion symptoms: A pilot randomized clinical trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				196	204		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.04.010			MAY 2022	2022	Purpose: To determine the proportion of adolescents at moderate/high risk for Persistent Postconcussion Symptoms (PPCS) who develop PPCS when randomized to early aerobic exercise or standard-of-care and examine exercise volume/intensity between groups. Methods: Using a randomized clinical trial design, we enrolled patients 10-18 years of age who obtained a "Predicting/Preventing Postconcussive Problems in Pediatrics" (5P) risk score >6 and enrolled/ tested < one-week post-concussion (mean = 5.5 +/- 1.5 days post-concussion). Participants were randomized to "Exercise" (5 days/week, 20 min/day aerobic exercise at individualized intensity [80% HR at exercise test cessation]) or "Standard-of-Care" (no exercise recommendations). They returned for retesting one-month post-concussion, and we remotely monitored exercise between assessments. Results: Sixteen participants enrolled (intervention: n = 9, 56% female, 14.2 +/- 2.1 years; standard-of-care: n = 7, 57% female, 13.6 +/- 1.7 years). A smaller proportion of the early aerobic exercise group developed PPCS when compared to the standard-of-care group (44% vs. 86%; relative risk = 0.52; 95% confidence interval = 0.34-1.36; number-needed-to-treat = 2.4). Conclusion: We observed that participants randomized to early aerobic exercise had a lower risk of PPCS compared to standard-of-care. Although not statistically significant, these results suggest early/individualized aerobic exercise among those at moderate/high PPCS risk may be effective at reducing that risk, and early aerobic exercise is not detrimental to recovery outcomes. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Howell, David R.; Wingerson, Mathew J.; Wilson, Julie C.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David R.; Wilson, Julie C.] Univ Colorado, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Wingerson, Mathew J.; Kirkwood, Michael W.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Dept Rehabil Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Kirkwood, Michael W.] Univ Colorado, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Sch Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Grubenhoff, Joseph A.] Univ Colorado, Sect Pediat Emergency Med, Sch Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Grubenhoff, Joseph A.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Emergency Dept, Aurora, CO USA; [Wilson, Julie C.] Univ Colorado, Dept Pediat, Sch Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000025	42	Article; Article		
J	Alemi, Behzad; Majlesi, Sara; Nekooei, Pooya; Ghasemabad, Kamran Hooseinzadeh; Nekouie, Paria								Changes in Heart Rate Variability and Post-Exercise Blood Pressure from Manipulating Rest Intervals Between Sets of Resistance Training								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			61	73		10.2478/hukin-2022-0031			APR 26 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to compare blood pressure and heart rate variability responses in physically active men after performing resistance training sessions with rest intervals of 1 min, 2 min and 3 min. Eighteen men (age, 21.6 +/- 1.1 years; body mass, 74.1 +/- 8.1 kg; body height, 175.3 +/- 7.1 cm) who performed 180min of physical activity per week participated in this study. After determining the 15RM loads for the squat, bench press, bent-over row and deadlift, participants performed a resistance training session. Participants performed three resistance training protocols in randomized counterbalanced order. Each experimental protocol comprised different rest intervals between sets of resistance training exercises (1min, 2min or 3min). During each experimental session, participants performed three sets with a 15RM load. Blood pressure and heart rate variability were measured before and for 2h after each session. The results demonstrated a greater blood pressure (p<0.05) reduction with a longer rest interval. There was no statistically significant difference in heart rate variability changes between groups. These results indicate that 2min and 3min rest intervals while using a 15RM load provide the best stimulus for a blood pressure reduction response after a resistance training session. Our findings suggest that strength and conditioning professionals should prescribe 2min or 3min rest intervals when resistance training is performed with a 15RM load if the aim is to obtain an acute reduction in blood pressure after a resistance training session.		[Alemi, Behzad; Nekooei, Pooya; Ghasemabad, Kamran Hooseinzadeh] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Educ Studies, Upm Serdang 43400, Selangor Darul, Malaysia; [Majlesi, Sara] Univ Malaya, Sport Ctr, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Nekouie, Paria] Univ Paderborn, Dept Sport & Hlth, Paderborn, Germany; [Alemi, Behzad] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Educ Studies, Upm Serdang 43400, Selangor Darul, Malaysia; [Alemi, Behzad] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Educ Studies, A-3A-13 Kiara East Suite Dex,Jalan Kampung Batu, Kuala Lumpur 51200, Malaysia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000006	41	Article; Article		
J	Jebabli, Nidhal; Zouhal, Hassane; Boullosa, Daniel; Govindasamy, Karuppasamy; Tourny, Claire; Hackney, Anthony C.; Granacher, Urs; Ben Abderrahman, Abderraouf								The Effects of Preferred Music and Its Timing on Performance, Pacing, and Psychophysiological Responses During the 6-min Test								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			123	133		10.2478/hukin-2022-0038			APR 26 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of listening to preferred music during a warm up or exercise, on performance during a 6-min all-out exercise test (6-MT) in young adult males. Twenty-five healthy males volunteered to participate in this study. Following a within subject design, participants performed three test conditions (MDT: music during the test; MDW: music during the warm-up; WM: without music) in random order. Outcomes included mean running speed over the 6-min test (MRS6), total distance covered (TDC), heart rate responses (HRpeak, HRmean), blood lactate (3-min after the test), and the rating of perceived exertion (RPE); additionally, feeling scale scores were recorded. Listening to preferred music during running resulted in significant TDC (Delta up arrow 10%, p=0.006, ES=0.80) and MRS6 (Delta up arrow 14%, p=0.012, ES=1.02) improvement during the 6-MT, improvement was also noted for the warm-up with music condition (TDC:Delta up arrow 8%, p=0.028, ES=0.63; MRS6:Delta up arrow 8%, p=0.032, ES=0.61). A similar reverse "J-shaped" pacing profile was detected during the three conditions. Blood lactate was lower in the MDT condition by 8% (p=0.01, ES=1.10), but not the MDW condition, compared to MW. In addition, no statistically significant differences were found between the test sessions for the HR, RPE, and feeling scale scores. In conclusion, listening to music during exercise testing would be more beneficial for optimal TDC and MRS6 performances compared to MDW and WM.		[Jebabli, Nidhal; Ben Abderrahman, Abderraouf] Univ Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Manouba, Tunisia; [Jebabli, Nidhal] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sports & Phys Educ Kef, Res Unit, Sport Performance & Phys Rehabil, Kef, Tunisia; [Zouhal, Hassane] Univ Rennes, M2S Lab Mouvement Sport Sante, EA 1274, F-35000 Rennes, France; [Zouhal, Hassane] Inst Int Sci Sport 2I2S, F-35850 Irodouer, France; [Boullosa, Daniel] Univ Fed Mato Grosso do Sul, INISA, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil; [Boullosa, Daniel] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Boullosa, Daniel] iLOAD Solut, Res & Dev Dept, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil; [Govindasamy, Karuppasamy] SRM Inst Sci & Technol, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Kattankulathur, Tamil Nadu, India; [Tourny, Claire] Univ Rouen, EA 3832 CETAPS, Rouen, France; [Hackney, Anthony C.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Granacher, Urs] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Potsdam, Germany; [Zouhal, Hassane] Univ Rennes, M2S Lab Mouvement Sport Sante, EA 1274, F-35000 Rennes, France; [Granacher, Urs] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Potsdam, Germany								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000010	46	Article; Article		
J	Osakabe, Jumpei; Yamamoto, Miyuna; Matsumoto, Takaaki; Umemura, Yoshihisa								Addition of in-Play Cooling Breaks During Intermittent Exercise while Wearing Lacrosse Uniforms in the Heat Attenuates Increases in Rectal Temperature								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			111	121		10.2478/hukin-2022-0037			APR 26 2022	2022	To reduce the risk of heat-related illness, appropriate body cooling strategies are needed during men's lacrosse competitions in hot-humid environments. The current study investigated whether additional in-play cooling breaks would attenuate the core (rectal) body temperature rise during exercise designed to mimic the activity patterns of a men's lacrosse match while wearing uniform in hot-humid environments. In randomized and counterbalanced order, ten physically active men completed two experimental trials comprising four quarters of 15-min intermittent cycling exercises separated by a 10-min simulated half-time break and two 2-min quarter breaks in a climate chamber (35 degrees C, 50% relative humidity). The two trials included a regular simulated match condition (REG) and a water break time out condition (WBTO) that included additional 2-min breaks 7.5-min into each quarter. Rectal temperature was significantly lower (p=0.017) in the WBTO condition (38.23 +/- 0.23 degrees C) compared with the REG condition (38.50 +/- 0.46 degrees C) at the end of the 4th quarter. In addition, ratings of perceived exertion, thermal sensation, heart rate and the physiological strain index were significantly lower (all p<0.05) in the WBTO condition compared with the REG condition. The current results indicated that, even when wearing lacrosse uniforms, the implementation of WBTO attenuated the core body temperature elevation only in the latter stages of an intermittent cycling exercise protocol designed to mimic the exercise pattern of a men's lacrosse match. Therefore, WBTO may provide a feasible and effective cooling strategy for lacrosse players to reduce the risk of heat-illness.		[Osakabe, Jumpei; Yamamoto, Miyuna; Matsumoto, Takaaki; Umemura, Yoshihisa] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, 101 Tokodachi,Kaidu Cho, Toyota, Aichi 4700393, Japan; [Osakabe, Jumpei] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, 101 Tokodachi,Kaidu Cho, Toyota, Aichi 4700393, Japan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000009	27	Article; Article		
J	Wilinski, Wojciech; Struzik, Artur; Rokita, Andrzej; Krejci, Milada; Wieczorek, Marta								Hand Grip Strength vs. Locomotor Efficiency in Sitting Volleyball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			275	282		10.2478/hukin-2022-0081			APR 26 2022	2022	The objective of this paper was to determine the relationship between hand grip strength and movement time (locomotor efficiency in a seated position using the upper and lower extremities) in sitting volleyball players. In addition, a comparison was made between the velocity curves for forward and backward locomotion. Nine male members of the sitting volleyball team participated in the study. Hydraulic and spring manual dynamometers were used to measure hand grip strength. Movement times were registered for distances of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 10-m with the use of the Smart Speed System photocells. Significant relationships between hand grip strength of the left (r(s)=-0.78) and right (r(s)=-0.73) hands and the forward movement time over a distance of 1-m were found. Hand grip strength had no significant relationship with either forward movement times at other distances or backward movement times. Results suggest that hand strength is linked to locomotor efficiency of sitting volleyball players. High hand grip strength makes the start easier by pushing away from the ground with the upper limbs.		[Wilinski, Wojciech; Wieczorek, Marta] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Methodol Sch Phys Culture, Wroclaw, Poland; [Struzik, Artur] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Biomech, Wroclaw, Poland; [Rokita, Andrzej] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Team Sport Games, Wroclaw, Poland; [Krejci, Milada] Coll Phys Educ & Sport PALESTRA, Prague, Czech Republic; [Wieczorek, Marta] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Witelona 25 St, PL-51617 Wroclaw, Poland								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000025	26	Article; Article		
J	Novak, Dominik; Loskot, Jiri; Roczniok, Robert; Opath, Lukas; Stastny, Petr								Training with a Heavy Puck Elicits a Higher Increase of Shooting Speed Than Unloaded Training in Midget Ice Hockey Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			191	200		10.2478/hukin-2022-0045			APR 26 2022	2022	A method of load variability is a common way of developing specific skills in various sports, however, not explored considering the use of different ice-hockey pucks. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to compare shooting speed, shooting accuracy, and handgrip strength changes after training with variable training loads (lighter 60g pucks and heavier 260g pucks) in the wrist shot and snapshot. Sixteen male ice hockey players (13.62 +/- 0.35y; 167.67 +/- 7.71cm; 53.87 +/- 7.55kg) were subjected to a 12 week experiment during which they trained six weeks with a light puck and six weeks with a heavy puck and were tested for shooting speed, shooting accuracy and handgrip strength. The variable load training increased shooting speed (the long hand snapshot by 7.4%, the shorthand snapshot by 8.5%, and the wrist shot by 13%), shooting accuracy (by 14%), and handgrip strength (by 8.7%) of the bottom hand; all at p<0.001. Training with heavy pucks was more effective (d=0.50-0.86) than training with lighter pucks (d=23-25) for increasing puck speed. Shooting accuracy was increased by variable load training with a similar effect of heavy and light puck training. The variable training load had a positive effect on shooting speed and accuracy and the use of a heavier load was more effective than using the unloaded puck. Variable load shooting training in youth ice-hockey players is more effective with heavier pucks than lighter ones, and the improvements are greater in players with better shooting skills.		[Novak, Dominik; Loskot, Jiri; Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague 16252, Czech Republic; [Roczniok, Robert] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Sport Sci Inst, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Opath, Lukas] Matej Bel Univ Banska Bystrica, Fac Arts, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Banska Bystrica 97401, Slovakia; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague 16252, Czech Republic								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000017	20	Article; Article		
J	Asian-Clemente, Jose; Suarez-Arrones, Luis; Requena, Bernardo; Santalla, Alfredo								Influence of Tactical Behaviour on Running Performance in the Three Most Successful Soccer Teams During the Competitive Season of the Spanish First Division								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			135	144		10.2478/hukin-2022-0040			APR 26 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to analyze the influence of tactical behavior on physical performance of the three best Spanish soccer teams. Team 1 employed a 1-4-4-2 formation with compact defence and direct attacks, Team 2 employed an indirect style of play with a 1-4-3-3 formation and Team 3 used a 1-4-3-3 formation with elaborate attacks and strong counter-attacks. 816 individual situations of 54 professional soccer players categorized as fullbacks (FB), central defenders (CD), central midfielders (MF), wide midfielders (WM), and strikers (S) were included in the analysis. Their performance was examined with a player-tracking system. The analyzed variables included total distance covered, distance covered above 14, 21 and 24 km center dot h(-1), as well as distance covered in possession of the ball and without possession of the ball. Team 2 covered a substantially lower distance >14 km center dot h(-1) than Team 1 and substantially lower distances >14, >21, and >25km center dot h(-1) than Team 3. No differences in running activity were found between Teams 1 and 3. However, there were substantial differences between the specific positions of the three teams. CD in Team 1 covered the lowest distance by a substantial margin in almost all variables analysed, whereas MF travelled substantially greater distances than did other positions. WM in Team 1 covered the greatest distance >18 and >21km center dot h(- 1), while S in Team 2 had the lowest distance covered in almost all the variables, and FB in Team 3 showed the lowest total distance covered and distance covered >14km center dot h(-1). WM in Team 2 had the greatest distance covered in possession, while S in Team 3 had the greatest distance covered out of possession. The results indicate that different team formations and associated tactical demands have a significant influence on running performance.		[Asian-Clemente, Jose; Suarez-Arrones, Luis; Requena, Bernardo; Santalla, Alfredo] Football Sci Inst, Granada, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose; Suarez-Arrones, Luis; Santalla, Alfredo] Univ Pablo Olavide, Dept Sport Sci, Seville, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose] Real Betis Balompie, Performance Dept, Seville, Spain; [Asian-Clemente, Jose] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Ctra Utrera Km 1, Seville 41500, Spain								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000011	20	Article; Article		
J	Klimesova, Iva; Krejci, Jakub; Botek, Michal; McKune, Andrew J.; Jakubec, Ales; Neuls, Filip; Sladeckova, Barbora; Valenta, Michal								Prevalence of Dehydration and the Relationship with Fluid Intake and Self-Assessment of Hydration Status in Czech First League Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			101	110		10.2478/hukin-2022-0035			APR 26 2022	2022	The objective of this cross-sectional study was to evaluate the hydration status of Czech First League soccer players, and to compare the reported fluid intake, perceived fluid intake and thirst sensation of euhydrated (EU) and dehydrated (DE) players. The study involved 124 Czech male professional soccer players (age 25.2 +/- 5.0 years) participating in annual winter, pre-season laboratory testing. Hydration status was assessed based on urine specific gravity (USG), euhydration was set at USG <= 1.020. Fluid intake and thirst perception were evaluated by a questionnaire. The sample mean for USG was 1.021 +/- 0.008, 56% of players were dehydrated. Reported daily fluid intake was significantly (p<0.001, d=0.95, large effect) higher in EU compared to DE players. Daily fluid intake negatively correlated with USG (rS=-0.46, p<0.001, medium effect). The fluid intake perception score was significantly (p=0.005, d=0.54, medium effect) better in EU compared to DE players. Reported intake perception scores negatively correlated with USG (rS=-0.32, p<0.001, medium effect). However, there was no correlation (rS=-0.09, p=0.34, trivial effect) between thirst perception scores and USG. Thirst perception scores were not significantly different between EU and DE players (p=0.35, d=0.18, trivial effect). Our results indicated that self-assessment of both daily fluid intake and perceived fluid intake matched with objective hydration status, while self-assessment of thirst perception was not an appropriate indicator of hydration status in elite soccer players.		[Klimesova, Iva; Krejci, Jakub; Botek, Michal; Jakubec, Ales; Neuls, Filip; Sladeckova, Barbora; Valenta, Michal] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Trida Miru 117, Olomouc 77111, Czech Republic; [McKune, Andrew J.] Univ Canberra, Collaborat Res Bioact & Biomarkers CRIBB Grp, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [McKune, Andrew J.] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Res Inst Sports & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [McKune, Andrew J.] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Coll Hlth Sci, Discipline Biokinet Exercise & Leisure Sci, Durban, South Africa; [Klimesova, Iva] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Trida Miru 117, Olomouc 77111, Czech Republic								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000008	40	Article; Article		
J	Marszalek, Jolanta; Kosmol, Andrzej; Morgulec-Adamowicz, Natalia; Mroz, Anna; Gryko, Karol; Klavina, Aija; Skucas, Kestutis; Navia, Jose A.; Molik, Bartosz								Anaerobic Variables as Specific Determinants of Functional Classification in Wheelchair Basketball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			243	252		10.2478/hukin-2022-000074			APR 26 2022	2022	Every parasport is currently encouraged to consider evidence-based classification to develop their respective classification system. Therefore, the aims of this study were to: (1) assess the relationship between trunk function and anaerobic power determining proficiency in wheelchair basketball, and (2) define "natural classes" in wheelchair basketball based on anaerobic power. Fifty-nine elite players (representing five national teams) were divided into four main functional classes: Group 1 (n=17), Group 2 (n=14), Group 3 (n=16), Group 4 (n=12). They performed the 6x10s Anaerobic Power Test using an arm crank ergometer. Average values of mean power, peak power, relative mean power, relative peak power, and power decrement were calculated for the 6x10s and 3x10s tests. The Spearman's correlation matrix revealed significant correlations between classes and values recorded in the 6x10s test. This confirmation between anaerobic power and players' classification endorses the division of players into different classes. Furthermore, cluster analysis (with fair quality) divided players into two "natural classes". The first resulting class was mainly formed of participants from Group 1 (71%). An important complement to this research could be to consider wheelchair acceleration and the volume of trunk action in wheelchair basketball classification.		[Marszalek, Jolanta; Kosmol, Andrzej; Morgulec-Adamowicz, Natalia; Molik, Bartosz] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, Ul Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland; [Mroz, Anna; Gryko, Karol] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Klavina, Aija] Latvian Acad Sports Educ, Sci Dept, Riga, Latvia; [Klavina, Aija; Skucas, Kestutis] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Phys Act Lab, Adapted, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Navia, Jose A.] Univ Alcala, Fac Educ, Alcala De Henares, Spain; [Marszalek, Jolanta] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, Ul Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000022	31	Article; Article		
J	Berriel, Guilherme P.; Cardoso, Ananda S.; Costa, Rochelle R.; Rosa, Rodrigo G.; Oliveira, Henrique B.; Kruel, Luiz Fernando M.; Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo A.								Effects of Postactivation Performance Enhancement on the Vertical Jump in High-Level Volleyball Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			145	153		10.2478/hukin-2022-0041			APR 26 2022	2022	The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of a training session with and without an intervention of postactivation performance enhancement (PAPE) on countermovement jump (CMJ) height, perceived recovery status (PRS), and ratings of perceived exertion (RPEs), followed by a specific volleyball training session. The sample consisted of sixteen professional male volleyball players, with an average age of 26.8 +/- 6.1 years and average height of 195.9 +/- 6.7 cm, randomly divided into a group with PAPE intervention (GPAPE) (n=8), and a control group (CTRL) without PAPE intervention (n=8). The control group carried out the training session with plyometric exercises, and the GPAPE added conditioning protocols for PAPE to plyometric training, followed by a technical tactical volleyball session. At the end of the training session, there was an increase of 16.3% in the height of the CMJ in the GPAPE, while the CTRL showed a decrease of 5% in the height of the CMJ. PRS and RPE variables did not differ between the groups. It was concluded that PAPE had a positive effect on the height of the vertical jump after plyometric training, which was maintained until the end of the technical and tactical volleyball session.		[Berriel, Guilherme P.; Cardoso, Ananda S.; Costa, Rochelle R.; Rosa, Rodrigo G.; Oliveira, Henrique B.; Kruel, Luiz Fernando M.; Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo A.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Dance, Exercise Res Lab, Felizardo St 750, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Berriel, Guilherme P.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Dance, Exercise Res Lab, Felizardo St 750, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000012	29	Article; Article		
J	Pereira, Lucas A.; Boullosa, Daniel; Moura, Tulio B. M. A.; Mercer, Valter P.; Fernandes, Victor; Bishop, Chris; Loturco, Irineu								Post-Activation Performance Enhancement in Sprinters: Effects of Hard Versus Sand Surfaces								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			173	180		10.2478/hukin-2022-0062			APR 26 2022	2022	This study aimed to compare the post-activation performance enhancement induced by successive drop-jumps performed on hard and sand surfaces in sprint and jump performance of top-level sprinters. Athletes were tested on two occasions. On each visit they were allocated to one of the experimental protocols, which consisted of performing 2x5 drop-jumps from a box with the height of 60-cm on hard or sand surfaces in randomized order, seven days apart. Prior to and 7 and 15-min after executing drop-jumps, sprinters performed countermovement jumps and 60-m sprint tests. Differences between sprinting splits and surfaces were assessed using a two-way analysis of variance with repeated measures. No significant differences in jump height or sprint time were observed (p>0.05), regardless of the surface used (i.e., hard or sand) during the conditioning activity (effect sizes [95% confidence intervals] ranging from 0.01 [-0.84;0.84] to 0.44 [-0.42;1.27]). Performing drop-jumps on sand or hard surfaces immediately before maximum sprinting bouts does not provide any advantage or disadvantage to top-level sprinters. Sprint coaches may prescribe short-plyometric training activities on sand surfaces even close to competitions, bearing in mind that this strategy will not compromise sprint-specific performance.		[Pereira, Lucas A.; Moura, Tulio B. M. A.; Mercer, Valter P.; Fernandes, Victor; Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Pereira, Lucas A.; Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Boullosa, Daniel] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Campus Townsville, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Boullosa, Daniel] Univ Fed Mato Grosso do Sul, Grad Program Movement Sci, INISA, Campus Campo Grande, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil; [Boullosa, Daniel] iLOAD Solut, Res & Dev Dept, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil; [Moura, Tulio B. M. A.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Sport Sci Dept, Lab Appl Biomech, Londrina, Parana, Brazil; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000015	21	Article; Article		
J	So, Billy C. L.; Kwok, Manny M. Y.; Fung, Veron C. Y.; Kwok, Ally H. Y.; Lau, Crystal W. C.; Tse, Alison L. Y.; Wong, Mini S. Y.; Mercer, John A.								A Study Comparing Gait and Lower Limb Muscle Activity During Aquatic Treadmill Running With Different Water Depth and Land Treadmill Running								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			39	50		10.2478/hukin-2022-0030			APR 26 2022	2022	Aquatic treadmill running is a partial weight-bearing exercise for rehabilitation. The purpose of this study was to investigate the surface electromyography activities of the rectus femoris, tibialis anterior, biceps femoris and medial head of gastrocnemius, and gait kinematics during aquatic treadmill running in water levels at waist, mid-thigh and mid-shin and on land. Seventeen healthy subjects (9 males and 8 females) were recruited by convenience sampling. Participants performed 2-min aquatic treadmill running at a specific speed for each water depth. The test speed was selected based upon the speed that elicited 110 steps per min. The surface electromyography data of lower limb muscles and the joint angles at three different water depths and on land were collected to evaluate the muscle activity and gait kinematics using a waterproofed surface electromyography system and inertial measurement unit for each muscle. Results showed that rectus femoris electromyography was different between depths during the swing and stance phases. Likewise, biceps femoris and tibialis anterior electromyography were different between depths for the swing phase. However, it was not the case for gastrocnemius electromyography. Peak flexion angles in both left and right hips were different between depths. A significant increase in a stance/swing ratio was observed with rising water depths. Water depth influenced muscle activity as well as kinematics. Aquatic treadmill running in the mid-thigh level should be further evaluated for its effectiveness, training value and applicability.		[So, Billy C. L.; Kwok, Manny M. Y.; Fung, Veron C. Y.; Kwok, Ally H. Y.; Lau, Crystal W. C.; Tse, Alison L. Y.; Wong, Mini S. Y.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Gait & Mot Anal Lab, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Mercer, John A.] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [So, Billy C. L.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Hung Hom, ST506,5-F,Ng Wing Hong Bldg, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000004	26	Article; Article		
J	Sousa, Antonio Carlos; Marques, Diogo Luis; Calado, Antonio Manuel; Pacheco, Carlos; Marinho, Daniel Almeida; Marques, Mario Cardoso; Travassos, Bruno Filipe								Validity and Reliability of the Smart Groin Trainer for Measuring Hip Adduction Strength								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			51	59		10.2478/hukin-2022-0029			APR 26 2022	2022	We analyzed the Smart Groin Trainer device's validity and reliability to measure the isometric hip adduction strength during the adductor squeeze strength test. Fifteen professional soccer players (25.33 +/- 4.06 years) and fifteen university students (21.60 +/- 1.76 years) participated in this study. All participants performed the squeeze strength test using two portable dynamometers: Smart Groin Trainer and Globus Ergometer. Three maximal isometric hip adduction contractions lasting 5s, interspersed by 3min rest intervals, were performed. Reliability was analyzed with intraclass correlation coefficients, standard error of measurements, and minimal detectable change. The absolute percent error and inter-device accuracy were also analyzed. Correlation analysis assessed the inter-device concurrent validity. The results found no significant differences (p>0.05) between devices in the squeeze strength test values in soccer players and university students. Inter-device comparisons revealed excellent levels of reliability and accuracy in soccer players. Concurrent validity measures revealed strong inter-device relationships in soccer players (r=0.89) and very strong relationships in university students (r=0.99). Intra-device analysis using the Smart Groin Trainer showed excellent relative and absolute reliability in tested soccer players. Our data demonstrated excellent levels of agreement between both dynamometers during the squeeze strength test, suggesting the Smart Groin Trainer as a valid, reliable, and accurate device to measure isometric hip adduction strength.		[Sousa, Antonio Carlos; Marques, Diogo Luis; Marinho, Daniel Almeida; Marques, Mario Cardoso; Travassos, Bruno Filipe] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Rua Morais Convento, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal; [Sousa, Antonio Carlos; Marinho, Daniel Almeida; Marques, Mario Cardoso; Travassos, Bruno Filipe] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal; [Calado, Antonio Manuel; Pacheco, Carlos] Rio Ave FC, Rio Ave Rendimento, Vila Do Conde, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno Filipe] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Sousa, Antonio Carlos] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Rua Morais Convento, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000005	30	Article; Article		
J	Blecharz, Jan; Wrzesniewski, Krzysztof; Siekanska, Malgorzata; Ambrozy, Tadeusz; Spieszny, Michal								Cognitive Factors in Elite Handball: Do Players' Positions Determine their Cognitive Processes?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				82	1			213	221		10.2478/hukin-2022-0063			APR 26 2022	2022	For an athlete to be successful at the professional level, he or she should be characterized by extraordinary preparation in four areas: physical, technical, cognitive (related to game strategy, perception, and decision-making), and emotional (coping, emotional control). This study aimed to determine the level of selected cognitive traits in handball players while considering their sports level and assigned position on the court. Fifty handball players participated in the study. Participants consisted of 35 national team players, six first-division players, and nine second-division players. There were no significant differences between players from the elite (national team) and the sub-elite (I and II divisions) group. The results identified major differences in selective attention and short-term memory between handball players assigned to different positions (goalkeepers, compared to players in other positions, had lower attention and short-term memory). Thus, it is possible to develop a more effective psychological training program. However, it must be remembered that the results showed great variability among handball players. With this in mind, individual differences should be taken into account when planning psychological interventions.		[Blecharz, Jan; Wrzesniewski, Krzysztof; Siekanska, Malgorzata] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Dept Psychol, Krakow, Poland; [Ambrozy, Tadeusz; Spieszny, Michal] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Inst Sports Sci, Krakow, Poland; [Ambrozy, Tadeusz] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Inst Sports Sci, Krakow, Poland								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000790902000019	44	Article; Article		
J	Tsuchiya, Yosuke; Morishima, Takuma; Ochi, Eisuke								Slow-Speed Low-Intensity but Not Normal-Speed High-Intensity Resistance Exercise Maintains Endothelial Function								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			560	567		10.1080/02701367.2021.2022586			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: High-intensity resistance exercise two or three times a week has been considered optimal for muscle hypertrophy, although it can remarkably elevate blood pressure (BP). In contrast, slow-speed resistance exercise with low intensity and tonic force generation (slow-low) can induce muscle hypertrophy without elevating BP. However, it is unclear how endothelial function changes after slow-low. Therefore, this study examined whether slow-low would maintain brachial artery endothelial function in comparison with normal-speed with high intensity resistance exercise (normal-high) and normal-speed with low-intensity resistance exercise (normal-low). Methods: Eleven healthy young men performed leg-extensions with slow-low (3 sets of 8 repetitions at 50% of 1RM), normal-high (3 sets of 8 repetitions at 80% of 1RM), and normal-low (3 sets of 8 repetitions at 50% of 1RM). Flow-mediated dilation (FMD) in the brachial artery was evaluated at pre-exercise and at 10, 30, and 60 min after exercise. Result: The results showed that normal-high caused significant impairment of FMD at 30 (3.7 +/- 2.7%) and 60 (3.7 +/- 2.8%) min after exercise (P < .05). In contrast, slow-low and normal-low showed no significant difference from baseline. FMD was significantly lower in normal-high compared with slow-low and normal-low at 30 and 60 min after exercise (P < .05). Additionally, systolic BP was significantly higher during normal-high compared with slow-low and normal-low (P < .05). Conclusion: We concluded that slow-low did not impair brachial artery FMD concomitant with lower systolic BP, and may therefore be a useful mode of exercise training to improve muscle hypertrophy without provoking transient endothelial dysfunction.		[Tsuchiya, Yosuke] Meiji Gakuin Univ, Tokyo, Japan; [Morishima, Takuma] Chukyo Univ, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Ochi, Eisuke] Hosei Univ, Tokyo, Japan; [Ochi, Eisuke] Hosei Univ, Fac Biosci & Appl Chem, 3-7-2 Kajino, Koganei, Tokyo 1848584, Japan								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000784482300001	36	Article; Article		
J	Sonesson, Sofi; Hagglund, Martin; Kvist, Joanna; Torvaldsson, Kalle; Lindblom, Hanna; Faltstrom, Anne								Neuromuscular control and hop performance in youth and adult male and female football players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				189	195		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.04.004			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To compare neuromuscular control and hop performance between youth and adult male and female football players. Design: Cross-sectional study. Participants: 119 youth players (13-16 years; 68 males) and 88 adult players (17-26 years; 44 males). Main outcome measures: Neuromuscular control assessed with drop vertical jump (DVJ) and tuck jump assessment (TJA). Hop performance assessed with single-leg hop for distance and side hop. Results: Adult females had smaller normalized knee separation distances (NKSD) during DVJ at initial contact (77.9 +/- 18.5 vs. 86.1 +/- 11.0, p = 0.010) and at maximum knee flexion (59.7 +/- 23.4 vs.74.1 +/- 18.1, p = 0.001) compared to youth females. TJA revealed more technique errors in youths compared to adults (males 10 (8-11) vs. 8 (7-10); females 11 (9-12) vs. 9 (8-11), p < 0.05). Youths demonstrated inferior hop performance (males single-leg hop 142 +/- 18 vs. 163 +/- 17, side hop 41 +/- 12 vs. 52 +/- 12, p < 0.001; females side hop 32 +/- 10 vs. 38 +/- 14, p < 0.05). Conclusions: Youth players demonstrated reduced neuromuscular control during TJA and inferior hop performance compared to adult players. Adult female players demonstrated greater knee valgus during DVJ compared to youth female players. (c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Sonesson, Sofi; Hagglund, Martin; Kvist, Joanna; Torvaldsson, Kalle; Lindblom, Hanna; Faltstrom, Anne] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Campus US,Entrance 78,Level 15, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden; [Sonesson, Sofi; Hagglund, Martin; Torvaldsson, Kalle; Lindblom, Hanna] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Sport Injury ProgrammE SWIPE, Linkoping, Sweden; [Kvist, Joanna] Stockholm Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Karolinska Inst, Dept Mol Med Surg, Stockholm, Sweden; [Faltstrom, Anne] Region Jonkoping Cty, Ryhov Cty Hosp, Rehabil Ctr, Jonkoping, Sweden; [Sonesson, Sofi] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Campus US,Entrance 78,Level 15, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000024	41	Article; Article		
J	Brian, Ali; Miedema, Sally Taunton; Starrett, Angela; Griffin, Stephen; Stribing, Alexandra; Miedema, Benjamin; Walker, MacKenzie; Casner, Chandler; Wainwright, Nalda; Wadsworth, Danielle; Goodway, Jacqueline D.; Stodden, David F.								SKIPping With PALS: Exploring Parental Engagement in a Motor Intervention for Their Preschool Children								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			668	677		10.1080/02701367.2022.2041538			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to explore how parent involvement influenced the effectiveness of a movement intervention targeting gross motor skills and physical activity behavior in preschool-aged boys and girls. Methods: Parents received training at monthly school-based sessions and online to implement the movement intervention once per month at school and once per week at home across 6 months (N = 104; M-age = 48.30 months, SD = 6.90). Children completed the Test of Gross Motor Development-3 at baseline and wore physical activity trackers 24/7 for six weeks during the intervention. COVID-19 disrupted the intervention and prevented immediate post testing. Children (N = 60; M-age = 60.86 months, SD = 6.57) who returned to the center one year later completed gross motor skill retention testing. Results: For each additional school-based session attended by the parents (up to six), children's locomotor and manipulative skills were 1.87 and 1.95 points higher, respectively, at the start of the following academic year. For physical activity, each session increase in attendance at the school-based component of the intervention resulted in an additional 1455 steps in average weekly step count. Conclusion: Increased parent engagement demonstrated greater change in gross motor skills and larger acute physical activity responses. Understanding barriers that impact the level of parental intervention engagement (i.e., dose) also provides insight into why some children learn and others do not within a parent-led intervention. Although the implementation and results of this study were impacted by COVID, these data can help researchers optimize future intervention strategies.		[Brian, Ali; Miedema, Sally Taunton; Starrett, Angela; Griffin, Stephen; Stribing, Alexandra; Miedema, Benjamin; Walker, MacKenzie; Casner, Chandler; Stodden, David F.] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Wainwright, Nalda] Univ Wales Trinity St David, Lampeter, Dyfed, Wales; [Wadsworth, Danielle] Auburn Univ, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Goodway, Jacqueline D.] Ohio State Univ, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Brian, Ali] Univ South Carolina, Dept Phys Educ, 1300 Wheat St, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000784058000001	44	Article; Article		
J	Penailillo, Luis; Diaz-Reiher, Manuel; Gurovich, Alvaro; Flores-Opazo, Marcelo								A Short-Term Eccentric HIIT Induced Greater Reduction in Cardio-Metabolic Risk Markers in Comparison With Concentric HIIT in Sedentary Overweight Men								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			547	559		10.1080/02701367.2021.2022087			APR 3 2023	2023	Background: Steady-state eccentric exercise training improves cardiometabolic risk (CMR) despite lesser cardiovascular demands compared with load-matched concentric training. Whether a high-intensity interval eccentric training is also effective reducing CMR is unknown. Aim: To compare the effects of a short-term high-intensity interval eccentric training (ECC-HIIT) with high-intensity interval concentric training (CONC-HIIT) on CMR in sedentary overweight men. Methods: Twenty men (age: 27.9 +/- 5.3y, body massindex: 29.1 +/- 3.1 kg center dot m-2) were randomly assigned to ECC-HIIT (n = 10) or CONC-HIIT (n = 10) delivered as six sessions, including 4 x 5:2 min work-to-rest ratio, at 80% peak concentric power output. Heart rate (HR), rate of perceived exertion (RPE) and muscle soreness weremonitored during training sessions. Training effects on lipid profile, insulin sensitivity (HOMA-IR), body composition, thigh circumference, isometric knee extensors maximal strength, resting systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP and DBP) were determined. Results: Average training HR and RPE were -29%and -50%lower in ECC-HIIT in comparison with CONC-HIIT. Muscle soreness was initially greater after ECC-HIIT compared with CONC-HIIT. Significant changes in total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-7.0 +/- 8.7%; p = .02 and -6.3 +/- 14.4%; p = .03), SBP (-9.8 +/- 7.8%; p = .002), and maximal thigh circumference (+2.5 +/- 3.1%; p = .02) were observed following ECC-HIIT. No changes in any CMR marker were observed after CONC-HIIT. Moderate-to-large training effect sizes were obtained in thigh circumference, SBP, total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in response to ECC-HIIT. Conclusion: A two-week ECC-HIIT was well-tolerated and induced rapid onset improvements in cholesterol and blood pressure compared to conventional CONC-HIIT in sedentary overweight men.		[Penailillo, Luis] Univ Andres Bello, Santiago, Chile; [Diaz-Reiher, Manuel; Flores-Opazo, Marcelo] Univ Finis Terrae, Santiago, Chile; [Gurovich, Alvaro] Univ Texas El Paso, El Paso, TX 79968 USA; [Flores-Opazo, Marcelo] Univ Finis Terrae, Sch Kinesiol, Pedro de Valdivia Av, Santiago 1509, Chile								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000784759100001	69	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Ellen Caroline M.; Barboza, Luciana L. S.; Gandarela, Larissa; Tejada, Julian; Schmitz, Heike; Gomes, Thayse Natacha; Silva, Roberto Jeronimo S.; Sardinha, Luis B.; Silva, Danilo R.								Two-Year Effectiveness of a Controlled Trial With Physically Active Lessons on Behavioral Indicators of School Children								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			538	546		10.1080/02701367.2021.2020707			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: In this study, we evaluated the effectiveness of two years of an intervention with physically active lessons on indicators of sedentary behavior and physical activity measured objectively in elementary school children. Methods: A controlled clinical trial with cluster sampling was carried out in 2018 and 2019, with four classes of children in the 2nd year of elementary school. The intervention group classes received dynamic activities linked to the pedagogical content (n = 34) for 2 years. The indicators of sedentary behavior and physical activities were evaluated using ActivPal and ActiGraph GT3X accelerometers during the school shift. Crude and adjusted models of Generalized Estimation Equations with Bonferroni's post hoc were used to identify the differences between the groups (three evaluations in 2018 and two evaluations in 2019). Results: There was a reduction in stationary behavior (p = .01) and an increase in light physical activity (p = .044) during the two years. In the first year there were reductions in standing time (p = .044) and number of transitions (p <= .001), and an increase in walking time (p = .017). However, in the second year, the mean differences in percentage points were smaller than in the first year. No differences were found for sitting time as well as for moderate and vigorous physical activity. We observed a large effect size for all variables. Conclusions: The introduction of physically active lessons in the classroom reduced time in stationary behavior and increased time in light physical activity. However, the effects on behavior observed in the first year were not maintained in the second year of intervention.		[Silva, Ellen Caroline M.; Barboza, Luciana L. S.; Gandarela, Larissa; Tejada, Julian; Schmitz, Heike; Gomes, Thayse Natacha; Silva, Roberto Jeronimo S.; Silva, Danilo R.] Univ Fed Sergipe, Sao Cristovao, Brazil; [Sardinha, Luis B.] Univ Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal; [Silva, Ellen Caroline M.] Fed Univ Sergipe UFS, Dept Phys Educ, Ave Marechal Rondon S-No, BR-49100000 Sao Cristovao, SE, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000784663900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Bailey, Caitlin P.; Lowry, Mark; Napolitano, Melissa A.; Hoban, Mary T.; Kukich, Christine; Perna, Frank M.								Associations Between College/University Physical Activity Requirements and Student Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			485	492		10.1080/02701367.2021.2009431			APR 3 2023	2023	Background: Most U.S. college students do not meet physical activity guidelines. Physical activity requirements (PAR) are a proposed solution for increasing undergraduate physical activity. Purpose: To determine whether college/university PAR are associated with undergraduates' self-reported physical activity. Methods: Undergraduate students (N = 383,632) attending colleges and universities taking part in the American College Health Association-National College Health Assessment II survey (2015-2019) self-reported physical activity and demographics. Using websites and course catalogs, researchers coded schools to indicate binary PAR status. Bayesian Hierarchical Logistic Regression was used to determine the percentage of students meeting physical activity guidelines; interactions between PAR status and student characteristics (sex, BMI) were examined. Results: PAR status was positively associated with percent of students meeting physical activity guidelines (PAR: 43.3%, without: 40.5%; difference score 95% Highest Density Interval [HDI; 1.0, 4.5]). A greater percentage of students attending schools with PAR, versus without, met physical activity guidelines across all categories of sex and weight. However, the positive relationship between PAR status and physical activity was stronger among male students (PAR: 46.7%, without: 43.2%; 95% HDI [1.6, 5.4]) compared to female students (PAR: 39.9%, without: 37.9%; 95% HCI [0.2, 3.8]), and among students with underweight (PAR: 39.2%, without: 35.5%; 95% HDI [1.2, 6.3]) or obesity (PAR: 37.1%, without: 33.7%; 95% HDI [1.4, 5.3]) compared to normal weight (PAR: 49.3%, without: 47.4%; 95% HDI [0.1, 3.7]) or overweight (PAR: 47.5%, without: 45.5%; 95% HDI [0.1, 4.0]). Conclusions: PAR are associated with meeting physical activity guidelines, particularly among college/university students with underweight or obesity.		[Bailey, Caitlin P.; Napolitano, Melissa A.] George Washington Univ, Milken Inst, Sch Publ Hlth, Washington, DC 20052 USA; [Lowry, Mark; Perna, Frank M.] NCI, Bethesda, MD 20892 USA; [Hoban, Mary T.; Kukich, Christine] Amer Coll Hlth Assoc, Silver Spring, MD USA; [Bailey, Caitlin P.] George Washington Univ, Milken Inst, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Prevent & Community Hlth, 950 New Hampshire Ave NW, Washington, DC 20052 USA								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000783791100001	50	Article; Article		
J	Diamond, Samantha; Wallace, Lee; English, Madeleine; Caperchione, Cristina M.								Mental health literacy practices within Australian football league next generation academy clubs: An exploratory study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			705	716	17479541221092099	10.1177/17479541221092099			JUN 2023	2023	Purpose To explore and describe the extent and quality of Mental Health Literacy (MHL) resources, information and education currently available within the Australian Football League (AFL) Next Generation Academy (NGA) programs and identify limitations/gaps in existing MHL practices within these programs. Methods An exploratory mixed-method descriptive design was utilised in two phases. Phase One consisted of a researcher led MHL audit of publicly available data associated with each NGA program. Phase Two included a web-based open-ended questionnaire distributed to key NGA personnel and focused on mental health practices within the programs. Descriptive statistics were used to present Phase One data and thematic analysis was utilised in Phase Two. Results In Phase One, the total mean standardised score for resources on mental health, raising awareness on mental health and culture of support within the clubs were 47% (SD = 16, range 18-89), 51% (SD = 23, range 0-77) and 61% (SD = 27, range of 9-97). In Phase Two, eight participants responded to the questionnaire (44% response rate). Three themes emerged from the thematic analysis: 1) current initiatives and resources within the club; 2) training, education and support for staff; 3) the gender divide. Conclusion Mainstream mental health resources do exist within the AFL and there is some support within the professional league. However, these are not effectively tailored for youth elite athletes, nor have they been implemented into NGA programs despite the willingness of staff in supporting the mental health of these athletes.		[Diamond, Samantha; Wallace, Lee; English, Madeleine; Caperchione, Cristina M.] Univ Technol, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Human Performance Res Ctr, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Caperchione, Cristina M.] Univ Technol, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Human Performance Res Ctr, Sydney, NSW, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000784624600001	51	Article; Article		
J	Correia-Oliveira, Carlos; Lopes-Silva, Joao Paulo								Caffeine Combined With Sodium Bicarbonate Improves Pacing and Overall Performance During a High-Intensity Time Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			586	595		10.1080/02701367.2022.2031847			APR 3 2023	2023	Background: No study has demonstrated the effects of sodium bicarbonate plus caffeine (NaHCO3 + CAF) on power output (PO) distribution (e.g., pacing), physiological parameters and energy system contribution during a 4-km cycling time trial (TT). Thus, we aimed to investigate the effects of NaHCO3 + CAF on pacing, physiological parameters, and energy system contribution during a 4-km cycling TT. Methods: Using a double-blind and counterbalanced design, 10 cyclists performed three ingestion protocols (NaHCO3 + CAF, NaHCO3 and placebo) followed by a 4-km cycling TT. Results: 100 min after substance ingestion, the magnitude of change in blood pH and bicarbonate concentration [HCO3-] for NaHCO3 + CAF (+0.04 +/- 0.03 and +5.9 +/- 1.6 mmol center dot L-1, respectively, P < .05) and NaHCO3 (+0.02 +/- 0.03 and +4.1 +/- 2.0 mmol center dot L-1, respectively, P < .05) was more pronounced than in placebo (-0.01 +/- 0.02 and 0.4 +/- 0.9 mmol center dot L-1, respectively). The increase in plasma lactate concentration was more pronounced in NaHCO3 + CAF than in NaHCO3 and placebo (P < .05). Mean ventilation and carbon dioxide production were higher in NaHCO3 + CAF compared to NaHCO3 and placebo (P < .05). The PO and anaerobic power output were increased at the beginning of the 4-km TT (P < .05) in NaHCO3 + CAF compared to the other two conditions, resulting in an improved overall performance (P < .05). Conclusion: NaHCO3 + CAF results in a higher PO and increased anaerobic contribution and respiratory parameters during a 4-km cycling TT.		[Correia-Oliveira, Carlos] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Correia-Oliveira, Carlos; Lopes-Silva, Joao Paulo] CESMAC Univ Ctr, R Prof Angelo Neto 51 Farol, BR-57051530 Maceio, Alagoas, Brazil; [Correia-Oliveira, Carlos] CESMAC Univ Ctr, R Prof Angelo Neto 51 Farol, BR-57051530 Maceio, Alagoas, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000783410800001	52	Article; Article		
J	Javier Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Ramon-Llin Mas, Jesus; Crespo, Miguel; Munoz, Diego; Lopez Martinez, Jose Miguel; Sanchez-Pay, Alejandro								Professional padel tennis: Characteristics and effectiveness of the shots played to the fence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				19	3			1324	1331	17479541221093765	10.1177/17479541221093765			JUN 2024	2024	Padel tennis is played on different surfaces and the padel tennis court is made of different materials. This influences how the ball can be played back after it hits or bounces on them. The aim of this study was to analyse the characteristics of shots played to the fence in professional padel tennis. A total of 489 shots to the fence played by the 8 best pairs (16 male and 16 female players) competing in an international professional tournament were recorded. Using an observational methodology, variables such as the distance of the shot to the net, the side of the court from which the shot was played, the trajectory of the shot and the type of shot were analysed and compared according to gender and effectiveness. The results showed that in women's padel, the overhead shot was significantly more used to play the ball to the fence (48.4%) as compared to men's padel (39.9%), where volleys were significantly more used (39.5%) as compared to women's padel (30.5%). Crosscourt shots were significantly more effective (24.2%) than the down the line ones (16.8%). Groundstrokes were the strokes which produced significantly higher number of winners (25.2%) as well as errors (31.1%). As the distance to the net increased, the effectiveness of the shot played to the fence significantly decreased. These data can serve as a reference for padel players and coaches when planning training sessions adapted to the characteristics of the competition.		[Javier Sanchez-Alcaraz, Bernardino; Lopez Martinez, Jose Miguel; Sanchez-Pay, Alejandro] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Valencia, Spain; [Ramon-Llin Mas, Jesus] Univ Valencia, Fac Educ, Dept Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Valencia, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Dept Participat & Educ, Valencia, Spain; [Munoz, Diego] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Valencia, Spain								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000787257200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Saidi, Oussama; Del Sordo, Giovanna; Peyrel, Paul; Sudlow, Anthony; Maso, Freddy; Walrand, Stephane; Duche, Pascale								Night-to-night sleep variability in adolescent rugby players compared to non-athlete matched controls								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			453	461	17479541221084680	10.1177/17479541221084680			APR 2023	2023	Despite the importance of sleep monitoring in the context of sport, few studies to date examined night-to-night sleep variability among adolescent athletes. This study compared night-to-night sleep variation between junior rugby players and age-matched non-athlete adolescents across seven consecutive nights of the in-season competitive phase. This investigation is based on data from a single centre, observational prospective study including 30 adolescents (15 junior rugby players and 15 non-athlete age-matched controls). Sleep was continuously monitored using ambulatory electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings. While the non-athlete controls catch-up on their sleep debt during the weekend by delaying their wake-up time, junior rugby players opt for an earlier bedtime to cope with sport-related travel (Fri: -00:57 h:min; p < 0.001; Sat: -01:58 h:min; p < 0.001) or early school (Mon: -00:55 h:min; p < 0.001). Night-to-night sleep examination identified greater sleep disturbances in junior rugby players the nights before and after the competition SE (Fri: -11%; p < 0.001; Sat: -9 min; p < 0.01). Junior rugby players showed higher IIV in sleep duration (CVTST: + 5.8%; P < 0.001), efficiency (CVSE: + 3.8%; p < 0.001) and staging (CVN2: + 5.4%; p < 0.001; CVN3: + 4.5; p < 0.01 IIV; REM: + 16.4%; p < 0.01). Higher IIV in the young athletes' sleep outcomes could make them even more vulnerable to health and wellness concerns (i.e. overtraining, injury). The study results show the urgent need for an appropriate consideration of sleep regularity in young athletes.		[Saidi, Oussama; Peyrel, Paul] Clermont Auvergne Univ, Lab Adaptat Exercise Physiol & Pathol Condit AME2, F-63000 Clermont Ferrand, France; [Saidi, Oussama; Walrand, Stephane] Ctr Res Human Nutr Auvergne, F-63000 Clermont Ferrand, France; [Saidi, Oussama; Del Sordo, Giovanna; Sudlow, Anthony; Duche, Pascale] Toulon Univ, Lab Impact Phys Act Hlth IAPS, F-83000 Toulon, France; [Peyrel, Paul] Laval Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Quebec City, PQ G1V 0A6, Canada; [Peyrel, Paul] Laval Univ, Quebec Heart & Lung Inst, Quebec City, PQ G1V 4G5, Canada; [Maso, Freddy] Rugby Training Ctr Sport Assoc Montferrandaise, F-63100 Clermont Ferrand, France; [Walrand, Stephane] Clermont Auvergne Univ, Clermont Ferrand Univ Hosp, UNH, INRAE, F-63000 Clermont Ferrand, France; [Saidi, Oussama] Toulon Univ, Lab Impact Phys Act Hlth IAPS, F-83000 Toulon, France								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000783856000001	30	Article; Article		
J	Wedding, C. J.; Gomez, M. A.; Woods, C. T.; Sinclair, W. H.; Leicht, A. S.; Kraak, Wilbur; Jones, Ben; Twist, Craig								Effect of match-related contextual factors on positional performance in the national rugby league								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			832	838	17479541221092525	10.1177/17479541221092525			JUN 2023	2023	Objectives To examine the effects of match-related contextual variables on positional groups and success in the National Rugby League (NRL). Methods Data relating to match location, match outcome, quality of opposition and match type (absolute score differential) from all matches across the 2015-2019 NRL seasons were collected, in addition to 14 previously identified Factors (technical performance indicators). A decision tree, grown using the Exhaustive Chi-square Automatic Interaction Detector (CHAID) algorithm, was used to model the effect of each of these match-related contexts on positional contribution according to match outcome. Results The accuracy of the exhaustive CHAID model in explaining the influence of positional groups on match outcome was 66%. The model revealed four primary splits: interchange forwards, utility backs, adjustables and a group containing the remaining three positional groups (forwards, backs, and interchange). Conclusions Results suggest that interchange forwards, utility backs and adjustables could have a definitive role within the team compared to the remaining positional groups in determining match outcome. In contrast to team-level research, there is a greater emphasis on the importance of defensive actions (e.g. try causes, tackles made) at a positional level than attacking performance indicators. The moderate classification accuracy justifies the use of this approach for examination of the interactions between match-related contextual variables, performance indicators and positional groups.		[Wedding, C. J.; Gomez, M. A.; Woods, C. T.; Sinclair, W. H.; Leicht, A. S.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Wedding, C. J.; Sinclair, W. H.] North Queensland Cowboys Rugby League Football Cl, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Gomez, M. A.] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, Madrid, Spain; [Woods, C. T.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Kraak, Wilbur] Stellenbosch Univ, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Twist, Craig] Univ Chester, Chester, Cheshire, England; [Wedding, C. J.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000783857600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Hastie, Peter A.; Li, Ping; Liu, Hairui; Zhou, Xiang; Kong, Lingsong								The Impact of Sport Education on Chinese Physical Education Majors' Volleyball Content Knowledge and Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			618	626		10.1080/02701367.2022.2026866			JUL 3 2023	2023	Purpose: The preparation of Chinese physical education teachers focuses strongly on movement competence and the development of knowledge about rules and techniques. What is missing are experiences that promote expertise in task design and progressions. The purpose of this study was to examine if participation in classes following the Sport Education model could enhance content expertise by placing students in situations where they were responsible for these tasks. Methods: One hundred and ten physical education majors from a university in central China participated in a semester-long course of volleyball taught using either Traditional Instruction or Sport Education. Pre- and post-course measures were recorded of participants' game performance, common content knowledge (CCK), and specialized content knowledge (SCK). Results: After controlling for pre-intervention scores, statistically significant differences were evident in the posttest scores between the instructional groups for all three measures. The binomial logistic regression model to ascertain the effect of course type on the likelihood that students would reach the benchmark depth of SCK produced statistical significance. Students in the Sport Education classes had 6.67 times higher odds to reach the benchmark than students in the Traditional Instruction classes. Conclusion: The accountability mechanisms specific to Sport Education that have been shown to enhance student motivation and promote knowledge and performance seemed to carry over into this setting. As students in Sport Education were responsible for designing much of their team training, this served to promote their ability to design and sequence tasks based on their team's needs. Implications for physical education teacher education are discussed.		[Hastie, Peter A.; Liu, Hairui] Auburn Univ, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Li, Ping; Zhou, Xiang] Hubei Normal Univ, Huangshi, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Kong, Lingsong] Univ Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Hastie, Peter A.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, 301 Wire Rd, Auburn, AL 36849 USA								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000783397600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Krause, Daniel; Weigelt, Matthias								Mental Rotation of Tactic Board Instructions in Basketball: Domain-Specific Expertise Improves On-Court Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			568	577		10.1080/02701367.2021.2022587			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: In basketball, tactical instructions are presented on tactic boards under temporal constraints (e.g., time-outs). Based on the disparity in the orientation of the tactic board and the players' egocentric on-court visual perspective, there are high affordances in visual-spatial transformation (e.g., mental rotation), which impede information processing and decrease execution accuracy. The aim of this study was to scrutinize how the effect of different orientations of visual tactical displays on information processing demands and execution accuracy is affected by expertise in basketball. Methods: In a mixed-factors-design with two factors, 48 participants were assigned to a group of experienced basketball players (n = 24) and novices (n = 24). They were instructed to execute basketball playing patterns, which were presented on a virtual tactic board in five different spatial disparities to the players' on-court perspective. Results: The self-controlled time for watching the instructions before execution was significantly shorter and spatial accuracy in pattern execution was significantly higher for lower disparities between instruction perspective and on-court perspective. Experienced basketball players displayed shorter observation times as well as higher accuracy as a global effect, being independent of stimulus orientation. Moreover, the effect of orientation on observation times was lower in the experienced group as compared to the novices. Conclusion: Extensive experience over several years with visuo-spatial transformations of tactical instructions reduced, but not eliminated, the effects of model-observer disparity. Accordingly, coaches should align their tactic boards to their players' on-court viewing perspective to enable fast processing and errorless execution of tactical instructions.		[Krause, Daniel; Weigelt, Matthias] Paderborn Univ, Paderborn, Germany; [Krause, Daniel] Paderborn Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Sport & Hlth, Psychol & Movement Sci, Warburger Str 100, D-33098 Paderborn, Germany								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000782854400001	67	Article; Article		
J	Aburto-Corona, Jorge A.; Romero-Torres, Jorge A.; Montero-Herrera, Bryan; Hutchinson, Jasmin C.								Listening to Fast-Tempo Music Improves Physical Performance in Recreational Swimmers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			578	585		10.1080/02701367.2021.2024124			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: To determine whether swimming while listening to fast (140 bpm) or moderate tempo (120 bpm) music enhances physical performance compared to a non-music condition. Methods: Sixteen healthy university students (21.5 +/- 2.3 years) with a minimum of one year of experience swimming front crawl were recruited. All completed four testing sessions. In the first session, a graded exercise treadmill test was performed to establish baseline fitness. The next three visits were at the swimming pool and participants were asked to swim as far as possible in 12-minutes (i.e., Swimming Cooper Test) under each of three randomly assigned conditions: 120 bpm (M120), 140 bpm (M140) and a non-music condition (NM). Results: No significant differences were found between conditions for either heart rate (p > .05) or rating of perceived exertion (p > .05). However, differences were found on distance covered (p = .014) between M120 (305.7 +/- 19.7 m) and M140 (321.2 +/- 19.4 m; p = .035), and on stroke frequency (p = .009) between M120 (48.4 +/- 1.8) and M140 (51.6 +/- 1.9; p = .028). Conclusion: These results suggest that distance covered and the frequency of strokes per minute were greater when participants were exposed to fast tempo music (M140) compared to moderate tempo music (M120) and a non-music condition (NM) in a 12-minute swimming test.		[Aburto-Corona, Jorge A.; Romero-Torres, Jorge A.] Autonomous Univ Baja California, Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico; [Montero-Herrera, Bryan] Univ Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica; [Hutchinson, Jasmin C.] Springfield Coll, Springfield, MA USA; [Aburto-Corona, Jorge A.] Calzada Univ,14418 Parque Ind Int, Tijuana 22390, Baja California, Mexico								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000782698500001	54	Article; Article		
J	Nae, Jenny Almqvist; Cronstrom, Anna								Association between sensorimotor function and visual assessment of postural orientation in patients with ACL injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				160	167		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.04.006			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To investigate the association between sensorimotor function and visual assessment of postural orientation during execution of weight-bearing activities in patients with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Fifty-two individuals (23 women and 29 men, mean (SD) age 26.5 (6.4)) approximately 7 months after ACLR. Main outcome measures: Sensorimotor function (proprioception, ankle dorsiflexion range of motion, and isometric muscle strength of the hip, knee, and trunk) were recorded on the injured leg. Postural orientation errors (POEs) were visually scored from video-recordings of the injured leg during execution of 5 functional tasks, and POE subscales activities of daily living (ADL) and Sport, and Total POE score were used in the analysis. Results: Lower hip external rotation strength was associated with higher Total POE score (B =-24.4, p = 0.041) and higher POE subscale ADL score (B =-24.9, p = 0.03). No associations between sensorimotor function and POE subscale Sport were found. Conclusions: Decreased hip external rotation strength might contribute to higher scores on the POE subscale ADL and the Total POE score, in men and women following ACLR. Future studies will reveal if strengthening of hip external rotation strength improves postural orientation. (c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Nae, Jenny Almqvist] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, POB 157, SE-22100 Lund, Sweden; [Cronstrom, Anna] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Physiotherapy, S-90187 Umea, Sweden; [Nae, Jenny Almqvist] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, POB 157, SE-22100 Lund, Sweden								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000021	42	Article; Article		
J	Alt, Tobias; Nolte, Kevin; Horn, Dennis; Modenbach, Dominik; Knicker, Axel J.; Jaitner, Thomas								Analyses of Isokinetic Thigh Muscle Strength: Camera-Based Assessment Alters the Magnitude, but Not the Message								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	3			783	792		10.1080/02701367.2022.2053648			JUL 3 2023	2023	Background: Thigh muscle strength capacities are major modifiable risk factors for knee and thigh muscle injuries. Therefore, their valid assessment is essential. Most isokinetic knee tests are conducted in a seated position and rely on dynamometer-based data. However, their accuracy is doubtful because axis alignment is erroneous. Purpose: This study investigated if hip angle (flexed vs. extended) and assessment method (dynamometer-based vs. camera-based) affect isokinetic outcome parameters. Methods: Sixteen healthy male participants (27 years, 184 cm, 80 kg) performed discrete isokinetic tests of the knee flexors and extensors (60 degrees/s) while their kinematics were captured (100 fps). Results: Both assessment methods revealed very strong linear relationships (94% <= R-2 <= 98%) although peak moments (d <= 0.87), contractional work (d <= 1.26), and functional knee flexor:extensor ratios (d <= 0.81) significantly differed. Seated knee flexor tests demonstrated the largest knee trajectory center's misalignment (x = 4.0 cm, z = -2.5 cm; 1.37 <= d <= 4.74). Conclusion: Hip-angle induced kinematic changes did not affect the relation between the lever arms, thus causing highly proportional deviations of kinetic parameters. The assessment method altered the magnitude, but not the message of isokinetic knee tests, which should be preferentially performed with extended hip joint to improve axis alignment. Knowledge of these kinetic and kinematic interactions assists practitioners and scientists with isokinetic tests and/or rehabilitation training to ensure reasonable interpretations of gathered isokinetic outcomes.		[Alt, Tobias] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Westphalia, Dortmund, Germany; [Nolte, Kevin; Modenbach, Dominik; Jaitner, Thomas] TU Dortmund Univ, Dortmund, Germany; [Horn, Dennis; Knicker, Axel J.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Knicker, Axel J.] Res Ctr Elite Sports Momentum, Cologne, Germany; [Alt, Tobias] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Westphalia, Dept Mot Anal Biomech & Strength & Conditioning, Strobelallee 60a, D-44139 Dortmund, Germany								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000782889700001	26	Article; Article		
J	Kapnia, Areti K.; Dallas, Constantinos N.; Gerodimos, Vassilis; Flouris, Andreas D.								Impact of Warm-Up on Muscle Temperature and Athletic Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			460	465		10.1080/02701367.2021.2007212			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: We performed two studies to investigate: the minute-by-minute changes in muscle temperature following a 20-min warm-up routine (Study-1) and the impact of the typical post-warm-up period of inactivity on the performance of basketball athletes (Study-2). Method: In Study-1, 26 males (age: 23.6 +/- 6.2 yr; BMI: 24.1 +/- 3.1 kg/m(2)) performed a 20-min cycling warm-up and then rested for 20 min. Tibialis anterior muscle temperature was assessed throughout. In Study-2, six male professional basketball players (age: 24.9 +/- 4.6 yr; BMI: 25.5 +/- 1.8 kg/m(2)) performed a series of basketball performance tests after a 20-min warm-up, as well as 9-min and 23-min into a post-warm-up period of inactivity. Results: On average, muscle temperature increased by 0.1 degrees C every minute during warm-up and dropped by the same amount every minute during inactivity. The increase during warm-up and the decrease during inactivity were higher at the start of each period. A 9-min inactivity period is accompanied by 3.8 +/- 0.6% reduction in countermovement jump (p = .046). A 23-min inactivity period is accompanied by 7.3 +/- 0.7% reduction in lay-up points (p = .027). Conclusion: These two studies show that a 20-min warm-up routine increases muscle temperature but this benefit is lost after a typical post-warm-up inactivity period in high-level basketball, leading to reductions in certain aspects of athletic performance.		[Kapnia, Areti K.; Dallas, Constantinos N.; Gerodimos, Vassilis; Flouris, Andreas D.] Univ Thessaly, Karies, Trikala, Greece; [Flouris, Andreas D.] Univ Thessaly, Fame Lab, Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Karies, Trikala, Greece								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000781783000001	32	Article; Article		
J	Friesen, Kenzie B.; Aguinaldo, Arnel; Oliver, Gretchen D.								Athlete body composition influences movement during sporting tasks: an analysis of softball pitchers' joint angular velocities								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2060853				2022	Softball pitchers are often above-average size and frequently injured; therefore, it is necessary to understand how biomechanics can change according to pitcher body composition. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between joint peak angular velocities and pitch velocity, as well as examine how pitchers' joint angular velocities differ between high and healthy body-fat percentage (BF%) groups. Forty high-school and college softball pitchers (170.6 +/- 6.3 cm, 75.5 +/- 16.1 kg, 16 +/- 2 years, 34.6 +/- 7.4 BF%) completed body composition testing and were placed in one of two groups: 1) high-fat% (>= 32%) or 2) healthy-fat% (<32%). Pitchers completed fastball trials. Kinematic data were tracked using an electromagnetic system synced with motion analysis software. Peak and times-series joint angular velocities were tracked over the final 101 frames of the pitch. Pitch velocity was significantly correlated with peak elbow flexion (r = .380, p = .016) and wrist flexion (r = .621, p < .001) angular velocity. A small difference in elbow joint angular velocity was found between body fat percentage groups between ball release and follow-through (SPM(t)1,38 = 3.296, p = .003). Peak joint angular velocities are related to pitch velocity and slight differences in movement patterns exist according to pitcher body fat percentage.		[Friesen, Kenzie B.] Univ Saskatchewan, Coll Kinesiol, Saskatoon, SK, Canada; [Aguinaldo, Arnel] Point Loma Nazarene Univ, Coll Kinesiol, San Diego, CA USA; [Oliver, Gretchen D.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Friesen, Kenzie B.] Univ Saskatchewan, Coll Kinesiol, Saskatoon, SK, Canada								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000781806800001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Nardello, Francesca; Bernabe, Riccardo; Bettega, Simone; Zandomeneghi, Marco; Zamparo, Paola								Kinematics of Backward Standing Starts in Elite Cyclists: The Effect of Initial Crank Angle								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			476	484		10.1080/02701367.2021.2009109			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: In modern sprint cycling competitions, the athletes perform a preparatory movement that consists in reaching the backmost standing position, quickly accelerating the body forward at the starting signal. The purpose of this study was to investigate the kinematics of backward standing starts in elite cyclists, as well as the effect of initial crank angle. Methods: Video analysis of cycling starts was performed in seven male elite cyclists during 30 m sprints and in 3 starting conditions: seated with a self-selected crank angle (S-ss), backward standing from a self-selected (BSt-ss) or imposed crank angle of 90 degrees (BSt-90 degrees). Average velocity after 5 and 30 m was also measured by means of a photocell system. Results: No differences in starting crank angle were observed between BSt-ss and S-ss (about 64 degrees). The fastest starts were attained in BSt-ss (highest velocity at 5 and 30 m); in this condition, angular downstroke velocity was the highest and the counter movement occurred earlier than in BSt-90 degrees. Significant positive associations were observed between angular velocity in the first downstroke and forward velocity at 5 and 30 m. Conclusions: These findings indicate that backward standing starts improve cycling performance (compared to seated starts), that an initial crank angle < 90 degrees is preferable, and that elite cyclists maintain the initial advantage at least up to a distance of 30 m.		[Nardello, Francesca; Bernabe, Riccardo; Bettega, Simone; Zandomeneghi, Marco; Zamparo, Paola] Univ Verona, Verona, Italy; [Zamparo, Paola] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Via Felice Casorati 43, I-37131 Verona, Italy								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000781684700001	34	Article; Article		
J	de Camargo, Ricardo; Vilaca, Alexandre; Mota, Gustavo R.; Elsangedy, Hassan Mohamed; Haile, Luke; Sasaki, Jeffer Eidi								The Influence of L-menthol on Time Trial Running Performance in Recreational Runners								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			510	518		10.1080/02701367.2021.2014049			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: This study investigated the effects of combined mouth rinse and topical application of L-menthol on perceptual responses and running performance under thermoneutral conditions (22 +/- 2 degrees C and 30-60% relative humidity). Methods: Twelve recreational male runners (age: 31.7 +/- 3.8 years; age range: 27-39 years) completed a familiarization, a control test (CON) and two maximal 10-km time trials (counterbalanced randomized crossover design) performed in different days with a non-thermal cooling intervention (combined application of a L-menthol mouth rinse and topical L-menthol gel - MEN) or placebo (PLA). Performance and perceptual measures (thermal sensation, thermal comfort, ratings of perceived exertion and affective response) were recorded for every km completed in the 10-km test. Results: Performance time was lower in MEN (P = 0.03) and PLA (P = 0.003) compared to CON, but no differences were found between MEN vs PLA (P = 1.00). All perceptual responses increased over time in all conditions (P < 0.0001), but only the thermal sensation was lower (P = 0.01) in the MEN compared to CON. Conclusion: L-menthol strategies promote fresh sensations and may improve running performance in 10-km time trial in recreational runners, but the performance improvement could mainly be due to a placebo effect.		[de Camargo, Ricardo; Vilaca, Alexandre; Mota, Gustavo R.; Sasaki, Jeffer Eidi] Univ Fed Triangulo Mineiro, Uberaba, Brazil; [Elsangedy, Hassan Mohamed] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Haile, Luke] Bloomsburg Univ Penn, Bloomsburg, PA 17815 USA; [Sasaki, Jeffer Eidi] Fed Univ Triangulo Mineiro UFTM, Post Grad Program Phys Educ Exercise Sci Hlth & H, BR-38061500 Uberaba, MG, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000781905000001	40	Article; Article		
J	Broodryk, Retief; Moore, Lee J.; Kruger, Ankebe								Quiet eye training during the rugby union goal-kick: Practice and transfer effects in low- and high-pressure conditions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			414	426	17479541221082631	10.1177/17479541221082631			APR 2023	2023	The present study aimed to examine the effect of a quiet eye training (QET) intervention compared to a technical training (TT) intervention on the visual control and performance of rugby union goal-kickers. Male rugby union players (n = 18, M-age = 21.35 years, SD = 2.03) were randomly assigned into a QET or TT group. Participants completed a pre-test, retention test 1, pressure test, and retention test 2 over six weeks, including a two-week intervention programme. The QET focussed on the QE and performance, while TT focussed on technical aspects of rugby goal-kicking. Each participant performed a total of 50 kicks that consisted of 15 kicks during the pre-test, retention test 1, and retention test 2, and five kicks during the pressure test. Using a Dikablis eye-tracker the QE was measured before (QE-pre), and during (QE-online), the run-up of the goal-kick. The results indicated that QE-pre durations increased from the pre-test to both retention tests and the pressure test for the QET group only (all p's < 0.05, all d's >= 0.08). The QET group also displayed longer QE-pre durations during the pressure and retention tests (all p's < 0.05, all d's >= 0.80), and longer QE-online durations during the pressure test (d = 0.73), compared to the TT group. Finally, the QET group outperformed the TT group during the pressure test (d = 0.72). Thus, overall, our results revealed that a short QET intervention benefitted attentional control and goal-kicking performance, particularly under high-pressure.		[Broodryk, Retief; Kruger, Ankebe] North West Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Phys Act Sport & Recreat Res Focus Area, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Moore, Lee J.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Kruger, Ankebe] North West Univ, Ctr Hlth & Human Performance CHHP, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Broodryk, Retief] North West Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Phys Act Sport & Recreat Res Focus Area, Potchefstroom, South Africa								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000783468500001	42	Article; Article		
J	Fort, Rodney								Rottenberg at Sixty-Five: In Honor of the 20<SUP>th</SUP> Anniversary of the <i>Journal of Sports Economics</i>								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	6			808	825	15270025221091548	10.1177/15270025221091548			AUG 2022	2022	Sports economics is now 65 years old, since Rottenberg's "The Baseball Players' Labor Market". This milestone coincides with the 20(th) anniversary of the Journal of Sports Economics. Rottenberg's two main offerings, the match outcome uncertainty hypothesis and the invariance principle, are reviewed, including empirical verdicts from other recent literature reviews. In addition, perhaps less well-known issues in the literature suggest further investigation of these crucial hypotheses, and others that arise. Finally, the place of the Journal of Sports Economics in the evolution of sports economics is offered.		[Fort, Rodney] Univ Michigan, Sport Management, SKB 3250,800 North Univ, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Fort, Rodney] SKB 3250,800 North Univ, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000782090700001	69	Article; Article		
J	Buchholtz, Kim; Lambert, Mike; Burgess, Theresa L.								A Masterclass on developing clinical tools in sport and exercise medicine using principles of clinimetrics								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				155	159		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.04.003			MAY 2022	2022	Musculoskeletal assessment and skill screening tests are regularly used in sports and exercise science to determine performance levels or injury risk in athletes. Many of these tests are used without having undergone clinimetric evaluation. The steps to develop these screening tests and assessment tools should include a structured process according to the clinimetric principles (conceptual and measurement model, reliability, validity, responsiveness, interpretability, burden, alternative forms, and cultural and language adaptation). This systematic process ensures the test measures what it intends to measure and also quantifies the error around the measurement. In this Masterclass we discuss the systematic development and clinimetric evaluation of clinical and performance tests used in sports and exercise science. We use the sport of mountain biking to provide a contextual example of how these principles may be practically applied. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Buchholtz, Kim; Lambert, Mike] Univ Cape Town, Hlth Phys Act Lifestyle & Sport Res Ctr HPALS, FIMS Int Collaborating Ctr Sports Med, Dept Human Biol,Fac Hlth Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Buchholtz, Kim] LUNEX Int Univ Hlth, Dept Physiotherapy Exercise & Sport, Differdange, Luxembourg; [Burgess, Theresa L.] Univ Cape Town, Groote Schuur Hosp, Div Physiotherapy, Cape Town, South Africa; [Burgess, Theresa L.] Univ Stellenbosch, Ctr Med Eth & Law, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Buchholtz, Kim] Univ Cape Town, Hlth Phys Act Lifestyle & Sport Res Ctr HPALS, FIMS Int Collaborating Ctr Sports Med, Dept Human Biol,Fac Hlth Sci, Cape Town, South Africa								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000020	25	Article; Article		
J	Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis; Schuermans, Joke; Denolf, Sander; Napier, Christopher; Bittencourt, Natalia F. N.; Romanuk, Andres; Tak, Igor; Thorborg, Kristian; Bizzini, Mario; Ramponi, Carlo; Paterson, Colin; Hagglund, Martin; Malisoux, Laurent; Al Attar, Wesam Saleh A.; Samukawa, Mina; Esteve, Ernest; Bakare, Ummkulthoum; Constantinou, Maria; Schneiders, Anthony; Gomes, Alexandre Cavallieri; Florentz, Didier; Kaya, Derya Ozer; Lesmana, Syahmirza Indra; Haroy, Joar; Kuparinen, Vesa; Philips, Nicola; Jenkins, Walter; Wezenbeek, Evi; Witvrouw, Erik								Sports injury prevention programmes from the sports physical therapist's perspective: An international expert Delphi approach								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				146	154		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.04.002			MAY 2022	2022	Objective: To provide consensus on how to plan, organize and implement exercise-based injury prevention program (IPP) in sports. Design: Delphi. Setting: LimeSurvey platform. Participants: Experienced sports physical therapists from the International Federation of Sports Physical Therapy member countries. Main outcome measures: Factors related to sports IPP planning, organization and implementation. Results: We included 305 participants from 32 countries. IPP planning should be based on an athlete's injury history, on pre-season screening results, and on injury rates (respectively, 98%, 92%, 89% agreement). In total 97% participants agreed that IPP organization should depend on the athlete's age, 93% on the competition level, and 93% on the availability of low-cost materials. It was agreed that IPP should mainly be implemented in warm-up sessions delivered by the head or strength/conditioning coach, with physical training sessions and individual physical therapy sessions (respectively, 94%, 92%, 90% agreement). Conclusion: Strong consensus was reached on (1) IPP based on the athlete's injury history, pre-season screening and evidence-based sports-specific injury rates; (2) IPP organization based on the athlete's age, competition level, and the availability of low-cost materials and (3) IPP implementation focussing on warm-up sessions implemented by the strength/conditioning coach, and/or individual prevention sessions by the physical therapist. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Vales Jequitinhonha Mucuri UFVJM, Grad Program Rehabil & Funct Performance, Minas Gerais, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis; Schuermans, Joke; Denolf, Sander; Witvrouw, Erik] Univ Ghent, Dept Phys Therapy & Motor Rehabil, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Minist Educ Brazil, CAPES Fdn, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Napier, Christopher] Univ British Columbia, Dept Phys Therapy, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Bittencourt, Natalia F. N.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Romanuk, Andres] Buenos Aires Argentina & Coordinator Phys Therapy, Consulting Phys Therapy Sports & Clin Director, Recovery Sports Clin, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Tak, Igor] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Thorborg, Kristian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Arthroscop Ctr, Sports Orthopaed Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Bizzini, Mario] Schulthess Clin Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland; [Ramponi, Carlo] Kin Rehabilitat & Orthopaed Ctr, Treviso, Italy; [Paterson, Colin] Univ Brighton, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Eastbourne, England; [Hagglund, Martin] Linkoping Univ, Rehabil & Community Med Unit Physiotherapy, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci Div Prevent, Linkoping, Sweden; [Malisoux, Laurent] Luxembourg Inst Hlth, Dept Populat Hlth, Luxembourg, Luxembourg; [Al Attar, Wesam Saleh A.] Umm Al Qura Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Coll Appl Med Sci, Mecca, Saudi Arabia; [Samukawa, Mina] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Esteve, Ernest] Univ Girona, Univ Sch Hlth & Sport EUSES, Girona, Spain; [Bakare, Ummkulthoum] Univ Witwatersrand, Physiotherapy Dept, Fac Hlth Sci, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Constantinou, Maria] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Schneiders, Anthony] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Gomes, Alexandre Cavallieri] Escola Super Saude Santa Maria, Phys Therapy Dept, Porto, Portugal; [Florentz, Didier] Neuro Musculoskeletal Syst, Sport Physiotherapist, Sportclin CHR Hautesenne, Brussels, Belgium; [Kaya, Derya Ozer] Izmir Katip Celebi Univ, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Fac Hlth Sci, Izmir, Turkey; [Lesmana, Syahmirza Indra] Esa Unggul Univ, Sch Physiotherapy, Jakarta, Indonesia; [Haroy, Joar] Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Sports Med, Oslo, Norway; [Kuparinen, Vesa] Finnish Olymp Comm, Helsinki, Finland; [Kuparinen, Vesa] Finnish Sports physiotherapists Assoc, Helsinki, Finland; [Philips, Nicola] Cardiff Univ, Sch Healthcare Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Jenkins, Walter] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Waters Coll Hlth Profess, Savannah, GA 31419 USA; [Mendonca, Luciana De Michelis] Univ Fed Vales Jequitinhonha, Phys Therapy Dept, Sch Biol & Hlth Sci, Mucuri Rodovia MGT 367,Km 583,5000, BR-39100000 Diamantina, MG, Brazil								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000019	65	Article; Article		
J	de Lima, Tiago R.; Gonzalez-Chica, David A.; D' Orsi, Eleonora; Moreno, Yara M. F.; Sui, Xuemei; Silva, Diego A. S.								Muscle Strength Assessed by Handgrip Strength Moderates the Relationship Between Overweight and Obesity With Cardiometabolic Risk Markers Among Adults and Older Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			409	417		10.1080/02701367.2021.2002246			APR 3 2023	2023	Background and aims: Few population-based studies have studied whether muscle strength (MS) levels influence the relationship between cardiometabolic markers with excess body weight. We investigate the possible moderator role of MS in the relationship between overweight and obesity with cardiometabolic markers. Methods: Cross-sectional analysis using data from two studies in Florianopolis, Brazil (EpiFloripa Adult Cohort Study, n = 862, 39.3 +/- 11.4 years; EpiFloripa Aging Cohort Study, n = 1,197, 69.7 +/- 7.1 years). MS was assessed by handgrip strength. Body mass index (BMI) was classified as overweight or obesity (BMI 25.0-29.9 or >= 30.0 kg/m(2), respectively). Cardiometabolic markers included systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), C-reactive protein (CRP), lipids, glucose markers, and carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT). Linear regression models stratified by age groups (adults: <60 years; older adults: >= 60 years) and adjusted for confounders were used. Results: Compared to those with a normal BMI, overweight and obesity were related to higher SBP, DBP, lnCRP, ln triglycerides, fasting glucose (FG), and glicated hemoglobin (HbA1c), and inversely associated with HDL-C among adults and older adults (p value < .05 for all). Additionally, BMI was positively associated with LDL-C and CIMT only among adults (p value < .05). Among adults and older adults, elevated MS attenuated the adverse relationship between excess body weight with FG and HbA1c. Conclusion: Higher MS might help adults and older adults with overweight or obesity reduce their cardiovascular risk by keeping their FG and HbA1c at the same levels of those with a normal BMI.		[de Lima, Tiago R.; D' Orsi, Eleonora; Moreno, Yara M. F.; Silva, Diego A. S.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Trinity Univ Campus, BR-88010970 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Gonzalez-Chica, David A.] Univ Adelaide, Adelaide Med Sch, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Gonzalez-Chica, David A.] Univ Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Sui, Xuemei] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [de Lima, Tiago R.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Trinity Univ Campus, BR-88010970 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000780815900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Molina-Cardenas, Angela; Alvarez-Yates, Tania; Garcia-Garcia, Oscar								Predicting Hamstring Strains in Soccer Players Based on ROM: An Analysis From a Gender Perspective								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			493	499		10.1080/02701367.2021.2011091			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: The aim of this study was to explore if specific hip and knee range-of-movement (ROM) tests can predict a risk factor for hamstring strain (HS) injury in male and female soccer players. Methods: One hundred amateur soccer players (56 men and 44 women) performed six tests to determine hip and knee ROM: straight leg raise test (SLR), modified Thomas test (TT), hip internal and external rotation (ER), hip abduction and adduction, Nachlas test and Ridge test. A logistic regression analysis was carried out to create a predictive model for HS injuries. Results: The percentage of HS injury was 20.45% and 30.35%, for female and male players. The logistic regression showed a significant model for both genders on the logit of suffering an HS injury with active-SLR and TT variables for females (R-CS(2) = 0.491; R-N(2) = 0.771) and active SLR and ER variables for males (R-CS(2) = 0.623; R-N(2) = 0.882). The predictive models correctly classify 95.5% and 94.6% of cases presenting good sensitivity (77.8% and 88.2%) and full (100%) and high (97.4%) specificity respectively. Furthermore, female players showed a greater ROM than males (p <= 0.01). Conclusion: Both female and male soccer players that suffered a HS injury had lower ROM in SLR, NT and RT and higher ROM in the TT that non-injured players. The tests that most likely predict HS injury are SLR and TT in females and SLR and ER in males. Thus, it is suggested to including specific exercises in amateur soccer players training programs to improve hip and knee ROM for injury prevention.		[Molina-Cardenas, Angela] Univ Malaga, Malaga, Spain; [Alvarez-Yates, Tania; Garcia-Garcia, Oscar] Univ Vigo, Vigo, Spain; [Garcia-Garcia, Oscar] Fac Ciencias Educ & Deporte, Campus Xunqueira, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000779540200001	44	Article; Article		
J	Giuliano, Anita Falk; Correia, Ricardo de A.; Feitosa, Wellington G.; de Souza Castro, Flavio Antonio								Three-dimensional front crawl arm-stroke efficiency and hand displacement in male and female swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2060854				2022	This study aimed (i) to verify if underwater horizontal, vertical and medio-lateral hand displacements (HD), in pull and push phases of the front crawl stroke, can be associated with arm-stroke efficiency (np) and (ii) to compare np and selected kinematic variables between male and female swimmers. Ten male and 10 female swimmers performed an all-out front crawl 25-m test. Data were obtained with six synchronised video cameras (60 Hz) and analysed with a three-dimensional method. Results for males and females were respectively, as follows: (i) horizontal HD: 0.55 +/- 0.06 m and 0.61 +/- 0.09 m (p = 0.062; d = 0.78); vertical HD: 0.68 +/- 0.06 m and 0.58 +/- 0.07 m (p < 0.001; d = 1.53); and medio-lateral HD: 0.22 +/- 0.07 m and 0.16 +/- 0.03 m (p = 0.012; d = 1.11); (ii) np: 0.33 +/- 0.02 and 0.32 +/- 0.03 (p = 0.48; d = 0.39); (iii) vCOM: 1.77 +/- 0.06 m center dot s(-1) and 1.55 +/- 0.10 m center dot s(-1) (p < 0.001; d = 2.42). Multiple linear regression (p = 0.019) indicated that horizontal and medio-lateral HD were able to predict np. The lower the horizontal hand displacement, the higher the np.		[Giuliano, Anita Falk; Correia, Ricardo de A.; Feitosa, Wellington G.; de Souza Castro, Flavio Antonio] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Aquat Sports Res Grp, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia, Danca, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Feitosa, Wellington G.] Univ Estadual Ceara, Fac Phys Educ, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Giuliano, Anita Falk] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Aquat Sports Res Grp, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia, Danca, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000779551000001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Anvar, Saman Hadjizadeh; Kordi, Mohammad Reza; Alizadeh, Shahab; Ramsay, Emma; Shabkhiz, Fatemeh; Behm, David G.								Lack of Evidence for Crossover Fatigue with Plantar Flexor Muscles								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			214	223		10.52082/jssm.2022.214			JUN 2022	2022	The occurrence and mechanisms underlying non-local or crosso-ver muscle fatigue is an ongoing issue. This study aimed to inves-tigate crossover fatigue of the plantar flexor muscles. Sixteen rec-reationally active males (n = 6) and females (n = 10) visited the laboratory for four sessions and performed a single 5-s pre-test maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) with each plan -tar flexors muscle. Thereafter, the fatigue intervention involved two 100-s MVICs (60-s recovery) with their dominant plantar flexors or rested for 260-s (control). Subsequently, in two sepa-rate sessions, Hoffman reflexes (H-reflex) were evoked in the non-dominant, non-exercised, leg before and following the dom-inant leg fatigue or control intervention (Fatigue-Reflex and Con-trol-Reflex conditions). MVIC forces and volitional (V)-waves were monitored in the non-dominant leg in the other two sessions (Fatigue-MVIC and Control-MVIC) before and after the inter-vention (fatigue or control) as well as during 12 repeated MVICs and immediately thereafter. Despite the force reduction in the dominant leg (42.4%, p = 0.002), no crossover force deficit with single (F-(1,F-9) = 0.02, p = 0.88, p eta(2) = 0.003) or repeated (F-(1,F-9) = 0.006, p = 0.93, p eta(2) = 0.001) MVIC testing were observed. The H-reflex did not change after the fatigue (F-(1,F-7) = 0.51; p = 0.49; p eta(2) = 0.06) or repeated MVICs (F-(1,F-8)= 0.27; p = 0.61; p eta(2) = 0.03). There were also no crossover effects of fatigue on the V-wave with single (F-(1,F-8) = 3.71,p = 0.09, p eta(2) = 0.31) or repeated MVICs (F-(1,F-6) = 1.45, p = 0.27, p eta(2) = 0.19). Crossover fatigue was not evident with the plantar flexors nor any significant changes in H-reflex and V-waves in the soleus muscle. This finding suggests that crossover fatigue may not necessarily occur in slow-twitch predominant muscle groups.		[Anvar, Saman Hadjizadeh; Alizadeh, Shahab; Ramsay, Emma; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Anvar, Saman Hadjizadeh; Kordi, Mohammad Reza; Shabkhiz, Fatemeh] Univ Tehran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Tehran, Iran; [Anvar, Saman Hadjizadeh] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000783997500001	58	Article; Article		
J	Mihailovic, Thibaud; Bouzigon, Romain; Bouillod, Anthony; Grevillot, Joris; Ravier, Gilles								Post-Exercise Hyperbaric Oxygenation Improves Recovery for Subsequent Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			427	434		10.1080/02701367.2021.2002797			APR 3 2023	2023	Background: The improvement of athletes' recovery seems crucial to maintaining a high-performance level. Since hyperbaric oxygenation (HBO) could be a valuable recovery method, this study aimed at determining the effects of post-exercise HBO at modest pressure (97% O-2; 1.3 ATA) on physiological response and subsequent cycling performance compared to passive recovery (PR; 21% O-2; 1 ATA). Methods: Twelve trained cyclists completed two testing sessions in a random crossover design. Both sessions consisted of one fatiguing exercise immediately followed by either HBO or PR recovery intervention (75 minutes), then a 5-minute maximal cycling effort. Cycling power output, heart rate variability (HRV) during recovery, blood lactate, and the rating of perceived exertion (RPE) were analyzed and compared between conditions. Results: Compared with PR, the cycling power output was significantly higher after HBO (307.5 +/- 19.0 W vs 314.5 +/- 19.3 W; p = .005; ES = 0.11 [-0.70-0.90]). Moreover, several HRV indices revealed an improvement in HRV recovery in HBO condition. Blood lactate was not significantly different between conditions, neither following the fatiguing exercise nor the maximal effort. HBO decreased RPE after maximal cycling effort and improved the perceived recovery the day after testing sessions (p < .001). Conclusion: This study suggests that HBO is an efficient strategy to improve cardiac parasympathetic reactivation and is beneficial for subsequent performance.		[Mihailovic, Thibaud; Bouzigon, Romain; Bouillod, Anthony; Grevillot, Joris; Ravier, Gilles] Univ Franche Comte, Besancon, France; [Mihailovic, Thibaud; Bouzigon, Romain; Grevillot, Joris] Inside The Athletes 3 0 ITA, Besancon, France; [Mihailovic, Thibaud] Inside Athletes 3 0, 56 Chemin Montarmots, F-25000 Besancon, France								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000779268500001	30	Article; Article		
J	Hills, Samuel P.; Crang, Zachary L.; Russell, Mark; Johnston, Rich D.; Collins, Neil; Fiel, Adam								The pre- and post-pitch-entry physical and technical responses of rugby league interchange players according to starting status								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			822	831	17479541221089306	10.1177/17479541221089306			JUN 2023	2023	This study quantified the activities of interchange players during the 15 min before and 20 min after initial pitch-entry (INTentry) or re-entry (INTre-entry) for substitutes and starters, respectively, and identified relationships between pre- and post-pitch-entry responses. Fourteen semi-professional rugby league players wore Microelectromechanical Systems and were filmed throughout 10 matches in which they were interchanged (68 observations). Twelve physical and technical variables were analyzed for the pre-match warm-up, five, 10, and 15 min before INTentry or INTre-entry (physical variables only), and five min epochs following match-introduction. Linear mixed models indicated that during the 0-5 min following INTentry, physical and technical responses were typically greater (similar to 7.1% to 66.3%) than subsequent epochs while total (similar to 6.2%) and high-speed (37.1%) distance also exceeded the 0-5 min after INTre-entry (p < 0.05). Edge forwards reached higher peak speeds (11.4% to 11.7%) than hookers and middle forwards, but hookers completed more passes (87.4% to 90.5%). Pre-pitch-entry movements were positively associated with post-pitch-entry tackles (r = 0.43 to 0.49) and high-speed distance (r = 0.46), but negatively associated with total distance (r = -0.32 to -0.68). Within tolerable limits, increasing the activity performed during the similar to 15 min before pitch-entry could benefit high-speed match-play performance indicators. Transient changes in post-pitch-entry physical and technical responses could reflect self-pacing strategies, contextual factors, or perceived preparedness. The apparent absence of progressive performance-limiting fatigue, characterized by a plateau in responses after the initial five min following INTentry or INTre-entry, may suggest a role for interchange players to provide a more sustained impact and thus achieve interchange objectives.		[Hills, Samuel P.] Bournemouth Univ, Fac Hlth & Social Sci, Bournemouth, Dorset, England; [Crang, Zachary L.; Johnston, Rich D.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Russell, Mark] Leeds Trinity Univ, Fac Hlth Sport & Life Sci, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Johnston, Rich D.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Collins, Neil] Leeds Beckett Univ, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Fiel, Adam] Univ Huddersfield, Huddersfield, W Yorkshire, England; [Hills, Samuel P.] Bournemouth Univ, Fac Hlth & Social Sci, Bournemouth, Dorset, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000780953000001	32	Article; Article		
J	Imura, Akiko; Iino, Yoichi; Koike, Sekiya								Dancers utilize a 'whip-like effect' to increase arm angular momentum during multiple-revolution <i>pirouette en dehors</i>								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2056074				2022	A pirouette en dehors (PeDh) is multiple turns using the angular momentum generated by swinging the arms with both feet on the ground. The purpose of this study was to investigate how the arm swing facilitates increasing peak angular momenta of both arms during multiple PeDh. Upper body movements in single to six-revolutions clockwise (as seen from above) PeDhs were analysed to determine arm's angular momentum induced by the individual joint torque, gravitational force and motion-dependent terms. The horizontal abduction and adduction torques of the right and left shoulder joints, respectively, and clockwise torsional torque of the upper torso induced the clockwise angular momentum (CWAM) of the arms in the horizontal plane, about the vertically upward axis. The motion-dependent term induced the CWAMs after joint torques and contributed to the maximum total CWAM of both arms substantially. The CWAMs induced by the motion-dependent term increased with joint torques up to the triple PeDh in the right arm but independently from the left shoulder joint torque up to the sextuple PeDh in the left arm. Using a whip-like motion of the arm, increasing the arm joint torques would not be required necessarily when performing, i.e., more than quaruple PeDhs.		[Imura, Akiko] Tokyo Metropolitan Univ, Dept Hlth Promot Sci, Percept & Act Lab, Tokyo, Japan; [Iino, Yoichi] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Koike, Sekiya] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Imura, Akiko] Tokyo Metropolitan Univ, Dept Hlth Promot Sci, Percept & Act Lab, Tokyo, Japan								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000778664200001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Plesek, Jan; Hamill, Joseph; Blaschova, Denisa; Freedman-Silvernail, Julia; Jandacka, Daniel								Acute effects of footwear on running impact loading in the preschool years								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	3			442	458		10.1080/14763141.2022.2058599			MAR 4 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to assess acute effects of footwear conditions (barefoot, minimalist and standard running shoes) on running impact loading in the preschool years. Fourty-eight habitually shod preschool children (26 males and 22 females) were divided into four age groups (3-, 4-, 5- and 6-year-old). Children performed a simple running game in three different conditions. Three-dimensional biomechanical analysis was carried out during overground running. Statistical parametric mapping was performed on the vertical ground reaction force profiles during the stance phase and one-way repeated measures ANOVA on the vertical instantaneous loading rate. Three-year-old children displayed significantly lower vertical ground reaction force values in the barefoot condition compared to minimalist (3-7% stance) and standard running shoes (7-11% stance). There were also differences in vertical instantaneous loading rate, where 3-year-olds had lower loading when barefoot than in minimalist (p = 0.010, d = 1.19) or running shoes (p = 0.045, d = 0.98), despite no differences in the footstrike pattern (mostly rearfoot-midfoot strike). No differences were found for the older children. Running in minimalist shoes did not imitate barefoot running in 3-year-old children. On the contrary, increased loading was observed in minimalist shoes in early running developmental stages.		[Plesek, Jan; Hamill, Joseph; Blaschova, Denisa; Freedman-Silvernail, Julia; Jandacka, Daniel] Univ Ostrava, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Hamill, Joseph] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Kinesiol, Biomech & Motor Control Labs, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Freedman-Silvernail, Julia] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Plesek, Jan] Univ Ostrava, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000777926500001	47	Article; Article		
J	Hakkinen, Keijo; Newton, Robert U.; Walker, Simon; Hakkinen, Arja; Krapi, Sonja; Rekola, Rebekka; Koponen, Paivi; Kraemer, William J.; Haff, G. Gregory; Blazevich, Anthony J.; Nosaka, Kazunori; Ahtiainen, Juha								Effects of Upper Body Eccentric versus Concentric Strength Training and Detraining on Maximal Force, Muscle Activation, Hypertrophy and Serum Hormones in Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			200	213		10.52082/jssm.2022.200			JUN 2022	2022	Effects of eccentric (ECC) versus concentric (CON) strength training of the upper body performed twice a week for 10 weeks followed by detraining for five weeks on maximal force, muscle activation, muscle mass and serum hormone concentrations were investigated in young women (n = 11 and n = 12). One-repetition bench press (1RM), maximal isometric force and surface electro-myography (EMG) of triceps brachii (TB), anterior deltoid (AD) and pectoralis major (PM), cross-sectional area (CSA) of TB (Long (LoH) and Lateral Head (LaH)) and thickness of PM, as well as serum concentrations of free testosterone, cortisol, folli-cle-stimulating hormone, estradiol and sex hormone-binding globulin were measured. ECC and CON training led to increases of 17.2 +/- 11.3% (p < 0.001) and 13.1 +/- 5.7% (p < 0.001) in 1RM followed by decreases of-6.6 +/- 3.6% (p < 0.01) and-8.0 +/- 4.5% (p < 0.001) during detraining, respectively. Isometric force in-creased in ECC by 11.4 +/- 9.6 % (p < 0.05) from week 5 to 10, while the change in CON by 3.9 +/- 6.8% was not significant and a between group difference was noted (p < 0.05). Maximal total integrated EMG of trained muscles increased only in the whole subject group (p < 0.05). CSA of TB (LoH) increased in ECC by 8.7 +/- 8.0% (p < 0.001) and in CON by 3.4 +/- 1.6% (p < 0.01) and differed between groups (p < 0.05), and CSA of TB (LaH) in ECC by 15.7 +/- 8.0% (p < 0.001) and CON by 9.7 +/- 6.6% (p < 0.001). PM thickness increased in ECC by 17.7 +/- 10.9% (p < 0.001) and CON by 14.0 +/- 5.9% (p < 0.001). Total muscle sum value (LoH + LaH + PM) increased in ECC by 12.4 +/- 6.9% (p < 0.001) and in CON by 7.1 +/- 2.9% (p < 0.001) differing between groups (p < 0.05) and decreased during detraining in ECC by-6.5 +/- 4.3% (p < 0.001) and CON by-6.1 +/- 2.8% (p < 0.001). The post detraining combined sum value of CSA and thickness was in ECC higher (p < 0.05) than at pre training. No changes were detected in serum hormone concentrations, but baseline free testosterone levels in the ECC and CON group combined correlated with changes in 1RM (r = 0.520, p < 0.016) during training. Large neuromuscular adaptations of the upper body occurred in women during ECC, and CON training in 10 weeks. Isometric force increased only in response to ECC, and total muscle sum value increased more dur -ing ECC than CON training. However, no changes occurred in serum hormones, but individual serum-free testosterone baseline concentrations correlated with changes in 1RM during strength training in the entire group. Both groups showed significant de-creases in neuromuscular performance and muscle mass during detraining, while post detraining muscle sum value was only in ECC significantly higher than at pre training.		[Hakkinen, Keijo; Walker, Simon; Krapi, Sonja; Rekola, Rebekka; Ahtiainen, Juha] Univ Jyvaskyla, Neuromuscular Res Ctr, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Newton, Robert U.; Nosaka, Kazunori] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Exercise Med Res Inst, Churchlands, WA 6018, Australia; [Hakkinen, Arja; Koponen, Paivi] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Haff, G. Gregory; Blazevich, Anthony J.; Nosaka, Kazunori] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Churchlands, WA, Australia; [Hakkinen, Keijo] Univ Jyvaskyla, Neuromuscular Res Ctr, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000782129200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus Juan; Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco; Papic, Christopher; Gay, Ana; Morales-Ortiz, Esther; Lopez-Contreras, Gracia; Arellano, Raul								Does jumping conducted before the swimming start elicit underwater enhancement?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			427	436	17479541221078279	10.1177/17479541221078279			APR 2023	2023	The effects of pre-activation exercises on undulatory underwater swimming (UUS) have not been studied. This research aimed to: 1) assess the effects of a jumping-exercise strategy upon UUS performance and kinematics variables; 2) test the different effects on males and females, and; 3) to explore if stronger participants exhibit greater post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE). Ninety-two age-group national level swimmers randomly assigned into control (17 males and 18 females) and experimental groups (27 males and 30 females) took part in a cross-sectional study designed to test two maximal 15-m UUS performance efforts. The experimental group performed four maximal tuck jumps before the first or the second UUS effort. Performance and kinematics variables were analyzed using instantaneous velocity data via speedometer. Maximal lower-limbs force was obtained during a countermovement jump through a linear-encoder. Two-way repeated measures ANOVA test and linear regression analysis were used to explore variable interactions between baseline and PAPE, and the association between the PAPE response and strength of the swimmers, respectively. Despite trends toward improvements in push-off velocity (Delta = 1.33%; d = 0.12), the results did not show enhancements nor deterioration in UUS performance and kinematics after the tuck jumps. No specific PAPE responses modulated by sex or by the strength level of the swimmers were observed for this age-group (p < 0.05). Four tuck jump repetitions executed prior to diving could be insufficient to acutely enhance UUS performance. The fact that the exercise performed during warm-up was a body-weight based exercise, was possibly not enough to evoke PAPE.		[Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus Juan; Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco; Gay, Ana; Morales-Ortiz, Esther; Lopez-Contreras, Gracia; Arellano, Raul] Univ Granada, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Aquat Lab, Alfacar S-N, Granada 18011, Spain; [Papic, Christopher] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco] Univ Granada, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Aquat Lab, Alfacar S-N, Granada 18011, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000782109300001	38	Article; Article		
J	Rangel, Wellington; Fellingham, Gilbert; Santana, Felipe; Lamas, Leonardo								Integrated evaluation of team strategy, training practices and game performance of a basketball team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			197	206	17479541221076621	10.1177/17479541221076621			FEB 2023	2023	An important task of a basketball coach is to transfer information between game performance and team preparation. Therefore, the goals of this study were twofold: i) to define a framework encompassing the steps of team strategy, training practices, and game performance - the Team Learning Cycle (TLC); ii) to test TLC's support for evaluation of team preparation-competition coherence with a junior basketball team. Team plays were assigned as an independent variable, systematically measured along the TLC. Frequency, diversity, and efficiency (points per possession) of plays performed in a game were compared both with alternatives of plays in the team strategy and emphasis during practices. TLC was implemented in a customized software for improving data acquisition reliability. We used a cluster analysis to group team plays according to similarities of offensive features and we applied Bayesian methods to compute the posterior distributions of the parameters describing minutes planned for team plays and training variables. Plays proportions were compared between practices and game. The 25 plays variations were grouped in seven clusters suggesting strategic diversity. Training presented significant tendencies towards offense phase, with opposition (emphasis on tactics) and situational practices (games and competition) - p(robability) > .90. The seven clusters of plays had a large variance in their training volume. The most frequently performed plays in the game were not those most trained but they had the most points per possession in the game. Results evidence the TLC may help coaches interpret the ongoing learning process of the team, improving team's preparation.		[Rangel, Wellington; Lamas, Leonardo] Univ Brasilia, Fac Phys Educ, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Fellingham, Gilbert] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Stat, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Santana, Felipe] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Rangel, Wellington] Univ Brasilia, Fac Phys Educ, Lab Anal Desempenho Esporte LADESP, Campus Darcy Ribeiro, Brasilia, DF, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000778222600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Tengman, E.; Schelin, L.; Hager, C. K.								Angle-specific torque profiles of concentric and eccentric thigh muscle strength 20 years after anterior cruciate ligament injury								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2054856				2022	Thigh muscle weakness prevails following anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury, as usually evaluated by peak concentric quadriceps strength. Assessment throughout the range of motion (ROM), and for antagonists may provide more comprehensive information. We evaluated angle-specific torque profiles and ratios of isokinetic thigh muscle strength in 70 individuals 23 +/- 2 years post-ACL injury (44males, 46.9 +/- 5.4 years); 33 treated with ACL-reconstruction (ACL-R), and 37 treated only with physiotherapy (ACL-PT), and 33 controls. Quadriceps and hamstrings torques for concentric/eccentric contractions (90 degrees/s) and ratios between hamstrings/quadriceps strength (HQ) were compared between and within groups using inferential functional data methods. The injured ACL-R leg had lower concentric and eccentric quadriceps strength compared to non-injured leg throughout the ROM, and lower concentric (interval 70-79 degrees) and eccentric (64-67 degrees) quadriceps strength compared to controls. The injured ACL-PT leg showed lower eccentric quadriceps strength (53-77 degrees) than non-injured leg and lower concentric (41-79 degrees) and eccentric (52-81 degrees) quadriceps and eccentric hamstrings (30-77 degrees) strength than controls. There were no group differences for HQ-ratios. The injured ACL-R leg had higher HQ-ratio (34-37 degrees) than non-injured leg. Angle-specific torque profiles revealed strength deficits, masked if using only peak values, and seem valuable for ACL-injury rehabilitation.		[Tengman, E.; Hager, C. K.] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Sect Physiotherapy, Umea, Sweden; [Schelin, L.] Umea Univ, Umea Sch Business Econ & Stat, Dept Stat, Umea, Sweden; [Tengman, E.] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Sect Physiotherapy, Umea, Sweden								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000777927100001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Timmons, James F.; Beatty, Andrew; Stout, Conor; Ivory, Ailbhe; Carroll, Ciaran; Egan, Brendan								Increased Lean Body Mass After Bodyweight-Based High Intensity Interval Training in Overweight and Obese Men								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			418	426		10.1080/02701367.2021.2002247			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: The effects of 8 weeks of bodyweight exercise-based, high-intensity interval training (BWHIIT) on body composition and blood-based markers of metabolic health were investigated in overweight and obese, sedentary young men. Methods: In a parallel group, PRE-POST design, n = 30 men (age, 25.7 +/- 4.3 y; body mass index, 27.7 +/- 2.1 kg m(-2); 26.1 +/- 5.2% body fat) were randomized to BWHIIT (n = 20) or a control group (CON; n = 10). BWHIIT consisted of supervised, group-based training sessions (similar to 30 minutes) performed 3 times weekly. Each session consisted of 6 high-intensity bodyweight-based exercises, with each exercise being performed for 4 minutes in the manner of 8 sets of 20 seconds of exercise, 10 seconds of rest. Prior to commencing training (PRE), and 36 h after the final training session (POST), an overnight fasted blood sample was drawn, and body composition was assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Eighteen participants completed the intervention (CON, n = 9; BWHIIT, n = 9). Results: Lean body mass (LBM) was increased at POST in BWHIIT compared to CON (P = .011, eta(2)(p) = .359), with the mean (95% confidence limits) increase in LBM from PRE to POST within BWHIIT being 1.23 (0.55, 1.92) kg. Body mass and fat mass were unchanged in both groups from PRE to POST. BWHIIT had no effect on serum concentrations of total cholesterol, HDL-C, LDL-C, triglycerides, NEFA, hsCRP, or glucose. Conclusion: Eight weeks of bodyweight exercise-based high intensity interval training by overweight and obese sedentary young men increased LBM by similar to 2%, but fat mass and blood-based markers of metabolic health were unchanged.		[Timmons, James F.; Beatty, Andrew; Stout, Conor; Ivory, Ailbhe; Carroll, Ciaran] Univ Coll Dublin, Dublin, Ireland; [Egan, Brendan] Dublin City Univ, Dublin, Ireland; [Egan, Brendan] Florida Inst Human & Machine Cognit, Pensacola, FL USA; [Egan, Brendan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin 9, Ireland								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000777100100001	52	Article; Article		
J	Silva Batista, Marco Tulio; Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi; Martins, Cristiane Alves; de Holanda Marinho Nogueira, Nathalya Gardenia; Ferreira, Barbara de Paula; Benda, Rodolfo Novellino								Expectation of Teaching and Self-Controlled KR in Motor Skills Acquisition: Are There Additive Effects?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			391	400		10.1080/02701367.2021.1999891			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Recent evidence suggests learning a motor skill with the expectation of teaching it enhances motor learning. The mechanisms underlying this effect seem to be similar to those of another motor learning condition, the self-control of knowledge of results (KR). Considering the similarities between the mechanisms that underlie these conditions, we aimed to investigate the learning effects obtained through expected teaching and self-controlled conditions, and whether these effects would be additive. Methods: Participants practiced a dart-throwing task under one of the following conditions: a) expecting to teach the skill; b) controlling the KR request; c) combining the two previous conditions; and d) receiving KR in a yoked condition with self-controlled participants. In acquisition phase, motivational aspects, strategies for requesting KR and aspects related to the expectation of teaching were assessed according to each condition. Results: Participants with control over KR and/or with the expectation of teaching the skill showed superior learning of the task compared to the control condition. However, the combination of the experimental conditions did not result in additive learning benefits. Increased perceived competence was found in expecting to teach, self-controlled and combined conditions, compared to the yoked group. Additionally, expecting to teach also affected the way and the frequency learners requested KR. Conclusions: Our findings provide important insights toward understanding the effects of expecting to teach, in addition to demonstrating that expecting to teach affects self-controlled KR scheduling and its use during motor skill acquisition.		[Silva Batista, Marco Tulio; Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi; Martins, Cristiane Alves; de Holanda Marinho Nogueira, Nathalya Gardenia; Ferreira, Barbara de Paula] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Silva Batista, Marco Tulio] Ctr Mineiro Ensino Super, Campo Belo, Brazil; [Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi] Ctr Instrucao & Adaptacao Aeronaut, Forca Aerea Brasileira, Lagoa Santa, Brazil; [Benda, Rodolfo Novellino] Univ Fed Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Aeronaut Instruct & Adaptat Ctr, Brazilian Air Force, Av Presidente Carlos Luz 6627, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000777411400001	31	Article; Article		
J	Pino Diaz-Pereira, Maria; Lopez-Araujo, Yannick; Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel								Examining Variations Between Everyday Life Handedness and Lateral Preferences for Sport-Specific Skills in Children								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			368	373		10.1080/02701367.2021.1994121			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: This study aimed to analyze both sport-specific lateral preferences and handedness for everyday life tasks among school-aged children. Method: A total of 533 children (254 males and 279 females) aged 6 to 15 years old were assessed. Children's handedness was determined according to the laterality score from Edinburgh Handedness Inventory (EHI), while lateral preferences were assessed for 16 different sport-specific tasks. Results: The percentage of children with a left hand preference was lower for unilateral (10.5-14.3%) than for bilateral (19.5-31.7%) tasks. An increased prevalence of left-sided preference was also obtained for foot tasks (13.3-26.8%) and rotation along the vertical axis (28.5%). Similarly, hand preference for unilateral sport-specific tasks and EHI scores were largely correlated (r = 0.551-0.630), while these correlations were lower for bilateral hand tasks (r = 0.148-0.418), foot tasks (r = 0.201-0.386) and rotation preference (r = 0.129). Moreover, left-handed children evidenced less lateralized behavior for sport-specific tasks than right-handed children. Conclusions: The current study has shown that sport-specific lateral preferences and their correlations with handedness vary considerably depending on the task and individual characteristics in developmental ages. These findings emphasize the relevance of task-specific assessments of lateral preferences when looking at sports skills during childhood.		[Pino Diaz-Pereira, Maria; Lopez-Araujo, Yannick; Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel] Univ Vigo, Pontevedra, Spain; [Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel] Univ Vigo, Fac Ciencias Educ & Deporte, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000776144500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Chorney, Emma; Simonson, Shawn R.								Comprehensive Needs Analysis for Women's Collegiate Lacrosse								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	2			1	9		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000662			APR 2022	2022	The purpose of this article is to provide a needs analysis of the women's collegiate lacrosse game as it has not been adequately described elsewhere. This needs analysis will describe the current state of knowledge and identify gaps to assist in the design of comprehensive and successful strength and conditioning programs. There are differences between men's and women's lacrosse, and the limited data suggest strength and conditioning programs similar to soccer and basketball with consideration of upper-body involvement and stick handling. Additional testing of successful athletes, analysis of events, and establishment of norms will enhance understanding of the game and strength and conditioning practices.		[Chorney, Emma; Simonson, Shawn R.] Boise State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Boise, ID 83725 USA; [Simonson, Shawn R.] Boise State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Boise, ID 83725 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000774204600001	23	Article; Article		
J	Young, Kaycie L.; Morris, Brandon; Herda, Trent J.								The Role of Strength and Conditioning in the Prevention and Treatment of Chronic Lateral Ankle Instability								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	2			61	75		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000648			APR 2022	2022	Lateral ankle sprains are one of the most common injuries sustained during sport or physical activity. Up to 40% of individuals can develop chronic lateral ankle instability (CLAI) after a lateral ankle sprain. CLAI occurs when functional or mechanical insufficiencies of the lateral ankle ligamentous complex persist. The purpose of this article is to identify characteristics of CLAI and describe strength and conditioning strategies that can be used to treat lateral ankle ligamentous injuries, preventing them from progressing on to CLAI (See Video, Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A306).		[Young, Kaycie L.; Herda, Trent J.] Univ Kansas, Neuromech Lab, Dept Hlth Sport & Exercise Sci, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA; [Morris, Brandon] Kansas Univ Hlth Syst, Dept Orthoped Surg, Orthoped Sports Med, Kansas City, KS USA; [Herda, Trent J.] Univ Kansas, Neuromech Lab, Dept Hlth Sport & Exercise Sci, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000774204600006	118	Article; Article		
J	Plush, Matthew G.; Guppy, Stuart N.; Nosaka, Kazunori; Barley, Oliver R.								Exploring the Physical and Physiological Characteristics Relevant to Mixed Martial Arts								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	2			52	60		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000649			APR 2022	2022	Mixed martial arts (MMA) is a combat sport encompassing multiple methods of victory, including knockout, submission, and decision. Although research exists investigating physical and physiological characteristics important to MMA success, there is no consensus on the characteristics essential to performance and best practice for the assessment of such characteristics. Understanding the range of potential competitive approaches to MMA, it is difficult to determine 1 single physiological profile. Strength has been identified as a predictor of performance in combat sports, including MMA, wrestling, and Brazilian jiu jitsu (BJJ). Aerobic and anaerobic conditioning has been explored in combat sports, including BJJ, judo, boxing, kickboxing, and MMA, and has varying relationships to higher-level performance. Repeat effort ability, flexibility, and body composition have also been investigated, but there is a lack of depth in the literature. However, the use of other combat sports literature is not ideal and must be considered critically because of the complexity of MMA. Because MMA has multiple potential competitive styles, the previously mentioned characteristics may vary between successful athletes. Given the multifactorial nature of competition and methods to victory in MMA, further investigation into the physiological and physical characteristics should be undertaken for the advancement of the sport.		[Plush, Matthew G.; Guppy, Stuart N.; Nosaka, Kazunori; Barley, Oliver R.] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Plush, Matthew G.] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000774204600005	70	Article; Article		
J	Parten, Alyssa L.; Herron, Robert L.								Strength and Conditioning for the Roller Derby Athlete								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	2			45	51		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000652			APR 2022	2022	Roller derby's popularity has surged in recent decades. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first strength and conditioning publication to address roller derby. This article outlines an overview of the sport, discusses sport-specific strength and conditioning considerations, and is intended to educate coaches and athletes on the needs of this athletic population. The sport evolved to its current competitive format in 2001 with rules to prevent the theatrics of previous years. The article will present a needs analysis, review current research on relevant-injury prevalence, and outline practical strength and conditioning considerations to enhance performance, reduce injury risk, and increase longevity for roller derby athletes. Finally, the article highlights the need for more sport-specific scientific research to advance roller derby and support its athletes.		[Parten, Alyssa L.] Concordia Univ Chicago, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, River Forest, IL 60305 USA; [Herron, Robert L.] US Sports Acad, Dept Sports Exercise Sci, Daphne, AL USA; [Parten, Alyssa L.] Concordia Univ Chicago, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, River Forest, IL 60305 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000774204600004	41	Article; Article		
J	Judge, Lawrence W.; Brown, Nate; Schoeff, Makenzie A.; Bellar, David M.; Craig, Bruce W.								Using High-Volume Warm-Ups to Improve Performance in Paralympic Throwers								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	2			125	130		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000631			APR 2022	2022	The chronic effects of the asymmetrical biomechanical demands placed on the body of Paralympic throwers stress the importance of proper preparation. The usage of high-volume preactivity warm-ups has generated a great deal of interest within the strength and conditioning community. However, it has not been used with Paralympic throwers. This column will examine the applicability of a high-volume preactivity warm-up for Paralympic track and field throwers.		[Judge, Lawrence W.; Craig, Bruce W.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Brown, Nate] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Exercise Sci, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Schoeff, Makenzie A.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Phys Fitness & Wellness, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Bellar, David M.] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Dept Kinesiol, Charlotte, NC USA; [Judge, Lawrence W.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000774204600011	16	Article; Article		
J	Schroeder, Nicole								Evidence-Based Nutritional Strategies to Enhance Athletic Performance								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	2			33	44		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000642			APR 2022	2022	In today's digital era, nutritional information, and misinformation, is readily available for most people by media outlets, social media, and on-line streaming videos. Nutrition is of utmost interest because of its role in health, fitness, weight management, and athletic performance. Because of the public interest and information availability, qualified health care providers and exercise professionals can be an excellent source of evidence-based nutrition counseling for appropriate clients to improve overall health and athletic performance. The goal of this article is to provide a source of practitioner and client evidence-based education regarding nutritional strategies to improve athletic performance.		[Schroeder, Nicole] Univ Findlay, Phys Therapy Dept, Findlay, OH 45840 USA; [Schroeder, Nicole] Univ Findlay, Phys Therapy Dept, Findlay, OH 45840 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000774204600003	82	Article; Article		
J	Zhao, Yangqing; Zhang, Hui								Sabotage in dynamic tournaments with heterogeneous contestants: Evidence from European football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			552	562	17479541221078647	10.1177/17479541221078647			APR 2023	2023	This paper analyses how sabotage, measured as the number of fouls and yellow and red cards, is affected by the relative performance of and asymmetries between teams, determined based on score margin and the odds gap between one team and its opponent. By applying detailed controls for within-match dynamics and differences in team quality, we first observe that badly losing favourites are more willing than losing underdogs to increase their unsporting behaviour in heterogeneous contests. There are more yellow cards and fouls as the game progresses. We further find that most sabotage (yellow cards) can be observed when the (absolute) goal difference is equal to 1. Teams decrease their level of sabotage (fouls) by increasing the number of goals of lead or trail. In addition, weaker teams have an incentive to engage in more unfair and destructive strategies, such as committing more fouls, including those penalized with yellow cards. However, the incidence of red cards is not influenced by the score margin or strength gap.		[Zhao, Yangqing] Wenzhou Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Hlth, Wenzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Hangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Hui] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Sport Sci, Hangzhou, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000777713900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Jose Pulido, Juan; Angel Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel; Diaz-Garcia, Jesus; Angel Tapia, Miguel; Leo, Francisco M.; Tia, Henri								Assessing coaches' basic psychological need satisfaction and need frustration: preliminary validation from a multidimensional approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			254	263		10.1177/17479541211053860			APR 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to adapt and validate the Basic Psychological Needs in Exercise (BPNES) and the Psychological Need Thwarting Scale (PNTS) to merge both measures and create a specific scale for the coaching context. Two studies were conducted. In Study 1, three sports psychologist experts adapted two instruments to analyze the coaches' psychological needs on a single and multidimensional scale. Also, the content validity and comprehension of the scale were evaluated by 37 coaches (M-age = 33.03 +/- 10.65; work experience = 8.79 +/- 6.57 years). In Study 2, we tested other psychometric properties (i.e. confirmatory factor analysis, reliability, and concurrent validity) of the final version of the scale with 352 coaches (M-age = 32.88 +/- 11.14; work experience = 8.03 +/- 8.18 years) from four collective sports (soccer = 227; basketball = 69; handball = 43; and volleyball = 13). We tested a first-order six-factor solution of CBPN-Q and an H-CFA by including two second-order latent factors of need satisfaction and need frustration. The first-order six-factor solution obtained a better fit to the model than the H-CFA solution. The standardized factor loadings were positively significant and higher than.47. An adequate internal consistency was also obtained, and the concurrent validity of the scale was calculated with the types of motivation. These findings provide a valid and reliable scale to measure need satisfaction and need frustration in the field of coaching.		[Tia, Henri] Univ Tartu, Tartu, Estonia; [Jose Pulido, Juan; Angel Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel; Diaz-Garcia, Jesus; Angel Tapia, Miguel] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Leo, Francisco M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Teacher Training, Avda Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Leo, Francisco M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Teacher Training, Avda Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000772907400003	44	Article; Article		
J	Kaioglou, Vasiliki; Dania, Aspasia; Kambas, Antonios; Venetsanou, Fotini								Associations of Motor Competence, Cardiorespiratory Fitness, and Physical Activity: The Mediating Role of Cardiorespiratory Fitness								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			361	367		10.1080/02701367.2021.1991559			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: Supporting children's physical activity (PA) behavior is imperative in order to safeguard their health. In an attempt to gain a deeper understanding about children's PA behavior, the aim of this study was to investigate the associations among motor competence (MC), cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) and ambulatory PA during middle and late childhood. Method: A cross-sectional design was adopted and a total of 576 8-12-year-old children (M-age = 10.2 years, SD = 1.3) were examined. MC was assessed by the Canadian Agility and Movement Skill Assessment; daily PA (steps/day) was obtained by pedometers; CRF was measured by the Progressive Aerobic Cardiovascular Endurance Run. The associations among the key study variables were investigated by correlation and mediation analyses. Using a bootstrap method, two mediation models were tested: (a) MC predicting PA through CRF, (b) PA predicting MC through CRF. Results: MC, CRF, and PA present significant and positive associations both in boys and girls (p < .05). CRF fully mediates the relationship between MC and PA in both directions [Model 1: b = .138, 95% CI (.0952, .1869), Model 2: b = .108, 95% CI (.0752, .1445)]. The pathway leading from PA to MC (R-2 = .375, p < .0001) has stronger predictive utility than the reverse pathway (R-2 = .124, p < .0001). Conclusion: MC and CRF are important predictors of children's PA participation; therefore, systematic and targeted interventions focused on the enhancement of these two factors should be used as a mechanism to reinforce children's PA behavior.		[Kaioglou, Vasiliki; Dania, Aspasia; Venetsanou, Fotini] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Dafni, Greece; [Kambas, Antonios] Democritus Univ Thrace, Athens, Greece; [Kaioglou, Vasiliki] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Ethnikis Antistasis 41, Dafni 17237, Greece								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000776214900001	53	Article; Article		
J	Parker, Kate; Brown, Helen L.; Salmon, Jo								Are There Common Correlates of Adolescents' Sport Participation and Screen Time?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			374	382		10.1080/02701367.2021.1998305			APR 3 2023	2023	Objective: This study aimed to identify intrapersonal, interpersonal, and environmental correlates of leisure-time participation in sports and examine whether they are also associated with screen-time among adolescents. Methods: Adolescents from eight schools in Victoria, Australia were recruited for this study. Participants (n = 400) comprised of an even distribution of boys (51%) and girls (49%) aged 12-16 years. Their engagement in leisure-time activities (including sports and screen-time) and 13 potential correlates were self-reported. Multinomial logistic regression analyses examined correlates of sports and screen-time participation categories, accounting for clustering by school and adjusting for significant sociodemographic characteristics. Results: The majority (76%) participated in leisure-time sports and exceeded screen-time recommendations (<2 h/day) on both weekdays (69%) and weekend days (85%). Greater internal motivation for sports was positively associated with sports participation and inversely associated with screen-time on weekend days, respectively. Fewer barriers, positive family and coach support and more neighborhood sporting opportunities were significantly associated with greater sports participation. Neighborhood social norms were inversely associated with sports participation. Preference for sports was associated with less weekday and weekend screen-time. Friend support for sports was inversely associated with weekday screen-time. Access to sports facilities in the local neighborhood was associated with more weekday and weekend screen-time. Conclusion: Internal motivation for sports was associated with both sports participation and less screen-time. Preference for leisure-time sports and friend support for sports were associated with less screen-time. Future research should continue to explore common correlates of multiple leisure-time behaviors to inform the development of effective intervention strategies.		[Parker, Kate; Brown, Helen L.; Salmon, Jo] Deakin Univ, Burwood, Vic, Australia; [Parker, Kate] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Inst Phys Act & Nutr IPAN, 221 Burwood Highway, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000776208200001	1	Article; Article		
J	de Ruiter, Cornelis J.; Wilmes, Erik; Brouwers, Susan A. J.; Jagers, Erik C.; van Dieen, Jaap H.								Concurrent validity of an easy-to-use inertial measurement unit-system to evaluate sagittal plane segment kinematics during overground sprinting at different speeds								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2056076				2022	This study investigated concurrent validity of inertial measurement units (IMUs) and high-speed video for sagittal plane kinematics during overground sprinting. The practical relevance is demonstrated by reporting the changes in thigh kinematics in relation to toe-off and touch-down of the feet at near maximal to maximal (80-100%) speeds. Sixteen athletes ran multiple 60 m sprints with IMUs on their feet, shanks, thighs, pelvis and trunk. High-speed video data were captured of the start strides and of one complete stride at full speed. Coefficients of multiple correlation with video were >0.99 for angles and angular velocities of the thigh and shank but low for the pelvis and trunk (0.13-0.66). For the limb segment angles (minimum, maximum, at toe-off and at touch-down) absolute biases (limits of agreement) were <= 2.9 degrees(<= 7.7 degrees) and for angular velocities the values were <= 57 degrees.s(-1)(<= 93 degrees.s(-1)). Many of the expected speed-related changes in thigh kinematics were significant (linear mixed effect regression; p < 0.05). In conclusion, an easy-to-use IMU system has good concurrent validity with video, especially for the thigh. It registers the kinematics of all strides in multiple sprints and can detect relatively small changes thereof, including those at key moments of foot-touch-down and toe-off.		[de Ruiter, Cornelis J.; Wilmes, Erik; Brouwers, Susan A. J.; Jagers, Erik C.; van Dieen, Jaap H.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [de Ruiter, Cornelis J.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000776093100001	33	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Duggan, John D.; Moody, Jeremy; Byrne, Paul; McGahan, Jason H.; Kirszenstein, Lukasz								Considerations and Guidelines on Athletic Development for Youth Gaelic Athletic Association Players								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	2			76	96		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000638			APR 2022	2022	Youth athletic development is important for sports performance and most importantly for life-long participation in sport and physical activity. The physical development of children and adolescents must be considered when programming different bio-motor qualities of physical training. The Gaelic Athletic Association and participation in Gaelic sports is an integral part of children and adolescents' formative years in Ireland with clubs the focal point of both urban and rural communities. This article will offer practitioners an overview of how to progress athletic development, physical literacy, and motor skills for preparation from grassroots to elite intercounty representation. Traditional athletic development models will be discussed and additional considerations, the importance of coaching styles will also be discussed. Practical recommendations are suggested such as the athletic motor skills competencies (AMSC) model (Figure 4), a differentiated movement matrix based on the AMSC from a movement motor skill and strength-based perspective (Tables 3 and 4). Practical guidelines and considerations on how to integrate strength and resistance training throughout stages of athletic development are also provided (Figure 7). This article aims to provide practitioners with an iterative, pragmatic, and evidence-based approach in the athletic development of youth Gaelic sports players from grassroots to elite level participation.		[Duggan, John D.] Galway Mayo Inst Technol, Dept Nat Sci, Galway, Ireland; [Duggan, John D.; Moody, Jeremy; Byrne, Paul] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci Sport, Cardiff, Wales; [Duggan, John D.; Kirszenstein, Lukasz] Galway GAA, Galway, Ireland; [Byrne, Paul] Inst Technol Carlow, Dept Sci & Hlth, Carlow, Ireland; [McGahan, Jason H.] Kerry GAA, Performance & Res Dept, Currans, Co Kerry, Ireland; [Duggan, John D.] Galway Mayo Inst Technol, Dept Nat Sci, Galway, Ireland; [Duggan, John D.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci Sport, Cardiff, Wales; [Duggan, John D.] Galway GAA, Galway, Ireland								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000774204600007	175	Article; Article		
J	Hill, Cherice N.; Schmitt, Daniel; Reed, Wornie; Arent, Shawn M.; Sands, Laura P.; Queen, Robin M.								Racial differences in running and landing measures associated with injury risk vary by sex								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2056075				2022	It is unknown whether running and landing mechanics differ between racial groups despite injury disparities between African Americans (AA) and white Americans (WA). This study aimed to identify potential racial differences in running and landing mechanics and understand whether anthropometric, strength, and health status factors contribute to these differences. Venous blood samples, anthropometry, lower-extremity strength, and health status assessments were collected (n = 84, 18-30y). Three-dimensional motion capture and force plate data were recorded during 7 running and 7 drop vertical jump trials. Racial effects were determined, and regression models evaluated explanatory factors. AA females ran with longer stance times (p = 0.003) than WA females, while AA males ran with smaller loading rates (p = 0.046) and larger peak vertical ground reaction forces (p = 0.036) than WA males. Frontal plane knee range of motion during landing was greater in AA females (p = 0.033) than WA females; larger waist circumference and weaker knee extension strength accounted for this significance. Although outcome measures were associated with physiologic, anthropometric, and activity measures, their explanatory power for race was ambiguous, except for knee range of motion in females. Modifiable factors explaining racial effects during landing in females are potential intervention targets to reduce racial health disparities in running and landing injuries.		[Hill, Cherice N.; Queen, Robin M.] Virginia Tech, Dept Biomed Engn & Mech, Coll Engn, Blacksburg, VA 24061 USA; [Schmitt, Daniel] Duke Univ, Coll Arts & Sci, Dept Evolutionary Anthropol, Durham, NC USA; [Reed, Wornie] Virginia Tech, Dept Sociol, Coll Liberal Arts & Human Sci, Blacksburg, VA USA; [Arent, Shawn M.] Univ South Carolina, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Exercise Sci, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Sands, Laura P.] Virginia Tech, Ctr Gerontol, Coll Liberal Arts & Human Sci, Blacksburg, VA USA; [Hill, Cherice N.] Virginia Tech, Dept Biomed Engn & Mech, Coll Engn, Blacksburg, VA 24061 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000776063300001	70	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Depken, Craig A., II; Gandar, John M.; Shapiro, Dmitry A.								Set-level strategic and psychological momentum in best-of-three-set professional tennis matches								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	5			598	623	15270025221085715	10.1177/15270025221085715			JUN 2022	2022	We provide a theoretical and empirical analysis of strategic momentum and psychological momentum in best-of-three contests between players with unequal skills. As a theoretical benchmark, we develop a fully rational model of best-of-three contests and define psychological momentum as systematic deviation from the theoretical equilibrium. An empirical analysis of 66,262 professional tennis matches from 2002 to 2020 shows that our theoretical model closely matches first set outcomes, which is when set-level psychological momentum is absent. Overall, the empirical results show that both strategic momentum and psychological momentum contribute to the outcomes of best-of-three tennis contests.		[Depken, Craig A., II] UNC Charlotte, Dept Econ, Charlotte, NC USA; [Gandar, John M.] UNC Charlotte, Dept Finance, Charlotte, NC USA; [Shapiro, Dmitry A.] Seoul Natl Univ, Coll Social Sci, Dept Econ, Seoul, South Korea; [Shapiro, Dmitry A.] Seoul Natl Univ, Coll Social Sci, Dept Econ, Seoul, South Korea								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000777673900001	39	Article; Article		
J	Morgans, Ryland; Orme, Patrick; Bezuglov, Eduard; Di Michele, Rocco								Technical and physical performance across five consecutive seasons in elite European Soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			839	847	17479541221089247	10.1177/17479541221089247			JUN 2023	2023	The technical and physical demands of elite soccer match-play may vary considerably across a season and from season-to-season in relation to a myriad of factors. The aim of this study was to investigate the technical and physical performance trends over five consecutive seasons (2016-2021) for twenty-two soccer players from a team participating in an elite European league, the Russian Premier League (RPL). Match data were recorded and analysed via an Optical Tracking System, and a selection of technical and physical performance variables were examined. From matches analysed, we observed small within-season changes (ES 0.17 to 0.37) for technical performance variables, and small to moderate changes (ES 0.31 to 0.86) for physical performance variables. Dribbles, percentage of successful dribbles, total distance covered, high-intensity and sprint distances, and maximal acceleration showed an average increase from the 2016-2017 to the 2018-2019 season, followed by a decrease in the subsequent seasons. Conversely, tackles, high-intensity accelerations and peak acceleration showed a decreasing trend from the 2016-2017 to the 2020-2021 season. Moderate to large correlations (r = -0.58 to 0.46) were apparent between changes in technical and physical variables. In summary, we observed between-season changes in match technical and physical variables in a RPL team, while there were no differences between the first and second phases of the season. The present findings may provide coaches with knowledge about long-term variations in technical and physical match performance, that can be practically useful to assess and interpret change in individual and team performance.		[Morgans, Ryland; Bezuglov, Eduard] PFC CSKA, Moscow, Russia; [Morgans, Ryland; Bezuglov, Eduard] Minist Russia Federat, Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, Dept Sports Med & Med Rehabil, Moscow 119991, Russia; [Orme, Patrick] Bristol City FC, Sport Sci & Med Dept, Bristol, Avon, England; [Di Michele, Rocco] Univ Bologna, Dept Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, Bologna, Italy; [Morgans, Ryland] Minist Russia Federat, Sechenov First Moscow State Med Univ, Dept Sports Med & Med Rehabil, Moscow 119991, Russia								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000777714000001	39	Article; Article		
J	Ling, Fiona Chun Man; Simmons, Jonathan; Horton, Mike								Development and Validation of Physical Activity-Specific Rumination Scale for Children Through UK Children's Voice								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			283	293		10.1080/02701367.2021.1971150			JAN 2 2023	2023	Many physical activity (PA) interventions implemented to tackle the child obesity epidemic have shown limited effectiveness, possibly due to a lack of consideration of potential stress that accompanies behavior adaptation and the automatic perseverative cognition that exacerbates the stress (namely rumination). Purpose: The main aim of this paper is to develop and validate the PA-specific Rumination Scale for Children (PARSC) that assesses children's tendencies to engage in repeated negative thoughts about PA (Study 2). Items in the scale were derived from qualitative information about factors that inherently demotivates PA participation (intrinsic barriers) through the lived experience of UK children (Study 1). Methods: For Study 1, pedometry PA data were collected from 143 children (aged 6-10 years). Twenty-one focus groups were formed based on participants' year group, sex and PA level. For PARSC validation (Study 2), 382 children completed the questionnaire twice. Self-report PA, device-based PA, and avoidant coping were also assessed. Results: Study 1-Four overarching themes identified as intrinsic barriers were lack of competence, fear of negative experiences, external constraints and lacking a sense of purpose. Altogether, 10 higher order and lower order themes were used to construct PARSC items. Study 2-From Rasch analysis, PARSC possessed sound internal validity, internal consistency, and test-retest reliability. Self-report PA and avoidant coping were predictive of PA-specific rumination, but not device-based PA. Conclusion: PARSC is a useful tool to identify children ruminative about PA for whom interventions can be designed, with the intrinsic barriers considered, to promote PA behavior adaptation.		[Ling, Fiona Chun Man; Simmons, Jonathan] Northumbria Univ, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Horton, Mike] Univ Leeds, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Ling, Fiona Chun Man] Northumbria Univ, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, Tyne & Wear, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000781109800001	63	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, Adam Paul								Rehabilitation of an isolated Deltoid Ligament surgical reconstruction-A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				125	130		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.03.008			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: Isolated deltoid ligament injuries are an uncommon injury within football with a lack of literature surrounding the rehabilitation processes for this injury. This case report looks to document the processes and considerations required for a successful rehabilitation of this specific injury to promote discussion surrounding optimal rehabilitation programming and subsequently better inform clinicians about best practice. Methods: A twenty-year-old professional footballer sustained an isolated Deltoid ligament injury to their right ankle following an eversion mechanism of injury when landing after performing a heading action. Eleven days post injury the player underwent reconstruction of the Deltoid ligament before then undergoing a sixteen-week rehabilitation program up to the point of return to training. Results: This complete deltoid ligament rupture was managed surgically with a reconstruction. Following sixteen weeks of rehabilitation the player was cleared for a return to training and has now been in full training and match play involvement for nine months without any reaction or reinjury. Conclusion: This case report summarises the injury management, rehabilitation and objective markers used in order to provide some early understanding of management strategies for this uncommon injury diagnosis. (C) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Johnson, Adam Paul] Brighton & Hove Albion Football Club, Amer Express Elite Football Ctr, Brighton BN15 9FP, E Sussex, England; [Johnson, Adam Paul] Stoke City Football Club, Rose Tree Ave, Stoke On Trent ST4 6NL, Staffs, England; [Johnson, Adam Paul] Brighton & Hove Albion Football Club, Amer Express Elite Football Ctr, Brighton BN15 9FP, E Sussex, England								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000016	16	Article; Article		
J	Field, Adam; Corr, Liam David; Sarmento, Hugo; Naughton, Robert; Clifford, Tom; Haines, Matthew; Page, Richard Michael; Harper, Liam David								The Impact of 120 Minutes of Soccer-Specific Exercise on Recovery								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			237	245		10.1080/02701367.2021.1964697			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: The extra-time (ET) period of soccer is competed during fixture congested schedules with often limited recovery time between matches. The aim of this study was to assess muscle damage recovery following 90- and 120-min (i.e., incorporation of ET) of simulated soccer match-play. Methods: Twelve semiprofessional soccer players completed 90 and 120-min treadmill-based soccer-specific exercise in a counterbalanced order. Creatine kinase (CK), creatinine, urea, aspartate aminotransferase, perceived muscle soreness, pain pressure threshold, reactive strength index, countermovement jump height, and isokinetic strength assessments of eccentric knee flexors at 60, 180 and 270 deg.s(-1) were taken at baseline and immediately-, 24, 48 and 72-hr post-exercise to assess recovery. Results: No significant between-trial interactions except for CK were found. Pairwise comparisons detected a 53% increase in CK at 24-hr (455 +/- 29 mu.L-1) following 120-min of simulated match-play vs. the corresponding post 90-min time-point (299 +/- 29 mu.L-1; p <.01). The 120-min trial caused a 58% higher CK response at 72-hr (244 +/- 25 mu.L-1) vs. post 90-min comparisons (154 +/- 29 mu.L-1; p =.02). No interaction effects were detected for any other recovery variables. Creatine kinase and perceived muscle soreness remained elevated up to 72-hr in both trials (p < .01). Conclusions: These data indicate that 120 min of simulated soccer match-play delays the time-course of CK recovery up to 72-hr post-match. However, 120 min of simulated soccer has no additional impact on functional recovery and perceived muscle soreness vs. 90 min. Recovery should be investigated following 90- and 120min of actual match-play.		[Field, Adam; Corr, Liam David; Naughton, Robert; Haines, Matthew; Harper, Liam David] Univ Huddersfield, Huddersfield, W Yorkshire, England; [Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; [Clifford, Tom] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Page, Richard Michael] Edge Hill Univ, Ormskirk, England; [Field, Adam] Univ Huddersfield, Sch Human & Hlth Sci, Huddersfield HD1 3DH, W Yorkshire, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000773795700001	57	Article; Article		
J	Dunican, Ian C.; Perry, Emma L.; Gemma, Maisey; Nesci, Elena; Roberts, Spencer								Understanding the sleep of ultra-marathon swimmers: Guidance for coaches and swimmers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			974	983	17479541221089385	10.1177/17479541221089385			OCT 2022	2022	Open water swimming ultra-marathon events >= 10 km have become increasingly popular amongst master athletes. However, very little is known about the timing of training sessions and the impact on sleep. This study aimed to examine sleep behaviours, sleep problems and disorders and the relationship with training timings. This study used a longitudinal observational design for 42 nights with 24 masters' swimmers (n = 13 females), aged 39 +/- 11 years, body mass index of 26 +/- 3 kg/m(2) during a training squad for an ocean ultra-swim (19.7 km) in Western Australia. Objective measures of sleep were obtained from a wrist-activity monitor, the Readiband (TM) (Fatigue Science Inc., Canada). Swimmers completed a survey instrument related to sleep problems, disorders, chronotype, anthropometric and demographic information. Generalised linear mixed models were fitted to examine relationships between predictor variables and sleep responses. Body mass index was associated with a decline in Total Sleep Time (TST), each one-unit increase in BMI was associated with 5 min less TST (p = 0.04). Swimmers with a "high risk" of sleep apnea had 21 min more wake time (p = 0.04) and 5% lower Sleep Efficiency (p = 0.04). Sleep Offset on the morning of a morning training session was earlier by 48 min (p < 0.001) resulting in less TST by 39 min (p < 0.001). This study provides evidence that coaches need to consider sleep behaviours and problems before designing training schedules. Swimmers need to plan and allocate an adequate sleep opportunity and those who have a suspected sleep disorder or problem should seek the support of a sleep physician.		[Dunican, Ian C.] Univ Western Australia, Ctr Sleep Sci, Sch Human Sci, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia; [Perry, Emma L.] Univ Western Australia, Dent Sch, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Dunican, Ian C.; Gemma, Maisey] Melius Consulting & Sleep4Performance, Perth, WA, Australia; [Nesci, Elena] eSWIM, Subiaco, WA, Australia; [Roberts, Spencer] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Dunican, Ian C.] Univ Western Australia, Ctr Sleep Sci, Sch Human Sci, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000776704200001	41	Article; Article		
J	Zach, Sima; Avugos, Simcha; Bakalo-Kuffler, Liat; Bar-Eli, Michael								Winning the second half: The perceived and actual impact of the coach's half-time speech on basketball players' performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			953	963	17479541221089743	10.1177/17479541221089743			OCT 2022	2022	This study was designed to explore coaches' half-time speeches and whether players perceive these speeches as having an impact on their performance later in the game. A mixed-methods convergent design was used. Participants were nine male basketball players aged 19-34 (M = 27, SD = 4.76) from a team playing in the Israeli Basketball Premier League, as well as their head coach (aged 41) and two assistant coaches (aged 51 and 34). Data were collected on the coach's speeches at half-time in games during the regular season. In addition, face-to-face semi-structured interviews with the players and the two assistant coaches were conducted at midseason. The average speech duration was approximately 3 min, and messages were delivered at an average pace of one theme every 13 s. The most frequent theme was psychological, with more negative themes delivered compared to positive ones. Psychological themes appeared 50% more than informational. We discuss the differences in the features of the talks between games in which the team was trailing at half-time, and games in which they reached half-time with a leading score. A surprising gap exists between the participants' perception regarding the contribution of the half-time speech to players' performance, and the actual score at the end of the game.		[Zach, Sima] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Sch Grad Studies, Acad Coll Wingate, IL-4290200 Netanya, Israel; [Avugos, Simcha; Bar-Eli, Michael] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Sch Human Movement & Sport Sci, Acad Coll Wingate, Netanya, Israel; [Bakalo-Kuffler, Liat] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Acad Coll Wingate, Netanya, Israel; [Bar-Eli, Michael] Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Dept Business Adm, Guilford Glazer Fac Business & Management, Beer Sheva, Israel; [Zach, Sima] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Sch Grad Studies, Acad Coll Wingate, IL-4290200 Netanya, Israel								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000776633800001	54	Article; Article		
J	Mitchell, Scott L.; Tierney, Gregory J.								An assessment of the World Rugby law application guidelines for the breakdown on sanctioning and player adherence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			883	888	17479541221088577	10.1177/17479541221088577			JUN 2023	2023	World Rugby's law application guideline for the breakdown was developed to make the breakdown safer, fairer, and simpler to understand. The aim of this study was to use video analysis to assess the impact of these guidelines by comparing player adherence from the 2019 Rugby World Cup (pre-guidelines) to the 2020 Autumn Nations Cup (post-guidelines) as well as the rate of sanctioning by match officials. Contested breakdowns (n = 1444) were individually analysed by coding any infringement that occurred as well as the sanctioning outcome. The chi-square and probability (p) values were calculated to compare proportions before (pre) and after (post) the law application guidelines. No change in the rate of infringements was observed (p = 0.207), though the rate of infringements penalised increased (p = 0.001). Reductions in the rate of infringements of two of the five offences targeted by the guidelines were observed; "offside" (p = 0.008) and "remains on feet" (p <0.001). All dangerous play infringements reduced; "charged in" (p <0.001), "contact above shoulder" (p <0.001), "intentional collapse" (p = 0.023). There are early indications that the guidelines have had a marginal influence on overall player adherence to the breakdown rules but a considerable positive influence on adhering to the rules surrounding dangerous play.		[Mitchell, Scott L.] Univ Leeds, Sch Biomed Sci, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Tierney, Gregory J.] Ulster Univ, Sch Sport, Newtownabbey BT37 0QB, Antrim, North Ireland; [Tierney, Gregory J.] Ulster Univ, Sch Sport, Newtownabbey BT37 0QB, Antrim, North Ireland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000776633900001	29	Article; Article		
J	Pinheiro Brisola, Gabriel Motta; Claus, Gabriel Machado; Zagatto, Alessandro Moura								Monitoring Training Load, Immune-Endocrine, Autonomic Nervous System Responses, and Swimming Performance in Women's Water Polo								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			299	309		10.1080/02701367.2021.1976377			APR 3 2023	2023	Purpose: The purposes of the study were to: i) verify the variations in training load and the subsequent effects on swimming performance parameters, biochemical parameters, and autonomic nervous activity during a water polo season; ii) investigate the sensitivity of physiological markers in tracking training load and performance variations, and iii) verify the overreaching prevalence. Method: The training load of 20 female water polo players was monitored (using the session rating of perceived exertion method [sRPE], training monotony, and strain), and the lactate minimum speed (LMS), repeated sprint ability (RSA), plasma hormone and glutamine concentration, salivary immunoglobulin A (SIgA), and heart rate variability (lnRMSSD) were evaluated during the season. Result: The training load parameters were higher in the competitive cycle (p <= 0.002). The LMS improved only in the general cycle from baseline (p = .015), while the RSA best time improved in the general (p = .002) and specific cycles (p = .012) from baseline and deteriorated in the competitive from general cycle (p = .008). The SIgA secretion rate presented a reduction only in the specific cycle from baseline (p = .032), while the lnRMSSD increased in the general (p = .038) and competitive (p < .001) cycles from baseline. Five athletes were diagnosed as overreaching state. Conclusion: Therefore, the physiological markers (i.e., plasma hormone and glutamine concentration, SIgA, and lnRMSSD) showed little sensitivity to detect changes in training load and swimming performance. The higher training loads applied in the competitive cycle seem to limit swimming performance gains.		[Pinheiro Brisola, Gabriel Motta; Claus, Gabriel Machado; Zagatto, Alessandro Moura] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Bauru, SP, Brazil; [Zagatto, Alessandro Moura] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Lab Physiol & Sport Performance LAFIDE, Sch Sci, Av Eng Luiz Edmundo Carrijo Coube 14-01, BR-17033360 Bauru, SP, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000773800600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Lang, Diandong; Zhou, Aiguo								Determinants of shooting performance in elite air rifle shooters								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2055627				2022	The purpose of this study was to identify the determinants of shooting performance in elite 10 m air rifle shooters. Twelve international-level 10 m air rifle shooters belonging to China's national team completed 60 shots using their normal shooting procedures. A SCATT MX-02 optoelectronic shooting test system was used to collect shooting score and shooting technical variables, while a footscan1.0 force platform was used to collect postural balance parameters. The principal component analysis identified five principal factors from 14 postural balance and shooting technical variables in elite 10 m air rifle shooters: holding and aiming, stability of triggering, time, A-P balance and M-L balance. Principal component regression analysis indicated that these five components explained the 83.1% variance of shooting performance. From these, the holding and aiming ability was the most important component, which could explain the 36.3% variance of shooting performance. The stability of triggering was the second important component, which could explain the 24.5% variance of shooting performance. The results of this study can be used to assess the strengths and weaknesses of performance-determining factors and to obtain more comprehensive information about the shooting action process during training.		[Lang, Diandong; Zhou, Aiguo] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Strength & Conditioning, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Lang, Diandong] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Strength & Conditioning, Beijing, Peoples R China								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000773765400001	17	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Turner, Maclean; Hammer, Nathan; Lamping, Emma; Wu, Will F. W.; Becker, James								Kinetics, Kinematics, and Fixed Postures: An Exploration of How Attentional Focus Manipulation Enhances Movement								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			246	253		10.1080/02701367.2021.1965522			JAN 2 2023	2023	There is debate in the literature regarding how manipulating the focus of attention (FOA) influences ground reaction forces during the standing long jump (SLJ) and gaps in understanding as to which phases of the SLJ are affected (takeoff, flight, and landing) and whether FOA manipulation benefits remain when tasks are performed in fixed body postures. Purpose: This study compared SLJ performance under external (EXT) and internal (INT) FOA conditions with free and fixed postures. Methods: Twenty participants performed SLJs under EXT and INT FOA conditions while being allowed to swing arms freely and having to keep hands on their hips. Kinematics and kinetics were recorded using 3D-motion capture and force plates. Jump distances, projection angles, and ground reaction forces and impulses were compared across conditions using a 2 x 3 repeated measures ANOVA. Results: Jump distances were significantly further with EXT FOA (p < .001). These differences were due to increases in the takeoff distance (p < .001) and landing distances (p < .001), with flight distances not being different between the conditions (p = .061). Peak horizontal ground reaction forces (p < .001) and impulses (p < .001) were both greater, while projection angles were lower (p = .002) in the EXT FOA condition. Conclusions: Improvements in SLJ distance with an EXT FOA are due to the takeoff and landing phases; manipulating FOA does change forces during the SLJ; and that benefits of an EXT FOA are realized even when movements are performed with constrained body postures.		[Turner, Maclean; Hammer, Nathan; Lamping, Emma] Montana State Univ, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA; [Wu, Will F. W.; Becker, James] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Becker, James] Montana State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Dev, 219 Herrick Hall, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000778218500001	33	Article; Article		
J	Mesquita, Isabel; Farias, Claudio; Silva, Luciana De Martin; Afonso, Jose; Coutinho, Patricia								How Can Learner-Oriented Scaffolding Strategies Be Implemented in Coach Education? A Case Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			216	225		10.1080/02701367.2021.1961994			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Although emerging research has explored the development of coach education curricula, coach learning and how a deep learning approach can be made accessible to aspiring coaches, the study of coach educators' scaffolding of micro-pedagogies in action remains a missing link in the field. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to explore scaffolding strategies adopted by an experienced coach educator to encourage aspiring coaches to adopt an active approach to learning. Method: A case-study was conducted for a full semester of twelve practical lessons in the unit "Sports Methodology I-Volleyball" of a renowned sport sciences coach education program. Multiple data collection sources included participant observation, video and audio recordings, individual interviews with the coach educator and focus group interviews with the aspiring coaches. A thematic analysis was performed, and trustworthiness criteria included data triangulation, crosschecking, and collaborative interpretational analysis. Results: The strategies adopted by the coach educator progressively unfolded throughout three main stages: (i) laying the foundations of a learner-oriented approach; (ii) enhancing personally meaningful learning experiences; and (iii) mediating peer-coaching activities. An intricate interplay was unraveled between the nature and reduction of the support given and the increased responsibility transferred to the aspiring coaches for their active participation in learning experiences. Conclusions: The learner-oriented scaffolding processes employed by the coach educator sought to promote enhanced understanding of game-play problem-solving and the aspiring coaches' development of a deeper sense of what is required to become a coach through engagement in coaching technical activities and peer-coaching interventions.		[Mesquita, Isabel; Farias, Claudio; Afonso, Jose; Coutinho, Patricia] Univ Porto, Porto, Portugal; [Silva, Luciana De Martin] Hartpury Univ, Gloucester, England; [Afonso, Jose] Univ Porto, Ctr Res Educ Intervent & Innovat Sport, Rua Dr Placido Costa 91, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000772879500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Gomes da Silva, Alisson; Rodrigues Albuquerque, Maicon; Jose Brito, Ciro; Martins Stroppa, Guilherme; Ferreira Oliveira, Samuel Angelo; Sillero-Quintana, Manuel; Bouzas Marins, Joao Carlos								Effect of Whole-, Upper-, and Lower-Body High-Intensity Rowing Exercise on Skin Temperature Measured by Thermography								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			226	236		10.1080/02701367.2021.1964696			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Despite the growing works analyzing exercise-induced thermoregulatory adjustments through thermography, the skin temperature (Tsk) response of the same muscle groups underwent to different exercise demands has not been investigated. This study analyzed the behavior of Tsk of the same muscle groups when exercised with different demands in rowing. Methods: Eighteen men underwent three performance tests on a rowing ergometer: whole-body 2,000 m test (RTWB), upper-body (RTUB), and lower-body (RTLB) tests. In each condition, thermograms were recorded before (pre), immediately after test (post), and at 10 (REC10), 20 (REC20), and 30 (REC30) minutes post-exercise recovery. Tsk was measured at the pectoral (control body region), upper back, quadriceps, brachial biceps, and forearm. Results: Pectoral-Tsk reduced comparably in response to all testing conditions (p < .05). Upper back-Tsk decreased post (p < .001) and returned to baseline in the RTUB (REC10, p = 1.0) and RTWB (REC30, p = .128), while remained reduced in the RTLB (p < .001). Quadriceps-Tsk reduced post (p < .05) and returned to baseline in the RTWB and RTLB at REC10 (p = 1.0), remaining reduced in the RTUB during recovery (p < .05). Regarding the upper limbs, Tsk increased more markedly in the RTUB versus RTWB during the recovery period (p < .05); in the RTLB, biceps-Tsk remained below baseline over time (p < .05), whereas the forearm-Tsk was restored at REC10 (p = 1.0). Conclusion: Manipulating the muscle groups involved in rowing alters the Tsk response within equal ROI. Exercise-induced Tsk changes can reflect local hemodynamic and thermoregulatory adjustments.		[Gomes da Silva, Alisson; Ferreira Oliveira, Samuel Angelo; Bouzas Marins, Joao Carlos] Univ Fed Vicosa, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Gomes da Silva, Alisson] Escola Preparatoria Cadetes Ar, Barbacena, Brazil; [Rodrigues Albuquerque, Maicon] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Jose Brito, Ciro] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Martins Stroppa, Guilherme] Univ Porto, Porto, Portugal; [Sillero-Quintana, Manuel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Gomes da Silva, Alisson] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Phys Educ, BR-36570000 Vicosa, MG, Brazil								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000772791300001	45	Article; Article		
J	Coghetto, Guilherme; Zanrosso, Eduardo Manosso; Rabello, Rodrigo; da Ros, Joao Luiz; Rodrigues, Rodrigo								Association Between Success and Unsuccess Rates on Technical Skills and Physical Qualities in Rugby Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			254	262		10.1080/02701367.2021.1967845			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Although physical and technical performance are both fundamental in rugby union teams, the association between these variables in sub-elite players is limited. This study investigated the association between the rate of success and unsuccess in technical skills throughout a season with physical quality variables in sub-elite rugby players. Methods: Twenty-five sub-elite rugby union players (age: 26.4 +/- 3.8 years; body mass: 99.68 +/- 14.34 kg; height: 1.81 +/- 0.07 m) completed the following assessments: (i) broad jump; (ii) 10- and 30-meters sprint speed; (iii) 5-10-5 test; (iv) 1 RM of bench press, chin-up and squat and (v) Yo-Yo fitness test. The rate of success and unsuccess in tackles, attacking rucks and carries were measured during a season. Results: We found that: (i) higher success rates in carries were associated with faster speeds and greater broad jump distance; (ii) higher unsuccess rates in tackles were associated with lower 1 RM chin-up. When controlling for playing position, (iii) higher success rates in carries were associated with 30-meters speed and broad jump distance; (iv) higher success rates in tackles were associated with higher 1 RM chin-up; and (v) higher unsuccess rates in tackles were associated with lower 1 RM chin-up. Conclusions: Success and unsuccess rates in attacking rucks and success in carries were not associated with physical qualities. Therefore, training programs that improve speed, lower limb power and upper limb maximal strength should receive greater attention when seeking to achieve greater success in trying to break the opponent's defensive line and stop the ball carrier.		[Coghetto, Guilherme; Zanrosso, Eduardo Manosso; Rodrigues, Rodrigo] Serra Gaucha Univ Ctr, Caxias Do Sul, RS, Brazil; [Rabello, Rodrigo] Univ Milan, Milan, Italy; [da Ros, Joao Luiz] Brazilian Rugby Confederat, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Rodrigues, Rodrigo] Serra Gaucha Univ Ctr, Exercise Physiol & Phys Assessment Lab, R Marechal Floriano 1229, Caxias Do Sul, RS, Brazil								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000772794700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Fabre, Nicolas; Lhuisset, Lena; Bois, Julien								Accelerometer-Based Physical Activity Assessment During Intermittent Conditions: Effect of Epoch Length on Energy Expenditure Estimate								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			202	209		10.1080/02701367.2021.1956676			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study analyzed the effect of epoch length on energy expenditure (EE) estimates and on the moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) measure obtained from EE estimates during accelerometer-based assessment. Methods: Ten active students exercised on a treadmill for four 5-min bouts, using two effort intensities (running and walking) and two physical activity (PA) patterns (continuous or intermittent) wearing an accelerometer. The criterion measure of EE was achieved using indirect calorimetry. Data obtained from the accelerometer were reintegrated into 1-sec, 10-sec, 30-sec and 60-sec epochs. Results: During the running intermittent condition, EE and MVPA estimates from the accelerometer were no different from the criterion measure with 30- and 60-sec epoch lengths but they were different with shorter epoch lengths. During the walking intermittent condition, no difference was observed between EE estimates and the criterion measure, regardless of the epoch length. During the running continuous condition, EE estimated from the accelerometer was significantly lower than the EE obtained with the criterion measure, regardless of the epoch length. During the walking continuous condition, no difference was observed. Conclusion: During the intermittent running condition, longer epoch lengths gave the best EE and MVPA estimates. This conclusion is contrary to the current general view that shorter epochs are the most accurate for PA assessment. However, PA estimates are closer to an external load estimates whereas EE estimates are closer to the internal load estimate. Depending on the objective of their study, researchers should be aware of these findings.		[Fabre, Nicolas; Lhuisset, Lena; Bois, Julien] Univ Pau & Pays Adour, MEPS, e2s UPPA, 11 Rue Morane Saulnier, F-65000 Tarbes, France; [Fabre, Nicolas] Univ Pau & Pays Adour, MEPS, e2s UPPA, 11 Rue Morane Saulnier, F-65000 Tarbes, France								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000771877700001	25	Article; Article		
J	V. Slater, Lindsay; Hart, Joseph M.								Quantifying the relationship between quadriceps strength and aerobic fitness following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				106	110		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.03.005			MAY 2022	2022	Objective: To quantify the relationship between quadriceps strength and aerobic fitness following ACLR. Methods: 42 individuals with ACLR (29F/13M, 20.2 +/- 3.3years, 71.8 +/- 17.4 kg, 171.1 +/- 9.4 cm, 21.9 +/- 21.5months post-surgery) and 38 healthy controls (24F/14M, 20.1 +/- 1.4years, 69.8 +/- 10.2 kg, 172.9 +/- 8.7 cm) completed quadriceps strength testing using an instrumented dynamometer then completed an incremental treadmill test to determine aerobic fitness (VO2max). Bivariate Pearson's correlations were calculated between strength and VO2max. Significant correlations were retained for a regression analysis. Results: Healthy controls demonstrated significantly greater VO2max compared to the ACLR group (d 1/4 0.56). Unilateral strength variables were significantly correlated with VO2max (P < 0.006) for both groups. Normalized peak isokinetic knee extensor torque was retained in the model, which explained 20.5% of the variance in healthy VO2max and 37.2% of the variance in ACLR VO2max. Conclusions: Aerobic fitness was reduced in the ACLR group in comparison to the healthy controls, despite unrestricted return to activity and similar activity levels between groups. Unilateral quadriceps strength was significantly correlated with aerobic fitness, which may be an indicator that greater unilateral strength may be a proxy for assessing aerobic fitness. Furthermore, sports medicine professionals may consider incorporating techniques and exercises during rehabilitation to improve cardiovascular fitness following ACLR.		[V. Slater, Lindsay] Univ Illinois, Dept Phys Therapy, Chicago, IL 60607 USA; [Hart, Joseph M.] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA USA; [V. Slater, Lindsay] W Taylor St, Chicago, IL 60607 USA								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000013	44	Article; Article		
J	Hernandez-Davo, Jose Luis; Sabido, Rafael								The Effect of Three Different Resistance Training Programming Approaches on Strength Gains and Jumping Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			180	185		10.1080/02701367.2021.1950903			JAN 2 2023	2023	Background: A main goal of programming is to structure the optimal variations in training factors to optimize athletes' adaptations. Nevertheless, it remains unknown the optimal programming model leading to greater neuromuscular adaptations. Purpose: The aim of the present study was to assess the influence of three different magnitudes of variability within resistance training programs on performance adaptations. Methods: Forty participants were assigned to three different groups differing in the frequency of change in training contents: a weekly model (WM; n = 12), a daily model (DM; n= 14), and a session model (SM; n = 14). The training intervention lasted for six weeks, performing two sessions per week of back-squat exercise. Total training load (volume and intensity) of the six-week intervention was equated for all groups. Maximum dynamic strength (1RM) in the back-squat, countermovement (CMJ) and squat jump (SJ) were measured pre- and post-training intervention. Results: All groups showed significant increases (p< .05) in 1RM, with the SM showing greater increases than the WM (20.5 vs 13.6%; p= .022). Although not reaching statistical significance, the magnitude of the increases in CMJ tended to be greater for DM and SM group (9.5% and 8.1%, respectively,) than in the WM (4.4%). All groups showed similar increases in the SJ (7.7-9.9%). Conclusions: The results of the present study suggest that the use of more frequent stimuli variations within resistance training programming is a key factor to achieve concomitant increases in strength and jumping performance.		[Hernandez-Davo, Jose Luis] Univ Isabel I, Burgos, Spain; [Sabido, Rafael] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Elche, Spain; [Sabido, Rafael] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Ave Univ S-N, Elche 03202, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000770462800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Mouelhi-Guizani, Salma; Guinoubi, Sarah; Chtara, Mokhtar; Crespo, Miguel								Relationships between flow state and motivation in junior elite tennis players: Differences by gender								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			490	499	17479541221082990	10.1177/17479541221082990			APR 2023	2023	This study examined the relationships between differing types of motivation and the flow state and possible gender differences. A sample of 94 junior elite tennis players (44 boys and 50 girls), ages 11 to 14 years (12.05 +/- 1.2) completed the French Flow State Scale-2 (F FSS-2) and the Sport Motivation Scale (SMS) questionnaires. Results reported a moderate link between intrinsic motivation and flow state (r = 0.44, p < 0.05). Amotivation was negatively related to all dimensions of flow state except for transformation of time (r = -.02, p <0.05). An independent-sample t-test analysis indicated that girls had stronger intrinsic motivation than boys to know (t = 1.95; p <.05; d = .59), and to accomplish (t = 2.14; p <.04; d = .64) and also had better extrinsic motivation identified-regulation (t = 3.71; p <.01; d = 1.11). No meaningful differences were found between girls and boys in their general flow state (t = .18; p <.86; d = .04). In conclusion, our findings suggest that intrinsic motivation can contribute positively to improving the flow state in young tennis players.		[Mouelhi-Guizani, Salma; Guinoubi, Sarah; Chtara, Mokhtar] Univ La Manouba, ISSEP, Tunis 2010, Tunisia; [Mouelhi-Guizani, Salma] Tunisian Tennis Federat, Cite Natl Sport El Menzah,BP 350, Tunis 1004, Tunisia; [Chtara, Mokhtar] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports, Tunisian Res Lab LR 09 SEP 01 Sport Performance O, Tunis, Tunisia; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Bank Lane, London SW15 5XZ, England; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Bank Lane, London SW15 5XZ, England								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000773479500001	62	Article; Article		
J	Masiero, Ilaria								Sports-based Entertainment and Crime Evidence from Football Games in Brazil								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	8			1076	1095	15270025221085714	10.1177/15270025221085714			DEC 2022	2022	I investigate the relationship between sports-based entertainment and crime using nine years of hourly data on robberies and thefts by police district in Sao Paulo linked to information on 430 football matches. Results report a citywide voluntary incapacitation impact and a local spatial concentration effect. Robberies significantly drop during matches, especially high-audience ones. Around the stadiums, this effect is outweighed by that of concentration. While I find no evidence of spatial displacement, temporal displacement is at play, with offenses being moved up to pre-game time. I show that the game-crime link is likely deployed through potential criminals rather than victims.		[Masiero, Ilaria] Univ Geneva, Res Grp Econ Languages & Educ, Blvd Pont dArve 40, CH-1204 Geneva, Switzerland; [Masiero, Ilaria] Univ Geneva, Res Grp Econ Languages & Educ, Blvd Pont dArve 40, CH-1204 Geneva, Switzerland								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000773465000001	16	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio; Daniel Martinez-Martinez, Francisco; Pelegrin, Antonia								Gender differences in parental educational styles in athletes: Competition level and sport success								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			728	736	17479541221087205	10.1177/17479541221087205			JUN 2023	2023	The goal of this research was to know whether there are differences in parental educational styles depending on gender in athletes and parents, the level of sports success (local successes, national successes and international successes) and the competition level (local competition, national competition and international competition). The sample was made up of 357 Spanish athletes. An ad hoc sociodemographic questionnaire, the Multifactor Self-Assessment Test of Child Adjustment (TAMAI) and the Oviedo Scale of Infrequency of Response (INF-OV), were used to measure the different variables. Results showed that women athletes perceived more protective fathers and men perceived more authoritarian mothers. MANOVA analyses revealed that no gender differences were found depending on the competition level and the level of success. In conclusion, fathers should be aware that they unconsciously can be more protective with girls, otherwise, mothers can be more authoritarian with boys. Thus, these results should be considered by practitioners to create programs to intervene with parents depending on athlete's gender differences.		[Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Univ Int La Rioja UNIR, TECNODEF Res Grp, Fac Educ, La Rioja, Spain; [Daniel Martinez-Martinez, Francisco] Consejeria Educ Reg Murcia, Murcia, Spain; [Pelegrin, Antonia] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Dept Hlth Psychol, Elche, Spain; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Calle Almansa 101, Madrid 28040, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000773479100001	51	Article; Article		
J	Solomito, Matthew J.; Garibay, Erin J.; Cohen, Andrew; Nissen, Carl W.								Lead knee flexion angle is associated with both ball velocity and upper extremity joint moments in collegiate baseball pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2046143				2022	An important aspect of the pitching motion is the lead leg knee angle, from initial lead foot contact to ball release, which can influence pitching performance and injury potential. Understanding the implication of this angle is essential to appropriately coach baseball pitchers. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine the lead leg knee flexion influence on both ball velocity and the elbow varus moment. Kinematic and kinetic data were collected using standard optoelectronic motion capture methods from 121 collegiate pitchers and analysed using a random intercept, mixed effects regression model to evaluate the association between the knee angle on peak ball velocity and peak elbow varus moment, independently. Statistically significant associations between the knee flexion angle and ball velocity as well as with the elbow varus moment were noted. The data indicated that a 10 degrees increase in knee flexion at ball was associated with a 2.1 Nm reduction in the peak elbow varus moment (p = 0.021, r(2) = 0.12) and a 0.2 m/s reduction in peak ball velocity (p = 0.010, r(2) = 0.11). This study provides scientific evidence that the lead knee flexion angle influences both upper extremity stresses and ball velocity.		[Solomito, Matthew J.; Nissen, Carl W.] Hartford Hosp, Res Dept, Bone & Joint Inst, Hartford, CT 06106 USA; [Garibay, Erin J.; Cohen, Andrew] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Ctr Mot Anal, Farmington, CT USA; [Nissen, Carl W.] PRISM Sports Med, Hartford, CT USA; [Solomito, Matthew J.] Hartford Hosp, Res Dept, Bone & Joint Inst, Hartford, CT 06106 USA								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000769351300001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Cvetic, Danilo; Janicijevic, Danica; Knezevic, Olivera M.; Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Mirkov, Dragan M.								Methodological considerations for assessing whole-body strength capacity through isometric dynamometry								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	12			2649	2663		10.1080/14763141.2022.2048063			DEC 1 2024	2024	The present study aimed to explore the possibility of comprehensively assessing whole-body muscle strength by testing as few muscle groups as possible, using a single testing method (isometric or isokinetic dynamometry) and a single variable (maximal force or rate of force development). Knee, hip, shoulder and elbow extensors and flexors were evaluated in males with high (n = 26) and low strength levels (n = 32). The principal component analysis revealed three factors that explained 62.5% of the total variance, while the main factors were loaded by the different testing methods and strength variables for the muscles acting on the knee (first component), hip (second component) and arm joints (third component). These results were confirmed by a three-way ANOVA which revealed a significant factor of group (P < 0.001) and the interaction test type x group (P = 0.002), but not of test type (P = 0.644), muscle group (P = 0.999), or their interactions (P > 0.205). The correlations of strength outcomes across the muscles ranged from trivial to very large (r range = -0.17, 0.84), being generally higher for the antagonistic muscles. Overall, a comprehensive assessment of whole-body muscle strength can be obtained using isometric dynamometry and maximal force, but it should consider at least one muscle group from the antagonistic pair.		[Cvetic, Danilo; Janicijevic, Danica; Knezevic, Olivera M.; Mirkov, Dragan M.] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Res Ctr, Belgrade, Serbia; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Janicijevic, Danica] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Res Ctr, Belgrade, Serbia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000769218200001	50	Article; Article		
J	Giatsis, George; Drikos, Sotirios; Lola, Afroditi								Analysis of match report indicators in men's volleyball olympics and world championships (2014-2021) depending on the type of final score								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	3			874	882	17479541221086779	10.1177/17479541221086779			JUN 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to explore the match and technical indicators between winning and losing teams in the Olympics and World Championships (2016-2021) depending on the final score of the matches. A total of 273 volleyball match reports were analyzed from the Men's Olympics (2016 and 2021) and World Championships (2014-2018). Discriminant function analysis determined which skill(s) contributed significantly to winning in matches with various score types. This study showed that for 3- and 4-set matches attack was the best predictor for team's success, while block and serve had also meaningful contribution. In 5-set matches serve and block points were the main predictors of a team's success. The results on the importance of scoring skills highlight the necessity of sustained trainability of all match actions, not favoring one, such as attack, too much. The essential for this balance is confirmed by the fact that teams do not increase their probability of winning a match by success only in attack, but also in the other terminal actions such as serve and block.		[Giatsis, George; Lola, Afroditi] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Drikos, Sotirios] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Giatsis, George] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Thessaloniki 57001, Greece								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000773081000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Schultz, Mohamed; Tol, Johannes L.; Veltman, Linda; van der Kaaden, Lisanne; Reurink, Gustaaf								Osgood-Schlatter Disease in youth elite football: Minimal time-loss and no association with clinical and ultrasonographic factors								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				98	105		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.02.024			MAY 2022	2022	Background: Osgood-Schlatter Disease is the most common cause of knee pain in youth. Scientific research in youth elite football is limited. Objectives: To assess clinical and ultrasonographic factors associated with Osgood-Schlatter Disease and calculate point prevalence of clinical diagnosis and time-loss in youth elite male football. Study design: Nested case-control study and cross-sectional prevalence study; Level of evidence: 3. Methods: We obtained data during the pre-season periodic health evaluation. Osgood-Schlatter Disease diagnosis was defined as (1) athlete-reported anterior knee pain and (2) clinical confirmation by pain provocation at the tibial tuberosity. Time-loss was defined as inability to participate in team training and/ or competition. For the nested-case control study, we examined clinical and ultrasonographic factors in the U13 to U16 teams. We matched on calendar-age. The clinical factors were: self-reported history of Sever's disease, growth measures, leg muscles flexibility and strength and ultrasonographic bone maturity stages according to Ehrenborg, For the cross-sectional study, we included players of the U13 to U19 teams to calculate the point prevalence. Results: The case-control study consisted 30 players and the cross-sectional study 127 players. Previous Sever's disease was strongly associated with Osgood-Schlatter Disease (OR = 16.8; p = 0.02; 95% CI = 1.6 -174.5). None of the other clinical or ultrasonographic factors were associated. The point prevalence was 17% and 80% had no time-loss despite presence of clinical symptoms. Conclusion: Considering the 16.8OR, previous Sever's disease indicates a strong association with OsgoodSchlatter Disease. Although generally suggested, growth velocity and bone maturity are not associated in an age-matched comparison. (c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).		[Schultz, Mohamed; Reurink, Gustaaf] Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam UMC, Dept Orthoped Surg, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Tol, Johannes L.; Reurink, Gustaaf] Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Tol, Johannes L.; Reurink, Gustaaf] Aspetar Orthoped & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Tol, Johannes L.; Veltman, Linda; van der Kaaden, Lisanne] AFC Ajax, Med Performance Dept, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Reurink, Gustaaf] OLVG, Sports Phys Grp, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Schultz, Mohamed] Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam UMC, Dept Orthoped Surg, Amsterdam, Netherlands								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000012	29	Article; Article		
J	Mazalan, Nur Shakila; Landers, Grant Justin; Wallman, Karen Elizabeth; Ecker, Ullrich								Ice Ingestion Maintains Cognitive Performance during a Repeated Sprint Performance in The Heat								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	2			164	170		10.52082/jssm.2022.164			JUN 2022	2022	This study investigated the effects of precooling via crushed ice ingestion on cognitive performance during repeated-sprint cycling in the heat. Nine males, non-heat acclimatised to heat (mean age: 28.2 +/- 2.7 y; height: 175.7 +/- 9.7 cm; body-mass: 76.9 +/- 10.6 kg) completed a 30 min bout of repeated-sprint (36 x 4 s sprints, interspersed with 56 s rest-breaks) on a cycle ergometer in a climate chamber (35 degrees C, 70% relative humidity). Crushed ice ingestion (7g.kg(-1), -0.4 degrees C, ICE) or no cooling (CON) interventions were completed at rest, in the climate chamber, 30 min prior to exercise. Working memory was assessed via the serial seven test (S7) and the automated operation span task (OSPAN) at various time points before, during, and post-exercise. Core body temperature (T-c), forehead temperature (T-h), and thermal sensation (TS) were assessed throughout the protocol. Working memory significantly declined during exercise in CON as measured by S7 (p = 0.01) and OSPAN (p = 0.03); however, it was preserved in ICE with no change at the end of exercise in either S7 or OSPAN scores compared to baseline (p = 0.50, p = 0.09, respectively). Following precooling, T-h (-0.59 degrees C, p < 0.001) and T-c (-0.67 degrees C, p = 0.005) were significantly decreased in ICE compared to CON. At the end of the exercise, ICE significantly reduced T-c compared to CON (p = 0.03), but no significant differences were recorded for T-h. Further, TS was lower following precooling in ICE (p = 0.008) but not during exercise. In conclusion, ice ingestion significantly reduced T-h and T-c and facilitated maintenance of cognitive performance during repeated-sprint exercise in the heat, which may lead to better decision making.		[Mazalan, Nur Shakila; Landers, Grant Justin; Wallman, Karen Elizabeth] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sports Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Ecker, Ullrich] Univ Western Australia, Sch Psychol Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Mazalan, Nur Shakila] Natl Univ Malaysia, Fac Educ, Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia; [Mazalan, Nur Shakila] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sports Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Mazalan, Nur Shakila] Natl Univ Malaysia, Fac Educ, Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000771746900001	46	Article; Article		
J	Aghedu, Fabio Cannas; Ghedina, Mariapia; Adam-Troian, Jais; Lux-Sterrit, Laurence; Graziani, Pierluigi; Bisiacchi, Patrizia S.								Devils or angels when in love? An exploratory study investigating romantic love among high-risk athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			500	507	17479541221086596	10.1177/17479541221086596			APR 2023	2023	In recent years, research on high-risk athletes has focused mainly on personality traits, highlighting a complex and often ambivalent personality structure. Although scholars pointed out emotional difficulties amongst high-risk athletes, there exists to this day no in-depth investigation of the affective aspect. In an effort to address this so-far neglected question, this study offers the first thorough exploration of patterns of romantic relationships among high-risk athletes. Two groups were selected: people who practice extreme sports (N = 189; Extreme) and those who practice other types of sports (N = 207; Non-extreme). A series of tests were administered to evaluate romantic love, personality traits and self-esteem. Results showed that Extreme tend to display less intense feelings than their Non-extreme counterparts; conversely, their sentimental relationships are characterized by positive emotions and stable feelings, avoiding negative emotions. Hence, despite stereotypes which characterize Extreme as thrill-seekers prone to impulsivity, it seems that this group do not in fact seek as many thrills in their love life, but rather seek stability and contentment. Although still in it explorative phase, this study produced preliminary data which should be considered in devising further assessment and therapeutic strategies for this population of athletes.		[Aghedu, Fabio Cannas; Ghedina, Mariapia; Bisiacchi, Patrizia S.] Univ Padua, Dept Gen Psychol, Padua, Italy; [Adam-Troian, Jais] Keele Univ, Sch Psychol, Keele, Newcastle, England; [Lux-Sterrit, Laurence] Aix Marseille Univ, LERMA, Aix En Provence, France; [Graziani, Pierluigi] Univ Nimes, Dept Psychol, Languages, Letters,Hist, Nimes, France; [Bisiacchi, Patrizia S.] Padova Neurosci Ctr, Padua, Italy; [Aghedu, Fabio Cannas] Univ Padua, Dept Gen Psychol, Padua, Italy								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000772050000001	54	Article; Article		
J	Campbell, Belinda C.; Davy, Jonathan P.; Pote, Lee; Christie, Candice J.								The effect of time of day on adolescent fast bowling performance: A pilot study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			584	593	17479541221080630	10.1177/17479541221080630			APR 2023	2023	The game of cricket is played at various times of the day and no studies have investigated the time of day effects on perceptual, physical and performance measures of cricketers. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to focus on adolescent fast bowlers and their responses when bowling at different times of the day. First team, adolescent male fast bowlers (N = 5, Mean age 17.00 +/- 0.55 years; stature 185.2 +/- 6.5 cm and mass 86.06 +/- 17.56 kg) were required to complete a fast-bowling simulation protocol whereby perceptual, physical and bowling-specific performance measures were tested at three different times of day (10:30, 14:30, 18:30). Over all the spells over one was significantly slower than all the other overs. There were no significant changes in bowling speed between the time intervals. However, there was a large increase in bowling speed at 14:30 compared to 10:30 (ES - 1.25) and a moderate increase in bowling speed (ES = 0.67) between 10:30 and 18:30. There was no significant change in accuracy at the different time intervals although it was best at 10:30 followed by 18:30 although the latter had a greater variance. In conclusion, this investigation found time of day did not significantly impact the responses, but the effects sizes show that bowling accuracy was worst at 14:30 despite the other parameters, such as speed of delivery, being best at this time, which may suggest a speed-accuracy trade-off. Additionally, both 10:30 and 18:30 were found to be times conducive to bowling performance with regards to accuracy.		[Campbell, Belinda C.; Davy, Jonathan P.; Christie, Candice J.] Rhodes Univ, Dept Human Kinet & Ergon, ZA-6140 Grahamstown, South Africa; [Pote, Lee] Univ Derby, Sch Human Sci, Derby, Derby, England; [Christie, Candice J.] Rhodes Univ, Dept Human Kinet & Ergon, ZA-6140 Grahamstown, South Africa								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000772050200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Alves, Jose Wifison; Farias-Junior, Luiz Fernando; de Lucena Alves, Charles Philipe; Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis; Costa, Eduardo Caldas								Low-Volume High-Intensity Interval Training Sessions with Different Work-Recovery Durations and Muscle Damage in Trained Men								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			73	81		10.1080/02701367.2021.1939844			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study compared the effect of low-volume high-intensity training (LV-HIIT) sessions with different work-recovery durations on muscle damage markers.Methods: Twenty-four trained adult males (22.3 +/- 2.9 years; 24.6 +/- 2.7 kg center dot m-2) performed two LV-HIIT sessions (10 x 60 s and 20 x 30 s at 100% of maximal aerobic speed on treadmill (Vmax) interspersed with equal time passive recovery, respectively) in a randomized, counter-balanced order, separated by a 1-week interval. Delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) and countermovement vertical jump height (CVJH) performance were assessed before, and 24-h and 48-h post sessions.Results: Pressure-pain threshold (PPT), pressure-pain tolerance (PPTol) and perceived pain intensity (PPI) using pressure algometry assessed DOMS in the rectus rectus femoris, biceps femoris and gastroctemius. A non-significant session by time interaction for PPT, PPTol and PPI in all muscles analyzed was observed (all P > 0.260). Additionally, a non-significant session by time interaction was observed for CVJH performance (P = 0.836).Conclusion: LV-HIIT sessions with different work-recovery durations elicited non-significant changes on muscle damage markers following 24- and 48-h in trained males.		[Alves, Jose Wifison; Farias-Junior, Luiz Fernando; de Lucena Alves, Charles Philipe; Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis; Costa, Eduardo Caldas] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Costa, Eduardo Caldas] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Phys Educ, Univ Campus,BR 101, BR-59078970 Natal, RN, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000769872400001	47	Article; Article		
J	Dickey, Leaha; Ramsey, Codi; Humphrey, Richard; Middlemas, Simon; Murray, Eoin; Spencer, Kirsten								The Working Conditions of Performance Analysts in Oceania								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			532	538	17479541221085775	10.1177/17479541221085775			APR 2023	2023	Performance analysis (PA) has become an essential tool in the sports industry and employment in this sector is growing across all levels in Oceania. Despite the continued growth of research on PA there is little known about the specific working conditions of the analysts. The aim of this research is to understand the working conditions of performance analysts employed in the Oceania region and to and identify ways to better support practitioners. An online survey distributed to performance analysts in Oceania collected data on PA demographics, job type, remuneration and job satisfaction. Sixty-five performance analysts across a wide range of the industry completed the survey. Data analysis involving descriptive statistics, a T-test and a Mann Whitney U test showed that responding performance analysts were predominantly young males earning an average of $62,000 per annum, with six years of experience and a bachelor's degree or higher qualification. Pay varied significantly across the industry and analysts frequently travelled and worked above their agreed hours without extra remuneration, all conditions that have been shown to lead to burnout and poor long-term retention in similar industries. However, the participants primarily responded 'strongly agree' or 'somewhat agree' to six out of the nine intrinsic work quality questions and overall, the analysts felt valued in their workplace and were satisfied with their job.		[Dickey, Leaha; Ramsey, Codi; Humphrey, Richard; Middlemas, Simon] Otago Polytech, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Murray, Eoin; Spencer, Kirsten] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst SPRINZ, Sport Technol Res Grp, Auckland, New Zealand; [Spencer, Kirsten] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst SPRINZ, Sport Technol Res Grp, Auckland, New Zealand								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000770003100001	16	Article; Article		
J	Pluss, Matthew A.; Novak, Andrew R.; Bennett, Kyle J. M.; Panchuk, Derek; Coutts, Aaron J.; Fransen, Job								The reliability and validity of mobalytics proving ground as a perceptual-motor skill assessment for esports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	2			470	479	17479541221086793	10.1177/17479541221086793			APR 2023	2023	This study aimed to investigate the test-retest reliability and discriminant validity of the Mobalytics Proving Ground (TM) assessment for League of Legends. Forty participants (age: 24.15 +/- 3.68 y, sex: male = 31, female = 9) were a priori classified into two expertise groups: (1) esports players (age: 22.98 +/- 3.64 y, sex: male = 18, female = 2), and (2) controls (age: 25.31 +/- 3.42 y, sex: male = 13, female = 7). Participants completed three separate trials (60 s each) online. To assess test-retest reliability, variables displaying normal distributions were analysed using intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) estimates for two-way mixed-effects models with 95% confidence intervals. The average ICC for all the independent variables in the esports group and control group were moderate (ICC esports = 0.53 and ICC control = 0.72). The average 95% confidence intervals for the independent variables in the esports and control group were ICC = 0.30-0.75 and ICC = 0.55-0.86, respectively. A Friedman test revealed an effect size of 0.11 in the esports group and 0.07 in the control group. In terms of discriminant validity, there were significant differences for 17 variables when comparing the best scores of each group. Overall, the Mobalytics Proving Ground (TM) assessment used in the current study can, to some extent, distinguish esports players from controls.		[Pluss, Matthew A.; Novak, Andrew R.; Coutts, Aaron J.; Fransen, Job] Univ Technol Sydney, Human Performance Res Ctr, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Fac Hlth, Moore Pk, Australia; [Bennett, Kyle J. M.] Southern Cross Univ, Fac Hlth, Coffs Harbour, Australia; [Panchuk, Derek] Victoria Univ, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Panchuk, Derek] Australian Inst Sport, Movement Sci, Bruce, Australia; [Bennett, Kyle J. M.] Southern Cross Univ, Fac Hlth, Coffs Harbour, Australia								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000770004100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Seligman, Eva; Beasley, Michael A.; Christino, Melissa A.; Miller, Patricia E.; Kobelski, Greggory; Stracciolini, Andrea								Changes in training patterns and confidence to return to sport in United States collegiate athletes during the COVID-19 pandemic								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	3			269	274		10.1080/00913847.2022.2046957			MAY 4 2023	2023	Objective: To describe the training patterns, return to sport (RTS) confidence, and perceived fitness during the COVID-19 pandemic summer 2020 and to compare training patterns and RTS readiness during COVID-19 versus during the 2019 summer in a cohort of Division III collegiate athletes. Methods: An electronic survey of varsity athletes >= 18 years at three United States Division III colleges querying athlete demographics, Modified Athletic Identity Scale (mAIMS), changes in training regimen summer 2020 vs. 2019, RTS confidence, and perceived physical fitness. Results: One hundred and ninety-two surveys were completed (19% response). Total reported summer 2020 training decreased by 4 hours/week, with increased aerobic (56% vs. 53%, p = 0.03) and decreased sport-specific training (48% vs 70%, p < 0.001). Median RTS confidence score for formal training and competition was 3 ('neither more or less confident') in men's versus 2 ('less confident') in women's athletes. Median fitness self-assessment for men's athletes was 3 ('neither more nor less physically fit') compared to previous season versus median score of 2 ('less physically fit) among women's athletes (p = 0.004). For each mAIMS unit, training increased by 11 minutes/week (95% CI: 2-19 minutes; p = 0.01) and sport-specific training increased by 1.3% (95% CI: 0.5-2.2%; p = 0.003), controlling for age, sport, grade, and school. mAIMS was not associated with confidence or fitness rating. Conclusion: Collegiate athletes decreased overall training hours, particularly sport-specific training time during the COVID-19 summer compared to the prior summer. Athletic identity was related to overall and sport-specific training hours but not confidence to RTS or fitness.		[Seligman, Eva; Beasley, Michael A.; Christino, Melissa A.; Miller, Patricia E.; Kobelski, Greggory; Stracciolini, Andrea] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Dept Orthoped Surg, Boston, MA USA; [Seligman, Eva] Johns Hopkins Univ, Boston Childrens Hosp, Sch Med, Dept Pediat,Div Pediat Emergency Med, 1800 Orleans St-G1516, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000766119100001	28	Article; Article		
J	Thormann, Tim F.; Gehrmann, Sebastian; Wicker, Pamela								The Wellbeing Valuation Approach: The Monetary Value of Sport Participation and Volunteering for Different Life Satisfaction Measures and Estimators								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	8			1096	1115	15270025221085716	10.1177/15270025221085716			DEC 2022	2022	This study applies the wellbeing valuation approach to sport participation and volunteering using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel. Linear regression results show that sport and volunteering hours increase satisfaction with life, health, work, income, and leisure, but with diminishing returns in most models. In a seemingly unrelated regression, some of these effects turn insignificant. The instrumental variable estimates show causal impacts of sporting hours on all wellbeing measures, while volunteering only impacts health satisfaction. The monetary values vary depending on the type of wellbeing measure and estimator, indicating that future studies should consider the employed measures and estimators.		[Thormann, Tim F.; Gehrmann, Sebastian; Wicker, Pamela] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Univ Str 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany; [Wicker, Pamela] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Univ Str 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, Germany								14							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000769211200001	45	Article; Article		
J	den Hollander, Steve; Lambert, Michael; Jones, Ben; Hendricks, Sharief								The relationship between physical qualities and contact technique in academy rugby union players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			57	66	17479541221076297	10.1177/17479541221076297			FEB 2023	2023	This study investigated the relationship between physical qualities and contact technique proficiency in rugby union players. Thirty-eight (n = 38) male academy rugby union players participated in the study. Physical measures of anthropometry, functional mobility, strength endurance, strength, power, speed, agility, and anaerobic and aerobic endurance were assessed. Tackler, ball-carrier, and ruck technique were assessed using video analysis of a standardised two-on-two contact drill. Seven physical qualities were moderately associated with tackler technique; Push-ups (r(2) = 0.2; beta = 0.04; p = 0.005; ES = 0.26), Sit-ups (r(2) = 0.2; beta = 0.08; p = 0.004; ES = 0.27), Relative 1RM Bench Press (r(2) = 0.2; beta = 2.32; p = 0.003; ES = 0.29), Broad Jump (r(2) = 0.2; beta = 0.03; p = 0.009; ES = 0.22), Agility (r(2) = 0.2; beta = -0.47; p = 0.019; ES = 0.19), 40m-Speed with Ball (r(2) = 0.1; beta = 0.93; p = 0.027; ES = 0.16) and Functional Mobility (r(2) = 0.2; beta = 0.16; p = 0.007; ES = 0.25). There was a large association between ball-carrier technique and Medicine Ball Throw (r(2) = 0.3; beta = 1.13; p = 0.001; ES = 0.37), and a moderate association between ruck technique and agility without (r(2) = 0.2; beta = -0.75; p = 0.005; ES = 0.21) and with (r(2) = 0.2; beta = -0.55; p = 0.015; ES = 0.29) the ball. The findings demonstrate the important contribution of physical strength and conditioning to contact technique in rugby union players. Contact technique training should be accompanied with physical strength and conditioning, as improvements in physical qualities may serve as foundational components to underpin improvements in technique.		[den Hollander, Steve; Lambert, Michael; Jones, Ben; Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Physiol Sci, POB 115, ZA-7725 Cape Town, Newlands, South Africa; [den Hollander, Steve; Lambert, Michael; Jones, Ben; Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Lifestyle & Sport Res Ctr HPALS, Dept Human Biol,Hlth Phys Act, Cape Town, South Africa; [den Hollander, Steve] Western Prov Rugby Acad, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben; Hendricks, Sharief] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] England Performance Unit, Rugby Football League, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Physiol Sci, POB 115, ZA-7725 Cape Town, Newlands, South Africa								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000769011700001	41	Article; Article		
J	Sahabuddin, Farhah Nadhirah Aiman; Jamaludin, Nazatul Izzati; Hamzah, Nurul Azuar; Chok, Chuen Leang; Shaharudin, Shazlin								The effects of hip- and ankle-focused exercise intervention on lower limb mechanics during single leg squat among physically active females								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				70	79		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.03.001			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: There are two types of kinetic chain in dynamic knee valgus (DKV) namely top-down (proximal origins) and bottom-up (distal origins). This study compared the influence of four-week hip- and ankle-focused exercises on lower limb mechanics during single-leg squat (SLS) among physically active females. Methods: Thirty-six physically active females with excessive DKV were divided into either HIP, ANKLE, or control groups. The intervention groups completed exercises that focused either on the hip or ankle musculature for 12 sessions over four weeks. The SLS test protocol was performed with 3D motion capture at pre- and post-intervention. Data were analyzed with two-way ANOVA test. Results: HIP group showed increased dominant knee (F (2.66) = 9.437, P = .001) and ankle (F(2.66) = 16.465, P = .001) sagittal moment during 45 degrees SLS at post-intervention compared to ANKLE and Control groups. HIP group also showed increased hip flexion angle for dominant (F(2.66) = 12.032, P = .001) and non-dominant leg (F(2.66) = 3.618, P = .032) compared to other groups during 60 degrees SLS. No other significant differences were observed on other variables. Conclusion: DKV did not show any significant changes during SLS after a four-week exercise intervention focusing on hip and ankle joints. (C) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sahabuddin, Farhah Nadhirah Aiman; Jamaludin, Nazatul Izzati; Hamzah, Nurul Azuar; Shaharudin, Shazlin] Univ Sains Malaysia, Sch Hlth Sci, Exercise & Sports Sci Programme, Kubang Kerian 16150, Kelantan, Malaysia; [Chok, Chuen Leang] Natl Sports Inst Malaysia, Ctr Sports Biomech, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Shaharudin, Shazlin] Univ Sains Malaysia, Sch Hlth Sci, Exercise & Sports Sci Programme, Kubang Kerian 16150, Kelantan, Malaysia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000009	35	Article; Article		
J	Glynn, Brian; Laird, Jason; Herrington, Lee; Rushton, Alison; Heneghan, Nicola R.								Analysis of landing performance and ankle injury in elite British artistic gymnastics using a modified drop land task: A longitudinal observational study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				61	69		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.01.006			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To determine whether differences in landing force and asymmetry of landing force exist between gymnasts at the time of data collection versus those that subsequently experienced an ankle injury 12-months later. Study design: Prospective longitudinal observational design with baseline measures and 12 month follow up. Setting: British Gymnastics National Training Centre. Participants: Thirty-two asymptomatic elite level gymnasts from three artistic gymnastic squads (n = 15 senior female, n = 10 junior female and n = 7 senior male). Main outcome measures: A modified drop land task was used to quantify measures of landing performance. Peak Vertical Ground Reaction Force (PVGRF) was used to measure landing force. The level of inter-limb asymmetry of landing force was calculated using the Limb Symmetry index (LSI). Other measures included injury incidence and percentage coefficient of variation (% CV). Results: There was no statistical difference for landing force (p = 0.481) and asymmetry of landing force (p = 0.698) when comparing injured and non-injured gymnasts. Most participants (69%) demonstrated inter-limb asymmetry of landing forces. Conclusions: Our findings observed inter-limb asymmetry of landing force in injured gymnasts, although uninjured gymnasts also exhibited asymmetry of landing force. Both magnitude of landing force and inter-limb asymmetries of landing force failed to identify the risk of ankle injury. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Glynn, Brian; Rushton, Alison; Heneghan, Nicola R.] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise Rehabil Sci, Ctr Precis Rehabil Spinal Pain, Birmingham B15 2TT, W Midlands, England; [Laird, Jason] English Inst Sport, Lilleshall Natl Sports Ctr, Newport TF10 9A, Shrops, England; [Herrington, Lee] Univ Salford, English Inst Sport, Manchester Inst Hlth & Performance, 299 Alan Turing Way, Manchester M11 3BS, Lancs, England; [Rushton, Alison] Western Univ, Elborn Coll, London, ON N6G 1H1, Canada; [Heneghan, Nicola R.] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise Rehabil Sci, Ctr Precis Rehabil Spinal Pain, Birmingham B15 2TT, W Midlands, England								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000008	49	Article; Article		
J	Green, Edward S.; Williams, Ewan R.; Feito, Yuri; Jenkins, Nathan T.								Physiological and Anthropometric Differences among Endurance, Strength and High-Intensity Functional Training Participants: A Cross-Sectional Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			131	142		10.1080/02701367.2021.1947468			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: We compared aerobic capacity ((V) over dotO(2 max)), mitochondrial capacity (m(V) over dotO(2)), anaerobic power, strength, and muscle endurance in healthy, active men from strength (STR), endurance (END) and high-intensity functional training (HIFT) backgrounds. Methods: Twenty-four men (n = 8/group) completed a cycle ergometer test to determine (V) over dotO(2 max), followed by a 3-min all-out test to determine peak (PP) and end power (EP), and to estimate anaerobic [work done above EP (WEP)] and aerobic work capacity. Strength was determined by knee extensor maximal voluntary contraction at various flexion angles. The endurance index (EI) of the vastus lateralis (VL) was assessed by measuring muscle contraction acceleration during electrical twitch mechanomyography. m(V) over dotO(2 max) of the VL was assessed using near-infrared spectroscopy to estimate muscle oxygen consumption during transient femoral artery occlusions. Results: (V) over dotO(2 max) was significantly different among groups (p < .05). PP was significantly higher in HIFT and STR versus END (p < .05). EP was significantly higher in HIFT and END compared to STR (p < .05). WEP was significantly higher in STR compared to END (p < .05), whereas total work done was significantly higher in HIFT and END compared to STR (p < .05). m(V) over dotO(2 max) and EI were comparable between HIFT and END but significantly lower in STR versus END (p < .05). Torque production was significantly lower in END compared to STR and HIFT at all flexion angles (p < .05), with no difference between STR and HIFT. Conclusion: HIFT participants can exert similar power outputs and absolute strength compared to strength focused participants but exhibit fatigue resistance and mitochondrial capacity comparable to those who train for endurance.		[Green, Edward S.; Williams, Ewan R.; Jenkins, Nathan T.] Univ Georgia, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Feito, Yuri] Kennesaw State Univ Kennesaw, Kennesaw, GA USA; [Jenkins, Nathan T.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, 115M Ramsey Ctr 330 River Rd, Athens, GA 30602 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000770477600001	53	Article; Article		
J	Vosburg, Emily; Hinkey, Michelle; Meyers, Rachel; Csonka, Jennifer; Salesi, Karl; Siesel, Tara; Fonseca, Jose; Zarzour, Robert; Sell, Timothy; Faherty, Mallory								The association between lower extremity strength ratios and the history of injury in collegiate athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				55	60		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.02.004			MAY 2022	2022	Context: Strength ratios are important because imbalances in opposing muscle groups can cause articular instability and subsequently increase the risk of musculoskeletal injury (MSKI). Therefore, the purpose of this study was to evaluate the association between lower extremity (LE) musculoskeletal isometric strength ratios and the history of LE MSKI. Participants: One hundred eighty-two NCAA Division 1 soccer, football, volleyball, and basketball athletes. Interventions: All isometric strength assessments were measured bilaterally using a handheld dynamometer. Strength assessments included: ankle inversion/eversion, ankle dorsiflexion/plantarflexion, knee flexion/extension, hip abduction/adduction, and hip external/internal rotation. LE MSKI history was collected through self-report; a report of the LE MSKI sustained in the one year prior to testing were collected. Results: The hip external/internal rotation ratio was statistically significant for side to side differences in the non-injured (NINJ) group (p 1/4 0.001). The dominant leg of the NINJ group had a mean external/ internal rotation ratio of 1.109 +/- 0.221, and the non-dominant leg had a mean ratio of 1.177 +/- 0.208. Conclusions: There were no statistically significant differences between the injured (INJ) and NINJ groups. This could indicate that injury history does not play a role in current strength ratios and could suggest that the athletes in the INJ group are performing successful rehabilitation for their injuries. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Vosburg, Emily; Hinkey, Michelle; Meyers, Rachel] Duke Univ, Sch Med, Phys Therapy Div, Durham, NC USA; [Csonka, Jennifer; Salesi, Karl] Univ Pittsburgh, Dept Athlet, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Siesel, Tara; Fonseca, Jose; Zarzour, Robert] Duke Univ, Athlet Med, Durham, NC USA; [Sell, Timothy] Atrium Hlth, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Charlotte, NC USA; [Faherty, Mallory] OhioHlth Res Inst, Columbus, OH USA; [Faherty, Mallory] Ohio Hlth Res Inst, Acad Res Serv, 3545 Olentangy River Rd, Columbus, OH 43214 USA								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000007	14	Article; Article		
J	Roughead, Eliza A.; King, Matthew G.; Crossley, Kay M.; Heerey, Josh J.; Lawrenson, Peter R.; Scholes, Mark J.; Semciw, Adam I.; Mentiplay, Benjamin F.; Kemp, Joanne L.								Football players with long standing hip and groin pain display deficits in functional task performance								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				46	54		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.02.023			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: i) Compare functional task performance between football players with and without hip/groin pain. ii) Explore the relationship, and sex-specific effects, between functional tasks and the Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS) in players with hip/groin pain. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 183 (38 women) football players with a self-reported history of >6months of non-time-loss hip/groin pain and a positive flexion-adduction-internal rotation test, and 61 (14 women) asymptomatic players. Main outcome: Participants completed the hop-for-distance (HFD), one leg rise (OLR), side bridge (SB) endurance, and HAGOS. Study aims were assessed using linear models, controlling for body mass index and age, incorporating sex-specific interaction terms. Results: Players with hip/groin pain could not hop as far (adjusted mean difference:-9 cm, 95% CI:-15 cm to-2cm, P=0.012) and completed fewer OLR repetitions (adjusted mean difference-7, 95% confidence interval-11 to-3 repetitions, P=0.001) compared to asymptomatic players. Symptomatic women, but not symptomatic men, with worse HAGOS scores had lower SB endurance. Independent of sex, football players with worse HAGOS scores could not hop as far and completed fewer OLR repetitions. Conclusion: Football players with hip/groin pain demonstrated deficits in HFD and OLR with the performance of these tasks associated with their HAGOS results. The study identifies potential impairments that can be targeted as a component of rehabilitation programs for football players with hip/groin pain. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Roughead, Eliza A.; King, Matthew G.; Crossley, Kay M.; Heerey, Josh J.; Scholes, Mark J.; Semciw, Adam I.; Mentiplay, Benjamin F.; Kemp, Joanne L.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Lawrenson, Peter R.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, St Lucia, Qld, Australia; [Kemp, Joanne L.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000006	44	Article; Article		
J	Andrade, Luana S.; David, Gabriela B.; Wilhelm, Eurico N.; Pinto, Stephanie S.; Alberton, Cristine L.								Effect of High Intensity Interval Treadmill Exercise on Subsequent Lower and Upper Limb Strength Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			143	150		10.1080/02701367.2021.1948954			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: The aim of this study was to analyze the acute effect of a treadmill high-intensity interval protocol on subsequent upper body and lower body strength exercise performance. Method: Sixteen young men had their maximal aerobic capacity and one-repetition maximum (1RM) determined and underwent four randomized conditions: a half-squat control session; a bench press control session; a treadmill interval protocol followed by a half-squat experimental session; and a treadmill interval protocol followed by a bench press experimental session. During the control sessions, four sets to failure for each exercise were performed at 80% of 1RM. In the experimental sessions, participants performed eight sprints of 40 s at 100% velocity of maximal oxygen uptake with 20 s of passive interval between them, followed by the same strength exercise protocol of the control sessions. The number of repetitions during each protocol and participants' heart rate (HR),and blood lactate concentration ([lac]) were compared pre and post protocols and exercises. Results: Fewer repetitions were completed in the experimental session compared to the control sessions (p < .001). Moreover, the reduction in number of repetitions performed was more evident in half-squat compared to bench press (p = .018). HR was higher at the end of sessions with the interval protocol for both exercises (p < .001). The [lac] was higher at the end of session with the interval protocol for half-squat (p = .003). Conclusions: These findings suggest that previous high-intensity interval running may impair subsequent strength exercise performance, but the magnitude of the negative effect is greater in the lower limbs.		[Andrade, Luana S.; David, Gabriela B.; Pinto, Stephanie S.; Alberton, Cristine L.] Univ Fed Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Wilhelm, Eurico N.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Andrade, Luana S.] Univ Fed Pelotas, Phys Educ Sch, Luis de Camoes St 625, Pelotas, RS, Brazil								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000770481600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Debanne, Thierry; Volossovitch, Anna								Team Regulatory Strategies and Performance in Elite Handball								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			151	162		10.1080/02701367.2021.1948955			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purposes: The purposes of this research were: 1) in a preliminary study, to identify regulatory strategies used by players and coaches according to situation reward structure (Gains vs. Losses); and 2) in the main study, to analyze the effect of the interaction between situation reward structure (Gains vs. Losses) and regulatory strategy (Prevention vs. Promotion) on team performance (scoring a goal) in real-world settings. Methods and Results: In the preliminary study, 25 adult male handball players and 19 coaches playing and coaching at national level in the French championships completed a version of the Regulatory Focus Strategies Scales after reading four handball game scenarios (two gain-oriented and two loss-avoidance oriented). Two-way ANOVA with repeated measures revealed that when the reward structure was gain-oriented, participants had higher scores in promotion regulatory strategy than in prevention regulatory strategy, and conversely. For the main study, a sample of 199 game phases was selected from 84 games played in the Lidl Star League (2017-2018 season). Mixed method analysis revealed a significant team regulatory fit effect, that is an interaction effect between reward structure and regulatory focus strategy on team performance. When there was a fit, both in loss-avoidance oriented and gain-oriented reward structure, performance was higher (OR = 1.64 and OR = 0.86, respectively) than when there was a mismatch (OR = 0.59 and OR = 0.27). Conclusion: These results confirm the applicability of the Regulatory Fit Theory in a real-world setting with professional players, and extend grounded social cognition research regulatory fit literature to team level.		[Debanne, Thierry] Univ Paris Est Creteil, LIRTES, F-94009 Creteil, France; [Volossovitch, Anna] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, BIOLAD, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Debanne, Thierry] Univ Paris Est Creteil, LIRTES, F-94009 Creteil, France								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000770469900001	73	Article; Article		
J	Xu, Jennifer; Thompson, Brennan J.; Spencer, Steven B.; Studenka, Breanna E.; Bressel, Eadric								Effects of Flywheel Resistance Training on Muscle Function and Sport-specific Performance in Collegiate Club Water Polo Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			98	109		10.1080/02701367.2021.1942417			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study investigated the effects of flywheel squat training on lower body muscle function adaptations and sport-specific performance in collegiate club water polo players. Methods: Thirteen collegiate club water polo athletes (5 women, 8 men) performed flywheel squat training for 4 weeks. Isokinetic knee extension (KE) peak power (PP) and peak torque (PT), flywheel squat peak power (FPP) and mean power (FMP), countermovement jump (CMJ), in-water jump height (WJH) and foot speed were assessed at baseline (Pre1), 4 weeks (Pre2), and 8 weeks (Post) with the first 4 week block being a control period and the second 4 week block being the experimental training. Throughout the training period muscle soreness was assessed using a VAS scale, and FPP and FMP were assessed during every other session. Results: Isokinetic KE PP and PT increased from Pre1 to Post, and FPP and FMP increased between Pre1 and Post, and Pre2 and Post. CMJ and foot speed were unchanged. WJH displayed a change between Pre1 and Post. FPP increased 19% from session 2 to 4 and FMP increased 27% from session 2 to 6, and each remained elevated through session 8. Conclusion: 4 weeks of flywheel squat training in collegiate club water polo players elicited large gains (47-52%) in flywheel-specific squat power, but did not influence sport-specific performance measures including CMJ, WJH, and foot speed. Water-based exercises and stretch-shortening cycle movements (plyometrics) in combination with effective resistance training programs, which may include flywheel-based training, are likely needed for marked sport skill improvements.		[Xu, Jennifer; Thompson, Brennan J.; Spencer, Steven B.; Studenka, Breanna E.; Bressel, Eadric] Utah State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, 7000 Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Thompson, Brennan J.] Utah State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, 7000 Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000769886100001	36	Article; Article		
J	Hafele, Mariana S.; Alberton, Cristine L.; Hafele, Vitor; Schaun, Gustavo Z.; Nunes, Gabriela N.; Calonego, Chaiane; Castro, Tamires F.; Andrade, Luana S.; Pinto, Stephanie S.								Water-based Training Programs Improve Functional Capacity, Cognitive and Hemodynamic Outcomes? The ACTIVE Randomized Clinical Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			24	34		10.1080/02701367.2021.1935433			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: To compare the effects of 16 weeks of aerobic training (AT) to 8 weeks of AT followed by 8 weeks of combined training (CT), as well as to a control group (CG), on the functional, cognitive and hemodynamic responses of older women exercising in the aquatic environment. Materials and Methods: The study is a three-armed parallel randomized controlled clinical trial. For this, 52 older women were first randomized in an aerobic training (AT; n = 35) or control group (CG; n = 17). After 8 weeks of intervention, participants from AT group were again randomized into another 8-week period of either AT (n = 17) or combined training (CT; n = 18). AT was performed at the percentage of the heart rate corresponding to the anaerobic threshold, resistance training was performed with sets at maximal effort and the control group performed low-intensity therapeutic exercises in water. All outcomes were assessed before (week 0) and after the intervention (week 17). In addition, some outcomes were also investigated in the middle timepoint (week 9). Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) and Bonferroni post-hoc tests (alpha = 0.05) were used to compare timepoints and groups. Results: All groups similarly improved functional capacity (3-11%) and blood pressure (-4 to -10%), whereas cognitive function was not modified for any group. Conclusion: Water-based training programs and therapeutic exercises (i.e., CG) improve functional capacity and blood pressure responses in older women. Clinical Trials NCT03892278.		[Hafele, Mariana S.; Alberton, Cristine L.; Hafele, Vitor; Schaun, Gustavo Z.; Nunes, Gabriela N.; Calonego, Chaiane; Castro, Tamires F.; Andrade, Luana S.; Pinto, Stephanie S.] Univ Fed Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Hafele, Mariana S.] Fed Univ Pelotas UFPel, Phys Educ Sch, Rua Luiz de Camoes 625, BR-96055630 Pelotas, RS, Brazil								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000769851400001	59	Article; Article		
J	Huang, Meizhen; Mo, Shiwei; Chan, Peter Pak-Kwan; Chan, Zoe Y. S.; Zhang-Lea, Janet H.; Cheung, Roy T. H.								The influence of running shoes on familiarization time for treadmill running biomechanics evaluation								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	3			459	472		10.1080/14763141.2022.2046144			MAR 4 2023	2023	This study investigated treadmill familiarisation time in different shoe conditions by comparing lower limb consecutive kinematics waveforms using a trend symmetry method to calculate trend symmetry index, range amplitude ratio and range offset. Eighteen young adults (26.6 +/- 3.3 years, 7 females) completed three 10-minute running trials at their preferred running speed (2.30 +/- 0.17 m/s) on a treadmill with three shoe conditions (i.e., usual, minimalist and maximalist shoes) in a random order. Sagittal lower limb kinematic data were recorded using inertial measurement units. The results showed that sagittal-plane kinematic waveforms in the hip, knee and ankle remained consistent (trend symmetry > 0.95) without extreme excursions (range amplitude ratio approximate to 1) over 10 minutes within each testing shoe condition. Significant time x shoe interaction effect was observed in range offset (i.e., absolute differences in the average degree of kinematic waveforms between consecutive minutes) at ankle (p = 0.029, eta(2)(p) = 0.096) and knee (p = 0.002, eta(2)(p) = 0.126). Post-hoc analysis suggested that running with novel shoes required a shorter time to achieve stable lower limb kinematics (2 to 3 minutes) compared with usual shoes (7 minutes). In conclusion, young healthy adults need up to 3 and 7 minutes to familiarise to the treadmill when running at their preferred speed with their novel and usual running shoes.		[Huang, Meizhen; Chan, Zoe Y. S.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Mo, Shiwei] Shenzhen Univ, Res Ctr Hlth & Exercise Sci, Div Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Shenzhen, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Chan, Peter Pak-Kwan] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Dept Informat Engn, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Chan, Zoe Y. S.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Zhang-Lea, Janet H.] Univ Colorado, Dept Integrat Physiol, Boulder, CO USA; [Cheung, Roy T. H.] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Penrith, NSW, Australia; [Huang, Meizhen] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000763199900001	34	Article; Article		
J	Wakefield-Scurr, Joanna; Hamilton, Caitlin; Reeves, Katie; Jones, Melissa; Jones, Brogan								The effect of washing and wearing on sports bra function								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2420	2430		10.1080/14763141.2022.2046147			NOV 1 2024	2024	Sports bras provide support by restricting breast motion during exercise, which may prevent damage to breast structures. Laundering affects the mechanical properties of some sports bra materials. Bra function on the wearer after washing is unreported, meaning sports bra durability is unknown. This intervention study compared subjective and objective performance of sports bras that were washed, and worn/washed, to a control. Twenty-two females were assigned three identical sports bras; control, washed and worn/washed (washed after 60-min wear). Pre-intervention: breast position was recorded while standing and running in each bra. Comfort, fit and aesthetics were rated. Intervention: participants undertook their normal exercise in their worn/washed bra. Post-intervention: after 25 washes (n = 19), pre-intervention testing was repeated. Breast volume and control bra motion were consistent pre/post-intervention; however, post-intervention breast motion increased (20% mediolaterally, 16% superioinferiorly) in washed bras and (32% mediolaterally, 25% superioinferiorly) worn/washed bras. Post-intervention washed, and worn/washed bras were perceived as less supportive and washed bras less comfortable than worn/washed bras. Sports bra support reduced after 25 washes; this was compounded by wear. Participants detected reduced support, but comfort was sustained, suggesting replacement may not be considered. Guidelines on sports bra durability are recommended for breast health.		[Wakefield-Scurr, Joanna; Hamilton, Caitlin; Reeves, Katie; Jones, Melissa; Jones, Brogan] Univ Portsmouth, Sch Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Res Grp Breast Hlth, Portsmouth, Hants, England; [Wakefield-Scurr, Joanna] Univ Portsmouth, Sch Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Res Grp Breast Hlth, Portsmouth, Hants, England								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000762546500001	29	Article; Article		
J	Labanca, Luciana; Rocchi, Jacopo E.; Giannini, Silvana; Faloni, Emanuele R.; Montanari, Giulio; Mariani, Pier Paolo; Macaluso, Andrea								Early Superimposed NMES Training is Effective to Improve Strength and Function Following ACL Reconstruction with Hamstring Graft regardless of Tendon Regeneration								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			91	103		10.52082/jssm.2022.91			MAR 2022	2022	The study aimed at investigating the effects of neuromuscular electrical stimulation superimposed on functional exercises (NMES+) early after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLr) with hamstring graft, on muscle strength, knee function, and morphology of thigh muscles and harvested tendons. Thirtyfour participants were randomly allocated to either NMES+ group, who received standard rehabilitation with additional NMES of knee flexor and extensor muscles, superimposed on functional movements, or to a control group, who received no additional training (NAT) to traditional rehabilitation. Participants were assessed 15 (T1), 30 (T2), 60 (T3), 90 (T4) and at a mean of 380 days (T5) after ACLr. Knee strength of flexors and extensors was measured at T3, T4 and T5. Lower limb loading asymmetry was measured during a sit-to-stand-to-sit movement at T1, T2, T3, T4 and T5, and a countermovement-jump at T4 and T5. An MRI was performed at T5 to assess morphology of thigh muscles and regeneration of the harvested tendons. NMES+ showed higher muscle strength for the hamstrings (T4, T5) and the quadriceps (T3, T4, T5), higher loading symmetry during stand-to-sit (T2, T3, T4, T5), sit-to-stand (T3, T4) and countermovement jump (T5) than NAT. No differences were found between-groups for morphology of muscles and tendons, nor in regeneration of harvested tendons. NMES+ early after ACLr with hamstring graft improves muscle strength and knee function in the short-and long-term after surgery, regardless of tendon regeneration.		[Labanca, Luciana; Mariani, Pier Paolo; Macaluso, Andrea] Univ Rome Foro Italico, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Piazza Lauro Bosis 6, I-00135 Rome, Italy; [Rocchi, Jacopo E.; Giannini, Silvana; Faloni, Emanuele R.; Montanari, Giulio; Mariani, Pier Paolo; Macaluso, Andrea] FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Villa Stuart Sport Clin, Rome, Italy; [Macaluso, Andrea] Univ Rome Foro Italico, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Piazza Lauro Bosis 6, I-00135 Rome, Italy								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500011	47	Article; Article		
J	Gabriel, Anna; Konrad, Andreas; Roidl, Anna; Queisser, Jennifer; Schleip, Robert; Horstmann, Thomas; Pohl, Torsten								Myofascial Treatment Techniques on the Plantar Surface Influence Functional Performance in the Dorsal Kinetic Chain								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			13	22		10.52082/jssm.2022.13			MAR 2022	2022	Prior studies have shown that self-and manual massage (SMM) increases flexibility in non-adjacent body areas. It is unclear whether this also influences performance in terms of force gener-ation. Therefore, this study investigated the effect of SMM on the plantar surface on performance in the dorsal kinetic chain. Sev-enteen young participants took part in this within-subject non-randomized controlled study. SMM was applied on the plantar surface of the dominant leg, but not on the non-dominant leg. A functional performance test of the dorsal kinetic chain, the Bunkie Test, was conducted before and after the intervention. We meas-ured the performance in seconds for the so-called posterior power line (PPL) and the posterior stabilizing line (PSL). The perfor-mance of the dominant leg in the Bunkie Test decreased signifi-cantly by 17.2% from (mean +/- SD) 33.1 +/- 9.9 s to 27.4 +/- 11.1 s for the PPL and by 16.3% from 27.6 +/- 9.8 s to 23.1 +/- 11.7 s for the PSL. This is in contrast to the non-dominant leg where per-formance increased significantly by 5.1% from 29.7 +/- 9.6 s to 31.1 +/- 8.9 s for the PPL and by 3.1% from 25.7 +/- 1.5 s to 26.5 +/- 1.7 s for the PSL. SMM interventions on the plantar surface might influence the performance in the dorsal kinetic chain.		[Gabriel, Anna; Queisser, Jennifer; Schleip, Robert; Horstmann, Thomas; Pohl, Torsten] Tech Univ Munich, Munich, Germany; [Konrad, Andreas] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci, Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Roidl, Anna] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Munich, Germany; [Schleip, Robert] Diploma Univ Appl Sci, Munich, Germany; [Schleip, Robert] Friedrich Schiller Univ, Dept Sports Med & Hlth Promot, Jena, Germany; [Gabriel, Anna] Tech Univ Munich, Munich, Germany								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500002	70	Article; Article		
J	Dobiasch, Martin; Krenn, Bjoern; Lamberts, Robert P.; Baca, Arnold								The Effects of Visual Feedback on Performance in Heart Rate- and Power-Based-Tasks during a Constant Load Cycling Test								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			49	57		10.52082/jssm.2022.49			MAR 2022	2022	Performance feedback can be essential for cyclists to help with pacing their efforts during competitions and also during standardized performance tests. However, the choice of feedback options on modern bike computers is limited. Moreover, little research on the effectiveness of the currently used feedback methods is available. In this study, two novel feedback variants using a bar or a tacho to visualize targets and deviation from targets were compared to a classic design using only numbers. Participants (6 female and 25 male trained to well-trained athletes) completed a protocol consisting of three heart rate-based tasks and one powerbased task. The displays were compared with respect to their ability to guide athletes during their trials. Results showed lower root mean square error (RMSE) of the novel variants, but no significant effect of feedback variant on RMSE was found for both tasks (p 0.05). However, when comparing the feedback variants on a person to person basis, significant differences were found for all investigated scenarios (p < 0.001). This leads to the conclusion that novel feedback variants can improve athletes' ability to follow heart rate-based and power-based protocols, but even better results might be achieved by individualizing the feedback.		[Dobiasch, Martin; Baca, Arnold] Univ Vienna, Dept Biomech Kinesiol & Comp Sci Sport, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Vienna, Austria; [Krenn, Bjoern] Univ Vienna, Dept Sociol Sport & Sport Psychol, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Vienna, Austria; [Lamberts, Robert P.] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Div Biokinet, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Dobiasch, Martin] Univ Vienna, Schmelz 6a, A-1150 Vienna, Austria								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500006	34	Article; Article		
J	Adams, Lauren; Pace, Nicolas; Heo, Austin; Hunter, Iain; Johnson, A. Wayne; Mitchell, Ulrike H.								Internal and External Oblique Muscle Asymmetry in Sprint Hurdlers and Sprinters: A Cross-Sectional Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			120	126		10.52082/jssm.2022.120			MAR 2022	2022	The abdominal muscles are vital in providing core stability for functional movements during most activities. There is a correla-tion between side asymmetry of these muscles and dysfunction. Thus, the purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare trunk muscle morphology and trunk rotational strength between sprint hurdlers, an asymmetrical sport, and sprinters, a symmetrical sport. Twenty-one trained collegiate sprint hurdlers and sprinters were recruited for the study (Hurdlers: 4M, 7F; Sprinters: 8M, 2F), average age (years) hurdlers: 20 +/- 1.2; sprinters: 20.4 +/- 1.9, height (cm) hurdlers: 172.6 +/- 10.2; sprinters: 181.7 +/- 4.5, and weight (kg) hurdlers: 67.6 +/- 12.0; sprinters: 73.9 +/- 5.6. Using real-time ultrasound, panoramic images of the internal oblique (IO) and external oblique (EO) were obtained at rest and con-tracted (flexion and rotation) in a seated position for both right and left sides of the trunk. While wearing a specially crafted shoulder harness, participants performed three maximal voluntary trunk rotational contractions (MVC). The three attempts were then averaged to obtain an overall MVC score for trunk rotation strength. Average MVC trunk rotational strength to the right was greater among all participants, p < 0.001. The IO showed greater and significant thickness changes from resting to contracted state than the EO, this was observed in all participants. The IO side asymmetry was significantly different between groups p < 0.01. Hurdlers, involved in a unilaterally demanding sport, exhibited the expected asymmetry in muscle morphology and in trunk rota-tional strength. Interestingly, sprinters, although involved in a seemingly symmetrical sport, also exhibited asymmetrical trunk morphology and trunk rotational strength.		[Adams, Lauren; Pace, Nicolas; Heo, Austin; Hunter, Iain; Johnson, A. Wayne; Mitchell, Ulrike H.] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Adams, Lauren] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT 84602 USA								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500014	41	Article; Article		
J	Walerianczyk, Wojciech; Stolarski, Maciej; Matthews, Gerald								Perfectionism Moderates the Effects of Goal-Realization on Post-Competition Mood in Amateur Runners								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			1	12		10.52082/jssm.2022.1			MAR 2022	2022	Perfectionism impacts how athletes evaluate their performance. However, little is known about how perfectionistic strivings and perfectionistic concerns interplay with athletes' anticipated and actual performance in predicting mood after the competition. Thus, we conducted a study with amateur runners [n = 152, (72 female, 80 male); Mean +/- SD age = 34.71 +/- 9.57] taking part in a competitive 10-kilometer street run. Perfectionism was measured before the run, while the measurement of mood was taken during the post-competition week. Mood was operationalized in the 3D model of mood, distinguishing between energetic arousal, tense arousal, and hedonic tone. Regression analysis showed that specific patterns of associations between perfectionism and goal -realization explain 17-21% of variance in the dimensions of mood. Higher pleasure after the run was predicted by lower perfectionistic concerns and better conversion of anticipated performance into actual performance. In predicting energy and tension, moderating effects of perfectionistic strivings, perfectionistic concerns, and conversion rate were observed. Johnson-Neyman technique revealed that only athletes low in perfectionistic concerns were able to benefit from lower tension when they met or exceeded their goals for the run. The higher athletes' perfectionistic strivings and conversion rate the more pronounced effects we observed for affect-energization. Results support the idea of perfectionistic reactivity, where the negative consequences of perfectionism can be observed in a lack of positive reactions to positive events. We also suggest that such a response to meeting or exceeding one's goal may contribute to the development of athlete burnout and hinder the development athlete engagement.		[Walerianczyk, Wojciech; Stolarski, Maciej] Univ Warsaw, Fac Psychol, Warsaw, Poland; [Matthews, Gerald] George Mason Univ, Dept Psychol, Fairfax, VA 22030 USA; [Walerianczyk, Wojciech] Univ Warsaw, Fac Psychol, Warsaw, Poland								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500001	63	Article; Article		
J	Kasahara, Kazuki; Yoshida, Riku; Yahata, Kaoru; Sato, Shigeru; Murakami, Yuta; Aizawa, Kodai; Konrad, Andreas; Nakamura, Masatoshi								Comparison of the Acute Effects of Foam Rolling with High and Low Vibration Frequencies on Eccentrically Damaged Muscle								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			112	119		10.52082/jssm.2022.112			MAR 2022	2022	Previous research has shown that vibration foam rolling (VFR) on damaged muscle shows greater improvement in muscle sore-ness and range of motion (ROM) compared with foam rolling (FR) without vibration. However, the effect of frequency in VFR on muscle soreness and loss of function caused by damaged mus-cles is unknown. The purpose of this study was to compare the acute effects of 90-s low-frequency (LF)-and high-frequency (HF)-VFR intervention on ROM, muscle soreness, muscle strength, and performance of eccentrically damaged muscle. Study participants were sedentary healthy adult volunteers (n = 28) who performed a bout of eccentric exercise of the knee exten-sors with the dominant leg and received 90-s LF-VFR or HF-VFR intervention of the quadriceps 48 h after the eccentric exercise. The dependent variables were measured before the eccentric ex-ercise (baseline) and before (pre-intervention) and after VFR in-tervention (post-intervention) 48 h after the eccentric exercise. The results showed that both LF-VFR and HF-VFR similarly (p < 0.05) improved the knee flexion ROM (11.3 +/- 7.2%), muscle soreness at palpation (-37.9 +/- 17.2%), and countermovement jump height (12.4 +/- 12.9%). It was concluded that it was not nec-essary to perform VFR with a high frequency to improve muscle soreness and function.		[Kasahara, Kazuki; Murakami, Yuta; Aizawa, Kodai; Nakamura, Masatoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, Niigata, Japan; [Yoshida, Riku; Yahata, Kaoru; Sato, Shigeru; Nakamura, Masatoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Sato, Shigeru] Matsumura Gen Hosp, Dept Rehabil, 1-1 Kotaroumachi, Iwaki, Fukushima, Japan; [Konrad, Andreas] Graz Univ, Inst Human Movement Sci Sport & Hlth, Graz, Austria; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Kita Ku, 1398 Shimami Cho, Niigata, Niigata 9503198, Japan								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500013	40	Article; Article		
J	Molnar, Szabolcs; Hunya, Zsolt; Gaspar, Krisztian; Szerb, Imre; Szabo, Noe; Mensch, Karoly; Korosi, Eva; Bacskai, Katalin; Santha, akos Kalman; Janka, Eszter Anna; Shadgan, Babak								Moderate and Severe Injuries at Five International Olympic-Style Wrestling Tournaments during 2016-2019								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			74	81		10.52082/jssm.2022.74			MAR 2022	2022	As a contact sport, wrestling may result in injuries. Based on the severity, they are classified as mild, moderate, severe and critical. All injuries occurring at international competitions are documented in a cloud-based surveillance system. The purpose of this study was to analyze the incidence and characteristics of moderate and severe (including critical) wrestling injuries that occurred during five international Olympic-style wrestling competitions in 2016-2019. Three Wrestling World Championships and two European Wrestling tournaments were organized by the Hungarian Wrestling Federation in 2016-2019. A total of 2483 wrestlers in three Olympic wrestling styles have competed in 3007 matches. Data from all injuries were recorded and analyzed to define rates, locations, types and severity, and to compare with previous reports. A total of 53 wrestlers sustained 55 injuries, which is equivalent to an overall injury incidence rate of 9.1%0 (9.1/1000 athletic exposures). Greco-Roman and Women Wrestling had the same injury incidence rate, while Freestyle had a lower one (9.5%0 versus 8.5%0). The injury proportion by regions and anatomic locations were on head and face 29.1%, spine and trunk 16.4 % and the upper-and-lower extremity injuries equally 27.3%. The most common types of injuries included ligament lesions, joint injuries, skin lacerations, and contusions. Five wrestlers (0.8%0) sustained strangulation or concussion. Wrestling injury rates during United World Wrestling competitions are not high, but when happen they can be serious. Despite relatively low incidence rate of injuries, there is a need for continuous education for medical teams, referees and coaches to avoid wrestling injuries.		[Molnar, Szabolcs] Med Ctr Hungarian Def Forces, Dept Traumatol, Budapest Robert Karoly Krt 44, H-1134 Budapest, Hungary; [Molnar, Szabolcs; Santha, akos Kalman] Univ Phys Educ, Budapest, Hungary; [Molnar, Szabolcs; Shadgan, Babak] Med Prevent & Anti Doping Commiss United World Wr, Corsier Sur Vevey, Switzerland; [Hunya, Zsolt] Univ Debrecen, Dept Orthoped, Debrecen, Hungary; [Gaspar, Krisztian; Janka, Eszter Anna] Univ Debrecen, Dept Dermatol, Debrecen, Hungary; [Szerb, Imre] Semmelweis Univ, Dept Traumatol, Budapest, Hungary; [Szerb, Imre] Uzsoki Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Budapest, Hungary; [Szabo, Noe] Semmelweis Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Mensch, Karoly] Semmelweis Univ, Dept Oral Diagnost, Fac Dent, Budapest, Hungary; [Korosi, Eva] Dietitian & WADA Coordinator Hungarian Wrestling, Budapest, Hungary; [Bacskai, Katalin] Natl Inst Sports Med, Budapest, Hungary; [Santha, akos Kalman] Profess Med Serv & Assistance Ltd, Budapest, Hungary; [Shadgan, Babak] Univ British Columbia, Dept Orthopaed, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Molnar, Szabolcs] Med Ctr Hungarian Def Forces, Dept Traumatol, Budapest Robert Karoly Krt 44, H-1134 Budapest, Hungary								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500009	40	Article; Article		
J	Huang, Jyh-How; Lin, Chung-, I; Liao, Chih-Yang; Hsieh, Meng-Hung; Lin, Han-Szu; Chang, Chen-Kang								Intermittent Cooling Reduces Perceived Exertion but Has No Effect on Baseball Hitting or Defense Performance in a Hot Environment								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	1			137	144		10.52082/jssm.2022.137			MAR 2022	2022	Hot environments can impair the complex cognitive functions that are crucial to baseball hitting and defense. This study investigated the effects of intermittent forehead and neck cooling on the hitting and reactive agility of baseball players in hot environments. Ten male collegiate baseball players played 7-inning intrasquad games in a hot environment (31.1 degrees C -33.4 degrees C), completing one cooling and one control trial in a randomized crossover design. In the cooling trial, the participants placed ice-cold towels on their forehead and neck for 3 min during offensive half innings. Hitting and reactive agility tests, a go/no-go task, and the Stroop Color and Word Test were administered before and after each game. The games in the hot environment significantly increased rectal temperatures to the same level in the control (38.15 degrees C +/- 0.31 degrees C, p < 0.001) and cooling (38.08 degrees C +/- 0.24 degrees C, p < 0.001) trials. Intermittent cooling significantly reduced forehead and tympanic temperatures, perceived exertion, and thermal sensation during the game. Swing power significantly increased after the game, but the exit velocity of batted balls did not significantly differ in both trials. Reactive agility was significantly impaired after the game in the control trial (before: 0.367 +/- 0.109 s, after: 0.491 +/- 0.212 s, p = 0.008) but displayed a trend of decrease in the cooling trial (before: 0.390 +/- 0.183 s, after: 0.518 +/- 0.282 s, p = 0.066). The game and cooling intervention had no significant effects on the reaction time or error rate in the go/no-go task and Stroop Color and Word Test. The results showed that intermittent cooling during a baseball game in a hot environment reduces perceived exertion and thermal sensation but has no significant effect on hitting, defense performance, or cognitive function.		[Huang, Jyh-How] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Dept Sport Informat & Commun, Taichung, Taiwan; [Lin, Chung-, I] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Dept Ball Sport, Taichung, Taiwan; [Liao, Chih-Yang; Hsieh, Meng-Hung] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Dept Sport Performance, Taichung, Taiwan; [Lin, Han-Szu] Chinese Culture Univ, Grad Inst Sport Coaching Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chang, Chen-Kang] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Dept Sport Performance, Taichung, Taiwan; [Chang, Chen-Kang] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, 16,Sec 1,Shaun Shih Rd, Taichung 404, Taiwan								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000760170500017	44	Article; Article		
J	Gillbanks, Lucy; Mountjoy, Margo; Filbay, Stephanie R.								Insufficient knowledge and inapproriate physiotherapy management of Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) in lightweight rowers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				54				8	15		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.12.002			MAR 2022	2022	Objective: To investigate the knowledge and management of Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S), from the perspective of lightweight rowers and physiotherapists. Design: Semi-structured individual qualitative interviews. Methods: Physiotherapists who had worked with lightweight rowers, and current and former lightweight rowers (who had experienced at least one symptom of RED-S), undertook audio-recorded semi structured telephone interviews. An inductive thematic analysis was performed, facilitated by NVivo software. Results: Twelve physiotherapists (n = 6 females, 1-20 years of experience managing lightweight rowers) and twelve lightweight rowers (n = 8 females, 1-8 years lightweight rowing experience, intermediate to elite/international level) were interviewed. Five key themes were identified: insufficient knowledge of RED-S, inadequate RED-S education, inappropriate management of RED-S, referral to other health professionals, prioritising performance over health. Participants provided suggestions for improving knowledge and management of RED-S in lightweight rowers, including formal physiotherapy education and training, and targeted education for athletes and coaches. Conclusions: There was a significant lack of awareness of RED-S amongst physiotherapists and lightweight rowers. Most physiotherapists were not confident discussing or managing RED-S in athletes, and lightweight rowers were dissatisfied with the management they received. Improving RED-S education for physiotherapists and athletes may have important health implications for lightweight rowers.		[Gillbanks, Lucy; Filbay, Stephanie R.] Univ Oxford, Nuffield Dept Orthopaed Rheumatol & Musculoskelet, Oxford, England; [Mountjoy, Margo] McMaster Univ, Dept Family Med, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Mountjoy, Margo] Int Olymp Comm IOC Games Grp, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Filbay, Stephanie R.] Univ Melbourne, Ctr Hlth Exercise & Sports Med, Dept Physiotherapy, Alan Gilbert Bldg, Melbourne, Vic 3010, Australia; [Filbay, Stephanie R.] Univ Melbourne, Ctr Hlth Exercise & Sports Med, Dept Physiotherapy, Alan Gilbert Bldg, Melbourne, Vic 3010, Australia								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000763559900002	13	Article; Article		
J	Fares, Mohamad Y.; Stewart, Katy; McBride, Michael; Maclean, John								Lower limb injuries in an english professional football club: injury analysis and recommendations for prevention								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	3			260	268		10.1080/00913847.2022.2045176			MAY 4 2023	2023	Background Lower limb injuries constitute a problem in the sport of football. Our aim is to explore patterns and trends of lower limb injuries in an English professional football club. Methods This is a descriptive epidemiological study. Reports provided by the club's physical therapy team were screened for injuries among professional football players sustained over four seasons, from 2015/2016 to 2018/2019. Data included setting of injury (in-match or training), anatomical location of injury, type of injury, number of days off and month of injury. Results A total of 296 lower limb injuries were recorded in our study, with a rate of 11.14 per 1000 football hours. Injury rate during games was 51.38 per 1000 football hours, significantly greater than that during training at 3.81 per 1000 football hours (p = 0.021). The thigh was significantly the most commonly injured location at 4.67 per 1000 football hours (p < 0.001). Grade I tears were the most common injury type at 1.73 per 1000 football hours, significantly greater than grade III tears (p = 0.027), contusions (p = 0.043), fractures (p = 0.02), and lacerations (p = 0.019). Injury rates were found to be greatest during preseason and declined as season progressed. On average, an injury sidelined the affected footballer for a total of 20 days. Conclusion Lower limb injuries were more common during matches than training. The thigh is the most common injury location, and grade I muscle tear was the most common type of injury. Injury rates were higher early on in the season. Potential prevention strategies include spacing out competition, adopting training and exercise regimens that cater for recovery, and increasing research regarding injury mechanisms.		[Fares, Mohamad Y.; Stewart, Katy; Maclean, John] Univ Glasgow, Coll Med Vet & Life Sci, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Stewart, Katy; McBride, Michael; Maclean, John] Hampden Sports Clin, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Maclean, John] Univ Glasgow, Inst Cardiovasc & Med Sci, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Fares, Mohamad Y.] Univ Glasgow, Coll Med Vet & Life Sci, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000762671600001	57	Article; Article		
J	Dobscha, Madison; Peterson, Connie; Powers, William Scott; Goetschius, John								Youth sport specialization associated with poorer lower extremity function & pain as young adults								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	3			254	259		10.1080/00913847.2022.2042167			MAY 4 2023	2023	Objective Examine the link between youth sports specialization and long-term lower extremity joint health after sports by comparing lower extremity function, pain, and history of sport-related injuries between young adults that were highly, moderately, and low specialized in youth sports. Methods We used a cross-sectional design, and all data was collected using an electronic survey. Our sample included N = 356 young adults who participated in a primary sport during youth and high school sports but were no longer participating in that sport as a young adult. Participants were stratified into high (n = 111), moderate (n = 119), and low (n = 126) specialization groups using a 3-criteria sport specialization questionnaire based on youth sports participation prior to high school. We compared participants current Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS) score (0-80), the proportion of participants with clinically important deficits in LEFS score (<= 71/80), current lower extremity (foot/ankle, knee, hip) pain scores (0-10), and history of lower extremity (foot/ankle, knee, hip) injuries between the high, moderate, and low specialization groups. Results The high specialization group reported significantly lower overall LEFS scores, and a greater proportion (40%) reported clinically important deficits in LEFS scores compared to the low specialization group (20%). The high specialization group also reported greater foot/ankle and knee pain and a greater proportion of sport-related knee injuries than the low specialization group (49% vs 25%). Conclusions Our findings suggest that even after discontinuing sports, young adults who were highly specialized in youth sports before high school reported clinically important deficits in lower extremity function, greater foot/ankle and knee pain, and a greater history of knee injuries than young adults who were not specialized in youth sports, suggesting a possible link between youth sports specialization and long-term lower extremity health after sports.		[Dobscha, Madison; Peterson, Connie; Goetschius, John] James Madison Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Harrisonburg, VA USA; [Powers, William Scott] Sentara RMH Orthoped Ctr, Harrisonburg, VA USA; [Goetschius, John] Hlth & Behav Studies Bldg,235 Martin Luther King, Harrisonburg, VA 22807 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000761107000001	22	Article; Article		
J	Lin, Yi-Jia; Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang; Liu, Tsung-Han; Lee, Yung-Hsiang; Lee, Shih-Chi; Hsu, Wei-Chun; Chang, Chao-Chin								Do harder midsoles facilitate propulsion and do softer midsoles increase shock attenuation during taking-off and landing of scissor jump?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2039275				2022	To determine the influence of midsole hardness on ground reaction force (GRF) features during badminton scissor jump takeoff and landing and the interactive effect of midsole hardness with playing and nonplaying limbs, data were collected from badminton athletes who performed scissor jumps while wearing shoes with two levels of midsole hardness. Temporal-spatial and GRF variables were calculated. Measurements of the soft and hard midsole conditions for playing versus non-playing sides were compared using two-way repeated measure analyses of variance. The playing and non-playing limbs showed different GRF features while performing scissor jump. During takeoff, no significant differences between the soft and hard midsole conditions were identified for the jump height in any of the GRF variables. During landing, the cushioning capacity might be affected by harder midsole indicated by higher vertical impact peak (p = 0.008). Meanwhile, the longer time-to-vertical impact peak (p = 0.007) and the lower loading rate of the vertical impact peak (p = 0.013) may be plausible indicators for cushioning. Current study indicated the playing-limb consistently showed dominance on both the propulsion and shock attenuation behaviours during scissor jump and that, for the footwear selection between 62C and 68C midsoles, expectation would be more on effects on landing characteristics than on propulsion performance.		[Lin, Yi-Jia; Lee, Shih-Chi; Hsu, Wei-Chun; Chang, Chao-Chin] Natl Taiwan Univ Sci & Technol, Grad Inst Biomed Engn, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lin, Yi-Jia; Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang; Hsu, Wei-Chun] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, Taipei, Taiwan; [Liu, Tsung-Han] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Liu, Tsung-Han] Victor Rackets Ind Corp, Div Shoe & Bag Business, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lee, Yung-Hsiang] Natl Taiwan Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Athlet, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hsu, Wei-Chun; Chang, Chao-Chin] Natl Taiwan Univ Sci & Technol, Grad Inst Appl Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hsu, Wei-Chun] Natl Def Med Ctr, Dept Biomed Engn, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hsu, Wei-Chun] Natl Taiwan Univ Sci & Technol, Grad Inst Biomed Engn, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hsu, Wei-Chun] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hsu, Wei-Chun] Natl Taiwan Univ Sci & Technol, Grad Inst Appl Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Hsu, Wei-Chun] Natl Def Med Ctr, Dept Biomed Engn, Taipei, Taiwan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000758065900001	43	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lempke, Alexandra F. DeJong; Hart, Joseph M.; Hryvniak, David J.; Rodu, Jordan S.; Hertel, Jay								Prospective running assessments among division I cross-country athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				37	45		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.02.003			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To prospectively monitor biomechanics, session-rating of perceived exertion (sRPE), and wellness in a cohort of collegiate Division-1 cross-country athletes over the course of a single competitive season. Design: Prospective cohort study. Methods: Healthy Division-1 cross-country athletes (9 males, 13 females) were prospectively followed over a single competitive cross-country season. Wearable sensors were used to collect biomechanics twice per week, along with surveys to assess sRPE and wellness. Mixed model linear regressions were used to assess the relationship among biomechanical measures to sRPE, and to wellness z-scores. Results: Stride length, contact time, impact g, pace, weekly mileage, and running a meet in the day prior to the recorded run explained 25.4% of the variance in sRPE scores across the season (R-2 = 0.254, p < 0.001). Contact time and braking g helped explain 3.7% of the variance in wellness (R-2 = 0.037, F= 5.70, p = 0.01). Conclusions: There were several identified associations between gait biomechanics and sRPE, yet minimal associations with wellness measures. These findings suggest there are movement adaptations associated with perceived running intensity, however biomechanical measures alone do not lend additional insight into wellness measures. (C) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Lempke, Alexandra F. DeJong] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Lempke, Alexandra F. DeJong; Hart, Joseph M.; Hertel, Jay] Univ Virginia, Sch Educ, Dept Kinesiol, Exercise & Sport Injury Lab, 210 Emmet St South, Charlottesville, VA 22904 USA; [Hryvniak, David J.] Univ Virginia Hlth Syst Outpatient Phys & Occupat, Fontaine Bldg 515,Fontaine Res Pk, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Rodu, Jordan S.] Univ Virginia, Coll Arts & Sci, Dept Stat, Halsey Hall 104,148 Amphitheater Way, Charlottesville, VA 22904 USA; [Lempke, Alexandra F. DeJong] 20 Hope Ave,Suite G01, Waltham, MA 02453 USA								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000005	37	Article; Article		
J	Vagenas, George								Uncertainty analysis for stride-time-derived modelling of lower limb stiffness: applying Taylor series expansion for error propagation on Monte- Carlo simulated data								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2021.2022185				2022	Knowledge of uncertainty is valuable mainly in correctly appraising measured effects. In lower limb stiffness, which affects injury risk and athletic performance, uncertainty is often related to vertical (K-vert) and leg (K-leg) stiffness. Imprecisions in measurements of body mass (M), leg length (L), contact (t(c)) and flight (t(f)) time propagate through the calculations, augment stiffness uncertainty and inflate relevant effects. This study estimated the limits of this uncertainty as probable (E-prob) and upper bound (E-upper) errors by applying Taylor series expansion on Monte-Carlo simulated data. E-prob and E-upper were 1285 +/- 221 N/m (3.9 +/- 0.2%) and 1441 +/- 248 N/m (4.4 +/- 0.3%) in K-vert, and 222 +/- 61 N/m (2.1 +/- 0.1%) and 375 +/- 109 N/m (3.6 +/- 0.3%) in K-leg, respectively. To avoid the complexities of full Taylor series expansion, E-prob was predicted (R-2 approximate to 1) more simply as 0.89E(upper) in K-vert and 11 + 0.56E(upper) in K-leg. These uncertainties reflect mostly errors in t(c) and t(f), and uncertainty in F-max, at kinematic sampling of 300 Hz and running at 4-5 m/s. With slower sampling or faster running these uncertainties rise, and their impact on similar lower limb stiffness effects could be substantial. Applying Taylor series expansion for error propagation on Monte-Carlo simulated data is valid for uncertainty analysis in any multivariable functional relationship.		[Vagenas, George] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Vagenas, George] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000755412700001	51	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Sperling, Noah; Vandegrift, Donald								Anthem Protests, Viewer Politics, and the Demand for NFL Games: Assessing the Impact of National Anthem Protests on Viewership								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	8			1017	1045	15270025221078009	10.1177/15270025221078009			DEC 2022	2022	This paper analyzes the effect of anthem protests on viewership for National Football League (NFL) games controlling for measures of NFL market-specific political beliefs and other demand determinants. To capture the effect of the protests on viewership, we create two classes of protests (unambiguous and ambiguous protests) and support the classification based on the meaning of the protest, actions by NFL owners, and statements by Donald Trump. Using data from all early and late-afternoon Sunday games from the 2014 through 2017 regular NFL seasons, we show that: (1) unambiguous protests reduce viewership in the week following the protests by about 15% while ambiguous protests do not generally produce statistically significant reductions in viewership; (2) the negative effect of unambiguous protests on viewership is particularly strong in metro locations that voted more heavily for Donald Trump in 2016; and (3) following Donald Trump's statements in week 3 of the 2017 season, both ambiguous and unambiguous protests increased and the increase in ambiguous protests was particularly large.		[Sperling, Noah; Vandegrift, Donald] Coll New Jersey, Sch Business, Dept Econ, 2000 Pennington Rd, Ewing, NJ 08628 USA; [Vandegrift, Donald] Coll New Jersey, Sch Business, Dept Econ, 2000 Pennington Rd, Ewing, NJ 08628 USA								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000759675400001	33	Article; Article		
J	Nielsen, Mathias F.; Thorborg, Kristian; Krommes, Kasper; Thornton, Kasper B.; Holmich, Per; Penalver, Juan J. J.; Ishoi, Lasse								Hip adduction strength and provoked groin pain: A comparison of long-lever squeeze testing using the ForceFrame and the Copenhagen 5-Second-Squeeze test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				28	36		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.02.002			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To compare long-lever squeeze testing using the ForceFrame and the Copenhagen 5-SecondSqueeze test (5SST) for assessment of hip adduction strength and provoked groin pain in elite male soccer players. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Pre-season testing at facilities of a Danish professional 1st tier soccer club and academy. Participants: Elite male soccer players (n = 83, mean age; 16 +/- 2.7 years) from U13, U14, U15, U17, U19 and senior teams cleared for full training and match participation. Results: Hip adduction strength was 16% lower in the ForceFrame. A Bland-Altman plot showed a systematic bias (-0.47 Nm/kg, 95% CI [-0.57; -0.38]) and lack of agreement (95% limits of agreement: -1.31; 0.39 Nm/kg). In the ForceFrame, provoked groin pain was less intense (median NRS 0 [IQR: 0-1] vs. 555T: 1 [IQR: 0-3], p < 0.001) and reported by fewer players (NRS >0) (27% [n = 22] vs. 555T: 61.4% [n = 51], p < 0.001). Conclusions: The ForceFrame and the 5SST lack agreement and are not interchangeable methods. This may have implications when selecting a method for screening and detecting early groin problems in male soccer players. (C) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Nielsen, Mathias F.; Thorborg, Kristian; Krommes, Kasper; Holmich, Per; Ishoi, Lasse] Copenhagen Univ Hosp Amager & Hvidovre, Dept Orthoped Surg, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Hvidovre, Denmark; [Thornton, Kasper B.; Penalver, Juan J. J.; Ishoi, Lasse] FC Nordsjaelland AS, Dept Human Performance, Right Dream Grp, Farum, Denmark; [Nielsen, Mathias F.] Kettegaard Alle 30, DK-2650 Hvidovre, Denmark								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000004	40	Article; Article		
J	Yeung, Phillip; Phulka, Jobanjit; Morrison, Barbara; Moulson, Nathaniel; McKinney, James								Automated external defibrillator and emergency action plan preparedness amongst masters athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	3			240	246		10.1080/00913847.2022.2036079			MAY 4 2023	2023	Objectives Sudden cardiac arrest/death (SCA/D) is the leading medical cause of death in athletes. Masters athletes (>= 35 years old) are increasing in numbers and are responsible for the vast majority of sport-related SCDs. Automated external defibrillators (AEDs) and emergency action plans (EAPs) have been shown to unequivocally reduce SCD, however, their prevalence in masters athletics remains unknown. We sought to identify the perceived AED accessibility and EAP preparedness amongst a group of masters athletes. Methods A 40-item survey was sent to 735 master athletes identified through the Masters Athlete Screening Study. Participants were athletes with no known significant cardiac history. The survey inquired on the availability and location of AEDs within exercise settings, the presence of EAPs, and participants' cardiac concerns. Results Sixty-eight percent of athletes completed the survey. Ninety-seven percent and 99% of athletes believed CPR and AEDs were effective at saving lives, respectively. Thirty-eight percent of athletes were aware of an AED in proximity to where they exercise, with 40% aware of one available during competition events, and 28% during training events. Only 10% of athletes were aware of an EAP active in their place of exercise. Half of the athletes perceive their risk of cardiac arrest during exercise to be <= 0.5 in 100,000. Conclusions These findings indicate that nearly all athletes believe CPR and AED are effective at saving lives, but only a minority are aware of an AED near their place of exercise, with even fewer aware of an active EAP. Master athletes underestimate their own risk for exercise-related cardiac events, affirming the importance of educating masters athletes on their increased cardiac risk and the importance of EAPs.		[Yeung, Phillip; Phulka, Jobanjit] Univ British Columbia, Fac Med, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Morrison, Barbara] Trinity Western Univ, Human Kinet, Langley, BC, Canada; [Moulson, Nathaniel; McKinney, James] Univ British Columbia, Div Cardiol, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [McKinney, James] Univ British Columbia, SportsCardiologyBC, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Yeung, Phillip] Univ British Columbia, Fac Med, Vancouver, BC, Canada								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000754097600001	23	Article; Article		
J	Brazalovich, Philip; Simon, Janet E.; Criss, Cody R.; Yom, Jae P.; Grooms, Dustin R.								The effects of virtual reality immersion on drop landing mechanics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2035427				2022	Virtual reality (VR) can be used to alter the environment and challenge sensory calibration which rehabilitation and return-to-sport testing lack. The purpose was to establish how VR manipulation of the environment changes knee landing biomechanics. Twenty-nine healthy active adults (22 males; 20.52 +/- 1.21 years; 1.75 +/- 0.09 m; 78.34 +/- 14.33 kg) were recruited. Three drop landing trials (31 cm height box) were performed for three conditions: eyes-open (EO), eyes-closed (EC), and VR, consisting of a head-mounted display of a 360 degrees photo of a steep man-made edge or drop. Knee kinematics and kinetics were evaluated using 3D motion capture. The VR condition significantly increased Landing Error Score System errors relative to EO (1.28 +/- 0.20, p < 0.001) and EC (0.98 +/- 0.22, p < 0.001) and increased vertical ground reaction force relative to EO (0.41 +/- 0.09 N center dot bw(-1), p < 0.001) and EC (0.34 +/- 0.07 N center dot bw(-1), p < 0.001). The VR condition had less knee flexion at initial contact compared to EO (4.39 +/- 0.75 degrees, p = 0.001) and EC (1.83 +/- 0.63 degrees, p = 0.021). The VR condition had more knee abduction at initial contact compared to EO (0.71 +/- 0.24 degrees, p = 0.002) and EC (0.69 +/- 0.22 degrees, p = 0.002) and increased knee abduction at maximum flexion compared to EO (2.01 +/- 0.58 degrees, p = 0.026). Landing in VR increased injury risk landing biomechanics, indicating that VR may option to incorporate into return-to-play or injury risk assessment.		[Brazalovich, Philip; Simon, Janet E.; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Coll Hlth Sci & Profess, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Simon, Janet E.; Criss, Cody R.; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Ohio Musculoskeletal & Neurol Inst, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Yom, Jae P.] Univ Illinois, Dept Allied Hlth, Springfield, IL 62703 USA; [Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Coll Hlth Sci & Profess, Sch Rehabil & Commun Sci, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Simon, Janet E.] Ohio Univ, Coll Hlth Sci & Profess, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Simon, Janet E.] Ohio Univ, Ohio Musculoskeletal & Neurol Inst, Athens, OH 45701 USA								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000753740700001	59	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Evans, Stuart A.; James, Daniel A.; Rowlands, David; Lee, James B.								Impact of Centre-of-Mass Acceleration on Perceived Exertion, the Metabolic Equivalent and Heart Rate Reserve in Triathlete Spin Cycling: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			41	51		10.2478/hukin-2022-0004			FEB 10 2022	2022	Indoor spin cycling has gained popularity as a training modality for triathletes. Part of its appeal is that it can form a component of a structured periodised training program and provide an alternative to outdoor cycling. Indices of physiological components (i.e., the metabolic equivalent, caloric cost, perceived exertion) and changes in the body position can be inferred by wearable technology such as an accelerometer. This pilot study aimed to investigate the relationship between the rating of perceived exertion, heart rate reserve, and the metabolic equivalent between the whole body centre of mass acceleration using a sacrum mounted triaxial accelerometer during 20 minutes of 6 varied power conditions of indoor spin cycling. Compared with other conditions, cycling at a steady state (>152-205 W) resulted in extremely large effects (> 0.9) in mediolateral acceleration and the rating of perceived exertion (p < 0.0001). The relationship between the body position (aerodynamic to drops) induced significant changes in anteroposterior acceleration magnitude (p < 0.0001), although moving from drops to the aerodynamic position was not significant despite a large increase in heart rate reserve and extremely large effects of perceived exertion. The rating of perceived exertion scale and the metabolic equivalent comparative to the whole body centre of mass acceleration magnitude and power displayed a strong correlation (r = 0.865). An individually determined whole body centre of mass accelerations combined with perceived exertion, the metabolic equivalent and heart rate reserve could potentially contribute to improved indoor triathlete spin cycling performance.		[Evans, Stuart A.; James, Daniel A.; Lee, James B.] Charles Darwin Univ, Coll Hlth & Human Sci, SABEL Labs, Darwin, NT 0810, Australia; [Rowlands, David] Griffith Univ, Sch Engn, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Evans, Stuart A.] Charles Darwin Univ, Coll Hlth & Human Sci, SABEL Labs, Darwin, NT 0810, Australia								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700004	36	Article; Article		
J	Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel A.; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas; Gonzalez-Ponce, Inmaculada; Cantu-Berrueto, Abril; Parma-Aragon, Mladosich; Moncada-Jimenez, Jose; Salicetti-Fonseca, Alejandro; Tassi, Juan M.; Leo, Francisco M.								Are Teams whose Players are More Committed to the Team More Resilient? The Role of Intra-Group Conflict								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			233	242		10.2478/hukin-2022-0018			FEB 10 2022	2022	The study aimed to analyze the relationship between commitment to the team and team resilience factors (characteristics of resilience and vulnerability under pressure), and to examine whether the task and social intra-group conflict act as mediators between commitment to the team and team resilience factors. One hundred seventy (170) male soccer players (16-38 years; M = 18.35; SD = 4.72) of the national teams of Argentina, Costa Rica, and Mexico participated in the study. The path analytic model was used to test mediating pathways. First, the results revealed that commitment to the team was positively related to characteristics of resilience and negatively to vulnerability under pressure. Second, bootstrap mediation analysis showed that athletes' perceptions of the task and social intra-group conflict mediated the association between their perception of commitment to the team and team resilience factors. Findings provide initial evidence for a link between commitment to the team and team resilience in national teams and also suggest that intra-group conflict can improve the association between commitment to the team and team resilience. Therefore, the main conclusion of this study is that practioners should promote players' commitment to the team and avoid intra-group conflicts within teams to have a resilient team that copes with problems more easily.		[Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel A.; Tassi, Juan M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Gonzalez-Ponce, Inmaculada] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ, Badajoz, Spain; [Cantu-Berrueto, Abril; Parma-Aragon, Mladosich] Mexican Soccer Federat, San Mateo Otzacatipan, Mexico; [Moncada-Jimenez, Jose; Salicetti-Fonseca, Alejandro] Univ Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica; [Leo, Francisco M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Teacher Training, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Leo, Francisco M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Teacher Training, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700020	41	Article; Article		
J	Chiu, Yi-Wen; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Bezerra, Pedro; Pagaduan, Jeffrey Cayaban; Chen, Yung-Sheng								Day-to-day Variation of the Heart Rate, Heart Rate Variability, and Energy Expenditure during FIFA 11+and Dynamic Warm-up Exercises								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			73	84		10.2478/hukin-2022-0007			FEB 10 2022	2022	There seems to be a scarcity in literature investigating day-to-day warm-up (WU) variations. We investigated day-to-day variation of psychophysiological responses during Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) 11(+) and dynamic warm-up (DWU) exercises. Twenty-one male collegiate soccer players were randomly assigned to the FIFA 11(+) (n = 10) or DWU group (n = 11). Each group performed the assigned WU protocol on three different occasions with a 48-h interval in between. The inter-day variation of the heart rate (HR), time distribution of HR zones, heart rate variability (HRV), estimated energy expenditure (EE), blood lactate (BL) concentration, and the Borg rating of perceived exertion (RPE) were recorded. A two-way repeated measures of analysis of variance was used to compare the differences in chosen variables [group (2) x day (3)]. The coefficient of variation was used to determine the dispersion of the variables over the sessions. The interclass correlation coefficient (ICC) with a two-way random model and a single measure (ICC2,1) was used to determine inter-day reliability. There were no significant differences in time spent at particular HR zones and EE in both groups. The FIFA 11(+) exercises showed high reliability of exercise duration, average HR (HRaverage), minimal HR (HRmin), peak HR (HRpeak), and post-exercise RPE. In the DWU group, high reliability was found only in HRaverage, HRpeak, and post-exercise RPE. The FIFA 11(+) exercises showed similar EE, exercise HR patterns, BL, and RPE compared to the DWU. The FIFA 11(+) program is an intense WU protocol with a characteristically low variation of day-to-day exercise HR and RPE responses.		[Chiu, Yi-Wen] Fu Jen Catholic Univ, Dept Phys Educ, New Taipei 24206, Taiwan; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Bezerra, Pedro] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Rua Escola Ind & Comercial Nun Alvares, P-4900347 Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Telecomunicacoes, P-1049001 Lisbon, Portugal; [Bezerra, Pedro] Res Ctr Sports Performance Recreat Innovat & Tech, P-4960320 Melgaco, Portugal; [Pagaduan, Jeffrey Cayaban] Univ Tasmania, Coll Hlth & Med, Sch Hlth Sci, Launceston, Tas 7250, Australia; [Chen, Yung-Sheng] Univ Taipei, Dept Exercise & Hlth Sci, 101,Sec 2,Jhongcheng Rd, Taipei 11153, Taiwan; [Chen, Yung-Sheng] Exercise & Hlth Promot Assoc, New Taipei 24156, Taiwan; [Chen, Yung-Sheng] Univ Taipei, Dept Exercise & Hlth Sci, 101,Sec 2,Jhongcheng Rd, Taipei 11153, Taiwan								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700007	28	Article; Article		
J	Yu, Jiangchuan; Gao, Peng								Interactive Three-Phase Structure for Table Tennis Performance Analysis: Application to Elite Men's Singles Matches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			177	188		10.2478/hukin-2022-0015			FEB 10 2022	2022	The aim of the current study was twofold: (a) to construct an Interactive Three-Phase Structure for table tennis performance analysis and (b) to apply the proposed structure to the performance analysis of elite men's singles matches. The current structure makes improvements over the former ones in the following aspects: more comprehensive performance variables consisting of bilateral actions covering the whole rally competing process, a better phase division method fitting to the real match situation and more focused analysis achieved by the designed critical phase. The analysis of 56 elite men's singles matches (5507 rallies) was conducted using the proposed structure. The results demonstrated that performance variables of the rally competing process ceasing in Phase 2 (initial attack and counterattack phase) were decisive for the rally outcome of elite men's singles matches. The proposed structure provides practitioners with a better model to enhance the effectiveness of table tennis performance analysis.		[Yu, Jiangchuan] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Gao, Peng] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yu, Jiangchuan] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yu, Jiangchuan] Beijing Sport Univ, Sports Coaching Coll, Table Tennis Teaching & Researching Sect, 48 Xinxi Rd, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700015	25	Article; Article		
J	Rintaugu, Elijah; Mwangi, Francis; Andanje, Nancy; Tian, Xiaojie; Fuku, Noriyuki; Kidokoro, Tetsuhiro								Mental Toughness Characteristics of Male University Athletes in Relation to Contextual Factors								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			243	251		10.2478/hukin-2022-0019			FEB 10 2022	2022	Mental toughness is a psychological construct related to successful performance in academics, management, and sports among other sectors. However, studies on the determinants of mental toughness with respect to different human endeavours have remained inconclusive. This study explored mental toughness characteristics of male university athletes in selected sports in relation to contextual factors of athletes' age, playing experience, year of study, and the type of sport. The Mental Toughness Questionnaire (MTQ48) was used to collect data from male university athletes (n = 140). Results of this study showed significant difference in the following components of MT: lower scores in challenge (p = .015), emotional control (p = .005), and life control (p = .002) among athletes with shorter playing experience, and higher scores in life control (p < .001), emotional control (p = .021), and confidence in abilities (p = .009) in handball as compared to soccer players. Soccer players had significantly higher scores in the challenge component (p = .038) of mental toughness as compared to handball players. It was concluded that playing experience and the type of sport influenced characteristics of mental toughness among university athletes. Coaches, trainers, and sports psychologists need to consider these contextual factors to optimize mental toughness of athletes. Future studies should explore how specific contextual factors influence training environments and outcomes, as well as how stakeholders can leverage on the relationships between playing experience, the type of sport and mental toughness to augment athletes' mental toughness and sports performance.		[Rintaugu, Elijah] Kenyatta Univ, Dept Recreat & Sports Management, POB 43844-00100, Nairobi, Kenya; [Mwangi, Francis; Andanje, Nancy] Kenyatta Univ, Dept Phys Educ Exercise & Sports Sci, POB 43844-00100, Nairobi, Kenya; [Tian, Xiaojie] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058574, Japan; [Fuku, Noriyuki] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, 1-1 Hiraka Gakuendai, Inzai, Chiba 2701695, Japan; [Kidokoro, Tetsuhiro] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Setagaya Ku, 7-1-1 Fukasawa, Tokyo 1588508, Japan; [Rintaugu, Elijah] Kenyatta Univ, Dept Recreat & Sports Management, POB 43844-00100, Nairobi, Kenya								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700021	30	Article; Article		
J	Ribeiro, Lucas de Castro; Fonseca, Fabiano de Souza; Teixeira Costa, Gustavo De Conti; Castro, Henrique de Oliveira; Victor da Silva Santos, Joao Paulo; Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi								Did the Absence of Crowd Support During the Covid-19 Pandemic Affect the Home Advantage in Brazilian Elite Soccer?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			251	258		10.2478/hukin-2022-0047			FEB 10 2022	2022	This study aimed to investigate the impact of crowd absence due to the COVID-19 pandemic on home advantage in Series A and B of professional Brazilian male soccer. Moreover, we sought to compare the home advantage between different competitive levels. Data from 2018 to 2020 Brazilian professional soccer championships (Series A and B) were analyzed, consisting of 2280 matches. The effect of home advantage was calculated in relation to the number of points won, the number of wins, goals scored and goals conceded. Our results indicated that home advantage was reduced in Serie A. Specifically, the 2020 (absence of the crowd) and 2019 seasons showed smaller home advantage compared to the 2018 season. On the other hand, Serie B analyses indicated no changes in home advantage over the seasons analyzed. The comparison of home advantage between competitive levels indicated higher home advantage in Serie A, exclusively in the 2018 season. In addition to the absence of fans, other changes occurred in elite sports due to the pandemic, such as changes in rules and the calendar. Considering that home advantage is affected by multiple interacting factors, it is important to investigate specific sports leagues across the world to determine which factors had the greatest impact on the advantage of playing home matches.		[Ribeiro, Lucas de Castro; Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Av Pres Antonio Carlos 6627, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Figueiredo, Lucas Savassi] Aeronaut Instruct & Adaptat Ctr, Lagoa Santa, MG, Brazil; [Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Cuiba, MT, Brazil; [Teixeira Costa, Gustavo De Conti] Univ Fed Goias, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Fonseca, Fabiano de Souza] Univ Fed Rural Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Victor da Silva Santos, Joao Paulo] Brazilian Inst Management & Mkt, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Ribeiro, Lucas de Castro] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Av Pres Antonio Carlos 6627, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700022	27	Article; Article		
J	Zwierzchowska, Anna; Gawel, Eliza; Celebanska, Diana; Mostowik, Aleksandra; Krzysztofik, Michal								The Impact of Internal Compensatory Mechanisms on Musculoskeletal Pain in Elite Polish Sitting Volleyball Players - A Preliminary Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			277	288		10.2478/hukin-2022-0023			FEB 10 2022	2022	The purpose of the study was to evaluate the impact of (1) maximal muscular strength of the upper body and (2) fat mass on musculoskeletal pain and sagittal spinal curvature deviations in elite Polish sitting volleyball players. The study examined twelve players (age = 35.4 +/- 6.9 years). The assessments were performed based on objective (anthropometric examinations, Medi Mouse, 1RM test) and subjective (NMQ = 7) measurements. All statistical analyses were performed using the SPSS. The lower back, the upper back and the neck were the most frequent painful areas. Statistical analyses showed a significant relationship between lumbar lordosis (LL) sagittal standing extension (r = 0.62; p = 0.03) and thoracic kyphosis (TK) sagittal standing flexion (r = -0.63; p = 0.28) with the 1RM. Furthermore, correlations between a body adiposity index and TK sagittal standing flexion and extension (r = -0.65; p = 0.05, r = - 0.58; p = 0.0.05) as well as LL sagittal standing flexion (r = 0.61; p = 0.05) were found. The body mass index correlated with wrist pain, whereas a very high relationship was found between pain in the wrists and knee joints. Neck pain positively correlated with TK and LL sagittal standing. Low back pain correlated with LL sagittal standing flexion and TK sagittal standing extension. Fat mass impacts the depth of anteroposterior spinal curvatures, what may cause pain in the neck and the lower back. The 1 RM bench press may influence the prevalence and location of musculoskeletal pain, whereas its values might be predicted by the depth of TK. A lower 1RM in the bench press may impact sagittal spinal curvature deviations. Deepen TK and LL significantly contribute to the prevalence of the neck pain.		[Zwierzchowska, Anna; Gawel, Eliza; Celebanska, Diana; Mostowik, Aleksandra; Krzysztofik, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72A, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Gawel, Eliza] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72A, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700025	30	Article; Article		
J	Mendes, Bruno; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Calvete, Francisco; Carrico, Sandro; Owen, Adam								Seasonal Training Load Monitoring Among Elite Level Soccer Players: Perceived Exertion and Creatine Kinase Variations Between Microcycles								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			85	95		10.2478/hukin-2022-0008			FEB 10 2022	2022	The primary aim of the investigation was to determine the daily load variations between the microcycles of an entire season of an elite group of professional soccer players. The second aim of this study was to determine the relationships between Foster's rating of perceived exertion (RPE), the Hooper index (HI) and CK levels over the weekly microcycles of the season. Thirty-five male professional soccer players participated in this study (3 goalkeepers, 6 wide defenders, 4 central defenders, 9 midfielders, 8 wide midfielders and 4 forwards) (25.7 +/- 5.0 years, 182.3 +/- 6.4 cm; 79.1 +/- 7.0 kg). Significant differences between months in the variables of HI (p = 0.001; ES = 0.052), minT (p = 0.001; ES = 0.066), IL (p = 0.001; ES = 0.052, minimum effect) and CK (p = 0.002; ES = 0.031) were found. Comparison of the HI (p = 0.044; ES = 0.002), minT (p = 0.001; ES = 0.045), and IL (p = 0.001; ES = 0.045) revealed significant differences between microcycles. No significant differences were found in CK (p = 0.710; ES = 0.001) across the period. A significantly higher internal training load and fatigue perception in microcycles with only one official match was found. The greater load occurred 3 to 4 days before the game. In addition, it can be concluded that the first quarter of the season seemed to induce a greater physical demand on elite professional players.		[Mendes, Bruno] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Telcomunicacoes, Covilha, Portugal; [Calvete, Francisco; Carrico, Sandro] Benfica LAB, Sport Lisboa & Benf, Lisbon, Portugal; [Owen, Adam] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Ctr Rech & Innovat Sport, Lyon, France; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Complexo Desport & Lazer Melgaco, P-4960320 Monte De Prado, Melgaco, Portugal								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700008	32	Article; Article		
J	Starczewski, Michal; Zmijewski, Piotr; Klusiewicz, Andrzej								Validity of Performance Assessment Methods in Elite Paracanoeists								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			269	276		10.2478/hukin-2021-0074			FEB 10 2022	2022	The problem of valid and reliable research methods in paralympic sports seems of great significance, thus the aim of this study was to evaluate the validity of the Wingate test (WAnT) in assessment of anaerobic performance in elite paracanoeists competing in 200 m races. Seven paralympic athletes (32.6 +/- 7.76 years), medal winners and finalists of the Paralympic Games, World and European Championships, as well as World Cups were examined. The evaluations were conducted during a competition which was held at the paralympic distance of 200 m, and included the WAnT for upper limbs and the anaerobic threshold test (ATT). Correlations of selected indices of mechanical work and power in the WAnT, as well as anaerobic threshold (AT) power, with the time recorded during the competition were used to determine indices which affected paracanoeing performance. The results indicated strong negative correlations with time achieved in the competition between peak power and total work in the WAnT, and AT power (R = -0.796 p = 0.032; R = -0.882 p = 0.009; R = -0.900 p < 0.001, respectively). The research confirmed the validity of the WAnT for the upper limbs to assess the performance level of paracanoeists. It may be concluded that the WAnT and ATT may be used for monitoring performance during the paralympic 200 m race.		[Starczewski, Michal] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, Warsaw, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr; Klusiewicz, Andrzej] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Marymoncka 34, PL-00809 Warsaw, Poland; [Klusiewicz, Andrzej] Fac Phys Educ & Hlth, Biala Podlaska, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Marymoncka 34, PL-00809 Warsaw, Poland								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700024	19	Article; Article		
J	Munoz-Lopez, Alejandro; Galiano, Carlos; Javier Nunez, Francisco; Floria, Pablo								The Flywheel Device Shaft Shape Determines Force and Velocity Profiles in the Half Squat Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			15	25		10.2478/hukin-2022-0002			FEB 10 2022	2022	Flywheel resistance training devices can be classified by their shaft shape. The objective of this study was to analyze whether using two flywheel resistance training devices shaft shapes can influence force and velocity production, regardless of the inertia used. Thirty-nine (n = 39) healthy active men participated in this study. They were randomized to perform 3 sets of 7 repetitions at maximal concentric voluntary execution, followed by a break in the last third of the eccentric phase in the half squat exercise. A progressive rotational inertial setting of 0.11, 0.22, and 0.33 kg center dot m(2) was used. Force- and velocity-time profiles were captured using two force plates and a synchronized linear encoder. Statistical parametric mapping was used to compare biomechanical output between the flywheel devices. The level of significance was set at p < 0.05. Force application was significantly higher in the horizontal cylinder-shaped device for the three moments of inertia used in the eccentric phase (p < 0.001). In the concentric phase, force application was significantly higher in the horizontal cylinder-shaped device in 0.11 (p < 0.001) and 0.22 kg center dot m(2) (p < 0.001). The resultant speed was higher in the vertical cone-shaped device in the concentric phase and the eccentric phase for the three moments of inertia (p < 0.001). In conclusion, the flywheel shaft type determines the mechanical output of the half squat exercise, regardless of the moment of inertia used. While a horizontal cylinder-shaped device is more suitable to achieve higher forces, especially in the eccentric phase, a vertical cone-shaped device can be used to achieve higher speeds during the execution of the exercise.		[Munoz-Lopez, Alejandro] Univ Seville, Dept Human Motr & Sports Performance, Seville, Spain; [Galiano, Carlos; Javier Nunez, Francisco; Floria, Pablo] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Munoz-Lopez, Alejandro] Univ Seville, Educ Sci Fac, Dept Motricidad Humana & Rendimiento Deport, C Pirotecnia S-N, Seville 41013, Spain								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700002	27	Article; Article		
J	Carzoli, Joseph P.; Sousa, Colby A.; Helms, Eric R.; Zourdos, Michael C.								Agreement Between Kinovea Video Analysis and the Open Barbell System for Resistance Training Movement Outcomes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			27	39		10.2478/hukin-2022-0003			FEB 10 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to examine the agreement between Kinovea video analysis software and the previously validated Open Barbell System (OBS) for assessing average concentric and eccentric velocity, eccentric duration, peak concentric velocity, height of peak concentric velocity, and concentric and eccentric range of motion. Sixteen resistance-trained males performed 11 repetitions at various intensities (between 60-100% of one-repetition maximum) on both the back squat and the bench press. For each repetition, all outcome measures were assessed with Kinovea and the OBS. Agreement between devices for each outcome measure was analyzed with paired t-tests, intraclass correlation coefficients with 95% confidence intervals, Bland-Altman plots, and folded empirical cumulative distribution plots (Mountain plots). All outcome variables were found to be statistically different (i.e. they did not agree) between the two devices (p < 0.001), except for average eccentric velocity (p = 0.315), as determined by the paired t-tests. Mountain plots had long tails for every outcome measure and Bland-Altman plots showed large limits of agreement for all outcome measures except concentric range of motion and the height of peak concentric velocity, demonstrating low agreement between devices. Based upon these findings and the previous validation of the OBS, these devices should not be used interchangeably.		[Carzoli, Joseph P.; Sousa, Colby A.; Zourdos, Michael C.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Lab, Field House 11A,Room 126A, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA; [Helms, Eric R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Zourdos, Michael C.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Lab, Field House 11A,Room 126A, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700003	18	Article; Article		
J	Alnuman, Nasim; Alshamasneh, Ahmad								The Effect of Inspiratory Muscle Training on the Pulmonary Function in Mixed Martial Arts and Kickboxing Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				81	1			53	63		10.2478/hukin-2022-0005			FEB 10 2022	2022	Inspiratory muscle training (IMT) has found its way into athletes' routine as a promising way of improving pulmonary function in combination with standard training. The objective of the study was to examine the effects of resistive IMT on the pulmonary function variables in athletes of two combat sports, i.e., mixed martial arts (MMA) and kickboxing. Fourteen kickboxing and 12 MMA male athletes qualified for the study. They were randomly assigned into experimental and control groups. While both groups participated in their standard training, the experimental group additionally participated in IMT which consisted of 30 breaths twice a day for 6 weeks. The pulmonary functions were measured at baseline and after 6 weeks of IMT. The addition of IMT to standard training increased significantly the forced expiratory volume in the first second to vital capacity ratio (FEV1/VC), and the maximum voluntary ventilation (MVV) (p < 0.05) with changes of 5.7%, and 28.6%, respectively, in MMA athletes. The kickboxing group showed no significant changes. The interaction of the sport discipline and IMT intervention yielded a strong significant change in the MVV (F(1, 11) = 14.53, p < 0.01), and FEV1/VC (F(1, 11) = 20.67, p < 0.01) to the benefit of MMA athletes in comparison with kickboxing athletes. Combining resistive IMT for 6 weeks with standard training was effective to improve some pulmonary functions in MMA athletes, but did not lead to additional gains in kickboxing athletes.		[Alnuman, Nasim; Alshamasneh, Ahmad] German Jordanian Univ, Sch Appl Med Sci, Dept Biomed Engn, POB 35247, Amman 11180, Jordan; [Alnuman, Nasim] German Jordanian Univ, Sch Appl Med Sci, Dept Biomed Engn, POB 35247, Amman 11180, Jordan								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000753944700005	28	Article; Article		
J	Burma, Joel S.; Cameron, Ben; Jasinovic, Tin; Lun, Victor; van Rassel, Cody R.; Sutter, Bonnie; Wiley, J. Preston; Schneider, Kathryn J.								The effect of an exertional field-test on sport concussion assessment tool 5 subcomponents in University rugby and wrestling athletes: A pilot prospective case series								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				21	27		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.01.005			MAY 2022	2022	Objectives: To evaluate how an exertional field-test impacts the Sport Concussion Assessment Tool 5 (SCAT5) subcomponents in uninjured athletes. Design: Prospective case-series. Setting: Sports medicine setting. Participants: A total of 37 rugby and wrestling athletes (76% female) with a median age of 19 years (range: 18-23). Twenty-one (57%) had a history of concussion. Main outcome measures: The SCAT5 was administered prior-to and following a volitionally fatiguing, field-based 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test. The primary outcome measures included: total symptom scores and severity, standardized assessment of concussion, neurological screening, and balance errors during the modified balance error scoring system. Wilcoxon signed-rank tests examined differences in ordinal data between pre- and post-exertion with Bonferroni corrections (alpha = 0.006). Data were also stratified into time to SCAT5 administration post-exertion and compared via Cliffs Delta (d). Results: The SCAT5 was administered a median of 20-min (interquartile range: 14-26-min) following exertion. No differences were found pre- and post-exertion across all SCAT5 metrics (p > 0.048). Within the post-exertion 0-10-min stratification, total symptoms and severity scores appeared to be elevated with a large effect size (d >= 0.64). Conclusions: While SCAT5 metrics were not statistically altered when quantified a median of 20-min following high-intensity exertion; greater symptom reporting may occur 10-min following exertion. (C) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Burma, Joel S.; van Rassel, Cody R.; Wiley, J. Preston; Schneider, Kathryn J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Burma, Joel S.; Schneider, Kathryn J.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Hotchkiss Brain Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Cameron, Ben; Jasinovic, Tin; Lun, Victor; Wiley, J. Preston] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Family Med, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Cameron, Ben; Lun, Victor; Sutter, Bonnie; Wiley, J. Preston; Schneider, Kathryn J.] Univ Calgary, Sport Med Ctr, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Schneider, Kathryn J.] Alberta Childrens Prov Gen Hosp, Cumming Sch Med, Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Schneider, Kathryn J.] Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Fac Kinesiol, KNB 3300D,2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000003	38	Article; Article		
J	Prum, Gregoire; Sauret, Christophe; Bourgain, Maxime; Rouillon, Olivier; Rouch, Philippe; Thoreux, Patricia								Can early golfing lead to acetabular and lower limb changes? A cross-sectional study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			270	277	17479541211073955	10.1177/17479541211073955			FEB 2023	2023	Golf is a sport which is sometimes started early, in particular for players who become professionals. The combination of an early practice (before growth peak) with high training loads could further increase the occurrence of musculoskeletal injuries. The aim of this study was to comparing the morphological and positional parameters of the acetabular and lower limbs of golfers with early or late involvement in the golf practice. Two populations: golfers with early involvement in golf practice (before adolescent growth peak, 12 y.o.), golfers with late involvement (after adolescent growth peak). Subjects underwent a low-dose biplanar radiograph in standard standing position allowing the 3D reconstruction of bones. Morphological parameters were automatically computed from it. Thirty-five male golf players were included: 13 in early group (mean age 27 y.o.), 22 in late group (mean age 56 y.o.). The index of cumulative torsions (sum of the tibial and femoral torsions) was different between sides in early: 7 degrees on the lead-side; 20 degrees on the trail-side (p < 0.01). This index was different between the lead-side of the early group compared to late (22 degrees; p < 0.001). It could be explained by the mechanical stresses applied on lead knee and ankle during the follow-through. Intensive golf involvement by young players could lead to bone morphology modifications.		[Prum, Gregoire; Sauret, Christophe; Bourgain, Maxime; Rouch, Philippe; Thoreux, Patricia] Arts & Metiers ParisTech, Inst Biomecan Humaine Georges Charpak, F-75013 Paris, France; [Prum, Gregoire] Rouen Univ Hosp, Phys & Rehabil Med, Rouen, France; [Bourgain, Maxime; Rouch, Philippe] EPF Grad Sch Engn, Cachan, France; [Rouillon, Olivier] French Golf Federat, Levallois Perret, France; [Thoreux, Patricia] Hop Hotel Dieu, AP HP, Ctr Invest Med Sport, Paris, France; [Prum, Gregoire] Arts & Metiers ParisTech, Inst Biomecan Humaine Georges Charpak, F-75013 Paris, France								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000758191000001	44	Article; Article		
J	Belcher, Suzanne; Whatman, Chris; Brughelli, Matt								A systematic video analysis of 21 anterior cruciate ligament injuries in elite netball players during games								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2022.2034928				2022	This systematic video analysis of 21 anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries sustained by elite-level netball players during televised games, describes the situation, movement pattern and player behaviour, providing insight regarding the injury mechanism. Seventeen of the ACL injuries occurred from jump-landing actions and only two from cutting manoeuvres. A common scenario was identified for 11 players. In this scenario, players were decelerating rapidly after jumping to receive a high pass, utilising a double-footed landing with a wide base of support (WBOS). Deceleration appeared to be applied predominantly via the injured leg with the knee extended and foot planted. Often the players appeared unbalanced on landing leaning too far back. ACL injury risk was possibly exacerbated by the players head turning away from the injured side. A further compressive knee moment may have been placed on the lateral aspect of the knee by bringing the ball from a high position to a low position at the estimated time of injury. Players may benefit from landing technique training programmes that encourage shoulder-width foot landings, with >= 30 degrees knee flexion, a small amount of plantar-flexion and good balance. Incorporating challenges to players balance and ability to cope with perturbations may also be beneficial. Training programmes should include instruction on securing the ball in a stable above pelvis-level position after receiving a pass and bringing their whole body around during landing into the direction of their next pass, rather than simply turning their head to look.		[Belcher, Suzanne; Whatman, Chris; Brughelli, Matt] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Sch Sport & Recreat, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Belcher, Suzanne] NetballSmart New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Belcher, Suzanne] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Sch Sport & Recreat, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Belcher, Suzanne] NetballSmart New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								24							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000752292100001	40	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Barros, Bianca Rodrigues da Silva; Cavalcanti, Isadora Braga Silva; da Silva Junior, Nilton; Sousa, Catarina de Oliveira								Correlation between upper limb function and clinical measures of shoulder and trunk mobility and strength in overhead athletes with shoulder pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				55				12	20		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.02.001			MAY 2022	2022	Objective: To investigate the correlation between functional performance and self-reported upper limb function and between these two functional measures and clinical measures of shoulder and trunk in overhead athletes with shoulder pain. Design: Cross-sectional study. Settings: Laboratory. Participants: Twenty-one volleyball and handball athletes (23.6 +/- 3.7 years) with shoulder pain in the dominant limb. Main outcome measures: Self-reported dominant upper limb function using Penn Shoulder Score and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand; shoulder and trunk range of motion; isometric strength of shoulder, periscapular, and trunk muscles; endurance time of trunk muscles; and functional upper limb performance using the Upper Quarter Y-Balance Test (UQYBT). Results: A moderate correlation was observed (r = 0.45-0.58; p 0.05) between UQYBT performance and strength of serratus anterior, lower trapezius, trunk rotators, and trunk flexors. No significant cor-relation was observed between UQYBT performance and the other clinical measures of shoulder and trunk (r = 0.01-0.39, p 0.05). Self-reported upper limb function was neither significantly correlated with clinical measures (r = 0.01-0.40, p > 0.05) nor with UQYBT performance (r = 0.02-0.19, p > 0.05). Conclusion: We observed a correlation between UQYBT performance and strength of periscapular and trunk muscles. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Barros, Bianca Rodrigues da Silva; Cavalcanti, Isadora Braga Silva; da Silva Junior, Nilton; Sousa, Catarina de Oliveira] Fed Univ Rio Grande Norte UFRN, Dept Phys Therapy, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Sousa, Catarina de Oliveira] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Fisioterapia, Av Sen Salgado Filho 3000, BR-58078970 Natal, RN, Brazil								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000792877000002	40	Article; Article		
J	Roberts, James W.; Towlson, Christopher P.; Malone, James J.								A survey on the English FA heading guidelines for youth soccer: Evidence of compliance, but with limited knowledge of safety								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			176	182	17479541221075213	10.1177/17479541221075213			FEB 2023	2023	Soccer heading may be problematic for neurocognitive function. The English Football Association (FA) recently introduced guidelines in order to limit the number of headers within training for youth soccer. However, it remains to be seen what the influence of these guidelines has been on the leaders of soccer teams that are primarily responsible for implementing the guidelines. Thus, we aimed to explore grassroot youth coaches' knowledge of, views on, and adherence to the heading guidelines. An online survey was distributed to team representatives across Local County FAs. The survey comprised of three sections: (1) background information, (2) heading practices including details on heading activities and views on heading safety, and (3) heading guidelines including levels of awareness, knowledge, and compliance. 240 coaches responded by stating they rarely (21%) or never (73%) practiced heading, although they mostly perceived heading as being somewhat safe (36%). While respondents indicated being only somewhat aware of the guidelines (43%), they scored very high on their perceived (92%) and actual (based on retrospective accounts of heading) (87%) compliance with the guidelines. There was a mixed perceived change within practice following the introduction of the guidelines (disagree = 26% vs. agree = 22%), and they were perceived as safe (86%) and appropriate (81%). Factors that were identified as being potential barriers were only marginally agreed upon (<30%) and tended to be related to in-game rules. While there is scope to successfully implement heading guidelines, there is some discrepancy between the requirements for heading safety and coaches' knowledge.		[Roberts, James W.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci RISES, Brain & Behav Lab, Tom Reilly Bldg,Byrom St, Liverpool L3 5AF, Merseyside, England; [Towlson, Christopher P.] Univ Hull, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Kingston Upon Hull HU6 7RX, N Humberside, England; [Malone, James J.] Liverpool Hope Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Hope Pk,Taggart Ave, Liverpool L16 9JD, Merseyside, England; [Roberts, James W.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci RISES, Brain & Behav Lab, Tom Reilly Bldg,Byrom St, Liverpool L3 5AF, Merseyside, England								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000752779300001	27	Article; Article		
J	Natrup, Jens; de Lussanet, Marc H. E.; Bostroem, Kim Joris; Wagner, Heiko								Angular velocity around the longitudinal axis in combination with head movements of springboard divers during twisted somersaults								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	2			282	299		10.1080/14763141.2022.2032297			FEB 1 2023	2023	The ability of springboard divers to perform and control difficult elements with multiple twisted somersaults before entering the water is of great interest for coaches and researchers. In order to produce twists within somersaults, divers use both 'contact' and 'aerial' techniques. After completing body axes rotations, head movements seem to be important, as they enable visual information in the air. The current study aims at investigating angular velocities around the longitudinal axis in combination with head movements of 13 springboard divers during twisted somersaults. Divers performed forward and backward somersaults with different numbers of half twists. The results revealed maximum longitudinal axis angular velocities between 500 degrees/s and 1300 degrees/s. Moreover, results showed that the use of contact technique was greater in twisted somersaults with backward approaches, and thus higher angular velocities could be achieved. While finishing the twists, head movements in the opposite direction to the longitudinal axis rotation occurred, which allow divers to orient themselves. Twist speeds influenced athletes' head movements to have greater angles and greater rotational velocities. Therefore, it is concluded that fast head movements are necessary in difficult twisted dives to allow orientation in the short phase between finishing the twist and entering the water surface.		[Natrup, Jens; de Lussanet, Marc H. E.; Bostroem, Kim Joris; Wagner, Heiko] Univ Munster, Dept Movement Sci, Munster, Germany; [de Lussanet, Marc H. E.; Wagner, Heiko] Univ Munster, Otto Creutzfeld Ctr, Munster, Germany; [Natrup, Jens] Univ Munster, Dept Movement Sci, Munster, Germany								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000750067400001	49	Article; Article		
J	Stosic, Jelena; Veiga, Santiago; Trinidad, Alfonso; Dopsaj, Milivoj; Navarro, Enrique								Effect of breakout phase on the stroke kinematics and coordinative swimming variables								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1669	1682		10.1080/14763141.2022.2033306			DEC 2 2023	2023	The first complete upper and lower limbswimming cycle after the underwater segment of start and turns represents the breakout phase in competitive swimming. The aim of the present research was to examine the effect of the breakout movements on the stroking variables and coordinative patterns of competitive swimmers. Thirty-three national-level male swimmers performed 4 x 25 m maximal efforts (one of each stroke in random order) from a push start and were recorded by two sequential cameras in the sagittal plane. The average velocity, stroke length, and stroke frequency; the relative duration (%) of the stroke phases; and the inter-limb discrete relative phases were calculated using direct linear transformation algorithms for the breakout and free-swimming phases. In general terms, swimming velocity during breakout was faster (delta 0.27 +/- 0.04 m/s, p < 0.001, ES = 0.33) than free swimming (in all strokes but breaststroke), not because of a faster previous underwater kicking or a modified coordinative swimming pattern, but because of an increase in the stroke rate (delta 4.68 +/- 0.79 cycles/min, p < 0.001, ES = 0.36). These results indicate how swimmers manage the changing constraints during breakout from underwater to surface swimming.		[Stosic, Jelena; Veiga, Santiago; Navarro, Enrique] Univ Politecn Madrid, Hlth & Human Performance Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Trinidad, Alfonso] Francisco de Vitoria Univ, Fac Educ & Humanities, Madrid, Spain; [Dopsaj, Milivoj] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Belgrade, Serbia; [Dopsaj, Milivoj] South Ural State Univ, Inst Sport Tourism & Serv, Chelyabinsk, Russia; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Hlth & Human Performance Dept, Madrid, Spain								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000750070400001	53	Article; Article		
J	Drikos, Sotirios; Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos; Gkreka, Sofia; Tsakiri, Marina; Barzouka, Karolina								Variations in Attack Patterns between Female and Male outside hitters in top-level Volleyball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			245	256	17479541221075723	10.1177/17479541221075723			FEB 2023	2023	In volleyball outside hitters have wide participation in the offensive game. This study aims to analyze the variables that predict attack effectiveness in top-level volleyball depending on gender. Inferential statistics, multinomial logistic regression and multiple correspondence analysis were applied to analyze 1931 attacks (1154 for women and 777 for men) from the six top-ranked teams in the Men and Women World Championships 2018. The analysis revealed that the two genders vary in some aspects of the game at the top level. In order to increase the odds for a winning attack, male volleyball teams must pass the ball to the setter accurately, setting in 2(nd) fast tempo to zones 4 and 6, enriching offensive options across all the net to avoid attack against an organized block. On the other hand, female teams must set in 2(nd) fast tempo to the offensive zone (positions 4 & 2), to avoid off-speed attacks, to spike primarily parallel and to take advantage of no block situations. A similarity between genders is that attack against a single block is more difficult and causes lower effectiveness than spike versus open double block.		[Drikos, Sotirios; Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos; Gkreka, Sofia; Tsakiri, Marina; Barzouka, Karolina] Natl Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Ethnikis Antistasis 41, Athens 17237, Greece; [Drikos, Sotirios] Natl Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Ethnikis Antistasis 41, Athens 17237, Greece								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000752778300001	46	Article; Article		
J	Dann, Rick A.; Kelly, Vincent G.								Considerations for the Physical Preparation of Freestyle Snowboarding Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	1			84	94		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000651			FEB 2022	2022	The rapid growth in trick progression for competitive snowboarding over the past 20 years has resulted in increased physical demands required from snowboarding athletes. Despite a wealth of knowledge surrounding strength and conditioning principles for other sports, researchers are yet to address the novel strength and conditioning challenges faced by the freestyle nature of competitive snowboarding. This article, therefore, offers practitioners strategies to address the unique considerations surrounding cultural qualities, injury prevention, unstable surface training, skill acquisition, and recovery strategies for the effective implementation of strength and conditioning interventions for snowboarding athletes.		[Dann, Rick A.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Kelly, Vincent G.] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Dann, Rick A.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000748375300007	81	Article; Article		
J	Baldwin, Kate M.; Badenhorst, Claire E.; Cripps, Ashley J.; Landers, Grant J.; Merrells, Robert J.; Bulsara, Max K.; Hoyne, Gerard F.								Strength Training for Long-Distance Triathletes: Theory to Practice								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				44	1			1	14		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000660			FEB 2022	2022	Concurrent training, commonly acknowledged as a training method where strength and endurance training are completed complementary to each other, is a strategy often implemented in endurance cyclists' and runners' programs to improve physiological determinants of success such as exercise economy. Although concurrent training methods and strategies have been examined to a large extent in endurance cyclists and runners, literature examining optimal concurrent training methods to improve physiological variables in long-distance triathletes is minimal, leaving optimal programming relatively unknown. This practical applications paper identifies and outlines current concepts and considerations regarding concurrent training for long-distance triathletes including mechanisms contributing to improved performance, muscle and movement patterns used, exercise selection, load, velocity of movement, scheduling, frequency, and duration of training. Common misconceptions related to concurrent training are also identified and practical considerations for the application of concurrent training for coaches, athletes, and other professionals to improve all 3 disciplines of triathlon are discussed.		[Baldwin, Kate M.; Cripps, Ashley J.; Merrells, Robert J.; Hoyne, Gerard F.] Univ Notre Dame, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Baldwin, Kate M.] Murdoch Univ, Discipline Exercise Sci, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [Badenhorst, Claire E.] Massey Univ, Coll Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Auckland, New Zealand; [Landers, Grant J.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci, Crawley, Australia; [Bulsara, Max K.] Univ Notre Dame, Inst Hlth Res, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Baldwin, Kate M.] Univ Notre Dame, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Baldwin, Kate M.] Murdoch Univ, Discipline Exercise Sci, Murdoch, WA, Australia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000748375300001	101	Article; Article		
J	Neuberg, Lena; Thiem, Stefan								Risk-taking in contests with heterogeneous players and intermediate Information-Evidence from handball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	7			851	880	15270025211071028	10.1177/15270025211071028			OCT 2022	2022	This paper analyzes the risk-taking behavior of heterogeneous players in dynamic contests with intermediate information. Using data from the first German Handball league, we measure risk-taking by substituting the goalkeeper for an additional field player. By differentiating between ex-ante and in-game heterogeneity, we show that underdogs and trailing teams are willing to take more risks and that favourites and underdogs react differently to interim information. Trailing underdogs choose riskier strategies than trailing favorites during a match. The increased overall risk-taking is indeed beneficial for underdogs, whereas favourites lose significantly more games as a result of increased risk-taking.		[Neuberg, Lena; Thiem, Stefan] Univ Munster, Inst Publ Econ, Wilmergasse 6-8, D-48143 Munster, Germany; [Neuberg, Lena] Univ Munster, Inst Publ Econ, Wilmergasse 6-8, D-48143 Munster, Germany								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000751526600001	54	Article; Article		
J	Oc, Yusuf; Toker, Aysegul								An acceptance model for sports technologies: the effects of sports motivation, sports type and context-aware characteristics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	4			785	803		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2021-0060			AUG 19 2022	2022	Purpose This study explores the drivers behind sports technology use and identifies the need for a new conceptualization of sports technology adoption. To address this issue, the authors create a new construct, "context-awareness," with four dimensions: tracking, coaching, sharing and gamification. Design/methodology/approach The paper uses a mixed-method approach, including in-depth interviews and partial least squares structural equation modeling. The proposed model combines technology acceptance frameworks with the Sports Motivation Scale and a novel context-awareness scale. It is empirically tested with a diverse sample of 600 respondents to identify use-intention differences according to sports motivation and sport types. Findings The paper reveals group differences in sports type (dynamic vs nondynamic) and sports motivation (intrinsic vs extrinsic) regarding sports technology use. It also suggests that perceived technology characteristics mediate the relationship between context-aware features and intention to use. Originality/value This research introduces a new construct of "context-awareness" into the literature on new technology acceptance. The proposed model combines insights from information systems, sports science, sports marketing and sports medicine to explain the adoption of complex technology.		[Oc, Yusuf] Kings Coll London, Kings Business Sch, London, England; [Toker, Aysegul] Bogazici Univ, Istanbul, Turkey; [Oc, Yusuf] Kings Coll London, Kings Business Sch, London, England								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000751404500001	78	Article; Article		
J	Werin, Maria; Maenhout, Annelies; Palmans, Tanneke; Borms, Dorien; Cools, Ann								Does verbal and tactile feedback change EMG activity in shoulder girdle and trunk muscles during plyometric exercise in overhead athletes with and without shoulder pain?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				54				65	73		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.01.003			MAR 2022	2022	Objectives: To investigate if there is a difference in muscle activity for overhead athletes before and after an intervention with correction of both core and scapula compared to no intervention and is there a difference between overhead athletes with or without shoulder pain. Design: Controlled laboratory EMG study including intervention. Setting: University EMG laboratory. Participants: Sixty overhead athletes, 30 with shoulder pain and 30 healthy controls were included performing plyometric rotational shoulder exercise. Main outcomes: Half of the participants received an intervention the other half were controls with no intervention. EMG muscle activity from 10 scapular, thoraco-humeral and trunk muscles were measured. Results: There were no significant differences in muscle activation levels between the groups with or without intervention. For the shoulder pain group, there were significant lower activity in Upper Trapezius when repeating the exercise. The shoulder pain group had significant higher activity in Pec-toralis Major compared to the Healthy Control group. Conclusions: Most differences were found between the pre-and post-test. Repetition of the exercise seems to be more important than verbal and tactile instructions. Comparing the shoulder pain group with the healthy controls confirms previous findings that, pain patients recruit muscles differently from healthy persons. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Werin, Maria; Maenhout, Annelies; Palmans, Tanneke; Borms, Dorien; Cools, Ann] Univ Ghent, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, De Pintelaan 185, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium; [Werin, Maria] Capio Artro Clin, Box 5605, S-11486 Stockholm, Sweden								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000763559900009	43	Article; Article		
J	Mack, Christina D.; Wasserman, Erin B.; Anderson, Deverick J.; Farkas, Gabriel; Delaney, Molly; Eichner, Daniel; Johnston, Kyle; Lassiter, Madeline K.; Myers, Emily; Mayer, Thom; Solomon, Gary; Sills, Allen								Anatomy of an American football game: Player-to-player contact before, during and after an NFL game in context of the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	3			234	239		10.1080/00913847.2022.2028536			MAY 4 2023	2023	Objectives To quantify levels of potential exposure to SARS-CoV-2 surrounding a typical professional American football game, with a focus on interactions on-field between teammates and opposing players before, during, and immediately after competition. Methods We examined across-Club consecutive interactions >= 2 minutes within 6 feet [1.8 meters] between athletes on opposing Clubs for all 2020 NFL regular season games (n = 256). Cumulative interaction was measured for a representative subset (n = 119; 46%) of games. Wearable proximity tracking devices (Kinexon) were used to measure distance and duration of interactions; these data were combined with game schedule and Club rosters for analyses. Frequency and per-game mean, median, interquartile range for consecutive interactions >= 2/>= 5 minutes and cumulative interactions >= 5/>= 15 were described overall and stratified by pre-game, in-game, and post-game. Results Of the 1964 distinct player-to-opponent contacts >= 2 minutes in NFL regular season games, the majority (n = 1,699; 87%) were fewer than 5 minutes in consecutive length. Among the mean 7.7 distinct contacts >= 2 minutes with opponents each game (median = 4; IQR = 2, 8), very few were >= 5 consecutive minutes at any point (mean = 1.0; median = 0; IQR = 0, 0). Most (n = 849; 43.2%) distinct contacts were pre-game, 546 (27.8%) were during competition, and 569 (29%) were post-game. In games where cumulative interactions were analyzed, there was an average of 17.1 player/opponent interactions with cumulative exposure >= 5 minutes (median = 12; IQR = 4, 30), almost all of which occurred during competition. Conclusion There is limited and short contact between and among competing players in professional American football. In the setting of infectious disease such as the COVID-19 pandemic, a robust prevention program integrating masking, distancing, hygiene, and ventilation when off-field can be created to minimize on- and off-field exposures, which effectively reduces transmission risk in outdoors and/or well-ventilated stadium settings.		[Mack, Christina D.; Wasserman, Erin B.; Farkas, Gabriel; Lassiter, Madeline K.] IQVIA Real World Solut, Res Triangle Pk, NC USA; [Anderson, Deverick J.] Duke Ctr Antimicrobial Stewardship & Infect Preve, Dept Med, Durham, NC USA; [Delaney, Molly; Myers, Emily; Solomon, Gary; Sills, Allen] Natl Football League, Player Hlth & Safety Dept, New York, NY USA; [Eichner, Daniel] Sports Med Res & Testing Lab, Salt Lake City, UT USA; [Johnston, Kyle] Miami Dolphins, Athlet Training, Miami, FL USA; [Mayer, Thom] Natl Football League Players Assoc, Washington, DC USA; [Mack, Christina D.] IQVIA, Epidemiol & Clin Evidence, 4820 Emperor Blvd, Durham, NC 27703 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000750095800001	24	Article; Article		
J	Willberg, Christina; Wellm, Dennis; Behringer, Michael; Zentgraf, Karen								Analyzing acute and daily load parameters in match situations - a comparison of classic and 3 x 3 basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			207	219	17479541211067989	10.1177/17479541211067989			FEB 2023	2023	Purpose 3 x 3 is a variation of classic basketball (BB) that imposes new demands on both athletes and coaches. The objective of this study was to comprehensively describe similarities and differences in load structures between 3 x 3 and BB. Method Between January 2020 and July 2021, internal and external load parameters of 90 elite BB and 3 x 3 athletes were monitored during 84 games using a local positioning system (10 Hz) and inertial movement sensors (100 Hz). Results Male BB games last about 90 min; female games are shorter (82 min). Game duration in 3 x 3 is about 16 min. Compared with BB, 3 x 3 athletes perform more medium- and high-intensity accelerations and decelerations, explosive efforts, jumps, and changes of direction (CODs) per min. Average heart rates do not differ between the two disciplines, yet 3 x 3 games are rated as more exhausting than BB games. During a 3 x 3 tournament, no decrease in load characteristics is found in the final games. However, ratings of perceived exertion increase consecutively. Average possession duration in 3 x 3 is 5.4 s in which 1.4 passes are played. Most 2-point shots and turnovers occur in the last minutes (11 min - end) of the game. Conclusion The findings of this study will help 3 x 3 coaches and athletes to design more effective training programmes and improve athletic performance. They indicate a need to focus on high accelerations, transitions, COD skills, and shooting under pressure in 3 x 3.		[Willberg, Christina; Wellm, Dennis; Zentgraf, Karen] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Sport Sci Movement & Exercise Sci Sport, Frankfurt, Germany; [Behringer, Michael] Goethe Univ Frankfurt Main, Inst Sport Sci Sports Med & Exercise Physiol, Frankfurt, Germany; [Willberg, Christina] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Sport Sci Movement & Exercise Sci Sport, Frankfurt, Germany								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000751319400001	45	Article; Article		
J	McGuigan, Hannah E.; Hassmen, Peter; Rosic, Nedeljka; Thornton, Heidi R.; Stevens, Christopher J.								Does education improve adherence to a training monitoring program in recreational athletes?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			101	113	17479541211070789	10.1177/17479541211070789			FEB 2023	2023	Monitoring athletes' training may help prevent negative consequences such as overtraining and burnout. However, acceptance or willingness of athletes to participate is a barrier to an effective training monitoring program. Educational strategies may potentially increase adherence. Therefore, our aims are to i) assess the impact of training monitoring education on adherence to a monitoring program; ii) determine the effect of the education intervention on burnout, stress, and recovery, and; iii) qualitatively investigate athlete perspectives of the education and training monitoring experience. Recreational athletes (18 male/17 female; age = 42.6 +/- 12.0) were randomised to either a control (n = 19) or education (n = 16) group and completed daily training monitoring through a smartphone application over 10 weeks. Pre-post assessments using the Athlete Burnout Questionnaire, the Acute Recovery Stress Scale, and a perceived knowledge of training monitoring questionnaire, and semi-structured interviews were performed. Adherence was low, with no differences between the control group ([mean +/- SD]; 43.0 +/- 38.8%) and the education group (45.8 +/- 36.7%). There were also no differences (p >0.05) between the groups on the standardised inventories. There was a significant effect of time (p <0.001) on participant's perceived understanding of training monitoring tools (scored out of 42) at the end of the washout period (Control: 24.4 +/- 6.6; Education: 28.5 +/- 5.6) and post-study (Control: 32.1 +/- 7.5; Education: 35.1 +/- 6.0) compared to the pre-study (Control: 21.5 +/- 7.3; Education: 21.9 +/- 7.7). Interviews revealed participants wanted more education on modifying their training, and feedback on their data. Our findings suggest this specific educational approach was not enough to increase adherence; other aspects of education and individual feedback needs to be further explored.		[McGuigan, Hannah E.; Hassmen, Peter; Rosic, Nedeljka; Stevens, Christopher J.] Southern Cross Univ, Fac Hlth, Coffs Harbour, Australia; [Rosic, Nedeljka] Southern Cross Univ, Marine Ecol Res Ctr, Lismore, NSW, Australia; [Thornton, Heidi R.] Gold Coast Suns Football Club, Carrara, Australia; [McGuigan, Hannah E.] Southern Cross Univ, Coffs Harbour, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000751389200001	29	Article; Article		
J	Duncan, Michael J.; Weldon, Anthony; Barnett, Lisa M.; Lander, Natalie								Perceptions and practices of fundamental movement skills in grassroots soccer coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			761	771	17479541211073547	10.1177/17479541211073547			AUG 2022	2022	This study presents the perceptions and practices of fundamental movement skills (FMS) in grassroots soccer coaches. One hundred and twenty-eight coaches (123 males, 5 females) completed an online mixed-method survey comprising 32 questions relating to: participant demographics, education, and qualifications; FMS perceptions, practices, and assessments, and the importance of FMS constructs; and other factors related to FMS. Frequency analysis was used to assess and report responses to fixed response and Likert-scale questions, and thematic analysis used for open-ended questions. Results indicated that grassroots soccer coaches have an awareness of the concept of FMS and value FMS as a contributor to developing general movement and soccer specific skills. However, there was a tendency for the coaches to conflate FMS with fitness. Coaches in the current study reported that developing FMS was useful to improve soccer development. The coaches suggested they assessed FMS but the measures they employed predominantly focused on more general movement outcomes. No coach used a valid or reliable process-oriented FMS assessment. Coaches used resources to inform their practice for FMS development, but the quality of resources accessed lacked an evidence base, with a reliance on social media. While the coaches in the current study reported valuing FMS, there are gaps in coach education and available evidence-based resources which inhibit the effective development of FMS within grassroots soccer practice. Providing training, qualifications and additional support for coaches related to FMS will aid implementation in practice.		[Duncan, Michael J.] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Technol & Higher Educ Inst Hong Kong THEi, Human Performance Lab, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Barnett, Lisa M.] Deakin Univ, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Sch Hlth & Social Dev, Fac Hlth, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Lander, Natalie] Deakin Univ, Ctr Res Educ Impact REDI, Sch Educ, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Duncan, Michael J.] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, W Midlands, England								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000751390900001	50	Article; Article		
J	Baellow, Andrea; Jaffri, Abbis H.; Hertel, Jay; Higgins, Michael J.; Rangecroft, Cameron M.; Hryvniak, David J.; Saliba, Susan A.								Intrinsic foot muscle size and quality in a single leg weight bearing position across foot posture types in individuals with Patellofemoral Pain compared to healthy								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				54				58	64		10.1016/j.ptsp.2022.01.002			MAR 2022	2022	Objective: To identify if any differences exist in IFM size and quality in single leg weight bearing position between healthy and PFP participants based on foot posture. Design: Cross-sectional, matched case-comparison study Setting: University Laboratory Setting Participants: 35 PFP (age:20.46 +/- 3.79yrs, mass:73.28 +/- 26.58 kg, height:170.80 +/- 11.91 cm) and 35 healthy (age:20.40 +/- 3.16yrs, mass:64.76 +/- 11.52 kg, height:169.55 +/- 9.10 cm) participants Methods: After measuring Foot Posture Index (FPI), ultrasound images (USI) of Abductor Hallucis (AH), Flexor Digitorum Brevis (FDB) and Quadratus Plantae (QP) were taken in a single limb weight bearing position. Cross-sectional area (CSA) and echogenicity were measured on the USI. Results: FPI was not different between groups (PFP:2.34 +/- 3.76, Healthy:2.34 +/- 3.10, 9 pronated and 26 non-pronated in both groups). AH CSA was smaller in PFP than healthy group (PFP:0.030 +/- 0.01 cm (Smith et al., 2018)/kg, Healthy:0.042 +/- 0.01 cm (Smith et al., 2018)/kg, P < 0.001) with a large effect (d = -1.20(-1.71, -0.69). There were no other significant group main effects or group-by-FP interactions in AH/FDB/QP CSA or echogenicity. Conclusion: AH CSA was smaller in PFP than healthy controls, but no difference in CSA or echogenicity of FDB/QP exist, as well as no difference in foot posture between groups. While single limb weight bearing, the PFP group presented with a smaller IFM which provides eccentric control of medial longitudinal arch, which may have implications up the chain during weight bearing functional tasks. (C) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Baellow, Andrea; Hertel, Jay; Higgins, Michael J.; Saliba, Susan A.] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, 210 Emmet St S, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Jaffri, Abbis H.] Creighton Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 2500 Calif Plaza, Omaha, NE 68178 USA; [Rangecroft, Cameron M.] Univ Virginia, Dept Stat, 148 Amphitheater Way, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Hryvniak, David J.] Univ Virginia, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, 545 Ray C Hunt Dr, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Jaffri, Abbis H.] Creighton Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 2500 Calif Plaza, Omaha, NE 68178 USA								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000763559900008	30	Article; Article		
J	Pogliaghi, Silvia; Teso, Massimo; Ferrari, Luca; Boone, Jan; Murias, Juan M.; Colosio, Alessandro L.								Easy Prediction of the Maximal Lactate Steady-State in Young and Older Men and Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				22	1			68	74		10.52082/jssm.2023.68			MAR 2023	2023	Maximal Lactate steady-state (MLSS) demarcates sustainable from unsustainable exercise and is used for evaluation/monitoring of exercise capacity. Still, its determination is physically chal-lenging and time-consuming. This investigation aimed at validat-ing a simple, submaximal approach based on blood lactate accu-mulation ([ increment lactate]) at the third minute of cycling in a large co-hort of men and women of different ages. 68 healthy adults (40 male, 28 female, 43 +/- 17 years (range 19 -78), VO2max45 +/- 11 ml-1 center dot kg-1 center dot min- 1 (25 -68)) performed 3-5 constant power output (PO) trials with a target duration of 30 minutes to determine the PO corresponding to MLSS. During each trial, [ increment lactate] was calculated as the dif-ference between the third minute and baseline. A multiple linear regression was computed to estimate MLSS based on [ increment lactate], subjects` gender, age and the trial PO. The estimated MLSS was compared to the measured value by paired t-test, correlation, and Bland-Altman analysis. The group mean value of estimated MLSS was 180 +/- 51 W, not significantly different from (p = 0.98) and highly correlated with (R2 = 0.89) measured MLSS (180 +/- 54 watts). The bias between values was 0.17 watts, and imprecision 18.2 watts. This simple, submaximal, time-and cost-efficient test accurately and precisely predicts MLSS across different samples of healthy individuals (adjusted R2 = 0.88) and offers a practical and valid alternative to the traditional MLSS determination.		[Pogliaghi, Silvia; Teso, Massimo; Ferrari, Luca] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Murias, Juan M.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Colosio, Alessandro L.] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Pogliaghi, Silvia] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000921965800001	37	Article; Article		
J	Kowalsky, Robert J.; Farney, Tyler M.; Hearon, Christopher M.								Resistance Exercise Breaks Improve Ratings of Discomfort and Sleepiness in College Students								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			210	215		10.1080/02701367.2021.1959508			JAN 2 2023	2023	Background: Emerging research suggests using resistance exercises to interrupt prolonged sitting may increase physical activity and reduce fatigue, sleepiness, and muscular discomfort, yet it is unclear if these improvements occur in college students. Methods: Twenty-four students (age 23.1 +/- 3.4 years, BMI 27.4 +/- 5.0 kg center dot m(-2)) completed two 7-day assessments of discomfort, physical fatigue, mental fatigue, and sleepiness while wearing an ActivPAL. Each week (CON vs REX) followed normal activities while completing assessments in the morning (M), mid-day (MD), and evening (E). During REX, hourly resistance exercise breaks (1 exercise per break, 8 breaks per day) for 2 sets of 15 repetitions. Paired t-tests evaluated difference in physical activity variables. Repeated measures ANOVA (0 between, 3 within) evaluated differences in discomfort, physical fatigue, mental fatigue, and sleepiness variables across treatment (CON vs. REX). Results: Comparison of physical activity resulted in no statistical significance between treatments for all outcomes (p >= 0.05). A main effect for treatment was observed for overall discomfort (CON: 2.97, REX: 1.72; p = .042) and for sleepiness (CON: 4.38, REX: 3.89; p = .011). Conclusion: Hourly simple resistance breaks resulted in no compensation in steps or sedentary time while reducing muscular discomfort and sleepiness in a relatively healthy and active population.		[Kowalsky, Robert J.; Farney, Tyler M.; Hearon, Christopher M.] Texas A&M Univ Kingsville, Kingsville, TX USA; [Kowalsky, Robert J.] Texas A&M Univ Kingsville, Dept Hlth & Kinesiol, 700 Univ Blvd,MSC 198, Kingsville, TX 78363 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000748199800001	38	Article; Article		
J	Mojica, Edward S.; Lin, Charles C.; Kirschner, Noah; Ortega, Paola F.; Hurley, Eoghan T.; Campbell, Kirk A.; Alaia, Michael J.; Jazrawi, Laith M.								Platelet-rich plasma outcomes do not correlate with patient satisfaction or perceived cost-effectiveness								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	3			223	227		10.1080/00913847.2021.2025163			MAY 4 2023	2023	Background As platelet-rich plasma injection for knee osteoarthritis (OA) has increased in popularity, it has become more important to assess its effectiveness and satisfaction with its use in the context of its high cost. The purpose of this study was to determine satisfaction, commercial appeal, and effectiveness of platelet-rich plasma (PRP) for the treatment of knee OA. Methods A retrospective review of patients who underwent PRP injection in the knee from 2016 to 2019 was performed. Various patient-reported outcomes were collected, including: satisfaction with the PRP injection (out of 100), whether the patient would want to undergo PRP injection again, whether they would recommend the injection and whether they felt that the injection was worth the cost was collected. VAS pain scores were collected and measured out of 100. Demographics and radiographical information were obtained via chart review. Statistical analyses were conducted including descriptive statistics and binary logistic and linear regressions. Results Overall, 114 patients were included. The mean pre-injectionpain score was 70.4, and the mean pain level decreased after injection to 36.8. Patients rated their satisfaction on average as neutral along the aforementioned continuous scale (49.2), , 50.9% stated that they would get the PRP injection again, 60.5% would recommend to a friend, and 50.9% felt the injection was worth the cost. Younger age and improved post-injection pain correlated with increasing likelihood of desiring further PRP injection. Conclusions Patients on average rated satisfaction slightly below average, indicating net neutrality in terms of satisfaction with their injection. Furthermore, only half of the patients indicated that it was worth the cost and that they would receive it again. Younger age and post-injection pain relief increased desire for further injection, but pain-relief did not correlate with patients saying that the injection was worth the cost.		[Mojica, Edward S.; Lin, Charles C.; Kirschner, Noah; Ortega, Paola F.; Hurley, Eoghan T.; Campbell, Kirk A.; Alaia, Michael J.; Jazrawi, Laith M.] NYU Langone Hlth, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Div Sports Med, New York, NY 10015 USA; [Mojica, Edward S.] NYU Langone Hlth, 333 E38th, New York, NY 10015 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000746472800001	28	Article; Article		
J	Rauff, Erica L.; Herman, Augustine; Berninger, Douglas; Machak, Sean; Shultz, Sarah P.								Using sport science data in collegiate athletics: Coaches' perspectives								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			500	509	17479541211065146	10.1177/17479541211065146			JUN 2022	2022	Limited research has examined American collegiate coaches' perceptions of collecting data for informing training practices. The purpose of this study was to examine collegiate coaches' perspectives and needs for collecting data from their athletes using a qualitative approach. Four focus groups were conducted with NCAA Division I coaches (N = 13) at a mid-sized liberal arts university. Coaches were asked how they could benefit from collecting data from their athletes, how they would use the data to answer questions about athletes' performance, what data they would want to collect, and what concerns they had regarding data collection. Principles of thematic analysis were used to analyze the interviews. Most coaches (54%) felt that collecting data would provide evidence needed to support training methodologies, and they would benefit (i.e. make improvements to coaching and athlete training) from monitoring progress in their athletes (61%). Regarding performance questions, coaches were interested in utilizing a biomechanist to conduct movement analyses (23%) and assessing athletes' mental and emotional states (23%). Coaches wanted to monitor athletes' fatigue, recovery, mental health states, and health behaviors (i.e. sleep and diet; 15%). Coaches expressed concerns over finding an optimal time to test athletes (8%) and effective presentation of data to athletes (23%) while limiting body composition assessments due to athlete discomfort (15%). Findings from these focus groups suggest that coaches would like to collect data to learn more about athletes' physical and mental states, but several logistical and practical concerns still exist regarding how to efficiently collect and utilize the data.		[Rauff, Erica L.; Herman, Augustine; Berninger, Douglas; Machak, Sean; Shultz, Sarah P.] Seattle Univ, Kinesiol Dept, Seattle, WA 98122 USA; [Rauff, Erica L.] Kinesiol Dept, 901 12th Ave,Casey 540-07, Seattle, WA 98122 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000749948500001	35	Article; Article		
J	Vicente-Mampel, Juan; Bautista, Iker J.; Martin, Fernando; Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio; Van Hooren, Bas; Baraja-Vegas, Luis								Effects of ankle position during the Nordic Hamstring exercise on range of motion, heel contact force and hamstring muscle activation								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2359	2371		10.1080/14763141.2021.2025416			NOV 1 2024	2024	One of the main benefits of the Nordic Hamstring Exercise (NHE) is that it can be performed without the need of any extra material. However, numerous technical execution variables such as the ankle and pelvis position can influence the performance. The primary aims of this study were to investigate the effects of ankle position (i.e., plantar or dorsal flexion) on Nordic Hamstring Break Point (NHBP), repetition time and heel contact force. A secondary aim was to investigate differences in biceps femoris long head and semitendinosus muscle activation. Male professional field hockey players (n = 12) volunteered for the study. Paired t-tests were used to analyse the effect of ankle position on muscle NHBP, eccentric peak torque and repetition time. Ankle dorsal flexion resulted in a higher NHBP (p = 0.002, effect size [ES] = 1.48 [0.57 to 2.38]), repetition time (p = 0.004, ES = 0.98 [0.24 to 1.72]) and both absolute and relative heel contact force (p = 0.028, ES = 0.67 [0.01 to 1.34], p = 0.017, ES = 0.76 [0.07 to 1.44], respectively) compared to plantar flexion. Muscle activation was not significant different. This study showed a higher NHBP, absolute and relative heel contact force and repetition time with a dorsal flexed ankle vs. a plantar flexed ankle in the NHE, without changes in hamstrings muscle activation.		[Vicente-Mampel, Juan; Bautista, Iker J.; Baraja-Vegas, Luis] Catholic Univ Valencia, Dept Physiotherapy, Torrent, Spain; [Martin, Fernando] Univ Valencia, Res Grp Prevent & Hlth Exercise & Sport, Valencia, Spain; [Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio] European Univ Miguel Cervantes, Dept Hlth Sci, Valladolid, Spain; [Van Hooren, Bas] Maastricht Univ, Nutrim Sch Nutr & Translat Res Metab, Dept Nutr & Movement Sci, Med Ctr, Maastricht, Netherlands; [Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio] European Univ Miguel Cervantes, Dept Hlth Sci, Valladolid, Spain								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000744876600001	33	Article; Article		
J	Song, Huimin; Zeng, Ting-ting; Yim, Brian H.								A re-examination of conspicuous sport consumption theory on golf and skiing from leisure involvement perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	4			727	747		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2021-0078			AUG 19 2022	2022	Purpose The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between leisure involvement (LI), conspicuous sport consumption and subjective well-being (SW) for two luxury leisure activities: golf and skiing. Design/methodology/approach The authors collected data from Guangdong Province (golf, n = 342) and Jilin Province (skiing, n = 310) and examined the proposed model using structural equation modeling (SEM) and tested the mediating effect of conspicuous sport consumption using bootstrapping method. Findings The findings show that the proposed model explained the relationships among LI, conspicuous sport consumption and SW. Furthermore, the findings suggest that LI and conspicuous consumption (CC) can elevate sport participants' perception of SW, enriching leisure-class theory. Originality/value The authors' findings contribute to the domain of CC in sport participant and leisure research and provide significant implications for the sport tourism marketers.		[Song, Huimin] Huaqiao Univ, Quanzhou, Peoples R China; [Zeng, Ting-ting] Sun Yan Sen Univ Med Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Yim, Brian H.] Kent State Univ, Fdn Leadership & Adm, Kent, OH 44242 USA; [Yim, Brian H.] Kent State Univ, Fdn Leadership & Adm, Kent, OH 44242 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000748479700001	128	Article; Article		
J	Lattari, Eduardo; Faria Vieira, Lucas Antunes; Rodrigues Santos, Lucas Eduardo; Jesus Abreu, Marco Antonio; Rodrigues, Guilherme Moraes; Ramalho de Oliveira, Bruno Ribeiro; Machado, Sergio; Maranhao Neto, Geraldo Albuquerque; Santos, Tony Meireles								Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation Combined With or Without Caffeine: Effects on Training Volume and Pain Perception								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			45	54		10.1080/02701367.2021.1939251			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study aimed to investigate the acute effects of tDCS combined with caffeine intake on training volume and pain perception in the bench press in resistance-trained males. The correlation between training volume and pain perception was also assessed in all interventions. Methods: Sixteen healthy males (age = 25.2 +/- 4.7 years, body mass = 82.8 +/- 9.1 kg, and height = 178.3 +/- 5.7 cm), advanced in RT, were randomized and counterbalanced for the following experimental conditions: Sham tDCS with placebo intake (Sham+Pla), Sham tDCS with caffeine intake (Sham+Caff), anodal tDCS with placebo intake (a-tDCS+Pla), and anodal tDCS with caffeine intake (a-tDCS+Caff). The caffeine or placebo ingestion (both with 5 mg.kg(-1)) occurred 40 minutes before the tDCS sessions. The tDCS was applied over the left DLPFC for 20 minutes, with a 2 mA current intensity. After the tDCS sessions, participants performed the bench press with an 80% of 1RM load, where training volume and pain perception were measured. Results: Training volume was higher in the 1(st) and 2(nd) sets in both a-tDCS+Caff and Sham+Caff conditions, compared to the Sham+Pla condition (P < .05). Both a-tDCS+Caff and a-tDCS+Pla showed an increased pain perception during the third set compared to the first set. Also, no correlation was found between the number of repetitions and pain perception in any condition (P > .05). Conclusion: This research revealed that caffeine intake alone could be used as an ergogenic aid during resistance training programs in resistance-trained males.		[Lattari, Eduardo; Rodrigues Santos, Lucas Eduardo; Santos, Tony Meireles] Pernambuco Fed Univ, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Lattari, Eduardo; Faria Vieira, Lucas Antunes; Jesus Abreu, Marco Antonio; Rodrigues, Guilherme Moraes] Salgado Oliveira Univ, Sao Goncalo, Brazil; [Ramalho de Oliveira, Bruno Ribeiro] Univ Fed Rural Rio de Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Machado, Sergio] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Maranhao Neto, Geraldo Albuquerque] St Annes Univ Hosp Brno FNUSA, Brno, Czech Republic; [Lattari, Eduardo] Pernambuco Fed Univ UFPE, Phys Educ Dept, BR-50670901 Recife, PE, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000742335500001	38	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Garcia, Jaime; Giraldez-Costas, Veronica; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Drust, Barry; Romero-Moraleda, Blanca								Assessment of Peak Physical Demands in Elite Women Soccer Players: Can Contextual Variables Play a Role?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			435	443		10.1080/02701367.2021.2004297			APR 3 2023	2023	Aim: To describe and compare the peak physical demands through the worst-case scenario method (WCS), according to different rolling average (RA) time epochs (i.e. 1 min, 3 min, and 5 min) and contextual variables in women soccer players. Methods: Using an observational-comparative study design, an elite women soccer team from the Spanish 1(st) league division was monitored during 27 matches. Nine WCS-dependent variables were assessed, including total distance (TD), high-speed running distance (HSR), sprint distance (SP), acceleration, and deceleration distance at different intensities by players position (i.e., central defenders [CD], wide defenders [WD], central midfielders [CM], wide midfielders [WM], forwards [F]), match half, location, and match outcome. Results: The 1-min RA showed the lowest variability (CV = 9.8-65.8%) for all nine dependent variables. The WD presented the highest TD (168 +/- 15.71 m/min). Differences between positions were observed for: CM<F (-10.19 m/min), CM<WM (-11.20 m/min), and CM<WD (-12.70 m/min). For SP: CM<F (-10.03 m/min), CM<WM (-11.91 m/min), CM<WD (-10.03 m/min), and CM<CD (-5.31 m/min). The WCS-dependent variables were also affected by match half and match outcome. Conclusions: 1-min RA time epochs allow greater accuracy and reliability to identify nine key WCS outcomes in elite women soccer players. Different contextual variables, particularly player's position, influenced the peak periods.		[Gonzalez-Garcia, Jaime; Giraldez-Costas, Veronica] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Madrid, Spain; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Osorno, Chile; [Drust, Barry] Univ Birmingham, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Romero-Moraleda, Blanca] Autonomous Univ Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Jaime] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Hlth Sci Fac, Calle Castillo Alarcon 49, Madrid 28692, Spain								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000742338200001	32	Article; Article		
J	Fernandez, Arden; Wimer, Gregory S.; Culver, Meral N.; Flatt, Andrew A.; Grosicki, Gregory J.								Fan Cooling Improves Submaximal Exercise Capacity in an Indoor Thermoneutral Environment								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			124	130		10.1080/02701367.2021.1946467			JAN 2 2023	2023	We compared physiological and perceptual responses to submaximal, moderate-vigorous, heart rate-based cycle ergometry with and without a fan. Methods: Sixteen recreationally active adults (25 +/- 3 years; 8 men and 8 women) participated in the study. After an initial visit to assess cardiorespiratory fitness, each participant performed two 40-min training sessions on a cycle ergometer, either with or without a fan (similar to 4 m/s), while workload was continually adjusted to elicit and maintain 70% of heart rate reserve. Workload, oxygen cost, and respiratory exchange ratio were monitored throughout, and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) and thermal sensation were recorded every 5 min. Blood lactate was recorded pre-, mid-, and post-sessions and nude body mass was obtained pre-post. Results: Greater (p < .01) mean workload (+15%) and oxygen consumption (+9%) yielded significantly greater (p < .01) energy expenditure with fan cooling (344 +/- 124 kcals) compared to without fan cooling (302 +/- 103 kcals). Thermal sensation, but not RPE (p = .09), was lower (p < .01) with fan cooling (3.8 +/- 0.7) compared to without fan cooling (5.5 +/- 0.8), and body mass loss was attenuated (p < .05) with fan cooling (-0.4 +/- 0.2 kg) compared to the non-fan trial (-0.6 +/- 0.3 kg). Significantly higher (p < .05) blood lactate values were observed in Fan (3.0 +/- 1.9 mmol/l) vs. No Fan (2.5 +/- 1.4 mmol/l) trials. Conclusions: Fan cooling during submaximal, moderate-vigorous intensity cycle ergometry significantly enhanced work capacity and energy expenditure without increasing perceived exertion. These data highlight the utility of fan cooling as a means to increase the effectiveness of indoor, heart rate-based cycle training.		[Fernandez, Arden; Wimer, Gregory S.; Culver, Meral N.; Flatt, Andrew A.; Grosicki, Gregory J.] Georgia Southern Univ, Armstrong Campus, Savannah, GA 31419 USA; [Grosicki, Gregory J.] Georgia Southern Univ, Biodynam & Human Performance Ctr, Armstrong Campus,11935 Abercom St, Savannah, GA 31419 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000742295000001	31	Article; Article		
J	Sachet, Iris; Nygaard, Niels Peter Brochner; Guilhem, Gael; Hug, Francois; Dorel, Sylvain								Strength capacity of lower-limb muscles in world-class cyclists: new insights into the limits of sprint cycling performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	4			536	553		10.1080/14763141.2021.2024243			APR 3 2023	2023	This study aimed to determine the relationship between the torque-generating capacity in sprint cycling and the strength capacity of the six lower-limb muscle groups in male and female world-class sprint cyclists. Eleven female and fifteen male top-elite cyclists performed 5-s sprints at maximal power in seated and standing positions. They also performed a set of maximal voluntary ankle, knee and hip flexions and extensions to assess single-joint isometric and isokinetic torques. Isokinetic torques presented stronger correlations with cycling torque than isometric torques for both body positions, regardless of the group. In the female group, knee extension and hip flexion torques accounted for 81.2% of the variance in cycling torque, while the ability to predict cycling torque was less evident in males (i.e., 59% of variance explained by the plantarflexion torque only). The standing condition showed higher correlations than seated and a better predictive model in males (R-2 = 0.88). In addition to the knee extensors and flexors and hip extensors, main power producers, the strength capacity of lower-limb distal plantarflexor (and to a lesser extent dorsiflexor) muscles, as well as other non-measured qualities (e.g., the upper body), might be determinants to produce such extremely high cycling torque in males.		[Sachet, Iris; Hug, Francois; Dorel, Sylvain] Univ Nantes, Lab Movement Interact Performance Ea 4334, Nantes, France; [Sachet, Iris] French Cycling Federat, St Quentin en Yvelines, France; [Nygaard, Niels Peter Brochner] Univ Hosp Southern Denmark, Hosp South West Jutland, Res Unit Hlth Sci, Esbjerg, Denmark; [Nygaard, Niels Peter Brochner] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Reg Hlth Res, Odense, Denmark; [Guilhem, Gael] French Inst Sport Insep, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, Ea 7370, Paris, France; [Hug, Francois] Univ Cote Azur, LAMHESS, Nice, France; [Hug, Francois] Univ Queensland, Nhmrc Ctr Clin Res Excellence Spinal Pain Injury, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Hug, Francois] Inst Univ France Iuf, Paris, France; [Dorel, Sylvain] Univ Nantes, Lab Movement Interact Performance Ea 4334, Nantes, France								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000742501500001	42	Article; Article		
J	Nolan, David; Elliott-Sale, Kirsty J.; Egan, Brendan								Prevalence of hormonal contraceptive use and reported side effects of the menstrual cycle and hormonal contraceptive use in powerlifting and rugby								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	3			217	222		10.1080/00913847.2021.2024774			MAY 4 2023	2023	Objectives The prevalence of hormonal contraceptive (HC) use and the associated symptomology of use or nonuse are under-studied in athletic populations, and in particular, in strength and collision sports. This study aimed to investigate the prevalence of hormonal contraceptive use and reported side effects of the menstrual cycle and hormonal contraceptive use in powerlifters and rugby players. Methods Competitive female powerlifters and rugby players (aged >= 18 y), representing a strength and a collision sport respectively, completed an anonymous online questionnaire for the purpose of assessing self-reported prevalence of HC use, and symptoms of the menstrual cycle and HC use. Athletes were categorized by sport (powerlifters, n = 149; rugby players, n = 135) in order to conduct a stratified analysis. For open-ended questions, a content analysis was conducted to categorize responses, and frequency analyses were performed. Results Current HC use was reported by 51.1% of athletes, with similar prevalence for the two sports (powerlifting, 48.3% vs. rugby, 54.1%, P = 0.34). Side effects of the menstrual cycle were reported in 83.5% of non-HC users, with the most common being unspecified cramping (42.4%), headache/migraine (24.5%), and fatigue (24.5%). Side effects were reported in 40.0% of HC users, with the most common being mood changes (17.9%), stomach pain (8.3%) and headaches/migraines (6.9%). Conclusion A large proportion of HC users and nonusers in this study experience negative side effects of HC use and the menstrual cycle, respectively. The symptoms experienced by both groups are wide-ranging, with a high degree of variation between individuals. The negative side-effects experienced by HC users and nonusers may have an influence on athletic performance, and this requires future investigation.		[Nolan, David; Egan, Brendan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin 9, Ireland; [Elliott-Sale, Kirsty J.] Nottingham Trent Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Nottingham, England; [Egan, Brendan] Florida Inst Human & Machine Cognit, Pensacola, FL USA; [Egan, Brendan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin 9, Ireland								40							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000742233300001	34	Article; Article		
J	Marzouki, Hamza; Ouergui, Ibrahim; Cherni, Bilel; Ben Ayed, Karim; Bouhlel, Ezdine								Effects of different sprint training programs with ball on explosive, high-intensity and endurance-intensive performances in male young soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			123	131	17479541211072225	10.1177/17479541211072225			FEB 2023	2023	This study compared the effects of different sprint ball-based training programs on fitness-related performances in youth soccer players. Forty male players (age: 15.2 +/- 0.6 yrs) participated in a short-term (8 weeks) randomized parallel fully controlled training study, with pre-to-post measurements. Players were randomly assigned to 3 sprint ball-based training groups: training with combined sprint (performing linear and change of direction sprints; CST), or using linear sprint (LST), or performing sprint with change of direction (CODT) and to a control group (CONT). Pre- and post-training players completed a test battery involving linear sprinting (10 and 20 m, and flying 10 m), 505 test (COD), 15 m test with ball (CODB), countermovement jump test (CMJ test) and maximal oxygen consumption (VO(2)max). All physical performance' variables improved after the training intervention (all p < 0.05; ES >= 0.2). No main effect of groups was observed in linear sprinting, CMJ and VO(2)max (p > 0.05; ES < 0.2). A training group main effect was found (p < 0.0001; ES = 0.50) for COD with CODT induced better performance than LST and CONT (all p 0.8). Also, a training group main effect (p = 0.009; ES = 0.35) was found for CODB with CODT elicited better performance than LST and CONT (all p = 0.001; ES > 0.80). Our findings suggest that ball-based training programs were more effective to improve fitness levels in youth players during the in-season period and that CODT modality was more effective to improve COD and CODB performances.		[Marzouki, Hamza; Ouergui, Ibrahim; Cherni, Bilel; Ben Ayed, Karim] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Jendouba, Tunisia; [Bouhlel, Ezdine] Univ Sousse, Fac Med Ibn El Jazzar, Lab Cardiocirculatory Resp Metab & Hormonal Adapt, Sousse, Tunisia; [Marzouki, Hamza] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Jendouba, Tunisia								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000749945700001	53	Article; Article		
J	Weldon, Anthony; Wong, Sing T.; Mateus, Nuno; Duncan, Michael J.; Clarke, Neil D.; Pears, Matthew; Owen, Adam L.; Bishop, Chris								The strength and conditioning practices and perspectives of soccer coaches and players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			742	760	17479541211072242	10.1177/17479541211072242			AUG 2022	2022	Strength and conditioning (S&C) is implemented across various sports and levels, but there is limited understanding of the personnel responsible for this, including their S&C practices and perspectives. Whereas recent evidence has shown that coaches and players are often tasked with the responsibility. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate: 1) the personnel responsible for delivering S&C across different levels of soccer, 2) the practices and perspectives of soccer coaches and players, and 3) to ascertain whether the practices employed align with contemporary evidence and guidelines. Forty-two soccer coaches and 30 soccer players completed an online survey with six sections: (a) informed consent, (b) background information, (c) education, qualifications, and prescription, (d) views on S&C, (e) exercise selection and preferences, and (f) issues and improvements. Frequency analysis was used to report responses to fixed-response questions and thematic analysis for open-ended questions. Most respondents reported S&C to be 'important' to 'very important' for all soccer, physical fitness, and injury parameters, with perspectives being predominantly aligned with S&C guidelines and research in soccer. Although S&C coaches were mostly responsible for delivering S&C sessions, over 60% of respondents disclosed S&C sessions were delivered independently or by support staff. This is problematic given only four coaches held S&C qualifications, and issues and improvements were mostly regarding a lack of S&C expertise and education. This study provides valuable information for S&C and soccer organizations. Particularly regarding the additional support required to ensure those responsible for delivering S&C in soccer have the appropriate knowledge and qualifications.		[Weldon, Anthony; Wong, Sing T.] Technol & Higher Educ Inst Hong Kong, Dept Sports & Recreat, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Mateus, Nuno] CIDESD, CreativeLab Res Community, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Mateus, Nuno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Sch Life Sci & Environm, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Vila Real, Portugal; [Duncan, Michael J.; Clarke, Neil D.] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Pears, Matthew] Hong Kong Football Assoc, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Owen, Adam L.] Claude Bernard Lyon, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Biol, Lyon, France; [Owen, Adam L.] Seattle Sounders Football Club, Seattle, WA USA; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Weldon, Anthony] Technol & Higher Educ Inst Hong Kong, Dept Sports & Recreat, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000751078300001	37	Article; Article		
J	Gutierrez, Jorge Cortes; Walton, Sean Peter; Bezodis, Neil Edward								Development of a novel biofeedback system for the sprint start								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			114	122	17479541211072729	10.1177/17479541211072729			FEB 2023	2023	This study developed and evaluated a novel concurrent biofeedback system for the sprint start. Previous studies have investigated sprint start biofeedback applications, but these have either not considered important kinematics, coaching implications or key motor learning principles. The biofeedback system was developed to convey rear knee angle information, obtained from 3D motion capture to novice participants as changes in the colour of an LED start line when they were in the "set" position. Based on initial user feedback, the system indicated whether the participants' rear knee angles were within +/- 2 degrees of 130 degrees (green) or not (red). A two-group experimental study was then employed to explore the acute responses of novices to the use of the biofeedback system during the sprint start. When exposed to biofeedback, the experimental group (EXP, n = 10) exhibited less deviation (4.0 +/- 2.4 degrees) from the target rear knee angle than they did in either a pre-test (11.9 +/- 6.9 degrees) or post-test (10.4 +/- 4.4 degrees) condition without biofeedback. The control group (CON, n = 10) with no biofeedback exhibited greater deviation from the target rear knee angle than the EXP group in all three condition blocks (pre-test = 21.8 +/- 15.1 degrees, no intervention = 15.6 +/- 7.3 degrees, post-test = 14.3 +/- 6.5 degrees) but the group x condition interaction effect was not significant (P = 0.210). The novel biofeedback system can be used to manipulate selected "set" position kinematics and has the potential to be incorporated with different input systems (e.g. inertial measurement units (IMUs)) or in longitudinal designs.		[Gutierrez, Jorge Cortes; Bezodis, Neil Edward] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Technol Exercise & Med Res Ctr, Bay Campus, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Gutierrez, Jorge Cortes] London South Bank Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Ctr, London, England; [Walton, Sean Peter] Swansea Univ, Dept Comp Sci, Computat Foundry, Bay Campus, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Gutierrez, Jorge Cortes] London South Bank Univ, 103 Borough Rd, London SE1 0AA, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000749943700001	43	Article; Article		
J	Feser, Erin; Lindley, Kyle; Clark, Kenneth; Bezodis, Neil; Korfist, Christian; Cronin, John								Comparison of two measurement devices for obtaining horizontal force-velocity profile variables during sprint running								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1455	1461	17479541211067211	10.1177/17479541211067211			DEC 2022	2022	This study established the magnitude of systematic bias and random error of horizontal force-velocity (F-v) profile variables obtained from a 1080 Sprint compared to that obtained from a Stalker ATS II radar device. Twenty high-school athletes from an American football training group completed a 30 m sprint while the two devices simultaneously measured velocity-time data. The velocity-time data were modelled by an exponential equation fitting process and then used to calculate individual F-v profiles and related variables (theoretical maximum velocity, theoretical maximum horizontal force, slope of the linear F-v profile, peak power, time constant tau, and horizontal maximal velocity). The devices were compared by determining the systematic bias and the 95% limits of agreement (random error) for all variables, both of which were expressed as percentages of the mean radar value. All bias values were within 6.32%, with the 1080 Sprint reporting higher values for tau, horizontal maximal velocity, and theoretical maximum velocity. Random error was lowest for velocity-based variables but exceeded 7% for all others, with slope of the F-v profile being greatest at +/- 12.3%. These results provide practitioners with the information necessary to determine if the agreement between the devices and the magnitude of random error is acceptable within the context of their specific application.		[Feser, Erin; Korfist, Christian; Cronin, John] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, AUT Millennium, Private Bag 92006, Auckland 1142, New Zealand; [Feser, Erin] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth Solut, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA; [Lindley, Kyle] Arizona State Univ, Sch Biol & Hlth Syst Engn, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA; [Clark, Kenneth] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA USA; [Bezodis, Neil] Swansea Univ, A STEM Res Ctr, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Feser, Erin] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, AUT Millennium, Private Bag 92006, Auckland 1142, New Zealand								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000751066200001	25	Article; Article		
J	de Jesus, Karla; de Jesus, Kelly; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo								Back plate and wedge use and individual ventral and dorsal swimming start performance: a systematic review								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1634	1658		10.1080/14763141.2021.2016924			DEC 2 2023	2023	Individual starts for ventral and dorsal swimming events have changed. After the introduction of back plate and wedge, some studies (mainly on ventral starts) have aimed to clarify their benefits and optimal application. This systematic review is aimed at a critical appraise of the literature on the main findings for back plate and wedge usage. We explored the databases of PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science and conducted a manual search on the reference list of papers. We based our search on the quality scale of the National Health Institutes and found 25 studies that met the eligibility criteria and that scored 7.75 +/- 1.18 and 8.0 +/- 0.71 on fair-quality studies addressing kick and backstroke starts. Kick start has shown faster start time comparing with grab and track starts by reducing block time and increasing horizontal take-off velocity. Backstroke start using the wedge improved performance through a greater centre of mass vertical position at take-off, horizontal and vertical position at entry and underwater velocity. Swimmers have adopted technical variants of kick and backstroke start by changing block set-up and stance, which should be monitored considering anthropometrics and strength abilities.		[de Jesus, Karla; de Jesus, Kelly; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [de Jesus, Karla; de Jesus, Kelly; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [de Jesus, Karla; de Jesus, Kelly] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [de Jesus, Karla; de Jesus, Kelly] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Motor Behav Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [de Jesus, Karla] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [de Jesus, Karla] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [de Jesus, Karla] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [de Jesus, Karla] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Motor Behav Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000741801000001	33	Article; Article		
J	deWeber, Kevin; Ota, Ken S.; Dye, Cicely								Pre-bout hypertension in the combat sports athlete: clearance recommendations								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	3			210	216		10.1080/00913847.2022.2025468			MAY 4 2023	2023	Hypertension is one of the most prevalent medical disorders in the world and is associated with significant cerebrovascular and cardiovascular morbidity. Pre-bout blood pressure (BP) elevation is extremely common, and ringside physicians must accurately assess the accompanying risk of adverse cerebrovascular and cardiovascular events in the decision to allow participation in combat sports. It is strongly recommended that a ringside physician consider disqualifying a combat sports athlete with severe pre-bout hypertension (systolic BP >= 160 mm Hg and/or diastolic BP >= 100 mm Hg, or stage 2 hypertension in children when indexed by gender, age, and height) from that bout, if it persists despite rest and repeated measurement with accurate equipment. This recommendation is congruent with that of the American College of Sports Medicine, the American College of Cardiology, and the American Heart Association, which recommend non-clearance for sports or exercise testing when BP exceeds those thresholds. Severely elevated BP, as defined above, confers markedly increased risk of morbidity and mortality. Exercise further raises BP markedly. The combination of severely elevated blood pressure and cranial trauma during combat sports is a risk factor for intracranial hemorrhage with a direct impact on the morbidity and mortality associated with ringside combat sports events. Combat sports athletes with SBP >= 130 or DBP >= 90 - and their coaches and families, if available and the athlete consents - should be educated on the causes of hypertension, its acute and chronic risks, and the possible future implications for bout clearance, and the athletes should be referred for evaluation and management.		[deWeber, Kevin] SW Washington Sports Med Fellowship & Family Med, 100 E 33rd St Suite 100, Vancouver, WA 98663 USA; [deWeber, Kevin] Univ Washington, Dept Family Med, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [deWeber, Kevin] Oregon Hlth & Sci Univ, Dept Family Med, Portland, OR USA; [Ota, Ken S.] O Longev & Wellness, Scottsdale, AZ USA; [Dye, Cicely] Jacksonville Naval Hosp, Dept Cardiol, Jacksonville, FL USA; [deWeber, Kevin] SW Washington Sports Med Fellowship & Family Med, 100 E 33rd St Suite 100, Vancouver, WA 98663 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000741848600001	38	Article; Article		
J	Kozinc, Ziga; Smajla, Darjan; Sarabon, Nejc								The reliability of wearable commercial sensors for outdoor assessment of running biomechanics: the effect of surface and running speed								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2330	2343		10.1080/14763141.2021.2022746			NOV 1 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to investigate the reliability of running biomechanics assessment with a wearable commercial sensor (RunScribe (TM)). Participants performed multiple 200-m runs over sand, grass and asphalt ground at the estimated 5-km tempo, with an additional trial with 21-km tempo at the asphalt. Intra-session reliability was excellent for all variables at 5-km pace (intra-class coefficient correlation (ICC) asphalt: 0.90-0.99; macadam: 0.94-1.00; grass: 0.92-1.00), except for shock (good; ICC = 0.83), and contact time and total power output (moderate; ICC = 0.68-0.71). Coefficient of variation (CV) were mostly acceptable in all conditions, except for horizontal ground reaction force (GRF) rate in asphalt 5-km pace trial (CV = 24.5 %), power (CV = 14.3 %) and foot strike type (CV = 30.9 %) in 21-km pace trial, and horizontal GRF rate grass trial (CV = 15.7 %). Inter-session reliability was high or excellent for the majority of the outcomes (ICC >= 0.85). Total power output (ICC = 0.56-0.65) and shock (ICC = 0.67-0.75) showed only moderate reliability across all conditions. Power (CV = 12.5-13.8 %), foot strike type (CV = 14.9-29.4 %) and horizontal ground reaction force rate (CV = 12.4-36.4 %) showed unacceptable CV.		[Kozinc, Ziga; Smajla, Darjan; Sarabon, Nejc] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Izola, Slovenia; [Kozinc, Ziga] Univ Primorska, Andrej Marusic Inst, Koper, Slovenia; [Smajla, Darjan; Sarabon, Nejc] InnoRenew CoE, Human Hlth Dept, Ljubljana, Izola, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Sci Practice Ltd, Lab Motor Control & Motor Behav, S2P, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Izola, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] InnoRenew CoE, Human Hlth Dept, Ljubljana, Izola, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Sci Practice Ltd, Lab Motor Control & Motor Behav, S2P, Ljubljana, Slovenia								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000741768800001	44	Article; Article		
J	Denerel, Nevzad; Lima, Yavuz								Competing against COVID-19: what about the mental health problems of athletes with disabilities?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	6			546	552		10.1080/00913847.2021.2022967			NOV 2 2022	2022	Objectives Although there is growing interest in athletes' mental health (MH), there is a paucity of research exploring MH in athletes with disabilities (AWD). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the psychological state of AWD. Materials and Methods An online survey including demographic questions, SARS-CoV-2-related questions, and standardized scales assessing depression, anxiety, stress, coronavirus anxiety (CAS), and nonspecific psychological distress was distributed to AWD. Results A total of 362 athletes (183 AWD) participated in the study (response rate 31.2%). AWD infected with SARS-CoV-2 reported higher depression, anxiety, and CAS scores than AWD not infected with SARS-CoV-2 (Z = -2.10, ES = 0.15 Z = -3.45, ES = 0.25; Z = -2.43, ES = 0.18; respectively). Female AWD reported higher anxiety scores compared to males (Z = -2.25, ES = 0.16). Depression (Z = -2.80, ES = 0.20), stress (Z = -2.12, ES = 0.15) and K-10 (Z = -2.02, ES = 0.14 scores of individual sport AWD were higher than team sports AWD. Conclusion MH problems in AWD were associated with a wide range of variables such as being infected with SARS-CoV-2, female gender, competing in an individual sport, and having performance concerns. In light of these results, MH assessment should be undertaken for AWD to ensure appropriate and timely intervention.		[Denerel, Nevzad] Eastern Mediterranean Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sports Med Dept, Nicosia, Cyprus; [Lima, Yavuz] Balikesir Ataturk City Hosp, Sports Med Dept, 209 Sok 26, TR-10100 Balikesir, Turkey; [Lima, Yavuz] Balikesir Ataturk City Hosp, Sports Med Dept, 209 Sok 26, TR-10100 Balikesir, Turkey								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000741840500001	43	Article; Article		
J	Cecchin, Alessandro								Oliver's four-factor model: Validation through causality								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			838	847	17479541211049287	10.1177/17479541211049287			AUG 2022	2022	While there has been a growing interest in sports analysis in recent years, much research first focused on a classical statistical approach and later on an artificial intelligence approach. This article aims instead to propose a causal inference approach to sports analysis. In particular, the present article intends to review the famous four-factor model proposed by Dean Oliver for assessing the winning ability of National Basketball Association (NBA) teams through a causal inference approach. A structural equation model is used to validate Oliver's model. The present paper considers the winning percentage and the factors' statistics over entire seasons from 1996 - 1997 to 2020 - 2021 . The statistics for the 2019 - 2020 season are considered only on a subset of the games. This is because the games played in the Orlando bubble under the particular COVID-19 situation have been regarded as outliers compared to the games played in the other NBA seasons, hence they have not been taken into account. The second goal of the article is to analyse if the fitting ability of the four-factor model changes when it is fitted over the pre - 2010 and post - 2010 basketball eras datasets, considering the year - 2010 as the turning point for the NBA playing style.										2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000748658900001	17	Article; Article		
J	Laxdal, Aron; Ivarsson, Andreas								Breaking up the play: The relationship between legal stops and winning in team handball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			240	244	17479541211070787	10.1177/17479541211070787			FEB 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between legal stops and winning in team handball. Real-time analysis was performed on all games played in the Icelandic elite division for both males and females (regular season and playoffs) between 2017-2021 (854 games [570 male games, 284 female games], 32,392 legal stops in total). Legal stops were assessed as any physical action by a defensive player that resulted in the stop of play, without the defensive player being penalized or the offensive player receiving a 7-meter throw. The results from a multinomial logistic regression analysis indicated that legal stops were significantly associated with winning games in the male league. No statistically significant relationship was found between illegal stops and game outcome for either sex. However, 2-minute suspensions were found to be positively associated with winning in the male league.		[Laxdal, Aron; Ivarsson, Andreas] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway; [Ivarsson, Andreas] Halmstad Univ, Ctr Res Welf Hlth & Sport, Halmstad, Sweden; [Laxdal, Aron] Univ Agder, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Kristiansand, Norway								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000748657800001	16	Article; Article		
J	Olivier, Benita; Olivier, Franso-Mari; Mnguni, Nkazimulo; Obiora, Oluchukwu Loveth								Asymmetry in internal oblique muscle thickness: Not the key to a cricket fast bowler's performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1435	1444	17479541211065844	10.1177/17479541211065844			DEC 2022	2022	Purpose Previous studies found that trunk muscle asymmetry may play a role in preventing injury in cricket fast bowlers, while the association with bowling performance has not been investigated. This study aims to describe the side-to-side differences in trunk muscle thickness and determine the association between bowling performance and these side-to-side differences in trunk muscle thickness in adolescent fast bowlers. Methods In this observational cross-sectional study, bowling performance, namely ball release speed and bowling accuracy, was recorded in adolescent fast bowlers. Ultrasound imaging measured external oblique, internal oblique, transversus abdominis and lumbar multifidus muscle thickness. Results Fast bowlers (n = 46) with a mean age of 15.9 (+/- 1.2) years participated. On the non-dominant side, the external oblique and internal oblique at rest were thicker than on the dominant side (external oblique: p = 0.011, effect size = 0.27; internal oblique: p < 0.0001, effect size = 0.40), while the transversus abdominus (p = 0.72, effect size = 0.19) and lumbar multifidus (p = 0.668, effect size = 0.04) were symmetrical. Weak correlations existed between bowling performance and the side-to-side differences in the thickness in all muscles, except for two moderate correlations: 1. The smaller the side-to-side difference in absolute thickness of the external oblique when contracted, the faster the ball release speed (Spearman's (rho) = -0.455, p = 0.002). 2. Also, a smaller side-to-side difference in external oblique contraction ratio (Spearman's (rho) = -0.495, p = 0.0001) was associated with faster ball release speed. Conclusions No relationship between bowling performance and side-to-side differences in internal oblique muscle thickness could be established, while more symmetrical external oblique muscles may be linked to faster ball release speeds.		[Olivier, Benita; Olivier, Franso-Mari; Mnguni, Nkazimulo; Obiora, Oluchukwu Loveth] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Therapeut Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Olivier, Benita; Olivier, Franso-Mari; Obiora, Oluchukwu Loveth] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Therapeut Sci, Wits Cricket Res Hub Sci Med & Rehabil, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Olivier, Benita] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, 7 York Rd, ZA-2193 Johannesburg, South Africa								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000748657600001	41	Article; Article		
J	Fujihara, Toshiyuki								Real -time video and force analysis feedback system for learning strength skills on rings in men's artistic gymnastics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	2			186	194		10.1080/14763141.2021.2024873			FEB 1 2023	2023	The importance of objective evaluations has gathered more attention than before for a fairer and better performance judgment in gymnastics. The purpose of this report was to disseminate information about our system and provide an example of data utilisation in high-level competitive training from a practical standpoint. The system combined video and force data, measured with two force transducers at the top of the ring cables, wirelessly transmitted to a computer. The force data synchronised with the video were available in real time or immediately after trials, making it possible to objectively quantify the amount of spotting that a gymnast received as external physical assistances. The simplicity of the setup and several special functions of the system led athletes and coaches spontaneously to use it in their regular training to quantify their skill level. Based on the regular utilisation of the system, the general correspondence between objectively measured values and the subjective perception of spotters was determined. In addition, the data suggested the possibility of technical evaluation of a certain type of strength skill based on force data. The data that are shared in this report should be beneficial in facilitating activities to integrate science into practice in gymnastics.		[Fujihara, Toshiyuki] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Osaka, Japan; [Fujihara, Toshiyuki] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Osaka, Japan								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000740897900001	9	Article; Article		
J	Friede, Miriam C.; Innerhofer, Gunnar; Fink, Christian; Alegre, Luis M.; Csapo, Robert								Conservative treatment of iliotibial band syndrome in runners: Are we targeting the right goals?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				54				44	52		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.12.006			MAR 2022	2022	Objective: Iliotibial band syndrome (ITBS) is presumably caused by excessive tension in the iliotibial band (ITB) leading to compression and inflammation of tissues lying beneath it. Usually managed conservatively, there is a lack of scientific evidence supporting the treatment recommendations, and high symptom recurrence rates cast doubt on their causal effectiveness. This review discusses the influence of common physiotherapeutic measures on risk factors contributing to tissue compression beneath the ITB. Methods: The potential pathogenic factors are presented on the basis of a simple biomechanical model showing the forces acting on the lateral aspect of the knee. Existent literature on the most commonly prescribed physiotherapeutic interventions is critically discussed against the background of this model. Practical recommendations for the optimization of physiotherapy are derived. Results: According to biomechanical considerations, ITBS may be promoted by anatomical predisposition, joint malalignments, aberrant activation of inserting muscles as well as excessive ITB stiffness. Hip abductor strengthening may correct excessive hip adduction but also increase ITB strain. Intermittent stretching interventions are unlikely to change the ITB's length or mechanical properties. Running retraining is a promising yet understudied intervention. Conclusions: High-quality research directly testing different physiotherapeutic treatment approaches in randomized controlled trials is needed. (c) 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Friede, Miriam C.] Carinthia Univ Appl Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Klagenfurt, Austria; [Innerhofer, Gunnar] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Fink, Christian] Gelenkpunkt Sports & Joint Surg, Innsbruck, Austria; [Fink, Christian] Univ Hlth Sci Med Informat & Technol, Res Unit Orthopaed Sports Med & Injury Prevent, Hall In Tirol, Austria; [Alegre, Luis M.] Univ Castilla La Mancha, GENUD Toledo Res Grp, Toledo, Spain; [Alegre, Luis M.] CIBER Frailty & Hlth Aging CIBERFES, Madrid, Spain; [Csapo, Robert] Univ Vienna, Dept Sport Sci, Vienna, Austria; [Friede, Miriam C.] Univ Appl Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, St Veiter Str 47, A-9020 Klagenfurt, Austria								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000763559900006	97	Article; Article		
J	Luchesi, Marcelo S.; Couto, Bruno P.; Gabbett, Tim J.; Praca, Gibson M.; Oliveira, Mariana P.; Sayers, Mark G. L.								The influence of the field orientation on physical demands in soccer small-sided games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			143	151	17479541211068830	10.1177/17479541211068830			FEB 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to compare the physical demands of SSG with either greater length (SSG(length)) or width (SSG(width)) with official soccer matches. Sixteen Brazilian U-20 national-level soccer players participated in two sessions with SSG(length) (4v4, 40 m length and 26 m width) and two sessions with SSG(width) (4v4, 26 m length and 40 m width). External and internal load variables were monitored and compared to official games (12.8 +/- 8.9 games per player). Data were standardized to the time and compared between the experimental conditions by a one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with repeated measures (level of significance set at p < 0.05). The effect size was calculated by the partial ETA squared (eta p2). Results showed that the total distance covered during SSG(length) was significantly higher compared to official matches (8.1%; p = 0.001) and SSG(width) (5.2%; p = 0.049). Highest values were registered in the matches when compared to SSG(length) and SSG(width) for high-speed distance, sprint distance, maximal speed and number of sprints. The number of accelerations was significantly lower during official matches than SSG(width) (36.5%; p = 0.002) and SSG(length) (45.0%; p < 0.001). The number of high-speed actions was higher in official games when compared to SSG(width) (47.1%; p < 0.001). No differences were found between matches and SSG(length) (p = 0.059). We concluded that the physical demands of the 4v4 SSGs adopted in this study were different from the physical demands of official match play. The use of a field with a greater width rather than length does not appear to make the physical demands of the SSG more similar to the official games.		[Luchesi, Marcelo S.; Praca, Gibson M.; Oliveira, Mariana P.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Terapia Ocupac, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Couto, Bruno P.; Sayers, Mark G. L.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth & Behav Sci, 90 Sippy Downs Dr, Sippy Downs, Qld 4556, Australia; [Gabbett, Tim J.] Gabbett Performance Solut, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Gabbett, Tim J.] Univ Southern Queensland, Ctr Hlth Res, Ipswich, Qld, Australia; [Couto, Bruno P.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth & Behav Sci, 90 Sippy Downs Dr, Sippy Downs, Qld 4556, Australia								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000746534500001	30	Article; Article		
J	Fairbank, Matthew; Highton, Jamie; Daniels, Matthew; Twist, Craig								The content and load of preseason field-based training in a championship-winning professional rugby league team: A case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1445	1454	17479541211064872	10.1177/17479541211064872			DEC 2022	2022	This study reports on the content and periodisation of the preseason field-based training for a professional rugby league team. Thirty professional male rugby league players (26 +/- 5 years, 180.9 +/- 6.5 cm, 94 +/- 9 kg) completed an 8-week preseason. Global positioning system devices and heart rate were used to monitor physical and physiological responses of different field-based training components (speed, conditioning, rugby skill and game-based training). Rugby skill training contributed the most to the total distance covered, conditioning was the greatest contributor to high-speed running (>15 km/h) and game-based training provided the greatest high metabolic distance (>20 W/kg) and overall external load. Game-based training provided the greatest time with heart rate >= 80% estimated maximum. The weekly preseason cycle had lower loads on Monday and Thursday whereas Tuesday and Friday produced the highest loads. The preseason described herein adopted a progressive overload comprising a weekly undulating cycle. This study emphasises how skill and games-based training contributes significantly to the overall load of a professional rugby league team's preseason with more traditional conditioning promoting high-speed running load and high metabolic load.		[Fairbank, Matthew; Highton, Jamie; Twist, Craig] Univ Chester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Parkgate Rd, Chester CH1 4BJ, Cheshire, England; [Fairbank, Matthew; Daniels, Matthew] St Helens RFC, Cowley Training Ctr, St Helens, England; [Twist, Craig] Univ Chester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Parkgate Rd, Chester CH1 4BJ, Cheshire, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000740790000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Semmelroth, Dirk; Frick, Bernd; Simmons, Robert; Sung, Hojun								Where to Go Next? Examining the Effect of Franchise Expansion and Location on Game-Level Attendance in Major League Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	5			524	547	15270025211067795	10.1177/15270025211067795			JUN 2022	2022	Using a large dataset with over 4,000 game-level observations from Major League Soccer over the period 2006 to 2019 we investigate the determinants of attendance demand. Focusing on franchise expansion and location effects, we find that some decisions made by the organization had positive impacts on league revenues. While going to cities with a large population and already hosting nearby NFL or NBA teams is positively associated with game attendance, the presence of geographically close MLB and NHL teams is detrimental to MLS revenues. Our results suggest a need for a more nuanced and selective approach to MLS expansion policy.		[Semmelroth, Dirk; Frick, Bernd] Paderborn Univ, Management Dept, Warburger Str 100, D-33098 Paderborn, Germany; [Simmons, Robert] Univ Lancaster, Dept Econ, Management Sch, Lancaster, England; [Sung, Hojun] Incheon Natl Univ, Div Hlth & Kinesiol, Incheon, South Korea; [Semmelroth, Dirk] Paderborn Univ, Management Dept, Warburger Str 100, D-33098 Paderborn, Germany								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000740769100001	41	Article; Article		
J	Harvey, Stephen; Gano-Overway, Lori; Baghurst, Timothy; Blom, Lindsey; Eisenmann, Joey								50 Million Strong<SUP>TM</SUP>: The Contribution of Sports Coaching								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	2			310	321		10.1080/02701367.2021.1976715			APR 3 2023	2023	In 2015, the Society of Health and Physical Educators of America (SHAPE America) launched 50 Million Strong(TM) with goals of improving physical literacy, increasing physical activity levels, and encouraging lifelong physical activity among children by the year 2029. Not only are youth sports programs crucial to meeting 50 Million Strong(TM) goals, but it also requires the purposeful efforts of sport coaches, program administrators, researchers, coach educators, and coach developers. While it is encouraging that research on sport coaching topics appears to be growing, there is still much to learn about how to prepare coaches to provide quality sport experiences for their athletes. Consequently, to further this call, it is crucial to understand the current state of sports coaching research and propose future research needs in the discipline. The purpose of this paper is to identify research needs in sports coaching and coach education/development that assists in achieving the 50 Million Strong(TM) goals of SHAPE America. Throughout the paper, critical research questions are identified in two main areas: 1) coaches' roles in developing physically literate athletes, and 2) developing coaches in regards to coach learning, the efficacy of coach education, and coach health and well-being. Furthermore, commensurate with other papers in the series commissioned by the SHAPE America Research Consortium, we discuss these areas within a social ecological model to understand the impact of the bi-directional interactions between environmental factors and individual behaviors.		[Harvey, Stephen] Ohio Univ, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Gano-Overway, Lori] James Madison Univ, Harrisonburg, VA 22807 USA; [Baghurst, Timothy] Florida State Univ, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Blom, Lindsey] Ball State Univ, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Eisenmann, Joey] Univ Nebraska, Kearney, NE USA; [Harvey, Stephen] Ohio Univ, Dept Recreat & Sport Pedag, Room 202N McCracken Hall,100 E Union St, Athens, OH 45701 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000738522600001	97	Article; Article		
J	Maschke, Benjamin; Palmsten, Allison; Nelson, Evan O.; Obermeier, Michael C.; Reams, Megan; Heiderscheit, Bryan; Russell, Hayley; Chmielewski, Terese L.								Injury-related psychological distress and the association with perceived running ability in injured runners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				54				36	43		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.12.005			MAR 2022	2022	Objective: Examine injury-related psychological distress and association with perceived running ability in injured runners. Design: Prospective longitudinal study. Participants: Forty-three patients with a running-related injury. Main outcome measures: Data collection at initial physical therapy visit and 12-16 weeks later included Optimal Screening for Prediction of Referral and Outcome -Yellow Flag (OSPRO-YF) and Athlete Fear Avoidance Questionnaire (AFAQ) for injury-related psychological distress, and University of Wisconsin Running and Recovery Index (UWRI) for perceived running ability. OSPRO-YF composite score, total yellow flags, and yellow flags in each domain (negative mood, fear-avoidance, positive affect/coping) were calculated. Results: UWRI score and OSPRO-YF composite score and yellow flags significantly improved over time, while AFAQ score and yellow flags in OSPRO-YF negative mood domain did not. AFAQ scores were significantly correlated with UWRI score at baseline, follow-up and change over time, while OSPRO-YF composite score and yellow flags were not. Baseline OSPRO-YF composite score and AFAQ score were not correlated with follow-up UWRI score. Conclusions: Injury-related psychological distress is elevated when injured runners start rehabilitation, and generally improves; however, negative mood and athletic fear-avoidance may persist. Higher athletic fear-avoidance is associated with lower perceived running ability at the same time point or interval.		[Maschke, Benjamin; Palmsten, Allison; Obermeier, Michael C.; Reams, Megan; Chmielewski, Terese L.] TRIA Orthoped Ctr, 8100 Northland Dr, Bloomington, MN 55431 USA; [Nelson, Evan O.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Family Med & Community Hlth, 4190 Med Sci Ctr,1300 Univ Ave, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Heiderscheit, Bryan] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, 685 Highland Ave,MFCB 1636, Madison, WI 53705 USA; [Russell, Hayley] Gustavus Adolphus Coll, 800 W Coll Ave, St Peter, MN 56082 USA; [Maschke, Benjamin] TRIA Orthoped Ctr, 8100 Northland Dr, Bloomington, MN 55431 USA								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000763559900005	46	Article; Article		
J	Farhat, Jade; Deck, Sarah; Mitchell, Marc; Hall, Craig; Law, Barbi; Gregg, Melanie; Pope, J. Paige; Ferguson, Kendra Nelson								If you build it, will they come? Assessing coaches' perceptions of a sport psychology website								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			490	499	17479541211066382	10.1177/17479541211066382			JUN 2022	2022	Sport psychology has become widely applied in coaching practices to assist in athletic success. Despite the increased use, there is a lack of evidence-based sport psychology information available to coaches in the form of informal sources. The aim of this study was to conduct a pilot test to explore coaches' perceptions and use of an evidence-based sport psychology website. Eight coaches participated in semi-structured interviews. Based on engagement, five of the coaches' data was analyzed using thematic analysis on their experiences and revealed two main themes, website use and website enhancements. The remaining three coaches' data was analyzed for their reasons for having limited engagement with the website and used to help identify ways it could be enhanced. In general, coaches perceived the website to be a reliable source that offered practical information (e.g. worksheets) that could be used directly with athletes, and was perceived as easy to navigate and to access information. There were, importantly, various improvements suggested for the website including delivery modality and guides for navigating the order for reading the information. This study offers evidence on the value of online resources in providing coaches with informal and evidence-based sport psychology learning opportunities, and also addresses a number of barriers to engagement as insight for website developers.		[Farhat, Jade; Deck, Sarah; Mitchell, Marc; Hall, Craig; Ferguson, Kendra Nelson] Western Univ, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON, Canada; [Deck, Sarah] Univ Alberta, Dept Med, 1-126 Li Ka Shing Ctr Hlth Res Innovat, Edmonton, AB T6G 2R3, Canada; [Law, Barbi] Nipissing Univ, Sch Phys & Hlth Educ, North Bay, ON, Canada; [Gregg, Melanie] Univ Winnipeg, Kinesiol & Appl Hlth, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Pope, J. Paige] Univ Lethbridge, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Lethbridge, AB, Canada; [Ferguson, Kendra Nelson] Western Univ, Dept Geog & Environm, Human Environm Anal Lab, London, ON, Canada; [Deck, Sarah] Univ Alberta, Dept Med, 1-126 Li Ka Shing Ctr Hlth Res Innovat, Edmonton, AB T6G 2R3, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000740788200001	42	Article; Article		
J	van Biemen, T.; Oudejans, R. R. D.; Savelsbergh, G. J. P.; Zwenk, F.; Mann, D. L.								Into the Eyes of the Referee: A Comparison of Elite and Sub-Elite Football Referees' On-Field Visual Search Behaviour when making Foul Judgements								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				18	1			78	90	17479541211069469	10.1177/17479541211069469			FEB 2023	2023	In foul decision-making by football referees, visual search is important for gathering task-specific information to determine whether a foul has occurred. Yet, little is known about the visual search behaviours underpinning excellent on-field decisions. The aim of this study was to examine the on-field visual search behaviour of elite and sub-elite football referees when calling a foul during a match. In doing so, we have also compared the accuracy and gaze behaviour for correct and incorrect calls. Elite and sub-elite referees (elite: N = 5, M-age +/- SD = 29.8 +/- 4.7yrs, M-experience +/- SD = 14.8 +/- 3.7yrs; sub-elite: N = 9, M-age +/- SD = 23.1 +/- 1.6yrs, M-experience +/- SD = 8.4 +/- 1.8yrs) officiated an actual football game while wearing a mobile eye-tracker, with on-field visual search behaviour compared between skill levels when calling a foul (N-elite = 66; Nsub-elite = 92). Results revealed that elite referees relied on a higher search rate (more fixations of shorter duration) compared to sub-elites, but with no differences in where they allocated their gaze, indicating that elites searched faster but did not necessarily direct gaze towards different locations. Correct decisions were associated with higher gaze entropy (i.e. less structure). In relying on more structured gaze patterns when making incorrect decisions, referees may fail to pick-up information specific to the foul situation. Referee development programmes might benefit by challenging the speed of information pickup but by avoiding pre-determined gaze patterns to improve the interpretation of fouls and increase the decision-making performance of referees.		[van Biemen, T.; Oudejans, R. R. D.; Savelsbergh, G. J. P.; Mann, D. L.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van Biemen, T.; Oudejans, R. R. D.; Savelsbergh, G. J. P.; Mann, D. L.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Inst Brain & Behav Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van Biemen, T.; Zwenk, F.] Royal Dutch Football Assoc KNVB, Zeist, Netherlands; [Oudejans, R. R. D.; Savelsbergh, G. J. P.] Amsterdam Univ Appl Sci, Fac Sports & Nutr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van Biemen, T.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Gedrags Bewegingswetenschappen, Van Boechorststr 7, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000740787600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Pelissier, Lena; Ennequin, Gael; Bagot, Sarah; Pereira, Bruno; Lacheze, Thomas; Duclos, Martine; Thivel, David; Miles-Chan, Jennifer; Isacco, Laurie								Lightest weight-class athletes are at higher risk of weight regain: results from the French-Rapid Weight Loss Questionnaire								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	2			144	152		10.1080/00913847.2021.2014285			MAR 4 2023	2023	Context: Rapid weight loss (RWL) is a common precompetitive strategy used by athletes in weight-class sports and carries with it an increased risk to future cardiometabolic health. The Rapid Weight Loss Questionnaire (RWLQ) is a self-reported tool designed to identify and characterize such weight loss practices. Objectives: After developing a reliable and reproducible French version of the RWLQ (RWLQ-FR), the present study aims to analyse RWL patterns among French weight-class athletes and to point out potential relationships between such practices and risk of subsequent weight gain. Methods: A test-retest analysis was performed in 54 athletes to test the questionnaire reproducibility before applying it in a cohort of 168 weight-cycling athletes (23.78 +/- 9.25 y, 67.6 +/- 12.6 kg, 81 males and 87 females, n = 24 strength sports and n = 144 various combat sports). Results: The test-retest showed good agreement of the RWLQ-FR (Rho = 0.794, [0.696-0.893]). Athletes reported losing an average of 4.1 +/- 2.9% of their initial weight in 13.1 +/- 9.6 days, with the main methods used being an increase in exercise, training in rubber or plastic suits, and gradual dieting. The average weight recovery in a week was 3.5 +/- 2.8% and results showed that the athletes with the lower inter-season weight (weight outside of the training and competition season) regained the more weight (p = 0.025). The average RWLQ-FR score was 31.9 +/- 17.3 and athletes who began to lose weight earlier in their competitive carrier had the higher scores (p = 0.032). Conclusion: The present study demonstrates relationships between the pattern of RWL practices and potential increased risk of subsequent weight gain in weight-cycling athletes, and the need to better understand the long-term health-related risks.		[Pelissier, Lena; Ennequin, Gael; Bagot, Sarah; Lacheze, Thomas; Thivel, David; Isacco, Laurie] Clermont Auvergne Univ, Lab Metab Adaptat Exercise Physiol & Pathol Condi, Crnh Auvergne, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Pereira, Bruno] Clermont Ferrand Univ Hosp, Unit Biostat DRCI, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Duclos, Martine] Univ Hosp Chu Clermont Ferrand, Hosp G Montpied, Dept Sport Med & Funct Explorat, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Miles-Chan, Jennifer] Univ Auckland, Sch Biol Sci, Human Nutr Unit, Auckland, New Zealand; [Pelissier, Lena] Clermont Auvergne Univ, Ea 3533, Lab Metab Adaptat Exercise Physiol & Pathol Condi, CRNH Auvergne, 3 Rue La Chebarde, F-63170 Aubiere, France								18							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000739208100001	49	Article; Article		
J	de Villarreal, Eduardo Saez; Byrne, Paul J.; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo								Change of Direction Ability as a Sensitive Marker of Adaptation to Different Training Configurations, and Different Populations: Results from Four Experiments								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				85	1			63	+		10.2478/hukin-2022-0110			2022	2022	This article includes four separate experiments. In the first experiment male beach handball players (n = 24) were randomly assigned to regular training (n = 12) or plyometric and sprint training (n = 12). In the second experiment, male players were assigned to a handball practice only (n = 12), a plyometric training (n = 12), or an eccentric-overload (e.g., versa-pulley machine) training group (n = 12). In the third experiment, participants were assigned to padel training (n = 12) or specific on-court neuromuscular technical actions (n = 12). In the fourth experiment, females between 50-59 years (n = 25), 60-64 years (n = 25), and 65-70 years (n = 25) completed 10 weeks of bench stepping training involving jumps, and were compared to age-matched controls (n = 45). The COD ability was assessed with the 10-m COD ability test (experiments one and two), the COD ability test with 90o and 180o turns (third experiment), and with the timed-up-and-go test (fourth experiment). In experiment one, greater COD improvement was noted in the experimental group compared to the control group (p < 0.05). In experiment two, both intervention groups similarly improved COD when compared to the control group (p < 0.05). In experiment three, although no significant group-time interactions were observed for COD, the experimental group improved all COD measures pre-post-training (p < 0.05), with a larger effect size for COD with 180 & DEG; turn to the right compared to the control group (effect size = 0.8 vs. 0.3). In experiment four, the three training groups improved COD ability compared to the control group (p < 0.05). In conclusion, COD is a sensitive marker of adaptation to different training configurations in these diverse groups.		[de Villarreal, Eduardo Saez] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance Sports Res Ctr PPSRC, Seville 41704, Spain; [Byrne, Paul J.] South East Technol Univ, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Kilkenny Rd Campus, Carlow R93 V960, Ireland; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Andres Bello, Exercise & Rehabil Sci Inst, Fac Rehabil Sci, Sch Phys Therapy, Santiago 7591538, Chile; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Andres Bello, Exercise & Rehabil Sci Inst, Fac Rehabil Sci, Sch Phys Therapy, Campus Casona,Fernandez Concha 700, Santiago 7591538, Chile; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Andres Bello, Exercise & Rehabil Sci Inst, Fac Rehabil Sci, Sch Phys Therapy, Campus Casona,Fernandez Concha 700, Santiago 7591538, Chile								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000906774700006	44	Article; Article		
J	Perez-Ifran, Pablo; Rial, Maximiliano; Brini, Seifeddine; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio; Del Rosso, Sebastian; Boullosa, Daniel; Benitez-Flores, Stefano								Change of Direction Performance and its Physical Determinants Among Young Basketball Male Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				85	1			23	34		10.2478/hukin-2022-0107			2022	2022	The main aim of the present study was to examine the effects of the age group (U-15, U-17 and U-19) on change of direction (COD) performance and its specific physical determinants among young basketball male players. Thirty-one young male basketball players (13-18 years) volunteered to participate in this study. The sample was divided into 3 age groups (U-15, U-17, U-19). All the evaluations were carried out in the same order in 3 sessions as follows: 1) body composition, self-reported sexual maturation, COD performance, and intermittent endurance capacity; 2) reactive strength index (RSI), 15-m sprint, and repeated sprint ability (RSA) test; 3) vertical and horizontal jumps and lower-limb strength. The results showed significant differences between groups for age, sexual maturation, endurance capacity, horizontal and vertical jump performances, RSI, COD, RSA, and lower-limb strength (p < 0.05). Significant correlations were identified between COD performances and some physical determinants such as jumping ability and RSA performance (-0.43 < r < 0.85; p <= 0.05). In conclusion, there are age effects on COD performance and its specific physical determinants among young basketball male players. The associations between COD performance and its determinants should be considered by practitioners when programing athletic talent development for this population.		[Perez-Ifran, Pablo; Rial, Maximiliano; Benitez-Flores, Stefano] Univ Republica, Higher Inst Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Hlth, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Brini, Seifeddine] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sports & Phys Educ Kef, Res Unit, Sport Performance & Phys Rehabil, Jendouba, Tunisia; [Brini, Seifeddine] Univ Carthage, Fac Sci Bizerte, Zarzouna, Tunisia; [Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Vitoria, Spain; [Del Rosso, Sebastian] Univ Nacl Cordoba, Fac Ciencias Med, Ctr Invest Nutr Humana, Escuela Nutr, Cordoba, Argentina; [Boullosa, Daniel] Univ Fed Mato Grosso do Sul, Integrated Inst Hlth, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil; [Boullosa, Daniel] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Boullosa, Daniel] iLOAD Solut, Res & Dev Dept, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil; [Brini, Seifeddine] High Inst Sports & Phys Educ Kef, Sport Performance & Phys Rehabil, Res Unit, Kef, Tunisia								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000906774700003	51	Article; Article		
J	Vuong, Jo-Lam; Edel, Antonia; Voss, Paul; Ferrauti, Alexander								Effectiveness and Kinematic Analysis of Initial Step Patterns for Multidirectional Acceleration in Team and Racquet Sports								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				85	1			13	22		10.2478/hukin-2022-0106			2022	2022	The ability for quick multidirectional accelerations is crucial for athletic performance in team and racquet sports. So far, there has been little research dedicated to different initial step patterns usually applied by players. Therefore, the present study investigated the kinematic characteristics and effectiveness of the following step patterns: Jab Step (JS), Pivot Step (PS), Gravity Step (GS) and Counter Step (CS). Twenty-two male competitive team and racquet sport athletes completed maximum lateral accelerations utilizing the step patterns. Following familiarization with each step pattern, three 5 m sprints (5 m STs) into both directions (left & right) were completed. Sprint times, the translation of the center of mass (CoM) and joint angles were obtained using three-dimensional motion analysis. 5 m STs of the CS were faster compared to the GS and PS for both directions. A detailed distance-time analysis revealed that for shorter distances only the JS was faster than the GS. Regarding the sequence in which the maximum angular velocities (max. (sic) ) in the hip, the knee, and the ankle were reached during the push off, there was a proximal-to-distal sequence for the JS and the CS, but a distal-to proximal sequence for the GS and the PS. The results reveal that the JS and the CS are superior for accelerations towards the lateral direction. Specifically, they indicate that the JS is more suitable for covering very short distances and the CS is superior for covering further distances. In addition, the distal to-proximal sequence of max. (sic)during the push-off in the GS and the PS might indicate lower kinematic efficiency.		[Vuong, Jo-Lam; Edel, Antonia; Voss, Paul; Ferrauti, Alexander] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Training & Exercise Sci, Bochum, Germany; [Vuong, Jo-Lam] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Training & Exercise Sci, Bochum, Germany								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000906774700002	30	Article; Article		
J	Slavicek, Tobias; Stastny, Petr; Roczniok, Robert; Musalek, Martin								Lower Limb Skeletal Robustness Determines the Change of Directional Speed Performance in Youth Ice Hockey								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				85	1			75	85		10.2478/hukin-2022-0111			2022	2022	The factors that influence the on-ice change of directional speed (COD) of ice hockey players remain unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to determine which off-ice and anthropometric variables determine hockey COD with and without a puck. Thirty-two elite ice hockey players (age: 17.64 +/- 1.02 years, body height: 180 +/- 7.5 cm, body mass: 76.4 +/- 7.8 kg) performed squat jumps, broad jumps, countermovement jumps, and pull-ups and were assessed on agility office and on-ice, with and without a puck. Anthropometric characteristics were determined according to the modified somatotype method. A moderate correlation (r = 0.59-0.6) was observed among all agility tests, between on-ice agility with a puck and lower limb skeletal robustness (r = 0.45), and between on-ice agility with a puck and sit-and-reach scores (r = -0.50). Agility without a puck correlated with squat jump height (r = -0.36). Multiple regression analysis indicated that off-ice agility (beta = 0.51) and skeletal robustness of the lower limbs (beta = 0.35) determined (R-2 = 0.41) on ice agility with a puck. Players' COD was assessed by Illinois tests of agility off-ice and on-ice, with and without a puck; each of these tests moderately predicted the others, but differed in their physical constraints. Players with higher skeletal robustness used more strength and power to achieve COD performance, while players with lower skeletal robustness used techniques and skills to achieve COD, resulting in superior COD performance with a puck compared to stronger athletes. CODs with and without a puck are discrete skills requiring different abilities.		[Slavicek, Tobias; Stastny, Petr; Musalek, Martin] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Roczniok, Robert] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sports Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000906774700007	56	Article; Article		
J	Fasold, Frowin; Braun, Alexander; Klatt, Stefanie								Effects of Arm Dominance and Decision Demands on Change of Direction Performance in Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				85	1			127	135		10.2478/hukin-2022-0116			2022	2022	This field study investigated the effect of unilateral dominance (handedness of players) on the change of direction speed in a specific cutting manoeuvre with a ball (in the direction of the throwing arm vs. against the direction of the throwing arm) in team handball. In addition, the effect of a cutting manoeuvre in response to an immediate stimulus compared to one planned in advance on the movement speed was analysed. Forty participants (22 male, 18 female, Mage 23 years) performed change of direction actions to the left and the right side (the direction of the throwing arm vs. against the direction of the throwing arm) under planned and reactive (light as visual stimuli) conditions. Change of direction speed was measured post-hoc by video-analyses. The results showed two effects. First, the decision demand in reaction to a visual stimulus reduced the speed in the change of direction compared to the planned action. Second, participants performed their action faster in the direction of the throwing arm than against it. The results replicate the effects of decision demands of previous studies and regardless of the reaction to the stimuli being unspecific, further studies could investigate if specific training can reduce the speed loss due to decision demands. The lateral speed differences of cutting manoeuvres of handball players have been analysed for the first time in this study. This effect could have several causes (e.g., coordination, power, motivation) which should be investigated in future studies in more detail.		[Fasold, Frowin; Braun, Alexander; Klatt, Stefanie] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany; [Fasold, Frowin] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000906774700012	25	Article; Article		
J	Zwierko, Michal; Jedziniak, Wojciech; Popowczak, Marek; Rokita, Andrzej								Reactive Agility in Competitive Young Volleyball Players: A Gender Comparison of Perceptual-Cognitive and Motor Determinants								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				85	1			87	96		10.2478/hukin-2022-0112			2022	2022	Limited evidence is available providing specific details about the perceptual-cognitive and motor factors that contribute to reactive agility (RA) and variations between genders in young athletes. The aim of the study was to investigate perceptual-cognitive and motor determinants of RA in competitive youth volleyball players. A total of 135 volleyball players (61 males, 74 females) aged 16-18 years were included in this study. The independent variables were as follows: explosive strength, maximal frequency of movements, simple and complex reaction time, selective attention, sensory sensitivity, and saccadic dynamics. Multiple linear regression analyses showed that explosive strength (ss = 0.494; p < 0.001) and complex reaction time (ss = 0.225; p = 0.054) accounted for 23% of the variance in RA performance in male players. The best exploratory model for RA contributed 34.5% of the variance in RA for female players with significant determinants of explosive strength (ss =-0.387; p < 0.001), sensory sensitivity (ss =-0.326; p = 0.001) and selective attention (ss = 0.229; p = 0.020). Male athletes obtained better results in RA, in all motor tests (effect size of 0.88 to 2.58) and in five variables of perceptual-cognitive skills (effect size of 0.35 to 0.98). Motor and perceptual-cognitive components significantly contributed to performance in RA in competitive youth volleyball players. Gender differentiates between players' RA performance, motor properties and saccadic dynamics to a large extent, while the remaining analyzed perceptual-cognitive components vary between female and male players to a small and moderate extent.		[Zwierko, Michal; Popowczak, Marek; Rokita, Andrzej] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Team Sports Games, Wroclaw, Poland; [Jedziniak, Wojciech] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Szczecin, Poland; [Zwierko, Michal] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Team Sports Games, Wroclaw, Poland								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000906774700008	32	Article; Article		
J	Konefal, Marek; Chmura, Jan; Zacharko, Michal; Zajac, Tomasz; Chmura, Pawel								The Relationship among Acceleration, Deceleration and Changes of Direction in Repeated Small Sided Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				85	1			96	103		10.2478/hukin-2022-0113			2022	2022	The change of direction (COD) ability is perhaps the most significant fitness component in team sport games. One of the best ways to develop COD as well as other components of the game in soccer is the regular inclusion of small sided games (SSGs) in the training process. Therefore, the aim of this research was to determine changes in physiological and kinematic variables in repeated SSGs in youth soccer players. Additionally, we investigated the relationship between selected IMA variables such as acceleration, deceleration and changes of direction. Participants included sixteen U17 soccer players from a 2(nd) league professional team with a high aerobic capacity. The study design involved six 3-min 4 x 4 SSGs with goalkeepers and with a 3-min rest interval between games, during two training sessions played on a field of 25 x 35 m. The results showed that the intervention protocol consisting of repeated SSGs generated an intensity below the anaerobic threshold. This allowed for the maintenance of all variables (Heart Rate, Total Distance Covered, Velocity, Acceleration, Deceleration, Change of Direction) at a similar level throughout the subsequent six SSGs. The analysis revealed that in the six SSGs, players performed the most Acc and Dec, then COD Right and the least COD Left. From the third game on, a decrease in the number of COD Right was noticed. We hypothesized that progressive neuromuscular fatigue on the dominant side caused a more symmetrical trend in COD.		[Konefal, Marek; Chmura, Jan; Zacharko, Michal] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Human Motor Skills, Wroclaw, Poland; [Zajac, Tomasz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Human Performance Lab, Katowice, Poland; [Chmura, Pawel] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Team Games, Wroclaw, Poland; [Chmura, Pawel] Latvian Acad Sport Educ, Riga, Latvia; [Chmura, Pawel] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Team Games, I J Paderewskiego 35, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland; [Chmura, Pawel] Wroclaw Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Dept Team Games, I J Paderewskiego 35, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000906774700009	30	Article; Article		
J	Lazic, Anja; Andrasic, Slobodan; Stankovic, Mima; Milanovic, Zoran; Trajkovic, Nebojsa								Change of Direction Deficit: A Promising Method to Measure a Change of Direction Ability in Adolescent Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				85	1			1	11		10.2478/hukin-2022-0105			2022	2022	The aims of this study were to determine the relationship between vertical jumping performance, linear speed, change of direction speed (CODs) time and the COD deficit (CODD) in adolescent basketball players and to analyze the CODD between faster and slower players based on linear speed performance. Thirty-eight male basketball players (age: 15.47 +/- 0.51 years; body height: 185.19 +/- 5.67 cm; body mass: 71.87 +/- 7.29 kg) completed countermovement jumps (CMJ) with and without an arm swing, squat jumps (SJs), linear sprints at 20 m with split times at 5 and 10 m, the pro-agility test and the zig-zag tests. Furthermore, the CODD was calculated as the difference between the 20 m linear speed result and CODs time in both COD tests. Pearson and Spearman analyses were used to determine the correlations between power-speed-related variables and the CODD. Moreover, independent t-tests and Cohen's d effect size (ES) were used to analyze the differences between the faster and slower players in the CODD. Moderate to strong significant negative correlations were observed between the CODD in the pro-agility test and linear speed at 5 m, 10 m, and 20 m (r = -0.55 to -0.46), while moderate negative significant correlation was found between the zig-zag CODD and SJs (r = -0.37) as well as small positive significant correlation between the CODD in the zig-zag test and the eccentric utilization ratio (EUR) (r = 0.23). Additionally, faster basketball players displayed significantly higher CODD values performing the pro-agility test. In summary, these findings underline the complexity of COD performance and the importance of remodeling traditional training programs in basketball players.		[Lazic, Anja; Stankovic, Mima; Milanovic, Zoran; Trajkovic, Nebojsa] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Carnojeviceva 10a, Nish 18000, Serbia; [Andrasic, Slobodan; Milanovic, Zoran] Univ Novi Sad, Fac Econ, Novi Sad 24000, Serbia; [Milanovic, Zoran] Sci & Res Ctr Koper, Koper, Slovenia; Masaryk Univ, Fac Sports Studies, Kinanthropol Res, Brno, Czech Republic; [Trajkovic, Nebojsa] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Carnojeviceva 10a, Nish 18000, Serbia								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000906774700001	56	Article; Article		
J	Saki, Farzaneh; Romiani, Hosnieh; Ziya, Marziyeh; Gheidi, Naghmeh								The effects of gluteus medius and tibialis anterior kinesio taping on postural control, knee kinematics, and knee proprioception in female athletes with dynamic knee valgus								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				84	90		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.11.010			JAN 2022	2022	Objectives: This study aimed to investigate the effects of Kinesio taping on postural control, kinematics, and knee proprioception in female athletes with dynamic knee valgus (DKV). Design: a single-blind randomized clinical trial. Participants: 40 female athletes between the age of 18 and 28 years with DKV in single-leg drop landing (>13 degrees) participated in this study. They were randomly classified into the Kinesio taping (KT) and placebo control (PC) groups. Main outcome measures: All the evaluations and measurements were performed on each subject in the pre-test and post-test stages (with an interval of 72 h). The dynamic balance (Y balance test), proprioception (Knee position sense error), and knee kinematics (flexion and DKV angles) of the subjects were measured, prior and post gluteus medius and tibialis anterior KT. Results: The results of study demonstrate that the DKV angle and knee position sense error significantly decreased and YBT increased in the KT group from pre-test to post-test (p < 0.05). Nevertheless, there was no significant difference in knee flexion angle (p > 0.05). Conclusion: The results of the present study indicated that KT improves dynamic balance and proprioception and reduces the DKV angle. Therefore, KT is recommended for female athletes with DKV. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Saki, Farzaneh; Romiani, Hosnieh; Ziya, Marziyeh] Bu Ali Sina Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Sport Injury & Correct Exercises, Hamadan, Iran; [Gheidi, Naghmeh] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Saki, Farzaneh] Bu Ali Sina Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Sport Injury & Correct Exercises, Hamadan, Iran								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000012	40	Article; Article		
J	Alizadeh, Shahab; Sarvestan, Javad; Svoboda, Zdenek; Alaei, Fatemeh; Linduska, Petr; Ataabadi, Peyman Aghaie								Hamstring and ACL injuries impacts on hamstring-to-quadriceps ratio of the elite soccer players: A retrospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				97	104		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.12.001			JAN 2022	2022	This study aimed to compare the angle-specific (AS) and non-angle-specific (NAS) hamstring to quadriceps conventional and functional ratios between healthy, hamstring- and ACL-injured elite soccer players. One hundred and eleven players (27.42 +/- 8.01 years, 182.11 +/- 6.79 cm, 75.93 +/- 7.25 kg) completed a series of concentric knee flexor and extensor strength in addition to eccentric knee flexor strength was measured at an angular velocity of 60 degrees.s-1. Normalized and raw peak torque values, and the torque-angle profiles were extracted for analysis. Conventional and functional NAS (peak values) and AS (waveform ratios) hamstring to quadriceps ratios were calculated and compared between the groups. Healthy players produced greater functional and conventional ratios compared to players with either ACL or hamstring injury. Players with hamstring injury produced a lower AS functional ratios between 46 degrees and 54 degrees of knee flexion. Players suffering from ACL injury depicted a lower value for the AS functional ratio between 33 degrees and 56 degrees of knee flexion. Although NAS can identify soccer players with previous hamstring or ACL injury, the range where there is a strength deficiency is eluded. With the use of AS the range where the deficiency is present can be identified, and clinicians can benefit from this analysis to design robust rehabilitation protocols. Crown Copyright (c) 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Alizadeh, Shahab] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Sarvestan, Javad; Svoboda, Zdenek; Alaei, Fatemeh; Linduska, Petr] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Ataabadi, Peyman Aghaie] Kharazmi Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Biomech & Sports Injuries, Tehran, Iran; [Sarvestan, Javad] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Olomouc, Czech Republic								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000014	60	Article; Article		
J	Weaver, Adam; Ness, Brandon M.; Roman, Dylan P.; Giampetruzzi, Nicholas; Cleland, Joshua A.; Pace, J. Lee; Crepeau, Allison E.								Short-term isokinetic and isometric strength outcomes after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction in adolescents								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				75	83		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.11.009			JAN 2022	2022	Objectives: To examine differences in knee strength outcomes after ACL reconstruction according to quadriceps tendon (QT) or hamstring tendon (HT) autograft in adolescents. Design: Retrospective cohort. Methods: Surgical and clinical outcome data were collected. Analyses were conducted separately for female and male cohorts and grouped by graft type (HT or QT). A Mann-Whitney U test of independent samples was used to examine group differences according to graft type. Results: 107 females (age = 15.6 +/- 1.5 years) and 94 males (age = 15.7 +/- 1.5 years) were included. Mean time since surgery ranged from 7.2 to 7.9 months. Those with a QT autograft had decreased normalized isokinetic quadriceps peak torque on the involved limb compared to the HT group (p < 0.01, ES = 0.71 -0.89). Normalized isometric hamstring peak torque was decreased for those with HT autograft in the female cohort (p = 0.02, ES = 0.57). Conclusion: Normalized isokinetic quadriceps peak torque was reduced by 18-20% on the involved limb in those with a QT autograft. Normalized isometric hamstring peak torque was decreased by 13% for those with HT autograft in the female cohort. Method of strength testing may be an important consideration to fully appreciate strength deficits after ACL reconstruction according to graft type. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Weaver, Adam; Roman, Dylan P.; Giampetruzzi, Nicholas] Connecticut Childrens Sports Phys Therapy, 399 Farmington Ave, Farmington, CT 06032 USA; [Ness, Brandon M.; Cleland, Joshua A.] Tufts Univ, Sch Med, Doctor Phys Therapy Program, Boston, MA 02111 USA; [Pace, J. Lee; Crepeau, Allison E.] Elite Sports Med Connecticut Childrens, Hartford, CT USA; [Pace, J. Lee; Crepeau, Allison E.] UConn Hlth, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Farmington, CT USA; [Roman, Dylan P.] Connecticut Childrens Sports Phys Therapy, 399 Farmington Ave, Farmington, CT 06032 USA								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000011	48	Article; Article		
J	Taberner, M.; Allen, T.; O'keefe, J.; Cohen, D. D.								Contextual considerations using the 'control-chaos continuum' for return to sport in elite football- Part 1: Load planning								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				67	74		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.015			JAN 2022	2022	The 'control-chaos continnum' is an adaptable framework developed to guide the on-pitch rehabilitation process in elite football. One of the key objectives of the continuum is to progressively return players to their preinjury chronic running load, while incorporating the qualitative aspects of movement and cognitive stresses integral to competitive match-play. Whilst injury and player-specific considerations are key to an individualised rehabilitation approach, a host of contextual factors also play an important role in return to sport (RTS) planning. In this article, we highlight some key intrinsic and extrinsic contextual factors for the practitioner to consider in the RTS planning process to help mitigate reinjury risk upon a return to team training. While a return to chronic running load is generally a critical component of the framework, we highlight circumstances in elite football where it is a less relevant factor in RTS decision-making. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Taberner, M.] Orlando Mag Basketball Club, Performance & Med Dept, Orlando, FL 32810 USA; [Taberner, M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Allen, T.] Arsenal Football Club, Arsenal Performance & Res Team, London, England; [Allen, T.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Preston, Lancs, England; [O'keefe, J.] Everton Football Club, Acad Sports Sci Dept, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Cohen, D. D.] Univ Santander UDES, Masira Res Inst, Bucaramanga, Colombia; [Cohen, D. D.] Sports Sci Ctr CCD, Colombian Minist Sport Mindeporte, Bogota, Colombia; [Taberner, M.] Orlando Mag Basketball Club, Performance & Med Dept, Orlando, FL 32810 USA								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000010	50	Article; Article		
J	Bonello, Christian; Menz, Hylton B.; Munteanu, Shannon E.; Rio, Ebonie; Docking, Sean, I								Treatment preferences and use of diagnostic imaging in midportion Achilles tendinopathy by Australian allied health professionals								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				21	27		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.11.001			JAN 2022	2022	Objectives: The objectives of this study were to examine the treatment preferences and use of diagnostic imaging by Australian allied health professionals in the management of midportion Achilles tendinopathy. Design: Cross-sectional survey of Australian allied health professionals. Methods: An online survey was distributed to registered Australian physiotherapists, podiatrists, myo-therapists, exercise physiologists, osteopaths, and chiropractors between September 2018 and October 2019. This survey captured information on clinician demographic, treatment modalities, frequency of use and the reasons for their preferences. A descriptive analysis of the data was employed with nominal and ordinal data analysed using frequency counts. Results: Valid responses were captured from 283 respondents, the majority (229, 80.9%) being physio-therapists. Exercise-based therapy and education were the most commonly used treatments (98.6% and 92.6%, respectively), with the majority of respondents (91.8% and 89.3%) stating that they "always" provided these interventions. Respondents stated that they utilised a number of exercise modalities within the last three years (median = 3, IQR = 3 to 4). Other interventions used as adjunct treatments included heel lifts for shoes (70.0%), massage (59.4%), and taping (40.3%). The majority of respondents (76.7%) never or rarely used diagnostic imaging, citing its limited impact on treatment decision-making and potential for negative impact on patient outcomes. Conclusions: Australian allied health professionals predominantly use exercise and education, but also use adjuncts such as heel lifts and massage, in the management of midportion Achilles tendinopathy. The results of this study may inform research priorities to generate high quality evidence that best reflects clinical practice. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bonello, Christian; Menz, Hylton B.; Munteanu, Shannon E.; Rio, Ebonie; Docking, Sean, I] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Menz, Hylton B.; Munteanu, Shannon E.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Discipline Podiatry, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Bonello, Christian] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000004	29	Article; Article		
J	Pedersen, Julie Ronne; Hansen, Steffan Holst; Grindem, Hege; Jepsen, Anni Plauborg; Thorlund, Jonas Bloch								Readiness for return to sport in non-surgically treated patients with anterior cruciate ligament injury following a public municipal rehabilitation program								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				7	13		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.016			JAN 2022	2022	Objectives: To investigate the proportion of patients that pass a return to sport (RTS) test battery and assess changes in patient-reported outcomes and lower extremity muscle strength following three months of exericse-based rehabilitation in non-surgically treated patients with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Clinical environment (public municipal). Participants: Thirty-nine ACL injured patients (54% female, median age (IQR) 28 years (24-35). Main outcome measures: The Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score, Knee Outcome Survey Activities of Daily Living Scale, single hop for distance, crossover hop for distance, side hop test, the Agility T-test, and quadriceps and hamstrings isometric maximal voluntary contraction (MVC). Results: Following 3 months of rehabilitation, patients had statistically significant improvements in all patients-reported outcomes and in quadriceps and hamstring MVC. Of 28 patients who completed all RTS tests, 11% passed six RTS criteria, 14% five criteria, 11% four criteria, 4% three criteria, 18% two criteria, 21% one criterion, and 21% none of the criteria. Conclusions: The results suggest that three months of public municipal rehabilitation improves patient reported outcomes and lower extremity muscle strength in non-surgically treated patients with ACL injury. However, only one in every 10 patients passed all RTS criteria. (c) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Pedersen, Julie Ronne; Hansen, Steffan Holst; Thorlund, Jonas Bloch] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Campusvej 55, DK-5239 Odense, Denmark; [Grindem, Hege] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Oslo Sport Trauma Res Ctr, 4014 Ulleval Stadion, N-0806 Oslo, Norway; [Grindem, Hege] Karolinska Univ Sjukhuset, Stockholm Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Mol Med & Surg, S-17176 Stockholm, Sweden; [Jepsen, Anni Plauborg] Rehabil Ctr Hollufgard, Hollufgards Alle 20, DK-5220 Odense SO, Denmark; [Thorlund, Jonas Bloch] Univ Southern, Dept Publ Hlth, Res Unit Gen Practice, JB Winslows Vej 9A, DK-5000 Odense, Denmark; [Pedersen, Julie Ronne] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Campusvej, DK-5230 Odense M, Denmark								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000002	47	Article; Article		
J	Fausett, Wayne A.; Reid, Duncan A.; Larmer, Peter J.								Current perspectives of New Zealand physiotherapists on rehabilitation and return to sport following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: A survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				166	172		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.012			JAN 2022	2022	Objective: To investigate the clinical beliefs and practices of New Zealand physiotherapists regarding pre and post-surgical rehabilitation and return to sport (RTS) criteria following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Online cross-sectional survey. Methods: A survey was adapted from a previously published survey and disseminated to New Zealand physiotherapists who were considered more likely to be involved in post-ACLR rehabilitation. Results: The number of completed surveys was 318. Most physiotherapists (85%) preferred to first consult patients within 14 days of ACLR. In the first six weeks following ACLR, 89% of physiotherapists see patients at least once per week. Between 3-and 6-months post-ACLR, 76% of physiotherapists see patients at least once a fortnight. Pre-operative rehabilitation and post-operative rehabilitation exceeding six months are considered essential or important to patient outcomes by over 95% of physiotherapists. While 63% of physiotherapists support RTS 9-12 months after ACLR, 11% permit RTS within 6-9 months of surgery. Common RTS considerations include functional capacity, movement quality during functional tasks, time from ACLR, and knee strength. Conclusion: The survey revealed variability in the beliefs and practices of NZ physiotherapists regarding post-ACLR rehabilitation, and these beliefs and practices are at times inconsistent with best practice recommendations. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Fausett, Wayne A.] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Reid, Duncan A.; Larmer, Peter J.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Clin Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Fausett, Wayne A.] 94 Grey St, Tauranga 3112, New Zealand								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000020	52	Article; Article		
J	Sonesson, Sofi; Kvist, Joanna								Rehabilitation after ACL injury and reconstruction from the patients' perspective								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				158	165		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.001			JAN 2022	2022	Objectives: To describe and compare patients' appraisal of the rehabilitation and adherence to the rehabilitation program after acute ACL injury treated with (ACLR) or without (non-ACLR) reconstruction. Design: Prospective cohort study. Participants: 275 patients (143 females; mean age 25 +/- 7 years) with acute ACL injury, of whom 166 patients had ACLR within 24 months. Main outcome: Adherence to rehabilitation was assessed using the modified Sports Injury Rehabilitation Adherence Scale (SIRAS). Results: Appraisal of rehabilitation was higher in the post-ACLR group compared to the non-ACLR group at 3 months (91% compared to 70% scored rehabilitation as necessary, p = 0.025) and at 6 months (87% compared to 70% scored it as necessary, p = 0.017). SIRAS score did not differ between 3 and 6 months for the non-ACLR group (median (IQR) 13 (2) vs 13 (2)) or the post-ACLR group (14 (1) vs 14 (2), p > 0.05). The post-ACLR group had a higher SIRAS score than the non-ACLR group at 3 and 6 months (p <= 0.001). Conclusion: Patients treated with ACLR reported valuing their rehabilitation more and rated greater adherence to the rehabilitation programme than non-surgically treated patients. As rehabilitation is essential for good knee function, strategies to improve adherence after non-ACLR treatment should be implemented. (C) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Sonesson, Sofi; Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping, Sweden; [Kvist, Joanna] Linkoping Univ, Ctr Med Image Sci & Visualisat CMIV, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Linkoping, Sweden; [Sonesson, Sofi] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Linkoping, Sweden								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000019	39	Article; Article		
J	Mendonca, Luciana D.; Ley, Christophe; Schuermans, Joke; Wezenbeek, Evi; Witvrouw, Erik		IFSPT						How injury registration and preseason assessment are being delivered: An international survey of sports physical therapists								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				151	157		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.08.014			JAN 2022	2022	Objective: To identify the role of sports physical therapists (PT) in the organization of injury registration and preseason assessment, applied in athletic organizations and sports teams of different gender and level world-wide. Design: cross-sectional study. Setting: LimeSurvey platform. Participants: Sports PTs working with athletes invited through International Federation of Sports Physical Therapy. Main outcome measures: injury registration and athlete's screening. Results: 414 sports PTs participated in this international survey (mean age of 37.66 (SD = 9.38) years). 340 participants indicated that the PT as the responsible for injury registration. Barriers to properly register injury throughout the season were indicated by 157 sports PT and 86 (54.77%) indicated a lack of time on their routine as the main factor. 93 participants (30.09%) indicated that they customize the prevention program based on the preseason assessment. Sports PTs who reported not performing a preseason assessment (92 participants - 22.22%) mainly indicated this to be consequence of lack of structure in the organization (44 participants - 47.82%). Conclusion: The majority of the sports PTs participate on injury registration and perform preseason assessment in athletes. However, lack of time in their routine and structure in the organization were recognized as the most important barriers to organize these properly. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Vales Jequitinhonha & Mucuri UFVJM, Grad Program Rehabil & Funct Performance, Diamantina, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana D.; Schuermans, Joke; Wezenbeek, Evi; Witvrouw, Erik] Univ Ghent, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy & Motor Rehabil, Ghent, Belgium; [Mendonca, Luciana D.] Minist Educ Brazil, CAPES Fdn, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Ley, Christophe] Univ Ghent, Dept Appl Math Comp Sci & Stat, Ghent, Belgium; [Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Vales Jequitinhonha & Mucuri, Dept Phys Therapy, Diamantina, MG, Brazil								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000018	29	Article; Article		
J	Mendonca, Luciana D.; Ley, Christophe; Schuermans, Joke; Wezenbeek, Evi; Witvrouw, Erik		IFSPT						How injury prevention programs are being structured and implemented worldwide: An international survey of sports physical therapists								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				53				143	150		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.06.002			JAN 2022	2022	Objective: To identify the role of sports physical therapists (PT) in the injury prevention process and to compare the structure of preventive programs and associated (organization) policies applied in athletic organizations and sports teams of varying gender and level world-wide. Design: cross-sectional study. Setting: LimeSurvey platform. Participants: Sports PT working with athletes invited through the International Federation of Sports Physical Therapy. Main outcome measures: Sports injury prevention program (IPP) structure and implementation. Results: 414 participants fully participate in this survey study. Athlete's injury history (68.84%), the most common injuries within the sport modality (67.87%) and athlete's preseason screening results (64.01%) were most frequently used to customize IPPs. Warm-up (70.04%) and individually PT-guided exercisetherapy (70.04%) were the preferred methods to organize the prevention routine. The main barrier for IPP implementation was lack of time within the athlete's weekly training schedule (66.66%). The majority of the participants (72.84%) reported to evaluate the perception of IPP's effect by comparing current and preceding seasons' injury occurrences. Conclusion: These survey results are the first identifying contemporary sports injury prevention organization and implementation policies on an international level. This information might support the sports PT community in improving and standardizing IPP (implementation) strategies worldwide. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Vales Jequitinhonha & Mucuri UFVJM, Grad Program Rehabil & Funct Performance, Diamantina, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana D.; Schuermans, Joke; Wezenbeek, Evi] Univ Ghent, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy & Motor, Ghent, Belgium; [Mendonca, Luciana D.] Minist Educ Brazil, CAPES Fdn, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Ley, Christophe] Univ Ghent, Dept Appl Math Comp Sci & Stat, Ghent, Belgium; [Witvrouw, Erik] Univ Ghent, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy & Motor Rehabil, Ghent, Belgium; [Mendonca, Luciana D.] Univ Fed Vales Jequitinhonha & Mucuri, Dept Phys Therapy, Diamantina, MG, Brazil								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734731000017	67	Article; Article		
J	O'Meagher, Reilly; O'Reilly, John; Ali, Ajmol								The effect of different playing surfaces on soccer skill performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1378	1384	17479541211066393	10.1177/17479541211066393			DEC 2022	2022	Football (soccer) is traditionally played on natural grass but artificial surfaces are becoming an increasing popular alternative. Understanding how different surfaces affect a player's skill performance has not been examined. This study sought to compare soccer skill performance, using a validated test, on natural grass, third generation (3G) artificial turf, and indoor sprung wooden floor. Following familiarisation, 14 male players (12.7 +/- 0.5 years-old, with 6.21 years playing experience) performed the Loughborough Soccer Passing Test (LSPT) on three different surfaces in the following order: indoor, grass and artificial turf. Players were given two practise attempts before the best of two trials were recorded. Movement time was faster on artificial turf (45.1 +/- 1.3 s) than natural grass (46.2 +/- 1.8 s; p = 0.045), but there was no difference in overall LSPT performance between grass (54.1 +/- 4.2 s) and artificial turf (54.0 +/- 4.7 s; p = 0.92). Overall LSPT performance was better on indoor surface (50.9 +/- 4.6 s) than grass (p = 0.02) and artificial turf (p = 0.02) due to reduced penalty time on the indoor surface (5.5 +/- 3.3 s) than grass (7.9 +/- 2.9 s; p = 0.001) and artificial turf (8.9 +/- 3.9 s; p = 0.003). There is no difference in soccer skill performance between grass and 3G artificial turf. Skill performance on an indoor surface was similar to 6% better than both grass and 3G artificial turf due to better ball control and/or accuracy of passing. Our findings will enable comparison of studies using the LSPT on indoor and outdoor (grass or artificial) surfaces.		[O'Meagher, Reilly; Ali, Ajmol] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Auckland, New Zealand; [O'Meagher, Reilly] New Zealand Football, Auckland, New Zealand; [O'Reilly, John; Ali, Ajmol] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Shatin, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Ali, Ajmol] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Auckland, New Zealand								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000740691200001	37	Article; Article		
J	Barrutiabengoa, Joxe Maria; Corredor, Pilar; Muga, Luis								Does The Betting Industry Price Gender? Evidence from Professional Tennis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	7			881	906	15270025211071026	10.1177/15270025211071026			OCT 2022	2022	This research addresses the importance of gender in the pricing process of the sports betting industry. Specifically, we investigate the impact of gender in the prices that bookmakers offer for tennis matches. Despite widespread evidence of gender bias both in the practice of the sport and its media coverage, tennis is one of the sports that has done most to achieve equality. The analysis of 51,881 tennis matches reveals that betting firms quote higher prices for women's matches than for men's, even when considering uncertainty due to the surprise factor and the media attention. The separate analysis of two bookmakers strengthens the evidence for the role of media attention as a source of gender-related information asymmetry.		[Barrutiabengoa, Joxe Maria] BBVA Res, Econ Scenarios Unit, Bogota, Colombia; [Corredor, Pilar; Muga, Luis] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Business Adm, Navarra, Spain; [Corredor, Pilar; Muga, Luis] INARBE, Financial Econ, Navarra, Spain; [Muga, Luis] Campus Arrosadia S-N, Navarra 31006, Spain								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000740676700001	42	Article; Article		
J	Andreff, Wladimir								<i>Oldies but Goldies</i>! Twenty Years After, the Journal of Sports Economics at a Crossroads?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	6			659	727	15270025211051061	10.1177/15270025211051061			AUG 2022	2022	The present article first delineates core sport economics and compares the content of the Journal of Sports Economics (JSE) in different periods of time, then with other core publications in sport economics. Finally, a comparison is undertaken with articles in sport economics which have been published in generalist economics journals over the past two decades. A major conclusion is that the JSE appears to be the mainstream journal in quantitative sport microeconomics. Other strengths and weaknesses are exhibited and tentatively explained, including a marginal attention paid to non-microeconomic issues in sport and some other unheeded topics. A final conclusion is geared toward options for the editorial policy in the decades to come.		[Andreff, Wladimir] Univ Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, 61 Chemin Pouget, F-30350 Ledignan, France; [Andreff, Wladimir] Univ Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, 61 Chemin Pouget, F-30350 Ledignan, France								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000736357800001	64	Article; Article		
J	Alfano, Vincenzo								COVID-19 Diffusion Before Awareness: The Role of Football Match Attendance in Italy								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	5			503	523	15270025211067786	10.1177/15270025211067786			JUN 2022	2022	Anecdotal evidence suggests that football matches may have played a role in the spread of COVID-19 all over Europe. Nevertheless, from a scientific point of view, the impact of football matches on the spread of COVID-19 remains unclear. In this paper we study, via a quantitative analysis, the case of Italy, a country badly affected by COVID, and one where attending football matches is very popular. We consider the impact of matches played in January and February 2020 on the dynamic of the pandemic in March and April the same year. Our results, which consider all levels of Italian professional football, and the highest level of amateur football, show that matches played in January and February had an impact on the evolution of the pandemic in March and April. These results suggest that great care must be taken before considering re-opening stadia.		[Alfano, Vincenzo] Westminster Int Univ Tashkent, Dept Econ, Tashkent, Uzbekistan; [Alfano, Vincenzo] CES Ifo, Ctr Econ Studies Munich, Munich, Germany; [Alfano, Vincenzo] Westminster Int Univ Tashkent, Dept Econ, Tashkent, Uzbekistan; [Alfano, Vincenzo] CES Ifo, Ctr Econ Studies Munich, Munich, Germany								19							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000736357200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Miyanishi, Tomohisa; Chen, Yifan; Shibayama, Kazuhito; Nagahara, Ryu								Comparison of crossover and jab step start techniques in sprinting for football and handball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1354	1362	17479541211066438	10.1177/17479541211066438			DEC 2022	2022	There are two techniques for a lateral sprint start: crossover (CS) and jab step (JS) starts. This study aimed to elucidate the difference in the CS and JS starts in terms of sprint performance and leg kinetics in athletes from ball-and-goal type sports (e.g. soccer and handball). Nineteen male athletes performed CS and JS starts, during which their motion and the force they applied to the ground were simultaneously recorded using a motion-capture system and two force platforms. The results showed that, although 5-m time via video analysis did not differ between CS and JS starts, forward velocity of centre of gravity (CG) and normalised average horizontal external power were greater for the JS start than the CS start. From waveform analysis, greater positive joint power in the sagittal plane leading to greater positive work in the JS start were found in the first three quarters of the push-off phase for rear hip extension and in the subsequent push-off phase for rear ankle plantar flexion. In conclusion, the results suggest that the JS start is superior to the CS start for start quickness, though the gains in the start did not appear to transfer to the 5-m performance. Moreover, greater positive joint power in the first three quarters of the push-off phase for the rear hip extension and in the subsequent push-off phase for the rear ankle plantar flexion were considered to be important contributing factors to the better performance of the JS start.		[Miyanishi, Tomohisa; Chen, Yifan; Shibayama, Kazuhito] Sendai Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Shibata, Miyagi, Japan; [Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan; [Miyanishi, Tomohisa] Sendai Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Shibata, Miyagi, Japan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000736437500001	29	Article; Article		
J	Kipp, Kristof								Joint and pull phase specific relative effort in weightlifting and simulated training effects								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2299	2311		10.1080/14763141.2021.2019303			NOV 1 2024	2024	The purposes of this study were to quantify the relative effort (RE) of the extensor and plantarflexor muscles during the clean and simulate the effects of strength and speed-strength training on joint and pull phase specific RE. Five weightlifters performed the clean at 85% of their one-repetition maximum, while motion capture and ground reaction forces were recorded and used to calculate lower body net joint moments via inverse dynamics (NJM(ID)). Joint angle and angular velocity data were used as input to a musculoskeletal model that estimated maximum NJM (NJM(max)) weightlifters could theoretically generate. The RE of the hip and knee extensor and ankle plantarflexor muscles were calculated as the ratios between NJM(ID) and NJM(max). Model parameters were changed to simulate the effects of strength and speed-strength training. Results show that simulated strength training decreased RE of all muscle groups during the first and second pull. In contrast, speed-strength training decreased hip extensor and knee extensor RE during the first pull and second pull, respectively. Strength training may have broad and consistent effects on RE during the clean, whereas speed-strength training may have more joint and phase-specific effects.		[Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000736027300001	25	Article; Article		
J	Bordelon, Nicole M.; Wasserberger, Kyle W.; Talmage, Jessica L. Downs; Friesen, Kenzie B.; Washington, Jessica K.; Oliver, Gretchen D.								Segment power analysis of collegiate softball hitting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2219	2232		10.1080/14763141.2021.2011391			NOV 1 2024	2024	The primary aim of this investigation was to describe the energy flow through the kinetic chain during softball hitting using a segmental power analysis. Twenty-three NCAA Division I collegiate softball athletes (20.4 +/- 1.7 yr; 166.7 +/- 22.0 cm; 74.9 +/- 15.9 kg) performed three maximum effort swings off a stationary tee placed in the middle of the strike zone. Pelvis, trunk, humerus, forearm and hand segment powers were integrated across four phases of the softball swing (load, stride, acceleration, and follow-through). The load and stride phases had low segment energy inflow and outflow values as well as net segment energy flow for all body segments compared to subsequent phases of the swing. The acceleration phase showed large trunk inflow values relative to the pelvis. There was also descriptively larger front compared to back-side upper extremity inflow. Finally, the follow-through phase showed primarily energy outflow for the upper extremity segments likely attributed to slowing down rotation.		[Bordelon, Nicole M.; Wasserberger, Kyle W.; Oliver, Gretchen D.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Talmage, Jessica L. Downs] Northern State Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Aberdeen, SD USA; [Friesen, Kenzie B.] Univ Saskatchewan, Coll Kinesiol, Saskatoon, SK, Canada; [Washington, Jessica K.] Berry Coll, Dept Kinesiol, Mt Berry, GA USA; [Oliver, Gretchen D.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Auburn, AL 36849 USA								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000736014100001	30	Article; Article		
J	Farana, R.; Williams, G.; Fujihara, T.; Wyatt, H. E.; Naundorf, F.; Irwin, G.								Current issues and future directions in gymnastics research: biomechanics, motor control and coaching interface								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	2			161	185		10.1080/14763141.2021.2016928			FEB 1 2023	2023	The sport of gymnastics is undergoing a global examination of its culture and the relationship between the gymnast, coach and environment is a central focus. The aim of this review is to explore biomechanics and motor control research in skill development and technique selection in artistic gymnastics with a focus on the underlying concepts and scientific principles that allow performance enhancement, skill development and injury risk reduction. The current review examines peer reviewed papers from 2000 onwards, with a focus on contemporary approaches in the field of gymnastics research, and highlights several key directions for future gymnastics research. Based on our review and the integration of the models of Newell and Irwin et al. (2005), we recommend that future gymnastics research should embrace at the very least a multidisciplinary approach and aim for an interdisciplinary paradigm.		[Farana, R.; Irwin, G.] Univ Ostrava, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Williams, G.] Univ Exeter, Exeter, Devon, England; [Fujihara, T.] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Osaka, Japan; [Wyatt, H. E.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Naundorf, F.] Inst Appl Training Sci Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany; [Irwin, G.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff, Wales; [Farana, R.] Univ Ostrava, Ostrava, Czech Republic								25							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000736029300001	156	Article; Article		
J	Wallace, Kelsi; Kalogeropoulou, Sofia; Lamb, Peter								The time-continuous association between turnout and axial joint moments in the competitive Irish dance 'fly' landing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2289	2298		10.1080/14763141.2021.2016927			NOV 1 2024	2024	Turnout is a key technical and aesthetic element in competitive Irish dance involving external rotation of the lower limb and must be sustained during landings. 'Forced' turnout, aided by floor friction rather than active hip rotation, is likely to result in large internal rotation moments at the knee and ankle, which may increase the risk of injury. The aim of the current study was to establish the relationship between the hip and ankle external rotation vector field and maximum internal rotation moments of the ankle and knee. Thirteen (12 female) competitive Irish dancers performed 10 flys (common Irish dance leap) onto a force plate while being recorded by a ten-camera motion capture system. Time-continuous data were analysed over the duration of landing using statistical parametric mapping (SPM). A positive correlation (p < 0.05) was found between the hip-ankle turnout vector field and maximum ankle internal rotation moments throughout most of the landing. Post-hoc analyses showed that hip external rotation contributed the most to the maximum ankle internal rotation moment (p < 0.05). Increasing hip turnout during landing could reduce internal rotation moments, assuming hip turnout brings the thigh and foot axial orientation more in line with each other.		[Wallace, Kelsi; Lamb, Peter] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Kalogeropoulou, Sofia] Univ Otago, Sch Performing Arts, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Lamb, Peter] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin, New Zealand								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000736017600001	24	Article; Article		
J	Hammami, Mehrez; Gaamouri, Nawel; Cherni, Yosser; Gaied, Sabri; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel; Hill, Lee; Nikolaidis, Pantelis Theodoros; Knechtle, Beat								Effects of complex strength training with elastic band program on repeated change of direction in young female handball players: Randomized control trial								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1396	1407	17479541211062152	10.1177/17479541211062152			DEC 2022	2022	This study examined the effect of 10-week complex strength training with elastic band program on fitness components in young female handball players. Thirty-eight handball players aged 15.8 +/- 0.2 years were randomly assigned to an experimental group or control group. The experimental group performed complex strength training with elastic band twice a week over 10 weeks, which included 8 workshops of progressing set length (number of sets) and band resistance for each specific exercise. Sessions were lasted approximately 35 min. The control group maintained regular in-season training. Tests included handgrip; back extensor; medicine ball throw; 30 m sprint times; Modified Illinois change-of-direction (Illinois-MT); four jump tests (squat jump, countermovement jump, countermovement jump with arms and five jump test; static (stork test) and dynamic (Y balance test) balance; and repeated sprint T-test. The experimental group enhanced all strength performance (handgrip right (p < 0.001), handgrip left (p < 0.001), back extensor strength (p < 0.001) and medicine ball throw (p < 0.001) compared to the controls); sprint performance (5 m (p<0.001), 10 m (p < 0.001), 20 m (p < 0.001), and 30 m (p < 0.001)); the change of direction (Illinois-MT (p < 0.001)); jump performance (squat jump (p < 0.001), countermovement jump (p < 0.001), countermovement jump with arms (p < 0.001), and five jump test (p < 0.01)); and the repeated sprint T-test scores (p<0.001in all scores). In contrast, no significant difference in both static and dynamic balance performance between experimental group and control group. Ten weeks of complex strength training with elastic band improve fitness components measures in young female handball players then habitual training.		[Hammami, Mehrez; Gaamouri, Nawel; Cherni, Yosser; Gaied, Sabri; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel] Univ La Manouba, Res Unit URI7JS01 Sport Performance Hlth & Soc, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ KsarSaid, Manouba, Tunisia; [Hammami, Mehrez; Gaamouri, Nawel; Cherni, Yosser; Gaied, Sabri; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel] Univ La Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Manouba, Tunisia; [Hill, Lee] McMaster Univ, Dept Pediat, Div Gastroenterol & Nutr, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Nikolaidis, Pantelis Theodoros] Univ West Attica, Sch Hlth & Caring Sci, Athens, Greece; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl, St Gallen, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel] Inst Super Sport & Educ Phys Ksar, Tunis 2010, Tunisia								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000736434200001	48	Article; Article		
J	Pappas, Panagiotis; Paradisis, Giorgos P.; Girard, Olivier								Influence of lower limb dominance on mechanical asymmetries during high-speed treadmill running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2277	2288		10.1080/14763141.2021.2016926			NOV 1 2024	2024	We determine whether mechanical asymmetries differ between dominant and non-dominant legs at fast treadmill speed. Stride temporal variables, derived from high-speed camera recordings, allowed to estimate leg and vertical stiffness through the sine-wave method in 31 uninjured males during treadmill running at 6.67 m.s(-1). Lower limb dominance was determined by the triple-jump test. The asymmetry was expressed as dominant-non-dominant and indexed by the absolute asymmetry index (ASI). The lowest and highest mean ASI values were detected for contact time (1.69%) and flight time (5.66%), respectively; ASI values for spring-mass characteristics (2.6% <= leg and vertical stiffness, peak vertical force, change in vertical leg length and centre of mass vertical displacement <= 4.7%) were within this range. Inter-subject variability in ASI varied substantially among the seven analysed variables with larger and smaller range of variability in ASI found for flight time (0-16.56%) and contact time (0-3.47%), respectively. Because the magnitude of group mean ASI appears inconsistent among stride temporal and spring-mass characteristics, different biomechanical variables should not be used interchangeably to assess laterality effects at fast treadmill speed. The widespread ASI range also indicates that using a 'fixed cut-off' threshold is an arbitrary approach.		[Pappas, Panagiotis; Paradisis, Giorgos P.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Sports Performance Lab, Athens, Greece; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, Australia; [Paradisis, Giorgos P.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Sports Performance Lab, Athens, Greece								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000734262400001	39	Article; Article		
J	Hammami, Mehrez; Gaamouri, Nawel; Cherni, Yosser; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel; Hill, Lee; Knechtle, Beat								Effects of contrast strength training with elastic band program on sprint, jump, strength, balance and repeated change of direction in young female handball players Contrast training in female handball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1147	1157	17479541211050724	10.1177/17479541211050724			OCT 2022	2022	Maximal strength, power and his derivates (sprint, change of direction repeatedly and jump) are considered as major determinants of success in elite handball players. Contrast strength training with elastic band (CSTEB) program is form of resistance training, and may play an important method of training to improve this quality. This study examined the effects of 10-week contrast strength training with elastic band (CSTEB) program on physical performance in young female handball players. Thirty participants (age: 15.7 +/- 0.3 years; body mass: 63.7 +/- 3.7 kg; body height: 166.8 +/- 3.8 cm; body fat: 26.9 +/- 3.4; and Maturity-offset: 2.9 +/- 0.3 years) were randomly assigned between experimental group (EG; n = 15) and control group (CG; n = 15). Two-way analyses of variance (group x time) were assessed for handgrip; back extensor; medicine ball throw; 30-m sprint times; Modi?ed Illinois change-of-direction (Illinois-MT); four jump tests [(squat jump (SJ), countermovement jump (CMJ), countermovement jump with arms (CMJA) and five jump test (5JT)]; static (stork) and dynamic (Y balance) balance tests; and repeated sprint T-test (RSTT). The EG enhanced all strength performance [handgrip right, handgrip left, back extensor strength and medicine ball throw (p < 0.001)] compared to CG. The EG enhanced all sprint performance. The EG also improved performance in the Illinois-MT. All jump performance improved signi?cantly [SJ (p = 0.007), CMJ (p = 0.001) and CMJA (p = 0.001)] except 5JT in the EG. Of the same, 3 of 4 repeated sprint T-test scores [RSTT-Best-Time, RSTT-Mean-Time and RSTT-Total-Time] increased significantly in the EG relative to the CG. Conversely, there were no significant changes in balance performance between groups. It is concluded that 10-weeks of CSTEB improved physical performance (strength, sprint, change of direction, jump, and repeated change of direction) measures in young female handball players.		[Hammami, Mehrez; Gaamouri, Nawel; Cherni, Yosser; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel] Univ La Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Res Unit UR17JS01, Sport Performance Hlth & Soc, Tunis, Tunisia; [Hammami, Mehrez; Gaamouri, Nawel; Cherni, Yosser; Chelly, Mohamed Souhaiel] Univ La Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Tunis, Tunisia; [Hill, Lee] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Knechtle, Beat] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl, Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl, Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000737832200001	36	Article; Article		
J	Kaartinen, Sami; Venojarvi, Mika; Lesch, Kim J.; Tikkanen, Heikki; Vartiainen, Paavo; Stenroth, Lauri								Lower limb muscle activation patterns in ice-hockey skating and associations with skating speed								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2233	2248		10.1080/14763141.2021.2014551			NOV 1 2024	2024	In this study, we aimed to describe lower limb kinematic and muscle activation patterns and then to examine the potential associations between those variables and skating speed in highly trained ice-hockey players. Twelve players (age 18.4-22.0 years) performed five maximal 30-metre forward skating sprints. Skating speeds, muscle activities from eight lower limb muscles (gluteus maximus, gluteus medius, adductor magnus, rectus femoris, vastus lateralis, biceps femoris, tibialis anterior and soleus), and sagittal plane joint angles from the hip and knee joint were measured. A lower activity of the gluteus maximus (r = -0.651, p = 0.022, beta = -0.08) and a reduced gluteus maximus to rectus femoris coactivity (r = -0.786, p = 0.002, beta = -3.26) during the recovery phase were found to be associated with faster skating speed. No significant associations were observed between sagittal plane hip and knee kinematics and skating speed. This study provides evidence that muscle activities during the recovery phase of skating may have an important role in skating performance.		[Kaartinen, Sami; Venojarvi, Mika; Lesch, Kim J.; Tikkanen, Heikki] Univ Eastern Finland, Inst Biomed Sports & Exercise Med, Sch Med, Kuopio, Finland; [Vartiainen, Paavo; Stenroth, Lauri] Univ Eastern Finland, Dept Appl Phys, Kuopio, Finland; [Kaartinen, Sami] Univ Eastern Finland, Inst Biomed Sports & Exercise Med, Sch Med, Kuopio, Finland								25							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000732562300001	16	Article; Article		
J	Etchebehere, Mauricio; Bergamo, Raiany Rosa; Carvalho, Humberto Moreira; de Moraes, Anderson Marques; Guerra-Junior, Gil								Can the sedentary behavior of basketball and volleyball players impact bone mass and bone geometry?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1428	1434	17479541211064415	10.1177/17479541211064415			DEC 2022	2022	The aim of the study was to evaluate the relationship between sedentary behavior, bone mass, and bone geometry among young male basketball and volleyball players. This cross-sectional study included 55 adolescent basketball (n = 21) and volleyball (n = 34) players (14-17 years). Body composition (body mass index, fat mass, and lean mass) was measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, comprising bone mineral density, bone mineral content at the lumbar spine, and femoral neck. Bone geometry considered the femur strength index, section modulus, cross-sectional moment of inertia, and cross-sectional area. Dietary intake was obtained through a semiquantitative questionnaire, and the sedentary behavior, by the Adolescent Sedentary Activity Questionnaire. Linear regression models, fitted by Bayesian methods, explored the variation of the variables by sport. Body composition and bone mass values were high for both sports, but there was no variation for body composition. Adjusting for age, there was no association of sedentary behavior on bone parameters. For femoral strength index, age had a moderate to large association with all bone indicators. Lastly, there was influence of sport (level-2 unit) on the estimates of the association between sedentary behavior and age with bone indicators, as uncertainty estimates for group-level effects were high. There is no association between sedentary behavior and bone parameters, showing that accumulated training loads (15+ h/wk) among young basketball and volleyball players are critical; producing a positive stimulus on bone parameters development.		[Etchebehere, Mauricio] Amer Sch Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Bergamo, Raiany Rosa; Guerra-Junior, Gil] State Univ Campinas UNICAMP, Sch Med Sci, Ctr Invest Pediat, Lab Growth & Dev, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Carvalho, Humberto Moreira] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sch Sports, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [de Moraes, Anderson Marques] Pontif Catholic Univ Campinas PUCCAMP, Sch Phys Educ, Rua Prof Dr Euryclides Jesus Zerbini 1516, BR-13087571 Campinas, SP, Brazil; [de Moraes, Anderson Marques] Pontif Catholic Univ Campinas PUCCAMP, Sch Phys Educ, Rua Prof Dr Euryclides Jesus Zerbini 1516, BR-13087571 Campinas, SP, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000739399800001	42	Article; Article		
J	Mouelhi-Guizani, Salma; Guinoubi, Sarah; Teyeb, Nessrine; Chtara, Mokhtar; Crespo, Miguel								Effect of practice hours on elite junior tennis players' burnout: Gender differences								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1418	1427	17479541211064417	10.1177/17479541211064417			DEC 2022	2022	This study investigated the effect of training hours on elite junior tennis players' burnout with attention to gender differences. A quantitative cross-sectional design was used in this research. A sample of 70 junior elite Tunisian tennis players (17.01 +/- 0.81y) completed a demographic and the Athlete Burnout Questionnaire. Results showed that 64% (n = 45) had a low risk, 14% (n = 10) had a moderate risk, 13% (n = 9) showed a high risk of burnout and 9% (n = 6) had burnout with individual differences. Analysis of variance revealed that players who trained more than 12 h (high volume) reported significantly higher scores of the burnout dimensions: emotional and physical exhaustion (p < 0.001; d = 2.18); sport devaluation (p < 0.001; d = 2.36); reduced sense of accomplishment (p < 0.001; d = 2.27); as well general burnout (p < 0.01; d = 2.69), than players that trained less than 12 h (moderate volume and low volume). The effect of gender was observed in the variables of emotional and physical exhaustion (t = 2.17; p < 0.03), sport devaluation (t = 2.23; p < 0.029), reduced sense of accomplishment (t = 2.58; p < 0.012) and general burnout (t = 2.41; p < 0.019) with female players showing higher scores in all of the burnout dimensions. It was concluded that the high volume of weekly training hours by junior players was associated with higher levels of the general burnout scores and that female players showed higher burnout scores than their male counterparts.		[Mouelhi-Guizani, Salma; Guinoubi, Sarah; Teyeb, Nessrine] Univ Manouba, Inst Super Sport & Educ Phys Ksar Said, Manouba, Tunisia; [Mouelhi-Guizani, Salma] Tunisian Tennis Federat, El Menzah, Tunisia; [Chtara, Mokhtar] CNMS, Ben Arous, Tunisia; [Chtara, Mokhtar] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports, Tunisian Res Lab Sport Performance Optimisat, Ariana, Tunisia; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Bank Lane, London SW15 5XZ, England; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Bank Lane, London SW15 5XZ, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000736433100001	83	Article; Article		
J	Fransen, Job; Tribolet, Rhys; Sheehan, William Bradshaw; McBride, Ignatius; Novak, Andrew Roman; Watsford, Mark Langley								Cooperative passing network features are associated with successful match outcomes in the Australian Football League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1101	1108	17479541211052760	10.1177/17479541211052760			OCT 2022	2022	Collective behaviour is an important component of team performance in team sports. This study used a binomial generalised linear mixed effects regression model to investigate the relationship between cooperative passing network characteristics and match outcomes of professional Australian Football League competition games across four seasons between 2016 and 2019. It divided a sample of 1629 observations into a training and testing partition used to develop and assess the validity of the model used in this study, respectively. The results of this study reveal that a team's connectedness is associated with the probability of winning Australian Football League games (Akaike Information Criterion = 1637.3, residual df= 1297, deviance = 1625.3). When most players within a team are involved in the team's passing network bidirectionally (i.e. a well-connected network; odds ratio = 1.053; 95% confidence interval: 4.2-6.5%, p < 0.001), teams have a higher probability of winning. The centralisation of a team's passing network was not significantly related to match outcomes. The classification accuracy for the model associating network characteristics with match outcomes was 69%. Collectively, these findings suggest that Australian Football League-specific network features should be incorporated within existing performance analysis methods and can provide a useful, practical tool for coaches to measure collective performance during team practice.		[Fransen, Job; Tribolet, Rhys; Sheehan, William Bradshaw; McBride, Ignatius; Novak, Andrew Roman; Watsford, Mark Langley] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Human Performance Res Ctr, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [McBride, Ignatius] Univ Technol Sydney, Sch Math & Phys Sci, Ultimo, Australia; [Novak, Andrew Roman] Rugby Australia, High Performance Dept, Moore Pk, Australia; [Fransen, Job] Univ Technol Sydney, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Fac Hlth Human Performance Res Ctr, UTS Rugby Australia Bldg, Moore Pk, NSW 2021, Australia								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000736431500001	39	Article; Article		
J	Gift, Paul								Reply to the Caves et al. Comment on "Moving the Needle in MMA: On the Marginal Revenue Product of UFC Fighters"								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	3			366	373	15270025211067792	10.1177/15270025211067792			APR 2022	2022			[Gift, Paul] Pepperdine Graziadio Business Sch, 6100 Ctr Dr, Los Angeles, CA 90045 USA; [Gift, Paul] Pepperdine Graziadio Business Sch, 6100 Ctr Dr, Los Angeles, CA 90045 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000736459500001	14	Article; Article		
J	Gasparetto, Thadeu; Barajas, Angel								Wage Dispersion and Team Performance: The Moderation Role of Club Size								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	5			548	566	15270025211067793	10.1177/15270025211067793			JUN 2022	2022	Previous research on professional football offer conflicting results regarding the impact of wage dispersion on team performance. However, the existing intra-league heterogeneity among clubs is overlooked and could be the reason for the diverging outcomes. The aim of this paper is to reanalyze this relationship having the clubs' size as moderator. Payroll - which captures the financial strength - is used as proxy of club size. Ordinary Least Squares regressions with season and league fixed effects are employed. Dispersion is measured by three indexes for robustness check. The outputs confirm the quadratic relationship between wage dispersion and performance, but adding that identical levels of dispersion have different impact on football clubs according to their financial strength.		[Gasparetto, Thadeu; Barajas, Angel] Natl Res Univ Higher Sch Econ, St Petersburg, Russia; [Gasparetto, Thadeu] Natl Res Univ Higher Sch Econ, Dept Management, Kantemirovskaya Ulitsa 3a,208, St Petersburg 194100, Russia								20							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000736356900001	61	Article; Article		
J	Cossin, Marion; Ross, Annie; Prince, Francois								A kinematic analysis of jumping technique in elite Korean teeterboard athletes: a case-study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	2			246	254		10.1080/14763141.2021.2018030			FEB 1 2023	2023	Korean teeterboard is a circus discipline that consists of a board pivoted at its centre upon which two acrobats are catapulted in turn performing acrobatic jumps. This paper presents one of the first studies that focuses on investigating the factors that contribute to jump height in Korean teeterboard. A total of 120 jumps were recorded from two acrobats using motion capture. Selected variables were input to a Boosted Regression Trees (BRT) analysis, corresponding to three specific events: acrobat landing, rotation of the teeterboard and acrobat take-off. Significant predictor variables were identified as: 1) body's centre of mass vertical velocity at the first contact with the teeterboard (relative importance: 69.4%) for landing, 2) maximum downward vertical teeterboard velocity for teeterboard rotation (72.7%) and 3) maximum upward vertical teeterboard velocity for take-off (50.4%). Kinematic parameters such as hip range of motion during take-off also contributed significantly to jump height (37.2%). The results provide understanding of the complex kinematics between two acrobats and a flexible pivoting board. Teeterboard designers, acrobats and trainers should be aware that maximising these parameters are the best strategies to improve jump height.		[Cossin, Marion] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Dept Pharmacol & Physiol, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Ross, Annie] Polytech Montreal, Dept Genie Mecan, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Prince, Francois] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Dept Chirurg, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Prince, Francois] Inst Natl Sport Quebec, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Cossin, Marion] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Dept Pharmacol & Physiol, Montreal, PQ, Canada								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000731807900001	12	Article; Article		
J	Bartolomei, Sandro; Lanzoni, Ivan Malagoli; Di Michele, Rocco								Two vs. One Resistance Exercise Sessions in One Day: Acute Effects on Recovery and Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			92	97		10.1080/02701367.2021.1939848			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to compare the recovery response of one resistance training session (1TRS) vs. two resistance training sessions (2TRS) performed in 1 day, on upper body performance, muscle morphology and muscle soreness in trained men. Methods: Twenty-four resistance trained men were randomly assigned into a 1TRS group (N = 12; age = 25.0 +/- 2.4 years; body mass = 87.6 +/- 14.0 kg; height = 177.1 +/- 4.9 cm) or into a 2TRS group (N = 10; age = 24.4 +/- 1.6 years; body mass = 81.1 +/- 5.6 kg; height = 176.6 +/- 6.7 cm). 1TRS performed one training session involving eight sets of 10 reps at 70% of 1RM at the bench press, while 2TRS group divided the same training volume in two workouts, with a recovery time of 4 hr. Performance [bench press throw power (BTP) and isometric bench press (IBP)] and muscle thickness of pectoralis major (PECMT) were assessed at baseline (BL), 15-min, 24-hr and 48-hr post-exercise. Results: Training intensity was significantly higher in 2TRS compared to 1TRS (p < .001). Faster recovery rates were detected for BTP (p = .039) and PECMT (p = .05) in 2TRS compared to 1TRS. Both BTP and PECMT were significantly more affected (p < .05) in 1TRS than in 2TRS at 24 h. Conclusions: Results indicate that the recovery process may be accelerated by splitting a high resistance training volume into two different training sessions performed in 1 day.		[Bartolomei, Sandro; Lanzoni, Ivan Malagoli; Di Michele, Rocco] Univ Bologna, Bologna, Italy; [Bartolomei, Sandro] Univ Bologna, Dept Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, I-40138 Bologna, Italy								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000738487200001	33	Article; Article		
J	Andrew, Matthew; Baptise, Giltan Z.; Reeves, Matthew J.; Roberts, Simon J.; McRobert, Allistair P.; Ford, Paul R.								The developmental activities of skilled youth CONCACAF soccer players and the contribution of their development system								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	6			1363	1377	17479541211061036	10.1177/17479541211061036			DEC 2022	2022	Small/er soccer nations rely strongly on developing youth athletes into experts in adulthood due to financial, logistical, and coach education constraints. One factor that contributes to this expertise is activities engaged in during childhood. Researchers have described these activities by focusing on larger, well-developed countries that often have larger participation rates and higher competition levels than their smaller counterparts. Therefore, to provide more specific information to support talent development in smaller soccer nations, a survey of the youth development system of a small soccer nation was conducted, alongside recording the developmental activities of skilled and less-skilled soccer players within this system. Key stakeholders (e.g., technical director) completed a youth development system survey. Skilled soccer players (n = 12) who were representing their country at U17 level and less-skilled players (n = 13) that had never played for their country completed a Participation History Questionnaire. Skilled players engaged in significantly higher amounts of individual practice in both childhood and early adolescence compared to less-skilled players. Survey data indicated that the greater amounts of individual practice for the skilled players stemmed from a lack of finances, playing facilities, and a formal coach education program. Results from this study may inform future practices and processes in the youth development systems of small/er soccer nations and their national associations.		[Andrew, Matthew; Baptise, Giltan Z.; Roberts, Simon J.; McRobert, Allistair P.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Football Exchange, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Reeves, Matthew J.] Univ Cent Lancashire, UCLan Res Ctr Appl Sport Phys Act & Performance, Preston, Lancs, England; [Ford, Paul R.] St Marys Univ Twickenham, Dept Psychol & Pedag Sci, London, England; [Andrew, Matthew] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000735047800001	64	Article; Article		
J	Kittel, Aden; Elsworthy, Nathan; Spittle, Michael								The Effectiveness of Above Real Time Training for Developing Decision-Making Accuracy in Australian Football Umpires								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			64	72		10.1080/02701367.2021.1939843			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of an above real-time video-based training intervention on Australian football umpire decision-making skill. Methods: Three groups completed two testing sessions, either side of a five-week, video-based training intervention either in real time (100% speed), above real time (150% speed) or control (no training) condition. Testing included two parts: resting included 25 video clips 10 of Australian football match footage, presented in real time with participants resting; exercise included a separate 25 clips also presented at real time, during a 10 x 300 m run test. Tests were repeated within two weeks following training. Results: Decision-making accuracy significantly improved (p = .043) for the real time training group in the exercise test. There were no improvements in control or above real-time training groups in the exercise test. No significant differences were observed for decision-making accuracy in the 15 resting test for all groups. Conclusion: Above real-time video may not develop decision-making skills more effectively than real-time video for amateur Australian football umpires. For this cohort, the faster presentation of video may result in the umpires missing important perceptual cues. Real-time video-based training appears to be more beneficial for amateur officials than 150% above real-time speed.		[Kittel, Aden; Spittle, Michael] Victoria Univ, Footscray, Vic, Australia; [Elsworthy, Nathan] Cent Queensland Univ, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Kittel, Aden] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Footscray, Vic 3011, Australia								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000730080500001	53	Article; Article		
J	Runkel, Marco								Player Mobility and Competitive Balance Regulation in Professional Sports Leagues								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	4			479	500	15270025211059526	10.1177/15270025211059526			MAY 2022	2022	Competitive balance regulation is more widespread in North American than in Europan sports leagues. The present paper addresses the question whether this observation can be explained with the help of differences in the degree of player mobility. Using an extended version of the workhorse contest model of sports leagues, the paper shows that the answer depends on the kind of competitive balance regulation. While player mobility may help to explain the difference with respect to salary regulation (e.g., salary caps), the choice of revenue sharing schemes turns out to be independent of player mobility.		[Runkel, Marco] Tech Univ Berlin, Publ & Hlth Econ, Berlin, Germany; [Runkel, Marco] Tech Univ Berlin, Sch Econ & Management, H51,Str 17 Juni 135, D-10623 Berlin, Germany								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000732380800001	26	Article; Article		
J	Yim, Brian H.; Lyberger, Mark R.; Song, Doori								Push-pull analysis: the mediating role of promotion types relative to visit intention to a sports museum								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	2			346	368		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2020-0240			APR 5 2022	2022	Purpose Although sport museums are considered an important sector in nostalgia sport tourism, annual visitations of the major sport Hall of Fames (HoF) have been decreasing, often resulting in operational and financial difficulties for the HoF. The current study examined the relationship between sport museum image, motivation, constraints, monetary and non-monetary promotions (as a mediator), and visit intention among those who have attended or never attended. Design/methodology/approach Data was collected from the residents in the Northeast Ohio area via an online survey questionnaire using Qualtrics (N = 1,607). Two sets of data parameters were generated based on consumers previous visitation to Pro Football HoF (visited group n = 754; never-visited group n = 853) and each group's monetary and non-monetary promotion models (total of four models) were analyzed. Descriptive statistics and reliability tests were processed via IBM SPSS Statistics 26 and the structural relationships among the constructs were examined using SmartPLS 3. Findings Among all the antecedents, positive perceived image of HoF has been identified as the most significant predictor for both promotions and visit (revisit) intention. Social motivation was found to be a strong driver for visiting a sports museum regardless of the types of promotions. Promotions' mediation effects were found. The monetary promotion between cost constraints and visit intention implied, cost constraints can be mitigated through monetary promotion. Originality/value This is the first study examining the role of relationship between image, motivation, constraints and visit intention relative to sport museums. Results provide practical insights for the sport museum marketers and researchers relative to visit intension.		[Yim, Brian H.; Lyberger, Mark R.] Kent State Univ, Sch Fdn Leadership & Adm, Kent, OH 44242 USA; [Song, Doori] Youngstown State Univ, Williamson Coll Business Adm, Youngstown, OH 44555 USA; [Yim, Brian H.] Kent State Univ, Sch Fdn Leadership & Adm, Kent, OH 44242 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000730600500001	74	Article; Article		
J	Miedema, Sally Taunton; Mulvey, Kelly Lynn; Brian, Ali								"You Throw Like a Girl!": Young Children's Gender Stereotypes About Object Control Skills								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			294	298		10.1080/02701367.2021.1976374			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Understanding if children hold stereotypes about motor skills, may partially explain differences in object control performance between young boys and girls. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to examine whether young boys and girls held stereotypes related to object control skills. Methods: Children (N = 84) ages three years four months to five years seven months (Mage = 4.6 years, SD = .58) completed the Test of Gross Motor Development-Second Edition and a modified version of the Children's Occupations, Activities and Traits Measure. Spearman Rho correlations examined associations between children's stereotypes and actual object control skills performance. We then examined differences between boys' and girls' gender stereotypes (three for each category) and object control skills via independent samples t-tests. Results: Results showed significant associations between gender stereotypes toward object control skills and actual object control skills for girls (rho = -.31--.53, p < .05) but not for boys (rho = .10-.14, p > .05). Concurrently, girls showed significantly lower object control skills than boys (t[82] = 2.01; p = .042, d = .44) as well as significantly higher gender stereotypes across all three categories (p < .05, d = .54-1.77). Conclusion: These data indicated that girls, not boys, held gender stereotypes about object control skills in concert with lower object control skill performances. Future research should evaluate the impacts of an integrated gross motor intervention which seeks to change gender stereotypes and concurrently improve object control skill performance.		[Miedema, Sally Taunton; Brian, Ali] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Mulvey, Kelly Lynn] North Carolina State Univ, Raleigh, NC USA; [Miedema, Sally Taunton] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000730032600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Magalhaes de Souza, Wallace Machado; Vieira, Marcelo Carvalho; Correa Nascimento, Pablo Marino; Serra, Salvador Manoel; Kaufman, Renato; Pedrosa, Roberto Coury; Miranda, Humberto; Reis, Michel Silva								Association Between Upper Limb Strength Through 1-Repetition Maximum Test and V'O<sub>2peak</sub> in Heart Failure								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			845	850		10.1080/02701367.2021.1926897			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: This study aimed to evaluate whether there is a correlation between the maximum strength of upper limb when performing a multijoint exercise and peak oxygen uptake (V'O-2peak) in Chronic Heart Failure (CHF) subjects. Method: This cross-sectional study involved CHF subjects with a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) less than 50%, who underwent a cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET) on a treadmill and 1-repetition maximum (1-RM) test for upper limb strength using a bench press exercise. Results: The sample consisted of 16 individuals aged 54 +/- 12 years with a LVEF of 37 +/- 7%. The V'O-2peak was 14.98 +/- 5.4 ml center dot min(-1)center dot kg(-1) and mean maximum load in the 1-RM test was 38 +/- 16 kg. There was strong correlation of V'O-2peak with the load in the 1-RM test (r = 0.70; p = .037; r(2) = 0.48). Conclusion: There is a strong correlation between the load in 1-RM test for upper limb with V'O-2peak in CHF individuals. It is a safe, inexpensive and reproducible way to assess the muscle strength in this population.		[Magalhaes de Souza, Wallace Machado; Miranda, Humberto; Reis, Michel Silva] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Magalhaes de Souza, Wallace Machado; Vieira, Marcelo Carvalho; Serra, Salvador Manoel; Kaufman, Renato] Aloysio de Castro State Inst Cardiol, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Correa Nascimento, Pablo Marino] Natl Inst Cardiol, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Pedrosa, Roberto Coury; Reis, Michel Silva] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Clementino Fraga Filho Univ Hosp, Cardiol Inst Edson Saad, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Magalhaes de Souza, Wallace Machado] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Fac Physiotherapy, Res Grp Cardioresp Evaluat & Rehabil GECARE, 255 Prof Rodolpho Paulo Rocco St, BR-21941590 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000730081600001	25	Article; Article		
J	Guilkey, Justin P.; Culver, Meral; Wolfe, Matthew; Johnson, Kelly E.; Lauver, Jakob D.; Thompson, Jenna								Acute Physiological Responses to Moderate-Intensity Continuous, High-Intensity Interval, and Variable-Intensity Intermittent Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			82	91		10.1080/02701367.2021.1939845			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: This study examined acute physiological responses to moderate-intensity continuous exercise (MICE), variable-intensity intermittent exercise (VIIE), and high-intensity interval exercise (HIIE) protocol, matched for total work output in healthy adults (n = 8, age = 25.1 +/- 6.0 yrs). Methods: Three experimental trials were completed in a random order. MICE was continuous exercise at 40% of peak work rate (WRpeak). VIIE consisted of sixteen 10-sec bursts at 120% WRpeak, sixteen 20-sec bursts at 60% WRpeak and recovery at 20% WRpeak interspersed throughout the protocol. HIIE consisted of eight intervals of 2 minutes at 70% WRpeak and 1 minute at 20% WRpeak. Oxygen consumption during work-intervals and time within moderate and vigorous-intensity zones determined the magnitude and duration of physiological stresses. Perceptual responses were measured by affective response and post-exercise enjoyment (PACES). Repeated-measure ANOVAs analyzed differences between trials. Statistical significance was established if p <= 0.05. Results: Oxygen consumption during work-intervals in VIIE was greater than MICE, but less than HIIE. VIIE and HIIE had similar duration within vigorous-intensity zone (11.1 +/- 3.5 min vs. 13.5 +/- 1.3 min); both were greater than MICE (4.9 +/- 1.1 min). The time spent in the moderate-intensity zone was different between all trials (VIIE = 11.1 +/- 2.0 min; MICE = 17.4 +/- 5.2 min; HIIE = 4.9 +/- 0.4 min). Affective responses were similar among all trials. Post-exercise enjoyment was greater in VIIE than HIIE; both were not different from MICE. Conclusion: These results suggests the VIIE paradigm could be a viable alternative to HIIE and MICE protocols.		[Guilkey, Justin P.; Culver, Meral; Wolfe, Matthew; Johnson, Kelly E.; Lauver, Jakob D.; Thompson, Jenna] Coastal Carolina Univ, Conway, SC 29526 USA; [Guilkey, Justin P.] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Conway, SC 29526 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000730025600001	43	Article; Article		
J	Simonton, Kelly L.; Garn, Alex C.; Mercier, Kevin J.								Expanding the Discrete Emotions in Physical Education Scale (DEPES): Evaluating Emotions With Behavior and Learning								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			35	44		10.1080/02701367.2021.1935434			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: Students' affective experiences represent essential physical education (PE) learning outcomes. However, measuring these essential internal processes and understanding how they relate to behaviors has been difficult and limited thus far. The purpose of this study was to expand the Discrete Emotions in Physical Education Scale (DEPES) from the original three in-activity emotions (enjoyment, boredom, and anger) to include three additional outcome-related emotions (pride, shame, and relief). Method: Exploratory structural equation modeling (ESEM) analyses investigated the factor structure for the DEPES expansion with middle school (i.e., 6(th), 7(th), & 8(th) grade) students from the United States (N = 495; Mage = 11.96 (SD = .98), 57% Female). Additionally, we examined predictive validity with relevant outcomes including perceived social competence, disruptive behavior, and multiple meta-cognitive knowledge beliefs (declarative, conditional, and procedural). Results: ESEM for the six emotions showed good model fit. Standardized factor loadings yielded strong primary loadings with minimal cross loading, suggesting discriminant validity for both in-activity and outcome-related emotions. Also, predictive validity of students' disruptive behavior (21%), social competence (40%), and metacognitive knowledge (40-57%), accounted for a significant portion of knowledge variance. Conclusion: The six emotions measured by the DEPES can provide clear and precise information on students' affective experiences in PE. Furthermore, measuring a variety of discrete emotions can help researchers/teachers capture unique motivational tendencies in students' behavior and knowledge. The evidence speaks to how limiting general positive/negative affect may be when trying to understand students' motivation/behaviors in PE. Overall, the DEPES can make valuable contributions to PE research and practice.		[Simonton, Kelly L.] Univ Memphis, 214 Roane Fieldhouse, Memphis, TN 38152 USA; [Garn, Alex C.] Louisiana State Univ, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Mercier, Kevin J.] Adelphi Univ, Garden City, NY USA; [Simonton, Kelly L.] Univ Memphis, 214 Roane Fieldhouse, Memphis, TN 38152 USA								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000730045800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Watanabe, Kentaro; Koshino, Yuta; Ishida, Tomoya; Samukawa, Mina; Tohyama, Harukazu								Energy dissipation during single-leg landing from three heights in individuals with and without chronic ankle instability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	4			408	427		10.1080/14763141.2021.2009549			APR 21 2022	2022	Inadequate energy dissipation during landing may increase the risk of ankle sprain. Mechanical demands (landing height) in landing tasks may affect the biomechanical differences between individuals with and without chronic ankle instability (CAI). However, energy dissipation strategies during landing from various heights in individuals with CAI are unclear. The purpose of this study was to compare the effect of landing height on lower extremity biomechanics between individuals with and without CAI. Eleven participants in each of the CAI and Control group performed a single-leg landing from three heights (30, 40, and 50 cm). We calculated the contribution of each joint to total energy dissipation at 50-ms intervals during 0-200 ms post-initial contact (IC). Peak joint angles and moments and joint stiffnesses were calculated during 0-200 ms post-IC. Two-way mixed analysis of variance revealed significant group-by-height interactions for hip energy dissipation at 101-150 ms post-IC and peak ankle plantarflexion and hip extension moment. These significant interactions suggested that the effects of landing height on the ankle and hip joints differ between individuals with and without CAI. The effect of mechanical demands on altered landing biomechanics among CAI populations should be considered in biomechanical studies and clinical practice.		[Watanabe, Kentaro; Koshino, Yuta; Ishida, Tomoya; Samukawa, Mina; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Koshino, Yuta] NTT Med Ctr Sapporo, Rehabil Ctr, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Koshino, Yuta] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Koshino, Yuta] NTT Med Ctr Sapporo, Rehabil Ctr, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000728697500001	51	Article; Article		
J	Capaverde, Vinicius de Borba; Oliveira, Gabriel dos Santos; de Lima-e-Silva, Felipe Xavier; Araujo Ribeiro-Alvares, Joo Breno; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini								Do age and body size affect the eccentric knee flexor strength measured during the Nordic hamstring exercise in male soccer players?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2157	2167		10.1080/14763141.2021.2003850			NOV 1 2024	2024	The study aimed to verify how age, height, body mass and body mass index affects the eccentric knee flexor strength during the Nordic hamstring exercise (NHE) in male soccer players. Ten professional soccer clubs were included in this cross-sectional trial. Three hundred and eleven soccer players (192 from senior and 119 from under-20 teams) were assessed using a load-cell based device. Pearson's correlation tests were performed between peak force values (measured in Newtons) and age, height, body mass and body mass index. The individual-limb strength (n = 622 limbs) and the between-limb average strength (n = 322 players) presented no correlation with age (r = 0.12 for both) and height (r = 0.13; r = 0,15), and fair correlations with body mass (r = 0.37; r = 0,41) and body mass index (r = 0.40; r = 0,43). In conclusion, the male soccer players' eccentric knee flexor strength measured during the NHE execution is not affected by age or height. Body mass and body mass index play somewhat effect on strength, thus normalising absolute strength measures by body mass or body mass index can provide more accurate analysis in some contexts.		[Capaverde, Vinicius de Borba; Oliveira, Gabriel dos Santos; de Lima-e-Silva, Felipe Xavier; Araujo Ribeiro-Alvares, Joo Breno; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000728467900001	40	Article; Article		
J	Maennig, Wolfgang; Schumann, Viktoria C. E.								Prevention Effect of News Shocks in Anti-Doping Policies								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	4			431	459	15270025211059528	10.1177/15270025211059528			MAY 2022	2022	This paper contributes to the debate on anti-doping policies not by evaluating the policy itself but by evaluating the announcement of (new) policy measures. We develop a dynamic model for analyzing the effects of two different types of news shocks: (1) the preannouncement of improved drug testing technological opportunities and (2) the preannouncement of future increases in financial sanctions. We find that the anticipation of policy changes affects the behavior of potentially delinquent athletes. In both scenarios, our simulations show immediately reduced drug abuse among athletes. We conclude that authorities may consider news shocks as an anti-doping strategy.		[Maennig, Wolfgang; Schumann, Viktoria C. E.] Univ Hamburg, Dept Econ, Von Melle Pk 5, D-20146 Hamburg, Germany; [Maennig, Wolfgang] Univ Hamburg, Dept Econ, Von Melle Pk 5, D-20146 Hamburg, Germany								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000730594600001	96	Article; Article		
J	Brooks, Edward R.; Benson, Amanda C.; Fox, Aaron S.; Bruce, Lyndell M.								Quantifying jumps and external load in netball using VERT inertial measurement units								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2209	2218		10.1080/14763141.2021.2009906			NOV 1 2024	2024	This study assesses the relationship between an inexpensive and an established inertial measurement device for the measurement of movement and jumps in netball. Twenty-five female netballers participated in this study (11 elite and 14 sub-elite). Two inertial measurement devices (Catapult ClearSky T6 and VERT Classic) were worn simultaneously during a training session. The 'Kinetic Energy' output provided by the VERT device was compared to the total PlayerLoad collected by the ClearSky T6 device. Automated total jump counts were also compared across devices. A correlation of r = 0.76 (95% confidence interval [CI]; 0.52 to 0.89) was identified between total PlayerLoad and 'Kinetic Energy'. Similarly, a correlation of r = 0.81 (95% CI; 0.61 to 0.91) was identified for the relationship between ClearSky T6 jump count and VERT jump count. Mean bias of 1.7 jumps (95% CI; -2.5 to 5.8) with 95% limits of agreement (-17.9 to 21.3) were found when comparing the jump counts between the ClearSky T6 and VERT devices. The correlations found in this study indicate that the VERT devices may be an accessible alternative for sub-elite athletes; however, the wide confidence intervals and limits of agreement warrant caution.		[Brooks, Edward R.; Fox, Aaron S.; Bruce, Lyndell M.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Ctr Sport Res, Burwood, Australia; [Benson, Amanda C.] Swinburne Univ, Dept Hlth & Biostat, Sport Innovat Res Grp, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Brooks, Edward R.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Ctr Sport Res, Burwood, Australia								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000727150300001	30	Article; Article		
J	Raman, Prashant; Aashish, Kumar								Gym users: an enabler in creating an acceptance of sports and fitness wearable devices in India								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	4			707	726		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2021-0168			AUG 19 2022	2022	Purpose There are two-fold objectives to this research. First is to analyse the importance of technology readiness (TR) for the users in using sports and fitness wearable devices in India. And second is to explore if gymnasium (gym) users are much more technologically ready as compared to non-gym users to use sports and fitness wearable devices. Design/methodology/approach The study uses technology readiness and acceptance model (TRAM) to examine the users' intention to use sports and fitness wearable devices. Data from a survey of 907 respondents from India were collected and partial least squares (PLS)-structural equation modelling (SEM) technique was used to empirically examine it. Findings The outcomes reveal that innovativeness and optimism have a positive influence on perceived ease of use (PEOU) and perceived usefulness (PU), and insecurity and discomfort have a negative influence on PEOU and PU. Both PEOU and PU act as important determinants in the user's intention to use sports and fitness wearable devices. The multi-group analysis (MGA) suggests that gym users tend to exhibit more positive intention towards using sports and fitness wearable devices and show higher probability of using the wearable devices relative to non-gym users. Originality/value There are hardly any studies on intention to use sports and fitness wearable devices in India. The current research tries to understand the intention behind the gym users and non-gym users to use sports and fitness wearable devices. The outcomes of the research will help the marketers to align their promotional campaign based on the new segmentation variable "gym-user/non-gym user". The research also highlights the importance of TR in the use of sports and fitness wearable devices in India.		[Raman, Prashant] Inst Publ Enterprise, Management, Hyderabad, India; [Aashish, Kumar] Jaipuria Inst Management, Management, Noida, India; [Raman, Prashant] Inst Publ Enterprise, Management, Hyderabad, India								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000728198000001	58	Article; Article		
J	Yadav, Jitendra; Misra, Madhvendra; Rana, Nripendra P.; Singh, Kuldeep; Goundar, Sam								Netizens' behavior towards a blockchain-based esports framework: a TPB and machine learning integrated approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	4			665	683		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2021-0130			AUG 19 2022	2022	Purpose Based on the concepts confined in Ajzen's theory of planned behavior (TPB), this study investigates users' attitudes towards adoption of a blockchain-based framework in the esports industry that proposes a scheme of rewarding stakeholders for their invested attention along with blockchain technology's inherent protocols. Design/methodology/approach The present study uses RStudio (Version 1.3.1093) package RedditExtractoR for scraping and analysis of the discussion referring to the keyword "Verasity" on the Reddit website. The final corpus of 1,913 user comments was considered for the study. Sentiment analysis was initially conducted to explore the semantic orientation of the users concerning Verasity. This was followed by generalized equation modeling to analyze the impact of social media attributed to the users' commenting behavior. Findings The study found that Redditors, in general, have a positive attitude towards the adoption of a blockchain-based esports platform. This was validated through the empirical findings. The regression model states that there is a significant positive impact of the positivity in the comments over the Redditors' attitude and in their commenting behavior. Originality/value This study offers a new understanding of key contributing attributes of sentiment formation over social media concerning a blockchain-based esports framework. The study also establishes an empirical relationship between the social media attributes and the commenting behavior of Redditors. Finally, the current study offers valuable insights into social media engagements and the selection of highly influential Redditors for practicing marketing managers.		[Yadav, Jitendra; Misra, Madhvendra] Indian Inst Informat Technol Allahabad, Dept Management Studies, Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Rana, Nripendra P.] Qatar Univ, Coll Business & Econ, Dept Management & Mkt, Doha, Qatar; [Singh, Kuldeep] Koneru Lakshmaiah Educ Fdn, Dept Commerce, Guntur, Andhra Pradesh, India; [Goundar, Sam] RMIT Univ, Hanoi, Vietnam; [Yadav, Jitendra] Indian Inst Informat Technol Allahabad, Dept Management Studies, Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000728198600001	82	Article; Article		
J	Brown, Natalie; Knight, Camilla J.								Understanding female coaches' and practitioners' experience and support provision in relation to the menstrual cycle								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			235	243	17479541211058579	10.1177/17479541211058579			APR 2022	2022	The study aimed to develop an understanding of female coaches' and sport science practitioners' experience and support provision in relation to the menstrual cycle when working with female athletes. Following receipt of institutional ethical approval, 14 female coaches and practitioners (32.9 +/- 6.9 years) participated in individual semi-structured interviews. Following analysis, two themes were developed: (1) Knowledge and awareness and (2) Support and management. Overall, it appeared that participants varied in their understanding and awareness of the impact of the menstrual cycle on sport performance, somewhat influenced by their own personal experiences. Participants' knowledge and awareness subsequently impacted the support they provided to female athletes. Additionally, individual experiences and perceived secrecy relating to the menstrual cycle impacted on the informational and emotional support participants provided. Together, the findings highlight the importance of all coaches and practitioners enhancing their knowledge and understanding regarding the menstrual cycle and proactively providing support to athletes. Education to enhance coaches' and practitioners' knowledge and understanding will help to create a more open and supportive environment in sport, hopefully allowing for personal discomfort regarding the menstrual cycle to be addressed.		[Brown, Natalie; Knight, Camilla J.] Swansea Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Brown, Natalie; Knight, Camilla J.] Swansea Univ, Welsh Inst Performance Sci, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Knight, Camilla J.] Univ Adger, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Kristiansand, Norway; [Brown, Natalie] Swansea Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Swansea, W Glam, Wales								47							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000727983000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Dwyer, Brendan; Hayduk, Ted, III; Drayer, Joris								A comparative analysis of sports gambling in the United States								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	4			684	706		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2021-0074			AUG 19 2022	2022	Purpose The purpose of the study was to explore differences in demographic, self-concept and fan behavior factors that predict sports fans who bet and those who do not in legal and illegal gambling jurisdictions in the United States (US). Design/methodology/approach Seven hundred and eighty-nine sports fans and bettors from 47 states were surveyed through a partnership with a major media provider in the US. A number of demographic items, theoretically defined factors and fan behaviors were measured, and several two-way MANOVAs with interaction effects were conducted to determine differences between those who gamble and those who do not in legal and illegal jurisdictions. Findings Statistically significant differences between those who bet and those who do not were found. Bettors look different and come from different backgrounds and locations. Psychographically, they were clearly more narcissistic. They also indicated a higher social identity and self-worth, yet perceived themselves as less worthy members of important social institutions. In general, sports bettors out consumed non-bettors as it relates sports spectatorship. In terms of differences between the groups across legal and illegal states, only a few factors were impacted. Self-worth and personal identity were factors that were found to be different between groups and jurisdictions as well as DFS participation. Originality/value The US sports gambling market is expected to grow US$6.5 billion in the next five years, yet very little is known, psychographically, about the US sports bettor. Sports gambling research, especially from a marketing perspective, has primarily been limited to Australia and the United Kingdom. This paper contributes to what we know about sports gambling and the emerging US market. In particular, the results uncovered fundamental trait, demographic and behavioral differences between US sports fans and sports bettors. The findings also provide similar foundational differences and similarities between those who bet in states with legal and illegal gambling.		[Dwyer, Brendan] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Richmond, VA 23284 USA; [Hayduk, Ted, III] NYU, New York, NY USA; [Drayer, Joris] Temple Univ, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Dwyer, Brendan] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Richmond, VA 23284 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000728143300001	86	Article; Article		
J	Ramos, Ana Sofia; Hammerschmidt, Jonas; Ribeiro, Antonio Sergio; Lima, Francisco; Kraus, Sascha								Rethinking dual careers: success factors for career transition of professional football players and the role of sport entrepreneurship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	5			881	900		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2021-0029			SEP 21 2022	2022	Purpose The purpose of this longitudinal study is to examine the dual career and entrepreneurial experiences of professional football players and their influence on the career transition process to entrepreneurship or employment. Design/methodology/approach The study examined a Portuguese employer-employee data set from 1991 to 2017 using the logit model, a binary choice regression model that allows predicting the probabilities of two possible qualitative and binary outcomes. Findings Entrepreneurial experience is the key driver for retired football players to pursue entrepreneurship. Having a dual career and working during the athletic career leads to higher chances of continuing in the labor market as an employee. Higher education levels did not significantly influence the decision to pursue a second career but having secondary education increases the chances of continuing as an entrepreneur. Research limitations/implications First, the study aims to shed light on success factors in career transition of professional football players who engage in a dual career. Second, the authors introduce sport entrepreneurship as a possible activity alongside an athletic career. Practical implications Athletes can benefit from the experience they gain during a dual career in the process of career transition. Working in the final year of an athletic career represents a promising strategy to gain work experience alongside sport without jeopardizing sporting success. Originality/value This study adds evidence to the contemporary discourse on dual career theory and career transitions and reconciles the theory of sport entrepreneurship and dual careers.		[Ramos, Ana Sofia] Univ Lisbon, Inst Super Tecn, Lisbon, Portugal; [Hammerschmidt, Jonas] Lappeenranta Univ Technol, Sch Business & Management, Lappeenranta, Finland; [Ribeiro, Antonio Sergio; Lima, Francisco] Univ Lisbon, Inst Super Tecn, CEG IST, Lisbon, Portugal; [Kraus, Sascha] Free Univ Bozen Bolzano, Fac Econ & Management, Bolzano, Italy; [Hammerschmidt, Jonas] Lappeenranta Univ Technol, Sch Business & Management, Lappeenranta, Finland								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000728142900001	65	Article; Article		
J	Edler, Christopher; Droste, Jan-Niklas; Anemueller, Ruben; Pietsch, Aki; Gebhardt, Matthias; Riepenhof, Helge								Injuries in elite road cyclists during competition in one UCI WorldTour season: a prospective epidemiological study of incidence and injury burden								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	2			129	138		10.1080/00913847.2021.2009744			MAR 4 2023	2023	To measure and evaluate the extent and characteristics of accidents and injuries in professional cycling competitions at the elite level (UCI WorldTour 2019) during one complete season. Methods Fifty-four male athletes from two different teams were involved. Accidents and injuries were recorded immediately after the incident by a team physician present at every race. Exposure, location, type and cause of injury have been recorded. Incidence was calculated. Severity was measured as a cumulative severity score and burden depicted in a risk matrix. Results Total time of exposure was 12537 hours over 3524 athlete days and 544002 kilometers of racing. 98 accidents were recorded, with 83 leading to injury. The total number of recorded injuries was 193. Injury incidence for all injuries was 54,8 (+/- SD 47,7-62,8) /1000 athlete days, 15,4 (+/- SD 13,4-17,7) /1000 athlete hours and 35,5 (+/- SD 30,8-40,8) /100.000 km raced. By far the most frequent types of injury were hematomas, contusions and bruising (n = 141, 73%) followed by lacerations (n = 22; 11,4%). Most injuries affected the arm and elbow (n = 34, 17,6%) followed by the shoulder and clavicle (n = 28, 14,5%) and occurred with contact (79%). Fractures pose a high injury burden due to long time loss, whereas hematomas, contusions and bruising showed the highest incidence numbers but comparably less time loss. Conclusion Road cyclists' injuries have been underestimated in previous studies. Hematomas, contusions and bruising pose the highest number of injuries with a broad degree of severity and range of injury burden. Fractures are less common but show the highest injury burden. The upper extremities are involved the most.		[Edler, Christopher; Droste, Jan-Niklas; Pietsch, Aki; Riepenhof, Helge] Univ Med Ctr Hamburg Eppendorf, Dept Prevent Rehabil & Interdisciplinary Sports M, Teaching Hosp, Bg Hosp Hamburg, Bergedorferstr 10, D-21033 Hamburg, Germany; [Droste, Jan-Niklas; Riepenhof, Helge] RB Leipzig Football Club, Dept Med & Sports Sci, Leipzig, Germany; [Anemueller, Ruben] Univ Med Ctr Hambur, Dept Trauma Orthoped Surg & Sports Traumatol, BG Hosp Hamburg, Teaching Hosp, Hamburg, Germany; [Gebhardt, Matthias] Pk Clin Manhagen, Dept Surg & Sports Traumatol, Grosshansdorf, Germany; [Edler, Christopher] Univ Med Ctr Hamburg Eppendorf, Dept Prevent Rehabil & Interdisciplinary Sports M, Teaching Hosp, Bg Hosp Hamburg, Bergedorferstr 10, D-21033 Hamburg, Germany								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000725474100001	36	Article; Article		
J	Qin, Yu; Wu, Jing; Zhang, Rongjie								Can Professional Football Players Adapt to Air Pollution? Evidence From China								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	3			277	300	15270025211049793	10.1177/15270025211049793			APR 2022	2022	In this paper, we study the impact of air pollution on Chinese professional football players' performance. Our primary research question is whether the negative effects of air pollution can be mitigated by adaptation, and which cohort of players can have higher adaptability. We find that a higher pollution level during the game, relative to the adapted pollution level in players' home cities, has a negative and significant impact on the players' efforts and accuracy. The impact of non-adapted air pollution can be greatly offset by the home advantage, but not by personal attributes such as the higher ability.		[Qin, Yu] Natl Univ Singapore, Dept Real Estate, Singapore, Singapore; [Wu, Jing; Zhang, Rongjie] Tsinghua Univ, Dept Construct Management, Hang Lung Ctr Real Estate, Heshanheng Bldg, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Rongjie] Tsinghua Univ, Dept Construct Management, Hang Lung Ctr Real Estate, Heshanheng Bldg, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000727890400001	26	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.; Dulla, Joseph M.; Orr, Robin M.; Dawes, J. Jay								The 20-m Multistage Fitness Test and 2.4-km Run: Applications to Law Enforcement Fitness Assessment								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	6			68	75		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000637			DEC 2021	2021	Aerobic fitness tests are common in testing protocols for law enforcement candidates, recruits, and officers because of the importance of aerobic fitness for academy survivability and job task performance. Two popular tests are the 2.4-km run and 20-m multistage fitness test (20MSFT). The differences, strengths, and limitations for both tests are discussed in this article, with a focus on the pacing required in each test. The 2.4-km run typically uses an internal pacing strategy, while the 20MSFT features an external pacing strategy because of the audible beeps that increase the running speed in the test. For the 2.4-km run, self-motivation is required to complete the event, whereas for the 20MSFT, the external pacing requirement is more typical of a police foot pursuit where the offender dictates the pace. This may have greater application to job tasks, where pacing is often determined by external sources (e.g., pursuing and apprehending an offender). In addition, for the 20MSFT, the limited space required and ability to test indoors may make it more applicable for testing law enforcement personnel. Where possible, staff should explore the use of the most appropriate aerobic fitness test for use in their personnel, be it the 20MSFT or the 2.4-km run.		[Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Dulla, Joseph M.] Los Angeles Cty Sheriffs Dept, Training Bur, Recruit Training Unit, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Dulla, Joseph M.; Orr, Robin M.] Bond Univ, Tact Res Unit, Robina, Australia; [Dawes, J. Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000728300600008	68	Article; Article		
J	Miller, Joshua M.								Aerobic and Resistance Training for Individuals With Spinal Cord Injuries								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	6			1	8		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000672			DEC 2021	2021	Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a result of disease or injury that results in the loss of sensory, motor, and autonomic function, or a combination of these functions below the level of injury. Research suggests that, along with medical treatment, exercise may aid in the maintaining of cardiovascular, muscular, and osteogenic health in individuals with an SCI. Practices, contraindications, special considerations, and general recommendations for whole-body cardiorespiratory and resistance exercise programming and progression for individuals with an SCI are discussed throughout.		[Miller, Joshua M.] Univ Illinois, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr, Chicago, IL 60607 USA; [Miller, Joshua M.] Univ Illinois, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr, Chicago, IL 60607 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000728300600001	29	Article; Article		
J	Magalhaes de Souza, Wallace Machado; Correa Nascimento, Pablo Marino; Vieira, Marcelo Carvalho								Importance of Muscle Strength in Chronic Heart Failure								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	6			9	13		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000683			DEC 2021	2021	Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a complex syndrome characterized by dyspnea, exercise intolerance, and quality-of-life impairment. The compensatory physiological mechanisms of this disease may promote muscle wasting and reduction in muscle strength, which are independent predictors of mortality. Therefore, the evaluation of muscle strength in patients with CHF is essential for the prognosis of the disease and the evaluation of interventions. Besides that, strategies to increase muscle strength should be performed to improve this outcome.		[Magalhaes de Souza, Wallace Machado; Vieira, Marcelo Carvalho] Aloysio de Castro State Inst Cardiol, Ctr Cardiol & Exercise, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Magalhaes de Souza, Wallace Machado] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Correa Nascimento, Pablo Marino] Natl Inst Cardiol, Cardiac Rehabil Serv, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Correa Nascimento, Pablo Marino] Fluminense Fed Univ, Antonio Pedro Univ Hosp, Cardiac Rehabil Serv, Niteroi, RJ, Brazil; [Magalhaes de Souza, Wallace Machado] Aloysio de Castro State Inst Cardiol, Ctr Cardiol & Exercise, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Magalhaes de Souza, Wallace Machado] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000728300600002	36	Article; Article		
J	Lentine, Tim; Johnson, Quincy; Lockie, Robert; Joyce, Jill; Orr, Rob; Dawes, Jay								Occupational Challenges to the Development and Maintenance of Physical Fitness Within Law Enforcement Officers								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	6			115	118					DEC 2021	2021	Law enforcement officers must perform physically demanding tasks as part of their job duties. Consequently, law enforcement officers must possess an adequate level of physical fitness to perform these activities safely and effectively. Ironically, most of an officer's shift time is sedentary. This, in addition to other occupational challenges, may make it difficult for officers to develop and maintain fitness across the occupational life span. This is concerning when considering that physical fitness is associated with their occupational task performance. In this column, the unique challenges law enforcement officers experience when trying to maintain health and occupational fitness are discussed.		[Lentine, Tim] 4th Infantry Div, World Class Athlete Program, Ft Carson, CA USA; [Lentine, Tim] 4th Infantry Div, Ft Carson, CA USA; [Lentine, Tim] 759th Mil Police, Ft Carson, CA USA; [Johnson, Quincy] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Lockie, Robert] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Strength & Conditioning, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Joyce, Jill] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Nutr Sci, Publ Hlth Nutr, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Orr, Rob] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Southport, Qld, Australia; [Dawes, Jay] Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Appl Exercise Sci, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Dawes, Jay] Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Appl Exercise Sci, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000728300600013	38	Article; Article		
J	Natsume, Toshiharu; Ozaki, Hayao; Nakagata, Takashi; Yoshihara, Toshinori; Kitada, Tomoharu; Ishihara, Yoshihiko; Deng, Pengyu; Osawa, Takuya; Sawada, Shuji; Kobayashi, Hiroyuki; Machida, Shuich; Naito, Hisashi								Site-Specific Muscle Loss in the Abdomen and Anterior Thigh in Elderly Males with Locomotive Syndrome								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			635	641		10.52082/jssm.2021.635			DEC 2021	2021	Although locomotive syndrome (LS) is a condition of reduced mobility, little information is available regarding the loss of site specific skeletal muscle mass. The aim of the present study is to examine site-specific muscle loss in elderly males with LS. A total of 100 men ranging in age from 65 to 74 years were divided into two groups (LS and non-LS) using LS risk tests including the stand-up test, two-step test, and the 25-question geriatric locomotive function scale Muscle thickness (MTH) at eight sites-anterior and posterior thigh (AT and PT, respectively), anterior and posterior lower leg (AL and PL, respectively), rectus abdominis (RA), anterior and posterior upper arm (AU and PU, respectively), and anterior forearm (AF)-was evaluated using B-mode ultrasound. Furthermore, the 30-s chair stand test (CS-30), 10-m walking time, zig-zag walking time, and sit-up test were assessed as physical functions. There were no significant differences in age and body mass index between the LS and non-LS groups. The percentage of skeletal muscle was lower in the LS group than in the non-LS group. Although there were no differences in the MTH of AU, PU, AF, PT, Al and PL, site-specific muscle loss was observed at RA and AT in the LS group. CS-30, 10-m walking time, zig-zag walking time, and sit-up test in the LS group were all worse than those in the non-LS group. The MTHs of RA and AT were both correlated to those physical functions. In conclusion, the LS group had site-specific muscle loss and worse physical functions. This study suggests that site-specific changes may be associated with age-related physical functions. These results may suggest what the essential characteristics of LS are.		[Natsume, Toshiharu; Yoshihara, Toshinori; Osawa, Takuya; Sawada, Shuji; Machida, Shuich; Naito, Hisashi] Juntendo Univ, COI Project Ctr, Bunkyo Ku, 2-1-1 Hongo, Tokyo 1138421, Japan; [Ozaki, Hayao; Nakagata, Takashi; Yoshihara, Toshinori; Kitada, Tomoharu; Ishihara, Yoshihiko; Deng, Pengyu; Machida, Shuich; Naito, Hisashi] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-1 Hirakagakuendai, Chiba 2701695, Japan; [Natsume, Toshiharu] Tokai Univ, Sch Med, Dept Human Struct & Funct, Shimokasuya, Kanagawa, Japan; [Ozaki, Hayao] Tokai Gakuen Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Miyoshi, Aichi, Japan; [Nakagata, Takashi] NIBIOHN, Natl Inst Hlth & Nutr, Dept Phys Act Res, Tokyo 1628636, Japan; [Kitada, Tomoharu] Seijoh Univ, Fac Business Adm, 2-172 Fukinodai, Tokai, Aichi 4768588, Japan; [Ishihara, Yoshihiko] Tokyo Denki Univ, Sch Sci & Technol Future Life, Dept Humanities & Social Sci, Adachi Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Osawa, Takuya] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Sports & Hlth Sci, Setagaya Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Kobayashi, Hiroyuki] Mito Med Ctr, Tsukuba Univ Hosp, 3-2-7 Miyamachi, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Machida, Shuich; Naito, Hisashi] Juntendo Univ, Inst Hlth & Sports Sci & Med, 1-1 Hirakagakuendai, Chiba, Japan; [Machida, Shuich] Juntendo Univ, COI Project Ctr, Bunkyo Ku, 2-1-1 Hongo, Tokyo 1138421, Japan; [Machida, Shuich] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-1 Hirakagakuendai, Chiba 2701695, Japan; [Machida, Shuich] Juntendo Univ, Inst Hlth & Sports Sci & Med, 1-1 Hirakagakuendai, Chiba, Japan								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300006	32	Article; Article		
J	Coelho, Tiago M.; Nunes, Renan F. H.; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Duffield, Rob; Serpa, Marilia C.; da Silva, Juliano F.; Carminatt, Lorival J.; Cidral-Filho, Francisco J.; Goldim, Mariana P.; Mathias, Khiany; Petronilho, Fabricia; Martins, Daniel F.; Guglielmo, Luiz G. A.								Post-Match Recovery in Soccer with Far-Infrared Emitting Ceramic Material or Cold-Water Immersion								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			732	742		10.52082/jssm.2021.732			DEC 2021	2021	We investigated the effects of two common recovery methods; far-infrared emitting ceramic materials (Bioceramic) or cold-wa-ter immersion on muscular function and damage after a soccer match. Twenty-five university-level soccer players were random-ized into Bioceramic (BIO; n = 8), Cold-water immersion (CWI; n = 9), or Control (CON; n = 8) groups. Heart rate [HR], rating of perceived exertion [RPE], and activity profile through Global Positioning Satellite Systems were measured during the match. Biochemical (thiobarbituric acid reactive species [TBARS], su-peroxide dismutase [SOD], creatine kinase [CK], lactate dehydro-genase [LDH]), neuromuscular (countermovement [CMJ] and squat jump [SJ], sprints [20-m]), and perceptual markers (de-layed-onset muscle soreness [DOMS], and the perceived recov-ery scale [PRS]) were assessed at pre, post, 24 h, and 48 h post-match. One-way ANOVA was used to compare anthropometric and match performance data. A two-way ANOVA with post-hoc tests compared the timeline of recovery measures. No significant differences existed between groups for anthropometric or match load measures (P 0.05), without differences between conditions (p 0.05), without significant differences between conditions (p 0.05). Despite the expected post-match muscle damage and impaired performance, neither Bioceramic nor CWI interventions improved post-match recovery.		[Coelho, Tiago M.; Nunes, Renan F. H.; Serpa, Marilia C.; da Silva, Juliano F.; Guglielmo, Luiz G. A.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Phys Effort Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] UPE UFPB, Associate Grad Program Phys Educ, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Duffield, Rob] Univ Technol, Sport & Exercise Discipline Grp, Moore Pk, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Carminatt, Lorival J.] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Hlth Sci & Sports Ctr, Human Performance Res Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Cidral-Filho, Francisco J.; Mathias, Khiany; Martins, Daniel F.] Univ Southern Santa Catarina, Lab Expt Neurosci, Palhoca, SC, Brazil; [Cidral-Filho, Francisco J.; Mathias, Khiany; Martins, Daniel F.] Univ Southern Santa Catarina, Grad Program Hlth Sci, Palhoca, SC, Brazil; [Goldim, Mariana P.; Petronilho, Fabricia] Univ Southern Santa Catarina, Lab Neurobiol Inflammatory & Metab Proc, Tubarao, SC, Brazil; [Coelho, Tiago M.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Phys Effort Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300016	41	Article; Article		
J	Schroeder, Jan; Wilke, Jan; Hollander, Karsten								Effects of Foam Rolling Duration on Tissue Stiffness and Perfusion: A Randomized Cross-Over Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			626	634		10.52082/jssm.2021.626			DEC 2021	2021	Despite its beneficial effects on flexibility and muscle soreness, there is still conflicting evidence regarding dose-response relationships and underlying mechanisms of foam rolling (FR). This study aimed to investigate the impact of different FR protocols on tissue perfusion and tissue stiffness. In a randomized crossover trial, two FR protocols (2x1 min, 2x3 min) were applied to the right anterior thigh of twenty healthy volunteers (11 females, 25 +/- 4 years). Tissue perfusion (near infrared spectroscopy, NIRS) and stiffness (Tensiomyography, TMG and Myotonometry, MMT) were assessed before and after FR application. Variance analyses revealed a significant interaction of FR duration and tissue perfusion (F-[1,F-19] = 7.098, p = 0.015). Local blood flow increased significantly from pre to post test (F-[1,F-19] = 7.589, p = 0.013), being higher (Delta +9.7%) in the long-FR condition than in the short-FR condition (Delta +2.8%). Tissue stiffness (MMT) showed significant main effects for time (F-[1,F-19] = 12.074, p = 0.003) and condition (F-[1,F-19] = 7.165, p = 0.015) with decreases after short-FR (Delta -1.6%) and long-FR condition (Delta -1.9%). However, there was no time*dose-interaction (F-[1,F-19] = 0.018, p = 0.895). No differences were found for TMG (p > 0.05). FR induced changes failed to exceed the minimal detectable change threshold (MDC). Our data suggest that increased blood flow and altered tissue stiffness may mediate the effects of FR although statistical MDC thresholds were not achieved. Longer FR durations seem to be more beneficial for perfusion which is of interest for exercise professionals designing warm-up and cool-down regimes. Further research is needed to understand probable effects on parasympathetic outcomes representing systemic physiological responses to locally applied FR stimulations.		[Schroeder, Jan] Univ Hamburg, Fac Psychol & Human Movement Sci, Dept Sports & Exercise Med, Hamburg, Germany; [Wilke, Jan] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Med, Theodor Stern Kai 7, D-60590 Frankfurt, Germany; [Hollander, Karsten] MSH Med Sch Hamburg, Inst Interdisciplinary Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Hamburg, Germany; [Wilke, Jan] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Med, Theodor Stern Kai 7, D-60590 Frankfurt, Germany								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300005	43	Article; Article		
J	Costa, Mario J.; Garrido, Nuno D.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Santos, Catarina C.								How Much the Swimming Performance Leading to Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games Was Impaired Due to the Covid-19 Lockdown?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			714	720		10.52082/jssm.2021.714			DEC 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to analyze the progression and stability in the performance of world-ranked swimmers from 2015 to 2020, and the impairment induced by the COVID-19 lockdown. An observational retrospective design over five consecutive com-petitive seasons was selected. FINA ' s male Top-50 who were qualified for the Tokyo Olympic Games were considered in free-style, backstroke, backstroke, and butterfly events. A total of 515 male swimmers and 2060 season-best performances were ana-lyzed. All data was retrieved from two open-access and public websites (Swimrankings and Swimcloud). Repeated measures ANOVA followed by the Bonferroni post-hoc test was performed to analyze the variation between seasons. Stabilization in perfor-mance was assessed using spearman correlation coefficients. A significant improvement in performance approximate to 0.5-2.5% was found in most of the strokes and race distances until the 2018-2019 season. The 2020 lockdown impaired the performance by 1-2%. Moder-ate to high associations were found in the 2017-2018 season when considering the 2019-2020 performance. The breaststroke was the only stroke with a moderate-high stability (r > 0.40) in all race distances considering the overall time period. It can be concluded that world-ranked swimmers' performance was impaired by 1-2% due to the COVID-19 lockdown, returning to levels that were reached two years earlier.		[Costa, Mario J.; Santos, Catarina C.] Polytech Inst Guarda, Dept Sport Sci, Guarda, Portugal; [Costa, Mario J.; Garrido, Nuno D.; Marinho, Daniel A.; Santos, Catarina C.] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Garrido, Nuno D.] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth, Vila Real, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.; Santos, Catarina C.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Santos, Catarina C.] Polytech Inst Guarda, Dept Sport Sci, Guarda, Portugal								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300014	24	Article; Article		
J	Piedra, Aitor; Caparros, Toni; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi; Pena, Javier								Internal and External Load Control in Team Sports through a Multivariable Model								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			751	758		10.52082/jssm.2021.751			DEC 2021	2021	Data related to 141 sessions of 10 semi-professional basketball players were analyzed during the competitive period of the 2018-2019 season using a multivariable model to determine possible associations between internal and external load variables and fa-tigue. Age, height, weight, sessional rate of perceived exertion (sRPE), summated-heart-rate-zones, heart rate variability, total accelerations and decelerations were the covariates, and post -ses-sion countermovement jump loss (10% or higher) the response variable. Based on the results observed, a rise in sRPE and accel-erations and decelerations could be associated with increased lower-body neuromuscular fatigue. Observing neuromuscular fa-tigue was 1,008 times higher with each additional sRPE arbitrary unit (AU). Each additional high-intensity effort also increased the probability of significant levels of neuromuscular fatigue by 1,005 times. Fatigue arising from demanding sporting activities is acknowledged as a relevant inciting event leading to injuries. Thus, the methodology used in this study can be used then to monitor neuromuscular fatigue onset, also enhancing proper indi-vidual adaptations to training.		[Piedra, Aitor; Caparros, Toni] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ & Sport Catalonia, Av Estadi 12-22, E-08038 Barcelona, Spain; [Piedra, Aitor; Vicens-Bordas, Jordi; Pena, Javier] Univ Catalonia, Univ Vic Cent, Sport & Phys Activ Studies Ctr, Barcelona, Spain; [Caparros, Toni; Pena, Javier] Univ Catalonia, Univ Vic Cent, Sport Performance Anal Res Grp, Barcelona, Spain; [Vicens-Bordas, Jordi] Univ Girona, Res Grp Clin Anat Embryol & Neurosci, Dept Med Sci, Girona, Spain; [Vicens-Bordas, Jordi] Univ Girona, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Girona, Spain; [Caparros, Toni] Univ Barcelona, Natl Inst Phys Educ & Sport Catalonia, Av Estadi 12-22, E-08038 Barcelona, Spain								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300018	70	Article; Article		
J	Feland, Brent; Hopkins, Andy C.; Behm, David G.								Acute Hemodynamic Responses to Three Types of Hamstrings Stretching in Senior Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			690	698		10.52082/jssm.2021.690			DEC 2021	2021	Although stretching is recommended for fitness and health, there is little research on the effects of different stretching routines on hemodynamic responses of senior adults. It is not clear whether stretching can be considered an aerobic exercise stimulus or may be contraindicated for the elderly. The purpose of this study was to compare the effect of three stretching techniques; contract/re-lax proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF), passive straight-leg raise (SLR), and static sit-and-reach (SR) on heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP) in senior athletes (119 partici-pants: 65.6 +/- 7.6 yrs.). Systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and HR measurements were taken at baseline (after 5-minutes in a supine position), 45 and 90-seconds, during the stretch, and 2-minutes after stretching. Within each stretching group, (SLR, PNF, and SR) DBP, MAP and HR at pre-test and 2-min post-stretch were lower than at 45-s and 90-s during the stretch. SLR induced smaller increases in DBP and MAP than PNF and SR, whereas PNF elicited lower HR responses than SR. In conclusion, trained senior adult athletes experienced small to moderate magnitude in-creases of hemodynamic responses with SLR, SR and PNF stretching, which recovered to baseline values within 2-min after stretching. Furthermore, the passive SLR induced smaller in-creases in BP than PNF and SR, while PNF elicited lower HR responses than SR. These increases in hemodynamic responses (HR and BP) were not of a magnitude to be clinically significant, provide an aerobic exercise stimulus or warrant concerns for most senior athletes.		[Feland, Brent] Brigham Univ, Coll Life Sci, Fac Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT USA; [Hopkins, Andy C.] Brigham Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Provo, UT USA; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300011	57	Article; Article		
J	Mornieux, Guillaume; Gehring, Dominic; Gollhofer, Albert								Is There a Sex Difference in Trunk Neuromuscular Control among Recreational Athletes during Cutting Maneuvers?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			743	750		10.52082/jssm.2021.743			DEC 2021	2021	Trunk motion is most likely to influence knee joint injury risk, but little is known about sex-related differences in trunk neuromuscular control during changes of direction. The purpose of the present study was to test whether differences in trunk control between males and females during changes of direction exist. Twelve female and 12 male recreational athletes (with at least 10 years of experience in team sport) performed unanticipated changes of direction with 30 degrees and 60 degrees cut angles, while 3D trunk and leg kinematics, ground reaction forces and trunk muscles electromyography were recorded. Trunk kinematics at the time of peak knee abduction moment and directed co-contraction ratios for trunk muscles during the pre-activation and weight acceptance phases were determined. None of the trunk kinematics and co contraction ratio variables, nor peak knee abduction moment differed between sexes. Compared to the 30 degrees cut, trunk lateral flexion remained unchanged and trunk external rotation was reduced (p 0.001; eta(2)(p) (partial eta squared for effect size) = 0.78), while peak knee abduction moment was increased (p < 0.001; eta(2)(p) = 0.84) at 60 degrees. The sharper cutting angle induced muscle co -contraction during the pre-activation directed less towards trunk flexors (p < 0.01; eta(2)(p) = 0.27) but more towards trunk medial flexors and rotators opposite to the movement direction (p < 0.001; eta(2)(p) 0.46). However, muscle co-contraction during the weight acceptance phase remained comparable between 30 degrees and 60 degrees. The lack of sex-related differences in trunk control does not explain knee joint injury risk discrepancies between sexes during changes of direction. Trunk neuromuscular strategies during sharper cutting angles revealed the importance of external oblique muscles to maintain trunk lateral flexion at the expense of trunk rotation. This provides new information for trunk strength training purposes for athletes performing changes of direction.		[Mornieux, Guillaume; Gehring, Dominic; Gollhofer, Albert] Univ Freiburg, Inst Sport & Sport Sci, Freiburg, Germany; [Mornieux, Guillaume] Univ Lorraine, Fac Sport Sci, EA3450 DevAH,30 Rue Du Jardin Botan, F-54600 Villers Les Nancy, France								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300017	41	Article; Article		
J	McBride, Jeffrey M.								Muscle Actuators, Not Springs, Drive Maximal Effort Human Locomotor Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			766	777		10.52082/jssm.2021.766			DEC 2021	2021	The current investigation examined muscle-tendon unit kinematics and kinetics in human participants asked to perform a hopping task for maximal performance with variational preceding milieu. Twenty-four participants were allocated post-data collection into those participants with an average hop height of higher (HH) or lower (LH) than 0.1 m. Participants were placed on a customized sled at a 20 angle while standing on a force plate. Participants used their dominant ankle for all testing and their knee was immobilized and thus all movement involved only the ankle joint and corresponding propulsive unit (triceps surae muscle complex). Participants were asked to perform a maximal effort during a single dynamic countermovement hop (CMH) and drop hops from 10 cm (DH10) and 50 cm (DH50). Three-dimensional motion analysis was performed by utilizing an infrared camera VICON motion analysis system and a corresponding force plate. An ultrasound probe was placed on the triceps surae muscle complex for muscle fascicle imaging. HH hopped significantly higher in all hopping tasks in comparison to LH. In addition, the HH group concentric ankle work was significantly higher in comparison to LH during all of the hopping tasks. Active muscle work was significantly higher in HH in comparison to LH as well. Tendon work was not significantly different between HH and LH. Active muscle work was significantly correlated with hopping height (r = 0.97) across both groups and hopping tasks and contributed more than 50% of the total work. The data indicates that humans primarily use a motor-driven system and thus it is concluded that muscle actuators and not springs maximize performance in hopping locomotor tasks in humans.		[McBride, Jeffrey M.] Appalachian State Univ, Neuromuscular & Biomech Lab, Beaver Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Levine Hall 412A, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [McBride, Jeffrey M.] Appalachian State Univ, Neuromuscular & Biomech Lab, Beaver Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Levine Hall 412A, Boone, NC 28608 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300020	71	Article; Article		
J	Senisik, Seher Cagdas; Akova, Bedrettin; Sekir, Ufuk; Gur, Hakan								Effects of Muscle Architecture on Eccentric Exercise Induced Muscle Damage Responses								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			655	664		10.52082/jssm.2021.655			DEC 2021	2021	There is a need to investigate the role of muscle architecture on muscle damage responses induced by exercise. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of muscle architecture and muscle length on eccentric exercise-induced muscle damage responses. Eccentric exercise-induced muscle damage was performed randomly to the elbow flexor (EF), knee extensor (KE), and knee flexor (KF) muscle groups with two week intervals in 12 sedentary male subjects. Before and after each eccentric exercise (immediately after, on the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 7th days) range of motion, delayed onset muscle soreness, creatine kinase activity, myoglobin concentration and isometric peak torque in short and long muscle positions were evaluated. Furthermore, muscle volume and pennation angle of each muscle group was evaluated before initiating the eccentric exercise protocol. Pennation angle and muscle volume was significantly higher and the workload per unit muscle volume was significantly lower in the KE muscles compared with the KF and EF muscles (p < 0.01). EF muscles showed significantly higher pain levels at post-exercise days 1 and 3 compared with the KE (p < 0.01 -0.001) and KF (p < 0.01) muscles. The deficits in range of motion were higher in the EF muscles compared to the KE and KF muscles immediately after (day 0, p < 0.01), day 1 (p < 0.05 -0.01), and day 3 (p < 0.05) evaluations. The EF muscles represented significantly greater increases in CK and Mb levels at day 1, 3, and 7 than the KE muscles (p < 0.05 -0.01). The CK and Mb levels were also significantly higher in the KF muscles compared with the KE muscles (p < 0.05, p < 0.01 respectively). The KF and EF muscles represented higher isometric peak torque deficits in all the post -exercise evaluations at muscle short position (p < 0.05 -0.001) compared with the KE muscle after eccentric exercise. Isometric peak torque deficits in muscle lengthened position was significantly higher in EF in all the post-exercise evaluations compared with the KE muscle (p < 0.05 -0.01). According to the results of this study it can be concluded that muscle structural differences may be one of the responsible factors for the different muscle damage responses following eccentric exercise in various muscle groups.		[Senisik, Seher Cagdas] Katip Celebi Univ, Ataturk Training & Res Hosp, Izmir, Turkey; [Akova, Bedrettin; Sekir, Ufuk; Gur, Hakan] Bursa Uludag Univ, Dept Sports Med, Sch Med, Bursa, Turkey; [Akova, Bedrettin] Bursa Uludag Univ, Dept Sports Med, Sch Med, Bursa, Turkey								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300008	30	Article; Article		
J	Helbach, Jasmin; Stahlmann, Katharina								Changes in Digital Media Use and Physical Activity in German Young Adults under the Covid-19 Pandemic-A Cross-Sectional Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			642	654		10.52082/jssm.2021.642			DEC 2021	2021	Many studies observed a reduction of physical activity (PA) and an increase in digital media use in young adults during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, few studies have been conducted in Europe or looked at changes in the association between both behaviors. Hence, this study aims at investigating the changes in digital media use/social media use and PA as well as in its association among young adults in Germany. Cross-sectional data of 884 German young adults (mean age 22.36 (+/- 1.99), 76% female) collected via an online questionnaire between August 1 and September 30, 2020 were analyzed. Participants reported on digital media use (smartphone, television, computer, gaming console), social media use (Facebook, Instagram, Snap chat, Twitter, YouTube, TikTok) and PA (days/week of >= 30 min. PA) separately for the period of strict infection control measures in Germany (March end of May 2020) and for normal times (before March 2020). Descriptive statistics of digital media use, social media use and PA were compared between both periods. Linear regression adjusted for sociodemographic and work-related characteristics were conducted for both periods with total media use, the various media devices and social media use, respectively, as independent and PA as dependent variables. Whereas PA did not differ between both periods, mean total digital media use increased by 1 hour during the period of strict infection control measures. Digital media use and social media use were negatively associated with PA in both time periods. Differences in these associations by sex could be found for some digital media devices. However, 60% of respondents did not comply with the WHO recommendations for PA. Under consideration of possible recall bias, young adults' digital media use, but not PA, seemed to have changed under the strict infection control measures. However, interventions are needed to increase PA and to prevent its reduction in the course of the pandemic.		[Helbach, Jasmin; Stahlmann, Katharina] Univ Bremen, Hlth Sci Bremen, Bremen, Germany; [Stahlmann, Katharina] Friedrich Ebert Str 195, D-28199 Bremen, Germany; [Stahlmann, Katharina] Univ Bremen, Hlth Sci Bremen, Bremen, Germany; [Stahlmann, Katharina] Friedrich Ebert Str 195, D-28199 Bremen, Germany								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300007	65	Article; Article		
J	Mishica, Christina; Kyrolainen, Heikki; Hynynen, Esa; Nummela, Ari; Holmberg, Hans-Christer; Linnamo, Vesa								Relationships between Heart Rate Variability, Sleep Duration, Cortisol and Physical Training in Young Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			778	788		10.52082/jssm.2021.778			DEC 2021	2021	The aims of the current study were to examine the relationships between heart rate variability (HRV), salivary cortisol, sleep duration and training in young athletes. Eight athletes (16 +/- 1 years) were monitored for 7 weeks during training and competition seasons. Subjects were training for endurance-based winter sports (cross-country skiing and biathlon). Training was divided into two zones (K1, easy training and K2, hard training). Heart rate and blood lactate during submaximal running tests (SRT), as well as cortisol, sleep duration and nocturnal HRV (RMSSD), were determined every other week. HRV and cortisol levels were correlated throughout the 7-week period (r =-0.552, P = 0.01), with the strongest correlation during week 7 (r =-0.879, P = 0.01). The relative changes in K1 and HRV showed a positive correlation from weeks 1-3 (r = 0.863, P = 0.006) and a negative correlation during weeks 3-5 (r =-0.760, P = 0.029). The relative change in sleep during weeks 1-3 were negatively correlated with cortisol (r =-0.762, P = 0.028) and K2 (r =-0.762, P = 0.028). In conclusion, HRV appears to reflect the recovery of young athletes during high loads of physical and/or physiological stress. Cortisol levels also reflected this recovery, but significant change required a longer period than HRV, suggesting that cortisol may be less sensitive to stress than HRV. Moreover, our results indicated that during the competition season, recovery for young endurance athletes increased in duration and additional sleep may be beneficial.		[Mishica, Christina; Kyrolainen, Heikki; Linnamo, Vesa] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Hynynen, Esa; Nummela, Ari] KIHU Res Inst Olymp Sports, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Holmberg, Hans-Christer] Lulea Univ Technol, Dept Hlth Educ & Technol, Lulea, Sweden; [Mishica, Christina] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704890300021	57	Article; Article		
J	Brill, Stephan; Schwellnus, Martin; Sewry, Nicola; Van Rensburg, Dina Christa Janse; Van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Jooste, Marcel; Leppan, Jordan; Boulter, Jeremy; Seocharan, Ishen; Jordaan, Esme								Pre-race self-reported medical conditions and allergies in 133 641 Comrades ultramarathon (90km) runners-SAFER XXIII								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	1			88	95		10.1080/00913847.2021.2004080			JAN 2 2023	2023	Objectives To determine the prevalence of self-reported pre-race chronic medical conditions and allergies in ultramarathon race entrants and to explore if these are associated with an increased risk of race-day medical encounters (MEs). Methods Data from two voluntary open-ended pre-race medical screening questions (Q1 - history of allergies; Q2 - history of chronic medical conditions/prescription medication use) were collected in 133641 Comrades Marathon race entrants (2014-2019). Race-day ME data collected prospectively over 6 years are reported as incidence (per 1000 starters) and incidence ratios (IR: 95%CI's). Results Pre-race medical screening questions identified race entrants with a history of chronic medical conditions and/or prescription medication use (6.9%) and allergies (7.4%). The % entrants with risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD) was 30% and being older (>45 years) or male (27.5%) were the most frequent CVD risk factors. 0.3% of entrants reported existing CVD. The overall incidence of MEs was 20/1000 race starters. MEs were significantly higher in race entrants reporting a 'yes' to Q1 (allergies) (IR = 1.3; 1.1-1.5) (p = 0.014) or Q2 (chronic medical conditions and/or prescription medication use) (IR = 1.3; 1.1-1.5) (p = 0.0006). Conclusions Voluntary completion of two open-ended questions identified chronic medical conditions and/or prescription medication use in 6.9% and allergies in 7.4% of ultramarathon race entrants. This is lower than that reported for other races that implemented compulsory completion of a more comprehensive pre-screening questionnaire. Despite potential under-reporting, a pre-race self-reported history of chronic medical conditions and allergies was associated with a higher risk of race-day MEs.		[Brill, Stephan; Schwellnus, Martin; Sewry, Nicola; Van Rensburg, Dina Christa Janse; Van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Jooste, Marcel; Leppan, Jordan] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa; [Brill, Stephan; Van Rensburg, Dina Christa Janse; Van Rensburg, Audrey Jansen; Jooste, Marcel; Leppan, Jordan] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin; Sewry, Nicola] Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [Boulter, Jeremy] Comrades Marathon Pietermaritzburg, Pietermaritzburg, South Africa; [Seocharan, Ishen; Jordaan, Esme] South African Med Res Council, Biostat Unit, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] Univ Western Cape, Stat & Populat Studies Dept, Cape Town, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000724007900001	36	Article; Article		
J	Monahan, Cory J.; Hurley, Wendy L.								Does instructing attentional focus direction affect static single leg balance performance?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1040	1048	17479541211058581	10.1177/17479541211058581			OCT 2022	2022	Balance and postural control exercises are generally included as a part of exercise programs, during which movement practitioners can provide instructions to facilitate the performance of motor skills. Instructions can be used as cues to direct attentional focus, which has been found to affect the performance of motor skills, including balance and postural control tasks. However, no known studies to date have investigated the effect of both internal and external attentional focus instructions on static single leg balance performance, and it seems unclear whether effects of such instructions are related specifically to the direction of attention. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of instructing the direction of attentional focus on single leg static balance performance as reflected by the complexity of the center of pressure (COP) profile. Participants (N = 46) between the ages of 19-28 years old were randomly assigned to one of three group conditions: internal focus (INTn=15), external focus (EXTn=16) and control (CONn=15). Participants performed a thirty-five second static single leg balance task. Outcome measures were the scaling exponent determined from a detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA) to infer complexity of the COP profile in the anterior-posterior (AP) and medial-lateral (ML) directions, and root mean square error (RMSE) of the COP profile in AP and ML directions. A one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) determined there were no statistically significant differences in the measured variables among groups. The results do not support the claim that manipulating the direction of attentional focus affects static single leg balance performance.		[Monahan, Cory J.; Hurley, Wendy L.] State Univ New York Coll Cortland, Kinesiol, Cortland, NY 13045 USA; [Monahan, Cory J.] 32 Graham Ave, Cortland, NY 13045 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000726512800001	47	Article; Article		
J	Grijalbo, Carles; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Guzman, Jose F.								Verbal coping of coaches in competition: Differences depending on emotional intelligence and self-determined motivation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			264	273	17479541211061331	10.1177/17479541211061331			APR 2022	2022	In this study we analysed the differences in verbal behaviour of coaches during matches. A total of 9739 verbal behaviours issued by 26 male handball coaches in 26 matches, 1 for each coach, were classified into the categories established by the Coach Analysis and Intervention System (CAIS). These behaviours in turn were grouped according to the type of coping expressed by the coach (task-oriented, emotional positive and emotional negative). Coaches were then classified into high or low emotional intelligence, and high or low self-determined motivation, using the mean of these scores. Differences in verbal behaviour percentages were analysed by Chi-square based on coach membership in groups of emotional intelligence and self-determined motivation. Coaches with greater self-determined motivation and emotional intelligence used more verbal behaviours showing positive emotional coping. Results are discussed based on the impact on the health and performance of athletes, as well as possible interventions to improve the leadership of the coach in a match situation.		[Grijalbo, Carles] Generalitat Catalunya, Conselleria Educ, Barcelona, Spain; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Guzman, Jose F.] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Valencia, Spain; [Guzman, Jose F.] Univ Valencia, Fac Ciencies Activitat Fis & Esport, C Gasco Oliag 3, Valencia 46010, Spain								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000725595300001	48	Article; Article		
J	Yamamoto, Dai; Takafuji, Jun; Kato, Tomoyuki; Kawai, Kazutake; Shimizu, Chihiro								The relative age and birth order effect in Japanese professional football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1059	1070	17479541211054239	10.1177/17479541211054239			OCT 2022	2022	This study examines how the probability of becoming a professional football player depends on the birth month (relative age effect) and birth order. These two factors are random and cannot be controlled by the athlete. If these factors influence the probability of the occurrence of top athletes, they not only create inequality but also close the disciplines to potentially talented athletes, lowering the level of competition. Therefore, in this study, we statistically clarified the presence or absence of "giftedness of life" by focusing on the birth month and birth order of professional football league players in the Japan Professional Football League (J-League). Our results indicate that the probability of the occurrence of J-League players decreases significantly with increasing birth order and birth month (180 days, from April onward). Moreover, we found that second-born players with an older brother had higher estimated salaries than players without siblings. These results reveal the characteristics of excellent football players and suggest the importance and direction of improvement in talent discovery and development in sports. Based on our results, we recommend improvements in the player training system to buffer the effects of relative age effect and birth order.		[Yamamoto, Dai; Kawai, Kazutake; Shimizu, Chihiro] Nihon Univ, Coll Sports Sci, Setagaya Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Takafuji, Jun] Kibi Int Univ, Dept Sport Social Management, Takahashi, Okayama, Japan; [Kato, Tomoyuki] Univ Yamanashi, Grad Fac, Interdisciplinary Res Fac Educ Human Sci Art Phys, Kofu, Yamanashi, Japan; [Yamamoto, Dai] Nihon Univ, Coll Sports Sci, Setagaya Ku, Tokyo, Japan								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000725594700001	58	Article; Article		
J	Arede, Jorge; Esteves, Pedro; Blanco, David; Romero-Rodriguez, Dani; Leite, Nuno; Madruga-Parera, Marc								Post-activation performance enhancement after inclusion of opponent versus no opponent during isoinertial crossover step exercise: A randomized crossover trial								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1158	1166	17479541211051040	10.1177/17479541211051040			OCT 2022	2022	This study sought to determine whether the inclusion of an opponent on an isoinertial crossover step task influenced the post-activation response and power production. Twenty adult male team-sports athletes participated in a randomized crossover trial. We used a novel design in which the performance of an isoinertial flywheel exercise was tested with or without the inclusion of sport-specific constraints (inclusion of an opponent vs. no opponent) in one of the two sequences (sequence one: constraint manipulation followed by no constraint manipulation; and sequence two: no constraint manipulation followed by constraint manipulation). Maximal power was recorded during exercise; then the coefficient of variation of maximal power was estimated. Post-activation responses were measured using unilateral jump height and change-of-direction time. Also, ankle dorsiflexion range of motion was measured. The use of an isoinertial flywheel resulted in improved ankle dorsiflexion and the capacity to repeat change-of-direction. Furthermore, the inclusion of an opponent was associated with a higher variability of the power output in the concentric phase of the movement. Importantly, performing the crossover step task in front of an opponent was also linked to a positive correlation between unilateral countermovement jump and power output. We conclude that the inclusion of typical constraints of the performance environment may have induced movement adaptations to accommodate the unpredictability associated with the actions of the opponent.		[Arede, Jorge; Esteves, Pedro; Leite, Nuno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Apartado 202, P-5001911 Vila Real, Portugal; [Esteves, Pedro] Polytech Inst Guarda, Sch Educ Commun & Sport, Guarda, Portugal; [Blanco, David; Romero-Rodriguez, Dani] Univ Int Catalunya, Phys Therapy Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Romero-Rodriguez, Dani] FC Barcelona First Team Sport Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] Univ Int Catalunya, Phys Therapy Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] FC Barcelona Second Team Sport Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] Return Play & Sports Training Ctr, reQ, Barcelona, Spain; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Apartado 202, P-5001911 Vila Real, Portugal								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000725593900001	31	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio; Martinent, Guillaume; Nicolas, Michel								Relationships between coach's leadership, group cohesion, affective states, sport satisfaction and goal attainment in competitive settings								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			244	253	17479541211053229	10.1177/17479541211053229			APR 2022	2022	We examined whether a perceived coach's leadership predicted group cohesion and whether group cohesion predicted intensity and direction of positive affect and negative affect experienced during competition, sport satisfaction and goal attainment following the completion of a sports competition. A sample of 296 competitive athletes (Mage = 21.61; standard deviation = 6.32) participated in the study and completed a series of self-report questionnaires assessing the aforementioned constructs. A partial least square path modelling approach was used to examine the relationships between the study variables. Results of the structural partial least square path modelling model revealed that: (a) democratic coach behaviour negatively predicted Group Integration Task, (b) authoritarian coach positively predicted Individual Attractions to the Group-Social, and (c) reward positively predicted Group Integration Task. Moreover, partial least square path modelling results also revealed that (a) Individual Attraction to the Group-Task positively predicted the direction of negative affect during competition, (b) authoritarian coach marginally positively predicted Group Social Integration during competition, and (c) Group Social Integration marginally negatively predicted the direction of Negative Affects during competition. Thus, contradicting previous studies, results did not provide evidence of the empowering effect of democratic coach leadership on Group Integration Task. Finally, results provided evidence for the significant relationships between group cohesion and athletes' competitive outcomes such as affective states experienced during competition.		[Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Univ Int La Rioja UNIR, TECNODEF Res Grp, Fac Educ, Logrono, La Rioja, Spain; [Martinent, Guillaume] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lab Vulnerabil & Innovat Sport EA 7428, Interdisciplinary Res Confederat Sport FED 4272, Lyon, France; [Nicolas, Michel] Univ Bourgogne Franche Comte, Sport Sci Dept, Lab Psy DREPI EA 7458, Dijon, France; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Calle Almansa 101, Madrid 28040, Madrid, Spain								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000725597100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Campa, Domenico								Exploring the Market of Soccer Player Registrations: An Empirical Analysis of the Difference Between Transfer Fees and Estimated Players' Inherent Value								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	4			379	406	15270025211059527	10.1177/15270025211059527			MAY 2022	2022	This paper examines the determinants of the difference between soccer player registration transfer fees and the estimated inherent value of transferred players. The results show that this difference increases for players competing in the same league as that of the acquiring team, players acquired during winter transfer windows, defender registrations, and in the presence of player registration swaps. It decreases for midfielder registrations and for registrations purchased the year immediately before the expiration of players' contracts. Finally, the difference between registration transfer fees and estimated players' inherent value increases up to when players are 28 years old and decreases afterwards.		[Campa, Domenico] Int Univ Monaco, OMNES Educ, 14 Rue Hubert Clerissi, MC-98000 Principality Of Monaco, Monaco; [Campa, Domenico] Int Univ Monaco, OMNES Educ, 14 Rue Hubert Clerissi, MC-98000 Principality Of Monaco, Monaco								15							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000726105100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Nessel, Karolina								Career patterns of marketing managers in top European football clubs								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	3			628	644		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2021-0104			JUN 28 2022	2022	Purpose The goal of this research was to explore career patterns of senior marketing managers in the best European football clubs (SMMEFCs). Design/methodology/approach The data came from the LinkedIn profiles of current and past SMMEFCs. Firstly, the optimal matching algorithm was used to determine clusters of pathways leading to a first SMMEFC position based on the main activity of the employing organisation. Secondly, these patterns were compared in terms of variables depicting the career paths, clubs and managers. Finally, the evolution of the post-SMMEFC careers was analysed. Findings People in their first SMMEFC positions are mainly male with a university degree in business and marketing, and with a predominantly functional experience in marketing. There are five ways to become an SMMEFC: through business (40% of the sample), football (32%), other sports (11%), marketing and communication (11%), and media (6%). As the majority of SMMEFCs come to their positions from outside the sporting world, the specificity of the football industry is not a serious obstacle. Instead, the careers are bounded by functional marketing experience. Among the individual sequences leading to a first SMMEFC position, only around half of the football cluster may be considered traditional careers. Football, and sports in general, seem attractive for post-SMMEFC career development for the majority of managers coming from all pathways. Originality/value The study is the first one to quantify career patterns in professional sports management. It provides new insights about marketing careers and practice in European club football.		[Nessel, Karolina] Jagiellonian Univ Krakow, Inst Entrepreneurship, Krakow, Poland; [Nessel, Karolina] Jagiellonian Univ Krakow, Inst Entrepreneurship, Krakow, Poland								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000722752800001	69	Article; Article		
J	Rossiter, Antonia; Comyns, Thomas M.; Powell, Cormac; Nevill, Alan M.; Warrington, Giles D.								Effect of long-haul transmeridian travel on recovery and performance in international level swimmers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			817	828	17479541211049641	10.1177/17479541211049641			AUG 2022	2022	This study holistically examined the effects of long-haul transmeridian travel (LHTT) on physiological, perceptual, sleep and performance markers in nine international level swimmers preparing for the 2019 FINA World Long Course Championships in Gwangju, South Korea. Baseline (BL) measurements were taken over two days during the week before a long-haul eastward flight across eight time-zones. Following the flight, measurements were taken over a six-day holding camp in Japan (C1-C6), and over four days at the competition venue in Gwangju before the Championships commenced (PR1-PR4). Salivary cortisol (sCort), immunoglobulin A (sIgA), alpha-amylase (sAA) concentrations and perceptual measures via the Liverpool John Moore's University Jetlag Questionnaire were assessed. Sleep was monitored using wrist activity monitors and self-report sleep diaries. Performance was assessed via squat jump (SJ), countermovement jump (CMJ) and a 4 x 100 m swim test. Participants perceived themselves to be significantly more fatigued and jet lagged than BL for five- and nine-days post-travel, respectively. Morning sCort decreased by 70% on C1 and remained significantly lower than BL until C6 (p < 0.05). Sleep ratings improved significantly in comparison to BL from C5 onwards (p < 0.05). Compared with BL, there was no significant change in swim performance or SJ height following travel; however, there was a 3.8 cm improvement (p < 0.001) in CMJ height on C5. It took ten days for elite swimmers to perceive themselves recovered from jet lag following LHTT in an eastward direction across eight time-zones. LHTT did not negatively affect sleep or physical performance in the swimmers in comparison to BL.		[Rossiter, Antonia] Sport Ireland Campus, Sport Ireland Inst, Dublin 15, Ireland; [Rossiter, Antonia; Comyns, Thomas M.; Nevill, Alan M.; Warrington, Giles D.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Comyns, Thomas M.; Warrington, Giles D.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Sport & Human Performance Res Grp, Limerick, Ireland; [Powell, Cormac] Sport Ireland, High Performance Unit, Sport Ireland Campus, Dublin 15, Ireland; [Powell, Cormac] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Phys Act Hlth Cluster, Limerick, Ireland; [Nevill, Alan M.] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Wolverhampton, England; [Rossiter, Antonia] Sport Ireland Campus, Sport Ireland Inst, Dublin 15, Ireland								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000726503300001	50	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Seungmo; Liu, Jingdong; Love, Adam; Park, Sanghyun								Organizational citizenship behavior in sport: Scale development and validation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1018	1032	17479541211054246	10.1177/17479541211054246			OCT 2022	2022	The purpose of the current study was to develop a valid and reliable scale to measure organizational citizenship behavior in sport. The current research consisted of a three-stage scale development and validation process: (a) item generation and content validity, (b) construct validity and reliability, and (c) criterion validity. Qualitative and quantitative methods were used to generate and analyze scale items. The results of Exploratory Structural Equation Modeling revealed appropriate goodness-of-fit indexes for the finalized 22-item scale including five dimensions: bonding, encouraging, helping, community service, and extra work. Finally, correlations between each dimension of organizational citizenship behavior and athlete satisfaction and team commitment confirmed the criterion validity. The newly developed organizational citizenship behavior in Sport Scale is expected to help researchers empirically examine the potential relationships between psychological antecedents and identified dimensions of organizational citizenship behavior in sport as well as provide practical guidance to professionals working with athletes.		[Kim, Seungmo] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport Phys Educ & Hlth, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Liu, Jingdong] Sun Yat Sen Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Love, Adam] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Park, Sanghyun] Korea Natl Open Univ, Dept Sport All, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Seungmo] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport Phys Educ & Hlth, HKBU, Kowloon Tong, AAB 932,Acad & Adm Bldg, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000721950600001	53	Article; Article		
J	Matsuda, Yuji; Kaneko, Masaki; Sakurai, Yoshihisa; Akashi, Keita; Yasuo, Sengoku								Three-dimensional lower-limb kinematics during undulatory underwater swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2093	2107		10.1080/14763141.2021.1995475			NOV 1 2024	2024	The three-dimensional (3D) motion of lower-limb joints is evaluated during various sports. However, few studies have reported the 3D lower-limb joint movement during undulatory underwater swimming (UUS). This study aimed to investigate the relationship between 3D lower-limb kinematics and forward-swimming velocity during UUS at maximal velocity. A total of 26 male international- and national-level swimmers were assessed during UUS using a motion-capture system. The 3D angle and angular velocity of the lower-limb joints were calculated and relationships between forward-swimming velocity, angle, and angular velocity were investigated using correlation analysis. The peak angular velocities of hip internal and external rotation were significantly correlated with forward-swimming velocity (r = .48, p = .01 and r =-.74, p < .01, respectively). Peak hip internal rotation was observed at the middle of down-kicking (25% kick cycle, 243 degrees/s), whereas peak external rotation was observed at the terminal of down-kicking (50% kick cycle, -351 degrees/s). The swimmers showed a higher peak angular velocity of hip internal/external rotation with a large active range of motion for hip rotation. The swimmers moved their lower-limb joints three-dimensionally, and aside from flexion/extension movements, and hip rotation may increase UUS proficiency.		[Matsuda, Yuji] Nihon Fukushi Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Mihama, Aichi, Japan; [Matsuda, Yuji; Akashi, Keita] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Kaneko, Masaki; Yasuo, Sengoku] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Sakurai, Yoshihisa] DESCENTE JAPAN LTD, R&D Ctr, Osaka, Japan; [Akashi, Keita] Int Pacif Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Okayama, Japan; [Matsuda, Yuji] Nihon Fukushi Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Mihama, Aichi, Japan; [Matsuda, Yuji] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Res, Tokyo, Japan								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000719796900001	29	Article; Article		
J	Moreno-Perez, Victor; Ruiz, Javier; Vazquez-Guerrero, Jairo; Rodas, Gil; Del Coso, Juan								Training and competition injury epidemiology in professional basketball players: a prospective observational study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	2			121	128		10.1080/00913847.2021.2000325			MAR 4 2023	2023	Background: There is a lack of epidemiological data comparing the characteristics of injuries sustained during basketball matches vs. training taking into account incidence, type of injury, body location and risk factors associated with the development of the injury. Purpose: The main aim of the present study was to analyze the incidence and characteristics of training vs. competition injuries sustained by professional basketball players. Methods: The injuries incurred by 61 professional basketball players (mean +/- SD, age: 25.7 +/- 5.1 years; height: 200.2 +/- 9.2 cm; body mass: 98.2 +/- 13.8 kg) from the same team were prospectively recorded by the team's medical staff for 6 consecutive seasons (2014/15 to 2019/20). The team competed in a top national basketball division and in the EuroLeague among other national-level competitions. The injuries were recorded using a validated medical questionnaire that included information according to type, severity, location, and injury mechanism. Training and match times were also recorded for each player in order to calculate injury incidence. Results: A total of 306 injuries were reported, representing 12.59 injuries per 1000 h of basketball play. Most injuries occurred without direct contact with another player/object (70.9%) and were located in the lower limbs (74.8%), particularly in the knee (22.9%). The incidence of injuries was higher during competition than during training: 77.83 vs. 8.29 injuries per 1000 h of basketball play. However, there were no differences in the mechanism and mode of onset between training and competition injuries while the proportion of time-loss injuries was also similar in training and competition. Conclusions: In summary, injury incidence in professional basketball was similar to 10-times higher during competition than during training. Beyond differences in incidence, injury characteristics were similar for basketball training and competition.		[Moreno-Perez, Victor] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Avda Univ S-N, Alicante 03202, Spain; [Moreno-Perez, Victor] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Ctr Translat Res Physiotherapy, Dept Pathol & Surg, San Joan, Spain; [Ruiz, Javier; Rodas, Gil] Football Club Barcelona, Med Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Vazquez-Guerrero, Jairo] FC Barcelona Sports, Sport Performance Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Del Coso, Juan] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Fuenlabrada, Spain; [Moreno-Perez, Victor] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Avda Univ S-N, Alicante 03202, Spain								19							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000719788100001	23	Article; Article		
J	Robertson, Kamasha; De Waelle, Silke; Deconinck, Frederik J. A.; Lenoir, Matthieu								Differences in expertise level for anticipatory skill between badminton 'in game' strokes and serves								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			782	791	17479541211046910	10.1177/17479541211046910			AUG 2022	2022	Over the past decades, researchers in racquet sports have been testing the role of visual anticipation and expert attunement to essential kinematic information for responding to 'in game' strokes as well as serves. However, anticipatory behaviour to both strokes has not been compared directly, in spite of the different characteristics of these strokes in the context of badminton. Therefore, this study explored the differences in anticipatory behaviour among elite (n = 26), competitive (n = 15) and novices (n = 17) between in game strokes and serves in badminton by use of lab based video temporal occlusion tests. In two separate blocks, last strokes (LS) and serves (S) were presented with different occlusion points (- 200 and - 100 ms before shuttle-racquet contact, at shuttle-racquet contact, and + 100 after shuttle-racquet contact) in a randomised order. The main results from the analysis of variance were that (a) elites generally showed faster and more accurate responses, and (b) responses were generally faster in LS conditions than in serves. These results add to the current body of knowledge on anticipatory behaviour in racquet sports, and the practical implications for coaching and training are discussed.		[Robertson, Kamasha; De Waelle, Silke; Deconinck, Frederik J. A.; Lenoir, Matthieu] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Watersportlaan 2, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium; [Robertson, Kamasha] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Watersportlaan 2, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000720387400001	36	Article; Article		
J	Antonio Moreno-Murcia, Juan; Ramis-Claver, Jaime; Ruiz-Gonzalez, Lorena; Rodrigues, Filipe; Huescar Hernandez, Elisa								Longitudinal perspective of autonomy support on habitual physical activity of adolescents								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			829	837	17479541211050146	10.1177/17479541211050146			AUG 2022	2022	The evidence collected in the area of physical education indicates the need to continue to delve into the relationships and models that satisfy the basic psychological needs of the students and their consequences, in order to promote a high rate of physical activity. The aim of this study was to test the relationship between autonomy support, basic psychological needs and self-determined motivation with respect to enjoyment, intention towards practice and habitual physical activity. A sample of 717 students, aged between 13 and 19 years old was used. A longitudinal design was carried out with two measurement time points. The results indicated positive relationships for all model variables between the two measurement times. The results obtained are discussed with respect to the use of an interpersonal style to support autonomy in the academic context of physical education classes for the promotion of greater commitment and adherence to physical activity.		[Antonio Moreno-Murcia, Juan; Ramis-Claver, Jaime; Huescar Hernandez, Elisa] Univ Miguel Hernandez Elche, Alicante, Spain; [Ruiz-Gonzalez, Lorena] Univ Malaga, Malaga, Spain; [Rodrigues, Filipe] ESECS Polytech Leiria, Leiria, Portugal; [Rodrigues, Filipe] CIEQV, Rio Major, Portugal; [Antonio Moreno-Murcia, Juan] Univ Miguel Hernandez Elche, Ctr Invest Deporte, Dept Ciencias Deporte, Ave Univ S-N, Elche 03202, Alicante, Spain								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000718359000001	62	Article; Article		
J	Koo, Jakeun								Antecedents of the attitude toward the athlete celebrities' human brand extensions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	2			241	258		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2020-0241			APR 5 2022	2022	Purpose The present study aims to examine how consumers evaluate the extended human brands of athlete celebrities beyond their unique brand personality associated with sports. Athlete celebrities' unique image in sports is used as a human brand, and attitude toward the athlete brand extensions is investigated when the athlete's name is included in a new non-sport brand. The concepts of brand extensions were employed to develop the ideas of human brand extensions. Design/methodology/approach In total, 198 participants answered online survey questions before and after being informed of athlete brand extensions. Partial least squares structural equation modeling is utilized to test the hypotheses. Findings The survey results indicated that athlete-product fit and image transfer positively influenced attitude toward the extension. In addition, attitude toward the athlete brand extensions was significantly influenced by consumers' pre-existing attitude toward the celebrity; however, not by celebrity's expertise. Originality/value The research findings imply that some brand extension concepts are applicable to human brands to understand the effectiveness of athlete brand extensions for non-sport products.		[Koo, Jakeun] Texas Southern Univ, Dept Business Adm, Jesse H Jones Sch Business, Houston, TX 77004 USA; [Koo, Jakeun] Texas Southern Univ, Dept Business Adm, Jesse H Jones Sch Business, Houston, TX 77004 USA								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000716517200001	66	Article; Article		
J	Alonso-Fernandez, D.; Lopez-Barreiro, J.; Garganta, R.; Taboada-Iglesias, Y.								Acute impact of Nordic hamstring exercise on sprint performance after 24, 48 and 72 hours								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2065	2079		10.1080/14763141.2021.1992493			NOV 1 2024	2024	The Nordic Hamstring Exercise (NHE) improves the strength of the hamstring muscles, as well as prevents and rehabilitates the injuries of said muscles. However, the eccentric demand of NHE may influence the athlete's performance, making compliance with these programmes difficult. The aim is to analyse the acute impact on sprint performance after the passing of 24, 48, and 72 hours respectively since an NHE-based session (4 sets of 10 repetitions) had taken place. Participants were randomly divided into an experimental group (EG) (n = 12 male participants) who carried out an NHE session and a measurement of their 30 m sprint performance in each of the three subsequent days, and a control group (CG) (n = 12 male participants) who did not take part in the NHE session. The results show a significant reduction of maximum power within 24 hours (t = 3.57, d = 0.22, P < .0273) as well of the production of high speed horizontal force up to after 48 hours (t = 4.82, d = 0.22, P < .0001) in the EG. These results may suggest separating weekly NHE sessions from competition or demanding training in which sprint performance should not be affected by at least 72 hours.		[Alonso-Fernandez, D.; Taboada-Iglesias, Y.] Univ Vigo, Fac Sci Educ & Sport, Dept Special Didact, Pontevedra, Spain; [Alonso-Fernandez, D.] SERGAS UVIGO Spain, Educ Phys Activ & Hlth Res Grp Gies10, Pontevedra, Spain; [Lopez-Barreiro, J.] Univ Vigo, Fac Sci Educ & Sport, Pontevedra, Spain; [Garganta, R.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Dept Kinanthropometry, Porto, Portugal; [Taboada-Iglesias, Y.] Univ Vigo, Fac Physiotherapy, Dept Funct Biol & Hlth Sci, Pontevedra, Spain; [Alonso-Fernandez, D.] Univ Vigo, Fac Sci Educ & Sport, Dept Special Didact, Pontevedra, Spain								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000715684300001	42	Article; Article		
J	McLellan, Gillian; Arthur, Rosie; Donnelly, Samantha; Bakshi, Andisheh; Fairclough, Stuart J.; Taylor, Sarah L.; Buchan, Duncan S.								Feasibility and Acceptability of a Classroom-based Active Breaks Intervention for 8-12-Year Old Children								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			813	824		10.1080/02701367.2021.1923627			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: This study explored the feasibility of conducting a classroom-based active breaks intervention on sedentary behavior (SB), physical activity (PA) and attention in 8-12-year-old children. Methods: Eight schools were randomized on a 1:1 basis to the control or intervention. Teachers selected 10 cards detailing an activity break at random. Children then undertook each of the ten activity breaks for 30 s, three times per day for 6 weeks. School and participant recruitment, attrition rates, percentage of outcome measures collected, and acceptability were used to explore the feasibility of the study. Mixed effects models were undertaken to examine intervention effects upon measures of PA, SB and attention. Results: Two hundred and thirty-nine consent forms were issued and 153 were returned (64%). Of the 153 consents, 146 children (95%) were measured at baseline, and 117 participated in the follow-up measures (80%) 6 weeks later suggesting the intervention was acceptable for the participants. From teacher interviews, it was noted that the intervention was feasible to implement, and teachers observed positive classroom behavior changes in children. Inclusion rates for outcome measures ranged from 49% to 66%. Significant, intervention effects were observed for sitting time (B = -27.19; 95%CI: -36.84, -17.17), standing time (B = 23.51; 95%CI 14.1, 32.45) and the number of sit to stand transitions (B = 16.1; 95%CI 4.7, 26.79). Conclusion: Findings suggest that it was feasible and acceptable to implement an active breaks intervention within the classroom setting. Future work should consider the effectiveness of implementing this intervention across a full academic year.		[McLellan, Gillian; Arthur, Rosie; Donnelly, Samantha; Bakshi, Andisheh; Buchan, Duncan S.] Univ West Scotland, Lanarkshire Campus, Hamilton, South Lanarkshi, Scotland; [Fairclough, Stuart J.] Edge Hill Univ, Ormskirk, England; [Taylor, Sarah L.] Leeds Trinity Univ, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Buchan, Duncan S.] Univ West Scotland, Div Sport & Exercise, Exercise Sci, Lanarkshire Campus,Stephenson Pl, Hamilton G72 0LH, South Lanarkshi, Scotland								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000715566700001	77	Article; Article		
J	Lewis, Caleb; Rosalie, Simon M.; Gastin, Paul B.; Withers, Sylvie; Netto, Kevin								The transfer of expertise to aerial skiing: Utility of an athletic profile in female athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	5			1033	1039	17479541211054245	10.1177/17479541211054245			OCT 2022	2022	Australian aerial skiers are recruited from other acrobatic sports through a nationally coordinated transition program. However, there is limited understanding of how to train transferring athletes for both optimal performance and injury prevention. The aim of this study was to test whether an athletic profile could be used to identify which skills that gymnasts possess are more and less likely to transfer to aerial skiing based on similarities and differences in the athletes' physical attributes. Six elite female aerial skiers and five state- and national-level female gymnasts completed a test protocol involving drop-landing, countermovement jump, isokinetic strength of the knee flexors and extensors, flexibility and anthropometrical profile. Aerial skiers and gymnasts had an anthropometrical profile ideal for acrobatic efficiency, but gymnasts had smaller thigh girth and greater knee range of motion. These results suggest that gymnasts are more likely to succeed in transferring to aerial skiing's acrobatic skills than skiing and landing skills. We suggest that gymnasts transferring to aerial skiing undertake pretransfer training designed to improve hamstring isometric strength and dynamic stability of the knee to reduce the risk of knee injury and improve their ability to maintain a crouched position.		[Lewis, Caleb] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Burwood, Australia; [Rosalie, Simon M.; Netto, Kevin] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, GPO Box U1987, Perth, WA 6845, Australia; [Gastin, Paul B.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Withers, Sylvie] Victorian Inst Sport, S Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Rosalie, Simon M.] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, GPO Box U1987, Perth, WA 6845, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000716523400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Mendonca Barboza, Jean Artur; de Almeida Ferreira, Jose Jamacy; Cerqueira, Mikhail Santos; Maciel, Daniel Germano; Matias de Barros, Alef Cavalcanti; Leite, Emmanoel Claudio; Matias, Monayane Grazielly; Lemos, Telma Maria; Nonato, Rusia Dayanny; de Brito Vieira, Wouber Herickson								Can Skin Temperature Be Altered After Different Magnitudes of Eccentric Exercise-Induced Muscle Damage?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			702	709		10.1080/02701367.2021.1909693			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: This study aimed to assess skin temperature (Tsk) changes after different magnitudes of exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD) of the elbow flexor muscles and investigate whether Tsk is related to indirect markers of EIMD. Methods: Thirty healthy active men were randomly allocated to the mild (MiDG) (n = 15) or moderate (MoDG) (n = 15) muscle damage group. Muscle damage in elbow flexor muscles was induced by 10 (for MiDG) or 30 (for MoDG) maximal eccentric isokinetic contractions at 60 degrees/s. Tsk, maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC), delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS), plasma creatine kinase (CK) activity, range of motion (ROM), and pressure pain threshold (PPT) were measured before and up to 72 hr after EIMD. Results: Tsk increased only immediately after EIMD (p f = 1.44) in the MoDG (4.2%) and MiDG (4.6%), returning to near baseline values 30 min after EIMD and remaining so thereafter. In addition, there was no intergroup difference (p > .05) at any of the times analyzed, or correlation between Tsk and most indirect markers of EIMD. Conclusions: In conclusion, Tsk should not be considered an indirect marker of mild or moderate muscle damage in active men, since alterations in this variable last less than 30 min after damaging exercise and showed no correlation with most indirect markers of EIMD.		[Mendonca Barboza, Jean Artur; Cerqueira, Mikhail Santos; Maciel, Daniel Germano; Matias de Barros, Alef Cavalcanti; Leite, Emmanoel Claudio; Matias, Monayane Grazielly; Lemos, Telma Maria; Nonato, Rusia Dayanny; de Brito Vieira, Wouber Herickson] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; [de Almeida Ferreira, Jose Jamacy] Univ Fed Paraiba, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [de Brito Vieira, Wouber Herickson] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Phys Therapy, Av Senador Salgado Filho 3000,Campus Univ, BR-59072970 Natal, RN, Brazil								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000717448100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Teng, Phillis Soek Po; Leong, Kah Fai; Kong, Pui Wah								Regression model for predicting knee flexion angles using ankle plantar flexion angles, body mass index and generalised joint laxity								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			1990	2005		10.1080/14763141.2021.1989480			NOV 1 2024	2024	Increased knee flexion angles are associated with reduced non-contact anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury risks. Ankle plantar flexion angles and internal risk factors could influence knee flexion angles, but their correlations are unknown. This study aimed to establish and validate a regression model to predict knee flexion angles using ankle plantar flexion angles, body mass index (BMI) and generalised joint laxity (GJL) at initial contact of single-leg drop landings. Thirty-two participants performed single-leg drop landings from a 30-cm-high platform. Kinematics and vertical ground reaction forces were measured using a motion capture system and force plate. A multiple regression was performed, and it was validated using a separate data set. The prediction model explained 38% (adjusted R-2) of the change in knee flexion angles at initial contact (p = 0.001, large effect size). However, only the ankle plantar flexion angle (p < 0.001) was found to be a significant predictor of knee flexion angles. External validation further showed that the model explained 26% of knee flexion angles (large effect size). The inverse relationship between ankle plantar flexion and knee flexion angles suggests that foot landing strategies could be used to increase knee flexion angles, thereby reducing non-contact ACL injury risks.		[Teng, Phillis Soek Po; Leong, Kah Fai; Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Inst Sports Res, Singapore, Singapore; [Teng, Phillis Soek Po; Leong, Kah Fai] Nanyang Technol Univ, Sch Mech & Aerosp Engn, Singapore, Singapore; [Teng, Phillis Soek Po] Nanyang Technol Univ, Rehabil Res Inst Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; [Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Inst Sports Res, Singapore, Singapore; [Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000714816200001	41	Article; Article		
J	Provot, Thomas; Nadjem, Aymeric; Valdes-Tamayo, Laura; Bourgain, Maxime; Chiementin, Xavier								Does exhaustion modify acceleration running signature?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2021.1974930				2021	Previous studies have demonstrated the acceleration signal presents a typical running signature, which allows for the extraction of reliable information. However, few studies have focused on the exhaustion-induced variability of the acceleration signature during running. The present study included 10 participants who ran at a constant speed on a treadmill until exhaustion. The participants were equipped with three accelerometers, located at the lumbar spine, tibia, and foot. The results showed that all the participants kept a constant pace throughout the test (coefficient of variation <5%). Similarities between acceleration signatures were observed using the coefficient of multiple correlation. For the longitudinal axis of the lumbar spine, the longitudinal axis of the tibia, and the anteroposterior axis of the tibia, running signatures were not affected by exhaustion (coefficient of multiple correlation >0.8). For all the other axes, the signature was impacted within and between the states of exhaustion. Signatures were particularly different for the foot sensors, which makes it difficult to use to extract reliable information. The results showed that the coefficient of multiple correlation allowed the quantification of the variability of the running signature, and that each axis and measuring point varied in how they were influenced by exhaustion.		[Provot, Thomas; Nadjem, Aymeric; Bourgain, Maxime] Grad Sch Engn, EPF, Sceaux, France; [Provot, Thomas; Valdes-Tamayo, Laura; Bourgain, Maxime] Inst Biomecan Humaine Georges Charpak, Arts & Metiers Inst Technol, IBHGC, UR 4494, F-75013 Paris, France; [Chiementin, Xavier] Univ Reims, MM Inst Therm, Mat, Mecan, Reims, France; [Provot, Thomas] Grad Sch Engn, EPF, Sceaux, France; [Provot, Thomas] Inst Biomecan Humaine Georges Charpak, Arts & Metiers Inst Technol, IBHGC, UR 4494, F-75013 Paris, France								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000714289800001	28	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Aron, Adrian; Harper, Brent; Andrews, Rachel; Boggs, Erica; Stanley, Andrea								The Effect of Whole-Body Fatigue on King-Devick Test and Balance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			788	794		10.1080/02701367.2021.1921103			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Fatigue may mimic suboptimal brain functioning seen after a concussion and lead to false-positive King-Devick (K-D) scores and decreased balance. The purpose of this study was to investigate if whole-body fatigue has an effect on K-D scores or postural sway. Method: A total of 38 healthy participants (20 females; age = 23.5 +/- 2.63 y; height = 170 +/- 0.1 cm; mass = 75.2 +/- 10.3 kg) volunteered for the study. Participants completed the King-Devick (K-D) test and the modified Clinical Test of Sensory Interaction of Balance (mCTSIB) on the Biodex BioSway(TM) Portable Balance System prior to and immediately following the completion of a fatigue protocol on a Concept2 Rower. Results: Half of the participants demonstrated a positive K-D test post-fatigue. Balance scores were poorer post-fatigue. No difference was found between participants based on history of concussion. Among the participants that had a positive post-fatigue K-D test, 71% had also a worse composite sway index score (chi(2) = 6.3, p = .02). Conclusions: Whole-body fatigue may negatively impact a person's ability to perform the K-D test and balance assessments. It is recommended that the athlete is allowed a period of time to accommodate for the acute effects of fatigue before administering these assessments following a suspected concussion.		[Aron, Adrian; Harper, Brent; Andrews, Rachel; Boggs, Erica; Stanley, Andrea] Radford Univ, Roanoke, VA USA; [Harper, Brent] Chapman Univ, Orange, CA USA; [Aron, Adrian] Radford Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 101 Elm Ave, Roanoke, VA 24013 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000713881200001	34	Article; Article		
J	Sitkowski, Dariusz; Cison, Tomasz; Szygula, Zbigniew; Surala, Olga; Starczewski, Michal; Sadowska, Dorota; Malczewska-Lenczowska, Jadwiga								Hematological Adaptations to Post-Exercise Sauna Bathing with No Fluid Intake: A Randomized Cross-Over Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			795	803		10.1080/02701367.2021.1921684			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Sauna bathing is recommended to improve the sports training process, yet empirical evidence confirming its effectiveness is still inconclusive. We examined the effects of post-exercise sauna bathing on hematological adaptations and exercise capacity in healthy men. Methods: Thirteen physical education students participated in randomized cross-over study: two, 4-week interventions, with 10-week washout. The interventions involved 3 times per week 60-min stationary cycling either with 30-min of post-exercise sauna bathing (89 +/- 3 degrees C, 10 +/- 2% RH) or without; no fluid was ingested during both exercise and sauna sessions. Before and after both interventions, participants were tested for total hemoglobin mass (tHb-mass), intravascular volumes, erythropoietin, ferritin, red blood cell parameters with reticulocyte fractions, along with maximal/peak and submaximal variables in a graded exercise test (GXT). Results: Regardless of intervention type, tHb-mass increased (p = .014) whereas ferritin concentration decreased (p = .027); however, changes in tHb-mass were within the range of typical error (<1.8%). Absolute and relative values of maximal power and power at gas exchange threshold, as well as peak oxygen uptake (all p < .010), also increased irrespective of intervention type. Conclusions: The use of post-exercise sauna bathing with fluid intake restrictions does not provide any additional benefits in tested variables over endurance training alone. Thus, further evidence is required before recommendations to utilize this post-exercise conditioning strategy are deemed valid.		[Sitkowski, Dariusz; Surala, Olga; Starczewski, Michal; Sadowska, Dorota; Malczewska-Lenczowska, Jadwiga] Natl Res Inst, Inst Sport, Warsaw, Poland; [Cison, Tomasz] State Univ Appl Sci Nowy Sacz, Krosno, Poland; [Szygula, Zbigniew] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Krakow, Poland; [Malczewska-Lenczowska, Jadwiga] Natl Res Inst, Inst Sport, Dept Physiol, 2-16 Trylogii St, PL-01982 Warsaw, Poland								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000713901300001	36	Article; Article		
J	Castillo-Rodriguez, Alfonso; Munoz-Arjona, Cristobal; Onetti-Onetti, Wanesa								National vs. Non-national Soccer Referee: Physiological, Physical and Psychological Characteristics								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			804	812		10.1080/02701367.2021.1923626			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: The objectives of the present study were to analyze the relationship between psychological variables (self-esteem, anxiety and self-confidence) assessed before the competition and physical and physiological responses demonstrated during the competition in soccer referees and to compare these psychophysical and physiological responses by category (CAT; national and non-national). Method: A total of 153 soccer referees participated (age Mage = 23.2; SD = 4.8 years; experience Mage = 6.0; SD = 4.5 years) in the study. The CSAI-2 and Rosenberg questionnaires were conducted before the match, and match performance data were collected using GPS devices. Results: The results showed significant differences in self-esteem and self-confidence across CATs (p d > .84). The national referees had higher psychological and physical-physiological responses (mean and maximum heart rate) Some correlations were observed among the psychophysical and physiological responses, CAT and age, demonstrating that the age could explain up to 48.4% of the variance the referee CAT (p < .001) and this CAT could explain self-esteem, anxiety and self-confidence by up to 20% of the variance. Conclusions: national referees presented better psychological responses prior to the competition, and also obtained greater physical and physiological records, which could be translated into a better position on the pitch in conflicting plays in order to make a right and just decision.		[Castillo-Rodriguez, Alfonso; Munoz-Arjona, Cristobal] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Granada, Spain; [Munoz-Arjona, Cristobal] Natl Soccer Referee, Granada, Spain; [Onetti-Onetti, Wanesa] Univ Internacl Rioja, UNIR, La Rioja, Spain; [Castillo-Rodriguez, Alfonso] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Ctra Alfacar S-N, Granada 18011, Spain								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000713886400001	71	Article; Article		
J	Cham, Tat-Huei; Cheah, Jun-Hwa; Ting, Hiram; Memon, Mumtaz Ali								Will destination image drive the intention to revisit and recommend? Empirical evidence from golf tourism								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	2			385	409		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2021-0040			APR 5 2022	2022	Purpose Despite being a popular topic in sports tourism research, limited studies have focused on golf tourism in relation to destination image. The present study aimed to examine the impact of country-related factors on the destination image among golf tourists as well as the interrelationships between perceived service quality, perceived value, satisfaction and behavioural intention in this context in the Malaysian context. Excitement was also examined as a moderator of the relationship between satisfaction and behavioural intention. Design/methodology/approach Data was collected from 360 golf tourists using a self-administered questionnaire at the two largest airports (KLIA and KLIA2) in Malaysia. Data analysis was performed using the partial least squares structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM) technique. Findings The findings present the significance of country-related factors (i.e. accessibility, safety and security and golf course setting) in determining the image of Malaysia as a golf tourism destination. Destination image, in turn, is found to influence golf tourists' perceived service quality, perceived value and satisfaction; with both perceived service quality and perceived value acting as mediators between destination image and satisfaction. Moreover, the moderation assessment confirms that the level of excitement about golfing in Malaysia strengthens the relationship between their satisfaction and behavioural intention. Originality/value This study is one of the few that focuses on the consequential importance of destination image within the golf tourism setting. It highlights the mediating role of perceived service quality and perceived value as well as the moderating role of excitement in understanding the effect of destination image on satisfaction and behavioural intention of golf tourists.		[Cham, Tat-Huei] UCSI Univ, UCSI Grad Business Sch, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Cheah, Jun-Hwa] Univ Putra Malaysia, Sch Business & Econ, Serdang, Malaysia; [Ting, Hiram] UCSI Univ, Fac Hospitality & Tourism Management, Sarawak, Malaysia; [Memon, Mumtaz Ali] Natl Univ Sci & Technol, NUST Business Sch, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Memon, Mumtaz Ali] Natl Univ Sci & Technol, NUST Business Sch, Islamabad, Pakistan								49							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000715277900001	110	Article; Article		
J	Collings, Tyler J.; Diamond, Laura E.; Barrett, Rod S.; Timmins, Ryan G.; Hickey, Jack T.; du Moulin, William S.; Goncalves, Basilio A. M.; Cooper, Christopher; Bourne, Matthew N.								Impact of prior anterior cruciate ligament, hamstring or groin injury on lower limb strength and jump kinetics in elite female footballers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				297	304		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.009			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: To compare lower limb strength and countermovement jump (CMJ) kinetics between elite female footballers with and without a history of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR), hamstring strain, or hip/groin injury. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Field-based. Participants: 369 elite female Australian football, soccer and rugby league players aged 15-35. Main outcome measures: Isometric hip adductor and abductor strength, eccentric knee flexor strength, and CMJ vertical ground reaction forces, including between-leg asymmetry. Players reported their lifetime history of ACLR, and whether they had sustained a hamstring strain, or hip/groin injury in the previous 12-months. Results: Players with a unilateral history of ACLR (n = 24) had significant between-leg asymmetry in eccentric knee flexor strength (mean =-6.3%, 95%CI =-8.7 to-3.9%, P < .001), isometric hip abductor strength (mean =-2.5%, 95%CI =-4.3 to-0.7%, P = .008), and CMJ peak landing force (mean =-5.5%, 95%CI =-10.9 to-0.1%, P = .046). Together, between-leg asymmetry in eccentric knee flexor strength, isometric hip abductor strength, and CMJ peak landing force distinguished between players with and without prior ACLR with 93% accuracy. Conclusion: Elite female footballers with a history of ACLR, but not hamstring or hip/groin injury, exhibit persistent between-leg asymmetries in lower limb strength and jump kinetics following a return to sport. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Collings, Tyler J.; Diamond, Laura E.; Barrett, Rod S.; du Moulin, William S.; Goncalves, Basilio A. M.; Cooper, Christopher; Bourne, Matthew N.] Griffith Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Social Work, Gold Coast Campus, Griffith, NSW, Australia; [Collings, Tyler J.; Diamond, Laura E.; Barrett, Rod S.; du Moulin, William S.; Goncalves, Basilio A. M.; Cooper, Christopher; Bourne, Matthew N.] Griffith Univ, Menzies Hlth Inst Queensland, Griffith Ctr Biomed & Rehabil Engn GCORE, Gold Coast Campus, Griffith, NSW, Australia; [Diamond, Laura E.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Ctr Clin Res Excellence Spinal Pain Injury & Hlth, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Timmins, Ryan G.; Hickey, Jack T.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Timmins, Ryan G.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sports Performance Recovery Injury & New Technol, Fitzroy, Vic, Australia; [Bourne, Matthew N.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Collings, Tyler J.] Griffith Univ, Clin Sci 1, Gold Coast, Qld 4215, Australia								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900037	41	Article; Article		
J	Alix-Fages, Carlos; Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Romero-Arenas, Salvador; Calderon Nadal, Giancarlo; Jerez-Martinez, Agustin; Colomer-Poveda, David; Marquez, Gonzalo								Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation Does Not Affect Sprint Performance or the Horizontal Force-Velocity Profile								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			650	658		10.1080/02701367.2021.1893260			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: The aim of this study was to explore the effects of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on sprint performance and the horizontal force-velocity (F-v) profile. Method: Thirty-two healthy subjects (25 men and 7 women; age = 21.8 +/- 2.4 years) completed three sessions separated by 1 week following a double-blinded crossover design. Each session consisted of two maximal sprints of 30 meters that were performed after applying ANODAL, CATHODAL or SHAM tDCS over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) for 15 minutes at 2 mA. The 30-m time and the horizontal F-v profile variables (theoretical maximal force [F-0], theoretical maximal velocity, Fv slope, maximal power [Pmax], decrease in the ratio of horizontal-to-resultant force, and maximal ratio of horizontal-to-resultant force) were compared between the tDCS conditions. Results: No significant differences between the tDCS conditions were observed for any variable (p range = 0.061 to 0.842). The magnitude of the differences was negligible for most of the comparisons (effect size [ES] < 0.20) with the only exception of P-max and F-0 which were greater for the ANODAL compared to the SHAM condition (both ES = 0.20). Conclusions: The application of tDCS over the DLPFC is not effective to increase non-fatigued sprint performance.		[Alix-Fages, Carlos; Marquez, Gonzalo] Univ A Coruna, La Coruna, Spain; [Alix-Fages, Carlos; Romero-Arenas, Salvador; Calderon Nadal, Giancarlo; Jerez-Martinez, Agustin; Colomer-Poveda, David; Marquez, Gonzalo] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, Murcia, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Concepcion, Chile; [Colomer-Poveda, David] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Camino Alfacar 21, Granada 18071, Spain; [Marquez, Gonzalo] Univ A Coruna, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Avd Che Guevara 121, Oleiros 15179, A Coruna, Spain								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000714451500001	44	Article; Article		
J	Glendon, K.; Blenkinsop, G.; Belli, A.; Pain, M.								Prospective study with specific Re-Assessment time points to determine time to recovery following a Sports-Related Concussion in university-aged student-athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				287	296		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.008			NOV 2021	2021	Background: Time to recovery for symptom burden and neurocognition following a Sports-Related Concussion (SRC) has previously been determined by consolidating varying re-assessment time points into a singular point, and has not been established for Vestibular-Ocular-Motor (VOM) function or academic ability. Objectives: Establish when recovery of symptom burden, neurocognition, VOM function, and academic ability occurs in university-aged student-athletes. Methods: Student-athletes completed an assessment battery (Post-Concussion Symptom Scale (PCSS), Immediate Post-Concussion Assessment and Cognitive Test (ImPACT), Vestibular Ocular-Motor Screening (VOMS), Perceived Academic Impairment Tool (PAIT)) during pre-season (n = 140), within 48 hours, 4, 8 and 14 days post-SRC and prior to Return To Play (RTP) and were managed according to the Rugby Football Union' community pathway (n = 42). Student-athletes were deemed recovered or impaired according to Reliable Change Index' (RCI) or compared to their individual baseline. Results: Symptom burden recovers by four days post-SRC on RCI and to baseline by eight days. VOM function and academic ability recovers by 8 days. Some student-athletes demonstrated worse performance at RTP on all tests by RCI and to baseline, except for on VOMS score and near point convergence by RCI change. Conclusions: Variation in individual university-aged student-athletes requires a multi-faceted approach to establish what dysfunctions post-SRC exist and when recovery occurs. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Glendon, K.; Blenkinsop, G.; Pain, M.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Belli, A.] Univ Birmingham, Inst Inflammat & Ageing, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Glendon, K.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Performance Ctr, Epinal Way, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900036	86	Article; Article		
J	Woon, Ee-Lin; Low, Juanita; Sng, Yee-Ling; Hor, Aaron Bingqian; Pua, Yong-Hao								Feasibility, correlates, and validity of the one-leg sit-to-stand test in individuals following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				280	286		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.007			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: Regular quadriceps strength assessment is important following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). The one-leg sit-to-stand (OLSTS) test potentially overcomes the barrier of accessibility to specialised testing equipment. However, feasibility and validity testing of OLSTS is lacking in the ACLR population. This study aims to examine the feasibility, correlates, and predictive validity of OLSTS with self-reported running and jumping difficulty in individuals post-ACLR. Design: Retrospective longitudinal study. Methods: 20 patients with primary unilateral ACLR were tested at 6-months and 1-year post-ACLR. Feasibility was assessed by the number of patients who had safely performed OLSTS at both time points. Cross-sectional gender-adjusted Spearman correlations of OLSTS with quadriceps strength, physical impairments, and psychological variables were measured at 6-months. Predictive validity was assessed via ordinal regression, quantifying the associations of OLSTS with self-reported running and jumping difficulty across time-points. Results: All patients understood the instructions to and were able to self-administer the OLSTS test safely. OLSTS is a valid measure of quadriceps strength (gender-adjusted Spearman's r = 0.53, P = 0.02). Knee pain (r = 0.44, P = 0.046) and readiness to return-to-sport (r = 0.55, P = 0.02) were additional correlates. Greater OLSTS performance was associated with greater odds of better self-reported running and jumping function (interquartile-range ORs, 12.0 [95% CI: 3.6-45] and 18.5 [95% CI: 5-67], respectively). Conclusion: OLSTS is a feasible and valid test of quadriceps strength, demonstrating predictive validity with self-reported running and jumping post-ACLR. OLSTS potentially allows independent tracking of ACLR rehabilitation progress at home an increasingly urgent necessity in the face of a global pandemic. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Woon, Ee-Lin; Low, Juanita; Pua, Yong-Hao] Singapore Gen Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy, Singapore, Singapore; [Pua, Yong-Hao] Duke NUS Grad Med Sch, Med Acad Programme, Singapore, Singapore; [Sng, Yee-Ling; Hor, Aaron Bingqian] Singapore Inst Technol, Dept Hlth & Social Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Pua, Yong-Hao] Singapore Gen Hosp, SingHlth Tower Level 4,10 Hosp Blvd, Singapore 168582, Singapore								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900035	31	Article; Article		
J	MacMillan, Candice; Olivier, Benita; Benjamin-Damons, Natalie								Sport Science Lab® Screening Protocol: The association between physical fitness Parameters and injury among elite rugby players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				272	279		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.002			NOV 2021	2021	Context and objectives: The Sport Science Lab (R) (SSL (R)) screening protocol includes novel methods of assessing flexibility, strength, plyometric ability and rugby specific fitness. The objective of this study was to investigate the association between these tests and injury among professional rugby players. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Fitness facilities of participating teams. Participants: Thirty-nine injury-free, elite, adult (>18 years), male rugby players. Main outcome measures: The test battery consisted of eleven flexibility-, nine strength-and six plyo-metric tests and a rugby specific fitness test (RSFT). Injuries were recorded weekly during the 2019 rugby season. Associations between test results and injuries were analysed utilising suitable tests of association i.e., sensitivity, specificity, false positive rate, false negative rate, positive predictive value and negative predictive value and odds ratios (OR) (with confidence intervals (CI)). Bivariate correlations and logistic regression were performed to assess the relationship of the predictor variables to the outcome. Results: Players who achieved the set standard for the RSFT (OR = 3.17; 95% CI = 0.79-12.75), triple horizontal broad jump (OR = 2.40; 95% CI = 0.86-19.61) and lateral depth jumps (OR = 2.40-3.4 4; 95% CI = 0.53-18.84) were two to three times less likely to sustain an injury during the season. Conclusion: Players with superior rugby specific fitness and cyclic linear-and lateral plyometric ability, may have a decreased risk of sustaining injuries. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[MacMillan, Candice; Olivier, Benita; Benjamin-Damons, Natalie] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, 7 York Rd, ZA-2193 Johannesburg, South Africa; [MacMillan, Candice] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, 7 York Rd, ZA-2193 Johannesburg, South Africa								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900034	31	Article; Article		
J	Worner, Tobias; Thorborg, Kristian; Clarsen, Benjamin; Eek, Frida								Hip and groin function and strength in male ice hockey players with and without hip and groin problems in the previous season- a prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				263	271		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.005			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: To describe and compare hip and groin strength and function of male ice hockey players over one season in players with and without hip and groin problems in the previous season. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Swedish male ice hockey. Participants: We followed 193 players from 10 teams during the 2017/2018 season. Main outcome measures: Hip adduction and abduction strength, 5 s squeeze test (5SST), and self reported hip and groin function (Hip and Groin Outcome Score). Changes over the season and differences between players with and without problems in the previous season were analyzed by linear mixed models. Results: Adduction strength decreased slightly from pre-to mid-season and abduction strength increased slightly over the full season. However, self-reported function or pain did not change. Players with hip and groin problems in the previous season had significantly worse self-reported function, and more groin pain during the 5SST compared to players without. Strength measurments did not differ between groups. Conclusions: Hip muscle strength, groin pain, and self-reported function appear to remain stable throughout the season in male ice hockey players. Remaining impairments in players with problems in the previous season suggest that function does not recover by ice hockey participation alone. (c) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Worner, Tobias; Eek, Frida] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Box 157, S-22100 Lund, Sweden; [Thorborg, Kristian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen, Amager Hvidovre, Denmark; [Clarsen, Benjamin] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Oslo, Norway; [Clarsen, Benjamin] Norwegian Inst Publ Hlth, Ctr Dis Burden, Bergen, Norway; [Worner, Tobias] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Box 157, S-22100 Lund, Sweden								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900033	33	Article; Article		
J	Chang, Rui; Tsang, Raymond Chi-Chung; Jiang, Dong; Liu, Dongsen; Ruan, Bin; Lin, Guohui; Liu, Chunlong; Gao, Qi								Cross-cultural adaptation and measurement properties of the VISA-A questionnaire for Chinese patients with Achilles Tendinopathy								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				256	262		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.006			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: To culturally adapt the VISA-A into a simplified Chinese version (VISA-A-CHN) and test its measurement properties. Design: Methodological study; Setting: Hospital and university laboratory. Participants: 240 subjects were divided into the healthy (n = 80), at-risk (n = 80), and tendinopathy groups (n = 80). Main outcomes measures: The internal consistency, test-retest reliability, construct validity, and the floor and ceiling effect of the VISA-A-CHN. Results: The VISA-A-CHN showed adequate internal consistency (Cronbach's a = 0.73, 95% CI 0.63 to 0.81), excellent test-retest reliability (ICC3A,1 = 0.97, 95%CI = 0.95 to 0.98), standard error of measurement of 2.2 points, minimum detectable change of 6.0 points, with no floor and ceiling effects. Two factors (pain/symptoms and physical function/activity) were extracted in exploratory factor analysis. There were moderate associations of VISA-A-CHN score with scores of Lower Extremity Functional Scale and SF-36 physical components (rs = 0.53-0.74, P < 0.01) but low associations with SF-36 mental components (rs = 0.12-0.22, P > 0.05). VISA-A-CHN mean score of Achilles tendinopathy group was significantly lower than those of healthy and at-risk groups (P < 0.01). Conclusions: The VISA-A-CHN is equivalent to the original version in terms of language and measurement properties. It can be used as the outcome measure for Chinese patients with Achilles tendinopathy. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Chang, Rui; Liu, Dongsen; Ruan, Bin; Lin, Guohui; Liu, Chunlong; Gao, Qi] Beijing Sport Univ, Dept Sports Med & Rehabil, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Tsang, Raymond Chi-Chung] MacLehose Med Rehabil Ctr, Physiotherapy Dept, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Dong] Peking Univ Third Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Gao, Qi] Beijing Sport Univ, Dept Sports Med & Rehabil, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900032	38	Article; Article		
J	Botta, Ana Flavia Balotari; Waiteman, Marina Cabral; Perez, Vitoria Ozores; Garcia, Carmen Lucia Gomes; Bazett-Jones, David Matthew; de Azevedo, Fabio Micolis; Briani, Ronaldo Valdir								Trunk muscle endurance in individuals with and without patellofemoral pain: Sex differences and correlations with performance tests								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				248	255		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.09.012			NOV 2021	2021	Objectives: To compare trunk muscle endurance among females and males with and without patellofemoral pain (PFP), and to investigate the correlations between trunk muscle endurance and performance of the single leg hop test (SLHT) and forward step-down test (FSDT). Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory-based study. Participants: 110 females and 38 males with PFP, 61 females and 31males without PFP. Main outcome measures: Anterior and lateral trunk muscle endurance were assessed with the prone and bilateral side-bridge tests, respectively. Performance during the SLHT and FSDT was also assessed. Results: Lower anterior and lateral trunk muscle endurance were identified in females (p < .001; d =-0.74 to-0.86), but not in males (p > .806; d =-0.04 to 0.05) with PFP as compared to sex-matched controls. Moderate to large, positive correlations between anterior and lateral trunk muscle endurance with performance in the SLHT and FSDT were identified in females (r = .27 to .50; p < .004) and males (r = 0.27 to 0.59; p < .031) with PFP and females without PFP (r = 0.26 to 0.40; p < .044). Conclusion: Our findings highlight that assessing trunk muscle endurance is advised in females with PFP. Trunk muscle endurance of individuals with PFP may have a role in the performance of hopping and stepping down tasks. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Botta, Ana Flavia Balotari; Waiteman, Marina Cabral; Perez, Vitoria Ozores; Garcia, Carmen Lucia Gomes; de Azevedo, Fabio Micolis; Briani, Ronaldo Valdir] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci & Technol, Phys Therapy Dept, 305 Roberto Simonsen St, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil; [Bazett-Jones, David Matthew] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Briani, Ronaldo Valdir] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci & Technol, Phys Therapy Dept, 305 Roberto Simonsen St, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900031	56	Article; Article		
J	Kenny, Sarah J.; Critchley, Meghan L.; Whittaker, Jackie L.; Vijayan, Vineetha Warriyar Kodalore; Emery, Carolyn A.								Association between pre-participation characteristics and risk of injury amongst pre-professional dancers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				239	247		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.003			NOV 2021	2021	Study design: Prospective Cohort Study. Background: Few investigations utilize evidence-informed pre-participation evaluation, inclusive injury definitions, and prospective surveillance to identify risk factors for dance-related injuries. Objective: To evaluate pre-participation characteristics that may be associated with greater odds of dance-related musculoskeletal complaints in pre-professional dancers. Methods: Full-time pre-professional ballet [n = 85, 77 females, median (range) age 15-years (11-19)] and contemporary [n = 60, 58 females, 19-years (17-30)] dancers underwent pre-participation evaluation: baseline questionnaire, coping skills, body mass index, bone mineral density, ankle range-of motion, active standing turnout, lumbopelvic control, and balance tests. Self-reported complaints (any physical problem making dance participation difficult, irrespective of medical attention or time-loss) were captured weekly via online questionnaires for one academic year. Self-reported musculoskeletal complaints were recorded weekly (yes/no). Potential risk factors were identified a-priori through systematic review. Associations between potential risk factors and musculoskeletal complaints were examined with generalized linear mixed method regression models. Results: Response rate was 99%, with 81% of dancers reporting at least one musculoskeletal complaint. Of 1521 complaints (19% first-time, 81% ongoing), the ankle (22%), knee (21%), and foot (12%) accounted for the majority. Injury history [odds ratio (OR) 7.37 (95% CI 3.41, 15.91)] and previous week's dance hours [OR 1.02 (1.01, 1.03)] were associated with dance-related musculoskeletal complaints. Conclusions: Prevalence of musculoskeletal complaints amongst pre-professional dancers is high and associated with injury history and training volume. Further understanding of the relationship between training load and injury is needed, with particular consideration of the dynamic and recursive nature of dance injury etiology. Level of Evidence: Therapy / Prevention, Aetiology / Harm, level 2b. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kenny, Sarah J.; Critchley, Meghan L.; Vijayan, Vineetha Warriyar Kodalore; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kenny, Sarah J.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kenny, Sarah J.; Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, OBrien Inst Publ Hlth, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Whittaker, Jackie L.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Med, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Whittaker, Jackie L.] Arthrit Res Canada, Richmond, BC, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Community Hlth Sci, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Emery, Carolyn A.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Pediat, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Kenny, Sarah J.] 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900030	1	Article; Article		
J	Walston, Zachary; Barillas, Reivian Berrios								The impact of graft type on rehabilitation outcomes following ACL reconstruction: Bone patellar tendon bone versus quadriceps tendon grafts*								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				234	238		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.10.004			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: The aims of this study were to 1) compare the dosage of physical therapy provided for patients following an anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACL-R) with either quadriceps or bone-patellar tendon-bone (BPTB) graft type and their resulting outcomes and 2) investigate the frequency therapists documented surgical graft type. Design: Retrospective observational. Setting: Outpatient orthopedics. Participants: Data was collected from the electronic medical records of 212 patients: BPTB (41) and quadriceps tendon (33) were analyzed. Forty-eight cases were other graft types and 90 were unspecified. Main outcome measure: An independent samples t-test was used to compare differences in knee range of motion (ROM) and Knee Functional Status (FS) between BPTB and quadriceps grafts. Results: There were no differences in knee flexion (p = 0.148) or extension (p = 0.305) ROM between groups at discharge. The quadriceps group achieved greater improvement in functional outcomes (p < 0.001). The quadriceps group received more sessions (p = 0.021) and a longer duration of care (p = 0.007). Conclusions: The significant difference in treatment dosage makes it difficult to conclude which graft is superior. It is unknown if the frequent omission of graft type in the patient chart is an indication of poor documentation practice or a lack of perceived importance in knowing the graft type for PT. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Walston, Zachary] PT Solut Phys Therapy, Atlanta, GA 30318 USA; [Barillas, Reivian Berrios] Univ Pittsburg, Dept Phys Therapy, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Walston, Zachary] PT Solut Phys Therapy, Atlanta, GA 30318 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900029	36	Article; Article		
J	Baez, Shelby; Cormier, Marc; Andreatta, Richard; Gribble, Phillip; Hoch, Johanna M.								Implementation of In vivo exposure therapy to decrease injury-related fear in females with a history of ACL-Reconstruction: A pilot study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				217	223		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.09.009			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: The objective of this pilot study was to examine the preliminary feasibility and efficacy of in vivo exposure therapy (IVET) to decrease injury-related fear in females with history of ACLR. Design: Pilot Study. Setting: Sports Medicine Research Laboratory. Participants: 12 female participants with history of ACLR (>= 1 year post-operative) were randomized into a 5-week IVET group (n = 6) or 5-week sham physical activity (PA) monitoring group (n = 6). Main outcome measures: The independent variables were Group and Time. The dependent variables were the Photographic Series of Sports Activities for ACLR (PHOSA-ACLR) and the Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia-11 (TSK-11) scores. A Group x Time repeated measures two-way analysis of variance was completed for the PHOSA-ACLR and the TSK-11. Partial eta(2) effect sizes were used to examine clinically meaningful differences. Results: High retention and adherence rates were observed in the intervention group. The PHOSA-ACLR exhibited a significant main effect for Time (F1,10 = 9.92, p = 0.01, partial eta(2) = 0.50), but not for Group. No statistically significant or clinically meaningful differences were observed for the TSK-11. Conclusion: Both groups exhibited decreased injury-related fear for specific functional tasks. Future research should further examine the efficacy of IVET and PA monitoring to decrease injury-related fear in patients after ACLR. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Baez, Shelby] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 308 W Circle Dr,112c, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Cormier, Marc] Univ Kentucky, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Promot, Lexington, KY USA; [Andreatta, Richard] Univ Kentucky, Dept Commun Sci & Disorders, Lexington, KY USA; [Gribble, Phillip; Hoch, Johanna M.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Athlet Training & Clin Nutr, Lexington, KY USA; [Baez, Shelby] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 308 W Circle Dr,112c, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900027	25	Article; Article		
J	Hoenig, Tim; Nelson, Evan O.; Troy, Karen L.; Wolfarth, Bernd; Heiderscheit, Bryan C.; Hollander, Karsten								Running-related injury: How long does it take? Feasibility, preliminary evaluation, and German translation of the University of Wisconsin running and recovery index								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				204	208		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.09.007			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: The University of Wisconsin Running Injury and Recovery Index (UWRI) was developed as an evaluative patient-reported outcome measure of perceived running ability and recovery after running related injuries. To date, the questionnaire was not translated into German language and studies on its clinical feasibility and validity are sparse. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Outpatient sports medicine clinic. Participants: The UWRI questionnaire was translated to German language using a state-of-the art back translation method including three translators and two back-translators. Clinical feasibility and validation were assessed in 14 injured runners. Main outcome measures: UWRI total score, running volume. Results: The translation process was completed without major discrepancies. Feasibility and preliminary evaluation were demonstrated in a cohort of 14 injured runners. The UWRI total score significantly improved throughout 12 weeks of recovering from running-related injuries (p < 0.001). Relative running volume significantly correlated with UWRI score (p < 0.001). Conclusion: The University of Wisconsin Running Injury and Recovery Index was successfully translated into the German language. Its usage may hold promise for better rehabilitation surveillance following running-related injuries. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hoenig, Tim] Univ Med Ctr Hamburg Eppendorf, Dept Trauma & Orthopaed Surg, Hamburg, Germany; [Nelson, Evan O.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Family Med & Community Hlth, Madison, WI USA; [Troy, Karen L.] Worcester Polytech Inst, Worcester, MA USA; [Wolfarth, Bernd] Humboldt Univ, Dept Sports Med, Berlin, Germany; [Wolfarth, Bernd] Charite, Berlin, Germany; [Heiderscheit, Bryan C.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, Madison, WI USA; [Hollander, Karsten] MSH Med Sch Hamburg, Inst Interdisciplinary Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Hamburg, Germany; [Hollander, Karsten] MSH Med Sch Hamburg, Kaiserkai 1, D-20457 Hamburg, Germany								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900025	26	Article; Article		
J	Ashigbi, Evans Y. K.; Giesche, Florian; Groneberg, David A.; Banzer, Winfried; Niederer, Daniel								Acute effects of a neuromuscular warm-up on potential re-injury risk factors associated with unanticipated jump landings after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: A crossover trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				194	203		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.09.010			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: To investigate acute effects of a single bout of football specific neuromuscular injury pre-ventive warm-up on potential anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) re-injury risk factors during anticipated and unanticipated jump-landings. Design: Crossover. Methods: Fourteen participants (mean +/- SD age, 23.4 +/- 4.1 years) 6-24 months after ACL reconstruction performed the Prevent Injury and Enhance Performance (PEP) and bicycle ergometer warm-up in a randomised sequence. Washout phase was one week. Countermovement jumps with anticipated and unanticipated single-leg-landings were assessed. Decision-making quality was measured using landing error count. Results: No carry-over effects occurred (p 0.05). The unanticipated task produced significantly higher peak ground reaction forces (D+4%, F(11) = 3.46, p < 0.001, eta2 = 0.21) after PEP warm-up compared to ergometer warm-up. A lower number of decision (D+12%, F (5) = 17.1, p < 0.001, eta2 = 0.57) and cumulated (D+15%, F (3) = 17.2, p < 0.001, eta2 = 0.57) errors were recorded during the unanticipated condition following PEP compared to ergometer warm-up. Conclusions: Evaluating unanticipated jump-landing ability prior to return to sports clearance may provide information on potential re-injury risk factors. PEP warm-up may be superior to bicycle ergometer warm-up at improving unanticipated decision-making quality among athletes cleared to return to sports. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ashigbi, Evans Y. K.; Giesche, Florian; Groneberg, David A.; Banzer, Winfried] Goethe Univ, Inst Occupat Social & Environm Med, Div Prevent & Sports Med, Frankfurt, Germany; [Niederer, Daniel] Goethe Univ, Dept Sports Med & Exercise Physiol, Frankfurt, Germany; [Ashigbi, Evans Y. K.] Univ Hlth & Allied Sci, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil Sci, Accra, Ghana; [Ashigbi, Evans Y. K.] GoetheUniversity, Theodor Stern Kai 7,Haus 9B, D-60590 Frankfurt, Germany								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900024	56	Article; Article		
J	Toyoshima, Yasunao; Akagi, Ryuichiro; Nabeshima, Kazuo								Isometric exercise during immobilization reduces the time to return to play after lateral ankle sprain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				168	172		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.09.002			NOV 2021	2021	[Objectives] Immobilization reduces symptoms after lateral ankle sprain but may worsen the range of motion (ROM) of the ankle and delay return to play (RTP). We aimed to elucidate the correlation between ankle ROM and time to RTP following immobilization for lateral ankle sprain and investigated if isometric exercise during immobilization would increase ROM and shorten the time to RTP. [Participants and outcome measures] Eighty-two patients with acute lateral ankle sprain were treated by a short-leg cast with or without isometric exercise and electrical muscle stimulation (EMS); intervention group or control group, respectively. The correlation between ankle ROM at cast removal and time to RTP was analyzed. The total and side-to-side ankle ROM and the time to RTP were compared between the two groups. [Results] Side-to-side difference in total ankle ROM significantly correlated with time to RTP (r = 0.38, p = 0.02). The intervention reduced the side-to-side difference in total ROM (20 degrees versus 31 degrees, p = 0.01) and time to RTP (46 versus 65 days, p = 0.01) compared to the control group. [Conclusion] Increased deficiency in ankle ROM led to a longer time to RTP, and isometric exercise combined with EMS during immobilization increased the total ankle ROM and shortened the time to RTP. (C) 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Toyoshima, Yasunao; Nabeshima, Kazuo] Hlth & Sports Assoc Nabeshima Orthopaed Clin, Chuo Ku, 4-23-2 Matsunami, Chiba, Chiba 2600044, Japan; [Akagi, Ryuichiro] Chiba Univ, Grad Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chuo Ku, 1-8-1 Inohana, Chiba, Chiba 2608670, Japan; [Akagi, Ryuichiro] Chiba Univ Hosp, Sportsmed Ctr, Chuo Ku, 1-8-1 Inohana, Chiba, Chiba 2608670, Japan; [Akagi, Ryuichiro] Chiba Univ, Grad Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chuo Ku, 1-8-1 Inohana, Chiba, Chiba 2608670, Japan								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900020	19	Article; Article		
J	Frohlich, Stefan; Schweizer, Andreas; Reissner, Lisa; Pastor, Tatjana; Sporri, Joerg; Pastor, Torsten								Long term evolution of soft tissue response in the fingers of high-level sport climbers: A cross-sectional 10 Year follow-up study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				173	179		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.09.006			NOV 2021	2021	Background: Sport climbing induces physiological changes in the body of high-level climbers. In 2012, our study group demonstrated adaptions of elite climbers' soft tissues with thicker A2/A4-pulleys, flexor tendons and palmar plates compared to non-climbers. Objectives: To assess these adaptations over time we examined all 31 (follow up 100%) climbers that participated in that baseline study again using ultrasonography after a follow-up of 10 years. Main findings: (1) In climbers, a significant increase in A2 and A4-pulley and flexor tendon thickness over the last 10 years was observed (p < 0.001), while PIP&DIP palmar plate thickness remained unchanged (p > 0.05); (2) at 10-years follow-up, all soft tissue thickness parameters (incl. palmar plates) were still significantly larger in climbers than in age-matched controls (p < 0.05); (3) as for the association with anthropometrics and climbing performance/experience, a significant association of the current climber's soft tissue thickness could only be found between palmar plate and reached climbing level(p = 0.032) as well as climber's body weight(p = 0.004). Conclusion: An accumulation of repetitive climbing-related stress to the fingers of elite sport climbers over the career induces mechano-adaptation of the A2/A4-pulleys, flexor tendons and palmar plates. At later stages, there is a further significant increase in flexor tendon and pulley thickness, but not for palmar plate thickness. (c) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).		[Frohlich, Stefan; Sporri, Joerg] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Univ Ctr Prevent & Sports Med, Zurich, Switzerland; [Frohlich, Stefan; Sporri, Joerg] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Sports Med Res Grp, Zurich, Switzerland; [Pastor, Torsten] Lucerne Cantonal Hosp, Dept Orthopaed & Trauma Surg, Luzern, Switzerland; [Schweizer, Andreas; Reissner, Lisa; Pastor, Tatjana] Univ Zurich, Balgrist Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed & Trauma Surg, Div Hand Surg, Zurich, Switzerland; [Pastor, Torsten] Kantonsspital Luzern, Spitalstr, CH-6004 Luzern, Switzerland								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900021	18	Article; Article		
J	McAmis, Nicole E.; V. Hardisty, Alexis; Feinn, Richard S.; Garbalosa, Juan C.								A comparison of kinematic demands placed on the knee and hip during two ACL return-to-sport screening maneuvers and an agility test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				155	161		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.09.001			NOV 2021	2021	Objectives: This study's purpose was to compare the kinematic demands placed on the knee and the hip during various biomechanical tests. Design: Retrospective cross-sectional design. Setting: A university research laboratory. Participants: The study sample consisted of 70 NCAA Division I female athletes. Main outcome measures: During the performance of three test maneuvers, a drop vertical jump (DVJ), single leg cross over hop (COH) and modified T-test (AT), the hip and knee joint angles at maximum knee valgus were obtained from marker displacement data collected using a 20-camera motion analysis system. A linear mixed model was used to compare the effect of test on joint angle. Results: A significant difference (p < 0.001) in the frontal and sagittal plane position of the knee and hip was noted between the DVJ, COH, and AT tests at maximum knee valgus. Conclusions: The DVJ, COH, and AT maneuvers do not appear to place the same kinematic stress on the knee, supporting the need for the development of return to sport tests that mimic on field demands. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[McAmis, Nicole E.] Stanford Hlth Care, 300 Pasteur Dr, Stanford, CA USA; [McAmis, Nicole E.; Feinn, Richard S.] Quinnipiac Univ, Frank H Netter MD Sch Med, 370 Bassett Rd, North Haven, CT USA; [V. Hardisty, Alexis; Garbalosa, Juan C.] Quinnipiac Univ, Motion Anal Lab, 370 Bassett Rd, North Haven, CT USA; [V. Hardisty, Alexis; Garbalosa, Juan C.] Quinnipiac Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, 370 Bassett Rd, North Haven, CT USA; [Garbalosa, Juan C.] Quinnipiac Univ, 275 Mt Carmel Ave Hamden,MNH 141a, Hamden, CT 05518 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900018	32	Article; Article		
J	Breen, David; Farrell, Garreth; Delahunt, Eamonn								The clinical assessment of hip muscle strength in professional rugby union players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				115	120		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.08.013			NOV 2021	2021	Groin/hip injuries are prevalent in rugby union (RU). Assessment of hip muscle strength is important when designing bespoke injury prevention and rehabilitation programmes. Objective: The primary aim of this study was to determine normative values of hip muscle strength in elite-level RU players. A secondary aim of this study was to compare the Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS) between players with and without a history of groin/hip injury. Design: Cross-sectional cohort study. Setting: Professional RU club. Participants: 58 male professional RU players competing in the PRO14 league elite club level competition. Main outcome measures: Handheld dynamometry eccentric strength values of hip abduction (ABD), adduction (ADD), internal rotation (IR) and external rotation (ER), HAGOS. Results: Players' dominant (DOM) and non-dominant (NDOM) hip strength values were, 2.38 and 2.34 N m/kg for ABD, 2.79 and 2.71 N m/kg for ADD, 2.69 and 2.55 N m/kg for IR, and 2.65 and 2.54 N m/ kg for ER. ADD:ABD strength ratio was 1.17 +/- 0.26 for the DOM limb and 1.16 +/- 0.24 for the NDOM limb. There was no clinically significant difference in strength between players' DOM and NDOM limbs. Players with a history of groin/hip injury scored lower on four of the HAGOS subscales (pain; symptoms; sport; quality of life) compared to those without a history of groin/hip injury. Conclusions: This study may help establish normative hip strength and HAGOS values for elite-level RU players. The results presented have important implications for the assessment of hip muscle strength and could provide clinical markers for return-to-play following injury. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Breen, David] Performance Team MCFC Acad, CFA Etihad Campus,400 Ashton New Rd, Manchester, England; [Farrell, Garreth] Univ Coll Dublin, Med Dept, Leinster Rugby, Newstead Bldg A, Dublin 4, Ireland; [Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sport Sci, Dublin 4, Ireland; [Breen, David] Acad Dept Med, Manchester City Football Club, CFA Etihad Campus,400 Ashton New Rd, Manchester M11 4TQ, Lancs, England								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900013	40	Article; Article		
J	Heinert, Becky; Rutherford, Drew; Cleereman, Jacqueline; Lee, Maria; Kernozek, Thomas W.								Changes in landing mechanics using augmented feedback: 4-Week training and retention study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				97	102		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.08.007			NOV 2021	2021	Context: Non-contact ACL injuries are common in female athletes during landing tasks. Post-trial per-formance-based feedback may be an effective method to reduce landing forces and knee valgus during landing. Information regarding the retention of these changes based on such training is generally lacking for weekly and monthly retention. Objective: To determine the effectiveness of post-trial feedback training to promote and retain changes in vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) and knee to ankle (K:A) ratio during a dual task drop landing in female collegiate athletes. Design: Repeated measures; Setting: University campus. Participants: 22 female collegiate athletes. Materials and methods: Dual task drop landings were performed over 4 successive weeks with imme-diate post trial feedback on peak vGRF, symmetry, and K:A ratio. K:A ratio was a surrogate measure for knee valgus in drop landing. Results: Significant decreases in vGRF and increases in K:A ratio were found within training sessions (p = .000). Both variables were retained each week over the 4 weeks. Conclusion: Using a custom portable clinical feedback system may be an effective tool in reducing peak vGRFs and knee abduction angles during a drop landing over a 4-week period in female collegiate athletes. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Heinert, Becky; Rutherford, Drew; Cleereman, Jacqueline; Lee, Maria; Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, Dept Hlth Profess, Phys Therapy Program, 1300 Badger St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Heinert, Becky] Gundersen Hlth Syst, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, Dept Hlth Profess, Phys Therapy Program, 1300 Badger St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900011	40	Article; Article		
J	Bunn, Priscila dos Santos; Lopes, Thiago Jambo Alves; Terra, Bruno de Souza; Costa, Helcio Figueiredo; Souza, Marcio Puglia; Braga, Roberta Mendonca; Inoue, Allan; Ribeiro, Fabricio Miranda; Alves, Daniel de Souza; da Silva, Elirez Bezerra								Association between movement patterns and risk of musculoskeletal injuries in navy cadets: A cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				81	89		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.08.003			NOV 2021	2021	Objective: To investigate the association of movement patterns evaluated by the Dynamic Movement Assessment (DMA) with the occurrence of musculoskeletal injuries in navy cadets. Design: Cohort study. Setting: Participants were filmed performing the six functional tests of the DMA (deep squat, step up, single-leg squat, hop, plank and side-plank tests). Participants: 240 navy cadets. Main outcome measurements: Depending on the number of certain movement patterns on the Dynamic Movement Assessment (DMA), participants were classified as high, moderate, medium or low risk of developing injuries. Predictive associations between injuries and risk classification were examined using logistic regression analysis. Results: Considering sex, previous injuries and the type of secondary school as covariates, participants who were classified as high risk were not more likely to develop injuries. Non-military high school was an independent risk factor for any injuries (OR = 3.14, 95% CI [1.43,6.91]; OR = 4.57, 95% CI [1.92,10.83]), overuse injuries (OR = 2.58, 95% CI [1.05,6.30]; OR = 2.55, 95% CI [1.06, 6.14]) and acute injuries (OR = 4.88, 95% CI [1.19,19.99]), respectively. Previous musculoskeletal symptoms also increased the chance of AI (OR = 4.45, 95% CI [1.15,17.18]; OR = 5.91, 95% CI [1.13,30.88]). Conclusions: Movement patterns evaluated by DMA are not associated with an increased risk of injuries. However, attendance of a non-military high school and previous musculoskeletal symptoms are associated with musculoskeletal injuries. (c) 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Bunn, Priscila dos Santos; Inoue, Allan; da Silva, Elirez Bezerra] Univ Estado Rio Janeiro UERJ, Programa Pos Grad Ciencias Exercicio Esporte PPGC, Rua Sao Francisco Xavier, 524 9 Floor Block F, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Bunn, Priscila dos Santos; Lopes, Thiago Jambo Alves; Terra, Bruno de Souza; Costa, Helcio Figueiredo; Souza, Marcio Puglia; Braga, Roberta Mendonca; Inoue, Allan; Ribeiro, Fabricio Miranda; Alves, Daniel de Souza] Ctr Educ Fis Almirante Adalberto Nunes CEFAN, Lab Pesquisa Ciencias Exercicio LABOCE, Ave Brasil,10-590 Penha, BR-2101235 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Bunn, Priscila dos Santos; Lopes, Thiago Jambo Alves; Inoue, Allan] Univ Forca Aerea UNIFA, Programa Pos Grad Desempenho Humano Operac, Marechal Fontenelle 1200,Campo Afonsos, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Bunn, Priscila dos Santos] Ave Brasil,10-590, BR-2101235 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900009	86	Article; Article		
J	Cahanin, Richard; Esleck, Brandon; Hardy, Jonathan; Bass, Brianna; Rogers, Taylor; Looney, Kyle								Development of the Butterfly Agility Test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				38	44		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.08.004			NOV 2021	2021	ABS T R A C T Objectives: To develop a PPT that incorporates multiple components of athletic ability and to assess its reliability. Design: Test-retest experimental design. Setting: Indoor basketball court in southern Alabama, USA. Participants: A convenient sample of 21 asymptomatic subjects (14 male, 7 female). Main outcome measures: Subjects performed the Butterfly Agility Test (BAT), the modified Star Excursion Balance Test (mSEBT), a standing double-legged broad jump (BJ), the Pro Agility Test (PAT), and a forty-yard sprint (40 YS). Results: Overall, the BAT was found to have good reliability (ICC = 0.89, 95 % CI = 0.023-0.97), strong correlation with the PAT (r = 0.73-0.77), moderate correlations with the BJ and 40 YS (r = 0.50-0.60), and moderate correlations with the mSEBT (r = 0.37-0.62). Conclusion: The BAT appears to be a promising composite assessment of athletic ability among young asymptomatic adults, but it is not recommended for clinical use at this time. Level of evidence: 3b. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Cahanin, Richard; Esleck, Brandon; Hardy, Jonathan; Bass, Brianna; Rogers, Taylor; Looney, Kyle] Univ S Alabama, Dept Phys Therapy, 5721 USA North, Mobile, AL 36688 USA; [Cahanin, Richard] Univ S Alabama, Dept Phys Therapy, 5721 USA North, Mobile, AL 36688 USA								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900005	34	Article; Article		
J	Ruffino, Diego; Malliaras, Peter; Marchegiani, Silvio; Campana, Vilma								Inertial flywheel vs heavy slow resistance training among athletes with patellar tendinopathy: A randomised trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				30	37		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.08.002			NOV 2021	2021	Objectives: To compare the efficacy of inertial flywheel and heavy slow resistance training in reducing pain and improving function in patellar tendinopathy. Design: Randomised clinical trial. Methods: Fourty two participants (1 woman, 41 men) with longstanding (>3 months) patellar tendin-opathy were randomised into inertial flywheel resistance (N = 21) or heavy slow resistance (N = 21) group. Both programmes consisted of three supervised inertial flywheel or heavy slow resistance exer-cise sessions per week in a fitness center during 12 weeks. Primary outcome was pain and function, assessed by the Spanish Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment for Patella (VISA-P) score at 6 and 12 weeks. Secondary outcomes were activity limitation using Patient Specific Functional Scale (PSFS), health status (EuroQol-5D), patient impression of change on pain and function, adherence, adverse events, pain provocation test for the patellar tendon (numerical rating score of pain between 0 and 10), physical test, patellar tendon thickness and doppler signal on ultrasound. Secondary outcomes were taken at 0 and 12 weeks. Results: Both groups showed significant improvements in VISA-P scores from 0 to 12 weeks but there was not statistically significant between-group difference (P = 0.506). No adverse events or side effects occurred in any of the groups during the intervention period. Conclusions: Inertial flywheel resistance three times a week during 12 weeks resulted in similar pain and function benefit at 12 weeks compared with the heavy slow resistance training among people with patellar tendinopathy. Flywheel training is another exercise option for managing people with patellar tendinopathy. ClinicalTrials.gov Registry: NCT03917849. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ruffino, Diego] Univ Nacl Cordoba, Fac Ciencias Med, Escuela Kinesiol & Fisioterapia, Ciudad Univ, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina; [Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Physiotherapy Dept, Frankston, Vic 3199, Australia; [Marchegiani, Silvio] Ctr Diagnost Imagenes Marchegiani, Cordoba, Argentina; [Campana, Vilma] Univ Nacl Cordoba, Fac Ciencias Med, Catedra Fis Biomed, Santa Rosa 1085, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina; [Ruffino, Diego] Univ Nacl Cordoba, Fac Ciencias Med, Escuela Kinesiol & Fisioterapia, Ciudad Univ, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina								27							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900004	57	Article; Article		
J	Clark, Nicholas C.; Campbell, Stuart D.								Preseason weight-bearing ankle dorsiflexion in male professional football players with and without a history of severe ankle injury: A novel analysis in an English Premier League club								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				52				21	29		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.07.006			NOV 2021	2021	Objectives: Ankle injuries are common in professional football and have profound player/team/club consequences. The weight-bearing lunge-test (WBLT) assesses ankle dorsiflexion range-of-motion in football primary/secondary injury prevention and performance contexts. Data for uninjured and previously ankle-injured players in the English Premier League (EPL) is not available. This study analysed WBLT measurements (cm) within and between uninjured and previously severe ankle-injured players (injured-stiff group, injured-lax group) in one EPL club. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Preseason. Participants: Forty-nine players (age 22.9 +/- 4.6 yr; height 181.6 +/- 5.2 cm; mass 77.7 +/- 7.6 kg). Main outcome measures: Prevalence (%) of previous unilateral severe ankle injury (USAI). Side-to-side (right/left, dominant/nondominant, injured/uninjured) WBLT comparisons at group-level (t-test [within-group]; Welch's ANOVA [between-group]; effect sizes [within-/between-group]) and individual level (limb symmetry index [%]; absolute-asymmetry [%]). Results: Prevalence of USAI was 38.7%. There were no statistically-significant side-to-side differences for within-/between-group comparisons. Effect sizes: just-below-large (injured-stiff) and extremely-large (injured-lax) for within-group injured-side/uninjured-side comparisons; just-below-medium (injured lax) to just-above-medium (injured-stiff) for injured-side comparisons to uninjured players. Absolute asymmetries: uninjured players, 15.4 +/- 13.2%; injured-stiff, 21.8 +/- 33.6%; injured-lax 20.4 +/- 13.6%. Conclusions: Over one-third of players had previous USAI. Effect sizes indicate substantial within-group side-to-side differences and less substantial between-group differences. Across groups, some players had absolute-asymmetries that may elicit concern in ankle primary/secondary injury prevention and performance contexts. 0 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England; [Campbell, Stuart D.] Tottenham Hotspur Football Club, Hotspur Way, Enfield EN2 9AP, Middx, England; [Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000720117900003	83	Article; Article		
J	Kawai, Eisuke; Gonjo, Tomohiro; Takagi, Hideki								Kinematic and kinetic parameters to identify water polo players' eggbeater kick techniques								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1752	1763		10.1080/14763141.2021.1995477			DEC 2 2023	2023	This study aimed to clarify the kinematic and kinetic parameters that identify the technical differences in the eggbeater kick. Twelve water polo players performed the eggbeater kick, and its kinematics were recorded by a motion capture system. Pressure distributions around the feet were measured by sixteen pressure sensors attached to the dorsal and plantar surfaces of the feet, from which the resultant fluid force acting on the feet and the vertical component of the force (i.e., propulsive force) were estimated. Repeated-measures analysis of variance (including post hoc test) results showed that the pressure difference, due to negative pressure on the dorsal side of the foot, around the first toe was significantly larger than the other foot segments (difference of up to 7 kN/m(2), P < 0.01). Moreover, cluster analysis (including Fisher information) results showed that the kinetic (fluid force and pressure) data had a major influence on clustering; the highest Fisher information was 10.42 for the mean propulsive force. Among the kinematic foot parameters, the influence of the foot angle data on clustering was large, suggesting its importance as a technical parameter of the eggbeater kick in relation to the kinetic data.		[Kawai, Eisuke] Int Budo Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Katsuura, Japan; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Bournemouth Univ, Dept Rehabil & Sport Sci, Poole, Dorset, England; [Kawai, Eisuke] Int Budo Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Katsuura, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000712681400001	27	Article; Article		
J	Donnelly, Samantha; Buchan, Duncan S.; McLellan, Gillian; Arthur, Rosie								The Effects of Socioeconomic Status on Parent and Child Moderate-to-Vigorous Physical Activity and Body Mass Index								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			758	768		10.1080/02701367.2021.1918322			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Physical inactivity and overweight status has been linked to low socioeconomic status (SES) in youth. Parents are known to influence both their child's weight and physical activity (PA). The relationship between parent and child PA is of interest to many researchers; however, previous research typically relies on self-reported measures. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between parent and child moderate-to-vigorous PA (MVPA) and body mass index (BMI) in a sample of children (4-11 years old) using wrist-worn accelerometers and to explore mediating processes by which SES influences child MVPA and BMI through their parents MVPA and BMI. Methods: Parent and child dyads (n = 174) wore an ActiGraph GT3X+ accelerometer on their non-dominant wrist for 7 days. Mediation analyses were conducted to understand the indirect relationships between SES and child MVPA and BMI. Results: Weekend parent and child MVPA was significantly related (p .01). Parent and child BMIs were also significantly related (p < .001). There was a significant negative direct effect of SES on child BMI (p < .05). Additionally, we observed a significant negative indirect effect of SES on child BMI via their parents BMI (B = -.04, SE .02, 95% CI = -.07 to -.01). Conclusions: Whilst parent and child MVPA were significantly related during the weekend, there were no associations between SES and MVPA. Future interventions aiming to improve health outcomes in children should consider the influence SES can have as well as parental activity on children's weekend MVPA.		[Donnelly, Samantha; Buchan, Duncan S.; McLellan, Gillian; Arthur, Rosie] Univ West Scotland, Paisley, South Lanarkshi, Scotland; [Buchan, Duncan S.] Univ West Scotland, Inst Clin Exercise & Hlth Sci, Lanarkshire Campus,Stephenson Pl, Paisley G72 0LH, South Lanarkshi, Scotland								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000712154600001	67	Article; Article		
J	Xie Xiaoyue; Wei Linqiu; Shi Jian; Cheng Yan								Swimming start model and determination of the optimal breakout position								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1796	1798		10.1080/14763141.2021.1983014			OCT 2 2024	2024	While many parameters contribute to swimming start performance, a few have been proven to affect the overall start performance more significantly than others; these include take-off velocity, flight time, entry water distance, time underwater during descent and ascent, and free-swimming velocity. This study aims to analyse the influential trajectory of these key parameters on the overall start performance, particularly focusing on determining the optimal breakout point. Ten national-level swimmers participated in this study, which combined kinematics and statistical analysis to propose a novel start model that can be used to explore the influential trajectory of key parameters on the overall start performance and assess the effect of some training factors for performance improvement. Further, this study investigated the optimal breakout position via a mathematical model. This is the first study to provide a solution to determine this parameter. The solution is verified to be practical through trial data, and the overall start performance is improved by 0.71-3.29%, depending on the swimmer's current level. Therefore, the results can be used as a reference for swimming start training and improvement.		[Xie Xiaoyue; Wei Linqiu; Shi Jian] Chinese Acad Sci, Acad Math & Syst Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Xie Xiaoyue; Wei Linqiu; Shi Jian] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Sch Math Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Cheng Yan] China Inst Sport Sci, Sports Training Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Cheng Yan] China Inst Sport Sci, Sports Training Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000712375600001	29	Article; Article		
J	Hyde, Eric T.; Watson, Kathleen B.; Omura, John D.; Janz, Kathleen F.; Lee, Sarah M.; Fulton, Janet E.; Carlson, Susan A.								Surveillance of Meeting the Youth Physical Activity Guideline: Impact of Including Vigorous-Intensity and Bone-Strengthening Activities								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			728	733		10.1080/02701367.2021.1914303			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: The US youth physical activity guideline recommends participation in four types of physical activity: moderate-to-vigorous intensity aerobic (MVPA), vigorous-intensity aerobic (VPA), muscle-strengthening, and bone-strengthening physical activity. Current national prevalence estimates of meeting the youth physical activity guideline are typically based on measures of the MVPA and muscle-strengthening components. This study sought to examine differences in prevalence estimates using this current approach and then including measures of all four components. Methods: Data from US high school student respondents to the 2010 National Youth Physical Activity and Nutrition Survey were analyzed (n = 10,596). Prevalence of students meeting the youth physical activity guideline were assessed and compared using 1) measures of MVPA and muscle-strengthening components only and 2) also including measures of the VPA and bone-strengthening components. Results: Overall, 15.2% students met the MVPA, 50.7% met the muscle-strengthening, 70.6% met the VPA, and 80.7% met the bone-strengthening components. In total, 12.1% (95% confidence interval: 10.9, 13.3) of students met both the MVPA and muscle-strengthening components, and 11.2% (95% confidence interval: 10.0, 12.4) met all four components. Conclusions: Incorporating additional measures of VPA and bone-strengthening activity into current surveillance systems may not meaningfully impact national estimates of meeting the youth physical activity guideline.		[Hyde, Eric T.; Watson, Kathleen B.; Omura, John D.; Lee, Sarah M.; Fulton, Janet E.; Carlson, Susan A.] Ctr Dis Control & Prevent, Natl Ctr Chron Dis Prevent & Hlth Promot, Atlanta, GA 30341 USA; [Janz, Kathleen F.] Univ Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242 USA; [Hyde, Eric T.] Ctr Dis Control & Prevent, Div Nutr Phys Act & Obes, Res Participat Program, Oak Ridge Inst Sci & Educ, 4770 Bufford Highway NE,MS F-77, Atlanta, GA 30341 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000712217800001	16	Article; Article		
J	Rojano Ortega, Daniel; Berral-Aguilar, Antonio J.; Berral de la Rosa, Francisco J.								Kinetics and Vertical Stiffness of Female Volleyball Players: Effect of Low-intensity Plyometric Training								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			734	740		10.1080/02701367.2021.1915946			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: The purpose of this study was threefold: 1) to assess kinematic/kinetic variables and vertical stiffness of recreational young female volleyball players during a vertical jump, 2) to identify the changes in those variables that occurred after low-intensity plyometric training, 3) to determine the relationship between stiffness and performance. Method: Twenty-eight female volleyball players aged 14-18 years were randomly allocated to plyometric group and control group. All participants performed a countermovement jump (CMJ) 3 days prior to and 3 days after the 7-week plyometric training and kinematic and kinetic variables, along with vertical stiffness, were measured. Results: Jump height, average force, average power, peak power and absolute vertical stiffness significantly increased in plyometric group (p ). Propulsion impulse and normalized vertical stiffness also increased (p ). Maximum displacement of the center of mass significantly decreased in plyometric group (p ). Changes in vertical stiffness after the plyometric training showed very strong significant correlations with changes in average force (r = 0.818, p ), average power (r = 0.784, p ), maximum displacement of the center of mass (r = -0.850, p ) and propulsion duration (r = -0.781, p ). Conclusion: The 7-week low-intensity plyometric training produced changes in most kinematic and kinetic variables improving CMJ performance. The increase in vertical stiffness after plyometric training may not directly enhance jump performance but it makes the jump quicker increasing the probability of success in volleyball games.		[Rojano Ortega, Daniel; Berral-Aguilar, Antonio J.; Berral de la Rosa, Francisco J.] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain; [Rojano Ortega, Daniel] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Dept Informat & Sports, C Maria Fulmen 1 Bloque 2 1E, Seville 41019, Spain								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000712161400001	44	Article; Article		
J	Poloskey, Leah; Finn, Kevin; McInnis, Kyle; Kenneally, Francis; Dowdie, Breanne; Bowling, April								Adapting Active Science to PE Curricula: Examining Feasibility and Acceptability in Low-Income, Urban Public Schools								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			741	748		10.1080/02701367.2021.1917755			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Children in low-income, urban areas are at a greater risk of poor physical activity (PA) and academic outcomes. The purpose of this study was to examine feasibility, acceptability, and engagement of a pilot implementation of the Active Science (AS) exer-learning program in 3(rd) grade physical education (PE) classes to inform potential upscaling after efficacy evaluation. Methods: AS was implemented within PE at five public schools serving low-income, urban neighborhoods, using a phased implementation approach. A mixed methods approach was utilized; feasibility and engagement were measured using quantitative dose and fidelity measures, students were surveyed regarding acceptability, and PE teachers were interviewed pre/post-intervention regarding perceptions of the program. Results: N = 638 students in k = 25 PE classes across five schools averaged 8.8 weeks of AS implementation with nearly universal inclusivity. Students averaged 1468 steps/session; an average of 15% of available PE class time was spent in MVPA. Semi-structured interviews revealed high staff perceptions of feasibility, as well as specific improvements that should be implemented before upscaling. Conclusions: Process and PA measures indicate high feasibility, with excellent engagement across all five schools. Together with high acceptability reported by students and staff, these results show that AS can feasibly integrate into PE classes low-income, urban schools to improve student engagement in both PA and science learning.		[Poloskey, Leah; Finn, Kevin; McInnis, Kyle; Bowling, April] Merrimack Coll, N Andover, MA 01845 USA; [Kenneally, Francis; Dowdie, Breanne] Merrimack Valley YMCA, Lawrence, MA USA; [Poloskey, Leah] Merrimack Coll, Sch Hlth Sci, 315 Turnpike St, N Andover, MA 01845 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000712152700001	25	Article; Article		
J	Rodrigues, Karine Pereira; Prado, Lais; de Almeida, Mariana Luciano; Yamada, Andre Katayama; Finzeto, Larissa Chacon; Bueno Junior, Carlos Roberto								Effects of Combined Versus Multicomponent Training in Physically Active Women Aged 50-75 Years								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			710	717		10.1080/02701367.2021.1910119			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: This study aimed to compare the effects of combined training (CT) and multicomponent training (MT) on different health parameters in physically active women aged between 50 and 75 years. Method: The participants were randomly divided into two training groups (CT and MT), lasting 180 min per week, for 14 consecutive weeks of training with the level of physical activity, anthropometric measurements, blood pressure, strength, cardiorespiratory skills, coordination, flexibility, agility, and quality of life. Results: Participants who underwent CT and MT training showed positive responses regarding the assessment of body mass, waist circumference, lower limb resistance and strength, upper limb strength, and mental domain related to the quality of life. However, only participants undergoing CT were able to increase agility and cardiorespiratory capacities. Conclusion: 14 weeks of CT were more efficient to improve physical capacities in physically active women aged between 50 and 75 years when compared to MT.		[Rodrigues, Karine Pereira; de Almeida, Mariana Luciano; Yamada, Andre Katayama; Finzeto, Larissa Chacon; Bueno Junior, Carlos Roberto] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Prado, Lais] Univ Franca, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Bueno Junior, Carlos Roberto] Harvard Med Sch, 1 Joslin Pl, Boston, MA 02215 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000714440200001	42	Article; Article		
J	Lemos, Luis; Nevill, Alan; Duncan, Michael J.; De Oliveira, Vinicius C.; Pino-Ortega, Jose; Santos, Amilton; Martins, Clarice; Nakamura, Fabio								Sport Specific Skills Differentiates Performance Levels Better Than Anthropometric or Physiological Factors in Beach Handball								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			682	687		10.1080/02701367.2021.1902460			OCT 2 2022	2022	Beach handball is characterized by high- and low-intensity efforts on an unstable surface. Players are expected to display high levels of physical performance on sand, though there are no data concerning success in elite players. Purpose: This study aimed to address anthropometric, fitness, and sport-specific skills components in beach handball, by comparing elite national team beach handball players (world champions) to sub-elite players (playing at a regular club). Method: A total of 91 senior players (more than 21 years old) of both genders (19 world champions) were assessed for anthropometry, 5-m acceleration, 15-m sprint, handgrip strength, horizontal jump, and three specific sport-specific skills (ball velocities in standing, inflight and spin throwing) at a beach court. Anthropometric, physiological, and sport-specific skill test variables were analyzed as a multiple dependent variable using a multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) with sex and level (elite vs sub-elite) as the fixed factors. SPSS (25.0) was used, significance was assumed at p < .05. Results: The results highlighted that for male and female athletes, horizontal jump, 6-m standing, spin, and inflight throwing discriminated between elite and sub-elite groups (p < .001). Conclusion: The study suggests that the factors which differentiate between elite and sub-elite performers in beach handball are horizontal jump and technical ability via the performance of specific throwing skills, rather than anthropometric or any other physical variables, irrespective of sex. These findings highlight some of the relevant physical capacities and skills that need to be developed over the years of preparation of top-level beach handball players.		[Lemos, Luis; Santos, Amilton; Martins, Clarice; Nakamura, Fabio] Phys Educ UPE UFPB, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Nevill, Alan] Univ Wolverhampton, Wolverhampton, England; [Duncan, Michael J.] Coventry Univ, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [De Oliveira, Vinicius C.] Int Fac Paraiba, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Pino-Ortega, Jose] Univ Murcia, Murcia, Spain; [Lemos, Luis] Phys Educ UPE UFPB, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000712403500001	33	Article; Article		
J	Foresti, Yan Figueiredo; Aparecida dos Santos, Danielle Rodrigues; de Souza, Renato Aparecido; Higino, Wonder Passoni								Proposal of a New Specific Test to Assess the Aerobic Performance in Judo								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			688	694		10.1080/02701367.2021.1905762			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Judo is an intermittent sport, dependent on anaerobic metabolism as well as aerobic metabolism to generate energy during a match; however, there are few reliable tests to measure specific aerobic performance in judo. Thus, the present study aimed to propose a new specific and indirect method to assess the aerobic performance in judo athletes; it determined the inter-rater and test-retest reliability of this new protocol and correlated the new protocol with a valid laboratory test. Method: The participants included 15 men, athletes of judo (age average: 21.59 +/- 4.60 years, weight: 80.71 +/- 15.93 kg and height: 173.2 +/- 6.84 cm). The participants performed three tests: the first test was a graded exercise test (GXT) and the second and third tests were the Judo Aerobic Test (JAT). Results: The test presented high test-retest and inter-rater reliability, the intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) ranking of 0.68-0.96, the correlation values ranging from .77 to .96, and no statistical differences between means in test and retest (p > .05). The standard error of measurement and the coefficient of variation between raters presented lower than 10%, indicating reproducibility. Moderate and strong correlations were found between JAT and GXT variables. Conclusion: We concluded that the test presents excellent inter-rater and test-retest reliability and a moderate correlation with GXT.		[Foresti, Yan Figueiredo] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto, Brazil; [Foresti, Yan Figueiredo; Aparecida dos Santos, Danielle Rodrigues; de Souza, Renato Aparecido; Higino, Wonder Passoni] Fed Inst Educ Sci & Technol South Minas Gerais, Pouso Alegre, MG, Brazil; [de Souza, Renato Aparecido; Higino, Wonder Passoni] Univ Fed Alfenas, Alfenas, MG, Brazil; [Foresti, Yan Figueiredo] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Ribeirao Preto, BR-14030680 Ribeirao Preto, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000711777200001	40	Article; Article		
J	Soriano, Marcos A.; Lake, Jason; Comfort, Paul; Suchomel, Timothy J.; McMahon, John J.; Jimenez-Ormeno, Ester; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar								No differences in weightlifting overhead pressing exercises kinetics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2080	2092		10.1080/14763141.2021.1993983			NOV 1 2024	2024	This study aimed to compare the kinetics between the push press (PP), push jerk (PJ), and split jerk (SJ). Sixteen resistance-trained participants (12 men and 4 women; age: 23.8 +/- 4.4 years; height: 1.7 +/- 0.1 m; body mass: 75.7 +/- 13.0 kg; weightlifting experience: 2.2 +/- 1.3 years; one repetition maximum [1RM] PP: 76.5 +/- 19.5 kg) performed 3 repetitions each of the PP, PJ, and SJ at a relative load of 80% 1RM PP on a force platform. The kinetics (peak and mean force, peak and mean power, and impulse) of the PP, PJ, and SJ were determined during the dip and thrust phases. Dip and thrust displacement and duration were also calculated for the three lifts. In addition, the inter-repetition reliability of each variable across the three exercises was analysed. Moderate to excellent reliability was evident for the PP (Intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC] = 0.91-1.00), PJ (ICC = 0.86-1.00), and SJ (ICC = 0.55-0.99) kinetics. A one-way analysis of variance revealed no significant or meaningful differences (p > 0.05, eta(2) <= 0.010) for any kinetic measure between the PP, PJ, and SJ. In conclusion, there were no differences in kinetics between the PP, PJ, and SJ when performed at the same standardised load of 80% 1RM PP.		[Soriano, Marcos A.; Jimenez-Ormeno, Ester] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Strength Training & Neuromuscular Performance Res, Madrid, Spain; [Soriano, Marcos A.; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Activ & Sports Sci, San Javier, Murcia, Spain; [Soriano, Marcos A.; Comfort, Paul; Suchomel, Timothy J.; McMahon, John J.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Frederick Rd Campus, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Lake, Jason] Univ Chichester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Chichester, England; [Lake, Jason; Comfort, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [Soriano, Marcos A.] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Strength Training & Neuromuscular Performance Res, Madrid, Spain; [Soriano, Marcos A.] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Activ & Sports Sci, San Javier, Murcia, Spain; [Soriano, Marcos A.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Frederick Rd Campus, Manchester, Lancs, England								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000711796300001	35	Article; Article		
J	Fujii, Naoto; Fujisawa, Kouta; Dobashi, Kohei; Cao, Yinhang; Matsutake, Ryoko; Lai, Yin-Feng; Nishiyasu, Takeshi								Effects of High-Intensity Exercise Repetition Number During Warm-up on Physiological Responses, Perceptions, Readiness, and Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				94	1			163	172		10.1080/02701367.2021.1950901			JAN 2 2023	2023	Purpose: We investigated whether varying the number of repetitions of high-intensity exercise during work-matched warm-ups modulates physiological responses (heart rate, metabolic responses, and core temperature), perceptions (ratings of perceived exertion, effort of breathing), readiness for exercise, and short-term exercise performance. Methods: Ten physically active young males performed a 30-s Wingate anaerobic test (WAnT) following a warm-up consisting of submaximal constant-workload cycling at 60% maximal oxygen uptake with no high-intensity cycling (constant-workload warm-up) or with 1, 4, or 7 repetitions of 10 s of high-intensity cycling at 110% maximal oxygen uptake. All warm-ups were matched for duration (10 min) and total work. Results: Warm-ups with seven repetitions of high-intensity cycling resulted in higher ratings of perceived whole-body exertion and effort of breathing than the constant-workload warm-up. Warm-up with four repetitions of high-intensity cycling produced greater readiness for a 30-s WAnT (7.33 +/- 0.73 AU) than the constant-workload warm-up (6.33 +/- 0.98 AU) (P = .022). Physiological responses did not differ among the four warm-up conditions, though peak heart rate was slightly higher (similar to 5 beats/min) during warm-up with four or seven repetitions of high-intensity cycling than during the constant-workload warm-up. Peak, mean, and minimum power output during the 30-s WAnT did not differ among the four warm-up conditions. Conclusions: These results suggest that the effects of warm-ups with intermittent high-intensity exercise on physiological responses and short-term high-intensity exercise performance do not greatly differ from a warm-up with a work-matched submaximal constant-workload. However, they appear to modulate perceptions and readiness as a function of the number of repetitions of the high-intensity exercise.		[Fujii, Naoto; Fujisawa, Kouta; Dobashi, Kohei; Cao, Yinhang; Matsutake, Ryoko; Lai, Yin-Feng; Nishiyasu, Takeshi] Univ Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Fujisawa, Kouta; Dobashi, Kohei] Hokkaido Univ, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Cao, Yinhang] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Nishiyasu, Takeshi] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058574, Japan								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000711311200001	30	Article; Article		
J	van der Mars, Hans								2021 Charles H. McCloy Lecture: "You're Not in Kansas Anymore" by Charles H. McCloy								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			573	583		10.1080/02701367.2021.1977771			OCT 2 2021	2021	In this article I envision how Charles H. McCloy might assess the current state of kinesiology in relation to how it evolved from its parent profession of physical education into a field comprised of the scientific enterprise of kinesiology, as well as the related professions and professional preparation programs. I use my interpretation of his scholarship years ago to imagine how he would respond to important developments and advances in the scientific basis of human movement. Overall, despite many advances in the profession, I suspect that he, like I, would opine that the field is at a tipping point. I use his voice to illustrate five key themes that the field must address if it seeks to impact professional practice and the health status of all citizens.		[van der Mars, Hans] Arizona State Univ, Mesa, AZ 85212 USA; [van der Mars, Hans] Arizona State Univ, Mary Lou Fulton Teachers Coll, Polytech Campus, Mesa, AZ 85212 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000711337400001	83	Article; Article		
J	Alon, Anat Toder; Shuv-Ami, Avichai; Bareket-Bojmel, Liad								The positive and negative impacts of social and personal self-categorizations on sport fans' experience								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	3			572	593		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2021-0139			JUN 28 2022	2022	Purpose The current study postulated that fans' social identities (derived from the team sport clubs of which they perceive themselves to be members) coexist with their personal identities (derived from views of themselves as unique, individual sport fans). The study examined the relationship between identity salience and both positive and negative aspects of fans' attitudes, emotions and behaviours. Design/methodology/approach Seven hundred and twelve (712) Israeli professional football fans participated in this study. The study employed a survey drawn from an Internet panel with more than fifty thousand members. Findings Utilizing structural equation modelling (SEM), the authors demonstrated that while social identity salience is related to positive aspects of being a sport fan (love of a favourite team and loyalty), it is also related to negative aspects of being a sport fan (hatred and perceptions of the appropriateness of fan aggression). Personal identity salience was found to be related to the decrease in negative outcomes of being a fan (hatred and perceptions of the appropriateness of fan aggression). Research limitations/implications Marketers and sport organizations will benefit from stimulating sport fans' personal identity salience to mitigate possible negative consequences of team affiliation. Originality/value The current study expands upon past sport management studies by demonstrating the existence of relationships between sport fans' identity salience and their emotions, attitudes and behaviours. The identity salience of fans is relevant from both academic and applicative perspectives.		[Alon, Anat Toder; Bareket-Bojmel, Liad] Peres Acad Ctr, Rehovot, Israel; [Shuv-Ami, Avichai] Coll Management Acad Studies, Rishon Leziyyon, Israel; [Alon, Anat Toder] Peres Acad Ctr, Rehovot, Israel								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000711130300001	108	Article; Article		
J	Lofrano-Prado, Mara Cristina; Donato Junior, Jose; Lambertucci, Adriana Carneiro; Lambertucci, Rafael Herling; Malik, Neal; Ritti-Dias, Raphael Mendes; Correia, Marilia Almeida; Botero, Joao Paulo; Prado, Wagner L.								Recreational Physical Activity Improves Adherence and Dropout in a Non-intensive Behavioral Intervention for Adolescents with Obesity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	4			659	669		10.1080/02701367.2021.1893259			OCT 2 2022	2022	Purpose: The aim of this study was to compare adherence and dropout rates in adolescents with obesity participating in a behavioral-counseling intervention with or without recreational physical activity (PA). Material and methods: Seventy-four adolescents (13 to 18y, 40 girls and 34 boys) with obesity (body mass index [BMI] z-score >= 2.0) were randomized into a counseling group (CG; n = 37) and a counseling + recreational physical activity group (CPAG; n = 37). Adolescents from both groups received behavioral counseling once a week for 12 weeks and monthly for an additional 12 weeks. CPAG adolescents participated in supervised recreational physical activity sessions twice a week for 12 weeks. Body composition, body image dissatisfaction, symptoms of depression, binge eating, bulimia, anorexia and quality of life were assessed at baseline and after 24-weeks. Result: The dropout rate was 2.73 times higher in adolescents from CG compared to CPAG (chi(2) = 4.48; p = .034; R-McF(2) = 0.044). Girls were 2.56 times more likely to withdraw when compared to boys (chi(2) = 3.86; p = .049; R-McF(2) = 0.038). Binomial logistic regression which incorporated sex, intervention group, BMI z-score and BSQ score at baseline (R-McF(2) = 0.177) explained 75% of the dropout rate. Both interventions were effective in reducing waist circumference (p < .01) and improving quality of life, symptoms of depression, bulimia and binge eating (p < .01). Conclusion: Incorporating a recreational physical activity component to a non-intensive behavioral intervention may be a feasible strategy to reduce dropout rates in adolescents with obesity seeking treatment.		[Lofrano-Prado, Mara Cristina; Donato Junior, Jose] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lambertucci, Adriana Carneiro; Lambertucci, Rafael Herling] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Malik, Neal; Botero, Joao Paulo; Prado, Wagner L.] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA; [Ritti-Dias, Raphael Mendes; Correia, Marilia Almeida] Univ Nove de Julho, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Prado, Wagner L.] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Dept Kinesiol, 5500 Univ Pkwy, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000709675200001	75	Article; Article		
J	Hu, Xinyao; Liang, Fenjie; Fang, Zhimeng; Qu, Xingda; Zhao, Zhong; Ren, Zhanbing; Cai, Wenfei								Automatic temporal event detection of the Ollie movement during skateboarding using wearable IMUs								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			2006	2020		10.1080/14763141.2021.1990384			NOV 1 2024	2024	The Ollie movement is about the most dangerous fundamental skateboarding skill. This study proposed a peak heuristic algorithm to detect the key temporal events of the Ollie movement during skateboarding using IMUs. The proposed algorithm was used to detect four key temporal events including take-off (TO), peak flight height (HP), front wheel landing (FL), and back wheel landing (RL). Based on these temporal events, three temporal phases including ascending, descending, and flight were identified. The results showed that our proposed method could help accurately identify these key temporal events and phases. Knowledge of the temporal information about the Ollie movement could provide a basis for quantitative assessment of riders' performance and injury risks. Practically, this proposed algorithm can benefit the outdoor injury risk monitoring of the skateboarding movement.		[Hu, Xinyao; Liang, Fenjie; Fang, Zhimeng; Qu, Xingda; Zhao, Zhong] Shenzhen Univ, Inst Human Factors & Ergon, Coll Mechatron & Control Engn, Shenzhen, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Ren, Zhanbing; Cai, Wenfei] Shenzhen Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Shenzhen, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Qu, Xingda] Shenzhen Univ, Inst Human Factors & Ergon, Coll Mechatron & Control Engn, Shenzhen, Guangdong, Peoples R China								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000709732800001	33	Article; Article		
J	Carreras-Simo, Miquel; Garcia, Jaume								Offensive/Defensive Talent and Sporting Success in Football: Evidence From the Big Five European Leagues								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	3			251	276	15270025211049791	10.1177/15270025211049791			APR 2022	2022	Over the past decade, the sustained growth of the football business has been associated with clubs' interest in investing in players' talent, which has boosted both the transfer market and players' salaries. However, players' talent is heterogeneous, given that both defensive and offensive talent are required. Therefore, clubs have to decide on the optimal talent composition, taking into account the differences in the cost and the productivity of both talents. The article shows that, firstly, clubs' talent composition (ratio between offensive and defensive talent) presents significant differences over time among the Big Five European leagues. Secondly, the talent composition is consistent with maximizing sporting performance (or profit maximization) in the case of Serie A, but not in the case of Bundesliga. Results for Premier League, LaLiga and Ligue 1, are not conclusive with a few exceptions associated with the top teams.		[Carreras-Simo, Miquel] Univ Girona, Dept Empresa, Fac Ciencies Econ & Empresarials, C Univ 10, Girona 17003, Spain; [Garcia, Jaume] Univ Pompeu Fabra, Dept Econ & Empresa, Ramon Trias Fargas 25-27, Barcelona 08005, Spain; [Carreras-Simo, Miquel] Univ Girona, Dept Empresa, Fac Ciencies Econ & Empresarials, C Univ 10, Girona 17003, Spain								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000711019800001	36	Article; Article		
J	Chatzistamoulou, Nikos; Kostas, Kounetas; Theodor, Antonakis								Salary Cap, Organizational Gap, and Catch-up in the Performance of NBA Teams: A Two-Stage DEA Model Under Heterogeneity								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	2			123	155	15270025211022253	10.1177/15270025211022253			FEB 2022	2022	This paper evaluates National Basketball Association teams performance using a two-stage approach under a metafrontier framework. Our approach decomposes overall efficiency into salary-cap and on-court efficiency. Organizational gaps between different organizational structures are calculated as well. The introduction of the salary cap as an important element for a competitive market preventing monopoly formation allows the examination of the effects on different types of performance. Findings reveal that teams experience increased performance while organizational gaps decline. Moreover, a b e t a and s i g m a convergence analysis reveals convergence patterns. Finally, the catch-up index denotes that the speed of convergence increases, especially after the salary cap policy implementation.		[Chatzistamoulou, Nikos] Athens Univ Econ & Business, Sch Econ, ReSEES Lab, Athens, Greece; [Chatzistamoulou, Nikos; Kostas, Kounetas; Theodor, Antonakis] Univ Patras, Dept Econ, Patras, Greece; [Chatzistamoulou, Nikos; Kostas, Kounetas] Univ Ioannina, Dept Econ, Ioannina, Greece; [Kostas, Kounetas] Univ Naples Parthenope, Dept Business & Econ Studies, Naples, Italy; [Kostas, Kounetas] Univ Patras, Dept Econ, Patras, Greece								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000711020300001	55	Article; Article		
J	Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto; Wikstrom, Erik; Garcia-Gallart, Antonio; Sanchis-Sanchis, Roberto; Perez-Soriano, Pedro								Seven-Weeks Gait-Retraining in Minimalist Footwear Has No Effect on Dynamic Stability Compared With Conventional Footwear								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			640	649		10.1080/02701367.2021.1892021			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: To investigate the effects of two different running footwear conditions (transition to minimalist footwear and conventional running footwear) on dynamic postural stability before and after 7 weeks of gait retraining program, and to evaluate the effect of fatigue on dynamic stability. Method: This randomized controlled clinical trial was carried out by 42 recreational male runners, who were randomly divided into two groups; Conventional Footwear Group (CFG) (n = 22) and Minimalist Footwear Group (MFG) (n = 20). Dynamic Postural Stability Index (DPSI), in a fatigued and non-fatigued state, were assessed before and after a gait retraining program. The gait retraining program consisted of three guided training sessions per week for 7 weeks. Training program was mainly focused on running technique and submaximal aerobic training with step-frequency exercises. Minimalist footwear was progressively introduced in the MFG. The CFG and MFG performed the same training exercises and a full body conditioning program. Fatigue was induced using a 30-minute running test at individual 85% of the maximal aerobic speed. Results: No differences in dynamic stability variables were found between MFG and CFG in any of the study condition. MFG and CFG showed better dynamic stability after the intervention program (CFG: 13.1% of change, DPSIpre = 0.3221 +/- 0.04, DPSIpost = 0.2799 +/- 0.04; p < .05; MFG: 6.7% of change, DPSIpre = 0.3117 +/- 0.04, DPSIpost = 0.2907 +/- 0.05). Finally, dynamic stability was significatively lower in both groups after fatigue protocol (p < .05). Conclusions: Following a 7-week gait retraining program, footwear did not affect the results, being the gait retraining program more relevant on improving dynamic stability.		[Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto; Sanchis-Sanchis, Roberto; Perez-Soriano, Pedro] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Wikstrom, Erik] Univ N Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Garcia-Gallart, Antonio] Ministry Interior, Washington, DC USA; [Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, C Gasco Oliag 3, Valencia 46010, Spain								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000708709400001	50	Article; Article		
J	Therell, Terese; Jansson, Daniel; Theos, Apostolos								Effects of Core Strength Training on Skiing Economy in Elite Junior Cross-Country Skiers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			608	614		10.1080/02701367.2021.1887441			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: In cross-country (XC) skiing, the ability to use an efficient technique is essential for performance. The study aimed to compare the effects of supplemental static or dynamic core strength training on skiing economy in elite junior XC skiers. Methods: Twenty-four elite junior XC skiers (14 women, 10 men; 17.8 +/- 1.1 years; 67.8 +/- 10.0 kg, 173.7 +/- 6.4 cm) participated in this study. Participants were allocated either to a static core training (ST) group (n =12) or to a dynamic core training (DT) group (n = 12). Both groups continued their normal aerobic endurance and muscular strength training. Experimental groups performed a 15 minutes, 3 days/week core strength-training program for 9 weeks and in addition to their training. Submaximal and maximal roller ski testing was conducted before and after the 9-week training period. Results: Results showed no significant interaction between groups for energetic costs in any of the submaximal workloads (first, p = .33; second, p =.79; third, p = .25). Pooled data showed a significant improvement in energetic cost pre- to posttesting in the first and third workload (ES 0.40, p = .0006 and ES 0.42, p = .04 respectively). Nine weeks of static or dynamic core strength training in elite junior XC skiers had a small effect on energetic cost in submaximal roller skiing. Conclusion: The type of supplemental core strength training does not seem to affect economy in submaximal roller skiing.		[Therell, Terese; Jansson, Daniel; Theos, Apostolos] Umea Univ, Umea, Sweden; [Theos, Apostolos] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Sect Sports Med, Linnaeus Vag 9, S-90763 Umea, Sweden								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000708722000001	25	Article; Article		
J	Beaumont, Fabien; Delouis, Pierre; Polidori, Guillaume								Numerical aerodynamic database in elite male runners								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	4			880	884	17479541211049693	10.1177/17479541211049693			AUG 2022	2022	This study is motivated by a real lack of quantitative data concerning the aerodynamic forces exerted on world-class runners during running events. The objective of this study is to create a database representative of the morphological diversity of runners but also of the speed which is closely related to the running event. A numerical method was used to estimate the aerodynamic forces exerted on runners of size between 1.6 and 2 m and for speeds ranging from 10 to 40 km/h. The results presented in this study suggest that the aerodynamic force is inherent to two main parameters: the size of the runner which affects the body frontal area and the speed which depends on the running discipline (100 m, middle- or long-distance running horizontal ellipsis ). One of the main results of this study is that, regardless of running speed, the drag force increases by about 56% for a runner's height between 1.6 m and 2 m (frontal area between 0.383 m(2) and 0.596 m(2)). These data could be very useful to determine the value of the horizontal drag forces applied to the runner's waist during physiological measurements performed on a treadmill.		[Beaumont, Fabien; Polidori, Guillaume] Univ Reims, MATIM, Fac Exact & Nat Sci, BP 1039, F-51687 Reims 2, France; [Delouis, Pierre] Univ Reims, ESI REIMS, Reims, France; [Beaumont, Fabien] Univ Reims, MATIM, Fac Exact & Nat Sci, BP 1039, F-51687 Reims 2, France								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000710500300001	14	Article; Article		
J	Shukla, Diksha; Heath, Matthew								A Single Bout of Exercise Provides a Persistent Benefit to Cognitive Flexibility								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			516	527		10.1080/02701367.2021.1873902			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: A single bout of exercise enhances activity within the cortical networks that support executive function. It is, however, unclear whether exercise improves each core component of executive function and for how long a putative benefit might persist. Method: In Experiment 1, participants completed 20-min of aerobic exercise (via cycle ergometer) and cognitive flexibility-a core component of executive function-was examined pre-exercise, and at immediate, 30- and 60-min post-exercise assessments. Experiment 2 entailed a non-exercise control (i.e., participants sat on the ergometer without exercising) involving the same timeline of cognitive flexibility assessment. Cognitive flexibility was measured via stimulus-driven (SD) and minimally delayed (MD) saccades arranged in an AABB paradigm. SD and MD saccades require a response at target onset and after target offset, respectively, with the latter requiring executive control. Work has shown that reaction times for a SD saccade preceded by a MD saccade are longer than when a SD saccade is preceded by its same task-type, whereas the converse switch does not influence performance (i.e., the unidirectional switch-cost). Results: Experiment 1 showed a unidirectional switch-cost at each assessment; however, the switch-cost magnitude was decreased at immediate and 30-min assessments compared to the pre- and 60-min assessments. In contrast, Experiment 2 did not elicit a change in switch-cost magnitude across the different assessments. Discussion/Conclusion: Thus, a single-bout of exercise benefitted the cognitive flexibility component of executive function in the immediate and 30-min post-exercise assessments.		[Shukla, Diksha; Heath, Matthew] Univ Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada; [Heath, Matthew] Univ Western Ontario, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000709191900001	70	Article; Article		
J	Maltagliati, Silvio; Sarrazin, Philippe; Isoard-Gautheur, Sandrine; Rhodes, Ryan E.; Boisgontier, Matthieu P.; Cheval, Boris								I Sit but I Don't Know Why: Investigating the Multiple Precursors of Leisure-Time Sedentary Behaviors								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			548	563		10.1080/02701367.2021.1877246			JUL 3 2022	2022	Background: Precursors driving leisure-time sedentary behaviors remain poorly investigated, despite their detrimental consequences. This study aimed to investigate the predictive validity of controlled and automatic motivational precursors toward reducing sedentary behaviors and being physically active on leisure-time sedentary behaviors. The influence of demographic, physical, socio-professional, interpersonal, and environmental variables was also examined and compared with the associations of motivational precursors. Methods: 125 adults completed questionnaires measuring controlled motivational precursors (i.e., intentions, perceived competence), demographical (i.e., sex and age), physical (i.e., body mass index), and interpersonal (i.e., number of children) variables. Regarding automatic motivational precursors, habit strength and approach-avoidance tendencies were captured using the Self-Report Behavioral Automaticity Index and a manikin task. Time at work was computed as a socio-professional variable, days of the week and weather conditions were recorded as environmental precursors. Participants wore an accelerometer for 7 days and leisure time was identified using notebooks. Associations between the different precursors and the leisure-time sedentary behaviors were examined in linear mixed effect models. Results: Intention to be physically active and habit strength toward physical activity were negatively associated with leisure-time sedentary behaviors. Sex, body mass index, time at work, number of children, day of the week, and weather conditions were more strongly associated with leisure-time sedentary behaviors. Conclusion: Our findings show that, in comparison with other variables, the influence of motivational precursors on leisure-time sedentary behaviors is limited. This study supports the adoption of a broad-spectrum of precursors when predicting sedentary behaviors.		[Maltagliati, Silvio; Sarrazin, Philippe; Isoard-Gautheur, Sandrine] Univ Grenoble Alpes, SENS, Grenoble, France; [Maltagliati, Silvio] Ecole Normale Super Rennes, Rennes, France; [Rhodes, Ryan E.] Univ Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Boisgontier, Matthieu P.] Univ Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Boisgontier, Matthieu P.] Bruyere Res Inst, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Cheval, Boris] Univ Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland; [Maltagliati, Silvio] UFRAPS, 1741 Rue Piscine, F-38041 St Martin Dheres, France; [Cheval, Boris] Campus Biotech,Chemin Mines 9, CH-1202 Geneva, Switzerland								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000707611200001	91	Article; Article		
J	Tristani, L.; Sweet, S.; Tomasone, J.; Bassett-Gunter, R.								Examining Theoretical Factors That Influence Teachers' Intentions to Implement Inclusive Physical Education								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			564	577		10.1080/02701367.2021.1877605			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: The purpose of the current study was to apply the Theoretical Domains Framework (TDF) and Capability, Opportunity, Motivation, and Behavior model (COM-B) to examine theoretical predictors of teachers' intentions to implement inclusive physical education. Methods: Ontario primary and secondary teachers (n = 383) completed an online questionnaire which assessed potential factors associated with intentions toward implementation of inclusive physical education. Results: The final statistical model explained 72% of variance in intentions to implement inclusive physical education with the following theoretical domains identified as significant (p<.05) predictors: knowledge (beta .09), professional role and identity (beta .22), memory, attention, and decision making (beta .14), social influence (beta .37), and emotion (beta -.20). Regarding the COM-B, the component Motivation explained the greatest amount of variance in intentions to implement inclusive physical education. Conclusions: The application of the TDF and COM-B model in this study work to extend current literature through advancing understanding regarding cognitive, affective, and social factors related to teachers' intentions to implement inclusive physical education. Teacher training strategies should take into consideration multidimensional approaches to support teachers' motivations to implement inclusive physical education. Future research and intervention should seek to target and foster factors such as social influences, social/professional role and identity, and knowledge. These factors, in turn, may improve teachers' intentions to implement inclusive physical education.		[Tristani, L.; Bassett-Gunter, R.] York Univ, Toronto, ON MPJ 1P3, Canada; [Sweet, S.] McGill Univ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Tomasone, J.] Queens Univ, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Tristani, L.] York Univ, Toronto, ON MPJ 1P3, Canada								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000709165300001	89	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, Candon; McCannon, Bryan C.								Athletics and Admissions: The Impact of the Penn State Football Scandal on Student Quality								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	2			200	221	15270025211039444	10.1177/15270025211039444			FEB 2022	2022	We ask whether a scandal in a university's athletics department affects the quality of the incoming student body. To do so, we evaluate the child sex abuse scandal at Penn State University in 2011. The violations involved a former employee with the crimes occurring a decade prior. The plausibly-exogenous shock allows us to make a causal identification of the scandal's effect on the university. We use synthetic control methods establishing economically meaningful impacts. We find that the average high school GPA is 0.12 points less and the proportion of students with high SAT Math scores is down 4.8 percentage points.		[Johnson, Candon] US FDA, Silver Spring, MD USA; [McCannon, Bryan C.] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, 1601 Univ Ave,POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [McCannon, Bryan C.] West Virginia Univ, John Chambers Coll Business & Econ, 1601 Univ Ave,POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000709379000001	39	Article; Article		
J	Boronczyk, Felix; Rumpf, Christopher; Breuer, Christoph								Game play and the effectiveness of sponsor signage: visual attention to brand messages in live sport broadcasts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	5			950	965		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2021-0063			SEP 21 2022	2022	Purpose Technological innovations could allow for real-time control of sponsor exposure during sport broadcasts to increase the capacity of sponsor messages to attract attention. While such an approach requires knowledge on the interplay between in-game events and viewers' attention to sponsor signage previous studies have disregarded factors pertaining to the competition itself. To address this gap, this paper investigates the impact of game-related variables on the allocation of viewer attention in live broadcasts. Design/methodology/approach Eye tracking is used to examine the impact of variations in score, ball position and ball possession on soccer fans' attention to sponsor messages during broadcasts. In total, the data comprise n = 36,604 second-by-second observations from 11 participants and games. Findings Logistic regression analysis reveals game time effects and significant interaction effects between possession and the score as well as the ball position variable. Sponsors receive less attention if the attacking team controls the ball near the opponents' goal, particularly if the viewers' preferred team is in possession. Practical implications Property owners and sponsors can exploit these findings to determine the value of sponsor brand exposure more precisely. New systems could further increase message effectiveness through adjustments of sponsor exposure based on real time match event data. Originality/value This study is the first to explore the influence of game-related variables on attention to sponsors. By employing live broadcasts in a near-realistic setting, it further addresses a gap in the literature and adds to the knowledge on sponsor message processing.		[Boronczyk, Felix; Rumpf, Christopher; Breuer, Christoph] Deutsch Sport Hsch Koln, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Boronczyk, Felix] Deutsch Sport Hsch Koln, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000709466700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Akbas, Anna; Marszalek, Wojciech; Bacik, Bogdan; Juras, Grzegorz								Influence of base of support on early postural adjustments and fencing lunge performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1804	1805		10.1080/14763141.2021.1987510			OCT 2 2024	2024	The aim of the study was to examine whether the width of the base of support (BOS) has an influence on early postural adjustments (EPA) and armed upper limb and COM kinematics during lunging. Eight elite female fencers participated in the study. The displacement of the centre of foot pressure (COP) and kinematics of centre of mass (COM) were recorded using force platforms. The kinematics of the wrist of the armed upper limb were obtained using a 3D accelerometer. The results show that EPA were characterised by a very small COP displacement (about 0.6 to 1.2 cm). The COP amplitude showed a tendency to decrease with an increase in BOS width under reaction time conditions. In contrast, a greater BOS width was associated with a significant increase in COM acceleration at foot-off and peak COM acceleration during lunging also under reaction time instructions. The kinematics of the wrist were not influenced by BOS. The results show that in elite fencers, the upper limb movement is dissociated from the whole body movement. We suppose that a small COP amplitude is a postural skill which is integrated into the lunging skill and might influence the acceleration of COM.		[Akbas, Anna; Marszalek, Wojciech; Bacik, Bogdan; Juras, Grzegorz] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland; [Akbas, Anna] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000707120800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Kahane, Leo H.								The Journal of Sports Economics: 20 Years and Counting								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	6			631	636	15270025211049789	10.1177/15270025211049789			AUG 2022	2022	This invited piece provides some thoughts and insights regarding the development and growth of the Journal of Sports Economics from its founding editor.		[Kahane, Leo H.] Providence Coll, Providence, RI 02918 USA; [Kahane, Leo H.] Providence Coll, Econ, Providence, RI 02918 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000708240000001	7	Article; Article		
J	Caves, Kevin; Tatos, Ted; Urschel, Augustus								Are the Lowest-Paid UFC Fighters Really Overpaid? A Comment on Gift (2019)								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	3			355	365	15270025211049790	10.1177/15270025211049790			APR 2022	2022	In a recent article in this Journal, Gift (2019) attempts to measure the marginal revenue product (MRP) of individual Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) fighters. According to Gift's estimates, top-tier UFC Fighters are frequently and substantially underpaid relative to their MRP while "a sizable percentage of UFC fighters generated little to no MRP," and are consequently "overpaid by traditional measures." In this Comment, we examine possible explanations for this finding, including various limitations of Gift's data and methods. We also examine the underlying economics of the sport, in which quasi-fixed broadcast revenue streams, ignored in Gift's MRP estimates, play a large and increasingly dominant role. As Berri et al. (2015) have emphasized, comparisons of athlete compensation and standard MRP metrics (even if estimated correctly) are "meaningless" in the presence of substantial quasi-fixed revenues. Critically, Gift assumes zero MRP for all fighters in all bouts in all non-Pay-Per-View (PPV) events. As a result, Gift's method assumes fighters are "overpaid" for the vast majority (75 percent) of fighter-bouts. Even setting this aside, we argue that Gift's use of Google Trends data-at best an extremely crude proxy for a fighter's contribution to PPV revenue-suffers from measurement error, producing attenuation bias. As a consequence, Gift's data and methods are likely to substantially underestimate UFC fighters' economic value.		[Caves, Kevin] Infotech Consulting, 2970 SW 50th Terrace, Gainesville, FL 32608 USA; [Caves, Kevin] Infotech Consulting, 2970 SW 50th Terrace, Gainesville, FL 32608 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000708046800001	15	Article; Article		
J	Keefer, Quinn A. W.								Sex Differences in High-Level Managerial Jobs: Evidence From Professional Basketball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	3			301	328	15270025211049796	10.1177/15270025211049796			APR 2022	2022	We examine sex differences in a market for high-level managers with simple and clear objectives, head coaches in the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA). We find equal proportions of males and females as first-time coaches, and limited evidence that males inherit slightly worse teams. Also, when hired, males are older and have more experience. Males have slightly higher winning percentages for the first few seasons of coaches' tenures. Furthermore, we find no difference in survival; it is independent of sex and largely determined by performance. Thus, we find female coaches are not held to higher promotion or retention standards in the WNBA.		[Keefer, Quinn A. W.] Calif State Univ San Marcos, Dept Econ, San Marcos, CA 92096 USA; [Keefer, Quinn A. W.] Calif State Univ San Marcos, Dept Econ, San Marcos, CA 92096 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000708047300001	48	Article; Article		
J	Can, Ege; Nichols, Mark W.								The Income Elasticity of Gross Sports Betting Revenues in Nevada: Short-Run and Long-Run Estimates								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				23	2			175	199	15270025211036968	10.1177/15270025211036968			FEB 2022	2022	In May 2018, the Supreme Court overturned the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act, thereby allowing all states to offer sports betting. Prior to this, Nevada was the only state with unrestricted sports betting. Using sports betting data from Nevada, we estimate long-run and short-run income elasticities to determine the growth and volatility of sports betting as a tax base. Sports gambling grows at a similar rate as state income and is stable and insensitive to short-run shocks to income. However, the amount of money kept by casinos, and hence the state, is small compared to other traditional tax bases.		[Can, Ege; Nichols, Mark W.] Univ Nevada, Coll Business Adm, Dept Econ, Reno, NV 89557 USA; [Can, Ege] Southeastern Louisiana Univ, Coll Business, Dept Management & Business Adm, SLU Box 10813, Hammond, LA 70402 USA								7							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000706111100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Demir, Cigdem; Subasi, Burak; Harput, Gulcan								Effects of the COVID-19 confinement period on hip strength, flexibility and muscle injury rate in professional soccer players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	1			56	63		10.1080/00913847.2021.1985384			JAN 2 2023	2023	Objectives This study aimed to examine the effects of COVID-19 confinement on hamstring eccentric strength, hip adduction-abduction strength, and posterior chain flexibility in professional male soccer players. We also aimed to investigate whether muscle strength and flexibility would change when the players returned to play after COVID-19 confinement. Methods Thirty professional male soccer (Age; 24.9 +/- 4.8 yrs, BMI; 22.7 +/- 1.4 kg/m(2)) players participated in this study. Hamstring eccentric strength, hip abduction-adduction strength and posterior chain flexibility (PCF) were measured before (time 1) and after the home confinement period (time 2) and after return to play (time 3). Repeated measures of ANOVA was used for statistical analysis. Results PCF decreased from time 1 to time 2 (p = 0.005) but it increased from time 2 to time 3 (p = 0.03). Hamstring eccentric strength decreased from time 1 to time 2 for both dominant (p = 0.002) and non-dominant (p = 0.04) limbs and no difference was observed between time 2 and time 3 (p > 0.05). Hip abductor and adductor strength did not change between time 1 and time 2 (p > 0.05) but they increased from time 2 and time 3 in the dominant limb (p < 0.05). Five players (16%) had muscle injuries including hamstrings and adductors when they returned to play. Conclusion This study showed that 8-week COVID-19 confinement had an adverse effect on hamstring eccentric strength and PCF and 3 players had hamstring muscle injuries when they returned to play. Therefore, soccer players can be at risk of hamstring muscle injuries due to long-term detraining. Hip abductor and adductor strength seem not to be negatively affected by 8-week COVID-19 confinement. However, 2 players had adductor strain when they returned to play.		[Demir, Cigdem; Subasi, Burak] Hacettepe Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, Ankara, Turkey; [Subasi, Burak] Trabzonspor Soccer Club, Trabzon, Turkey; [Harput, Gulcan] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Ankara, Turkey; [Harput, Gulcan] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Ankara, Turkey								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000705392200001	29	Article; Article		
J	Platt, Brooks N.; Collofello, Brandon; Stockwell, Nicholas; Jacobs, Cale A.; Johnson, Darren L.; Stone, Austin, V								Injury rates in the National Football League during the 2020 COVID-19 season								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	1			50	55		10.1080/00913847.2021.1984819			JAN 2 2023	2023	Objectives The National Football League (NFL) altered the 2020 season due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in canceled preseason games and a dynamic regular season schedule to accommodate for canceled games. The purpose of this study was to evaluate if the disrupted training and preseason schedule lead to increased injury rates as seen in other professional sports. We hypothesized that the overall injury rate would be higher in the 2020 season compared to the 2018-2019 seasons and that this increase will affect all body regions equally. Methods Publicly released NFL weekly injury reports were queried to identify players listed as out or placed on the injured reserve for at least one game in the 2018-2020 seasons. Injuries were categorized into upper extremity, lower extremity, spine/core, head, illness, not injury related and undisclosed injuries. Incidents per 1000 athlete exposures were calculated for the prior two seasons (2018-2019) and for the 2020 season separately. Percentage of injuries occurring in each position was calculated separately for the pre-COVID-19 (2018 and 2019) and post-COVID-19 (2020) cohorts. Incidence rate ratios (IRR) and confidence intervals were used to compare injury rates in 2018-2019 versus 2020. The z-test for proportions was used to determine significant differences between injury incidences. Results The overall incidence rate per 1000 athlete exposures in 2020 was not significantly different compared to pre-COVID-19 seasons (21.6 versus 23.1, IRR 0.94, 95% CI: 0.9-1.0 p > 0.999). The proportion of injuries by position did not change before and after COVID-19 either (p > 0.999). Out listings due to illness were significantly increased during the 2020 season (0.8 versus 0.3, IRR 2.8, 95% CI: 1.4-5.2, p = 0.004). Conclusion The incidence of NFL injuries did not significantly change in 2020. The distribution of injuries did not change with respect to position.		[Platt, Brooks N.; Collofello, Brandon; Stockwell, Nicholas; Jacobs, Cale A.; Johnson, Darren L.; Stone, Austin, V] Univ Kentucky, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 740 S Limestone,K401, Lexington, KY 40503 USA; [Stone, Austin, V] Univ Kentucky, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 740 S Limestone,K401, Lexington, KY 40503 USA								11							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000704539600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Sanghoon; Yu, Ho Yeol; Lee, Hyun-Woo								Motivational determinants of digital ticketing: the mediating effect of service satisfaction and the moderating effect of psychological discomfort								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	2			326	345		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2020-0239			APR 5 2022	2022	Purpose The purpose of the study was (1) to examine the motivational composites determining consumers' continued intention to use digital ticketing via self-service technology (SST) by integrating service satisfaction and (2) to ascertain the differences between consumers according to their psychological discomfort toward technology. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected using a structured questionnaire, and a total of 323 were included in the analysis. Partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) was utilized to test motivational determinants of digital ticketing. In addition, permutation-based multi-group analysis was performed to investigate the differences between consumers with high and low technology discomfort. Findings Both intrinsic and extrinsic motivation are positive predictors of continued intention to use digital ticketing, but only intrinsic motivation has a positive impact on continued intention through service satisfaction. Moreover, the relationship between intrinsic motivation, service satisfaction and continued intention was stronger for consumers with high psychological discomfort than those with low psychological discomfort. Originality/value Given the conspicuous characteristics of the digital ticketing process for sporting events, the insights gained from the study may be of assistance to researchers and practitioners in understanding sport consumers' ticket consumption behavior and the determinants of SST usage.		[Kim, Sanghoon; Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Hlth & Kinesiol, College Stn, TX USA; [Yu, Ho Yeol] Arkansas State Univ, Dept Hlth Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Jonesboro, AR 72401 USA; [Yu, Ho Yeol] Univ Houston, Houston, TX 77004 USA; [Yu, Ho Yeol] Arkansas State Univ, Dept Hlth Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Jonesboro, AR 72401 USA; [Yu, Ho Yeol] Univ Houston, Houston, TX 77004 USA								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000705377500001	51	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Yubing								Reexamining the Motivational Transfer Hypothesis of the Trans-Contextual Model Using Motivational Profiles								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			585	600		10.1080/02701367.2021.1879989			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: The purpose of the study was to reexamine the motivational transfer hypothesis of the trans-contextual model from the perspective of individuals' motivational profiles. Methods: A total of 348 eighth-grade students participated in this study. Participants' motivation for physical education (PE) and physical activity (PA) and their out-of-school PA were measured. Results: Latent profile analysis revealed four similar motivational profiles for PE and PA-Motivated, Autonomous, Average, and Low-motivation. Proportion of agreement index showed that 43% of students had consistent motivational profiles for PE and PA. ANOVA and MANOVA showed that students with the Motivated, Autonomous, and Average profiles had the similar levels of out-of-school PA, which suggested that students with higher levels of self-determined types of motivation tended to have higher levels of out-of-school PA, no matter how high/low the level of their controlled types of motivation. Conclusion: These results partially support the propositions of the trans-contextual model.		[Wang, Yubing] Univ Wisconsin, 131 Williams Ctr,800 Main St, Whitewater, WI 53190 USA; [Wang, Yubing] Univ Wisconsin, 131 Williams Ctr,800 Main St, Whitewater, WI 53190 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000707626500001	49	Article; Article		
J	Noth, Niklas; Koethe, Thomas								A Mathematical Model for the Take-Off in Platform Diving								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			29	37		10.2478/hukin-2021-0097			OCT 2021	2021	In platform diving the take-off phase is of outstanding importance in order to achieve both a high level of performing quality and a high degree of difficulty. The diver has to produce the right forces and direction of the center of mass (COM) in order to attain the required angular momentum and dive height. To support the development of an optimum take-off technique, the Institute for Applied Training Science designed a dryland measuring and feedback system. Using the example of the dive back 11/4 somersault tucked in preparation for the dive back 31/2 somersault tucked (207 C) from the 10-m-platform, kinematic and kinetic reference values for key positions were determined. Therefore, we developed a mathematical model using a multi-step examination plan with the following parts: (1) variables defined using nonparametric correlation analyses rs of the motion parameters, (2) statistical modelling to predict values of the parameters, (3) stochastic modelling. The model is based on a selection of 18 dives from 10 different elite divers of the German Swimming Federation (DSV). The approach presented provides helpful insights into the mechanisms of an optimal take-off enables a target-performance comparison with objective motion parameters and therefore, enables individualized feedback to guide the training process more efficiently.		[Noth, Niklas; Koethe, Thomas] Inst Appl Training Sci, Marschnerstr 29, D-04109 Leipzig, Germany; [Noth, Niklas] Inst Appl Training Sci, Marschnerstr 29, D-04109 Leipzig, Germany								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900004	25	Article; Article		
J	Ciocca, Gianmarco; Tschan, Harald; Tessitore, Antonio								Effects of Post-Activation Performance Enhancement (PAPE) Induced by a Plyometric Protocol on Deceleration Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			5	16		10.2478/hukin-2021-0085			OCT 2021	2021	Post-Activation Potentiation (PAP) is a phenomenon which can improve power performance executed after a previous conditioning activity. PAP is usually evoked through heavy resistance or plyometric exercise. It has been suggested to refer to as Postactivation Performance Enhancement (PAPE) when research is field-based on explosive activities. To our best knowledge, no studies have investigated the effects of PAPE on deceleration performance, which is a key factor in sports involving change of directions. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the influence of a plyometric exercise protocol on a subsequent deceleration running performance. University soccer players (n = 18) performed seven deceleration trials and were assessed at baseline and after similar to 15 s, 2, 4, 8, 12 and 16 min either following a walking control condition (C) or three sets of ten repetitions of alternate-leg bounding (plyometric, P). Results showed no significant differences at any of the trials under the control condition (C) in comparison to the relative baseline. Under the plyometric condition (P), deceleration performance executed two minutes after the plyometric activity resulted in significantly faster results compared to the baseline values (p = 0.042; ES = 0.86, large effect; % of improvement = 4.13 %). The main findings are that plyometric exercise improves a subsequent running deceleration performance, 2 min after its execution. Future investigations should focus on more complex actions such as changes of direction and agility.		[Ciocca, Gianmarco; Tschan, Harald] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sports Sci & Univ Sports, Vienna, Austria; [Tessitore, Antonio] Univ Rome Foro Italico, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Rome, Italy; [Ciocca, Gianmarco] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sports Sci & Univ Sports, Vienna, Austria								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900002	36	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio; Montoya-Vieco, Antonio; Collado, Eladio; Hernando, Barbara; Hernando, Carlos								Pacing and Body Weight Changes During a Mountain Ultramarathon: Sex Differences and Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			71	82		10.2478/hukin-2021-0088			OCT 2021	2021	The study was aimed at comparing pacing adopted by males and females in a 107-km mountain ultramarathon and assessing whether pacing-related variables were associated with intracompetition body weight changes and performance. Forty-seven athletes (29 males; 18 females) were submitted to a cardiopulmonary exercise test before the race. Athletes were also weighted before the start of the race, at three midpoints (33 km, 66 km and 84 km) and after the race. Pacing was analyzed using absolute and relative speeds and accelerometry-derived sedentary time spent during the race. Results showed that females spent less sedentary time (4.72 +/- 2.91 vs. 2.62 +/- 2.14%; p = 0.035; d = 0.83) and displayed a smaller body weight loss (3.01 +/- 1.96 vs. 4.37 +/- 1.77%; p = 0.048; d = 0.77) than males. No significant sex differences were revealed for speed variability, absolute and relative speed. In addition, finishing time was correlated with: speed variability (r = 0.45; p = 0.010), index of pacing (r =-0.63; p < 0.001) and sedentary time (r = 0.64; p < 0.001). Meanwhile, intracompetition body weight changes were related with both the absolute and relative speed in the first and the last race section. These results suggest that females, as compared with males, take advantage of shorter time breaks at aid stations. Moreover, performing a more even pacing pattern may be positively associated with performance in mountain ultramarathons. Finally, intracompetition body weight changes in those races should be considered in conjunction with running speed fluctuations.		[Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio; Montoya-Vieco, Antonio] Univ Valencia, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, C Gasco Oliag 3, Valencia 46010, Spain; [Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio; Montoya-Vieco, Antonio] Vithas 9 Octubre Hosp, Sports Hlth Unit, Valencia, Spain; [Collado, Eladio] Jaume I Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Castellon de La Plana, Spain; [Hernando, Barbara] Jaume I Univ, Dept Med, Castellon de La Plana, Spain; [Hernando, Carlos] Jaume I Univ, Sport Serv, Castellon de La Plana, Spain; [Hernando, Carlos] Jaume I Univ, Dept Educ & Specif Didact, Castellon de La Plana, Spain; [Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio] Univ Valencia, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, C Gasco Oliag 3, Valencia 46010, Spain								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900008	32	Article; Article		
J	Terzi, Elissavet; Skari, Ariadni; Nikolaidis, Stefanos; Papadimitriou, Konstantinos; Kabasakalis, Athanasios; Mougios, Vassilis								Relevance of a Sprint Interval Swim Training Set to the 100-Meter Freestyle Event Based on Blood Lactate and Kinematic Variables								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			153	161		10.2478/hukin-2021-0091			OCT 2021	2021	Sprint interval training (SIT) sets are commonly used by coaches in the training routine of swimmers competing in short-distance events; however, data regarding their relevance to competitive events are scarce. The aim of this study was to examine whether performance variables differed or correlated between a 4 x 50-m maximal swimming set (with a work-to-rest ratio of 1:4) and the 100-m freestyle event. Eleven male and 16 female competitive swimmers aged 16.1 +/- 1.1 years participated in the study. All swimmers trained at least six times a week and had training experience of more than 4 years. They completed the two freestyle tests on different days, in random and counterbalanced order. In each test, speed, blood lactate, stroke rate (SR), and stroke index (SI) were measured. Speed, blood lactate, and SR were higher at the 4 x 50 m compared to the 100 m and were positively correlated between tests (p < 0.001). The SI did not differ significantly, but was positively correlated between tests. Males were faster and had a higher SI than females, but genders did not differ in lactate. Since performance variables were better in the SIT set and correlated with those in the 100-m bout, we suggest that the 4 x 50-m set can be used to improve performance in the 100-m freestyle event. Moreover, this set can help coaches identify which swimmers will swim fastest in the event.		[Terzi, Elissavet; Skari, Ariadni; Nikolaidis, Stefanos; Papadimitriou, Konstantinos; Kabasakalis, Athanasios; Mougios, Vassilis] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Thessaloniki, Lab Evaluat Human Biol Performance, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Kabasakalis, Athanasios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Thessaloniki 54124, Greece								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900015	43	Article; Article		
J	Coelho Rodrigues Junior, Jefferson Fernando; Silva, Alexandre Sergio; Cardoso, Glebia Alexa; Silvino, Valmir Oliveira; Veras-Silva, Acacio Salvador; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Pereira dos Santos, Marcos Antonio								Differences in Nervous Autonomic Control in Response to a Single Session of Exercise in Bodybuilders Using Anabolic Androgenic Steroids								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			93	101		10.2478/hukin-2021-0110			OCT 2021	2021	Considering the role of autonomic nerve activity in blood pressure control, this study aimed to investigate the cardiac autonomic nerve responses after an aerobic exercise session in Anabolic Androgenic Steroids (AAS) users. Twenty men (AAS, n = 9; control group, n = 11) performed an aerobic exercise session (60 min, 70 to 80% of HRmax). Heart rate variability (HRV) was assessed before and during a 60-min post-exercise recovery period. RMSSD (root mean square successive difference of the RR intervals) and the LF/HF ratio (low frequency/high frequency spectra) were also evaluated. The Student's t-test for independent samples was used to compare differences between initial group characteristics. Repeated measures ANOVA was used to compare pre- and post-exercise HRV recovery (p < 0.05). AAS had a lower SDNN (standard deviation of the intervals) (40.8 +/- 16.8 vs. 71.6 +/- 24.7 ms; p = 0.04, d = 1.4) and a higher LF/HF (3.4 +/- 2.1 vs. 1.8 +/- 0.9%; p = 0.03, d = 0.9) before exercise. AAS and controls had similar RMSSD (14.0 +/- 15.8 vs. 18.9 +/- 12.1 ms; p = 0.20) and a LF/HF (2.8 +/- 1.6 vs. 2.4 +/- 1.2 ms; p = 0.41) immediately post-exercise. The between-groups comparison revealed a higher HF/LF at 30 min (4.3 +/- 1.4 vs. 2.5 +/- 1.3%; p = 0.008, d = 1.3) and 60 min (5.0 +/- 2.2 vs. 2.3 +/- 0.8%; p = 0.001, d = 1.6) for the AAS group in the recovery time. This study demonstrated impaired parasympathetic activity at rest and immediately after the exercise session as an adverse effect of AAS usage, but similar behavior regarding the restoration of sympathetic activity.		[Coelho Rodrigues Junior, Jefferson Fernando; Silvino, Valmir Oliveira; Veras-Silva, Acacio Salvador; Pereira dos Santos, Marcos Antonio] Fed Univ Piaui UFPI, Dept Biophys & Physiol, Ministro Petronio Portella Campus, Teresina, Brazil; [Coelho Rodrigues Junior, Jefferson Fernando; Silvino, Valmir Oliveira; Pereira dos Santos, Marcos Antonio] Fed Univ Piaui UFPI, Nucleus Study Physiol Appl Performance & Hlth NEF, Teresina, Brazil; [Silva, Alexandre Sergio; Cardoso, Glebia Alexa] Univ Fed Paraiba, Dept Phys Educ, Lab Appl Studies Phys Training Performance & Hlth, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Silva, Alexandre Sergio; Cardoso, Glebia Alexa] Univ Fed Paraiba, Dept Phys Educ, Associate Grad Program Phys Educ UPE UFPB, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Silvino, Valmir Oliveira; Pereira dos Santos, Marcos Antonio] Fed Univ Piaui UFPI, Rede Nordeste Biotecnol RENORBIO Postgrad Program, Teresina, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] Univ Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, ISMAI, Maia, Portugal; [Pereira dos Santos, Marcos Antonio] Fed Univ Piaui UFPI, Rede Nordeste Biotecnol RENORBIO Postgrad Program, Nucleus Study Physiol Appl Performance & Hlth NEF, Dept Biophys & Physiol, Ministro Petronio Portella Campus, Teresina, Brazil								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900010	35	Article; Article		
J	Boraczynski, Michal; Boraczynski, Tomasz; Gajewski, Jan; Kamelska-Sadowska, Anna Malwina; Gronek, Piotr; Laskin, James								Effects of Intensity Modulated Total-Body Circuit Training Combined with Soccer Training on Physical Fitness in Prepubertal Boys After a 6-Month Intervention								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			207	222		10.2478/hukin-2021-0102			OCT 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of a 6-month high- or moderate-intensity total-body circuit training (CT) program on physical fitness in prepubertal soccer players. Sixty-seven prepubertal boys with a mean age of 11.2 +/- 0.7 years completed the study. Participants from a soccer academy were randomly assigned either to a high-intensity CT group (HCT, n = 22) or a moderate-intensity CT group (MCT, n = 24). A control group (CON, n = 21) comprised age-matched individuals who were not involved in any regular training regime. CT protocols were included in the experimental group's training sessions 3 times per week over 24 weeks as part of their usual weekly training regime. Based on the HR zone method, CT protocols included high- or moderate-intensity (85-95% HRmax or 75-85% HRmax) series of 3 different sets of upper- and lower-body strength exercises with articular and muscular mobilization, all culminated with 40-m sprints. Physical fitness was evaluated by the Eurofit test which included the flamingo balance (FLB), plate tapping (PLT), sit-and-reach (SAR), standing broad jump (SBJ), handgrip (HG), sit-ups (SUP), bent arm hang (BAH), 10x5 m shuttle run (SHR), and the Physical Working Capacity test (PWC170). The two-way ANOVA indicated groupxtime interaction effects for 5 components: the largest was for the SBJ (F-2,F-63 = 42.895, p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.577), and the lowest for the SHR (F-2,F-63 = 5.006, p < 0.01, eta(2) = 0.137) indicating better improvements in the HCT compared to the MCT group. Furthermore, for HCT and MCT groups the highest pre- to post-intervention percentage changes were for the FLB and the SAR, while in the CON group the changes of all physical fitness components were not significant (p < 0.05). In conclusion, the intensity-controlled total-body CT protocol incorporated into a standard soccer training program is effective for enhancement in physical fitness performance in prepubertal soccer players.		[Boraczynski, Michal] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Coll Med, Fac Hlth Sci, 14C Zolnierska St, PL-10719 Olsztyn, Poland; [Boraczynski, Tomasz] Olsztyn Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Olsztyn, Poland; [Gajewski, Jan] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Kamelska-Sadowska, Anna Malwina] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Coll Med, Sch Med, Dept Rehabil & Orthoped, Olsztyn, Poland; [Kamelska-Sadowska, Anna Malwina] Prov Specialist Childrens Hosp Olsztyn, Clin Rehabil, Olsztyn, Poland; [Gronek, Piotr] Univ Sch Phys Educ Poznan, Dept Dance & Gymnast, Lab Genet, Poznan, Poland; [Laskin, James] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Boraczynski, Michal] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Coll Med, Fac Hlth Sci, 14C Zolnierska St, PL-10719 Olsztyn, Poland								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900020	43	Article; Article		
J	Giudicelli, Bruno Barbosa; de Oliveira Luz, Leonardo Gomes; Bezerra Santos, Douglas Henrique; Sarmento, Hugo; Massart, Alain Guy Marie; da Cunha Junior, Arnaldo Tenorio; Field, Adam; Barata Figueiredo, Antonio Jose								Age and Maturity Effects on Morphological and Physical Performance Measures of Adolescent Judo Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			139	151		10.2478/hukin-2021-0090			OCT 2021	2021	Studies assessing age and maturation effects on morphological and physical performance measures of young judokas are scarce. This study aimed to assess the independent and combined effects of chronological age and biological maturation on anthropometry and physical performance of 67 judokas aged 11-14. Participants' anthropometric profiles were assessed, and physical performance tests were completed. Multivariate analyses of variance revealed an independent effect of age (anthropometry: F = 1.871; p < 0.05; Pillai's trace = 0.545; eta(2)(p) = 0.272; physical performance: F = 2.876; p < 0.01; Pillai's trace = 0.509; eta(2)(p) = 0.254) and maturity (anthropometry: F = 10.085; p < 0.01; Pillai's trace = 0.669; eta(2)(p) = 0.669; physical performance: F = 11.700; p < 0.01; Pillai's trace = 0.581; eta(2)(p) = 0.581). There was no significant combined effect of age and maturity. The maturation effect remained significant when controlled for age (anthropometry: F = 4.097; p < 0.01; Pillai's trace = 0.481; eta(2)(p) = 0.481; physical performance: F = 3.859; p < 0.01; Pillai's trace = 0.0.318; eta(2)(p) = 0.318). Inadolescent judokas, the maturation effect on growth and physical performance seems to be more relevant than the age effect, leading to the need to control this effect in training routines and competitive events. As in studies with youth soccer players and other youth athletes, bio-banding can be a strategy for controlling maturation in combat sports.		[Giudicelli, Bruno Barbosa; de Oliveira Luz, Leonardo Gomes; Bezerra Santos, Douglas Henrique; da Cunha Junior, Arnaldo Tenorio] Univ Fed Alagoas, Lab Cineanthropometry Phys Act & Hlth Promot LACA, Campus Arapiraca,Manoel Severino Barbosa Ave, BR-57309005 Arapiraca, Alagoas, Brazil; [Giudicelli, Bruno Barbosa; de Oliveira Luz, Leonardo Gomes; Sarmento, Hugo; Massart, Alain Guy Marie; Barata Figueiredo, Antonio Jose] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, CIDAF Uid Dtp 04213 2019, Coimbra, Portugal; [Field, Adam] Univ Huddersfield, Div Sport & Exercise Sci, Huddersfield, W Yorkshire, England; [Giudicelli, Bruno Barbosa] Univ Fed Alagoas, Lab Cineanthropometry Phys Act & Hlth Promot LACA, Campus Arapiraca,Manoel Severino Barbosa Ave, BR-57309005 Arapiraca, Alagoas, Brazil								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900014	36	Article; Article		
J	Vargas-Macias, Alfonso; Baena-Chicon, Irene; Gorwa, Joanna; Michnik, Robert A.; Nowakowska-Lipiec, Katarzyna; Gomez-Lozano, Sebastian; Forczek-Karkosz, Wanda								Biomechanical Effects of Flamenco Footwork								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			19	27		10.2478/hukin-2021-0086			OCT 2021	2021	Footwork is one of the basic features of flamenco dancing and is performed in traditional high-heeled shoes. The purpose of this study was to analyse the mechanical profile of flamenco dancing in terms of vertical ground reaction force, and knee joint kinematics of the supporting limb in footwork technique in order to understand causes which predispose injuries derived from the practice of flamenco dancing. The participant in our study was a professional female flamenco dancer (34 years, 58 kg, 1.65 m) who performed the ZAP 3 test, a sequence of single strikes of the feet performed continuously for 15 s. 3D lower extremity kinematic data were collected using a five-camera motion analysis system (Vicon; Oxford Metrics Ltd., Oxford, UK). Ground reaction forces were recorded using a Kistler force plate. Our analysis was based on 30 cycles of each lower limb consisting of 177 footwork steps. The vertical component of the ground reaction force did not reveal any significant differences between the left and the right limb. The most dynamic strike was provided by the heel (twice the participant's body weight). The mean angular displacement of the supporting limb's knee was similar to 27 degrees. Results reveal that these impacts could make the knee joint more prone to injuries.		[Vargas-Macias, Alfonso] Telethusa Ctr Flamenco Res, Cadiz, Spain; [Baena-Chicon, Irene; Gomez-Lozano, Sebastian] San Antonio Catholic Univ Murcia, Performing Arts Res Grp, Murcia, Spain; [Baena-Chicon, Irene] Pepa Flores Profess Dance Conservatory, Malaga, Spain; [Gorwa, Joanna] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Biomech, Chair Theory & Methodol Sport, Poznan, Poland; [Michnik, Robert A.; Nowakowska-Lipiec, Katarzyna] Silesian Tech Univ, Fac Biomed Engn, Dept Biomechatron, Zabrze, Poland; [Forczek-Karkosz, Wanda] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech, Jana Pawla II 78, PL-31571 Krakow, Poland; [Forczek-Karkosz, Wanda] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Biomech, Jana Pawla II 78, PL-31571 Krakow, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900003	25	Article; Article		
J	Petrovic, Milos; Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Janicijevic, Danica; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Knezevic, Olivera M.; Mirkov, Dragan M.								Force-Velocity Profile of Competitive Kayakers: Evaluation of a Novel Single Kayak Stroke Test								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			49	59		10.2478/hukin-2021-010049			OCT 2021	2021	The assessment of the force-velocity (F-V) profile in athletes may have important applications for training prescription, injury management, and fatigue monitoring. This study aimed to assess whether a novel single kayak stroke test (SKST) is able to provide the F-V relationship variables (maximum force, maximum velocity and maximum power) of competitive kayakers with acceptable reliability and external validity. Six female (age: 20.3 +/- 3.7 years) and eight male (age: 20.8 +/- 2.4 years) elite kayakers performed the SKST, bench press, bench pull, and short Wingate kayak test. The individual F-V relationships were highly linear [median r (range): left stroke = 0.986 (0.897 0.998); right stroke = 0.987 (0.971 0.999)]. The reliability of the F-V relationship parameters obtained during the SKST was high (within-session: CV _ 4.48% and ICC _ 8.06% and ICC _ 0.65). The validity of the F-V relationship parameters obtained during the SKST was generally very high for maximum power (r range = 0.825 0.975), high for maximum force during both the bench press and the bench pull (r range = 0.751 0.831), and high or moderate for maximal velocity during the bench pull (r = 0.770 0.829) and the bench press (r = 0.355 0.471), respectively. The SKST can be considered a feasible procedure for testing the maximal upper-body muscle mechanical capacities of kayakers.		[Petrovic, Milos; Janicijevic, Danica; Knezevic, Olivera M.; Mirkov, Dragan M.] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Belgrade, Serbia; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Knezevic, Olivera M.] Univ Belgrade, Inst Med Res, Belgrade, Serbia; [Petrovic, Milos] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Belgrade, Serbia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900006	32	Article; Article		
J	Terol-Sanchis, Mario; Elvira-Aranda, Carlos; Jose Gomis-Gomis, Maria; Antonio Perez-Turpin, Jose								The Relationship Between Speed and Strength in the Beach Volleyball Serve								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			39	47		10.2478/hukin-2021-009939			OCT 2021	2021	The objective of this study was to analyze the relationship between isometric force produced in different joints and its effects on the power kick serve speed in beach volleyball as a predictive aspect to improve sports performance. Seven athletes competing at national and international levels (mean +/- standard deviation; age: 21.6 +/- 3.20 years; body height: 1.87 +/- 0.08 cm; body mass 80.18 +/- 7.11 kg) were evaluated using maximum isometric force contractions (i.e., spinal and knee extension, grip by a hand dynamometer (handgrip), internal shoulder rotation, shoulder flexion, elbow flexion and extension, and wrist flexion). Speed of the ball was recorded with a pistol radar and force was measured with a strain gauge. Results showed a relationship between isometric force developed in the internal rotation of the shoulder and speed of the ball (r = 0.76*; p < 0.05). In the remaining isometric exercises, positive low to moderate correlations were found in the spine and knee extension (r = 0.56; p = 0.200) and elbow flexion (r = 0.41; p = 0.375). On the other hand, the remaining isometric exercises obtained weak or non-significant correlations. Force developed in the internal rotation of the shoulder highly correlated with the speed of the power kick, explaining, together with the elbow flexion and the extension of the knee and back, much of the variability of the power kick of beach volleyball athletes.		[Terol-Sanchis, Mario; Elvira-Aranda, Carlos; Jose Gomis-Gomis, Maria; Antonio Perez-Turpin, Jose] Univ Alicante, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Res Grp Phys Act Sci & Sport, Alicante, Spain; [Terol-Sanchis, Mario] Univ Alicante, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Alicante, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900005	48	Article; Article		
J	Barbosa de Lima Pinto, Julio Cesar; Canuto de Oliveira, Romerito Sostenes; Galvao-Coelho, Nicole Leite; de Almeida, Raissa Nobrega; Moreira, Alexandre; Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis								The Effects of Successive Soccer Matches on the Internal Match Load, Stress Tolerance, Salivary Cortisol and Jumping Performance in Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			173	184		10.2478/hukin-2021-0092			OCT 2021	2021	The study aim was to analyze the effects of successive matches on the internal match load, stress tolerance, salivary cortisol concentration and countermovement vertical jump height in twelve youth soccer players (16.6 +/- 0.5 yr; 175 +/- 8 cm; 65 +/- 8 kg) who performed four official matches within a four day-period with a 24-h recovery interval between the matches. The internal match load, monotony index and competitive strain, as well as stress tolerance were examined. Saliva samples were collected and countermovement vertical jump height was assessed 60 min pre and 30 min post each match; delta of salivary cortisol and countermovement vertical jump height for each match were analyzed. Salivary cortisol was analyzed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The results of ANOVA with repeated measures showed no differences between matches for the internal match load (p > 0.05). The scores of the monotony index and competitive strain were 4.3 (+/- 2.3) and 8104 (+/- 6795) arbitrary units, respectively. There was no difference for stress tolerance between matches (p > 0.05). Delta values of salivary cortisol were not different among the assessed matches (F-(3,F-33) = 1.397, p = 0.351, eta(2): 0.09); however, delta of countermovement vertical jump height decreased from match 1 to match 4 (F-(3,F-33) = 8.64, p < 0.001, eta(2): 0.44). The current findings suggest that participating in four successive matches, with 24-h of recovery in between, may not lead to changes in stress tolerance and salivary cortisol of youth players, but it may induce a decrease in players' jumping performance after the fourth match.		[Barbosa de Lima Pinto, Julio Cesar; Canuto de Oliveira, Romerito Sostenes; Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis] Fed Univ Rio Grande do Norte UFRN, Dept Phys Educ, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Galvao-Coelho, Nicole Leite; de Almeida, Raissa Nobrega] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Clin & Toxicol Anal Dept, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Moreira, Alexandre] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Barbosa de Lima Pinto, Julio Cesar] Dept Phys Educ, Av Senador Salgado Filho 3000, BR-59090315 Natal, RN, Brazil								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900017	46	Article; Article		
J	Gustavo Ponce-Gonzalez, Jesus; Corral-Perez, Juan; Saez de Villarreal, Eduardo; Vicente Gutierrez-Manzanedo, Jose; De Castro-Maqueda, Guillermo; Casals, Cristina								Antioxidants Markers of Professional Soccer Players During the Season and their Relationship with Competitive Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			113	123		10.2478/hukin-2021-0089			OCT 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to assess antioxidant markers before and after a mid-season of professional soccer players from the 3rd Spanish Division, and to correlate antioxidant markers with competitive performance. Sixty-five male players (age = 25.3 +/- 4.2 yr, body mass = 73.2 +/- 6.7 kg, body height = 177.8 +/- 5.7 cm) from three soccer clubs from Cadiz (Spain) participated in the study. Body composition, maximal aerobic capacity (VO2max), and baseline antioxidant blood markers (Total Antioxidant Status (TAS) and Reduced glutathione/Oxidized glutathione ratio) were assessed in the first week of the championship season (pre-test) and after 18 weeks in the mid-season (post-test). Soccer performance was registered according to the official classification ranking at both the mid-season and at the end of the season; ranking positions for Team A were 2nd and 1st, for Team B were 5th and 5th, while for Team C were 12th and 14th, respectively. Regression analyses showed that TAS and VO2max were able to independently predict (p < 0.05) performance in our participants. Moreover, antioxidant levels showed significant main effects on performance (p < 0.001); where a higher antioxidant capacity was observed in the best performance soccer team, both before and after the mid-season. Notwithstanding, the competitive period compromised the antioxidant status since TAS levels significantly decreased after the 18-week training program and competition compared with baseline values in all soccer teams (p < 0.001). These results suggest the need of monitoring antioxidants in soccer players to prevent excessive oxidative stress and cellular damage which could compromise success in competition, by adjusting the training loads, diet or ergogenic aids, if needed.		[Gustavo Ponce-Gonzalez, Jesus; Corral-Perez, Juan; Casals, Cristina] Univ Cadiz, MOVE IT Res Grp, Fac Educ Sci, Cadiz, Spain; [Gustavo Ponce-Gonzalez, Jesus; Corral-Perez, Juan; Vicente Gutierrez-Manzanedo, Jose; De Castro-Maqueda, Guillermo; Casals, Cristina] Univ Cadiz, Dept Phys Educ, Fac Educ Sci, 12 Republ Saharaui, Cadiz 11519, Spain; [Gustavo Ponce-Gonzalez, Jesus; Corral-Perez, Juan; Casals, Cristina] Univ Cadiz, Biomed Res & Innovat Inst, Cadiz INiBICA Res Unit, Puerta del Mar Univ Hosp, Cadiz, Spain; [Saez de Villarreal, Eduardo] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Fac Sport, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [De Castro-Maqueda, Guillermo] Univ Cadiz, Dept Phys Educ, Fac Educ Sci, 12 Republ Saharaui, Cadiz 11519, Spain								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900012	48	Article; Article		
J	Pietraszewski, Przemyslaw; Golas, Artur; Krzysztofik, Michal								Comparison of Muscle Activity During 200 m Indoor Curve and Straight Sprinting in Elite Female Sprinters								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			309	316		10.2478/hukin-2021-0111			OCT 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to assess whether peak surface electromyography (sEMG) amplitude of selected lower limb muscles differed during a) curve and straight sprinting, b) sprinting in inside and outside lanes between lower limbs. Eleven well-trained female sprinters (personal best: 24.1 +/- 1.1 s) were included in a randomized within subject design study, in which participants underwent two experimental conditions: all-out 200 m indoor sprints in the innermost and outermost lane. Peak sEMG amplitude was recorded bilaterally from gastrocnemius medialis, biceps femoris, gluteus maximus, tibialis anterior, and vastus lateralis muscles. Left gastrocnemius medialis peak sEMG amplitude was significantly higher than for the right leg muscle during curve (p = 0.011) and straight sprinting (p < 0.001) when sprinting in the inside lane, and also significantly higher when sprinting in the inside vs. outside lane for both curve and straight sprinting (p = 0.037 and p = 0.027, respectively). Moreover, left biceps femoris peak sEMG amplitude was significantly higher during straight sprinting in the inside vs. outside lane (p = 0.006). Furthermore, right and left vastus lateralis peak sEMG amplitude was significantly higher during curve sprinting in the inside lane (p = 0.001 and p = 0.004, respectively) and for the left leg muscle peak sEMG amplitude was significantly higher during curve compared to straight sprinting in the outside lane (p = 0.024). Results indicate that curve sprinting creates greater demands mainly for the gastrocnemius medialis of the inner than the outer leg, but the degree of these requirements seems to depend on the radius of the curve, thus significant changes were noted during sprinting in the inside lane, but not in the outside lane.		[Pietraszewski, Przemyslaw; Golas, Artur; Krzysztofik, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Pietraszewski, Przemyslaw] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900028	27	Article; Article		
J	Zanetti, Vinicius; Aoki, Marcelo Saldanha; Bradley, Paul; Carling, Christopher; Marino, Thomas Kisil; Moreira, Alexandre								Running Performance and Hormonal, Maturity and Physical Variables in Starting and Non-Starting Elite U14 Soccer Players During a Congested Match Schedule								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			287	295		10.2478/hukin-2021-0096			OCT 2021	2021	This study examined changes in match running performance (MRP) in Under-14 soccer players (13.5 +/- 0.7 yrs) during a congested match schedule (CMS) (4 matches played within a 5-day period). It also examined the difference in salivary testosterone (sT) concentration, somatic maturation, jumping tests, and Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 1 (Yo-Yo IR1) between the players selected to play (SLG; group who participated in all matches) and players non-selected to play (NSG). A significant difference was observed for the frequency of decelerations (DEC) across matches (match 4 vs. matches 1, 2 and 3; p = 0.05; partial eta(2) = 0.20). No difference between matches was observed for total running distance (TRD), high-speed running distance (HSRD), and frequency of accelerations (ACC) (p > 0.05). A wide range for within-player coefficient of variation (CV) values was observed for all MRP variables (range: 10.5 = TRD to 30.6 = HSRD). No difference between SLG and NSG for any of the assessed variables was observed (p > 0.05). The findings suggest that DEC was the most pertinent variable for monitoring changes in MRP during the CMS. In addition, at an elite youth soccer level, the biological maturity and fitness might not influence selection to play.		[Zanetti, Vinicius; Marino, Thomas Kisil; Moreira, Alexandre] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Zanetti, Vinicius] Red Bull Brazil, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Aoki, Marcelo Saldanha] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Bradley, Paul] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Carling, Christopher] French Football Federat, Ctr Elite Performance, F-75015 Paris, France; [Moreira, Alexandre] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Av Prof Mello Moraes 65,Cidade Univ, BR-05508030 Sao Paulo, Brazil								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900026	35	Article; Article		
J	Wasik, Jacek; Mosler, Dariusz; Ortenburger, Dorota; Gora, Tomasz; Cholewa, Jaroslaw								Kinematic Effects of the Target on the Velocity of Taekwon-Do Roundhouse Kicks								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			61	69		10.2478/hukin-2021-010361			OCT 2021	2021	The phenomena of target kinematic effects under different striking conditions and applying different techniques constitute one of the fields of research for sports biomechanics. However, the influence of some kinematic variables which change under different strike conditions for specific parts of the lower limb remains unknown. The aim of this study was to extend the knowledge on how targets of different shapes or the lack of a physical target would affect maximal velocity registered by a marker placed on the foot, knee and hip during the execution of a roundhouse kick. In total, 15 adult males were included in this study. All participants were taekwon-do elite athletes. The displacement of markers placed on the lateral side of the foot, knee and hip during movement execution was registered by a stereophotogrammetry apparatus. Participants performed taekwon-do roundhouse kicks for three target types (into the air, a table tennis ball and a training shield) applying either a sport or a traditional style. The highest maximal velocity was obtained for kicking into the training shield. When applying the sport style, the highest maximal velocity of foot markers for the executed kicks was registered. Kicking into air resulted in higher velocities for proximal body parts than kicking into a tennis ball, but the effect was reversed for the foot marker. In conclusion, a large resistance target is suitable for athletes' motor preparation as it allows the highest maximum velocity to be reached. Small non-resistant targets are recommended for technical training.		[Wasik, Jacek; Mosler, Dariusz; Ortenburger, Dorota; Gora, Tomasz] Jan Dlugosz Univ Czestochowa, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Prevent, Czestochowa, Poland; [Cholewa, Jaroslaw] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Hlth Related Phys Act & Tourism, Katowice, Poland; [Wasik, Jacek] Jan Dlugosz Univ Czestochowa, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Prevent, Czestochowa, Poland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900007	28	Article; Article		
J	Carrasco Paez, Luis; Martinez-Diaz, Inmaculada C.								Training vs. Competition in Sport: State Anxiety and Response of Stress Hormones in Young Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			103	112		10.2478/hukin-2021-0087			OCT 2021	2021	This study was aimed to assess the neuroendocrine response to stress induced by different sports environments (a regular training session and a competitive event), to define the contribution of psychological and physical stress, and to check the possible relationship between state-anxiety and stress hormones responses to competitive and noncompetitive sports practices. Twelve young national-level male swimmers participated in this investigation. Endorphins, adrenocorticotropin, and prolactin plasma levels were measured at baseline conditions (t0), before a regular swimming training session (t1), and before and after real swimming competition consisting of 100 m freestyle (t2 and t3, respectively). Moreover, state-anxiety was evaluated in all assessment time-points. The results showed no differences in endorphin, adrenocorticotropin, prolactin and state-anxiety between t0 and t1; however, significant increases in endorphins (142%), prolactin (137%) and state-anxiety (13%) were observed in t2. Huge stress response was observed in t3 (increases of 354%, 387%, and 250% for endorphins, adrenocorticotropin, and prolactin, respectively) although state-anxiety decreased slightly. Lastly, a lack of the relationship between stress hormones and state-anxiety was found in all conditions. Mental and especially physical stress associated with sports competition induces a significant release of stress hormones which is not relevant for the regular training session.		[Carrasco Paez, Luis; Martinez-Diaz, Inmaculada C.] Univ Seville, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Pirotecnia St, E-41013 Seville, Spain; [Carrasco Paez, Luis] Univ Seville, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Pirotecnia St, E-41013 Seville, Spain								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900011	37	Article; Article		
J	Boussana, Alain; Galy, Olivier; Le Gallais, Daniel; Hue, Olivier								The Effect of an Olympic Distance Triathlon on Pulmonary Diffusing Capacity and its Recovery 24 Hours Later								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				80	1			83	92		10.2478/hukin-2021-0108			OCT 2021	2021	The Olympic distance triathlon includes maximal exercise bouts with transitions between the activities. This study investigated the effect of an Olympic distance triathlon (1.5-km swim, 40-km bike, 10-km run) on pulmonary diffusion capacity (DLco). In nine male triathletes (age: 24 +/- 4.7 years), we measured DLco and calculated the DLco to alveolar volume ratio (DLco/VA) and performed spirometry testing before a triathlon (pre-T), 2 hours after the race (post-T), and the day following the race (post-T-24 h). DLco was measured using the 9-s breath-holding method. We found that (1) DLco decreased significantly between pre- and post-T values (38.52 +/- 5.44 vs. 35.92 +/- 6.63 ml.min(-1).mmHg(-1)) (p < 0.01) and returned to baseline at post-T-24 h (38.52 +/- 5.44 vs. 37.24 +/- 6.76 ml.min(-1).mmHg(-1), p > 0.05); (2) DLco/VA was similar at the pre-, post- and post-T-24 h DLco comparisons; and (3) forced expiratory volume in the first second (FEVi) and mean forced expiratory flow during the middle half of vital capacity (FEF25-75%) significantly decreased between pre- and post-T and between pre- and post-T-24-h (p < 0.02). In conclusion, a significant reduction in DLco and DLco/VA 2 hours after the triathlon suggests the presence of pulmonary interstitial oedema. Both values returned to baseline 24 hours after the race, which reflects possible mild and transient pulmonary oedema with minimal physiological significance.		[Boussana, Alain] Univ Marien Ngouabi, Dept Higher Inst Phys & Sports Educ ISEPS, Lab EHEOHP, Brazzaville, Rep Congo; [Galy, Olivier] Univ New Caledonia, Dept Higher Sch Professorship & Educ, Lab Interdisciplinary Educ Res, EA 7483, Noumea, New Caledonia; [Le Gallais, Daniel] Univ Montpellier, Dept Sci & Tech Phys & Sports Act, Lab Sport Performance Hlth, Montpellier, France; [Boussana, Alain; Hue, Olivier] Univ Antilles Guyane, Dept Sci & Tech Phys & Sports Act, Lab ACTES, Pointe A Pitre, Guadeloupe, France; [Boussana, Alain] Univ Marien Ngouabi, Dept Higher Inst Phys & Sports Educ ISEPS, Lab EHEOHP, Brazzaville, Rep Congo; [Boussana, Alain] Univ Marien Ngouabi, Lab Educ Hlth Expertise & Optimizat Human Perform, Higher Inst Phys & Sports Educ ISEPS, BP 1100, Brazzaville, Rep Congo								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000721170900009	30	Article; Article		
J	Branquinho, Luis; Ferraz, Ricardo; Marques, Mario C.								5-a-Side Game as a Tool for the Coach in Soccer Training								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	5			96	108		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000629			OCT 2021	2021	Physical outputs in soccer training can be influenced by the interaction of several variables during the performance of different small side games (SSGs) formats. For this reason, it is relevant to understand how the manipulation of variables such as training method, exercise duration, number of repetitions, or recovery time affect the training loads and the performance. The main aim of this work was to provide coaches with relevant theoretical aspects and examples of practical applications to use from the specific format of 5-a-side SSG. To search for relevant publications and ensure the quality of articles, the search strategy used comprised specific search terms based on the research theme. The results showed that, during the 5-a-side game format, the choice of the training method (i.e., continuous or fractionated) and the manipulation of the related variables (e.g., number of players and game format) are fundamental for the management of the training load. Therefore, the manipulation of the variables using 5-a-side format translates into significant variations in the training load, and in the likely improvement of the different domains of soccer training (physiological, technical, and tactical), thus evidencing several benefits in the use of this game format. In addition, practical examples of 5-a-side exercises are used based on the theoretical considerations described.		[Branquinho, Luis; Ferraz, Ricardo; Marques, Mario C.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Ferraz, Ricardo; Marques, Mario C.] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal; [Marques, Mario C.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Marques, Mario C.] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711754200009	78	Article; Article		
J	Scroggs, Karis; Simonson, Shawn R.								Writing a Needs Analysis: Exploring the Details								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	5			87	95		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000628			OCT 2021	2021	The first step in preparing a comprehensive periodized strength and conditioning program is the needs analysis-that is a formal process for determining the general and specific needs of the athlete based on their sport or task. It involves many more pieces than most consider and is not simply about goal setting. Depth and specificity of event requirements and details are important because there will be variability in needs and program design due to the task and level of prior experience and participation. The specifics of the task and the particulars of the individual athlete may lead to the need for significant study and reading of evidence-based research. The benefit of a well-developed needs analysis is that it can lead to better program planning with greater opportunity for success.		[Scroggs, Karis; Simonson, Shawn R.] Boise State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Boise, ID 83725 USA; [Simonson, Shawn R.] Boise State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Boise, ID 83725 USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711754200008	42	Article; Article		
J	Harry, John R.								MATLAB Guide for Analyzing Countermovement Jump Strategies and Performance Over Time								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	5			44	53		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000624			OCT 2021	2021	Valid and reliable countermovement vertical jump (CMJ) assessments using force platforms can require complex data analysis processes not typically explored during strength and conditioning professionals' training. Although commercially available software programs with focused functionality for force platform-based CMJ analyses have become accessible to help simplify the process, such programs require costly annual subscriptions and can promote reliance on the "black box" for analysis. The purpose of this report was to provide a guide and template aimed to help strength and conditioning professionals create data analysis programs using MATLAB to monitor CMJ performance and performance changes across multiple testing sessions. The guide focuses on programming strategies to import multiple CMJ trials, treat data (i.e., filtering), calculate performance and strategy variables, and create graphics documenting an athlete's performance changes over time. The provided example script can be used as standalone analysis program for the CMJ, to help coaches learn basic script-writing strategies to create their own analysis programs for the CMJ and other performance tests, or both. Ultimately, strength and conditioning professionals should seek to have ownership of their data and analysis processes, and this guide can help coaches start or continue that process.		[Harry, John R.] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Human Performance & Biomech Lab, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Harry, John R.] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Human Performance & Biomech Lab, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711754200004	29	Article; Article		
J	Rodriguez, Juan; Hanney, William J.; Kolber, Morey J.; Cheatham, Scott								Utility of Back-Off Sets: An Overview								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	5			65	76		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000623			OCT 2021	2021	Back-off sets or down sets are a training paradigm that use an initial heavy loaded set followed by a subsequent rest period and a planned load reduction. Back-off sets are a way to maintain or increase training volume through a load reduction for subsequent sets. By reducing load, a desired number of repetitions can be achieved as opposed to a reduction in volume that would occur if a consistent load was maintained. Back-off sets have been shown to allow completion of a greater training volume which may be in part due to a potentiation effect. The use of back-off sets help to reduce the necessary length of interset rest periods. Back-off set utility may be influenced by factors including but not limited to training goals, training age, exercise type, protocol individualization, loading strategy, load-reduction strategy, and autoregulation. This discussion aims to provide an overview of the integration of back-off sets within resistance training programs by examining previous research and providing a synopsis of the variables that impact the efficacy of this strategy.		[Rodriguez, Juan; Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Cheatham, Scott] Calif State Univ Dominguez Hills, Div Kinesiol, Carson, CA 90747 USA; [Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711754200006	45	Article; Article		
J	Armstrong, William Jeffrey; Dayal, Nishu N.; Braun, William A.								Beyond COVID-19: Preparing Fitness Centers for the Next Pandemic								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	5			36	43		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000626			OCT 2021	2021	The 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has caused governments to institute measures to curb the spread of the virus. Among these were restrictions that affect the daily operations of public gymnasiums, personal training centers, therapy clinics, strength and conditioning facilities, and the like. As the world has seen widespread public health crises with 3 beta-coronaviruses, as well as highly contagious strains of type A influenza (H5N1 and H1N1), in the past 2 decades, operators of fitness facilities are challenged to consider how daily operations will be affected in the wake of COVID-19. This article examines strategies to mitigate the transmission of the virus in fitness facilities, including temperature scanning, physical distancing, masks, hand hygiene, and the disinfection of large spaces and common touch surfaces. Fitness facilities and therapy centers face complex challenges in minimizing the risk of viral transmission due to space limitations and the use of common equipment and spaces by clients. Despite these challenges, the developing science resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic has led to insights that should drive policies to help ensure fitness facilities successfully adapt to the risks presented by these infectious agents.		[Armstrong, William Jeffrey; Dayal, Nishu N.] Western Oregon Univ, Div Hlth & Exercise Sci, Exercise Sci, Monmouth, OR 97361 USA; [Braun, William A.] Shippensburg Univ, Exercise Sci Dept, Shippensburg, PA 17257 USA; [Armstrong, William Jeffrey] Western Oregon Univ, Div Hlth & Exercise Sci, Exercise Sci, Monmouth, OR 97361 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711754200003	51	Article; Article		
J	Laakso, Lassi A.								Optimizing Verbal Communication in the Instruction of Weightlifting to Weightlifting Naive Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	5			109	115		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000636			OCT 2021	2021	Motor learning theories should be used by coaches to optimally apply their technical knowledge of weightlifting. The OPTIMAL (Optimizing Performance Through Intrinsic Motivation and Attention for Learning) theory of motor learning highlights the importance of motivation and attention in the motor learning process, with enhanced expectancies and autonomy underpinning the athlete's motivation and an external focus of attention optimizing the athlete's attention. Better results are obtained by collaborating with athletes in an athlete-centered approach, giving them a sense of control and ownership of their learning process and making them feel able to succeed in the learning process. The success resulting from the right balance between the athlete's confidence and task difficulty leads to an increase in the athlete's self-efficacy, further improving the learning process. When instructing weightlifting, coaches should say as much as necessary, but as little as possible, while using an implicit coaching strategy that focuses on the task goal. Instructions and cues should have an external focus of attention, relative to the athlete's body, or use analogies to provide a clear task goal while using simple language associated with familiar motor skills.		[Laakso, Lassi A.] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Laakso, Lassi A.] Hockey Club Lugano, Lugano, Switzerland; [Laakso, Lassi A.] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Laakso, Lassi A.] Hockey Club Lugano, Lugano, Switzerland								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711754200010	70	Article; Article		
J	Zeng, Nan; Liu, Wenxi; Pope, Zachary C.; McDonough, Daniel J.; Gao, Zan								Acute Effects of Virtual Reality Exercise Biking on College Students' Physical Responses								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			633	639		10.1080/02701367.2021.1891188			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Current evidence regarding the use of commercially available immersive virtual reality (VR) headsets and compatible VR exercise apparatus in the promotion of individuals' physical activity (PA) is lacking. This exploratory study investigated the acute effects of a VirZoom VR exercise bike (vBike) on college students' physical responses compared to an exergaming bike (eBike) and a traditional stationary exercise bike (tBike). Method: Forty-eight college students (34 females, X-age = 23.58 +/- 3.39; X-BMI = 23.81 +/- 3.57) completed three separate 20-minute cycling sessions on the vBike, eBike, and tBike in a counterbalanced order. Outcomes included rating of perceived exertion (RPE), assessed at 4-minute intervals throughout each cycling session, and overall PA, operationalized as pedal revolution counts (PRC) during each session. Results: Linear models indicated significant group differences between exercise modalities for RPE (F (2,138) = 14.76-27.30, all p < .001, eta(2 )= 0.17-0.27) and PRC (F (2,138) = 74.862, p < .001, eta(2) = 0.48). Pairwise comparisons revealed that RPE was reported significantly higher at each time point (i.e., 4th minute, 8th minute, 12th minute, 16th minute, and 20th minute) during the tBike session vs. the vBike and eBike sessions (p < .001) and that participants had higher PRC during the vBike session vs. the eBike and tBike sessions (p < .001). Conclusion: A commercially available VR exercise bike would trigger greater overall PA as compared to exergaming and traditional cycling while being perceived less intense. Future intervention studies conducted in real-world settings to determine cause and effect relationship are warranted.		[Zeng, Nan] Univ New Mexico, Hlth Sci Ctr, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA; [Liu, Wenxi; McDonough, Daniel J.; Gao, Zan] Univ Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Pope, Zachary C.] Mayo Clin, Well Living Lab, Rochester, MN USA; [Zeng, Nan] Univ New Mexico, Hlth Sci Ctr, Prevent Res Ctr, 2703 Frontier Ave NE Res Incubator Bldg RIB, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA; [Gao, Zan] Univ Minnesota, Sch Kinesiol, 207 Cooke Hall,1900 Univ Ave SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000708747400001	29	Article; Article		
J	Curtis, C.; Arjomandkhah, N.; Cooke, C.; Ranchordas, M. K.; Russell, M.								Season-long Changes in the Body Composition Profiles of Competitive Female Rugby Union Players Assessed via Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			601	607		10.1080/02701367.2021.1886226			JUL 3 2022	2022	Background: Reference data for the body composition values of female athletes are limited to very few sports, with female Rugby Union players having mostly been omitted from such analyses.Methods: Using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans, this study assessed the body composition profiles (body mass, bone mineral content; BMC, fat mass; FM, lean mass; LM, bone mineral density; BMD) of 15 competitive female Rugby Union players before and after the 2018/19 competitive season. Total competitive match-play minutes were also recorded for each player.Results: Body mass (73.7 +/- 9.6 kg vs 74.9 +/- 10.2 kg, p <= 0.05, d = 0.13) and BMC (3.2 +/- 0.4 kg vs 3.3 +/- 0.4 kg, p <= 0.05, d = 0.15) increased pre- to post-season for all players. Conversely, FM (21.0 +/- 8.8 kg), LM (50.7 +/- 3.9 kg), and BMD (1.31 +/- 0.06 g center dot cm(-2)) were similar between time-points (all p > .05). Accounting for position, body mass (r(partial(12)) = 0.196), FM (r(partial(12)) = -0.013), LM (r(partial(12)) = 0.351), BMD (r(partial(12)) = 0.168) and BMC (r(partial(12)) = -0.204) showed no correlation (all p > .05) against match-play minutes.Conclusion: The demands of the competitive season influenced specific body composition indices (i.e., body mass, BMC) in female Rugby Union players; a finding which was unrelated to the number of minutes played in matches. While the causes of such differences remain unclear, practitioners should be cognizant of the body composition changes occurring throughout a female Rugby Union competitive season and, where necessary, consider modifying variables associated with adaptation and recovery accordingly.		[Curtis, C.; Arjomandkhah, N.; Cooke, C.; Russell, M.] Leeds Trinity Univ, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Curtis, C.] Middlesex Univ, London, England; [Cooke, C.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Ranchordas, M. K.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Curtis, C.] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London NW4 4BT, England								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000707613600001	42	Article; Article		
J	James, Lachlan P.; Lidums, Maris; Grant, Mary; Talpey, Scott W.; Comfort, Paul; Suchomel, Timothy J.; Gastin, Paul B.; Driller, Matthew W.								Considerations in the Development of a Postgraduate Strength and Conditioning Program: Insights From Australia, the United States, the United Kingdom, and New Zealand								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	5			116	122		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000617			OCT 2021	2021	Aspiring and established strength and conditioning professionals are increasingly seeking opportunities to further their knowledge to gain a competitive advantage within the highly competitive profession. Postgraduate degree programs in the discipline are therefore becoming a popular option for academic institutions to meet the demands of the workforce and marketplace. The purpose of this article is to bring together experienced practitioners and applied academics to offer considerations for the prospective strength and conditioning postgraduate student. Furthermore, this piece can be considered by academics that are responsible for the development of such programs. Future students are encouraged to reflect on their strengths and weaknesses, current and intended career trajectory, and work-life circumstances. Students' needs and wants, industry demands, and teaching and learning processes must be well understood by academics responsible for developing these programs. Finally, factors such as coursework and research content, authentic teaching and learning tasks, professional practice, and accreditation requirements represent key considerations of a successful postgraduate strength and conditioning program.		[James, Lachlan P.; Lidums, Maris; Grant, Mary; Gastin, Paul B.; Driller, Matthew W.] La Trobe Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Talpey, Scott W.] Federat Univ Australia, Sch Sci Psychol & Sport, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Comfort, Paul; Suchomel, Timothy J.] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, Lancs, England; [Comfort, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Exercise & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Comfort, Paul] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [James, Lachlan P.] La Trobe Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711754200011	26	Article; Article		
J	Channa, Nisar Ahmed; Tariq, Beenish; Samo, Altaf Hussain; Ghumro, Niaz Hussain; Qureshi, Naveed Akhtar								Predicting consumers' intentions to purchase eco-friendly athletic wear in a moderated model of individual green values and gender								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	2			410	436		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2020-0215			APR 5 2022	2022	Purpose Using three theoretical lenses - organismic integration theory (OIT), theory of values-belief-norm (VBN) and gender schema theory (GST) - this study aims to examine the effect of environmental factors (environmental attitude, environmental concerns, perceived environmental responsibility and peer influence) on consumers' intentions to purchase eco-friendly athletic wear. Design/methodology/approach A sample of n = 380 Pakistani consumers was used to test hypothesized relationships. Data were analyzed through the partial least square structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) technique using SmartPLS version 3.3.3. Findings Findings suggest that environmental attitude, environmental concerns, perceived environmental responsibility and peer influence are positively associated with green purchase behavior. The moderating effects of individual green values were found statistically significant between peer influence and green purchase behavior. The data further revealed that the effect of environmental attitude, environmental concerns, peer influence and perceived environmental responsibility on green purchase behavior varies across the gender. Originality/value This research is one of the first attempts to explore the effect of environmental motivational factors on consumers' intentions to purchase eco-friendly athletic wear using theories of OIT, VBN and GST. This study employs advanced analytical methods to perform multi-group analysis and establish the predictive relevance of the model, using PLS-SEM in sports management and marketing context.		[Channa, Nisar Ahmed; Samo, Altaf Hussain; Ghumro, Niaz Hussain; Qureshi, Naveed Akhtar] Sukkur IBA Univ, Dept Business Adm, Sukkur, Pakistan; Sch Business Stud, Inst Business Adm, Dept Mkt, Karachi, Pakistan; [Channa, Nisar Ahmed] Sukkur IBA Univ, Dept Business Adm, Sukkur, Pakistan								44							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000704049700001	132	Article; Article		
J	Mao, Luke L.								Retail quality, market environment and business survival in the retail Apocalypse: an investigation of the sporting goods retail industry								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	3			547	571		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2021-0115			JUN 28 2022	2022	Purpose In the era of the retail Apocalypse, the surge of e-commerce has transmuted the competitive landscape for many traditional retailers that heavily rely on brick-and-mortar stores. This study examines the relationship among retail quality, market environment and businesses' survival in the context of the sporting goods retail industry. Design/methodology/approach Based on a data set from yelp.com, the authors examine the survival of 1,360 stores within 306 zip codes in the United States using mixed effects logistic modeling. Findings (1) Retail quality is positively related to survival, but the relationship is nonlinear; (2) the author find a null relationship between market competition and survival, which is subject to several competing interpretations; (3) 10% of the individual variation in survival is due to systematic differences between zip codes and (4) chain stores and stores with more heterogenous reviews have a higher closure rate. Originality/value This study contributes to the literature by offering an empirical testing of the relationship between retail quality and business survival and examining the impact of trading area in the modern marketing milieu. The findings have practical implications for site selection and designing a service quality program.		[Mao, Luke L.] Univ New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM USA; [Mao, Luke L.] Univ New Mexico, Dept Hlth Exercise & Sports Sci, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000703143200001	102	Article; Article		
J	Mirehie, Mona; Cho, Inje								Exploring the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on sport tourism								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	3			527	546		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2021-0081			JUN 28 2022	2022	Purpose The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic and consequent economic shutdown have had severe impacts on the tourism industry. Acquiring an understanding of the impacts and ongoing response procedures is crucial to recovery planning. The purpose of this study is to explore the management procedures undertaken by sport tourism stakeholders during the COVID-19 pandemic in Indiana, USA, a state that relies heavily on sport tourism for its economic vibrancy. Design/methodology/approach A constructivist grounded theory approach was adopted. In-depth semi-structured interviews were conducted with 14 high-rank managers in sport tourism organizations. Findings Continued uncertainty, psychological and financial distress were found to be the main challenges. Contingency planning, adaptability and focus on doable tasks were the core elements of the strategic response plan. Resilience management, particularly social and financial, appeared to be key in the recovery process. A stronger return was predicted with technological advancements and new collaborations. Intra-destination collaboration and creative programs were found to be key in the long-term resilience of the destination. Originality/value Findings shed light on the challenges faced, response actions undertaken, and the projected future which helps to understand the stories behind decisions and proposals, identify the gaps, and plan the best possible practices. Recommendations for leveraging sports to revitalize the destinations and help businesses survive the crisis are provided that can guide sport tourism communities on their path to recovery from COVID-19.		[Mirehie, Mona] Indiana Univ Purdue Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Dept Tourism Event & Sport Management, Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA; [Cho, Inje] Univ Florida, Dept Sport Management, Coll Hlth & Human Performance, Gainesville, FL USA; [Mirehie, Mona] Indiana Univ Purdue Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Dept Tourism Event & Sport Management, Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000703235100001	54	Article; Article		
J	Talukdar, Kaushik; Harrison, Craig; McGuigan, Mike R.								The effects of strength vs. plyometric training on sprinting kinetics in post peak height velocity (PHV) female athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1751	1771		10.1080/14763141.2021.1975811			OCT 2 2024	2024	Speed is a crucial factor for overall athletic development. While researchers have shown strength and plyometric training to improve sprinting speed in some adult and youth populations, no studies have compared the effects of strength and plyometric training on sprinting speed in young females. Fifty-two young females were divided into three groups and trained for 7 weeks, twice a week; strength training (n = 16, age 13.36 +/- 0.84), plyometric training (n = 21, age 13.38 +/- 0.75) and a physical education class as a control group (n = 15, age 13.95 +/- 0.54). Participants were tested for sprinting performance and horizontal force (Fo), maximum velocity (Vmax) and maximum horizontal power (Pmax) metrics over 30 m distance, isometric strength and unilateral horizontal jump distance before and after the intervention. Both the strength and plyometric groups significantly improved all performance variables (p < 0.05). The strength group significantly improved 10 m split time (6.76%; Hedge's g = 0.65) and Fo (18.98%; g = 0.67), whereas the plyometric group significantly improved Vmax (4.91%; g = 0.50) and Pmax (7.91%; g = 0.31). The findings of this study suggest that both strength and plyometric training can improve sprinting kinetics, jumping performance and overall strength in young females.		[Talukdar, Kaushik] St Cuthberts Coll, Dept Sports, Auckland, New Zealand; [Talukdar, Kaushik; Harrison, Craig; McGuigan, Mike R.] Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Talukdar, Kaushik] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [McGuigan, Mike R.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Talukdar, Kaushik] St Cuthberts Coll, Dept Sports, Auckland, New Zealand; [Talukdar, Kaushik] Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Talukdar, Kaushik] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Auckland, New Zealand								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000698736600001	58	Article; Article		
J	Lu, Tianyi; Thorsen, Tanner; Porter, Jared M.; Weinhandl, Joshua T.; Zhang, Songning								Can changes of workrate and seat position affect frontal and sagittal plane knee biomechanics in recumbent cycling?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	4			494	509		10.1080/14763141.2021.1979090			APR 3 2023	2023	Changes in the workrate and seat position have been linked to changes in internal knee extension moment. However, there is limited research on effects of those changes on knee kinetics in recumbent bike. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of different seat positions and workrates on KAbM, knee extension moment and perceived effort during stationary recumbent cycling. Fifteen cyclists cycled on a recumbent ergometer in 6 test conditions of pedalling in far, medium and close seat positions in each of the two workrates of 60 and 100 W at the cadence of 80 RPM. A three-dimensional motion analysis system and a pair of instrumented pedals collected kinematic and kinetic data. A 3 x2 repeated measures ANOVA was used to examine the effect of seat positions and workrates on selected variables of interest. Different seat positions did not change either peak KAbM (p = 0.592) or knee extension moment (p = 0.132). Increased workrates significantly increased peak KAbM (p <0.001 and eta(2)(p) =0.794) and knee extension moment (p <0.001 and eta(2)(p) =0.722). This study showed that the far or close seat position did not increase frontal-plane or overall knee joint loading and provided evidence for prescribing recumbent bike for healthy population.		[Lu, Tianyi; Thorsen, Tanner; Porter, Jared M.; Weinhandl, Joshua T.; Zhang, Songning] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Zhang, Songning] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000698299100001	33	Article; Article		
J	Miras-Moreno, Sergio; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Rojas, F. Javier; Janicijevic, Danica; De la Cruz, Juan Carlos; Cepero, Mar; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								Inter-limb differences in unilateral countermovement jump height are not associated with the inter-limb differences in bilateral countermovement jump force production								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1783	1795		10.1080/14763141.2021.1980091			OCT 2 2024	2024	This study aimed to explore the relationship between the inter-limb differences in unilateral countermovement (CMJ) height and the inter-limb differences in bilateral CMJ force production, and to elucidate whether the self-reported preferred leg contributes more to force production than the non-preferred leg. Twenty-three senior basketball players performed in a single session eight unilateral CMJs (four with each leg) and four bilateral CMJs. Impulse, peak force, mean force were recorded during the bilateral CMJ, and jump height during the unilateral CMJ. Small correlations were observed between the inter-limb differences in unilateral CMJ height and the inter-limb asymmetries in bilateral CMJ impulse, peak force, and mean force (p >= 0.171; r <=-0.142). The self-reported preferred leg revealed a higher performance in 7 out of 23 participants (Kappa = -0.20) for the unilateral CMJ height, 7 out of 23 participants (Kappa = -0.11) for the bilateral CMJ impulse, 6 out of 23 participants (Kappa = -0.36) for the bilateral CMJ peak force, and 8 out of 23 participants (Kappa = -0.34) for the bilateral CMJ mean force. These results highlight that the asymmetries detected during bilateral CMJs cannot be extrapolated to unilateral CMJs, and that the preferred leg generally contributes less to force production than the non-preferred leg during both bilateral and unilateral CMJs.		[Miras-Moreno, Sergio; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Rojas, F. Javier; De la Cruz, Juan Carlos; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Janicijevic, Danica] Univ Belgrade, Res Ctr, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Belgrade, Serbia; [Cepero, Mar] Univ Granada, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Teaching Body Language, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Fac Educ, Concepcion, Chile; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000698264800001	37	Article; Article		
J	Andrew Naylor, Thomas; Naylor, Samuel								Distribution and risk factors for stress fractures in competitive figure skaters and association with acute fractures								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	1			45	49		10.1080/00913847.2021.1981748			JAN 2 2023	2023	Introduction Figure skating combines esthetic components with high impact, technically demanding elements requiring high volume repetitive training. The evidence base for the sport is limited, particularly regarding stress fracture injuries. This study aims to describe the prevalence and anatomical distribution of stress fracture injuries and assess for risk factors, as well as associations with acute fractures. Methods An online anonymous retrospective survey of competitive figure skaters was distributed through social media networks and e-mail for completion by skaters from all three disciplines of figure skating. Results In a sample of 164 skaters from novice to Olympic level, career prevalence of stress fractures was 24.4%, most commonly affecting tibia and ankle. There was statistically significant increased risk of stress fracture in those training >= 12 times/week (33.3% vs. 17.8%; P = 0.028) but no increased risk associated with level or gender of skater. There was a higher prevalence of acute fracture in those with a history of stress fracture (45.0% vs. 21.8%; P = 0.007). Conclusions Figure skaters are at a high risk of stress fractures, independent of the level performed at. There is a higher risk in those training more frequently and an association with additional acute fractures. Results advocate education on fracture features and bone health measures to skaters, coaches, and physicians, at all levels of the sport to facilitate early diagnosis and management.		[Andrew Naylor, Thomas] Manchester Univ NHS Fdn Trust, Trauma & Orthopaed Dept, 3 Shawbrook Ave, Manchester M21 7GW, Lancs, England; [Naylor, Samuel] Homerton Univ Hosp, Dept Anaesthet, London, England; [Andrew Naylor, Thomas] Manchester Univ NHS Fdn Trust, Trauma & Orthopaed Dept, 3 Shawbrook Ave, Manchester M21 7GW, Lancs, England								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000698285400001	27	Article; Article		
J	Roby, Patricia R.; Metzger, Kristina B.; McDonald, Catherine C.; Corwin, Daniel J.; Huber, Colin M.; Patton, Declan A.; Margulies, Susan S.; Grady, Matthew F.; Master, Christina L.; Arbogast, Kristy B.								Pre- and post-season visio-vestibular function in healthy adolescent athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	6			522	530		10.1080/00913847.2021.1980744			NOV 2 2022	2022	Objective To evaluate pre - to post-season differences in individual subtests of the Visio-Vestibular Examination (VVE) in healthy middle and high school athletes. Methods This prospective cohort study recruited participants from a private suburban United States secondary school. Participants completed a demographic questionnaire prior to the start of their season. A proxy for head impact exposure was estimated by incorporating previously published head impact frequencies by team and sport. The VVE was completed pre - and post-season and consisted of 9 subtests: smooth pursuit, horizontal/vertical saccades and gaze stability, binocular convergence, left/right monocular accommodation, and complex tandem gait. Generalized estimating equations were employed to assess the relative risk of an abnormal VVE outcome based on testing session (pre - vs. post-season). Results Participants included middle and high school athletes (n = 115; female = 59 (51.3%); median age at first assessment = 14.9 years, [IQR = 13.6, 16.0]) during 2017/18 - 2019/20 school years. During pre-season testing, accommodation (10.0%) and complex tandem gait (9.2%) had the largest proportion of abnormal outcomes, while smooth pursuits (10.6%) and convergence (9.5%) had the largest proportion of abnormal outcomes post-season. When assessing the effect of testing session on the relative risk of any abnormal VVE subtest, there were no significant findings (P >= 0.25). Additionally, there were no significant effects of testing session when adjusting for estimated head impact exposure for any VVE subtest (P >= 0.25). Conclusions Visio-vestibular function as measured by the VVE does not change from pre - to post-season in otherwise healthy adolescent athletes. Our findings suggest that the VVE may be stable and robust to typical neurodevelopment occurring in this dynamic age group and help inform post-injury interpretation of visio-vestibular impairments.		[Roby, Patricia R.; Metzger, Kristina B.; McDonald, Catherine C.; Corwin, Daniel J.; Huber, Colin M.; Patton, Declan A.; Master, Christina L.; Arbogast, Kristy B.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Ctr Injury Res & Prevent, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [McDonald, Catherine C.; Corwin, Daniel J.; Grady, Matthew F.; Master, Christina L.; Arbogast, Kristy B.] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [McDonald, Catherine C.] Univ Penn, Sch Nursing, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Corwin, Daniel J.; Arbogast, Kristy B.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Div Emergency Med, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Huber, Colin M.] Univ Penn, Dept Bioengn, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Margulies, Susan S.] Georgia Inst Technol, Dept Biomed Engn, Atlanta, GA 30332 USA; [Margulies, Susan S.] Emory Univ, Atlanta, GA 30322 USA; [Grady, Matthew F.; Master, Christina L.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Sports Med Performance Ctr, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Arbogast, Kristy B.] Roberts Pediat Res Bldg,2716 South St,Room 13471, Philadelphia, PA 19146 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000697642100001	60	Article; Article		
J	Corthouts, Joris; Zeimers, Geraldine; Helsen, Kobe; Demeulemeester, Camille; Koenecke, Thomas; Zintz, Thierry; Scheerder, Jeroen								Sport federations' organizational innovativeness: an empirical comparison of characteristics and attitudes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	5			901	919		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2021-0035			SEP 21 2022	2022	Purpose Being innovative is important for non-profit sport organizations in order to meet the ever-changing and increasing societal needs. Understanding why and to what extent organizational innovativeness differs between non-profit sport organizations is, therefore, important to assess and increase their chances of survival. The purpose of this study is to compare the structural characteristics and attitudes of innovation attributes between three groups of sport federations (SFs). Design/methodology/approach An online self-assessment survey was sent to all recognized regional Belgian SFs (N = 156). Simultaneously, an observational desk research (i.e. media analysis) was carried out. Results from both data collection methods were combined to develop a composite organizational innovativeness-index, based on which the federations were then clustered in three distinct adopter groups. Findings Comparative statistics show that structural background characteristics generally are poor indicators for adopter categorization. In contrast, the attitudes about compatibility (i.e. the consistency of innovations with existing values) and complexity (i.e. the extent to which innovations are difficult to apprehend) seem the most important distinctive determinants for the different groups of SFs. Originality/value The study's contribution is twofold. First, it offers a methodological contribution with the development of an index, which enables the categorization of non-profit sport organizations according to their organizational innovativeness; thus, it provides a critical counter-argument to the importance of organizational structural background characteristics from previous studies. Second, the study's results may support non-profit sport organizations in improving their innovativeness, for instance by improving the perception of compatibility with innovation or by guiding policymakers in creating a more supportive environment for these organizations to do so.		[Corthouts, Joris; Helsen, Kobe; Koenecke, Thomas; Scheerder, Jeroen] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Movement & Rehabil Sci, Policy Sports & Phys Act Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [Zeimers, Geraldine; Demeulemeester, Camille; Zintz, Thierry] UC Louvain, Fac Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, Louvain Res Inst Management & Org, Louvain, Belgium; [Corthouts, Joris] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Movement & Rehabil Sci, Policy Sports & Phys Act Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000697732400001	51	Article; Article		
J	Costley, Jill A. E.; Miles, Joshua J.; King, Enda; Daniels, Katherine A. J.								Vertical jump impulse deficits persist from six to nine months after ACL reconstruction								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	1			123	141		10.1080/14763141.2021.1945137			JAN 2 2023	2023	Later-stage rehabilitation following anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction (ACLR) provides a valuable opportunity to target performance deficits before return to sport. This study aimed to: (1) evaluate bilateral counter-movement jump (CMJ) phase-specific impulse and isokinetic strength inter-limb asymmetry progression from 6 to 9 months post-ACLR; and (2) examine the extent to which individual changes in strength asymmetry could explain changes in impulse asymmetry. Male athletes (n = 44) with a hamstring tendon or bone-patellar tendon-bone autograft were tested 6 and 9 months post-ACLR. Two-way mixed-model ANOVAs were used to identify inter-session and inter-graft differences in CMJ phase-specific impulse asymmetries and knee isokinetic flexor and extensor strength asymmetries, as well as in absolute impulse and strength values of independent (ACLR/uninvolved) limbs. Linear regression models were used to assess the relationship between changes in impulse asymmetry and strength asymmetry. Reductions in strength asymmetry arose from improved ACLR-limb performance, whereas concentric impulse asymmetry reduced consequent to decreased uninvolved-limb performance and eccentric deceleration impulses decreased bilaterally. Graft type did not modulate findings. Changes in strength asymmetry had little or no ability to explain changes in impulse asymmetry. Consideration of approaches that may influence persisting deficits observed bi-laterally throughout vertical jumping performance post-ACLR may enhance rehabilitation practice.		[Costley, Jill A. E.; Miles, Joshua J.; King, Enda; Daniels, Katherine A. J.] Sports Surg Clin, Sports Med Res Dept, Dublin, Ireland; [Miles, Joshua J.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [King, Enda] Roehampton Univ, Dept Life Sci, London, England; [Daniels, Katherine A. J.] Univ Bristol, Queens Sch Engn, Bristol, Avon, England; [Daniels, Katherine A. J.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Costley, Jill A. E.] Sports Surg Clin, Sports Med Res Dept, Dublin, Ireland								21							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000698214100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Loh, Suan K.; Lim, Jolene Z.; Pan, Jing Wen; Aziz, Luqman; Lee, Marcus; Kong, Pui W.								Air pistol shooting: upper limb muscle activation between training and simulated competition								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1772	1782		10.1080/14763141.2021.1975812			OCT 2 2024	2024	Heightened stress during air pistol competitions may impair shooters' abilities to maintain gun stability, resulting in inferior performance. This study aimed to compare the pre-trigger muscle activation levels of upper muscles in 10-m air pistol shooters between training and simulated competition conditions. Seven sub-elite shooters from the Singapore National Youth Air Pistol Team shot 30 shots in a training versus simulated competition condition in randomised orders on separate days. Muscle activation for the forearm and shoulder muscles, namely extensor carpi radialis, flexor carpi ulnaris, anterior deltoid, and posterior deltoid, were recorded using electromyography (EMG). Shooting performance was evaluated by total shot scores. Stress level was monitored via heart rate and the Mental Readiness Form-3. No statistically significant differences were found in EMG, performance, or stress-related variables between conditions, although moderate-to-large effect sizes were observed in some muscle activation and self-reported stress indicators. Analysis of individual performances using smallest worthwhile change showed that two participants improved under the simulated competition condition, while two declined, and three remained unaffected. In conclusion, sub-elite youth air pistol shooters were able to exhibit good neuromuscular control under high anxiety situations and thus their performance was largely unaffected.		[Loh, Suan K.; Lim, Jolene Z.; Pan, Jing Wen; Kong, Pui W.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [Aziz, Luqman] Sport Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; [Lee, Marcus] Singapore Sports Inst, Sports Biomech, Singapore, Singapore; [Kong, Pui W.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000697425200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Steinberg, Nili; Pantanowitz, Michal; Zeev, Aviva; Band, Shani Svorai; Funk, Shany; Nemet, Dan								Achilles and patellar tendon structure following a prevention program in male combat soldiers								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	6			531	540		10.1080/00913847.2021.1976601			NOV 2 2022	2022	Objectives The aims of the study were to compare the prevalence of soldiers with musculoskeletal symptoms between soldiers that participated in a prevention program (INT) and a control group (CONT); and, to assess whether 'high risk' for a symptom indicator [participants with patellar tendon (PT) echo-type III+IV >10% or Achilles tendon (AT) echo-type III >8.5%] applies when a prevention intervention is used. Methods Soldiers from two consecutive infantry commanders courses (year 1-CONT, n = 165; year 2-INT, n = 196) were examined pre-course for AT and PT structure using ultrasound tissue characterization (UTC), and their musculoskeletal overuse symptoms were assessed and recorded by military physicians throughout the course. A prevention program was provided to the INT group (year 2) during the 14-week course. Results No significant differences were found in the prevalence of soldiers with symptoms between the two groups [INT: 39 (19.9%), CONT: 40 (24.2%); p = .32]. Using the indicator at baseline, 20 soldiers (10.2%) were suggested to be at 'high risk.' Of those 20 soldiers, 17 actually had symptoms during the course (positive predictive value-85%). The prevalence of soldiers with a suggested 'high risk' according to our indicator who had no symptoms during the course was low (3/20, 15%). Twenty-two soldiers who had symptoms during the course had not been suggested to be at 'high risk' by our indicator. Conclusion Our intervention did not reduce the prevalence of soldiers with symptoms. Our 'high risk' pre-course, AT and PT structure indicator is valid and can be used as a screening tool to reduce the prevalence of symptoms in combat soldiers; with the caution that soldiers that were not identified by the indicator, might also have symptoms along the course.		[Steinberg, Nili; Pantanowitz, Michal; Zeev, Aviva] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Wingate Coll Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Life Sci, Netanya, Israel; [Band, Shani Svorai] Mil Med Corps, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Funk, Shany] Combat Fitness Dept, Doctrine & Res Branch, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Nemet, Dan] Tel Aviv Univ, Child Hlth & Sport Ctr, Meir Med Ctr, Sackler Sch Med,Pediat Dept, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Steinberg, Nili] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Wingate Coll Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Netanya, Israel								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000697424500001	52	Article; Article		
J	Mannino, Brian J.; Yedikian, Teren; Mojica, Edward Stephen; Bi, Andrew; Alaia, Michael; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem								The COVID lockdown and its effects on soft tissue injuries in Premier League Athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	1			40	44		10.1080/00913847.2021.1980746			JAN 2 2023	2023	Background During the COVID impacted 2020-2021 season of the English soccer league, there was an appreciable number of injuries experienced by players. These injuries, however, have not been quantified against previous seasons to highlight the altered season as a causative factor. Methods A review of an online database was conducted to search for injuries to football players in the Premier League across three seasons; 2018-2019, 2019-2020, and 2020-2021, to compare for difference in injury rates across the years and assess for higher rates in this current season, where athletes have had less play time due to COVID-19. Injury number and injury characteristics were abstracted from the online database Transfermarkt, with the provided information allowing for the sorting of the data into muscular and ligamentous injuries and skeletal injuries. Results Overall 226, 260, and 289 muscular and ligamentous injuries were observed across the 2018/2019, 2019/2020, and 2020/2021 seasons, respectively. There were 495 minutes on average played leading up to first injury in the 2020/2021 season, compared with 521 minutes in the 2019/2020 season and 536 minutes in the 2018/2019. There was an average of games played to injury of 5.6 games in the 2020/2021 year, with 6.0 in the 2019/2020 year and 6.1 in the 2018/2019 year. Additionally, there was a significantly shorter time in between games was noted during the COVID-affected season with a mean time of 6.8 days in-between games played during the 2020-2021 season as compared to the previous years of 9.12 and 7.12 days. Conclusion Our study found that there were more injuries and a decreased time to first injury observed during the COVID-impacted 2020-2021 season than the two preceding seasons, perhaps demonstrating a link between fixture congestion and athlete injuries as evidenced by the significantly shorter time between games. It is therefore prudent to retain fixture spacing for athlete recovery even against the backdrop of an overall shortened season.		[Mannino, Brian J.; Yedikian, Teren; Mojica, Edward Stephen; Bi, Andrew; Alaia, Michael; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem] New York Univ Langone Hlth, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY 10016 USA; [Mojica, Edward Stephen] New York Univ Langone Hlth, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY 10016 USA								27							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000698242900001	20	Article; Article		
J	Miller, Paul; Brinkmann, Daniel J.; Ramsenthaler, Christina; Gollhofer, Albert; Gehring, Dominic								Mind your step: predicting maximum ankle inversion during cutting movements in soccer								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	11			1948	1962		10.1080/14763141.2021.1974533			NOV 1 2024	2024	The objective of this investigation was to identify parameters at initial contact that would predict the subsequent maximum ankle inversion angle during cutting movements. We conducted a secondary data analysis and calculated kinematics of 1,400 cuttings performed by 46 male soccer athletes. The movement task consisted of an approach run, followed by a pre-planned cutting movement. A linear mixed regression model was applied to predict the maximum ankle inversion angle during the first 100 ms of ground contact. The prediction was made based on six predictors that describe change-of-direction intensity and foot placement as found to be relevant in the literature. The model explained 62% of the variance of maximum ankle inversion angles. A change of the main predictors (foot rotation, cutting angle and initial ankle inversion) by 1 SD caused a reduction of the subsequent maximum ankle inversion angle by 2.6-4.4 degrees. Regarding the intensity of a change-of-direction movement, cutting angle seems to have a higher influence on maximum ankle inversion angle than approach velocity. With respect to the individual foot positioning, the maximum ankle inversion angle can be reduced by increasing exorotation and eversion of the foot while shifting towards forefoot landing.		[Miller, Paul; Brinkmann, Daniel J.; Ramsenthaler, Christina; Gollhofer, Albert; Gehring, Dominic] Univ Freiburg, Dept Sport & Sports Sci, Freiburg, Germany; [Miller, Paul] Univ Freiburg, Dept Sport & Sports Sci, Freiburg, Germany								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000695901200001	47	Article; Article		
J	Koldenhoven, Rachel M.; Hart, Joseph; Abel, Mark F.; Saliba, Susan; Hertel, Jay								Running gait biomechanics in females with chronic ankle instability and ankle sprain copers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	4			447	459		10.1080/14763141.2021.1977378			APR 21 2022	2022	Limited evidence exists comparing running biomechanics between individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI) and those who fully recover (copers). The purpose of this study was to simultaneously analyse running gait kinematics, kinetics, and surface electromyography (sEMG) between ankle sprain copers and individuals with CAI. Twenty-six (13 CAI, 13 Coper) recreationally active females participated and ran shod on an instrumented treadmill at 2.68 m/s. We assessed lower extremity kinematics and kinetics and sEMG amplitude for the fibularis longus, tibialis anterior, medial gastrocnemius, and gluteus medius muscles. Ten consecutive strides from the beginning of the trial were analysed using statistical parametric mapping (SPM) independent t-test. The CAI group had significantly more ankle inversion during 0-6%, 42-53%, and 96-100% of the running stride cycle compared to the coper group. At initial contact (0%), the CAI group was in an inverted ankle position (5.9 degrees +/- 6.8 degrees) and the coper group was in an everted ankle position (-3.2 degrees +/- 5.5 degrees; p = 0.01, d = 1.5). There were no significant differences identified for any other outcome measures. Increased ankle inversion during the swing phase leading into the loading phase is concerning because the ankle is in an open packed position and inversion is a primary mechanism of injury for sustaining a lateral ankle sprain.		[Koldenhoven, Rachel M.] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Hart, Joseph; Saliba, Susan; Hertel, Jay] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Abel, Mark F.] Univ Virginia, Dept Orthoped Surg, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Koldenhoven, Rachel M.] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								17							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000695440000001	42	Article; Article		
J	Tramer, Joseph S.; Jildeh, Toufic R.; Castle, Joshua P.; Buckley, Patrick; Nowak, Caden; Okoroha, Kelechi R.								The impact of nonoperative hip and core injuries on National Football League athlete performance								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				51	1			27	32		10.1080/00913847.2021.1976603			JAN 2 2023	2023	Objectives Hip and core injuries are common in National Football League (NFL) athletes; however, the impact following injury remains unclear. The goal of this manuscript was to determine the impact of nonoperative hip and core injuries on return to play and performance. Methods NFL athletes who sustained a hip or core injury treated nonoperatively between 2010 and 2016 were identified. Offensive and defensive power ratings were calculated for each player's injury season and two seasons before and after to assess longitudinal impact. A matched control group without an identified hip and/or core injury was assembled for comparison. Results A total of 41 offensive and 71 defensive players with nonoperative hip or core injury were analyzed. All athletes returned to play; offensive and defensive players missed 4.0 +/- 5.2 and 3.1 +/- 2.6 games after injury, respectively. Offensive players played fewer cumulative career games returning from core injury versus hip (23.5 +/- 20.6 vs 41.0 +/- 26.4). Defensive players played fewer games (58.1 +/- 41.1 versus 37.4 +/- 27.1, p < 0.05) with lower defensive power rating (133.9 +/- 128.5 versus 219.8 +/- 212.2, p < 0.05) cumulatively after hip or core injury. Additionally, 2 years following injury, defensive players played fewer games compared to controls (9.5 +/- 7.0 versus 10.9 +/- 6.8, p < 0.05). Following hip injury specifically, NFL defenders played fewer games (39.8 +/- 27.9 vs 61.9 +/- 38.8; p < 0.05) and had a lower defensive power rating (145.9 +/- 131.7 vs 239.0 +/- 205.9; p < 0.05) compared to before injury. Conclusion Overall, NFL players return to play following nonoperative hip and core injuries. Defensive players played in fewer games following hip or core injury compared to controls; offensive players were unaffected. Hip injuries have a greater impact on performance compared to core injuries in defensive athletes; offensive players played fewer games upon return from core injury.		[Tramer, Joseph S.; Jildeh, Toufic R.; Castle, Joshua P.; Buckley, Patrick] Henry Ford Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Detroit, MI USA; [Nowak, Caden] Wayne State Univ, Sch Med, Detroit, MI USA; [Okoroha, Kelechi R.] Mayo Clin, Div Sports Med, Dept Orthoped Surg, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Tramer, Joseph S.; Buckley, Patrick] Henry Ford Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Detroit, MI USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000695073600001	28	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Yide; Yu, Cheng; Damberg, Svenja								Exploring the drivers and consequences of the "awe" emotion in outdoor sports - a study using the latest partial least squares structural equation modeling technique and necessary condition analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	2			278	294		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2020-0232			APR 5 2022	2022	Purpose Awe is an essential post-experience assessment; nevertheless, few studies have discussed its role in the field of outdoor sports or outdoor sports tourism. In this study, the authors aim to examine the effects of awe on participants' satisfaction and behavioral intention by considering the perceived vastness of the natural environment, perceived professionalism, and self-image congruity as drivers. Design/methodology/approach The authors proposed and empirically tested a research model based on a survey with 480 responses collected in China. The effect of awe is explored from the perspectives of both sufficiency logic and necessity logic by applying the combined use of partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) and necessary condition analysis (NCA). Findings The results show that the perceived vastness of the natural environment, perceived professionalism and self-image congruity are sufficient conditions for awe: these factors affect awe positively, which, in turn, positively affect satisfaction and behavioral intention. Furthermore, both the perceived vastness of the natural environment and perceived professionalism represent a necessary condition for awe. Awe acts as a necessary and sufficient condition for both participants' satisfaction and behavioral intention. Practical implications The results of this study suggest that the generation of awe can be used as a business strategy to influence outdoor sports participants' choices in practice. In addition to the unique natural environment, professional exercising and self-realization are key success factors in enhancing the positive evaluations of outdoor sports participants. Originality/value This study is a first attempt to identify the role of awe in outdoor sports activities. Methodologically, it provides a paradigm for the combined use of PLS-SEM and NCA in sports management research by identifying the necessary and sufficient effects of awe on outdoor sports participants' post-experience evaluation.		[Liu, Yide] Macau Univ Sci & Technol, Sch Business, Taipa, Macao, Peoples R China; [Yu, Cheng] Macau Univ Sci & Technol, Taipa, Macao, Peoples R China; [Yu, Cheng] Beijing Foreign Studies Univ, Foshan Grad Sch, Econ & Management Off, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Damberg, Svenja] Hamburg Univ Technol, Inst Human Resource Management & Org, Hamburg, Germany; [Damberg, Svenja] Hamburg Univ Technol, Inst Human Resource Management & Org, Hamburg, Germany								37							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000693461100001	61	Article; Article		
J	Ishige, Yusuke; Inaba, Yuki; Hakamada, Noriko; Yoshioka, Shinsuke								The Influence of Trunk Impairment Level on the Kinematic Characteristics of Alpine Sit-Skiing: A Case Study of Paralympic Medalists								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				21	3			435	445		10.52082/jssm.2022.435			SEP 2022	2022	This study aimed to examine the relationship between the trunk impairment level and the trunk kinematic characteristics during alpine sit-skiing from a classification perspective. Three Paralympic medalists in sitting classes (LW10-2, LW11, and LW12-2) participated in the present study. To simulate the racing conditions, giant slalom gates were set. To measure the kinematics of the skier and sit-ski during skiing, a motion capture method with inertial measurement units was used. The muscle activities of the trunk muscles were evaluated using electromyography. Chest lateral flexion, chest flexion, and hip flexion/extension angle during sit-skiing were reduced due to impairment. Additionally, the insufficient lateral flexion (angulation) caused a decrease in edging angle, and that the insufficient chest and hip flexion/extension caused a lower loading in the latter half of the turn through smaller vertical movement. Since edging angle and loading are key factors in ski control, the three joint motions could be measures of sport-specific activity limitation in sit-skiing classification. Between the LW10-2 and LW11 skiers, no distinct differences in trunk kinematics were found. Assuming the scaling factor of race time as a measure of skiing performance, one possible reason is that the difference in skiing performance the ferences between the LW11 and LW12-2 skiers. There were no ity, and therefore, this information appears to play a minimal role for classification.		[Ishige, Yusuke; Inaba, Yuki; Hakamada, Noriko] Japan High Performance Sport Ctr, Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Kita Ku, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka, Tokyo 1150056, Japan; [Yoshioka, Shinsuke] Univ Tokyo, Dept Life Sci, Meguro Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Ishige, Yusuke] Japan High Performance Sport Ctr, Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Kita Ku, 3-15-1 Nishigaoka, Tokyo 1150056, Japan								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000849339600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Greaves, Henrike; Comfort, Paul; Liu, Anmin; Herrington, Lee; Jones, Richard								How effective is an evidence-based exercise intervention in individuals with patellofemoral pain?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				92	101		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.013			SEP 2021	2021	Objectives: Guidelines for a comprehensive rehabilitation programme for patellofemoral pain (PFP) have been developed by international experts. The aim of this study was to analyse the effect of such a rehabilitative exercise programme on pain, function, kinesiophobia, running biomechanics, quadriceps strength and quadriceps muscle inhibition in individuals with PFP. Design: Observational study. Setting: Clinical environment. Participants: Twenty-seven participants with PFP. Main outcome measures: Symptoms [numeric pain rating scale (NPRS)and the pain subscale of the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)], function measured by using the KUJALA scale and KOOS, kinesiophobia measured by using the Tampa scale, three-dimensional biomechanical running data, quadriceps isometric, concentric and eccentric strength and arthrogenic muscle inhibition (AMI) were acquired before and after the six-week exercise programme. Results: Although pain did not significantly improve all patients were pain-free after the six-week exercise programme (NPRS: p = 0.074). Function, kinesiophobia and quadriceps AMI improved significantly after the six-week exercise programme (KUJALA: p = 0.001, KOOS: p = 0.0001, Tampa: p = 0.017, AMI: p = 0.018). Running biomechanics during stance phase did not change after the exercise intervention. Quadriceps strength was not different after the six-week exercise programme (isometric: p = 0.992, concentric: p = 0.075, eccentric: p = 0.351). Conclusion: The results of this study demonstrate that the current exercise recommendations can improve function and kinesiophobia and reduce pain and AMI in individuals with PFP. There is a need for reconsideration of the current exercise guidelines in stronger individuals with PFP. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Greaves, Henrike] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Comfort, Paul; Liu, Anmin; Herrington, Lee; Jones, Richard] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Salford, Lancs, England; [Greaves, Henrike] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Liverpool, Merseyside, England								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500014	69	Article; Article		
J	Chaari, Fatma; Rebai, Haithem; Boyas, Sebastien; Rahmani, Abderrahmane; Fendri, Thouraya; Harrabi, Mohammed A.; Sahli, Sonia								Postural balance impairment in Tunisian second division soccer players with groin pain: A case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				85	91		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.07.003			SEP 2021	2021	Objective: To compare postural balance outcomes between soccer players with and without groin pain (GP). Design: Case-control study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Fifty-four soccer players, 27 with GP (GP group: GPG) and 27 healthy ones (control group: CG). Main outcome measures: Static and dynamic postural balance were assessed with a force platform and Y-balance test (Y-BT), respectively. Hip abduction, internal rotation (IR), external rotation (ER) and total rotation (TR) of both limbs were evaluated. Results: The GPG exhibited significant higher centre of pressure values in the bipedal posture only on the foam surface in eyes opened and closed compared to controls. Besides, they had lower anterior, post-eromedial and posterolateral reach distances and composite Y-BT score on the injured limb (IL) compared to non-injured limb (NIL) and dominant-limb (DL) of the CG. Moreover, they showed lower abduction, IR, ER, and TR on the IL compared to NIL and DL. Conclusions: Dynamic unipedal postural balance disorder could be one of the limiting factors of per-formance in soccer players with non-time loss GP. Hence, postural balance data in these players could enable sport coaches and physical therapists to better understand the mechanisms contributing for performance decrease. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Chaari, Fatma; Rebai, Haithem; Fendri, Thouraya; Harrabi, Mohammed A.; Sahli, Sonia] Univ Sfax, Res Lab Educ Motric Sport & Sante, EM2S, LR19JS01,High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Sfax, Sfax, Tunisia; [Boyas, Sebastien; Rahmani, Abderrahmane] Le Mans Univ, MIP, EA 4334,Dept Sport Sci, Lab Movement Interact Performance,Fac Sci & Techn, Le Mans, France; [Chaari, Fatma] High Inst Sport & Phys Educ Sfax, Airport Rd Km 3-5,BP 384, Sfax 3000, Tunisia								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500013	48	Article; Article		
J	Patterson, Christopher S.; Dudley, Robert I.; Sorenson, Eric; Brumitt, Jason								Preseason functional tests discriminate injury risk in female collegiate volleyball players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				79	84		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.07.002			SEP 2021	2021	Objective: Preseason functional tests have been previously associated with noncontact time-loss lower extremity injuries in a variety of athletic populations. This study aimed to determine the effectiveness of one or more functional tests to discriminate injury risk in a cohort of female collegiate volleyball players in the United States. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: National Collegiate Athletic Association Division II & III, National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics female volleyball players; Participants: 130 female volleyball players (mean age: 19.31 +/- 1.1 years). Main outcome measure: Lower extremity functional test, single limb hop for distance, standing long jump, previous injury history, lower quarter Y-balance test, and limb symmetry index were measured prior to the season beginning. Noncontact time-loss lower quarter injuries were tracked during the season. Results: Athletes with suboptimal scores on the single limb hop test (<70% of height) and standing long jump (<80% of height), combined with a previous history of injury, were three times more likely to sustain an injury during the season (OR = 3.0; 95% CI: 1.09 to 8.30). Individual functional tests did not discriminate injury risk. Conclusions: A battery of preseason functional tests and injury history discriminates injury risk in female collegiate volleyball players. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Patterson, Christopher S.] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 901 E Alosta Ave, Azusa, CA 91702 USA; [Dudley, Robert I.; Sorenson, Eric] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 901 E Alosta Ave, Azusa, CA 91702 USA; [Brumitt, Jason] George Fox Univ, Coll Phys Therapy, 448 N Werth, Newberg, OR 97132 USA; [Patterson, Christopher S.] Azusa Pacific Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 901 E Alosta Ave, Azusa, CA 91702 USA								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500012	33	Article; Article		
J	Szczypinska, Marta; Samelko, Aleksandra; Guszkowska, Monika								What Predicts the Mood of Athletes Involved in Preparations for Tokyo 2020/2021 Olympic Games During the Covid-19 Pandemic? The Role of Sense of Coherence, Hope for Success and Coping Strategies								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			421	430		10.52082/jssm.2021.421			SEP 2021	2021	The aim of the study was to identify coherence, hope for success and coping strategies as predictors of mood among this year's Olympians in the context of coronavirus events. The relationships between the above variables and the mood of athletes were analysed. The study group consisted of 57 athletes - women (29) and men (28) between 18 and 39 years of age - representing various sports disciplines who were preparing for the Tokyo Olympics. The research was conducted in the period of April 7-28, 2020 during the first threat of COVID-19 pandemic, following the decision to move the Summer Olympics to the year 2021. It was time of the greatest national restrictions and information about the postponement of the games had been received. As a result of the step regression analysis, three predictors of vigour were established: sense of meaningfulness, coping with stress through positive reframing, and not using the self-blaming strategy. A positive predictor of anger was the use of substances. Confusion was predicted based on the frequency of behavioral disengagement. Behavioral disengagement predicted the severity of depression. Predictors of fatigue were the sense of meaningfulness, and the strategies of positive reframing and self-blaming. The results obtained emphasize the importance of positive reframing as a factor contributing to maintaining a positive mood state. In contrast, behavioral disengagement and self-blaming were strategies that lowered the mood of elite athletes. The results confirm the importance of factors included in the salutogenic model (sense of coherence, coping strategies) as predictors of athletes' mood during a pandemic.		[Szczypinska, Marta; Samelko, Aleksandra; Guszkowska, Monika] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Szczypinska, Marta] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700005	83	Article; Article		
J	Chang, Wei-Gang; Lin, Kuan-Yu; Chu, Mu-Yen; Chow, Tong-Hsien								Differences in Pivot Leg Kinematics and Electromyography Activation in Various Round House Kicking Heights								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			457	465		10.52082/jssm.2021.457			SEP 2021	2021	The round house kick (RHK) is a common technique in taekwondo (TKD). The kicking action originates from the dynamic stability of the pivot leg. However, some knee injuries are caused by more difficult kicking strategies, such as kicks to the opponent's head. This study analyses the effects on TKD players in the lower extremity kinematic and neuromuscular reactions fr om different kicking heights. This study recruited 12 TKD players (age=20.3 +/- 1.3 years, height = 1.72 +/- 0.09 m, mass = 62.17 +/- 9.45 kg) with no previous lower extremity ligament injuries. All athletes randomly performed 3 RHK at different heights (head, chest, and abdomen), repeating each kick 5 times. During the RHK action, the kinematics and muscle activations of the pivot leg were collected using six high-speed cameras and electromyography devices. The results found that during the RHK return period a high kicking position demonstrated larger knee valgus with the straight knee, and more hamstring activation on the pivot leg. The RHK pivot foot for TKD players encountered more risk of injury from high target kicking. The hamstring muscle played an important stabilizing role. It is recommended that sports medicine clinicians or sports coaches use this information to provide further protective injury prevention strategies.		[Chang, Wei-Gang; Lin, Kuan-Yu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Athlet Training & Hlth, 250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan 33301, Taiwan; [Chu, Mu-Yen] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Sports Training Sci Combats, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Chow, Tong-Hsien] St Johns Univ, Dept Leisure Sports & Hlth Management, New Taipei, Taiwan; [Chang, Wei-Gang] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Athlet Training & Hlth, 250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan 33301, Taiwan								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700009	41	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Kuo-Cheng; Wang, Jong-Shyan; Hsu, Chien-Ya; Liu, Chia-Hao; Chen, Carl Pc; Huang, Shu-Chun								Low-Frequency Vibration Facilitates Post-Exercise Cardiovascular Autonomic Recovery								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			431	437		10.52082/jssm.2021.431			SEP 2021	2021	It is important to use short breaks to accelerate post-exercise recovery in sports. Previous studies have revealed that vibration can reduce post-exercise muscle soreness. However, there is still high heterogeneity in the effects of vibration on cardiovascular autonomic activities, and most studies to date have focused on high-frequency vibration. This study aimed to investigate the effect of low-frequency lower-body vibration (LBV) on post-exercise changes in heart rate variability and peripheral arterial tone. Ten men and 9 women aged 20 to 25 were recruited for this study. Each subject visited the testing room three times with at least 2 days in between. Each time, the subject received one of the three different vibration frequencies (0, 5, and 15 Hz) in a random order in the sitting position for 10 minutes. LBV was performed immediately after a static standing (control) test and 3-min-step test. Heart rate variability and digital volume pulse wave were recorded during the vibration phase (V1: vibration 0-5 minutes; V2: 6-10 minutes) and the recovery phase (Rc1: recovery phase 11-15 minutes; Rc2: 16-20 minutes). The result of digital pulse wave analysis showed that the reflection index (RI) under 15 Hz decreased during V1. Heart rate of the 15-Hz group also decreased during Rc1 and Rc2. According to the analysis of heart rate variability, low-frequency power/high-frequency power (LF/HF) decreased and normalized high-frequency power (nHF) increased during V2, Rc1 and Rc2 under 15 Hz and, during Rc2 under 5 Hz vibration. This study confirmed that the application of low-frequency LBV after exercise can reduce peripheral vascular tone, accelerate heart rate recovery, decrease cardiac sympathetic nerve activity, and promote parasympathetic nerve activity. The effect was more pronounced at 15 Hz than at 5 Hz. The findings provide a method to accelerate cardiovascular autonomic recovery after exercise.		[Liu, Kuo-Cheng; Hsu, Chien-Ya; Chen, Carl Pc; Huang, Shu-Chun] Chang Gung Mem Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Linkou, Taiwan; [Wang, Jong-Shyan] Chang Gung Mem Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Keelung, Taiwan; [Wang, Jong-Shyan; Huang, Shu-Chun] Chang Gung Univ, Hlth Aging Res Ctr, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Liu, Chia-Hao; Huang, Shu-Chun] Chang Gung Mem Hosp, New Taipei Municipal Tucheng Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Chen, Carl Pc; Huang, Shu-Chun] Chang Gung Univ, Coll Med, Kwei Shan, Taoyuan County, Taiwan; [Wang, Jong-Shyan] Chang Gung Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Human Ecol, Res Ctr Chinese Herbal Med, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Huang, Shu-Chun] Chang Gung Mem Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Linkou, Taiwan; [Huang, Shu-Chun] Chang Gung Univ, Hlth Aging Res Ctr, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Huang, Shu-Chun] Chang Gung Mem Hosp, New Taipei Municipal Tucheng Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Huang, Shu-Chun] Chang Gung Univ, Coll Med, Kwei Shan, Taoyuan County, Taiwan								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700006	33	Article; Article		
J	Fleming, James A.; Cathain, Ciaran O.; Harper, Liam D.; Naughton, Robert J.								Dietary Intake and Daily Distribution of Carbohydrate, Protein and Fat in Youth Tennis Players over a 7-Day Training and Competition Period								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			413	420		10.52082/jssm.2021.413			SEP 2021	2021	During a 7-day training and/or competition period, macronutrient intake and distribution was assessed using food diaries, supported by remote food photography and 24-hr multiple pass recalls of youth tennis players categorised by under 12s, under 14s and under 16+ age groups (n = 27). Total energy did not differ between age groups nor type of day (training [TD], competition day [CD]), irrespective of a significant increase in body mass reported in the older players (U16+; p < 0.05). Average intakes were consistently below 2250 kcal.day(-1) (range 1965 +/- 317-2232 +/- 612 kcal.day(-1)). Carbohydrate consumption was below guidelines for all groups (<= 6g.kg(-1)). Conversely, protein intake met or exceeded guidelines throughout, with intakes >= 2 g.kg(-1) for both the U12 and U14 age groups on both days. Protein intake was similar to 17% higher on TDs than CDs (p < 0.05), with protein intake at lunch significantly higher on TDs than CDs (p < 0.05). No further differences were observed between breakfast, lunch or dinner between group or day. Inconsistent snacking was reported, with players consuming snacks on less than half of the days reported (46 +/- 12% of TDs and 43 +/- 30% of CDs). In conclusion, youth tennis players present sub-optimal nutrition practices, appearing to under fuel and under consume carbohydrate for performance, adaptation, recovery and health.		[Fleming, James A.; Harper, Liam D.; Naughton, Robert J.] Univ Huddersfield, Sch Human & Hlth Sci, Huddersfield, W Yorkshire, England; [Fleming, James A.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, London, England; [Cathain, Ciaran O.] Athlone Inst Technol, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Athlone, Ireland; [Fleming, James A.] Univ Huddersfield, Sch Human & Hlth Sci, Huddersfield, W Yorkshire, England; [Fleming, James A.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Allied Hlth & Performance Sci, London, England								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700004	43	Article; Article		
J	von Duvillard, Serge P.; Carvalho, Luciana P.; Rodrigues, Sara A.; Cabido, Christian E.; Peixoto, Gustavo H.; Bell, Jeffrey W.; Chagas, Mauro H.; de Andrade, Andre G. P.								Assessment of the Maximal Range of Motion from Initial Sensation of Stretching to the Limits of Tolerance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			492	499		10.52082/jssm.2021.492			SEP 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to determine whether the first sensation of stretching (ROMFSS) may predict the maximum range of motion (ROMMAX) in male (N = 37) and female (N = 32) volunteer subjects, and to assess the reliability of the ROM perceived by subjects in relation to a pre-determined ROM (ROM50%). Subjects attempted three experimental sessions with 48 hours between sessions 1 and 2 and 28 days between sessions 1 and 3. Within each session, five trials were performed with isokinetic equipment to assess posterior thigh muscle flexibility. The results revealed a strong and significant correlation between ROMMAX and ROMFSS for both sexes, females (r = 0.96, p < 0.001, R-2 = 0.92) and males (r = 0.91, p < 0.001; R-2 = 0.82). The accuracy of the model verified by the standard error of estimate (SEE) was high in the equations proposed for both female (SEE = 4.53%) and male (SEE = 5.45%). Our results revealed that ROMFSS may predict the ROMMAX for both male and female subjects. The ROMFSS may contribute to the development of evaluation methods that do not subject the individuals to conditions that may include unnecessary risk of injury and is well suited to monitor the training process of stretching exercises with submaximal loads.		[von Duvillard, Serge P.] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport Sci & Kinesiol, Salzburg, Austria; [Carvalho, Luciana P.; Rodrigues, Sara A.; Cabido, Christian E.; Peixoto, Gustavo H.; Chagas, Mauro H.; de Andrade, Andre G. P.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Bell, Jeffrey W.] Southwest Minnesota State Univ, Sci Dept, Marshall, MN USA; [von Duvillard, Serge P.] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport Sci & Kinesiol, Rifer Schlossallee 49, A-5400 Hallein Rif, Austria								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700013	37	Article; Article		
J	Anders, John Paul, V; Kraemer, William J.; Newton, Robert U.; Post, Emily M.; Caldwell, Lydia K.; Beeler, Matthew K.; DuPont, William H.; Martini, Emily R.; Volek, Jeff S.; Hakkinen, Keijo; Maresh, Carl M.; Hayes, Scott M.								Acute Effects of High-intensity Resistance Exercise on Cognitive Function								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			391	397		10.52082/jssm.2021.391			SEP 2021	2021	The purpose of the present study was to examine the influence of an acute bout of high-intensity resistance exercise on measures of cognitive function. Ten men (Mean +/- SD: age = 24.4 +/- 3.2 yrs; body mass = 85.7 +/- 11.8 kg; height = 1.78 +/- 0.08 m; 1 repetition maximum (1RM) = 139.0 +/- 24.1 kg) gave informed consent and performed a high-intensity 6 sets of 10 repetitions of barbell back squat exercise at 80% 1RM with 2 minutes rest between sets. The Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics (ANAM) was completed to assess various cognitive domains during the familiarization period, immediately before, and immediately after the high-intensity resistance exercise bout. The repeated measures ANOVAs for throughput scores (r.m(-1)) demonstrated significant mean differences for the Mathematical Processing task (MTH; p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.625) where post hoc pairwise comparisons demonstrated that the post-fatigue throughput (32.0 +/- 8.8 r.m(-1)) was significantly greater than the pre-fatigue (23.8 +/- 7.4 r.m(-1), p = 0.003, d = 1.01) and the familiarization throughput (26.4 +/- 5.3 r.m(-1), p = 0.024, d = 0.77). The Coded Substitution-Delay task also demonstrated significant mean differences (CDD; p = 0.027, eta(2)(p) = 0.394) with post hoc pairwise comparisons demonstrating that the post-fatigue throughput (49.3 +/- 14.4 r.m(-1)) was significantly less than the pre-fatigue throughput (63.2 +/- 9.6 r.m(-1), p = 0.011, d = 1.14). The repeated measures ANOVAs for reaction time (ms) demonstrated significant mean differences for MTH (p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0.624) where post hoc pairwise comparisons demonstrated that the post-fatigue reaction time (1885.2 +/- 582.8 ms) was significantly less than the pre-fatigue (2518.2 +/- 884.8 ms, p = 0.005, d = 0.85) and familiarization (2253.7 +/- 567.6 ms, p = 0.009, d = 0.64) reaction times. The Go/No-Go task demonstrated significant mean differences (GNG; p = 0.031, eta(2)(p) = 0.320) with post hoc pairwise comparisons demonstrating that the post-fatigue (285.9 +/- 16.3 ms) was significantly less than the pre-fatigue (298.5 +/- 12.1 ms, p = 0.006, d = 0.88) reaction times. High-intensity resistance exercise may elicit domain-specific influences on cognitive function, characterized by the facilitation of simple cognitive tasks and impairments of complex cognitive tasks.		[Anders, John Paul, V; Kraemer, William J.; Martini, Emily R.; Volek, Jeff S.; Maresh, Carl M.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, 305 Annie & John Glenn Ave Off A054 PAES Bldg, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Anders, John Paul, V] Univ Nebraska, Dept Educ & Human Sci, Lincoln, NE USA; [Newton, Robert U.] Edith Cowan Univ, Exercise Med Res Inst, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; [Post, Emily M.] Ohio Dominican, Exercise Sci Dept, Columbus, OH USA; [Caldwell, Lydia K.] Univ North Texas, Appl Physiol Lab, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Beeler, Matthew K.] Hastings Coll Law, Dept Exercise Sci, Hastings, NE USA; [DuPont, William H.] Quinnipiac Univ, Dept Biomed Sci, Hamden, CT 06518 USA; [Hakkinen, Keijo] Univ Jyvaskyla, Dept Biol Phys Act, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Hakkinen, Keijo] Univ Jyvaskyla, Neuromuscular Res Ctr, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Hayes, Scott M.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Psychol, Columbus, OH USA; [Hayes, Scott M.] Ohio State Univ, Chron Brain Injury Initiat, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, 305 Annie & John Glenn Ave Off A054 PAES Bldg, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700001	27	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Yen-Yu; Hung, Chung-Lieh; Sun, Fang-Ju; Huang, Po-Han; Cheng, Yu-Fan; Yeh, Hung-, I								Augmentation Index Predicts the Sweat Volume in Young Runners								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			448	456		10.52082/jssm.2021.448			SEP 2021	2021	Sweating during exercise is regulated by objective parameters, body weight, and endothelial function, among other factors. However, the relationship between vascular arterial stiffness and sweat volume in young adults remains unclear. This study aimed to identify hemodynamic parameters before exercise that can predict sweat volume during exercise, and post-exercise parameters that can be predicted by the sweat volume. Eighty-nine young healthy subjects (aged 21.9 +/- 1.7 years, 51 males) were recruited to each perform a 3-km run on a treadmill. Demographic and anthropometric data were collected and hemodynamic data were obtained, including heart rate, blood pressure and pulse wave analysis using non-invasive tonometry. Sweat volume was defined as pre-exercise body weight minus post-exercise body weight. Post-exercise hemodynamic parameters were also collected. Sweat volume was significantly associated with gender, body surface area (BSA) (b = 0.288, p = 0.010), peripheral systolic blood pressure (SBP), peripheral and central pulse pressure (PP), and was inversely associated with augmentation index at an HR of 75 beats/min (AIx@HR75) (b = -0.005, p = 0.019) and ejection duration. While BSA appeared to predict central PP (B = 19.271, p <= 0.001), central PP plus AIx@HR75 further predicted sweat volume (B = 0.008, p = 0.025; B = -0.009, p = 0.003 respectively). Sweat volume was associated with peripheral SBP change (B = -17.560, p = 0.031). Sweat volume during a 3-km run appears to be influenced by hemodynamic parameters, including vascular arterial stiffness and central pulse pressure. Results of the present study suggest that vascular arterial stiffness likely regulates sweat volume during exercise.		[Liu, Yen-Yu] MacKay Mem Hosp, Dept Crit Care Med, Taipei, Taiwan; [Liu, Yen-Yu; Hung, Chung-Lieh; Yeh, Hung-, I] MacKay Mem Hosp, Dept Internal Med, Cardiovasc Div, Taipei, Taiwan; [Liu, Yen-Yu; Hung, Chung-Lieh; Yeh, Hung-, I] Mackay Med Coll, Inst Biomed Sci, New Taipei, Taiwan; [Hung, Chung-Lieh; Sun, Fang-Ju; Yeh, Hung-, I] Mackay Jr Coll Med Nursing & Management, Taipei, Taiwan; [Sun, Fang-Ju] MacKay Mem Hosp, Dept Med Res, Taipei, Taiwan; [Sun, Fang-Ju] Natl Yang Ming Univ, Inst Biomed Informat, Taipei, Taiwan; [Huang, Po-Han] Mackay Mem Hosp, Gen Internal Med, Taipei, Taiwan; [Cheng, Yu-Fan] Taipei Med Univ Hosp, Gen Internal Med, Taipei, Taiwan; [Yeh, Hung-, I] MacKay Mem Hosp, Cardiovasc Ctr, 92,Setc 2,Zhongshan North Rd, Taipei 10449, Taiwan; [Yeh, Hung-, I] MacKay Mem Hosp, Div Cardiol, 92,Setc 2,Zhongshan North Rd, Taipei 10449, Taiwan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700008	25	Article; Article		
J	Prinz, Bernhard; Zoeger, Manfred; Tschan, Harald; Nimmerichter, Alfred								Oxygen Uptake Kinetics in Endurance Trained Youth and Adult Cyclists								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			398	403		10.52082/jssm.2021.398			SEP 2021	2021	Previous studies reported faster pulmonary oxygen uptake kinetics at the onset of exercise in untrained youth compared with adults. Whether or not these differences are identical for trained groups have not been examined. The purpose of this study was to compare (V)over dotO(2) kinetics of youth and adult cyclists at moderate and heavy-intensity exercise. Thirteen adult (age: 23.2 +/- 4.8 years; (V)over dotO(2peak) 68.4 +/- 6.8 mL.min(-1).kg(-1)) and thirteen youth cyclists (age: 14.3 +/- 1.5 years; (V)over dotO(2peak) 61.7 +/- 4.3 mL.min(-1).kg(-1)) completed a series of 6-min square wave exercises at moderate and heavy-intensity exercise at 90 rev.min(-1). A two-way repeated-measure ANOVA was conducted to identify differences between groups and intensities. The time constant, time delay and the mean response time were not significantly different between youth and adult cyclists (p > 0.05). We found significant differences between intensities, with a faster time constant during moderate than heavy-intensity exercise in youth (24.1 +/- 7.0 s vs. 31.8 +/- 5.6 s; p = 0.004) and adults (22.7 +/- 5.6 s vs. 28.6 +/- 5.7 s; p < 0.001). The present data suggest that the effect of training history in adult cyclists compensate for the superior primary response of the oxygen uptake kinetics typically seen in youth compared to adults. Furthermore, the (V)over dotO(2) response is dependent of work rate intensity in trained youth and adult cyclists.		[Prinz, Bernhard; Zoeger, Manfred; Nimmerichter, Alfred] Univ Appl Sci, Training & Sports Sci, Johannes Gutenbergstr 3, A-2700 Wiener Neustadt, Austria; [Prinz, Bernhard] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Vienna, Austria; [Tschan, Harald] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Sport & Exercise Sci, Vienna, Austria; [Nimmerichter, Alfred] Univ Appl Sci, Training & Sports Sci, Johannes Gutenbergstr 3, A-2700 Wiener Neustadt, Austria								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700002	31	Article; Article		
J	Slegers, Nathan; Lee, Davin; Wong, Grant								The Relationship of Intra-Individual Release Variability with Distance and Shooting Performance in Basketball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			508	515		10.52082/jssm.2021.508			SEP 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to investigate the role of release parameter changes within individuals (intra-individual) on basketball shooting performance across both free throws and three-point shots, and identify whether any velocity dependence exists. Twelve male basketball players were recorded shooting seventy-five three-point shots (6.75 m) and fifty free throws (4.19 m). Ball release parameters were estimated by combining an analytic trajectory model including drag, a least squares estimator, and gradient-based release distance compensation. Intra-individual release velocity standard deviations (SD) were found to be significantly smaller across all distances ([0.05 - 0.13 m/s] when compared to statistics reported by other studies [0.2 - 0.8 m/s]). Despite an increase in lower body motion and a 24% increase in release velocity (p < 0.001) as shooting distance increased, no increases in intra-individual release velocity or angle SD were observed indicating velocity-dependent changes in release parameters were absent. Shooting performance was found to be strongly correlated to the release velocity SD (r = -0.96, p < 0.001, for three-point shots, and r = -0.88, p < 0.001, for free throws). Release angle SD (1.2 +/- 0.24 deg, for three-point shots, and 1.3 +/- 0.26 deg, for free throws) showed no increase with distance and unrelated to performance. These findings suggest that velocity-dependent factors have minimal contribution to shooting strategies and an individual's ability to control release velocity at any distance is a primary factor in determining their shooting performance.		[Slegers, Nathan; Lee, Davin; Wong, Grant] George Fox Univ, Mech & Biomed Engn, Newberg, OR 97132 USA; [Slegers, Nathan] George Fox Univ, Mech & Biomed Engn, Newberg, OR 97132 USA								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700015	23	Article; Article		
J	Ornelas, Martha; Margarita Rodriguez-Villalobos, Judith; Viciana, Jesus; Cesar Guedea, Julio; Rene Blanco, Jose; Mayorga-Vega, Daniel								Composition Factor Analysis and Factor Invariance of the Physical Appearance State and Trait Anxiety Scale (PASTAS) in Sports and Non-Sports Practitioner Mexican Adolescents								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			525	534		10.52082/jssm.2021.525			SEP 2021	2021	The purpose of the present study was to adapt and validate the Physical Appearance State and Trait Anxiety Scale (PASTAS) for Mexican adolescents, verifying the factor invariance by sports and non-sports practitioners. A sample of 930 Mexican adolescents (46.0% females), aged 11 - 15 years old, voluntarily participated in the study. A total of 415 participants regularly played sports in a club and/or regularly participated in sports competitions and 515 were non-sports practitioners. The adolescents filled out the trait version of the PASTAS questionnaire, which was previously translated and adapted for Mexican-speaking adolescents following the International Test Commission guidelines. The results of the confirmatory factor analyses showed an adequate measurement model for the original two-factor structure (e.g., GFI = 0.913; RMSEA = 0.078; CFI = 0.943). The internal consistency of the two dimensions was excellent (a and Omega = 0.92 - 0.93). Additionally, the results of the factorial invariance analyses showed an appropriate fit of the two-structure model (e.g., GFI = 0.96; CFI = 0.98; RMSEA = 0.04) among both sports and non-sports practitioners. The proposed trait version of the PASTAS questionnaire adapted to a Mexican-speaking population shows adequate psychometric properties among Mexican adolescents. The Mexican version of the PASTAS questionnaire supports the original two-factor structure (i.e., factor related to the body weight and factor not related to body weight) among adolescents. Additionally, the factorial invariance analyses support the equivalence of the two-factor structure among both sports and non-sports practitioners.		[Ornelas, Martha; Margarita Rodriguez-Villalobos, Judith; Cesar Guedea, Julio; Rene Blanco, Jose] Autonomous Univ Chihuahua, Fac Phys Culture Sci, Chihuahua, Chihuahua, Mexico; [Viciana, Jesus] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Mayorga-Vega, Daniel] Univ Jaen, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Jaen, Spain; [Mayorga-Vega, Daniel] Univ Jaen, Fac Humanities & Educ Sci, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Jaen, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700017	54	Article; Article		
J	Coyne, Joseph; Coutts, Aaron; Newton, Robert; Haff, G. Gregory								Training Load, Heart Rate Variability, Direct Current Potential and Elite Long Jump Performance Prior and during the 2016 Olympic Games								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	3			482	491		10.52082/jssm.2021.482			SEP 2021	2021	The primary objective of this investigation was to investigate the relationships between training load (TL), heart rate variability (HRV) and direct current potential (DC) with elite long jump performance prior to and during the 2016 Olympics Games. Sessional ratings of perceived exertion (sRPE), training duration, HRV and DC were collected from four elite athletes (26.4 +/- 1.4 years, height 1.83 +/- 0.05 m, weight 68.9 +/- 5.0 kg) for a 16-week period in qualification for and competition at the 2016 Olympic Games. Acute and chronic TL, training stress balance and differential load were calculated with three different smoothing methods. These TL measures along with HRV and DC were examined for their relationship to intra-athlete performance using repeated measure correlations and linear mixed models. Successful compared to unsuccessful intra-athlete performances were characterised by a higher chronic TL (p < 0.01, f(2) = 0.31) but only when TL was exponentially smoothed. There were also negative correlations between HRV and performance (r = - 0.55, p < 0.01) and HRV was significantly lower for more successful performances (p < 0.01, f(2) = 0.19). Exponentially smoothed chronic TL was significantly higher and HRV was significantly lower for successful intra-athlete performances prior and during the 2016 Olympics Games in an elite group of long jump athletes. Monitoring sRPE and HRV measures and manipulating TL prior to competition seems worthwhile for elite long jump athletes.		[Coyne, Joseph; Newton, Robert; Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Coutts, Aaron] Univ Technol Sydney UTS, Human Performance Res Ctr, Moore Pk Rd, Moore Pk, NSW 2021, Australia; [Coutts, Aaron] Univ Technol Sydney UTS, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Moore Pk Rd, Moore Pk, NSW 2021, Australia; [Newton, Robert] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, St Lucia, Qld, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Coyne, Joseph] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000669543700012	38	Article; Article		
J	Emery, Sophie; Cook, Jill; Ferrar, Katia; Mayes, Susan								Deep hip external rotator muscle size in ballet dancers compared to non-dancing athletes, and associations to pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				58	64		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.06.010			SEP 2021	2021	Objectives: To compare the deep hip external rotator (DHER) muscle (piriformis, gemelli, quadratus femoris (QF)) cross-sectional area (CSA) in dancers and athletes and evaluate the relationship between DHER size and hip pain. Study design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Elite ballet and sport. Participants: 33 professional ballet dancers and 33 age and sex-matched athletes. Main outcome measures: CSAs of piriformis, gemelli and QF on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Hip pain scored with the Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS): Hip pain was categorised as 'yes' if HAGOS pain score was 100, 'no' if HAGOS pain was = 100. Results: Estimated marginal mean CSA of piriformis, gemelli and QF muscles was similar in athletes and dancers (p 0.05), and CSAs were not associated with hip pain. Male and female dancers had similar sized DHER muscles. In athletes, CSA of piriformis was 55% (p = 0.02, Cohen's d(95%CI) = 0.98 (0.26,1.71)) and the gemelli were 34% (p = 0.03, Cohen's d(95%CI) = 0.98 (0.26,1.70)) larger in men than women; QF was 36% larger (p = 0.08, Cohen's d(95%CI) = 0.77 (0.06,1.48)). Conclusion: Although ballet dancers perform in external rotation, their DHER are no larger than athletes and muscle size was not associated with hip pain. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Emery, Sophie; Ferrar, Katia; Mayes, Susan] Australian Ballet, 2 Kavanagh St, Southbank, Vic 3006, Australia; [Cook, Jill; Ferrar, Katia; Mayes, Susan] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sports & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Emery, Sophie] Australian Ballet, 2 Kavanagh St, Southbank, Vic 3006, Australia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500009	40	Article; Article		
J	De-la-Cruz-Torres, Blanca; Maffulli, Nicola; Hernandez-Sanchez, Sergio								Cross-cultural adaptation of the Victorian institute of sports assessment-Hamstrings (VISA-H) questionnaire for Spanish speaking athletes with proximal hamstring tendinopathy								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				50	57		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.06.009			SEP 2021	2021	Objective: To cross-culturally adapt and validate the Victorian Institute of Sports Assessment - Ham-strings (VISA-H) scale into Spanish. Design: Clinical measurement study (psychometric analysis). Setting: Sports clubs and physiotherapy clinics. Participants: The Spanish version of the VISA-H (VISA-H-Sp) scale was administered to 101 subjects: 50 healthy runners and 51 patients with a clinical diagnosis of PHT. Main measures: The Victorian Institute of Sports Assessment -Hamstrings. Results: Cronbach's alpha for the VISA-H-Sp was >0.8. The ICC 2,1 was 0.993 (95%CI 0.991-0.995). In the exploratory factor analysis, a one-factor solution explained 72.1% of the total variance. Athletes with PHT scored significantly lower in the VISA-H-Sp than healthy subjects (P < 0.001). The VISA-H-Sp score re-sults in the PHT group showed significant correlations with SF-36 physical components (Spearman r'>0.6; P < 0.001), and low or non-significant association with psychological dimensions. The standard error of measurement was 1.45 whereas the minimal detectable change was 4.02 points. The respon-siveness indicators included an effect size of 2.75, and a standardised response mean of 3.1 at discharge. Conclusion: The VISA-H-Sp shows adequate psychometric properties for assessing the severity of symptoms in Spanish-speaking athletes who suffer from PHT. (c) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).		[De-la-Cruz-Torres, Blanca] Univ Seville, Dept Physiotherapy, Avicena St, Seville 41009, Spain; [Maffulli, Nicola] Queen Mary Univ London, Ctr Sports & Exercise Med, Mile End Rd, London E1 4NS, England; [Maffulli, Nicola] Sch Med Surg & Dent, Dept Orthopaed, Salerno, Italy; [Maffulli, Nicola] Keele Univ, Sch Med, Sch Pharm & Bioengn Keele, Stoke On Trent ST4 7FB, Staffs, England; [Hernandez-Sanchez, Sergio] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Pathol & Surg Dept, Physiotherapy Area, Translat Res Ctr Physiotherapy, Ctra Valencia S-N, Alicante 03550, Spain; [Hernandez-Sanchez, Sergio] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Pathol & Surg Dept, Physiotherapy Area, Translat Res Ctr Physiotherapy, Ctra Valencia S-N, Alicante 03550, Spain								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500008	38	Article; Article		
J	Parvaresh, Kevin C.; Wichman, Daniel M.; Alter, Thomas D.; Clapp, Ian M.; Nho, Shane J.								High rate of return to tennis after hip arthroscopy for patients with femoroacetabular impingement syndrome								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				45	49		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.06.007			SEP 2021	2021	Objective: The purpose of this study was to evaluate return to sport (RTS) outcomes in tennis athletes following hip arthroscopy for femoroacetabular impingement syndrome (FAIS). It was hypothesized that there would be a high rate of return to tennis after hip arthroscopy. Study design: Level IV, Retrospective Analysis. Setting: Outpatient sports medicine clinic at a single institution. Participants: A total of 28 patients (60.8% female; mean age, 36.2 +/- 9.2 years; mean BMI, 22.8 +/- 2.1 kg/m(2)) with self reported tennis activity prior to hip arthroscopy. Main outcome measures: A postoperative return to sport and minimum two-year patient reported outcomes. Results: There was a high rate of return to tennis, with 78% of patients eventually returning to tennis. An additional 9% of patients had the necessary hip function to return, but did not return due to lack of interest or resources. The patients returned to tennis at an average of 8.0 +/- 3.3 months after surgery. The majority of athletes (66.7%) were able to continue competing at the same or higher levels following surgery. Conclusions: Patients return to tennis 78% of the time at a mean of 8.0 +/- 3.3 months following hip arthroscopy for FAIS. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Parvaresh, Kevin C.; Wichman, Daniel M.; Alter, Thomas D.; Clapp, Ian M.; Nho, Shane J.] Rush Univ, Rush Med Coll, Sect Young Adult Hip Surg, Div Sports Med,Dept Orthoped Surg,Med Ctr, Chicago, IL 60612 USA; [Alter, Thomas D.] 1611 W Harrison St, Chicago, IL 60612 USA								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500007	40	Article; Article		
J	Jasinovic, Tin; Burma, Joel S.; Cameron, Ben; Lun, Victor; van Rassel, Cody R.; Sutter, Bonnie; Wiley, J. Preston; Schneider, Kathryn J.								The effect of high-intensity physical exertion on measures of cervical spine, vestibular/ocular-motor screening, and vestibulo-ocular reflex function in university level collision and combative sport athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				36	44		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.06.008			SEP 2021	2021	Objectives: To examine how high-intensity physical exertion affects clinical measures of cervical spine (CSp), vestibular/ocular motor screen (VOMS), and vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) function. Design: Case series. Setting: Sports Medicine Centre. Participants: A total of 37 athletes consented to participate (22 rugby, 15 wrestling; 9 men, 28 women; median age = 19 years [range 17-23 years]). Main outcome measures: Outcome measures included tests of CSp (cervical flexor endurance, head perturbation test, cervical flexion rotation test and anterolateral strength), VOR (head thrust test and dynamic visual acuity [DVA]), and a quantified version of the VOMS. These metrics were assessed prior to and after completing the 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test. Bland-Altman plots and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests were utilized to analyze the data using an alpha of p < 0.004. Results: Cervical anterolateral strength (kg) was reduced post-exertion on the left (z = 3.87; p < 0.001), but not on the right between conditions (z =-1.49; p = 0.14). Athletes reported increased dizziness (z =-3.55; p = 0.004) and had reduced DVA following exertion (z =-2.78; p 0.001). All other metrics were not significantly different following exertion (p 0.011). Conclusion: Reduced performance on DVA, decreased left-anterolateral strength, and increased dizziness occurred following high-intensity exertion in varsity collision and combative athletes, which has implications for sideline screening for sport-related concussion. (c) 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Jasinovic, Tin; Cameron, Ben; Lun, Victor; Wiley, J. Preston] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Family Med, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Burma, Joel S.; van Rassel, Cody R.; Wiley, J. Preston; Schneider, Kathryn J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Burma, Joel S.; Schneider, Kathryn J.] Univ Calgary, Hotchkiss Brain Inst, Cumming Sch Med, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Cameron, Ben; Lun, Victor; Sutter, Bonnie; Wiley, J. Preston; Schneider, Kathryn J.] Univ Calgary, Sport Med Ctr, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Schneider, Kathryn J.] Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst, Cumming Sch Med, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Schneider, Kathryn J.] Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, KNB 3300D,2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500006	40	Article; Article		
J	Harris, Meaghan; Edwards, Suzi; Rio, Ebonie; Cook, Jill; Cencini, Sebastiano; Hannington, Madeline Claire; Bonello, Christian; Docking, Sean								Nearly 40% of adolescent athletes report anterior knee pain regardless of maturation status, age, sex or sport played								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				29	35		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.06.005			SEP 2021	2021	Objective: To report point prevalence of anterior knee pain (AKP) in adolescent athletes by (1) maturation status, (2) chronological age, (3) sex, and (4) primary sport. Design: Cross-sectional. Methods: Male and female participants aged 11-15 years were recruited from specialised sports programs for basketball, volleyball, Australian Rules Football and tennis. Standing height, sitting height, and body mass were measured and used to calculate maturity status. Past injury history, self-reported physical activity, and Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment Questionnaire Patellar Tendon (VISA-P) questionnaires were completed. Anterior knee pain was defined as any pain experienced on the anterior surface of the knee and recorded using a visual analogue scale (VAS). A single leg decline squat (SLDS) was performed for provocation of AKP. Results: Two hundred and seventeen male and female adolescent athletes participated in this study. Twenty participants were excluded from data analysis. Point prevalence of AKP was 39% (N = 76). Average self-reported physical activity/week was 7.9 +/- 4.1 h of their specialised sport and 2.0 +/- 2.0 h of other physical activity/week. Maturation status, chronological age, sex nor primary sporting program was statistically significant in explaining the presence or absence of AKP. Conclusion: Due to the right-skewed maturation sample, the authors cannot state conclusively that maturation status was not associated with AKP. Nearly 40% of this cohort reported AKP during a pain provocation test. The presence of AKP was not explained by maturation status, age, sex or primary sport program. Given the chronic nature of AKP and future morbidity reported, this high prevalence provides rationale for intervention or prevention studies targeting younger athletes. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Harris, Meaghan; Edwards, Suzi] Univ Newcastle, Sch Environm & Life Sci, 10 Chittaway Rd, Ourimbah, NSW 2258, Australia; [Edwards, Suzi] Univ Newcastle, Prior Res Ctr Phys Act & Nutr, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Rio, Ebonie; Cook, Jill; Hannington, Madeline Claire; Bonello, Christian; Docking, Sean] La Trobe Univ, Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Cencini, Sebastiano] Univ Siena, Santa Maria Scotte Hosp, Dept Med Surg & Neurosci, Viale Mario Bracci 16, Siena, Italy; [Docking, Sean] Monash Univ, Cabrini Inst, Monash Dept Clin Epidemiol, Clayton, Vic, Australia; [Docking, Sean] Cabrini Hlth, Cabrini Inst, Malvern, Vic, Australia; [Harris, Meaghan] Univ Newcastle, Sch Environm & Life Sci, 10 Chittaway Rd, Ourimbah, NSW 2258, Australia								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500005	30	Article; Article		
J	Johnston, Peta T.; Feller, Julian A.; McClelland, Jodie A.; Webster, Kate E.								Lower limb kinematics differ at the time of foot contact between successful and unsuccessful single limb landings following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				17	21		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.06.004			SEP 2021	2021	Objectives: To investigate differences in lower extremity kinematics at initial ground contact between successful and unsuccessful single limb landings following anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. Design: Observational study. Setting: Controlled laboratory environment. Participants: 22 male participants (aged 17-40 years) who had undergone unilateral ACL reconstruction attended a single test session. Main outcome measures: Within-subjects comparisons was performed for pelvis, hip, knee and ankle kinematics using paired t-tests. Results: When unsuccessful at landing on the ACL reconstructed limb, participants had significantly increased knee flexion (P = 0.04) and reduced ankle plantarflexion (P = 0.03) compared to their suc-cessful landings. In contrast, when unsuccessful at landing on the unaffected limb, participants had significantly increased pelvic contralateral hitch (P < 0.01) and increased hip abduction (P < 0.01) compared to successful landings. Conclusion: Body position at the time of initial contact was different for landings that were successful compared to landings that were unsuccessful. These differences were limb-specific: altered position in sagittal plane preceded unsuccessful landings on the reconstructed limb whereas altered position in the coronal plane body position that preceded unsuccessful landings on the unaffected limb. These findings suggest that limb specific landing strategies may be required to improve athletes' performance following ACL reconstruction. Level of evidence: IV. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Johnston, Peta T.; McClelland, Jodie A.; Webster, Kate E.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, Melbourne, Vic 3086, Australia; [Feller, Julian A.] OrthoSport Victoria, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Webster, Kate E.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, Melbourne, Vic 3086, Australia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500003	27	Article; Article		
J	Walker, Joann M.; Brunst, Caroline L.; Chaput, Meredith; Wohl, Timothy R.; Grooms, Dustin R.								Integrating neurocognitive challenges into injury prevention training: A clinical commentary								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				8	16		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.005			SEP 2021	2021	Despite the efforts of many traditional lower extremity injury prevention programs (IPP), the incidence of anterior cruciate ligament injuries in young athletes continues to rise. Current best practices for IPPs include training lower extremity neuromuscular control and movement quality during cutting, jumping, and pivoting. Emerging evidence indicates neurocognition may contribute to injury incidence and injury risk biomechanics. Therefore, IPP outcomes may improve if clinicians also consider neurocognitive contributions to neuromuscular control and athletic performance. A substantial barrier to neurocognitive challenge integration during injury prevention training in the group setting is the lack of structured neuromuscular and neurocognitive progressions. Therefore, our aim is to provide clinicians with a defined framework and recommendations from clinical experience for how to implement neurocognitive challenges within group IPPs that requires minimal extra time and resources. This clinical commentary proposes a three-phase model adopted from motor learning literature to simultaneously progress neuromuscular and neurocognitive challenges through a structured IPP. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Walker, Joann M.; Brunst, Caroline L.] Ohio State Univ, Wexner Med Ctr, Sports Med & Rehabil, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Brunst, Caroline L.] Ohio State Univ, Jameson Crane Sports Med Res Inst, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Chaput, Meredith; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Ohio Musculoskeletal & Neurol Inst, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Chaput, Meredith; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Coll Hlth Sci & Profess, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Div Athlet Training, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Chaput, Meredith; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Coll Hlth Sci & Profess, Sch Rehabil & Commun Sci, Div Phys Therapy, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Wohl, Timothy R.] Ohio State Univ, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Div Phys Therapy, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Brunst, Caroline L.] Ohio State Univ, Wexner Med Ctr, Sports Med & Rehabil, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Ohio Musculoskeletal & Neurol Inst, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Walker, Joann M.] Grover Ctr, W2831 Ohio Univ, Athens, OH 45701 USA								31							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500002	65	Article; Article		
J	Teahan, Calvin; O'Connor, Siobhan; Whyte, Enda F.								Injuries in Irish male and female collegiate athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				51				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.06.001			SEP 2021	2021	Objective: To understand the incidence and burden of injury of student-athletes in four of the most popular collegiate sports. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Collegiate sport. Participants: Gaelic football, hurling/Camogie, soccer and Rugby (n = 672; male = 416, female = 256) student-athletes. Main outcome measure: Injury incidence, burden of injury and total, match and training injury rates, and their 95% confidence intervals were calculated. The frequencies and proportions were also calculated. An injury was defined as any physical condition that prevents a student-athlete from full participation for a period greater than 24 h. Results: Over a quarter (0.266) of student-athletes sustained an injury in the academic season. Male student-athletes had a higher injury rate than females (21.6 vs 11.3 injuries/1000 h). Rugby (20.8 injuries/ 1000 h) had the highest injury rates with hurling/Camogie (6.3 injuries/1000 h) the lowest. Lower extremity injuries were predominant (68.8%) with ankle sprains demonstrating a large burden for all sports (20.6-280.2 days absent/1000 h). Hamstring strains (13.7-118.4 days absent/1000 h) had a large burden for all sports except male Rugby. Knee sprains had a large burden on the female Gaelic footballer (84.8 days absent/1000 h). Sprinting (27.4%) and the tackle (20.1%) were the most common mechanism of injury. Injuries were predominantly moderate (8-28 days) or severe (>28 days) (84.7%). Conclusion: Injury reduction needs to be prioritised in the student-athlete, particularly in males. Specific focus is required on the lower extremity, especially in the hamstring muscles and ankle joint owing to the large burden of injury. (c) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Teahan, Calvin; O'Connor, Siobhan; Whyte, Enda F.] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Ctr Injury Prevent & Performance Athlet Therapy &, Dublin 9, Ireland; [Teahan, Calvin] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Dublin 9, Ireland								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000692792500001	47	Article; Article		
J	Memari, Zhaleh; Rezaei Pandari, Abbas; Bemanzadeh, Fahimeh								An interpretive structural model for factors affecting the tax compliance of professional athletes: a case study of football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	3			505	526		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2021-0077			JUN 28 2022	2022	Purpose Tax revenues are becoming one of the crucial tax policy segments in developing countries. Governments intend to collect more funds in the budget. The study aimed to identify the dimensions and factors influencing tax compliance in Iranian professional football players. Design/methodology/approach Based on interpretive structural modelling (ISM), the required information was collected using a literature review and a pairwise comparison questionnaire from eleven sport academic and executive participants. Content validity index of the questionnaire was >0.7 and its inconsistency index was Findings The influential factors put in six levels. Results showed "new technologies for implementing regulations" and "clear tax regulations" were the lowest level's most independent factors. Simultaneously, the "possibility of identifying violating taxpayers" and "transparency of the clubs' financial data" were the most dependent factors at the model's first level. Moreover, "legal" was the greatest, and "technological" dimensions had at least importance, and the "amount and manner of fines" was the influential factor. The findings can use for policymaking to improve the professional player's and society tax compliance. Originality/value The authors identified the most independent, dependent, influential and minor essential football players' tax compliance factors and the relations between these factors. Recognising each of the factors' role and level of importance can help governments and policymakers in tax legislation in sport.		[Memari, Zhaleh; Bemanzadeh, Fahimeh] Alzahra Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport Management, Tehran, Iran; [Rezaei Pandari, Abbas] Tarbiat Modares Univ, Ind Management, Tehran, Iran; [Memari, Zhaleh] Alzahra Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport Management, Tehran, Iran								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000691609700001	68	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Kristian M.; Wallace, Eric S.; Otto, Steve R.								The relationship between skill and ground reaction force variability in amateur golfers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1663	1680		10.1080/14763141.2021.1965649			OCT 2 2024	2024	It is accepted that highly skilled golfers are more consistent in their clubhead presentation and shot outcomes than their lesser skilled counterparts. However, the relationships between movement variability, outcome variability and skill in golf are not particularly well understood. This study examined the ground reaction force variability of one-hundred and four amateur golfers for shots with drivers and 5-irons. Principal component analysis was used as a data reduction technique and allowed all three components of ground reaction force to be considered together. There were statistically significant trends for the higher skilled golfers to display lower variability in two of the five principal components (driver) and four of the five principal components (5-iron). A similar trend was also observed in the other principal components, but these trends were not statistically significant. Intra-individual variability was much lower than inter-individual variability across all golfers; the golfers were each relatively consistent in maintaining their own ground reaction force patterns. Lower variability in ground reaction forces may partly explain how highly skilled golfers maintain lower variability in shot outcomes.		[Jones, Kristian M.; Otto, Steve R.] R&A Rules Ltd, Equipment Stand, St Andrews, Fife, Scotland; [Wallace, Eric S.] Ulster Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Inst, Newtownabbey, North Ireland; [Jones, Kristian M.] R&A Rules Ltd, Equipment Stand, St Andrews, Fife, Scotland								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000690863800001	54	Article; Article		
J	Park, Sanghyun; Kim, Seungmo; Magnusen, Marshall J.								Two sides of the same coin: Exploring how the bright and dark sides of team cohesion can influence sport team performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			519	531	17479541211042555	10.1177/17479541211042555			JUN 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to analyze the potential positive and negative effects of team cohesion on team performance in a sport organization. Unbalanced panel data of 10 teams for the past 22 years (1997 season through the 2017-2018 season) from the Korean Basketball League were collected. A social network analysis approach was employed to measure network density as a proxy variable to measure team cohesion. The panel analysis results indicated team cohesion was shown to have a positive influence on team performance in the linear model as well as a negative influence on team performance in the quadratic model. The interaction effect of manager-player density did not influence team performance. In this study, the pattern of the relationship between team cohesion and performance was an inverted U-shape. Summarily, the density of a player's school network could negatively influence team performance when it exceeds an optimal density level.		[Park, Sanghyun] Yonsei Univ, Dept Sport Ind Studies, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Seungmo] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport Phys Educ & Hlth, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Magnusen, Marshall J.] Baylor Univ, Dept Educ Leadership, Waco, TX USA; [Kim, Seungmo] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport Phys Educ & Hlth, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Kim, Seungmo] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport Phys Educ & Hlth, Kowloon Tong, 932 Acad & Adm Bldg,15 Baptist Univ Rd Campus, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000690594600001	85	Article; Article		
J	Moreno Manas, Enrique; Llana-Belloch, Salvador; Ubeda-Pastor, Vicent; Garcia-Masso, Xavier								The effect of 26 versus 29-inch wheel diameter in the transmission of vibrations in cross-country mountain biking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1705	1725		10.1080/14763141.2021.1968480			OCT 2 2024	2024	Vibrations experienced by cyclists can affect their performance and health. We analysed the vibrations transmitted by mountain bike (26 or 29-inch wheels), in a 2,110 m circuit with a sample of 55 cyclists. The results indicate that the 29"-wheel increases speed (p < 0.001) and thus performance but it also increases exposure to vibrations as the root mean square (RMS) indicate (p = 0.001). The wheel diameter significantly affected the accelerometer-related dependent variables (p 0.01), specifically seen in the RMS variable (p 0.01). Regarding vibration transmission variables, it was found that the LW/FH, RW/FH, LA/RH, and RA/RH ratios were higher in the 29" bicycle than in 26" one. Average heart rate (p = 0.01) and maximum heart rate (p < 0.01) values were higher for the 29" bike with no significant differences in the average power values recorded. In conclusion, bicycles with 29" wheels transmit higher levels of vibration to riders.		[Moreno Manas, Enrique; Llana-Belloch, Salvador; Ubeda-Pastor, Vicent] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Valencia, Spain; [Garcia-Masso, Xavier] Univ Valencia, Dept Mus Plast & Corporal Teaching, Valencia, Spain; [Llana-Belloch, Salvador] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Valencia, Spain								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000688314900001	26	Article; Article		
J	Sakai, Shin; Koike, Sekiya; Takeda, Tsuyoshi; Sengoku, Yasuo; Homma, Miwako; Takagi, Hideki								Kinetics of four limb joints during kick-start motion in competitive swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1651	1662		10.1080/14763141.2021.1963465			OCT 2 2024	2024	The kick-start technique in competitive swimming generates a force acting on the starting platform owing to gravity, muscle contraction and resulting joint torque. To understand optimal body movement on the starting platform for maximising take-off velocity, it is necessary to investigate the joint torque in relation to the joint's rotation effects. Joint torques were calculated by inverse dynamics using kinetic and kinematic data. A one-way ANOVA showed significantly greater extensional torque for shoulders than for elbows or wrists, and for hips than for knees or ankles. The results indicated that the force of the hands was mainly influenced by extension torque at the shoulder joint. Hip joint extension torque on the front side lower limb (FSLL) was mainly used for supporting the body weight until hands off. After hands off, the front-foot force originated mainly by increases in ankle joint plantar flexion and knee joint extension torque on the FSLL. Rear side lower limb torque increases in the hip, knee and ankle joints provided the rear-foot force. This investigation clarified the magnitudes and functions of each joint torque acting on the extremities during the kick-start, providing practical information for improving starting performance.		[Sakai, Shin] Tokyo Womens Coll Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ, Kunitachi, Tokyo, Japan; [Koike, Sekiya; Sengoku, Yasuo; Homma, Miwako; Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Takeda, Tsuyoshi] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Inzai, Japan; [Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000687978300001	31	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Daehwan; Lee, Joon Sung; Jang, Wonseok (Eric); Ko, Yong Jae								Does causal reasoning lead to moral reasoning? Consumers' responses to scandalized athletes and endorsements								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	3			465	484		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2020-0161			JUN 28 2022	2022	Purpose Marketers and brand managers are subject to reputational crises when their endorsers are involved in scandals. To effectively manage such crises, it is imperative to understand (1) the underlying mechanisms through which consumers process negative information surrounding morally tainted endorsers, and (2) how these mechanisms affect consumer behavior in the context of athlete scandals. Design/methodology/approach Drawing on attribution theory and the moral reasoning strategy framework, we investigate the impact of attribution on moral reasoning strategies, and the impact of such strategies on consumers' responses to scandalized athletes and endorsements. Findings Overall, our results demonstrate that the same scandal can be evaluated differently, depending on its information, including the consensus, distinctiveness, and consistency of the scandal. The results of Study 1 show that in the context of an on-field scandal, individuals engage in a sequential cognitive process in which they go through attribution, the choice of a moral reasoning strategy, and ultimately a response. The results of Study 2 reveal that in the context of an off-field scandal, attribution directly influences consumers' responses. Originality/value We extend the existing literature on the moral reasoning of athlete scandals by suggesting that attribution is a determinant of moral reasoning choice in the context of on-field scandals. We also extend the sports marketing and consumer behavior literature by suggesting that consumers' diverse reactions to athlete scandals depend on their attribution patterns and moral reasoning choices.		[Kim, Daehwan] Pukyong Natl Univ, Dept Marine Sports, Daeyeon Campus, Busan, South Korea; [Lee, Joon Sung] Yonsei Univ, Sport Ind Studies, Seoul, South Korea; [Jang, Wonseok (Eric)] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Ko, Yong Jae] Univ Florida, Sport Management, Gainesville, FL USA; [Lee, Joon Sung] Yonsei Univ, Sport Ind Studies, Seoul, South Korea								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000687765700001	66	Article; Article		
J	Peeters, Thomas								Remembering Stefan Kesenne (1950-2021)								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	7			739	743	15270025211039446	10.1177/15270025211039446			OCT 2021	2021	Stefan Kesenne has died on June 21, 2021. Dr Kesenne was an emeritus professor at the University of Antwerp and the University of Leuven. He will be remembered as an inspiring, honest, and courageous man with strong ethical convictions. His groundbreaking research and unwavering support for the academic community will leave a permanent mark on the sports economics research landscape.		[Peeters, Thomas] Tinbergen Inst, ECASE, Erasmus Sch Econ, Dept Appl Econ, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Peeters, Thomas] Erasmus Res Inst Management ERIM, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Peeters, Thomas] Tinbergen Inst, ECASE, Erasmus Sch Econ, Dept Appl Econ, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Peeters, Thomas] Erasmus Res Inst Management ERIM, Rotterdam, Netherlands								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000687360000001	10	Article; Article		
J	Senisik, Seckin; Koyagasioglu, Ogun; Denerel, Nevzad								Vitamin D levels on sports injuries in outdoor and indoor athletes: a cross-sectional study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	2			164	170		10.1080/00913847.2021.1969217			MAR 4 2022	2022	Objective Having vitamin D levels within normal limits is important for bone and muscle health and its deficiency may increase the risk of injury. The aim of this cross-sectional study was to investigate whether vitamin D levels are different in indoor and outdoor athletes and its levels increase the risk of injury. Material and Methods Serum vitamin D levels were measured in Caucasian adolescent athletes, who admitted to the sports medicine polyclinic due to a routine health check or injury. The study was carried out at 38 degrees 26 ' north latitude in Izmir between June and September 2019. After the physical examination of the injured athletes, the diagnoses were made accompanied by the findings obtained by imaging methods in cases of necessity. Results A total of 256 athletes, including swimmers (n = 87), basketball players (n = 104), and football (n = 65) players aged 13.2 (+/- 2.2) years, were investigated. The average serum vitamin D (25(OH)D) level in athletes was 29.2 (+/- 10.0) ng/mL (6.0-66.0 ng/mL). Forty-six of all athletes (18%) had vitamin D deficiency, with a mean value of 15.7 (+/- 4.0) ng/mL, and 93 of them (36.3%) had vitamin D deficiency with a mean value of 25.2 (+/- 2.4) ng/mL. While vitamin D levels were significantly higher in football players (32 ng/mL) than in other athletes (p < 0.05), it was similar in basketball players (27 ng/mL) and swimmers (26 ng/mL) (p > 0.05). Vitamin D levels (26 ng/mL) of the injured athletes were significantly lower than those of the non-injured athletes (30 ng/mL) (p = 0.001). Bone injuries were significantly related to Vitamin D levels (p < 0.001) but not with muscle injuries (p > 0.05). Conclusion Frequency of vitamin D deficiency and insufficiency is higher in indoor athletes andis especially associated with risk of bone injuries . In order to examine the effect of vitamin D level on bone mineral density, comprehensive prospective studies are required.		[Senisik, Seckin] Ege Univ, Dept Sports Med, Fac Med, Izmir, Turkey; [Koyagasioglu, Ogun] Kayseri City Training & Res Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Kayseri, Turkey; [Denerel, Nevzad] Hlth Team Sports Med Clin, Nicosia, Cyprus; [Koyagasioglu, Ogun] Kayseri City Training & Res Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Kayseri, Turkey								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000687582200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Suzovic, Dejan; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro								The load-velocity profiles of three upper-body pushing exercises in men and women								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	6			693	705		10.1080/14763141.2019.1597155			AUG 18 2021	2021	This study aimed to explore the differences in the load-velocity profile between three upper-body pushing exercises in men and women. The load-velocity profiles (from 20% to 100% of the one-repetition maximum [1RM] in 5% increments) of 24 sport sciences students (12 men) were randomly tested during the horizontal bench press (HBP), inclined bench press (IBP) and seated military press (SMP) exercises. The 1RM was higher for the HBP (men: 94.2 +/- 14.6 kg; women: 45.4 +/- 10.1 kg), followed by the IBP (men: 87.7 +/- 11.6 kg; women: 41.6 +/- 6.6 kg), and finally the SMP (men: 67.4 +/- 7.8 kg; women: 37.3 +/- 6.3 kg). The mean test velocity (i.e., averaged velocity of all loads) and the slope of the load-velocity profile were significantly different between exercises (SMP > IBP > HBP) and sexes (men > women). The correlations between the exercises were very high for the individual 1RM values (r range = 0.714-0.982), but lower correlations were observed for the mean test velocity (r range = 0.237-0.766) slope of the load-velocity profile (r range = 0.018-0.721), and velocity of the 1RM (r range = 0.004-0.446). These results confirm that men present higher velocities at low relative loads (i.e., %1RM) compared to women during upper-body pushing exercises.		[Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Suzovic, Dejan] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Res Ctr, Belgrade, Serbia; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile								63							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000683582300002	26	Article; Article		
J	Schleichardt, Axel; Badura, Marko; Lehmann, Frank; Ueberschaer, Olaf								Comparison of force-velocity profiles of the leg-extensors for elite athletes in the throwing events relating to gender, age and event								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	6			720	736		10.1080/14763141.2019.1598479			AUG 18 2021	2021	Strength capabilities of the leg-extending muscles play an important role in athletic throwing events, where a high momentum must be transferred to the throwing device. The objective of this study was to quantify the force-velocity profiles of the leg-extending muscles considering gender, age and event. The leg-extending forces of 143 elite-athletes (59 females, 84 males) of the athletic throwing events were measured during isokinetic leg press tasks at four speeds. The maxima of force, power and contraction velocity of a knee-extending model muscle could be determined by means of a scalable geometric model and linear fitting. This method makes different groups of athletes comparable. Furthermore, the individually achieved release speeds were measured in a field test. Female and male throwers showed a different development of force-velocity profiles during their maturation process. For the men the development is more speed-oriented. We identified shot putters and javelin throwers to be the athletes with the highest leg-extending power. The importance of leg-extending muscle strength for the complex field performance for the throwing events was confirmed. The presented approach allows to give support in controlling and guiding of leg-extension strength training for both different stages of maturing and varying throwing events.		[Schleichardt, Axel; Lehmann, Frank; Ueberschaer, Olaf] Inst Appl Training Sci, Leipzig, Germany; [Badura, Marko] German Athlet Federat, Head Coach Throwing Events, Darmstadt, Germany; [Schleichardt, Axel] Inst Appl Training Sci, Leipzig, Germany								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000683582300003	39	Article; Article		
J	Damberg, Svenja								Predicting future use intention of fitness apps among fitness app users in the United Kingdom: the role of health consciousness								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	2			369	384		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2021-0013			APR 5 2022	2022	Purpose This study replicates and extends the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology (UTAUT2) to explain the drivers of future use intention of fitness apps among users. It extends existing theory by investigating continuance usage and adding health consciousness as a driver; an extension, which has implications for future studies on emerging technologies in the health care sector and beyond. Design/methodology/approach Building on the UTAUT2, the author built a path model of future app-use intention. A survey involving 591 respondents from the United Kingdom was conducted, and the data was analyzed using partial least squares structural equation modeling. Findings The results of this study confirm that five drivers explain future use intention, namely habit, perceived playfulness, health consciousness, perceived performance and price value. These findings have implications for sports marketing theory and practice, as well as for policymakers, in that health consciousness is important for fitness app adoption, which in turn has repercussions for entire health care systems. Originality/value This study makes two main contributions. It extends technology acceptance theory by using a sample of users to explain future use intention of fitness apps and adds the construct health consciousness as a nontechnological element of the continuance usage of fitness apps to the model. The result is a path model that confirms the importance of personal health consciousness and potential generalizability to future health industry technologies with further implications for sports marketing management theory and practice.		[Damberg, Svenja] Hamburg Univ Technol, Inst Human Resource Management & Organizat, Hamburg, Germany; [Damberg, Svenja] Hamburg Univ Technol, Inst Human Resource Management & Organizat, Hamburg, Germany								46							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000686208600001	62	Article; Article		
J	Matos, Rui; Monteiro, Diogo; Rebelo-Goncalves, Ricardo; Coelho, Luis; Salvador, Rogerio; Antunes, Raul; Mendes, Diogo; Amaro, Nuno								Wall Drop Punt Kick & Catch: Contributions towards the creation of a new gross manipulative coordination test								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			590	598	17479541211037556	10.1177/17479541211037556			JUN 2022	2022	This study aimed to search for age and sex differences on a manipulative eye-segmental (hand and foot) coordination task. It represents the first step towards a possible creation of a manipulative eye-hand and eye-foot coordination test that may be used in motor competence test batteries. One hundred and sixty-eight children (85 boys and 83 girls), with a mean age of 12.79 years old (+/- 1.56) were assessed. Subjects had 30 seconds to achieve as many ball impacts as possible on a front wall (two meters apart), following a drop punt kick, rebound on the wall and catch sequence. Compared to girls', boys' performance was significantly better (p < .001) on each studied age (10, 11, 13 and 14), with large effect sizes (all four Cohen's d values over 1.30). Besides, 10 and 11 years-old subjects' performance, both in boys and in girls, was significantly lower than their 13 and 14 years-old subjects' counterparts (p < .001, except for the comparison between 13 and 14 years-old subjects, on girls, where p < .01). All related effect sizes were large (all Cohen's d values over 1.03). Results confirm literature, as boys' performance on this manipulative task was significantly better than girls' one. The results seem to be promising about the possible use of the task in question as an eye-hand and eye-foot coordination test in future. Further research needs to be performed, namely aiming its validation (testing its reliability and concurrent validity).		[Matos, Rui; Monteiro, Diogo; Rebelo-Goncalves, Ricardo; Coelho, Luis; Salvador, Rogerio; Antunes, Raul; Mendes, Diogo; Amaro, Nuno] ESECS Polytech Leiria, Leiria, Portugal; [Matos, Rui; Coelho, Luis; Salvador, Rogerio; Antunes, Raul; Mendes, Diogo; Amaro, Nuno] IPSantarem IPLeiria, Life Qual Res Ctr CIEQV, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Rebelo-Goncalves, Ricardo] Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, CIDAF Res Unit Sport & Phys Act, Coimbra, Portugal; [Antunes, Raul] Polytech Leiria, Ctr Innovat Care & Hlth Technol CiTechCare, Leiria, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Inst Politecn Santarem, Escola Super Desporto Rio Maior, Av Dr Mario Soares 110, P-2040413 Rio Maior, Santarem, Portugal								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000684879900001	53	Article; Article		
J	Meyer, F.; Kocbach, J.; Tjonnas, J.; Seeberg, T. M.; Austeng, A.; Sandbakk, O.; Danielsen, J.								Temporal and kinematic patterns distinguishing the G2 from the G4 skating sub-technique								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2021.1959948				2021	In cross-country ski skating, both the G2 and G4 sub-techniques involve one pole push for every second ski push but are used at largely different speed-slope ranges. The aim of this study was to compare temporal and kinematic patterns between G2 and G4 at both identical and different speed-slope conditions. A mixed model was used to analyse spatio-temporal parameters, while a combination of dynamic time warping and statistical parametric mapping was used to compare time traces. Main spatio-temporal parameters, such as cycle time, ski contact time and swing time, differed between G2 and G4 (all p < 0.01). Moreover, two forward and more pronounced acceleration phases of the centre of mass (CoM) were visible in G4 while only one acceleration phase was present in G2. The more continuous propulsion in G2 allows for maintaining a more constant speed at steep slopes and low speeds where this sub-technique is preferred. In contrast, the achievement of high speeds while skiing on flatter terrain seem to require more dynamic motion with shorter, more explosive propulsion periods allowed for in G4. In conclusion, G2 and G4 are two unique movements as characterised by fundamentally different CoM motion and should be denoted as two different sub-techniques.		[Meyer, F.; Austeng, A.] Univ Oslo, Dept Informat, Digital Signal Proc Grp, Oslo, Norway; [Kocbach, J.; Sandbakk, O.; Danielsen, J.] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Ctr Elite Sports Res, Dept Neuromed & Movement Sci, Trondheim, Norway; [Tjonnas, J.] SINTEF Digital, Math & Cybernet, Oslo, Norway; [Seeberg, T. M.] SINTEF Digital, Smart Sensor Syst, Oslo, Norway; [Meyer, F.] Univ Oslo, Dept Informat, Digital Signal Proc Grp, Oslo, Norway								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000684736900001	32	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Petach, Luke; Rumbaugh, Dustin								Are You Ready for Some Football? Estimating the Effect of American Football Season on Labor Supply in the United States								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	8			893	920	15270025211024649	10.1177/15270025211024649			DEC 2021	2021	American football season reduces the Monday labor hours of employed men by two-thirds of an hour. A similar effect is found for Friday labor hours. We term these effects the "hangover effect" and "happy hour effect." Consistent with a wide class of labor market models, the labor supply effect varies over the business cycle, increasing in expansions. The hangover effect implies an intertemporal elasticity of labor supply on the order of 0.014. Evaluated at the median hourly wage, our estimates imply an annual economic cost of foregone earnings associated with football season in the neighborhood of $5.06 billion.		[Petach, Luke; Rumbaugh, Dustin] Belmont Univ, Jack C Massey Coll Business, 1900 Belmont Blvd, Nashville, TN 37212 USA; [Petach, Luke] Belmont Univ, Jack C Massey Coll Business, 1900 Belmont Blvd, Nashville, TN 37212 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000684657900001	28	Article; Article		
J	Bolt, Ruben; Heuvelmans, Pieter; Benjaminse, Anne; Robinson, Mark A.; Gokeler, Alli								An ecological dynamics approach to ACL injury risk research: a current opinion								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1640	1650		10.1080/14763141.2021.1960419			OCT 2 2024	2024	Research of non-contact anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) inj1ury risk aims to identify modifiable risk factors that are linked to the mechanisms of injury. Information from these studies is then used in the development of injury prevention programmes. However, ACL injury risk research often leans towards methods with three limitations: 1) a poor preservation of the athlete-environment relationship that limits the generalisability of results, 2) the use of a strictly biomechanical approach to injury causation that is incomplete for the description of injury mechanisms, 3) and a reductionist analysis that neglects profound information regarding human movement. This current opinion proposes three principles from an ecological dynamics perspective that address these limitations. First, it is argued that, to improve the generalisability of findings, research requires a well-preserved athlete-environment relationship. Second, the merit of including behaviour and the playing situation in the model of injury causation is presented. Third, this paper advocates that research benefits from conducting non-reductionist analysis (i.e., more holistic) that provides profound information regarding human movement. Together, these principles facilitate an ecological dynamics approach to injury risk research that helps to expand our understanding of injury mechanisms and thus contributes to the development of preventative measures.		[Bolt, Ruben; Heuvelmans, Pieter; Benjaminse, Anne] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Benjaminse, Anne] Hanze Univ Groningen, Sch Sport Studies, Groningen, Netherlands; [Robinson, Mark A.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Fac Sci, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Gokeler, Alli] Paderborn Univ, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Exercise Sci & Neurosci Unit, Paderborn, Germany; [Gokeler, Alli] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Amsterdam Movement Sci,Med Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gokeler, Alli] OCON Ctr Orthopaed Surg & Sports Med, Dept Sports Med, Hengelo, Netherlands; [Gokeler, Alli] Paderborn Univ, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Exercise Sci & Neurosci Unit, Paderborn, Germany; [Gokeler, Alli] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Amsterdam Movement Sci,Med Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gokeler, Alli] OCON Ctr Orthopaed Surg & Sports Med, Dept Sports Med, Hengelo, Netherlands								41							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000683617900001	68	Article; Article		
J	Rezaeeshirazi, Reza								Aerobic Versus Resistance Training: Leptin and Metabolic Parameters Improvement in Type 2 Diabetes Obese Men								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			537	547		10.1080/02701367.2021.1875111			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: The purpose of the research was to determine the changes in metabolic parameters, leptin, and irisin levels after aerobic and resistance training in type-2 diabetes obese men. Methods: Forty-five participants in the age range of 17-25 years were randomized into three groups: aerobic training (AT), resistance training (RT), and control (CO). All training sessions were fulfilled 4 days per week for two months. The aerobic training began with intensity of 65% of the maximum aerobic power and finished with 90%. The resistance program started with 50% of one-repetition maximum and reached 70% in the 8th week. Results: Factorial analysis of variance and Bonferroni post-hoc test revealed significant decreases in leptin (p = .043), fasting blood sugar (FBS) (p = .023), insulin (p = .001), homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) (p = .022) in AT compared with CO and insulin (p = .006) in AT compared with RT. The change of percent body fat (PBF) was positively correlated only with change of HOMA-IR in AT group (p = .032) at p < .05. Conclusion: The result suggests that, compared to resistance training, aerobic training can control metabolic situations such as insulin resistance through the leptin hormone function, and not irisin in type-2 diabetes obese men.		[Rezaeeshirazi, Reza] Islamic Azad Univ, Aliabad Katoul, Golestan, Iran; [Rezaeeshirazi, Reza] Islamic Azad Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Aliabad Katoul Branch, 272 East Shariati, Aliabad Katoul 4971744697, Golestan, Iran								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000684443500001	67	Article; Article		
J	Zuckerman, Scott L.; Kerolus, Mena G.; Buchanan, Ian A.; Ha, Alex S.; Gillespie, Anton; Cerpa, Meghan; Leung, Eric; Lehman, Ronald A., Jr.								Lumbar discectomies in elite rowers: presentation, operative treatment, and return to play								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	5			414	418		10.1080/00913847.2021.1948309			SEP 3 2022	2022	Objective In a cohort of elite rowers requiring lumbar spine surgery, we report information regarding: (1) presentation, (2) operative treatment, and (3) return to play (RTP). Methods All competitive rowers undergoing spine surgery at a single academic institution from 2015 to 2020 were analyzed. Three rowers underwent spine surgery during the allotted time period. Demographic, clinical, operative, and RTP data was recorded. Each athlete's self-reported level of effort/performance was assessed before and after surgery. First RTP was defined as the time of initial return to rowing activities, and full RTP was defined as the time of unrestricted return to rowing activities. Descriptive statistics were performed. Results The three collegiate rowers ranged from 20- to 21-year-old, each with L5/S1 disc herniations. Preoperative pain levels ranged from 8 to 10, and inciting injury events included back squats, front squats, and rowing during the 'finish' stage. Each athlete underwent a minimally invasive, unilateral L5/S1 decompression, partial medial facetectomy, and partial discectomy with microscopic-assistance. First RTP ranged from 4-6 months, with full RTP at 6-8 months. Pain dissipated to the 0-1 range at full RTP. Final effort/performance improved from 10-60% mid-injury to 90-100% at full RTP. Each athlete's 2000m row time showed a decline mid-injury and an improvement to at or within 10 s of their pre-injury time. Conclusions Drawing from three collegiate rowers who underwent lumbar decompression surgery, each athlete successfully returned to rowing, with initial RTP in the 4-6 months range and full RTP in the 6-8 months range. Performance levels rebounded to near or better than pre-injury performance. The results of this small case series warrant replication in larger, multi-institutional samples.		[Zuckerman, Scott L.; Kerolus, Mena G.; Buchanan, Ian A.; Ha, Alex S.; Gillespie, Anton; Cerpa, Meghan; Leung, Eric; Lehman, Ronald A., Jr.] Columbia Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Med Ctr, Spine Hosp,New York Presbyterian, New York, NY 10032 USA; [Zuckerman, Scott L.] Columbia Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Med Ctr, Spine Hosp,New York Presbyterian, New York, NY 10032 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000683289200001	16	Article; Article		
J	Rodrigues, Filipe; Mageau, Genevieve A.; Lemelin, Emilie; Teixeira, Diogo; Vitorino, Anabela; Cid, Luis; Monteiro, Diogo								Life satisfaction of Paralympians: The role of needs satisfaction and passion								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			510	518	17479541211036224	10.1177/17479541211036224			JUN 2022	2022	The current study examined the possible role of basic psychological needs and passion in Paralympians' life satisfaction. A mediational model was tested where autonomy, competence and relatedness were hypothesized to be linked to athlete life satisfaction via harmonious and obsessive passion. The sample comprised 91 Portuguese Paralympians aged between 18 and 59 years (M = 31.01; SD = 3.78). Athletes completed self-reports of needs satisfaction in their sport, passion towards their sport, and general life satisfaction. Perceptions of competence and relatedness were associated with harmonious passion (beta = .37, p > .01; beta = .21, p > .05, respectively), while perceptions of autonomy were associated with obsessive passion (beta = .39, p > .05). Additionally, harmonious passion, but not obsessive passion, was associated with life satisfaction (beta = .40, p > .01), and only the indirect effect from competence to life satisfaction, via harmonious passion, was significant. These results suggest that feeling autonomous may not necessarily translate into more harmonious passionate engagement but is associated with higher levels of obsessive passion. In contrast, competence and relatedness appear to play an important role in the life of athletes who experience a more harmonious passion towards their sport practice. Perceptions of mastery and competence, as well as sport-related social connections could be important to consider improving the lives of athletes with Paralympic experience.		[Rodrigues, Filipe; Vitorino, Anabela; Cid, Luis] Sport Sci Sch Rio Maior ESDRM Ipsantarem, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Rodrigues, Filipe] Life Qual Res Ctr CIEQV, Santarem, Portugal; [Mageau, Genevieve A.; Lemelin, Emilie] Univ Montreal, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Teixeira, Diogo] Univ Lusofona, Lisbon, Portugal; [Vitorino, Anabela; Cid, Luis; Monteiro, Diogo] Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Res Ctr Sport, Vila Real, Portugal; [Monteiro, Diogo] Polytech Leiria, ESECS, Leiria, Portugal; [Rodrigues, Filipe] Av Dr Mario Soares 110, P-2040413 Rio Maior, Portugal								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000683930600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Bampouras, Theodoros M.; Wilson, Andrew J.; Papadopoulos, Konstantinos								Upper limb muscle strength and knee frontal plane projection angle asymmetries in female water-polo players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1455	1470		10.1080/14763141.2021.1956577			OCT 2 2024	2024	Water-polo players frequently perform overhead throws that could result in shoulder imbalances. For overhead throws, execution of the 'eggbeater kick' (cyclical movement of the legs) is required to lift the body out of the water. Although a symmetrical action, inter-limb differences in task execution could lead to knee frontal plane projection (FPPA) differences. The present study examined imbalances shoulder and knee FPPA in female players. Eighteen competitive female field players (24.1 +/- 5.5 years, 1.68 +/- 0.06 m, 72.9 +/- 13.3 kg) had their shoulder strength assessed in a shot-mimicking position with a portable dynamometer, standing and seated (isolating the shoulder contribution). Anterior: posterior and shooting: non-shooting shoulder comparison were made. Additionally, players performed a drop jump. Knee FPPA was recorded from digitising and comparing the frames just before landing and at stance phase. During standing, players exhibited higher shooting: non-shooting asymmetry (p = 0.032) in the anterior contraction direction, while during seated the shooting shoulder anterior: posterior asymmetry was higher (p = 0.032). Interlimb knee FPPA asymmetry was higher in the stance phase (p = 0.02). Despite the overhead throwing and egg-beater demands impacting differently on each limb, considerable asymmetries do not develop, suggesting the overall training requirements (e.g. swimming, resistance training) were sufficient to maintain the asymmetry within desirable limits.		[Bampouras, Theodoros M.] Univ Lancaster, Fac Hlth & Med, Lancaster Med Sch, Lancaster, England; [Wilson, Andrew J.] Univ Cumbria, Inst Hlth, Lancaster, England; [Papadopoulos, Konstantinos] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sports Inst, London, England; [Bampouras, Theodoros M.] Univ Lancaster, Fac Hlth & Med, Lancaster Med Sch, Lancaster, England								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000681181500001	38	Article; Article		
J	Murugappan, Kadhiresan R.; Reale, Reid; Baribeau, Vincent; O'Gara, Brian P.; Mueller, Ariel; Sarge, Todd								Rapid weight gain following weight cutting in male professional boxers								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	6			494	500		10.1080/00913847.2021.1960780			NOV 2 2022	2022	Objectives Weight classifications are used in boxing and other combat sports to match opponents of similar size. Professional boxers commonly engage in a potentially harmful practice known as rapid weight loss or 'weight cutting' to make weight the day prior to competition before rehydrating and refueling. This investigation describes the prevalence and magnitude of rapid weight gain in boxers following weigh-in as well as differences in practice with respect to weight class and promotion. Methods This analysis describes official weight data from male professional boxers collected by the California State Athletic Commission between 2015 and 2018. A total of 399 athletes were included in the study. Results Among included athletes, 389 (97.5%) athletes gained weight between official weigh-in and competition. Total absolute body mass gained was 4.4 +/- 2.2 kg corresponding to a total relative body mass gain of 7.2 +/- 3.5%. Boxers competing in international promotions gained significantly more body mass than regional competitors (8.0 +/- 3.0% vs. 6.6 +/- 3.7%; p < 0.001). In total, 82 (20.6%) athletes gained 10% body mass or more before competition. More international competitors reached this 10% threshold than regional competitors (25.3% vs. 17.4%; p = 0.03). Conclusions These findings indicate high prevalence and magnitude of RWG in professional boxing, particularly in boxers competing in elite international promotions.		[Murugappan, Kadhiresan R.; Baribeau, Vincent; O'Gara, Brian P.; Sarge, Todd] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Anesthesia Crit Care & Pain Med, Beth Israel Deaconess Med Ctr BIDMC, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Reale, Reid] UFC Performance Inst, Performance Nutr Dept, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Mueller, Ariel] Harvard Med Sch, Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Anesthesia Crit Care & Pain Med, Boston, MA USA; [Murugappan, Kadhiresan R.] Beth Israel Deaconess Med Ctr, Dept Anesthesiol Crit Care & Pain Med, 330 Brookline Ave, Boston, MA 02215 USA								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000682496700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Wei-Han; Chiu, Yu-Cheng; Liu, Chiang; Chan, Ming-Sheng; Fiolo, Nicholas J.; Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang								A biomechanical comparison of different baseball batting training methods								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			599	608	17479541211036232	10.1177/17479541211036232			JUN 2022	2022	This study compared the kinematic parameters of swing mechanics under toss batting (TB), motor imagery (MI), video projection (VP), and virtual reality (VR) conditions during baseball batting. Nine college baseball players performed three swings to hit a tossed ball under TB conditions or a virtual ball under MI, VP, and VR conditions. The results revealed that upper trunk backward rotation was smaller in the loading phase under the VP and VR conditions than under the TB and MI conditions and lower under VR than under the VP condition (p < 0.05) except at the load event. Pelvic backward rotation was smaller under the VR condition than under the TB, MI, and VP conditions (p < 0.05). In the swing phase, TB demonstrated higher peak velocity at the head of the bat, lead elbow extension, and pelvis and upper trunk rotation than did MI, VP, and VR, whereas VP also demonstrated higher peak velocity in pelvic forward rotation than did VR (p < 0.05). In summary, VR demonstrates a more realistic response in the loading phase and reduced pelvic backward rotation but lower movement velocities. Coaches should pay attention to movement differences between swing conditions when arranging a swing training plan.		[Chen, Wei-Han; Chiu, Yu-Cheng; Fiolo, Nicholas J.; Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, 88,Sec 4,Ting Zhou Rd, Taipei 11677, Taiwan; [Chen, Wei-Han; Liu, Chiang] Univ Taipei, Grad Inst Sports Equipment Technol, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chan, Ming-Sheng] San Francisco Giants Baseball Club, San Francisco, CA USA; [Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, 88,Sec 4,Ting Zhou Rd, Taipei 11677, Taiwan								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000683920300001	33	Article; Article		
J	Cho, Hyeonah; Ryu, Hyunyoung; Song, Minseok								Pass2vec: Analyzing soccer players' passing style using deep learning								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			355	365	17479541211033078	10.1177/17479541211033078			APR 2022	2022	The aim of this research was to analyze the player's pass style with enhanced accuracy using the deep learning technique. We proposed Pass2vec, a passing style descriptor that can characterize each player's passing style by combining detailed information on passes. Pass data was extracted from the ball event data from five European football leagues in the 2017-2018 season, which was divided into training and test set. The information on location, length, and direction of passes was combined using Convolutional Autoencoder. As a result, pass vectors were generated for each player. We verified the method with the player retrieval task, which successfully retrieved 76.5% of all players in the top-20 with the descriptor and the result outperformed previous methods. Also, player similarity analysis confirmed the resemblance of players passes on three representative cases, showing the actual application and practical use of the method. The results prove that this novel method for characterizing player's styles with improved accuracy will enable us to understand passing better for player training and recruitment.		[Cho, Hyeonah; Ryu, Hyunyoung; Song, Minseok] Pohang Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Ind & Management Engn, 77 Cheongamro, Pohang, South Korea; [Ryu, Hyunyoung; Song, Minseok] Pohang Univ Sci & Technol, Open Innovat Bigdata Ctr, Pohang, South Korea; [Song, Minseok] Pohang Univ Sci & Technol, Korea Sport Ind Dev Inst, Pohang, South Korea; [Song, Minseok] Pohang Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Ind & Management Engn, 77 Cheongamro, Pohang, South Korea								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000681432700001	42	Article; Article		
J	Coutinho, Diogo; Goncalves, Bruno; Santos, Sara; Travassos, Bruno; Folgado, Hugo; Sampaio, Jaime								Exploring how limiting the number of ball touches during small-sided games affects youth football players' performance across different age groups								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			545	557	17479541211037001	10.1177/17479541211037001			JUN 2022	2022	This study explored how the number of allowed ball touches per player possession affected the performance of different age groups (U9, U11, U13, U15, U17 and U19) during a Gk + 4vs4+Gk small-sided games. Each day, players randomly performed the following three conditions (for a total of 6 days): i) free-play (FP); ii) maximum of 2 touches (2 T); iii) 1 touch (1 T). Players' positional data was used to compute time-motion and positional-related variables, while video analysis was used to capture technical performance. In general, no effects were identified in relation to the players distances (team centroid, opponents' centroid, nearest teammate, and nearest opponent). There were small to moderate decreases in the longitudinal synchronization while playing with 1 T and 2 T in the U9 and U17, but a moderate increase in the U15. There was a general decrease in the distance covered and distance covered while running (small to moderate effects) when playing with limited touches in all age groups. Limiting the touches promoted small to moderate increases in the number of successful passes in the U9, U15, and U17 and a general increase in unsuccessful actions. Overall, playing with limited touches emphasized the passing skill while it also contributed to more unsuccessful actions and lower physical demands. As so, coaches may use the 2 T in young age groups (U9-U13) as they seem less able to successfully cope with 1 T, while using 1 T in older age groups due to their higher ability to interact with environmental information.		[Coutinho, Diogo; Santos, Sara; Sampaio, Jaime] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Vila Real, Portugal; [Coutinho, Diogo; Santos, Sara; Travassos, Bruno; Sampaio, Jaime] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CreativeLab Res Community, Vila Real, Portugal; [Coutinho, Diogo] Univ Inst Maia ISMAI, Maia, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno; Folgado, Hugo] Univ Evora, Escola Saude & Desenvolvimento Humano, Dept Desporto & Saude, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno; Folgado, Hugo] Univ Evora, Comprehens Hlth Res Ctr CHRC, Evora, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno; Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sports Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Coutinho, Diogo] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci Exercise & Hlth, Vila Real, Portugal; [Coutinho, Diogo] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CreativeLab Res Community, Vila Real, Portugal; [Coutinho, Diogo] Univ Inst Maia ISMAI, Maia, Portugal								28							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000681442600001	45	Article; Article		
J	Orringer, Matthew J.; Pandya, Nirav K.								Acutely increased workload is correlated with significant injuries among national basketball association players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	3			568	575	17479541211037037	10.1177/17479541211037037			JUN 2022	2022	Background Particularly at the level of professional athletics, injury prevention is of critical importance. We hypothesized that elevated in-game statistics over a period of 3-10 games places increased cumulative stress on players' joints and thus predisposes players to injury. Methods Utilizing a comprehensive database of National Basketball Association (NBA) player statistics, we identified 34 NBA players who suffered significant in-game injuries during the 2016-2019 seasons, leading them to miss at least ten consecutive games. We then assessed several potential markers of increased player workload during the cumulative one, three, five, and ten games directly preceding the injuries and compared them to season averages for each player. Results Increased minutes played per game over the cumulative three (4.9% increase, p = 0.04), five (5.8% increase, p = 0.004), and ten (4.0% increase, p = 0.02) games directly preceding injury were closely related to increased injury occurrence. In-game activity level as measured by statistics such as points scored and rebounds per game did not relate to injury occurrence. Conclusion In addition to injury mitigation practices currently used by NBA teams, maintaining players' minutes played per game constant over time may be an additional effective strategy to be used by coaches and general managers in the future.		[Orringer, Matthew J.] Univ Calif San Francisco, Sch Med, 533 Parnassus Ave, San Francisco, CA 94143 USA; [Pandya, Nirav K.] Univ Calif San Francisco, Dept Orthoped Surg, San Francisco, CA USA; [Orringer, Matthew J.] Univ Calif San Francisco, Sch Med, 533 Parnassus Ave, San Francisco, CA 94143 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000680154800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Ovretveit, Karsten; Laginestra, Fabio Giuseppe								Mechanisms and Trainability of Peripheral Fatigue in Grappling								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	4			9	18		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000594			AUG 2021	2021	Grappling is an ancient form of unarmed combat that has evolved into several distinct combat sports, such as wrestling, judo, and Brazilian jiu-jitsu. Despite different styles and rulesets, these sports share several fundamental principles, such as the use of grips to control the opponent. Unsurprisingly, there is a discrepancy in grip strength parameters between grapplers of varying skill levels, and grip performance is also implicated in competition success. This article explores the mechanistic basis of peripheral fatigue and proposes strength and conditioning strategies aimed at attenuating the grappling-induced decline in force-generating capacity and endurance of the forearms and hands.		[Ovretveit, Karsten] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Publ Hlth & Nursing, Trondheim, Norway; [Laginestra, Fabio Giuseppe] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Ovretveit, Karsten] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Publ Hlth & Nursing, Trondheim, Norway								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711786300002	63	Article; Article		
J	Romero, Manny; Alvar, Brent								A New Model for Optimizing Firefighter Human Performance								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	4			19	31		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000601			AUG 2021	2021	Firefighting is a profession that has the potential to be extremely demanding, both physically and mentally. More specifically, these tactical personnel must be physically fit to perform their occupational requirements, all while they are exposed to daily stressors. This is likely to include everything from physical strain and shift work to interrupted sleep and witnessing potentially traumatizing events. Failure to prepare and mitigate these occupational demands can have long-lasting implications to overall performance as well as health and wellness. Unfortunately, many of these elements often go unaddressed. As such, considerations for collaborative and overarching cross-disciplinary allied health teams should be made. Human performance optimization (HPO) is a model that has been successfully adopted by the U.S. military to enhance the overarching health, wellness, and performance of soldiers. This article proposes the utilization of a similar HPO model by providing a rationale for how it can be used to reduce premature morbidity and mortality, as well as increasing overall readiness and resilience within the firefighting profession.		[Romero, Manny] Navy Installat Command, Navy Fitness, San Diego, CA 92136 USA; [Alvar, Brent] Point Loma Nazarene Univ, Dept Kinesiol, San Diego, CA USA; [Romero, Manny] Navy Installat Command, Navy Fitness, San Diego, CA 92136 USA								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711786300003	82	Article; Article		
J	Lepkowski, Mark; Leiting, Keith A.; Koch, Alexander J.								Practical Considerations and Applications of Postactivation Performance Enhancement in Group Training: Delayed Performance Enhancing Triplexes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	4			62	67		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000600			AUG 2021	2021	Athletes may increase power output through eliciting postactivation performance enhancement (PAPE). Muscle force and power may be increased during PAPE by coupling of 2 exercises, termed a "strength-power potentiating complex" (SPPC). Implementing SPPCs in the field is complicated by the need to use rest periods of several minutes in duration, which is impractical when training large numbers of athletes simultaneously within a short time. We propose delayed performance enhancing triplexes as a solution: which involve inserting an accessory exercise in between a heavy resistance exercise and a plyometric movement, which allows for training to continue to flow without interruption.		[Lepkowski, Mark] Queens Univ, Charlotte, NC USA; [Leiting, Keith A.; Koch, Alexander J.] Lenoir Rhyne Univ, Exercise Sci Program, Hickory, NC 28601 USA; [Koch, Alexander J.] Lenoir Rhyne Univ, Exercise Sci Program, Hickory, NC 28601 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711786300007	24	Article; Article		
J	Ogborn, Dan								Optimizing Exercise Selection for the Asymmetric Athlete After Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	4			105	114		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000605			AUG 2021	2021	Persistent deficits in quadriceps strength occur after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction and should be addressed to facilitate safe return to sport. Asymmetric movement patterns that shield the affected knee by shifting demands to the unaffected lower extremity, or other joints within the affected limb, may limit the ability of common strength training exercises to effectively mitigate quadriceps weakness. A multifaceted approach focusing on the early restoration of symmetrical loading during the squat, programming isolated knee extensions, and varying exercise selection to include split-stance positions, such as the split-squat and lunge, may result in the successful restoration of quadriceps strength after ACL reconstruction.		[Ogborn, Dan] Pan Clin Fdn, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Ogborn, Dan] Univ Manitoba, Rady Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Ogborn, Dan] Pan Clin Fdn, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Ogborn, Dan] Univ Manitoba, Rady Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Winnipeg, MB, Canada								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711786300011	92	Article; Article		
J	Chavda, Shyam; Hill, Mark; Martin, Stuart; Swisher, Anna; Haff, G. Gregory; Turner, Anthony N.								Weightlifting: An Applied Method of Technical Analysis								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	4			32	42		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000614			AUG 2021	2021	Weightlifting is a highly technical sport that is governed by interactions of phases to optimize the load lifted. Given the technicality of the snatch and the clean and jerk, understanding key stable components to identify errors and better prescribe relevant exercises are warranted. The aim of this article is to present an applied method of analysis for coaches that considers the biomechanical underpinnings of optimal technique through stable interactions of the kinetics and kinematics of the lifter and barbell at key phases of the lift. This article will also look to discuss variable components that may differentiate between athletes and therefore provide a foundation in what to identify when coaching weightlifting to optimize load lifted while allowing for individual variances.		[Chavda, Shyam; Turner, Anthony N.] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sports Inst, London, England; [Chavda, Shyam; Hill, Mark; Martin, Stuart] British Weightlifting, Powerbase Gym, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Swisher, Anna] USA Weightlifting, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Manchester, England; [Chavda, Shyam] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sports Inst, London, England; [Chavda, Shyam] British Weightlifting, Powerbase Gym, Loughborough, Leics, England								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711786300004	64	Article; Article		
J	Boden, Barry P.; Isaacs, David J.; Ahmed, Anwar E.; Anderson, Scott A.								Epidemiology of Exertional Rhabdomyolysis in the United States: Analysis of NEISS Database 2000 to 2019								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	6			486	493		10.1080/00913847.2021.1956288			NOV 2 2022	2022	Objective There have been numerous case series of exertional rhabdomyolysis (ER) but no comprehensive studies investigating the incidence of ER in the civilian athletic population in the United States (US). Methods A retrospective review of patients with ER presenting to emergency departments in the US over a 20-year period between 2000 and 2019 was performed using the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database. Results The national estimate of hospital visits in the US for ER during the 20-year period was 40,654 (0.66 per 100,000 population). There was a 10-fold increase in the incidence of ER from the first to the second decade. The odds of ER were 3.77 (95% CI 3.67-3.86, P < .0001) times higher for males (31,921, 78.5%, 1.06 per 100,000) than females (8,733, 21.5%, 0.28 per 100,000) and 3.82 (95% CI 3.71-3.93, P < .0001) higher in African Americans (33.6, 0.93 per 100,000) than white patients (53%, 0.24 per 100,000). American football (3,064, 7.5%) was responsible for 43.9% of the sports-induced ER cases. The majority (67.3%) of ER cases occurred between the ages of 16 and 35 years old. The majority of patients required hospitalization (26,550, 65.3%). Conclusions The number of ER cases presenting to emergency departments in the US increased from 2000-2009 to 2010-2019. Young males and African Americans are at highest risk of ER. There was a high rate of hospitalization.		[Boden, Barry P.; Isaacs, David J.] Orthopaed Ctr, Rockville, MD 20850 USA; [Ahmed, Anwar E.] Uniformed Serv Univ Hlth Sci, Dept Prevent Med & Biostat, Hlth Sci, Bethesda, MD USA; [Anderson, Scott A.] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Athlet, Norman, OK 73019 USA; [Boden, Barry P.] Orthopaed Ctr, Rockville, MD 20850 USA								16							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000679581400001	44	Article; Article		
J	Radcliffe, Ceridwen R.; Coltman, Celeste E.; Spratford, Wayne A.								The effect of fatigue on peak Achilles tendon force in Irish dancing-specific landing tasks								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1592	1605		10.1080/14763141.2021.1951826			OCT 2 2024	2024	Achilles tendinopathy is prevalent among Irish dancers, believed to be due to aesthetic technical requirements and high-impact landing tasks. However, the peak Achilles tendon force during Irish dancing-specific landing tasks has not been quantified. Furthermore, the influence of fatigue is unclear. This study aimed to quantify the peak Achilles tendon force during three common Irish dancing landing tasks and investigate the effects of fatigue on this force. Twelve nationally competitive Irish dancers completed the landing tasks prior to and following a fatigue protocol. A Vicon motion analysis system and AMTI force plates were used to calculate sagittal plane ankle joint kinematics during landing to estimate peak Achilles tendon force. Three independent measures (Rating-of-Fatigue scale, Flight time: Contraction during a counter movement jump and jump height during the landing trials) were used to evaluate participant fatigue between conditions. Results revealed a significant difference in peak Achilles tendon force between the three landing tasks, however, no significant difference was observed between pre- and post-fatigue. Further research is required to investigate the effects of the landing technique used in Irish Dancing on peak Achilles tendon force with the aim to reduce peak Achilles tendon force and the risk of developing Achilles tendinopathy.		[Radcliffe, Ceridwen R.; Coltman, Celeste E.; Spratford, Wayne A.] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Radcliffe, Ceridwen R.; Coltman, Celeste E.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Fac Hlth, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Radcliffe, Ceridwen R.] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Radcliffe, Ceridwen R.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Fac Hlth, Canberra, ACT, Australia								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000678395500001	37	Article; Article		
J	Burton, Sophie; Vicinanza, Domenico; Exell, Timothy; Newell, Karl M.; Irwin, Gareth; Williams, Genevieve K. R.								Attractor dynamics of elite performance: the high bar longswing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1443	1454		10.1080/14763141.2021.1954236			OCT 2 2024	2024	Combining biomechanics and motor control, the aim of this study was to investigate the limit cycle dynamics during the high bar longswing across the UK elite gymnastics pathway age groupings. Senior, junior and development gymnasts (N = 30) performed three sets of eight consecutive longswings on the high bar. The centre of mass motion was examined through Poincare plots and recurrence quantification analysis exploring the limit cycle dynamics of the longswing. Close to one-dimensional limit cycles were displayed for the senior (correlation dimension (CD) = 1.17 +/- .08), junior (CD = 1.26 +/- .08) and development gymnasts (CD = 1.33 +/- .14). Senior elite gymnasts displayed increased recurrence characteristics in addition to longer longswing duration (p < .01) and lower radial angular velocity of the mass centre (p < .01). All groups of gymnasts had highly recurrent and predictable limit cycle characteristics. The findings of this research support the postulation that the further practice, experience and individual development associated with the senior gymnasts contribute to the refinement of the longswing from a nonlinear dynamics perspective. These findings support the idea of functional task decomposition informing the understanding of skill and influencing coaches' decisions around skill development and physical preparation.		[Burton, Sophie; Irwin, Gareth] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Vicinanza, Domenico] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Dept Comp & Technol, Cambridge, England; [Exell, Timothy] Univ Portsmouth, Sch Sport Hlth & Exercise, Portsmouth, Hants, England; [Newell, Karl M.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Williams, Genevieve K. R.] Univ Exeter, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Exeter, Devon, England; [Burton, Sophie] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000679065100001	58	Article; Article		
J	Skejo, Sebastian Deisting; Liaghat, Behnam; Jakobsen, Claes Christian; Moller, Merete; Bencke, Jesper; Papi, Giovanni; Kunwald, Nikolaj Pelle; Sorensen, Henrik								Quantifying throwing load in handball: a method for measuring the number of throws								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1578	1591		10.1080/14763141.2021.1951345			OCT 2 2024	2024	Shoulder injuries are a common problem in handball. One likely cause of such injuries is excessive throwing. However, it is difficult to measure the number of player throws in large cohort studies using existing methods accurately. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to develop and validate a method for identifying overhead throws using a low-cost inertial measurement unit (IMU) worn on the wrist. In a two-stage approach, we developed a threshold-based automatic identification method for overhead throws in a laboratory study using the IMU. Subsequently, we validated the suggested thresholds in a field setting by comparing throws identified by the threshold-method to throws identified by video recordings of handball practices. The best set of threshold values resulted in a per-player median sensitivity of 100% (range: 84-100%) and a median positive predictive value (PPV) of 96% (range: 86-100%) in the development study. In the validation study, the per-player median sensitivity dropped to 78% sensitivity (range: 52-91%), while the per-player median PPV dropped to 79% (range: 47-90%). The proposed method is a promising method for automatically identifying handball throws in a cheap and feasible way.		[Skejo, Sebastian Deisting; Papi, Giovanni; Kunwald, Nikolaj Pelle; Sorensen, Henrik] Aarhus Univ, Dept Publ Hlth, Aarhus, Denmark; [Liaghat, Behnam; Moller, Merete] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Odense, Denmark; [Jakobsen, Claes Christian] CCC Athlet ApS, Odense, Denmark; [Bencke, Jesper] Copenhagen Univ Hosp Amager Hvidovre, Human Movement Anal Lab, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Hvidovre, Denmark; [Skejo, Sebastian Deisting] Aarhus Univ, Dept Publ Hlth, Aarhus, Denmark								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000677264500001	23	Article; Article		
J	Lamberti, Giuseppe; Rialp, Josep; Simon, Alexandra								Antecedents of satisfaction and loyalty in different spectator tribes in a football context								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	2			295	310		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2020-0210			APR 5 2022	2022	Purpose Extending existing research in a football context, this study explores how image and service quality influence spectator tribe satisfaction and loyalty and variations in behaviors depending on age, gender and emotional involvement. Design/methodology/approach Spectators aged 18 years and older who attended Barcelona Football Club home La Liga matches were sampled. Partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) was used to analyze the model, and hybrid multigroup PLS-SEM was used to explore observed heterogeneity. Findings Image and service quality both influence spectator satisfaction and loyalty. Satisfaction and loyalty are associated differently with three tribes: a nonpassionate tribe characterized by low emotional involvement and younger and older passionate tribes composed of emotionally involved spectators aged 30 years old, respectively. Research limitations/implications This study's results contribute to strengthening the suitability of PLS-SEM and multigroup in sport management, in particular for analyzing the behavior of specific groups of football spectators. Originality/value The findings of this study underline image and service quality as crucial to football spectator satisfaction and loyalty, with emotional involvement and age defining different consumer tribes as potential targets for marketing purposes.		[Lamberti, Giuseppe; Rialp, Josep; Simon, Alexandra] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Business, Bellaterra, Spain; [Lamberti, Giuseppe] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Business, Bellaterra, Spain								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000676193000001	61	Article; Article		
J	Cameron, Ben; Burma, Joel S.; Jasinovic, Tin; Lun, Victor; van Rassel, Cody R.; Sutter, Bonnie; Wiley, J. Preston; Schneider, Kathryn J.								One-year stability of preseason Sport Concussion Assessment Tool 5 (SCAT5) values in university level collision and combative sport athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	6			478	485		10.1080/00913847.2021.1955225			NOV 2 2022	2022	Objectives To determine the stability of the Sport Concussion Assessment Tool (SCAT) 5 between consecutive seasons in uninjured collision and combative varsity athletes. Methods Thirty-six athletes (19 females) were recruited to participate (wrestling [n = 12], rugby [n = 14], and hockey [n = 10]). The SCAT5 was administration at the start of the 2017 and 2018 seasons. Median baseline demographics for 2017 were as follows: age (19 years [range: 17-24 years]), height (174 cm [range: 149-195 cm]), and weight (76 kg [range: 57-118 kg]). Outcome metrics included subcomponents of the SCAT5: symptom reporting, standardized assessment of concussion (SAC), neurological screening, and balance performance measured with the modified balance error scoring system (mBESS). Wilcoxon signed-rank tests and Cronbach's alpha (alpha) values were calculated to determine the stability between consecutive years for the SCAT5 variables in the same cohort of athletes. Bonferroni corrections were applied for Wilcoxon signed-rank tests, where alpha = 0.006 (0.05/9). Results Between the 2017 and 2018 seasons, no differences were noted in symptom reporting (p = 0.14), SAC (p = 0.32), neurological screening (p = 0.98), and balance performance on the mBESS (p = 0.01). The Cronbach's alpha displayed unacceptable to questionable levels of within-subject stability (range: alpha = 0.34-0.70) for all subcomponents, except months in reverse order (alpha = 0.92). Conclusions While no statistical differences were present for all SCAT5 subcomponent metrics between 2017 and 2018 baselines, all but one displayed unacceptable to questionable stability (alpha <= 0.70) when retested one year later. Further research is needed to understand the appropriate time duration baseline SCAT5 values can reliably be utilized within longitudinal studies; as well as the normal variation of SCAT5 reporting/scoring.		[Cameron, Ben; Jasinovic, Tin; Lun, Victor; Wiley, J. Preston] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Dept Family Med, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Cameron, Ben; Lun, Victor; Sutter, Bonnie; Wiley, J. Preston; Schneider, Kathryn J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Med Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Burma, Joel S.; van Rassel, Cody R.; Wiley, J. Preston; Schneider, Kathryn J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Burma, Joel S.; Schneider, Kathryn J.] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Hotchkiss Brain Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Schneider, Kathryn J.] Alberta Childrens Hosp Res Inst, Cumming Sch Med, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Schneider, Kathryn J.] Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Fac Kinesiol, KNB 3300D,2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000675091800001	35	Article; Article		
J	Kingery, Matthew T.; Kouk, Shalen; Anil, Utkarsh; McCafferty, Joseph; Lemos, Connor; Gelber, Jonathan; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem								Performance and return to sport after injury in professional mixed martial arts								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	5			435	439		10.1080/00913847.2021.1953358			SEP 3 2022	2022	Background Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) is an increasingly popular combat sport incorporating striking and grappling that results in a high incidence of injuries. Objectives The purpose of this study was to analyze the impact of injuries on the return to sport and post-injury performance of professional MMA athletes. We hypothesize that increased age is associated with lower probability of return to sport and diminished post-injury performance. Methods Publicly available data (obtained from ESPN.com/MMA, UFC.com, Rotowire.com/MMA) from professional MMA fighters who resigned from fight cards due to injury from 2012 to 2014 were analyzed. Injury history, match history and outcomes, and duration of time to return to professional fighting were recorded and compared to a cohort consisting of uninjured opponents. Results 454 fighters were included in the analysis. The mean age at the time of injury was 30.0 +/- 3.9 years. 94.4% of injured athletes were able to return to professional MMA, and athletes required a mean duration of 6.8 +/- 6.7 months between injury and their next professional fight (range 0.3-58 months). There was no significant difference in winning percentage in the post-injury period between the injured group and the uninjured group (p = 0.691). Increased age at the time of injury was associated with the odds of being able to return to professional fighting after injury (OR = 0.822, p = 0.001). Conclusion In this analysis of publicly available injury data on MMA fighters, there was a high rate of return to professional sport and no evidence of an associated decline in performance following major injury requiring withdrawal from a fight card. Older age at the time of injury was associated with decreased odds of being able to return to professional fighting. With increasing popularity of combat sports, sport-specific prognostic information will help guide and treat specific injuries associated with MMA participation.		[Kingery, Matthew T.; Kouk, Shalen; Anil, Utkarsh; McCafferty, Joseph; Lemos, Connor; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem] New York Univ Langone Hlth, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY 10016 USA; [Gelber, Jonathan] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Elite Sports Med, Farmington, CT USA; [Kingery, Matthew T.] New York Univ Langone Hlth, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY 10016 USA								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000674814500001	25	Article; Article		
J	Cogley, David; Byrne, Paul; Halstead, Joseph; Coyle, Colin								Responses to a combined dynamic stretching and antagonist static stretching warm-up protocol on isokinetic leg extension performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1540	1551		10.1080/14763141.2021.1944290			OCT 2 2024	2024	Antagonist static-stretching and dynamic-stretching are both effective at improving muscular performance. The purpose of this study was to investigate responses to a dynamic stretching warm-up protocol, a static-stretching warm-up protocol and a combined dynamic-stretching and antagonist static stretching warm-up protocol on isokinetic leg extension performance. Twelve participants completed a baseline (PRE) isokinetic knee-extension test at 60 degrees.s(-1) and 300 degrees.s(-1), following a 5 min warm-up on a cycle ergometer. Subsequently, participants completed the following warm-up protocols randomly over a three-week period: dynamic-stretching (DS); antagonist muscle static-stretching (AMSS) and dynamic followed by antagonist muscle static-stretching (DS-AMSS). A repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) was conducted to determine where significant differences existed for peak torque, total work, average power, time-to-peak-torque and relative peak torque between warm-up protocols. DS-AMSS facilitated a significantly higher peak torque and total work compared to PRE, DS and AMSS at 60 degrees.s(-1) and 300 degrees.s(-1) P < 0.05, respectively). DS-AMSS caused significantly greater relative peak torque than PRE for 60 degrees.s(-1) and 300 degrees.s(-1) (P < 0.05). DS-AMSS resulted in significantly reduced time-to-peak-torque and increased average power at 60 degrees.s(-1) compared to PRE, DS and AMSS (P < 0.05). DS-AMSS and AMSS resulted in a significant reduction in time-to-peak-torque and increased average power compared to the PRE and DS (P < 0.05) at 300 degrees.s(-1).		[Cogley, David; Byrne, Paul; Coyle, Colin] Inst Technol Carlow, Dept Sci & Hlth, Carlow, Ireland; [Cogley, David; Halstead, Joseph] Ultimate Performance Personal Training Ltd, Dept Res & Dev, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Cogley, David] Inst Technol Carlow, Dept Sci & Hlth, Carlow, Ireland; [Cogley, David] Ultimate Performance Personal Training Ltd, Dept Res & Dev, Manchester, Lancs, England								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000673820300001	36	Article; Article		
J	Cunniffe, Eoin; Connor, Mark; Beato, Marco; Grainger, Adam; McConnell, Walter; McCarthy Persson, Ulrik; Delahunt, Eamonn; Boreham, Colin; Blake, Catherine								The influence of possession status on the physical output of male international hockey players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			412	422	17479541211033958	10.1177/17479541211033958			APR 2022	2022	The aims of this investigation were to describe the physical output of hockey relative to possession status, and to identify differences in physical output during each possession category with respect of match result. Ten international matches were analysed utilizing Sportscode to identify in and not in possession instances. 24 players (age 26 +/- 4) wore a 10 Hz GPS device to track physical output. Linear Mixed Models and post hoc pairwise comparisons were utilised to compare the physical output in each possession category within each position and relative to match result. Significant main effects were found for possession status on several physical output metrics (p <= 0.05). For all positions except forwards, not in possession instances were more physically demanding than in possession instances for metrics such as relative total distance, explosive distance, and high-speed running (>5.5 m.s(-1)). No significant difference was identified between possession category physical output aligned with match result (p > 0.05). This study shows for the first time that not in possession instances were more physically demanding than in possession instances for defenders, outside backs and midfielders. For not in possession instances, relative total distance and high-speed running was, on average, 13% and 41% higher compared to in possession instances. Furthermore, there was no statistical difference in physical output for any position during each possession category relative to the match result.		[Cunniffe, Eoin; McCarthy Persson, Ulrik; Delahunt, Eamonn; Boreham, Colin; Blake, Catherine] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth & Sports Sci, Belfield, Ireland; [Cunniffe, Eoin; Grainger, Adam] Hockey Ireland, Belfield, Ireland; [Connor, Mark; Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Ipswich, Suffolk, England; [Connor, Mark] Univ Coll Dublin, Smurfit Sch Business, Nat Comp Res & Applicat Grp, Belfield, Ireland; [McConnell, Walter] Backfour Analyt, Clontarf, Ireland; [Cunniffe, Eoin] Hockey Ireland, Belfield, Ireland								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000675173700001	54	Article; Article		
J	Salters, Danielle; Rios, P. Camila; Scharoun Benson, Sara M.								Instructors' Perspectives of Social and Motor Influences on Participation in Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			467	478		10.1080/02701367.2020.1864260			JUL 3 2022	2022	Participation is key to childhood development and is essential for health and well-being; yet children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) participate less in social and physical activities compared to their typically developing peers and little is known about how social and motor challenges impact participation patterns. Purpose: The current research garnered experiential insights of the quality and quantity of participation, through the lens of instructors (N = 9) working with a child or children with ASD. Method: Semi-structured qualitative interviews were conducted to capture a comprehensive and informative profile of how social and motor functioning of children with ASD influence involvement in social and physical activities. Results: Thematic analysis revealed consistent viewpoints in four main areas: (1) Viewpoints extend beyond the World Health Organization definition of participation; (2) Participation depends on who is involved; (3) Although motivation, confidence, and competence in social/motor domains underlie participation, social challenges were perceived as the greatest barrier; (4) While acknowledging the benefits of participation, it is necessary to be cognizant of the required supports. Throughout these themes, the notion of heterogeneity was made very clear. Conclusion: Collectively, perspectives offer descriptive insight which may be useful when designing opportunities for participation in social and physical activities among children with ASD.		[Salters, Danielle; Rios, P. Camila; Scharoun Benson, Sara M.] Univ Windsor, Windsor, ON, Canada; [Scharoun Benson, Sara M.] Univ Windsor, Dept Kinesiol, 401 Sunset Ave, Windsor, ON N9B 3P4, Canada								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000672215600001	58	Article; Article		
J	Starrett, Angela; Pennell, Adam; Irvin, Matthew J.; Taunton Miedema, Sally; Howard-Smith, Candice; Goodway, Jacqueline D.; Stodden, David F.; Brian, Ali								An Examination of Motor Competence Profiles in Preschool Children: A Latent Profile Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	3			437	446		10.1080/02701367.2020.1859440			JUL 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Identifying profiles of preschoolers' motor competence (MC) is essential for providing accurate and targeted intervention. However, little is known regarding children's MC profiles, more specifically how skills may present in unique clusters. The purposes of the study were to explore MC profiles of U.S. children ages 3-6 years, quantify the uniqueness of these profiles, and examine differences by age, gender, race, geographic region, socioeconomic status, and Body Mass Index z-scores. Methods: Participants included children (N = 582, n(girls) = 296) aged 3-6 years (M-age = 4.97, SD = .75) enrolled in one of seven early childhood education centers (Alabama, Louisiana, Ohio [x 2], South Carolina [x 2], Texas). Each child's MC was assessed with the 12 skills comprising the TGMD-2. Latent profile analysis was performed using the 12 MC skills. Results: Five profiles of MC emerged, three of which show developing MC but in varying combinations. Wald tests revealed possible MC advantages for preschool children who are older, boys, reside in an urban region, and are of higher socioeconomic status, but only for the proficient MC profile. Conclusion: By uncovering five unique latent MC profiles, professionals should consider the presentation/origins of each profile and use such knowledge to create targeted, individualized MC interventions in American preschoolers. From a research perspective, the implications of this study suggest that researchers should consider person-oriented approaches examining individual skill scores (vs. summed subscale scores) whenever possible.		[Starrett, Angela; Irvin, Matthew J.; Taunton Miedema, Sally; Stodden, David F.; Brian, Ali] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Pennell, Adam] Pepperdine Univ, Malibu, CA USA; [Howard-Smith, Candice] Troy Univ, Troy, AL USA; [Goodway, Jacqueline D.] Ohio State Univ, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Starrett, Angela] Univ South Carolina, Child Dev Res Ctr, Columbia, SC 29201 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000670831000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Eberman, L. E.								Transgender healthcare and quality of life is under attack in the US								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	5			378	379		10.1080/00913847.2021.1945900			SEP 3 2022	2022			[Eberman, L. E.] Indiana State Univ, Dept Appl Med & Rehabil, Terre Haute, IN 47809 USA; [Eberman, L. E.] Indiana State Univ, 567 N5th St, Terre Haute, IN 47809 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000670801500001	8	Article; Article		
J	Bradbury, John Charles								Financial Returns in Major League Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	8			921	945	15270025211022733	10.1177/15270025211022733			DEC 2021	2021	Major League Soccer (MLS) is the top-tier professional soccer league serving the United States and Canada. This study examines factors hypothesized to impact consumer demand for professional sports on team revenue in this nascent league. The estimates are consistent with positive returns to performance, novelty effects from newer teams, and varying impacts from roster quality and composition. Other factors hypothesized to be important for MLS teams (e.g., stadium quality and market demographics) are not associated with team revenue. The estimates are similar to findings in other major North American sports leagues, even though MLS operates with a unique single-entity ownership structure that has the potential to disincentivize individual team investments by league owners.		[Bradbury, John Charles] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Econ Finance & Quantitat Anal, 460 Parliament Garden Way NW, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA; [Bradbury, John Charles] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Econ Finance & Quantitat Anal, 460 Parliament Garden Way NW, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000672900900001	40	Article; Article		
J	Fischer, Kai; Haucap, Justus								Does Crowd Support Drive the Home Advantage in Professional Football? Evidence from German Ghost Games during the COVID-19 Pandemic								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	8			982	1008	15270025211026552	10.1177/15270025211026552			DEC 2021	2021	This paper examines the relation between crowd support and home advantage in men's professional football in making use of a unique "natural experiment" induced by restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic: the so-called ghost games in the top three German football divisions at the end of the 2019/2020 season. We find that there is a reduced home advantage in the first division, whereas no change is observed in the second and third divisions. Our regression analysis indicates that the decrease in the home advantage and the heterogeneity across divisions are not sensitive to a variety of performance, location, and team covariates and are best explained through the lower occupancy rate in the stadia. Hence, the decrease in occupancy to zero at the ghost games has been less dramatic for teams that have been used to low occupancy rates. We cannot find strong evidence for a change in referee behavior or teams' tactics as main impact channels of occupancy rates on the home advantage. Hence, we argue that psychological reasons are of higher importance.		[Fischer, Kai; Haucap, Justus] Univ Dusseldorf, DICE, Univ Str 1, D-40225 Dusseldorf, Germany; [Haucap, Justus] Univ Dusseldorf, DICE, Univ Str 1, D-40225 Dusseldorf, Germany								84							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000672925600001	60	Article; Article		
J	Moran, Jason; Cervera, Victor; Jones, Benjamin; Hope, Edward; Drury, Ben; Sandercock, Gavin								Can discreet performance banding, as compared to bio-banding, discriminate technical skills in male adolescent soccer players? A preliminary investigation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			325	333	17479541211031170	10.1177/17479541211031170			APR 2022	2022	Maturation-related changes in body dimensions and performance can lead to physical mismatches and drop out from youth sport. Here, we propose a new method termed 'discreet performance banding' (DPB). We aimed to determine if dividing youths by actual physical performance of a discreet skill or ability ('change or direction' [COD] ability) could discriminate between the most and least skilled players better than a marker of implied performance, such as an assessment of biological maturation. 182 male academy Spanish soccer players (age: 13-18 years height: 143 to 188 cm; mass: 32.3 to 81.4 kg) were divided into maturation groups (Tanner stages 2 through 5) and COD groups ('fast', 'intermediate' and 'slow'). Players' skills (passing, shooting, ball control) were evaluated on a six-point scale with a value of '1' considered 'very bad' and a value of '6' as 'very good'. When divided by maturity status, analyses revealed no significant differences between groups in soccer skill. However, when divided into COD groups, the analyses revealed significant differences between the fast and intermediate players ([p < 0.001] favouring the fast group) and between the intermediate and slow players ([p < 0.026] favouring the slow group). There was no significant difference in skill between the fast and slow groups, though the fast group demonstrated a higher skill level as indicated by a small effect size. Fast players were more skilful than both the intermediate and slower players, indicating that COD status can be a differentiating factor between players of different skill levels. DPB could be used to equalise competition in youth sport and to enhance the overall level of enjoyment that youths derive from engagement in sport.		[Moran, Jason; Jones, Benjamin; Hope, Edward; Sandercock, Gavin] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, Essex, England; [Cervera, Victor] Watford Football Club, Watford, England; [Drury, Ben] Hartpury Univ, Dept Sport, Gloucester, England; [Moran, Jason] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, Essex, England								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000672887500001	42	Article; Article		
J	Laakso, Timo; Davids, Keith; Luhtanen, Pekka; Liukkonen, Jarmo; Travassos, Bruno								How football team composition constrains emergent individual and collective tactical behaviours: Effects of player roles in creating different landscapes for shared affordances in small-sided and conditioned games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			346	354	17479541211030076	10.1177/17479541211030076			APR 2022	2022	The aim of the present study was to examine how team composition of players with different roles constrains individual and collective tactical behaviours, and ball possession effectiveness, during competitive 3 vs 3 small-sided and conditioned games (SSCGs) in youth soccer players. Fifteen male players (under 15 yrs, mean age 13.2 +/- 1.03 years, mean years of practice: 4.2 +/- 1.10 years) from the same club participated in this study. For analysis purposes, on advice from the coaching staff, participants were categorised according to their main team performance role, resulting in sub-samples of 5 defenders (centre-backs = 2 and full- backs = 3), 7 midfielders (central midfielders = 3 and wide midfielders = 4) and 3 attackers (forwards). In order to assess participant tactical behaviours, a notational analysis system was created with four categories: i) team behaviours, ii) individual players' offensive actions, iii) individual players' defensive actions, and iv), ball possession effectiveness. Analysis of players' offensive actions revealed that the team composed only of midfielders revealed a higher frequency of diagonal and vertical passes in relation to the attackers' team. In offensive individual actions, the attackers' team revealed more dribbles in relation to the teams of defenders and midfielders. Analysis of ball possession effectiveness revealed that the team of defenders achieved higher values of shots on goal compared to the team of midfielders. These findings exemplified how playing role constrains the emergence of different collective behaviours and individual actions in 3 vs 3 SSCGs.		[Laakso, Timo; Liukkonen, Jarmo] Univ Jyvaskyla, Dept Sport Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Human Performance Res Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Luhtanen, Pekka] Football Assoc Finland, Helsinki, Finland; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, CreativeLab, Covilha, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oeiras, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Ciencias Desporto, P-6201001 Covilha, Portugal								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000672887300001	33	Article; Article		
J	Stockbower, Kathryn A.; Howell, David R.; Seehusen, Corrine N.; Armento, Aubrey M.; Walker, Gregory A.								Sport specialization, sleep, fatigue, and psychosocial ratings: do highly specialized athletes differ from their less specialized peers?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	5			400	405		10.1080/00913847.2021.1947736			SEP 3 2022	2022	Objectives: To determine if sleep quality, fatigue, anxiety, depressive symptoms, or perceptions of sport participation differ between high-, moderate-, and low-specialized high school athletes with or without prior injuries. Methods: During pre-participation physical examinations (PPE), high school athletes completed questionnaires on sport specialization level, history of time-loss orthopedic injury, perceptions of sport participation, as well as sleep quality (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI)), fatigue, anxiety, and depressive symptoms (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS (R))). Athletes were grouped according to sport specialization level and history of prior time-loss orthopedic injury. Results: A total of 186 athletes completed the study: 49% (n = 92; mean age = 15.3 +/- 2.0 yrs; 50% female) were low specialized, 34% (n = 64; mean age = 15.3 +/- 1.3 yrs; 47% female) were moderately specialized, and 16% (n = 30; mean age = 15.7 +/- 1.1 yrs; 57% female) were highly specialized. Groups were similar for demographics, training volume, and injury history. Compared to the moderate-specialization group, highly specialized athletes reported higher levels of fatigue (3.1 +/- 3.7 vs. 1.5 +/- 2.2; p = 0.02), anxiety (3.6 +/- 4.1 vs. 1.8 +/- 2.6; p = 0.02), and depressive symptoms (2.4 +/- 4.0 vs. 0.8 +/- 2.0; p = 0.02). No differences in psychometric ratings, sleep quality, or perceptions of sport participation were observed between the low/moderate- or low/high-specialization groups. We did not observe any significant differences between groups who did and did not report a history of prior timeloss orthopedic injury. Conclusions: Highly specialized high school athletes report higher levels of fatigue, more anxiety symptoms, and more depressive symptoms than their moderately specialized peers, despite no differences in training volume or injury history. Low specialized athletes did not differ from moderately specialized or highly specialized athletes in the aforementioned domains, and there were no differences in sleep quality across specialization groups. These findings add to the current body of literature on early sport specialization by illustrating the distinctive psychosocial implications of sport specialization and demonstrating the need for further prospective research.		[Stockbower, Kathryn A.; Howell, David R.; Seehusen, Corrine N.; Armento, Aubrey M.; Walker, Gregory A.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Stockbower, Kathryn A.; Howell, David R.; Armento, Aubrey M.; Walker, Gregory A.] Univ Colorado, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Stockbower, Kathryn A.] Metropolitan Pediat, 9300 SE 91st Ave,Suite 200, Happy Valley, OR 97086 USA								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000669727500001	40	Article; Article		
J	Berndt, Adele								The brand persona of a football manager - the case of Arsene Wenger								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	1			209	226		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2021-0018			JAN 11 2022	2022	Purpose Sport is an important economic activity, and understanding the role of teams and managers is necessary, yet managers - specifically their brand personas - have been the subject of limited research. The purpose of this research is to explore the brand persona of a football manager, using Arsene Wenger as a case. Design/methodology/approach Due to the exploratory nature of the study, qualitative methods were used to explore the brand-building activity. Media reports and images that centred on Arsene Wenger's words covering a three-year period were analysed. In total, 1364 articles and 23 images were analysed in NVivo, using both a priori and emergent codes. Findings The findings show the construction of the brand persona in three main dimensions pertinent to his role as a manager. The first is the performance in the managerial role in which Arsene Wenger is appointed, the second is associated with the person (including emotions and self-expression) and the third is the context (i.e. football) in which the manager operates. Research limitations/implications The research focused on one manager while he was managing a premier league club and is limited to England. Practical implications While proposing a theoretical model, this study proposes football clubs understand a manager's persona in relation to the club's brand and the interactive effect. The support of the club on the persona is also indicated. Originality/value Football managers have received some research attention, but there has been no analysis of their brand personas. This study expands the understanding of the contribution of the manager to the club brand.		[Berndt, Adele] Jonkoping Univ, Media Management & Transformat Ctr, Jonkoping, Sweden; [Berndt, Adele] Univ Pretoria, Gordon Inst Business Sci, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Berndt, Adele] Jonkoping Univ, Media Management & Transformat Ctr, Jonkoping, Sweden; [Berndt, Adele] Univ Pretoria, Gordon Inst Business Sci, Johannesburg, South Africa								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000670344500001	100	Article; Article		
J	Arboix-Alio, Jordi; Bishop, Chris; Benet, Ariadna; Busca, Bernat; Aguilera-Castells, Joan; Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara								Assessing the Magnitude and Direction of Asymmetry in Unilateral Jump and Change of Direction Speed Tasks in Youth Female Team-Sport Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			15	27		10.2478/hukin-2021-0061			JUL 2021	2021	The direction of inter-limb asymmetries and the change of direction (COD) deficit are two aspects that have increased in recent years. The main objective of the present study was to assess the magnitude of neuromuscular asymmetries in an elite youth female team-sports sample and determine its directionality. Secondary objectives were to evaluate the relationship between COD deficit, linear speed and COD time performance. Elite female youth basketball and handball players (n = 33, age = 16 +/- 1.17 y) performed the Single Leg Countermovement Jump in vertical (SLCJ-V), horizontal (SLCJ-H), and lateral (SLCJ-L) directions, the COD and the 10-m sprint. Results showed statistical differences between limbs in all the neuromuscular tests (p < 0.001). The Kappa coefficient showed poor to fair levels of agreement between tasks (K range =-0.087 to 0.233), indicating that asymmetries rarely favoured the same limb between skills. Additionally, small and non-significant correlations were found between the linear sprint capacity and the COD ability. The findings of the present study highlight the independent directionality of asymmetries across tests. The COD deficit does not appear to be much more advantageous than COD total time to measure asymmetry. Practitioners are encouraged to use a fitness testing battery to detect existing side differences and each ability should be specifically trained with functional tasks.		[Arboix-Alio, Jordi; Benet, Ariadna; Busca, Bernat; Aguilera-Castells, Joan; Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Ramon Llull Univ, FPCEE Blanquerna, Dept Sports Sci, Barcelona, Spain; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Benet, Ariadna; Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Catalan Federat Basketball, Segle 21 Female Basketball Team, Esplugas de Llobregat, Spain; [Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Ramon Llull Univ, FCS Blanquerna, Sch Hlth Sci, Barcelona, Spain; [Fort-Vanmeerhaeghe, Azahara] Ramon Llull Univ, FPCEE Blanquerna, C Cister 34, Barcelona 08022, Spain								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100002	59	Article; Article		
J	Garcia, Franc; Castellano, Julen; Reche, Xavier; Vazquez-Guerrero, Jairo								Average Game Physical Demands and the Most Demanding Scenarios of Basketball Competition in Various Age Groups								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			165	174		10.2478/hukin-2021-0070			JUL 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to compare average physical demands and the most demanding 60-s scenarios of basketball match-play between five different age groups. Sixty-four male basketball players from five different age groups were monitored across eight regular-season home games. Physical demands were examined using a local positioning system and included total distance covered, distance >18 km.h(-1), the number of accelerations (>= 2 m.s(-2)) and decelerations (<=-2 m.s(-2)). All four game performance variables increased significantly (58.4 - 639.2%) when calculated with rolling average techniques in comparison to average physical demand values. Furthermore, the current investigation found that while Under-12 presented the highest (r)esult in relative total distance covered (p < .001; effect size = 0.58-2.01), they also showed the lowest values in the most demanding scenarios of match play and small-tomoderate effect sizes compared with their older counterparts. Both average physical demands and the most demanding scenarios presented an increasing tendency with age when distance >18 km.h(-1) in basketball players was assessed. More specifically, the Under-12 age group achieved the lowest values and showed significant differences with the other four teams in both game analysis techniques (p < .001; effect size = 0.53 - 1.32). In conclusion, average game demands are shown to remarkably underestimate the most demanding scenarios of basketball match-play, and there are multiple significant differences between particular age groups.		[Garcia, Franc; Reche, Xavier; Vazquez-Guerrero, Jairo] Futbol Club Barcelona, Sport Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain; [Castellano, Julen] Basque Country Univ UPV EHU, Phys Act & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Garcia, Franc] Avinguda Onze Setembre,S-N,Basketball Facil, Barcelona 08970, Spain								42							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100015	34	Article; Article		
J	Diaz-Garcia, Jesus; Pulido, Juan Jose; Ponce-Bordon, Jose Carlos; Cano-Prado, Carlos; Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel Angel; Garcia-Calvo, Tomils								Coach Encouragement During Soccer Practices Can Influence Players' Mental and Physical Loads								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			276	288		10.2478/hukin-2021-0079			JUL 2021	2021	This study analyzed the influence of the coaches' encouragement on the mental and physical load in soccer practices. The participants were 36 semiprofessional Spanish soccer players (M-age = 22.40; SD = 2.25) belonging to two male teams and one female team. Following the same practices' design and order, two training sessions of each team were completed. In one session, coaches maintained a passive verbal attitude, whereas in the other session, coaches intervened with an active attitude through continuous general encouragement. The mental load and fatigue were measured using self-reported questionnaires (Likert scales), and internal and external physical loads were quantified using the rating of perceived exertion and the Global Position System. A t-test for related samples and magnitude based on an inference spreadsheet was performed. The results demonstrated that mental and internal physical loads increased when coaches participated with active verbal encouragement. Especially, increases in performance satisfaction, mental effort, and RPE values, and decreases in unsafety values were detected due to encouragement interventions. Nevertheless, the external physical load did not show a clear trend. Based on these findings, coaches can use this information to manipulate their verbal encouragement during practices according to their physical and mental objectives with specific soccer strategies.		[Diaz-Garcia, Jesus; Pulido, Juan Jose; Ponce-Bordon, Jose Carlos; Cano-Prado, Carlos; Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel Angel; Garcia-Calvo, Tomils] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Garcia-Calvo, Tomils] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100025	26	Article; Article		
J	Marino, Thomas K.; Coelho, Daniel B.; Lima-Silva, Adriano E.; Bertuzzi, Romulo								MBboard: Validity and Reliability of a New Tool Developed to Evaluate Specific Strength in Rock Climbers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			5	13		10.2478/hukin-2021-0060			JUL 2021	2021	In the present study, we analysed the validity and reliability of a new tool designed to assist the measurement of maximal upper-limb strength in rock climbers in a specific way, named MBboard. The MBboard consists of an artificial small climbing hold affixed to a wooden board, which is connected to any cable-motion strength equipment to determine the maximum dynamic strength (MBboard-1RM). Ten male rock climbers (Rock Climbing Group, RCG = 10) and ten physically active men (Control Group, CG = 10) performed, on three separate occasions, a familiarization session with procedures adopted during MBboard-1RM testing and two experimental trials (i.e., test and retest) to determine the construct validity and reliability of the MBboard during unilateral seated cable row exercise. In the first trial, the electromyographic activity (EMG) was recorded from the flexor digitorum superficialis. The self-reported climbing ability was also recorded. The RCG had superior performance (i.e. 37.5%) and EMG activity (i.e. 51%) in MBboard-1RM testing when compared with the CG (p 0.05). There was a significant correlation between the MBboard-1RM results and climbing ability (r 0.05). Intraclass correlation coefficient analysis revealed good reliability within trials (ICC 0.79, p < 0.05). These findings suggest that the MBboard is a valid and reliable tool to assess rock climbing-specific maximal strength. The validity of MBboard-1RM appears to be related to the finger flexor muscles activation, probably reflecting the specific adaptations resulting from long-term practice of this sport discipline.		[Marino, Thomas K.; Bertuzzi, Romulo] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Endurance Performance Res Grp GEDAE USP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Coelho, Daniel B.] Fed Univ ABC, Ctr Engn Modelling & Appl Social Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lima-Silva, Adriano E.] Technol Fed Univ Parana, Acad Dept Phys Educ DAEFI, Human Performance Res Grp, Curitiba, PR, Brazil; [Bertuzzi, Romulo] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Av Prof Melo Moraes 65, BR-05508030 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Russomanno, Tiago G.; Lam, Hilary; Knopp, Melanie; Huang, Ho; Stadtlander, Timo; Lames, Martin								Within-Match Performance Dynamics - Momentary Strength in Handball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			211	219		10.2478/hukin-2021-0073			JUL 2021	2021	Handball is an Olympic team sport characterized by changes of ball possession, where teams either play on offense or defense. In this paper, we model momentary strength in handball as scoring probabilities based on a double moving average. In this cross-sectional observational study, the aim was to describe the dynamics of momentary strength in handball from both theoretical and practical perspectives. Momentary strength can be used to further characterize the nuances of the sport by identifying different phases in a match. The momentary strength model was applied to the 2019 International Handball Federation (IHF) Men's World Championship. Ninety-six games were analyzed. The results showed that momentary strength could be used to better understand the dynamic interaction process between two teams. The Spearman correlation between the teams' median momentary strength and their final ranks at the Championship was-0.830. Virtually each team faced phases in its matches with a momentary scoring probability lower than 0.10 and with 4 exceptions also higher than 0.90. Twelve out of the 24 teams showed phases with a momentary scoring probability of exactly 0 as well as exactly 1.		[Russomanno, Tiago G.] Univ Brasilia, Lab Teaching Comp Sci Appl Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Russomanno, Tiago G.; Lam, Hilary; Knopp, Melanie; Huang, Ho; Stadtlander, Timo; Lames, Martin] Tech Univ Munich, Chair Performance Anal & Comp Sci Sports, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Munich, Germany; [Russomanno, Tiago G.] Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Uptown Munchen Campus D,Georg Brauchle Ring 60-62, D-80992 Munich, Germany								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100019	34	Article; Article		
J	Baena-Raya, Andres; Garcia-Ortega, Dolores; Sanchez-Lopez, Sergio; Soriano-Maldonado, Alberto; Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro; Rodriguez-Perez, Manuel A.								The Influence of Sprint Mechanical Properties on Change of Direction in Female Futsal Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			221	228		10.2478/hukin-2021-0075			JUL 2021	2021	The aim of the present study was to analyze the association of the sprint force-velocity profile LHzt FV profile] variables with change of direction [COD] performance in female futsal players. Twelve female futsal players (age: 19.83 +/- 4.2 years; body height: 160.75 +/- 8.37 cm; body mass: 57.64 +/- 8.3 kg) volunteered to be evaluated in the following assessments: Hzt FV profile, 505 test, modified 505 test [M505test] and V-cut test. The Spearman's correlation coefficient [r(s)] (p < 0.05) was used to determine the relationship of the mechanical variables of the sprint (maximum power output [P-max], maximum horizontal force production [F-0] and maximum velocity [V-0]) with COD performance. V-0 showed a very large significant association with the 505 test (r(s) = -0.767; 90% CI: (-0.92 to -0.43); p < 0.01) and a large association with the V-cut test (r(s) = -0.641; 90% CI: (-0.86 to -0.21); p < 0.05), whereas P-max was strongly associated with results of the 505 test (r(s) = -0.821; 90% CI: (-0.94 to -0.55); p < 0.01) and largely associated with the V-cut test results (r(s) = -0.596; 90% CI: (-0.84 to -0.14); p < 0.05). In conclusion, maximal power and velocity output during sprinting are determinant factors to successful COD in 180 degrees and 45 degrees cuts, thus, the Hzt FV profile should be assessed in female futsal players to better understand the influence of sprint mechanical properties on COD performance and prescribe individualized training programs.		[Baena-Raya, Andres; Garcia-Ortega, Dolores; Sanchez-Lopez, Sergio; Soriano-Maldonado, Alberto; Rodriguez-Perez, Manuel A.] Univ Almeria, SPORT Res Grp CTS 1024, Fac Educ Sci, CERNEP, Carretera Sacramento S-N, Almeria 04120, Spain; [Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Madrid, Spain; [Sanchez-Lopez, Sergio] Univ Almeria, SPORT Res Grp CTS 1024, Fac Educ Sci, CERNEP, Carretera Sacramento S-N, Almeria 04120, Spain								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100020	31	Article; Article		
J	Iskra, Janusz; Matusinski, Aleksander; Otsuka, Mitsuo; Guex, Kenny J.								Pacing Strategy in Men's 400 m Hurdles Accounting for Temporal and Spatial Characteristics of Elite Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			175	186		10.2478/hukin-2021-0059			JUL 2021	2021	The final result in a 400 m hurdles race (400mH) is relative to the motor preparation, technique of clearing hurdles as well as the adopted strategy of the race, including temporal aspects (split times in particular parts of the race) and spatial elements (the number of strides taken between subsequent hurdles). The objective of the study was to identify an optimal strategy for the 400mH race, including the stride pattern and split times. Data employed for this study were derived from results of 273 races held during the men's finals of international events (Olympic Games, World and European Championships) held from 1968 to 2015. To determine the strategies in the race, three main hurdle sections were identified - 1-4H, 4-7H and 7-10H. In each part, the fast (best results), average and slow (worst results) performing groups of hurdlers were distinguished. The analysis of adopted strategies was carried out taking into account 26 variables (main, basic, temporal and spatial). Basic statistical data, correlations and analysis of variance (ANOVA) were used. Results highlight the use of a variety of strategies, of which selection depends, among others, on body composition and the level of motor abilities (speed, speed endurance and explosive strength), as well as hurdling technique. Especially, the endurance strategy appears to be the most effective one, as it is a characteristic of best performances of many hurdlers. The analysis demonstrates that at the highest sports level the strategy of 400 m hurdles should be analyzed individually.		[Iskra, Janusz] Opole Univ Technol, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Opole, Poland; [Matusinski, Aleksander] Acad Phys Educ, Katowice, Poland; [Otsuka, Mitsuo] Ritsumeikan Univ, Shiga, Japan; [Guex, Kenny J.] Haus Sports, Swiss Athlet, Ittigen, Switzerland; [Guex, Kenny J.] Univ Appl Sci & Arts Western Switzerland HES SO, Sch Hlth Sci HESAV, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Iskra, Janusz] Opole Univ Technol, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Opole, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100016	31	Article; Article		
J	Ficek, Krzysztof; Kedra, Natalia; Skowronek, Radoslaw; Kluczniok, Kamila; Strozik, Magdalena; Gwiazdon, Pawel; Hajduk, Grzegorz								The Fifth Metatarsal Bone Fracture In Athletes - Modalities of Treatment Related to Agility In Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			101	110		10.2478/hukin-2020-0059			JUL 2021	2021	The 5th metatarsal fracture is a common foot fracture which could exclude a player from competition for several months and significantly affect his or her career. This manuscript presents the treatment and rehabilitation of professional soccer players who had acute fractures of the 5th metatarsal bone and a cannulated screw fixation. The main purpose of the analysis was to determine the minimum time necessary for a permanent return to the sport after a 5th metatarsal fracture among professional soccer players. We followed the surgical and rehabilitation path of 21 professional soccer players from the Polish League (Pt and IInd divisions) who suffered from the 5th metatarsal bone fracture. All players underwent standard percutaneous internal fixation with the use of cannulated screws. The total inability to play lasted for 9.2 (+/- 1.86) weeks among players treated only surgically (n = 10), 17.5 (+/- 2.5) weeks in the conservative and later surgery group, excluding players with nonunion (n = 6), and 24.5 (+/- 10.5) weeks for nonunion and switch treatment (n = 4) players. Prompt fracture stabilization surgery is recommended for athletes, enabling the implementation of an aggressive rehabilitation protocol as soon as possible. Early limb loading after surgery (from week 2) does not delay fracture healing or hinder the bone union, thus rehabilitation plays a crucial role in shortening the time of RTP (return to play) and is obligatory for each athlete who undergoes surgical treatment.		[Ficek, Krzysztof; Kedra, Natalia; Skowronek, Radoslaw; Kluczniok, Kamila; Strozik, Magdalena; Gwiazdon, Pawel] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Physiotherapy, Katowice, Poland; [Ficek, Krzysztof; Strozik, Magdalena; Gwiazdon, Pawel; Hajduk, Grzegorz] Dept Sci Innovat & Dev, Bierun, Poland; [Kedra, Natalia; Skowronek, Radoslaw; Kluczniok, Kamila] Galen Rehabil, Bierun, Poland; [Gwiazdon, Pawel] Med Univ Silesia, Fac Pharmaceut Sci Sosnowiec, Dept Biopharm, Katowice, Poland; [Ficek, Krzysztof] Galen Orthopaed, Jerzego 6, PL-43150 Bierun, Poland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100009	37	Article; Article		
J	Pires, Daniel Alvarez; Ugrinowitsch, Herbert								Burnout and Coping Perceptions of Volleyball Players Throughout an Annual Sport Season								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			249	257		10.2478/hukin-2021-0078			JUL 2021	2021	Burnout is a psychological syndrome of reaction to chronic stress that occurs in athletes who feel exhausted by a sport activity that was previously pleasurable and enjoyable. One technique to prevent and control the syndrome is through coping, which is the ability to deal with stressful situations. In contrast to traditional cross-sectional approaches, this study aimed to investigate burnout and coping strategy characteristics over time and to analyze the relationship between burnout dimensions and coping strategies. Fifty-four high-level volleyball athletes (twenty-eight men and twenty-six women, age M = 25.57, SD = 4.72, range 18-35) completed paper-and-pencil measures of burnout and coping four times throughout a sport season. The Friedman test presented a significant increase in the reduced sense of athletic accomplishment (X-2 = 20.58; p < 0.01) and sport devaluation (X-2 = 19.83; p < 0.01) perceptions during the season. However, no coping differences were observed through the longitudinal analysis. Burnout dimensions showed a moderate inverse correlation to confidence/motivation at all measurement points during the season. Overall, the findings suggest that burnout perceptions increase as the season progresses, highlighting the relevance for the periodization of burnout prevention and control.		[Pires, Daniel Alvarez] Fed Univ Para, Sch Phys Educ, Human Movement Sci Grad Program, Campus Castanhal, Castanhal, Para, Brazil; [Ugrinowitsch, Herbert] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Sport Sci Grad Program, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Pires, Daniel Alvarez] Fed Univ Para, Univ Ave S-N, BR-68746360 Castanhal, Para, Brazil								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100023	26	Article; Article		
J	Chappell, Andrew J.; Simper, Trevor N.; Trexler, Eric T.; Helms, Eric R.								Biopsychosocial Effects of Competition Preparation in Natural Bodybuilders								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			259	275		10.2478/hukin-2021-008			JUL 2021	2021	Bodybuilders are judged on the subjective visual assessment of their muscular size, proportion, and leanness. This case series tracked four drug-free bodybuilders (3 male) during the off-season, pre-competition and recovery phases. This study aimed to comprehensively profile key biopsychosocial changes occurring pre/post competition in a group of British natural bodybuilders. We measured: resting metabolic rate (RMR), body composition (via BIA, ultrasound and sum of 7 skinfolds), lipid profiles, fasted glucose, blood pressure, power output (Wingate), grip strength, and carried out psychometric questionnaires (EAT-26, STAI, BUT) over an eight-month period. Mean weight loss from 5 months (5M) to pre-contest (PRE) was 8.6 +/- 4.1 kg, followed by an increase of 7.9 +/- 1.6 kg two months post contest (POST). The mean RMR of the cohort was stable from 1899 +/- 630 kcal (5M) to 1897 +/- 598 kcal (PRE), before decreasing to 1797 +/- 242 kcal (POST). Mean peak power declined from 770 +/- 113.0 w (5M), to 700.0 +/- 134.4 w (PRE), before increasing to 816.0 +/- 116.2 w (POST). Competition dieting had no effect on EAT-26 or BUT scores, suggesting no body dysmorphic or eating disorder concerns, although trait anxiety was elevated in three out of the four participants throughout the observation. Many of the biopsychosocial changes that occur to bodybuilders as they prepare for competition return to baseline measurements 2 months post competition.		[Chappell, Andrew J.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Pharm & Life Sci, Garthdee Rd, Aberdeen AB10 7AQ, Scotland; [Simper, Trevor N.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Dept Food & Nutr, Pond St, Sheffield S1 1WS, S Yorkshire, England; [Trexler, Eric T.] Trexler Fitness LLC, Raleigh, NC USA; [Helms, Eric R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, 17 Antares Pl, Auckland 0632, New Zealand; [Chappell, Andrew J.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Pharm & Life Sci, Garthdee Rd, Aberdeen AB10 7AQ, Scotland								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100024	36	Article; Article		
J	Crespo, Esteban; Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus Juan; Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco; Arellano, Raul								Post-Eccentric Flywheel Underwater Undulatory Swimming Potentiation in Competitive Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			145	154		10.2478/hukin-2021-0068			JUL 2021	2021	Underwater undulatory swimming (UUS) influences overall swimming performance, therefore swimmers should try to maximize it. This research aimed to: 1) assess the effects of an activation protocol based on post-activation performance enhancements upon UUS; and 2) evaluate the differences between males and females. Seventeen competitive swimmers (male = 10; female = 7) participated in a cross-sectional study designed to test performance in UUS at 10 m after a traditional swimming warm-up (TRA) and after adding to the TRA 4 maximal half-squat repetitions on an inertial flywheel device (PAPE). A speedometer and an electronic timing system were used to obtain kinematic variables such as time, frequency and velocity at 10-m, which were processed with MATLAB (R). A paired sample t test was applied to determine the differences of the kinematic variables between the TRA and PAPE. An independent sample t test was used to determine the effects of the PAPE in males and females. Participants reduced the time to cover 10 m after PAPE compared to the TRA (males: 5.77 +/- 0.44 to 5.64 +/- 0.46; females 6.34 +/- 0.80 to 6.09 +/- 0.66; p < 0.05). In addition, trends towards improvements in UUS velocity were obtained for males and females. However, push-off velocity and frequency showed a different tendency between genders (p < 0.05). In conclusion, the warm-up including repetitions on the flywheel device improved UUS performance. Some differences were obtained between genders after PAPE. Further research should confirm if the benefits obtained after the eccentric overload would depend either on gender or on other components such as fiber type composition.		[Crespo, Esteban; Ruiz-Navarro, Jesus Juan; Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco; Arellano, Raul] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Fac Sport Sci, Aquat Lab, Carretera Alfacar S-N, Granada 18011, Spain; [Cuenca-Fernandez, Francisco] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Fac Sport Sci, Aquat Lab, Carretera Alfacar S-N, Granada 18011, Spain								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100013	31	Article; Article		
J	Lannerstrom, Johan; Nilsson, Lina C.; Cardinale, Daniele A.; Bjorklund, Glenn; Larsen, Filip J.								Effects of Plyometric Training on Soft and Hard Surfaces for Improving Running Economy								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			187	196		10.2478/hukin-2021-0071			JUL 2021	2021	The present study investigated the effects of plyometric jump training on hard and soft surfaces on running economy (RE), maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), running performance and the rate of force development in orienteers. Nineteen orienteers (11 women and 8 men, body mass 61.1 +/- 7.3 kg, age 21 +/- 5.8 yrs) were randomly stratified based on sex, age, VO2max and RE to plyometric jumping training (8 sessions over 4 weeks) on either a hard or a soft surface. RE, VO2max and running performance were assessed on a treadmill and outdoor on- and off-trail loops. Moreover, ground reaction forces and force development were assessed during a one leg drop jump test. The training intervention led to an overall 2-7% improvement in treadmill and off-trail RE, independent of the jumping surface and running velocity assessed. These improvements were not explained by force development during drop jump tests, which remained unchanged following the intervention. The changes in time-trial performance were associated with changes in RE. Plyometric training improved RE with no difference between the hard or the soft training surface and improved RE was also independent of the running speed assessed. Furthermore, improved running performance was associated with changes in RE after the intervention.		[Lannerstrom, Johan; Nilsson, Lina C.; Cardinale, Daniele A.; Larsen, Filip J.] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Astrand Lab, Dept Physiol Nutr & Biomech, Stockholm, Sweden; [Bjorklund, Glenn] Mid Sweden Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Ostersund, Sweden; [Cardinale, Daniele A.; Bjorklund, Glenn] Swedish Sports Confederat, Stockholm, Sweden; [Larsen, Filip J.] Gymnastik Och Idrottshogskolan, Box 5626, S-11486 Stockholm, Sweden								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100017	36	Article; Article		
J	Madruga-Parera, Marc; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Bishop, Chris; Turner, Anthony; Blanco, David; Beltran-Garrido, Vicente; Moreno-Perez, Victor; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel								Assessing Inter-Limb Asymmetries in Soccer Players: Magnitude, Direction and Association with Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			41	53		10.2478/hukin-2021-0081			JUL 2021	2021	In this study, we aimed to analyze the magnitude and direction of inter-limb asymmetries in ankle dorsiflexion range of motion (ROM), power (using iso-inertial devices), and a neuromuscular skill (change of direction). Secondarily, we aimed to determine the relationship between inter-limb asymmetry scores for each test and also between these scores and the scores for the different performance tests. Sixteen semiprofessional male soccer players (age: 25.38 + 6.08 years; body height: 1.78 + 0.64 m; body mass: 79.5 + 14.9 kg) participated in this study. We calculated inter-limb asymmetries using five tests: ankle dorsiflexion ROM, change of direction (COD 180o), and iso-inertial resistance tasks in the open (leg extension strength (LE), leg curl strength (LC)) and closed (crossover step (CRO)) kinetic chain. Our results showed that asymmetry magnitudes differed between all tests with highest inter-limb asymmetries displayed during iso-inertial overloading. In addition, we observed that the direction of asymmetries varied depending on the test specificity, and that the CRO asymmetries had a negative association with LE and CRO performance. These findings highlight the independent nature of asymmetries and that CRO could be an appropriate test to detect asymmetries related with the performance of soccer-specific actions (such as changes of direction). Practitioners are encouraged to use multiple tests to detect existing inter-limb differences according to the specific characteristics of each sport.		[Madruga-Parera, Marc] Univ Girona, Univ Sch Hlth & Sport EUSES, Girona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] FC Barcelona Second Team, Sport Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] Return Play & Sports Training Ctr, reQ, Barcelona, Spain; [Dos'Santos, Thomas] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med Res Ctr, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Bishop, Chris; Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Blanco, David; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel] Univ Int Catalunya, Phys Therapy Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Beltran-Garrido, Vicente] Univ Rovira Virgili, Univ Sch Hlth & Sport EUSES, Amposta, Spain; [Moreno-Perez, Victor] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Alicante, Spain; [Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel] FC Barcelona First Team, Sport Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] Balmes 15, Girona 17001, Spain								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100004	44	Article; Article		
J	Arboix-Alio, Jordi; Trabal, Guillem; Aguilera-Castells, Joan; Busca, Bernat								Analysis of the Individual Set-Pieces Influence on the Teams' Ranking in Rink Hockey								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			229	236		10.2478/hukin-2021-0076229			JUL 2021	2021	The main objective of this research was to analyze the individual set-pieces influence on the final season ranking in rink hockey. For this purpose, 6,920 individual set-pieces from 1,680 matches corresponding to free direct hits (n = 4,332) and penalty shots (n = 2,588) were analyzed during seven consecutive seasons (2012-13 to 2018-19) in the First Spanish League (Ok Liga). The variables recorded were the following for each team: total points, free direct hits attempted, free direct hits scored, penalties attempted, penalties scored, total goals scored during the season, free direct hits received, goals received from free direct hits, penalties received, goals received from penalties and total goals received in the season. Results showed that 21.08% of the goals were scored by free direct hits and penalty shots (11.58% and 9.49%, respectively). Likewise, teams ranked in a better position achieved higher effectiveness in individual set-pieces and their goalkeepers were more effective in defending the free direct hits and penalties. Furthermore, results showed significant correlations between team season points and better performance in individual set-pieces variables. Therefore, the results of this study demonstrated the importance of systematic practice of free direct hits and penalty shots for teams' success in rink hockey. Additionally, it is suggested that teams possess special players to execute these particular elements of match play.		[Arboix-Alio, Jordi; Aguilera-Castells, Joan; Busca, Bernat] Ramon Llull Univ, Dept Sports Sci, FPCEE Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Trabal, Guillem] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia, Dept Sports Sci, C Sagrada Familia 7, Barcelona 08500, Spain; [Trabal, Guillem] Univ Vic, Cent Univ Catalonia, Dept Sports Sci, C Sagrada Familia 7, Barcelona 08500, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100021	36	Article; Article		
J	Dewar, Hamish; Clarke, Jenny								Peak Running Intensities in Field Hockey - a Positional Analysis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				79	1			135	144		10.2478/hukin-2021-0067			JUL 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to investigate the positional mean peak running periods during a field hockey match using a moving average method. The secondary aim was to investigate how the peak periods changed between quarters and playing positions. The moving average method was used to analyse the data because of the nature of field hockey, which has natural fluctuations of high and low intensity periods of play. The time periods included periods from 1 to 10 minutes. The level of significance for results was set at p <= 0.05. The study found that forwards had a peak running intensity of 194 +/- 24.2 m.min(-1), midfielders 189 +/- 11.9 m.min(-1), and defenders 182.6 +/- 17.9 m.min(-1). These results showed that forwards had the highest maximum running speed, with defenders having the lowest one (p = 0.0025). Additionally, running output started to plateau after 7/8-min periods for each of the three positions. Forwards did not show any statistically significant changes across the four quarters. Midfielders showed effect sizes ranging from >0.6 to >2.0 (moderate, large and very large) significance when comparing the first three quarters to the fourth one. Defenders showed >0.6 to <2.0 (moderate to large) effect sizes to occur when comparing the first and second quarter to the fourth. There are three main practical implications from the results of this study: 1) the creation of conditioning drills, 2) substitution patterns, and 3) knowledge to be able to plan and train at or above peak match demands.		[Dewar, Hamish; Clarke, Jenny] Univ Canterbury, Sch Hlth Sci, Coll Educ Hlth & Human Dev, Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 8140, New Zealand; [Clarke, Jenny] Univ Canterbury, Sch Hlth Sci, Coll Educ Hlth & Human Dev, Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 8140, New Zealand								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000680047100012	21	Article; Article		
J	Mateos Conde, J.; Cabero Moran, M. T.; Moreno Pascual, C.								Prospective epidemiological study of basketball injuries during one competitive season in professional and amateur Spanish basketball								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	4			349	358		10.1080/00913847.2021.1943721			JUL 4 2022	2022	Introduction: There are few Spanish epidemiological studies of basketball injuries, even though it is the second most played sport and the leading sport played by females in Spain. Population: We studied 117 male and female basketball players from ten amateur or professional teams from four leagues in the 2014-2015 season. Results: There were 11.6 injuries per 1,000 hours of sporting activity, 9.6 injuries per 1,000 hours of training and 47.3 injuries per 1,000 hours of competition. The rate of injuries requiring downtime was 2.99 per 1,000 hours of training, 41.7 per 1,000 hours of competition and 4.1 per 1,000 hours of sporting activity overall. No significant differences were found in the incidence of injuries between leagues, but a higher incidence by season was found in teams participating in international competitions, due to the increased competition time. The ankle was the main site of injuries causing >= 8 days of downtime and knee injuries the site of those causing >= 29 days of downtime. The most frequent injuries were sprains, bruises, and muscle overloads and 63.8% of players had >= 1 potentially-recurring injury. The most prevalent injuries were ankle sprains (50%), thigh muscle injuries (12.2%) and knee tendinitis (7.4%). The only significant predisposing factor for injury was recurrent injury (adjusted OR 1.93, 95% CI 1.029-3.62). Age, sex, height, weight, position, body mass index, and professional/amateur competition were not significantly associated with the number of injuries or >= 7 days downtime in the multivariate analysis. Conclusion: Preventive measures should be applied to the team as a whole at an early age, since recurrent injuries only explained a small percentage of the total injuries.		[Mateos Conde, J.; Moreno Pascual, C.] Univ Salamanca, Dept Nursing & Physiotherapy, Salamanca, Spain; [Cabero Moran, M. T.] Univ Salamanca, Dept Stat, Salamanca, Spain; [Mateos Conde, J.] Univ Salamanca, Dept Nursing & Physiotherapy, Salamanca, Spain								18							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000668380300001	54	Article; Article		
J	Javier Robles-Palazon, Francisco; Ruiz-Perez, Inaki; Oliver, Jon L.; Ayala, Francisco; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar								Reliability, validity, and maturation-related differences of frontal and sagittal plane landing kinematic measures during drop jump and tuck jump screening tests in male youth soccer players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				206	216		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.009			JUL 2021	2021	Objectives: To determine the inter-rater and intra-rater reliability of frontal and sagittal plane landing kinematic measures during drop jump (DVJ) and tuck jump (TJA) tasks in male youth soccer players, to assess the concurrent validity between DVJ and TJA tests, and to evaluate the ability of both tasks to detect differences between players' stage of maturation. Design: Cross-sectional study. Participants: 223 male youth soccer players. Main outcome measures: Frontal plane knee projection angles (FPPA), and hip (HF), knee (KF) and ankle (AF) flexion angles at initial contact (IC) and peak flexion (PF) (i.e., the deepest landing position) in the sagittal plane were assessed. Results: Good-to-excellent inter- and intra-rater reliability (ICC > 0.75; TEMST < 0.3; CVTE < 5%) for the FPPA, HF and KF during DVJ and TJA tasks were found. A low concurrent validity between DVJ and TJA measures was reported. Differences by maturity status (BF10 > 10; error < 10; delta > 0.6) were only identified for the TJA. Pre-PHV group reported higher FPPA, HF-IC, HF-PF, and KF-IC values, as well as lower AF-IC than post-PHV. Pre-PHV also displayed greater HF-IC and KF-IC than circa-PHV group. Conclusions: Although both tests are reliable, the TJA might be viewed as a more informative tool given it shows greater FPPA and can also detect differences by maturity status. (C) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Javier Robles-Palazon, Francisco; Ayala, Francisco; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Campus Excellence Mare Nostrum,C Argentina S-N, Murcia 30720, Spain; [Javier Robles-Palazon, Francisco; Ruiz-Perez, Inaki; Ayala, Francisco; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar] Univ Murcia, Sports & Musculoskeletal Syst Res Grp RAQUIS, Murcia, Spain; [Oliver, Jon L.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Ayala, Francisco] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Campus Excellence Mare Nostrum,C Argentina S-N, Murcia 30720, Spain								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900027	63	Article; Article		
J	Coronado, Rogelio A.; Bley, Jordan A.; Huston, Laura J.; Pennings, Jacquelyn S.; Master, Hiral; Reinke, Emily K.; Bird, Mackenzie L.; Scaramuzza, Erica A.; Haug, Christine M.; Mathis, Shannon L.; Vanston, Susan W.; Cox, Charles L.; Spindler, Kurt P.; Archer, Kristin R.								Composite psychosocial risk based on the fear avoidance model in patients undergoing anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: Cluster-based analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				217	225		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.012			JUL 2021	2021	Objectives: To examine associations between preoperative fear-avoidance model (FAM) risk subgroup status and patient expectation of surgical success with postoperative outcomes at 6 and 12 months after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cohort study. Setting: Academic medical center. Participants: 54 patients (25 females) undergoing unilateral ACLR. Main outcome measures: Cluster analysis distinguished FAM risk subgroups based on preoperative fear of movement/reinjury, self-efficacy, and pain catastrophizing. Preoperative expectation for surgical success was assessed with a numeric rating scale. Six and 12-month outcomes included Subjective Patient Outcomes for Return to Sport, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) sports/recreation and quality of life, and International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC) Subjective Knee Form. Results: Thirteen (24%) patients were "moderate-to-high FAM risk." Moderate-to-high FAM risk patients had lower odds of return to sport at 12 months (OR = 0.3, p = .05) and lower KOOS sports/recreation at 6 months (st. beta =-0.27, p = .05), KOOS quality of life at 12 months (st. beta =-0.42, p = .007), and IKDC at 6 (st. beta =-0.29, p = .04) and 12 months (st. beta =-0.47, p = .001). Higher expectation was associated with lower 6-month IKDC (st. beta =-0.36, p = .008) and 12-month KOOS quality of life (st. beta =-0.29, p = .05). Conclusions: Preoperative FAM risk influences patient-reported outcomes and return to sport at 6 and 12 months. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Coronado, Rogelio A.; Bley, Jordan A.; Huston, Laura J.; Pennings, Jacquelyn S.; Master, Hiral; Bird, Mackenzie L.; Scaramuzza, Erica A.; Haug, Christine M.; Vanston, Susan W.; Cox, Charles L.; Archer, Kristin R.] Vanderbilt Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Med Ctr, Nashville, TN 37232 USA; [Coronado, Rogelio A.; Huston, Laura J.; Pennings, Jacquelyn S.; Archer, Kristin R.] Vanderbilt Univ, Ctr Musculoskeletal Res, Med Ctr, Nashville, TN 37232 USA; [Coronado, Rogelio A.; Archer, Kristin R.] Vanderbilt Univ, Osher Ctr Integrat Med, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Med Ctr, Nashville, TN 37232 USA; [Reinke, Emily K.] Duke Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Durham, NC USA; [Mathis, Shannon L.] Univ Alabama, Dept Kinesiol, Huntsville, AL 35899 USA; [Spindler, Kurt P.] Cleveland Clin Fdn, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 9500 Euclid Ave, Cleveland, OH 44195 USA; [Archer, Kristin R.] Vanderbilt Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Ctr Musculoskeletal Res, 1215 21st Ave South,Med Ctr East South Tower, Nashville, TN 37232 USA								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900028	78	Article; Article		
J	Alahmad, Tahani A.; Tierney, Audrey C.; Cahalan, Roisin M.; Almaflehi, Nassr S.; Clifford, Amanda M.								Injury risk profile of amateur Irish women soccer players and players' opinions on risk factors and prevention strategies								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				184	194		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.008			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: To explore injury profile, opinions on risk factors and injury prevention, among Irish amateur women soccer players. Design: A cross-sectional online survey. Setting: Irish amateur winter league. Participants: Active players <18 years of age. Main outcomes: Differences were found between injured and uninjured groups, and risk factors that significantly predict soccer injury were identified. Results: 168 injuries were reported by 83 respondents during the winter season. An increased prevalence of competition anxiety was observed in (53.8%:n = 85 of respondents) compared to other risk factors. There was a negative association between injuries and players' general health state (OR = 0.820, 95% CI 0.7-0.9, p = 0.007). Players' knowledge about some risk factors including playing position, joint hypermobility, and playing during menses contradicts current evidence. 50%; n = 67 of the respondents had not received any education on injury risk or prevention. Conclusion: This study identified that Irish amateur women soccer players that responded have different characteristics, prevalence of risk factors and injury profiles to women players from different levels and countries. The findings suggest that some players may not be aware of the existing evidence base pertaining to common risk factors for injury. Further research is required to confirm the findings and explore the implementation of injury prevention strategies. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Alahmad, Tahani A.; Tierney, Audrey C.; Cahalan, Roisin M.; Clifford, Amanda M.] Univ Limerick UL, Hlth Res Inst, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Alahmad, Tahani A.] King Saud Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Phys Therapy, Coll Appl Med Sci, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; [Tierney, Audrey C.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Tierney, Audrey C.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Hlth Implementat Sci & Technol Grp, Limerick, Ireland; [Tierney, Audrey C.] La Trobe Univ, Dept Rehabil Nutr & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Cahalan, Roisin M.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Phys Act Hlth Res Cluster, Limerick, Ireland; [Almaflehi, Nassr S.] King Saud Univ, Coll Dent, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; [Almaflehi, Nassr S.] King Saud Univ, Coll Med, KSU Chair Med Educ Res & Dev, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; [Clifford, Amanda M.] Univ Limerick, Ageing Res Ctr, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Alahmad, Tahani A.] Univ Limerick, Fac Educ & Hlth Sci, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick V94T9PX, Ireland								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900024	86	Article; Article		
J	Maiolini Ducatti, Matheus Henrique; Waiteman, Marina Cabral; Balotari Botta, Ana Flavia; Lopes, Helder dos Santos; Glaviano, Neal Robert; de Azevedo, Fabio Micolis; Briani, Ronaldo Valdir								Knee flexor strength, rate of torque development and flexibility in women and men with patellofemoral pain: Relationship with pain and the performance in the single leg bridge test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				166	172		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.006			JUL 2021	2021	Objectives: To investigate the relationship between: (1) knee flexor strength, rate of torque development (RTD), and flexibility with pain level; (2) knee flexor strength and RTD with the performance in the single leg bridge test (SLBT) in women and men with patellofemoral pain (PFP). Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory-based study. Participants: 39 women and 36 men with PFP. Main outcome measures: Knee flexor strength, RTD, and flexibility; performance in the SLBT, current, and worst pain level. Results: Moderate to strong significant negative relationships were identified between the current pain level with knee flexor strength (r =-0.57 to-0.34) and flexibility (r =-0.44 to-0.35); and between knee flexor strength and RTD with the performance in the SLBT (r = 0.34 to 0.57) in women and men with PFP. Knee flexor RTD was not related to any pain level and no significant relationships were identified between the worst pain level with knee flexor strength and flexibility in women and men with PFP. Conclusions: Our results support the potential value of assessing knee flexor strength and flexibility in women and men with PFP. The SLBT may be a useful tool to assess knee flexor muscle capacity in individuals with PFP in a clinical setting. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Maiolini Ducatti, Matheus Henrique; Waiteman, Marina Cabral; Balotari Botta, Ana Flavia; Lopes, Helder dos Santos; de Azevedo, Fabio Micolis; Briani, Ronaldo Valdir] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci & Technol, Lab Biomech & Motor Control LABCOM, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Glaviano, Neal Robert] Univ Connecticut UCONN, Coll Agr Hlth & Nat Resources, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Briani, Ronaldo Valdir] 305 Roberto Simonsen St Presidente Prudente, BR-19060900 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900022	40	Article; Article		
J	Hensley, Craig P.; Lenihan, Erin M.; Pratt, Kyle; Shah, Aayush; O'Donnell, Erin; Nee, Ping-Chen; Lee, Jungwha; Yang, Amy; Chang, Alison H.								Patterns of video-based motion analysis use among sports physical therapists								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				159	165		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.003			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: Examine video-based motion analysis (VBMA) use among sports physical therapists. Design: Cross-sectional observation. Setting: Survey, online-platform. Participants: American Academy of Sports Physical Therapy members (n = 261). Main Outcome Measures: VBMA use frequency, reasons for use, facilitators/barriers, tools used, factors associated with use. Results: 194 (74.3%) used VBMA but 163 (84%) use it for < 25% of their caseload. Most (57.7%) used their personal device to capture VBMA. Commonly cited reasons for use were movement analysis (93.8%) and patient education (87.6%). Barriers to use included time (30.7%), unfamiliarity with device/equipment (19.2%), and lack of device/equipment (18.4%). Younger age, advanced training, and greater time spent with return patients were each associated with use. For every 5-year increase of age, there was a 12% reduced likelihood of VBMA use (OR = 0.88; 95% CI = 0.77-1.0 0). Board-certified sports clinical specialists were more likely to use vs. those without additional certifications/degrees (OR = 3.27; 95% CI = 1.33-8.02). Spending 30-59 (vs. 30) minutes with return patients increased the odds of use (ORs range: 2.71 to 3.85). Conclusion: Most respondents used VBMA, albeit infrequently. Those younger, with advanced training, and spending 30 min with return patients were more likely to use VBMA. Future research should investigate whether VBMA use enhances patient outcomes. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hensley, Craig P.; Lenihan, Erin M.; Pratt, Kyle; Shah, Aayush; O'Donnell, Erin; Nee, Ping-Chen; Chang, Alison H.] Northwestern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Human Movement Sci, Feinberg Sch Med, 645 N Michigan Ave 1100, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Lee, Jungwha; Yang, Amy] Northwestern Univ, Dept Prevent Med, Feinberg Sch Med, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Chang, Alison H.] Northwestern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Human Movement Sci, Feinberg Sch Med, 645 N Michigan Ave 1100, Chicago, IL 60611 USA								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900021	21	Article; Article		
J	Kemler, Ellen; Huisstede, Bionka								Performance goals of runners are associated with the occurrence of running-related injuries								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				153	158		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.004			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between running performance goals and running-related injuries (RRIs). Design: Retrospective cross-sectional study. Setting: A total of 970 recreational runners filled in an online questionnaire to collect data on personal characteristics, their running activities, RRIs, and running goals. Participants: 970 recreational runners, 1) without a running performance goal, who 2) trained to complete a certain distance, and who 3) trained to complete a certain distance and to participate in a specific running event. Main outcome measures: RRI, defined as any physical complaint developed during running in the previous 12 months. Results: A statistically significant relationship was found between runners who trained for a specific running event and who also wanted to run a certain distance (OR 2.0, 95%CI 1.23-2.98) compared with runners without a running goal. (Hinder from a) Previous injury (OR 3.9, 95%CI 2.79-5.42), overweight (OR 1.6, 95%CI 1.10-2.21), and training for more than 22.5 h/year (OR 1.7, 95%CI 1.04-2.72 and OR 2.3, 95%CI 1.42-3.81) were also associated with RRIs. Conclusion: Running to achieve running goals, specifically running to complete a certain distance and to participate in an event, is associated with the occurrence of an RRI. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kemler, Ellen] Dutch Consumer Safety Inst VeiligheidNL, POB 75169, NL-1070 AD Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Huisstede, Bionka] Univ Utrecht, Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Brain Ctr, Dept Rehabil Phys Therapy Sci & Sport, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Kemler, Ellen] Dutch Consumer Safety Inst VeiligheidNL, POB 75169, NL-1070 AD Amsterdam, Netherlands								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900020	38	Article; Article		
J	Sigurdsson, Haraldur B.; Maguire, Madeline Collazo; Balascio, Phoebe; Silbernagel, Karin Gravare								Effects of kinesiophobia and pain on performance and willingness to perform jumping tests in Achilles tendinopathy: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				139	144		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.05.002			JUL 2021	2021	Objectives: Fear of movement may be a source of systemic bias in studies reporting functional deficits in patients with Achilles tendinopathy. The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of kinesiophobia on completion rate and performance on tests evaluating lower extremity function, while controlling for self-reported pain. Design: Cross-sectional study; Setting: Tendon research laboratory. Participants: Ninety-four participants with Achilles tendinopathy. Main outcome measures: Completion (yes/no) and performance (cm) on the counter-movement jump, hopping, and drop counter-movement jump. Results: The models fit the data (R<^>2 = 0.81, both models). TSK score did not predict completion (beta =-0.01, 95% CI =-0.13 -0.09, P = 0.74) but pain did (beta =-0.36, 95% CI =-0.53 to-0.19, P < 0.0001). TSK score did not predict performance (beta =-0.06, 95% CI =-0.14 -0.003, P = 0.07), but pain did (beta =-0.15, 95% CI =-0.22 to-0.07, P < 0.0001). Conclusions: Kinesiophobia did not affect the physical performance tests in patients with Achilles tendinopathy. Measures of physical performance should be interpreted alongside self-reported pain. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sigurdsson, Haraldur B.; Maguire, Madeline Collazo; Balascio, Phoebe; Silbernagel, Karin Gravare] Univ Delaware, Dept Phys Therapy, Tendon Res Grp, Newark, DE USA; [Silbernagel, Karin Gravare] STAR Hlth Sci Complex Campus,540 South Coll Ave, Newark, DE 19713 USA								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900018	26	Article; Article		
J	Slagers, Anton J.; van Veen, Esther; Zwerver, Johannes; Geertzen, Jan H. B.; Reininga, Inge H. F.; Van den Akker-Scheek, Inge								Psychological factors during rehabilitation of patients with Achilles or patellar tendinopathy: a cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				145	152		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.04.010			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: to examine psychological factors during rehabilitation of patients with Achilles or patellar tendinopathy as well as the association between psychological factors and tendinopathy severity, sport participation, and satisfaction with activity level and tendon function. Design: cross-sectional study. Setting: online survey platform. Participants: 119 patients (mean age: 44 years (SD 14)) diagnosed with Achilles or patellar tendinopathy. Main outcome measures: A range of patient-reported psychological and outcome measures were recorded. Multivariate regression analyses were performed to establish the association between each psychological factor and outcome measures, adjusted for relevant confounders. Results: Psychological readiness and confidence to return to sports (I-PRRS) and pain catastrophizing (PCS) were significantly associated with tendinopathy severity (modified VISA), sport participation(OSTRC-O), and satisfaction. Kinesiophobia (TSK) and the importance to patients of returning to pre-injury activity level were significantly associated with sports participation and satisfaction. Conclusion: The current study provides evidence of impairments in psychological factors during rehabilitation of patients with Achilles and patellar tendinopathy. Most investigated psychological factors were associated with tendinopathy severity, function, participation, and satisfaction. Physical therapists should recognize patients with lack of psychological readiness to return to sports and also patients with kinesiophobia or catastrophizing thoughts when experiencing pain. (c) 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Slagers, Anton J.; Geertzen, Jan H. B.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Rehabil, Dept Rehabil Med, Groningen, Netherlands; [van Veen, Esther; Van den Akker-Scheek, Inge] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Orthopaed, Groningen, Netherlands; [Zwerver, Johannes] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Zwerver, Johannes] Gelderse Vallei Hosp, Sports Valley, Dept Sports Med, Ede, Netherlands; [Reininga, Inge H. F.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Trauma Surg, Groningen, Netherlands; [Slagers, Anton J.] Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Rehabilitat, POB 30-001, NL-9700 RB Groningen, Netherlands								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900019	70	Article; Article		
J	Besomi, Manuela; Salomoni, Sauro E.; Hug, Francois; Tier, Louise; Vicenzino, Bill; Hodges, Paul W.								Exploration of shear wave elastography measures of the iliotibial band during different tasks in pain-free runners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				121	129		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.04.006			JUL 2021	2021	Objectives: To determine whether shear wave velocity (SWV) of the iliotibial band (ITB): i) increases with active and passive static tasks, and a dynamic task, ii) differs between ITB regions, iii) changes after exposure to running. Additionally, it aimed to determine the between-day reliability. Design: Case series & test-retest. Setting: Human movement unit laboratory. Participants: Fifteen runners. Main outcome measures: SWV was measured unilaterally in three regions of the ITB (proximal, middle and distal), during six tasks: rest and contraction (pre-and post-running), modified Ober test, standing, pelvic drop, and weight shift. Results: Compared to rest, SWV was higher during contraction and Ober test in the distal and middle regions, and higher for the middle region in standing and pelvic drop. No differences were found between regions. A tendency of decreased SWV was observed after running. Compared to the start of the dynamic task, SWV was greater at the end of the movement. Reliability was moderate-to-good for the middle region in the standing tasks (ICCs 1/4 0.68 to 0.84). Conclusion: SVW of the ITB was higher under passive or active tension. Comparisons between tasks/regions need to be considered in light of the small sample size and poor repeatability of some regions/conditions. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Besomi, Manuela; Salomoni, Sauro E.; Hug, Francois; Tier, Louise; Vicenzino, Bill; Hodges, Paul W.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia; [Hug, Francois] Univ Nantes, Fac Sport Sci, Lab Movement Interact Performance EA 4334, Nantes, France; [Hug, Francois] Inst Univ France IUF, Paris, France; [Hodges, Paul W.] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld 4072, Australia								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900015	43	Article; Article		
J	Yusuf, Mohamed; Dey, Paola; Callaghan, Michael; Relph, Nicola; Gichuru, Phillip; Pinner, Susan; Ashbrook, Jane; Ashman, Joanne; Goodwin, Peter; Macdonald, Ruth; Selfe, James								Validation and utilisation of a digital version of the survey instrument for natural history, Aetiology and Prevalence of Patellofemoral pain studies (eSNAPPS)								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				82	88		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.04.002			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: This study validated the newly adapted electronic SNAPPS (eSNAPPS) against the original paper SNAPPS. Subsequently, the study estimated the prevalence of PFP in running participants and spectators attending three mass-participant running events in the United Kingdom by using the eSNAPPS tool. Design: This study had two parts. Firstly, a validation of the original paper version of the SNAPPS tool. Secondly, if validation was achieved, eSNAPPS was used in a prevalence study. Participants: A convenience sample of running participants and spectators aged 18-40 years attending the mass participation running events. Main outcome measure: The 12-month prevalence of PFP. Results: eSNAPPS was valid in identifying those with PFP (ICC 0.99 for Overall agreement, p < 0.0001). In the prevalence study, a total of 1080 running participants and spectators completed the eSNAPPS. The overall prevalence of PFP was 17.4% (95%CI: 15.2%, 19.8%); 20.5% of males (16.5, 24.9) and 15.7% of females (13.1, 18.7) had PFP. Prevalence was 17.4% (15.2, 19.8) in spectators and 16.7% in running participants (14.5, 19.0). Conclusion: The overall PFP prevalence in this study was slightly smaller than those previously reported in the literature. Findings also show that there were similar prevalence estimates in spectators and running participants. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Yusuf, Mohamed; Pinner, Susan] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med Res Ctr, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Dey, Paola; Relph, Nicola] Edge Hill Univ, Fac Hlth Social Care & Med, Ormskirk, England; [Callaghan, Michael; Ashbrook, Jane; Ashman, Joanne; Goodwin, Peter; Macdonald, Ruth; Selfe, James] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Fac Hlth Psychol & Social Care, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Gichuru, Phillip] Aston Univ, Aston Med Sch, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Yusuf, Mohamed] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Fac Sci & Engn, Manchester, Lancs, England								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900011	41	Article; Article		
J	Murphy, Gemma P.; Sheehan, Rachel B.								A qualitative investigation into the individual injury burden of amateur rugby players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				74	81		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.04.003			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: To examine the individual experiences of injury burden in amateur Rugby players across the onset of injury, rehabilitation, and return to play. Design: Qualitative. Setting: Irish amateur Rugby clubs. Participants: Three male and two female Rugby players who sustained a severe injury that resulted in a time loss of at least 28 days. Main outcome measures: Semi-structured interviews were used to explore the injury burden experienced during the three phases of injury. Results: Hierarchical content analysis revealed 36 codes representing individual injury burden, which were clustered into seven themes across personal (emotional reaction; impact on performance or involvement; lack of knowledge; severity of injury and incapacitation) and situational (exposure to others playing; negative experiences with treatment or rehabilitation; societal burden) dimensions. Conclusions: The findings indicate that individual injury experiences can affect a player's recovery and rehabilitation outcome, potentially extending the injury process and affecting player availability for the team. As such, injury management should focus on alleviating any injury-related burden experienced by players, as well as burden placed on the team, to maximise rehabilitation outcomes. (c) 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license		[Murphy, Gemma P.; Sheehan, Rachel B.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Murphy, Gemma P.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900010	74	Article; Article		
J	Franke, Rodrigo de Azevedo; Rodrigues, Rodrigo; Geremia, Jeam Marcel; Teixeira, Bruno Costa; Boeno, Francesco; Rabello, Rodrigo; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini; Lima, Claudia Silveira								Moderate intensity cycling is better than running on recovery of eccentric exercise-induced muscle damage								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				65	73		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.04.004			JUL 2021	2021	Objective: To compare the effects of moderate intensity running and cycling on markers of exercise induced muscle damage in men. Study design: Randomized controlled trial. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Thirty volunteers were randomized in three groups [running (RG; n = 10), cycling (CG; n = 10) and control (CON; n = 10)] and were evaluated at baseline, post 24, 48 and 72 h of knee extensors' muscle damage protocol. CON performed passive recovery, while RG and CG performed active recovery immediately after the protocol, as well as 24 h and 48 h afterwards. Main outcomes: (i) maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC); (ii) delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS); (iii) plasma creatine kinase (CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels. Results: No group-by-time interaction was found in any outcome evaluated (p > 0.05). All groups presented decreases in MVIC and increases in DOMS (p < 0.001), without differences in CK and LDH. Compared with CON, exercise groups presented likely beneficial effects for LDH, while only CG had a likely beneficial effect for DOMS. Lastly, CG presented likely/very likely beneficial effects for MVIC and DOMS compared to RG. Conclusion: Although the null hypothesis analysis did not find differences, the magnitude-based inference analysis suggested that moderate intensity cycling have likely beneficial effects on knee extensor muscle recovery after eccentric exercise protocol. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Franke, Rodrigo de Azevedo; Geremia, Jeam Marcel; Teixeira, Bruno Costa; Boeno, Francesco; Lima, Claudia Silveira] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Rodrigues, Rodrigo] Serra Gaucha Univ Ctr, Caxias Do Sul, RS, Brazil; [Rabello, Rodrigo] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, MI, Italy; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Rodrigues, Rodrigo] Serra Gaticha Univ Ctr, Exercise Physiol & Phys Assessment Lab, R Marechal Floriano 1229, Caxias Do Sul, RS, Brazil								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900009	53	Article; Article		
J	Mineta, Shinshiro; Inami, Takayuki; Hoshiba, Takuma; Higashihara, Ayako; Kumai, Tsukasa; Torii, Suguru; Hirose, Norikazu								Greater knee varus angle and pelvic internal rotation after landing are predictive factors of a non-contact lateral ankle sprain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				59	64		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.04.001			JUL 2021	2021	Objectives: This study aimed to clarify the kinematic, kinetic characteristics associated with lateral ankle sprain. Design: A 16-month prospective cohort study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: A total of 179 college athletes. Main outcome measures: Joint kinematics, moment during single-leg landing tasks, and ankle laxity were measured. The attendance of each participating team, injury mechanism, existence of body contact, presence of orthosis, with or without medical diagnosis, and periods of absence were recorded. Results: Twenty-nine participants incurred lateral ankle sprain during non-contact motion. The Cox regression analysis revealed that greater knee varus peak angle (hazard ratio: 1.16 [95% confidence interval: 1.10-1.22], p < 0.001) and greater pelvic internal rotation peak angle toward the support leg were associated with lateral ankle sprain (hazard ratio: 1.08 [95% confidence interval: 1.02-1.15], p = 0.009). The cut-off values for each predictive factor were -0.17 degrees (area under the curve = 0.89, p < 0.001) and 6.63 degrees (area under the curve = 0.74, p < 0.001), respectively. Conclusions: A greater knee varus peak angle and pelvic internal rotation peak angle after single-leg landing are predictive factors for lateral ankle sprain. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mineta, Shinshiro] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Nishitokyo, Tokyo, Japan; [Mineta, Shinshiro] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Chiyoda Ku, Res Fellowships Young Scientists, Kojimachi, Japan; [Inami, Takayuki; Higashihara, Ayako] Keio Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Hoshiba, Takuma] Waseda Univ, Waseda Inst Sport Sci, Tokorozawashi, Saitama, Japan; [Higashihara, Ayako; Kumai, Tsukasa; Torii, Suguru; Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Nishitokyo, Tokyo, Japan; [Mineta, Shinshiro] 75 2 208 Waseda Univ,2-7-5 Higashifushimi, Nishitokyo, Tokyo 2020021, Japan								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900008	41	Article; Article		
J	Allen, T.; Wilson, S.; Cohen, D. D.; Taberner, M.								Drill design using the 'control-chaos continuum': Blending science and art during return to sport following knee injury in elite football								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				50				22	35		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.02.011			JUL 2021	2021	Establishing the level of risk, planning and adapting the return to sport (RTS) process following a complex knee injury involves drawing on a combination of relevant high-quality evidence and practitioner experience. On-pitch rehabilitation is a critical element of this process, providing an effective transition from rehabilitation to team training. The 'control-chaos continuum' (CCC) is an adaptable framework for on-pitch rehabilitation moving from high control to high chaos, progressively increasing running load demands and incorporating greater perceptual and neurocognitive challenges within sport specific drills. Drills are a key element of the CCC, and are designed to ensure specificity, ecological validity and maintaining player interest. We showcase drill progression through the phases of the CCC, highlighting the use of constraints to create drills that incorporate the physical, technical, tactical and injury-specific needs of the player. We also provide recommendations to help practitioners create training session content using the CCC to help replicate the demands of team training within their own environment. Crown Copyright (c) 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Allen, T.; Wilson, S.] Arsenal Football Club, Arsenal Performance & Res Team, London, England; [Allen, T.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, Preston, Lancs, England; [Cohen, D. D.] Univ Santander UDES, Masira Res Inst, Bucaramanga, Colombia; [Cohen, D. D.] Colombian Minist Sport Mindeporte, Sports Sci Ctr CCD, Bogota, Colombia; [Taberner, M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Allen, T.] Arsenal Football Club, Arsenal Performance & Res Team, London, England								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661948900004	35	Article; Article		
J	Quinones, Manuel D.; Lemon, Peter W. R.								Low glycemic CHO ingestion minimizes cognitive function decline during a simulated soccer match								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			423	429	17479541211028578	10.1177/17479541211028578			APR 2022	2022	Often cognitive function is affected adversely during prolonged, high intensity exercise. We assessed whether hydrothermally modified corn starch (HMS) ingestion minimizes cognitive decline with soccer play. 11 men (177.7 +/- 6.8 cm, 77.3 +/- 7.9 kg, 22 +/- 3 y, 12.8 +/- 4.9% body fat, V O(2)max = 57.1 +/- 3.9 ml.kg BM-1.min(-1); mean +/- SD) completed 60 min simulated soccer matches with HMS (8% CHO; 0.7 g.kg BM-1.h(-1); 2.8 kcal.kg BM-1.h(-1)) vs isoenergetic dextrose (DEX) consumed 30 min prior to the match and at half time. Compared to DEX, blood glucose was lower (p < 0.001) with HMS at 15 (5.3 +/- 0.6 vs 7.7 +/- 1.4 mmol.L-1) and 30 min post ingestion (5.6 +/- 0.6 vs 8.3 +/- 1.0 mmol.L-1), and greater (p = 0.004) after 15 min of play (5.8 +/- 0.5 vs 5.1 +/- 0.6 mmol.L-1). With HMS, perceived exertion ratings were reduced throughout the match (p = 0.025 at 15 min). Flanker test incongruent trial reaction time (p = 0.040) and conflict cost (p = 0.019) were both better with HMS. These data suggest that HMS ingestion minimizes cognitive decline during soccer play. More study is warranted to elucidate fully the cognition benefits of HMS ingestion for sport performance.		[Quinones, Manuel D.; Lemon, Peter W. R.] Univ Western Ontario, Sch Kinesiol, Exercise Nutr Res Lab, London, ON, Canada; [Lemon, Peter W. R.] Western Univ, 411 Labatt HSB, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000669635100001	32	Article; Article		
J	Kwon, Youngbum; Kwak, Dae Hee								No games to watch: empirical analysis of sport fans' stress and coping strategies during COVID-19 lockdown								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	1			190	208		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2021-0053			JAN 11 2022	2022	Purpose The global outbreak of the COVID-19 forced most sport leagues to cancel games in March-April 2020, leaving no sport games to watch for sport fans. The present study examined how sport consumers appraise stress and engage in coping behaviors resulted from sport lockout due to the global pandemic. Design/methodology/approach This study examined the relationship between sport fans' psychological dispositions, threat appraisal and coping strategies among professional sport fans in the USA. A panel of sport fans (N = 446) representative of the US adult population participated in an online survey in the fourth week of April, 2020 when no major sport leagues made a return from the lockout due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Findings Results of this present study showed that anger, aggressiveness and need for affiliation increased threat perceptions toward the COVID-19 lockout, which subsequently had significant effect on emotion-focused and disengagement coping behaviors. Research limitations/implications This is the first empirical study that examined stress and coping behavior among sport fans in the global public health crisis context. Our findings show what triggers stress appraisals and how fans cope with them. Practical implications Findings suggest that segmenting sport fans based on psychological dispositions could be useful in predicting fans that will engage in coping behaviors. Social implications While the hope is to return to normal postpandemic, COVID-19 might not be the last. We are uncertain whether there might be another potential pandemic-related sport lockdown. Understanding how lack of sport events can create distress in sport fans and have important public health implications. Originality/value The findings provide empirical evidence on how sport consumers respond to the pandemic-related sport lockdown and cope with the unprecedented situation. The findings of this study contribute to the sport management literature as we are unsure whether the sport industry might face this challenging situation in the future again.		[Kwon, Youngbum; Kwak, Dae Hee] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Kwak, Dae Hee] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000669530700001	77	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Antonio S.; Son, Sungwook								Sport rebranding: the effect of different degrees of sport logo redesign on brand attitude and purchase intention								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	1			155	172		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2021-0016			JAN 11 2022	2022	Purpose Despite its growth, there has been a lack of investigation on how sport rebranding influences fans and their behaviors. This study sought to examine how a critical aspect of rebranding - logo redesign - influences fans' attitudes toward a sport brand and intent to purchase merchandise bearing the rebranded logo. More specifically, we aim to investigate the influence of varying degrees of logo change and fan identification in relation to brand attitude and purchase intention. Design/methodology/approach An experimental design, 4 (degrees of logo change) x 2 (fan identification: low, high), was utilized with the sample of 277 participants. The current logo of the Ultimate Fighting Championship was redesigned into three fictitious rebranded logos as stimuli based on different rebranding types. Findings The results suggest that color change and revolutionary change generate the most negative attitudes from both high- and low-identified fans, and fan identification is not a significant factor influencing fan attitudes. Regarding purchase intention, low-identified fans are not significantly influenced by logo changes whereas highly identified fans showed similar response to their attitudes. Originality/value The findings advance the current body of knowledge on sport rebranding and fan behavior by demonstrating the effects of varying degrees of logo redesign and fan identification levels on brand attitude and purchase intention. Moreover, the current research has important implications for sport marketers on developing effective rebranding and logo redesign strategies.		[Williams, Antonio S.; Son, Sungwook] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Williams, Antonio S.] Indiana Univ Bloomington, Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000667821200001	70	Article; Article		
J	Sadamasu, Aya; Yamaguchi, Satoshi; Akagi, Ryuichiro; Sasho, Takahisa; Morikawa, Tsuguo; Ohtori, Seiji								Knowledge of and experience with transgender players among soccer team staff: a cross-sectional questionnaire design								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	3			244	250		10.1080/00913847.2021.1911569			MAY 4 2022	2022	Objectives: Transgender issues have become increasingly prominent in sports. However, knowledge of and experience with supporting transgender players across soccer team staff remain unclear. The objectives of this questionnaire-based study were to 1) clarify staff knowledge of transgender-related terminology; and 2) explore soccer team staff's awareness and experience with supporting transgender players. Methods: A questionnaire was distributed to coaches, physicians, and physical trainers affiliated with soccer teams between 2018 and 2019 to capture 1) participant characteristics (e.g. gender, age, certified license, team categories); 2) their understanding of transgender-related terms, including lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) and of the IOC Consensus Meeting on Sex Reassignment and Hyperandrogenism in 2015; 3) their awareness of transgender players; and 4) their experience supporting transgender players. Participants were categorized by age, gender, profession, qualifications, and category of involvement; their understanding and experience were investigated statistically using univariate and multivariate analysis. Results: The 478 respondents included 30 women and 448 men with a mean age of 38 +/- 10 years. Of these, 83% understood the term transgender, 75% understood the term LGBT, while only 7% were familiar with the 2015 IOC Consensus Meeting. Physicians reflected more knowledge than coaches and physical trainers (p < 0.01). Altogether, 15% had identified transgender players and 1% had experience supporting them. Respondents with certified licenses who worked with women's teams were more likely to recognize transgender players (p < 0.01). Four participants (1%) had witnessed transgender players receiving transgender hormone therapy. Conclusion: Although most soccer support staff were familiar with transgender terms, many did not have sufficient knowledge of or experience with transgender athletes.		[Sadamasu, Aya; Yamaguchi, Satoshi; Akagi, Ryuichiro; Sasho, Takahisa; Ohtori, Seiji] Chiba Univ, Grad Sch Med & Pharmaceut Sci, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chiba, Japan; [Yamaguchi, Satoshi] Chiba Univ, Grad Sch Global & Transdisciplinary Studies, Chiba, Japan; [Sasho, Takahisa] Chiba Univ, Ctr Prevent Med Sci, Chiba, Japan; [Morikawa, Tsuguo] Chiba Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chiba, Japan; [Morikawa, Tsuguo] Med Comm Japan Football Assoc, Tokyo, Japan; [Sadamasu, Aya] Chiba Univ, Grad Sch Med & Pharmaceut Sci, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chuo Ku, 1-8-1 Inohana, Chiba, Chiba 2608670, Japan								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000667609200001	30	Article; Article		
J	Cho, Heetae; Kim, Sunghoon; Lee, Ye Hoon								Sport coaches' positive emotions, task performance, and well-being: The mediating role of work satisfaction								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	6			1247	1258	17479541211026246	10.1177/17479541211026246			DEC 2021	2021	Although previous studies have uncovered various factors to understand sport coaches' life, the role of positive emotions toward coaching experience and their impacts on behavioral and psychological outcomes remain unknown. As such, the purpose of this study was to examine the influence of sport coaches' positive emotions on their work satisfaction and task performance and further measure the factors that would facilitate the understanding of sport coaches' well-being. A total of 519 responses were collected from sport coaches in Singapore. Results showed that all the hypothesized relationships were significant, highlighting work satisfaction to play a mediating role in the relationship between positive emotions and task performance and between positive emotions and well-being. The findings of this study contribute to the advancement of the theoretical knowledge on the role of positive emotions in the context of sport management and provide valuable practical implications for sport organizations.		[Cho, Heetae] Nanyang Technol Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Kim, Sunghoon] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Ye Hoon] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Div Int Sport & Leisure Studies, Fac Off Bldg 104, Yongin 449791, Kyunggi Do, South Korea; [Lee, Ye Hoon] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Div Int Sport & Leisure Studies, Fac Off Bldg 104, Yongin 449791, Kyunggi Do, South Korea								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000667928300001	102	Article; Article		
J	Penalva, Francisco; Guzman, Jose F.; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Crespo, Miguel								Design and validation of a tennis tool to control on-court technical and tactical training content								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			309	317	17479541211027428	10.1177/17479541211027428			APR 2022	2022	In high performance tennis, different aspects like physical-conditioning, strategy-tactic, technical-biomechanical, psychology and skills acquisition have received large attention from the researchers. Nevertheless, the programming, periodization and planning of training sessions and competitions have not been as studied in depth. Coaches still use their experience, trial-error and subjective perceptions as methods of conducting these fundamental tasks. This article presents the design and validation of an instrument to control the technical and tactical training content on-court. The instrument was conceived by 9 experts and validated by 23 experienced coaches, who used on-court tennis exercises examples. The instrument is a useful tool for helping the coaches to improve the control of the on-court technical and tactical content and the tennis training session contents in high performance tennis players.		[Penalva, Francisco; Guzman, Jose F.; Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Valencia, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, London, England; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Valencia, Spain								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000666616800001	45	Article; Article		
J	Thrien, Fanny; Furley, Philip								Nonverbal expressions of soccer coaches during the game and their potential effects on observers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1063	1073	17479541211028520	10.1177/17479541211028520			OCT 2021	2021	This study aims to investigate the communicative content of nonverbal (emotion) expressions of soccer coaches during a game and how these provide information about the current situation and how this information might impact players' self-confidence during a game. In Studies 1 (N = 137) and 2 (N = 102) we investigated if soccer coaches are estimated to be happier and are rated higher on dimensions related to social status when their team is leading compared to when it is trailing. Results showed that observers rated coaches as happier, more dominant, more proud, and more confident when their team was leading. In Study 3 (N = 152), participants watched short videos depicting the coach's NVB during a game and rated whether the coach's team was trailing or leading. The results showed that observers could clearly distinguish between leading and trailing coaches. In the fourth study, 72 soccer players were asked to watch the same videos from the first three studies and rate their own level of confidence in reaction to the coach's NVB in a hypothetical scenario. The results indicate that a coach's NVB can influence his athletes' self-confidence during a game. The practical implications of the findings regarding the body language of coaches are discussed.		[Thrien, Fanny] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Sport Psychol Sport Pedag & Sport Sociol, Halle, Germany; [Furley, Philip] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Cognit & Team Racket Sport Res, Cologne, Germany; [Thrien, Fanny] Humboldtstr 5, D-04105 Leipzig, Germany								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000666610400001	63	Article; Article		
J	Keeler, Zachary T.; Stephens, Heather M.; Humphreys, Brad R.								The Amenity Value of Sports Facilities: Evidence From the Staples Center in Los Angeles								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	7			799	822	15270025211018258	10.1177/15270025211018258			OCT 2021	2021	U.S. cities have recently experienced a boom in new sports facility construction. Although these facilities can provide benefits to local residents, they may also generate negative externalities, making dwellings near a facility less desirable. Using a hedonic spatial difference-in-differences model, we analyze the impact of proximity to the Staples Center, a sports and entertainment venue in downtown Los Angeles, California, on house prices. Results indicate that the arena opening increased nearby house prices and that there were also positive "anticipation" effects associated with the announcement of the new arena location and local government approval.		[Keeler, Zachary T.; Stephens, Heather M.] West Virginia Univ, Resource Econ & Management, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Keeler, Zachary T.] Texas Tech Univ, Energy Commerce & Business Econ, 703 Flint Ave, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, Dept Econ, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Keeler, Zachary T.] Texas Tech Univ, Energy Commerce & Business Econ, 703 Flint Ave, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA								15							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000666616600001	43	Article; Article		
J	Burdina, Mariya; Hiller, Scott								When Falling Just Short is a Good Thing: The Effect of Past Performance on Improvement								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	7			777	798	15270025211018247	10.1177/15270025211018247			OCT 2021	2021	Models of reference-dependent preferences show that an individual's utility depends on the difference between the outcome and a "neutral" reference point. Our paper investigates how distance from reference points affects future performance. We find that round numbers and personal bests motivate runners and that missing the goal by a small amount improves future performance. For those who achieve their goal, future performance suffers slightly. In empirical analysis, we use an extensive panel of marathon data, which contains a past running history for every runner in our sample and allows us to estimate runners' ability and experience.		[Burdina, Mariya] Univ Cent Oklahoma, Dept Econ, 100 N Univ Dr, Edmond, OK 73034 USA; [Hiller, Scott] Fairfield Univ, Dept Econ, Fairfield, CT 06430 USA; [Burdina, Mariya] Univ Cent Oklahoma, Dept Econ, 100 N Univ Dr, Edmond, OK 73034 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000666610900001	24	Article; Article		
J	Tilden, Molly L.; Oberoi, Avleen R.; Wakeling, James M.								Canoe slalom C1 stroke technique during international competitions								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	10			1526	1539		10.1080/14763141.2021.1942968			OCT 2 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to compare the frequency and duration of on-side and off-side strokes and stroke transitions between male and female canoe slalom athletes during international competitions. We analysed 33 International Canoe Federation World Cup, World Championship and European Canoe Association Championship canoe slalom race videos, from 2018 to 2020, frame-by-frame. We recorded drive durations and transition durations for each race run. We also recorded the frequency of different stroke types and transition types used in each run. Stroke timing parameters differed between female and male athletes. We found that female athletes performed a significantly greater proportion of switch transitions and on-side strokes. Male athletes performed a significantly greater proportion of cross transitions and off-side strokes. Male athletes performed significantly faster cross transitions. On-on and off-off transition durations were significantly faster than cross transitions, and cross transitions were significantly faster than switch transitions. Females had a significantly longer drive duration and lower stroke frequency compared to males. Overall, stroke and drive durations of on-side strokes and off-side strokes were not significantly different. This study identifies stroke technique differences between male and female canoe slalom athletes which can be used as a basis for future research and training.		[Tilden, Molly L.; Oberoi, Avleen R.] Univ Fraser Valley, Sch Kinesiol, Chilliwack, BC, Canada; [Wakeling, James M.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Wakeling, James M.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Burnaby, BC, Canada								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000664359000001	8	Article; Article		
J	Luo, Lei; Qian, Tyreal Yizhou; Rich, Gregg; Zhang, James J.								Impact of market demand on recurring hallmark sporting event spectators: an empirical study of the Shanghai Masters								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	2			311	325		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2020-0218			APR 5 2022	2022	Purpose The current study was designed to (1) identify core and peripheral market demand for a recurring hallmark sporting event, testing their impact on event identification and behavioral intentions; and to (2) explore the effect of core and peripheral market demand on event identification between first-time and repeat spectators. Design/methodology/approach Research participants (N = 540) were spectators at the Shanghai Masters over a span of seven days. Data were analyzed using partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) and partial least squares multi-group analysis (PLS-MGA). Findings Significant, positive relationships were found between core market demand and event identification, and between core market demand and behavioral intentions. In contrast, peripheral market demand only had significant, positive effect on event identification; however, findings revealed that event identification fully mediated the relationships between peripheral market demand and behavioral intentions. Additionally, the effect of peripheral market demand on event identification was greater among first-time spectators than repeat spectators. Originality/value This study contributed to the application of PLS-SEM in sport management research by adopting a formative-formative hierarchical component model (HCM) to address the prevailing measurement model misspecification of market demand constructs. The findings highlighted the merits of promoting market demand associated with recurring hallmark sporting events and the importance of enhancing event identification through differential market penetration schemes across different spectator groups.		[Luo, Lei] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Qian, Tyreal Yizhou] Louisiana State Univ, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Rich, Gregg] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA USA; [Zhang, James J.] Univ Georgia, Kinesiol, Athens, GA USA; [Luo, Lei] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000664120900001	54	Article; Article		
J	Mastromartino, Brandon; Naraine, Michael L.								(Dis)Innovative digital strategy in professional sport: examining sponsor leveraging through social media								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	5			934	949		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2021-0032			SEP 21 2022	2022	Purpose The purpose of this study was to examine the effectiveness of social media strategies of sport organizations when an unexpected absence of relevant content occurs. The study explored the typologies of Instagram posts of NHL teams and measured engagement of social media content that was not planned in advance. Design/methodology/approach A mixed methods approach was utilized through a content analysis of 12 NHL team social media feeds. 502 (n = 502) posts were examined from the period of March 12 - May 26 during which the NHL season was suddenly paused due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Typologies of posts were identified through a qualitative coding process and ANOVA tests were conducted to examine the effectiveness of each typology in engaging consumers. Findings This study found that social media strategies of the sampled NHL teams is evidence of disinnovation with digital, as opposed to the previously conceptualized innovative properties that these activities bear. Therefore, in order to achieve the consumer engagement outcomes sought to build stronger relationships with fans and deliver on the expected leveraging capabilities for sponsors, sport marketers must reconsider their current, imbalanced approach and whether the more inherently interactive content should be balanced with entertaining content that requires organic consumer engagement. Originality/value This study offers a unique application of UGT, highlighting that social media in a sport context is not just about gratifying consumers, but preventing diminishing engagement and exploitation of users through overuse of sponsorship-laced content.		[Mastromartino, Brandon] Southern Methodist Univ, Dallas, TX 75205 USA; [Naraine, Michael L.] Brock Univ, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Mastromartino, Brandon] Southern Methodist Univ, Dallas, TX 75205 USA								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000663118500001	67	Article; Article		
J	Rice, Paige E.; Nishikawa, Kiisa; Nimphius, Sophia								Strength and power capabilities predict weighted parameter ranking of <i>saut de chat</i> leaping performance in dancers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	9			1176	1192		10.1080/14763141.2021.1933580			SEP 1 2024	2024	Limited research exists on the relationship between aesthetic saut de chat performance and muscle-tendon unit (MTU) characteristics of dancers. We developed a weighted parameter ranking (WPR) tool to incorporate aesthetic leaping aspects (i.e., height, peak split angle, average trunk angle and trunk angle range) for correlation with MTU properties. The purpose was to identify the relationship of saut de chat WPR and leap height with maximal plantarflexion strength, medial gastrocnemius (MG) stiffness, Achilles tendon (AT) stiffness and relative peak power (PP). Dancers (n = 18) performed maximal plantarflexion, short-range stretches and isometric ramping contractions on a dynamometer equipped with ultrasound to determine strength, MG stiffness and AT stiffness, respectively. Subjects then performed saut de chat leaps atop force platforms surrounded by motion capture cameras. A principal component analysis (PCA) was performed to compare WPR variable weightings with PCA results and rankings. Moderate-strong relationships were identified among WPR, maximal plantarflexion strength, MG stiffness and PP. Strong-very strong relationships were also identified between leap height and maximal plantarflexion strength, MG stiffness, AT stiffness, peak split angle and PP. A very strong correlation existed between PCA rankings and WPRs. Practitioners may consider developing strength and power capabilities in dancers to improve leaping.		[Rice, Paige E.; Nimphius, Sophia] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Nishikawa, Kiisa] No Arizona Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Box 5640, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA; [Rice, Paige E.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000663201600001	41	Article; Article		
J	Pletcher, Erin R.; Bordelon, Nicole M.; Oliver, Gretchen D.; Lovalekar, Mita; Gorse, Keith; Nagai, Takashi; Connaboy, Chris								The influence of a simulated game on muscular strength in female high-school and collegiate softball pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	9			1210	1218		10.1080/14763141.2021.1941229			SEP 1 2024	2024	Softball pitchers often pitch several games within a day and over consecutive days during a competitive season. High volumes of pitches thrown can decrease muscular strength, resulting in less proximal force generation and upper extremity compensation to maintain performance. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to assess upper and lower extremity muscular strength after pitching in a simulated game. Fourteen softball pitchers (17.9 +/- 2.3 years, 166.4 +/- 8.7 cm, 72.2 +/- 12.6 kg) completed baseline isokinetic strength assessment for knee, hip, trunk and pitching elbow flexion and extension as well as trunk rotation. Seven days later, participants pitched a simulated game consisting of 105 fastballs prior to repeating all strength assessments. Changes in muscular strength were assessed using paired samples t-tests, with significance set a priori as p <= 0.05. Normalised (%BW) stride leg knee extension peak torque was significantly higher (p = 0.020) post-simulated game (75.1 +/- 24.6%BW) as compared to baseline (64.0 +/- 19.5%BW) and trunk flexion peak torque was significantly higher (p = 0.009) post-simulated game (84.8 +/- 47.0%BW) as compared to baseline (63.5 +/- 47.1%BW). This study showed an increase in knee extension and trunk flexion strength after an acute bout of pitching. The findings give insight into muscular changes following pitching which can assist in appropriate softball training and recovery.		[Pletcher, Erin R.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Bordelon, Nicole M.; Oliver, Gretchen D.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Sports Med & Movement Lab, Auburn, AL USA; [Lovalekar, Mita; Connaboy, Chris] Univ Pittsburgh, Dept Sports Med & Nutr, Neuromuscular Res Lab, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Gorse, Keith] Duquesne Univ, Dept Athlet Training, Pittsburgh, PA 15219 USA; [Nagai, Takashi] Mayo Clin, Dept Orthoped Surg, Biomech Labs, Rochester, NY USA; [Pletcher, Erin R.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000662802500001	29	Article; Article		
J	Kozinc, Ziga; Sarabon, Nejc								Bilateral deficit in countermovement jump and its association with change of direction performance in basketball and tennis players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2021.1942965				2021	The purpose of this study was to assess the association between bilateral deficit (BLD) in countermovement jump and change of direction (CoD) performance. Therefore, 165 young basketball players (60 females) and 95 young tennis players (39 females) performed two different CoD tasks (90 degrees and 180 degrees turns) and bilateral and unilateral countermovement jumps. BLD was calculated based on jump height, peak power and several phase-specific force impulses (FI). For male athletes, several statistically significant small to moderate associations were found between the CoD performance and BLD (r = 0.21-0.52). While the BLD in the propulsive phase FI seems to be most consistently associated with CoD performance, all associations were weak (r = 0.21-0.28 in basketball, 0.28-0.36 in tennis). Associations between BLD in total positive (braking and propulsive phase) FI and CoD performance were moderate (r = 0.45-0.52) in male tennis players. For female athletes, the associations were even smaller and almost exclusively statistically non-significant. Although indirectly, our results imply that resistance training based on unilateral exercises could be useful to improve CoD performance. It has to be stressed that further training studies are needed to directly confirm this assumption.		[Kozinc, Ziga; Sarabon, Nejc] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Izola, Slovenia; [Kozinc, Ziga] Univ Primorska, Andrej Marusic Inst, Koper, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] InnoRenew CoE, Human Hlth Dept, Izola, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Sci Practice Ltd, Lab Motor Control & Motor Behav, S2P, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Izola, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] InnoRenew CoE, Human Hlth Dept, Izola, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Sci Practice Ltd, Lab Motor Control & Motor Behav, S2P, Ljubljana, Slovenia								23							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000662087900001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Powell, D.; Wood, G.; Kearney, P. E.; Payton, C.								Skill acquisition practices of coaches on the British Para swimming World Class Programme								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1097	1110	17479541211026248	10.1177/17479541211026248			OCT 2021	2021	This study set out to gain insight into the practices adopted by elite level Paralympic swimming coaches and to shed light on the knowledge and rationale underpinning their approaches. Coaching sessions were delivered by nine senior coaches from the British Para swimming (BPS) World Class Programme. A coaching session was observed from each coach and a semi-structured interview was recorded and transcribed to explore their intentions and rationale for the structure and content of the session delivered. Results indicated that coaches: (i) predominantly emphasised internal focus instruction and feedback cues, (ii) incorporated relatively low levels of between-skill variability and higher levels of within-skill variability, and (iii) applied mostly explicit learning techniques such as part-task training and verbal feedback, but also incorporated some implicit learning techniques such as analogies and constraints-based learning. Interview data indicated coaches had limited knowledge of key skill acquisition principles. The study serves to highlight potential gaps in understanding on the side of both research and applied practice in the hope of facilitating future collaborations between coaches and skill acquisition practitioners.		[Powell, D.; Wood, G.; Payton, C.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Res Ctr Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Kearney, P. E.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Powell, D.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Res Ctr Musculoskeletal Sci & Sports Med, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000664687100001	63	Article; Article		
J	Tiernan, Caoimhe; Comyns, Thomas; Lyons, Mark; Nevill, Alan M.; Warrington, Giles								The association between training load indices and upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs) in elite soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			151	160	17479541211020479	10.1177/17479541211020479			FEB 2022	2022	This study aimed to investigate the association between training load indices and Upper Respiratory Tract Infection (URTI) across different lag periods in elite soccer players. Internal training load was collected from 15 elite soccer players over one full season (40 weeks). Acute, chronic, Acute:Chronic Workload Ratio (ACWR), Exponentially Weighted Moving Averages (EWMA) ACWR, 2, 3 and 4-week cumulative load, training strain and training monotony were calculated on a rolling weekly basis. Players completed a daily illness log, documenting any signs and symptoms, to help determine an URTI. Multilevel logistic regression was used to analyze the associations between training load indices and URTIs across different lag periods (1 to 7-days). The results found a significant association between 2-week cumulative load and an increased likelihood of a player contracting an URTI 3 days later (Odds Ratio, 95% Confidence Interval: OR = 2.07, 95% CI = 0.026-1.431). Additionally, a significant association was found between 3-week cumulative load and a players' increased risk of contracting an URTI 4 days later (OR = 1.66, 95% CI = 0.013-1.006). These results indicate that accumulated periods of high training load (2- and 3-week) associated with an increased risk of a player contracting an URTI, which may lead to performance decrements, missed training sessions or even competitions.		[Tiernan, Caoimhe; Comyns, Thomas; Lyons, Mark; Warrington, Giles] Univ Limerick, Phys Educ & Sport Sci Dept, Limerick, Ireland; [Tiernan, Caoimhe; Comyns, Thomas; Warrington, Giles] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Nevill, Alan M.] Univ Wolverhampton, Inst Sport & Human Sci, Wolverhampton, England; [Tiernan, Caoimhe] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci PESS, P1-039, Limerick, Ireland								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000664702600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Edwards, Suzi; Tahu, Timana; Buchanan, Matthew; Tucker, Ross; Fuller, Gordon; Gardner, Andrew J.								Three-dimensional mechanics of the rugby tackle, does the ball carrier alter their movement into contact in response to the tackler's position?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			298	308	17479541211024022	10.1177/17479541211024022			APR 2022	2022	In rugby league and rugby union, the ball carrier is vulnerable to injury during a tackle. The height of the tackle has been associated with injury risk. The extent to which a ball carrier may alter their approach entering a tackle in response the tackler's body height is unknown. This exploratory study aimed to identify if, when and how, the ball carrier modified their motion when being tackled in response to tackling instructions given to the tackler. Three-dimensional analysis was completed on 15 adult male rugby union/league players performing a front-on, one-on-one tackle at differing tackle heights. Repeated measure factorial analyses of variance were used to test for differences (P < 0.05). The ball carrier used two movement strategies: (1) increasing their stability by flexing their trunk, knee, and hips more when entering mid/high torso tackles; (2) offloading the ball or performing an evasive movement strategy by positioning themselves in a more upright body position when being tackled at a lower torso tackle height. This preliminary evidence suggests it may be beneficial for a coach to provide different instructions to the ball carrier to modify their movement strategies when being tackled in response to the height of the tackler to improve their performance and decrease their potential injury risk.		[Edwards, Suzi; Tahu, Timana; Buchanan, Matthew] Univ Newcastle, Sch Environm & Life Sci, 10 Chittaway Rd, Ourimbah, NSW 2258, Australia; [Edwards, Suzi; Gardner, Andrew J.] Univ Newcastle, Prior Res Ctr Stroke & Brain Injury, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Edwards, Suzi] Univ Newcastle, Prior Res Ctr Phys Act & Nutr, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Tucker, Ross] World Rugby Pty Ltd, Dublin, Ireland; [Fuller, Gordon] Univ Sheffield, Sch Hlth & Related Res, Emergency Med Res Sheffield Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Gardner, Andrew J.] Univ Newcastle, Sch Med & Publ Hlth, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Gardner, Andrew J.] Hunter New England Local Hlth Dist Sports Concuss, Newcastle, NSW, Australia; [Edwards, Suzi] Univ Newcastle, Sch Environm & Life Sci, 10 Chittaway Rd, Ourimbah, NSW 2258, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000664275500001	38	Article; Article		
J	Fasold, Frowin; Noel, Benjamin; Nicklas, Andre; Lukac, Fabian; Klatt, Stefanie								Effects of ball properties on throwing in young team-handball beginners								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	2			385	390	17479541211023658	10.1177/17479541211023658			APR 2022	2022	Throwing a ball is a primary skill in team-handball and can be directly influenced by the properties of different types of balls. Therefore, the use of different balls (i.e., methodic ball) recommended by the handball federations (e.g., IHF) and the education guidelines, are important in teaching throwing. Previous studies have shown that movement patterns and throwing velocity can be influenced by different ball types and sizes. However, the influence of these factors on throwing accuracy has not been investigated in detail yet. This study aims to replicate the findings of previous studies on increasing throwing velocity in children by comparing the use of a soft methodic ball with a size 0 handball. Furthermore, this study investigates the influence of these balls on throwing accuracy. In an experimental study, participants (10-years of age) threw a soft methodic ball and a size 0 ball at target areas in a handball goal. For all the throws, throwing velocity and accuracy were measured. Commensurate with previous research, throwing velocity was higher for the soft methodic ball compared to a size 0 ball. No difference was found in accuracy, although, it is worth mentioning that the participants were only experienced in throwing using the size 0 ball. Moreover, only one-third of the children favored throwing with a size 0 ball, which is what they are used to in training and competition. The results of our study, therefore, confirm that using soft methodic balls additionally, positively influences the throwing velocity and has no negative effect on the accuracy in throwing among young handball beginners.		[Fasold, Frowin; Noel, Benjamin; Nicklas, Andre; Lukac, Fabian; Klatt, Stefanie] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Klatt, Stefanie] Univ Rostock, Inst Sports Sci, Rostock, Germany; [Fasold, Frowin] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000664275700001	23	Article; Article		
J	Morrissey, Patrick J.; Zhou, Jack J.; Shah, Neil V.; Torre, Barrett B.; Dekis, Joanne C.; Newman, Jared M.; Connors, Katherine M.; Urban, William P.								Epidemiology of female youth ice hockey injuries presenting to United States emergency departments from 2002 to 2019								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	5			388	393		10.1080/00913847.2021.1932635			SEP 3 2022	2022	Background: This study documented injury types, rates and mechanisms for female youth ice hockey players reporting to US emergency departments to inform safety measures and sideline medical preparedness. Methods: The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database was queried for ice hockey injuries (product code 1279) from 1 January 2002 to 31 December 2019. Incidence rate ratios (IRR) were calculated using OpenEpi and compared between age divisions. Spearman's rank correlation was utilized to evaluate the correlation between age and injury incidence. USA Hockey membership statistics were used to establish the population at risk and calculate incidence rates (IR). Results: An estimated 20,384 ice hockey injuries presented to participating United States emergency departments. The number of female youth ice hockey players increased significantly from 36,258 in 2002 to 65,072 in 2019 (p < 0.01). The most commonly injured body parts were the head (n = 5,519, IR = 62.1 [95%CI 54.3-70.0 per 10,000 athletes), trunk (n = 2,364, IR = 26.6 [95%CI 21.2-32.0] per 10,000 athletes), and wrist (n = 1,824, IR = 20.5 [95%CI 15.7-25.4] per 10,000 athletes). The most commonly reported mechanisms of injury were player-to-player collision (n = 4,746, IR = 53.4 [95%CI 46.4-60.5] per 10,000 athletes) and falls (n = 4,585, IR = 51.6 [95%CI 44.1-59.1] per 10,000 athletes). The most common diagnoses were traumatic brain injury (n = 5,333, IR = 60.0 [95%CI 52.3-67.8] per 10,000 athletes), contusion (n = 4,204, IR = 47.3 [95%CI 40.3-54.4] per 10,000 athletes) and strain/sprain (n = 3,601, IR = 40.5 [95%CI 34.1-47.0] per 10,000 athletes). A positive correlation was found between age and injury incidence, as well as increasing age and injuries from player-to-player collision and TBI's. Conclusions: Though body checking is illegal at all levels of women's ice hockey, player-to-player collision prevailed as the leading mechanism on injury. Hopefully this study informs players, parents, coaches, trainers and clinicians about the impact of player-to-player collisions on overall injury burden in the older age divisions of youth female hockey.		[Morrissey, Patrick J.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Zhou, Jack J.; Shah, Neil V.; Torre, Barrett B.; Dekis, Joanne C.; Newman, Jared M.; Connors, Katherine M.; Urban, William P.] Suny Downstate Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil Med, Brooklyn, NY 11203 USA; [Morrissey, Patrick J.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02912 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000659330800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan; Gutierrez-Garcia, Luis; Zapardiel, Juan Carlos; Chena, Marcos								Structure of the training program during the COVID-19 confinement in spanish professional football, a coach survey								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	5			380	387		10.1080/00913847.2021.1932633			SEP 3 2022	2022	COVID-19 has produced an exceptional situation for sport due to confinement and restrictions. The usual training programs and competition have been interrupted in world football, requiring an adaptation of training to the new situation. Objectives: To describe and analyze the training programs carried out during the COVID-19 forced confinement in men ' s professional football in Spain. Methods: Observational Study based on a telematic ad-hoc questionnaire developed to meet the objective of the study. The sample consisted of thirty-six coaches representing thirty-six professional men's soccer teams in the Spanish first and second division. Results: Training programs developed during confinement prioritized conditioning and functional emphasis, in addition to general and nonspecific resistance training, due to contextual limitations. Conclusion: The structure of training during the COVID-19 confinement was limited by contextual circumstances. This study has made possible to record the training and strategies used in professional football during a confinement due to a worldwide state of alarm, with the aim of resuming competitive activity in the best possible conditions.		[Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan; Gutierrez-Garcia, Luis; Zapardiel, Juan Carlos; Chena, Marcos] Univ Alcala, Dept Biomed Sci, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Zapardiel, Juan Carlos] Consejo Deportes Comunidad Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Asin-Izquierdo, Ivan] Univ Alcala, Dept Biomed Sci, Ivan Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Ctra Madrid Barcelona,Km 33,600, Madrid 28871, Spain								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000659344300001	45	Article; Article		
J	Wasserberger, Kyle W.; Giordano, Kevin A.; de Swart, Anne; Barfield, Jeff W.; Oliver, Gretchen D.								Energy generation, absorption, and transfer at the shoulder and elbow in youth baseball pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	9			1160	1175		10.1080/14763141.2021.1933158			SEP 1 2024	2024	Performance during the baseball pitch is dependent on the flow of mechanical energy through the kinetic chain. Little is known about energy flow during the pitching motion and it is not known whether patterns of energy flow are related to pitching performance and injury risk. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to quantify energy generation, absorption, and transfer across the shoulder and elbow during the baseball pitch and explore the associations between these energetic measures, pitch speed, and traditional measures of upper extremity joint loading. The kinematics of 40 youth baseball pitchers were measured in a controlled laboratory setting. Energy flow between the thorax, humerus, and forearm was calculated using a segmental power analysis. Regression analyses revealed that pitch speed was best predicted by arm cocking phase shoulder energy transfer to the humerus and peak elbow valgus torque was best predicted by arm acceleration-phase elbow energy transfer to the forearm. Additionally, energy transfer across the shoulder and elbow generally exhibited the strongest correlations to pitch speed and upper extremity joint loads. These data reinforce the importance of energy transfer through the kinetic chain for producing high pitch speeds and provide descriptive data for energy flow during baseball pitching not previously found in the literature.		[Wasserberger, Kyle W.; Giordano, Kevin A.; de Swart, Anne; Barfield, Jeff W.; Oliver, Gretchen D.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Sports Med & Movement Lab, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Oliver, Gretchen D.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Sports Med & Movement Lab, Auburn, AL 36849 USA								21							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000658931600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Nicholson, Ben; Dinsdale, Alex; Jones, Ben; Heyward, Omar; Till, Kevin								Sprint development practices in elite football code athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			95	113	17479541211019687	10.1177/17479541211019687			FEB 2022	2022	Despite the importance and complexity of developing sprint performance in football code athletes, there are limited studies exploring practitioners' practices to improves Sprinting. Therefore, this study aimed to describe and evaluate the practices used with elite football code athletes to develop sprint performance. Ninety subjects completed a survey comprised of four sections (coaching demographic, evaluation of training, organisation of training, and training protocols). Survey responses showed that 98% of practitioners monitor sprint performance, and 92% integrated monitoring strategies into sprint development programmes to inform training. All practitioners used combined training methods including specific (e.g., sprints with or without overload) and non-specific (e.g., strength training or plyometrics) methods targeting the underpinning determinants of sprint performance. Most practitioners reported prescribing 1-3 or 2-4 days center dot wk(-1) for sprint development, both in-season and pre-season. Sprint development programmes were uncommon in the off-season. Most specific sprint training sessions were reportedly shorter in duration (5-15 and 15-30min) than non-specific sprint training methods (30-45 and >45min) irrespective of the season phases. Sprint development was integrated before and after sport-specific training, regularly using warm-ups and gym sessions. Specific training methods were also implemented in separate sessions. The specific content (e.g., exercise selection, training load prescription) was highly variable between practitioners. This study represents the first detailed survey (practices and justification) of sprint development practices (evaluation and organisation of training protocols) in football code cohorts. These findings present multiple methods of structuring, integrating and manipulating sprint training based on the training aims and the individual context.		[Nicholson, Ben; Dinsdale, Alex; Jones, Ben; Heyward, Omar; Till, Kevin] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, W Yorkshire, England; [Nicholson, Ben] Yorkshire Carnegie Rugby Union Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Nicholson, Ben; Jones, Ben; Till, Kevin] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Jones, Ben] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben] Sports Sci Inst South Africa, Cape Town, South Africa; [Heyward, Omar] Rugby Football Union, London, England; [Nicholson, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, W Yorkshire, England								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000661599400001	47	Article; Article		
J	Thng, Shiqi; Pearson, Simon; Rathbone, Evelyne; Keogh, Justin W. L.								Longitudinal tracking of body composition, lower limb force-time characteristics and swimming start performance in high performance swimmers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			83	94	17479541211021401	10.1177/17479541211021401			FEB 2022	2022	This study aimed to (1) track changes in body composition, lower body force-time characteristics, and swim start performance over a competitive season, and (2) investigate the intra-individual associations between changes in body composition and lower body force-time characteristics to swim start performance in five high performance swimmers (three males, two females). Over a similar to 12-month period, body composition, lower body force-time characteristics and swim start performance were assessed at three time points via DXA scan, squat jump and swim start performance test (start times to 5 and 15 m and several kinematic and kinetic outputs). Throughout a competitive season of concurrent swimming and dry-land resistance training, improvements in lower body lean mass and squat jump force-time characteristics were observed. However, changes in start times varied between athletes. Total body and lower body lean mass both displayed large negative correlations with the time spent in the entry and propulsive underwater phases (r = -0.57 to -0.66), along with a large positive correlations with glide time (r = 0.56-0.53). Additionally, lower body lean mass exhibited large to very large positive correlations with the flight phase (r = 0.70-0.73). Overall, these findings provide some insight into the potential magnitude of change in body composition, lower body force-time characteristics and swim start performance in high performance swimmers within a season. The large to very large correlations between increased lower body lean mass and SJ force-time metrics to improvements in aspects of start performance may provide useful information to coaches and sports scientists.		[Thng, Shiqi; Rathbone, Evelyne; Keogh, Justin W. L.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Thng, Shiqi; Pearson, Simon] Queensland Acad Sport, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Ctr New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Fac Sci Hlth Educ & Engn, Cluster Hlth Improvement, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] Manipal Acad Higher Educ, Kasturba Med Coll, Manipal, Karnataka, India; [Thng, Shiqi] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000661597700001	43	Article; Article		
J	Obana, Kyle K.; Mueller, John D.; Zhong, Jack R.; Saltzman, Bryan M.; Lynch, T. Sean; Parisien, Robert L.; Ahmad, Christopher S.; Trofa, David P.								Targeting rule implementation decreases neck injuries in high school football: a national injury surveillance study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	4			338	342		10.1080/00913847.2021.1932630			JUL 4 2022	2022	Objectives: Neck injuries in football are attributed to helmet-to-helmet contact with youth players being at greatest risk. In 2014, the National Federation of State High School Associations (NFHS) implemented rules defining illegal contact against a defenseless player above the shoulders to reduce head and neck injuries in football players. This study evaluates whether rule implementation decreased rates of high school football neck injuries presenting to the emergency department (ED) pre-rule implementation (2009-2013) to post-rule implementation (2015-2019). Methods: Data were queried from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System for high school football players 14 to 18 years old diagnosed with a neck injury from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2019. Narratives in the data were reviewed for mechanism of injury, setting, loss of consciousness (LOC), and type of injury. Results: Between 2009 and 2019, an estimated 47,577 high school football neck injuries were diagnosed in EDs across the United States. 52.0% of neck injuries were sustained during competition compared to 48.0% during practice. A statistically significant (P = 0.004) decrease in neck injuries was realized from pre-rule implementation to post-rule implementation with averages of 5,278 and 3,481 injuries per year, respectively. Helmet-to-helmet neck injuries significantly (P = 0.04) decreased from pre- to post-rule implementation with averages of 851 and 508 injuries per year, respectively. Neck injuries sustained via other mechanisms were not affected by the 2014 rule implementation. Conclusion: This study is the first to identify a decrease in overall and helmet-to-helmet related neck injuries diagnosed in the ED following the 2014 NFHS targeting rule implementation. These findings add to the growing literature regarding the importance and efficacy of rule implementation in reducing sports-related neck injuries.		[Obana, Kyle K.] John A Burns Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Honolulu, HI USA; [Obana, Kyle K.; Mueller, John D.; Zhong, Jack R.; Lynch, T. Sean; Ahmad, Christopher S.; Trofa, David P.] Columbia Univ, Med Ctr, New York Presbyterian, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 622 West 168th St,PH 11-1130, New York, NY 10032 USA; [Saltzman, Bryan M.] OrthoCarolina, Sports Med Ctr, Charlotte, NC USA; [Parisien, Robert L.] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Parisien, Robert L.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA USA; [Trofa, David P.] Columbia Univ, Med Ctr, New York Presbyterian, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 622 West 168th St,PH 11-1130, New York, NY 10032 USA								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000657948700001	24	Article; Article		
J	Salter, Jamie; Cumming, Sean; Hughes, Jonathan D.; De Ste Croix, Mark								Estimating somatic maturity in adolescent soccer players: Methodological comparisons								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			11	17	17479541211020418	10.1177/17479541211020418			FEB 2022	2022	Purpose Monitoring maturation facilitates effective talent development. Various methods of maturity estimation exist with limited knowledge of concordance between methods. This study aims to establish agreement between methods of varied constructs to predict maturity status and compare concordance of methods to categorise players using established thresholds. Methods This study compared four maturity equations using anthropometrical data from 113 male adolescent soccer players (mean +/- SD; age, 14.3 +/- 1 years) from two academies. Conservative (+/- 1 year) and less conservative (+/- 0.5 years) circa-PHV thresholds were employed. Results Analysis indicates tight (+/- 0.3 year) agreement between maturity offset methods (MO), but broader agreement between MO and predicted adult height methods (-1.5 to 1 year). However, Kappa Cohen k suggests moderate to substantial (44%-67%) and fair to moderate (31%-60%) concordance between methods when using the conservative and less conservative circa-PHV thresholds respectively. Conclusion Despite MO equation iterations claiming to reduce systematic error, they provide very similar estimations. Additionally, practitioners should not use maturity offset and predicted adult height methods interchangeably and are encouraged to apply either method consistently when looking to estimate maturity status or biologically calssify players.		[Salter, Jamie] York St John Univ, Sch Sci Technol & Hlth, York YO31 7EX, N Yorkshire, England; [Salter, Jamie; Hughes, Jonathan D.; De Ste Croix, Mark] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Cumming, Sean] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Salter, Jamie] York St John Univ, Sch Sci Technol & Hlth, York YO31 7EX, N Yorkshire, England								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000657985500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Lobinger, Babett H.; Eckardt, Valeria C.; Lautenbach, Franziska								Three perspectives on parental support in youth soccer: Children, parents, and coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			886	899	17479541211011553	10.1177/17479541211011553			AUG 2021	2021	The aim of the research project was to gain an in-depth understanding of how children, coaches, and parents in youth soccer perceive parental support. In a preliminary study, a questionnaire was developed to assess satisfaction with parental support and sideline behavior in soccer. The multisection questionnaire was adapted to all three parties of interest-children, parents, and coaches-and administered to 260 parents, 196 coaches, and 111 male players aged 12-14 years across different clubs to identify factors influencing satisfaction with parental behavior across all three groups. Factor analysis led to a revised version of the questionnaire, emphasizing the importance of emotional support. The revised questionnaire was implemented in two consecutive field studies. Samples were drawn from an amateur youth soccer setting (Study 2, N = 316, players aged 8-13 years) and a professional youth academy (Study 3, N = 209, players aged 9-16 years). Overall, results indicate children and parents were highly satisfied with parental support and sideline behavior but coaches' satisfaction differed significantly. The discussion therefore includes all three perspectives and provides recommendations on how to improve the coach-parent relationship and professional engagement with parents.		[Lobinger, Babett H.; Eckardt, Valeria C.; Lautenbach, Franziska] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Psychol, Dept Performance Psychol, Cologne, Germany; [Lautenbach, Franziska] Univ Leipzig, Inst Sport Psychol & Sport Pedag, Sport Psychol, Leipzig, Germany; [Lautenbach, Franziska] Humboldt Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Sport Psychol, Berlin, Germany; [Lobinger, Babett H.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Psychol, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000657985400001	56	Article; Article		
J	Marinho, Daniel A.; Willemsen, Dennis; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Silva, Antonio Jose; Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo; Neiva, Henrique P.; Forte, Pedro								Numerical simulations of a swimmer's head and cap wearing different types of goggles								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	9			1123	1135		10.1080/14763141.2021.1923793			SEP 1 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to analyse the effect of swimming goggles on swimming hydrodynamics by numerical simulations. An elite swimmer volunteered for this research. The swimmer's head was scanned both without goggles, and while wearing 3 different types of goggles (Nikko, Ankor and Swedish). Numerical simulations were conducted at 2 m/s with the Fluent code. The condition without goggles showed the highest viscous drag (1.65 N), followed by the Ankor (1.64 N), Swedish (1.63 N) and Nikko (1.62 N) goggles, respectively. The highest pressure drag was found in the situation without goggles (11.34 N), followed by the Ankor (10.87 N), Nikko (10.78 N) and Swedish (10.20 N) goggles. The condition without goggles presented the highest total drag (12.99 N), followed by the Ankor (12.52 N), Nikko (12.40 N) and Swedish (11.83 N) goggles. Thus, Swedish goggles yields the best hydrodynamics, followed by the Nikko and Ankor goggles and lastly without goggles. Thus, goggles minimise the swimmer's drag comparing to not wearing any. The design of the goggles may impose varying drag forces and therefore it is advised to use goggles at least in competition.		[Marinho, Daniel A.; Neiva, Henrique P.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sports Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Willemsen, Dennis] Eindhoven Univ Technol, Dept Appl Phys, Eindhoven, Netherlands; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Inst Politecn Braganca, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Braganca, Portugal; [Silva, Antonio Jose] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Dept Sports Sci, Vila Real, Portugal; [Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport FADEUP CIFI2D, Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP, Porto, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Silva, Antonio Jose; Neiva, Henrique P.; Forte, Pedro] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal; [Forte, Pedro] Douro Higher Inst Educ Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Penafiel, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sports Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000657618100001	39	Article; Article		
J	LaPlaca, David A.; Seedman, Joel								The Importance of the Foot and Ankle in Athletic Performance								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	3			67	79		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000598			JUN 2021	2021	Many strength and conditioning specialists prescribe exercises that use the major extensor muscles in the leg and thigh to help their athletes develop lower-body strength and power. Although this is important, an often neglected focus is specifically using and training the foot and ankle, which has shown to affect athletic performance. The purpose of this article is to: (a) provide the reader with researched information on how the foot and ankle impact athletic performance, and (b) provide practical applications for how to improve the function of the foot and ankle.		[LaPlaca, David A.] Evolve Fitness Strength & Conditioning, Audubon, NJ 08106 USA; [Seedman, Joel] Adv Human Performance, Suwanee, GA USA; [LaPlaca, David A.] Evolve Fitness Strength & Conditioning, Audubon, NJ 08106 USA								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711774600006	79	Article; Article		
J	Pistilli, Emidio E.; Mitchell, Mikaela; Florence, Lindsey								Incorporating Unilateral Variations of Weightlifting and Powerlifting Movements Into the Training Program of College-Level Dancers to Improve Stability								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	3			1	8		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000612			JUN 2021	2021	Properly structured resistance training can induce sport-specific neuromuscular adaptations, such as muscular strength, power, neuromuscular coordination, and joint range of motion in competitive athletes. Adapting traditional weightlifting and powerlifting-associated resistance exercises to be performed unilaterally can also be used to enhance stability. The purpose of this training program is to introduce weightlifting and powerlifting-associated exercises to members of a college-level dance team, with the goal to incorporate unilateral variations of these exercises to enhance stability in preparation for a dance performance. The training program follows the phases of periodization, with unilateral training occurring in the peak phase just before the performance.		[Pistilli, Emidio E.; Mitchell, Mikaela] West Virginia Univ, Sch Med, Div Exercise Physiol, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Florence, Lindsey] West Virginia Univ, Dance Team, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Pistilli, Emidio E.] West Virginia Univ, Sch Med, Div Exercise Physiol, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711774600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Till, Kevin; Eisenmann, Joe; Emmonds, Stacey; Jones, Ben; Mitchell, Tom; Cowburn, Ian; Tee, Jason; Holmes, Neil; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								A Coaching Session Framework to Facilitate Long-Term Athletic Development								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	3			43	55		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000558			JUN 2021	2021	The implementation of long-term athletic development (LTAD) aims to improve health, physical activity, and performance of all youth. Contemporary LTAD models suggest that a broad range of physical and psychosocial competencies should be developed in youth, but few resources are available for coaches that describe "how" to achieve these outcomes. This article overviews a coaching session framework built around the following components: raise, activate, mobilize, prepare, activity, games, evaluate (RAMPAGE). The framework provides practitioners with information on what can be planned and delivered and when within a coaching session, across multiple ages and stages of development within multiple contexts (e.g., physical education and talent development).		[Till, Kevin; Eisenmann, Joe; Emmonds, Stacey; Jones, Ben; Mitchell, Tom; Cowburn, Ian; Holmes, Neil] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin; Jones, Ben] Leeds Rhinos RLFC, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Emmonds, Stacey] Rugby Football League, England Womens Rugby League, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Jones, Ben] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben] Sports Sci Inst South Africa, Cape Town, South Africa; [Mitchell, Tom] Doncaster Rovers FC, Doncaster, England; [Tee, Jason] Durban Univ Technol, Dept Sport Studies, Durban, South Africa; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Till, Kevin] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin] Leeds Rhinos RLFC, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711774600004	69	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert; Dulla, Joseph; Orr, Robin; Dawes, Jay								Importance of Ability-Based Training for Law Enforcement Recruits								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	3			80	90		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000583			JUN 2021	2021	A number of research studies have indicated a wide variation in the physical fitness of law enforcement recruits before academy training. This article provides a literature review regarding current training practices, and the associated limitations, specific to recruits during academy. Collectively, this information indicates the need for ability-based, individualized training for recruits during academy, which is not always the model adopted for a variety of reasons. Practical applications relative to this analysis, in addition to examples for aerobic/anaerobic conditioning and resistance training programs, are presented. These programs feature exercises that are modifiable depending on the fitness of recruits.		[Lockie, Robert] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Dulla, Joseph] Los Angeles Cty Sheriffs Dept Los Angeles, Recruit Training Unit, Los Angeles, CA USA; [Orr, Robin] Bond Univ, Bond Inst Hlth & Sport, Tact Res Unit, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Dawes, Jay] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Lockie, Robert] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000711774600007	74	Article; Article		
J	Power, Gerard M. J.; Colwell, Emily; Saeterbakken, Atle Hole; Drinkwater, Eric J.; Behm, David G.								Lack of Evidence for Non-Local Muscle Fatigue and Performance Enhancement in Young Adults								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			339	348		10.52082/jssm.2021.339			JUN 2021	2021	Post-activation performance enhancement (PAPE) is an improvement to voluntary muscle performance following a conditioning activity. There is evidence of fatigue resistance deficits in non-exercised muscles following unilateral fatiguing exercise of a contralateral muscle. The purpose of this study was to determine if a unilateral conditioning exercise protocol could induce PAPE in a contralateral, non-exercised muscle in young healthy adults. Thirty-two recreationally trained (n = 16) and athletically trained (n = 16) participants (16 males; age: 22.9 +/- 2.03 years; height: 1.81 +/- 0.06 m; weight: 82.8 +/- 9.43 kg, and 16 females; age: 23.1 +/- 2.80 years; height: 1.67 +/- 0.07 m; weight: 66.4 +/- 11.09 kg) were randomly allocated into two groups (dominant or non-dominant limb intervention). The experimental intervention, involved a conditioning exercise (4-repetitions of 5-seconds knee extension maximal voluntary isometric contractions: MVIC) with either the dominant (DOM) (n = 16) or non-dominant (ND) (n = 16) knee extensors with testing of the same (exercised) or contralateral (non-exercised) leg as well as a control (no conditioning exercise: n = 32) condition. Testing was performed before, 1-minute and 10-minutes after a high intensity, low volume, conditioning protocol (2 sets of 2x5-s MVIC). Pre- and post-testing included MVIC force and F100 (force developed in the first 100 ms: a proxy measure of rate of force development) and unilateral drop jump (DJ) height and contact time. There were no significant MVIC peak force or EMG nor DJ height or contact time interactions (intervention x limb dominance x time). The pre-test (0.50 +/- 0.13) dominant leg MVIC F100 forces exceeded (p = 0.02) both post-test and post-10 min by a small magnitude 8.7% (d = 0.31). There was also a significant (p = 0.02) time x intervention leg x testing leg intervention, although it was observed that the control condition was as likely to demonstrate small to large magnitude changes as were the dominant and non-dominant legs. Following the conditioning activity, there was no significant evidence for non-local improvements (PAPE), or performance decreases.		[Power, Gerard M. J.; Colwell, Emily; Drinkwater, Eric J.; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Saeterbakken, Atle Hole] Western Norway Univ Appl Sci, Inst Sports, Vestland, Norway; [Drinkwater, Eric J.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sports Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900019	64	Article; Article		
J	Sarabon, Nejc; Kozinc, Ziga; Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Knezevic, Olivera M.; Coh, Milan; Mirkov, Dragan M.								Reliability of Sprint Force-Velocity-Power Profiles Obtained with KiSprint System								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			357	364		10.52082/jssm.2021.357			JUN 2021	2021	This study aimed to assess the within- and between-session reliability of the KiSprint system for determining force-velocity-power (FVP) profiling during sprint running. Thirty (23 males, 7 females; 18.7 +/- 2.6 years;) young high-level sprinters performed maximal effort sprints in two sessions separated by one week. Split times (5, 10, 20 and 30 m), which were recorded with a laser distance meter (a component of the KiSprint system), were used to determine the horizontal FVP profile using the Samozino's field-based method. This method assesses the FVP relationships through estimates of the step-averaged ground reaction forces in sagittal plane during sprint acceleration using only anthropometric and spatiotemporal (split times) data. We also calculated the maximal theoretical power, force and velocity capabilities and the slope of the FV relationship, the maximal ratio of horizontal-to-resultant force (RF), and the decrease in the RF (D-RF). Overall, the results showed moderate or good to excellent within- and between-session reliability for all variables (ICC > 0.75; CV < 10 %), with the exception of FV slope and D-RF that showed low relative reliability (ICC = 0.47-0.48 within session, 0.31-0.33 between-session) and unacceptable between-session absolute reliability values (CV = 10.9-11.1 %). Future studies are needed to optimize the protocol in order to maximize the reliability of the FVP variables, especially when practitioners are interested in the FV slope and D-RF. In summary, our results question the utility of the sprint-based FVP profiling for individualized training prescription, since the reliability of the FV slope and D RF variables is highly questionable.		[Sarabon, Nejc; Kozinc, Ziga] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Polje 42, SI-6310 Izola, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc; Kozinc, Ziga] Univ Primorska, Andrej Marusic Inst, Izola, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] InnoRenew CoE, Human Hlth Dept, Koper, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Sci Practice Ltd, S2P, Lab Motor Control & Motor Behav, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Concepcion, Chile; [Knezevic, Olivera M.] Univ Belgrade, Inst Med Res, Belgrade, Serbia; [Coh, Milan] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Mirkov, Dragan M.] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Belgrade, Serbia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Polje 42, SI-6310 Izola, Slovenia								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900021	33	Article; Article		
J	Peng, Yi-Chien; Hsu, Chung-Yuan; Tang, Wen-Tzu								Deficits in the Star Excursion Balance Test and Golf Performance in Elite Golfers with Chronic Low Back Pain								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			229	236		10.52082/jssm.2021.229			JUN 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to investigate whether low-handicap elite golfers with chronic low back pain (CLBP) exhibit deficits in dynamic postural control and whether CLBP affects golfers in terms of their golf swing parameters. A total of fifteen Division 1 college golfers were recruited as participants. Of these, six of whom experienced CLBP, while the remaining participants were healthy. In this study, CLBP was defined as experiencing chronic pain symptoms for more than six months. The Star Excursion Balance Test (SEBT) was administered to examine dynamic posture control in both groups. The TrackMan Golf Launch Monitor Simulator was used to collect data on the performance parameters of the swing of the participants. The results for both feet in the medial, lateral, posterior, posteromedial, and posterolateral directions indicated that the CLBP group scored lower than the control group. However, the CLBP group scored higher for the right foot in the anterolateral direction. The parameters for the club speed and ball carry of the CLBP group were lower than those of the control group. Further, the CLBP group exhibited a more upright swing plane relative to the control group. Taken together, our findings suggest that SEBT may be feasible and highly accessible to assess golf swing performance of elite players with CLBP.		[Peng, Yi-Chien] Natl Cheng Kung Univ NCKU, Phys Educ Off, Tainan, Taiwan; [Peng, Yi-Chien; Hsu, Chung-Yuan; Tang, Wen-Tzu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ NTSU, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Hsu, Chung-Yuan] Taoyuan Chang Gung Mem Hosp, Ctr Tradit Chinese Med, Div Chinese Acupuncture & Traumatol, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Tang, Wen-Tzu] Natl Taiwan Sports Univ, Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, 250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan 33301, Taiwan								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900007	33	Article; Article		
J	Hausen, Matheus; Freire, Raul; Machado, Andrea B.; Pereira, Glauber R.; Millet, Gregoire P.; Itaborahy, Alex								Maximal and Submaximal Cardiorespiratory Responses to a Novel Graded Karate Test								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			310	316		10.52082/jssm.2021.310			JUN 2021	2021	The present study aimed to propose and assess the physiological responses of a novel graded karate test. Ten male national-level karate athletes (age 26 +/- 5 yrs; body mass 69.5 +/- 11.6 kg; height 1.70 +/- 0.09 m) performed two exercise tests (separated by 2-7 days): 1) a running-based cardiopulmonary exercise test; 2) a graded karate test. The cardiopulmonary exercise test was comprised of an individualized ramp protocol for treadmill running, and the graded karate test was comprised of a sequence of 'kis-ami-gyaku-zuki" punching at a fixed frequency of a stationary target that becomes progressively distant. Cardiorespiratory responses, blood lactate concentration, and perceived exertion were measured. A verification phase was also performed in both tests to confirm the maximal physiological outcomes. The graded karate test evoked similar maximal responses to the running protocol: VO2 (57.4 +/- 5.1 vs 58.3 +/- 3.5 mL.kg(-1).min(-1); p = 0.53), heart rate (192 +/- 6 vs 193 +/- 10]beats.min(-1); p = 0.62) and blood lactate (14.6 +/- 3.4 vs 13.1 +/- 3.0 mmol.L-1; p = 0.14) with a shorter duration (351 +/- 71 vs 640 +/- 9 s; p < 0.001). Additionally, the graded karate test evoked higher VO2 (72.6 +/- 6.5 vs 64.4 +/- 4.3 %VO2MAX; p = 0.005) and heart rate (89.4 +/- 4.6 vs 77.3 +/- 7.2 %HRMAX p < 0.001) at the ventilatory threshold and a higher heart rate (97.0 +/- 2.4 vs 92.9 +/- 2.2 %HRMAX; p = 0.02) at the respiratory compensation point. Incremental and verification phases evoked similar responses in VO2 and minute-ventilation during both tests. This novel displacement-based sport-specific test evoked similar maximal and higher submaximal responses, indicating a superior pathway to assess karate athletes.		[Hausen, Matheus; Freire, Raul; Machado, Andrea B.; Pereira, Glauber R.; Itaborahy, Alex] Brazil Olymp Comm, Olymp Lab, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Millet, Gregoire P.] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Itaborahy, Alex] Brazil Olymp Comm, Olymp Lab, Maria Lenk Aquat Ctr, Av Embaixador Abelardo Bueno S-N, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900016	28	Article; Article		
J	Abadi, Mokhammad R.; Widyahening, Indah S.; Sudarsono, Nani C.; Tobing, Ade J.								Incidence Rate of Musculoskeletal Injuries among Professional Tennis Players during 2019 International Tournaments in Indonesia								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			268	274		10.52082/jssm.2021.268			JUN 2021	2021	Several studies have indicated that musculoskeletal injuries are common during a professional tennis competition. However, data from a tropical country like Indonesia is lacking. This study aimed to obtain the incidence rate and injury characteristics and identify risk factors of musculoskeletal injuries among professional tennis players competing in Indonesia under the International Tennis Federation (ITF). The study was a prospective cohort during professional tennis tournaments in Jakarta, Indonesia in 2019, consisting of the ITF Women's Circuit Indonesia (two weeks) and ITF Men's Future Indonesia (three weeks). All athletes were enrolled in this study. Injuries were assessed based on the ITF Consensus Statement. Incidence rate was the number of injuries per 1000 player hours (i.e., the total duration from before the match starts to completion of the match after the final point). The magnitude of risk was expressed as a relative risk (RR) and its 95% confidence interval (CI). Independent risk factors were identified using multivariate analyses. A total of 161 tennis players were enrolled; 71 (44.1%) were men. Their mean age was 22 years old. The incidence rate of musculoskeletal injuries was 30.8 injuries per 1000 player hours (95% CI: 28.2-33.5). The most common onset was acute injuries (61.1%), while the most common location and type of injury was the trunk (38.9%) and muscle strain (61.1%). Risk factors associated with musculoskeletal injury were higher body height, skill level, history of previous injury, and wet bulb globe temperature (WBGT) zone. There was no injury during the doubles matches. Previous injury was an independent risk factor (adjusted RR: 48.1 (95% CI: 11.3-155.0; p < 0.001). The incidence of musculoskeletal injuries among professional tennis player is considerably high. Factors associated with injury are body height, skill level, previous injury, and WBGT zone. Future injury prevention programmes should incorporate the management of previous injuries and take into account the effect of environmental temperature.		[Abadi, Mokhammad R.; Widyahening, Indah S.; Sudarsono, Nani C.; Tobing, Ade J.] Fac Med Univ Indonesia, Dept Community Med, Jakarta, Indonesia; [Widyahening, Indah S.] Univ Indonesia, Reg Ctr Food & Nutr, Southeast Asian Ministers Educ Org SEAMEO RECFON, Jakarta, Indonesia; [Widyahening, Indah S.] Fac Med Univ Indonesia, Dept Community Med, Jakarta, Indonesia; [Widyahening, Indah S.] Univ Indonesia, Reg Ctr Food & Nutr, Southeast Asian Ministers Educ Org SEAMEO RECFON, Jakarta, Indonesia								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900011	31	Article; Article		
J	Duiven, Erik; van Loon, Luc J. C.; Spruijt, Laila; Koert, Willem; de Hon, Olivier M.								Undeclared Doping Substances are Highly Prevalent in Commercial Sports Nutrition Supplements								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			328	338		10.52082/jssm.2021.328			JUN 2021	2021	Sports nutrition supplements have previously been reported to contain undeclared doping substances. The use of such supplements can lead to general health risks and may give rise to unintentional doping violations in elite sports. To assess the prevalence of doping substances in a range of high-risk sports nutrition supplements available from Dutch web shops. A total of 66 sports nutrition supplements - identified as potentially high-risk products claiming to modulate hormone regulation, stimulate muscle mass gain, increase fat loss, and/or boost energy - were selected from 21 different brands and purchased from 17 web shops. All products were analyzed for doping substances by the UK life sciences testing company LGC, formerly known as the Laboratory of the Government Chemist, using an extended version of their ISO17025 accredited nutritional supplement screen. A total of 25 out of the 66 products (38%) contained undeclared doping substances, which included high levels of the stimulants oxilofrine, beta-methylphenethylamine (BMPEA) and N,beta-dimethylphenethylamine (NBDMPEA), the stimulant 4-methylhexan-2-amine (methylhexaneamine, 1,3-dimethylamylamine, DMAA), the anabolic steroids boldione (1,4-androstadiene-3,17-dione) and 5-androstene-3 beta,17 alpha-diol (17 alpha-AED), the beta-2 agonist higenamine and the beta-blocker bisoprolol. Based upon the recommended dose and the potential variability of analyte concentration, the ingestion of some products identified within this study could pose a significant risk of unintentional doping violations. In addition to inadvertent doping risks, the prescribed use of 3 products (4.5%) could likely impose general health risks.		[Duiven, Erik; Spruijt, Laila; Koert, Willem; de Hon, Olivier M.] Doping Author Netherlands, POB 5000, NL-2900 EA Capelle Aan Den Ijssel, Netherlands; [van Loon, Luc J. C.] Maastricht Univ, NUTRIM Sch Nutr & Translat Res Metab, Dept Human Biol, Med Ctr, Maastricht, Netherlands; [Duiven, Erik] Doping Author Netherlands, POB 5000, NL-2900 EA Capelle Aan Den Ijssel, Netherlands								57							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900018	65	Article; Article		
J	Son, Won-Mok; Park, Jung-Jun								Resistance Band Exercise Training Prevents the Progression of Metabolic Syndrome in Obese Postmenopausal Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			291	299		10.52082/jssm.2021.291			JUN 2021	2021	Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is classified as a combination of risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD), and postmenopausal women are specifically at an increased risk for MetS, in part due to the hormonal and metabolic changes that occur at the menopause transition. It is crucial to combat the components of MetS with appropriate lifestyle interventions in this population, such as exercise. This study aimed to examine the effects of a resistance band exercise training program in obese postmenopausal women with MetS. A total 35 postmenopausal women were randomly assigned to either a control group (CON, n = 17) or a resistance band exercise training group (EX, n = 18). Participants in the EX group trained 3days/week. Levels of blood glucose, insulin, homeostatic model of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), blood lipid profile, anthropometrics, and blood pressure (BP) were measured at baseline and after the exercise intervention. There were significant group by time interactions (p < 0.05) for blood glucose (Delta-4.5 mg/dl), insulin (Delta-1.3 mu U/ml), HOMA-IR (Delta-0.6), triglycerides (Delta-9.4 mg/dl), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (Delta-10.8 mg/dl), systolic BP(Delta-3.4 mmHg), body fat percentage (Delta-3.0 %), and waist circumference (Delta-3.4 cm), which significantly decreased (p < 0.05), and lean body mass (Delta 0.7 kg) and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (Delta 5.1 mg/dl), which significantly increased (p < 0.05) after EX compared to no change in CON. The present study indicates that resistance band exercise training may be an effective therapeutic intervention to combat the components of MetS in this population, potentially reducing the risk for the development of CVD.		[Son, Won-Mok; Park, Jung-Jun] Pusan Natl Univ, Div Sports Sci, Busan, South Korea; [Park, Jung-Jun] Div Sport Sci, 2 Busandaehak Ro 63Beon Gil, Busan 46241, South Korea								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900014	69	Article; Article		
J	Hirose, Norikazu; Tsuruike, Masaaki; Higashihara, Ayako								Biceps Femoris Muscle is Activated by Performing Nordic Hamstring Exercise at a Shallow Knee Flexion Angle								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			275	283		10.52082/jssm.2021.275			JUN 2021	2021	The semitendinosus (ST) muscle is primarily used during Nordic hamstring exercise (NHE), which is often prescribed for preventing hamstring injury, though the biceps femoris long head (BFlh) muscle that is more susceptible to injuries. Thus, this study aimed to identify the modulation of BFlh muscle activity with different knee flexion angles during NHE using an inclined platform. Fourteen male athletes performed NHE and maintained their position at maximum inclination (NH). Subjects also performed isometric NHE using a platform inclined to 50 degrees (ICL) and 40 degrees (ICH), and the knee flexion angle was controlled to 50 degrees and 30 degrees. The electromyography (EMG) activity of the BFlh, ST, semimembranosus, gluteus maximus, elector spinae, and rectus abdominus muscles was determined during each exercise. The EMG of the ST was higher than that of the BFlh during NHE and the highest of all muscles in all exercises (p < 0.05). Moreover, the activity of the BFlh tended to be higher than that of the ST for ICH than for ICL, regardless of the knee joint angle. The activity of the BFlh becomes equivalent to that of the ST during NHE at a knee flexion angle of less than 50 degrees. These results indicate that performing NHE at a shallow knee flexion angle will enhance the activity of the BFlh muscle.		[Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 3-4-1 Higashifushimi, Tokyo 2020021, Japan; [Tsuruike, Masaaki] San Jose State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, San Jose, CA 95192 USA; [Higashihara, Ayako] Keio Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Fujisawa, Kanagawa, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 3-4-1 Higashifushimi, Tokyo 2020021, Japan								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900012	42	Article; Article		
J	van den Noort, Dennie; Oltmans, Emmeline; Aoki, Haruhito; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.; Gouttebarge, Vincent								Clinical Hip Osteoarthritis in Current and Former Professional Footballers and Its Effect on Hip Function and Quality of Life								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			284	290		10.52082/jssm.2021.284			JUN 2021	2021	The objective of the study was to establish the prevalence of clinical hip osteoarthritis in current and former professional footballers and to explore its consequences on hip function and health-related quality of life (HRQoL). A cross-sectional study by means of questionnaire was conducted among current and former professional footballers fulfilling the following inclusion criteria: (1) male (2) active or retired professional footballer (3) member of FIFPRO (Football Players Worldwide) (4) between 18 and 50 years old (5) could read and understand texts in French, Spanish, or English. Controls (matched for: gender, age, body weight and height) were also recruited. The main outcome measures were clinical hip osteoarthritis, hip function and HRQoL. Questionnaires were sent to 2,500 members of which 1,401 participated (1,000 current and 401 former professional footballers). Fifty-two controls were recruited. Prevalence of hip osteoarthritis was 2% among current and 8% among former professional footballers. Hip function was significantly (p <= 0.001) lower in both types of footballers with hip osteoarthritis than in footballers without hip osteoarthritis and controls. Current and former professional footballers with hip osteoarthritis reported significantly lower physical health scores (p = 0.032, p = 0.002) than those without. Hip osteoarthritis led to a significantly lower score in the physical (p = 0.004) and mental (p = 0.014) component of HRQoL in former footballers compared to the controls, while in current footballers only the physical component was significantly (p = 0.012) lower compared to the controls. Hip osteoarthritis has a higher prevalence in former than in current professional footballers and impacts hip function and HRQoL negatively.		[van den Noort, Dennie; Oltmans, Emmeline; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Univ Amsterdam, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam UMC, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Aoki, Haruhito] St Marianna Univ, Sch Med, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan; [Aoki, Haruhito] Yokohama City Sports Med Ctr, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Amsterdam UMC IOC Res Ctr Excellence, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports ACHSS, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] FIFPRO Football Players Worldwide, Hoofddorp, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Univ Amsterdam, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam UMC, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Amsterdam UMC IOC Res Ctr Excellence, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports ACHSS, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] FIFPRO Football Players Worldwide, Hoofddorp, Netherlands								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900013	34	Article; Article		
J	Mousavi, Seyed Hamed; Hijmans, Juha M.; Minoonejad, Hooman; Rajabi, Reza; Zwerver, Johannes								Factors Associated With Lower Limb Injuries in Recreational Runners: A Cross-Sectional Survey Including Mental Aspects and Sleep Quality								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			204	215		10.52082/jssm.2021.204			JUN 2021	2021	Knowledge about prevalence and etiology of running-related injuries (RRIs) is important to design effective RRI prevention programs. Mental aspects and sleep quality seem to be important potential risk factors, yet their association with RRIs needs to be elucidated. The aims of this study are to investigate the epidemiology of RRIs in recreational runners and the association of mental aspects, sleep, and other potential factors with RRIs. An internet-based questionnaire was sent to recreational runners recruited through social media, asking for personal and training characteristics, mental aspects (obsessive passion, motivation to exercise), sleep quality, perceived health, quality of life, foot arch type, and RRIs over the past six months. Data were analyzed descriptively and using logistic regression. Self-reported data from 804 questionnaires were analyzed. Twenty-five potential risk factors for RRIs were investigated. 54% of runners reported at least one RRI. The knee was the most-affected location (45%), followed by the lower leg (19%). Patellofemoral pain syndrome was the most-reported injury (20%), followed by medial tibial stress syndrome (17%). Obsessive passionate attitude (odds ratio (OR):1.35; 95% confidence interval (CI):1.18-1.54), motivation to exercise (OR:1.09; CI:1.03-1.15), and sleep quality (OR:1.23; CI:1.15-1.31) were associated with RRIs, as were perceived health (OR:0.96; CI:0.94-0.97), running over 20 km/week (OR:1.58; CI:1.04-2.42), overweight (OR:2.17; CI:1.41-3.34), pes planus (OR:1.80; CI:1.12-2.88), hard-surface running (OR:1.37; CI:1.17-1.59), running company (OR:1.65; CI:1.16-2.35), and following a training program (OR:1.51; CI:1.09-2.10). These factors together explained 30% of the variance in RRIs. A separate regression analysis showed that mental aspects and sleep quality explain 15% of the variance in RRIs. The association of mental aspects and sleep quality with RRIs adds new insights into the multifactorial etiology of RRIs. We therefore recommend that besides common risk factors for RRI, mental aspects and sleep be incorporated into the advice on prevention and management of RRIs.		[Mousavi, Seyed Hamed; Hijmans, Juha M.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Rehabil Med, Groningen, Netherlands; [Mousavi, Seyed Hamed; Minoonejad, Hooman; Rajabi, Reza] Univ Tehran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Hlth & Sport Med, Tehran, Iran; [Mousavi, Seyed Hamed; Zwerver, Johannes] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Zwerver, Johannes] Gelderse Vallei Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Ede, Netherlands; [Mousavi, Seyed Hamed] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Rehabil Med, Groningen, Netherlands; [Mousavi, Seyed Hamed] Univ Tehran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Hlth & Sport Med, Tehran, Iran; [Mousavi, Seyed Hamed] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900004	69	Article; Article		
J	Andersen, Vidar; Pedersen, Helene; Fimland, Marius Steiro; Shaw, Matthew; Solstad, Tom Erik Jorung; Stien, Nicolay; Cumming, Kristoffer Toldnes; Saeterbakken, Atle Hole								Comparison of Muscle Activity in Three Single-Joint, Hip Extension Exercises in Resistance-Trained Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	2			181	187		10.52082/jssm.2021.181			JUN 2021	2021	The aim of the study was to compare neuromuscular activation in the gluteus maximus, the biceps femoris and the erector spinae from the Romanian deadlift, the 45-degree Roman chair back extension and the seated machine back extension. Fifteen resistance-trained females performed three repetitions with 6-RM loading in all exercises in a randomized and counterbalanced order. The activation in the whole movement as well as its lower and upper parts were analyzed. The results showed that the Romanian deadlift and the Roman chair back extension activated the gluteus maximus more than the seated machine back extension (94-140%, p<0.01). For the biceps femoris the Roman chair elicited higher activation compared to both the Romanian deadlift and the seated machine back extension (71-174%). Further, the Romanian deadlift activated the biceps femoris more compared to the seated machine back extension (61%, p<0.01). The analyses of the different parts of the movement showed that the Roman chair produced higher levels of activation in the upper part for both the gluteus maximus and the biceps femoris, compared to the other exercises. There were no differences in activation of the erector spinae between the three exercises (p = 1.00). In conclusion, both the Roman deadlift and the Roman chair back extension would be preferable to the seated machine back extension in regards to gluteus maximus activation. The Roman chair was superior in activating the biceps femoris compared to the two other exercises. All three exercises are appropriate selections for activating the lower back muscles. For overall lower limb activation, the Roman chair was the best exercise.		[Andersen, Vidar; Pedersen, Helene; Shaw, Matthew; Solstad, Tom Erik Jorung; Stien, Nicolay; Saeterbakken, Atle Hole] Western Norway Univ Appl Sci, Fac Educ Arts & Sports, Sogndal, Norway; [Fimland, Marius Steiro] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Neuromed & Movement Sci, Trondheim, Norway; [Fimland, Marius Steiro] Unicare Helsefort Rehabil Ctr, Rissa, Norway; [Cumming, Kristoffer Toldnes] Ostfold Univ Coll, Fac Hlth & Welf, Halden, Norway; [Andersen, Vidar] Western Norway Univ Appl Sci, Fac Educ Arts & Sports, Sogndal, Norway								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000642336900001	19	Article; Article		
J	Faleiro Diniz, Laura Beatriz; Teles Bredt, Sarah da Gloria; Praca, Gibson Moreira								Influence of non-scorer floater and numerical superiority on novices' tactical behaviour and skill efficacy during basketball small-sided games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			37	45	17479541211021986	10.1177/17479541211021986			FEB 2022	2022	The study compared the tactical behaviour and skill efficacy of young novice basketball players during small-sided games (SSGs) in situations of numerical equality (3vs.3), numerical superiority (3vs.2), and a non-scorer floater (3vs.3 + 1). A total of forty-five schoolchildren (11.55 +/- 0.49 years) from both sexes with no previous experience in basketball participated in ten four-minute SSGs of each format for four 1-h sessions. The Game Performance Assessment Instrument was used to analyse tactical behaviour and skill efficacy. Friedman's test, Dunn's post hoc test, and r effect size were used to compare the variables between SSGs. Pass inefficacy (3vs.3 > 3vs.2; p = 0.004; large effect), rebound efficacy (3vs.2 > 3vs.3 + 1 and 3vs.3; p = 0.002; large effect), support (3vs.3 > 3vs.3 + 1 e 3vs.2; p = 0.002; medium effect), and guard/mark (3vs.2 > 3vs.3 and 3vs.3 + 1; p = 0.001; medium effect) showed significant differences between SSGs. The results support the hypothesis that an unbalanced SSG is less complex than an SSG with numerical equality, as the technical-tactical performance is higher in unbalanced SSGs.		[Faleiro Diniz, Laura Beatriz; Teles Bredt, Sarah da Gloria; Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000663928800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Pla, Robin; Ledanois, Thibaut; Simbana, Escobar David; Aubry, Anael; Tranchard, Benjamin; Toussaint, Jean-Francois; Sedeaud, Adrien; Seifert, Ludovic								Spatial-temporal variables for swimming coaches: A comparison study between video and TritonWear sensor								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	6			1271	1280	17479541211013755	10.1177/17479541211013755			DEC 2021	2021	The main aim of this study was to evaluate the validity and the reliability of a swimming sensor to assess swimming performance and spatial-temporal variables. Six international male open-water swimmers completed a protocol which consisted of two training sets: a 6x100m individual medley and a continuous 800 m set in freestyle. Swimmers were equipped with a wearable sensor, the TritonWear to collect automatically spatial-temporal variables: speed, lap time, stroke count (SC), stroke length (SL), stroke rate (SR), and stroke index (SI). Video recordings were added as a "gold-standard" and used to assess the validity and the reliability of the TritonWear sensor. The results show that the sensor provides accurate results in comparison with video recording measurements. A very high accuracy was observed for lap time with a mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) under 5% for each stroke (2.2, 3.2, 3.4, 4.1% for butterfly, backstroke, breaststroke and freestyle respectively) but high error ranges indicate a dependence on swimming technique. Stroke count accuracy was higher for symmetric strokes than for alternate strokes (MAPE: 0, 2.4, 7.1 & 4.9% for butterfly, breaststroke, backstroke & freestyle respectively). The other variables (SL, SR & SI) derived from the SC and the lap time also show good accuracy in all strokes. The wearable sensor provides an accurate real time feedback of spatial-temporal variables in six international open-water swimmers during classical training sets (at low to moderate intensities), which could be a useful tool for coaches, allowing them to monitor training load with no effort.		[Pla, Robin; Simbana, Escobar David; Tranchard, Benjamin] French Swimming Federat, Clichy, France; [Pla, Robin; Aubry, Anael] French Natl Inst Sport, Paris, France; [Pla, Robin; Ledanois, Thibaut; Toussaint, Jean-Francois; Sedeaud, Adrien] Inst Rech Biomed & Epidemiol Sport, Paris, France; [Simbana, Escobar David] Univ Rouen Normandie, Fac Sport Sci, CETAPS, EA3832, Rouen, France; [Toussaint, Jean-Francois; Seifert, Ludovic] Univ Paris 05, EA 7329, Paris, France; [Toussaint, Jean-Francois] Hop Hotel Dieu, AP HP, CIMS, Paris, France; [Pla, Robin] French Swimming Federat, Clichy, France								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000671416900001	44	Article; Article		
J	Smalley, Ben; Bishop, Chris; Maloney, Sean J.								"Small steps, or giant leaps?" Comparing game demands of U23, U18, and U16 English academy soccer and their associations with speed and endurance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			134	142	17479541211018771	10.1177/17479541211018771			FEB 2022	2022	The current study aimed to compare locomotive outputs across English U16, U18 and U23 academy soccer and investigate possible relationships with neuromuscular and aerobic capacities. Participants included 46 outfield players from an English Category Two soccer academy. Global positioning system (18 Hz) data were utilised to analyse locomotive outputs across twenty eleven-a-side matches in each age group. Maximal sprinting speed (MSS) and aerobic speed (MAS) were assessed at the beginning of the season. Absolute total distance (TD), high-speed running (HSR), acceleration and deceleration workloads were higher in U18's and U23's vs. U16's (g = 1.09-2.58; p < 0.05), and absolute sprinting distances were higher in U23's vs. U16's (g = 0.96; p < 0.05). In addition, relative HSR outputs were higher in U23's vs. U18's (g = 1.84-2.07; p < 0.05). Across the whole cohort, players' MSS was positively associated with absolute HSR and sprinting distances (rho = 0.53-0.79; p < 0.05) but not with relative parameters. MAS was positively associated with total distance, decelerations, and both absolute and relative HSR outputs (rho = 0.33-0.56; p < 0.05). Overall, absolute locomotive outputs were significantly higher in U23's and U18's vs. U16's. Locomotive outputs were also associated with maximal sprinting and aerobic speeds. Thus, training programmes should be tailored to competition demands to optimally prepare each age group for competition and reflect the increasing demands of each level of competition. Further, improving physical fitness (speed and endurance) is likely to drive greater outputs in competition.		[Smalley, Ben; Bishop, Chris; Maloney, Sean J.] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England; [Smalley, Ben] Queens Pk Rangers Football Club, Acad Sport Sci Dept, London, England; [Maloney, Sean J.] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Fac Sci & Technol, London, England								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000655991100001	45	Article; Article		
J	Hoelbling, Dominik; Grafinger, Manfred; Smiech, Martin Mattaeus; Cizmic, Dea; Dabnichki, Peter; Baca, Arnold								Acute response on general and sport specific hip joint flexibility to training with novel sport device								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	9			1107	1122		10.1080/14763141.2021.1922742			SEP 1 2024	2024	The study objective is to test general- and sport-specific adaption during a single training on the Flexibility Trainer. The device is designed to trigger residual muscle tone decreases of the hip-joint muscles by providing (nearly) isokinetic resistance during a full range of motion strength training in adduction/abduction and flexion/extension direction. Static hip flexion and abduction as well as kinematics of double side kicks were analysed on 15 participants before and after training (or rest for controls) to assess general flexibility and sport-specific movement range. Tests were recorded by a Vicon (R) motion capturing system. Static hip flexion and abduction as well as leg vector spreading angles (VSA) at different nodes of the kick were selected to determine adaptions of active and passive flexibility. Normalised hip joint moments, movement velocities and VSA were calculated to evaluate the training with the device. ANOVAs with 4-repeated measures and Friedman tests were performed to identify time differences and Bonferroni post-hoc test to identify between-subject effects. Significant differences were found for both static flexibility tests (Flexion = 13.65%; Abduction = 9.94%) and the VSA at specific action phases (<= 15.15%). Results indicate that short-term adaptions when training with the Flexibility Trainer are exceeding comparable literature showing improved flexibility and sport-specific performance.		[Hoelbling, Dominik; Baca, Arnold] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Vienna, Austria; [Hoelbling, Dominik; Dabnichki, Peter] RMIT Univ, Sch Aerosp Mech & Mfg Engn, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Hoelbling, Dominik; Smiech, Martin Mattaeus; Cizmic, Dea] Vienna Univ Technol, Res Grp Ind Software INSO, Vienna, Austria; [Grafinger, Manfred] Vienna Univ Technol, Dept Virtual Prod Dev, Vienna, Austria; [Hoelbling, Dominik] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Vienna, Austria; [Hoelbling, Dominik] RMIT Univ, Sch Aerosp Mech & Mfg Engn, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Hoelbling, Dominik] Vienna Univ Technol, Res Grp Ind Software INSO, Vienna, Austria								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000654095400001	34	Article; Article		
J	Peralvo-Simon, Maria; Veiga, Santiago; Navia, Jose A.								A temporal analysis of the swimmers' coordination in the relay start								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	8			1073	1082		10.1080/14763141.2021.1921249			AUG 2 2024	2024	The main aims of the present research were 1) to characterise the inter-subject and intra-subject timing of the preparatory movements of competitive swimmers during relay starts and 2) to relate the preparatory movements with the relay start outcome. Nine international youth swimmers performed 10 relay freestyle starts (one-step technique) filmed at 120 Hz from a lateral viewpoint. Results obtained (0.14 +/- 0.10 s changeover time, 0.31 +/- 0.07 s entry time, 2.59 +/- 0.09 m entry distance and 0.96 +/- 0.06 s time to 5 m) indicated that the longer the preparation time (from the initial position to the swimmer's take-off), the better the changeover time, entry distance, and 5 m time. Specifically, a mixed linear model identified preparation time (p < 0.001, F (1,80.01) = 56.36), and entry distance (p = 0.008, F (1,80.01) = 7.36) as predicting variables for 5 m time. Also, faster swimmers on times to 5 m were found to be more consistent - lower levels of intra-subject variability - in 5 m (r = 0.76, p = 0.018) and changeover (r = 0.72, p = 0.029) times. In summary, the timing of the preparatory movements seems to be a key aspect to optimise relay start performances.		[Peralvo-Simon, Maria; Navia, Jose A.] Univ Politecn Madrid, Social Sci Phys Act Sport & Leisure Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Hlth & Human Performance, Madrid, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Univ Politecn Madrid, Hlth & Human Performance, Madrid, Spain								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000652795000001	23	Article; Article		
J	Brown, Cathleen N.; Samson, Christine O.; Hsieh, Katherine L.								Hysteresis and stiffness of the lateral ankle complex in those with chronic ankle instability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	4			517	530		10.1080/14763141.2021.1925335			APR 21 2022	2022	The role of mechanical laxity and viscoelastic tissue properties in chronic ankle instability (CAI) is unclear, but may influence repeated injury. The purpose was to determine if lateral ankle complex stiffness and hysteresis was altered in CAI individuals with and without mechanical laxity, compared to copers and uninjured controls. Thirty-five recreational athletes (19 females, 22.1 +/- 2.7 years, 69.7 +/- 15.7 kg, 168.4 +/- 10.7 cm) were assessed for ankle injury history and self-reported instability. An instrumented arthrometer was applied and laxity, stiffness and hysteresis values were captured. Results from ANOVA tests indicated the CAI with laxity group had lower beginning- (3.2 +/- 0.6 N/mm) and end-range stiffness (4.5 +/- 0.4 N/mm) than the CAI without laxity group (4.7 +/- 0.6; 6.0 +/- 0.6 N/mm) and uninjured controls (4.6 +/- 1.1; 5.8 +/- 0.8 N/mm, p < 0.003). Hysteresis was greater in the CAI with laxity group than without laxity (91.0 +/- 17.3 vs 62.8 +/- 12.0 dN center dot mm; p = 0.03). Altered tissue properties in a CAI with laxity group likely indicate diminished ability of the lateral ankle complex to respond to loading. Accurately assessing, then avoiding or restoring tissue impairments after injury, may encourage better patient outcomes.		[Brown, Cathleen N.] Oregon State Univ, Coll Publ Hlth & Human Sci, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Samson, Christine O.] Southern Utah Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Outdoor Recreat, Cedar City, UT USA; [Hsieh, Katherine L.] Wake Forest Sch Med, Dept Internal Med, J Paul Sticht Ctr Aging, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Brown, Cathleen N.] Oregon State Univ, Coll Publ Hlth & Human Sci, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000653520000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Kataoka, Kiminari; Hoshino, Yuichi; Nagamune, Kouki; Nukuto, Koji; Yamamoto, Tetsuya; Yamashita, Takahiro; Kanzaki, Noriyuki; Kakutani, Kenichiro; Matsushita, Takehiko; Kuroda, Ryosuke								The quantitative evaluation of anterior drawer test using an electromagnetic measurement system								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	4			550	561		10.1080/14763141.2021.1918754			APR 21 2022	2022	The anterior drawer test (ADT) is the gold standard examination for the diagnosis of anterior talofibular ligamentinsufficiency,although there is noquantitative evaluation of ADT that is generally usable and reliable.An electromagnetic sensor (EMS)has been used to quantitatively evaluate joint kinematics, and has a high potential to be applied to the ankle joint. The aim of this study was to validatethe EMS measurement of the ADTin comparison to the fluoroscopic evaluationand to evaluate the reproducibility of the EMS measurement.Six feet were included,and an examinerperformed the ADT5 times for each foot while the anterior translation of the ankle jointwas quantitative evaluatedusing EMS and fluoroscope simultaneously. The anterior translation of the ankle joint during the ADT in EMS and in fluoroscope was 8.1 +/- 5.7 mm and 3.6 +/- 2.4 mm.Astrong correlation was observed between the measurements using EMS and fluoroscope (p < 0.01, the correlation coefficient = 0.91). Another 20 feet were included, and three examiners performed the ADT five times for each foot with the EMS measurement. The intra and inter-examiner reliability was 0.99 and 0.89.The EMS could quantify the anterior translation during the ADT which corresponds to fluoroscopic evaluation.		[Kataoka, Kiminari; Hoshino, Yuichi; Nukuto, Koji; Yamamoto, Tetsuya; Yamashita, Takahiro; Kanzaki, Noriyuki; Kakutani, Kenichiro; Matsushita, Takehiko; Kuroda, Ryosuke] Kobe Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Grad Sch Med, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Nagamune, Kouki] Univ Fukui, Dept Human & Artificial Intelligent Syst, Fukui, Japan; [Hoshino, Yuichi] Kobe Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Grad Sch Med, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000652818100001	46	Article; Article		
J	Ferreira Barbosa, Helena; Garcia-Fernandez, Jeronimo; Pedragosa, Vera; Cepeda-Carrion, Gabriel								The use of fitness centre apps and its relation to customer satisfaction: a UTAUT2 perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	5			966	985		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2021-0010			SEP 21 2022	2022	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to analyse the intention of using fitness app made available by the fitness centre to its members and their relationship with overall customer satisfaction. Design/methodology/approach The present study uses the extended unified theory of acceptance and use of technology (UTAUT2) as the base model. All the hypothesised relationships were tested through partial least square structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM), in a quantitative study with data from 1,676 fitness consumers from Portugal. Findings The results support the ability of UTAUT2 in predicting the customer ' s intention to use the fitness app. Performance expectancy, effort expectancy, social influence, facilitating conditions, hedonic motivation and habit have a positive impact on behavioural intentions to use the fitness app. Performance expectancy and habit have the strongest relationships. Behavioural intentions are positively related both to the usage behaviour of the fitness app and to overall customer satisfaction. Practical implications The results of this study present a strong contribution for fitness centre managers, since it highlights the importance of using these apps as a way to increase customer satisfaction, increasing retention levels. Originality/value This study is paramount as regards to examine the behavioural intention to use the fitness apps that the fitness centres make available to their members using UTAUT2 model.		[Ferreira Barbosa, Helena] Polytech Inst Beja, Arts Humanities & Sports Dept, Beja, Portugal; [Garcia-Fernandez, Jeronimo] Univ Seville, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Seville, Spain; [Pedragosa, Vera] Autonomous Univ Lisbon, Psychol Res Ctr, Econ & Business Sci Dept, Lisbon, Portugal; [Cepeda-Carrion, Gabriel] Univ Seville, Management & Mkt Dept, Seville, Spain; [Ferreira Barbosa, Helena] Polytech Inst Beja, Arts Humanities & Sports Dept, Beja, Portugal								48							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000653157900001	74	Article; Article		
J	Horiuchi, Gen; Nakashima, Hirotaka; Sakurai, Shinji								Mechanical energy flow in torso during baseball toss batting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	9			1136	1146		10.1080/14763141.2021.1927162			SEP 1 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to clarify the relationship between the efficiency of mechanical energy flow in the torso and bat head speed at impact. Ninety-eight amateur baseball players batted a light ball tossed from the pitcher direction 3.2 m away. The batting motion and ground reaction forces acting on each foot were recorded using a motion capture system and two force plates, respectively. The mechanical powers of the joint forces and joint torques were calculated to measure the generation, absorption, and transfer of mechanical energy in the torso. The transfer efficiency of mechanical energy in the torso was defined as the ratio of the mechanical energy inflow into the thorax from the torso joint to the mechanical energy outflow from the pelvis to the torso joint. The correlation coefficient between the bat head speed and transfer efficiency of mechanical energy in the torso was very low. Conversely, the mechanical energy flow in the torso was significantly correlated to the bat head speed. Therefore, the results suggest that the torso in baseball batting is not utilised for the generation of mechanical energy but acts as a pathway for the transfer of mechanical energy.		[Horiuchi, Gen] Kansai Univ, Fac Hlth & Well Being, Osaka, Japan; [Nakashima, Hirotaka] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Sakurai, Shinji] Chukyo Univ, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Horiuchi, Gen] Kansai Univ, Fac Hlth & Well Being, Osaka, Japan								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000652157900001	17	Article; Article		
J	Shepherd, Imogen; Lindley, Martin R.; Logan, Oliver; Mears, Aimee; Pain, Matthew T. G.; King, Mark								The effect of body position and mass centre velocity at toe off on the start performance of elite swimmers and how this differs between gender								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1659	1668		10.1080/14763141.2021.1919750			DEC 2 2023	2023	The start in swimming is a crucial phase of a race, where improvements in performance can be made. Twenty-four elite swimmers race pace starts were recorded from five above and below water 50 Hz video cameras. Body position at toe off was calculated from the recordings and consisted of the two-dimensional mass centre position at toe off, and the arm, trunk, front leg and rear leg angles.Horizontal, vertical and resultant velocity of the mass centre at toe off, time to 5 m, 10 m and 15 m were also determined. Whilst time to 5 m (starting performance) differed by 0.17 s between genders, body position at toe off showed no significant differences. The difference in start performance was mainly due to a difference in horizontal velocity at toe off. The relationship between arm angle and start performance warrants further investigation as there was a range of techniques adopted but no clear link to performance. The trunk angle at toe off was correlated to starting performance for both males and females. This study demonstrates that the body position at toe off is no different between genders but is a critical determinant of starting performance for both males and females.		[Shepherd, Imogen; Lindley, Martin R.; Pain, Matthew T. G.; King, Mark] Univ Loughborough, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Logan, Oliver] British Swimming, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Mears, Aimee] Loughborough Univ, Sch Mech Elect & Mfg Engn, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Shepherd, Imogen] Univ Loughborough, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000652135700001	19	Article; Article		
J	Gonjo, Tomohiro; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo; Sanders, Ross								Differences in the rotational effect of buoyancy and trunk kinematics between front crawl and backstroke swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1590	1601		10.1080/14763141.2021.1921835			DEC 2 2023	2023	The purpose of the present study is to investigate differences between front crawl and backstroke swimming in hydrodynamic (produced by swimmers) and buoyant torque around the transverse axis. Ten swimmers performed 50 m front crawl and backstroke at four selected velocities (same velocities for both techniques). All trials were recorded by four underwater and two above-water cameras to collect data for three-dimensional whole-body motion during one stroke cycle (defined as a period between two consecutive wrist entries to the water). The inverse dynamics approach was applied to obtain buoyant and hydrodynamic torque around the transverse axis. The differences between front crawl and backstroke techniques across four levels of velocity were assessed with a two-way repeated-measures ANOVA. There was a main effect of technique on the mean buoyant and hydrodynamic torque, with 30-40 % larger leg-raising buoyant torque and leg sinking hydrodynamic torque in front crawl than in backstroke (p <= 0.001). The time-series data revealed that the hydrodynamic leg-sinking torque had its peaks during the first half of the underwater upper-limb motion in front crawl, but that was not observed in backstroke, implying that the strategy of counterbalancing the buoyant torque is different between the techniques.		[Gonjo, Tomohiro] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo] Univ Porto, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, J. Paulo] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [Sanders, Ross] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000652127600001	29	Article; Article		
J	Tondelli, Eduardo; Boerio, Carlos; Andreu, Mauro; Antinori, Santiago								Impact, incidence and prevalence of musculoskeletal injuries in senior amateur male rugby: epidemiological study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	3			269	275		10.1080/00913847.2021.1924045			MAY 4 2022	2022	Objectives: Exposure to different types of injuries in rugby union is common. It is important to know about the injury epidemiology for medical teams care in order to optimize players ' performance and the treatment of common injuries, but there is limited specific information related to amateur rugby union. The purpose of this study is to determine the incidence, prevalence, injury burden, severity, nature of injuries sustained by senior amateur male rugby players from three clubs in Argentina during a given season. Methods: An observational, analytical, prospective, multicenter study was developed. Data collection was conducted from 15 March 2019 to 2 November 2019, during a complete season under the applicable standards of the Rugby Injury Consensus Group according to the Orchard Sports Injury and Illness Classification System. Incidence (injuries/1000 player-match-hours), prevalence (%), severity (time loss), injury burden (days lost/1000 player-match-hours), injured location and type of injury (%) were estimated. Results: 250 players and 180 injuries were assessed. Injury prevalence was 52.4%. Incidence rate per match and training was 30.9/1000 player-match-hours, and 0.77/1000 player-training-hours, respectively. The median injury severity score was 23 (IQR 12.7-52) days lost accounting for an injury burden of 97.3/1000 player-hours. Of the total, 113 (62.8%) injuries were contact injuries. The lower limbs were the most commonly affected (58.9%). Hamstring strain injury had the highest incidence and anterior cruciate ligament tear was the most severe injury. Conclusion: The prevalence, incidence, and injury burden reported in this study are unprecedented and would add knowledge for the amateur rugby union community. Trainers, physicians, and physical therapists, should consider it to improve their clinical practice.		[Tondelli, Eduardo] Rugby Club Los Matreros, Dept Phys Therapy & Sport Med, Castelar, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Boerio, Carlos] Old Resian Club, Dept Phys Therapy & Sport Med, Rosario, Argentina; [Andreu, Mauro] Univ Nacl Matanza La Unlam, San Justo, Argentina; [Antinori, Santiago] Club Univ Cordoba, Dept Phys Therapy & Sport Med, Cordoba, Argentina; [Tondelli, Eduardo] 325 Aguirre St,C1414ASG, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina								13							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000651694300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Sell, Timothy C.; Hufnagel, Megan; Heebner, Nick; Lephart, Scott M.								Reliability, discriminant validity and sex comparisons of dynamic postural stability during a landing task designed to challenge transverse plane knee stability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	4			507	519		10.1080/14763141.2019.1569119			MAY 19 2021	2021	Internal and external rotational knee stability is essential for sports performance and excessive rotation can lead to injury but is rarely assessed in injury risk analysis. The objectives of this study were to determine the between-session reliability, discriminant validity and potential sex differences of a dynamic postural stability (DPS) assessment that challenges transverse plane knee stability. Thirty-six individuals (21.7 +/- 2.6 years) including 19 females (20.8 +/- 1.3 years) and 17 males (22.6 +/- 3.4 years) participated. We measured DPS during rotational jump tasks (RJT) over 2 test sessions utilising a force plate. Kinematic (motion analysis) and electromyographic measures were compared to a traditional anterior-posterior jump task (APJT) to assess the discriminant validity and comparisons were performed between sexes. The intraclass correlation coefficients were between 0.67 and 0.86. Significant differences in transverse rotation angle at initial contact transverse rotational velocity of the knee were observed between the 2 different RJT and between the RJT and the traditional APJT. No sex differences were observed. The new assessment had good between-session reliability and offers a different challenge than a traditional jump task. This RJT may offer a novel assessment of knee joint rotational stability in conjunction with traditional measures.		[Sell, Timothy C.] Duke Univ, Dukte Sports Sci Inst, Michael W Kryzewski Human Performance Lab, Dept Orthopaed Surg,Sch Med, Durham, NC USA; [Hufnagel, Megan] Rehabil Inst Chicago, Chicago, IL USA; [Heebner, Nick; Lephart, Scott M.] Univ Kentucky, Coll Hlth Sci, Sports Med Res Inst, Lexington, KY USA; [Sell, Timothy C.] Duke Univ, Dukte Sports Sci Inst, Michael W Kryzewski Human Performance Lab, Dept Orthopaed Surg,Sch Med, Durham, NC USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000647292800011	45	Article; Article		
J	Knudson, Duane; Wallace, Brian								Student perceptions of low-tech active learning and mastery of introductory biomechanics concepts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	4			458	468		10.1080/14763141.2019.1570322			MAY 19 2021	2021	This study documented student perceptions of five low-tech active learning exercises, their epistemology of learning, and examined the association between these variables and mastery of biomechanics concepts. Students (N = 152) in four introductory biomechanics courses at two universities completed the Biomechanics Concept Inventory (BCI) at the beginning and the end of the course. An additional 10-question survey was used at the end of the course to determine student perceptions of the active learning exercises and their epistemology of learning. Student learning of biomechanical concepts improved over levels reported in previous studies of traditional lecture instruction, but not as much as seen in other studies of active learning pedagogy in biomechanics and physics. Student perceptions of active learning were positive, particularly in individual rather than group exercises. A minority (12-16%) of these students had negative perceptions of group-based active learning exercises. Student perception of epistemology of learning was primarily constructivist; however, there was no evidence of these perceptions had associations with learning biomechanical concepts. Biomechanics instructors planning to use low-tech active learning exercises should communicate their philosophy of learning, expectations for the course, and progressively implement individual-based and group-based active learning experiences early in the course.		[Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Wallace, Brian] Univ Wisconsin Oshkosh, Coll Letters & Sci, Dept Kinesiol, Oshkosh, WI USA; [Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000647292800007	40	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Lin-Hwa; Lo, Kuo-Cheng; Su, Fong-Chin								Skill level and forearm muscle fatigue effects on ball speed in tennis serve								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	4			419	430		10.1080/14763141.2018.1560492			MAY 19 2021	2021	This study determined the effect of skill level (ITN 3 vs. ITN 8) on the tennis serve biomechanics and analysed the impact of forearm fatigue on dominant arm mechanisms between the two groups (expert vs. non-expert tennis players). The motion capture system with 17 reflective markers attached on anatomic landmarks of the participant was used for data collection. A total of 12 expert and 11 non-expert tennis players performed the required serving tasks. The ball speed of the expert group was significantly faster than that of the non-expert group during non-fatigued and fatigued states (p < 0.001). The wrist radial/ulnar deviation angle at impact was significantly different between non-fatigued and fatigued states for top-spin (p = 0.030) and flat serves (p = 0.018). A significant increase in extensor carpi ulnaris (ECU) and extensor carpi radialis (ECR) muscle activity during extension (p < 0.010) was observed, with that of the ECU being an ulnar deviation. Both the ECU and ECR might contribute to wrist joint and racket handle stability for the coming acceleration and impact while fatigue occurs. Fatigue might substantially influence non-experts' dominant forearms because of the significantly different elbow joint angles and dominant arm syndromes they displayed as compared with the experts.		[Wang, Lin-Hwa] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lo, Kuo-Cheng] Kun Shan Univ, Phys Educ Off, Tainan, Taiwan; [Su, Fong-Chin] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Dept Biomed Engn, Tainan, Taiwan; [Wang, Lin-Hwa] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000647292800004	39	Article; Article		
J	Aquino, Jessica; Amasay, Tal; Shapiro, Sue; Kuo, Yi-Tzu; Ambegaonkar, Jatin P.								Lower extremity biomechanics and muscle activity differ between 'new' and 'dead' pointe shoes in professional ballet dancers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	4			469	480		10.1080/14763141.2018.1561931			MAY 19 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to compare lower extremity (LE) biomechanics and muscle activity between 'new' and 'dead' pointe shoes in professional female ballet dancers performing releve and arabesque. We compared sway area, peak ankle moments, and tibialis anterior and medial gastrocnemius muscle activation amplitudes. Nine ballet dancers participated (age = 22.2 +/- 2.2 years, height = 163.2 +/- 6.3 cm, body mass = 50.8 +/- 6.5 kg) executed three trials of releve and arabesque on pointe shoes under two conditions: 'dead' (108-144 training hours) and 'new' (3-36 training hours). While wearing 'dead' pointe shoes, dancers had significantly higher sway area during both releve and arabesque (p = 0.017 and 0.028, respectively). Dancers exhibit significantly higher tibialis anterior activation (root mean square, %maximum voluntary contraction) during arabesque while wearing 'dead' pointe shoes (p = 0.043). No significant differences were identified in other dependent variables. The increased sway area and tibialis anterior muscle activity when wearing 'dead' pointe shoes during releve and arabesque movements demonstrates that using 'dead' shoes is more demanding. Our findings provide quantitative evidence of possible deleterious biomechanical changes when wearing dead pointe shoes that may increase LE injury risk in dancers.		[Aquino, Jessica; Amasay, Tal; Shapiro, Sue; Kuo, Yi-Tzu] Barry Univ, Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Miami, FL 33161 USA; [Ambegaonkar, Jatin P.] George Mason Univ, Coll Educ & Human Dev, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Manassas, VA USA; [Amasay, Tal] Barry Univ, Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Miami, FL 33161 USA								21							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000647292800008	35	Article; Article		
J	Nicol, Emily; Ball, Kevin; Tor, Elaine								The biomechanics of freestyle and butterfly turn technique in elite swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	4			444	457		10.1080/14763141.2018.1561930			MAY 19 2021	2021	The swimming turn significantly contributes to overall race performance. Whilst the importance of the turn is well established within the literature, the biomechanical parameters that are most important to turn performance remain unclear. The aim of this study was to identify the key biomechanical parameters that influence freestyle and butterfly turn time within an elite population. An elite population was defined to include athletes who had represented Australia at a minimum of one international competition. Retrospective data from 39 male freestyle turns, 41 female freestyle turns, 21 male butterfly turns and 23 female butterfly turns were analysed. Regression analysis was used to identify the biomechanical parameters (e.g., peak power per kg, total time in underwater work) that were important to turn performance. Analysis revealed that no individual parameter strongly predicted turn performance for any of the investigated subsets. Results of the present study suggest that a holistic approach should be taken to improve turn performance. This would involve making technique changes to a number of biomechanical parameters rather than focussing on a single parameter. Developing training programmes in this way will increase the effectiveness of prescribed interventions and assist in maximising improvement made to turn performance.		[Nicol, Emily; Ball, Kevin; Tor, Elaine] Victoria Univ, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Nicol, Emily; Tor, Elaine] Victorian Inst Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Nicol, Emily] Victoria Univ, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Nicol, Emily] Victorian Inst Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								32							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000647292800006	26	Article; Article		
J	Virmavirta, Mikko; Kivekas, Juha								Is it still important to be light in ski jumping?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	4			407	418		10.1080/14763141.2018.1556326			MAY 19 2021	2021	In ski jumping low body weight development resulted in some serious underweight problems and therefore the International Ski Federation (FIS) decided to solve the problem by relating maximum ski length to Body Mass Index (BMI) in 2004. The present study examined the current relationship between body weight, ski length and performance (jumping distance) in ski jumping. By adopting the BMI regulation to specifications for competition equipment, the FIS succeeded in stopping the alarming development of underweight problems in ski jumping. However, as the results of the present study show, the BMI regulation adopted by the FIS has reduced the advantage of being light, but despite the use of shorter skis it is still beneficial to be light within certain limits. The present parametric study suggests that the weight of the jumper is a more sensitive factor to jump length than ski area (ski length). In fact, sensitivity analysis shows that reducing BMI by 1% requires a reduction of approximately 2.0% in ski area to compensate each other. Based on the available information of the complex relationship between body morphology and performance in ski jumping there seems to be no further need for a change in the BMI regulation.		[Virmavirta, Mikko] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Biol Phys Act, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Kivekas, Juha] Arteform Ltd, Espoo, Finland; [Virmavirta, Mikko] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Biol Phys Act, Jyvaskyla, Finland								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000647292800003	27	Article; Article		
J	Khatib, Ali; Post, Andrew; Hoshizaki, Thomas; Gilchrist, Michael D.								Brain trauma characteristics for lightweight and heavyweight fighters in professional mixed martial arts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	8			1083	1105		10.1080/14763141.2021.1922740			AUG 2 2024	2024	Mixed martial arts (MMA) is a sport where the fighters are at high risk of brain trauma, with characteristics, such as the frequency, magnitude, and interval of head impacts influencing the risk of developing short- and long-term negative brain health outcomes. These characteristics may be influenced by weight class as they may have unique fighting styles. The purpose of this research was to compare frequency, magnitude, and interval of head impacts between lightweight and heavyweight fighters in professional MMA. Frequency, interval, event type, velocity, and location of head impacts were documented for 60 fighters from 15 Lightweight and 15 Heavyweight professional MMA fights. Head impact reconstructions of these events were performed using physical and finite element modelling methods to determine the strain in the brain tissues. The results found that LW and HW fighters sustained similar head impact frequencies and intervals. The LW fighters sustained a significantly higher frequency of very low and high magnitude impacts to the head from punches; HW a larger frequency of high category strains from elbow strikes. These brain trauma profiles reflect different fight strategies and may inform methods to manage and mitigate the long-term effects of repetitive impacts to the head.		[Khatib, Ali; Post, Andrew] Univ Ottawa, Dept Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Hoshizaki, Thomas] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Gilchrist, Michael D.] Univ Coll Dublin, Mech & Mat Engn, Dublin, Ireland; [Post, Andrew] Univ Ottawa, Dept Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000652147700001	70	Article; Article		
J	Andersen, Jordan; Sinclair, Peter; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Sanders, Ross								Is torso twist production the primary role of the torso muscles in front crawl swimming?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	12			1602	1616		10.1080/14763141.2021.1925334			DEC 2 2023	2023	The torso muscles play important roles in longitudinal rotation between the upper and lower torso on land but demands on these muscles at different swimming speeds and their role in torso twist in front crawl remains unclear. We aimed to compare torso muscle activity at different front crawl speeds and to assess the relationships between torso muscle activity and torso twist. Three-dimensional kinematics and torso muscle EMG data were collected from 15 male swimmers during middle-distance and sprint front crawl. Internal oblique, external oblique, and rectus abdominis, but not erector spinae, activities were greater at sprint than middle-distance pace. Sprint swimmers are likely to benefit from focusing training on the abdominal muscles. Cross-correlation peak coefficients between muscle activity and torso twist occurred with 517-775 and 400-600 ms lag at middle-distance and sprint paces (respectively). These lags are beyond the torso muscle electromechanical delay (similar to 220 ms) and are too long for these muscles to produce movement changes. Further, peak coefficients coincided with both positive and negative shifts, indicating that muscle activity did not always precede kinematic changes. The torso muscles are therefore likely to play a greater role in maintaining stability and controlling posture in front crawl than producing torso twist.		[Andersen, Jordan; Sinclair, Peter; Sanders, Ross] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, LABIOMEP, Porto, Portugal; [Andersen, Jordan] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000651718700001	38	Article; Article		
J	Praca, Gibson Moreira; Moreira, Pedro Emilio Drumond; Rochael, Marcelo; Barbosa, Gustavo; Travassos, Bruno								Designing facilitated task constraints for different age groups in soccer: The impact of floaters' rules								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			46	53	17479541211017448	10.1177/17479541211017448			FEB 2022	2022	This study compared the influence of changing floaters' rules on player positioning in small-sided games (SSG) played by different age groups. A total of 48 youth soccer players (24 U-13 and 24 U-14) took part in the study, playing three different SSGs: regular 3vs3, 1-floater condition (one floater playing for both teams), and 2-floater condition (one floater per team, with alternate participation). Positional data were collected by 5 Hz GPS devices, generating individual (spatial exploration index) and collective (team's length, width, length per width ratio, and stretching index) positional variables. The results revealed that the 2-floater format significantly reduced the length (p = 0.001), and both formats with floaters increased the width (p < 0.001). Also, the 1-floater format presented the lowest stretching index (p < 0.001). Concerning age-group differences, older players presented higher values of length (p < 0.001), length per width ratio (p < 0.001), and spatial exploration index (p < 0.001) than their younger counterparts. The 2-floater SSG format is a more facilitated and simplified version of numerically unbalanced SSGs, which might be considered by coaches when designing tasks adjusted to the level of the athletes.		[Praca, Gibson Moreira; Moreira, Pedro Emilio Drumond; Rochael, Marcelo; Barbosa, Gustavo] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CIDESD, Lisbon, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, FPF, Oeiras, Portugal; [Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sports Dept, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000652214700001	36	Article; Article		
J	Kohn, Michael A.; Smith, Melissa C.; Goble, Daniel J.								Upward gaze direction increases center of pressure displacement and decreases squat stability								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			197	201	17479541211016578	10.1177/17479541211016578			FEB 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to quantify differences in barbell back squat stability as a function of gaze direction. Sixteen female subjects who were experienced in barbell back squatting performed six sets of three squat repetitions, randomized according to three gaze directions (DOWN, STRAIGHT, and UP). Stability was determined based on the displacement of center of pressure (COP) during each squat repetition, measured using a low-cost, portable force plate. Multiple t-tests with statistical significance set at p < 0.05 were conducted between gaze directions and revealed significant differences in stability between the DOWN versus UP conditions. Specifically, DOWN had the smallest COP displacement, with significantly larger COP displacement in the UP condition (p = 0.02). There were no significant differences when DOWN or UP was compared to STRAIGHT (p = 0.22 and p = 0.28 respectively). From a practical standpoint, these results suggest that having a downward gaze direction during barbell back squat will maximize stability and reduce the likelihood of injury.		[Kohn, Michael A.; Smith, Melissa C.; Goble, Daniel J.] Oakland Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Exercise Sci Program, 433 Meadow Brook Rd, Rochester, MI 48309 USA; [Goble, Daniel J.] Oakland Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Exercise Sci Program, 433 Meadow Brook Rd, Rochester, MI 48309 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000652217500001	14	Article; Article		
J	DeFroda, Steven F.; Bodendorfer, Blake M.; Hartnett, Davis A.; Milner, John D.; Yang, Daniel S.; Silber, Zachary S.; Forsythe, Brian								Defining the contemporary epidemiology and return to play for high ankle sprains in the National Football League								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	4			301	305		10.1080/00913847.2021.1924046			JUL 4 2022	2022	Background: High ankle sprains and syndesmotic injuries are commonly sustained by National Football League players, yet there is apaucity of literature reporting the incidence, risk factors and return to play (RTP) rates for these injuries. The purpose of this study is to examine the epidemiology and trends in incidence of high ankle sprains across 11 NFL seasons. Methods: Publicly available data from the 2009-2010 through 2019-20 seasons were reviewed to identify injuries and collect player characteristics and return to play. Incidence of high ankle injuries was calculated per 10,000 athlete-exposures. Linear regression was performed for incidence of injuries. Risk factors for failure to RTP were identified through multivariate logistic regression, controlling foryear of injury, player position, body mass index (BMI), age at injury, and years of experience before injury. Results: A total of 533 high ankle sprains were identified in 498 players at an average age of 25.8 +/- 3.1 and average BMI of 31.8 +/- 4.6. The annual incidence of high ankle sprains in the NFL increased at alinear rate of 0.067per 10,000 player exposures (R-2 = 0.3357) in 2009, to 1.75per 10,000 player exposures to 2.49 in 2019-20. Most injuries were in offensive players (304/533 injuries, 57.0%). Overall, 89.7% (478/533) of players returned to play; average RTP time was 80.5 +/- 132.9 days. Defensive players had afaster RTP (68.1 +/- 114.6 days) compared to offensive players (90.1 +/- 144.8 days) (p = 0.084). Higher age at injury was found to increase the risk of failure to RTP (p = 0.0088). Conclusion: RTP rate was high following high ankle sprain aamongNFL players at 90%, with an average recovery period of 11 weeks. Defensive players experience RTP faster than offensive players. Future studies are needed to determine performance outcomes following RTP, along with which patients might benefit from surgery.		[DeFroda, Steven F.; Bodendorfer, Blake M.; Forsythe, Brian] Rush Univ, Rush Med Coll, Med Ctr, Div Sports Med,Dept Orthoped Surg, Chicago, IL 60612 USA; [Hartnett, Davis A.; Milner, John D.; Yang, Daniel S.; Silber, Zachary S.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Milner, John D.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [DeFroda, Steven F.] Rush Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Div Sports Med, 1611 West Harrison St,Suite 300, Chicago, IL 60612 USA								11							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000649178000001	20	Article; Article		
J	Salgado-Barandela, Jesyca; Barajas, Angel; Sanchez-Fernandez, Patricio								Sports event portfolios: an innovative tool and a new management paradigm								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				23	5			920	933		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2021-0024			SEP 21 2022	2022	Purpose The organization of several small-scale events throughout the year is called event portfolio and may contribute to the development of the city strategy in the touristic, social and economic fields. The organization of a set of sporting events represents an important innovation in the development of city marketing. This paper analyzing the scarce literature on event portfolio provides the main elements to benefit from this innovative strategy to achieve sustainable sports tourism for host cities. Among the innovative strategies, the inclusion of leverage and cross-leverage approaches in the management of event portfolios is studied in depth. Design/methodology/approach The study is divided into two phases. First, the Web of Science (WOS) and SCOPUS databases are searched using keywords. Once the selection of scientific studies that analyze the phenomenon of event portfolios has been obtained, an exhaustive review is carried out, allowing us to obtain novel findings on the field of study. Findings The work provides a classification of the portfolios of sports events analyzed in science considering the configuration (formal vs informal) and whether there is an integrated strategy. Second, the delimitation of the deficiencies and the most important aspects to be developed in sports-events portfolio management. Originality/value This study contributes with a summary of the main elements to consider when managing sports events portfolios. Moreover, the importance of integrated strategies is underlined, as well as the relevance of leveraging the strategies. The contributions are of interest in being a novel field with room for scientific development and with an eminently practical nature.		[Salgado-Barandela, Jesyca; Sanchez-Fernandez, Patricio] Univ Vigo, Dept Finance & Accountancy, Vigo, Spain; [Barajas, Angel] HSE Univ, St Petersburg, Russia; [Barajas, Angel] HSE Univ, St Petersburg, Russia								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000649430500001	63	Article; Article		
J	Jimenez-Perez, Irene; Ignacio Priego-Quesada, Jose; Camacho-Garcia, Andres; Cibrian Ortiz de Anda, Rosa Ma; Perez-Soriano, Pedro								Impact accelerations during a prolonged run using a microwavable self-customised foot orthosis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	7			935	948		10.1080/14763141.2021.1902553			JUL 2 2024	2024	The use of custom-made foot orthoses has been associated with numerous benefits, such as decreased impact accelerations. However, it is not known whether this effect could be due to better customisation. The present study analysed the effects of the first generation of a microwavable prefabricated self-customised foot orthosis vs. a prefabricated standard one on impact accelerations throughout a prolonged run. Thirty runners performed two tests of 30-min running on a treadmill, each one with an orthosis condition. Impact acceleration variables of tibia and head were recorded every 5 min. Microwavable self-customised foot orthosis increased the following variables in the first instants compared to the prefabricated standard one: tibial peak (min1: 6.5 (1.8) vs. 6.0 (1.7) g, P = .009, min5: 6.6 (1.7) vs. 6.2 (1.7) g, P = .035), tibial magnitude (min1: 8.3 (2.6) vs. 7.7 (2.4) g, P = .030, min5: 8.5 (2.6) vs. 7.9 (2.5) g, P = .026) and shock attenuation (min1: 61.4 (16.8) vs. 56.3 (16.3)%, P = .014, min5: 62.0 (15.5) vs. 57.2 (15.3)%, P = .040), and tibial rate throughout the entire run (504.3 (229.7) vs. 422.7 (212.9) g/s, P = .006). However, it was more stable throughout 30-min running (P < .05). These results show that the shape customisation entailed by the thermoformable material does not provide impact acceleration improvements.		[Jimenez-Perez, Irene; Ignacio Priego-Quesada, Jose; Camacho-Garcia, Andres; Perez-Soriano, Pedro] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sports Biomech GIBD, Valencia, Spain; [Jimenez-Perez, Irene; Ignacio Priego-Quesada, Jose; Cibrian Ortiz de Anda, Rosa Ma] Univ Valencia, Dept Physiol, Res Grp Med Phys GIFIME, Valencia, Spain; Univ Politecn Valencia, Dept Commun, Alicante, Spain; [Jimenez-Perez, Irene] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Res Grp Sports Biomech GIBD, Valencia, Spain; [Jimenez-Perez, Irene] Univ Valencia, Dept Physiol, Res Grp Med Phys GIFIME, Valencia, Spain								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000661788000001	51	Article; Article		
J	Nagahara, Ryu; Gleadhill, Sam								Catapult start likely improves sprint start performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			114	122	17479541211015123	10.1177/17479541211015123			FEB 2022	2022	Sprint technical training, named the catapult start, is defined as partner assisted pulling of the hip backward at the set position and during block clearance, released by the forward motion of the athlete. This study investigated the characteristics of the catapult start and its influence on the following sprint start performance. Fourteen male sprinters performed a single 15-m control, catapult, and post-catapult sprint starts, during which ground reaction forces (GRFs) were measured using force platforms. All measured GRF variables during the block clearance, except for the impulses and mean forces on the front block and ratio of force for the rear block, were greater in the catapult start than the control (effect size [ES]=0.52-2.09). Waveform analyses revealed that the rear block anteroposterior GRF was greater for the catapult start than the control during the initial, middle and final phases (0 to 20%, 40 to 61% and 95 to 100%) of block clearance, while the rear block ratio of force was greater for the catapult start until 13% of block clearance. The catapult start resulted in greater rear block ratio of force (ES = 0.28), faster 10-m sprint time (ES = 0.31) and greater average horizontal external power during the initial 10-m (ES = 0.25) at the post-catapult trial. The results suggest that the catapult start can be accompanied with greater force production mainly for the rear block regardless of direction during the block clearance, and it can improve post-catapult sprint start performance in terms of the rear block ratio of force and 10-m sprint time.		[Nagahara, Ryu; Gleadhill, Sam] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Shiromizu Cho, Kanoya, Kagoshima 8912393, Japan; [Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Shiromizu Cho, Kanoya, Kagoshima 8912393, Japan								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000649484600001	24	Article; Article		
J	Robinson, Mark A.; Sharir, Raihana; Rafeeuddin, Radin; Vanrenterghem, Jos; Donnelly, Cyril J.								The non-sagittal knee moment vector identifies 'at risk' individuals that the knee abduction moment alone does not								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	1			80	90		10.1080/14763141.2021.1903981			JAN 2 2023	2023	Multi-planar forces and moments are known to injure the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). In ACL injury risk studies, however, the uni-planar frontal plane external knee abduction moment is frequently studied in isolation. This study aimed to determine if the frontal plane knee moment (KM-Y) could classify all individuals crossing a risk threshold compared to those classified by a multi-planar non-sagittal knee moment vector (KM-YZ). Recreationally active females completed three sports tasks-drop vertical jumps, single-leg drop vertical jumps and planned sidesteps. Peak knee abduction moments and peak non-sagittal resultant knee moments were obtained for each task, and a risk threshold of the sample mean plus 1.6 standard deviations was used for classification. A sensitivity analysis of the threshold from 1-2 standard deviations was also conducted. KM-Y did not identify all participants who crossed the risk threshold as the non-sagittal moment identified unique individuals. This result was consistent across tasks and threshold sensitivities. Analysing the peak uni-planar knee abduction moment alone is therefore likely overly reductionist, as this study demonstrates that a KM-YZ threshold identifies 'at risk' individuals that a KM-Y threshold does not. Multi-planar moment metrics such as KM-YZ may help facilitate the development of screening protocols across multiple tasks.		[Robinson, Mark A.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Sharir, Raihana; Rafeeuddin, Radin] Univ Teknol MARA, Fac Sport Sci & Recreat, Shah Alam, Malaysia; [Vanrenterghem, Jos] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Movement & Rehabil Sci, Musculoskeletal Rehabil Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [Donnelly, Cyril J.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Rehabil Res Inst Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; [Robinson, Mark A.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000647382500001	39	Article; Article		
J	Khalil, Aya A.; Docherty, Carrie L.; Elhafez, Salam M.; Mattar, Ayman G.								Validity and reliability of the Arabic version of the Identification of Functional Ankle Instability questionnaire (IdFAI-Ar) in college-aged population								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				250	254		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.03.008			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: The aims of this work are to culturally adapt the Identification of Functional Ankle Instability questionnaire (IdFAI) into Arabic language and to examine its psychometrics. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: This research took place at Cairo University in Egypt. Participants: Twenty eight college-aged students participated in the translation and cultural adaptation, while another 86 college-aged students participated in the measurements (validity and reliability). Main outcome measures: The original IdFAI was translated into Arabic language using standard guidelines. The Arabic version of the IdFAI (IdFAI-Ar) and the Arabic version of the Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS-Ar) were applied to 86 college-aged students with and without functional ankle instability. The IdFAI-Ar was tested on two occasions with an interval of one week to investigate its psychometrics. Results: The IdFAI-Ar had a moderate correlation with LEFS-Ar and a strong correlation with ankle status classification. The reliability and internal consistency were excellent. The accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity were 0.91, 0.80, and 0.99 respectively. Conclusion: The IdFAI-Ar has high validity and reliability. It can be used in clinical and research practices as a region-specific tool to discriminate between participants with and without functional ankle instability in the Arabic-speaking countries. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Khalil, Aya A.; Elhafez, Salam M.; Mattar, Ayman G.] Cairo Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech Dept, Giza, Egypt; [Docherty, Carrie L.] Indiana Univ, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN USA; [Khalil, Aya A.] Cairo Univ, Biomech Dept, Giza, Egypt; [Khalil, Aya A.] 7 Ahmed Ezzayat St, Giza, Egypt								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700036	21	Article; Article		
J	Read, Paul J.; Mc Auliffe, Sean; Thomson, Athol								Commonly used clinical criteria following ACL reconstruction including time from surgery and isokinetic limb symmetry thresholds are not associated with between-limb loading deficits during running								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				236	242		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.03.010			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: We included objective measures of gait and functional assessments to examine their associations in athletes who had recently commenced running after ACL reconstruction. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Sports medicine. Participants: 65 male athletes with a history of ACL reconstruction. Main outcome measures: Time from surgery, isokinetic knee extension/flexion strength (60?/s), and peak vertical ground reaction force (pVGRF) measured during running using an instrumented treadmill. We also investigated if a range of recommended isokinetic thresholds (e.g. 70% quadriceps limb symmetry index) affected the magnitude of pVGRF asymmetry during running. Results: There were significant relationships between quadriceps (r = 0.50) and hamstrings (r = 0.46) peak torque and pVGRF. Quadriceps peak torque explained a quarter of the variance in pVGRF (R-2 = 0.24; p < 0.001). There was no association was between running pVGRF and time from surgery. Between-group differences in running pVGRF LSI% were trivial (d < 0.20) for all quadriceps and hamstring peak torque LSI thresholds. Conclusions: Current clinical criteria including time from surgery and isokinetic strength limb symmetry thresholds were not associated with lower pVGRF asymmetry measured during running. Quadriceps strength is important, but 'minimum symmetry thresholds' should be used with caution. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Read, Paul J.; Thomson, Athol] Med Hosp, Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Read, Paul J.] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Read, Paul J.] UCL, Div Surg & Intervent Sci, London, England; [Read, Paul J.] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Cheltenham, Glos, England; [Mc Auliffe, Sean] Qatar Univ, Physiotherapy Program, Doha, Qatar; [Thomson, Athol] La Trobe Univ, Discipline Podiatry, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Thomson, Athol] Med Hosp, Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700034	50	Article; Article		
J	Yabroudi, Mohammad A.; Bashaireh, Khaldoon; Nawasreh, Zakariya H.; Snyder-Mackler, Lynn; Logerstedt, David; Maayah, Mikhled								Rehabilitation duration and time of starting sport-related activities associated with return to the previous level of sports after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				164	170		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.02.014			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: To determine predictors for return to previous level of sports after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional; Setting: Athletic teams. Participants: Ninety-one athletes who had ACLR with hamstring-tendon autograft within 1-5 years participated in this study. Athletes indicated their sport participation levels, injury profile, rehabilitation duration, and time to start sport-related activities (running, cutting-pivoting) after ACLR. Athletes answered whether they returned to the same previous level of frequency, duration, and intensity of sports. Main outcome measures: Athletes' characteristics, injury and surgical factors, duration of post-operative rehabilitation program, and time to start sport-related activities after ACLR were evaluated by univariate logistic regression to determine predictors for return to previous level of sports. Results: Nine athletes (10%) returned to their self-described previous level of sports. Predictors for returning to previous level of sports were rehabilitation duration > 4 months (OR:6.78; p = .011), time to start running < 4 months (OR:8.62; p = .047) and cutting-pivoting < 6 months after surgery (OR:5.02; p = .030). Conclusion: Longer post-operative rehabilitation duration and time to start sport-related activities after ACLR predicted return to previous level of sports. Spending adequate time in post-operative rehabilitation program and time-based resumption of sports-related activities after ACLR might be key factors for returning to previous sports level. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Yabroudi, Mohammad A.; Nawasreh, Zakariya H.; Maayah, Mikhled] Jordan Univ Sci & Technol JUST, Dept Rehabil Sci, POB 3030, Irbid 22110, Jordan; [Bashaireh, Khaldoon] Jordan Univ Sci & Technol JUST, Dept Special Surg, Coll Med, POB 3030, Irbid 22110, Jordan; [Bashaireh, Khaldoon] Yarmouk Univ, Fac Med, Irbid 21163, Jordan; [Snyder-Mackler, Lynn] Univ Delaware, Dept Phys Therapy, 540 South Coll Ave, Newark, DE 19713 USA; [Logerstedt, David] Univ Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 600 South 43rd St, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Yabroudi, Mohammad A.] Jordan Univ Sci & Technol, POB 3030, Irbid 22110, Jordan								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700025	60	Article; Article		
J	Almeida, Gabriel Peixoto Leao; Rodrigues, Helena Larissa das Neves; Coelho, Bruno Augusto Lima; Rodrigues, Carlos Augusto Silva; Lima, Pedro Olavo de Paula								Anteromedial versus posterolateral hip musculature strengthening with dose-controlled in women with patellofemoral pain: A randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				149	156		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.02.016			MAY 2021	2021	Objective: To compare the effectiveness of adding anteromedial versus posterolateral hip musculature strengthening to knee strengthening in women with patellofemoral pain (PFP). Design: Randomized controlled trial. Setting: University physiotherapy clinic. Participants: Fifty-two women with PFP were randomized to receive either anteromedial (AMHG) or posterolateral (PLHG) hip musculature strengthening. Main outcome measures: The primary outcomes were pain intensity by the numeric pain rating scale and function by the Anterior Knee Pain Scale in six weeks. Secondary outcomes were pain and function at six months, global perceived effect at six weeks and six months, pain in step down, isometric torque of abductors, adductors and hip rotators measured with hand-held dynamometer, and dynamic knee valgus by step down in six weeks. Results: Both groups showed improvement in primary outcomes; however, no differences were found between groups in pain intensity and function in six weeks and the secondary outcomes. Group x time interaction found superior gains in abductor strength in the PLHG and increase in the strength of the adductors and internal rotators in AMHG. Conclusion: There was no difference between the addition of anteromedial or posterolateral hip musculature strengthening to knee strengthening in improving pain and function in women with PFP. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Almeida, Gabriel Peixoto Leao; Rodrigues, Helena Larissa das Neves; Coelho, Bruno Augusto Lima; Rodrigues, Carlos Augusto Silva; Lima, Pedro Olavo de Paula] Univ Fed Ceara, Sch Med, Phys Therapy Dept, Knee & Sports Res Grp, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil; [Almeida, Gabriel Peixoto Leao; Rodrigues, Carlos Augusto Silva; Lima, Pedro Olavo de Paula] Univ Fed Ceara, Sch Med, Phys Therapy Dept, Master Program Phys Therapy & Functioning, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil; [Almeida, Gabriel Peixoto Leao] Alexandre Barauna St 949,1 Andar, BR-60430160 Fortaleza, CE, Brazil								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700023	43	Article; Article		
J	Strong, Andrew; Srinivasan, Divya; Hager, Charlotte K.								Development of supine and standing knee joint position sense tests								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				112	121		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.02.010			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: We aimed to assess the test-retest reliability of a supine and standing knee joint position sense (JPS) test, respectively, and whether they discriminate knees with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury from asymptomatic knees. Design: Repeated measures and cross-sectional. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: For test-retest reliability, 24 persons with asymptomatic knees. For discriminative analysis: 1) ACLR -18 persons on average 23 months after unilateral ACL reconstruction, 2) CTRL - 23 less-active persons, and 3) ATHL - 21 activity level-matched athletes. Main outcome measures: Absolute error (AE) and variable error (VE). Results: Test-retest reliability was generally highest for AE of the standing test (ICC 0.64-0.91). Errors were less for the standing compared to the supine test across groups. CTRL had greater knee JPS AE (P = 0.005) and VE (P = 0.040) than ACLR. ACLR knees showed greater VE compared to the contralateral non-injured knees for both tests (P = 0.032), albeit with a small effect size (eta(2)(p) = 0.244). Conclusions: Our standing test was more reliable and elicited lesser errors than our supine test. Less-active controls, rather than ACLR, produced significantly greater errors. Activity level may be a more predominant factor than ACLR for knee JPS similar to 2 years post-reconstruction. (c) 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Strong, Andrew; Hager, Charlotte K.] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Physiotherapy, Umea, Sweden; [Srinivasan, Divya] Virginia Polytech Inst & State Univ, Dept Ind & Syst Engn, Blacksburg, VA 24061 USA; [Strong, Andrew] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Physiotherapy, Umea, Sweden								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700016	65	Article; Article		
J	Bordessa, Jacqueline M.; Hearn, Mason C.; Reinfeldt, Alexander E.; Smith, Tyler A.; Baweja, Harsimran S.; Levy, Susan S.; Rosenthal, Michael D.								Comparison of blood flow restriction devices and their effect on quadriceps muscle activation								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				90	97		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.02.005			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: Blood flow restriction training (BFRT) provides an alternative approach to traditional strength training. The purpose of this study was to determine differences in quadriceps muscle activation, subject reported pain, and perceived exertion between three exercise conditions: low-load resistance BFRT with (1) regulated and (2) standardized devices, and (3) high-load resistance exercise without BFRT. Design: Randomized cross over study. Setting: XX University Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Thirty-four healthy subjects (18 male/16 female) each completed three randomized sessions of knee extensions using Delfi's Personalized Tourniquet System (R) at 30% of 1 repetition maximum (1RM), the B-StrongTM device (S) at 30% 1RM, and high-load resistance exercise (HL) at 80% 1RM. Main outcome measures: Quadriceps EMG activity, numeric pain rating scale (NPRS), and perceived exertion (OMNI-RES) were recorded. Results: Average and peak EMG were greater in HL sessions than both S and R (p < .001). NPRS was greater in the R sessions compared to both S (p < .001) and HL (p < .001). OMNI-RES was greater in the R sessions compared to S (p < .02) and HL (p < .001). No differences (p > .05) in average or peak EMG activation were found between S and R sessions. Conclusions: Quadriceps EMG amplitude was greater during high-load resistance exercise versus low load BFR exercise and there were no differences in EMG findings between BFRT devices. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bordessa, Jacqueline M.; Hearn, Mason C.; Reinfeldt, Alexander E.; Smith, Tyler A.; Baweja, Harsimran S.; Levy, Susan S.; Rosenthal, Michael D.] San Diego State Univ, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Smith, Tyler A.] San Diego State Univ, San Diego, CA 92182 USA								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700013	35	Article; Article		
J	Van Cant, J.; Decleve, P.; Garnier, A.; Roy, J. S.								Influence of symptom frequency and severity on hip abductor strength and endurance in individuals with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				83	89		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.02.001			MAY 2021	2021	Objective: To compare clinical measures of hip abductor strength and endurance of individuals with patellofemoral pain with more severe symptoms to those with less severe symptoms. Design: Cross-sectional. Settings: Laboratory. Participants: Sixty participants with patellofemoral pain were divided three times into 2 groups according to three symptomatology criteria: functional capacity, pain frequency and pain severity. Main outcome measures: Isometric strength evaluated using a hand-held dynamometer, endurance using maximum number of repetitions and maximum holding time, functional capacity using the Anterior Knee Pain Scale, pain frequency using a 2-category scale (?Less frequent? = 1-2 times a week; ?More frequent? = >3 times a week) and pain severity using Numeric Pain Rating Scales. Results: Participants with more frequent symptoms and with more severe pain were significantly weaker (10%, p = 0.04 and 16%, p = 0.001, respectively), and had less isometric (17%, p = 0.02 and 24%, p = 0.002, respectively) and dynamic (13%, p = 0.02 and 23%, p = 0.007, respectively) endurance compared to those with less pronounced symptoms. Conclusion: Our study highlighted that hip abductor strength and endurance deficits are more pronounced in individuals with more severe and frequent pain. ? 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Van Cant, J.] Univ Libre Bruxelles, Fac Motor Sci, Brussels, Belgium; [Van Cant, J.; Decleve, P.; Garnier, A.] Inst Parnasse ISEI, Dept Phys Therapy, Ave Mounier 84, B-1200 Brussels, Belgium; [Roy, J. S.] Univ Laval, Fac Med, Dept Readaptat, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Roy, J. S.] Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil & Social Integr, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Van Cant, J.] Univ Libre Bruxelles, Fac Motor Sci, Brussels, Belgium								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700012	31	Article; Article		
J	Watabe, Takaya; Takabayashi, Tomoya; Tokunaga, Yuta; Kubo, Masayoshi								Individuals with chronic ankle instability exhibit altered ankle kinematics and neuromuscular control compared to copers during inversion single-leg landing								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				77	82		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.02.006			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: This study compares the ankle kinematics and muscle activities of the individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI), coper, and control groups in normal and inversion single-leg landings. Design: cross-sectional study; Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Physically active adults with CAI (N = 12); and coper (N = 12) and control (N = 12) groups. Main outcome measures: The participants performed normal and inversion single-leg landing. The muscle activity 200 ms before and after landing of the tibialis anterior, the medial gastrocnemius, and the fibularis longus (FL) were recorded. The FL latency, sagittal and frontal co-contraction indexes (CCI), ankle inversion angle at the initial contact, and the maximum inversion angle were recorded. Results: Significantly longer FL latency, decreased FL muscle activity, frontal CCI, and an increased maximum inversion angle at post-landing were discovered during inversion single-leg landing in the CAI group compared to the coper and control groups. However, no significant difference was observed among the CAI and coper groups during normal single-leg landing. Conclusion: These results suggest prolonged FL latency and altered ankle kinematics suggest an increased risk of recurrent lateral ankle sprains in CAI with inversion single-leg landing. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Watabe, Takaya; Takabayashi, Tomoya; Tokunaga, Yuta; Kubo, Masayoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Kita Ku, 1398 Shimami Cho, Niigata 9503198, Japan; [Watabe, Takaya] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Kita Ku, 1398 Shimami Cho, Niigata 9503198, Japan								26							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700011	40	Article; Article		
J	Dingenen, Bart; Billiet, Bart; De Baets, Liesbet; Bellemans, Johan; Truijen, Jan; Gokeler, Alli								Rehabilitation strategies of Flemish physical therapists before and after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: An online survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				68	76		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.02.003			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: The primary objective of the study was to investigate rehabilitation strategies of Flemish physical therapists before and after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. Secondly, we aimed to investigate physical therapists' preferences on continuing education and evaluate their self-rated confidence and competence when treating patients before and after ACL reconstruction. Design: Survey-based study. Setting: Online survey platform. Participants: Flemish physical therapists (n = 283). Main outcome measures: The online survey consisted of a combination of 40 open- and closed-ended questions, divided across 5 sections: (1) participant demographics and clinical practice information, (2) patient population information, (3) continued education practices, (4) rehabilitation strategies, and (5) physical therapist self-rated confidence and competence to treat patients with ACL reconstruction. Results: A wide variability in rehabilitation strategies were found across the whole ACL rehabilitation continuum, which were in general not in line with best available evidence. Nevertheless, the overall self rated confidence and competence of physical therapists treating patients before and after ACL reconstruction were high. Conclusion: Our findings indicate a need to improve rehabilitation practices before and after ACL reconstruction. Advanced research dissemination and implementation are required to achieve better rehabilitation outcomes. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dingenen, Bart; Billiet, Bart; De Baets, Liesbet] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Reval Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Bellemans, Johan; Truijen, Jan] Ziekenhuis Oost Limburg, Dept Orthoped Surg, Genk, Belgium; [Bellemans, Johan; Truijen, Jan] Hasselt Univ, Fac Med & Life Sci, Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Gokeler, Alli] Paderborn Univ, Dept Exercise & Hlth, Exercise Sci & Neurosci, Fac Sci, Paderborn, Germany; [Gokeler, Alli] Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Med Ctr,VU Med Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gokeler, Alli] Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Publ Hlth Res Inst, VU Med Ctr, Med Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Dingenen, Bart] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Reval Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700010	39	Article; Article		
J	Belcher, Suzanne; Whatman, Chris; Brughelli, Matt; Borotkanics, Robert								Short and long versions of a 12-week netball specific neuromuscular warm-up improves landing technique in youth netballers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				31	36		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.01.016			MAY 2021	2021	Objective: To investigate the efficacy of two 'NetballSmart', netball specific warm-ups in improving landing technique measures in New Zealand secondary school netball players. Design: Multi-site cluster experimental trial. Participants: 77 youth participants, mean +/- SD age = 15.8 +/- 0.9 were recruited from secondary school netball teams. Setting: 12 teams from 6 schools performed either the NetballSmart Dynamic Warm-up (NSDW) (n = 37); or Power warm-up (PWU) (n = 40), three times a week for 12 weeks. All players within a school (2 teams) were assigned the same warm-up, avoiding treatment contamination. Main outcome measures: A series of unilateral and bilateral drop vertical jumps on to a portable force plate were completed by all participants. Measures included peak vertical ground reaction force (GRF) for single-leg and bilateral landings; frontal plane projection angle (FPPA) for right and left single-leg landings and Landing error scoring system (LESS) for bilateral landings. Paired t-tests were used to assess mean differences pre and post the warm-up. Generalised linear mixed effects models were developed to evaluate the effects between the NSDW and PWU groups. Results: Significant improvements were found in all the landing technique outcome measures for both warm-up groups (ES Range-GRF = -0.6 to -1.1; FPPA = 0.8 to 1.2; LESS = -1.6 to-3.2; p < 0.05). Results of mixed effects models revealed that there was only a significantly greater improvement in LESS for the PWU group (beta = -0.30, p = 0.001). Conclusion: Results show both warm-ups can improve landing technique measures in youth secondary school netball players. It is recommended that coaches should consider implementing one of the two warm-ups in their netball programmes. Their choice of warm-up will likely be dependent on their environment and time demands. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Belcher, Suzanne; Whatman, Chris; Brughelli, Matt; Borotkanics, Robert] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Sch Sport & Recreat, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Belcher, Suzanne] Netball New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Belcher, Suzanne] 1-30 Akehurst Ave, Auckland 0600, New Zealand								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700005	30	Article; Article		
J	Stern, Benjamin D.; Hegedus, Eric J.; Lai, Ying-Cheng								State dependence: Does a prior injury predict a future injury?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				8	14		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.01.008			MAY 2021	2021	The sports medicine literature is filled with associations between injury and causal factors. However, those results have been inconsistent. We?re left wondering which of our athletes might need more attention and where our efforts might be best spent. Resistance to injury is the result of interaction between many variables. These variables are interdependent with dynamic relationships which can be sometimes correlated, at times anti-correlated and from time to time show no relationship with injury risk. Relationships we may have seen yesterday do not necessarily hold true for today and we should not use those to infer what will happen. This perspective piece builds on prior works and describes how the complex interaction between injury determinants presents in other systems, why determinants are not stable and instead vary over time due to internal and external forcing and why our prediction ability remains limited even when determinants are identified. Patterns built from frequent time series data in conjunction with nonlinear dynamical methods can offer us a new approach to thinking about injury prediction. ? 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Stern, Benjamin D.] HonorHealth, Dept Outpatient Rehabil, Scottsdale, AZ 85258 USA; [Hegedus, Eric J.] Tufts Univ, Sch Med, Phys Therapy Program, Boston, MA 02111 USA; [Lai, Ying-Cheng] Arizona State Univ, Sch Elect Comp & Energy Engn, Tempe, AZ USA; [Stern, Benjamin D.] HonorHealth, Dept Outpatient Rehabil, Scottsdale, AZ 85258 USA								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700002	45	Article; Article		
J	O'Connor, Siobhan; Leahy, Roisin; Whyte, Enda; Farrington, Shane								Male and female Gaelic games coaches' and referees' experiences, knowledge and views on sports-related concussion								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				49				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.01.011			MAY 2021	2021	Objectives: Concern regarding identification and management of sports-related concussion (SRC) in the community sports of Gaelic games exists. This study aimed to examine Gaelic games coaches' and referees' previous SRC experiences, knowledge of and attitudes on SRC and views on SRC education. Design: Cross-sectional study; Setting: Online survey instrument. Participants: Irish male and female Gaelic games coaches (n = 144) and referees (n = 110). Main outcome measures: Demographics, SRC previous experience, SRC knowledge, attitudes towards SRC reporting and previous and future interest in SRC education. Results: Most coaches (70.1%) and referees (74.5%) previously dealt with a suspected SRC event. In the most recent SRC event, coaches predominantly removed the player from play (97.0%) and referees frequently informed medical staff (97.1%) or coaches present (96.3%). Coaches and referees were predominantly (>90%) able to identify common SRC signs and symptoms such as dizziness, nausea, confusion, poor balance and headache. Coaches and referees displayed positive attitudes towards removing players from play regardless of game importance. Conclusions: Good knowledge of common SRC symptoms were displayed, however their ability to recognise false signs and symptoms was limited. Widespread promotion of Gaelic games SRC education across all stakeholders is warranted and should target the misconceptions highlighted in this study. (c) 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[O'Connor, Siobhan; Leahy, Roisin; Whyte, Enda; Farrington, Shane] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Ctr Injury Prevent & Performance, Athlet Therapy & Training, Dublin, Ireland; [O'Connor, Siobhan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, A144B, Dublin 9, Ireland								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640795700001	25	Article; Article		
J	Buzzacchi, Luigi; Caviggioli, Federico; Milone, Francesco Luigi; Scotti, Davide								Impact and Efficiency Ranking of Football Managers in the Italian Serie A: Sport and Financial Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	7			744	776	15270025211012053	10.1177/15270025211012053			OCT 2021	2021	The contribution of managers to the performance of football teams in the Italian Serie A is investigated. Previous results are extended by analyzing two measures of performance: the awarded points from winning matches (sport performance) and the growth of the market value of players (financial performance). Several empirical methods are employed: OLS regressions, Shorrocks-Shapley decompositions of R-squared and Data Envelopment Analysis. Our findings suggest that managers exert a significant influence on both sport and financial performances with differences between top and worst coaches. However, most of the observable characteristics in a manager's curriculum are not significantly related to team performance.		[Buzzacchi, Luigi] Politecn Torino, Interuniv Dept Reg & Urban Studies & Planning DIS, Turin, Italy; [Buzzacchi, Luigi; Milone, Francesco Luigi] Politecn Torino, Future Urban Legacy Lab FULL, Turin, Italy; [Caviggioli, Federico; Milone, Francesco Luigi] Politecn Torino, Dept Management & Prod Engn DIGEP, Corso Duca Abruzzi 24, I-10129 Turin, Italy; [Scotti, Davide] Univ Bergamo, Dept Econ, Bergamo, Italy; [Caviggioli, Federico] Politecn Torino, Dept Management & Prod Engn DIGEP, Corso Duca Abruzzi 24, I-10129 Turin, Italy								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000649346600001	41	Article; Article		
J	Arede, Jorge; Fernandes, John; Moran, Jason; Leite, Nuno; Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel; Madruga-Parera, Marc								Effects of an integrative neuromuscular training protocol vs. FIFA 11+on sprint, change of direction performance and inter-limb asymmetries in young soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			54	62		10.1177/17479541211011438			FEB 2022	2022	This study compared the effects of integrative neuromuscular training (INT) versus FIFA 11+ protocols on sprint, change of direction performance and inter-limb asymmetries. Thirty young (U-11) male soccer players (age: 11.2 +/- 0.7 years; height: 145.6 +/- 6.8 cm; body mass: 72.5 +/- 3.0 kg) were randomly assigned to each training group, which consisted of two sessions/week for a period of 6-weeks. The INT consisted of play-based tasks designed according to structured training principles, whereas the FIFA 11+ followed standard procedures. Before and after the intervention, 0-20 sprint time and double 180 degrees change of direction test were measured from which change of direction deficit and inter-limb asymmetries were also computed. Significant improvements were found in double 180 degrees change of direction test and deficit for both legs in both groups (all p< 0.01). A significant decrease was observed in 0-20 sprint time (p< 0.05), and inter-limb asymmetries for FIFA 11+ group. A significant group-by-time effect, which favored the FIFA 11+ group, was observed on double 180 degrees change of direction in right leg (F = 15.08, p< 0.01, eta(2)(p) = 0.35), but also in change of direction deficit in right (F = 214.19, p< 0.01, eta(2)(p) = 0.88), and left legs (F = 126.79, p< 0.01, eta(2)(p) = 0.82). These findings suggest youth soccer practitioners should select the FIFA 11+ program to improve inter-limb asymmetries and 0-20 sprint time, and that both training methods are suitable to improve 180 degrees change of direction performance.		[Arede, Jorge; Leite, Nuno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Quinta De Prados, Portugal; [Fernandes, John] Hartpury Univ, Gloucester, England; [Moran, Jason] Univ Essex, Colchester, Essex, England; [Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel] Univ Int Catalunya, Phys Therapy Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Romero-Rodriguez, Daniel] FC Barcelona First Team Sport Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] Univ Girona, Univ Sch Hlth & Sport EUSES, Girona, Spain; [Madruga-Parera, Marc] FC Barcelona, Sports Performance Area, Sport Sci Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Arede, Jorge] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, CIDESD, Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Apartado 202, P-5001911 Vila Real, Portugal								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000649349800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Won, Doyeon; Bravo, Gonzalo A.; Chiu, Weisheng								Reciprocal and non-reciprocal employee-organization relationship: The mediating roles of felt obligation and workplace familism among collegiate coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1074	1085	17479541211013612	10.1177/17479541211013612			OCT 2021	2021	This study examined coaches' perceived organizational support (POS) on their affective commitment and turnover intention and the role played by felt obligation (a reciprocal exchange) and workplace familism (a non-reciprocal exchange) on these work-related outcomes. Based on the stratified random sampling, a total of 333 full-time head coaches employed in athletic departments affiliated with the NCAA responded to a web-based survey. Results indicated that POS was positively associated with workplace familism and felt obligation, but it did not directly predict affective commitment. POS, felt obligation, and workplace familism collectively predicted 78.1% of the variances in affective commitment. Workplace familism and affective commitment were negatively associated with turnover intention, while felt obligation was not directly associated with turnover intention. The mediated effect of felt obligation and workplace familism reveals that both types of reciprocal and non-reciprocal exchanges matter for coaches. Although, when compared, the influence of workplace familism was stronger than felt obligation. The findings of this study provide a better understanding of how POS affects positive work-related outcomes in the context of collegiate athletics and offer practical implications for athletic programs to develop the senses of felt-obligation and work familism, which lead to better employee-organization relationship.		[Won, Doyeon] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Dept Kinesiol, Corpus Christi, TX USA; [Bravo, Gonzalo A.] West Virginia Univ, Coll Phys Act & Sport Sci, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Chiu, Weisheng] Open Univ Hong Kong, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Ho Man Tin, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Chiu, Weisheng] Open Univ Hong Kong, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Ho Man Tin, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000649193400001	65	Article; Article		
J	Nilstad, Agnethe; Petushek, Erich; Mok, Kam-Ming; Bahr, Roald; Krosshaug, Tron								Kiss goodbye to the 'kissing knees': no association between frontal plane inward knee motion and risk of future non-contact ACL injury in elite female athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	1			65	79		10.1080/14763141.2021.1903541			JAN 2 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to investigate if frontal plane knee and hip control in single-leg squats or vertical drop jumps with an overhead target were associated with future non-contact anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury in elite female athletes. Of the 429 handball and 451 football athletes (age 21.5 +/- 4.0 years, height 169.6 +/- 6.4 cm, body weight 67.1 +/- 8.0 kg), 722 non-injured and 56 non-contact ACL injured participants were eligible for analysis. We calculated lateral pelvic tilt, frontal plane knee projection angle, medial knee position, and side-to-side asymmetry in these from 2D videos recorded at baseline, and recorded any new ACL injuries prospectively. None of the aforementioned variables in either screening task were different or could discriminate between injured and non-injured athletes (all p values >.05 and Cohen's d values < .27). Two-dimensional video assessment of frontal plane knee and hip control during both a single-leg squat and vertical drop jump was unable to identify individuals at increased risk of non-contact ACL injury, thus should not be used for screening.		[Nilstad, Agnethe; Bahr, Roald; Krosshaug, Tron] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Sports Med, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Oslo, Norway; [Petushek, Erich] Michigan Technol Univ, Dept Cognit & Learning Sci, Hlth Res Inst, Houghton, MI 49931 USA; [Mok, Kam-Ming] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Fac Med, Prince Wales Hosp, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Mok, Kam-Ming] Lingnan Univ, Off Student Affairs, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Krosshaug, Tron] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Sports Med, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Oslo, Norway								31							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000648206600001	48	Article; Article		
J	Simpson, Jeffrey D.; Koldenhoven, Rachel M.; Wilson, Samuel J.; Stewart, Ethan M.; Turner, Alana J.; Chander, Harish; Knight, Adam C.								Lower extremity joint kinematics of a simulated lateral ankle sprain after drop landings in participants with chronic ankle instability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	4			428	446		10.1080/14763141.2021.1908414			APR 21 2022	2022	This study examined lower extremity joint kinematics in individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI) and controls during unanticipated and anticipated single-leg drop landings onto a laterally inclined platform. Physically active adults with CAI 15 (n = 15) and controls (n = 15) performed an unanticipated and anticipated 30 cm single-leg drop landing onto a 20 degrees laterally inclined platform. Three-dimensional ankle, knee and hip-joint kinematics were recorded 200 ms pre- to 200 post-landing and analysed with a 2 (group) x 2 (landing condition) SPM ANOVA (p < 0.05). Results revealed individuals with CAI displayed significantly greater ankle internal rotation post-landing across both landing conditions. Anticipated landings elicited significantly greater pre-landing ankle inversion and external rotation, knee abduction and hip adduction. Additionally, significantly less ankle inversion, knee and hip flexion, and knee adduction and hip abduction were present during post-landing of the anticipated landing. Greater ankle internal rotation during landing may contribute to the ankle 'giving way' in individuals with CAI. However, preparatory and reactive proximal-joint kinematics were similar in both groups during landing. This highlights the possible role of the knee and hip joints in assisting with ankle-joint stability during anticipated inversion perturbations.		[Simpson, Jeffrey D.] Univ West Florida, Dept Movement Sci & Hlth, Pensacola, FL 01125 USA; [Koldenhoven, Rachel M.] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX USA; [Wilson, Samuel J.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA USA; [Stewart, Ethan M.; Turner, Alana J.; Chander, Harish; Knight, Adam C.] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA; [Stewart, Ethan M.] Baltimore Orioles, Major League Baseball, Baltimore, MD USA; [Simpson, Jeffrey D.] Univ West Florida, Dept Movement Sci & Hlth, Pensacola, FL 01125 USA								22							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000643829600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Lascu, Alexandra; Spratford, W.; Pyne, D. B.; Etxebarria, N.								Talent development in women's cricket: Perceptions and practices of elite players and coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			900	912	17479541211012943	10.1177/17479541211012943			AUG 2021	2021	Talent development is at the forefront of research in sport, where female athletes remain underrepresented. With ongoing success and rapid participation growth, there is an opportunity to describe and assess talent development in cricket for female athletes. Research in other sports recommends a holistic approach to talent development, where the connection between individual, task and environmental factors is maintained. A series of semi-structured interviews was conducted to draw from the experiential knowledge of 16 elite female athletes and 7 coaches alongside empirical knowledge regarding player development (individual), training task design and talent development environments. Both players and coaches reported positive early learning experiences, linear career trajectories and early entrance into talent programs, suggesting some early specialisation. Exposure to boy's/men's cricket appeared to fast-track skill development in players, and player skill adaptability was considered crucial to expert performance by both cohorts. Training design typically involved functional games-based scenarios, or misaligned task deconstruction in contrast to contemporary skill development practices. Aims for discrete stages of the pathway were ambiguous for both cohorts, potentially limiting the value they provide, and transition between stages appeared fluid to coaches in contrast to the rigidity described by players. Finally, growing professionalism in cricket for female athletes through greater investment, contracts and player support has propagated a skill gap between pathway stages identified by both cohorts, which needs addressing. Closing this skill gap can be achieved by improving coaching practices and support at the amateur levels of cricket to develop the next generation of elite female cricketers.		[Lascu, Alexandra; Spratford, W.; Pyne, D. B.; Etxebarria, N.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Lascu, Alexandra] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, 11 Kirinari St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000644058200001	50	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Salvador, Santiago Mico; Lujan, Jose Francisco Guzman; Reid, Machar; Ramon-Llin, Jesus; Crespo, Miguel								Challenging serve myths in doubles tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	6			1305	1311	17479541211008049	10.1177/17479541211008049			DEC 2021	2021	Doubles tennis has received little interest from quantitative research to date. Coach-led anecdotes therefore abound. The aims of this study were therefore to evaluate the veracity of the following common anecdotes: (a) serving teams have an advantage regardless of the length of the point; (b) serving teams have a greater advantage with new balls; (c) regular teams perform better when serving than new teams and (d) serving teams decrease their performance during break points. Data from doubles hard-court and clay-court tennis were collated for 52 doubles teams during 2018 ATP tournaments. Results revealed that the advantage of serving teams was evident on the points lasting up to 4 shots. Serving teams only had a greater advantage with new balls when playing on clay courts and suffered reduced winning probabilities on break points. A team's familiarity only seemed to positively influence outcomes on hard courts. In sum, our novel findings highlight the important role that quantitative analysis can play in challenging doubles convention and shaping contemporary practice design and match strategy.		[Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Salvador, Santiago Mico; Lujan, Jose Francisco Guzman] Univ Valencia, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Valencia, Spain; [Reid, Machar] Tennis Australia, Game Insight Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Ramon-Llin, Jesus] Univ Valencia, Dept Teaching Mus Visual & Corporal Express, Valencia, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Valencia, Spain; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Valencia, Spain								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000644054100001	38	Article; Article		
J	Lantis, Robert; Nesson, Erik								Hot Shots: An Analysis of the "Hot Hand" in NBA Field Goal and Free Throw Shooting								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	6			639	677	15270025211006889	10.1177/15270025211006889			AUG 2021	2021	We investigate the hot hand using detailed data on free throws and field goals attempts for 12 NBA seasons. We find a small hot hand for free throws, which more than doubles for longer streaks of made free throws. Both offenses and defenses respond to field goals, but a made field goal does not change the probability that a player makes his next field goal attempt, and longer streaks of made field goals reduce the probability that a player makes his next field goal attempt. Finally, a made field goal reduces the team's expected points on their next shot.		[Lantis, Robert; Nesson, Erik] Ball State Univ, Dept Econ, Miller Coll Business, 2000 W Univ Ave, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Lantis, Robert] Ball State Univ, Dept Econ, Miller Coll Business, 2000 W Univ Ave, Muncie, IN 47306 USA								15							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000643463300001	29	Article; Article		
J	Schroeder, Lauren E.; Valenzuela, Kevin A.; Zhang, Songning; Orme, John G.; Weinhandl, Joshua T.								Rounding the base: A lower extremity biomechanical analysis in softball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	6			1322	1331	17479541211008275	10.1177/17479541211008275			DEC 2021	2021	Contacting the base is a common injury mechanism for base runners in softball, with ankle sprains being the most common type of injury, but it is not known how the base affects lower extremity mechanics. The purpose of this study was to analyze lower extremity biomechanics while rounding a base. Sixteen recreationally active females with previous softball experience completed two base rounding conditions. A base was securely placed on the force place for the with base (WB) condition, and an outline of the base was taped on the force plate for the no base (NB) condition. Three-dimensional right-leg hip, knee, and ankle kinematics and kinetics were measured during the stance phase of the base rounding and analyzed using statistical parametric mapping (SPM). The WB condition resulted in decreased hip abduction (p = 0.034), increased dorsiflexion (p = 0.012), and decreased inversion (p < 0.001) angles. Increased hip extension (p < 0.001) and hip abduction (p = 0.016) moments were exhibited during the WB condition. Decreased hip abduction (p = 0.026), ankle plantarflexor (p < 0.001), and ankle eversion (p < 0.001) moments were also exhibited in the WB condition. The base acts as a lateral banking surface, reducing variables associated with ankle sprains, and likely assists in propelling base runners to the next base without injury.		[Schroeder, Lauren E.; Zhang, Songning; Weinhandl, Joshua T.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, 1914 Andy Holt Ave, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Valenzuela, Kevin A.] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Kinesiol, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Orme, John G.] Univ Tennessee, Coll Social Work, Knoxville, TN USA; [Weinhandl, Joshua T.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, 1914 Andy Holt Ave, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000643437800001	17	Article; Article		
J	Ko, Ji-Hyun; Han, Dong-Wook; Newell, Karl M.								Skill level and the free moment during a pistol aiming task								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	8			987	996		10.1080/14763141.2021.1903071			AUG 2 2024	2024	The present study investigated the transversal rotation of body and its relation to the horizontal movement for expert shooters and novices in a pistol aiming task. Participants stood on a force plate with an air pistol and aimed it to the centre of a target, positioned 1.4 m above the floor and 10 m away from the force plate, for 30 s as accurately as possible. The results revealed that the novice group showed greater transversal body variability represented by the free moment (FM) than the expert group. Correlation analysis showed that there is tight coupling between the FM and centre of pressure both in the anterior-posterior and medio-lateral directions for the expert group while only strong coupling of that in the anterior-posterior direction for the novice group. The findings suggest that FM is a critical factor to accurately aim the pistol on the target and there is a different postural strategy, in terms of the body motion in the transversal and horizontal space, as a function of skill level to realise success in the pistol aiming task.		[Ko, Ji-Hyun] Hanyang Univ, Div Sport Sci, Ansan, South Korea; [Han, Dong-Wook] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Jeonju, South Korea; [Newell, Karl M.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Han, Dong-Wook] Jeonbuk Natl Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Jeonju, South Korea								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000641513600001	26	Article; Article		
J	Rigozzi, Chantelle; Cox, Jeremy; Vio, Gareth A.; Martens, William L.; Poronnik, Philip								The effect of spin level and ball exit speed on forearm muscle activity in the tennis forehand stroke								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			123	133	17479541211007611	10.1177/17479541211007611			FEB 2022	2022	Elbow tendinopathy injuries are very common in tennis players. One of the commonly accepted theories describing the development of elbow tendinopathy in tennis is based on stiffness of the forearm skeletal muscle units and their repetitive overuse in the forehand stroke. Our objective was to use a novel microcontroller based wearable device to compare the influence of different forehand spin levels (flat, topspin and lob) and ball exit speed on forearm muscle activity in the potential onset of elbow tendinopathy in experienced adult tennis players. Peak normalised extensor carpi radialis (ECR) and flexor carpi radialis (FCR) muscle activity corresponding to each forehand shot and ball exit speed were determined and analysed. For the ECR shots (flat = 121, topspin = 272 and lob = 273) by 8 players, Kruskal-Wallis test (p < 0.001) and Post-Hoc tests revealed a significant difference between the flat and topspin spin levels (p < 0.01) and flat and lob spin levels (p < 0.001). For the FCR shots (flat = 125, topspin = 301 and lob = 303) by 9 players, Kruskal-Wallis test showed no significant difference between the three spin levels. For the corresponding ball speed, the Kruskal-Wallis (p < 0.001) and subsequent Post-Hoc (p < 0.001) showed that flat hits had the significantly highest ball speed followed by topspin then lob accordingly for both muscles included shots. Our results suggest that coaches could consider recommending players to hit forehands with topspin in order to potentially reduce the risk of developing lateral elbow tendinopathy.		[Rigozzi, Chantelle; Martens, William L.; Poronnik, Philip] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Sch Med Sci, Dept Physiol, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Cox, Jeremy; Vio, Gareth A.] Univ Sydney, Sch Aerosp Mech & Mechatron Engn, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Rigozzi, Chantelle] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Sch Med Sci, Dept Physiol, Camperdown, NSW 2006, Australia								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000643453600001	41	Article; Article		
J	Lussier, Jenna; Kim, Jun Woo; Magnusen, Marshall J.; Kim, Kyoung Tae								Card collection: An examination of whether yellow and red cards affect base salary under Major League Soccer's salary cap								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			161	168	17479541211011294	10.1177/17479541211011294			FEB 2022	2022	We examine the effect of card (yellow and red) collection on player remuneration under the salary cap in Major League Soccer (MLS). The data contain 1478 observations of 731 players under contract between 2015 and 2019. Though the number of yellow cards a player collected had a significant impact, the number of red cards collected was not found to be a significant factor. On average, when a player has accumulated more than eight yellow cards over the course of the regular season, his salary was dropped substantially. If a player receives more than two red cards, his salary was decreased. A key result was that players who were aggressive without crossing the line to the point of being ejected from the field of play received comparatively higher salaries.		[Lussier, Jenna; Kim, Jun Woo] Arcadia Univ, Sch Global Business, Glenside, PA 19038 USA; [Magnusen, Marshall J.] Baylor Univ, Dept Educ Leadership, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Kim, Kyoung Tae] Kean Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Union, NJ USA; [Kim, Jun Woo] Arcadia Univ, Sch Global Business, Glenside, PA 19038 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000643459600001	22	Article; Article		
J	Perez, Levi								Will We Lose If We Lose You? Players' Absence, Teams' Performance and the Overlapping of Competitions								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	6			722	734	15270025211008499	10.1177/15270025211008499			AUG 2021	2021	It is common for elite players to represent their respective countries in international competitions. However, there is a potential cost to the club team derived from that situation (risk of injury, fatigue, psychological momentum, etc.). This paper evaluates the impact of players' absence on European football teams' performance by focusing on the Africa Cup of Nations as the case study. The results indicate that the sending of players to the African tournament has a relatively small negative impact on teams' performance. But this cannot be generalized to all the leagues and loses significance when corrected by players' abilities.		[Perez, Levi] Univ Oviedo, Dept Econ, Oviedo, Spain; [Perez, Levi] Univ Oviedo, Fac Comercio Turismo & Ciencias Sociales Jovellan, Dept Econ, Luis Moya Blanco 261, Gijon 33203, Spain								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000643492800001	21	Article; Article		
J	Hibshman, Natalie; Yengo-Kahn, Aaron; Wiseman, Alyssa; Kelly, Patrick D.; Wu, Jeffanie; Monk, Steve; Harris, Glenn; Gannon, Stephen; Shannon, Chevis; Bonfield, Christopher M.								Child participation in collision sports and football: what influences parental decisions?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	2			171	180		10.1080/00913847.2021.1908867			MAR 4 2022	2022	Objective: Sport participation promotes health benefits for children. Current media and scientific coverage of sport-related head injury may influence a parent's decision on sports participation. Physicians must understand what influences these decisions to effectively counsel patients and families. This study sought to better understand and quantify the parental decisions to allow/disallow collision sports, including football participation. Methods: A 31-question survey related to child/parent demographics, sports history, and influences to allow/disallow sport participation was available to parents in the United States through a national volunteer registry, between November 2016 and September 2019. Pearson's chi-squared and Wilcoxon's signed-rank test were used to analyze categorical and continuous variables, respectively. Multivariate logistic regression was performed to identify the most powerful factors associated with the decision. Results: Of the 884 responses, 430 (49%) parents would disallow collision sport participation and 334 (38%) would disallow football. Parents who would allow collision sports more commonly cited child desire, while those parents who would disallow cited safety concern as the greatest influence to generally disallow a sport. Those who would disallow reported doctors (35.1% vs 25.3%; P = 0.002), media (12.8% vs 7.3%; P = 0.006) and other parents (11.2% vs 7.3%; P = 0.045) as influences. A child's age (OR 1.039, 95%CI 1.007-1.073; P = 0.018) was independently associated with their parent responding that they would allow collision sports. Parent educational status showed that those with higher than a bachelor's degree would be less likely to allow football participation (OR 0.635, 95%CI 0.443-0.910; P = 0.013). Conclusions: Parents incorporate many sources of information into the decision to allow or disallow their child to participate in collision sports. A child's desire to play a sport and child safety are driving factors for parents faced with the decision of whether to allow participation in collision sports. Physician input is more frequently influential to parents than the media, underscoring the responsibility of physicians to engage families on the risks, benefits, and resources available for sport participation.		[Hibshman, Natalie; Wu, Jeffanie] Vanderbilt Univ, Sch Med, Nashville, TN 37212 USA; [Hibshman, Natalie; Yengo-Kahn, Aaron; Bonfield, Christopher M.] Vanderbilt Univ Sch Med, Vanderbilt Sport Concuss Ctr, Nashville, TN USA; [Hibshman, Natalie; Yengo-Kahn, Aaron; Wiseman, Alyssa; Wu, Jeffanie; Gannon, Stephen; Shannon, Chevis; Bonfield, Christopher M.] Vanderbilt Univ, Surg Outcomes Ctr Kids, Monroe Carrell Jr Hosp, 221 Kirkland Hall, Nashville, TN 37235 USA; [Yengo-Kahn, Aaron; Kelly, Patrick D.; Shannon, Chevis; Bonfield, Christopher M.] Vanderbilt Univ Sch Med, Dept Neurol Surg, Nashville, TN USA; [Monk, Steve] Carolinas Med Ctr, Dept Neurol Surg, Charlotte, NC 28203 USA; [Harris, Glenn] Northwestern Univ, McGaw Hosp, Dept Neurol, Chicago, IL USA; [Hibshman, Natalie] Vanderbilt Univ, Med Ctr North T 4224, Sch Med, 1161 21st Ave S, Nashville, TN 37212 USA								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000640595100001	51	Article; Article		
J	Duncan, Michael J.; Noon, Mark; Clark, Cain C. T.; Eyre, Emma L. J.								Dose response effects of the BWF Shuttle Time Programme on children's actual and perceived fundamental movement skill competence								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	6			1312	1321	17479541211007886	10.1177/17479541211007886			DEC 2021	2021	This study examined dose-response effects of the Badminton World Federation (BWF) Shuttle Time programme on fundamental movement skills (FMS) and perceived FMS competence in 6-9-year olds. Children (n = 158, 83 boys, 75 girls, Mean +/- SD age = 7.6 +/- .97) were randomly allocated into three conditions: Shuttle Time 2Xweek; Shuttle Time 1Xweek; 3) control (CON) group. The intervention groups undertook the BWF Shuttle Time programme over a 10-week period in place of both or one of their statutory Physical Education lessons. FMS was assessed from the Test of Gross Motor Development 2. Perceived competence was assessed via the Pictorial Scale of Perceived Movement Skill Competence. Assessments were undertaken pre, post and 10 weeks post intervention. For FMS, a significant time X group interaction (P = .001) was evident. There was no significant difference in FMS between groups at pre (P > .05). Post intervention there were significant differences in FMS between 2X week and 1XWeek (P = .007), 2Xweek and control (P = .0001) and 1X Week and control (P = .007). From post to 10-weeks post there were significant improvements in FMS (P = .001) for the 2X week group. A significant time X group interaction (P = .0001) also indicated that perceived competence increased significantly pre to post for 1Xweek and 2Xweek groups, but not CON groups and was maintained at 10 weeks post (all P = .001).		[Duncan, Michael J.; Noon, Mark; Clark, Cain C. T.; Eyre, Emma L. J.] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Duncan, Michael J.] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, W Midlands, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000641923100001	41	Article; Article		
J	Kolias, Pavlos; Stavropoulos, Nikolaos; Papadopoulou, Alexandra; Kostakidis, Theodoros								Evaluating basketball player's rotation line-ups performance via statistical markov chain modelling								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				17	1			178	188	17479541211009083	10.1177/17479541211009083			FEB 2022	2022	Coaches in basketball often need to know how specific rotation line-ups perform in either offense or defense and choose the most efficient formation, according to their specific needs. In this research, a sample of 1131 ball possession phases of Greek Basket League was utilized, in order to estimate the offensive and defensive performance of each formation. Offensive and defensive ratings for each formation were calculated as a function of points scored or received, respectively, over possessions, where possessions were estimated using a multiple regression model. Furthermore, a Markov chain model was implemented to estimate the probabilities of the associated formation's performance in the long run. The model could allow us to distinguish between overperforming and underperforming formations and revealed the probabilities over the evolution of the game, for each formation to be in a specific rating category. The results indicated that the most dominant formation, in terms of offense, is Point Guard-Point Guard-Small Forward-Power Forward-Center, while defensively schema Point Guard-Shooting Guard-Small Forward-Center-Center had the highest rating. Such results provide information, which could operate as a supplementary tool for the coach's decisions, related to which rotation line-up patterns are mostly suitable during a basketball game.		[Kolias, Pavlos; Papadopoulou, Alexandra; Kostakidis, Theodoros] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Math, Sect Stat & Operat Res, Thessaloniki 54124, Greece; [Stavropoulos, Nikolaos] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Lab Evaluat Human Biol Performance, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Kolias, Pavlos] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Math, Sect Stat & Operat Res, Thessaloniki 54124, Greece								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000641915800001	35	Article; Article		
J	Tammany, Justin E.; O'Connell, Dennis G.; Latham, Sarah E.; Rogers, Jordan A.; Sugar, Taylor S.								The effect of grunting on overhead throwing velocity in collegiate baseball pitchers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1111	1116	17479541211005359	10.1177/17479541211005359			OCT 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of grunting on overhead throwing velocity in collegiate baseball pitchers. A repeated-measures experimental design was used. Twenty-four division III collegiate baseball pitchers with a mean age of 20.3 +/- 1.6 years voluntarily participated in the study. Subjects were shown a video demonstration of a pitcher grunting during the acceleration phase of pitching and asked to replicate the technique during three practice throws. Corrective verbal feedback from researchers was given regarding the timing of the grunt during practice throws. Subjects then performed randomized sets (3 grunting and 3 non-grunting trials) of overhead throws from a standard pitching mount in the stretch position with maximum effort. Throwing velocities were measured with a calibrated radar gun. Paired-samples t-tests were used to compare average throwing velocities between the grunting and non-grunting trials at the 0.05 alpha level. Mean overhead throwing velocity was significantly higher during the grunting trials than the non-grunting trials. Age, height, weight, and handedness had no impact on the effect of grunting on overhead throwing velocity. Grunting offers a simple, immediate means of enhancing overhead throwing velocity in the collegiate baseball pitching population. Additional research is needed to determine the effects in populations of greater or lesser skill.		[Tammany, Justin E.; O'Connell, Dennis G.; Latham, Sarah E.; Rogers, Jordan A.; Sugar, Taylor S.] Hardin Simmons Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Appl Physiol Lab, Abilene, TX 79601 USA; [Tammany, Justin E.] 2200 Hickory St,Box 16065, Abilene, TX 79698 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000638968600001	43	Article; Article		
J	Kreulen, R. Timothy; Raad, Micheal; Musharbash, Farah N.; Nayar, Suresh K.; Best, Matthew J.; Puvanesarajah, Varun; Marrache, Majd; Srikumaran, Uma; Wilckens, John H.								Factors associated with RVU generation in common sports medicine procedures								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	3			233	238		10.1080/00913847.2021.1907258			MAY 4 2022	2022	Introduction: Relative value units (RVUs) are integral to the U.S. physician compensation system used by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. The use of 'work RVUs' (herein, wRVUs) is intended to reimburse physicians according to the amount of expertise and effort needed to safely and effectively perform a procedure. Our purpose was to determine: 1) the number of wRVUs/hour generated by common sports medicine surgical procedures; and 2) how patient characteristics, surgical approach, and practice setting are associated with the number of wRVUs/hour. This analysis was performed to infer whether wRVUs are assigned appropriately according to the factors on which they are purported to be based. Methods: We queried the American College of Surgeons' National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP) database for common sports medicine surgical procedures performed in 2018. Data from 19,877 patients (8,258 women) with a mean age of 48 years (range, 18-90) who underwent a surgical sports medicine procedure were analyzed. Work RVUs and operative time were used to calculate work RVUs/hour for each surgical procedure. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to assess correlations between patient characteristics and wRVUs/hour. Results: Knee chondroplasty generated the most mean (+/- standard deviation) wRVUs/hour at 22 +/- 0.5, whereas 'open tenodesis of biceps tendon, long head' generated the least at 9.6 +/- 0.25 wRVUs/hour. Factors associated with a greater mean number of wRVUs/hour were younger patient age, female sex, arthroscopic approach, and outpatient setting. Arthroscopic procedures also generated more wRVUs/hour than the same procedures performed through an open approach. wRVUs were not correlated with case complexity or surgical time. Conclusion: wRVUs/hour in surgical sports medicine procedures vary widely depending on the procedure type, patient characteristics, surgical approach, and practice setting.		[Kreulen, R. Timothy; Raad, Micheal; Musharbash, Farah N.; Nayar, Suresh K.; Best, Matthew J.; Puvanesarajah, Varun; Marrache, Majd; Srikumaran, Uma; Wilckens, John H.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Baltimore, MD USA; [Wilckens, John H.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 601 North Caroline St, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000637253800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Papic, Christopher; Andersen, Jordan; Naemi, Roozbeh; Hodierne, Ryan; Sanders, Ross H.								Augmented feedback can change body shape to improve glide efficiency in swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	7			898	917		10.1080/14763141.2021.1900355			JUL 2 2024	2024	Curvatures of the body can disrupt fluid flow and affect hydrodynamic resistance. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of a feedback intervention on glide performance and torso morphology. Eleven male and female national swimmers performed glides before and after augmented feedback. Feedback consisted of self-modelling visual feedback and verbal cuing, to manipulate body curvatures that affect hydrodynamic resistance. Two-dimensional landmark position data (knee, hip and shoulder) were used to enable computation of glide factor and glide coefficient as indicators of glide efficiency; posture (trunk incline and hip angle); and performance (horizontal velocity). Underwater images of the swimmers were manually traced to derive transverse and sagittal diameters, cross-sectional areas, and continuous form outlines (anterior and posterior) of the torso. Maximum rate of change in cross-sectional area and form gradient progressing caudally, were calculated for torso segments: shoulder-chest, chest-waist, waist-hip. Mean velocity, glide factor and glide coefficient values significantly (p< 0.001) improved due to the intervention, with large effect size (d) changes 0.880 (p= 0.015), 2.297 and 1.605, respectively. Significant changes to form gradients were related to reductions in lumbar lordosis and chest convexity. The study provides practical cuing phrases for coaches and swimmers to improve glide efficiency and performance.		[Papic, Christopher; Andersen, Jordan; Sanders, Ross H.] Univ Sydney, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Fac Med & Hlth, Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Naemi, Roozbeh] Staffordshire Univ, Sch Life Sci & Educ, Ctr Biomech & Rehabil Technol, Stoke On Trent, Staffs, England; [Hodierne, Ryan] New South Wales Inst Sport, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Papic, Christopher] Univ Sydney, Sydney Sch Hlth Sci, Fac Med & Hlth, Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000637253100001	43	Article; Article		
J	Slowik, Jonathan S.; Diffendaffer, Alek Z.; Crotin, Ryan L.; Stewart, Megan S.; Hart, Karen; Fleisig, Glenn S.								Biomechanical effects of foot placement during pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	7			860	869		10.1080/14763141.2021.1898668			JUL 2 2024	2024	Baseball coaches often focus on the landing position of a pitcher's front foot as a key aspect of mechanics. Furthermore, controversy persists regarding positioning the rear foot on the first base or third base end of the rubber. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of rear and front foot placement on pitching biomechanics. Our hypotheses were that there would be significant kinematic and kinetic differences associated with foot placement. This was a retrospective review including 144 healthy right-handed adult baseball pitchers divided into groups based on their rear and front foot placements: first base open (1B-Open), first base closed (1B-Closed), third base open (3B-Open), and third base closed (3B-Closed). Two-way ANOVAs detected no statistically significant main effects for kinetic variables but several for kinematic variables. Open pitchers had less shoulder abduction at the time of ball release and greater maximum shoulder internal rotation velocity in comparison with closed pitchers. They also had less forearm pronation at the time of ball release and greater maximum elbow extension velocity. Additional statistically significant results were found; however, low effect sizes may lessen the clinical significance of many of the results.		[Slowik, Jonathan S.; Diffendaffer, Alek Z.; Stewart, Megan S.; Hart, Karen; Fleisig, Glenn S.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA; [Crotin, Ryan L.] Los Angeles Angels, Anaheim, CA USA; [Crotin, Ryan L.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Slowik, Jonathan S.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000637257100001	23	Article; Article		
J	Norcross, Marc F.; Almog, Roy; Huang, Yu-Lun; Chang, Eunwook; Hannigan, Kimberly S.; Johnson, Samuel T.								Greater explosive quadriceps strength is associated with greater knee flexion at initial contact during landing in females								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	8			1028	1042		10.1080/14763141.2021.1908413			AUG 2 2024	2024	This study investigated the influences of explosive quadriceps strength and landing task on sagittal plane knee biomechanics. Forty female participants performed isometric knee extensions on a dynamometer and had lower extremity biomechanics assessed during double-leg jump-landings (DLJL) and single-leg jump-cuts (SLJC). Explosive quadriceps strength was quantified by calculating rate of torque development (RTD) between torque onset and 100 ms after onset on a dynamometer. Participants were stratified into high and low RTD groups. Landing biomechanics were compared using 2 (Group) x 2 (Task) mixed-model ANOVAs. The relationships between quadriceps RTD and landing biomechanics were also assessed using simple, bivariate correlations. Across RTD groups, greater knee flexion at initial contact (KFIC), peak vertical ground reaction force, peak anterior tibial shear force, and peak internal knee extension moment, and lesser peak knee flexion was observed during SLJC compared to DLJL. The high RTD group exhibited significantly greater KFIC than the low RTD group across landing tasks. Greater quadriceps RTD was significantly associated with greater KFIC during SLJC, but not during DLJL. As landing with lesser KFIC is a risk factor for ACL injury, greater explosive quadriceps strength capacity might be beneficial for facilitating the use of safer landing mechanics during athletic tasks.		[Norcross, Marc F.; Hannigan, Kimberly S.; Johnson, Samuel T.] Oregon State Univ, Coll Publ Hlth & Human Sci, Sch Biol & Populat Hlth Sci, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Almog, Roy] Univ Calif Irvine, Sch Med, Irvine, CA 92717 USA; [Huang, Yu-Lun] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Kinesiol, Eau Claire, WI 54701 USA; [Chang, Eunwook] Inha Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Incheon, South Korea; [Norcross, Marc F.] Oregon State Univ, Coll Publ Hlth & Human Sci, Sch Biol & Populat Hlth Sci, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000637236200001	37	Article; Article		
J	Rowley, Lee James; Churchill, Sarah M.; Dunn, Marcus; Wheat, Jon								Effect of hurdling step strategy on the kinematics of the block start								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	7			846	859		10.1080/14763141.2021.1896028			JUL 2 2024	2024	Athletes use either a seven-step or eight-step strategy to reach the first hurdle in the 110 m hurdle event. This study investigated the effect of step strategy on the start position, the block exit and the first four approach steps. Two-dimensional video data were collected in the sagittal plane from 12 male sprinters, grouped as seven-step (n = 6) or eight-step (n = 6) strategists. Mean block spacing was 0.08 m further apart, block contact time 0.06s longer, first step 0.25 m longer and first ground contact 0.03s longer for seven-step athletes compared with eight-step athletes. There was also a greater vertical displacement of the centre of mass (CoM) (0.04 m) for the seven-step athletes compared with the eight-step athletes. Additionally, the front hip mean angular acceleration was 197 degrees/s(2) slower for the seven-step athletes than the eight-step athletes. There was limited difference between groups for mean horizontal velocity at the moment of block exit (0.14 m/s). These technical alterations provide an important first insight into start kinematics. The findings of this study identify the position in the starting blocks, and the key parameters which pertain to the initial phases for a successful seven-step approach strategy to be employed.		[Rowley, Lee James; Dunn, Marcus] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sports Engn Res, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Churchill, Sarah M.; Wheat, Jon] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Rowley, Lee James] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sports Engn Res, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000637254200001	34	Article; Article		
J	Burson, Sheri L.; Mulhearn, Shannon C.; Castelli, Darla M.; van der Mars, Hans								Essential Components of Physical Education: Policy and Environment								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	2			209	221		10.1080/02701367.2021.1884178			APR 3 2021	2021	Purpose: Physical education policies provide guidance and accountability to develop quality programs that increase physical literacy. The purpose of this study was to conduct a systematic review of physical education policy research to explore its effects on the school environment and programming as an essential component of physical education. Methods: Using the PRISMA guidelines of identify, screen, determine eligibility, and include, studies were extracted from four different databases, using search terms related to the essential physical education component of policy and environment. Of the 225 publications identified, 42 studies met the inclusion criteria for this investigation. Each paper was coded, and emergent themes were identified. Results: The policy research was predominantly descriptive and focused on: (a) minutes in physical education (83%), (b) moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA; 31%), (c) certified/qualified teachers (24%), (d) exemptions (17%), and (e) student-teacher ratio (12%). Emergent themes of adherence, policy strength, and implementation accountability were identified as influential physical education policy aspects. Conclusions: Policy research over the last 20 years was focused on the regulatory mandate of time. Policy research did not directly address disciplinary process variables of learning activities or outcomes of physical education. The effects of policy exemptions and class size were underrepresented. Themes may explain the lack of reporting student performance as the primary outcome. Further research is needed to examine the downstream effects of physical education policy and determine whether well-written policies increase the number of physically literate individuals.		[Burson, Sheri L.; Castelli, Darla M.] Univ Texas Austin, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Mulhearn, Shannon C.] Univ Nebraska, Kearney, NE USA; [van der Mars, Hans] Arizonia State Univ, Tempe, AZ USA; [Castelli, Darla M.] Univ Texas Austin, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Educ, 2109 San Jacinto Blvd,Mail Code D3700, Austin, TX 78712 USA								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000652030300003	69	Article; Article		
J	Outram, Tom; Wheat, Jon								Test-retest reliability of segment kinetic energy measures in the golf swing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	3			344	359		10.1080/14763141.2018.1553244			APR 3 2021	2021	Analyses of segment kinetic energy (KE) can provide the most appropriate means of exploring sequential movements. As the reliability associated with its measurement has not been reported, the aim of this study was to examine the test-retest reliability of segment KE measures in the golf swing. On two occasions, seven male golfers hit five shots with three different clubs. Body segment inertia parameters were estimated for 17 rigid bodies and 3D kinematic data were collected during each swing. The magnitude and timing of peak total, linear and angular kinetic energies were then calculated for each rigid body and for four segment groups. Regardless of club type, KE was measured with high reliability for almost all rigid bodies and segment groups. However, significantly larger magnitudes of peak total (p = 0.039) and linear (p = 0.021) lower body KE were reported in test 2 than in test 1. The high reliability reported in this study provides support for the use of analyses of segment kinetic energy. However, practitioners should pay careful attention to the identification of anatomical landmarks which define the thigh, pelvis and thorax as this was the main cause of variability in repeated measures of segment kinetic energy.		[Outram, Tom] Univ Derby, Sch Human Sci, Dept Sport Outdoor & Exercise Sci, Derby, England; [Wheat, Jon] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, Ctr Sports Engn Res, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Outram, Tom] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000623646700006	45	Article; Article		
J	Urdampilleta, Aritz; Leon-Guereno, Patxi; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio; Roche, Enrique; Mielgo-Ayuso, Juan								Inclusion of resistance routines in a hypoxia training program does not interfere with prevention of acute mountain sickness								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			151	157		10.1080/00913847.2020.1786344			APR 3 2021	2021	Objectives Acclimatization strategies have been shown to be the best solutions to avoid acute mountain sickness. In this context, we have designed a protocol performed in hypoxia that includes resistance routines in combination with classical endurance training exercises with mountain trekking at mid altitude. Methods Thirty-two volunteers preparing different mountain expeditions participated in the study distributed into two groups. One group trained at 2000 m, while another group trained at 4500-5800 m of simulated altitude in a hypoxic chamber. Acute mountain sickness was monitored by answering the Lake Louise Scale questionnaire during 2 sleeping sessions at 4800 m of simulated altitude at the beginning and at the end of the study. At the same time, oxygen saturation was determined in both groups to monitor physiologic adaptation. Data were also collected from the base camps in each expedition before ascension. Results Acute mountain sickness incidence in the hypoxic group decreased from 100% at the beginning to 12% of individuals at the end of the training period, and it was 25% at the base camps of expeditions. On the other hand, the control group passed from 100% to 88% of individuals at the end of the intervention and 70% at the base camps. At the same time, acute mountain sickness severity was mild in the experimental group compared to moderate-severe in the control group. These data were supported by the oxygen saturation values, indicating adequate adaptation changes for altitude in the hypoxic group. Conclusion The inclusion of resistance workouts in combination with endurance exercises, all performed in hypoxic conditions, does not interfere with an optimal adaptation to altitude and to prevent acute mountain sickness.		[Urdampilleta, Aritz] ElikaEsport, Nutr Innovat & Sport, Barcelona, Spain; [Leon-Guereno, Patxi] Univ Deusto, Dept Psychol, Bilbao, Spain; [Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Vitoria, Spain; [Roche, Enrique] Univ Miguel Hernandez Elche, Inst Bioengn, Dept Appl Biol Nutr, Alicante Inst Hlth & Biomed Res ISABIAL, Alicante, Spain; [Roche, Enrique] Inst Salud Carlos III, CIBERobn Fisiopatol Obesidad & Nutr CB12 03 30038, Madrid, Spain; [Mielgo-Ayuso, Juan] Univ Valladolid, Fac Phys Therapy, Dept Biochem Mol Biol & Physiol, Soria, Spain; [Roche, Enrique] Univ Miguel Hernandez, Inst Bioengn, Elche, Spain								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000639900300005	32	Article; Article		
J	Tsujimoto, Norio; Nunome, Hiroyuki; Mizuno, Takamasa; Inoue, Koichiro; Matsui, Kazuhiro; Matsugi, Ryo; Ikegami, Yasuo								Mechanical factors affecting the foot eversion moment during the stance phase of running in non-rearfoot strikers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	3			290	303		10.1080/14763141.2018.1548639			APR 3 2021	2021	This study aimed to identify the primary factors that induce rearfoot external eversion moments due to ground reaction force (GRF) in non-rearfoot strikers. The data were compared with those of rearfoot strikers. Totally, 11 healthy males who were habitually non-rearfoot strikers ran barefoot. Rearfoot external eversion/inversion moments due to GRF (Mtot) were decomposed into two components based on mediolateral (Mxy) and vertical (Mz) GRFs. The height of the ankle joint centre and the mediolateral distance from the centre of pressure (COP) to the ankle joint centre (a_cop) were calculated as the lever arms to the Mxy and Mz components. Just after foot contact, non-rearfoot strikers demonstrated a significantly larger Mz, which was strongly dependent on a_cop and produced most of the Mtot, whereas Mxy dominated Mtot in rearfoot strikers. During the consecutive loading phase, non-rearfoot strikers demonstrated a significantly larger Mxy, which was strongly dependent on the mediolateral GRF and substantially contributed to Mtot, unlike the rearfoot strikers, whose Mtot was almost dominated by Mz during the loading phase. It was found that since the factor of generating the moment differs depending on the foot contact pattern, the strategies for suppressing the moment may be different for each foot contact pattern.		[Tsujimoto, Norio] Fukui Univ Technol, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukui, Japan; [Nunome, Hiroyuki] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Mizuno, Takamasa] Nagoya Univ, Res Ctr Hlth Phys Fitness & Sports, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Inoue, Koichiro] Yamagata Univ, Fac Educ Art & Sci, Yamagata, Japan; [Matsui, Kazuhiro] Fukui Coll, Natl Inst Technol, Sabae, Japan; [Matsugi, Ryo] Hokuriku Inst Wellness & Sports Sci, Komatsu, Japan; [Ikegami, Yasuo] Aichi Shukutoku Univ, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Nagakute, Aichi, Japan; [Tsujimoto, Norio] Fukui Univ Technol, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukui, Japan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000623646700002	20	Article; Article		
J	Provot, Thomas; Chiementin, Xavier; Bolaers, Fabrice; Munera, Marcela								A time to exhaustion model during prolonged running based on wearable accelerometers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	3			330	343		10.1080/14763141.2018.1549682			APR 3 2021	2021	Defining relationships between running mechanisms and fatigue can be a major asset for optimising training. This article proposes a biomechanical model of time to exhaustion according to indicators derived from accelerometry data collected from the body. Ten volunteers were recruited for this study. The participants were equipped with 3 accelerometers: on the right foot, at the tibia and at the L4-L5 lumbar spine. A running test was performed on a treadmill at 13.5 km/h until exhaustion. Thirty-one variables were deployed during the test. Multiple linear regressions were calculated to explain the time to exhaustion from the indicators calculated on the lumbar, tibia and foot individually and simultaneously. Time to exhaustion was predicted for simultaneous measurement points with r(2) = 0.792 and 21 indicators; for the lumbar with r(2) = 0.568 and 11 indicators; for the tibia with r(2) = 558 and 11 indicators; and for the foot with r(2) = 0.626 and 12 indicators. This study allows the accurate modelling of the time to exhaustion during a running-based test using indicators from accelerometer measurements. The individual models highlight that the location of the measurement point is important and that each location provides different information. Future studies should focus on homogeneous populations to improve predictions and errors.		[Provot, Thomas] EPF, Grad Sch Engn, Dept Mech, Sceaux, France; [Chiementin, Xavier; Bolaers, Fabrice] Univ Reims Champagne Ardennes, Fac Exact & Nat Sci, Res Inst Engn Sci, Reims, France; [Munera, Marcela] Colombian Sch Engn Julio Garavito, Dept Biomed Engn, Bogota, Colombia; [Provot, Thomas] EPF, Grad Sch Engn, Dept Mech, Sceaux, France								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000623646700005	41	Article; Article		
J	Bakatchina, Sadate; Weissland, Thierry; Astier, Marjolaine; Pradon, Didier; Faupin, Arnaud								Performance, asymmetry and biomechanical parameters in wheelchair rugby players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	7			884	897		10.1080/14763141.2021.1898670			JUL 2 2024	2024	The practice of the wheelchair rugby is becoming more and more worldwide. However, few biomechanical studies have focused on this sport. The aim of this study was to compare kinematic parameters of wheelchair rugby players, classified as defensive players (LP-D) versus offensive players (HP-O). Twenty-nine wheelchair rugby players (17 LP-D and 12 HP-O) performed a 20-m sprint test. The peak velocities, temporal parameters (propulsion phase time, deceleration phase time, cycle time and cycle frequencies) and asymmetries (the difference in peak velocities between the right and the left wheels) were measured at the acceleration and constant peak velocity phases of the sprint by an inertial measurement unit which was placed on each rear wheel. At the acceleration and constant peak velocity phases, peak velocities and cycle frequencies were higher in HP-O players than LP-D players. The deceleration phase times and the cycle times were higher in LP-D players than HP-O players. However, no significant difference in asymmetry was found between LP-D players and HP-O players. The HP-O players showed superior performance than the LP-D players, but they could be more exposed at risk of injury at their upper limbs than LP-D players.		[Bakatchina, Sadate; Faupin, Arnaud] Univ Toulon & Var, IAPS, EA 6312, La Garde, France; [Weissland, Thierry] Univ Bordeaux, IMS Lab, UMR 5218, PMH DySCo, Pessac, France; [Astier, Marjolaine] Univ Toulon & Var, LAMHESS, EA 6312, La Garde, France; [Pradon, Didier] Pole Parasport CHU Raymond Poincare, AP HP, Endicap, UMR 1179,ISPC Synergies, Hauts Seine 92, Garches, France; [Bakatchina, Sadate] Univ Toulon & Var, IAPS, EA 6312, La Garde, France								21							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000635821000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Girard, Olivier; Li, Siu Nam; Hobbins, Liam; Ryu, Joong Hyun; Peeling, Peter								Gait asymmetries during perceptually-regulated interval running in hypoxia and normoxia								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	7			918	934		10.1080/14763141.2021.1900356			JUL 2 2024	2024	This study aimed to characterise bilateral asymmetry in running mechanics during perceptually regulated, high-intensity intermittent running in hypoxia and normoxia and examines whether inter-limb differences in running mechanics are modified between and within intervals. Nineteen trained runners completed 4 x 4-min treadmill running bouts (3-min passive recoveries) at a perceived rating exertion of 16 on the 6-20 Borg scale in either hypoxic (FiO(2) = 0.15) or normoxic (FiO(2) = 0.21) conditions. Ground reaction force recordings at constant velocity (group average: 14.8 +/- 1.9 km/h) allowed measurement of running kinetics/kinematics and calculation of spring-mass model characteristics at the beginning and the end of each 4-min interval. Lower limb asymmetry was assessed from the 'symmetry angle' (SA) score. There were no between intervals (P > 0.087), within intervals (P > 0.076) or FiO(2) (P > 0.128) differences in SA scores for any of the 16 biomechanical variables. Mean SA scores were lower than 1.5% for spatio-temporal variables, similar to 1.5-3% for braking and push-off phase durations, peak forces and impulses and similar to 4-6% for mean loading rate and vertical stiffness. With preserved lower limb asymmetries both between and within intervals and with additional hypoxia, trained runners completing perceptually regulated interval treadmill runs may anticipate a maintained performance without heightened injury risk.		[Girard, Olivier; Li, Siu Nam; Peeling, Peter] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Girard, Olivier] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Res & Sci Support Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Hobbins, Liam] London South Bank Univ, Sch Appl Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Ctr, London, England; [Ryu, Joong Hyun] Aspire Acad, Sports Sci Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Peeling, Peter] Western Australian Inst Sport, Mt Claremont, Australia; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Girard, Olivier] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Res & Sci Support Dept, Doha, Qatar								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000635813000001	42	Article; Article		
J	McGuire, Megan B.; Lockie, Robert G.								Motor Skill, Movement Competency, and Physical Fitness Assessments for Reserve Officers' Training Corps Cadets								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	2			75	83		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000575			APR 2021	2021	Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) is used at high schools and universities to prepare individuals for enlistment and commission in the U.S. military. Population demographic changes have resulted in more adolescents and young adults being less active, which influences motor skill, movement, and fitness development. Because ROTC programs recruit from the general population, this could influence the training programmed by ROTC staff or strength coaches. This article presents assessment options for motor skills, movement competency, and physical fitness that could be used for ROTC cadets. Should these tests be adopted, staff can use the results to drive their training.		[McGuire, Megan B.; Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656630200007	86	Article; Article		
J	Micalos, Peter S.; Pak, Sok Cheon; Jesulola, Emmanuel; Cannon, Jack; Hale, Mathew; Koo, Byung-Soo								Does Acupuncture Enhance Muscle Strength and Performance?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	2			116	120					APR 2021	2021	Acupuncture has gained attention in sports research for enhancing performance and recovery. Although there is substantial recognition for the therapeutic application of acupuncture in a variety of medical conditions, there are limited controlled research trials for acupuncture as a procedure to benefit muscle performance and recovery. Most of the research investigating the mechanism for acupuncture has focused on pain relief. However, there are several physiological effects associated with acupuncture needling, including the therapeutic potential of placebo. Although acupuncture has been shown to have few adverse effects, there is evidence showing a capacity to adversely influence muscle performance.		[Micalos, Peter S.; Pak, Sok Cheon] Charles Sturt Univ, Sch Biomed Sci, Bathurst, NSW, Australia; [Jesulola, Emmanuel] NSW Hlth, Belmont Hosp, St Leonards, NSW, Australia; [Cannon, Jack] Charles Sturt Univ, Sch Exercise Sci Sport & Hlth, Bathurst, NSW, Australia; [Hale, Mathew] Macquarie Nat Therapies, Bathurst, NSW, Australia; [Koo, Byung-Soo] Dongguk Univ, Dept Neuropsychiat, Seoul, South Korea; [Koo, Byung-Soo] Dongguk Univ, Dept Neuropsychiat, Seoul, South Korea								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656630200011	47	Article; Article		
J	Pritchard, James J.								Fitness Testing Parameters for Alpine Ski Racing								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	2			1	6		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000587			APR 2021	2021	Alpine ski racing requires high levels of isometric, eccentric, and concentric muscle actions through wide ranges of hip, knee, and ankle mobility. The course duration of similar to 40 seconds for slalom racing to upward of 2.5 minutes for downhill racing necessitates high levels of anaerobic endurance, aerobic power, and force production to be successful. In addition, due to the highly technical skill aspect of ski racing, neuromuscular coordination is of utmost importance. This review identifies the most effective performance testing methods for alpine ski racing, as well as highlighting their relevance to the physiological parameters of the sport.		[Pritchard, James J.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Pritchard, James J.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656630200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Coffey, Craig; Carey, Marie; Kinsella, Sharon; Byrne, Paul J.; Sheehan, Damien; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Exercise Programming for Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder: Recommendations for Strength and Conditioning Specialists								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	2			64	74		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000599			APR 2021	2021	The purpose of this article is to introduce strength and conditioning specialists to autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and to identify the many benefits of delivering exercise programs to children with ASD. In addition, the article aims to inform strength and conditioning specialists on how to minimize some of the inherent challenges associated with the delivery of such programs by highlighting critical issues for practitioners to consider when designing and implementing exercise programs for children with ASD.		[Coffey, Craig; Carey, Marie; Kinsella, Sharon; Byrne, Paul J.; Sheehan, Damien] Inst Technol Carlow, Dept Sci & Hlth, Carlow, Ireland; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Coffey, Craig] Inst Technol Carlow, Dept Sci & Hlth, Carlow, Ireland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656630200006	62	Article; Article		
J	Gearity, Brian T.; Szedlak, Christoph; Kuklick, Clayton R.; Mills, Joseph; Feit, Mary Kate; Callary, Bettina; Feit, Adam; Bergan, Maura								Enriching Selves in Strength and Conditioning Society: A Multilevel Proposal to Enhance Strength and Conditioning Psychosocial Practice as Part of the Council on Accreditation of Strength and Conditioning Education								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	2			92	103		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000592			APR 2021	2021	This review article advances the longstanding need to address psychosocial issues within strength and conditioning (S&C) that have renewed significance with the National Strength and Conditioning Association's entry into accreditation. First, a brief history is presented on the omission of psychosocial issues within S&C and the education of S&C practitioners. Second, the article provides an overview of learning theory and instructional strategies on how to develop essential psychosocial competencies of S&C practitioners. Third, multilevel recommendations are offered to address established calls to improve the education of S&C practitioners, ongoing accreditation efforts, and continued structural changes throughout the growing, global profession of S&C coaching.		[Gearity, Brian T.; Kuklick, Clayton R.; Mills, Joseph] Univ Denver, Grad Sch Profess Psychol, Denver, CO 80208 USA; [Szedlak, Christoph] Univ Southampton, Dept Sport & Wellbeing, Student Serv Sports Training & Performance Ctr, Southampton, Hants, England; [Feit, Mary Kate; Feit, Adam; Bergan, Maura] Springfield Coll, Sch Phys Educ Performance & Sport Leadership, Springfield, MA USA; [Callary, Bettina] Cape Breton Univ, Sydney, NS, Canada; [Feit, Adam] Precis Nutr Inc, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Gearity, Brian T.] Univ Denver, Grad Sch Profess Psychol, Denver, CO 80208 USA								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656630200009	58	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, Abigail; Weeks, Macy; Loewen, Brandon; Byrd, Megan; Ryan, Greg A.								Training Considerations and Recommendations for Tactical Professionals With Posttraumatic Stress Disorder								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	2			84	91		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000591			APR 2021	2021	Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a mental health condition that may develop in individuals after a traumatic event. Tactical professionals (e.g., military, police, and firefighters) are at an elevated risk for exposure to traumatic events and the onset of PTSD. Exercise and mindfulness training techniques have been shown to be beneficial for both the physical and mental health of the individual with PTSD. Knowing that tactical professionals have an increased risk of exposure to trauma and PTSD symptoms compared to general population, practitioners should understand how to properly train these individuals. Therefore, the purpose of this article is to provide important considerations and training recommendations for tactical professionals suffering from PTSD.		[Johnson, Abigail; Weeks, Macy; Loewen, Brandon; Byrd, Megan; Ryan, Greg A.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA; [Ryan, Greg A.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656630200008	51	Article; Article		
J	Weakley, Jonathon; Mann, Bryan; Banyard, Harry; McLaren, Harry Shaun; Scott, Tannath; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								Velocity-Based Training: From Theory to Application								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	2			31	49		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000560			APR 2021	2021	Velocity-based training (VBT) is a contemporary method of resistance training that enables accurate and objective prescription of resistance training intensities and volumes. This review provides an applied framework for the theory and application of VBT. Specifically, this review gives detail on how to: use velocity to provide objective feedback, estimate strength, develop load-velocity profiles for accurate load prescription, and how to use statistics to monitor velocity. Furthermore, a discussion on the use of velocity loss thresholds, different methods of VBT prescription, and how VBT can be implemented within traditional programming models and microcycles is provided.		[Weakley, Jonathon] Australian Campus Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Weakley, Jonathon; McLaren, Harry Shaun; Scott, Tannath] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Mann, Bryan] Univ Miami, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Sci, Miami, FL USA; [Banyard, Harry] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Hlth & Med Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [McLaren, Harry Shaun] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Scott, Tannath] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Weakley, Jonathon] Australian Campus Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Weakley, Jonathon] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								359							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656630200004	97	Article; Article		
J	Molodchik, Mariia; Paklina, Sofiia; Parshakov, Petr								Peer Effects on Individual Performance in a Team Sport								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	5			571	586	15270025211000389	10.1177/15270025211000389			JUN 2021	2021	The paper investigates the variety of peer effects on individual performance in a team sport. The individual performance of more than 5,000 soccer players, from 234 teams, between 2010 and 2015, is measured with the help of the FIFA video game simulator developed by EA Sports. The study reveals positive peer effects on individual performance although the marginal benefit decreases. Additionally, team cohesion contributes to an improvement of players' ranking.		[Molodchik, Mariia; Paklina, Sofiia; Parshakov, Petr] Natl Res Univ Higher Sch Econ, Perm, Russia; [Parshakov, Petr] Natl Res Univ Higher Sch Econ, Perm, Russia								15							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000634009700001	33	Article; Article		
J	Wasche, Hagen; Beecroft, Richard; Trenks, Helena; Seebacher, Andreas; Parodi, Oliver								Transdisciplinary sport and physical activity development in urban real-world labs								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	4			816	833		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2020-0081			OCT 12 2021	2021	Purpose The aim of this paper is to present a research approach that can contribute to a sustainable development of urban spaces for sports and physical activity, comprising theoretical reflections and directions for applied research. Design/methodology/approach This research builds on an urban real-world lab in a city district. It is based on principles of transdisciplinary research and intense processes of participation. Findings Five projects with regard to sport and physical activity development were implemented. The projects resulted in exchange and learning of citizens and other stakeholders as well as transformations of the social and built environment. Research limitations/implications Instead of top-down research and planning this approach enables bottom-up processes in which affected citizens and stakeholders can contribute to sport and physical activity development. Practical implications The approach can help to integrate sport and physical activity development and transformative processes of sustainable development in urban areas. Social implications Through participation and involvement, citizens can be empowered and social capital can be generated. Originality/value Urban real-world labs are a new approach for sport and physical activity development. This approach opens up the possibility to include sport and physical activity development in processes of city development. Hence, urban real-world labs are able to address an integrated urban and sport development process and can be used for city marketing purposes.		[Wasche, Hagen] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Karlsruhe, Germany; [Beecroft, Richard; Trenks, Helena; Seebacher, Andreas; Parodi, Oliver] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Technol Assessment & Syst Anal, Karlsruhe, Germany; [Wasche, Hagen] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Inst Sports & Sports Sci, Karlsruhe, Germany								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000632617100001	63	Article; Article		
J	Feser, Erin H.; Korfist, Christian; Lindley, Kyle; Bezodis, Neil E.; Clark, Kenneth; Cronin, John								The effects of lower-limb wearable resistance on sprint performance in high school American football athletes: A nine-week training study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1187	1195	17479541211003403	10.1177/17479541211003403			OCT 2021	2021	Time constraints often result in the challenge to fit desired programming into training time allotments. Wearable resistance (WR) may be an option to optimise the training content in function of constrained training time. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of a lower-limb WR sprint running training intervention on athlete speed capabilities following a nine-week off-season, low volume training period within a sample of American football high school athletes. Nineteen athletes completed pre- and post-intervention testing of two maximal effort 30 m sprints. Horizontal force-velocity mechanical profiling variables, sprint times, and maximal velocity were calculated from sprint running velocity data collected by a radar device. The athletes completed seventeen dedicated sprint training sessions during the off-season. The intervention (WR) group completed the sessions with 1% body mass load attached to the shanks (i.e. 0.50% body mass load on each limb). The control group completed the same training sessions unloaded. Post-intervention, no statistically significant between group differences were observed (p > 0.05). However, athletes in both groups experienced increases in velocity measures following the sprint training. The greater adjusted mean theoretical maximal velocity scores (p > 0.05; ES = 0.30) found for the WR group compared to the control group at post-intervention may suggest that WR amplifies the nuances of the training protocol itself. Coaches can consider using lower-limb WR training to increase in-session workloads during periods of low volume training but more research is needed to better understand to what extent WR training might provide an added value to optimise both the training content and planning, as well as the athlete's training response in order to improve sprint running performance.		[Feser, Erin H.; Korfist, Christian; Cronin, John] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Feser, Erin H.] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth Solut, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Lindley, Kyle] Arizona State Univ, Sch Biol & Hlth Syst Engn, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Bezodis, Neil E.] Swansea Univ, A STEM Res Ctr, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Clark, Kenneth] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA USA; [Feser, Erin H.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, AUT Millennium, Private Bag 92006, Auckland 1142, New Zealand								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000634020800001	29	Article; Article		
J	Sullivan, Mark O.; Woods, Carl T.; Vaughan, James; Davids, Keith								Towards a contemporary player learning in development framework for sports practitioners								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1214	1222	17479541211002335	10.1177/17479541211002335			OCT 2021	2021	As it is appreciated that learning is a non-linear process - implying that coaching methodologies in sport should be accommodative - it is reasonable to suggest that player development pathways should also account for this non-linearity. A constraints-led approach (CLA), predicated on the theory of ecological dynamics, has been suggested as a viable framework for capturing the non-linearity of learning, development and performance in sport. The CLA articulates how skills emerge through the interaction of different constraints (task-environment-performer). However, despite its well-established theoretical roots, there are challenges to implementing it in practice. Accordingly, to help practitioners navigate such challenges, this paper proposes a user-friendly framework that demonstrates the benefits of a CLA. Specifically, to conceptualize the non-linear and individualized nature of learning, and how it can inform player development, we apply Adolph's notion of learning IN development to explain the fundamental ideas of a CLA. We then exemplify a learning IN development framework, based on a CLA, brought to life in a high-level youth football organization. We contend that this framework can provide a novel approach for presenting the key ideas of a CLA and its powerful pedagogic concepts to practitioners at all levels, informing coach education programs, player development frameworks and learning environment designs in sport.		[Sullivan, Mark O.; Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Sullivan, Mark O.; Vaughan, James] AIK Football, Res & Dev Dept, Stockholm, Sweden; [Woods, Carl T.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Sullivan, Mark O.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England								55							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000634025600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Grossmann, Martin								Asymmetric Opportunities After an Unsuccessful Sports Career								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	5			587	612	1527002521995874	10.1177/1527002521995874			JUN 2021	2021	Contestants enter a risky contest when pursuing a sports career or choose a secure outside option. If contestants enter this contest but their sports career fails, they may have asymmetric career opportunities outside of sport. Greater opportunities reduce the risk of entering this contest. However, contestants' incentives to exert effort decrease. Two types of equilibria exist if the initial pool of contestants is large. Either only types with high opportunities or only types with low opportunities enter the sports contest. If the initial pool of contestants is low, both types of contestants participate in the contest.		[Grossmann, Martin] Univ Zurich, Dept Business Adm, Plattenstr 14, CH-8032 Zurich, Switzerland; [Grossmann, Martin] Lucerne Univ Appl Sci & Arts, Sch Business, Zentralstr 9, CH-6002 Luzern, Switzerland; [Grossmann, Martin] Univ Zurich, Dept Business Adm, Plattenstr 14, CH-8032 Zurich, Switzerland; [Grossmann, Martin] Lucerne Univ Appl Sci & Arts, Sch Business, Zentralstr 9, CH-6002 Luzern, Switzerland								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000630809400001	28	Article; Article		
J	Wells, Meredith; Yang, Feng								A kinetic analysis of the triple step in recreational swing dancers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	7			870	883		10.1080/14763141.2021.1898669			JUL 2 2024	2024	Despite its increasing popularity, swing dancing has not been fully studied biomechanically, imposing challenges in understanding the movement patterns associated with swing dancing. The purpose of this study was to examine the biomechanics of the triple step, one of the most common swing dance elements. We intended to determine whether dancing with a partner affects kinetic measurements and if these measurements are different among the three steps. Eight recreational swing dancers completed three triple steps to the right and the left with and without a partner. The loading rate of the vertical ground reaction force was calculated for each step, and bilateral lower limb joints moments and powers were determined. Results illustrated that dancing with or without a partner has limited effect on the kinetic measurements. However, the outcome measurements differed among the steps: a higher peak vertical ground reaction force during the first and second steps, a greater loading rate during the second step, and the greatest joint power absorption at the ankle and knee during the second step were observed. The findings extend our understanding of the biomechanics of swing dancing, and could provide preliminary guidance for understanding swing dance-related injuries and improving performance of swing dancing.		[Wells, Meredith; Yang, Feng] Georgia State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Yang, Feng] Georgia State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000629430100001	17	Article; Article		
J	Peek, Rebecca J.; Middleton, Kane J.; Gastin, Paul B.; Carey, David L.; Clarke, Anthea C.								Position specific peak impact and running demands of professional rugby union players during game play								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1162	1168	17479541211004065	10.1177/17479541211004065			OCT 2021	2021	This study quantifies the maximum number of impacts and peak running demands during 1- to 10- minute rolling window periods in elite rugby union matches using a multi-team dataset (n = 2232 player-games). Maximum values for impacts (impacts center dot min(-1)) and running (m center dot min(-1)) were calculated for 161 athletes from four teams across the 2018 and 2019 Super Rugby seasons. The effect of window duration and playing position on peak impact and running demands were estimated using linear mixed effect models and prediction intervals. The peak impact and running demands for a 1-min period were 4.5 - 5.5 impacts center dot min(-1) and 150 - 180 m center dot min(-1), depending on playing position. While small variations in mean impact and running movements could be observed by position, the large prediction interval and individual player variation meant that there was no practically meaningful difference by position. As such, when prescribing training drills to replicate the peak demands in rugby union, impact and running movements of players can be similar, regardless of position. Using a prediction interval allows us to identify the range where the demands in a future game may fall, and are beneficial to use when also trying to prepare players for the demands of rugby union.		[Peek, Rebecca J.; Middleton, Kane J.; Gastin, Paul B.; Carey, David L.; Clarke, Anthea C.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Peek, Rebecca J.] Melbourne Rebels Rugby Union Club, Athlet Performance Dept, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Peek, Rebecca J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Plenty Rd ,Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000630800100001	24	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Garcia, Raul; Muntanyola, Dafne								Understanding variability in defense against direct screens in basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1126	1137	17479541211000663	10.1177/17479541211000663			OCT 2021	2021	This paper presents a cognitive ethnography on the variability of interpersonal coordination in defense against direct screens during basketball games. We collected data through observation of ten games of Estudiantes U18 Team during the 2014/2015 season in Madrid. We filmed the game and showed clips of specific direct screens to players while conducting semi-structured interviews. We analyzed the video and the discourse qualitatively following grounded theory principles. We identified three categories expressing variability: failure, partial repair, and functional variation. Even though communication was quoted by the interviewed players as a key element in their decision-making, other contextual elements - related to framing and joint attention- affected the degree of variation and success. Based on these findings, the paper offers some recommendations for coaching the tactical behaviour of defense against direct screens.		[Sanchez-Garcia, Raul] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Social Sci, INEF, Madrid, Spain; [Muntanyola, Dafne] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Dept Sociol, Bellaterra, Spain; [Sanchez-Garcia, Raul] Univ Politecn Madrid, INEF, C Martin Fierro 7, Madrid 28040, Spain								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000630810300001	35	Article; Article		
J	Alt, Tobias; Knicker, Axel J.; Nodler, Yannick T.; Struder, Heiko K.								Assisted or unassisted Nordic Hamstring Exercise? - Resistance exercise determinants at a glance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	7			831	845		10.1080/14763141.2021.1893376			JUL 2 2024	2024	The Nordic Hamstring Exercise (NHE) effectively strengthens the knee flexors. Typically conducted without assistance, extended knee angles are not reached with sustained muscle activation in the presence of insufficient eccentric strength and/or fatigue. This might impair the desired neuromuscular adaptations and assessment accuracy. This study investigated kinetic and kinematic differences between assisted and unassisted NHEs (3 x 3 repetitions) performed by sixteen male sprinters (22 years, 181 cm, 76 kg). Kinetic (peak moment, impulse) and kinematic parameters (e.g., time under tension, range of motion to excessive downward acceleration (ROMDWA) were investigated. All analysed parameters significantly differed between assisted and unassisted NHEs (p <= 0.003; 0.635 <= eta p(2) <= 0.929) favouring assisted execution, except for peak moments and maximal hip flexion. Repetition 1 of assisted NHEs revealed 21% higher impulses rising to 82% during repetition 9. Equivalent interactions of mode and repetition became apparent for time under tension, ROMDWA, mean and fractional angular velocity. Unassisted NHEs elicited substantially greater inter-repetition fatigue (rep1 vs. rep9): +79% fractional angular velocity (d = 1.01), -41% impulse (d = 1.53), -31% ROMDWA (d = 0.99) and -29% time under tension (d = 1.45). Assisted NHEs ensured higher execution quality and lower between-participant variability by facilitating a controlled full-ROM movement. Three sets of 3 NHEs sufficed to induce substantial fatigue within and across sets.		[Alt, Tobias] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Westphalia, Dept Biomech Performance Anal & Strength & Condit, Dortmund, Germany; [Alt, Tobias; Knicker, Axel J.; Nodler, Yannick T.; Struder, Heiko K.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Movement & Neurosci, Cologne, Germany; [Knicker, Axel J.; Struder, Heiko K.] Momentum, Res Ctr Elite Sports, Cologne, Germany; [Alt, Tobias] Olymp Training & Testing Ctr Westphalia, Dept Biomech Performance Anal & Strength & Condit, Dortmund, Germany; [Alt, Tobias] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Movement & Neurosci, Cologne, Germany								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000629426500001	24	Article; Article		
J	Samad, Manar D.; Sen, Sumen								A probabilistic approach to identifying run scoring advantage in the order of playing cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			1011	1020	17479541211000333	10.1177/17479541211000333			AUG 2021	2021	In the game of cricket, the decision to bat first after winning the toss is often taken to make the best use of superior pitch conditions and set a big target for the opponent. However, the opponent may fail to show their natural batting performance in the second innings due to several factors, including deteriorated pitch conditions and excessive pressure of chasing a high target score. The advantage of batting first has been highlighted in the literature and expert opinions. However, the effect of batting and bowling order on match outcome has not been investigated well enough to recommend an adjustment of potential bias. This study proposes a probability-based model to study venue-specific scoring and chasing characteristics of teams with different match outcomes. A total of 1117 one-day international cricket matches held in ten popular venues are analyzed to show substantially high scoring likelihood when the winning team bat in the first innings. In a high scoring match, results suggest that the same bat-first winning team is very unlikely to score or chase the same high score if they bat in the second innings. We use the Bayesian rule to identify the bias in the scoring likelihood due to the playing order (bat-first versus bat-second). The bias is adjusted by revising the second innings target in a way that equalizes winning and run scoring likelihoods of both teams. The data and source code have been shared publicly for future research in creating competitive match outcomes by eliminating the advantage of batting order in run scoring.		[Samad, Manar D.] Tennessee State Univ, Dept Comp Sci, Nashville, TN 37203 USA; [Sen, Sumen] Austin Peay State Univ, Dept Math & Stat, Clarksville, TN 37044 USA; [Samad, Manar D.] Tennessee State Univ, Dept Comp Sci, Nashville, TN 37203 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000630571500001	21	Article; Article		
J	Thorley, Jack								Age-related changes in the performance of bowlers in Test match cricket; Bowled over or over bowled? Age-related changes in the performance of bowlers in Test match cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING; INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1138	1151	17479541211001726	10.1177/17479541211001726			OCT 2021	2021	Data from elite professional sports players provide a valuable source of information on human performance and ageing. Functional declines in performance have been investigated across a wide range of sporting disciplines that vary in their need for physical strength, endurance, cognitive ability and motor skills, but researchers do not always consider other sources of heterogeneity that can exist between individuals. Using information on all male bowlers to have played Test match cricket since the early 1970s, this study separated age-dependent variation in bowling performance at the population-level into within-individual and between-individual (age-class) changes. There was little evidence for senescence in bowling performance as measured via economy rate or wicket-taking ability, irrespective of the style of the bowler (fast or slow). Instead, analyses detected strong between-individual contributions to bowling performance as higher quality bowlers were able to compete at the elite level for longer, and were therefore over-represented in older age classes: how they accomplish this alongside the physical demands of Test cricket remains unresolved. Bowlers also experienced a deterioration in the last year of their Test careers. Lastly, multivariate models identified a negative correlation between slow bowlers in their economy rate and their wicket-taking ability, suggesting that in general, the most economical slow bowlers in the modern era of Test match cricket have also taken wickets at the fastest rate. The same is not true for fast bowlers, which is perhaps partly because bowling at high speed compromises accuracy and thus increases scoring opportunities for batters.		[Thorley, Jack] Univ Cambridge, Dept Zool, Downing St, Cambridge CB2 3EJ, England; [Thorley, Jack] Univ Cambridge, Dept Zool, Downing St, Cambridge CB2 3EJ, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000630583100001	71	Article; Article		
J	Bean, Corliss; Shaikh, Majidullah; Kramers, Sara; Forneris, Tanya								Does context matter? Unpacking differences in program quality and developmental experiences across competitive and recreational youth sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1204	1213	17479541211001879	10.1177/17479541211001879			OCT 2021	2021	To date, little research has explored differences between competitive and recreational youth sport contexts beyond descriptions of inherent features. The purpose of this exploratory study was to examine if differences existed between competitive and recreational youth sport on (a) observed quality delivery and (b) youth's perceptions of basic psychological needs satisfaction and developmental experiences. Forty-six youth sport teams participated in the study from competitive (n = 23) and recreational contexts. This study adopted a multi-method approach of self-report questionnaires and researcher observations. Teams agreed to be involved in observations (n = 3), questionnaires (n = 12) or both methods of data collection (n = 31). Quality was assessed through 216 observations (n = 134 competitive; M-per team = 6.55), while basic psychological needs satisfaction and developmental experiences were examined through two questionnaires (N = 413) completed at season end. Descriptive statistics and MANOVAs were calculated for all measures and associated subscales. Results revealed non-significant differences between competitive and recreational programs, despite high scores across the three measures. Significant effects are discussed related to of coaches' years of coaching experience on program quality and ethnicity ratios on positive developmental experiences. Also discussed are notable effect sizes on opportunities for belonging and choice, where recreational contexts scored higher than competitive on each factor. Results offer understandings of how coach delivery can be enhanced, regardless of context, to optimize developmental benefits for youth. Implications are discussed for how future research can explore the complexities of different sport contexts, including associated coaching practices.		[Bean, Corliss; Forneris, Tanya] Univ British Columbia, Sch Hlth & Exercise Sci, Kelowna, BC, Canada; [Shaikh, Majidullah; Kramers, Sara] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Bean, Corliss] 1812 Sir Isaac Brock Way, St Catharines, ON L2S 3A1, Canada								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000630560400001	48	Article; Article		
J	Siani, Mojtaba Ghasemi; Mohammadi, Sardar; Hosseini, Mohammad Soltan; Dickson, Geoff								Comparing young adult responses to rational and emotional sports product advertisements: the moderating role of product type and gender								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	4			798	815		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2020-0045			OCT 12 2021	2021	Purpose The purpose of the study was to compare young adult responses to rational and emotional sports product advertisements. The moderating roles of product type and gender were also examined. Design/methodology/approach The study utilized a 2 (advertising appeal: emotional vs rational) x2 (gender: male vs female)x2 (sport product type: utilitarian vs hedonic) research design. Data were collected from 160 sport product users. The collected data were analyzed using three-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). Findings The results indicated that emotional advertising has a greater impact on the attitude toward advertising and the intention to purchase sports products. The results also revealed that rational advertising appeals have more impact for utilitarian sports products and that emotional advertising appeals are more effective for hedonic sports products. However, there were no significant effects for gender as a moderating variable. Originality/value This is the first study to examine responses to rational and emotional appeals in sports product advertisements.		[Siani, Mojtaba Ghasemi] Univ Kurdistan, Sanandaj, Iran; [Mohammadi, Sardar] Univ Kurdistan, Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Sanandaj, Iran; [Hosseini, Mohammad Soltan] Univ Isfahan, Fac Sports Sci, Sport Management, Esfahan, Iran; [Dickson, Geoff] La Trobe Univ, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Mohammadi, Sardar] Univ Kurdistan, Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Sanandaj, Iran								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000627038300001	65	Article; Article		
J	Coyne, Lara M.; Newell, Micheal; Hoozemans, Marco J. M.; Morrison, Andrew; Brown, Susan J.								Marker location and knee joint constraint affect the reporting of overhead squat kinematics in elite youth football players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	6			740	757		10.1080/14763141.2021.1890197			JUN 2 2024	2024	Motion capture systems are used in the analysis and interpretation of athlete movement patterns for a variety of reasons, but data integrity remains critical regardless. The extent to which marker location or constraining degrees of freedom (DOF) in the biomechanical model impacts on this integrity lacks consensus. Ten elite academy footballers performed bilateral overhead squats using a marker-based motion capture system. Kinematic data were calculated using four different marker sets with 3DOF and 6DOF configurations for the three joint rotations of the right knee. Root mean squared error differences between marker sets ranged in the sagittal plane between 1.02 and 4.19 degrees to larger values in the frontal (1.30-6.39 degrees) and transverse planes (1.33 and 7.97 degrees). The cross-correlation function of the knee kinematic time series for all eight marker-sets ranged from excellent for sagittal plane motion (>0.99) but reduced for both coronal and transverse planes (<0.9). Two-way ANOVA repeated measures calculated at peak knee flexion revealed significant differences between marker sets for frontal and transverse planes (p < 0.05). Pairwise comparisons showed significant differences between some marker sets. Marker location and constraining DOF while measuring relatively large ranges of motion in this population are important considerations for data integrity.		[Coyne, Lara M.; Newell, Micheal] Natl Univ Ireland, Sch Med, Galway, Ireland; [Coyne, Lara M.] Arsenal Football Club, Arsenal Performance & Res Team, London, England; [Coyne, Lara M.] Natl Univ Ireland, Ctr Data Analyt, Insight, Galway, Ireland; [Hoozemans, Marco J. M.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Morrison, Andrew] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge Ctr Sports & Exercise Sci, Cambridge, England; [Brown, Susan J.] Edinburgh Napier Univ, Sch Appl Sci Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Brown, Susan J.] Edinburgh Napier Univ, Sch Appl Sci Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625680400001	65	Article; Article		
J	Oranchuk, Dustin J.; Diewald, Shelley N.; McGrath, Joey W.; Nelson, Andre R.; Storey, Adam G.; Cronin, John B.								Kinetic and kinematic profile of eccentric quasi-isometric loading								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	6			758	771		10.1080/14763141.2021.1890198			JUN 2 2024	2024	Eccentric quasi-isometric (EQI) contractions (maintaining a yielding contraction for as long as possible, beyond task failure) have gained interest in research and applied settings. However, little is known regarding the biomechanical profile of EQIs. Fourteen well-trained males performed four maximal effort knee-extensor EQIs, separated by 180 seconds. Angular impulse, velocity, and time-under-tension through the 30-100o range of motion (ROM), and in eight ROM brackets were quantified. Statistical parametric mapping, analyses of variance, and standardised effects (Hedges' g (ES), %Delta) detected between-contraction joint-angle-specific differences in time-normalised and absolute variables. Mean velocity was 1.34o center dot s(-1) with most (62.5 +/- 4.9%) of the angular impulse imparted between 40-70o. Most between-contraction changes occurred between 30-50o (p <= 0.067, ES = 0.53 +/- 0.31, 60 +/- 52%), while measures remained constant between 50-100o (= 0.069-0.83, ES = 0.10 +/- 0.26, 14.3 +/- 24.6%). EQIs are a time-efficient means to impart high cumulative mechanical tension, especially at short to medium muscle lengths. However, angular impulse distribution shifts towards medium to long muscle lengths with repeat contractions. Practitioners may utilise EQIs to emphasize the initial portion of the ROM, and limit ROM, or apply EQIs in a fatigued state to emphasize longer muscle lengths.		[Oranchuk, Dustin J.; Diewald, Shelley N.; McGrath, Joey W.; Storey, Adam G.; Cronin, John B.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Oranchuk, Dustin J.; Nelson, Andre R.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Oranchuk, Dustin J.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Oranchuk, Dustin J.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625739700001	50	Article; Article		
J	Thompson, Kamali; Chang, Gregory; Alaia, Michael; Jazrawi, Laith; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem								Lower extremity injuries in US national fencing team members and US fencing Olympians								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	3			212	217		10.1080/00913847.2021.1895693			MAY 4 2022	2022	Introduction: Fencing is growing rapidly in popularity and competitiveness with fencers beginning at a younger age and competing in more tournaments. Even though fencing has a low risk of time-loss injury, fencers are inevitably going to experience injuries if proper athletic training and prevention does not occur. We aim to describe and compare the lower extremity injuries experienced by fencers that have trained at the highest level in the sport. We hypothesized that athletes who fenced longer would suffer more knee and hip injuries and report lower IKDC and HOS scores. Methods: This is an epidemiology study distributed to members of the U.S. national team and Olympic team from 1980 to 2018. The electronic survey included questions regarding age, weapon, number of years fencing, number of national and Olympic teams, injuries on the dominant and nondominant hip and knee, time missed due to injury, and methods for treatment. The survey also included the International Knee Demographic Committee (IKDC) and Hip Outcome Score (HOS). Results: There were 153 national team members between July 1980 and July 2018, 110 with contact information. A total of 77 athletes submitted the survey, consisting of 30 females and 47 males. Female fencers had more hip injuries and lower IKDC and HOS scores than their male counterparts. In total, there were 71 injuries to the dominant (front) knee and 28 injuries to the nondominant (back) knee. There were 32 dominant hip injuries and 5 nondominant hip injuries. Saber fencers reported the most dominant and nondominant hip and knee injuries. Conclusion: The intense, repetitive and asymmetrical movements involved in fencing affect the weight bearing leg and the nondominant leg in all weapons. Special attention should be paid to female fencers as they experience more hip and knee injuries resulting in impaired joint function.		[Thompson, Kamali; Chang, Gregory; Alaia, Michael; Jazrawi, Laith; Gonzalez-Lomas, Guillem] NYU Langone Hlth, Dept Orthoped Surg, NYU Langone Orthoped Hosp, Div Sports Med, New York, NY 10003 USA; [Thompson, Kamali] NYU Langone Hlth, Dept Orthoped Surg, NYU Langone Orthoped Hosp, Div Sports Med, New York, NY 10003 USA								13							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625671800001	33	Article; Article		
J	Born, Dennis-Peter; Kuger, Joris; Polach, Marek; Romann, Michael								Start and turn performances of elite male swimmers: benchmarks and underlying mechanisms								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	4			484	502		10.1080/14763141.2021.1872693			APR 2 2024	2024	The aim was to provide benchmarks and investigate contribution of start and turn performances in the European Short-Course Swimming Championship. Over all race distances, 932 individual races of male competitors were video captured and the start and turn performances were analysed. Start and turn performances contributed up to 26% and 56% of the total race time. Analysis of variance showed that the 15 m start times were faster for Freestyle and Butterfly (p < 0.001) compared to the other swimming strokes. In-water starts (Backstroke) were slower at the 5 m mark compare to on-block starts (p < 0.001). Tumble turns were faster than open turns (p < 0.001). Multiple linear regression analysis explained 82-97% of total variance in the race results with a decreasing effect of start performance for the longer distance races. Turn performance affected the results across all race distances (p < 0.001). The benchmarks and percentiles provide comparative data for swimmers of different performance levels. Considering the large contribution of start and turn performance to race time and the high effect in the regression model, training regimes that are mainly based on conditioning of free-swimming should be reconsidered.		[Born, Dennis-Peter; Kuger, Joris; Romann, Michael] Swiss Fed Inst Sport Magglingen, Dept Elite Sport, Magglingen, Switzerland; [Born, Dennis-Peter] Swiss Swimming Federat, Dept High Performance Sports, Bern, Switzerland; [Polach, Marek] Czech Swimming Federat, Dept Competit Swimming, Prague, Czech Republic; [Polach, Marek] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Dept Social Sci Kinanthropol, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Born, Dennis-Peter] Swiss Fed Inst Sport Magglingen, Dept Elite Sport, Magglingen, Switzerland; [Born, Dennis-Peter] Swiss Swimming Federat, Dept High Performance Sports, Bern, Switzerland								31							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625544500001	45	Article; Article		
J	Bower, Dane; Herbert, Erik; Breedlove, Katherine M.; Lacy, Alicia Pike M.; Casa, Douglas; Bowman, Thomas G.								Mechanical characterization of athletic helmet shells								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	2			241	252		10.1080/14763141.2020.1837926			FEB 1 2024	2024	Our purpose was to compare the mechanical properties of the protective outer shells of various athletic helmets in their final, fully manufactured form. Sections were taken from 3 different helmet shells (Bauer RE-AKT hockey helmet, Cascade R lacrosse helmet, and Riddell Speedflex football helmet) at 4 different locations (front, side, top, and rear) for a total of 12 test specimens. The 4 specimens from each helmet shell were potted together in epoxy resin moulds and mechanically polished. The hardness, elastic modulus and phase angle were measured using dynamic nanoindentation performed at 100 Hz with an oscillation amplitude of 1 nm (rms). Repeated ANOVA analysis was used to compare each of the dependent variables for each of the 3 helmets across the 4 different locations. The interaction between helmet type and location was significant for hardness (F-6,F-63 = 2.84, P = 0.032, P eta(2) = 0.21), elastic modulus (F-6,F-63 = 6.412, P < 0.001, P eta(2) = 0.38), and phase angle (F-6,F-63 = 7.65, P < 0.001, P eta(2) = 0.42). Polycarbonate has a higher ability to dissipate mechanical energy making it the recommended superior choice for helmet shells. In addition, the results lead us to speculate that manufacturing causes changes in the molecular weight or the distribution of fillers across locations for polyethylene but not for polycarbonate since mechanical properties are fairly uniform over the surface of football helmets, at least within a given helmet.		[Bower, Dane; Bowman, Thomas G.] Univ Lynchburg, Dept Athlet Training, Lynchburg, VA 24501 USA; [Herbert, Erik] Michigan Technol Univ, Mat Sci & Engn, Houghton, MI 49931 USA; [Breedlove, Katherine M.] Brigham & Womens Hosp, Ctr Clin Spect, 75 Francis St, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Breedlove, Katherine M.] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Radiol, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Lacy, Alicia Pike M.] AT Still Univ, Dept Interdisciplinary Hlth Sci, Mesa, AZ USA; [Lacy, Alicia Pike M.; Casa, Douglas] Univ Connecticut, Korey Stringer Inst, Storrs, CT USA; [Casa, Douglas] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Bowman, Thomas G.] Univ Lynchburg, Dept Athlet Training, Lynchburg, VA 24501 USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625521300001	26	Article; Article		
J	Psycharakis, Stelios G.; Soultanakis, Helen; Gonzalez Rave, Jose Maria; Paradisis, Giorgios P.								Force production during maximal front crawl tethered swimming: exploring bilateral asymmetries and differences between breathing and non-breathing conditions								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	6			788	802		10.1080/14763141.2021.1891277			JUN 2 2024	2024	The present study focused on propulsive forces applied during tethered swimming. The main aims were to identify asymmetries between dominant and non-dominant arms, quantify the effect of breathing on force application and, explore any association between each variable and swimming performance. Fifteen regional level swimmers completed a maximal front crawl tethered swimming test, with maximal kicking, under four conditions: 1) Dominant arm strokes only, no breathing; 2) non-dominant arm strokes only, no breathing; 3) full stroke, no breathing; 4) full stroke, breathing on the preferred side. The outcome variables were: absolute and normalised (force divided by body mass) minimum, mean and maximum force; stroke cycle time and; impulse. The symmetry index was also calculated, and all variables were correlated with the swimmers' season best times in 50 m front crawl. Some bilateral force asymmetries were found, but they did not always favour the dominant side and were not directly linked with swimming performance. There was no strong evidence that force production is higher on the dominant side or that symmetry in force production affects performance. Despite the longer stroke cycle times when breathing, the breathing actions did not affect force production. Faster swimmers often produced higher maximum force values and, sometimes, higher mean force values.		[Psycharakis, Stelios G.] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Soultanakis, Helen; Paradisis, Giorgios P.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Gonzalez Rave, Jose Maria] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sport Sci, Toledo, Spain; [Psycharakis, Stelios G.] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000624990000001	19	Article; Article		
J	Aurelien, Boucher; Yuqing, Li; Xueyun, Shao								Being a golf trainer in China: The life of an artist?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			1021	1034	1747954121998012	10.1177/1747954121998012			AUG 2021	2021	This article investigates the earnings of Chinese golf trainers. Through a combination of ethnographic observations, interviews and a quantitative survey analysis, it depicts the social structure of the economy of golf training in China, showing that golf trainers' playing abilities and fame, rather than any certificate of competence (e.g. diploma or professional certification), determine their earnings. At the same time, we underline many common characteristics between the artists' labour market and the golf trainers' labour market, such as the importance of fame and a winner-takes-all logic.		[Aurelien, Boucher] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Sch Humanity & Social Sci, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Yuqing, Li] Univ Chicago, Social Sci Div, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Xueyun, Shao] Shenzhen Univ, Golf Coll, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Aurelien, Boucher] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Sch Humanity & Social Sci, Shenzhen, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000625639200001	48	Article; Article		
J	Fitzpatrick, Anna; Stone, Joseph A.; Choppin, Simon; Kelley, John								Investigating the most important aspect of elite grass court tennis: Short points								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	5			1178	1186	1747954121999593	10.1177/1747954121999593			OCT 2021	2021	Research has shown that short points (points of 0-4 shots) are crucial in determining the outcome of elite men's and women's grass court tennis matches. However, research has not explored the importance of short points in more detail to inform practice design. This study aimed to establish the prevalence and importance of individual rally lengths within short points (i.e. points of 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 shots) in terms of winning elite grass court tennis matches. Using the recently-validated PWOL (Percentage of matches in which the Winner Outscored the Loser) method, point-level data from 211 men's and 209 women's Wimbledon singles matches between 2015 and 2017 were analysed, with short points stratified into individual rally lengths. Results revealed that 1 shot (aces and missed serve-returns) was the most common rally length, with 0 shots (double faults) the least common. Points won of 1 shot, 2 shots and 4 shots were associated with winning matches and can therefore be considered important, but points won of 0 shots and 3 shots were not associated with match outcome. These results highlight the importance of serving and returning strategies at Wimbledon, and indicate that serves and serve-returns should be afforded focus during grass court training. However, the findings appear to contravene anecdotal assertions that 'serve plus one' strategies (points won of 3 shots) are crucial in elite tennis, as they did not differentiate winning and losing players; so coaches should consider the associated practice designs and amount of time afforded to such strategies.		[Fitzpatrick, Anna; Choppin, Simon; Kelley, John] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sports Engn Res Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Stone, Joseph A.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Fitzpatrick, Anna] Sheffield Hallam Univ, S001 Chestnut Court, Sheffield S10 2BP, S Yorkshire, England								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000625639100001	58	Article; Article		
J	Barrack, Adam J.; Straub, Rachel K.; Cannon, Jordan; Powers, Christopher M.								Title: the relative orientation of the trunk and tibia can be used to estimate the demands on the hip and knee extensors during the barbell back squat								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			1004	1010	1747954121997957	10.1177/1747954121997957			AUG 2021	2021	Sagittal plane inclination of the trunk and tibia have been shown to independently modulate hip and knee extensor moments during squatting. The purpose of this study was to determine if the difference between sagittal plane trunk and tibia inclinations can be used to approximate the relative demand of the hip and knee extensors across a range of squatting conditions. Kinematic and kinetic data were obtained from 16 participants during 8 squat conditions in which trunk and tibia inclination were manipulated. The average hip/knee extensor moment ratio (HKR) was calculated during the lowering (eccentric) phase of each squat condition using inverse dynamics equations. Linear regression evaluated the association between the difference in trunk and tibia inclination at peak knee flexion and the average HKR. Across all squat conditions, the difference between trunk and tibia inclinations explained 70% of the variance in the average HKR (p < 0.001). The squat was knee extensor biased (HKR <= 1.0) when the tibia was at least 8 degrees more inclined than the trunk. The results of this study indicate that the relationship between sagittal plane trunk and tibia inclination can be used to estimate the relative demand of the hip and knee extensors.		[Barrack, Adam J.; Straub, Rachel K.; Cannon, Jordan; Powers, Christopher M.] Univ Southern Calif, Musculoskeletal Biomech Res Lab, Los Angeles, CA 90007 USA; [Powers, Christopher M.] 1540 Alcazar St,CHP-155, Los Angeles, CA 90089 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000625639300001	16	Article; Article		
J	Thng, Shiqi; Pearson, Simon; Mitchell, Lachlan J. G.; Meulenbroek, Clare; Keogh, Justin W. L.								On-block mechanistic determinants of start performance in high performance swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	5			682	694		10.1080/14763141.2021.1887342			MAY 3 2024	2024	This study aimed to 1) identify what starting block outcome kinetics have the greatest relationship to 15 m start time; 2) investigate key mechanistic determinants of the block phase and how these forces are sequenced. One hundred and fifty-two high-level competitive swimmers were included in the study. Linear mixed modelling identified four on-block outcome kinetic variables (work, average power, horizontal take-off velocity (HTOV), and average acceleration) as having a very large relationship (R-2 = 0.79-0.83) to 15 m start time, with average power having the most substantial impact. On-block force sequencing started with the rear leg, followed by upper limb grab forces and the front leg. Further exploration of underlying determinants was performed for average power and HTOV of the centre of mass. Multiple linear regression identified grab resultant peak force, rear resultant average force, front horizontal peak force, and resultant peak force as significant predictors of average power (R-2 = 0.88). HTOV was predicted using the same variables, apart from the inclusion of rear horizontal peak force instead of rear resultant average force (R-2 = 0.73). These findings may influence how strength and conditioning and skill acquisition interventions are designed to improve swim start performance.		[Thng, Shiqi; Keogh, Justin W. L.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Thng, Shiqi; Pearson, Simon; Mitchell, Lachlan J. G.; Meulenbroek, Clare] Queensland Acad Sport, Sport Performance Innovat & Knowledge Excellence, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Meulenbroek, Clare] Australian Catholic Univ, Elite Athlete & Performer Program, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Ctr New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Fac Sci Hlth Educ & Engn, Cluster Hlth Improvement, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] Manipal Acad Higher Educ, Kasturba Med Coll, Manipal, India; [Thng, Shiqi] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Thng, Shiqi] Queensland Acad Sport, Sport Performance Innovat & Knowledge Excellence, Nathan, Qld, Australia								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625700000001	22	Article; Article		
J	de Villarreal, Eduardo Saez; Molina, Jose Galan; de Castro-Maqueda, Guillermo; Gutierrez-Manzanedo, Jose, V								Effects of Plyometric, Strength and Change of Direction Training on High-School Basketball Player's Physical Fitness								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			175	186		10.2478/hukin-2021-0036175			MAR 2021	2021	The study aim was to compare the effects of a 7-week plyometric, strength and change of direction (COD) training program on basketball-specific performance measures in high-school players. Forty male players were randomly assigned to one of the four groups: plyometric (PG, n = 10), strength (SG, n = 10), COD (CODG, n = 10), and control group training (CG, n = 10). Two training sessions were performed at weekly intervals before basketball training. Performance of the counter movement jump (CMJ), Abalakov jump (ABKJ), 10 m zig-zag sprint, 20 m in line sprint (measurements at 10 and 20 m), and sit and reach flexibility test (SRFT) was assessed before and after the intervention. A 4 (group) x 2 (time) repeated measures analysis of variances (ANOVA) was conducted for each variable. Bonferroni post-hoc tests were used when the interaction was significant. Significant (all p < 0.05) time x group interaction was noted for SRFT, CMJ, ABK, sprint, and zig-zag 10 m, in favor of the experimental groups compared to the control group. However, improvements in physical fitness were similar between the three experimental groups. In conclusion, 7 weeks of specific plyometric, strength and COD training produced similar medium to large improvements in physical fitness of high-school basketball players.		[de Villarreal, Eduardo Saez; Molina, Jose Galan] Univ Pablo Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [de Castro-Maqueda, Guillermo; Gutierrez-Manzanedo, Jose, V] Univ Cadiz, Dept Phys Educ, Avda Republ Saharaui S-N, Cadiz 11519, Spain; [Gutierrez-Manzanedo, Jose, V] Univ Cadiz, Dept Phys Educ, Avda Republ Saharaui S-N, Cadiz 11519, Spain								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600017	45	Article; Article		
J	Judge, Lawrence W.; Woodward, Stephen C.; Gillham, Andy D.; Blom, Lindsey C.; Hoover, Donald L.; Schoeff, Makenzie A.; Fox, Brian; Burt, Tammy; Bellar, David M.								Efficacy Sources that Predict Leadership Behaviors in Coaches of Athletes with Disabilities								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			271	281		10.2478/hukin-2021-0056			MAR 2021	2021	Researchers suggest that sport participation among athletes with disabilities promotes healthier lifestyles, increases self-esteem, and enhances peer acceptance. Ideally, coaches should be confident in teaching skills, tactics, and sportsmanship, while exhibiting appropriate leadership behaviors in order to positively impact the psychosocial development of any athlete. Thus, the present research examined sources of coaching efficacy that predict leadership behaviors in coaches who work with athletes who have physical disabilities. Seventy international Paralympic coaches of female and male sport teams completed a modified version of the Coaching Success Questionnaire-2, the Coaching Efficacy Scale and the Leadership Scale for Sports. Regression models indicated that total coaching efficacy was a significant predictor of instructional and positive feedback leadership behaviors, with prior success also being a significant predictor of instructional behavior.		[Judge, Lawrence W.; Woodward, Stephen C.; Blom, Lindsey C.; Schoeff, Makenzie A.; Fox, Brian; Burt, Tammy] Ball State Univ, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Gillham, Andy D.] Sanford Sports Sci Inst, Sioux Falls, SD USA; [Hoover, Donald L.] Western Michigan Univ, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Bellar, David M.] Univ N Carolina, Charlotte, NC USA; [Judge, Lawrence W.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, HP 360M, Muncie, IN 47306 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600026	29	Article; Article		
J	Lyson-Uklanska, Barbara; Blazkiewicz, Michalina; Kwacz, Monika; Wit, Andrzej								Muscle Force Patterns in Lower Extremity Muscles for Elite Discus Throwers, Javelin Throwers and Shot-Putters - A Case Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			5	14		10.2478/hukin-2021-00265			MAR 2021	2021	Optimal release variables, as well as the kinematics and kinetics of athletes, are crucial for the maximization of throwing distance in athletics. Mathematical models and simulations allow throwing techniques to be studied. However, muscle force patterns and the contribution of specific muscle groups in athletics throwing events are not well understood and require detailed research. In this study, important variables of the muscle force generated during the javelin, discus and shot put events were determined using OpenSim software. Musculoskeletal simulations were carried out based on kinematic and kinetic data collected using the Vicon system and Kistler plates with the help of nine top Polish athletes (three in each event). OpenSim software was used to calculate muscle forces and joint velocities. For each discipline, it was found that the main muscle groups involved in the throwing movement were better at distinguishing throwers than joint velocities. The contribution of right ankle plantar flexors at the beginning of the final acceleration phase as well as left hip extensors at the end of the final acceleration phase was given special attention. This work provides a better understanding of the techniques used in athletics throws. Musculoskeletal simulations of throwing styles might help coaches analyze the techniques of individual athletes, resulting in better adjustment of training programmes and injury prevention protocols.		[Lyson-Uklanska, Barbara; Blazkiewicz, Michalina; Wit, Andrzej] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland; [Lyson-Uklanska, Barbara; Kwacz, Monika] Warsaw Univ Technol, Fac Mechatron, Warsaw, Poland; [Lyson-Uklanska, Barbara] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600001	28	Article; Article		
J	Adamczyk, Jakub Grzegorz; Safranow, Krzysztof; Gajewski, Antoni Kazimierz; Boguszewski, Dariusz; Sozanski, Henryk; Soltyszewski, Ireneusz; Peplonska, Beata; Cieszczyk, Pawel; Siewierski, Marcin; Zekanowski, Cezary								The Second-to-Fourth Digit (2D:4D) Ratio of Male Combat Athletes is Associated with the Choice of Sport								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			59	66		10.2478/hukin-2020-0083			MAR 2021	2021	The second-to-fourth-digit (2D:4D) ratio has been widely used as a putative marker of prenatal exposure to testosterone in health, behavioral and sport sciences, but it has only been used few times regarding combat athletes. This study involved 200 male elite combat athletes (Olympic wrestling, kickboxing, judo, taekwondo and karate) and 179 males not participating in any sports. The lengths of the index finger (2D) and ring (4D) finger were measured using computer-assisted image analysis (AutoMetric 2.2 software). The 2D:4D ratio of combat athletes was significantly lower than that of the controls. Moreover, a lower 2D:4D ratio was found among wrestlers, judo athletes and kickboxers than in the control group, and a higher 2D:4D ratio was found, but with borderline significance, among karate and taekwondo athletes. Moreover, multivariate analysis adjusted for age showed that judo, Olympic wrestling and kick-boxing athletes combined had 2D:4D ratios significantly lower (by 0.035 on average) than those of the rest of the subjects and that karate and taekwondo athletes together had 2D:4D ratios significantly higher (by 0.014 on average) than those of the rest of the subjects. The research results and literature review indicate that knowledge about the functional meaning of the 2D:4D ratio is still too fragmentary and it is too early to use the 2D:4D ratio in the selection of sport talent; however, it may be a useful criteria when screening prospective athletes to be recruited to a team. That is why 2D:4D reference values should be defined for particular sports.		[Adamczyk, Jakub Grzegorz; Sozanski, Henryk; Siewierski, Marcin] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Dept Theory Sport, Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland; [Safranow, Krzysztof] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Biochem & Med Chem, Szczecin, Poland; [Gajewski, Antoni Kazimierz] Podhale State Higher Vocat Sch, Inst Humanist Studies & Tourism, Nowy Targ, Poland; [Boguszewski, Dariusz] Med Univ Warsaw, Dept Rehabil, Physiotherapy Div, Ks Trojdena 2C, PL-02091 Warsaw, Poland; [Soltyszewski, Ireneusz] Warmia & Mazury Univ, Dept Criminol & Forens Med, Olsztyn, Poland; [Peplonska, Beata; Zekanowski, Cezary] Polish Acad Sci, Mossakowski Med Res Ctr, Lab Neurogenet, Warsaw, Poland; [Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Adamczyk, Jakub Grzegorz] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Dept Theory Sport, Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600006	39	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Angulo, Antonio; Ortega-Toro, Enrique; Maria Gimenez-Egido, Jose; Olmedilla, Aurelio; Garcia-Mas, Alexandre; Manuel Palao, Jose								Does Youth Soccer Players' Group Cooperation Improve when Pitch, Goal, and Team Size Are Reduced?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			151	160		10.2478/hukin-2021-0035			MAR 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to analyse the effects of the modification of the pitch size, goal size, and the number of players per team on the level of cooperation in youth soccer players (U-12). A quasi-experimental design was implemented to measure the effects of the changes in the number of players per team (8-a-side vs. 5-a-side), goal size (6 x 2 m vs. 3 x 2 m), and field size (58 x 38 m vs. 38 x 20 m) on the cooperation. Four soccer teams under-12 (n = 48 players) participated in three tournaments (standard rules; proposed rules; standard rules). The five variables of cooperation were measured using the "Sports Cooperation Questionnaire": conditional cooperation, cooperation with the coach, disposition of unconditional cooperation, situational cooperation with teammates, and situational cooperation outside the field of play. Players presented the same level of cooperation in conditional cooperation, situational cooperation with teammates, and situational cooperation outside the field of play with both types of rules. The modification of rules involved a reduction of the cooperation with the coach and a disposition of unconditional cooperation. The causes of the reduction may be related to players' adaptation to new tactical dispositions and game situations. Future studies are needed of player's cooperation and different competition rules in youth sports.		[Garcia-Angulo, Antonio; Ortega-Toro, Enrique; Maria Gimenez-Egido, Jose] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Reg Campus Int Excellence Campus Mare Nostrum, Murcia, Spain; [Garcia-Angulo, Antonio; Ortega-Toro, Enrique; Maria Gimenez-Egido, Jose] Sport Performance Anal Assoc, Murcia, Spain; [Olmedilla, Aurelio] Univ Murcia, Fac Psychol, Dept Personal Evaluat & Psychol Treatment, Murcia, Spain; [Garcia-Mas, Alexandre] Univ Balearic Isl UIB, Fac Psychol, Dept Basic Psychol, Palma De Mallorca, Spain; [Manuel Palao, Jose] Univ Wisconsin Parkside, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Parkside, WI USA; [Ortega-Toro, Enrique] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Argentina St S-N,Campus San Javier, Murcia 30720, Spain								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600015	43	Article; Article		
J	Costa, Taline; Murara, Pedro; Vancini, Rodrigo Luiz; Barbosa de Lira, Claudio Andre; Andrade, Marilia Santos								Influence of Biological Maturity on the Muscular Strength of Young Male and Female Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			67	77		10.2478/hukin-2021-0029			MAR 2021	2021	The present study compared the evolution of strength and muscle mass in swimmers of both sexes across different chronological and biological ages. Seventy-six swimmers (55 males and 21 females) from 10 to 20 years of age underwent evaluations of sexual maturation using the developmental stage of the genitals (G1, G2, G3 G4 and G5) and pubic hair (P1, P2, P3, P4 and P5) (Tanner criteria), lean mass using the dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry method, and isokinetic strength of the knee extensor muscles. Boys did not present a significant difference in strength among G1, G2, and G3 (p > 0.05) nor between 10 and 13 years of age (p > 0.05), although significant differences in strength of the extensor (p = 0.038) muscles of the knee were found between G3 and G4 and between athletes of 10 and 14 years of age (extensor muscles, p = 0.033). Muscle mass was different between G3 and G4 (p = 0.003) and between 10 and 14 years of age (p = 0.020). The mean age of boys in the G4 pubertal stage was 13.7 +/- 2.0 years, although from 12 to 16 years of age, boys are typically in the G4 stage. Girls showed no significant differences in strength nor muscle mass among the pubertal stages (p > 0.05). We conclude that by equating boys by chronological age, individuals with different pubertal development levels, muscle mass, and strength levels can be grouped. Therefore, the relationship between the level of pubertal deve-lopment and chronological age seems to be a useful strategy for grouping boys, while grouping girls by chronological age seems adequate for training and competition.		[Costa, Taline; Murara, Pedro; Andrade, Marilia Santos] Fed Univ Sao Paulo UNIFESP, Dept Physiol, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Vancini, Rodrigo Luiz] Fed Univ Espirito Santo UFES, Ctr Phys Educ & Sports, Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Barbosa de Lira, Claudio Andre] Fed Univ Goias UFG, Dept Human Physiol & Exercise, Human Movement Assessment Lab, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Barbosa de Lira, Claudio Andre] Ave Esperanca S-N,Campus Samambaia, BR-74690900 Goiania, Go, Brazil								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600007	33	Article; Article		
J	Costa, Bruna; Ferreira, Danielly M.; Gantois, Petrus; de Lima-Junior, Dalton; Kassiano, Witalo; Cyrino, Edilson S.; Fortes, Leonardo S.								Performing Repetitions To Failure in Lower-Limb Single-Joint Exercise does not Reduce Countermovement Jump Performance in Trained Male Adults								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			209	217		10.2478/hukin-2021-0049			MAR 2021	2021	Performing repetitions to failure (RF) is a strategy that might acutely reduce neuromuscular performance, as well as increase the rating of perceived exertion (RPE) and the internal training load (ITL) during and after a resistance training (RT) session. Thus, this study aimed to analyze the acute effects of RF or repetitions not to failure (RNF) on countermovement jump (CMJ) performance and the ITL in trained male adults. Eleven men performed two experimental protocols in randomized order (RF vs. RNF). Under the RF condition, participants performed three sets of the leg extension exercise using 100% of the 10RM load and rest intervals of 180-s between sets. Under the RNF condition, participants were submitted to six sets of five repetitions with the same intensity and an 80-s rest interval between sets in the same exercise. The CMJ test was analyzed before and following (15-s and 30-min, respectively) each experimental session. The ITL was evaluated by multiplying the RPE and the total session time, 30-min after the protocol. No main effect or interaction time vs. condition was found for CMJ performance (p > 0.05). In contrast, the ITL showed higher values under the RF condition (p = 0.003). Therefore, even though RF-induced a greater ITL, our results suggest that adopting this strategy in one single-joint exercise for the lower limbs does not seem sufficient to reduce CMJ height.		[Costa, Bruna; Kassiano, Witalo; Cyrino, Edilson S.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Metab Nutr & Exercise Lab, Rodovia Celso Garcia Cid Km 380, BR-86057970 Londrina, Parana, Brazil; [Ferreira, Danielly M.] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Dept Phys Educ, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Gantois, Petrus; de Lima-Junior, Dalton; Fortes, Leonardo S.] Univ Fed Paraiba, Dept Phys Educ, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Costa, Bruna] Univ Estadual Londrina, Metab Nutr & Exercise Lab, Rodovia Celso Garcia Cid Km 380, BR-86057970 Londrina, Parana, Brazil								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600020	30	Article; Article		
J	Mangine, Gerald T.; Feito, Yuri; Tankersley, Joy E.; McDougle, Jacob M.; Kliszczewicz, Brian M.								Workout Pacing Predictors of Crossfit® Open Performance: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			89	100		10.2478/hukin-2021-004389			MAR 2021	2021	To observe workout repetition and rest interval pacing strategies and determine which best predicted performance during the 2016 CrossFit (R) Open, five male (34.4 +/- 3.8 years, 176 +/- 5 cm, 80.3 +/- 9.7 kg) and six female (35.2 +/- 6.3 years, 158 +/- 7 cm, 75.9 +/- 19.3 kg) recreational competitors were recruited for this observational, pilot study. Exercise, round, and rest time were quantified via a stopwatch for all competitors on their first attempt of each of the five workouts. Subsequently, pacing was calculated as a repetition rate (repetitions.s(-1)) to determine the fastest, slowest, and average rate for each exercise, round, and rest interval, as well as how these changed (i.e., slope,. rate / round) across each workout. Spearman's rank correlation coefficients indicated that several pacing variables were significantly (p < 0.05) related to performance on each workout. However, stepwise regression analysis indicated that the average round rate best predicted (p < 0.001) performance on the first (R-2 = 0.89), second (R-2 = 0.99), and fifth (R-2 = 0.94) workouts, while the competitors' rate on their slowest round best predicted workout three performance (R-2 = 0.94, p < 0.001). The wall ball completion rate (R-2 = 0.89, p = 0.002) was the best predictor of workout four performance, which was improved by 9.8% with the inclusion of the deadlift completion rate. These data suggest that when CrossFit (R) Open workouts consist of multiple rounds, competitors should employ a fast and sustainable pace to improve performance. Otherwise, focusing on one or two key exercises may be the best approach.		[Mangine, Gerald T.; Feito, Yuri; Tankersley, Joy E.; McDougle, Jacob M.; Kliszczewicz, Brian M.] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA; [Mangine, Gerald T.] Kennesaw State Univ, Exercise Sci & Sport Management, 520 Parliament Garden Way NW, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600009	30	Article; Article		
J	Podmenik, Nadja; Supej, Matej; Debevec, Hana; Erculj, Frane								Common Movement Patterns of the Jump Shot while Increasing the Distance from the Basket in Elite Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			29	39		10.2478/hukin-2021-0042			MAR 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to examine chosen kinematic variables (duration of the shot, position of the centre of mass, position of the shooting hand, rotation of the shoulder axis) of successful shots and to describe differences in movement patterns in elite basketball players while increasing the distance from the basket during a jump shot. Our participants were three elite shooting guards who were all Slovenian national team and Euroleague players. They were shooting from three different distances (3.75 m, 5.25 m, and 6.75 m); analysis included 90 successful shots. The kinematics of the entire body was analysed using the inertial motion capture suit. The main interest was on the transverse plane (direction Y), focusing on rotational movements and movements to the left and right. The results showed that the rotation of the shoulder axis in the transverse plane, with all three participants, was greatest (p < .05) from the longest distance. Despite that graphs of individual players differed, deviation to the left was most significant while shooting from the largest distance for all participants. Also the landing from the jump shot was on the left according to the origin. For example, the average deviation to the left for player no. 2 was 11.9 +/- 3.6 cm (the shortest distance), 12.6 +/- 4.7 cm (the middle distance), and 23.3 +/- 5.1 cm (the longest distance). Distance from the basket influenced the kinematics of the shot, especially from the longest distance. Along with the already well-known changes in the sagittal plane (direction X and Z), this research provides information on changes in the transverse plane, which are also very important, especially while shooting from longer distances.		[Podmenik, Nadja; Supej, Matej; Debevec, Hana; Erculj, Frane] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Podmenik, Nadja] Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, Ljubljana, Slovenia								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600003	25	Article; Article		
J	Strzala, Marek; Stanula, Arkadiusz; Krezalek, Piotr; Rejdych, Wojciech; Karpinski, Jakub; Maciejczyk, Marcin; Radecki-Pawlik, Artur								Specific and Holistic Predictors of Sprint Front Crawl Swimming Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			197	207		10.2478/hukin-2021-0058			MAR 2021	2021	The aim of the study was to examine the impact of selected water- and dry-land predictors of 50-m front crawl performance among 27 male swimmers aged 19.3 +/- 2.67 years. The following water tests were performed: front crawl tethered arm stroking in a water flume (flow velocity: 0.9 m center dot s(-1)) and leg tethered flutter kicking in a swimming pool. Anaerobic tests on dry land included arm cranking and a set of 10 countermovement jumps. The maximal and average forces generated by legs in tethered swimming (F-l (max) and F-l (ave)) turned out to be the strongest predictors of sprint swimming aptitude. These values were strongly correlated with total speed (V(total)50) (r = 0.49, p < 0.05 and r = 0.54, p < 0.01, respectively), start, turn, and finishing speed (VSTF) (r = 0.60, p < 0.01 and r = 0.67, p < 0.01, respectively). The relationship of Fl max and F-l ave with surface speed (V-surface) was moderate (r = 0.33, non-significant and r = 0.41, p < 0.05, respectively). The maximal force generated by arms (F-a max) during flume tethered swimming significantly influenced Vsurface and V(total)50 (0.51, p < 0.01 and 0.47, p < 0.05, respectively). Its relationship with V-STF was close to significant (0.36, p = 0.07). Upper and lower limb dry-land tests showed lower and more holistic relationships with the 50-m front crawl race, however, being a good complement to overall fitness assessment. Specific in-water evaluation, especially the newly prepared flutter kicking test, as well as dry-land tests, can be applied to regularly monitor progress in swimming training, and to identify talented swimmers.		[Strzala, Marek] Univ Phys Educ, Dept Water Sports, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Krakow, Poland; [Stanula, Arkadiusz; Rejdych, Wojciech; Karpinski, Jakub] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Swimming & Water Rescue, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72A, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Krezalek, Piotr] Univ Phys Educ, Dept Physiotherapy, Fac Rehabil, Krakow, Poland; [Maciejczyk, Marcin] Univ Phys Educ, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Krakow, Poland; [Radecki-Pawlik, Artur] Cracow Univ Technol, Fac Civil Engn, Krakow, Poland; [Stanula, Arkadiusz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Swimming & Water Rescue, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska 72A, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600019	53	Article; Article		
J	Van Campenhout, Kristien; Chapelle, Laurent; Deliens, Tom; D'Hondt, Eva; Clarys, Peter								The Effect of a Tailored Intervention on Female Soccer Players' Hydration Status								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			131	140		10.2478/hukin-2021-0047131			MAR 2021	2021	Numerous studies have reported that athletes' pre-training/-game hydration status is of concern. Up to now, only two cohort studies have examined the effect of an intervention aimed at improving pre training/-game hydration status; however, without including a control group. Therefore, the aim of this quasi-experimental study was to examine whether and to what extent an individually tailored intervention focused on the benefits of being optimally hydrated before training or game would alter the hydration status of female soccer players. Two teams of young adult female soccer players were allocated to an intervention (n = 22; 19.8 +/- 3.0 years) or a control group (n = 15; 22.8 +/- 4.0 years). Players in the intervention group received an individually tailored intervention, based on Urine Specific Gravity (USG) measurements, which took place in between two training weeks. Before each training and match play, a urine sample was collected to determine players' hydration status. Mixed modelling was applied to assess within and between differences in hydration status over time. The pre-training/-game hydration status of the intervention group improved significantly, with players' mean USG-value decreasing from 1.013 +/- 0.001 g/mL to 1.008 +/- 0.002 g/mL (p = 0.005). In contrast, the mean USG-value in the control group increased significantly from 1.012 +/- 0.002 g/mL to 1.016 +/- 0.002 g/mL (p = 0.023), indicating a deterioration of their pre-training/-game hydration status. The individually tailored intervention did show a positive effect even though female soccer players in the present study were already reasonably well hydrated before the start of the intervention.		[Van Campenhout, Kristien; Chapelle, Laurent; Deliens, Tom; D'Hondt, Eva; Clarys, Peter] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Brussels, Belgium; [Deliens, Tom] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Physiotherapy Human Physiol & Anat, Brussels, Belgium; [Clarys, Peter] Erasmus Univ Coll, Brussels, Belgium; [Van Campenhout, Kristien] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Brussels, Belgium; [Van Campenhout, Kristien] Pleinlaan 2, B-1050 Pleinlaan, Belgium								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600013	30	Article; Article		
J	Haischer, Michael H.; Cooke, Daniel M.; Carzoli, Joseph P.; Johnson, Trevor K.; Shipherd, Amber M.; Zourdos, Michael C.								The Short Grit Scale (GRIT-S) does not Relate to Acute Muscular Endurance Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			263	269		10.2478/hukin-2021-0057			MAR 2021	2021	Grit has been previously presented as a personality trait that reflects an individual's perseverance of effort and consistency of interest for achieving their long-term goals. In resistance training this could mean that a "grittier" individual may perform more repetitions at a given intensity as they are better able to overcome metabolic and neuromuscular fatigue. Thus, the purpose of this study was to examine if grit was related to back squat muscular endurance performance. Fifty-eight resistance-trained males and females volunteered for participation (age = 23+3 yrs; body height = 172.53 + 8.64 cm; body mass = 80.64 + 6.49 kg). The grit of each participant was assessed via the Short Grit Scale (GRIT-S), and muscular endurance performance was tested via completion of a back squat set to volitional failure at 70% of the participant's one-repetition maximum. Spearman rho or Pearson's correlations, depending on normality, were used with 1000 bootstrapped replicate samples and revealed no relationship between GRIT-S scores (3.78 + 0.52) and repetitions performed (14 + 4) in a combined cohort of all 58 individuals (p =-0.051), males only (r = 0.057) or females only (p =-0.441). Supplementary investigation of the data also showed that the five "best" performers (i.e. the five individuals who performed the most repetitions) tended to have lower GRIT-S scores than the five "worst" performers. The results of the current study suggest that the GRIT-S has limited value in the context of muscular endurance performance. The skewed range of GRIT-S scores (2.75-5.0) observed in this investigation, also highlights the potential for social desirability to bias one's self-perception of grit.		[Haischer, Michael H.; Cooke, Daniel M.; Carzoli, Joseph P.; Johnson, Trevor K.; Zourdos, Michael C.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Lab, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA; [Shipherd, Amber M.] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Hlth & Kinesiol, Kingsville, TX USA; [Zourdos, Michael C.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, 777 Glades Rd,Field House 11A,Room 126A, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600025	27	Article; Article		
J	Laporta, Lorenzo; Araripe Medeiros, Alexandre Igor; Vargas, Nicole; Castro, Henrique de Oliveira; Bessa, Cristiana; Joao, Paulo Vicente; Teixeira Costa, Gustavo De Conti; Afonso, Jose								Coexistence of Distinct Performance Models in High-Level Women's Volleyball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				78	1			161	173		10.2478/hukin-2021-0048161			MAR 2021	2021	In performance analysis, and most notably in match analysis, generalizing game patterns in a sport or competition may result in formulating generic models and neglecting relevant variability in benefit of average or central values. Here, we aimed to understand how different game models can coexist at the same competitive level using social network analysis with degree centrality to obtain systemic mappings for six volleyball matches, one for each of the six national teams playing in the 2014 World Grand Prix Finals, guaranteeing a homogeneous game level and balanced matches. Although the sample was not recent, this was not relevant for our purposes, since we aimed to merely expose a proof of concept. A total of 56 sets and 7,176 ball possessions were analysed through Gephi Software, considering game actions as nodes and the interaction between them as edges. Results supported the coexistence of different performance models at the highest levels of practice, with each of the six teams presenting a very distinct game model. For example, important differences in eigenvector centrality in attack zones (ranging from 0 to 34) and tempos (20 to 38) were found between the six teams, as well as in defensive lines (20 to 39) and block opposition (22 to 37). This further suggests that there may be multiple pathways towards expert performance within any given sport, inviting a re-conceptualization of monolithic talent identification, detection and selection models. Future studies could benefit from standardizing the metrics in function of the number of ball possessions.		[Laporta, Lorenzo] Univ Reg Integrada Alto Uruguai & Missoes URI San, Batista Bonoto Sobrinho St, BR-97700000 Santiago, RS, Brazil; [Araripe Medeiros, Alexandre Igor] Univ Fed Ceara Ceara, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Vargas, Nicole; Bessa, Cristiana; Afonso, Jose] Univ Porto, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Castro, Henrique de Oliveira] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Dept Educ Fis, Cuiaba, Brazil; [Joao, Paulo Vicente] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro UTAD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Creat Lab, Vila Real, Portugal; [Teixeira Costa, Gustavo De Conti] Univ Fed Goias, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Laporta, Lorenzo] Univ Reg Integrada Alto Uruguai & Missoes URI San, Batista Bonoto Sobrinho St, BR-97700000 Santiago, RS, Brazil								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000681305600016	58	Article; Article		
J	Hobbins, Liam; Hunter, Steve; Gaoua, Nadia; Girard, Olivier								Short-Term Perceptually Regulated Interval-Walk Training in Hypoxia and Normoxia in Overweight-to-Obese Adults								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			45	51					MAR 2021	2021	We compared the effects of short-term, perceptually regulated training using interval-walking in hypoxia vs. normoxia on health outcomes in overweight-to-obese individuals. Sixteen adults (body mass index = 33 +/- 3 kg.m(-2)) completed eight interval-walk training sessions (15 x 2 min walking at a rating of perceived exertion of 14 on the 6-20 Borg scale; rest = 2 min) either in hypoxia (FiO(2) = 13.0%) or normoxia during two weeks. Treadmill velocity did not differ between conditions or over time (p > 0.05). Heart rate was higher in hypoxia (+10 +/- 3%; p = 0.04) during the first session and this was consistent within condition across the training sessions (p > 0.05). Similarly, arterial oxygen saturation was lower in hypoxia than normoxia (83 +/- 1% vs. 96 +/- 1%, p < 0.05), and did not vary over time (p > 0.05). After training, perceived mood state (+11.8 +/- 2.7%, p = 0.06) and exercise self-efficacy (+10.6 +/- 4.1%, p = 0.03) improved in both groups. Body mass (-p = 0.55), systolic and diastolic blood pressure (p = 0.19 and 0.07, respectively) and distance covered during a 6-min walk test (p = 0.11) did not change from pre- to post-tests. Short term (2-week) perceptually regulated interval-walk training sessions with or without hypoxia had no effect on exercise-related sensations, health markers and functional performance. This mode and duration of hypoxic conditioning does not appear to modify the measured cardiometabolic risk factors or improve exercise tolerance in overweight-to-obese individuals.		[Hobbins, Liam; Hunter, Steve; Gaoua, Nadia] London South Bank Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Ctr SESRC, London, England; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Crawley, WA, Australia								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600006	28	Article; Article		
J	Bellinger, Phillip M.; Newans, Timothy; Whalen, Mitchell; Minahan, Clare								Quantifying the Activity Profile of Female Beach Volleyball Tournament Match-Play								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			142	148					MAR 2021	2021	Effective time-motion analysis can provide information directly applicable to the design of physical conditioning and testing programmes. The aim of the present study was to determine the external output of female beach volleyball players during tournament match-play and to assess the effect of competition level, margin of score differential and alterations of external output within matches. The external output profile of ten adult level (age 27 +/- 3 y) and ten under 23 ('U23'; age 19 +/- 2 y) female beach volleyball players were determined using GPS technology (10 Hz) during 60 matches (n = 50 first and second sets and 20 third sets files) played during their respective Australian Beach Volleyball Championship tournaments. Comparisons between groups and the influence of contextual factors on the external output within matches were analysed using linear mixed models. Adult beach volleyball players covered a greater relative distance (i.e., in. min(-1)) in speed zone 2 (1.0-1.99 m. s(-1); 42.0% of total relative distance) and zone 3 (>= 2.0 m. s(-1); 10.9% of total relative distance) compared to U23 players. Relative distance, mean acceleration/deceleration and the relative distance covered in acceleration zone 2 and deceleration zone 2 and 3 was greater in set 1 compared to set 2. Sets that were decided by smaller score margins (<6-point score differential) were comprised of a greater relative distance, peak speed, greater mean acceleration and deceleration output and a greater relative distance in speed zone 1 and 3 compared to sets decided by larger score margins (>5-point score differential). The findings from this study suggest that there are contextual factors that influence the speed and acceleration/deceleration profile of female beach volleyball players such as tournament level, score margin and set-to-set variations that may have implications for the physiological and mechanical requirements of female players preparing for competition.		[Bellinger, Phillip M.; Newans, Timothy; Whalen, Mitchell; Minahan, Clare] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Griffith Sports Physiol & Performance, Gold Coast, Qld 4222, Australia; [Bellinger, Phillip M.; Newans, Timothy] Queensland Acad Sport, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Bellinger, Phillip M.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Gold Coast, Qld 4222, Australia								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600018	29	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Hongying; Zhang, Tao; Lu, Miaomiao; Zeng, YuXuan; Xiao, Yi; Ren, Xiaoling; Zhang, Pei								Effects of Physical Activity and Counselling Interventions on Health Outcomes among Working Women in Shanghai								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			77	85					MAR 2021	2021	Working women in Shanghai are a high-risk group of suffering work stress and burnout. Women have been found to be affected by work-family conflicts, which results in lower health-related quality of life (HRQoL), higher job stress, and burnout. This study evaluated the potential physical activity and counselling intervention effects on health outcomes of working women in Shanghai. Participants were randomly recruited from eight communities of Shanghai using the stratified cluster sampling method. A total of 121 female workers took part in this study, who were randomly divided into three groups: a control group and two intervention groups (individual-based and group-based intervention). The first intervention involved a moderate physical activity program and an individual based counselling intervention, while the second included the same physical activity program, but with a group counselling approach. Both interventions lasted 12 weeks. Subjective perceptions of work stress, burnout, and HRQoL were measured before and after the intervention. In the control group, the HRQoL value decreased after the intervention, with the mean value falling from 91.59 to 87.10, while there was no significant difference found between participants for stress (p = 0.752) and burnout (p = 0.622) before and after the intervention. After the intervention, the value of stress and burnout decreased, and the value of HRQoL increased in the two intervention groups. At the intervention's completion, there were significant differences compared between the two intervention groups and the control group separately regarding changes in burnout and HRQoL (all p = 0.000). For stress, the group-based intervention group exhibited a significant difference compared to the control group (p = 0.000), while the individual-based intervention group did not (p = 0.128). A Physical activity and counselling intervention delivered either in a group or individual format could reduce stress, burnout, and improve HRQoL of working women in Shanghai, and the group interventions were potentially more effective than those targeted at individuals.		[Wang, Hongying; Lu, Miaomiao; Zeng, YuXuan; Xiao, Yi; Ren, Xiaoling; Zhang, Pei] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Tao] Univ North Texas, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Xiao, Yi] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600011	48	Article; Article		
J	Garnacho-Castano, Manuel, V; Faundez-Zanuy, Marcos; Serra-Paya, Noemi; Mate-Munoz, Jose L.; Lopez-Xarbau, Josep; Vila-Blanch, Moises								Reliability and Validity of the Polar V800 Sports Watch for Estimating Vertical Jump Height								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			149	157					MAR 2021	2021	This study aimed to assess the reliability and validity of the Polar V800 to measure vertical jump height. Twenty-two physically active healthy men (age: 22.89 +/- 4.23 years; body mass: 70.74 +/- 8.04 kg; height: 1.74 +/- 0.76 m) were recruited for the study. The reliability was evaluated by comparing measurements acquired by the Polar V800 in two identical testing sessions one week apart. Validity was assessed by comparing measurements simultaneously obtained using a force platform (gold standard), high-speed camera and the Polar V800 during squat jump (SJ) and countermovement jump (CMJ) tests. In the test-retest reliability, high intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) were observed (mean: 0.90, SJ and CMJ) in the Polar V800. There was no significant systematic bias +/- random errors (p > 0.05) between test-retest. Low coefficients of variation (<5%) were detected in both jumps in the Polar V800. In the validity assessment, similar jump height was detected among devices (p > 0.05). There was almost perfect agreement between the Polar V800 compared to a force platform for the SJ and CMJ tests (Mean ICCs = 0.95; no systematic bias +/- random errors in SJ mean: -0.38 +/- 2.10 cm, p > 0.05). Mean ICC between the Polar V800 versus high-speed camera was 0.91 for the SJ and CMJ tests, however, a significant systematic bias +/- random error (0.97 +/- 2.60 cm; p = 0.01) was detected in CMJ test. The Polar V800 offers valid, compared to force platform, and reliable information about vertical jump height performance in physically active healthy young men.		[Garnacho-Castano, Manuel, V; Serra-Paya, Noemi] Pompeu Fabra Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, GRI AFIRS, Barcelona, Spain; [Faundez-Zanuy, Marcos; Lopez-Xarbau, Josep] Pompeu Fabra Univ, Polytech Sch, Barcelona, Spain; [Mate-Munoz, Jose L.] Alfonso X El Sabio Univ, Dept Phys Act & Sports Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Vila-Blanch, Moises] Higher Educ Ctr Palma de Mallorca, Dept Phys Act & Sports Sci, Palma De Mallorca, Spain; [Garnacho-Castano, Manuel, V] Pompeu Fabra Univ Ernest Lluch, TecnoCampus,32 Porta Laietana, Mataro 08302, Spain								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600019	41	Article; Article		
J	Herold, Mat; Kempe, Matthias; Bauer, Pascal; Meyer, Tim								Attacking Key Performance Indicators in Soccer: Current Practice and Perceptions from the Elite to Youth Academy Level								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			158	169					MAR 2021	2021	Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are used to evaluate the offensive success of a soccer team (e.g. penalty box entries) or player (e.g. pass completion rate). However, knowledge transfer from research to applied practice is understudied. The current study queried practitioners (n = 145, mean +/- SD age: 36 +/- 9 years) from 42 countries across different roles and levels of competition (National Team Federation to Youth Academy levels) on various forms of data collection, including an explicit assessment of twelve attacking KPIs. 64.3% of practitioners use data tools and applications weekly (predominately) to gather KPIs during matches. 83% of practitioners use event data compared to only 52% of practitioners using positional data, with a preference for shooting related KPIs. Differences in the use and value of metrics derived from positional tracking data (including Ball Possession Metrics) were evident between job role and level of competition. These findings demonstrate that practitioners implement KPIs and gather tactical information in a variety of ways with a preference for simpler metrics related to shots. The low perceived value of newer KPIs afforded by positional data could be explained by low buy-in, a lack of education across practitioners, or insufficient translation of findings by experts towards practice.		[Herold, Mat; Meyer, Tim] Saarland Univ, Inst Sports & Prevent Med, Campus B8-2, D-66123 Saarbrucken, Germany; [Kempe, Matthias] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Herold, Mat; Bauer, Pascal; Meyer, Tim] Deutsch Fussball Bund, Frankfurt, Germany; [Bauer, Pascal] Univ Tubingen, Data Sci & Sports Lab, Tubingen, Germany; [Herold, Mat] Saarland Univ, Inst Sports & Prevent Med, Campus B8-2, D-66123 Saarbrucken, Germany								45							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600020	86	Article; Article		
J	Stojanovic, Marko D. M.; Mikic, Mladen J.; Milosevic, Zoran; Vukovic, Jovan; Jezdimirovic, Tatjana; Vucetic, Vlatko								Effects of Chair-Based, Low-Load Elastic Band Resistance Training on Functional Fitness and Metabolic Biomarkers in Older Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			133	141					MAR 2021	2021	Strength training can improve myriad health parameters in elderly cohorts. Although potentially more appropriate for the elderly, low-load resistance training protocols have been less investigated. We aimed to examine the effects of 12 weeks of chairbased, low-load resistance training with elastic band (EBT) on functional fitness and metabolic biomarkers in older women. One hundred sixty-eight women were allocated randomly to an elastic band resistance training (EBT, n = 86, 75.7 +/- 8.9 years, 71.3 +/- 12.2 kg) or a control group (CON, n = 82, 74.5 +/- 8.2years, 70.6 +/- 12.0 kg). RT protocol consisted of periodized chair-based, low-load whole-body resistance exercises (2 sets, 12-15 repetitions, 40-60% of one repetition maximum-1RM) using an elastic band, twice weekly for 12 weeks. The resistance training program was generally designed to maintain internal load over time, provided with increasing intensity using various elastic bands (Thera-Band). Functional fitness (30-s Chair Stand,30-s Aim Curl, 2-min Step Test, Chair Sit-and-Reach, Back Scratch, 8-Foot Up-and-Go, Handgrip Strength) and metabolic markers (Fasting blood glucose, triglycerides, total cholesterol, high (HDL) and low (LDL) density lipoprotein) were measured before and after the training period. To detect pre/post intervention changes and between group- differences 2x2 repeated measures ANOVA was applied. Significant improvements over time for all fitness variables for EBT comparing to CON were obtained (F = 12.78, p < 0.05 for 30-s Chair Stand; F = 14.04, p < 0.05 for 30-s Arm Curl; F = 5.18, p < 0.05 for 2-min Step Test; F = 10.90, p < 0.05 for Chair Sit-and-Reach; F = 16.57, p < 0.05 for Back Scratch; F = 11.79,p < 0.05 for 8-foot Up-and-Go; and F = 29.25,p < 0.05 for Handgrip Strength). In addition, significant improvements over time for all but one (triglycerides) biomarkers for EBT comparing to CON were obtained (F = 7.30, p < 0.05 for blood sugar levels; F = 13.36, p < 0.05 for total cholesterol; F = 8.61, p < 0.05 for HDL; and F = 11.53, p < 0.05 for LDL). Furthermore, the participants' adherence to training sessions of over 90% was reported. In conclusion, 12 weeks of EBT is safe and beneficial for improving health-related fitness and metabolic biomarkers in older women and seems to be viable model to ensure a high training adherence rate.		[Stojanovic, Marko D. M.; Mikic, Mladen J.; Milosevic, Zoran; Vukovic, Jovan; Jezdimirovic, Tatjana] Univ Novi Sad, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Stojanovic, Marko D. M.; Mikic, Mladen J.] Univ Novi Sad, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Adv Rehab & Conditioning Lab, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Vucetic, Vlatko] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Zagreb, Croatia; [Stojanovic, Marko D. M.] Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Lovcenska 16, Novi Sad 21000, Serbia								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600017	67	Article; Article		
J	Moghaddaszadeh, Asal; Belcastro, Angelo N.								Guided Active Play Promotes Physical Activity and Improves Fundamental Motor Skills for School-Aged Children								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			86	93					MAR 2021	2021	Reports show that children's physical activity (PA) levels are related to FMS proficiency; however, whether PA levels directly improve FMS is uncertain. This study investigated the responses of PA levels and FMS proficiency to active play (AP) and guided active play (GAP) interventions. Three community programs (seven-weeks; 4d wk(-1)) were randomly assigned to: i) active play (CON); ii) locomotor skills (LOC) guided active play (GAP); and iii) object control skills (OC) GAP groups. Children's (n = 52; 6.5 (0.9) yr) interventions included continuous and/or intermittent cooperative games focused on either locomotor skills (i.e. blob tag, red-light-green-light) or object control skills i.e., hot potato, racket balloons, 4-way soccer). PA levels (accelerometers) were assessed on 2 of 4 sessions per week throughout the program. The Test of Gross Motor Development-2 (TGMD-2) was used to assess FMS scores. The changes for CON and LOC interventions for locomotor standard scores were -0.83 (2.61) vs. 2.6 (2.64) (alpha = 0.022), for locomotor percentiles -9.08 (36.7) vs. 20.1 (30.4) (alpha = 0.033) and for gross motor quotient percentiles -4.3 (30.3) vs. 24.1 (29.6) (alpha = 0.022). Children's PA levels averaged 158.6 (6.6) kcal 55min(-1) for CON vs. 174.5 (28.3) kcal.55min(-1 )for LOC (alpha = 0.089) and 170.0 (20.1) kcal 55min(-1) for OC (alpha = 0.144). Moderate-Vigorous PA was 18.4 (8.0) %, 47.9 (7.8) % (alpha = 0.000) and 51.9 (6.0) % (alpha = 0.000) for CON, LOC and OC, while time at sedentary/very light PA was 36.4 (9.8) %, 15.1 (4.9) % (alpha = 0.000) and 14.9 (15.9) %Sed/VL (alpha = 0.001) during the 7week program. The OC intervention showed more upper body movement experiences compared to the LOC program (p = 0.020). A guided active play program using LOC cooperative games showed increases in energy expenditure and %MVPA and improved FMS proficiency, but active play did not. For school+aged children (5-7 yr) guided active play using cooperative games may be an effective strategy to improve FMS and promote health and fitness benefits.		[Belcastro, Angelo N.] York Univ, Pediat Exercise Sci Lab, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Belcastro, Angelo N.] York Univ, Muscle Hlth Res Ctr, Fac Hlth, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Belcastro, Angelo N.] York Univ, Pediat Exercise Sci Lab, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Belcastro, Angelo N.] York Univ, Muscle Hlth Res Ctr, Fac Hlth, Toronto, ON, Canada								37							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600012	36	Article; Article		
J	de Albuquerque, Luis Rogerio; Scheeren, Eduardo Mendonca; Vagetti, Gislaine Cristina; de Oliveira, Valdomiro								Influence of the Coach's Method and Leadership Profile on the Positive Development of Young Players in Team Sports								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			9	16					MAR 2021	2021	In a time of instability caused by adolescence, sport may represent a resource to prevent future individual and social problems. Within the complex relationships developed in social sports contexts, the figure of the coach can be fundamental for the development of a beneficial environment. The objective of the research was to investigate the relationship between the teaching methods and leadership profile of the coach and outcomes on the perception of positive development of young people participating in an after school sports program. In total participated, 910 adolescents (14.0 +/- 1.8 years) and 57 coaches (45.57 +/- 7.25 years) in 37 public schools in the city of Curitiba, in the state of Parana-Brazil. Ordinal logistic regression was used to verify the independent associations between the variables sex, category, sport, trainer methodology, perception of the coaches, and perception of the athletes with the tertiles of the scores of each developmental characteristic of the young athletes (personal and social skills, cognitive skills, goal setting, and initiative). Odds ratios (OR) were obtained with a 95% confidence interval (95%CI), adopting p < 0.05. The small sized games method were positively associated with cognitive skills and goal setting. Positive associations were also found between athletes' perceptions of the leadership profile of coaches with: personal and social skills (instructor, democratic behaviour, social support, and positive feedback), cognitive skills (instructor, democratic behaviour, and social support), goal setting (instructor, social support, and positive feedback), and initiative (instructor and positive feedback). In addition, the athletes' perception of the coaches' autocratic behaviour was inversely associated with personal and social skills and goal setting. For the evaluated program, the results suggest the choice, on the part of the coaches, of small sized games, combined with a democratic, affective, motivating leadership profile that provides instructions on technical skills and game strategies. The combination of the designated psych-pedagogical aspects is correlated to the positive development of young people through team sports.		[de Albuquerque, Luis Rogerio; Vagetti, Gislaine Cristina; de Oliveira, Valdomiro] Univ Fed Parana, Grad Program Educ, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Scheeren, Eduardo Mendonca] Pontificia Univ Catolica Parana, Grad Program Technol Hlth, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [de Albuquerque, Luis Rogerio] Univ Fed Parana, Grad Program Educ, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600002	34	Article; Article		
J	Coimbra, Danilo R.; Bevilacqua, Guilherme G.; Pereira, Fabiano S.; Andrade, Alexandro								Effect of Mindfulness Training on Fatigue and Recovery in Elite Volleyball Athletes: A Randomized Controlled Follow-Up Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			1	8					MAR 2021	2021	Volleyball is a team sport with high physical and perceptual-cognitive demand, hence, increasing the perception of physical and mental fatigue during a competition. To alleviate fatigue (physical and mental), mindfulness and music have been proposed. The aim of this study was to analyze the effect of mindfulness-based mental versus music training on mental fatigue, physical fatigue, and recovery in elite competitive female volleyball athletes using a randomized two-controlled study with follow-up. Participants were 30 elite female Brazilian volleyball athletes. Athletes were randomly assigned to the following groups: 1) mindfulness-based mental training group (MBMT); 2) music-based training group (MBT); or 3) control group (CG). Three variables were evaluated as follows: 1) recovery based on total quality recovery; 2) mental fatigue visual analog scale; and 3) physical fatigue visual analog scale. Regarding recovery, there was no difference between the MBMT, MBT, and CG groups (p > 0.05). A difference in mental fatigue was noted between MBT and CG at follow-up [F(2,26) = 5.71, p = 0.009; large]. Regarding physical fatigue, there was no difference between the MBMT, MBT, and CG groups (p > 0.05). The mindfulness intervention effectively attenuated the mental fatigue caused by competition in volleyball athletes. These results will assist coaches and staff in providing fatigue management and reinforce the applicability of mental training in sports.		[Coimbra, Danilo R.] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Life Sci Inst, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Bevilacqua, Guilherme G.; Pereira, Fabiano S.; Andrade, Alexandro] Santa Catarina State Univ, Ctr Hlth & Sports Sci, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Andrade, Alexandro] Santa Catarina State Univ, Pascoal Simone 358, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								51							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600001	38	Article; Article		
J	Xu, Minxiao; Wu, Zhaozhao; Dong, Yanan; Qu, Chaoyi; Xu, Yaoduo; Qin, Fei; Wang, Zhongwei; Nassis, George P.; Zhao, Jiexiu								A Mixed-Method Approach of Pre-Cooling Enhances High-Intensity Running Performance in the Heat								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			26	34					MAR 2021	2021	We investigated whether single or combined methods of precooling could affect high-intensity exercise performance in a hot environment. Seven male athletes were subjected to four experimental conditions for 30 min in a randomised order. The four experimental conditions were: 1) wearing a vest cooled to a temperature of 4 degrees C (Vest), 2) consuming a beverage cooled to a temperature of 4 degrees C (Beverage), 3) simultaneous usage of vest and consumption of beverage (Mix), and 4) the control trial without precooling (CON). Following those experimental conditions, they exercised at a speed of 80% VO(2)max until exhaustion in the heat (38.1 +/- 0.6 degrees C, 55.3 +/- 0.3% RH). Heart rate (HR), rectal temperature (T-core), skin temperature (T-skin), sweat loss (SL), urine specific gravity (USG), levels of sodium (Na+) and potassium (K+), rating of perceived exertion (RPE), thermal sensation (TS), and levels of blood lactic acid ([Bla]) were monitored. Performance was improved using the mixed pre-cooling strategy (648.43 +/- 77.53 s, p = 0.016) compared to CON (509.14 +/- 54.57 s). T-core after pre-cooling was not different (Mix: 37.01 +/- 0.27 degrees C, Vest: 37.19 +/- 0.33 degrees C, Beverage: 37.03 +/- 0.35 degrees C) in all cooling conditions compared to those of CON (37.31 +/- 0.29 degrees C). A similar T-core values was achieved at exhaustion in all trials (from 38.10 degrees C to 39.00 degrees C). No difference in the level of USG was observed between the conditions. Our findings suggest that pre-cooling with a combination of cold vest usage and cold fluid intake can improve performance in the heat.		[Xu, Minxiao; Wang, Zhongwei] Shanghai Univ Sports, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Xu, Minxiao; Wu, Zhaozhao; Qu, Chaoyi; Qin, Fei; Wang, Zhongwei; Zhao, Jiexiu] China Inst Sport Sci, Exercise Biol Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Qu, Chaoyi] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Dong, Yanan] Beijing Inst Sport Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Qin, Fei] Jinan Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wu, Zhaozhao] Northwest Univ, Phys Educ Dept, Xian, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yaoduo] Northwestern Polytech Univ, Phys Educ Dept, Xian, Peoples R China; [Nassis, George P.] United Arab Emirates Univ, Phys Educ Dept CEDU, Abu Dhabi, U Arab Emirates; [Nassis, George P.] Univ Southern Denmark, SDU Sport & Hlth Sci Cluster, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Odense, Denmark; [Zhao, Jiexiu] China Inst Sport Sci, 11 Tiyuguan Rd, Beijing, Peoples R China								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600004	58	Article; Article		
J	Kobayakawa, Akinori; Hiraiwa, Hideki; Ishizuka, Shinya; Yamashita, Satoshi; Oba, Hiroki; Kawamura, Yusuke; Sakaguchi, Takefumi; Idota, Masaru; Haga, Takahiro; Mizuno, Takafumi; Kawashima, Itaru; Kuriyama, Kanae; Imagama, Shiro								Spontaneous Pneumomediastinum in an Adolescent Soccer Player								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			52	55					MAR 2021	2021	Spontaneous pneumomediastinum (SPM) is an uncommon and usually benign self-limiting clinical disorder found in young people, often without apparent precipitating factors or diseases. A pressure gradient exists between the peripheral pulmonary alveoli and the hilum, and increased intra-alveolar pressure causes rupture of the terminal alveoli. We present the case of a 15-year-old male soccer player who presented with a complaint of anterior chest pain and dysphagia after stopping the strong ball with his chest. His symptom gradually progressed over hours. We can make the diagnosis of SPM using by chest X-ray and computed tomography (CT) scanning. His symptoms were gradually resolved over the course of approximately one week with no exercise and careful observation. We believe that our case provides very useful information to alert clinicians and coaches regarding this rare disease that may occur in anyone including adolescent soccer players.		[Kobayakawa, Akinori; Hiraiwa, Hideki; Ishizuka, Shinya; Yamashita, Satoshi; Oba, Hiroki; Kawamura, Yusuke; Sakaguchi, Takefumi; Idota, Masaru; Haga, Takahiro; Mizuno, Takafumi; Kawashima, Itaru; Kuriyama, Kanae; Imagama, Shiro] Nagoya Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Ishizuka, Shinya] Nagoya Univ, Grad Sch Med, Showa Ku, 65 Tsurumaicho, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600007	21	Article; Article		
J	Scarborough, Donna Moxley; Leonard, Nicholas K.; Mayer, Lucas W.; Oh, Luke S.; Berkson, Eric M.								The Association of Baseball Pitch Delivery and Kinematic Sequence on Stresses at the Shoulder and Elbow Joints								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	1			94	100					MAR 2021	2021	Although there is a commonly held belief within the baseball community that delivery from the stretch confers more stress at the elbow and shoulder joints than delivery from the windup, there remains little evidence in the literature investigating this hypothesis. This study aimed to help address this gap in the literature by studying both intra-pitcher kinematic sequence variability, and intra-pitcher joint torque variability when throwing from the windup vs. the stretch. We hypothesized that 1) each pitchers' kinematic sequence would remain similar whether throwing from the windup or stretch, and 2) Kinematic sequence would influence peak arm torque more than delivery method. This cross-sectional 3D biomechanical study included 88 pitches thrown by ten (6 collegiate, 4 high school) pitchers with a mean age of 17.60 +/- 2.63 years. Pitch velocity, throwing shoulder/elbow torques and the kinematic sequence of each pitch utilizing segmental peak angular velocities were captured. No statistically significant differences in ball velocity (p = 0.17), peak shoulder external rotation torque (p = 0.80), shoulder extension torque (p = 0.97), or elbow valgus torque (p = 0.83) were found between delivery approaches. Three primary kinematic sequences were identified. Shoulder external rotation torque [F(53,2) = 10.992, eta(2) = .293, p < 0.00], shoulder extension torque [F(53,2) = 15.517, eta(2) = .369, p < 0.00] and elbow valgus torque [F(53,2) = 9.994, eta(2) = .274, p < 0.00] did vary significantly across these three kinematic sequence patterns. Our data suggest that the kinematic sequence influences shoulder and elbow torque more than the delivery approach. Instructing ideal kinematic sequence may be more influential for injury avoidance than delivery method.		[Scarborough, Donna Moxley; Leonard, Nicholas K.; Mayer, Lucas W.; Oh, Luke S.; Berkson, Eric M.] Harvard Med Sch, Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Sports Med Serv, Boston, MA USA; [Scarborough, Donna Moxley] MGH Inst Hlth Profess, Boston, MA USA; [Scarborough, Donna Moxley] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, MGH Sports Med Serv, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 175 Cambridge St,Floor 4, Boston, MA 02114 USA								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000613352600013	16	Article; Article		
J	Biese, Kevin M.; Stamm, Julie M.; Wichman, Daniel M.; Hetzel, Scott J.; Post, Eric G.; Bell, David R.								Association of lower extremity injuries and injury mechanism with previous concussion history in adolescent athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				76	82		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.018			MAR 2021	2021	Objective: Determine the association between concussion and subsequent contact, non-contact, and overuse lower extremity (LE) injuries in a cohort of adolescent athletes. Secondarily, to identify this association between males and females. Study design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Summer athletic events with participants ages 12-18. Main outcome: Anonymous survey included sport-related injuries (injury month/year) and participants classified injuries as a contact, non-contact, overuse injury, or concussion. Multivariable logistic regression analyses were used to examine associations between a concussion event and a subsequent LE injury while controlling for age and any previous LE injury. Results: A concussion was reported in 219 athletes (Female = 96, 44%) and were matched with 219 non concussed athletes (438 total participants). Concussion was not association with a specific injury mechanism but was significant for any subsequent LE injury (OR = 1.58 95%CI = [1.03-2.41]; p < 0.05). Concussed females were more likely to report any subsequent LE injury compared to non-concussed female athletes (2.49[1.31, 4.74]; p < 0.01). This relationship was not observed between concussed and non-concussed males (1.11[0.62-1.99]; p > 0.5). Conclusion: A history of concussion was associated with any subsequent LE injury, but not associated with a specific mechanism of injury. The association with concussion and a subsequent LE injury was different between males and females. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.YY		[Biese, Kevin M.; Stamm, Julie M.; Wichman, Daniel M.; Bell, David R.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Kinesiol, Madison, WI USA; [Hetzel, Scott J.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Biostat & Med Informat, Madison, WI USA; [Post, Eric G.] Indiana State Univ, Dept Appl Med & Rehabil, Terre Haute, IN 47809 USA; [Biese, Kevin M.] Dept Kinesiol, 1300 Univ Ave, Madison, WI 53706 USA								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700010	57	Article; Article		
J	Li, Yinuo; Tsang, Raymond Chi-Chung; Liu, Dongsen; Ruan, Bing; Yu, Yue; Gao, Qi								Applicability of cutoff scores of Chinese Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool and Foot and Ankle Ability Measure as inclusion criteria for study of chronic ankle instability in Chinese individuals								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				116	120		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.021			MAR 2021	2021	Objective: To examine the applicability of Chinese Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT-C) and Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM-C) as inclusion criteria recommended by the International Ankle Consortium (IAC) for study of chronic ankle instability in the Chinese individuals. Design: Cross-sectional comparative design with known groups. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: 145 participants with chronic ankle instability (CAI) and 66 participants without injury. Main outcome measures: CAIT-C and FAAM-C Activities of Daily Living (FAAM-C-ADL) and FAAM-C Sports (FAAM-C-Sports). Results: The CAIT-C scores (18.2 +/- 5.6), FAAM-C-ADL scores (97.0 +/- 4.3) and FAAM-C-Sports scores (92.2 +/- 10.3) of the CAI group were all lower than the CAIT-C scores (27.4 +/- 3.1), FAAM-ADL scores (99.0 +/- 2.1) and FAAM-Sports scores (98.4 +/- 3.1) (P < 0.01) of the uninjured group. The recommended cutoff score of CAIT-C<24 by the IAC for identifying CAI had a sensitivity of 80.7% and a specificity of 84.9%. If the recommended cutoff scores of FAAM-ADL<90,FAAM-Sports<80 by the IAC as inclusion criteria for the study of CAI were applied, 97% of participants with CAI in this sample would be excluded. Conclusion: The results support the recommended cutoff score of CAIT-C<24 by the IAC to identify Chinese individuals with CAI for study. However, the recommended cutoff scores of FAAM-ADL<90 and FAAM-Sports<80 will exclude most Chinese individuals with CAI having only mild functional impairments. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Li, Yinuo; Liu, Dongsen; Ruan, Bing; Yu, Yue; Gao, Qi] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Med & Rehabil, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Tsang, Raymond Chi-Chung] MacLehose Med Rehabil Ctr, Physiotherapy Dept, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Gao, Qi] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Med & Rehabil, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700015	34	Article; Article		
J	Kaur, Mandeep; Ribeiro, Daniel Cury; Lamb, Peter; Webster, Kate E.; Sole, Gisela								Low knee-related quality of life and persistent physical asymmetries in participants up to 10 years post-ACL reconstruction - A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				35	42		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.011			MAR 2021	2021	Objective: To compare self-report and functional outcomes between participants with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) with age and activity matched controls. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University laboratory-based study. Participants: Twenty-five participants (30.8 +/- 9.7 years; 13 women), two to ten years post anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction; 24 controls (31.0 +/- 10 years, 13 women). Main outcome measures: Knee Osteoarthritis and Injury Outcome Score (KOOS), Tegner, Marx Activity and Fear of Re-injury scales, and SF-12; isokinetic quadriceps and hamstring peak torque and single-leg hop distance. Results: There were no between-groups differences for the Tegner and the Marx Activity Scales. The ACLR group had lower KOOS dimensions (p < 0.001), SF-12 Physical Component Scores (p = 0.008), and higher Fear of Reinjury Scores (<0.001) than the controls. No significant differences were found for physical performance measures between the ACLR and the control groups. Significant between-side differences for the ACLR group were evident for concentric quadriceps (p < 0.001) and concentric hamstring peak torque (p = 0.002), and hop distance (p < 0.001). Conclusion: Knee-specific symptoms and function, activity and quality of life were lower, and fear of re injury was higher for participants with ACLR than controls. Side-to-side thigh muscle strength and hop distance deficits were evident for the ACLR group. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kaur, Mandeep; Ribeiro, Daniel Cury; Sole, Gisela] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Sch Physiotherapy, Dunedin 9010, New Zealand; [Lamb, Peter] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Webster, Kate E.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Kaur, Mandeep] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Sole, Gisela] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Sch Physiotherapy, Dunedin 9010, New Zealand								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700005	62	Article; Article		
J	Smyth, Erin; Waddington, Gordon; Witchalls, Jeremy; Newman, Phillip; Weissensteiner, Juanita; Hughes, Steven; Niyonsenga, Theo; Drew, Michael								Does ankle tape improve proprioception acuity immediately after application and following a netball session? A randomised controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				20	25		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.010			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: To assess whether ankle tape applied by a Sport and Exercise Physiotherapist (SEP) or self-applied by the athlete results in a change in proprioception and whether it is maintained during a netball session. Design: Randomised controlled trial. Setting: Australian Institute of Sport. Participants: 53 pre-elite netball athletes. Main outcome measures: Athlete proprioception was assessed using the Active Movement Extent Discrimination Apparatus (AMEDA) on four occasions for each taping condition: 1) pre-tape, 2) post-tape, 3) post-netball & 4) post-netball no-tape. Results: Mixed effect linear models were used for analysis. A significant increase in proprioception was observed when self-tape: 0.022 (95% CI: [-0.000 0.044], p = 0.05), and SEP tape: 0.034 (95% CI: [0.012-0.055], p < 0.01), were initially applied. These improvements were maintained during a netball session for both, self-taping: 0.01 (95% CI: [-0.01 0.02], p = 0.45) and SEP-taping: <0.01 (95% CI: [-0.02 0.01], p = 0.56). Results also indicate there was no significant difference between taping conditions (beta = -0.001, 95% CI: [-0.02 0.02], p = 0.90). Conclusions: Proprioception improves and is maintained during a netball session with either SEP or self applied taping. Crown Copyright (C) 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Smyth, Erin; Waddington, Gordon; Witchalls, Jeremy; Newman, Phillip] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bldg 29, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Smyth, Erin; Waddington, Gordon; Drew, Michael] Australian Inst Sport, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Weissensteiner, Juanita] New South Wales Off Sport, Sport Dev Grp, Level 3,6B Figtree Dr,Sydney Olymp Pk, Sydney, NSW 2127, Australia; [Hughes, Steven] New South Wales Inst Sport, Bdg B,Level 1,6 Figtree Dr,Sydney Olymp Pk, Sydney, NSW 2127, Australia; [Niyonsenga, Theo] Univ Canberra, Hlth Res Inst, Locked Bag 1, Bruce, ACT 2601, Australia; [Smyth, Erin] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bldg 29, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700003	33	Article; Article		
J	Gogate, Neha; Satpute, Kiran; Hall, Toby								The effectiveness of mobilization with movement on pain, balance and function following acute and sub acute inversion ankle sprain-A randomized, placebo controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				91	100		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.016			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: To determine the effect of mobilization with movement (MWM) on pain, ankle mobility and function in patients with acute and sub-acute grade I and II inversion ankle sprain. Study design: Randomized placebo controlled trial. Setting: A general hospital. Subjects: 32 adults with inversion ankle sprain. Main outcome measures: The primary outcome was pain intensity on an 11 point Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) with higher score indicating greater pain intensity. Ankle disability identified by the Foot and Ankle Disability index (FADI) with higher score indicating lower disability, functional ankle dorsiflexion range, pressure pain threshold, and dynamic balance measured with the Y balance test were secondary outcomes. Results: Thirty participants completed the study. At each follow-up point, significant differences were found between groups favouring those receiving MWM for all variables. Pain intensity showed a mean difference of 1.7 points (95% confidence interval, 1.4 to 2.1) and 0.9 points (95% confidence interval, 0.5 to 1.3) at one and six-months follow-up respectively. Benefits were also shown for FADI, ankle mobility, pressure pain threshold and balance. Conclusion: This study provides preliminary data for the benefits of MWM for acute and sub-acute ankle sprain in terms of pain, ankle mobility, disability and balance. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Gogate, Neha; Satpute, Kiran] Smt Kashibai Navale Coll Physiotherapy, Dept Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy, Pune, Maharashtra, India; [Hall, Toby] Curtin Univ, Sch Physiotherapy & Exercise Sci, POB U1987, Perth, WA 6845 USA; [Satpute, Kiran] Smt Kashibai Navale Coll Physiotherapy, Dept Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy, Pune, Maharashtra, India								31							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700012	45	Article; Article		
J	Warne, Joe P.; Gruber, Allison H.; Cheung, Roy; Bonacci, Jason								Training and technique choices predict self-reported running injuries: An international study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				83	90		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.017			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: The aim of this study was to describe the self-reported injury, training, and running technique choices of regular runners in four international regions. Design and setting: 756 participants began an expert derived self-report online survey in Ireland, USA, Hong Kong and Australia. Participants: 325 participants completed the survey (age = 38 +/- 10 years; weight = 68.0 +/- 13.1 kg; height = 1.70 +/- 0.10 m). Main outcome measures: Descriptive statistics are reported examining injury incidence and location; shoe and orthosis choices; and training and technique practices. A backwards logistic regression was implemented to examine associations between injury and training choices. Results: 68.3% reported having an injury in the last year. 81.45% of these injuries were believed to be running related. A large variation in training and footwear choices were observed for respondents. The regression (P < 0.001) explained 20% of the variance in injury selection (Nagelkerke R2) and was able to identify 73% of cases accurately. Associated injury factors included competitive running, running on more than one surface, younger age, having a lower running age, and a higher proportion of running at an easy intensity. Conclusions: The high amount of variability in runner's choices highlights the lack of consistent information being presented to them and may be the reason for the high injury incidence. (C) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Warne, Joe P.] Technol Univ Dublin, Dept Appl Sci, Tallaght Campus, Dublin, Ireland; [Warne, Joe P.] Setanta Coll, Thurles Chamber Commerce, Tipperary, Ireland; [Gruber, Allison H.] Indiana Univ, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN USA; [Cheung, Roy] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Cheung, Roy] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Campbelltown, NSW 2560, Australia; [Bonacci, Jason] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sports Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Waurn Ponds, Vic 3216, Australia; [Warne, Joe P.] Technol Univ Dublin, Tallaght Campus,Blessington Rd, Dublin 9, Ireland								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700011	50	Article; Article		
J	Feger, Mark A.; Donovan, Luke; Herb, C. Collin; Hart, Joseph M.; Saliba, Susan A.; Abel, Mark F.; Hertel, Jay								Effects of 4-week impairment-based rehabilitation on jump-landing biomechanics in chronic ankle instability patients								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				201	208		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.07.005			MAR 2021	2021	Objective: To determine effects of 4-weeks of impairment-based rehabilitation on lower extremity neuromechanics during jump-landing. Design: Descriptive laboratory study. Participants: Twenty-six CAI subjects (age = 21.4 +/- 3.1 sex=(M = 7,F = 19), height = 169.0 +/- 8.8 cm, weight = 71.0 +/- 13.8 kg) completed 15 jump-landing trials prior to and following 12 supervised rehabilitation sessions. Main outcome measures: Frontal and sagittal lower extremity kinematics and kinetics and sEMG amplitudes (anterior tibialis, peroneus brevis, peroneus longus, and medial gastrocnemius). Means and 90% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated for 100 ms prior to and 200 ms following ground contact. Areas where preand post-rehabilitation CIs did not overlap were considered significantly different. Kinematic and kinetic peaks and kinematic excursion were compared with paired t-test (P <= 0.05). Results: Following rehabilitation, CAI subjects exhibited less ankle (2.1 degrees (0.8, 3.4), P < 0.01) and hip (2.0 degrees (0.5, 3.7), P = 0.01) frontal plane excursion and lower peak hip abduction (2.5 degrees (0.0, 5.0), P = 0.05). There was less ankle (5.0 degrees (1.7, 8.3), P < 0.01) and knee (3.4 degrees (0.8, 6.0), P = 0.01) sagittal plane excursion following rehabilitation. There was decreased peroneus longus activity from 9 ms to 135 ms post ground contact and decreased peak plantar flexion moment (0.08 N*m/kg (0.01, 0.13), P = 0.02) following rehabilitation. Conclusion: Progressive impairment-based rehabilitation resulted in reductions in kinematic excursion and peroneus longus muscle activity, suggesting a more efficient landing strategy. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Feger, Mark A.; Hart, Joseph M.; Saliba, Susan A.; Hertel, Jay] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Donovan, Luke] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Dept Kinesiol, Charlotte, NC USA; [Hart, Joseph M.; Abel, Mark F.] Univ Virginia, Dept Orthoped Surg, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Herb, C. Collin] Northern Kentucky Univ, Sch Kinesiol Counseling & Rehabil Sci, Highland Hts, KY USA; [Feger, Mark A.] Mem Gymnasium, POB 400407, Charlottesville, VA 22904 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700025	42	Article; Article		
J	Nasser, Anthony M.; Pizzari, Tania; Grimaldi, Alison; Vicenzino, Bill; Rio, Ebonie; Semciw, Adam Ivan								Proximal hamstring tendinopathy; expert physiotherapists' perspectives on diagnosis, management and prevention								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				67	75		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.008			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: To explore and summarise expert physiotherapists' perceptions on their assessment, management and prevention of proximal hamstring tendinopathy (PHT). Methods: We conducted semi-structured interviews with expert physiotherapists until data saturation was met (n = 13). Interviews were transcribed verbatim and data were analysed systematically and organised into categories and sub-categories according to study aims. Results: Experts report using a clinical reasoning-based approach, incorporating information from the patient interview and results of clinical load-based provocation tests, in the physical examination to diagnose PHT. Experts manage the condition through education and progressive loading targeting the hamstring unit and kinetic chain, avoiding provocative activities in positions of compression in early-mid stage rehab and a gradated and controlled return to sport. Passive therapies including injection therapies and surgery were believed to have limited utility. Prevention of recurrence primarily involved continuation of hamstring and kinetic chain strengthening programs and management of physical workload. Conclusion: Experts rely on a combination of information from the patient interview and a battery of pain provocation tests to diagnose PHT. Education and graded exercise of the hamstring group and synergists, minimising early exposure to hip flexion, were the foundation of management of the condition. Crown Copyright (C) 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Nasser, Anthony M.; Pizzari, Tania; Rio, Ebonie; Semciw, Adam Ivan] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sports & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Grimaldi, Alison; Vicenzino, Bill] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Semciw, Adam Ivan] Northern Hlth, Northern Ctr Hlth Educ & Res, Epping, Vic, Australia; [Nasser, Anthony M.] Univ Technol Sydney, Grad Sch Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Nasser, Anthony M.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sports & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700009	22	Article; Article		
J	Popchak, Adam; Poploski, Kathleen; Patterson-Lynch, Brittany; Nigolian, Jacob; Lin, Albert								Reliability and validity of a return to sports testing battery for the shoulder								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				1	11		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.003			MAR 2021	2021	Objective: To determine the validity, intra- and inter-rater, and absolute reliability of a return to sport testing battery for the shoulder in a healthy cohort. Design: Cross-sectional design. All participants completed a battery of strength (isokinetic, isometric, and repetition to failure) and functional assessments on two occasions. Concurrent validity to isokinetic testing was assessed, and intra-rater, inter-rater, and absolute reliability were established for all assessments. Setting: Controlled clinical environment. Participants: Thirty healthy adults active in recreational sports participated, mean age 24.0 +/- 1.6 years; Main outcome measures: Correlations (Pearson's r), reliability (Intraclass Correlation Coefficient), Standard error of the measurement, Minimal detectable change. Results: Correlations to isokinetic assessments at 60 degrees & 180 degrees/second were moderate to strong for isometric (r: 0.68-0.80) and functional testing (r: 0.55-0.83) and weak for repetition to failure testing (r: 0.37-0.74). All isokinetic (ICC: 0.88-0.94), isometric (ICC: 0.83-0.94), and functional assessments (ICC: 0.80-0.92) had good to excellent intra-rater reliability, while repetition to failure testing had poor to moderate reliability (ICC: 0.48-0.57). The inter-rater reliability of the isometric assessments was moderate to excellent (ICC: 0.71-0.92) across movements. Expressed as a percentage of the mean, the standard error of the measurement ranged from 7% to 25% and the minimal detectable change ranged from 20% to 69% across all assessment methods. Conclusion: The isokinetic, isometric, and functional assessments used in this return to sports testing battery demonstrates acceptable validity and reliability. Further refinement to the methods used to assess muscular endurance is needed to improve reliability. This study offers clinicians information that can be utilized in clinical decision-making as it relates the testing battery's psychometric properties. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Popchak, Adam; Poploski, Kathleen] Univ Pittsburgh, Dept Phys Therapy, Bridgeside Point 1,100 Technol Dr,Suite 210, Pittsburgh, PA 15219 USA; [Patterson-Lynch, Brittany; Nigolian, Jacob] UPMC Ctr Sports Med, Ctr Rehab Serv, Rooney Sports Complex,3200 South Water St, Pittsburgh, PA 15219 USA; [Lin, Albert] Univ Pittsburgh, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 3200 South Water St, Pittsburgh, PA 15219 USA; [Lin, Albert] UPMC Ctr Sports Med, 3200 South Water St, Pittsburgh, PA 15219 USA; [Patterson-Lynch, Brittany] Penn Sports Med Ctr, GSPP Penn Therapy & Fitness, 330 S 9th St, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Nigolian, Jacob] Orthoped One Therapy Serv, 3600 Stelzer Rd, Columbus, OH 43219 USA; [Popchak, Adam] Univ Pittsburgh, Dept Phys Therapy, Bridgeside Point 1,100 Technol Dr,Suite 210, Pittsburgh, PA 15219 USA								30							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700001	50	Article; Article		
J	Eckard, Timothy G.; Marshall, Stephen W.; Kucera, Kristen L.; Wikstrom, Erik A.; Cameron, Kenneth L.; DiStefano, Lindsay J.; Padua, Darin A.								Trends in movement quality in US Military Academy cadets 2005-17 A JUMP-ACL study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				109	115		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.020			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: This study sought to determine if there were significant trends in lower extremity movement quality, as assessed by the Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) scores and plane-specific LESS subscales, across in 12 recent cohorts of incoming USMA cadets. Design: prospective cohort study. Setting: United States Military Academy. Participants: 7,591. Main outcome measures: Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) scores, adjusted for sex and ACL injury history. Results: Statistically significant inverse trends were found between total LESS score and year (p < 0.01) and sagittal plane subscale and year (p < 0.01). A statistically significant direct trend was found for the frontal/transverse plane subscale and year (p < 0.01). However, each of these trends had a small associated effect size, and none were considered clinically meaningful. Conclusions: There were no meaningful changes in lower extremity movement quality in incoming US Military Academy cadets between 2005 and 2017. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Eckard, Timothy G.] Western Carolina Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Cullowhee, NC 28723 USA; [Marshall, Stephen W.] Univ N Carolina, Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Kucera, Kristen L.; Wikstrom, Erik A.; Padua, Darin A.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Cameron, Kenneth L.] Keller Army Hosp, John A Feagin Jr Sports Med Fellowship, West Point, NY USA; [DiStefano, Lindsay J.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Eckard, Timothy G.] 3971 Little Savannah Rd, Cullowhee, NC 28723 USA								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700014	29	Article; Article		
J	Freeman, Brock W.; Talpey, Scott W.; James, Lachlan P.; Young, Warren B.								Sprinting and hamstring strain injury: Beliefs and practices of professional physical performance coaches in Australian football								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				12	19		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.007			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: The purpose of this study was to establish beliefs and practices of physical performance coaches regarding sprinting and Hamstring Strain Injury (HSI) in Australian Rules football. Designs: Delphi-validated questionnaire. Setting: Online. Participants: Eighteen high-performance managers of the Australian Football League. Main outcome measures: Descriptive statistics were collected to establish experience; central themes were established for the analyses of the beliefs and practices. Results: Nine (50%) physical performance coaches responded to an invitation to complete the questionnaire. Participants held an undergraduate degree and had 9.2 +/- 4.3 years of experience. Accelerations (n = 9), maximum speed sprints (n = 9) and running with hip flexion (n = 7) were the most common activities associated with HSI. Coaches believed sprinting, eccentric strength training and proper periodisation were effective strategies to reduce HSI risk. There's a disparity between beliefs and practices when using GPS to monitor sprinting, however, all coaches reported regular exposure to sprint training across both pre and in-season. Overstriding (n = 9) and pelvic instability (n = 6) were identified as key flaws in running mechanics. Conclusions: This information can be used to improve training strategies, whilst these findings indicate further investigations into sprint training and running mechanics for HSI risk reduction. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Freeman, Brock W.; Talpey, Scott W.; Young, Warren B.] Federat Univ Australia, Sch Sci Psychol & Sport, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [James, Lachlan P.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Freeman, Brock W.] POB 663 Univ Dr, Mt Helen, Vic 3350, Australia								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700002	40	Article; Article		
J	Waiteman, Marina Cabral; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Azevedo, Fabio M.; Pazzinatto, Marcella F.; Briani, Ronaldo, V; Bazett-Jones, David M.								Women with patellofemoral pain and knee crepitus have reduced knee flexion angle during stair ascent								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				60	66		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.013			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: To compare trunk and knee biomechanics of women with and without patellofemoral pain (PFP) and knee crepitus during stair ascent. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory-based study. Participants: 29 women with PFP and knee crepitus (PFPCrepitus); 28 women with PFP and no knee crepitus (PFPNOCrepitus); 17 pain-free women with knee crepitus (Pain-free(Crepitus)); and 29 pain-free women without knee crepitus (Pain-free(NOCrepitus)). Main outcome measures: Peak trunk flexion, peak knee flexion, mean knee angular velocity, knee extensor moment at peak knee flexion, peak and impulse of the knee extensor moment. Results: PFPCrepitus group performed the stair ascent task with reduced peak knee flexion compared to Pain-free(Crepitus) (p = 0.04; Effect size = -0.85) and Pain-free(NOCrepitus) (p = 0.03; Effect size = -0.75). No significant differences among groups were found for peak trunk flexion (p = 0.979), knee angular velocity (p = 0.420), knee extensor moment at peak knee flexion (p = 0.933), peak (p = 0.290) and impulse (p = 0.122) of the knee extensor moment. Conclusion: Women with concomitant PFP and knee crepitus demonstrated reduced knee flexion during stair ascent, but no significant differences for trunk flexion and knee extensor moment variables were found. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Waiteman, Marina Cabral; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Azevedo, Fabio M.; Pazzinatto, Marcella F.; Briani, Ronaldo, V] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci & Technol, Phys Therapy Dept, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Waiteman, Marina Cabral; Bazett-Jones, David M.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Pazzinatto, Marcella F.; Briani, Ronaldo, V] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sports & Exercise Med Res Ctr LASEM, Sch Allied Hlth, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Waiteman, Marina Cabral] Sao Paulo State Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Phys Therapy Dept, 305 Roberto Simonsen St, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700008	37	Article; Article		
J	Saki, Farzaneh; Yalfani, Ali; Fousekis, Konstantinos; Sodejani, Sajad Heydari; Ramezani, Farzaneh								Anatomical risk factors of lateral ankle sprain in adolescent athletes: A prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				26	34		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.009			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: The purpose of this study was to identify prospectively the anatomical and functional intrinsic risk factors for lateral ankle sprain (LAS) in adolescent athletes participating in team sports. Design: A prospective cohort study. Setting: University research laboratory. Participants: A total of 152 adolescent male athletes (age: 14.45 +/- 2.96 years; height: 165.63 +/- 15.33 cm; weight: 55.60 +/- 16.56 kg; body mass index: 19.97 +/- 3.58 kg/m(2)) participated in this study. Main outcome measures: The participants were assessed during the preseason for previous ankle sprain history, navicular drop, tibia vara, Q angle, tibia torsion, knee recurvatum, and ankle ROM. LASs were prospectively recorded and diagnosed for two consecutive seasons (20 months). Results: Previous ankle sprain history (odds ratio [OR] = 60.911, p < 0.001), increased navicular drop (OR = 1.767, p < 0.001), and knee recurvatum (OR =1.881, p = 0.002) were positively associated with the incidence of LAS. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses revealed the predictive potentials of previous ankle sprain history (the area under the ROC [AUROC] = 0.706, p < 0.001), navicular drop (AUROC = 0.906, p < 0.001), and knee recurvatum (AUROC = 0.724, p < 0.001). Conclusion: Athletes with previous ankle sprain history, knee recurvatum, and especially navicular drop may have a greater risk of LAS injury. The data from this study can help therapists and trainers to identify people with a higher risk of LAS. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Saki, Farzaneh; Yalfani, Ali; Sodejani, Sajad Heydari; Ramezani, Farzaneh] Bu Ali Sina Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Sport Injury & Correct Exercises, Hamadan, Iran; [Fousekis, Konstantinos] Univ Patras, Dept Physiotherapy, Sports Phys Therapy, Patras, Greece; [Saki, Farzaneh] Bu Ali Sina Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Sport Injury & Correct Exercises, Hamadan, Iran								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700004	74	Article; Article		
J	Serner, Andreas; Lichau, Olivier; Reboul, Gilles								Evaluation of the bent knee fall out test pre- and post- an adductor longus tenotomy								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				196	200		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.01.005			MAR 2021	2021	Objective: To investigate the immediate effect of an adductor longus tenotomy on the results of the bent knee fall out test, and whether there was a correlation between pre-tenotomy measures and the magnitude of change. Design: Observational study. Methods: We included recreational to elite athletes with longstanding adductor-related groin pain (specifically adductor longus insertion pain) undergoing unilateral or bilateral full adductor longus tenotomy. The bent knee fall out test was performed immediately prior and immediately after the surgical procedure. We used Wilcoxon signed-rank test to compare test results preand post-tenotomy, and Spearman's rho (rs) to analyse correlation between pre-tenotomy values and the magnitude of change in the bent knee fall out test. Results: We consecutively included 60 male adult athletes. There was a statistically significant difference (p < 0.001) in the bent knee fall out result from pre-surgery (median 11.5 cm [IQR 9-15], range 5-25 cm) to post-surgery (median 8 cm [IQR 6-10], range 3-15 cm). The mean difference was 3.9 +/- 2 cm, range 0-11 cm, corresponding to a large effect size, d = 1.92. There was a moderate correlation between the bent knee fall out measurement pre-tenotomy and the difference from pre-to-post, r(s) = 0.75, p < 0.001. Conclusion: The bent knee fall out measurements changed considerably immediately after an adductor longus tenotomy, showing that the test is assessing adductor longus flexibility in male athletes with longstanding adductor-related groin pain. There was a moderate correlation between the bent knee fall out measure pre-tenotomy and the magnitude of change. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Serner, Andreas] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Sport City St,POB 29222, Doha, Qatar; [Lichau, Olivier] Ctr Hosp Univ, Hop Pellegrin, Pl Amelie Raba Leon, F-33000 Bordeaux, France; [Lichau, Olivier; Reboul, Gilles] Hernia Ctr, Clin Sport, 4 Rue Georges Negrevergne, F-33700 Merignac, France; [Serner, Andreas] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Aspetar Sports Groin Pain Ctr, Sport City St,POB 29222, Doha, Qatar								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700024	21	Article; Article		
J	Walker, Adam; Hing, Wayne; Lorimer, Anna; Rathbone, Evelyne								Original Rehabilitation characteristics and patient barriers to and facilitators of ACL reconstruction rehabilitation: A cross-sectional survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				169	176		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.01.001			MAR 2021	2021	Objectives: To investigate patient-reported rehabilitation characteristics and barriers to and facilitators of ACL reconstruction rehabilitation. Design: Survey-based study. Setting: Online survey platform. Participants: Adults 1-20 years post ACL reconstruction (n 1/4 304). Main outcome measures: 1) rehabilitation characteristics, 2) barriers to and facilitators of rehabilitation. Results: Fear of re-injury (43.8%) was the highest rating barrier to rehabilitation adherence, while a good relationship with your rehabilitation provider was regarded as the most important factor (83.6%) in facilitating rehabilitation. Rehabilitation frequency reduced across the duration of rehabilitation from most commonly 1 x week (38.2%) in the first three months to once every month (26%) from 6 to 9 months. Almost all participants (95.7%) consulted a rehabilitation provider for the first six months. Only 43.4% of respondents returned to their previous level of sport. The exploratory analysis identified that low barriers to rehabilitation and a longer duration of supervised rehabilitation are associated with a faster return to sport, greater likelihood of return to previous level of sport and fewer reported ongoing problems with the knee. Conclusions: This cross-sectional survey provides insight into the patient's experience of rehabilitation practices and a patient's perspective on the key barriers to and facilitators of ACL rehabilitation adherence and participation. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Walker, Adam; Hing, Wayne; Lorimer, Anna; Rathbone, Evelyne] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast 4226, Australia; [Walker, Adam] Bond Inst Hlth & Sport, Promethean Way, Robina, Qld 4226, Australia								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700021	35	Article; Article		
J	Ly, Kien; Michaud, Lucas; Lajoie, Yves								The effects of Kinesiology Tape on static postural control in individuals with functional ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				146	153		10.1016/j.ptsp.2021.01.003			MAR 2021	2021	Objective: To investigate if applying Kinesiology Tape (KT) on the unstable ankle may improve static postural control in individuals with Functional ankle instability. Design: A repeated measured study. Participants performed a series of static quiet bipedal and unipedal stances on a force platform. Measurements were taken at three different times: baseline or no tape, immediately and 24 h after the taping application with the tape remaining on the ankle. Setting: A university's psychomotor laboratory. Participants: Twenty young adults with Functional ankle instability aged from 18 to 30 years old. Outcome measures: Postural control was assessed by four measures derived from the centre of pressure data: Area of 95% Confidence ellipse, standard deviation of displacements, mean velocity and mean power frequency. The analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed to determine any significant improvement in postural control over time due to KT. Results: Only minor changes in mean velocity and MPF in unipedal stances were observed immediately after KT application. However, the overall results indicated statistically insignificant improvements in postural control neither immediately after KT application nor after 24 h. Conclusion: Results suggest that the use of KT did not affect bipedal and unipedal stances of individuals with functional ankle instability. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ly, Kien; Michaud, Lucas; Lajoie, Yves] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Lajoie, Yves] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700019	34	Article; Article		
J	Maselli, F.; Esculier, J. F.; Storari, L.; Mourad, F.; Rossettini, G.; Barbari, V; Pennella, D.; Cataldi, F.; Viceconti, A.; Geri, T.; Testa, M.								Low back pain among Italian runners: A cross-sectional survey								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				48				136	145		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.023			MAR 2021	2021	Background: Low Back Pain (LBP) is commonly reported as a very frequent disorder in sports, but its prevalence in runners remains unclear. Objectives: To determine the prevalence of LBP in a wide sample of Italian runners. Design: A cross-sectional online survey. Setting: A national survey, according to the CHERRIES and STROBE guidelines, was performed in 2019. Participants: 2539 Italian runners. Methods: A sample of Italian runners registered with national running associations was recruited. The survey was conducted using an online survey development platform. The questionnaire was self reported and included 38 questions. Main outcome measures: Descriptive statistics and frequencies were used to analyze results. Relationships between demographics, daily habits and running characteristics and the responses given was calculated with Cramer's V. Only correlation values higher 0.60 were deemed of interest. Results: 2539 questionnaires (63.5%) were valid for analysis. In total, 22.6% of runners reported having experienced LBP in the past year. Most participants (77.0%) reporting episodes of LBP believed it was not caused by running. No significant correlations (Cramer's V < 0.60) were found between LBP and demographics, training characteristics or lifestyle habits. Conclusion: The prevalence of LBP among Italian runners was 22,57%. LBP was not associated with training, equipment or lifestyle. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Maselli, F.; Storari, L.; Rossettini, G.; Barbari, V; Viceconti, A.; Geri, T.; Testa, M.] Univ Genoa, Dept Neurosci Rehabil Ophthalmol Genet & Maternal, Campus Savona, Savona, Italy; [Maselli, F.] Sovrintendenza Sanit Reg Puglia INAIL, Bari, Italy; [Esculier, J. F.] Running Clin, Lac Beauport, PQ, Canada; [Esculier, J. F.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Phys Therapy, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Mourad, F.; Cataldi, F.] Tor Vergata Univ Rome, Dept Clin Sci & Translat Med, Rome, Italy; [Pennella, D.] Univ Molise, Cardarelli Hosp, Dept Med & Hlth Sci Vincenzo Tiberio, Campobasso, Italy; [Maselli, F.] Univ Genoa, Dept Neurosci Rehabil Ophthalmol Genet & Maternal, Campus Savona, Savona, Italy								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618034700018	92	Article; Article		
J	Toledo, Ramon; Dias, Marcelo Ricardo; Souza, Daniel; Soares, Raphael; Toledo, Ronam; Lacio, Marcio; Vianna, Jeferson								Joint and muscle injuries in men and women CrossFit® training participants								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	3			205	211		10.1080/00913847.2021.1892468			MAY 4 2022	2022	Objective: Verify the incidence and rate of joint and muscle injuries with the practice of CrossFit (R) and the potential risk factors for injuries in men and women. Methods: A total of 184 CrossFit (R) participants (97 men and 87 women). A questionnaire was conducted based on characterization, training routine, injuries, and additional information. The incidence refers to the number of new cases of injury in the sample during the CrossFit (R) training. The injury rate was calculated by estimating the number of weekly training hours and converted into the number of injuries per 1000 training hours. Results: Among the participants, 38.6% reported some type of injury, being joint injuries (83.1%) and/or muscle injuries (45.1%). The injury rate was 3.4/1000 h, with men having a higher rate. The location of the joint injuries was shoulders, wrists, and elbows, in addition to the lumbar spine in women. As for muscle injuries, the deltoid, upper back muscles, and quadriceps femoris were the most reported in men and deltoid, trapezius, upper back muscles, and gastrocnemius in women. Conclusions: A better understanding of the anatomical distribution of the injuries may help coaches prescribe the most adequate workout that may reduce the likelihood of injuries occurring in CrossFit (R) training participants. It was demonstrated that gender, experience, weekly frequency, and previous injuries are important factors, and professionals must be concerned with the assessment of the participants and with an individualized progression in order to avoid risks.		[Toledo, Ramon; Dias, Marcelo Ricardo; Toledo, Ronam; Lacio, Marcio; Vianna, Jeferson] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Dias, Marcelo Ricardo; Lacio, Marcio] Granbery Methodist Coll, Lab Exercise Physiol & Morphofunct Assessment, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Souza, Daniel] Unifaminas, Phys Educ Dept, Muriae, Brazil; [Souza, Daniel] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Soares, Raphael] Fac Ensin E, Phys Educ Dept, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Dias, Marcelo Ricardo] Granbery Methodist Coll, Juiz De Fora, Brazil								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000622280600001	28	Article; Article		
J	Henley-Martin, Sarah R.; Hiscock, Daniel J.; Ducker, Kagan J.; Jacques, Angela; Brade, Carly J.								Performance, perceptual and physiological comparison of traditional and small-sided games in youth hockey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			749	755	1747954121998816	10.1177/1747954121998816			JUN 2021	2021	This study aimed to determine if children playing field hockey small-sided games (SSG) have different levels of physiological, performance and perceptual responses, compared to traditional hockey. Fifteen school hockey players (10-12 y) played eight matches over four months. Traditional games (n = 4) were played on a full-sized pitch with 11 players per team, and SSG were played as two-separate games (n = 8), with 7 players per team on a half-field pitch. Heart rate, movement data and match involvement were collected during the game. Participants were asked their session rating of perceived exertion (sRPE) and completed an enjoyment questionnaire. There were more possessions per player in the SSG format compared to traditional (53.9 +/- 2.5 vs. 36.8 +/- 6.5, [d = 3.83]). Number of shots on goal, total goals, penalty corners and circle penetrations were increased in SSG compared to traditional games (d = 1.11-1.83). Mean and maximum heart rate, sRPE, enjoyment, total distance run, meters per minute, distance run at low velocity and high velocity were similar for both formats, with no significant difference between them. SSG increased match involvements, allowing more participation than the traditional format, without compromising the physiological (e.g. heart rate), performance (e.g. total distance) and perceptual (e.g. sRPE) workload.		[Henley-Martin, Sarah R.; Hiscock, Daniel J.; Ducker, Kagan J.; Jacques, Angela; Brade, Carly J.] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, Kent St, Perth, WA 6102, Australia; [Hiscock, Daniel J.] Wesley Coll, Sport Dept, South Perth, Australia; [Henley-Martin, Sarah R.] Curtin Univ, Curtin Sch Allied Hlth, Kent St, Perth, WA 6102, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000624235000001	29	Article; Article		
J	Smyth, Erin; Appaneal, Renee; Drew, Michael; Antcliff, Alanna; Waddington, Gordon; Newman, Phil; Weissensteiner, Juanita; Donaldson, Alex								Identifying the challenges to implementing a neuromuscular warm-up in pre-elite netball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			913	924	1747954121998462	10.1177/1747954121998462			AUG 2021	2021	Objective To identify challenges for implementing Netball Australia's 'Knee injury prevention for Netballers and Enhance performance and Extend play' (KNEE) program for 17/U & 19/U State (i.e. regional/provincial representative) teams. Design Concept mapping, a mixed-methods approach incorporating qualitative and quantitative data collection and analyses. Setting Pre-elite netball. Participants Thirty-nine netball coaches, strength & conditioning coaches and physiotherapists working with State 17/U & 19/U teams. Methods Participants brainstormed challenges to implementing the KNEE program, sorted the challenges into groups based on similar meaning and rated the importance and difficulty of overcoming each challenge on a scale from 0 (least important/easiest to overcome) to 5 (most important/hardest to overcome). Results Forty-six statements (i.e. challenges) were identified and organised into the following eight clusters (mean importance rating out of 5, mean difficulty rating out of 5): 'athlete engagement' (3.31, 2.48); 'supervision and correction of technique' (3.03, 2.67); 'time constraints' (2.79, 2.59); 'athlete technique' (2.70, 2.64); 'education' (2.56, 2.16); 'support staff resourcing' (2.51, 2.67); 'program flexibility and adaptability' (2.02, 1.85); and 'coach and support staff prioritisation' (1.95, 1.81). Nineteen statements/challenges had above average ratings for importance (2.63) and difficulty (2.41). Conclusions This study identified 'athlete engagement', 'supervision and correction of technique', 'time constraints', 'athlete technique', 'education' and 'support staff resourcing' as the most important and difficult challenges to implementing the KNEE program in pre-elite netball. These multi-factorial challenges are the main barriers to implementing the KNEE program. They can be addressed using the implementation driver's framework.		[Smyth, Erin; Appaneal, Renee; Waddington, Gordon] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Smyth, Erin; Appaneal, Renee; Drew, Michael; Waddington, Gordon] Australian Inst Sport, Athlete Availabil Program, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Drew, Michael] Australian Collaborat Res Injury Sport & its Prev, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Antcliff, Alanna] Australian Sports Commiss, Netball Australia, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Newman, Phil] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Weissensteiner, Juanita] New South Wales Off Sport, Sport Dev Grp, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Donaldson, Alex] La Trobe Univ, Ctr Sport & Social Impact, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Smyth, Erin] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bldg 29, Bruce, ACT 2601, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000624232200001	57	Article; Article		
J	Shahab, Samad; Steendahl, Ida B.; Ruf, Ludwig; Meyer, Tim; Van Hooren, Bas								Sprint performance and force-velocity profiling does not differ between artificial turf and concrete								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			968	975	1747954121996966	10.1177/1747954121996966			AUG 2021	2021	Purpose Force-velocity-power (F-v-P) profiling can illustrate an individual's sprinting capabilities, but no study has explored the effect of different running surfaces on F-v-P outcomes. Method Twelve elite youth football players (age 16.3 +/- 0.5 years, mass 67.3 +/- 5.4 kg, height 176.2 +/- 4.6 cm) performed two 30 m sprints on concrete and artificial turf in a randomised order on two testing days. Differences between surfaces were determined using repeated-measures ANOVA (P < 0.05), whilst the coefficient of variation (CV), smallest worthwhile change and standard error of measurement were calculated to quantify reliability. Results No significant differences were found between surfaces over the average of two days. High reliability was evident for 30 m sprint time, theoretical maximum horizontal velocity and ratio of force on both surfaces (CV <=similar to 5%), while the remaining outputs were not reliable (CV >10%). Conclusion These findings show that F-v-P profiling does not differ between concrete and artificial turf. However, higher variability on the more unfamiliar concrete surface suggests that the testing surface should match the playing surface. Since the standard error of measurement is larger than the smallest worthwhile change, the ability of this method to monitor seasonal changes may be limited in youth elite soccer players.		[Shahab, Samad; Van Hooren, Bas] Maastricht Univ, Med Ctr, NUTRIM Sch Nutr & Translat Res Metab, Dept Nutr & Movement Sci, Univ Singel 50, NL-6229 ER Maastricht, Netherlands; [Shahab, Samad; Steendahl, Ida B.; Ruf, Ludwig; Meyer, Tim] Saarland Univ, Inst Sports & Prevent Med, Saarbrucken, Germany; [Steendahl, Ida B.] DFB Akad, Think Tank, Frankfurt, Germany; [Van Hooren, Bas] Maastricht Univ, Med Ctr, NUTRIM Sch Nutr & Translat Res Metab, Dept Nutr & Movement Sci, Univ Singel 50, NL-6229 ER Maastricht, Netherlands								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000624205100001	31	Article; Article		
J	Wedding, C.; Woods, C. T.; Sinclair, W. H.; Gomez, M. A.; Leicht, A. S.								Exploring the effect of various match factors on team playing styles in the National Rugby League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			976	984	1747954121997238	10.1177/1747954121997238			AUG 2021	2021	Objectives This study examined the effect of match location, score-line, team quality and match outcome on the expression of team playing styles in the National Rugby League (NRL) across the 2015-2019 seasons. Methods Thirty-eight performance indicators (e.g. offloads, runs) from all NRL games (n = 2010) were collected. Match-related factors examined were location (home/away/neutral), match type (absolute score differential), team quality (end of season ladder position) and outcome (win/draw/loss). Factor analysis using principal component analysis (PCA) were run to identify team playing styles, which were inferred from the clustered dimensions (Factors) of team performance indicators. Discriminant analysis was then used to determine the effect of the match factors on team playing styles. Results PCA revealed nine Factors accounting for similar to 54% of team performance variance. Discriminant analysis did not meaningfully resolve team playing styles for match type, team quality or location (similar to 34%, similar to 46% and similar to 58% classification accuracy, respectively). One discriminant function correctly classified similar to 81% of matches based on outcome, including four team playing styles defined as 'attacking play', 'linebreaks', 'handling errors' and 'conceded linebreaks'. Conclusions Team playing styles characterised by 'attacking play' and 'linebreaks', coupled with relative defensive efficiency showed the greatest association with winning regardless of team quality, match location or match type. Using similar sport analytical techniques, additional insight into the importance of various team playing styles over the time-course of a match may allow teams to further extrapolate the likelihood of success in real-time.		[Wedding, C.; Woods, C. T.; Sinclair, W. H.; Gomez, M. A.; Leicht, A. S.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Wedding, C.; Sinclair, W. H.] North Queensland Cowboys Rugby League Football Cl, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Woods, C. T.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Gomez, M. A.] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, Madrid, Spain; [Wedding, C.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000621900800001	30	Article; Article		
J	Alhammoud, Marine; Racinais, Sebastien; Dorel, Sylvain; Guilhem, Gael; Hautier, Christophe Andre; Morel, Baptiste								Muscle-tendon unit length changes in knee extensors and flexors during alpine skiing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	3			335	346		10.1080/14763141.2020.1862902			MAR 3 2024	2024	This study characterised the thigh muscle-tendon unit length variations (MTUv) in elite alpine skiing. MTUv were modelled for seven muscles from knee and hip angles in 17 national team skiers during 1602 cycles (546 Slalom (SL), 908 Giant-Slalom (GS), 136 Super-Giant (SG) and 12 Downhill (DH) cycles). The biarticular rectus femoris showed a dynamic pattern on both legs, especially in SL. On the other side, vastii displayed a stable length on the inside leg in all disciplines (37-46% of the cycle), contrasting with their dynamic behaviour on the outside leg being quasi-static for only 3% (SL) to 27% (DH) of the cycle. SL showed the largest amplitude of MTUv followed by GS, SG and DH. For vastus lateralis, MTUv was similar to 60%Lr.s(-1) in SL but only similar to 12%Lr.s(-1) in DH. In SL, a fine desynchronisation between both joints led to nearly constant MTUv (slow lengthening lasting similar to 45-51% of the cycle) for the biarticular hamstrings separated by faster variations during turn switch from outside to inside leg. In summary, biarticular MTUv were not characterised by single-joint behaviours, suggesting that extrapolating contraction regimen from knee joint only is not accurate in alpine skiing.		[Alhammoud, Marine] French Ski Federat, Med Dept, Annecy, France; [Alhammoud, Marine; Hautier, Christophe Andre] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France; [Alhammoud, Marine; Racinais, Sebastien] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Racinais, Sebastien; Guilhem, Gael] French Inst Sport INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, Paris, France; [Dorel, Sylvain] Univ Nantes, Fac Sport Sci, Lab Movement Interact Performance EA 4334, Nantes, France; [Morel, Baptiste] Savoie Mt Blanc Univ, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Biol EA 7424, Chambery, France; [Alhammoud, Marine] French Ski Federat, Med Dept, Annecy, France; [Alhammoud, Marine] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France; [Alhammoud, Marine] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000620532900001	18	Article; Article		
J	Lima, Yavuz; Bayraktar, Bulent								Injuries in elite level male beach soccer players: a prospective three year study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	3			251	256		10.1080/00913847.2021.1889933			MAY 4 2022	2022	Objectives: The aim of this study was to investigate the incidence and characteristics of match and training injuries in elite-level national male beach soccer players. Method: The incidence, mechanism, location, type, severity, and burden of injuries of the Turkish national beach soccer team were recorded between 2017 and 2019. Results: A total of 136 injuries occurred during the study period. Total injury incidence was 238.9 injuries/1,000 match hours (MHs) and 37.7 injuries/1,000 training hours (THs) (p < 0.001). Twenty-seven injuries led to time-loss, and the incidences for match and training injuries were 36.7 and 7.9 per 1,000 hours, respectively. Of medical attention injuries (MAI) caused by trauma, 54.6% (n = 53) were due to another player and, 60.9% (n = 14) of time-loss injuries (TLI) caused by trauma were due to non-contact trauma (p < 0.001). While 82% (n = 91) of training injuries occurred in lower extremities, 29% (n = 9) of match injuries occurred in the head/neck region (p < 0.001). Head injury incidence was 45.9 per 1,000 match hours. Of MAI, 50% (n = 57) were contusion, and 32.1% (n = 9) of TLI were strain (p < 0.001). Also, the most common injury subtype was foot/toe contusion during match and training (19.4%; n = 6, 27.9%; n = 31, respectively). The majority of injuries 91.9% (n = 125) had slight severity. Conclusion: Head trauma, tendon injury, and foot/toe contusion are important for clinical practice in beach soccer. Protective measures (rule regulation, use of protective equipment, etc.) should be considered to prevent these injuries.		[Lima, Yavuz] Balikesir Ataturk City Hosp, Sports Med Clin, Balikesir, Turkey; [Bayraktar, Bulent] Istanbul Univ, Istanbul Fac Med, Sports Med Dept, Istanbul, Turkey; [Bayraktar, Bulent] Turkish Football Federat, Istanbul, Turkey; [Bayraktar, Bulent] Acibadem Sports FIFA Med Ctr Excellence Consultan, Istanbul, Turkey; [Lima, Yavuz] Balikesir Ataturk City Hosp, Sports Med Clin, Gaziosmanpasa Mahallesi 209 Sok 26, TR-10100 Altieylul Balikesir, Turkey								13							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000620544700001	35	Article; Article		
J	Tan, Julian Q. J.; Lee, Marcus J. C.; Boey, Desmond; Lum, Danny; Barbosa, Tiago M.								The transfer of dry-land strength & power into thrust in competitive swimming								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	4			443	454		10.1080/14763141.2020.1869815			APR 2 2024	2024	The aim was to compare the transfer of dry-land strength and power (S&P) of the shoulder into thrust in front-crawl between swimmers of different competitive levels. Four elite and six sub-elite swimmers were selected to perform a dry-land or an in-water test in random order. The dry-land S&P measurements comprised mean torque, peak torque and mean power of the shoulder rotators of the dominant and non-dominant upper-limbs that were assessed on an isokinetic dynamometer at 90 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s. In-water mean thrust, peak thrust and peak power were collected using an in-house customised system composed of differential pressure sensors and an underwater camera during a 25 m freestyle swim at three different paces (400 m pace, 200 m pace, all-out). There were non-significant and trivial variations in dry-land S&P between elite and sub-elite swimmers. The variations were non-significant but mostly large in the case of thrust. Correlation coefficients of elite swimmers were significantly larger than sub-elite counterparts. In conclusion, elite swimmers seem to be more efficient than sub-elite swimmers at transferring dry-land S&P into thrust.		[Tan, Julian Q. J.; Lum, Danny; Barbosa, Tiago M.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sport Sci Acad Grp, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [Tan, Julian Q. J.] Temasek Polytech, Singapore, Singapore; [Lee, Marcus J. C.; Boey, Desmond; Lum, Danny] Singapore Sport Inst, Sport Sci & Sport Med, Singapore, Singapore; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Dept Sport Sci, Braganca, Portugal; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Tan, Julian Q. J.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sport Sci Acad Grp, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [Tan, Julian Q. J.] Temasek Polytech, Singapore, Singapore								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000620463800001	38	Article; Article		
J	Jooste, Marcel; Schwellnus, Martin; Sewry, Nicola; Janse Van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa); Ramagole, Dimakatso A.; Swanevelder, Sonja; Jordaan, Esme								Chronic prescription medication use in endurance runners: a cross-sectional study in 76,654 race entrants - SAFER XV								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	2			147	156		10.1080/00913847.2021.1885965			MAR 4 2022	2022	Objective To determine the prevalence of chronic prescription medication (CPM) use in distant runners (by age and sex) and to compare CPM use in 21.1 km vs. 56 km race entrants. Methods A cross-sectional study of 76,654 race entrants who completed a pre-race medical screening questionnaire during race registration, which included questions on the use of CPM and CPM use in eight main categories of CPM. Prevalence (%, 95%CIs) and prevalence ratios (PR) are reported. Results The prevalence of any CPM use was 12.5% (12.2-12.8). CPM use was higher in older age categories vs. the youngest age category (31-40 yrs vs. <= 30 yrs: PR = 1.4; 41-50 yrs vs. <= 30 yrs: PR = 2.1; >50 yrs vs. <= 30 yrs: PR = 3.4) (p < 0.0001) and females vs. males (PR = 1.1; p < 0.0001). The use of any CPM was significantly higher in 21.1 km vs. 56 km race entrants (PR = 1.2; p < 0.0001). Prevalence of CPM use in main categories was: blood pressure lowering medication (3.7%), cholesterol lowering medication (3.6%), asthma medication (3.1%), and medication to treat anxiety/depression (2.6%). The pattern of CPM in the main categories differed between 21.1 km and 56 km race entrants. Conclusions One in eight race entrants use CPM, with a higher prevalence of use among older race entrants, female vs. males, and 21.1 km vs. 56 km race entrants. Frequent CPMs used are blood pressure lowering medication, cholesterol lowering medication, asthma medication, and medication to treat anxiety/depression. The use of CPM medications may increase the risk of medical complications during exercise, and these data help identify subgroups of entrants that may be at higher risk for race medical encounters.		[Jooste, Marcel; Janse Van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa); Ramagole, Dimakatso A.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Sect Sports Med & Sport, Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin; Sewry, Nicola] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Int Olymp Comm IOC, SEMLI, Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Cape Town, Sport & Exercise Med, Fac Hlth Sci, Rondebosch, South Africa; [Swanevelder, Sonja; Jordaan, Esme] South African Med Res Council, Biostat Unit, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] Univ Western Cape, Stat & Populat Studies Dept, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jooste, Marcel; Janse Van Rensburg, Dina C. (Christa); Ramagole, Dimakatso A.] Univ Pretoria, Sect Sports Med, Pretoria, South Africa; [Jooste, Marcel; Schwellnus, Martin; Sewry, Nicola] Univ Pretoria, SEMLI, Pretoria, South Africa; [Swanevelder, Sonja; Jordaan, Esme] South African Med Res Council, Biostat Unit, Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Pretoria, South Africa								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000624728200001	58	Article; Article		
J	DeJong, Alexandra F.; Koldenhoven, Rachel M.; Hertel, Jay								Hip biomechanical alterations during walking in chronic ankle instability patients: a cross-correlation analysis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	4			460	471		10.1080/14763141.2021.1884285			APR 21 2022	2022	Chronic ankle instability (CAI) patients often present with centrally-mediated neuromuscular adaptations. Gluteal thickness measures derived from ultrasound imaging (USI) have been correlated to hip biomechanical measures during walking among healthy individuals, however these relationships remain unexplored among CAI patients. The purpose of this study was to compare USI-derived gluteus maximus and medius thickness measures to tri-planar hip kinematics, kinetics, and gluteus medius surface electromyography (sEMG) amplitude during walking among CAI patients. Fifteen females with CAI walked on a treadmill while USI, hip tri-planar kinematics, kinetics, and sEMG were synchronously recorded. Cross-correlation analyses were conducted at 1% intervals (11-ms) from -20% to 20% in the gait cycle. Gluteus medius thickness measures were associated with frontal plane kinematics at a 99-ms lag (cross-correlation coefficient [CCF]: -0.61), transverse plane kinematics at a 66-ms lag (CCF: -0.69), and with hip kinetics at 110-ms lags (CCF: 0.51-0.55). Gluteus medius thickness measures followed sEMG amplitudes by 143-ms (CCF: 0.22). Gluteus maximus thickness was associated with sagittal kinematics at a 220-ms lag (CCF: -0.70), and thickness changes preceded sagittal kinetics at 200-ms (0.87). Compared to reference healthy data, the CAI group presented with differing lag times between USI-derived measures and hip biomechanics, suggesting neuromechanical alterations during walking.		[DeJong, Alexandra F.; Hertel, Jay] Univ Virginia, Exercise & Sport Injury Lab, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Koldenhoven, Rachel M.] Texas State Univ, Biomech Sports Med Lab, San Marcos, TX USA; [DeJong, Alexandra F.] Univ Virginia, Exercise & Sport Injury Lab, Charlottesville, VA USA								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625683700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Ju, Yan-Ying; Chu, Wan-Ting; Shieh, Wann-Yun; Cheng, Hsin-Yi Kathy								Elbow, wrist kinematics and shock transmission of backhand stroke in wheelchair tennis players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	4			402	416		10.1080/14763141.2020.1862903			APR 2 2024	2024	The aim was to compare the differences in kinematics of elbow and wrist and shock transmission of the upper extremity in wheelchair tennis players and able-bodied players (in standing and sitting position) during backhand strokes. Fifteen wheelchair tennis and 15 able-bodied tennis players enrolled. Electromagnetic system and trial-axial accelerometers were used to measure the difference in the kinematic parameters of the upper extremity and the impact vibration transferred across the wrist joint. The results indicated that wheelchair players demonstrated unique elbow and wrist kinematics, especially shorter total swing time, greater elbow flexion at preparation, lower wrist extension acceleration before impact, and smaller racket vibration at impact. Comparing to able-bodied players in standing, wheelchair players and players in sitting demonstrated significantly greater elbow joint flexion/extension angle, angular velocity, angular acceleration during extension, and wrist joint flexion angle. Wheelchair players also differ significantly with the players in sitting regarding elbow joint angular velocity and acceleration, and wrist joint flexion velocity. These adaptations and adjustments can be attributed to the missing lower extremity function and deficient trunk kinetic chain. The differences between wheelchair tennis players and able-bodied players in sitting could represent the progress as the wheelchair players moving from novices to experts.		[Ju, Yan-Ying] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Adapted Phys Educ, Tao Yuan, Taiwan; [Chu, Wan-Ting] Taipei Vet Gen Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Taipei, Taiwan; [Shieh, Wann-Yun] Chang Gung Univ, Dept Comp Sci & Informat Engn, Tao Yuan, Taiwan; [Shieh, Wann-Yun; Cheng, Hsin-Yi Kathy] Chang Gung Mem Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Tao Yuan, Taiwan; [Cheng, Hsin-Yi Kathy] Chang Gung Univ, Coll Med, Grad Inst Early Intervent, Tao Yuan, Taiwan; [Cheng, Hsin-Yi Kathy] Chang Gung Mem Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Tao Yuan, Taiwan; [Cheng, Hsin-Yi Kathy] Chang Gung Univ, Coll Med, Grad Inst Early Intervent, Tao Yuan, Taiwan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618991800001	35	Article; Article		
J	Schofield, Michael; Cronin, John B.; Macadam, Paul; Storey, Adam								Reliability of cable downswing load-velocity performance in golf swings								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	2			230	237		10.1080/14763141.2019.1571093			FEB 17 2021	2021	The cable-pulley downswing is a movement similar to the golf downswing, and therefore may offer a valuable golf specific rotational diagnostic and training tool. However, to be of value, measurements need to be stable across testing occasions. Therefore, the aim of this study was to quantify the test-retest reliability of the cable downswing across a spectrum of load-velocities. Ten male participants (21.7 +/- 3.0 years, 84.6 +/- 9.8 kg, 1.80 +/- 0.05 m) volunteered to participate over 3 testing sessions' separated by a minimum of 3 days. Participants performed maximal velocity cable downswings across eight loads (1.25-18.75 kg), which were incrementally increased by 2.5 kg. Vertical cable stack velocity was collected at 50 Hz via a GymAware linear position transducer. Downswing velocity across all eight loads was observed to be extremely reliable (change in mean = -5.1% to 2.9%, coefficient of variation = 1.5-6.4% and intra-class correlation = 0.70-0.98), with reliability increasing with increasing trials. In conclusion, the cable downswing is a reliable method of tracking rotational ability similar to the golf downswing. Practitioners should establish an upper load relative to the apparatus and participant. Future research should determine the utility and sensitivity of this measure.		[Schofield, Michael; Cronin, John B.; Macadam, Paul; Storey, Adam] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ AU, Auckland, New Zealand; [Cronin, John B.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Macadam, Paul] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ AU, Auckland, New Zealand								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000613833000008	20	Article; Article		
J	Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro; Haff, Guy Gregory; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								Assessment of the loaded squat jump and countermovement jump exercises with a linear velocity transducer: which velocity variable provides the highest reliability?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	2			247	260		10.1080/14763141.2018.1540651			FEB 17 2021	2021	This study aimed to compare the between-session reliability of three typically measured velocity variables (mean velocity [MV], mean propulsive velocity [MPV], and maximum velocity [Vmax]) to assess vertical jump performance. Totally, 23 men had their squat jump (SJ) and countermovement jump (CMJ) tested against five different loading conditions (17, 30, 45, 60 and 75 kg) during two consecutive weeks. The two sessions of each jump type were performed within the same week separated by 48-72 h. The main finding was a significant difference in reliability between the variables, which were ranked from the highest to the lowest reliable as follows (median coefficient of variation [CV] and range): Vmax (CV = 2.35% [1.85%-3.23%]) >MV (CV = 3.29% [2.18%-4.40%]) >MPV (CV = 3.69% [2.08%-5.17%]). A significant variable x exercise interaction was also observed showing that the differences in reliability between the variables were meaningful during the SJ (MV: CV = 3.93% [3.06%-4.40%], MPV: CV = 4.61% [4.07%-5.17%], and Vmax: CV = 2.14% [1.85%-2.71%]), while no significant differences were observed for the CMJ (MV: CV = 2.43% [2.18%-3.70%], MPV: CV = 2.71% [2.08%-3.63%], and Vmax: CV = 2.40% [1.97%-3.23%]). These results suggest that the Vmax should be the recommended variable for obtaining a reproducible measure of lower-body ballistic performance, especially during the SJ exercise.		[Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro] Catholic Univ San Antonio, Fac Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Haff, Guy Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, CIEDE, Concepcion, Chile; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, CIEDE, Concepcion, Chile								19							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000613833000010	40	Article; Article		
J	Jacobs, Kimberley; Riveros, Diego; Vincent, Heather K.; Herman, Daniel C.								The effect of landing surface on landing error scoring system grades								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	2			190	197		10.1080/14763141.2018.1535617			FEB 17 2021	2021	Different landing surfaces may affect lower extremity biomechanical performance during athletic tasks. The magnitude of this effect on clinical screening measures such as jump-landings is unknown. This study determined the effect of court (CS), grass (GS), and tile (TS) surfaces on Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) grades. A repeated-measures design was used. A total of 40 (21F, 19M; mean age = 23.8 +/- 2.4 yr) recreational athletes performed a jump-landing task on three different landing surfaces. 2D videography recorded jump-landings in the frontal and sagittal planes. A 2 x 3 (sex by surface) mixed-model repeated-measures analysis of variance was used to examine main and interaction effects associated with surface and sex. No significant sex by landing surface interactions existed for LESS grades. No significant differences were observed on LESS grades for the main effect of surface (CS = 4.83 +/- 1.31 points; GS = 5.01 +/- 1.40 points; TS = 5.09 +/- 1.86 points; all p > 0.05). Correlations were found between LESS grades among different conditions (r range = 0.587-0.611; all p < 0.001). Commonly used jump-landing surfaces for clinical biomechanical evaluations do not affect LESS grades, suggesting generalisability as a screening tool for anterior cruciate ligament injury risk in different sport environments.		[Jacobs, Kimberley; Riveros, Diego] Univ Florida, Coll Med, Gainesville, FL USA; [Vincent, Heather K.; Herman, Daniel C.] Univ Florida, Coll Med, Dept Orthopaed & Rehabil, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Herman, Daniel C.] Univ Florida, Coll Med, Dept Orthopaed & Rehabil, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000613833000005	14	Article; Article		
J	Forman, Davis A.; Forman, Garrick N.; Button, Duane C.; Holmes, Michael W. R.								THERABAND® CLX gold reduces knee-width index and range of motion during overhead, barbell squatting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	2			198	212		10.1080/14763141.2018.1537371			FEB 17 2021	2021	This study examined the influence of the Theraband(TM) CLX gold band on lower-limb muscle activity and kinematics during an overhead barbell squat. Participants performed two sets (band and no-band) of 12 repetitions of overhead barbell squats at 25% bodyweight. Three-dimensional kinematics were measured using motion capture with rigid bodies placed bilaterally on the foot, shank, thigh and thorax. Electromyography was collected from seven, bilateral muscles of the lower-limb and was unchanged for all muscles between conditions. Medial knee collapse was calculated using a knee-width index (KWI) ratio of the distance between the lateral epicondyles of the femur and the lateral malleoli. Average KWI was smaller during the band condition for the concentric (No band: 0.99 +/- 0.05, Band: 0.97 +/- 0.06, p < 0.05) and eccentric phases (No band: 1.00 +/- 0.06, Band: 0.97 +/- 0.05, p < 0.05). KWI was significantly smaller with the use of the Theraband(TM) CLX. As the gold band is the strongest of the CLX offerings, any benefit of increased proprioception may have been lost due to the high resistance of the band. Further research examining the dose-response of elastic band resistance to knee alignment may be needed to inform proper exercise prescription.		[Forman, Davis A.] Univ Ontario Inst Technol, Fac Sci, Oshawa, ON, Canada; [Forman, Garrick N.; Holmes, Michael W. R.] Brock Univ, Fac Appl Hlth Sci, Dept Kinesiol, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Button, Duane C.] Memorial Univ, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Holmes, Michael W. R.] Brock Univ, Fac Appl Hlth Sci, Dept Kinesiol, St Catharines, ON, Canada								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000613833000006	34	Article; Article		
J	Markstrom, Jonas L.; Schelin, Lina; Hager, Charlotte K.								A novel standardised side hop test reliably evaluates landing mechanics for anterior cruciate ligament reconstructed persons and controls								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	2			213	229		10.1080/14763141.2018.1538385			FEB 17 2021	2021	We propose a novel one-leg standardised rebound side-hop test (SRSH) specifically designed for detailed analysis of landing mechanics. Anterior cruciate ligament reconstructed persons (ACLR, n = 30) and healthy-knee controls (CTRL, n = 30) were tested for within-session and test-retest (CTRL only, n = 25) reliability and agreement. Trunk, hip and knee angles and moments in sagittal, frontal, and transversal planes during landing, including time to stabilisation (TTS), were evaluated using intra-class correlations (ICCs), average within-person standard deviations (S-W) and minimal differences. Excellent within-session reliability were found for angles in both groups (most ICCs > 0.90, S-W <= 5 degrees), and excellent to good for moments (most ICCs > 0.80, S-W <= 0.34 Nm/kg). Only knee internal rotation moment showed poor reliability (ICC < 0.4). Test-retest results were excellent to fair for all angles and moments (ICCs 0.47-0.91, S-W < 5 degrees and <= 0.25 Nm/kg), except for peak trunk lateral bending angle and knee internal rotation moment. TTS showed excellent to fair within-session reliability but poor test-retest results. These results, with a few exceptions, suggest promising potential of evaluating landing mechanics during the SRSH for ACLR and CTRL, and emphasise the importance of joint-specific movement control variables in standardised tasks.		[Markstrom, Jonas L.; Hager, Charlotte K.] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Physiotherapy, Umea, Sweden; [Schelin, Lina] Umea Univ, Umea Sch Business Econ & Stat, Dept Stat, Umea, Sweden; [Markstrom, Jonas L.] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Physiotherapy, Umea, Sweden								25							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000613833000007	42	Article; Article		
J	Gillet, Benoit; Begon, Mickael; Diger, Marine; Berger-Vachon, Christian; Rogowski, Isabelle								Alterations in scapulothoracic and humerothoracic kinematics during the tennis serve in adolescent players with a history of shoulder problems								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	2			165	177		10.1080/14763141.2018.1526963			FEB 17 2021	2021	The tennis serve generates high musculoskeletal loads at the shoulder complex, making athletes particularly vulnerable to chronic injuries, especially adolescent players. Chronic injuries are commonly related to altered scapular kinematics. This study explored the effects of a history of shoulder problems involving humerothoracic and scapulothoracic kinematics during the tennis serve at low speed in adolescent competitive players with and without a history of dominant shoulder problems. Totally, 28 adolescent tennis players were split into two groups, those with and those without a history of shoulder problems. Data on humeral and scapular kinematics relative to the thorax were collected using an electromagnetic system during slow velocity serves. The two groups's humerothoracic and scapulothoracic 3D joint angles were compared both at the end of the cocking phase and at the end of the acceleration phase of the tennis serve. At the end of the cocking phase, the players with a 30 history of shoulder problems showed less humeral abduction and external rotation and more scapular upward rotation. This group also showed less humeral abduction at the end of the acceleration phase. Players with a history of shoulder problems adapted their humerothoracic and scapulothoracic orientations to preserve shoulder integrity during the tennis serve.		[Gillet, Benoit; Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Lyon, Interuniv Lab Locomot Biol, Dept Sci & Tech Phys & Sports Act, Lyon, France; [Gillet, Benoit; Begon, Mickael] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Sch Kinesiol & Sci Phys Act, Lab Simulat & Movement Modeling S2M, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Begon, Mickael] CHU ST JUSTINE Mother & Child Univ Hosp, Res Ctr, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Diger, Marine] Hosp Civils Lyon, Med Dept Funct Resp Invest, Teaching Hosp, Lyon, France; [Berger-Vachon, Christian] French Inst Sci & Technol Transport Design & Netw, Lab Biomech & Shock Mech, Bron, France; [Berger-Vachon, Christian] Lyon Tennis Excellence Ctr, Bron, France; [Gillet, Benoit] Univ Lyon, Interuniv Lab Locomot Biol, Dept Sci & Tech Phys & Sports Act, Lyon, France; [Gillet, Benoit] Univ Montreal, Fac Med, Sch Kinesiol & Sci Phys Act, Lab Simulat & Movement Modeling S2M, Montreal, PQ, Canada								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000613833000003	49	Article; Article		
J	Robbins, Shawn M.; Renaud, Philippe J.; Pearsall, David J.								Principal component analysis identifies differences in ice hockey skating stride between high- and low-calibre players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	2			131	149		10.1080/14763141.2018.1524510			FEB 17 2021	2021	The objective was to compare joint angles during full stride skating on ice between high- and low-calibre hockey players. High (n = 8) and low (n = 8) calibre male participants completed full stride skating on ice for two to five trials. A 10-camera motion capture system collected kinematic data. Ankle, knee, and hip angles were calculated. Principal component analysis (PCA) identified important angle characteristics and each trial was scored against principal components (PC-scores). Hierarchical linear models examined relationships between PC-scores and skill level with and without controlling for speed. High-calibre participants were associated with greater ankle inversion during push-off and recovery (p < 0.001), greater knee extension (p = 0.051) and external rotation at push-off (p = 0.038), and greater hip flexion throughout stride (p = 0.027) after controlling for speed. Interactions existed between speed and skill level including faster skating speeds were associated with increased plantarflexion at push-off in low-calibre participants while there was no relationship in high-calibre participants. Skating pattern differences between skill levels provide an indication of ideal joint motion during skating. Players should be encouraged to plantarflex the ankle during push-off, extend and externally rotate the knee during push-off, and increase hip flexion throughout stride.		[Robbins, Shawn M.] McGill Univ, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil, Constance Lethbridge Rehabil Ctr, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M.] McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Renaud, Philippe J.; Pearsall, David J.] McGill Univ, McGill Res Ctr Phys Act & Hlth, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M.] McGill Univ, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil, Constance Lethbridge Rehabil Ctr, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M.] McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Montreal, PQ, Canada								37							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000613833000001	26	Article; Article		
J	Kraak, Wilbur; Vuuren, Hanno van; Welman, Karen								Post-concussion return-to-play: Perceptions of roles, responsibilities and guideline implementation among community club rugby stakeholders in South Africa								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	4			934	943	1747954121996677	10.1177/1747954121996677			AUG 2021	2021	Concussions are an inherent part of rugby; however, subsequent concussions can be decreased by following the appropriate post-concussion return-to-play (RTP) protocols. The aim of this study was to compare stakeholders' perceptions regarding their roles and responsibilities in terms of the implementation of post-concussion RTP in community club rugby in the Western Cape, South Africa. The results of a post-concussion RTP implementation questionnaire revealed limited knowledge of the recommended 6-stage BokSmart (TM) RTP protocol among players. Although not essential that players have knowledge of this protocol, this can be indicative of coaches' disregard of the importance of communicating concussion knowledge. Coaches were identified as having a major role to play in post-concussion RTP, being responsible for monitoring matches and training sessions for concussion. They were also considered the most knowledgeable stakeholders on post-concussion return-to-play guidelines. Yet, coaches and administrative staff demonstrated a relatively low ability to advise on when to safely return to play. Only two thirds of coaches and a third of administrative staff were found to implement the recommended protocol, while less than half of medical staff and only a third of coaches demonstrated the ability to implement the protocol correctly, revealing inadequate knowledge. Hence, the study underscored the significance of education focusing on the practical implementation of post-concussion RTP protocols within community club rugby.		[Kraak, Wilbur; Vuuren, Hanno van] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Welman, Karen] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Movement Lab, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Kraak, Wilbur] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000620005700001	32	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Yi; Gu, Hao Dong								How is table tennis used to boost the development of Shanghai? Interviewing the executive director of Shanghai Table Tennis Association								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	1			179	195		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2020-0049			MAR 29 2021	2021	Purpose Scholars have examined the relationship between sports and urban development and proposed to use sport programs and events as a catalyst to revitalize communities, upgrade urban infrastructure, promote city image, shift economic structure, nurture an active lifestyle, and enhance societal harmony and solidarity. Yet, previous studies were usually focused on mega sport events and were typically conceptual, theoretical and lack of practical applications. This study was designed to attain in-depth understanding on how a specific sport, table tennis, can be systematically organized and utilized to influence urban development through a qualitative research injury. Design/methodology/approach This investigation was carried by conducting in-depth interviews of the executive director of the Shanghai Table Tennis Association, on-site observations and comprehensive review of literature. Development of interview questions took into consideration the conceptual framework postulated by Preuss (2007) that contains six structures of urban development through sports. Triangulation analyses were conducted to cross validate the three information sources to generate themes and assertions. Findings While the identified practices were consistent with Preuss' (2007) framework, specific management activities earnestly practiced in Shanghai are centered on utilizing cultural and historical heritage, star power, branding strategies, staging tournaments, hallmark events, technical innovation and government relations to achieve the objectives of table tennis as a sport and the objectives of urban development through table tennis. Originality/value The findings of this study help fill the void that a theory usually cannot specify, namely, detailed, unambiguous practices. While table tennis may be a viewed as a small sport in many parts of the world, it has a strong, unprecedented historical heritage in Shanghai. This city has made a prudent choice and investment in this sport, which has proved to be effective. Other cities in the world should look into their own social, cultural and historical heritage and develop sport strategies, operations and programs accordingly.		[Zhang, Yi] Shanghai Univ, Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Gu, Hao Dong] Shanghai Univ, SILC Business Sch, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Yi] Shanghai Univ, Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000619576300001	32	Article; Article		
J	Markstrom, Jonas L.; Tengman, Eva; Hager, Charlotte K.								Side-hops challenge knee control in the frontal and transversal plane more than hops for distance or height among ACL-reconstructed individuals								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	1			142	159		10.1080/14763141.2020.1869296			JAN 2 2023	2023	We compared knee landing mechanics with presumed relation to risk of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury among three single-leg hop tests and between legs in individuals with unilateral ACL reconstruction. Thirty-four participants (>10 months' post-surgery, 23 females) performed the standardised rebound side hop (SRSH), maximal hop for distance (OLHD) and maximal vertical hop (OLVH). We calculated the following knee outcomes from motion capture and force plate data: finite helical axis inclination angles (approximates knee robustness), frontal and transversal plane angles at initial contact, peak angles of abduction and internal rotation during landing, and peak external moments of flexion, abduction and internal rotation during landing. Repeated-measures MANOVA analysis ('sex' as covariate) confirmed that SRSH induced greater angles and moments, particularly in the frontal plane, compared to OLHD and OLVH. There was between-leg asymmetry for peak knee flexion moment for males during OLHD and OLVH, and for females during SRSH. Our results advocate the SRSH over OLHD and OLVH for assessment of knee landing control to screen for movement patterns potentially related to ACL injury risk. However, clear differences in both knee kinematics and kinetics between OLHD and SRSH motivate the use of both tests to evaluate different aspects of landing control.		[Markstrom, Jonas L.; Tengman, Eva; Hager, Charlotte K.] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Physiotherapy, Umea, Sweden; [Markstrom, Jonas L.] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Physiotherapy, Umea, Sweden								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000618264000001	53	Article; Article		
J	Nara, Rio; Ikeda, Yusuke; Shimojo, Hirofumi; Sato, Daisuke; Ichikawa, Hiroshi; Baba, Yasuhiro; Shimoyama, Yoshimitsu								Does different timing of hip and knee joint extension during take-off affect backstroke start performance?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	4			431	442		10.1080/14763141.2020.1867230			APR 2 2024	2024	This study investigated how the difference in the timing of the extension of the joints of the lower limbs during take-off affects the backstroke start performance. Eleven backstroke swimmers performed three lower-limb joint extension sequences of backstroke start: knee extension after hip extension (KAH), simultaneous hip and knee extension (SHK), and knee extension before hip extension (KBH). The shortest 5-m time was performed at KAH (1.90 +/- 0.26 s), followed by a performance at SHK (2.12 +/- 0.52 s) and KBH (2.47 +/- 0.61 s). The greater trochanter (GT) vertical positions at toe-off were higher at KAH and SHK than at KBH. KAH had a shorter entry range, defined as the horizontal distance from the fingertip (FT) to the GT entry in the water, than KBH and SHK. A positive correlation was noted between the entry range and the 5-m time at KAH (r = 0.79). In addition, a negative correlation was observed between the GT vertical position at toe-off and the entry range at KAH (r = -0.65). The results suggested that KAH makes it easier to take the arched-back posture after toe-off, allowing the performance of a hole-entry technique that reduces the entry range and the 5-m time.		[Nara, Rio; Ikeda, Yusuke; Shimojo, Hirofumi; Sato, Daisuke; Ichikawa, Hiroshi; Baba, Yasuhiro; Shimoyama, Yoshimitsu] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Hlth & Sports, Niigata, Japan; [Nara, Rio] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Hlth & Sports, Niigata, Japan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000617967100001	21	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Hui; Yu, Bing								Rotation of the thrower-discus system and performance in discus throwing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	5			624	639		10.1080/14763141.2021.1880619			MAY 3 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of thrower-discus system rotation on performance in discus throwing. The resultant angular momentum of the thrower-discus system and direction cosines of the angular momentum vector were calculated from kinematic data at five critical instants of discus throwing for 28 female and 15 male elite discus throwers, and compared between their long and short trials in actual competition. Compared to short trials, elite female throwers' long trials had significantly less angular momentum at right foot takeoff and left foot takeoff (P <= 0.023), and significantly less top-to-left rotation at right foot takeoff, left foot takeoff, left foot touchdown, and release (P <= 0.007), and significantly greater right-to-left rotation at left foot touchdown and release (P <= 0.009) in long trials. Compared to their short trials, elite male throwers had significantly less top-to-left and top-to-front rotations at left foot touchdown (P <= 0.042), and significantly less total angular momentum at release (P = 0.043) in long trials. Elite discus throwers should control the amount of rotations of the thrower-discus system to reduce the top-to-left roll of the discus during the flight to extend the aerodynamic distance.		[Liu, Hui] Beijing Sport Univ, China Inst Sports & Hlth, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yu, Bing] Univ N Carolina, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Div Phys Therapy, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Yu, Bing] Univ N Carolina, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Div Phys Therapy, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625774700001	18	Article; Article		
J	Tanaka, Miho J.; Forman, Jared M.; Otwell, Alexandra G.; Frischmann, Leah D.; Jones, Lynne C.; Szymanski, Linda M.								Characterization of knee dysfunction and related risk factors during pregnancy								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	1			78	83		10.1080/00913847.2021.1882277			JAN 2 2022	2022	Background: Knee pain can be a common complaint during pregnancy; however, the severity of symptoms and their associated risk factors have not been described. Questions/purposes: The aim of this study was to characterize knee-related dysfunction and describe risk factors in a general obstetric population. Patients and methods: Patients in obstetric clinics completed the International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC) questionnaire to assess their knee function, as well as the Pregnancy Physical Activity Questionnaire (PPAQ), a validated tool to assess physical activity. Age, weeks gestation, height, weight, and history of knee problems prior to pregnancy were analyzed to identify independent associations with IKDC score and determine predictors of knee dysfunction. Results: 310 patients were included in this study, of which 68, 111 and 131 were in their first, second and trimesters, respectively. Mean age of the total study group was 30.3 +/- 5.5 years. Knee function decreased with each trimester, from a mean IKDC score of 88.9 +/- 13.0 in the first trimester, 84.5 +/- 16.8 in the second, and 82.0 +/- 20.0 in the third, with corresponding decreases in activity levels of 258.5 +/- 141.7, 254.0 +/- 141.5, and 246.1 +/- 156.6 MET-h/wk. Of the total study group, 26.1% had IKDC scores <75, including 13.2%, 25.2%, and 33.6% in the first, second and third trimesters. Risk factors for knee dysfunction included high activity levels of PPAQ >= 500 MET-h/wk (OR 2.8), history of knee problems (OR 2.7), age <25 years (OR 2.6), and BMI >= 30 kg/m(2) (OR 1.9). Conclusion: In our cohort, 26.1% of pregnant women reported severe knee dysfunction, and this was associated with high levels of activity, younger age, greater BMI, and history of knee problems. These findings may have implications for women who wish to maintain training and fitness during pregnancy. Future studies are recommended to assess the need for intervention, as well as to identify optimal methods to prevent and address symptoms in this population.		[Tanaka, Miho J.] Harvard Med Sch, Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Forman, Jared M.; Otwell, Alexandra G.; Frischmann, Leah D.; Jones, Lynne C.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Baltimore, MD USA; [Szymanski, Linda M.] Mayo Clin, Div Maternal Fetal Med, Rochester, MD USA; [Tanaka, Miho J.] Harvard Med Sch, Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA 02115 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000616910200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Curran-Sills, Gwynn; Levitan, Mark; Yeasmin, Fahmida								Evaluation of the early weigh-in policy for mixed martial arts events adopted by North American athletic commissions								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	1			71	77		10.1080/00913847.2021.1881414			JAN 2 2022	2022	Objective: To characterize the epidemiology of overweight athletes before and after the introduction of the Early Weigh-In Policy (EWIP). Methods: A retrospective cohort study examined the weigh-in results for professional mixed martial arts (MMA) events over a 2-year period around the introduction of the new EWIP between 2014 and 2018. Descriptive statistics were used to characterize the study populations. Risk ratios were used to identify differences in the study populations before and after the introduction of the EWIP. Results: After the introduction of the EWIP, the number of overweight athletes increased from 5.7% to 8.4% and the average overweight mass increased from 1.3 kg (2.9 lbs) to 1.8 kg (3.9 lbs) [difference, 0.5 kg (1.0 lb), p = 4.35 x 10<^>(-5)]. The proportion of athletes is not distributed similarly across the different overweight mass categories when comparing the pre- and post-EWIP time frames (p = 0.006). More athletes in the pre-EWIP period were overweight by smaller amount, while in the post-EWIP period athletes were overweight by larger amount. Of the athletes who were overweight before the regulation change, 28.7% were over the weight limit by greater than 1.8 kg (4 lbs), compared to 39.5% after the new EWIP introduction. On average, the ratio of overweight athletes per events by commission was 1.2 before the introduction of the EWIP and 2.1 after. Conclusion: These results appear to indicate that the EWIP has not altered weight-cutting culture in MMA in a positive manner. This study casts doubt on the benefits of an EWIP and raised the possibility of utilizing the longitudinal weight monitoring approach to mitigate rapid weight-cycling behavior. However, before additional changes are made by any athletic commission, further research is needed to examine the efficacy of the abovementioned longitudinal weight monitoring approach or any other strategy.		[Curran-Sills, Gwynn; Yeasmin, Fahmida] Univ Calgary, Dept Family Med, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Curran-Sills, Gwynn] Canadian Armed Forces, 15 Field Ambulance, Calgary Detachment, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Levitan, Mark] Northern Ontario Sch Med, Dept Family Med, Thunder Bay, ON, Canada; [Yeasmin, Fahmida] Univ Calgary, Dept Math & Stat, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Curran-Sills, Gwynn] 238 Grand River St N, Paris, ON N3L 2M7, Canada								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000616188100001	29	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Hoon; Palmieri-Smith, Riann; Kipp, Kristof								Peak Forces and Force Generating Capacities of Lower Extremity Muscles During Dynamic Tasks in People With and Without Chronic Ankle Instability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	4			487	500		10.1080/14763141.2020.1869295			APR 21 2022	2022	People with chronic ankle instability (CAI) exhibit neuromuscular deficits. However, no study has investigated deficits in forces or force-generating capacities of individual muscles in people with CAI during dynamic tasks. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to estimate and compare peak forces and force-generating capacities of individual muscles during dynamic tasks in people with CAI and healthy controls (CON). Eleven people with CAI and eleven CON performed landing, anticipated cutting, and unanticipated cutting as motion capture, force plate, and electromyography data were recorded. A musculoskeletal model was used to estimate the force and force-generating capacity of lower extremity muscles. People with CAI exhibited greater gluteus maximus force and force-generating capacity than CON during all tasks. In addition, people with CAI exhibited greater force-generating capacity of the vastii muscles than CON during the unanticipated cutting task. These findings suggest that, during dynamic tasks, people with CAI exhibit a neuromuscular control strategy that is characterised by differences in peak forces and force-generating capacities of proximal muscles, which may allow them to compensate for previously described deficits in distal muscles.		[Kim, Hoon; Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Program Exercise Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Palmieri-Smith, Riann] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Palmieri-Smith, Riann] Univ Michigan, Orthopaed & Rehabil Biomech Lab, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; Univ Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Kim, Hoon] Marquette Univ, Program Exercise Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000615822400001	39	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Tsung-Han; Chen, Wei-Han; Shih, Yo; Lin, Yi-Chih; Yu, Chien; Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang								Better position for the wearable sensor to monitor badminton sport training loads								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	4			503	515		10.1080/14763141.2021.1875033			APR 2 2024	2024	This study purposed to identify the better accelerometer location for monitoring badminton sports training load by investigating the correlation between internal (HR, training impulse [TRIMP]) training load and external (acceleration, player load [PL]) training loads measured from 5 different body locations. Twelve college-level badminton athletes wore a HR transmitter belt and five accelerometers fixed on both hands, legs, and lower back while performing continuous three-minute training of four badminton skills including backhand serve (BS), net shot (NS), footwork training (FT), and jump smash (JS). Results showed PL at the five locations were significantly related to TRIMP (r = 0.570-0.843, p < 0.05), in which PL at lower back has highest Pearson (r = 0.843) and partial (r = 0.366) correlated to TRIMP (p < 0.05). Base on the stepwise multiple regression, PL at lower back and racket hand explained 88% of the variance of TRIMP (R-2 = 0.879). In conclusion, lower back is an idea location for accelerometer to monitor overall external training load in badminton if considering one accelerometer location, while combining PL at the lower back and racket hand can predict 88% of the variation of the internal training load.		[Liu, Tsung-Han; Lin, Yi-Chih] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Liu, Tsung-Han] Victor Rackets Ind Corp, Div Shoe & Bag Business, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chen, Wei-Han; Yu, Chien; Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chen, Wei-Han] Univ Taipei, Grad Inst Sports Equipment Technol, Taipei, Taiwan; [Shih, Yo] Univ Nevada, Dept Phys Therapy, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Yu, Chien] Tunghai Univ, Off Phys Educ, Taichung, Taiwan; [Shiang, Tzyy-Yuang] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, Taipei, Taiwan								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625830900001	36	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Ben; Hope, Ed; Hammond, Andrew; Moran, Jason; Leeder, Thomas; Mills, John; Sandercock, Gavin								Play more, enjoy more, keep playing; rugby is a simple game								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			636	645	1747954121991444	10.1177/1747954121991444			JUN 2021	2021	Drop out and attrition rates in youth sport are well-documented in the literature. Research has found that children overwhelmingly state that enjoyment, fun, and positive experiences are the primary reasons to participate in sport. Competitive Engineering (CE) is a structurally-based competitive climate process designed to create a more positive experience in youth sport. CE encompasses changes to league structures, equipment, pitch-size, and game rules. For example, rule changes that stipulate greater involvement (e.g., playing time) or action (e.g., increasing scoring opportunities) are designed to improve engagement. Despite this, few studies have examined whether CE-based rule changes influence factors known to influence drop out from sport. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of a rule change in youth rugby whereby any player selected as part of a match day squad must play at least half a game or equivalent (i.e., the 'Half-Game Rule'). To achieve this, we studied the influence of the rule change on player reported outcomes throughout the 2017/2018 playing season. Players who "always or almost always" experienced playing at least half a game more often than other players; reported higher enjoyment, than those who played less regularly (F = 35.6, P < .001). Importantly, players who reported higher levels of enjoyment also reported greater intentions to continue playing rugby (F = 6.4, P < .002). Findings support the use of CE to facilitate player enjoyment in team sports and could lead to reduced attrition in youth sport more generally.		[Jones, Ben; Hope, Ed; Hammond, Andrew; Moran, Jason; Leeder, Thomas; Mills, John; Sandercock, Gavin] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Colchester, Essex, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ Essex, Wivenhoe Campus, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000619970000001	69	Article; Article		
J	Coutinho, Patricia; Ramos, Ana; Fonseca, Antonio M.; Davids, Keith; Mesquita, Isabel								The nature of formative physical activities and sports in the development of senior volleyball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			731	740	1747954121992040	10.1177/1747954121992040			JUN 2021	2021	This study characterized developmental sporting activities undertaken by volleyball players between ages of 6 to 12 years. Highly skilled (n = 30) and less skilled (n = 30) players participated in retrospective interviews to identify the nature of their formative enrichment experiences (formal adult-led and informal child-led activities) and types of sports practised (team or individual sports). All participants reported involvement in multiple formal sport activities and informal child-led activities, confirming that they did not specialize early in volleyball. Highly skilled male players reported being involved in more formal, adult-led activities, generally, and more formal team sports. In contrast, highly skilled and less skilled female players participated in equal amounts of formal adult-led and informal child-led activities. Results partially supported the value of an early diversified sport involvement to develop functional behavioural adaptability needed to specialise later in sports like volleyball. Findings highlighted the importance of considering the nature and types of early enriching play and practice activities to better understand possible complementary transfer of training effects during specialization. Data also emphasized relevance of considering sex differences in future analyses of player developmental pathways.		[Coutinho, Patricia; Ramos, Ana; Fonseca, Antonio M.; Mesquita, Isabel] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Human Performance & Sport, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Coutinho, Patricia] Rua Doutor Placido Costa 91, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000619973400001	55	Article; Article		
J	O'Neill, Kathy E.; Psycharakis, Stelios G.								The effect of back squat depth and load on lower body muscle activity in group exercise participants								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	5			555	566		10.1080/14763141.2021.1875034			MAY 3 2024	2024	Les Mills BODYPUMPTM is a resistance training group exercise class with a low load, high repetition format. Squat training in BODYPUMPTM has two key variables: depth and load. The study aim was to determine the effect of these parameters on the mean and peak EMG amplitude of vastus lateralis, gluteus maximus, biceps femoris and lateral gastrocnemius. Ten female BODYPUMPTM participants (age 41 +/- 9 years, height 161.9 +/- 3.8 cm, mass 67.7 +/- 7.0 kg) performed 1 x 7 squats under four conditions, representing every combination of two depths (90 degrees knee angle and 125 degrees knee angle) and two loads (23% bodyweight and 38% bodyweight). The main effect of depth was significant for mean and peak activity of vastus lateralis and gluteus maximus, and peak activity of biceps femoris and lateral gastrocnemius. The main effect of load was significant for mean and peak activity of gluteus maximus and lateral gastrocnemius. There was no depth * load interaction. These data can be used to inform BODYPUMPTM programme design and amplify the training effect of participation in group exercise classes.		[O'Neill, Kathy E.; Psycharakis, Stelios G.] Univ Edinburgh, Moray House Sch Educ & Sport, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Psycharakis, Stelios G.] Univ Edinburgh, Moray House Sch Educ & Sport, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625520900001	22	Article; Article		
J	Brtva, Pavel; Irwin, Gareth; Farana, Roman								The effect of changes in fundamental skill complexity on upper limb loading and biomechanical characteristics of performance in female gymnastics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	5			567	581		10.1080/14763141.2021.1876755			MAY 3 2024	2024	Aims of this study were to investigate if changes in elbow and wrist joints loading and biomechanical characteristics of performance existed as a function of (a) different hand placement and (b) fundamental skills development in female gymnastics. Ten female gymnasts performed 54 successful trials of round-off skills (cartwheel [18], round-off [18], round-off to back handspring [18]), with three different hand positions (parallel, T-shape and reverse). Kinematic and kinetic data were collected for each trial. A two-way repeated measures ANOVA was used to analyse the injury risk factors. Findings of the current study showed that an increase in RO skill difficulty level significantly influences the mechanical load on the upper extremities. With the increase in mechanical load on the upper extremities during the reverse and parallel hand positions, this study suggests that that T-shape hand position should be used as the primary technique for the young female. Differences in vertical velocity from touchdown to take-off between the three hand positions for the RO and RO-BH suggested that the reverse position was less effective for young female gymnasts. The findings of the current study demonstrated no clear performance benefits between hand position selection.		[Brtva, Pavel; Irwin, Gareth; Farana, Roman] Univ Ostrava, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Irwin, Gareth] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Brtva, Pavel] Univ Ostrava, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000625760500001	37	Article; Article		
J	Reilly, Barry; Witt, Robert								The Effect of League Design on Spectator Attendance: A Regression Discontinuity Design Approach								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	5			514	545	1527002521989393	10.1177/1527002521989393			JUN 2021	2021	This paper exploits a sharp regression discontinuity design to identify the causal impact of the Scottish Premiership League (SPL) "split" on spectator match attendance. We use data drawn from all 19 completed seasons for which this institutional arrangement has been in place. The causal effect of the "split" is to induce, for the last five rounds of games played in the season, a differential in average attendance of about 24% between the clubs that just qualify for the "Championship Play-off" section and those that do not. However, the annualized effect for the season is found to be modest.		[Reilly, Barry] Univ Sussex, Business Sch, Dept Econ, Brighton, E Sussex, England; [Witt, Robert] Univ Surrey, Sch Econ, Guildford GU2 7XH, Surrey, England; [Witt, Robert] London Sch Econ, Ctr Econ Performance, Houghton St, London WC2A 2AE, England; [Witt, Robert] Univ Surrey, Sch Econ, Guildford GU2 7XH, Surrey, England; [Witt, Robert] London Sch Econ, Ctr Econ Performance, Houghton St, London WC2A 2AE, England								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000620747600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Elfmark, Ola; Ettema, Gertjan								Aerodynamic investigation of the inrun position in Ski jumping								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	4			455	469		10.1080/14763141.2020.1871503			APR 2 2024	2024	This study aims to investigate the inrun position in ski-jumping, in search for factors increasing the inrun speed without compromising the take-off. The inrun position of eight World Cup (WC) and fifteen Continental Cup (COC) ski jumpers were investigated in a wind tunnel at NTNU. A preferred position, replicating a jumper's position in competition, was measured for each athlete. Improvements, based on common sense aerodynamics, with the aim to improve the aerodynamic drag were executed. The aerodynamically best of these was compared with the preferred position. A numerical model simulating the inrun speed in ski-jumping hills was used to evaluate the impact the results will have in different hill sizes, for comparisons of drag measurements and inrun speed in competitions. In the preferred position, COC had 15.5% higher drag area than the WC athletes. In their best tested position, a group difference of 10.8% was found. These differences correspond with speed differences between 0.4 and 1.3 kmh(-1), or 1-3 gates (as found by the numerical model). Group difference in drag was explained by a larger trunk angle for COC. Both groups improved from their preferred to their best position, due to reductions in thigh and leg angle.		[Elfmark, Ola] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Ctr Sport Facil & Technol, Dept Civil & Environm Engn, Trondheim, Norway; [Ettema, Gertjan] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Ctr Elite Sports Res, Dept Neuromed & Movement Sci, Trondheim, Norway; [Elfmark, Ola] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Ctr Sport Facil & Technol, Dept Civil & Environm Engn, Trondheim, Norway								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000614573900001	18	Article; Article		
J	Wekesser, Meredith M.; Harris, Brandonn S.; Langdon, Jody; Wilson, Charles H., Jr.								Coaches' impact on youth athletes' intentions to continue sport participation: The mediational influence of the coach-athlete relationship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			490	499	1747954121991817	10.1177/1747954121991817			JUN 2021	2021	About 70% of youth athletes drop out of sport by age 13. Self-determination theory has been utilised to investigate athletes' motivations for behaviours including sport persistence (i.e. continuation) and suggests that the coach can be an influence on such motivations. Basic need fulfillment via interpersonal coaching behaviours, the coach-athlete relationship (CAR), and intentions to continue sport participation have been examined independently and in various combinations and directions, but these variables have not been examined collectively in this manner. The purpose of this study was to determine if CAR quality mediates the relationship between interpersonal coaching behaviours and intentions to continue sport participation. Surveys were administered to 148 athletes ages 11 to 16 from organised sports teams. No significant indirect effects of mediation could be established. However, there was a significant and direct effect of competence-supportive behaviours on intentions (beta = .341, p < .001). Overall, the total effects model was significant (F(1,146) = 18.762, p < .001, adjusted R-2 = .114). Significant positive relationships were shown among supportive coach behaviours and CAR quality in addition to CAR quality and intentions. Negative relationships were demonstrated among thwarting coach behaviours and CAR quality. Results support that coaches' competence-supportive behaviours can positively impact CAR quality and intentions to continue sport participation in youth athletes.		[Wekesser, Meredith M.; Harris, Brandonn S.; Langdon, Jody; Wilson, Charles H., Jr.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30460 USA; [Wekesser, Meredith M.] Michigan State Univ, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								43							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000619974600001	48	Article; Article		
J	Goggins, Luke; McKay, Carly; Peirce, Nicholas; Stokes, Keith; Williams, Sean								"You come up with different theories every year": Practitioner perceptions of injury risk factors and player monitoring practices in elite men's domestic cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			804	814	1747954121990354	10.1177/1747954121990354			JUN 2021	2021	The aim of the current study was to capture and better understand the current perceptions of injury risk factors and player monitoring practices in elite men's domestic senior cricket, to help guide practice in this setting. A cross-sectional mixed-methods design was used, consisting of a quantitative survey sent to science and medicine practitioners at all English County clubs (n = 23, with representation from each club) and a set of qualitative interviews (n = 10 from six County clubs). Previous injury and physical fitness were the intrinsic injury risk factors most frequently endorsed as being important, with reduced recovery time and congested match schedules the most frequently endorsed extrinsic risk factors. Monitoring bowling overs was the most common tool for continually assessing injury risk. Player adherence was perceived to be the main factor impacting effective monitoring, along with human resource and practical application of monitoring knowledge. The interviews revealed that communicating value, fostering effective working relationships, and a strong club culture were important for successfully implementing monitoring and prevention initiatives. Cricket presents distinct challenges for its practitioners, and more education and guidance on appropriate monitoring methods and analysis is needed.		[Goggins, Luke; McKay, Carly; Stokes, Keith; Williams, Sean] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Peirce, Nicholas] Loughborough Univ, Natl Cricket Performance Ctr, England & Wales Cricket Board, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Goggins, Luke] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000619966900001	35	Article; Article		
J	Escalante, Guillermo; Fine, Daniel; Ashworth, Kyle; Kolber, Morey J.								Progressive Exercise Strategies to Mitigate Shoulder Injuries Among Weight-Training Participants								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	1			72	85					FEB 2021	2021	Nontraumatic shoulder disorders are prevalent among weight-training participants as a result of training patterns as well as adaptive shoulder joint and muscle characteristics. This article presents a progressive approach to exercises designed to mitigate well-known joint and muscle characteristics that have been associated with shoulder disorders. Using a progressive evidence-based model, practical applications are presented that will guide sports medicine and strength training professionals in their ability to provide an evidence-informed upper extremity weight-training program for both patients and clients.		[Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Dept Kinesiol, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA; [Fine, Daniel; Ashworth, Kyle; Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Dept Kinesiol, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656645300007	48	Article; Article		
J	McKenzie, Alec K.; Crowley-McHattan, Zachary J.; Meir, Rudi; Whitting, John W.; Volschenk, Wynand								Glenohumeral Extension and the Dip: Considerations for the Strength and Conditioning Professional								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	1			93	100		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000579			FEB 2021	2021	A significant number of resistance training injuries occur at the shoulder complex. However, there is a lack of research identifying predictive variables, which may increase the risk of these injuries. Certain exercises, such as those requiring the apprehension position (glenohumeral abduction with external rotation), have been investigated and found to be associated with shoulder pain and injury. However, there are additional exercises or positions that may also be associated with increased injury risk. The position of end-range glenohumeral extension, particularly as it pertains to a dip, is a vulnerable position that may have previously been overlooked.		[McKenzie, Alec K.; Crowley-McHattan, Zachary J.; Meir, Rudi; Whitting, John W.; Volschenk, Wynand] Southern Cross Univ, Sports & Exercise Sci Dept, Lismore, NSW, Australia; [McKenzie, Alec K.] Southern Cross Univ, Sports & Exercise Sci Dept, Lismore, NSW, Australia								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656645300009	46	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Anthony N.; Comfort, Paul; McMahon, John; Bishop, Chris; Chavda, Shyam; Read, Paul; Mundy, Peter; Lake, Jason								Developing Powerful Athletes Part 2: Practical Applications								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	1			23	31		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000544			FEB 2021	2021	In part 1 of this two-part review, we addressed the recent criticisms of the use of terms such as power, rate of force development, and explosiveness, over impulse. These terms were distinguished mechanically and conceptually for the benefit of the scientist and coach. In part 2, we use the key mechanical parameters underpinning power development and its relationship with the force-time characteristics and force-velocity profile of sporting movements, to evidence the planning of training drills and assist the strength and conditioning coach in devising periodized training programs.		[Turner, Anthony N.; Comfort, Paul; Chavda, Shyam] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, London, England; [McMahon, John; Bishop, Chris] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Salford, Lancs, England; [McMahon, John] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Read, Paul] Aspetar Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Mundy, Peter] Coventry Univ, Priory St, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Lake, Jason] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Chichester, England; [Turner, Anthony N.] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, London, England								34							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656645300003	48	Article; Article		
J	Nuzzo, James L.								Time to Reconsider Foot and Leg Position During the Bench Press								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	1			101	106		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000562			FEB 2021	2021	The "feet on the floor" guideline for the bench press is a historical byproduct of old bench designs. The "psoas-relaxed position," where the hips and knees are flexed and the feet rest on adjustable plates at the end of the bench, should be considered to replace existing guidelines. The psoas-relaxed position accommodates lifters of all body heights, is more sport-specific than current bench press posture, and reduces lumbar lordosis and increases the cross-sectional area of the dural sac and spinal canal, making the exercise more viable for certain back pain patients. Steps to implementation include research on bench press postural preferences, development of adjustable foot plates, and formal revision to bench press guidelines.										0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656645300010	70	Article; Article		
J	Ryan, Greg A.; Cook, Jordan; Adams, Kara								Strength and Conditioning for Patients Recovering From Guillain-Barre Syndrome								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	1			107	115					FEB 2021	2021	Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) is an acute autoimmune disease which can result in whole-body residual weakness for years after diagnosis. Research suggests that, along with medical treatment, exercise may aid in recovery for patients by minimizing the severity of side effects associated with GBS. Practices, contraindications, considerations, and general recommendations for whole-body cardiorespiratory, resistance, and flexibility exercise programming and progression for GBS patients are discussed throughout.		[Ryan, Greg A.; Cook, Jordan; Adams, Kara] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA; [Ryan, Greg A.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656645300011	31	Article; Article		
J	Rawlley-Singh, Ishan; King, Ryan								Developing a Strength and Conditioning Technical Framework: An Example From a Canoe Slalom National Performance Program								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	1			1	11		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000551			FEB 2021	2021	Canoe slalom requires technical ability, well-developed energetics, a high level of maximum force production, and range of movement to perform a variety of complex paddle stokes, while maneuvering through a challenging whitewater course. The strength and conditioning (S&C) coach should provide strategic direction across a network or department including S&C coaches working toward identified outcomes and measures. S&C coaches should collaborate with a multidisciplinary support team (i.e., sport coaches, physiotherapists, physiologists, etc.) to develop a technical framework. The technical framework may allow for development of training strategies that provide a clear breakdown of the outcomes, adaptations, exercises, and testing methods. The current article articulates this process related to a canoe slalom national performance program.		[Rawlley-Singh, Ishan] Chinese Olymp Comm, Beijing, Peoples R China; [King, Ryan] Football Assoc, London, England; [Rawlley-Singh, Ishan] Chinese Olymp Comm, Beijing, Peoples R China								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656645300001	33	Article; Article		
J	Raya-Gonzalez, Javier; Castillo, Daniel; Beato, Marco								The Flywheel Paradigm in Team Sports: A Soccer Approach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				43	1			12	22		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000561			FEB 2021	2021	Strength training is a key strategy to improve performance and injury prevention in team sports. Accordingly, several methods have been used, although because of the benefits reported after training based on eccentric contractions, the use of flywheel (FW) devices has extended within the periodization of strength training of team sports. However, nowadays, there is no clear consensus about the parameters used to optimize the training effects. This article examines the research behind these claims and attempts to draw evidence-based conclusions as to the practical implications for a precise use of FW with team-sport players, attending to their specific demands and objectives.		[Raya-Gonzalez, Javier; Castillo, Daniel] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Ipswich, Suffolk, England; [Castillo, Daniel] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000656645300002	92	Article; Article		
J	Brook, Stacey L.								A Comparison of NCAA FBS Head Coaches Salary Determination From New and Modified Contracts								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	5			491	513	1527002520988336	10.1177/1527002520988336			JUN 2021	2021	Previous research examines head football coaches' salary only using aggregate athletic department revenues. Using detailed football program fixed and variable revenues provided in the NCAA Membership Financial Reporting System data, head football coaches signing either new and modified contracts are able to capture both variable and fixed revenues when negotiating salaries. Additionally, for the two other labor groups (student athletes and assistant head coaches), assistant head coaches salary is positive and statistically significant with respect to head coaches' salary, while student athletes aid is statistically insignificant, possibly due to the cap imposed on student athletic aid during this time period.		[Brook, Stacey L.] DePaul Univ, Driehaus Coll Business, Dept Econ, I E Jackson Blvd,Room 6203, Chicago, IL 60604 USA; [Brook, Stacey L.] DePaul Univ, Driehaus Coll Business, Dept Econ, I E Jackson Blvd,Room 6203, Chicago, IL 60604 USA								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000620755400001	26	Article; Article		
J	Charles, Marc; Ouchchane, Lemlih; Thivel, David; Celine, Lambert; Duclos, Martine								Does legislative framework favors prescription of physical activity in primary care ? The French experience								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	1			47	53		10.1080/00913847.2020.1864676			JAN 2 2022	2022	Objective Regular physical activity (PA) is a key element in chronic disease management. We studied the effect of a recent legislative framework given to physical activity prescription (PAP) on practices, motivations, barriers, and needs for PAP in primary care among general practitioners (GP) of the Auvergne-Rhone-Alpes region, France. Methods Our cross-sectional survey used a self-administrated questionnaire through two recruitment methods: e-mail address (online group) and face-to-face (office group). Based on the data pertaining to demography, motivation scores, needs, and barriers, we analyzed the profiles of participating GPs. Results Among the 283 GPs, online participants (n = 250) were younger than office participants (n = 33) (46 +/- 11 vs. 51 +/- 12 years, p = 0.0083), and were physically more active (80% vs 51%, p = 0.0006). Regular PA was also critical in the profile of current prescribers (OR = 2.83 (95%CI [1.28, 7.00]), p = 0.015). The motivation score for PAP was high and equal in both groups (10.5 +/- 3.3 in a maximum of 15), but multiple barriers emerged, which demonstrated age-dependent variations in the score. Young GPs mostly identified self-imposed barriers (exercise referral, PAP training), while for older GPs these barriers were equally attributable to patients. Conclusion Although the legislative framework given to PAP in France was associated with a 12% increase in the number of prescribers, PA remains poorly prescribed in primary care, even among the most motivated physicians.		[Charles, Marc] CHU Clermont Ferrand, Dept Sante Publ, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Ouchchane, Lemlih] Univ Clermont Auvergne, CHU Clermont Ferrand, Inst Pascal, CNRS,SIGMA Clermont, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Ouchchane, Lemlih] CHU Clermont Ferrand, Unite Biostat & Informat Med, Dept Sante Publ, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Thivel, David] Univ Clermont Auvergne, Lab Adaptat Metab Exercice Condit Physiol & Path, AME2P, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Celine, Lambert] CHU Clermont Ferrand, Dept Med Sport & Explorat Fonct, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Duclos, Martine] Univ Clermont Auvergne, INRA, UMR, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Duclos, Martine] Clermont Ferrand Univ Hosp, Biostat Unit, 58 Rue Montalembert, F-63000 Clermont Ferrand, France; [Charles, Marc] CHU Clermont Ferrand, Serv Med Sport & Explorat Fonct, F-63003 Clermont Ferrand, France								17							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000617955400001	24	Article; Article		
J	Clarke, Anthea; Govus, Andrew; Donaldson, Alex								What male coaches want to know about the menstrual cycle in women's team sports: Performance, health, and communication								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			544	553	1747954121989237	10.1177/1747954121989237			JUN 2021	2021	This study aimed to identify what male coaches of elite female team sport athletes want to know about the menstrual cycle and its influence on athlete health and performance. Using a mixed-methods concept mapping approach, 18 male coaches of Australian female elite football-codes brainstormed what they wanted to know about the menstrual cycle to work more effectively with female athletes. Ideas were sorted into groups of similar ideas and rated for importance and influence. Thirty-eight unique statements emerged from the brainstorming. These were organised into five clusters/topics following multidimensional scaling and hierarchical cluster analysis: 1) How does training need to be managed; 2) How is physical performance impacted; 3) What are the medical and dietary considerations; 4) When and how should we communicate with athletes; and 5) How are athletes affected psychologically and emotionally. These findings highlight the need for a comprehensive education framework to improve the knowledge of and practices related to the menstrual cycle. This education should 1) facilitate better recognition and referral of female athletes regarding menstrual cycle dysfunction and related health concerns; 2) encourage collaboration between athletes, coaches, and medical and dietary professionals; and 3) promote effective communication between athletes and coaches about the menstrual cycle.		[Clarke, Anthea; Govus, Andrew] La Trobe Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci Allied Hlth Human Serv & Spo, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Donaldson, Alex] La Trobe Univ, Ctr Sport & Social Impact, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Clarke, Anthea] La Trobe Univ, Hlth Sci, 1 Bldg, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								70							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000610300100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Crespo, Miguel; Jimenez, Jorge								Analysis of the differences in serve effectiveness between Billie Jean King Cup (former Fed Cup) and Davis Cup doubles tennis matches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			777	783	1747954120988545	10.1177/1747954120988545			JUN 2021	2021	The doubles game has considerable relevance in professional tennis, especially in team competitions such as the Billie Jean King Cup (former Fed Cup) (BJKC) and the Davis Cup (DC). However, there are very few studies that have carried out quantitative notational analysis to provide information on the specific features of this tennis modality. The goal of this study was to analyse the differences in serve direction and effectiveness of male and female teams in matches played at BJKC and DC ties. A total of 29,207 serves; 7,578 of BJKC and 21,628 of DC matches were analysed. The data was obtained through the Hawk-Eye system. The results showed that with the first serve, both BJKC and DC teams tried to move the receiver by serving to zones W (wide) and T to take the initiative of the point, while with the second serve teams took lower risks and mainly served to zone B (body). In general, in DC matches the effectiveness of the serve was greater than in BJKC ones. The first serve effectiveness in DC matches was found to be higher in each direction, while the differences in the effectiveness of the second serve was only found in the zone C (body) of the advantage service box. This information can be particularly relevant for coaches to design the doubles training sessions and the strategic planning of doubles matches on reliable and quantitative information.		[Martinez-Gallego, Rafael; Jimenez, Jorge] Univ Valencia, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Valencia, Spain; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, Valencia, Spain; [Martinez-Gallego, Rafael] Univ Valencia, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Valencia, Spain								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000611047100001	38	Article; Article		
J	Filipcic, Ales; Leskosek, Bojan; Crespo, Miguel; Filipcic, Tjasa								Matchplay characteristics and performance indicators of male junior and entry professional tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			768	776	1747954120988002	10.1177/1747954120988002			JUN 2021	2021	Performance analysis during match play is vital for the long-term development of tennis players. The primary goal of this study was to establish the differences between junior and entry professional tennis player's selected performance indicators in five-game situations. Data were collected using the Sagit/Tennis tracking system during six junior and four professional tennis matches. Eight boys performed 3,112 strokes, while eight male professional players hit 1,631 strokes. The results showed slight differences in the distance covered by the two observed groups in the specific game situations. Professional players performed faster shots in all game situations, except when playing at the net. They played at a significantly faster tempo than the juniors. This difference was also affected by the higher shots speed and shorter distance between the two players during the rallies. When playing from the baseline, the entry professional players performed shots at a smaller angle than the juniors; and when serving, receiving and playing at the net, they hit shots at a greater angle than the juniors. Our findings may assist coaches and players in improving the effectiveness of their tactical and technical training to enhance their competitive performance.		[Filipcic, Ales; Leskosek, Bojan] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Crespo, Miguel] Int Tennis Federat, London, England; [Filipcic, Tjasa] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Educ, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Filipcic, Ales] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000610299400001	45	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Jason; Baghurst, Timothy; Cahill, Micheal J.								Current perceptions of strength and conditioning coaches use of sled tow training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			601	607	1747954120988618	10.1177/1747954120988618			JUN 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to assess current perceptions of strength and conditioning coaches' use of sled towing (ST) as part of their training programs. One-hundred and twenty-five coaches responded to a survey of their ST practices. Themes investigated included the primary purpose and usefulness of using ST, the loads used in short and long distances, rest times between sprints, total volume of ST sprints per session, frequency of ST activity each month, and whether coaches engaged in force-velocity profiling in ST sprints. Eighty percent of coaches either agreed or strongly agreed that ST is a useful intervention tool for improving athletic performance. Speed strength was the physiological adaptation most sought after to improve (n = 75) followed by power (n = 72). Bodyweight (BW) loads of 20% were the most common across all distances. The two most common rest times given between each ST repetition were one to two minutes (n = 37) and two to three minutes (n = 37). The most common volume responses for individual training sessions were five to eight sprints (n = 52) and three to five times per month, respectively. These data suggest strength and conditioning coaches view ST as an integral part of programming, primarily use loads of 20% BW for both short and long sprints and seek to optimize a number of different physiological adaptations. The majority of coaches have a favorable view of ST (88%); however, current training parameters used by strength and conditioning coaches may be inadequate to achieve their desired adaptations.		[Williams, Jason] Florida State Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Baghurst, Timothy] Florida State Univ, Interdisciplinary Ctr Athlet Coaching, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Cahill, Micheal J.] Auckland Univ Technol, Athlete Training & Hlth, Performance & Sports Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Williams, Jason] Florida State Univ, 432 Sandels Bldg, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000610285600001	22	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Seungmo; Park, Sanghyun; Love, Adam; Pang, Tsz Ching								Coaching style, sport enjoyment, and intent to continue participation among artistic swimmers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			477	489	1747954120984054	10.1177/1747954120984054			JUN 2021	2021	Using situational leadership models, the current study examined direct and indirect relationships between coaching styles (i.e., democratic and autocratic) and athletes' intent to continue participation via enjoyment in the sport of artistic swimming. Data were collected using an online survey with a snowball sampling method. A total of 202 artistic swimmers at the elite level from 22 countries participated in this study. The findings showed that participants who trained with democratic-style coaches reported higher levels of athletic enjoyment and intent to continue their athletic careers. There was no mediating effect of athletic enjoyment between coaching styles and intent to continue via athletic enjoyment; instead, the results revealed that the direct path between athletic enjoyment and intent to continue was not significant. However, the results supported the direct relationships between both coaching styles and athletic enjoyment and between autocratic coaching style and intent to continue an athletic career.		[Kim, Seungmo; Pang, Tsz Ching] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport Phys Educ & Hlth, Kowloon Tong, 932 Acad & Adm Bldg,15 Baptist Univ Rd Campus, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Park, Sanghyun] Yonsei Univ, Dept Sport Ind Studies, Seoul, South Korea; [Love, Adam] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TN USA; [Kim, Seungmo] Hong Kong Baptist Univ, Dept Sport Phys Educ & Hlth, Kowloon Tong, 932 Acad & Adm Bldg,15 Baptist Univ Rd Campus, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000610304000001	81	Article; Article		
J	Pinto, Brendan L.; Dickerson, Clark R.								Vertical and horizontal barbell kinematics indicate differences in mechanical advantage between using an arched or flat back posture in the barbell bench press exercise								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			756	762	1747954120982954	10.1177/1747954120982954			JUN 2021	2021	Employing an arched back posture during the bench press exercise is increasingly popular. Vertical displacement of the barbell is commonly believed to be the key difference influencing strength performance between an arched and flat back bench press technique. However, comparisons between these back postures using a free weight barbell are lacking. Directly comparing performance between each posture is confounded by many variables such as proficiency and fatigue. This investigation aimed to investigate whether changing back posture alone can influence barbell kinematics, to indirectly assess potential performance differences. Twenty males performed one repetition of the bench press exercise using either an arched or flat back posture, at 25%, 50% and 75% of their one repetition maximum, in a repeated measures study design. Statistical significance was considered at p < 0.05. Changing back posture alone, reduced vertical displacement (approximately 11% average difference across all load conditions) and barbell to glenohumeral joint moment arm (approximately 20% difference) in the arched posture compared to the flat posture. These changes occurred without any specific cueing of the barbell motion and may increase the potential for lifting higher loads and decrease cumulative joint exposure. Additional cueing and training may be required to maximize the mechanical advantage available with each back posture. The arched posture appears to have an increased potential for further improvements in vertical displacement and moment arm through specific cueing. Future comparisons should consider if each back posture's potential mechanical advantage has been maximized when assessing differences between techniques.		[Pinto, Brendan L.; Dickerson, Clark R.] Univ Waterloo, Dept Kinesiol, Waterloo, ON N2L 3G1, Canada; [Dickerson, Clark R.] Univ Waterloo, Dept Kinesiol, Waterloo, ON N2L 3G1, Canada								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000610301700001	29	Article; Article		
J	Baltzopoulos, Vasilios								Inverse dynamics, joint reaction forces and loading in the musculoskeletal system: guidelines for correct mechanical terms and recommendations for accurate reporting of results								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	3			287	300		10.1080/14763141.2020.1841826			MAR 3 2024	2024	Inverse Dynamics is routinely used in biomechanics for the estimation of loading in the musculoskeletal system but there are problems with the terms and definitions and even official recommendations introduce artificial and incorrect mechanical constructs to justify arbitrary and inappropriate terms. These terminology problems lead to further confusion and misinterpretations rather than to standardisation of mechanically correct nomenclature and accurate interpretation of joint loading. The perspective in this paper exposes some of the flawed foundational premises of these constructs and makes recommendations for accurate reporting of inverse dynamics outcomes and musculoskeletal loading. The inverse dynamics approach is based on free body diagrams that include the actual forces as applied ('Actual Forces' approach) or the replacement of actual forces with an equivalent resultant force and moment ('Resultant Moments' approach). Irrespective of the approach used to model the muscle and other forces, the inverse dynamics outputs always include the joint reaction forces representing the interactions with adjacent segments. The different terms suggested to distinguish the calculated joint reaction forces from the two approaches such as 'net joint force', 'resultant force', 'intersegmental force' and 'bone-on-bone force' are inappropriate, misleading and confusing. It is recommended to refer to joint reaction forces as Total or Partial when using an Actual Forces or a Resultant Moments approach, respectively.		[Baltzopoulos, Vasilios] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Baltzopoulos, Vasilios] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England								26							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000607232400001	15	Article; Article		
J	Polanco, Alejandra; Roa, Sergio; Suarez, Daniel R.; Lopez, Omar; Munoz, Luis								Influence of wind speed and road grade on the estimation of drag area in cycling								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	2			222	240		10.1080/14763141.2020.1837925			FEB 1 2024	2024	The estimation of aerodynamic drag in cycling through road tests has the advantage of considering actual cycling conditions. The main drawback is that its accuracy depends on factors of the testing scenario as the wind speed (v(w)) and the road grade (theta). For that reason, the effect of v(w) and. on the estimation of drag area (C(D)A) was studied. Numerical and experimental approaches were combined. The numerical approach investigated the sensitivity of C(D)A to v(w) and theta perturbations. The experimental approach analysed the effect of including or not v(w) and theta on the identification of C(D)A by comparing the changes in the prediction of power delivered. It was found that disregarding small values of v(w) (e. g. 0.5 m/s) and theta (e.g. gradient of 0.05%) leads to errors in the estimation of C(D)A of around 10%, referred to the actual value. It was also obtained that the average error of the power prediction when considering v(w) and theta for the identification of the parameters is about 4.4% and about 25.5% when vw and. are neglected. It is concluded that including v(w) and theta data reduces the error on the identification of C(D)A through outdoor road experiments.		[Polanco, Alejandra; Suarez, Daniel R.] Pontifical Javeriana Univ, Sch Engn, Bogota, Colombia; [Roa, Sergio; Lopez, Omar; Munoz, Luis] Univ Los Andes, Dept Mech Engn, Bogota, Colombia; [Polanco, Alejandra] Pontifical Javeriana Univ, Sch Engn, Bogota, Colombia								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000607242000001	23	Article; Article		
J	Ede, Carlie J.; Yeadon, Maurice R.; Hiley, Michael J.								A kinetic and kinematic comparison of the two-footed and step-out back handsprings on the balance beam								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	3			301	313		10.1080/14763141.2020.1849379			MAR 3 2024	2024	The back handspring is one of the most commonly performed skills on the balance beam in women's gymnastics. Despite this, quantitative research on the beam has often been overlooked. This study aimed to investigate the kinetic and kinematic variables during the performance of two back handspring techniques on the beam: the back handspring with two footed landing and the back handspring step-out. A modified balance beam was fixed to a force plate with an isolated mat for landing to allow analysis of the take-off and hand contact phases. Kinetic and kinematic data were recorded for twelve gymnasts performing both techniques. No statistically significant differences between techniques were found during take-off. However, average peak vertical and horizontal ground reaction forces (4.1 bodyweights +/- 1.1 BW, and 0.7 BW +/- 0.2 BW, respectively) were higher and time to peak force shorter during the hand contact phase for the two footed variant. A more vertical trajectory, along with a greater hand contact ground reaction force were found in comparison to the back handspring performed on the floor. These results highlight the need for more specific investigation to understand the factors which could contribute to reducing the load faced during balance beam performance.		[Ede, Carlie J.; Yeadon, Maurice R.; Hiley, Michael J.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Hiley, Michael J.] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000606877900001	35	Article; Article		
J	Oltmans, Emmeline; Confectioner, Kaizeen; Jonkers, Ruud; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.; Moen, Maarten; Verhagen, Evert; Wylleman, Paul; Gouttebarge, Vincent								A 12-month prospective cohort study on symptoms of mental health disorders among Dutch former elite athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	2			123	131		10.1080/00913847.2020.1868276			MAR 4 2022	2022	Objectives: The primary objectives of the study were to (i) establish the 12-month incidence and comorbidity of symptoms of mental health disorders (distress, anxiety/depression, sleep disturbance, alcohol misuse, disordered eating) among Dutch former elite athletes and (ii) explore the potential relationship with the stressors involuntary retirement, recent life events, career dissatisfaction. The secondary objective was to investigate whether the incidence of symptoms of mental health disorders and their potential relationship with stressors are related to duration since retirement. Methods: An observational prospective cohort study with a 12-month follow-up was conducted among Dutch former elite athletes. Symptoms of mental health disorders and potential stressors were assessed using validated questionnaires. Results: A total of 282 participants were included at baseline and 193 completed follow-up. The incidence ranged from 7% for alcohol misuse to 28% for anxiety/depression. Comorbidity of two or three symptoms of mental health disorders was reported in 7% and 4%, respectively. Adverse life events were significantly related to disordered eating (RR = 1.30, 95%CI = 1.05-1.61), while career dissatisfaction also showed a significant relationship with disordered eating (RR = 3.98, 95%CI = 1.32-11.99) and sleep disturbance (RR = 3.23, 95%CI = 1.10-9.51). The stressor involuntary retirement did not have a significant relationship with any symptoms of mental health disorders. The effect of duration since retirement seemed to be most present in the first 15 years since athletic career retirement in the plotted graphs. Conclusions: The 12-month incidence of symptoms of mental health disorders ranged from 7% to 28% and comorbidity of symptoms of mental health disorders was present in 12%. Adverse life events and career dissatisfaction only increased the risk of certain symptoms of mental health disorders. Duration since retirement might affect the incidence of symptoms of mental health disorders and its relationship with stressors in the first 15 years.		[Oltmans, Emmeline; Confectioner, Kaizeen; Jonkers, Ruud; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.] Univ Amsterdam, Med Ctr, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.; Verhagen, Evert; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Amsterdam UMC IOC Res Ctr Excellence, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Moen, Maarten] Nederlands Olympisch Com Nederlandse Sport Federa, Elite Sports Dept, Arnhem, Netherlands; [Moen, Maarten] Onze Lieve Vrouw Gasthuis, Sportsphys Grp, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Verhagen, Evert; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Verhagen, Evert] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Wylleman, Paul] Vrije Univ Brussel, Dept Sports Policy & Management, Brussels, Belgium; [Oltmans, Emmeline] Amsterdam UMC, Locat AMC, Dept Orthopaed Surg, NL-1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands								13							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000606873600001	48	Article; Article		
J	Fetisova, Yulia; Zois, James; Spittle, Michael; Dawson, Andrew								Coaches' internal model of the tennis serve technique: Knowing or understanding?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			568	584	1747954120984879	10.1177/1747954120984879			JUN 2021	2021	The understanding of coaches' knowledge plays a critical role in coach development. This study aimed to examine the internal models of expert and novice tennis coaches and to identify the key distinguishing characteristics between levels. Data was captured by in-depth interviews and analysed using a combination of qualitative and quantitative methodologies. The results revealed that the internal model consisted of seven components including the "functionality" component that has not been reported previously. A significant difference was detected only in three components of the internal model: "reasoning chains", "concepts" and "key flexion points". The findings led to the conclusion that the main attribute of tennis coaching expertise is not pure technical knowledge but rather the perception of technique as a whole movement and the ability to understand the connection between technical elements. The findings provide a valuable contribution to tennis coach development as it can be applied in coach education to facilitate novice coach development processes.		[Fetisova, Yulia; Zois, James; Spittle, Michael; Dawson, Andrew] Victoria Univ, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Ballarat Rd, Melbourne, Vic 3011, Australia; [Fetisova, Yulia] Victoria Univ, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Ballarat Rd, Melbourne, Vic 3011, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000610318400001	112	Article; Article		
J	Zabaloy, Santiago; Freitas, Tomas T.; Carlos-Vivas, Jorge; Giraldez, Julian C.; Loturco, Irineu; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando; Galvez Gonzalez, Javier; Alcaraz, Pedro E.								Estimation of maximum sprinting speed with timing gates: greater accuracy of 5-m split times compared to 10-m splits								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	3			262	272		10.1080/14763141.2020.1838603			MAR 3 2024	2024	This study assessed the validity of 5-m (TG5) and 10-m (TG10) split times measured with timing gates to estimate maximum sprint speed (MSS) against a criterion measure radar gun (RG) during the maximum velocity phase of a 30-m sprint. Nineteen amateur rugby players performed two 30-m sprints. The timing gates were placed at the starting line and at 5-, 10-, 20-, 25- and 30-m. In addition, a RG was used to measure instantaneous velocity. Both trials per participant were used selected as references. MSS obtained from TG10, TG5 and RG showed high intraclass correlation coefficients (0.971-0.978), low coefficients of variation (1.14-1.70%) and smallest detectable changes (<0.02 m/s). Pairwise comparison revealed differences (p = 0.002) in MSS when comparing TG10 to RG, but not TG5 and RG (p = 0.957). Almost perfect correlations were found between RG, TG5 and TG10 (r > 0.926, p < 0.001). In conclusion, MSS obtained from TG5, TG10 and RG presented good intra-session reliability. However, practitioners should be aware that substantial differences exist between TG10 and RG. For the assessment of MSS in team-sport athletes, it is recommended the use of TG5 for more accurate estimations when a gold standard criterion is not available.		[Zabaloy, Santiago; Giraldez, Julian C.] Univ Flores, Fac Phys Act & Sports, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Zabaloy, Santiago; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando; Galvez Gonzalez, Javier] Pablo Olavide Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Seville, Spain; [Freitas, Tomas T.; Carlos-Vivas, Jorge; Alcaraz, Pedro E.] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, UCAM Res Ctr High Performance Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Freitas, Tomas T.; Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport NAR, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Pareja-Blanco, Fernando] Pablo Olavide Univ, Phys Performance & Athlet Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Alcaraz, Pedro E.] Catholic Univ Murcia UCAM, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Zabaloy, Santiago] Univ Flores, Fac Phys Act & Sports, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Zabaloy, Santiago] Pablo Olavide Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Seville, Spain								33							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000606866800001	41	Article; Article		
J	Logan, Samuel W.								Reference Accuracy in <i>Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport</i>: A 30-Year Follow-Up to Stull et al. (1991)								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			401	411		10.1080/02701367.2020.1853019			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine the reference accuracy of articles from a random sample of issues from 1999, 2009, and 2019 of Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport (RQES). Methods: Up to two issues each of RQES published in 1999, 2009, and 2019 were randomly sampled, and references for articles were verified for accuracy. A total of 1,341 references from 50 articles were verified: 1999 (439 references), 2009 (396 references), and 2019 (506 references). Results: The overall error rate was 40% across the three years (i.e., number of references with at least one error divided by the total number of references and multiplied by 100). Chi-square analyses indicated no significant differences between years for the overall error rate (p > .05): 44% (1999), 38% (2009), and 39% (2019). Chi-square analyses indicated significant differences between years for at least one reference with an error related to author(s) names (p > .05). Chi-square analyses indicated significant differences between years for at least one reference with an error related to the article title. Conclusions: In the author's opinion, an overall error rate of 40% across the three years for RQES is simply too high. Ultimately, it is authors' responsibility to ensure reference accuracy. However, given the unacceptable error rates across fields of study, journals, and publication years, it may be prudent to explore supplemental options to increase reference accuracy in peer-reviewed articles. Reference accuracy is an important issue for authors, editorial offices of journals, and the scientific community.		[Logan, Samuel W.] Oregon State Univ, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Logan, Samuel W.] Oregon State Univ, Coll Publ Hlth & Human Sci, Womens Bldg RM 203D,160 SW 26th St, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Logan, Samuel W.] Oregon State Univ, Coll Publ Hlth & Human Sci, Womens Bldg RM 203D,160 SW 26th St, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000605681200001	20	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Sixto, Alberto; McMahon, John J.; Floria, Pablo								Verbal instructions affect reactive strength index modified and time-series waveforms in basketball players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	2			211	221		10.1080/14763141.2020.1836252			FEB 1 2024	2024	This study aimed to determine the effects of different verbal instructions, intended to affect the countermovement jump (CMJ) execution time, on the reactive strength index modified (RSIMod) and the time-series waveforms. Thirteen male basketball players performed six CMJs on a force plate with two different verbal instructions: 'jump as high as possible' (CMJhigh) and 'jump as high and as fast as possible' (CMJfast). Force-, power-, velocity-, and displacement-series waveforms, RSIMod and jump height were compared between conditions using statistical parametric mapping procedures. CMJfast showed greater values in RSIMod (p = 0.002) despite no differences in jump height (p = 0.345). Unweighting force (between 18% and 33% of total time) was lower in the CMJfast compared to CMJhigh. Larger force (between 53% and 63% of total time), velocity (between 31% and 48% of total time) and power (between 43% and 56% of total time) were found in the CMJfast compared to CMJhigh. These findings suggest that commanding athletes to jump as high and fast as possible increases rapid force production. Additionally, the results highlight the relevance of the countermovement phase in jumping and show that RSIMod could increase without power output modifications during propulsion, despite previous studies having reported positive associations between RSIMod propulsion power.		[Sanchez-Sixto, Alberto] CEU Cardenal Spinola Univ, Dept Sport, Bormujos, Spain; [Sanchez-Sixto, Alberto; Floria, Pablo] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [McMahon, John J.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Lancs, England; [Sanchez-Sixto, Alberto] CEU Cardenal Spinola Univ, Dept Sport, Bormujos, Spain; [Sanchez-Sixto, Alberto] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain								20							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000605386900001	38	Article; Article		
J	Baker, Hayden P.; Lee, Cody S.; Qin, Charles; Fibranz, Cole; Rizzi, Andrew; Athiviraham, Aravind								Playing Rule Article Eight Decreases the Rate of Sport Related Concussion in NFL Players Over Two Seasons								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	3			342	347		10.1080/00913847.2020.1836945			JUL 3 2021	2021	Objectives The objectives of this study were to determine if rule article 8 significantly reduced (1) the rate of concussions sustained by NFL players during regular season games, (2) the average games missed secondary to concussion injury, and (3) the number of players placed on the injury reserve for sport-related concussions (SRC). Methods This study was a retrospective review of all NFL players who were placed on the publically available injury reports for a concussion from the 2016-2017 to 2019-2020 regular seasons. Player's date of injury was cross-referenced with an absence of statistics from the respective games for which they were ruled out to ensure accuracy. With article 8 taking effect starting with the 2018-2019 season, players were assigned to a pre- or postrule cohort based on date of injury for purposes of injury rate comparison. Injury rates were calculated per 1000 athletic exposures (AE). Relative risk (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) compared injury rates between the two cohorts. Average number of games missed and number of players placed on injury reserve (IR) per year were also calculated. Continuous variables were statistically compared using two-tailed t-test, while categorical variables were compared using Chi-squared test. Statistical significance was set at P <= 0.05. Results There was a 40% decrease in the SRC rate when comparing the post- to the pre-article-8 cohort (3.3 vs 5.5/1000 AEs, respectively; RR 0.60; 95% CI 0.50-0.73). There was no significant difference in average games missed per concussion or percentage of players placed on the IR due to SRC between the two cohorts. Conclusions The rate of SRC over the past two NFL seasons following the enactment of playing rule article 8 has significantly decreased when compared with the two seasons prior. The average games missed per concussion and the number of players placed on the IR due to SRC has not significantly changed under playing rule article 8.		[Baker, Hayden P.; Lee, Cody S.; Qin, Charles; Fibranz, Cole; Rizzi, Andrew; Athiviraham, Aravind] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Baker, Hayden P.] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chicago, IL 60637 USA								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604004300001	15	Article; Article		
J	Lewis, Amy R.; Haydon, David S.; Phillips, Elissa J.; Grimshaw, Paul N.; Pinder, Ross A.; Winter, Joseph; Robertson, William S. P.; Portus, Marc R.								Placement effects of inertial measurement units on contact identification in wheelchair racing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	1			55	70		10.1080/14763141.2018.1522367			JAN 2 2021	2021	Inertial measurement units (IMUs) provide a practical solution for attaining key performance data for wheelchair sports. The effects of IMU placement position on the identification of propulsion characteristics are unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the variability in the reliability of cycle time measurements (time between hand contacts) across IMU locations on the chair frame (axle housings), and wheels (axle, push rim, outer rim), on both the left and right sides (n = 8). Contacts were defined by spikes in the resultant acceleration data, corresponding to impact between the hands and push rim, and verified against motion capture. Five elite wheelchair racing athletes propelled at racing speeds on a treadmill. Excellent inter-rater Intraclass Correlation Coefficient values indicated high reliability and repeatability for both motion capture and IMU signal analysis approaches (R = 0.997, p R = 0.990, p < 0.001, respectively). The best results were (as determined by the best between method agreement) were observed for IMUs located on the frame. Detection reliability was positively associated with signal-to-noise ratio of the acceleration data. The IMU assessment approach facilitates an automated processing capability, which is an improvement to the currently used video analysis.		[Lewis, Amy R.; Haydon, David S.; Grimshaw, Paul N.; Robertson, William S. P.] Univ Adelaide, Fac Engn Comp & Math Sci, Sch Mech Engn, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Lewis, Amy R.; Phillips, Elissa J.; Winter, Joseph; Portus, Marc R.] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Movement Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Pinder, Ross A.] Australian Paralymp Comm, Paralymp Performance, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Lewis, Amy R.] Univ Adelaide, Fac Engn Comp & Math Sci, Sch Mech Engn, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Lewis, Amy R.] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Movement Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000608282500004	41	Article; Article		
J	Gasparutto, Xavier; van der Graaff, Erik; van der Helm, Frans C. T.; Veeger, Dirkjan H. E. J.								Influence of biomechanical models on joint kinematics and kinetics in baseball pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	1			96	108		10.1080/14763141.2018.1523453			JAN 2 2021	2021	In baseball pitching, biomechanical parameters have been linked to ball velocity and potential injury risk. However, although the features of a biomechanical model have a significant influence on the kinematics and kinetics of a motion, this influence have not been assessed for pitching. The aim of this study was to evaluate the choice of the trunk and shoulder features, by comparing two models using the same input. The models differed in thoraco-humeral joint definition (moving or fixed with the thorax), joint centre estimation, values of the inertial parameters and computational framework. One professional pitcher participated in the study. We found that the different features of the biomechanical models have a substantial influence on the kinematics and kinetics of the pitchers. With a fixed thoraco-humeral joint the peak average thorax angular velocity was delayed and underestimated by 17% and the shoulder internal rotation velocity was overestimated by 7%. The use of a thoraco-humeral joint fixed to the thorax will lead to an overestimation of the rotational power at the shoulder and will neglect the power produced by the forward and upward translation of the shoulder girdle. These findings have direct implications for the interpretation of shoulder muscle contributions to the pitch.		[Gasparutto, Xavier; van der Graaff, Erik; van der Helm, Frans C. T.; Veeger, Dirkjan H. E. J.] Delft Univ Technol, Dept BioMech Engn, Delft, Netherlands; [van der Graaff, Erik; Veeger, Dirkjan H. E. J.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Veeger, Dirkjan H. E. J.] Delft Univ Technol, Dept BioMech Engn, Delft, Netherlands; [Veeger, Dirkjan H. E. J.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000608282500007	29	Article; Article		
J	Satkunskiene, Danguole; Kamandulis, Sigitas; Brazaitis, Marius; Snieckus, Audrius; Skurvydas, Albertas								Effect of high volume stretch-shortening cycle exercise on vertical leg stiffness and jump performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	1			38	54		10.1080/14763141.2018.1522366			JAN 2 2021	2021	The study aims were to investigate the effects of muscle damage induced by high-volume stretch-shortening cycle exercise on countermovement jump (CMJ) performance and vertical leg stiffness during squat and landing phases. Changes in the peak torque of knee extensor muscles, soreness, plasma CK activity, vertical leg stiffness, and CMJ characteristics were measured in recreationally active men after 50, 100, 150 and 200 drop jumps (DJs) and again 24 h later. The isometric voluntary peak torque after 50 DJs decreased by 22 +/- 12% (p < 0.01). However, during the squat phase of CMJ eccentric peak power and rate of force development together with the concentric mean force during the push-off phase increased after 50 DJs (all p < 0.05). After 200 DJs, jump height and concentric peak power during push-off were decreased (p < 0.05). At 24 h after exercise, jump height, peak eccentric force, the rate of eccentric force development and the mean concentric force in CMJ and vertical leg stiffness in the squat all remained decreased (p < 0.05), while vertical leg stiffness in the landing phase was increased (p < 0.05). Muscle damaging exercise volume is associated with changes in vertical leg stiffness and CMJ performance.		[Satkunskiene, Danguole; Kamandulis, Sigitas; Brazaitis, Marius; Snieckus, Audrius; Skurvydas, Albertas] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Inst Sport Sci & Innovat, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Snieckus, Audrius] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Inst Sport Sci & Innovat, Kaunas, Lithuania								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000608282500003	52	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Garcia, Dario; Rodriguez-Perea, Angela; Huerta-Ojeda, Alvaro; Jerez-Mayorga, Daniel; Aguilar-Martinez, Daniel; Chirosa-Rios, Ignacio; Ruiz-Fuentes, Pablo; Javier Chirosa-Rios, Luis								Effects of Pre-Activation with Variable Intra-Repetition Resistance on Throwing Velocity in Female Handball Players: A Methodological Proposal								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			235	244		10.2478/hukin-2021-0022			JAN 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to investigate the acute effect of pre-activation with Variable Intra-Repetition Resistance and isometry on the overhead throwing velocity in handball players. Fourteen female handball players took part in the study (age: 21.2 +/- 2.7 years, experience: 10.9 +/- 3.5 years). For Post-Activation Potentiation, two pre-activation methods were used: (I) Variable Intra-Repetition Resistance: 1 x 5 maximum repetitions at an initial velocity of 0.6 m.s(-1) and a final velocity of 0.9 m.s(-1); (II) Isometry: 1 x 5 s of maximum voluntary isometric contraction. Both methods were "standing unilateral bench presses" with the dominant arm, using a functional electromechanical dynamometer. The variable analysed was the mean of the three overhead throws. Ball velocity was measured with a radar (Stalker ATS). The statistical analysis was performed using ANOVA with repeated measures. No significant differences were found for either method (variable resistance intra-repetition: p = 0.194, isometry: p = 0.596). Regarding the individual responses, the analysis showed that 86% of the sample increased throwing velocity with the variable resistance intra-repetition method, while 93% of the sample increased throwing velocity with the isometric method. Both the variable intra-repetition resistance and isometric methods show improvements in ball velocity in female handball players. However, the authors recommend checking individual responses, since the results obtained were influenced by the short rest interval between the pre-activation and the experimental sets.		[Martinez-Garcia, Dario; Rodriguez-Perea, Angela; Aguilar-Martinez, Daniel; Chirosa-Rios, Ignacio; Javier Chirosa-Rios, Luis] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Camino Alfacar 21, Granada, Spain; [Martinez-Garcia, Dario; Rodriguez-Perea, Angela; Ruiz-Fuentes, Pablo] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Huerta-Ojeda, Alvaro] Univ Amer, Fac Educ, Vina Del Mar, Chile; [Jerez-Mayorga, Daniel] Univ Andres Bello, Fac Ciencias Rehabil, Santiago, Chile; [Rodriguez-Perea, Angela] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Camino Alfacar 21, Granada, Spain								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300021	34	Article; Article		
J	Dahl, Kenneth Stakset; van den Tillaar, Roland								The Effect of Eight Weeks of Sling-Based Training with Rotational Core Exercises on Ball Velocity in Female Team Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			261	272		10.2478/hukin-2021-0024			JAN 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to investigate whether sling-based training focused on rotational exercises would improve shooting performance in outfield handball players during the competitive season, and whether changes in performance were related to altered levels of core strength and rotational velocity. Twenty-five female outfield handball players (mean age 19.5 +/- 2.0 years, height 1.72 +/- 0.06 m, body mass 71.5 +/- 8.6 kg, training experience 10.3 +/- 2.4 years), performed 7 m shots, with and without a run-up, and jump shots. Maximal ball velocity, peak rotational velocity of the trunk with different loads and 1RM in a core strength test were measured before and after an 8-week training intervention. Players were divided into a sling-based and a plyometric/sprint training (control) group that trained three times per week for 8 weeks. The main findings were that sling-based training increased ball velocity by on average 3.2% across three techniques tested, while shooting performance decreased by 3% in the control group. However, both training groups demonstrated increased peak rotational velocity with different loads, but not the calculated 1RM core strength after the training period. It was concluded that sling-based training with rotational core exercises could improve maximal ball velocity in female handball players during a competitive season by around 3%. However, this increased ball velocity may have been caused by increased angular velocity in the core, rather than absolute maximal core strength. It is suggested that sling-based training has impacted timing variables of the different involved segments, or possibly power transfer between segments, which may explain the enhancement in ball velocity.		[Dahl, Kenneth Stakset; van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Odins Veg 23, N-7603 Levanger, Norway; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Odins Veg 23, N-7603 Levanger, Norway								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300023	25	Article; Article		
J	Zinner, Christoph; Matzka, Manuel; Krumscheid, Sebastian; Holmberg, Hans-Christer; Sperlich, Billy								Cardiorespiratory, Metabolic and Perceived Responses to Electrical Stimulation of Upper-Body Muscles While Performing Arm Cycling								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			117	123		10.2478/hukin-2021-0016			JAN 2021	2021	This study was designed to assess systemic cardio-respiratory, metabolic and perceived responses to incremental arm cycling with concurrent electrical myostimulation (EMS). Eleven participants (24 +/- 3 yrs; 182 +/- 10 cm; 86 +/- 16.8 kg) performed two incremental tests involving arm cycling until volitional exhaustion was reached with and without EMS of upper-body muscles. The peak power output was 10.1% lower during arm cycling with (128 +/- 30 W) than without EMS (141 +/- 25 W, p = 0.01; d = 0.47). In addition, the heart rate (2-9%), oxygen uptake (7-15%), blood lactate concentration (8-46%) and ratings of perceived exertion (4-14%) while performing submaximal arm cycling with EMS were all higher with than without EMS (all p < 0.05). Upon exhaustion, the heart rate, oxygen uptake, lactate concentration, and ratings of perceived exertion did not differ between the two conditions (all p > 0.05). In conclusion, arm cycling with EMS induced more pronounced cardio-respiratory, metabolic and perceived responses, especially during submaximal arm cycling. This form of exercise with stimulation might be beneficial for a variety of athletes competing in sports involving considerable generation of work by the upper body (e.g., kayaking, cross-country skiing, swimming, rowing and various parasports).		[Zinner, Christoph] Univ Appl Sci Police & Adm Hesse, Dept Sport, Schonbergstr 100, D-65199 Wiesbaden, Germany; [Matzka, Manuel; Sperlich, Billy] Univ Wurzburg, Integrat & Expt Exercise Sci & Training, Wurzburg, Germany; [Krumscheid, Sebastian] Rhein Westfal TH Aachen, Dept Math, Aachen, Germany; [Holmberg, Hans-Christer] Mid Sweden Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Ostersund, Sweden; [Zinner, Christoph] Univ Appl Sci Police & Adm Hesse, Dept Sport, Schonbergstr 100, D-65199 Wiesbaden, Germany								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300011	29	Article; Article		
J	Beato, Marco; Young, Damien; Stiff, Adam; Coratella, Giuseppe								Lower-Limb Muscle Strength, Anterior-Posterior and Inter-Limb Asymmetry in Professional, Elite Academy and Amateur Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			135	146		10.2478/hukin-2020-0058			JAN 2021	2021	Given the importance of the lower-limb strength and strength balance in soccer players and its relationship with injury prevention and performance, the present study compared quadriceps and hamstrings strength, the conventional (H-conc:Q(conc)), functional (H-ece:Q(conc)) hamstrings-to-quadriceps ratio and inter-limb strength asymmetry in professional, elite academy and amateur male soccer players. In this cross-sectional study, two hundred-six soccer players (professional = 75, elite academy = 68, amateurs = 63) volunteered to participate. Quadriceps and hamstrings isokinetic peak torque was investigated at 60 degrees.s(-1) in both the concentric and eccentric modality and at 300 degrees.s(-1) in the concentric modality. The conventional H-conc:Q(conc), functional H-ecc:Q(conc) ratio and quadriceps and hamstrings inter-limb strength asymmetry were then calculated. Professional players presented greater quadriceps and hamstrings strength than elite academy (effect size from small to moderate) and amateur players (moderate to very large). Both the conventional H-conc:Q(conc) and functional H-ecc:Q(conc) ratio were greater in professional than elite academy and amateur players (small to moderate). Overall, quadriceps and hamstrings inter-limb strength asymmetry was greater in amateurs than professional (small to very large) and elite academy (trivial to large) players. The present findings provide coaches and medical staffs with normative lower-limb muscle strength data on professional, academy and amateur soccer players. Overall lower-limb muscle strength and inter-limb strength asymmetry could be used to evaluate possible inference on injury prevention and performance. The hamstrings-to-quadriceps ratio poorly differentiates between the soccer players background and offers limited prediction for injury prevention and performance.		[Beato, Marco; Stiff, Adam] Univ Suffolk, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Ipswich, Suffolk, England; [Young, Damien] Univ Bourgogne Franche Comte, Res Unit EA3920 Prognost Markers & Regulatory Fac, Besancon, France; [Coratella, Giuseppe] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, Ipswich, Suffolk, England								34							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300013	39	Article; Article		
J	Waldron, Mark; Harding, Jamie; Barrett, Steve; Gray, Adrian								A New Foot-Mounted Inertial Measurement System in Soccer: Reliability and Comparison to Global Positioning Systems for Velocity Measurements During Team Sport Actions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			37	50		10.2478/hukin-2021-0010			JAN 2021	2021	The aims of this study were to i) compare a foot-mounted inertial system (PlayerMaker (TM)) to three commercially available Global Positioning Systems (GPS) for measurement of velocity-based metrics during team sport movements and ii) evaluate the inter-unit reliability of the PlayerMaker (TM). Twelve soccer players completed a soccer simulation, whilst wearing a PlayerMaker (TM) and three GPS (GPS#1, #2 and #3). A sub-sample (n = 7) also wore two PlayerMaker (TM) systems concurrently. The PlayerMakerTm measured higher (p < 0.05) total distance (518 +/- 15 m) compared to GPS#1 (488 +/- 15 m), GPS#2 (486 +/- 15 m), and GPS#3 (501 +/- 14 m). This was explained by greater (p < 0.05) distances in the 1.5-3.5 m/s zone (356 +/- 24 m vs. 326 +/- 26 m vs. 324 +/- 18 m vs. 335 +/- 24 m) and the 3.51-5.5 m/s zone (64 +/- 18 m vs. 35 +/- 5 vs. 43 +/- 8 m vs. 41 +/- 8 m) between the PlayerMaker (TM), GPS#1, GPS#2 and GPS#3, respectively. The PlayerMaker (TM) recorded higher (p < 0.05) distances while changing speed. There were no systematic differences (p > 0.05) between the two PlayerMaker (TM) systems. The PlayerMaker (TM) is reliable and records higher velocity and distances compared to GPS.		[Waldron, Mark] Swansea Univ, Coll Engn, A STEM, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Waldron, Mark; Gray, Adrian] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Harding, Jamie] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, London, England; [Barrett, Steve] Hull City Tigers FC, East Riding, Yorks, England; [Waldron, Mark] Swansea Univ, Coll Engn, Engn East A120, Swansea, W Glam, Wales								27							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300004	31	Article; Article		
J	McLean, Scott; Salmon, Paul M.; Gorman, Adam D.; Dodd, Karl; Solomon, Colin								The Communication and Passing Contributions of Playing Positions in a Professional Soccer Team								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			223	234		10.2478/hukin-2020-0052			JAN 2021	2021	Determining the connectivity of team members in sport provides important information on team functioning. In soccer, teams that are highly connected via passing have been shown to be more successful compared to teams less connected via passing. In addition to passing connectivity, players are connected with each other via intra-team communication (ITC) through verbal instruction, and nonverbal cues. Despite ITC being a known component of effective teamwork to enhance strategy, efficiency, motivation and concentration, ITC of individual playing positions has not previously been measured during soccer games, nor has it been associated with passing connections in a performance context. In this study, the received ITC that was perceived to be beneficial to performance during 22 competitive professional soccer matches was measured, in conjunction with the passing connections between team members. In total, 526 ITC ratings were collected and analysed, and a total of 7,693 passes were analysed. From the ITC and passing measures, a player connectivity index (PCI) representing the coupling of ITC and passing, was developed to determine the overall connectivity of the individual playing positions. Social network analysis (SNA) centrality metrics were used to determine the connectivity of the playing positions. There were significant (p < .05) main effects between playing positions for beneficial ITC, passing, and the PCI for centrality metrics, indicating that different playing positions interact with other team members differently. Pairwise comparisons indicated significant differences between individual playing positions for ITC, passing and the PCI. The two central defenders and the two central defensive midfielders had the highest mean values for ITC, passing, and the PCI compared to the other playing positions. The current findings suggest that central defenders and central defensive midfielders are positioned tactically to be highly involved in the build-up of passing moves, and to deliver beneficial task related information to team members. These findings have implications for performance analysis, coaches, and for talent identification.		[McLean, Scott; Salmon, Paul M.; Dodd, Karl; Solomon, Colin] Univ Sunshine Coast, Ctr Human Factors & Sociotech Syst, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Gorman, Adam D.] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [McLean, Scott] Univ Sunshine Coast, Ctr Human Factors & Sociotech Syst, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300020	31	Article; Article		
J	Opala-Berdzik, Agnieszka; Glowacka, Magdalena; Slomka, Kajetan J.								Characteristics of Functional Stability in Young Adolescent Female Artistic Gymnasts								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			51	59		10.2478/hukin-2021-0051			JAN 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to determine whether young adolescent female artistic gymnasts demonstrate better functional stability than age- and sex-matched non-athletes. Different characteristics of the gymnasts' postural control were expected to be observed. Twenty-two 10- to 13-year-old healthy females (ten national-level artistic gymnasts and twelve non-athletes) participated in the study. To assess their forward functional stability, the 30-s limit of stability test was performed on a force plate. The test consisted of three phases: quiet standing, transition to maximal forward leaning, and standing in the maximal forward leaning position. Between-group comparisons of the directional subcomponents of the root mean squares and mean velocities of the center of pressure and rambling-trembling displacements in two phases (quiet standing and standing in maximal leaning) were conducted. Moreover, anterior stability limits were compared. During standing in maximal forward leaning, there were no differences in the center of pressure and rambling measures between gymnasts and non-athletes (p > 0.05). The values of trembling measures in both anterior-posterior and medial-lateral directions were significantly lower in gymnasts (p < 0.05). Both groups presented similar values for anterior stability limits (p > 0.05). The comparisons of rambling components may suggest a similar supraspinal control of standing in the maximal leaning position between gymnasts and healthy non-athletes. However, decreased trembling in gymnasts may indicate reduced noise in their postural control system possibly due to superior control processes at the spinal level. The anterior stability limit was not influenced by gymnastics training in female adolescents.		[Opala-Berdzik, Agnieszka] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy Internal Dis, Katowice, Poland; [Glowacka, Magdalena] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Individual Sports, Katowice, Poland; [Slomka, Kajetan J.] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland; [Opala-Berdzik, Agnieszka] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Physiotherapy Internal Dis, Inst Physiotherapy & Hlth Sci, Ul Mikolowska 72, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300005	26	Article; Article		
J	Michalowska-Sawczyn, Monika; Grzywacz, Anna; Masiak, Jolanta; Chmielowiec, Krzysztof; Chmielowiec, Jolanta; Chycki, Jakub; Maculewicz, Ewelina; Cieszczyk, Pawel								Associations Between Physical Effort and DNA Methylation in the Promotor Region of the Dopamine Transporter Gene (DAT1)								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			125	133		10.2478/hukin-2021-0041			JAN 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between physical effort and DNA methylation in the promoter region of the dopamine transporter gene (DAT1). The research group included 100 athletes (mean age = 22.88, SD = 6.35), whereas the control group were 239 healthy male volunteers matched for age (mean age = 21.69, SD = 3.39). Both, the control and the research group, included individuals with Caucasian origin from the same region of Poland. DNA was extracted from peripheral blood leukocytes using a DNA isolation kit (A&A Biotechnology, Gdynia, Poland). Bisulfite modification of 250 ng DNA was performed using the EZ DNA Methylation Kit (Zymo Research, Orange, CA, USA), according to manufacturer's instructions. The methylation-specific PCR assay was carried out in a Mastercycler epgradient S (Eppendorf, Germany). We observed that the level of general methylation of the CpG island was similar for both groups. Further exploration of individual CpG sites allowed to notice that there were significant differences in methylation status in specific positions. Nonetheless, there was no rule that would indicate either higher or lower methylation of individual sites, four of them were methylated at a higher level (positions 1, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 18, 23, 25, 26, 27, 29 and 30), while one showed an inverse trend (position 3). More precise analysis with the usage of Bonferroni correction for multiple tests indicated that differences in CpG site methylation were mainly increased in several positions and decreased in position 3.		[Michalowska-Sawczyn, Monika; Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Grzywacz, Anna] Univ Rzeszow, Fac Phys Educ, Rzeszow, Poland; [Chmielowiec, Krzysztof; Chmielowiec, Jolanta] Univ Zielona Gora, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Zielona Gora, Poland; [Masiak, Jolanta] Med Univ Lublin, Dept Psychiat, Neurophysiol Independent Unit, Lublin, Poland; [Chycki, Jakub] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Maculewicz, Ewelina] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Biomed Sci, Warsaw, Poland; [Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Ul Kazimierza Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300012	45	Article; Article		
J	Mikolajec, Kazimierz; Banys, Damian; Zurowska-Cegielska, Justyna; Zawartka, Marek; Gryko, Karol								How to Win the Basketball Euroleague? Game Performance Determining Sports Results During 2003-2016 Matches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			287	296		10.2478/hukin-2021-0050			JAN 2021	2021	The main aim of this study was to establish game-related statistics that determined sport results in the Basketball EuroLeague between 2003 and 2016. The study encompasses matches played by 10 teams during 13 consecutive seasons of the EuroLeague. Twenty-two offensive and defensive game related variables were registered. Calculations were performed to establish which of the variables determined performance in the Basketball EuroLeague matches within the analysed period. Based on a number of mathematical and statistical analyses, the elements of play that had the highest effect on sports success were selected. The following determinants displayed the most significant correlations with sport results in the EuroLeague within the analysed period: two-point shots made (2PT-made), two-point shot attempts (2PT-attempts), three-point shots made (3PT-made), one-point shots made (1PT-made), one-point shot attempts (1PT-attempts), assists, fouls and field goals made. The game outcome in basketball is influenced by many variables which may not always be significant in a given match. However, the continuous effort to maintain these variables at the highest possible level is advantageous over less-organised teams.		[Mikolajec, Kazimierz; Banys, Damian; Zurowska-Cegielska, Justyna] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Team Sport Games, Katowice, Poland; [Gryko, Karol] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ, Dept Sport Games, Warsaw, Poland; [Zawartka, Marek] Jagiellonian Univ, Inst Enterpreneurship, Krakow, Poland; [Gryko, Karol] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Sport Games, Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300025	37	Article; Article		
J	Mack, Melanie; Schmidt, Marcel; Heinen, Thomas								The Relationship Between the Perceived Movement Quality and the Kinematic Pattern of Complex Skills in Gymnastics								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			5	13		10.2478/hukin-2021-0007			JAN 2021	2021	The study aimed to investigate the relationship between the perceived movement quality of a gymnastics skill and its kinematic pattern, as well as the influence of expertise. Thirty participants with different levels of gymnastics expertise (n = 10 visual experts, n = 10 motor experts and n = 10 novices) were recruited for the study. They were instructed to compare the movement quality of eleven video sequences, showing different handstand - back handspring performances. To extract the kinematics, the performances were digitized. By means of an ongoing cluster analysis, the kinematic pattern as well as the pattern of the perceived movement quality of the skills were determined for each experimental group. The results of the cluster analysis of the different experimental groups were analyzed and compared. Expertise differences were found regarding the pattern of the perceived movement quality. There was a significant correlation between the dendrograms of the visual experts and the motor experts (p = .021), as well as between the dendrograms of the visual experts and the novices (p = .011). There was no significant correlation between the dendrograms of the motor experts and the novices (p = .173). The pattern of the perceived movement quality was not correlated with the holistic kinematic pattern of judged skills (p > .143). These results suggest perceptual and cognitive differences of the participants due to their different previous visual and motor experience.		[Mack, Melanie; Schmidt, Marcel; Heinen, Thomas] Univ Leipzig, Fac Sport Sci, Leipzig, Germany; [Mack, Melanie] Univ Munster, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Horstmarer Landweg 62 B, D-48149 Munster, Germany; [Mack, Melanie] Univ Munster, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Horstmarer Landweg 62 B, D-48149 Munster, Germany								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300001	35	Article; Article		
J	Becker, Stephan; Berger, Joshua; Ludwig, Oliver; Gunther, Daniel; Kelm, Jens; Frohlich, Michael								Heading in Soccer: Does Kinematics of the Head-Neck-Torso Alignment Influence Head Acceleration?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			71	80		10.2478/hukin-2021-0012			JAN 2021	2021	There is little scientific evidence regarding the cumulative effect of purposeful heading. The head-neck-torso alignment is considered to be of great importance when it comes to minimizing potential risks when heading. Therefore, this study determined the relationship between head-neck-torso alignment (cervical spine, head, thoracic spine) and the acceleration of the head, the relationship between head acceleration and maximum ball speed after head impact and differences between head accelerations throughout different heading approaches (standing, jumping, running). A total of 60 male soccer players (18.9 +/- 4.0 years, 177.6 +/- 14.9 cm, 73.1 +/- 8.6 kg) participated in the study. Head accelerations were measured by a telemetric Noraxon DTS 3D Sensor, whereas angles for the head-neck-torso alignment and ball speed were analyzed with a Qualisys Track Manager program. No relationship at all was found for the standing, jumping and running approaches. Concerning the relationship between head acceleration and maximum ball speed after head impact only for the standing header a significant result was calculated (p = 0.024, R-2 = .085). A significant difference in head acceleration (p < .001) was identified between standing, jumping and running headers. To sum up, the relationship between head acceleration and head-neck-torso alignment is more complex than initially assumed and could not be proven in this study. Furthermore first data were generated to check whether the acceleration of the head is a predictor for the resulting maximum ball speed after head impact, but further investigations have to follow. Lastly, we confirmed the results that the head acceleration differs with the approach.		[Becker, Stephan; Berger, Joshua; Ludwig, Oliver; Gunther, Daniel; Frohlich, Michael] Tech Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sport Sci, Erwin Schrodinger Str 57-532, D-67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany; [Kelm, Jens] Chirurg Orthopad Zentrum, Illingen, Germany; [Becker, Stephan] Tech Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sport Sci, Erwin Schrodinger Str 57-532, D-67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300007	30	Article; Article		
J	Brini, Seifeddine; Delextrat, Anne; Bouassida, Anissa								Variation in Lower Limb Power and Three Point Shot Performance Following Repeated Sprints: One vs. Five Changes of Direction in Male Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				77	1			169	179		10.2478/hukin-2021-0019			JAN 2021	2021	Repeated sprint ability (RSA) with five changes of direction was well admitted to replicate real basketball game situations, but the additional changes of direction may affect some fundamental skills and performances in basketball. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of RSA with one vs. five changes of direction (IRSA5coD) on squat jump (SJ), five jump test (FJT) and three point shot (3PS) performances in male basketball players. Sixteen participants (23.4 +/- 2.3 years; 1.86 +/- 0.10 m; 77.8 +/- 7.7 kg) randomly performed eight testing sessions consisting of either RSA (10 repetitions of (15 m + 15 m)) or IRSA5coD (10 repetitions of (5 m + 5 m + 5 m + 5 m + 5 m + 5 m)) performed alone or immediately followed by the SJ, FJT or 3PS. The heart rate (HR) and ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) were continuously recorded, while blood lactate concentration was measured post-tests. Differences between RSA and IRSA5cov were evaluated by a Student t-test for paired samples, while analyses of variance (ANOVAs) with repeated measures assessed differences in SJ, FJT and 3PS performance between baseline, post-RSA and post-IRSA5coD. A significantly poorer FIT performance post-RSA was shown compared to baseline (7.47 +/- 0.47 vs.7.54 +/- 0.47 m, p = 0.01) and post-IRSA5coD (7.47 +/- 0.47 vs. 7.56 +/- 0.49%, p = 0.048). Significantly lower 3PS accuracy was also observed post-IRSA5coD compared to baseline (41.3 +/- 3.1 vs.53.1 +/- 2.8%, p = 0.003) and post-RSA (41.3 +/- 3.1 vs. 48.1 +/- 3.7%, p = 0.033). These results suggest that jump performance required for crucial actions such as lay-ups is negatively affected by longer sprints (15-m) with few changes of direction, while 3PS accuracy is impaired by shorter sprints with many changes of direction. These situations should be replicated when training these particular abilities to optimize training adaptations.		[Brini, Seifeddine; Bouassida, Anissa] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sports & Phys Educ Kef, Res Unit, Sport Performance & Phys Rehabil, Kef, Tunisia; [Brini, Seifeddine] Univ Carthage, Fac Sci Bizerte, Zarzouna 7021, Bizerte, Tunisia; [Delextrat, Anne] Oxford Brookes Univ, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci & Social Work, Gipsy Lane, Oxford OX3 0BP, England; [Delextrat, Anne] Oxford Brookes Univ, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci & Social Work, Gipsy Lane, Oxford OX3 0BP, England								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625103300016	32	Article; Article		
J	Jurkojc, Jacek; Wodarski, Piotr; Michnik, Robert; Marszalek, Wojciech; Slomka, Kajetan J.; Gzik, Marek								The Use of Frequency Analysis as a Complementary and Explanatory Element for Time Domain Analysis in Measurements of the Ability to Maintain Balance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				76	1			117	129		10.2478/hukin-2021-0004			JAN 2021	2021	Assessment of human balance is one of the most common diagnostic tests, both in medical applications and during sports training. Many new methods of measuring are introduced in these studies; however, the analysis of results is still carried out mainly based on the values determined in the time domain - the average COP speed or the ellipse field of the prediction. The aim of the current work is to present the possibilities for the practical application of frequency analyses in assessment of the ability to maintain body balance as a method supplementing standard analyses. As part of the study, measurements of the ability to maintain balance in sensory conflict conditions introduced in the form of an oscillating, three-dimensional, virtual scenery were carried out. 27 healthy volunteers (13 women and 14 men) took part in the study. The three-dimensional scenery, presented by means of the Oculus system, oscillated in the sagittal plane with frequencies equal to 0.7 Hz and 1.4 Hz. The frequency value during the measurement was constant or changed in the middle of the test. Measurements were conducted on the FDM Zebris platform. The results were analyzed using developed coefficients determined on the basis of the Short-time Fourier transform (STFT). The use of frequency-domain analyses confirmed that in the COP movement, one can observe a cyclical component corresponding to following the scenery, as well as the appearance of other cyclical components whose observation is important in terms of assessing the ability to maintain balance. It has been shown that the changes in the average COP speed that occur during the measurement can result from changes related to the movement of following the scenery as well as additional body movements indicating a greater or lesser loss of balance. It has been shown that there are differences in the COP movement provoked by the movement of the surrounding scenery, which depend on the parameters of the introduced disturbances - something that can only be observed in results obtained in the frequency domain. The conducted research shows that in measurements involving the ability to maintain one's balance conducted in sensory conflict conditions, standard time-domain analyses should be supplemented with other types of data analysis, e.g. frequency domain analyses.		[Jurkojc, Jacek; Wodarski, Piotr; Michnik, Robert; Gzik, Marek] Silesian Tech Univ, Fac Biomed Engn, Dept Biomechatron, Gliwice, Poland; [Marszalek, Wojciech; Slomka, Kajetan J.] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Jurkojc, Jacek] Silesian Tech Univ, Fac Biomed Engn, Dept Biomechatron, Gliwice, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625098000009	25	Article; Article		
J	Pagaduan, Jeffrey Cayaban; Wu, Sam Shi Xuan; Fell, James William; Chen, Yung-Sheng								Effect of Acute Heart Rate Variability Biofeedback on H-reflex Modulation: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				76	1			83	88		10.2478/hukin-2021-0001			JAN 2021	2021	Heart rate variability biofeedback (HRV BFB) is paced breathing scheme that stimulates resonance in the cardiovascular system. This study aimed to investigate the effect of a single-session HRV BFB on Hoffman reflex (H-reflex) of the soleus muscle. Twelve healthy males (height: 173.7 +/- 7.18 cm; weight: 72.7 +/- 17.7 kg; age: 24.0 +/- 5.02 yrs) completed a randomized-crossover intervention involving a 10-minute HRV BFB and normal breathing (CON) separated by 48 hours. Results revealed significantly lower 1a afferent activation after HRV BFB. Similarly, the HRV BFB also demonstrated lower proportion of activated motor neurons from 1a afferents. In conclusion, an acute HRV BFB influenced the reduction in motoneuron excitability at resting condition.		[Pagaduan, Jeffrey Cayaban; Fell, James William] Univ Tasmania, Coll Hlth & Med, Sch Hlth Sci, Newnham Dr, Newnham, Tas 7248, Australia; [Wu, Sam Shi Xuan] Swinburne Univ, Fac Hlth Arts & Design, Sch Hlth Sci, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Chen, Yung-Sheng] Univ Taipei, Dept Exercise & Hlth Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Pagaduan, Jeffrey Cayaban] Univ Tasmania, Coll Hlth & Med, Sch Hlth Sci, Newnham Dr, Newnham, Tas 7248, Australia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625098000006	29	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Qiang; Ruan, Mianfang; Singh, Navrag B.; Huang, Lingyan; Zhang, Xin; Wu, Xie								Progression of Fatigue Modifies Primary Contributors to Ground Reaction Forces During Drop Landing								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				76	1			161	173		10.2478/hukin-2021-0052			JAN 2021	2021	Few studies have focused on the effect of fatigue severity on landing strategy. This study aimed to investigate the effect of fatigue progression on ground reaction force during landing. Eighteen participants performed a fatigue exercise protocol. Then participants performed drop landings at three levels of fatigue: no fatigue, medium fatigue, and severe fatigue. Multiple linear regression was conducted to identify the predictors of the peak vertical ground reaction force at each level of fatigue. Two-way ANOVAs were conducted to test the effect of fatigue on the vertical ground reaction force and the predictors. For the vertical ground reaction force, the knee joint stiffness and the knee angle at initial contact were the main predictors at no fatigue. The peak knee flexion angle and knee power were the main predictors at medium fatigue. However, the peak ankle plantarflexion moments became the main predictor at severe fatigue. The vertical ground reaction force decreased from no to medium fatigue (p = 0.001), and then increased from medium to severe fatigue (p = 0.034). The knee joint stiffness decreased from no to medium fatigue (p = 0.049), and then remained unchanged from medium to severe fatigue. The peak knee flexion angle increased from no to medium fatigue (p = 0.001), and then slightly decreased from medium to severe fatigue (p = 0.051). The results indicate that fatigue progression causes a transition from stiff to soft landing, and then to stiff landing. Participants used ankle joints more to control the landing intensity at severe fatigue.		[Zhang, Qiang; Singh, Navrag B.] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Inst Biomech, Zurich, Switzerland; [Ruan, Mianfang] Wenzhou Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Wenzhou, Peoples R China; [Huang, Lingyan; Zhang, Xin; Wu, Xie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Wu, Xie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625098000012	46	Article; Article		
J	Loeb, Gerald E.								Learning to Use Muscles								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				76	1			9	33		10.2478/hukin-2020-0084			JAN 2021	2021	The human musculoskeletal system is highly complex mechanically. Its neural control must deal successfully with this complexity to perform the diverse, efficient, robust and usually graceful behaviors of which humans are capable. Most of those behaviors might be performed by many different subsets of its myriad possible states, so how does the nervous system decide which subset to use? One solution that has received much attention over the past 50 years would be for the nervous system to be fundamentally limited in the patterns of muscle activation that it can access, a concept known as muscle synergies or movement primitives. Another solution, based on engineering control methodology, is for the nervous system to compute the single optimal pattern of muscle activation for each task according to a cost function. This review points out why neither appears to be the solution used by humans. There is a third solution that is based on trial-and-error learning, recall and interpolation of sensorimotor programs that are good-enough rather than limited or optimal. The solution set acquired by an individual during the protracted development of motor skills starting in infancy forms the basis of motor habits, which are inherently low-dimensional. Such habits give rise to muscle usage patterns that are consistent with synergies but do not reflect fundamental limitations of the nervous system and can be shaped by training or disability. This habit-based strategy provides a robust substrate for the control of new musculoskeletal structures during evolution as well as for efficient learning, athletic training and rehabilitation therapy.		[Loeb, Gerald E.] Univ Southern Calif, Viterbi Sch Engn, Dept Biomed Engn, Los Angeles, CA 90089 USA; [Loeb, Gerald E.] Univ Southern Calif, Viterbi Sch Engn, MC 1111,1042 Downey Way, Los Angeles, CA 90089 USA								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625098000002	111	Article; Article		
J	Liang, Don; Yarossi, Mathew; Jacobs-Skolik, Spencer Lake; Furmanek, Mariusz P.; Brooks, Dana; Erdogmus, Deniz; Tunik, Eugene								Synergistic Activation Patterns of Hand Muscles in Left-and Right-Hand Dominant Individuals								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				76	1			89	100		10.2478/hukin-2021-0002			JAN 2021	2021	Handedness has been associated with behavioral asymmetries between limbs that suggest specialized function of dominant and non-dominant hand. Whether patterns of muscle co-activation, representing muscle synergies, also differ between the limbs remains an open question. Previous investigations of proximal upper limb muscle synergies have reported little evidence of limb asymmetry; however, whether the same is true of the distal upper limb and hand remains unknown. This study compared forearm and hand muscle synergies between the dominant and non-dominant limb of left-handed and right-handed participants. Participants formed their hands into the postures of the American Sign Language (ASL) alphabet, while EMG was recorded from hand and forearm muscles. Muscle synergies were extracted for each limb individually by applying non-negative-matrix-factorization (NMF). Extracted synergies were compared between limbs for each individual, and between individuals to assess within and across participant differences. Results indicate no difference between the limbs for individuals, but differences in limb synergies at the population level. Left limb synergies were found to be more similar than right limb synergies across left- and right-handed individuals. Synergies of the left hand of left dominant individuals were found to have greater population level similarity than the other limbs tested. Results are interpreted with respect to known differences in the neuroanatomy and neurophysiology of proximal and distal upper limb motor control. Implications for skill training in sports requiring dexterous control of the hand are discussed.		[Liang, Don; Yarossi, Mathew; Jacobs-Skolik, Spencer Lake; Furmanek, Mariusz P.; Tunik, Eugene] Northeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy Movement & Rehabil Sci, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Liang, Don] Northeastern Univ, Dept Bioengn, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Yarossi, Mathew; Jacobs-Skolik, Spencer Lake; Brooks, Dana; Erdogmus, Deniz; Tunik, Eugene] Northeastern Univ, Dept Elect & Comp Engn, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Furmanek, Mariusz P.] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Yarossi, Mathew] Bouve Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy Movement & Rehabil Sci, 336 Huntington Ave,404 Robinson Hall, Boston, MA 02115 USA								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625098000007	52	Article; Article		
J	Knihs, Debora Aparecida; Zimmermann, Haiko Bruno; Dal Pupo, Juliano								Acute and Delayed Effects of Fatigue on Ground Reaction Force, Lower Limb Stiffness and Coordination Asymmetries During a Landing Task								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				76	1			191	199		10.2478/hukin-2021-0054			JAN 2021	2021	Landing is a critical phase of movement for injury occurrence, in which lower limbs should be used equally to better absorb the shock. However, it has been suggested that fatigue can lead to the appearance of asymmetries. The aim of this study was to verify the acute and delayed effects of fatigue on the lower limb asymmetry indexes of peak ground reaction force, leg stiffness and intra-limb coordination during a landing task. Fifteen physically active men performed a fatigue protocol composed of 14 sets of 10 continuous vertical jumps, with a one-minute rest interval between the sets. A step-off landing task was performed before, immediately after, 24 h and 48 h after the fatigue protocol. Two force plates and a video analysis system were used. The symmetry index equation provided the asymmetry indexes. For statistical analysis, ANOVA and effect size analysis were utilized. Inferential statistics did not show the effect of fatigue in the asymmetry indexes for any variable or condition (p > .05). Moderate effect sizes were observed for peak ground reaction force (0.61) and leg stiffness (0.61) immediately after the application of the protocol. In conclusion, fatigue does not seem to significantly change the asymmetries of lower limbs, especially regarding intra-limb coordination. The moderate effects observed for peak ground reaction force and leg stiffness asymmetries suggest that these variables may be acutely affected by fatigue.		[Knihs, Debora Aparecida; Dal Pupo, Juliano] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Zimmermann, Haiko Bruno] Univ Reg Blumenau, Phys Educ Dept, Blumenau, Brazil; [Knihs, Debora Aparecida] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Biomech Lab, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625098000014	37	Article; Article		
J	Ricotta, Joseph; Latash, Mark L.								Stability of Action and Kinesthetic Perception in Parkinson's Disease								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				76	1			145	159		10.2478/hukin-2021-0006			JAN 2021	2021	We present a review of action and perception stability within the theoretical framework based on the idea of control with spatial referent coordinates for the effectors at a number of hierarchical levels. Stability of salient variables is ensured by synergies, neurophysiological structures that act in multi-dimensional spaces of elemental variables and limit variance to the uncontrolled manifold during action and iso-perceptual manifold during perception. Patients with Parkinson's disease show impaired synergic control reflected in poor stability (low synergy indices) and poor agility (low indices of anticipatory synergy adjustments prior to planned quick actions). They also show impaired perception across modalities, including kinesthetic perception. We suggest that poor stability at the level of referent coordinates can be the dominant factor leading to poor stability of percepts.		[Ricotta, Joseph; Latash, Mark L.] Penn State Univ, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [Ricotta, Joseph] Penn State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Rec Hall 20, University Pk, PA 16802 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625098000011	74	Article; Article		
J	Pawlowski, Michal; Furmanek, Mariusz P.; Sobota, Grzegorz; Marszalek, Wojciech; Slomka, Kajetan J.; Bacik, Bogdan; Juras, Grzegorz								Number of Trials Necessary to Apply Analysis within the Framework of the Uncontrolled Manifold Hypothesis at Different Levels of Hierarchical Synergy Control								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				76	1			131	143		10.2478/hukin-2021-0005			JAN 2021	2021	The uncontrolled manifold hypothesis is a method used to quantify motor synergies, defined as a specific central nervous system organization that maintains the task-specific stability of motor actions. The UCM allows for inter-trial variance analysis between consecutive trials. However, despite the large body of literature within this framework, there is no report on the number of movement repetitions required for reliable results. Based on the hypothetical hierarchical control of motor synergies, this study aims to determine the minimum number of trials necessary to achieve a good to excellent level of reliability. Thirteen young, healthy participants performed fifteen bilateral isometric contractions of elbow flexion when visual feedback was provided. The force and electromyography data were recorded to investigate synergies at different levels of hierarchical control. The intraclass correlation coefficient was used to determine the reliability of the variance indices. Based on the obtained results, at least twelve trials are required to analyze the intertrial variance in both force and muscle synergies within the UCM framework.		[Pawlowski, Michal; Furmanek, Mariusz P.; Sobota, Grzegorz; Marszalek, Wojciech; Slomka, Kajetan J.; Bacik, Bogdan; Juras, Grzegorz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Furmanek, Mariusz P.] Northeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy Movement & Rehabil Sci, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Pawlowski, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Human Motor Behav, 72A Mikolowska St, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000625098000010	69	Article; Article		
J	Icekson, Tamar; Alon, Anat Toder; Shuv-Ami, Avichai; Sela, Yaron								The impact of ageing on aggression among sport fans: the mediating role of fan hatred								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	4			780	797		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2020-0164			OCT 12 2021	2021	Purpose The growing proportion of older fans and their potential economic value have increased the need for an improved understanding of age differences in fan behaviour. Building on socioemotional selectivity theory, the current study examines the impact of age differences on fan hatred as well as on the extent to which fans actually engage in aggressive activities and fans' perceptions of the levels of appropriateness of certain physical and verbal acts of aggression. Design/methodology/approach The study used an online panel-based survey that offered access to a real-world population of sport fans. The participants were 742 fans of professional football (soccer). Findings Results from structural equation modelling indicated that older fans reported lower levels of fan hatred, lower self-reported aggression and lower acceptance of physical and verbal aggression. Moreover, fan hatred partially mediated the relationship between age and levels of aggression and between age and acceptance of verbal aggression. In addition, fan hatred fully mediated the relationship between age and acceptance of physical aggression. Originality/value The current study makes two important contributions. First, it demonstrates that sport clubs may particularly benefit from understanding the potential but often neglected importance of older sport fans in relation to the problematic phenomenon of fan aggression. Second, it offers a thorough theoretical account of the manner in which fan hatred plays a significant role in the relationships between age and fan aggressiveness.		[Icekson, Tamar] Peres Acad Ctr, Sch Behav Sci, Rehovot, Israel; [Icekson, Tamar] Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Dept Management, Beer Sheva, Israel; [Icekson, Tamar] Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Dept Educ, Beer Sheva, Israel; [Alon, Anat Toder] Peres Acad Ctr, Sch Business Adm, Rehovot, Israel; [Shuv-Ami, Avichai] Acad Studies, Coll Management, Rishon Leziyyon, Israel; [Sela, Yaron] Interdisciplinary Ctr Herzliya, Sch Commun, Herzliyya, Israel; [Alon, Anat Toder] Peres Acad Ctr, Sch Business Adm, Rehovot, Israel								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000604766000001	88	Article; Article		
J	Hallmann, Kirstin; Zehrer, Anita; Rietz, Julia								Sport events as experiencescapes: the spectator's perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	4			764	779		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2020-0056			OCT 12 2021	2021	Purpose Combining sport event tourism and experience economy has led to an experience-based explanation of sport tourists' behavior and the creation of experiencescapes. This study aims to analyze the interdependence of perceived experiences and revisit intention across three events. Design/methodology/approach Using a survey, data (n = 986) were collected from spectators at the ice hockey world championships, the table tennis world championships and motorsport events (e.g. German-touring car championship). Entertainment, esthetics, escapism and education served as dimensions defining the experience at sport events and their association with revisit intention. The models were tested using confirmatory factor analyses and structural equation modeling. Findings The four dimensions of experience were confirmed. Yet, they differ across the three sport events. For instance, whereas entertainment loaded highest on experience for all events, education had the second-highest factor loading for the table tennis event and esthetics for the ice hockey and motorsports events. Practical implications Sport event marketers must understand spectators' experiences and the influence on post-consumption behavior. For motorsports, the promotional material should emphasize the esthetics of an experience, for ice hockey the entertainment, and for table tennis education is at the core of the experience. Originality/value This study employed the four realms of experience to a sport event setting, which is new. The results suggested that the three sport events provide distinct experiencescapes for the spectators.		[Hallmann, Kirstin; Rietz, Julia] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Zehrer, Anita] MCI Management Ctr Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria; [Hallmann, Kirstin] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany								30							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000604766100001	76	Article; Article		
J	Goulette, Danielle; Griffith, Patrick; Schiller, Michael; Rutherford, Drew; Kernozek, Thomas W.								Patellofemoral joint loading during the forward and backward lunge								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				178	184		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.001			JAN 2021	2021	Objective: To examine patellofemoral joint (PFJ) loading in two lunge movements: Forward Lunge (FL) and Backward Lunge (BL). Design: Repeated Measures. Setting: University Biomechanics Laboratory. Participants: 20 asymptomatic females. Main outcome measures: Six trials of two lunge movements (FL and BL) to a depth of 75% of leg length were performed. 3-D motion capture and force platforms were used to collect data as input into a musculoskeletal model to determine quadriceps force, PFJ reaction force, PFJ stress, and knee flexion angle. Results: Multivariate analysis indicated differences in PFJ loading variables and joint angles between the lunge movements (Forward vs. Backward) and phases (Down vs. Up). Quadriceps force, PFJ reaction force, and knee flexion angle were larger in the FL movement and Up phases. PFJ loading rate was greater in the FL movement along with a lower forward trunk tilt. Conclusion: The FL produced greater PFJ loading variables compared to the BL. Further research is needed to examine a population of individuals who have patellofemoral pain (PFP) to see if their symptoms may be reduced when using the BL. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Goulette, Danielle; Griffith, Patrick; Schiller, Michael; Rutherford, Drew; Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin La Crosse, Hlth Sci Ctr, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, Phys Therapy Program,Dept Hlth Profess, 1300 Badger St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Kernozek, Thomas W.] Univ Wisconsin La Crosse, Hlth Sci Ctr, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, Phys Therapy Program,Dept Hlth Profess, 1300 Badger St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500026	47	Article; Article		
J	Ocarino, Juliana M.; Resende, Renan A.; Bittencourt, Natalia F. N.; Correa, Ricardo V. A.; Mendonca, Luciana M.; Reis, Guilherme F.; Souza, Thales R.; Fonseca, Sergio T.								Normative data for hip strength, flexibility and stiffness in male soccer athletes and effect of age and limb dominance								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				53	58		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.11.022			JAN 2021	2021	Objective: The objective was to establish normative data for hip strength, flexibility, and stiffness in male soccer athletes and to investigate the effect of age and limb dominance on these variables. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Soccer team physical therapy department. Participants: A total of 293 asymptomatic male soccer athletes were assessed. Elite youth players aged 15-17 years and professional adult players aged 18-29 years old. Main outcome measures: Rectus femoris, iliopsoas, hamstring muscle flexibility, passive hip stiffness, and isometric hip strength were measured using a goniometer, inclinometer, and handheld dynamometer, respectively. Descriptive and mixed analyses of variance were used as statistical procedures. Results: The dominant limb had lower iliopsoas (P = 0.010) and rectus femoris (P = 0.003) flexibility and higher external rotators torque compared to the non-dominant limb (P = 0.006) in both age groups. In adult athletes, the dominant limb had lower hip stiffness than the non-dominant limb (P = 0.002). Adults had higher hip external rotator torque than younger athletes (P < 0.0001). No differences were observed for hamstrings flexibility and hip extensors torque. Conclusion: This study provided normative data of hip strength, flexibility, and stiffness for youth and adult male soccer athletes. In addition, there were no clinically relevant inter-limb differences. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ocarino, Juliana M.; Resende, Renan A.; Correa, Ricardo V. A.; Reis, Guilherme F.; Souza, Thales R.; Fonseca, Sergio T.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy, Dept Phys Therapy, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Bittencourt, Natalia F. N.] Ctr Univ Belo Horizonte, Dept Phys Therapy, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Mendonca, Luciana M.] Univ Fed Vale Jequitinhonha & Mucuri, Dept Phys Therapy, Diamantina, MG, Brazil; [Ocarino, Juliana M.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Phys Educ, Dept Phys Therapy, Phys Therapy & Occupat Therapy Sch, Campus Pampulha,Ave Antonio Carlos 6627, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500009	29	Article; Article		
J	Cady, K.; Croix, M. De Ste; Deighan, M.								Back foot influence on dorsiflexion using three different positions of the weight bearing lunge test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.005			JAN 2021	2021	Objectives: To determine whether back foot (BF) position influences dorsiflexion range of motion (DFROM) during three different positions of the weight bearing lunge test (WBLT). Design: Randomised, repeated measures design. Setting: Sports clubs. Participants: 52 athletes participating in cutting and pivoting sports. Main outcome measures: DFROM was obtained using a WBLT in three different BF positions: BF heel in full contact with the floor, BF heel raised off the floor and BF was non weight bearing (NWB). All measurements were obtained using three methods: inclinometer at the tibial tuberosity, toe to wall distance and goniometer angle from the lateral malleolus to the fibula head. Differences between testing positions were determined using a repeated measures one-way ANOVA and reliability analysis was performed using the Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC). Results: DFROM was statistically significantly different for all three positions of the WBLT for each measurement technique (P < .001). These results were associated with large effect sizes for all BF positions and measurement techniques. Reliability ICC values were excellent for all measurements (ICC 0.94-0.99). Conclusions: Results show that DFROM differs depending upon the position of the BF during the WBLT. Further research is needed to establish the reproducibility of these three BF positions due to the variability observed. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Cady, K.; Croix, M. De Ste; Deighan, M.] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Oxstalls Campus,Oxstalls Lane, Gloucester GL2 9HW, England; [Cady, K.] Univ Hertfordshire, Sch Life & Med Sci, Coll Lane, Hatfield AL10 9AB, Herts, England; [Cady, K.] Univ Hertfordshire, Sch Life & Med Sci, Coll Lane, Hatfield AL10 9AB, Herts, England								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500002	31	Article; Article		
J	Zambarano, Erika K.; Bouillon, Lucinda; Glaviano, Neal R.								Relationship between lumbopelvic-hip complex stability, muscle activity, and 2-dimensional kinematics of the trunk and lower extremity								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				7	14		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.003			JAN 2021	2021	Objectives: To observe isolated lumbopelvic-hip complex (LPHC) stability and muscle activity using the Seated Trunk Control Test (STCT) and evaluate the relationship between LPHC stability and 2-dimensional kinematics during movements. Design: Descriptive Study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 22 healthy participants (12F, 10M, 23.5 +/- 3.1yrs, 173.0 +/- 9.0 cm, 76.1 +/- 10.7 kg). Main outcome measure(s): Time to first error and number of errors, and muscle activity of the abdominals, erector spinae, and gluteus medius were recorded during the STCT. Lateral trunk movement, hip and knee frontal plane projection angles, hip and knee flexion during single leg squats and single leg drop vertical jumps were measured. Pearson r correlations were calculated among STCT performance, muscle activity, and 2-dimensional kinematics. Results: Number of errors was moderately correlated to hip and knee flexion during single leg squatting (r = 0.456-0.649, p < 0.05). Number of errors and time to first error were moderately correlated to knee-frontal plane projection angle and hip flexion respectively during single leg drop vertical jumping (r = 0.463-0.515, p < 0.05). Conclusions: Decreased LPHC stability relates to decreased sagittal plane motion during single leg squatting and increased frontal plane motion during single leg drop vertical jumping. Pairing the STCT with 2-dimensional kinematic analysis can demonstrate influence of LPHC function. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Zambarano, Erika K.; Bouillon, Lucinda; Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Connecticut, Storrs, CT USA; [Zambarano, Erika K.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500003	48	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Nathaniel S.; Sethi, Neal; Wieschhaus, Kyle; Mak, Ryan; Wesolowski, Michael; Schiff, Adam; Tonino, Pietro M.								Medical Supervision of Illinois Public and Private High School Athletics								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	1			64	70		10.1080/00913847.2020.1868954			JAN 2 2022	2022	Background: High-school sports participation in the United States has increased over the years with a corresponding increase in the number of injuries. Leading medical and sports organizations nationwide advocate for an increase in proper medical supervision of athletes. Objectives: To analyze athletic medical coverage in Illinois high schools and compare differences between public and private Illinois high school. Methods: A survey addressing various components of sports medical coverage was distributed in 2018 to all 810 Illinois High School Association (IHSA) high schools to be completed electronically. Results: The response rate was 50% (407/810 schools). Of the responding schools, 14% were private high schools and 86% public high schools. An orthopedic surgeon, family doctor, pediatrician, or another type of physician were present on sidelines in 9.2% of private high schools and 8.5% of public high schools. Athletic trainers (ATs) were present on sidelines in 91% of private high schools and in 79% of public high schools. There was 68% of private high schools reporting coaches trained in CPR versus 85% in public high schools. Both private and public high schools had high rates of having written emergency action plans (89% vs 91%), AED on site (100% vs 99%), written concussion management protocols (96% vs 97%). Conclusion: Our study found similar rates of high school medical coverage as compared to national studies, with some significant differences found between private and public high schools. Most Illinois high schools had high rates of having written EAPs, concussion management protocols and AEDs on site. Overall, an increase of medical supervision and emergency preparedness is needed, which should come in the form of increasing AT and physician presence alongside community and school engagement for improved implementation of coverage.		[Jones, Nathaniel S.; Sethi, Neal; Wieschhaus, Kyle; Mak, Ryan; Wesolowski, Michael; Schiff, Adam; Tonino, Pietro M.] Loyola Univ Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Anesthesiol, Maywood, IL 60153 USA; [Sethi, Neal] Loyola Univ Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Anesthesiol, Maywood, IL 60153 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604004000001	29	Article; Article		
J	De Blaiser, Cedric; Roosen, Philip; Willems, Tine; De Bleecker, Camilla; Vermeulen, Stefan; Danneels, Lieven; De Ridder, Roel								The role of core stability in the development of non-contact acute lower extremity injuries in an athletic population: A prospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				165	172		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.11.035			JAN 2021	2021	Objectives: Stability of the core is associated with lower extremity functioning. Consequently, impaired core stability might play a role in developing non-contact acute lower extremity sports injuries. The objective was to investigate components of core stability as potential risk factors for acute lower extremity injuries. Design: A cohort study was set up with a follow-up and injury registration period of 1.5 years. Participants: 142 male and female physical education students were included. Main outcome measures: Measures of isometric hip and core muscular strength, endurance, proprioception and neuromuscular control of the core, and postural control were taken at the start of the study. Sports-related injury occurrence was registered during follow-up. Results: 27 (19%) injuries of interest occurred during follow-up. After multivariate model building, a significant predictive effect was found for side-to-side hip abduction strength asymmetry (p = .007). The hazard of developing an acute lower extremity injury increased with 6.2% with a 1 unit increase in side-to-side strength imbalance, regardless of gender. Conclusion: Hip abduction strength imbalance was determined as a risk factor for the development of non-contact, acute lower extremity injuries. Normalizing hip strength imbalances might be beneficial for injury prevention. However, further research is needed to support this claim. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[De Blaiser, Cedric; Roosen, Philip; Willems, Tine; De Bleecker, Camilla; Vermeulen, Stefan; Danneels, Lieven; De Ridder, Roel] Univ Ghent, Dept Rehabil Sci, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium; [De Blaiser, Cedric] Univ Ghent, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Campus Heymans,3B3,Corneel Heymanslaan 10, BE-9000 Ghent, Belgium								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500024	43	Article; Article		
J	Sonesson, Sofi; Osterberg, Annika; Gauffin, Hakan; Ardern, Clare L.; Kvist, Joanna; Hagglund, Martin								Low correlation between functional performance and patient reported outcome measures in individuals with non-surgically treated ACL injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				185	192		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.006			JAN 2021	2021	Objective: Describe a consecutive cohort of people with a non-surgically treated ACL injury and evaluate correlations between functional performance and patient reported outcome measures (PROMs). Design: Cross-sectional. Participants: Sixty-eight individuals (38 males, 18-45 years old) 2-5 years after ACL injury. Main outcome measures: Tegner Activity Scale, International Knee Documentation Committee Subjective Knee Form (IKDC-SKF), Anterior Cruciate Ligament Return to Sport after Injury scale (ACL-RSI) and ACL-Quality of Life (ACL-QoL) were completed. Functional performance was assessed using 4 hop tests and a squat test. Results: Mean IKDC-SKF score was 72 +/- 17 and mean LSI on performance tests were above 90%. Tegner Activity Scale was reduced from median 8 pre-injury to 5 at follow up. Satisfaction with activity level was median 7 on a 10-point ordinal scale. Correlations were moderate to strong (r = 0.552-0.856) between PROMs, negligible to weak (r = 0.003-0.403) between performance tests and PROMs and negligible to moderate (r = 0.142-0.683) between performance tests. Conclusion: Functional performance had negligible or weak correlation to PROMs, which indicates the need for multi-modal assessment strategies. Activity level was reduced 2-5 years after a non-surgically treated ACL injury, but most patients were able to resume physical activity at a sufficient level to maintain health and displayed symmetrical functional performance. (C) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Sonesson, Sofi; Ardern, Clare L.; Kvist, Joanna; Hagglund, Martin] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Campus US,Entrance 78,Level 15, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden; [Osterberg, Annika] Uppsala Univ, Ctr Clin Res Sormland, Eskilstuna, Sweden; [Osterberg, Annika] Kullbergska Hosp, Dept Phys Therapy, Katrineholm, Sweden; [Gauffin, Hakan] Linkoping Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Linkoping, Sweden; [Gauffin, Hakan] Linkoping Univ, Dept Biomed & Clin Sci, Linkoping, Sweden; [Ardern, Clare L.] La Trobe Univ, Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Sonesson, Sofi] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Campus US,Entrance 78,Level 15, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500027	49	Article; Article		
J	Hearn, Darren W.; Frank, Barnett S.; Padua, Darin A.								Use of double leg injury screening to assess single leg biomechanical risk variables								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				40	45		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.006			JAN 2021	2021	Objectives: The purpose of this article was to determine if differences in kinematic and kinetic variables observed in a double-leg screen carried over to a single-leg task. Design: We used a case-control design with grouping based on performance during a double-leg jump landing. Setting: All participants were selected from a large university setting and testing was performed in a biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Participants were females between 18 and 25 years of age with at least high school varsity experience in one or more of the following sports: soccer, lacrosse, field hockey, rugby, basketball, or team handball. Main outcome measures: Primary outcome measures were knee angles in the frontal and sagittal planes as well as vertical ground reaction force (vGRF). Results: There were significant between group differences in peak knee flexion and knee flexion displacement during both the double and single-leg tasks, however between group differences for peak knee valgus and knee valgus displacement noted in the double-leg task were not observed in the single-leg task. vGRF was significantly different in the single-leg task but not the double-leg task. Conclusion: A double leg screening may not provide complete identification of risk of injury during sports requiring single leg tasks. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Hearn, Darren W.; Frank, Barnett S.; Padua, Darin A.] Univ N Carolina, MOTION Sci Inst, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Hearn, Darren W.] US Army, Ft Bragg, NC USA; [Hearn, Darren W.] Univ N Carolina, Human Movement Sci Curriculum, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Frank, Barnett S.] Utah Jazz Salt Lake City, Salt Lake City, UT USA; [Padua, Darin A.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Hearn, Darren W.] 4755 Pleast Hill Church Rd, Siler City, NC 27344 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500007	44	Article; Article		
J	Evans, Neil A.; Konz, Suzanne; Nitz, Arthur; Uhl, Tim L.								Reproducibility and discriminant validity of the Posterior Shoulder Endurance Test in healthy and painful populations								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				66	71		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.014			JAN 2021	2021	Objective: This investigation measured the reproducibility and discriminant validity of the Posterior Shoulder Endurance Test (PSET) on painful and non-painful populations. Design: Reliability and validity study. Setting: Laboratory setting. Participants: Thirty subjects (male = 11; female = 19). Main outcome measures: Time to failure (TTF) was the primary outcome measure to determine reliability of the PSET. Discriminant validity identified with receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves utilized TTF separately in men and women since they used different loads. Results: There were 25/30 subjects (painful = 12; non-painful = 13) tested a second time. ICC, SEM, and MDC90 ranged respectively from 0.77, 13.1 s, 30.6 s in the painful group to 0.85, 7.3 s, 17 s in the non-painful group. The male ROC curve AUC was 0.833 with 47 s resulting in the best combination of sensitivity = 0.833, and specificity = 0.80. The female ROC curve AUC was 0.633 with 46 s resulting in the best combination of sensitivity = 0.600 and specificity = 0.889 at 46 s. Conclusion: The PSET is a reliable way to measure shoulder girdle muscular endurance. These data suggest that the PSET discriminates painful and non-painful individuals better in men compared to women. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Y		[Evans, Neil A.] Ohio Univ, Div Phys Therapy, Grover Ctr W279, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Konz, Suzanne] Marshall Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Huntington, WV USA; [Nitz, Arthur; Uhl, Tim L.] Univ Kentucky, Rehabil Sci, Lexington, KY USA; [Evans, Neil A.] Ohio Univ, Div Phys Therapy, Grover Ctr W279, Athens, OH 45701 USA								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500011	29	Article; Article		
J	Vallance, Patrick; Hasani, Fatmah; Crowley, Liam; Malliaras, Peter								Self-reported pain with single leg heel raise or single leg hop offer distinct information as measures of severity in men with midportion and insertional Achilles tendinopathy: An observational cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				23	31		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.009			JAN 2021	2021	Objectives: To investigate if self-reported pain with single leg heel raise (SLHR) or single leg hop (SLH) are concurrently valid to assess midportion (MPAT) or insertional Achilles tendinopathy (IAT) symptom severity, compared to the VISA-A. Additionally, if SLHR or SLH pain accounts for VISA-A variability, and if they are associated with psychological factors. Participants: 60 men with MPAT, 26 men with IAT. Main outcomes: Participants rated SLHR and SLH pain on a numerical rating scale (0 = none, 10 = worst). We investigated relationships between loading task pain, VISA-A, VISA-A constructs, and psychological outcomes (Pearson's correlation coefficients). Linear regression determined best model accounting for VISA-A variability. Results: In MPAT, load tests shared fair-negative relationship with VISA-A, and VISA-A function. In IAT, SLHR had moderately strong-negative relationship with VISA-A, and pain and function constructs, and SLH shared fair-negative relationship with VISA-A, and pain and function constructs. Relationships were negligible between load tests and VISA-A activity in both conditions, and VISA-A pain in MPAT. In IAT, there was fair-positive relationship between pain catastrophising and load tests. Remaining psychological outcome relationships were negligible. Best model accounting for VISA-A included SLH in MPAT, and SLHR in IAT. Conclusions: Despite VISA-A and selected VISA-A construct associations, self-reported SLHR and SLH pain appears to provide distinct information. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Vallance, Patrick; Hasani, Fatmah; Crowley, Liam; Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Victoria, Australia; [Vallance, Patrick] Peninsula Sports Med Grp, Langwarrin, Vic, Australia; [Crowley, Liam] Physio & Fitness Clin, Seaford, Vic, Australia; [Malliaras, Peter] Complete Sports Care, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Vallance, Patrick] Monash Univ, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy, Peninsula Campus,47-49 Moorooduc Hwy, Frankston, Vic 3199, Australia								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500005	35	Article; Article		
J	Lindblom, Hanna; Hagglund, Martin; Sonesson, Sofi								Intra- and interrater reliability of subjective assessment of the drop vertical jump and tuck jump in youth athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				156	164		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.11.031			JAN 2021	2021	Objectives: To investigate intra- and interrater reliability of the subjective assessments of filmed DVJ and TJA in youth male and female soccer players and to compare subjective assessment of the DVJ with two-dimensional movement analysis. Design: Cross-sectional study. Participants: 115 soccer players (66 boys, 49 girls) mean age 14 +/- 1 (range 13-16) years. Main outcome measures: Knee control during landing phase of DVJ was assessed using a 3-graded scoring scale. TJA was assessed according to ten criteria using a dichotomous grading scale. Subjective assessment of DVJ was compared with calculation of normalized knee separation distance (NKSD). Results: Intrarater reliability for DVJ was substantial to almost perfect (kappa 0.72 rater 1; 0.85 rater 2). Interrater reliability was substantial to almost perfect (kappa from 0.68 to 0.83). The TJA total score intrarater reliability was ICC 0.59 for rater 1 and 0.90 for rater 2. Interrater reliability ranged from ICC 0.51 to 0.60. There were between-group differences in mean NKSD during DVJ for players rated as 0, 1 and 2, but within-group variability was large. Conclusion: Assessment of DVJ and TJA in youth athletes was rater dependent. Players with subjectively assessed reduced or poor knee control had smaller normalized knee separation distance in DVJ. (C) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Lindblom, Hanna; Hagglund, Martin; Sonesson, Sofi] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Campus US,Entrance 78,Level 15, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden; [Lindblom, Hanna; Hagglund, Martin; Sonesson, Sofi] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Sport Injury ProgrammE SWIPE, Linkoping, Sweden; [Sonesson, Sofi] Linkoping Univ, Dept Hlth Med & Caring Sci, Unit Physiotherapy, Campus US,Entrance 78,Level 15, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500023	39	Article; Article		
J	Bueno, Cesar Augusto; de Araujo Ribeiro-Alvares, Joao Breno; Oliveira, Gabriel dos Santos; Grazioli, Rafael; Veeck, Filipe; Pinto, Ronei Silveira; Cadore, Eduardo Lusa; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini								Post-match recovery of eccentric knee flexor strength in male professional football players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				140	146		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.11.032			JAN 2021	2021	Objectives: This study aimed at verifying the effect of a football match on the eccentric knee flexor strength of male professional players along a 72-h period. Study design: Quasi-experimental study. Setting: Football club facilities. Participants: Fifteen players were assessed in four timepoints: 24 h before, immediately after, 48 h and 72 h after the match. Main outcome measures: The eccentric knee flexor strength was assessed during the Nordic hamstring exercise execution. Results: Players presented a significant strength reduction immediately after match (D = 12%; p = 0.001; large effect size, Delta = 1.10), and did not recover their strength capacity within a 48 h-period (Delta = 6%; p = 0.011; moderate effect size, d = 0.57). At 72 h after the match, strength was similar to baseline levels (Delta = 3.5%; p = 0.122; small effect size, d = 0.34). Secondarily, individual response analysis considered a player 'fully recovered' when his strength deficit compared to the baseline measure was lower than the measurement coefficient of variation (i.e., <5%). Only 6 (40%) and 9 (60%) players were `fully recovered' at 48 h and 72 h after the match, respectively. Conclusion: Professional football players experienced an immediately post-match drop on the eccentric knee flexor strength, and significant strength deficits persisted for a 48-h period. Some players were not recovered at 72 h after the match. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bueno, Cesar Augusto; de Araujo Ribeiro-Alvares, Joao Breno; Oliveira, Gabriel dos Santos; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Univ Fed Ciencias Saude Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Grazioli, Rafael; Veeck, Filipe; Pinto, Ronei Silveira; Cadore, Eduardo Lusa] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Sarmento Leite St 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500021	39	Article; Article		
J	Buttner, Fionn; Howell, David; Severini, Giacomo; Doherty, Cailbhe; Blake, Catherine; Ryan, John; Delahunt, Eamonn								Using functional movement tests to investigate the presence of sensorimotor impairment in amateur athletes following sport-related concussion: A prospective, longitudinal study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				105	113		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.012			JAN 2021	2021	Objective: To longitudinally investigate the presence of sensorimotor impairments in amateur athletes following sport-related concussion using two functional movement tests. Design: Prospective, longitudinal study. Setting: Human movement analysis laboratory. Participants: Athletes who presented to a hospital emergency department and were diagnosed with sport-related concussion, and sex-, age-, and activity-matched non-concussed, control athletes. Concussed participants were assessed within one-week following sport-related concussion, upon clearance to return-to-sporting activity (RTA), and two weeks after RTA. Control participants were assessed at an initial time-point and approximately two and four weeks following their initial study assessment. Main outcomes measures: At each laboratory assessment, participants completed two functional movement tests: the Star Excursion Balance Test to evaluate anterior reach distance (normalised for leg length) and fractal dimension (centre of pressure path complexity), and the Multiple Hop Test to evaluate corrective postural strategies and time-to-stabilisation. Results: Fifty concussed athletes and 50 control athletes completed the study. There were no significant differences at any study assessment between the concussion and control group on the Star Excursion Balance Test anterior reach distance or fractal dimension (centre of pressure path complexity). During the Multiple Hop Test, the concussion group used a significantly greater number of corrective postural strategies than the control group one-week following sport-related concussion and upon clearance to RTA, but not two weeks following RTA. Conclusion: Recently concussed athletes made a greater number of corrective postural strategies than control participants during the Multiple Hop Test upon clearance to RTA but not two weeks after RTA. The Multiple Hop Test may offer a clinically useful tool for practitioners to examine the recovery of subtle sensorimotor impairments and related RTA readiness. (C) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Buttner, Fionn; Doherty, Cailbhe; Blake, Catherine; Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Howell, David] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David] Univ Colorado, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Severini, Giacomo] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Elect & Elect Engn, Dublin, Ireland; [Severini, Giacomo] Univ Coll Dublin, Insight Ctr Data Analyt, Dublin, Ireland; [Severini, Giacomo] Univ Coll Dublin, UCD Ctr Biomed Engn, Dublin, Ireland; [Ryan, John] St Vincents Univ Hosp, Emergency Dept, Elm Pk, Dublin 4, Ireland; [Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; [Buttner, Fionn] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500016	90	Article; Article		
J	Molina-Rueda, Francisco; Cuesta-Gomez, Alicia; Carratala-Tejada, Maria; Koutsou, Aikaterini; Fernandez-Gonzalez, Pilar; Maria Alguacil-Diego, Isabel								Ankle muscle activation during the limits of stability test in subjects with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				134	139		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.11.033			JAN 2021	2021	Objective: To study postural control and muscle activity during the limit of stability test (LOS) in subjects with chronic ankle instability. Design: Observational study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: 10 healthy subjects were included in the control group and 10 subjects in the CAI group (age between 18 and 30 years, with history of the multiple ankle "giving way" episodes in the last six months and score <= 24 in the Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool). Main outcome measures: A computerized dynamic posturography equipment was used for assessing the LOS. The electromyography activity of tibialis anterior (TA), soleus (SOL), medial gastrocnemius (MG) and peroneus longus (PL) was registered. Results: Subjects with CAI had a greater activation in TA to forward (p < .01), forward affected (p = .001), backward affected (p = .007) and backward directions (p < .01); in PL to forward affected (p < .01) and affected directions (p = .001); in MG to forward (p = .023) and affected directions (p < .01) and in SOL to the affected direction (p = .009). We observed restricted excursions and less directional control in subjects with CAI. Conclusions: Subjects with CAI exhibited poorer ability to move their center of gravity within stability limits. In addition, they have an altered ankle muscle activity during LOS test toward the affected ankle joint. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Molina-Rueda, Francisco; Cuesta-Gomez, Alicia; Carratala-Tejada, Maria; Koutsou, Aikaterini; Fernandez-Gonzalez, Pilar; Maria Alguacil-Diego, Isabel] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Phys Therapy Occupat Therapy Rehabil & Phys Med D, Avda Atenas S-N, Madrid 28922, Spain; [Molina-Rueda, Francisco; Cuesta-Gomez, Alicia; Carratala-Tejada, Maria; Koutsou, Aikaterini; Fernandez-Gonzalez, Pilar; Maria Alguacil-Diego, Isabel] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Cuesta-Gomez, Alicia] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Phys Therapy Occupat Therapy Rehabil & Phys Med D, Avda Atenas S-N, Madrid 28922, Spain								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500020	26	Article; Article		
J	Kons, Rafael L.; Dal Pupo, Juliano; Gheller, Rodrigo G.; Costa, Filipe E.; Rodrigues, Matheus M.; Bishop, Chris; Detanico, Daniele								Effects of successive judo matches on interlimb asymmetry and bilateral deficit								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				15	22		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.007			JAN 2021	2021	Objective: To verify the effects of successive judo matches on interlimb asymmetry and bilateral deficit in judo athletes. Design: Repeated measures; Setting: University Judo center. Participants: Fourteen male judo athletes. Outcome measures: Four simulated matches consisting of 4-min. Before the first match and after each match athletes were submitted to single leg tests - Countermovement Jump (SLCMJ) and Standing Long Jump (SLSLJ), and handgrip strength (HGS) in the dominant and non-dominant limbs. Interlimb asymmetry was calculated in both jumps and handgrip strength tests. Results: Most jump-derived variables did not change the magnitude of asymmetry throughout the matches (p > 0.05), with the exception of jump height asymmetry in SLCMJ, that increased after the second match (p = 0.001). The HGS decreased in both hands from the first match (p < 0.001), without asymmetry. The highest bilateral strength deficit was observed in post-match 1 and post-match 2 (close to 10%). Conclusion: Four-successive judo matches did not change the magnitude of interlimb asymmetry, with exception of SLCMJ height, which increased after the second match. The handgrip strength decreased throughout the matches, but similarly in both hands. Finally, the direction of asymmetry showed consistency throughout the matches only for SLCMJ height. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kons, Rafael L.; Dal Pupo, Juliano; Gheller, Rodrigo G.; Costa, Filipe E.; Rodrigues, Matheus M.; Detanico, Daniele] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomech Lab, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Kons, Rafael L.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomech Lab, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								31							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500004	36	Article; Article		
J	Decleve, Ph; Cant, J. Van; Attar, T.; Urbain, E.; Marcel, M.; Borms, D.; Cools, Ann M.								The shoulder endurance test (SET): A reliability and validity and comparison study on healthy overhead athletes and sedentary adults								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				201	207		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.12.005			JAN 2021	2021	Objectives: The primary purpose was to examine the reliability of a new shoulder physical performance test -the Shoulder Endurance Test (SET)- in young healthy overhead athletes and sedentary adults and to provide preliminary reference values. The secondary objective was to determine whether there are differences on SET scores based on groups, sides and days. The third objective was to evaluate the relationship between the SET and shoulder rotational isometric strength in both groups. Design: Reliability and validity study. Setting: Laboratory setting. Participants: A total sample of 92 participants volunteered to participate in this study (30 healthy overhead athletes - 62 sedentary adults). Main outcome measures: We used a two-session measurement design separated by seven days to evaluate the reliability. We calculated intraclass correlation coefficients to determine relative reliability and used standard error of measurement and minimal detectable change to quantify absolute reliability. Systematic differences in SET scores between groups, days and sides were analysed with a two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) for repeated measures. To check for systematic differences within groups between day 1 and day 2, a Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test was performed. Relationship between shoulder rotational isometric strength and the SET was determined using the Spearman Rank test (r(s)). Results: Relative reliability was high to very high in both groups (intraclass correlation coefficient [2,1] range = 0.78-0.93) and absolute reliability was clinically acceptable. The standard error of measurement varied from 10.7 s to 16.45 s. The minimal detectable change ranged from 29.6 s to 45.6 s. Weak correlations were found between the SET and isometric shoulder rotational strength (r(s) range = 0.309 -0.431). Results: of the ANOVA for repeated measures showed a significant two-way interaction effect for day x groups (p = 0.020) and a significant main effect for side (p = < 0.001). Results of the Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test showed no systematic differences in group 1 between day 1 and day 2 for both sides (p = 0.79 dominant side; p = 0.66 non-dominant side). Conclusions: The SET is a reliable clinically applicable shoulder physical performance test in young adult overhead athletes and sedentary adult. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Decleve, Ph; Borms, D.; Cools, Ann M.] Univ Ghent, Dept Rehabil Sci, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Corneel Heymanslaan 10,B3, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium; [Decleve, Ph; Cant, J. Van; Attar, T.; Urbain, E.; Marcel, M.] Inst Parnasse ISEI, Dept Phys Therapy, Ave Mounier 84, B-1200 Brussels, Belgium; [Cant, J. Van] Univ Libre Bruxelles, Fac Motor Sci, Brussels, Belgium; [Decleve, Ph] Inst Parnasse ISEI, Dept Phys Therapy, Ave Mounier 84, B-1200 Brussels, Belgium								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500029	41	Article; Article		
J	Sponbeck, Joshua K.; Hunter, Iain; Neves, Katy A.; Swanson, Dallin C.; Swanson, Derek A.; Johnson, A. Wayne								Achilles tendon single bout and season long adaptations during early and late collegiate cross-country season								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				114	119		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.11.028			JAN 2021	2021	Aims: To examine single bout and season long Achilles tendon cross-sectional area (CSA) changes before and after running during the early and late cross-country season. Design: Observational: repeated measures design study. Setting: Controlled laboratory setting. Participants: This study consisted of 35 participants. The running group included 11 males and 9 females, the control group was 8 males and 7 females. Main outcome measures: Diagnostic ultrasound images were taken before and after runners completed a common recovery run during the early and late cross-country season. Ultrasound images of control participants, who did not run, were taken following an averaged time that athletes spent running. Results: No significant tendon season long CSA increases occurred for runners (p = 0.453). Runners experienced significant Achilles tendon CSA decreases compared within subjects (p < 0.05) and between controls (p < 0.05). Significant CSA decreases occurred for runners during the early and late season run (p < 0.05) with greater percentages of decrease in the early season (p = 0.009). Male and female runners experienced similar CSA decreases while running (p = 0.696). Conclusions: No Achilles tendon CSA increases occurred over the season. Significant Achilles tendon CSA decreases occurred while running during early and late season runs, but varied with larger CSA decreases occurring during the early season. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sponbeck, Joshua K.; Hunter, Iain; Neves, Katy A.; Swanson, Dallin C.; Swanson, Derek A.; Johnson, A. Wayne] Brigham Young Univ, Exercise Sci Dept, 1000 N Univ Ave, Provo, UT 84604 USA; [Johnson, A. Wayne] Brigham Young Univ, Exercise Sci Dept, 1000 N Univ Ave, Provo, UT 84604 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500017	28	Article; Article		
J	Evin, Heather A.; Mahoney, Sean J.; Wagner, Matt; Bond, Colin W.; MacFadden, Lisa N.; Noonan, Benjamin C.								Limb occlusion pressure for blood flow restricted exercise: Variability and relations with participant characteristics								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				47				78	84		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.11.026			JAN 2021	2021	Objective: Assess lower-extremity blood flow restricted exercise (BFR) limb occlusion pressure (LOP) variability and identify related intrinsic characteristics using a portable Delphi BFR system. Design: Repeated measures. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Forty-two healthy males (n = 25) and females (n = 17) (25.8 +/- 5.2 y, 1.76 +/- 0.09 m, 78.9 +/- 14.9 kg) completed two visits. Brachial artery blood pressure, thigh circumferences (TC), and LOP were measured supine. Main outcome measures: Linear mixed-effects models (LMM) and generalizability theory were used to evaluate LOP between legs and days, determine intrinsic characteristic relations, and assess random variance components. Results: LOP was not different between legs (p = .730) or days (p = .916; grand mean = 183.7 mmHg [178.4, 189.1]). LOP varied significantly between participants (p = .011, standard error = 47.3 mmHg). 47% of LOP variance was between participants, 18% and 6% was within participants between days and legs, respectively, and 28% was associated with random error. The relative error variance was 14.4 mmHg. Pulse pressure (PP) (p = .005) and TC (p = .040) were positively associated with LOP. A LMM including PP and TC predicted LOP with a mean absolute difference of 11.1 mmHg [9.7, 12.6] compared to measured LOP. Conclusions: The relative error variance suggests that clinicians should measure LOP consistently for each patient to ensure BFR safety and effectiveness. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Evin, Heather A.; Mahoney, Sean J.; Wagner, Matt; Bond, Colin W.; MacFadden, Lisa N.; Noonan, Benjamin C.] Sanford Hlth, Sanford Orthoped & Sports Med, Fargo, ND USA; [Bond, Colin W.] Sanford Orthoped & Sports Med, 1711 S Univ Dr, Fargo, ND 58103 USA								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604961500013	31	Article; Article		
J	Pirruccio, Kevin; Hoge, Connor; Kelly, John D.								Comparison of in-season and off-season wrestling injuries presenting to United States emergency departments: 2000-2018								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	1			54	59		10.1080/00913847.2020.1865780			JAN 2 2022	2022	Objectives Wrestling is a physically demanding sport with an inherently high risk of injury relative to other sports. Injury risk factors may change dramatically for athletes participating in off-season wrestling, given exposure to new opponents, training methods, and wrestling styles compared with in-season months; however, this has never been elucidated in the literature. This study seeks to characterize the injuries sustained while participating in off-season wrestling and compare them to injuries sustained during the in-season months for middle and high school age athletes. Methods The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) database was queried (2000-2018) to directly compare national estimates and injury characteristics of middle and high school age patients (11-18 years of age) presenting to US emergency departments (EDs) with wrestling-associated injuries, stratified by in-season and off-season months. Results The average annual number of patients 11 to 18 years of age presenting to US EDs with wrestling-associated injuries was 20,157 (95% Confidence Interval [C.I.] 16,622-23,691) during in-season months and 5,321 (C.I. 3,954-6,688) during off-season months between 2000 and 2018. Those sustaining in-season injuries were significantly (p < 0.001) more and less likely to injure their upper trunk (8.0%; C.I. 7.1% - 8.8%) and wrists (3.7%; C.I. 3.2% - 4.2%), respectively, than those presenting with off-season injuries (upper trunk: 5.3%; C.I. 4.2% - 6.5%; wrists: 6.6%; C.I. 5.1% - 8.1%). There were no significant differences with respect to the overall prevalence of injury diagnoses between in-season and off-season patient cohorts, including for fractures and dislocations (p > 0.05). Conclusion These findings may alleviate concerns that off-season wrestling is inherently more dangerous than in-season wrestling due to changes in wrestling styles or opponent skill levels as the prevalence of specific injury diagnoses between the two seasons is similar.		[Pirruccio, Kevin] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Hoge, Connor] Univ Cincinnati, Coll Med, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Kelly, John D.] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Clin Orthopaed Surg, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Pirruccio, Kevin] Univ Penn, Perelman Sch Med, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000604006600001	23	Article; Article		
J	Wesley Keefer, Quinn Andrew								Did the 2011 Change to NFL Rookie Compensation Alter How Sunk Costs Affect Utilization?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	4			387	411	1527002520983434	10.1177/1527002520983434			MAY 2021	2021	The 2011 NFL collective bargaining agreement introduced significant changes to rookie compensation, including a rookie wage scale. We test if the new rules changed how sunk costs affect utilization for drafted rookies. Our regression discontinuity results show a robust sunk-cost fallacy that is similar in magnitude to the one documented under the previous agreement. Second-round selections play significantly less than their first-round counterparts, as measured by percentage of games started, total snaps played, and percentage of snaps played. However, the effect is not evident beyond the rookie season. Additional results show coaching success and coaching changes are important factors.		[Wesley Keefer, Quinn Andrew] Calif State Univ San Marcos, Econ, San Marcos, CA USA; [Wesley Keefer, Quinn Andrew] Calif State Univ San Marcos, 333 S Twin Oaks Valley Rd, San Marcos, CA 92078 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000609698400001	40	Article; Article		
J	de Lima, Tiago Rodrigues; Gonzalez-Chica, David Alejandro; Franco Moreno, Yara Maria; Santos Silva, Diego Augusto								The independent and joint associations between muscle strength, health variables and cardiovascular disease among adults								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	1			38	46		10.1080/00913847.2020.1862633			JAN 2 2022	2022	Objectives: We investigated the independent and joint association between muscle strength and health variables according to individual health status among adults. Methods: Cross-sectional population-based study comprising 643 adults (39.6 +/- 11.1 years, 44.9% men) from Florianopolis, Southern Brazil. Muscle strength was assessed by handgrip strength. Health variables included were systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), waist circumference (WC), carotid intima-media thickness (IMT), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (CRP), total cholesterol (CHOL), HDL cholesterol (HDL-C), triglycerides (TRG), glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), and insulin resistance index (HOMA-IR). Participants were grouped into three health status categories: 1) healthy (without CVD and risk for CVD); 2) at risk for CVD (obesity, high blood pressure, and hyperglycemia); 3) with CVD. Multiple linear regression adjusted for confounding factors was used. Results: Muscle strength was inversely associated with IMT (beta = -0.02, SE: 0.03), CHOL (beta = -0.14, SE: 0.02) and HbA1c (beta = -0.01, SE: 0.10), and directly associated with SBP (beta = 0.16, SE: 0.06) and WC (beta = 0.02, SE: 0.03). Among adults with CVD, muscle strength was inversely associated with IMT (p < 0.05). Higher muscle strength was directly associated with SBP among healthy adults (p < 0.05). Conclusion: The main finding of the present study indicated that among individuals with CVD, muscle strength was associated with lower IMT values.		[de Lima, Tiago Rodrigues; Santos Silva, Diego Augusto] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Res Ctr Kinanthropometry & Human Performance, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Gonzalez-Chica, David Alejandro] Univ Adelaide, Adelaide Med Sch, Discipline Gen Practice, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Gonzalez-Chica, David Alejandro] Univ Adelaide, Adelaide Rural Clin Sch, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Franco Moreno, Yara Maria] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Nutr, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [de Lima, Tiago Rodrigues] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Phys Educ, Sports Ctr, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000601098200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Yu, Ho Yeol; Robinson, G. Matthew; Lee, DongHun								To partner or not? A study of co-branding partnership and consumers' perceptions of symbolism and functionality toward co-branded sport products								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	4			677	698		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2020-0018			OCT 12 2021	2021	Purpose This study was conducted to examine the effect of co-branding, a brand partnership tactic involving two or more brands, on consumer behavior within the sport industry. As such, the primary aim was to examine differences regarding consumers' perceptions of self-image congruence and perceived product quality when considering solo-branding and co-branding conditions. Further, under the co-branding condition, relationships among consumers' self-image congruence, perceived product quality, image fit, product evaluation and purchase intention were investigated. Design/methodology/approach A scenario-based quasi-experiment consisting of hypothetical co-branding initiatives between existing brands was conducted. Findings Results from a repeated multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) indicated that consumers' symbolic and functional perceptions of co-branding as well as evaluations were statistically higher than in the solo-branding condition. Additionally, structural equation modeling indicated positive relationships between consumers' symbolic and functional perceptions, image fit, evaluation and behavior intention. Originality/value This study is one of the first papers to investigate the impact of co-branding on consumers within the sport industry and provides evidence of the positive impact of co-branding strategies on consumer behavior within the sport industry.		[Yu, Ho Yeol] Arkansas State Univ, Hlth Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Jonesboro, AR 72401 USA; [Robinson, G. Matthew] Schreiner Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kerrville, TX USA; [Lee, DongHun] Univ Houston, Hlth & Human Performance, Houston, TX USA; [Yu, Ho Yeol] Arkansas State Univ, Hlth Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Jonesboro, AR 72401 USA								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000600929300001	82	Article; Article		
J	Lago-Penas, Carlos; Kalen, Anton; Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel; Lopez-Del Campo, Roberto; Resta, Ricardo; Rey, Ezequiel								Do elite soccer players cover longer distance when losing? Differences between attackers and defenders								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			840	847	1747954120982270	10.1177/1747954120982270			JUN 2021	2021	This study aimed to evaluate the effects playing position, match location (home or away), quality of opposition (strong or weak), effective playing time (total time minus stoppages), and score-line on physical match performance in professional soccer players using a large-scale analysis. A total of 10,739 individual match observations of outfield players competing in the Spanish La Liga during the 2018-2019 season were recorded using a computerized tracking system (TRACAB, Chyronhego, New York, USA). The players were classified into five positions (central defenders, players = 94; external defenders, players = 82; central midfielders, players = 101; external midfielders, players = 72; and forwards, players = 67) and the following match running performance categories were considered: total distance covered, low-speed running (LSR) distance (0-14 km. h(-1)), medium-speed running (MSR) distance (14-21 km . h(-1)), high-speed running (HSR) distance (>21 km . h(-1)), very HSR (VHSR) distance (21-24 km . h(-1)), sprint distance (>24 km . h(-1)) Overall, match running performance was highly dependent on situational variables, especially the score-line condition (winning, drawing, losing). Moreover, the score-line affected players running performance differently depending on their playing position. Losing status increased the total distance and the distance covered at MSR, HSR, VHSR and Sprint by defenders, while attacking players showed the opposite trend. These findings may help coaches and managers to better understand the effects of situational variables on physical performance in La Liga and could be used to develop a model for predicting the physical activity profile in competition.		[Lago-Penas, Carlos; Kalen, Anton; Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel; Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Campus Univ S-N, Pontevedra, Spain; [Lopez-Del Campo, Roberto; Resta, Ricardo] LaLiga, Dept Competit & Mediacoach, Madrid, Spain; [Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Campus Univ S-N, Pontevedra, Spain								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000608799800001	24	Article; Article		
J	Taree, Amir; Charen, Daniel; Huang, Hsin-Hui; Poeran, Jashvant; Colvin, Alexis								Analysis of surgery rates among 25 national collegiate athletic association sports								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				50	1			30	37		10.1080/00913847.2020.1862632			JAN 2 2022	2022	Objectives: While injuries among collegiate athletes are common and well-studied, there have been no studies comparing which sports and injury types have the highest operation rates. This information would be valuable for athlete governing bodies and providers to improve player safety. Our hypothesis was the surgery incidence rates vary substantially between sports and injury types, with football and knee injuries representing the sport and injury type with the highest respective surgery rates. Methods: This was a descriptive epidemiology study of all injuries requiring surgery as recorded in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Injury Surveillance Program (ISP) for academic years 2004-2005 to 2013-2014. Surgery incidence rates (and 95% confidence intervals, CI) were calculated for each sport (per 10,000 athletic exposures [AE]) and for the most common injury types, by academic year. In addition, absolute numbers of performed surgeries were calculated as well as rates of return to sport. Results: Sports with the highest surgery incidence rate (per 10,000 AEs) were women's gymnastics (8.9; 95% CI 7.2-10.9), men's football (6.1; 95% CI 5.8-6.4), and men's wrestling (5.3; 95% CI 4.5-6.3). Absolute numbers of injury-related surgeries performed were greatest for men's football (n = 31,043), women's basketball (6,625), and men's basketball (5,717). Anterior cruciate ligament tears had the greatest surgery incidence rate per 100,000 AEs for all sports combined (7.95; 95% CI = 7.5 to 8.5), and also represented the injuries with the lowest rate of return to sport. Conclusion: Women's gymnastics, men's football, and men's and women's basketball are NCAA sports with an elevated risk of injury requiring of surgery. The results from this study can guide the NCAA and providers regarding which sports should be the focus of future research, new injury prevention strategies, and healthcare personnel allocation during events.		[Taree, Amir; Charen, Daniel; Huang, Hsin-Hui; Poeran, Jashvant; Colvin, Alexis] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New York, NY 10029 USA; [Charen, Daniel] Icahn Sch Med Mt Sinai, New York, NY 10029 USA								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000600763900001	36	Article; Article		
J	Kose, Huseyin; Argan, Metin; Hedlund, David P.								The influence of perceived fan orientation on satisfaction, loyalty and sport consumption behaviors								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	4			699	720		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2020-0011			OCT 12 2021	2021	Purpose The purpose of this research is to develop and validate a scale to measure the perceived orientation of sport organizations toward their fans, and subsequently, to test its relationship with six outcomes based on data from the fanbases of three distinct sport teams. Design/methodology/approach Using interviews and focus groups, important elements of fans' perceptions of their relationship with sport organizations are identified. After creating items based on the results of the interviews and focus groups, EFA, CFA and SEM procedures are used to create and test a multidimensional scale of perceived fan orientation. Findings Using EFA and CFA procedures, an 11-item, four-dimension scale of perceived fan orientation is validated, including components measuring (1) hosting events and campaigns for fans, (2) communicating information to fans, (3) interacting with fans when requests and problems arise and (4) providing preferential treatment to fans. The SEM results provide evidence of the impact of fan orientation on multiple measured outcomes for three professional football teams. Research limitations/implications This research is limited to three professional football teams in Turkey. However, the development of the multidimensional perceived fan orientation (PERFANOR) scale provides sport organizations' management and personnel with information about the relationship fans desire. Practical implications Sport managers, marketers and front-line staff are recommended to undertake activities to improve the relationship between the organization, team and its fans. Originality/value The principles and practices of relationship marketing and service quality often include discussions of the importance of "putting fans first," however until now, no multidimensional scale existed in sport which measures the perceived fan orientation of a sport organization.		[Kose, Huseyin; Argan, Metin] Eskisehir Tekn Univ, Dept Sport Management, Eskisehir, Turkey; [Hedlund, David P.] St Johns Univ, Div Sport Management, Queens, NY USA; [Kose, Huseyin] Eskisehir Tekn Univ, Dept Sport Management, Eskisehir, Turkey								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000600147300001	65	Article; Article		
J	Sugimoto, Dai; Lambrinakos-Raymond, Kristen; Kobelski, Greggory P.; Geminiani, Ellen T.; Stracciolini, Andrea; Meehan, William P., III								Sport specialization of female figure skaters: cumulative effects on low back injuries								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	4			463	468		10.1080/00913847.2020.1855483			OCT 2 2021	2021	Objective: 1) to determine the proportion of sport specialization among female figure skaters, 2) to compare proportion of low back injuries between specialized female figure skaters and non-specialized female figure skaters, and 3) to identify an independent risk factor(s) for low back injuries in female figure skaters. Methods: A cross-sectional questionnaire study was used. Young female figure skaters were asked questions related to sport specialization and any history of low back injuries. The primary outcome variables were status of sport specialization, weekly training hours, and low back injury. Descriptive statistics, t-test, chi-square analyses, and binary logistic regressions were used. Results: Responses from 132 female figure skaters (mean age: 16.3 +/- 2.7 years, age range: 8-22 years) were analyzed. Sixty-two percent (82/132) of figure skaters were specialized. Specialized female figure skaters spent more time in training (11.3 +/- 6.5 hours/week) than non-specialized skaters (7.6 +/- 4.9 hours/week, p = 0.001). No statistical differences were found in proportion of low back injury history between specialized (25.6%) and non-specialized female figure skaters (24.0%, p = 0.836). Chronological age was also identified as an independent risk factor for low back injuries in female figure skaters (aOR: 1.24, 95%CI: 1.00, 1.54, p = 0.048). Conclusions: The majority of female figure skaters in this cohort were specialized. An association between chronological age and low back injuries, found in the current study, may be a result of cumulative effects of participating in figure skating over time.		[Sugimoto, Dai] Waseda Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Sugimoto, Dai; Kobelski, Greggory P.; Geminiani, Ellen T.; Stracciolini, Andrea; Meehan, William P., III] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Lambrinakos-Raymond, Kristen] Ctr Pediat Emergencies, Brossard, PQ, Canada; [Kobelski, Greggory P.; Geminiani, Ellen T.; Stracciolini, Andrea; Meehan, William P., III] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Geminiani, Ellen T.; Stracciolini, Andrea; Meehan, William P., III] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Waseda Univ, Sch Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000599993300001	38	Article; Article		
J	Field, Adam; Page, Richard Michael; Corr, Liam; Naughton, Robert; Haines, Matthew; Harper, Liam David; Hudson, Sean								Lower-Limb Muscle Excitation, Peak Torque, and External Load Responses to a 120-Minute Treadmill-Based Soccer-Specific Simulation								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			368	378		10.1080/02701367.2020.1844858			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: The aim of this study was to investigate thigh musculature excitation and torque generation in response to soccer-specific exercise incorporating an extra-time (ET) period. Methods: Twelve semiprofessional soccer players performed 120-min treadmill-based soccer-specific exercise. Surface electromyography (EMG) signals for the rectus femoris (EMG(RF)) and biceps femoris (EMG(BF)) were measured as the mean response across a pre-determined 10-second sprint bout during each 15-min block of exercise. Peak eccentric torque of the knee flexors (eccKF) and concentric torque of the knee extensors (conKE) were recorded across angular velocities of 60, 180, and 270 deg center dot s(-1) immediately pre- and post-exercise. Tri-axial PlayerLoad (TM) (PL-T) was monitored throughout exercise and defined across vertical (PL-V), anterior-posterior (PL-AP), and medial-lateral (PL-ML) planes of motion. Results: A reduction in normalized EMG(RF) amplitude was evident at 105-120 min, versus 0-15 min (-12.5%; p = .037), 15-30 min (-12.5%; p = .047), and 45-60 min (-14%; p = .030). Peak torque of the eccKF was significantly reduced from pre- to post-exercise at 60 (-7.7%; p = .018), 180 (-10.5%; p = .042), and 270 deg center dot s(-1) (-7.5%; p = .034). A main effect for time was identified for PL-T (p < .010), PL-V (p = .033), and PL-AP (p < .010). Conclusions: These findings suggest that muscle excitation of the rectus femoris is reduced during ET, accompanied with a deficit in the torque generation of the knee flexors following 120 min of soccer-specific activity. Practitioners should adequately condition players for the additional ET period by incorporating exercises into training schedules that develop fatigue-resistant eccentric hamstring strength to minimize injury risk.		[Field, Adam; Corr, Liam; Naughton, Robert; Haines, Matthew; Harper, Liam David; Hudson, Sean] Univ Huddersfield, Huddersfield, W Yorkshire, England; [Page, Richard Michael] Edge Hill Univ, Ormskirk, England; [Field, Adam] Univ Huddersfield, Sch Human & Hlth Sci, Huddersfield HD1 3DH, W Yorkshire, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000597692600001	51	Article; Article		
J	Machado, Joao Claudio; Aquino, Rodrigo; Goes Junior, Alberto; Junior, Joao Bosco; Barreira, Daniel; Travassos, Bruno; Ibanez, Sergio Jose; Scaglia, Alcides Jose								Macro and micro network metrics as indicators of training tasks adjustment to players' tactical level								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			815	823	1747954120979561	10.1177/1747954120979561			JUN 2021	2021	We aimed to investigate if social networks measures can be used as indicators of training tasks' adjustment level to soccer players' tactical skills. Twenty-four U17 male soccer players (16.89 +/- 0.11 years) participated in this study. The System of Tactical Assessment in Football (FUT-SAT) was used to identify players' tactical level and to organize them into three groups: Higher tactical level (Group 01), Intermediate tactical level (Group 02) and Lower tactical level (Group 03). Then, the players performed three High difficulty Small-Sided and Conditioned Games (HD-SSCG) and three Low difficulty Small-Sided and Conditioned Games (LD-SSCG). Teams' interaction patterns and players' prominence were analysed based on macro (Density - D and Clustering coefficient - CC) and micro networks (Indegree, Outdegree, Total links and Eigenvector) measures. We found that Group 01 presented higher D (p = .004 and ES = 1.189) and CC (p =.004 and ES = .785) at HD-SSCG than Group 03, whereas Group 03 presented higher values of D (p = .003 and ES = 1.200) and CC (p = .037 and ES = 1.180) at LD-SSCG than Group 01. When training tasks difficulty were adjusted to players' tactical level, teams played more collectively and players were more actively engaged in ball circulation. We concluded that macro and micro networks measures can be applied in training context as indicators of training tasks adjustment to players' tactical level.		[Machado, Joao Claudio] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab LEDEHU, Gen Rodrigo Otavio Jordao Ramos Ave 6-200, BR-69080900 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Machado, Joao Claudio; Goes Junior, Alberto; Junior, Joao Bosco; Scaglia, Alcides Jose] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Aquino, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Dept Sports, Res Grp Soccer Sci, Ctr Phys Educ & Sports CEFD, Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Goes Junior, Alberto; Junior, Joao Bosco; Scaglia, Alcides Jose] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Appl Sci FCA, Lab Sport Pedag LEPE, Limeira, SP, Brazil; [Barreira, Daniel] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Sport Sci Dept, Covilha, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CreativeLab, Vila Real, Portugal; [Ibanez, Sergio Jose] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sports Sci, Optimizat Training & Sport Performance Res Grp, Badajoz, Spain; [Machado, Joao Claudio] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab LEDEHU, Gen Rodrigo Otavio Jordao Ramos Ave 6-200, BR-69080900 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599911000001	31	Article; Article		
J	Forsdike, Kirsty; Donaldson, Alex; Seal, Emma								Responding to Violence Against Women in Sport: Challenges Facing Sport Organizations in Victoria, Australia								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			352	367		10.1080/02701367.2020.1844857			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Violence against women is a global epidemic. Such violence occurs in sport, although previous research has focused on child/youth sexual abuse or elite sport. Despite sport being identified as having a role in preventing violence against women, little is known about how sport organizations respond to violence against adult women in community sport. Methods: Twenty-two individual participants from 12 sports organizations based in Victoria, Australia participated in this empirical and applied Concept Mapping study to explore the perceived challenges sports organizations face in responding to violence against women. Concept Mapping is a mixed-method participatory approach and we analyzed the results using a socio-ecological framework. Results: Sports administrators considered training-related challenges as the most important but most difficult to address. Challenges related to organizational capacity/social environment were perceived as easier but less important to address. Conclusions: Key initiatives can be developed to support sport organizations to respond to violence against women in sport, but they will need assistance to prioritize initiatives addressing the most important challenges given a perceived lack of capacity to do so.		[Forsdike, Kirsty; Donaldson, Alex; Seal, Emma] La Trobe Univ, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Forsdike, Kirsty] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Business Sch, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000597686200001	69	Article; Article		
J	Tanaka, Miho J.; LiBrizzi, Christa L.; Rivenburgh, Dennis W.; Jones, Lynne C.								Changes in US girls' participation in high school sports: implications for injury awareness								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	4			450	454		10.1080/00913847.2020.1852861			OCT 2 2021	2021	Context The number of female athletes has grown exponentially since Title IX. However, little data exists on the proportion of women and girls who play each sport. Objective To quantify changes in female sports participation in high school sports from 1973 to 2018. Design Retrospective analysis of data from the National Federation of State High School Associations Participation Survey. Setting US high schools. Participants US high school athletes from 1973 to 2018. Main Outcome Measures Percentage of female participation for each high school sport in 5-year intervals; and changes in rates of participation by player gender and sport at designated intervals. Results From 1973 to 2018, the percentage of high school sports played by girls increased from 24.2% to 42.9% ([95%CI, 18.6,18.8], p < 0.0001). In the 14 sports included in our study, all had an increase in the percentage of female participation between 1973 and 2018. >80% of the increases occurred between 1973 and 1998 for all sports except lacrosse, ice hockey, football, and wrestling. Between 1998 and 2018, the percentage of girls playing each sport increased by less than 5% in all sports, except for ice hockey (11.5%, 95% CI 11.0, 12.0, p < 0.001) and wrestling (7.1%, 95% CI 6.9, 7.1, p < 0.001). Conclusions Girls' participation in high school sports continues to grow not only in numbers but in the types of sports played. Between 1998 and 2018, the greatest increases were noted in ice hockey and wrestling, which had fewer than 1% female participation before 1998. Physicians providing care for female athletes should be aware of these changes and understand the potential injuries associated with these sports.		[Tanaka, Miho J.; LiBrizzi, Christa L.; Rivenburgh, Dennis W.; Jones, Lynne C.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA 02114 USA; [Tanaka, Miho J.; LiBrizzi, Christa L.; Rivenburgh, Dennis W.; Jones, Lynne C.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Baltimore, MD USA; [Tanaka, Miho J.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA 02114 USA								26							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000597385200001	32	Article; Article		
J	Jepsen, Christopher; Jepsen, Lisa; Draisey, Trevor; Mahoney, Josh								Race and National Football League Player Salaries After Controlling for Fantasy Statistics and Arrests								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	4			359	386	1527002520975823	10.1177/1527002520975823			MAY 2021	2021	This paper provides a novel contribution to studies of race and labor-market outcomes by using fantasy football statistics as a measure of performance across offensive skill positions and arrest data as a proxy for negative off-the-field behavior. We investigate whether the determinants of salaries and employment vary between 2005-06 and 2015-16, as the 2011 collective bargaining agreement (CBA) introduced extensive regulation of rookie contracts. As expected, fantasy football statistics are strong predictors of salaries and employment in both time periods, whereas race and arrests are not. Fantasy statistics and experience have diminishing marginal returns for both outcomes.		[Jepsen, Christopher] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Econ, Dublin 4, Ireland; [Jepsen, Christopher] Univ Coll Dublin, Geary Inst, Dublin, Ireland; [Jepsen, Lisa] Univ Northern Iowa, Dept Econ, Cedar Falls, IA USA; [Draisey, Trevor; Mahoney, Josh] Univ Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls, IA USA; [Jepsen, Christopher] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Econ, Dublin 4, Ireland								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000600599400001	30	Article; Article		
J	Albuquerque, Luis Rogerio de; Scheeren, Eduardo Mendonca; Biscaia, Renato Rodrigues; Vagetti, Gislaine Cristina; Oliveira, Valdomiro de								Positive development of young futsal players is influenced by the coach's method and leadership profile								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			500	508	1747954120979474	10.1177/1747954120979474			JUN 2021	2021	The objective of the current study was to investigate the influence of the teaching methods and the leadership profile of the coach in relation to the positive development of young futsal practitioners. In total, 541 Brazilian adolescents (13.86 +/- 1.61 years) and 34 Brazilian coaches (45.58 +/- 5.81 years), from a public sports program in 29 public schools in the city of Curitiba, in the state of Parana, participated in the study. Ordinal logistic regression was used to verify the independent associations between the variables sex, category, trainer methodology, and athletes' perception with the tertiles of the scores of each characteristic of positive development of young people. Odds ratios (CR) were obtained with a 95% confidence interval (95% CI) adopting p < 0.05. Small sized games were positively associated with goal setting (OR = 1.35; 95% CI = 1.05-1.74). Positive associations were also found between athletes' perceptions of the coaches' leadership profile with personal and social skills (instructor, democratic behavior), cognitive skills (instructor, democratic behavior and social support), goal setting (instructor, democratic behavior and social support), and initiative (instructor). A longer time spent in the program demonstrated significant correlations with personal and social skills, goal setting, and initiative. Girls presented significantly higher scores than boys regarding goal setting and initiative. For the program evaluated, the results suggest the coaches choose small sized games, combined with a democratic, affective, and accurate leadership profile in teaching instructions.		[Albuquerque, Luis Rogerio de; Biscaia, Renato Rodrigues; Vagetti, Gislaine Cristina; Oliveira, Valdomiro de] Univ Fed Parana, Programa Posgrad Educ, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Scheeren, Eduardo Mendonca] Pontificia Univ Catolica Parana, Programa Posgrad Tecnol Saude, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Albuquerque, Luis Rogerio de] Dept Educ Fis, Rua Imac Conceicao,1155 Prado Velho, BR-80215901 Curitiba, PR, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599893800001	42	Article; Article		
J	Lago-Penas, C.; Gomez, M. A.; Pollard, R.								The effect of the Video Assistant Referee on referee's decisions in the Spanish <i>LaLiga</i>								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			824	829	1747954120980111	10.1177/1747954120980111			JUN 2021	2021	Video Assistant Referee (VAR) was officially introduced into Association Football (Soccer) regulations in 2018. The aim of this study was to examine how the implementation of this technology has modified the play in elite soccer. The sample consists of all 760 matches played in the Spanish LaLiga during the seasons before and after the implementation of the VAR system. The following variables were recorded for each match and half: Fouls, Goals, Offsides, Penalties, Playing time, Red cards and Yellow cards. Match statistics were retrieved from the website of "Whoscored" (www.whoscored.com). A Mann-Whitney U test and Generalized linear model were used to compare seasons before and after the implementation of VAR. Overall, the findings of the present study showed that the VAR system does not dramatically change the play in elite soccer. Nevertheless: (i) there was a significant decrease in the number of offside after the implementation of VAR; (ii) there was a slight increase in the number of minutes added to the playing time in the first and second half and the full game; and (iii) in most of 70% of all matches, the checks of the match-changing incidents did not lead to review. Moreover, the impact of the VAR system on the game decreases with VAR-only reviews, where the final decision was only based on the communication with the VAR, compared to matches with on-field reviews, where the main referee reviewed the footage on a monitor near the pitch. These findings suggest that to reduce time-wasting and speed up the match, the number of on-field reviews should be reduced.		[Lago-Penas, C.] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Campus Univ S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain; [Gomez, M. A.] Tech Univ Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Gomez, M. A.] James Cook Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Pollard, R.] Calif Polytech State Univ San Luis Obispo, Dept Stat, San Luis Obispo, CA 93407 USA; [Lago-Penas, C.] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Campus Univ S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								38							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599572500001	17	Article; Article		
J	Balliauw, Matteo; Onghena, Evy; Mulkens, Simon								Identifying factors affecting the value of advertisements on football clubs' and players' social media: a discrete choice analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	4			652	676		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2019-0138			OCT 12 2021	2021	Purpose Advertisers frequently use social media for interactive and customer-oriented relationship marketing (RM) purposes. Moreover, sports clubs and players have been using their social media accounts to post content of their sponsors and other advertising companies. Such posts create visibility and have value for these advertising companies, something which has not been empirically quantified in the existing literature. Hence, this paper's purpose is to identify the factors or attributes that influence the value of such advertisement posts. Design/methodology/approach A discrete choice approach is used to empirically estimate the utility that sponsorship managers derive from a post advertising their company or product on football clubs' and players' social media. Findings The results indicate that more followers, better on-field performance and a lower price significantly increase the advertising company's utility. Moreover, the used social media channel has a significant influence too, since Facebook and Instagram are preferred over Twitter, due to the latter's limited degrees of freedom for advertisers. Research limitations/implications Considering additional factors such as the image fit between sponsor and sponsee and presence on the Chinese social media market offers an interesting avenue for future research. Practical implications The empirical estimates allow commercial managers of clubs and players to derive companies' relative willingness to pay (WTP) for changes in characteristics of advertisements on their social media from the calculated utilities. This information can be used in the pricing decision when social media posts are sold or included in sponsorship packages. Originality/value This is the first study applying discrete choice modelling to link social media marketing (SMM) and sports marketing.		[Balliauw, Matteo; Onghena, Evy; Mulkens, Simon] Univ Antwerp, Dept Transport & Reg Econ, Fac Business & Econ, Antwerp, Belgium; [Balliauw, Matteo] Univ Antwerp, Dept Transport & Reg Econ, Fac Business & Econ, Antwerp, Belgium								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000595849500001	91	Article; Article		
J	Cicek, Tevfik; Dhamo, Brunilda; Wolvius, Eppo B.; Wesselink, Paul R.; Kragt, Lea								Effectiveness of the new mandatory mouthguard use and orodental injuries in Dutch field hockey								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	4			455	462		10.1080/00913847.2020.1853487			OCT 2 2021	2021	Objectives Up to 68% of field hockey players have experienced at least one orodental injury in their sport career. Therefore, the Royal Dutch Hockey Association (KNHB) made mouthguard use mandatory for field hockey players during competition and training from August 2015 onwards. This study evaluates the effects of the new regulations on mouthguard use and the occurrence of injuries in Dutch field hockey. Methods A 35-item online questionnaire about mouthguard use and orodental injuries was sent to 13 field hockey clubs in the Netherlands. Absolute numbers and percentages of mouthguard ownership, mouthguard use, number and type of injuries were assessed. The results were related to comparable data before mandatory mouthguard use. Associations of gender and training frequency with the number of injuries were analysed with logistic regression. Results In total, 1169 hockey players were included in the study and almost all owned a mouthguard (females:99.6%, males:93.7%), which significantly increased after implementation (p < 0.001). 90.6% of the respondents wore a mouthguard during matches and 70.1% during training. Of the 1169 players, 68(5.8%) experienced at least one orodental injury after the implementation with a total of 100 injuries. Injuries happened more often during matches (63.2%) than during training (36.8%). Lip cuts account for most of the injuries, the number of broken (p = 0.116) and knocked out teeth (p = 0.026) decreased. Conclusion Although mouthguard use already increased in recent years, the new regulations led to an additional increase and a successful change of attitude towards mouthguard use. Most importantly, the severity of orodental injuries decreased measurable.		[Cicek, Tevfik; Dhamo, Brunilda; Wolvius, Eppo B.; Kragt, Lea] Erasmus Univ, Med Ctr, Special Dent Care & Orthodont, Dept Oral & Maxillofacial Surg, NL-3015 GD Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Dhamo, Brunilda; Wolvius, Eppo B.; Kragt, Lea] Erasmus Univ, Med Ctr, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Wesselink, Paul R.] Univ Amsterdam, Acad Ctr Dent Amsterdam ACTA, Dept Cariol Endodontol & Pedodontol, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Wesselink, Paul R.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kragt, Lea] Erasmus Univ, Med Ctr, Special Dent Care & Orthodont, Dept Oral & Maxillofacial Surg, NL-3015 GD Rotterdam, Netherlands								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000596647300001	19	Article; Article		
J	Al-Khair, Mai Ahmed Abo; Mowafy, Mohamed Ezz Eldin; Hussein, Mervat Ismail; Elsergany, Mervat Abd Al Sattar; Khodair, Sameh Ahmed; El Khouly, Radwa Mostafa								Focused, radial and combined shock wave therapy in treatment of calcific shoulder tendinopathy								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	4			480	487		10.1080/00913847.2020.1856633			OCT 2 2021	2021	Objective: The aim of this work is to compare the clinical, functional, and ultrasonographic outcomes of focused, radial, and combined extracorporeal shock-wave therapy (ESWT) in the treatment of calcific shoulder tendinopathy. Methods: we enrolled 45 patients with calcific shoulder tendinopathy, their ages ranged from 30 to 68 (50.93 +/- 9.44) years, classified according to the line of treatment into three groups, all received four sessions of ESWT 1 week apart. Group I: 15 patients received focused shock waves (F-SW) 1500 shocks. Group II: 15 patients received radial shock waves (R-SW) 2000 shocks. Group III: 15 patients received combined focused and radial shock waves (C-SW). All patients were evaluated by musculoskeletal ultrasound (MSK US) before treatment, at 1 week and at 3 months after the last session. Results: In the three studied groups, there was a significant improvement in shoulder pain, active range of motion (ROM), and shoulder function by shoulder disability questionnaire (SDQ) at 1 week after the end of treatment and after 3 months follow up. Moreover, there was a significant sonographic reduction in calcification size in the three groups. At the end of the study, the best improvement as regards a decrease of calcification size was obtained in group III when compared with group I and group II. Conclusion: These results demonstrated clinical, functional, and sonographic improvement in all groups. The best therapy in calcific shoulder tendinopathy appears to be combined focused and radial ESWT compared to interventions alone. Level 1 Evidence Randomized control study.		[Al-Khair, Mai Ahmed Abo; Mowafy, Mohamed Ezz Eldin; Hussein, Mervat Ismail; Elsergany, Mervat Abd Al Sattar; El Khouly, Radwa Mostafa] Tanta Univ, Fac Med, Phys Med Rheumatol & Rehabil, Tanta, Egypt; [Khodair, Sameh Ahmed] Tanta Univ, Fac Med, Radiodiag & Med Imaging, Tanta, Egypt; [El Khouly, Radwa Mostafa] Tanta Univ, Phys Med Rheumatol & Rehabil, Tanta, Egypt								23							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000596749600001	29	Article; Article		
J	Steinl, Gabrielle K.; Padaki, Ajay S.; Irvine, James N.; Popkin, Charles A.; Ahmad, Christopher S.; Lynch, T. Sean								The prevalence of high school multi-sport participation in elite national football league athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	4			476	479		10.1080/00913847.2020.1856632			OCT 2 2021	2021	Objectives: Early youth specialization is increasingly being researched and identified as a risk factor for overuse injuries and burnout. This study aimed to characterize high school sport specialization in top National Football League (NFL) athletes and determine whether associations exist between single-sport specialization and future injury risk, performance, and longevity. Methods: For NFL first-round draft picks from 2008-2017, data on the number of games played in the NFL, overuse injuries causing athletes to miss one or more regular season games, Pro Bowl selections, and current status in the NFL were collected using publicly available information. Results: A total of 318 athletes were analyzed. Multi-sport athletes were highly prevalent (88%, n = 280), while only 12% (n = 38) of athletes were classified as single-sport. No difference between multi-sport and single-sport athletes was found regarding games missed to upper (p = 0.93) or lower extremity injuries (p = 0.49), total games played (p = 0.57), or NFL longevity (p = 0.97). There was no significant difference in the proportions of athletes reaching at least 1 Pro Bowl. Conclusion: The majority of NFL first-round draft picks were multi-sport athletes in high school. Single-sport football participation in high school does not appear to aid athletes in reaching or succeeding in the NFL.		[Steinl, Gabrielle K.] Columbia Univ, Vagelos Coll Phys & Surg, New York, NY USA; [Padaki, Ajay S.; Irvine, James N.; Popkin, Charles A.; Ahmad, Christopher S.; Lynch, T. Sean] Columbia Univ, Irving Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY 10032 USA; [Lynch, T. Sean] Columbia Univ, Irving Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY 10032 USA								11							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000596346000001	28	Article; Article		
J	Best, Matthew J.; Harris, Andrew B.; Mohler, Jessica M.; Wilckens, John H.								Associations between preoperative depression and opioid use after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction and concomitant procedures								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	4			445	449		10.1080/00913847.2020.1851158			OCT 2 2021	2021	Objectives: To determine rates of perioperative opioid use and characterize associations between preoperative depression and chronic and cumulative opioid consumption after ACL reconstruction. Methods: Using insurance claims data, we identified 48,657 adults who underwent ACL reconstruction from 2010 to 2015, had prescription drug insurance, and had >= 1 year of continuous insurance enrollment postoperatively. Chronic opioid use was defined as filling >= 120 days' supply from 3 to 12 months postoperatively. Logistic and linear regression, controlled for age, sex, and Charlson Comorbidity Index value, were used to determine associations of preoperative depression with binary and continuous outcomes, respectively. Results: Preoperatively, 2,237 patients (4.6%) had depression and 2,387 (4.9%) were taking opioids; patients with depression had 6.5 times the odds (95% confidence interval [CI]: 5.8, 7.3) of taking opioids than patients without depression. Postoperatively, 25% of the patients filled >= 1 opioid prescription; mean duration of use was 13 +/- 11 days, and 362 patients (0.7%) had chronic use. Patients with preoperative depression were less likely than patients without depression to fill an opioid prescription postoperatively (OR 0.2, 95% CI: 0.2, 0.2). Of patients who filled opioid prescriptions postoperatively, those with preoperative depression were more likely to refill that prescription at least once (OR 2.0, 95% CI: 1.9, 2.2) but did not have greater odds of chronic use (OR 0.9, 95% CI: 0.5, 1.5). Preoperative depression was not associated with greater cumulative opioid consumption from 3 to 12 months postoperatively (beta = -40, 95% CI: -226, 146). Conclusion: Although patients with preoperative depression were more likely to take opioids preoperatively and to obtain >= 1 opioid refill postoperatively, they did not have greater odds of chronic postoperative opioid use or greater cumulative opioid consumption after ACL reconstruction.		[Best, Matthew J.; Harris, Andrew B.; Wilckens, John H.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Baltimore, MD USA; [Mohler, Jessica M.] US Naval Acad, Sport Psychol Serv, Midshipmen Dev Ctr, Annapolis, MD 21402 USA; [Best, Matthew J.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000596340700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Wilczynska, Dominika; Lysak-Radomska, Anna; Podczarska-Glowacka, Magdalena; Skrobot, Wojciech; Krasowska, Katarzyna; Perzanowska, Ewelina; Dancewicz, Tomasz; Lipinska, Patrycja; Hopkins, Will G.								The Effectiveness of Psychological Workshops for Coaches on Well-Being and Psychomotor Performance of Children Practicing Football and Gymnastics								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			586	593		10.52082/jssm.2021.586			DEC 2020	2020	Coach workshops based on seven principles (inspiration, explanation, expectation, support, reward, appreciation, growth and winning) enhance the sport experience of adult athletes. Therefore, we have investigated the effects of such workshops with coaches of child athletes. Study participants were coaches of 57 9-to 12-year old girls (practicing gymnastics) and boys (practicing football). Three coaches of 28 children attended three workshops over 12 weeks, while a control group of 5 coaches of 29 children attended no workshops. Measures of well-being and psychomotor performance were taken on the children before and after the intervention; differences in mean changes between intervention and control groups were adjusted for baseline, standardized, and assessed with a conservative magnitude-based decision method. There were clear substantial effects of the workshop on motivation averaged across several dimensions (girls, large, most likely beneficial), on a decision test (boys, small-moderate, very likely beneficial), on state anxiety self reflection (girls, moderate, likely harmful), and on reaction time (boys, small, possibly harmful). The beneficial effects of the workshop in this pilot study are encouraging, but the unclear and potentially harmful effects and the roles of presenter-and coach specific effects need to be investigated further with a representative sample of coaches and more children before the workshop is recommended for implementation.		[Wilczynska, Dominika] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Lysak-Radomska, Anna; Podczarska-Glowacka, Magdalena; Skrobot, Wojciech; Krasowska, Katarzyna; Perzanowska, Ewelina] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Rehabil & Kinesiol, Gdansk, Poland; [Dancewicz, Tomasz] WSB Univ, Fac Finance & Management, Gdansk, Poland; [Lipinska, Patrycja] Kazimierz Wielki Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Hopkins, Will G.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Wilczynska, Dominika] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704889800001	54	Article; Article		
J	Tilga, Henri; Kalajas-Tilga, Hanna; Hein, Vello; Koka, Andre								Web-Based and Face-To-Face Autonomy-Supportive Intervention for Physical Education Teachers and Students' Experiences								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				20	4			672	683		10.52082/jssm.2021.672			DEC 2020	2020	The most of the previous autonomy-supportive interventions con-ducted have been partially effective and used only web-based or face-to-face approach. In the current study, a combined web-based and face-to-face intervention for physical education (PE) teachers was tested to examine whether it would lead to signifi-cant changes in students' self-reports of autonomy-supportive and controlling behaviours, psychological need satisfaction and frus-tration, and intrinsic motivation. Participants were 57 PE teachers (M-age = 45.70, SD = 12.79) and their 858 middle-school students (M-age = 13.22, SD = 0.75). A randomized controlled design was adopted in which PE teachers and their students were assigned to the combined face-to-face and web-based, face-to-face alone, web-based alone or control group. Face-to-face intervention was provided to PE teachers within one day in an 8-hour workshop and web-based intervention was provided to PE teachers for a pe-riod of four weeks. The combined face-to-face and web-based in-tervention group was the only study group that demonstrated sta-tistically significant changes in all the study variables (i.e., signif-icant increase in cognitive, organisational, and procedural auton-omy-supportive behaviour, in psychological need satisfaction for autonomy, competence and relatedness, and in intrinsic motiva-tion, whereas significant decrease in intimidation, controlling use of grades, and negative conditional regard, and in psychological need frustration for autonomy, competence, and relatedness) compared to the control group at a one-month follow-up. There were no significant differences in any of the study variable, ex-cept organisational autonomy support and intimidation, between the web-based intervention group and face-to-face intervention group. Both web-based and face-to-face study group students re-ported significant gains in most of the study variables compared to the control group students at a one-month follow-up. The cur-rent findings suggest that future autonomy-supportive interven-tions for PE teachers should aim to use combined interventions of face-to-face and web-based approach to gain the greatest inter-vention effects.		[Tilga, Henri; Kalajas-Tilga, Hanna; Hein, Vello; Koka, Andre] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Inst Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, Tartu, Estonia; [Tilga, Henri] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Inst Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, Tartu, Estonia								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000704889800003	57	Article; Article		
J	Scantlebury, Sean; Till, Kevin; Sawczuk, Thomas; Phibbs, Padraic; Jones, Ben								Navigating the Complex Pathway of Youth Athletic Development: Challenges and Solutions to Managing the Training Load of Youth Team Sport Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	6			100	108		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000564			DEC 2020	2020	The development of a youth team sport athlete is a complex process. This article outlines challenges that may restrict the optimal balance between training and recovery and provide solutions to help practitioners overcome these challenges. To facilitate positive youth athletic development, training aims must be aligned between stakeholders to synchronize periods of intensified training and recovery. Within- and between-athlete variations in weekly training load must be managed and practitioners should attempt to ensure the intended load of training equals the load perceived by the athlete. Furthermore, practitioners should be cognizant of the athletes' nonsport-related stressors to enable both academic and sporting pursuits. Although each of these challenges adds intricacy, they may be overcome through collaboration, monitoring, and, if necessary, the modification of the athletes' training load.		[Scantlebury, Sean; Till, Kevin; Sawczuk, Thomas; Phibbs, Padraic; Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Scantlebury, Sean; Sawczuk, Thomas] Queen Ethelburgas Collegiate, York, N Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin; Jones, Ben] Yorkshire Carnegie Rugby Union Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin; Jones, Ben] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Scantlebury, Sean; Sawczuk, Thomas; Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Jones, Ben] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben] Sports Sci Inst South Africa, Cape Town, South Africa; [Phibbs, Padraic] Leinster Rugby, Dublin, Ireland; [Scantlebury, Sean] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Scantlebury, Sean] Queen Ethelburgas Collegiate, York, N Yorkshire, England; [Scantlebury, Sean] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000618930700010	63	Article; Article		
J	Faigenbaum, Avery D.; Rebullido, Tamara Rial; Chulvi-Medrano, Ivan								Youth Physical Activity Is All About the "F-Words"								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	6			2	6		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000530			DEC 2020	2020	The "F-words" of youth physical activity (family, facilitators, facilities, force, fitness, function, fun, feeling, and future) illustrate the complex web of factors that influence participation in active play, exercise, and sport activities in children and adolescents. The "F-words" can be used to expand our conceptual thinking about youth physical activity and inform research and practice in the field of pediatric exercise science.		[Faigenbaum, Avery D.] Coll New Jersey, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Ewing, NJ 08618 USA; [Rebullido, Tamara Rial] Tamara Rial Exercise & Womens Hlth, Newtown, PA USA; [Chulvi-Medrano, Ivan] Univ Alicante, Dept Gen & Specif Didact, Alicante, Spain; [Faigenbaum, Avery D.] Coll New Jersey, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Ewing, NJ 08618 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000618930700002	41	Article; Article		
J	Read, Paul J.; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Seven Pillars of Prevention: Effective Strategies for Strength and Conditioning Coaches to Reduce Injury Risk and Improve Performance in Young Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	6			120	128		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000588			DEC 2020	2020	Strength and conditioning provision for young athletes offers unique challenges and opportunities for coaches. Periods of rapid and nonuniform growth in skeletal structures can result in temporary reductions in athletic performance and heightened injury risk. Despite the increased risk of injury in young athletes, surprisingly, there is often a lack of adherence to injury prevention programs, despite a compelling body of evidence showing their effectiveness. Thus, clearer guidelines on how to best implement targeted interventions that maximize performance adaptations and minimize logistical constraints are likely beneficial for increasing their successful adoption in the field. In this article, we describe 7 pillars that provide practitioners with evidence-based and practically viable strategies that can be used effectively to reduce injury risk and increase performance in young athletes.		[Read, Paul J.] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Read, Paul J.] Univ Loucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Read, Paul J.] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Read, Paul J.] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Read, Paul J.] Univ Loucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Read, Paul J.] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000618930700012	51	Article; Article		
J	Hannon, Marcus P.; Close, Graeme L.; Morton, James P.								Energy and Macronutrient Considerations for Young Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	6			109	119		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000570			DEC 2020	2020	Young athletes undergo many anatomical and physiological changes during the first 2 decades of life as a result of growth and maturation. Such changes influence a young athlete's nutritional requirements and it is therefore inappropriate to apply nutritional guidelines for adult athletes to this population. Nutritional recommendations for young athletes should not only focus on sporting performance but should also meet the requirements to ensure optimal growth, maturation, and physical development. This review article provides an overview of the nutritional recommendations for young athletes based on the best available literature from a range of sports.		[Hannon, Marcus P.; Close, Graeme L.; Morton, James P.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci RISES, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Hannon, Marcus P.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci RISES, Liverpool, Merseyside, England								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000618930700011	61	Article; Article		
J	Myburgh, Gillian K.; Pfeifer, Craig E.; Hecht, Christopher J.								Warm-ups for Youth Athletes: Making the First 15-Minutes Count								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	6			45	53		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000549			DEC 2020	2020	Warm-up procedures have been found to have a significant influence on fitness performance in youth athletes. As such, warming up before exercise and competition is encouraged and is a widely accepted practice with children and adolescents. Differences in structure, type, duration, intensity, and content of warm-up protocols have led to considerable variation in warm-up procedures. As a result, there is a lack of consensus on the ideal method for preparing youth athletes for exercise and sport. This article, therefore, aims to review current warm-up classifications and considerations of youth athletes, while providing a template of appropriate exercises that can be used safely and effectively in individuals of varying capabilities.		[Myburgh, Gillian K.] Lawn Tennis Assoc, Sport Sci & Med Dept, Natl Tennis Ctr, London, England; [Pfeifer, Craig E.] Univ Gloucestershire, Appl Sport & Exercise Sci, Oxstalls Campus, Gloucester, England; [Hecht, Christopher J.] Kiowa Sch Dist, Kiowa, CO USA; [Myburgh, Gillian K.] Lawn Tennis Assoc, Sport Sci & Med Dept, Natl Tennis Ctr, London, England								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000618930700006	28	Article; Article		
J	Cahill, Micheal J.; Cronin, John B.; Oliver, Jon L.; Clark, Kenneth P.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Cross, Matt R.								Resisted Sled Training for Young Athletes: When to Push and Pull								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	6			91	99		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000555			DEC 2020	2020	There is a renewed interest is resisted sled training (RST); however, little uniformity exists regarding the integration of best practices in RST for young athletes. This article reviews the prescription of load, methods of RST, and the integration of sprint-specific periodized training blocks during the preparatory phase to elicit the greatest gains within different phases of sprint performance such as early acceleration, late acceleration, and the transition to maximum velocity. A targeted, long-term approach to RST may enable more effective development of speed in young athletes.		[Cahill, Micheal J.; Cronin, John B.] Athlete Training & Hlth, Allen, TX 75013 USA; [Cahill, Micheal J.; Cronin, John B.; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Cross, Matt R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Cardiff, Wales; [Clark, Kenneth P.] West Chester Univ, W Chester, PA USA; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Cross, Matt R.] Univ Savoie Mt Blanc, Chambery, France; [Cahill, Micheal J.] Athlete Training & Hlth, Allen, TX 75013 USA; [Cahill, Micheal J.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000618930700009	31	Article; Article		
J	Keerasomboon, Taspol; Mineta, Shinshiro; Hirose, Norikazu								Influence of Altered Knee Angle and Muscular Contraction Type on Electromyographic Activity of Hamstring Muscles during 45° Hip Extension Exercise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			630	636					DEC 2020	2020	In this study, we investigated differences in electromyographic activity in the biceps femoris long head (BF1), semitendinosus, and semimembranosus muscles during 45 degrees hip extension with different knee angles during eccentric, concentric, and isometric hip 0 degrees, and isometric hip 45 degrees conditions with non-external resistance and 5-kg load. Twenty-two male volunteers performed 45 degrees hip extension with knee flexion angles of 0 degrees, 45 degrees and 90 degrees with non-external resistance and 5-kg load eccentric, concentric, isometric hip 0 degrees, and isometric hip 45 degrees conditions. The electromyographic data obtained during each condition were normalized with the values collected during maximal voluntary isometric contraction of each muscle. A multivariate analysis of variance with repeated measures using syntax was used to compare the normalized electromyography of each muscle across different knee joint angles in each weight condition. Electromyographic activities of the BF1, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus at 45 degrees and 90 degrees knee flexion angles were significantly greater than at 0 degrees in the eccentric, concentric, isometric hip 0 degrees, and in isometric hip 45 degrees conditions with both non-external resistance and 5-kg load (p<0.05), except for that of the BF1 and semitendinosus in isometric hip 45 degrees with 5-kg load. The electromyographic activity of the BF1 was significantly higher than that of the semimembranosus at 90 degrees knee flexion in all conditions (p < 0.05), except during eccentric with non-external resistance. There was no significant difference in electromyographic activity in the hamstring muscles among different knee angles and muscular contraction conditions. This study showed that 45 degrees hip extension with 45 degrees and 90 degrees knee flexion might be better in terms of the recruiting hamstring activity compared to 0 degrees knee flexion, regardless of the training intensity. We recommend 45 degrees hip extension exercises with knee flexion angles of 45 degrees and 90 degrees to activate the BF1, in preventing hamstring strain.		[Keerasomboon, Taspol] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Mineta, Shinshiro] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Osaka, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Higashifushimi STEP 22,3-4-1, Nishitokyo, Tokyo 2020021, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Higashifushimi STEP 22,3-4-1, Nishitokyo, Tokyo 2020021, Japan								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400001	18	Article; Article		
J	Gavin, Kevin W.; Lane, Aoife; Dowd, Kieran P.								The Contribution of Gaelic Football Participation to Youth Physical Activity Levels								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			652	661					DEC 2020	2020	The primary aim of this study was to describe the contribution of Gaelic football participation to youth physical activity (PA) levels. Secondary aims were to objectively quantify the overall daily PA levels of participants across sex and age, to determine the PA levels achieved during Gaelic football practice sessions and games, and to compare PA levels on days with organized sporting activity (sports days) and days without organized sporting activity (non-sports days). One hundred and sixty adolescents (87 male, 73 female; mean age 14.5 +/- 1.8 yrs.) wore an activPAL accelerometer to determine total sitting/lying time, standing time, light intensity physical activity (LIPA), moderate physical activity (MPA), vigorous physical activity (VPA) and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) during a seven day measurement period, including during Gaelic football participation. Participants achieved an average of 58.5 +/- 23.6 minutes of MVPA daily. Males accumulated significantly more MVPA daily than females (Males=70.8 +/- 22.1 min; Females = 45.5 +/- 16.5 min; p < 0.001; eta(2)(p) = 0.401) and time spent in MVPA daily significantly decreased with age (p < 0.001; eta(2)(p) = 0.299). Participants accumulated significantly more MVPA during games (36.0 +/- 9.2 min/hr (60%)) than practice sessions (29.0 +/- 8.3 min/hr (48%); p < 0.001; d = 0.80). On sports days, participants accumulated significantly more time in MVPA (Sports Days = 70.1 +/- 36.0 min; Non-Sports Days = 54.2 +/- 34.0; p < 0.001; d = 0.45) and were 2.16 times more likely to achieve 60 minutes of MVPA (OR = 2.16; 95% CI = 1.60-2.92) than on non-sports days. The results reveal that Gaelic football provides an opportunity for adolescents to accumulate PA, however, participants currently spent more than 50% of their practice time inactive or in low intensity activities. An opportunity remains to enhance the contribution of Gaelic football to overall daily PA levels, by replacing time spent inactive with time in MVPA.		[Gavin, Kevin W.; Lane, Aoife; Dowd, Kieran P.] Athlone Inst Technol, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Athlone N37H D68, Co Westmeath, Ireland; [Gavin, Kevin W.] Athlone Inst Technol, Athlone, Co Westmeath, Ireland								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400004	62	Article; Article		
J	Kaneda, Hiroaki; Takahira, Naonobu; Tsuda, Kouji; Tozaki, Kiyoshi; Kudo, Sho; Takahashi, Yoshiki; Sasaki, Shuichi; Kenmoku, Tomonori								Effects of Tissue Flossing and Dynamic Stretching on Hamstring Muscles Function								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			681	689					DEC 2020	2020	Tissue flossing aims to improve range of motion (ROM), reduce pain, and enhance injury prevention. However, evidence is lacking regarding its effects. Therefore, this study examined the effects of flossing on hamstring muscles function in comparison to dynamic stretching (DS). Seventeen healthy young men ([mean SD] age, 23.2 +/- 1.1 years; height, 1.72 +/- 0.08 m; body mass, 63.5 +/- 9.3 kg) volunteered as subjects in this randomized crossover trial. The subjects received flossing, DS, and control interventions in random order at least 1 week apart to eliminate the influence of the previous intervention. Flossing involved passive twisting and active movement using a floss band (Sanctband COMPRE Floss Blueberry, Sanct Japan Co., Ltd.). DS was performed for 4 minutes in 30-second sets consisting of 15 repetitions of 2 seconds stretching. The following were measured before and after each intervention: straight leg raise (SLR) test, passive knee extension (KE) test, passive torque, passive stiffness, fascicle length in the biceps femoris long head as an indication of hamstring muscles flexibility, and maximal isometric knee flexion contraction, maximal eccentric knee extension/flexion contraction, rate of force development, and muscle activity. Flossing yielded significant improvements in the SLR test (mean difference in post-intervention changes between interventions: 5.4 degrees, percentage change from pre- to post-value: 13.4%, p = 0.004), passive KE test (6.2 degrees, 4.5%, p < 0.001), passive torque at end-ROM (3.8 Nm, 4.7%, p = 0.03), and maximal eccentric knee flexion contraction (14.9% body weight, 8.2%, p = 0.03) than control. Moreover, flossing yielded 2.1-fold greater improvements in the passive KE test (3.8 degrees, 4.5%, p = 0.03) and yielded significant improvements in the maximal eccentric knee extension contraction (29.9% body weight, 13.8%, p = 0.02) than DS. Therefore, flossing on hamstring muscles is more beneficial than DS with respect to increasing ROM and muscle exertion.		[Kaneda, Hiroaki; Takahira, Naonobu; Tsuda, Kouji; Tozaki, Kiyoshi; Kudo, Sho; Takahashi, Yoshiki; Sasaki, Shuichi] Kitasato Univ, Grad Sch Med Sci, Sensory & Motor Control, Kitasato 1-15-1, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 2520374, Japan; [Takahira, Naonobu] Kitasato Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil, Phys Therapy Course, Kitasato 1-15-1, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 2520374, Japan; [Sasaki, Shuichi] Kitasato Univ, Kitasato Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Kitasato 1-15-1, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 2520374, Japan; [Kenmoku, Tomonori] Kitasato Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Kitasato 1-15-1, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 2520374, Japan; [Takahira, Naonobu] Kitasato Univ, Grad Sch Med Sci, Sensory & Motor Control, Kitasato 1-15-1, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 2520374, Japan								46							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400007	45	Article; Article		
J	Zhu, Yuxin; Sun, Fenghua; Li, Chunxiao; Chow, Daniel H. K.; Wang, Kangle								Acute Effect of Brief Mindfulness-Based Intervention Coupled with Fluid Intake on Athletes' Cognitive Function								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			753	760					DEC 2020	2020	During the half time of intermittent team sports, substantial physiological changes relating to acid-base balance and glycemic response affect the second-half performance. Refuel and rehydrate strategy is therefore necessary to be investigated. This field experiment assessed the acute effect of a brief mindfulness-based intervention (MBI) coupled with fluid intake on players' cognitive function in a simulated soccer game. In a single-blinded, randomized, cross-over experiment, 14 male players received three treatments [Control: noncarbohydrate solution + traveling introduction audio; CHO: Carbohydrate (CHO)-electrolyte solution + traveling introduction audio; and CHO-M: CHO-electrolyte solution + MBI] during a simulated half-time break of a soccer game. Participants' mindfulness level, blood glucose and lactate, rating of perceived exertion, and cognitive function performance assessed by the Stroop effect task (ST), Corsi block-tapping test (CBT), and rapid visual information processing task (RVIPT) were immediately measured before, during, and after the trial. Repeated measure ANOVA was used for statistical analysis. The results revealed that: (1) in ST, the CHO_M group performed better than the Control group and marginally better than the CHO group; (2) in CBT, both the Control group and CHO-M group responded faster in the posttest than in the pretest; however, the performance of the CHO group remained the same; (3) the CHO group spent less time on missing numbers in post RVIPT compared with the other two groups. In conclusion, findings of this study provided a preliminary evidence of the positive effect of MBI coupled with CHO intake on athletes' cognitive function, with both positive and negative effect of CHO ingestion.		[Zhu, Yuxin; Sun, Fenghua; Chow, Daniel H. K.; Wang, Kangle] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, 10 Lo Ping Rd, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Li, Chunxiao] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Sun, Fenghua] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, 10 Lo Ping Rd, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400016	39	Article; Article		
J	Kozinc, Ziga; Sarabon, Nejc								Inter-Limb Asymmetries in Volleyball Players: Differences between Testing Approaches and Association with Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			745	752					DEC 2020	2020	In this study, we investigated the prevalence of inter-limb asymmetries in young volleyball players and assessed the differences in the outcomes of different strength and power tests. The study sample comprised of 54 young volleyball players (25 males). Both limbs were tested for single-leg jumping for distance (forward and lateral single jump and triple jump forward for distance), single-leg vertical counter-movement jump (CMJ), change-of-direction (CoD) ability with 90 and 180 degrees turn tests, unilateral maximal isometric knee extension torque, rate of torque development (RTD), and rate of torque development scaling factor (RTD-SF). For all tests, inter-limb asymmetry indexes were calculated. The average magnitude of the inter-limb asymmetries varied substantially (2.0-31.2 %) among different outcome measures. The agreement in the categorization of participants into "symmetrical" or "asymmetrical", based on the >10% threshold, was very poor in general, with the exception of the outcomes within the same task (e.g. CMJ power and CMJ force). Similar findings were found for the agreement on the direction of the asymmetries. Inter-limb asymmetry in RTD-SF was weakly associated with the CoD performance (r = 0.30; p = 0.031). Multiple strength and power testing protocols are needed to obtain a comprehensive overview of athlete's imbalances. The commonly accepted 10 % threshold for classification of individuals as asymmetrical should be reconsidered and reinvestigated. RFD-SF is suggested as a novel outcome measure that can provide additional information to researchers and coaches.		[Kozinc, Ziga; Sarabon, Nejc] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Polje 42, SI-6310 Izola, Slovenia; [Kozinc, Ziga] Univ Primorska, Andrej Marusic Inst, Koper, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] InnoRenew CoE, Human Hlth Dept Izola, Izola, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] S2P Sci Practice Ltd, Lab Motor Control & Motor Behav, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Polje 42, SI-6310 Izola, Slovenia								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400015	34	Article; Article		
J	di Cagno, Alessandra; Iuliano, Enzo; Buonsenso, Andrea; Giombini, Arrigo; Di Martino, Giulia; Parisi, Attilio; Calcagno, Giuseppe; Fiorilli, Giovanni								Effects of Accentuated Eccentric Training vs Plyometric Training on Performance of Young Elite Fencers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			703	713					DEC 2020	2020	The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of 6-weeks accentuated eccentric training, using a rotary inertial device, on range of motion, assessed with Inter Malleolar Distance test, anthropometry, lower limb explosive and reactive strength, assessed with Squat Jump, Countermovement Jump and 7-Repeated Hop tests, in young elite fencers. Moreover, the effects on hamstring eccentric strength and two technical fencing movements, lunge and advance-advance lunge, were evaluated with motion analysis. The second aim was to evaluate the duration of the accentuated eccentric training residual effects, 6 weeks after the end of the training Fifty-four male fencers were randomly assigned either to the Inertial Group (IG; n = 26; aged 17.3 +/- 1.9 years) such as experimental group, or to the Plyometric Group (PG; n = 28; aged 17.6 +/- 2.7 years) such as control group. IG carried out four exercises using the rotary inertial device attached to their waist by a rope. PG carried out several plyometric exercises at the same time in which the IG performed the accentuated eccentric training MANOVA showed significant improvements in the vertical jumps height post training, with no differences between IG and PG. Significant improvements for technical movements, lunge distance (p = 0.006) and advance-advance lunge distance (p = 0.00005), were found within-group and between-groups (p = 0.00001), with higher improvements in IG than in PG. The univariate analysis showed a significant improvement in lower limb range of motion with higher increase in IG than in PG. The main findings were the significant improvement in lunge and advance-advance lunge distance, maintaining with the same execution time. These results suggested that it is important to apply accentuated eccentric load on specific sport movements.		[di Cagno, Alessandra; Giombini, Arrigo; Di Martino, Giulia; Parisi, Attilio] Univ Rome Foro Italico, Dept Motor Human & Hlth Sci, Rome, Italy; [Iuliano, Enzo] Univ eCamPus, Dept Psychol, Novedrate, Como, Italy; [Buonsenso, Andrea; Calcagno, Giuseppe; Fiorilli, Giovanni] Univ Molise, Dept Med & Hlth Sci, Campobasso, Italy; [di Cagno, Alessandra] Univ Rome Foro Italico, Dept Motor Human & Hlth Sci, Rome, Italy								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400010	46	Article; Article		
J	Ozaki, Hayao; Sawada, Shuji; Osawa, Takuya; Natsume, Toshiharu; Yoshihara, Toshinori; Deng, Pengyu; Machida, Shuichi; Naito, Hisashi								Muscle Size and Strength of the Lower Body in Supervised and in Combined Supervised and Unsupervised Low-Load Resistance Training								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			721	726					DEC 2020	2020	This study aimed to clarify whether low-load resistance training at a low frequency (twice a week) using body weight and elastic band improves muscle size, muscle strength, and physical functions and to compare the training effects between supervised training and a combination of supervised and unsupervised training in untrained older adults. Fifty-one older adults (ages: 57-75 years) selected to either a supervised (S) training group (n = 34) or a combined supervised and unsupervised (SU) group (n = 17). Both groups performed low-load resistance training composed of nine exercises for 12 weeks. The S group participated in supervised exercise sessions twice a week, and the SU group performed a supervised exercise session once a week and an unsupervised exercise session at home also once a week. For muscle thicknesses in the anterior aspects of the forearm, upper aim, and thigh and the posterior aspect of the thigh, group x time interactions were observed (p < 0.05). The hypertrophic effects were higher in the S group. Isometric knee extension strength and physical functions increased similarly in both groups. Low-load resistance training using body weight and elastic band twice a week for 12 weeks induces muscle hypertrophy and increases muscle strength and physical functions in older adults. Although the muscle hypertrophic effects are greater in the S group than in the SU group, the other effects were similar between the groups.		[Ozaki, Hayao] Tokai Gakuen Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Miyoshi, Aichi, Japan; [Ozaki, Hayao; Yoshihara, Toshinori; Deng, Pengyu; Machida, Shuichi; Naito, Hisashi] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-1 Hirakagakuendai, Inzai, Chiba 2701695, Japan; [Sawada, Shuji; Natsume, Toshiharu; Machida, Shuichi; Naito, Hisashi] Juntendo Univ, COI Project Ctr, Bunkyo Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Osawa, Takuya] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Setagaya Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Machida, Shuichi] Juntendo Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-1 Hirakagakuendai, Inzai, Chiba 2701695, Japan								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400012	26	Article; Article		
J	Xia, Rui; Dai, Boyi; Fu, Weijie; Gu, Nan; Wu, Yigang								Kinematic Comparisons of the Shakehand and Penhold Grips in Table Tennis Forehand and Backhand Strokes when Returning Topspin and Backspin Balls								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			637	644					DEC 2020	2020	Identifying the factors associated with table tennis performance may provide training information for competitive athletes and guide the general population for active participation. The purpose was to compare the joint, racket, and ball kinematics between the shakehand and penhold grips in table tennis forehand and backhand strokes when returning topspin and backspin balls in advanced male players. Nine penhold-grip players and 18 matched shakehand-grip players performed forehand and backhand strokes when returning topspin and backspin balls using their habitual grip styles, while the kinematics of the trunk, upper extremities, racket, and ball were collected. Racket angles were calculated as the relative motion of the racket to the forearm. For the forehand strokes, no significant differences were observed for ball or racket velocities between the two grips. The shakehand grip tended to demonstrate greater shoulder external rotation angles compared to the penhold grip. The shakehand grip resulted in racket flexion angular velocity compared to racket extension velocity for the penhold grip. For the backhand strokes, greater ball and racket velocities were observed for the shakehand grip. The shakehand grip generally demonstrated decreased final trunk left rotation angles, increased trunk right rotation angular velocities, decreased final shoulder abduction angles, increased shoulder adduction angular velocities, and increased forearm supination angular velocities. The two grips demonstrated similar peak racket and ball velocities but different shoulder rotation range of motion and racket motion in forehand strokes. The penhold grips resulted in decreased peak racket and ball velocities in backhand strokes, likely due to its decreased shoulder, elbow, and forearm motion and less aligned longitudinal axes between the racket and forearm. These findings may help understand the dominance of the shakehand grip over the penhold grip in elite athletes and provide information for grip selection, technique improvements, and exercise training.		[Xia, Rui] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ & Training, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Gu, Nan] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Table Tennis Coll, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Wu, Yigang] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Int Educ, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Wu, Yigang] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Int Educ, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400002	14	Article; Article		
J	Tsurubami, Ryo; Oba, Kensuke; Samukawa, Mina; Takizawa, Kazuki; Chiba, Itaru; Yamanaka, Masanori; Tohyama, Harukazu								Warm-Up Intensity and Time Course Effects on Jump Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			714	720					DEC 2020	2020	Jump performance is affected by warm-up intensity and body temperature, but the time course effects have not been thoroughly investigated. The purpose of this study was to investigate time course effects on jump performance after warm-up at different intensities. Nine male athletes (age: 20.9 +/- 1.0 years; height: 1.75 +/- 0.03 m; weight: 66.4 +/- 6.3 kg; mean +/- SD) volunteered for this study. The participants performed three warm-ups at different intensities: 15 min at 80% VO2 max, 15 min at 60% VO2 max, and no warm-up (control). After each warm-up, counter movement jump (CMJ) height, vastus lateralis temperature, heart rate and subjective fatigue level were measured at three intervals: immediately after warm-up, 10 min after, and 20 min after, respectively. Significant main effects and interactions were found for muscle temperature (intensity: p < 0.01, eta(2)(p) = 0.909; time: p < 0.01, eta(2)(p) = 0.898; interaction: p < 0.01, 11 2 p = 0.917). There was a significant increase of muscle temperature from the baseline after warm-up, which lasted for 20 min after warm-up with 80% VO2 max and 60% VO2 max (p < 0.01). Muscle temperature was significantly higher with warm-up at 80% VO2 max than other conditions (P < 0.01). Significant main effects and interactions for CMJ height were found (intensity: p < 0.01, eta(2)(p) = 0.762; time: p < 0.01, eta(2)(p) = 0.810; interaction: p < 0.01, eta(2)(p) = 0.696). Compared with the control conditions, CMJ height after 80% VO2 max and 60% VO2 max warm-ups were significantly higher (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05, respectively). CMJ height at 20 min after warm-up was significantly higher for 80% VO2 max warm-up than for 60% VO2 max warm-up (p < 0.01). However, CMJ height at 10 min after 60% VO2 max warm-up was not significantly different from the baseline (p < 0.05). These results showed that both high and moderate intensity warm-up can maintain an increase in muscle temperature for 20 min. Jump performance after high-intensity warmup was increased for 20 min compared to a moderate intensity warm-up.		[Tsurubami, Ryo] Hakodate City Hall, Hakodate, Hokkaido, Japan; [Oba, Kensuke] Hitsujigaoka Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Samukawa, Mina; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Takizawa, Kazuki] Inst Phys Dev Res, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Chiba, Itaru] Nishioka Daiichi Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Yamanaka, Masanori] Hokkaido Chitose Coll Rehabil Chitose, Fac Hlth Sci, Chitose, Japan; [Samukawa, Mina] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400011	33	Article; Article		
J	Solstad, Tom Erik; Andersen, Vidar; Shaw, Matthew; Hoel, Erlend Mogstad; Vonheim, Andreas; Saeterbakken, Atle Hole								A Comparison of Muscle Activation between Barbell Bench Press and Dumbbell Flyes in Resistance-Trained Males								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			645	651					DEC 2020	2020	The purpose of the study was to compare the muscle activity in the prime movers and antagonist between the barbell bench press (BBP) and the dumbbell flyes (DF) Seventeen resistance-trained men (age 22.9 +/- 1.8 yrs; height 1.80 +/- 0.06 m; body mass 80.0 +/- 8.3 kg), with 4.8 +/- 2.0 years resistance training experience, completed the study. The surface electromyographic activation was measured in four different muscles (pectoralis major, anterior deltoids, triceps brachii, and biceps brachii) during six repetition maximum loads in both exercises. To better understand eventual differences, an in-depth analysis of the fifth repetition was performed, dividing it into six phases (lower, middle, and upper phase of the descending and ascending movement). The results showed a higher muscle activation in the whole movement and the majority of the lifting phases for pectoralis major, deltoids anterior, and triceps brachii for the BBP compared to the DF (8-81 %, p <= 0.05). However, the antagonist biceps brachii showed a higher muscle activation (57-86 %, p <= 0.05) in the DF compared to the BBP. In conclusion, both exercises could be included in training programs, but the BBP should be emphasized because of the higher muscle activation overall. Among specific populations, were tasks based on strength and control in a horizontal shoulder flexion position with extended elbows often occurs, the DF might prove useful.		[Solstad, Tom Erik; Andersen, Vidar; Shaw, Matthew; Hoel, Erlend Mogstad; Vonheim, Andreas; Saeterbakken, Atle Hole] Western Norway Univ, Fac Educ Arts & Sports, Dept Sport Food & Nat Sci, Campus Sogndal, Sogndal, Norway; [Solstad, Tom Erik] Western Norway Univ, Fac Educ Arts & Sports, Dept Sport Food & Nat Sci, Campus Sogndal, Sogndal, Norway								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400003	44	Article; Article		
J	Gene-Morales, Javier; Gene-Sampedro, Andres; Salvador, Rosario; Colado, Juan C.								Adding the Load Just Above Sticking Point Using Elastic Bands Optimizes Squat Performance, Perceived Effort Rate, and Cardiovascular Responses								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	4			735	744					DEC 2020	2020	Modifying basal elongation of elastic bands (EB) has been proven useful to increase some parameters of the intensity in variable resistance training. Therefore, the question arises as to whether the pertinent resistance could be applied with EB immediately above the sticking point in squat exercises to optimize the performance. The purpose was to analyze some variables of the external (kilograms and number of repetitions) and internal load (heart rate, blood pressure, and rate of perceived exertion) after six different conditions of the squat exercise when using weight plates (WP) or EB (placed at different points of the range of motion) and applying maximal or submaximal effort. Twenty physically active males (25.50 +/- 5.26 yrs) underwent two sessions for familiarization and one for assessment. The six conditions (three with WP and three with EB) were randomly performed. The sticking point of each subject was measured using the knee joint angle and the resistance was applied with EB at this height. Immediately after finishing each set subjects reported perceived effort rate and cardiovascular measurements were taken. Repetitions completed, and kilograms used were recorded. Repeated measures testing evaluated differences between conditions. EB permitted performing 8 more repetitions compared to WP when the same load was added at standing position. Adding the load immediately above the sticking point significantly (p < 0.05) increased 24.7% the kilograms used and permitted participants to perform 3 more repetitions. Internal load measurements suggested that EB could significantly (p < 0.05) reduce the perceived effort rate and/or physiological stress depending on their application. EB are a suitable device to load the bar for squat exercises in fit young men. According to the necessities of the subjects, if the load with EB is added at different points of the range of motion, it could be possible to overcome the sticking point, to maximize the performance and/or modulate cardiovascular and perceptual responses.		[Gene-Morales, Javier; Gene-Sampedro, Andres] Univ Valencia, Res Inst Traff & Rd Safety, Valencia, Spain; [Gene-Morales, Javier; Colado, Juan C.] Univ Valencia, Res Unit Sport & Hlth, Valencia, Spain; [Gene-Morales, Javier; Colado, Juan C.] Univ Valencia, Res Grp Prevent & Hlth Exercise & Sport PHES, Valencia, Spain; [Gene-Sampedro, Andres] Univ Valencia, Dept Opt Optometry & Vis Sci, Valencia, Spain; [Salvador, Rosario] Univ Valencia, Dept Physiol, Valencia, Spain; [Colado, Juan C.] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Valencia, Spain; [Colado, Juan C.] Univ Valencia, Res Grp Prevent & Hlth Exercise & Sport, C Gasco Oliag 3, Valencia 46010, Spain								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000591922400014	39	Article; Article		
J	Van Hooren, Bas; Croix, Mark De Ste								Sensitive Periods to Train General Motor Abilities in Children and Adolescents: Do They Exist? A Critical Appraisal								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	6			7	14		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000545			DEC 2020	2020	Some long-term athlete development models have proposed generic sensitive periods or "windows of opportunity" during childhood and adolescence that are optimal for training general motor abilities such as strength or speed. However, it remains unclear whether these periods exist. This review will therefore critically appraise the rationale behind generic sensitive periods. We discuss several issues with generic sensitive periods and argue that general motor abilities and the associated sensitive periods do not exist. The identified issues with generic sensitive periods question their validity and we therefore suggest that they should not be used to train youth athletes.		[Van Hooren, Bas] Maastricht Univ, NUTRIM Sch Nutr & Translat Res Metab, Dept Nutr & Movement Sci, Med Ctr, Maastricht, Netherlands; [Van Hooren, Bas] Fontys Univ Appl Sci, Inst Sport Studies, Eindhoven, Netherlands; [Croix, Mark De Ste] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Cheltenham, Glos, England; [Van Hooren, Bas] Maastricht Univ, NUTRIM Sch Nutr & Translat Res Metab, Dept Nutr & Movement Sci, Med Ctr, Maastricht, Netherlands; [Van Hooren, Bas] Fontys Univ Appl Sci, Inst Sport Studies, Eindhoven, Netherlands								60							Sport Sciences	WOS:000618930700003	65	Article; Article		
J	Binder, Alexander D.; Grimes, Paul W.; Winterbotham, Russell G.								In the Money: Gender and Jockey Success on the Thoroughbred Racetrack								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	3			295	328	1527002520975839	10.1177/1527002520975839			APR 2021	2021	This paper examines the relative performance and access to mounts of female jockeys in American horseracing, the only major professional sport where female and male athletes directly compete on a regular basis. We modeled the determinants of the probability for a jockey finishing a race "in-the-money"-placing first, second, or third, and the determinants for receiving mounts. Among other findings, the results indicated that the probability for female jockeys finishing a race in the money was not significantly different from male jockeys, ceteris paribus, yet female jockeys continue to receive fewer mounts after controlling for other relevant, observable factors.		[Binder, Alexander D.; Grimes, Paul W.] Pittsburg State Univ, Kelce Coll Business, 1701 South Broadway, Pittsburg, KS 66762 USA; [Grimes, Paul W.] Mississippi State Univ, Coll Business, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA; [Winterbotham, Russell G.] Horse Ranker Social Network Horseplayers, Chicago, IL USA; [Binder, Alexander D.] Pittsburg State Univ, Kelce Coll Business, 1701 South Broadway, Pittsburg, KS 66762 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000600604900001	43	Article; Article		
J	Agha, Nola; Rascher, Daniel								Economic Development Effects of Major and Minor League Teams and Stadiums								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	3			274	294	1527002520975847	10.1177/1527002520975847			APR 2021	2021	Professional teams and leagues claim new stadiums lead to economic development. To test this, we utilize data from the Census Bureau on net establishment and employment changes across 871 Metropolitan and Micropolitan Statistical Areas from 2004 to 2012. Difference-in-differences and panel data techniques allow for a cross-sectional and time series comparison for both teams and new stadia in both professional and development leagues. Nearly all results from hundreds of models are insignificantly different from zero. Results from between- and random-effects models suggest that teams move into markets that already have higher employment and establishment growth. (JEL R58, H71, L83, Z28)		[Agha, Nola; Rascher, Daniel] Univ San Francisco, Sport Management Program, San Francisco, CA 94117 USA; [Agha, Nola] Univ San Francisco, Sport Management Program, San Francisco, CA 94117 USA								18							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000601227500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Mullin, Elizabeth M.; Cook, Sarah								Collegiate coach attitudes towards lesbians and gay men								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			519	527	1747954120977130	10.1177/1747954120977130			JUN 2021	2021	The purpose of the current study was to examine attitudes towards lesbians and gay men among National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I, II, and III coaches. Coaches (N 1/4 290) from NCAA Division I (21%), II (22%), and III (56%) member institutions representing 31 different sports completed the Attitudes towards Lesbians and Gay Men scale and a demographic questionnaire. Overall, coaches reported generally positive attitudes towards lesbians and gay men. No significant gender x division interaction was found with respect towards attitudes towards lesbians and gay men, Pillai's Trace 1/4 .023, F(4, 494) 1/4 1.419, p 1/4 .227, gp2 1/4 .011. Male coaches reported significantly more negative attitudes than female coaches, Pillai's Trace 1/4 .046, F(2, 247) 1/4 5.92, p 1/4 .003, gp2 1/4 .046. When examining differences in age, older coaches (50 and older) reported significantly more negative attitudes than 30-39 and 40-49-year-old coaches (ps<.05). These findings add to the limited understanding of coach attitudes towards individuals who identify as lesbian or gay men. An understanding of attitudes provides the basis for positive change that can be translated into more inclusive behaviors to provide a better experience for lesbian and gay male athletes.		[Mullin, Elizabeth M.] Springfield Coll, Dept Exercise Sci & Athlet Training, 263 Alden St, Springfield, MA 01109 USA; [Cook, Sarah] Univ Pacific, Sch Phys Therapy & Athlet Training, Hillsboro, OR USA; [Mullin, Elizabeth M.] Springfield Coll, Dept Exercise Sci & Athlet Training, 263 Alden St, Springfield, MA 01109 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599569200001	37	Article; Article		
J	Brown, Georgia A.; Veith, Stella; Sampson, John A.; Whalan, Matthew; Fullagar, Hugh H. K.								Adolescent football players' sleep, wellness and school physical activity over different phases of the year								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			701	709	1747954120973628	10.1177/1747954120973628			JUN 2021	2021	This study aimed to examine differences in sleep and perceived wellness between a group of adolescent academy football (soccer) players from sport high schools (SHS) and regular high schools (RHS) during different phases of the year, with a secondary focus on their school physical activity (s-PA) levels. Data were collected from 51 adolescent football players from one youth Australian academy in two blocks of two weeks (four weeks total). Subjective sleep quantity and quality, wellness and s-PA were assessed through validated daily questionnaires and weekly surveys. MANOVAs and ANOVAs for repeated measures were conducted to assess sleep and wellness variables across different weeks (school vs. holidays, early vs. late season) and between groups (SHS vs. RHS). No differences in sleep or muscle pain were found between players at SHS and RHS (p > 0.05). No effect of week (school vs. holidays, early season vs. late season) on sleep quality or wellness was found, nor did hours of s-PA affect sleep duration (all p > 0.05). Total sleep time was within recommended guidelines and significantly longer sleep times were experienced during the holidays compared to school term (p = 0.002). Overall, adolescent academy football players reported sleep quantities within recommended ranges and had greater sleep volumes during the holidays rather than during school. School type (SHS vs. RHS) and hours of s-PA had no effect on the players sleep within our cohort. Additionally, it appears perceptual wellness in this population is unaffected by time of season, or school compared to holidays.		[Brown, Georgia A.; Fullagar, Hugh H. K.] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Veith, Stella; Sampson, John A.; Whalan, Matthew] Univ Wollongong, Fac Sci Med & Hlth, Sch Med, Wollongong, NSW, Australia; [Brown, Georgia A.] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Sydney, NSW, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599914800001	37	Article; Article		
J	Gomez-Lopez, Manuel; Courel-Ibanez, Javier; Granero-Gallegos, Antonio								Profiles of motivation, fear of failure and anxiety in young handball players: A cross-sectional study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	3			658	669	1747954120975107	10.1177/1747954120975107			JUN 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to identify distinctive profiles (clusters) of high-level, young handball players according to their motivation, fear of failure and competitive state anxiety. In addition, we examined differences in the distribution of gender, age, and players' position within each profile. The study participants were 479 young handball players. The age range was 16-17 years old. Players were administered a battery composed of Sport Motivation Scale, Performance Failure Appraisal Inventory and Competitive State Anxiety Inventory-2R, to measure the above-mentioned theoretical constructs. Results showed three different player profiles that the discriminant analysis with canonical correlations grouped into two functions. Function 1 was characterized by those players with the highest values of motivation and self-confidence, and function 2 included those players with lower self-determined motivation, more amotivation, more fear of failure and the highest levels of anxiety. The results provide relevant information for coaches, as they will help them design individualized training programs that will improve athletes' performance, while ensuring their health and well-being.		[Gomez-Lopez, Manuel; Courel-Ibanez, Javier] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Gomez-Lopez, Manuel] Univ Murcia, Campus Int Excellence Mare Nostrum, Murcia, Spain; [Granero-Gallegos, Antonio] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Educ, Almeria, Spain; [Granero-Gallegos, Antonio] Univ Almeria, Hlth Res Ctr, Almeria, Spain; [Granero-Gallegos, Antonio] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Educ, Almeria, Spain								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599617100001	100	Article; Article		
J	Soebbing, Brian P.; Wicker, Pamela; Weimar, Daniel; Orlowski, Johannes								How do Bookmakers Interpret Running Performance of Teams in Previous Games? Evidence From the Football Bundesliga								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	3			231	250	1527002520975827	10.1177/1527002520975827			APR 2021	2021	This study examines how running performance (intensive runs, total distance covered) of football teams in previous games impacts betting markets as it relates to expected win probability. Theoretically, bookmakers could interpret team's running performance as effort or fatigue, with sports science studies suggesting that distance covered reflects effort and intensive runs signal fatigue. Using data from the 2011/12-2018/19 seasons of the German Bundesliga, beta regression models reveal that bookmakers interpret team's running performance in previous games contrary to physiological explanations in sports sciences. Tests of market efficiency incorporating these findings do not find a profitable betting strategy for bettors.		[Soebbing, Brian P.] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Wicker, Pamela] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Sport Management & Sport Sociol, Bielefeld, Germany; [Weimar, Daniel] Univ Duisburg Essen, Mercator Sch Management, Duisburg, Germany; [Orlowski, Johannes] Univ Zurich, Chair Serv & Operat Management, Zurich, Switzerland; [Soebbing, Brian P.] Univ Alberta, 2-158 Van Vliet Complex,Univ Hall, Edmonton, AB T6G 2J9, Canada								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000601235400001	41	Article; Article		
J	Sweeney, Emily; Howell, David R.; Seehusen, Corrine N.; Tilley, David; Casey, Ellen								Health outcomes among former female collegiate gymnasts: the influence of sport specialization, concussion, and disordered eating								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	4			438	444		10.1080/00913847.2020.1850150			OCT 2 2021	2021	Objective: Gymnastics is a popular sport with high injury rates, especially at the collegiate level. There is limited evidence, however, regarding the risks of early specialization in this sport, the rate of concussions in gymnasts, and the long-term effects of disordered eating in gymnasts. We sought to describe health-related outcomes of former collegiate gymnasts and the association with early sport specialization, concussion history, and disordered eating. Methods: We distributed an online survey through social media outlets. A total of 473 former female collegiate gymnasts completed the survey and were grouped according to early (<14 years) specialization, presence or absence of concussion history, and history of disordered eating. We determined the number of participants who had time-loss injuries, injuries requiring surgery, and injuries resulting in retirement. We also evaluated menstrual history, reasons for sport retirement, functional outcome measures, and mental health. Results: The median age of gymnastics specialization was 8 years [interquartile range = 6-11 years]. The proportion of injuries sustained during college did not significantly differ by specialization age. A significantly greater proportion of early specializers required surgery for college sports-related injuries (60% vs. 44%; p = 0.02). Forty-two percent of the respondents reported concussion history, and a greater proportion of those with concussion history reported seeking mental health treatment during college (32% vs. 23%; p = 0.03), and anxiety disorder diagnosis (16% vs. 9%; p = 0.01). Disordered eating history was reported by 34% of the respondents, and this group had a higher proportion of time-loss injury (78% vs 65%; p = 0.004), and osteoporosis (4% vs 0%; p = 0.003) during college, and worse current pain (11.5 vs 10.2; p = 0.007) and physical function (12.2 vs 11.0; p = 0.01) than those without disordered eating. Conclusion: Athletes and clinicians should be aware of the long-term effects of early specialization, concussions, and disordered eating in gymnastics as these issues are common in female collegiate gymnasts.		[Sweeney, Emily; Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Sweeney, Emily; Howell, David R.; Seehusen, Corrine N.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Tilley, David] Champ Phys Therapy & Performance, Waltham, MA USA; [Casey, Ellen] Hosp Special Surg, Dept Physiatry, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA; [Sweeney, Emily] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								20							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000591751300001	35	Article; Article		
J	Li, Neill Y.; Onor, Gabriel, I; Lemme, Nicholas J.; Gil, Joseph A.								Epidemiology of Peripheral Nerve Injuries in Sports, Exercise, and Recreation in the United States, 2009-2018								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	3			355	362		10.1080/00913847.2020.1850151			JUL 3 2021	2021	Objective To assess rates of peripheral nerve injuries (PNI) in sport, exercise, and recreational activities. Methods The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) was used to query nerve injuries presenting to emergency departments across the United States. Identified injuries were stratified to those with product codes associated with exercise, sports, or recreation. Injuries only to the upper and lower extremities were included as cranial and spinal cord injuries were excluded. PNI was analyzed by age, sex, sport/recreational activity, race, and evaluated for incidence rates by year and activity. Statistical significance was considered to be P Results Between 2009-2018, 551,612 patients presented with PNI from which 120,675 (21.9%) were associated with exercise, sports, or recreation. PNI significantly increased between 2009-2018 (p = 0.002) with an overall incidence rate of 36.9 (95% confidence interval: 28.6, 45.2) per 1,000,000 person-years. A majority of PNI occurred through exercise (n = 56,328, 46.7%). PNI peaked in the fourth and fifth decades in males and females, respectively, with males accounting for significantly more than females (incidence rate ratio: 1.52, 95% confidence interval: 1.18, 1.86; p < 0.0001). White patients had a majority of PNI at 49.3% though African-Americans carried the highest incidence rate at 30.4 (95% confidence interval: 23.8, 36.9) per 1,000,000 person-years. Football had the highest proportion of PNI until age 19 (17.3%) as exercise carried the highest proportion for those 20 and older ranging from 27.9% to 53.8% of PNI. Conclusion PNIs are rising with participation in exercise, sports, and recreation over this 10-year study period. Injuries predominantly occurred in football for those under 20 and exercise for those 20 and older. Precautions and appropriate training are necessary for individuals participating in high-intensity exercise, sports, or recreation to limit the risk of a devastating neurological injury.		[Li, Neill Y.; Lemme, Nicholas J.; Gil, Joseph A.] Brown Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [Onor, Gabriel, I] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Med Sch, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [Onor, Gabriel, I] Brown Univ, Alpert Med Sch, Providence, RI 02903 USA								37							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000591764200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Schmidt, Marcus; Meyer, Eike; Jaitner, Thomas								Quantifying jump-specific loads in beach volleyball by an inertial measurement device								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			391	397	1747954120973101	10.1177/1747954120973101			APR 2021	2021	The ability to complete a large volume of high intensity jumps represents an important performance indicator in beach volleyball. Inertial measurement units are suitable tools to monitor those jump-specific loads but the applicability in beach volleyball lacks research. This study evaluates the accuracy of a commercially available inertial measurement device in beach volleyball for (i) jump count during match-play and (ii) jump height measurement under laboratory conditions. Jump count measures were compared to retrospective video analysis to determine precision and recall. Jump heights were referenced to three-dimensional motion analysis to determine typical errors of estimate, correlations and Bland-Altman statistics. Match-play analysis results in excellent precision (0.975) for a total of 439 jumps and recall values between 0.836-1.000 depending on jump type. Jump heights revealed good to excellent correlations for block (r = 0.81) and spike jumps (r = 0.90), with a mean bias of 2.61 and 7.69 cm, respectively. The device demonstrates good validity for measuring jump count as well as vertical displacement. Due to its potential for nearly real time feedback with constraints of limited resources, we assume that this device will have considerable benefits for quantifying jump-specific load in beach volleyball.		[Schmidt, Marcus; Meyer, Eike; Jaitner, Thomas] TU Dortmund Univ, Dept Sports & Sport Sci, Dortmund, Germany; [Schmidt, Marcus] Otto Hahn Str 3, D-44227 Dortmund, Germany								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599549100001	25	Article; Article		
J	Pino-Ortega, Jose; Bastida-Castillo, Alejandro; Gomez-Carmona, Carlos D.; Rico-Gonzalez, Markel								Validity and reliability of an eight antennae ultra-wideband local positioning system to measure performance in an indoor environment								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	2			145	155		10.1080/14763141.2020.1830162			FEB 1 2024	2024	Validity and reliability have become crucial factors in tracking player load and positioning. One of the most important parameters to guarantee accurate measurements with radiofrequency systems is the number of reference nodes used to calculate player position. However, the accuracy of ultra-wideband (UWB) technology has only been analysed with 6 antennae. So, the purpose of the present study was to analyse the accuracy and inter-unit reliability of an UWB system with eight antennae. Three well-trained males covered 18 trajectories for the analysis of x- and y- coordinate accuracy assessment related to the positional variation among eight antennae UWB data and lines on a basketball court. This was achieved using geographical information system mapping software that calculated, for each interval and participant, the distance from the main axis of locomotion and the opposite side of the field every 0.5 s. The results showed that this is a valid system (Mean = 0.03 m; magnitude differences = 0.21% with real measures as reference; %CV <1% in all cases) for measuring locomotion and positioning. Besides, the inter-unit, test-retest and inter-subject analysis did not influence the reliability results. So, an eight antennae UWB system can be considered suitable for locomotion and positioning in an indoor environment.		[Pino-Ortega, Jose; Bastida-Castillo, Alejandro] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Pino-Ortega, Jose; Rico-Gonzalez, Markel] Univ Murcia, BioVetMed & SportSci Res Grp, Murcia, Spain; [Gomez-Carmona, Carlos D.] Univ Extremadura, Dept Mus Plast & Body Express, Caceres, Spain; [Rico-Gonzalez, Markel] Univ Basque Country, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Rico-Gonzalez, Markel] Univ Murcia, BioVetMed & SportSci Res Grp, Murcia, Spain; [Rico-Gonzalez, Markel] Univ Basque Country, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain								30							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000590372200001	36	Article; Article		
J	Brian, Ali; Starrett, Angela; Haibach-Beach, Pamela; De Meester, An; Taunton Miedema, Sally; Pennell, Adam; Lieberman, Lauren J.								Perceived Motor Competence Mediates the Relationship Between Gross Motor Skills and Physical Activity in Youth With Visual Impairments								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			310	317		10.1080/02701367.2020.1831688			APR 3 2022	2022	Children with visual impairments typically demonstrate lower levels of motor competence, physical activity, and perceived motor competence compared to their peers without visual impairments. Stodden and colleagues purport that perceived motor competence mediates the relationship between motor competence and physical activity for youth without visual impairments. Purpose: The purpose of this study was to test whether perceived motor competence mediates the relationship between motor competence and physical activity for youth with visual impairments. Methods: Participants (N = 138; boys = 81, girls = 57) were age 9-18 years (M-age = 13.37, SD = 2.34) with visual impairments. Participants completed the Test of Gross Motor Development-3, the Test of Perceived Physical Competence-VI, and the Physical Activity Questionnaire. Results: Locomotor skills predicted perceived motor competence, which predicted physical activity. Perceived motor competence showed a mediation effect on the path from locomotor skills to physical activity. There was no significant relationship between locomotor skills and physical activity. Conclusion: The results from this study provide initial evidence to support the hypothesis proposed by Stodden and colleagues. These data provide a rationale to include both perceived and actual motor competence within targeted intervention strategies to increase physical activity behaviors for youth with visual impairments. Future research should consider following participants longitudinally to test the roles of perceived and actual motor competence as factors supporting positive developmental trajectories for health.		[Brian, Ali; Starrett, Angela; De Meester, An; Taunton Miedema, Sally] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Haibach-Beach, Pamela; Lieberman, Lauren J.] SUNY Coll Brockport, Brockport, NY USA; [Pennell, Adam] Pepperdine Univ, Malibu, CA 90265 USA; [Brian, Ali] Univ South Carolina, Dept Phys Educ, Coll Educ, 1300 Wheat St, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000589579800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Book, Karin; Svanborg Eden, Gustav								Malmo - the skateboarding city: a multi-level approach for developing and marketing a city through user-driven partnerships								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	1			164	178		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2020-0101			MAR 29 2021	2021	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine how skateboarding as a community, sport and cultural phenomenon can become integrated into and drive the development, branding and marketing of a city (Malmo). Design/methodology/approach This paper is produced through a communicative co-constructed process of one scholar and one practitioner within the skateboarding field. Through the narrative told by the practitioner, and with basis in the established understanding and conceptualization of place marketing through sport, success factors of the skateboarding initiatives in Malmo are identified. Findings The skateboarding story of Malmo fits well into the established conceptualization of place branding and marketing, neoliberalism and urban entrepreneurialism. Also, it demonstrates the power of a unique user-driven partnerships between skaters, a non-profit organization and public institutions to create a skateboard-friendly city and as a consequence a strong internationally renowned skate-image. The multi-level, multi-content approach is founded in shared values and mutual benefits. Instead of fitting a phenomenon into an outward-oriented image-strategy, skateboarding as a sport and culture has been allowed to develop organically, creating a credible and unique image for Malmo. Originality/value This study adds to the literature on sport and city marketing/branding by developing a deeper, empirically founded, understanding of how to combine top-down and bottom-up approaches in urban development, marketing and branding. The results have scientific as well as practical value.		[Book, Karin] Malmo Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Malmo, Sweden; [Svanborg Eden, Gustav] City Malmo St Pk & Property Dept, Malmo, Sweden; [Book, Karin] Malmo Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Malmo, Sweden								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000592116900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Ae, Kazumichi; Burke, Dave; Kawamura, Takashi; Koike, Sekiya								Optimisation of the upper body motion for production of the bat-head speed in baseball batting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	2			196	210		10.1080/14763141.2020.1834609			FEB 1 2024	2024	The purposes of this study were to 1) develop a simulation model of baseball batting utilising the standard motion, and 2) explore optimal motions of the upper body to increase the bat-head speed. Twenty-three male collegiate baseball players performed tee batting set at waist height. A ten-segment angle-driven simulation model consisting of a bat and upper body was driven using with the coordinate data of the standard motion. Performance optimisation was conducted to find joint angle time histories of the upper body that increase the maximum bat-head speed. In the evaluation of the simulation model, the root mean square error between the measured and simulation model was 0.19 m/s and 0.98 degrees for the time histories of the bat-head speed and bat orientation angle. Performance optimisation was able to achieve a targeted increase in bat-head speed (35.6 m/s to 40.0 m/s) through greater barrel-side shoulder abduction, knob-side elbow flexion, and torso right lateral flexion around ball impact resulted in the bat accelerating in the hitting direction. It is concluded that the proposed simulation approach can be applied as a tool for further simulation analysis in various complex sporting motions.		[Ae, Kazumichi] Ibaraki Prefectural Univ Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Ami, Ibaraki, Japan; [Burke, Dave] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Kawamura, Takashi; Koike, Sekiya] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Ae, Kazumichi] Ibaraki Prefectural Univ Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Ami, Ibaraki, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000588160200001	30	Article; Article		
J	Robinson, G. Matthew; Magnusen, Marshall J.; Neubert, Mitchell; Miller, Glenn								Servant leadership, leader effectiveness, and the role of political skill: A study of interscholastic sport administrators and coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			291	303	1747954120971755	10.1177/1747954120971755			APR 2021	2021	Servant leadership is a model of leadership based on ethics and benevolent service to others and has been associated with numerous positive outcomes for employees and organizations. Due to a limited number of studies examining servant leadership (SL) within sport, the purpose of this study was to investigate the relation of servant leadership and leader effectiveness outcomes in sport administration and to examine if political skill (i.e., how people influence others), was a moderator of servant leader effectiveness. A multilevel model was used to examine these questions within a sample of interscholastic athletic directors and head coaches. Findings revealed servant leadership was directly related to leader effectiveness (LE), affective organizational commitment (AOC), and job satisfaction (JS) of head coaches. Moreover, there was a significant negative interaction between servant leadership and political skill. The negative interaction may indicate that extreme values of servant leadership have opposite relations to leader effectiveness and other outcomes when political skill is present. Though a minimal effect, political skill detracts from LE in those who are perceived as exhibiting strong servant leader behaviors. Findings and limitations are discussed; questions for future research are suggested.		[Robinson, G. Matthew] Schreiner Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kerrville, TX USA; [Magnusen, Marshall J.; Neubert, Mitchell; Miller, Glenn] Baylor Univ, One Bear Pl 97312, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Magnusen, Marshall J.] Baylor Univ, One Bear Pl 97312, Waco, TX 76798 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000599558100001	53	Article; Article		
J	Coratella, Giuseppe; Tornatore, Gianpaolo; Longo, Stefano; Borrelli, Marta; Doria, Christian; Esposito, Fabio; Ce, Emiliano								The Effects of Verbal Instructions on Lower Limb Muscles' Excitation in Back-Squat								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			429	435		10.1080/02701367.2020.1840496			APR 3 2022	2022	The present study investigated whether or not verbal instruction affects the electromyographic (EMG) amplitude of back-squat prime movers. Fifteen resistance-trained men performed back-squat at 50%1-RM and 80%1-RM and received external (EF) or internal focus (IF) on lower-limb posterior muscles. EMG amplitude of gluteus maximus, biceps femoris, gastrocnemius medialis, vastus lateralis and tibialis anterior was recorded during both concentric and eccentric phase. During the concentric phase, the gluteus maximus and biceps femoris EMG amplitude was greater in IF vs EF at 50% [effect size (ES): 0.63(95%CI 0.09/1.17) and 0.49(0.10/0.78) respectively] and 80% [ES: 1.30(0.29/2.21) and 0.59(0.08/1.10)]. The gastrocnemius medialis EMG amplitude was greater in IF vs EF during the eccentric phase at 50% [ES: 0.73(0.13/1.33)] and at 80% [ES: 0.72(0.10/1.34)]. Concomitantly, vastus lateralis EMG amplitude was lower at 50% [ES: -0.71(-1.38/-0.04)] and 80% [ES: -0.68(-1.33/-0.03)]. During the eccentric phase, the tibialis anterior EMG amplitude was greater in IF vs EF at 50% [ES: 0.90(0.12 to 1.68)] and 80% [ES: 0.74(0.13/1.45)]. Irrespective of the load, in the thigh muscles the internal focus promoted a different motor pattern, increasing the hip extensors and reducing the knee extensor excitation during the concentric phase. Concomitantly, both ankle muscles were more excited during the eccentric phase, possibly to increase the anterior-posterior balance control. The internal focus in back-squat seems to have phase-dependent effects, and it is visible at both moderate and high load.		[Coratella, Giuseppe; Tornatore, Gianpaolo; Longo, Stefano; Borrelli, Marta; Doria, Christian; Esposito, Fabio; Ce, Emiliano] Univ Milan, Milan, Italy; [Esposito, Fabio; Ce, Emiliano] IRCSS Galeazzi Orthopaed Inst, Milan, Italy; [Coratella, Giuseppe] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Via Giuseppe Colombo 71, I-20133 Milan, Italy								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000588180100001	28	Article; Article		
J	Gorsic, Maja; Rochelle, LuAnna E.; Layer, Jacob S.; Smith, Derek T.; Novak, Domen; Dai, Boyi								Biomechanical comparisons of back and front squats with a straight bar and four squats with a transformer bar								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	2			166	181		10.1080/14763141.2020.1832563			FEB 1 2024	2024	The purpose was to quantify trunk and lower extremity biomechanics among back and front squats with a straight bar and four squats with different anterior-posterior load placements imposed by a transformer bar. Ten males and eight females performed six squat conditions: back and front squats with a straight bar, back and front squats with a transformer bar, and squats with more posteriorly or anteriorly placed loads with a transformer bar. A constant load of 70% of the participant's one-repetition maximum in the straight-bar front squat was used. Kinematic and kinetic data were collected to quantify joint biomechanics at an estimated parallel squat position in the descending and ascending phases. Squats with more anteriorly placed load significantly decreased trunk flexion and pelvis anterior tilt angles with large effect sizes but increased low-back extension moments with medium to large effect sizes. Hip, knee, and ankle extension moments were generally similar among most conditions. Participants adjusted their trunk and pelvis to mediate the effects of load placements on low-back and lower extremity moments. While lower extremity loading was similar among different squats, the different trunk and pelvis angles and low-back moments should be taken into consideration for people with low-back impairment.		[Gorsic, Maja; Rochelle, LuAnna E.; Layer, Jacob S.; Smith, Derek T.; Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Novak, Domen] Univ Wyoming, Dept Elect & Comp Engn, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000587544100001	31	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Lin-Hwa; Lo, Kuo-Cheng; Jou, I-Ming; Su, Fong-Chin								Forearm muscle activation, ulnar nerve at the elbow and forearm fatigue in overhand sports								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	6			792	807		10.1080/14763141.2018.1517820			NOV 1 2020	2020	This study examined the morphologic changes of the ulnar nerve in different elbow positions by ultrasonography and the effects of fatigue on forearm muscle control during overhand movements. We enrolled 12 tennis players who performed flat serves and 15 baseball pitchers who performed fastball pitching. The motion capture was conducted with 14 reflective markers attached on anatomic landmarks of the participant for tennis serve and baseball pitching data collection. The distance from the nerve to the medial condyle between the tennis players and baseball pitchers showed significant differences (p = 0.006) as the elbow flexed to 90 degrees. The differences are due to the baseball player's repetitive pitching motion while such motion does not apply to tennis player. Activity of the extensor carpi radialis (ECR) during the cocking phase in the tennis serves showed significant differences (p = 0.022) between the nonfatigued and fatigued states; the maximal value was observed in the fatigued state. The significant increase in the ECR activity in the fatigued state might be responsible for grasp-and-release activities and maintaining the wrist joint stability when performing overhand movements. Forearm fatigue influenced their overhand motion ability in accurate ball control, although it did not decrease the ball speed.		[Wang, Lin-Hwa] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan; [Lo, Kuo-Cheng] Kun Shan Univ, Phys Educ Off, Tainan, Taiwan; [Jou, I-Ming] I Shou Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, E Da Hosp, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Su, Fong-Chin] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Dept Biomed Engn, Tainan, Taiwan; [Wang, Lin-Hwa] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000576223500006	52	Article; Article		
J	DeLang, Matthew D.; Garrison, J. Craig; Hannon, Joseph P.; McGovern, Ryan P.; Christoforetti, John; Thorborg, Kristian								Short and long lever adductor squeeze strength values in 100 elite youth soccer players: Does age and previous groin pain matter?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				243	248		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.10.001			NOV 2020	2020	Objective: To examine adductor squeeze strength in elite youth soccer players by investigating the relationship of age and previous one-year groin pain on adductor squeeze force outputs, and to provide reference values for youth players. Design: Cross-sectional study. Participants: Elite youth soccer players (n = 100; age 14.5 +/- 1.9 years; height 168.0 +/- 10.7 cm; mass 60.7 +/- 13.0 kg) participated. Main outcome measures: Adductor squeeze tests were captured in short and long lever positions, and groin pain assessed via subjective retrospective questionnaire. Multiple linear regressions were computed to compare the effects of age and previous one-year groin pain on adductor squeeze strength. Results: Raw adductor squeeze force values (N) had a moderate positive relationship with age (short r = 0.517, p < 0.001; long r = 0.457, p < 0.001), but not when force is normalized to body mass (N/kg; short r = 0.014, p = 0.444; long r =-0.173, p = 0.043). Previous groin pain did not have an effect on short or long lever squeeze strength. Reference values for long lever adductor squeeze strength (3.59 +/- 0.77 Nm/kg) are provided. Conclusion: Age and previous groin pain do not have an effect on adductor squeeze strength values in elite youth soccer players, so comparing values to the present adolescent cohort can be quickly inter-preted without adjustment for age or previous injury. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[DeLang, Matthew D.; Garrison, J. Craig; Hannon, Joseph P.; McGovern, Ryan P.; Christoforetti, John] Texas Hlth Sports Med, Dallas, TX USA; [Thorborg, Kristian] Univ Copenhagen, Amager Hvidovre Hosp, Sports Orthoped Res Ctr Copenhagen SORC C, Dept Orthoped Surg, Copenhagen, Denmark; [DeLang, Matthew D.] Texas Hlth Sports Med, 800 5th Ave, Ft Worth, TX 76104 USA								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200030	20	Article; Article		
J	Mantovani, Lisa; Maestroni, Luca; Bettariga, Francesco; Gobbo, Massimiliano; Lopomo, Nicola Francesco; McLean, Sionnadh								"Does isometric exercise improve leg stiffness and hop pain in subjects with Achilles tendinopathy? A feasibility study"								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				234	242		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.09.005			NOV 2020	2020	Background: In Achilles tendinopathy (AT) the ability to store and recycle elastic energy during ground contact phase is often altered. A measure of this function is represented by leg stiffness (LS). Immediate responses in LS following therapeutic intervention have not been examined. Objective: The aim of this paper was to examine the feasibility of the protocol in participants with AT. Design: Single cohort feasibility study. Participants: Adults with persistent AT pain, symptoms on palpation and less than 80 points on the Visa A questionnaire. Intervention: heavy isometric exercise sequence in plantarflexion. Outcome measures: Feasibility was assessed by evaluating: the willingness of participants to enroll into the study, the number of eligible participants, the recruitment rate, adherence to the intervention, the drop-out rate, the tolerability of the protocol. LS, reactive strength index, pain and rate of perceived effort were secondary outcomes. Results: 22 AT were eligible for data collection and 19 entered the statistical analysis. The intervention was well tolerated, no withdrawals. Pain scores were low during both the intervention and the assessment. Immediate improvements in LS and pain were recorded. Conclusions: The isometric exercise protocol was feasible. Future research should investigate its effectiveness. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mantovani, Lisa; Maestroni, Luca; Bettariga, Francesco] Studioerre, Via Badia 18, I-25127 Brescia, BS, Italy; [Maestroni, Luca] Smuoviti, Viale Giulio Cesare 29, I-24121 Bergamo, BG, Italy; [Maestroni, Luca] Middlesex Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, London Sport Inst, Greenlands Lane, London, England; [Lopomo, Nicola Francesco] Univ Brescia, Dept Informat Engn, Brescia, Italy; [Gobbo, Massimiliano; Lopomo, Nicola Francesco] Univ Brescia, Lab Clin Integrat Physiol, Brescia, Italy; [Gobbo, Massimiliano; Lopomo, Nicola Francesco] Univ Brescia, Dept Clin & Expt Sci, Brescia, Italy; [McLean, Sionnadh] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sch Hlth Wellbeing & Life Sci, Broomhall Rd, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Mantovani, Lisa] Studioerre, Via Badia 18, I-25127 Brescia, BS, Italy								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200029	43	Article; Article		
J	Chijimatsu, Masato; Ishida, Tomoya; Yamanaka, Masanori; Taniguchi, Shohei; Ueno, Ryo; Ikuta, Ryohei; Samukawa, Mina; Ino, Takumi; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu								Landing instructions focused on pelvic and trunk lateral tilt decrease the knee abduction moment during a single-leg drop vertical jump								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				226	233		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.09.010			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate the effects of pelvic and trunk lateral tilt-focused landing instructions on the knee abduction moment during the single-leg drop vertical jump task. Design: Descriptive laboratory study. Setting: Motion analysis laboratory. Participants: Fifteen young, healthy female participants. Main outcome measures: The participants performed 15 single-leg drop vertical jumps. Landing in-structions with self-video recordings were provided so that the participants' pelvis and trunk remained horizontal in the frontal plane. Pelvic, trunk and knee kinematics and kinetics were evaluated using a three-dimensional motion analysis system before and after the landing instructions. Results: The peak knee abduction moment significantly decreased postinstruction (preinstruction 22.6 +/- 15.3 Nm, postinstruction 17.9 +/- 15.4 Nm, P = 0.004), as did pelvic and trunk lateral tilt (P < 0.01). The knee abduction and internal rotation angles at initial contact significantly decreased postinstruction (P = 0.037, P = 0.007), with no significant change in the peak knee abduction and internal rotation angles from pre-to postinstruction. Conclusions: Landing instructions focused on pelvic and trunk lateral tilt are effective in decreasing the knee abduction moment during the single-leg drop vertical jump. Pelvic and trunk lateral tilt should be controlled to decrease the knee abduction moment during single-leg landing. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Chijimatsu, Masato; Ishida, Tomoya; Taniguchi, Shohei; Samukawa, Mina; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Chijimatsu, Masato] Matsuda Orthoped Mem Hosp, Dept Phys Therapy, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Yamanaka, Masanori] Hokkaido Chitose Coll Rehabil, Fac Hlth Sci, Chitose, Hokkaido, Japan; [Ueno, Ryo] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Ikuta, Ryohei] Hachioji Sports Orthopaed Clin, Tokyo, Japan; [Ino, Takumi] Hokkaido Univ Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Ishida, Tomoya] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Kita Ku, West 5,North 12, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600812, Japan								24							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200028	55	Article; Article		
J	Powell, Andrew; Williamson, Samuel; Heneghan, Nicola R.; Horsley, Ian								Investigation of the Closed Kinetic Chain Upper Extremity Stability Test in elite canoe/kayak slalom athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				220	225		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.09.001			NOV 2020	2020	Objective: To investigate the correlation of arm length with different CKCUEST measures and determine if a modification of the test position (modified-CKCUEST), or normalisation of the CKCUEST (normalised-CKCUEST) score after testing, control for arm length most effectively. Study design: Quasi Experimental. Setting: British Canoe Slalom National Training Centre. Participants: Thirteen (5 male, 8 female) asymptomatic national squad canoe/kayak slalom athletes were recruited during winter profiling. Main outcome measure: Three measures of the CKCUEST were investigated. The CKCUEST, hands 36 inches apart; modified-CKCUEST, hands arm width apart (measured as C7 spinous process to tip of middle finger); and normalised-CKCUEST (measured as CKCUEST score/arm length). Results: A significant positive correlation was found between arm length and the CKCUEST score (r = 0.807; p = 0.001) and normalised-CKCUEST score (r = 0.654; p = 0.015). No significant correlation was found between the modified-CKCUEST score and arm length (p = 0.745). A statistically significant difference between narrow and wide hand positions, greater than the minimal detectable change, was found (p = 0.000). Conclusions: Arm length has a significant impact on CKCUEST score. The modified-CKCUEST score corrected for arm length where the normalised-CKCUEST score did not. Modifying the CKCUEST to individual anthropometrics needs to be performed pre-testing when comparisons are being made between individuals or groups. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Powell, Andrew; Williamson, Samuel] English Inst Sport, London, England; [Heneghan, Nicola R.] Univ Birmingham, Ctr Precis Rehabil Spinal Pain, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Horsley, Ian] English Inst Sport, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Powell, Andrew] Lee Valley Whitewater Ctr, English Inst Sport, British Canoeing, Stn Rd, Waltham Cross EN9 1AB, Herts, England								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200027	34	Article; Article		
J	Stokes, Mark J.; Witchalls, Jeremy; Waddington, Gordon; Adams, Roger								Can musculoskeletal screening test findings guide interventions for injury prevention and return from injury in field hockey?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				204	213		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.09.009			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: The aim of this study is to identify if intrinsic factors tested in the preseason screening (PSS) can identify an elevated risk of injury. This aim has two aspects; to assess whether previous injury is associated with ongoing deficits in performance, and to assess if the PSS can identify differences in intrinsic factors that profile risk of future injury. Design: A cohort of state level field hockey players were tested on a screening test battery including proprioception, postural stability, muscular strength and range of motion, to establish if these intrinsic factors were useful in identifying elevated risk of injury. Retrospective injury data was collated to determine association with previous injury and prospective injury data was collated to determine as-sociation with future injury. Participants: A total of 130 field hockey players were included in this study, from state level squads (age +/- SD = 20.96 (3.75); height = 176.09 cm). Groups for prescreening and post screening injury status (injured/not injured) were established for comparison to screening test results. Results: Right Active Movement Extent Discrimination Assessment (AMEDA), left AMEDA and right Y-balance test (YBT) anterior direction (Ant) were significantly associated (p < 0.05) with injury prior to screening. Right YBTAnt and right and left hip internal rotation (IR) were significantly associated (p < 0.05) with injury post screening. The YBTAnt and YBT posteromedial (PMed) reach directions and Hip IR are associated with previous hamstring injury and show a difference between post screening injured and non-injured groups. Conclusions: AMEDA, R YBTAnt, Hip IR tests should be a focus for recovery after previous injury and during season preparation. Full recovery may improve readiness to return to play and reduce risk of primary injury or re-injury. YBTAnt and YBTPmed and Hip IR show a performance deficit link between previous injury and subsequent re-injury of hamstrings. Since these are the most common re-injury types in this cohort, these tests are clinically useful in informing return to play decisions for hockey players. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Stokes, Mark J.; Witchalls, Jeremy; Waddington, Gordon; Adams, Roger] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, 11 Kirinari St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Stokes, Mark J.] Ctr Excellence Queensland Acad Sport, 400 Kessels Rd, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Stokes, Mark J.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, 11 Kirinari St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200025	57	Article; Article		
J	Goto, Shiho; Garrison, J. Craig; Hannon, Joseph P.; Grondin, Angellyn N.; Bothwell, James M.; Wang-Price, Sharon; Bush, Curtis A.; Papaliodis, Dean N.; Dietrich, Lindsey N.								Quadriceps strength changes across the continuum of care in adolescent male and female athletes with anterior cruciate ligament injury and reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				214	219		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.016			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: To examine the quadriceps strength (QUADS) on the surgical (SURG) and non-surgical (NonSURG) limbs in adolescent male and female athletes at pre-operative (PRE), 12 weeks post-operative (12WK), and return to sport (RTS) time points following ACL injury and reconstruction. Design: Prospective cohort study design. Setting: Clinical Research Laboratory. Participants: 66 adolescent athletes. Main outcome measures: Isokinetic QUADS of the SURG and Non-SURG limbs at the PRE, 12WK, and RTS time points were assessed and compared between each time point. Results: Both male and female participants had significantly lower 12 WK QUADS in the SURG limb than the PRE QUADS, but the RTS QUADS was significantly greater than the 12WK QUAD (p < 0.05). However, only female participants had greater RTS QUADS as compared to the PRE QUADS (p < 0.001). For the NonSURG limb, only male participants had a significant improvement over time (PRE vs RTS; p < 0.001). Conclusion: Adolescent males and females differ in their QUADS recovery across the continuum of care following ACLR. Clinicians should consider this pattern of recovery when treating adolescent males and females. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Goto, Shiho; Garrison, J. Craig; Hannon, Joseph P.; Grondin, Angellyn N.] Texas Hlth Sports Med, 800 5th Ave,Suite 150, Ft Worth, TX 76104 USA; [Bothwell, James M.] Ft Worth Orthoped, 800 5th Ave Suite 200, Ft Worth, TX 76104 USA; [Wang-Price, Sharon] Texas Womans Univ, 5500 Southwestern Med Ave, Dallas, TX 75235 USA; [Bush, Curtis A.; Papaliodis, Dean N.] Orthoped Specialty Associates, 800 5th Ave Suite 300, Ft Worth, TX 76104 USA; [Dietrich, Lindsey N.] Sideline Orthoped & Sport, 902 West Randol Mill Rd Suite 120, Arlington, TX 76012 USA; [Goto, Shiho] Texas Hlth Sports Med, 800 5th Ave,Suite 150, Ft Worth, TX 76104 USA								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200026	33	Article; Article		
J	Hides, Julie; Frazer, Clint; Blanch, Peter; Grantham, Brittany; Sexton, Christopher; Mendis, M. Dilani								Clinical utility of measuring the size of the lumbar multifidus and quadratus lumborum muscles in the Australian football league setting: A prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				186	193		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.09.007			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: Test the odds of factors previously associated with lower limb injury (decreased size of the multifidus (MF) and increased size of the quadratus lumborum (QL) muscle) in an independent sample of Australian Rules Football (ARF) players. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: Professional ARF. Participants: Forty-three male ARF players. Main outcome measures: Cross-sectional areas (CSAs) of MF and QL muscles measured from pre-season ultrasound images. Playing season injuries were recorded by club personnel. A multivariable logistic regression model was used to evaluate the usefulness of MF and QL muscle size for predicting playing season lower limb injuries. Results: Fifteen players (35%) sustained a playing season lower limb injury. The multivariable model indicated that the odds of sustaining a lower limb injury during the season was 2.38 (95% CI: 1.18, 5.00; P 1/4 0.017) times less likely for a one cm(2) increase from the mean value in MF muscle CSA at the L5 vertebral level after adjusting for CSA of the QL, age and BMI. The main effect and interaction models positively predicted 75% of players that sustained a lower limb injury during the season (sensitivity 80%, specificity 85%). Conclusion: Future studies could examine the efficacy, feasibility and adherence of 'at risk' players to a pre-season training program aimed at increasing MF muscle size and monitor playing season injuries. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hides, Julie; Blanch, Peter; Grantham, Brittany; Mendis, M. Dilani] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Nathan Campus,170 Kessels Rd, Brisbane, Qld 4111, Australia; [Hides, Julie; Mendis, M. Dilani] Griffith Univ, Menzies Hlth Inst Queensland, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Frazer, Clint; Blanch, Peter] Brisbane Lions Australian Football Club, 812 Stanley St, Woolloongabba, Qld 4012, Australia; [Sexton, Christopher] Univ Queensland, Sch Dent, Herston, Qld 4006, Australia; [Hides, Julie] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Nathan Campus,170 Kessels Rd, Brisbane, Qld 4111, Australia								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200023	53	Article; Article		
J	Pietrosimone, Laura S.; Blackburn, J. Troy; Wikstrom, Erik A.; Berkoff, David J.; Docking, Sean, I; Cook, Jill; Padua, Darin A.								Landing biomechanics are not immediately altered by a single-dose patellar tendon isometric exercise protocol in male athletes with patellar tendinopathy: A single-blinded randomized cross-over trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				177	185		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.09.003			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: To a) determine the acute effects of a single-dose patellar tendon isometric exercise protocol on involved limb landing biomechanics in individuals with patellar tendinopathy and asymptomatic patellar tendon pathology, and b) determine if individuals with patellar tendinopathy demonstrated changes in pain following a single-dose patellar tendon isometric exercise protocol. Design: Single-blinded randomized cross-over trial. Setting: Laboratory; Participants: 28 young male athletes with symptomatic (n = 13, age: 19.62 +/- 1.61) and asymptomatic (n = 15, age: 21.13 +/- 1.88) patellar tendinopathy. Main outcome measures: Participants completed a single-dose patellar tendon isometric exercise protocol and a sham-TENS protocol, randomized and separated by 7-10 days. Pain-levels during a singlelimb decline squat (SLDS) and three-dimensional biomechanics were collected during a double-limb jump-landing task before and after each intervention protocol. A mixed-model repeated measures ANOVA was conducted to compare change scores for all dependent variables. Results: There were no group x intervention interactions for change in pain (F-(1,F- 26) = 0.555, p = 0.463). There was one significant group x intervention interaction for vertical ground reaction force (VGRF) (F-(1,F- 26) = 5.33, p = 0.029). However, post-hoc testing with Bonferroni correction demonstrated no statistical significance for group (SYM: t =-1.679, p = 0.119; ASYM: t =-1.7, p = 0.107) or intervention condition (isometric: t =-2.58, p = 0.016; sham-TENS: 0.72, p = 0.460). There were no further significant group x intervention interactions (p > 0.05). Conclusions: A single-dose patellar tendon isometric exercise protocol did not have acute effects on landing biomechanics or pain levels in male athletes with patellar tendinopathy or asymptomatic patellar tendon pathology. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Pietrosimone, Laura S.] Duke Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped Surg, Phys Therapy Div, 311 Trent Dr, Durham, NC 27710 USA; [Blackburn, J. Troy; Wikstrom, Erik A.; Padua, Darin A.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Blackburn, J. Troy; Berkoff, David J.; Padua, Darin A.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Orthoped, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Docking, Sean, I; Cook, Jill] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sports & Exercise Res Ctr, Bundooram, Australia; [Pietrosimone, Laura S.] Duke Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped Surg, Phys Therapy Div, 311 Trent Dr, Durham, NC 27710 USA								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200022	49	Article; Article		
J	Beddows, Tom P. A.; van Klij, Pim; Agricola, Rintje; Tak, Igor J. R.; Piscaer, Tom; Verhaar, Jan A. N.; Weir, Adam								Normal values for hip muscle strength and range of motion in elite, sub-elite and amateur male field hockey players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				169	176		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.014			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: To determine normal values for hip strength and range of motion (ROM) of elite, sub-elite and amateur male field hockey players and to examine the effect of age, leg dominance, playing position, playing level and non-time-loss groin pain on hip strength and ROM. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Physical testing took place at field hockey clubs. Participants: Male field hockey players competing in the three highest Dutch field hockey leagues (n = 104). Main outcome measures: Eccentric adduction, eccentric abduction, adductor squeeze strength, adduction/abduction ratio, internal rotation, external rotation and bent knee fall out (BKFO). Results: Strength and ROM values (mean standard deviation) were: adduction = 2.8 +/- 0.4 Nm/kg, abduction = 2.6 +/- 0.4 Nm/kg, adduction/abduction ratio = 1.1 +/- 0.2, squeeze test = 4.5 +/- 0.8 N/kg, internal rotation = 34 degrees +/- 11 degrees, external rotation = 47 degrees +/- 9 degrees, BKFO = 15 +/- 4 cm. Age, leg dominance, playing position, playing level and non-time-loss groin pain had no effect on these profiles. Conclusions: Normal values were established for hip strength and ROM of male field hockey players and showed to be independent of age, leg dominance, playing position, playing level and non-time-loss groin pain. (c) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).		[Beddows, Tom P. A.; van Klij, Pim; Agricola, Rintje; Piscaer, Tom; Verhaar, Jan A. N.; Weir, Adam] Erasmus MC, Orthopaed Surg, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Tak, Igor J. R.] Physiotherapy Utrecht Oost, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Weir, Adam] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Weir, Adam] Sport Med & Exercise Clin Haarlem, Haarlem, Netherlands; [Beddows, Tom P. A.] Erasmus MC, Orthopaed Surg, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Beddows, Tom P. A.] Erasmus MC, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Postbus 2040, NL-3000 CA Rotterdam, Netherlands								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200021	27	Article; Article		
J	Hanzlikova, Ivana; Hebert-Losier, Kim								Landing Error Scoring System scores change with knowledge of scoring criteria and prior performance								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				155	161		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.09.004			NOV 2020	2020	Objective: To examine if the knowledge of scoring criteria and prior performance influence Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) outcomes. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Thirty individuals. Main outcome measures: The LESS was tested at Baseline and one week later under two conditions: Pre and Post information. For the Post condition, LESS items were explained to participants, as were their individual Baseline scores. Mean LESS scores and number of individuals categorized at high and low risk were compared between Pre and Post using paired t-tests and McNemar's tests, respectively. McNemar's tests were also used to compare proportions of specific LESS errors between Pre and Post conditions. Results: Mean LESS Post scores (4.7 +/- 1.2 errors) were significantly lower than Pre scores (6.6 +/- 2.0 errors, p < 0.001) as was the number of individuals at high risk (25 vs 10 participants, p < 0.001). A significantly lower proportion of participants scored an error for the joint displacement item of LESS Post compared to Pre condition (p < 0.001). Conclusion: When using the LESS, it is important that tested individuals have no knowledge of scoring criteria or previous errors for a valid assessment of innate jump-landing movement patterns and injury risk. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hanzlikova, Ivana; Hebert-Losier, Kim] Univ Waikato, Adams Ctr High Performance, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Mt Maunganui, New Zealand; [Hanzlikova, Ivana] Univ Waikato, Adams Ctr High Performance, 52 Miro St, Mt Maunganui 3116, New Zealand								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200019	42	Article; Article		
J	Kobayashi, Takumi; Takabayashi, Tomoya; Kudo, Shintarou; Edama, Mutsuaki								The prevalence of chronic ankle instability and its relationship to foot arch characteristics in female collegiate athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				162	168		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.09.002			NOV 2020	2020	Objective: To determine the prevalence of chronic ankle instability (CAI) and to investigate its rela-tionship to the foot arch in collegiate female athletes by each sports event. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University setting. Participants: 138 collegiate female athletes. Main outcome measures: All subjects were asked about previous ankle sprains, and the arch height index (AHI) was calculated. Athletes with a previous sprain history were evaluated based on the criteria by the International Ankle Consortium (IAC), the severity of ankle instability (CAIT), and foot and ankle function (FAAM). The prevalence of CAI and the relationship between the AHI and ankle instability were analyzed by each sports event. Results: Of 106 athletes with a previous ankle sprain, 10 (9.4%) met the IAC criteria below the cut-off value of the CAIT, and only 1 athlete (0.9%) was below the FAAM cut-off value. The AHI was not significantly different in athletes with CAI. The AHI was significantly lower in swimmers than in track and field (sprint) athletes. Conclusion: Most female athletes with CAI were aware of the severity of ankle instability, but they did not feel dysfunction of the ankle during sports. Additionally, the AHI may depend on the characteristics of sports events. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kobayashi, Takumi] Hokkaido Chitose Coll Rehabil, Dept Rehabil, Chitose, Hokkaido, Japan; [Takabayashi, Tomoya; Edama, Mutsuaki] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Kudo, Shintarou] Morinomiya Univ Med Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Osaka, Japan; [Kobayashi, Takumi] Hokkaido Chitose Coll Rehabil, 2-10 Satomi, Chitose, Hokkaido 0660055, Japan								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200020	22	Article; Article		
J	Schwab, Laura M.; McGhee, Deirdre; Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich; Mendis, M. Dilani; Hides, Julie								Pre-season screening of the upper body and trunk in Australian football players: A prospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				120	130		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.013			NOV 2020	2020	Objective: To determine whether screening tests of upper body, trunk region, and of whole-body func-tion could prospectively identify community AFL players who sustain in-season shoulder/head/neck injuries. Additionally, to present screening test reference values. Design: Prospective cohort; Setting: Community sport; Participants: 142 male community AFL players (range 15-37 years). Main outcome measures: (i) isometric shoulder external and internal rotation (ER/IR) strength; (ii) upper body combined elevation functional ROM; (iii/iv) whole-body functional jump ROM; (v) static thoracic spine angle; (vi) cervical joint proprioception, and (vii) trunk muscle size and function. Results were compared among players with (n = 21) and without (n = 121) an in-season shoulder, head, or neck injury. ROC analysis and odds ratios were used to determine the predictive values. Results: Two screening tests predicted an in-season shoulder, head, or neck injury; dominant and non dominant isometric ER strength (AUC 0.629, 95%CI 0.51-0.74; optimal cut point 182 N and AUC 0.619, 95%CI 0.50-0.74; optimal cut point 184 N, respectively). The adjusted odds ratio for the strongest predictor: dominant ER muscle strength was 6.02 (95%CI 1.8-19.9). Conclusion: Greater ER strength was associated with in-season shoulder/head/neck injuries in community AFL players; however, further research is required to determine the clinical significance of this finding. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Schwab, Laura M.; Mendis, M. Dilani; Hides, Julie] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [McGhee, Deirdre] Univ Wollongong, Sch Med, Wollongong, NSW, Australia; [Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich] Univ Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Schwab, Laura M.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Bldg N55, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200015	70	Article; Article		
J	Alawna, Motaz; Mohamed, Ayman A.								Short-term and long-term effects of ankle joint taping and bandaging on balance, proprioception and vertical jump among volleyball players with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				145	154		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.015			NOV 2020	2020	Objective: This study hypothesized that the prolonged use of taping during athletic activities produces more significant increases in proprioception, balance, and vertical jump among volleyball players with CAI. Design: A randomized controlled study. Participants: One-hundred participants with chronic ankle instability (CAI) participated in this study. Participants were distributed into 3-groups: taping group, bandaging group, and control group. Primary outcome measures: Proprioception (ankle range of motion absolute error), balance(Y-balance test), and vertical jump (vertical jump tester). Interventions: Three interventions were performed: ankle rigid taping, ankle bandaging, and placebo taping. The measurements were performed at baseline, immediately, 2-weeks and 2-months after support. Results: Immediately after supports, there were non-significant differences between all groups for proprioception, balance (P < .05). There was a significant difference between banding and control groups, and taping and control groups for the vertical jump (P < .05). After 2-weeks and 2-months, there were significant differences between bandaging and control groups, and taping and control groups for pro-prioception, balance, and vertical jump (P < .05). There were non-significant differences between taping and bandaging groups (P < .05) during all assessments. Conclusion: This study indicated that ankle taping and bandaging immediately improve vertical jump only; while they improve proprioception, balance, and vertical jump after 2-weeks and 2-months. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Alawna, Motaz; Mohamed, Ayman A.] Istanbul Gelisim Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Istanbul, Turkey; [Alawna, Motaz] Arab Amer Univ, Fac Allied Med Sci, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Jenin, Palestine; [Alawna, Motaz] Istanbul Gelisim Univ, Block,Room 507,J Kom Er Hakan Oner Sk 1, TR-34310 Istanbul, Turkey								37							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200018	48	Article; Article		
J	Bagley, Morgan Cooper; Harper, Sara A.; McDaniel, John; Custer, Lisa								Single leg aerobic capacity and strength in individuals with surgically repaired anterior cruciate ligaments								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				131	136		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.013			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: Compare single-leg aerobic capacity and strength differences between the surgically repaired ACL leg (injured) and the uninjured leg. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Eight participants (5 female, 3 male, age = 23 +/- 3.5 y, mass = 72.3 +/- 17.3 kg, height = 169.7 +/- 9.4 cm) that returned to play from ACL surgery between six and 18 months. Main outcome measures: Participants performed an aerobically-based, single-leg cycling protocol to determine maximum oxygen consumption, ventilatory threshold, heart rate, rating of perceived exertion, and maximal watts cycled. Participants also performed isokinetic knee flexion and extension on a dynamometer to assess peak torque, total work, work fatigue, and power. Results: There were no statistical differences in single-leg aerobic capacity or strength outcomes be-tween the injured and uninjured legs. Conclusions: Individuals who have had an ACL surgically repaired six to 18 months after return to play do not appear to have aerobic capacity or strength deficits between the injured leg and uninjured leg. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bagley, Morgan Cooper] Youngstown State Univ, Grad Studies Hlth & Rehabil Sci Dept, Youngstown, OH 44555 USA; [Harper, Sara A.] Utah State Univ, Kinesiol & Hlth Sci Dept, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Harper, Sara A.] Utah State Univ, Sorenson Legacy Fdn, Ctr Clin Excellence, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [McDaniel, John] Kent State Univ, Exercise Physiol Dept, Kent, OH 44242 USA; [Custer, Lisa] Towson Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Towson, MD USA; [Bagley, Morgan Cooper] Youngstown State Univ, Youngstown, OH 44555 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200016	39	Article; Article		
J	du Toit, Francois; Schwellnus, Martin; Wood, Paola; Swanevelder, Sonja; Killops, Jannelene; Jordaan, Esme								History of chronic disease is a novel intrinsic risk factor associated with gradual onset injuries in recreational road cyclists: A cross-sectional study in 21,824 cyclists - SAFER XIV								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				137	144		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.008			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: Risk factors related to Gradual onset injuries (GOIs) in cyclists need to be identified to enable effective injury prevention strategies. We aim to determine risk factors related to GOIs in cyclists participating in mass community-based events. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Cape Town Cycle Tour. Participants: Race entrants (n = 35,914) Main outcome measures: Completion of pre-race medical questionnaires. 21,824 consenting cyclists (60.8%) were studied. 617 cyclists reported GOIs. Selected risk factors associated with GOIs: demographics, training/racing history, chronic disease history, and medication use, were explored using multi-variate analyses. Results: Prevalence ratio (PR) of GOIs was similar in males and females, but higher in older age categories [>50 yrs vs. categories: <= 30yrs (PR = 1.6); 31 to <= 40yrs (PR = 1.5); 41 to <50yrs (PR = 1.4)] (p < 0.0001). Intrinsic risk factors associated with GOIs (adjusted for gender and age) were: 1) increased weekly training/racing frequency (PR = 1.1, p = 0.0003), 2) chronic disease history [cardiovascular disease symptoms (PR = 2.3, p = 0.0026), respiratory disease (PR = 1.6, p < 0.0001), nervous system/psychiatric disease (PR = 1.5, p = 0.0082)], and 3) history of analgesic/anti-inflammatory medication (AAIM) used before/during racing (PR = 5.1, p < 0.0001). Conclusion: Increased training frequency, chronic disease and AAIM use are risk factors associated with GOIs in cyclists. A novel finding is that in recreational cyclists, chronic disease history could be considered when managing GOIs and implementing prevention programs. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[du Toit, Francois; Wood, Paola] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Pretoria, South Africa; [du Toit, Francois; Wood, Paola] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Div Biokinet & Sports Sci, Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin; Killops, Jannelene] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr, Cape Town, South Africa; [Swanevelder, Sonja; Jordaan, Esme] South African Med Res Council, Biostat Unit, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] Univ Western Cape, Stat & Populat Studies Dept, Cape Town, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200017	36	Article; Article		
J	du Toit, Francois; Schwellnus, Martin; Wood, Paola; Swanevelder, Sonja; Killops, Jannelene; Jordaan, Esme								Epidemiology, clinical characteristics and severity of gradual onset injuries in recreational road cyclists: A cross-sectional study in 21,824 cyclists - SAFER XIII								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				113	119		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.006			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: Prevalence, clinical characteristics and severity of gradual onset injuries (GOIs) in cyclists are poorly documented. We determine the prevalence, anatomical regions/sites affected and severity of GOIs among entrants in a community-based mass participation event. Design: Cross-sectional study; Setting: Cape Town Cycle Tour; Participants: Race entrants. Main outcome measures: Of 35,914 entrants, 27,349 completed pre-race medical questionnaires. We studied 21,824 consenting cyclists (60.8% of entrants). Crude lifetime prevalence, retrospective annual incidence, anatomical region/sites, specific GOI, tissue type and GOI severity is reported. Results: The lifetime prevalence of GOIs was 2.8%, with an annual incidence of 2.5%. More common anatomical regions affected by GOIs were lower limb (43.4%), upper limb (19.8%), and lower back (11.5%). The knee (26.3%), shoulder (13%), and lower back (11.5%) regions were mostly affected. The most com-mon GOI was anterior knee pain (14.2%). Of the GOIs, 55% were in soft tissue. 50% of cyclists reported symptom duration >12 months, and 37.3% of GOIs were severe enough to reduce/prevent cycling. Conclusion: 2.5% recreational cyclists report a GOI annually. >50% of GOIs affect the knee, lower back and shoulder. GOIs negatively affect cycling. Risk factors related to GOIs in cyclists need to be determined to develop and implement prevention programs. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[du Toit, Francois; Wood, Paola] Univ Pretoria, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Pretoria, South Africa; [du Toit, Francois; Wood, Paola] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Div Biokinet & Sports Sci, Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin; Killops, Jannelene] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr, Cape Town, South Africa; [Swanevelder, Sonja; Jordaan, Esme] South African Med Res Council, Biostat Unit, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] Univ Western Cape, Stat & Populat Studies Dept, Cape Town, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sport Exercise Med & Lifestyle Inst SEMLI, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200014	33	Article; Article		
J	Ness, Brandon M.; Albright, Jon; Ehlers, Barry; Glasoe, Taylor; Selby, Shanna; Zimney, Kory; Kernozek, Thomas								The influence of center line width during the crossover hop test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				63	69		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.005			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: To assess the influence of center line width on crossover hop for distance test (XHOP) performance. Design: Repeated measures. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: 33 physically active females without history of a ligamentous knee injury (age: 22.5 +/- 2.3 years). Main outcome measures: Hop distance was measured during four XHOP conditions with variations in center line width: 2.54 cm (narrow), 15 cm (standard), 12.5% of the participants' height (HT1), and 25% of the participants' height (HT2). A repeated measures ANOVA was used to evaluate differences in hop distance for XHOP condition (narrow, standard, HT1, and HT2). Results: Differences in hop distance were shown on XHOP condition (p < 0.001). Post hoc tests identified differences in hop distance between narrow and HT2 (p < 0.001, Effect size (ES) = 0.78), standard and HT2 (p < 0.001, ES = 0.57), and HT1 and HT2 (p < 0.001, ES = 0.58) conditions, respectively. Conclusions: No differences in hop distance were identified between narrow and standard center line width XHOP conditions in healthy females. Decreased hop distance was shown when center line width was normalized to 25% of participant height in comparison to all other XHOP conditions, with medium effect sizes. This study highlights hop distance outcomes based on different XHOP center line widths, normalizing the XHOP according to height, and potential implications for frontal plane knee loading during the XHOP in healthy individuals. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ness, Brandon M.; Albright, Jon; Ehlers, Barry; Glasoe, Taylor; Selby, Shanna; Zimney, Kory] Univ South Dakota, Dept Phys Therapy, 414 E Clark St, Vermillion, SD 57069 USA; [Ness, Brandon M.] Tufts Univ, Phys Therapy Program, Dept Publ Hlth & Community Med, Sch Med, 136 Harrison Ave, Boston, MA 02111 USA; [Kernozek, Thomas] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Hlth Profess, Phys Therapy Program, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, 1725 State St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Ness, Brandon M.] Tufts Univ, Phys Therapy Program, Dept Publ Hlth & Community Med, Sch Med, 136 Harrison Ave, Boston, MA 02111 USA								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200008	44	Article; Article		
J	Tassignon, Bruno; Verschueren, Jo; De Wachter, Jonas; Maricot, Alexandre; De Pauw, Kevin; Verhagen, Evert; Meeusen, Romain								Test-retest, intra- and inter-rater reliability of the reactive balance test in healthy recreational athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				47	53		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.010			NOV 2020	2020	Objective: The reactive balance test (RBT) is a recently developed neurocognitive balance test. The aim of this study was to determine test-retest, intraand inter-rater reliability of the RBT in healthy recreational athletes. Design: Reliability study design. Setting: Primary. Participants: Twenty-one volunteers (age = 22 +/- 1 years, height = 175 +/- 9 cm, weight = 69 +/- 7 kg) participated. Interventions: The two experimental trials were separated by an average of 33 15 days. During experimental trials participants performed the Y-balance test (to determine maximal reach distances), and RBT once. Main outcome measures: Visuomotor response time and accuracy. Test-retest, intraand inter-rater reliability were estimated for both these RBT outcome measures. Results: Excellent intraand inter-rater reliability was observed for visuomotor response time and accuracy. Test-retest reliability for visuomotor response time was considered good, while moderate test retest reliability was found for accuracy. Conclusions: Our results indicate that overall test-retest, intraand inter-rater reliability of the RBT was moderate to excellent. Thus, the RBT possesses acceptable reliability to use in group level analyses. Future research should further determine the clinimetric properties of the RBT in specific populations and research the RBT along the sport injury continuum. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Tassignon, Bruno; Verschueren, Jo; De Wachter, Jonas; Maricot, Alexandre; De Pauw, Kevin; Meeusen, Romain] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Physiol & Sports Physiotherapy Res Grp, Pleinlaan 2, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium; [De Pauw, Kevin; Meeusen, Romain] Vrije Univ Brussel, Strateg Res Program Exercise & Brain Hlth & Dis A, Brussels, Belgium; [Verhagen, Evert] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Amsterdam Movement Sci,Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Meeusen, Romain] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Physiol & Sports Physiotherapy Res Grp, Pleinlaan 2, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200006	31	Article; Article		
J	Clark, D.; Goodwin, P. C.								Rehabilitation of Watson-Jones proximal tibial avulsion injury in elite academy level football: A report of two separate cases in one season								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				23	29		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.07.001			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: Watson-Jones proximal tibial avulsion injuries occur more frequently in athletic and muscular adolescent males. However, they are rare and therefore infrequently described in the medical literature. Two of these injuries occurred in a Category 1 football academy in the same season within a six-month period. We have described the cases with the hope of better informing other clinicians should they encounter this injury. Methods: This case report describes the injury mechanism, surgical management and rehabilitation for the two cases [Players A and B]. Outcomes measures including player speed, agility and power were compared with scores from players of the same age group at the time of injury in the Premier League academies. Risk factors are also discussed. Results: Both players were managed surgically, initially. Player B had the surgical fixation removed during rehabilitation. Player A still has the fixation in situ. Post-surgery, player A returned to full play at thirty-two weeks and thirty-eight weeks for player B. No critical incidents occurred during rehabilitation. Conclusion: Watson-Jones avulsion fractures, although rare, can be managed successfully. Athletes can achieve a successful return to play at their previous level. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Clark, D.] Manchester City Football Club, 400 Ashton New Rd, Manchester M11 4TQ, Lancs, England; [Goodwin, P. C.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, 53 Bonsall St, Manchester M15 6GX, Lancs, England; [Goodwin, P. C.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, 53 Bonsall St, Manchester M15 6GX, Lancs, England								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200004	38	Article; Article		
J	Linton, Linda; Valentin, Stephanie								Running coaches and running group leaders' engagement with, and beliefs and perceived barriers to prehabilitation and injury prevention strategies for runners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				54	62		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.08.004			NOV 2020	2020	Objectives: To identify which pre-and post-run injury risk reduction activities and prehabilitation (prehab) strategies Coaches and Running Group Leaders (Coaches/RGLs) engage in with runners; to explore their beliefs on why runners get injured; to identify Coaches/RGLs confidence providing injury prevention activities, and what they believe are effective for reducing risk of injury; to identify their perceived barriers to including prehab during running coaching/training. Design: Survey; Participants: UK Coaches/RGLs (N 1/4 100) Outcome measures: Online questionnaire with open, closed and Likert scale questions. Results: Most Coaches/RGLs performed active warm-ups (97%), cool-downs (94%),gave injury prevention advice (91%), and advice on recovery strategies (84%) during training. Fewer coaches/RGLs incorporated prehab (67%). Although they collectively exhibited a wide range of knowledge, individually there was less consistency and confidence providing this. Prehab was rated as very important for injury risk reduction, with supervision recommended to facilitate runner engagement. Coaches/RGLs found conflicting advice, time, environment, and resistance from runners as barriers to incorporating prehab into training. Conclusion: Coaches/RGLs believe prehab is important for runners however lack of confidence and knowledge appeared to limit the wider inclusion of prehab with runners. Coaches/RGLs welcomed reputable information on prehab from evidence-based sources. This may assist in reducing injury. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Linton, Linda] Univ Edinburgh, Fas Sport & Exercise Med Clin, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Valentin, Stephanie] Univ West Scotland, Inst Clin Exercise & Hlth Sci, Stevenson Pl, Blantyre, Scotland; [Linton, Linda] Univ Edinburgh, Sport & Exercise, FASIC Sport & Exercise Med Clin, 46 Pleasance, Edinburgh EH9 8TJ, Midlothian, Scotland								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200007	36	Article; Article		
J	Rosado-Velazquez, Daniel; Gestoso-Campos, Manuel; Medina-Porqueres, Ivan								Adductor longus injury after electromechanical self-treatment: A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				46				7	13		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.07.007			NOV 2020	2020	Objective: This case report illustrates an unusual cause of hip adductor muscle injury due to over-enthusiastic self-treatment of the previously overloaded adductor muscles. Also, post-injury therapeutic objectives and intervention to facilitate rapid participation in sports after the described process are provided. Case description: A 27-year old male, professional soccer player presented with hip adductors pain and impairment due to electromechanical self-treatment of the affected area. He was evaluated using hip strength assessments, self-report, ultrasonography (US), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) until complete functional recovery had occurred. Along with clinical presentation, diagnostic imaging showed evidence of an isolated injury to the adductor longus muscle. A well-structured rehabilitation and readaptation program was followed in order to ensure early recovery and optimal functional outcome. Outcomes: The athlete was able to participate in a full soccer training session without any limitation 18 days after his self-treatment session. The patient returned to his previous level of performance by 3rd week post-injury. Conclusion: To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of muscle strain due to overenthusiasthic therapy. Although this is a rare complication of self-treatment procedures, patients and therapists should be aware of this risk in order to prevent and rapidly identify the lesion. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rosado-Velazquez, Daniel; Gestoso-Campos, Manuel; Medina-Porqueres, Ivan] Malaga Football Club Med Serv, Malaga, Spain; [Medina-Porqueres, Ivan] Univ Malaga, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Malaga, Spain; [Medina-Porqueres, Ivan] Arquitecto Francisco Penalosa St, Malaga 29010, Spain								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000594531200002	41	Article; Article		
J	Chiu, Loren Z. F.; vonGaza, Gabriella L.								Analysis of different volleyballs' collision mechanics across a range of incident velocities								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	6			817	830		10.1080/14763141.2018.1535618			NOV 1 2020	2020	Volleyball involves low-to-high-velocity collisions between the ball and a player. This research examined the kinematics, energetics and impact forces during collisions of different volleyballs across a range of incident velocities. Seven volleyball types were projected downwards between 8 and 30 m/s, impacting on a force platform. Recorded video was digitised and used to calculate incident and rebound velocities, and kinetic energy lost. Peak impact force was determined from the force platform. All ball types had a linear relation between incident and rebound velocities. Four balls had lower while three balls had higher rebound velocities. The slope of this relation varied across ball types. These data indicate that each volleyball type has unique behaviour during collisions; how a player should interact with a ball will depend on the ball type and the incident velocity. The kinetic energy lost was unrelated to peak impact force; of the two ball types with the highest peak impact force, one had the highest and the other the lowest kinetic energy lost. The varying combinations of kinetic energy lost and peak impact force may be useful to examine the role of each of these variables in collision injuries.		[Chiu, Loren Z. F.; vonGaza, Gabriella L.] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Chiu, Loren Z. F.] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, Edmonton, AB, Canada								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000576223500008	21	Article; Article		
J	Sheerin, Kelly R.; Besier, Thor F.; Reid, Duncan								The influence of running velocity on resultant tibial acceleration in runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	6			750	760		10.1080/14763141.2018.1546890			NOV 1 2020	2020	Tibial acceleration is a surrogate measure for impact loading and might be useful for identifying lower limb fatigue injury in runners. The resultant tibial acceleration calculated from all three axes of a triaxial accelerometer provides a single metric that is independent of the sensor orientation. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between resultant tibial acceleration and running velocity, and to establish a normative database of tibial acceleration profiles. Triaxial accelerometers were attached to the distal tibiae of 85 runners before they ran on a treadmill for 2 min each, at speeds of 2.7, 3.0, 3.3, and 3.7 m/s. Differences in resultant tibial acceleration were calculated using a one-way ANOVA, and the relationship between tibial acceleration and velocity was determined using a Pearson correlation coefficient and a multiple linear regression analysis. Tibial acceleration increased with higher velocities, with an average increase of 3.8 g (38%) between the slowest and fastest speeds. A moderate correlation was demonstrated between tibial acceleration and running velocity, and 19% of tibial acceleration was explained by velocity. While velocity influences tibial acceleration, individual variances to this relationship exist, highlighting the need for a personalised approach to understanding the response of each runner.		[Sheerin, Kelly R.; Besier, Thor F.; Reid, Duncan] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Sport & Recreat, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Besier, Thor F.] Univ Auckland, Auckland Bioengn Inst, Dept Engn Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Sheerin, Kelly R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Sport & Recreat, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand								33							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000595624000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Knudson, Duane								Top cited research over fifteen years in<i>Sports Biomechanics</i>								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	6			808	816		10.1080/14763141.2018.1518478			NOV 1 2020	2020	This study tested the hypothesis of the strong scholar perception of the journalSports Biomechanicswith a bibliometric analysis of top-cited articles. Three major databases,Google Scholar, Scopus and Web of Science, were searched for the most cited articles published inSports Biomechanicsfor the first 15 years (2002-2016) of publication. The top 20 (4%) cited articles from each database were qualitatively analysed for research themes and descriptive statistics calculated for citations and citation rates. The top-cited articles published inSports Biomechanicshad high citation rates and included several citation classics, indicating strong contributions to the advancement of knowledge in applied biomechanics and beyond. The results support previous high ratings of the journal by sport and exercise biomechanics scholars and refute the biased and lower ranking based on theWeb of ScienceImpact Factor. There was moderate (40-70%) agreement on the top 20 cited articles between the three databases due to differences in indexing and temporal coverage.		[Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX USA; [Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX USA								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000576223500007	42	Article; Article		
J	Mueske, Nicole M.; Patel, Akash R.; Pace, J. Lee; Zaslow, Tracy L.; VandenBerg, Curtis D.; Katzel, Mia J.; Edison, Bianca R.; Wren, Tishya A. L.								Improvements in landing biomechanics following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction in adolescent athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	6			738	749		10.1080/14763141.2018.1510539			NOV 1 2020	2020	Motion analysis offers objective insight into biomechanics, rehabilitation progress and return to sport readiness. This study examined changes in three-dimensional movement patterns during drop jump landing between early and late stages of rehabilitation in adolescent athletes following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Twenty-four athletes (58% female; mean age 15.4 years, SD 1.2) with unilateral ACLR underwent motion analysis testing 3-6 months and again 6-10 months post-operatively. Kinematics and kinetics were compared between visits and between limbs using repeated measures ANOVA. The operative side exhibited lower vertical ground reaction force, less energy absorption and lower sagittal external moments at the knee and ankle, and lower peak dorsiflexion angles compared with the non-operative side regardless of visit. Between visits, hip and knee flexion increased bilaterally, as well as hip flexion moments and energy absorption. During early rehabilitation following ACLR, adolescent athletes reduced flexion and loading of the knee and ankle on their operative limb. Motion and loading increased over time, particularly at the hip, but remained reduced at the knee and ankle 6-10 months post-operatively.		[Mueske, Nicole M.; Patel, Akash R.; Pace, J. Lee; Zaslow, Tracy L.; VandenBerg, Curtis D.; Katzel, Mia J.; Edison, Bianca R.; Wren, Tishya A. L.] Childrens Hosp Los Angeles, Childrens Orthopaed Ctr, Los Angeles, CA 90027 USA; [Pace, J. Lee; Zaslow, Tracy L.; VandenBerg, Curtis D.; Edison, Bianca R.] Univ Southern Calif, Keck Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Los Angeles, CA 90007 USA; [Wren, Tishya A. L.] Univ Southern Calif, Keck Sch Med, Dept Radiol, Los Angeles, CA 90007 USA; [Wren, Tishya A. L.] Univ Southern Calif, Viterbi Sch Engn, Dept Biomed Engn, Los Angeles, CA 90007 USA; [Mueske, Nicole M.] Childrens Hosp Los Angeles, Childrens Orthopaed Ctr, Los Angeles, CA 90027 USA								24							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000576223500003	33	Article; Article		
J	Bezerra, Ewertton S.; Schoenfeld, Brad J.; Paz, Gabriel; Farias, Deborah de Araujo; Sakugawa, Raphael L.; Vieira, Iago; Rossato, Mateus; Miranda, Humberto								Effect of exercise order with barbell and machine modalities on upper body volume load and myoelectric activity								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	6			778	791		10.1080/14763141.2018.1515980			NOV 1 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of exercise order on volume load (VL) and myoelectric activation (EMG) during the bench press (BP), military press (MP) and close-grip bench press (CGBP) exercises executed with a barbell and Smith machine. Twelve men experienced in resistance training performed four different exercise sessions in randomised order. Each session consisted of four sets of a given exercise order: O1 = CGBP + MP + BP with barbell; O2 = inverse O1 with barbell, O3 = same O1 with Smith Machine; O4 = same O2 with Smith machine. EMG was assessed for the Clavicular headpectoralis major(PMC), anteriordeltoid(AD),triceps brachiilong head (TBLH) andbiceps brachii(BB). Results showed that VL in BP was affected by exercise order, independent of the mode (p < 0.05). However, the CGBP showed higher VL in O1. Moreover, when the BP was positioned last in the sequence (O1 and O3), myoelectric activity was higher for PMC, AD and TBLH (p < 0.05). Findings were similar in the CGBP (PMC and TBLH), but for the AD (Smith machine > barbell,p < 0.05). Therefore, it appears that the order and modes of exercises influence both volume load and myoelectric activation patterns during multiple set of resistance training.		[Bezerra, Ewertton S.; Farias, Deborah de Araujo; Vieira, Iago; Rossato, Mateus] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Bezerra, Ewertton S.; Sakugawa, Raphael L.; Rossato, Mateus] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY USA; [Paz, Gabriel; Farias, Deborah de Araujo; Miranda, Humberto] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Bezerra, Ewertton S.] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Bezerra, Ewertton S.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000576223500005	22	Article; Article		
J	Judson, Laura J.; Churchill, Sarah M.; Barnes, Andrew; Stone, Joseph A.; Brookes, Ian G. A.; Wheat, Jon								Measurement of bend sprinting kinematics with three-dimensional motion capture: a test-retest reliability study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	6			761	777		10.1080/14763141.2018.1515979			NOV 1 2020	2020	Sprint velocity decreases on the bend when compared with the straight, therefore understanding technique during bend sprinting could have important implications for aiding race performance. Few bend sprinting studies have used optoelectronic cameras to investigate kinematic variables. Limited published evidence regarding the reliability of marker sets in conditions representative of elite bend sprinting makes model selection difficult. Therefore, a test-retest protocol was conducted to establish the reliability and minimum detectable difference of a lower limb and trunk marker set during bend sprinting (radius: 36.5 m). Six participants completed five, 60 m trials at maximum effort, with data collected at 38-45 m. This was repeated 2-7 days later. Spatio-temporal (e.g., contact time) and kinematic variables (e.g., peak joint angles) were evaluated. Intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) were used to determine the between- and within-day reliability. Between-day reliability (ICC 3,k) was fair to excellent for all variables. Compared to between-day, within-day reliability demonstrated stronger agreement for the majority of variables. Thus, same-day data collection is preferable. It has been established that the marker set is reliable for future use. In addition, the minimal detectable difference was calculated which serves as useful reference for future research in bend sprinting		[Judson, Laura J.; Churchill, Sarah M.; Barnes, Andrew; Stone, Joseph A.; Brookes, Ian G. A.; Wheat, Jon] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Judson, Laura J.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sports Engn Res, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Judson, Laura J.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Judson, Laura J.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sports Engn Res, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000576223500004	43	Article; Article		
J	Guan, Jing; Tena, J. D.								Does Sport Affect Health and Well-Being or Is It the Other Way Around? A Note on Reverse-Causality in Empirical Applications								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	2			218	226	1527002520967400	10.1177/1527002520967400			FEB 2021	2021	Estimating the causal impact of sport or physical activity on health and well-being is an issue of great relevance in the sport and health literature. The increasing availability of individual level data has encouraged this interest. However, this analysis requires dealing with two types of simultaneity problem: (1) between exercise and response variables; and (2) across the different response variables. This note discusses how the previous literature has dealt with these two questions with particular attention paid to the use of seemingly aseptic econometric models proposed by some recent empirical papers. Regardless of the approach, identification necessarily requires the use of untestable hypotheses. We provide some recommendations based on analyzing the robustness of the estimation results to changes in the adopted identification assumptions.		[Guan, Jing] Beijing Technol & Business Univ, Sch Econ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Tena, J. D.] Univ Liverpool, Management Sch, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Tena, J. D.] CRENoS, Sassari, Italy; [Tena, J. D.] Univ Sassari, Sassari, Italy; [Tena, J. D.] Univ Liverpool, Chatham St, Liverpool L19 7ZH, Merseyside, England								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000598420800001	20	Article; Article		
J	Cnen, Tung-Wei; Chiu, Yi-Chuan; Hsu, Yawen								Perception of social support provided by coaches, optimism/pessimism, and psychological well-being: Gender differences and mediating effect models								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			272	280	1747954120968649	10.1177/1747954120968649			APR 2021	2021	This study explored whether gender differences exist in social support, optimism/pessimism, and psychological well-being among university student athletes and examined the relationship among these three variables and the mediating effect of optimism/pessimism. A total of 322 university student athletes (159 men and 163 women) who were Division 1 athletes participated in this study. The research instruments used in this study comprised the revised Athletes' Received Support Questionnaire, the Life Orientation Test, and the Psychological Well-Being Scale. The results demonstrated the influence of gender differences for some variables. Regarding pessimistic tendency and autonomy (a dimension of the Psychological Well-Being Scale), the average scores of men were significantly higher than those of women. Regarding the other three dimensions of the Psychological Well-Being Scale (purpose in life, positive relationships with others, and personal growth), the average scores were higher for women than for men. Moreover, significant positive correlations were observed among social support provided by coaches, optimism, and psychological well-being. Optimism mediated the relationship between social support and psychological well-being, and pessimism was negatively correlated with psychological well-being; however, the mediating path was not significant. Finally, suggestions for future research and practical implications are proposed for researchers, educators, and supervisors in the field of sports.		[Cnen, Tung-Wei] Natl Taipei Univ Technol, Phys Educ Off, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chiu, Yi-Chuan] Lunghwa Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Tourism & Leisure, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Hsu, Yawen] Natl Chiayi Univ, Dept Phys Educ Hlth & Recreat, 85 Wenlong Village, Chiayi 621, Taiwan; [Hsu, Yawen] Natl Chiayi Univ, Dept Phys Educ Hlth & Recreat, 85 Wenlong Village, Chiayi 621, Taiwan								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000598507700001	52	Article; Article		
J	Ryan, Megan R.; Napier, Christopher; Greenwood, Daniel; Paquette, Max R.								Comparison of different measures to monitor week-to-week changes in training load in high school runners								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			370	379	1747954120970305	10.1177/1747954120970305			APR 2021	2021	Training load is commonly used to monitor training stress and is the product of external and internal physiological loads experienced by an athlete. With emerging wearable technology, it is possible to evolve existing external load measurement from duration or distance to runner-specific biomechanical data, which when combined with existing measures of internal load such as session rating of perceived exertion (sRPE), may improve the quantification of training stress. This study compared week-to-week changes in training duration with different training loads obtained from common and more individualized measures of external load. The training of nine male high school cross-country runners from the same team undertaking the same training program was monitored for two consecutive weeks. This two-week cycle included a "coach-prescribed" low and high training load week. Training loads were calculated with sRPE and external load measures including: duration (minutes), Step Count, "Bone Stimulus" (IMeasureU), and cumulative vertical force. Weekly distances (in miles) were also measured. Between-week percent change (%Delta) was compared among training loads and minutes using paired t-tests and Cohen's d effect size. Different %Delta were found between sRPExMinutes (%Delta=65 +/- 25%; p = 0.002, d = 1.83), sRPExStep Count (%Delta=66 +/- 31%; p = 0.006, d = 2.06), sRPExForce (%Delta=66 +/- 29%; p = 0.002, d = 1.91), and miles (%Delta=28 +/- 13%; p = 0.019, d = 0.71) compared to minutes (%Delta=20 +/- 8%). These findings highlight that only using weekly volume can greatly misrepresent changes in training stress in runners. We therefore encourage coaches and practitioners to consider training monitoring approaches beyond just weekly distance or duration. Simple measures of training load that include duration and sRPE might be sufficient.		[Ryan, Megan R.; Greenwood, Daniel; Paquette, Max R.] Univ Memphis, Human Performance Ctr, Coll Hlth Sci, Memphis, TN 38152 USA; [Napier, Christopher] Simon Fraser Univ, Sch Mechatron Syst Engn, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Napier, Christopher] Simon Fraser Univ, Sch Engn Sci, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Napier, Christopher] Univ British Columbia, Dept Phys Therapy, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Paquette, Max R.] Univ Memphis, 171b Elma Roane Fieldhouse, Memphis, TN 38104 USA								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000598424300001	38	Article; Article		
J	Elmore, Ryan; Urbaczewski, Andrew								Loss Aversion in Professional Golf								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	2			202	217	1527002520967403	10.1177/1527002520967403			FEB 2021	2021	We examine loss aversion in the context of professional golf at US Open tournaments. In particular, we analyze data from two courses, Pebble Beach Golf Links and Oakmont Country Club, where they have hosted six and five US Opens, respectively. The United States Golf Association changed the par rating of a hole on each course from a par 5 to a par 4, without fundamentally altering the hole, in each US Open hosted by these courses since 2000. In this natural experimental setting, we find evidence of significant loss-aversive behavior in the world's best golfers based solely on par rating.		[Elmore, Ryan; Urbaczewski, Andrew] Univ Denver, Dept Business Informat & Analyt, Daniels Coll Business, Denver, CO 80208 USA; [Urbaczewski, Andrew] US Air Force Acad, Dept Management, Denver, CO USA; [Elmore, Ryan] Univ Denver, Dept Business Informat & Analyt, Daniels Coll Business, Denver, CO 80208 USA								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000598408400001	22	Article; Article		
J	Kipp, Kristof; Cunanan, Aaron J.; Warmenhoven, John								Bivariate functional principal component analysis of barbell trajectories during the snatch								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	1			58	68		10.1080/14763141.2020.1820074			JAN 2 2024	2024	The purpose of this study was to use bivariate functional principal components analysis (bfPCA) to quantify patterns in barbell trajectories during the snatch and to investigate whether these patterns correlate with weightlifting performance and biomechanical characteristics that characterise weightlifting technique. A motion capture system was used to record three-dimensional barbell trajectories as six weightlifters performed three snatch lifts during a weightlifting competition. Horizontal and vertical barbell positions of all lifts were used as input to a bfPCA. Weightlifting performance was quantified through the ratio of barbell mass/body-mass, whereas biomechanical variables were quantified through peak vertical barbell velocity and acceleration. The bfPCA extracted barbell trajectory patterns related to variations in general forward/backward motion (pattern 1), peak height (pattern 2), and crossing of the vertical reference line during the first pull (pattern 3). Spearman rank correlations showed that pattern 1 correlated positively with weightlifting performance and negatively with peak barbell velocity and acceleration. The opposite results were found for pattern 3. Interpretation of the extracted barbell trajectory patterns and statistical results suggest that better weightlifting performances were characterised by snatch lifts that exhibited general backward shifts and limited forward motions during the first and second pull, regardless of peak heights.		[Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Program Exercise Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Cunanan, Aaron J.] San Francisco Giants, San Francisco, CA USA; [Warmenhoven, John] Australian Inst Sport, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Warmenhoven, John] Univ Sydney, Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Kipp, Kristof; Cunanan, Aaron J.; Warmenhoven, John] Boise State Univ, Boise, ID 83725 USA; [Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Program Exercise Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000584848400001	30	Article; Article		
J	Sakata, Hiroyuki; Hashizume, Satoru; Amma, Ryo; Hisano, Genki; Murata, Hiroto; Takemura, Hiroshi; Usui, Fumio; Hobara, Hiroaki								Anterior-posterior ground reaction forces across a range of running speeds in unilateral transfemoral amputees								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	1			69	80		10.1080/14763141.2020.1822434			JAN 2 2024	2024	As a fundamental motor pattern, the ability to run at a range of constant speeds is a prerequisite for participating in competitive games and recreational sports. However, it remains unclear how unilateral transfemoral amputees modulate anterior and posterior ground reaction force impulses (GRFIs) in order to maintain constant running speeds. The purpose of this study was to investigate anterior and posterior GRFIs across a wide range of constant running speeds in unilateral transfemoral amputees wearing a running-specific prosthesis. Eleven runners with unilateral transfemoral amputation ran on an instrumented treadmill at 5 different speeds (30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, and 70% of the average velocity of their 100-m personal records). Anterior-posterior ground reaction forces (GRFs) were measured at 1000 Hz over 14 consecutive steps. Impulse, magnitude, and duration of anterior and posterior GRFs were compared between the affected and unaffected limbs at each speed. The net anterior-posterior GRFI, reflecting the changes in horizontal running velocity, was consistently positive (propulsion) in the affected limb and negative (braking) in the unaffected limb at all speeds. Regardless of running speed, unilateral transfemoral amputees maintain constant running speeds not over each step, but over 2 consecutive steps (i.e., one stride).		[Sakata, Hiroyuki; Amma, Ryo; Hisano, Genki; Murata, Hiroto; Takemura, Hiroshi; Hobara, Hiroaki] Tokyo Univ Sci, Grad Sch Sci & Technol, Chiba, Japan; [Sakata, Hiroyuki; Amma, Ryo; Murata, Hiroto; Takemura, Hiroshi] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Artificial Intelligence Res Ctr, Tokyo, Japan; [Hashizume, Satoru] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan; [Hisano, Genki] Tokyo Inst Technol, Dept Syst & Control Engn, Tokyo, Japan; [Usui, Fumio] Tetsudou Kousaikai Fdn, Prosthet & Orthot Support Ctr, Tokyo, Japan; [Hobara, Hiroaki] Tokyo Univ Sci, Grad Sch Sci & Technol, Chiba, Japan								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000584664600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Seifert, Ludovic; Hacques, Guillaume; Rivet, Remi; Legreneur, Pierre								Assessment of fluency dynamics in climbing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	2			133	144		10.1080/14763141.2020.1830161			FEB 1 2024	2024	The aim of this study was to investigate the hold-by-hold climbing fluency dynamics by using an instrumented holds system that measured the contact time on each hold. Forty-four competitive climbers have been analysed in a regional lead climbing competition during a route composed of 41 instrumented holds on 11 m high artificial climbing wall and with a grade of difficulty 6b on the French scale (IRCRA reported scale: 13). After removing 10 climbers who fell before the top of the route, the 34 remaining climbers who completed the route were clustered according to their total contact time on each hold. The hierarchical cluster analysis distinguished four profiles of climbing fluency dynamics, on the basis of six 'crux' points, showing that the fastest climbers at the crux points were those with the shortest climbing time. This new instrumented-holds system appeared very innovative as it provides an instantaneous feedback to coaches regarding inter-limbs fluency and subsequent motor organisations.		[Seifert, Ludovic; Hacques, Guillaume] Univ Rouen Normandy, CETAPS EA3832, Fac Sport Sci, Mont St Aignan, France; [Rivet, Remi; Legreneur, Pierre] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon, Univ Lyon, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Biol, Villeurbanne, France; [Seifert, Ludovic] Univ Rouen Normandy, CETAPS EA3832, Fac Sport Sci, Mont St Aignan, France								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000586948500001	41	Article; Article		
J	Thomas, Christopher; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Comfort, Paul; Jones, Paul A.								Male and female soccer players exhibit different knee joint mechanics during pre-planned change of direction								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	1			118	131		10.1080/14763141.2020.1830160			JAN 2 2024	2024	Change of direction manoeuvres is important in soccer and associated with non-contact anterior cruciate ligament injury, yet it is not known how the mechanics differentiate between males and females during 180 degrees turns. Twenty-eight soccer players (14 males and 14 females) performed 180 degrees turns with ground reaction forces collected over penultimate and final contacts. A two-way (contact x limb) multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) were run to examine differences between contact (penultimate and final) or limb (dominant and non-dominant) for sagittal plane hip, knee and ankle peak angles and moments, and frontal plane knee abduction moments and angles between sexes. Average horizontal GRF was increased on the dominant limb, compared to non-dominant and for the final contact compared to the penultimate contact. Knee abduction angles were increased in females compared to males, while the opposite was true for knee abduction moments. Statistically significant differences were evident, with increases in peak vertical GRF, peak hip flexion angle, peak knee flexion angle, peak knee extensor moment, and peak ankle dorsiflexion angle observed in the penultimate contact compared to final contact. The results indicate the penultimate contact during turns helps reduce loading on the final contact, yet male and female soccer players exhibit different knee joint mechanics during pre-planned change of direction.		[Thomas, Christopher; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Comfort, Paul; Jones, Paul A.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Thomas, Christopher] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Greater Manches, England								17							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000584730800001	55	Article; Article		
J	Orser, Khyl; Agar-Newman, Dana J.; Tsai, Ming-Chang; Klimstra, Marc								The validity of the Push Band 2.0 to determine speed and power during progressively loaded squat jumps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	1			109	117		10.1080/14763141.2020.1829691			JAN 2 2024	2024	ABSTARCT The PUSH band 2.0 is a wearable technology used to measure mean and peak velocity and power in strength-based movements. The agreement between the PUSH band 2.0 and the criterion measure (force plates) during progressively loaded squat jumps was assessed. Fifteen participants performed 3 squat jumps at increasing loads. Linear regression and Bland-Altman plots assessed data simultaneously recorded from both devices. Mean velocity and power showed deviation from the identity line and an overestimation of 7.40% and 25%, respectively. Peak velocity and power showed an overestimation of 14% and underestimation of 6%, respectively. The results support the use of Push Band 2.0 to measure velocity during ballistic squat movements. However, errors in power measurement are greater than acceptable to support in-field use. While peak velocity maintains a consistent overestimation bias across various velocities, mean velocity error increases at higher velocities and can only be considered valid at slow velocities.		[Orser, Khyl; Agar-Newman, Dana J.; Klimstra, Marc] Univ Victoria, Exercise Phys & Hlth Educ, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Agar-Newman, Dana J.; Tsai, Ming-Chang; Klimstra, Marc] Canadian Sport Inst Pacific, Dept Biomech & Performance Anal, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Orser, Khyl] Univ Victoria, Exercise Phys & Hlth Educ, Victoria, BC, Canada								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000584682300001	35	Article; Article		
J	Petridis, Leonidas; Palinkas, Gergely; Troznai, Zsofia; Beres, Bettina; Utczas, Katinka								Determining strength training needs using the force-velocity profile of elite female handball and volleyball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			123	130	1747954120964043	10.1177/1747954120964043			FEB 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to assess the vertical jump performance and the force-velocity profile of elite female handball and volleyball players. Forty-one female athletes were measured, 28 handball players (age: 24.0 +/- 3.6 years, body height: 1.75 +/- 0.05 m, body mass: 69.0 +/- 7.3 kg) and 13 volleyball players (age: 24.1 +/- 5.2 years, body height: 1.83 +/- 0.07 m and body mass: 74.9 +/- 7.9 kg). All players performed unloaded and loaded countermovement jumps (CMJ) on a force platform. The theoretical maximal force (F-0), the theoretical maximum velocity (v(0)), the theoretical maximal power (P-max), the slope of the F-v relationship (S-fv) and the force-velocity imbalance (FVimb) were calculated. Mean value of vertical jump height was 0.33 +/- 0.03m, with no difference between handball and volleyball players. Mean values of F-0, v(0), P-max, S-fv and FVimb for all players were 31.2 +/- 2.6 N/kg, 3.10 +/- 0.50 m center dot s(-1), 24.2 +/- 3.2 w/kg, -10.32 +/- 2.09 Ns/m/kg and 28.1 +/- 13.3% respectively. Two players had a low magnitude velocity-deficit, whereas most of the players exhibited a low to high force-deficit. A strong correlation was found between the ratio of measured to optimal F-v slope with the change in the proportion of net force to total force during unloaded and loaded conditions. The findings suggest that it would be beneficial for these athletes to first decrease their force deficit through mainly maximal strength training before implementing training to further maximize power output. Establishment of the F-v profile could be a useful diagnostic tool for coaches to optimize strength training and to design training intervention based on the individual need of each athlete.		[Petridis, Leonidas; Palinkas, Gergely; Troznai, Zsofia; Beres, Bettina; Utczas, Katinka] Univ Phys Educ, Res Ctr Sport Physiol, Alkotas U 44, H-1123 Budapest, Hungary; [Petridis, Leonidas] Univ Phys Educ, Res Ctr Sport Physiol, Alkotas U 44, H-1123 Budapest, Hungary								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000598496600001	25	Article; Article		
J	Doyle, Brian; Browne, Declan; Horan, Dan								Differences in anthropometric and physical performance characteristics between U17, U19, and Senior Irish female international football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			352	359	1747954120968191	10.1177/1747954120968191			APR 2021	2021	This study aimed to compare the anthropometric physical performance characteristics of Irish female international footballers at U17, U19, and Senior age groups. Fifty-five (U17, n =24, U19, n =21, Senior, n = 10) female international football players participated in this study. The subjects underwent anthropometric measurements (height and body mass) and physical performance tests countermovement jump (CMJ), reactive strength index (RSI), 10-m, 20-m, 30-m linear sprint, and yo-yo intermittent recovery test level 1 (YYIR1). No significant differences were identified between any age groups for the anthropometric measures of height and body mass. Concerning the physical tests, senior players displayed greater CMJ scores in comparison with the U17 (P = 0.040). Senior players also possessed higher levels of reactive strength with large effect sizes present (ES = 0.83 - 0.92) in comparison to all age groups. No significant differences were identified between any of the age groups across the 10-m, 20-m, 30-m, and rolling 20-m linear speed assessments. Senior players covered the greatest distance in the YYIR1 (P = 0.0001) versus the U19 and U17. These results indicate there was no difference in the anthropometric profile of the age groups assessed. However, differences in physical performance characteristics were present between age groups, thus suggesting improvements in lower limb power and aerobic endurance are achievable in adulthood as players physically mature.		[Doyle, Brian; Browne, Declan] Inst Technol, Dept Sci & Hlth, Kilkenny Rd, Moanacurragh R93 V960, Carlow, Ireland; [Horan, Dan] Football Assoc Ireland, High Performance Dept, Dublin, Ireland; [Doyle, Brian] Inst Technol, Dept Sci & Hlth, Kilkenny Rd, Moanacurragh R93 V960, Carlow, Ireland								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000598421100001	42	Article; Article		
J	Kabasakalis, Athanasios; Nikolaidis, Stefanos; Tsalis, George; Mougios, Vassilis								Low-Volume Sprint Interval Swimming Is Sufficient to Increase Blood Metabolic Biomarkers in Master Swimmers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			318	324		10.1080/02701367.2020.1832183			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Sprint interval exercise is a time-efficient way of inducing beneficial adaptations. However, little is known about its minimal effective volume, especially in swimming. The aim of the present study was to evaluate and compare the effects of two sprint interval swimming sets of different low volumes on blood biomarkers. Method: Twenty-one master swimmers [11 females aged 38.5 (8.5) years, 10 males aged 42.7 (5.7) years] completed two freestyle swimming sets of 4 x 50 m and 4 x 25 m at maximal intensity and a work-to-rest ratio of 1:1, on different days, in random and counterbalanced order. Blood samples were taken before, immediately after and one hour after exercise for determination of a number of biochemical parameters. Results: Swimming speed was higher in the 4 x 25-m set. Lactate, glucose, insulin, glucagon, cortisol, and reduced glutathione increased immediately post-exercise, while uric acid increased 1 h post-exercise (p < .05). All aforementioned biomarkers, excluding glucagon, increased more with the 4 x 50-m set, compared to the 4 x 25-m set (p < .05). Session rating of perceived exertion was higher after the 4 x 50-m set (p = .011). Conclusion: Both sprint interval swimming sets elicited increases in blood biomarkers in master swimmers. The set of higher volume elicited greater increases in most of the biochemical markers studied but also in subjective load. Thus, although the set of higher volume was more efficient in perturbing blood biomarkers, even the very low-volume set induced metabolic stress that may trigger adaptive mechanisms.		[Kabasakalis, Athanasios; Nikolaidis, Stefanos; Tsalis, George; Mougios, Vassilis] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Kabasakalis, Athanasios] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Thessaloniki 54124, Greece								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000583508700001	38	Article; Article		
J	Kushare, Indranil; Ghanta, Ramesh Babu; Wunderlich, Nicole A.								Morel-Lavallee lesions (internal degloving injuries) of the lower extremity in the pediatric and adolescent population								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			182	186		10.1080/00913847.2020.1803712			APR 3 2021	2021	Purpose To describe the largest case series of lower extremity traumatic internal degloving injury, i.e. Morel-Lavallee lesion (MLL) in the pediatric and adolescent population, its treatment and outcomes. Methods Retrospective review of patients under 18 years who presented with MLL to a tertiary children's hospital. Demographic, clinical, radiographic, treatment and outcomes data were collected. Descriptive statistical analysis was conducted. Results 38 patients having MLL with mean age 14.6 years were classified into two groups: hip/thigh MLL (nine patients) and lower leg MLL (29). Most common cause of lower leg and hip/thigh MLL was sports injury (79.3%) and motor vehicle accident (MVA) (33%) respectively. Most implicated sports were football and baseball. Primary care physicians/pediatricians were the initial treating providers for 63% of patients. Imaging modality of choice was magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for lower leg MLLs (72.4%) and ultrasonography (US) for hip/thigh MLL (66.7%). Twenty-five (65.8%) patients were treated with conservative management, 12 (31.6%) with minimally invasive methods and 1 (2.6%) needed surgical management. Average return to normal activities took 14.3 and 9.1 weeks for hip/thigh and lower leg MLL, respectively. Twenty-four patients with adequate documentation demonstrated lower extremity functional score (LEFS) and pain level of 74/80 (92.5%) and 0.7/10, respectively, at mean 12.5 months follow-up. Conclusion In contrast to adult injury literature, pediatric MLLs are more common in the leg/knee than hip/thigh region and caused mostly by sports injuries. Primary care physicians are the initial treating providers for the majority of the patients. Intervention is more often needed in the hip/thigh MLLs as opposed to non-operative management for lower leg injuries. This large case series on MLL in the pediatric population demonstrates differences in the management of hip and thigh lesions when compared to the management of the knee and leg lesions in the majority of these patients. Non-operative management in the majority of these lesions provided overall satisfactory outcomes.		[Kushare, Indranil; Wunderlich, Nicole A.] Texas Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped Surg, Houston, TX 77030 USA; [Kushare, Indranil; Ghanta, Ramesh Babu] Baylor Coll Med, Houston, TX 77030 USA; [Kushare, Indranil] Baylor Coll Med, Houston, TX 77030 USA								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000582381900001	30	Article; Article		
J	Sydney, Michael G.; Ball, Nick; Chapman, Dale; Wollin, Martin; Mara, Jocelyn K.								Does competition standard and player position influence the match-play physical demands of Australian elite youth male soccer players within a single squad?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			360	369	1747954120966891	10.1177/1747954120966891			APR 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of competition standard and player position on the physical demands of Australian elite youth male soccer players during match-play. Twenty-three elite youth male soccer players from the same Australian U17 National Centre of Excellence program were observed across 8 National Youth League (NYL) and 21 National Premier League (NPL) competition matches. Total (TD/min), low- (< 3.6 m/s), moderate- (3.6-5.0m/s) and high-speed (> 5.0 m/s) running distance, and the accelerations (Acc/min) (>= 2.0 m/s(2)) and decelerations (Dec/min) (<= -2.0 m/s(2)) were recorded using 15-Hz portable global positioning system tracking devices (GPSports, Canberra, Australia). An interaction was observed between competition standard and player position for TD/min (p = 0.003), HSRD/min (p = 0.007) and Acc/min (p = 0.037) indicating the influence that competition standard had on these variables varied according to player position. Furthermore, we report that Central Defenders (3.1%), External Attackers (4.2%) and Central Attackers (3.8%) performed more TD/min in NYL (professional development level) compared to NPL (semi-professional) match-play. Central Defenders (24.2%) and Central Attackers (17.0%) completed more HSRD/min in NYL (professional development level) compared to NPL (semi-professional) match-play. Central Defenders (47.8%), External Defenders (20.5%), Midfielders (18.5%) and External Attackers (32.3%) all performed more Acc/min in NPL (semi-professional) when compared to NYL (professional development level) match-play. The results of this study provide scientific basis to aid the match-preparation of Australian elite youth male soccer player's transition to higher standards of soccer.		[Sydney, Michael G.; Ball, Nick; Chapman, Dale; Mara, Jocelyn K.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise UCRISE, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Chapman, Dale] New South Wales Inst Sport NSWIS, Sydney Olympic Pk, NSW, Australia; [Wollin, Martin] Performance Hlth Management, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Wollin, Martin] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Sydney, Michael G.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise UCRISE, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000583850200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Laurin, Raphael; Renard-Moulard, Maxinse; Cometti, Carole								Stereotype Threat Effect on a Simple Motor Task: An Investigation of the Visuo-Spatial Working Memory								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			423	428		10.1080/02701367.2020.1826391			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Based on the Chalabaev et al. (2013) study showing that in a Stereotype Threat (ST) situation the velocity of force production in a simple motor task can be affected, this study aimed to replicate this result and tested the role of Visuo-Spatial Working Memory (VSWM) in the ST effect.Method: Twenty one female athletes performed maximum voluntary contractions of the knee extensor muscles on an isokinetic dynamometer (Biodex), under neutral, ST, and ST with mental imagery conditions. The Rate Force of Development (RFD), a velocity indicator, was measured under each condition. VSWM and avoidance-related processes were measured in at a separate time.Results: Data confirmed that the RFD decreased when the stereotype threat was introduced, but also that mental imagery of the movement in the pre-contraction stage prevented this effect. Moreover, in the ST condition avoidance-related processes did not affect the RFD. In contrast, higher VSWM performance was associated with higher RFD.Conclusion: These findings suggest that the ST effects on a simple motor task can be explained by an alteration of working memory which impairs movement preparatory processes in the pre-contraction stage.		[Laurin, Raphael; Renard-Moulard, Maxinse; Cometti, Carole] Univ Burgundy, Dijon, France; [Laurin, Raphael; Renard-Moulard, Maxinse; Cometti, Carole] Univ Burgundy, Lab Psy Drepi UFR STAPS, F-21000 Dijon, France; [Laurin, Raphael] Univ Burgundy, Lab Psy Drepi UFR STAPS, F-21000 Dijon, France								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000579700400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Feddersen, Niels Boysen; Keis, Marcus Alexander Bygballe; Elbe, Anne-Marie								Coaches' perceived pitfalls in delivering psychological skills training to high-level youth athletes in fencing and football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			249	261	1747954120959524	10.1177/1747954120959524			APR 2021	2021	The current study examined how two high-level coaches in fencing and football perceived the challenges that emerged during a three-month coach education programme aimed at them delivering psychological skills training to athletes. We used action research as the study design and collected data using observations, six semi-structured interviews, and one focus group. We analysed the data using a thematic content analysis. Our findings showed that the coaches struggled with role clarity. The psychological impact was that coaches struggled with identifying the borders between delivering psychological skills training as a part of their coaching and when to refer athletes to sport psychology experts. The coaches also suggested that gaining more knowledge in sport psychology allowed them to analyse the athletes. However, the coaches viewed this as a potential area for abusing trust in the coach-athlete relationship. We suggest that coach education programmes should include content on ethical dilemmas to safeguard against potential abuse of the coach-athlete relationship.		[Feddersen, Niels Boysen; Keis, Marcus Alexander Bygballe] Univ Copenhagen, Inst Sports & Nutr, DK-2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark; [Elbe, Anne-Marie] Univ Leipzig, Sportwissensch Fak, Leipzig, Germany; [Feddersen, Niels Boysen] Univ Copenhagen, Inst Sports & Nutr, DK-2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000583835700001	69	Article; Article		
J	Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel; Rein, Robert; Garnica-Caparros, Marc; Memmert, Daniel; Rey, Ezequiel								The Effect of Substitutions on Team Tactical Behavior in Professional Soccer								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			301	309		10.1080/02701367.2020.1828563			APR 3 2022	2022	Player substitutions are one of the main options for the coach to change tactical behavior of his team.Purpose: The present study therefore investigates the effect of player substitutions on tactical behavior in high-performance soccer using positional data.Method: The sample consisted of 659 substitutions from 234 matches played in the German Bundesliga during the season 2016-2017. Substitutions were classified either as neutral (n = 485), defensive (n = 45), or offensive (n = 129) according to the player's roles. The teams' tactical behavior before and after each substitution was analyzed using team centroid, inter-team centroid distance, team length and width, length per width (LpW) ratio, stretch index, and space control for the whole pitch and for each third as the dependent variables.Results: The linear mixed model analysis showed different effects for neutral, defensive, and offensive substitutions. Teams displayed significantly lower stretch index after defensive substitutions. LpW ratio increased with neutral and offensive substitutions, while inter-team distance decreased. The position of the team centroid, space control in the middle third and in the attacking third were also greater following an offensive substitution.Conclusions: These findings demonstrate that player substitutions effectively change tactical behavior of teams. Soccer coaches should perform more offensive substitutions to elicit a higher defensive pressure and improve goal-scoring opportunities, especially due to greater space control in the attacking third. In contrast, defensive substitutions can be used to increase defensive effectiveness through increases in team compactness.		[Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel; Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Pontevedra, Spain; [Rein, Robert; Garnica-Caparros, Marc; Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000579268200001	47	Article; Article		
J	Ivanova, Elena; Sadikaj, Gentiana; Bourne, Jessica E.; Beauchamp, Mark; Little, Jonathan P.; Jung, Mary E.								A Pilot Study on In-Task Affect Predicting Free-Living Adherence to HIIT and MICT								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			291	300		10.1080/02701367.2020.1828562			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: To report pilot test findings on whether in-task affect during a supervised exercise program, where participants were randomized to either moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT) or high-intensity interval training (HIIT), predicts changes in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA-Total and MVPA10+ in bouts of >= 10 min) at 1- and 6-month post-intervention.Method: This experimental study design randomized 32 inactive adults with prediabetes to complete a 2-week supervised MICT or HIIT plus behavioral counseling exercise intervention and objectively assessed free-living physical activity post-intervention. The Feeling Scale (FS) was used to assess the in-task effect. FS was measured in the middle of four, 1-min intervals in the HIIT condition, corresponding to similar to 20%, similar to 50%, similar to 75%, and similar to 85% of work out time. For the MICT condition, FS was assessed at similar exercise duration percentage times as HIIT. Accelerometer data evaluated MVPA at 1- and 6-month post-intervention.Results: 32 adults were included in the analyses. Pilot findings indicated in-task affect between the conditions did not predict changes in MVPA-Total from baseline to 1 and 6 months. For MVPA10+, in-task affect negatively predicted MVPA10+ over time in the MICT condition only.Conclusion: This study provides preliminary evidence that affect during MICT negatively predicts MVPA10+ over time, and that there is no difference of in-task affect's utility in predicting MVPA-Total between HIIT and MICT. Larger studies are required to confirm these findings.		[Ivanova, Elena; Beauchamp, Mark; Little, Jonathan P.; Jung, Mary E.] Univ British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V5Z 1M9, Canada; [Sadikaj, Gentiana] McGill Univ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Bourne, Jessica E.] Univ Bristol, Bristol, Avon, England; [Jung, Mary E.] Univ British Columbia Okanagan, Sch Hlth & Exercise Sci, RHS 119,3333 Univ Way, Kelowna, BC V1V 1V7, Canada								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000578055800001	44	Article; Article		
J	Barbosa, Enoque; dos Santos Pereira, Raiane Maiara; Guarana, Weslayne Lima; Rocha, Caio Gabriel de Jesus; Fernandes, Pedro Henrique; de Oliveira, Pedro Henrique Lobato; Molina, Guilherme E.; da Cruz, Carlos Janssen Gomes								Effects of Breakfast Omission on Resting, Exercise, and Postexercise Autonomic and Hemodynamic Profile in Men								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			282	290		10.1080/02701367.2020.1825603			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: The acute effects of fasting interventions on metabolic dynamics have been widely investigated. However, knowledge about the acute effect of overnight fasting on hemodynamic and cardiac autonomic modulation is limited, especially during and after exercise. Our objective was to investigate the effects of breakfast omission on hemodynamic and cardiac autonomic modulation during different stress conditions. Method: Twenty-one young men [age: 20.3 (20.1, 26.5 years); body mass index: 22.7 (21.4, 24.4 kg/m(2))] underwent resting and postexercise blood pressure assessments and heart rate variability (HRV) analysis, using the SD1 and SD2 indices of Poincare plots, at rest in supine and standing positions, every 10 minutes during moderate cardiorespiratory training and every 10 minutes throughout the postexercise recovery phase, for a total of 30 minutes for each phase (exercise and recovery). All measurements were performed in a randomized order after overnight fasting or 60 minutes after a breakfast containing similar to 20% of the total recommended daily calories. The normality hypothesis was rejected, and the Wilcoxon test was conducted to compare the interventions (p < .05). Results: No differences between interventions were observed for resting and postexercise blood pressures (p = .21 to 0.87) or for resting, exercise, and postexercise SD1 (p = .10 to 0.82) and SD2 indices (p = .14 to 0.71). Conclusions: We concluded that overnight fasting does not promote significant changes in resting and postexercise blood pressures or cardiac autonomic modulation in young men at rest (in supine and standing positions), during 30 minutes of moderate cardiorespiratory training and throughout a 30-minute postexercise recovery phase.		[Barbosa, Enoque; dos Santos Pereira, Raiane Maiara; Guarana, Weslayne Lima; Rocha, Caio Gabriel de Jesus; Fernandes, Pedro Henrique; de Oliveira, Pedro Henrique Lobato; da Cruz, Carlos Janssen Gomes] Ctr Univ Euro Amer UNIEURO, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Molina, Guilherme E.; da Cruz, Carlos Janssen Gomes] Univ Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [da Cruz, Carlos Janssen Gomes] Ctr Univ Euro Amer UNIEURO, Dept Phys Educ, Ave Nacoes,Trecho 0,Conjunto 05, BR-7020000 Brasilia, DF, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000577635200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Lambert, Christophe; Ritzmann, Ramona; Ellermann, Andree; Carvalho, Marcos; Akoto, Ralph; Wafaisade, Arasch; Lambert, Maxime								Return to competition after anterior cruciate ligament injuries in world class judoka								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	3			331	336		10.1080/00913847.2020.1827684			JUL 3 2021	2021	Objectives The purpose of this study was to quantify how the return to competition after an anterior cruciate ligament rupture in Judo is perceived by athletes as compared to doctors and physiotherapists. Is there a difference between the perspectives of doctors and physiotherapists and athletes regarding surgery, time loss due to injury, or the level of performance after the injury? Which functional tests are used to define when or if athletes are ready for the return to competition? Methods A survey-based retrospective study design with two surveys regarding the treatment methods of an anterior cruciate ligament rupture was established: one version for athletes and one for doctors and physiotherapists. Surveys were equivalent for both populations despite the athletes' individual data. Variance analysis was applied to assess if statistically meaningful differences exist between the two groups. Results From 232 judoka interviewed during the Junior World Judo Championships 2017, 23 suffered an anterior cruciate ligament rupture in the last 2 years. As high as 52% underwent surgery. According to doctors and physiotherapists, 82% of athletes underwent reconstructive surgeries. Athletes returned to competition after 5.5 months, whereas doctors and physiotherapists assumed a time loss of 8.4 months. Only 44% of the doctors and physiotherapists used functional tests like hop tests for defining return to competition and 22% used mental tests. When asking athletes, the use of hop tests (8%) and mental tests (0%) was even lower. Conclusion The study demonstrated for the first time significant discrepancies between the medical treatment regarding the recommendations of doctors and physiotherapists compared to athletes behavior. To support a conclusive statement, we should encourage the doctors and physiotherapists to use functional test batteries for the decision-making process regarding return to competition.		[Lambert, Christophe; Akoto, Ralph; Wafaisade, Arasch; Lambert, Maxime] Univ Witten Herdecke, Cologne Merheim Med Ctr, Dept Trauma & Orthoped Surg, Cologne, Germany; [Lambert, Christophe; Ritzmann, Ramona] Praxisklin Rennbahn AG, Dept Biomech, Muttenz, Switzerland; [Ellermann, Andree] ARCUS Sports Clin Pforzheim, Dept Orthoped & Trauma Surg, Pforzheim, Germany; [Carvalho, Marcos] CHUC, Pediat Hosp Coimbra, EPE, Dept Pediat Orthopaed, Coimbra, Portugal; [Akoto, Ralph] Asklepios Clin St Georg, Dept Trauma & Reconstruct Surg, Div Knee & Shoulder Surg Sports Traumatol, Hamburg, Germany; [Lambert, Christophe] Univ Witten Herdecke, Cologne Merheim Med Ctr, Dept Trauma & Orthoped Surg, Cologne, Germany; [Lambert, Christophe] Praxisklin Rennbahn AG, Dept Biomech, Muttenz, Switzerland								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000578678500001	30	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Hongying; Shen, Bo; Bo, Jin								Profiles of Health-Related Quality of Life and Their Relationships With Happiness, Physical Activity, and Fitness								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			260	269		10.1080/02701367.2020.1822985			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) reflects a perceived sense of physical and mental well-being over time, encompassing both physical health and psychosocial health. Although these two health concepts have been often examined as a whole, few studies have explored the possibility of mixed profiles. We designed this study to identify Chinese adolescents' HRQOL profiles and their associations with happiness, physical activity, and fitness.Method: 544 high-school students completed validated Chinese-version questionnaires assessing HRQOL, happiness, and physical activity behavior while their fitness level was evaluated based on China National Fitness Test Program. A two-step cluster analysis and MANOVAs were conducted.Results: We identified four distinct clusters: low HRQOL, psychosocial health-oriented, physical health-oriented, and high HRQOL. There were significant differences among clusters in happiness, physical activity, and fitness, with "high HRQOL" group being the most adaptive cluster while "low HRQOL" group the least. Both psychosocial health-oriented and physical health-oriented clusters demonstrated dimension-related features.Conclusion: Health-related quality of life in Chinese adolescents is a multidimensional construct. Although its physical and psychosocial functioning are often interacted, different dimensions have unique but specified roles. Particularly, physical functioning might not only be associated with physical and health condition but also with positive emotion, especially when psychosocial satisfaction is lacking. It is important to pay specific attention to the interactions among the dimensions and how the interactions combine and function together to influence adolescents' behavior.		[Wang, Hongying] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Shen, Bo] Wayne State Univ, Detroit, MI USA; [Bo, Jin] Eastern Michigan Univ, Ypsilanti, MI 48197 USA; [Shen, Bo] Wayne State Univ, Div Kinesiol Hlth & Sport Studies, 656 W Kirby Rd, Detroit, MI 48202 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000579583400001	42	Article; Article		
J	Tsolakis, Charilaos; Simeonidis, Theoharis; Georginis, Panagiotis; Cherouveim, Evgenia; Methenitis, Spyridon; Koulouvaris, Panagiotis								The effect of gender, age and sports specialisation on isometric trunk strength in Greek high level young athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	11			1470	1484		10.1080/14763141.2020.1809699			NOV 2 2023	2023	Aim of the study was to compare the isometric strength of flexors and extensors trunk muscles between male and female elite adolescent athletes of different age and training experience. Absolute and relative trunk muscle isometric peak extension (PTE) and flexion (PTF) torque, as well as flexion/extension (F/E) ratio were evaluated in 388 elite adolescent athletes 188 males (Age: 15.4 +/- 1.8 years, Body height: 175.5 +/- 11.2 cm, Body mass: 68.8 +/- 14.5 kg, BMI: 22.1 +/- 0.3 kg/m(2)) and 207 females (Age: 15.1 +/- 1.6 years, Body height: 166.8 +/- 7.8 cm, Body mass: 60.8 +/- 8.4 kg and BMI: 21.8 +/- 0.4 kg/m(2)). Participants were assigned into seven different groups according to their sport specialisation (oars-paddle, swimming, contact-combat, team, racket, winter and mixed other sports). Significant effect of age (eta(2): 0.077-0.112, p < 0.05), gender (eta(2): 0.020-0.077; p < 0.05) and sport category factors (eta(2): 0.057-0.154. p < 0.005) for absolute/relative PTE, PTF and F/E ratio was found. The highest values were observed in contact-combat and the lowest in mixed other sports groups. F/E ratio significantly differs between the age groups, especially in female athletes. The present data suggest that TMSs and F/E ratio are highly affected by age, gender and sports specialisation in high level trained adolescents.		[Tsolakis, Charilaos; Simeonidis, Theoharis; Georginis, Panagiotis; Cherouveim, Evgenia; Methenitis, Spyridon; Koulouvaris, Panagiotis] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Hlth Sci, Athens, Greece; [Tsolakis, Charilaos; Methenitis, Spyridon] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sports Performance Lab, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece; [Cherouveim, Evgenia] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece; [Tsolakis, Charilaos] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Hlth Sci, Athens, Greece; [Tsolakis, Charilaos] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sports Performance Lab, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000575974800001	50	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Chun-Ju; Tai, Mu-Lin; Hu, Cheng-ming; Hamill, Joseph; Tang, Wen-Tzu								Effect of stance width on posture stability of golfers putting under windy conditions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			324	333	1747954120960901	10.1177/1747954120960901			APR 2021	2021	Golf putting requires accuracy and precision. However, environmental factors can influence the accuracy and stability of the putt. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate the adjustment and stabilization strategies of elite college golfers putting under different wind conditions. A 3 D motion analysis system and two force plates were used to record the kinematic and ground reaction force data of the putting stroke in different conditions of wind and putting stance. The artificial wind was produced from an industrial negative pressure fan to create different wind speeds. Participants were asked to perform three putts to the 'virtual' hole with a distance of 15 feet under three wind speeds (none, mid, strong) and three stance width conditions. The results revealed that distance control in strong wind conditions was significantly worse. No significant improvement was found in either distance or direction control when using different stance widths for putting under varying wind speeds. While putting under minor or moderate wind conditions, the player can adjust through self-adjustment on movement control to reduce the impact of external wind on putting performance. However, if the wind speed exceeds to certain threshold value (5.5 m/s), the challenges for golfers to maintain postural stability along the antero-posterior axis increased and led to poor putting distance control. Our results suggest that when putting under windy conditions, elite low-handicap college golfers are able adopt a normal stance in order to minimize a change in their putting protocol.		[Yang, Chun-Ju; Tai, Mu-Lin; Tang, Wen-Tzu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, 250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan 333, Taiwan; [Hu, Cheng-ming] St Ambrose Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Davenport, IA USA; [Hamill, Joseph] Univ Massachusetts, Biomech Lab, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Tang, Wen-Tzu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Athlet & Coaching Sci, 250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Taoyuan 333, Taiwan								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000578330400001	18	Article; Article		
J	Compos, Yuri A. C.; Vianna, Jeferson M.; Guimaraes, Miller P.; Oliveira, Jorge L. D.; Hernandez-Mosqueira, Claudio; da Silva, Sandro F.; Marchetti, Paulo H.								Different Shoulder Exercises Affect the Activation of Deltoid Portions in Resistance-Trained Individuals								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			5	14		10.2478/hukin-2020-0033			OCT 2020	2020	The aims of this study were to compare muscle activity of the anterior deltoid, medial deltoid, and posterior deltoid in the bench press, dumbbell fly, shoulder press, and lateral raise exercises. Thirteen men experienced in strength training volunteered for the study. Muscle activation was recorded during maximum isometric voluntary contraction (MVIC) for data normalization, and during one set of 12 repetitions with the load of 60% /RM in all exercises proposed. One-way repeated-measures ANOVA with Bonferroni's posthoc was applied using a 5% significance level. For anterior deltoid, the shoulder press (33.3% MVIC) presented a significantly higher level of activation when compared to other exercises. Also, no significant difference was found between the bench press (21.4% MVIC), lateral raise (21.2% MVIC), and dumbbell fly (18.8% MVIC). For the medial deltoid, the lateral raise (30.3% MVIC) and shoulder press (27.9% MVIC) presented a significantly higher level of activity than the bench press (5% MVIC) and dumbbell fly (3.4% MVIC). Besides, no significant difference was found between the bench press and the dumbbell fly. For the posterior deltoid, the lateral raise (24% MVIC) presented a significantly higher level of activation when compared to other exercises. For the posterior deltoid portion, the shoulder press (11.4% MVIC) was significantly more active than the bench press (3.5% MVIC) and dumbbell fly (2.5% MVIC). Moreover, no significant difference was found between the bench press and the dumbbell fly. In conclusion, the shoulder press and lateral raise exercises showed a higher level of muscle activation in the anterior deltoid and medial deltoid when compared to the bench press and dumbbell fly exercises.		[Compos, Yuri A. C.; Guimaraes, Miller P.; da Silva, Sandro F.] Univ Lavras, Studies Res Grp Neuromuscular Responses, Lavras, Brazil; [Compos, Yuri A. C.; Vianna, Jeferson M.; Oliveira, Jorge L. D.] Univ Juiz de Fora, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Postgrad Program, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Guimaraes, Miller P.] Univ Sao Paulo, Postgrad Human Movement & Rehabil Sci, Santos, SP, Brazil; [Hernandez-Mosqueira, Claudio] Univ Los Lagos, Dept Phys Act Sci, Puerto Montt, Chile; [Hernandez-Mosqueira, Claudio] Adventist Univ Chile, AFSYE Res Grp, Santiago, Chile; [Marchetti, Paulo H.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Compos, Yuri A. C.] Univ Lavras, Dept Phys Educ, POB 3037, BR-37200000 Lavras, Brazil								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400001	36	Article; Article		
J	Machado, Joao Claudio; Barreira, Daniel; Teoldo, Israel; Serra-Olivares, Jaime; Goes, Alberto; Scaglia, Alcides Jose								Tactical Behaviour of Youth Soccer Players: Differences Depending on Task Constraint Modification, Age and Skill Level								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			225	238		10.2478/hukin-2020-0051			OCT 2020	2020	This study aimed to investigate: i) how Small-Sided and Conditioned Games based on different representation and exaggeration modification strategies, from the Teaching Games for Understanding pedagogical principles, affected team performance and exploratory behaviour; and ii) how teams and players of different ages and skill levels were affected by the use of these different modification strategies. In total, forty-eight youth male soccer players participated in the study (U15, n = 24 mean age = 13.06 +/- 1.53 years; U17, n = 24 mean age = 16.89 +/- 0.11 years). In both categories, players were organized into three groups according to their tactical efficiency level (Group 01 = High Skilled Players (HSP), Group 02 = Intermediate Skilled Players (ISP), and Group 03 = Low Skilled Players (LSP)). The HSP and LSP groups performed two types of Gk+4vs4+Gk Small-Sided and Conditioned Games (SSCGs) based on different representation and exaggeration modification strategies. The first type of SSCGs was modified by structural constraints (Structural SSCG) and the second type was modified by rule manipulation (Manipulation SSCG). Team performance and exploratory behaviour were analysed through the Offensive Sequences Characterization System and Lag Sequential Analysis, respectively. SSCG modification strategies affected differently tactical performance and exploratory behaviour of teams composed of players of different skill levels. It was found that SSCG modification strategy through rule manipulation provided players and teams with a higher level of difficulty, compromising their performance and inhibiting exploratory behaviour. This information is crucial to practitioners wishing to apply more appropriate pedagogical strategies to improve a specific tactical problem using a player-centred and game-based approach.		[Machado, Joao Claudio; Goes, Alberto] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab LEDEHU, Gen Rodrigo Otavio Jordao Ramos Ave N6-200, BR-69080900 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Machado, Joao Claudio; Scaglia, Alcides Jose] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Barreira, Daniel] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Teoldo, Israel] Univ Fed Vicosa, Ctr Res & Studies Football, Dept Phys Educ, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Serra-Olivares, Jaime] Univ Catolica Temuco, Fac Educ, Pedag Educ Fis, Temuco, Chile; [Scaglia, Alcides Jose] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Appl Sci FCA, Lab Sport Pedag LEPE, Limeira, SP, Brazil; [Machado, Joao Claudio] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab LEDEHU, Gen Rodrigo Otavio Jordao Ramos Ave N6-200, BR-69080900 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Machado, Joao Claudio] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Campinas, SP, Brazil								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400019	37	Article; Article		
J	Telles, Luiz Guilherme da Silva; Carelli, Luiz Cristiano; Braz, Igor Dutra; Junqueira, Christian; Monteiro, Estevao Rios; Reis, Victor Machado; Vianna, Jeferson Macedo; Novaes, Jefferson da Silva								Effects of Ischemic Preconditioning as a Warm-Up on Leg Press and Bench Press Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			267	277		10.2478/hukin-2020-0055			OCT 2020	2020	Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) has been used to increase performance in sports. The aim of this study was to compare the acute effects of IPC with different warm-up methods on the number of repetitions and total volume in resistance exercise (RE). Sixteen healthy men recreationally trained in RE participated in this study. After the anthropometric evaluation and familiarization, a one-repetition maximum (1RM) test and retest were performed in the bench press (BP) and in the leg press 45 degrees (LP) exercise. After these tests, participants were randomly assigned to one of the five protocols: a) IPC; b) SHAM; c) a specific warm-up (SW); d) aerobic exercise (AE), and e) active stretching (AS) prior to performing 3 sets at 80% 1RM until concentric failure. The number of repetitions was higher following IPC compared to the SW following three sets both for the BP and LP. Similarly, the number of repetitions for IPC was higher in comparison to SHAM following three sets for the LP. The number of repetitions was higher following IPC compared to AE following 1st and 2nd sets for the LP and following the 2nd set for the BP. Finally, the number of repetitions was higher following IPC compared to AS following 1st and 2nd sets for the LP. The total volume was higher following IPC compared to SHAM, SW, AE, and AS for both the BP and LP. The IPC protocol increased the number of maximum repetitions and the total volume when compared to the other tested methods, thus indicating a better utilization during the pre-work warm-up. These results indicate positive associative responses to IPC with performance maintenance, which is of importance for both athletes and coaches.		[Telles, Luiz Guilherme da Silva; Monteiro, Estevao Rios; Novaes, Jefferson da Silva] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Carelli, Luiz Cristiano; Braz, Igor Dutra; Junqueira, Christian] Univ Ctr Volta Redonda, Volta Redonda, RJ, Brazil; [Monteiro, Estevao Rios] Augusto Motta Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Reis, Victor Machado] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Vianna, Jeferson Macedo; Novaes, Jefferson da Silva] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil; [Telles, Luiz Guilherme da Silva] Univ Estacio Sa, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Telles, Luiz Guilherme da Silva] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Carlos Chagas Filho Ave,540 Univ City, BR-21941599 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400023	42	Article; Article		
J	Rozek-Piechura, Krystyna; Kurzaj, Monika; Okrzymowska, Paulina; Kucharski, Wojciech; Stodolka, Jacek; Mackala, Krzysztof								Influence of Inspiratory Muscle Training of Various Intensities on The Physical Performance of Long-Distance Runners								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			127	137		10.2478/hukin-2020-0031			OCT 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of inspiratory muscle training (IMT) at different intensities on the pulmonary function and physiological adaptations of long-distance runners undergoing sports training. This study involved 25 long-distance runners. The subjects were randomly divided into three groups depending on the type of IMT applied: POWERbreathe device (group 1), Threshold IMT device (group 2), and a control group. The following lung variables were evaluated: vital capacity (VC), forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and peak expiratory flow (PEF). Respiratory muscle strength was assessed by maximum inspiratory pressure (PImax) and maximum expiratory pressure (PEmax). Spiroergometric measures included: heart rate (HR), oxygen uptake (VO2max), carbon dioxide production (VCO2max), maximum ventilation (VE) and respiratory exchange rate (RER), which were measured breath by breath using a gas analyser (VYNTUS CPX). Group 1, which used the POWERbreathe device, showed significant increases in all assessed physiological and physical performance variables. In group 2, which used the Threshold device, only VO2max, VE and tRER ventilation were significantly increased to a similar level as that observed in group 1. In the control group, we only observed a significant reduction in saturation. The use of IMT with a higher intensity resulted in significant improvements in all tested variables of lung ventilation and respiratory muscle strength. Also, after training, lactate accumulation was significantly decreased. Physiological characteristics (VO2max/kg) and muscle respiratory strength variables were significantly improved in the group that used the POWERbreathe device after 8 weeks of training.		[Rozek-Piechura, Krystyna; Kurzaj, Monika; Okrzymowska, Paulina; Kucharski, Wojciech] Univ Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Physiotherapy, Wroclaw, Poland; [Stodolka, Jacek; Mackala, Krzysztof] Univ Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Phys Educ, Wroclaw, Poland; [Kucharski, Wojciech] EMC Med Inst SA, Dept Internal Dis, Wroclaw, Poland; [Okrzymowska, Paulina] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Physiotherapy Internal Dis, Al IJ Paderewskiego 35, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400011	32	Article; Article		
J	Krol, Henryk; Klyszcz-Morciniec, Malgorzata; Bacik, Bogdan								The Structure of Selected Basic Acrobatic Jumps								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			41	64		10.2478/hukin-2020-0036			OCT 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to investigate the relationships between the internal and external structure of basic acrobatic jumps. Eleven healthy elite artistic gymnasts (9 female, 2 male) participated in this study. Participants performed the following basic 'acrobatic' jumps: a tucked backward somersault (TS), a piked backward somersault (PS), and a countermovement jump (CMJ). Furthermore, female gymnasts also performed the backward handspring (HS), taking off and then landing on their hands in the same place - a specific jump only for women. All jumps were initiated from a stationary upright posture and with an arms swing. Six infrared cameras, synchronized with a module for wireless measurement of the electrical activity of eight muscles, and the force plate were used. Infrared camera-recordings were made in order to obtain kinematic variables describing the movement structure of the acrobatic jumps. These variables may explain the characteristics of muscle activation (the internal structure of the movement) and ground reaction force (the external-kinetic structure of the movement). However, for various technical reasons, it was not possible to register all the specified jumps in the protocol. Moreover, the distribution normalities, estimated by the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, differed between variables. Therefore, to compare the data, the pair-wise nonparametric Wilcoxon Signed-Ranks Test was applied. The CMJ showed the highest level of vertical impulse, velocity, and displacement followed by the TS, PS, and HS. In the take-off phase of acrobatic jumps with rotation the average muscle activation levels of the biceps femoris were significantly higher and of the rectus femoris significantly lower than in the countermovement jump.		[Krol, Henryk; Bacik, Bogdan] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Klyszcz-Morciniec, Malgorzata] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Katowice, Poland; [Bacik, Bogdan] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400004	40	Article; Article		
J	Torres-Luque, Gema; Carlos Blanca-Torres, Juan; Cabello-Manrique, David; Kondric, Miran								Statistical Comparison of Singles Badminton Matches at the London 2012 and Rio De Janeiro 2016 Olympic Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			177	184		10.2478/hukin-2020-0046			OCT 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to analyse statistical differences in men's and women's singles badminton competitions at the London and Rio Olympic Games. Forty-five matches (128 sets in total) played at the 2012 and 2016 Olympics in badminton were analysed. Variables related to the match (6) and each set (13) were determined. The results show the longest rally in sets 1 and 3, the biggest come back to win the game in set 2, and that the duration of set 3 for men was longer in Rio than in London. All of the women's sets had longer duration, and the rally length and the number of strokes per rally was also longer in Rio versus London. In conclusion, the timing factors of badminton singles were dissimilar in London 2012 and Rio 2016 for both men and women. This information may help players and coaches manage different workout types or, more specifically, competition schedules that are adapted to suit modern badminton's characteristics.		[Torres-Luque, Gema; Carlos Blanca-Torres, Juan] Univ Jaen, Fac Humanities & Educ Sci, Jaen, Spain; [Cabello-Manrique, David] Univ Granada, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Ctra Alfacar S-N, Granada 18071, Spain; [Kondric, Miran] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Kondric, Miran] Int Table Tennis Federat, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Cabello-Manrique, David] Univ Granada, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Ctra Alfacar S-N, Granada 18071, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400015	19	Article; Article		
J	Rajic, Sandro; Legg, Hayley S.; Maurus, Philipp; Nigg, Sandro R.; Cleather, Daniel J.								The Effects of a 9-Week Hip Focused Weight Training Program on Hip And Knee Kinematics and Kinetics in Experienced Female Dancers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			29	39		10.2478/hukin-2020-0035			OCT 2020	2020	Increased involvement of the hip musculature during some movements is associated with enhanced performance and reduced injury risk. However, the impact of hip dominant weight training methods on movement strategy has seen limited attention within the literature. The aim of this study was to evaluate i f a 9-week hip dominant weight training intervention promotes a more hip dominant movement strategy leading to an improvement in countermovement jump performance. Twenty-two experienced female dancers were recruited and separated into an intervention (age 24.4 +/- 6.3 years, body height 165.5 +/- 5.8 cm, body mass 65.9 +/- 5.6 kg) and a control (age 22.9 +/- 5.6 years, body height 163.3 +/- 5.4 cm, body mass 57.4 +/- 6.8 kg) group. The intervention group participated in a 9-week hip dominant training intervention, which consisted of a wide stance back squat, Romanian deadlift, hip thrusters, and a bent over row. Hip and knee kinematics and kinetics, and countermovement jump performance were assessed pre and post training. Significant interaction effects were found for peak hip joint moment (p = 0.030, eta 2 = 0.214) and countermovement jump performance (p = 0.003, eta 2 = 0.356), indicating an increase in peak hip joint moment and countermovement jump performance for the intervention group. Specifically, the intervention group showed a mean increase in jump height of 11.5%. The data show that the use of a hip dominant weight training strategy can improve hip contribution in the propulsion phase of the countermovement jump. Strength and conditioning specialists should incorporate hip dominant weight training exercises to increase hip strength and improve performance.		[Rajic, Sandro; Legg, Hayley S.; Cleather, Daniel J.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, London, England; [Rajic, Sandro; Maurus, Philipp; Nigg, Sandro R.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Cleather, Daniel J.] Inst Globally Distributed Open Res & Educ IGDORE, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Rajic, Sandro] 216 Elgin Meadows View SE, Calgary, AB T2Z 0G1, Canada								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400003	37	Article; Article		
J	Williamson, David; McCarthy, Earl; Ditroilo, Massimiliano								Acute Physiological Responses to Ultra Short Race-Pace Training in Competitive Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			95	102		10.2478/hukin-2020-0040			OCT 2020	2020	Ultra Short Race Pace training (USRPT) is an emerging training modality devised in 2011 to deviate from high-volume swimming training that is typically prescribed. USRPT aims to replicate the exact demands of racing, through its unique prescription of race-pace velocity sets with short rest intervals. It has been surmised, with little physiological evidence, that USRPT provides swimmers with the best opportunity to optimize the conditioning, technique, and psychology aspects of racing at the most specific velocity of the relevant event, with low blood lactate concentration. The aim of this study was to examine acute physiological responses of USRPT. Fourteen swimmers were recruited to perform a USRPT set: 20 x 25 m freestyle with a 35-s rest interval. Swimmers were required to maintain the velocity of their 100 m personal best time for each sprint. Sprint performance, blood lactate, heart rate and the RPE were measured. Blood lactate was taken before, during (after every 4 sprints) and 3 minutes after the USRPT protocol. Heart rate monitors were used to profile the heart rate. Athletes reported the RPE before- and after completion of the USRPT set. Sprint times increased by 3.3-10.8% when compared to the first sprint (p < 0.01). There was high blood lactate concentration (13.6 +/- 3.1 mmol/l), a significant change in the RPE from 8 +/- 1.6 to 18 +/- 1.6 (p < 0.01) and a substantially high heart rate profile with an average HRmax of 188 +/- 9 BPM. The results show the maximal intensity nature of USRPT and portray it as an anaerobic style of training.		[Williamson, David; Ditroilo, Massimiliano] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Woodview House,Room 9, Dublin D4, Ireland; [McCarthy, Earl] Univ Coll Dublin, Swim Team, Dublin, Ireland; [Ditroilo, Massimiliano] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Woodview House,Room 9, Dublin D4, Ireland; [Ditroilo, Massimiliano] Univ Coll Dublin, Ctr Sports Studies, Woodview House,Room 9, Dublin D4, Ireland								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400008	32	Article; Article		
J	Ragone, Luciano; Vieira, Joao Guilherme; Laterza, Mateus Camaroti; Leitao, Luis; Novaes, Jefferson da Silva; Vianna, Jeferson Macedo; Dias, Marcelo Ricardo								Acute Effect of Sodium Bicarbonate Supplementation on Symptoms of Gastrointestinal Discomfort, Acid-Base Balance, and Performance of Jiu-Jitsu Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			85	93		10.2478/hukin-2020-0039			OCT 2020	2020	The purpose of the present study was to verify the acute effect of sodium bicarbonate supplementation on symptoms of gastrointestinal discomfort, acid-base balance and intermittent isometric handgrip test performance in JiuJitsu athletes. Ten male (22.2 +/- 3.9 years; 174 +/- 0.07 cm; 74.5 +/- 8.9 kg) jiu-jitsu athletes participated in this counterbalanced double-blind crossover study. Two protocols, a) supplementation with 0.3 g.kg(-1) of body weight of sodium bicarbonate, and b) supplementation with 0.045 g.kg(-1) of body weight of placebo substance, were employed. Gastrointestinal tolerability was assessed by the questionnaire. Blood samples were collected at three time points (baseline, pre-ISO, and post-ISO) to determine the responses of potential hydrogenionic (pH), bicarbonate (HCO3-), - base excess (EB) and lactate concentrations. The maximum voluntary contraction test and the intermittent isometric contraction test were also performed. As a result, none of the athletes reported significant gastrointestinal discomfort (p > 0.05). HCO3-, pH, and EB at the pre-ISO and post-ISO moments were significantly higher for the sodium bicarbonate protocol. Lactate concentrations were significantly higher for both post-ISO protocols (p = 0.000). There was no significant difference in the performance of the maximum voluntary contraction test and the intermittent isometric contraction test (p > 0.05). Thus, we conclude that sodium bicarbonate supplementation does not generate adverse responses resulting in gastrointestinal discomfort, and does not benefit performance yet promotes a state of metabolic alkalosis.		[Ragone, Luciano; Dias, Marcelo Ricardo] Granbery Methodist Coll, Lab Exercise Physiol & Morphofunct Assessment, Rua Floriano Peixoto 937-503, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Vieira, Joao Guilherme; Laterza, Mateus Camaroti; Vianna, Jeferson Macedo] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Fac Phys Educ Sports, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Leitao, Luis] Polytech Inst Setubal, Super Sch Educ, Setubal, Portugal; [Novaes, Jefferson da Silva] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Gymnast Dept, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Dias, Marcelo Ricardo] Granbery Methodist Coll, Lab Exercise Physiol & Morphofunct Assessment, Rua Floriano Peixoto 937-503, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400007	35	Article; Article		
J	Drigny, Joffrey; Gauthier, Antoine; Reboursiere, Emmanuel; Guermont, Henri; Gremeaux, Vincent; Edouard, Pascal								Shoulder Muscle Imbalance as a Risk for Shoulder Injury in Elite Adolescent Swimmers: A Prospective Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				75	1			103	113		10.2478/hukin-2020-0041			OCT 2020	2020	Muscle strength imbalances between the internal and external rotators of the shoulder are frequent in swimmers, but their role in shoulder injury remains unknown. We aimed to evaluate the association of shoulder rotator strength and injury in elite adolescent swimmers. Eighteen adolescent swimmers performed preseason isokinetic tests of the internal and external rotator muscles in concentric (con) and eccentric (ecc) modes. Conventional (conER:conIR and eccER:eccIR) and functional ratios (eccER:conIR and eccIR:conER) were calculated. Thirteen swimmers completed a weekly questionnaire about swimming habits and shoulder injuries throughout the season. Preseason testing showed a significant negative association between the functional eccER:conIR ratio and years of practice (p < 0.05). Over the season, 46% of athletes experienced at least one shoulder injury. At the end of the season, peak torques increased for both internal and external rotator muscles strength, but only concentrically, resulting in a decrease in the eccER:conIR functional ratio (p < 0.05). The receiver operating characteristic curve analysis highlighted good predictive power for the preseason functional eccER:conlR ratio, as values below 0.68 were associated with a 4.5-fold (95% CI 1.33-15.28, p < 0.05) increased risk of shoulder injuries during the season.		[Drigny, Joffrey; Reboursiere, Emmanuel; Guermont, Henri] Normandie Univ, UNICAEN, Sports Med Unit, CHU Caen Normandie, Caen, France; [Drigny, Joffrey] Normandie Univ, UNICAEN, Phys Med & Rehabil Unit, CHU Caen Normandie, Caen, France; [Drigny, Joffrey; Gauthier, Antoine] UMR S 1075 INSERM Unicaen COMETE, Caen, France; [Gauthier, Antoine] Univ Caen Basse Normandie, UPRES EA 2131, UFR STAPS, Caen, France; [Gremeaux, Vincent] CHU Vaudois, Div Med Phys & Readaptat, Ctr Med Sport, Swiss Olymp Med Ctr, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Gremeaux, Vincent; Edouard, Pascal] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Edouard, Pascal] Univ Jean Monnet, Univ Lyon, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Sci LIBM EA 7424, F-42023 St Etienne, France; [Edouard, Pascal] Univ Hosp St Etienne, Dept Clin & Exercise Physiol, Sports Med Unit, Fac Med, St Etienne, France; [Drigny, Joffrey] CHU Caen, Med Phys & Readaptat, Av Cote Nacre, F-14000 Caen, France								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590449400009	32	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez, Adam M.; Church, David D.; Townsend, Jeremy R.; Bagheri, Reza								Emerging Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Hypertrophy: An Update of the Current Literature								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	5			57	70		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000552			OCT 2020	2020	Several dietary supplements have been proposed as a means of improving muscle strength and hypertrophy when combined with resistance training. However, few have received sufficient attention from sports scientists to produce robust evidence for being well recommended. A growing body of literature has emerged for several dietary ingredients with the potential to promote muscular adaptations. Therefore, the aim of this review is to provide an evidence-based review of the efficacy of emerging nutritional supplements to allow athletes, coaches, and practitioners to make an informed decision when considering their use as a means of improving muscle strength and hypertrophy.		[Gonzalez, Adam M.] Hofstra Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Hempstead, NY 11550 USA; [Church, David D.] Univ Arkansas Med Sci, Dept Geriatr, Donald W Reynolds Inst Aging, Ctr Translat Res Aging & Longev, Little Rock, AR 72205 USA; [Townsend, Jeremy R.] Lipscomb Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Exercise & Nutr Sci Grad Program, Nashville, TN USA; [Bagheri, Reza] Univ Isfahan, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Esfahan, Iran; [Gonzalez, Adam M.] Hofstra Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Hempstead, NY 11550 USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575994100007	145	Article; Article		
J	Aragon, Alan A.; Schoenfeld, Brad J.								Magnitude and Composition of the Energy Surplus for Maximizing Muscle Hypertrophy: Implications for Bodybuilding and Physique Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	5			79	86		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000539			OCT 2020	2020	This review aimed to explore the nature of energy consumption for optimizing muscle growth in the presence of a resistance training program with a specific focus on implications for bodybuilders and physique athletes. Although gains in muscle mass can be achieved when resistance training is performed under hypocaloric conditions, research indicates that maximizing exercise-induced muscle hypertrophy requires an energy surplus. Herein, we discuss the interplay between total dietary energy intake and macronutrient ratios, and provide evidence-based guidelines as to how they should be manipulated to optimize muscular adaptations.		[Aragon, Alan A.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY 10468 USA; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY 10468 USA								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575994100009	48	Article; Article		
J	Rolnick, Nicholas; Schoenfeld, Brad J.								Blood Flow Restriction Training and the Physique Athlete: A Practical Research-Based Guide to Maximizing Muscle Size								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	5			22	36		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000553			OCT 2020	2020	Emerging evidence indicates that low load blood flow restriction (BFR) training is an effective strategy to increase muscular adaptations. Yet, it remains questionable as to whether combining BFR with traditional resistance training can potentiate hypertrophic adaptations. The purpose of this article is to provide an evidence-based review of current research on the topic including underlying mechanisms of BFR training and draw practical conclusions as to how BFR can be applied by physique athletes to optimize increases in muscle mass.		[Rolnick, Nicholas] PHLEX NYC, Human Performance Mech, New York, NY USA; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY Lehman Coll, Hlth Sci Dept, Bronx, NY 10468 USA; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY Lehman Coll, Hlth Sci Dept, Bronx, NY 10468 USA								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575994100004	111	Article; Article		
J	Rolnick, Nicholas; Schoenfeld, Brad J.								Can Blood Flow Restriction Used During Aerobic Training Enhance Body Composition in Physique Athletes?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	5			37	47		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000585			OCT 2020	2020	Emerging evidence indicates low-load blood flow restriction (BFR) training is an effective strategy to increase muscular adaptations when performed during resistance training. Yet, it remains questionable as to whether combining BFR with traditional aerobic training can preserve or perhaps even potentiate hypertrophic adaptations. The purpose of this article is to provide an evidence-based review of current research on the topic and draw practical conclusions as to how BFR can be applied by physique athletes to optimize increases in muscle mass.		[Rolnick, Nicholas] PHLEX NYC, Human Performance Mech, New York, NY USA; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY Lehman Coll, Hlth Sci Dept, Bronx, NY 10468 USA; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY Lehman Coll, Hlth Sci Dept, Bronx, NY 10468 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575994100005	77	Article; Article		
J	Tzur, Adam; Roberts, Brandon M.								The Ketogenic Diet for Bodybuilders and Physique Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	5			108	115		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000573			OCT 2020	2020	In the past decades, the ketogenic diet has received scientific interest as a diet which may be beneficial for athletes. We summarize the ketogenic literature and give competitive bodybuilders and physique athletes advice on whether the diet and ketone supplements are suitable for off-season and in-season use. The diet is effective for fat loss and has a strong hunger-reducing effect. Current evidence suggests it is suboptimal for bulking and gaining lean mass. Upon starting the diet, negative side effects should be expected and prevented by increasing intake of electrolytes, fiber, and water. Exogenous ketones are currently not recommended.		[Tzur, Adam] Sci Fit Net, Kristiansand, Norway; [Roberts, Brandon M.] Strength Guys Inc, Birmingham, AL USA; [Tzur, Adam] Sci Fit Net, Kristiansand, Norway								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575994100013	95	Article; Article		
J	Newmire, Daniel E.; Willoughby, Darryn S.								Partial Range of Motion Resistance Training: A Feasible Bodybuilding Training Regiment for Local or Regional Muscle Hypertrophy?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	5			87	93		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000550			OCT 2020	2020	Bodybuilding is defined as an active lifestyle and competitive interest in body aesthetics and muscularity acquired through resistance training. The overall goal in these cosmetically assessed competitions is to display the human physique in a muscularly proportionate and symmetrical manner. Bodybuilding training falls within the hypertrophic oriented goals and recommendations. However, a resistance training modality known as optimal muscle length-specificity training or partial range of motion (pROM) has been recently investigated and has shown some similar hypertrophic outcomes compared to the standard full range of motion (fROM) resistance training. Additionally, there is some work suggesting pROM may have some benefit in local or regional muscular hypertrophy, which may benefit bodybuilding competitors allowing a muscle group focused stimulus. This may be beneficial for competitors who desire to give more attention to underdeveloped muscle groups to create better proportion and symmetry. There are positive yet not definitive results from investigations of pROM on hypertrophy. More research is needed to assess the validity of this mode of training within this population. Bodybuilding is a competition that judges a physique based on proportionate and symmetrical muscularity. The resistance training modality pROM may have benefits for this population.		[Newmire, Daniel E.] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Exercise Physiol & Biochem Lab, Corpus Christi, TX 78412 USA; [Willoughby, Darryn S.] Univ Mary Hardin Baylor, Sch Exercise & Sport Sci, Human Performance Lab, Benton, TX USA; [Newmire, Daniel E.] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Exercise Physiol & Biochem Lab, Corpus Christi, TX 78412 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575994100010	44	Article; Article		
J	Escalante, Guillermo; Campbell, Bill, I; Norton, Layne								Effectiveness of Diet Refeeds and Diet Breaks as a Precontest Strategy								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	5			102	107		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000546			OCT 2020	2020	Physique competitors focus on optimizing body composition through maximizing muscle mass and loss of body fat. Competitors frequently experiment with various methodologies purported to improve body composition, but often, there is a lack of evidence on their efficacy. Emerging evidence suggests that intermittent energy restriction (IER) methodologies such as refeeds and diet breaks may offer various benefits to competitors by improving fat loss efficiency, lean body mass retention, and attenuating metabolic adaptation to weight loss. This review examines these methodologies and the evidence for their efficacy and proposes practical ways to implement IER that may benefit physique competitors.		[Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA; [Campbell, Bill, I] Univ S Florida, Tampa, FL 33620 USA; [Norton, Layne] BioLayne LLC, Lutz, FL USA; [Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575994100012	38	Article; Article		
J	Barakat, Christopher; Pearson, Jeremy; Escalante, Guillermo; Campbell, Bill; De Souza, Eduardo O.								Body Recomposition: Can Trained Individuals Build Muscle and Lose Fat at the Same Time?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	5			7	21		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000584			OCT 2020	2020	Despite the lack of standardized terminology, building muscle and losing fat concomitantly has been referred to as body recomposition by practitioners. Although many suggest that this only occurs in untrained/novice and overweight/obese populations, there is a substantial amount of literature demonstrating this body recomposition phenomenon in resistance-trained individuals. Moreover, 2 key factors influencing these adaptations are progressive resistance training coupled with evidence-based nutritional strategies. This review examines some of the current literature demonstrating body recomposition in various trained populations, the aforementioned key factors, nontraining/nutrition variables (i.e., sleep, hormones), and potential limitations due to body composition assessments. In addition, this review points out the areas where more research is warranted.		[Barakat, Christopher; Pearson, Jeremy; De Souza, Eduardo O.] Univ Tampa, Dept Hlth Sci & Human Performance, Tampa, FL 33606 USA; [Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Dept Kinesiol, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA; [Campbell, Bill] Univ S Florida, Performance & Phys Enhancement Lab, Tampa, FL 33620 USA; [De Souza, Eduardo O.] Univ Tampa, Dept Hlth Sci & Human Performance, Tampa, FL 33606 USA								45							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575994100003	76	Article; Article		
J	Rial Rebullido, Tamara; Chulvi-Medrano, Ivan								The Abdominal Vacuum Technique for Bodybuilding								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	5			116	120		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000434			OCT 2020	2020	The abdominal vacuum technique is a breath-holding maneuver used in bodybuilding to contrast a noticeable reduction of the waistline to an increase in thoracic circumference. This article provides a description of the abdominal vacuum exercise as well as a technique-driven progression and teaching cues for performing this maneuver.		[Rial Rebullido, Tamara] Int Hypopress & Phys Therapy Inst, Vigo, Spain; [Chulvi-Medrano, Ivan] Univ Alicante, Alicante, Spain; [Rial Rebullido, Tamara] Int Hypopress & Phys Therapy Inst, Vigo, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575994100014	14	Article; Article		
J	Wasser, Joseph G.; Tripp, Brady; Bruner, Michelle L.; Bailey, Daniel R.; Leitz, Rachel S.; Zaremski, Jason L.; Vincent, Heather K.								Volleyball-related injuries in adolescent female players: an initial report								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	3			323	330		10.1080/00913847.2020.1826284			JUL 3 2021	2021	Objective To determine the prevalence and risk factors associated with musculoskeletal injuries sustained in female adolescent volleyball players. Methods Volleyball players (n = 276; 13-18 years), with any level of volleyball experience, were recruited. Participants completed a study-specific survey about their overall sport(s) involvement, training modalities, volleyball experience (beginner, intermediate, advanced), annual volume of volleyball play, injuries accrued during volleyball, and care received for injury. Results Annual volume of volleyball play was higher in advanced than beginner/intermediate players (490.0 hr/yr versus 302.3 hr/yr; p < 0.0001). Nearly 67% (188/276) of participants incurred one or more volleyball-related injuries over the last year. The ankle (40.6%), fingers (36.6%), knee (21.2%), and shoulder (15.5%) were the most frequently reported injury. Injury prevalence was higher in advanced than beginner/intermediate players (73.5% versus 62.0%;p= 0.04). Beginner/intermediate players have significantly higher odds ratio (OR) of sustaining an elbow injury than advanced players (OR 5.88; p = 0.025). 21.5% of injured players missed more than one month of play. Conclusion More competitive and experienced adolescent female players may incur injuries due to progressively higher volumes of play as experience and competition level increase. Players who have committed to only playing volleyball participated in greater volumes of volleyball play, which increases the odds of sustaining an injury.		[Wasser, Joseph G.; Bruner, Michelle L.; Bailey, Daniel R.; Leitz, Rachel S.; Zaremski, Jason L.; Vincent, Heather K.] Univ Florida, Dept Orthopaed & Rehabil, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, Gainesville, FL USA; [Wasser, Joseph G.; Bruner, Michelle L.; Bailey, Daniel R.; Leitz, Rachel S.; Zaremski, Jason L.; Vincent, Heather K.] Univ Florida, Dept Orthopaed & Rehabil, Div Sports Med & Res, Gainesville, FL USA; [Tripp, Brady] Univ Florida, Coll Hlth & Human Performance, Gainesville, FL USA; [Wasser, Joseph G.] Walter Reed Natl Mil Med Ctr, Dept Rehabil, Bethesda, MD 20814 USA								16							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000573982900001	28	Article; Article		
J	Chu, Tsz Lun (Alan); Zhang, Xiaoxia; Lee, Joonyoung; Zhang, Tao								Perceived coach-created environment directly predicts high school athletes' physical activity during sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			70	80	1747954120959733	10.1177/1747954120959733			FEB 2021	2021	Sport participation is an important means for adolescents to achieve moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA), yet most high school students including athletes do not achieve the 60-minute daily MVPA guideline. As psychosocial factors influence athlete engagement and physical activity during sport, the perceived environment created by coaches could play a role in this influence. Guided by self-determination and achievement goal theories, this four-month prospective study examined the direct and indirect effects of perceived coach-created environment on high school athletes' MVPA and sedentary behavior (SB) during sport. During the third to fourth week of a sport season, 225 high school athletes (M-age = 15.24 years) completed a survey assessing perceptions of coach-created empowering and disempowering climates as well as psychological need satisfaction and frustration. Four months later, their MVPA and SB percentage times (%) during sport were measured using accelerometers. Path analyses partially supported our hypothesis, indicating significant direct effects of a perceived empowering climate on need satisfaction (beta = .41) and need frustration (beta = -.29), and direct effects of a perceived disempowering climate on need frustration (beta = .38) and MVPA% (beta = -.28). No significant indirect effects on MVPA% or SB% were found. Findings support and provide new insights into the important role of disempowering beyond empowering climates in predicting high school athletes' PA. Specifically, when coaches display ego-involving and controlling behaviors, high school athletes may disengage during sport and achieve less overall MVPA. Further examination of these relationships using a longitudinal design across more diverse samples is warranted.		[Chu, Tsz Lun (Alan)] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Psychol, Green Bay, WI 54311 USA; [Zhang, Xiaoxia] Univ Texas Arlington, Dept Kinesiol, Arlington, TX 76019 USA; [Lee, Joonyoung; Zhang, Tao] Univ North Texas, Dept Kinesiol Heath Promot & Recreat, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Chu, Tsz Lun (Alan)] Univ Wisconsin, MAC C309,2420 Nicolet Dr, Green Bay, WI 54311 USA								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000575510600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Salmon, Danielle M.; Romanchuk, Janelle; Sullivan, S. John; Walters, Simon; Clacy, Amanda; Register-Mihalik, Johna K.; Kerr, Zachary Y.; Whatman, Chris; Keung, Sierra								Concussion knowledge, attitude and reporting intention in rugby coaches and high school rugby players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			54	69	1747954120961200	10.1177/1747954120961200			FEB 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to evaluate New Zealand high school rugby union players' and community coaches' concussion knowledge (CK), concussion attitude (CA) and concussion reporting intentions (CRI) and to explore the impact gender, age, ethnicity, socio-economic status, experience, and concussion history had on these outcome measures. This cross-sectional study utilised the Rosenbaum Concussion Knowledge and Attitudes survey to evaluate CK, CA and CRI. The survey and demographic information were completed by 533 high school players (61.5% male,M = 16.2 yrs) and 733 community rugby coaches (93.0% male,M = 42.2 yrs). Coaches displayed greater awareness, safer attitudes, and stronger reporting intentions towards concussion than players. Among players, differences in CK, CA and CRI were observed by gender, ethnicity, and socio-economic status. Among coaches, differences in CRI were found by age and coaching experience. No differences were observed for age or concussion history in players. Gender, ethnicity, and grade coached were not significant for coaches. Players who identified as Maori or Pasifika and those from schools in low socio-economic areas displayed poorer CK and CA. Years of experience for both players and coaches played a critical role in improving CA and is a factor that should be considered when welcoming new participants to either role. Concussion non-disclosure is a systemic issue and is common across gender, ethnicity and socio-economic status and appears to worsen as the playing season progresses. More work is needed to develop educational strategies that are both culturally responsive, sustainable, and address reporting behaviours.		[Salmon, Danielle M.; Romanchuk, Janelle; Sullivan, S. John] New Zealand Rugby, Wellington, New Zealand; [Walters, Simon; Whatman, Chris; Keung, Sierra] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Sport & Recreat, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Clacy, Amanda] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sunshine Coast Mind & Neurosci Thompson Inst, Birtinya, Australia; [Register-Mihalik, Johna K.; Kerr, Zachary Y.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Matthew Gfeller Sport Related Traumat Brain Injur, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Register-Mihalik, Johna K.; Kerr, Zachary Y.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Register-Mihalik, Johna K.; Kerr, Zachary Y.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Salmon, Danielle M.] New Zealand Rugby Union, New Zealand Rugby, POB 2171, Wellington 6140, New Zealand								28							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000575466300001	85	Article; Article		
J	Koga, Daiki; Gonjo, Tomohiro; Kawai, Eisuke; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Sakai, Shin; Sengoku, Yasuo; Homma, Miwako; Takagi, Hideki								Effects of exceeding stroke frequency of maximal effort on hand kinematics and hand propulsive force in front crawl								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				23	1			15	27		10.1080/14763141.2020.1814852			JAN 2 2024	2024	This study aimed to assess kinematic and kinetic changes in front crawl with various stroke frequency (SF) conditions to investigate why swimming velocity (SV) does not increase above a certainSF(SFmax). Eight male swimmers performed 20 m front crawl four times. The first trial involved maximal effort, whereasSFwas controlled during the next three trials. The instructedSFs were 100 (T100%), 110 (T110%), and 120% (T120%) of theSF(max). Through pressure measurement and underwater motion analysis, hand propulsive force (calculated by the difference between the palm and dorsal pressure value and the hand area) and the angle of attack of the hand were quantified, and differences between trials were assessed by a repeated-measures ANOVA. There was no difference inSVbetween the conditions, while the angle of attack during the latter half of the underwater stroke atT120% was smaller by 25.7% compared withT100% (p= 0.007). The lower angle of attack induced a lower pressure value on the palm that consequently caused a smaller hand propulsive force atT120% thanT100% (p= 0.026). Therefore, the decrease in the angle of attack must be minimised to maintain the hand propulsive force.		[Koga, Daiki; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Sakai, Shin; Sengoku, Yasuo; Homma, Miwako; Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Kawai, Eisuke] Int Budo Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Katsuura, Japan; [Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan								37							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000573322900001	22	Article; Article		
J	von Felbert, Aaron; Breuer, Christoph								How the type of sports-related endorser influences consumers' purchase intentions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	3			588	607		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2020-0009			JUN 14 2021	2021	Purpose As the superiority of sports celebrities' endorsements has been questioned, the purpose of this study is to identify various types of endorsers' direct and indirect effects on consumers' purchase intentions. Design/methodology/approach Empirical data were collected from 240 useful responses to an online experiment, and research hypotheses were tested using (moderated) serial mediation analyses. Findings The study's findings indicate that an endorser has a positive influence on consumers' purchase intentions through their perceptions of the advertisement and the endorsed brand. A moderated serial mediation analysis finds differences in the four types of endorsers analyzed. A sports celebrity is the most effective type of endorser in increasing consumers' purchase intentions, whereas endorsements by company managers and peer consumers, while also positive, are less effective in influencing advertising outcomes. An expert's endorsement is comparable to that of a manager but not significant. Research limitations/implications The generalizability of the study's findings is limited because of a restricted data sample, the use of fictitious endorsers and the limited number of product categories and brands analyzed. Originality/value The study systematically analyzes the behavioral influence of four types of endorsers on consumers' purchase intentions, mediated by their perceptions of the advertisements and the endorsed brand. The results of this analysis extend the current state of endorsement research, indicating that endorsements should be integrated into companies' marketing strategies and provide marketing professionals practical guidance on which type of endorser is most effective in influencing advertising outcomes.		[von Felbert, Aaron; Breuer, Christoph] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [von Felbert, Aaron] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000574499600001	101	Article; Article		
J	Marathamuthu, Suresh; Selvanayagam, Victor Selvarajah; Yusof, Ashril								Contralateral Effects of Eccentric Exercise and DOMS of the Plantar Flexors: Evidence of Central Involvement								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	2			240	249		10.1080/02701367.2020.1819526			APR 3 2022	2022	Purpose: Peripheral and central factors play important roles in the reduction of motor performance following damaging eccentric exercise and delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS). Following this regime, contralateral limbs could also be affected; however, the factors involved remain inconclusive. The purpose of this study was to distinguish the peripheral and central factors following eccentric contraction and DOMS of the plantar flexors in treated and contralateral homologous limbs.Methods: Ten males (BMI = 25.08 +/- 1.69kgm(-2); age = 28.70 +/- 4.24 years) were randomly assigned to experimental (DOM) or control (CON) groups. The DOM group performed a damaging eccentric exercise, while the CON group rested. Plasma creatine kinase (CK), pain rating scale (PRS), muscle stiffness, maximal voluntary contraction (MVC), and neural voluntary activation (VA) were measured before, after 10 min, and after 24, 48, and 72 hr on treated and contralateral limbs.Results: Following exercise, CK increased until after 48 hr, while PRS increased until after 72 hr compared to the CON group. Importantly, MVC was reduced at all time points, with the greatest reduction observed after 24 hr (-16%), while VA was affected until after 48 hr, with the greatest reduction at after 10 min (-7%). Interestingly, a "cross-over effect" was observed in contralateral limbs when PRS, MVC, and VA were negatively affected following the same pattern (time line) as treated limbs (-13% peak MVC reduction; -3.5% peak VA reduction).Conclusion: These findings suggest a substantial central contribution to the reduction in force immediately following eccentric exercise and to a lesser extent during the latter part of DOMS in both treated and contralateral limbs.		[Marathamuthu, Suresh; Selvanayagam, Victor Selvarajah; Yusof, Ashril] Univ Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Marathamuthu, Suresh] Natl Sports Inst Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Yusof, Ashril] Univ Malaya, Ctr Sports & Exercise Sci, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000573111500001	49	Article; Article		
J	Donnelly, Samantha; Buchan, Duncan S.; McLellan, Gillian; Arthur, Rosie								Relationship Between Parent and Child Physical Activity Using Novel Acceleration Metrics								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			180	188		10.1080/02701367.2020.1817295			JAN 2 2022	2022	Background: Raw acceleration data lend themselves to innovative metrics in which comparisons can be made across populations. This study examined whether the intensity gradient (IG) or average acceleration (AvAcc) was associated with body mass index (BMI) in children and adults and explored parent-child associations between time spent in physical activity intensities and BMI.Methods: Parent-child dyads (n= 90) wore a wrist-mounted ActiGraph GT3X+ monitor for >= 3 valid days (i.e., >= 16 hrs each day). Participants' BMI was calculated.Results: Girls' BMI-z scores were positively associated with parent BMI and inactive time. Parent BMI was negatively associated with boys' inactive time. Parental inactive time predicted girls' BMI-z scores. The metrics were not associated with parent BMI, and no independent effects were observed between the metrics. Associations between boys' IG and BMI z-score were observed. No independent effects were observed between the metrics and no significant associations were observed between boys' BMI z-score and AvAcc. Girls' AvAcc and IG were not associated with BMI z-score and no independent effects were observed between the metrics.Conclusion: Findings support previous research which suggests that parent's activity does not influence their child's activity.		[Donnelly, Samantha; Buchan, Duncan S.; McLellan, Gillian; Arthur, Rosie] Univ West Scotland, Blantyre, Malawi; [Donnelly, Samantha] Univ West Scotland, Dept Sport & Exercise, Blantyre, Malawi								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572231700001	50	Article; Article		
J	Papadimitriou, Dimitra; Apostolopoulou, Artemisia; Branvold, Scott; Gargalianos, Dimitrios								Product meanings as drivers of sport consumer behavior: evidence from the Greek sport industry								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	3			529	549		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2020-0012			JUN 14 2021	2021	Purpose Building on existing sport licensing research from the North American market, the primary goal of this study was to explore meanings embedded in sport licensed products in the Greek sport market. The secondary goal was to examine the extent to which product meanings can predict favorable sport consumer behaviors. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected from football and basketball fans of the two biggest professional sport clubs in Greece. A total of 255 Greek fans completed the surveys. Data were analyzed using exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modeling. Findings The findings uncovered a 14-item solution to capture the meanings attached to sport licensed products in the Greek market, including four factors-sources: experience, socialization, aesthetics and locality. Meanings related to aesthetics and experience significantly and positively predicted customer satisfaction, word-of-mouth communication, purchase intention and willingness to pay a price premium for licensed products of one's favorite team. Practical implications From a practical standpoint, this study shows that sport licensed products need to be positioned in the market based on their aesthetic quality. Also, communication plans that associate these products with opportunities for unique experiences, relationships with other fans and a connection to one's local community can drive sales, especially in less developed sport markets such as Greece. Originality/value This research contributes to existing literature by highlighting the prominent role of the aesthetic appeal of team licensed products as well as the experience of sport consumers as sources of meaning and value for the owners of those products.		[Papadimitriou, Dimitra] Univ Patras, Dept Business Management, Patras, Greece; [Apostolopoulou, Artemisia; Branvold, Scott] Robert Morris Univ, Sch Business, Dept Sport Management, Moon Township, PA USA; [Gargalianos, Dimitrios] Democritus Univ Thrace, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Komotini, Greece; [Papadimitriou, Dimitra] Univ Patras, Dept Business Management, Patras, Greece								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000572367100001	84	Article; Article		
J	Evans, Brent A.; Pitts, Joshua D.; Clark, Chris								Is the NBA Summer League Predictive of Performance for NBA Rookies?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	2			164	182	1527002520959138	10.1177/1527002520959138			FEB 2021	2021	Using data from 2006 to 2019, we show that performance in the NBA Summer League can be used to predict regular season performance for NBA rookies. This result is indicated by general performance (win shares) and also by individual performance measures; for example, players who score more points than anticipated in the Summer League are also more proficient scorers as NBA rookies. Our findings suggest that NBA executives and coaches should use performance in the Summer League to inform personnel decisions. This study is the first of its nature and will hopefully encourage others to investigate the NBA Summer League.		[Evans, Brent A.; Clark, Chris] Georgia Coll & State Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, 402 Atkinson Hall, Milledgeville, GA 31061 USA; [Pitts, Joshua D.] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA; [Evans, Brent A.] Georgia Coll & State Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, 402 Atkinson Hall, Milledgeville, GA 31061 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000571830700001	14	Article; Article		
J	Schaun, Gustavo Z.; Alberton, Cristine L.								Using Bodyweight as Resistance Can Be a Promising Avenue to Promote Interval Training: Enjoyment Comparisons to Treadmill-Based Protocols								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			162	170		10.1080/02701367.2020.1817293			JAN 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Even though multiple training methods appear to be effective to improve cardiorespiratory fitness, they also need to be perceived as tolerable or enjoyable by exercisers to maximize long-term behavioral maintenance. Therefore, the purpose of the current study was to compare perceived enjoyment between whole-body interval training (SIT-WB), treadmill-based interval training (SIT-T) and moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT).Method: Forty-one healthy adult men (age: 23.7 +/- 0.7 years, height: 1.79 +/- 0.01 m, body mass: 78.5 +/- 1.7 kg; V?O-2max: 46.7 +/- 7.3 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)) were randomly assigned to SIT-WB, SIT-T, or MICT and underwent 16 weeks of training (3x/w). SIT-WB and SIT-T completed eight 20 s bouts interspersed by 10 s passive recovery, differing as to the exercise mode performed (i.e., calisthenics exercises and treadmill running, respectively) whereas MICT participants ran for 30 min at an intensity below the second ventilatory threshold. Perceived enjoyment was assessed 10 min post-exercise at weeks 1, 5, 9, 13, and 16, using the Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale.Results: Compliance was high (similar to 90%) across all three training groups (p= .803). All training modes were rated as enjoyable and no significant within- (F-(4,F- 152) = 1.132,p= .344) or between-group (F-(2,F- 38) = 0.662,p= .521) differences were found during the intervention period.Conclusions: These results suggest that SIT-WB can be employed as an enjoyable low-cost alternative to traditional treadmill-based SIT and MICT for up to 16 weeks.		[Schaun, Gustavo Z.; Alberton, Cristine L.] Univ Fed Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Schaun, Gustavo Z.] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Birmingham, AL USA; [Schaun, Gustavo Z.] Univ Fed Pelotas, Phys Educ Sch, Luis de Camo St 625, BR-96055630 Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Schaun, Gustavo Z.] Univ Fed Pelotas, Phys Educ Sch, Luis de Camo St 625, BR-96055630 Pelotas, RS, Brazil								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000571928300001	48	Article; Article		
J	Dorsch, Travis E.; Smith, Alan L.; Blazo, Jordan A.; Coakley, Jay; Cote, Jean; Wagstaff, Christopher R. D.; Warner, Stacy; King, Michael Q.								Toward an Integrated Understanding of the Youth Sport System								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			105	119		10.1080/02701367.2020.1810847			JAN 2 2022	2022	The aim of the present article is to outline a heuristic model that facilitates movement toward an integrated understanding of the youth sport system. We define theyouth sport systemas the set of interdependent persons and contexts that influence and are influenced by an athlete in youth sport. Our model builds directly from a systems perspective, and its tenets of holism, feedback loops, and roles. Specifically, we argue that the persons and contexts that surround an athlete in youth sport should be examined collectively, self-correct over time, and take on certain functions that are negotiated over time. The model extends past contributions toward integration by outlining how proximal and distal processes within youth sport can be studied in a more unified way. Looking forward, research designed to capture the nuanced ways persons and contexts influence and are influenced by one another in youth sport will be best positioned to impact theory and practice in meaningful ways.		[Dorsch, Travis E.; King, Michael Q.] Utah State Univ, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Smith, Alan L.] Michigan State Univ, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Blazo, Jordan A.] Louisiana Tech Univ, Ruston, LA USA; [Coakley, Jay] Univ Colorado, Colorado Springs, CO 80907 USA; [Cote, Jean] Queens Univ, Kingston, ON, Canada; [Wagstaff, Christopher R. D.] Univ Portsmouth, Portsmouth, Hants, England; [Warner, Stacy] East Carolina Univ, Greenville, NC USA; [Dorsch, Travis E.] Utah State Univ, Dept Human Dev & Family Studies, 2905 Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 USA								169							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000571949500001	121	Article; Article		
J	Leonel, Larissa dos Santos; Tozetto, Willen Remon; Delevatti, Rodrigo Sudatti; del Duca, Giovani Firpo								Effects of Combined Training With Linear Periodization and Non-Periodization on Sleep Quality of Adults With Obesity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			171	179		10.1080/02701367.2020.1817294			JAN 2 2022	2022	Background: Combined exercise training has proven effective in preventing and treating sleep disorders among obese adults. However, structured progression of intensity in sleep parameters remains poorly investigated within this population.Purpose: To verify the effects of non-periodized and linear periodization combined training on the sleep quality of obese adults.Methods: This was a randomized controlled trial involving adults with body mass index >= 30 kg/m2, allocated to 3 groups: control (CG;n= 13), non-periodized training (NG;n= 9), and with linear periodization (PG;n= 13). Groups PG and NG trained for 16 weeks in 3 weekly sessions lasting of 60 minutes. The NG trained in 50-59% heart rate reserve (HRR) e 2 x 10-12 repetition maximum (RM) and the PG with progression in 3 mesocycles: 40-49%;50-59%; 60-69% HRR e 2x12-14; 2x10-12; 2 x 8-10 RM, with the total volume equated. Sleep quality was evaluated by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. For statistics, we used Generalized Estimation Equations considering p <= 0.05.Results: Sleep latency was reduced in both training groups after intervention (NG-Delta = -25.56 minutesp= .028; PG-Delta = -22.23 minutesp= .035), while significant improvements in sleep efficiency were found only in the NG (Delta = 20.67%;p= .042).Conclusion: Despite the NG's apparent superiority, which model has the best sleep effects on obese adults cannot be stated. Hence, caution is needed while extrapolating the results.		[Leonel, Larissa dos Santos; Tozetto, Willen Remon; Delevatti, Rodrigo Sudatti; del Duca, Giovani Firpo] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Deputed Antonio Edu Vieira St,Adm Bldg Sports Ctr, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Leonel, Larissa dos Santos] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Deputed Antonio Edu Vieira St,Adm Bldg Sports Ctr, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000571920600001	35	Article; Article		
J	McGlone, Patrick J.; Li, Lambert T.; Bokshan, Steven L.; O'Donnell, Ryan; Owens, Brett D.								Preoperative malnutrition increases odds of hospital admission and extended length of stay following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			236	240		10.1080/00913847.2020.1824535			APR 3 2021	2021	Background Rotator cuff repair (RCR) is a common orthopedic procedure frequently performed in the outpatient setting. Malnutrition, as assessed by preoperative serum albumin <3.5 g/dL, has been independently associated with significantly higher risks of multiple adverse outcomes in several orthopedic procedures. The effect of preoperative hypoalbuminemia on short-term outcomes of RCR was previously unknown. Hypothesis we hypothesized that preoperative serum albumin Methods This study represents a retrospective analysis of the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database (NSQIP) for patients undergoing RCR between 2011 and 2015. Results Multivariate regression analysis adjusted for sex, ASA classification, age, BMI, and diabetes status (Table 3) showed preoperative hypoalbuminemia conferred a significantly increased adjusted odds ratio of postoperative admission (adjusted odds ratio 1.711, CI 1.134-2.583, p = 0.011) and extended length of stay (adjusted odds ratio 2.073, CI 1.073-4.003, p = 0.030). Conclusion Malnutrition as assessed by preoperative serum albumin		[McGlone, Patrick J.; Li, Lambert T.; Bokshan, Steven L.; O'Donnell, Ryan; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [McGlone, Patrick J.] Warren Alpert Sch Med, Providence, RI 02906 USA								15							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572219400001	26	Article; Article		
J	Doucette, Madeline M.; Du Plessis, Sane; Webber, Amanda M.; Whalen, Chelsea; Garcia-Barrera, Mauricio A.								In it to win it: Competitiveness, concussion knowledge and nondisclosure in athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			194	202		10.1080/00913847.2020.1807886			APR 3 2021	2021	Objectives Despite having a general understanding of concussions, many athletes choose not to report symptoms of a sports-related concussion (SRC) which leads to a larger burden on our healthcare system due to longer recoveries, more Emergency Department visits, and future medical appointments. Thus, there is a need to identify factors, such as competitiveness, that may help to better explain the nondisclosure of concussion symptoms. The current study aimed to investigate the role of athletes' concussion knowledge and competitiveness on concussion nondisclosure. Methods Participants included 161 Canadian athletes (ages 14-32; 71% male) participating in collision sports (American football, rugby, hockey), soccer or rowing. Concussion knowledge, reporting and competitiveness were measured using the Rosenbaum Concussion Attitude and Knowledge Survey and Sports Orientation Questionnaire (SOQ). Two logistic regression models were performed to explain both history and future intention of playing despite experiencing concussion symptoms. Results Age, sex, and concussion knowledge were not significant for the regression models. The SOQ scores (measuring competitiveness) were significant for both regression models, such that higher competitiveness was associated with increased likelihood for past nondisclosure (b=.03,p=.03, OR = 1.03 (97.5% CI: 1.003,1.06)) and future nondisclosure intention (b=.05,p=.00, OR = 1.05 (97.5% CI: 1.03,1.08)). Regarding concussion knowledge, soccer players had significantly higher knowledge than those in collision sports and rugby,F(2, 158) = 140.5,p=.00; female athletes had significantly higher knowledge than males,t(66) = -4.26,p=.00; age was negatively associated with concussion knowledge (r= -0.35,p< .01). Conclusion The results suggest that healthcare providers should be aware that athletes tend to have adequate concussion knowledge, but this knowledge does not explain past nondisclosure or future nondisclosure intention. Based on these findings, healthcare providers should focus on being able to identify highly competitive athletes who are most at risk of nondisclosure instead of exclusively aiming to increase concussion knowledge in athletes.		[Doucette, Madeline M.; Du Plessis, Sane; Webber, Amanda M.; Whalen, Chelsea; Garcia-Barrera, Mauricio A.] Univ Victoria, Dept Psychol, CORTEX Lab, Victoria, BC V8P 5C2, Canada; [Doucette, Madeline M.] Univ Victoria, Dept Psychol, CORTEX Lab, Victoria, BC V8P 5C2, Canada								14							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000571298200001	48	Article; Article		
J	Baker, Hayden P.; Mosenthal, William; Qin, Charles; Volchenko, Elan; Athiviraham, Aravind								Is average club head speed a risk factor for lower back injuries in professional golfers? A retrospective case control study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			214	218		10.1080/00913847.2020.1809968			APR 3 2021	2021	Background Our hypothesis was that higher average club head speed is correlated with lower back injuries in professional golfers. Methods This was a retrospective case control study of male professional golfers who suffered lower back injuries while playing golf. The injured group was composed of 14 Professional Golfers' Association (PGA) golfers who withdrew from a PGA tour event due to a back injury during the years 2017-2019. The case-control matching procedure was used to randomly match cases and controls with a 2:1 allocation ratio, respectively, based on age. Variables were chosen based on currently proposed risk factors. Data was statistically analyzed using SPSS 25 Results There were 14 PGA golfers who suffered lower back injuries during the years 2017-2019 who were included in this study. There was no significant difference in age, height, weight or BMI between the injured and control group. The injured group had a higher mean club head speed than the control group (P < 0.01). Conclusion This study found that average club head speed was significantly higher in PGA golfers who suffered back injuries while golfing during a two-year period (2017-2019) when compared with age-matched controls.		[Baker, Hayden P.; Mosenthal, William; Qin, Charles; Volchenko, Elan; Athiviraham, Aravind] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Baker, Hayden P.] Univ Chicago, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Chicago, IL 60637 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000571314100001	28	Article; Article		
J	Carroll, Mark; Allen, Justine								'Zooming in' on the antecedents of youth sport coaches' autonomy-supportive and controlling interpersonal behaviours: a multimethod study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			236	248	1747954120958621	10.1177/1747954120958621			APR 2021	2021	Grounded in self-determination theory and the motivational model of the coach-athlete relationship, the purpose of this study was to explore the antecedents of youth sport coaches' autonomy-supportive and controlling behaviours using a multimethod approach. Recreational level youth swimming and football coaches (N = 12) participated in semi-structured interviews and were observed leading a coaching session. Interviews were thematically analysed and coaching sessions were analysed using the multidimensional motivational climate observation system. Analysis of the triangulated data revealed that the coaches were both autonomy-supportive and controlling in their interactions with athletes, but predominantly autonomy-supportive. Coaches reported that they coached in this way due to factors associated with their personal orientation (significant others' influence, learning experiences, and beliefs about the role of the coach), the coaching context (time pressure), and perceptions of athletes' characteristics (readiness for autonomy, gender, and quality of motivation). The findings are discussed in relation to personal and social processes that may determine coaching behaviours, and suggestions for coach development and future research are noted.		[Carroll, Mark; Allen, Justine] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling, Scotland; [Carroll, Mark] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling, Scotland								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000571617100001	77	Article; Article		
J	Engist, Oliver; Merkus, Erik; Schafmeister, Felix								The Effect of Seeding on Tournament Outcomes: Evidence From a Regression-Discontinuity Design								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				22	1			115	136	1527002520955212	10.1177/1527002520955212			JAN 2021	2021	Seeding in tournaments is a process of creating a schedule based on performance in the recent past. It is used in many athletic disciplines to ensure that particularly attractive match ups do not occur until the later stages of the tournament. We exploit the discontinuous nature of the seeding system in the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Europa League as a natural experiment to estimate the causal effect of being seeded. We find no evidence that seeding itself contributes positively to the team's success in the tournament. This finding is surprising given the substantial drop in average strength of the opponents for seeded teams and in striking opposition to the findings of previous studies.		[Engist, Oliver; Merkus, Erik; Schafmeister, Felix] Stockholm Sch Econ, Dept Econ, Sveavagen 65, S-11350 Stockholm, Sweden; [Engist, Oliver] Stockholm Sch Econ, Dept Econ, Sveavagen 65, S-11350 Stockholm, Sweden								18							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000571156400001	18	Article; Article		
J	Klostermann, Andre; Schaerli, Andrea; Kunz, Svenja; Weber, Melanie; Hossner, Ernst-Joachim								Learn to Turn: Does Spotting Foster Skill Acquisition in Pirouettes?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			153	161		10.1080/02701367.2020.1813239			JAN 2 2022	2022	Purpose: The spotting technique (i.e., independent head from torso movement) has been revealed as the single feature that differentiates highly skilled from less-skilled dancers. In the current intervention study, the potential of a specific spotting training in novice dancers for learning double pirouettes was tested.Method: Novice dancers trained pirouettes in an experimental group and an active control group over a period of eight weeks by receiving either specific spotting instructions or technical instructions only. Pirouette performance was examined in a pretest, and a one-week-delayed retention test. In a further control test, effects of explicitly instructing how to perform the pirouettes (i.e., either with or without spotting) were investigated.Results: Different than expected, in the retention test, only few participants from the experimental group showed the spotting technique. Moreover, the spotting group did not perform better than the control group. Rather, the balance measure revealed that, while the control group improved over learning, the experimental group remained at the baseline values and showed a slight advantage for orientation only. In the control test, all groups showed inferior performance as compared to the retention test.Conclusion: In sum, the current findings show that-at least for beginners-the spotting technique is not suitable to be implemented in applied training settings. Moreover, in line with the expert performance approach, this study suggests to investigate the implementation of expert skills in applied training routines experimentally.		[Klostermann, Andre; Schaerli, Andrea; Kunz, Svenja; Weber, Melanie; Hossner, Ernst-Joachim] Univ Bern, Bern, Switzerland; [Klostermann, Andre] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000569437800001	23	Article; Article		
J	Vieira, Lucas Antunes Faria; Lattari, Eduardo; de Jesus Abreu, Marco Antonio; Rodrigues, Guilherme Moraes; Viana, Bruno; Machado, Sergio; Oliveira, Bruno Ribeiro Ramalho; Maranhao Neto, Geraldo de Albuquerque								Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) Improves Back-Squat Performance in Intermediate Resistance-Training Men								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			210	218		10.1080/02701367.2020.1815638			JAN 2 2022	2022	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of anodal tDCS applied over the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) on muscle endurance in the back-squat exercise.Methods: Eleven healthy males, intermediate in resistance training (RT), aged between 18 and 31 years (25.5 +/- 4.4 years) were recruited. In the initial visits (1st and 2nd visits), participants performed a 1RM test to determine the load in the back-squat exercise. Following the two initials visits, participants attended the lab for the two experimental conditions (anodal tDCS and sham), which were completed a week apart, with sessions randomly counterbalanced. The stimulation was applied over the DLPFC for 20 minutes using a 2 mA current intensity. Immediately after the experimental conditions, participants completed three sets of maximum repetitions (80% of 1RM), with a 1-minute recovery interval between each set in the back-squat exercise. Muscle endurance was determined by the total number of repetitions and the number of repetitions in each set.Results: The total number of repetitions was higher in the anodal tDCS condition compared to sham condition (p <= .0001). Moreover, the number of repetitions performed in the first set was higher for anodal tDCS condition than in the sham condition (p <= .01).Conclusion: This study found improvement in back-squat exercise performance after the application of anodal tDCS. The effects of anodal tDCS applied over DLPFC may be a promising ergogenic resource on muscle endurance in the back-squat exercise.		[Vieira, Lucas Antunes Faria; Lattari, Eduardo; de Jesus Abreu, Marco Antonio; Rodrigues, Guilherme Moraes; Machado, Sergio; Maranhao Neto, Geraldo de Albuquerque] Salgado Oliveira Univ UNIVERSO, Niteroi, RJ, Brazil; [Viana, Bruno] Augusto Mota Univ Ctr, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Machado, Sergio] Neurodivers Inst, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Oliveira, Bruno Ribeiro Ramalho] Rural Fed Univ Rio De Janeiro UFRRJ, Seropedica, Brazil; [Machado, Sergio] Salgado Oliveira Univ UNIVERSO, Phys Act Sci Postgrad Program, Phys Act Neurosci Lab, Niteroi, RJ, Brazil								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000569440500001	41	Article; Article		
J	Fortes, Leonardo S.; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Lima-Junior, Dalton; Ferreira, Maria E. C.; Fonseca, Fabiano S.								Does Social Media Use on Smartphones Influence Endurance, Power, and Swimming Performance in High-Level Swimmers?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			120	129		10.1080/02701367.2020.1810848			JAN 2 2022	2022	Objective: This study aimed to investigate the repeated effect of social media on smartphones immediately before training sessions on inhibitory control (Stroop task), endurance (tethered swimming), countermovement jump (CMJ), and swimming performance (50, 100, and 400-m freestyle) in high-level female swimmers.Methods: It is a randomized and experimental investigation with parallel groups. Twenty-two participants underwent the eight weeks of the experiment. The swimmers (eight to twelve sessions per week with 15.9 +/- 1.6 hours/week, and training experience of similar to 5.6 years) were randomized in two groups: control (CON,n= 11) and smartphone (SMA,n= 11). Immediately before each training session, the CON group watched videos about Olympic Games for 30-min. The SMA group used social network smartphone apps during 30-min. The inhibitory control, endurance, CMJ, and swimming performance were measured before and after the eight weeks of intervention.Results: No group x time interaction for 50-m freestyle (F-(4,F- 18) = 1.04;p= .33;eta(2) = 0.09) and CMJ performance (F-(4,F- 18) = 0.31;p= .58;eta(2) = 0.03) was found. Both experimental groups improved CMJ (F-(2,F- 20) = 8.71;p= .01;eta(2) = 0.46). Only the CON group improved the 100-m (p= .02), 400-m freestyle (p= .01), and endurance performance (p= .01). The CON group improved the inhibitory control response (p= .01).Conclusion: It is concluded that the repeated effect of social media on smartphones immediately before swimming training sessions might reduce or nullify training gains on swimming and endurance performance.		[Fortes, Leonardo S.; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Lima-Junior, Dalton; Ferreira, Maria E. C.] Univ Fed Paraiba, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Fonseca, Fabiano S.] Univ Fed Rural Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Ferreira, Maria E. C.] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Ave Marechal Hermes da Fonseca 584,Apartment 201, BR-58035190 Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000569439100001	43	Article; Article		
J	Knudsen, Nikolas Sten; Andersen, Thomas Bull								Morphology of possible regions in elite soccer players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	10			1334	1347		10.1080/14763141.2020.1797862			OCT 3 2023	2023	The popularity of spatio-temporal analyses in soccer is increasing. As many of these analyses depend on the regions a player can occupy in a certain amount of time (the possible regions), the understanding of this concepts is important for analyses to produce usable results. This study investigated how possible regions of soccer morph with varying times and running speeds. Twenty-four players from the Danish Superliga participated, and 13 players were analysed. The possible regions were analysed with times from 0.5 to 4 s (0.5 s increments) and initial velocities from 1 to 7 m/s (1 m/s increments). In this study, we showed that the possible regions can be described by ellipses (eccentricity of 0.5348 +/- 0.1912). When comparing the possible region ellipses at every time and velocity pair, 1.95 % of the ellipses were not significantly different from the others. In conclusion, possible regions are unique in shape and size depending on player running speed and time available. However, as only few strikers participated, the results for this group should be interpreted with caution. Coaches can predict possible regions based on these parameters increasing precision of post-game analyses.		[Knudsen, Nikolas Sten; Andersen, Thomas Bull] Aarhus Univ, Dept Publ Hlth Sport Sci, Aarhus, Denmark; [Andersen, Thomas Bull] Aarhus Univ, Dept Publ Hlth Sport Sci, Aarhus, Denmark								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000569442000001	20	Article; Article		
J	Peker, Alper Tunga; Boge, Veysel; Bailey, George; Wagman, Jeffrey B.; Stoffregen, Thomas A.								Perception of Affordances in Soccer: Kicking for Power Versus Kicking for Precision								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			144	152		10.1080/02701367.2020.1812494			JAN 2 2022	2022	Purpose: We investigated youth soccer players' perception of affordances for different types of kicks.Method: In the Power task, players judged the maximum distance they could kick the ball. In the Precision task, players judged how close to a designated target line they could kick the ball. Following judgments, players performed each task. Both judgments and performance were assessed immediately before and immediately after players competed in a regulation soccer match, thereby permitting us to assess possible effects of long-term experience on perceptual sensitivity to short-term changes in ability. We compared players from two league groups: U16 (mean age = 15.45 years, SD = 0.52 years) versus U18 (mean age = 17.55 years, SD = 0.52 years).Results: As expected, for the Power task actual kicking ability was greater for the U18 group (p< .05). In statistically significant interactions, we found that judgments of Power kicking ability differed before versus after match play, but only for the U16 group. We found no statistically significant effects for the Precision task.Conclusions: We identified interactions between long-term and short-term soccer experience which revealed that the effects of long-term experience on affordance perception were not general. Two additional years of playing experience (in the U18 group, relative to the U16 group) did not lead to an overall improvement in the perception of kicking-related affordances. Rather, variation in long-term experience was associated with changes in affordance perception which were situation-specific, being manifested only after playing a soccer match, and not before.		[Peker, Alper Tunga; Bailey, George; Stoffregen, Thomas A.] Univ Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Boge, Veysel] Selcuk Univ, Konya, Turkey; [Wagman, Jeffrey B.] Illinois State Univ, Normal, IL 61761 USA; [Stoffregen, Thomas A.] Univ Minnesota, Sch Kinesiol, 1900 Univ Ave SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000569217500001	28	Article; Article		
J	Solomito, Matthew J.; Cohen, Andrew D.; Garibay, Erin J.								Influence of stride length on upper extremity joint moments and ball velocity in collegiate baseball pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	11			1460	1469		10.1080/14763141.2020.1809698			NOV 2 2023	2023	The initial stride down the mound is an important aspect of the baseball pitch. Understanding the implications of stride length is essential to appropriately coach baseball pitchers. The purpose of this study was to determine the association between normalised stride length and the elbow varus and glenohumeral internal rotation moments, ball velocity, trunk and pelvic rotation and forward trunk tilt. Motion analysis data collected from 99 collegiate pitchers were analysed for this study. A random intercept, mixed-effects regression model was used to determine if there were statistically significant associations between normalised stride length and the variables of interest. Secondary analyses were conducted to determine if an optimal stride length existed in this cohort. No significant associations were found between normalised stride length, ball velocity, or upper extremity joint moments. Additionally, no optimal stride length was identified; however, trends indicate that stride lengths between 131%-137% of a pitcher's leg length may be beneficial. Normalised stride length was associated with both trunk and pelvic rotation at foot contact (p < 0.001). Trunk and pelvic rotation has been previously shown to be associated with ball velocity and joint moments, indicating that stride length may have an indirect effect on ball velocity and joint moments.		[Solomito, Matthew J.; Cohen, Andrew D.; Garibay, Erin J.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Orthoped & Sports Med Res, Farmington, CT 06032 USA; [Solomito, Matthew J.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Orthoped & Sports Med Res, Farmington, CT 06032 USA								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000567970600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Knudson, Duane								A tale of two instructional experiences: student engagement in active learning and emergency remote learning of biomechanics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	11			1485	1495		10.1080/14763141.2020.1810306			NOV 2 2023	2023	This study documents student engagement in face-to-face low-tech active learning and student perceptions of emergency remote instruction due to the COVID-19 pandemic in introductory biomechanics. Students in two classes received 8 weeks of face-to-face instruction with five low-tech active learning techniques and then received 6 weeks of emergency remote, online instruction. Learning was measured using pre-test and post-test administrations of the biomechanics concept inventory (BCI). A survey of engagement in active learning with additional questions on active learning and online instruction were collected with the post-test. No student perceptions of engagement inactive learningor online instruction were correlated with learning measured by normalised gain. Student's perception of the 'value of group activity' factor from survey was significantly correlated (r(2) = 12%) with the number of students typically in active learning groups. There was a significant correlation (r(2) = 46%) between student perception of reading the textbook before online video lessons and perception of value of the video lessons in the online portion of the course. Most students (59%) preferred face-to-face instruction in biomechanics. While up to 28% of students may have reported resistance to group-based active learning, low-tech active learning significantly improved mastery of biomechanics concepts above levels previously reported for lecture alone.		[Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000569178400001	45	Article; Article		
J	Stevinson, Clare; Plateau, Carolyn R.; Plunkett, Stephanie; Fitzpatrick, Elliot J.; Ojo, Mosope; Moran, Megan; Clemes, Stacy A.								Adherence and Health-Related Outcomes of Beginner Running Programs: A 10-Week Observational Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			87	95		10.1080/02701367.2020.1799916			JAN 2 2022	2022	Purpose: This study aimed to explore the determinants of adherence and assess changes in fitness and health outcomes in participants of group-based beginner running programs.Methods: Participants completed adherence diaries (n = 34) during the 10-week program, and underwent fitness and health testing (n = 20) at the program start and end. Diaries included weekly visual analogue scales of enjoyment, motivation, confidence, fatigue, satisfaction, and support along with a record of training sessions. Space was provided for free-text comments. Fitness was assessed by the multi-stage 20-m shuttle run test, and measurements were taken of resting heart rate, blood pressure, body composition, and free-living physical activity.Results: Overall adherence to the 10-week program was 53 +/- 27% with injury the most common reason for missing sessions and for discontinuing training. Adherence to group sessions was positively correlated with enjoyment, motivation, confidence, satisfaction with progress, and social support. Qualitative analysis of diary entries indicated three distinct themes (self-awareness, social support, personal challenge) underlying progression through the program. Significant changes were observed after 10 weeks in distance run on the fitness test (+189 +/- 133 m), body mass index (-0.54 +/- 0.72 kg/m(2)), and percentage body fat (-1.5 +/- 1.6%). Blood pressure, resting heart rate, and physical activity were unchanged.Conclusion: Engagement in beginner running programs was associated with improvements in cardiorespiratory fitness and body composition within 10 weeks. A larger and longer-term study is required to determine if these programs can lead to sustained engagement in running and additional health benefits.		[Stevinson, Clare; Plateau, Carolyn R.; Plunkett, Stephanie; Fitzpatrick, Elliot J.; Ojo, Mosope; Moran, Megan; Clemes, Stacy A.] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Clemes, Stacy A.] NIHR Leicester Biomed Res Ctr, Leicester, Leics, England; [Stevinson, Clare] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000567572700001	46	Article; Article		
J	Fu, You; Burns, Ryan D.; Hsu, Ya-Wen; Zhang, Peng								Motivation, Segmented Physical Activity, Sedentary Behavior, and Weight Status in Adolescents: A Path Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			204	209		10.1080/02701367.2020.1804520			JAN 2 2022	2022	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine the relationships linking motivational variables with BMI percentile (BMI%) via segmented physical activity (PA) and sedentary behavior (SB) in adolescents using path analysis.Method: Secondary data analysis was performed using participants from the Family, Life, Activity, Sun, Health, and Eating (FLASHE) study. A non-probability panel balanced to the US population on sex, Census division, household income and size, and race/ethnicity were screened for eligibility. The final sample consisted of 1,643 adolescents (822 girls, 821 boys). Motivational variables consisted of PA enjoyment, self-efficacy, and peer social support. Mediator variables consisted of segmented weekly PA and SB assessed using the Youth Activity Profile (YAP). BMI% was the outcome. A recursive bootstrapped path analysis was conducted to examine the relationships between motivational variables, segmented PA and SB, and BMI% with indirect effects calculated via bootstrapped mediation analyses.Results: The relationships between motivational variables and segmented PA and SB were stronger than relationships between segmented PA and SB and BMI%. Three mediated paths were observed: self-efficacy and BMI% using sedentary YAP as the mediator (IE = -0.38, 95%CI: -0.65, -0.18), enjoyment and BMI% using weekend YAP as the mediator (IE = -0.62, 95%CI: -1.14, -0.12) and social support and BMI% using weekend YAP as the mediator (IE = -0.53, 95%CI: -1.00, -0.07).Conclusion: The relationship between adolescent motivational variables and segmented PA and SB is relatively strong and specific motivational variables' relationships with BMI% is mediated through segmented PA and SB.		[Fu, You; Hsu, Ya-Wen] Univ Nevada, Reno, NV 89557 USA; [Burns, Ryan D.] Univ Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA; [Zhang, Peng] East Stroudsburg Univ, East Stroudsburg, PA USA; [Fu, You] Univ Nevada, Sch Community Hlth Sci, Reno, NV 89557 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000567587600001	23	Article; Article		
J	Joo, Soyoung; Koo, Jakeun; Nichols, Bridget Satinover								Understanding consumer attitudes in cause-brand alliances in sports: the role of sport entity attitudes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	3			507	528		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2019-0142			JUN 14 2021	2021	Purpose This study examines the effects of congruence and reliability on cause-brand alliance (CBA) program attitudes-exploring how CBA program attitudes and sport entity attitudes affect attitudes toward a sport-related and sport-unrelated brand in a single CBA. Design/methodology/approach About 240 survey participants answered questions before and after being exposed to information about the NFL Play 60 program. Consistent partial least squares structural equation modeling is utilized to test the hypotheses. Findings Results suggest both congruence and reliability positively influence CBA program success; and both sport-related and sport-unrelated brands positively affect consumer attitudes when they participate in a CBA with a high-profile sport entity. This occurs directly through CBA program attitudes for a sport-unrelated brand and indirectly through sport entity attitudes for a sport-related brand. Originality/value This study extends the CBA literature in sports by showing (1) the role of reliability on CBA program attitudes, (2) the role of sport entity attitudes on other cause partner attitudes and (3) different paths for sport-related versus sport-unrelated brands that are partnered with a premium sport entity to achieve CBA program brand enhancements.		[Joo, Soyoung] Siena Coll, Sch Business, Dept Mkt, Loudonville, NY 12211 USA; [Koo, Jakeun] Texas Southern Univ, Jesse H Jones Sch Business, Dept Business Adm, Houston, TX 77004 USA; [Nichols, Bridget Satinover] Northern Kentucky Univ, Haile US Bank Coll Business, Dept Mkt Sports Business & Construct Management, Highland Hts, KY USA; [Joo, Soyoung] Siena Coll, Sch Business, Dept Mkt, Loudonville, NY 12211 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000569160000001	77	Article; Article		
J	Freitas, Rui; Volossovitch, Anna; Almeida, Carlos H.								Associations of situational and performance variables with defensive transitions outcomes in FIFA World Cup 2018								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			131	147	1747954120953666	10.1177/1747954120953666			FEB 2021	2021	Transition moments play a major role in match outcome and constitute an important part of the soccer coaching process. Nevertheless, the body of literature on match analysis reveals a lack of knowledge regarding transition moments, particularly the defensive ones. This study aimed to analyse how several situational and performance variables were associated with different defensive transition outcomes. A sample of 977 defensive transitions from 15 matches of FIFA World Cup 2018 was coded using a bespoke observational system. Data were analysed through log-linear modelling and Pearson's chi-square. Regarding performance variables,final position(p <= 0.001; ES = 0.390[>= 0.290]; large effect size),duration(p <= 0.001; ES = 0.206[0.07; 0.21]), defensive approach(p <= 0.001; ES = 0.419[0.30; 0.50]), defensive pressure(p <= 0.001; ES = 0.147[0.05; 0.15]; medium effect sizes),numerical relations(p <= 0.05; ES = 0.113[0.07; 0.21]), initial position(p <= 0.05; ES = 0.092[0.06; 0.17]), initial number of zones(p <= 0.05; ES = 0.083[0.05; 0.15]), final number of zones(p <= 0.001; ES = 0.112[0.05; 0.15]) anddefensive coverage(p <= 0.001; ES = 0.130[0.05; 0.15]; small effect sizes) were significantly associated with the defensive transitions outcomes. A small-sized and non-significant association (p = 0.126; ES = 0.080[0.07; 0.21]) was found fortype of ball loss. Concerning the situational variables, a small-sized and significant association betweenmatch outcomeand defensive transitions outcome was identified (p <= 0.05; ES = 0.092[0.07; 0.21]). Our findings provide new knowledge on factors that influence team success in defensive transitions. The coaching staff should be aware that the exploitation of areas behind the most retreated player of the midfield sector ought to be avoided. Furthermore, a reduction in the space available to ball carriers and an increased effort to quickly recover possession should be encouraged.		[Freitas, Rui; Volossovitch, Anna] Univ Lisbon, SpertLab, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Almeida, Carlos H.] ISMAT Inst Super Manuel Teixeira Gomes, CIDEF, Portimao, Portugal; [Freitas, Rui] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, SpertLab, Lisbon, Portugal								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000568799800001	39	Article; Article		
J	Kao, San-Fu; Tsai, Chou-Yu; Schinke, Robert								Investigation of the interaction between coach transformational leadership and coaching competency change over time								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			44	53	1747954120953946	10.1177/1747954120953946			FEB 2021	2021	Drawing on social cognitive theory, we examined a cross-level interaction between coach transformational leadership and the within-individual change in evaluations of perceived coaching competency over a season. We applied linear growth modeling to analyze 246 collegiate competitive basketball players (147 males and 99 females from 24 teams). Our results revealed that coaches with high transformational leadership were evaluated as having a decrease in perceived coaching competency over time. In contrast, coaches with low transformational leadership were evaluated as having an increase in perceived coaching competency over time. Implications for coaching education in terms of theory and research are discussed.		[Kao, San-Fu] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Tsai, Chou-Yu] SUNY Binghamton, Sch Management, Bernard M & Ruth R Bass Ctr Leadership Studies, Binghamton, NY 13902 USA; [Schinke, Robert] Laurentian Univ, Sch Human Kinet, Sudbury, ON, Canada; [Kao, San-Fu] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, 521 Na Da Rd, Hsinchu 30014, Taiwan								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000567850900001	51	Article; Article		
J	Siqueira, Ionara Rodrigues; Basso, Carla Giovana; Pizzolato, Lolita Schneider; Cechinel, Laura Reck; Bertoldi, Karine; Dalpiaz, Morgana; de Souza, Maristela Padilha; Elsner, Viviane Rostirola								Correlation Between Inflammatory and Epigenetic Marks With Aerobic Performance in 10-km Runners								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			77	86		10.1080/02701367.2020.1798332			JAN 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Our goals were to evaluate the effect of a 10-km running trial on inflammatory and epigenetic markers of 10-km runners and correlate the biochemical findings with anthropometric variables and performance.Methods: Twenty trained 10-km runners and seven sedentary male volunteers were recruited. Venous blood samples were collected at different times: under resting conditions, before the 10 Km race, and immediately after the finish. Inflammatory markers (IL-6, IL-10, and IL-beta) and cortisol levels were evaluated in plasma, while DNA methyltransferases (DNMT1 and DNMT3b) contents were measured in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).Results: Higher levels of plasma IL-6 levels were observed in 10-km runners compared to the sedentary group. After the trial, the runners had a significant increase on IL-6, IL-10, and cortisol plasma levels compared to baseline.Conclusion: Our findings suggest that inflammatory profile, but not DNMT content, influences aerobic performance in 10-km runners.		[Siqueira, Ionara Rodrigues; Basso, Carla Giovana; Pizzolato, Lolita Schneider; Cechinel, Laura Reck; Bertoldi, Karine] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Dalpiaz, Morgana; de Souza, Maristela Padilha; Elsner, Viviane Rostirola] Ctr Univ Metodista IPA, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Siqueira, Ionara Rodrigues] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Inst Ciencias Basicas Saude, Dept Farmacol, Lab Neuropsicofarmacol, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000569030600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Sakuma, Toru; Kobayashi, Makoto; Kinoshita, Hiroaki; Matsui, Yasushi; Kobayashi, Yasuto; Watanabe, Masahiro								Three-dimensional kinematics analysis of blind football kicking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	9			1136	1152		10.1080/14763141.2020.1787499			SEP 2 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to identify critical technical points that lead to increased ball speed in a maximal toe kick with no run-up (a 'static kick') in blind football. Six visually impaired male players and eight sighted male players participated in the experiment. All participants wore a blindfold to fully remove visual information and performed the static kick. The motion was captured three-dimensionally using an optical motion analysis system. Our results demonstrated that ball speed, maximum linear velocity of the kicking-side thigh, and maximum angular velocity of the kicking-side shank for the sighted player group were significantly greater than those for the visually impaired player group. The sighted players tended to perform the static kick in a similar motion pattern, which was characterised by a backwards rotation of the torso to adequately extend the kicking-side hip joint during the back-swing phase and a stable posture of the lower torso on the frontal plane during the forward-swing phase. This motion pattern is critical to both acceleration of the kicking-side foot and orientation of the foot for a more precise ball contact position.		[Sakuma, Toru; Kobayashi, Makoto; Kinoshita, Hiroaki; Matsui, Yasushi] Tsukuba Univ Technol, Fac Hlth Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Kobayashi, Yasuto] Sakushin Gakuin Univ, Fac Business & Publ Adm, Dept Sport Management, Utsunomiya, Tochigi, Japan; [Watanabe, Masahiro] Tsukuba Int Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Tsuchiura, Ibaraki, Japan; [Sakuma, Toru] Tsukuba Univ Technol, Fac Hlth Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000567013600001	40	Article; Article		
J	Bitzer, Alexander; Mikula, Jacob D.; Aziz, Keith T.; Best, Matthew J.; Nayar, Suresh K.; Srikumaran, Uma								Diabetes is an independent risk factor for infection after non-arthroplasty shoulder surgery: a national database study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			229	235		10.1080/00913847.2020.1811617			APR 3 2021	2021	Objectives Diabetes has been associated with poor healing and prior literature has shown worse functional outcomes in diabetic patients undergoing both open and arthroscopic shoulder surgery. However, the effects of diabetes on perioperative complications for patients undergoing non-arthroplasty type shoulder procedures are not well defined. The purpose of this study was to analyze the effects of diabetes on 30-day complications following non-arthroplasty shoulder surgery. Methods The American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program was used to identify patients who underwent open and arthroscopic shoulder procedures (excluding arthroplasty) from 2011 to 2018. Diabetic patients were identified and compared to a non-diabetic cohort. Demographic data and postoperative complications within 30 days were analyzed. Multivariable regression was used to determine the effect of diabetes on shoulder surgery. Results We identified 99,970 patients who underwent shoulder surgery in our cohort and 13.9% (13,857 patients) of these patients were diabetics. Within the diabetic cohort, 4,394 (31.7%) were insulin dependent. Diabetics were more likely to be older, female, and have a higher body mass index (P < 0.01). Diabetics had a higher rate of associated medial comorbidities (P < 0.05). Diabetics were less likely to be smokers and on average had shorter surgeries (P < 0.05). Univariate analysis showed that diabetes was associated with increased risk for infectious and other major and minor complications; however, multivariate regression revealed that diabetes was only independently associated with infection (OR 1.33, P = 0.38). Conclusion While diabetes is associated with increased likelihood of infection following shoulder surgery, absent commonly associated comorbidities, they are not at increased risk for other 30-day postoperative complications.		[Bitzer, Alexander; Mikula, Jacob D.; Aziz, Keith T.; Best, Matthew J.; Nayar, Suresh K.; Srikumaran, Uma] Johns Hopkins Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA; [Srikumaran, Uma] Johns Hopkins Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA								11							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000566612400001	67	Article; Article		
J	Kellison, Timothy; Orr, Madeleine								Climate vulnerability as a catalyst for early stadium replacement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	1			126	141		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2020-0076			MAR 29 2021	2021	Purpose Severe hazards associated with climate change are threatening human settlements, thereby requiring global cities to implement comprehensive climate adaptation strategies. For sports organizations, adaptive measures may include designing and constructing new stadiums. In this study, the authors explore climate change as a vehicle for urban transformation, particularly as it relates to the replacement of existing stadiums with new, more sustainable and resilient venues. Design/methodology/approach The authors employed a collective case study approach focusing on three recent cases of stadium replacement: Globe Life Field in Arlington, Texas; Oakland Ballpark in Oakland, California; and Marlins Park in Miami, Florida. These cases were selected because an official representative of each team made explicit references to some form of climate adaptation, though each ballpark faces a distinctive climate-related threat. Findings Each of the cases illustrates the various ways in which climate vulnerability may be deployed by teams and policymakers to replace professional sports stadiums. Although all three examples involved the replacement of an existing ballpark, only in the Texas case was climate adaptation openly cited as the primary reason for stadium replacement. Still, ballpark replacement plans in Oakland and Miami included significant and costly design features to protect the stadiums from extreme weather events. Originality/value This study applies the concept of climate vulnerability to illustrate a potential strategy to justify stadium replacement. As cities and metropolitan regions continue to grapple with the grand challenge of climate change, the associated vulnerability of large public assembly facilities such as major sports stadiums - particularly those prominently situated in urban centers - can no longer be ignored.		[Kellison, Timothy] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Orr, Madeleine] SUNY Coll Cortland, Cortland, NY USA; [Kellison, Timothy] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000565942700001	76	Article; Article		
J	Augustus, Simon; Amca, Arif Mithat; Hudson, Penny E.; Smith, Neal								Choice of low-pass filter influences practical interpretation of ball kicking motions: the effect of a time-frequency filter method								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	11			1412	1429		10.1080/14763141.2020.1805507			NOV 2 2023	2023	When studying ball kicking, conventional low-pass filters may distort kick leg kinematics near the time of foot-to-ball contact, leading to flawed practical interpretation of the skill. Time-frequency filters are a viable alternative but are not widely used. This study compared a fractional Fourier filter (FrFF) with conventional filters (CF) methods for estimating common parameters used to define kicking performance. Instep kicks from 23 experienced soccer players were captured by 3D motion analysis (1000 Hz), and kick leg foot velocities, knee angular velocities and ankle dorsi-plantarflexion angles compared between the FrFF and variations of a Butterworth CF. The FrFF and CFs using a higher cut-off frequency (>70 Hz) successfully detected lower leg motion prior to, during and following impact, whereas CFs with low cut-off frequencies (<20 Hz) attenuated motion near impact. Truncating data at impact provided valid pre-impact kinematics, but ignored information thereafter. Rather than decelerating the lower leg to conserve accuracy, 'kicking through the ball' should be considered a valid coaching cue. Further, controlling ankle plantar flexion to ensure efficient impact mechanics may be important for skilled kicking. Practitioners should consider how choice of filter will affect their data, and use of time-frequency methods can help inform empirically grounded coaching practices.		[Augustus, Simon; Hudson, Penny E.; Smith, Neal] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Chichester, England; [Amca, Arif Mithat] Hacettepe Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Ankara, Turkey; [Augustus, Simon] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Chichester, England								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000565013800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Akuzawa, Hiroshi; Imai, Atsushi; Iizuka, Satoshi; Matsunaga, Naoto; Kaneoka, Koji								Contribution of the tibialis posterior and peroneus longus to inter-segment coordination of the foot during single-leg drop jump								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	11			1430	1443		10.1080/14763141.2020.1806347			NOV 2 2023	2023	Abnormal foot motion is considered to be related to sports related injuries. This study aimed to identify the relationship between calf muscle activity and inter-segment coordination of the foot during single-leg drop jumps. Eleven healthy men participated and performed single-leg drop jumps from a 30-cm box. Muscle activity of the tibialis posterior (TP), flexor digitorum longus, peroneus longus (PL) and gastrocnemius were measured. The rearfoot and midfoot segment angle from landing to leaping were calculated according to the Rizzoli Foot Model and time scaled to 100%. A modified vector coding technique was employed to classify inter-segment coordination of every 1% into four patterns (in-phase, anti-phase, rearfoot phase,and midfoot phase). The relationship between percentage of each pattern and muscle activity levels were statistically analysed with correlation coefficient. The TP showed a significant positive correlation with percentage of in-phase in coronal plane (r= 0.61,p= 0.045). The PL also showed a trend of positive correlation to in-phase in coronal plane (r= 0.59,p= 0.058). TP and PL muscle activities may modulate the inter-segment coordination between the rearfoot and midfoot in coronal plane. Clinically, these muscles should be assessed for abnormal inter-segment foot motion.		[Akuzawa, Hiroshi; Iizuka, Satoshi; Kaneoka, Koji] Japan Inst Sport Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Imai, Atsushi] Aichi Shukutoku Univ, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Nagakute, Aichi, Japan; [Matsunaga, Naoto] Seigakuin Univ, Gen Educ Core Curriculum Div, Saitama, Japan; [Matsunaga, Naoto] Waseda Univ, Waseda Inst Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Kaneoka, Koji] Japan Inst Sport Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Saitama, Japan								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564032100001	46	Article; Article		
J	Bailey, Joshua P.; Dufek, Janet S.; Freedman Silvernail, Julia; Navalta, James; Mercer, John								Understanding the influence of perceived fatigue on coordination during endurance running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	5			618	632		10.1080/14763141.2018.1508489			SEP 2 2020	2020	During the course of a training programme, runners will typically increase running velocity and volume possibly encountering fatigue during a run, which is characterised as a feeling of general tiredness. The purpose of the current study was to identify whether or not level of perceived fatigue affects coordination and coordination variability in healthy runners during the recovery velocity of an endurance interval run. A total of 20 endurance runners completed a 1-hour run that included running velocity intervals at 75% of estimated 10 k race pace (5 minutes) and estimated 10 k race pace (1 minute). After each run, participants completed a fatigue questionnaire and were grouped based on their post-run self-reported perceived fatigue. 3D motion capture data were collected during the run and analysed to generate coordination patterns and variability of the patterns as dependent variables. Multiple mixed model ANOVAs were conducted to test for differences between perceived fatigue groups. Coordination and variability differences were reported in a number of couplings during transition phases (late and early stance) and events (toe-off and foot contact) of the gait cycle. It was concluded that the level of perceived fatigue affected coordination and coordination variability during the recovery velocity of a 1-hour interval run.		[Bailey, Joshua P.] Univ Idaho, Dept Movement Sci, Moscow, ID 83843 USA; [Dufek, Janet S.; Freedman Silvernail, Julia; Navalta, James; Mercer, John] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Bailey, Joshua P.] Univ Idaho, Dept Movement Sci, Moscow, ID 83843 USA								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564300200005	30	Article; Article		
J	Ervilha, Ulysses Fernandes; Fernandes, Fernando de Moraes; de Souza, Camila Carvalho; Hamill, Joseph								Reaction time and muscle activation patterns in elite and novice athletes performing a taekwondo kick								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	5			665	677		10.1080/14763141.2018.1515244			SEP 2 2020	2020	Fractionated reaction time can be used to determine distinct epochs known as pre-motor, response and movement times (MTs) of a reaction time task. The purpose of this study was to compare elite and novice athletes performing a taekwondo kick in terms of the fractionated reaction time and electromyography (EMG) activation patterns of the muscles of the striking lower limb and the lower back. We hypothesised that the pre-motor time, response time (RT) and MT would be the shorter for elite athletes compared to novices. We collected data on 13 elite and 10 novice athletes when performing a roundhouse kick. The experiment included EMG electrodes placed on five low back and lower extremity muscles and an electrogoniometer placed on the kicking knee. We found that pre-motor time was shorter and the RT was longer for elite athletes than novice athletes. Moreover, the integrated EMG of the main knee extensor does not differ between groups though other leg and trunk muscles do. The results allow coaches and teachers to understand this particular taekwondo kicking movement which could ultimately improve the technique in order to establish training and teaching goals.		[Ervilha, Ulysses Fernandes; de Souza, Camila Carvalho] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Fernandes, Fernando de Moraes] Univ Sao Judas Tadeu, Sch Phys Educ, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Hamill, Joseph] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Kinesiol, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Ervilha, Ulysses Fernandes] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								36							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564300200008	24	Article; Article		
J	Sinsurin, Komsak; Vachalathiti, Roongtiwa; Srisangboriboon, Sarun; Richards, Jim								Knee joint coordination during single-leg landing in different directions								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	5			652	664		10.1080/14763141.2018.1510024			SEP 2 2020	2020	Knee joint coordination during jump landing in different directions is an important consideration for injury prevention. The aim of the current study was to investigate knee and hip kinematics on the non-dominant and dominant limbs during landing. A total of 19 female volleyball athletes performed single-leg jump-landing tests in four directions; forward (0 degrees), diagonal (30 degrees and 60 degrees) and lateral (90 degrees) directions. Kinematic and ground reaction force data were collected using a 10-camera Vicon system and an AMTI force plate. Knee and hip joint angles, and knee angular velocities were calculated using a lower extremity model in Visual3D. A two factor repeated measures ANOVA was performed to explore limb dominance and jump direction. Significant differences were seen between the jump directions for; angular velocity at initial contact (p < 0.001), angular velocity at peak vertical ground reaction force (p < 0.001), and knee flexion excursion (p = 0.016). Knee coordination was observed to be poorer in the early phase of velocity-angle plot during landing in lateral direction compared to forward and diagonal directions. The non-dominant limb seemed to have better coordination than the dominant limb during multi-direction jump landing. Therefore, dominant limbs appear to be at a higher injury risk than non-dominant limbs.		[Sinsurin, Komsak; Vachalathiti, Roongtiwa; Srisangboriboon, Sarun] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech & Sports Res Unit, Salaya, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Richards, Jim] Univ Cent Lancashire, Allied Hlth Res Unit, Preston, Lancs, England; [Vachalathiti, Roongtiwa] Mahidol Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Biomech & Sports Res Unit, Salaya, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand								23							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564300200007	28	Article; Article		
J	Budarick, Aleksandra R.; Shell, Jaymee R.; Robbins, Shawn M. K.; Wu, Tom; Renaud, Philippe J.; Pearsall, David J.								Ice hockey skating sprints: run to glide mechanics of high calibre male and female athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	5			601	617		10.1080/14763141.2018.1503323			SEP 2 2020	2020	The skating acceleration to maximal speed transition (sprint) is an essential skill that involves substantial lower body strength and effective propulsion technique. Coaches and athletes strive to understand this optimal combination to improve performance and reduce injury risk. Hence, the purpose of this study was to compare body centre of mass and lower body kinematic profiles from static start to maximal speed of high calibre male and female ice hockey players on the ice surface. Overall, male and female skaters showed similar centre of mass trajectories, though magnitudes differed. The key performance difference was the male's greater peak forward skating speed (8.96 +/- 0.44 m/s vs the females' 8.02 +/- 0.36 m/s,p < 0.001), which was strongly correlated to peak leg strength (R-2 = 0.81). Males generated greater forward acceleration during the initial accelerative steps, but thereafter, both sexes had similar stride-by-stride accelerations up to maximal speed. In terms of technique, males demonstrated greater hip abduction (p = 0.006) and knee flexion (p = 0.026) from ice contact to push off throughout the trials. For coaches and athletes, these findings underscore the importance of leg strength and widely planted running steps during the initial skating technique to achieve maximal skating speed over a 30 m distance.		[Budarick, Aleksandra R.; Shell, Jaymee R.; Renaud, Philippe J.; Pearsall, David J.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Fac Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M. K.] Constance Lethbridge Rehabil Ctr, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M. K.] McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Fac Med, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Wu, Tom] Bridgewater State Univ, Dept Movement Arts Hlth Promot & Leisure Studies, Bridgewater, MA USA; [Budarick, Aleksandra R.] McGill Univ, McGill Res Ctr Phys Act & Hlth, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Budarick, Aleksandra R.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Fac Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Budarick, Aleksandra R.] McGill Univ, McGill Res Ctr Phys Act & Hlth, Montreal, PQ, Canada								46							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564300200004	31	Article; Article		
J	Park, Sang-Hyuk; Lim, Bong-Suk; Lim, Seung-Taek								The Effects of Self-Talk on Shooting Athletes' Motivation								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			517	521					SEP 2020	2020	Self-talk is helpful in motivating shooting athletes and promoting effortful behavior. This study aimed to examine how the degree and intensity of self-talk of shooting athletes during matches affects their actual internal motivation and careers. In particular, the primary objective was to determine the effects of the level and intensity of self-talk on the effort value, fun and interest, tension and anxiety, and competence of intrinsic motivation for different levels of achievement and athletic performance. One hundred seventy participants who were shooting athletes registered with the Korea Shooting Federation (national team, n = 55; high performance team, n = 62; general team, n = 53). The self-talk questionnaire was developed to measure the Test of Performance Strategies (TOPS). The intrinsic motivation scale developed and applicable to sports situations was used to measure the motivation of the shooting athletes. Significant differences were observed using MANOVA as well as the basic statistics of intrinsic motivation by self-talk. The intrinsic motivation self-talk was correlated to effort value, fun and interest, and competence. There was a significant relationship between shooting athletes' self-talk and intrinsic motivation. This study indicated that athletes using self-talk experienced more fun and interest, and they perceived higher effort value and competence. Further, the multiple regression analysis revealed that self-talk affected the intrinsic motivational factors of effort value and fun and interest.		[Park, Sang-Hyuk] Korea Inst Sport Sci KISS, Dept Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Lim, Bong-Suk] Korea Shooting Federat, Seoul, South Korea; [Lim, Seung-Taek] Kangwon Natl Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Gangwon Do, South Korea; [Lim, Seung-Taek] Waseda Univ, Waseda Inst Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Lim, Seung-Taek] Nasaret Int Hosp, Incheon, South Korea; [Lim, Seung-Taek] Kangwon Natl Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Gangwon Do, South Korea								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600009	32	Article; Article		
J	Benavides-Ubric, Alejandro; Diez-Fernandez, David M.; Rodriguez-Perez, Manuel A.; Ortega-Becerra, Manuel; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando								Analysis of the Load-Velocity Relationship in Deadlift Exercise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			452	459					SEP 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to analyze the relationship between movement velocity and relative load (%IRM) in the deadlift exercise. Fifty men (age = 23.8 +/- 3.6 years, body mass = 78.2 +/- 8.3 kg, height = 1.78 +/- 0.06 m) performed a first evaluation (T1) consisting of a one-repetition maximum (IRM) test. Forty-two subjects performed a second evaluation (T2) after 6 weeks. Mean (MV), mean propulsive (MPV) and peak (PV) velocity measures of the concentric phase were analyzed. Load-velocity relationships were studied by fitting first order equations to the data using loads from 30-100% of IRM. A comprehensive set of statistics for assessing bias and level of agreement to estimate the IRM value from the different models was used. Stability of these relationships was assessed using the coefficient of variation (CV) and the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). General load-velocity equations provided good adjustments (R-2 similar to 0.91-0.93), however individual load-velocity regressions provided better adjustments (R-2 similar to 0.97). Individual estimations also showed higher agreement and more regular variation than general equations. Moreover, MPV showed smaller bias than the other velocity parameters (MV and PV). The stability analysis of the load-velocity relationships resulted in ICC values higher than 0.82 and CV lower than 3.0%. Monitoring repetition velocity allows estimation of the % IRM in the deadlift exercise. More accurate predictions of relative load can be obtained when using individualized regression equations instead of general equations.		[Benavides-Ubric, Alejandro; Rodriguez-Perez, Manuel A.] Univ Almeria, CERNEP Res Ctr, SPORT Res Grp CTS 1024, Almeria, Spain; [Diez-Fernandez, David M.; Ortega-Becerra, Manuel; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Rodriguez-Perez, Manuel A.] Univ Almeria, Dept Educ, Almeria, Spain; [Rodriguez-Perez, Manuel A.] Univ Almeria, CERNEP Res Ctr, Dept Educ, SPORT Res Grp CTS 1024, Almeria, Spain								59							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600002	36	Article; Article		
J	Zawadka, Magdalena; Smolka, Jakub; Skublewska-Paszkowska, Maria; Lukasik, Edyta; Gawda, Piotr								How Are Squat Timing and Kinematics in The Sagittal Plane Related to Squat Depth?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			500	507					SEP 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to analyze the relationship of range of motion (ROM) in the sagittal plane and timing parameters during a bodyweight squat to the depth of the squat. Sixty participants (20 females and 40 males) took part in this study. They were instructed to perform a bodyweight squat to the maximal depth position. Kinematic data were obtained using the optical motion capture system. The time for the descent phase of squatting was normalized from 0% (initial position, start of movement) to 100% (squat position-stop of movement). The ROM of ankle, knee, hip, pelvis and spine in the sagittal plane and the normalized time when the maximum joint angles occurred during the descent were analyzed to investigate the relationship between them and the squat depth in males and females. The knee ROM contributed most significantly, from all joints to squatting depth in both females and males (r = 0.92, p < 0.001). The squat depth was related to lumbar, hip and knee motion in females and to all kinematics parameters in males. Maximal ankle dorsiflexion and pelvis anterior tilt were reached earlier than the maximal angles of knee, hip and spine during squatting. Pelvis and ankle timing was negatively correlated with the squat depth (r(s) = -0.64, p < 0.001 and r(s) = -0.29, p = 0.02, respectively). This suggests that pelvis and ankle timing can be important to keeping balance during squatting and can lead to achieving the desired depth.		[Zawadka, Magdalena; Gawda, Piotr] Med Univ Lublin, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Med, Chodzki 7 St, PL-20093 Lublin, Poland; [Smolka, Jakub; Skublewska-Paszkowska, Maria; Lukasik, Edyta] Lublin Univ Technol, Fac Elect Engn & Comp Sci, Dept Comp Sci, Nadbystrzycka 38D, PL-20618 Lublin, Poland; [Zawadka, Magdalena] Med Univ Lublin, Chodzki 7 St, PL-20093 Lublin, Poland								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600007	28	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Feng; Yin, Xiaojian; Bi, Cunjian; Li, Yuqiang; Sun, Yi; Zhang, Ting; Yang, Xiaofang; Li, Ming; Liu, Yuan; Cao, Junfang; Yang, Ting; Guo, Yaru; Song, Ge								Normative Reference Values and International Comparisons for the 20-Metre Shuttle Run Test: Analysis of 69,960 Test Results among Chinese Children and Youth								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			478	488					SEP 2020	2020	There is increasing evidence that cardiorespiratory endurance (CRE) is declining among Chinese children and youth. The 20-meter shuttle run test (20-m SRT) is considered the most effective and widely used field-based measurement of CRE for children and youth worldwide. However, there have been few attempts to set 20-m SRT norms for Chinese children and youth. We aimed to develop sex- and age-specific 20-m SRT norms for Chinese children and youth, and compare them with international standards. Participants were 69,960 healthy children and youth aged 9-17 years from six geographical areas of China, selected using a stratified cluster random sampling method. Sex- and age-specific 20-m SRT percentiles and curves were extracted for four common 20-m SRT metrics (laps, completed stages/minutes, speed at the last complete stage, estimated peak oxygen uptake). We also estimated the prevalence of healthy CRE according to the interim international cut-points (42 mL.kg(-1)min(-1) for boys, 35 mL.kg(-1)min(-1) for girls). Chinese boys consistently outperformed girls, while more girls (86.4%) exhibited healthy CRE than boys (67.1%). Younger children and youth were more likely to meet the standards compared with the older, regardless of sex. Chinese children and youth underperformed international norms by 0.85% for boys and 3.1% for girls. The performance indicator (z-score) of Chinese children and youth was -0.01, indicating that 20-m SRT performance was worse than the international mean. The sex differences were also higher for international than Chinese students. This study provided national sex- and age-specific 20-m SRT Chinese norms, offering a valuable tool for screening, monitoring and identifying target groups for future interventions and early prevention of cardiovascular risk factors.		[Zhang, Feng; Yin, Xiaojian; Bi, Cunjian; Li, Yuqiang; Sun, Yi; Zhang, Ting; Yang, Xiaofang; Li, Ming; Liu, Yuan; Cao, Junfang; Yang, Ting; Guo, Yaru; Song, Ge] East China Normal Univ, Key Lab Adolescent Hlth Assessment & Exercise Int, Minist Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Feng; Yin, Xiaojian; Bi, Cunjian; Li, Yuqiang; Sun, Yi; Zhang, Ting; Yang, Xiaofang; Li, Ming; Liu, Yuan; Cao, Junfang; Yang, Ting; Guo, Yaru; Song, Ge] East China Normal Univ, Coll Phys Educ & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Yin, Xiaojian] Shanghai Inst Technol, Coll Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Yin, Xiaojian] East China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Hlth, Shanghai, Peoples R China								30							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600005	68	Article; Article		
J	John, Alexander T.; Wind, Johanna; Horst, Fabian; Schoellhorn, Wolfgang, I								Acute Effects of an Incremental Exercise Test on Psychophysiological Variables and Their Interaction								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			596	612					SEP 2020	2020	Besides neurophysiological effects, the potential influence of exercise induced strains in terms of peripheral physiology or subjectively perceived stress as well as their possible reciprocal relation is not clearly understood yet. This study aimed to analyze effects of increasing exercise intensity on brain activity (spontaneous EEG), heart rate variability (HRV) and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) by means of a graded exercise test (GXT). Fifteen participants performed an open-loop GXT on a bicycle ergometer beginning at 50W and an increment of 50W every three minutes. Rest measurements were conducted pre- (5 min) and especially post-exercise (15 min) to analyze (neuro-) physiological prolonged effects. EEG and HRV were measured in parallel before, during (including RPE) and after GXT. Brain activity showed next to already determined effects (e.g. increased (pre)frontal theta, alpha and beta power) a particular activation of the temporal lobe after GXT compared to pre-resting state. HRV frequency parameters significantly decreased following GXT. Recovery process revealed a significant alteration of EEG and HRV towards pre-resting state with prolonged effects in the temporal lobe. Correlation analysis during GXT led to moderately negative effects of EEG total spectrum power and HRV frequency parameters. Frontopolar and temporal lobe revealed noteworthy negative correlated effects with HRV. Referring to RPE, solely temporal gamma activity correlated moderately positive with RPE. Recovery exposed only in the temporal cortex a moderately negative correlation to HP power. Thus, further analysis of the temporal brain lobe in context with exhausting physical exercise comprising induced regulation of cardiovascular stress and perceived exertion is promoted. These results indicate a brain lobe specific relation to peripheral physiology as well as perceived strain with a dependency of rest or exercise condition. Therefore, enough incentives are given to encourage further analysis of a connection between the (neuro-) physiological system as well as subjectively perceived exertion.		[John, Alexander T.; Wind, Johanna; Horst, Fabian; Schoellhorn, Wolfgang, I] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Training & Movement Sci, Mainz, Germany; [John, Alexander T.] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Training & Movement Sci, Mainz, Germany								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600018	106	Article; Article		
J	Stewart, Ian B.; Moghadam, Peyman; Borg, David N.; Kung, Terry; Sikka, Pavan; Minett, Geoffrey M.								Thermal Infrared Imaging Can Differentiate Skin Temperature Changes Associated With Intense Single Leg Exercise, But Not With Delayed Onset of Muscle Soreness								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			469	477					SEP 2020	2020	Muscle damage and soreness associated with increased exercise training loads or unaccustomed activity can be debilitating and impact the quality of subsequent activity/performance. Current techniques to assess muscle soreness are either time consuming, invasive or subjective. Infrared thermography has been identified as a quick, non-invasive, portable and athlete friendly method of assessing skin temperature. This study assessed the capability of thermal infrared imaging to detect skin temperature changes that may accompany the inflammatory response associated with delayed onset muscular soreness (DOMS). Eight recreationally trained participants (age 25 +/- 3 years, mass 74.9 +/- 13.6 kg, training minutes 296 +/- 175 min.wk(-1)) completed 6 sets of 25 maximal concentric/eccentric contractions of the right knee flexors/extensors on a dynamometer to induce muscle damage and DOMS. The left knee extensors acted as a non-exercise control. Neuromuscular performance, subjective pain assessment and infrared thermography were undertaken at baseline, 24 and 48 hr post the DOMS-inducing exercise protocol. Data were analysed using Bayesian hierarchical regression and Cohen's d was also calculated. Maximal voluntary contraction torque was statistically lower at 24 hr (d = -0.70) and 48 hr (d = -0.52) compared to baseline, after the DOMS-inducing exercise protocol. These neuromuscular impairments coincided with statistically higher ratings of muscle soreness at 24 hr (d = 0.96) and 48 hr (d = 0.48). After adjusting for ambient temperature, anterior thigh skin temperature was statistically elevated at 24 hr, but not 48 hr, compared with baseline, in both the exercised and non-exercised leg. Thigh temperature was not different statistically between legs at these time points. Infrared imaging was able to detect elevations in skin temperature, at 24 hrs after the DOMS inducing exercise protocol, in both the exercised and non-exercised thigh Elevations in the skin temperature of both thighs, potentially identifies a systemic inflammatory response occurring at 24 hr after the DOMS-inducing exercise protocol.		[Stewart, Ian B.; Borg, David N.; Minett, Geoffrey M.] Queensland Univ Technol QUT, Inst Hlth & Biomed Innovat, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Stewart, Ian B.; Borg, David N.; Minett, Geoffrey M.] Queensland Univ Technol QUT, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Moghadam, Peyman; Kung, Terry; Sikka, Pavan] CSIRO, Data61, Robot & Autonomous Syst, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Borg, David N.] Griffith Univ, Hopkins Ctr, Menzies Hlth Inst Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Stewart, Ian B.] 60 Musk Ave, Brisbane, Qld 4059, Australia								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600004	34	Article; Article		
J	Nose, Yuka; Fujita, Kana; Wada, Takuma; Nishimura, Kazuki; Hakoda, Masayuki								Effects of Menstrual Cycle Phase on Fluid Regulation during Walking Exercise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			556	563					SEP 2020	2020	To elucidate the fluid regulation in different menstrual cycle phases during exercise. Sex hormones affect fluid regulation in different ways. Moreover, the renin angiotensin-aldosterone system is activated in the luteal phase in rest. However, there are limited studies on fluid regulation affected by such hormone excretion in the menstrual cycle during exercise, especially during a light walking exercise. A non-invasive method using urine samples to determine menstrual cycle phases was used, and the follicular and luteal phases were successfully confirmed in 10 participants (age, 21 +/- 1 years; body mass index, 20.5 +/- 2.1 kg/m(2)). The experimental exercise sessions consisted of 5-min standing and 15-min walking at 2 km/h on 15% slope (approximately 8.3 degrees) on a treadmill. Each participant carried a backpack weighing 5% of her own weight, and performed three sessions of walking exercise. Urine aldosterone excretion was significantly higher in the luteal than in the follicular phase before and after walking (p < 0.05). Urinary excretion of aldosterone was five times higher in the luteal than in the follicular phase before and after walking exercise. Heart rates during walking, after rest, and after recovery were all significantly higher in the luteal than in the follicular phase (p < 0.05). The participants' ratings of perceived exertion during the first and third session of walking in the luteal phase was not higher than that at the follicular phase. The results of our study suggested that increased activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle might be further activated during exercise. This may increase the circulatory load, which is reflected as increased heart rate. These results suggested that premenopausal women may better take into account a possibility of an increased circulatory load in the luteal phase even when they perform light exercise.		[Nose, Yuka; Hakoda, Masayuki] Yasuda Womens Univ, Dept Nutr Sci, Hiroshima, Japan; [Fujita, Kana] Sonoda Womens Univ, Dept Food & Nutr, Amagasaki, Hyogo, Japan; [Wada, Takuma] Kawasaki Univ Med Welf, Dept Hlth & Sports Sci, Kurashiki, Okayama, Japan; [Nishimura, Kazuki] Hiroshima Inst Technol, Dept Global Environm Studies, Hiroshima, Japan; [Nose, Yuka] Yasuda Womens Univ, Fac Human Ecol, Dept Nutr Sci, Asaminami Ku, Yasuhigashi 6-13-1, Hiroshima 7310153, Japan								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600014	40	Article; Article		
J	Utczas, Katinka; Troznai, Zsofia; Palinkas, Gergely; Kalabiska, Irina; Petridis, Leonidas								How Length Sizes Affect Body Composition Estimation in Adolescent Athletes Using Bioelectrical Impedance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			577	584					SEP 2020	2020	Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) is a common practice to assess body composition in athletes, however, when measuring athletes with specific body geometry, its accuracy may decrease. In this study we examined how length dimensions affect body composition estimation and we compared BIA and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) assessments in three sports. 738 male adolescent athletes (15.8 +/- 1.4 years) from three sports (soccer, basketball, and handball) were measured. Body composition was estimated by BIA (InBody 720) and by DXA (Lunar Prodigy). Differences between the two methods were tested by Bland-Altman analysis and by paired t-test. ANOVA was used for intergroup comparisons. Pearson correlation and multivariate linear regression was used to look for the relationship between segmental lean body mass and length dimensions. BIA(InBody 720) consistently underestimated percent body fat (PBF) and overestimated lean body mass (LBM) than DXA. The magnitude of the differences between the two methods varied among the examined sports. Handball (PBF = 8.3 +/- 2.4 %; LBM = -5.0 +/- 2.1 kg) and basketball players (PBF = 8.8 +/- 2.3 %; LBM = -5.3 +/- 1.8 kg) had significantly larger differences between the two methods than soccer players (PBF = 6.4 +/- 2.2 %; LBM = -3.1 +/- 1.4 kg). There was a negative correlation between differences in segmental LBM estimation and length sizes (trunk length, upper extremity length, lower extremity length). The highest correlation was found for lower extremity (r = -0.4). Longer lower extremity resulted in greater difference in LBM estimation. The differences between the sport disciplines are most probably attributed to body height differences. Length dimensions result in overestimation of LBM with BIA, thus body composition assessment with BIA(InBody 720) needs to be carefully interpreted in athletes with extreme length sizes, especially, with basketball players.		[Utczas, Katinka; Troznai, Zsofia; Palinkas, Gergely; Kalabiska, Irina; Petridis, Leonidas] Univ Phys Educ, Res Ctr Sport Physiol, Alkotas U 44, H-1123 Budapest, Hungary; [Utczas, Katinka] Univ Phys Educ, Res Ctr Sport Physiol, Alkotas U 44, H-1123 Budapest, Hungary								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600016	33	Article; Article		
J	Chow, Chi-Ching Gary								Global Positioning System Activity Profile in Touch Rugby: Does Training Meet the Match-Play Intensity in a Two-Day International Test Match Series?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	3			613	619					SEP 2020	2020	This study quantified the match-play activity profiles of international touch rugby and different positional physical outputs in comparison with training specificity. Between November 2019 and January 2020, 82 half-matches and 173 training global positioning system data from 16 national male touch rugby players (mean +/- SD: age 23.71 +/- 3.90 years, height 1.73 +/- 0.05 m, weight 65.38 +/- 9.08 kg, touch rugby training experience 6.09 +/- 3.31 years) were recorded. The distance covered by wings in half-match (1676.66 +/- 444.80 m) was more than that of link (1311.35 +/- 223.59 m) and middle (1383.52 +/- 246.55 m) by a large effect (partial eta(2) = 0.19), which was mainly attributed to walking and jogging (< 4.00 m.s(-1)). Meanwhile, the middles covered more running distance (4.00-5.50 m.s(-1)) than other positions. No significant positional group difference was observed for distance covered >5.50 m.s(-1), maximum velocity, and the ratio of acceleration and deceleration in matches. Training intensity was close to the match-play outputs only for the high-speed running distance at >= 5.50 m.s(-1). However, the training activity pattern consistently showed a disparity with the match-play outputs, in terms of shorter normalized training distance covered, less recovery distance covered at <= 5.50 m.s(-1), higher maximum velocity, and heavier weighting to acceleration in training activities. The current study highlights for the first time that in-match deceleration capacity and active recovery pacing strategy may be essential to touch rugby players. The data provided practitioners a deeper understanding of the physical demands of national touch rugby and allowed them to align the training with the match-play intensity.		[Chow, Chi-Ching Gary] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Chow, Chi-Ching Gary] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Tai Po, 10 Lo Ping Rd, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000560560600019	42	Article; Article		
J	Kingston, Brianna; Murray, Amanda; Norte, Grant E.; Glaviano, Neal R.								Validity and reliability of 2-dimensional trunk, hip, and knee frontal plane kinematics during single-leg squat, drop jump, and single-leg hop in females with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				181	187		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.07.006			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate validity and between-session reliability of frontal plane trunk, hip, and knee kinematics during three functional tasks in females with patellofemoral pain (PFP). Design: Observational. Setting: Research Laboratory. Participants: 20 females with PFP (22.7 +/- 3.2 years, 69.9 +/- 9.2 kg, 167.7 +/- 9.6 cm). Main outcome measures: Trunk, hip, and knee frontal plane peak angles during the single leg squat (SLS), drop vertical jump (DVJ), and single leg hop (SLH) kinematics were evaluated using 2-dimensional (2D) and 3-dimensional (3D) motion capture. Participants returned to the lab one week later and competed a second 2D analysis of the functional tasks. Concurrent validity was assessed by evaluating relationship between 2D and 3D frontal plane kinematics with Pearson correlations. Between-session reliability was assessed by evaluating 2D kinematics with intraclass correlation coefficients by a single assessor. Results: Moderate to strong correlations (r = 0.55-0.76, p < .05) were found for frontal plane hip kinematics during all three tasks and the trunk during the SLH. Frontal plane kinematics demonstrated good to excellent test-retest reliability for each of the three tasks, (ICC(2,1) = 0.70-0.90). Conclusion: 2D hip joint angles during the three functional tasks were the only valid frontal plane angles. Trunk, hip, and knee 2D frontal plane kinematics ranged between good-excellent reliability. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kingston, Brianna; Murray, Amanda; Norte, Grant E.; Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Connecticut, Storrs, CT USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								42							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200023	47	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Rathleff, Michael Skovdal; Holden, Sinead; Bell, Emily; Azevedo, Fabio; Pazzinatto, Marcella Ferraz; Barton, Christian								Patients and clinicians managing patellofemoral pain should not rely on general web-based information								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				176	180		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.07.004			SEP 2020	2020	Objective: To evaluate the credibility and accuracy of PFP-specific web-based content. Design: Cross-sectional evaluation of web-based information. Methods: The study protocol was registered with PROSPERO (CRD42018088671). Two search engines (Google and Bing) were used to search for websites offering information about PFP. Two reviewers assessed the websites for credibility-related and PFP-specific content. PFP-specific content was evaluated according to agreement with current international PFP consensus statements. Based on this, content was rated as (i) Accurate/Clearly described; (ii) Partially accurate/Description lacks clarity; (iii) Inaccurate/Misleading description; or (iv) Not mentioned. Results: After exclusion of duplicates, forty online websites were included in our analyses. 43% of websites did not mention their source of information, and 48% did not mention if the source material was peer-reviewed. Misleading/inaccurate information was most commonly found in the definition of PFP (20% websites) and clinical examination (15%). Twenty-two percent of websites recommended surgery as treatment. The item most frequently rated as accurate/clearly described was PFP terminology (87.5%). Conclusion: This study highlights missing, inaccurate or poorly described web-based PFP information. Due to the commonality of PFP and potential for improving self-management, there is an urgent need to develop more accurate and comprehensive web-based patient education resources for PFP. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Pazzinatto, Marcella Ferraz; Barton, Christian] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr LASEM, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Bell, Emily; Azevedo, Fabio; Pazzinatto, Marcella Ferraz] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci & Technol, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Rathleff, Michael Skovdal; Holden, Sinead] Aalborg Univ, Ctr Gen Practice, Aalborg, Denmark; [Rathleff, Michael Skovdal; Holden, Sinead] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, SMI, Aalborg, Denmark; [Barton, Christian] Univ Melbourne, Dept Surg, St Vincents Hosp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Silva, Danilo de Oliveira] Plenty Rd & Kingsbury Dr, Melbourne, Vic 3086, Australia								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200022	27	Article; Article		
J	Sarvestan, Javad; Ataabadi, Peyman Aghaie; Svoboda, Zdenek; Kovacikova, Zuzana; Needle, Alan R.								The effect of ankle Kinesio™ taping on ankle joint biomechanics during unilateral balance status among collegiate athletes with chronic ankle sprain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				161	167		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.007			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: To determine the effects of ankle Kinesio-taping (KT) on postural sway, lower limb ROM, and muscle activity during a unilateral balance tasks. Design: Case control study design. Setting: Data were collected at the human movement analysis laboratory. Participants: 30 collegiate athletes with chronic ankle sprain (11 females and 19 males, 23.91 +/- 2.58 years). Main outcome measure: Hip, knee and ankle joints ranges of motion (ROMs); postural sway area and velocities in both anteroposterior and mediolateral directions; and muscular activity amplitudes (% peak) of lateral and medial gastrocnemius, tibialis anterior and peroneus longus in a 20s single leg balance test in two non-taped (control) and KT (intervention) conditions. Results: Significant decrease observed in ankle lateral ROM (p = 0.048, d = 0.52), mediolateral postural sway velocity (p = 0.029, d = 1.25), and peroneus longus activity amplitudes (p = 0.042, d = 0.55) after KT application. Conclusion: Acute application of KT among athletes with chronic ankle instability could provide lateral mechanical support to the ankle, potentially decreasing the velocity of frontal plane sway, and decreasing the magnitude of muscle activation. These data suggest that KT may be beneficial for improving static joint stability among individuals with chronic ankle sprain, and thus could be considered an option to allow safe return-to-activity. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sarvestan, Javad; Svoboda, Zdenek; Kovacikova, Zuzana] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Kinanthropol, Trida Miru 644-113, Olomouc 77900, Czech Republic; [Ataabadi, Peyman Aghaie] Kharazmi Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Dept Biomech & Sports Injuries, Tehran, Iran; [Needle, Alan R.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, ASU Box 32071, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Sarvestan, Javad] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Kinanthropol, Trida Miru 644-113, Olomouc 77900, Czech Republic								36							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200020	55	Article; Article		
J	Selhorst, Mitchell; Fernandez-Fernandez, Alicia; Schmitt, Laura; Hoehn, Jessica								Adolescent psychological beliefs, but not parent beliefs, associated with pain and function in adolescents with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				155	160		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.07.003			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: The purpose of this study was to assess the association of adolescent and parent psychological beliefs with 1) self-reported functional ability, 2) pain and 3) objective measures of function. Study design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Pediatric Outpatient Hospital. Participants: Eighty-six adolescents with patellofemoral pain (PFP) (14.6 +/- 1.7 years old, 62% female) and 72 parents. Main outcome measures: Patient questionnaires were used to describe pain, knee function, fear avoidance (Fear Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire-Physical Activity; FABQ-PA), kinesiophobia (Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia-11; TSK-11), and pain catastrophizing (Pain Catastrophizing Scale; PCS) in adolescents with PFP. Parents (n = 72) completed FABQ-PA, TSK-11, and PCS questionnaires. Hip and knee strength, quadriceps and dorsiflexion motion, the single-leg hop for distance and lateral-step down test measured physical performance. Results: Adolescent psychological beliefs were significantly associated with pain (FABQ-PA r = 0.33, and PCS r = 0.34), function (FABQ-PA r = -0.59,TSK-11 r = -0.33), hip strength (FABQ-PA r = -0.41, TSK-11 r = -0.32), and single leg hop for distance (FABQ-PA r = -0.38). Parent psychological beliefs were not associated with the adolescent's beliefs, pain or function. Conclusions: Adolescent, but not parent, psychological beliefs were associated with pain, self-reported function and objective measures of function. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Selhorst, Mitchell] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Sports & Orthoped Phys Therapy, Columbus, OH 43205 USA; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Alicia] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL USA; [Schmitt, Laura] Ohio State Univ, Jameson Crane Sports Med Res Inst, Wexner Med Ctr, Columbus, OH USA; [Schmitt, Laura] Ohio State Univ, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Div Phys Therapy, Columbus, OH USA; [Hoehn, Jessica] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Dept Pediat Psychol & Neuropsychol, Columbus, OH USA; [Selhorst, Mitchell] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Sports & Orthoped Phys Therapy, Columbus, OH 43205 USA								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200019	44	Article; Article		
J	Mahood, Ciaran; Perry, Meredith; Gallagher, Peter; Sole, Gisela								Chaos and confusion with confidence: Managing fear of Re-Injury after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				145	154		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.07.002			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: To explore strategies enabling competitive athletes to manage re-injury fears or anxieties, facilitating return to competitive sport following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Qualitative study. Setting: University. Participants: Ten athletes with ACLR within the last 5 years who had returned to competitive sport with a minimum 7/10 Tegner Activity score. Methods: Semi-structured interviews, recorded, transcribed and analysed using interpretive description. Results: Three main themes. "Driving reasons to return to sport" included the athletic identity, the competitive team spirit and commitment; "Preparation of body and mind" encompassed connectedness with health professionals, coaches, the sports team and family, graded exposure and progression of physical tasks, and psychological or cognitive skills to improve mental toughness; "Risk Acceptance" entailed situational risk analysis, problem solving, and avoidance of unacceptable risk and acceptance of risk and responsibility. Conclusion: Participants described intrinsic and extrinsic motivators as drivers for rehabilitation. Interactions with therapists, coaches and team members enhanced confidence, supported by both physical rehabilitation and psychological influences. Psychological strategies were essential for several participants to return to sport. Graded sports exposure, leading towards total immersion in training and competition, appears important to manage re-injury fear following ACLR. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mahood, Ciaran; Sole, Gisela] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Sch Physiotherapy, POB 56, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand; [Perry, Meredith] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Sch Physiotherapy, Wellington, New Zealand; [Gallagher, Peter] Rugby New Zealand, Wellington, New Zealand; [Mahood, Ciaran] Southern Dist Hlth Board, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Sole, Gisela] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Sch Physiotherapy, POB 56, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand								39							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200018	55	Article; Article		
J	Welch, Ethan S.; Watson, Matthew D.; Davies, George J.; Riemann, Bryan L.								Biomechanical analysis of the closed kinetic chain upper extremity stability test in healthy young adults								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				120	125		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.010			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: To compare kinematic and ground reaction force (GRF) patterns between the dominant and non-dominant limbs in males and females conducting the closed kinetic chain upper extremity stability test (CKCUEST). Design: Descriptive. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Sixteen male and sixteen female healthy and physically active young adults. Main outcome measures: Hand contact and flight times, peak and average vertical (vGRF) and mediallateral (mIGRF) ground reaction forces, medial-lateral (ML) distance and ML velocity per repetition, three-dimensional (3D) distance and 3D velocity per repetition, and average number of touches per trial during the CKCUEST. Results: Only peak and average mIGRF were statistically different between limbs. Males and females were statistically different across every measured variable. ML and 3D velocities were the only variables strongly correlated to the number of touches achieved. Conclusions: Both sexes were symmetrical between limbs in all but mIGRF; however, there were distinct differences in both kinematics and GRF patterns between sexes that may be attributed to differences in the testing position between males and females. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Welch, Ethan S.; Watson, Matthew D.; Davies, George J.; Riemann, Bryan L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Biodynam & Human Performance Ctr, Armstrong Campus,11935 Abercorn St, Savannah, GA 31419 USA; [Riemann, Bryan L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Biodynam & Human Performance Ctr, Armstrong Campus,11935 Abercorn St, Savannah, GA 31419 USA								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200015	28	Article; Article		
J	Read, Paul J.; Oliver, Jon L.; Myer, Gregory D.; Farooq, Abdulaziz; Croix, Mark De Ste; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Utility of the anterior reach Y-BALANCE test as an injury risk screening tool in elite male youth soccer players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				103	110		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.002			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: Examine growth and maturation trends in dynamic balance using the anterior reach Y-Balance test, and its utility as an injury risk screening tool. Design: Cross sectional and prospective cohort. Setting: Elite male youth soccer players. Participants: 346 players grouped as pre, circa or post peak height velocity (PHV). Main outcome measures: Pre-season anterior reach absolute and relative Y-Balance test scores and seasonal prospective lower extremity injury monitoring. Results: Absolute reach distances were greatest post-PHV (p < 0.05). Relative to leg length, pre-PHV achieved the highest scores and increased between-limb differences. Significant associations between injury and anterior reach scores were present in pre (OR: 0.94, CI: 0.91-0.98, p < 0.05) and circa-PHV (OR: 1.05, 95% CI: 1.05-1.10, p < 0.05). Increased age (OR: 1.49, 95% CI: 1.04-2.13, p < 0.05) and height (OR: 1.06, 95% CI: 0.99-1.13, p = 0.82) were risk factors post-PHV. No differences in injury occurrence were shown between players with absolute reach difference >4 cm in any group. Conclusions: Anterior reach scores increased injury risk, but associations were small and inconsistent. The Y-Balance should be used with caution as a screening tool in this cohort. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Read, Paul J.; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Myer, Gregory D.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Div Sports Med, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Cincinnati, Coll Med, Dept Pediat & Orthopaed Surg, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Boston, MA USA; [Read, Paul J.; Croix, Mark De Ste] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Read, Paul J.; Farooq, Abdulaziz] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Read, Paul J.] Sports City St, Doha 29222, Qatar								34							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200013	39	Article; Article		
J	Biese, Kevin M.; McGuine, Timothy A.; Kliethermes, Stephanie A.; Bell, David R.; Post, Eric G.; Watson, Andrew M.; Brooks, M. Alison; Lang, Pamela J.								Sport specialization and sport participation opportunities and their association with injury history in female high school volleyball athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				86	92		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.005			SEP 2020	2020	Objective: Determine the association of sport specialization in female volleyball athletes with previous injury history and determine the association of sport specialization with volleyball participation opportunities. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Recruitment occurred from 83 Wisconsin high schools during the 2018 volleyball season. Participants: Female volleyball athletes (N = 1,588, grades 9-12, age = 15.6 +/- 1.1 years). Main outcomes: Participants completed a pre-season questionnaire soliciting information regarding 1) demographics, 2) sport specialization, 3) sport participation, and 4) sport-related injuries in the previous 12 months. Univariable logistic regression models were used to identify associations with previous injury. Chi-square analyses were used to investigate associations between sport specialization classification and other sport participation opportunities. Results: Both moderately and highly specialized athletes were more likely to report a previous injury compared to low specialized athletes (moderate OR: 1.84 [1.29-2.62]; p < 0.001 and high OR: 2.30 [1.64 -3.24]; p < 0.001). Highly specialized athletes were more likely to report participating in club volleyball, summer tournaments, and training camps in the past 12 months. Participants who reported participating in club volleyball, summer competitions, and training camps last year were more likely to report an injury. Conclusions: Specialization was associated with injury history and year-round volleyball opportunities among female adolescent volleyball athletes. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Biese, Kevin M.; Bell, David R.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Kinesiol, Madison, WI USA; [McGuine, Timothy A.; Kliethermes, Stephanie A.; Bell, David R.; Watson, Andrew M.; Brooks, M. Alison; Lang, Pamela J.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, Madison, WI USA; [Post, Eric G.] Indiana State Univ, Dept Appl Med & Rehabil, Terre Haute, IN 47809 USA; [Biese, Kevin M.] Dept Kinesiol, 2000 Observ Dr, Madison, WI 53706 USA								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200011	33	Article; Article		
J	Tak, I. J. R.; Weerink, M.; Barendrecht, M.								Judokas with low back pain have lower flexibility of the hip-spine complex: A case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				30	37		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.06.003			SEP 2020	2020	Objective: Study whether male adult judokas with and without low back pain (LBP) have different hipspine flexibility. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Judo training centres. Participants: Judokas with (n = 29) and without (n = 33) LBP. Main outcome measures: Range of motion (ROM) (passive and active rotations) of hips, lumbar spine (flexion-extension) and fingertip-to-floor distance (FTFD). Results: The non-dominant hips of judokas with LBP had 6.8 +/- 1.2 degrees (ES:1.45, p < 0.001) lower passive and 8.0 +/- 1.3 degrees (ES:1.55, p < 0.001) lower active internal rotation. Dominant hips of judokas with LBP had 5.1 +/- 1.6 degrees (ES: 0.81, p = 0.002) lower active internal rotation and 8.8 +/- 2.9 degrees (ES:0.79, p = 0.003) lower active total rotation. The LBP group showed 8.0 +/- 2.8 degrees (ES: 0.73, p = 0.006) lower flexion and 6.0 +/- 2.2 degrees (ES: 0.69, p = 0.009) lower extension of the lumbar spine. The FTFD in the LBP group was 7.3 +/- 2.6 cm (ES: 0.72, p = 0.007) lower. The multi-level regression analyses showed passive (OR 1.54, 95%CI 1.18-2.00, p = 0.001) and active (OR 1.47, 95%CI 1.16-1.87, p = 0.001) hip internal rotation of the non-dominant leg and lumbar spinal flexion (OR 1.11, 95%CI 1.03-1.20, p = 0.006) and extension (OR 1.16, 95%CI 1.01-1.33, p = 0.035) were related to LBP. Conclusion: Lower hip internal rotation of the non-dominant leg (passive and active) and lower lumbar flexibility are significantly related to LBP in male adult judokas. (C) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Tak, I. J. R.] Fysiotherapie Utrecht Oost, Bloemstr 65d, NL-3581 WD Utrecht, Netherlands; [Tak, I. J. R.; Barendrecht, M.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam Publ Hlth Res Inst, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports ACHSS, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth,Amsterdam UMC, Van der Boechorststr 7, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Weerink, M.] Paramed Ctr Albergen, Hoofdstr 51, NL-7665 AN Albergen, Netherlands; [Weerink, M.; Barendrecht, M.] Avans Improving Professionals, Heerbaan 14-40, NL-4817 NL Breda, Netherlands; [Barendrecht, M.] Mijn Fysio Adviespunt, Rhijnvis Feithlaan 12, NL-2533 GE The Hague, Netherlands; [Tak, I. J. R.] Bloemstr 65D, NL-3581 WD Utrecht, Netherlands								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200005	44	Article; Article		
J	Koshino, Yuta; Samukawa, Mina; Murata, Hiromu; Osuka, Satoshi; Kasahara, Satoshi; Yamanaka, Masanori; Tohyama, Harukazu								Prevalence and characteristics of chronic ankle instability and copers identified by the criteria for research and clinical practice in collegiate athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				45				23	29		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.014			SEP 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate the prevalence and characteristics of chronic ankle instability (CAI) and copers among collegiate athletes as identified by criteria for research (CAI-R and copers-R) and for clinical practice (CAI-C and copers-C). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University. Participants: Collegiate athletes (n = 507). Main outcome measures: Participants were assessed by questionnaires based on the International Ankle Consortium guidelines. The percentages of participants with CAI-R, CAI-C, copers-R and copers-C were calculated, respectively. Demographic and injury data were statistically compared between CAI-R and copers-R groups. Results: The data of 470 participants was retained after exclusions. Of these, the prevalence of CAI-R (10.0%) was only half of that of CAI-C (19.8%), and that of copers-R and copers-C was about 5%. Seventy percent of unclassifiable participants had recurrent ankle sprains. CAI was most common in basketball, while copers were less prevalent in basketball, judo, rugby and gymnastics. The age at the initial injury was significantly younger in the CAI-R participants than in the copers-R. Conclusions: The type of sport and the age at the initial injury may be associated with developing CAI. The standard criteria may not capture the entire clinical CAI population, therefore, care should be taken when applying the research to clinical practice. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Koshino, Yuta; Samukawa, Mina; Murata, Hiromu; Osuka, Satoshi; Kasahara, Satoshi; Tohyama, Harukazu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Koshino, Yuta] NTT Med Ctr Sapporo, Rehabil Ctr, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Yamanaka, Masanori] Hokkaido Chitose Coll Rehabil, Fac Hlth Sci, Chitose, Japan; [Samukawa, Mina] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Kita Ku, West 5,North 12, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600812, Japan								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000572413200004	21	Article; Article		
J	Prochnow, Tyler; Umstattd Meyer, M. Renee; Pollack Porter, Keshia								I Play, You Play, We Play: Concurrent Activity at Play Streets								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			53	63		10.1080/02701367.2020.1792399			JAN 2 2022	2022	Purpose: Despite multiple health benefits, many children and teens do not achieve recommended amounts of physical activity (PA). Temporary changes to the built environment like Play Streets, temporarily closing streets to create safe places to play, are one solution to encourage PA in summer months. Play Streets can promote social cohesion by creating opportunities for concurrent activity, being active in the same area simultaneously. This study assesses concurrent activity at ChicagoPlayStreets.Methods: During summer 2018, the System for Observing Play and Recreation in Communities (SOPARC) and iSOPARC mobile application were used to measure PA atPlayStreets(n = 11) organized by eight community partners. Odds ratios were used to determine odds of observing an individual as active when in the same target area as another individual, and when in the same target area as an active individual, separated by sex and age categories.Results: Presence of an active individual significantly increased odds of observing an individual as active for several sex and age stratifications. Specifically, presence of active children or an active male adult significantly increased odds of observing children and teens as active. In contrast, presence of another person alone was not shown to significantly increase odds of observing an individual as active, except in two instances when stratified by sex and age.Conclusions: Active male adults have a significant positive impact on activity levels atPlayStreetsunderlining the importance of engaged male figures. Additionally, findings suggest that active children can promote PA among other children atPlayStreets.		[Prochnow, Tyler; Umstattd Meyer, M. Renee] Baylor Univ, One Bear Pl 97313, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Pollack Porter, Keshia] Johns Hopkins Univ, Baltimore, MD 21218 USA; [Prochnow, Tyler] Baylor Univ, One Bear Pl 97313, Waco, TX 76798 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564321200001	47	Article; Article		
J	Persson, Emil; Andersson, Marcus; Blomqvist, Sven								Differences in Physical Demands Among Offensive and Defensive Players in Elite Men Bandy								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			805	812		10.1080/02701367.2020.1788203			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: This study examined the physiological sport-specific demands (total distance, mean velocity, effective game time, and time in five velocity zones) in elite bandy players of offensive and defensive playing positions.Method: Data were collected with 10 Hz GPS-units in the Swedish Elite League during the season 2015/16. Ten male elite bandy players were examined during 13 matches. Data were analyzed with Independent Samples Test and with descriptive statistics.Result: Analysis showed that defensive positions covered a significantly longer (p< .001) total distance (23.2 +/- 2.4 km vs 21.1 +/- 3.5 km) compared to the offensive positions. Significantly higher (p< .001) mean velocity was found in offensive positions (17.8 +/- 1.0 km/h vs 15.5 +/- 1.6 km/h) in relation to defensive positions. In variable effective game time analysis exposed significant differences (p< .001) between offensive positions and defensive positions (90.4 +/- 3.5 min vs 71.3 +/- 11.9 min). Furthermore, in easy and moderate skating defensive positions spent significantly (p< .001) more time and in fast, very fast, and sprint skating offensive positions spent significantly (p< .001) more time in relation to each other. The descriptive analysis of positions indicates that libero, defender, and half have the longest game time, half skate the longest distance, and forward have the highest mean velocity during the game.Conclusion: From a practical perspective, the result can provide coaches knowledge when planning the setup in training drills. Thus, the training sessions could be more specific to the playing position, which could maximize the player's physiological outcome in order to optimize performance.		[Persson, Emil; Andersson, Marcus; Blomqvist, Sven] Univ Gavle, Gavle, Sweden; [Blomqvist, Sven] Univ Gavle, Dept Hlth & Caring Sci, Gavle, Sweden								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564026400001	37	Article; Article		
J	Dias, Andre Rodrigues Lourenco; de Souza, Katrice Almeida; dos Santos, Kamila Meireles; Pecanha, Tiago; Ferreira, Jacielle Carolina; Cambri, Lucieli Teresa; Arsa, Gisela								Acute Exercise Increases the Ambulatory Cardiac Modulation of Young Men With Overweight/Obesity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			796	804		10.1080/02701367.2020.1786488			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: To verify whether excess body mass influences 24-h ambulatory heart rate variability (HRV) after a moderate-intensity continuous exercise (MICE) session.Method: Participants included 27 non-trained young men that were divided into two groups, 1) normal-weight (n = 10) and 2) overweight and obese (n = 17). Participants underwent a single MICE session of 30 minutes at 50-60% of heart rate reserve (HRR), and a control session (CT). Heart rate (HR) and HRV indices were recorded at 60-minute intervals and were used to obtain the area under the curve (AUC) for 24-h ambulatory measurements following MICE or CT. SDNN (standard deviation of RR intervals in milliseconds) and RMSSD (root mean square of successive differences between adjacent RR interval in milliseconds), Ln-LF (log-transformed values of the absolute power of the low-frequency band) and HF (log-transformed values of the absolute power of the high-frequency band) were analyzed.Results: The overweight and obese group presented higher AUC of RMSSD (p = .006), Ln-LF (p = .002), and Ln-HF (p = .005) indices after MICE than CT. Nighttime periods were more responsive to the effects of MICE on RMSSD and Ln-HF indices (p < .05), regardless of group.Conclusion: MICE promoted an increase in the 24-h ambulatory cardiac autonomic modulation in the group overweight and obese, mainly at nighttime during sleep. These results revealed a potential benefit of MICE on the cardiac autonomic modulation for young men with overweight and obesity.		[Dias, Andre Rodrigues Lourenco; de Souza, Katrice Almeida; Ferreira, Jacielle Carolina; Cambri, Lucieli Teresa; Arsa, Gisela] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Cuiaba, MT, Brazil; [Dias, Andre Rodrigues Lourenco] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [dos Santos, Kamila Meireles; Pecanha, Tiago] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Dias, Andre Rodrigues Lourenco] Univ Fed Mato Grosso Campus Cuiaba, Programa Posgrad Educ Fis FEF UFMT, Ave Fernando Correa da Costa 2367, BR-78060900 Cuiaba, MT, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564564700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Mala, Jesse; Corral, Michael D.; McGarry, Jennifer E.; Macauley, Charles D. T.; Arinze, Nneka A.; Ebron, Kolin								Positive Impacts of a Sport Intervention on Male Students of Color and School Climate								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			36	52		10.1080/02701367.2020.1789039			JAN 2 2022	2022	A positive school climate is strongly associated with enhanced student outcomes. With the disengagement of Black and Latinx youth living in poverty being at an all-time high, participation in sport-based youth development (SBYD) programs may enhance school climate, while capitalizing on existing interests.Purpose:The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of a SBYD intervention on male students of color and school climate.Method:Using a mixed-methods quasi-experimental design, 32 male students of color (11 Black, 13 Latinx, 8 two or more races) participated in an SBYD intervention, twice a week for a total of 20 weeks (Ages 10-14,M= 11.46). School climate data were gathered at the beginning and the end of the school year. Student, teacher, and administrator focus groups and interviews were also conducted at the end of the year.Results:A statistically significant interaction was found between students who participated in the intervention and those who did not participate in the intervention, on school climate measuresF(1,74) = 15.00,p< .01, partial eta(2) = .17. Overall school climate scores were statistically significantly greater in the intervention group (F(1,74) = 19.22,p< .01, partial eta(2) = .20) at the end of the year. Focus group data also revealed themes of improved school connectedness, peer support, the acquisition of social/civic skills, and school engagement.Conclusions:A SBYD intervention may be a viable strategy to engage disconnected students and increase school climate perceptions, particularly among male students of color living in poverty.		[Mala, Jesse; Corral, Michael D.; McGarry, Jennifer E.; Macauley, Charles D. T.; Arinze, Nneka A.; Ebron, Kolin] Univ Connecticut, Storrs, CT USA; [Mala, Jesse] Univ Connecticut, Neag Sch Educ, 249 Glenbrook Rd,Unit 3093, Storrs, CT 06269 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000563412100001	118	Article; Article		
J	Peker, Alper Tunga; Erkmen, Nurtekin; Kocaoglu, Yagmur; Bayraktar, Yasemin; Arguz, Abdullah; Wagman, Jeffrey B.; Stoffregen, Thomas A.								Perception of Affordances for Vertical and Horizontal Jumping in Children: Gymnasts Versus Non-Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			770	778		10.1080/02701367.2020.1775768			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: We investigated the perception of affordances for vertical jumping-and-reaching and horizontal jumping by children.Method: In the horizontal task, children were asked to judge their ability in the standing long jump. In the vertical task, children were asked to judge the height of a ball that they could run to, jump up, and reach with their fingertips. Following judgments, children performed both types of jumps. We compared gymnasts (children with at least 2 years of gymnastics training; 7.92 +/- 0.91 years) versus children with no competitive athletic experience (7.74 +/- 0.86 years).Results: As expected, actual ability was greater in gymnasts than in non-athletes, for both types of jump (eachp< .001). We separately analyzed Constant Error and Absolute Error of judgments (relative to actual performance). Results revealed that gymnasts tended toward underestimation, while non-athletes tended toward overestimation. Absolute error differed between tasks for the non-athletes (p< .001), but for the gymnasts the difference between conditions was not significant (p= .25). Absolute error differed between groups for vertical jump-and-reach (p< .01) but not for horizonal jump (p= .17).Conclusions: Gymnastics experience was associated with a generalized tendency for children to underestimate their jumping ability. In addition, gymnastics experience was associated with judgment accuracy that was consistent across tasks. The results reveal that gymnastics training is associated with changes in athletic ability, but also with changes in the perception of affordances.		[Peker, Alper Tunga; Stoffregen, Thomas A.] Univ Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Erkmen, Nurtekin; Kocaoglu, Yagmur; Bayraktar, Yasemin] Selcuk Univ, Konya, Turkey; [Arguz, Abdullah] Karamanoglu Mehmetbey Univ, Karaman, Turkey; [Wagman, Jeffrey B.] Illinois State Univ, Normal, IL 61761 USA; [Stoffregen, Thomas A.] Univ Minnesota, Sch Kinesiol, 1900 Univ Ave SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000563354000001	39	Article; Article		
J	Takamido, Ryota; Yokoyama, Keiko; Yamamoto, Yuji								Effect of Manipulating Advanced Kinematic Information on Hitting Movement Prediction, Perception, and Action								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			747	759		10.1080/02701367.2020.1773375			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: This study examined the effect of manipulating advanced kinematic information about opponents' pitching movement on ball speed prediction, ball speed perception, and impact timing errors under strict temporal constraints (i.e., a softball game).Method: Three experiments were conducted using visual stimuli consisting of varied kinematic information-different pitching movements with the same ball trajectory. In Experiment 1, participants observed the pitching movement of the visual stimuli and predicted pitched ball speed as a two-interval forced choice discrimination task (2IFC). In Experiment 2, participants observed both the pitching movement and ball trajectory, and evaluated the pitched ball speed as a 2IFC. In Experiments 3a and 3b, they tried to swing against the pitched ball presented on the screen as accurately as possible with regard to timing.Results: Batters tended to predict the ball was moving faster when the pitching movement was faster (Experiment 1). Incorrectly predicting the ball speed due to the difference in advanced kinematic information also biased batters' perception of the speed (Experiment 2), and this biased prediction yielded congruent impact timing (Experiment 3a). The impact timing error of naive participants also was affected by kinematic information (Experiment 3b).Conclusion: Limitations of this study (representative task design, sample size, and experimental procedures) notwithstanding, results indicate that, under strict temporal constraints, batters' perceptions and actions are sensitive to advanced kinematic information, which could lead to biased perceptions and actions.		[Takamido, Ryota; Yokoyama, Keiko; Yamamoto, Yuji] Nagoya Univ, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Takamido, Ryota] Nagoya Univ, Dept Educ & Human Dev, Nagoya, Aichi 4648601, Japan								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000563808700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Papadopoulou, Souzana K.; Feidantsis, Konstantinos G.; Hassapidou, Maria N.; Methenitis, Spyridon								The Specific Impact of Nutrition and Physical Activity on Adolescents' Body Composition and Energy Balance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			736	746		10.1080/02701367.2020.1773374			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: The aim of the present study was to identify the contribution of nutrition, physical activity (PA), and total energy intake and expenditure on body weight and composition in adolescents.Methods: Body composition, PA, and dietary intakes from 904 Greek adolescents (446 boys and 458 girls; Age: 14.6 +/- 1.5 yrs), were evaluated. All participants were assigned into three groups according to their age-sex adjusted Fat Mass Index: (A) Normal weight (N;N= 503), (B) Overweight (OW;N= 253), and (C) Obese (O;N= 148).Results: Significant differences were found for body weight and composition, basal metabolic rate (BMR) expressed per kg of body mass (normal weight children exhibited the highest values), physical-total energy expenditure, and energy balances between the groups (eta(2): 0.138 to 0.657;p< .05). In contrast, no differences were found for macronutrients' and total energy intakes, food consumption and quality (eta(2): 0.002 to 0.099;p> .05) between the three examined groups. Strong, negative correlations were observed between body weight, body fat percentage, PA, and total energy expenditure (r: -0.311 to -0.810;p< .001). Lower, negative correlations were found between body weight, body fat percentage, and macronutrients' daily intakes (r:-0.235 to -0.432;p< .05). BMR and total energy expenditure had strong, negative relative strengths for the determination of body weight and fat percentage.Conclusions: In conclusion, it seems that BMR, PA, and total daily energy expenditure expressed per body weight and not the nutritional and total energy intakes, were the primary determinant parameters of body composition and weight in adolescents.		[Papadopoulou, Souzana K.; Feidantsis, Konstantinos G.; Hassapidou, Maria N.; Methenitis, Spyridon] Int Hellen Univ, Thermi, Greece; [Feidantsis, Konstantinos G.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Methenitis, Spyridon] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Athens, Greece; [Methenitis, Spyridon] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Sports Performance, Athens 17237, Greece								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000563389500001	49	Article; Article		
J	Cupples, Balin; O'Connor, Donna; Cobley, Stephen								Assessing the Ecological-Context Strengths of School-Based Talent Development Programs in Rugby League								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			723	735		10.1080/02701367.2020.1769010			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: Adopting an ecological perspective, the study explored the context-strengths of three successful school-based TDEs in rugby league.Method: Utilizing a mixed methods approach, incorporating validated psychometric questionnaires (N = 118) and semi-structured interviews, various stakeholder perspectives (N = 30; i.e., current/past students and coaches) were triangulated and corroborated to identify TDE ecological strengths.Results: Compared to benchmark TDE data, and supplemented by descriptions of TDE features and processes, results confirmed strong coherence to "effective" factors in TDE literature. Collective "ecological strengths" included quantitative findings of a highly supportive culture, shared "person" and "athlete" desired outcomes, and a long-term focus; and qualitative features of high behavioral expectations, strong values of hard work, and the promotion of personal ownership in athlete development. Opportunities to enhance TDE effectiveness were also identified, with psychological skill development (e.g., self-reflection, coping) and balancing intra-rugby league pathway demands (i.e., competition/training loads) highlighted.Conclusion: Findings identify characteristics, components, and processes of school-TDE environments associated with successful athlete development in schools and beyond (i.e., transition into an athlete development pathway).		[Cupples, Balin; O'Connor, Donna; Cobley, Stephen] Univ Sydney, Camperdown, NSW, Australia; [Cupples, Balin] Univ Sydney, Sydney Sch Educ & Social Work, Educ Bldg A35, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000562812100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Aziz, Keith T.; Best, Matthew J.; Ren, Mark; Nayar, Suresh K.; Timothy Kreulen, R.; Gupta, Hari Om; Srikumaran, Uma								The impact of chronic steroid use on early postoperative complications in shoulder surgery								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			223	228		10.1080/00913847.2020.1811616			APR 3 2021	2021	Objectives Chronic steroid use has been associated with poor healing and worse long-term outcomes in patients undergoing orthopedic surgery, but the specific risk profile and short-term complications related to chronic steroids in patients undergoing outpatient shoulder surgery are inadequately defined. The purpose of this study is to characterize the effects of chronic steroids on 30-day post-operative complications following arthroscopic and open shoulder surgery. Methods The American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program was used to identify patients who underwent arthroscopic and open rotator cuff repair, shoulder stabilization, and associated procedures from 2011 to 2018. Patients on chronic steroids were compared with patients not on chronic steroids. Demographic data and 30-day postoperative complications were analyzed. Multivariable logistic regression was used to isolate the effects of chronic steroid use on postoperative complications. Results We identified 99,970 patients who underwent shoulder surgery during this period, of which 1.7% (1,662 patients) were on chronic steroids. Patients on chronic steroids were older (58.3 +/- 0.30vs52.1 +/- 0.05 years, p < 0.01), had higher average BMI (30.6 vs 30.1, p = 0.02), and were more likely to be female (54.9%vs38.0%, p < 0.01) and white (76.2%vs73.1%, p < 0.01). Patients on steroids had a higher American Society of Anesthesiologists class, and higher rates of diabetes, CHF, COPD, hypertension, bleeding disorders, and functionally dependency (all P < 0.01). Patients on chronic steroids were less likely to smoke (P < 0.01). Multivariable logistic regression revealed that chronic steroid use was an independent risk factor for major (OR 2.20[1.51-3.21], p < 0.001), minor (OR 2.32[1.13-3.2], p < 0.001), and infectious complications (OR 1.90[1.13-3.2], p = 0.01). Conclusions Preoperative chronic steroid use is independently associated with increased odds of major, minor, and infectious complications after open and arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, shoulder stabilization, and associated procedures. Patients on chronic steroids should be counseled about their increased risk for these complications, and both preoperative risk stratification and optimization should be employed to minimize perioperative risk.		[Aziz, Keith T.; Best, Matthew J.; Ren, Mark; Nayar, Suresh K.; Timothy Kreulen, R.; Gupta, Hari Om; Srikumaran, Uma] Johns Hopkins Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA; [Aziz, Keith T.] Johns Hopkins Dept Orthopaed Surg, Baltimore, MD 21218 USA								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000564081400001	50	Article; Article		
J	Leicht, Anthony S.; Connor, Jonathan; Conduit, Nathan; Vaquera, Alejandro; Gomez, Miguel A.								Impact of Match Type on Exercise Volume and Intensity of Semi-Professional Basketball Referees During a Competitive Season								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			843	850		10.1080/02701367.2020.1788207			OCT 2 2021	2021	Identification of the exercise volume and intensity of basketball referees, across competitive match types based on competition sex and level, would assist in developing appropriate training regimes.Purpose: The aims of this study were to quantify and compare the exercise volume and intensity encountered by semiprofessional basketball referees during different match types across a competitive season.Method: Sixteen referees participated and were monitored for absolute and relative PlayerLoad (PL) using microsensors during 25 semiprofessional matches (12 men's, 13 women's, 17 regular season, eight playoff). Comparisons between match types (men's vs. women's; regular season vs. playoff) were examined via independent t-tests or Mann-Whitney U tests, and repeated measures ANOVA with the magnitude of differences calculated via effect size.Results: Referees experienced an absolute PL of similar to 365 arbitrary units (AU) per match that was similar for men's, women's, regular season, and playoff matches during a competitive season. Relative PL was significantly greater (5.35 +/- 0.82 vs. 4.26 +/- 0.59 AU.min(-1),p<.001, effect size = 1.57) during women's matches with a greater proportion of each quarter and match spent within PL band 2 compared to men's matches (11.6 +/- 2.2 vs. 8.8 +/- 1.4%,p<.001, effect size = 1.53), likely due to a reduced number of referees officiating. Minimal differences existed between the regular season and playoff matches for absolute PL, relative PL, and proportion of quarter/match time within PL bands.Conclusion: The current study confirmed that referees experienced considerable exercise volume and intensity per match during a competitive season with these influenced primarily by referee configuration. The current results provide crucial information to develop effective training regimes for referees during a competitive season.		[Leicht, Anthony S.; Connor, Jonathan; Conduit, Nathan; Gomez, Miguel A.] James Cook Univ, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Vaquera, Alejandro] Univ Leon, Leon, Spain; [Gomez, Miguel A.] Univ Politecn Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Leicht, Anthony S.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld 4811, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000562607600001	28	Article; Article		
J	Lucarno, Simona; Zago, Matteo; Rossi, Emanuele; Muratore, Simone; Baroncini, Giulia; Alberti, Giampietro; Gualtieri, Domenico								Influence of age and sex on drop jump landing strategies in elite youth soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	2			344	351	1747954120952577	10.1177/1747954120952577			APR 2021	2021	The vertical drop jump (VDJ) test evaluates frontal-plane knee control in a controlled environment. Age- and sex-related changes in landing and bouncing mechanisms in youth soccer players are still under investigated. This study characterizes knee biomechanics in a large cohort of elite academy players, stratified by sex and age group. A sample of 189 young soccer players (132 male U10-U12 and U14-U17, 57 females U10-U14) from the Academy of a professional "Serie A" Italian club were tested. Motion capture technology was used to obtain sagittal and frontal plane knee angles, as well as VDJ landing asymmetry and peak vertical ground reaction forces at push-off. Landing kinetics and kinematics changed as a function of age and sex in youth elite soccer players: (i) males and females showed different landing load asymmetry between dominant and non-dominant leg, peak push-off force and knee flexion even before puberty, (ii) landing asymmetry tended to reduce in older players and (iii) knee varus increased in males after adolescence. In conclusion, besides its role in injury prevention, the VDJ can help in monitoring players' growth and development, and this process should start at an early age. This data collection could be used as a tool for further screening test to highlight anomalous landing behaviour.		[Lucarno, Simona; Rossi, Emanuele; Muratore, Simone; Baroncini, Giulia] AC Milan SpA, Youth Sect, Athlet Area, Milan, Italy; [Zago, Matteo] Politecn Milan, Dipartimento Elettron Informaz & Bioingn, Via Golgi 39, I-20133 Milan, Italy; [Zago, Matteo] Politecn Milan, E4Sport Lab, Milan, Italy; [Alberti, Giampietro; Gualtieri, Domenico] Univ Milan, Dipartimento Sci Biomed Salute, Milan, Italy; [Zago, Matteo] Politecn Milan, Dipartimento Elettron Informaz & Bioingn, Via Golgi 39, I-20133 Milan, Italy								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000563013800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Beckham, George K.; Martin, Eric; Layne, Danielle K.; Luke, Ryan; Mayhew, Jerry L.								Assessing full body impulsive ability using a range of medicine ball loads for the backward overhead medicine ball throw								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	10			1278	1289		10.1080/14763141.2020.1797149			OCT 3 2023	2023	The potential for high performance in many sports can be assessed by quantifying whole-body explosiveness. The backwards overhead medicine ball (BOMB) throw is commonly-used to tests this ability, but the effect of varied loading on test execution is unknown. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of different medicine ball (MB) loads on force, velocity, and power output during the BOMB throw. Female collegiate softball and rugby players (n=31) performed the BOMB throw on a force plate using 2.7, 3.6, 4.5, and 5.5 kg MBs, with three throws per load in a randomised order, and 30 seconds rest between throws. A series of Repeated Measures ANOVAs noted no differences (p>0.05) in peak power, peak force, peak velocity, force at the moment of peak power, or velocity at the moment of peak power, across MB loads. The lack of differences among these loads indicates that coaches can likely compare kinetic characteristics of the BOMB throw within this range (2.7-5.5 kg). Therefore, coaches can use the BOMB throw with 2.7-5.5 kg MBs for training or measurement among female athletes to obtain reference data for programming or evaluation.		[Beckham, George K.; Martin, Eric; Layne, Danielle K.; Luke, Ryan] Calif State Univ Monterey Bay, Dept Kinesiol, Seaside, CA 93955 USA; [Mayhew, Jerry L.] Truman State Univ, Hlth & Exercise Sci Dept, Kirksville, MO USA; [Beckham, George K.] Calif State Univ Monterey Bay, Dept Kinesiol, Seaside, CA 93955 USA								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000561930900001	55	Article; Article		
J	Hinkle, Andrew J.; Brown, Symone M.; Mulcahey, Mary K.								Gender disparity among NBA and WNBA team physicians								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			219	222		10.1080/00913847.2020.1811065			APR 3 2021	2021	Background Female physicians are underrepresented across a broad range of medical specialties, especially at senior levels. Previous research demonstrated poor representation of women in sports medicine leadership roles in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) compared to their male colleagues. Purpose The purpose of this study was to evaluate the distribution of men and women among team physicians on the medical staffs of National Basketball Association (NBA) and Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) teams in the last 10 years and assess regional differences in representation of female physicians. Methods A Google search of publicly available data regarding team physician gender, medical specialty, and medical degree was conducted in October 2019 for team physicians in the NBA and WNBA over the last 10 years. Descriptive statistics were used to analyze the data. This data was then stratified by physician specialty and region of country in which NBA/WNBA franchises are located to provide regional comparison of team physician characteristics. Results We identified 125 team physicians for NBA franchises. Of these, 122 (97.6%) were male and 3 (2.4%) were female. In the WNBA, a total of 28 physicians were identified. 20 (71.4%) were male and 8 (28.6%) were female. The Northeast had the highest proportion of female team physicians, with 5 of 18 (27.8%). Female physicians were represented in the remaining geographic regions as follows: 3 of 41 (7.3%) in the Midwest, 2 of 45 (4.4%) in the South, and 1 of 48 (2.1%) in the West. Conclusion This study demonstrates a substantial difference in the number of female physicians with leadership roles in both the NBA and WNBA compared to male physicians. It is important to try to understand what barriers female physicians face in their pursuit of upper level positions in sports medicine and to implement strategies to provide equal opportunities to both male and female physicians.		[Hinkle, Andrew J.] Tulane Univ, Sch Med, 1430 Tulane Ave, New Orleans, LA 70112 USA; [Brown, Symone M.; Mulcahey, Mary K.] Tulane Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New Orleans, LA 70112 USA; [Mulcahey, Mary K.] Tulane Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New Orleans, LA 70112 USA								15							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000565399000001	15	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Junshi; Qu, Xingda; Stone, Michael H.								Evaluation of force-time curve analysis methods in the isometric mid-thigh pull test								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	11			1381	1397		10.1080/14763141.2020.1800810			NOV 2 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the manual and automatic analysis methods for force-time curve analysis of the isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP) test. The visual analysis, first derivative analysis and threshold analysis methods were used to analyse onset time and time-specific forces at 50 ms, 90 ms, 200 ms and 250 ms on the force-time curve. Ninety-three collegiate sports athletes' trials were selected and analysed by each method. The visual analysis method was set as the reference method for paired comparisons with the first derivative analysis method and threshold analysis method. Onset time comparisons revealed that the first derivative analysis method was comparable with the visual analysis method with average difference at about 30 ms. Results from the weighted least products regression analysis and the Bland-Altman analysis showed that large fixed bias confounded by proportional bias existed in the threshold analysis method, and time-specific force variables obtained from the first derivative analysis method were closer to those from the visual analysis method when compared with the threshold analysis method. These findings suggest that the first derivative analysis method could be an effective tool for force-time curve analysis of the IMTP test.		[Liu, Junshi; Qu, Xingda] Shenzhen Univ, Inst Human Factors & Ergon, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Liu, Junshi] Shenzhen Univ, Key Lab Optoelect Devices & Syst, Minist Educ & Guangdong Prov, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN USA; [Qu, Xingda] Shenzhen Univ, Inst Human Factors & Ergon, Shenzhen, Peoples R China								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000561939500001	32	Article; Article		
J	Zhu, Qiao; Shen, Hejun; Chen, Ang								Learning to Teach Physical Education for Health: Breaking the Curriculum Safety Zone								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			701	714		10.1080/02701367.2020.1769008			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: Based on the theorized concept "Curriculum Safety Zone (CSZ)," this study was conducted to identify the factors for breaking CSZ by contrasting the experiential accounts of two pre-service teacher groups who taught within or outside of their CSZ.Method: Pre-service teachers (n = 14) from a sport-centered PETE program were trained to teach a Health-First curriculum module and their peers (n = 14) a traditional sport module. Each group taught their respective module to 14 intact 7th grade classes in 14 schools in China. A mixed-methods design was used. Quantitative data on learner knowledge gain were collected from the learners. Qualitative data included lesson observation fieldnotes, social-media posts, and interview responses and were gathered from the pre-service teachers.Results: Learners in the Health-First schools gained more knowledge than those in the Comparison schools (t(26) = 2.92,p= .007, Cohen's d = 1.10). Qualitative evidence was triangulated using a Health-First vs. Comparison contrasting approach with open-, axial-, and selective-coding to generate themes. The themes were Confidence in Doubt, Lesson Plans to the Rescue, Professional Development is Necessary But horizontal ellipsis , and Student Learning Save the Day! A grounded theory was developed using the themes and interpreted using the Interconnection Model of Teacher Professional Growth.Conclusion: Breaking CSZ requires a synergistic effort with carefully designed professional development, detailed lesson plans, an effective support network, and, most important of all, a powerful curriculum that can elicit observable and measurable learner achievement.		[Zhu, Qiao; Shen, Hejun] Nanjing Sport Inst, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Chen, Ang] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, Greensboro, NC USA; [Zhu, Qiao] Nanjing Sport Inst, Dept Phys Educ, 8 Linggusi Rd, Nanjing 210014, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000561140500001	25	Article; Article		
J	Sommerfield, Lesley M.; Whatman, Chris S.; Harrison, Craig B.; Maulder, Peter S.; Borotkanics, Robert J.								The effect of a school based injury prevention program on physical performance in youth females								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			81	90	1747954120952211	10.1177/1747954120952211			FEB 2021	2021	Injury prevention (IP) programs can reduce injury in youth, however, little is known about their impact on athletic performance, especially in females. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of a school curriculum IP program on movement skill and athletic performance in youth females. Ninety-two female students (age 14.0 +/- 0.6 y, height 162.5 +/- 5.8 cm, mass 57.1 +/- 9.3 kg, intervention (INT)n = 43, control (CON)n = 49) participated in this study. The INT group completed a 23 week IP program whereas the CON group continued normal physical education class. Sprint, countermovement jump (CMJ), isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP), y-balance, back squat assessment (BSA), and drop vertical jump (DVJ) were assessed. An independent-samples t-test revealed that the INT group performed significantly better on all tests at baseline (p = <0.05), except single-leg CMJ power. Ordered regression models showed the INT group were more likely to improve their score on the BSA and DVJ (OR = 0.14 and 0.20) compared to the CON group. Marginal analysis revealed a significantly greater increase in y-balance composite measures for the INT group [mean difference (95% CI) = 2.07 (0.48 to 3.66) and 2.66 (1.03 to 4.29), p < 0.05] and relative IMTP for the CON group [mean difference (95% CI) = -0.34 (-0.60 to -0.08), p < 0.05). These findings highlight that a long-term IP program integrated into the school curriculum can improve movement skill and balance in youth females.		[Sommerfield, Lesley M.; Whatman, Chris S.; Harrison, Craig B.; Maulder, Peter S.; Borotkanics, Robert J.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Maulder, Peter S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Sommerfield, Lesley M.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Millennium Campus,17 Antares Pl, Auckland 0632, New Zealand								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000562286500001	51	Article; Article		
J	Pulido, Juan J.; Leo, Francisco M.; Gonzalez-Ponce, Inmaculada; Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel A.; Sanchez-Oliva, David								Methodological intervention with soccer coaches to improve athlete-perceived coaching competency, satisfaction with the coach, enjoyment and intention to persist								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			16	26	1747954120952069	10.1177/1747954120952069			FEB 2021	2021	Objectives The purpose of the study was to assess the effect of a coaching intervention on soccer athletes' perceptions of the coaches' competencies, enjoyment, satisfaction, and intention to persist in the sport. Equipment and methods:The sample consisted of 117 young male soccer players and eight of their coaches who were divided into two groups: group receiving the coaching effectiveness intervention (EG) (n = 4;M-age = 32.50 years,SD = 14.24) with an average of 3.00 years of training experience (SD = 2.44); and control group (CG) (n = 4;M-age = 28.50 years,SD = 13.67) with an average of 6.25 years of training experience (SD = 2.87), and their 117 young male soccer players from 45 teams, aged between 10 and 16 years (M-age = 13.78,SD = 1.38). Focused on coach-effectiveness, coaches from EG received a 12-hour training program. Self-report questionnaires were administered to the athletes both at the beginning and the end of the intervention. A repeated-measures ANOVA was carried out for each dependent variable. Results The results showed significant changes in coaches' game strategy competency, technique competency, and character-building competency as perceived by the players from the EG compared with the players from the CG. Also, both the CG and the EG athletes decreased their satisfaction with the coach. Thus, these types of interventions are effective for improving and maintaining over time variables related to athletes' perception of their coaches' competency, their own enjoyment, and intention to persist practicing sports.		[Pulido, Juan J.; Lopez-Gajardo, Miguel A.; Sanchez-Oliva, David] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Avda Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Pulido, Juan J.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Leo, Francisco M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Teacher Training, Caceres, Spain; [Gonzalez-Ponce, Inmaculada] Univ Extremadura, Fac Educ, Caceres, Spain; [Pulido, Juan J.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Avda Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000562038800001	48	Article; Article		
J	MacIntyre, Rachel I.; Heron, Kristin E.; Howard, Lindsay M.; Downs, Danielle Symons								Gender and Black-White Race Differences in Young Adult Exercise Dependence Prevalence and Associated Disordered Eating								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			680	688		10.1080/02701367.2020.1767757			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: Exercise dependence, an unhealthy preoccupation with exercise that results in physiological and psychological symptoms, may be particularly prevalent among college students given sociocultural exercise and body ideals in this population. Yet few studies have examined this phenomenon in diverse college samples. The aims of the present study were to examine gender and Black-White race differences in the prevalence of exercise dependence and associated disordered eating.Method: Undergraduates (N= 839) completed online measures of exercise dependence and disordered eating. Chi square tests were used to test for differences in prevalence, and linear regression was used to examine race and gender moderating effects on the exercise dependence-disordered eating association.Results: More men reported exercise dependence symptoms than women. More White participants reported symptoms than Black participants. Of the four gender and race combinations examined, White men had the highest proportion and Black women the lowest proportion experiencing symptoms. Gender, but not race, moderated the exercise dependence-disordered eating association.Conclusions: Although more men experience exercise dependence symptoms, women experience stronger associations between exercise dependence symptoms and disordered eating. The number of students who reported exercise dependence symptoms underscores the need for further research in this population and the development of culturally sensitive interventions.		[MacIntyre, Rachel I.; Heron, Kristin E.; Howard, Lindsay M.] Virginia Consortium Program Clin Psychol, Norfolk, VA USA; [Heron, Kristin E.] Old Dominion Univ, 250 Mills Godwin Bldg, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA; [Downs, Danielle Symons] Penn State Univ, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [MacIntyre, Rachel I.] Old Dominion Univ, 250 Mills Godwin Bldg, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000560486800001	39	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Tan; Wang, Yubing; Yli-Piipari, Sami; Chen, Ang								Power of the Curriculum: Content, Context, and Learning in Physical Education								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			689	700		10.1080/02701367.2020.1768202			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: It is argued that the constructivist physical education has the potential to overcome socioeconomic (SES) constraints and promote learning. The purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which school SES-related class environmental factors influenced student learning in a constructivist physical education context. Methods: Students in 8th grade (N=1,256) from 10 middle schools with varied SES were tested on exercise knowledge before and after a constructivist physical education intervention. School SES was determined using free and reduced meal ratio (FARM) and physical education related factors. Data on lesson frequency, length, facilities, equipment, and class size were collected from teachers. Results: Hierarchical linear model analyses reveal that SES is not predictive of intervention induced learning (gamma=0.73, t=.91, p=.37). Lesson frequency (gamma(02)=.52, t=.31, p=.06), length (.03=-.03, t=-1.82, p=.07), facilities (gamma(04)=-.11, t=-.49, p=.63), equipment (gamma(05)=-.36, t=-1.36, p=.18), and class size (gamma(06)=-.05, t=-1.36, p=.18) are not predictive of learning. Student prior knowledge (gamma=-.59, t=-18.37, p<.001) and teacher factor (gamma=.04, t=3.72, p <.001) are predictive of learning. Conclusion: The findings suggest that school SES's detrimental impact on learning in physical education could be overcome by the power of a constructivist curriculum.		[Zhang, Tan] Winston Salem State Univ, Winston Salem, NC USA; [Wang, Yubing] Univ Wisconsin, Whitewater, WI 53190 USA; [Yli-Piipari, Sami] Univ Georgia, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Chen, Ang] Univ N Carolina, Greensboro, NC USA; [Zhang, Tan] Winston Salem State Univ, Dept Hlth Phys Educ & Sport Studies, 601 S Martin Luther King Jr Dr, Winston Salem, NC 27110 USA								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000561840800001	34	Article; Article		
J	Goffena, Jordan D.; Horn, Thelma S.								The relationship between coach behavior and athlete self-regulated learning								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			3	15	1747954120951903	10.1177/1747954120951903			FEB 2021	2021	The purpose of this study was to investigate the hypothesized link between athletes' perception of coach behavior and their self-regulation of sport learning. Self-report questionnaires were administered to 140 Division-I National Collegiate Athletic Association athletes to assess aspects of coach control, autonomy support, and athlete self-regulated learning. From a person-centered approach, a cluster analysis resulted in the identification of three groups which exhibited contrasting profiles of coach behavior. Groupings consisted of athletes who were highly supported, moderately supported and controlled, and highly controlled. From a variable-centered approach, a canonical correlation analysis was performed followed by individual univariate analyses. The results offer both person-level and variable-level support for the relationship between coach behavior and self-regulated learning. Overall, a positive relationship between autonomy-supportive coaching and athlete self-regulation was found. Future directions for research and practical applications for coaching are discussed.		[Goffena, Jordan D.] George Mason Univ, Div Educ Psychol & Res Methods, Fairfax, VA 22030 USA; [Horn, Thelma S.] Miami Univ, Dept Sport Leadership & Management, Oxford, OH 45056 USA; [Goffena, Jordan D.] George Mason Univ, Div Educ Psychol & Res Methods, Fairfax, VA 22030 USA								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000562130300001	66	Article; Article		
J	Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel; Sanchez-Franco, Manuel J.; Prado Gasco, Vicente								The effect of articulated sports sponsorship on recall and visual attention to the brand								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	3			493	506		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2019-0129			JUN 14 2021	2021	Purpose The objective is to examine the influence of articulation on the effectiveness of sports sponsorship. Design/methodology/approach This research uses an experimental design with the following factors: articulation (articulated vs unarticulated), congruence (congruent and incongruent) and sporting discipline (tennis,F1 and sailing). Findings Even though the academic literature argues that articulation improves the indicators of performance, the authors have been unable to demonstrate that articulated sports posters have an influence on visual attention, congruence or recall. The results show that articulation diverts visual attention from the brand to the text, diminishing recall. Originality/value This is the first manuscript to use neurophysiological measures of the articulation effect. This is also the first manuscript that examines the differences in attention between articulated sponsorships based on their congruence.		[Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Granada, Dept Mkt & Market Res, Granada, Spain; [Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Adm, Concepcion, Chile; [Sanchez-Franco, Manuel J.] Univ Seville, Seville, Spain; [Prado Gasco, Vicente] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Granada, Dept Mkt & Market Res, Granada, Spain; [Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Dept Adm, Concepcion, Chile								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000562902000001	57	Article; Article		
J	Mason, Robert J.; Farrow, Damian; Hattie, John A. C.								An exploratory investigation into the reception of verbal and video feedback provided to players in an Australian Football League club								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				16	1			181	191	1747954120951080	10.1177/1747954120951080			FEB 2021	2021	Coach observation studies commonly examine training and competition environments, with little attention paid to the ways in which coaches provide video feedback in a performance analysis setting. In addition, few studies have considered the reception of feedback by an athlete, or the characteristics of the athlete that may support or hinder feedback reception. The purposes of this study were threefold. First, to examine the characteristics of feedback provided by a coach during a typical video feedback meeting. Second, to measure the impact of this feedback on athlete learning. Third, to consider a range of learner characteristics that may impact feedback reception. Six coaches and six players affiliated with an Australian Football League (AFL) club were recruited. Coach-player dyads were observed in one-to-one video feedback meetings following a game played in the 2017 season. Players were interviewed to test feedback recall. Players also completed a series of tests designed to measure learner characteristics, with the intention of discovering moderating factors of the relationship between feedback and learning outcomes. Rates of feedback generally mirrored those found in previous studies. Coaches provided nearly 30 feedback messages during each meeting. Players recalled 50% of summarised feedback messages but just 6% of all feedback a week later. A ceiling effect on learner characteristics was observed. The paper presents a novel design for examining feedback effectiveness while considering learner characteristics. Given the findings on feedback quantity and recall, coaches are encouraged to adopt a 'less is more' approach to providing feedback.		[Mason, Robert J.; Hattie, John A. C.] Univ Melbourne, Melbourne Grad Sch Educ, Parkville, Vic, Australia; [Farrow, Damian] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Mason, Robert J.] Univ Melbourne, Melbourne Grad Sch Educ, Parkville, Vic, Australia								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000561877800001	49	Article; Article		
J	McCullough, Brian P.; Trail, Galen T.								Transformative marketing: health and well-being of Special Olympic athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	3			477	492		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2020-0046			JUN 14 2021	2021	Purpose Transformative marketing provides a way to encourage positive behaviors. This approach can be applied to community intervention organizations, such as the Special Olympics. Such organizations bring services to provide activity, healthy eating, proper healthcare and caretaker education. This study examines one campaign of the 2018 Special Olympics USA Summer Games focusing on health and wellness. Design/methodology/approach The authors surveyed caretakers about these campaigns including their attitudes toward health and wellness and other basic psychographics (i.e. needs/values) to inform a transformative marketing campaign directed to engaging the caretakers. Findings The hierarchical regression shows us is that all the variables combined explain 26.9% of intentions to help their athlete eat as healthily as possible, with needs/values explaining the most variance, even after all of the other variables are in the model. The authors discuss their results and the practical applications of their findings to improve transformative marketing campaigns to achieve desirable social outcomes through the Special Olympics. Originality/value The authors identified what variables uniquely contributed to the intention by caretakers of ID athletes to engage in health and wellness campaigns that benefit their athletes. Future research can apply the results to developing similar sustainability (environmental, social or economic) campaigns using transformative marketing perspectives that will more positively benefit target markets in and through sport.		[McCullough, Brian P.] Texas A&M Univ, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Trail, Galen T.] Seattle Univ, Dept Mkt, Seattle, WA 98122 USA; [McCullough, Brian P.] Texas A&M Univ, College Stn, TX 77843 USA								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000561476400001	45	Article; Article		
J	Polo-Pena, Ana Isabel; Frias-Jamilena, Dolores Maria; Fernandez-Ruano, Maria Lina								Influence of gamification on perceived self-efficacy: gender and age moderator effect								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	3			453	476		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2020-0020			JUN 14 2021	2021	Purpose In advanced societies, lifestyles are increasingly sedentary, and it is important to identify strategies to help people acquire healthy habits, such as exercise. The present study proposes the use of gamification as a strategy for encouraging users to exercise regularly, based on the possibilities offered by "smart" devices such as smartbands. Design/methodology/approach The work analyzes how individuals experience their participation in a gamification program, on the premise that it should provide an experience that is intrinsically motivating and fun. Also the moderator effect of the gender and age on the relationship between their experience of participating in a gamification program and perceived self-efficacy. Findings The results show that individuals' experience of participating in a gamification program exerts a positive influence on their perceived self-efficacy in the practice of sport or exercise. The study also finds that the variables "gender" and "age" moderate the relationship between their experience of participating in a gamification program and perceived self-efficacy, such that it exerts a greater influence on women and older people. Practical implications The practical implications for the professionals and institutions involved in promoting the adoption of regular sport and exercise in society are about taking advantage of the potential of wearable technology such as smartbands. The present study finds that the use of gamification for encouraging people to adopt regular physical activity is more effective for women than for men, and for older people than for younger users. Originality/value The findings of this study provide a better understanding of whether gamification is an appropriate strategy for helping participants to perceive themselves as having greater self-efficacy in their chosen sport or exercise, taking into account the moderating effect of participant gender and age.		[Polo-Pena, Ana Isabel; Frias-Jamilena, Dolores Maria; Fernandez-Ruano, Maria Lina] Univ Granada, Dept Mkt & Market Res, Granada, Spain; [Polo-Pena, Ana Isabel] Univ Granada, Dept Mkt & Market Res, Granada, Spain								41							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000558384300001	113	Article; Article		
J	Behnam, Mohsen; Do Young Pyun; Doyle, Jason P.; Delshab, Vahid								The impact of consumer knowledge on profitable consumer loyalty through perceived service quality and psychological involvement in non-profit sport clubs								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	2			407	427		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2020-0039			APR 6 2021	2021	Purpose The purpose of this research was to test the influence of consumer knowledge management on attitudinal and behavioral loyalty through service quality and psychological involvement. Design/methodology/approach The participants (N = 396) were recruited through a convenience sampling technique from non-profit sport clubs in Iran. Data were analyzed with the Structural Equation Modeling using Mplus 7.4. Findings The results revealed that the effects of service quality on psychological involvement were dependent on consumer knowledge management. Furthermore, there were the mediating effects of service quality and psychological involvement in the relationships between the consumer knowledge management and loyalty. Practical implications The research findings provide valuable insights for non-profit sport club managers seeking to better attract and retain their consumers by demonstrating the importance of investing in consumer knowledge management initiatives. Managers should thus integrate knowledge orientation into their marketing and relationship management strategies and apply the strategy into consumer knowledge within club services. Originality/value This study empirically highlights the important role of knowledge from, for and about the consumer on perceived service quality and loyalty building among the non-profit consumer base.		[Behnam, Mohsen] Urmia Univ, Orumiyeh, Iran; [Do Young Pyun] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Doyle, Jason P.] Griffith Univ, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Delshab, Vahid] Univ Kurdistan, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Sanandaj, Iran; [Behnam, Mohsen] Urmia Univ, Orumiyeh, Iran								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000558936600001	105	Article; Article		
J	Kamath, Giridhar B.; Ganguli, Shirshendu; George, Simon								Attachment points, team identification and sponsorship outcomes: evidence from the Indian Premier League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	3			429	452		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2020-0008			JUN 14 2021	2021	Purpose This paper tests and validates a conceptual model linking the attachment points, team identification, attitude towards the team sponsors and the behavioural intentions in the context of Indian Premier League (IPL), while testing for the moderating effects of age and gender. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected from 1,053 participants through both online and offline survey and then analyzed using exploratory factor analysis (EFA) and structural equation modelling (SEM). Findings Attachment points influence the formation of team identification, which, in turn, affect the attitude towards the team sponsors. Attitude towards the team sponsors influence the behavioural intentions. Player attachment influences team identification the most. Age and gender have a moderating effect on the constructs of the study. Team identification in females is stronger because of attachment to sports, whereas males have stronger team identification based on player attachment. Males have a stronger intention to spread positive word of mouth (WOM) about sponsor products as compared to the female respondents. The younger age group of less than 21 years has more intention to spread positive WOM compared to the other age groups considered in the study. Practical implications This study contributes towards sports sponsorship research and the paradigms of social identity and attachment theories. Moreover, it will also help the marketers (sponsors) in IPL to strategically market their brands. Originality/value This is the first study to investigate the impact of attachment points on sponsorship outcomes in the context of IPL. Further, it is also the first to investigate the purchase intentions and WOM for the team sponsors in IPL. The multi-group analysis results will provide insights into marketers to better understand IPL viewers' segments and their behaviour.		[Kamath, Giridhar B.] Manipal Acad Higher Educ, Manipal Inst Technol, Dept Humanities & Management, Manipal, India; [Kamath, Giridhar B.] TA Pai Management Inst, Manipal, India; [Ganguli, Shirshendu; George, Simon] TA Pai Management Inst, Dept Mkt, Manipal, India; [Kamath, Giridhar B.] Manipal Acad Higher Educ, Manipal Inst Technol, Dept Humanities & Management, Manipal, India; [Kamath, Giridhar B.] TA Pai Management Inst, Manipal, India								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000558936400001	141	Article; Article		
J	Burnie, Louise; Barratt, Paul; Davids, Keith; Worsfold, Paul; Wheat, Jon								Biomechanical measures of short-term maximal cycling on an ergometer: a test-retest study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	8			997	1015		10.1080/14763141.2020.1773916			AUG 3 2023	2023	An understanding of test-retest reliability is important for biomechanists, such as when assessing the longitudinal effect of training or equipment interventions. Our aim was to quantify the test-retest reliability of biomechanical variables measured during short-term maximal cycling. Fourteen track sprint cyclists performed 3 x 4 s seated sprints at 135 rpm on an isokinetic ergometer, repeating the session 7.6 +/- 2.5 days later. Joint moments were calculated via inverse dynamics, using pedal forces and limb kinematics. EMG activity was measured for 9 lower limb muscles. Reliability was explored by quantifying systematic and random differences within- and between-session. Within-session reliability was better than between-sessions reliability. The test-retest reliability level was typically moderate to excellent for the biomechanical variables that describe maximal cycling. However, some variables, such as peak knee flexion moment and maximum hip joint power, demonstrated lower reliability, indicating that care needs to be taken when using these variables to evaluate biomechanical changes. Although measurement error (instrumentation error, anatomical marker misplacement, soft tissue artefacts) can explain some of our reliability observations, we speculate that biological variability may also be a contributor to the lower repeatability observed in several variables including ineffective crank force, ankle kinematics and hamstring muscles' activation patterns.		[Burnie, Louise] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Technol Exercise & Med Res Ctr, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Burnie, Louise; Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Phys Act Res Ctr, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Burnie, Louise; Worsfold, Paul] English Inst Sport, Biomech, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Barratt, Paul] Team INEOS, Performance Support, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Worsfold, Paul] Univ Chester, Sport & Exercise Sci, Chester, Cheshire, England; [Wheat, Jon] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Coll Hlth Wellbeing & Life Sci, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Wheat, Jon] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Coll Hlth Wellbeing & Life Sci, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000558490200001	57	Article; Article		
J	Nagao, Hideyuki; Huang, Zhong; Kubo, Yasuyuki								Biomechanical comparison of successful snatch and unsuccessful frontward barbell drop in world-class male weightlifters								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	9			1120	1135		10.1080/14763141.2020.1787498			SEP 2 2023	2023	This study aimed to clarify the success factor of snatch based on barbell trajectory and lifter's motion among elite male weightlifters. Motion analysis of snatch was conducted using digital videos recorded at the 2015 World Weightlifting Championships. Data on successful and unsuccessful snatch lifts of 22 lifters, each using the same weights, were analysed; the unsuccessful lift was due to a frontward barbell drop. Results revealed that the difference in backward barbell displacement between the turnover to catch phase (DxL) and peak backward barbell velocity (pVx-) was significantly greater in successful snatch than in frontward barbell drops (DxL: p < 0.001, d > 5.0, pVx-: p < 0.01, d > 2.0). Backward displacement of the lifters' centre of mass (COM) between the transition to turnover phase in a successful snatch lift was significantly smaller than that in an unsuccessful lift (p < 0.05, d > 2.0). It is considered that there was excessive backward leaning during unsuccessful lifts. However, no significant difference in maximum barbell height (Dy1) was found. Based on these findings, DxL and pVx- are success factors for snatch, whereas Dy1 is not. It is suggested that avoiding excessive backward-leaning of the body in the turnover phase may vary the chances of successful snatch among elite male weightlifters.		[Nagao, Hideyuki] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Huang, Zhong] Sports Okinawa, Uruma, Okinawa, Japan; [Kubo, Yasuyuki] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Nagao, Hideyuki] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sport Res, Tokyo, Japan								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000557602900001	20	Article; Article		
J	Edwards, Toby; Piggott, Benjamin; Banyard, Harry G.; Haff, G. Gregory; Joyce, Christopher								Sprint acceleration characteristics across the Australian football participation pathway								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	9			1168	1180		10.1080/14763141.2020.1790641			SEP 2 2023	2023	The aim of this study was to compare the force, velocity and power profiles of a maximal sprint acceleration through different competition levels of the Australian Football (AF) participation pathway. One hundred and sixty-two junior AF athletes across five competition levels including State under 18's (ST 18), State under 16's (ST 16), local under 18's (LOC 18), local under 15's (LOC 15), and local under 14's (LOC 14) participated in this cross-sectional study. Velocity-time data from maximal sprint accelerations were analysed to derive athlete's sprint acceleration characteristics and split times. ST 18 showed a more force-orientated profile than the LOC 18 with moderate differences in relative theoretical maximal force (F-0) (7.54%), absolute F-0(10.51%), and slope of the force-velocity relationship (Sf-v) (9.27%). Similarly, small differences were found between ST 18 and ST 16 in relative F-0(4.79%) and Sf-v(6.28%). Moderate toextremely large differences were observed between players competing in older (ST 18, LOC 18, ST 16) compared to younger (LOC 15, LOC 14) competition levels highlighting the potential influence of biological maturation. It is recommended that practitioners working with junior AF players to consider developing a force-orientated sprint acceleration profile to improve sprinting performance.		[Edwards, Toby; Piggott, Benjamin; Joyce, Christopher] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Banyard, Harry G.] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Hlth & Med Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res, Perth, WA, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Australian Ctr Res Injury Sport & Its Prevent ACR, Joondalup, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Psychol & Sport, Salford, Lancs, England; [Edwards, Toby] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Fremantle, WA, Australia								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000556054200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Hoelbling, Dominik; Baca, Arnold; Dabnichki, Peter								A kinematic model for assessment of hip joint range-of-motion in fast sport movements using spreading angles								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	10			1243	1255		10.1080/14763141.2020.1795237			OCT 3 2023	2023	The work investigates the relationship between the leg spread and hip joint flexibility during kicking action of highly skilled martial artists. Vector-based spreading angles (VSAs), as a simplified way to assess kick execution patterns and movement ranges, are proposed. The first VSA measures the angle between the two femur vectors (i.e., upper leg spread), whereas the second describes the full-leg spread. The proposed measures were applied to 3D motion analysis performed on 33 participants at various skill levels who executed double side kicks and performed two static flexibility tests (hip joint flexion and abduction). Statistical analysis showed that the proposed parameters differentiate between skill levels. Both VSAs and VSA rate of change showed high Pearson correlation to the quality of execution (the average of 10 subjective kickboxing experts' evaluation scores) at critical instants of the kick execution , i.e., during the first leg elevation and kick (angles: rho > 0.8; p < 0.001). In addition, they significantly correlated to maximum static hip abduction at any instant (rho = 0.37-0.69; p < 0.05). The work established that both static and dynamic joint flexibility contribute to high-performance levels and could be used for initial selection and assessment of training effectiveness.		[Hoelbling, Dominik; Baca, Arnold] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Vienna, Austria; [Hoelbling, Dominik; Dabnichki, Peter] RMIT Univ, Sch Engn, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Dabnichki, Peter] RMIT Univ, Sch Engn, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000556060200001	22	Article; Article		
J	Kawai, Eisuke; Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Sakaue, Hiroyuki; Takagi, Hideki								Propulsive forces on water polo players' feet from eggbeater kicking estimated by pressure distribution analysis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	10			1319	1333		10.1080/14763141.2020.1797152			OCT 3 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to characterise the unsteady propulsive force during eggbeater kicking by a fluid force estimation method based on pressure distribution analysis. The eggbeater kick was performed by six male water polo players. The participants' eggbeater kicking motions were recorded by three cameras, and the kinematic foot variables were analysed. The pressure distributions around the foot were measured by four pairs of pressure sensors attached to the dorsal and plantar surfaces of the participants' right foot. The resultant fluid force acting on the foot was estimated from the measured pressure and area of the foot. The calculated propulsive force increased with the pressure difference between the plantar and dorsal sides of the foot, which was mainly related to the decrease in pressure on the dorsal side, and peaked when the foot passed its maximum velocity and began to decelerate. These results cannot be elucidated only by conventional biomechanical theories of swimming propulsion (Newton's laws of motion and the quasi-steady approach) but instead indicate a high possibility that the exerted propulsive force is induced by the effects of unsteady water flow.		[Kawai, Eisuke] Int Budo Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Katsuura, Chiba, Japan; [Tsunokawa, Takaaki; Sakaue, Hiroyuki; Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Kawai, Eisuke] Int Budo Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Katsuura, Chiba, Japan								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000555230800001	35	Article; Article		
J	Bowers, Lucy C.; Gribble, Phillip A.; Hoch, Matthew C.; Villasante Tezanos, Alejandro G.; Kosik, Kyle B.								Physical therapy referral and medication for ankle sprain visits to physician offices: an analysis of the national ambulatory medical care survey								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			176	181		10.1080/00913847.2020.1800369			APR 3 2021	2021	Objectives Supervised physical therapy is the recommended care for an ankle sprain. Yet, recent evidence indicates some ankle sprain patients may not receive the recommended care, and instead, prescribed medication to alleviate symptoms. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to describe the percentage of patients reporting to an office-based physician in the U.S. that were or were not referred to physical therapy. Secondly, to describe the percentage of ankle sprain patients with or without medication administered, supplied or ordered. Methods This was a secondary analysis of the cross-sectional National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS) from 2007 to 2016. The NAMCS is a multi-stage probability sample survey of visits to office-based physicians. The percentage and associated 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated for visits that had a physical therapy referral or a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), opioid and non-opioid analgesics administered, supplied or ordered. Sampled data were weighted to produce national-level estimates. Results A physical therapy referral was given for 16.8% (95% CI: 13.2, 21.2) of ankle sprain visits. Approximately 34.5% (95%CI: 30.5, 38.7) of all ankle sprain visits had a medication administered, supplied or ordered. NSAIDs (72.1%; 95% CI: 66.9,76.8) and opioids (21.0%; 95% CI: 16.3, 26.5) were the two most common types of medication. Conclusions NSAIDs and opioid medication combined were administered, supplied or ordered more frequently than a referral to physical therapy. These findings provide evidence that suggests many ankle sprain patients reporting to an office-based physician are not receiving the recommended care; physical therapy. Rather, medication appears to be the primary type of care provided to patients. These data are important because it gives a focused area to improve the treatment of an ankle sprain by developing strategies that ensure all patients are provided the recommended care from the onset of entering the healthcare system.		[Bowers, Lucy C.; Gribble, Phillip A.; Hoch, Matthew C.; Kosik, Kyle B.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Athlet Training & Clin Nutr, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Villasante Tezanos, Alejandro G.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Stat, Lexington, KY USA; [Kosik, Kyle B.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Athlet Training & Clin Nutr, Lexington, KY 40536 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000556467300001	31	Article; Article		
J	Sarvestan, Javad; Svoboda, Zdenek; Baeyens, Jean-Pierre; Ben Serrien								Whole body coordination patterning in volleyball spikes under various task constraints: exploratory cluster analysis based on self-organising maps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	9			1153	1167		10.1080/14763141.2020.1788132			SEP 2 2023	2023	Task and environment-related constraints can influence spike performance in volleyball players. This study was designated to investigate the impact of awareness of the presence or absence of a defensive block by the opponents on the performance and coordination pattern of spikes in elite volleyball attackers. Simulating a real-game scenario, 10 elite youth attackers (aged 15.5 +/- 0.7 years) executed six spikes each with prior notification about the presence/absence of defences and six spikes without any notification. In each condition, they were blocked by two opponents in three trials. The coordination patterning of the attackers was explored using cluster analysis based on a Self-Organising Map (SOM). The SOMs and the cluster analysis showed that the coordination pattern of the spike execution was very individual-specific; however, in the third layer of the cluster analysis, it was revealed that the movement pattern of spike execution had similarities in the scenario wherein the players had prior awareness of the defences. Providing the attackers with information on the opponents' condition or performance could shift the attackers' focus from a game-oriented condition to the rivals' behaviour, which consequently resulted in deterioration of their spike performance.		[Sarvestan, Javad; Svoboda, Zdenek] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Fac Phys Culture, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Baeyens, Jean-Pierre; Ben Serrien] Free Univ Brussels, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Expt Anat Res Grp, Brussels, Belgium; [Baeyens, Jean-Pierre] Univ Antwerp, Fac Appl Engn, Dept Elect, Antwerp, Belgium; [Baeyens, Jean-Pierre] Thim Van Der Laan Univ Coll Physiotherapy, Landquart, Switzerland; [Sarvestan, Javad] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Fac Phys Culture, Olomouc, Czech Republic								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000555165200001	42	Article; Article		
J	Lu, Huei-Fu; Lin, Huei-Wen								Does the legacy governance of major sporting events affect urban development? The stakeholder's perspectives on the Taipei 2017 Universiade								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	1			87	106		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2020-0022			MAR 29 2021	2021	Purpose Major sporting events (MSEs) have always contributed to sustainable change. Many owners and organizers of MSEs have gradually institutionalized the governance of sporting events legacies. International sports organizations and past studies currently have a vision for sporting event legacies. However, a specific legacy governance system has not been developed. Thus, this study explores stakeholder's perspectives of post-event effects and the legacy governance strategies for Taipei 2017 Universiade (TU). Design/methodology/approach The representatives of the various stakeholders of the TU are selected and an in-depth interview approach employed. Archival material, including official organizing documents and information from the TU website, is used to increases the reliability of the results. Findings The benefits of MSEs are not always long-lasting. The TU has created a significant breakthrough for Taipei City, and its successful hosting has raised the image of the city and strengthened its infrastructure and national identity. Thus, the TU must leave sustainable legacies to benefit society and urban development. Research limitations/implications Although the study has revealed diverse perspectives from the representatives of stakeholder groups and highlighted the uniqueness and future directions of legacy governance that the TU has produced and learned, the findings may not be fully applicable or replicated in other cities or small countries, especially given Taiwan's international political status. For further study, a systematic model can be constructed to more accurately analyze the interconnected relationship to determine the extent to which various MSE legacies are regarded as "successful" governance, and other significant aspects should be incorporated into the model as a basis for comparing traditional legacy assessment. Practical implications This study developed a theoretical account of legacies and their relevance to MSEs, thus emphasizing that, in addition to "hard legacies" (concrete infrastructure or athletes' village), hosting the TU has established "soft legacies" (memories enshrined in the public's consciousness). Regarding the Taipei city government, the sustainable strategies of legacy governance after learning from the hosting experience are probably more complex. Nonetheless, hosting MSEs has been regarded as a crucial medium for urban development across the globe. It would be helpful to further this line of inquiry via the TU stakeholder perspectives regarding legacy governance concerns. Originality/value The study contributes to the literature by proposing feasible directions of legacy governance for a host city. As Taiwanese are concerned, the political legacy has the most profound influence among all types of the legacies generated by the TU. The followed is the infrastructure legacy, which can be utilized as the core of the sustainable development strategies of the legacy governance, thereby expanding the post-event governance of various legacies.		[Lu, Huei-Fu] Aletheia Univ, Dept Sport Management, New Taipei, Taiwan; [Lin, Huei-Wen] Aletheia Univ, Dept Finance & Banking, New Taipei, Taiwan; [Lu, Huei-Fu] Aletheia Univ, Dept Sport Management, New Taipei, Taiwan								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000557251700001	108	Article; Article		
J	Komissarov, Serguei S.								Balanced carving turns in alpine skiing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	9			1209	1242		10.1080/14763141.2020.1795236			SEP 2 2023	2023	In this paper, we analyse the model of pure carving turns in alpine skiing and snowboarding based on the usual assumption of approximate balance between forces and torques acting on the skier during the turn. The approximation of torque balance yields both lower and upper limits on the skier speed, which depend only on the sidecut radius of skis and the slope gradient. We use the model to simulate carving runs on slopes of constant gradient and find that pure carving is possible only on slopes of relatively small gradient, with the critical slope angle in the range of 8 degrees - 20 degrees. The exact value depends mostly on the coefficient of snow friction and to a lesser degree on the sidecut radius of skis. Comparison with the practice of ski racing shows that the upper speed limit and the related upper limit on the slope gradient set by the model are too restrictive and so must be the assumption of torque balance used in the model. A more advanced theory is needed.		[Komissarov, Serguei S.] Univ Leeds, Dept Appl Math, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Komissarov, Serguei S.] Univ Leeds, Dept Appl Math, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000555175800001	28	Article; Article		
J	Duan, Yanling; Liu, Bing; He, Yan								Study on relationships among sports spectator motivations, satisfaction and behavioral intention: empirical evidence from Chinese marathon								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	3			409	425		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2018-0034			AUG 3 2020	2020	Purpose The paper aims to examine the relationships among marathon spectator motivation, satisfaction and behavioral intention in China. Design/methodology/approach Date were collected from three Chinese marathon races. The paper presents the conceptual model of the study and adopted a mixed method to identify the motivations of marathon spectators; structural equation modeling (SEM) was used to test the measurement and substantive models; regression analysis was used to detect the specific effects of the various spectator motivations on spectator satisfaction and behavioral intention. Findings The paper provides empirical evidences about how marathon spectator motivation affects the behavioral intention. The research results from a path analysis of the spectator motivation-satisfaction-behavioral intention model show that: spectator motivation has significant positive effects on behavioral intention, the indirect path dominates the total effect of motivation on behavioral intention via satisfaction as a mediating variable; satisfaction is positively associated with behavioral intention, and it plays mediate role between spectator motivation and behavioral intention. The result of regression analysis indicates that various spectator motivations have different influences on the satisfaction and behavioral intention, motives of excitement and diversion have significant effect on satisfaction and behavioral intention, but socialization motive is not significantly associated with the satisfaction and behavioral intention. Originality/value This paper first fulfills an identified need to explore mass sports event spectator motivations and its influential mechanism on behavioral intention among Chinese marathon races by survey. It contributes greatly to the literature of mass sports spectator motivation and consumption theory, provides important managerial implications for Chinese sports organizations as to how to improve spectator orientation degree.		[Duan, Yanling; Liu, Bing] Shanghai Univ Sport, Econ & Management Sch, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [He, Yan] Jinling Inst Technol, Sch Business, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Liu, Bing] Shanghai Univ Sport, Econ & Management Sch, Shanghai, Peoples R China								44							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000554856100001	85	Article; Article		
J	Sabido, Rafael; Luis Hernandez-Davo, Jose; Garcia-Valverde, Adrian; Marco, Pablo; Asencio, Pablo								Influence of the Strap Rewind Height During a Conical Pulley Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			109	118		10.2478/hukin-2020-0018			AUG 2020	2020	The use of flywheel devices has increased in popularity within resistance training programs. However, little is known about modifiable variables which may affect power output responses, as the rope length and the height level used in a conical pulley device. The aim of this study was to assess the influence of using three different rope lengths (1.5, 2.5 and 3.5 meters) and four different height levels (L1, L2, L3 and L4) on concentric peak power (PPconc), eccentric peak power (PPecc) and eccentric overload (eccentric/concentric PP ratio; EO) during conical pulley exercises (i.e. seated and stand-up row). A total of 29 recreationally trained subjects (25.3 +/- 7.1 years; 1.74 +/- 0.06 m; 72.5 +/- 8.3 kg) took part in the study. Testing sessions consisted of 1 set of 10 repetitions under each condition; experiment 1: seated row exercise using the three different rope lengths; experiment 2: stand-up row exercise using four different height levels of the conical pulley. Results from experiment 1 did not show differences between rope lengths, although a trend for greater PPecc (ES=0.36-0.38) and EO (ES=0.40-0.41) was found when using longer rope lengths (2.5 and 3.5). Experiment 2 showed significant increases in both PPconc and PPecc as the height level used was closer to the cone base (L4). In contrast, EO values were significantly greater when using upper height levels (L1). These results suggest that the height level used during conical pulley exercises highly influences power output responses. Therefore, this variable should be carefully managed depending on the training goal (e.g. power vs hypertrophy).		[Sabido, Rafael; Marco, Pablo; Asencio, Pablo] Miguel Hermindez Univ, Sport Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Elche, Spain; [Luis Hernandez-Davo, Jose] Isabel I Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Garcia-Valverde, Adrian] Univ Almeria, Almeria, Spain; [Luis Hernandez-Davo, Jose] Isabel I Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400010	33	Article; Article		
J	Lehnert, Michal; Croix, Mark De Ste; Svoboda, Zdenek; Elfmark, Milan; Sikora, Ondrej; Stastny, Petr								Gender and Age Related Differences in Leg Stiffness and Reactive Strength in Adolescent Team Sports Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			119	129		10.2478/hukin-2020-0020			AUG 2020	2020	The aim of the present study was to identify potential gender differences in leg stiffness and reactive strength during hopping tasks in 13 to16-year old team sports players. Reactive strength index (RSI) and leg stiffness were obtained in two consecutive seasons from 51 girls (U14: n = 31, U16: n = 20) and 65 boys (U14: n = 32, U16: n = 33). A significant main effect on absolute (U14: p = 0.022, eta(2) = 0.084; U16: p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.224) and relative leg stiffness (U14 p<0.001; eta(2) = 0.195; U16; p = 0.008, eta(2) = 0.128) for gender was found in both groups with values higher in boys than in girls. For absolute and relative stiffness gender differences in the U14 group were significant in the 1st year only (p=0.027 and p=0.001), and for the U16s in the 2nd year only (p < 0.001 and p = 0.022). For RSI, a significant main effect for gender was observed in the U16 group only (p < 0.001 eta(2)= 0.429) with values significantly higher in boys than in girls in both years of measurement (p = 0.001; p < 0.001). Results of this study support previous limited findings, mostly related to non-athletes, suggesting lower stretch-shortening cycle capability in adolescence female compared to male, however our data only partly supports the theory that quality of neuromuscular functions increases with age until post puberty.		[Lehnert, Michal; Svoboda, Zdenek; Elfmark, Milan; Sikora, Ondrej] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Croix, Mark De Ste] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400011	43	Article; Article		
J	van den Tillaar, Roland; Helms, Eric								Comparison of Muscle Activation and Kinematics in 6-RM Squatting With Low and High Barbell Placement								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			131	142		10.2478/hukin-2020-0021			AUG 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to compare 6-KM muscle activation and kinematics in back squats with low and high barbell placements. Twelve resistance-trained males (23.5 +/- 2.6 years, 86.8 +/- 21.3 kg, 1.81 +/- 0.08 m) with a minimum of 2 years of squatting experience performed a 6-RM using high and low barbell placements while muscle activation of eight muscles and joint kinematics were measured. During high barbell placement squats, lifting time was longer, with lower average velocity than low barbell placement. This was accompanied by a lesser knee flexion angle at the lowest point of the squat, and larger hip flexion angles during high, compared to low barbell squats. Furthermore, peak angular ankle, knee and hip velocities in the descending phase developed differently between conditions. No significant differences in muscle activation were found between conditions. Thus, our data suggests gross muscular adaptations between barbell placements may be similar over time, and therefore, from a muscular development standpoint, both squat styles are valid. Furthermore, unlike the low barbell placement, fatigue may manifest earlier itself in the high barbell squats during 6-RMs as sets progress toward a lifter's maximal capacity, altering kinematics, especially in the last repetition.		[van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Odins Veg 23, N-7603 Levanger, Norway; [van den Tillaar, Roland; Helms, Eric] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [van den Tillaar, Roland] Nord Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Odins Veg 23, N-7603 Levanger, Norway								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400012	23	Article; Article		
J	Grgic, Jozo								The Effects of Low-Load vs. High-Load Resistance Training on Muscle Fiber Hypertrophy: A Meta-Analysis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			51	58		10.2478/hukin-2020-0013			AUG 2020	2020	The aim of this meta-analysis was to explore the effects of low-load vs. high-load resistance training on type I and type II muscle fiber hypertrophy. Searches for studies were performed through ten databases. Studies were included if they: (a) compared the effects of low-load vs. high-load resistance training (performed to momentary muscular failure); and, (b) assessed muscle fiber hypertrophy. A random-effects meta-analysis was performed to analyze the data. Ten study groups were included in the analysis. In the meta-analysis for the effects of low-load vs. high-load resistance training on type I muscle fiber hypertrophy, there was no significant difference between the training conditions (standardized mean difference: 0.28; 95% confidence interval: -0.27, 0.82; p = 0.3/6; I-2 = 18%; 95% prediction interval: -0.71, 1.28). In the meta-analysis for the effects of low-load vs. high-load resistance training on type II muscle fiber hypertrophy, there was no significant difference between the training conditions (standardized mean difference: 0.30; 95% confidence interval: -0.05, 0.66; p = 0.089; I-2 = 0%; 95% prediction interval: -0.28, 0.88). In this meta-analysis, there were no significant differences between low-load and high-load resistance training on hypertrophy of type I or type II muscle fibers. The 95% confidence and prediction intervals were very wide, suggesting that the true effect in the population and the effect reported in a future study conducted on this topic could be in different directions and anywhere from trivial to very large. Therefore, there is a clear need for future research on this topic.		[Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHES, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHES, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400005	25	Article; Article		
J	Maciejewska-Skrendo, Agnieszka; Leznicka, Katarzyna; Leonska-Duniec, Agata; Wilk, Michal; Filip, Aleksandra; Cieszczyk, Pawel; Sawczuk, Marek								Genetics of Muscle Stiffness, Muscle Elasticity and Explosive Strength								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			143	159		10.2478/hukin-2020-0027			AUG 2020	2020	Muscle stiffness, muscle elasticity and explosive strength are the main components of athletes' performance and they show a sex-based as well as ethnicity variation. Muscle stiffness is thought to be one of the risk factors associated with sports injuries and is less common in females than in males. These observations may be explained by circulating levels of sex hormones and their specific receptors. It has been shown that higher levels of estrogen are associated with lower muscle stiffness responsible for suppression of collagen synthesis. It is thought that these properties, at least in part, depend on genetic factors. Particularly, the gene encoding estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) is one of the candidates that may be associated with muscle stiffness. Muscle elasticity increases with aging and there is evidence suggesting that titin (encoded by the TTN gene), a protein that is expressed in cardiac and skeletal muscles, is one of the factors responsible for elastic properties of the muscles. Mutations in the TTN gene result in some types of muscular dystrophy or cardiomyopathy. In this context, TTN may be regarded as a promising candidate for studying the elastic properties of muscles in athletes. The physiological background of explosive strength depends not only on the muscle architecture and muscle fiber composition, but also on the central nervous system and functionality of neuromuscular units. These properties are, at least partly, genetically determined. In this context, the ACTN3 gene code for a-actinin 3 has been widely researched.		[Maciejewska-Skrendo, Agnieszka; Leznicka, Katarzyna; Leonska-Duniec, Agata; Cieszczyk, Pawel; Sawczuk, Marek] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Hlth & Nat Sci, Unit Mol Biol, Kazimierza Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Maciejewska-Skrendo, Agnieszka; Sawczuk, Marek] Univ Szczecin, Inst Phys Culture Sci, Szczecin, Poland; [Wilk, Michal; Filip, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Leznicka, Katarzyna] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Hlth & Nat Sci, Unit Mol Biol, Kazimierza Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland								30							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400013	133	Article; Article		
J	Grigoletto, Davide; Marcolin, Giuseppe; Borgatti, Elena; Zonin, Fabio; Steele, James; Gentil, Paulo; Galvao, Luan; Paoli, Antonio								Kettlebell Training for Female Ballet Dancers: Effects on Lower Limb Power and Body Balance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			15	22		10.2478/hukin-2020-0010			AUG 2020	2020	The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of 5 month kettlebell-based training on jumping performance, balance, blood pressure and heart rate in female classical ballet dancers. It was a clinical trial study with 23 female dancers (age = 21.74 +/- 3.1 years; body height = 168.22 +/- 5.12 cm; body mass = 53.69 +/- 5.91 kg) took part in the study. Participants were divided into two groups: a kettlebell group (n = 13), that followed a commercial kettlebell training protocol named the "Simple & Sinister protocol", and a traditional dance training control group (n = 10). In the kettlebell group, kettlebell training completely replaced the jump and balance section of dance classes. Both groups performed balance and jumping tests before and after the training period. Blood pressure and the heart rate were also measured. The kettlebell group showed significant improvements in the balance tests (antero-posterior and medio-lateral oscillation) with both legs and eyes open as well as in all types of jump exercises (unrotated: +39.13%, p < 0.005; with a turnout: +53.15%, p < 0.005), while maximum and minimum blood pressure and the heart rate decreased significantly (max: -7.90%, p < 0.05; min: -9.86%, p < 0.05; Heart rate: -17.07%, p < 0.01). The results for the control group were non-significant for any variable. Comparison between groups showed significant differences for all variables analyzed, with greater improvements for the kettlebell group. Our results suggest that specific kettlebell training could be effective in improving jump performance and balance in classical dancers to a significantly greater degree compared to classical dance training.		[Grigoletto, Davide; Marcolin, Giuseppe; Paoli, Antonio] Univ Padua, Dept Biomed Sci, Padua, Italy; [Borgatti, Elena] Univ Padua, Padua, Italy; [Zonin, Fabio] StrongFirst Italy, Arcugnano, VI, Italy; [Steele, James] Southampton Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Social, Southampton, Hants, England; [Gentil, Paulo; Galvao, Luan] Univ Fed Goias, Fac Educ Fis & Danca, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Paoli, Antonio] Univ Padua, Dept Biomed Sci, Padua, Italy								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400002	31	Article; Article		
J	Sadowski, Jerzy; Mastalerz, Andrzej; Gromisz, Wilhelm								Transfer of Dry-Land Resistance Training Modalities to Swimming Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			195	203		10.2478/hukin-2020-0025			AUG 2020	2020	A great number of studies focusing on the effects of dry-land resistance training interventions on swimming performance remain inconclusive. It is suggested that transferability of dry-land strength gains to swimming performance appear when dry-land resistance training programs are swim-specific. The main aim of this study was to compare the effects of specific dry-land resistance training on an ergometer with traditional dry-land exercises, and to determine how much of the resistance training effects were transferred to specific swimming conditions. The study included a group of 26 youth competitive male swimmers (age 15.7 +/- 0.5 years, height 174.6 +/- 6.6 cm, weight 68.4 +/- 8.2 kg, training experience 5.8 +/- 0.7 years) of regional level. They were randomly allocated to one of two groups: experimental (E) and control (T). Both groups were involved in a 12-week dry-land resistance training concentrated on increasing muscular strength and power output of the upper limbs. Group E used a specialized ergometer (JBA - Zbigniew Staniak), while group T performed traditional resistance exercises. The program consisted of 10 sets of 30 s of exercise with 30 s rest intervals between each set. A two-way repeated measures ANOVA with Tukey HSD post hoc comparisons was used to determine if any significant differences existed between training groups across pretest and posttest conditions. The significance level was set at p 0.05. Dry-land resistance training modalities were the only differences in training between both groups. Our findings show that rates of transfer are much higher in group E than in group T, which resulted in a significant increase in swimming velocity (by 4.32%, p<0.001; ES=1.23, and 2.78%, p<0.003, ES=0.31, respectively).		[Sadowski, Jerzy; Gromisz, Wilhelm] Jozef Pilsudski Acad Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ & Hlth, 34 Marymoncka St, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland; [Mastalerz, Andrzej] Jozef Pilsudski Acad Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ, Warsaw, Poland; [Sadowski, Jerzy] Jozef Pilsudski Acad Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Phys Educ & Hlth, 34 Marymoncka St, PL-00968 Warsaw, Poland								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400017	34	Article; Article		
J	Lodo, Leandro; Moreira, Alexandre; Bacurau, Reury Frank P.; Capitani, Carol D.; Barbosa, Wesley P.; Massa, Marcelo; Schoenfeld, Brad J.; Aoki, Marcelo S.								Resistance Exercise Intensity Does Not Influence Neurotrophic Factors Response in Equated Volume Schemes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			227	236		10.2478/hukin-2020-0030			AUG 2020	2020	The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of 2 different intensities of resistance training (RT) bouts, performed with the equated total load lifted (TLL), on the acute responses of neurotrophic factors (NFs) (brainderived neurotrophic factor [BDNF]; and nerve growth factor [NGF]), as well as on metabolic (lactate concentration) and hormonal (salivary cortisol concentration) responses. Thirty participants (males, 22.8 +/- 2.3 years old, 177 +/- 6.8 cm, 75.5 +/- 7.9 kg, n = 15; and females, 22.2 +/- 1.7 years, 163.7 +/- 6.5 cm, 57 +/- 7.6 kg, n = 15) performed 2 separate acute RT bouts with one week between trials. One bout consisted of 4 sets of 5 submaximal repetitions at 70% of /RM and the other of 4 sets of 10 submaximal repetitions at 35% of /RM for each exercise. Both RT bouts were conducted using the bench press and squat exercises. The TLL in each bout (determined by sets x repetitions x load [kg]) was equated. Serum BDNF, serum NGF, salivary cortisol, and blood lactate concentration were determined pre- and post-RT. No significant pre- to post-exercise increase in neurotrophic factors (p > 0.05; BDNF; effect size = 0.46 and NGF; effect size = 0.48) was observed for either of the RT bouts. A similar increase in blood lactate concentration was observed pre- to post-exercise for both RT bouts (p < 0.05). Cortisol increased similarly for both RT bouts, when compared to the resting day condition (p < 0.05). In conclusion, the results suggest that, despite differences in RT schemes, a similar acute neurotrophic, metabolic and hormonal response was observed when the TLL is equated.		[Lodo, Leandro; Bacurau, Reury Frank P.; Barbosa, Wesley P.; Massa, Marcelo; Aoki, Marcelo S.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lodo, Leandro; Moreira, Alexandre] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Capitani, Carol D.] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Appl Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY Lehman Coll, Bronx, NY USA; [Aoki, Marcelo S.] Univ Sao Paulo, Av Arlindo Bettio 1000, BR-03828000 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400020	31	Article; Article		
J	Drouzas, Vasileios; Katsikas, Christos; Zafeiridis, Andreas; Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.; Bogdanis, Gregory C.								Unilateral Plyometric Training is Superior to Volume-Matched Bilateral Training for Improving Strength, Speed and Power of Lower Limbs in Preadolescent Soccer Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			161	176		10.2478/hukin-2020-0022			AUG 2020	2020	This study compared the effects of unilateral and bilateral plyometric training on strength, sprint performance and lower limb power. Sixty-eight preadolescent soccer athletes were randomly assigned to a unilateral plyometric training group (n=23), a bilateral plyometric training group (n=23) and a control group (n=22). Both plyometric training groups trained with equal volumes of unilateral or bilateral exercises for 15 minutes in each session, at which time the control group performed soccer-specific drills. Plyometric exercises were executed twice weekly for 10 weeks during the competitive season. The following tests were performed before and after the intervention: single-leg and double-leg countermovement jump, squat jump, horizontal jumps in different directions, maximal isometric strength of quadriceps and hamstrings, sprint performance, agility and balance. Unilateral plyometric training resulted in greater improvements compared to the control group in the following variables: hamstrings strength (ES: 0.91, p=0.037), 5m sprint time (ES: 0.93, p=0.004), single-leg countermovement jump (ES: 0.90, p=0.006), single- and double-leg squat jump (ES: 0.87, p=0.030 and ES: 0.73, p=0.067, respectively) and single-leg hop performance (ES: 1.01, p=0.004). The only tests where there was an improvement of BPT compared with the CG were the single-leg and double leg SJ (ES: 0.76, p=0.026; ES: 0.70, p=0.050). Quadriceps strength, side hop test, double-leg horizontal jump test, flamingo balance test and modified agility T-test were equally improved in all three groups (p<0.001). In conclusion, unilateral lower-limb plyometric training is more effective in increasing muscle strength and power in preadolescent soccer players when compared to bilateral training or soccer training alone.		[Drouzas, Vasileios; Katsikas, Christos; Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece; [Zafeiridis, Andreas] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Serres, Greece; [Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.] Univ Thessaly, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Trikala, Greece; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Fac PE & Sports Sci, 41 Ethnikis Antistasis St, Athens 17237, Greece								40							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400014	39	Article; Article		
J	Marques, Mario C.; Manuel Yanez-Garcia, Juan; Marinho, Daniel A.; Jose Gonzalez-Badillo, Juan; Rodriguez-Rosell, David								In-Season Strength Training in Elite Junior Swimmers: The Role of the Low-Volume, High-Velocity Training on Swimming Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				74	1			71	84		10.2478/hukin-2020-0015			AUG 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to analyze the effect of long-term combined strength training (ST) and plyometrics on strength, power and swimming performances in elite junior swimmers during a competitive season. Ten elite junior swimmers (5 women and 5 men) completed the study (age: 16.6 +/- 0.7 years; mass: 62.2 +/- 5.4 kg; stature: 1.70 +/- 0.07 m). The participants trained twice a week during 20 weeks. The ST program consisted of upper- and lower limbs exercises with low loads and low volume, lifting the load at maximal intended velocity. The effect of the training protocol was assessed using the 1RM in the full squat (SQ) and bench press (BP), jump height (CMJ), the maximal number of repetitions completed in the pull-up (PU) exercise and time during 50-m freestyle. Training program resulted in significant improvements in CMJ (12.1%, ES: 0.57), maximal dynamic strength in the SQ (16.4%, ES: 0.46) and BP (12.1%, ES: 0.34) exercises, the maximum number of repetitions completed during the PU test (90.7%, ES: 0.57) and swimming performance (-3.9%, ES: 0.45). There were no significant differences between both genders. The relative changes in swimming performance showed significant relationship with the relative changes in 1RM of SQ for pooled data (r=-0.66, p<0.05) and the relative changes in the PU exercise in female swimmers (r=-0.99, p<0.05). Therefore, coaches and strength and conditioning professionals should consider including in-season dry-land ST programs within the training routine in order to obtain further improvements in swimming performance.		[Marques, Mario C.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, UBI, Covilha, Portugal; [Marques, Mario C.; Marinho, Daniel A.] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Manuel Yanez-Garcia, Juan; Jose Gonzalez-Badillo, Juan; Rodriguez-Rosell, David] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Rodriguez-Rosell, David] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Dept Sport & Informat, Seville, Spain; [Rodriguez-Rosell, David] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000590446400007	48	Article; Article		
J	Goldstein, Erica R.; Fukuda, David H.								Connecting Energy Availability and Iron Deficiency with Bone Health: Implications for the Female Athlete								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	4			2	11		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000474			AUG 2020	2020	An inability to meet the energy demands of sport and support physiological functioning can be the result of chronic energy deficiency. Resting energy expenditure, endocrine disruption, menstrual disturbances, and poor bone health are outcomes of low energy availability (LEA). Iron deficiency (ID) can be an outcome of inadequate intake as well as hepcidin activity and its role in the development of exercise-associated ID and anemia. The purpose of this article is to discuss the effects of ID and anemia in combination with LEA and the implications for a female athlete's bone health.		[Goldstein, Erica R.; Fukuda, David H.] Univ Cent Florida, Div Kinesiol, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Goldstein, Erica R.] Univ Cent Florida, Div Kinesiol, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000559343100002	90	Article; Article		
J	Duggan, John David; Moody, Jeremy; Byrne, Paul J.; Ryan, Lisa								Strength and Conditioning Recommendations for Female GAA Athletes: The Camogie Player								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	4			105	124		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000577			AUG 2020	2020	Camogie (kuh center dot mow center dot gee) is a traditional, amateur Gaelic sport played by female athletes. This invasion-based field sport involves high-intensity intermittent physical demands. There is currently a dearth of available research in intercounty despite the prevalence of research in the male version of the game (hurling). The aims of this article are to provide strength and conditioning recommendations for the sport of camogie, specifically at intercounty level. These recommendations include considerations working with intercounty female camogie athletes, specific camogie injury epidemiology, physiological demands, and practical strength and conditioning for implementation by practitioners. Moreover, a sport-specific testing battery; development of physical attributes to enhance match-play performance; a proposed annual periodization cycle; and sample strength, speed and agility programs will be discussed.		[Duggan, John David; Ryan, Lisa] Galway Mayo Inst Technol, Dept Nat Sci, Galway, Ireland; [Duggan, John David; Moody, Jeremy; Byrne, Paul J.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci Sport, Cardiff, Wales; [Byrne, Paul J.] Inst Technol Carlow, Dept Sci & Hlth, Carlow, Ireland; [Duggan, John David] Galway Mayo Inst Technol, Dept Nat Sci, Galway, Ireland; [Duggan, John David] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci Sport, Cardiff, Wales								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000559343100012	188	Article; Article		
J	Wise, Stephanie L.; Binkley, Jean L.; Binkley, Helen M.								Pregnancy and Postpartum Training: Coaching Considerations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	4			93	104		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000557			AUG 2020	2020	Exercise is beneficial for women to continue during pregnancy and the postpartum period. However, many women do not meet the minimum guidelines set forth by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Strength and conditioning coaches and personal trainers working specifically with athletes and nonathletes during childbearing years should continue to encourage their clientele to exercise. Educating them on altering their current exercise program and adapting it as they progress through their pregnancy into the postpartum period is important. General recommendations for exercise and certain modifications may be needed as many physical and physiological adaptations occur within the body during this time.		[Wise, Stephanie L.; Binkley, Jean L.] Middle Tennessee State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Murfreesboro, TN 37130 USA; [Binkley, Helen M.] New Hope Family Med, Delaware, OH USA; [Binkley, Helen M.] New Hope Family Med, Delaware, OH USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000559343100011	51	Article; Article		
J	Shurley, Jason; Felkar, Victoria; Greviskes, Lindsey; Todd, Jan								Historical and Social Considerations of Strength Training for Female Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	4			22	35		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000478			AUG 2020	2020	Female athletes may be hesitant to fully engage in the weight room. Common concerns include violating social norms through their muscularity, or a lack of competence in strength training. These concerns are rooted in historical efforts to constrain the intensity of female competition and traditional societal assumptions about the attributes of femininity. This work seeks to help strength coaches understand the historical and social background of female concerns about strength training and provides a psychological framework that may be useful in helping female athletes overcome their trepidation about the weight room.		[Shurley, Jason; Greviskes, Lindsey] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Hlth Phys Educ Recreat & Coaching, Whitewater, WI 53190 USA; [Felkar, Victoria] Univ British Columbia, Sch Kinesiol, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Todd, Jan] Univ Texas Austin, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Educ, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Shurley, Jason] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Hlth Phys Educ Recreat & Coaching, Whitewater, WI 53190 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000559343100004	83	Article; Article		
J	Black, Katherine E.; Baker, Dane F.; Sims, Stacy T.								Nutritional Needs of the Female Athlete: Risk and Prevention of Low Energy Availability								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	4			77	81		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000464			AUG 2020	2020	To date, most of the research surrounding low energy availability (LEA) and female athletes has focused on the high prevalence rates (2-77%). Despite the severe negative health and performance consequences, awareness of this issue is low. There are potentially a multitude of factors that contribute to the development of LEA across the menstrual cycle and training phases. This review highlights these influences and provides practical tips for those working with female athletes.		[Black, Katherine E.] Univ Otago, Dept Human Nutr, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Baker, Dane F.] High Performance Sport New Zealand, Natl Training Ctr, Auckland, New Zealand; [Sims, Stacy T.] Univ Waikato, Adams Ctr High Performance, Mt Maunganui, New Zealand; [Sims, Stacy T.] Univ Waikato, Adams Ctr High Performance, Mt Maunganui, New Zealand								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000559343100009	32	Article; Article		
J	Komissarov, Serguei S.								Dynamics of carving runs in alpine skiing. II.Centrifugal pendulum with a retractable leg								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	8			912	939		10.1080/14763141.2020.1788630			SEP 14 2022	2022	In this paper, we present an advanced model of centrifugal pendulum where its length is allowed to vary during swinging. This modification accounts for flexion and extension of skier's legs when turning. We focus entirely on the case where the pendulum leg shortens near the vertical position, which corresponds to the most popular technique for the transition between carving turns in ski racing, and study the effect of this action on the kinematics and dynamics of these turns. In particular, we find that leg flexion on approach to the summit point is a very efficient way of preserving the contact between skis and snow. The up and down motion of the skier centre of mass can also have a strong effect of the peak ground reaction force experienced by skiers, particularly at high inclination angles. Minimisation of this motion allows a noticeable reduction of this force and hence of the risk of injury. We make a detailed comparison between the model and the results of a field study of slalom turns and find a very good agreement. This suggests that the pendulum model is a useful mathematical tool for analysing the dynamics of skiing.		[Komissarov, Serguei S.] Univ Leeds, Dept Appl Math, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Komissarov, Serguei S.] Univ Leeds, Dept Appl Math, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000555121700001	19	Article; Article		
J	Gomes, Beatriz B.; Ramos, Nuno, V; Conceicao, Filipe; Sanders, Ross; Vaz, Mario; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo								Paddling time parameters and paddling efficiency with the increase in stroke rate in kayaking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	10			1303	1311		10.1080/14763141.2020.1789204			NOV 26 2022	2022	The paddling stroke rate (SR) is one of the key determinants of flat water kayak performance. The aim of this study was to analyse the way in which the kayak paddler changes the duration of the water and aerial phases due to the increase in stroke rate. Ten elite kayak paddlers (five males and five females) were analysed performing 200 m on-water trials in an individual kayak (K1), at four different stroke rates (60, 80, 100 strokes per minute and race pace). The duration of the water and aerial phases, SR and impulse were computed based on the data collected using theFPaddlesystem. Results corroborate the importance of reaching higher SR to increase kayak velocity (r= 0.904,p< 0.001). Both water and aerial phase durations correlated negatively with SR (r= -0.929, p R= -0.909,p< 0.001, respectively). However, with the first, the correlation was linear (r(2) = 0.883), and for the second, the trend of relationship was curvilinear (r(2) = 0.893). Due to differences in correlation, the results suggest that at high SR (above 120 strokes per minute) to continue increasing SR it will be more productive to reduce the duration of the water phase.		[Gomes, Beatriz B.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Act, Coimbra, Portugal; [Ramos, Nuno, V; Vaz, Mario] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Inst Sci & Innovat Mech & Ind Engn, Fac Engn, Porto, Portugal; [Conceicao, Filipe; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Fac Sports, Porto, Portugal; [Sanders, Ross] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Gomes, Beatriz B.] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Act, Coimbra, Portugal								20							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000555117500001	20	Article; Article		
J	Sato, Nahoko; Nunome, Hiroyuki; Hattori, Mio; Ikegami, Yasuo								Effect of individual ankle taping components on the restriction of ankle external inversion moment								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	9			1181	1191		10.1080/14763141.2020.1792539			SEP 2 2023	2023	The efficacy of individual taping components to restrain ankle inversion sprain has not been fully understood to date. We aimed to clarify specific taping components that can effectively restrain the amount of angular impulse due to external ankle inversion moments during dynamic ankle motion. Nine participants with chronic ankle instability performed a side-jump with five taping conditions: stirrup, figure eight, heel lock, basketweave, and without taping (control). During the initial landing phase, angular impulses, plantar inclination angle of the whole foot, and plantar flexion angle of the midfoot and hindfoot were compared among these conditions. The basketweave was the only taping condition succeeded in significantly reducing plantar inclination angle of the whole foot, thereby inducing significantly reduced angular impulse due to external ankle inversion moment compared with the control. Although the stirrup and figure eight were found to significantly restrict the plantar flexion angle of the hindfoot and the midfoot, respectively, neither of these components could alter the plantar inclination angle of the whole foot. It was suggested that all the taping components are necessary to reduce the external ankle inversion moments. Certain components should not be used individually to alter the plantar inclination angle of the whole foot.		[Sato, Nahoko; Hattori, Mio] Nagoya Gakuin Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Nunome, Hiroyuki] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Ikegami, Yasuo] Aichi Shukutoku Univ, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Nagakute, Aichi, Japan; [Sato, Nahoko] Nagoya Gakuin Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000553321700001	20	Article; Article		
J	Collier, Trevor; Haskell, Nancy; Rotthoff, Kurt W.; Baker, Alaina								The "Cinderella Effect": The Value of Unexpected March Madness Runs as Advertising for the Schools								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	8			783	807	1527002520944437	10.1177/1527002520944437			DEC 2020	2020	This study looks at the impact of a university making a surprise ("Cinderella") run in the men's NCAA basketball tournament. Our results suggest that surprise success in the tournament has little to no impact on the quantity of applications in subsequent years. However, we find that freshmen enrollments increase for private schools two academic years after a Cinderella run (with mixed results on the quality of freshmen-although not worse). Given an average private school, with 1,253 freshmen and paid tuition of $24,428 (each year) plus room and board, a Cinderella run is worth approximately $7.3 million in 2012-dollars.		[Collier, Trevor; Haskell, Nancy] Univ Dayton, Econ, Dayton, OH 45469 USA; [Baker, Alaina] Univ Dayton, Dayton, OH 45469 USA; [Rotthoff, Kurt W.] Seton Hall Univ, Stillman Sch Business, Econ & Finance, S Orange, NJ 07079 USA; [Rotthoff, Kurt W.] Seton Hall Univ, 400 South Orange Ave,JH 674, S Orange, NJ 07079 USA								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000558584300001	33	Article; Article		
J	Matassi, Fabrizio; Sani, Giacomo; Innocenti, Matteo; Giabbani, Niccolo; Civinini, Roberto								Arthroscopic confirmation of femoral button deployment avoids post-operative X-ray in ACL reconstruction								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	2			171	175		10.1080/00913847.2020.1796469			APR 3 2021	2021	Background Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) with cortical fixation adjustable-loop devices are associated with high potential risk of button malpositioning or interposition of the soft tissue between lateral femoral cortex and the button. Surgeons usually use X-rays to check and avoid button malposition and soft tissue interposition. Arthroscopic visualization of button position through the lateral gutter has been described. With this technique, it is possible for identification and correction of femoral button malalignment in the setting of soft tissue interposition and it could avoid the use of post-operative X-ray. Methods A total of 193 ACLR were included and patients were randomized into two groups. The first series (Group A) of 112 patients who sustained an ACLR with post-operative X-ray to assess the position of the femoral button and the second series (Group B) of 81 patients who sustained an ACLR with an arthroscopic exploration of the button followed by post-operative X-ray. Results On the post-operative radiographs, tissue interposition between the button and femoral cortex was found in nine cases of 112 in Group A (8%) and in zero case of 81 in Group B (0%). In six cases (7,4%) in Group B, there was a soft tissue interposition between the button and femoral cortex as visualized by arthroscopic confirmation and before post-operative X-ray; in all these cases, the soft tissue was removed, and the button was in contact with the bone in all X-ray made in the Group B. Conclusions This technique allows for identification and correction of femoral button malalignment in the setting of soft tissue interposition and reduces the use of post-operative X-ray.		[Matassi, Fabrizio; Sani, Giacomo; Innocenti, Matteo; Giabbani, Niccolo; Civinini, Roberto] Univ Florence, AOU Careggi, Orthopaed Clin, Florence, Italy; [Sani, Giacomo] Univ Florence, Orthpaed Clin, I-50139 Florence, Italy								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000553292500001	19	Article; Article		
J	Schupfner, Rupert; Pecher, Stefan; Pfeifer, Eva; Stumpf, Christian								Physiological factors which influence the performance potential of athletes: analysis of sports medicine performance testing in Nordic combined								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			106	115		10.1080/00913847.2020.1796181			JAN 2 2021	2021	Background The sports medicine performance diagnostics include investigative procedures that supply information on the performance capacity and stamina of an athlete. This creates a foundation for a personalised training plan and enables optimised control of the training process. Methodology The study population consisted of 24 male Nordic combined athletes from the national German squad. They were monitored using sports medicine over a period of five winter seasons. The test speeds on the treadmill in m/s are determined at lactate values of 2, 3 and 4 mmol/l in the peripheral blood values to calculate the lactate curve. Results The higher the test performance expressed as a percentage, the more likely it was that a top position could be achieved. The individual anaerobic threshold and the maximal oxygen uptake increased significantly with an increase in test performance expressed as a percentage. The older the athlete, the better they performed in the overall world cup. When age increased, the test speed [m/s] at lactate values of 2, 3 and 4 mmol/l also increased, along with the test performance expressed as a percentage, the maximal oxygen uptake and the individual anaerobic threshold. A higher BMI proved advantageous in terms of placement in the individual competitions. Conclusion In this study the test speed at a lactate concentration of 4 mmol/l can be recommended as a robuster, more independent from mathematical models and physiologically more valid parameter for performance diagnostics in professional athletes.		[Schupfner, Rupert; Pfeifer, Eva] Hosp Bayreuth, Dept Traumatol, Bayreuth, Germany; [Pecher, Stefan] DOSB Frankfurt Main, Dept Sports Med, Frankfurt, Germany; [Stumpf, Christian] Hosp Bayreuth, Dept Cardiol, Bayreuth, Germany; [Schupfner, Rupert] Hosp Bayreuth, Dept Traumatol Bayreuth, D-95445 Bayreuth, Germany								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000553444100001	25	Article; Article		
J	Brown, Judah; Sheridan, Brandon J.								The Impact of National Anthem Protests on National Football League Television Ratings								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	8			829	847	1527002520944452	10.1177/1527002520944452			DEC 2020	2020	The National Football League's (NFL) television ratings decreased by approximately 8% during the 2016 season, then a further 10% the following season. These declines coincided with league-wide national anthem protests initiated by Colin Kaepernick at the beginning of the 2016 season. Existing research identifies many determinants of demand for sporting events, but athletes' protests are seldom considered. We use detailed data on players' protests and television ratings to construct a new, game-level panel for the four NFL seasons between 2014 and 2017. Our results show protests are statistically significantly associated with lower TV ratings, but the economic magnitude is relatively muted.		[Brown, Judah] Elon Univ, 2075 Campus Box, Elon, NC 27244 USA; [Sheridan, Brandon J.] Elon Univ, Martha & Spencer Love Sch Business, Econ, Elon, NC USA; [Sheridan, Brandon J.] Elon Univ, 2075 Campus Box, Elon, NC 27244 USA								22							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000552211400001	28	Article; Article		
J	Sarabon, Nejc; Hostnik, Jurij; Markovic, Goran								Acute effects of aerobic activity, static stretching, and explosive exercises on muscular performance and range of motion of young soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			706	716	1747954120942895	10.1177/1747954120942895			DEC 2020	2020	The current study aims to investigate the acute effects of light aerobic activity, static stretching (SS), strengthening and explosive exercises on lower-body muscular performance and range of motion (ROM). Dose-response effect of SS on performance and ROM was also studied. Nineteen young male soccer players (age: 13.9 +/- 0.46 years) participated in a cross-over randomized trial. Participants performed 5-minute aerobic activity, followed by seven bouts of SS of calf, quadriceps, adductor and hamstring muscles lasting 20 seconds each. Additionally, two sets of strengthening and explosive exercises were performed after SS in the experimental condition. Power and strength were assessed by counter-movement jump (CMJ) and maximal voluntary contraction of hip adductors, while 3 flexibility tests were used for assessing ROM of lower body. Repeated-measures ANOVA revealed an increase in CMJ performance after aerobic activity, followed by a decrease after SS in a dose-dependent manner that continued to be present 15 minutes post-SS. Strengthening and explosive exercises did not neutralize the acute negative effects of SS on CMJ performance. No significant acute effect of selected interventions on maximal and explosive strength of hip adductors was observed. Finally, sit-and-reach and hip abduction ROM increased after aerobic activity and continued to increase throughout the SS protocol, and was preserved 15 minutes post-SS. Our results confirm that SS can impair lower-body power in young soccer players, and that these negative effects last at least 15 minutes. Excessive use of SS, as performed in this study, should be avoided during warm-up of young soccer players.		[Sarabon, Nejc; Hostnik, Jurij] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Koper, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc; Hostnik, Jurij] Univ Primorska, Andrei Marusic Inst, Koper, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] S2P Sci Practice Ltd, Lab Motor Control & Motor Behav, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Markovic, Goran] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Zagreb, Croatia; [Markovic, Goran] Motus Melior Ltd, Zagreb, Croatia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Polje 42, SI-6310 Izola, Slovenia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000552007100001	43	Article; Article		
J	Pocock, Chris; Bezodis, Neil E.; Davids, Keith; Wadey, Ross; North, Jamie S.								Understanding key constraints and practice design in Rugby Union place kicking: Experiential knowledge of professional kickers and experienced coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			631	641	1747954120943073	10.1177/1747954120943073			DEC 2020	2020	Place kicks present valuable opportunities to score points in Rugby Union, which are typically performed under varying constraints in competitive performance environments. Previous quantitative studies suggest these interacting constraints can influence fluctuations in place kick success. To further the understanding of how fluctuations in place kicking success emerge, our aim was twofold: i) to explore and identify the key constraints that professional place kickers and experienced place kicking coaches perceive to influence the difficulty of a place kick and ii) to understand the level to which current place kicking practice environments represent these key constraints experienced in performance environments. Six professional place kickers and six experienced place kicking coaches were interviewed. Using a deductive thematic analysis, 11 key constraints were identified: individual constraints of expectation for success and fatigue, task constraints of angle and distance to goalposts, environmental constraints of wind, weather, pitch, and crowd, and situational constraints of previous kicking performance, time remaining and current score margin. Place kicking is typically practised individually or with a small number of place kickers in isolation from team sessions. Where possible, coaches should be encouraged to include place kicking in simulated game scenarios during practice to represent key constraints from performance environments. Our study demonstrates how experiential knowledge can enrich the understanding of sport performance and inform the design of practice environments which simulate relevant constraints of competitive performance to enhance skill adaptation of athletes.		[Pocock, Chris; Wadey, Ross; North, Jamie S.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Pocock, Chris] Kingston Univ, Dept Appl & Human Sci, London KT1 2EE, England; [Bezodis, Neil E.] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Technol Exercise & Med Res Ctr, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sport & Human Performance Res Grp, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Pocock, Chris] Kingston Univ, Dept Appl & Human Sci, London KT1 2EE, England								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000551168500001	28	Article; Article		
J	Maciel, Daniel Germano; Dantas, Glauko Andre Figueiredo; Cerqueira, Mikhail Santos; Barboza, Jean Artur Mendonca; Caldas, Vinicius Vieira De Alencar; de Barros, Alef Cavalcanti Matias; Varela, Ronan Romeno; Magalhaes, Diego Helps; de Brito Vieira, Wouber Herickson								Peak torque angle, acceleration time and time to peak torque as additional parameters extracted from isokinetic test in professional soccer players: a cross-sectional study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	9			1108	1119		10.1080/14763141.2020.1784260			SEP 2 2023	2023	This study investigated additional and traditional variables from isokinetic test of thigh muscles in soccer players across different field positions. One hundred and eighty-nine athletes performed maximal concentric isokinetic knee contractions on dominant (DL) and non-dominant limb (NDL) at 60o/s and 240o/s. The additional outcomes peak torque angle (AngPT), acceleration time (AcT) and time to peak torque (TPT) and traditional outcomes Peak torque (PT), total work (TW) and power (Pw) were extracted from the exam. Goalkeepers (GK), side backs (SB), central backs (CB), central defender midfielders (CDM), central attacking midfielders (CAM) and forwards (FW) were considered. Comparisons between limbs and positions demonstrated that SB extensors of the DL presented TPT lower (p = 0.006) and AngPT higher (p = 0.011) than NDL at 60 degrees/s. CDM extensors of the DL showed lower TPT at 60 degrees/s (p = 0.003) and 240 degrees/s (p = 0.024). CAM flexors of the DL showed lower TPT (p = 0.026) and AcT (p = 0.021) at 240 degrees/s than NDL. CB, CDM and CAM extensors of the NDL showed higher PT, TW and Pw than DL (p < 0.05). In conclusion, there are muscle imbalances between limbs in SB, CDM and CAM and across different field positions.		[Maciel, Daniel Germano; Dantas, Glauko Andre Figueiredo; Cerqueira, Mikhail Santos; Barboza, Jean Artur Mendonca; Caldas, Vinicius Vieira De Alencar; de Barros, Alef Cavalcanti Matias; Varela, Ronan Romeno; Magalhaes, Diego Helps; de Brito Vieira, Wouber Herickson] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Phys Therapy, Natal, RN, Brazil; [de Brito Vieira, Wouber Herickson] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Phys Therapy, Natal, RN, Brazil								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000549091000001	37	Article; Article		
J	Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio; McBride, Jeffrey M.; Gonzalez-Diez, Nacho; Garcia-Lopez, David; Gonzalez-Gallego, Javier; de Paz, Jose Antonio								Comparison of Flywheel and Pneumatic Training on Hypertrophy, Strength, and Power in Professional Handball Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				93	1			1	15		10.1080/02701367.2020.1762836			JAN 2 2022	2022	Purpose: The mechanical properties of resistance-training machines are a variable that may help to optimize sports performance and injury prevention protocols. The purpose of this study was to examine two non-gravity-dependent training modalities on muscle structure and function.Methods: Eighteen professional handball players were randomly divided into two experimental groups: 1) iso-inertial flywheel training (FW) and 2) pneumatic resistance training (PN). Participants in both groups completed twelve training sessions in six weeks consisting of three movements (lateral raise, internal and external rotation). Four sets of seven repetitions for each movement were performed during each session. Before and after training subscapularis and deltoid (anterior, middle, posterior) muscle thickness was measured. Isokinetic torque and power during internal and external rotation at 60, 180, and 240 deg center dot s(-1)was measured as well. Throwing speed was assessed before and after training while both sitting and standing situations.Results: Both groups showed similar significant increases in throwing speed and internal and external rotation peak torque, average and peak power at all angular velocities. Anterior and middle deltoid muscle thickness changes were greater after training in FW (20 and 22%) in comparison to PN (14 and 7%, respectively).Conclusions: In summary, both flywheel and pneumatic training resulted in similar increases in shoulder strength and power and throwing speed. However, flywheel training appeared to possibly result in a slightly greater level of muscle hypertrophy of the anterior and middle deltoid. Non-gravity dependent training appears to induce changes that would be beneficial to sports performance and perhaps injury prevention.		[Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio; Gonzalez-Gallego, Javier; de Paz, Jose Antonio] Univ Leon, Leon, Spain; [Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio; Gonzalez-Diez, Nacho; Garcia-Lopez, David] European Univ Miguel de Cervantes, Valladolid, Spain; [McBride, Jeffrey M.] Appalachian State Univ, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio] European Univ Miguel de Cervantes, Dept Hlth Sci, Calle Padre Julio Chevalier 2, Valladolid 47012, Spain								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000549008500001	37	Article; Article		
J	Buskard, Andrew N. L.; Roberson, Kirk B.; Signorile, Joseph F.								A Novel Assessment Technique Does Not Produce More Reliable Estimates of Maximal Neuromuscular Strength								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			630	638		10.1080/02701367.2020.1761935			OCT 2 2021	2021	Accurate determinations of individuals' one-repetition maximum (1RM) are critical when evaluating the effectiveness of an exercise intervention involving progressive resistance training (RT). Traditional ("bottom-up"; BT) testing methods involve progressions from low to maximal loads and are commonly used in clinical and laboratory environments. Concerns about the reliability of BT testing in certain populations suggest a different technique may be more effective.Purpose: To compare the reliability and effectiveness of traditional 1RM testing to a novel technique (TDT) involving progressive load reductions and a starting intensity equal to 130% of exercisers' estimated 1RM.Method: 70 healthy adults (age = 45.03 +/- 25.64 y) with diverse RT experience were randomized into a reliability testing trial (RTT; n = 33) or an optimal method trial (OMT; n = 37). Subjects in the RTT performed either TDT or BT on 3 occasions separated by >= 72 hours, while subjects in the OMT performed each method once in random order on separate days.Results: No significant differences in percent coefficient of variation were observed between BT and TDT for either exercise used in the study (pneumatic seated chest press: Hedge'sg= 0.25,p= .49; pneumatic recumbent leg press: Hedge'sg= 0.12,p= .74). TDT was not found to produce significantly higher 1RM values than BT in any group.Conclusion: TDT does not appear to facilitate more reliable 1RM estimates than BT. Further research is needed to determine the stability of these findings across levels of exercisers' age, sex, and previous RT experience.		[Buskard, Andrew N. L.; Signorile, Joseph F.] Univ Miami, Coral Gables, FL 33124 USA; [Roberson, Kirk B.] Stetson Univ, Deland, FL USA; [Signorile, Joseph F.] Univ Miami, Lab Neuromuscular Res & Act Aging, Dept Kinesiol & Sports Sci, 1507 Levante Ave, Coral Gables, FL 33146 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000548016800001	19	Article; Article		
J	Kahan, David; McKenzie, Thomas L.								Website Representations of Physical Education and Physical Activity: Comparison of Public Charter and Private Schools								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			865	872		10.1080/02701367.2020.1761934			OCT 2 2021	2021	Purpose: Health authorities recommend schools play a major role in providing and promoting physical activity (PA). School choice legislation has led to increases in both public charter schools and private schools, and these have greater flexibility in curriculum, staffing, and other practices than traditional public schools. Most schools have public websites for informing constituents about their goals, curricula, and programs. Little is known, however, about how they use websites to provide information about and advocate for PA programs. Thus, we compared how selected PA programs were represented on public charter and private elementary school websites.Methods: We conducted a systematic content analysis of the websites of 520 public charter and 990 private schools in California that included grades 1-5 and compared how they represented PE, interscholastic sport, and other PA opportunities.Results: Websites mentioned PA programs infrequently and provided little information about them. PE was the PA program mentioned most often on both charter (30.8%) and private (71.3%) school websites, but information about its frequency, duration, curricula, and who taught it was comparatively scarce (range: charter (4.8 - 22.5%); private (11.2 - 54.8%). More private than charter school websites mentioned interscholastic sport (45.6% vs. 16.5%,p<.001) and other extracurricular PA programs (26.8% vs. 20.4%,p=.006).Conclusion: Although available in nearly all schools, website content about PA/PE was limited. In this regard, however, private school websites were more fully developed than those in public charter schools.		[Kahan, David; McKenzie, Thomas L.] San Diego State Univ, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Kahan, David] San Diego State Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, ENS Bldg 315,5500 Campanile Dr, San Diego, CA 92182 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000548009600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Papadopoulos, Panayiotis; Lund, Robin J.; Ficklin, Travis K.; Reed, Jacob P.								The Role of the Rhythm Step on Pro-Agility Test Performance in Division I Football Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			529	536		10.1080/02701367.2020.1756195			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: The pro-agility test is a common test in multiple sports. A common way to start is the crossover step (CS) where athletes start the drill by crossing one leg over the other. However, the rhythm step (RS), initiated by moving one foot medially before crossing the opposite foot over the first, may result in faster time. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to compare the RS to the CS in the pro-agility test.Methods: Thirteen division I college football players (age 21 +/- 1.5 years, mass 103.5 +/- 18 kg, and stature 1.87 +/- .078 m) were recruited to perform both step techniques. Video was analyzed to determine times during the first five yards (t(1)), the second ten yards (t(2)), the last five yards (t(3)), and the total time (t(total)). Additionally, maximum acceleration (a(max)), time to maximum acceleration (t(amax)), maximum body lean angle (theta(lean)), and time to reach theta(lean)(t(theta lean)) were measured.Results: Descriptive statistics (mean +/- SD) were calculated for all variables. A significant difference between the two techniques was observed at t(1)(RS mean 1.56 +/- 0.09 s, CS mean 1.62 +/- 0.11 s), t(total)(RS mean 4.99 +/- 0.35 s, CS mean 5.09 +/- 0.35 s), and t(amax)(RS mean 0.38 +/- 0.67, CS mean 0.46 +/- 0.61).Conclusion: Overall, the RS appeared to be superior to the CS for reaching peak acceleration faster during the initial phase of the pro-agility drill as well as short distance sprints that are initiated from a standing position.		[Papadopoulos, Panayiotis; Reed, Jacob P.] Univ Northern Iowa, 2301 Hudson Rd,104-0200 WRC, Cedar Falls, IA 50614 USA; [Lund, Robin J.] Univ Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242 USA; [Ficklin, Travis K.] Dixie State Univ, St George, UT 84770 USA; [Papadopoulos, Panayiotis] Univ Northern Iowa, 2301 Hudson Rd,104-0200 WRC, Cedar Falls, IA 50614 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547108800001	17	Article; Article		
J	Pelzer, Thiemo; Schmidt, Marcus; Jaitner, Thomas; Pfeiffer, Mark								External training load and the effects on training response following three different training sessions in young elite beach volleyball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			717	727	1747954120940488	10.1177/1747954120940488			DEC 2020	2020	Purpose The interaction between external training load (ETL) and players internal response in beach volleyball is currently poor investigated. Using single parameters (e.g. jump volume) described in indoor settings is questionable due to specific load characteristics like sandy ground and reduced number of players. The aim of this work is to analyze ETL and the effects on training response in different beach volleyball training settings. Methods This study was conducted with 7 youth elite athletes (age: 18.9 +/- 1.3 years, height: 185.2 +/- 7 cm, body mass: 75.9 +/- 10.4 kg, 2 males/5 females). Training sessions were classified into three categories with (A) high session jump volume (SJV) and lower proportions of other action types like diving, reception, defense actions and setting, (B) moderate SJV and (C) low SJV and higher proportions of other action types. Delayed Onset of Muscle Soreness [DOMS], Creatinkinase [CK] and session rate of perceived exertion [s-RPE] were analyzed as training response markers. Results Mean pre to post differences in CMJ-Height were highest at sessions with high jump volume and less other actions (Session A) with no significant differences between (C) to (B) (p = .128), (C) to (A) (p = .237) and (B) to (A) (p = .101). Response markers (DOMS, s-RPE, CK) showed increased values at session type C. Conclusions SJV does not seem to trigger training response with higher marker responsiveness during low frequency sessions. Changes in directions, diving or fast getting up might rather provoke fatigue during training.		[Pelzer, Thiemo] Olymp Training Ctr Rhineland Palatinate Saarland, Dept Exercise Sci, Robert Koch Str 50, D-55129 Mainz, Germany; [Schmidt, Marcus; Jaitner, Thomas] TU Dortmund Univ, Dept Sports & Sport Sci, Dortmund, Germany; [Pfeiffer, Mark] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Inst Sport Sci, Dept Theory & Pract Performance Sports, Mainz, Germany; [Pelzer, Thiemo] Olymp Training Ctr Rhineland Palatinate Saarland, Dept Exercise Sci, Robert Koch Str 50, D-55129 Mainz, Germany								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000548294500001	36	Article; Article		
J	MacDonald, Dany J.; Camire, Martin; Erickson, Karl; Santos, Fernando								Positive youth development related athlete experiences and coach behaviors following a targeted coach education course								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			621	630	1747954120942017	10.1177/1747954120942017			DEC 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to examine if a positive youth development (PYD) coach education course would (i) result in more positive developmental experiences perceived by athletes of participant coaches and (ii) increase the frequency of PYD-oriented behaviors exhibited by participant coaches. A total of 14 coaches and 270 athletes participated in the study. Eight coaches (M-age = 38.0 years) overseeing 154 athletes (M-age = 13.8 years) were in the control group, while six coaches (M-age = 36.7 years) overseeing 116 athletes (M-age = 13.9 years) were in the experimental group. The 10-week intervention combined a group-based PYD coach education course with individualized coach meetings. Seven practices per coach were observed and recorded at baseline (n = 2), intervention (n = 3), and follow-up (n = 2). Athletes completed measures of coach-athlete relationships and sport experiences at the three time points. Results of the 2 x 3 (group x time) mixed ANOVAs demonstrated that coaches in the intervention group increased the frequency of their PYD-oriented behaviors during the intervention but returned to levels slightly above baseline at follow-up. Coaches in the control group did not change their behaviors over the same period. Athlete reports of their developmental experiences were high at all time points and did not change over time. Findings suggest PYD coach education has the potential to influence coach behavior, but further research is required to determine how to create sustained changes for coaches and increases in athletes' perceived positive developmental experiences.		[MacDonald, Dany J.] Univ Prince Edward Isl, Dept Appl Human Sci, Charlottetown, PE, Canada; [Camire, Martin] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Erickson, Karl] Michigan State Univ, Inst Study Youth Sports, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Santos, Fernando] Polytech Inst Porto, Higher Sch Educ, Porto, Portugal; [Santos, Fernando] Polytech Inst Viana do Castelo, Higher Sch Educ, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Santos, Fernando] Ctr Res & Innovat Educ, InED, Porto, Portugal; [MacDonald, Dany J.] Univ Prince Edward Isl, Dept Appl Human Sci, Charlottetown, PE, Canada								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000548274400001	38	Article; Article		
J	D'Artibale, Emanuele; Neville, Jonathon; Cronin, John B.								Inertial stresses of national and international motorcycle circuit racing riders								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			728	737	1747954120941162	10.1177/1747954120941162			DEC 2020	2020	The forces on the human body associated with motorcycle racing are currently unpublished, and this study aimed at quantifying the negative and positive accelerations that circuit racers experience during real competitions via direct measurements in different classes of racing. Kinematical measurements of braking actions and corner exits during competitive laps were identified via GPS signal in 23 riders competing in 13 different circuits and categories (i.e. European Junior Cup 2016, national and world level 600 cc SuperSport). Fully equipped body mass of riders was measured and individual inertial forces were calculated. Riders in an entry-level class championship experienced 87 +/- 11 brakes per race, while national and world SS600 class championships were found to have on average 144 +/- 14 and 171 +/- 28 brakes per race, respectively. For each braking action, the calculated inertial mean force acting on the rider centre of gravity was from 476 to 513 N on average, and peak forces doubling these values. Moreover, the mean inertial forces generated while accelerating to exit the corners were from 300 to 384 N on average, with the WSS class recording 33% larger accelerations compared to the entry category EJC. The findings of this study: suggest that international level riders experience positive and negative inertial loads considerable in volume, frequency and intensity; provide novel information enhancing the knowledge on the performance model for motorcycle circuit racing; and, offer a profile useful for the design of training programmes aiming at preparing riders for competition.		[D'Artibale, Emanuele; Neville, Jonathon; Cronin, John B.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, AUT Millennium, Auckland, New Zealand; [D'Artibale, Emanuele] WIL Sport, Taupo, New Zealand; [D'Artibale, Emanuele] AUT Millennium, SPRINZ, 17 Antares Pl, Auckland 0632, New Zealand								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000548254700001	18	Article; Article		
J	Lau, Ee Shan; Chung, Ho Jin; Hwa, Michael Chia Yong								Voices of Singapore national beach volleyball female athletes: What is an ideal coach?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			642	652	1747954120941304	10.1177/1747954120941304			DEC 2020	2020	A coach has a great influence on athletes' performance and development. Communication and coaching styles that work with male athletes may not be effective in female athletes. The alignment of coaching to the preferences of female athletes is important for effective coaching and their holistic development. Therefore, it is essential to understand how female athletes perceive an ideal coach. The purpose of this research is to uncover how Singapore national beach volleyball female athletes voice about an ideal coach. Seven Singapore national beach volleyball female athletes were interviewed. Thematic analysis was used to analyze the data. The three main themes are - understanding the female athletes, being a role model with responsibility, and possessing rich experience as a coach and athlete. The three main themes that were developed from the voices of the Singapore national beach volleyball female athletes are supported by the literature on transformational coaching in terms of these components: idealized influence and individualized consideration. The findings of this research could help to establish a more comfortable, trusting and well-communicated training environment for female athletes.		[Lau, Ee Shan; Chung, Ho Jin; Hwa, Michael Chia Yong] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [Chung, Ho Jin] Nanyang Technol Univ, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000546590800001	67	Article; Article		
J	Henderson, Zachariah J.; Sanzo, Paolo; Zerpa, Carlos; Kivi, Derek								Ankle bracing's effects during a modified agility task: analysis of sEMG, impulse, and time to complete using a crossover, repeated measures design								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	8			1063	1077		10.1080/14763141.2020.1778777			AUG 3 2023	2023	This study explored the effects of no braces, softshell (AE), and semi-rigid (T1) ankle braces on time to complete a modified agility task, as well as lower extremity muscle activity and impulse during the change of direction component of the task. Thirty-nine healthy, active individuals completed a modified agility task under the three brace conditions. Time to complete the modified agility task, along with mean surface electromyographic activity (sEMG) and impulse during the deceleration and propulsive phases of the task were measured. There were no significant differences across conditions with respect to sEMG or impulse measures during the deceleration or propulsive phases. There was a significant change in time to complete the modified agility task,F(2,76) = 17.242,p< 0.001, eta p(2) = 0.312. Post-hoc analysis revealed a significant increase in time to complete the modified agility task when wearing the AE (0.16 (95% CI, 0.062 to 0.265) seconds,p< 0.001) and T1 (0.20 (95% CI, 0.113 to 0.286) seconds,p< 0.001) ankle braces compared to no braces. It appears that performance on a modified agility task may be diminished when wearing ankle braces, although sEMG activity and impulse are unaffected.		[Henderson, Zachariah J.; Sanzo, Paolo; Zerpa, Carlos; Kivi, Derek] Lakehead Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Thunder Bay, ON, Canada; [Henderson, Zachariah J.] Univ Manitoba, Appl Hlth Sci, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Sanzo, Paolo] Northern Ontario Sch Med, Clin Sci, Thunder Bay, ON, Canada; [Henderson, Zachariah J.] Lakehead Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Thunder Bay, ON, Canada; [Henderson, Zachariah J.] Univ Manitoba, Appl Hlth Sci, Winnipeg, MB, Canada								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547161700001	40	Article; Article		
J	Milosis, Dimitrios C.; Siatras, Theophanis A.; Christoulas, Kosmas I.; Patikas, Dimitrios A.								Construct validity of gymnastics-specific assessment on the neuromuscular function of shoulder flexor and extensor muscles								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	8			966	981		10.1080/14763141.2020.1772861			AUG 3 2023	2023	The present study examined the construct validity of gymnastics-specific measurements of the shoulder flexor and extensor neuromuscular function. Fifteen male gymnasts and 18 male physical education (PE) students participated voluntarily. The electromyogram (EMG) of 3 flexor and 3 extensor shoulder muscles was assessed during isometric (45, 90, and 135o) and isokinetic (concentric and eccentric 60, 180, and 300o/s) shoulder flexion/extension. Peak torque (PT) and neuromuscular function in terms of neuromuscular efficiency (NME, i.e. torque to EMG ratio) and antagonist/agonist coactivation index were evaluated. The construct validity of the measurements was supported by the ability to discriminate between gymnasts and physical education (PE) students, taking into consideration the shoulders' neuromuscular function parameters (37%-57% of the variability explained). After accounting for the limitations of the study, these findings may assist gymnastics coaches and researchers to develop and evaluate more effective training methods for athletes related to shoulder joint physiological characteristics and level of expertise.		[Milosis, Dimitrios C.; Siatras, Theophanis A.; Christoulas, Kosmas I.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Lab Evaluat Human Biol Performance, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Patikas, Dimitrios A.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Serres, Greece; [Milosis, Dimitrios C.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Lab Evaluat Human Biol Performance, Thessaloniki, Greece								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547836500001	53	Article; Article		
J	Barquero-Ruiz, Carmen; Morales-Belando, Maria T.; Arias-Estero, Jose L.								A Teaching Games for Understanding Program to Deal With Reasons for Dropout in Under-11 Football								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			618	629		10.1080/02701367.2020.1759767			OCT 2 2021	2021	Young players report that they dropout of organized football due to excessive emphasis on technical execution, low success, and the lack of autonomy and motivation experienced by players during training sessions.Purpose: To determine whether a TGfU intervention during a youth football program led players to improve in variables related to dropout. That means tactical-technical competence (decision-making, skill execution), success (successful game performance), autonomy (number of decisions made, player autonomy, number of game involvements, player participation), and motivation (enjoyment, intention to be physically active).Method: Twenty under-11-players and two coaches were recruited from 17 clubs. A pretest-posttest design with a multi-method approach was used. Coaches were trained and mentored in TGfU. Data were collected using Game Performance Assessment Instrument, enjoyment and intention to be physically active scales, and two focus groups with the players and the coaches.Results: Players improved in decision-making, skill execution, successful game performance, number of decisions made, number of game involvements, and intention to be physically active (p< .05). Participants attributed the results to the TGfU pedagogical features emphasized during the coaches' training and mentoring.Conclusion: Considering the reasons for dropout in football, in terms of excessive emphasis on technical execution, low success, and the lack of autonomy and motivation experienced by players, TGfU could be a useful pedagogical approach for teaching-learning organized youth football. The TGfU pedagogical features emphasized during coaches' training and mentoring could be crucial to obtain these results due to the fact that they were the sub-themes highlighted during the focus groups.		[Barquero-Ruiz, Carmen; Morales-Belando, Maria T.; Arias-Estero, Jose L.] UCAM Univ Catolica San Antonio Murcia, Murcia, Spain; [Arias-Estero, Jose L.] UCAM Univ Catolica San Antonio Murcia, Fac Deporte, Campus Jeronimos S-N, Murcia 30107, Spain								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547427400001	42	Article; Article		
J	Bini, Rodrigo; Hume, Patria								Reproducibility of lower limb motion and forces during stationary submaximal pedalling using wearable motion tracking sensors								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	8			1041	1062		10.1080/14763141.2020.1776760			AUG 3 2023	2023	In order to address gaps in the literature, this study assessed the reproducibility (i.e., difference between and within sessions) of joint and muscle forces using wearable sensors during stationary cycling. Seventeen male cyclists performed two sessions on a cycle ergometer cycling at a combination of three power outputs (1.5, 2.5 and 3.5 W/kg) and three pedalling cadences (60, 80 and 100 rpm) in two sessions (2-7 days apart). The first trial from each session was repeated at the end of the session for assessment of within-session reproducibility. Three-dimensional (3D) full-body motion and 3D bilateral pedal forces were collected using an inertial motion tracking system and a pair of instrumented pedals, respectively. Joint angles, muscle forces and knee joint forces were computed using OpenSim. Poor to excellent agreement (ICCs = 0.31-0.99) was observed and differences were trivial to small and non-significant between trials within-session. Poor to excellent agreement (ICCs = 0.05-0.97) was observed and differences were trivial to large between sessions. Variability can be attributed to changes in muscle recruitment strategies (within and between-sessions) and to repositioning of sensors (between-sessions).		[Bini, Rodrigo] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Rural Hlth Sch, Bendigo, Australia; [Bini, Rodrigo; Hume, Patria] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Bini, Rodrigo] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Rural Hlth Sch, Bendigo, Australia; [Bini, Rodrigo] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547527600001	39	Article; Article		
J	Lauterbach, Claire J.; Romano, Phebe A.; Greisler, Luke A.; Brindle, Richard A.; Ford, Kevin R.; Kuennen, Matthew R.								Accuracy and Reliability of Commercial Wrist-Worn Pulse Oximeter During Normobaric Hypoxia Exposure Under Resting Conditions								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			549	558		10.1080/02701367.2020.1759768			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: The present study analyzed peripheral blood oxygen saturation (SpO2) and heart rate (HR) measurements taken on the Garmin fenix (R) 5X Plus watch, comparing them to measurements taken on a standard medical-grade pulse oximeter during normobaric hypoxia exposure under resting conditions.Methods: Thirteen women (mean +/- SD: Age 20 +/- 1 years, height 165 +/- 5 cm, mass, 67 +/- 9 kg) and ten men (mean +/- SD: Age 21 +/- 3 years, height 177 +/- 6 cm, mass 78 +/- 11 kg) sat inside a customized environmental chamber while the fraction of inspired oxygen (FIO2) was adjusted to simulate altitudes of 12,000; 10,000; 8,000; 6,000; and 900 ft. The novel commercial device (Garmin fenix (R)) and a medical-grade pulse oximeter (Nonin (R) 7500) were used to measure S(p)O(2)and HR in triplicate at each simulated altitude. Bland-Altman analyses were used to assess differences between methods.Results: Bland-Altman analysis indicated 3.3% bias for S(p)O(2)measurements taken on the Garmin fenix (R) at 12,000 ft of simulated altitude (limits of agreement: -1.9-8.6%). Mean differences in S(p)O(2)measurements were smaller at the remaining simulated altitudes, where bias measurements ranged from 0.7% to 0.8%. The Garmin fenix (R) also underestimated heart rate, but those discrepancies were minimal (bias measurements at all simulated altitude exposures were < 1.0 bpm).Conclusions: With the exception of readings taken at 12,000 ft of simulated altitude, the Garmin fenix (R) exhibits minimal overestimation of S(p)O(2)and minimal underestimation of HR during simulated altitude exposure. These data suggest the Garmin fenix (R) watch may be a viable method to monitor S(p)O(2)and HR under most ambient environmental conditions.		[Lauterbach, Claire J.; Romano, Phebe A.; Greisler, Luke A.; Brindle, Richard A.; Ford, Kevin R.; Kuennen, Matthew R.] High Point Univ, High Point, NC USA; [Brindle, Richard A.] Baylor Univ, Keller Army Community Hosp, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Kuennen, Matthew R.] High Point Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, One Univ Pkwy, High Point, NC 27268 USA								34							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547476000001	40	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Ran; Fukuda, David H.; Cheng, Peng; Hu, Yang; Stout, Jeffrey R.; Hoffman, Jay R.								Differential effects of speed on two-dimensional foot strike pattern during barefoot and shod running in recreationally active men								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	4			438	451		10.1080/14763141.2018.1497194			JUL 3 2020	2020	The majority of barefoot running studies have not considered speed as an influential factor on foot strike pattern. The aim of this study was to investigate differences in foot strike pattern and spatiotemporal characteristics between barefoot and shod overground running at varying speeds. We first determined maximal running speed (Vm) over 50 m in 15 recreationally active men who self-reported as habitual rearfoot strikers. Participants then completed shod and barefoot running trials at different speeds equivalent to approximately 90%, 80%, 70% and 60% of Vm. Sagittal plane two-dimensional (2D) foot-ground contact angle, ankle plantar-dorsi flexion angle, contact time, flight time, step length and step rate variables for each trial were recorded. A significant interaction effect of running speed and footwear condition (p < 0.05) on foot-ground contact angle, ankle plantar-dorsi flexion angle and contact time was observed. There was a main effect of running speed (p < 0.01) on flight time, step length and step rate. There was a main effect of footwear condition on step length (p < 0.01). Participants were more inclined to plantarflex the ankle and contact the ground with the forefoot at higher percentages of Vm, especially when running barefoot.		[Wang, Ran] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Training, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Ran; Fukuda, David H.; Stout, Jeffrey R.; Hoffman, Jay R.] Univ Cent Florida, Inst Exercise Physiol & Wellness, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Cheng, Peng; Hu, Yang] Beijing Sport Univ, Sport Sci Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Fukuda, David H.] Univ Cent Florida, Inst Exercise Physiol & Wellness, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544822300002	42	Article; Article		
J	Dallas, George; Theodorou, Apostolos S.								The influence of a hurdle target point on the kinematics of the handspring vault approach run during training								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	4			467	482		10.1080/14763141.2018.1497196			JUL 3 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to investigate if a visible target for the hurdle take-off would influence the onset of visual regulation and hurdle kinematics during the approach run. Ten elite male gymnasts (age 23.4 +/- 4.9 years, height 1.68 +/- 0.06 m, mass 63.3 +/- 6.2 kg) performed six handspring vaults with a full approach run under two controlled conditions: (a) with a 5-cm white tape on the runway marking the last touchdown of the approach run and the commencement of the hurdle (tape condition-T) and (b) under the standard vaulting regulations (non-tape condition-NT). Spatiotemporal data of the approach run and the hurdle were collected by four stationary and one panning cameras (sampling rate 300 fps). Eight out of 10 gymnasts commenced regulation earlier under T than under NT. Under T condition, horizontal velocity (Vx(to) = 9.06 +/- 0.41 m/s) and vertical velocity (V-to = 9.35 +/- 0.37 m/s) was significantly faster than under NT condition (Vx(to) = 8.85 +/- 0.49 m/s;V-to = 9.11 +/- 0.47 m/s). Introducing a target for the hurdle facilitates an early onset of step regulation and significantly improves the kinematics of the hurdle.		[Dallas, George; Theodorou, Apostolos S.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci SEFAA, Athens, Greece; [Theodorou, Apostolos S.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci SEFAA, Athens, Greece								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544822300004	59	Article; Article		
J	Dos'Santos, Thomas; Comfort, Paul; Jones, Paul A.								Average of trial peaks versus peak of average profile: impact on change of direction biomechanics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	4			483	492		10.1080/14763141.2018.1497197			JUL 3 2020	2020	The aims of this study were twofold: firstly, to compare lower limb kinematic and kinetic variables during a sprint and 90 degrees cutting task between two averaging methods of obtaining discrete data (peak of average profile vs. average of individual trial peaks); secondly, to determine the effect of averaging methods on participant ranking of each variable within a group. Twenty-two participants, from multiple sports, performed a 90 degrees cut, whereby lower limb kinematics and kinetics were assessed via 3D motion and ground reaction force (GRF) analysis. Six of the eight dependent variables (vertical and horizontal GRF; hip flexor, knee flexor, and knee abduction moments, and knee abduction angle) were significantly greater (p <= 0.001,g = 0.10-0.37, 2.74-10.40%) when expressed as an average of trial peaks compared to peak of average profiles. Trivial (g <= 0.04) and minimal differences (<= 0.94%) were observed in peak hip and knee flexion angle between averaging methods. Very strong correlations (rho >= 0.901,p < 0.001) were observed for rankings of participants between averaging methods for all variables. Practitioners and researchers should obtain discrete data based on the average of trial peaks because it is not influenced by misalignments and variations in trial peak locations, in contrast to the peak from average profile.		[Dos'Santos, Thomas; Comfort, Paul; Jones, Paul A.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab, Manchester, England; [Dos'Santos, Thomas] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab, Manchester, England								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544822300005	32	Article; Article		
J	Ae, Kazumichi; Koike, Sekiya; Kawamura, Takashi								Kinetic function of the lower limbs during baseball tee-batting motion at different hitting-point heights								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	4			452	466		10.1080/14763141.2018.1497195			JUL 3 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to investigate the kinetic functions of the lower limbs at different hitting-point heights to provide key information for improving batting technique in baseball players. Three-dimensional coordinate data were acquired using a motion capture system (250 Hz) and ground reaction forces were measured using three force platforms (1000 Hz) in 22 male collegiate baseball players during tee-batting set at three different hitting-point heights (high, middle, and low). Kinetic data were used to calculate joint torque and mechanical work in the lower limbs by the inverse dynamics approach. The peak angular velocity of the lower trunk about the vertical axis was smaller under the low condition. The joint torques and mechanical works done by both hip adduction/abduction axes were different among the three conditions. These results indicate that hip adduction/abduction torques mainly contribute to a change in the rotational movement of the lower body about the vertical axis when adjusting for different hitting-point heights. In order to adjust for the low hitting-point height which would be difficult compared with other hitting-point heights, batters should focus on rotating the lower trunk slowly by increasing both hip abduction torques.		[Ae, Kazumichi] Ibaraki Prefectural Univ Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Ami, Ibaraki, Japan; [Koike, Sekiya; Kawamura, Takashi] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Ae, Kazumichi] Ibaraki Prefectural Univ Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Ami, Ibaraki, Japan								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544822300003	27	Article; Article		
J	Suchomel, Timothy J.; Nimphius, Sophia; Stone, Michael H.								Scaling isometric mid-thigh pull maximum strength in division I Athletes: are we meeting the assumptions?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	4			532	546		10.1080/14763141.2018.1498910			JUL 3 2020	2020	This study examined the validity of various scaling methods, isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP) peak force using various scaling methods, and the relationships between IMTP peak force and countermovement jump height. Fifty-one collegiate baseball and soccer athletes performed two maximal IMTPs. Absolute peak force was compared between teams and when data were scaled using ratio (RS), traditional allometric (ALLO(Trad)), and fitted allometric (ALLO(Fit)) scaling. ALLO(Trad)and ALLO(Fit)validity was violated because different derived exponents existed for baseball (b= 0.20) and soccer (b= 1.20). Soccer athletes produced greater RS peak force compared to baseball (p= 0.012), while no difference existed with absolute, ALLO(Trad)or ALLO(Fit)(allp> 0.05) peak force. Moderate relationships existed between body mass and absolute (r= 0.402,p= 0.003) and RS (r= -0.328,p= 0.019) peak force, while trivial relationships existed with ALLO(Trad)and ALLO(Fit)(bothr< -0.10,p> 0.05). Trivial relationships existed between countermovement jump height and absolute, RS, ALLO(Trad), and ALLO(Fit)(allr< 0.20,p> 0.05) peak force. The current dataset violated allometric scaling assumptions, making it inappropriate to use ALLO(Trad)and ALLO(Fit)scaling. Practitioners must understand the assumptions, limitations, and purpose of scaling methods.		[Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA; [Nimphius, Sophia] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Johnson City, TN USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544822300008	35	Article; Article		
J	Duan, Yanling; Liu, Bing								Spectator satisfaction model for mass participant sport events: antecedents and consequences								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	2			385	406		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2019-0104			APR 6 2021	2021	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to propose and examine an integrated model of spectator satisfaction in mass participant sport events. Design/methodology/approach The Wuhan marathon, held in the middle of China, was selected serve for the study to examine the antecedents and consequences of spectator satisfaction at mass participant sport events. Data were collected from 956 spectators of the event on the day of the race. Structural equation modeling was used to examine the research model proposed by this study. Findings Structural equation modeling results indicate the following. First, the event image and perceived social impact of the event are important predictive factors of spectator satisfaction. Second, spectator satisfaction is positively associated with behavioral intentions toward the event and the sponsors' product. Third, spectator satisfaction plays a significant mediating role between the antecedents and consequences; specifically, compared to perceived social impacts of the event, event image has greater indirect effects on both event-related behavioral intentions and event sponsors' products. Originality/value Until now, there has not been an integrated research study on the sport spectator satisfaction model in the context of mass participant sport events. This paper thus extends the understanding of the spectator satisfaction in the context of mass participant sport events, and the findings provide valuable implications for holding cities and event organizers of mass participant sport events in emerging countries.		[Duan, Yanling] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liu, Bing] Shanghai Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Duan, Yanling] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000547862400001	99	Article; Article		
J	Pettit, Joseph A.; Karageorghis, Costas, I								Effects of video, priming, and music on motivation and self-efficacy in American football players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			685	695	1747954120937376	10.1177/1747954120937376			DEC 2020	2020	Highlight videos accompanied by inspiring music can help in enhancing an athlete's motivational state and self-efficacy (SE). The addition of verbal priming techniques could provide a further boost, but this combination of audiovisual stimuli has yet to be examined in a sport context. A repeated-measures, crossover design was used. The study entailed a pretraining intervention administered to American football players (N = 32). Measures included the Situational Motivation Scale and an SE scale. Participants were exposed to control, music, video, video-music, video-priming, and video-music-priming conditions. Repeated-measures MANOVA indicated that the video-music condition elicited the strongest response in terms of increasing intrinsic forms of motivation (p = .010) and decreasing amotivation (p = .019). Three of eight SE components (Perceptions of Effort, Consistency, and Concentration), and an overall global SE score were significantly enhanced by the experimental stimuli, with video-music-priming eliciting the most positive response, followed by video-music. The present findings indicate the utility of audiovisual interventions combined with verbal primes immediately prior to sporting performance. Practitioners working with athletes might consider the preperformance use of motivational music and videos along with embedded subliminal verbal primes.		[Pettit, Joseph A.] Bangor Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Bangor, Gwynedd, Wales; [Karageorghis, Costas, I] Brunel Univ London, Dept Life Sci, Uxbridge UB8 3PH, Middx, England; [Karageorghis, Costas, I] Brunel Univ London, Dept Life Sci, Uxbridge UB8 3PH, Middx, England								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000545231700001	56	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Garcia, Oscar; Cuba-Dorado, Alba; Riveiro-Bozada, Alicia; Carballo-Lopez, Javier; Alvarez-Yates, Tania; Lopez-Chicharro, Jose								A Maximal Incremental Test in Cyclists Causes Greater Peripheral Fatigue in Biceps Femoris								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			460	468		10.1080/02701367.2019.1680789			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The aim of this study was to determine the changes in neuromuscular contractile properties in elite cyclists associated to the peripheral fatigue produced in a maximal incremental test in cycle ergometer.Methods: Forty-eight volunteers' well-trained male cyclists were evaluated during the competition season within a recovery microcycle. Tensiomyography was used before and after performing an incremental test until exhaustion in cycle ergometer to measure the radial muscle belly displacement of the vastus lateralis (VL), rectus femoris (RF), and biceps femoris (BF) on the dominant leg. Maximum radial muscle belly displacement (Dm), contraction time (Tc), delay time (Td), sustain time (Ts), and radial displacement velocity (Vrd) were measured. Mixed-design factorial analysis of variance was used to detect changes in the mechanical and neuromuscular characteristics after a maximal incremental exercise test.Results: The results show in the evaluated muscles a moderate-large decrease (p< .01, eta 2 = 0.06-0.51) in Tc, Td, Dm, Ts, and Vrd. This decrease occurs more sharply in the BF than in RF or VL.Conclusion: An incremental effort until exhaustion produces peripheral fatigue associated with a decrease in Dm, Tc, Td, Ts, and Vrd, being more pronounced in biceps femoris than in vastus lateralis and rectus femoris. Coaches can use these changes found in the contractile properties as a reference to detect the muscle fatigue degree that certain training models pose for the cyclist.		[Garcia-Garcia, Oscar; Cuba-Dorado, Alba; Riveiro-Bozada, Alicia; Carballo-Lopez, Javier; Alvarez-Yates, Tania] Univ Vigo, Vigo, Spain; [Lopez-Chicharro, Jose] Univ Complutense Madrid, FEBIO Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Garcia-Garcia, Oscar] Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000558924100010	39	Article; Article		
J	Turri-Silva, Natalia; Ricci-Vitor, Ana Laura; Cipriano Jr, Gerson; Garner, David; Netto Jr, Jaime; Giacon, Thais; Destro Christofaro, Diego Giulliano; Marques Vanderlei, Luiz Carlos								Functional Resistance Training Superiority Over Conventional Training in Metabolic Syndrome: A Randomized Clinical Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			415	424		10.1080/02701367.2019.1679333			JUL 2 2020	2020	Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a growing epidemic related with higher values of blood pressure (BP) and autonomic dysfunction. Scientific evidence has been indicating that functional resistance training (FRT) is superior over conventional (CRT) for muscle fatigue and pain, yet its effects on autonomic modulation (AM), BP and heart rate in MetS are unclear. We theorized that FRT can be superior to CRT in MetS patients because of larger muscle activation. This study compares FRT and CRT on AM, blood pressure, heart rate and muscle strength. Thirty-eight sex and age matched individuals (40 to 60 years) were randomized for FRT or CRT, with training intensity varying gradually from 30%-100% of one maximal repetition test (1MR), 3 times/week for 30 sessions. All outcomes were evaluated at baseline and post training. AM was assessed by heart rate variability (mean RR, RMSSD, SDNN, LF, HF, TINN, RRtri, SD1 and SD2). BP (mmHg) was obtained by cuff measures. Muscle strength was assessed by 1MR. An increase in cardiac parasympathetic activity was observed in individuals allocated to FRT in comparison to CRT group (RMSSD increment 40%; SD1 increment 39%; and HFms2 increment 80%). Moreover, just FRT was capable of reducing BP post intervention (SBP from 129.21 +/- 19.02 to 118.94 +/- 14.14 mmHg,p< .009,/d/ = 0.49; DBP from 85.26 +/- 11.48 to 77.76 +/- 8.93 mmHg,p< .01,/d/ = 0.51). Both groups had a similar increase in muscle strength and no changes between HR. Progressive FRT was more beneficial to CRT regarding AM, increasing vagal activity, and reducing blood pressure in MetS individuals.		[Turri-Silva, Natalia; Cipriano Jr, Gerson] Univ Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Turri-Silva, Natalia] Hasselt Univ, Hasselt, Belgium; [Ricci-Vitor, Ana Laura; Netto Jr, Jaime; Giacon, Thais; Destro Christofaro, Diego Giulliano] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Garner, David; Marques Vanderlei, Luiz Carlos] Oxford Brookes Univ, Oxford, England; [Turri-Silva, Natalia] Univ Brasilia, Hlth Sci & Technol Program, Ctr Metropolitano, Campus Univ S-N, BR-72220275 Brasilia, DF, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000558924100006	52	Article; Article		
J	Kinoshita, Keita; MacIntosh, Eric; Sato, Shintaro								The Relationship Between Avoidance Goals and Goal Attainment: A Moderated Mediation Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			394	404		10.1080/02701367.2019.1676370			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The purpose of the study is to examine how the combination of "what" (e.g., mastery- and performance-avoidance goals) and "why" (e.g., external regulation) are related to sport participant's goal attainment. To examine this phenomenon, we used achievement goal theory (AGT) and self-determination theory (SDT). Past research has shown that avoidance goals generally are associated with negative outcomes. In this study, we hypothesized that avoidance goals would positively generate goal attainment through the pathway of effort. Moreover, the indirect association would be moderated by the level of external regulation.Method: Based on a sample of sport participants (N = 390), mediation and moderated mediation analyses were used to test the hypotheses.Result: Both mastery- and performance-avoidance goals were positively related to goal attainment through effort. These relationships were moderated at the value of high and moderate levels of external regulation.Conclusions: The results suggest that, in contrast to the general assumption, avoidance goals are not always detrimental. Rather, the research showed that the combination of avoidance goals and external regulation would be positively associated with goal attainment. This may be the reason that coaches' controlling behaviors (e.g., punishment or reward) are commonly utilized, and some people believe that external regulation is effective in sport. However, the relationships should be carefully interpreted because the associations should not last long and may be an unhealthy way to improve athletes' performance.		[Kinoshita, Keita; MacIntosh, Eric] Univ Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Sato, Shintaro] Waseda Univ, Tokyo, Japan; [Sato, Shintaro] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 2-7-5 Higashifushimi, Tokyo 2020021, Japan								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000558924100004	48	Article; Article		
J	Detanico, Daniele; Kons, Rafael Lima; Fukuda, David Hideyoshi; Teixeira, Anderson Santiago								Physical Performance in Young Judo Athletes: Influence of Somatic Maturation, Growth, and Training Experience								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			425	432		10.1080/02701367.2019.1679334			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: To determine the individual contributions of chronological age, somatic maturation, body size and composition, and training experience as indicators of performance in neuromuscular and judo-specific assessments in young athletes.Methods: Sixty-six youth judo athletes performed anthropometric measurements, neuromuscular tests-standing long jump test (SLJ), medicine ball throw test (MBT), handgrip strength test (HGS), and judo-specific tests-Special Judo Fitness test (SJFT) and Judogi Grip Isometric Strength Test (JGST(ISO)). A multiple linear regression was used with the level of significance set at 5%.Results: The main results showed age-peak height velocity (PHV), body fat and training experience explained close to 20% of SJFT performance. Chronological age, age-PHV, height, body mass and body fat accounted for 42% of variance in JGST(ISO). Chronological age, body fat and training experience explained 35% of the variance in SLJ, while chronological age, body mass and body fat explained 53% of the variance in MBT. Finally, age-PHV, body mass and height explained 54% of the variance in HGS.Conclusion: Estimated age-PHV and growth variables explained moderate to large proportions of the variance in neuromuscular tests (with exception of SLJ), while both estimated age-PHV, training and growth variables were predictors of judo-specific performance.		[Detanico, Daniele; Kons, Rafael Lima; Teixeira, Anderson Santiago] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Fukuda, David Hideyoshi] Univ Cent Florida, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Detanico, Daniele] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Sports, Biomech Lab, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000558924100007	40	Article; Article		
J	Schedler, Simon; Brock, Katharina; Fleischhauer, Fabian; Kiss, Rainer; Muehlbauer, Thomas								Effects of Balance Training on Balance Performance in Youth: Are There Age Differences?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			405	414		10.1080/02701367.2019.1676371			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: In youth, cross-sectional studies reported age differences in balance performance that were in favor of adolescents. Thus, trainability of balance performance might be different in children compared to adolescents. The purpose of this study was therefore to compare the effects of balance training (BT) on balance performance between children and adolescents.Method: Thirty children (7.5 +/- 0.5 years) and 42 adolescents (14.7 +/- 0.5 years) participated in this study and were assigned to either a BT-group or a control (CON) group. In both age groups, BT was conducted over five weeks while the CON-groups received their regular physical education lessons. Pre- and posttests included the assessment of mobility, static steady-state, proactive, and reactive balance.Results: Significant Test x Group x Age interactions were found for static steady-state balance (i.e., CoP displacements during single leg stance) and mobility (i.e., 10-m gait velocity). For both measures, post hoc analysis revealed larger improvements (+16-37%, 0.001 <= p <= 0.033, 0.65 <= d <= 2.24) for children compared to adolescents. For proxies of proactive and reactive balance, we could not detect significant Test x Group x Age interactions.Conclusions: We conclude that trainability of static steady-state balance and mobility seems to be higher in children than in adolescents indicating larger adaptive reserves in children compared to adolescents. However, there were no age differences in adaptations to BT with respect to proactive and reactive balance.		[Schedler, Simon; Brock, Katharina; Fleischhauer, Fabian; Muehlbauer, Thomas] Univ Duisburg Essen, Essen, Germany; [Kiss, Rainer] FHM Bielefeld Univ Appl Sci, Bielefeld, Germany; [Schedler, Simon] Univ Duisburg Essen, Div Movement & Training Sci Biomech Sport, Gladbecker Str 182, D-45141 Essen, Germany								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000558924100005	28	Article; Article		
J	Saavedra, Jose M.; Halldorsson, Kristjan; Porgeirsson, Sveinn; Einarsson, Ingi P.; Gudmundsdottir, Margret L.								Prediction of Handball Players' Performance on the Basis of Kinanthropometric Variables, Conditioning Abilities, and Handball Skills								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			229	+		10.2478/hukin-2019-0147			JUL 2020	2020	Handball (team handball) is a multifactorial sport. The aims of this study were (i) to analyse anthropometric variables, conditioning abilities, and handball skills in club handball players according to age and sex, and (ii) to develop multivariate models explaining club handball performance from a multidimensional perspective. Two hundred and twenty six handball players (age 16.9 +/- 4.0 years, 54% males) participated in the study. The players belonged to under-14, under-16, under-19, and A teams. They were evaluated with a battery of 18 tests covering kinanthropometry, conditioning abilities, and handball skills. A one-way ANOVA with a Bonferroni post-hoc test was used to investigate differences between teams, and a t-test for differences between the sexes. For each team, a discriminant analysis was performed to determine differences between performance levels. The results showed little differences between the U19 and A teams in any of the variables studied in either men or women, and that the lowest values corresponded to the U14 team. The differences according to sex were clear in the kinanthropometric and conditioning variables, but much less so in handball skills. The eight multivariate models that were constructed classified successfully from 48.5 to 100% of the sample using at most three variables (except for the women's A team whose model selected six variables). Conditioning variables were most discriminating in men, and handball skills in women. This would seem to reflect the different performance profiles.		[Saavedra, Jose M.; Halldorsson, Kristjan; Porgeirsson, Sveinn; Einarsson, Ingi P.; Gudmundsdottir, Margret L.] Reykjavik Univ, Phys Act Phys Educ Sport & Hlth Res Ctr, Sch Social Sci, Sports Sci Dept, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Saavedra, Jose M.] Reykjavik Univ, Sch Sci & Engn, Phys Act Phys Educ Hlth & Sport Res Ctr PAPESH, Menntavegur 1, IS-101 Reykjavik, Iceland								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700020	36	Article; Article		
J	Tsuk, Sharon; Lev, Yarden Har; Fox, Orly; Carasso, Rafael; Dunsky, Ayelet								Does Photobiomodulation Therapy Enhance Maximal Muscle Strength and Muscle Recovery?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			135	144		10.2478/hukin-2019-0138			JUL 2020	2020	Photobiomodulation has been shown to improve tissue and cell functions. We evaluated the influence of photobiomodulation, using a B-Cure laser, on: 1) maximal performance, and 2) muscle recovery after resistance exercise. Two separate crossover randomized double-blinded placebo-controlled trials were conducted. Sixty healthy physical education students (28 men, 32 women), aged 20-35, were recruited (30 participants for each trial). Participants performed two interventions for each experiment, with real lasers (GaAlAs, 808 nm) on three quadricep locations in parallel (overall treatment energy of -150J) or sham (placebo) treatment. In the first experiment muscle total work (TW) and peak torque (PT) were measured by an isokinetic dynamometer in five repetitions of knee extension, and in the second experiment muscle recovery was measured after the induction of muscle fatigue by evaluating TW and PT in five repetitions of knee extension. There were no differences between treatments (real or sham) regarding the TW (F(1,28) = 1.09, p = .31), or PT (F(1,29) = .056, p = .814). In addition, there was no effect of photobiomodulation on muscle recovery as measured by the TW (F(1,27) = .16, p = .69) or PT (F(1,29) = .056, p = .814). Applying photobiomodulation for 10 min immediately before exercise did not improve muscle function or muscle recovery after fatigue.		[Tsuk, Sharon; Lev, Yarden Har; Fox, Orly; Dunsky, Ayelet] Acad Coll Wingate, Netanya, Israel; [Carasso, Rafael] Hillel Yaffe Med Ctr, Hadera, Israel; [Tsuk, Sharon] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Zinman Coll Phys Educ & Sport Sci, IL-4290200 Netanya, Israel								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700013	29	Article; Article		
J	Qian, Jingguang; Mao, Yiling; Tang, Xiao; Li, Zhaoxia; Wen, Chen; Zhang, Songning								A Finite Element Model for Estimation of Contact Dynamics During a Jumping Movement on a Trampoline								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			59	72		10.2478/hukin-2019-0127			JUL 2020	2020	In order to fully understand contact dynamics on a trampoline, a simulation approach using a musculoskeletal model coupled with a dynamic model of the trampoline is essential. The purpose of the study was to examine dynamics and selected lower extremity muscle forces in a landing and jumping movement on a trampoline, using a combination of finite element modeling and musculoskeletal modeling. The rigid frame of the trampoline was modeled in ADAMS and coupled with a finite element model of the elastic trampoline net surface in ANSYS. A musculoskeletal model of an elite trampoline athlete was further developed in LifeMod and combined with the finite element model of the trampoline. The results showed that the peak trampoline reaction forces (TRF) were 3400 N (6.6 BW) and 2900 N (5.6 BW) for the left and right limb, respectively. The right hip, knee and ankle joint reaction forces reached the maximum between 3000-4000 N (5.8 - 7.7 BW). The gluteus maximum and quadriceps reached the maximum muscle force of 380 N (0.7 BW) and 780 N (1.5 BW), respectively. Asymmetric loading patterns between left and right TRFs and lower extremities joint reaction forces were observed due to the need to generate the rotational movement during the takeoff. The observed rigid and erect body posture suggested that the hip and knee extensors played important roles in minimizing energy absorption and maximizing energy generation during the trampoline takeoff.		[Qian, Jingguang; Tang, Xiao] Nanjing Sport Inst, Dept Sport Sci, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Mao, Yiling; Li, Zhaoxia] Southeast Univ, Dept Engn Mech, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Wen, Chen; Zhang, Songning] Univ Tennessee, Biomech Sports Med Lab, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Zhang, Songning] Univ Tennessee, Biomech Sports Med Lab, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, 1914 Andy Holt Ave, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700006	19	Article; Article		
J	Maria Yague, Jose; Molinero, Olga; Angel Alba, Jose; Carlos Redondo, Juan								Evidence for the Relative Age Effect in the Spanish Professional Soccer League								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			209	218		10.2478/hukin-2019-0145			JUL 2020	2020	The concept of the relative age effect refers to the consequences of the physical and psychological differences that may exist between those born earlier or later within the same calendar year. The objective of the present study was to examine this phenomenon in Spanish professional soccer, identifying the influences of the competitive level and the club of origin. The sample comprised 2,130 individuals from five competitive categories: under 12 (U12; n = 480), under 14 (U14; n = 338), under 16 (U16; n = 390), under 19 years old (U19; n = 489) and professional players (n = 433), with nine teams from the Spanish professional soccer league (PSL). Statistical analysis was based on a chi-squared test followed by calculation of the odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals. The main results show that at all levels of competition there was over-representation of individuals born in the first few months of the year. By clubs, the same over-representation was observed. It may be concluded that the relative age effect is consistent and exists throughout Spanish soccer, whether at youth or professional levels. An analysis by age categories showed a more pronounced effect in those competitions in which the youngest players participate, while in clubs the effect continued to be significantly present in all cases investigated in the study.		[Maria Yague, Jose; Molinero, Olga; Angel Alba, Jose; Carlos Redondo, Juan] Univ Leon, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain; [Carlos Redondo, Juan] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Educ, Campus Vegazana S-N, Leon 24071, Spain								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700018	46	Article; Article		
J	Cui, Yixiong; Liu, Haoyang; Gomez, Miguel-Angel; Liu, Hongyou; Goncalves, Bruno								Set-to-set Performance Variation in Tennis Grand Slams: Play with Consistency and Risks								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			153	163		10.2478/hukin-2019-0140			JUL 2020	2020	The study analysed the set-to-set variation in performance using match statistics of 146 completed main-draw matches in Australian Open and US Open 2016-2017 men's singles. Comparisons of technical-tactical and physical performance variables were done between different sets; and the within-match coefficients of variation (CV) of these variables were contrasted between match winning and losing players. All comparisons were realized via standardized (Cohen's d) mean differences and uncertainty in the true differences was assessed using non-clinical magnitude-based inferences. Results showed that there was possibly to very likely decreases in the serve, net and running related variables (mean difference, +/- 90%CL: -0.16, +/- 0.14 to -0.45, +/- 0.24, small) and an increase in the return and winner related variables (0.17, +/- 0.24 to 0.24, +/- 0.14, small) in the last sets when compared to the initial sets, indicating the influence of match fatigue and the player's choice of match tactics and pacing strategy. Besides, winning players were revealed to have lower CV values in most of performance variables (-0.16, +/- 0.24 to -0.82, +/- 0.23, small to moderate) except for the second serve, winner, and physical performance variables (0.25, +/- 0.26 to 1.6, +/- 0.25, small to large), indicating that they would sacrifice the consistency to gain more aggressiveness and to dominate the match.		[Cui, Yixiong; Liu, Haoyang] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Engn, AI Sports Engn Lab, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Gomez, Miguel-Angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Actividad Fis & Deporte INEF, Madrid, Spain; [Liu, Hongyou] South China Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Goncalves, Bruno] Univ Evora, Dept Sport & Hlth, Evora, Portugal; [Liu, Haoyang] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Engn, AI Sports Engn Lab, Beijing, Peoples R China								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700015	42	Article; Article		
J	Nigro, Federico; Bartolomei, Sandro								A Comparison Between the Squat and the Deadlift for Lower Body Strength and Power Training								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			145	152		10.2478/hukin-2019-0139			JUL 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to compare the effects of two resistance training programs including either a deadlift or a parallel squat on lower body maximal strength and power in resistance trained males. Twenty-five resistance trained men were randomly assigned to a deadlift group (DE; n = 14; age = 24.3 +/- 4.1 y; body mass = 84.8 +/- 14.2 kg; body height = 180.3 +/- 6.8 cm) or to a squat group (SQ; n = 11; age = 22.3 +/- 1.6 y; body mass = 83.0 +/- 13.6 kg; body height 179.9 +/- 6.1 cm). Both groups trained 3 times per week for 6 weeks. The deadlift and the squat were the only lower body maximal strength exercises performed by DE and SQ groups, respectively, while both training programs included jumps. A significantly (p = 0.017) greater increase in deadlift 1RM was observed in the DE compared to the SQ group, while the SQ group obtained a significantly (p = 0.049) greater increase in squat /RM. A significant increase in jump performance (p = 0.010), without significant interactions between groups (p = 0.552), was observed in both groups. Three participants of the DE group developed lower back pain and were excluded from the study. Results indicate that both the squat and the deadlift can result in similar improvement in lower body maximal strength and jump performance and can be successfully included in strength training programs. The incidence of back pain in the DE group may suggest a marked stress of this exercise on the lower back. Proper technique should be used to minimize the risk of injury, especially when the deadlift is performed.		[Nigro, Federico; Bartolomei, Sandro] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies, Via Pilastro 8, I-40100 Bologna, Italy; [Bartolomei, Sandro] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies, Via Pilastro 8, I-40100 Bologna, Italy								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700014	33	Article; Article		
J	Washif, Jad Adrian; Kok, Lian-Yee								The Reactive Bounding Coefficient as a Measure of Horizontal Reactive Strength to Evaluate Stretch-Shortening Cycle Performance in Sprinters								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			45	55		10.2478/hukin-2020-0003			JUL 2020	2020	Plyometric exercises such as drop jumping and bounding offer athletes a substantiated means of enhancing athletic performance. Between the two exercises, reactive measurement using bounding (reactive bounding coefficient LRBC]) has received scant attention within the domain of training and conditioning. Therefore, this study aimed to identify the viability of utilising a speed-bounding exercise to assess horizontal reactive strength. Eleven young, male elite sprinters (age: 17.8 +/- 1.3 yr; body height: 1.72 +/- 0.06 m; body mass: 66.05 +/- 6.10 kg; best 100 m sprint time: 10.77 +/- 0.32 s) were tested for static jumps (SJ), drop jumps (DJ), 10 speed-bounding (RBC10), and 50 m sprint performance. Between-group comparisons based on sprint ability (fast FSG] vs. slow LSSG] sprint-group) and correlation coefficients were computed subsequently. The FSG (n = 5; 50 m time: 5.82 +/- 0.11 s; RBC10: 7.46 +/- 0.27) performed significantly better in the RBC10 (p = 0.036) than the SSG (n = 5; 50 m time: 6.09 +/- 0.13 s; RBC10: 7.09 +/- 0.25). A very high correlation was attained between the RBC10 and the criterion measure, the SJ (r = 0.83). Additionally, RBC10 appeared to be correlated with 30, 50, 10-30 and 30-50 m sprint times (r = -0.52 to -0.60). This positive trend, however, was not observed for the DJ reactive strength index (trivial to moderate correlations). Good reliability was shown for the RBC10 and all sprint distances (<1.5% coefficient variation). Furthermore, all sprinters attained ground contact times of 0.12-0.18 s during the RBC10 which was indicative of fast stretch-shortening cycles during movement, suggesting that the RBC10 could be utilised to assess plyometric ability and enhance sprint performance. Overall, the RBC10 seems able to discriminate between the FSG and the SSG, indicating it has acceptable levels of validity and reliability.		[Washif, Jad Adrian] Natl Sports Inst Malaysia, High Performance Branch, Bukit Jalil, Malaysia; [Kok, Lian-Yee] Univ Putra Malaysia, Dept Sports Studies, Serdang, Malaysia; [Washif, Jad Adrian] Natl Sports Inst Malaysia, Sports Performance Div, High Performance Branch, Natl Sports Complex, Kuala Lumpur 57000, Malaysia								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700004	38	Article; Article		
J	Hung, Min-Hao; Chang, Chi-Yao; Lin, Kuo-Chuan; Hung, Chia-Ling; Ho, Chin-Shan								The Applications of Landing Strategies in Badminton Footwork Training on a Backhand Side Lateral Jump Smash								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			19	31		10.2478/hukin-2020-0002			JUL 2020	2020	Previous research in badminton has associated unilateral landings following overhead strokes with the occurrence of knee injuries. Smashing involves tensing the abdomen muscles while swinging the racket rapidly and maintaining one's balance while performing coordinated movements and steps; this process puts stress on the player's lower limbs. However, few studies have compared the effects of different stroke training while performing various types of badminton strokes. This study investigated the influence of different stroke training on the smash action of badminton players. Three stroke training conditions were considered: shadow, target striking, and smashing. Sixteen male experienced badminton players were recruited for this study. One-way repeated-measures ANOVA with Bonferroni correction was used to identify the differences. At the initial contact with the ground, the knee flexion and knee valgus angles under the smash condition were significantly higher than target and shadow conditions. Under the smash condition, hip abduction was significantly higher than under the target and shadow conditions. Moreover, the hip abduction under the target condition was significantly higher than under the shadow condition. At the maximum knee flexion, the hip abduction under the smash and target conditions was significantly higher than under the shadow condition. Regarding the time from the moment of initial contact to the peak of vertical ground reaction force it was shorter under the smash condition than the target and shadow conditions. The vertical ground reaction force was higher under the smash condition than under the target and shadow conditions. The 50 ms impulse was higher under the smash condition than under the target and shadow conditions. The main findings of this study are that under the smash condition, the motion in the frontal plane increased, which produced higher loads on the joints in the lower limbs. Player performed the same footwork under the three conditions, but the landing strategies differed because of unique swing motions and techniques. The condition under which a player hits a shot to a target area can affect the landing. The results of this study suggest that target practice is more effective for improving the landing technique employed during actual shots than shadow practice.		[Hung, Min-Hao; Chang, Chi-Yao; Ho, Chin-Shan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Lin, Kuo-Chuan] Chung Yuan Christian Univ, Off Phys Educ, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Hung, Chia-Ling] Kaohsiung Vet Gen Hosp, Phys Med & Rehabil Dept, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Ho, Chin-Shan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, 250,Wenhua 1st Rd, Guishan Township 33301, Taoyuan County, Taiwan								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700002	39	Article; Article		
J	Pedrosa, Gustavo Ferreira; Machado, Sandra Carvalho; Ribeiro Diniz, Rodrigo Cesar; de Lacerda, Lucas Tulio; Martins-Costa, Hugo Cesar; Pereira de Andrade, Andre Gustavo; Bemben, Michael; Chagas, Mauro Heleno; Lima, Fernando Vitor								The Effects of Altering the Concentric/Eccentric Phase Times on EMG Response, Lactate Accumulation and Work Completed when Training to Failure								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			33	44		10.2478/hukin-2019-0132			JUL 2020	2020	This study compared the electromyographic response, the blood lactate concentration (BLC), and the maximum number of repetitions (MNR) between protocols of different concentric/eccentric duration taken to muscle failure. This comparison may help to understand how different concentric/eccentric duration may influence performance and the central and metabolic responses in trained men. Seventeen strength-trained men performed two protocols in a counterbalanced design. Three sets of the Smith bench press exercise were performed to failure at 60% of the one-repetition maximum (/RM) using each protocol (4-s concentric/2-s eccentric [4 s: 2 s]; and 2-s concentric/4-s eccentric 12 s: 4 s]). The normalized root mean square (EMGRMS) and the mean frequency (EMGMF) of the electromyographic signals for the pectoralis major and the triceps brachii were compared in the first, middle, and last repetitions. The BLC was assessed at rest, during and after the test sessions. To compare the EMG and BLC, a 3-way ANOVA with repeated measures with a post hoc Tukey's test was used. To compare the MNR performed across the sets, an ANOVA-type rank test with the Dunn's post hoc test was used. The ANOVA indicated a greater EMGRMS for Protocol 4 s: 2 s in the pectoralis major and a lower EMGMF for Protocol 4 s: 2 s in the triceps brachii at the middle and last repetitions. Both protocols increased the EMGRMS and decreased the EMGMF across repetitions. Despite the results show different levels of activation and neuromuscular fatigue between protocols, the BLC and the MNR were similar.		[Pedrosa, Gustavo Ferreira; Machado, Sandra Carvalho; Ribeiro Diniz, Rodrigo Cesar; de Lacerda, Lucas Tulio; Martins-Costa, Hugo Cesar; Chagas, Mauro Heleno; Lima, Fernando Vitor] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Weight Training Lab, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Pedrosa, Gustavo Ferreira] Ctr Instrucao & Adaptacao Aeronaut, Lagoa Santa, Brazil; [de Lacerda, Lucas Tulio] Technol Educ Fed Ctr Minas Gerais, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [de Lacerda, Lucas Tulio; Martins-Costa, Hugo Cesar] Pontificia Univ Catolica Minas Gerais, Dept Phys Educ, Lab Movement Anal & Human Performance, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Pereira de Andrade, Andre Gustavo] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Biomech Lab Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat The, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Bemben, Michael] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Norman, OK 73019 USA; [Chagas, Mauro Heleno] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Weight Training Lab, Av Antonio Carlos 6627, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700003	33	Article; Article		
J	Manferdelli, Giorgio; Freitag, Nils; Doma, Kenji; Hackney, Anthony C.; Predel, Hans-Georg; Bloch, Wilhelm; Schumann, Moritz								Acute Hormonal Responses to High-Intensity Interval Training in Hyperoxia								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			125	134		10.2478/hukin-2019-0137			JUL 2020	2020	This study aimed to compare selected hormonal responses to a single session of high intensity interval training performed with an increased fraction of inspired oxygen (hyperoxia) and under normoxic conditions. Twelve recreationally trained men (age 24 +/- 3 years) performed two sessions of high intensity interval training on a cycle ergometer, in randomized order with hyperoxia (4 L.min(-1) with a flowrate of 94% O-2) and normoxia. Each session consisted of 5 intervals of 3 minutes at 85% of the maximal power output, interspersed by 2 min at 40% of the maximal power output. Serum cortisol, prolactin and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) were assessed both before and immediately after each high intensity interval training session. Statistically significant differences in cortisol were found between hyperoxic and normoxic conditions (p = 0.011), with a significant increase in hyperoxia (61.4 +/- 73.2%, p = 0.013, ES = -1.03), but not in normoxia (-1.3 +/- 33.5%, p > 0.05, ES = 0.1). Prolactin increased similarly in both hyperoxia (118.1 +/- 145.1%, p = 0.019, ES = -0.99) and normoxia (62.14 +/- 75.43%, p = 0.005, ES = -0.5). VEGF was not statistically altered in either of the conditions. Our findings indicate that a single session of high intensity interval training in low-dose hyperoxia significantly increased cortisol concentrations in recreationally trained individuals compared to normoxia, while the difference was smaller in prolactin and diminished in VEGF concentrations.		[Manferdelli, Giorgio; Freitag, Nils; Bloch, Wilhelm; Schumann, Moritz] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Cardiovasc Res & Sport Med, Dept Mol & Cellular Sport Med, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Doma, Kenji] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Hackney, Anthony C.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Hackney, Anthony C.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Nutr, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Predel, Hans-Georg] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Cardiovasc Res & Sport Med, Dept Prevent & Rehabil Sport Med, Cologne, Germany; [Schumann, Moritz] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Cardiovasc Res & Sport Med, Dept Mol & Cellular Sport Med, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700012	36	Article; Article		
J	Mateos-Angulo, Alvaro; Galan-Mercant, Alejandro; Ignacio Cuesta-Vargas, Antonio								Kinematic Mobile Drop Jump Analysis at Different Heights Based on a Smartphone Inertial Sensor								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			57	+		10.2478/hukin-2019-0131			JUL 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to describe the acceleration variables in a plyometric jump test using the inertial sensor built into an iPhone 4S (R) smartphone, and the jumping variables from a contact mat. A cross-sectional study was conducted involving 16 healthy young adults. Linear acceleration, flight time, contact time and jump height were measured in a drop jump test from 60 cm and from 30 cm. Greater acceleration values were found in the drop jump test from 60 cm; the same was observed for the values from the contact mat. Multiple regression analysis was performed for each drop jump test: jump height was used as the dependent variable, and the most relevant variables were used as predictor variables (weight and maximum angular velocity in the Y axis for analysis of the drop jump from 60 cm, and weight and maximum acceleration in the Z axis for the drop jump from 30 cm). We found a significant regression model for the drop jump test from 60 cm (R2 = 0.515, p < 0.001) and for the test from 30 cm (R2 = 0.460, p < 0.01). According to the results obtained in this study, the built-in iPhone 4S (R) inertial sensor is able to measure acceleration for healthy young adults performing a vertical drop jump test. The acceleration kinematic variables are higher in the drop jump test from 60 cm than from 30 cm.		[Mateos-Angulo, Alvaro; Galan-Mercant, Alejandro; Ignacio Cuesta-Vargas, Antonio] Univ Malaga, Dept Fisioterapia, IBIMA, Malaga, Spain; [Galan-Mercant, Alejandro] Cadiz Univ, MOVE IT Res Grp, Cadiz, Spain; [Galan-Mercant, Alejandro] Cadiz Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Dept Nursing & Physiotherapy, Cadiz, Spain; [Galan-Mercant, Alejandro] Univ Cadiz, Puerta Mar Univ Hosp, Biomed Res & Innovat Inst Cadiz INiBICA, Res Unit, Cadiz, Spain; [Ignacio Cuesta-Vargas, Antonio] Univ Technol, Sch Clin Sci, Fac Hlth Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Galan-Mercant, Alejandro] Univ Cadiz, Fac Nursing & Physiotherapy, Avda Ana Viya 52, Cadiz 11009, Spain								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700005	36	Article; Article		
J	Szafraniec, Rafal; Kisilewicz, Aleksandra; Kumorek, Martyna; Kristiansen, Mathias; Madeleine, Pascal; Mroczek, Dariusz								Effects of High-Velocity Strength Training on Movement Velocity and Strength Endurance in Experienced Powerlifters with Cerebral Palsy								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			235	+		10.2478/hukin-2020-0009			JUL 2020	2020	The present study aimed to evaluate the effects of a 6-week high-velocity strength training (HVST) intervention on movement velocity and strength endurance in experienced powerlifters with cerebral palsy (CP). Eleven experienced powerlifters with CP and seven from a control group (CON), were subjected to 6-week HVST. An assessment of movement velocity and strength endurance was conducted one week before (T1) and one week after (T2) the 6-week training intervention. During testing, athletes performed a maximum number of bench press repetitions possible within 5 sets of 15 s each, with 1-min passive rest intervals in-between. The indicator of movement velocity was the weight pressed in the first 5 s (5sW) in all performed sets. Strength endurance was described by the total weight (TW) pressed during the test. 5sW in T2 was significantly higher as compared with T1 in the CP group only (T1 928.9 +/- 342.9 kg vs. T2 1007.3 +/- 324.6 kg; p = 0.016). TW in T2 was significantly higher as compared with T1, both in the CP group (T1 2550.5 +/- 843.9 kg vs. T2 2809.8 +/- 981.3 kg; p < 0.001) and in the CON group (T1 2300.7 +/- 845.1 kg vs. T2 2468.9 +/- 890.1 kg; p = 0.049). A 6-week program of HVST increased movement velocity in resistance trained CP athletes. The gains of strength endurance were observed in both groups.		[Szafraniec, Rafal; Kisilewicz, Aleksandra; Kumorek, Martyna] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Paralymp Sports, Al Paderewskiego 35, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland; [Kristiansen, Mathias; Madeleine, Pascal] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Sport Sci Performance & Technol, Aalborg, Denmark; [Mroczek, Dariusz] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Biol & Motor Sport Bases, Wroclaw, Poland; [Szafraniec, Rafal] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Paralymp Sports, Al Paderewskiego 35, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700021	18	Article; Article		
J	Cai, Ke-Long; Wang, Jin-Gui; Liu, Zhi-Mei; Zhu, Li-Na; Xiong, Xuan; Klich, Sebastian; Maszczyk, Adam; Chen, Ai-Guo								Mini-Basketball Training Program Improves Physical Fitness and Social Communication in Preschool Children with Autism Spectrum Disorders								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			267	278		10.2478/hukin-2020-0007			JUL 2020	2020	This investigation examined the effects of a 12-week mini-basketball training program (MBTP) on physical fitness and social communication in preschool children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). The study applied a quasi-experimental design. Fifty-nine preschool children aged 3-6 years with ASD were assigned to either a MBTP group (n = 30) or a control group (n = 29). Participants in the MBTP group received a scheduled mini-basketball training program (5 sessions per week, forty minutes per session) for twelve consecutive weeks, while the control group was instructed to maintain their daily activities. The physical fitness test and the parent-reported Social Responsiveness Scale Second Edition (SRS-2) test were performed before and after the intervention. Results indicated that the 12-week MBTP facilitated performance in the physical fitness test, particularly in speed-agility and muscular strength abilities. Additionally, children in the MBTP group demonstrated improvement in SRS-2 performance in social awareness, social cognition, social communication, and autistic mannerisms, whereas no such changes were found in the control group. It may be concluded that the 12-week MBTP could improve physical fitness and social communication in preschool children with ASD, and thus the use of physical exercise intervention as a therapeutic tool for preschoolers with ASD is recommended.		[Cai, Ke-Long; Wang, Jin-Gui; Liu, Zhi-Mei; Xiong, Xuan; Chen, Ai-Guo] Yangzhou Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Yangzhou, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Li-Na] Beijing Normal Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Klich, Sebastian] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Paralymp Sport, Wroclaw, Poland; [Maszczyk, Adam] Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Chen, Ai-Guo] Chinese Polish Lab Sport & Brain Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Chen, Ai-Guo] Coll Phys Educ, Room ES509,Wenti Bldg Yangzijin Campus, Yangzhou 225127, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								64							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700024	45	Article; Article		
J	Dingenen, Bart; Staes, Filip; Vanelderen, Romy; Ceyssens, Linde; Malliaras, Peter; Barton, Christian J.; Deschamps, Kevin								Subclassification of recreational runners with a running-related injury based on running kinematics evaluated with marker-based two-dimensional video analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				99	106		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.04.032			JUL 2020	2020	Objectives: To explore whether homogeneous subgroups could be discriminated within a population of recreational runners with a running-related injury based on running kinematics evaluated with marker-based two-dimensional video analysis. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: Fifty-three recreational runners (15 males, 38 females) with a running-related injury. Main outcome measures: Foot and tibia inclination at initial contact, and hip adduction and knee flexion at midstance were measured in the frontal and sagittal plane with marker-based two-dimensional video analysis during shod running on a treadmill at preferred speed. The four outcome measures were clustered using K-means cluster analysis (n = 2-10). Silhouette coefficients were used to detect optimal clustering. Results: The cluster analysis led to the classification of two distinct subgroups (mean silhouette coefficient = 0.53). Subgroup 1 (n = 39) was characterized by significantly greater foot inclination and tibia inclination at initial contact compared to subgroup 2 (n = 14). Conclusion: The existence of different subgroups demonstrate that the same running-related injury can be represented by different kinematic presentations. A subclassification based on the kinematic presentation may help clinicians in their clinical reasoning process when evaluating runners with a runningrelated injury and could inform targeted intervention strategy development. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dingenen, Bart; Vanelderen, Romy; Ceyssens, Linde] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Reval Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Staes, Filip] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Musculoskeletal Rehabil Res Grp, Dept Rehabil Sci, Fac Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy, Frankston, Vic, Australia; [Malliaras, Peter] Complete Sports Care, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian J.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian J.] Univ Melbourne, St Vincents Hosp, Dept Surg, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Deschamps, Kevin] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Fac Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Campus Bruges, Leuven, Belgium; [Dingenen, Bart] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Reval Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700014	61	Article; Article		
J	Nakagawa, Theresa H.; dos Santos, Ana F.; Lessi, Giovanna C.; Petersen, Rafael S.; Silva, Rodrigo Scattone								Y-Balance Test Asymmetry and Frontal Plane Knee Projection Angle During Single-leg squat as Predictors of Patellofemoral Pain in Male Military Recruits								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				121	127		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.011			JUL 2020	2020	Objectives: Investigate prospectively whether dynamic balance and frontal plane knee projection angle (FPKPA) are risk factors for the development of patellofemoral pain (PFP) in male military recruits. Study design: Prospective cohort. Setting: Military training center. Participants: 135 male military recruits were followed prospectively for six weeks and the incidence of PFP was documented. Main outcomes: Baseline measures of the Y-Balance test (YBT) and two-dimensional FPKPA during single-leg squatting were recorded. Mann-Whitney U tests and logistic regression analysis were utilized to identify possible variables associated with the development of PFP. Results: A total of 14 male recruits developed PFP during the follow up period. The PFP group had significantly greater asymmetry on the YBT posterolateral direction (mean difference = 3.44 +/- 0.57 cm; 95% Confidence Interval [CI] = 2.38-4.51 cm) and greater FPKPA during single-leg squat (mean difference = 5.55 degrees +/- 1.78 degrees; [CI] = 1.81-9.28 degrees) at baseline when compared to controls. Binary logistic regression models revealed that YBT posterolateral asymmetry >= 4.08 cm (Nagelkerke R-2 = 0.304; X-2 = 21.63; p < 0.001; OR = 5.46; [CI] = 4.47-8.06) and FPKPA >= 4.81 degrees (Nagelkerke R-2 = 0.249; X-2 = 17.46; p < 0.001; OR = 4.65; [CI] = 3.32-9.06) were significantly associated with PFP. Conclusions: Male military recruits with greater asymmetry on the YBT posterolateral direction and FPKPA were at a greater risk of developing PFP. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Nakagawa, Theresa H.] Ctr Univ North, Dept Phys Therapy, Rua Joaqu Nabuco 1323, BR-69010060 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Nakagawa, Theresa H.; Petersen, Rafael S.] Fiocruz Brasilia, Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz Brasilia, Ave L3 Norte S-N,Campus Univ Darcy Ribeiro, BR-70904130 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [dos Santos, Ana F.] UNA Univ Ctr, Campus Pouso Alegre,Rua Joao Basilio 420, BR-37550000 Ctr Pouso Alegre, MG, Brazil; [Lessi, Giovanna C.] Tiradentes Univ Ctr UNIT, Av Gustavo Paiva 5017, BR-57038000 Maceio, Alagoas, Brazil; [Silva, Rodrigo Scattone] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Fac Hlth Sci Trairi, Postgrad Program Rehabil Sci, Rua Vila Trairi S-N, BR-59200000 Santa Cruz, RN, Brazil; [Nakagawa, Theresa H.] Fiocruz Brasilia, Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz Brasilia, Ave L3 Norte S-N,Campus Univ Darcy Ribeiro, BR-70904130 Brasilia, DF, Brazil								34							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700017	34	Article; Article		
J	Fredriksen, Hilde; Cools, Ann; Myklebust, Grethe								Development of a short and effective shoulder external rotation strength program in handball: A delphi study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				92	98		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.005			JUL 2020	2020	Background: Weakness of the shoulder external rotators (ER) is one of the main risk factors for shoulder pain in handball. Short, effective shoulder ER strength programs the players will adhere to are lacking. Objectives: to develop a short and effective shoulder ER strength program, handball players will adhere to. Methods: We conducted a modified Delphi study, including experts in the field of shoulder, strength training and handball. In the first round, the experts were asked to rate eight pre-defined shoulder ER exercises on efficacy and adherence and to suggest other preferred exercises. In round two, they were asked to rate the new exercises from round one. In round three, they received a statistical summary of the panels scores, their own score and a summary of the suggestions. Based on the feedback, the experts were asked to revise their response. Results: Sixteen experts completed three rounds with 100% response rate. Twenty-eight exercises were rated. We reached consensus for both efficacy and adherence for two exercises, ER in 90 degrees abduction in a bent-over squat position and ER in 90 degrees abduction combined with horizontal abduction and trunk rotation in a push-up position. Conclusion: We reached consensus for both efficacy and adherence for two exercises. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Fredriksen, Hilde; Myklebust, Grethe] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Sports Med Dept, Oslo, Norway; [Cools, Ann] Univ Ghent, Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, Ghent, Belgium; [Fredriksen, Hilde] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Sports Med Dept, Sognsveien 220, N-0863 Oslo, Norway								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700013	18	Article; Article		
J	De-la-Cruz-Torres, Blanca; Barrera-Garcia-Martin, Irene; Almazan-Polo, Jaime; Jaen-Crespo, Gonzalo; Romero-Morales, Carlos								Ultrasound imaging evaluation of structural and textural features in asymptomatic achilles tendons in pre-professional dancers: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				85	91		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.05.008			JUL 2020	2020	Objective: To evaluate performance descriptors, sociodemographics variables and tendon echogenicity of asymptomatic Achilles tendons and to compare the echotexture from different classification subgroups. Design: A prospective, randomized cross-sectional study was carried out. Setting: laboratory of university. Participants: Forty-two Achilles tendons (AT) were recruited from pre-professional dancers. Based on the echogenicity pattern, the sample was divided into two groups (n = 21, Heterogeneous group; n = 21, Homogeneous group). Main outocome measures: Ultrasound images and ImageJ measurements were performed to evaluate thickness (AT-TH), echointensity (EI) and echovariation (EV), in addition to a balance and endurance test were measured as performance parameter. Results: EI (p = 0.001) and EV (p = 0.001) reported statistically significant differences between groups. AT-TH, endurance test, balance test, years of dance, training hours per week and average pointe hours per week did not showed differences between groups. A multivariate prediction model between groups and the echotexture variables (EI (R-2 = 0.569; EV (R-2 = 0.341)) were determined. Conclusion: Asymptomatic AT of heterogeneous group showed a lower EI and a higher EV compared to homogeneous group. Tendon echogenicity did not interact with performance variables. (C) 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[De-la-Cruz-Torres, Blanca; Barrera-Garcia-Martin, Irene] Univ Seville, Dept Physiotherapy, C Avicena S-N, Seville 41009, Spain; [Almazan-Polo, Jaime; Jaen-Crespo, Gonzalo; Romero-Morales, Carlos] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, C Tajo S-N, Madrid 28670, Spain; [De-la-Cruz-Torres, Blanca] Univ Seville, Avicena St, Seville 41009, Spain								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700012	34	Article; Article		
J	Patterson, Brooke E.; Crossley, Kay M.; Perraton, Luke G.; Kumar, Avnish S.; King, Matthew G.; Heerey, Joshua J.; Barton, Christian J.; Culvenor, Adam G.								Limb symmetry index on a functional test battery improves between one and five years after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, primarily due to worsening contralateral limb function								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				67	74		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.04.031			JUL 2020	2020	Objective: Evaluate change in functional performance from 1- to 5-years after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Methods: 59 participants (38 men) aged 29 +/- 16 years completed three hops and one-leg rise 1- and 5years following ACLR. Linear mixed-effects models evaluated differences in change between the ACLR and contralateral limbs. Participants were classified with stable, improving or worsening function relative to previously published minimal detectable change thresholds. Healthy controls completed the three hops (n = 41) and one-leg rise (n = 31) as reference data. Results: The contralateral limb had a significantly greater decrease in functional performance between land 5-years for the three hops, compared to the ACLR limb. Worsening was more common in the contralateral limb than the ACLR limb; resulting in significant improvements in the LSI for the single hop (mean 87% at 1-year to 95% at 5-years), side hop (77%to 86%) and one-leg rise (76% to85%). Performance of both ACLR and contralateral limbs and the LSI remained below the healthy controls. Conclusion: Functional performance changes differ between limbs between 1- and 5-years post-ACLR. The LSI should not be used in isolation to evaluate functional performance changes after ACLR, as it may overestimate functional improvement, due to worsening contralateral limb function. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Patterson, Brooke E.; Crossley, Kay M.; Kumar, Avnish S.; King, Matthew G.; Heerey, Joshua J.; Barton, Christian J.; Culvenor, Adam G.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Perraton, Luke G.] Monash Univ, Sch Primary Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy, Frankston, Australia; [Culvenor, Adam G.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								73							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700010	57	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Lizhou; Gisselman, Angela Spontelli; Tumilty, Steve								Thermal profiles over the Patella tendon in a cohort of non-injured collegiate athletes over the course of a cross-country season								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				47	52		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.04.034			JUL 2020	2020	Objectives: To determine normal temperatures over the Patella tendon over eleven weeks. Design: A prospective cohort study with eleven weeks of observation. Setting: University's Human Biomechanics and Physiology Laboratory. Participants: Male or female collegiate runners running at least 25 miles per week who did not report pain in the region of the Patella tendon over 11 weeks of data collection. Main outcome measures: Thermal images taken at the same time and day of the week, were used to measure the temperature of the skin over the Patella tendon. Results: Eighteen athletes were eligible for analysis. The mean temperature of the Patella tendon was 30.13 degrees C (SD = 1.51 degrees C). Patella tendon temperature changes over time were insignificant (right p = 0.66, left p = 0.90) with ICC right = 0.92, left = 0.94. Mean temperature difference side to side was 0.14 degrees C (SD = 0.60 degrees C). Mixed-model Linear regression for mean temperature differences found the effect of (i) time (t = 0.39, p = 0.70, df = 361) and (ii) side (t = -0.89, p = 0.38, df = 361) to be insignificant. Conclusions: This is the first report of normal thermal profiles of collegiate runners over an extended period. Temperature variation above 1.20 degrees C may represent an abnormal asymmetry in the running population. Variations in Patella tendon temperatures left to right, and over time were not significant. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Liu, Lizhou; Tumilty, Steve] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Sch Physiotherapy, POB 56, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand; [Gisselman, Angela Spontelli] High Point Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, High Point, NC USA; [Tumilty, Steve] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Sch Physiotherapy, POB 56, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700007	30	Article; Article		
J	Hall, Elliott C. R.; Larruskain, Jon; Gil, Susana M.; Lekue, Jose A.; Baumert, Philipp; Rienzi, Edgardo; Moreno, Sacha; Tannure, Marcio; Murtagh, Conall E.; Ade, Jack D.; Squires, Paul; Orme, Patrick; Anderson, Liam; Whitworth-Turner, Craig M.; Morton, James P.; Drust, Barry; Williams, Alun G.; Erskine, Robert M.								An injury audit in high-level male youth soccer players from English, Spanish, Uruguayan and Brazilian academies								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				53	60		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.04.033			JUL 2020	2020	Objectives: To identify the most common injury types/locations in high-level male youth soccer players (YSP). Design: Prospective cohort surveillance study. Setting: Professional soccer club academies. Participants: Six hundred and twenty-four high-level male YSP [Under 9 (U9) to U23 year-old age groups] from academies in England, Spain, Uruguay and Brazil. Main outcome measures: Injury type, location and severity were recorded during one season. Injury severity was compared between age groups, while injury type and location were compared between nations. Results: Four hundred and forty-three training or match injuries were recorded, giving an injury rate of 0.71 per player. Non-contact injuries were most common (58.5%), with most (44.2%) resolved between 8 and 28 days. Most injuries (75.4%) occurred in the lower limbs, with muscle (29.6%) the most commonly injured tissue. U14 and U16 suffered a greater number of severe injuries relative to U12 and U19/U20/ U23/Reserves. Tendon injury rate was higher in Brazil vs. Spain (p < 0.05), with low back/sacrum/pelvis injury rate highest in Spain (p < 0.05). Conclusions: The proportion of severe injuries in U14 and U16 suggests YSP injury risk is maturation-dependent. Minimal differences in type and location between high-level YSP from four different countries suggest injury rates in this population are geographically similar. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hall, Elliott C. R.; Baumert, Philipp; Murtagh, Conall E.; Ade, Jack D.; Anderson, Liam; Whitworth-Turner, Craig M.; Morton, James P.; Drust, Barry; Erskine, Robert M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool L3 3AF, Merseyside, England; [Larruskain, Jon; Lekue, Jose A.] Athlet Club, Med Serv, Lezama, Spain; [Gil, Susana M.] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Genet Phys Anthropol & Anim Physiol, Leioa, Spain; [Rienzi, Edgardo; Moreno, Sacha] Estadio Campeon Siglo, Club Atlet Penarol, Montevideo, Uruguay; [Tannure, Marcio] Clube Regatas Flamengo, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Murtagh, Conall E.; Ade, Jack D.; Squires, Paul] Liverpool Football Club, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Orme, Patrick] Bristol City Football Club, Bristol, Avon, England; [Anderson, Liam] Crewe Alexandra Football Club, Crewe, England; [Hall, Elliott C. R.; Williams, Alun G.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Williams, Alun G.; Erskine, Robert M.] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Erskine, Robert M.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool L3 3AF, Merseyside, England								36							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700008	31	Article; Article		
J	Hanzlikova, I; Athens, J.; Hebert-Losier, K.								Clinical implications of Landing Error Scoring System calculation methods								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				61	66		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.04.035			JUL 2020	2020	Objectives: To explore whether final Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) scores differ between calculation methods used in literature. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 328 individuals. Main outcome measures: LESS scores from 984 drop-jumps were extracted. Final LESS scores were calculated for every participant according to five methods: mean of 3 jumps, 1st jump score, 3rd jump score, best jump score, and sum of errors present in at least 2 jumps. The influence of the calculation method on group mean LESS score and group-level risk categorization using threshold of 5 errors was estimated using Generalized Estimating Equations, with the mean of 3 jumps score set as the reference method. The agreement in individual-level risk categorization was assessed using odds ratios and McNemar's tests. Results: Compared to the reference, estimated group mean LESS score was 0.92 errors lower (p < 0.001) using the best jump method, as was group-level risk categorization (odds ratio: 0.50, p < 0.001). Individual-level risk categorization between calculation methods was inconsistent for 8-15% of participants compared to the reference method, significantly different from reference for the best jump score method (p < 0.001). Conclusions: Calculation method meaningfully influences final LESS scores and risk categorization. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hanzlikova, I; Hebert-Losier, K.] Univ Waikato, Div Hlth Engn Comp & Sci, Te Huataki Waiora Sch Hlth, Adams Ctr High Performance, 52 Miro St, Mt Maunganui 3116, New Zealand; [Athens, J.] Univ Otago, Dept Prevent & Social Med, POB 56, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand; [Hanzlikova, I] Univ Waikato, Adams Ctr High Performance, 52 Miro St, Mt Maunganui 3116, New Zealand								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700009	34	Article; Article		
J	Sommerfield, Lesley M.; Harrison, Craig B.; Whatman, Chris S.; Maulder, Peter S.								A prospective study of sport injuries in youth females								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				24	32		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.04.005			JUL 2020	2020	Objectives: To examine sports and physical education (PE) injury rates in youth females during a school year and to investigate if an association exists between injury and phase of the menstrual cycle. Design: Prospective cohort. Setting: An online questionnaire was used to record training and competition exposure and self-reported injuries for 30-weeks. Participants: 103 PE students (12-15 years) from a girls' secondary school. Main outcome measures: Injury rates and prevalence of acute, gradual onset/overuse and substantial injuries. Results: On average, girls trained 3.4 h/week and competed 1 h/week. During the study, 74 participants reported 595 injuries. The average weekly prevalence of all injuries was 20.7% (95% CI: 20.0-21.3), of which 8.6% (95% CI: 8.3-9.0) were acute injuries and 12.0% (95% CI: 11.4-12.6) were gradual onset/ overuse injuries. The overall rate of sport and PE injuries was 10.4 injuries/1000 h of exposure. The most common acute injury involved the ankle (35%) while the most common gradual onset/overuse injury involved the knee (51%). There was no significant association between the stage of the menstrual cycle and the likelihood of injury (P = 0.18). Conclusion: The high number of injuries in this population of girls suggests preventative measures, particularly targeting the lower extremity, are needed. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sommerfield, Lesley M.; Harrison, Craig B.; Whatman, Chris S.; Maulder, Peter S.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, 17 Antares Pl, Auckland 0632, New Zealand; [Maulder, Peter S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Tristram St, Hamilton 3200, New Zealand; [Sommerfield, Lesley M.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Millennium Campus,17 Antares Pl, Auckland 0632, New Zealand								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700004	33	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich; Mendis, M. Dilani; Parker, Alexander; Grantham, Brittany; Stewart, Simon; Hides, Julie								Injury surveillance of an Australian community netball club								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				41	46		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.04.004			JUL 2020	2020	Objectives: To describe injuries associated with netball and risk factors for lower limb injuries. Design: Prospective study. In the preseason, risk factors were investigated using self-report questionnaires and physical measurements. During the season, injuries were reported using a standardised report, verified by follow-up phone calls. Player training and game hours were recorded. Setting: Australian community netball club. Participants: 269 players from 9 divisions, aged 7-42 years. Main outcome measures: Injury incidence rates per 1000 exposure hours were calculated. The most common mechanism, nature and consequence of injury were determined from frequencies. Logistic regression was used to identify predictors of lower limb injury and determine adjusted odds ratios for each risk factor. Results: 169 injuries occurred with a rate of 13.8/1000 exposure hours (95% CI 11.8-16.0), majority (60%) to the lower limb. The most frequent injury mechanisms were collisions (28%) and awkward landings (27%), nature was 'Inflammation/swelling' (32%) and consequence was 'unable to continue playing/ training' (50%). Previous history of injury (OR 6.9, 95% CI 3.7-13.0) and age greater than 13.5 years (OR 3.1, 95% CI 1.6-5.9) were significant risk factors for a season lower limb injury. Conclusion: Injury rates in this community netball club were high. Results suggest that further research regarding the implementation and effectiveness of injury prevention programs for community netballers is required. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich] Univ Queensland, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, St Lucia, Qld, Australia; [Mendis, M. Dilani; Grantham, Brittany; Hides, Julie] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Nathan Campus, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Parker, Alexander] Australian Catholic Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Allied Hlth, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Stewart, Simon] Mary MacKillop Inst Hlth Res, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Stewart, Simon] Torrens Univ Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich] Univ Queensland, St Lucia, Qld 4072, Australia								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700006	29	Article; Article		
J	Fawcett, Louise; Heneghan, Nicola R.; James, Steven; Rushton, Alison								Perceptions of low back pain in elite gymnastics: A multi-disciplinary qualitative focus group study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				33	40		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.04.003			JUL 2020	2020	Objectives: To explore the multidisciplinary team experience of Low Back Pain (LBP) in elite gymnastics. Design: A qualitative focus group. Setting: British Gymnastics. Participants: Ten coaching, sports science and medicine multidisciplinary team members working with British gymnasts. Main outcome measures: A topic guide informed by literature/expert opinion enabled discussion that was recorded/transcribed verbatim. Initial inductive analytic process developed theoretical insights. Manual coding using constant comparative methods categorised meaningful themes and sub-themes. Results: Two key aspects were identified. Emerging themes for LBP presentation included: early identification LBP and influence of multidisciplinary team members on outcomes; factors influencing LBP reporting e.g. coach-athlete relationship; frequent presentations of LBP and accepted norms; athlete history and physical examination e.g. training load. Emerging themes for causation of LBP included: intrinsic risk factors e.g. growth and maturation; extrinsic risk factors e.g. equipment. Conclusions: Individual responses of a gymnast to experiencing LBP were important across all themes. Some LBP was perceived as normal. The coach-athlete relationship and support team are crucial decision-makers around training load and adaptation. Early detection will help minimise time loss from training/performance to expedite healing. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Fawcett, Louise] Lilleshall Natl Sports Ctr, English Inst Sport, British Gymnast, Nr Newport, Shrops, England; [Heneghan, Nicola R.; James, Steven; Rushton, Alison] Univ Birmingham, Ctr Precis Rehabil Spinal Pain CPR Spine, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [James, Steven] Royal Orthopaed Hosp, Dept Radiol, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Rushton, Alison] Univ Birmingham, Ctr Precis Rehabil Spinal Pain CPR Spine, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700005	62	Article; Article		
J	Lord, Cameron; Blazevich, Anthony J.; Abbiss, Chris R.; Ma'ayah, Fadi								Reliability and Validity of Maximal Mean and Critical Speed and Metabolic Power in Australian Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				73	1			93	102		10.2478/hukin-2019-0135			JUL 2020	2020	The reliability and validity of maximal mean speed (MMS), maximal mean metabolic power (MMPmet), critical speed (CS) and critical metabolic power (CPmet) were examined throughout the 2016-2017 soccer National Youth League competitions. Global positioning system (GPS) data were collected from 20 sub-elite soccer players during a battery of maximal running tests and four home matches. A symmetric moving average algorithm was applied to the instantaneous velocity data using specific time windows (1, 5, 10, 60, 300 and 600 s) and peak values were identified. Additionally, CS and CP met values calculated from match data were compared to CS and CPmet values determined from previously validated field tests to assess the validity of match values. Intra-class correlation (one-way random absolute agreement) scores ranged from 0.577 to 0.902 for speed, and from 0.701 to 0.863 for metabolic power values. Coefficients of variation (CV) ranged from good to moderate for speed (4-6%) and metabolic power (4-8%). Only CS and CPmet values were significantly correlated (r = 0.842; 0.700) and not statistically different (p = 0.066; 0.271) to values obtained in a shuttle-running critical test. While the present findings identified match-derived MMS, MMPmet, CS and CPmet to be reliable, only CS and CPmet derived from match play were validated to a CS field test that required changes in speed and direction rather than continuous running. This suggests that both maximal mean and critical speed and metabolic power analyses could be alternatives to absolute distance and speed in the assessment of match running performance during competitive matches.		[Lord, Cameron; Blazevich, Anthony J.; Abbiss, Chris R.; Ma'ayah, Fadi] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res CESSR, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, Australia; [Ma'ayah, Fadi] Curtin Univ, Sch Educ, Bentley, WA, Australia; [Ma'ayah, Fadi] GPO Box U19876845, Perth, WA, Australia								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000575092700009	25	Article; Article		
J	Pontillo, Marisa; Sennett, Brian J.								Profile of upper extremity strength and function in division 1 collegiate athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				44				8	13		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.03.003			JUL 2020	2020	Objectives: To profile shoulder strength and functional test scores in collegiate athletes across various sports. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Pre-participation physical screens for varsity athletes at a Division I university. Participants: 476 healthy Division 1 collegiate athletes (270 males; 27 varsity sports). Main outcome measures: Two trials of each 1. Isometric peak force (PF) using hand-held dynamometry for shoulder internal rotation (IR), external rotation (ER), and forward elevation (FE) in kg; 2. Closed Kinetic Chain Upper Extremity Stability Test (CKCUEST), quantified by number of touches. Results: PF values (mean(SD), dominant/non-dominant) for females were: IR = 8.7(2.6)/8.7(6.2); ER = 8.2(2.5)/7.9(2.5); FE = 8.0(2.5)/8.0(2.7); CKCUEST scores were 21.8(3.9). PF values for males were: IR = 12.0(3.8)/11.9(3.6); ER = 10.7(3.4)/10.7(3.5); FE = 10.7(3.5)/10.4 (3.5); CKCUEST scores were 26.0(4.1) touches. Conclusions: Normative values should be used as an athlete's baseline for the CKCUEST. This may help target athletes who are at a higher risk of upper extremity injury and help with goals or return to sport readiness during the rehabilitation process. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Pontillo, Marisa; Sennett, Brian J.] Univ Penn, Penn Sports Med Ctr, 235 S 33rd St,Ste 1, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Pontillo, Marisa] Univ Penn, Penn Sports Med Ctr, 235 S 33rd St,Ste 1, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542987700002	22	Article; Article		
J	Martino, Elio; Fisher, James P.; Wink, Brian; Smith, Dave; Steele, James								"Lift Big-Get Big": The Impact of Images of Hyper-Muscular Bodies and Training Information								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			500	513		10.1080/02701367.2020.1752357			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: It has been suggested that the media influence beliefs regarding ideal body appearance and drive for muscularity whilst also offering recommendations for achieving this; most commonly heavy load free weight resistance training (RT). However, evidence for media effects are inconsistent in the literature. This study investigated this "lift big-get big" culture and effects of imagery on males' beliefs regarding RT.Method: An online survey was conducted with male participants (N = 110) randomized to different images (hyper-muscular/lean/control) and RT information ("lift big-get big"/"evidence based RT"/control).Results: Descriptive data suggested belief in necessity of heavy loads and free weights was pervasive. There was a small significant effect of condition for multivariate analysis of beliefs regarding RT. Univariate analyses showed significant effects of condition regarding the importance of free weights and heavy loads for strength, and free weights for hypertrophy. Small to moderate effects were found comparing "evidence-based RT" with a hyper-muscular physique to "lift big-get big" conditions with both hyper-muscular and lean physiques, the latter more likely to agree free weights and heavy loads are necessary for strength. A small effect was found comparing "lift big-get big" conditions with both hyper-muscular and lean physiques and the control condition, the former more likely to agree free weights are necessary for hypertrophy.Conclusions: Although hyper-muscular bodies alone did not influence RT beliefs, new information, i.e., "evidence-based RT" combined with a hyper-muscular physique had a small effect. The "lift big-get big" culture is perhaps pervasive enough that most conditions merely reinforced existing beliefs.		[Martino, Elio; Fisher, James P.; Wink, Brian; Steele, James] Southampton Solent Univ, Southampton, Hants, England; [Smith, Dave; Steele, James] Ukact Res Inst, London, England; [Smith, Dave] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Fisher, James P.] Solent Univ, East Pk Terrace, Southampton SO14 0YN, Hants, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547414500001	66	Article; Article		
J	Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Rey, Ezequiel; Memmert, Daniel								Analysis of Physical and Technical Performance of Substitute Players in Professional Soccer								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	4			599	606		10.1080/02701367.2020.1755414			OCT 2 2021	2021	Current soccer scientific literature is scarce with regard to examining the technical performance of substitute players.Purpose: This study aimed to analyze the physical and technical performance of substitute players versus those who completed the entire match or were replaced and also examine the performance of substitutes across different playing positions.Method: The sample was composed of 6,631 match observations from 431 professional soccer players competing in the German Bundesliga during the season 2018-2019. These observations were divided into three groups: entire match (n= 3,807), replaced (n= 1,412), and substitutes (n= 1,412). Linear mixed models were adjusted to compare the performance of the three groups independently of playing position and separately for each position (central defenders, fullbacks, central midfielders, wide midfielders, and attackers).Results: Substitute players showed higher total distance covered (effect sizes [ES]: 0.99-1.06), number of sprints (ES: 0.60-0.64), and number of fast runs (ES: 0.83-0.91) relative to playing time than replaced and entire match players. The differences in technical performance between groups varied according to playing position. Substitute central defenders showed less possession (ES: 0.39-0.41), touches (ES: 0.47-0.57), and passes (ES: 0.54-0.59) but higher defensive performance (ES: 0.51-0.54) than replaced and entire match players. Substitutes in midfield and attack positions displayed more possession (ES: 0.22-0.47), touches (ES: 0.27-0.37), and shots (ES: 0.22-0.28) than replaced and entire match players.Conclusion: This study has shown that substitutes are able to improve the performance of the players who completed the entire match or were replaced in both physical and some technical variables depending on playing position.		[Lorenzo-Martinez, Miguel; Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Pontevedra, Spain; [Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Padron-Cabo, Alexis] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								48							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000549643300001	36	Article; Article		
J	Magal, Meir; Liette, Nicole C.; Crowley, Shannon K.; Hoffman, Jay R.; Thomas, Kathleen S.								Sex-Based Performance Responses to an Acute Sprint Interval Cycling Training Session in Collegiate Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			469	476		10.1080/02701367.2020.1751026			JUL 3 2021	2021	There are limited data pertaining to the effects of sex on sprint interval cycling (SIC) training session performance.Purpose: We investigated sex-based differences on sprint interval cycling (SIC) performance in collegiate soccer players.Methods: Twelve men and twelve women completed two identical lab trials, 7-14 days apart. The first lab session served as familiarization, "dry run," trial. Reported data were collected and analyzed during the second, "testing" SIC training trial. Each SIC training session was comprised of a warm-up, at 50 revolutions per min (RPM) with no resistance, and six repeated 30-s Wingate Anaerobic Tests (WAnT) separated by a 4-min recovery period between each sprint.Results: Significant (P <= .05) sex differences were observed in peak power (PP), peak power relative to body mass (RPP), mean power (MP), mean power relative to body mass (RMP) but not in peak power relative to fat free mass (FFMPP). When WAnT bouts 2-6 were expressed as %Delta of WAnT1, there were no significant (P> .05) differences between the sexes across all performance variables. Further, Cohen'sdstatistics demonstrated only trivial and small effect size between the groups. Average HR and RPE were not significantly (P> .05) different between the sexes. Correlational analysis revealed a significant (P <= .05) relationship between FFM, and PP and MP.Conclusion: Although overall performance may be affected by a number of physiological mechanisms, the results of the current study indicate that differences between men and women soccer players performing SIC training, are likely attributed to differences in body composition.		[Magal, Meir; Liette, Nicole C.; Crowley, Shannon K.] North Carolina Wesleyan Coll, Rocky Mount, NC 27804 USA; [Hoffman, Jay R.] Ariel Univ, Ariel, Israel; [Thomas, Kathleen S.] Norfolk State Univ, Norfolk, VA USA; [Magal, Meir] North Carolina Wesleyan Coll, Sch Math & Sci, 3400 North Wesleyan Blvd, Rocky Mount, NC 27804 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000549470800001	45	Article; Article		
J	Leal del Ojo, Pureza; Floria, Pablo; Harrison, Andrew J.; Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo								Effects of task difficulty on centre of pressure excursion and its inter-trial variability in acrobatic gymnastics pyramid performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	7			890	905		10.1080/14763141.2020.1770322			JUL 3 2023	2023	Despite the importance of balance in Acrobatic Gymnastic Pyramid performance, there is limited biomechanical analysis of balance during this activity. The aims of this study were to analyse the effect of pyramid difficulty on the centre of pressure (COP) excursion and its inter-trial variability, and determine which parameters had strongest relationship with performance. Forty-seven acrobatic gymnasts performed five trials of back and front pyramids and a third more difficult, handstand pyramid on a force platform. Pyramids were held for 7 seconds and surface area, range, mediolateral amplitude and anteroposterior amplitude of the CoP were examined to analyse balance. The pyramid scores were obtained from qualified judges to assess the performance. Results showed higher CoP excursions and inter-trial variability during the execution of the high difficulty pyramid. Higher judges' scores were associated with lower CoP excursions in all the pyramids regardless of the difficulty. Similarly, correlation between inter-trial variability and pyramid performance was observed, although these coefficients were lower than those reported for the relationship between CoP excursion and performance. These results suggested that CoP monitoring could help coaches and gymnasts to assess the pyramid instability more accurately.		[Leal del Ojo, Pureza] San Isidoro Univ Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Floria, Pablo; Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain; [Harrison, Andrew J.] Univ Limerick, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland; [Gomez-Landero, Luis Arturo] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Phys Performance & Sports Res Ctr, Seville, Spain								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547762400001	43	Article; Article		
J	Elvira, Jose L. L.; Mateo-March, Manuel; Zabala, Mikel; Blasco-Lafarga, Cristina								The use of accelerometry to evaluate the BMX cycling starting hill. Effect of the Q-Ring™ on the acceleration profile								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	7			906	920		10.1080/14763141.2020.1770323			JUL 3 2023	2023	Accelerometers are becoming popular in sport performance, as they are easy to wear, affordable, and usable in the field. Eccentric chainrings have been commercialised to improve pedalling performance, but little is known about their possible effects in the first pedal strokes (PS) of maximal sprint starts. To analyse the effects of the Q-Ring chainring (Q) on pedalling mechanics and performance in the BMX starting hill, 12 Spanish-National-Team BMX athletes performed 3 maximal sprints comparing Q vs No-Q. Time was measured in the first three meters. Acceleration output was registered with a triaxial 6 g accelerometer (200 Hz) in the first four PS. Discrete time, acceleration and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) were used to compare between conditions. Q showed no improvement in performance, despite a force-application time increasing (p = 0.013, ES = 0.39) and a reduction in the dead spot time (p = 0.028, ES = -0.73). Time after the four PS was greater (p = 0.006, ES = 0.63), and 3-m time did not change. Likewise, SPM 1D comparison showed no differences along the four PS. Therefore, accelerometry confirms its potential to evaluate pedalling technique in BMX, where Q-Ring fails to improve the pedalling mechanics in the starting hill.		[Elvira, Jose L. L.] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sport Sci, Elche, Spain; [Mateo-March, Manuel] Spanish Cycling Federat, UIRFIDE Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Mateo-March, Manuel] Spanish Cycling Federat, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Zabala, Mikel] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Blasco-Lafarga, Cristina] Univ Valencia, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Valencia, Spain; [Mateo-March, Manuel] Spanish Cycling Federat, UIRFIDE Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Mateo-March, Manuel] Spanish Cycling Federat, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Madrid, Spain								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547756600001	41	Article; Article		
J	Happ, Elisabeth; Scholl-Grissemann, Ursula; Peters, Mike; Schnitzer, Martin								Insights into customer experience in sports retail stores								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	2			312	329		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2019-0137			APR 6 2021	2021	Purpose Offline retail stores have been working on improving their in-store customer experience; they have begun to realise the physical advantage they have over online channels. Especially sports products have a number of unique features, such as high emotional involvement or a sense of community; additionally, sports customers put emphasis on multisensory brand experience at the point of sale. This study examines the in-store customer experience (ISCX) in offline sports retail stores, taking into account the commercial uniqueness of sport. Design/methodology/approach A qualitative study (focus groups;n = 16) and quantitative survey (cross-sectional survey design;n = 238) were conducted to measure ISCX in sports retail stores. Findings The results suggest that the customers' in-store experience has a significant influence on customers' satisfaction with the sports retailer and their likeliness to recommend the store to friends, which, in turn, is significantly affected by customers' satisfaction with the retailer. Moreover, social responses to actors involved in the service encounter, for example, the interaction with employees, play a significant role for the customer in-store experience. Accordingly, sports customers strive not only for functional benefits inherent in the interaction with customers and employees but also for social benefits. Originality/value This study extends the knowledge by (1) replicating the ISCX scale, (2) analysing ISCX in a sports retail environment and (3) examining the influence of ISCX on the Net Promoter Score. Moreover, the findings support managers' know-how about in-store setting and help to maintain the customer relationship.		[Happ, Elisabeth; Schnitzer, Martin] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Scholl-Grissemann, Ursula] Private Univ Schloss Seeburg, Salzburg, Austria; [Peters, Mike] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Strateg Management Mkt & Tourism, Innsbruck, Austria; [Happ, Elisabeth] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000544310900001	85	Article; Article		
J	Szymanski, Stefan; Drut, Bastien								The Private Benefit of Public Funding: The FIFA World Cup, UEFA European Championship, and Attendance at Host Country League Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	7			723	745	1527002520923701	10.1177/1527002520923701			OCT 2020	2020	This article examines attendance at league soccer matches before and after hosting an international soccer competition (the FIFA World Cup or the UEFA European Championships). We find significant increases in attendance at clubs that host games in these tournaments. We find smaller but often significant increases in attendance at other league clubs, suggesting that these events may drive fan interest. However, these results are patchy, and for some recent tournaments, they are negative. Our estimates of the private economic value of hosting, even in the most optimistic cases, are smaller than the cost of hosting as reported for recent tournaments.		[Szymanski, Stefan] Univ Michigan, Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Drut, Bastien] Univ Paris Ouest Nanterre Def, Nanterre, France; [Szymanski, Stefan] Univ Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								7							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000542683100001	36	Article; Article		
J	Nagahara, Ryu; Murata, Munenori								Inertial measurement unit based knee flexion strength-power test for sprinters								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			738	744	1747954120937374	10.1177/1747954120937374			DEC 2020	2020	This study aimed to examine whether sprinting performance would be associated with knee flexion strength-power capabilities measured using a recently developed inertial measurement unit (IMU) based system. Sixteen male sprinters performed 60-m sprints and the IMU based knee flexion strength-power test which consisted of five serial knee flexion-extension motions in three conditions (unweighted, 0.75 or 1.5 kg ankle weighted) for both legs. Spatiotemporal variables during sprinting for a 50-m distance were obtained using a long force platform system. The knee flexion joint kinetic variables during the knee flexion strength-power test were collected using one IMU. Running acceleration during the entire sprinting was positively correlated with the knee flexion positive work measured using the unweighted right knee flexion strength-power test (r = .521-.721). Moreover, step frequencies at the 13th-16th, 17th-20th and 21st-22nd step sections and during the entire sprint were positively correlated with the knee flexion positive work measured using the unweighted right knee flexion strength-power test (r = .506-.566), while step length did not show any correlations with the knee flexion strength-power test variables. The results demonstrate that the greater right knee flexion strength-power capabilities measured using IMU based method in the unweighted condition are advantageous for better sprinting performance through higher step frequency. The IMU-based knee flexion strength-power test in the right leg unweighted condition will likely be useful for physical fitness evaluation of sprinters on the field setting.		[Nagahara, Ryu; Murata, Munenori] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, 1 Shiromizu Cho, Kanoya, Kagoshima 8912393, Japan; [Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, 1 Shiromizu Cho, Kanoya, Kagoshima 8912393, Japan								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000552767600001	25	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Hernandez, Jorge M.; Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro; Janicijevic, Danica; Tufano, James J.; Marquez, Gonzalo; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								Effect of different interset rest intervals on mean velocity during the squat and bench press exercises								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	7			834	847		10.1080/14763141.2020.1766102			JUL 3 2023	2023	This study aimed to compare the effect of three interset rest intervals (1, 3, and 5 minutes) on (I) mean velocity during a resistance training session conducted in a Smith machine with the squat and bench press exercises, and (II) the pre- and post-exercise force-velocity relationship. Fifteen male university students completed three sessions (i.e., Rest 1MODIFIER LETTER PRIME, Rest 3MODIFIER LETTER PRIME, and Rest 5MODIFIER LETTER PRIME) consisting of three sets of five repetitions against the 10RM load during the squat and bench press exercises. The force-velocity relationship (maximal values of force [F-0], velocity [v(0)], and power [P-max]) was evaluated at the beginning and at the end of each session with the countermovement jump and bench press throw exercises. During training, mean velocity was slower in sets 2 and 3 of the Rest 1MODIFIER LETTER PRIME protocol compared to Rest 3MODIFIER LETTER PRIME and Rest 5MODIFIER LETTER PRIME, but no significant differences were present between Rest 3MODIFIER LETTER PRIME and Rest 5MODIFIER LETTER PRIME. After training, there was a significant decrease inF(0)(p= 0.017) and P-max(p= 0.010), but not inv(0)(p= 0.259). These results support the Rest 3MODIFIER LETTER PRIME as the most time-efficient protocol, among those analysed, for the maintenance of high mean velocities during training sessions not leading to failure.		[Gonzalez-Hernandez, Jorge M.; Marquez, Gonzalo] Catholic Univ San Antonio UCAM, Fac Sport, Neuromove Res Grp, Murcia, Spain; [Gonzalez-Hernandez, Jorge M.] European Univ Canarias, Fac Hlth Sci, La Orotava, Spain; [Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sports Studies, Alcorcon, Spain; [Janicijevic, Danica] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Res Ctr, Belgrade, Serbia; [Tufano, James J.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Gonzalez-Hernandez, Jorge M.] Catholic Univ San Antonio UCAM, Fac Sport, Neuromove Res Grp, Murcia, Spain; [Gonzalez-Hernandez, Jorge M.] European Univ Canarias, Fac Hlth Sci, La Orotava, Spain								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547757400001	34	Article; Article		
J	Pritchard, Hayden J.; Keogh, Justin W.; Winwood, Paul W.								Tapering practices of elite CrossFit athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			753	761	1747954120934924	10.1177/1747954120934924			DEC 2020	2020	This is the first study to document the training and tapering practices of elite CrossFit athletes. Seventy-two CrossFit athletes (39 females, 33 males) (mean +/- SD; 26.5 +/- 3.6 y, 167.1 +/- 9.5 cm, 74.5 +/- 12.7 kg, 12.8 +/- 6.5 y general training, 5.4 +/- 1.7 y CrossFit training) who competed at the "Regionals" level or higher in the 2018 CrossFit Games season completed a self-reported 5-page online survey. Almost all athletes (98.6%) tapered before important competitions. Taper length was 5.4 +/- 2.7 days, with the step and linear tapering styles being most commonly utilised. Strength training volume peaked 5.1 +/- 4.6 weeks before competition, whereas conditioning training volume peaked 4.0 +/- 4.4 weeks before competition. Strength training intensity peaked 3.1 +/- 2.4 weeks before competition, whereas conditioning training intensity peaked 2.8 +/- 2.2 weeks before competition. Almost all athletes (90.0%) reduced training duration during tapering, but changes to frequency and intensity were mixed. Training volume decreased by 41.2 +/- 15.5% during the taper, all training ceased 2.0 +/- 1.1 days before competition. Tapering was performed to achieve peak performance, recover (physically and psychologically), and reduce feelings of fatigue. Poor results from tapering were experienced when athletes tapered for too long or insufficiently. This observational data may be valuable for coaches and athletes engaged in CrossFit as well as other sports with concurrent training and competition demands.		[Pritchard, Hayden J.] Universal Coll Learning, Fac Hlth Sci, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Keogh, Justin W.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Southport, Qld, Australia; [Keogh, Justin W.; Winwood, Paul W.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Keogh, Justin W.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Fac Sci Hlth Educ & Engn, Cluster Hlth Improvement, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Keogh, Justin W.] Manipal Acad Higher Educ, Kasturba Med Coll, Manipal, Karnataka, India; [Winwood, Paul W.] Toi Ohomai Inst Technol, Fac Hlth Educ & Environm, Dept Sport & Fitness, Tauranga, New Zealand; [Pritchard, Hayden J.] UCOL Exercise & Sport Sci, Corner King & Princess St, Palmerston North 4442, New Zealand								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000542409600001	25	Article; Article		
J	Novak, Andrew R.; Bennett, Kyle J. M.; Pluss, Matthew A.; Fransen, Job								Performance analysis in esports: modelling performance at the 2018 League of Legends World Championship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			809	817	1747954120932853	10.1177/1747954120932853			DEC 2020	2020	Performance analysis is a well-established discipline in sports science, supported by decades of research. Comparatively, performance analysis in electronic sports (esports) is limited. Therefore, there is an opportunity to accelerate performance outcomes in esports by applying methods grounded in sports science. This study adopted a coach-centred approach to model performance at the 2018 League of Legends World Championship. Three expert coaches rated the proposed relationship between 43 variables and match outcomes in professional League of Legends competition using a Likert scale (1-10). The Likert scale was anchored with 'no relationship' at 1 and 'very strong relationship' at 10. The coaches' median ratings were calculated for each variable. Variables with a median score >= 6 were retained for analyses. A total of 14 variables were collected from the 2018 League of Legends World Championship (n = 119) matches via video annotations and match histories. Generalized Linear Mixed Effects Models with binomial logit link function were implemented with respect to theBlue Sidewinning or losing the match, and individual teams were specified as random effects. Variables were screened for multicollinearity before using a step-up approach. The best model of performance includedTower Percentage(p = 0.006) andNumber of Inhibitors(p = 0.029). This model achieved classification accuracy of 95.8%. WhileTower PercentageandNumber of Inhibitorscontributed to winning or losing, further research is required to determine effective strategies to improve these variables, to understand the relevance of these variables across the complete time-series of the match, and to determine whether performance indicators remain stable across game updates.		[Novak, Andrew R.; Pluss, Matthew A.; Fransen, Job] Univ Technol Sydney, Fac Hlth, Human Performance Res Ctr, Sport & Exercise Sci, Moore Pk, Australia; [Novak, Andrew R.] Rugby Australia, High Performance Dept, Moore Pk, Australia; [Bennett, Kyle J. M.] Southern Cross Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Coffs Harbour, Australia; [Novak, Andrew R.] Univ Technol Sydney, Human Performance Res Ctr, Moore Pk, NSW 2021, Australia								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000542286500001	20	Article; Article		
J	Kawabata, Koichi; Urata, Tatsuya; Fukuda, Koji; Tanabe, Satoru								Time analysis of throwing motions to second base by baseball catchers: Comparison of three throwing motions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			677	684	1747954120930370	10.1177/1747954120930370			DEC 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to investigate a baseball catcher's throwing time to second base using three throwing motion types. The subjects were professional (n = 4) and college (n = 12) baseball catchers. Two high-speed cameras were set to capture the throwing motion, while one was set to capture the net on second base. The throwing time of quick throw (throwing motion to release the ball immediately after catching the ball rather than usual throwing motion) was significantly shorter than those of usual throw (throwing motion used during games and practice) and fast ball throw (throwing motion to increase the ball velocity than usual throwing motion). From this result, it became clear that quick throw is the optimal throwing motion when judged by time. Thus, with respect to correlations between variables, there were significant positive correlations between throwing and motion times (usual throw:r = 0.760; fast ball throw:r = 0.719; quick throw:r = 0.767), and between throwing and airborne times (usual throw:r = 0.784; fast ball throw:r = 0.744; quick throw:r = 0.806), for all three throwing motions. However, negative correlations were shown between throwing and release times in usual throw and fast ball throw. The results suggest that, to shorten the throwing time, it is necessary to shorten the hold and stride times and to improve the ability to throw the ball as fast as possible with a shorter motion time.		[Kawabata, Koichi] Wakayama Med Univ, Med Ctr Hlth Promot & Sports Sci, Wakayama, Japan; [Urata, Tatsuya] Kobe Univ Welf, Dept Hlth Sport & Commun, Fukuzaki Town, Hyogo, Japan; [Fukuda, Koji] Univ Hyogo, Sch Human Sci & Environm, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Tanabe, Satoru] Kindai Univ, Fac Business Adm, Osaka, Japan; [Kawabata, Koichi] 2252 Nakanoshima, Wakayama, Wakayama Prefec 6408392, Japan								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000542390900001	18	Article; Article		
J	Li, Pingwei; Weissensteiner, Juanita R.; Pion, Johan; De Bosscher, Veerle								Predicting elite success: Evidence comparing the career pathways of top 10 to 300 professional tennis players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			793	802	1747954120935828	10.1177/1747954120935828			DEC 2020	2020	The aim of this research was to explore at what age professional tennis players at different ranking levels (top 10, 11-20, 21-50, 51-100, 101-200, 201-300) started playing tennis and had achieved their career ranking milestones, and to explore the viability of using age and ranking to predict a player's future success. 373 top 300 ranked professional tennis players from 2010 to 2018, including 193 females (M = 32.3, SD = 3.5) and 180 males (M = 34.0, SD = 3.1) were examined. Descriptive methods and univariate analyses were used to compare player developmental trajectories by player peak ranking levels. Discriminant analyses were applied to explore to what extent age and early ranking milestones can be used to predict a player's future peak rankings. Results revealed that there were no significant differences regarding the age at which players started playing tennis by players' career peak ranking levels. Results showed that 75% of the top 300 players started playing tennis between the ages of 3 to 7 years, whilst 21% started between 7 to 10 years, and 4% started later between 10 to 13 years. Results further showed that professional rankings between 14 and 18 years were not reliable in predicting a player's future ranking. Closer analyses revealed that age and early rankings have a relatively high value in "predicting" the ranking of higher-ranked (e.g., top 10) and lower-ranked (e.g., top 201-300) players, but not middle-ranked players (i.e. top 11-200), with nearly 60% of them not correctly classified and the top 51-100 ranked players having the lowest predictability.		[Li, Pingwei; De Bosscher, Veerle] Vrije Univ Brussel, Movement & Sport Sci, Brussels, Belgium; [Weissensteiner, Juanita R.] New South Wales Off Sport, Sect Performance, Talent Pathways, Sydney Olymp Pk, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Pion, Johan] HAN Univ Appl Sci, Sport & Exercise Studies, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Pion, Johan] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Li, Pingwei] Vrije Univ Brussel, Pl Laan 2, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000542278200001	34	Article; Article		
J	Drewes, V; Neumann, N.; Konstantinidis, I; Helmich, I								Spontaneous head movements characterize losing athletes during competition								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	5-6			669	676	1747954120934598	10.1177/1747954120934598			DEC 2020	2020	Nonverbal movement behavior and emotions are closely linked processes; however, it exists insufficient information about the spontaneous nonverbal expressions in response to experiencing positive and negative emotion, i.e., when winning or losing during sport competitions. Previous research showed that experienced tennis athletes detected losing behavior in athletes more accurately than winning behavior. However, it remained unclear what kind of nonverbal movements characterized losers because the actual movements have not been identified yet. Further research showed that head shaking occurred as an expression of doubt whereas head nodding appeared during successful actions. We therefore hypothesized that losing athletes nonverbally move more, and particularly execute more headshakes when compared to winners. The entire spontaneous nonverbal head movement behavior of professional tennis athletes was video-taped between points during competition and analyzed by two trained and certified raters using a standardized analysis system for nonverbal behavior in relation to won or lost points. The results showed that losers moved their head significantly more often, particularly executing morephasic upward,repetitive sideward(head shaking), andphasic sidewardhead movements when compared to winning athletes. The present results provide evidence that spontaneous nonverbal head movements differentiate winners from losers during competition. Losing a point in tennis is associated to increased spontaneous head movement behavior, particularly in upward and sideward directions. Thus, we conclude that professional tennis athletes cannot inhibit their implicit nonverbal expressions that are related to negative emotions when losing.		[Drewes, V; Neumann, N.; Konstantinidis, I; Helmich, I] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Neurol Psychosomat Med & Psychiat, Inst Hlth Promot & Clin Movement Sci, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Helmich, I] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Neurol Psychosomat Med & Psychiat, Inst Hlth Promot & Clin Movement Sci, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000542373700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Janicijevic, Danica; Cobo-Font, Juande; Marcos-Frutos, Daniel; Fernandes, John F. T.; Taube, Wolfgang; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro								Knowledge of results during vertical jump testing: an effective method to increase the performance but not the consistency of vertical jumps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	7			798	810		10.1080/14763141.2020.1764090			JUL 3 2023	2023	This study aimed to determine whether the provision of jump height feedback (knowledge of result; KR) can increase the performance and the consistency of output variables. In a randomised order, sixteen participants performed six squat or countermovement jumps (three from a 90o knee angle and three from a self-preferred knee angle) with or without KR over four sessions. The provision of KR significantly increased peak force (p = 0.046, 1.83%), mean force (p = 0.037, 1.45%), peak velocity (p < 0.001, 3.71%), mean velocity (p = 0.004, 3.44%), peak power (p < 0.001, 4.22%) and mean power (p = 0.001, 4.69%). A high within-session reliability was observed for all variables (coefficient of variation [CV] <= 5.62%, intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC] >= 0.95). No systematic differences in reliability were detected between the jumps performed without KR (CV = 3.00 +/- 1.38%, ICC = 0.97 +/- 0.03) and with KR (CV = 3.04 +/- 1.49%, ICC = 0.97 +/- 0.04). These results suggest that the provision of jump height feedback during vertical jump testing is effective to enhance vertical jump performance but it does not reduce the variability between jumps.		[Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Cobo-Font, Juande; Marcos-Frutos, Daniel; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Conception, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Janicijevic, Danica] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Res Ctr, Belgrade, Serbia; [Fernandes, John F. T.] Hartpury Univ, Sport Exercise & Well Being Arena, Hartpury, England; [Taube, Wolfgang] Univ Fribourg, Dept Neurosci & Movement Sci, Fribourg, Switzerland; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Conception, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000548456900001	35	Article; Article		
J	Stenroth, Lauri; Vartiainen, Paavo; Karjalainen, Pasi A.								Force-velocity profiling in ice hockey skating: reliability and validity of a simple, low-cost field method								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	7			874	889		10.1080/14763141.2020.1770321			JUL 3 2023	2023	In recent years, a simple method for force-velocity (F-v) profiling, based on split times, has emerged as a potential tool to examine mechanical variables underlying running sprint performance in field conditions. In this study, the reliability and concurrent validity of F-v profiling based on split times were examined when used for ice hockey skating. It was also tested how a modification of the method, in which the start instant of the sprint is estimated based on optimisation (time shift method), affects the reliability and validity of the method. Both intra- and inter-rater reliability were markedly improved when using the time shift method (approximately 50% decrease in the standard error of measurement). Moreover, the results calculated using the time shift method highly correlated (r > 0.83 for all variables) with the results calculated from a continuously tracked movement of the athlete, which was considered here as the reference method. This study shows that a modification to the previously published simple method for F-v profiling improves intra- and inter-rater reliability of the method in ice hockey skating. The time shift method tested here can be used as a reliable tool to test a player's physical performance characteristic underlying sprint performance in ice hockey skating.		[Stenroth, Lauri; Vartiainen, Paavo; Karjalainen, Pasi A.] Univ Eastern Finland, Dept Appl Phys, Kuopio, Finland; [Stenroth, Lauri] Univ Eastern Finland, Dept Appl Phys, Kuopio, Finland								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544909600001	17	Article; Article		
J	Band, Shani Svorai; Pantanowitz, Michal; Funk, Shany; Waddington, Gordon; Steinberg, Nili								Factors associated with musculoskeletal injuries in an infantry commanders course								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			81	91		10.1080/00913847.2020.1780098			JAN 2 2021	2021	Objectives To evaluate the prevalence of injuries among young combat soldiers as assessed and reported by the military physicians, and to investigate whether parameters such as anthropometric measures, postural balance, proprioceptive ability, and chronic ankle instability are related to injuries during and following an infantry commanders course. Methods In this cross-sectional study, 165 soldiers were tested for anthropometric measurements, proprioceptive ability, and dynamic postural balance (DPB), as well as for their responses to an ankle stability questionnaire (CAIT), on three occasions: pre-course, middle-course, and end-course testing. All musculoskeletal injuries were assessed and recorded in the digital medical file of each participant by specialist military physiciansbeforeandduring/followingthe course. Results Ninety-eight soldiers (59.4%) were injured before the course. Forty soldiers (24.2%) incurred an injury during/following the course (with 33 out of the 40 [82.5%] soldiers that were injured during/following the course having also been injured before the course). Sixty soldiers had no injury before/during/following the course. A survival curve showed that half of the soldiers who were injured during/following the course (20 soldiers) were recorded as injured in the first half of the course (during the first 46 days of the 92-day course). Logistic regression showed that the pre-course parameters that were significant among injured soldiers compared with the non-injured soldiers were: low CAIT results (OR = 2.736, 95% CI = 1.178-6.354), high BMI (OR = 1.234, 95% CI = 1.082-1.406) and reduced proprioceptive ability (OR =.858, 95% CI =.797-.924). Conclusion With a high prevalence of soldiers injured during and following a commanders course, a somatosensory intervention program should be generalized into the practical daily preparation and training routines of the soldiers for improving somatosensory abilities, optimizing military physical readiness, and for preventing future musculoskeletal injuries.		[Band, Shani Svorai] Israel Def Forces, Mil Med Corps, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Pantanowitz, Michal; Steinberg, Nili] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Wingate Coll Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Netanya, Israel; [Funk, Shany] Israel Def Forces, Doctrine & Res Branch, Combat Fitness Dept, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Waddington, Gordon] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Steinberg, Nili] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Wingate Acad Coll, Netanya, Israel								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000545844100001	65	Article; Article		
J	Solow, John L.; Krautmann, Anthony C.								Do You Get What You Pay for? Salary and Ex Ante Player Value in Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	7			705	722	1527002520930259	10.1177/1527002520930259			OCT 2020	2020	The last few years have seen a resurgence of very long, very expensive guaranteed contracts in Major League Baseball. Commentators who examine the outcomes of earlier long-term contracts generally conclude that teams greatly overpay in these situations. These assessments suffer from the use of perfect hindsight, however. In this article, we estimate the economic gain that could be anticipated at the time of signing of a contract. We forecast the player's expected future productivity in terms of winning based on recent performance at the time of the contract signing and adjusted for player aging. We translate this expected performance into a stream of expected marginal revenues using estimates of the team-specific value of a marginal win and discount these to present value at the time of signing. The economic cost of the contract to the team is measured by the discounted stream of guaranteed future salaries across the contract horizon. Comparing these benefits and costs indicates that teams overpay on average and more so for longer contracts. Some part of this is likely explained by benefits beyond the effect of games won.		[Solow, John L.] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Econ, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Krautmann, Anthony C.] Depaul Univ, Dept Econ, 1 E Jackson Blvd, Chicago, IL 60604 USA; [Krautmann, Anthony C.] Depaul Univ, Dept Econ, 1 E Jackson Blvd, Chicago, IL 60604 USA								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000542336300001	24	Article; Article		
J	van Der Merwe, Carla; Shultz, Sarah P.; Colborne, G. Robert; Fink, Philip W.								Foot Muscle Strengthening and Lower Limb Injury Prevention								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			380	387		10.1080/02701367.2020.1739605			JUL 3 2021	2021	Background and objectives: The active and passive structures of the foot act in unison to not only be compliant enough to assist in ground reaction force attenuation but also resist deformation to provide a stable base of support. A foot that is unable to adjust to the imposed demands during high-intensity sporting activities may alter the moments and forces acting on the joints, increasing the risk of non-contact anterior cruciate ligament ruptures (ACLR) and lateral ankle sprains (LAS). Prophylactic strengthening programs are often used to reduce the risk of these injuries, but at present, very few prophylactic programs include foot-specific strengthening strategies. The aim of this theoretical review is to ascertain the prophylactic role strengthening muscles acting on the foot may have on ACLR and LAS injury risk.Methods: Literature relating to risk factors associated with ACLR and LAS injury and the anatomy and biomechanics of normal foot function was searched. In addition, ACLR and LAS injury prevention programs were also sought. A theoretical, narrative approach was followed to synthesize the information gathered from the articles.Results: The foot segments are governed by the congruity of the articulations and the activity of the foot muscles. As such, there is a coupling effect between shank, calcaneus, midfoot, and hallux movement which play a role in both ACLR and LAS injury risk.Conclusions: Strengthening the muscles acting on the foot may have a significant impact on ACLR and LAS injury risk.		[van Der Merwe, Carla; Colborne, G. Robert; Fink, Philip W.] Massey Univ, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Shultz, Sarah P.] Univ Seattle, Seattle, WA USA; [van Der Merwe, Carla] Massey Univ Manawatu, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Private Bag 11 222, Palmerston North 4442, New Zealand								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000547428100001	88	Article; Article		
J	Mintz, Jesse J.; Jones, Courtney M. C.; Seplaki, Christopher L.; Rizzone, Katherine H.; Thevenet-Morrison, Kelly; Block, Robert C.								Track and field injuries resulting in emergency department visits from 2004 to 2015: an analysis of the national electronic injury surveillance system								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			74	80		10.1080/00913847.2020.1779001			JAN 2 2021	2021	Objectives Determine national estimates of injuries, mechanisms of injury (MOI), and injury severity among men and women engaging in track and field activities in the United States (U.S.), aged 18 years and older, who present to emergency departments (ED). Methods Retrospective analyses of injury narratives were conducted using data from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), comprising individuals 18 and older presenting to U.S. EDs from 2004 to 2015, with injuries associated with track and field, applying the NEISS product code 5030 and patient narratives. National injury estimates were calculated using sample weights. National injury incidence rates were determined using U.S. census estimate data (denominator), and comparisons of categorical variables by gender were made using a chi-squared test, and associated p-values. Results Estimated 42,947 ED visits among individuals 18 and older presented for track and field-related injuries in the U.S. from 2004 to 2015, consisting of 23,509 incidents among men, and 19,438 among women. The highest rates of injury occurred in 2010 among men, and 2011 among women, with 3.47, and 2.70 injuries per 100,000 U.S. population, respectively. No statistically significant differences (alpha = 0.05) were found between genders for injury severity (p = 0.32), injury diagnosis (p = 0.30), and body region (p = 0.13), but there was a significant difference overall between genders for mechanism of injury (p = 0.01). Conclusions To develop appropriate injury preventive interventions for track and field athletes, additional studies exploring associations between injury characteristics, namely the mechanisms of injury, and gender, are necessary.		[Mintz, Jesse J.; Jones, Courtney M. C.; Seplaki, Christopher L.; Thevenet-Morrison, Kelly; Block, Robert C.] Univ Rochester, Sch Med & Dent, Dept Publ Hlth Sci, Rochester, NY USA; [Jones, Courtney M. C.] Univ Rochester, Sch Med & Dent, Dept Emergency Med, Rochester, NY USA; [Rizzone, Katherine H.] Univ Rochester, Sch Med & Dent, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, Rochester, NY USA; [Block, Robert C.] Univ Rochester, Sch Med & Dent, Dept Cardiol, Rochester, NY USA; [Mintz, Jesse J.] Dept Publ Hlth Sci, Saunders Res Bldg, Rochester, NY 14642 USA								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544512800001	21	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Wesley; Post, Andrew; Karton, Clara; Gilchrist, Michael D.; Robidoux, Michael; Hoshizaki, T. Blaine								A comparison of frequency and magnitude of head impacts between Pee Wee And Bantam youth ice hockey								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	6			728	751		10.1080/14763141.2020.1754450			JUN 3 2023	2023	The purpose of this research was to compare the frequency and magnitude of head impact events between Pee Wee and Bantam ice hockey players. Videos of Pee Wee and Bantam boys' ice hockey were analysed to determine the frequency and type of head impact events. The head impact events were then reconstructed in the laboratory using physical and finite element models to determine the magnitude of strain in the brain tissues. The results showed that Pee Wee boys experienced more head impacts from elbows and boards, while Bantam players had more head impacts to the glass. Pee Wee and Bantam players experienced similar frequency and magnitudes of very low, low, and medium and above (med+) levels of strain to the brain. This research suggests to ice hockey leagues and coaches that to reduce the incidence of these levels of brain trauma, consideration must be given to either reducing the level of contact along the boards or the removal of body checking. In addition, companies who innovate in ice hockey should develop protective devices and equipment strategies that aim to reduce the risk of head injury from shoulder and glass impacts for Bantam players.		[Chen, Wesley; Post, Andrew; Karton, Clara; Robidoux, Michael; Hoshizaki, T. Blaine] Univ Ottawa, Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Post, Andrew; Gilchrist, Michael D.] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Mech & Mat Engn, Dublin, Ireland; [Post, Andrew] Univ Ottawa, Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Post, Andrew] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Mech & Mat Engn, Dublin, Ireland								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000545241600001	77	Article; Article		
J	Castillo, Daniel; Raya-Gonzalez, Javier; Scanlan, Aaron T.; Dominguez-Diez, Marta; Madueno, Maria C.								Influence of opponent ranking on the physical demands encountered during Ultimate Frisbee match-play								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	7			822	833		10.1080/14763141.2020.1766101			JUL 3 2023	2023	There is a lack of evidence regarding the match demands encountered in elite Ultimate Frisbee (UF) overall and dependent upon opponent ranking. These data may be useful to elite UF coaches to implement optimal training loads and recovery strategies. Therefore, this study quantified the physical demands of elite UF match-play and analysed differences in demands according to opponent ranking. Twelve UF players from the same national team participated in the study. An observational design was used to compare the physical demands encountered by players between opponents carrying different rankings (1st, 3rd, 4th, and 5th) during four official matches in a 5-team competition. No significant differences (p > 0.05) in sprinting and repeated-sprinting activity were evident across UF matches between opponents. In contrast, a higher (moderate-large) quantity and greater intensities of body impacts were observed in UF matches played against higher-ranked (1st) compared to lower-ranked teams (3rd, 4th, and 5th). Additionally, greater (moderate-large) PL and metabolic power were observed in matches played against higher-ranked (1st) compared to lower-ranked teams (3rd and 4th). These findings suggest coaches may need to reduce the training loads in the next days after the matches played against higher-ranked opponents compared to when facing lower-ranked opponents.		[Castillo, Daniel; Raya-Gonzalez, Javier; Dominguez-Diez, Marta] Isabel I Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Scanlan, Aaron T.; Madueno, Maria C.] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Human Exercise & Training Lab, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Raya-Gonzalez, Javier] Isabel I Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544826000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Block, Martin E.; Haegele, Justin; Kelly, Luke; Obrusnikova, Iva								Exploring Future Research in Adapted Physical Education								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			429	442		10.1080/02701367.2020.1741500			JUL 3 2021	2021	Quality physical education can play a critical role in helping students become more active, physically literate, and develop the skills and interests to remain physically active throughout their lives. The healthy, physically active student is more likely to be academically motivated, alert, and successful in school. Unfortunately, findings from multiple studies interviewing students with disabilities suggest that students with disabilities are often less active and feel more socially separated from the class compared to their classmates without disabilities in general physical education. Clearly, more research is needed to identify best practices or strategies for creating a positive learning environment in physical education for all students. This paper examines future research considerations based on what we currently know about the physical education experiences and concerns of students with disabilities as well as concerns voiced by general physical educators. Considerations include: (1) What evidence do we have and what evidence do we need to show students with 3 disabilities are receiving appropriate physical education whether included or in a separate setting? (2) What evidence do we have and what evidence do we need to show that physical educators are properly trained and qualified to provide physical education to students with disabilities? (3) What evidence do we have and what evidence do we need to show that particular curricular and teaching models are effective when including students with disabilities in general physical education and when working in small groups or one-on-one? (4) What evidence do we have and what evidence do we need to show that students with disabilities are socially part of the class and not simply physically present.		[Block, Martin E.; Kelly, Luke] Univ Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 22904 USA; [Haegele, Justin] Old Dominion Univ, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA; [Obrusnikova, Iva] Univ Delaware, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Block, Martin E.] Univ Virginia, Curry Sch Educ & Human Dev, Dept Kinesiol, 210 Emmet St S, Charlottesville, VA 22904 USA								38							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000544494800001	94	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Gang; Breedlove, John								The effect of innovation-driven policy on innovation efficiency: based on the listed sports firms on Chinese new Third Board								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	4			735	755		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2019-0136			NOV 2 2020	2020	Purpose This paper aims to examine the effect of innovation-driven polices on innovation efficiency of sport firms listed on the new Third Board in China. Design/methodology/approach Firm innovation efficiency, including comprehensive innovation efficiency, pure technical efficiency and scale innovation efficiency were calculated by using data envelopment analysis (DEA) models. The input variables and output variable in the DEA model were selected through correlation analysis. The effects of several innovation-driven policies on the innovation efficiency of sport firms were analyzed by a series of multiple regression analyses. Findings Regarding the innovation efficiency evaluation of sport firms, total research and development (R&D) investment and total R&D staff are two suitable input variables, and total profit, sales revenue and new effective patent are three suitable output variables. Income tax relief for high-tech enterprise has a positive effect on comprehensive innovation efficiency and pure technical efficiency, and governmental subsidies have a negative effect on comprehensive innovation efficiency and pure technical efficiency. However, pretax deduction of R&D expenses does not have a significant effect on comprehensive innovation efficiency, pure technical efficiency and scale innovation efficiency, and income tax relief for high-tech enterprise and pretax deduction of R&D expenses also have no effect on scale innovation efficiency. For a large-scale sport firm, the negative effect of "governmental subsidies" and the positive effect of "income tax relief for high-tech enterprise" on its pure technical efficiency are more significant. For a sport firm with more R&D staff, governmental subsides and "income tax relief for high-tech enterprise" have more positive effect on its innovation efficiency. Practical implications The study findings could potentially provide practical guidance to both managers and government-industry policymakers in the sports industry. Originality/value Firstly, this paper focused on Chinese sport firms from a rising industry in a developing country (China). The related conclusions are conducive to the governmental management of new industries and the innovation management of new enterprises. Second, this paper analyzed the effect of three special innovation-driven policies on three types of innovation efficiency and explored enterprise innovation development in more detail. Third, this paper not only discusses the effect of innovation-driven policies on innovation efficiency, but also the heterogeneity of their effects.		[Chen, Gang] Wuhan Sports Univ, Econ & Management Sch, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Breedlove, John] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Chen, Gang] Wuhan Sports Univ, Econ & Management Sch, Wuhan, Peoples R China								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000538080100001	78	Article; Article		
J	Sjoberg, Maria; Berg, Hans E.; Norrbrand, Lena; Andersen, Michael S.; Gutierrez-Farewik, Elena M.; Sundblad, Patrik; Eiken, Ola								Influence of gravity on biomechanics in flywheel squat and leg press								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	6			767	783		10.1080/14763141.2020.1761993			JUN 3 2023	2023	Resistance exercise on Earth commonly involves both body weight and external load. When developing exercise routines and devices for use in space, the absence of body weight is not always adequately considered. This study compared musculoskeletal load distribution during two flywheel resistance knee-extension exercises, performed in the direction of (vertical squat; S) or perpendicular to (horizontal leg press; LP) the gravity vector. Eleven participants performed these two exercises at a given submaximal load. Motion analysis and musculoskeletal modelling were used to compute joint loads and to simulate a weightless situation. The flywheel load was more than twice as high in LP as in S (p < 0.001). Joint moments and forces were greater during LP than during S in the ankle, hip and lower back (p < 0.01) but were similar in the knee. In the simulated weightless situation, hip and lower-back loadings in S were higher than corresponding values at Earth gravity (p <= 0.01), whereas LP joint loads did not increase. The results suggest that LP is a better terrestrial analogue than S for knee-extension exercise in weightlessness and that the magnitude and direction of gravity during resistance exercise should be considered when designing and evaluating countermeasure exercise routines and devices for space.		[Sjoberg, Maria; Norrbrand, Lena; Eiken, Ola] KTH Royal Inst Technol, Sch Engn Sci Chem Biotechnol & Hlth CBH, Swedish Aerosp Physiol Ctr, Div Environm Physiol, Solna, Sweden; [Berg, Hans E.] Karolinska Inst, Karolinska Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Div Orthoped & Biotechnol,CLINTEC, Stockholm, Sweden; [Andersen, Michael S.] Aalborg Univ, Dept Mat & Prod, Aalborg, Denmark; [Gutierrez-Farewik, Elena M.] KTH Royal Inst Technol, KTH BioMEx Ctr, KTH Mech, Stockholm, Sweden; [Sundblad, Patrik] Karolinska Inst, Karolinska Univ Hosp, Dept Lab Med, Div Clin Physiol, Stockholm, Sweden; [Sjoberg, Maria] KTH Royal Inst Technol, Sch Engn Sci Chem Biotechnol & Hlth CBH, Swedish Aerosp Physiol Ctr, Div Environm Physiol, Solna, Sweden								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542768100001	45	Article; Article		
J	Camacho, Pablo; Cruz, Diego A.; Madinabeitia, Iker; Gimenez, Francisco J.; Cardenas, David								Time Constraint Increases Mental Load and Influences in the Performance in Small-Sided Games in Basketball								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			443	452		10.1080/02701367.2020.1745138			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose In team sports like basketball, small-sided games have received much scientific attention because of their capacity to simulate competitive environments. The purpose of this study was to explore the impact of different task constraints on mental load, and its consequences for individual and team performance in basketball small-sided games.Method: Twenty-four university students voluntarily took part in this study (M-age = 20.81 years [+/- 1.76]). Four different 3 x 3 basketball games were played: (A) free game, (B) seven seconds possession, (C) three passes maximum per attack phase, (D) conditions B and C combined.Results: Statistical analysis showed that constraints B, C and D produce more mental load, provoke differences in the affect response and the performance is worse.Conclusion: These results demonstrate the mental cost of restricting the time and number of passes, separately and combined to decide and act.		[Camacho, Pablo] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain; [Cruz, Diego A.; Madinabeitia, Iker; Cardenas, David] Univ Granada, Granada, Spain; [Madinabeitia, Iker; Cardenas, David] Sport & Hlth Univ, Res Inst iMUDS, Granada, Spain; [Gimenez, Francisco J.] Univ Huelva, Huelva, Spain; [Madinabeitia, Iker] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Carretera Alfacar S-N, Granada 18011, Spain								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000542743900001	49	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Tony Lin-Wei; Wang, Yan; Wong, Duo Wai-Chi; Lam, Wing-Kai; Zhang, Ming								Joint contact force and movement deceleration among badminton forward lunges: a musculoskeletal modelling study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	10			1249	1261		10.1080/14763141.2020.1749720			NOV 26 2022	2022	Joint contact force is the actual force applied on the articular surface that could predict performance and injuries, but rarely reported for badminton sport. The study sought to calculate lower limb joint contact force and decelerative kinematics for badminton forward lunges. Fifteen badminton players performed backhand and forehand forward lunges in random order. The kinematic and kinetic data were input to scale a musculoskeletal model and solve inverse dynamics in the simulations. Outcome variables were compared between lunge conditions using repeated measures MANOVA. Forehand lunge produced higher compressional ankle contact force (p= 0.040, partial eta(2) = 0.14), faster touchdown hip abduction (p= 0.031, partial eta(2) = 0.16), and larger horizontal deceleration of the mass centre (p= 0.016, partial eta(2) = 0.19) and torso (p= 0.031, partial eta(2) = 0.16) compared to backhand lunge. Despite the statistical significance, we found that the increments of joint loading in forehand lunge were small (<5%) with limited effect size and could be attributed to the larger movement deceleration during braking. These force changes could possess performance merits. However, its linkage to injury risk is unclear and warrants further investigation.		[Chen, Tony Lin-Wei; Wang, Yan; Wong, Duo Wai-Chi; Zhang, Ming] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Fac Engn, Dept Biomed Engn, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Chen, Tony Lin-Wei; Lam, Wing-Kai] Li Ning China Sports Goods Co Ltd, Li Ning Sports Sci Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yan; Wong, Duo Wai-Chi; Zhang, Ming] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Shenzhen Res Inst, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Lam, Wing-Kai] Shenyang Sports Inst, Dept Kinesiol, Shenyang, Peoples R China; [Lam, Wing-Kai] Li Ning China Sports Goods Co Ltd, Li Ning Sports Sci Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Lam, Wing-Kai] Shenyang Sports Inst, Dept Kinesiol, Shenyang, Peoples R China								22							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000541998900001	50	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Anthony N.; Comfort, Paul; McMahon, John; Bishop, Chris; Chavda, Shyam; Read, Paul; Mundy, Peter; Lake, Jason								Developing Powerful Athletes, Part 1: Mechanical Underpinnings								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	3			30	39		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000543			JUN 2020	2020	This review will revisit practitioner understanding of the development of power, before outlining some of the key mechanical parameters that contribute to power development. This understanding will help with planning and periodization of strength and power training, which is explored in part 2 of this 2-part review. This review (part 1) discusses the force-time and force-velocity curve and addresses recent criticism in using terms such as power, rate of force development, and explosiveness, over impulse. These terms are distinguished mechanically and conceptually for the benefit of the scientist and coach, and are essential for effective sharing of data and practice.		[Turner, Anthony N.; Bishop, Chris; Chavda, Shyam] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Greenlands Lane, London, England; [Comfort, Paul; McMahon, John] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth & Soc, Salford, Lancs, England; [Read, Paul] Aspetar Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Read, Paul] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Mundy, Peter] Coventry Univ, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Lake, Jason] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Chichester, England; [Turner, Anthony N.] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Greenlands Lane, London, England								56							Sport Sciences	WOS:000538877200004	24	Article; Article		
J	Andreato, Leonardo V.; Coimbra, Danilo R.; Andrade, Alexandro								Challenges to Athletes During the Home Confinement Caused by the COVID-19 Pandemic								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	3			1	5		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000563			JUN 2020	2020	The world is currently facing a serious coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19). This novel coronavirus is a new virus for which effective drugs and vaccines have not yet been developed. Amateur and professional athletic events around the world have been stopped, and teams and athletes have had to adopt social withdrawal measures, interrupting their training and preparation routines for competitions. Given this alarming scenario, this article aims to alert athletes to the importance of maintaining a conditioning routine during this confinement period.		[Andreato, Leonardo V.; Andrade, Alexandro] State Univ Santa, Phys Educ Dept, Sci Ctr Hlth & Sport, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Coimbra, Danilo R.] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Dept Phys Educ, Inst Life Sci, Governador Valadares, MG, Brazil; [Andreato, Leonardo V.] State Univ Santa, Phys Educ Dept, Sci Ctr Hlth & Sport, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								61							Sport Sciences	WOS:000538877200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Ovretveit, Karsten								High-Intensity, Non-Sport-Specific Strength and Conditioning for Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Athletes: Theoretical and Practical Considerations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	3			58	69		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000542			JUN 2020	2020	Brazilian jiu-jitsu (BJJ) is a grappling-based combat sport with a growing recreational and professional athlete population. The sport is notoriously hard to master, which requires practitioners to maintain a high BJJ-specific training volume. High-intensity training is a well-established approach to rapid improvements in strength and endurance. Recent studies show that concomitant BJJ and high-intensity strength and conditioning training can improve several physical and physiological attributes. The present article briefly reviews literature pertaining to BJJ and its athletes and provides training recommendations based on high-intensity strength and conditioning concepts.		[Ovretveit, Karsten] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Sociol & Polit Sci, Trondheim, Norway; [Ovretveit, Karsten] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Sociol & Polit Sci, Trondheim, Norway								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000538877200006	86	Article; Article		
J	Binkley, Helen M.; Douglass, Dillon; Phillips, Kristi; Wise, Stephanie L.								Rehabilitation and Return to Sport After Nonsurgical Treatment of Achilles Tendon Rupture								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	3			90	99		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000536			JUN 2020	2020	This article presents an overview of the rehabilitation and return to sport following a nonsurgical Achilles tendon (AT) rupture. A brief description of the recognition and diagnosis of the injury, selection of nonoperative treatment, outcome measures, importance of range of motion, purpose of functional rehabilitation, description of the rehabilitation phases, and return to play progressions are included. A well-designed early functional rehabilitation program is more important than the method of treatment in outcomes and functional performance with AT ruptures.		[Binkley, Helen M.; Douglass, Dillon; Phillips, Kristi; Wise, Stephanie L.] Middle Tennessee State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Murfreesboro, TN 37130 USA; [Binkley, Helen M.] Middle Tennessee State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Murfreesboro, TN 37130 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000538877200009	73	Article; Article		
J	LaPlaca, David A.; Turner, Heidi								Health Ramifications of Smart Devices								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	3			106	111		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000535			JUN 2020	2020	Smart devices, such as smartphones, smartwatches, and tablets, have rapidly become more popular in the fitness industry and provide a variety of benefits ranging from tracking barbell velocity to displaying online training programs. These devices use cellular data and Wi-Fi to transmit information, which have shown to potentially pose risks to our health. The purpose of this article is to both (a) provide the reader with researched information on how the use of smart devices may pose a risk to our health and (b) provide practical applications for how to reduce the health risks from using these devices. For a video abstract of this article, see Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A274.		[LaPlaca, David A.] Evolve Fitness Strength & Conditioning, Audubon, NJ 08106 USA; [Turner, Heidi] FoodLogic PLLC, Tacoma, WA USA; [LaPlaca, David A.] Evolve Fitness Strength & Conditioning, Audubon, NJ 08106 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000538877200011	43	Article; Article		
J	Clemente, Filipe M.								The Threats of Small-Sided Soccer Games: A Discussion About Their Differences With the Match External Load Demands and Their Variability Levels								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	3			100	105		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000526			JUN 2020	2020	Small-sided games (SSGs) are regularly used in soccer training. SSGs are used because of their capacity to replicate the demands of a real match or control the overall workload of players. However, some threats may result from the use of SSGs. Thus, it is important to highlight those threats to improve the effectiveness of SSG implementation. Based on that, we examine and discuss comparisons between external load SSGs and real-game scenarios, the intra- and interplayers physical variability during the smaller formats of play, the consequences of SSGs in terms of the proper physical stimulation of players, and injury prevention.		[Clemente, Filipe M.] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe M.] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Covilha, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe M.] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe M.] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Covilha, Portugal								61							Sport Sciences	WOS:000538877200010	38	Article; Article		
J	Pham, Richard D.; Machek, Steven B.; Lorenz, Kent A.								Technical Aspects and Applications of the Low-Bar Back Squat								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	3			121	128		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000521			JUN 2020	2020	The low-bar back squat (LBBS) is a barbell squat variation that emphasizes hip musculature through use of forward lean. This characteristic, among others, allows greater loads to be lifted and can facilitate rehabilitation in a compromised knee joint. Correct technique should be instructed to promote proper execution. This article aims to discuss the anatomical and technical differences between the high-bar back squat and LBBS, define LBBS-specific technique, and provide practitioners strategies to select the best version for their lifters.		[Pham, Richard D.; Machek, Steven B.; Lorenz, Kent A.] San Francisco State Univ, Coll Hlth & Social Sci, Dept Kinesiol, San Francisco, CA 94132 USA; [Machek, Steven B.] Baylor Univ, Robbins Coll Hlth & Human Sci, Exercise & Biochem Nutr Lab, Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Machek, Steven B.] San Francisco State Univ, Coll Hlth & Social Sci, Dept Kinesiol, San Francisco, CA 94132 USA; [Machek, Steven B.] Baylor Univ, Robbins Coll Hlth & Human Sci, Exercise & Biochem Nutr Lab, Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, Waco, TX 76798 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000538877200013	38	Article; Article		
J	Pelham, Thomas W.; Robinson, Michael G.; Holt, Laurence E.								Injuries in Sprint Canoeists and Kayakers: Etiology, Mechanisms of Injury, Treatment Options, and Practical Applications								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	3			22	29		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000534			JUN 2020	2020	On-water and dry-land training programs for sprint canoeists and kayakers are physically demanding. Musculoskeletal injuries particularly to the shoulder, thoracic, and scapula regions are common. Overtraining can lead to muscle imbalances, glenohumeral and scapular kinematic dysfunctions, soft-tissue damage, and pain. Preventive programs are required. However, objective research-based evidence for sprint canoe- and kayak-specific preventive programming is lacking. This study will discuss common injuries sustained by paddlers, the mechanisms of these injuries, treatment and prevention approaches, and practical applications highlighting the need for coaches, clinicians, and strength and conditioning professionals to take a proactive approach in addressing high-risk injury factors. For a video abstract of this article, see Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A275..		[Robinson, Michael G.] Alberta Sprint Racing Canoe Assoc, Calgary Canoe Club, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Holt, Laurence E.] Dalhousie Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Halifax, NS, Canada; [Robinson, Michael G.] Alberta Sprint Racing Canoe Assoc, Calgary Canoe Club, Calgary, AB, Canada								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000538877200003	33	Article; Article		
J	Hung, Chia-Ling; Hung, Min-Hao; Chang, Chi-Yao; Wang, Hsin-Huan; Ho, Chin-Shan; Lin, Kuo-Chuan								Influences of Lateral Jump Smash Actions in Different Situations on the Lower Extremity Load of Badminton Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			264	270					JUN 2020	2020	Badminton atypical actions and hitting movements often occur during the game; therefore, many special footwork methods have been developed to facilitate the rapid movements required to hit the shuttlecock, including quick turning and jumping and quick directional change movements. Studies have shown that the majority of badminton sport injuries occur in the lower extremity joints of athletes. The purpose of this study was to investigate the influences of hitting motion and unanticipated hitting direction on landing mechanics after backhand lateral jump smashing and landing to analyze joint stiffness and torque changes in three lower extremity joints. Recruited sixteen badminton athletes.The capture frequency of the Vicon Motion System (300Hz), Kistler force platform (1500Hz) and Vicon Nexus Version 1.8.5 software were used simultaneously to capture the kinematic and kinetic parameter of backhand side lateral jump smash footwork. The swing actions were divided into two situations, shadow (footwork and racket swinging practice without targets) and hitting (footwork and stroke shuttlecock) actions, whereas the directions were divided into directional and non-directional. Two-way repeated measures ANOVA with the LSD correction was used to compare the differences among the four conditions. The significance level was set to a = 0.05. Results shown that, at the peak of torque, the ankle plantar flexion of the non-directional shadow (p < 0.05) were greater than that of directional shadow (p < 0.05); meantime, ankle torque change of non-directional shadow (p < 0.05) and directional hitting (p < 0.05) was lower than that of non-directional hitting, but the non-directional hitting was larger compared to non-directional shadow (p < 0.05) at the maximum vertical GRF. The hip extension at peak of torque of directional hitting were larger than that of non-directional shadow (p < 0.05). The shadow actions hip flexion angle was larger than that of directional hitting at initial contact, but the non-directional hitting hip abduction was has the significant difference among all the conditioning. The hip flexion angle of non-directional shadow was larger than that of directional hitting (p < 0.05), the hip abduction angle of the nondirectional hitting was greater than that of non-directional shadow (p < 0.05) at the peak VGRF. Elite badminton players execute different training movements; the joint stiffness was in the same state. In the hitting actions has greater ankle and hip joint torque than shadow actions. The badminton player was change joint range of motion to adjust lower limbs stiffness.		[Hung, Chia-Ling] Kaohsiung Vet Gen Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Hung, Min-Hao; Chang, Chi-Yao; Wang, Hsin-Huan; Ho, Chin-Shan] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Lin, Kuo-Chuan] Chung Yuan Christian Univ, Off Phys Educ, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Lin, Kuo-Chuan] Chung Yuan Christian Univ, Off Phys Educ, Taoyuan, Taiwan								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300004	39	Article; Article		
J	Garcia, Franc; Vazquez-Guerrero, Jairo; Castellano, Julen; Casals, Marti; Schelling, Xavi								Differences in Physical Demands between Game Quarters and Playing Positions on Professional Basketball Players during Official Competition								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			256	263					JUN 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to compare physical demands between game quarters and specific playing positions during official basketball competition. Thirteen professional male basketball players from the Spanish 2nd Division were monitored across all 17 regular-season home games. Physical demands were analyzed using a local positioning system (WIMU PROT, Realtrack Systems S.L., Almeria, Spain) and included peak velocity, total distance covered, high-speed running (>18 km.h(-1)), player load, jumps (>3G), impacts (>8G) and high-intensity accelerations (>= 2 m.s(-2)) and decelerations (<=-2 m.s(-2)). A linear mixed model was used to test statistical significance (p < 0.05) between independent variables. Furthermore, standardized Cohen's effect size (ES) and respective 90% confidence intervals were also calculated. There was an overall decrease in all variables between the first and fourth quarter during competition. Specifically, total distance covered (p < 0.001; ES = -1.31) and player load (p < 0.001; ES = -1.27) showed large effects between the first and last period. Regarding differences between positions, guards presented significant increased values compared to centers (p = 0.04; ES = 0.51), whereas centers achieved significant larger results and moderate effects in comparison to guards in peak velocity (p = 0.01; ES = 0.88) and jumps (p = 0.04; ES = 0.86). In conclusion, physical demands vary between game quarters and playing positions during official competition and these differences should be considered when designing training drills to optimize game performance.		[Garcia, Franc; Vazquez-Guerrero, Jairo] Futbol Club Barcelona, Sport Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain; [Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country, Phys Act & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Barca Innovat Hub, Med Dept, Futbol Club Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; [Casals, Marti] Univ Vic Cent Univ Catalonia, Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Vic, Spain; [Schelling, Xavi] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport iHeS, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Garcia, Franc] Futbol Club Barcelona, Sport Performance Area, Barcelona, Spain								107							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300003	38	Article; Article		
J	Mansoubi, Maedeh; Weedon, Benjamin David; Esser, Patrick; Mayo, Nancy; Fazel, Mina; Wade, Will; Ward, Tomas E.; Kemp, Steve; Delextrat, Anne; Dawes, Helen								Cognitive Performance, Quality and Quantity of Movement Reflect Psychological Symptoms in Adolescents								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			364	373					JUN 2020	2020	The presentation of unhealthy psychological symptoms are rising sharply in adolescents. Detrimental lifestyle behaviours are proposed as both possible causes and consequences. This study set out to compare selected measures of quality and quantity of movement between adolescents with and without unhealthy psychological symptoms. Using a cross sectional design, 96 participants completed the study from a whole year group of 166, age (13.36 +/- 0.48) male 50.6% from a secondary school in Oxfordshire, England as a part of a larger study (EPIC) between January and April 2018. Measures were taken of quality and quantity of movement: reaction/movement time, gait pattern & physical activity, alongside psychological symptoms. Differences in movement behaviour in relation to psychological symptom and emotional problem presentation were determined using ANOVA. In the event of a significant result for the main factor of each parameter, a Bonferroni -corrected post hoc test was conducted to show the difference between categories in each group. Results for both unhealthy psychological symptoms and emotional problems were grouped into four categories ('Close to average', 'slightly raised', 'high' and 'very high'). Early adolescents with very high unhealthy psychological symptoms had 16.79% slower reaction times (p = 0.003, eta(p)2 = 0.170), 13.43% smaller walk ratio (p = 0.007, eta(p)2 = 0.152), 7.13% faster cadence (p = 0.005, eta(p)2 = 0.149), 6.95% less step time (p = 0.007, eta(p)2 = 0.153) and 1.4% less vigorous physical activity (p = 0.04, eta(p)2 = 0.102) than children with close to average psychological symptoms. Early adolescents with very high emotional problems had 12.25% slower reaction times (p = 0.05, eta(p)2 = 0.081), 10.61% smaller walk ratio (p = 0.02, eta(p)2 = 0.108), 6.03% faster cadence (p = 0.01, eta(p)2 = 0.134), 6.07% shorter step time (p = 0.007, eta(p)2 = 0.141) and 1.78% less vigorous physical activity (p = 0.009, eta(p)2 = 0.136) than children with close to average emotional problems. Different movement quality and quantity of was present in adolescents with unhealthy psychological symptoms and emotional problems. We propose movement may be used to both monitor symptoms, and as a novel therapeutic behavioural approach. Further studies are required to confirm our findings.		[Mansoubi, Maedeh; Weedon, Benjamin David; Esser, Patrick; Delextrat, Anne; Dawes, Helen] Oxford Brookes Univ, Ctr Movement Occupat & Rehabil Sci MOReS, Oxford, England; [Mansoubi, Maedeh; Weedon, Benjamin David; Esser, Patrick; Delextrat, Anne; Dawes, Helen] Oxford Inst Nursing Midwifery & Allied Hlth Res O, Oxford, England; [Mansoubi, Maedeh; Esser, Patrick; Dawes, Helen] Oxford Clin Allied Technol & Trial Serv Unit OxCA, Oxford, England; McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Mayo, Nancy; Fazel, Mina] Univ Oxford, Dept Psychiat, Med Sci Div, Oxford, England; [Wade, Will] Ace Ctr, Failsworth, England; [Ward, Tomas E.] Dublin City Univ, Insight Ctr Data Analyt, Dublin, Ireland; [Kemp, Steve] British Fencing, Oxford, England; [Mansoubi, Maedeh] Oxford Brookes Univ, Ctr Movement Occupat & Rehabil Sci MOReS, Oxford, England; [Mansoubi, Maedeh] Oxford Inst Nursing Midwifery & Allied Hlth Res O, Oxford, England; [Mansoubi, Maedeh] Oxford Clin Allied Technol & Trial Serv Unit OxCA, Oxford, England								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300015	40	Article; Article		
J	Yokoyama, Keiko; Tabuchi, Noriyuki; Araujo, Duarte; Yamamoto, Yuji								How Training Tools Physically Linking Soccer Players Improve Interpersonal Coordination								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			245	255					JUN 2020	2020	Interpersonal coordination is an important skill for promoting collective behavior in team sports. This study tested the impact of two types of tools in facilitating triadic coordination. 16 males aged under 12 years were divided into four groups with similar skill levels and average ages. Each group performed a three-versus-one ball passing task under three conditions: a one-elasticband tool linking the three players, a three-elastic-bands tool linking the three players, and without a tool linking the three players. The dependent variables were ball passing frequency, frequency and amplitude of inner angles of the triangle formed by the players, and duration of the synchronized patterns of the inner angles. The results show that neither tool increased ball-passing frequency or the duration of synchronized patterns. However, both tools increased the frequency of inner angles, and the three-elastic-bands tool decreased the amplitude of inner angles. From these results, we conclude that elastic-band tools affect spatial and temporal triadic formation by means of haptic and visual information. Specifically, compared with the one-elastic-band tool, the three-elastic-bands tool stabilizes the triadic spatial formation. We also explore the implications for how these tools can be used in practice.		[Yokoyama, Keiko; Yamamoto, Yuji] Nagoya Univ, Res Ctr Hlth Phys Fitness & Sports, Nagoya, Aichi 4648601, Japan; [Tabuchi, Noriyuki] Mizuno Corp, Res & Dev Dept, Osaka, Japan; [Araujo, Duarte] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Yokoyama, Keiko] Nagoya Univ, Res Ctr Hlth Phys Fitness & Sports, Nagoya, Aichi 4648601, Japan								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300002	38	Article; Article		
J	Kato, Takeru; Tomioka, Toru; Yamashita, Takenori; Yamamoto, Hidehiro; Sugajima, Yasuhiro; Ohnishi, Norikazu								Nordic Walking Increases Distal Radius Bone Mineral Content in Young Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			237	244					JUN 2020	2020	Unlike the lumbar spine and femur, the radius does not bear a gravitational mechanical compression load during daily activities. The distal radius is a common fracture site, but few studies have addressed the effects of exercise on fracture risk. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of the pole push-off movement of Nordic walking (NW) on the bone mineral content (BMC) and areal bone mineral density (aBMD) of the distal radius and the muscle cross-sectional area (CSA) at the mid-humeral and midfemoral levels. The participants were allocated to two groups: an NW group and a control group. The NW group walked at least 30 min with NW poles three times a week for six months. There were no significant changes in muscle CSA at the mid-humeral or midfemoral levels between or within groups. There were also no significant changes in BMC or aBMD at 1/3 and 1/6 of the distance from the distal end of the radius in either group. However, the BMC and aBMD at 1/10 of the distance from the distal end of the radius were significantly increased by NW. The NW pole push-off movement provided effective loading to increase the osteogenic response in the ultra-distal radius. The ground reaction forces transmitted through the poles to the radius stimulated bone formation, particularly in the ultra-distal radius.		[Kato, Takeru; Yamamoto, Hidehiro; Sugajima, Yasuhiro] Asahi Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Sports Sci, Sch Hlth Sci, Mizuho, Gifu, Japan; [Tomioka, Toru] Meijo Univ, Fac Foreign Studies, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Yamashita, Takenori] Suzuka Univ Med Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Clin Radiat, Suzuka, Mie, Japan; [Kato, Takeru] Suzuka Univ Med Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Clin Nutr, Suzuka, Mie, Japan; [Ohnishi, Norikazu] Mie Prefectural Coll Nursing, Fac Nursing, Tsu, Mie, Japan; [Kato, Takeru] Asahi Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Sports Sci, Sch Hlth Sci, Mizuho, Gifu, Japan								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300001	37	Article; Article		
J	Lin, Wei-Cheng; Lee, Chia-Lun; Chang, Nai-Jen								Acute Effects of Dynamic Stretching Followed by Vibration Foam Rolling on Sports Performance of Badminton Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			420	428					JUN 2020	2020	Dynamic stretching (DS) is performed to increase sports performance and is also used primarily for transiently increasing range of motion (ROM). Recently, vibration foam rolling ( VFR) has emerged. Its underlying concept is that it combines foam rolling techniques with local vibration to improve ROM and muscular activation concurrently. This crossover study investigated the effects of DS or DS followed by VFR (DS + VFR) during warm-ups on flexibility, muscle stiffness, power, and agility of the lower limbs in badminton athletes. Forty badminton players performed DS or DS + VFR as warmup exercises on two occasions in a randomized order. The target muscle groups were the bilateral shoulder, anterior and posterior thigh, posterior calf, and lower back. Main outcome measures: The primary outcome was knee range of motion (ROM), and the secondary outcomes were muscle stiffness, lower limb power (countermovement jump [CMJ]), and agility. Results indicated that the protocols improved performance. DS increased knee flexion ROM (% change = 1.92, ES = 0.3, p = 0.033), CMJ height (% change = 5.04, ES = 0.2, p = 0.004), and agility (% change = -4.97, ES = 0.4, p < 0.001) but increased quadriceps muscle stiffness (% change = 3.74, ES = 0.3, p = 0.001) and increased gastrocnemius muscle stiffness (% change = 10.39, ES = 0.5, p = 0.001). DS + VFR increased knee extension ROM (% change =2.87, ES = 0.4, p = 0.003), reduced quadriceps muscle stiffness (% change = -2.79, ES = 0.3, p = 0.017), CMJ height (% change = 2.41, ES = 0.1, p = 0.037), and agility (% change = -4.74, ES = 0.2, p < 0.001). DS + VFR was not significantly superior to DS, except for muscle stiffness reduction. Taken together, we suggest that practitioners consider DS as a first line of warm-up exercise to increase ROM, CMJ height, and agility in athletes. Moreover, the addition of VFR to DS results in a large reduction of muscle stiffness, potentially reducing the risk of sports injury. Athletes, coaches and athletic professionals may consider them when selecting effective warm-up practices to augment athletic performance.		[Lin, Wei-Cheng; Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Dept Sports Med, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan; [Lee, Chia-Lun] Natl Sun Yat Sen Univ, Ctr Phys & Hlth Educ, Kaohsiung 804, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, PhD Program Biomed Engn, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Regenerat Med & Cell Therapy Res Ctr, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Dept Sports Med, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, PhD Program Biomed Engn, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan; [Chang, Nai-Jen] Kaohsiung Med Univ, Regenerat Med & Cell Therapy Res Ctr, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan								44							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300021	50	Article; Article		
J	Takeuchi, Kosuke; Nakamura, Masatoshi								Influence of High Intensity 20-Second Static Stretching on the Flexibility and Strength of Hamstrings								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			429	435					JUN 2020	2020	The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of high intensity static stretching for 20 seconds on flexibility and strength in the hamstrings. Seventeen healthy participants (13 men and 4 women) underwent static stretching for 20 seconds at three different intensities based on the point of discomfort (POD, 120% POD, and MaxPOD). To examine the change in flexibility and strength, range of motion (ROM), passive torque, muscletendon unit stiffness, peak torque of maximum voluntary isokinetic concentric contraction, and knee angle at peak torque were measured. To evaluate a time course of pain, a numerical rating scale (NRS) was described. ROM (percent change; POD = 113.5 +/- 10.4%, 120%POD = 127.6 +/- 18.8%, MaxPOD = 135.6 +/- 18.5%) (p < 0.01) and passive torque (percent change; POD = 124.2 +/- 38.9%, 120%POD = 143.4 +/- 65.1%, MaxPOD = 171.8 +/- 83.6%) (p < 0.01) were increased at all intensities. Muscle-tendon unit stiffness was decreased at 120%POD (percent change; 72.4 +/- 36.2, p < 0.01) and MaxPOD (percent change; 56.6 +/- 30.0, p < 0.01). Peak torque showed no change at all intensities (percent change; POD = 99.1 +/- 14.0%, 120%POD = 95.4 +/- 17.4%, MaxPOD = 98.4 +/- 20.1%, p > 0.05). There were significant correlations between the intensities and relative change of the ROM (r = 0.57, p < 0.01), passive torque (r = 0.46, p < 0.01), muscle-tendon unit stiffness (r = -0.53, p < 0.01) and knee angle at peak torque (r = 0.50, p < 0.01). NRS increased with the intensity of static stretching (median; POD = 1, 120%POD = 3, Max POD = 8), though the pain disappeared immediately after the stretching (median = 0). In conclusion, static stretching for 20 seconds at high intensity was effective for a decrement in muscle-tendon unit stiffness.		[Takeuchi, Kosuke] Kobe Int Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Nakamura, Masatoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Niigata, Japan; [Takeuchi, Kosuke] Kobe Int Univ, Fac Rehabil, Higashinada Ku, 9-1-6 Koyou Cho, Kobe, Hyogo 6580032, Japan								48							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300022	58	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Erica Q.; Miana, Andreia N.; Ferreira, Jane S. S. P.; Kiyomoto, Henry D.; Dinato, Mauro C. M. E.; Sacco, Isabel C. N.								The Association Between Rearfoot Motion While Barefoot and Shod in Different Types of Running Shoes in Recreational Runners								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			383	389					JUN 2020	2020	The rearfoot angle (RFA) is a biomechanical variable widely used to determine the rearfoot motion (RM). Shoe manufacturers began to develop running shoes with RM control that would supposedly alter foot-ground interaction mechanics and neutralize excessive pronation or supination; moreover, some studies have not shown differences in rearfoot motion in shod condition compared to barefoot. This study intended to answer three questions: Do the shoes runners wear correspond to their respective barefoot RM? Does the eversion angle change during shod running, regardless the shoes worn? Can footwear designed for a specific RM (supination, pronation, neutral) correct or neutralize the eversion angle of runners? One hundred and eleven runners (38.6 +/- 9.7years; 74.9 +/- 12.0kg; 1.74 +/- 0.08 m), who ran an average of 32 +/- 17km/week, were included in this cross-sectional study. They had their RFA measured by a motion capture system when running barefoot and wearing their habitual running shoes (shod condition). Chi-squared test was used to assess associations between barefoot and shod condition and RFA was compared between conditions using Wilcoxon tests (p = 0.05). There was no association between the type of running shoe and barefoot RM (p > 0.05). There was an association between RFA when barefoot and when shod (p < 0.05). Among all participants classified as neutral, 61% continued to exhibit a normal/neutral RFA when wearing their habitual shoes. Among the overpronators, 100% showed a change in the RM to either normal or supinator. Among the participants classified as supinators, 62% exhibited normal pronation when shod even without using the appropriate footwear, claimed by the manufacturer. Only 44.1% of the sample chose the correct running shoe for their barefoot RM. The majority of runners did not choose their shoes designed for their natural type of RM. The rearfoot eversion angle changed an average 4 degrees when running shod and the RM barefoot altered quite a lot when using a running shoe. The running shoes did not correct the pronation detected barefoot, as claimed by the manufacturers.		[Silva, Erica Q.; Ferreira, Jane S. S. P.; Sacco, Isabel C. N.] Univ Sao Paulo, Fac Med, Dept Fisioterapia Fonoaudiol & Terapia Ocupac, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Miana, Andreia N.; Dinato, Mauro C. M. E.] Inst Vita, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Kiyomoto, Henry D.] Univ Sao Judas Tadeu, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Sacco, Isabel C. N.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Med, Phys Therapy Speech Occupat Therapy Dept, Sao Paulo, Brazil								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300017	47	Article; Article		
J	Terrien, Eric; Huet, Benoit; Iachkine, Paul; Saury, Jacques								Coordination between Crew Members on Flying Multihulls: A Case Study on a Nacra 17								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			298	308					JUN 2020	2020	A current trend in sailing sports is the use of boats equipped with hydrofoils, allowing the boats to "fly" over the water surface. In this situation, the handling of the boat requires fine coordination between the crew members to maintain the precarious flight. The purpose of this case study was to analyze the crew activity on a flying multihull and explore the role of the shared sport equipment in the emergence of coordination between crew members. Data were collected during a training session with a crew of expert sailors. A joint analysis of phenomenological and mechanical data was conducted. The aim of the analysis was to categorize the forms of interactions between crew members, boat and environment. Results showed that collective coordination in the studied situation involves six forms of interaction that are associated with stable, unstable or critical states of the flight. Consequently, we discussed the role played by the crew members, the behavior of the boat and the environment in the collective coordination.		[Terrien, Eric; Huet, Benoit; Saury, Jacques] Univ Nantes, Lab Motricite Interact Performance EA 4334, Nantes, France; [Iachkine, Paul] Ecole Natl Voile & Sports Naut, St Pierre Quiberon, France; [Terrien, Eric] Univ Nantes, Lab Motricite Interact Performance EA 4334, Nantes, France								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300008	36	Article; Article		
J	Amani-Shalamzari, Sadegh; Sarikhani, Ali; Paton, Carl D.; Rajabi, Hamid; Bayati, Mahdi; Nikolaidis, Pantelis Theo; Knechtle, Beat								Occlusion Training During Specific Futsal Training Improves Aspects of Physiological and Physical Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			374	382					JUN 2020	2020	This study aimed to examine the effects of lower limb blood flow restriction (BFR) performed during 3-a-side futsal game training on aerobic and anaerobic performance of futsal players. Twelve male futsal players were randomized into two groups (n = 6); both groups performed ten sessions of the 3-a-side game every other day in half of a futsal court; but one group trained under BFR conditions. Pneumatic cuffs used for the BFR group were inflated to 110% leg systolic blood pressure and increased by 10% after each two completed sessions. Before and after the training sessions subjects completed a series of tests to assess aerobic and anaerobic performances along with changes in blood lactate and anabolic and catabolic hormones. All aerobic and anaerobic performance variables improved in both group after training, however improvements in mean power (12.2%, p = 0.03), run time to fatigue (TTF), (7.1%, p = 0.02) and running economy (RE), (-22.7%, p = 0.01) were significantly greater in the BFR group. There were also significant increases in growth hormone (p = 0.01), testosterone to cortisol ratio at first session (p = 0.01) and rate of lactate removal (p = 0.01) at last session in the BFR group compared to the non-BFR group. Small-sided game (SSG) training with the addition of BFR because of accumulated metabolites and hormonal changed leads to substantially greater increases in performance than SSGs training alone.		[Amani-Shalamzari, Sadegh; Sarikhani, Ali; Rajabi, Hamid] Kharazmi Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Tehran, Iran; [Paton, Carl D.] Eastern Inst Technol, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Napier, New Zealand; [Bayati, Mahdi] Sport Sci Res Inst, Sports Med Res Ctr, Dept Exercise Physiol, Tehran, Iran; [Nikolaidis, Pantelis Theo] Exercise Physiol Lab, Nikaia, Greece; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl, St Gallen, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [Amani-Shalamzari, Sadegh] Kharazmi Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Tehran, Iran								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300016	48	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Hyun Chul; Park, Ki Jun								Injuries in Male and Female Elite Aquatic Sports Athletes: An 8-Year Prospective, Epidemiological Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			390	396					JUN 2020	2020	This study aimed to determine the injury patterns associated with training activities in elite South Korean aquatic sports athletes training for the Olympic Games. From 2012 to 2019, we prospectively collected data on elite aquatic sports athletes at the Korea National Training Center. The athletes were assessed by four sports medicine doctors, and data were stratified according to sex, aquatic style, injury body location, and injury severity. Chi-square tests were used to compare groups. Injury rates was expressed as rate ratios with 95% confidence intervals. Annually, the center hosts an average of 42 elite aquatic athletes spread over four aquatic styles. We recorded 797 injuries in total (annual average: 2.37 injuries/athlete), during training sessions, 57.1% of which were mild injuries. For all athletes, most injuries occurred in the upper limb (35.9%), followed by the lower limb (31.0%), the trunk (24.5%), and the head and neck (8.7%). Aquatic style significantly influenced injury body location and severity for both male and female athletes (injury body location: p < 0.001 and p < 0.010, respectively; injury severity: p = 0.027 and p < 0.001, respectively). In general, male and female athletes experienced a comparable risk of injury (rate ratio: 1.15; 95% confidence intervals: 0.53-2.46). Among the male and female South Korean elite aquatic athletes training for the Olympic Games, most injuries were mild and occurred in the upper limb, and aquatic style influenced injury body location and severity.		[Kim, Hyun Chul] Korean Sport & Olymp Comm, Dept Med & Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Ki Jun] Dankook Univ, Dept Special Educ Phys & Occupat Therapy, Yongin, South Korea; [Park, Ki Jun] Dept PHILLIP SRP, Sports Club PHILLIP, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Ki Jun] Dankook Univ, Dept Special Educ Phys & Occupat Therapy, Yongin, South Korea; [Park, Ki Jun] Dept PHILLIP SRP, Sports Club PHILLIP, Seoul, South Korea								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300018	36	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Zhi Jie; Lee, Wai Chun; Fu, Siu Ngor								One Session of Extracorporeal Shockwave Therapy-Induced Modulation on Tendon Shear Modulus is Associated with Reduction in Pain								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			309	316					JUN 2020	2020	The aim of the study was to examine the immediate effect of 1 session of extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) on patellar tendon stiffness and to explore the relationship between the change in tendon stiffness and the pain intensity. Thirty-four male athletes aged 22.2 +/- 3.8 with patellar tendinopathy were recruited. The participants were randomized into ESWT and sham groups. The ESWT group received 1500 impulses of ESWT at 4 Hz with maximal tolerable pain intensity and the sham group received intensities below 0.08 mJ/mm(2). Supersonic Shearwave Imaging (SSI) was used to measure tendon shear modulus (an index of tissue stiffness), and a visual analogue scale was used to quantify the pain intensity during compression with 10 lb (4.535 kg) pressure directed on the most tender part and then during a single-leg declined-squat test. A significant reduction in tendon shear modulus (from 57.4 +/- 25.5 kPa to 40.6 +/- 17.6kPa, p = 0.001) was detected in the ESWT receiving ESWT with an intensity from 0.13-0.33 mJ/mm(2) but not the sham group (from 47.7 +/- 17.1 kPa to 41.0 +/- 12.7 kPa; p = 0.06). In the ESWT group, the change in tendon shear modulus was associated with the change in the intensity of pain during single-legged declined-squat test (rho = 0.55; p = 0.023) but not pressure pain (p > 0.05). These findings suggest that one session of ESWT induces reduction of tendon stiffness in volleyball and basketball players with patellar tendinopathy. The reduction in tendon stiffness is associated with reduction in pain during single-legged declined-squat test.		[Zhang, Zhi Jie; Lee, Wai Chun] Orthoped Hosp Henan Prov, Luoyang Orthoped Hosp Henan Prov, Luoyang, Peoples R China; [Fu, Siu Ngor] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Fu, Siu Ngor] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300009	34	Article; Article		
J	Wilk, Michal; Gepfert, Mariola; Krzysztofik, Michal; Mostowik, Aleksandra; Filip, Aleksandra; Hajduk, Grzegorz; Zajac, Adam								Impact of Duration of Eccentric Movement in the One-Repetition Maximum Test Result in the Bench Press among Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	2			317	322					JUN 2020	2020	Scientific studies related to resistance training have considered many variables; however, the tempo of movement of particular repetitions is often neglected or not reported in resistance training practice and research. The aim of the study was to determine the effect of different duration of the eccentric (ECC) phase of movement on one-repetition maximum test (1RM) results during the bench press exercise (BP). Twenty-one strength trained females (age = 23.4 +/- 2.2 years, body mass = 52.3 +/- 6.7 kg), with a minimum one year of strength training experience took part in the study. The experiment was conducted following a randomized crossover design, where each participant completed the 1RM test in the BP with three different duration times of the ECC movement: 2/0/X, 4/0/X, 6/0/X. Concentric (CON) movement was performed with maximal velocity (X). The ANOVA with repeated measures were used to compare the differences between the analyzed variables. The results of the study indicated the maximal load in the 1RM test was significantly higher during the BP with the 2/0/X tempo compared to 6/0/X (p < 0.01) and 4/0/X tempos (p < 0.01). Therefore, the results indicated that the longer the duration of the ECC phase of movement, the greater the decrease in the result of the 1RM test. The 1RM test procedure should include information about the movement tempo used during the test protocol.		[Wilk, Michal; Gepfert, Mariola; Krzysztofik, Michal; Mostowik, Aleksandra; Filip, Aleksandra; Zajac, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Hajduk, Grzegorz] Galen Orthopaed, Ul Jerzego 6, PL-43150 Bierun, Poland; [Wilk, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								48							Sport Sciences	WOS:000530037300010	25	Article; Article		
J	Drikos, Sotirios; Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos; Barzouka, Karolina; Angelonidis, Yannis								The contribution of skills in the interpretation of a volleyball set result with minimum score difference across genders								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	4			542	551	1747954120930307	10.1177/1747954120930307			AUG 2020	2020	The aim of the present study was to identify volleyball skills that best discriminate between winning and losing in a set with the minimum score difference of men's and women's volleyball. The data have been collected for men from 140 and for women from 98 teams' performances in all sets finished with 2 points difference between the top four teams in the final ranking during the men's and women's Greek Volleyball League for five seasons (2013-2014 until 2017-2018). The primary recorded and evaluated skills from 119 sets for men and women respectively are: 4.422 and 2.419 serves, 2916 and 2.120 passes, 2566 and 1656 attacks after serve's pass, 1518 and 1804 counter-attacks (after defense) and 1595 and 818 blocks. For the evaluation scale of each skill, a six-level ordinal scale was employed, with the value of "one" indicating a poorly executed skill and the value of "six" an excellent executed skill. The analysis revealed significant multivariate differences in gender and in the type of result and not in their interaction. A follow-up discriminant analysis showed that attack 1 is the most important performance indicator for male teams. Meanwhile, for female teams, the most important performance indicators are winning attack after serve's pass but also counter-attack. The discriminant function classified correctly 67% and 58%, for men and women respectively, allowing space for further improving the critical performance indicators for both genders.		[Drikos, Sotirios; Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos; Barzouka, Karolina; Angelonidis, Yannis] Natl Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Athens, Greece; [Drikos, Sotirios] Ethnikis Antistasis 41, Athens, Greece								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000537183300001	39	Article; Article		
J	Macadam, Paul; Cronin, John B.; Uthoff, Aaron M.; Nagahara, Ryu; Zois, James; Diewald, Shelley; Tinwala, Farhan; Neville, Jono								Thigh loaded wearable resistance increases sagittal plane rotational work of the thigh resulting in slower 50-m sprint times								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	10			1291	1302		10.1080/14763141.2020.1762720			NOV 26 2022	2022	This study determined the acute changes in rotational work with thigh attached wearable resistance (WR) of 2% body mass during 50-m sprint-running. Fourteen athletes completed sprints with, and without, WR in a randomised order. Sprint times were measured via timing gates at 10-m and 50-m. Rotational kinematics were obtained over three phases (steps 1-2, 3-6 and 7-10) via inertial measurement unit attached to the left thigh. Quantification of thigh angular displacement and peak thigh angular velocity was subsequently derived to measure rotational work. The WR condition was found to increase sprint times at 10-m (1.4%, effect size [ES] 0.38, p 0.06) and 50-m (1.9%, ES 0.55, p 0.04). The WR condition resulted in trivial to small increases in angular displacement of the thigh during all phases (0.6-3.4%, ES 0.04-0.26, p 0.09-0.91). A significant decrease in angular velocity of the thigh was found in all step phases (-2.5% to -8.0%, ES 0.17-0.51, p < 0.001-0.04), except extension in step phase 1 with the WR. Rotational work was increased (9.8-18.8%, ES 0.35-0.53, p < 0.001) with WR in all phases of the sprint. Thigh attached WR provides a means to significantly increase rotational work specific to sprinting.		[Macadam, Paul; Cronin, John B.; Uthoff, Aaron M.; Diewald, Shelley; Tinwala, Farhan; Neville, Jono] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Kanoya, Japan; [Zois, James] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Macadam, Paul] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000541278500001	24	Article; Article		
J	Delvaux, Francois; Schwartz, Cedric; Rodriguez, Carlos; Forthomme, Benedicte; Kaux, Jean-Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis								Preseason assessment of anaerobic performance in elite soccer players: comparison of isokinetic and functional tests								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	5			689	703		10.1080/14763141.2020.1750681			MAY 4 2023	2023	Isokinetic and functional jump tests are frequently performed for assessing the physical qualities of soccer players during preseason. The purpose of this investigation was to explore, in an elite soccer players population, the relationships between isokinetic strength and functional jump performances. Thirty-eight professional soccer players were evaluated as follows: isokinetic knee assessment in concentric (CON) mode (60, 240 degrees/s) for quadriceps and hamstrings, and in eccentric (ECC) mode for the hamstrings only (30 degrees/s); one-leg hop tests for distance (single hop (SH), triple hop (TH) and triple crossover hop (TCH)); one-leg vertical jump tests (countermovement jump, drop jump). Players with a low bodyweight normalised (BWN) quadriceps (Q) strength (<2.71 Nm/kg) performed, for a majority of the measured variables, significantly reduced jump performances compared to the players with high BWN Q strength (>3.14 Nm/kg; p < 0.05). Greater bilateral differences between uninjured and past injured lower limbs were found with isokinetics (Q CON 60 degrees/s (mean bilateral difference (MBD): 10.3%; p < 0.01), Q CON 240 degrees/s (MBD: 9.9%; p < 0.05), H ECC 30 degrees/s (MBD: 16.1%; p < 0.001) than with functional tests (MBD: 2 to 9%; p > 0.05. In conclusion, due to their complementary role and implications for performance, functional and isokinetic tests should be associated in a preseason soccer players assessment.		[Delvaux, Francois; Schwartz, Cedric; Rodriguez, Carlos; Forthomme, Benedicte; Kaux, Jean-Francois; Croisier, Jean-Louis] Univ Liege, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Liege, Belgium; [Delvaux, Francois; Schwartz, Cedric; Forthomme, Benedicte; Croisier, Jean-Louis] Univ Liege, Lab Human Mot Anal, Liege, Belgium; [Delvaux, Francois] Univ Liege, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Liege, Belgium; [Delvaux, Francois] Univ Liege, Lab Human Mot Anal, Liege, Belgium								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000541280000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Fruchart, Eric; Rulence-Paques, Patricia; Nicole, Cantisano								Mapping ethical positions with regard to a coach's decision to select (or not) an injured athlete								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	4			467	480	1747954120925593	10.1177/1747954120925593			AUG 2020	2020	The study's objective was to map ethical positions with regard to the way in which 219 participants (45 non-athletes, 91 amateur athletes, 28 professional athletes, 17 amateur coaches, 8 professional coaches, and 30 physiotherapists) used various informational cues (an athlete's indispensability for the team, the importance of the competition, the opinion given by sports medicine professionals, and the injured athlete's attitude) to judge the acceptability of a coach's decision to select (or not) an injured athlete just before a competition. The participants specified their judgment of acceptability in 16 scenarios created by combining these information cues under two conditions (selection and non-selection). The data were analyzed using cluster analyses, analyses of variance, and chi-squared tests. We found four clusters. Not selecting an injured athlete was always judged to be acceptable. The four clusters differed in terms of the type of role in sport and the level of acceptability of selecting an injured athlete. A coach's decision with regard to an athlete's health may be judged differently, according to the rater's profile. Enabling athletes to compete while injured might violate ethical principles. Coaches and medical staff should also be aware of and understand their legal responsibilities.		[Fruchart, Eric] Univ Perpignan, Lab Europeen Performance Sante Altitude, UFRSTAPS, UR 4604,Via Domitia, F-66120 Font Romeu, France; [Rulence-Paques, Patricia] Univ Lille, ULR 4072, PSITEC Psychol Interact Temps Emot Cognit, Lille, France; [Nicole, Cantisano] Univ Toulouse Jean Jaures, Ctr Etud & Rech Psychopathol & Psychol Sant6 CERP, Toulouse, France; [Fruchart, Eric] Univ Perpignan, Lab Europeen Performance Sante Altitude, UFRSTAPS, UR 4604,Via Domitia, F-66120 Font Romeu, France								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000536527400001	64	Article; Article		
J	Pianese, Tommasina								Interpreting sports events from a resource-based view perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	2			240	261		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2019-0095			APR 6 2021	2021	Purpose This study aims at understanding how professional sports events compete with each other to attract spectators, sponsors and media coverage, by referring to the resource-based view (RBV) theory, which interprets firms as a bundle of idiosyncratic resources and capabilities. Specifically, the authors aim to identify the value-creating resources that support event success in the long run. Design/methodology/approach The authors conducted a literature review on RBV and sports events, which provided the analytic categories used for on a cross-case analysis of popular cycling events held in Italy. Findings Each event has different value-creating resources, depending on its governance model. Specifically, organisational knowledge accumulated over time by a stable event promoter/organiser enables an understanding of stakeholders' needs and leads to a competitive advantage. As for events with temporary organising committees, event reputation is decisive to their long-term success. Here, event promoters play a key role in managing reputation over time, i.e., properly selecting host countries, balancing their cultural differences and supporting their capacity to produce long-term benefits. Originality/value Sports events may be leveraged within place-branding strategies to increase the attractiveness and level of socio-economic development of a destination. It is thus important to understand the competitive dynamics among sports events. The existing studies have focused on event organisers while underestimating the contribution of sports organisations and/or private companies that promote sport events. This study adopts a broad perspective that takes account of both promoters and organisers in order to verify whether and how the governance model affects the resources relevant to the event's success.		[Pianese, Tommasina] CNR, Inst Studies Mediterranean, Naples, Italy; [Pianese, Tommasina] CNR, Inst Studies Mediterranean, Naples, Italy								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000536358500001	92	Article; Article		
J	Lu, Shanshan; Zhu, Weiwei; Wei, Jiuchang								The relationships of communication intensity, CEO commitment, cause fit and media reputation: evidence from Chinese marathon title sponsors								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				22	2			220	239		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2019-0130			APR 6 2021	2021	Purpose This research aims to explore ways to build a corporate media reputation by sponsoring a sports event (i.e. a marathon), by examining the effects of communication intensity, CEO commitment and cause fit that are most conducive to helping a sponsor gain media reputation benefits. Design/methodology/approach An empirical study of 122 Chinese marathon title sponsorships is employed that explores the relationship between sponsorship attributes and media reputation construction from the perspective of cause-related marketing theory. Hypotheses are tested with hierarchical regression and interaction analysis. Findings The results show that a high level of sponsorship communication intensity, the proximity of the sponsor to a sport property, the level of CEO commitment and the level of cause fit contribute to the media reputation of enterprise sponsors. Further analysis also reveals the different interaction effects of technical fit and institutional fit in the process. Practical implications This research has practical implications related to sport sponsorship management for event organizers and business operators that seek to promote the healthy and dynamic operations of the sponsor market. Several suggestions for future studies and strategies to increase the media reputation benefits can be drawn from the results of this paper. Sports sponsoring is a process of system engineering and strategic planning, and the integration and coordination of various types of resources are needed. Originality/value This study advances the current research about the impact of sponsorship attributes on the media reputation of sports sponsors. The differentiation and exploration of the two kinds of cause fit (i.e. technical fit and institutional fit) expand the dimension of fit in the field of sponsorship. Furthermore, this research provides an in-depth understanding of the mechanism that determines the media reputation benefits that sponsors can reap from a property's activities.		[Lu, Shanshan; Zhu, Weiwei] Hefei Univ Technol, Hefei, Peoples R China; [Wei, Jiuchang] Univ Sci & Technol China, Hefei, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Weiwei] Hefei Univ Technol, Hefei, Peoples R China								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000536169100001	99	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Hyun-Woo; Cho, Heetae; Newell, Emily M.; Kwon, Woong								How multiple identities shape behavioral intention: place and team identification on spectator attendance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	4			719	734		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2019-0097			NOV 2 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this study was to investigate the complexity of how spectators' multiple identities influence their behavioral intention. Specifically, the authors examined the effects of spectators' place identification, team identification and an interaction effect on attendance intention using social identity complexity framework. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected from spectators attending professional baseball games in South Korea. While 550 questionnaires were returned, 475 (86.36%) were used in the analysis after excluding incomplete responses. The research model was tested using latent moderated structural equations modeling. Findings Results indicated place identification only influenced attendance intentions through an interaction effect, while team identity directly affects attendance intention. Highly identified sport consumers intended to attend future games regardless of place identification, while the sense of love for the team's home region motivated low-identified sport consumers more to attend future games. Originality/value The findings of this research led to understanding the relationships between multiple identities and behavioral intention and provided the spectator sport industry with valuable strategies to manage their sport consumers.		[Lee, Hyun-Woo] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Hlth & Kinesiol, College Stn, TX USA; [Cho, Heetae] Nanyang Technol Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Newell, Emily M.] Univ Southern Maine, Sch Business, Portland, ME USA; [Kwon, Woong] Hanyang Univ, Coll Sports & Art, Seoul, South Korea; [Cho, Heetae] Nanyang Technol Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000536172600001	64	Article; Article		
J	McGibbon, K. E.; Pyne, D. B.; Shephard, M. E.; Osborne, M. A.; Thompson, K. G.								Contemporary practices of high-performance swimming coaches on pacing skill development and competition preparation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	4			495	505	1747954120926643	10.1177/1747954120926643			AUG 2020	2020	Pacing is arguably more crucial for optimal performance in swimming than in land-based sports, however little is known about the process of developing pacing skills in swimmers. The aim of this study was to examine the current practices of high-performance swimming coaches in relation to pacing entrainment and competition preparation. Twenty-one swimming coaches who were currently coaching or had coached swimmers at national open, international age or international open level, participated in a semi-structured interview. Interview transcripts were examined using hierarchical content (qualitative) analysis to identify general dimensions, higher-order themes and sub-themes. Data were categorised into two main areas: training and competition. The general dimensions of monitoring, pacing aids, periodisation and training for multiple events emerged within training; whereas optimal strategy, racing, warm up swims and multiple main events emerged within competition. Coaches identified the importance of a highly individualised approach based on swimmer needs and characteristics. However, the difficulty in achieving this goal when working with large groups of swimmers was identified as a challenge. Although swimming is a time-based sport, efficient technique and pacing were considered vital to success. Despite this, it appears that key variables including stroke rate, stroke count, split times and rating of perceived exertion were not monitored by a number of coaches. These parameters are likely important tools to maximise pacing skill development, especially in young swimmers. However, given the current lack of information on how athletes learn and develop pacing skills, coaches would benefit from evidence-based guidelines in this area.		[McGibbon, K. E.; Pyne, D. B.; Thompson, K. G.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [McGibbon, K. E.; Shephard, M. E.] Queensland Acad Sport, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Osborne, M. A.] Swimming Australia Ltd, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Thompson, K. G.] New South Wales Inst Sport, Sydney Olympic Pk, NSW, Australia; [McGibbon, K. E.] Univ Canberra, Univ Canberra Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bldg 29, Bruce, ACT 2601, Australia								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000535502200001	27	Article; Article		
J	Solomito, Matthew J.; Garibay, Erin J.; Cohen, Andrew D.; Nissen, Carl W.								The influence of trunk mechanics on the assessment of elbow position in college aged pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	7			787	797		10.1080/14763141.2020.1762719			JUL 3 2023	2023	Researchers have postulated that the rise in the incidence of pitching injuries is partially due to poor pitching mechanics. A topic that is often debated revolves around the correct positioning of the elbow in relationship to the body. Therefore, this study attempts to understand the associations of vertical or horizontal elbow positon with upper extremity joint moments, and ball velocity, and how elbow position is influenced by trunk position. Motion analysis data from 99 collegiate pitchers were analysed for this study. A random intercept, mixed-effects regression model was used to determine if statistically significant associations existed between elbow position and upper extremity joint moments and ball velocity. Results indicated that visual impressions of the elbow position were highly correlated with trunk position, whereas kinematic definitions of elbow position were correlated to the glenohumeral angle. Visual vertical and horizontal elbow position was associated with increased elbow varus moments (p = 0.001) and ball velocity (p = 0.019), respectively. Whereas kinematic elbow position was not associated with either upper extremity joint moments or ball velocity. Therefore, what coaches visually interpret as an improperly positioned elbow may actually be a combination of lateral lean, anterior tilt, and over rotation of the trunk.		[Solomito, Matthew J.; Garibay, Erin J.; Cohen, Andrew D.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Orthoped Res, Farmington, CT 06032 USA; [Nissen, Carl W.] Sports Ctr, Glastonbury, CT USA; [Nissen, Carl W.] Bone & Joint Inst, Hartford, CT USA; [Solomito, Matthew J.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Orthoped Res, Farmington, CT 06032 USA								0							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000536978700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Schools, Jordan A.; Fisher, Leslee A.; Moore, Matthew J.; Morris, Sierra, V; Egli, Trevor J.; Knust, Susannah K.								"It's more than just a game": NCCAA Division II student-athletes' perceptions of coach caring								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	4			481	494	1747954120926449	10.1177/1747954120926449			AUG 2020	2020	The construct of care within the coach-athlete relationship has only recently been examined. However, this research has yet to include athletes' perceptions of caring coaching practice. Thus, the primary purpose of the current study was to examine self-described Christian student-athletes' perceptions of coach caring practices. Therefore, the guiding research questions were: (a) in what ways do student-athletes feel that their coaches demonstrate care? (b) In what ways have student-athletes' religion/spirituality shaped the way they understand and perceive care? (c) Does proximity to a caring coach practice-that is, those who are still competing versus those who have graduated-influence the ways in which student-athletes view coach caring? Eleven current and former student-athletes (mean age = 26 years; seven males, four females) from four different sports (basketball, cross country, soccer, and tennis) at one NCCAA school were interviewed. Data analysis was conducted by a six-person research team using Consensual Qualitative Research. Five domains were constructed to represent Christian University(1)student-athlete perceptions of: (I) how they learned coach caring, (II) how they defined a lack of coach caring, (III) how they defined coach caring, (IV) how they perceived the expression of the caring climate, and (V) how they perceived the expression of the Christian caring climate.		[Schools, Jordan A.; Fisher, Leslee A.; Moore, Matthew J.; Morris, Sierra, V] Univ Tennessee, Sport Psychol & Motor Behav, Knoxville, TN USA; [Egli, Trevor J.] Johnson Univ, Sport & Fitness Leadership, Knoxville, TN USA; [Knust, Susannah K.] Walter Reed Army Inst Res, Silver Spring, MD USA; [Schools, Jordan A.] Univ Tennessee, HPER Bldg,1914 Andy Holt Ave, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000534925300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Plumb, Mandy S.; Hands, Beth; McIntyre, Fleur; Timler, Amanda								Self-Report Motor Competence in Adolescents Aged 12-18 Years in Regional and Rural Victoria (Australia)								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			388	398		10.1080/02701367.2020.1739606			JUL 3 2021	2021	Background: Poor motor skills are an increasing issue for adolescents in our local communities. In regional Victoria, almost 20% of children starting school in 2018 were considered at risk or developmentally vulnerable in the domain of physical health and wellbeing.Purpose: The aim of the current study was to examine factors (how adolescents perceive their fine and gross motor skills, activities of daily living, comparison to peers) of motor competence that may be important to adolescents in regional Victoria, Australia, using the Adolescent Motor Competence Questionnaire (AMCQ).Methods: A sample of 183 Australian adolescents ([138 females (M-age( )= 15.59 years,SD = 1.56); 45 males, (M-age( )= 15.82 years,SD = 1.95); 12-18 years old] completed the AMCQ.Results: The mean AMCQ score was 87.86 (SD = 7.55), with no significant difference between males (M= 89.67SD = 7.29) and females [M= 87.28SD = 7.56;t(181 = 1.86p=.065)]. A Principal Component Analysis (PCA), extracted five factors (Eiqenvalue of 1.389) explaining 43.46% of variance, representing,Ball Skills and Kinesthesis; Activities of Daily Living; Fine Motor and Gross Motor; Proprioception and Exteroception; Public Performance.Conclusion: The results highlight key factors important in describing an adolescent's motor competence within regional Victoria. With physical health a priority in local communities, understanding these factors is an important first, that which may inform development of physical activity interventions for adolescents.		[Plumb, Mandy S.] Federat Univ Australia, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Hands, Beth; McIntyre, Fleur; Timler, Amanda] Univ Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA; [Plumb, Mandy S.] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Exercise & Sport Sci, Cairns, Qld 4870, Australia; [Plumb, Mandy S.] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Cairns, Qld 4870, Australia								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000539148800001	59	Article; Article		
J	Pueringer, John; Cohn, Jason E.; Othman, Sammy; Shokri, Tom; Ducic, Yadranko; Sokoya, Mofiyinfolu								Tennis-related adult maxillofacial trauma injuries								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			64	67		10.1080/00913847.2020.1768451			JAN 2 2021	2021	Objectives: Tennis participation continues to increase amongst adults across the United States. The purpose of this study was to analyze trends in adult tennis-related facial injury epidemiology, demographics, diagnoses, and locations of injury. Materials and methods: The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System was evaluated for tennis-related facial injuries in adults from 2009 through 2018. Number of injuries were extrapolated, and data were analyzed for age, sex, specific injury diagnoses, locations, and discharge disposition. Descriptive statistics were used to present and describe variables of interest. Chi-squared testing (chi 2) was performed to compare categorical variables. Results: During the study period, 342 tennis-related facial trauma ED visits were analyzed. Lacerations were the most common injury (45%), followed by contusions or abrasions (33.3%), concussions (11.7%), and fractures (8.5%). The most common sites of injury were the face (47.4%) and head (27.2%) regions. Males accounted for 62.0% of injuries, while females accounted for the remaining 38.0%. Patients between 34-65 years-old accounted for 47.7% of all injuries, and athletes over 65 years-old had the highest rate of fractures (10.1%). Conclusions: Facial trauma incurred secondary to tennis may follow patient-specific patterns. The incidence of tennis-related facial trauma is smaller compared to other sports, but the severity of such injuries remain a danger. Facial protection and enforcement in tennis is virtually absent, and these findings strengthen the need to educate athletes, families, and physicians on injury awareness and prevention.		[Pueringer, John] Philadelphia Coll Osteopath Med, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Cohn, Jason E.] Philadelphia Coll Osteopath Med, Dept Otolaryngol Head & Neck Surg, Philadelphia, PA USA; [Othman, Sammy] Drexel Univ, Coll Med, 2900 West Queen Lane, Philadelphia, PA 19129 USA; [Shokri, Tom] Penn State Hershey Med Ctr, Dept Otolaryngol Head & Neck Surg, Hershey, PA USA; [Ducic, Yadranko] Otolaryngol & Facial Plast Surg Associates, Dept Otolaryngol Head & Neck Surg, Ft Worth, TX USA; [Sokoya, Mofiyinfolu] Univ Arizona, Coll Med, Dept Otolaryngol Head & Neck Surg, Tucson, AZ USA; [Othman, Sammy] Drexel Univ, Coll Med, 2900 West Queen Lane, Philadelphia, PA 19129 USA								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000535119900001	31	Article; Article		
J	Singal, Aayush Kumar; Deepti, Siddharthan; Sharma, Gautam; Kothari, Shyam S.								Herculean mistake: mephentermine associated cardiomyopathy								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			116	122		10.1080/00913847.2020.1763146			JAN 2 2021	2021	Case presentation: A 32-year-old professional bodybuilder presented with acute decompensated heart failure. He gave a history of anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS) use for >2 years and mephentermine use for the preceding 3 months. Management: Transthoracic echocardiography showed severe left ventricular (LV) dysfunction with a large pedunculated, mobile thrombus attached to the ventricular apex. The patient had an embolic stroke during the hospital stay, with complete neurological recovery. Following the cessation of mephentermine use, there was a steady improvement in LV function over a follow-up of 2 months. However, at 3 months, his ventricular function showed deterioration, which coincided with mephentermine reuse. Take home message: Though AAS abuse by athletes leading to such a presentation has been documented, to the best of our knowledge, a similar role of mephentermine has not been reported.		[Singal, Aayush Kumar; Deepti, Siddharthan; Sharma, Gautam; Kothari, Shyam S.] All India Inst Med Sci AIIMS, Dept Cardiol, New Delhi, India; [Sharma, Gautam] All India Inst Med Sci AIIMS, Dept Cardiol, Cardio Thorac Sci Ctr CN Ctr, 7th Floor, New Delhi 110029, India								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000534160700001	15	Article; Article		
J	Bergman, Stephen A.; Logan, Trevon D.								Revenue per Quality of College Football Recruit								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	6			571	592	1527002520921223	10.1177/1527002520921223			AUG 2020	2020	There is significant debate about compensation of college athletes in revenue generating sports. In college football, the potential heterogeneity in player value has received little attention in the discussion. The relationship between player quality, team performance, and sport-specific revenue should inform any compensation scheme for college football players. In this article, we provide estimates of player monetary value in college football. This is the first study to exploit player-specific ex ante recruit ratings, team performance, and football-specific revenue and profit (revenue net of expenditures) to infer player valuations. This allows us to estimate value for players whose performance can be difficult to measure given traditional sport metrics. We use a unique data set which records individual recruits by ex ante star rating annually for every Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) school and combine that data with data on team performance, bowl appearances by type, and football-specific revenue. Using a valuation approach which links player-specific quality to team performance and subsequently to revenue, we infer the value of recruits by their ex ante recruit rating. We estimate that five-star recruits increase annual revenue by US$650,000, four-star recruits increase revenue by roughly US$350,000, and three-star recruits increase revenue by US$150,000. Two-star recruits, however, are negatively related to revenue and profit, with two-star athletes reducing annual revenue by US$13,000. Overall, our results imply that player valuations are heterogeneous and that ex ante ratings of player quality are strongly related to school-specific football revenue and profit and may be predictive measures in a compensation scheme.		[Bergman, Stephen A.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Econ, 410 Arps Hall,1945 N High St, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Logan, Trevon D.] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, Dept Econ, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA; [Bergman, Stephen A.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Econ, 410 Arps Hall,1945 N High St, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000533124600001	15	Article; Article		
J	Farrow, Joshua; Steele, James; Behm, David G.; Skivington, Martin; Fisher, James P.								Lighter-Load Exercise Produces Greater Acute- and Prolonged-Fatigue in Exercised and Non-Exercised Limbs								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			369	379		10.1080/02701367.2020.1734521			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: The present study compared the fatigue and perceptual responses to volume-load matched heavier- and lighter-load resistance exercise to momentary failure in both a local/exercised, and non-local/non-exercised limb. Methods: Eleven resistance-trained men undertook unilateral maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) testing for knee extension prior to and immediately, 24 hr- and 48 hr- post heavier (80% MVC) and lighter (40% MVC) load dynamic unilateral knee extension exercise. Only the dominant leg of each participant was exercised to momentary failure using heavier and lighter loads, and perceptions of discomfort were measured immediately upon exercise cessation. Results: Point estimates and confidence intervals suggested that immediately post-exercise there was greater fatigue in both the exercised and non-exercised legs for the lighter-load condition. At 24 hr the exercised leg under the heavier-load condition had recovered to pre-exercise strength; however, the exercised leg under lighter-load condition had still not fully recovered by 48 hr. For the non-exercised leg, only the lighter-load condition induced fatigue; however, recovery had occurred by 48 hr. Median discomfort ratings were statistically significantly different (Z = -2.232, p = .026) between lighter and heavier loads (10 [IQR = 0] and 8 [IQR = 3], respectively). Conclusions: This study suggests that lighter-load resistance exercise induces greater fatigue in both the exercised- and non-exercised limbs, compared to heavier-load resistance exercise. These findings may have implications for exercise frequency as it may be possible to engage in heavier-load resistance exercise more frequently than a volume-load matched protocol using lighter loads.		[Farrow, Joshua; Steele, James; Skivington, Martin; Fisher, James P.] Solent Univ, Southampton, Hants, England; [Steele, James] Ukact Res Inst, London, England; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, St John, NF, Canada; [Fisher, James P.] Solent Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Social Sci, East Pk Terrace, Southampton SO14 0YN, Hants, England								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000534152100001	48	Article; Article		
J	Jeon, Min-Jae; Jeon, Hye-Seon; Yi, Chung-Hwi; Kwon, Oh-Yun; You, Sung-Hyun; Park, Joo-Hee								Block and Random Practice: A Wii Fit Dynamic Balance Training in Older Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			352	360		10.1080/02701367.2020.1733456			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: To compare the effectiveness of blocked and random practice schedules of balance training in dynamic balance abilities of older adults using Wii Fit balance game tasks. Method: Forty-one participants who were not receiving hospice care or living in a nursing home participated. Three Wii Fit balance tasks (tasks A, B, and C) were selected for training, and one task (task D) was selected as the transfer test among the nine tasks in the Wii Fit balance game software. Scores for tasks A and D were evaluated. Completion times for tasks B and C were evaluated. Moved distance for the functional reach test (FRT), completion time for the timed up and go test (TUG), and performance score for the Tinetti performance-oriented mobility assessment (POMA) were also tested as clinical balance assessment outcomes. Results: The training significantly improved the performance outcomes of clinical balance assessments and task D. There were no significant group x time interaction effects and no significant main effects by group during the acquisition and retention periods of tasks A, B, and C. However, significant main effects by time were observed for tasks A, B, and C. Conclusions: When dynamic balance training such as the Wii Fit balance system is administered to older adults in a clinical setting, either a block or a random practice schedule can be effectively used to improve the dynamic balance skills. Wii Fit-based balance training is clinically effective for improving the dynamic balance ability.		[Jeon, Min-Jae] Natl Rehabil Ctr, Wonju, South Korea; [Jeon, Hye-Seon; Yi, Chung-Hwi; Kwon, Oh-Yun; You, Sung-Hyun; Park, Joo-Hee] Yonsei Univ, Wonju Campus, Wonju, Kangwon Do, South Korea; [Jeon, Hye-Seon] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Coll Hlth Sci, Wonju, Kangwon Do, South Korea								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000534412100001	35	Article; Article		
J	McCormack, Sam; Jones, Ben; Till, Kevin								Training Practices of Academy Rugby League and their Alignment to Physical Qualities Deemed Important for Current and Future Performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	4			512	525	1747954120924905	10.1177/1747954120924905			AUG 2020	2020	This study aimed to investigate rugby league coaches' perceptions of physical qualities for current and future performance, while also establishing the training practices of under-16 and under-19 players. Twenty-four practitioners (rugby coach, strength and conditioning coach) working within nine Super League clubs completed a questionnaire. The questionnaire required practitioners to rank eleven physical qualities (i.e. strength, power, acceleration, maximum speed, aerobic endurance, change of direction, agility, height, body mass, lean mass and fat mass) by importance for current performance, future performance and career longevity according to playing position (forwards, backs, hookers and halves). Practitioners were asked to provide detail on the frequency and duration of each type of training session completed during a typical week throughout each phase of the season; pre-season, in-season (early), in-season (mid) and in-season (late). Typically, practitioners ranked strength, power and acceleration qualities highest, and endurance and anthropometric qualities lowest. The importance of physical qualities varied according to each playing level and position. Training practices of under-16 and under-19 players differed during each phase of the season, with under-19 players undertaking greater training volumes than under-16s players. Overall, the physical qualities coaches perceived as most important were not reflected within their training practices. Rugby league practitioners can use this information as a reference source to design long term athletic development plans, prescribe training and during player development procedures. Moreover, these data can inform and improve training practices while influencing the design of pre-season preparatory phases and in-season periods.		[McCormack, Sam; Jones, Ben; Till, Kevin] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [McCormack, Sam; Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben; Till, Kevin] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Univ New England, Sch Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Jones, Ben] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben] Sports Sci Inst South Africa, Cape Town, South Africa; [McCormack, Sam] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Cavendish G 12,Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QU, W Yorkshire, England								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000533240100001	61	Article; Article		
J	Monseau, Aaron J.; Balcik, Brenden J.; Roberts, Luke; Andrews, Reed; Sharon, Melinda J.								Initially concealed concussion lowers in-game performance of NCAA Division I football players: a case series								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			51	56		10.1080/00913847.2020.1763145			JAN 2 2021	2021	Objectives: Many athletes conceal concussion symptoms to continue to play. If athletes and coaches knew that performance drops significantly after a concussion, in turn hurting the team, athletes may be more prone to report concussion symptoms. The objective of our research was to report three cases that support this performance decline after an undisclosed concussion. Methods: This is a case series of three NCAA Division I football players who did not immediately report their concussions. The play in which the concussion occurred was identified via video review then the players' pre and post-injury performance grades, as scored by their position coaches, were recorded. Additional data regarding their performance in other games and their concussion assessments were also recorded. Results: Three injuries were identified and reviewed. Player 1 had a pre-injury performance score of 76/100 with a post-injury score of 47/100. This was a drop of 29 points for a decrease in his in-game performance by 38%. Player 2 had a pre-injury score of 100/100 with a post-injury score of 60/100. This was a drop of 40 points or a 40% decrease in his in-game performance. Player 3 had a pre-injury score of 67/100 and a post-injury score of 43/100 for a drop of 24 points or a 36% decrease in his in-game performance. Conclusions: We reported three college football players who suffered concussions but did not immediately disclose their symptoms. Each had a marked decrease in performance grades after their concussion. If the performance effect of a concussion can be quantified, athletes and coaches may begin to change their mind-set that a concussion can be 'played through.' This case series should serve as a first step in quantifying concussion effects on performance.		[Monseau, Aaron J.; Balcik, Brenden J.] West Virginia Univ, Sch Med, Dept Emergency Med, 1 Med Ctr Dr, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Roberts, Luke; Andrews, Reed] West Virginia Univ, Sch Med, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Sharon, Melinda J.] Marshall Univ, Sch Med, Morgantown, WV USA; [Monseau, Aaron J.] West Virginia Univ, Sch Med, Dept Emergency Med, 1 Med Ctr Dr, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000534886400001	35	Article; Article		
J	Shao, Shirui; Yu, Changxiao; Song, Yang; Baker, Julien S.; Ugbolue, Ukadike C.; Lanzoni, Ivan Malagoli; Gu, Yaodong								Mechanical character of lower limb for table tennis cross step maneuver								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	4			552	561	1747954120922936	10.1177/1747954120922936			AUG 2020	2020	The agile footwork is a basic but important skill, how to efficiently grasp and improve its performance has always interested coaches and athletes, beginners particularly. The purpose of this study was to investigate the differences in kinetics and kinematics of the cross step between professional athletes and novice athletes using the Oxford foot model. Twenty-two male participants (professional athletes, 11; novice athletes, 11) with dominant right feet participated in the table tennis cross step test. A Vicon motion analysis system and a Novel Pedar insole plantar pressure measurement system were used to record kinematic and kinetic data, respectively. Professional athletes showed significantly smaller forefoot plantarflexion and abduction, but larger hallux dorsiflexion at the cross step ending. In addition, they also showed significantly larger forefoot dorsiflexion and adduction but smaller forefoot eversion as well as rearfoot inversion than novice athletes at the forward-end of the step. In the entire motion, professional athletes performed significantly smaller joints range of motion, especially the hindfoot with respect to tibia angles. Concerning plantar relative load, professional athletes were significantly greater than that of novice athletes in the other toes, lateral forefoot and rear foot. Professional athletes possessed higher footwork agility and greater foot motor technique. The findings on the internal mechanisms of the cross step could help coaches and novice athletes understand the mechanical efficiencies in stroke finishing leading to improvements in performance.		[Shao, Shirui; Yu, Changxiao; Song, Yang; Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 818 Fenghua Rd, Ningbo, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Baker, Julien S.; Ugbolue, Ukadike C.] Univ West Scotland, Inst Clin Exercise & Hlth Sci, Sch Sci & Sport, Hamilton, Scotland; [Lanzoni, Ivan Malagoli] Univ Bologna, Sch Pharm Biotechnol & Sport Sci, Bologna, Italy; [Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 818 Fenghua Rd, Ningbo, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000532748500001	43	Article; Article		
J	Kramers, Sara; Turgeon, Stephanie; Bean, Corliss; Sabourin, Camille; Camire, Martin								Examining the roles of coaching experience and coach training on coaches' perceived life skills teaching								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	4			576	583	1747954120922367	10.1177/1747954120922367			AUG 2020	2020	The present study examined the roles of coaching experience and coach training on coaches' perceived life skills teaching. Canadian high school sport coaches (N = 1356) completed a demographic questionnaire and the Coaching life skills in sport questionnaire. Results suggested that coaches with more experience perceived themselves to discuss and practice life skills and transfer to a greater extent than coaches with less experience. No significant differences were observed based on whether coaches completed coach training, and the interaction effect between coaching experience and coach training was non-significant. Implications for coach education programs are discussed regarding training coaches to explicitly teach life skills through sport.		[Kramers, Sara; Sabourin, Camille; Camire, Martin] Univ Ottawa, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Turgeon, Stephanie] Univ Montreal, Fac Arts & Sci, Sch Psychoeducat, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Bean, Corliss] Univ British Columbia, Fac Hlth & Social Dev, Sch Exercise & Hlth Sci, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Kramers, Sara] 125 Univ Private,Montpetit Hall, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000532738400001	46	Article; Article		
J	Wells, Meredith D.; Dickin, D. Clark; Popp, Jennifer; Wang, Henry								Effect of downhill running grade on lower extremity loading in female distance runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	3			333	341		10.1080/14763141.2018.1510538			MAY 3 2020	2020	Hill running is often used as a foundational training mechanism to build strength and speed. Distance runners in particular are at an increased likelihood of encountering steep hills during training runs. There is limited research regarding downhill running, and there is no research available on the biomechanics of females specifically during downhill running. The purpose of this study was to quantify the differences in loading when running downhill at different grades compared to a level surface in female distance runners to determine the potential risk for injury. Fifteen female distance runners (age: 23.5 +/- 4.9 y), who ran 56.3 +/- 20.9 km a week participated in this study. Participants ran on a force-instrumented treadmill at 4.0 m/s for 2 min at 0%, -5%, -10%, -15%, and -20% grades, with 5 min of rest between conditions. Study findings showed increased impact forces (p < 0.001), and increased loading rates (p < 0.001) with increasing downhill grades compared to level. These results indicate a significantly greater risk of overuse injury to the lower extremity with steeper downhill grades. Individuals need to be aware of these risks to plan and implement training programmes that will increase performance while minimising injury risk.		[Wells, Meredith D.] Georgia State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Wells, Meredith D.; Dickin, D. Clark; Popp, Jennifer; Wang, Henry] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Wells, Meredith D.] Georgia State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Wells, Meredith D.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527152300005	22	Article; Article		
J	Watanabe, Kohei; Nunome, Hiroyuki; Inoue, Koichiro; Iga, Takahiro; Akima, Hiroshi								Electromyographic analysis of hip adductor muscles in soccer instep and side-foot kicking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	3			295	306		10.1080/14763141.2018.1499800			MAY 3 2020	2020	A possible link between soccer-specific injuries, such as groin pain and the action of hip adductor muscles has been suggested. This study aimed to investigate neuromuscular activation of the adductor magnus (AM) and longus (AL) muscles during instep and side-foot soccer kicks. Eight university soccer players performed the two types of kick at 50%, 75% and 100% of the maximal ball speed. Surface electromyography (EMG) was recorded from the AM, AL, vastus lateralis (VL) and biceps femoris (BF) muscles of both kicking and supporting legs and the kicking motions were three-dimensionally captured. In the kicking leg, an increase in surface EMG with an increase in ball speed during instep kicking was noted in the AM muscle (p < 0.016), but not in AL, VL or BF muscles (p > 0.016). In the supporting leg, surface EMG of both AM and AL muscles was significantly increased with an increase in the ball speed before ball impact during both instep and side-foot kicks (p < 0.016). These results suggest that hip adductor muscles markedly contribute to either the kicking or supporting leg to emphasise the action of soccer kicks.		[Watanabe, Kohei] Chukyo Univ, Sch Int Liberal Studies, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Nunome, Hiroyuki; Iga, Takahiro] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Japan; [Inoue, Koichiro] Yamagata Univ, Fac Educ Art & Sci, Yamagata, Japan; [Akima, Hiroshi] Nagoya Univ, Res Ctr Hlth Phys Fitness & Sports, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Watanabe, Kohei] Chukyo Univ, Sch Int Liberal Studies, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527152300002	30	Article; Article		
J	Caravaggi, Paolo; Leardini, Alberto; Belvedere, Claudio; Siegler, Sorin								A novel Cervical Spine Protection device for reducing neck injuries in contact sports: design concepts and preliminary <i>in vivo</i> testing*								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	3			382	394		10.1080/14763141.2018.1481222			MAY 3 2020	2020	Head and neck injuries are common in contact sports such as American football. Different mechanisms can produce such injuries, including compressive impact forces on the crown of the helmet with the neck in a flexed chin-down position. The aim of this paper was developing and testing a novel Cervical Spine Protection Device (CSPD) designed to keep the neck within its safe physiological range. The cervical spine range of motion (ROM) of ten participants was measured under four conditions: free; wearing a football gear; wearing the CSPD; and wearing the CSPD underneath the gear. The CSPD was tested in terms of passive and active restraint of head motion, and for its capability to improve endurance time of the neck extensor muscles. Wearing the CSPD resulted in a significant 40-60% reduction in ROM across the three anatomical planes, and in increased endurance of the neck extensor muscles (FREE: 114 +/- 57 s; CSPD: 214 +/- 95 s; p = 0.004). In quasi-static loading conditions the CSPD was capable of keeping the neck within its physiological range, thus it may be used to decrease the risk of severe injuries due to dangerous chin-down positions.		[Caravaggi, Paolo; Leardini, Alberto; Belvedere, Claudio] Rizzoli Orthoped Inst, Movement Anal Lab, Bologna, Italy; [Siegler, Sorin] Drexel Univ, Dept Mech Engn & Mech, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Siegler, Sorin] Drexel Univ, Dept Mech Engn & Mech, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527152300009	37	Article; Article		
J	Leporace, Gustavo; Tannure, Marcio; Zeitoune, Gabriel; Metsavaht, Leonardo; Marocolo, Moacir; Maior, Alex								Association between knee-to-hip flexion ratio during single-leg vertical landings, and strength and range of motion in professional soccer players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	3			411	420		10.1080/14763141.2018.1494207			MAY 3 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to test the correlation between knee-to-hip flexion ratio during a single leg landing task and hip and knee strength, and ankle range of motion. Twenty-four male participants from a professional soccer team performed a continuous single leg jump-landing test during 10s, while lower limb kinematics data were collected using a motion analysis system. After biomechanical testing, maximal isometric hip (abduction, extension, external rotation), knee extension and flexion strength were measured. Maximum ankle dorsiflexion range of motion was assessed statically using the weight bearing lunge test. Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated to determine the associations between the predictor variables (knee and hip strength, and ankle ROM) and the main outcome measure (knee-to-hip flexion ratio). Correlation between knee-to-hip flexion ratio and hip abductors strength was significant (r = -0.47; p = 0.019). No other significant correlations were observed among the variables (p > 0.05). These results demonstrated that a lower hip abductors strength in male soccer players was correlated with a high knee-to-hip flexion ratio during landing from a single leg jump, potentially increasing knee overload by decreasing energy absorption at the hip. The results provide a novel proposal for the functioning of hip muscles to control knee overload.		[Leporace, Gustavo; Zeitoune, Gabriel; Metsavaht, Leonardo] Inst Brazil Technol Hlth, Dept Res Biomech, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Tannure, Marcio] Performance Excellence Ctr, Flamengo Sport Club, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Zeitoune, Gabriel] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Biomed Engn Program, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Marocolo, Moacir] Univ Fed Juiz De Fora, Inst Biol Sci, Dept Physiol, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Maior, Alex] Univ Augusto Mota, Dept Rehabil Sci, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Leporace, Gustavo] Inst Brazil Technol Hlth, Dept Res Biomech, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527152300011	32	Article; Article		
J	Nakano, Nobuyasu; Fukashiro, Senshi; Yoshioka, Shinsuke								The effect of increased shooting distance on energy flow in basketball jump shot								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	3			366	381		10.1080/14763141.2018.1480728			MAY 3 2020	2020	The aim of this study is to clarify the effect of shooting distance on energy flow in basketball jump shot. Ten male right-handed basketball players participated in this study, and three successful shots at three different distances (short condition, equating to a free-throw; long condition, equating to a three-point shot; and mid condition, equating to the mid-point of the short- and long-condition shots) were recorded using a motion capture system and force platforms. Kinetic variables of joints during shooting were analysed using inverse dynamics method. Our results showed that the joint work was not significantly different for short- and mid-condition shots; however, the amount of energy transferred from the torso to the shooting arm by the shoulder joint force increased significantly for the mid-condition shots (as opposed to 0.45 +/- 0.11 J/kg,), whereas between the mid- and long-conditions, it was found that the joint work in the lower limbs increased significantly (3.3 +/- 0.5 as opposed to 3.9 +/- 0.5 J/kg, p < 0.001). These results suggest that sufficient energy transfer from the lower limbs to the shoot arms is important to keep the motions of the shooting arms approximately constant when shooting from various distances.		[Nakano, Nobuyasu; Fukashiro, Senshi; Yoshioka, Shinsuke] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Nakano, Nobuyasu] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Arts & Sci, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan								22							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527152300008	43	Article; Article		
J	Todd, Samuel D.; Wiles, Jonathan D.; Coleman, Damian A.; Brown, Mathew B.								Partial swing golf shots: scaled from full swing or independent technique?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	3			353	365		10.1080/14763141.2018.1480727			MAY 3 2020	2020	During practice and competition, golfers are required to use submaximal effort to hit the ball a given distance, i.e., perform a partial shot. While the full golf swing has undergone extensive research, little has addressed partial shots and the biomechanical modifications golfers employ. This study investigates the biomechanical changes between full and partial swings, and determines if the partial swing is a scaled version of the full swing. Using a repeated measures design, 13 male golfers completed a minimum of 10 swings in the full and partial swing conditions, whilst club, ball, kinematic, and kinetic parameters were recorded. Large and statistically significant reductions in body motion (centre of pressure ellipse: 33.0%, p = 0.004, d = 2.26), combined with moderate reductions in lateral shift (25.5%, p = 0.004, d = 0.33) and smaller reductions in trunk rotation (arm to vertical at top of backswing: 14.1%, p = 0.002, d = 2.58) indicate golfers favour larger reductions in proximal measures, combined with diminished reductions as variables moved distally. Furthermore, the partial swing was not found to be a scaled version of the full swing implying a new approach to coaching practices might be considered.		[Todd, Samuel D.; Wiles, Jonathan D.; Coleman, Damian A.; Brown, Mathew B.] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Sch Human & Life Sci, Sect Sport & Exercise Sci, Canterbury, Kent, England; [Brown, Mathew B.] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Sch Human & Life Sci, Sect Sport & Exercise Sci, Canterbury, Kent, England								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527152300007	37	Article; Article		
J	Irwin, Gareth; Kerwin, David G.; Williams, Genevieve; Van Emmerik, Richard E. A.; Newell, Karl M.; Hamill, Joseph								Multidimensional joint coupling: a case study visualisation approach to movement coordination and variability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	3			322	332		10.1080/14763141.2018.1475579			MAY 3 2020	2020	A case study visualisation approach to examining the coordination and variability of multiple interacting segments is presented using a whole-body gymnastic skill as the task example. One elite male gymnast performed 10 trials of 10 longswings whilst three-dimensional locations of joint centres were tracked using a motion analysis system. Segment angles were used to define coupling between the arms and trunk, trunk and thighs and thighs and shanks. Rectified continuous relative phase profiles for each interacting couple for 80 longswings were produced. Graphical representations of coordination couplings are presented that include the traditional single coupling, followed by the relational dynamics of two couplings and finally three couplings simultaneously plotted. This method highlights the power of visualisation of movement dynamics and identifies properties of the global interacting segmental couplings that a more formal analysis may not reveal. Visualisation precedes and informs the appropriate qualitative and quantitative analysis of the dynamics.		[Irwin, Gareth; Kerwin, David G.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Cardiff, Wales; [Williams, Genevieve] Univ Exeter, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Exeter, Devon, England; [Van Emmerik, Richard E. A.; Hamill, Joseph] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Kinesiol, Biomech Lab, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Newell, Karl M.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Irwin, Gareth] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Cardiff, Wales								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527152300004	28	Article; Article		
J	Nagano, Yasuharu; Sasaki, Shogo; Higashihara, Ayako; Ichikawa, Hiroshi								Movements with greater trunk accelerations and their properties during badminton games								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	3			342	352		10.1080/14763141.2018.1478989			MAY 3 2020	2020	This study aimed to elucidate the movements requiring greater trunk accelerations and its frequencies during badminton games, and compare the acceleration components among such movements. Trunk acceleration was measured using a triaxial accelerometer during badminton games. The moments that generated >4 G resultant acceleration were extracted, and movements consistent with the extracted moments were identified. We calculated the extracted movement ratio and frequency and compared the resultant, mediolateral, vertical and anteroposterior accelerations between the top five extracted movements. There were 1,342 movements that generated >4 G [mean, 7.72 (95% confidence interval, 7.31-8.14) cases/min]. The top five movements were lunging during underhand strokes with the dominant hand side leg, landing after overhand strokes on the dominant and non-dominant hand side leg, and cutting from a split step using the dominant and non-dominant hand side leg. Landing on the dominant hand side leg had a greater resultant acceleration than the other movements and had the greatest impact during the badminton game. Lunging during underhand strokes on the dominant hand side leg had greater mediolateral acceleration than the other movements. These results reflected the properties of badminton.		[Nagano, Yasuharu] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports Wellness Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Sasaki, Shogo] Tokyo Ariake Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Higashihara, Ayako] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Ichikawa, Hiroshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Dept Hlth & Sports, Niigata, Japan; [Nagano, Yasuharu] Japan Womens Coll Phys Educ, Dept Sports Wellness Sci, Tokyo, Japan								19							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527152300006	20	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Luis; Fernandez-Rio, Javier; Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo; Blanco-Traba, Miguel; Jakobsen, Markus Due; Gonzalez-Diez, Vicente; Franchini, Emerson; Gutierrez, Carlos; Dopico-Calvo, Xurxo; Carballeira-Fernandez, Eduardo; Amonette, William; Suman, Oscar								Postural control and physiological responses to a simulated match in U-20 judo competitors								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	3			281	294		10.1080/14763141.2018.1461237			MAY 3 2020	2020	The aim was to evaluate the effects of judo combat on the athletes' postural control (PC) and physiological loading before, during and after a simulated match. Seventeen under-20 regional and national level athletes completed one modified 7-min match. At baseline, during the combat (3rd and 7th minutes) and 2-min post-match centre of pressure (CoP) parameters were assessed. Heart rate (HR), blood lactate (BLa) and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) and local RPE (LRPE) were collected. Significant increments were observed in CoP mean positioning and velocity at 3rd and 7th minutes, but the CoP deviation in both axes was unaffected. HR and BLa were elevated at 3rd and 7th minutes, and they remained elevated 2-min post-match. However, CoP returned to baseline 2-min post-match. RPE was elevated at 3rd and 7th minutes and the greatest effort was displayed in the Deltoid and Quadriceps. Thus, one simulated judo match stimulates a significant metabolic response and balance is degraded, with the greatest effects on the anterior-posterior axis and it recovers to baseline level after 2 min of passive rest. The physiological load cannot be regarded as a potential predictor variable of CoP. Overall, a judo match predominantly affects the upper body than the other body parts.		[Santos, Luis; Fernandez-Rio, Javier; Gutierrez, Carlos] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Leon, Spain; [Santos, Luis; Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo; Dopico-Calvo, Xurxo; Carballeira-Fernandez, Eduardo] Univ A Coruna, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Performance & Hlth Grp, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, La Coruna, Spain; [Blanco-Traba, Miguel] Catholic Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Jakobsen, Markus Due] Natl Res Ctr Working Environm, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Jakobsen, Markus Due] Univ Southern Denmark, Inst Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Odense, Denmark; [Gonzalez-Diez, Vicente] Med Serv Community Cabo Penas, Asturias, Spain; [Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Amonette, William] Univ Houston Clear Lake, Human Performance Lab, Houston, TX USA; [Suman, Oscar] Univ Texas Med Branch, Dept Surg, Galveston, TX 77555 USA; [Suman, Oscar] Shriners Hosp Children, Galveston, TX 77550 USA; [Santos, Luis] Univ Leon, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Leon, Spain; [Santos, Luis] Univ A Coruna, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Performance & Hlth Grp, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, La Coruna, Spain								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000527152300001	43	Article; Article		
J	Letafatkar, Amir; Hatefi, Mohamadreza; Babakhani, Farideh; Ghanati, Hadi Abbaszadeh; Wallace, Brian								The influence of hip rotations on muscle activity during unilateral weight-bearing exercises in individuals with and without genu varum: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				224	229		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.03.009			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: Hip rotation can influence gluteus medius (Gmed) muscle activity in individuals with genu varum (GV). This study examined different hip rotation positions on muscle activity during unilateral weight-bearing exercises in individuals with and without GV. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Outpatient physical therapy center. Participants: Forty-six physically active males, divided between control (n = 23) and GV groups (n = 23). Main outcome measures: Surface electromyography measured Gmed and tensor fascia latae (TFL) activity during pelvic drop (PD) and wall press (WP) exercises with different hip rotations. Results: In the control group, WP with external rotation produced greater Gmed/TFL activity compared to other rotation positions. No difference was found for Gmed/TFL with PD in controls. In the GV group, Gmed activity increased with internal rotation in PD and WP; TFL activity increased only with external rotation in WP. Internal hip rotation produced higher Gmed/TFL activity than other positions in the GV group during both exercises. Greater Gmed/TFL activity was observed in the control group than GV during PD with external rotation, and WP with neutral positioning and external rotation. Conclusions: WP with external rotation in controls, and PD and WP with internal hip rotation in subjects with GV, are effective exercises to optimize GMed/TFL activity. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Letafatkar, Amir; Hatefi, Mohamadreza; Ghanati, Hadi Abbaszadeh] Kharazmi Univ, Dept Biomech & Sport Injuries, Tehran, Iran; [Babakhani, Farideh] Allamah Tabatabai Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Tehran, Iran; [Wallace, Brian] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Kinesiol, Oshkosh, WI 54901 USA; [Wallace, Brian] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Kinesiol, Oshkosh, WI 54901 USA								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200030	28	Article; Article		
J	Sur, Pramod Kumar; Sasaki, Masaru								Measuring Customer Discrimination: Evidence From the Professional Cricket League in India								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	4			420	448		10.1177/1527002520913104			MAY 2020	2020	This article examines customer discrimination considering a unique data set from the most popular sports industry in India, that is, cricket. Relying on Playing XI vote in the Indian Premier League, we analyze whether supporters have different personal preferences toward players based on their location of origin and religion. In contrast to the often-heated rhetoric surrounding discrimination and previous literature, we overall do not find any discrimination in voting. We instead find a positive preference for popular foreign players. Our results further suggest that if we examine discrimination by controlling for proxy productivity characteristics, it may produce bias results.		[Sur, Pramod Kumar] Asian Growth Res Inst, 11-4 Ohtemachi, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, Japan; [Sasaki, Masaru] Osaka Univ, Grad Sch Econ, Suita, Osaka, Japan; [Sur, Pramod Kumar] Asian Growth Res Inst, 11-4 Ohtemachi, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, Japan								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000523729600005	25	Article; Article		
J	Giakoumis, Michael; Pollock, Noel; Mias, Eduard; McAleer, Stephen; Kelly, Shane; Brown, Freddie; Wootten, Moses; Macdonald, Ben								Eccentric hamstring strength in elite track and field athletes on the British Athletics world class performance program								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				217	223		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.03.008			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: This novel study aims to provide unique data on eccentric hamstring strength in elite track and field athletes. Design: Clinical measurement, cross-sectional study. Setting: Across two British Athletics performance centres. Participants: 44 elite British track and field athletes. Main outcome measures: Eccentric hamstring force and torque were evaluated using the Nordbord device. Injury history and demographic data was collected to assess whether differences between gender, event group, limb symmetry and previous injury history were present. Results: Average peak force for males and females was 418.38N and 318.54N. Relative to body weight there were no gender differences (Male 5.21N.kg(-1), Female 4.99N.kg(-1)) (p = 0.62). The right limb was significantly stronger in long sprint (400m athletes) (p = 0.00018) (d = 0.56). No differences in relative force or torque were observed between previously injured and non-injured limbs. Conclusions: This study provides unique data in elite track and field athletes. Relative force per kilogram should be used when comparing male and female athletes. Unlike other studies, we found no difference in eccentric strength between previously injured and non-injured limbs. The novel finding of increased eccentric strength demonstrated in the right limb in 400m sprinters may be due to the asymmetric demands of bend running and may be considered normal. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Giakoumis, Michael; Pollock, Noel] British Athlet, Lee Valley Athlet Ctr, London, England; [Pollock, Noel] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, 170 Tottenham Court Rd, London, England; [Mias, Eduard] Tottenham Hotspur Football Club, London, England; [McAleer, Stephen] Irish Rugby Football Union, Dublin, Ireland; [Kelly, Shane] Loughborough Univ, British Athlet, Natl Performance Inst, Athlet Ctr HiPAC, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Macdonald, Ben] British Cycling, Stuart St, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Brown, Freddie; Wootten, Moses] UK Sport, 21 Bloomsbury St, London, England; [Giakoumis, Michael] British Athlet, Lee Valley Athlet Ctr, London, England								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200029	38	Article; Article		
J	Reyes, Jonathan; Willmott, Catherine; McIntosh, Andrew; Howard, Teresa S.; Clifton, Patrick; Makdissi, Michael; Harcourt, Peter; Cameron, Peter; Rosenfeld, Jeffrey, V; Nguyen, Jack V. K.; Mitra, Biswadev								The potential of head acceleration measurement to augment current best practice in concussion screening in professional Australian football players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				210	216		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.03.007			MAY 2020	2020	Objective: To explore the potential utility of head acceleration event (HAE) measurements to augment identification of players for further concussion screening in non-helmeted contact sport. Design: Prospective observational pilot study. Participants: 210 (118 female) professional Australian football players in 2017 season. Methods: Players wore the X-Patch (R) accelerometer for one match each with data collected across 14 matches. Players with HAEs above thresholds associated with concussion, 95 g (males) or 85.5 g (females), were compared to players identified to have suspected concussion by club personnel during the inspected matches. Video review of matches was undertaken by a physician blinded to HAEs to identify players with concussive signs. Results: Among 26 players (50% female) with HAEs above threshold, two players were screened for concussion. Of the remaining 24 players, nine were not visible on video at the HAE time, six sustained verifiable head impacts, and nine sustained verifiable body impacts with no head impacts. Among 184 players with HAEs below threshold, five players were screened. Conclusion: Players were identified to have head impacts and suspected concussion in the absence of HAEs above threshold. Use of X-Patch (R) was not sufficiently reliable for identifying players for further concussion screening in professional Australian football. Video review of head impacts remains essential in concussion screening. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Reyes, Jonathan; Willmott, Catherine; Nguyen, Jack V. K.] Monash Univ, Sch Psychol Sci, Turner Inst Brain & Mental Hlth, Clayton Campus, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Willmott, Catherine] Epworth Med Fdn, Monash Epworth Rehabil Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [McIntosh, Andrew] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Engn, Joondalup, Australia; [McIntosh, Andrew] Edith Cowan Univ, Australian Collaborat Res Injury Sport & Its Prev, Joondalup, Australia; [McIntosh, Andrew] Monash Univ, Accid Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Howard, Teresa S.; Cameron, Peter; Mitra, Biswadev] Alfred Hosp, Natl Trauma Res Inst, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Howard, Teresa S.; Rosenfeld, Jeffrey, V] Monash Univ, Dept Surg, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Clifton, Patrick; Harcourt, Peter] Australian Football League, Clayton, Vic, Australia; [Makdissi, Michael] Melbourne Brain Ctr, Florey Inst Neurosci & Mental Hlth, Austin Campus, Heidelberg, Vic, Australia; [Makdissi, Michael] Olymp Pk Sports Med Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Cameron, Peter; Mitra, Biswadev] Alfred Hosp, Emergency & Trauma Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Cameron, Peter; Mitra, Biswadev] Monash Univ, Dept Epidemiol & Prevent Med, Clayton, Vic, Australia; [Rosenfeld, Jeffrey, V] Alfred Hosp, Dept Neurosurg, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Rosenfeld, Jeffrey, V] Uniformed Serv Univ Hlth Sci, F Edward Hebert Sch Med, Dept Surg, Bethesda, MD 20814 USA; [Willmott, Catherine] Monash Psychol Ctr, Ground Floor,Bldg 1,270 Ferntree Gully Rd, Notting Hill, Vic 3168, Australia								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200028	42	Article; Article		
J	Oliveras, Ruben; Bizzini, Mario; Brunner, Romana; Maffiuletti, Nicola A.								Field-based evaluation of hip adductor and abductor strength in professional male ice hockey players: Reference values and influencing factors								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				204	209		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.03.006			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To provide reference values and examine the influence of hip/groin pain on hip adductor and abductor strength in professional male ice hockey players, by using a straightforward 5-min procedure. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: On-field assessment of hip/groin muscle strength with dynamometry, together with the concomitant level of hip/groin pain with a visual analogue scale. Participants: Professional male ice hockey players competing in the Swiss National League (n = 187). Main outcome measures: Hip abductor strength, hip adductor strength and hip adductor:abductor ratio. Results: Reference values by playing position (goalkeepers, defenders and forwards) are provided for asymptomatic athletes. Players with hip/groin pain during adduction displayed lower hip adductor strength (p = 0.001) and hip adductor:abductor ratio (p = 0.012) than their symptom-free peers. Conclusions: The presence of hip/groin pain during adductor testing may contribute to selective hip adductor weakness, whose cause-effect relation with possible groin problems remains to be demonstrated. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Oliveras, Ruben; Bizzini, Mario; Brunner, Romana; Maffiuletti, Nicola A.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland; [Oliveras, Ruben] ETH, Zurich, Switzerland; [Maffiuletti, Nicola A.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200027	28	Article; Article		
J	Crow, Justin; Semciw, Adam; Couch, Jamon; Pizzari, Tania								Does a recent hamstring muscle injury affect the timing of muscle activation during high speed overground running in professional Australian Football players?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				188	194		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.03.005			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate if the temporal characteristics of hamstring and gluteal muscle activation are altered during high speed overground running in professional Australian Football players following hamstring muscle injury. Design: Cohort study. Setting: Field-based testing. Participants: Elite professional Australian Football players who had sustained a hamstring muscle injury in the six months prior to testing (n = 7) and a group of players from the same club who had no history of hamstring muscle injury (n = 8). Main outcome measures: Muscle onset timing, muscle offset timing and muscle onset duration of the medial hamstrings, biceps femoris and gluteus maximus muscles during high-speed running using electromyographic data. Results: No significant differences in any of the temporal aspects of muscle activation were found between groups for any of the muscles tested (p > 0.05). Conclusions: Persistent alterations to the timing of muscle activation following hamstring muscle injury that have been reported in recreational athletes were not observed during high speed running in professional athletes who have completed comprehensive rehabilitation programs. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Crow, Justin; Semciw, Adam; Pizzari, Tania] La Trobe Univ, Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Crow, Justin] Paralymp Australia, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Couch, Jamon; Pizzari, Tania] Mill Pk Physiotherapy Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Crow, Justin] Paralymp Australia, 275 Melrose Dr, Melbourne Airport, Vic 3045, Australia								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200025	43	Article; Article		
J	de-la-Cruz-Torres, Blanca; Barrera-Garcia-Martin, Irene; de la Cueva-Reguera, Monica; Bravo-Aguilar, Maria; Abuin-Porras, Vanesa; Romero-Morales, Carlos								Ultrasound imaging features of the Achilles tendon in dancers. Is there a correlation between the imaging and clinical findings? A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				181	187		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.03.004			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To analyze the prevalence of tendon pathology and performance associated in preprofessional classic dancers with no history of Achilles tendon (AT) pain. Design: A cross-sectional study was conducted. Participants: Twenty-nine classic ballet dancers without AT pain (58 tendons) were recruited. The tendons were classified (normal, abnormal) using ultrasound imaging (USI). Cross-sectional area (CSA) and thickness of flexor hallucis longus (FHL) muscle were measured using USI. Range of movement (ROM) of the first metatarsophalangeal join, balance test, endurance test and vertical jump were measured (bilaterally) as performance variables. Results: More than a half (62%) of the participants had at least one abnormal tendon, with 45% of the dancers in the abnormal group having bilateral abnormalities. Dancers with AT pathology had significantly more years of dancing and number of weekly pointe hours than those with no pathology on US imaging. No significant differences between the groups were identified for the rest of the variables. Dancing years were moderately correlated with AT thickness. Conclusions: Asymptomatic classic dancers had a high incidence of tendon pathology. Increased dancing years was associated with pathology in the AT. Nevertheless, these abnormalities may not affect dance performance. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[de-la-Cruz-Torres, Blanca; Barrera-Garcia-Martin, Irene] Univ Seville, Dept Physiotherapy, Avicena St, Seville 41009, Spain; [de la Cueva-Reguera, Monica; Bravo-Aguilar, Maria; Abuin-Porras, Vanesa; Romero-Morales, Carlos] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, C Tajo S-N, Madrid 28670, Spain; [Abuin-Porras, Vanesa] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Physiotherapy Dept, C Tajo S-N, Madrid 28670, Spain								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200024	64	Article; Article		
J	Sheerin, Kelly R.; Reid, Duncan; Taylor, Denise; Besier, Thor F.								The effectiveness of real-time haptic feedback gait retraining for reducing resultant tibial acceleration with runners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				173	180		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.03.001			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To examine the effectiveness of real-time haptic feedback gait retraining for reducing resultant tibial acceleration (TA-R) with runners, the retention of changes over four weeks, and the transfer of learning to overground running. Design: Case control. Setting: Biomechanical laboratory treadmill, and track-based overground, running. Participants: 18 experienced uninjured high tibial acceleration runners. Main outcome measures: TA-R measured while treadmill and overground running assessed at pre-, post- and 4-weeks post-intervention. Results: Across the group, a 50% reduction in TA-R was measured post-intervention (ES: 0.9, z = -18.2, p < .001), and 41% reduction at 4-weeks (ES: 0.8, z = -12.9, p < .001) with treadmill running. A 28% reduction (ES: 0.7, z = -13.2, p < .001), and a 17% reduction in TA-R were measured at these same time points when runners ran overground (ES: 0.7, z = -11.2, p < .001). All but two runners responded positively to the intervention at the post-intervention assessment. Eleven runners were categorised as positive responders to the intervention at the 4-week post-intervention. Conclusions: Haptic feedback based on TA-R appears to be as effective, but less invasive and expensive, compared to other more established modalities, such as visual feedback. This new approach to movement retraining has the potential to revolutionise the way runners engage in gait retraining. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sheerin, Kelly R.; Reid, Duncan; Besier, Thor F.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sch Sport & Recreat, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Taylor, Denise] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Hlth & Rehabil Res Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Besier, Thor F.] Univ Auckland, Auckland Bioengn Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Besier, Thor F.] Univ Auckland, Dept Engn Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Sheerin, Kelly R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Auckland Mail Ctr, Private Bag 92001, Auckland, New Zealand								33							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200023	48	Article; Article		
J	Johnston, Therese E.; Close, Jeremy; Jamora, Phil; Wainwright, Susan F.								Perceptions of risk for stress fractures: A qualitative study of female runners with and without stress fracture histories								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				143	150		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.018			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To gain insight into perceived factors related to bone health and stress fracture (SF) prevention for female runners and to understand their experiences within the medical community. Design: Cohort qualitative study. Setting: University health system. Participants: Forty female runners, 20 who had SF histories and 20 age-and-running-distance matched women without SF. Main outcome measures: Women participated in audiotaped qualitative semi-structured interviews. For women with a SF history, questions sought their perspectives on factors that they felt contributed to SF, experiences with the medical community, and changes made post SF. For women without a SF history, questions sought perspectives on factors felt important to perceived running-related bone health. Results: Six themes emerged; 1) Previous/Recurrent Musculoskeletal Injuries, 2) Activity Patterns and Training Regimens, 3) Nutrition, 4) Prevention and Intervention, 5) Pain, and 6) Mindset. Within these themes, between group differences are characterized by differences in knowledge and/or application of knowledge for health and wellness. Compared to women without SF, women with SF histories increased training load more quickly, had poorer nutrition, performed less cross-training, and kept running despite pain. Conclusions: More education is needed for female runners to decrease risks for SF. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Johnston, Therese E.; Jamora, Phil; Wainwright, Susan F.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Jefferson Coll Rehabil Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 901 Walnut St,Room 515, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Close, Jeremy] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Sidney Kimmel Med Coll, Dept Family & Community Med, 833 Chestnut St, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Johnston, Therese E.] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Jefferson Coll Rehabil Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 901 Walnut St,Room 515, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200019	39	Article; Article		
J	Moore, Damien; Semciw, Adam, I; Wisbey-Roth, Trish; Pizzari, Tania								Adding hip rotation to therapeutic exercises can enhance gluteus medius and gluteus minimus segmental activity levels - An electromyography study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				157	165		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.017			MAY 2020	2020			[Moore, Damien; Semciw, Adam, I; Pizzari, Tania] La Trobe Univ, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic 3086, Australia; [Wisbey-Roth, Trish] Take Control Act Rehab, 4-91 Mulga Rd, Oatley 2223, Australia; [Moore, Damien] La Trobe Univ, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic 3086, Australia								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200021	46	Article; Article		
J	Leahy, Therese M.; Kenny, Ian C.; Campbell, Mark J.; Warrington, Giles D.; Cahalan, Roisin; Harrison, Andrew J.; Lyons, Mark; Glynn, Liam G.; Purtill, Helen; Comyns, Thomas M.								Injury surveillance and prevention practices across Rugby schools in Ireland								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				134	142		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.006			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To ascertain the extent of injury surveillance and prevention practices currently in operation and the availability of qualified personnel across Rugby playing schools in the Republic of Ireland. Design: Cross-sectional survey design. Setting: Rugby playing schools across Ireland. Participants: The Rugby games master, head Rugby coach or teacher/coach with knowledge of all Rugby activities in the school. Results: Ninety-three Rugby playing schools responded and reported 356 (97% male, 3% female) school Rugby teams. Rugby injuries were formally monitored in 86% of schools. Injury recorders were primarily coaches (61%). Physiotherapy provision was available in 28% of schools, 14% of schools provided access to a medical doctor and 44% of schools provided access to an S&C coach. Structured warm-ups were undertaken in 66% of schools, weekly gym sessions in 49% of schools and 31% of schools did not implement any formal injury prevention measures. Conclusions: Injury monitoring practices, medical personnel accessibility and the frequency of injury prevention practices varies considerably across Rugby playing schools in Ireland. Future injury surveillance and prevention systems should be suitable for use by non-medical personnel and reflect the structural organisation of the school Rugby game so that data are not solely representative of the elite, well-resourced schools. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Leahy, Therese M.; Kenny, Ian C.; Campbell, Mark J.; Warrington, Giles D.; Harrison, Andrew J.; Lyons, Mark; Comyns, Thomas M.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Kenny, Ian C.; Warrington, Giles D.; Cahalan, Roisin; Comyns, Thomas M.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Campbell, Mark J.] Univ Limerick, Irish Software Res Ctr, Lero, Limerick, Ireland; [Cahalan, Roisin] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Glynn, Liam G.] Univ Limerick, Grad Entry Med Sch, Limerick, Ireland; [Purtill, Helen] Univ Limerick, Dept Math & Stat, Limerick, Ireland; [Leahy, Therese M.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200018	44	Article; Article		
J	Kosik, Kyle B.; Johnson, Nathan F.; Terada, Masafumi; Thomas, Abbey C.; Mattacola, Carl G.; Gribble, Phillip A.								Decreased ankle and hip isometric peak torque in young and middle-aged adults with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				127	133		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.014			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To compare ankle, knee and hip isometric peak torque between young and middle-aged adults with CAI, copers and un-injured controls. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Research Laboratory. Participants: One hundred fifty-six young and middle-aged adults with or without CAI volunteered. Main outcome measures: A handheld dynamometer measured isometric dorsiflexion, plantarflexion, knee extension, hip extension and hip abduction peak force during a 5 s trial. Average peak torque was calculated and normalized to body mass. Results: A significant Age by Injury interaction for dorsiflexion suggest middle-aged un-injured controls (p < 0.001) and copers (p < 0.001) had lower isometric peak torque compared to their young adult counterparts, but there were no differences between young and middle-aged adults with CAI (p > 0.05). Significant Injury main effects suggest the CAI group had decreased plantarflexion (p = 0.004) and hip extension (p = 0.010) strength compared to un-injured controls, but not copers (p> 0.05). Significant Age main effects for all primary outcome measures were observed, indicating peak torque decreased with age (p < 0.05). Conclusions: Regardless of age, isometric ankle and hip peak torque was lower in participants with CAI compared to un-injured controls, but not copers. These findings provide further evidence towards the impact of CAI in both young and middle-aged adults. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kosik, Kyle B.; Gribble, Phillip A.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Athlet Training & Clin Nutr, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Johnson, Nathan F.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Phys Therapy, Lexington, KY 40536 USA; [Terada, Masafumi] Ritsumeikan Univ, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Thomas, Abbey C.] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Dept Kinesiol, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA; [Mattacola, Carl G.] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Greensboro, NC 27402 USA; [Kosik, Kyle B.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Rehabil Sci, Div Athlet Training, Coll Hlth Sci, Lexington, KY 40536 USA								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200017	55	Article; Article		
J	Letafatkar, Amir; Rabiei, Pouya; Afshari, Mina								Effect of neuromuscular training augmented with knee valgus control instructions on lower limb biomechanics of male runners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				89	99		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.009			MAY 2020	2020	Objective: To examine if combining neuromuscular training (NMT) with knee valgus control instructions (VCIs) can affect lower limb biomechanics and injury incidence in male novice runners and assess over 1-year follow-up. Design: Controlled laboratory Study. Setting: University research laboratory. Participants: 60 male novice runners randomly assigned into NMT (n = 20), NMT plus VCIs (n = 20), and sham (n = 20). Main outcome measures: Kinematic and kinetic were measured at pre- and post-test and 1-year follow-up. Injury incidence assessed at pre-test and 1-year follow up. Results: There were significant between-group differences in kinetics after 6 weeks in NMT plus VCIs group. No significant differences were observed between NMT and NMT plus VCIs in kinematic variables. No significant change was seen in the sham in all variables. At 1-year follow-up, the minimal changes were seen in kinetic variables. Reduction reported running-related injuries were 31.58% in the NMT alone group, 65.52% in NMT plus VCIs group. In sham, it increased to 13.46%. Conclusions: NMT plus VCIs was effective to reduce kinetics and improve kinematics in novice runners. Also, it could reduce injury incidence. This protocol may be an option for both athletic trainers and coaches for preventing of lower limbs' injury in male runners. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Letafatkar, Amir; Afshari, Mina] Kharazmi Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Tehran, Iran; [Rabiei, Pouya] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Physiotherapy Human Physiol & Anat, Pain Mot Res Grp, Brussels, Belgium; [Rabiei, Pouya] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Physiotherapy Human Physiol & Anat, Pain Mot Res Grp, Brussels, Belgium								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200013	44	Article; Article		
J	Hodges-Long, Laura; Cross, Kevin; Magrum, Eric; Feger, Mark; Hertel, Jay								The effect of body weight reduction using a lower body positive pressure treadmill on plantar pressure measures while running								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				100	107		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.011			MAY 2020	2020	Objective: To evaluate the effects of body weight reduction at 10% intervals on pressure distribution variables across regions of the foot while running. Study design: Crossover Study Design. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 12 recreational runners. Main outcome measures: Pressure-time integral, peak pressure, instance of peak pressure, contact area, contact time and center of pressure (COP) location at initial contact across four foot regions were measured while participants ran at self-selected speed on the Lower Body Positive Pressure Treadmill (LBPPT) at 100%, 90%, 80%, 70% and 60% of their body weight (%BW). Results: As the %BW decreased, there were corresponding significant decreases in the pressure-time integral and peak pressures in all four regions of the foot. Significant differences within foot region and %BW for the other variables were infrequent. There was a significant anterior shift of the COP location at initial contact as the %BW decreased. Conclusion: LBPPT is useful for reducing the pressure across the entire foot. Additionally, the anterior translation of the COP location at initial contact with reduced %BW may provide an additional gait retraining tool for prevention and treatment of running injuries as reducing %BW moves the runner away from a rearfoot strike pattern. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hodges-Long, Laura; Cross, Kevin; Magrum, Eric] UVA Outpatient Therapy Fontaine, 545 Ray C Hunt Dr,Suite 2100,POB 801055, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Feger, Mark; Hertel, Jay] Univ Virginia, Curry Sch Educ, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Cross, Kevin] UVA Outpatient Therapy Fontaine, 545 Ray C Hunt Dr,Suite 2100,POB 801055, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200014	20	Article; Article		
J	Hannington, Madeline; Docking, Sean; Cook, Jill; Edwards, Suzi; Rio, Ebonie								Self-reported jumpers' knee is common in elite basketball athletes - But is it all patellar tendinopathy?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				58	64		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.012			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To describe the prevalence and pain location of self-reported patellar tendinopathy and patellar tendon abnormality in a male elite basketball population. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Pre-season tournament. Participants: Sixty male athletes from the Australian National Basketball League. Main outcome measures: Self-reported patellar tendinopathy (PT) using the Oslo Sports Trauma Research Centre Overuse Questionnaire (OSTRC). Pain location using pain mapping (dichotomised: focal/diffuse) and severity during the single leg decline squat. Ultrasound tissue characterisation scans of both patellar tendons. Results: Thirteen participants (22.7%) self-reported PT. Only 3 who reported PT had localised inferior pole pain. Thirty athletes reported pain during the decline squat, 15 described focal pain; 10 diffuse pain (5 missing data). Those with diffuse pain had greater years played [Md = 21 (13-24), n = 10 than focal pain (Md = 12 (7-26), n = 15), p = 0.042, r = 0.3]. Bilateral tendon abnormality was found in 45% of athletes and 15% had unilateral tendon abnormality. Conclusion: Elite male basketball athletes self-reporting PT had heterogeneity in pain location. When focal pain with loading was used as a primary definition of PT, 'jumpers' knee' was not common in this cohort. This study found that abnormality of the patellar tendon was common and did not correlate with symptoms. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hannington, Madeline; Docking, Sean; Cook, Jill; Rio, Ebonie] La Trobe Univ, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Edwards, Suzi] Univ Newcastle, Sch Environm & Life Sci, Newcastle, NSW, Australia; [Edwards, Suzi] Univ Newcastle, Prior Res Ctr Phys Act & Nutr, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Hannington, Madeline] La Trobe Univ, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200008	30	Article; Article		
J	Karabay, Damla; Yesilyaprak, Sevgi Sevi; Picak, Gonca Sahiner								Reliability and validity of eccentric strength measurement of the shoulder abductor muscles using a hand-held dynamometer								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				52	57		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.002			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate the validity and intrarater and interrater reliability of eccentric strength testing of the shoulder abductors using a hand-held dynamometer (HHD) versus an isokinetic dynamometer. Design: Methodological. Setting: Research laboratory and athletic training room. Participants: Forty-seven asymptomatic shoulders of 25 participants were tested in 2 sessions by 2 physiotherapists. Main outcome measures: Eccentric strength of the shoulder abductors was measured from 120 degrees to 30 degrees scapular plane abduction using the HHD and isokinetic dynamometer. A gyroscope was used to validate the velocity. Spearman's rank correlation coefficients, intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC), standard error of measurement (SEM), and minimal detectable change (MDC) were calculated. Results: The measurement protocol showed excellent intrarater (ICC[3,3] = 0.987, SEM = 2.59 Nm and MDC = 7.18 Nm) and interrater (ICC[3,3] = 0.990, SEM = 2.28 Nm and MDC = 6.32 Nm) reliability. HHD and isokinetic dynamometer measurements were strongly correlated (rho = 0.760, p < .001). Velocities during HDD testing were similar to those of the isokinetic dynamometer (30 degrees/s) (p > .050). Conclusions: Eccentric strength testing of the shoulder abductors using an HHD is a valid and reliable method that can be used for research and clinical purposes when an isokinetic dynamometer cannot be used. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Karabay, Damla] Izmir Katip Celebi Univ, Hlth Sci Fac, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, 33-2 Balatcik, Izmir, Turkey; [Karabay, Damla; Picak, Gonca Sahiner] Dokuz Eylul Univ, Inst Hlth Sci, Mithatpasa St 1606,Inciralti Hlth Campus, Izmir, Turkey; [Yesilyaprak, Sevgi Sevi] Dokuz Eylul Univ, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil, Mithatpasa St 56-15,Inciralti Hlth Campus, Izmir, Turkey; [Picak, Gonca Sahiner] Izmir Univ Econ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sakarya St 156, Izmir, Turkey; [Karabay, Damla] Izmir Katip Celebi Univ, Hlth Sci Fac, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, 33-2 Balatcik, Izmir, Turkey								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200007	33	Article; Article		
J	Neal, Bradley S.; Lack, Simon D.; Barton, Christian J.; Birn-Jeffery, Aleksandra; Miller, Stuart; Morrissey, Dylan								Is markerless, smart phone recorded two-dimensional video a clinically useful measure of relevant lower limb kinematics in runners with patellofemoral pain? A validity and reliability study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				36	42		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.004			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: Investigate the validity and reliability of markerless, smart phone collected, two-dimensional (2D) video, analysed using the 'Hudl technique' application, compared to three-dimensional (3D) kinematics during running, in participants with patellofemoral pain (PFP). Design: Validity/reliability study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Males/females with PFP (n = 21, 10 males, 11 females, age 32.1 months [+/- 12.91). Main outcome measures: Manually synchronised 2D and 3D measurement of peak hip adduction (HADD) and peak knee flexion (KFLEX) during running. Results: 2D and 3D measures of peak KFLEX (p = 0.02, d = 1.13), but not peak HADD (p = 0.25, d = -0.27), differed significantly. Poor validity was identified for 2D measurement of peak HADD (ICC 0.06, 95% CI -0.35, 0.47) and peak KFLEX ICC 0.42, 95% CI (-0.10, 0.75). Moderate intra-rater reliability was identified for both variables (ICC 0.61-65), alongside moderate inter-rater reliability for peak KFLEX (ICC 0.71) and poor inter-rater reliability for peak HADD (ICC 0.31). Conclusions: Measurement of peak HADD and KFLEX in runners with PFP using markerless, smart phone collected 2D video, analysed using the Hudl technique Application is invalid, with poor to moderate reliability. Investigation of alternate 2D video approaches to increase precision is warranted. At present, 2D video analysis of running using Hudl Technique cannot be advocated. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Neal, Bradley S.; Lack, Simon D.; Barton, Christian J.; Birn-Jeffery, Aleksandra; Miller, Stuart; Morrissey, Dylan] Queen Mary Univ London, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England; [Neal, Bradley S.; Lack, Simon D.] Pure Sports Med, London, England; [Barton, Christian J.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Birn-Jeffery, Aleksandra] Queen Mary Univ London, Sch Engn & Mat Sci, London, England; [Morrissey, Dylan] Barts Hlth NHS Trust, Physiotherapy Dept, London, England; [Neal, Bradley S.] Mile End Hosp, Sports & Exercise Med, Bancroft Rd, London E1 4DG, England								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200005	40	Article; Article		
J	Clark, Nicholas C.; Clacher, Lucy H.								Lower-limb motor-performance asymmetries in English community-level female field hockey players: Implications for knee and ankle injury prevention								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				43	51		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.001			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: Side-to-side asymmetry of lower-limb motor-performance is associated with increased agility-sport noncontact injury-risk. Left leg preferential use (unilaterality) in hockey may influence lower-limb motor-performance asymmetry. Symmetry-analyses have not been reported for female hockey players. This study performed symmetry-analyses using the eyes-closed-balance test (ECB), anterior reach test (ART), triple-hop-for-distance (THD), and six-metre hop-for-time (6MHT). Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Community-level club. Participants: Thirty players (age 25.6 +/- 4.5yr; height 165.6 +/- 5.9 cm; mass 64.8 +/- 5.5 kg). Main outcome measures: Right-left group-level (t-test with Bonferroni adjustment) and individual-level (absolute-asymmetry (%)) comparisons. A limb symmetry index (LSI) was computed for each player and a clinically-significant absolute-asymmetry defined >10% as per previous literature. Clinically-significant absolute-asymmetry prevalence (%) was calculated across tests. For unilaterality, prevalence of superior left-side performance was calculated. Results: There were no right-left significant differences across tests. Findings for ECB, ART, THD, and 6MHT were: absolute-asymmetry, 28.7 +/- 26.9%, 3.5 +/- 2.8%, 3.5 +/- 3.4%, 6.1 +/- 4.7%; prevalence of clinically-significant absolute-asymmetries, 70.0%, 3.3%, 6.7%, 26.7%; prevalence of superior left-side performance, 46.7%, 53.0%, 50.0%, 47.0%. Conclusions: Statistical tests fail to expose clinically-significant absolute-asymmetries. Many players demonstrated clinically-significant absolute-asymmetries for ECB and 6MHT tests. Clinical interpretation of LSIs and absolute-asymmetries need not consider unilaterality. Clinically-significant absolute-asymmetries previously linked to injury-risk are common in a community-level, adult female hockey players. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England; [Clacher, Lucy H.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Waldegrave Rd, Twickenham, England; [Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200006	89	Article; Article		
J	Mousavi, Seyed Hamed; Hijmans, Juha M.; Moeini, Forough; Rajabi, Reza; Ferber, Reed; van der Worp, Henk; Zwerver, Johannes								Validity and reliability of a smartphone motion analysis app for lower limb kinematics during treadmill running								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				27	35		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.02.003			MAY 2020	2020	Objective: To investigate the validity and reliability of a smartphone application for selected lower-limb kinematics during treadmill running. Design: Validity and reliability study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Twenty healthy female runners. Main outcome measure(s): Sagittal-plane hip, knee, and ankle angle and rearfoot eversion were assessed using the Coach's Eye Smartphone application and a 3D motion capture system. Paired t-test and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) established criterion validity of Coach's Eye; ICC determined testretest and intrarater/interrater reliability. Standard error of measurement (SEM) and minimal detectable change (MDC) were also reported. Results: Significant differences were found between Coach's Eye and 3D measurements for ankle angle at touchdown and knee angle at toe-off (p < 0.05). ICCs for validity of Coach's Eye were excellent for rearfoot eversion at touchdown (ICC = 0.79) and fair-to-good for the other kinematics (range 0.51-0.74), except for hip at touchdown, which was poor (ICC = 0.36). Test-retest (range 0.80-0.92), intrarater (range 0.95-0.99) and interrater (range 0.87-0.94) ICC results were excellent for all selected kinematics. Conclusion: Coach's Eye can be used as a surrogate for 3D measures of knee and rearfoot in/eversion at touchdown, and hip, ankle, and rearfoot in/eversion at toe-off, but not for hip and ankle at touchdown or knee at toe-off. Reliable running kinematics were obtained using Coach's Eye, making it suitable for repeated measures. (C) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Mousavi, Seyed Hamed; Hijmans, Juha M.] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Rehabil Med, Groningen, Netherlands; [Mousavi, Seyed Hamed; Moeini, Forough; Rajabi, Reza] Univ Tehran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Hlth & Sport Med, Tehran, Iran; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ferber, Reed] Running Injury Clin, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Fac Nursing, Calgary, AB, Canada; [van der Worp, Henk; Zwerver, Johannes] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Zwerver, Johannes] Gelderse Vallei Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Ede, Netherlands; [Mousavi, Seyed Hamed] Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Groningen 9700 RB, Netherlands								39							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200004	43	Article; Article		
J	Hill, Ethan C.								Eccentric, but not concentric blood flow restriction resistance training increases muscle strength in the untrained limb								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.013			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: Little is known regarding the variables or mechanisms mediating cross-education as a result of resistance training. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of low-load eccentric-only blood flow restriction (Ecc-BFR) and low-load concentric-only BFR (Con-BFR) on indices of cross-education. Design: Thirty-six women were randomly assigned to 4-wks of unilateral resistance training with EccBFR (n = 12), Con-BFR (n = 12) or control (no intervention, n = 12) group. Eccentric peak torque, concentric peak torque, maximal voluntary isometric contraction torque, muscle thickness, and muscle activation were assessed from the contralateral, untrained arm. Results: Muscle strength (collapsed across mode) increased from 0-wk to 2-wks (4.9%) and 4-wks (13.0%) for Ecc-BFR only. There were increases in muscle activation (collapsed across mode and group) regardless of training modality, but there were no changes in muscle size for any of the conditions. Conclusions: The findings of the present study indicated that low-load Ecc-BFR increased muscle strength. The increases in muscle strength as a result of Ecc-BFR were not mode-specific. Thus, low-load Ecc-BFR provides a unique alternative to maintain muscle function in an untrained limb that may have application during limb immobilization and rehabilitation practices. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hill, Ethan C.] Univ Cent Florida, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Div Kinesiol, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Hill, Ethan C.] Univ Cent Florida, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Div Kinesiol, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Neamatallah, Ziyad; Herrington, Lee; Jones, Richard								An investigation into the role of gluteal muscle strength and EMG activity in controlling HIP and knee motion during landing tasks								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				43				230	235		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.12.008			MAY 2020	2020	Objectives: To examine the relationship between gluteal muscle activity and strength and knee and hip biomechanics during single leg loading tasks. Design: Correlation study. Setting: University Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: 34 physically active, healthy participants, (17 males and 17 females). Main outcome measures: gluteal muscle EMG activity; hip abduction and extension muscle strength; knee and hip angles and moments. Results: In females knee abduction moments and angles were strongly correlated to hip abduction strength across all tasks, whereas in males the relationships were less clear across tasks with both hip abduction strength and gluteus medius EMG activity showing the strongest relationships in specific tasks. Conclusion: Hip and knee kinetic and kinematic variables related to the development of dynamic knee valgus would appear to be influenced by gluteal muscle strength and EMG activity. The level of influence varies across single leg squatting and landing tasks and varies between genders. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Neamatallah, Ziyad; Herrington, Lee; Jones, Richard] Univ Salford, Ctr Hlth Sci Res, Sch Hlth Sci, Frederick Rd Campus, Salford M6 6PU, Lancs, England; [Herrington, Lee] Univ Salford, Ctr Hlth Sci Res, Sch Hlth Sci, Frederick Rd Campus, Salford M6 6PU, Lancs, England								45							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531082200031	27	Article; Article		
J	Rogers, Ryan								Boys in the Booth: The Impact of Announcer Gender on Audience Demand								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	6			610	627	1527002520921231	10.1177/1527002520921231			AUG 2020	2020	This study provides an experiment to examine whether announcer gender impacts audience demand. With special attention to literature detailing the role of women in sports, sports economics, as well as uses and gratifications theory, this study provides an experiment wherein participants watched a sporting event announced by a man or a woman. Afterward, the participants responded to questions regarding their attitudes toward the sporting event they watched. Overall, the male announcer engendered greater feelings of enjoyment and lower feelings of cognitive load than the female announcer. Feelings of autonomy and hostile sexism also played a significant role in mediating the relationship between independent and dependent variables. This study is diagnostic such that it provides empirical evidence that women will have a more difficult time succeeding in this labor market. Also, this study provides noteworthy areas for content producers to focus on in order to increase demand for a product.		[Rogers, Ryan] Butler Univ, Esports Programs, Indianapolis, IN 46208 USA; [Rogers, Ryan] Butler Univ, 4600 Sunset Ave, Indianapolis, IN 46208 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000532936900001	52	Article; Article		
J	Takeda, Tsuyoshi; Sakai, Shin; Takagi, Hideki								Underwater flutter kicking causes deceleration in start and turn segments of front crawl								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	10			1224	1233		10.1080/14763141.2020.1747528			NOV 26 2022	2022	This study investigated the deceleration effect of flutter kicking after dolphin kicking before commencing the stroke at swimmer's emersion. Eight male competitive swimmers (age 19.6 +/- 1.2 years; Federation Internationale de Natation points 733.6 +/- 57.5) performed 15 m front crawl sprints from wall push-off three times in a row, with two types of underwater kicks [dolphin kick only (dolphin condition) and dolphin kick followed by flutter kick (dolphin-flutter condition)]. Sprint bouts were divided into four phases. Phases 1 and 2 were defined, respectively, as the fourth and fifth dolphin kicks. Phase 3 was defined as the first stroke (dolphin condition) and six beats of the flutter kicking (dolphin-flutter condition). Phase 4 was defined as the second stroke (dolphin condition) and the first stroke (dolphin-flutter condition). Two-way repeated measured analysis of variance on mean swimming velocities demonstrated an interaction of condition and phase (p < 0.001) and a simple main effect (p < 0.001) at Phase 3. These results indicated greater deceleration due to adding the flutter kick after the dolphin kick before commencing the stroke. Swimmers should use only the underwater dolphin kick before commencing the front crawl in start and turn segments.		[Takeda, Tsuyoshi] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Inzai, Japan; [Sakai, Shin; Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Takeda, Tsuyoshi] Juntendo Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Inzai, Japan								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531977200001	17	Article; Article		
J	Harker, Jennifer L.; Jensen, Jonathan A.								Adding insult to rivalry: Exploring the discord communicated between rivals								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	4			633	649		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2019-0141			NOV 2 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this research is to extend current knowledge regarding rivalry communication among sport consumers to better understand how rivals behave with one another when they communicate. Design/methodology/approach This national survey of US sport consumers used a novel approach to explore whether and with whom rivals discuss National Football League (NFL) game outcomes. The survey captured both uniplex and multiplex data by asking respondents to name rival discussants with whom they had recently interacted, and the fan behaviors they exchanged with those named rival discussants. Findings Through use of this novel data collection approach, new findings were uncovered related to blasting, glory out of reflective failure, schadenfreude and the influence of team identification on the exchange of rivalry fan behaviors. The results of the uniplex and multiplex data analyses uniquely showcase the ways in which social identity theory combines with team identification to enact rivalry behavior. Originality/value This research is the first to precisely dichotomize the psychological antecedents from the communicated behavior between rival fans. Results reveal the precise ways in which team identification influences discordant communication between rival fans, which differs from past research in an interesting new way.		[Harker, Jennifer L.] West Virginia Univ, Reed Coll Media, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Jensen, Jonathan A.] Univ N Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Harker, Jennifer L.] West Virginia Univ, Reed Coll Media, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000529827100001	56	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Jacob C.; Sugimoto, Dai; Kobelski, Greggory P.; Rao, Prashant; Miller, Stanton; Koilor, Chris; Corrado, Gianmichel D.; Shipon, David M.								Parameters of cardiac symptoms in young athletes using the Heartbytes database								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			37	44		10.1080/00913847.2020.1755908			JAN 2 2021	2021	Introduction: To determine clinical parameters that are related to abnormal cardiac symptoms in physically active youth. Methods: We used Simon's Heart Heartbytes National Youth Cardiac Registry to collect data from adolescent athletes in southeastern Pennsylvania. We collected age, race/ethnicity, abnormal cardiac symptoms, medical history, medication use, caffeine intake, and family history. We obtained height, weight, blood pressure, cardiac murmur findings, and ECGs. Echocardiogram was obtained if necessary. Binary logistic regression analysis was performed to identify independent associations between abnormal cardiac symptoms and collected variables. The odds ratio (OR), 95% confidence interval (95% CI), and p-values were used as statistical values. Results: Of the 887 athletes (543 males and 344 females, age = 16.9 +/- 2.1 years, height = 166.9 +/- 11.4 cm, weight = 62.0 +/- 16.0 kg), 186 (21%) had abnormal cardiac symptoms including chest pain, passing out, difficulty breathing, extreme fatigue, and heart race. There was an independent association between abnormal symptoms and a past medical history (OR: 4.77, 95%CI: 3.18, 7.17, p = 0.001) and medication use (OR: 1.74, 95%CI: 1.08, 2.79, p = 0.022). In medical history, young athletes with asthma showed a greater propensity of abnormal cardiac symptoms (48.9%) compared to young athletes without (14.0%, p = 0.001). Additionally, young athletes with anxiety or depression demonstrated a higher proportion of abnormal cardiac symptoms (48.9%) than those without (19.5%, p = 0.001). Although the association between the presence of abnormal symptoms and African-American race (OR: 2.04, 95%CI: 0.96, 4.35, p = 0.065) and average daily consumption of at least 2 caffeine drinks (OR: 2.08, 95%CI: 0.86, 5.02, p = 0.103) were not significant, there was a trend to reach the a priori significance level. Conclusions: This study identified several clinical parameters that are associated with symptoms suggestive of abnormal cardiac conditions. Larger studies need to be done to better sort out the clinical history that may contribute to false positives to further reduce false positives at heart screenings.		[Jones, Jacob C.; Sugimoto, Dai; Kobelski, Greggory P.; Corrado, Gianmichel D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Jones, Jacob C.; Sugimoto, Dai; Kobelski, Greggory P.; Corrado, Gianmichel D.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Waltham, MA USA; [Jones, Jacob C.; Sugimoto, Dai; Corrado, Gianmichel D.] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 319 Longwood Ave,6th Floor, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Rao, Prashant; Koilor, Chris; Shipon, David M.] Thomas Jefferson Univ Hosp, Div Cardiovasc Med, Dept Med, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Miller, Stanton] Thomas Jefferson Univ, Sidney Kimmel Med Coll, Dept Surg, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Jones, Jacob C.] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 319 Longwood Ave,6th Floor, Boston, MA 02115 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000531967800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Kyungyeol Anthony; Lee, Senyung; Byon, Kevin K.								How useful is each item in the Sport Spectator Identification Scale?: an item response theory analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	4			651	667		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2020-0001			NOV 2 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this study is to evaluate the psychometric properties of each item in the Sport Spectator Identification Scale (SSIS) (Wann and Branscombe, 1993) using the item response theory (IRT) and to provide evidence for modifications in the scale. Design/methodology/approach A total of 635 spectators of US professional sports responded to the seven-item SSIS on an eight-point semantic differential scale. The general partial credit model was fitted to the data. Findings The results revealed that four items (Items 1, 2, 3 and 5) provide a relatively high amount of information, whereas three items (Items 4, 6 and 7) provide a low amount of information, indicating different levels of measurement precision among the items. Furthermore, the results showed that some low-level response options were rarely selected by participants, indicating that it may not be necessary to include response options as many as eight within each item. Originality/value Unlike previous studies examining the psychometric properties of the SSIS as a whole, the present study provides information about the usefulness of each item of the SSIS in measuring individuals' team identification. Based on the findings, the authors identified some issues with the three problematic items, including the wording of the items and the link between the question and the target construct. The authors make several suggestions for researchers and practitioners in improving individual item quality and in making informed decisions when using the SSIS in the future.		[Kim, Kyungyeol Anthony; Byon, Kevin K.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Lee, Senyung] NE Illinois Univ, TESOL Program, Chicago, IL 60625 USA; [Byon, Kevin K.] Indiana Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000529317100001	56	Article; Article		
J	Ivens, Bjoern; Riedmueller, Florian; van Dyck, Peter								Success factors in managing the sponsor-sponsee relationship-a fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis for state-owned enterprises in Germany								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	4			577	596		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2019-0102			NOV 2 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to provide meaningful information about sponsorship management in state-owned enterprises. Design/methodology/approach Qualitative and quantitative data from Germany are analyzed in a case study approach using fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis (Fs/QCA)-an analytic method relevant for describing configurational patterns of causal factors. Findings The case study of sponsorships from state-owned enterprises in Germany reveals four alternative configurations of top-management support, sponsee prominence, standardized processes, and sponsorship leverage explaining sponsor satisfaction. Originality/value The paper combines two underrepresented but important aspects of sponsorship research, i.e. sponsorship management in state-owned enterprises, in an empirical study. Further, present study adds to sponsorship literature by pointing to fuzzy-set Fs/QCA as a relatively novel method that can capture the phenomenon of complex causality.		[Ivens, Bjoern; van Dyck, Peter] Univ Bamberg, Fac Social Sci, Econ & Business Adm, Sales & Mkt Dept, Bamberg, Germany; [Riedmueller, Florian] Nuremberg Inst Technol, Fac Business Adm, Nurnberg, Germany; [van Dyck, Peter] Univ Bamberg, Fac Social Sci, Econ & Business Adm, Sales & Mkt Dept, Bamberg, Germany								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000529172100001	71	Article; Article		
J	Booth, Mark; Cobley, Stephen; Halaki, Mark; Orr, Rhonda								Is training age predictive of physiological performance changes in developmental rugby league players? A prospective longitudinal study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			306	315	1747954120919909	10.1177/1747954120919909			JUN 2020	2020	To determine if training age - rugby league training age, resistance training age and cardiovascular training age - was predictive of changes in physiological performance in developmental rugby league players. Developmental rugby league players from one elite club (n = 147, mean age = 15.8 +/- 1.1 years) playing at Under 16 and Under 18 representative levels were tracked longitudinally over two consecutive seasons. Estimated aerobic capacity, jump height, upper body strength endurance and change of direction were assessed. Mixed method random effect analysis determined relationships between training age domains and physiological change. Positive relationships were observed between rugby league training age and change in estimated V?O(2)max (beta = 0.13, p = 0.018), and change in strength endurance (beta = 0.51, p = 0.033), and resistance training age and change in jump height (beta = 0.11, p = 0.007). A negative relationship was observed between rugby league training age with change in change of direction time (beta = -0.06, p = 0.026). Moderate pre-season training effect sizes were identified for change of direction (effect size = -0.42, confidence interval (CI) = -0.8 to 0.1) and jump height (effect size = 0.41, CI = 0.1-0.7), while small pre-season training effect size was apparent for strength endurance (effect size = 0.33, CI = 0.0-0.7) and estimated V?O(2)max (effect size = 0.16). Small in-season performance decrements occurred in strength endurance (effect size = -0.23, CI = -0.6 to 0.1) and change of direction (effect size = 0.30, CI = -0.1 to 0.7). Higher pre-study rugby league training age was associated with greater improvements in estimated V?O(2)max, strength endurance and change of direction. Additionally, higher resistance training age was associated with greater improvements in vertical jump. Overall, the magnitude of resistance training age and cardiovascular training age may have been too inadequate to meaningfully impact training adaptations in the population. Decrease in effect size for physiological performance changes during the in-season phase suggests that performance enhancements were not maintained across the competitive season.		[Booth, Mark; Cobley, Stephen; Halaki, Mark; Orr, Rhonda] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, POB 170, Lidcombe, NSW 1825, Australia; [Booth, Mark] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, POB 170, Lidcombe, NSW 1825, Australia								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000527971500001	36	Article; Article		
J	Rogers, Ryan; Farquhar, Lee; Mummert, Jacob								Audience response to endemic and non-endemic sponsors of esports events								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	3			561	576		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2019-0107			AUG 3 2020	2020	Purpose To understand how esports viewers perceive endemic and non-endemic sponsors during an event. Design/methodology/approach The researchers employed a four-condition experiment. Participants were randomly assigned to watch a clip with one of four possible sponsors. After participants watched the stimuli, they responded to a questionnaire assessing their opinions of the sponsor in the clip they watched. Findings Generally, the more endemic a sponsor was, the more positive audience members had. Perceptions of credibility were also important to attitudes toward sponsors. Originality/value Esports is an emergent area where little empirical research has been published. This study is designed to expand upon research on sponsorships such that it explores audience perceptions of endemic versus non-endemic sponsors of esports events.		[Rogers, Ryan; Farquhar, Lee; Mummert, Jacob] Butler Univ, Indianapolis, IN 46208 USA; [Rogers, Ryan] Butler Univ, Indianapolis, IN 46208 USA								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000528871500001	62	Article; Article		
J	Sweeney, Emily A.; Howell, David R.; Potter, Morgan N.; Gagliardi, Alexia G.; Albright, Jay C.; Provance, Aaron J.								Comparison of pediatric sports fracture outcomes based on provider type								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				49	1			31	36		10.1080/00913847.2020.1755612			JAN 2 2021	2021	yyyyy Objective: Pediatric primary care sports medicine physicians and pediatric sports medicine orthopedic surgeons, in conjunction with physician assistants (PAs), often manage patients with fractures. We sought to determine if pediatric patients with fractures seen by primary care sports medicine physicians had similar outcomes and satisfaction as those seen by orthopedic surgeons. Methods: We performed a retrospective chart review of four to 18-year-old patients who were treated by a sports medicine provider (primary care or orthopedic surgeon/PA) for a fracture of the radius, ulna, tibia, or fibula. Patients or their parents completed a patient satisfaction survey (Short Assessment of Patient Satisfaction [SAPS]) and an injury location-specific patient-reported functional outcome tool: the Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM) or the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) Scale. Results: Fifty-seven (70%) of the 82 patients were treated by pediatric primary care sports medicine physicians and 25 (30%) were treated by a pediatric sports medicine orthopedic surgeon or surgical PA. The median time from injury to clinically confirmed healing was similar between the two groups (47 vs 60.5 days; p = 0.54), as was the patient satisfaction (SAPS median score = 26 [range = 19-28] vs 24 [range = 9-28]; p = 0.12). Patient-reported outcomes did not differ significantly between groups for the functional outcome tools. Conclusions: Patients seen by pediatric primary care sports medicine physicians and sports medicine orthopedic surgeons have similar patient-reported fracture outcomes and similar satisfaction with care. Pediatric patients with fractures will likely have favorable outcomes when cared for by either of these subspecialty providers.		[Sweeney, Emily A.; Howell, David R.; Albright, Jay C.; Provance, Aaron J.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, 13123 E 16th Ave,Box 060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Sweeney, Emily A.; Howell, David R.; Gagliardi, Alexia G.; Albright, Jay C.; Provance, Aaron J.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Potter, Morgan N.] Univ Delaware, Dept Phys Therapy, Newark, DE USA; [Sweeney, Emily A.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, 13123 E 16th Ave,Box 060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000556912700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Cho, Heetae; Tan, Hui Yi; Lee, Eunsoon								Importance of perceived teammate support as a predictor of student-athletes' positive emotions and subjective well-being								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			364	374	1747954120919720	10.1177/1747954120919720			JUN 2020	2020	Student-athletes may have high stress, and the level of their subjective well-being could be low due to the dual role of being a student and an athlete. In the field of sport psychology, social support has received focal attention to identifying its impact on individuals' subjective well-being. However, there is a lack of research that focuses on teammate support and subjective well-being. Thus, this study examined how the perception of teammate support influences subjective well-being through positive emotions based on the environmental psychology model and the broaden-and-build theory of positive emotions. This study collected 313 responses from university student-athletes in Singapore and conducted a confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modeling analysis. Results showed that perceived teammate support had a positive influence on subjective well-being through positive emotion. Also, there was a direct effect of perceived teammate support on subjective well-being. The results support the critical role of perceived teammate support in enhancing the student-athletes' subjective well-being. The findings of this study are beneficial for coaches and student-leaders to design strategies to improve the subjective well-being of student-athletes.		[Cho, Heetae] Nanyang Technol Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Tan, Hui Yi] Nanyang Technol Univ, Sport Sci & Management, Singapore, Singapore; [Lee, Eunsoon] Pusan Natl Univ, Dept Media Commun, Pusan Daehak Ro 63rd,2, Pusan, South Korea; [Lee, Eunsoon] Pusan Natl Univ, Dept Media Commun, Pusan Daehak Ro 63rd,2, Pusan, South Korea								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000527891100001	76	Article; Article		
J	Best, Matthew J.; Aziz, Keith T.; Nayar, Suresh K.; Patten, Ian S.; Bansal, Ankit; Huish, Eric; Srikumaran, Uma								Smoking is an independent risk factor for complications following open rotator cuff repair								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	4			469	472		10.1080/00913847.2020.1753482			OCT 1 2020	2020	Objectives: Smoking has been associated with poor cuff healing and worse long-term outcomes in patients undergoing rotator cuff repair. The effects of smoking on short-term complications following open rotator cuff repair are not well defined. The purpose of this study is to analyze the effects of smoking on 30-day outcomes following open rotator cuff repair. Methods: The American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program was used to identify patients who underwent open rotator cuff repair from 2011 to 2016. Patients who were current smokers (within 1 year prior to surgery) were identified and compared with nonsmokers. Demographic data and postoperative complications within 30 days were analyzed. Multivariable logistic regression was used to isolate the effect of smoking on complications after surgery. Results: We identified 5,157 patients who underwent open rotator cuff repair, of which 18% (946 patients) were current smokers (within 1 year of surgery). Smokers were younger (54.4 years versus 61.5 years, P < 0.001) and were more likely to be male (60.8% versus 56.9%, P = 0.03). Compared with nonsmokers, smokers had a similar rate of comorbidities (P = 0.35) and similar preoperative functional status (P = 0.53), but had higher mean American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) class (P < 0.001). Logistic regression revealed that smoking was an independent predictor for any complication (OR 1.9, P = 0.03), any venous thromboembolic event (OR 4.6, P = 0.01), and pulmonary embolism (OR 6.4, P = 0.02). Conclusion: Patients who smoke are at increased risk for short-term complications after open rotator cuff repair. Smoking is independently associated with increased rate of postoperative venous thromboembolic events such as pulmonary embolism. This further highlights the importance of preoperative smoking cessation in patients undergoing open rotator cuff repair.		[Best, Matthew J.; Aziz, Keith T.; Nayar, Suresh K.; Patten, Ian S.; Bansal, Ankit; Huish, Eric; Srikumaran, Uma] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Baltimore, MD USA; [Best, Matthew J.] Johns Hopkins Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 601 N Caroline St, Baltimore, MD 21287 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000560529500001	38	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Sangwoo; Cone, Simon M.; Kim, Sukbum								A biomechanical comparison of self-selected and experimentally controlled speeds and grip widths during the bench press exercise								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	8			953	965		10.1080/14763141.2020.1772357			AUG 3 2023	2023	The purpose of this study was to compare one repetition maximum (1RM), a rating of discomfort, and myoelectric activity between self-selected and experimentally controlled speeds and grip widths during the bench press (BP). Four BP conditions used were self-selected speed and grip (SS), self-selected speed and experimentally controlled grip (SC), experimentally controlled speed and self-selected grip (CS), and experimentally controlled speed and grip (CC). Twenty male individuals completed 1RM measurements with each BP condition and then performed 16 BP trials (four trials per condition) for measuring myoelectric activity. A one-way repeated measures analysis of variance was conducted for 1RM. Frequency analyses were conducted for a rating of discomfort. Two-way repeated measures multivariate analyses of variance were performed for myoelectric activity. SS showed a significantly higher 1RM than SC, CS, and CC. CC was characterised as the most uncomfortable BP condition (80%) followed by CS (15%), SC (5%), and SS (0%). There were no significant main effects and interaction of speed and width on myoelectric activity. A self-selected speed and grip width was recommended because it would allow a more practical and ecologically valid assessment of 1RM and a lower rating of discomfort during the BP.		[Lee, Sangwoo; Cone, Simon M.] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Kim, Sukbum] Konyang Univ, Dept Rehabil Personal Training, Nonsan, South Korea; [Lee, Sangwoo] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000546921600001	23	Article; Article		
J	Jensen, Jonathan A.; Head, David; Mergy, Christopher								Investigating sponsor decision-making: the role of schema theory, agency conflicts, and signaling theory in the persistence of naming rights agreements								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	3			467	486		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2019-0067			AUG 3 2020	2020	Purpose Naming rights sponsorships of sport facilities are among the most highly visible marketing agreements in the world. However, factors that may lead one sponsorship to persist for decades, while others end after just a few years, have yet to be investigated. Thus, this study examines the decision-making of brand marketers by investigating the predictors of a sponsoring brand's decision to either continue or dissolve such agreements. Design/methodology/approach Utilizing a global data set of 219 naming rights agreements, an empirical approach is utilized to isolate whether a variety of factors increase or decrease the probability of sponsorship dissolution. Findings Results indicate that agreements entered into with new, as of yet-unnamed facilities lead to a reduction in the probability of dissolution, with a high level of brand equity also reducing the probability of dissolution. Agency conflicts may also play a role, as the sponsoring firm being headquartered in the same metropolitan area as the facility also contributes to the persistence of such agreements. Originality/value These results are intended to assist both sides of what is ideally a long-term relationship in better understanding the factors that may either contribute to or inhibit longer-term partnerships.		[Jensen, Jonathan A.; Head, David; Mergy, Christopher] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Jensen, Jonathan A.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000526074300001	62	Article; Article		
J	Bini, Rodrigo Rico								Acute effects from changes in saddle height in perceived comfort during cycling								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			390	397	1747954120918965	10.1177/1747954120918965			JUN 2020	2020	Prior research did not provide data on acute adaptations to changes in saddle height as commonly performed in bicycle fitting. This study assessed the acute responses from recreational cyclists to changes in saddle height using dynamic bicycle fitting. Ten recreational cyclists completed five trials using three saddle heights (Preferred, High and Low), one Sham-height trial and a final repeated trial for assessment of intra-session reliability. High and Low saddle heights were determined based on dynamically measured knee flexion angles (+/- 10 degrees from their Preferred height). Trials were performed for 30-s at 90 +/- 2 rpm and 2.5 W/kg (181 +/- 32 W). Perceived comfort and discomfort and rating of perceived exertion were assessed at the end of each trial. Significant differences were determined when p < 0.05. Increased comfort was observed at the preferred saddle height compared to a lower saddle height (p = 0.03) but no differences were observed between Preferred and High (p = 0.69) or High vs. Low (p = 0.06). The Sham height was also not different from its equivalent saddle height (p = 0.77) and rating of perceived exertion did not differ between saddle heights (p = 0.33). Recreational cyclists were generally sensitive to changes in saddle height given they reported different levels of comfort between their preferred and a lower saddle height. Similar levels of comfort were observed when a Sham height was introduced, showing that recreational cyclists identified that no change in saddle height was conducted. However, these cyclists could not report differences in comfort when cycling at a High compared to a Low saddle height.		[Bini, Rodrigo Rico] La Trobe Univ, Rural Hlth Sch, Flora Hill Campus, Bendigo, Vic 3550, Australia; [Bini, Rodrigo Rico] La Trobe Univ, Rural Hlth Sch, Flora Hill Campus, Bendigo, Vic 3550, Australia								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000527680300001	24	Article; Article		
J	Popp, Nels; Jensen, Jonathan A.; McEvoy, Chad D.; Weiner, James F.								An examination of the effects of outsourcing ticket sales force management								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	2			205	223		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2019-0046			MAY 4 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of the study is to ascertain whether sport organizations which outsource ticket sales force management outperform sports organizations which manage their ticket sales force internally, relative to ticket revenue and attendance. Design/methodology/approach Thirteen years of ticket revenue and football attendance data were collected for National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Football bowl subdivision (FBS) Division I Athletics Departments (n = 126), as well as data on whether the organization employed an external (outsourced), internal or no ticket sales force. The number of salespeople employed was also captured. Within-subjects, fixed effects regression models, which included several control variables such as number of home contests, prior season attendance, team success and population, were run to assess the relationship between sales force type and both ticket revenue and attendance, for one year, two years and three years after sales force establishment. Findings All models were significant. While both internally managed ticket sales forces and those managed by outsourced firms saw significant increases in ticket revenue (compared to not employing a sales force), internally managed departments outperformed third parties. In addition, departments utilizing outsourcing companies reported lower attendance for the first two years after outsourcing, but attendance differences were negligible by the third year of outsourcing. Practical implications - The results of the study provide data to help sport managers determine whether outsourcing sales functions within an organization will lead to greater ticket revenue and/or attendance. Originality/value While several sport management studies have examined the decision-making process of outsourcing organizational functions, no prior studies have examined the financial implications of doing so.		[Popp, Nels; Jensen, Jonathan A.] Univ N Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [McEvoy, Chad D.] Northern Illinois Univ, De Kalb, IL USA; [Weiner, James F.] Univ Tampa, Tampa, FL 33606 USA; [Popp, Nels] Univ N Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000525572600001	86	Article; Article		
J	Hwang, Geumchan; Kihl, Lisa A.; Inoue, Yuhei								Corporate social responsibility and college sports fans' online donations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	4			597	616		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2019-0079			NOV 2 2020	2020	Purpose This study examined how a US college athletic department's corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives influenced fans' online donation intentions. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected from 490 fans of a Division I intercollegiate athletic program and analyzed using structural equation modeling. Findings Results indicated that the quality of CSR information positively affected e-satisfaction with CSR initiatives, which, in turn, predicted fans' online donation intentions, university attachment, and fan-athletic department identification. Moreover, the relationship between e-satisfaction with CSR initiatives and online donation intentions was mediated by fan-athletic department identification. Originality/value It is important to understand the impact of CSR activities on online donor intentions because marketing these activities could serve as an effective fundraising tool for athletic departments. The findings from this study inform athletic administrators of factors they might consider when promoting CSR initiatives through online media to encourage fans' donations.		[Hwang, Geumchan] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Kihl, Lisa A.] Univ Minnesota Twin Cities, Sch Kinesiol, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Inoue, Yuhei] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Econ Policy & Int Business, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Hwang, Geumchan] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000527358600001	61	Article; Article		
J	Graham-Smith, Philip; Colyer, Steffi L.; Salo, Aki I. T.								Differences in ground reaction waveforms between elite senior and junior academy sprinters during the block phase and first two steps								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			418	427	1747954120917537	10.1177/1747954120917537			JUN 2020	2020	The block start and initial steps following block exit are fundamental aspects of sprinting and their development is key to junior athletes' progression. This study assessed the difference in force production between elite senior (including two sub-10 s 100-m sprinters) and junior academy sprinters during the block phase and the first two steps of a sprint. Thirty-seven male sprinters (17 senior, 20 junior) performed a series of maximal effort 20-40 m acceleration from blocks on an indoor track, with the ground reaction forces produced during the block phase and first two steps measured using force platforms. Senior athletes produced better block-phase performances (average horizontal external power; 15.52 +/- 1.48 W/kg, M +/- SD) compared with the juniors (12.37 +/- 2.21 W/kg; effect size +/- 90% confidence interval = 1.28 +/- 0.38). However, force production during the initial two steps was comparable across groups. Specifically, senior athletes exhibited higher relative force production and ratio of forces during the early (similar to 15-35%) block phase and higher anteroposterior forces during the transition from bilateral to unilateral pushing (58-62% of the block phase). Front foot force production was also found to differentiate senior and junior groups at rear block exit (similar to 55% of the block phase). This may be a required response to the greater centre of mass displacement in order to prevent over-rotation in the senior athletes during the front block pushing phase. Collectively, these results indicate that the progression of junior athletes is non-uniform across the block phase and subsequent two contacts, which should be considered when attempting to progress junior athletes towards senior ranks.		[Graham-Smith, Philip] Aspire Acad, Doha, Qatar; [Colyer, Steffi L.; Salo, Aki I. T.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England; [Colyer, Steffi L.; Salo, Aki I. T.] Univ Bath, CAMERA, Bath, Avon, England; [Salo, Aki I. T.] KIHU Res Inst Olymp Sports, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Colyer, Steffi L.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000527143900001	19	Article; Article		
J	Shuv-Ami, Avichai; Alon, Anat Toder; Correia Loureiro, Sandra Maria; Kaufmann, Hans Ruediger								A new love-hate scale for sports fans								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	3			543	560		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2019-0122			AUG 3 2020	2020	Purpose This study, an empirical research, aims to construct and validate a new love-hate scale for sports fans and tested its antecedents and consequences. Design/methodology/approach The scale was designed and validated in three separate empirical survey studies in the context of Israeli professional basketball. In Phase 1, the authors verified the factorial validity of the proposed scale using exploratory factor analysis. In Phase 2, the authors conducted a confirmatory factor analysis using structural equation modeling. In Phase 3, the authors tested the nomological network validity of the scale. Findings The findings show that fans' involvement, loyalty and fandom significantly predicted their love-hate, which in turn significantly predicted self-reported fan aggression, fans' acceptance of fan aggression, price premium and frequency of watching games. Research limitations/implications - The model was tested on a relatively small sample of fans within a single country. This lack of generalizability should be addressed in future studies by examining the model in other sports contexts and countries. Practical implications - This study suggests that understanding the properties of the love-hate measure may assist team sports clubs in identifying, preventing and controlling potential fan aggression. Originality/value The study provides three incremental contributions above and beyond existing research: it develops and validates a scale for measuring the phenomenon of sports fans' love and hate as mixed emotions; it makes it possible to capture the variations in the magnitude of fans' love-hate; and it relates fans' love-hate to important attitudinal and behavioral outcomes.		[Shuv-Ami, Avichai] Coll Management Acad Studies, Rishon Leziyyon, Israel; [Alon, Anat Toder] Peres Acad Ctr, Rehovot, Israel; [Correia Loureiro, Sandra Maria] ISCTE Inst Univ Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal; [Kaufmann, Hans Ruediger] Univ Appl Management Studies, Mannheim, Germany; [Alon, Anat Toder] Peres Acad Ctr, Rehovot, Israel								28							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000526047900001	69	Article; Article		
J	Radel, Luke C.; Kobelski, Greggory P.; O'Brien, Michael J.; Meehan, William P., III; Sugimoto, Dai								Youth American football quarterback injuries: a descriptive study of 15 years of retrospective data								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	4			463	468		10.1080/00913847.2020.1749907			OCT 1 2020	2020	Objectives: To describe common injuries of youth American football quarterbacks (QBs) cared for in a regional sports medicine center within the last 15 years. Methods: A retrospective chart review of all male youth American football QB patients who sustained sports-related injuries at a regional pediatric medical center between 01/01/2003 and 10/01/2018. Patients were identified using HoundDog to search the term 'quarterback.' Records were then reviewed to identify all male QBs <= 18 years of age. Injures that were not a result of football participation were excluded. Main outcome variables were injured anatomic locations, injury types, surgical status, and settings in which the injury was sustained. Descriptive statistics were used to analyze the outcome variables. Results: A total of 374 QBs (mean age: 14.6 +/- 2.1) sustained a total of 423 injuries. The top 5 injured anatomic locations were shoulder (22%), knee (15%) head/neck (14%), elbow (13%), and wrist/hand/lower arm (11%). Most injuries (64.3%) were acute; 35.7% were chronic in nature. Most acute injuries (55.5%) occurred during games. Of the chronic injuries, 47.0% occurred during off-season and 34.4% occurred in-season. Among all injuries, 22.9% were surgical cases, and the top 3 anatomic locations of surgery were knee (35.0%), shoulder (20.7%), and elbow (18.7%). Conclusions: The shoulder is the most commonly injured body part among young QBs seeking care in a regional pediatric medical center, although the knee is the most commonly injured body part that requires surgery. Most QB injuries are acute in mechanism and the majority of these acute injuries occur during games.		[Radel, Luke C.] Mayo Clin, Div Community Pediat & Adolescent Med, Dept Pediat & Adolescent Med, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Kobelski, Greggory P.; O'Brien, Michael J.; Meehan, William P., III; Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Kobelski, Greggory P.; O'Brien, Michael J.; Meehan, William P., III] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [O'Brien, Michael J.; Meehan, William P., III] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Waseda Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Radel, Luke C.] Mayo Clin, Div Community Pediat & Adolescent Med, Dept Pediat & Adolescent Med, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000526679100001	24	Article; Article		
J	Winfree, Jason A.								Rivalries, Bowl Eligibility, and Scheduling Effects in College Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	5			477	492	1527002520916915	10.1177/1527002520916915			JUN 2020	2020	This study analyzes how the importance of a game, or characteristics of the previous game, impacts college football games. The results show that rivalry games are harder to predict, and the strength of the previous opponent influences the outcome of the game. If a team's previous game was close, this negatively influences the team. There is no evidence that the previous game's location or a team's bowl eligibility makes any difference. Given that universities control much of their football schedule and that the team's success influences many aspects of the university, scheduling can impact the university's finances.		[Winfree, Jason A.] Univ Idaho, Dept Agr Econ & Rural Sociol, Moscow, ID 83843 USA; [Winfree, Jason A.] Univ Idaho, Dept Agr Econ & Rural Sociol, Moscow, ID 83843 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000527656500001	28	Article; Article		
J	Pitts, Joshua D.; Evans, Brent A.								Defensive Coordinator and Head Coach Effects on Team Defensive Performance in the National Football League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	5			493	524	1527002520916220	10.1177/1527002520916220			JUN 2020	2020	This research examines the impact of defensive coordinators and head coaches on team defensive performance in the National Football League (NFL). We find that elite and very poor defensive coordinators and head coaches can have meaningful impacts on their teams' defensive performances. A team's defensive performance is shown to improve with increased defensive coordinator tenure. Similarly, defensive coordinators and head coaches who were NFL players contribute to improved defensive performance compared to coaches without experience as NFL players. In addition, a 3-4 defensive alignment is found to be associated with improved defensive performance compared to a 4-3 defensive alignment.		[Pitts, Joshua D.] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, 520 Parliament Garden Way NW,MD 4104, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA; [Evans, Brent A.] Georgia Coll & State Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, Milledgeville, GA USA; [Pitts, Joshua D.] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, 520 Parliament Garden Way NW,MD 4104, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000527666500001	31	Article; Article		
J	Cevik, Huseyin; Simsek, Kerem Yildirim								The effect of event experience quality on the satisfaction and behavioral intentions of motocross World Championship spectators								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	2			389	408		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2019-0052			MAY 4 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this study is to examine the theoretical relationship between experience quality (EXQ), satisfaction and the behavioral intentions (BI) of Motocross World Championship spectators. Design/methodology/approach The research data were collected from spectators who participated in the World Motocross Championship race held in Afyon, Turkey in 2018. The structural equation model (SEM) was used to test the relationship among the research variables. Findings The results showed EXQ had significant and direct effects on satisfaction and BI. In addition to this, satisfaction had a partial mediating effect between EXQ and BI. Originality/value To date there has been no empirical study examining the consumer behaviors of motocross event spectators. Consequently, this research provides important contributions to the literature and informs event organizers about the role of EXQ in terms of understanding the behavior of motocross event spectators.		[Cevik, Huseyin; Simsek, Kerem Yildirim] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Recreat, Eskisehir, Turkey; [Cevik, Huseyin] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Recreat, Eskisehir, Turkey								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000525296200001	92	Article; Article		
J	Machado, Joana Cesar; Martins, Carla Carvalho; Ferreira, Frederico Correia; Costa e Silva, Susana; Duarte, Paulo Alexandre								Motives to engage with sports brands on Facebook and Instagram-The case of a Portuguese football club								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	2			325	349		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2019-0066			MAY 4 2020	2020	Purpose Social network sites are key marketing tools that allow brands to connect and engage with consumers. However, there is still a lack of evidence of their value for football brands. This research aims to understand the motivations for fans to engage with their favourite football brands on Facebook and Instagram. Design/methodology/approach An online survey was performed, resulting in 214 valid responses. As the social media strategy followed by the football brand analysed was built around games, the authors divided fans into two groups based on the main method in which the club's games are watched: in stadium versus mediated. Multiple linear regression analysis was used to explore the relationship between motivations and fans' engagement, through content consumption and contribution, on Facebook and Instagram. Analysis was performed first with the whole sample and then by group (stadium attendance vs mediated attendance fans). Findings The findings show that social influence, entertainment, searching for information and rewards are the most relevant motivations for consumers to engage with brand-related content on Facebook. Entertainment, rewards and social influence are the main motivations influencing consumer interactions on Instagram. Group moderation was only confirmed in the impact of social influence on Facebook page content consumption. Originality/value The results provide valuable insights into the social media marketing activities of sports brands, which will assist brand managers to develop strategies for effectively stimulating engagement with the different groups of fans.		[Machado, Joana Cesar; Martins, Carla Carvalho; Ferreira, Frederico Correia; Costa e Silva, Susana] Univ Catolica Portuguesa, Catolica Porto Business Sch, Porto, Portugal; [Machado, Joana Cesar; Martins, Carla Carvalho; Costa e Silva, Susana] Univ Catolica Portuguesa, CEGE Res Ctr Management & Econ, Porto, Portugal; [Duarte, Paulo Alexandre] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Management & Econ, NECE Res Unit Business Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Martins, Carla Carvalho] Univ Catolica Portuguesa, Catolica Porto Business Sch, Porto, Portugal; [Martins, Carla Carvalho] Univ Catolica Portuguesa, CEGE Res Ctr Management & Econ, Porto, Portugal								39							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000522866300001	102	Article; Article		
J	Marquez, Armin; Cianfrone, Beth A.; Kellison, Timothy								Factors affecting spectators' adoption of digital ticketing: the case of interscholastic sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	3			527	541		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2019-0080			AUG 3 2020	2020	Purpose The paper investigates the factors influencing spectators' adoption of digital (mobile) ticketing by expanding the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM; Davis, 1989) to include two variables overlooked in previous ticketing research: (1) trust of digital ticketing and (2) willingness to pay convenience fees. The study provides information on consumer behavior that may aid sports managers' decision-making. Design/methodology/approach Through a paper-and-pencil survey of high school American football spectators (N = 523) over 12 games, the study examined perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness, the trust of digital ticketing, willingness to pay convenience fees and their effects on spectators' intention to use digital ticketing. Findings Trust of digital ticketing, willingness to pay a convenience fee and the perceived ease of use were found to influence the perceived usefulness of the technology, which, in turn, had a significant effect on the intention to use. Willingness to pay fees also had a direct effect on intention. Research limitations/implications - Although every intention was made to ascertain a diverse sampling of schools (urban vs. suburban, large vs. small), it is worth noting that the sample location may be a limitation for the overall applicability. Practical implications - The manuscript includes practical applications for marketers and ticket sales staff. Digital (mobile) ticketing is on the rise. As segments like high school athletics adopt the technology, spectators' evaluation of digital ticketing must be considered, given its impact on intentions to use. Originality/value The findings support the use of willingness to pay convenience fees and trust of digital ticketing as considerations in the TAM for understanding digital ticketing.		[Marquez, Armin; Cianfrone, Beth A.; Kellison, Timothy] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Cianfrone, Beth A.] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000522866100001	51	Article; Article		
J	Demirel, Apollo								CSR in sport sponsorship consumers' perceptions of a sponsoring brand's CSR								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	2			371	388		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2019-0108			MAY 4 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to investigate the link between sponsorship of professional sport teams and consumers' socially responsible perceptions of a sponsoring brand. More specifically, this research investigates if sponsorship of professional sport teams in itself leads consumers to perceive a sponsoring brand as socially responsible, and what factors may produce CSR perceptions and subsequent consumer response. Design/methodology/approach An experimental study was conducted to examine the impact of sponsorship of professional sport teams on consumers' CSR perceptions of a sponsoring brand. Further, a field study was used to explore the role of sponsorship fit in generating CSR perceptions. Findings The results from the experimental study indicated that brand sponsorship of professional sport teams contributes to the socially responsible image of that brand, and sponsorship fit induces consumers' CSR perceptions of a sponsoring brand. Additionally, the results from the field study identified CSR perceptions as an underlying process driving the effect of sponsorship fit on consumers' behavioral intentions toward a sponsoring brand. Lastly, the role of team identification was shown as a boundary condition shaping the effects of sponsorship fit. Practical implications - Brands specifically seeking to create a socially responsible image, thanks to sponsoring a sport team, should consider the importance of perceived fit between their brand and the sponsored sport team as it is a key predictor of CSR perceptions. Originality/value This paper provides empirical evidence for the sport sponsorship and CSR perceptions link and sheds light on important predictors for consumer response.		[Demirel, Apollo] Dominican Univ Calif, San Rafael, CA 94901 USA; [Demirel, Apollo] Dominican Univ Calif, San Rafael, CA 94901 USA								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000522721800001	72	Article; Article		
J	Covassin, Tracey; McGowan, Amanda L.; Bretzin, Abigail C.; Anderson, Morgan; Petit, Kyle Michael; Savage, Jennifer L.; Katie, Stephenson L.; Elbin, R. J.; Pontifex, Matthew Brian								Preliminary investigation of a multimodal enhanced brain function index among high school and collegiate concussed male and female athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	4			442	449		10.1080/00913847.2020.1745717			OCT 1 2020	2020	Objective: The primary purpose of this study was to examine the longitudinal effects of sports-related concussion (SRC) on a multi-faceted assessment battery which included neuropsychological testing, symptom reporting, and enhanced brain function index (eBFI) among athletes with and without SRC. A secondary purpose was to explore longitudinal sex differences among these measures in athletes with and without SRC. Methods: A case-control, repeated-measures design was used for this study. A total of 186 athletes (concussed group:n = 87 controls:n = 99) participated in the study. A repeated-measures design was used in which each athlete was tested at four time points following an SRC: within 72 h of injury (Day 0; 2.0 +/- 0.9 days following injury), 5 days following injury (Day 5; 5.0 +/- 0.0), at return to play (RTP; 18.3 +/- 13.8 days following injury), and within 45 days following RTP (RTP45; 66.2 +/- 19.0 days following injury). All analyses were conducted separately using a 2 (Group: concussed, control) x 2 (Sex: male, female) x 4 (Time:Day 0, Day 5, RTP, RTP45) univariate multi-level model including the random intercept for each participant. A higher eBFI score indicates a better performance. Alpha level was set aprior at .05. This study was registered on clinicaltrials.gov (Objective Brain Function Assessment of mTBI/Concussion in College/high school Athletes NCT02477943, NCT02661633, CAS 13-25 NCT03963804). Results: Concussed athletes exhibited impaired eBFI within 72 h of SRC and at Day 5 compared to controls (p <.001). Analysis of eBFI scores between male and female athletes revealed a main effect of sex (p =.05), with female athletes exhibiting lower eBFI (33.9 +/- 30.7) relative to male athletes (40.4 +/- 33.0), however, it did not indicate interactions between sex, group, and time (p's >= 0.786). Conclusion: The eBFI appears to be a useful tool in determining concussed athletes during the acute stages of an SRC. However, this index may lack the sensitivity to detect sex-related differences between groups at various time points during recovery.		[Covassin, Tracey; McGowan, Amanda L.; Anderson, Morgan; Petit, Kyle Michael; Pontifex, Matthew Brian] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 308 W Circle Dr, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Bretzin, Abigail C.] Univ Penn, Dept Biostat Epidemiol & Informat, Penn Injury Sci Ctr, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Savage, Jennifer L.] Cumberland Univ, Rudy Sch Nursing & Hlth Profess, Lebanon, TN USA; [Katie, Stephenson L.; Elbin, R. J.] Univ Arkansas, Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, Fayetteville, AR 72701 USA; [Covassin, Tracey] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 308 W Circle Dr, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000523708400001	53	Article; Article		
J	Gleason, Benjamin H.; Bellon, Christopher R.; Szymanski, David J.								Practitioner-Driven Recommendations for the Professional Evaluation of the Strength and Conditioning Coach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	2			82	94		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000512			APR 2020	2020	The purpose of this article is to provide a practical framework for athletic administrators and senior coaches to use in evaluating a strength and conditioning coach (SCC) under their supervision. A formal objective evaluation process may improve training outcomes, prevent common troublesome issues in the field, increase accountability, and optimize organizational dynamics. Recommendations include planned, systematic, and documented observation of work performed, review of performance testing data, and developmental feedback meetings between the SCC and the supervisor. Some modification may be necessary for each sector of the field. However, the general themes may still be followed by supervisors.		[Gleason, Benjamin H.; Szymanski, David J.] Louisiana Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Ruston, LA 71270 USA; [Bellon, Christopher R.] The Citadel, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Charleston, SC 29409 USA; [Gleason, Benjamin H.] Louisiana Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Ruston, LA 71270 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986700008	51	Article; Article		
J	Chavda, Shyam; Turner, Anthony N.; Comfort, Paul; Haff, Guy Gregory; Williams, Steve; Bishop, Chris; Lake, Jason P.								A Practical Guide to Analyzing the Force-Time Curve of Isometric Tasks in Excel								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	2			26	37		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000507			APR 2020	2020	Understanding force generating capabilities of athletes is an important facet of strength diagnostics. The use of isometric tasks such as the isometric squat and isometric midthigh pull are therefore popular methods used to gain a deeper understanding as to what strength characteristics have changed over a given period. This article aims to provide information on how to understand and analyse the force-time curve of isometric tasks in microsoft excel, thus providing practitioners an inexpensive and accessible alternative to readily available software on the market.		[Chavda, Shyam; Turner, Anthony N.; Williams, Steve; Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, London, England; [Comfort, Paul; Haff, Guy Gregory] Univ Salford, Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Manchester, England; [Haff, Guy Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Lake, Jason P.] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Coll Lane, Chichester, England; [Chavda, Shyam] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, London, England								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986700004	55	Article; Article		
J	Drum, Scott N.; Donath, Lars; Dehlin, Chris; Kashou, Anthony; Noseworthy, Peter A.; Zacher, Jonas								Atrial Fibrillation: Should Lifelong Athletes Be Worried?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	2			122	130		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000515			APR 2020	2020	Atrial fibrillation (AF) in lifetime athletes (e.g., >= 5 years of participation) is a growing concern but remains enigmatic. Intriguingly, a direct relationship between lifetime training hours and risk of developing AF exists. Professionals in exercise and sport science are at the forefront to help recognize symptoms and direct the athlete to appropriate medical clinicians for expedient care. Although AF in athletes is usually not accompanied by structural heart disease or stroke risk factors (i.e., termed lone AF), it may, nonetheless, pose health risks. In this study, we review various types of AF, proposed mechanisms, and treatment strategies for athletes with AF.		[Drum, Scott N.] Northern Michigan Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Marquette, MI 49855 USA; [Donath, Lars] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Cologne, Germany; [Dehlin, Chris] Singletrack Hlth, Family Med, Marquette, MI USA; [Kashou, Anthony] Mayo Clin, Internal Med, Rochester, MN USA; [Noseworthy, Peter A.] Mayo Clin, Cardiovasc Med, Rochester, MN USA; [Zacher, Jonas] German Sports Univ Cologne, Inst Cardiovasc Res & Sports Med, Cologne, Germany; [Drum, Scott N.] Northern Michigan Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Marquette, MI 49855 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986700011	39	Article; Article		
J	Sousa, Antonio C.; Neiva, Henrique P.; Izquierdo, Mikel; Alves, Ana R.; Duarte-Mendes, Pedro; Ramalho, Andre G.; Marques, Mario C.; Marinho, Daniel A.								Concurrent Training Intensities: A Practical Approach for Program Design								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	2			38	44		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000520			APR 2020	2020	Sports performance is influenced by the interaction of several physical variables. For this reason, most sports need both strength and endurance capacities to maximize overall performance. Therefore, a combination of resistance and aerobic training, usually called concurrent training (CT), has been used recently as a way of simultaneously improving strength and aerobic performances according to the needs of a specific sport. This combination can be challenging and can influence training adaptations, being a problematic issue for coaches. The main objective is to provide coaches with a practical proposal for CT to improve athletes' performance in different sports.		[Sousa, Antonio C.; Neiva, Henrique P.; Alves, Ana R.; Marques, Mario C.; Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Sousa, Antonio C.; Neiva, Henrique P.; Alves, Ana R.; Marques, Mario C.; Marinho, Daniel A.] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal; [Izquierdo, Mikel] Univ Publ Navarra, Dept Hlth Sci, Pamplona, Spain; [Duarte-Mendes, Pedro; Ramalho, Andre G.] Polytech Inst Castelo Branco, Dept Sport & Well Being, Castelo Branco, Portugal; [Duarte-Mendes, Pedro; Ramalho, Andre G.] Polytech Inst Castelo Branco, Sport Hlth & Exercise Res Unit, Castelo Branco, Portugal; [Marques, Mario C.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Sport Sci, Covilha, Portugal; [Marques, Mario C.] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sport Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Covilha, Portugal								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986700005	42	Article; Article		
J	Armour, Mike; Parry, Kelly A.; Steel, Kylie; Smith, Caroline A.								Australian female athlete perceptions of the challenges associated with training and competing when menstrual symptoms are present								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			316	323	1747954120916073	10.1177/1747954120916073			JUN 2020	2020	Coaches consider various competencies (e.g. conditioning, nutrition, skills and tactics), when planning sessions, though rarely the impact of menstruation on the efficacy of training and competition performance for athletes. Given the impact menstrual symptoms can have on athletes, the management strategies that athletes may use to minimise any potential impact, and the mechanisms that provide barriers to greater coach athlete interaction require investigation and consideration. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the strategies used by athletes to manage menstrual symptoms and the role coaches played in this process. An anonymous, 36-item questionnaire was developed and hosted on Qualtrics. Descriptive statistics and Chi-square statistics were used to analyse the data. One hundred and twenty-four valid responses from Australian athletes 16-45, with a mean age of 29 years, were received. Period pain (82%) and pre-menstrual symptoms (83%) were commonly reported and contributed to fatigue and to perceived reductions in performance during or just prior to the period (50.0% in training, 58.7% on 'game day'). Contraceptive use was reported by 42% of athletes. Those reporting heavy menstrual bleeding (269.7%) were more likely to report increased fatigue (relative risk 1.6, 95% CI 1.07 to 2.32). Over three-quarters of athletes reported neither they nor their coaches altered training due to the menstrual cycle. Most athletes (76%) did not discuss menstruation with their coaches. Given the perceived negative impact on performance and potential risks with contraceptive usage during adolescence, coaches, trainers and athletes need to have a more open dialogue around the menstrual cycle.		[Armour, Mike; Parry, Kelly A.; Smith, Caroline A.] Western Sydney Univ, NICM Hlth Res Inst, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Armour, Mike; Smith, Caroline A.] Western Sydney Univ, THRI, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Parry, Kelly A.] Western Sydney Univ, Ctr Educ Res, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Steel, Kylie] Western Sydney Univ, Sch Sci & Hlth, MARCS Inst, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Armour, Mike] Western Sydney Univ, Locked Bag 1797, Penrith, NSW 2751, Australia								120							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000523533200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Boronczyk, Felix; Breuer, Christoph								Brand-related feelings and sponsor attitude formation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	3			513	526		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2019-0118			AUG 3 2020	2020	Purpose This study examines how brand attitude formation with respect to sport event sponsors is affected by feelings related to the sponsor brand, the sponsored event, and concurrent sponsors. Design/methodology/approach Using systematically manipulated press releases, 216 sport-interested participants were presented with different sponsorships of a major sport event. Sponsor information was systematically manipulated both within the stimulus text and the accompanying photo, which contained clearly visible sponsor signage. Participants' brand-related feelings and attitudes toward the stimulus brands were assessed through an online questionnaire following the treatment and analyzed using structural equation modeling. Findings The results show that sponsor brand-related feelings represent an important step in the creation of brand attitudes. Sponsor brand attitudes are further revealed to be in part determined by event- and co-sponsor-related feelings through several indirect pathways. Practical implications - The findings presented in this study suggest that managers who seek to create favorable brand responses need to consider the feelings associated with their brands, the event and concurrent sponsors. Brands may experience both beneficial and detrimental effects, depending on whether the feelings involved are positive or negative. Originality/value To date, no research has investigated the relationships between brand-related feelings and brand attitudes in event sponsorship while accounting for the influence of the sponsored event and concurrent sponsors. Therefore, this study contributes to a better understanding of the role of feelings in sponsor brand attitude formation.		[Boronczyk, Felix; Breuer, Christoph] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Boronczyk, Felix] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000522687000001	56	Article; Article		
J	Kalinowski, Pawel; Bojkowski, Lukasz; Sliwowski, Robert; Wieczorek, Andrzej; Konarski, Jan; Tomczak, Maciej								Mediational role of coping with stress in relationship between personality and effectiveness of performance of soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			354	363	1747954120915190	10.1177/1747954120915190			JUN 2020	2020	There is a trend in soccer to ensure comprehensive player preparation including fitness, technical and tactical, as well as mental aspects. It has been emphasized many times that personality traits (neuroticism, conscientiousness, extraversion) are significant for the effectiveness of performance in soccer. The question of why these relations occur has been considered relatively rarely. Therefore, the aim of this study is an attempt to explain these relations through introduction of ways of coping with stress as their significant mediators. It is hence assumed that players with certain personality traits are characterized by specific ways of coping with stress which are related to the effectiveness of their performance. The study group consisted of 122 players, aged 16-19 years. The participants of the study were youth teams at the championship level (medalists of the youth Polish Championships), and the following research tools were used: NEO-FFI Personality Inventory, The Coping Inventory for Competitive Sport (CICS) and Szwarc's Observation Sheet for effectiveness in soccer. It was demonstrated that task-focused ways of coping with stress (effort expenditure, thought control, and logical analysis) were the most frequent mediators of relations between the studied traits and the effectiveness of performance of soccer players.		[Kalinowski, Pawel; Sliwowski, Robert; Wieczorek, Andrzej] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Theory & Methodol Team Sport Games, Krolowej Jadwigi 27-39, PL-61871 Poznan, Poland; [Bojkowski, Lukasz; Tomczak, Maciej] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Psychol, Poznan, Poland; [Konarski, Jan] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Theory Sport, Poznan, Poland; [Kalinowski, Pawel] Poznan Univ Phys Educ, Dept Theory & Methodol Team Sport Games, Krolowej Jadwigi 27-39, PL-61871 Poznan, Poland								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000523009100001	31	Article; Article		
J	van Vuuren, Hanno; Welman, Karen; Kraak, Wilbur								Concussion knowledge and attitudes amongst community club rugby stakeholders								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			297	305	1747954120913175	10.1177/1747954120913175			JUN 2020	2020	Due to the nature of rugby, concussions are a frequent occurrence and can go undetected by different stakeholders. Knowledge regarding identification of symptoms, management and prevention of re-injury is crucial for the welfare of players. The aim of the study was to determine the concussion knowledge and attitudes among different community club rugby stakeholders. The study gathered quantitative information by utilizing the Rosenbaum Concussion Knowledge and Attitude Survey-Student Version (RoCKAS-ST). Of all the participants (N = 434), medical staff (79 +/- 10%) provided the highest Concussion Knowledge Index scores followed by referees (78 +/- 8%) and players (67 +/- 13%). The stakeholders scored 76% overall for Concussion Attitude Index. Across the scenarios the different participants believed to have safer attitudes compared to that of others within their team. Statistical differences were found between stakeholders when asked if concussion is less important than other injuries, as players, coaches and administrative staff all indicated an unsafe response in contrast to that of referees (p < 0.01). Players indicated an unsafe attitude towards returning to play, while symptomatic as a result of a concussion whereas coaches indicated a safer response (p < 0.01). Only two out of eight legitimate symptoms, headaches and dizziness, were correctly identified by 80% or more of participants, which warrants concern that identification of symptoms could be lacking on this level. Investigating the knowledge and attitudes of concussion at community club rugby level could identify which areas are to be further targeted by the South African Rugby Union.		[van Vuuren, Hanno; Kraak, Wilbur] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Welman, Karen] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Movement Lab, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Kraak, Wilbur] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000523000500001	32	Article; Article		
J	Vial, Shayne; Croft, James L.; Schroeder, Ryan T.; Blazevich, Anthony J.; Wilkie, Jodie Cochrane								Does the presence of an opponent affect object projection accuracy in elite athletes? A study of the landing location of the short serve in elite badminton players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			412	417	1747954120915670	10.1177/1747954120915670			JUN 2020	2020	The ability to accurately project (e.g. throw, kick, hit) an object at high speed is a uniquely human skill, and this ability has become a critical feature of many competitive sports. Nonetheless, in some sports, the target or end-point for a projected object is often not reached because an opponent intercepts or returns the object; thus, a player cannot use object landing location information to inform accuracy outcome. By comparing the landing location of serves performed without an opponent by elite badminton players to predicted landing points of serves delivered with an opponent, we aimed to determine whether object projection accuracy is affected by the presence of an opponent. Landing locations of serves to an opponent were predicted using a model developed through analysis of serves without an opponent present. The model predicted that 69% of serves to an opponent would have landed on or short (i.e. outside the permitted area) of the service line. Thus, serve trajectory in elite badminton players was considerably altered by the presence of an opponent, despite their aim to serve to a specific point on the court.		[Vial, Shayne; Schroeder, Ryan T.; Blazevich, Anthony J.; Wilkie, Jodie Cochrane] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Croft, James L.; Schroeder, Ryan T.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Vial, Shayne] Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Perth, WA 6027, Australia								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000523000400001	23	Article; Article		
J	Janicijevic, Danica; Knezevic, Olivera M.; Mirkov, Dragan M.; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Petrovic, Milos; Samozino, Pierre; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								The force-velocity relationship obtained during the squat jump exercise is meaningfully influenced by the initial knee angle								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	9			1136	1145		10.1080/14763141.2020.1727559			OCT 21 2022	2022	This study aimed to compare the magnitude of the force-velocity (F-V) relationship parameters (maximum force [F-0], maximum velocity [V-0], F-V slope, and maximum power [P-max]) between the squat jumps (SJ) performed from different knee angles. The F-V relationships of 12 men were assessed in 3 sessions during the SJ performed from a knee angle of 80 degrees (SJ80), 90 degrees (SJ90) and 100 degrees (SJ100). The SJ100 provided likely to very likely higher values of F-0 and P-max compared to SJ80 (86% and 98%, respectively) and SJ90 (73% and 94%, respectively), while unclear and trivial differences were observed for the remaining comparisons. The magnitude of the correlations between the 3 SJ types was very large to nearly perfect for P-max (r range = 0.864 to 0.940), moderate to very large for F-0 (r range = 0.438 to 0.778), and small to large for V-0 (r range = 0.361 to 0.642) and the F-V slope (r range = 0.178 to 0.645). These results suggest that the F-V relationship assessed during the SJ exercise is affected by the initial knee angle with the increase of the knee angle from 80 degrees to 100 degrees being associated with higher values of F-0 and P-max, while V-0 remains unchanged.		[Janicijevic, Danica; Mirkov, Dragan M.; Petrovic, Milos] Univ Belgrade, Res Ctr, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Belgrade, Serbia; [Knezevic, Olivera M.] Univ Belgrade, Inst Med Res, Belgrade, Serbia; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Sport Sci, Granada, Spain; [Samozino, Pierre] Univ Savoie Mt Blanc, Chambery, France; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Fac Educ, Concepcion, Chile; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Sport Sci, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Fac Educ, Concepcion, Chile								20							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000523758900001	28	Article; Article		
J	Meier, Philippe; Flepp, Raphael; Ruedisser, Maximilian; Franck, Egon								The Advantage of Scoring Just Before the Half-Time Break-Pure Myth? Quasi-Experimental Evidence From European Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	5			548	565	1527002520913102	10.1177/1527002520913102			JUN 2020	2020	We examine whether the moment just before the half-time break is a particularly good time to score a goal. Using detailed data from the top five European football leagues between the 2013-2014 and 2017-2018 seasons, we exploit the quasi-random occurrence of goals scored just before and just after the half-time break. In the former situation, the game is exogenously interrupted by a break immediately after the goal, whereas in the latter situation, the game continues without interruption. We show that in the case of a goal being scored just before halftime, the scoring team benefits more from the half-time break than the conceding team.		[Meier, Philippe; Flepp, Raphael; Ruedisser, Maximilian; Franck, Egon] Univ Zurich, Dept Business Adm, Plattenstr 14, CH-8032 Zurich, Switzerland; [Meier, Philippe] Univ Zurich, Dept Business Adm, Plattenstr 14, CH-8032 Zurich, Switzerland								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000523932100001	32	Article; Article		
J	Pyun, Do Young; Cho, Heetae; Leng, Ho Keat								Applicability of belief measures for advertising to sponsorship in sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	2			351	369		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2019-0059			MAY 4 2020	2020	Purpose While advertising and sponsorship are conceptually different, many studies have used the same measures for both constructs. The assumption is that respondents perceive both domains similarly. The purpose of this study was to test the invariance of the belief measures between the advertising and sponsorship measurement models across different consumer segments and to provide empirical justification for the practice. Design/methodology/approach Two independent samples were recruited from two different consumer segments: university student consumers (n = 290) and general consumers (n = 324). This study conducted multigroup invariance tests using LISREL 8.80. The measurement and structural invariances were concerned with factor loadings (lambda), factor variance and covariance (f) and error variance (theta) metrics. Findings The factor patterns of the belief model were generally invariant between the advertising and sponsorship models in both consumer groups. However, the respondents interpreted three items between advertising and sponsorship in different ways: one annoyance/irritation item in the generic consumer group and two falsity/no sense items in the student consumer groups. Originality/value While the invariance test reveals three problematic items, the majority of items seem to be invariant, concluding that the advertising belief scale could be applicable to the sponsorship context.		[Pyun, Do Young] Loughborough Univ, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Cho, Heetae] Nanyang Technol Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Jurong West, Singapore; [Leng, Ho Keat] Nanyang Technol Univ, Jurong West, Singapore; [Cho, Heetae] Nanyang Technol Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Jurong West, Singapore								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000522468900001	71	Article; Article		
J	Mateus, Nuno; Esteves, Pedro; Goncalves, Bruno; Torres, Ivan; Angel Gomez, Miguel; Arede, Jorge; Leite, Nuno								Clustering performance in the European Basketball according to players' characteristics and contextual variables								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			405	411	1747954120911308	10.1177/1747954120911308			JUN 2020	2020	The aim of this study was two-fold: (i) to identify differences in the game performance profiles of basketball players in Euroleague and European national championships; and (ii) to analyse the influence of player-related (e.g. age or court-position) and contextual variables (e.g. distance travelled or game break) in players' game-related statistics. Archival data from 2014/2015 and 2015/2016 seasons (n = 16,268 individual game performance records) of Euroleague and European national championships were separately analyzed using a two-step cluster model and then a discriminant analysis to differentiate the obtained groups. The clustering process allowed identifying three and five different performance player profiles for Euroleague and national championships, respectively. The discriminant analysis identified differences in Euroleague playing profiles, particularly related to performers' age and court-position. In national championships, this trend was not observed. Regardless of the competition, a relationship was perceived between players' performance and minutes played; conversely, the players' performance seems to not be affected by contextual variables. The current results provide evidence of different players' profiles in elite basketball to coaches regarding the influence of player-related and contextual variables. Coaching staffs may account for this information for better management and understanding of their team composition when playing in different competitions.		[Mateus, Nuno; Esteves, Pedro; Goncalves, Bruno; Arede, Jorge; Leite, Nuno] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Esteves, Pedro] Polytech Inst Guarda, Guarda, Portugal; [Torres, Ivan; Leite, Nuno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth Dept, Vila Real, Portugal; [Angel Gomez, Miguel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Leite, Nuno] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Ap 202, P-5000911 Vila Real, Portugal								30							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000523844300001	30	Article; Article		
J	O'Sullivan, Mary								Global Challenges and Opportunities for Physical Education Teacher Educators								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			327	338		10.1080/02701367.2020.1730295			JUL 3 2021	2021	This McCloy Lecture sheds light on the "hidden profession" of Physical Education Teacher Educators (PETEs) by sharing my perspectives on the challenges and opportunities faced by PETE scholars and teachers globally. I begin with an overview of my biography and how it has influenced my thinking about PETE. I present some scholarly critiques of PETE, a selection of PETE research findings and address key policy issues within teacher education across several national educational systems describing how Physical Education teacher educators manage (or not) the challenges and opportunities in the practice of teacher education in modern-day universities. I draw on data from my international study of experienced Physical Education teacher educators about the nature of their work in academe and the status of physical education teacher education locally, nationally and globally. I also draw on the perspectives of Irish teacher educators about the challenges of being active producers and users of research in a challenging national policy context. I conclude with a set of observations about how best to build capacity among Physical Education teacher educators so they can thrive as research active and innovative teachers in the modern university.		[O'Sullivan, Mary] Univ Limerick, Limerick, Ireland; [O'Sullivan, Mary] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000524096400001	48	Article; Article		
J	Belfry, Glen R.; Paterson, Don H.; Thomas, Scott G.								High-Intensity 10-s Work: 5-s Recovery Intermittent Training Improves Anaerobic and Aerobic Performances								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			640	651		10.1080/02701367.2019.1696928			OCT 1 2020	2020	Purpose and Methods: To compare the effects of a set of 12-30 min, maximal effort, constant load cycle bouts (HICT) to 12 short work: shorter rest (10 s: 5 s) interval sessions (INT) of similar duration and effort, performed on alternate days over 4 weeks, on performance and V?O-2 l(.)min(-1). INT sessions consisted of repeated cycles of 10 s work followed by 5 s of recovery for 30 min. Fourteen male athletes (83 kg +/- 6, 24year +/- 2) were randomly assigned to HICT (n = 7) or INT (n = 7) training. Pre- and post-power output (PO), V?O-2 and V?O-2peak, during 60s, 3 min, and ramp (RAMP) tests were collected Results: Between group comparisons showed increased mean PO, pre- to post-INT training (p = .026) over the last min of the 3-min test whereas PO post-HICT training declined. INT showed greater training effects on the 60 s test than HCIT (INT 506 +/- 45 to 535 +/- 55 W; p = .002, Cd = .57; HCIT 513 +/- 78 to 548 +/- 83 W; p = .02, Cd = 27). RAMP peak PO and V?O-2peak increased within both groups (INT 341 +/- 63 to 370 +/- 48 W, p = .002, Cd = 0.52; HICT 332 +/- 45 to 353 +/- 44 W, p = .006, Cd = .53; 3.73 +/- 0.68 to 4.06 +/- 0.63 L center dot min(-1), p = .001, Cd = .50; 3.75 +/- 0.62 to 4.09 +/- 0.52 L center dot min(-1), p = .002, Cd = .59). Conclusion(s): These results show that utilizing this novel short work: shorter rest (10 s: 5 s) interval training paradigm will elicit better performances in moderate duration performances compared to continuous training of the same duration, effort, and frequency.		[Belfry, Glen R.; Paterson, Don H.] Univ Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada; [Thomas, Scott G.] Univ Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Belfry, Glen R.] Univ Western Ontario, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000524608200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Chu, Anne H. Y.; Bernard, Jonathan Y.; Koh, David; Muller-Riemenschneider, Falk								Accelerometer Profile of Physical Activity and Sedentary Behavior in a Multi-Ethnic Urban Asian Population								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			361	368		10.1080/02701367.2020.1734520			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: Variability in accelerometry-data processing decisions limited data comparability across studies. We aimed to examine different accelerometry-data processing rules: varying bout lengths and allowance of 0- and 2-min interruptions on the total and bout-accumulated time spent in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) and sedentary behavior estimates, and describe the distribution of activity time based on counts per min (CPM) in granular categories. Method: Using the Singapore Health 2 survey, this study included 746 adults (41.8% women, median age 45.0 years) who provided valid ActiGraph GT3X+ accelerometer-data (>= 4 valid days with >= 10-h/day). Quantile regression analysis adjusting for accelerometry daily wear time, age, and gender was performed to calculate the median and interquartile range of accelerometry estimates. Results: Median MVPA time accumulated in bouts of 1-min versus bouts of 10-min was 39.2 min/day and 6.0 min/day, respectively. MVPA time was higher when considering a 2-min interruption (range: 1.8-39.2 min/day) compared to 0-min interruption (range: 0-35.5 min/day) across bout lengths of 1- to 15-min. Participants were sedentary (<= 100 CPM) for a daily median of 7.6 h/day. Median activities min/day on the lower-intensity activity spectrum (100-2499 CPM) decreased from 63.4 to 4.6 min/day, while on the higher-intensity activity spectrum (>= 2500 CPM) was <= 2.9 min/day. Men generally spent more time in MVPA than women. Conclusions: This study highlights the differences in accelerometry estimates based on data processing decisions, and the importance of quantifying accelerometry-based activity time across the granular intensity spectrum. More studies are warranted to understand the determinants and health impact of these behaviors.		[Chu, Anne H. Y.; Koh, David; Muller-Riemenschneider, Falk] Natl Univ Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; [Chu, Anne H. Y.; Bernard, Jonathan Y.] ASTAR, Singapore, Singapore; [Bernard, Jonathan Y.] Univ Paris, Ctr Res Epidemiol & Stat CRESS, Paris, France; [Koh, David] Univ Brunei Darussalam, Gadong, Brunei; [Muller-Riemenschneider, Falk] Charite, Med Ctr, Berlin, Germany; [Chu, Anne H. Y.] Natl Univ Singapore, Saw Swee Hock Sch Publ Hlth, Singapore 117549, Singapore								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000519364600001	37	Article; Article		
J	Sterner, Jay A.; Reaves, Scott K.; Aguinaldo, Arnel L.; Hazelwood, Scott J.; Klisch, Stephen M.								Inverse dynamics analysis of youth pitching arm kinetics using body composition imaging								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	9			993	1007		10.1080/14763141.2020.1715470			OCT 21 2022	2022	This study's objectives were to: (1) assess whether dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)-mass inverse dynamics (ID) alters predictions of youth pitching arm kinetics and (2) investigate correlations between kinetics and body composition. Eighteen 10- to 11-year-olds pitched 10 fastballs. DXA scans were conducted to obtain participant-specific upper arm, forearm, and hand masses. Pitching arm segment masses and kinetics calculated with scaled and DXA masses were compared with paired t-tests and correlations were investigated with linear regression. Hand (p < 0.001) and upper arm (p < 0.001) DXA masses were greater, while forearm (p < 0.001) DXA masses were lesser, than their scaled masses. Shoulder compressive force (p < 0.001), internal rotation torque (p < 0.001), and horizontal adduction torque (p = 0.002) increased when using DXA masses. Shoulder compressive force correlated with body mass (p < 0.001) and body mass index (BMI; p = 0.002) and elbow varus torque correlated with body mass (p < 0.05). The main conclusions were that (1) using participant-specific mass ratios leads to different predictions of injury-related pitching arm kinetics and, thus, may improve our understanding of injury risk factors; and (2) pitching arm kinetics were correlated with body composition measures and a relatively high total body mass and/or BMI may increase shoulder and/or elbow injury risk.		[Sterner, Jay A.; Hazelwood, Scott J.; Klisch, Stephen M.] Cal Poly State Univ, Coll Engn, Mech Engn, San Luis Obispo, CA 93407 USA; [Reaves, Scott K.] Cal Poly State Univ, Coll Agr Food & Environm Sci, Food Sci & Nutr, San Luis Obispo, CA USA; [Aguinaldo, Arnel L.] Point Loma Nazarene Univ, Coll Kinesiol, Kinesiol, San Diego, CA USA; [Hazelwood, Scott J.; Klisch, Stephen M.] Cal Poly State Univ, Coll Engn, Biomed Engn, San Luis Obispo, CA 93407 USA; [Klisch, Stephen M.] Cal Poly State Univ, Coll Engn, Mech Engn, San Luis Obispo, CA 93407 USA; [Klisch, Stephen M.] Cal Poly State Univ, Coll Engn, Biomed Engn, San Luis Obispo, CA 93407 USA								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518722300001	26	Article; Article		
J	Ibrahim, Norzuria; Abu Osman, Noor Azuan; Mokhtar, Abdul Halim; Arifin, Nooranida; Usman, Juliana; Shasmin, Hanie Nadia								Contribution of the arm segment rotations towards the horizontal ball and racket head velocities during forehand long shot and drop shot services in table tennis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	9			1065	1081		10.1080/14763141.2020.1726995			OCT 21 2022	2022	Service is assumed important in table tennis because an effective service may allow the serving player to control over the game; hence, the aim of this study was to determine the contribution of arm segment rotations towards ball impact during forehand service. Sixteen shake-hand grip collegiate table tennis athletes had participated in the study. It was revealed that by increasing the radial deviation angular velocity will increase the ball and racket velocities during drop shot service. Furthermore, it was revealed that increasing the wrist palmar flexion and radial deviation will enhance the racket velocity at impact during long shot service. However, it was recommended to the players not to concern on racket speed and arm segment rotations during contact phase as it could not accelerate the ball at impact during long shot service. Although it was the same forehand service, different length of flight ball lead to different contributions of arm segment rotations towards ball impact. The present findings highlight several better postures to increase racket and ball speed at impact during forehand long shot and drop shot services among advanced and intermediate players. Other ranked players may find this study useful as a fundamental understanding on kinematics serving arm.		[Ibrahim, Norzuria] UTHM, Fac Appl Sci & Technol, Dept Math, Batu Pahat, Malaysia; [Abu Osman, Noor Azuan] Univ Malaya, Fac Engn, Ctr Appl Biomech, Dept Biomed Engn, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Abu Osman, Noor Azuan] Univ Malaysia Terengganu, Chancellery, Kuala Terengganu, Malaysia; [Mokhtar, Abdul Halim] Univ Malaya, Fac Med, Sports Med Unit, Deans Off, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Arifin, Nooranida; Usman, Juliana] Univ Malaya, Fac Engn, Dept Biomed Engn, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Shasmin, Hanie Nadia] Univ Malaya, Fac Engn, Ctr Appl Biomech, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Abu Osman, Noor Azuan] Univ Malaya, Fac Engn, Ctr Appl Biomech, Dept Biomed Engn, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518739200001	26	Article; Article		
J	Busuttil, Nicholas A.; Reid, Machar; Connolly, Molly; Dascombe, Ben J.; Middleton, Kane J.								A kinematic analysis of the upper limb during the topspin double-handed backhand stroke in tennis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	9			1046	1064		10.1080/14763141.2020.1726994			OCT 21 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to compare double-handed backhand kinematics of the non-dominant wrist of tennis players using either an eastern or continental grip position with the non-dominant hand. Trajectory data were captured using sixty reflective markers on sixteen sub-elite right-handed tennis players using a 12-camera VICON motion capture system (250 Hz). Participants executed double-handed backhands using two non-dominant grip positions (Eastern [E] and Continental [C]), aiming for two crosscourt zones (Deep [D] and Short [S]), totalling to four conditions (ED, CD, ES and CS). Three successful attempts from each condition were selected for analysis. The eastern grip demonstrated faster horizontal racket head velocity compared to the continental grip. However, no differences were observed in accuracy or spin rate between grips (p > 0.05). In the non-dominant upper limb, elbow flexion was smaller in the continental condition throughout the swing, whilst wrist extension and ulnar deviation was larger. Collectively, these data suggest that the continental grip may place the wrist in a position vulnerable to overuse injury. Future research into the kinetics of the double-handed backhand would help better understand the onset of ulnar-side wrist pain in tennis.		[Busuttil, Nicholas A.; Middleton, Kane J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Reid, Machar; Connolly, Molly] Tennis Australia, Game Insight Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Connolly, Molly] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Dascombe, Ben J.] Univ Newcastle, Appl Sport Sci & Exercise Testing Lab, Sch Life & Environm Sci, Ourimbah, Australia; [Middleton, Kane J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								23							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518738400001	48	Article; Article		
J	Cisyk, Jeffrey								Impacts of Performance-Enhancing Drug Suspensions on the Demand for Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	4			391	419	1527002520906529	10.1177/1527002520906529			MAY 2020	2020	In 2005, Major League Baseball (MLB) introduced a new policy regarding the use of performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs) wherein the league would not only suspend but also publicly name any player who tested positive for banned PEDs. Using the estimated television audience size of MLB games from 2006 to 2012, these PED suspension announcements provide a unique natural experiment to test how consumers react to news of PED use. This study finds that PED announcements have two major impacts on the demand for baseball. First, there is on average an immediate 9.3% reduction in the television audience of the PED player's team. Second, the magnitude of the effect gradually decreases over time yet remains negative and significant for a period of 37 days or approximately 33 game-broadcasts. This is the first study to link PED use to an adverse reaction by consumers in a systematic way using television audience while controlling for the change in team quality caused by removing the suspended player from the team.		[Cisyk, Jeffrey] Univ Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Cisyk, Jeffrey] Charles River Associates Inc, Competit & Antitrust Dept, Chicago, IL USA; [Cisyk, Jeffrey] Charles River Associates Inc, One South Wacker Dr,34th Floor, Chicago, IL 60606 USA								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000523811700001	21	Article; Article		
J	Schwenzfeier, Aaron; Rhoades, Jesse Lee; Fitzgerald, John; Whitehead, James; Short, Martin								Increased sprint performance with false step in collegiate athletes trained to forward step								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	8			958	965		10.1080/14763141.2020.1713205			SEP 14 2022	2022	The ability to achieve rapid acceleration is a crucial asset for athletes. An emergent tactic to achieve this advantage has been the performance of a backward step when beginning a sprinting action. This action has even gained the moniker 'false step', implying its lack of utility. Thus, a significant debate has developed among coaches regarding the value of this phenomenon. This study examined the false step through a comparison with a forward step condition, where participants were only allowed to step forward to initiate a sprint. Comparisons were made between velocity products as well as mechanical antecedents during the first milliseconds of sprint initiation. Participants were 30 healthy college-aged student-athletes, who were asked to perform three false step and forward step sprint trials. Timing gates and 3D modelling were used to examine velocities and mechanical variables during these trials. Overall, results demonstrated that the false step was significantly (p < 0.001) faster (0.23s; 9.44%) over a ten-metre sprint. Additionally, angular variables of the ankles during sprint initiation were found to be significantly different between false and forward step conditions. Findings suggest that the false step may be beneficial for athletes and is an advantageous technique for achieving a rapid change in velocity.		[Schwenzfeier, Aaron; Rhoades, Jesse Lee; Fitzgerald, John; Whitehead, James; Short, Martin] Univ North Dakota, Dept Educ Hlth & Behav Studies, Grand Forks, ND 58201 USA; [Rhoades, Jesse Lee] Univ North Dakota, Dept Educ Hlth & Behav Studies, Grand Forks, ND 58201 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000521122700001	15	Article; Article		
J	Wight, Jeff T.; Garman, Jordon E. J.; Hooper, David R.; Robertson, Christopher T.; Ferber, Reed; Boling, Michelle C.								Distance running stride-to-stride variability for sagittal plane joint angles								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	8			966	980		10.1080/14763141.2020.1713207			SEP 14 2022	2022	Recent research indicates that distance running stride-to-stride variability (SSV) is related to performance and injury. Previous studies have primarily focused on stride characteristics (stride length and time). We assessed SSV for sagittal plane joint angles with the primary purpose of testing for significant differences among the lower body joints. The secondary purpose was to determine if strong correlations exist among joint SSV measures. Thirty recreational adult runners participated in the study (8 females, 22 males, 39 +/- 10 years; 53.1 +/- 25.7 km/week). A 6-camera motion capture system (200 Hz) collected kinematic data during treadmill running at a preferred pace. A 2 by 3 repeated measures factorial ANOVA (phase-stance, swing; joint-hip, knee, ankle) was run (p = 0.05). There was a significant interaction effect (p < 0.001) and post hoc analysis revealed knee swing to be the most variable condition by far. For all three joints, there were strong correlations between stance and swing SSV (r = 0.80 to r = 0.88) and correlations among the joints were moderate to strong (r = 0.55 to 0.86). This study helps to better understand the joints/phases that contribute most to variability in the overall stride. Also, the strong correlations suggest that runners appear to have an overall SSV pattern that is similar across joints/phases.		[Wight, Jeff T.; Garman, Jordon E. J.; Hooper, David R.; Robertson, Christopher T.] Jacksonville Univ, Dept Kinesiol Sci, Jacksonville, FL 32211 USA; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Boling, Michelle C.] Univ North Florida, Dept Clin & Appl Movement Sci, Jacksonville, FL USA; [Wight, Jeff T.] Jacksonville Univ, Dept Kinesiol Sci, Jacksonville, FL 32211 USA								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518358600001	42	Article; Article		
J	Kipp, Kristof								Relative importance of lower extremity net joint moments in relation to bar velocity and acceleration in weightlifting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	9			1008	1020		10.1080/14763141.2020.1718196			OCT 21 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to investigate the relative importance of net joint moments (NJM) in relation to bar kinematics during the clean. Ground reaction force and 3-D motion data were recorded as seven weightlifters performed cleans at 85% of their competition maximum, and were used to calculate hip, knee, and ankle NJM. Vertical bar kinematics were also calculated. NJM were used as inputs to a three-layer feedforward artificial neural network (ANN), which was trained to predict bar kinematics. Subject-specific ANN with 15 hidden neurons could effectively model the association between NJM and bar kinematics for each individual weightlifter (r: 0.965 +/- 0.031; MSE: 0.169 +/- 0.152). The relative importance (%) of hip, knee, and ankle NJM to bar velocity were 23%, 31%, and 46%, respectively, whereas the relative importance of hip, knee, and ankle NJM to bar acceleration were 23%, 39%, and 38%, respectively. Non-parametric statistics indicated that the ankle NJM exhibited the greatest relative importance in relation to bar velocity, whereas the knee and ankle NJM showed the greatest relative importance in relation to bar acceleration. These results indicate that the NJM produced at the knee and ankle joint are of great importance in contributing to bar kinematics during weightlifting.		[Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Coll Hlth Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Coll Hlth Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518359500001	31	Article; Article		
J	Strutzenberger, Gerda; Edmunds, Rob; Nokes, Len D. M.; Mitchell, Ian D.; Mellalieu, Stephen D.; Irwin, Gareth								Player-surface interactions: perception in elite soccer and rugby players on artificial and natural turf								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	9			1021	1031		10.1080/14763141.2020.1720279			OCT 21 2022	2022	Artificial turf (AT) is common at all levels of soccer and rugby. Employing an interdisciplinary design, this study aimed to examine the extent to which the negative attitude commonly expressed by players concerning AT is based on the difference in technique between AT and natural turf (NT), or due to pre-existing biases. Thirty professional soccer and rugby players performed a defined set of movements with masked and normal perception conditions on NT and AT. Two-dimensional kinematic analysis (100 Hz) of characteristics in parallel to a psychological assessment of the impact of cognitive bias for a playing surface was assessed. No significant interaction effects between the level of perception and surface type were found. For AT, contact time (CT) was shorter across conditions, while for NT rugby players had longer CT during acceleration/deceleration phases and shorter flight times. Pre-existing negative bias against AT was found during the normal perception trials in the technology acceptance model (Usefulness and Ease of Use) and the general preference questions on how much the athlete would like to play a game on it. The results suggest that opinion was not driven by surface characteristics, but by a cognitive bias, players brought with them to the pitch.		[Strutzenberger, Gerda] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport Sci & Kinesiol USI, Salzburg, Austria; [Strutzenberger, Gerda; Edmunds, Rob; Mellalieu, Stephen D.; Irwin, Gareth] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Nokes, Len D. M.] Cardiff Univ, Sch Engn, Cardiff, Wales; [Mitchell, Ian D.] Football Assoc, People & Team Dev, Burton Upon Trent, England; [Irwin, Gareth] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518358100001	28	Article; Article		
J	Otte, Fabian W.; Millar, Sarah-Kate; Klatt, Stefanie								Ready to perform? A qualitative-analytic investigation into professional football goalkeepers' match warm-ups								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			324	336	1747954120909956	10.1177/1747954120909956			JUN 2020	2020	Match warm-ups in association football represent well-respected practice in order to prepare and optimise performance. While the structure of warm-ups is commonly studied from a physiological perspective, the skill and performance training approaches influencing warm-ups prior to major professional football competition appear to be particularly underexplored. Using the largely under-researched context of the football goalkeeper, the aim of this multi-method research design was to investigate two overarching research questions: (1) how are professional football goalkeeper match warm-ups structured? and (2) why does current coaching practice of expert goalkeeper coaches support this microstructure? Eleven systematic observations investigated the microstructure and training approaches applied to top-level professional football goalkeeper match warm-ups and seven semi-structured interviews with expert goalkeeper coaches further explored current coaching practice in this specific context. Results indicate that professional football goalkeeper warm-up structures include similar microstructures that progress in complexity and contain both simple 'technical' and more match-representative 'applied skills' exercises. Underlying reasons for goalkeeper coaches adhering to the observed warm-up structures are based on experts' understanding of applying an athlete-centred coaching approach. Hereof, goalkeeper coaches stated warm-up routines to be individualised towards goalkeeper's needs and focused on performance stability in order to make goalkeepers feel 'match-ready' and confident.		[Otte, Fabian W.; Klatt, Stefanie] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Cognit & Team Racket Sport Res, Cologne, Germany; [Millar, Sarah-Kate] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Otte, Fabian W.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Cognit & Team Racket Sport Res, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000523176500001	63	Article; Article		
J	Wyatt, Hannah E.; Gittoes, Marianne J. R.; Irwin, Gareth								Sport-specific musculoskeletal growth and postural control in female artistic gymnasts: a 12 month cohort study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	2			258	270		10.1080/14763141.2018.1469662			MAR 3 2020	2020	Female gymnasts have been evidenced to experience sport-specific growth, of which broad shoulders and narrow hips are common characteristics. In addition to being a central component of handstand performance, postural control mechanisms, including whole-body and lumbo-pelvic stability, have been identified as risk factors for overuse spinal pathology. The study aimed to develop a fundamental understanding of musculoskeletal growth and postural control responses of female artistic gymnasts in order to extend longitudinal insights into overuse spinal pathology risk. Whole-body anthropometric measures were collected for 12 competitive female gymnasts (age at recruitment: nine to 15 years) at three time points across a 12 month period. Musculoskeletal growth was partially defined as the rate of bicristal-to-biacromial breadth ratio development, and informed shoulder- and pelvis-dominant growth sub-groups. Kinematic and kinetic indicators of postural control were determined for a total of 700 handstand trials. The shoulder-dominant (gymnastics-specific) growth group was found to have significantly greater biomechanical risk for general stability (p < 0.001) than the pelvis-dominant group. Significantly greater lumbo-pelvic risk was demonstrated for the pelvis-dominant group (p < 0.001). Extended idiosyncratic examination of proportional sport-specific growth measures alongside multi-faceted risk monitoring was advocated for the effective development of future overuse pathology prevention protocols.		[Wyatt, Hannah E.; Gittoes, Marianne J. R.; Irwin, Gareth] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Cardiff, Wales; [Wyatt, Hannah E.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Cardiff, Wales								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512198300011	31	Article; Article		
J	Wilkau, Hans C. von Lieres Und; Irwin, Gareth; Bezodis, Neil E.; Simpson, Scott; Bezodis, Ian N.								Phase analysis in maximal sprinting: an investigation of step-to-step technical changes between the initial acceleration, transition and maximal velocity phases								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	2			141	156		10.1080/14763141.2018.1473479			MAR 3 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to investigate spatiotemporal and kinematic changes between the initial acceleration, transition and maximum velocity phases of a sprint. Sagittal plane kinematics from five experienced sprinters performing 50-m maximal sprints were collected using six HD-video cameras. Following manual digitising, spatiotemporal and kinematic variables at touchdown and toe-off were calculated. The start and end of the transition phase were identified using the step-to-step changes in centre of mass height and segment angles. Mean step-to-step changes of spatiotemporal and kinematic variables during each phase were calculated. Firstly, the study showed that if sufficient trials are available, step-to-step changes in shank and trunk angles might provide an appropriate measure to detect sprint phases in applied settings. However, given that changes in centre of mass height represent a more holistic measure, this was used to sub-divide the sprints into separate phases. Secondly, during the initial acceleration phase large step-to-step changes in touchdown kinematics were observed compared to the transition phase. At toe-off, step-to-step kinematic changes were consistent across the initial acceleration and transition phases before plateauing during the maximal velocity phase. These results provide coaches and practitioners with valuable insights into key differences between phases in maximal sprinting.		[Wilkau, Hans C. von Lieres Und; Irwin, Gareth; Bezodis, Ian N.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Bezodis, Neil E.] Swansea Univ, Appl Sports Technol Exercise & Med Res Ctr, Swansea, W Glam, Wales; [Simpson, Scott] Welsh Athlet, Cardiff, Wales; [Wilkau, Hans C. von Lieres Und] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								43							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512198300001	39	Article; Article		
J	Brindle, Richard A.; Milner, Clare E.								The hip control test is a valid and reliable measure of hip neuromuscular control								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	2			235	244		10.1080/14763141.2018.1466907			MAR 3 2020	2020	Insufficient hip neuromuscular control may contribute to non-contact sport injuries. However, the current evaluative test of hip neuromuscular control, the single-leg squat, requires hip abductor muscle strength to complete. The purpose of this study was to develop the hip control test (HCT) and determine the test's reliability and construct validity. Nineteen healthy adults visited the laboratory twice. The HCT is a 10-s test of reciprocal toe-tapping accuracy. Both automated and manual HCT ratings were recorded simultaneously during each visit. Additionally, eccentric hip abductor torque was measured. HCT reliability was assessed with intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC). Agreement between automated and manual ratings was determined with Bland-Altman plots. Construct validity was established if HCT performance significantly decreased with a secondary cognitive task (p < 0.05). Bivariate regression determined the relationship between HCT performance and eccentric hip abductor torque. Automated and manual HCT ratings both had moderate reliability (ICC = 0.72) and yielded similar results (limits of agreement = -1 to 2 taps). The HCT had construct validity (p = 0.001), and no correlation with hip abductor muscle strength (r = 0.213). Thus, the HCT is a reliable and valid test. The HCT is simple to administer and measures hip neuromuscular control separately from strength.		[Brindle, Richard A.; Milner, Clare E.] Drexel Univ, Coll Nursing & Hlth Profess, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Brindle, Richard A.] Drexel Univ, Coll Nursing & Hlth Profess, Dept Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512198300009	28	Article; Article		
J	Barker, Leland; Burnstein, Bryan; Mercer, John								Acceleration profile of an acrobatic act during training and shows using wearable technology								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	2			201	211		10.1080/14763141.2018.1460394			MAR 3 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to describe the mechanical characteristics of a trampoline circus act and its individual tracks performed in training and shows using a tri-axial accelerometer. A track is an artist's specific role within a choreographed act. Seven male acrobats performed their trampoline act during training and shows while wearing a triaxial accelerometer and reported ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) after each trial. Average acceleration (AVG), root mean square (RMS), root mean to the fourth (RM4), time spent in specific acceleration ranges and RPE were measured/recorded from training and show acts. Paired t-tests compared dependent variables between training and show. Acceleration AVG, RMS and RM4 were significantly higher (p < 0.05) in training than show. RPE was significantly higher (p < 0.05) in show than training. No significant differences existed in time spent in any of the acceleration ranges between training and show. GPS devices have been used to manage workloads in field sports but are inoperable in theatres. But, inertial measurements may be an effective alternative to describe mechanical demands in theatre or arena environments. Wearable technology may be useful to coaches to improve understanding of track demands to manage artist workloads.		[Barker, Leland; Mercer, John] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Barker, Leland; Burnstein, Bryan] Cirque Du Soleil, Coaching & Performance Dept, Las Vegas, NV 89109 USA; [Barker, Leland] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Barker, Leland] Cirque Du Soleil, Coaching & Performance Dept, Las Vegas, NV 89109 USA								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512198300006	17	Article; Article		
J	Bezodis, Ian N.; Cowburn, James; Brazil, Adam; Richardson, Rhian; Wilson, Cassie; Exell, Timothy A.; Irwin, Gareth								A biomechanical comparison of initial sprint acceleration performance and technique in an elite athlete with cerebral palsy and able-bodied sprinters								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	2			189	200		10.1080/14763141.2018.1459819			MAR 3 2020	2020	Cerebral palsy is known to generally limit range of motion and force producing capability during movement. It also limits sprint performance, but the exact mechanisms underpinning this are not well known. One elite male T36 multiple-Paralympic sprint medallist (T36) and 16 well-trained able-bodied (AB) sprinters each performed 5-6 maximal sprints from starting blocks. Whole-body kinematics (250 Hz) in the block phase and first two steps, and synchronised external forces (1,000 Hz) in the first stance phase after block exit were combined to quantify lower limb joint kinetics. Sprint performance (normalised average horizontal external power in the first stance after block exit) was lower in T36 compared to AB. T36 had lower extensor range of motion and peak extensor angular velocity at all lower limb joints in the first stance after block exit. Positive work produced at the knee and hip joints in the first stance was lower in T36 than AB, and the ratio of positive:negative ankle work produced was lower in T36 than AB. These novel results directly demonstrate the manner in which cerebral palsy limits performance in a competition-specific sprint acceleration movement, thereby improving understanding of the factors that may limit performance in elite sprinters with cerebral palsy.		[Bezodis, Ian N.; Brazil, Adam; Irwin, Gareth] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Cowburn, James; Wilson, Cassie] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Richardson, Rhian] Univ Bristol, Fac Hlth Sci, Bristol Med Sch, Bristol, Avon, England; [Exell, Timothy A.] Univ Portsmouth, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Portsmouth, Hants, England; [Bezodis, Ian N.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512198300005	38	Article; Article		
J	Lake, Jason P.; Mundy, Peter D.; Comfort, Paul; Suchomel, Timothy J.								Do the peak and mean force methods of assessing vertical jump force asymmetry agree?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	2			227	234		10.1080/14763141.2018.1465116			MAR 3 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to assess agreement between peak and mean force methods of quantifying force asymmetry during the countermovement jump (CMJ). Forty-five men performed four CMJ with each foot on one of two force plates recording at 1,000 Hz. Peak and mean were obtained from both sides during the braking and propulsion phases. The dominant side was obtained for the braking and propulsion phase as the side with the largest peak or mean force and agreement was assessed using percentage agreement and the kappa coefficient. Braking phase peak and mean force methods demonstrated a percentage agreement of 84% and a kappa value of 0.67 (95% confidence limits: 0.45-0.90), indicating substantial agreement. Propulsion phase peak and mean force methods demonstrated a percentage agreement of 87% and a kappa value of 0.72 (95% confidence limits: 0.51-0.93), indicating substantial agreement. While agreement was substantial, side-to-side differences were not reflected equally when peak and mean force methods of assessing CMJ asymmetry were used. These methods should not be used interchangeably, but rather a combined approach should be used where practitioners consider both peak and mean force to obtain the fullest picture of athlete asymmetry.		[Lake, Jason P.] Univ Chichester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Chichester, England; [Mundy, Peter D.] Coventry Univ, Dept Appl Sci & Hlth, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Lancs, England; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [Lake, Jason P.] Univ Chichester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Chichester, England								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512198300008	29	Article; Article		
J	Pollard, Christine D.; Norcross, Marc F.; Johnson, Sam T.; Stone, Amanda E.; Chang, Eunwook; Hoffman, Mark A.								A biomechanical comparison of dominant and non-dominant limbs during a side-step cutting task								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	2			271	279		10.1080/14763141.2018.1461236			MAR 3 2020	2020	Numerous studies have investigated anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury risk by examining gender differences in knee and hip biomechanics during a side-step cutting manoeuvre since it is known that ACL injury often occurs during such a task. Recent investigations have also examined lower extremity (LE) biomechanics during side-step cutting in individuals following ACL reconstruction (ACLR). Common research practice is to compare knee and hip biomechanics of the dominant limb between groups but this can add considerable complexity for clinicians and researchers. At this time, it is not known if there is a difference in LE biomechanics between the dominant and non-dominant limb during side-step cutting. Three-dimensional kinematics and kinetics were collected while 31 healthy participants performed five, side-step cutting manoeuvres with the dominant and non-dominant limbs. Knee and hip variables examined are those commonly investigated in ACL injury literature. There were no differences between limbs in all but one variable (knee internal rotation). These results demonstrate that healthy individuals exhibit little side-to-side differences in certain LE biomechanics when performing a side-step cutting manoeuvre. These findings can be utilised by clinicians when conducting dynamic evaluations of their ACLR patients and when developing injury prevention and rehabilitation programmes.		[Pollard, Christine D.] Oregon State Univ Cascades, Program Kinesiol, Bend, OR 97702 USA; [Norcross, Marc F.; Johnson, Sam T.; Chang, Eunwook; Hoffman, Mark A.] Oregon State Univ, Sch Biol & Populat Hlth Sci, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Stone, Amanda E.] Univ Florida, Dept Appl Physiol & Kinesiol, Gainesville, FL USA; [Pollard, Christine D.] Oregon State Univ Cascades, Program Kinesiol, Bend, OR 97702 USA								27							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512198300012	23	Article; Article		
J	Yamada, Masahiro; Raisbeck, Louisa D.; Porter, Jared M.								The Effects of Using Imagery to Elicit an External Focus of Attention								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			559	565		10.1080/02701367.2020.1733455			JUL 3 2021	2021	Background: An external focus of attention has been shown to be superior to adopting an internal focus of attention in a variety of motor skills. Purpose: To examine the efficacy of directing attention externally toward an imagined object when performing the standing long jump. This form of practice was compared to a group of participants that practiced the same motor skill while directing their attention toward an object that was physically present in the practice environment. Method: All participants performed a series of standing long-jumps on a rubber mat. Participants were randomly assigned to either an external focus condition where they were instructed to jump as close as possible to a cone that was directly in front of them. Or they were assigned to an imagery condition in which they were instructed to jump toward an imagined cone. Following acquisition trials, a 24-hr retention and transfer test was completed by all participants. Results: Significant improvement was demonstrated by both groups during acquisition, retention and transfer phases compared to the baseline measure. However, no significant differences were observed between the two experimental conditions. Conclusion: The findings of this experiment demonstrate that attention directed externally toward a physical object and an imagined object has a similar effect.		[Yamada, Masahiro; Raisbeck, Louisa D.] Univ N Carolina, Greensboro, NC USA; [Porter, Jared M.] Univ Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Yamada, Masahiro] Univ N Carolina, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Dept Kinesiol, 1408 Walker Ave,247 Coleman Bldg, Greensboro, NC 27402 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518824200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Canossa, Sofia; Arturo Abraldes, Jose; Estriga, Luisa; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Garganta, Julio								Water Polo Shooting Performance: Differences Between World Championship Winning, Drawing and Losing Teams								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			203	214		10.2478/hukin-2019-0107			MAR 2020	2020	Shooting performance of globally ranked winning, drawing and losing water polo teams was compared, and technical and tactical success indicators were identified. In total, 886 shots from a world championship final round were videotaped and teams were clustered for a performance evaluation (considering differences between game outcomes). Shooting speeds were assessed by a radar, with higher values observed at further distances from the goal than in the central area close to the goal (p <= 0.00, ES: 2.54). Shots tended to be more frequent from the central corridor, with <= 50% and >75% relative shot efficacy attained from field areas 3 and 6; winning teams obtained better results. Furthermore, winners had greater success than losers when shooting from field area 2 (p <= 0.04, ES: 1.13) and towards the goal zone 2 (p < 0.03, ES: 1.10). They also attained better efficacy regarding shots towards goal zone 1, had better efficacy on the part of centre forwards (p <= 0.05, ES: 0.85-1.27), and were more effective regarding shots without a frontal defensive block. In addition, contingency analysis highlighted shots performed from field area 6, without a defensive block, toward the bottom left goal corner, and through man-up play as success indicators (all for p <= 0.005). We concluded that world-level winning teams homogeneously distributed their shot opportunities at the second offensive line with balanced efficacy, creating variability and uncertainty in their opponents' defensive action. Elite level players must be capable of interpreting game situations with intelligence and proper decision making. This information may be useful for improving teams performance.		[Canossa, Sofia; Arturo Abraldes, Jose; Estriga, Luisa; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Garganta, Julio] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Arturo Abraldes, Jose] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Rua Placido Costa 91, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700019	32	Article; Article		
J	Bradley, Edward J.; Board, Lisa; Hogg, Bob; Archer, David T.								Quantification of Movement Characteristics in Women's English Premier Elite Domestic Rugby Union								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			185	194		10.2478/hukin-2019-0104			MAR 2020	2020	This study aims were to determine the positional physical requirements of English domestic women's rugby union match-play. Global positioning system data (Catapult Minimax S4) were collected at 10 Hz of 129 competitive player games from the Tyrrells Premierl5 league. Players were classified according to broad (Forwards, Backs) and specific positions (front-, second-, back-row, scrum-half inside-, and outside-backs). Total distances, maximum speed, and player loads were calculated. Mean total distance was 4982 m and was similar between the Forwards and Backs, with second-row players covering the most (5297 m) and outside-backs the least (4701 m). Inside- and outside-backs covered a significantly greater distance at high speed running (134 m; 178 m) and sprinting (74 m; 92 m) speeds, respectively, whereas the second- and back-row covered greater distances jogging (1966 m; 1976 m) and the front-row spent the greatest overall distance walking (2613 m). Outside-backs reached greater maximum speed than all other positions (24.9 km.h-1). The mean player load was highest in the back-row (562 AU) and second-row (555 AU) and these were higher than the outside-backs (476 AU). These findings indicate that the demands placed on female rugby players are position specific and differ from male players. Additionally, the data are the first obtained from the 10 Hz GPS and from within English domestic women's rugby, thus adding to the overall limited data available on women's rugby union.		[Bradley, Edward J.; Board, Lisa; Hogg, Bob; Archer, David T.] Univ Sunderland, Dept Sport & Exercise, Sunderland, England; [Bradley, Edward J.] DMP Sharks WRFC, Darlington, Durham, England; [Bradley, Edward J.] Univ Sunderland, Fac Hlth Sci & Wellbeing, Dept Sport & Exercise, Sunderland SR1 3SD, England								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700017	25	Article; Article		
J	Yanagisawa, Osamu; Fukutani, Atsuki								Muscle Recruitment Pattern of The Hamstring Muscles in Hip Extension and Knee Flexion Exercises								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			51	59		10.2478/hukin-2019-0124			MAR 2020	2020	We aimed to compare dynamic exercise performance between hip extension exercises with different knee angles and between knee flexion exercises with different hip angles, and to investigate the recruitment pattern of the hamstrings in each exercise. Seven men performed 4 isokinetic exercises (3 maximal concentric contractions at 30 degrees/s (peak torque) and 30 maximal concentric contractions at 180 degrees/s (total work)): hip extension with the knee fully extended (HEke) and with the knee flexed at 90 degrees (HEkf) and knee flexion with the hip fully extended (KFhe) and with the hip flexed at 90 degrees (KFhf). The recruitment pattern of the hamstrings was evaluated in each exercise using magnetic resonance imaging (T2 calculation). The HEke condition showed significantly greater peak torque than the HEkf condition (p < 0.05). The KFhf condition had significantly greater peak torque and total work values than the KFhe condition (p < 0.05). Although the biceps femoris long head, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus had significantly increased post-exercise T2 values in the HEke (p < 0.05), KFhe, and KFhf conditions (p < 0.01), the T2 increase values were significantly greater under the KFhf than the HEke condition (p < 0.05). The semitendinosus showed a significantly greater T2 increase value than other muscles under both KFhe and KFhf conditions (p < 0.05). Performance of hip extension and knee flexion exercises increases when the hamstring muscles are in a lengthened condition. The hamstring muscles (particularly the semitendinosus) are more involved in knee flexion than in hip extension.		[Yanagisawa, Osamu] Jobu Univ, Fac Business Informat Sci, 634-1 Toyazuka Machi, Isesaki, Gunma 3728588, Japan; [Fukutani, Atsuki] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, 1-1-1 Noji Higashi, Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan; [Yanagisawa, Osamu] Jobu Univ, Fac Business Informat Sci, 634-1 Toyazuka Machi, Isesaki, Gunma 3728588, Japan								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700005	26	Article; Article		
J	Rago, Vincenzo; Brito, Joao; Figueiredo, Pedro; Krustrup, Peter; Rebelo, Antonio								Application of Individualized Speed Zones to Quantify External Training Load in Professional Soccer								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			279	289		10.2478/hukin-2019-0113			MAR 2020	2020	This study aimed to examine the interchangeability of two external training load (ETL) monitoring methods: arbitrary vs. individualized speed zones. Thirteen male outfield players from a professional soccer team were monitored during training sessions using 10-Hz GPS units over an 8-week competitive period (n = 302 observations). Low-speed activities (LSA), moderate-speed running (MSR), high-speed running (HSR) and sprinting were defined using arbitrary speed zones as <14.4, 14.4-19.8, 19.8-25.1 and >= 25.2 km.h-1, and using individualized speed zones based on a combination of maximal aerobic speed (MAS, derived from the Yo-yo Intermittent recovery test level 1), maximal sprinting speed (MSS, derived from the maximal speed reached during training) and anaerobic speed reserve (ASR) as <80% MAS, 80-100% MAS, 100% MAS or 29% ASR and >= 30% ASR. Distance covered in both arbitrary and individualized methods was almost certainly correlated in all speed zones (p < 0.01; r = 0.67-0.78). However, significant differences between methods were observed in all speed zones (p < 0.01). LSA was almost certainly higher when using the arbitrary method than when using the individualized method (p < 0.01; ES = 5.47 [5.18; 5.76], respectively). Conversely, MSR, HSR and sprinting speed were higher in the individualized method than in the arbitrary method (p < 0.01; ES = 5.10 [4.82; 5.37], 0.86 [0.72; 1.00] and 1.22 [1.08; 1.37], respectively). Arbitrary and individualized methods for ETL quantification based on speed zones showed similar sensitivity in depicting player locomotor demands. However, since these methods significantly differ at absolute level (based on measurement bias), arbitrary and individualized speed zones should not be used interchangeably.		[Rago, Vincenzo; Rebelo, Antonio] Univ Porto, Fac Sports, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Rago, Vincenzo; Brito, Joao; Figueiredo, Pedro] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Lisbon, Portugal; [Figueiredo, Pedro] Univ Inst Maia, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Maia, Portugal; [Krustrup, Peter] Univ Southern Denmark, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, SDU Sport & Hlth Sci Cluster, Odense, Denmark; [Krustrup, Peter] Shangai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Rago, Vincenzo] Univ Porto, Fac Sports, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Rago, Vincenzo] Portuguese Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Lisbon, Portugal								40							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700026	30	Article; Article		
J	Paulauskas, Rutenis; Kamarauskas, Paulius; Nekriosius, Ricardas; Bigwood, Nicholas Malcolm								Physical and Physiological Response to Different Modes of Repeated Sprint Exercises in Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			91	99		10.2478/hukin-2019-0100			MAR 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to investigate changes in physical and physiological responses to different modes of repeated sprint exercise by measuring speed, total time (sum of sprints), fatigue index, heart rate, local oxygen saturation, total haemoglobin content, and blood lactate. The volume of the physical load (distance, work and rest ratio) was the same in both exercises, but load specifics were different. The first mode consisted of 10 x 30 m sprints (with one change of direction) interspersed with 30 s of passive recovery, while the second mode of 20 x 15 m shuttle sprints interspersed with 15 s of passive recovery. Both exercise modalities were repeated three times with a five-minute rest interval between bouts with 7 days of recovery between each testing condition. Twelve highly trained male basketball players volunteered to participate in this study. Our study showed that different modes of repeated sprint exercises elicited a different physical response and metabolic demand. Longer sprints with directional changes placed a higher demand on the anaerobic glycolytic system compared to straight and more frequent sprint exercises. However, players' fatigue was more noticeable in shorter and more frequent sprints. Heart rate responses and local use of O2 showed a similar activity of aerobic reactions through the different exercises. During the sprints, players' SmO2 fell to 40% and recovered to the level of about 80% during passive rest intervals without showing differences in both modalities. This suggests that both types of sprint exercises can similarly stimulate aerobic metabolism.		[Paulauskas, Rutenis] Vytautas Magnus Univ, Educ Acad, T Sevcenkos G 31, LT-03111 Vilnius, Lithuania; [Kamarauskas, Paulius; Nekriosius, Ricardas] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Fac Sport Biomed, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Bigwood, Nicholas Malcolm] Univ Edinburgh, Coll Med & Vet Med, Edinburgh Med Sch, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Paulauskas, Rutenis] Vytautas Magnus Univ, Educ Acad, T Sevcenkos G 31, LT-03111 Vilnius, Lithuania								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700009	30	Article; Article		
J	Bacik, Bogdan; Kurpas, Wioletta; Marszalek, Wojciech; Wodarski, Piotr; Sobota, Grzegorz; Starzynski, Michal; Gzik, Marek								Movement Variability During the Flight Phase in a Single Back Sideflip (Wildcat) in Snowboarding								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			29	37		10.2478/hukin-2019-0006			MAR 2020	2020	Understanding the structure and variability of motion is essential for sports technique development and an effective training design. Biomechanical analysis is particularly important in new disciplines with spatially complex motions, such as snowboarding. This study aimed to evaluate the level of variability of the kinematic variables in a single backside snowboard flip known as a "wildcat". Forty-six correct flips performed by 7 experienced athletes (age: 24.9 +/- 4.34 year; body mass: 71.6 +/- 12.87 kg; body height: 177.4 +/- 6.99 cm) were recorded using an optoelectronic VICON system in the controlled setting of an indoor freestyle park. Athletes were equipped with special boards with wheels and the geometry of the ramps corresponded to the actual on-snow conditions. The analysis revealed two distinct single flip strategies, which differed in the way the tuck position was sustained. For all the measured variables, the coefficient of variation was computed, which allowed to identify the athlete with the highest (average 45.3%) and lowest (average 20.5%) variability of kinematic variables. Moreover, it was shown that the lowest values of the coefficient of variation occurred at the end of the grouping phase (average 14%) and that among all the different variables, those related to the duration of motion were most unstable (average 63%, SD = 48.5%).		[Bacik, Bogdan; Kurpas, Wioletta; Marszalek, Wojciech; Sobota, Grzegorz; Starzynski, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Wodarski, Piotr; Gzik, Marek] Silesian Tech Univ, Fac Biomed Engn, Biomechatron Dept, Zabrze, Poland; [Bacik, Bogdan] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700003	24	Article; Article		
J	Kubayi, Alliance; Toriola, Abel								Match Performance Indicators that Discriminated Between Winning, Drawing and Losing Teams in the 2017 AFCON Soccer Championship								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			215	221		10.2478/hukin-2019-0108			MAR 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to examine match performance indicators that discriminated between winning, drawing and losing teams in the 2017 Total Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) soccer championship. Data were collected from 32 matches during the AFCON soccer tournament using the InStat (R) system. The studied variables included the number of goals scored, the time period in which a goal was scored and the impact of the first goal on the match outcome, as well as total shots, shots on goal, total passes, accurate passes, corners, ball possession, fouls, offsides as well as yellow and red cards. The results showed that goals scored (1.80 +/- 0.83), total shots (11.05 +/- 4.83), shots on target (4.70 +/- 2.62), fouls (18.60 +/- 5.19), offsides (2.35 +/- 1.76), yellow cards (1.55 +/- 1.10), and red cards (0.05 +/- 0.22) were discriminative performance indicators of winning teams. In contrast, losing teams yielded higher mean values in total passes (260.30 +/- 49.10), accurate passes (69.28 +/- 5.74), corners (5.10 +/- 2.95), and ball possession (51.20 +/- 5.52). In conclusion, these results have practical implications for coaches in planning and implementing team tactics for successful performance.		[Kubayi, Alliance; Toriola, Abel] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700020	25	Article; Article		
J	Wilk, Michal; Golas, Artur; Zmijewski, Piotr; Krzysztofik, Michal; Filip, Aleksandra; Del Coso, Juan; Tufano, James J.								The Effects of the Movement Tempo on the One-Repetition Maximum Bench Press Results								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			151	159		10.2478/hukin-2020-0001			MAR 2020	2020	Different tempos of movement can be used during resistance training, but programming them is often a trial-and-error practice, as changing the speed at which the exercise is performed does not always correspond with the tempo at which the 1-repetition-maximum occurred. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine the effect of different movement tempos during the bench press (BP) exercise on the one-repetition maximum (1RM) load. Ninety men (age = 25.8 +/- 5.3 years, body mass = 80.2 +/- 14.9 kg), with a minimum one year of resistance training experience took part in the study. Using a randomized crossover design, each participant completed the BP 1RM test with five different movement tempos: V/0/V/0, 2/0/V/0, 5/0/V/0, 8/0/V/0 and 10/0/V/0. Repeated measures ANOVA compared the differences between the 1RM at each tempo. The 1RM load was significantly greater during V/0/V/0 and 2/0/V/0 compared to 5/0/V/0, 8/0/V/0, and 10/0/V/0 (p < 0.01). Furthermore, the 1RM load was significantly greater during 5/0/V/0 compared to 8/0/V/0 and 10/0/V/0 (p < 0.01), but there were no differences between either V/0/V/0 and 2/0/V/0 (p = 0.92) or between 8/0/V/0 and 10/0/V/0 (p = 0.08). Therefore, different movement tempos used during training should be accompanied by their own tempo-specific 1RM testing, as slower eccentric phases significantly decrease maximal concentric performance. Furthermore, 1RM test procedures should include information about the movement tempo used during the test protocol. In addition, the standardization of the tempo should be taken into account in investigations that use the 1 RM test to assess the effects of any treatment on maximal muscle strength.		[Wilk, Michal; Golas, Artur; Krzysztofik, Michal; Filip, Aleksandra] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland; [Del Coso, Juan] Rey Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Fuenlabrada, Spain; [Tufano, James J.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Wilk, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland								70							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700014	21	Article; Article		
J	Trinidad, Alfonso; Veiga, Santiago; Navarro, Enrique; Lorenzo, Alberto								The Transition from Underwater to Surface Swimming During the Push-off Start in Competitive Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			61	67		10.2478/hukin-2019-0125			MAR 2020	2020	The objective of the present study was to analyze (based on gender and the style of swimming) the kinematic parameters of the transition phase between underwater swimming and surface swimming after the push-off start in competitive national swimmers. Seventy-four swimmers participating in the Spanish Swimming Championships were filmed and analyzed by DLT-2D photogrammetry during the start with the push-off in crawl, backstroke and butterfly styles. Between genders there were small differences in the distance and speed of transition. The male swimmers travelled greater distances (0.84 +/- 0.04 vs. 0.66 +/- 0.04 m, eta(2) = 0.05, F = 10.34, p < 0.001) and they were faster (1.59 +/- 0.03 vs. 1.38 +/- 0.03 m/s, eta(2) = 0.08, F = 19.54, p < 0.001) in the transition phase than female swimmers. Among styles there were greater differences in time (eta(2) = 0.47, F = 94.50, p < 0.001) and transition distance (eta(2) = 0.38, F = 67.08, p < 0.001), than in speed (eta(2) = 0.05, F = 5.63, p < 0.001). During the backstroke push-off swimmers spent more time (0.88 +/- 0.04 s) and distance (1.17 +/- 0.05 m), this being the slowest style (1.37 +/- 0.04 m/s). In butterfly, athletes used less time (0.26 +/- 0.03 s) and distance (0.39 +/- 0.05 m) whereas crawl was the fastest of all (1.57 +/- 0.04 m/s). These results allow the phase of transition from underwater to surface swimming to be characterized and to provide useful data for competitive swimmers and coaches to improve performance.		[Trinidad, Alfonso] Francisco de Vitoria Univ, Fac Educ & Humanidades, Pozuelo Alarcon Madrid, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago; Navarro, Enrique] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Salud & Rendimiento Humano, Madrid, Spain; [Lorenzo, Alberto] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Deportes, Madrid, Spain; [Trinidad, Alfonso] Francisco de Vitoria Univ UFV, Fac Educ & Humanities, Ctra M-515 Pozuelo Majadahonda Km 1,800, Madrid 28223, Spain								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700006	35	Article; Article		
J	Sobarzo Soto, Dany Alexis; Aedo-Munoz, Esteban; Jose Brito, Ciro; Camey, Suzi; Miarkao, Bianca								Making Decisions and Motor Actions with Technical Biomechanical Classifications in Male Judo Weight Categories								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			241	252		10.2478/hukin-2019-0110			MAR 2020	2020	The aim of the study was to compare motor action variables of judo combat phases and technical biomechanical assessment of the seven weight categories. The sample was composed of 638 bouts (176 of extra lightweight <66 kg, 289 of half lightweight 66 > 73 kg, 180 of lightweight 73 > 81 kg, 244 of half middleweight 81 > 90 kg, 174 of middleweight 81 > 90 kg, 151 of half heavyweight 90 > 100 kg and 142 of heavyweight >100 kg) during motor actions of approach, gripping, attack, defense and groundwork combat phases, verifying the interactions between them by Markov chains and comparisons by Kruskall-Wallis and Dunn post hoc tests (p <= .05). The results demonstrated that lighter weight categories showed higher approach phases than the heavyweight category, and the lightweight group demonstrated higher defensive action frequencies than the half lightweight category and heavyweight athletes. Heavyweight and middleweight categories demonstrated higher groundwork combat frequencies than lighter weights, and the heavyweight category showed higher pause frequencies than the lightweight category. Regarding the decision-making model, the main transitions presented by the Markov chains showed higher prevalence of the following combinations: gripping occurring before the lever and length attacks, lever attack followed by the length attack, and length attack occurring earlier than the groundwork phase.		[Sobarzo Soto, Dany Alexis] Univ Santo Tomas, Escuela Kinesiol, Santiago, Chile; [Aedo-Munoz, Esteban] Univ Santiago Chile, Biomech Lab, Chilean High Performance Ctr, Phys Act Sport & Hlth Sci Lab, Santiago, Chile; [Aedo-Munoz, Esteban] Univ Metropolitana Ciencias Educ, Phys Educ Dept, Santiago, Chile; [Jose Brito, Ciro; Miarkao, Bianca] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Phys Educ Dept, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Camey, Suzi] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Postgrad Program Epidemiol, Sch Med, Stat Dept,Math & Stat Inst, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Miarkao, Bianca] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Postgrad Program Phys Educ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Dept Fights, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Miarkao, Bianca] Fac Educ Fis & Desporto FAEFID, Jose Lourenco Kelmer St Martelos, BR-36036330 Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700023	35	Article; Article		
J	Rave, Guillaume; Zouhal, Hassane; Boullosa, Daniel; Doyle-Baker, Patricia K.; Saeidi, Ayoub; Ben Abderrahman, Abderraouf; Fortrat, Jacques-Olivier								Heart Rate Variability is Correlated with Perceived Physical Fitness in Elite Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			141	150		10.2478/hukin-2019-0103			MAR 2020	2020	Heart Rate Variability (HRV) has been typically used to monitor athletes' physical fitness readiness. The supine position maximizes parasympathetic tone, which is important for monitoring in continuous aerobic sports, however, this is not the case of team sports that rely on anaerobic intermittent bouts, thus increasing sympathetic activation and vagal withdrawal. We hypothesized that HRV during sympathetic activation and vagal withdrawal would be a useful marker to evaluate perceived physical fitness in team sports. HRV was measured in both supine and standing positions during the mornings of 4 match days in 14 professional players. The supine Root Mean Square of the Successive Differences (RMSSD), as well as spectral analysis indices were recorded. Perceived physical fitness was assessed after each match by means of a visual analogue scale (VAS). Supine RMSSD was moderately correlated with perceived physical fitness (rho = 0.416), however, larger correlations were observed for supine and standing spectral indices (rho > 0.5). Correlation between RMSSD and Total Power was very large, thus questioning the usual interpretation of RMSSD (rho > 0.7). Standing Spectral HRV analyses may be a useful method for evaluating perceived physical fitness in the context of team sports. RMSSD may reflect the overall variability of HR and not only the parasympathetic influence, as observed in the current study.		[Rave, Guillaume; Fortrat, Jacques-Olivier] Fac Med, Inserm 1083, CNRS 6214, F-49045 Angers, France; [Zouhal, Hassane] Univ Rennes, M2S Lab Mouvement Sport Sante, EA 1274, F-35000 Rennes, France; [Boullosa, Daniel] Univ Brasilia, Fac Hlth Sci, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Boullosa, Daniel] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Doyle-Baker, Patricia K.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Saeidi, Ayoub] Shahid Beheshti Univ, Fac Sports Sci & Hlth, Dept Biol Sci Sport, Tehran, Iran; [Ben Abderrahman, Abderraouf] Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Ksar Said, Tunisia; [Zouhal, Hassane] Univ Rennes 2, M2S Lab Mouvement Sport Sante, EA 1274, F-35000 Rennes, France								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700013	36	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Sang Ho; Pekas, Elizabeth J.; Lee, Seungyong; Headid, Ronald J., III; Park, Song-Young								The Impact of Aspirin Intake on Lactate Dehydrogenase, Arterial Stiffness, and Oxidative Stress During High-Intensity Exercise: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			101	113		10.2478/hukin-2019-0101			MAR 2020	2020	Aspirin is a common nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug used to reduce fever, pain, and inflammation. However, aspirin's anti-inflammatory properties may also prevent increased levels of blood lactate dehydrogenase, vascular arterial stiffness and oxidative stress induced by high-intensity exercise. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of 4 weeks of aspirin supplementation on lactate dehydrogenase activity, lactate, arterial stiffness, and antioxidant capacity during high-intensity exercise in Taekwondo athletes. Participants were randomly divided into two groups: aspirin supplementation (n = 10) and placebo-control (n = 10). Blood levels of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) enzyme activity and lactate were assessed to examine muscle damage and carotid-to-radial pulse wave velocity and the augmentation index were measured to examine arterial stiffness. Blood levels of superoxide dismutase, malondialdehyde, and glutathione peroxidase were assessed to determine antioxidant capacity and levels of oxidative stress. There were significant group x time interactions for enzyme activity of LDH (Delta-60 +/- 24.36 U/L) and carotid-to-radial pulse wave velocity (Delta-1.33 +/- 0.54 m/s), which significantly decreased (p < 0.05) following aspirin supplementation compared to placebo-control. Superoxide dismutase (Delta 359 +/- 110 U/gHb) and glutathione peroxidase (Delta 28.2 +/- 10.1 U/gHb) significantly decreased while malondialdehyde (Delta 3.0 +/- 0.1 mmol/mL) significantly increased (p < 0.05) in the placebo-control group compared to the supplementation group. However, there were no changes in lactate concentration levels or augmentation index. These results reveal that low-dose aspirin supplementation would be a useful supplementation therapy to prevent high-intensity exercise training-induced increases in oxidative damage, inflammation, skeletal muscle fatigue, and arterial stiffness in elite Taekwondo athletes.		[Lee, Sang Ho] Kosin Univ, Dept Taekwondo Mission, Busan, South Korea; [Pekas, Elizabeth J.; Headid, Ronald J., III; Park, Song-Young] Univ Nebraska, Sch Hlth & Kinesiol, Omaha, NE 68182 USA; [Lee, Seungyong] Johns Hopkins Univ, Sch Med, Dept Pathol, Baltimore, MD 21205 USA; [Park, Song-Young] Univ Nebraska, 6001 Dodge St, Omaha, NE 68182 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700010	57	Article; Article		
J	Wong, Tzu Lin; Huang, Chen Fu; Chen, Po Chieh								Effects of Lower Extremity Muscle Fatigue on Knee Loading During a Forward Drop Jump to a Vertical Jump in Female Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			5	13		10.2478/hukin-2019-0122			MAR 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to examine changes in the kinematic and kinetic parameters of female athletes performing a forward drop jump to a vertical jump under muscle fatigue condition. Twelve female college athletes performed a forward drop jump to a vertical jump with and without muscle fatigue conditions. A motion capture system and two AMTI force plates were used to synchronously collect kinematic and kinetic data. Inverse dynamics were implemented to calculate the participant's joint loading, joint moment, and energy absorption. A paired sample t-test was used to compare statistical differences between pre-fatigue and post-fatigue conditions (alpha = .05). The forward trunk lean angle at initial foot contact, as well as the knee range of motion, total negative work and energy absorption contribution of the knee joint during the landing phase were significantly decreased under post-fatigue condition. The increased peak vertical ground reaction force and peak tibial anterior shear forces were also found under post-fatigue condition. These results indicated that muscle fatigue caused participants to change their original landing posture into stiff landing posture and decrease the energy absorption ability, which increased the tibial anterior shear forces. Therefore, female athletes should appropriately increase the knee flexion angle under muscle fatigue condition to reduce the risk of anterior cruciate ligament injuries.		[Wong, Tzu Lin] Natl Taipei Univ Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Taipei, Taiwan; [Huang, Chen Fu; Chen, Po Chieh] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 88,Sec 4,TingJhou Rd, Taipei 11677, Taiwan; [Chen, Po Chieh] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 88,Sec 4,TingJhou Rd, Taipei 11677, Taiwan								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700001	34	Article; Article		
J	Morandi, Rodrigo F.; Pimenta, Eduardo M.; Andrade, Andre G. P.; Serpa, Tane K. F.; Penna, Eduardo M.; Costa, Charles O.; Mario, N. S. O. Junior; Garcia, Emerson S.								Preliminary Validation of Mirrored Scales for Monitoring Professional Soccer Training Sessions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			265	278		10.2478/hukin-2019-0112			MAR 2020	2020	We aimed to create a single subjective method to assess both internal training loads and subsequent fatigue. This new training-fatigue (dose-response) scale (TFS) was composed of two similar scales with the same properties, metrics and construction criteria. These two scales were designed to rate the perceived exertion (RPETFS) and perceived fatigue (RPFTFS) in professional soccer players. Twenty-two athletes participated to establish reliability, and 15 participated to establish validity. For reliability, the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and standard error of measurement (SEM) were used. For criterion validity, the Spearman's correlation coefficient and linear regression analyses were applied. Associations between RPETFS and RPFTFS were verified by a chi square test, and a further factorial exploratory analysis was conducted. RPETFS and RPFTFS were found to be reliable (ICC 0.74 and 0.77, SEM 0.30 and 0.30, respectively) and valid. RPETFS was best explained by the internal load of the Banister training impulse (p < 0.001), while RPFTFS was best explained by the internal load of the Stagno training impulse (p < 0.001). An association was found between the scales (RPETFS and RPFTFS) in which training duration had a more substantial impact on these subjective perceptions than did training intensity (p < 0.01). RPETFS and RPFTFS scales are reliable and valid for monitoring training sessions in Brazilian professional soccer players. The simultaneous oscillations of the RPETFS and RPFTFS scores can be used by staff members to better plan weekly training programs based on dose-response ratings. Finally, training duration must be carefully controlled because it has a greater impact than intensity on subjective perceptions.		[Morandi, Rodrigo F.; Pimenta, Eduardo M.; Andrade, Andre G. P.; Serpa, Tane K. F.; Penna, Eduardo M.; Garcia, Emerson S.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Penna, Eduardo M.] Fed Univ Para, Campus Univ Castanhal,Ave Univ S-N, BR-68746360 Castanhal, Para, Brazil; [Costa, Charles O.; Garcia, Emerson S.] Cruzeiro Esporte Clube, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Mario, N. S. O. Junior; Garcia, Emerson S.] Univ Fed Maranhao, Sao Luis, Maranhao, Brazil; [Penna, Eduardo M.] Fed Univ Para, Campus Univ Castanhal,Ave Univ S-N, BR-68746360 Castanhal, Para, Brazil								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700025	32	Article; Article		
J	Los Arcos, Asier; Aramendi, Jose F.; Emparanza, Jose, I; Castagna, Carlo; Javier, Yanci; Lezaun, Alejandro; Martinez-Santos, Raul								Assessing Change of Direction Ability in a Spanish Elite Soccer Academy								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				72	1			229	239		10.2478/hukin-2019-0109			MAR 2020	2020	The aims of the study were: a) to analyze the reproducibility of the Modified Agility Test (MAT) according to two types of displacement (i.e. constrained (MATtopJ vs. free IMATfree), b) to examine the explanatory capacity of anthropometric characteristics and neuromuscular performance on the ability to change the direction (CODA), c) to look into the practical consequences of the types of displacement from the perspective of an elite soccer academy. 118 male soccer players (age: 16 (13-25) years old) from the same elite Spanish soccer academy (L113 to senior) were tested twice on two versions of the MAT (MATtop and MATfree), with 48 hours between testing sessions. Moreover, they were tested on linear-sprint performance, over 5 m (S5m) and 15 m (S15m), and the vertical jump (VI) (countermovement jump with [ACMJ] and without an arm swing LCMJ]). The main findings were: a) the type of displacement did not affect the reliability of the CODA test; b) weight, 515m, ACMJ and CMJ variables explained close to 60% of CODA performance; c) MATtop (i.e. constrained displacement) and MATfree (i.e. free-displacement) CODA tests could show different profiles of development along the age groups; and d) the impact of the task's constraints was relatively higher in U16 and U17 groups. CODA seems to have a variable meaning depending on the characteristics of the test and the age of the participants.		[Los Arcos, Asier; Javier, Yanci; Martinez-Santos, Raul] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain; [Aramendi, Jose F.] Osasunkirol, Salud & Deporte, Hondarribia, Spain; [Emparanza, Jose, I] Hosp Univ Donostia, Clin Epidemiol Unit, Donostia San Sebastian, Spain; [Castagna, Carlo] Italian Football Federat FIGC, Tech Dept, Football Training & Biomech Lab, Florence, Italy; [Lezaun, Alejandro] Club Atlet Osasuna, Pamplona, Spain; [Los Arcos, Asier] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000523653700022	43	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio; Pelegrin, Antonia								Influence of Perceived Parental Education Styles on Hardy Personality in Sport								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			158	165					MAR 2020	2020	Hardy personality plays a key role in sport due to the positive outcomes that has shown in sport performance. Consequently, it is salient to know which parental educational style is more related to positive characteristics of personality such as hardiness. Therefore, the objective of this research was to study the differences in perceived parental education styles in adult athletes with high and low levels of hardy personality. The sample consisted of 502 athletes from Spain (153 were women and 349 were men) between 18 and 64 years old (M = 27.76; SD = 9.11). A series of self-report questionnaires were fulfilled: an ad hoc sociodemographic questionnaire, the "Multifactor Self-Assessment Test of Child Adjustment", the "Marathon-Hardy Personality Scale" and the Oviedo Scale of Infrequency Response. Firstly, sample was grouped in two groups. Secondly, the results of independent sample t-test showed higher levels of father protectionism and mother restriction in the low challenge scores group. Also, men educated that perceived to be educated by authoritarian parents reported lower commitment. Results also showed higher levels of care education close to mother protectionism, father restriction and mother restriction in the low hardy personality group. It was concluded that there are other variables that influence more on hardy personality in athletes apart from parents. Although challenge, hardy personality and commitment in men reported an influence by parental educational styles.		[Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Int Univ La Rioja UNIR, Fac Educ, Logrono, La Rioja, Spain; [Pelegrin, Antonia] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Dept Hlth Psychol, Alicante, Spain; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Calle Almansa 101, Madrid 28040, Spain								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900018	41	Article; Article		
J	Lim, Eui-hwan; Kim, Mo-eun; Kim, Si-hyun; Park, Kyue-nam								Effects of Posterior X Taping on Movement Quality and Knee Pain Intensity during Forward-Step-Down in Patients with Patellofemoral Pain Syndrome								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			224	230					MAR 2020	2020	Excessive tibiofemoral rotation in weight-bearing position may be associated with patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS). A previous literature suggested that "posterior X taping" method is effective for correcting the reduction of hip adduction and tibiofemoral rotation in weight bearing position. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of posterior X taping on the angles of hip adduction, tibiofemoral rotation, grades of the forward-step-down (FSD) performance test, and intensity of knee pain when descending stair in patients with PFPS. We recruited patients with PFPS. The knee pain intensity during FSD was measured using visual analogue scale system (100 mm) under both no-tape and tape conditions. A three-dimensional motion analysis system was used to assess the kinematics of lower limb joints during FSD. In addition, scoring system of FSD performance test was used to assess the movement deviation of the trunk and lower limb and one-leg balance. Participants with PFPS showed reduced pain intensity (p = 0.001) and improved scores on FSD performance test (p = 0.002) with posterior X taping compared to the no-tape condition during FSD. No significant alterations changes were noted in three dimensional angles of the hip, knee and ankle joints, especially hip adduction and tibiofemoral rotation between conditions. Posterior X taping decreases knee pain and improves the scores on FSD performance test for patients with PFPS.		[Lim, Eui-hwan; Kim, Mo-eun; Park, Kyue-nam] Jeonju Univ, Coll Med Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 1200 Hyoja Dong, Jeonju 560759, Jeollabuk Do, South Korea; [Kim, Si-hyun] Sangji Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Wonju, South Korea; [Park, Kyue-nam] Jeonju Univ, Coll Med Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 1200 Hyoja Dong, Jeonju 560759, Jeollabuk Do, South Korea								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900025	38	Article; Article		
J	Fruehauf, Anika; Zenzmaier, Julian; Kopp, Martin								Does Age Matter? A Qualitative Comparison of Motives and Aspects of Risk in Adolescent and Adult Freeriders								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			112	120					MAR 2020	2020	Recent research has shown multiple motives for high-risk sport participation derived from research on adult participants. The aim of this study was to provide insights into motives and risk-related aspects in adolescent high-risk sport participants and to compare those findings with adults performing the same activity. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 24 adolescent (14-20 years) freeriders (skiers/snowboarders who ski outside the protected areas of a ski resort) and 24 adult freeriders (26-41 years). A content analyses was done using MAXQDA software. Both cohorts reported the motives Challenge (adolescents: 92%, adults: 88%), Freedom/Pleasure (adolescents: 88%, adults: 75%), Friends (adolescents: 88%, adults: 79%) and Balance (adolescents: 63%, adults: 63%). However, the description of friends differed between adults and adolescents. Whereas adolescents mostly referred to a community and shared interests, adults described the importance of trust and the development of deep friendships through the activity more often. Nature was a major motive in adults (83%) but not in adolescents (29%). Most of the adults have already experienced a major accident or close call (n = 19; 79%), contrary to adolescents (n = 7; 29%). Adolescents learned about the risks in freeriding primarily through their families (n = 10) and the ski club (n = 9). Some adults reported to have realized the risks involved in freeriding after starting with the activity due to experienced negative outcomes. Both cohorts were largely motivated by the same motives. As the new generation of freeriders seems to receive more instructions about risk reduction, it might be interesting to see if this educational approach results into less accidents or close calls in this group.		[Fruehauf, Anika; Zenzmaier, Julian; Kopp, Martin] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Furstenweg 185, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria; [Fruehauf, Anika] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Furstenweg 185, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900013	63	Article; Article		
J	Cao, Ziwei; Xiao, Yi; Lu, Miaomiao; Ren, Xiaoling; Zhang, Pei								The Impact of Eye-closed and Weighted Multi-ball Training on the Improvement of the Stroke Effect of Adolescent Table Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			43	51					MAR 2020	2020	This paper investigated the impact of eye-closed and weighted training (EWMT) on the stroke effect of adolescent table tennis players. Forty-eight adolescent table tennis players were randomly selected from the China Table Tennis College and were divided into two groups as 1) the experimental group (EG, n = 24) in which they engaged in multi-ball exercise with eye-closed and weighted swing for 10 weeks, and 2) the control group (CG, n = 24) in which they received a normal training without eye-closed and weighted swing intervention. The stroke effect was assessed by three outcome measures: accuracy, stability, and ball speed. Results showed that 1) both the traditional training method and EWMT can improve the stroke effect of adolescent table tennis players. 2) In terms of accuracy, the number of stroke in the corner area was significantly different between EG and CG after the experiment (p = 0.022, p < 0.001, respectively). 3) In terms of stroke stability, there was a significant difference in the number of net ball strokes between EG and CG after the experiment (p = 0.014). 4) In terms of ball speed, there was no significant difference between EG and CG after the experiment (p = 0.871). 5) After EWMT, the stroke stability of backspin had more significant improvement than that of topspin. Thus, compared with the traditional training method, the EWMT method can improve the stroke effect of adolescent table tennis players in terms of accuracy and stability more significantly; the EWMT method can improve the stroke effect of backspin more significantly than that of topspin in terms of stability.		[Cao, Ziwei; Xiao, Yi; Lu, Miaomiao; Ren, Xiaoling; Zhang, Pei] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Table Tennis Coll, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Xiao, Yi] Shanghai Univ Sport, China Table Tennis Coll, Shanghai, Peoples R China								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900005	42	Article; Article		
J	Sholto-Douglas, Robert; Cook, Ryan; Wilkie, Matthew; Christie, Candice Jo-Anne								Movement Demands of an Elite Cricket Team During the Big Bash League in Australia								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			59	64					MAR 2020	2020	There is a lack of research on the movement patterns within Twenty20 (T20) cricket, thus the purpose of this study was to investigate the movement demands placed on elite T20 cricket players playing in The Big Bash League, in Australia, in the 2017/2018 season. Player positional movements were determined from the time motion data obtained from a portable 10 Hz global positioning (GPS) unit. Overall, all the players covered between 1.77km and 6.54km in a time ranging between 40.4 minutes and 96.5 minutes. Fast bowlers covered a mean distance of 6.5 (+/- 0.5) km, batsmen 1.7 (+/- 1.2) km and fielders 5.9 (+/- 0.9) km. This is the first study that has looked at the movement demands of players in The Big Bash League and found that bowlers have the highest movement demands followed by fielding. With that, arguably, more attention needs to be devoted to bowling and particularly fielding which is often not prioritized. However, overall demands of T20 cricketers have decreased. Cricketers and coaches need to ensure that they adapt training to ensure that their players are physically prepared for the associated demands.		[Sholto-Douglas, Robert; Christie, Candice Jo-Anne] Rhodes Univ, Human Kinet & Ergon, Grahamstown, South Africa; [Cook, Ryan] Gary Kirsten Cricket, Cape Town, South Africa; [Wilkie, Matthew] Cricket Tasmania, Hobart, Tas, Australia; [Christie, Candice Jo-Anne] Rhodes Univ, Human Kinet & Ergon, Grahamstown, South Africa								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900007	18	Article; Article		
J	Tartar, Jaime L.; Cabrera, Dominick; Knafo, Sarah; Thomas, Julius D.; Antonio, Jose; Peacock, Corey A.								The "Warrior" COMT Val/Met Genotype Occurs in Greater Frequencies in Mixed Martial Arts Fighters Relative to Controls								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			38	42					MAR 2020	2020	A functional single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene (rs4680) is a gene variant that has been shown to predict the ability to maintain cognitive agility during combat and competition. Critically, COMT Met (low-activity; high dopamine) allele carriers outperform Val (high-activity; low dopamine) homozygotes on a variety of cognitive tasks. However, the relationship between genotype and cognitive performance appears to reverse under stressful conditions. Stress increases pre-frontal cortex dopamine (PFC DA) levels, and Met allele carriers (with higher DA) show performance deficits relative to Val allele carriers. This pattern reflects the inverted U-shaped function of DA activity where too little (Val allele) or too much (Met allele carriers under stress) DA is associated with poor cognitive performance. The Val allele advantage for stress resiliency is referred to as the COMT "warrior/worrier" model. In line with this model, we predicted that elite level mixed martial arts (MMA) fighters would be more likely than athlete controls to carry the GG (warrior) genotype compared to an athlete group and a non-athlete group. Based on findings in our previous studies, we also assessed the stress biomarkers cortisol and salivary alpha-amylase (sAA). There was an overall significant difference in genotype frequencies between groups (p = 0.01) and the MMA group showed a significantly greater GG (warrior) genotype frequency than the non-athlete control group (p = 0.003). There was not a significant group x genotype interaction for the cortisol or sAA; however, the non-athlete GG group had significantly higher cortisol than the A/- group (p = 0.038). Combined, our findings suggest that the "warrior" genotype may play a participation role in combat sports.		[Tartar, Jaime L.; Cabrera, Dominick; Knafo, Sarah; Thomas, Julius D.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Psychol & Neurosci, 3301 Coll Ave, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Antonio, Jose; Peacock, Corey A.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Tartar, Jaime L.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Psychol & Neurosci, 3301 Coll Ave, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900004	32	Article; Article		
J	Fiorilli, Giovanni; Mariano, Intrieri; Iuliano, Enzo; Giombini, Arrigo; Ciccarelli, Antonello; Buonsenso, Andrea; Calcagno, Giuseppe; di Cagno, Alessandra								Isoinertial Eccentric-Overload Training in Young Soccer Players: Effects on Strength, Sprint, Change of Direction, Agility and Soccer Shooting Precision								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			213	223					MAR 2020	2020	The isoinertial training method owes its efficacy to an accommodated resistance and optimal individualized eccentric overload. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of a 6-week isoinertial eccentric-overload training program - using a flywheel inertial device during the execution of specific soccer exercises - on explosive and reactive strength, sprint ability, change of direction (COD) performance and soccer shooting precision. Thirty-four junior soccer players were randomly assigned to a plyometric training group (PT) (n = 16, aged 13.36 +/- 0.80), which underwent a six-week traditional soccer training program, and a flywheel eccentric overload group (FEO) (n = 18, aged 13.21 +/- 1.21), which received additional training consisting of two inertial eccentric-overload training sessions per week. Pre and post intervention tests were carried out to assess explosive and reactive strength, sprint ability, COD ability, agility using the Y-agility test (YT) and soccer shooting precision. The FEO showed significantly higher values than the PT in squat jump height (SJh) (p = 0.01), drop jump height (DJh) (p = 0.003), 7 repeated hop test heights (p = 0.001), the Illinois test (ILL) (p = 0.001), and the Loughborough Soccer Shooting Test (SHOT) (p = 0.02). Finally, the FEO showed significant between-group differences in DJh (p = 0.007), ILL (p = 0.0002), YT (p = 0.002), a linear sprint test (SPRINT) (p = 0.001), and SHOT (p = 0.003). These results confirmed the positive effect of isoinertial training. The use of an isoinertial device to overload multidirectional movements in specific sport conditions leads to greater performance improvements than conventional soccer training. The absence of knowledge of the eccentric overload applied by the isoinertial device, which is different in any exercise repetition, may stimulate the athlete's neural adaptations, improving their soccer skills and in particular their soccer shooting precision.		[Fiorilli, Giovanni; Mariano, Intrieri; Buonsenso, Andrea; Calcagno, Giuseppe] Univ Molise, Dept Med & Hlth Sci, Campobasso, Italy; [Giombini, Arrigo; Ciccarelli, Antonello; di Cagno, Alessandra] Italian Univ Sport & Movement Rome Foro Italico, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Rome, Italy; [Iuliano, Enzo] eCampus Univ, Fac Psychol, Novedrate, Italy; [di Cagno, Alessandra] Univ Sport & Movement Rome Foro Italico, I-00197 Rome, Italy								70							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900024	59	Article; Article		
J	Dafkou, Konstantinos; Kellis, Eleftherios; Ellinoudis, Athanasios; Sahinis, Chrysostomos								The Effect of Additional External Resistance on Inter-Set Changes in Abdominal Muscle Thickness during Bridging Exercise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			102	111					MAR 2020	2020	Bridging exercises with abdominal hollowing are often used as a regimen for improving spinal stability. Lately, this type of training has become very popular among elite athletes, creating a need for more demanding exercises. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the use of additional external resistance is beneficial for abdominal muscle recruitment during bridge exercise. Tissue movement of the transversus abdominis (TrA) and the rectus abdominis (RA) was recorded with the use of two synchronized ultrasonic devices, in 20 healthy college students. From the hook-lying position participants were examined in eight different exercise conditions: a) rest, b) abdominal drawing-in maneuver (ADIM), c) bridge, d) bridge-ADIM, e) bridge with 10KG, f) bridge-ADIM with 10KG, g) bridge with 20KG and h) bridge-ADIM with 20KG. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) showed a statistically significant increase in TrA thickness when performing the bridge exercise combined with ADIM compared to rest mode (p < .05). RA thickness decreased when the ADIM was performed, compared to rest (p < 0.05). No significant difference in TrA and RA thickness when exercising with and without external resistance was observed (p > 0.05). The main outcome of this study was that external loading provided some extra level of difficulty, yet it was not beneficial for abdominal muscle recruitment, when performing a supine bridge exercise.		[Dafkou, Konstantinos; Kellis, Eleftherios; Ellinoudis, Athanasios; Sahinis, Chrysostomos] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Lab Neuromech, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Serres, Greece; [Dafkou, Konstantinos] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Lab Neuromech, TEFAA Senes, Serres 62100, Greece								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900012	50	Article; Article		
J	Gollan, Stuart; Bellenger, Clint; Norton, Kevin								Contextual Factors Impact Styles of Play in the English Premier League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			78	83					MAR 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of contextual factors on game styles in professional soccer. Interactions between styles and different playing venues, opposition quality, total match goals, and competing styles, were investigated using logistic regression and odds ratios. Game styles were characterised using the moments of play framework where three distinct styles have been identified: Style 1 - moderate strength in defence; Style 2 - dominance in transition, and Style 3 - strength in attacking phases of play. Results revealed that when playing at home against teams identified by Style 1, teams were more likely to play Style 2 (p < 0.05) or Style 3 (p < 0.001). Against top 10 opposition, teams were less likely to play Style 3 compared to either Style 1 (p < 0.001) or Style 2 (p < 0.001). Regardless of venue, teams were more likely to play Style 3 against bottom 10 sides compared to either Style 1 (p < 0.001) or Style 2 (p < 0.001), suggesting a hierarchical order between contextual factors. Competing game styles significantly impacted total match goals scored, whilst match results were also influenced by game style combinations. Overall, this study showed the significant effects of various contextual variables on game styles played by teams in the EPL.		[Gollan, Stuart] Adelaide United Football Club, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Gollan, Stuart; Bellenger, Clint; Norton, Kevin] Univ South Australia, ARENA, Sch Hlth Sci, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Gollan, Stuart] Univ South Australia, ARENA, Sch Hlth Sci, Adelaide, SA, Australia								35							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900009	36	Article; Article		
J	da Silva, Edenilson Pinto, Jr.; Borges, Leandro; Bachi, Andre Luis Lacerda; Hirabara, Sandro Massao; Lambertucci, Rafael Herling								L-arginine Improves Plasma Lipid Profile and Muscle Inflammatory Response in Trained Rats After High-Intense Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			82	90		10.1080/02701367.2019.1711006			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: This study aimed to evaluate whether supplementation with L-arginine alone or in combination with physical exercise training can modulate rats' lipid and inflammatory profiles after a single intense exercise session. Methods: Male Wistar rats were divided into four different groups: control (C), trained (T), supplemented with L-arginine (C + A) and trained and supplemented (T + A). Animals from supplemented groups (C + A and T + A groups) received 300 mg/kg animal body weight L-arginine diluted in 30 mL of drinking water for 8 weeks. Exercise training protocol (moderate intensity-70% achieved in the maximum effort test) was held 5 days/week for 8 weeks. Results: Exercise training induced a decrease in the amount of plasma, cholesterol and triglyceride totals, and skeletal muscle VEGF and CINC. Supplementation alone showed a benefit by reducing LDL levels. Conclusion: Training combined with supplementation showed a pronounced reduction in skeletal muscle VEGF and CINC amount. L-arginine supplementation, especially when associated with the regular aerobic physical exercise at moderate intensity was able to improve not only plasma lipid profile but also the inflammatory response of skeletal muscle immediately after an exhaustive physical exercise session.		[da Silva, Edenilson Pinto, Jr.; Borges, Leandro; Hirabara, Sandro Massao] Cruzeiro do Sul Univ, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Bachi, Andre Luis Lacerda] Fed Univ Sao Paulo UNIFESP, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lambertucci, Rafael Herling] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lambertucci, Rafael Herling] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Biosci, Rua Silva Jardim 136,Room 319, BR-11015020 Santos, SP, Brazil								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000525950300001	50	Article; Article		
J	Bonnette, Scott; DiCesare, Christopher A.; Kiefer, Adam W.; Riley, Michael A.; Foss, Kim D. Barber; Thomas, Staci; Diekfuss, Jed A.; Myer, Gregory D.								A Technical Report on the Development of a Real-Time Visual Biofeedback System to Optimize Motor Learning and Movement Deficit Correction								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				19	1			84	94					MAR 2020	2020	This technical report describes the design and implementation of a novel biofeedback system to reduce biomechanical risk factors associated with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries. The system provided objective real-time biofeedback driven by biomechanical variables associated with increased ACL injury risk without the need of a present expert. Eleven adolescent female athletes (age = 16.7 +/- 1.34 yrs; height = 1.70 +/- 0.05 m; weight = 62.20 +/- 5.63 kg) from the same varsity high school volleyball team were enrolled in the experiment. Participants first completed 10 bodyweight squats in the absence of the biofeedback (pretest), 40 bodyweight squats while interacting with the biofeedback, and a final 10 bodyweight squats in the absence of the biofeedback (posttest). Participants also completed three pretest drop vertical jumps and three posttest drop vertical jumps. Results revealed significant improvements in squat performance, as quantified by a novel heat map analysis, from the pretest to the posttest. Additionally, participants displayed improvements in landing mechanics during the drop vertical jump. This study demonstrates that participants were able to interact effectively with the real-time biofeedback and that biomechanical improvements observed during squatting translated to a separate task.		[Bonnette, Scott; DiCesare, Christopher A.; Kiefer, Adam W.; Foss, Kim D. Barber; Thomas, Staci; Diekfuss, Jed A.; Myer, Gregory D.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, SPORT Ctr, Div Sports Med, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA; [Bonnette, Scott; DiCesare, Christopher A.; Kiefer, Adam W.; Foss, Kim D. Barber; Thomas, Staci; Diekfuss, Jed A.; Myer, Gregory D.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp & Med Ctr, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA; [Kiefer, Adam W.; Riley, Michael A.] Univ Cincinnati, Dept Psychol, Ctr Cognit Act & Percept, Cincinnati, OH 45221 USA; [Kiefer, Adam W.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Cincinnati, Coll Med, Dept Pediat, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Cincinnati, Coll Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Bonnette, Scott] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, SPORT Ctr, Div Sports Med, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA; [Bonnette, Scott] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp & Med Ctr, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000516851900010	71	Article; Article		
J	Parcell, Brandon; Simon, Janet E.								Global and region-specific patient-reported outcomes pre and post a division I football season								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				146	150		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.014			MAR 2020	2020	Objective: Determine the change in global and region-specific PROMs among athletes from one NCAA Division I football team during one season. Design: Prospective cross-sectional study. Setting: Athletic training facility. Patients or other participants: Fifty-three Division I collegiate football athletes (n = 54) were eligible (20.1 +/- 1.4 years, 187.7 +/- 8.3 cm, and 113.5 +/- 25.6 kg) for analyses. Participants completed five PROMs (Disablement in the Physically Active Scale [DPA], Epworth Sleep Score [ESS], Headache Impact Test [Hit-6], Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand [DASH], and the Lower Extremity Functional Scale [LEFS]) before the season and the same five PROMs after the season. Main outcome measures: A multivariate repeated measure analysis of variance (ANOVA) was conducted for all dependent variables. Alpha level was set at alpha = 0.05. Results: The overall multivariate repeated measures ANOVA was significant for time (p = 0.01). Follow up one-way ANOVA's indicated the DPA (p < 0.01, mean decrease/worse of 6.6 points) and LEFS (p = 0.01, mean decrease/worse of 4.1 points) were statistically significant between time points. Conclusion: Division I football can be detrimental to the physical, mental, and emotional health of the athletes. From these data, global and one region-specific PROM decreased over one season in one NCAA Division I football team. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Parcell, Brandon] Cadillac Area Publ Sch, Southfield, MI USA; [Simon, Janet E.] Ohio Univ, E150 Grover Ctr, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Simon, Janet E.] Ohio Univ, E150 Grover Ctr, Athens, OH 45701 USA								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600021	44	Article; Article		
J	Chan, Zoe Y. S.; Zhang, Janet H.; Ferber, Reed; Shum, Gary; Cheung, Roy T. H.								The effects of midfoot strike gait retraining on impact loading and joint stiffness								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				139	145		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.011			MAR 2020	2020	Objective: To assess the biomechanical changes following a systematic gait retraining to modify footstrike patterns from rearfoot strike (RFS) to midfoot strike (MFS). Design: Pre-post interventional study. All participants underwent a gait retraining program designed to modify footstrike pattern to MFS. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: Twenty habitual RFS male runners participated. Main outcome measures: Gait evaluations were conducted before and after the training. Footstrike pattern, vertical loading rates, ankle and knee joint stiffness were compared. Results: Participants' footstrike angle was reduced (p < 0.001, Cohen's d = 1.65) and knee joint stiffness was increased (p = 0.003, Cohen's d = 0.69). No significant difference was found in the vertical loading rates (p > 0.155). Further subgroup analyses were conducted on the respondents (n = 8, 40% of participants) who exhibited MFS for over 80% of their footfalls during the post-training evaluation. Apart from the increased knee joint stiffness (p = 0.005, Cohen's d = 1.14), respondents exhibited a significant reduction in the ankle joint stiffness (p = 0.019, Cohen's d = 1.17) when running with MFS. Conclusions: Gait retraining to promote MFS was effective in reducing runners' footstrike angle, but only 40% of participants responded to this training program. The inconsistent training effect on impact loading suggests a need to develop new training protocols in an effort to prevent running injuries. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Chan, Zoe Y. S.; Zhang, Janet H.; Cheung, Roy T. H.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Gait & Mot Anal Lab, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Running Injury Clin, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Fac Nursing, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Ferber, Reed] Univ Calgary, Cumming Sch Med, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Shum, Gary] Plymouth Marjon Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Plymouth, Devon, England; [Chan, Zoe Y. S.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Gait & Mot Anal Lab, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600020	35	Article; Article		
J	Medeiros, Diulian Muniz; Aimi, Mateus; Vaz, Marco Aurelio; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini								Effects of low-level laser therapy on hamstring strain injury rehabilitation: A randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				124	130		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.006			MAR 2020	2020	Objectives: To evaluate the effects of low-level laser therapy (LLLT) on functional rehabilitation following hamstring strain injury (HSI) in amateur athletes treated with an exercise-based rehabilitation program. Design: Randomized controlled trial. Methods: Male athletes (18-40 years old) who sustained HSI were randomized in LLLT or placebo groups. All patients were engaged in the same exercise-based rehabilitation program until they met specific criteria to return to sport. Hamstring muscles were treated with LLLT or placebo immediately after each rehabilitation session. The primary outcome was time-to-return to sport. Secondary outcomes were the number of rehabilitation sessions, hamstring flexibility, hamstring strength, and re-injury rate. Results: Twenty-four athletes began rehabilitation, and 22 (11 per group) completed the study schedule. Participants of LLLT and placebo groups had similar age, body size, injury characteristics, and baseline levels of hamstring flexibility and strength. The two groups increased flexibility and strength similarly throughout the rehabilitation program. Time-to-return to sport was the same for athletes treated with LLLT (23 +/- 9 days) and placebo (24 +/- 13 days). There were no re-injuries within 6 months after return to sport. Conclusion: LLLT, as used in this study, did not optimize functional rehabilitation following HSI in amateur athletes treated with an exercise-based rehabilitation program. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Medeiros, Diulian Muniz; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Aimi, Mateus; Vaz, Marco Aurelio] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Ctr Hist, Rua Sarmento Leite 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600018	42	Article; Article		
J	Decleve, Ph; Attar, T.; Benameur, T.; Gaspar, V; Van Cant, J.; Cools, Ann M.								The "upper limb rotation test": Reliability and validity study of a new upper extremity physical performance test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				118	123		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.009			MAR 2020	2020	Objectives: The primary purpose was to evaluate the reliability of the Upper Limb Rotation Test (ULRT). The secondary objective was to evaluate the relationship between the ULRT and two PPTs (SMBT and CKCUEST), trunk rotation range of motion (SRT) and shoulder rotational isometric strength. Design: Reliability study and correlation study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 91 healthy adults participated to establish the reliability and validity of the ULRT. Main outcome measures: We used a two-session measurement design to evaluate the reliability of the ULRT. The SMBT, CKCUEST, SAC and the SRT were performed to determine relationships with the ULRT. Results: Results showed good reliability. The SEM95 and the MDC95 showed clinically acceptable absolute reliability values for the ULRT. A moderate correlation was found between the ULRT and CKCUEST scores. A moderate correlation was found between ULRT and SMBT scores. Conclusions: Results demonstrated good relative reliability and clinically acceptable absolute reliability values for the ULRT. Performances on the ULRT were moderately correlated with the PPTs. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Decleve, Ph; Cools, Ann M.] Univ Hosp Ghent, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Corneel Heymanslaan 10,B3, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium; [Decleve, Ph; Attar, T.; Benameur, T.; Van Cant, J.] Inst Parnasse ISEI, Dept Phys Therapy, Ave Mounier 84, B-1200 Brussels, Belgium; [Gaspar, V; Van Cant, J.] Catholic Univ Louvain, Fac Motor Sci, Pl Coubertin, B-1348 Louvain La Neuve, Belgium; [Decleve, Ph] Univ Hosp Ghent, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Corneel Heymanslaan 10,B3, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium								32							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600017	32	Article; Article		
J	Taddei, Ulisses T.; Matias, Alessandra B.; Ribeiro, Fernanda I. A.; Bus, Sicco A.; Sacco, Isabel C. N.								Effects of a foot strengthening program on foot muscle morphology and running mechanics: A proof-of-concept, single-blind randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				107	115		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.007			MAR 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate the effects of a foot training program on muscle morphology and strength as well as running biomechanics in healthy recreational runners. Design: Proof-of-concept, single-blind randomized controlled trial. Settings: Runners were allocated to a control (CG) or an intervention (IG) group. The intervention focused on strengthening the intrinsic foot muscles and their activation during weight-bearing activities. All participants were assessed at baseline and after 8-weeks. Participants: Twenty-eight healthy recreational long-distance runners not habituated to minimalist running shoes or barefoot running. Main outcomes measures: Outcomes were hallux and toes strength; foot function, cross-sectional area and volume of the abductor hallucis (ABH), abductor digiti minimi (ABV), flexor digitorum brevis (FDB), and flexor hallucis brevis; medial longitudinal arch range of motion and stiffness; vertical and anteroposterior propulsive impulses during running. Results: Compared to the CG, an increase was found in the IG for the volume of all muscles investigated and for vertical propulsive impulse during running. Correlations were found between vertical propulsive impulse and volume of ABH(r = 0.40), ABV(r = 0.41), and FDB(r = 0.69). Conclusion: The foot exercise protocol effectively increased intrinsic foot muscle volume and propulsive forces in recreational runners. This shows that intrinsic muscle strengthening affects running mechanics and suggests that it may improve running performance. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Taddei, Ulisses T.; Matias, Alessandra B.; Ribeiro, Fernanda I. A.; Sacco, Isabel C. N.] Univ Sao Paulo, Cidade Univ, Sch Med, Phys Therapy Speech & Occupat Therapy Dept, Rua Cipotanea 51, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Bus, Sicco A.] Univ Amsterdam, Dept Rehabil Med, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam Movement Sci, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Sacco, Isabel C. N.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Med, Dept Phys Therapy Speech & Occupat Therapy, Rua Cipotanea 51, BR-05360160 Sao Paulo, Brazil								43							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600015	46	Article; Article		
J	Bazett-Jones, David M.; Squier, Kaitlin								Measurement properties of hip strength measured by handheld dynamometry: Reliability and validity across the range of motion								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				100	106		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.005			MAR 2020	2020	Objectives: Different angles and positions may influence the reliability and validity of hip strength dynamometry. This study examined the reliability and validity of hip strength measured with belt-stabilized handheld dynamometry (HHD) compared to isokinetic dynamometry (IKD) across multiple angles. Design: Repeated measures. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Thirty healthy participants completed 3 sessions. Main outcome measures: Hip torque was measured for hip abduction (ABD; -10 degrees, 0 degrees, 20 degrees, and 40 degrees), internal rotation (IR; -30 degrees, -15 degrees, 0 degrees, 15 degrees, and 30 degrees), external rotation (ER; -30 degrees, -15 degrees, 0 degrees, 15 degrees, and 30 degrees), and extension (EXT; -10 degrees, 0 degrees, 30 degrees, 60 degrees, 90 degrees, and 120 degrees). Results: ABD was reliable (no intratester reliability differences p = 0.409-0.997; ICC = 0.624-0.900) and valid (no HHD-IKD difference p = 0.270-0.946; r = 0.556-0.624) measure. IR had questionable reliability (intratester reliability differences p = 0.001-0.043; ICC = 0.682-0.879) and validity (HHD-IKD differences p < 0.001; r = 0.393-0.771). ER was reliable (no intratester reliability differences p = 0.226-0.937; ICC = 0.731-0.876) but not valid (HHD-IKD differences p < 0.001-0.003; r = 0.194-0.651). EXT showed varying levels of reliability and validity; 30 degrees was both reliable and valid. Peak torque occurred in a lengthened position for ABD, ER, and IR, and at 90 degrees of hip flexion for EXT. Conclusions: HHD can be an effective tool for measuring strength under certain circumstances; however, IR/ER testing should be used with caution. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bazett-Jones, David M.] Univ Toledo, Dept Athlet Training, Hlth & Human Serv, Mail Stop 119,2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Squier, Kaitlin] Carroll Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Waukesha, WI USA; [Bazett-Jones, David M.] Univ Toledo, Dept Athlet Training, Hlth & Human Serv, Mail Stop 119,2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600014	35	Article; Article		
J	Moreno-Alcaraz, Victor J.; Cejudo, Antonio; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar								Injury types and frequency in Spanish inline hockey players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				91	99		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.003			MAR 2020	2020	Objective: To describe injury types and frequencies in Spanish inline hockey players. Design: Descriptive epidemiological study. Setting: Amateur inline hockey teams competing in Spanish leagues between 2010-2011 and 2016-2017 seasons. Participants: 154 inline hockey players (aged 10-42 years). Main outcome measurements: Injury incidence, body segment injured, injury mechanism and severity, type of injury, type of play at the time of injury, time of the season at time of injury, location on the rink at the time of injury, player position and use of protective equipment. Results: 80 injuries were reported. More than twice as many injuries occurred during games (67.5%) as practice (32.5%). The most common body site injured was the ankle (20%). Fractures (28.7%), and sprains (26.3%) were the most common type of injury. Non-contact skating (23.7%), falls (18.7%), and player contact (18.7%) were the most common mechanism of injury. Ankle sprain (10%) was the most common body site-type injury. Severe injuries (>= 29 days' time lost) occurred more often than mild to moderate injuries (<29 days' time lost). Conclusions: The risk of severe injury for inline hockey players is high. Non-contact injuries such as skating and falls had a high incidence. The characteristics of inline skating surface, mechanics of inline skating and fatigue may be the cause of a significant amount of the lower extremity sprain injuries. Continued surveillance is warranted to evaluate inline hockey injury trends over time. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Moreno-Alcaraz, Victor J.; Cejudo, Antonio; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Cejudo, Antonio] Fac Sport, C Argentina 19, Murcia 30720, Spain								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600013	48	Article; Article		
J	Coronado, Rogelio A.; Sterling, Emma K.; Fenster, Dana E.; Bird, Mackenzie L.; Heritage, Allan J.; Woosley, Vickie L.; Burston, Alda M.; Henry, Abigail L.; Huston, Laura J.; Vanston, Susan W.; Cox, Charles L., III; Sullivan, Jaron P.; Wegener, Stephen T.; Spindler, Kurt P.; Archer, Kristin R.								Cognitive-behavioral-based physical therapy to enhance return to sport after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: An open pilot study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				82	90		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.004			MAR 2020	2020	Objectives: To describe feasibility, adherence, acceptability, and outcomes of a cognitive-behavioral-based physical therapy (CBPT-ACLR) intervention for improving postoperative recovery after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Pilot study. Setting: Academic medical center. Participants: Eight patients (mean age [SD] = 20.1 [2.6] years, 6 females) participated in a 7-session telephone-based CBPT-ACLR intervention beginning preoperatively and lasting 8 weeks after surgery. Main outcome measures: At 6 months, patients completed Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) sports/recreation and quality of life (QOL) subscales, International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC), Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia (TSK), Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS), and Knee Self-Efficacy Scale (K-SES), return to sport (Subjective Patient Outcome for Return to Sports), and satisfaction. Minimal clinically important difference (MCID) was used for meaningful change. Results: Seven (88%) patients completed all sessions. Seven (88%) patients exceeded MCID on the TSK, 6 (75%) on the PCS, 5 (63%) on the KOOS sports/recreation subscale, 4 (50%) on the IKDC, and 3 (38%) on the KOOS QOL subscale. Three (38%) patients returned to their same sport at the same level of effort and performance. All patients were satisfied with their recovery. Conclusions: A CBPT-ACLR program is feasible and acceptable for addressing psychological risk factors after ACLR. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Coronado, Rogelio A.; Sterling, Emma K.; Fenster, Dana E.; Bird, Mackenzie L.; Burston, Alda M.; Henry, Abigail L.; Huston, Laura J.; Vanston, Susan W.; Cox, Charles L., III; Sullivan, Jaron P.; Archer, Kristin R.] Vanderbilt Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Med Ctr, Nashville, TN 37232 USA; [Coronado, Rogelio A.; Huston, Laura J.; Archer, Kristin R.] Vanderbilt Univ, Ctr Musculoskeletal Res, Med Ctr, Nashville, TN 37232 USA; [Coronado, Rogelio A.; Archer, Kristin R.] Vanderbilt Univ, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Med Ctr, Nashville, TN 37232 USA; [Heritage, Allan J.] Vanderbilt Univ, Dept Psychol, Nashville, TN 37232 USA; [Heritage, Allan J.] Lipscomb Univ, Dept Psychol Counseling & Family Sci, Nashville, TN USA; [Woosley, Vickie L.] Vanderbilt Univ, Athlet Dept, Nashville, TN 37232 USA; [Wegener, Stephen T.] Johns Hopkins Med, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Baltimore, MD USA; [Spindler, Kurt P.] Cleveland Clin Fdn, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 9500 Euclid Ave, Cleveland, OH 44195 USA; [Archer, Kristin R.] Vanderbilt Univ, Osher Ctr Integrat Med, Med Ctr, Nashville, TN 37232 USA; [Archer, Kristin R.] Vanderbilt Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Ctr Musculoskeletal Res, 1215 21st Ave South,MCE South Tower,Suite 4200, Nashville, TN 37232 USA								55							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600012	65	Article; Article		
J	Romero-Morales, Carlos; Javier Martin-Llantino, Pedro; Calvo-Lobo, Cesar; San Antolin-Gil, Marta; Lopez-Lopez, Daniel; Benito-de Pedro, Maria; Rodriguez Sanz, David								Vibration increases multifidus cross-sectional area versus cryotherapy added to chronic non-insertional Achilles tendinopathy eccentric exercise								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				61	67		10.1016/j.ptsp.2020.01.002			MAR 2020	2020	Objective: To assess multifidus muscle thickness, cross-sectional area (CSA) and disability in patients with chronic non-insertional Achilles tendinopathy (AT) who developed an eccentric exercise (EE) vibration program compared to an EE program with cryotherapy. Design: Single-blinded randomized clinical trial. Setting: Outpatient clinic. Participants: A total sample of 61 patients diagnosed with chronic non-insertional AT was recruited and randomly divided into two groups. A group (n = 30) developed the EE program plus vibration and B group (n = 31) received the EE program plus cryotherapy for 12 weeks. Multifidus thickness and CSA were measured at rest and during maximal isometric contraction by ultrasound imaging. The Victorian Institute for Sport Assessment (VISA-A) was used to asses functionality. Results: Multifidus CSA was statistically significant increased (P < 0.05) for the EE vibration program group with respect to EE plus cryotherapy during maximal isometric contraction and at rest at 12-weeks after intervention in individuals with chronic non-insertional AT. Despite both interventions showed differences for the multifidus thickness and AT disability variables over time, there were not between-groups differences. Conclusions: Authors encourage the use of vibration with respect to cryotherapy added to EE programs in order to enhance multifidus CSA in addition to lower limb functionality in individuals who suffer from chronic non-insertional AT. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Romero-Morales, Carlos; Javier Martin-Llantino, Pedro] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Calvo-Lobo, Cesar; Benito-de Pedro, Maria; Rodriguez Sanz, David] Univ Complutense Madrid, Sch Nursing Physiotherapy & Podiatry, Madrid, Spain; [San Antolin-Gil, Marta] Univ Europea Madrid, Dept Psychol, Madrid, Spain; [Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Res Hlth & Podiatry Croup, Dept Hlth Sci, Ferrol, Spain; [Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Fac Nursing & Podiatry, Ferrol, Spain; [Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Res Hlth & Podiatry Croup, Dept Hlth Sci, Ferrol, Spain; [Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Fac Nursing & Podiatry, Ferrol, Spain								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600009	64	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Youngwook; Lee, Jung-Min; Wellsandt, Elizabeth; Rosen, Adam B.								Comparison of shoulder range of motion, strength, and upper quarter dynamic balance between NCAA division I overhead athletes with and without a history of shoulder injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				53	60		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.12.007			MAR 2020	2020	Objective: To determine differences in shoulder range of motion, strength, and upper quarter dynamic balance between collegiate overhead athletes with and without a history of a shoulder injury. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Athletic training clinic. Participants: 58 overhead athletes who were fully participating in NCAA Division I overhead sports (baseball, softball, volleyball, and tennis) and free of any current shoulder injury were included. Participants were divided into a shoulder injury history group (n = 25) and uninjured group (n = 33). Participants in the shoulder injury history group had a previously resolved shoulder injury. Main outcome measures: Active range of motion assessments for shoulder internal rotation, external rotation, and horizontal adduction. Isometric strength assessments for shoulder IR and ER. The Upper Quarter Y-Balance Test. Results: The shoulder injury history group demonstrated a lower Upper Quarter Y-Balance Test mean score in the superolateral direction (p =.03, d = 0.56), but no group differences existed for other results (p >.05). Conclusions: Overhead athletes with a history of shoulder injury had worse upper quarter dynamic balance versus those without the history. From a clinical perspective, the findings may have significant implications for developing shoulder re-injury prevention and rehabilitation protocols in relation to their shoulder injury history. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kim, Youngwook] Utah State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, 7000 Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Lee, Jung-Min] Kyung Hee Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ, 1732 Deogyeong Daero, Yongin 17104, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Wellsandt, Elizabeth] Univ Nebraska, Coll Allied Hlth Profess, Div Phys Therapy Educ, Med Ctr, 42nd & Emile, Omaha, NE 68198 USA; [Rosen, Adam B.] Univ Nebraska, Coll Educ, Sch Hlth & Kinesiol, 6001 Dodge St, Omaha, NE 68182 USA; [Rosen, Adam B.] Univ Nebraska, Coll Educ, Sch Hlth & Kinesiol, 6001 Dodge St, Omaha, NE 68182 USA								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600008	39	Article; Article		
J	Alahmari, Ahmed; Herrington, Lee; Jones, Richard								Concurrent validity of two-dimensional video analysis of lower-extremity frontal plane of movement during multidirectional single-leg landing								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				40	45		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.12.009			MAR 2020	2020	Objectives: Establish the concurrent validity between 2D video analysis and 3D motion analysis of frontal plane lower limb movements during multidirectional landing tasks. Design: Correlation study. Setting: University Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: 34 (19 male, 15 female) uninjured physical active individuals. Main outcome measures: knee abduction and hip adduction angles during a variety of single leg landing tasks. Results: 2D knee abduction showed an association with 3D knee abduction angle ranging from r = 0.17 -0.42 across the tasks, with r(2) values ranging between 0.03 and 0.17. 2D hip adduction angle in both legs reported a strong and significant correlation with 3D hip adduction angle, ranging from r = 0.70-0.90 across all tasks. Linear regression analysis (r(2)) revealed that 49-81% of 3D hip adduction angle can be explained by 2D measurement. Conclusion: It might be difficult to explain 3D knee abduction angle using 2D video analysis during single leg landing tasks, whereas 2D hip adduction angle is a strong predictor or 3D hip adduction angle. It would appear 2D video analysis has strong concurrent validity when assessing hip adduction angle, but it is weak when assessing knee abduction angle during a variety of single leg landing tasks. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Alahmari, Ahmed; Herrington, Lee; Jones, Richard] Univ Salford, Ctr Hlth Sci Res, Sch Hlth Sci, Frederick Rd Campus, Salford M6 6PU, Lancs, England; [Herrington, Lee] Univ Salford, Ctr Hlth Sci Res, Sch Hlth Sci, Frederick Rd Campus, Salford M6 6PU, Lancs, England								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600006	29	Article; Article		
J	Miller, Heather; Fawcett, Louise; Rushton, Alison								Does gender and ankle injury history affect weightbearing dorsiflexion in elite artistic gymnasts?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				46	52		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.12.003			MAR 2020	2020	Objectives: To establish normative data for weightbearing dorsiflexion (WBDF) in elite artistic gymnasts. Design: Quasi-experimental design with descriptive analysis (mean, SD, 95% CI). Use of independent ttest to analyse gender differences, and dependent t-test to analyse WBDF injured limb compared to contralateral uninjured limb. Setting: Data Collection at British Gymnastics Lilleshall National Sports Centre during national squad training camp. Participants: 55 Participants of the British Gymnastics National Artistic Squad (27 male and 28 female). Main outcome measure: Weightbearing lunge test to measure WBDF using a digital inclinometer. Results: There was no significant difference (p > 0.05) for gender and WBDF, although females had less range and greater variability (female mean +/- SD = 45.0 degrees +/- 6.8 degrees, 95% CI 42.6 degrees, 47.6 degrees; male mean +/- SD 45.6 degrees +/- 5.4 degrees, 95% CI 43.7 degrees, 47.6 degrees). There was a significant difference (t[23) = -3.259, p < 0.05) for previous injury and WBDF (uninjured mean +/- SD 47.4 degrees +/- 5.7 degrees, 95% CI 45.0 degrees, 49.8 degrees; injured 45.1 degrees +/- 6.0 degrees, 95% CI 42.6 degrees, 47.7). Conclusions: Gymnasts with a unilateral injury history have significantly less WBDF in the injured limb compared to the contralateral uninjured limb. Females have less WBDF than males, however this was not significant. Further research is needed to establish if this deficit in WBDF after injury is an issue during gymnasts' landings. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Miller, Heather] Manchester Inst Hlth & Performance, English Inst Sport, 229 Alan Turing Way, Manchester M11 3BS, Lancs, England; [Fawcett, Louise] Lilleshall Natl Sports Ctr, English Inst Sport, British Gymnast, Newport TF10 9AT, Shrops, England; [Miller, Heather; Rushton, Alison] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham B15 2TT, W Midlands, England; [Miller, Heather] Manchester Inst Hlth & Performance, English Inst Sport, 229 Alan Turing Way, Manchester M11 3BS, Lancs, England								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600007	29	Article; Article		
J	Bitchell, Charlotte Leah; Mathema, Prabhat; Moore, Isabel S.								Four-year match injury surveillance in male Welsh professional Rugby Union teams								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				26	32		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.12.001			MAR 2020	2020	Objectives: To report match injury incidence, burden and mechanism over a four-year period in professional male Welsh Regional Rugby Union. Design: Descriptive; Longitudinal. Setting: Welsh Regional Rugby Union. Participants: Four Welsh Regional male Rugby Union teams. Main Outcome Measures: All time-loss injuries sustained between July 1, 2012 and June 30, 2016. Incidence (injuries/1000 h), severity (mean and median days lost per injury), burden (days-lost/1000 h) and proportions (%) were calculated. Results: The overall injury incidence and burden was 99.1 injuries/1000 h and 2570.3 days-lost/1000 h. Concussion represented the highest incidence and burden of all specific injuries, with increases in burden from 2012/13 (86.5 days-lost/1000 h) to 2015/16 (302.4 days-lost/1000 h). Acromio-clavicular (AC) joint injuries increased in burden from 2012/13 to 2015/16 (71.3 vs 130.6 days-lost/1000 h). However, anterior thigh haematomas decreased in incidence (8.2 vs 2.4 injuries/1000 h) and burden (48.6 vs 17.7 days lost/1000 h) across the same period. Tackle events contributed to the highest proportion of match injuries (being tackled: 20-31%, tackling: 30-42%). Conclusions: Injury incidence was higher than previously reported for professional Rugby Union. Decreases in anterior thigh haematoma and increases in concussion and AC joint injuries were shown, identifying a change in contact-related match injury risk. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bitchell, Charlotte Leah; Moore, Isabel S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cyncoed Campus,Cyncoed Rd, Cardiff CF23 6XD, Wales; [Mathema, Prabhat] Welsh Rugby Union, Natl Ctr Excellence, Vale Hotel CF72 8JY, Hensol, Wales; [Bitchell, Charlotte Leah] Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cyncoed Campus, Cardiff CF23 6XD, Wales								29							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600004	34	Article; Article		
J	Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Oliver, Jon L.; Myer, Gregory D.; Croix, Mark De Ste; Read, Paul J.								Seasonal variation in neuromuscular control in young male soccer players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				33	39		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.12.006			MAR 2020	2020	Objective: Determine how lower limb neuromuscular control changes over the course of a competitive soccer season. Design: Repeated measures. Setting: Academy soccer club. Participants: 43 male youth soccer players (age 13.1 +/- 2.2 yr; height 160.1 +/- 15.7 cm; body mass 49.4 +/- 14.3 kg; maturity offset 0.2 +/- 1.9 yr). Main outcome measures: Pre-, mid- and end of season assessments of peak landing forces during single leg 75% horizontal hop and stick (75%HOP) and a single leg countermovement jump (SLCMJ), single leg hop for distance (SLHD), knee valgus during the tuck jump assessment (TJA) and inter-limb symmetries. Results: Hop distance increased significantly. Absolute peak landing forces in the left leg during the SLCMJ and 75%HOP increased significantly, with significant increases also present in the same leg for SLCMJ relative peak landing force. TJA knee valgus score was reduced in the right leg, but remained at a 'moderate' level in the left knee. Conclusion: Neuromuscular control, as evidenced by increased absolute and relative peak landing forces, appears to reduce over the course of a competitive season. Young soccer players should engage in neuromuscular training throughout the season to offset any decrements in neuromuscular control and to facilitate appropriate landing strategies. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Oliver, Jon L.; Read, Paul J.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Oliver, Jon L.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Myer, Gregory D.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Div Sports Med, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Cincinnati, Coll Med, Dept Pediat & Orthopaed Surg, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Boston, MA USA; [Croix, Mark De Ste] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Read, Paul J.] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport, Cyncoed Campus,Cyncoed Rd, Cardiff CF23 6XD, Wales								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600005	44	Article; Article		
J	Ramsey, Codi; Lamb, Peter; Ribeiro, Daniel Cury								Clinicians perceptions of footwear when assessing and managing patients with running-related injuries								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				9	15		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.12.005			MAR 2020	2020			[Ramsey, Codi] Otago Polytech, Inst Sport Exercise Sci & Hlth, Forth St Campus, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Ramsey, Codi; Ribeiro, Daniel Cury] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Lamb, Peter] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Ramsey, Codi] Otago Polytech, Inst Sport Exercise Sci & Hlth, Forth St Campus, Dunedin, New Zealand								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600002	62	Article; Article		
J	Vigolvino, Lorena P.; Barros, Bianca R. S.; Medeiros, Clea E. B.; Pinheiro, Scheila M.; Sousa, Catarina O.								Analysis of the presence and influence of Glenohumeral Internal Rotation Deficit on posterior stiffness and isometric shoulder rotators strength ratio in recreational and amateur handball players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				42				1	8		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.12.004			MAR 2020	2020	Objective: To determine whether recreational and amateur handball players exhibit Glenohumeral Internal Rotation Deficit (GIRD), and if it is accompanied by posterior stiffness and changes in shoulder rotators strength. Design: Cross-Sectional Study; Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: Indoor and beach handball players, members of handball teams or engaged in some handball recreational group. Main outcome measures: Range of motion (ROM) of internal rotation (IR) and horizontal adduction (HA), and isometric internal and external rotators strength. Based on the ROM of internal rotation, they were allocated to groups with and without GIRD. Results: The dominant shoulder of GIRD group obtained a lower ROM of IR compared to the non-dominant shoulder of the same group (p < 0.01) and to the dominant (p = 0.02) and non-dominant (p = 0.01) shoulders of the group without GIRD. Less horizontal adduction was observed in both groups (p = 0.01), as well as greater external rotator strength (p = 0.01) and external/internal rotators strength ratio (p < 0.04) in the dominant shoulder. The rotators strength ratio was greater in GIRD group (p < 0.01). Conclusions: The present study showed the dominant shoulder had greater posterior stiffness and external rotator strength, regardless of GIRD. Also the group with GIRD showed higher rotators strength ratio. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Vigolvino, Lorena P.; Barros, Bianca R. S.; Medeiros, Clea E. B.; Pinheiro, Scheila M.; Sousa, Catarina O.] Fed Univ Rio Grande do Norte UFRN, Dept Phys Therapy, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Sousa, Catarina O.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Fisioterapia, Av Sen Salgado Filho 3000, BR-58078970 Natal, RN, Brazil								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000518492600001	57	Article; Article		
J	Monfared, Shamsi Sanati; Lebeau, Jean-Charles; Mason, Justin; Cho, Seong Kwan; Basevitch, Itay; Perry, Inbal; Baur, Daniel Alan; Tenenbaum, Gershon								A Bio-Physio-Psychological Investigation of Athletes' Burnout								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			189	198		10.1080/02701367.2020.1715911			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: Changes in biophysiological markers related to perceived burnout and self-comfort were tested in this study. Method: Forty-two student-athletes from middle and high school grades were evaluated for burnout, salivary cortisol levels, measures of arousal-related physiological markers (i.e., blood volume pulse; BVP), galvanic skin response (GSR), and respiratory rate, and self-comfort variables during the last two weeks of the season. Using self-comfort theory as its conceptual framework, we examined burnout through a conceptual model in which feeling of discomfort with the self was related to biophysiological markers affecting perceived burnout. The proposed model was tested by using a partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM). Results: The main findings indicate that increased self-discomfort is significantly (p < .001) associated with increased salivary cortisol (beta = - 0.189) along with a significant (p = .050) decrease in GSR (beta = - 0.259). Increased salivary cortisol is significantly (p < .001) associated with increased burnout (beta = 0.242). Conclusion: The findings partially support the model and encourage further effort to capture the burnout syndrome through the integration of biological and psychological markers.		[Monfared, Shamsi Sanati] Georgia Inst Technol, Atlanta, GA 30332 USA; [Lebeau, Jean-Charles] Ball State Univ, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Mason, Justin] Univ Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Cho, Seong Kwan] Texas A&M Int Univ, Laredo, TX USA; [Basevitch, Itay] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge, England; [Perry, Inbal] Acad Coll Tel Aviv Yaffo, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Baur, Daniel Alan] Elon Univ, Elon, NC USA; [Tenenbaum, Gershon] Interdisciplinary Ctr IDC, Herzliyya, Israel; [Monfared, Shamsi Sanati] Georgia Inst Technol, Sch Psychol, 831 Marietta St NW, Atlanta, GA 30332 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000525950500001	47	Article; Article		
J	O'Brien, Benjamin; Juhas, Brett; Bienkiewicz, Marta; Buloup, Frank; Bringoux, Lionel; Bourdin, Christophe								Sonification of Golf Putting Gesture Reduces Swing Movement Variability in Novices								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			301	310		10.1080/02701367.2020.1726859			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: To study whether novices can use sonification to enhance golf putting performance and swing movements. Method: Forty participants first performed a series of 2 m and 4 m putts, where swing velocities associated with successful trials were used to calculate their mean velocity profile (MVP). Participants were then divided into four groups with different auditory conditions: static pink noise unrelated to movement, auditory guidance based on personalized MVP, and two sonification strategies that mapped the real-time error between observed and MVP swings to modulate either the stereo display or roughness of the auditory guidance signal. Participants then performed a series of 2 m and 4 m putts with the auditory condition designated to their group. Results: In general our results showed significant correlations between swing movement variability and putting performance for all sonification groups. More specifically, in comparison to the group exposed to static pink noise, participants who were presented auditory guidance significantly reduced the deviation from their average swing movement. In addition, participants exposed to error-based sonification with stereo display modulation significantly lowered their variability in timing swing movements. These results provide further evidence of the benefits of sonification for novices performing complex motor skill tasks. Conclusions: More importantly, our findings suggest participants were able to better use online error-based sonification rather than auditory guidance to reduce variability in the execution and timing of their movements.		[O'Brien, Benjamin; Juhas, Brett; Bienkiewicz, Marta; Buloup, Frank; Bringoux, Lionel; Bourdin, Christophe] Aix Marseille Univ, CNRS, ISM, Marseille, France; [O'Brien, Benjamin] CNRS, UMR 7287, Fac Sport Sci, CP 910,163 Av Luminy, F-13288 Marseille 09, France; [O'Brien, Benjamin] Aix Marseille Univ, CP 910,163 Av Luminy, F-13288 Marseille 09, France								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000517031100001	37	Article; Article		
J	Patel, Rickesh; Nevill, Alan; Smith, Tina; Cloak, Ross; Wyon, Matthew								The influence of birth quartile, maturation, anthropometry and physical performances on player retention: Observations from an elite football academy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	2			121	134	1747954120906507	10.1177/1747954120906507			APR 2020	2020	Understanding the factors that influence player retention within elite youth football can be used to enhance current practices. This study investigated an English Category 1 academy to determine if birth quartile, somatic maturity, anthropometric and physical performance characteristics are associated with player retention across the developmental pathway. Birth dates of 355 elite players from Under 11 (U11) to U21 groups were categorised into birth quartiles, and logistic regression (odds ratio) analysis was used to determine the differences in retention. Multilevel modelling compared somatic maturity, anthropometry, countermovement jump, sprint time (10 and 30 m), agility T-test and Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Level 1 or 2 performance between retained and dropout players. Logistic regression (odds ratio) analysis revealed no significant differences between birth quartiles for the likelihood of being retained across age groups. Multilevel modelling revealed that retained players were typically older, advanced in maturity and superior in body size and physical performances compared to dropouts, with small to medium effect sizes typically observed. This study indicates that within a highly selective cohort of young football players, somatic maturity, anthropometric and physical performance characteristics, but not birth quartile, distinguish individuals that are subsequently retained or dropout in an age group-dependent manner. Youth football organisations should seek to implement multidisciplinary and dynamic talent selection and retention strategies to prevent inappropriate discrimination and loss of talented young players.		[Patel, Rickesh; Nevill, Alan; Smith, Tina; Cloak, Ross; Wyon, Matthew] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Walsall WS1 3BD, W Midlands, England; [Patel, Rickesh] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Walsall WS1 3BD, W Midlands, England								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000516690300001	76	Article; Article		
J	Kovacikova, Zuzana; Zemkova, Erika								The Effect of Agility Training Performed in the Form of Competitive Exercising on Agility Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	3			271	278		10.1080/02701367.2020.1724862			JUL 3 2021	2021	Purpose: Simulated competition as a training tool has a relevant role in enhancement of exercise intensity, motivation and physical enjoyment. Including a competitive component into the agility training could represent another way to improve agility performance significantly more. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of agility training performed in the form of competitive exercising on agility performance. Methods: Twenty-two athletes were randomly assigned to an experimental or a control group. Both groups completed the same eight-week agility training, but only the experimental group performed exercises in the form of head-to-head competition. Prior to and after the training, agility time in the Agility Dual test (performed in pairs in the form of head-to-head competition) and Agility Single test (performed individually) was measured. In addition, simple and two-choice reaction time and speed of step initiation were also assessed. Results: A significant group x time interaction effect was observed for agility time in the Agility Dual test only (p = .002). This effect occurred in favor of experimental group (18%, p < .01). No further significant interactions were detected. Conclusions: Competitive agility training led to significant improvement of agility time under competitive conditions only. This training does not contribute to more pronounced improvements of other reaction and speed abilities.		[Kovacikova, Zuzana] Palacky Univ, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Zemkova, Erika] Comenius Univ, Bratislava, Slovakia; [Zemkova, Erika] Slovak Univ Technol Bratislava, Bratislava, Slovakia; [Zemkova, Erika] Univ Ss Cyril & Methodius, Trnava, Slovakia; [Kovacikova, Zuzana] Palacky Univ, Fac Phys Culture, Dept Nat Sci Kinanthropol, Trida Miru 117, Olomouc 77111, Czech Republic								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000516723200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Geard, David; Rebar, Amanda L.; Dionigi, Rylee A.; Rathbone, Evelyne; Reaburn, Peter								Effects of a 12-Week Cycling Intervention on Successful Aging Measures in Mid-Aged Adults								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			170	181		10.1080/02701367.2020.1724861			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: To compare the effect of 12-weeks of cycling training and competition versus recreational cycling on successful aging across physical, psychological, cognitive, and social functioning domains in mid-aged adults. Methods: Recreational cyclists were randomly assigned to an intervention (n = 13, M age = 47.18 years) and comparison (n = 13, M age = 46.91 years) group. Analysis of Covariance was used on self-reported pre-post data to determine changes across time and differences between groups on outcomes. Results: The intervention group scored higher on the role limitation due to physical problems measure of physical functioning (p = .045) and the social activity measure of social functioning (p = .008) with large effect sizes (eta(2)(p) > .14). The remaining physical, psychological, cognitive, and social functioning measures were not significantly different (p > .05) between groups with small to medium effect sizes (eta(2)(p) > .01 to <= .06). Conclusion: Cycling training and competition promotes better physical and social functioning than recreational cycling. This finding indicates that an intervention that incorporates the training and competition aspects of sport may promote positive outcomes that are above and beyond those that can be gained from participation in recreational physical activity. Objective measurements on larger samples across a broader range of sports are required to confirm and extend these findings.		[Geard, David; Rebar, Amanda L.; Reaburn, Peter] Cent Queensland Univ, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Dionigi, Rylee A.] Charles Sturt Univ, Bathurst, NSW, Australia; [Rathbone, Evelyne] Bond Univ, Gold Coast, Australia; [Reaburn, Peter] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Geard, David] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000516723700001	61	Article; Article		
J	Izquierdo-Renau, Marta; Queralt, Ana; Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto; Perez-Soriano, Pedro								Impact Acceleration During Prolonged Running While Wearing Conventional Versus Minimalist Shoes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			182	188		10.1080/02701367.2020.1726271			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: In recent years a sub-group of minimalist runners have emerged who aim to perform physical exercise more naturally in an attempt to reduce running-related injuries. Here we aimed to determine the effect that running with minimalist footwear in a prolonged run has on foot-impact accelerations. Method: Seventeen runners ran with minimalist and conventional shoes (MS and CS, respectively) in two separate sessions; the participants had experience with both footwear types. We measured the length and frequency of each stride, as well as the tibial and head impact acceleration every 5 minutes during a prolonged run (30 minutes at 80% of each individual's maximum aerobic speed). Results: There were significant differences in the acceleration rate in the tibia (CS: 516.1 +/- 238.47 G/s and MS: 786.6 +/- 238.45 G/s; p = .009) and head (CS: 73.3 +/- 23.65 G/s and MS: 120.7 +/- 44.13 G/s; p = .000). Our data indicate that the type of footwear increased the stride frequency and decreased length and that the impact acceleration is increased with MS compared to CS (p < .05 in both cases). However, the effect of prolonged run was not significantly different between CS and MS (p < .05). Conclusions: The peak tibia acceleration and headtibia acceleration rate indicate that the use of MS may be related to a higher risk of injury. These differences remained independently of the runners' fatigue state.		[Izquierdo-Renau, Marta; Queralt, Ana; Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto; Perez-Soriano, Pedro] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Izquierdo-Renau, Marta] Univ Valencia, Univ Sch Nursing & Chiropody, Dept Nursing, C Jaume Roig S-N, Valencia 46010, Spain								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000516723400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Vincent, Grace E.; Onay, Zozan; Scanlan, Aaron T.; Elsworthy, Nathan; Pitchford, Nathan W.; Lastella, Michele								The Impact of Self-Reported Sleep Quantity on Perceived Decision-Making in Sports Officials during a Competitive Season								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			156	169		10.1080/02701367.2020.1722309			JAN 2 2021	2021	Objectives: While sleep research in athletes is extensive, no research has investigated sleep in sports officials during a competitive season. This study explored the (a) self-reported quantity and quality of sleep obtained by sports officials according to the time of competition (day or evening) and (b) impact of reduced sleep on perceived decision-making ability. Design: Sports officials (n = 371) from various sporting codes completed an online questionnaire that evaluated self-reported sleep quantity and quality on habitual nights, before competition, and after competition, as well as perceived decision-making constructs. Results: With sleep restriction defined as less than 7 h of sleep, mixed-effects logistic regression revealed that the estimated probability of reporting reduced sleep quantity increased (p< .05) on habitual nights (0.58), before competition (0.48), and after competition (0.56). The estimated probability of reporting poor sleep quality was 0.01-0.04 across all nights. When considering time of competition (day or evening), reduced sleep quantity was experienced after evening competition (odds ratio [OR] = 3.33, p < .05), while poorer sleep quality (p< .05) was experienced following day (OR = 2.1) and evening (OR = 12.46) competition compared to habitual nights. Furthermore, the impact of reduced sleep on perceived decision-making constructs was negative, with the estimated probability of reporting impaired perceived decision-making between 0.13 and 0.21. Conclusion: Overall, sports officials are vulnerable to reduced quantity and quality of sleep before and after competition, with impaired perceived decision-making ability following nights of less than average sleep.		[Vincent, Grace E.; Onay, Zozan; Scanlan, Aaron T.; Elsworthy, Nathan; Lastella, Michele] Cent Queensland Univ, Wayville, SA, Australia; [Pitchford, Nathan W.] Univ Tasmania, Hobart, Tas, Australia; [Vincent, Grace E.] Cent Queensland Univ, Appleton Inst, 44 Greenhill Rd, Wayville, SA 5034, Australia								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000516723300001	49	Article; Article		
J	Yu, Qian; Gai, Yang; Gong, Bingnan; Gomez, Miguel-Angel; Cui, Yixiong								Using passing network measures to determine the performance difference between foreign and domestic outfielder players in Chinese Football Super League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	3			398	404	1747954120905726	10.1177/1747954120905726			JUN 2020	2020	The study was aimed to identify the passing performances related to social network between domestic (Chinese) and foreign (non-Chinese) players that contributed to the offensive play according to playing positions in Chinese Football Super League. Data were collected from all 16 teams, with 63,446 passes from 8885 player observations of 346 unique players (258 domestic and 88 foreign) being filtered. Nine network metrics were adopted to assess the passing performance between two player groups. The results revealed that foreign players, especially midfielders and forwards, had increased values than domestic counterparts in passes in, indegree, stress, partner and betweenness centrality (standardised Cohen's d range: 0.18-0.62; inference: possibly to most likely). Moreover, foreign midfielders also demonstrated higher values in passes out, outdegree and closeness centrality (0.30-0.56; likely to most likely). The analysis of passing performance allows for a better understanding of team's attacking properties and highlights the prominent role foreign players act within the build of attack. It is possible that recruiting high-level overseas players contribute to Chinese teams' goal scoring performance, but coaching staffs and team managers should take cautions in terms of the degree of reliance on them, as the development of domestic midfielders and forwards would be compromised.		[Yu, Qian] Yangzhou Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Yangzhou, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Gai, Yang; Gong, Bingnan; Gomez, Miguel-Angel] Tech Univ Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Gong, Bingnan] Beijing Sport Univ, China Football Coll, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Cui, Yixiong] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Engn, AI Sports Engn Lab, Informat Rd 48, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Cui, Yixiong] Beijing Sport Univ, Sch Sports Engn, AI Sports Engn Lab, Informat Rd 48, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								30							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000514773700001	37	Article; Article		
J	Cohen, Alysia J.; Bovbjerg, Viktor; Wegis, Heidi								Does coaching experience and coaching efficacy of untrained volunteer youth sport coaches influence children's moderate-to-vigorous physical activity?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	2			135	145	1747954120906675	10.1177/1747954120906675			APR 2020	2020	Describe physical activity levels among youth sport participants as influenced by coaching experience and coaching efficacy and describe the proportion of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) per sport contextual factor by years of coaching experience and coaching efficacy. Nonexperimental observational study. Physical activity levels of youth (n = 146) was measured via accelerometer. Contextual factors of practice and physical activity were obtained via direct observation. Coaching experience and efficacy of volunteer coaches (n = 26) were measured by a demographics questionnaire and the coaching efficacy scale. Practices averaged 69.81 min (SD = 13.12) with 39.7% (SE = 1.7) spent in sedentary behavior, 32.2% (SE = 1.5) in MVPA, and 20.6% (SE = 1.2) in vigorous-intensity physical activity (VPA). Spearman-rho coefficients suggest no significant relationship between coaching efficacy and %MVPA (r(s) = 0.337, p =0 .092) or %VPA (r(s) = 0.200, p = 0.327). Repeated-measures analysis of variance found a significant relationship between direct observation MVPA and practice contextual factors, but not by coaching experience or efficacy. Multiple regression found no significance of either variable in predicting MVPA. Coaching experience and perceived coaching efficacy do not appear to influence MVPA behavior during sport practices; however, it is unclear whether coach education training in this area would. Emphasis on implementing coach training standards to enhance coaches' confidence to motivate children to be more physically active during practice and opportunities to do so, may improve youth health through physical activity.		[Cohen, Alysia J.] Weber State Univ, Dept Athlet Training, 3992 Cent Campus Dr,Dept 3504, Ogden, UT 84408 USA; [Bovbjerg, Viktor; Wegis, Heidi] Oregon State Univ, Sch Biol & Hlth Sci, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Cohen, Alysia J.] Weber State Univ, Dept Athlet Training, 3992 Cent Campus Dr,Dept 3504, Ogden, UT 84408 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000514523000001	54	Article; Article		
J	Vasconcellos, Fabricio; Cunha, Felipe A.; Gonet, Deborah T.; Farinatti, Paulo T. V.								Does Recreational Soccer Change Metabolic Syndrome Status in Obese Adolescents? A Pilot Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			91	99		10.1080/02701367.2019.1711007			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: To evaluate whether a soccer program (RSP) might lower risk factors related to metabolic syndrome (MetS) in obese adolescents. Methods: A 12-week randomized controlled trial [RSP: n = 6 (2 girls), age = 13.9 +/- 1.6 yr, body mass index = 30.5 +/- 2.1 kg/m(2); Control: n = 7 (2 girls); age = 14.7 +/- 2.3 yr, body mass index: 30.8 +/- 3.1 kg/m(2)] was conducted. Participants underwent anthropometric, body fractioning, blood pressure, lipid profile, and glucose tolerance assessments at baseline and post-intervention. MetS status was determined based on waist circumference and at least two additional criteria: high blood pressure, hypertriglyceridemia, dyslipidemia, and hyperglycemia. RSP included eutrophic and overweight adolescents and consisted of small-sided games (85 +/- 4% maximal heart rate) performed three times/week. Results: High-density lipoprotein increased [(HDL) increment 15.5 +/- 5.2 mg center dot dL(-1); p = .01] and triglycerides lowered [(TG) increment -34.7 +/- 7.1 mg center dot dL(-1); p = .02] after RSP intervention. Between-group differences were also detected for changes in HDL ( increment 13.0 +/- 6.1 mg center dot dL(-1); p = .04) and TG ( increment -47.1 +/- 7.7 mg center dot dL(-1); p = .05). The presence of MetS lowered in RSP (5 in 6 participants; p = .02), but not Control (1 in 7 participants; p = .32). Conclusion: A 12-week RSP was effective to reduce MetS risk factors and status in obese adolescents.		[Vasconcellos, Fabricio; Cunha, Felipe A.; Gonet, Deborah T.; Farinatti, Paulo T. V.] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Farinatti, Paulo T. V.] Univ Salgado de Oliveira, Sao Goncalo, Brazil; [Farinatti, Paulo T. V.] Univ Estado Rio De Janeiro, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Lab Phys Act & Hlth Promot, Rua Sao Francisco Xavier 524 Sala 8121F Maracana, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000515206400001	40	Article; Article		
J	Weigelt, Matthias; Memmert, Daniel								The Mental Rotation Ability of Expert Basketball Players: Identifying On-Court Plays								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			137	145		10.1080/02701367.2020.1713289			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: The purpose was (1) to test a new version of a mental rotation task (MRT), which assesses mental rotation abilities of men and women for sport-specific items, and (2) to investigate potential differences in MRT performance, which are based on athletic expertise. Methods: Eighty-eight basketball experts (42 females) and 123 novices (64 females) were tested with a paper-and-pencil version of the "Mental Rotation Task-Basketball (MRT-BB)", which is similar to the original MRT. Instead of three-dimensional cubes, six different basketball plays were used as stimuli. The criterion stimulus of the 24 items was always displayed in an upright orientation (basket on top), located on the left side of the sheet. In addition, two "correct" alternatives (one stimulus rotated by 90 degrees to the left or right and one by 180 degrees) and two "incorrect" alternatives (either rotated mirror-images of the criterion stimulus or rotated images of a different play) were displayed in different positions of the same row. The task was to identify the "correct" alternatives. Results: Results demonstrated (a) an effect of sex, with more items solved for male participants as compared to female participants, and (b) an effect of expertise, with better performance of expert players than of novices. Conclusions: Male and female basketball experts show better mental rotation skills for sport-specific stimulus material. The MRT-BB extends standard tests of mental rotation to sport-specific stimulus material and can be used to test the sport-specific mental rotation skills of basketball players.		[Weigelt, Matthias] Univ Paderborn, Paderborn, Germany; [Memmert, Daniel] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Weigelt, Matthias] Univ Paderborn, Dept Sport & Hlth, Warburger Str 100, D-33098 Paderborn, Germany								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000513967600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Li, Weidong; Xie, Xiuye; Li, Yilin; Chen, Ruth; Shen, Hejun								Twenty Years of Intervention Research in School Physical Education in the <i>JTPE</i> and <i>RQES</i>								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			34	42		10.1080/02701367.2019.1708236			JAN 2 2021	2021	Background/Purpose: The purpose of the present study was to review intervention studies in school physical education, with a goal of identifying the gaps and future trends of intervention research in the field of physical education. Methods: A total of 71 quantitative experimental studies were identified by manually examining all the articles published in the Journal of Teaching in Physical Education and Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport from January 1998 to December 2018. All the studies were coded using a coding template. The interrater reliability among three coders exceeded 85%. The frequencies and percentages for each category were calculated as appropriate. Results: Eighty-five percent of experimental studies were guided by a theoretical framework. Interventions used various types of research designs. A variety of dependent variables were measured with the majority of studies focusing on student motivation and psychomotor skills. The intervention length ranged from 5 min to 2 years. Fifty-six percent of studies reported effect sizes. The reported types and strength of effect size varied. Forty-nine percent of them reported an intervention fidelity check. Conclusion: A limited number of experimental studies had been conducted from 1998 to 2018. The rigor of these experimental studies needs significant improvement. More experimental studies with a randomized controlled trial design are needed.		[Li, Weidong; Li, Yilin; Chen, Ruth] Ohio State Univ, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Xie, Xiuye] Western Michigan Univ, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Shen, Hejun] Nanjing Sport Inst, Linggusi Rd 8, Nanjing 21004, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Shen, Hejun] Nanjing Sport Inst, Linggusi Rd 8, Nanjing 21004, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000513967900001	27	Article; Article		
J	Pinoniemi, Bridget K.; Tomkinson, Grant R.; Walch, Tanis J.; Roemmich, James N.; Fitzgerald, John S.								Temporal Trends in the Standing Broad Jump Performance of United States Children and Adolescents								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			71	81		10.1080/02701367.2019.1710446			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: To estimate temporal trends in broad jump performance for United States youth, a marker of muscular fitness and health. Method: Electronic databases, topical systematic reviews, and personal libraries were systematically searched for studies reporting descriptive standing broad jump data for apparently healthy United States youth (age 10-17 years). Temporal trends at the sex-age level were estimated using sample-weighted regression models associating the year of testing to mean jump performance, with national trends standardized to the year 1985 using a post-stratified population-weighting procedure. Results: Collectively, there was a small increase of 12.6 cm (95%CI: 12.5 to 12.7) or 7.9% (95%CI: 7.1 to 8.6) in 65,527 United States youth between 1911 and 1990. Increases were greater for girls (change in means [95% CI]: 17.1 cm [16.9 to 17.3]; 11.4% [10.7 to 12.2]) compared to boys (change in means [95% CI]: 8.5 cm [8.3 to 8.7]; 4.6% [3.8 to 5.4]), but did not differ between children (10-12 years) and adolescents (13-17 years). Increases in broad jump performance were not always uniform across time, with steady and progressive increases observed for boys and children, respectively, and a diminishing rate of increase observed for girls and adolescents. Conclusions: Muscular fitness is a good marker of health, so greater broad jump performance from 1911 to 1990 may reflect corresponding changes in health. Routine assessment of broad jump performance may be useful to monitor trends in health and muscular fitness of United States youth due to its practicality, scalability, and predictive utility.		[Pinoniemi, Bridget K.; Tomkinson, Grant R.; Walch, Tanis J.; Fitzgerald, John S.] Univ North Dakota, Grand Forks, ND USA; [Tomkinson, Grant R.] Univ South Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Roemmich, James N.] Grand Forks Human Nutr Res Ctr, Grand Forks, ND USA; [Fitzgerald, John S.] Univ North Dakota, Dept Educ Hlth & Behav Studies, 2751 2nd Ave North,Stop 8235, Grand Forks, ND 58202 USA								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000513966300001	65	Article; Article		
J	DeFroda, Steven F.; Quinn, Matthew; Yang, Daniel S.; Daniels, Alan H.; Owens, Brett D.								The effects of methylphenidate on stress fractures in patients' ages 10-29: a national database study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	4			412	416		10.1080/00913847.2020.1725400			OCT 1 2020	2020	Objectives: Current literature is divided on the effect of methylphenidate (MP) on stress fracture development and if this medication increases fracture, or is actually protective for it. This study further investigates this effect utilizing a large national database. We hypothesized that individuals on MP would have a reduced risk of SF compared against controls. Methods: This study utilized the Humana insurance data set within the PearlDiver Patient Records Database (PearlDiver Inc, Fort Wayne, Indiana). All patients' ages 10-29 were included and patients were identified without ADHD, with ADHD not on MP, and with ADHD on MP. ADHD and stress fracture diagnoses were identified by International Classification of Disease, Tenth Revision codes. Bivariate analysis of stress fracture occurrence was conducted using chi-square analysis. Multivariate logistic regression was used to calculate odds ratios, controlling for age, sex, race, and Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI). Statistical analysis was performed using the PearlDiver software, which runs R, Version 1.1.442. An alpha value of .05 was set as the level of significance. Results: The study included 29,590 patients on MP and 831,439 patients not on MP from ages 10-29. The highest proportions of patients who filled MP prescriptions were in the age range 10 to 14 years old (51.2%), followed by 15 to 19 (41.0%). Patients rarely continue MP from years 20 to 24 (16.5%) or 25 to 29 (9.6%). ADHD patients on MP had the lowest calculated risk of stress fractures (0.45%) compared to patients without ADHD (0.54%) and ADHD patients not on methylphenidate (0.58%). In all three patient groups, most stress fractures occurred in 15 to 19-year olds. Patients with ADHD on MP conferred lower odds of stress fracture than ADHD patients not on MP and patients without ADHD (aOR = 0.64, p = 0.0002). The older age groups 20-24 and 25-29 involved less risk of stress fracture compared to the youngest age group 10-14 (p < 0.0001; p < 0.0001), as well as did male gender (p < 0.0001). Conclusions: This database-based study of the effect of MP on SF adds to the growing body of literature providing evidence that MP may offer protective benefit for stress fracture.		[DeFroda, Steven F.; Quinn, Matthew; Yang, Daniel S.; Daniels, Alan H.; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [Quinn, Matthew] Brown Univ, Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000513791500001	9	Article; Article		
J	Enes, Alysson; Oneda, Gustavo; Alves, Danilo L.; Palumbo, Diogo de P.; Cruz, Ramon; Moiano Junior, Jose V. M.; Novack, Luiz F.; Osiecki, Raul								Determinant Factors of the Match-Based Internal Load in Elite Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			63	70		10.1080/02701367.2019.1710445			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: To analyze the contribution of physical measures and external load in the match-based internal load of elite soccer players. Methods: Twenty-three elite soccer players (n = 23, age 26.69 +/- 3.93 years, body mass 78.04 +/- 5.03 kg, height 178.04 +/- 5.19 cm, body fat 10.98 +/- 1.25%) from a first division soccer team of the Brazilian Championship were evaluated first with anthropometric and physical measures (flexibility and muscle power of lower limbs), and after 24 hrs they were asked to perform an incremental treadmill test (VO(2)max and ventilatory thresholds). Subsequently, athletes were monitored for 6 weeks during nine official matches of a regional championship. On match days, the external load data (e.g., player load) were collected by triaxial accelerometers with GPS systems and post 30 min after the end of the match the internal load was assessed with the Session Rating of Perceived Exertion method (Session-RPE). Results: Our main findings showed significant contributions of the Player Load (r = .62, p < .001; 42.3%) and Anaerobic Threshold (r = - .199, p = .05, 17%) for the predictive model of Session-RPE. Conclusions: Physical measures and external load have a significant influence on the internal load in elite soccer players. Our findings suggest that sport scientists can use the Session-RPE as a low-cost method for prescribing and monitoring training loads, by the influence of physical measures and external load on the match-based internal load, in order to optimize athletes' performance.		[Enes, Alysson; Oneda, Gustavo; Alves, Danilo L.; Palumbo, Diogo de P.; Moiano Junior, Jose V. M.; Novack, Luiz F.; Osiecki, Raul] Fed Univ Parana UFPR, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Cruz, Ramon] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Enes, Alysson] Univ Fed Parana, Ctr Study Phys Performance, Rua Coracao de Maria 92, BR-80210132 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Enes, Alysson] Univ Fed Parana, Dept Phys Educ, Rua Coracao de Maria 92, BR-80210132 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000513117800001	39	Article; Article		
J	Djuric, Sasa; Cuk, Ivan								Sensitivity of the novel two-point force-velocity model: an assessment of leg muscle mechanical capacities								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	7			796	809		10.1080/14763141.2019.1691641			AUG 9 2022	2022	The recently proposed two-point force-velocity (F-V) model requires further evaluation in order to develop into a simple tool for muscle mechanical capacities assessment. Therefore, the first aim of this study was to assess the concurrent validity of the proposed model. The second aim of this study was to assess the sensitivity of the proposed model concerning participants of different levels of physical fitness when performing different dynamic tasks. Female elite volleyball players (N = 10; age 22 +/- 2 years) and female physical education students (N = 10; age 22 +/- 2 years) were tested on maximum countermovement jumps (CMJ) and 6 s maximal cycling sprint (MCS), where manipulation of loads provided a range of F and V data. The assessed F-V relationships were valid in comparison with the standard model. Moreover, the concurrent validity of the maximum force parameter (F-0) was high for MCS (r >= 0.89) and moderate to low for CMJ (r = 0.43). Sensitivity analysis revealed significant differences between F-0 in both leg tests (p < 0.04), along with maximum power parameter in CMJ (p = 0.034) between the groups. The proposed model could provide sport practitioners with a straightforward and very effective tool for assessing muscle mechanical capacities.		[Djuric, Sasa] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Inst Kinesiol, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Cuk, Ivan] Singidunum Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports Management, Belgrade, Serbia; [Cuk, Ivan] Singidunum Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports Management, Belgrade, Serbia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512870800001	31	Article; Article		
J	Gomes, Joao; Neto, Tiago; Vaz, Joao R.; Schoenfeld, Brad Jon; Freitas, Sandro R.								Is there a relationship between back squat depth, ankle flexibility, and Achilles tendon stiffness?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	7			782	795		10.1080/14763141.2019.1690569			AUG 9 2022	2022	This study investigated the relationship between back squat depth capacity, ankle dorsiflexion resistance to stretch and maximal range of motion (ROM), and Achilles tendon stiffness of healthy individuals (n = 20). Squat depth capacity was assessed with 2D kinematic analysis. Ankle dorsiflexion maximal ROM was assessed using a smartphone digital goniometry (lunge test) and isokinetic dynamometry (prone test). Ankle dorsiflexion resistance to stretch was assessed during the prone test. Achilles tendon stiffness was estimated at rest [using shear wave elastography (stiffness-SWE)] and during isometric contraction through tendon force-length relationship (using B-mode sonography). Squat depth was associated only with ankle dorsiflexion ROM in the lunge test (r = 0.69, p = 0.001). Ankle dorsiflexion ROM in the lunge test was associated with the ankle resistance to stretch (r = 0.46, p = 0.050) and Achilles tendon stiffness-SWE (r = 0.62, p = 0.005); and it was the only variable different between individuals with low and high squat depth capacity (p = 0.014). No other statistically significant associations were found. In conclusion, back squat depth is associated with ankle dorsiflexion ROM when the knee is flexed, without evident influence of global joint and Achilles tendon mechanical properties.		[Gomes, Joao; Vaz, Joao R.; Freitas, Sandro R.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Interdisciplinary Ctr Study Human Performance, Lisbon, Portugal; [Neto, Tiago] LUNEX Int Univ Hlth Exercise & Sports, Dept Physiotherapy, Differdange, Luxembourg; [Schoenfeld, Brad Jon] CUNY Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY USA; [Freitas, Sandro R.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Interdisciplinary Ctr Study Human Performance, Lisbon, Portugal								20							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512870700001	35	Article; Article		
J	Aguinaldo, Arnel L.; Escamilla, Rafael F.								Induced power analysis of sequential body motion and elbow valgus load during baseball pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	7			824	836		10.1080/14763141.2019.1696881			AUG 9 2022	2022	The flow of mechanical energy of segmental motion during baseball pitching is poorly understood, particularly in relation to the valgus torque at the elbow which is prone to pitching-related injuries. This study employed an induced power analysis to determine the components of muscle and velocity-dependent torques that contribute to the power of throwing arm segments when the elbow is under valgus load during the arm-cocking phase of pitching. The 3D throwing kinematics and kinetics of 10 adult pitchers were included in this analysis. Pitchers threw with a maximum elbow valgus torque of 73 +/- 20 N center dot m. The trunk flexion and rotation components of the velocity-dependent torque were the greatest contributors to the work of the forearm at -0.53 +/- 0.22 J/kg and -0.43 +/- 0.21 J/kg, respectively. Approximately 86% of the total energy transferred through the elbow by the velocity-dependent torque was due to trunk motion, which appears to drive the power of accelerating the throwing elbow in valgus. These results support the importance of trunk motion as a key component in the development of elbow torque and ball velocity. Therefore, this study has practical implications for baseball pitchers seeking to minimise injury risk while improving performance.		[Aguinaldo, Arnel L.] Point Loma Nazarene Univ, Dept Kinesiol, San Diego, CA 92106 USA; [Escamilla, Rafael F.] Calif State Univ Sacramento, Dept Phys Therapy, Sacramento, CA 95819 USA; [Aguinaldo, Arnel L.] Point Loma Nazarene Univ, Dept Kinesiol, San Diego, CA 92106 USA								28							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512870500001	40	Article; Article		
J	Bertuzzi, Romulo; Silva-Cavalcante, Marcos D.; Couto, Patricia Guimaraes; Azevedo, Rafael de Almeida; Coelho, Daniel Boari; Zagatto, Alessandro; Lima-Silva, Adriano Eduardo; Millet, Guillaume Y.								Prior Upper Body Exercise Impairs 4-km Cycling Time-Trial Performance Without Altering Neuromuscular Function								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				92	1			52	62		10.1080/02701367.2019.1708844			JAN 2 2021	2021	Purpose: This study investigated the effects of previous exhaustive upper body exercise on performance and neuromuscular fatigue following a 4-km cycling time-trial (4-km TT). Methods: Eight recreational cyclists performed a 4-km TT with (ARM(PRE)) or without (CONTR) a previous arm-crank maximal incremental test. In each experimental session, neuromuscular fatigue was evaluated with a series of electrically evoked and maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MVC). Oxygen uptake (O-2), heart rate, electromyographic muscle activity (EMG(RMS)) and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) were also recorded throughout the 4-km TT. Results: The average power output during the 4-km TT was reduced (P = .027) for the ARM(PRE) (299 +/- 59 W) group, compared with CONTR (310 +/- 59 W) and overall performance in 4-km TT was impaired (P = .021) in ARM(PRE) (382 +/- 28 s) compared with CONTR (376 +/- 27 s). The decrease observed in MVC (P = .033) and potentiated peak twitch force (P = .004) at post-TT were similar between the ARM(PRE) and CONTR conditions (P = .739 and P = .493, respectively). There was no (P = .619) change in voluntary activation at post-TT between conditions. O-2, EMG(RMS) and RPE measured throughout the 4-km TT were not significantly different between the conditions (P = .558, P = .558 and P = .940, respectively). The rate of RPE change relative to power output average and heart rate was higher (P = .030 and P = .013, respectively) in ARM(PRE) (0.031 +/- 0.018 AU/W and 168 +/- 8 bpm) than CONTR (0.022 +/- 0.010 AU/W and 161 +/- 7 bpm). Conclusion: These results suggest that impaired performance in ARM(PRE) was mostly due to pronounced perception of effort rather than neuromuscular fatigue.		[Bertuzzi, Romulo; Silva-Cavalcante, Marcos D.; Couto, Patricia Guimaraes; Azevedo, Rafael de Almeida] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Silva-Cavalcante, Marcos D.; Lima-Silva, Adriano Eduardo] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Coelho, Daniel Boari] Fed Univ ABC, Santo Andre, SP, Brazil; [Zagatto, Alessandro] Paulista State Univ UNESP, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lima-Silva, Adriano Eduardo] Technol Fed Univ Parana, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Millet, Guillaume Y.] Univ Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Bertuzzi, Romulo] Univ Sao Paulo, Dept Sport, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Ave Prof Mello de Moraes,65 Univ City, BR-05508030 Sao Paulo, Brazil								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512944600001	33	Article; Article		
J	Kanthack, Thiago Ferreira Dias; Guillot, Aymeric; Clemencon, Michel; Debarnot, Ursula; Di Rienzo, Franck								Effect of Physical Fatigue Elicited by Continuous and Intermittent Exercise on Motor Imagery Ability								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			525	538		10.1080/02701367.2019.1691709			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The ability to perform motor imagery (MI) might be impaired by the physical fatigue elicited during training. Interestingly, there is also theoretical support for a more limited influence of fatigue in the existing literature. Method: We evaluated MI ability before and after two exercise protocols: (i) a continuous exercise of 20 min performed on a cycle ergometer at 80% of the secondary ventilatory threshold (Continuous exercise), and (ii) an intermittent exercise of 20 min involving sprints at maximal intensity performed with regular intervals (Intermittent exercise). MI ability evaluations were performed using validated behavioral (mental chronometry) and psychometric (subjective reports) methods. MI ability evaluations included mental rehearsal of a motor sequence which involved the main effectors of the exercise protocols (walking), and mental rehearsal of a motor task which did not involve the main somatic effectors of the exercise protocols (pointing movements with the upper limbs). Results: Mental chronometry showed that MI ability was degraded only after Intermittent exercise, while self-report measures of MI vividness revealed that MI ability was primarily impaired during MI of the walking task. Conclusions: Present results suggest that Intermittent exercise engaging anaerobic processes of energy expenditure, but not Continuous exercise engaging aerobic processes of energy expenditure, impaired MI ability. Findings are discussed in relation to the internal models theory of motor simulation, specifically changes in current state of the motor system under the fatigued state-affecting motor predictions. Present findings may contribute to successful applications of MI training in sports and rehabilitation.		[Kanthack, Thiago Ferreira Dias; Guillot, Aymeric; Clemencon, Michel; Debarnot, Ursula; Di Rienzo, Franck] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Univ Lyon, Villeurbanne, France; [Kanthack, Thiago Ferreira Dias] CAPES Fdn, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Guillot, Aymeric] Inst Univ France, Paris, France; [Clemencon, Michel] Univ Rouen, Normandie Univ, Rouen, France; [Di Rienzo, Franck] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, UFR STAPS, EA 7424, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite, 27-29 Blvd 11 Novembre 1918, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512913900001	71	Article; Article		
J	Penailillo, Luis; Santander, Miguel; Zbinden-Foncea, Hermann; Jannas-Vela, Sebastian								Metabolic Demand and Indirect Markers of Muscle Damage after Eccentric Cycling with Blood Flow Restriction								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			705	712		10.1080/02701367.2019.1699234			OCT 1 2020	2020	Purpose: To compare the effects of a single bout of eccentric cycling (ECC) and eccentric cycling with blood flow restriction (ECCBFR) on the changes in cardio-metabolic demand and indirect markers of muscle damage in healthy men. Method: Twenty-one young men (24.0 +/- 3.2 y) were randomly allocated in two groups to perform a 30-min eccentric cycling bout with or without blood flow restriction. Oxygen consumption, heart rate, rate of perceived exertion and mean arterial blood pressure were monitored during cycling. Blood lactate was measured before and after cycling. Maximal voluntary isometric knee extensor strength and muscle damage were measured before, immediately after and 1-4 days after each eccentric cycling bout. Results: Oxygen consumption, heart rate, rate of perceived exertion and mean arterial blood pressure were similar between bouts. Blood lactate concentrations increased in both groups (p < .01), with ECCBFR showing 60% greater blood lactate concentration than eccentric cycling (p < .01). Maximal voluntary isometric knee extensor strength decreased 19-7% until 48 h and decreased 16-7% until 72 h after ECC and ECCBFR, respectively. Muscle soreness and pressure pain threshold remained elevated until 72 h after ECC and until 96 h after ECCBFR. Conclusion: These results show that ECCBFR induces similar cardiovascular stress, greater lactate production and longer time to recover than ECC alone. Thus, BFR can be safely implemented with eccentric cycling.		[Penailillo, Luis; Santander, Miguel; Zbinden-Foncea, Hermann; Jannas-Vela, Sebastian] Univ Finis Terrae, Santiago, Chile; [Jannas-Vela, Sebastian] Univ Finis Terrae, Sch Kinesiol, 1509 Pedro de Valdivia Av, Santiago, Chile								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512915100001	25	Article; Article		
J	Milanovic, Zoran; Rada, Ante; Erceg, Marko; Trajkovic, Nebojsa; Stojanovic, Emilija; Lesnik, Blaz; Krustrup, Peter; Randers, Morten B.								Reproducibility of Internal and External Training Load During Recreational Small-Sided Football Games								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			676	681		10.1080/02701367.2019.1697794			OCT 1 2020	2020	Purpose: The aim of this study was to evaluate the reproducibility of internal and external load parameters during recreational small-sided football games. Methods: Ten healthy untrained young adult males (age: 20.2 +/- 1.9 yr, body mass: 69.2 +/- 6.3 kg, height: 175.4 +/- 5.9 cm, body fat: 19.7 +/- 5.2%) performed two 2 x 20-min sessions of four versus four plus goalkeeper small-sided games (SSG) 1 week apart on a standard, outdoor, 40 x 20-m artificial grass pitch. Twelve external (total distance, peak speed, player load, work rate and distance covered at 0-2, 2-5, 5-7, 7-9, 9-13, 13-16, 16-20 and >20 km/h) and seven internal load parameters (heart rate and time spent in different heart rate zones [<70%, 71-80%, 81-90%, 91-95%, 96-100%, 91-100%]) were measured. Reproducibility was reported as intraclass coefficient correlation (ICC), the coefficient of variation (CV), and the typical error of measurements (TE). Results: No statistical differences (p> .05) between sessions were found in any measures. Minimal test-retest variability was noted for mean and peak heart rate (HRpeak) relative to HRpeak with CV values of 3.4% and 2.6%, respectively. Acceptable variability (CV<10%) was demonstrated for total distance covered, distance covered at 2-5 km/h, and peak speed. Distance covered in different speed zones (CV = 15.7-47.6%) and percentage of time in each HR zone showed large-to-very large variability (CV = 36.2-128.4%). Mean heart rate (HRmean), HRpeak, distance covered at 5-7, 13-16 and >20 km/h, and percentage of time above 95%HRpeak were the most reliable variables (ICC = 0.74-0.79), followed by total distance covered, peak speed, and percentage of time at 80-90% HRpeak (ICC = 0.39-0.67). The lowest reliability was observed for distance covered in the moderate speed zones 7-9 km/h (ICC = 0.12) and 9-13 km/h (ICC = -0.09), and percentage of time at 70-80% HRpeak (ICC = -0.01). Conclusions: Small-sided games can be used when planning training-induced exercise responses in relation to total distance covered, peak speed, and mean heart rate. This evidence further supports the use of SSG when organizing recreational football training, in young adult males, with the purpose of improving health profile due to the high reproducibility of HRmean and total distance covered.		[Milanovic, Zoran; Stojanovic, Emilija] Univ Nis, Nish, Serbia; [Milanovic, Zoran] Inst Kinesiol Res, Nish, Serbia; [Rada, Ante; Erceg, Marko] Univ Split, Split, Croatia; [Trajkovic, Nebojsa] Univ Novi Sad, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Lesnik, Blaz] Univ Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Krustrup, Peter; Randers, Morten B.] Univ Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark; [Krustrup, Peter] Univ Exeter, Exeter, Devon, England; [Krustrup, Peter] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Randers, Morten B.] UiT Arctic Univ Norway, Tromso, Norway; [Milanovic, Zoran] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Carnojeviceva 10a, Nish 18000, Serbia								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512912800001	24	Article; Article		
J	Legrand, Fabien; Silete, Gwendoline; Schiffler, Frederic								Internalized Media-Promoted Body Ideals only Marginally Moderate the Effects of Exercise on Self-Esteem, Body Image Satisfaction, and Physical Self-perceptions								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			713	719		10.1080/02701367.2019.1706713			OCT 1 2020	2020	Objective: To examine the moderating effect of internalized media messages on ideal body shape and lifestyle in the relationships between physical exercise, self-esteem, physical self-perceptions, and body image satisfaction. Design: pre-test/posttest control group experimental design. Methods: 46 inactive women (mean age = 21.4 +/- 2.1 years-old) volunteered to participate in this study and were randomly assigned to Exercise (n = 23) or Wait-list (n = 23) groups. The Exercise group participated in two 50 minutes long exercise sessions per week for six weeks. During this period women in the Wait-list group did not participate in any regular physical activity. The French version of the Physical Self-Perception Profile (ISP-25) and the Body Image Assessment Scale (BIAS-BD) were administered to participants before and after intervention. In addition, the Sociocultural Attitudes Toward Appearance Questionnaire (SATAQ) was completed to assess participants' level of internalization of media standards. Results and Discussion: Women in the Exercise group improved more in outcomes than those in the Wait-list group. Effects were only marginally moderated by levels of media internalization. Potential explanations for these findings are reviewed and discussed.		[Legrand, Fabien; Silete, Gwendoline; Schiffler, Frederic] Univ Reims, Reims, France; [Legrand, Fabien] Univ Reims, Dept Psychol, F-51096 Reims, France								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000512917900001	31	Article; Article		
J	Ma, Shang Chun; Kaplanidou, Kyriaki								Service quality, perceived value and behavioral intentions among highly and lowly identified baseball consumers across nations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	1			46	69		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2019-0018			FEB 3 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to understand how team identification and country influence professional baseball team spectators' evaluations of service quality factors, perceived value and future behavioral intentions. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected online from sports consumers of the Chinese Professional Baseball League (CPBL) in Taiwan (n = 600) and Major League Baseball in the USA (n = 460). A regression-based estimation method (PROCESS) and structural equation modeling approach were used to assess the relationships. Findings Both direct and indirect (via perceived value) effects of most service quality factors (schedule convenience, economic consideration, game amenities, ticket service and venue quality) on behavioral intentions are stronger for lowly than for highly identified CPBL fans. The indirect effect of home team on behavioral intentions is stronger for the lowly identified CPBL fans. The direct effect of game amenities and the indirect effect of venue quality (via perceived value) on behavioral intentions are stronger for the highly identified MLB fans. The indirect effect of opposing team and economic consideration is stronger for the lowly identified MLB fans. The positive relationship between venue quality and perceived value is stronger for the USA than for Taiwan fans. The relationships between game amenities and perceived value and between perceived value and behavioral intention are perceived to be invariant between fans from the two countries. Taiwan fans' behavioral intentions tend to be directly and indirectly affected by service quality factors, whereas US fans' behavioral intentions tend to be indirectly affected by service quality factors. Originality/value The study provides empirical evidence of the moderating role of team identification associated with the relationships between separate service quality factors, perceived value and behavioral intentions among consumers of a professional spectator sports in two different countries.		[Ma, Shang Chun] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan; [Kaplanidou, Kyriaki] Univ Florida, Coll Hlth & Human Performance, Dept Tourism Recreat & Sport Management, Gainesville, FL USA; [Ma, Shang Chun] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000509297100003	73	Article; Article		
J	Hanson, Thomas A.; Bryant, Michael R.; Lyman, Katie J.								Intercollegiate athletic programs, university brand equity and student satisfaction								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	1			106	126		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2018-0102			FEB 3 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to explore relationships among three primary variables: sports spectatorship of intercollegiate football, university brand equity and student satisfaction. The primary purpose is to understand the extent to which athletic programs influence campus culture, sense of community and the satisfaction of undergraduate students. A secondary purpose is to probe the factor structure, reliability and validity of a recently developed sports spectatorship scale. Design/methodology/approach The authors collected data through an online survey of 419 undergraduate students enrolled at three separate Midwestern universities, using previously developed and validated survey scales. Findings Relationships between brand equity and student satisfaction suggest that athletic programs provide a benefit to universities by improving students' psychological sense of community and emotional connection to the institution. Furthermore, correlations between sports spectatorship and brand equity measures suggest an internal advertising effect. Originality/value The results contribute to the understanding of the role of intercollegiate athletic programs, in this case from the perspective of enrolled undergraduate students. Additionally, the findings recommend ways that universities might maximize some of the benefits by emphasizing the emotional connection of the student body to the teams. The paper also contributes to the validation of the sports spectatorship scale as a tool for further research.		[Hanson, Thomas A.] Butler Univ, Indianapolis, IN 46208 USA; [Bryant, Michael R.] Univ Minnesota, Morris, MN 56267 USA; [Lyman, Katie J.] North Dakota State Univ, Fargo, ND 58105 USA; [Hanson, Thomas A.] Butler Univ, Indianapolis, IN 46208 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000509297100006	79	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Liangjun; Wang, Jerred Junqi; Chen, Xiaoying; Cianfrone, Beth; Pifer, Nathan David								Community-sport service provision, participant satisfaction, and participation Experience and perspective of Guangdong, China								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	1			127	147		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2019-0048			FEB 3 2020	2020	Purpose Since 2014, "sport for all" has been promoted as a new national strategy in China, which injects powerful dynamism and vitality for its development in numerous aspects. However, there has been very little feedback on sport service provision in community, and the satisfaction level of community participants is largely unmeasured. To promote physical and mental health of residents and form a stronger foundation of sport culture, more attention should be directed to community sports. The purpose of this paper is to examine the impact of community-sport service provisions on participants' satisfaction and, in turn, on their sport participation behavior. Design/methodology/approach Community-sport program participants in China (n=576) responded to a survey measuring the proposed concepts. Findings Structural equation modeling analyses revealed that community-sport services in the areas of sport facility, grassroots sport organizations and sport activity programs had strong influences on participant satisfaction and, in turn, their desire for participation, which highlighted the demand for high-quality sport service provision by community. Originality/value The study contributed to the literature by proposing two clear dimensions (core sport service and peripheral sport service) for the measurement of public sport service provision in community sports. A second theoretical contribution of the study relates to the clarification of the relationship between the two dimensions of community-sport service provision (both core and peripheral services) and community participants' satisfaction levels.		[Zhou, Liangjun] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Dept Sport Management & Leisure Studies, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jerred Junqi] Univ West Georgia, Dept Sport Management Wellness & Phys Educ, Carrollton, GA USA; [Chen, Xiaoying] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Dept Sport Media, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Cianfrone, Beth] Georgia State Univ, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Pifer, Nathan David] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Chen, Xiaoying] Guangzhou Sport Univ, Dept Sport Media, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000509297100007	138	Article; Article		
J	Xiao, Yi; Ren, Xiaoling; Zhang, Pei; Ketlhoafetse, Antonnette								The effect of service quality on foreign participants' satisfaction and behavioral intention with the 2016 Shanghai International Marathon								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	1			91	105		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2019-0037			FEB 3 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine foreign participants' service quality, satisfaction and behavioral intention during the 2016 Shanghai International Marathon, and to gain a better understanding of the impact of service quality on their satisfaction and behavioral intention. Design/methodology/approach An English questionnaire was originally designed on the basis of the literature review of service quality, overall satisfaction and re-participation intention to assess the purpose of the study. Data were collected from 308 foreign runners including 61.7 percent (n=190) of male and 38.3 percent (n=118) of the female. Structural equation modeling was employed to check the proposed model and to test the impact of service quality on foreign participants' overall satisfaction and behavioral intention. Findings A positive correlation was captured between the following: service quality and overall satisfaction (r=0.752, p<0.01), overall satisfaction and behavioral intention (r=0.876, p<0.01), and between service quality and participants' behavioral intention (r=0.760, p<0.01). Furthermore, the service quality of Shanghai International Marathon had an indirect effect on foreign participants' behavioral intention. The structural model fits the data well (R-2=0.823). Originality/value Little literature focus on foreign participants of Shanghai International Marathon, which is important in the process of shaping city image and building world-famous city. Are foreign participants satisfied with the Shanghai International Marathon? Which aspect of the service quality is of greater value for them? What are the influencing factors of their behavioral intention and word-of-mouth communication? What are the specific impact paths among the service quality, overall satisfaction and behavioral intention variables? To examine the objectives, the study was designed to target foreign participants' service quality, satisfaction and behavioral intention. Besides, structural equation model was applied in this study to explore the path relationship between service quality, satisfaction and behavioral intention specifically.		[Xiao, Yi; Ren, Xiaoling; Zhang, Pei; Ketlhoafetse, Antonnette] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Xiao, Yi] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China								34							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000509297100005	51	Article; Article		
J	Ertz, Elias; Cordes, Regina Viola Frey; Buettgen, Marion								Does ambushing pay off? Comparing the effectiveness of event sponsorship, team sponsorship, and ambush marketing								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	1			191	204		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2018-0021			FEB 3 2020	2020	Purpose Little is known about the comparative effectiveness of official sports event sponsorship, sports team sponsorship and ambush marketing (AM). The purpose of this paper is therefore to examine and compare the effectiveness of those three types of sports event-related marketing. Design/methodology/approach This research draws on a field experiment analyzing the effects the three types of sports event-related marketing during the FIFA Soccer World Cup 2014. To test the proposed main effects, the authors conducted a field experiment in two product categories (airlines and beer) testing for differences in brand attitude, customer-based brand equity and word-of-mouth (WOM), and testing moderating effects of advertisement creativity and sponsorship recognition. Findings Drawing on a field-experimental study on the occasion of the FIFA World Cup 2014, this research shows that team sponsorship has a stronger positive effect on consumers' attitudes than AM and event sponsorship. Brand attitude emerges as a central mediator of the sponsorship effect on WOM and customer-based brand equity. The authors find, surprisingly, that sponsorship recognition does not significantly moderate the relationship between sponsorship and customer attitudes, whereas advertisement creativity even weakens the positive effect of sponsorship on brand attitude, WOM and customer-based brand equity. Originality/value This research contributes to the literature in several ways. First, it tests a causal model that examines brand attitude, customer-based brand equity and WOM -intentions as outcome variables of AM effectiveness. This goes far beyond the proxy-measure of "sponsorship awareness," which previous studies used in order to quantify AM effectiveness. Second, taking into account and comparing the specific effects of event sponsorship, team sponsorship and AM, the study broadens the knowledge about the effectiveness of alternative sports event-related marketing approaches. Third, previous studies advised event sponsors to design humorous and creative advertisements to defend themselves against ambush marketers and beat them at their own game, which is tested by including ad creativity as a moderating variable.		[Ertz, Elias; Buettgen, Marion] Univ Hohenheim, Inst Mkt & Management, Stuttgart, Germany; [Cordes, Regina Viola Frey] IUBH Int Univ, Bad Reichenhall, Germany; [Cordes, Regina Viola Frey] IUBH Int Univ, Bad Reichenhall, Germany								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000509297100010	59	Article; Article		
J	Kwon, Hyungil; Shin, Jae Eun								Effects of brand exposure time duration and frequency on image transfer in sport sponsorship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	1			170	190		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2019-0042			FEB 3 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to explore the moderating effect of brand exposure time and exposure frequency in image transfer. In study 1, H1 and H2 assumed the bidirectional image transfer (i.e. from an event to a brand, from a brand to an event). H3 and H4 were set to examine the moderating effect of brand exposure time and exposure frequency in image transfer upon spreading activation theory, mere exposure effect and three-hit theory. Design/methodology/approach According to study 1, the result indicated that the amount of image transfer varied based on the exposure time. However, brand exposure frequency did not show statistically significant interactions. Study 2 was performed to complement the H4 of the study 1. In study 2, apart from the number of exposures on a screen (group 1=four times; group 2=eight times), the perceived number of exposures were separately measured (group 1=2.67; group 2=3.96) to see if the number of perceived exposures moderated the amount of image transfer. Findings The results indicated that there was no group difference in the amount of image transfer. Based on the result of the study, a sponsor brand must be exposed for enough time duration in order to maximize the return on investment regardless of how frequently it is exposed. Originality/value The current study examined the image transfer in sport sponsorship. Although previous studies empirically examined the image transfer phenomenon in sport sponsorship, they failed to establish theoretical ground. Thus, this study incorporated the three theories in advertising and examined how we can apply the theories to sport sponsorship. In addition, we examine the image transfer based on video clip which is mainly how people are exposed to sport sponsorship. Next, we examined the moderating effects of exposure duration and exposure frequency, which has never been studied in sport sponsorship context.		[Kwon, Hyungil] Chung Ang Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Shin, Jae Eun] Chung Ang Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Shin, Jae Eun] Chung Ang Univ, Seoul, South Korea								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000509297100009	63	Article; Article		
J	Rosa, Joao Paulo Pereira; Silva, Andressa; Rodrigues, Dayane Ferreira; Menslin, Rui; Araujo, Leonardo Tomasello; Vital, Roberto; Tufik, Sergio; Stieler, Eduardo; de Mello, Marco Tulio								Association between Hormonal Status, Stress, Recovery, and Motivation of Paralympic Swimmers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			652	661		10.1080/02701367.2019.1696929			OCT 1 2020	2020	Purpose: The present study aimed to investigate associations between hormonal profile (cortisol and testosterone) and the psychobiological aspects of Paralympic athletes during a competitive season. Method: Male Brazilian Paralympic swimmers (n = 11) were evaluated in three Training Camps (TC) during the cycle of training for the Paralympic Games RIO 2016. Questionnaires were used for data collection of stress and recovery, motivation in sport and hormonal status was assessed by salivary samples of cortisol ([Csal]) and testosterone ([Tsal]) concentrations. The Friedman test was used to identify overall significant differences at the three TC for each variable. When the overall p value indicated statistical significance (p < .05), a post hoc Wilcoxon signed-rank test for paired data was used to compare pairs of TC. The Spearman correlation was used to identify associations between the hormonal profile and the psychobiological aspects. Results: There was an association between the [Csal] and the "Conflicts/Pressure" sub-scale (r = 0.60; p = .04) in TC1 and the "Lack of Energy" subscale (r = 0.63; p = .03) in TC2. In the TC3, there were correlations between [Tsal] and "To Know" intrinsic motivation (r = 0.83, p < .01), "Objectives"(r = 0.66, p < .02), "Experiences" (r = 0.65, p < .02) and "Amotivation" (r = -0.70, p = .01). There were also associations between the [Tsal] and the "Social Recovery" (r = 0.77, p < .01), "General Wellness" (r = 0.73, p < .01), "Sleep Quality" (r = 0.63, p = .03) and "Self-efficacy" (r = 0.60, p = .05) subscales. In TC3, there was an association between [Tsal] and the "Success" (r = 0.61, p = .04), "Sleep Quality" (r = 0.62, p = .03), "Personal Accomplish" (r = 0.82, p < .01), "Self-efficacy" (r = 0.82, p < .05), "Self-regulation" (r = 0.85, p < .01) and "Physical Recovery" (r = 0.80, p < .01) subscales. The data demonstrate associations between biomarkers (salivary testosterone and cortisol) and psychobiological domains of Paralympic swimmers.		[Rosa, Joao Paulo Pereira; Silva, Andressa; Rodrigues, Dayane Ferreira; Stieler, Eduardo; de Mello, Marco Tulio] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Terapia Ocupac, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Rosa, Joao Paulo Pereira; Silva, Andressa; Rodrigues, Dayane Ferreira; Menslin, Rui; Araujo, Leonardo Tomasello; Vital, Roberto; de Mello, Marco Tulio] Com Paralimp Brasileiro, Acad Paralimp Brasileira, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Menslin, Rui] Pontificia Univ Catolica Parana, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Tufik, Sergio] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [de Mello, Marco Tulio] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Ave Presidente Carlos Luz 4664, BR-31310250 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000511834500001	40	Article; Article		
J	Schmitz, Boris; Pfeifer, Carina; Thorwesten, Lothar; Krueger, Michael; Klose, Andreas; Brand, Stefan-Martin								Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Level 1 Test for Estimation of Peak Oxygen Uptake: Use Without Restriction?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			478	487		10.1080/02701367.2019.1684432			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: This study analyzed the physiological response during Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Level 1 (YYIR1) test and re-test by in-field ergospirometry and time-series analyses of respiratory parameters. Methods: Ten moderately trained males (23.4 +/- 2.01 years, VO2peak= 56.81 +/- 10.75 mL center dot kg(-1)center dot min(-1)) completed three running trials including two separate YYIR1 tests and an independent maximal performance running test with time-series analyses of gas exchange parameters. Physiological response was assessed during all tests by determination of blood lactate levels (including calculation of individual lactate threshold), heart rate, oxygen consumption and respiratory exchange ratio (RER). Results: Modeling of YYIR1 test mean VO2 uptake kinetics over all participants revealed that VO2 increased rapidly after the individual lactate threshold (11.49 +/- 0.66 km center dot h(-1) at 3.83 +/- 0.42 mmol center dot L-1) was reached with similar to 95% VO2peak at similar to 50% of the test duration (test, VO250%= 95.17 +/- 8.74% of VO2peak; re-test, VO250%= 96.78 +/- 7.04% of VO2peak). However, and despite identical YYIR1 test performance (1568 +/- 364.6 m vs. 1568 +/- 449.7 m, CV = 4.59%), mean VO2peak during YYIR1 test was 8.81 +/- 5.6% higher than YYIR1 re-test (p = .027). Importantly, correlation of VO2peak with YYIR1 test performance was weak (R-2 = 0.28, p = .115). Conclusions: We conclude that the YYIR1 test should not be used to estimate VO2peak. Further studies on direct determination of gas exchange parameters during different YYI test variants are warranted.		[Schmitz, Boris; Pfeifer, Carina; Thorwesten, Lothar; Brand, Stefan-Martin] Univ Hosp Muenster, Munster, Germany; [Krueger, Michael; Klose, Andreas] Univ Munster, Munster, Germany; [Schmitz, Boris] Univ Hosp Muenster, Inst Sports Med, Mol Genet Cardiovasc Dis, Horstmarer Landweg 39, D-48149 Munster, Germany								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000511833200001	32	Article; Article		
J	Ely, Brett R.; Ely, Matthew R.								Running in the Heat: Performance Consequences and Strategies to Prepare for Hot-Weather Racing								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	1			90	96		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000484			FEB 2020	2020	Competitive runners seek to control as many performance variables as possible when preparing for peak competition. However, race day weather is out of an athlete's control and can have a profound impact on performance. This review defines hot weather in terms of running performance, details the physiology underlying heat-related performance decrements, and discusses strategies that may mitigate the negative impact of heat on cardiovascular strain and attenuate reductions in heat-related running performance.		[Ely, Brett R.] Salem State Univ, Dept Sport & Movement Sci, Salem, MA 01970 USA; [Ely, Matthew R.] Univ Oregon, Dept Human Physiol, Eugene, OR 97403 USA; [Ely, Brett R.] Salem State Univ, Dept Sport & Movement Sci, Salem, MA 01970 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986400012	65	Article; Article		
J	Blagrove, Richard C.; Howe, Louis P.; Howatson, Glyn; Hayes, Philip R.								Strength and Conditioning for Adolescent Endurance Runners								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				42	1			2	11		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000425			FEB 2020	2020	For the adolescent athlete who chooses to specialize in endurance running, strength and conditioning (S&C) activities provide a means of enhancing several important determinants of performance and may reduce the risk of overuse injury. It is recommended that adolescent endurance runners include at least 2 S&C sessions per week that comprise movement skills training, plyometric and sprint training, resistance training, plus exercises designed to target specific tissues that are vulnerable to injury. This article describes how these modalities of training can be integrated into the routine of adolescent endurance runners.		[Blagrove, Richard C.] Birmingham City Univ, Fac Hlth, Dept Sport & Exercise Educ & Life Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Blagrove, Richard C.; Howatson, Glyn; Hayes, Philip R.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Howe, Louis P.] Univ Cumbria, Dept Med & Sports Sci, Cumbria, England; [Howatson, Glyn] Northwest Univ, Water Res Grp, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Blagrove, Richard C.] Birmingham City Univ, Fac Hlth, Dept Sport & Exercise Educ & Life Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Blagrove, Richard C.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000524986400002	91	Article; Article		
J	Nasser, Igor; Perez, Renata de Mello; Reis, Michel Silva; Dias, Ingrid; Willardson, Jeffrey M.; Miranda, Humberto								Cardiovascular Acute Effects of Traditional Vs. Paired Set Resistance Training in Patients with Liver Cirrhosis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			630	639		10.1080/02701367.2019.1696013			OCT 1 2020	2020	Purpose: This study compared the acute effects of two different resistance training methods on heart rate variability, blood pressure, and rating of perceived exertion in patients with liver cirrhosis. Methods: Ten patients with Child-Pugh A (seven women and three men) participated in two experimental sessions, in random order: The traditional set condition consisted of three sets of six exercises performed in a sequential manner, while the paired set condition consisted of alternating sets between two exercises (three pairs of exercises). Ten repetitions were performed for each set with 70% of a 10 repetition maximum load and with 2 min rest between sets. Blood pressure and heart rate variability were assessed pre-workout and for 60 min post-workout. The rating of perceived exertion was assessed at the end of the third set for each exercise. Results: Significant alterations in heart rate variability were observed when considering the lowest value obtained during recovery, in which the SDNN was reduced in both the traditional set and paired set conditions, as well as the root mean square of standard deviation for the traditional set condition (p < .05). Additionally, for the paired set condition, there was a significant reduction in the HFnu band and a significant increase in the LFnu band (p < .05). Effect size showed reductions in diastolic and mean blood pressure until 30 min in a small magnitude for traditional sets. Conclusion: Similar cardiovascular responses were observed between methods eliciting normal physiological responses within safe limits for patients with liver cirrhosis.		[Nasser, Igor; Perez, Renata de Mello; Reis, Michel Silva; Dias, Ingrid; Miranda, Humberto] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Ave Carlos Chagas 540, BR-21941590 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Willardson, Jeffrey M.] Montana State Univ, Billings, MT USA; [Nasser, Igor] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Ave Carlos Chagas 540, BR-21941590 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000511790600001	44	Article; Article		
J	Provance, Aaron J.; Brewer, Matthew K.; Seehusen, Corrine N.; Younger, Bridget T.; Howell, David R.								Athletic trainer employment, physician access and care delivery in secondary schools								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	4			407	411		10.1080/00913847.2020.1719444			OCT 1 2020	2020	Objective: To evaluate the source of employment of athletic trainers (ATs), access to team physicians, and usage of up-to-date (implementation of the most current international sports medicine societies' position statements and evidence-based literature policy and procedure manuals in secondary schools. Methods: We conducted a cross-sectional study among National Athletic Trainers' Association (NATA) members. NATA 'Research Survey Request' was contacted to obtain 1,000 e-mail addresses of ATs who actively worked in the secondary school setting. We evaluated AT employment, access to team physicians, and usage of up-to-date policy and procedure manuals within different residential areas (urban, suburban, and rural) and school distinctions (public vs. private). Results: Two-hundred ninety-six responses were received (30% response rate). The majority (72%) of ATs reported having an assigned team physician for their school. Approximately one-third (36%) of ATs reported being employed by a hospital, clinic, or outreach facility. Fifty-one percent of ATs reported having a policy and procedure manual that was developed and reviewed with their team physician. There was a significantly greater amount of suburban ATs who reported having an up-to-date policy and procedure manual (urban 45% vs. suburban 60% vs. rural 39%; p = 0.007). Significantly more ATs who were employed in a public school setting reported conducting annual policy and procedure manual reviews than those employed in private school settings (public 63% vs. private 49%; p = 0.045). Conclusions: The majority of ATs have assigned team physicians and a third is employed by a medical group. A high number of ATs reported not having a policy and procedure manual that was developed and reviewed with their team physician. Sports medicine teams within secondary schools, particularly in private schools, should strive to develop and maintain an up-to-date policy and procedure manual that is frequently reviewed with their team physician.		[Provance, Aaron J.; Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Provance, Aaron J.; Brewer, Matthew K.; Seehusen, Corrine N.; Younger, Bridget T.; Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, 13123 E 16th Ave,B060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000511527900001	27	Article; Article		
J	Barthel, S. C.; Buckingham, T. M.; Haft, C. E.; Bechtolsheimer, J. E.; Bechtolsheimer, T. A.; Ferguson, D. P.								A Comparison of the Physiological Responses in Professional and Amateur Sports Car Racing Drivers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			562	573		10.1080/02701367.2019.1690120			OCT 1 2020	2020	Purpose: Automobile racing is physically challenging, but there is no information related to experience level and physiological responses to racing. The aim of this study was to compare physiological responses of professional (PRO) and amateur (AM) sportscar drivers. Methods: Four male racing drivers (PRO n = 2, AM n = 2), completed a physical fitness assessment and had heart rate (HR), breathing rate 10 (BR), skin temperature (T-sk), core temperature (T-core), physiological strain index (PSI) and blood glucose (BG) measured continuously during six races. Rate of perceived exertion (RPE), blood lactate, and fluid loss were measured post-race. Results: AM had higher HR compared to PRO during driver changes (AM: 177 +/- 12 beats.min(-1), PRO: 141 +/- 16 beats.min(-1), p < .0001), pit stops (AM: 139 +/- 14 beats.min(-1), PRO: 122 +/- 1 beats.min(-1), p = .0381) and cautions (AM: 144 +/- 13 beats.min(-1), PRO: 15 123 +/- 11 beats.min(-1), p = .0059). During pit stops, PRO (26 +/- 6 respirations.min(-1)) displayed a significantly greater BR than AM (AM: 18 +/- 7 respirations.min(-1), p = .0004). T-core was greater for PRO (38.4 +/- 0.4 degrees C) drivers while in the car during pit stops than AM (36.1 +/- 2.5 degrees C, p < .0001). AM displayed elevated PSI during cautions (AM: 5.5 +/- 1.8, PRO: 3.2 +/- 1.3, p < .0001) and pit stops (AM: 5.6 +/- 1.4, PRO: 2.8 +/- 1.1, p < .0001). BG was increased for AM versus PRO during pit stops (AM: 20 132.9 +/- 20.2 mg.dl(-1), PRO: 106.5 +/- 3.5 mg.dl(-1), p = .0015) and during racing (AM: 150.9 +/- 34.6 mg.dl(-1), PRO: 124.9 +/- 16.0 mg.dl(-1), p = .0018). AM (3.3 +/- 1.7 mmol.dl(-1)) had a higher blood lactate than PRO (1.7 +/- 2.6 mmol.dl(-1), p = .0491) from pre to post-race. AM (1.90 +/- 0.54 kg) lost more fluids over the race than PRO (1.36 +/- 0.67 kg, p = .0271). Conclusions: Amateur drivers could fatigue faster in the car which results in a decreased driving performance.		[Barthel, S. C.; Buckingham, T. M.; Ferguson, D. P.] Michigan State Univ, 308 W Circle Dr Room 27S, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Haft, C. E.; Bechtolsheimer, J. E.; Bechtolsheimer, T. A.] Unit Nutr, New York, NY USA; [Ferguson, D. P.] Michigan State Univ, 308 W Circle Dr Room 27S, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509087100001	33	Article; Article		
J	LaPlaca, David A.; Schempp, Paul G.								The Characteristics Differentiating Expert and Competent Strength and Conditioning Coaches								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			488	499		10.1080/02701367.2019.1686451			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to identify the skills, knowledge, and experiences differentiating expert and competent strength and conditioning (S&C) coaches. Method: The participants were 87 elite-level head S&C coaches with an average of over 18 years of coaching experience. These coaches were employed by teams from the MLB, NBA, NFL, NHL, NCAA Division 1 FBS "Power Five" Conferences, United States National Teams, and the Australian Football League. This study used both a qualitative and quantitative research design through the use of the Delphi method, which incorporated three rounds of surveys. The first-round survey asked the participants to identify at least one important skill, knowledge area, and experience that should be possessed by an expert and competent S&C coach respectively. The characteristics generated from the first round were placed on a second-round survey and rated on their level of importance using a five-point Likert scale. If a characteristic received a suggestion for rephrasing, and did not reach a level of consensus, or an entirely new characteristic was suggested, then it was placed on the final-round survey to be rated again. Characteristics that reached a level of consensus were placed on the final list of characteristics. Results: A total of 46 characteristics reached a level of consensus and were placed on the final list of characteristics. Conclusion: There now exists an empirically validated list of characteristics differentiating expert and competent S&C coaches. This list can aid in the selection, evaluation, and development of S&C coaches.		[LaPlaca, David A.; Schempp, Paul G.] Univ Georgia, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [LaPlaca, David A.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Sport Instruct Res Lab, Athens, GA 30602 USA								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509086700001	40	Article; Article		
J	dos Santos, Karini Borges; Barauce Bento, Paulo Cesar; Payton, Carl; Felix Rodacki, Andre Luiz								Kinematic Parameters after Repeated Swimming Efforts in Higher and Lower Proficiency Swimmers and Para-swimmers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	4			574	582		10.1080/02701367.2019.1693011			OCT 1 2020	2020	Purpose: The aim of this study was to determine changes in swimming parameters, stroke coordination, and symmetry after repeated high-intensity swimming efforts in swimmers of different performance levels and para-swimmers. Method: Forty swimmers (20 able-bodied, allocated to higher and lower performance groups-G1 and G2, respectively-and 20 impaired swimmers-S5 to S10) were recorded by four underwater cameras while performing repeated 50 m maximum front-crawl swimming with a ten-second interval for each time endured by the swimmer. A cycle stroke was digitized using SIMI Reality Motion Systems in the first and last trials to analyze the kinematic parameters. The comparison among groups and conditions was performed by Mixed ANOVA Models with p < .05. Results: For all groups, swimming velocity, stroke rate, and stroke index showed reduction over time, while stroke length and intracyclic velocity variation did not show significant changes. Conclusions: Training to maintain stroke rate is necessary to support performance since it is the main cause of velocity decrease. Stroke dimensions and individual underwater phases were not sufficient to distinguish groups or conditions. Hand velocity decreased probably due to a decline in energy capacity, propulsive force and passive drag caused by the fatigue process.		[dos Santos, Karini Borges; Barauce Bento, Paulo Cesar; Felix Rodacki, Andre Luiz] Univ Fed Parana, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [dos Santos, Karini Borges] Univ Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Payton, Carl] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Manchester, Lancs, England; [dos Santos, Karini Borges] Univ Fed Parana, Setor Ciencias Biol, R Coracao de Maria,92 Jardim Bot, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509086800001	36	Article; Article		
J	Sekendiz, Betul								An epidemiological analysis of yoga-related injury presentations to emergency departments in Australia								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	3			349	353		10.1080/00913847.2020.1717395			JUL 2 2020	2020	Objectives: Despite being considered a low-intensity exercise, concerns have been raised about the risk of injuries associated with yoga. This study aimed to analyze the characteristics and trend of yoga-related emergency department (ED) presentations from July 2009 to June 2016 in Victoria, Australia. Methods: The Victorian Emergency Minimum Dataset (VEMD) was used to collect the de-identified data. The data were first analyzed using descriptive statistics and Spearman's correlation. Further injury trend was analyzed by calculating the percentage change of the number of yoga-related injuries during the 7-year study period. Results: There were 118 yoga-related injury cases that significantly (p < .05) increased by 357% from July 2009 to June 2016. Most of the cases were female (n = 96; 81.4%) and between 20 and 39 years old (n = 68, 57.6%). Most common injuries comprised dislocations/sprains/strains (n = 60, 51.7%) followed by fractures (n = 17, 14.4%), and injury to muscle/tendon (n = 15, 12.7%). Conclusion: The findings warrant future nationwide research as well as an investigation into the risk management strategies of yoga service providers to minimize the risk of injury.		[Sekendiz, Betul] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Sekendiz, Betul] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509446200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Boddington, Brenton J.; Cripps, Ashley J.; Scanlan, Aaron T.; Spiteri, Tania								Operation of the Basketball Jump Shooting Accuracy Test: Intra- and inter-rater reliability of scoring procedures and floor and ceiling effects for test performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	2			220	226	1747954120902568	10.1177/1747954120902568			APR 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to determine the intra- and inter-rater reliability of scoring procedures used in the newly developed Basketball Jump Shooting Accuracy Test (BJSAT) and assess for floor and ceiling effects in test performance. Thirty-one semi-professional basketball athletes completed four trials of the BJSAT. The BJSAT contains one jump shot at eight different locations, equally distributed across two- and three-point shots. Intra-rater reliability was determined by assessing the level of agreement between scores live in-person and watching captured video by the same assessor. Inter-rater reliability was determined by examining the level of agreement between two assessors who separately scored the BJSAT while watching captured video. Descriptive statistics and Cohen's kappa (kappa) were calculated to quantify the intra- and inter-rater reliability of the BJSAT. Floor and ceiling effects in scoring outcomes were analyzed to evaluate the suitability of the BJSAT. Significance for the study was set at p almost perfect (kappa = 0.85, p <0.01) agreement between scores (12.6 +/- 2.5 vs. 13.1 +/- 2.8). The agreement for inter-rater reliability was rated as substantial (12.3 +/- 2.5 vs. 13.5 +/- 2.9, kappa = 0.70, p <0.01). Floor and ceiling effects were absent in the BJSAT indicating the assessment is suitable for semi-professional basketball athletes. The BJSAT is an assessment where one or multiple assessors can reliably score shooting performance for functions including player monitoring, to assess the efficacy of interventions aimed at improving skills and to assist with team selection across the season.		[Boddington, Brenton J.; Cripps, Ashley J.; Spiteri, Tania] Univ Notre Dame, Sch Hlth Sci, POB 1225, Fremantle, WA 6959, Australia; [Scanlan, Aaron T.] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Human Exercise & Training Lab, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Boddington, Brenton J.] Univ Notre Dame, Sch Hlth Sci, POB 1225, Fremantle, WA 6959, Australia								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000509056200001	22	Article; Article		
J	Depken, Craig A., II; Fore, Benjamin L.								Firm-Level Economic Activity Before, During, and After Local Events: A Case Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	4			327	334	1527002519897972	10.1177/1527002519897972			MAY 2020	2020	This case study investigates how various sporting and cultural events impact economic activity at a single full-service restaurant in center-city Charlotte, NC. We find no evidence of significant changes in daily revenue, customers served, and revenue per customer on the day before, day of, and day after many of the events. The exceptions are National Football League (NFL) home games, swimming events, events at the Charlotte Convention Center, the 2012 Democratic National Convention, NASCAR races, PGA tournaments, and entertainment events at the Spectrum Center. The results invite future research using firm-level data to better understand the disparate impact of events on business enterprises.		[Depken, Craig A., II] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Dept Econ, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA; [Fore, Benjamin L.] Bank Amer, New York, NY USA; [Depken, Craig A., II] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Dept Econ, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA								7							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000509048300001	6	Article; Article		
J	Brechot, Marc; Flepp, Raphael								Dealing With Randomness in Match Outcomes: How to Rethink Performance Evaluation in European Club Football Using Expected Goals								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	4			335	362	1527002519897962	10.1177/1527002519897962			MAY 2020	2020	In European club football, decision makers often rely on recent match outcomes when evaluating team performance, even though short-term results are heavily influenced by randomness. This can lead to systematic misjudgments. In this article, we propose a complementary approach for performance evaluation. We build upon the concept of expected goals based on quantified scoring chances and develop a chart that visualizes situations in which a team's true performance likely deviates from the performance indicated by match outcomes. This should prevent clubs from making flawed decisions when match outcomes are misleading due to the influence of random forces.		[Brechot, Marc; Flepp, Raphael] Univ Zurich, Dept Business Adm, Plattenstr 14, CH-8032 Zurich, Switzerland; [Flepp, Raphael] Univ Zurich, Dept Business Adm, Plattenstr 14, CH-8032 Zurich, Switzerland								64							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000509042100001	34	Article; Article		
J	Issaoui, Mahdi; Zouhal, Hassane; Yousfi, Narimen; Salhi, Amal; Ali, Aloui; Bragazzi, Nicola; Hamdouni, Habil; Miarka, Bianka; Hackney, Anthony C.; Ben Abderrahman, Abderraouf								Effect of Ramadan fasting: Association with time of day on time-motion, technical aspect and psychophysiological response to simulated karate competition in young amateur competitors								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	2			195	203	1747954119900993	10.1177/1747954119900993			APR 2020	2020	Ramadan is characterized by daily abstinence from food and fluid intake from dawn to sunset. The understanding of the Ramadan effects on the diurnal variations of athletic performance is crucial for practitioners, coach and researchers to prepare sport events and optimize performance. The aim of the present study was to reveal the effect of Ramadan on the performance aspect, heart rate and rating of perceived exertion during a karate match. In a randomized counterbalanced, 2 x 2 cross-over order, 22 male and female amateur karate athletes (age = 16.8 years, body mass = 59.1 kg, height = 168.3 cm) participated in simulated karate match at 8-10 a.m. and 5-7 p.m. on three different occasions: 1 week before Ramadan, the second week of Ramadan (during Ramadan), and 2 weeks after Ramadan. Performance aspects were analyzed, and heart rate and rating of perceived exertion were assessed before and immediately after the match at each visit. Our results demonstrated that Ramadan adversely affected time-motion variables (fighting time and preparatory time) and heart rate during simulated karate match (p < 0.05, all). However, heart rate pic response to karate match was higher during Ramadan when compared with before Ramadan and after Ramadan. However, rating of perceived exertion results did not show any variation during Ramadan phases. Concerning the interaction of Ramadan and time of day, fighting time and stoppage time were higher in the evening and in the morning before Ramadan and the inverse during Ramadan, respectively (p < 0.05). In conclusion, Ramadan altered the diurnal variation of performance aspect, in terms of fighting time and stoppage time, during simulated karate match.		[Issaoui, Mahdi] Univ Bizerte, Dept Biol Sci, Zarzouna, Tunisia; [Zouhal, Hassane] Univ Rennes 2, Movement Sport & Hlth Sci Lab M2S, Rennes, France; [Yousfi, Narimen; Salhi, Amal; Ali, Aloui; Hamdouni, Habil; Ben Abderrahman, Abderraouf] Univ Manouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Manouba, Tunisia; [Salhi, Amal] Natl Inst Orthoped MT Kassab, Dept Med Phys & Funct Rehabil, Tunis, Tunisia; [Bragazzi, Nicola] Genoa Univ, Sect Psychiat, Dept Neurosci Rehabil Ophthalmol Genet Maternal &, Genoa, Italy; [Miarka, Bianka] Univ Fed Pelotas, Phys Educ Sch, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Hackney, Anthony C.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Zouhal, Hassane] Univ Rennes 2, Movement Sport & Hlth Sci Lab M2S, Rennes, France								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000509041500001	41	Article; Article		
J	Erivan, Roger; Riouach, Hicham; Villatte, Guillaume; Pereira, Bruno; Descamps, Stephane; Boisgard, Stephane								Hip preserving surgery for avascular hip necrosis: does terminating exposure to known risk factors improve survival?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	3			335	341		10.1080/00913847.2020.1711827			JUL 2 2020	2020	Introduction: Avascular necrosis of the hip is rarely detected in early pre-radiographic stages (Arlet-Ficat stages I and II) where conservative treatment would still be possible. Studies of risk factors were often merely descriptive. The aim of the present study was to make a retrospective assessment of treatment survival rate for conservative management of avascular hip necrosis according to whether exposure to avoidable risk factors is eliminated or not. The study hypothesis was that eliminating avoidable risk factors is effective and reduces the risk of failure, and hence of hip replacement. Material and method: A single-center retrospective study was performed for conservatively managed avascular hip necrosis. Thirty-seven consecutive hips in 34 patients underwent decompression drilling, with a minimum 3-year follow-up. Known risk factors for osteonecrosis were classified as avoidable or non-avoidable. Results were analyzed according to the elimination of avoidable risk factors. The main endpoint was survival, with failure defined as femoral head collapse and/or recourse to total hip replacement. Avoidable risk factors (corticosteroids, smoking, alcohol consumption, blood pressure elevation, hypercholesterolemia) persisted for 17 hips (45.9%) and were prevented for 15 (40.5%). Five patients (5 hips: 13.5%) did not show preoperatively identified risk factors. Groups were demographically comparable. Results: Mean follow-up was 7.5 +/- 3.7 years (range, 3.1-16.0 years). At last follow-up, there was a significant difference in survival at cumulative 9-year follow-up between patients with no risk factors (100%), with risk factors eliminated (59.3%; 95% CI, 0.273-0.012), and with persisting risk factors (23.5%; 95% CI, 0.013-0.458) (p = 0.001). Discussion: No studies were found in the literature assessing the survival of hip preserving surgery according to persistence or elimination of known risk factors for osteonecrosis. Eliminating risk factors significantly improved the survival rate for conservative treatment of femoral head necrosis.		[Erivan, Roger; Villatte, Guillaume; Descamps, Stephane; Boisgard, Stephane] Univ Clermont Auvergne, CHU Clermont Ferrand, SIGMA Clermont, CNRS,ICCF, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Riouach, Hicham] Univ Clermont Auvergne, CHU Clermont Ferrand, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Pereira, Bruno] CHU Clermont Ferrand, DRCI, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Erivan, Roger] CHU Clermont Ferrand, Orthoped & Trauma Surg Dept, Hop Gabriel Montpied, BP 69, F-63003 Clermont Ferrand, France								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000507845900001	30	Article; Article		
J	Kearney, Philip E.; Comyns, Thomas M.; Hayes, Philip R.								Coaches and parents hold contrasting perceptions of optimal youth development activities in track and field athletics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	2			157	169	1747954119900052	10.1177/1747954119900052			APR 2020	2020	This study examined track and field coaches' and parents' knowledge of (a) the relationship between adolescent and later success, (b) factors contributing to adolescent success, particularly in relation to relative age effects, and (c) optimal athlete development practices, such as the timing of sport specialisation. Fifty-two coaches and 116 parents completed a survey comprising both closed and open questions. Compared to coaches, parents were more likely to believe that successful adults had achieved success during early adolescence and to connect that success to innate ability rather than relative development. However, there was no difference in the proportion of parents and coaches who reported familiarity with the relative age effect (approximately 50%). The most pronounced differences between coaches and players were in relation to optimal youth development practices, with parents more likely to encourage year-round training at an earlier age, and specialising in a single sport at an earlier age. Contrasting the knowledge reported by coaches and parents with the results of quantitative studies of youth development suggests that bespoke education is required for both groups. Furthermore, the explanations provided by parents and coaches for their beliefs about youth sport practices suggest that professional bodies need to provide more nuanced instruction to stakeholders on how to implement general guidelines on healthy youth sport practices into their individual practice.		[Kearney, Philip E.; Comyns, Thomas M.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Kearney, Philip E.; Comyns, Thomas M.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Hayes, Philip R.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Kearney, Philip E.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000506970100001	67	Article; Article		
J	Johansson, Rebecca E.; Adolph, Steffen T.; Swart, Jeroen; Lambert, Mike I.								Accuracy of GPS sport watches in measuring distance in an ultramarathon running race								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	2			212	219	1747954119899880	10.1177/1747954119899880			APR 2020	2020	Purpose: The aim of the study was to determine the accuracy of various global positioning system (GPS) sport watches in measuring distance throughout a 56 km running race. Methods: The measured distance between timing mats was compared to the reported distance of GPS devices at the 2017 Two Oceans Marathon. Runners (n = 255) were divided into eight different categories based on GPS sport watch brand and model. The difference between distance measured by GPS and race markers was represented in metres (m) and as a relative error (%). Results: The Garmin Fenix and cell phone categories had higher errors in measuring distance from the 16 km to finish (56 km) point compared to all other devices, except for activity watches. Conclusions: The GPS sport watches in this study have an accuracy of 0.6 +/- 0.3% to 1.9 +/- 1.5% (median +/- interquartile range) in reporting distance covered. This indicates that GPS sport watches are a valid and feasible method for sport scientists and coaches to measure performance and track training load. However, the small error associated with each brand needs to be considered when data are interpreted.		[Johansson, Rebecca E.; Adolph, Steffen T.; Swart, Jeroen; Lambert, Mike I.] Univ Cape Town, Sports Sci Inst South Africa, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Boundary Rd, ZA-7725 Cape Town, South Africa; [Johansson, Rebecca E.] Univ Cape Town, Sports Sci Inst South Africa, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Boundary Rd, ZA-7725 Cape Town, South Africa								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000506981400001	21	Article; Article		
J	Bird, Jonathan M.; Karageorghis, Costas, I								A Grounded Theory of Music-Video Use in an Exercise Facility								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			445	459		10.1080/02701367.2019.1680788			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Despite considerable interest in the effects of music in an exercise context, there is a dearth of research examining the use of music-videos. This is surprising given the ubiquity of this medium in exercise facilities. The present study sought to examine the impact of a music-video channel on the social process of exercising in a public exercise facility. Method: A grounded theory approach underpinned by pragmatism and symbolic interactionism was employed. Thirteen exercisers completed reflective diaries following each attendance at the facility over a 4-week period. Subsequently, 11 exercisers were interviewed regarding the impact of the music-video channel on the social process of exercising at the facility. Staff members' perspectives were deemed important throughout the iterative process of data collection and analysis. Accordingly, four staff members were interviewed with reference to the social process of managing an exercise facility that featured a music-video channel. Data were analyzed using open, axial, and selective coding. Results: The results provide support for a three-stage substantive theory that commences with the content of the music-video channel. The second stage depicts a series of moderators (e.g., exercise factors, temporal factors) that revolve around the core category, appraisal of the appropriateness of channel content. Lastly, a range of effects pertaining to exercisers and facility staff are predicted, and relevant social processes are expounded. Conclusion: Given the prevalence of music-video channels in contemporary exercise and health facilities, the substantive theory bears relevance to exercisers, health/performance practitioners, and researchers.		[Bird, Jonathan M.; Karageorghis, Costas, I] Brunel Univ London, Uxbridge, Middx, England; [Karageorghis, Costas, I] Brunel Univ London, Dept Life Sci, Kingston Lane, Uxbridge UB8 3PH, Middx, England								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000506106200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Guignard, Brice; Rouard, Annie; Chollet, Didier; Bonifazi, Marco; Dalla Vedova, Dario; Hart, John; Seifert, Ludovic								Coordination Dynamics of Upper Limbs in Swimming: Effects of Speed and Fluid Flow Manipulation								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			433	444		10.1080/02701367.2019.1680787			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Motor outputs are governed by dynamics organized around stable states and spontaneous transitions: we seek to investigate the swimmers' motor behavior flexibility as a function of speed and aquatic environment manipulations. Method: Eight elite male swimmers partook an eight-level incremental test (4% increment from 76% to 104% of their mean speed on 200 m front crawl) in a quasi-static aquatic environment (pool). Swimmers then partook another incremental test at similar effort in a dynamic aquatic environment (swimming flume) up to maximal speed. Stroke rate (SR), index of coordination (IdC) and intersegmental coupling of the upper limbs were computed from the inertial sensors located on the upper limbs and the sacrum. Results: With speed increase, SR values presented a steeper linear increase in the pool than in the flume. IdC values increased also in the pool but remained stable in the flume. Individual SR and IdC vs. speed increase displayed second-order polynomial dynamics, indicative of adaptive flexibility with a range of extremum values more restricted in the flume. Finally, a reduction of the in-phase coordination pattern was noted with flume speed increase. Conclusions: Action possibilities were strongly constrained in the flume at the highest speeds as the fluid flow led to discontinuity in the propulsive actions of the upper limbs and lack of in-phase inter-segmental coordination. This highlights that the behavioral flexibility was restricted in the flume in comparison to the pool, in which the exploitation of opportunities for action involved a larger number of degrees of freedom in the movement.		[Guignard, Brice; Chollet, Didier; Seifert, Ludovic] Univ Rouen Normandy, Mont St Aignan, France; [Guignard, Brice; Rouard, Annie] Univ Savoie Mt Blanc, Chambery, France; [Bonifazi, Marco] Univ Siena, Siena, Italy; [Dalla Vedova, Dario] Italian Natl Olymp Comm CONI, Med & Sci Sport Inst, Rome, Italy; [Hart, John] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Guignard, Brice] Univ Rouen Normandy, Ctr Study & Transformat Phys Act CETAPS, Fac Sport Sci, UNIROUEN, F-76821 Mont St Aignan, France								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000505889200001	30	Article; Article		
J	Carvalho, Alberto; Roriz, Paulo; Duarte, Daniel								Comparison of Morphological Profiles and Performance Variables Between Female Volleyball Players of the First and Second Division In Portugal								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			109	117		10.2478/hukin-2019-0076			JAN 2020	2020	Knowledge of players' anthropometric profiles may contribute to a better understanding of the differences between their performance levels. For example, vertical jump height, which is a major indicator of a volleyball player's performance, is influenced by favorable anthropometric variables. This study's aim was to describe anthropometric profiles of elite female volleyball players competing in the 1st and 2nd divisions in Portugal and to link these profiles with performance skills such as jump height obtained during blocking and spiking actions. Fifty-nine volleyball players were analyzed according to their competitive level, forming three independent groups: GA (n = 20, A1 division, ranked first), GB (n = 21, A1 division, ranked last) and GC (n = 18, A2 division). Anthropometric data collected included body mass and height, arm span, seven skinfolds (triceps, biceps, subscapular, suprailiac, abdominal, thigh and calf), four body perimeters (relaxed brachial, contracted brachial, thigh and calf), and two body diameters (humeral and femoral). Performance data included the height obtained during block and spike actions. Significant differences were found between groups (GA/GB from A1 and GC from A2). Players in the GA had the highest body mass (68.05 +/- 6.62 kg, p < 0.05), body height (176.35 +/- 6.21 cm, p < 0.05), arm span (177.59 +/- 6.09 cm, p < 0.05), lean mass (53.51 +/- 4.94 kg, p < 0.05) and vertical jump heights (block: 0.36 +/- 0.06 m and spike: 0.43 +/- 0.05 m, p < 0.05). As expected, the fat mass percentage of GA players was the lowest (21.30 +/- 2.61%). The results suggest that anthropometric profiles of volleyball players may vary according to the competitive level. The higher body mass, body height, arm span, and lean mass presented by GA players in comparison with GC players suggest these variables are important for top-level performance, since these athletes also exhibited higher jump heights. Variables such as height and arm span have a considerable genetic influence and could be important for early talent identification in volleyball. Other variables such as body mass, lean mass and vertical jump performance are more complex, since they also reflect the effects of environmental and training conditions.		[Carvalho, Alberto; Roriz, Paulo; Duarte, Daniel] Inst Univ Maia ISMAI, Castelo Da Maia, Portugal; [Carvalho, Alberto; Roriz, Paulo; Duarte, Daniel] Inst Polytech Maia IPMAIA, Castelo Da Maia, Portugal; [Carvalho, Alberto; Roriz, Paulo; Duarte, Daniel] IPMAIA Res Nucleus N2i, Castelo Da Maia, Portugal; [Roriz, Paulo] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Roriz, Paulo] Porto Biomech Lab LABIOMEP, Porto, Portugal; [Carvalho, Alberto] Inst Univ Maia ISMAI, ISMAI Inst Super Maia, Av Carlos Oliveira Campos, P-4475690 Castelo Da Maia, Portugal								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900009	31	Article; Article		
J	Owen, Adam Lee; Newton, Matt; Shovlin, Aidan; Malone, Shane								The Use of Small-Sided Games as an Aerobic Fitness Assessment Supplement within Elite Level Professional Soccer								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			243	253		10.2478/hukin-2019-0086			JAN 2020	2020	The purpose of this investigation was to quantify the association between 5 vs. 5 small sided games (SSG) running performance and physiological performance during the Yo-YoIR1 test to ascertain the utility of SSGs as a potential fitness test modality within elite professional soccer players. Twenty-three (n = 23) elite male professional soccer players (mean +/- SD age 25.3 +/- 3.1 yrs, mass: 76 +/- 9 kg, height: 176 +/- 9 cm) were assessed. Players completed an intermittent aerobic fitness test (Yo-YoIR1) and a 5 vs. 5 SSGs protocol for the purpose of the study. During all SSGs players wore GPS (Statsports 10-Hz, Viper Pod, Newry, Northern Ireland) and HR monitors (Polar, Oy Kemple, Finland) with these measures related to Yo-YoIR1 running performance. Results revealed SSGs running performance (TD; m) and physiological performance (HR) showed the lowest CV% (< 5%), with high speed movements, accelerations and decelerations highlighting higher CV% during SSGs. Possibly small to possibly very large associations were observed for running performance during 5 vs. 5 SSGs and Yo-YoIR1 performance, with negative associations observed between physiological performance during SSG and YoYoIR1 running performance. To conclude, the current study observed how running performance during a standardised 5 vs. 5 SSG protocol within elite soccer cohorts is associated with the Yo-YoIR1 running performance. Given the low CV%, repeatability and large association of global running performance and internal load measures during a 5 vs. 5 SSG with Yo-YoIR1 performance, this particular soccer specific SSG protocol potentially supplements traditional non-sport specific testing assessments.		[Owen, Adam Lee] Claude Bernard Lyon 1, EA 7424, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Biol, Lyon, France; [Newton, Matt] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Tom Reilly Bldg, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Shovlin, Aidan; Malone, Shane] Technol Univ Dublin, Dept Sci, Human Performance Lab, Dublin, Ireland; [Owen, Adam Lee] Claude Bernard Lyon 1, EA 7424, Interuniv Lab Human Movement Biol, Lyon, France								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900021	37	Article; Article		
J	Los Arcos, Asier; Martinez-Santos, Rani; Castillo, Daniel								Spanish Elite Soccer Reserve Team Configuration and the Impact of Physical Fitness Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			211	218		10.2478/hukin-2019-0085			JAN 2020	2020	The aim of this study was threefold: 1) to assess the configuration of an elite reserve soccer team, 2) to compare physical fitness performance of promoted and new players according to the playing position, and 3) to analyze the level of competitive participation attained by these players. We considered physical fitness tests (5 m and 15 m sprint, countermovement jump [CMJ] and aerobic endurance) performed by 192 players (age = 20.2 +/- 2.3 years) enrolled in the reserve team of a Spanish La Liga club from 1994 to 2013. The players were classified according to the previous club criterion (promoted from the soccer academy and new players signed from other clubs), b) their playing position, and c) the competitive level attained until the 2016/2017 season (Spanish 1st and 2nd Divisions and the remaining competition levels). The proportion of promoted and new players was similar (p = 0.47). Overall, no substantial differences (unclear-small) were found in physical fitness performance between promoted and new players. Considering the playing position, promoted lateral defenders (LDs) showed better sprinting (ES = moderate) and CMJ (ES = moderate) performance than new LDs. In addition, promoted central midfielders (CMs) demonstrated better performance in the 5 m sprint and the CMJ (ES = moderate) than new CMs. The percentage of players who later competed in the Spanish 1st and 2nd Divisions was greater in promoted players compared to new players (p = 0.006). Physical fitness performance did not determine the selection of new players in a soccer elite reserve team. We may conclude that soccer academies should prioritize the selection and the training process of youth soccer players.		[Los Arcos, Asier; Martinez-Santos, Rani] Univ Basque Country, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Castillo, Daniel] Univ Isabel I, Fac Ciencias Salud, Calle Fernan Gonzalez, Burgos, Spain; [Los Arcos, Asier] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900018	32	Article; Article		
J	Mascherini, Gabriele; Petri, Cristian; Ermini, Elena; Pizzi, Angelo; Ventura, Antonio; Galanti, Giorgio								Eating Habits and Body Composition of International Elite Soccer Referees								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			145	153		10.2478/hukin-2019-0078			JAN 2020	2020	Soccer referees are a specific group of the athletes' population whose careers peak from 30 to 45 years old. An athlete's performance is not only determined by physical training but also by a lifestyle, e.g. eating habits. The purpose of this study was to verify current eating habits and resulting body composition of a group of elite international soccer referees. At an international FIFA seminar 60 elite international soccer referees (aged 39.2 +/- 4.2 years) were enrolled. A body composition assessment was performed with skinfold thickness and bio impedance analysis, while eating habits were evaluated with a multi-pass 24-hour dietary recall. The body composition showed a normal weight condition with a fat content of 11.4 +/- 2.5%. Macronutrients showed a low level of carbohydrates (43.6 +/- 5.4%) and a high level of fat (40.0 +/- 4.5%). Micronutrients showed a low level of calcium, potassium, zinc, magnesium, iodine, vitamin B12 and vitamin B9. Even though their body composition was within the normal range, the current eating habits of elite international soccer referees did not appear to follow the nutrition guidelines. Therefore, it would be advisable to provide knowledge on nutrition for this particular category of sports subjects, an individualized nutritional plan would be advisable, in order to achieve and maintain better performance and appropriate body composition for their role.		[Mascherini, Gabriele; Petri, Cristian; Ermini, Elena; Ventura, Antonio; Galanti, Giorgio] Univ Florence, Sports & Exercise Med Unit, Dept Expt & Clin Med, Florence, Italy; [Pizzi, Angelo] Italian Referee Assoc Italian Soccer Federat, Rome, Italy; [Mascherini, Gabriele] Largo Brambilla 3, I-50100 Florence, Italy								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900012	31	Article; Article		
J	Tayech, Amel; Mejri, Mohamed Arbi; Chaouachi, Mehdi; Chaabene, Helmi; Hambli, Mourad; Brughelli, Matt; Behm, David G.; Chaouachi, Anis								Taekwondo Anaerobic Intermittent Kick Test: Discriminant Validity and an Update with the Gold-Standard Wingate Test								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			229	242		10.2478/hukin-2019-0081			JAN 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to update the validity of the Taekwondo Anaerobic Intermittent Kick Test compared with the 30-s Wingate anaerobic test as the "Gold-Standard", squat jump and countermovement jump tests. The second objective was to examine whether this new specific test would be able to effectively discriminate between elite taekwondo athletes of different competitive levels. Twenty taekwondo athletes (15 males and 5 females) participated in the validation component, whereas 18 (14 males and 4 females) and 16 (13 males and 3 females) athletes participated in the reliability analysis of the Wingate anaerobic test and jumping tests, respectively. They performed these tests on two separate occasions (i.e., test-retest), in addition to the Taekwondo Anaerobic Intermittent Kick Test. To establish test's discriminatory capability (i.e., construct validity), two subgroups were identified based on their international and national taekwondo performance: 10 elite (8 males and 2 females) and 9 sub-elite (7 males and 2 females) athletes. Wingate anaerobic test and jumping tests performances showed excellent reliability (ICC > 0.90, SEM < 5% for most variables). Significant correlations between Taekwondo Anaerobic Intermittent Kick Test, Wingate anaerobic test, and jumping tests' variables were mostly "large". Elite taekwondo athletes showed greater taekwondo test performances compared with their sub-elite counterparts (p < 0.001). Receiving operating characteristic analysis indicated that the taekwondo specific test was able to effectively discriminate between elite and sub-elite taekwondo athletes. Overall, the findings of the current study support the concurrent validity of the Taekwondo Anaerobic Intermittent Kick Test. In particular, the Taekwondo Anaerobic Intermittent Kick Test showed good ability to effectively discriminate between taekwondo athletes of different competitive levels.		[Tayech, Amel; Mejri, Mohamed Arbi; Chaouachi, Mehdi; Hambli, Mourad; Chaouachi, Anis] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Tunisian Res Lab Sports Performance Optimizat, Ave Med Ali Akid,BP263, Tunis 1004, Tunisia; [Tayech, Amel; Mejri, Mohamed Arbi] Manouba Univ, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Tunis, Tunisia; [Chaouachi, Mehdi] Univ Rennes 2, ENS Cachan, Movement Sport & Hlth Sci Lab, Rennes, France; [Chaabene, Helmi] Univ Potsdam, Res Focus Cognit Sci, Div Training & Movement Sci, Neuen Palais 10, D-14469 Potsdam, Germany; [Chaabene, Helmi] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sports & Phys Educ, Kef, Tunisia; [Brughelli, Matt] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Behm, David G.; Chaouachi, Anis] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Mejri, Mohamed Arbi] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Tunisian Res Lab Sports Performance Optimizat, Ave Med Ali Akid,BP263, Tunis 1004, Tunisia								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900020	36	Article; Article		
J	Kubayi, Alliance								Analysis of Goal Scoring Patterns in the 2018 FIFA World Cup								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			205	210		10.2478/hukin-2019-0084			JAN 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to analyse the goal scoring patterns during the 2018 FIFA World Cup. All goals scored during the tournament were analysed using the InStat video analysis system. The results showed that 169 goals (open play: 60.9%; set play: 39.1%) were scored during the competition. While 85 goals (82.5%) were scored from elaborate attacks, 18 goals (17.5%) came from counter attacks. A chi-square test indicated that there was a significant difference in the type of possession (chi 2 (1, n = 103) = 43.58, p = 0.00). The highest number of goals was yielded from the final third (35%) as compared to the first (33%) and middle (32%) thirds. The results also indicated that most goals accounted from short passes (69.9%), while 13.6% of goals came from long passes and 16.5% from mixed passes (chi 2 (2, n = 103) = 62.12, p = 0.00). Soccer coaches should incorporate set pieces in their training sessions in view to improve goal-scoring opportunities.		[Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa								45							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900017	16	Article; Article		
J	Mikolajczyk, Rafal; Sikora, Marcin; Mikrut, Grzegorz; Zajac, Tomasz; Zebrowska, Aleksandra								Hormonal Response to Incremental and Continuous Exercise in Cyclists with Left Ventricle Hypertrophy								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			155	166		10.2478/hukin-2019-0120			JAN 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to assess the effects of incremental and continuous exercise on the concentration of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), growth hormone (GH), testosterone (T), and cortisol (C), as well as to investigate whether increased cardiac dimensions in cyclists were related to changes in these hormones and cardiac biomarkers. The study included 30 elite cyclists divided into two groups, i.e., athletes with left ventricle hypertrophy (a LVH group), and a control group (CG) without LVH. The study protocol included performance of a standard incremental exercise (IncEx) test to measure athletes' maximum power (Pmax), maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max), and lactate threshold (LAT). The IncEx test results were then used to determine the intensity of the continuous exercise (ConEx) test which was performed after the 1-week washout period. Cyclists with LVH and without LVH did not differ in resting hormone concentrations and cardiac biomarkers levels. There was a significant effect of exercise on serum IGF-1 levels (p < 0.05) in the LVH group and a combined effect of the type of exercise and LVH on IGF-1 (p < 0.05). Cyclists with LVH demonstrated higher post exercise T levels recorded in response to exercise compared to the CG (p < 0.01). Significantly higher serum T levels were observed in response to ConEx compared to IncEx in the LVH group and the CG (p < 0.05 and p < 0.05, respectively). In the LVH group, a significant positive correlation between the post-exercise T/C ratio and left ventricular mass index was observed (r = 0.98, p < 0.01). There were no effects of heart hypertrophy on cardiac standard biomarkers. Incremental and continuous exercise caused a marked increase in steroid hormone concentrations and moderate strengthening of insulin growth factors effects. Regular incremental exercise seems to induce beneficial cardiac adaptations via significant increases in the concentration of anabolic factors compared to the same training mode yet with constant exercise intensity.		[Mikolajczyk, Rafal; Sikora, Marcin] Acad Phys Educ, Dept Physiol & Med Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Mikrut, Grzegorz] Acad Phys Educ, Dept Sport & Tourism Management, Katowice, Poland; [Zajac, Tomasz] Acad Phys Educ, Human Performance Lab, Katowice, Poland; [Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska St 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Zebrowska, Aleksandra] Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Mikolowska St 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900013	33	Article; Article		
J	Ahn, Hyunkyun; Cho, Nam Ki; So, Wi-Young								Development of the Compulsive Exercising Scale for Extreme Sports Participants								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			285	298		10.2478/hukin-2019-0089			JAN 2020	2020	The purpose of this study was to develop a scale to measure extreme sports participants' levels of compulsive exercising. There are a number of compulsive exercising scales; however, none of them is targeted for extreme sports participants, whose emotional responses differ from those of non-extreme sports participants. Five hundred extreme sports participants were involved in this study, which included literature analysis, expert review, and exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis. Firstly, 95 items were selected from previous studies related to extreme sports and compulsive exercising. Secondly, nine experts scrutinized the content validity of the 95 items, and 82 items were found to be valid. Thirdly, the 82-item survey was initially administered to 253 participants for the purposes of exploratory factor analysis. Lastly, the 20-item survey that came out as a result of the 82 items being put through the exploratory factor analysis was distributed to the other 247 participants in the confirmatory factor analysis. In the final results, 16 items regarding the four factors of the "withdrawal symptom", "attachment", "struggle", and "obsession" were confirmed. The factors used to measure extreme sports participants' compulsiveness in this study reflect somewhat different dimensions from those developed in previous studies for non-extreme sports participants or exercisers. Only factors in the affective and behavioral dimensions are included in the present study's scale, while factors in the cognitive or the combined cognitive, affective, and behavioral dimensions were investigated in previous studies. This explains the need for the present study.		[Ahn, Hyunkyun] Myongji Coll, Art & Hlth Dept, Sport Leisure & Studies, Seoul, South Korea; [So, Wi-Young] Korea Natl Univ Transportat, Coll Humanities & Arts, Sports & Hlth Care Major, Chungju Si, South Korea; [So, Wi-Young] Korea Natl Univ Transportat, Coll Humanities & Arts, Sports & Hlth Care Major, Chungju Si, South Korea; [Cho, Nam Ki] Sookmyung Womens Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900025	62	Article; Article		
J	Kellis, Eleftherios; Ellinoudis, Athanasios; Intziegianni, Konstantina; Kofotolis, Nikolaos								Muscle Thickness During Core Stability Exercises in Children and Adults								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			131	144		10.2478/hukin-2019-0079			JAN 2020	2020	Core stability exercises are regular part of exercise programs for asymptomatic individuals across ages. The purpose of this study was to examine deep abdominal and multifidus muscle thickness in children and adults and to determine reliability of the rehabilitative ultrasound (RUSI) imaging. Transversus abdominis and lumbar multifidus thickness at rest and during core stability exercise were examined in pre-pubertal children (N = 23), adolescents (N = 20), young adults (N = 21) and middle-aged adults (N = 22). Thirty-nine participants were re-tested one week after to establish reliability. Muscle thickness at rest was lower in children and adolescents compared with young and middle-aged adults (p < 0.008). Young adults displayed the highest relative transversus abdominis thickness upon contraction (p < 0.008). Lumbar multfidus contraction thickness was greater in young-adults than middle-aged adults and prepubertal children (p < 0.008), but it was similar between young-adults and adolescents (p > 0.008). Reliability was high for both muscles (ICC3,3 = 0.76 - 0.99). The age-related differences in muscle thickness indicate that core stability exercises may be beneficial for children and middle-aged adults.		[Kellis, Eleftherios; Ellinoudis, Athanasios; Kofotolis, Nikolaos] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci Serres, Lab Neuromech, Serres, Greece; [Intziegianni, Konstantina] Univ Potsdam, Sports Med & Sports Orthoped, Univ Outpatient Clin, Neuen Palais 10,Haus 12, D-14469 Potsdam, Germany; [Kellis, Eleftherios] TEFAA Serres, Kinesiol, Agios Ioannis 62100, Serres, Greece								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900011	50	Article; Article		
J	Keogh, Ciaran; Collins, D. J.; Warrington, Giles; Comyns, Tom								Intra-Trial Reliability and Usefulness of Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull Testing on Portable Force Plates								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			33	45		10.2478/hukin-2019-0094			JAN 2020	2020	The aim of this study was to assess the intra-trial reliability and usefulness of portable force plates and a customised Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull rig. Twenty males (age: 24.1 +/- 2.5 years, body height: 177.7 +/- 0.09 cm, body mass: 88.4 +/- 17.9 kg) with weightlifting experience +/- 12 months attended 1 familiarisation session and 1 testing session where 4 isometric mid-thigh pulls were performed. Maximum force, absolute peak force (PF), relative PF, allometrically scaled PF, and force (150, 200, 250 ms) were deemed reliable (ICC >= 0.91 and CV <= 9.8%) based on predetermined criteria (ICC >= 0.8 and CV <= 10%). The impulse and the rate of force development (RFD) were deemed unreliable (ICC <= 0.91 and CV >= 10 %) at all time points. Maximum force, absolute PF, relative PF to body weight and body mass, rand allometrically scaled PF, had a typical error (TE) lower than the smallest worthwhile change small effect (SWC0.2) and moderate effect (SWC0.5) and were rated as good with regard to usefulness. The TE for force at selected time points (150, 200, 250 ms) was also higher than the SWC0.2, achieving a rating of marginal, but TE was higher than SWC0.5, achieving a rating of good with regard to usefulness. Portable force plates and customised rigs can reliably determine peak force and force output at different time points and for detecting the SWC in maximum and absolute force measures, greater familiarisation may be required to establish reliability of other variables such as the impulse and the RFD.		[Keogh, Ciaran; Collins, D. J.; Warrington, Giles; Comyns, Tom] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Keogh, Ciaran] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900004	33	Article; Article		
J	Angelakos, Ioannis; Mills, Chris; O'Halloran, Joseph								The Effects of Compression Garments on Stability and Lower Limb Kinematics During a Forward Lunge								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			59	68		10.2478/hukin-2019-0074			JAN 2020	2020	Compression garments have been used to minimise injury risk, through improvements in stability and joint positioning; yet, it is unclear whether there is an optimal length or tightness of these garments that may maximise observed benefits. This study measured the effect of three different garment types, at two different tightness levels, on lower extremity stability and alignment during a forward lunge movement. Sixteen healthy adults (7 female, 9 male; 24.3 +/- 2.9 years) were recruited as participants. Stability of the lead foot, as well as lower body joint kinematics, were recorded using an Oqus 12-camera system, surrounding participants as they executed three forward lunges onto a Matscan pressure mat under seven compression conditions (Control, Light/Heavy Calf Light/Heavy Socks, Light/Heavy Leggings). Mean minimum time-to-boundary (mmTtB) (derived from centre of pressure measures) and frontal plane kinematics (lateral pelvic tilt, knee valgus, ankle inversion/eversion) were used to assess the effect of garment tightness and length on lunge stability and joint alignment, respectively. A significant effect of tightness on mmTtB was observed (F-(1,F-105)= 8.192; p = .005, eta(2) = .072), with Heavy garments eliciting longer mmTtB compared to their corresponding Light (-.18 +/- .06 s; p = .015) or Control (-.28 +/- .09 s; p = .007) conditions. No significant effects of garment tightness or length on lower body kinematics were evident. The results of this study suggest stability during a forward lunge is improved through the use of tight fitted compression garments.		[Angelakos, Ioannis; Mills, Chris; O'Halloran, Joseph] Univ Portsmouth, Sch Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Spinnaker Bldg,Cambridge Rd, Portsmouth PO1 2ER, Hants, England; [O'Halloran, Joseph] Univ Portsmouth, Sch Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Spinnaker Bldg,Cambridge Rd, Portsmouth PO1 2ER, Hants, England								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900006	29	Article; Article		
J	Cheatham, Scott W.; Stull, Kyle R.; Batts, Wendy N.; Ambler-Wright, Tony								Roller Massage: Comparing the Immediate Post-Treatment Effects Between an Instructional Video and a Self-Preferred Program Using Two Different Density-Type Roller Balls								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			119	129		10.2478/hukin-2019-0077			JAN 2020	2020	The aims of this study were to (1) compare the immediate post-treatment effects of an instructional video versus a self-preferred program on the hip range of motion and a pressure pain threshold using two different density roller balls, and (2) compare the effects of the two roller balls on those variables. Forty adults were randomly allocated into four groups: (1) MB1-video, (2) MB1-self-preferred, (3) MBX-video, and (4) MBX-self-preferred. Participants followed a video or a self-preferred program using either a moderate (MB1) or a hard (MBX) density ball. Main outcomes were passive hip internal rotation, external rotation, and a pressure pain threshold. For MB1, the video produced greater outcomes than the self-program for external rotation (10 degrees versus 2 degrees), internal rotation (7 degrees versus 2 degrees), and the pain threshold (210 kPa versus 44 kPa). For MBX, the video produced greater outcomes than the self-program for external rotation (8 degrees versus 1 degrees), internal rotation (5 degrees versus 1 degrees), and the pain threshold (184 kPa versus 30 kPa). When comparing roller balls, the MB1 produced greater outcomes than the MBX for external rotation (10 degrees versus 8 degrees), internal rotation (7 degrees versus 5 degrees), and the pain threshold (210 kPa versus 184 kPa) with the video. For the self-preferred program, the MB1 produced greater outcomes for external rotation (2 degrees versus 10 degrees), internal rotation (2 degrees versus 1 degrees), and the pain threshold (44 kPa versus 30 kPa). The instructional video and a moderate density ball produced greater immediate post-treatment outcomes than the self-program and a hard density ball. Professionals should consider using the video to teach technique and match clients to a specific density-type roller ball.		[Cheatham, Scott W.] Calif State Univ Dominguez Hills, 1000 E Victoria St, Carson, CA 90747 USA; [Stull, Kyle R.] Natl Acad Sports Med, Chandler, AZ USA; [Batts, Wendy N.] Calif Univ Penn, California, PA USA; [Ambler-Wright, Tony] Fusionetics, Milton, MA USA; [Cheatham, Scott W.] Calif State Univ Dominguez Hills, 1000 E Victoria St, Carson, CA 90747 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900010	28	Article; Article		
J	Roberts, Brandon M.; Helms, Eric R.; Trexler, Eric T.; Fitschen, Peter J.								Nutritional Recommendations for Physique Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			79	108		10.2478/hukin-2019-0096			JAN 2020	2020	The popularity of physique sports is increasing, yet there are currently few comprehensive nutritional guidelines for these athletes. Physique sport now encompasses more than just a short phase before competition and offseason guidelines have recently been published. Therefore, the goal of this review is to provide an extensive guide for male and female physique athletes in the contest preparation and recovery period. As optimal protein intake is largely related to one's skeletal muscle mass, current evidence supports a range of 1.8-2.7 g/kg. Furthermore, as a benefit from having adequate carbohydrate to fuel performance and activity, low-end fat intake during contest preparation of 10-25% of calories allows for what calories remain in the "energy budget" to come from carbohydrate to mitigate the negative impact of energy restriction and weight loss on training performance. For nutrient timing, we recommend consuming four or five protein boluses per day with one consumed near training and one prior to sleep. During competition periods, slower rates of weight loss (<= 0.5% of body mass per week) are preferable for attenuating the loss of fat-free mass with the use of intermittent energy restriction strategies, such as diet breaks and refeeds, being possibly beneficial. Additionally, physiological and psychological factors are covered, and potential best-practice guidelines are provided for disordered eating and body image concerns since physique athletes present with higher incidences of these issues, which may be potentially exacerbated by certain traditional physique practices. We also review common peaking practices, and the critical transition to the post-competition period.		[Roberts, Brandon M.] Strength Guys, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA; [Helms, Eric R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Trexler, Eric T.] Trexler Fitness LLC, Raleigh, NC USA; [Fitschen, Peter J.] FitBody & Phys LLC, Stevens Point, WI USA; [Roberts, Brandon M.] Strength Guys, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA								56							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900008	204	Article; Article		
J	Pagaduan, Jeffrey C.; Pojskic, Haris								A Meta-Analysis on the Effect of Complex Training on Vertical Jump Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				71	1			255	265		10.2478/hukin-2019-0087			JAN 2020	2020	Complex training (CT) is a strength training intervention performed by completing all the sets of a resistance exercise followed by a series of high-velocity/plyometric exercise/s. The purpose of this novel study was to conduct a meta-analysis on the effect of CT on vertical jump (VJ) performance. Five electronic databases were searched using terms related to CT and the VJ. Studies needed to include randomized trials comparing CT with traditional resistance training (RT)/plyometric training (PLYO)/control (CON) lasting >= 4 weeks and the VJ as a dependent variable. Seven studies qualified for the meta-analysis with two studies differentiating VJ performance from CT and RT, two studies comparing VJ performance of CT and PLYO, and two studies establishing the difference in VJ performance between CT and CON. Results indicated similar improvement in VJ performance from CT and RT (p = 0.88). On the other hand, greater VJ performance in CT than PLYO was identified (ES = 0.86; 95% CI 0.24, 1.47; p = 0.01). CT also showed significantly greater enhancement in VJ compared to CON (ES = 1.14; 95% CI 0.60, 1.68; p < 0.01). In conclusion, CT can serve as alternative training from RT in improving VJ performance. On the other hand, CT is a better option in VJ enhancement than PLYO and CON.		[Pagaduan, Jeffrey C.] Univ Tasmania, Sch Hlth Sci, Coll Hlth & Med, Newnham Campus, Launceston, Tas, Australia; [Pojskic, Haris] Linnaeus Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Kalmar, Sweden; [Pagaduan, Jeffrey C.] Univ Tasmania, Sch Hlth Sci, Coll Hlth & Med, Newnham Campus, Launceston, Tas, Australia								34							Sport Sciences	WOS:000513916900022	24	Article; Article		
J	Ackerman, Ilana N.; Bohensky, Megan A.; Kemp, Joanne L.; de Steiger, Richard								Quantifying the likelihood and costs of hip replacement surgery after sports injury: A population-level analysis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				41				9	15		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.10.008			JAN 2020	2020	Objectives: To quantify the likelihood of hip replacement (HR) surgery at a population level up to 15 years after sports injury. Design: Cohort study. Settings: Public and private hospitals in the state of Victoria, Australia. Participants: The cohort was established by linking administrative datasets capturing all hospital admissions and emergency department (ED) presentations. All sports injury presentations from 2000 to 2005 and HR admissions from 2000 to 2015 were identified using ICD-10-AM codes. Main outcome measures: Time to HR (number of days from sports injury admission to HR admission). Results: Over the study period there were 64,750 sports injuries (including 815 hip or thigh musculoskeletal injuries) that resulted in ED presentation or hospitalisation, and 368 HR procedures. Compared to all other sports injuries, having a hip or thigh injury tripled the hazard of subsequent HR in multivariate analysis (hazard ratio 3.07, 95%CI 2.00-4.72). Of the main hip or thigh injury types, femoral fractures (hazard ratio 3.08, 95%CI 1.77-5.36) and hip dislocations (hazard ratio 5.64, 95%CI 2.34-13.58) were significantly associated with HR. Conclusion: Sports-related hip or thigh musculoskeletal injury is associated with a significantly higher likelihood of HR within 15 years. Effective injury prevention and appropriate post-injury management are needed to curtail this population burden. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ackerman, Ilana N.] Monash Univ, Sch Publ Hlth & Prevent Med, 553 St Kilda Rd, Melbourne, Vic 3004, Australia; [Ackerman, Ilana N.; Bohensky, Megan A.] Univ Melbourne, Royal Melbourne Hosp, Dept Med, Parkville, Vic 3050, Australia; [Kemp, Joanne L.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sports & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [de Steiger, Richard] Epworth HealthCare, 89 Bridge Rd, Richmond, Vic 3121, Australia; [de Steiger, Richard] Univ Melbourne, Dept Surg, Parkville, Vic 3010, Australia; [de Steiger, Richard] Australian Orthopaed Assoc, Natl Joint Replacement Registry, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia; [Ackerman, Ilana N.] Monash Univ, Sch Publ Hlth & Prevent Med, 553 St Kilda Rd, Melbourne, Vic 3004, Australia								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509630600002	35	Article; Article		
J	Simon, Janet E.; Millikan, Nathan; Yom, Jae; Grooms, Dustin R.								Neurocognitive challenged hops reduced functional performance relative to traditional hop testing								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				41				97	102		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.12.002			JAN 2020	2020	Objective: Determine the relationship between four foundational single-leg hop tests and respective neurocognitive single-leg hop tests. Design: Cross-sectional; Setting: University gymnasium. Patients or other participants: Twenty-two participants (9 Male, 13 Female, 20.9 +/- 2.5 years, 171.2 +/- 11.7 cm, 70.3 +/- 11.0 kg) were recruited. Maximum distance was measured for three hop tests (single-leg hop, single-leg crossover hop, single-leg triple hop) and fastest time was measured for the fourth (single-leg 6-m hop) for traditional and neurocognitive conditions. Main outcome measures: Pearson correlations were conducted to assess the relationship between the new neurocognitive hop and the analogous traditional hop. One repeated measures MANOVA was conducted for each leg to determine the difference in hop performance between hop conditions (traditional and neurocognitive) for the dependent variables. Alpha level was set at alpha < 0.05. Results: Correlations ranged from 0.86 to 0.92 between traditional and neurocognitive hop tests. The repeated measures MANOVA was significant for condition for both legs (p < 0.05). Specifically, the crossover hop (average percent decrease 10.37%), triple hop (average percent decrease 7.13%), and 6-m hop (average percent decrease 81.67%) were statistically different between traditional and neurocognitive conditions (p < 0.05). Conclusion: The addition of neurocognitive reactive and anticipatory components to simulate more sport specific scenarios may improve functional testing for return to sport. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Simon, Janet E.; Millikan, Nathan; Yom, Jae; Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, E150 Grover Ctr, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Simon, Janet E.] Ohio Univ, E150 Grover Ctr, Athens, OH 45701 USA								34							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509630600015	43	Article; Article		
J	Nissim, Netanel; Sela, Aner								The Third Place Game								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	1			64	86		10.1177/1527002519859415			JAN 2020	2020	We study an elimination tournament with four contestants, each of whom has either a high value of winning (a strong player) or a low value of winning (a weak player) and these values are common knowledge. Each pairwise match is modeled as an all-pay auction. The winners of the first stage (semifinal) compete in the second stage (final) for the first prize, while the losers of the first stage compete for the third prize. We examine whether or not the game for the third prize is profitable for the designer who wishes to maximize the total effort of the players. We demonstrate that if the players are asymmetric and there are at least two strong players, then there is always a seeding of the players such that the third place game is not profitable. On the other hand, if there are at least two weak players, then there is always a seeding of the players such that the third place game is profitable.		[Nissim, Netanel; Sela, Aner] Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Dept Econ, IL-84105 Beer Sheva, Israel; [Sela, Aner] Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Dept Econ, IL-84105 Beer Sheva, Israel								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000498074600004	24	Article; Article		
J	Hofstede, H.; Franke, T. P. C.; van Eijk, R. P. A.; Backx, F. J. G.; Kemler, E.; Huisstede, B. M. A.								In training for a marathon: Runners and running-related injury prevention								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				41				80	86		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.11.006			JAN 2020	2020	Objective: To investigate which preventive measures runners use when preparing for a half- or full-marathon and whether the use of these measures at baseline and during the preparation-period differs between runners who sustained no/non-substantial running-related injuries (NSIRs) or substantial running-related injuries (SIRS). Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: 16-week period before the Utrecht Marathon. Participants: Runners who subscribed for the half- or full-marathon. Main outcome measures: The occurrence of RRIs was registered every 2-weeks, using the Dutch version of the Oslo Sport Trauma Research Center (OSTRC) questionnaire on Health Problems. The OSTRC was used to differentiate between runners with SIRs (question 2/3 score>12) and NSIRs (question 2/3 score<13). The use of different preventive measures, was registered every 4-weeks. Results: 51.6% of the runners reported at least one RRI in the 12-months prior to this study (history of RRIs). The SIRs with a history of RRIs more often asked for running shoe advice than NSIRs with a history of RRIs (67.9%vs43.4%, P < 0.05); 18.9% of the SIRs with a history of RRIs used supportive materials for knee and/or ankle versus 0% of NSIRs with a history of RRIs (P < 0.05). Conclusion: SIRS with a history of RRIs might be using their preventive measures for symptom reduction or secondary prevention. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hofstede, H.; Franke, T. P. C.; Backx, F. J. G.; Huisstede, B. M. A.] Univ Utrecht, Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Dept Rehabil Phys Therapy Sci & Sports, Brain Ctr, POB 85500, NL-3508 GA Utrecht, Netherlands; [van Eijk, R. P. A.] Univ Utrecht, Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Dept Neurol, Brain Ctr, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Kemler, E.] Consumer Safety Inst VeiligheidNL, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Huisstede, B. M. A.] Univ Utrecht, Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Dept Rehabil Phys Therapy Sci & Sports, Brain Ctr, POB 85500, NL-3508 GA Utrecht, Netherlands								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509630600012	25	Article; Article		
J	Baquet, Ari; Mazzone, Brittney; Yoder, Adam; Farrokhi, Shawn								Conversion to a rearfoot strike pattern during running for prevention of recurrent calf strains: A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				41				64	70		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.11.004			JAN 2020	2020	Background: Running-related injuries are prevalent musculoskeletal complaints in the United States military. Although, run retraining is an extensively researched method for reducing pain and improving function in runners, its clinical utility remains low. Case description: The patient had a seven-year history of recurrent right calf strains. Prior conventional physical therapy failed to resolve symptoms. A biomechanical running analysis revealed a right forefoot strike during running. The patient underwent run retraining that included real-time visual feedback and a faded feedback strategy focused on converting foot strike pattern to rearfoot. Running mechanics were reassessed post-training, and at one and six months post-training. Outcomes: Foot strike pattern was successfully converted to rearfoot strike and was maintained up to six months post-training. Reductions in peak ankle dorsiflexion moment and dorsiflexion velocity were noted up to six months post-training. Self-reported function also improved by 20-30% and no calf strains were reported up to six months post-training. Discussion: This case report details the clinical reasoning and evidence-informed interventions involved in treatment of a patient with chronic calf strains. The management strategy was intended to reduce eccentric calf demands, which allowed the patient to tolerate increased running frequency without any further episodes of calf strains up to six months post-training. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Baquet, Ari] Univ Southern Calif, Los Angeles, CA 90007 USA; [Mazzone, Brittney; Yoder, Adam; Farrokhi, Shawn] DoD VA Extrem Trauma & Amputat Ctr Excellence, Falls Church, VA USA; [Mazzone, Brittney; Yoder, Adam; Farrokhi, Shawn] Naval Med Ctr San Diego, San Diego, CA USA; [Mazzone, Brittney] 34800 Bob Wilson Dr, San Diego, CA 92134 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509630600010	46	Article; Article		
J	Fares, Mohamad Y.; Salhab, Hamza A.; Khachfe, Hussein H.; Kane, Liam; Fares, Youssef; Fares, Jawad; Abboud, Joseph A.								Upper limb injuries in Major League Baseball								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				41				49	54		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.11.002			JAN 2020	2020	Objectives: To explore the patterns and trends of upper limb injuries in Major League Baseball (MLB). Design: Descriptive Epidemiological Study. Setting: The MLB website was screened for injuries between 2010 and 2016, inclusive. Participants: Players that were placed on the Injured Lists (IL) due to upper limb injuries. Main outcome measures: The players' position, injury location, injury information, date of injury, and time spent on the IL were collected. Results: A total of 3512 injuries were documented; 1609 injuries (49%) affected the upper limb (n = 1609). On average, players were placed on the IL for 71 days (std dev = 57 days) due to these injuries. The shoulder was the anatomic location most prone to injury (35%). The elbow had the highest average days on IL (94 days; std dev = 63 days), significantly higher than all other anatomic locations (P < 0.001). Strain was the most cited cause for upper limb injuries. Pitchers had a significantly higher mean incidence rate (MIR) than fielders and catchers for shoulder, elbow, arm, and forearm injuries. Pitchers had significantly lower wrist and hand injury MIR5 when compared to fielders and catchers. April had the highest burden of injuries with 380 injuries (24%) recorded. Surgery was performed on 225 injuries (14%). Conclusion: Upper limb injuries are prevalent in the MLB, especially among pitchers. The shoulder is the anatomic location most prone to injury. Better understanding of the trends and patterns of these injuries will help in establishing better prevention policies. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Fares, Mohamad Y.; Kane, Liam; Abboud, Joseph A.] Thomas Jefferson Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Rothman Inst, Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA; [Fares, Mohamad Y.; Salhab, Hamza A.; Khachfe, Hussein H.] Amer Univ Beirut, Fac Med, Beirut, Lebanon; [Fares, Mohamad Y.; Salhab, Hamza A.; Khachfe, Hussein H.; Fares, Youssef] Lebanese Univ, Fac Med, Neurosci Res Ctr, Beirut, Lebanon; [Fares, Jawad] Northwestern Univ, Dept Neurol Surg, Feinberg Sch Med, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Fares, Jawad] Northwestern Univ, Dept Neurol Surg, Feinberg Sch Med, Chicago, IL 60611 USA								28							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509630600008	36	Article; Article		
J	Finlay, Christina; Dobbin, Nick; Jones, Gareth								The epidemiology of injuries in adult amateur rowers: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				41				29	33		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.11.001			JAN 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate the prevalence, nature and factors associated with injury among adult amateur rowers. Design: Retrospective cross-sectional study. Setting: UK-based amateur rowing clubs. Participants: 160 amateur rowers. Main outcome measures: Frequency, type, location, severity and rowing-related factors associated with injury. Results: Injury rate was 5.7 per 1000 sessions, with no effect of sex (chi(2) = 0.195, P = 0.659) or weight class (chi(2) = 0.800, P = 0.371). The lower-back demonstrated an epidemiological incidence proportion (IP) of 0.39 (95%CI = 0.33 to 0.46). The IP for water- and land-based training was 0.39 (95%CI = 0.31 to 0.47) and 0.57 (95%CI = 0.49 to 0.65), respectively. IP was highest between January and March (0.13-0.15), whilst time loss was 0.49 (95%CI = 0.42-0.57). The IP for 'overuse' and 'traumatic' injuries was 0.71 (95% CI = 0.65 to 0.78) and 0.22 (95%CI = 0.16 to 0.27), respectively. Training volume was positively associated with injury rate (r = 0.418, P < 0.001). Conclusions: Injury rates appear higher among amateur rowers with the most common injury site being the lower-back. Our results suggest several contextual factors influence injury risk including seasonal phase, training type and training volume. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Finlay, Christina; Jones, Gareth] Leeds Beckett Univ, Sch Clin & Appl Sci, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Dobbin, Nick] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Hlth Profess, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Finlay, Christina] Glasgow Warriors, 112 Danes Dr, Glasgow G14 9HD, Lanark, Scotland								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509630600005	25	Article; Article		
J	Selhorst, Mitchell; Hoehn, Jessica; Degenhart, Todd; Schmitt, Laura; Fernandez-Fernandez, Alicia								Psychologically-informed video reduces maladaptive beliefs in adolescents with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				41				23	28		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.10.009			JAN 2020	2020	Objectives: To test the hypothesis that a brief psychologically-informed video can reduce maladaptive psychological beliefs in adolescents with patellofemoral pain. Design: Case series. Setting: Pediatric Outpatient Hospital. Participants: Twenty adolescents receiving physical therapy for patellofemoral pain (14 +/- 1.7 years, 50% female), 3 participants were lost to follow-up at 2 weeks. Main outcome measures: None. Results: The baseline FABA-PA score was 12.0 +/- 5, TSK-11 was 22.1 +/- 4.0 and the PCS-c was 14.3 +/- 8. Immediate reductions in FABQ-PA (mean difference = 4.52, 95% CI 1.99, 7.07; 32% reduction), TSK-11 (mean difference = 5.06, 95% CI 1.88, 8.24; 22% reduction) and PCS-c (mean difference = 3.65, 95% CI 0.62, 6.68; 26% reduction) were observed immediately post-video intervention (p < 0.01). At 2 weeks, these maladaptive beliefs remained lowered. Conclusions: This study provides preliminary evidence that incorporating a brief one-time psychologically-informed video into standard physical therapy care may significantly reduce maladaptive psychological beliefs in adolescents with patellofemoral pain. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Selhorst, Mitchell; Degenhart, Todd] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Sports & Orthoped Phys Therapy, Columbus, OH USA; [Hoehn, Jessica] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Dept Pediat Psychol & Neuropsychol, Columbus, OH USA; [Schmitt, Laura] Ohio State Univ, Wexner Med Ctr, Jameson Crane Sports Med Res Inst, Columbus, OH USA; [Schmitt, Laura] Ohio State Univ, Div Phys Therapy, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Alicia] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Selhorst, Mitchell] 6499 East Broad St,Suite 140, Columbus, OH 43213 USA								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509630600004	46	Article; Article		
J	Hart, Harvi F.; Culvenor, Adam G.; Guermazi, Ali; Crossley, Kay M.								Worse knee confidence, fear of movement, psychological readiness to return-to-sport and pain are associated with worse function after ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				41				1	8		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.10.006			JAN 2020	2020	Objectives: To determine whether knee confidence, fear of movement, psychological readiness to return-to-sport or pain are associated with patient-reported and performance-based function and return to pivoting sport in individuals one-year after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University-laboratory. Participants: 118 individuals one-year post-ACLR. Main outcome measures: The KOOS-sport/recreation and IKDC and three hopping tasks were used to assess patient-reported and performance-based function, respectively. Questions regarding return to pivoting sport assessed return-to-sport status. Fear of movement (Tampa Scale), knee confidence (an item from KOOS, Visual Analogue Scale-VAS confidence during hopping tasks), knee pain (KOOS-pain, VAS pain during hopping tasks) and psychological readiness to return-to-sport (ACL-RSI) were also assessed. Results: Worse fear of movement (p = 0.019), KOOS-pain (p < 0.001), ACL-RSI (p < 0.001), task-specific knee confidence and pain were associated with poorer patient-reported function. Worse task-specific knee confidence (p < 0.001) and pain (p < 0006) and ACL-RSI (p < 0.016) were associated with poorer performance-based function. Higher ACL-RSI scores were associated with higher odds of returning to pivoting sport one-year post-ACLR (p < 0.001). Conclusion: Individual's fear of movement, knee confidence, psychological readiness to return-to-sport and pain are related to function. Evaluating and considering knee confidence, fear of movement, and psychological readiness should be an important part of comprehensive post-ACLR rehabilitation. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Hart, Harvi F.] Western Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Collaborat Training Program Musculoskeletal Hlth, Dept Phys Therapy,Bone & Joint Inst, London, ON, Canada; [Hart, Harvi F.; Culvenor, Adam G.; Crossley, Kay M.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Guermazi, Ali] Boston Univ, Sch Med, Dept Radiol, Boston, MA 02215 USA; [Crossley, Kay M.] La Trobe Univ, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, Sch Allied Hlth, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								71							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000509630600001	33	Article; Article		
J	Keaney, Eliza M.; Reid, Machar								Quantifying hitting activity in tennis with racket sensors: new dawn or false dawn?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				19	6			831	839		10.1080/14763141.2018.1535619			2020	2020	The non-invasive measurement of movement through sensor technologies is common in elite sport, yet only recently become possible in tennis. This study validated two commercial tennis racquet sensors compared to gold standards in VICON and expert notational analysis. One national-level male tennis player hit 24 shots (9 forehands and 9 backhands, hit with heavy topspin, flat and slice; 6 serves) using a Babolat Play racket with a Zepp sensor. Measures of shot type, impact location and racket speed were compared against those captured by a 500-Hz 12 camera VICON system. Cohen's kappa (.) and a weighted kappa (K-w) assessed the accuracy of stroke classification and impact location, respectively, and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) validated sensor-derived racket speed. Both sensors recorded the same total stroke volume as VICON, while Zepp racket speed displayed near perfect agreement with VICON (ICC = 0.983; p < 0.001). They exhibited moderate agreement with true stroke classification (Babolat: K = 0.730; Zepp:. = 0.612) and minimal agreement with true impact location (Babolat: K-w = 0.412; Zepp: K-w = 0.217). During match play, both sensors achieved near perfect accuracy for stroke volume but experienced difficulty discriminating the different stroke types. In sum, the Babolat Play and Zepp determined stroke volume and intensity accurately but were less effective in identifying specific strokes and impact locations.		[Keaney, Eliza M.] AFL Northern Terr, Game Dev, Darwin, NT, Australia; [Reid, Machar] Tennis Australia, Game Insight Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Reid, Machar] Tennis Australia, Game Insight Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								23							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000595624900001	29	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Jiling; Xiang, Ping; McBride, Ron E.; Juzaily, Nasnoor								Perceived coach supports and at-risk boys' motivation at a summer sports camp: A commonality analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	2			146	156	1747954119897521	10.1177/1747954119897521			APR 2020	2020	Guided by Self-Determination Theory, this study examined the relative importance of perceived coach supports in facilitating at-risk boys' motivation toward physical activity. Participants were 76 at-risk boys (M-age = 11.87 years, SD = 1.22) at a summer sports camp in the southwestern USA. Data were collected using two established questionnaires and analyzed through commonality analysis. Perceived supports for autonomy, competence, and relatedness together explained 25.5% of variance in autonomous motivation, and perceived competence support was the most powerful predictor. In predicting amotivation (R-2 = .19, p < .001), perceived competence support and perceived relatedness support were significant individual predictors while perceived autonomy support emerged as a suppressor. Perceived competence support appeared to be the strongest predictor of autonomous motivation, and the three supports were all important to diminishing amotivation. The results suggest that in similar physical activity settings, coaches should provide supports for competency, connectedness, and autonomy among participants.		[Liu, Jiling; Xiang, Ping; McBride, Ron E.; Juzaily, Nasnoor] Texas A&M Univ, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Liu, Jiling] Texas A&M Univ, College Stn, TX 77843 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000506785800001	54	Article; Article		
J	Park, Jinwoo; Kim, Minhong; Nauright, John; Kim, Young Hoon								Sport event tourists' (SET's) behavior: a case study of the PyeongChang Winter Olympics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				21	2			267	284		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2019-0101			MAY 4 2020	2020	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine the relationships among athlete star power, enjoyment and revisit intention of sport event tourists in a sport mega-event (SME). Design/methodology/approach This study was conducted in the context of 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympic Games. A total of 419 respondents completed a survey. Structural equation modeling was used to analyze the data. Findings This study proved the final structure model fit well by having the values and scores higher than the minimum cutoff in all categories. Path coefficients indicate that H1a, H1c and H2 were supported while H1b was not supported by the analysis. In addition, enjoyment partially mediated the relationship between athlete star power and revisit intentions. In particular, two mediating effects were found: enjoyment mediated trustworthiness and revisit intention and expertise and revisit intention. However, enjoyment did not mediate the relationship between attractiveness and revisit intentions. Originality/value This study adds the literature on sport event research. Although there were a few studies on the effect of athlete star power, a dearth of research examined the relationships among athlete star power (trustworthiness, attractiveness and expertise), enjoyment and revisit intention. These results are valuable to SME managers to increase the propensity of tourists' revisit intention at sport mega-event by understanding the factors that lead to increased tourist enjoyment.		[Park, Jinwoo; Kim, Young Hoon] Univ North Texas, Dept Hospitality & Tourism Management, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Kim, Minhong] Univ North Texas, Dept Kinesiol, Denton, TX 76203 USA; [Nauright, John] Lock Haven Univ Penn, Stephen Poorman Coll Business Informat Syst & Hum, Lock Haven, PA USA; [Kim, Young Hoon] Univ North Texas, Dept Hospitality & Tourism Management, Denton, TX 76203 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000506951200001	102	Article; Article		
J	Sim, Min Kyu; Choi, Dong Gu								The Winning Probability of a Game and the Importance of Points in Tennis Matches								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			361	372		10.1080/02701367.2019.1666203			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: This study builds a stochastic model of a discrete-time Markov chain (DTMC) that fits well with a dataset of professional playing records. Methods: The point-by-point dataset of Men's single matches played in the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) tour from 2011 to 2015 is analyzed. A long-debated assumption on the iid-ness in the point winning probability of the server is statistically tested. A DTMC model is then developed to analyze the dataset further. Results: The statistical test results indicate that the identicality of point winning probabilities is not a valid assumption. For example, the server's point winning probability from scores 40:0, 30:15, 15:30, and 0:40 are significantly different. On the other hand, the independence is a generally valid assumption except for 40:15 where who won the previous point influences the point winning probability. Game winning probabilities and the importance of each point in winning a game are analyzed using the DTMC model by court surfaces and player groups of the different levels of serve effectiveness. Conclusion: Extensive empirical validation concludes unsealed debates over the stochastic models for tennis. The presented results reveal interesting properties in professional tennis matches.		[Sim, Min Kyu] Seoul Natl Univ Sci & Technol, Seoul, South Korea; [Choi, Dong Gu] Pohang Univ Sci & Technol, Pohang, South Korea; [Choi, Dong Gu] Pohang Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Ind & Management Engn, Pohang, South Korea								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000503137400001	20	Article; Article		
J	Miteva, Silvia; Yanev, Iliya; Kolimechkov, Stefan; Petrov, Lubomir; Mladenov, Lubomir; Georgieva, Veneta; Somlev, Petar								Nutrition and body composition of elite rhythmic gymnasts from Bulgaria								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	1			108	116	1747954119892803	10.1177/1747954119892803			FEB 2020	2020	Rhythmic gymnastics is a sport in which special consideration is given to diet and body appearance. The purpose of this study was to assess the nutrient intake and body composition of elite rhythmic gymnasts in comparison with guidelines for female gymnasts. Twenty-one elite rhythmic gymnasts from Bulgaria were divided into three groups: First National Team, mean age 24.2; Second National Team, mean age 17.8; and Junior National Team, mean age 12.6. Body fat and muscle mass were estimated by skinfold methods, and a food frequency questionnaire was applied to assess the nutrient intake. The gymnasts showed low per cent of body fat (13.9% for the First National Team, 17.0% for the Second National Team, and 15.6% for the Junior National Team) and high per cent muscle mass (44.0, 40.5, and 37.6%, respectively). They kept their weight close to the ideal one, as recommended by the coaches, and the following equation best corresponded to the recommended ideal weight: height (cm) - 118. The energy intake was lower than the calculated energy requirements, in addition to low intake of fat and carbohydrates. The relative protein intake was 1.7 g/kg for the First National Team, 1.7 g/kg for the Second National Team, and 1.9 g/kg for Junior National Team, and the energy contribution of proteins was higher than the recommended 15%. Rhythmic gymnasts should be encouraged to maintain their ideal weight without great variance from the health-related guidelines, and coaches should consider not only the body image, but also the norms relating to body composition in women when determining ideal weight.		[Miteva, Silvia; Yanev, Iliya] Natl Sports Acad, Dept Gymnast, Sofia, Bulgaria; [Kolimechkov, Stefan; Petrov, Lubomir] Natl Sports Acad, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Sofia, Bulgaria; [Mladenov, Lubomir; Georgieva, Veneta] Natl Sports Acad, Dept Sports Med, Sofia, Bulgaria; [Somlev, Petar] Med Univ Sofia, Dept Physiol, Sofia, Bulgaria; [Kolimechkov, Stefan] Elite Gymnast Acad CIC, 46 Kingsmead Barnet, London EN5 5AY, England								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000501042900001	55	Article; Article		
J	Kompf, Justin								The Use of Text Messages for Exercise Behavior Change Techniques								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	6			87	90		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000483			DEC 2019	2019	Behavior change techniques (BCT) may be applied in several different ways with different methods of delivery, such as face-to-face, through print, or with the use of technology. Predominant determinants of exercise behavior include self-regulatory skills and self-efficacy. The use of text (SMS) messages is a candidate for the medium of BCT delivery because of its ease and frequency of use. If personal trainers and coaches are to effectively use SMS messages to deliver behavior change techniques for exercise, they should understand how to frame these messages based on the client's or athlete's individual characteristics.		[Kompf, Justin] Univ Massachusetts, Boston, MA 02125 USA; [Kompf, Justin] Univ Massachusetts, Boston, MA 02125 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509687000008	15	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Anthony N.; Jones, Ben; Stewart, Perry; Bishop, Chris; Parmar, Nimai; Chavda, Shyam; Read, Paul								Total Score of Athleticism: Holistic Athlete Profiling to Enhance Decision-Making								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	6			91	101		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000506			DEC 2019	2019	Oftentimes, the various coaching staff, sport science, and medical practitioners of a sports club require a single, holistic indication of an athlete's athleticism. Currently, there is no consensus on how this is best defined, and thus, a total score of athleticism (TSA) may provide one such method. The TSA is derived from the average of Z-scores (or T-scores in the case of small samples) from a sport-specific testing battery, ensuring athletes are judged across all the relevant fitness capacities that best define the physical demands of competition. To aid readers in using the TSA, this article also details how it is computed in EXCEL.		[Turner, Anthony N.; Bishop, Chris; Parmar, Nimai; Chavda, Shyam] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Allianz Pk, London, England; [Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Carnegie Appl Rugby Res CARR Ctr, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Stewart, Perry] Arsenal Football Club, Arsenal Performance & Res Team, London, England; [Read, Paul] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Turner, Anthony N.] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Allianz Pk, London, England								47							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509687000009	12	Article; Article		
J	Langford, Emily L.; Wilhoite, Sydni; Collum, Connor; Weekley, Hunter; Cook, Jordan; Adams, Kara; Snarr, Ronald L.								Battle Rope Conditioning								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	6			115	121		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000476			DEC 2019	2019	This column provides an analysis of the proper technique for battle rope conditioning. Specific musculature involvement, benefits of battle rope training, exercise technique, as well as advanced and beginning progressions are discussed. This dynamic movement is designed to improve cardiorespiratory endurance, muscular strength, endurance, and power. Specific variations for battle rope conditioning can provide various benefits to athletes such as enhancing sport-specific movements, increasing grip strength, and addressing unilateral deficits. Thus, the implementation of battle rope conditioning for an exercise regimen should be considered.		[Langford, Emily L.; Wilhoite, Sydni; Collum, Connor; Weekley, Hunter; Cook, Jordan; Adams, Kara; Snarr, Ronald L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA; [Snarr, Ronald L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509687000012	14	Article; Article		
J	Moore, Jerica L.; Travis, S. Kyle; Lee, Michelle L.; Stone, Michael H.								Making Weight: Maintaining Body Mass for Weight Class Barbell Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	6			110	114		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000503			DEC 2019	2019	Weightlifting and powerlifting are strength and power sports requiring athletes to participate in precompetition weigh-ins. Many athletes attempt to gain a competitive edge over smaller competitors by reducing body mass. Although these methods may seem advantageous, there are many negative outcomes that outweigh potential positive performance effects. Manipulating body mass can be performed effectively with minimal side effects; however, weightlifters and powerlifters participating in 2-hour weigh-ins should not cut weight at the expense of optimizing strength and power adaptations.		[Moore, Jerica L.; Lee, Michelle L.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Johnson City, TN 37614 USA; [Travis, S. Kyle; Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Ctr Excellence Sport Sci & Coach Educ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN USA; [Moore, Jerica L.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Johnson City, TN 37614 USA								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509687000011	35	Article; Article		
J	McBurnie, Alistair J.; Allen, Kieran P.; Garry, Maybanks; Martin, McDwyer; Thomas, Dos'Santos; Jones, Paul A.; Comfort, Paul; McMahon, John J.								The Benefits and Limitations of Predicting One Repetition Maximum Using the Load-Velocity Relationship								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	6			28	40		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000496			DEC 2019	2019	This review aims to provide an overview of the current load-velocity (L-V) approaches and their ability to estimate one-repetition maximum (1 RM). The bench press exercise appears to be the most valid and reliable when applying this approach. The ability for L-V relationship to predict 1 RM for lower-body lifts remains questionable. Individualized regression equations should be used alongside mean velocity when utilizing this method during the bench press. The 2-point method (2 distinguishable loads, as opposed to multiple loads) and normative velocity data (minimal velocity thresholds at 1 RM) may provide a novel and practical way to assess athletes' 1 RM.		[McBurnie, Alistair J.; Allen, Kieran P.; Garry, Maybanks; Martin, McDwyer; Thomas, Dos'Santos; Jones, Paul A.; Comfort, Paul; McMahon, John J.] Univ Salford, Human Performance Lab Sport Exercise & Physiother, Manchester, England; [McBurnie, Alistair J.] Univ Salford, Human Performance Lab Sport Exercise & Physiother, Manchester, England								36							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509687000004	65	Article; Article		
J	Terrell, Sara Lynn; Lynch, James M.								Femoroacetabular Impingement: Why Movement Literacy Matters								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	6			20	27		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000501			DEC 2019	2019	Femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) is characterized by pathologic contact during hip range of motion. Morphological variations of FAI present as either an acetabular overcoverage (PINCERFAI), spherical femoral deformity (CAM FAI), or both. Such morphological changes often elicit discomfort with aggravating movements most noted in hip flexion, adduction, and internal rotation (FADIR). Etiology of the CAM deformity may be linked to force loads experienced during formative bone growth periods in youth and adolescent athletes. Continued exploration of CAM FAI etiology may provide evidence for strength and conditioning professionals to carefully consider exercise training selection to promote movement literacy in youth populations.		[Terrell, Sara Lynn; Lynch, James M.] Florida Southern Coll, Sch Nursing & Hlth Sci, Exercise Sci Dept, Lakeland, FL 33801 USA; [Terrell, Sara Lynn] Florida Southern Coll, Sch Nursing & Hlth Sci, Exercise Sci Dept, Lakeland, FL 33801 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509687000003	47	Article; Article		
J	Meir, Rudi; Chapman, Neil; Whitting, John W.; Crowley-McHattan, Zachary J.								A Strategy for Assessing Acute (Transient) Pain or Discomfort in the Strength and Conditioning Environment								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	6			12	19		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000491			DEC 2019	2019	Experiencing acute (transient) pain and discomfort can be a characteristic of exercise and sport participation. In this context, acute pain or discomfort can be experienced by injured and injury-free athletes alike. Acute pain or discomfort in the strength and conditioning (S&C) environment can be experienced during particular movements or exercises. This may be the result of poor exercise technique and/or soft-tissue dysfunction. This article proposes a possible strategy, which can be used by the S&C coach, to modify training based on the acute (transient) pain or discomfort experienced by athletes during training.		[Meir, Rudi; Chapman, Neil; Whitting, John W.; Crowley-McHattan, Zachary J.] Southern Cross Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Lismore, NSW, Australia; [Meir, Rudi] Southern Cross Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Lismore, NSW, Australia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509687000002	47	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Cava, Alejandro; Moran-Navarro, Ricardo; Hernandez-Belmonte, Alejandro; Courel-Ibanez, Javier; Conesa-Ros, Elena; Jose Gonzalez-Badillo, Juan; Pallares, Jesus G.								Range of Motion and Sticking Region Effects on the Bench Press Load-Velocity Relationship								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			645	652					DEC 2019	2019	This study aimed to analyze the influence of range of motion (ROM) on main biomechanical parameters of the bench press (BP) exercise: i) load-velocity relationship by mean (MV) and mean propulsive velocity (MPV), ii) one-repetition maximum strength (1RM); iii) contribution of the propulsive and braking phases, and iv) presence of the sticking region key parameters (first peak barbell velocity: V-max1, minimum velocity: V(min )and second peak barbell velocity: V-max2). Forty-two strength-trained males performed a progressive loading test, starting at 20 kg and gradually increasing the load in 10 kg until MPV <= 0.50 m.s(-1 )and 5 down to 2.5 kg until 1RM, in three different ROMs: full ROM (BPFULL), two-thirds (BP2/3) and one-third (BP1/3). While significant differences were detected in the velocity attained against loads between 30-95% 1RM (BPFULL, BP2/3 and BP1/3, p < 0.05), both MV and MPV showed a very close relationship to %1RM for the three BP variations (R-2 = 0.935-0.966). The contribution of the braking phase decreased progressively until it completely disappeared at the 80%, 95% and 100% 1RM loads in BP1/3, BP2/3 and BPFULL, respectively. The 1RM increased as the ROM decreased (BPFULL < BP2/3 < BP1/3, p < 0.05). Despite the three biomechanical parameters that define the sticking region on the velocity-time curves were only observed in BPFULL variation, in 54.5% of the cases the subjects started their BP2/3 displacement before reaching the position at which the V-min occurs in their BPFULL exercise. The complete or partial presence of the sticking region during the concentric action of the lift seems to underlie the differences in the 1RM strength, load-velocity profiles and the contribution of the propulsive phase in the BP exercise at different ROMs.		[Martinez-Cava, Alejandro; Moran-Navarro, Ricardo; Hernandez-Belmonte, Alejandro; Courel-Ibanez, Javier; Conesa-Ros, Elena; Pallares, Jesus G.] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Human Performance & Sports Sci Lab, Murcia, Spain; [Jose Gonzalez-Badillo, Juan] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sport, Seville, Spain; [Pallares, Jesus G.] Univ Murcia, Fac Sport Sci, Human Performance & Sports Sci Lab, Murcia, Spain								36							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600007	37	Article; Article		
J	Prins, Philip J.; Noakes, Timothy D.; Welton, Gary L.; Haley, Sarah J.; Esbenshade, Noah J.; Atwell, Adam D.; Scott, Katie E.; Abraham, Jacqueline; Raabe, Amy S.; Buxton, Jeffrey D.; Ault, Dana L.								High Rates of Fat Oxidation Induced by a Low-Carbohydrate, High-Fat Diet, Do Not Impair 5-km Running Performance in Competitive Recreational Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			738	750					DEC 2019	2019	A common belief is that high intensity exercise (>60%VO2max) is best sustained by high rates of carbohydrate oxidation. The belief is based, in part, on an idea developed by Krogh and Lindhard in 1920. In the 100 years since, few studies have tested its validity. We tested the null hypothesis that performance in competitive recreational athletes exercising at >80% VO2max, during simulated 5-km running time trials (5KTT) would be impaired during a 6-week period of adaption to a low-carbohydrate, high-fat (LCHF) diet, compared to their performances when they ate a diet higher in carbohydrate and lower in fat (HCLF). Seven male athletes (age 35.6 +/- 8.4 years, height 178.7 +/- 4.1 cm, weight 68.6 +/- 1.6 kg) completed two maximal exercise (VO2max) tests (Day 1 and 39) and four 5KTT (Day 4, 14, 28, and 42) in a fasted state during two 6-week periods when they ate either a HCLF or a LCHF diet, in a randomized counterbalanced, crossover design. Exercise performance during the VO2max tests was unchanged on either diet (p = 0.251). Performance in the initial 5KTT was significantly slower on the LCHF diet (p = 0.011). There were no diet-related performance differences in the remaining three 5KTT (p > 0.22). Subjects exercised at -82%VO2max Carbohydrate oxidation provided 94% of energy on the HCLF diet, but only 65% on the LCHF diet. 5KTT performance at -82%VO2max was independent of the runners' habitual diet. The HCLF diet offered no advantage over a diet with a high-fat content. Since these athletes run faster than 88% of recreational distance runners in the United States (U.S.), this finding may have wide general application.		[Prins, Philip J.; Haley, Sarah J.; Esbenshade, Noah J.; Atwell, Adam D.; Scott, Katie E.; Abraham, Jacqueline; Buxton, Jeffrey D.; Ault, Dana L.] Grove City Coll, Dept Exercise Sci, Grove City, PA 16127 USA; [Noakes, Timothy D.] Noakes Fdn, Cape Town, South Africa; [Welton, Gary L.] Grove City Coll, Dept Psychol, Grove City, PA USA; [Raabe, Amy S.] Youngstown State Univ, Dept Human Ecol, Youngstown, OH USA; [Prins, Philip J.] Grove City Coll, Dept Exercise Sci, Grove City, PA 16127 USA								50							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600018	51	Article; Article		
J	Mayorga-Vega, Daniel; Casado-Robles, Carolina; Viciana, Jesus; Lopez-Fernandez, Ivan								Daily Step-Based Recommendations Related to Moderate-to-Vigorous Physical Activity and Sedentary Behavior in Adolescents								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			586	595					DEC 2019	2019	Among adolescents empirical studies examining the total daily steps translation of the moderate-to-vigorous physical activity recommendation are scarce and inconsistent, and there are no previous studies with cadence-based steps and related to sedentary behavior. The main objective of the present study was to establish and compare the accuracy of daily step-based recommendations related to the moderate-to-vigorous physical activity and sedentary behavior thresholds in adolescents. The present study followed a cross-sectional design. A total of 126 adolescents (56 girls) aged 12-15 years old were assessed by ActiGraph GT3X accelerometers for eight consecutive days (moderate-to-vigorous physical activity, sedentary behavior, and steps) and the multi-stage 20-meter shuttle run test (cardiorespiratory fitness). ROC curve analyses showed that total daily steps (AUC = 0.94, 0.890.99; Threshold >= 11,111 steps/ day; P = 0.93; k = 0.67; p < 0.001) was a more appropriate indicator than cadence-based daily steps for distinguishing between physically active and inactive adolescents. Daily step-based thresholds represent a promising way to translate a total daily sedentary behavior threshold (e.g., total daily steps, AUC = 0.87, 0.81-0.93; Sensitivity = 0.87; Specificity = 0.70). Adolescents who met a favorable combination of step-based recommendations related to both physical activity and sedentary behavior thresholds had a higher probability of having a healthy cardiorespiratory fitness profile than those who did not meet either of them (e.g., risk ratio = 5.05, 1.69-15.08) or only the one related to physical activity (e.g., risk ratio = 4.09, 1.36-12.29). These findings may help policy-makers to provide accurate daily step-based recommendations that would simplify the physical activity and sedentary behavior thresholds for adolescents.		[Mayorga-Vega, Daniel] Univ Jaen, Fac Humanities & Educ Sci, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Jaen, Spain; [Casado-Robles, Carolina; Viciana, Jesus] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Lopez-Fernandez, Ivan] Univ Malaga, Fac Educ Sci, Biodynam & Body Composit Lab, Malaga, Spain; [Mayorga-Vega, Daniel] Univ Jaen, Fac Humanities & Educ Sci, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Jaen, Spain								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600001	47	Article; Article		
J	Sekine, Yuta; Hoshikawa, Seigo; Hirose, Norikazu								Longitudinal Age-Related Morphological and Physiological Changes in Adolescent Male Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			751	757					DEC 2019	2019	This study aimed to examine longitudinal age-related changes in muscle morphology and jump and sprint performances of youth athletes. The subjects of this longitudinal study were 41 youth male basketball players who were assigned to late, mid, and early groups based on differences regarding the estimated age at peak height velocity. The vastus medialis, vastus intermedius, rectus femoris, vastus lateralis, biceps brachii, and triceps brachii thicknesses were assessed using ultrasonography. The subjects' anaerobic capacities were evaluated based on Abalakov jumps and 20-m sprint time. After 1 year, the vastus medialis and biceps brachii thicknesses increased significantly in all groups, and the rectus femoris, vastus intermedius, and vastus lateralis thicknesses increased significantly in the late and mid groups, but not in the early group. The Abalakov jumps and 20-m sprint time improved significantly in all groups. The early group's 10-m sprint time improved significantly. Cross-sectional comparisons showed that after 1 year, the early group' s Abalakov jumps and 20-m sprint time at baseline, its Abalakov jumps, and 10-m and 20-m sprint times were significantly better than those in the mid and late groups. Hence, significant muscle growth occurred before the athletes reached the age at peak height velocity. During puberty, late maturers' sprint times and jump performances may not catch up with those of early maturers. The speed and tempo of the morphological growth and anaerobic ability of athletes in the same age category depend on athletes' biological maturity.		[Sekine, Yuta] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Modern Life, Tokyo, Japan; [Sekine, Yuta] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Sekine, Yuta] Daito Bunka Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Hoshikawa, Seigo] Edogawa Univ, Fac Sociol, Chiba, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Sekine, Yuta] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Modern Life, Nakano Ku, 4-21-2 Nakano, Tokyo 1648530, Japan								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600019	38	Article; Article		
J	Becker, Stephan; Berger, Joshua; Backfisch, Marco; Ludwig, Oliver; Kelm, Jens; Froehlich, Michael								Effects of a 6-Week Strength Training of the Neck Flexors and Extensors on the Head Acceleration during Headers in Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			729	737					DEC 2019	2019	The importance of well trained and stable neck flexors and extensors as well as trunk muscles for intentional headers in soccer is increasingly discussed. The neck flexors and extensors should ensure a coupling of trunk and head at the time of ball contact to increase the physical mass hitting the ball and reduce head acceleration. The aim of the study was to analyze the influence of a 6-week strength training program (neck flexors, neck extensors) on the acceleration of the head during standing, jumping and running headers as well as after fatigue of the trunk muscles on a pendulum header. A total of 33 active male soccer players (20.3 +/- 3.6 years, 1.81 +/- 0.07 m, 75.5 +/- 8.3 kg) participated and formed two training intervention groups (IG1: independent adult team, IG2: independent youth team) and one control group (CG: players from different teams). The training intervention consisted of three exercises for the neck flexors and extensors. The training effects were verified by means of the isometric maximum voluntary contraction (IMVC) measured by a telemetric Noraxon DTS force sensor. The head acceleration during ball contact was determined using a telemetric Noraxon DTS 3D accelerometer. There was no significant change of the IMVC over time between the groups (F=2.265, p=.121). Head acceleration was not reduced significantly for standing (IG1 0.4 +/- 2.0, IG2 0.1 +/- 1.4, CG -0.4 +/- 1.2; F = 0.796, p = 0.460), jumping (IG1 -0.7 +/- 1.4, IG2 -0.2 +/- 0.9, CG 0.1 +/- 1.2; F = 1.272, p = 0.295) and running (IG1 -1.0 +/- 1.9, IG2 -0.2 +/- 1.4, CG -0.1 +/- 1.6; F = 1.050, p = 0.362) headers as well as after fatigue of the trunk musculature for post-jumping (IG1 -0.2 +/- 2.1, IG2 -0.6 +/- 1.4; CG -0.6 +/- 1.3; F = 0.184, p = 0.833) and post-running (IG1 -0.3 +/- 1.6, IG2 -0.7 +/- 1.2, CG 0.0 +/- 1.4; F = 0.695, p = 0.507) headers over time between IG1, IG2 and CG. A 6-week strength training of the neck flexors and neck extensors could not show the presumed preventive benefit. Both the effects of a training intervention and the consequences of an effective intervention for the acceleration of the head while heading seem to be more complex than previously assumed and presumably only come into effect in case of strong impacts.		[Becker, Stephan; Berger, Joshua; Backfisch, Marco; Ludwig, Oliver; Froehlich, Michael] Tech Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sport Sci, D-67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany; [Kelm, Jens] Saarland Univ, Med Fac, Homburg Saar, Germany; [Becker, Stephan] Tech Univ Kaiserslautern, Dept Sport Sci, D-67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600017	46	Article; Article		
J	Mende, Esther; Schwirtz, Ansgar; Paternoster, Florian K.								The Relationship between General Upper-Body Strength and Pole Force Measurements, and Their Predictive Power Regarding Double Poling Sprint Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			798	804					DEC 2019	2019	In recent years, there is an increasing importance of double poling (DP) performance regarding the outcome in classic cross-country skiing (XCS) races. So far, different approaches were used to predict DP performance but there is a lack of knowledge how general strength parameters are related to DP performance parameters gathered from in field-test situations. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine the relationship between general strength measurements of different upper-body segments and pole force measurements during a DP sprint exercise. In addition, multiple linear regressions were calculated to determine the predictive power of theses variables regarding DP sprint performance, represented as maximum velocity. Thirteen none-elite cross-country skiers performed two 60 m DP sprints at maximal speed on a tartan track using roller skis. In addition, maximum isometric and concentric strength tests were performed on a motor-driven dynamometer with four major upper-body segments (trunk flexion / extension, shoulder / elbow extension). Especially the mean pole force and the strength test parameters correlated significantly (r >= 0.615) in all except one comparison. However, regression analyses revealed that neither pole force parameters (R-2 = 0.495) nor isometric (R-2 = 0.456) or dynamic (R-2 = 0.596) strength test parameters could predict the DP performance significantly. This study showed that standardized isokinetic strength tests could be used to estimate pole force capabilities of XCS athletes. However, pole-force and strength test parameters failed to predict significantly maximal velocity during a DP sprint exercise, which might be attributed to the non-elite subject group.		[Mende, Esther; Schwirtz, Ansgar; Paternoster, Florian K.] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Munich, Germany; [Mende, Esther] Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Georg Brauchle Ring 62, D-80992 Munich, Germany								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600024	19	Article; Article		
J	Sammoud, Senda; Negra, Yassine; Chaabene, Helmi; Bouguezzi, Raja; Moran, Jason; Granacher, Urs								The Effects of Plyometric Jump Training on Jumping and Swimming Performances in Prepubertal Male Swimmers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			805	811					DEC 2019	2019	Swimming performance can be improved not only by in-water sport-specific training but also by means of dry land-training (e.g., plyometric jump training [PJT]). This study examined the effects of an 8-week PJT on proxies of muscle power and swimming performance in prepubertal male swimmers. Participants were randomly allocated to a PJT group (PJT; n = 14; age: 10.3 +/- 0.4 years, maturity-offset = -3 +/- 0.3) or a control group (CG; n = 12; age: 10.5 +/- 0.4 years, maturity-offset = -2.8 +/- 0.3). Swimmers in PJT and CG performed 6 training sessions per week. Each training session lasted between 80 and 90 minutes. Over the 8 weeks in-season training period, PJT performed two PJT sessions per week, each lasting between 25 to 30 minutes (similar to 1 hour per week) in replacement of sport-specific swimming drills. During that time, CG followed their regular sport-specific swimming training (e.g., coordination, breathing, improving swimming strokes). Overall training volume was similar between groups. Pre- and post-training, tests were conducted to assess proxies of muscle power (countermovement-jump [CMJ]), standing-long-jump [SLJ]) and sport-specific swimming performances (15-, 25-, and 50-m front-crawl, 25-m kick without push [25-m kick WP], and 25-m front-crawl WP). No training or test-related injuries were detected over the course of the study. Between-group analyses derived from magnitude-based inferences showed trivial-to-large effects in favour of PJT for all tests (ES = 0.28 to 1.43). Within-group analyses for the PJT showed small performance improvements for CMJ (effect-size [ES] = 0.53), 25-m kick WP (ES = 0.25), and 50-m front crawl (ES = 0.56) tests. Moderate performance improvements were observed for the SLJ, 25-m front-crawl WP, 15-m and 25-m front-crawl tests (ES = 0.95, 0.60, 0.99, and 0.85, respectively). For CG, the within-group results showed trivial performance declines for the CMJ (ES=-0.13) and the 50-m front-crawl test (ES = -0.04). In addition, trivial-to-small performance improvements were observed for the SLJ (ES = 0.09), 25-m kick WP (ES = 0.02), 25-m front-crawl WP (ES = 0.19), 25-m front-crawl (ES = 0.2), (SLJ [ES = 0.09, and 15-m front crawl (ES = 0.36). Short-term in-season PJT, integrated into the regular swimming training, was more effective than regular swimming training alone in improving jump and sport-specific swimming performances in prepubertal male swimmers.		[Sammoud, Senda; Negra, Yassine; Bouguezzi, Raja] Univ La Manouba, Res Unit Sport Performance & Hlth UR17JS01, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ Ksar Said, Manouba, Tunisia; [Sammoud, Senda; Negra, Yassine] Manouba Univ, Higher Inst Sports & Phys Educ, Tunis, Tunisia; [Chaabene, Helmi; Granacher, Urs] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Res Focus Cognit Sci, Am Neuen Palais 10, D-14469 Potsdam, Germany; [Chaabene, Helmi] Univ Jendouba, High Inst Sports & Phys Educ, Kef, Tunisia; [Moran, Jason] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester, Essex, England; [Granacher, Urs] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Res Focus Cognit Sci, Am Neuen Palais 10, D-14469 Potsdam, Germany								33							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600025	35	Article; Article		
J	Colado, Juan C.; Brasil, Roxana M.								Concurrent and Construct Validation of a Scale for Rating Perceived Exertion in Aquatic Cycling for Young Men								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			695	707					DEC 2019	2019	Aquatic cycling is a program of physical exercises performed with immersed stationary bikes. Few studies have provided evidence about the intensity control during its practice. Therefore, the primary aim of this study was to examine the concurrent and construct validity of a new scale for rating perceived exertion (RPE) during aquatic cycling in young men. Thirty physically active, healthy young men performed a load-incremented aquatic cycle ergometer protocol. Concurrent validity was established by correlating the Aquatic Cycling Scale (AC S) with oxygen uptake, pulmonary ventilation (VE), heart rate (FIR), and blood lactate concentration (BL) responses to the maximal load-incremental test. Construct validity was established by correlating RPE derived from the Aquatic Cycling Scale (0-10) from the Borg Scale (6-20). RPE-overall, maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), oxygen uptake indexed to body weight (VO2), VE, HR, and BL were measured during each exercise stage. The range of exercise responses across the incremental test were VO2max = 1.07-3.55 L/min, VO2 = 14.26-46.89 ml/Kg/min, VE = 23.17-138.57 L/min, HR = 99.54-173.31 beats/min, BL= 1.18-11.63 mM, ACS RPE-overall = 1.11-9.33. Correlation/regression analyses showed ACS RPE as a positive linear function of VO2max (r = 0.78; p < 0.05), VO2 (r = 0.87; p < 0.05), VE (r = 0.86; p < 0.05), HR (r = 0.77; p < 0.05), and BL (r = 0.85; p < 0.05). RPE-ACS distributed as a positive linear function of the RPE-Borg Scale (r = 0.97; p < 0.05). ANOVA indicated that an incremental pedalling cadence of 15 revolutions per minute (rpm) provoked significant differences (p < 0.05) regarding previous stages in the majority of the variables analysed. The Aquatic Cycling Scale is an appropriate tool for monitoring exertion intensity during aquatic cycling in fit men. A brief increment in aquatic pedalling cadence of 15 rpm increases the intensity of the aquatic pedalling exercise.		[Colado, Juan C.; Brasil, Roxana M.] Univ Valencia, Res Grp Prevent & Hlth Exercise & Sport, Res Unit Sport & Hlth, Valencia, Spain; [Brasil, Roxana M.] Celso Lisboa Univ, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Colado, Juan C.] Univ Valencia, Fac Sci Phys Act & Sport FCAFE, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, Gasco Oliag St 3, Valencia 46010, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600013	76	Article; Article		
J	Merlini, Michele; Beato, Marco; Marcora, Samuele; Dickinson, John								The Effect of 1600 μg Inhaled Salbutamol Administration on 30 m Sprint Performance Pre and Post a Yo-Yo Intermittent Running Test in Football Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			716	721					DEC 2019	2019	The purpose of the study was to investigate the effect of inhaling 1600 mu g of salbutamol (SAL) on 30 m sprint before and after the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery test. In a randomised cross over single blind study 13 male non-asthmatic, football players volunteered (mean +/- SD; age 18.1 +/- 0.9 years; weight 69.5 +/- 8.3 kg; height 1.78 +/- 0.07 m). Participants completed two visits and were randomly assigned to either (SAL) or (PLA) treatment and performed a set of three sprints of 30 m before and after the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test (Yo-Yo IRT). Best sprint and mean sprint were analysed in addition to the distance covered during the Yo-Yo IRT; rating of perceived exertion and heart rate were collected at the end of each level completed. Repeated measures ANOVA were performed to investigate changes in performance between groups. Following the inhalation of supratherapeutic salbutamol dose (1600 mu g) neither 30 m sprint time (PLA 4.43 +/- 0.14 s; SAL 4.44 +/- 0.15 s, p = 0.76) nor distance covered in the Yo-Yo IRT test reported significant variation between PLA conditions (1660 +/- 217 m) and SAL (1610 +/- 229 m, p = 0.16). Moreover, lactate values, heart rate and RPE did not differ significantly between groups. The inhalation of 1600 mu g salbutamol does not enhance 30 m sprint performance in non-fatigued and fatigue conditions. Our findings suggest when football players acutely inhale double the permitted dose of salbutamol, as indicated in the World Anti-Doping Agency List of Prohibited Substances and Methods, they will not experience improvements in sprint or endurance performance.		[Merlini, Michele; Marcora, Samuele; Dickinson, John] Univ Kent, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Chatham ME4 4AG, Kent, England; [Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Sch Sci Technol & Engn, Ipswich, Suffolk, England; [Merlini, Michele] Univ Kent, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Chatham ME4 4AG, Kent, England								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600015	21	Article; Article		
J	Thomas, Candice E.; Chambers, Timothy P.; Main, Luana C.; Gastin, Paul B.								Factors Influencing the Early Development of World-Class Caribbean Track and Field Athletes: A Qualitative Investigation								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			758	771					DEC 2019	2019	This qualitative investigation sought to explore through a sociocultural lens the perceived early training and competition environment, and support network of world-class Caribbean track and field athletes and the influence on their sport engagement and progression during early childhood and adolescence. Sixteen world-class track and field athletes (8 males and 8 females; M-age = 29, SD = 5 years) from 6 English-speaking Caribbean islands took part in semi-structured interviews. A thematic analysis was performed on the transcribed data. Three superordinate themes were identified as key factors that influenced the early sporting development of world-class Caribbean athletes: (1) conducive sporting environment, (2) functional social support network, and (3) key organizational input. Findings revealed that perceived high levels of deliberate play activity in childhood (6 - 12 years) and an intense track and field competition culture in adolescence (13 - 20 years) were conducive to the continued engagement and progression of world-class Caribbean track and field athletes at the junior level. Furthermore, world-class athletes perceived themselves to be positively influenced by the support received from their immediate social support network and key organizations during this period. This study showed that a conducive sporting environment coupled with optimal social and organizational support may have encouraged world-class Caribbean athletes to remain engaged in track and field and to successfully progress within the sport at the junior level. Findings shed light on the sporting culture at the junior level within the Caribbean region and provide insight into key environmental factors that can influence and foster the development of future World Champions and Olympians.		[Thomas, Candice E.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Ctr Sport Res, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Chambers, Timothy P.] Australian Coll Appl Psychol, Discipline Psychol Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Main, Luana C.] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Inst Phys Act & Nutr, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Gastin, Paul B.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Thomas, Candice E.] Deakin Univ, Fac Hlth, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Ctr Sport Res, 221 Burwood Highway, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600020	81	Article; Article		
J	Gaitan, Julian M.; Eichner, Natalie Z. M.; Gilbertson, Nicole M.; Heiston, Emily M.; Weltman, Arthur; Malin, Steven K.								Two Weeks of Interval Training Enhances Fat Oxidation during Exercise in Obese Adults with Prediabetes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			636	644					DEC 2019	2019	Prediabetes is associated with impaired oxidative capacity and altered substrate utilization during exercise. The effects of continuous (CONT) versus interval (INT) exercise training on fat oxidation during an acute exercise bout at the same absolute and relative intensities are unknown in this population. Obese females/males (n = 17, n = 5) with prediabetes (BMI 32.2 +/- 1.2 kg.m(-2); age 62.8 +/- 1.6 y; fasting glucose 103.4 +/- 1.6 mg.dL(-1); 2-hour glucose 153.7 +/- 7.1 mg.dL(-1); VO(2)peak 19.9 +/- 1.0 mL.kg(-1).min(-1)) were screened with a 75g OGTT. Subjects completed a peak oxygen consumption test and a submaximal exercise substrate utilization test consisting of 5min stages at absolute (30W) and relative (70%HRpeak) intensities before and after randomization to 12 sessions (60min each) of CONT (70% HRpeak) or INT (alternating 3min 90% HRpeak, 3min 50% HRpeak) over a two-week period. Body mass decreased and VO(2)peak increased more after INT than CONT (INT: -0.6 +/- 0.2 kg, CONT: -0.1 +/- 0.2 kg; p = 0.04; INT: 1.9 +/- 0.6 mL/kg/min, CONT: 0.1 +/- 0.6 mL.kg(-1).min(-1); p = 0.04). Training increased fat oxidation by 0.7 +/- 0.2 mL.kg(-1).min(-1) during the absolute intensity test (p < 0.001), independent of intensity. During the relative intensity test, fat oxidation increased more after INT than CONT (INT: 1.3 +/- 0.4 mL.kg(-1).min(-1), CONT: 0.3 +/- 0.3 mL.kg(-1).min(-1); p = 0.03), with no difference in exercise energy expenditure between groups. Enhanced fat oxidation during the relative test was correlated with increased VO(2)peak (r = 0.53 p = 0.01). High intensity INT training enhances fat oxidation during the same relative intensity exercise in people with prediabetes.		[Gaitan, Julian M.; Eichner, Natalie Z. M.; Gilbertson, Nicole M.; Heiston, Emily M.; Weltman, Arthur; Malin, Steven K.] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Weltman, Arthur; Malin, Steven K.] Univ Virginia, Div Endocrinol & Metab, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Malin, Steven K.] Univ Virginia, Robert M Berne Cardiovasc Res Ctr, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Malin, Steven K.] Dept Kinesiol, 225A Mem Gymnasium, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600006	40	Article; Article		
J	Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio; Sanchez-Gomez, Juan M.; Collado-Boira, Eladio J.; Hernando, Barbara; Panizo, Nayara; Hernando, Carlos								Cardiac Damage Biomarkers and Heart Rate Variability Following a 118-Km Mountain Race: Relationship with Performance and Recovery								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	4			615	622					DEC 2019	2019	This study aimed to assess the release of cardiac damage biomarkers jointly with cardiac autonomic modulation after a mountain ultramarathon. Such knowledge and the possible relationship of these markers with race time is of primary interest to establish possible recommendations upon athletes' recovery and return to training following these competitions. Forty six athletes enrolled in the Penyagolosa Trails CSP115 race (118 km and a total positive elevation of 5439 m) took part in the study. N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) and high-sensitive cardiac troponin T (hs-TNT) concentrations as well as linear and nonlinear heart rate variability (HRV) were evaluated before and after the race. NT-proBNP and hs-TNT significantly increased post-race; fifty percent of the finishers surpassed the Upper Reference Limit (URL) for hs-TNT while 87% exceeded the URL for NT-proBNP. Overall and vagally-mediated HRV were diminished and cardiac autonomic modulation became less complex and more predictable following the race. More pronounced vagal modulation decreases were associated with higher levels of postexertional NT-proBNP. Moreover, rise in hs-TNT and NT-proBNP was greater among faster runners, while pre-race overall and vagally-mediated HRV were correlated with finishing time. Participation in a 118-km ultratrail induces an acute release of cardiac damage biomarkers and a large alteration of cardiac autonomic modulation. Furthermore, faster runners were those who exhibited a greater rise in those cardiac damage biomarkers. In light of these findings, an appropriate recovery period after ultraendurance races appears prudent and particularly important among better performing athletes. At the same time, HRV analysis is shown as a promising tool to assess athletes' readiness to perform at their maximum level in an ultraendurance race.		[Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio] Univ Valencia, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Valencia, Spain; [Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio; Sanchez-Gomez, Juan M.] Vithas Nisa 9 de Octubre Hosp, Sports Hlth Unit, Valencia, Spain; [Sanchez-Gomez, Juan M.] Gen Univ Hosp Castellon, Castellon De La Plana, Spain; [Collado-Boira, Eladio J.; Panizo, Nayara] Jaume I Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Castellon de La Plana, Spain; [Hernando, Barbara] Jaume I Univ, Dept Med, Castellon de La Plana, Spain; [Panizo, Nayara] Univ Clin Hosp Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Hernando, Carlos] Jaume I Univ, Educ & Especif Didact Dept, Castellon de La Plana, Spain; [Hernando, Carlos] Jaume I Univ, Sports Serv, Castellon de La Plana, Spain; [Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio] Univ Valencia, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Valencia, Spain; [Martinez-Navarro, Ignacio] Vithas Nisa 9 de Octubre Hosp, Sports Hlth Unit, Valencia, Spain								34							Sport Sciences	WOS:000497951600004	48	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Jin Hyun; Ridgel, Angela L.								Effects of Interactive Metronome and golf swing mechanics training on technique and motor timing in professional and amateur golfers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	6			786	797		10.1177/1747954119883376			DEC 2019	2019	Accurate motor timing is required to produce well-coordinated movements during the golf swing. We developed the Interactive Metronome protocol, which included golf swing mechanics to improve motor timing. Thirty golfers were recruited into a category based on their experience: (a) professionals who qualified to play in the Professional golf tournament (n = 10) and (b) amateurs who played in the college golf tournament (n = 20). The amateur group was then randomized into either an intervention or control group. The intervention groups completed 12 sessions of Interactive Metronome with golf swing mechanics. During Interactive Metronome with golf swing mechanics training, golf swing mechanics were practiced with both audio and visual timing cues. The control group completed golf swing training only. Motor timing and golf mechanics were measured before and after the training. There was a significant time by group interaction (p = 0.048) in the coordination of the upper limbs where the professional and amateur groups showed a significant improvement compared with the control (p = 0.048). There was a main effect of time and a significant improvement in overall motor timing (p < 0.001), hand and feet (p < 0.01) timing, and balance (p = 0.003) from pre to post test. Club speed (p = 0.008), club path variability (p = 0.009), and smash factor (p < 0.001) showed a main effect of group where the professional golfers showed greater smash factor and club speed and less variability than the amateur golfers. These findings suggest that Interactive Metronome with golf swing mechanics can improve coordination in limbs and golf swing mechanics.		[Kim, Jin Hyun] Chung Ang Univ, Coll Sports Sci, Anseong, South Korea; [Kim, Jin Hyun; Ridgel, Angela L.] Kent State Univ, Dept Exercise Physiol, Kent, OH 44242 USA; [Kim, Jin Hyun] Kent State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci Physiol, 350 Midway Dr,163B, Kent, OH 44242 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000495775000008	22	Article; Article		
J	Waddell, Morgan L.; Amazeen, Eric L.								Does Attention Modify Contributions to Heaviness Perception?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	3			373	385		10.1080/02701367.2019.1668519			JUL 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The current study investigated the effect of attention on heaviness perception and its physiological and kinematic contributions. Method: Participants lifted objects that varied in mass and volume while their muscle activity and movement were recorded. Participants were instructed to pay attention to their arm (internal) or the object (external). Results: While heaviness perception did not change as a function of attention, whether muscle activity and movement combined for perception differed across attention conditions. Specifically, muscle activity and movement combined to significantly predict heaviness perception in the external condition, but not the internal condition. Additionally, movement was more salient for perception in both conditions compared to previous research investigating the contribution of muscle activity and movement to heaviness perception. Conclusion: It is suggested that these results support the constrained action hypothesis, which suggests that adopting an external focus of attention benefits motor task performance and learning, and should be further explored in the context of a theory of haptic perception that suggests that the medium for haptic perception is the multifractal tensegrity structure of the body.		[Waddell, Morgan L.; Amazeen, Eric L.] Arizona State Univ, Tempe, AZ USA; [Waddell, Morgan L.] Arizona State Univ, Dept Psychol, Box 1104, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000499009200001	54	Article; Article		
J	Teng, Phillis Soek Po; Leong, Kah Fai; Kong, Pui Wah								Influence of Foot-Landing Positions at Initial Contact on Knee Flexion Angles for Single-leg Drop Landings								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			316	325		10.1080/02701367.2019.1669765			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Small knee flexion angles are associated with increased non-contact anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury risks. The purpose of this study was to provide insights into how ankle plantar flexion angles influenced knee flexion angles at initial contact during single-leg drop landings. Method: Thirteen male recreational basketball players performed single-leg drop landings from a 30-cm high platform using three randomized foot-landing positions (natural, fore-foot, and flat-foot). A motion capture system and a force plate were used to measure lower extremity kinematics and vertical ground reaction force (VGRF). A one-way repeated measures Analysis of Variance and the Friedman test were conducted (alpha = .05). Results: Foot-landing position had a significant effect on knee flexion angles at initial contact (p < .001). As compared to flat-foot landings (18 degrees (SD 5 degrees), significantly smaller knee flexion angles were found for natural (mean 12 degrees (SD 5 degrees), p = .004) and fore-foot landings (mean 12 degrees (SD 3 degrees), p = .001). There was however significantly smaller knee flexion range of motion in flat-foot landings (mean 42 degrees (SD 3 degrees), as compared to natural landings (mean 48 degrees (SD 4 degrees) (p < .001). Flat-foot landings also resulted in a 1.4 times higher maximum VGRF than fore-foot landings (p < .001) and 1.3 times higher than natural landings (p = .005). Conclusions: Natural and fore-foot landings are better for force absorption but are associated with smaller knee flexion angles at initial contact. These findings have important implications for non-contact ACL injuries.		[Teng, Phillis Soek Po; Leong, Kah Fai; Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore; [Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000499024200001	36	Article; Article		
J	Doncaster, Greg; Page, Richard; White, Paul; Svenson, Robert; Twist, Craig								Analysis of Physical Demands during Youth Soccer Match-play: Considerations of Sampling Method and Epoch Length								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			326	334		10.1080/02701367.2019.1669766			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine the physical match profiles of professional soccer players using 3 and 5 min fixed and rolling averages as well as fixed 1 min averages, with considerations to training prescription. Methods: Twenty-nine professional U23 soccer outfield players competed across 17 competitive matches during the 2017/18 season, equating to a total of 130 separate physical match profiles. Match activities were recorded using global positioning system (GPS) devices with integrated micro-electrical mechanical systems (MEMS), recording total distance (TD), high-speed running (HSR), and metabolic power (MP). For each individual match profile and variable, 1, 3, and 5 min peak, post-peak, and average values were calculated using fixed-time epochs (FIXED) and rolling averages (ROLL). Linear mixed models were employed to examine the differences in the dependent variables as a function of the method of measurement. Results: Results revealed significantly higher peak values, for relative TD, relative HSR and relative MP when employing the ROLL sampling method, in comparison to the FIXED method, for both 3 min and 5 min epoch lengths. Analysis of epoch length revealed significantly higher peak values, across all positions, for relative TD, relative HSR and MP for 1 min epochs, in comparison to 3 min and 5 min epochs. Conclusions: The data offers a novel insight into the appropriate identification of physical demands during youth soccer match-play. Researchers and practitioners should consider the sampling method and epoch length when assessing the physical demands of competitive match-play, as well as when designing and prescribing sport-specific conditioning drills.		[Doncaster, Greg; Page, Richard] Edge Hill Univ, Ormskirk, England; [White, Paul; Svenson, Robert] Stoke City FC Acad, Newcastle Under Lyme, England; [Twist, Craig] Univ Chester, Chester, Cheshire, England; [Doncaster, Greg] Edge Hill Univ, Fac Arts & Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Ormskirk L39 4QP, England								46							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000499022300001	25	Article; Article		
J	Deshayes, Maxime; Zory, Raphael; Seitchik, Allison E.; Chalabaev, Aina; Clement-Guillotin, Corentin								Can the Stereotype Threat and Lift Phenomenon be Applicable to a Muscular Endurance Task?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			354	360		10.1080/02701367.2019.1668518			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose. Inducing a negative stereotype toward women usually leads to a decrease in women performance and an increase in men performance. These effects were observed during technical tasks. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of this sex stereotype during a non-technical muscular endurance task. The perception of effort, closely related to endurance performance, was also recorded. Based on the type of task and the mere effort account, we predicted that both men and women in the negative stereotype toward women condition would perform better than participants in the two other groups. Method. Seventy-seven participants (38 women and 39 men) were randomly assigned to a negative stereotype toward women, a nullified-stereotype, or a control condition. Then, they performed a submaximal handgrip task until exhaustion at 50% of their maximal strength. Results. This study showed that performance at T2 was reduced for men and women in the nullified-stereotype and control conditions, but not in the negative stereotype toward women condition, revealing that participants in the negative stereotype toward women condition performed better than participants in the other conditions. No significant difference was observed concerning the perception of effort according to the conditions. Conclusion. As compared to technical tasks, inducing a negative stereotype toward women increased women's performance. The perception of effort could be responsible for this performance improvement. However, more research is needed to investigate the mechanisms involved. Concerning men, in line with the stereotype lift phenomenon, a performance increase was observed in this same condition.		[Deshayes, Maxime; Zory, Raphael; Clement-Guillotin, Corentin] Univ Cote Azur, Nice, France; [Seitchik, Allison E.] Merrimack Coll, N Andover, MA 01845 USA; [Chalabaev, Aina] Univ Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, France; [Deshayes, Maxime] Univ Cote Azur, LAMHESS, Fac Sci Sport,Lab Motricite, Humaine,Expertise,Sport,Sante EA 6312, 261 Blvd Mercantour,BP 3259, F-06205 Nice 3, France								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000499012200001	25	Article; Article		
J	Knudson, Duane, V								Do low-tech active-learning exercises influence biomechanics student's epistemology of learning?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	7			773	781		10.1080/14763141.2019.1682650			AUG 9 2022	2022	Some students have negative perceptions of group work common in several active learning (AL) pedagogies. This study documented the potential change in student beliefs (epistemology) of learning biomechanical concepts over an introductory biomechanics course implementing low-tech AL exercises. Fifty-eight students in two biomechanics courses agreed to participate and completed a pre- and post-test consisting of the Biomechanics Concept Inventory (BCI3) version 3 and additional questions on their perceptions about group work and the nature of learning in biomechanics. Low-tech AL exercises resulted in a large (d > 0.8) mean improvement in student learning compared previous data on lecture alone. This improvement in learning of biomechanical concepts with AL may be unrelated to student perceptions of working with other students, the nature of biomechanical knowledge or learning. There was inconsistent evidence that student perceptions can be changed over a biomechanics course implementing low-tech AL exercises, with significant reductions in positive attitudes on one question and no difference on another from pre- to post-test. While the majority of students had positive perceptions about working with other students, some had negative perceptions, and how these perceptions changed over the term was not systematic with addition of low-tech AL exercises.		[Knudson, Duane, V] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Knudson, Duane, V] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000497238000001	44	Article; Article		
J	Ge, Qi; Humphreys, Brad R.; Zhou, Kun								Are Fair Weather Fans Affected by Weather? Rainfall, Habit Formation, and Live Game Attendance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	3			304	322	1527002519885427	10.1177/1527002519885427			APR 2020	2020	We analyze habit formation in sports attendance utilizing rainfall as an unexpected, transitory shock to attendance costs. Using attendance data from Major League Baseball (MLB) and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration weather data, we analyze the impact of variation in game day weather conditions on current and future MLB attendance. The empirical strategy permits identification of both the formation and persistence of habit from exogenous weather shocks. Past adverse weather shocks increase future attendance by about 200 fans per game. This contributes to the literature developing empirical evidence of habit formation in the field and provides policy implications for optimal ticket-pricing strategies.		[Ge, Qi] Vassar Coll, Dept Econ, Poughkeepsie, NY 12601 USA; [Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Zhou, Kun] Skidmore Coll, Dept Econ, Saratoga Springs, NY 12866 USA; [Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, Coll Business & Econ, Dept Econ, POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								31							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000497607700001	30	Article; Article		
J	Greenberg, Eric T.; Garcia, Micah C.; Galante, Juliana; Werner, William G.								Acute changes in sagittal plane kinematics while wearing a novel belt device during treadmill running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	6			718	730		10.1080/14763141.2019.1676462			JUL 3 2022	2022	Somatosensory feedback is used in walking retraining; however, its utility in running is less feasible due to the greater associated speeds. The purpose of this study was to examine the acute effects of wearing a novel running belt device on sagittal plane running kinematics. Ten healthy runners ran on a treadmill with and without the use of a running belt device within a repeated measures study design. Temporal-spatial characteristics and sagittal plane knee and ankle kinematics were recorded with three-dimensional motion analysis. Wilcoxon Signed-Rank Tests revealed significant decreases in centre of mass vertical displacement (z = -2.083, p = 0.003), tibial inclination at initial contact (z = -2.803, p = 0.003), and stance phase knee joint excursion (z = -2.701, p = 0.003), and greater knee flexion at initial contact (z = -2.803, p = 0.003) when the belt was donned. No differences were observed in step rate (z = -0.351, p = 0.363), foot inclination angle at initial contact (z = -2.090, p = 0.018), or peak knee flexion during stance (z = -1.172, p = 0.121). Findings suggest that donning a running belt can minimise specific high-risk biomechanical characteristics in runners with particular kinematic profiles.		[Greenberg, Eric T.; Galante, Juliana; Werner, William G.] New York Inst Technol, Dept Phys Therapy, Old Westbury, NY 11568 USA; [Garcia, Micah C.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Div Occupat Therapy & Phys Therapy, Mot Anal Lab, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA; [Greenberg, Eric T.] New York Inst Technol, Dept Phys Therapy, Old Westbury, NY 11568 USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000496311500001	37	Article; Article		
J	Bessone, Veronica; Hoeschele, Nadja; Schwirtz, Ansgar; Seiberl, Wolfgang								Validation of a new inertial measurement unit system based on different dynamic movements for future in-field applications								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	6			685	700		10.1080/14763141.2019.1671486			JUL 3 2022	2022	Using inertial measurement units (IMUs) in monitoring and analysing sport movements has become popular in sports research since it avoids the laboratory limitation. However, the accuracy of modern IMU-systems (hardware combined with software) needs to be validated using gold-standard systems as baseline. In this study, we investigated the feasibility of the aktos-t IMU-system for in-field biomechanical research by comparing its outputs in various tasks (repetitive movements, gait and jumping) undertaken by 14 participants, with those of an optoelectronic system. The results showed that the accuracy of aktos-t varies according to the task performed. The accuracy of pelvis, hip and knee joints ranged between acceptable (root mean squared error (RMSE) < 5 degrees) and tolerable (RMSE < 10 degrees) in gait, while the upper limb joints showed inaccuracy (RMSE > 10 degrees) and imprecision (coefficient of repeatability > 10 degrees) during the repetitive movement test. Jump impact appeared not to influence the IMU outcomes (p > 0.05). The main sources of error could be related to the IMU-alignment during the reference T-pose. Finally, the study provides researchers the means for evaluating the accuracy of aktos-t (hardware, software and biomechanical model) as sufficiently precise for its application in their in-field investigations.		[Bessone, Veronica; Hoeschele, Nadja; Schwirtz, Ansgar; Seiberl, Wolfgang] Tech Univ Munich, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Dept Biomech Sports, Munich, Germany; [Seiberl, Wolfgang] Bundeswehr Univ Munich, Inst Sport Sci, Neubiberg, Germany; [Bessone, Veronica] Tech Univ Munich, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Dept Biomech Sports, Munich, Germany								37							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000496098500001	32	Article; Article		
J	Aasa, Ulrika; Bengtsson, Victor; Berglund, Lars; Ohberg, Fredrik								Variability of lumbar spinal alignment among power- and weightlifters during the deadlift and barbell back squat								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	6			701	717		10.1080/14763141.2019.1675751			JUL 3 2022	2022	The aims of the study were to evaluate the relative and absolute variability of upper (T11-L2) and lower (L2-S2) lumbar spinal alignment in power- and weightlifters during the deadlift and back squat exercises, and to compare this alignment between the two lifting groups. Twenty-four competitive powerlifters (n = 14) and weightlifters (n = 10) performed three repetitions of the deadlift and the back squat exercises using a load equivalent to 70% of their respective one-repetition maximum. The main outcome measures were the three-dimensional lumbar spinal alignment for start position, minimum and maximum angle of their spinal alignment, and range of motion measured using inertial measurement units. Relative intra-trial reliability was calculated using the two-way random model intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and absolute reliability with minimal detectable change (MDC). The ICC ranged between 0.69 and 0.99 and the MDC between 1 degrees-8 degrees for the deadlift. Corresponding figures for the squat were 0.78-0.99 and 1 degrees-6 degrees. In all participants during both exercises, spinal adjustments were made in both thoracolumbar and lumbopelvic areas in all three dimensions. In conclusion, when performing three repetitions of the deadlift and the squat, lumbar spinal alignment of the lifters did not change much between repetitions and did not differ significantly between power- and weightlifters.		[Aasa, Ulrika; Bengtsson, Victor] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Physiotherapy, Umea, Sweden; [Berglund, Lars] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Sports Med, Umea, Sweden; [Ohberg, Fredrik] Umea Univ, Dept Radiat Sci, Umea, Sweden; [Aasa, Ulrika] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Physiotherapy, Umea, Sweden								27							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000496089200001	45	Article; Article		
J	Farias, Claudio; Wallhead, Tristan; Mesquita, Isabel								'The Project Changed My Life': Sport Education's Transformative Potential on Student Physical Literacy								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			263	278		10.1080/02701367.2019.1661948			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: This longitudinal study provided a retrospective examination of the impact of student participation in a year-long Sport Education curricular experience on physical literacy development. A focus was placed on students' reported motivation, attitudes and disposition to participate in physical education (PE) and sport, and their re-actualizations of a healthy sport culture in the years following the Sport Education experience. Methods: Three years following the Sport Education experience, a cohort of 24 tenth-grade students (nine girls and 15 boys) were traced back and invited to share their recollected memories and accounts of their PE experience and subsequent attributes of physical literacy. The data collection protocol included augmented memory retrieval techniques and a retrospective survey, which informed semi-structured individual and focus groups interviews. A thematic analysis of data was performed and trustworthiness criteria included data triangulation, crosschecking, and collaborative interpretational analysis. Results: Prolonged participation in a year-long Sport Education curriculum promoted a transformation in students' physical literacy dispositions, both within and outside the school context. Physical literacy attributes included empathetic attitudes toward others, resilience against discriminatory learning activities and a commitment of the participants to actively pursue equitable and meaningful participation in PE and sport. Embodied interpersonal, managerial, and peer-teaching skills sustained the participants' sport culture activism against impoverished instructional practices in PE. Conclusions: Prolonged participation in Sport Education, and consequential development of enthusiasm, competency, and literacy can positively contribute to individuals' lifelong physical literacy journey.		[Farias, Claudio; Mesquita, Isabel] Univ Porto, Porto, Portugal; [Wallhead, Tristan] Univ Wyoming, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Farias, Claudio] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Rua Doutor Placido Costa 91, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal								37							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000496108200001	38	Article; Article		
J	Feitosa, Wellington G.; Barbosa, Tiago M.; Correia, Ricardo de A.; Castro, Flavio A. de S.								Is V.O<sub>2peak</sub> a Valid Estimation of V.O<sub>2max</sub> in Swimmers with Physical Impairments?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			252	262		10.1080/02701367.2019.1660758			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Peak and maximal oxygen uptake ( and , respectively) are used in assessing aerobic power. For swimmers with physical impairments, it is unclear whether the physiological variables obtained in 200-m and Nx200-m tests are similar. The objective of this study is to assess the validity of as an estimator of and complementary physiological variables, in particular, carbon dioxide production (), respiratory exchange ratio (RER), minute-ventilation ( and absolute (HR) and relative (%HRmax) heart rates-which were obtained in a time trial test (200-m) and an incremental intermittent test (Nx200-m) performed by swimmers with physical impairments. Methods: Eleven well-trained swimmers with physical impairments performed 200-m all-out and Nx200-m from low to all-out (controlled by a visual pacer), both with a respiratory valve system and a portable gas analyzer. Results: A paired Student's t-test showed no statistical difference (p > .05) for all comparisons. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was 0.97 and 0.98 for in l/min and ml/kg/min, respectively; ICC = 0.75 to 0.9 for (l/min and ml/kg/min), (in l/min) and HR (beats/min); ICC = 0.5 and 0.75 for %HRmax; and ICC < 0.5 for RER. Passing-Bablok regression showed that the dispersions were acceptable, considering the proportionality, except for HR and %HRmax. Bland-Altman method showed a high level of agreement for all variables. Conclusions: The and , as well as the physiological variables and HR obtained, respectively, by 200-m and Nx200-m tests in swimmers with physical impairment were not different.		[Feitosa, Wellington G.; Correia, Ricardo de A.; Castro, Flavio A. de S.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Feitosa, Wellington G.] Univ Estadual Ceara, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Polytech Inst Braganca, Braganca, Portugal; [Barbosa, Tiago M.] Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Feitosa, Wellington G.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Ctr Natatorio, Escola Educ Fis Fisioterapia & Danca, Rua Felizardo 750, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000496098200001	47	Article; Article		
J	Roure, Cedric; Pasco, Denis; Benoit, Nicolas; Deldicque, Louise								Impact of a Design-Based Bike Exergame on Young Adults' Physical Activity Metrics and Situational Interest								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			309	315		10.1080/02701367.2019.1665621			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Despite the benefits of commercial exergames, in the practical application, players might not be spending sufficient time in physical activity levels compatible with health outcomes. We adopted a design-based exergame approach to build a bike exergame called Greedy Rabbit. The purpose of this study was to identify the impact of Greedy Rabbit on players' physical activity metrics and situational interest. Method: Sixty undergraduate students were assigned to two groups: an experimental group playing Greedy Rabbit (N = 41) and a control group playing a placebo version of Greedy Rabbit (N = 19). The physical activity metrics measured were maximum oxygen consumption, heart rate and cadence. Results: The experimental group reported higher scores for all physical activity metrics and for two dimensions of situational interest (instant enjoyment and attention demand). Furthermore, the physical activity metrics increased more during the exergame for the experimental group, reaching the standard guidelines for vigorous physical activity. Conclusion: This study demonstrated that a design-based bike exergame might be a good option to enhance players' health-related physical activity outcomes and situational interest.		[Roure, Cedric] Univ Teacher Educ, Zurich, Switzerland; [Pasco, Denis] Univ Bourgogne Franche Comte, Besancon, France; [Benoit, Nicolas; Deldicque, Louise] Catholic Univ Louvain, Louvain, Belgium; [Roure, Cedric] UER EPS, Haute Ecole Pedag Vaud, 25 Ave Cour, CH-1014 Lausanne, Switzerland								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000496101600001	31	Article; Article		
J	Rossen, Jenny; Von Rosen, Philip; Johansson, Unn-Britt; Brismar, Kerstin; Hagstromer, Maria								Associations of physical activity and sedentary behavior with cardiometabolic biomarkers in prediabetes and type 2 diabetes: a compositional data analysis								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	2			222	228		10.1080/00913847.2019.1684811			APR 2 2020	2020	Objectives: To investigate the associations between objectively measured sedentary behavior (SB), light-intensity physical activity (LIPA) and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) and cardiometabolic and endocrine biomarkers, and to estimate the associations of reallocating time from one behavior to another with cardiometabolic and endocrine biomarkers. Methods: Baseline data from participants diagnosed with prediabetes or type 2 diabetes, n = 175, 58% men, mean (SD) age = 64.4 (7.7), recruited to a physical activity intervention was used. Time spent in SB, LIPA and MVPA was measured by accelerometer and transformed into isometric log-ratio coordinates. The associations between time spent in SB, LIPA and MVPA and biomarkers were examined by linear regression models. The change in each outcome of reallocating time between the three behaviors was estimated. Results: The findings show strong positive associations of time spent in MVPA and negative associations of time spent in SB relative to time spent in the other behaviors with sagittal abdominal diameter (SAD) and homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and negative associations of time spent in SB with high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Theoretically, reallocation of 19 minutes MVPA to SB or to LIPA was associated with a 17% and 17% larger SAD, 39% and 36% larger HOMA-IR values and 3.3% and 2.3% lower levels of HDL, respectively. Conclusion: In conclusion, our analysis from a time-use perspective supports the current evidence that sedentary time is devastating for the cardiometabolic health. While LIPA probably requires more time, maintaining or increasing time in MVPA are the most important features of the time use behaviors when promoting a favorable cardiometabolic risk profile in adults with prediabetes and type 2 diabetes.		[Rossen, Jenny; Johansson, Unn-Britt; Hagstromer, Maria] Sophiahemmet Univ, Dept Hlth Promot Sci, POB 5605, S-11486 Stockholm, Sweden; [Von Rosen, Philip; Hagstromer, Maria] Karolinska Inst, Dept Neurobiol Care Sci & Soc, Div Physiotherapy, Stockholm, Sweden; [Johansson, Unn-Britt] Karolinska Inst, Dept Clin Sci & Educ, Sodersjukhuset, Stockholm, Sweden; [Brismar, Kerstin] Karolinska Inst, Dept Mol Med & Surg, Stockholm, Sweden; [Brismar, Kerstin] Karolinska Univ Hosp, Rolf Luft Res Ctr Diabet & Endocrinol, Stockholm, Sweden; [Hagstromer, Maria] Karolinska Univ Hosp, Allied Hlth Professionals Funct, Funct Area Occupat Therapy & Physiotherapy, Stockholm, Sweden; [Rossen, Jenny] Sophiahemmet Univ, Dept Hlth Promot Sci, POB 5605, S-11486 Stockholm, Sweden								25							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000495926000001	34	Article; Article		
J	Gift, Paul								Moving the Needle in MMA: On the Marginal Revenue Product of UFC Fighters								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	2			176	209	1527002519885432	10.1177/1527002519885432			FEB 2020	2020	This article analyzes fighter marginal products (MP) and marginal revenue products (MRP) for the largest component of Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) revenues: content. Most bouts are fought in the presence of fixed content revenues, and most fighters go their entire careers without supplying labor services for variable revenue pay-per-view (PPV) main cards. After demonstrating that winning does not sufficiently explain variation in PPV buys, I estimate fighter MP and MRP using U.S. consumer search activity from Google Trends as a proxy for fighter popularity. Results suggest that a sizable percentage of UFC fighters generated little to no MRP, while a small number of PPV main card fighters were responsible for 75% of aggregate MRP. Other PPV main card fighters who did not drive the majority of MRP appeared to generate more than some compensation estimates. An apparent decline over time in the UFC's inframarginal consumer base is also discussed.		[Gift, Paul] Pepperdine Univ, Pepperdine Graziadio Business Sch, 6100 Ctr Dr, Los Angeles, CA 90045 USA; [Gift, Paul] Pepperdine Univ, Pepperdine Graziadio Business Sch, 6100 Ctr Dr, Los Angeles, CA 90045 USA								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000496362900001	46	Article; Article		
J	Humphreys, Brad R.; Johnson, Candon								The Effect of Superstars on Game Attendance: Evidence From the NBA								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	2			152	175	1527002519885441	10.1177/1527002519885441			FEB 2020	2020	Economic models predict that "superstar" players generate externalities that increase attendance and other revenue sources beyond their individual contributions to team success. We investigate the effect of superstar players on individual game attendance at National Basketball Association games from 1981-1982 through 2013-2014. Regression models control for censoring due to sellouts, quality of teams, unobservable team/season heterogeneity, and expected game outcomes. The results show higher home and away attendance associated with some superstar players. Michael Jordan generated the largest superstar attendance externality, generating an additional 4,837/4,236 fans at home/away games.		[Humphreys, Brad R.; Johnson, Candon] West Virginia Univ, Chambers Coll Business & Econ, 1601 Univ Ave,POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, Chambers Coll Business & Econ, 1601 Univ Ave,POB 6025, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								72							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000496074900001	19	Article; Article		
J	Erculj, Frane; Vidic, Matic; Leskosek, Bojan								Shooting efficiency and structure of shooting in 3 x 3 basketball compared to 5v5 basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	1			91	98	1747954119887722	10.1177/1747954119887722			FEB 2020	2020	This article presents and analyses certain playing characteristics of men's and women's 3 x 3 basketball in relation to shooting at the basket. Our intention was to compare this young and developing basketball discipline with the more established and traditional 5v5 basketball. For this purpose, over 400 matches were analysed in the U18 age category during the men's and women's European Championship (5v5 Basketball) and the Youth Olympic Games (3 x 3 Basketball). The research confirms some differences in the efficiency and structure of shooting. It can generally be said that male and female 3 x 3 basketball players take more long-distance shots (behind the 6.75 m line) and take fewer free throws than their counterparts in 5v5 basketball. When shooting from behind the 6.75 m line, both male and female 3 x 3 basketball players are less efficient than their 5v5 basketball counterparts, and similar applies to free throws. The reasons for these differences may entail many factors, including differences in the game rules, the playing conditions on outdoor courts, different technical and tactical requirements and the characteristics (style) of playing as well as the quality and performance level of basketball players.		[Erculj, Frane; Leskosek, Bojan] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia; [Vidic, Matic] FIBA, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Erculj, Frane] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000496059600001	27	Article; Article		
J	Scarneo-Miller, Samantha E.; Sorge, Jarrett E.; Beltz, Eleanor M.; Martinez, Jessica C.; Root, Hayley J.; Burland, Julie P.; Trojian, Thomas H.; DiStefano, Lindsay J.								The relationship between single-limb squat and jump-cut kinematics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	5			654	665		10.1080/14763141.2019.1674913			MAY 28 2022	2022	No objective criteria exist for progressing athletes into cutting manoeuvres following ACL reconstruction (ACLR). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationship between a jump-cut task (JC) and the single-limb squat (SLS) in both ACLR and healthy controls. Case-control, laboratory based. Twenty-three participants with a history of ACLR (Age = 21 +/- 3 years; Height = 174.5 +/- 7.2 cm; Mass = 76.2 +/- 9.9 kg) and 23 healthy controls participants (Age = 21 +/- 3 years; Height = 173.8 +/- 9.2 cm; Mass = 75.0 +/- 10.5 kg) were included. Kinematics were collected bilaterally. Correlations between tasks were evaluated for kinematics. Independent sample t-tests were used to evaluate differences between groups for each dependent variable. Peak trunk rotation and medial knee displacement were strongly correlated (p < 0.001, r(2) = 0.63), between tasks. ACLR group performed SLS and JC tasks with less sagittal plane motion compared to healthy controls (p < 0.05). Lack of frontal and transverse plane control during SLS resulted in positions of increased lateral trunk flexion, hip adduction, and medial knee displacement during JC. The SLS may be considered for use as a clinical predictor of JC during rehabilitation following ACLR.		[Scarneo-Miller, Samantha E.] Univ Connecticut, Korey Stringer Inst, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Sorge, Jarrett E.; Burland, Julie P.; DiStefano, Lindsay J.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Beltz, Eleanor M.] Emory & Henry Coll, Dept Athlet Training, Emory, VA USA; [Martinez, Jessica C.] Old Dominion Univ, Sch Rehabil Sci, Norfolk, VA USA; [Root, Hayley J.] Monmouth Univ, Dept Athlet Training, West Long Branch, NJ USA; [Trojian, Thomas H.] Drexel Univ, Coll Med, Philadelphia, PA USA; [DiStefano, Lindsay J.] Univ Connecticut, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Farmington, CT 06269 USA; [DiStefano, Lindsay J.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [DiStefano, Lindsay J.] Univ Connecticut, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Farmington, CT 06269 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000495532600001	44	Article; Article		
J	Hemingway, Benedict H. Stephens; Burgess, Katherine E.; Elyan, Eyad; Swinton, Paul A.								The effects of measurement error and testing frequency on the fitness-fatigue model applied to resistance training: A simulation approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	1			60	71	1747954119887721	10.1177/1747954119887721			FEB 2020	2020	This study investigated the effects of measurement error and testing frequency on prediction accuracy of the standard fitness-fatigue model. A simulation-based approach was used to systematically assess measurement error and frequency inputs commonly used when monitoring the training of athletes. Two hypothetical athletes (intermediate and advanced) were developed and realistic training loads and daily 'true' power values were generated using the fitness-fatigue model across 16 weeks. Simulations were then completed by adding Gaussian measurement errors to true values with mean 0 and set standard deviations to recreate more and less reliable measurement practices used in real-world settings. Errors were added to the model training phase (weeks 1-8) and sampling of data was used to recreate different testing frequencies (every day to once per week) when obtaining parameter estimates. In total, 210 sets of simulations (N = 10(4) iterations) were completed using an iterative hill-climbing optimisation technique. Parameter estimates were then combined with training loads in the model testing phase (weeks 9-16) to quantify prediction errors. Regression analyses identified positive associations between prediction errors and the linear combination of measurement error and testing frequency ( R adj 2 =0.87-0.94). Significant model improvements (P < 0.001) were obtained across all scenarios by including an interaction term demonstrating greater deleterious effects of measurement error at low testing frequencies.The findings of this simulation study represent a lower-bound case and indicate that in real-world settings, where a fitness-fatigue model is used to predict training response, measurement practices that generate coefficients of variation greater than approximate to 4% will not provide satisfactory results.		[Hemingway, Benedict H. Stephens; Burgess, Katherine E.; Swinton, Paul A.] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Elyan, Eyad] Robert Gordon Univ, Sch Comp Sci & Digital Media, Aberdeen, Scotland; [Swinton, Paul A.] Robert Gordon Univ, Fac Hlth & Social Care, Sch Hlth Sci Off, Garthdee Rd, Aberdeen AB10 7QG, Scotland								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000496061100001	38	Article; Article		
J	Nicholson, Gareth; Walker, Josh; Dawson, Zoe; Bissas, Athanassios; Harris, Nick								Morphological and functional outcomes of operatively treated Achilles tendon ruptures								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	3			290	297		10.1080/00913847.2019.1685364			JUL 2 2020	2020	Objectives: Achilles tendon rupture leads to functional impairments and these may be underpinned by morphological changes in the muscle-tendon unit. The functional performance of the injured limb will be impaired regardless of time since surgery and these impairments occur alongside changes in muscle-tendon morphology. Methods: Following operative treatment of Achilles tendon rupture and short-term immobilization, 12 patients completed a battery of tests during a single visit to the laboratory (performed an average of 4.4 +/- 2.6 years post-surgery). Patients completed the Achilles' tendon rupture score (ATRS), tests of the ankle and hip range of motion (ROM) and ultrasound measurements of muscle-tendon architecture. Data on isokinetic (30 degrees/s, 60 degrees/s) plantar flexion strength, jumping performance and walking-running were also collected on the same visit. Percentage deficits were expressed relative to the non-injured limb and determined for statistical significance (p < 0.05). Relationships between outcome measures and time since surgery were tested using Pearson's correlation coefficients (p < 0.05). Results: The repaired limb showed a shorter muscle fascicle length (12.1-19.6%), increased fascicle pennation (18.0 +/- 22.14%) and reduced muscle thickness (9.1-20.1%) in the gastrocnemius and/or soleus along with greater tendon cross-sectional area (46.7 +/- 34.47%). Functionally, the repaired limb displayed lower countermovement jump height (-12.6 +/- 15.68%) and longer drop jump contact times (5.5 +/- 5.7%). Also, the repaired limb showed reduced hip internal-external ROM (6.3 +/- 8.2%) but no differences existed between limbs for plantar flexion ROM and strength or gait characteristics. Good ATRS outcomes were reported (mean: 87.9 +/- 16.2, range: 43-100) which related to time since surgery (r = 0.79) but individual ATRS items did not correlate with corresponding objective measures. Conclusion: Plantar flexor atrophy following surgically treated Achilles tendon rupture is partially compensated for by remodeling of the fascicles; however, impairments may still persist many years into the postoperative period although these may be more pronounced in high-velocity activities.		[Nicholson, Gareth; Walker, Josh; Dawson, Zoe; Harris, Nick] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sport, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Bissas, Athanassios] Athlet Biomech, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Nicholson, Gareth] Leeds Beckett Univ, Fairfax Hall,Room 107,Headingley Campus, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								21							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000494996600001	48	Article; Article		
J	Lynch, Kyle R.; Anokye, Nana K.; Vlachopoulos, Dimitris; Barbieri, Fabio A.; Turi-Lynch, Bruna C.; Codogno, Jamile S.; Agostinete, Ricardo R.; Fernandes, Romulo A.								Impact of sports participation on incidence of bone traumatic fractures and health-care costs among adolescents: ABCD - Growth Study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	3			298	303		10.1080/00913847.2019.1685859			JUL 2 2020	2020	Objective: To analyze the risk of bone traumatic fractures according to the engagement in sports, as well as to identify the potential impact of sports participation and traumatic fractures on health-care costs among adolescents. Methods: This is a longitudinal 12-month study of 285 adolescents of both sexes in Brazil. We assessed the occurrence of traumatic fractures and health-care services (hospitalizations, medicine use, medical consultations, and exams) by phone contact every month for 12 months. Adolescents were divided into four groups according to sport characteristics: non-sport (n = 104), non-impact sport (swimming [n = 34]), martial arts (n = 49 [judo, karate, kung-Fu]) and impact sports (n = 98 [track-and-field, basketball, gymnastics, tennis, and baseball]). Results: The incidence of new fractures was 2.1%. The overall costs accounted during the 12-month follow-up were U$ 3,259.66. Swimmers (US$ 13.86) had higher health-care costs than non-sport (US$ 1.82), martial arts (US$ 2.23), and impact sports (US$ 2.32). Conclusion: swimming seems to be related to higher health-care costs among adolescents.		[Lynch, Kyle R.; Codogno, Jamile S.; Agostinete, Ricardo R.; Fernandes, Romulo A.] Sao Paulo State Univ, UNESP, Dept Phys Educ, Postgrad Program Movement Sci, Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil; [Anokye, Nana K.] Brunel Univ, Inst Environm Hlth & Soc, London, England; [Vlachopoulos, Dimitris] Univ Exeter, Childrens Hlth & Exercise Res Ctr, Sport & Hlth Sci, Exeter, Devon, England; [Barbieri, Fabio A.] Sao Paulo State Univ, UNESP, Dept Phys Educ, Human Movement Res Lab MOVI Lab, Campus Bauru, Bauru, Brazil; [Turi-Lynch, Bruna C.; Codogno, Jamile S.; Agostinete, Ricardo R.; Fernandes, Romulo A.] Sao Paulo State Univ, UNESP, Dept Phys Educ, Lab Invest Exercise LIVE, Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil; [Fernandes, Romulo A.] Sao Paulo State Univ, UNESP, Roberto Simonsen St,305 Educ Ctr, BR-19060000 Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000494400600001	34	Article; Article		
J	Hoffmann, Matt D.; Young, Bradley W.; Rathwell, Scott; Callary, Bettina								Comparing Masters athletes with varying degrees of coaching for psychological need satisfaction and frustration								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	1			3	8	1747954119887300	10.1177/1747954119887300			FEB 2020	2020	Exploratory research suggests Masters athletes (MAs; adult athletes >35 years) derive benefits from the coached context. This study sought to compare groups of MAs with varying degrees of coaching for reports of psychological need satisfaction and frustration. A total of 561 individual sport MAs completed surveys assessing psychological need satisfaction and frustration. MAs self-categorized into one of three groups: (1) coached MAs (n = 284), (2) moderately coached MAs (n = 92), and (3) non-coached MAs (n = 185). Analyses comprised ANOVAs followed by Games-Howell post hoc tests. Coached and moderately coached MAs reported greater relatedness satisfaction than non-coached MAs. Coached MAs also reported greater relatedness satisfaction than moderately coached MAs. Coached and moderately coached MAs reported greater autonomy frustration than non-coached MAs, whereas coached MAs reported lower relatedness frustration than moderately coached and non-coached MAs. The findings suggest the coached context assists adult athletes in fulfilling their need for belongingness. Similarly, results imply that receiving frequent exposure to coaching helps MAs experience lower feelings of relatedness frustration. Lastly, findings suggest that the structure provided by coaches can have the inevitable consequence of slightly frustrating MAs' autonomy. Future research should explore how coach-mediated processes explain MAs' psychological need satisfaction and frustration.		[Hoffmann, Matt D.; Callary, Bettina] Cape Breton Univ, Dept Experiential Studies Community & Sport, Sydney, NS, Canada; [Hoffmann, Matt D.; Young, Bradley W.] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Rathwell, Scott] Univ Lethbridge, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Lethbridge, AB, Canada; [Hoffmann, Matt D.] Cape Breton Univ, Dept Experiential Studies Community & Sport, Sydney, NS, Canada								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000496072500001	24	Article; Article		
J	Meckel, Yoav; Balikin, Kiril; Eliakim, Alon								Pre- and mid-season repeated sprint ability of soccer referees from the first and second divisions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	1			82	90	1747954119887301	10.1177/1747954119887301			FEB 2020	2020	The main aim of the study was to investigate the differences in repeated sprint ability of first- compared to second-division referees at the beginning and in the middle of the soccer season. Twenty-seven main and 51 assistant referees, from the first (age 36.2 +/- 5.3) and the second (age 28.8 +/- 3.9) soccer divisions, performed two fitness tests-at the beginning and at mid-season, consisting of a repeated sprint test of 6 x 40 m and 5 x 30 m sprints for the referees and assistant referees, respectively. While no differences were found among the first division's main referees, significant improvement (p < .05) was found among the second division's main referees at mid-season compared to the beginning of the season in ideal sprint time (31.97 +/- 1.5 vs. 32.47 +/- 1.3 s) and total sprint time (32.62 +/- 1.4 vs. 33.10 +/- 1.1 s), respectively. The main referees' ideal sprint time and total sprint time were significantly faster (p < .05) in the second compared to the first division, at pre-season and at mid-season. Significant correlations were found between age and ideal sprint time (r = .63) and age and total sprint time (r = .66) among the main referees, but not between age and performance indices among the assistant referees. The findings demonstrated a superiority of the second over the first division's referees in anaerobic capabilities, suggesting that training program should be specific for each division. It may also indicate that variables other than physical capabilities determine referees' professional status and referee's advancement from second to the first division.		[Meckel, Yoav; Balikin, Kiril; Eliakim, Alon] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Acad Coll Wingate, Life Sci Dept, IL-42902 Netanya, Israel; [Eliakim, Alon] Tel Aviv Univ, Sackler Sch Med, Child Hlth & Sport Ctr, Pediat Dept,Meir Med Ctr, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Meckel, Yoav] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Acad Coll Wingate, Life Sci Dept, IL-42902 Netanya, Israel								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000495558000001	31	Article; Article		
J	Chang, Ching-Hung; Leigh, Robinson; Shu, Shih-Tung; Ma, Shang-Chun								Fitness innovativeness, duration of stay, and revisit behavior: a moderation relationship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	4			634	645		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2018-0107			NOV 4 2019	2019	Purpose Customers' innovativeness regarding services and products affects their purchase behavior. The purpose of this paper is to examine the moderation effect of fitness innovativeness (FI) (domain-specific innovativeness) and duration of stay on fitness customers' revisit frequency. Design/methodology/approach This is a quantitative study. The purposive sampling survey method was used to obtain samples from the Taipei Nangang Fitness Center. Data were analyzed by moderated regression analysis. Findings The empirical results from 192 valid questionnaires that were obtained for data analysis revealed that FI has a positive impact on revisit frequency, and this impact is further increased if an individual is inclined to exercise and to stay longer at the fitness center. Originality/value A matrix of fitness innovator segments was developed to illustrate the research and managerial implications.		[Chang, Ching-Hung] Natl Univ Kaohsiung, Dept Kinesiol Hlth & Leisure Studies, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Leigh, Robinson] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Shu, Shih-Tung] Natl Kaohsiung Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Mkt & Distribut Management, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; [Ma, Shang-Chun] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan; [Ma, Shang-Chun] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Inst Phys Educ Hlth & Leisure Studies, Tainan, Taiwan								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475400006	56	Article; Article		
J	Karjaluoto, Heikki; Paakkonen, Lasse								An empirical assessment of employer branding as a form of sport event sponsorship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	4			666	682		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2018-0103			NOV 4 2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to expand and test Backhaus and Tikoo's (2004) employer branding (EB) conceptual framework from the perspective of internal EB in a sport event sponsorship context. Design/methodology/approach This study developed a set of hypotheses, which were tested in the context of a business-to-business multinational organization's sport event sponsorship project. Empirical data were collected from 716 employees of the case company after the sponsorship project was complete. Findings The results support all the hypotheses and reveal that a sport event sponsorship project can act as a means to achieving EB goals in the investigated context. Originality/value The study adds to the literature by being among the first empirical studies to have tested the effects of EB among current employees via a sponsorship project.		[Karjaluoto, Heikki; Paakkonen, Lasse] Univ Jyvaskyla, Sch Business & Econ, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Karjaluoto, Heikki] Univ Jyvaskyla, Sch Business & Econ, Jyvaskyla, Finland								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475400008	67	Article; Article		
J	Burton, Nick								Exploring user sentiment towards sponsorship and ambush marketing								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	4			583	602		10.1108/IJSMS-03-2019-0026			NOV 4 2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to explore consumer attitudes towards ambush marketing and official event sponsorship through the lens of sentiment analysis, and to examine social media users' ethical responses to digital event marketing campaigns during the 2018 FIFA World Cup. Design/methodology/approach The study employed a sentiment analysis, examining Twitter users' utilization of sponsor and non-sponsor promotional hashtags. Statistical modelling programme R was used to access Twitter's API, enabling the analysis and coding of user tweets pertaining to six marketing campaigns. The valence of each tweet - as well as the apparent user motivation underlying each post - was assessed, providing insight into Twitter users' ethical impressions of sponsor and ambush marketer activities on social media and online engagement with social media marketing. Findings The study's findings indicate that consumer attitudes towards ambush marketing may be significantly more positive than previously thought. Users' attitudes towards ambush marketing appear significantly more positive than previously assumed, as users of social media emerged as highly responsive to creative and value-added non-sponsor campaigns. Originality/value The findings affirm that sentiment analysis may afford scholars and practitioners a viable means of assessing consumer attitudes towards social marketing activations, dependent upon campaign objectives and strategy. The study provides a new and invaluable context to consumer affect and ambush ethics research, advancing sponsorship and ambush marketing delivery and social sponsorship analytical practice.		[Burton, Nick] Brock Univ, Dept Sport Management, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Burton, Nick] Brock Univ, Dept Sport Management, St Catharines, ON, Canada								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475400003	79	Article; Article		
J	Dick, Christopher								The effect of the valence of sponsorship information on consumers' attitudes toward the sponsor brand								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	4			603	616		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2018-0091			NOV 4 2019	2019	Purpose To date, research on sponsorship considers the effects of only positive or only negative sponsorship information on consumers' attitudes toward the sponsor brand. However, in practice, sometimes mixed information (positive and negative) is available that influences consumers' sponsor evaluations. To mirror the information situation of the real world, the purpose of this paper is to investigate how the valence of sponsorship information (only positive vs mixed vs only negative) and the strength of sponsorship information (weak vs strong) influence the consumers' attitudes toward the sponsor brand. Design/methodology/approach This research uses an experimental research design (n=210). Data were collected among students of a German university. Findings The results reveal that when the strength of information was weak, attitudes in the mixed information condition were not significantly worse than in the only positive condition and significantly better than in the only negative condition. In addition, when the strength of information was strong, attitudes in the mixed information condition were significantly worse than in the only positive condition and significantly better than in the only negative condition. Originality/value This study expands the research on the effects of available sponsorship information on consumers' sponsor evaluation. The present research highlights the effects of different types of sponsorship information on consumers' attitudes and considers the strength of information as a boundary condition of these effects.		[Dick, Christopher] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Dept Sport Business Adm, Cologne, Germany; [Dick, Christopher] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Dept Sport Business Adm, Cologne, Germany								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475400004	45	Article; Article		
J	DeFroda, Steven F.; Yang, Daniel S.; Donnelly, Joseph C.; Bokshan, Steven L.; Owens, Brett D.; Daniels, Alan H.								Trends in the surgical treatment of meniscal tears in patients with and without concurrent anterior cruciate ligament tears								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	2			229	235		10.1080/00913847.2019.1685363			APR 2 2020	2020	Objectives: Meniscal and anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears are common injuries. The purpose of this study was to determine trends in meniscal repair and meniscectomy both in the presence and absence of ACL reconstruction (ACLR). Methods: The PearlDiver database (, Fort Wayne, IN) was queried for surgical management of patients who underwent arthroscopic meniscectomy (Current Procedural Terminology [CPT] codes 29880, 29881), meniscus repair (29882, 29883), and ACLR (29888) from 2010 to 2015. Patient groups included meniscectomy alone, meniscus repair alone, meniscus repair followed by meniscectomy, ACLR with meniscus repair, and ACLR with meniscus repair followed by meniscectomy. Linear regression was performed to determine the significance of yearly trend across each procedure. Statistical analysis was performed with RStudio, Version 1.1.442 (RStudio Inc. Boston, MA) for alpha value of .05. Results: The incidence of isolated meniscectomies decreased from 32.5/10,000 to 28.3/10,000 across the study period (p = 0.0230), whereas the incidence of isolated meniscus repairs and all meniscus repairs remained unchanged (p = 0.3000, p = 0.1260). For patients undergoing concomitant meniscal repair and ACLR, the highest proportion of patients was in the age range 15-24 years old with 45.7% of patients being 15-19. Of the ACLR, 18.6% involved a concomitant meniscus repair, and 54.0% involved a concomitant meniscectomy. The risk of subsequent meniscectomy was less in patients undergoing meniscal repair with ACLR than in patients undergoing isolated meniscal repair (10.8% versus 12.4%; aOR = 0.71, 95% CI 0.53-0.95, p = 0.0226). Conclusions: The highest rates of concurrent meniscal repair with ACLR are in the 15-24-year-old population. From 2010 to 2015, the rate of meniscectomy declined while that of isolated meniscal repairs, as well as meniscal repair with ACLR, remained stable. Patients undergoing meniscal repair with ACLR had lower rates of subsequent meniscectomy compared to patients undergoing isolated meniscal repair in the absence of ACL tear.		[DeFroda, Steven F.; Yang, Daniel S.; Donnelly, Joseph C.; Bokshan, Steven L.; Owens, Brett D.; Daniels, Alan H.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [DeFroda, Steven F.] Brown Univ, Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA								21							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000493628100001	20	Article; Article		
J	Han, Ki Hoon; Como, Christopher; Kim, Jemin; Hung, Cheng-Ju; Hasan, Mohammad; Kwon, Young-Hoo								Effects of pelvis-shoulders torsional separation style on kinematic sequence in golf driving								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	6			663	685		10.1080/14763141.2019.1629617			NOV 2 2019	2019	The golfer's body (trunk/arms/club) can be modeled as an inclined axle-chain system and the rotations of its parts observed on the functional swing plane (FSP) can represent the actual angular motions closely. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of pelvis-shoulders torsional separation style on the kinematic sequences employed by the axle-chain system in golf driving. Seventy-four male skilled golfers (handicap <= 3) were assigned to five groups based on their shoulder girdle motion and X-factor stretch characteristics: Late Shoulder Acceleration, Large Downswing Stretch, Large Backswing Stretch, Medium Total Stretch, and Small Total Stretch. Swing trials were captured by an optical system and the hip-line, thorax, shoulder-line, upper-lever, club, and wrist angular positions/velocities were calculated on the FSP. Kinematic sequences were established based on the timings of the peak angular velocities (backswing and downswing sequences) and the backswing-to-downswing transition time points (transition sequence). The backswing and transition sequences were somewhat consistent across the groups, showing full or partial proximal-to-distal sequences with minor variations. The downswing sequence was inconsistent across the groups and the angular velocity peaks of the body segments were not significantly separated. Various swing characteristics associated with the separation styles influenced the motion sequences.		[Han, Ki Hoon; Como, Christopher; Kim, Jemin; Hung, Cheng-Ju; Hasan, Mohammad; Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womans Univ, Coll Hlth Sci, Sch Hlth Promot & Kinesiol, Biomech Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Kwon, Young-Hoo] Texas Womans Univ, Coll Hlth Sci, Sch Hlth Promot & Kinesiol, Biomech Lab, Denton, TX 76204 USA								19							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487274600008	28	Article; Article		
J	Peacock, James C. A.; Ball, Kevin								Strategies to improve impact efficiency in football kicking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	6			608	621		10.1080/14763141.2018.1452970			NOV 2 2019	2019	In football, kicking with high ball velocity can increase scoring opportunities and reduce the likelihood of interception. Efficient energy transfer from foot to ball during impact is important to attain a high ball velocity. It is considered impact efficiency can be increased by reducing the change in ankle plantarflexion during foot-ball impact. However, conflicting evidence exists, questioning its effectiveness as a coaching cue. The aim of the present study was to systematically analyse joint stiffness, foot velocity and impact location with a mechanical kicking machine to determine if change in ankle plantarflexion during foot-ball impact and ball velocity are influenced. Sagittal plane data of the shank, foot and ball were measured using high-speed video (4,000 Hz). Increasing joint stiffness reduced change in ankle plantarflexion and increased ball velocity from a greater effective mass. Increasing foot velocity increased change in ankle plantarflexion and increased ball velocity. Distal impact locations increased change in ankle plantarflexion and reduced ball velocity as coefficient of restitution decreased. These results identify that change in ankle plantarflexion is a dependent variable during foot-ball impact and does not directly influence ball velocity. Coaches can assess ankle motion during impact to provide feedback to athletes on their impact efficiency.		[Peacock, James C. A.; Ball, Kevin] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Peacock, James C. A.] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487274600004	16	Article; Article		
J	de Campos Abreu, Edgardo Alvares; Santos Araujo, Silvia Ribeiro; da Cunha Peixoto Cancado, Gustavo Henrique; Pereira de Andrade, Andre Gustavo; Chagas, Mauro Heleno; Karl Menzel, Hans-Joachim								TEST-retest reliability of kinetic variables measured on campus board in sport climbers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	6			649	662		10.1080/14763141.2018.1456558			NOV 2 2019	2019	Sport climbers frequently use campus board (CB) to improve their upper limb strength under similar conditions of high-difficulty sport climbing routes. The objective of this study was to assess the test-retest reliability of peak force and impulse measured using a CB instrumented with two load cells on starting holds. The same evaluator examined 22 climbers on two days with 48 h between the assessments. The participants performed five concentric lunges (CL) and five lunges with stretch-shortening cycle with 1 min intervals between repetitions and 10 min between exercises. All variables were associated with significant intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) values (p = 0.001), and none variable showed systematic errors (p > 0.05). Peak force ICC was higher than 0.88, and the standard error of measurement (SEM%) was less than 5%. Impulse ICC for the CL was greater than 0.90, and the SEM% was less than 14%. We conclude that the kinetic variables measured using the CB were reliable. The ability of the hands to maintain contact with the holds (peak force) and the abilities of the arms and shoulders vertically move the centre of mass (impulse) should be taken into account by coaches on CB training prescription as well for further research.		[de Campos Abreu, Edgardo Alvares; Santos Araujo, Silvia Ribeiro; da Cunha Peixoto Cancado, Gustavo Henrique; Pereira de Andrade, Andre Gustavo; Chagas, Mauro Heleno; Karl Menzel, Hans-Joachim] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Dept Sports, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Karl Menzel, Hans-Joachim] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Sch Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Dept Sports, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487274600007	33	Article; Article		
J	Dinunzio, Christopher; Porter, Nathaniel; Van Scoy, John; Cordice, Derrick; McCulloch, Ryan S.								Alterations in kinematics and muscle activation patterns with the addition of a kipping action during a pull-up activity								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	6			622	635		10.1080/14763141.2018.1452971			NOV 2 2019	2019	Recently, addition of a gymnastics glide kip to a standard pull-up (SPU) has resulted in the kipping pull-up (KPU). Changes in muscle activation and kinematics were evaluated with eleven athletes performing sets of 5 SPU and 5 KPU. Surface electromyography of upper body and lower body muscles was recorded along with movement kinematics obtained via markers and motion tracking software. Most kinematic variables were significantly higher in the KPU including (KPU minus SPU deg): Max hip angle (48.8 degrees +/- 6.8 degrees, p < 0.001) and max knee angle (56.5 degrees +/- 11.3 degrees, p < 0.001). The recruitment of core and lower body muscles was significantly higher in the KPU (% MVIC increase): rectus abdominis (28.7 +/- 4.7%, p < 0.001), external oblique (21.8 +/- 4.1%, p < 0.001), iliopsoas (26.1 +/- 5.5%, p = 0.001) and tensor fasciae latae (13.5 +/- 2.3%, p < 0.001). Correspondingly, the biceps brachii had lower activation in the KPU (% MVIC decrease): (26.7 +/- 0.6%, p = 0.006). Depending on the athlete's goal, they may elect to perform an SPU for higher upper body muscle activation; or the KPU for more full-body activation with the potential to perform more repetitions through reduced upper body fatigue.		[Dinunzio, Christopher; Porter, Nathaniel; Van Scoy, John; Cordice, Derrick; McCulloch, Ryan S.] Gonzaga Univ, Sch Nursing & Human Physiol, Dept Human Physiol, Spokane, WA 99258 USA; [McCulloch, Ryan S.] Gonzaga Univ, Sch Nursing & Human Physiol, Dept Human Physiol, Spokane, WA 99258 USA								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487274600005	35	Article; Article		
J	Cho, Ho-Jung; Kim, Soyeon; Jung, Joon-Yong; Kwak, Dai-Soon								Foot and ankle joint movements of dancers and non-dancers: a comparative study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	6			587	594		10.1080/14763141.2018.1452967			NOV 2 2019	2019	Ballerinas use their ankle joints more extremely and sustain injuries on the ankle joint more frequently than non-dancers. Therefore, the ankle movement of dancers is important and should be studied to prevent injuries. Measuring ankle joint range of motion (ROM) using radiographs could demonstrate the contribution to motion of each joint. The aim of this study was to analyse and compare ankle joint movements and the ratio of each joint's contribution during movement between dancers and non-dancers, using radiographic images. Dancers have lower dorsiflexion (26.7 +/- 6.2 degrees), higher plantarflexion (74.3 +/- 7.1 degrees) and higher total (101.1 +/- 10.8 degrees) ROMs than non-dancers (33.9 +/- 7.0 degrees, 57.2 +/- 6.8 degrees and 91.1 +/- 9.3 degrees, respectively) (p < 0.05). Although the ROMs were different between the two groups, the ratios of each joint movement were similar between these two groups, in all movements. Regarding total movement, the movement ratio of the talocrural joint was almost 70% and other joints accounted for almost 30% of the movement role in both dancers and non-dancers. Therefore, the differences in ROM between dancers and non-dancers were not a result of a specific joint movement but of all the relevant joints' collaborative movement.		[Cho, Ho-Jung; Kim, Soyeon; Kwak, Dai-Soon] Catholic Univ Korea, Coll Med, Catholic Inst Appl Anat, Dept Anat, Seoul, South Korea; [Jung, Joon-Yong] Catholic Univ Korea, Seoul St Marys Hosp, Dept Radiol, Seoul, South Korea; [Kwak, Dai-Soon] Catholic Univ Korea, Coll Med, Catholic Inst Appl Anat, Dept Anat, Seoul, South Korea								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487274600002	18	Article; Article		
J	Samson, Mathias; Monnet, Tony; Bernard, Anthony; Lacouture, Patrick; David, Laurent								Comparative study between fully tethered and free swimming at different paces of swimming in front crawl								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	6			571	586		10.1080/14763141.2018.1443492			NOV 2 2019	2019	Tethered swimming is a method often used to measure or enhance the physical and technical resources of swimmers. Although it is highlighted that the technique used in tethered swimming is probably different from that used in free conditions, there are few comparative studies on this subject. The current study aims to compare fully tethered and free swimming based on kinematic hand parameters (orientation, velocity and acceleration of the hand, sweepback and angle of attack), which are known to act directly on the generation of propulsive forces. The results show that there are significant differences during the stretch and catch phases but less during the insweep and upsweep phases. Tethered swimming makes it possible to estimate the propelling forces generated by the hand in free swimming at distance and middle-distance paces, but overestimates it at sprint pace. However, in view of the modifications of the kinematic parameters, it should not be used under repeated conditions of use, such as for the development of swimmers' capacity.		[Samson, Mathias; Monnet, Tony; Lacouture, Patrick] Univ Poitiers, P Inst, Lab Biomech, Poitiers, France; [Bernard, Anthony; David, Laurent] Univ Poitiers, P Inst, Lab Hydrodynam, Poitiers, France; [Samson, Mathias] Univ Poitiers, P Inst, Lab Biomech, Poitiers, France								30							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487274600001	25	Article; Article		
J	Fraczek, Barbara; Grzelak, Andrzej; Klimek, Andrzej Tadeusz								Analysis of Daily Energy Expenditure of Elite Athletes in Relation to Their Sport, the Measurement Method and Energy Requirement Norms								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			81	92		10.2478/hukin-2019-0049			NOV 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to estimate the daily energy expenditure (DEE) of 30 Polish elite athletes (15 women and 15 men aged 20 to 34 years) representing aerobic-endurance sports and speed-strength sports and to compare the obtained values with energy requirement norms recommended for athletes. Participants' DEE was measured for seven days using a chronometric-tabular method and a kinematic method. The kinematic method provided significantly lower values of DEE, by 25%. Mean DEEs obtained for female aerobic-endurance and speed-strength athletes were 3042.6 +/- 389 and 3255.7 +/- 359 kcal/24h (a chronometric-tabular method) and 2230.9 +/- 209 and 2346.3 +/- 355 (the kinematic method), respectively. The differences between the two groups were not statistically significant (p > 0.05). Male athletes' mean DEEs were significantly higher (p < 0.05): 3778.0 +/- 657 and 4036.7 +/- 532 kcal/24h (a chronometric-tabular method) for aerobic-endurance athletes and 2983.3 +/- 545 and 2970.4 +/- 345 (the kinematic analysis) for speed-strength athletes. As in the case of female athletes, the differences were not significant (p > 0.05). While no evidence was found that the type of sport alone could cause significant differences in the overall mean DEE between aerobic endurance athletes and speed-strength athletes, athletes' sex significantly differentiated women from men in that respect (the latter's DEE was significantly greater). Such differences were not noted, though, when athletes' relative DEE (adjusted for body mass and body composition) were compared. The study revealed that the actual energy requirements of individual athletes can vary in a wide range and that they can be different from recommended energy intake.		[Fraczek, Barbara] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Inst Biomed Sci, Dept Sports Med & Human Nutr, Krakow, Poland; [Grzelak, Andrzej; Klimek, Andrzej Tadeusz] Univ Phys Educ Krakow, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Inst Biomed Sci, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Krakow, Poland; [Fraczek, Barbara] Univ Sch Phys Educ Cracow, Dept Sports Med & Human Nutr, Al Jana Pawla II 78, PL-31571 Krakow, Poland								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200008	32	Article; Article		
J	Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Praca, Gibson Moreira; Teles Bredt, Sarah da Gloria; van der Linden, Cornelis M., I; Serra-Olivares, Jaime								External Load Variations Between Medium- and Large-Sided Soccer Games: Ball Possession Games vs Regular Games with Small Goals								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			191	198		10.2478/hukin-2019-0031			NOV 2019	2019	This study compared external load variations between 5 vs 5 and 10 vs 10 sided game formats played under two conditions: (i) a ball possession game with two floaters, and (ii) a regular game with goalkeepers and small goals. Twenty-two professional soccer players participated in this study: four central defenders, four wide defenders, nine central midfielders, three wide forwards, and three strikers. Total distance (TD), running distance (RD), sprinting distance (SD), number of sprints (NS), and player's training load (PL) were recorded by GPS units. Within format analyses revealed very likely large increases in TD (20.0%, [9.2; 31.9]; effect size (ES): 1.48, [0.71; 2.25]) and RD (130.9%, [20.2; 343.7]; ES: 1.32, [0.29; 2.35]) during the regular game when compared to the ball possession game in the 5 vs 5 format. In the 10 vs 10 format, large increases in TD (27.9%, [17.7; 39.1]; ES: 3.54, [2.34; 4.74]) and PL (27.4%, [12.6; 44.1]; ES: 2.46, [1.20; 3.72]) were observed in the regular condition when compared to the ball possession condition. Between formats analyses revealed that, in the 10 vs 10 format, when compared to the 5 vs 5 format, RD was very likely larger (123.5%, [33.7; 273.7]), as was SD (195.8%, [20.5; 626.2]). However, very likely large decreases in PL were observed in the 10 vs 10 format (-19.6%; [-29.4; -8.3]) in the ball possession condition. Unclear differences were revealed based on variations in external load variables between formats in the regular condition. Smaller formats reduce the area available for running and sprinting and, thus, may be more adequate for increasing player's training load (based on accelerometer data).		[Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Delegacao Covilha, Inst Telecommun, Covilha, Portugal; [Praca, Gibson Moreira; Teles Bredt, Sarah da Gloria] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [van der Linden, Cornelis M., I] JOHAN Sports, Dept Sport Sci, Hoofddorp, Netherlands; [Serra-Olivares, Jaime] Univ Catolica Temuco, Fac Educ, Pedag Educ Fis, Temuco, Chile; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Complexo Desport & Lazer Melgaco Monte Prado, P-4960320 Melgaco, Portugal								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200019	36	Article; Article		
J	Tota, Lukasz; Pilch, Wanda; Piotrowska, Anna; Maciejczyk, Marcin								The Effects of Conditioning Training on Body Build, Aerobic and Anaerobic Performance in Elite Mixed Martial Arts Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			223	231		10.2478/hukin-2019-0033			NOV 2019	2019	The aim of the study was: 1. to evaluate the effects of conditioning training on body build and physical fitness in elite mixed martial athletes, 2. to investigate the training load structure and assess body build as well as the physiological profile of mixed martial arts athletes. Fifteen MMA male athletes (body mass: 79.8 +/- 3.9 kg; body height: 178.7 +/- 7.9 cm; body fat: 13.4 +/- 1.6%) were involved in the study. The average training experience of athletes equalled 11 +/- 1.1 years. Body composition, upper limb peak anaerobic power and aerobic performance were assessed before and after the preparatory phase. During each evaluation, athletes underwent two stress tests: the Wingate test for the upper limbs (upper limb anaerobic peak power measurement) and the graded exercise test until volitional exhaustion (maximal oxygen uptake measurement and second ventilatory threshold determination). Training means were investigated for the workload type, intensity and exercise metabolism. In the follow-up, body fat mass decreased, while anaerobic peak power and aerobic performance improved. Improvement in the time to obtain and maintain peak power in the upper limbs was noted. Training periodization resulted in advantageous body composition changes and improved physical fitness of the MMA athletes.		[Tota, Lukasz; Maciejczyk, Marcin] Univ Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Krakow, Poland; [Pilch, Wanda; Piotrowska, Anna] Univ Phys Educ, Fac Rehabil, Dept Cosmetol, Krakow, Poland; [Tota, Lukasz] Univ Phys Educ, Dept Physiol & Biochem, Al Jana Pawla II 78, PL-31571 Krakow, Poland								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200022	33	Article; Article		
J	Funai, Yuki; Matsunami, Masaru; Taba, Shoichiro								Physiological Responses and Swimming Technique During Upper Limb Critical Stroke Rate Training in Competitive Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			61	68		10.2478/hukin-2019-0026			NOV 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to examine how arm stroke swimming with critical stroke rate (CSR) control would influence physiological responses and stroke variables in an effort to identify a new swimming training method. Seven well-trained male competitive swimmers (19.9 +/- 1.4 years of age) performed maximal 200 and 400 m front crawl swims to determine the CSR and critical swimming velocity (CV), respectively. Thereafter, they were instructed to perform tests with 4 x 400 m swimming bouts at the CSR and CV. The swimming time (CSR test: 278.96 +/- 2.70 to 280.87 +/- 2.57 s, CV test: 276.17 +/- 3.36 to 277.06 +/- 3.64 s), heart rate, and rated perceived exertion did not differ significantly between tests for all bouts. Blood lactate concentration after the fourth bout was significantly lower in the CSR test than in the CV test (3.16 +/- 1.43 vs. 3.77 +/- 1.52 mmol/l, p < 0.05). The stroke rate and stroke length remained stable across bouts in the CSR test, whereas the stroke rate increased with decreased stroke length across bouts in the CV test (p < 0.05). There were significant differences in the stroke rate (39.27 +/- 1.22 vs. 41.47 +/- 1.22 cycles/min, p < 0.05) and stroke length (2.20 +/- 0.07 vs. 2.10 +/- 0.04 m/stroke, p < 0.05) between the CSR and CV tests in the fourth bout. These results indicate that the CSR could provide the optimal intensity for improving aerobic capacity during arm stroke swimming, and it may also help stabilize stroke technique.		[Funai, Yuki] Kumamoto Gakuen Univ, Fac Social Welf, Dept Life Wellness, Kumamoto, Japan; [Matsunami, Masaru] St Catherine Univ, Fac Human Hlth & Welf Human Serv, Dept Hlth & Sports, Matsuyama, Ehime, Japan; [Taba, Shoichiro] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Fukuoka, Fukuoka, Japan; [Funai, Yuki] Kumamoto Gakuen Univ, Fac Social Welf, Dept Life Wellness, Chuo Ku, 2-5-1 Oe, Kumamoto, Kumamoto 8628680, Japan								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200006	27	Article; Article		
J	Korte, Florian; Lames, Martin								Passing Network Analysis of Positional Attack Formations in Handball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			209	221		10.2478/hukin-2019-0044			NOV 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to characterize handball from a social network analysis perspective by analyzing 22 professional matches from the 2018 European Men's Handball Championship. Social network analysis has proven successful in the study of sports dynamics to investigate the interaction patterns of sport teams and the individual involvement of players. In handball, passing is crucial to establish an optimal position for throwing the ball into the goal of the opponent team. Moreover, different tactical formations are played during a game, often induced by two-minute suspensions or the addition of an offensive player replacing the goalkeeper as allowed by the International Handball Federation since 2016. Therefore, studying the interaction patterns of handball teams considering the different playing positions under various attack formations contributes to the tactical understanding of the sport. Degree and flow centrality as well as density and centralization values were computed. As a result, quantification of the contribution of individual players to the overall organization was achieved alongside the general balance in interplay. We identified the backcourt as the key players to structure interplay across tactical formations. While attack units without a goalkeeper were played longer, they were either more intensively structured around back positions (7 vs. 6) or spread out (5 + 1 vs. 6). We also found significant differences in the involvement of wing players across formations. The additional pivot in the 7 vs. 6 formation was mostly used to create space for back players and was less involved in interplay. Social network analysis turned out as a suitable method to govern and quantify team dynamics in handball.		[Korte, Florian] CDTM, Marsstr 20-22, D-80335 Munich, Germany; [Korte, Florian; Lames, Martin] Tech Univ Munich, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, Munich, Germany; [Korte, Florian] CDTM, Marsstr 20-22, D-80335 Munich, Germany								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200021	32	Article; Article		
J	Beato, Marco; Coratella, Giuseppe; Bianchi, Mattia; Costa, Emanuele; Merlini, Michele								Short-Term Repeated-Sprint Training (Straight Sprint vs. Changes of Direction) in Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			183	190		10.2478/hukin-2019-0040			NOV 2019	2019	Repeated-sprint training (RST) is considered a critical training method in team sports. It is well known that RST effects may depend on several variables such as the duration of the protocol and repeated-sprint methodology. Few studies have evaluated very short-term protocols and compared different RST modalities. The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of 2 week RST including straight sprints or changes of direction (CODs) on physical performance in a sample of soccer players. This study used a randomised pre-post parallel group trial design. The participants were assigned to either an RST group using straight sprints (RST-SS = 18 players) or an RST group using CODs (RST-COD = 18 players). The protocols were: 3 sets of 7 x 30 m sprints for the RST-SS and 7 x 20 + 20 m (one COD of 180 degrees) for the RST-COD, with 20 s and 4 min recovery between sprints and sets, respectively. The following evaluations were performed: 10 and 20 m sprint, agility test, repeated sprint test (RSTbest and RSTmean), and Yo-Yo Recovery Level 1. After the training period, the RST-SS did not report any performance variation, while the RST-COD showed improvements in the 10 m sprint and RSTbest (effect size = 0.70 and 0.65, respectively). The between-group analysis did not report any statistical difference between the RST-SS and the RST-COD. In conclusion, this study did not support the utilisation of a very short-term RST protocol with soccer players, however, the RST-COD presented some additional benefits in sprint performance compared to the RST-SS.		[Beato, Marco; Bianchi, Mattia] Univ Suffolk, Sch Sci Technol & Engn, Ipswich, Suffolk, England; [Coratella, Giuseppe; Costa, Emanuele] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Merlini, Michele] Univ Kent, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Chatham, England; [Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Sch Sci Technol & Engn, Ipswich, Suffolk, England								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200018	36	Article; Article		
J	Ide, Bernardo Neme; Souza-Junior, Tacito P.; McAnulty, Steven R.; de Faria, Mariana A. C.; Costa, Karina A.; Nunes, Lazaro A. S.								Immunological Responses to a Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu High-Intensity Interval Training Session								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			115	124		10.2478/hukin-2019-0051			NOV 2019	2019	The objective of the study was to characterize immunological responses to a Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu high-intensity interval training session. Neuromuscular function, blood, and salivary samples were obtained after a Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu high-intensity interval training session. Saliva and blood samples were collected at Pre- (before the warm-up) and immediately Post-training. Neuromuscular function was evaluated by lower body muscle testing. The horizontal countermovement jump was performed at Pre (after the warm-up) and immediately Post blood and saliva collection, and approximately 5 minutes Post-training. The horizontal countermovement jump performance did not present any significant changes Post-training, while blood leukocytes, urea, IgA and salivary alpha-amylase showed a significant increase. Salivary alpha-amylase activity increased more than six times immediately Post compared to Pre-training. Saliva volume, secretion rate, and uric acid were not significantly different between Pre and Post condition. A Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu high-intensity interval training session elicited an increase in the blood cells responsible for antibody production and muscle damage adaptation after exercise. On the other hand, neuromuscular performance was not significantly affected Post-training, suggesting that immunological and performance responses were not necessarily associated.		[Ide, Bernardo Neme] Metrocamp Coll, Fac Phys Educ, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [de Faria, Mariana A. C.; Costa, Karina A.; Nunes, Lazaro A. S.] Metrocamp Coll, Fac Biomed Sci, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Souza-Junior, Tacito P.] Univ Fed Parana, Dept Phys Educ, Res Grp Metab Nutr & Strength Training, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Souza-Junior, Tacito P.; McAnulty, Steven R.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Ide, Bernardo Neme] UniMetrocamp Coll, Fac Phys Educ, Dr Sales Oliveira 1661, BR-13035270 Campinas, SP, Brazil								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200011	35	Article; Article		
J	Rzepko, Marian; Drozd, Slawomir; Zeglen, Patrycja; Krol, Pawel; Bajorek, Wojciech; Czarny, Wojciech								The Effect of Training Experience on Postural Control in Competitive Wrestlers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			39	45		10.2478/hukin-2019-0048			NOV 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of training experience in wrestling on postural control. Fourteen elite athletes with at least 8 years of wrestling training and competition experience participated in the study. The control group consisted of fifteen healthy adults who were not competitive athletes. The center of pressure (COP) trajectories were recorded with the use of an AMTI force plate at a sampling frequency of 50 Hz. The rambling-trembling decomposition method was used to analyze the COP trajectory data. The main finding was a significant effect of training experience on postural control in only the sagittal plane. Interestingly, significant differences in velocity were observed for the trembling component of the COP. All described variables were significantly higher in wrestlers. We hypothesized that balance training may lead to task-specific neural adaptations at the spinal and supraspinal levels. It was concluded that further research of high methodological quality is needed to determine the effect of training experience on balance control in elite athletes. Additionally, this effect should be observed in youth athletes, as it may be treated as a selection criteria in the training process.		[Rzepko, Marian; Drozd, Slawomir; Zeglen, Patrycja; Krol, Pawel; Bajorek, Wojciech; Czarny, Wojciech] Univ Rzeszow, Fac Phys Educ, 3 Towarnickiego Str, PL-35959 Rzeszow, Poland; [Rzepko, Marian] Univ Rzeszow, Fac Phys Educ, 3 Towarnickiego Str, PL-35959 Rzeszow, Poland								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200004	21	Article; Article		
J	Kohmura, Yoshimitsu; Nakata, Manabu; Kubota, Atsushi; Aoba, Yukihiro; Aoki, Kazuhiro; Murakami, Shigeki								Effects of Batting Practice and Visual Training Focused on Pitch Type and Speed on Batting Ability and Visual Function								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			5	13		10.2478/hukin-2019-0034			NOV 2019	2019	This study aimed to examine the effects of batting practice and visual training focused on the pitch type and speed on batting ability and visual function. A total of 46 participants took part in 12 training sessions for 4 weeks. The participants were divided into six groups according to the training type as follows: Group 1, batting practice with a fastball at 100 km/h; Group 2, tracking (watching) a fastball at 100 km/h; Group 3, batting practice with a fastball at 115 km/h; Group 4, tracking a fastball at 115 km/h; Group 5, batting practice with a curve ball at 100 km/h; and Group 6, tracking a curve ball at 100 km/h. Dynamic visual acuity, depth perception, hand-eye coordination, and batting ability were measured before and after training. Group 1 showed significant improvement in batting ability in the tests with 100 km/h fastballs and curve balls, while Groups 3 and 5 showed significant improvement in batting ability with 100 km/h fastballs and curve balls, respectively. Group 6 also showed significant improvement in batting ability with 100 km/h fastballs. Moreover, Groups 2 and 4 showed significant improvement in Dynamic visual acuity and hand-eye coordination, respectively. The results of the present study suggest that batting practice and visual training improve batting ability for the same pitch types and speeds as those encountered in practice. Therefore, visual training may be an effective method for improving batting ability and visual function in coaching settings.		[Kohmura, Yoshimitsu; Nakata, Manabu; Kubota, Atsushi; Aoki, Kazuhiro; Murakami, Shigeki] Juntendo Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-1 Hiraga Gakuendai, Chiba 2701695, Japan; [Aoba, Yukihiro] Chuo Gakuin Univ, Fac Liberal Arts, Chiba, Japan; [Murakami, Shigeki] Murakami Eye Clin, Kumamoto, Japan; [Kohmura, Yoshimitsu] Juntendo Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Sch Hlth & Sports Sci, 1-1 Hiraga Gakuendai, Chiba 2701695, Japan								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200001	28	Article; Article		
J	Michaelides, Marcos A.; Parpa, Koulla M.; Zacharia, Anthos, I								Assessment of Lower Body and Abdominal Strength in Professional Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			15	23		10.2478/hukin-2019-0035			NOV 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to evaluate abdominal strength in professional soccer players and compare the findings to their lower body strength. An observational design was used to examine abdominal and lower body strength using two functional performance tests (a lower body isokinetic test and an isometric abdominal test, respectively). One hundred and thirty-two professional male soccer players from Cyprus's first and second divisions participated in this study. Testing included three and twenty-five maximal concentric flexion and extension repetitions at angle speeds of 60 degrees/s (degrees/second) and 300 degrees/s, respectively. On a separate occasion, participants completed two trials on an isometric device (ABTEST Gen. 3 system) for evaluation of abdominal strength. At both isokinetic speeds of 300 degrees/s and 60 degrees/s, abdominal strength had low to moderate significant correlations (p < .05) with quadriceps and hamstring strength. Coefficients of determination (R2) demonstrated that the variability in isokinetic variables accounted for only 14-16% of the variability of abdominal strength. Abdominal strength appears to be high in professional soccer players, but is not dependent on the sports level and/or a playing position. The results of this study demonstrate that abdominal strength and knee joint strength need to be evaluated separately.		[Michaelides, Marcos A.; Parpa, Koulla M.; Zacharia, Anthos, I] Univ Cent Lancashire, 12-14 Univ Ave, Pyla, Cyprus; [Michaelides, Marcos A.] Univ Cent Lancashire, 12-14 Univ Ave, Pyla, Cyprus								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200002	29	Article; Article		
J	Sanger, Mark A.; Buns, Matthew T.; Thomas, Katherine Thomas								The Effect of Virtual Training on Speed and Accuracy of Decision Making in Sport								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			261	273		10.2478/hukin-2019-0041			NOV 2019	2019	The concept of expertise is an appealing topic in numerous domains, including sport. Research suggests that the path leading to expertise in sport is significantly influenced by the development of specific components, such as knowledge, skill, and game-performance (Thomas and Thomas, 1994). A relatively new technique in the field of teaching and coaching is the use of video games as a mode of instruction (Swing and Anderson, 2008). The purpose of this study was to address the question of whether video games can improve declarative and procedural sport knowledge. Twenty-seven volunteers were recruited through flyers and word of mouth at a university in a Midwest community. Measurements included an American football knowledge (pre- and post) test, survey of experience, and six football practice sessions using a Microsoft X-box. The project was approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB), Human Subjects Review Committee. Knowledge test scores increased significantly from pre- to post-test [t (26) =-4.997, p = 0.0001]; the improvements were moderate (effect size = 0.66). From practice one to practice six (time) the average speed of decisions improved significantly, but accuracy did not. Knowledge increased regardless of the experience level, but the largest improvements in decision accuracy took place at the lowest experience level. This research supports the idea that video games could be an effective tool to increase sport specific knowledge, particularly in novices.		[Sanger, Mark A.] Iowa State Univ, Ames, IA 50011 USA; [Buns, Matthew T.] Concordia Univ, St Paul 1282 Concordia Ave, St Paul, MN 55104 USA; [Thomas, Katherine Thomas] Georgia Southern Univ, 1332 Southern Dr, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA; [Buns, Matthew T.] Concordia Univ, St Paul 1282 Concordia Ave, St Paul, MN 55104 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200025	27	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio; Gomez-Ruano, Miguel A.; Papadopoulou, Sophia D.								In Search For Volleyball Entertainment: Impact of New Game Rules on Score and Time-Related Variables								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			275	285		10.2478/hukin-2019-0046			NOV 2019	2019	The aim of this research was to analyse the impact of various game structures on score and time-related variables in elite volleyball. A total of 114 male matches and 76 female matches (38 matches for each tournament) were analysed in under-23 world championships. An observational design was implemented to measure match duration, points scored per match and set, set point differences, tournament phase, match balance, and set tendencies in various game structures (set to 21, to 25 or to 15 points) in male and female categories. Standardised differences in mean values showed that a 15-point set game structure led to shortest matches and smallest time variability in match duration, the largest number of points per match, and greatest equality in terms of set score differences in both the male and the female category. The use of various game structures in training may be useful to coaches and conditioning specialists when planning training schemes and sessions, by introducing different game structures to manage volume and intensity in training more effectively. These results may also be useful to local and/or national volleyball federations willing to attract new young players, to promote learning and to render volleyball a fun activity, by implementing S15 at initial stages. In addition, they could be useful to international federations or committees, so as to attract larger audiences and sponsors interested in more appealing matches with high levels of competitiveness and entertainment.		[Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ, Carretera Sacramento S-N, Almeria 04120, Spain; [Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, LFE Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Gomez-Ruano, Miguel A.] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, Madrid, Spain; [Papadopoulou, Sophia D.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Fac Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ, Carretera Sacramento S-N, Almeria 04120, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200026	22	Article; Article		
J	Magiera, Artur; Roczniok, Robert; Sadowska-Krepa, Ewa; Kempa, Katarzyna								Changes in Performance and Morning-Measured Responses in Sport Rock Climbers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			103	114		10.2478/hukin-2019-0050			NOV 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to determine changes in climbers' hormonal, cardiovascular, neuromuscular, sleep and fatigue status, and their relationship with performance and workloads during a sport rock climbing camp. Mean difficulty of individual leading climbing routes (mean Difficulty) was calculated for six male, intermediate level sport rock climbers participating in a 2-week camp in Orpierre. Additionally, each morning climbers were tested for: cortisol (d-Cortisol) and testosterone (d-Testosterone) concentrations, testosterone/cortisol ratio (T/C), heart rate and heart rate variability in supine (d-L-HR, d-L-SD1, d-L-SD2) and standing positions (d-S-HR, d-S-SD1, d-S-SD2), difference in S-HR and L-HR (HR-S-L), maximal voluntary hand grip strength (MVC), sleep duration (Sleep) and the self-perception of fatigue (M-Fatigue). Only M-Fatigue and d-Testosterone did not change significantly during the camp. Changes in other variables were large and significant, especially in the second week of the camp when the mean Difficulty was > 70%. The greatest changes were noted on the last day, when T/C, HR-S-L, and Sleep decreased and d-Cortisol, d-L-HR, and d-SD1 increased. The monitoring of the uncoupling of neuromuscular, hormonal, and cardiovascular markers can be instrumental in determining the level of athletes' morning fatigue and readiness during a climbing camp. An increase in d-Cortisol and a decrease in T/C and HR-S-L are relevant indicators of overreaching in sport climbers.		[Magiera, Artur; Roczniok, Robert; Sadowska-Krepa, Ewa; Kempa, Katarzyna] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Magiera, Artur] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sport Sci, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200010	27	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio; Usero, Laura								Influence of Contextual Variables on Performance of the Libero Player in Top-Level Women's Volleyball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			199	207		10.2478/hukin-2019-0032			NOV 2019	2019	Sports performance changes dynamically according to multiple variables during a match. Contextual variables play an important role in complex situations and influence player's performance depending on the player's role. The aim of this study was to analyze performance of the libero player in terms of contextual variables in top-level women's volleyball. The sample comprised 1,597 actions performed by libero players in 49 sets (13 matches) played in the Spanish Queen's Cups from 2015 to 2017. The variables analyzed were: the game phase, the match period, the set period, match status, the type of the match, and action performance. The results revealed higher participation in the reception and digging, and top performance in reception and setting. The participation of the libero player decreased at the end of the match and the set as well as in advantage score situations, while performance got worse at the end of the set (especially in digs, p < .05) and improved in score advantage situations (especially in receptions, p < .05). Performance remained stable regardless of the type of the match (p > .05). These results may be useful to coaches in order to plan and design specific tasks coherent with libero competition demands and performance values.		[Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ, Carretera Sacramento S-N, Almeria 04120, Spain; [Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, LFE Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Usero, Laura] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio] Univ Almeria, Fac Educ, Carretera Sacramento S-N, Almeria 04120, Spain								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200020	22	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe; Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Latorre-Roman, Pedro A.; Roche-Seruendo, Luis E.								How Do Spatiotemporal Parameters and Lower-Body Stiffness Change with Increased Running Velocity? A Comparison Between Novice and Elite Level Runners								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			25	38		10.2478/hukin-2019-0036			NOV 2019	2019	This study aimed to examine the effect of running velocity on spatiotemporal parameters and lower-body stiffness of endurance runners, and the influence of the performance level on those adaptations. Twenty-two male runners (novice [NR], n = 12, and elite runners [ER], n = 10) performed an incremental running test with a total of 5 different running velocities (10, 12, 14, 16, 18 km/h). Each condition lasted 1 min (30 s acclimatization period, and 30 s recording period). Spatiotemporal parameters were measured using the OptoGait system. Vertical (Kvert) and leg (Kleg) stiffness were calculated according to the sine-wave method. A repeated measures ANOVA (2 x 5, group x velocities) revealed significant adaptations (p < 0.05) to increased velocity in all spatiotemporal parameters and Kvert in both NR and ER. ER showed a greater flight time (FT) and step angle (at 18 km/h) (p < 0.05), longer step length (SL) and lower step frequency (SF) (p < 0.05), whereas no between-group differences were found in contact time (CT) nor in the sub-phases during CT at any speed (p >= 0.05). ER also showed lower Kvert values at every running velocity (p < 0.05), and no differences in Kleg (p >= 0.05). In conclusion, lower SF and Kvert and, thereby, longer FT and SL, seem to be the main spatiotemporal characteristics of high-level runners compared to their low-level counterparts.		[Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ La Frontera, Dept Phys Educ Sports & Recreat, Calle Uruguay 1980, Temuco, Chile; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Educ, Concepcion, Chile; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Dept Phys Act Sci Res Nucleus Hlth Phys Act & Spo, Osorno, Chile; [Latorre-Roman, Pedro A.] Univ Jaen, Dept Corporal Express, Campus Las Lagunillas S-N D2 Bldg,Dep 142, Jaen 23071, Spain; [Roche-Seruendo, Luis E.] Univ San Jorge, Campus Univ,A23 Km 299, Zaragoza 50830, Spain; [Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ La Frontera, Dept Phys Educ Sports & Recreat, Calle Uruguay 1980, Temuco, Chile								37							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200003	41	Article; Article		
J	Riemann, Bryan L.; Hipko, Nick; Johnson, Wayne; Murphy, Thomas; Davies, George J.								Effects of medicine ball mass on the intensity of 90°/90° plyometric throwing exercise								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				238	243		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.10.002			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: To quantify the effects of medicine ball mass (1 kg, 1.5 kg, 2 kg) on the intensity of 90 degrees/90 degrees plyometric throwing exercise. Study design: Controlled laboratory study. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Fifteen physically active collegiate aged men. Main outcome measures: Kinematics of the upper extremity were collected during completion of eight to ten repetitions of 90 degrees/90 degrees plyometric throwing exercise with three different mass medicine balls. Four parameters, medicine ball release and contact momentum, time-to-rebound, and contact time, were computed for each selected repetition and used for statistical analysis. Results: Ball mass did not significantly influence time-to-rebound (P =.718) and had a small (less than 0.05s) effect on ball contact time (P =.039). Ball release momentum was significantly greater (P <.001, 67 -123% greater) than ball contact momentum. Medicine ball mass significantly increased both ball release (34-35%) and ball contact (45-67%) momentum however the effect was significantly greater for ball release momentum (P =.005). Conclusions: These results document the effects of increasing medicine ball mass during 90 degrees/90 degrees plyometric throwing exercise and provide evidence for designing upper extremity plyometric training programs. Based on ball contact momentum being less than ball release momentum, as well as ball mass having greater influence on ball release velocity, we suggest that 90 degrees/90 degrees plyometric throwing exercise is a safe exercise. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Riemann, Bryan L.; Hipko, Nick; Johnson, Wayne; Murphy, Thomas; Davies, George J.] Georgia Southern Univ Armstrong Campus, Biodynam & Human Performance Ctr, 11935 Abercorn St, Savannah, GA 31419 USA; [Riemann, Bryan L.] Georgia Southern Univ Armstrong Campus, Biodynam & Human Performance Ctr, 11935 Abercorn St, Savannah, GA 31419 USA								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100032	28	Article; Article		
J	Langhout, Rob R. F. H.; Tak, Igor J. R.								Including performance level lowers prevalence of non-timeloss groin injury. A cross-sectional study in 383 female amateur football players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				225	230		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.013			NOV 2019	2019	Objective: To study the preseason prevalence of groin injury with normal and reduced performance. Design: Cross-sectional cohort. Settings: Online survey. Participants: 383 Dutch female amateur football players (35 teams). Main outcome measures: Prevalence of groin injury per injury group (timeloss or non-timeloss) using a general questionnaire and per performance group (groin pain with normal or reduced performance) using subscales Pain and Participation in Physical Activities of the Hip And Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS). Levels and between-group differences of groin-related symptoms and problems (HAGOS) for injury and performance groups. The injury groups from which players with groin pain and normal performance originate. Results: Prevalence of non-timeloss groin injury was 22% (95% confidence interval (95%CI) = 18-26) (n = 84), 7% (95%CI = 5-10) (n = 26) for timeloss groin injury, 21% (95%CI = 17-25) (n = 80) for pain + normal performance and 16% (95%CI = 12-20) (n = 61) for pain + reduced performance. HAGOS-scores differed between injury (P < .022) and performance groups (p < .043). Twenty-three players (27%) with pain + normal performance originated from the non-timeloss groin injury group (100%). Conclusion: As female amateur football players with groin pain and normal performance are considered non-injured, the prevalence of non-timeloss groin injury lowers by a quarter. These players have lower HAGOS scores than non-injured players without pain yet higher scores than those with non-timeloss groin injury. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Langhout, Rob R. F. H.] Physiotherapy Dukenburg Nijmegen, Dept Manual Therapy & Sports Rehabil, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Langhout, Rob R. F. H.; Tak, Igor J. R.] ACHSS, AMC VUmc IOC Res Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Langhout, Rob R. F. H.; Tak, Igor J. R.] Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Tak, Igor J. R.] Physiotherapy Utrecht Oost, Dept Manual Therapy & Sports Rehabil, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Langhout, Rob R. F. H.] Physiotherapy Dukenburg Nijmegen, Aldenhof 7003, NL-6537 DZ Nijmegen, Netherlands								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100030	21	Article; Article		
J	Hams, Andrea; Evans, Kerrie; Adams, Roger; Waddington, Gordon; Witchalls, Jeremy								Reduced shoulder strength and change in range of motion are risk factors for shoulder injury in water polo players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				231	237		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.10.003			NOV 2019	2019	Objective: To determine whether pre-season shoulder ROM and strength can be used to identify athletes at risk of future shoulder injury. Design: Prospective cohort. Setting: High performance sports institute. Participants: 76 sub-elite water polo players. Main outcome measures: Mean pre-season shoulder internal (IR) and external rotation (ER) ROM and strength values compared by gender, dominance and prospective injury status. Results: 14-dominant shoulder injuries were recorded. There was a significant difference (p = 0.05) in total ROM difference (TROM) between the prospectively injured and no injury groups (-17.2 degrees(30.4);-0.8 degrees(13.3)), and dominant side ER strength (11.7%(2.4) vs 14.5%(2.8), p= 0.03) and IR strength (16.5%(3.0) vs 21.6%(4.9) as a percentage body weight (PBW) were also significantly different (p <= 0.03). Separate significant associations were found between future episodes of shoulder injury and; dominant shoulder TROM difference of >= 7.5 degrees(OR 3.6,95%CI 0.8-16.0), ER strength as a PBW <= 12.5%(OR 5.2,95%CI 1.0-27.9), and IR strength as a PBW <= 16.8%(OR 13.8,95%CI 2.2-88.0). Conclusion: Pre-season dominant TROM difference, and reduced shoulder IR and ER strength relative to body weight were significant predictors for future shoulder injury. Although further investigation with a larger sample size is required, achieving optimal values on these measures may reduce future episodes of shoulder injury in water polo players. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hams, Andrea; Adams, Roger; Waddington, Gordon; Witchalls, Jeremy] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Hams, Andrea] Queensland Acad Sport, Sport Performance Innovat & Knowledge Excellence, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Evans, Kerrie] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Hams, Andrea; Evans, Kerrie] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Evans, Kerrie] Healthia Ltd, Bowen Hills, Australia; [Hams, Andrea] Griffith Univ, POB 36, Gold Coast, Qld 4222, Australia								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100031	42	Article; Article		
J	Conti, Cristiana; di Fronso, Selenia; Robazza, Claudio; Bertollo, Maurizio								The Injury-Psychological Readiness to return to sport (I-PRRS) scale and the Sport Confidence Inventory (SCI): A cross-cultural validation								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				218	224		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.10.001			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: The purpose of this study was to cross-culturally validate in the Italian language the I-PRRS and the SCI. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Injured Italian athletes. Participants: We recruited male (n = 73) and female (n = 27) athletes who returned to practice after having completed the rehabilitation. Main outcome measures: The measures comprised the I-PRRS, the SCI, and the Italian Mood Scale (ITAMS). Athletes completed the questionnaires within 1 day before their first official competition following injury. We investigated the construct validity, the internal consistency, and the concurrent validity of the I-PRRS and SCI with the ITAMS. Results: Confirmatory Factor Analysis supported the two-factor structure of the I-PRRS (Confidence in performance capability and Confidence in recovery) and the three-factor structure of the SCI (SC-Physical Skills and Training, SC-Cognitive Efficiency, and SC-Resilience). The reliability scores of both I-PRRS and SCI subscales indicated good internal consistency. Correlation between the I-PRRS and the SCI ranged in magnitude from weak to moderately high. A similar trend of correlations was found between the subscales of the I-PRRS and the ITAMS, as well as between the subscales of the SCI and the ITAMS. Conclusions: Study findings showed satisfactory psychometric properties of the Italian version of the I-PRRS and SCI. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Conti, Cristiana; di Fronso, Selenia; Robazza, Claudio; Bertollo, Maurizio] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, BIND Behav Imaging & Neural Dynam Ctr, Via Vestini 33, I-66100 Chieti, Italy; [Bertollo, Maurizio] Univ Suffolk, Sch Sci Technol & Engn, Ipswich, Suffolk, England; [Bertollo, Maurizio] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, BIND Behav Imaging & Neural Dynam Ctr, Via Vestini 33, I-66100 Chieti, Italy								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100029	53	Article; Article		
J	Romero-Morales, Carlos; Javier Martin-Llantino, Pedro; Calvo-Lobo, Cesar; Almazan-Polo, Jaime; Lopez-Lopez, Daniel; de la Cruz-Torres, Blanca; Palomo-Lopez, Patricia; Rodriguez-Sanz, David								Intrinsic foot muscles morphological modifications in patients with Achilles tendinopathy: A novel case-control research study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				208	212		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.014			NOV 2019	2019	Objective: To compare the thickness and cross-sectional area (CSA) of the Abductor Hallucis Brevis (AHB), Flexor Digitorum Brevis (FDB) and Flexor Hallucis Brevis (FHB) in subjects with and without chronic mid-portion Achilles tendinopathy (AT). Design: A case-control research study. Setting: A private clinic. Participants: A total sample of 143 subjects was recruited for the study and divided in two groups, such as chronic mid-portion AT group (n = 71) and healthy group (n = 72). Main outcome measures: Ultrasound B-Mode imaging was used to measure the thickness and CSA of the AHB, FDB and FHB in subjects with and without chronic mid-portion AT at rest. Results: USI measurements of the AHB (p <.001) and FDB (p <.001) thicknesses, as well as FDB (p = .005) and FHB CSA (p = .048), were increased for the tendinopathy group with respect to healthy group. However, FHB muscle thickness (p <.001) increases were showed for the control group with respect the tendinopathy group. Conclusions: USI measurements of ABH and FDB thicknesses, as well as FDB and FHB CSA, were increased in patients who suffered from AT with respect to healthy group. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Romero-Morales, Carlos; Javier Martin-Llantino, Pedro; Almazan-Polo, Jaime] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Fac Nursing & Podiatry, Dept Hlth Sci, Res Hlth & Podiatry Unit, Ferrol, Spain; [Calvo-Lobo, Cesar; Rodriguez-Sanz, David] Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Enfermeria Fisioterapia & Podol, Madrid, Spain; [de la Cruz-Torres, Blanca] Univ Seville, Dept Physiotherapy, Avicena St, Seville, Spain; [Palomo-Lopez, Patricia] Univ Extremadura, Univ Ctr Plasencia, Dept Nursing, Badajoz, Spain; [Romero-Morales, Carlos] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Physiotherapy Dept, C Tajo S-N, Madrid 28670, Spain								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100027	26	Article; Article		
J	Burland, Julie P.; Lepley, Adam S.; DiStefano, Lindsay J.; Lepley, Lindsey K.								Alterations in physical and neurocognitive wellness across recovery after ACLR: A preliminary look into learned helplessness								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				197	207		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.009			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: Neural alterations after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) may initiate a maladaptive neurocognitive response (learned helplessness [LH]). Understanding the interrelationships between neural inhibition, quadriceps function and psychological responses can provide clinicians areas to target during recovery. The purpose was to longitudinally evaluate neural excitability, strength and self-reported LH after ACL injury and to explore the relationship between these measures and knee mechanics and patient reported function. Design: Case-series. Setting: University. Participants: Eight patients were evaluated across recovery after ACL injury. Main outcome measures: Neural activity, quadriceps function, and self-reported LH were evaluated at pre-surgery, 3-months post-ACLR and at the time of return to play (RTP). Results: Patients presented with higher helplessness between 3-months and RTP. Neural excitability and quadriceps function were variable and associated with various aspects of LH. These findings indicate a systemic inability to generate appropriate neural signaling to the quadriceps and highlights how these changes may influence perceived helplessness and overall function after ACLR. Conclusions: LH is related to both measures of physical function and neural outcomes and varies across recovery. This may provide clinicians with a feasible clinical tool that has the potential to identify a variety of impairments arising after ACLR. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Burland, Julie P.; DiStefano, Lindsay J.] Univ Connecticut, 2095 Hillside Rd,U-1110, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Lepley, Adam S.; Lepley, Lindsey K.] Univ Michigan, 401 Washtenaw Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Burland, Julie P.] Harvard Med Sch, Brigham & Womens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 1575 Cambridge St, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA; [Burland, Julie P.] Harvard Med Sch, Brigham & Womens Hosp, Spaulding Natl Running Ctr, 1575 Cambridge St, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA; [Lepley, Lindsey K.] Univ Michigan, 3745B CCRB,401 Washtenaw Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100026	56	Article; Article		
J	Halvarsson, Bodil; von Rosen, Philip								Could a specific exercise programme prevent injury in elite orienteerers? A randomised controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				177	183		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.010			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: To determine the effect of a specific exercise programme on preventing lower extremity injury in adult elite orienteerers. Design: Randomised controlled trial. Setting: Elite orienteering. Participants: Sixty-two orienteerers (n = 32/30, male/female) were randomized and followed over 14 weeks. The intervention group completed an exercise programme 4 times per week. Main outcome measures: Number of substantial injuries, average substantial injury prevalence and incidence of ankle sprains over the competitive season. In per-protocol analyses, compliance rate to exercise programme was considered. Results: No significant differences between control and intervention group were found for substantial injured orienteerers (OR 0.50, 95% CI 0.19-1.34), number of substantial injuries (OR 0.46, 95% CI 0.18 -1.13) and incidence of ankle sprains (p = 0.775). In per-protocol analyses, significant differences in substantial injured orienteerers (difference -7.9%, OR 0.25, 95% CI 0.06-0.97) and number of substantial injuries (difference -8.5%, OR 0.26, 95% CI 0.07-0.92) in favour for the orienteers completing the exercises at least twice a week, compared to the control group, were found. Conclusions: An exercise programme, consisting of balance and jump exercises, is suggested to be performed at least twice per week in order to reduce the risk of lower extremity injury in elite orienteerers. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Halvarsson, Bodil; von Rosen, Philip] Karolinska Inst, Dept Neurobiol Care Sci & Soc, Div Physiotherapy, Alfred Nobels Alle 23, SE-14183 Huddinge, Sweden; [von Rosen, Philip] Karolinska Inst, Dept Neurobiol Care Sci & Soc, Div Physiotherapy, Alfred Nobels Alle 23, SE-14183 Huddinge, Sweden								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100023	38	Article; Article		
J	Werner, D. M.; Di Stasi, S.; Lewis, C. L.; Barrios, J. A.								Test-retest reliability and minimum detectable change for various frontal plane projection angles during dynamic tasks								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				169	176		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.011			NOV 2019	2019	Objective: Establish between-day test-retest reliability metrics for 2-dimensional frontal plane projection angles (FPPAs) during the lateral step-down (LSD), single-limb squat (SLS), single-limb landing (SLL), and drop vertical jump (DVJ). Design: Test-retest reliability study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: 20 healthy adults (12 female, age = 23.60 +/- 1.93 years old, body mass index = 24.26 +/- 2.54 kg/m(2)) were tested on 2 separate occasions 7-14 days apart. Main outcome measures: Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC), standard errors of the measurement (SEM), and minimal detectable change (MDC) values across the LSD, SLS, SLL, and DVJ for the following body region variables: trunk, trunk on pelvis, pelvis, hip, thigh to vertical, knee, and shank to vertical. Results: There was moderate-to-substantial between-day test-retest reliability for nearly all body regions across all tasks (ICC = 0.65-0.96). SEM values varied across body regions and tasks (0.9-3.5 degrees). MDCs were variable (2.3-9.8 degrees). Of the body regions, MDCs were largest for the knee and hip. By task, MDCs were lowest for the LSD. Conclusions: This study identified between-day test-retest reliability metrics for 2-dimensional FPPAs across a variety of body regions during commonly assessed clinical tasks. These data allow clinicians and researchers to more confidently assess true change between assessments or over time. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Werner, D. M.; Barrios, J. A.] Univ Dayton, Dept Phys Therapy, 300 Coll Pk, Dayton, OH 45469 USA; [Di Stasi, S.] Ohio State Univ, Div Phys Therapy, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, 453 W 10th Ave,Atwell Hall, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Di Stasi, S.] Ohio State Univ, Wexner Med Ctr, Sports Med Res Inst, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Lewis, C. L.] Boston Univ, Phys Therapy Rehabil Sci & Med, 635 Commonwealth Ave, Boston, MA 02215 USA; [Werner, D. M.] Univ Dayton, Dept Phys Therapy, 300 Coll Pk, Dayton, OH 45469 USA								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100022	38	Article; Article		
J	Blackburn, Marielle; Kaplan, Sandra L.								Are priorities of younger patients with knee pain addressed by PROMs? A qualitative study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				160	168		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.005			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: To describe the impact of knee pain and dysfunction in young adults and determine whether current patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) address their recovery priorities. Design: Qualitative. Setting: Outpatient rehabilitation center. Participants: Young adults, 23-30 years. Main outcome measures: 1:1 semi-structured interviews were held and analyzed with NVivo version 11. The Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS), Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS), and International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC) were compared to participant identified functional limitations. Results: 9 themes were identified in 7 interviews: Incomplete Recovery as Acceptable, Motivation for Adequate Long Term Function, Guidance Needed to Facilitate Recovery, Sports: To Play or Not to Play, Pain, Therapy Participation and Interventions, Impact on Life, Decreased Knowledge and Condition Management, and A Wide Range of Functional Limitations. The LEFS captured 23/26 identified functional activities, the KOOS 22/26, the IKDC 16/26, and the WOMAC 13/26. Conclusions: Incomplete recovery as an acceptable outcome was the most unique theme found in this study. LEFS captured the most relevant functional activities reported by this group. Physical Therapists should consider these findings in PROM selection to better inform meaningful outcome measurement. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Blackburn, Marielle] Burke Rehabil Hosp, White Plains, NY USA; [Blackburn, Marielle; Kaplan, Sandra L.] Rutgers Univ State Univ New Jersey, Sch Hlth Profess, Newark, NJ USA; [Blackburn, Marielle] 785 Mamaroneck Ave, White Plains, NY 10605 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100021	50	Article; Article		
J	Wikstrom, Erik A.; Song, Kyeongtak								Generic and psychological patient-reported deficits in those with chronic ankle instability: A cross sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				137	142		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.004			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: To quantify differences in generic and psychological patient-reported outcomes (PROs) between those with CAI and uninjured controls. To determine associations between generic and psychological PROs, in those with CAI, to regional PROs and injury history characteristics. Design: Cross-sectional, descriptive. Setting: Sport Medicine Research Laboratory. Participants: Included 45 individuals with CAI and 45 uninjured controls. CAI was defined based on the recommendations of the International Ankle Consortium. Main outcome measures: Two regional PROs (e.g. Foot and Ankle Ability Measure), and several generic and psychological PROs (e.g. SF-36, select PROMIS short forms, Fear Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire). Results: Those with CAI had worse scores, relative to controls, in PROs related to regional function, generic physical function, pain, ability to participate in social roles and activities, and injury related fear. The number of giving way episodes, CAI severity, and regional PROs associated with generic physical function scales as well as a pain scale. Conclusions: Select generic physical function and psychological scales can detect differences between those with and without CAI. Specific injury history characteristics and regional PROs associate with generic and psychological PROs. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Wikstrom, Erik A.; Song, Kyeongtak] Univ N Carolina, MOTION Sci Inst, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Wikstrom, Erik A.] Univ N Carolina, 311 Woollen Gymnasium CB 8700, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100018	40	Article; Article		
J	Clark, Nicholas C.; Reilly, Lee J.; Davies, Stephanie C.								Intra-rater reliability, measurement precision, and inter-test correlations of 1RM single-leg leg-press, knee-flexion, and knee-extension in uninjured adult agility-sport athletes: Considerations for right and left unilateral measurements in knee injury control								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				128	136		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.003			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: Knowledge of single-leg knee strength test reliability for the right and left limb is critical for between-limb clinical decision-making. Knowledge of between-test correlations is essential for understanding whether tests measure similar or different aspects of muscle strength. This study investigated the intra-rater, test-retest reliability and measurement precision of one repetition maximum (1RM) single-leg leg-press (LP), knee-flexion (KF), and knee-extension (KE) for both limbs, and inter-test correlations. Design: Repeated measures; Setting: University. Participants: Six males, seven females (age 25.6 +/- 5.5 yr; height 171.4 +/- 8.4 cm; mass 71.8 +/- 13.4 kg). Main outcome measures: Normalised 1RM (percent body-mass (%BM)), intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) (2,1), standard error of measurement (SEM; %BM), Pearson's correlation (r), coefficient of determination (r(2)). Results: Mean 1RM test-retest values were (right, left): LP, 214.2-218.5%BM, 213.5-215.4%BM; KF, 35.9 -38.9%BM, 37.7-38.2%BM; KE, 43.3-44.6%BM, 36.2-39.3%BM. The ICCs/SEMs were (right, left): LP, 0.98/7.3%BM, 0.94/14.2%BM; KF, 0.75/4.9%BM, 0.95/1.9%BM; KE, 0.87/3.4%BM, 0.78/4.4%BM. Correlations were significant (P < 0.01), r/r(2) values were: LP-KF, 0.60/0.36; LP-KE, 0.59/0.35; KF-KE, 0.50/0.25. Conclusions: Tests demonstrated good reliability and measurement precision, although ICCs and SEMs were different between limbs. Tests were correlated, but only one-third of the variance was shared between tests. Practitioners should be cognisant of between-limb differences in reliability and include all tests for knee clinical decision-making. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England; [Reilly, Lee J.; Davies, Stephanie C.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Waldegrave Rd, Twickenham TW1 4SX, England; [Clark, Nicholas C.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Wivenhoe Pk, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100017	48	Article; Article		
J	Kang, Fu-Jie; Chiu, Yuan-Chun; Wu, Shu-Chi; Wang, Tyng-Guey; Yang, Jing-lan; Lin, Jiu-Jenq								Kinesiology taping with exercise does not provide additional improvement in round shoulder subjects with impingement syndrome: A single-blinded randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				99	106		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.09.001			NOV 2019	2019	Objective: Round shoulder posture (RSP) may exaggerate symptoms of subacromial impingement. The effects of kinesiology taping with exercise on posture, pain, and functional performance were investigated in subjects with impingement and RSP. Design: This study was a single-blinded randomized controlled trial. Setting: An outpatient rehabilitation clinic in a university hospital. Participants: Thirty-four subjects with subacromial impingement and RSP. Interventions: Kinesiology taping with and without tension was applied 2 times per week for 4 weeks. Both groups also performed strengthening and stretching exercises 3 times per week for 4 weeks. Main outcome measurements: The pain level, shoulder angle and self-reported score were evaluated at pre-intervention, 2-week post-intervention and 4-week post-intervention time points. Results: Functional performance improved after intervention in both groups (p = 0.027). A greater decrease in pain level was related to better functional performance of the shoulder in both groups (r = -0.760 and -0.674; p <0.010). Moderate correlations were found for posture and functional performance of the shoulder in the intervention group (0.48). Conclusion: Four weeks of strengthening and stretching exercises with or without kinesiology taping improved functional performance in subjects with impingement and RSP. Improvement in clinical symptoms was related to better performance of posture. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kang, Fu-Jie; Chiu, Yuan-Chun; Wu, Shu-Chi; Lin, Jiu-Jenq] Natl Taiwan Univ, Coll Med, Sch & Grad Inst Phys Therapy, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wang, Tyng-Guey; Yang, Jing-lan; Lin, Jiu-Jenq] Natl Taiwan Univ Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Div Phys Therapy, 1 Changde St, Taipei 100, Taiwan; [Lin, Jiu-Jenq] Natl Taiwan Univ, Coll Med, Sch & Grad Inst Phys Therapy, Taipei, Taiwan; [Yang, Jing-lan] Natl Taiwan Univ Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Div Phys Therapy, 1 Changde St, Taipei 100, Taiwan								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100014	42	Article; Article		
J	Sancho, Igor; Morrissey, Dylan; Willy, Richard W.; Barton, Christian; Malliaras, Peter								Education and exercise supplemented by a pain-guided hopping intervention for male recreational runners with midportion Achilles tendinopathy: A single cohort feasibility study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				107	116		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.08.007			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: To examine the feasibility of recommended education and exercise supplemented by a hopping intervention implemented based on self-reported pain over 12 weeks for recreational runners with Achilles tendinopathy. Design: Single cohort feasibility study. Setting: One private physiotherapy clinic in Melbourne, Australia. Participants: Fifteen male recreational runners with midportion Achilles tendinopathy. Main outcome measures: Recruitment and adherence measures, adverse events, intervention acceptability and treatment effect trends were measured at baseline, 4 and 12 weeks. Results: Recruitment (100%), retention (87%) and follow-up (93%) rates were high. Exercise adherence was 70% (SD = 12.7) but fidelity was 50% (SD = 13.9). Three participants suffered adverse events (undertaking activities contrary to advice). Participants reported the education package, perceived benefit, and feedback frequency as intervention enablers; while the onerous time commitment was regarded a barrier. At 12 weeks, five participants were satisfied and eight very satisfied, while VISA-A had improved 24 +/- 20.65 points (mu 2 = 0.740). Conclusions: A randomised control trial including recommended education and exercise with a pain-guided hopping intervention as treatment for recreational runners with midportion Achilles tendinopathy may be warranted, once strategies to improve adherence and reduce adverse events are addressed. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Sancho, Igor; Morrissey, Dylan; Barton, Christian; Malliaras, Peter] Queen Mary Univ London, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England; [Morrissey, Dylan] Barts Hlth NHS Trust, Physiotherapy Dept, London, England; [Willy, Richard W.] Univ Montana, Sch Phys Therapy & Rehabil Sci, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Barton, Christian] La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Coll Sci Hlth & Engn, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian] Univ Melbourne, St Vincents Hosp, Dept Surg, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, Frankston, Vic, Australia; [Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Bldg B,Peninsula Campus, Frankston, Vic 3199, Australia								34							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100015	61	Article; Article		
J	Goetschius, John; Hertel, Jay; Saliba, Susan; Brockmeier, Stephen F.; Hart, Joseph M.								The effects of patellar tendon vibration on quadriceps strength in anterior cruciate ligament reconstructed knees								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				71	77		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.08.014			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: To examine the immediate effects of prolonged patellar tendon vibration on quadriceps strength in anterior cruciate ligament reconstructed (ACLR) knees with bone-patellar tendon-bone (BTB) grafts and non-BTB grafts, and healthy control knees. Design: Pretest-posttest design. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Young adult participants were stratified into one of three groups: non-BTB graft (n = 25), BTB graft (n = 26), and controls without ACLR (n = 21). Main outcome measures: Maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) knee extension torque was measured at baseline and following a 20-min vibration intervention applied locally to the patellar tendon. Results: Our findings suggest there was no difference in the effects of vibration on knee extension torque between the three groups. Knee extension torque significantly increased (effect size = 0.52 [0.18 to 0.811) from baseline to post-vibration across all three groups (0.30 +/- 0.26 Nm/kg, 21.8 +/- 20.0%). Both ACLR groups demonstrated significantly lower knee extension torque compared the control group. Conclusions: The vibration intervention had a net excitatory effect on quadriceps strength in all three groups and there were no differences in the magnitude of change between the three groups. Vibration could become a useful tool for enhancing quadriceps strength in ACLR and healthy knees. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Goetschius, John] Adrian Coll, Adrian, MI USA; [Hertel, Jay; Saliba, Susan; Brockmeier, Stephen F.; Hart, Joseph M.] Univ Virginia, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Goetschius, John] 110 S Madison St, Adrian, MI 49221 USA								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100010	39	Article; Article		
J	Welbeck, A. N.; Amilo, N. R.; Le, D. T.; Killelea, C. M.; Kirsch, A. N.; Zarzour, R. H.; Burgi, C. R.; Sell, T. C.; Faherty, M. S.								Examining the link between thoracic rotation and scapular dyskinesis and shoulder pain amongst college swimmers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				78	84		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.08.013			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: In National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I swimmers, we examined the differences in thoracic spine rotation in swimmers with and without scapular dyskinesis and the relationship between thoracic spine rotation and shoulder pain/dysfunction according to the Kerlan-Jobe Orthopaedic Clinic (KJOC) score. Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory-based. Participants: 34 NCAA Division I swimmers (13 males, 21 females). Main outcome measures: Self-reported upper extremity function and pain assessed with the KJOC questionnaire, thoracic spine range of motion, presence of scapular dyskinesis. Results: Dyskinesis was present in 15 of 34 (44%) subjects. Thoracic rotation averaged 136.7 degrees and KJOC averaged 87.7 with no differences between swimmers with or without dyskinesis. We observed no correlation between KJOC-identified shoulder pain/dysfunction and thoracic rotation. Conclusions: In our cohort of NCAA Division 1 swimmers, no differences were found between swimmers with or without scapular dyskinesis and extent of thoracic rotation. We found no correlation between thoracic rotation and the amount of self-reported pain and dysfunction experienced in the upper extremity. The presence of scapular dyskinesis in nearly half of our subjects indicates that swimmers need to be assessed for this abnormality. If observed, rehabilitation should address the dyskinesis and improve thoracic rotation in an attempt to alleviate further upper extremity pain and dysfunction. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Welbeck, A. N.; Amilo, N. R.; Le, D. T.; Killelea, C. M.; Sell, T. C.; Faherty, M. S.] Duke Univ Hlth Syst, James R Urbaniak Sports Sci Inst, Michael W Krzyzewski Human Performance Lab, Durham, NC USA; [Kirsch, A. N.; Zarzour, R. H.; Burgi, C. R.] Athlet Med Duke Univ, Durham, NC USA; [Welbeck, A. N.] 3475 Erwin Rd, Durham, NC 27705 USA								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100011	51	Article; Article		
J	Nunes, Guilherme S.; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Crossley, Kay M.; Serrao, Fabio Viadanna; Pizzari, Tania; Barton, Christian J.								People with patellofemoral pain have impaired functional performance, that is correlated to hip muscle capacity								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				85	90		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.08.010			NOV 2019	2019	Objective: To (i) compare objective function in a range of tasks between people with and without patellofemoral pain (PFP): and (ii) evaluate the relationship of objective function with hip muscle capacity and self-reported function in people with PFP. Design: Cross-sectional. Settings: Laboratory. Participants: Thirty-two physically active people (16 with PFP and 16 controls). Main outcome measures: Functional assessments included stair climbing (time), single-legged chair stand (repetitions), step down (repetitions), forward hop for distance and side hop (repetitions). Hip abductor and extensor capacity assessments included power, endurance, isometric and dynamic strength. Self-reported function included the Kujala scale and Patellofemoral sub-scale of the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS-PF). Results: The PFP group was 15% slower climbing stairs (effect size [ES] = 0.90), performed 12% fewer chair stands (ES = 0.62) and forward hopped 20% shorter (ES = 0.79) compared to controls. Lower hip muscle strength and power correlated with lower objective function (r = 0.52-0.78). Lower Kujala scores correlated with longer stair climbing time (r = -0.53). Conclusion: People with PFP have objective functional impairments, that are associated with reduced hip muscle capacity, indicating progressive resistance training may be beneficial. Absence of a strong correlation between self-reported, and objective, function indicates assessment of both when treating people with PFP is warranted. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Nunes, Guilherme S.; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Crossley, Kay M.; Pizzari, Tania; Barton, Christian J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Nunes, Guilherme S.; Serrao, Fabio Viadanna] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Physiotherapy, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Silva, Danilo de Oliveira] Univ Sao Paulo State, Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Physiotherapy, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Barton, Christian J.] Univ Melbourne, St Vincents Hosp, Dept Surg, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian J.] La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								28							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100012	37	Article; Article		
J	Yeomans, Caithriona; Comyns, Thomas M.; Cahalan, Roisin; Hayes, Kevin; Costello, Victoria; Warrington, Giles D.; Harrison, Andrew J.; Lyons, Mark; Campbell, Mark J.; Glynn, Liam G.; Kenny, Ian C.								The relationship between physical and wellness measures and injury in amateur rugby union players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				59	65		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.08.012			NOV 2019	2019	Objectives: To investigate factors associated with injury in amateur male and female rugby union players. Design: A prospective cohort study. Setting: Amateur rugby clubs in Ireland. Participants: Male (n = 113) and female (n = 24) amateur rugby union players from 5 of the top 58 amateur clubs in Ireland. Main outcome measures: Pre-season testing included physical tests assessing hamstring flexibility, dorsiflexion range of movement, adductor muscle strength and foot position. Wellness questionnaires assessed sleep quality (PSQI), coping skills (ACSI-28) and support levels (PASS-Q). Players were monitored throughout the season for injury. Results: The time-loss match injury incidence rate was 48.2/1000 player hours for males and 45.2/1000 player hours for females. Two risk profiles emerged involving; 'age + navicular drop + training pitch surface' (53%) and 'age + navicular drop + groin strength' (16%). An inverse relationship between groin strength and groin injury was found for the 'backs' players (-0.307, p < 0.05). Using the PSQI, 61% of players had poor sleep quality, however no relationship between the wellness questionnaires and injury was found. Conclusion: Two injury risk profiles emerged, associated with subsequent injury occurrence. Using these risk profiles, individualized prevention strategies may be designed regarding deficits in groin muscle strength and identifying foot alignment. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Yeomans, Caithriona; Comyns, Thomas M.; Costello, Victoria; Warrington, Giles D.; Harrison, Andrew J.; Lyons, Mark; Campbell, Mark J.; Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Castletroy, Limerick, Ireland; [Yeomans, Caithriona; Comyns, Thomas M.; Cahalan, Roisin; Warrington, Giles D.; Glynn, Liam G.; Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Castletroy, Limerick, Ireland; [Cahalan, Roisin] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Castletroy, Limerick, Ireland; [Hayes, Kevin] Univ Coll Cork, Sch Math Sci, Cork, Ireland; [Campbell, Mark J.] Univ Limerick, Irish Software Res Ctr, Lero, Castletroy, Limerick, Ireland; [Glynn, Liam G.] Univ Limerick, Grad Entry Med Sch, Castletroy, Limerick, Ireland; [Yeomans, Caithriona] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Castletroy, Limerick, Ireland								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100008	37	Article; Article		
J	Mentiplay, Benjamin F.; Mosler, Andrea B.; Crossley, Kay M.; Carey, David L.; Sakadjian, Kathleen; Bodger, Riley; Shipperd, Benjamin; Bruder, Andrea M.								Lower limb musculoskeletal screening in elite female Australian football players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				40				33	43		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.08.005			NOV 2019	2019	Objective: To report physical characteristics of lower-limb strength, endurance, range of motion, balance, and pain during adductor squeeze in elite female Australian Football (AF) players, and to examine the effect of limb dominance, previous AF experience, age, and previous level of sports participation on these characteristics. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Three elite AF clubs. Participants: Eighty-five female players. All were aged >= 18, contracted for the 2018 season, and participated in pre-season training. Main outcome measures: The physical characteristic assessments included; pain on adductor squeeze, weight-bearing lunge, side bridge, isometric hip abduction and adduction strength, and the modified star excursion balance test. Results: The adductor squeeze had low pain scores, with 93% of players scoring <= 2 on the numerical rating scale. Other assessment results were (mean +/- SD): 10.8 +/- 2.7 cm for weight-bearing lunge, 95 +/- 39s for side bridge, 1.85 +/- 0.23 and 1.85 +/- 0.36Nmikg for hip abduction and adduction strength respectively, and 92 +/- 8% for the modified star excursion balance test. There was no clinically relevant effect of limb dominance, previous AF experience, age, or previous level of sports on physical characteristics. Conclusions: Physical characteristics for five assessments are reported. These data can be used for comparison purposes in the screening and clinical management of elite female AF players. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mentiplay, Benjamin F.; Mosler, Andrea B.; Crossley, Kay M.; Carey, David L.; Bruder, Andrea M.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Mentiplay, Benjamin F.; Carey, David L.; Bruder, Andrea M.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Sakadjian, Kathleen] Melbourne Football Club AFLW, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bodger, Riley] Carlton Football Club AFLW, Carlton, Vic, Australia; [Shipperd, Benjamin] Collingwood Football Club AFLW, Collingwood, Vic, Australia; [Mentiplay, Benjamin F.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000498750100005	47	Article; Article		
J	Sousa, Caio, V; Aguiar, Samuel da S.; Sales, Marcelo M.; de Moraes, Milton R.; Nikolaidis, Pantelis T.; Rosemann, Thomas; Knechtle, Beat; Simoes, Herbert G.; Olher, Rafael dos R.								Hydration Status After an Ironman Triathlon: A Meta-Analysis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				70	1			93	102		10.2478/hukin-2018-0096			NOV 2019	2019	The Ironman is one of the most popular triathlon events in the world. Such a race involves a great number of tactical decisions for a healthy finish and best performance. Dehydration is widely postulated to decrease performance and is known as a cause of dropouts in Ironman. Despite the importance of hydration status after an Ironman triathlon, there is a clear lack of review and especially meta-analysis studies on this topic. Therefore, the objective was to systematically review the literature and carry out a meta-analysis investigating the hydration status after an Ironman triathlon. We conducted a systematic review of the literature up to June 2016 that included the following databases: PubMed, SCOPUS, Science Direct and Web of Science. From the initial 995 references, we included 6 studies in the qualitative analysis and in the meta-analysis. All trials had two measures of hydration status after a full Ironman race. Total body water, blood and urine osmolality, urine specific gravity and sodium plasma concentration were considered as hydration markers. Three investigators independently abstracted data on the study design, sample size, participants' and race characteristics, outcomes, and quantitative data for the meta-analysis. In the pooled analysis, it seems that the Ironman event led to a moderate state of dehydration in comparison to baseline values (SMD 0.494; 95% CI 0.220 to 0.767; p = 0.001). Some evidence of heterogeneity and consistency was also observed: Q = 19.6; I-2 = 28.5%; tau(2) = 2.39. The results suggest that after the race athletes seem to be hypo-hydrated in comparison to baseline values.		[Sousa, Caio, V; de Moraes, Milton R.; Simoes, Herbert G.; Olher, Rafael dos R.] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Aguiar, Samuel da S.; Sales, Marcelo M.] Goias State Univ, Goias, Brazil; [Nikolaidis, Pantelis T.] Exercise Physiol Lab, Nikaia, Greece; [Rosemann, Thomas; Knechtle, Beat] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl, St Gallen, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Gesundheitszentrum St Gallen, Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000503402200009	63	Article; Article		
J	Dantas, Glauko; Barros, Alef; Silva, Bianca; Belem, Louise; Ferreira, Vitoria; Fonseca, Ana; Castro, Pedro; Santos, Thiago; Lemos, Telma; Herickson, Wouber								Cold-water Immersion Does Not Accelerate Performance Recovery after 10-km Street Run: Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			228	238		10.1080/02701367.2019.1659477			APR 2 2020	2020	The use of strategies to assure better post-effort recovery is frequent in sports settings. There are several interventions available for exercise induced muscle damage recovery, but cold-water immersion (CWI) stands out among them. The effects of CWI are unclear in the literature and, although the number of street runners has been growing, there is a gap in the scientific evidence regarding the use of CWI to recover runners' performance after a 10-km street run. Purpose: The goal of our study was to analyze the effects of CWI on the recovery of muscle damage markers after a 10-km street run. Method: We randomly assigned thirty male recreational street runners, immediately after a 10-km street run, into three recovery groups: control (rest for 10 minutes), immersion (10 min immersed in water without ice at room temperature) and CWI (10 min immersed in water with ice at 10oC). We assessed pain, triple hop distance, extensor peak torque and blood creatine kinase levels pre- and post-run, post-intervention and 24 hours after the run. Results: The 10-km run was enough to decrease triple hop distance and extensor peak torque, and increase levels of creatine kinase (p < 0.05); however, we found no time/group interactions in any of the assessed variables after we applied the appropriate interventions (p > 0.05). Conclusion: 10-min CWI at 10 degrees C was no more effective than water immersion and rest in recovering muscle damage markers after 10-km runs.		[Dantas, Glauko] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Barros, Alef; Silva, Bianca; Belem, Louise; Ferreira, Vitoria; Fonseca, Ana; Castro, Pedro; Santos, Thiago; Lemos, Telma; Herickson, Wouber] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Dantas, Glauko] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Phys Therapy Dept, Rodovia Washington Luiz,Km 235, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000492540000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Yubing; Chen, Ang								Two Pathways Underlying the Effects of Physical Education on Out-Of-School Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			197	208		10.1080/02701367.2019.1656325			APR 2 2020	2020	One primary goal of physical education (PE) is to promote students' lifelong physical activity (PA). This goal implies that PE should not only improve students' PA in PE classes but also promote their PA outside of the school known as the "PE effect." Purpose: In this study, we proposed a two-pathway model of the "PE effect" and hypothesized that learning in PE and positive motivational experience in PE are two possible pathways through which the "PE effect" emerges. We tested the tenability of this two-pathway model from the perspective of knowledge learning and autonomous motivation in PE. Methods: A total of 394 eighth-grade students from five schools provided data on PA knowledge, out-of-school PA, and autonomous motivation toward PE and PA. Structural equation modeling was used to test the two-pathway model. Results: Results showed that the students' knowledge had a direct effect (beta = .18, p < .05) on their autonomous motivation for PA and an indirect effect (beta = .02, p < .05) on out-of-school PA through influencing autonomous motivation toward PA. Students' autonomous motivation for PE had a direct effect (beta = .41, p < .05) on their autonomous motivation toward PA and an indirect effect (beta = .04, p < .05) on out-of-school PA through autonomous motivation toward PA. Conclusion: These results indicate that the two-pathway model is tenable in terms of knowledge learning and autonomous motivation in PE and imply that teaching knowledge in an autonomy-supportive PE environment may be an effective way to promote students' out-of-school PA.		[Wang, Yubing] Univ Wisconsin, Whitewater, WI 53190 USA; [Chen, Ang] Univ N Carolina, Greensboro, NC USA; [Wang, Yubing] Dept Hlth Phys Educ Recreat & Coaching, 800 W Main St, Whitewater, WI 53190 USA								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000492306500001	41	Article; Article		
J	Corres, Pablo; MartinezAguirre-Betolaza, Aitor; Fryer, Simon M.; Gorostegi-Anduaga, Ilargi; Arratibel-Imaz, Inaki; Aispuru, G. Rodrigo; Maldonado-Martin, Sara								Long-term Effects in the EXERDIET-HTA Study: Supervised Exercise Training <i>vs</i>. Physical Activity Advice								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			209	218		10.1080/02701367.2019.1656794			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: To determine whether improvements in cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF), blood pressure (BP) and body composition previously seen after a 16-week exercise intervention (POST) with hypocaloric diet are maintained following six months (6M) of unsupervised exercise time. Methods: Overweight/obese, physically inactive participants with primary hypertension (HTN) (n = 190) were randomly assigned into an attention control group (physical activity recommendations) or one of three supervised exercise groups. After POST, all participants received diet and physical activity advice for the following 6M but no supervision. All anthropometric and physiological measurements were taken pre and post the 16-week supervised intervention period, as well as after 6M of no supervision. Results: After 6M: 1) body mass (BM) (Delta = 2.5%) and waist circumference (Delta = 1.8%) were higher (P < .005) than POST, but lower (P < .005) than pre-intervention (BM, Delta = -5.1%; waist circumference, Delta = -4.7%), with high-volume and high-intensity interval training group revealing a higher BM reduction (Delta = -6.4 kg) compared to control group (Delta = -3.5 kg); 2) BP variables were higher (P < .001) compared to POST with no change from pre-intervention; and 3) CRF was higher compared to pre-intervention (Delta = 17.1%, P < .001) but lower than POST (Delta = -5.7%, P < .001). Conclusions: When an overweight/obese population with HTN attains significant improvements in cardiometabolic health POST intervention with diet restriction, there is a significant reduction following 6M when exercise and diet supervision is removed, and only recommendations were applied. These results suggest the need for a regular, systematic and supervised diet and exercise programs to avoid subsequent declines in cardiometabolic health.		[Corres, Pablo; MartinezAguirre-Betolaza, Aitor; Gorostegi-Anduaga, Ilargi; Arratibel-Imaz, Inaki; Maldonado-Martin, Sara] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Leioa, Spain; [Fryer, Simon M.] Univ Gloucestershire, Gloucester, England; [Maldonado-Martin, Sara] Univ Basque Country UPV EHU, Phys Act & Sport Sci Sect, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Portal Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000492306900001	33	Article; Article		
J	Khacharem, Aimen; Trabelsi, Khaled; Zoudji, Bachir; Kalyuga, Slava								Communicating Dynamic Behaviors in Basketball: The Role of Verbal Instructions and Arrow Symbols								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	2			219	227		10.1080/02701367.2019.1657553			APR 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Guided by cognitive load theory and cognitive theory of multimedia learning, the purpose of this study was to evaluate players' ability to integrate dynamic information presented under different conditions: a verbal condition, in which instructions were given orally; a visual condition, in which instructions were shown using arrow symbols; and a redundant condition, in which both visual and verbal instructions were presented simultaneously. Method: In a 2 x 3 design, we asked basketball players with varied levels of skill (less-skilled, skilled) to rate their invested mental effort and to perform a recall test after learning from either the verbal, visual or redundant condition. Results: Results demonstrated that the less-skilled players benefited more from the redundant condition, whereas the skilled participants benefited more from the visual condition. Conclusion: Recommendations for improving instructional design techniques aimed at the transmission of tactical instructions in team games are proposed.		[Khacharem, Aimen] Paris East Creteil Univ, Creteil, France; [Khacharem, Aimen; Zoudji, Bachir] Univ Polytech Hautes de France, Valenciennes, France; [Trabelsi, Khaled] Univ Sfax, Sfax, Tunisia; [Kalyuga, Slava] Univ New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Khacharem, Aimen] Paris East Creteil Univ, UFR SESS STAPS, LIRTES, EA 7313, Creteil, France								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000492307100001	40	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio; Martinent, Guillaume; Pelegrin, Antonia								Sport emotions profiles: Relationships with burnout and coping skills among competitive athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				15	1			9	16	1747954119884039	10.1177/1747954119884039			FEB 2020	2020	The aims of the study were to identify naturally occurring competitive emotional profiles and examine whether participants from several profiles significantly differed on burnout and coping. A sample of 424 competitive athletes (M-age = 32.38; SD = 13.16) completed a series of self-report questionnaires. Comparing the sample as a whole, cluster analyses revealed two emotional profiles: (a) High unpleasant emotions and low pleasant emotions; and (b) moderately high pleasant emotions and low unpleasant emotions. Results of MANOVAs showed significant differences across emotional profiles on burnout (emotional/physical exhaustion, reduced accomplishment, sport devaluation) and coping (resignation, distancing, venting emotions and mental distraction). Therefore, results suggested that an emotion profile approach offered a robust heuristic for examining emotions in a more holistic method to unpack their complex associations with key outcomes (coping, burnout) and they have implications for intervention.		[Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Univ Int La Rioja UNIR, Fac Educ, La Rioja, Spain; [Martinent, Guillaume] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, EA 7428, Lab Vulnerabil & Innovat Sport, Lyon, France; [Pelegrin, Antonia] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Dept Hlth Psychol, Elche, Spain; [Gonzalez-Garcia, Higinio] Univ Int La Rioja UNIR, Fac Educ, Madrid 28040, Spain								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000492616400001	41	Article; Article		
J	Neville, Ross D.; Makopoulou, Kyriaki; Hopkins, William G.								Effect of an Inclusive Physical Education (IPE) Training Workshop on Trainee Teachers? Self-Efficacy								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			102	114		10.1080/02701367.2019.1650877			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Children with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND) are often excluded from physical education (PE). Opportunities exist to enhance the competence of trainee teachers, thus preparing them for the demands of inclusive PE (IPE). In this study, we examined the effect of IPE training workshops on trainee teachers? self-efficacy for including SEND children within PE. Method: Data was collection from 366 trainee teachers across 44 workshops (63% females; 57% primary-school trainees; age, 23???5 y, mean ? standard deviation; age range 18?53 y). A pre-post design was used to assess the effect of the workshop and possible moderating factors. Data were analyzed using mixed modelling. Results: IPE training had a large beneficial effect on trainees? self-efficacy (1.61, ?0.21; standardized effect size, 99% confidence limits). Mixed modelling revealed substantial differences in the mean outcome between workshops. The standard deviation (SD) representing this variation between workshops was moderate-sized (SD?=?0.30, ?0.30). We also found that trainees with an above average sense of self-efficacy at baseline (mean +1SD) were likely to benefit more. Workshop size (0.35, ?0.42) and trainees? perception of workshop quality (0.39, ?0.19) were substantial moderators of changes in self-efficacy. Other moderators with possible substantial effects were trainee specialization and completion of a school-based placement. Conclusion: This study supports the viability of embedding IPE within teacher training. Attention should be paid to trainees? starting points prior to scheduling training. The size of workshops and quality of delivery should also be considered when developing IPE competencies within trainees.		[Neville, Ross D.] Univ Coll Dublin, Dublin, Ireland; [Makopoulou, Kyriaki] Univ Birmingham, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Hopkins, William G.] Victoria Univ, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Neville, Ross D.] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sport Sci, Dublin 4, Ireland								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000494154400001	75	Article; Article		
J	Johns, Karen L.; Philipson, Peter M.; Hayes, Philip R.								Planning for optimal performance - What happens before the taper?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	6			749	764		10.1177/1747954119880669			DEC 2019	2019	This study analysed the contemporary performance data of middle-distance athletes to determine (a) the number of competitive performances prior to the season's fastest performance and (b) the time frame between their first and fastest competitive performances of that season. Using a publicly available database, data on the number of races and days between athletes first and fastest races were extracted. The analysis utilised 4800 observations from 1166 individual athletes for the period 2006-2017. Male 800m athletes achieved their fastest performance in eight races (IQR=4-12) distributed over 55 days (IQR=29-87). Female 800m athletes also required eight races (IQR=5-12), distributed over 63 days (IQR=34-91). In the 1500m event, male athletes, required six races (IQR=3-9) over 48 days (IQR=25-76), while female athletes, required seven races (IQR=4-10) over 56 days (IQR=28-84). For both sexes, 1500m athletes raced less and over a shorter period than 800m athletes before reaching their fastest performance. Female athletes had a longer time frame and number of races than male athletes. This study provides an evidence-based indicator of when a middle-distance runner's fastest performance is likely to occur, providing benchmarks that could act as a guide for coaches when designing competition programmes, prior to any tapering process.		[Johns, Karen L.; Hayes, Philip R.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, Tyne & Wear, England; [Philipson, Peter M.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Math Phys & Elect Engn, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Johns, Karen L.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, Tyne & Wear, England								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000494120400001	47	Article; Article		
J	Cuenca-Martinez, Ferran; Suso-Marti, Luis; Sanchez-Martin, Daniel; Soria-Soria, Clara; Serrano-Santos, Juan; Paris-Alemany, Alba; La Touche, Roy; Vicente Leon-Hernandez, Jose								Effects of Motor Imagery and Action Observation on Lumbo-pelvic Motor Control, Trunk Muscles Strength and Level of Perceived Fatigue: A Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			34	46		10.1080/02701367.2019.1645941			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of motor imagery (MI) and action observation (AO) combined with a motor control exercises program for the lumbopelvic region. Method: Forty-five asymptomatic individuals were randomized into three groups: MI (n?=?15), AO (n?=?15) or control group (CG) (n?=?15). The outcome measures included lumbopelvic motor control measured with a stabilizer pressure biofeedback, trunk muscle strength using a dynamometer and the perceived fatigue using a visual analogue scale. Participants were assessed at pre-intervention, at first week of intervention (mid) and post-intervention. Results: Regarding lumbopelvic motor control, we observed significant within-group differences between pre- and the mid and post-intervention assessment in AO group (p <?.001, d >?0.80). MI and CG groups showed significant differences between pre- and post-intervention assessment (p?<?.05, d >?0.80). Regarding the direct comparison in the ?Mid-Pre differences between groups, only the AO group was superior to the CG with a large effect size (d?>?0.80). Regarding trunk muscle strength, significant within-group differences between pre- and post-intervention assessments were observed in AO (p?<?.001, d = ?1.25) and MI (p?<?.05, d = ?1.00) groups. In relation to the perceived fatigue, statistically significant within-group differences were found in all groups (p?<?.05, d >?0.60). Conclusion: AO training caused faster changes in lumbopelvic motor control compared with the CG group. The AO strategy could be used as a guideline for teaching lumbopelvic motor control exercises.		[Cuenca-Martinez, Ferran; Suso-Marti, Luis; Sanchez-Martin, Daniel; Soria-Soria, Clara; Serrano-Santos, Juan; Paris-Alemany, Alba; La Touche, Roy; Vicente Leon-Hernandez, Jose] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Suso-Marti, Luis] CEU Univ, Univ Cardenal Herrera CEU, Valencia, Spain; [Paris-Alemany, Alba; La Touche, Roy] Inst Neurociencia & Dolor Craneofacial INDCRAN, Madrid, Spain; [Paris-Alemany, Alba; La Touche, Roy] Hosp Univ La Paz IdiPAZ, Inst Invest Sanitaria, Madrid, Spain; [La Touche, Roy] Univ La Salle, Ctr Super Estudios, Fac Ciencias Salud, Calle Salle 10, Madrid 28023, Spain								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000491388000001	40	Article; Article		
J	Scott, Lauren; Shen, Bo; Price, Alanna; Centeio, Erin								The Role of Content Specificity in Situational Interest and Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			127	135		10.1080/02701367.2019.1650879			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: To identify the role of content specificity in moderating situational interest and its relationship with physical activity (PA), we examined the between- and within-content relations of situational interest and PA in an urban elementary physical education context using fitness and basketball as comparative contents. Method: Fourth and fifth graders (N?=?125) completed questionnaires and wore pedometers to assess situational interest and PA across a fitness unit and a basketball unit, respectively. Results: Based on our confirmatory factor analyses and fit indexes, situational interest, and PA demonstrated strong content specificity. Strengths of associations between the two units differed by situational interest dimensions and PA (r???.50). Within-content interrelations of these dimensions and PA were not consistent (X-2 Decrease ? 3.40, p <?.05). Conclusion: Our findings suggest that content specificity in physical education plays a significant role in moderating students? motivation and its function on PA.		[Scott, Lauren; Shen, Bo] Wayne State Univ, Detroit, MI 48202 USA; [Price, Alanna] Univ Preparat Acad, San Jose, CA USA; [Centeio, Erin] Univ Hawaii, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Shen, Bo] Wayne State Univ, Div Kinesiol Hlth & Sport Studies, Detroit, MI 48202 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000490616100001	38	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Yen T.; Barcelona, Jeanne M.; Cance, Jessica Duncan; Calvert, Hannah G.; Barnes, Seraphine Pitt; Wargo, Jane; Castelli, Darla M.								Development of the Fitness Education Index: A Scale of Organizational Level Capacity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			172	178		10.1080/02701367.2019.1654066			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Fitness education is essential for children?s health, but determining the effectiveness of instruction related to health-related fitness is difficult. The present study developed and confirmed the validity of a 20-item scale, adapted from the School Health Index (Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention [CDC], 2014), to evaluate the success of fitness education portion of the Presidential Youth Fitness Program (PYFP) across a sample of 785 teachers. Method: The initial subset (n?=?373) represented 353 schools and was used for conducting an exploratory factor analysis. The second subset (n?=?412) representing 404 schools, was used to conduct the confirmatory factor analysis. Teachers self-assessed their perceived degree of implementation of fitness education (full, partial, under development, not in place) within their school (i.e., teachers helped students set fitness goals). Results: An initial exploratory factor analysis revealed that the Fitness Education Index questions clustered into six factors. A subsequent confirmatory factor analysis conducted using Mplus concluded the six-factor solution was a good fit (CFI?=?0.90, TLI?=?0.88, RMSEA?=?0.08, SRMR?=?0.06). Conclusion: This scale is a valid measure of a school?s readiness to initiate and track progress toward the full implementation of fitness education.		[Chen, Yen T.; Barcelona, Jeanne M.; Cance, Jessica Duncan; Castelli, Darla M.] Univ Texas Austin, 2109 San Jacinto Blvd,Mail Code D3700, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Calvert, Hannah G.] Boise State Univ, Boise, ID 83725 USA; [Barnes, Seraphine Pitt] Ctr Dis Control & Prevent, Atlanta, GA USA; [Wargo, Jane] Presidential Youth Fitness Program, Silver Spring, MD USA; [Barnes, Seraphine Pitt] Ctr Dis Control & Prevent, Div Populat Hlth, 4770 Buford Highway NE,MS K-27, Atlanta, GA 30341 USA; [Castelli, Darla M.] Univ Texas Austin, 2109 San Jacinto Blvd,Mail Code D3700, Austin, TX 78712 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000490617700001	17	Article; Article		
J	Ensign, Julene; Woods, Amelia Mays; Kulinna, Pamela Hodges								My Turn to Make a Difference: Efficacy Trends among Induction Physical Educators								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			115	126		10.1080/02701367.2019.1650878			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: This study provides a longitudinal examination of the influences enhancing or constraining the development of efficacy in ten induction physical educators. Method: Over a span of three years, data from structured interviews and responses to the Physical Education Teaching Efficacy Scale were collected at seven time points. Utilizing a mixed-methods approach, data were analyzed for qualitative themes and quantitative trends through the lens of various factors known to influence the career cycle. Results: In the personal environment, the presence of positive individual dispositions, the ability to balance competing demands, and high levels of perceived support emerged as constructive enhancers of efficacy. In the organizational environment, positive influences included the ability to meet the expectations of stakeholders and perceived confidence related to the tasks of teaching. Over time, significant differences existed for the survey categories measuring efficacy in content knowledge, accommodating skill level differences, teaching students with special needs, and instruction. Furthermore, significant differences also occurred related to gender, geographical location/setting, and school classification. Conclusion: Efficacy levels in beginning physical educators are highly dynamic and context-specific, but the presence of high levels of perceived support, both personally and organizationally, can positively enhance the efficacy of induction teachers related to balancing demands both inside and outside the classroom. Implications include the necessity for authentic and thorough preservice training and upon employment, access to adequate resources.		[Ensign, Julene] Judson Univ, Elgin, IL USA; [Woods, Amelia Mays] Univ Illinois, Chicago, IL 60680 USA; [Kulinna, Pamela Hodges] Arizona State Univ, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA; [Ensign, Julene] Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, 100 E Normal Ave, Kirksville, MO 63501 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000489811200001	36	Article; Article		
J	Perez-Sousa, Miguel A.; Olivares, Pedro R.; Garcia-Hermoso, Antonio; Gusi, Narcis								Fitness as a Mediator of the Enhancement of Quality of Life after a 6-Months Exercise Program								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			24	33		10.1080/02701367.2019.1645939			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: The study aimed to test whether improvement in fitness components, mediates the changes in Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) after exercise intervention in overweight and obese children. Methods and design: 170 obese and overweight children (121 exercise group and 49 control group) participated in a public exercise program based on sports practice for 6 months, 2 h per week. Anthropometry, physical fitness, and HRQoL were measured. Magnitude-based inferences and Cohen?s effect size were performed to analyze the program effect. To know which physical fitness components mediated the improvement on children?s HRQoL, multiple mediation analyses were performed. Results: the analysis showed a moderate effect on some fitness components and a moderate and small effect on HRQoL. The improvement of agility or cardiorespiratory fitness showed a significant indirect effect on the enhancements in some HRQoL dimensions. Conclusion: after a 6-months exercise program in overweight and obese children, all physical fitness components improved, being responsible for the improvement of the HRQoL, agility and cardiorespiratory fitness.		[Perez-Sousa, Miguel A.; Gusi, Narcis] Univ Extremadura, Caceres, Spain; [Olivares, Pedro R.] Univ Autonoma Chile, Santiago, Chile; [Garcia-Hermoso, Antonio] Univ Publ Navarra UPNA, Complejo Hosp Navarra, Pamplona, Spain; [Perez-Sousa, Miguel A.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Ciencias Deporte, Av Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000489812000001	38	Article; Article		
J	Kern, Ben D.; Imagbe, Stacy; Bellar, David; Clemons, James								Health-Related Fitness Content Knowledge, Physical Activity, and Instructional Practices Among US Physical Educators								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			92	101		10.1080/02701367.2019.1648744			JAN 2 2020	2020	To promote student physical literacy, physical educators must teach and assess health-related fitness content knowledge (HRFK) and model healthy lifestyles. Individual HRFK is associated with lifetime physical activity (PA) and each may precede/predict both teaching and assessing of student HRFK. Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine factors related to physical educators? teaching and assessment of student HRFK. Method: Physical educators (N =?796) representing each SHAPE America regional district completed a 33-item survey to determine their individual HRFK, weekly PA, and extent to which they teach (tHRFK) and assess (aHRFK) student HRFK. Results: Multiple regression was conducted to determine if tHRFK and aHRFK are predicted by teachers? individual HRFK, min/week of light, moderate, or vigorous PA, or any demographic variables. Overall, the tHRFK model was significant (F =?10.919, R-2?=?0.100, p < .001) with all predictors significant, except weekly minutes of moderate PA and participant HRFK (p <?.05). The aHRFK model was also significant (F =?45.736, R-2?=?0.108, p <?.022) with all predictors significant except weekly minutes of moderate PA, education level, and participant HRFK (p <?.05). Conclusion: U.S. physical educators possess high levels of HRFK, however HRFK is not a significant predictor of their teaching and assessing HRFK. Weekly vigorous PA, was the strongest predictor, suggesting that teachers? commitment to their own personal PA is critical to teaching and assessing HRFK among their students. Further research should consider vigorous PA along with other potentially related variables to more fully describe and predict physical educators? teaching and assessment of HRFK.		[Kern, Ben D.; Imagbe, Stacy; Bellar, David; Clemons, James] Univ Louisiana Lafayette, Lafayette, LA 70506 USA; [Imagbe, Stacy] Louisiana State Univ, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Bellar, David] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Charlotte, NC USA; [Kern, Ben D.] Univ Louisiana Lafayette, Sch Kinesiol, 225 Cajundome Blvd, Lafayette, LA 70506 USA								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000489810800001	48	Article; Article		
J	Stracciolini, Andrea; Luz, Jennifer; Walker, Gregory; Edwards, Nicholas; Faigenbaum, Avery D.; Myer, Gregory D.								Are primary care physicians ill equipped to evaluate and treat childhood physical inactivity?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	2			199	207		10.1080/00913847.2019.1673685			APR 2 2020	2020	Objective: To investigate primary care physician clinical practice patterns, barriers, and education surrounding pediatric physical activity (PA), and to compare practice patterns by discipline. Study design: Cross-sectional study Methods: 4500 randomly selected pediatricians, family practice, and sports medicine physicians in the United States were surveyed (11% response rate). Main outcome measures were questionnaire answers on clinical effort, attitudes, and barriers surrounding PA, medical education in exercise science, and awareness of ICD-9 diagnostic codes pertaining to physical inactivity. Results: Approximately 15% of patient interaction time was spent on the evaluation and treatment of physical inactivity for a normal weight child. For an overweight or obese child, clinical time spent on PA almost doubles. Regardless of weight, sports medicine physicians spent significantly more time on the evaluation of physical activity compared to family/internal medicine physicians and pediatricians. Mean percentage of time family/internal medicine physicians spent on PA evaluation and treatment was consistently less than sports medicine physicians, and consistently more than pediatricians. Most physicians strongly agreed that PA assessment and treatment are important for disease prevention; only 28% had ever made the diagnosis of childhood physical inactivity. Limited clinical time was identified as a primary barrier to diagnosing childhood physical inactivity. Eighty-five percent of respondents were unaware of ICD-9 codes for reimbursement of PA evaluation. Eighty-one percent reported a paucity of exercise science education in medical school. Conclusion: While physicians report that PA evaluation is important in practice, behavior patterns surrounding time evaluating PA and treating childhood physical inactivity are discrepant. Pediatricians showed less favorable attitudes and effort surrounding PA compared to other primary care disciplines. The majority of physicians are unaware of physical inactivity diagnostic codes, have never made the diagnosis of childhood physical inactivity, and may not be receiving basic pediatric exercise science training required for evaluating and treating childhood physical inactivity.		[Stracciolini, Andrea; Luz, Jennifer] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Stracciolini, Andrea] Harvard Med Sch, Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Stracciolini, Andrea] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Med, Div Emergency Med, Boston, MA USA; [Stracciolini, Andrea; Luz, Jennifer] Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Stracciolini, Andrea; Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Walker, Gregory] Colorado Childrens Hosp, Denver, CO USA; [Edwards, Nicholas] Tria Orthoped Ctr, Bloomington, MN USA; [Faigenbaum, Avery D.] Coll New Jersey, Ewing, NJ USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp & Med Ctr, Div Sports Med, SPORT Ctr, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Cincinnati, Coll Med, Dept Pediat, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Cincinnati, Coll Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Stracciolini, Andrea] Harvard Med Sch, Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA 02115 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000490036800001	48	Article; Article		
J	Pini, Alessia; Markstrom, Jonas L.; Schelin, Lina								Test?retest reliability measures for curve data: an overview with recommendations and supplementary code								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	2			179	200		10.1080/14763141.2019.1655089			FEB 7 2022	2022	The purpose of this paper is to provide an overview of available methods for reliability investigations when the outcome of interest is a curve. Curve data, or functional data, is commonly collected in biomechanical research in order to better understand different aspects of human movement. Using recent statistical developments, curve data can be analysed in its most detailed form, as functions. However, an overview of appropriate statistical methods for assessing reliability of curve data is lacking. A review of contemporary literature of reliability measures for curve data within the fields of biomechanics and statistics identified the following methods: coefficient of multiple correlation, functional limits of agreement, measures of distance and similarity, and integrated pointwise indices (an extension of univariate reliability measures to curve data, inclusive of Pearson correlation, intraclass correlation, and standard error of measurement). These methods are briefly presented, implemented (R-code available as supplementary material) and evaluated on simulated data to highlight advantages and disadvantages of the methods. Among the identified methods, the integrated intraclass correlation and standard error of measurement are recommended. These methods are straightforward to implement, enable results over the domain, and consider variation between individuals, which the other methods partly neglect.		[Pini, Alessia; Schelin, Lina] Umea Univ, Umea Sch Business Econ & Stat, Dept Stat, Umea, Sweden; [Pini, Alessia] Univ Cattolica Sacro Cuore, Dept Stat Sci, Milan, Italy; [Markstrom, Jonas L.] Umea Univ, Dept Community Med & Rehabil, Physiotherapy, Umea, Sweden; [Schelin, Lina] Umea Univ, Umea Sch Business Econ & Stat, Dept Stat, Umea, Sweden								31							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000488683100001	54	Article; Article		
J	Cushman, Daniel M.; Christiansen, Jacob; Kirk, Melissa; Clements, Nathan D.; Cunningham, Shellie; Teramoto, Masaru; McCormick, Zachary L.								Image guidance used for large joint and bursa injections; a survey study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	2			208	214		10.1080/00913847.2019.1674122			APR 2 2020	2020	Objectives: To determine the current rates of use of available image guidance modalities for large joint and bursal injections, in addition to their relationships to physician demographics. Methods: An electronic survey was sent to 3,400 members of the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine (AMSSM), examining types of guidance used for each large joint and bursal injection. Results: A total of 674 sports medicine physicians responded to the survey. Intra-articular hip and glenohumeral joint injections were more commonly performed with ultrasound guidance, while palpation-guidance was more common with all other injections. Physicians who specialized in Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation (PM&R) were more likely to use ultrasound for trochanteric bursa (p = 0.007, OR = 4.16 [1.46?11.8]), while internal medicine-, pediatrics-, and family medicine-trained physicians were more likely to use palpation guidance for at least one joint (p < 0.05). Physicians with fewer years of experience were more likely to use ultrasound for glenohumeral joint injections (p ? 0.002 for all age groups with less than 20 years of experience, ORs ranging from 6.3 to 9.2). Conclusion: Palpation-guidance is the most common technique used for large joint and bursal injections, other than for glenohumeral and hip joint injections. PM&R-trained physicians and those with less experience tend to use ultrasound more frequently.		[Cushman, Daniel M.; Christiansen, Jacob; Kirk, Melissa; Cunningham, Shellie; Teramoto, Masaru; McCormick, Zachary L.] Univ Utah, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, 590 Wakara Way, Salt Lake City, UT 84108 USA; [Clements, Nathan D.] Univ Texas Hlth Sci Ctr San Antonio, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, San Antonio, TX 78229 USA; [Cushman, Daniel M.] Univ Utah, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, 590 Wakara Way, Salt Lake City, UT 84108 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000489959900001	37	Article; Article		
J	O'Connor, Siobhan; Geaney, Deirdre; Beidler, Erica								Non-disclosure in Irish collegiate student-athletes: do concussion history, knowledge, pressure to play and gender impact concussion reporting?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	2			186	193		10.1080/00913847.2019.1671141			APR 2 2020	2020	Objectives: Non-disclosure of concussions by collegiate student-athletes is documented internationally. This study aims to examine, for the first time, concussion non-disclosure frequency in Irish collegiate student-athletes and ascertain whether concussion history, knowledge, pressure to play and gender impacts this behavior. Methods: A cross-sectional study was implemented. A convenience sample of 268 Irish collegiate student-athletes from high-risk sports completed an anonymous survey developed from previous reliable, validated instruments. Results: One in four Irish collegiate student-athletes reported concussion non-disclosure. While a significant statistical model was generated to predict concussion non-disclosure (?(2)= 13.07 p = 0.004) with high specificity (99.5%), the sensitivity was non-existent (0.0%) and explained just 4.8?7.0% of the variance in non-disclosure. Just previous history of a concussion diagnosis contributed significantly to the model (OR = 2.6, 95% CI: 1.46?4.6). Gaps in concussion knowledge were evident and some participants previously felt pressure to return to play after sustaining a blow to the head by coaches (50.0%), teammates (45.5%) and fans (38.0%). Conclusion: Non-disclosure of concussions is common in this population. While gender, concussion knowledge and pressure to play do not seem to impact non-disclosure, a previous history of concussion increases the odds of concussion non-disclosure by 2.6 times. Thus, creating a positive concussion reporting culture in high-risk Irish collegiate sports is critical, particularly for those with a previous medically diagnosed concussion. Multifaceted strategies that incorporate the complexity of why athletes choose to not report a concussion targeted to the specific issues identified in this population and to all key stakeholders involved in collegiate sport are needed.		[O'Connor, Siobhan; Geaney, Deirdre] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, H270A, Dublin 9, Ireland; [Beidler, Erica] Duquesne Univ, Dept Athlet Training, Pittsburgh, PA 15219 USA; [O'Connor, Siobhan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, H270A, Dublin 9, Ireland								32							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000488386800001	40	Article; Article		
J	Schoenfeld, Brad Jon; Grgic, Jozo								Does Training to Failure Maximize Muscle Hypertrophy?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			108	113		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000473			OCT 2019	2019	It has been proposed that training to failure is a necessary strategy to maximize muscle growth. this article examines the research behind these claims and attempts to draw evidence-based conclusions as to the practical implications for hypertrophy training.		[Schoenfeld, Brad Jon] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY 10468 USA; [Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHES, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Schoenfeld, Brad Jon] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY 10468 USA								34							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200014	39	Article; Article		
J	Mullane, Michael; Turner, Anthony; Bishop, Chris								Exercise Technique: The Dead Bug								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			114	120		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000455			OCT 2019	2019	Strength and stability of the torso through core training provides the foundations on which distal limbs can function efficiently. The dead bug is one such exercise that promotes lumbopelvic stability and within a strength and conditioning program that can aid in the development of strength and power while also reducing the risk of injury. This column will discuss the muscles activated, proper exercise technique, regressions and progressions, and practical application of the dead bug exercise.		[Mullane, Michael] Leyton Orient Football Club Acad, Dept Sport Sci & Med, London, England; [Turner, Anthony; Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200015	22	Article; Article		
J	Waller, Michael; Shim, Andrew; Piper, Timothy								Strength and Conditioning Off-season Programming for High School Swimmers								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	5			79	85		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000480			OCT 2019	2019	Competition swimming has different categories of distances, individual, relay, and swim strokes that all require physical performance to succeed. An effective dry-land plan that uses both upper- and lower-body programming can improve swimmer strength, power, swim efficiency, and injury prevention. The current programming is specific to the off-season training for high school level swimmers that have general preparation and special preparation phases. These phases have tests for monitoring purposes, strength training, power exercises, and injury prevention outlined in the program.		[Waller, Michael] Arkansas Tech Univ, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Russellville, AR 72801 USA; [Shim, Andrew] Coll St Mary, Kinesiol & Exercise Sci Program, Omaha, NE USA; [Piper, Timothy] Western Illinois Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Macomb, IL 61455 USA; [Waller, Michael] Arkansas Tech Univ, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Russellville, AR 72801 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509685200010	25	Article; Article		
J	Patel, Rickesh; Nevill, Alan; Cloak, Ross; Smith, Tina; Wyon, Matthew								Relative age, maturation, anthropometry and physical performance characteristics of players within an Elite Youth Football Academy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	6			714	725	1747954119879348	10.1177/1747954119879348			DEC 2019	2019	A professional English football club with Category 1 academy status was investigated to determine the magnitude of relative age effects (RAE) within the club and explore between-quartile differences for somatic maturity, anthropometry and physical performances. Birth dates of 426 players from Under 9 to First Team were categorised into four birth quartiles (Q) and examined for relative age effects. Additionally, data on 382 players (Under 11 to First Team) were obtained for somatic maturity, anthropometry, countermovement jump, sprint (10 and 30 m), agility T-test and Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Level 1 or 2 performance to determine between-quartile differences. Odds ratios revealed Q1 players were 6.0 times more likely to be represented than Q4 players. Multilevel modelling demonstrated between birth quartile similarities for each variable across all age groups, though there was a tendency for Q4 players to outperform Q1 players between Under 11 and Under 18 groups. Strong relative age effects exist within this club as well as a tendency to select players demonstrating advanced growth and/or maturity, with some indication that higher categorised academies in England may be at risk of amplified selection biases. Talent identification strategies in elite youth football should actively seek to adopt novel approaches to reduce selection biases and avoid wasted potential.		[Patel, Rickesh; Nevill, Alan; Cloak, Ross; Smith, Tina; Wyon, Matthew] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Walsall WS1 3BD, W Midlands, England; [Patel, Rickesh] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Walsall WS1 3BD, W Midlands, England								30							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000488705100001	50	Article; Article		
J	Lienhart, Noemie; Nicaise, Virginie; Martinent, Guillaume; Guillet-Descas, Emma; Bois, Julien								Relationships between elite adolescent athletes' perceptions of parental behaviors and their motivational processes: Does sex matter?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	5			639	650		10.1177/1747954119873988			OCT 2019	2019	This study aimed to: (a) examine the relationships between high-level athletes' perceptions of mothers' and fathers' behaviors, their satisfaction of basic psychological needs, and sport motivation and (b) explore whether the sex of the athlete moderated the aforementioned relationships. A total of 333 adolescent athletes involved in intensive training settings completed the Parental Involvement in Sport Questionnaire (PISQ), the Behavioral Regulation in Sport Questionnaire (BRSQ) and the Basic Need Satisfaction in Sporting Context Scale (BNSSS). Data were examined using correlational analyses and partial least square path modeling (PLS-PM). The PLS-PM revealed that father's perceived pressure positively predicted maladaptive outcomes (controlled forms of motivation and amotivation). Perceptions of the mothers' and fathers' praise and understanding positively predicted adaptive athletes' outcomes (self-determined forms of motivation and satisfaction of competence and relatedness), whereas the mothers' and fathers' perceived pressure negatively predicted such adaptive outcomes. Furthermore, differences regarding the aforementioned relationships between mother's and father's behaviors and athletes' outcomes were highlighted across their sex. More significant relationships emerged for boys versus girls and between athletes' outcomes and the perceived behaviors of the same-sex parents. In particular, the direction of relationships between introjected regulation and two parental behaviors (i.e. perception of father's directive behaviors and perception of mother's pressure) was reversed for boys and girls. As a whole, this study highlighted that both parent's and child's sex should be evaluated to understand sport parenting.		[Lienhart, Noemie; Nicaise, Virginie; Martinent, Guillaume; Guillet-Descas, Emma] Univ Claude Bernard, Univ Lyon, Lab Vulnerabil & Innovat Sport, EA 7428, Lyon, France; [Bois, Julien] Univ Pau & Pays Adour, Lab Movement Equilibre Performance Hlth, EA 4445, Pau, France; [Lienhart, Noemie] Univ Lyon, Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lab Vulnerabil & Innovat Sport, EA 7428, 27-29 Blvd 11 Novembre, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000487058500005	36	Article; Article		
J	Michael, Isaac; Serpell, Benjamin G.; Colomer, Carmen M.; Mara, Jocelyn K.								Analysing the short-term impact of substitutes vs. starters in international rugby								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	5			667	674		10.1177/1747954119874163			OCT 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to compare the short-term performance of substitute players to starting players during International Rugby Union matches and determine how this performance was influenced by playing position, the timing of the substitution and the score margin between teams. Individual player performances (n = 298) for substitutes and the starters they replaced were observed across 17 matches played between tier 1 rugby nations. Performance was categorised as the total number of involvements, the number of attacking and defensive involvements, as well as the effectiveness of a player's performance for each of the above involvement categories. Results revealed forward substitutes performed more total (p = 0.001, ES = 0.61), attacking (p = 0.026, ES = 0.32) and defensive (p = 0.023, ES = 0.31) involvements than forward starters; however, there were no differences found for backs (p = 0.819-0.911). In addition, it was observed that an increase in score margin at the time of substitution led to a decrease in the total and attacking involvements per minute that a substitute performed, but an increase in defensive involvements for both forwards and backs. These findings provide a platform for coaches to make tactical decisions regarding substitution patterns during International Rugby matches. Specifically, coaches should prioritise forward substitutions over back substitutions, and implement tactical changes earlier in the second half to gain an advantage over the opposition.		[Michael, Isaac; Mara, Jocelyn K.] Univ Canberra, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Serpell, Benjamin G.; Colomer, Carmen M.] Brumbies Rugby, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Colomer, Carmen M.; Mara, Jocelyn K.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Mara, Jocelyn K.] Univ Canberra, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000487058500008	13	Article; Article		
J	Waters, Amy; Phillips, Elissa; Panchuk, Derek; Dawson, Andrew								The coach-scientist relationship in high-performance sport: Biomechanics and sprint coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	5			617	628		10.1177/1747954119859100			OCT 2019	2019	It is common for sport science practitioners, including sport biomechanists, to interact with high-performance coaches in the daily training environment. These relationships are beneficial for both scientist and coach, as well as the athletes. However, as indicated by difficulties in transferring new research into coaching practice, these relationships are not functioning as well as they could. The aim of this paper is to examine the various factors that influence the coach-biomechanist relationship in the elite sprinting context and gain an understanding of what impedes and enhances this, which will ultimately maximise an athlete's performance. Sprint coaches (n = 56) and applied sport biomechanists (n = 12) were surveyed to determine the participants' experiences working with each other and use of biomechanics in the training environment. Semi-structured interviews with coaches (n = 8) and biomechanists (n = 8) were conducted to further explore these ideas. From the biomechanists perspective, the relationship appeared to be less effective than from the coaches' perspective and both groups identified areas for improvement. The coaches had an inconsistent understanding of biomechanics theory and the support a biomechanist could provide in the training environment, while it was acknowledged that biomechanists needed to improve their communication skills. Coach and practitioner education were identified as where these improvements could be facilitated. There are many aspects of the coach-biomechanist relationship that could contribute to establishing optimal practice in the high-performance environment and enhance the transfer of knowledge from scientist to coach. This paper proposes a number of directions that could be taken.		[Waters, Amy; Panchuk, Derek; Dawson, Andrew] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Waters, Amy; Phillips, Elissa; Panchuk, Derek] Australian Inst Sport, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Waters, Amy] Australian Inst Sport, POB 176, Belconnen, ACT 2616, Australia								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000487058500003	19	Article; Article		
J	Colyer, Steffi L.; Graham-Smith, Philip; Salo, Aki I. T.								Associations between ground reaction force waveforms and sprint start performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	5			658	666		10.1177/1747954119874887			OCT 2019	2019	Ground reaction forces produced on the blocks determine an athlete's centre of mass motion during the sprint start, which is crucial to sprint performance. This study aimed to understand how force waveforms are associated with better sprint start performance. Fifty-seven sprinters (from junior to world elite) performed a series of block starts during which the ground reaction forces produced by the legs and arms were separately measured. Statistical parametric mapping (linear regression) revealed specific phases of these waveforms where forces were associated with average horizontal external power. Better performances were achieved by producing higher forces and directing the force vector more horizontally during the initial parts of the block phase (17-34% and 5-37%, respectively). During the mid-push (around the time of rear block exit: similar to 54% of the block push), magnitudes of front block force differentiated performers, but orientation did not. Consequently, the ability to sustain high forces during the transition from bilateral to unilateral pushing was a performance-differentiating factor. Better athletes also exhibited a higher ratio of forces on the front block in the latter parts of unilateral pushing (81-92% of the block push), which seemed to allow these athletes to exit the blocks with lower centre of mass projection angles. Training should reflect these kinetic requirements, but also include technique-based aspects to increase both force production and orientation capacities. Specific training focused on enhancing anteroposterior force production during the transition between double- to single-leg propulsion could be beneficial for overall sprint start performance.		[Colyer, Steffi L.; Salo, Aki I. T.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Colyer, Steffi L.; Salo, Aki I. T.] Univ Bath, CAMERA Ctr Anal Mot Entertainment Res & Applicat, Bath, Avon, England; [Graham-Smith, Philip] Aspire Acad, Doha, Qatar; [Salo, Aki I. T.] KIHU Res Inst Olymp Sports, Rautpohjankatu 6, Jyvaskyla 40700, Finland; [Salo, Aki I. T.] KIHU Res Inst Olymp Sports, Rautpohjankatu 6, Jyvaskyla 40700, Finland								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000487058500007	22	Article; Article		
J	Koh, Koon Teck; Kokkonen, Marja; Law, Heng Rang Bryan								Coaches' implementation strategies in providing social support to Singaporean university athletes: A case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	5			681	693		10.1177/1747954119876099			OCT 2019	2019	Coaches are effective providers of social support to their athletes. Although sport-specific measures of social support have been developed to better understand athletes' perceptions of available support, limited amount of research has addressed how sport coaches implement specific social support strategies. The purpose of this study was to examine university coaches' implementation strategies in providing various forms of social support to their athletes. A total of eight sport coaches from team and individual sports (four from each sport) were purposefully selected for this study. Coaches were individually interviewed. The interview transcripts were analysed using a thematic analysis. The results revealed that coaches from different sports shared similar strategies across emotional, esteem, informational and tangible dimensions, but with some distinguishable differences in the way these strategies were implemented. In documenting the lived experiences of sport coaches, key strategies valued highly among these coaches were highlighted, providing important implications for coaches to know how to incorporate these strategies into their coaching practice to better support athletes' well-being and improve the quality of coaching. The findings also provide an implementation framework of social support that emphasizes key strategies for coaches to focus on in their coaching approaches.		[Koh, Koon Teck; Law, Heng Rang Bryan] Nanyang Technol Univ, Singapore, Singapore; [Kokkonen, Marja] Univ Jyvaskyla, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Koh, Koon Teck] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Dept, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000487058500010	48	Article; Article		
J	Csato, Laszlo								UEFA Champions League Entry Has Not Satisfied Strategyproofness in Three Seasons								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	7			975	981		10.1177/1527002519833091			OCT 2019	2019	This article investigates the qualification for the Union of European Football Association (UEFA) Champions League (CL), the most prestigious club competition in European football, with respect to the theoretical property of strategyproofness. We find that in three seasons (2015-2016, 2016-2017, and 2017-2018), the UEFA Europa League titleholder might have been better off by losing its match against the CL titleholder in their domestic championship. A straightforward solution is suggested in order to avoid the occurrence of this paradox. The use of an incentive compatible rule would have a real effect on the qualification in these three seasons of the UEFA CL.		[Csato, Laszlo] Hungarian Acad Sci MTA SZTAKI, Inst Comp Sci & Control, Res Grp Operat Res & Decis Syst, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Hungarian Acad Sci MTA SZTAKI, Inst Comp Sci & Control, Res Grp Operat Res & Decis Syst, Lab Engn & Management Intelligence, Budapest, Hungary; [Csato, Laszlo] Corvinus Univ Budapest BCE, Dept Operat Res & Actuarial Sci, Budapest, Hungary								31							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000483604900005	9	Article; Article		
J	Menickelli, Justin; Cooper, Christopher A.; Withnall, Chris; Wonnacottc, Michael								Analysis and comparison of lateral head impacts using various golf discs and a Hybrid III head form.								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	3			340	350		10.1080/14763141.2019.1656769			MAR 16 2022	2022	The potential for head injuries from discs specifically designed for the sport of disc golf has increased as more disc golf courses are constructed in municipal parks where there is an inherent risk to park users of being struck by a golf disc. This study investigated the potential for head injury of various golf discs used in the sport of disc golf at 18 m/s (40?mph) and 27 m/s (60?mph) using a Hybrid III head form. A matrix of eight modern golf discs were tested to determine if velocity, mass, disc type, or flexibility has a significant effect on the potential for head injury as indicated by peak linear acceleration, peak angular acceleration, Head Injury Criteria (HIC) and Severity Index (SI) values. Regression analyses indicated peak linear acceleration, peak rotational acceleration, HIC, and SI varied by velocity, mass, type, and flexibility. The highest mean linear and rotational acceleration results, 38.5?g and 2512?rad/s(2) respectively, both associated with a less than 10% likelihood of sustaining a concussion. The findings should be of interest to both researchers and practitioners who seek to balance use and safety of public parks.		[Menickelli, Justin] Western Carolina Univ, Sch Teaching & Learning, Cullowhee, NC 28723 USA; [Cooper, Christopher A.] Western Carolina Univ, Dept Polit Sci & Publ Affairs, Cullowhee, NC 28723 USA; [Withnall, Chris; Wonnacottc, Michael] Biokinet & Associates Ltd, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Menickelli, Justin] Western Carolina Univ, Sch Teaching & Learning, Cullowhee, NC 28723 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000489530600001	10	Article; Article		
J	Maas, Ellen; Vanwanseele, Benedicte								Changes in running kinematics and kinetics after a 12-week running program for beginners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	2			201	211		10.1080/14763141.2019.1651896			FEB 7 2022	2022	The effect of running training on running kinematics and kinetics in novice runners has not yet been investigated. Previous studies have shown that novice runners are less economical and more prone to injury compared to well-trained runners. Since running economy (RE) and running injury risk have been associated with biomechanical variables that may be trainable, the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of a 12-week training program for beginners on running kinematics and kinetics. It was hypothesised that participants would evolve towards running kinematics and kinetics that have previously been associated with better RE and lower injury risk. 27 participants underwent a full-body, three-dimensional running analysis before and after a 12-week running program. Outcome variables included peak joint angles, joint moments, and ground reaction forces (GRF) in three planes. After training, hip external rotation moment increased significantly with 0.01?Nm/kg. Peak vertical GRF decreased with 0.9?N/kg (4.05%). There were no significant changes in peak joint angles. In conclusion, results show that a 12-week running program for beginners aimed to increase running endurance does not lead to changes in running kinematics or kinetics that have previously been associated with better RE and lower injury risk.		[Maas, Ellen; Vanwanseele, Benedicte] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Biomed Sci Grp, Leuven, Belgium; Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Maas, Ellen] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Biomed Sci Grp, Leuven, Belgium								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000488377400001	26	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Kym J.; Chapman, Dale W.; Phillips, Elissa J.; Ball, Nick B.								Measurement bias in estimates of system power during a vertical jump								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	2			226	238		10.1080/14763141.2019.1649715			FEB 7 2022	2022	This investigation sought to quantify the level of measurement agreement in system force, velocity and power values derived across three commonly applied assessment techniques during a countermovement jump (CMJ). Twenty-five male national representative athletes completed three CMJs under unloaded (0%(1RM)) and loaded (40%(1RM)) jump conditions. Associated values of force, velocity and power were captured simultaneously from either a linear optical encoder (LOE) or force plate (FP) and then compared to the gold-standard reference values derived from a combined force plate and three-dimensional motion capture system (FPMC). The LOE significantly (p < 0.001) overestimated and failed to meet the minimum level of relatedness (<0.80) for measures of peak velocity, peak force, peak power and mean power across both conditions compared to the FPMC reference values. A reduction in measurement dispersion and bias was, however, evident during the loaded condition. The FP significantly (p < 0.05) underestimated mean and peak power across both conditions, yet measurement bias and dispersion remained consistent. These findings highlight a disparity in measurement agreement in force, velocity and power values across alternative assessment techniques and loads. Such variance in measurement agreement will uniquely alter derived force-velocity profiles, and thus the prescription of training loads to maximise system power during unrestricted CMJs.		[Williams, Kym J.] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Strength & Conditioning, Bruce, Australia; [Williams, Kym J.; Chapman, Dale W.; Ball, Nick B.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bruce, Australia; [Williams, Kym J.] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Educ Psychol & Social Work, Bedford Pk, SA, Australia; [Chapman, Dale W.] New South Wales Inst Sport, Dept Physiol & Nutr, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Phillips, Elissa J.] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Movement Sci, Bruce, Australia; [Williams, Kym J.] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Strength & Conditioning, Bruce, Australia; [Williams, Kym J.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bruce, Australia; [Williams, Kym J.] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Educ Psychol & Social Work, Bedford Pk, SA, Australia								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000488377700001	38	Article; Article		
J	Gonjo, Tomohiro; Kishimoto, Taichi; Sanders, Ross; Saito, Mayumi; Takagi, Hideki								Front crawl body roll characteristics in a Paralympic medallist and national level swimmers with unilateral arm amputation								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	3			323	339		10.1080/14763141.2019.1654536			MAR 16 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to establish the asymmetry and body wave characteristics related to shoulder, hip, knee, and ankle roll in unilateral arm amputee swimmers. Three unilateral arm amputee swimmers, including one Paralympic medallist (swimmer A), volunteered in this study. They conducted two 10-15 s front crawl tests with sub-maximum and maximum speeds in a flume. Shoulder, hip, knee, and ankle roll amplitude and progression of a torsional body wave was quantified using a motion capture system and a Fourier analysis. Swimmer A showed 50% higher stroke frequency than the other swimmers. Swimmers achieved larger shoulder roll amplitude towards the affected than the unaffected side by 19-89%. Swimmer A showed body wave velocity slowing down when it travelled caudally, while national level swimmers presented increasing wave velocity, suggesting that swimmer A had a less effective kicking than the other swimmers. In conclusion, the technique of the unilateral arm amputee swimmers was characterised by a large shoulder roll angle towards the affected side. The Paralympic medallist had larger shoulder roll asymmetry and less effective kicking than the other swimmers and yet achieved higher swimming speed because of his high stroke frequency.		[Gonjo, Tomohiro] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Gonjo, Tomohiro; Kishimoto, Taichi; Saito, Mayumi; Takagi, Hideki] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Sanders, Ross] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Gonjo, Tomohiro] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487880300001	29	Article; Article		
J	Vukovic, Marko; Kukic, Filip; Cvorovic, Aleksandar; Jankovic, Dunja; Prcic, Iva; Dopsaj, Milivoj								Relations Between Frequency and Volume of Leisure-Time Physical Activity and Body Composition in Police Officers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			47	54		10.1080/02701367.2019.1646391			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: Leisure-time physical activity (LTPA) has always been very important for the maintenance and improvement of body composition. Thus, the aim of this study was to examine if the frequency and volume of LTPA (F-LTPA and V-LTPA) were related to indices of body composition in police officers. Method: A physical activity questionnaire was used to collect data from 346 male police officers regarding their F-LTPA and V-LTPA. They were divided into four groups relative to the frequency, and four groups relative to the volume of LTPA, labeled as inactive, seldom active, moderately active and very active for each LTPA indicator. Percent body fat (PBF), skeletal muscle mass (PSMM), skeletal muscle mass index (SMMI) and body fat mass index (BFMI) were assessed. Correlation analyses investigated associations and multivariate analysis of variance analysed the differences between body composition and LTPA, with significance set at p Results: The F-LTPA correlated (p < .001) to PBF (r = -0.306), BFMI (r = -0.289), PSMM (r = 0.309) and SMMI (r = -0.138, p = .010). The V-LTPA correlated (p < .001) to PBF (r = -0.370), BFMI (r = -0.348), PSMM (r = 0.311), and SMMI (r = -0.106, p = .049). The differences that occurred between more and less active police officers, whereby those who were very active had lower values of PBF and BFMI and higher values of PSMM and SMMI regardless of the frequency and volume of LTPA. PBF and PSMM were more affected by LTPA than SMMI and BFMI. Conclusions: F-LTPA and V-LTPA were considered important for police officers, whereby F-LTPA was related to muscle and V-LTPA to fat parameters of body composition.		[Vukovic, Marko; Dopsaj, Milivoj] Univ Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia; [Kukic, Filip; Cvorovic, Aleksandar; Jankovic, Dunja; Prcic, Iva] Abu Dhabi Police, Abu Dhabi, U Arab Emirates; [Dopsaj, Milivoj] South Ural State Univ, Chelyabinsk, Russia; [Kukic, Filip] Porsche Ctr, Airport Rd,Apartment 1205,POB 253, Abu Dhabi, U Arab Emirates								33							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000485386600001	30	Article; Article		
J	Bonney, Nathan; Berry, Jason; Ball, Kevin; Larkin, Paul								The Development of a Field-Based Kicking Assessment to Evaluate Australian Football Kicking Proficiency								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			73	82		10.1080/02701367.2019.1647331			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: In Australian Football (AF), the ability to proficiently kick the ball is a critical skill and has been shown to be advantageous to a team's successful performance; however, a valid and reliable match referenced kicking assessment remains absent. Therefore, the aim of this study was to develop a valid and reliable AF kicking proficiency assessment comparative to match play kicking performance. Method: Youth male Australian Football players (n = 251) from different stages within the AF talent pathway were recruited. The developed AFFB-DKA (Australian Football Field-Based-Dynamic Kicking Assessment) considered particular constraints of match play kicking demands such as kick type, distance, delivery, and locomotion of the player receiving the ball. In total, 14 kicks were completed during the test. Validity (i.e., content, logical and construct) and reliability (i.e., test re-test) were assessed. Results: Findings indicate the kicking test can distinguish across and between age (i.e., U14; U16; U18) and skill groups (i.e., club; sub-elite; elite). The timeframe between U14 and U16 was identified as a potential key period where kicking skill acquisition may be most impressionable; however, further research is recommended to support this. Conclusion: The developed AFFB-DKA is the first Australian Football specific kicking assessment to consider and apply match play kicking constraints to make a more representative, valid and reliable assessment.		[Bonney, Nathan; Ball, Kevin; Larkin, Paul] Victoria Univ, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Berry, Jason] IMG Acad, Bradenton, FL USA; [Larkin, Paul] Maribrynong Sports Acad, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bonney, Nathan] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic 3011, Australia								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000485387800001	38	Article; Article		
J	Haydon, David S.; Pinder, Ross A.; Grimshaw, Paul N.; Robertson, William S. P.								Wheelchair Rugby chair configurations: an individual, Robust design approach								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	1			104	119		10.1080/14763141.2019.1649451			JAN 2 2022	2022	Prescription of wheelchair rugby chairs is difficult due to the range of athlete impairment types and severities in the sport, difficulty in adjusting wheelchair settings, and assessing on-court performance. Currently, elite players rely on experiential knowledge (personal, coaches, and support staff) to select an appropriate set-up. Technological advancements, such as with inertial measurement units and processing algorithms, and representative testing approaches, has improved the potential for assessing set-ups at an individual level. An orthogonal design approach was implemented using an adjustable wheelchair to investigate the effect of seat height, seat depth, seat angle, and tyre pressure on performance, mobility, and propulsion kinematics. Six elite wheelchair rugby players completed testing in nine individually tailored wheelchair set-ups while monitoring both quantitative and qualitative measures of performance. From this testing, a recommended set-up was compared with the current set-up for each individual. A single case-study approach shows how the assessment method identifies parameter settings that can potentially improve performance. Three of six players reported a blind preference for the recommended set-up over the current set-up, whilst remaining players often displayed similar performance between their current and recommended set-ups. This approach can improve upon the current prescription process for rugby wheelchairs.		[Haydon, David S.; Grimshaw, Paul N.; Robertson, William S. P.] Univ Adelaide, Sch Mech Engn, Fac Engn Comp & Math Sci, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Pinder, Ross A.] Paralymp Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Haydon, David S.] Univ Adelaide, Sch Mech Engn, Fac Engn Comp & Math Sci, Adelaide, SA, Australia								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484705000001	34	Article; Article		
J	van der Kruk, Eline; Reijne, Marco M.; de Laat, Bjorn; Veeger, DirkJan (H. E. J. )								Push-off forces in elite short-track speed skating								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	5			527	538		10.1080/14763141.2018.1441898			SEP 3 2019	2019	This study performed an analysis of the push-off forces of elite-short-track speed skaters using a new designed instrumented short-track speed skate with the aim to improve short-track skating performance. Four different skating strokes were distinguished for short-track speed skaters at speed. The strokes differed in stroke time, force level in both normal and lateral directions, and the centre of pressure (COP) on the blade. Within the homogeneous group of male elite speed skaters (N = 6), diversity of execution of the force patterns in the four phases of skating was evident, while skating at the same velocities. The male participants (N = 6) with a better personal record (PR) kept the COP more to the rear of their blades while hanging into the curve (r = 0.82, p < 0.05), leaving the curve (r = 0.86, p < 0.05), and entering the straight (r = 0.76, p < 0.10). Furthermore, the male skaters with a better PR showed a trend of a lower lateral peak force while entering the curve (r = 0.74, p < 0.10). Females showed a trend towards applying higher body weight normalised lateral forces than the males, while skating at imposed lower velocities.		[van der Kruk, Eline; Reijne, Marco M.; Veeger, DirkJan (H. E. J. )] Delft Univ Technol, Dept Biomech Engn, Delft, Netherlands; [de Laat, Bjorn] Dutch Natl Speed Skating Federat, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Veeger, DirkJan (H. E. J. )] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van der Kruk, Eline] Delft Univ Technol, Dept Biomech Engn, Delft, Netherlands								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475439300006	6	Article; Article		
J	Van Alsenoy, Ken; Thomson, Athol; Burnett, Angus								Reliability and validity of the Zebris FDM-THQ instrumented treadmill during running trials								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	5			501	514		10.1080/14763141.2018.1452966			SEP 3 2019	2019	Little is known about the reliability, validity and smallest detectable differences of selected kinetic and temporal variables recorded by the Zebris FDM-THQ instrumented treadmill especially during running. Twenty male participants (age = 31.9 years (+/- 5.6), height = 1.81 m (+/- 0.08), mass = 80.2 kg (+/- 9.5), body mass index = 24.53 kg/m(2) (+/- 2.53)) walked (5 km/h) and ran (10 and 15 km/h) on an instrumented treadmill, wearing running shoes fitted with Pedar-X insoles. A test-double retest protocol was conducted over two consecutive days. Maximal vertical force (F-max), contact time (CT) and flight time (FT) data from 10 consecutive steps were collected. Within- and between-day reliability, smallest detectable differences (SDD) and validity (95% limits of agreement (LOA)) were calculated. ICC values for the Zebris for Fmax were acceptable (ICC >= 0.7) while CT and FT reliability indices were predominantly good (ICC >= 0.8) to excellent (ICC >= 0.9). The Zebris significantly underestimated Fmax when compared with the Pedar-X. The 95% LOA increased with speed. SDD ranged between 96 N and 169 N for Fmax, 0.017s and 0.055s for CT and 0.021s and 0.026s for FT. In conclusion, Zebris reliability was acceptable to excellent for the variables examined, but inferior in comparison with Pedar-X. With increased running speeds, a bias effect (underestimation) existed for the Zebris compared with Pedar-X.		[Van Alsenoy, Ken; Thomson, Athol; Burnett, Angus] Aspetar Orthopead & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Burnett, Angus] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup Campus, Joondalup, Australia; [Van Alsenoy, Ken] Aspetar Orthopead & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar								40							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475439300004	42	Article; Article		
J	Ramsey, Dan K.; Crotin, Ryan L.								Stride length: the impact on propulsion and bracing ground reaction force in overhand throwing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	5			553	570		10.1080/14763141.2018.1442872			SEP 3 2019	2019	Propulsion and bracing ground reaction force (GRF) in overhand throwing are integral in propagating joint reaction kinetics and ball velocity, yet how stride length effects drive (hind) and stride (lead) leg GRF profiles remain unknown. Using a randomised crossover design, 19 pitchers (15 collegiate and 4 high school) were assigned to throw 2 simulated 80-pitch games at +/- 25% of their desired stride length. An integrated motion capture system with two force plates and radar gun tracked each throw. Vertical and anterior-posterior GRF was normalised then impulse was derived. Paired t-tests identified whether differences between conditions were significant. Late in single leg support, peak propulsion GRF was statistically greater for the drive leg with increased stride. Stride leg peak vertical GRF in braking occurred before acceleration with longer strides, but near ball release with shorter strides. Greater posterior shear GRF involving both legs demonstrated increased braking with longer strides. Conversely, decreased drive leg propulsion reduced both legs' braking effects with shorter strides. Results suggest an interconnection between normalised stride length and GRF application in propulsion and bracing. This work has shown stride length to be an important kinematic factor affecting the magnitude and timing of external forces acting upon the body.		[Ramsey, Dan K.] DYouville Coll, Sch Hlth Profess, Dept Hlth Profess Educ, Buffalo, NY 14201 USA; [Crotin, Ryan L.] Los Angeles Angels Anaheim, Anaheim, CA USA; [Crotin, Ryan L.] SUNY Buffalo, Sch Publ Hlth & Hlth Profess, Dept Exercise & Nutr Sci, Buffalo, NY USA; [Ramsey, Dan K.] DYouville Coll, Sch Hlth Profess, Dept Hlth Profess Educ, Buffalo, NY 14201 USA								19							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475439300008	34	Article; Article		
J	Nawayseh, Naser								Transmission of vibration from a vibrating plate to the head of standing people								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	5			482	500		10.1080/14763141.2018.1434233			SEP 3 2019	2019	Little is known about the transmission of vibration to the head when using whole-body vibration (WBV) training machines. This paper investigates the effect of frequency and posture on the transmission of vibration from a vibrating plate to the head of standing people. Nine male participants were exposed to vertical vibration at nine frequencies in the range of 17-46 Hz and vibration acceleration in the range of 7.85-18.64 m/s(2) (peak). The participants adopted four standing postures described as standing with locked knee (LK), bent knee (BK), one leg (OL), and one foot to the front and the other to the back (FB). The transmissibility to the head differed among postures (t-test, p < 0.05) and was greatest with the FB posture and smallest with the BK posture. The transmissibility to the head decreased with increasing the frequency (t-test, p < 0.05) but the extent of the decrease depended on the adopted posture. This frequency-posture interaction effect on the transmissibility should be considered when designing a training program. The data will be useful for developing standards/protocols that govern the use of WBV machines as well as for building human body models that can predict potential risks arising from using WBV machines.		[Nawayseh, Naser] Univ Sharjah, Coll Engn, Mech Engn Dept, Sharjah, U Arab Emirates; [Nawayseh, Naser] Univ Sharjah, Coll Engn, Mech Engn Dept, Sharjah, U Arab Emirates								23							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475439300003	38	Article; Article		
J	Tjelta, Leif I.								Three Norwegian brothers all European 1500 m champions: What is the secret?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	5			694	700	1747954119872321	10.1177/1747954119872321			OCT 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to analyse the performance development and training structure of three Norwegian brothers, HI, FI and JI who are all European 1500 m champions, and to examine to what extent training, environment and family support has been decisive in their development. Their performance development and training from the age of 13 was examined through analysis of the Norwegian Athletic Federation (Norges Friidrettsforbund) all-time best results for boys in 800 m and 1500 m; analysis of training diaries; observation of training sessions; and dialogue with the three runners, their father and coach and their mother. All three were very physically active from a young age, and they have taken part in different sports. In the preparation period leading up to the 2018 and 2019 seasons, these three athletes ran an average of 140-160 km center dot week(-1), with 23-25% at and above anaerobic threshold pace. Training intensity was monitored and controlled via blood lactate measurements taken during all interval sessions. Throughout childhood and adolescence, the boys were highly motivated and strongly encouraged to take part in sport and training by their close family. All the three were coached by their father. An active childhood, a gradual progression in training volume, strong family support, mental toughness, a high volume of training at and above anaerobic threshold, and mindful monitoring and regulation of training intensity have brought these brothers to a top international level in distance running.		[Tjelta, Leif I.] Univ Stavanger, Dept Educ & Sports Sci, N-4036 Stavanger, Norway; [Tjelta, Leif I.] Univ Stavanger, Dept Educ & Sports Sci, N-4036 Stavanger, Norway								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000485079800001	33	Article; Article		
J	Snyder, Natalie; Cinelli, Michael								Comparing Balance Control Between Soccer Players and Non-Athletes During a Dynamic Lower Limb Reaching Task								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			166	171		10.1080/02701367.2019.1649356			JAN 2 2020	2020	Background: Balance control is an essential element of locomotion that enhances biomotor abilities and physical performance. Individuals with extensive soccer experience display superior static single leg balance control compared to athletes of other sports as well as non-athletes. However, during a match, players often encounter greater challenges to single leg balance that require rapid decision-making skills and dynamic stability. Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine if individuals with extensive soccer training demonstrate superior single-leg balance control compared to non-athletes during a dynamic lower limb reaching task. Method: 22 varsity soccer players were matched with 21 non-athlete controls. Single-leg balance control was assessed during a Go/No-Go lower limb reaching task. Centre of pressure displacement (dCOP) was measured for both the dominant and non-dominant feet and compared between groups. Results: Soccer players displayed reduced dCOP during All Go trials compared to non-athletes, particularly in the medial-lateral plane. Additionally, soccer players displayed reduced anterior-posterior dCOP during Go/No-Go trials compared to non-athletes, particularly on their dominant foot. Conclusion: Athletes with soccer-specific training demonstrate improved executive control and use of proprioceptive information, which results in an improved ability to maintain single-support balance and corral COP during a dynamic visuomotor lower limb-reaching task. As such, balance training may be a useful addition to athlete training regimes to improve sport-specific performance. Future research would compare these results to athletes of other sports to explore balance control during a visuomotor reaching task and how it may differ based on sport training history.		[Snyder, Natalie; Cinelli, Michael] Wilfrid Laurier Univ, Waterloo, ON, Canada; [Cinelli, Michael] Wilfrid Laurier Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 75 Univ Ave W, Waterloo, ON, Canada								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484917400001	28	Article; Article		
J	Akinci, Buket; Yeldan, Ipek; Celik, Selda; Satman, Ilhan								Physical Activity Indicators, Metabolic Biomarkers, and Comorbidity in Type 2 Diabetes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			690	698		10.1080/02701367.2019.1645269			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: This study aimed (1) to compare physical activity (PA) indicators, metabolic biomarkers, and comorbidity, (2) to investigate the relationship between PA indicators and metabolic biomarkers, comorbidity and (3) to identify barriers to PA in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) who are using oral hypoglycaemic agent (OHA) or combined OHA and insulin (OHAiN). Methods: Sixty-one patients were classified as patients using only OHA or combined OHAiN. Metabolic biomarkers (waist-to-hip ratio, body mass index (BMI), lipid profile, glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), fasting blood glucose, comorbidity and PA indicators (self-reported PA, number of steps (NOS), 6-minute walking distance (6MWD)) were assessed. PA perceptions and reasons for inactivity were questioned. Results: The comorbidity (p = .013), low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (p = .026), total cholesterol (p = .008) and HbA1c (p = .020) were higher and PA level was lower (p = .007) in the OHAiN group. NOS was positively correlated with high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (p = .037) and negatively correlated with BMI (p = .007). 6MWD was negatively correlated with BMI (p = .014) and comorbidity (p = .004) in the OHA group. BMI was a significant predictor of NOS (adjusted R-2 = 0.242) and comorbidity for 6MWD (adjusted R-2 = 0.250) in the OHA group. The majority of the patients (OHA = 34.3%, OHAiN = 42.3%) reported "lack of time" as the most common barrier to PA. Conclusions: This study showed that patients on OHAiN have lower PA levels, poorer metabolic profiles, and higher comorbidity rates than OHA users. PA indicators were related with some metabolic biomarkers and comorbidity in only OHA users. The most common reason for inactivity was "the lack of time" in both groups.		[Akinci, Buket] Biruni Univ, Topkapi Istanbul, Turkey; [Yeldan, Ipek] Istanbul Univ Cerrahpasa, Istanbul, Turkey; [Celik, Selda] Saglik Bilimleri Univ, Istanbul, Turkey; [Satman, Ilhan] Istanbul Univ, Istanbul Med Fac, Istanbul, Turkey; [Satman, Ilhan] Hlth Inst Turkey, Istanbul, Turkey; [Akinci, Buket] Biruni Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Div Physiotherapy & Rehabil, 10 Yil Caddesi Protokol Yolu 45, TR-34010 Topkapi Istanbul, Turkey								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484916300001	35	Article; Article		
J	Timler, Amanda; McIntyre, Fleur; Bulsara, Caroline; Rose, Elizabeth; Hands, Beth								The Influence of Motor Competence on Adolescent Identity Health: A Mixed Method Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			1	14		10.1080/02701367.2019.1643821			JAN 2 2020	2020	Our identity develops with age, and many impacting factors will determine whether it is healthy or unhealthy. A particularly fragile phase of identity development occurs during adolescence when level of motor competence may be influential, yet is rarely considered. Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine male and female adolescent's perceptions towards their motor competence and identity development. In-depth information was also collected to understand what factors are important towards identity development during adolescence. Method: An explanatory sequential mixed methods study was used to examine the extent motor competence influenced the health of an adolescent's identity. A sample of 160 adolescents (male n = 103, female n = 57, M-age = 14.45 SD = .75) completed the Adolescent Motor Competence Questionnaire (AMCQ) and the Assessment of Identity Development in Adolescence (AIDA). The AMCQ scores were used to group the participants into high (HMC = > 83) and low (LMC = < 83) motor competence. Results: More females had less-healthy identities than males and those with LMC had less-healthy identities than those with HMC. Subsamples of 17 participants were interviewed in order to explain these results. The most at risk group, females with LMC, identified negative peer comparisons, poor social support and higher stress levels to achieve academic performance as key challenges. Conclusions. Well-designed support services for those with LMC, especially for the females should incorporate activities to develop individual competency and close friendships.		[Timler, Amanda; McIntyre, Fleur; Bulsara, Caroline; Rose, Elizabeth; Hands, Beth] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Timler, Amanda] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Inst Hlth Res, 19 Mouat St POB 1225, Fremantle, WA 6959, Australia								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484915800001	65	Article; Article		
J	Szumilewicz, Anna; Hopkins, Will G.; Dornowski, Marcin; Piernicka, Magdalena								Exercise Professionals Improve Their Poor Skills in Contracting Pelvic-Floor Muscles: A Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			641	650		10.1080/02701367.2019.1642993			OCT 2 2019	2019	A quick, well-timed pelvic-floor muscle contraction during physical effort is recommended for active women to prevent urine leakage. Purpose: We address two research questions: how well do future female exercise professionals contract the pelvic-floor muscles, and whether the biofeedback session is necessary to train them to contract pelvic-floor muscles? Method: Participants were 84 nulliparous future exercise professionals (age 23 +/- 3 years, mean +/- SD), randomly allocated into biofeedback (n = 27), usual-advice (n = 26), and control (no advice, n = 21) groups. Contraction of pelvic-floor muscles on a 4-point scale (1 = incorrect through 4 = correct) was assessed in all groups by surface electromyography (sEMG) with a vaginal probe before and after 6 weeks of intervention. Results: In pretest, almost one in five participants (17%) could not activate the pelvic floor and less than half of them (45%) presented correct technique. The technique score for the three groups was 3.1 +/- 1.1 (mean +/- SD). After training, both intervention groups presented better technique score by 0.6 (90% confidence limits +/- 0.5) relative to the control group, and two-thirds (65%) of the intervention groups presented the correct technique. Conclusions: Future exercise professionals displayed poor skills in contracting pelvic-floor muscles. Both training interventions (with and without biofeedback) were effective for this study group.		[Szumilewicz, Anna; Dornowski, Marcin; Piernicka, Magdalena] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Ul Kazimierza Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Hopkins, Will G.] Victoria Univ, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Szumilewicz, Anna] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Ul Kazimierza Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484916100001	27	Article; Article		
J	Klatt, Stefanie; Noel, Benjamin; Musculus, Lisa; Werner, Karsten; Laborde, Sylvain; Lopes, Mariana Calabria; Greco, Pablo J.; Memmert, Daniel; Raab, Markus								Creative and Intuitive Decision-Making Processes: A Comparison of Brazilian and German Soccer Coaches and Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			651	665		10.1080/02701367.2019.1642994			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: The concepts of creativity and intuition have been well studied in isolation, but less is known about their distinctive contributions to option generation in decision making. Method: We examined the relation between creative and intuitive decision making in two studies-one involving coaches and one involving soccer players-using video footage of real soccer matches. Additionally, we analyzed whether this relation is culture generic or culture specific by conducting matched cross-cultural studies in a European and a South American country. Results: In Study 1, results indicate a conceptual overlap of creativity and intuition for Brazilian and German soccer coaches. Furthermore, coaches did not differ in their evaluation of creative and intuitive actions of players of both cultures. In Study 2, we found that for both subsamples the total number of generated options was positively correlated with the quality of the first and the final option and that the quality of players' first (intuitive) option was higher than that of options generated later. Moreover, results indicate a positive correlation between a player's creativity score and the quality of the first generated option for the whole sample. Conclusion: Overall, our findings provide meaningful information regarding athletes' and coaches' option-generation processes in decision making in complex team sports.		[Klatt, Stefanie; Noel, Benjamin; Musculus, Lisa; Laborde, Sylvain; Memmert, Daniel; Raab, Markus] German Sport Univ Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Werner, Karsten] Univ Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany; [Lopes, Mariana Calabria] Univ Fed Vicosa, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Greco, Pablo J.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Raab, Markus] London South Bank Univ, London, England; [Klatt, Stefanie] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sport Informat, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484915100001	41	Article; Article		
J	Unlu, Huseyin; Filiz, Bijen								Work Ability of the Turkish Physical Education Teachers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			666	677		10.1080/02701367.2019.1642995			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: Work ability of physical education teachers (PETs) is important to promote physical activity and effective teaching process. However, there was a limited study. In this study, work ability of the Turkish PETs was investigated. Method: The mixed methods were used. The study group consisted of 407 (M-age = 36.52 +/- 6.9) PETs. "The Work Ability Questionnaire" was used as a data collection tool. Descriptive statistic, independent sample t-test, analysis of variance (ANOVA), multiple regression analysis, and chi-square were used in the analysis of qualitative data, and content analysis was used in the analysis of quantitative data. Result: The PETs were satisfied with their current job, and while there was a significant difference according to the gender (p < .05), a significant difference was not detected according to the age (p > .05). Furthermore, the PETs had a high work ability; when the comparison according to the gender and age significant differences was found (p < .05). Also, it was found that job satisfaction predicted physical fitness, work ability, work motivation, and work atmosphere of the PETs (R-2 = .463, F = 30.945, p < .05). Some of the PETs had a physical disease affecting their work abilities, and most of the PETs had musculoskeletal and respiratory diseases. In the comparison, according to gender, a significant difference was not found in terms of injury or disease (p > .05). Moreover, health problems were seen as the main problems which will threaten for the future work abilities. Conclusion: Higher work ability was associated with positive outcomes and higher job satisfaction. The healthy PETs had more work abilities.		[Unlu, Huseyin] Aksaray Univ, Aksaray, Turkey; [Filiz, Bijen] Afyon Kocatepe Univ, Afyon, Turkey; [Unlu, Huseyin] Aksaray Univ, Spor Bilimleri Fak, TR-68100 Aksaray, Turkey								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484914200001	58	Article; Article		
J	Mon-Lopez, Daniel; Zakynthinaki, Maria S.; Alberto Cordente, Carlos; Garcia-Gonzalez, Jorge								The Relationship Between Pistol Olympic Shooting Performance, Handgrip and Shoulder Abduction Strength								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			39	46		10.2478/hukin-2019-0009			SEP 2019	2019	The ability to stabilize the gun, a crucial factor for performance in air pistol Olympic shooting, is thought to be strongly related to the muscular work of the shooter's shoulder and forearm. The objective of the present study was to confirm this relationship by analysing the influence of maximal finger flexor forces and maximal isometric shoulder force on performance in female air pistol shooting. Twenty-three female pistol shooters participated in the study. Handgrip and shoulder force data were recorded under competition conditions, during the official training time of national Spanish championships on the day previous to the competition and at the official training stands. Performance was measured as the total score of 40 shots at competition. Linear regressions between performance and age, weight, height, training experience, body mass index (BMI), mean and maximal finger flexor and shoulder forces were calculated. Significant correlations were found between performance and a) training hours b) peak finger flexor force relative to the BMI, and c) peak isometric force of the shoulder abduction relative to the BMI. The study concludes that there is a statistically significant correlation between performance and muscular forces exerted by the athletes relative to their BMI. Appropriate muscular strength training programs are therefore necessary in female air pistol Olympic shooting.		[Mon-Lopez, Daniel; Alberto Cordente, Carlos] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sports Dept, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, C Martin Fierro 7, E-28040 Madrid, Spain; [Zakynthinaki, Maria S.] Univ Appl Sci TEI Crete, Dept Elect, Khania 73134, Greece; [Garcia-Gonzalez, Jorge] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, Social Sci Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Mon-Lopez, Daniel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sports Dept, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, C Martin Fierro 7, E-28040 Madrid, Spain								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600004	22	Article; Article		
J	Rabbani, Alireza; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Kargarfard, Mehdi; Jahangiri, Saeid								Combined Small-Sided Game and High-Intensity Interval Training in Soccer Players: The Effect of Exercise Order								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			249	257		10.2478/hukin-2018-0092			SEP 2019	2019	The aim of the present study was to compare combined small-sided game (SSG) and high-intensity interval training (HIT) with different order. Twenty-one semi-professional soccer players were divided into two groups: SSG+HIT (n = 10) and HIT+SSG (n = 11), and underwent similar four-week training programs. Players completed the 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test IFT, (30-15(IFT)) before and after the experiment; maximum speed (V-IFT) was recorded. During the _ experiment, seven sessions of SSG (3 vs 3) and HIT (15 ''-15 '' with 95-100% V-IFT) were implemented. Weekly accumulated training loads for both groups during the experiment were similar. Moderate improvements in V-IFT were observed in both SSG+HIT (+6.2%, 90% confidence limits, [CL] 4.6; 7.7 and Effect Size, [ES] +0.96) and HIT+SSG (+6.9%, 90% CL 4.6; 9.3 and ES +0.97) groups. Between-group difference in changes of V-IFT was trivial (+0.7%, 90% CL -1.8; 3.3 and ES +0.11). Combining SSG and HIT in different order elicited the same enhancement in high-intensity intermittent performance in soccer players.		[Rabbani, Alireza; Kargarfard, Mehdi] Univ Isfahan, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Esfahan, Iran; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Delegacao Da Covilha, Portugal; [Jahangiri, Saeid] Islamic Azad Univ, Dept Math, Khomeinishahr Branch, Esfahan, Iran; [Rabbani, Alireza] Univ Isfahan, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Exercise Physiol, Esfahan, Iran								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600024	32	Article; Article		
J	Viseux, Frederic; Barbieri, Franck; Parreira, Rodolfo; Lemaire, Antoine; Villeneuve, Philippe; Leteneur, Sebastien								Less Than One Millimeter Under the Great Toe is Enough to Change Balance Ability in Elite Women Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			69	77		10.2478/hukin-2019-0024			SEP 2019	2019	Team handball is a complex intermittent sport game, which requires several motor abilities and effective postural control. Objective evaluation of stabilometric variables may be interesting to assess and improve functional parameters by postural control management. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the effects of a small additional thickness placed under the great toe (TUGT) on the Centre of Pressure (CoP) parameters in elite women handball players. Fourteen elite women handball players voluntarily participated in this study. Two conditions were compared: TUGT 0 (control) and TUGT 0.8 mm; four variables were computed from the CoP displacements. A paired T-test was performed for each variable. This study concludes that a low focal additional thickness placed under both great toes has an effect on the CoP measures used to assess postural control during an unperturbed stance. These results suggest that a low TUGT could contribute to a change in balance ability, and may be of clinical interest. This brings new perspectives in the management of athletes to prevent injury risk and optimize performance.		[Viseux, Frederic; Barbieri, Franck; Villeneuve, Philippe; Leteneur, Sebastien] UPHF, Lab Automat Mecan & Informat Ind & Humaine LAMIH, UMR CNRS 8201, F-59313 Valenciennes, France; [Viseux, Frederic; Lemaire, Antoine] CHV, CETD, F-59322 Valenciennes, France; [Viseux, Frederic; Parreira, Rodolfo; Villeneuve, Philippe] Posture Lab, F-75012 Paris, France; [Parreira, Rodolfo] Salgado Inst Integral Hlth UniFil, Residence Program Manipulat Complementary & Integ, Londrina, PR, Brazil; [Viseux, Frederic] UPHF, Lab Automat Mecan & Informat Ind & Humaine LAMIH, UMR CNRS 8201, F-59313 Valenciennes, France								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600007	61	Article; Article		
J	Gencay, Okkes Alpaslan; Baykara, Murat; Demirel, Adnan; Berk, Ejder; Gencay, Selcuk								The Acute Effects of High-Intensity Cycling Exercise on Arterial Stiffness in Adolescent Wrestlers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			99	107		10.2478/hukin-2018-0100			SEP 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to determine the acute effects of high-intensity cycling exercise on the variables of carotid artery compliance, distensibility and beta stiffness index in elite adolescent wrestlers. The subjects were elite athletes competing in national, European and World Championships, who attended a training camp in the province of Kahramanmaras organized by the Turkish Centre for Olympic Preparation. The study sample comprised 31 male elite wrestlers with a mean age of 15.90 +/- 0.87 years, body height of 165.97 +/- 9.7 cm and body mass of 66.3 +/- 18.45 kg. The arterial stiffness variables of the wrestlers were measured with high-resolution Doppler ultrasonography before and 5 min after 30 s of high-intensity cycling exercise (the Wingate Anaerobic Cycling test). The results showed a statistically significant correlation between mean power performance and carotid artery compliance at the 5th min after a single cycling sprint exercise (p < 0.05). No correlation was determined between peak power and the arterial stiffness variables (p > 0.05). The study results indicate that acute changes in arterial stiffness variables are associated with the performance level of high-intensity cycling exercise in a group of elite adolescent wrestlers.		[Gencay, Okkes Alpaslan; Gencay, Selcuk] Kahramanmaras Sutcu Imam Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Teaching, Kahramanmaras, Turkey; [Baykara, Murat] Kahramanmaras Sutcu Imam Univ, Fac Med, Dept Radiol, Kahramanmaras, Turkey; [Demirel, Adnan; Berk, Ejder] Kahramanmaras Sutcu Imam Univ, Fac Med, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Kahramanmaras, Turkey; [Gencay, Okkes Alpaslan] Kahramanmaras Sutcu Imam Univ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Avsar Yerleskesi, Kahramanmaras, Turkey								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600010	41	Article; Article		
J	Domanska-Senderowska, Daria; Szmigielska, Paulina; Snochowska, Aleksandra; Jastrzebski, Zbigniew; Jegier, Anna; Kiszalkiewicz, Justyna; Jastrzebska, Joanna; Pastuszak-Lewandoska, Dorota; Cieszczyk, Pawel; Suchanecka, Aleksandra; Wilk, Michal; Brzezianski, Michal; Brzezianska-Lasotal, Ewa								Relationships Between the Expression of the <i>ACTN3</i> Gene and Explosive Power of Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			79	87		10.2478/hukin-2019-0020			SEP 2019	2019	Muscle strength and maximal speed are factors determining athlete's results during competition. Their association with ACTN3 gene activity has been documented. The purpose of this study was the analysis of ACTN3 gene expression during a 2 month training cycle of soccer players and its correlation with the countermovement jump (CMJ) and squat jump (SJ). The study group consisted of 22 soccer players (aged 17-18). The study material included peripheral blood lymphocytes. The relative expression (RQ) of the ACTN3 gene was analyzed by qPCR and performed before and after the two-month training cycle. Before the training cycle low expression levels of ACTN3 (median RQ = 0.95) were observed, yet after the training cycle they were elevated (median RQ = 1.98) ( p = 0.003). There was an increase in performance of both jumps: SJ (p = 0.020) and CMJ (p = 0.012) at the end of the training cycle. A simultaneous increase in the ACTN3 gene expression level and height in both jump tests was observed in 73% of athletes (p > 0.05). There were no significant relationships between the ACTN3 gene expression level and the results of the CMJ and SJ. However, explosive strength is a complex feature shaped by many different factors and it could be the reason why we did not observe correlations between these variables.		[Domanska-Senderowska, Daria; Szmigielska, Paulina; Snochowska, Aleksandra; Kiszalkiewicz, Justyna; Pastuszak-Lewandoska, Dorota; Brzezianski, Michal; Brzezianska-Lasotal, Ewa] Med Univ Lodz, Dept Biomed & Genet, Lodz, Poland; [Jastrzebski, Zbigniew; Jastrzebska, Joanna; Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Culture, Gdansk, Poland; [Jegier, Anna] Med Univ Lodz, Dept Sport Med, Lodz, Poland; [Cieszczyk, Pawel] Mil Inst Hyg Epidemiol, Independent Lab Genet & Mol Biol, Warsaw, Poland; [Suchanecka, Aleksandra] Pomeranian Med Univ, Independent Lab Hlth Promot, Szczecin, Poland; [Wilk, Michal] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Inst Sport Sci, Katowice, Poland; [Domanska-Senderowska, Daria] Med Univ Lodz, Dept Mol Bases Med, Pomorska 251-C-5 St, PL-92213 Lodz, Poland								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600008	33	Article; Article		
J	Casamento-Moran, Agostina; Delms, Stefan; Park, Seoung Hoon; Yacoubi, Basma; Christou, Evangelos A.								Reaction to a Visual Stimulus: Anticipation with Steady and Dynamic Contractions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			17	27		10.2478/hukin-2019-0025			SEP 2019	2019	Reacting fast to visual stimuli is important for many activities of daily living and sports. It remains unknown whether the strategy used during the anticipatory period influences the speed of the reaction. The purpose of this study was to determine if reaction time (RT) differs following a steady and a dynamic anticipatory strategy. Twenty-two young adults (21.0 +/- 2.2 yrs, 13 women) participated in this study. Participants performed 15 trials of a reaction time task with ankle dorsiflexion using a steady (steady force at 15% MVC) and a dynamic (oscillating force from 10-20% MVC) anticipatory strategy. We recorded primary agonist muscle (tibialis anterior; TA) electromyographic (EMG) activity. We quantified RT as the time interval from the onset of the stimulus to the onset of force. We found that a dynamic anticipatory strategy, compared to the steady anticipatory strategy, resulted in a longer RT (p = 0.04). We classified trials of the dynamic condition based on the level and direction of anticipatory force at the moment of the response. We found that RT was longer during the middle descending relative to the middle ascending and the steady conditions (p < 0.01). All together, these results suggest that RT is longer when preceded by a dynamic anticipatory strategy. Specifically, the longer RT is a consequence of the variable direction of force at which the response can occur, which challenges the motor planning process.		[Casamento-Moran, Agostina; Delms, Stefan; Park, Seoung Hoon; Yacoubi, Basma; Christou, Evangelos A.] Univ Florida, Dept Appl Physiol & Kinesiol, Room 100 Florida Gym Stadium RD, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Christou, Evangelos A.] Univ Florida, Dept Appl Physiol & Kinesiol, Room 100 Florida Gym Stadium RD, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600002	27	Article; Article		
J	Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Sarmento, Hugo; Costa, Israel Teoldo; Enes, Ana Rita; Lima, Ricardo								Variability of Technical Actions During Small-Sided Games in Young Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			201	212		10.2478/hukin-2019-0013			SEP 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was three-fold: (i) to test the between-sessions variability of 3 vs. 3 and 6 vs. 6 formats in under-11 players, (ii) to assess the within-session variability of 3 vs. 3 and 6 vs. 6 formats, and (iii) to investigate the variations of technical actions between formats. Sixteen soccer players (10.1 +/- 0.3 years old) participated in this study. Both formats of play were played twice within an interval of one week to test the between-session variability and the variables of conquered balls (CBs), received balls (RBs), lost balls (LBs), attacking balls/passes (ABs) and shots (Ss) were analyzed using the Performance Assessment in Team Sports instrument in all matches. Moderate variations on the sum of sets during the 3 vs. 3 and 6 vs. 6 formats were observed in all variables. Considering the variations of technical actions made between sets in the 3 vs. 3 format, likely moderate increases were found in set 2 vs. 1 in terms of RB (37.5%, [-2.7;94.2]), and likely small decreases were found in set 3 vs. 2 for the same variable (-18.3%, [-37.8;7.3]). In the 6 vs. 6 format, only possibly small increases were found for set 3 vs. 1 in S (22.5%, [-7.0;61.3]). Generally (sum of sets), the variables standardized per minute revealed almost certain very large decreases in the 6 vs. 6 vs. the 3 vs. 3 format in the variables of CB (-67.9%, [-75.3;-55.9]), LB (-66.0%, [-73.9;-55.7]), RB (-65.6%, [-74.8;-53.1]) and S (-87.6%, [-93.1;-77.7]). The results of this study suggest that both formats of play are too noisy to be reproducible. The 3 vs. 3 format largely increased the number of individual technical actions.		[Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Enes, Ana Rita; Lima, Ricardo] Polytech Inst Viana do Castelo, Sch Sport & Leisure, Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Delegacao Da Covilha, Portugal; [Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Act CIDAF, Coimbra, Portugal; [Costa, Israel Teoldo] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Educ Fis, Nucleo Pesquisa & Estudos Futebol NUPEF, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Complexo Desport & Lazer Melgaco Monte Prado, P-4960320 Melgaco, Portugal								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600019	37	Article; Article		
J	Hafedh, Hanen; Slimani, Maamer; Miarka, Bianca; Bettayeb, Ramzi; Bragazzi, Nicola Luigi								Effects of Terbutaline Sulfate on Physiological and Biomechanical as Well as Perceived Exertion in Healthy Active Athletes: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			169	178		10.2478/hukin-2018-0097			SEP 2019	2019	This study aimed to investigate the effects of beta2-agonist terbutaline sulfate (TER) at a supra-therapeutic dose (8 mg) on aerobic exercise performance. Twelve (6 females and 6 males) amateur athletes familiarized with all experimental procedures had their anthropometric data obtained on day 1. On days 2 and 3 either 8 mg of TER or a placebo (PLA) was administered orally (double-blind manner) to participants who had rested for 3 h prior to aerobic exercise performance 20 m multistage fitness test (MSFT)]. This test was used to predict maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) and velocity at which VO2max occurs (vVO(2max)). The Borg rating of perceived exertion (RPE), cardiovascular variables [heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP)] and blood glucose concentration LBGC] were obtained 15 min preand immediately post-MSFT. Significant mean group differences were reported between PLA and TER groups (p < 0.05), respectively, in the RPE (15.6 +/- 1.2 vs. 17.3 +/- 1.5 a.u.), maximum heart rate (HRmax: 191.2 +/- 7.1 vs. 197.2 +/- 8.6 bpm) and BGC (118.4 +/- 18.3 vs. 141.2 +/- 15.8 mg/dL) post-MSFT. The main effect of gender (male vs. female) in TER and PLA groups (p< 0.05) was observed, with higher estimated VO2max, vVO(2max), HRmax and a lower mean HR pre-test in male than female athletes. For these reasons, the inclusion of TER in the Prohibited List should be re-discussed because of the lack of ergogenic effects.		[Hafedh, Hanen; Bettayeb, Ramzi] Univ Jendouba, Higher Inst Sport & Phys Educ El Kef, Res Unit Sports Performance & Phys Rehabil, Jendouba, Tunisia; [Slimani, Maamer; Bragazzi, Nicola Luigi] Genoa Univ, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Hlth Sci DISSAL, Genoa, Italy; [Miarka, Bianca] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Bragazzi, Nicola Luigi] Genoa Univ, Sect Psychiat, Dept Neurosci Rehabil Ophthalmol Genet Maternal &, Genoa, Italy; [Slimani, Maamer] Genoa Univ, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Hlth Sci DISSAL, Genoa, Italy								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600016	36	Article; Article		
J	Muracki, Jaroslaw; Kumorek, Martyna; Kisilewicz, Aleksandra; Pozarowszczyk, Beata; Larsen, Dennis Boye; Kawczynski, Adam; Boudreau, Shellie								Practical Use of the Navigate Pain Application for the Assessment of the Area, Location, and Frequency of the Pain Location in Young Soccer Goalkeepers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			125	135		10.2478/hukin-2019-0091			SEP 2019	2019	Next to winning, minimizing injuries during training and matches is one of the primary goals of professional team sports games. Soreness and pain can be early indicators and risk factors for acute or long-term injuries. Monitoring pain intensity and duration, as well as potential sources, are useful for planning practices and can be effective means for preventing injury. The aim of this study was to assess the areas and locations of pain in young soccer goalkeepers during a training camp, and to differentiate the area and frequency between pain arising from the muscles (MP), joints (JP), or as a result of an impact (IP). Recordings of the MP, JP, and IP location along with the area were performed using digital body mapping software (Navigate Pain Android app, Aalborg University, Denmark) installed on a tablet personal computer at the end of each training day across a 5-day training camp. There was a significant difference in the area between the three types of pain (p < 0.001). The post hoc analysis revealed statistically significant differences between the pixel areas of IP versus JP (p < 0.001), IP versus MP (p < 0.001), and JP versus MP (p < 0.001). There was no significant time-effect for the IP area between 1-5 days of training (p = 0.610), neither for MP (p = 0.118) or JP (p = 0.797) and no significant difference for all three pain areas between the front and the back side of the body. The body regions most often reported for MP were thighs, while for JP they were groin and hips, and for IP the hips, shoulders, and forearms were most frequently indicated. This is the first study to map and report the pain distribution associated with training across a 5-day training camp in soccer goalkeepers, and these findings emphasize the value of using digital pain drawings clinically as well as for monitoring the health status of soccer players.		[Muracki, Jaroslaw; Kumorek, Martyna; Kisilewicz, Aleksandra; Pozarowszczyk, Beata; Kawczynski, Adam] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Paralymp Sport, Wroclaw, Poland; [Larsen, Dennis Boye; Boudreau, Shellie] SMI Aalborg Univ, CNAP, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Aalborg, Denmark; [Kawczynski, Adam] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Sport Sci, Wroclaw, Poland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600012	30	Article; Article		
J	Podstawski, Robert; Markowski, Piotr; Clark, Cain C. T.; Choszcz, Dariusz; Ihasz, Ferenc; Stojiljkovic, Stanimir; Gronek, Piotr								International Standards for the 3-Minute Burpee Test: High-Intensity Motor Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			137	147		10.2478/hukin-2019-0021			SEP 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to develop international standards for evaluating strength endurance with the use of the 3-Minute Burpee Test. The results of 3862 women (Poland - 2502, Great Britain - 500, Hungary - 412, Serbia - 448) and 5971 men (Poland - 4517, Great Britain - 500, Hungary - 451, Serbia - 503) aged 18-25 (mean age of 20.36 +/- 0.94 and 20.05 +/- 1.25 y, respectively) were collated between 2004 and 2018. The students' strength endurance was evaluated in the 3-Minute Burpee Test. The results were expressed on a uniform scale with the 3-sigma rule which was used to develop the T-score scale for the 3-Minute Burpee Test. Men completed 56.69 cycles/3 min and women - 48.84/3 min on average. The best male participant completed 82 burpees, and the best female participant - 73 burpees. The majority of male and female participants (66.71% and 68.18%, respectively) were characterized by average strength endurance in the 3-Minute Burpee Test (range of scores: 47-66 and 37-60 cycles/3 min, respectively). Very good strength endurance (76-85 and 72-83 cycles/3 min, respectively) was noted in the smallest percentage of male and female participants (0.52% and 0.26%, respectively). Similar studies should be carried out in other countries and in different age groups to develop objective international classification standards for variously-aged individuals.		[Podstawski, Robert] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Fac Environm Sci, Dept Tourism Recreat & Ecol, M Oczapowskiego 5, PL-10719 Olsztyn, Poland; [Markowski, Piotr; Choszcz, Dariusz] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Fac Tech Sci, Dept Heavy Duty Machines & Res Methodol, Olsztyn, Poland; [Clark, Cain C. T.] Coventry Univ, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Coventry CV1 5FB, W Midlands, England; [Ihasz, Ferenc] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Fac Psychol & Pedag, Inst Sports Sci, Szombathely, Hungary; [Stojiljkovic, Stanimir] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Belgrade, Serbia; [Gronek, Piotr] Univ Phys Educ Poznan, Dept Dance & Gymnast, Poznan, Poland; [Podstawski, Robert] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Fac Environm Sci, Dept Tourism Recreat & Ecol, M Oczapowskiego 5, PL-10719 Olsztyn, Poland								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600013	30	Article; Article		
J	Gimenez, Jesus, V; Leicht, Anthony S.; Gomez, Miguel A.								Physical Performance Differences Between Starter and Non-Starter Players During Professional Soccer Friendly Matches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			283	291		10.2478/hukin-2019-0018			SEP 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to investigate the physical performance differences between players that started (i.e. starters, >= 65 minutes played) and those that were substituted into (i.e. non-starter) soccer friendly matches. Fourteen professional players (age: 23.2 +/- 2.7 years, body height: 178 +/- 6 cm, body mass: 73.2 +/- 6.9 kg) took part in this study. Twenty, physical performance-related match variables (e.g. distance covered at different intensities, accelerations and decelerations, player load, maximal running speed, exertion index, work-to-rest ratio and rating of perceived exertion) were collected during two matches. Results were analysed using effect sizes (ES) and magnitude based inferences. Compared to starters, non-starters covered greater match distance within the following intensity categories: >3.3 <= 4.2m/s (very likely), >4.2 <= 5 m/s (likely) and >5 <= 6.9 m/s (likely). In contrast, similar match average acceleration and deceleration values were identified for starters and non-starters (trivial). Indicators of workloads including player loads (very likely), the exertion index (very likely), and the work-to-rest ratio (very likely) were greater, while self-reported ratings of perceived exertion were lower (likely) for non-starters compared to starters. The current study demonstrates that substantial physical performance differences during friendly soccer matches exist between starters and non-starters. Identification of these differences enables coaches and analysts to potentially prescribe optimal training loads and microcycles based upon player's match starting status.		[Gimenez, Jesus, V; Gomez, Miguel A.] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, C Martin Fierro S-N, Madrid 28040, Spain; [Leicht, Anthony S.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Gimenez, Jesus, V] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, C Martin Fierro S-N, Madrid 28040, Spain								27							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600027	31	Article; Article		
J	Cosic, Marko; Djuric, Sasa; Zivkovic, Milena Z.; Nedeljkovic, Aleksandar; Leontijevici, Bojan; Jaric, Slobodan								Is Test Standardization Important when Arm and Leg Muscle Mechanical Properties are Assessed Through the Force-Velocity Relationship?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			47	58		10.2478/hukin-2019-0010			SEP 2019	2019	The force-velocity (F-V) relationship observed in multi-joint tasks proved to be strong and approximately linear. Recent studies showed that mechanical properties of muscles: force (F), velocity (V) and power (P) could be assessed through the F-V relationship although the testing methods have not been standardized. The aim of the present study was to evaluate and compare F-V relationships assessed from two tests performed on a modified Smith machine that standardizes kinematics of the movement pattern. Fifteen participants were tested on the maximum performance bench press throws and squat jumps performed against a variety of different loads. In addition, their strength properties were assessed through maximum isometric force (Fiso) and one repetition maximum (1 RM). The observed individual F-V relationships were exceptionally strong and approximately linear (r = 0.98 for bench press throws; r = 0.99 for squat jumps). F-V relationship parameter depicting maximum force (F0) revealed high correlations with both Fiso and 1 RM indicating high concurrent validity (p < 0.01). However, the generalizability of F-V relationship parameters depicting maximum force (F0), velocity (V0) and power (P0) of the tested muscle groups was inconsistent and on average low (i.e. F0; r = -0.24) to moderate (i.e. V0 and P0; r = 0.54 and r = 0.64, respectively; both p < 0.05). We concluded that the F-V relationship could be used for the assessment of arm and leg muscle mechanical properties when standard tests are applied, since the typical outcome is an exceptionally strong and linear F-V relationship, as well as high concurrent validity of its parameters. However, muscle mechanical properties could be only partially generalized across different tests and muscles.		[Cosic, Marko; Djuric, Sasa; Zivkovic, Milena Z.; Nedeljkovic, Aleksandar; Leontijevici, Bojan; Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Res Ctr, Belgrade, Serbia; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Biomech & Movement Sci Grad Program, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Jaric, Slobodan] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland; [Nedeljkovic, Aleksandar] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Blagoja Parov 156, Belgrade 11030, Serbia								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600005	47	Article; Article		
J	Scheer, Volker; Vieluf, Solveig; Janssen, Tanja, I; Heitkamp, Hans-Christian								Predicting Competition Performance in Short Trail Running Races with Lactate Thresholds								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			159	167		10.2478/hukin-2019-0092			SEP 2019	2019	Trail running is a popular sport, yet factors related to performance are still not fully understood. Lactate thresholds have been thoroughly investigated in road running and correlate strongly with race performance, but to date few data are available about the value in trail running performance prediction. We examined 25 trail runners (age 31.2 +/- 5.1 years, BMI 22.2 +/- 1.82 kg/m(2)) with an initial graded exercise test for measurement of VO2max (59.5 +/- 5.2 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)) and lactate thresholds (LT): LTAET (LT aerobic) 1.03 +/- 0.59 mmol/l; 11.2 +/- 1.1 km/h), IAT (individual lactate threshold) (2.53 +/- 0.59 mmol/l; 15.4 +/- 1.6 km/h) and LT4 (lactate threshold at 4 mmol/l) (16.2 +/- 1.9 km/h). All runners subsequently participated in a 31.1 km XS trail race and 9 runners in a 21 km XXS trail race. Race performance times correlated negatively with the XS trail run (LTAET: r = -0.65, p < 0.01; LT4: r = -0.87, p < 0.01; IAT: r = -0.84, p < 0.01) and regression analysis showed that race performance could be predicted by: LT4: -324.15xLT4+13195.23 (R-2 = .753, F-1(,)23 = 70.02, p < 0.01). A subgroup analysis showed higher correlations with race performance for slower than faster runners. No correlations were found with the XXS race. Lactate thresholds can be of value in predicting trail race performance and help in designing training plans.		[Scheer, Volker] Ultra Sports Sci Fdn, Pierre Benite, France; [Scheer, Volker] British Forces Germany, RRU Sennelager, BFPO 16, Normandy Barracks, Germany; [Scheer, Volker; Vieluf, Solveig; Janssen, Tanja, I; Heitkamp, Hans-Christian] Univ Paderborn, Inst Sports Med, Dept Hlth, Paderborn, Germany; [Scheer, Volker] British Forces Germany, RRU Sennelager, BFPO 16, Normandy Barracks, Germany								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600015	42	Article; Article		
J	Kobal, Ronaldo; Pereira, Lucas A.; Kitamura, Katia; Paulo, Anderson C.; Ramos, Henrique A.; Carmo, Everton C.; Roschel, Hamilton; Tricoli, Valmor; Bishop, Chris; Loturco, Irineu								Post-Activation Potentiation: Is there an Optimal Training Volume and Intensity to Induce Improvements in Vertical Jump Ability in Highly-Trained Subjects?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			239	247		10.2478/hukin-2019-0016			SEP 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to compare the acute effects of performing half squats (HSs) with different loading intensities (1, 3, and 5 repetitions maximum[RM], and 60% 1RM) and a different number of sets (1, 2, and 3) on the countermovement jump (CMJ) performance of 18 highly-trained male subjects. Participants were submitted to four experimental conditions (1RM, 3RM, 5RM, and 60% 1RM) in randomized order. The CMJ was assessed before and after each set. Differences in CMJ performance between the distinct experimental conditions and individual responses in CMJ performance induced by the different protocols were analyzed via the magnitude-based inference method. Overall, significant improvements were detected in individual CMJ heights after each activation protocol. It can be concluded that the use of 1 to 3 sets of HSs performed at moderate-to-high loads may be an effective strategy to improve jump performance in highly-trained subjects. Nonetheless, despite the high efficiency of the protocols tested here, coaches and researchers are strongly encouraged to perform individualized assessments within the proposed range of loads and sets, to find optimal and tailored post-activation potentiation protocols.		[Kobal, Ronaldo; Pereira, Lucas A.; Kitamura, Katia; Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Paulo, Anderson C.] Fed Technol Univ Parana, Acad Dept Phys Educ, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Ramos, Henrique A.; Roschel, Hamilton; Tricoli, Valmor] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Carmo, Everton C.] Senac Univ Ctr, Phys Educ, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sports Inst, London, England; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport Sao Paulo, Av Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600023	36	Article; Article		
J	Elbadry, Naglaa; Hamza, Amr; Pietraszewski, Przemyslaw; Alexe, Dan Iulian; Lupu, Gabriel								Effect of the French Contrast Method on Explosive Strength and Kinematic Parameters of the Triple Jump Among Female College Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			225	230		10.2478/hukin-2019-0047			SEP 2019	2019	There are resistance training methods that result in strength, others that enhance hypertrophy and others that stimulate power. The training modality of contrast provides all of these benefits in one session. The concept of French Contrast training is based on a combination of complex and contrast methods. The idea is to use four exercises to induce physiological responses of the athlete and train along the force-speed curve. The primary purpose of the study was to investigate the impact of the French Contrast Method on explosive strength and kinematic parameters of the triple jump among female college athletes. Ten female college athletes from the Helwan University's track and field team participated in this study. Participants were assessed before and after an 8-week training program for upper and lower body explosive strength. No significant differences were observed in anthropometric characteristics. Explosive strength variables (Sargent jump test, countermovement jump, and seated medicine ball throw) increased significantly and kinematic parameters of the triple jump improved. The results indicated that eight weeks of the French Contrast training can improve both explosive strength and kinematic parameters of the triple jump.		[Elbadry, Naglaa] Helwan Univ, Fac Phys Educ Girls, Helwan, Egypt; [Hamza, Amr] Aswan Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Tingar, Egypt; [Pietraszewski, Przemyslaw] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sports Sci, Poland Mikolowska 72a Str, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Alexe, Dan Iulian; Lupu, Gabriel] Vasile Alecsandri Univ Bacau, Fac Movement Sports & Hlth Sci, Bacau, Romania; [Pietraszewski, Przemyslaw] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Inst Sports Sci, Poland Mikolowska 72a Str, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600021	23	Article; Article		
J	Rutkowski, Sebastian; Rutkowska, Anna; Jastrzebski, Dariusz; Racheniuk, Henryk; Pawelczyk, Witold; Szczegielniak, Jan								Effect of Virtual Reality-Based Rehabilitation on Physical Fitness in Patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				69	1			149	157		10.2478/hukin-2019-0022			SEP 2019	2019	The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of rehabilitation in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) using the Kinect system during stationary rehabilitation. The study included 68 patients with COPD (35 men, 33 women, mean age 61.3 +/- 3.7). The subjects were randomly assigned to one of the two experimental groups described below. Group I included 34 patients - non-participants in Kinect training. Group II included 34 patients - participants in Kinect training. In all patients before and after rehabilitation physical fitness was assessed using the Senior Fitness Test (SFT). The Xbox 360 and Kinect motion sensor were used to carry out virtual reality training. In group I, statistically significant improvements in SFT performance were observed. Patients in group II also showed statistically significant improvement in physical fitness in all attempts of the SFT. Virtual rehabilitation training in patients with COPD seems to be a practical and beneficial intervention capable of enhancing mobility and physical fitness.		[Rutkowski, Sebastian; Rutkowska, Anna; Racheniuk, Henryk; Pawelczyk, Witold; Szczegielniak, Jan] Opole Univ Technol, Inst Physiotherapy, Dept Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Proszkowska 76 St, PL-45758 Opole, Poland; [Jastrzebski, Dariusz] Med Univ Silesia, Dept Lung Dis & TB, Div Dent, Sch Med, Zabrze, Poland; [Rutkowski, Sebastian] Opole Univ Technol, Inst Physiotherapy, Dept Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Proszkowska 76 St, PL-45758 Opole, Poland								47							Sport Sciences	WOS:000491222600014	28	Article; Article		
J	Jin, Youngyun; Kim, Donghyun; Hong, Haeryun; Kang, Hyunsik								A Long-Term Exercise Intervention Reduces Depressive Symptoms in Older Korean Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			399	404					SEP 2019	2019	Despite its prevalence and significance, late life depression is underrecognized and undertreated. This study aimed to investigate the effect of a long-term exercise intervention on depressive symptoms in older Korean women. Thirty older women were assigned to exercise (n = 15, age of 80.8 +/- 3.8 years) or control group (n = 15, age of 78.6 +/- 3.2 years). The exercise group underwent a resistance exercise plus walking two times weekly on nonconsecutive days for 6 months. Post-intervention change in depressive symptoms was regarded as the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes included changes in body composition and physical performance. Repeated measures analysis of variance showed significant group by time interactions for depressive symptoms (F(1,23) = 37.540, p < 0.001), percent body fat (F(1,23) = 6.122, p = 0.021), lean body mass (F(1,23) = 5.662, p = 0.026), waist circumference (F(1,23) = 4.330, p = 0.049), handgrip strength (F(1,23) = 10.114, p = 0.005), 6-min walking (F(1,23) = 28.988, p < 0.001), and 2.44-m Up & Go (F(1,23) = 28.714, p < 0.001). The current findings support regular exercise as a therapeutic strategy to promote overall and mental health in older Korean women with depressive symptoms.		[Jin, Youngyun; Kim, Donghyun; Hong, Haeryun; Kang, Hyunsik] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Kang, Hyunsik] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sport Sci, Lab Exercise Physiol & Biochem, 2066 Seobu Ro, Suwon 16419, South Korea								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900002	30	Article; Article		
J	Farr, Colin; Middlebrooke, Andrew R.; Armstrong, Neil; Barker, Alan R.; Fulford, Jon; Mawson, David M.; McManus, Ali M.								Objectively Measured Aerobic Fitness is Not Related to Vascular Health Outcomes and Cardiovascular Disease Risk In 9-10 Year Old Children								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			513	522					SEP 2019	2019	The purpose of the study was to examine whether a higher aerobic fitness in 9-10 year old children is related to superior macro and microvascular health and cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. Ninety-six 9-10 year olds (53 boys) completed the study. Body composition was assessed from air displacement plethysmography and magnetic resonance imaging Peak oxygen uptake (VO2) was assessed from a ramp-incremental cycling exercise test. Macrovascular outcomes were assessed from pulse wave analysis and pulse wave velocity (PWV) using applanation tonometry. Microvascular function was assessed from the functional microvascular reserve and skin erythrocyte flux after iontophoretic application of skin vasodilators. Assessment of CVD risk was assessed via body mass index, total body fat percentage and visceral adipose tissue, glucose, triglyceride, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol, while insulin resistance was calculated using Homeostatic model assessment. Aerobic fitness groups (higher vs lower) were calculated from VO2 peak scaled for body mass (mL.kg(-0.)(61).min(-1)) and fat free mass (mL . FFM-1.min(-1)). Children with a higher VO2 peak scaled for body mass had a greater carotid to ankle PWV compared to those with lower aerobic fitness (mean +/- SD: 6.08 +/- 0.47 vs. 5.87 +/- 0.43 m.S-1; p = 0.039), although this became non-significant when scaled for FFM (p = 0.56). No other mean differences in vascular or CVD risk health markers were present between higher and lower groups of aerobic fitness when scaled for body mass or FFM. Conclusion: Directly assessed aerobic fitness is not related to macro and microvascular health outcomes or CVD risk markers in 9-10 year olds.		[Farr, Colin; Middlebrooke, Andrew R.; Armstrong, Neil; Barker, Alan R.] Univ Exeter, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Childrens Hlth & Exercise Res Ctr, Sport & Hlth Sci, Exeter, Devon, England; [Mawson, David M.] Univ Exeter, NIHR Exeter Clin Res Facil, Diabet & Vasc Med, Med Sch,RD&E Wonford, Barrack Rd, Exeter, Devon, England; [Fulford, Jon] Univ Exeter, Med Sch, NIHR Exeter Clin Res Facil, Exeter, Devon, England; [McManus, Ali M.] Univ British Columbia, Ctr Heart Lung & Vasc Hlth, Sch Hlth & Exercise Sci, Kelowna, BC, Canada; [Farr, Colin] Princess Wales Hosp, MRC Epidemiol Unit, Lynn Rd, Ely CB6 1DN, Cambs, England								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900016	63	Article; Article		
J	Duignan, Ciara M.; Slevin, Patrick J.; Caulfield, Brian M.; Blake, Catherine								Mobile Athlete Self-Report Measures and the Complexities of Implementation								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			405	412					SEP 2019	2019	Recent practice in athlete monitoring has seen the development and implementation of customized, digital Athlete Self-Report Measures or Mobile Athlete Self-Report Measures (M-ASRM) across various sport settings, including amateur sports such as Gaelic Games. Successful implementation of M-ASRM requires significant consideration of the use context and limitations therein, an investment of time and expertise by staff and buy-in from key stakeholders, yet there is limited evidence of these considerations being applied in practice. This study aimed to investigate stakeholder perceptions regarding the implementation processes and understanding of a pre-existing M-ASRM in elite Gaelic Games. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with the use of a topic guide to explore the rationale, introduction and use of M-ASRM. Participants were 21 M-ASRM users in elite Gaelic Games (players n = 10, coaches and support staff n = 11), from 15 teams. Thematic analysis was conducted collaboratively by two authors, adopting an inductive approach and coding the transcripts using NVivo 12 software. Four higher-order themes were formed from the data: (1) clarity of purpose; (2) implementation strategies; (3) players perceptions of use and (4) perceived facilitators of M-ASRM use. The results of this study demonstrate a significant underestimation of the practical requirements for successful implementation of an M-ASRM by users in elite Gaelic Games. Recommendations are made for implementation and best practice use, including shared decision-making, evidence-based education strategies, structured feedback channels and improved planning with regards to feasibility and responsibility.		[Duignan, Ciara M.; Slevin, Patrick J.; Caulfield, Brian M.] Univ Coll Dublin, Insight Ctr Data Analyt, Dublin, Ireland; [Duignan, Ciara M.; Slevin, Patrick J.; Caulfield, Brian M.; Blake, Catherine] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Duignan, Ciara M.] Univ Coll Dublin, OBrien Ctr Sci, Insight Ctr Data Analyt, Dublin 4, Ireland								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900003	31	Article; Article		
J	Cao, Liquan; Jiang, Yan; Li, Qingwen; Wang, Jianxiong; Tan, Sijie								Exercise Training at Maximal Fat Oxidation Intensity for Overweight or Obese Older Women: A Randomized Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			413	418					SEP 2019	2019	The purpose was to study the therapeutic effects of 12 weeks of supervised exercise training at maximal fat oxidation intensity (FATmax) on body composition, lipid profile, cardiovascular function, and physical fitness in overweight or obese older women. Thirty women (64.2 +/- 5.1 years old; BMI 27.1 +/- 2.3 kg/m(2); body fat 41.3 +/- 4.6%) were randomly allocated into the Exercise or Control groups. Participants in the Exercise group were trained at their individualized FATmax intensity (aerobic training), three days/week for one hour/day for 12 weeks. The Exercise group had significantly decreased body mass, BMI, fat mass, visceral trunk fat, and diastolic blood pressure. Furthermore, there were significant increases in high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, predicted VO2max, left ventricular ejection fraction, and sit-and-reach performance. There were no changes in the measured variables of the Control group. These outcomes indicate that FATmax is an effective exercise intensity to improve body composition and functional capacity for older women with overweight or obesity.		[Cao, Liquan; Jiang, Yan; Li, Qingwen; Tan, Sijie] Tianjin Univ Sport, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Tianjin, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jianxiong] Univ Southern Queensland, Fac Hlth Engn & Sci, Toowoomba, Qld, Australia; [Tan, Sijie] Tianjin Univ Sport, Tianjin Phys Fitness Res Ctr, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Tianjin, Peoples R China								39							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900004	41	Article; Article		
J	Cortesi, Matteo; Giovanardi, Andrea; Gatta, Giorgio; Mangia, Anna L.; Bartolomei, Sandro; Fantozzi, Silvia								Inertial Sensors in Swimming: Detection of Stroke Phases through 3D Wrist Trajectory								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			438	447					SEP 2019	2019	Monitoring the upper arm propulsion is a crucial task for swimmer performance. The swimmer indeed can produce displacement of the body by modulating the upper limb kinematics. The present study proposes an approach for automatically recognize all stroke phases through three-dimensional (3D) wrist's trajectory estimated using inertial devices. Inertial data of 14 national-level male swimmer were collected while they performed 25 m front-crawl trial at intensity range from 75% to 100% of their 25 m maximal velocity. The 3D coordinates of the wrist were computed using the inertial sensors orientation and considering the kinematic chain of the upper arm biomechanical model. An algorithm that automatically estimates the duration of entry, pull, push, and recovery phases result from the 3D wrist's trajectory was tested using the bi-dimensional (2D) video-based systems as temporal reference system. A very large correlation (r = 0.87), low bias (0.8%), and reasonable Root Mean Square error (2.9%) for the stroke phases duration were observed using inertial devices versus 2D video-based system methods. The 95% limits of agreement (LoA) for each stroke phase duration were always lower than 7.7% of cycle duration. The mean values of entry, pull, push and recovery phases duration in percentage of the complete cycle detected using 3D wrist's trajectory using inertial devices were 34.7 (+/- 6.8)%, 22.4 (+/- 5.8)%, 14.2 (+/- 4.4)%, 28.4 (+/- 4.5)%. The swimmer's velocity and arm coordination model do not affect the performance of the algorithm in stroke phases detection. The 3D wrist trajectory can be used for an accurate and complete identification of the stroke phases in front crawl using inertial sensors. Results indicated the inertial sensor device technology as a viable option for swimming arm-stroke phase assessment.		[Cortesi, Matteo; Gatta, Giorgio] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies, Bologna, Italy; [Giovanardi, Andrea] Univ Bologna, Sch Pharm Biotechnol & Sport Sci, Bologna, Italy; [Mangia, Anna L.] Univ Bologna, Interdept Ctr Ind Res, Hlth Sci & Technol, Bologna, Italy; [Bartolomei, Sandro] Univ Bologna, Dept Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, Bologna, Italy; [Fantozzi, Silvia] Univ Bologna, Dept Elect Elect & Informat Engn, Bologna, Italy; [Cortesi, Matteo] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies, Bologna, Italy								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900007	41	Article; Article		
J	Whalen, Arielle; Farrell, Kaitlyn; Roberts, Stephanie; Smith, Hannah; Behm, David G.								Topical Analgesic Improved or Maintained Ballistic Hip Flexion Range of Motion with Treated and Untreated Legs								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			552	558					SEP 2019	2019	Increased stretch tolerance can contribute to improved range of motion (ROM). Since menthol-based topical analgesics (TopAnalg) suppress pain, they may increase stretch thresholds improving ROM. Other modalities such as transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation and rolling have demonstrated decreased pain sensitivity in the contralateral limb. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of a TopAnalg on active and passive ROM of the treated and contralateral (untreated) leg. With a double blind, repeated measures design, 14 university students had a TopAnalg or a placebo gel applied to their hamstrings, rested for 20-min and then either performed static or dynamic stretching. Prior to gel application and after stretching, participants were tested for passive static, active and ballistic hip flexion ROM. Near significant greater ballistic hip flexion ROM for both legs (treated: p = 0.08; 3.6%; contralateral: p = 0.1; 1.6%) were observed with the TopAnalg. With dynamic stretching, ballistic hip flexion ROM of both limbs at post-test (p=0.01-0.007; 3.3-4.2%) and post-10 minutes (p = 0.06-0.01; 2.7-4.1%) decreased with the placebo, whereas there were no significant reductions with the TopAnalg. There was a near significant higher active hip flexion ROM (stretched leg: p = 0.05; 4.6%), and significantly higher ballistic hip flexion ROM (p = 0.04-0.05; 3.4-3.5%) with static versus dynamic stretching for both legs. In conclusion, TopAnalg can increase hip flexion ROM of the treated and contralateral limbs. Secondly, static stretching contributed to greater ballistic ROM in both the stretched and non-stretched contralateral limbs. Hence, TopAnalg may be used to enhance flexibility training with rehabilitation or highly trained athletes.		[Whalen, Arielle; Farrell, Kaitlyn; Roberts, Stephanie; Smith, Hannah; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900020	37	Article; Article		
J	Waller, Justin D.; McNeill, Emily H.; Zhong, Frank; Vervaecke, Lauren S.; Goldfarb, Allan H.								Plasma Apelin Unchanged With Acute Exercise Insulin Sensitization								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			537	543					SEP 2019	2019	Blood glucose and insulin responses to aerobic exercise are well defined yet the mechanisms effecting post-exercise insulin sensitization remain incomplete. Apelin has been reported to enhance glucose uptake and insulin sensitivity in vivo, but its role as a regulator of insulin sensitivity following acute aerobic exercise has not been investigated. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate apelin's response to acute bouts of maximal and submaximal aerobic exercise and to elucidate apelin's influence on insulin sensitivity. Twelve (22.8 +/- 2.9 yrs) healthy male (n = 7) and female (n = 5) subjects completed a graded to maximal (VO(2)max) and submaximal (70-75% VO(2)max) treadmill miming bouts, as well as a 50g glucose challenge (GC). Blood was obtained at four time points (pre, post, 1hr post and 24hrs post) and assessed for glucose, insulin and apelin. Hepatic insulin sensitivity was assessed at rest and at 1hr and 24hrs via HOMA-IR and QUICKI indices. Results demonstrated that plasma apelin did not significantly change by condition (p = 0.324) or time (p = 0.633). Blood glucose and plasma insulin were significantly elevated immediately after VO(2)max and GC, but remained stable after submaximal exercise. Insulin sensitivity was significantly improved 1hr post-submaximal exercise, per HOMA-IR (p = 0.034) and QUICKI (p = 0.018) indices. Plasma apelin was significantly correlated with plasma insulin (r = 0.699, p = 0.011), HOMA-IR (r = 0.626, p = 0.029) and QUICKI (r = 0.660, p = 0.019) at rest. We conclude that, although hepatic insulin sensitivity was improved 1hr post-submaximal exercise, this exercise-induced insulin sensitization occurred independent of plasma apelin changes.		[Waller, Justin D.; McNeill, Emily H.; Zhong, Frank; Vervaecke, Lauren S.; Goldfarb, Allan H.] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, Dept Kinesiol, 260 Coleman Bldg,1408 Walker Ave, Greensboro, NC 27412 USA; [Goldfarb, Allan H.] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, Dept Kinesiol, 260 Coleman Bldg,1408 Walker Ave, Greensboro, NC 27412 USA								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900018	40	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Victor O. A.; Browne, Rodrigo A., V; Souza, Daniel C.; Matos, Victor A. F.; Macedo, Geovani A. D.; Farias-Junior, Luiz F.; Farias, Jose C.; Costa, Eduardo C.; Fayh, Ana P. T.								Effects of High-Intensity Interval and Moderate-Intensity Continuous Exercise on Physical Activity and Sedentary Behavior Levels in Inactive Obese Males: A Crossover Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			390	398					SEP 2019	2019	A total of 17 participants (30.2 +/- 4.8 years; 35.4 +/- 4 kg/m(2); 38.2 +/- 3.6 % body fat) were enrolled in this randomized crossover trial to analyze the effects of a single session of high-intensity interval (HIIE) and moderate-intensity continuous exercise (MICE) on the physical activity and sedentary behavior levels in inactive obese males. The participants performed two exercise sessions and one control session (no exercise): i) low-volume HIIE (10 x 60 s at 90% of maximal aerobic velocity [MAV] interspaced by 60 s at 30% of MAV); ii) MICE (20 min at 70% of maximum heart rate); and iii) control (25 min in a seated position). After all sessions, the physical activity and sedentary behavior levels were monitored by accelerometer over seven consecutive days. No differences in the physical activity (activity counts, and time spent at light, moderate, and vigorous intensities) and sedentary behavior (time spent at sedentary behavior, breaks, and bouts) levels were found among the sessions (HIIE, MICE and control) (p > 0.05). In summary, a single session of HUE and MICE does not change the physical activity and sedentary behavior levels in inactive obese males. Therefore, low-volume of both high- and moderate-intensity exercise should be considered for inactive obese males given that it does not reduce the physical activity level or increase the time spent at sedentary behavior.		[Santos, Victor O. A.; Souza, Daniel C.; Matos, Victor A. F.; Macedo, Geovani A. D.; Costa, Eduardo C.; Fayh, Ana P. T.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Grad Program Phys Educ, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Santos, Victor O. A.; Browne, Rodrigo A., V; Souza, Daniel C.; Matos, Victor A. F.; Macedo, Geovani A. D.; Farias-Junior, Luiz F.; Costa, Eduardo C.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Phys Educ, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Browne, Rodrigo A., V; Farias-Junior, Luiz F.; Costa, Eduardo C.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Grad Program Hlth Sci, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Farias, Jose C.] Univ Fed Paraiba, Dept Phys Educ, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Fayh, Ana P. T.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Nutr, Campus Univ,BR 101, BR-59078970 Natal, RN, Brazil; [Fayh, Ana P. T.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Nutr, Campus Univ,BR 101, BR-59078970 Natal, RN, Brazil								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900001	41	Article; Article		
J	Centner, Christoph; Zdzieblik, Denise; Roberts, Llion; Gollhofer, Albert; Koenig, Daniel								Effects of Blood Flow Restriction Training with Protein Supplementation on Muscle Mass And Strength in Older Men								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	3			471	478					SEP 2019	2019	Blood flow restriction (BFR) training has been shown to induce favorable changes in muscle mass and strength with a considerably low training load (20 - 30% 1RM). However, it has never been evaluated if an additional post-exercise protein supplementation enhances the effects of this training regimen. Thirty healthy older men (60.1 +/- 7.6 years) were enrolled in the 8-week intervention and randomly allocated to one of the following groups: low-load BFR training with protein (collagen hydrolysate) supplementation (BFR-CH), low-load BFR training with placebo (BFR-PLA), or a control group without training, but with protein supplementation (CON). Muscle cross-sectional area (CSA), muscle strength, circulating reactive oxygen species and IGF-1 were measured before and after the intervention. Muscle CSA increased in both BFR-CH and BFR-PLA groups by 6.7 +/- 3.2 % (p < 0.001) and 5.7 +/- 2.7 % (p < 0.001) respectively. No significant changes were observed in the CON group (1.1 +/- 1.7 %, p = 0.124). Evaluation of isometric strength (p = 0.247), insulin-like growth factor 1 (p = 0.705) and the production of reactive oxygen species (p(t1) = 0.229; p(t2) = 0.741) revealed no significant interaction effect but a significant long-term time effect (p < 0.001). Our results demonstrate that BFR training is an effective alternative for increasing muscle CSA in older men. Although there was a trend towards greater muscle mass adaptations in the BFR-CH group, these findings showed no statistical significance. Further research with larger sample sizes is needed to confirm these results.		[Centner, Christoph; Zdzieblik, Denise; Gollhofer, Albert; Koenig, Daniel] Univ Freiburg, Dept Sport & Sport Sci, Freiburg, Germany; [Roberts, Llion] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Gold Coast, Australia; [Centner, Christoph] Univ Freiburg, Dept Sport & Sport Sci, Freiburg, Germany								38							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478793900011	44	Article; Article		
J	Biggins, Michelle; Purtill, Helen; Fowler, Peter; Bender, Amy; Sullivan, Kieran O.; Samuels, Charles; Cahalan, Roisin								Sleep in elite multi-sport athletes: Implications for athlete health and wellbeing								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				136	142		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.07.006			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: To investigate the prevalence of clinically relevant sleep problems in elite multi-sport athletes and their associations with sleep hygiene, general health, mood, chronotype, and injury. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: During the competitive season in athletes' home environment. Participants: Elite multi-sport Irish athletes (n = 58) competing at the 2017 World University Games. Main outcome measures: Category of clinical sleep problem (Athlete-Sleep-Screening-Questionnaire), sleep hygiene (Sleep Hygiene Index), general health (Subjective Health Complaints), mood (Sports Profile of Mood States), chronotype (Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire), and injury (self-reported injury). Results: 43% had no clinical sleep problem, 41% had a mild clinical sleep problem, 16% had a moderate clinical sleep problem, none had a severe clinical sleep problem. Therefore, 84% of athletes did not have a clinically significant sleep problem while 16% had a clinically significant sleep problem. One-way-ANOVA revealed significantly worse sleep hygiene (p = 0.002), more general health complaints (p = 0.001) and greater mood disturbance (p = 0.001) among those with clinically significant sleep disturbances compared to those without. No association was found between having a clinically significant sleep problem and either chronotype or previous recent injury. Conclusions: Athletes with a clinically significant sleep problem were more likely to report worse sleep hygiene, more general health complaints, and mood disturbance. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Biggins, Michelle; Sullivan, Kieran O.; Cahalan, Roisin] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Biggins, Michelle; Purtill, Helen; Sullivan, Kieran O.; Cahalan, Roisin] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Purtill, Helen] Univ Limerick, Dept Math & Stat, Limerick, Ireland; [Sullivan, Kieran O.] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Sports Spine Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Fowler, Peter] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Bender, Amy; Samuels, Charles] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Samuels, Charles] Univ Calgary, Cummings Sch Med, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Biggins, Michelle] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland								46							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600020	56	Article; Article		
J	Wright, Sheila Leddington; Bloxham, Alison; Hames, Thomas; Price, Mike								Therapeutic perceptions in management of transplant athletes at transplant games								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				114	119		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.07.003			SEP 2019	2019	Objective: To investigate manual therapist's knowledge and beliefs of working with Transplantee Athletes (TxA) at Transplant Games. Design: On-line questionnaire. Participants: Thirty present and previous members of Transplant Sport 'therapy team' (age; 35 +/- 14 years, 24 female). Main outcome measures: Questions concerned demographics and general information on the background of the therapists. Closed questions with rating statements concerning beliefs when treating TxA and open questions asking for advice the participants would give to colleagues and further information they would like to have available to them. Results: TxA were thought to be a vulnerable group of athletes requiring special precautions and considerations. Two areas of information evolved: "general advice for TxA management" and "specific advice for therapists". General advice was to understand TxAs and be vigilant with hygiene. Specific therapy advice was to avoid grade V manipulations and care with taping and massage, because of complications resulting from side effects of long-term medication. Conclusion: There appears to be a lack of research-based evidence to guide practitioners in their management of TxAs. Generic, good advice is now available from experienced practitioners however there is a paucity of research evidence to support this. Thus, there is a potential danger of being overcautious in approaches to treatment which ultimately may impact on athletic performance. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Wright, Sheila Leddington; Hames, Thomas; Price, Mike] Coventry Univ, Sch Life Sci, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Bloxham, Alison] Transplant Sport, Winchester, Hants, England; [Wright, Sheila Leddington] Coventry Univ, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Sch Life Sci, Priory St, Coventry CV1 5FB, W Midlands, England								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600017	32	Article; Article		
J	Hughes, Luke; Patterson, Stephen David; Haddad, Fares; Rosenblatt, Benjamin; Gissane, Conor; McCarthy, Daniel; Clarke, Thomas; Ferris, Graham; Dawes, Joanna; Paton, Bruce								Examination of the comfort and pain experienced with blood flow restriction training during post-surgery rehabilitation of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction patients: A UK National Health Service trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				90	98		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.014			SEP 2019	2019	Objective: Examine the comfort and pain experienced with blow flow restriction resistance training (BFR-RT) compared to standard care heavy load resistance training (HL-RT) during anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) patient rehabilitation. Design: Randomised controlled trial. Setting: United Kingdom National Health Service. Participants: Twenty eight patients undergoing unilateral ACLR surgery with hamstring autograft were recruited. Following surgery participants were block randomised to either HL-RT at 70% repetition maximum (1RM) (n = 14) or BFR-RT (n = 14) at 30% 1RM and completed 8 weeks of twice weekly unilateral leg press training on both limbs. Main outcome measures: Perceived knee pain, muscle pain and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) were assessed using Borg's (1998) RPE and pain scales during training. Knee pain was also assessed 24 h post-training. Results: There were no adverse events. Knee pain was lower with BFR-RT during (p < 0.05) and at 24 h post-training (p < 0.05) with BFR-RT for all sessions. Muscle pain was higher (p < 0.05) with BFR-RT compared to HL-RT during all sessions. RPE remained unchanged (p > 0.05) for both BFR-RT and HL-RT. Conclusion: ACLR patients experienced less knee joint pain and reported similar ratings of perceived exertion during and following leg press exercise with BFR-RT compared to traditional HL-RT. BFR-RT may be more advantageous during the early phases of post-surgery ACLR rehabilitation. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Hughes, Luke; Patterson, Stephen David; Gissane, Conor] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, London 7W1 4SX, England; [Hughes, Luke; Haddad, Fares; Paton, Bruce] Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, 170 Tottenham Court Rd, London, England; [Rosenblatt, Benjamin] Football Assoc, St Georges Pk, Burton Upon Trent, England; [McCarthy, Daniel; Clarke, Thomas; Ferris, Graham; Dawes, Joanna] UCL, London, England; [Hughes, Luke] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, London 7W1 4SX, England								68							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600014	54	Article; Article		
J	Vasiliadis, Angelo V.; Maris, Alexandros; Tsoupli, Aikaterini; Saridis, Antonios								Rehabilitation exercise program after surgical treatment of quadriceps tendon rupture: A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				82	89		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.07.001			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: This case report describes in detail the rehabilitation exercise program, provide postoperative therapeutic objectives/recommendations and to facilitate the return to a possible schedule of ADL and participation in sports after the surgical treatment of quadriceps tendon rupture. Also, the exact surgical technique is described. Design: A single case report. Participant: The patient was an active 53-year-old man who sustained this injury as a result of a sudden misstep with his left foot into a hole, while he was trekking across muddy countryside. Clinical examination of the knee revealed skin ecchymosis, swelling and tenderness over the distal thigh. Plain radiographs showed patella baja, and the scheduled magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed interrupted continuity of the quadriceps tendon and the patella. A diagnosis of quadriceps tendon rupture was made and the patient was scheduled to undergo surgical intervention the following day. Rehabilitation exercise program: A well-structured rehabilitation exercise program was followed in order to ensure rapid recovery and good functional outcomes. His postoperative course progressed normally, demonstrating a return to the normal activities of daily living at 6 weeks, full active range of motion at 16 weeks, and return to sports recreational activities at 5 months. Conclusions: An early surgical treatment and subsequently a well-structured rehabilitation exercise program have contributed to maximize the functional outcomes of the patient and provide a rapid and safe return to the activities of daily living (7th week) with participation in non-contact sports after the 18th week. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Vasiliadis, Angelo V.; Maris, Alexandros; Saridis, Antonios] Gen Hosp Katerini, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Katerini, Greece; [Tsoupli, Aikaterini] Private Phys Therapy Praxis, Katerini, Greece; [Vasiliadis, Angelo V.] K Varnali 45, Thessaloniki 55534, Greece								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600013	30	Article; Article		
J	Namazi, Parisa; Zarei, Mostafa; Hovanloo, Fariborz; Abbasi, Hamed								The association between the isokinetic muscle strength and lower extremity injuries in young male football players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				76	81		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.013			SEP 2019	2019	Background: Validating any screening test to predict and prevent football injuries is in need of identifying related risk factors through prospective designs. In spite of the extensive use of strength testing in football players, there are limited studies investigating the relationship between isokinetic muscle strength and injury risk in young football players. The present study aimed to evaluate the relationship between isokinetic strength and the risk of lower extremity injury among Iranian young football players. Method: ology: seventy three U-21 football players participated in this study. Isokinetic strength of hip, knee and ankle muscles were measured using the Isokinetic system pro 4. Injuries and exposure in training and matches were registered prospectively by club medical staff for one season. Results: Significant relationships were revealed between the isokinetic strength of hip abductor and adductor muscles, and isokinetic strength ratio of hip abductor/adductor muscles at an angular speed of 30 degrees/sec, the isokinetic strength of hip abductor muscles at 90 degrees/sec, and isokinetic strength of knee flexor and extensor muscles at 60 degrees/sec and knee flexor/extensor strength ratio at angular velocities of 60 degrees/sec with the injury occurrence among football players. Conclusion: lower extremity isokinetic strength indices are associated with injuries in young male football players. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Namazi, Parisa; Zarei, Mostafa; Hovanloo, Fariborz] Shahid Beheshti Univ, Dept Sports Sci & Hlth, Velenjak Sq, Tehran 1983963113, Iran; [Abbasi, Hamed] Sport Sci Res Inst, Dept Sport Injuries & Correct Exercises, 3,5th Alley,Miremad St,Motahhari St, Tehran 1587958711, Iran; [Zarei, Mostafa] Velenjak Sq, Tehran 1983963113, Iran								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600012	36	Article; Article		
J	Lieberthal, Kevin; Paterson, Kade L.; Cook, Jill; Kiss, Zoltan; Girdwood, Michael; Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.								Prevalence and factors associated with asymptomatic Achilles tendon pathology in male distance runners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				64	68		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.006			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: This study investigated the prevalence of tendon pathology and associated factors in experienced, high mileage male endurance runners with no history of Achilles tendon pain. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Achilles tendinopathy is a debilitating running injury affecting 50% of distance runners over their lifetime. It is diagnosed through a clinical examination and imaging, usually grey scale ultrasound (US) imaging. US imaging studies have shown that pathological changes can occur in asymptomatic individuals with no tendon pain. Participants: Thirty seven male runners who had never had Achilles tendon pain. Main outcome measures: Participants completed a running history survey, had their height, body mass, waist circumference, and ankle dorsiflexion range of movement (ROM) measured, and their tendons were assessed (normal, abnormal) using US imaging. Results: Almost half (46%) of these asymptomatic distance runners had at least one abnormal tendon. The runners with tendon pathology had significantly (p = 0.024) more years of running training (abnormal: median 20 years, interquartile range 6-25.5) than runners with no pathology (normal: median 7 years, interquartile range 5-15). No other significant differences between the groups were identified. Conclusions: Asymptomatic male distance runners had a high incidence of tendon pathology. Increased running years was associated with pathology in the Achilles tendon... (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Lieberthal, Kevin] Australian Catholic Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Lieberthal, Kevin] Physio Cent Pk, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Paterson, Kade L.] Univ Melbourne, Ctr Hlth Exercise & Sports Med, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Cook, Jill; Girdwood, Michael] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Kiss, Zoltan] Imaging Olymp Pk, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sport Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, 221 Burwood Highway, Burwood, Vic 3125, Australia								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600010	30	Article; Article		
J	Eustace, Steven James; Page, Richard Michael; Greig, Matt								Isokinetic strength differences between elite senior and youth female soccer players identifies training requirements								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				45	51		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.008			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: To compare traditional and angle-specific isokinetic strength of eccentric knee flexors and concentric knee extensors in female senior professional and youth soccer players. Design: Cross-sectional study design. Setting: University's Laboratory. Participants: A total of 34 players (17 seniors [age 25.31 +/- 4.51 years; height 167.89 +/- 7.04 cm; mass 63.12 +/- 7.79 kg] and 17 youths [16.91 +/- 1.16 years; height 165.92 +/- 4.42 cm; mass 60.07 +/- 4.48 kg]) from the Women's Super League 1 completed strength assessments at 180, 270 and 60 degrees.s(-1). Main outcome measures: Peak torque (PT), dynamic control ratio (DCR), angle of peak torque (APT), functional range (FR), angle-specific torque (AST) and angle-specific DCR (DCRAST) were compared between age groups. Results: The PT (P = 0.016) AST (P = 0.041) were significantly higher in seniors compared to youths; however APT (P = 0.141), DCR (P = 0.524) FR (P = 0.821) and DCRAST (P = 0.053) were not significant between playing age. Conclusion: The use of absolute and angle-specific strength measures were able to distinguish between female playing ages, whereas DCR and DCRAST was unable to identify differences. The PT and AST metrics may be the most useful metrics to help identify and inform training needs, particularly in youths. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Eustace, Steven James] Coventry Univ, Sch Life Sci Sci & Hlth Bldg, 20 Whitefriars St, Coventry CV1 2DS, W Midlands, England; [Eustace, Steven James; Page, Richard Michael; Greig, Matt] Edge Hill Univ, Sports Injuries Res Grp, Dept Sport & Phys Act, St Helens Rd, Ormskirk L39 4QP, England; [Eustace, Steven James] Coventry Univ, Sch Life Sci Sci & Hlth Bldg, 20 Whitefriars St, Coventry CV1 2DS, W Midlands, England								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600008	38	Article; Article		
J	Salhab, Hamza A.; Fares, Mohamad Y.; Khachfe, Hussein H.; Fares, Jawad								Musculoskeletal lower limb injuries in Major League Baseball								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				38	43		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.007			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: To explore the epidemiological patterns and musculoskeletal characteristics of lower limb injuries in Major League Baseball (MLB). Design: Descriptive epidemiological study. Setting: The MLB was screened for injuries between 2010 and 2016, inclusive. Participants: Players that were placed on the Disabled List (DL) and had lower limb injuries. Main outcome measures: Our database entailed the player's position, injury location, injury cause, and time spent on the DL. Analysis of characteristics and mean incidence rates (MIR) were conducted, and P values<0.05 were considered significant (CI 95%). Results: A total of 3546 injuries were recorded; 1053 injuries (29.7%) affected the lower limbs (n = 1053). On average, 150.4 players per season were placed on the DL for a mean of 45.7 days. Thighs were the most common site of injury, whereas hip injuries had the highest average days on DL (62 days). Fielders had a significantly higher MIR of lower leg injuries when compared to pitchers (P = 0.007) and catchers (P = 0.024), and a significantly higher MIR of foot injuries than that of pitchers (P = 0.035). April was the month with the highest number of injuries (224 injuries, 21.3%). Only 43(4%) injuries required surgical intervention. Conclusion: Lower limb injuries are increasing in the MLB. Understanding the neuromuscular patterns of injuries will help in extrapolating better prevention policies. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Salhab, Hamza A.; Fares, Mohamad Y.; Khachfe, Hussein H.] Amer Univ Beirut, Fac Med, Beirut, Lebanon; [Salhab, Hamza A.; Fares, Mohamad Y.; Khachfe, Hussein H.] Lebanese Univ, Fac Med Sci, Neurosci Res Ctr, Beirut, Lebanon; [Fares, Jawad] Northwestern Univ, Dept Neurol Surg, Feinberg Sch Med, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Fares, Jawad] Northwestern Univ, Dept Neurol Surg, Feinberg Sch Med, Chicago, IL 60611 USA								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600006	28	Article; Article		
J	Haines, Matthew R.; Fish, Michael; O'Sullivan, David								Seasonal changes in glenohumeral joint isokinetic strength in professional rugby league players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				32	37		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.06.005			SEP 2019	2019	Objective: To assess glenohumeral joint (GHJ) rotation strength across a rugby league season, since strength of rotator cuff musculature may protect against contact injuries to the shoulder. Design: A prospective cohort study was used to compare GHJ rotation pre-, in-, and post-season. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Twenty-nine players from a professional European Super League club. Main outcome measures: Isokinetic dynamometry for concentric and eccentric muscle actions for shoulder internal and external rotation at 240 degrees/s. Peak torque, traditional strength ratios, and dynamic control ratios were compared. Results: There were no significant differences between peak torque strength parameters at any time point. Similarly, differences in strength ratios failed to reach statistical significance across the season. Ipsilateral strength ratios were indicative of selective strengthening of internal rotators for concentric and eccentric muscle actions. Conclusions: The findings suggest that rugby league players are no more likely to sustain a shoulder injury in the latter stages of the season as a result of decreased GHJ rotation strength. Players were able to maintain strength across the season which is valuable to practitioners developing conditioning programmes to optimise performance and minimise the risk of injury. This may afford protection, particularly during forced external rotation following physical contact. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Haines, Matthew R.; Fish, Michael] Univ Huddersfield, Div Sport Exercise & Nutr Sci, Huddersfield, W Yorkshire, England; [O'Sullivan, David] ProSport Acad Ltd, Huddersfield, W Yorkshire, England; [Haines, Matthew R.] Univ Huddersfield, Sch Human & Hlth Sci, Queensgate Campus, Huddersfield HD1 3DH, W Yorkshire, England								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600005	38	Article; Article		
J	Bodendorfer, Blake M.; Arnold, Nicholas R.; Shu, Henry T.; Leary, Emily, V; Cook, James L.; Gray, Aaron D.; Guess, Trent M.; Sherman, Seth L.								Do neoprene sleeves and prophylactic knee braces affect neuromuscular control and cutting agility?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				39				23	31		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.05.007			SEP 2019	2019	Objectives: To evaluate the effects of neoprene sleeves (NSs) and prophylactic knee braces (PKBs) on neuromuscular control and cutting agility. Design: Markerless motion-capture technology tracked subjects (1) without a brace as a control (2) with NSs and (3) with PKBs during single-leg drop vertical jump (SLDVJ), single-leg squat (SLS), Y-excursion, and cutting movements. Movements were recorded five times per bracing condition in three different sessions. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: Ten healthy, active subjects (5 male, 5 female; age range, 22-26 years). Main outcome measures: Degrees of motion and time to completion. Results: Use of NSs and PKBs reduced subjects' hip internal rotation in the loading phase of SLDVJ (p = 0.026, 0.02) and SLS (p = 0.005, <0.001), reduced knee flexion in the loading phase of SLDVJ (p = 0.038, <0.001), and reduced knee frontal plane abduction (FPA) with SLS (p = 0.015, 0.024) and Y-excursion (p = 0.002, 0.005) compared to control. Use of PKBs decreased subjects' hip internal rotation in the Y-excursion (p = 0.024) and reduced knee FPA in the SLDVJ loading phase (p = 0.014) compared to control. There was no difference in cutting agility for either group (p = 0.145, 0.347). Conclusion: Both NSs and PKBs positively impacted neuromuscular control without impacting cutting agility. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bodendorfer, Blake M.; Shu, Henry T.] MedStar Georgetown Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Washington, DC USA; [Arnold, Nicholas R.] Univ Iowa Hosp & Clin, Dept Internal Med, Iowa City, IA 52242 USA; [Leary, Emily, V; Cook, James L.; Gray, Aaron D.; Guess, Trent M.; Sherman, Seth L.] Univ Missouri Hlth Care, Columbia, MO USA; [Bodendorfer, Blake M.] Georgetown Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Med Ctr, 3800 Reservoir Rd NW,PHC Ground Floor, Washington, DC 20007 USA								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000487174600004	57	Article; Article		
J	Ganzevles, Sander P. M.; Beek, Peter J.; Daanen, Hein A. M.; Coolen, Bart M. A.; Truijens, Martin J.								Differences in swimming smoothness between elite and non-elite swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				22	5			675	688		10.1080/14763141.2019.1650102			MAY 4 2023	2023	Indeed the abstract now contains more words. Please correct to: The aim of the study was to investigate whether jerk cost (JC) can discriminate between swimming levels. Nine elite and nine non-elite swimmers swam a 50-m front-crawl sprint wearing a 3D accelerometer on their back between the inferior angles of the scapulae. Lap times and JC were calculated from the acceleration signal and compared between groups and between swimmers within a group. The elite swimmers swam significantly faster lap times than the non-elite swimmers (p < 0.001). They did so with significantly lower levels of JC compared to the non-elite swimmers (p = 0.005). Furthermore, a stepwise multiple linear regression showed JC accounted for 32.9% of the variation in lap time of the elite swimmers. These results indicate that it is possible to discriminate elite from non-elite swimmers using JC: elite swimmers swim with lower JCs than non-elite swimmers. Additionally, swimming at higher speed is associated with more accelerations and decelerations in both elite and non-elite swimmers, which is reflected by higher JCs and lower smoothness. In sum, JC provides an index of swimming technique that is easy to use in training practice.		[Ganzevles, Sander P. M.; Beek, Peter J.; Daanen, Hein A. M.; Coolen, Bart M. A.; Truijens, Martin J.] Free Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Ganzevles, Sander P. M.] Free Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands								30							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484334200001	33	Article; Article		
J	Tsuda, Emi; Goodway, Jacqueline D.; Famelia, Run; Brian, Ali								Relationship Between Fundamental Motor Skill Competence, Perceived Physical Competence and Free-Play Physical Activity in Children								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				91	1			55	63		10.1080/02701367.2019.1646851			JAN 2 2020	2020	Purpose: This study examined the extent to which fundamental motor skill competence (FMSC; locomotor and object control skill competence) and perceived physical competence (PPC) predicted physical activity levels and sedentary behaviors during free-play time at preschool. Method: A total of 72 children (girls n = 33, boys n = 39; M-age = 4.38, SD = .85 years) were recruited from two preschools. Fundamental motor skill competence was measured using the Test of Gross Motor Development - 2nd edition, and PPC was assessed using the physical competence subscale of the Pictorial Scale of Perceived Competence and Social Acceptance. Physical activity was measured using accelerometers. Results: Children engaged in light physical activity 19.66%, and moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) 36.41%, and sedentary behaviors 43.94% of their free-play time. Since no correlation was observed in light physical activity with any variables, a hierarchical multiple linear regression was run for MVPA and sedentary behaviors. The results illustrated 38.9% of the variance in MVPA during free-play time was predicted by FMSC and PPC, after controlling for age and sex, with locomotor skill competence as a significant predictor (t= 2.98, p < .05). For sedentary behaviors, the 32.9% of the variance during free-play time was predicted by FMSC and PPC, after controlling age and sex, with locomotor skill competence as a significant predictor (t = 2.72, p < .05). Conclusion: The findings highlight the importance of developing FMSC and positive PPC during early childhood to enhance physical activity engagement during free-play.		[Tsuda, Emi] West Virginia Univ, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Goodway, Jacqueline D.; Famelia, Run] Ohio State Univ, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Brian, Ali] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Tsuda, Emi] West Virginia Univ, Coll Phys Act & Sport Sci, Room 252 CPASS Bldg,375 Birch St, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								35							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484263600001	46	Article; Article		
J	McLoughlin, Gabriella M.; Richards, K. Andrew R.; Ivy, Victoria Nicole								A Longitudinal Study of the Transition from Doctoral Student to Faculty Member in Physical Education								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			699	711		10.1080/02701367.2019.1645940			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: A paucity of literature examines how doctoral students are prepared for the transition into physical education teacher education faculty roles. Given the need to understand how doctoral programs impact such preparation, we sought to investigate this process using a longitudinal approach grounded in occupational socialization theory. Method: Fourteen participants (8 males, 6 female) were interviewed during final stages of doctoral programs and their first years in faculty positions; questions focused on key socializing agents and experiences that shaped their preparation for their academic careers. Data were analyzed using a constant comparison approach entailing open and axial coding. Results: Strong advisor-advisee relationships and finding a supportive department culture during one's first faculty position were key socializing mechanisms. Participants who independently sought research experiences transitioned more smoothly into faculty roles; however, many had heavy teaching loads which conflicted with ambitions to regularly conduct research. Further, some faculty members experienced tense sociopolitical environments which hindered their productivity and confidence in current job roles. Conclusions: Our results speak to the challenges and successes that faculty members experience as they transition into the academy. Findings have implications for further research and practice to enhance the quality of doctoral education and faculty induction programs.		[McLoughlin, Gabriella M.] Iowa State Univ, Ames, IA 50011 USA; [Richards, K. Andrew R.] Univ Illinois, Urbana, IL USA; [Ivy, Victoria Nicole] Univ West Georgia, Carrollton, GA USA; [McLoughlin, Gabriella M.] Iowa State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 247 Forker Bldg,534 Wallace Rd, Ames, IA 50011 USA								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484263800001	55	Article; Article		
J	Deschamps, Kevin; Eerdekens, Maarten; Peters, Helen; Matricali, Giovanni Arnoldo; Staes, Filip								Multi-segment foot kinematics during running and its association with striking patterns								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	1			71	84		10.1080/14763141.2019.1645203			JAN 2 2022	2022	There is an ongoing debate regarding the advantages and harms of different running striking patterns. The purpose of this study was to explore the kinematic differences between running with a midfoot- and rearfoot striking (RFS) pattern. Multi-segment foot kinematics of 12 students were assessed while running barefoot at 3.3 m/s (+/- 10%) using a passive optoelectronic motion analysis system. Participants performed multiple running trials while landing on the rearfoot and midfoot. Comparison of the kinematic waveforms was performed using one-dimensional statistical parametric mapping (1DSPM) (paired t-test). The inter-segment angle between the shank and calcaneus was found to be significantly more plantar-flexed, more inverted and more adducted in the midfoot striking (MFS) condition compared to the RFS pattern. The calcaneus-midfoot inter-segment angle was found to be more plantar-flexed in the MFS condition. The downward angulation of the metatarsals and the medial longitudinal arch angle in the late swing phase was found to be more pronounced during MFS. Differences between midfoot and RFS patterns occur in the first sub-phase of stance (0-50% of the stance phase). These findings may be of interest for the kinesiopathological or pathokinesiological reasoning processes when facing foot- and lower limb-related running injuries.		[Deschamps, Kevin; Eerdekens, Maarten; Peters, Helen; Staes, Filip] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Musculoskeletal Rehabil Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [Deschamps, Kevin; Eerdekens, Maarten] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Lab Clin Mot Anal, Univ Hosp Pellenberg, Leuven, Belgium; [Deschamps, Kevin] Parnasse Int Soc Early Intervent, Dept Podiatry, Brussels, Belgium; [Deschamps, Kevin] Artevelde Univ Coll Ghent, Dept Podiatry, Ghent, Belgium; [Matricali, Giovanni Arnoldo] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Dev & Regenerat, Leuven, Belgium; [Matricali, Giovanni Arnoldo] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Orthopaed, Foot & Ankle Unit, Univ Hosp Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; [Deschamps, Kevin] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Musculoskeletal Rehabil Res Grp, Leuven, Belgium; [Deschamps, Kevin] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Lab Clin Mot Anal, Univ Hosp Pellenberg, Leuven, Belgium; [Deschamps, Kevin] Parnasse Int Soc Early Intervent, Dept Podiatry, Brussels, Belgium; [Deschamps, Kevin] Artevelde Univ Coll Ghent, Dept Podiatry, Ghent, Belgium								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484472600001	24	Article; Article		
J	Marchetti, Paulo H.; Miyatake, Marcelo M. S.; Magalhaes, Roberto A.; Gomes, Willy A.; Da Silva, Josinaldo J.; Brigatto, Felipe A.; Zanini, Thamires C. C.; Behm, David G.								Different volumes and intensities of static stretching affect the range of motion and muscle force output in well-trained subjects								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	2			155	164		10.1080/14763141.2019.1648540			FEB 7 2022	2022	The manipulation of the volume and intensity of static stretching (SS) can affect the range of motion (ROM) and muscle force output. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of two different SS protocols with different intensities (50% and 85% POD) and volumes (120-s and 240-s) on ROM, peak force, and muscle activity during maximal isometric leg curl exercise in well-trained participants. Fifteen young males (age:27.5 +/- 6.1years, height:175.6 +/- 4.7cm, and body mass:81.5 +/- 10.4kg, 6 +/- 2 years of resistance training experience) performed passive hip flexion with two different SS protocols: six stretches of 40-s, with 15-sec rest between each stretch at 50% of the point of discomfort (POD) and three stretches of 40-s, with 15-sec rest between each stretch at 85%POD. The passive hip flexion ROM, biceps femoris muscle activation (integrated electromyography: IEMG), and knee flexors force were monitored during a 3-s maximal voluntary isometric leg curl exercise. ROM increased between pre- and post-intervention for both SS protocols (50%POD: p = 0.016, Delta% = 4.6% and 85%POD: p < 0.001, Delta% = 11.42%). Peak force decreased between pre- and post-intervention only for 85%POD (p = 0.004, Delta% = 23.6%). There were no significant IEMG differences. In conclusion, both SS protocols increased ROM, however, the high-intensity and short-duration SS protocol decreased peak force.		[Marchetti, Paulo H.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Miyatake, Marcelo M. S.; Brigatto, Felipe A.; Zanini, Thamires C. C.] Univ Metodista Piracicaba, Grad Program Sci Human Movement, Piracicaba, Brazil; [Magalhaes, Roberto A.] Mogi Guacu Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Mogi Guacu, Brazil; [Gomes, Willy A.; Da Silva, Josinaldo J.] Nove Julho Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Marchetti, Paulo H.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484472000001	30	Article; Article		
J	Perez, Jerome; Guilhem, Gael; Brocherie, Franck								Reliability of the force-velocity-power variables during ice hockey sprint acceleration								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	1			56	70		10.1080/14763141.2019.1648541			JAN 2 2022	2022	The aims of this study were to ensure that the skating velocity describes a mono-exponential function in order to determine the reliability of radar-derived profiling results from skating sprint accelerations applying sprint running force-velocity assessment approach. Eleven young highly-trained female ice hockey players performed two 40-m skating sprints on two separate days to evaluate inter-trial and test-retest reliability. The velocity-time data recorded by a radar device was used to calculate the kinetics variables of the skating sprint acceleration: maximal theoretical force (F-0), maximal theoretical velocity (V-0), maximal theoretical power (P-max) and the slope of the linear force-velocity relationship (S-FV). S-FV and S-FVrel variables (the slope of the linear relationship between horizontal force relative to body mass and velocity) demonstrated 'low' to 'moderate' intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC). All other variables revealed 'acceptable' inter-trial and test-retest reliability (ICC >= 0.75 and coefficient of variation [CV] <= 10%). Furthermore, test-retest reliability (ICC and CV) and sensitivity [Standard Error of Measurement (SEMs) <= Small Worthwhile Change (SWCs)] were higher when averaging the two trials compared to the best trial (40-m split time) only. These findings offer a promising and simple method to monitor training-induced changes in macroscopic mechanical variables of ice hockey skating performance.		[Perez, Jerome; Guilhem, Gael; Brocherie, Franck] French Inst Sport, Res Dept, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, Paris, France; [Perez, Jerome] French Federat Ice Hockey, French Women Acad Ice Hockey, Chambery, France; [Brocherie, Franck] French Inst Sport, Res Dept, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, Paris, France								29							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484472300001	43	Article; Article		
J	De la Fuente, Carlos; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Gallardo-Fuentes, Francisco; Alvarez, Cristian; Bustamante, Carlos; Henriquez, Hugo; Carpes, Felipe P.								Pattern analysis of a complete Achilles tendon rupture suffered during high jump preparation in an official national-level athletic competition								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	3			312	322		10.1080/14763141.2019.1651897			MAR 16 2022	2022	Elite athletes are subject to injuries like the Achilles tendon rupture. This injury requires a long recovery process, with no guarantee of returning to the pre-injury level. When a rupture happens during natural life, movement analysis can provide useful insights concerning patterns of rupture to understand and prevent Achilles tendon injuries. Here we determined the pattern of rupture of an Achilles tendon (AT) in an elite high-jumper athlete who ruptured an AT during the straight line running phase in preparation for a high-jump attempt. This study is a novel case report regarding a national-level elite athlete. The main outcomes were kinematics parameters obtained from video analysis. The pattern of the rupture was determined by pixel intensity and outlier analysis. The rupture occurred at 44% of the single stance. The injured leg showed a higher ankle dorsal flexion and knee-ankle ratio, and a lower knee flexion compared to contralateral leg. An eccentric pattern of rupture occurred during the transition from the mid to terminal stance phases of running. The lower knee flexion and the increased ankle dorsal flexion during the stance suggest a loss of knee-ankle coordination. This might have favoured a major elongation of Achilles tendon causing the rupture.		[De la Fuente, Carlos] Univ Andes, Sch Kinesiol, Integrat Lab Biomech & Efft Physiol, Santiago, Chile; [De la Fuente, Carlos; Henriquez, Hugo] Santa Maria Clin, Ctr Sport Hlth, Santiago, Chile; [De la Fuente, Carlos] Fed Univ Pampa, Lab Neuromech, Uruguaiana, Brazil; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Gallardo-Fuentes, Francisco; Alvarez, Cristian] Pontificia Univ Catolica Chile, Fac Med, Dept Hlth Sci, Kinesiol Carrer, Santiago, Chile; [Bustamante, Carlos] Univ Lakes, Dept Phys Act Sci, Qual Life & Wellness Grp, Lab Human Performance, Osorno, Chile; [Henriquez, Hugo] Integral Ctr Med & Exercise, Puerto Montt, Chile; [Carpes, Felipe P.] Univ Chile, Fac Med, Traumatol & Orthopaed, Santiago, Chile; [Carpes, Felipe P.] Univ Chile, Fac Med, Traumatol & Orthopaed, Santiago, Chile								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000484491300001	21	Article; Article		
J	Gorman, Anthony J.; Willmott, Alexander P.; Mullineaux, David R.								The effects of concurrent biomechanical biofeedback on novel skill acquisition								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	3			297	311		10.1080/14763141.2019.1650101			MAR 16 2022	2022	The aim of this study was to assess the effects of concurrent biomechanical biofeedback on the ability of novices to modify relative knee, spine, and elbow motions during a rowing-type task. After six non-instructed practice sessions, novices were assigned to a biofeedback (BFb; n = 7) or control group (Con; n = 7), before six, ten-minute sessions of continuous rowing were performed over 2 weeks. The BFb group received concurrent, visual biofeedback for developing sequential timing of knee, spine, and elbow motions during the pull. Following the intervention, the BFb group demonstrated delayed elbow flexion initiation (pre-intervention, 46 +/- 11% pull; post-intervention, 78 +/- 3% pull; p = 0.001). The biofeedback further promoted the consecutive ending of joint rotations (BFb: knee, 69 +/- 4% pull; spine, 73 +/- 7% pull; elbow, 85 +/- 3% pull; Con: knee, 79 +/- 8% pull; spine, 28 +/- 6% pull; elbow, 79 +/- 4% pull) and a move towards the sequential sequencing pattern. Concurrent biomechanical biofeedback during short-term training altered technique, possibly by providing guidance towards the desired movement pattern and increasing error detection and correction capabilities.		[Gorman, Anthony J.; Willmott, Alexander P.; Mullineaux, David R.] Univ Lincoln, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Lincoln, England; [Gorman, Anthony J.] Univ Lincoln, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Lincoln, England								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000483484200001	27	Article; Article		
J	Leeds, Michael A.; Ngoc Tram Nguyen Pham								Productivity, Rents, and the Salaries of Group of Five Football Coaches								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	1			3	19	1527002519867384	10.1177/1527002519867384			JAN 2020	2020	Standard labor market theory says that workers are paid their marginal revenue product (MRP). However, firm revenue is sometimes independent of the productivity of individual workers. This often occurs in professional sports, as the bulk of a team's revenue comes from league-wide TV contracts negotiated years in advance. This is also true for head coaches at "Group of Five" schools, which form the second tier of college football programs. We show that a coach's performance affects both his MRP and his bargaining power over the division of exogenous rents that accrue to his program.		[Leeds, Michael A.; Ngoc Tram Nguyen Pham] Temple Univ, Dept Econ, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Leeds, Michael A.] Temple Univ, Dept Econ, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA								10							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000483441500001	25	Article; Article		
J	Filanowski, Patrick M.; Iannotti, Ronald J.; Crouter, Scott E.; Vermeulen, Anne; Schmidt, Ellyn M.; Hoffman, Jessica A.; Castaneda-Sceppa, Carmen; Milliken, Laurie A.								The Effects of Varying Structured Physical Activity Duration on Young Children's and Parents' Activity Levels								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			578	588		10.1080/02701367.2019.1639600			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine whether structured physical activity (PA) in a family-based community exercise program affects PA of young children and parents. Method: Twenty-two children (mean +/- SD; age, 4.9 +/- 2.1 years) and their parents (age, 34.3 +/- 7.6 years) participated in unstructured PA sessions followed by either short- or long-duration structured PA sessions, while wearing an ActiGraph GT9X activity monitor on their right hip to estimate PA. Independent t-tests compared children's and parents' PA during short- and long-structured PA sessions. Paired t-tests compared short- versus long-structured PA sessions. A mixed model ANOVA compared PA during unstructured versus structured sessions and between children and parents. Results: Children spent proportionately more time in moderate-to-vigorous PA (MVPA) and had higher accelerometer counts/min than parents during short-structured PA (children:60.9 +/- 18.8% vs. parents:17.7 +/- 6.8%, children:3870 +/- 742 vs. parents:1836 +/- 556 counts/min, p < .05) and long-structured PA (children:61.1 +/- 20.1% vs. parents:12.6 +/- 4.9%, children:3415 +/- 758 vs. parents:1604 +/- 633 counts/min, p < .05). No statistical differences were found between short- and long-structured PA sessions for proportion of time spent in MVPA or counts/min for children or parents (all, p > .05). Children spent proportionally more time in MVPA and had higher counts/min during unstructured PA compared to structured PA (unstructured MVPA:54.4 +/- 3.9% vs. structured MVPA:38.2 +/- 4.2%, unstructured counts/min:3830 +/- 222 vs. structured counts/min:2768 +/- 239 counts/min; p < .05). Conclusions: Children were more active than parents during both the unstructured and structured PA sessions. However, unstructured PA sessions resulted in 63-77% and 10-11% of PA recommendations for children and adults, respectively. Family-based exercise programming can provide an opportunity for children and their parents to attain MVPA during the week.		[Filanowski, Patrick M.] Xavier Univ, Cincinnati, OH 45207 USA; [Iannotti, Ronald J.] CDM Grp Inc, Bethesda, MD USA; [Crouter, Scott E.] Univ Tennessee Knoxville, Knoxville, TN USA; [Vermeulen, Anne; Milliken, Laurie A.] Univ Massachusetts Boston, Boston, MA USA; [Schmidt, Ellyn M.; Hoffman, Jessica A.; Castaneda-Sceppa, Carmen] Northeastern Univ, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Filanowski, Patrick M.] Xavier Univ, Dept Sport Studies, 3800 Victory Pkwy, Cincinnati, OH 45207 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000482510500001	33	Article; Article		
J	Camire, Martin; Rathwell, Scott; Turgeon, Stephanie; Kendellen, Kelsey								Coach-athlete relationships, basic psychological needs satisfaction and thwarting, and the teaching of life skills in Canadian high school sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	5			591	606	1747954119869542	10.1177/1747954119869542			OCT 2019	2019	High school sport is one of the most popular school-based extracurricular activities in North America, situated as a developmental activity during which coaches can foster quality relationships with students to promote basic psychological needs satisfaction and teach life skills. The primary purpose of the study was to examine associations between coach-athlete relationships, basic psychological needs satisfaction and thwarting, and the teaching of life skills in Canadian high school sport. The secondary purpose consisted of addressing the psychometric properties of the scales employed in the study, namely the Coach-Athlete Relationship Questionnaire, the self-report version of the Interpersonal Behaviors Questionnaire, and a modified coach version of the Life Skills Scale for Sport. The sample was comprised of 1238 (58.8% male) Canadian high school coaches and the data were analysed using structural equation modelling. The mediated model indicated that coaches' perceptions of their interpersonal behaviours satisfying athletes' basic psychological needs either fully or partially mediated the positive relationships between coach-athlete relationships and the teaching of life skills. Coach-athlete relationships, particularly those within which coaches exhibit interpersonal behaviours that satisfy athletes' basic psychological needs, appear to be associated with the teaching of life skills in the context of high school sport.		[Camire, Martin; Kendellen, Kelsey] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, 125 Univ Private, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada; [Rathwell, Scott] Univ Lethbridge, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Lethbridge, AB, Canada; [Turgeon, Stephanie] Univ Montreal, Sch Psychoeduc, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Camire, Martin] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, 125 Univ Private, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada								44							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000483328000001	67	Article; Article		
J	Berardi, Marco; Lenabat, Pascal; Fabre, Thierry; Ballas, Richard								Beach tennis injuries: a cross-sectional survey of 206 elite and recreational players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	2			173	178		10.1080/00913847.2019.1650307			APR 2 2020	2020	Objectives: Although a million people regularly play beach tennis (BT) through the world there is no published information on BT injuries. The aim of this study was to describe the epidemiology of BT injuries, and to identify differences between injured and non-injured players. Methods: This was a retrospective cross-sectional epidemiology study of 206 BT players from Reunion Island describing the injuries occurring in BT. A questionnaire was developed to capture the type and chronicity of the injuries they had suffered over the prior three years. Comparisons were made between elite, regional and recreational players. Results: There were 178 injuries in 92 players (44.7%), which was an incidence of 1.81 injuries per 1000 hours of play. There were 77 acute injuries (23.8% of players, incidence of 0.78 injuries/1000 hrs.) and 101 chronic injuries (30.6% of players, incidence of 1.03 injuries/1000 hrs.). The shoulder was the most frequently injured area. The main upper limb injuries were chronic tendinopathy while most acute injuries occurred in the lower limbs. The incidence of lateral epicondylitis at the elbow was 0.36 per 1000 hours of play, or a prevalence of 4.2%. The incidence of injuries in elite players was less than that in non-ranked players (1.71 vs 2.04 injuries/1000 hours play). Recreational players more often had chronic injuries (p < 0.001). Conclusion: Information about musculoskeletal injuries is invaluable for healthcare professionals involved in the care of athletes. Such knowledge can be used to guide the medical surveillance of athletes and to help develop injury prevention strategies.		[Berardi, Marco] Ctr Hosp Robert Boulin, Serv Med, Libourne, France; [Lenabat, Pascal] Ctr Hosp Gabriel Martin, Serv Med Sport, St Paul, France; [Fabre, Thierry] CHU Bordeaux, Serv Chirurg Orthoped & Traumatol, Bordeaux, France; [Ballas, Richard] Ctr Hosp Gabriel Martin, Serv Chirurg Orthoped, 38 Rue Labourdonnais, F-97460 St Paul, La Reunion, France; [Ballas, Richard] Ctr Hosp Gabriel Martin, Serv Chirurg Orthoped, 38 Rue Labourdonnais, F-97460 St Paul, La Reunion, France								23							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000481890700001	21	Article; Article		
J	Becker, Kevin A.; Fairbrother, Jeffrey T.								The use of multiple externally directed attentional focus cues facilitates motor learning								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	5			651	657	1747954119870172	10.1177/1747954119870172			OCT 2019	2019	Attentional focus research consistently suggests that the use of an external focus of attention improves motor learning and performance relative to an internal focus. It appears, however, that external focus cues are not frequently adopted in applied sport settings. One issue that may contribute to this disparity relates to variability in how cues are employed in research and practice. Experimental research tends to use a single-cue approach, while in sports, athletes often sample several cues within the same practice. A limitation of the single-cue approach is that attentional focus effects could be due either to focus direction (internal vs. external) or to the relative effectiveness of a particular cue (e.g. an effective externally focused cue vs. an ineffective internally focused cue). This study tested whether external focus benefits generalize to situations in which participants use multiple cues of the same type throughout acquisition. Volunteers (N = 22) learned a dart throwing task while using three internally or externally focused cues. Results indicated an external focus led to lower error scores during acquisition and a delayed retention test (p's < .05). These results demonstrate that the external focus benefit generalizes to situations where a performer uses multiple cues.		[Becker, Kevin A.] Texas Womans Univ, Sch Hlth Promot & Kinesiol, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Fairbrother, Jeffrey T.] Univ Tennessee Knoxville, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TX USA; [Becker, Kevin A.] POB 425647, Denton, TX 76204 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000483264000001	37	Article; Article		
J	Courty, Pascal; Davey, Luke								The Impact of Variable Pricing, Dynamic Pricing, and Sponsored Secondary Markets in Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	2			115	138	1527002519867367	10.1177/1527002519867367			FEB 2020	2020	Toward the end of the 1990s and into the 2000s, Major League Baseball teams moved away from fixed ticket prices, to first setting prices according to expected game demand, and subsequently to dynamically changing prices in response to demand. Teams have also collaborated with secondary ticket marketplaces to sponsor resale. By exploiting a team panel covering seasons 1999-2017, we use fixed effect models to estimate the impact of these pricing innovations on team revenue and team value. Variable pricing increases revenue and team value by 4.2% and 9.5%, respectively. The introduction of dynamic pricing and sponsored secondary markets has no statistically significant effect on revenue or team value.		[Courty, Pascal] Univ Victoria, Econ, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Davey, Luke] Univ Victoria, Victoria, BC V8P 5C2, Canada; [Courty, Pascal] Univ Victoria, Victoria, BC V8P 5C2, Canada								19							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000483187700001	35	Article; Article		
J	Sanz-Remacha, Maria; Garcia-Gonzalez, Luis; Sevil Serrano, Javier; Generelo Lanaspa, Eduardo; Aibar Solana, Alberto								Barriers to Physical Activity in Disadvantaged Population: A Qualitative Comparison between Roma and Non-Roma Women								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			567	577		10.1080/02701367.2019.1635245			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: Despite the well-known health benefits of physical activity (PA), disadvantaged populations usually have lower PA levels than the rest of the population. Some intra- and interpersonal factors such as different types of barriers to PA may influence PA levels, particularly among disadvantaged adult women. The first aim of this qualitative study was to identify the barriers to PA perceived by disadvantaged adult women. The second aim was to analyse the differences in perceived barriers to PA between adult Roma and non-Roma women. Methods: Eleven disadvantaged adult women participated in the current study (M = 37.72; SD = 8.34), seven of whom belonged to the Roma population. Data were obtained from discussion groups as well as from one-to-one interviews, and these were analysed by NVivo Pro 11. Results: Three categories of perceived barriers to PA were identified: personal (i.e., economy, labour, physical limitations, illness, and psychological characteristics) social (i.e., culture, lack of social support, and family), and environmental. Family was identified as the main common and most frequent barrier to PA in disadvantaged adult women. Differences in perceived barriers to PA between adult Roma and non-Roma women were found. While Roma women perceived culture, physical limitations, and lack of social support barriers to PA, non-Roma women mainly perceived labour-related barriers to PA. Conclusions: Multilevel interventions addressing specific barriers to PA for disadvantaged adult women are required to overcome barriers to PA and, consequently, increase PA levels. Particular attention should be paid to specific barriers to PA among adult Roma and non-Roma women, respectively.		[Sanz-Remacha, Maria; Garcia-Gonzalez, Luis; Sevil Serrano, Javier; Generelo Lanaspa, Eduardo; Aibar Solana, Alberto] Univ Zaragoza, Huesca, Spain; [Sanz-Remacha, Maria] Univ Zaragoza, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Plaza Univ 3, Huesca 22001, Spain								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000480592000001	37	Article; Article		
J	Charkamyani, Forouzan; Hosseinkhani, Azadeh; Samani, Leila Neisani; Khedmat, Leila								Reducing the Adverse Maternal and Fetal Outcomes in IVF Women by Exercise Interventions During Pregnancy								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			589	599		10.1080/02701367.2019.1639601			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: The role of a structured program of exercise training on the low-risk pregnancy in Iranian women undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF) based on the reduction of gestational diabetes was examined. Method: A comparative quasi-experimental clinical trial with 170 IVF-pregnant women in two intervention and control groups was studied to monitor the training effect of physical activities in terms of walking, and aerobic, strength-conditioning, and relaxation exercises during pregnancy on the improvement of maternal and fetal health. Gestational diabetes as the main complication was evaluated with 2-h 75-g OGTT and FBS tests in 24-28 and 34- weeks' gestation, respectively. Other adverse maternal (e.g., preeclampsia, cesarean section, and preterm delivery) and neonatal (e.g., intrauterine growth retardation, low/high birth weight, and fetal death) outcomes were determined and analyzed by statistical and regression tests. Results: A significantly lower gestational diabetes and preeclampsia rate was found in the intervened IVF-pregnant women with the maintenance of an active lifestyle. Although there was no significant difference in other negative maternal and neonatal outcomes between the two groups, lower symptoms from these complications were recorded in IVF-pregnant women trained with regular exercise activities. Conclusion: Implementing the physical activity program by IVF-women during pregnancy is an effective intervention strategy in reducing the risk of adverse maternal and fetal outcomes.		[Charkamyani, Forouzan; Hosseinkhani, Azadeh; Samani, Leila Neisani] Iran Univ Med Sci, Tehran, Iran; [Khedmat, Leila] Baqiyatallah Univ Med Sci, Tehran, Iran; [Hosseinkhani, Azadeh] Iran Univ Med Sci, Fac Nursing & Midwifery, Tehran 1449614535, Iran								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000481207300001	43	Article; Article		
J	Bauer, Pascal; Kraushaar, Lutz; Most, Astrid; Hoelscher, Sophie; Tajmiri- Gondai, Shahin; Doerr, Oliver; Troidl, Christian; Bauer, Timm; Nef, Holger; Hamm, Christian W.; Keller, Till								Impact of Vascular Function on Maximum Power Output in Elite Handball Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			600	608		10.1080/02701367.2019.1639602			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: To evaluate vascular function and its relationship to cardiorespiratory fitness in professional handball athletes. Method: We examined 30 male professional handball athletes (age 27 +/- 4 y) and 10 male sedentary controls (age 26 +/- 5 y) at rest. The workup included exercise testing via ergometry. To assess vascular function, a validated electronic model of the arterial tree (vasc assist 2 (R)) was used. It replicates noninvasively acquired pulse pressure waves by modulating the relevant functional parameters of compliance, resistance, inertia, pressure, and flow. The maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max) was estimated using the validated heart rate ratio method. Results: Athletes had a significantly lower systolic and diastolic central blood pressure (cBP) compared to controls (102 +/- 9/60 +/- 9 vs. 110 +/- 8/74 +/- 9 mmHg, p < .01), whereas aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV) (6.2 +/- 0.8 vs. 6.3 +/- 0.5 m/s, p = .45) and augmentation index at a heart rate of 75 (Aix@75) (-4 +/- 12 vs. -13 +/- 16%, p = .06) were not different. Resistance index (R) (15.9 +/- 4.4 vs. 10.6 +/- 0.6, p = .001) and maximum power output (MPO) (3.55 +/- 0.54 vs. 2.46 +/- 0.55 Watt/kg, p < .001) were significantly higher in athletes compared to controls. We found no relevant correlation between MPO, resting heart rate, PWV, Aix@75, and cBP. A higher VO2max (p = .02) and a lower R (p < .01) were significant predictors of a higher MPO in athletes. Conclusion: R had an independent and strong correlation to MPO in athletes, which might help to disentangle the contribution of aerobic capacity and arterial function to physical power.		[Bauer, Pascal; Most, Astrid; Hoelscher, Sophie; Tajmiri- Gondai, Shahin; Doerr, Oliver; Bauer, Timm; Nef, Holger; Hamm, Christian W.] Univ Hosp Giessen & Marburg, Campus Giessen, Giessen, Germany; [Kraushaar, Lutz] Adiphea, Baden Baden, Germany; [Troidl, Christian; Hamm, Christian W.; Keller, Till] Kerckhoff Heart & Thorax Ctr, Bad Nauheim, Germany; [Bauer, Pascal] Univ Klinikum Giessen, Med Klin Kardiol & Angiol 1, D-35390 Giessen, Germany								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000481205200001	41	Article; Article		
J	Belasen, Ariel R.; Belasen, Alan T.								Revealed preferences among NBA fans: Is skin tone a factor?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	3			462	476		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2018-0087			AUG 5 2019	2019	Purpose Skin tone has been shown to impact the ability of darker-skinned athletes to maximize their earnings to potential earnings ratio. Additionally, studies of fan preference have found strong support for racial implications on team preference and ticket sales. The purpose of this paper is to test these theories empirically by examining the marginal impact of skin tone on top selling jerseys. Design/methodology/approach This study makes use of an ordered probit regression analysis to examine the impact of NBA players' skin tone on their jersey sales after controlling for a number of other factors. Jersey sales are measured in rank order and skin tone is captured by measuring the level of pigmentation in player profile photos. Findings Overall, the study finds a significantly positive relationship between skin tone and jersey sale rankings. This runs contrary to the standard literature results that darker-skinned athletes are likely to earn less and attract fewer endorsements than their lighter-skinned counterparts. More specifically, the marginal impact of skin tone is comparable to the marginal impact of individual player statistics in determining how well a player's jersey will sell. Originality/value This study provides valuable information about athlete branding and offers insights to advertisers and sponsors seeking to align the strategy of branding athletes for increased jersey sales.		[Belasen, Ariel R.] Southern Illinois Univ Edwardsville, Econ & Finance, Edwardsville, IL 62025 USA; [Belasen, Alan T.] SUNY Empire State Coll, MBA Program, Saratoga Springs, NY 12866 USA; [Belasen, Ariel R.] Southern Illinois Univ Edwardsville, Econ & Finance, Edwardsville, IL 62025 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475500006	69	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Minkil; Zhang, James								Structural relationship between market demand and member commitment associated with the marketing of martial arts programs								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	3			516	537		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2016-0019			AUG 5 2019	2019	Purpose This study was conducted to ensure that the selected antecedent concepts, including market demand and psychological factors, were fully focused and studied in detail and depth. The purpose of this paper is to develop and test a theoretical framework that specifies direct and indirect relationships among market demand, perceived benefits, perceived constraint, perceived value, consumer satisfaction and member commitment in martial arts programs. Design/methodology/approach Research participants (n=595) were martial arts school participants, who resided in the USA. A confirmatory factor analysis was conducted to evaluate the measurement model and the proposed model was tested by conducting structural equation modeling analyses. Findings Findings of this study indicated that perceived benefits and perceived constraints partially mediated the relationship between the market demand factors and perceived value, which in turn influenced member satisfaction and commitment. Economic Condition Consideration was found to be the most critical predictor of market demand. Originality/value Generating what-to-do and how-to-do implications that were specific to martial arts school and marketing practices were the priority of the investigators of this study. Administrators of martial arts programs may consider adopting the resultant theoretical framework as a general guide in their marketing efforts to recruit and retain program participants.		[Kim, Minkil] Troy Univ, Sch Hospitality Sport & Tourism Management, Troy, AL 36082 USA; [Zhang, James] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Kim, Minkil] Troy Univ, Sch Hospitality Sport & Tourism Management, Troy, AL 36082 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475500009	78	Article; Article		
J	Schafraad, Pytrik; Verhoeven, Joost W. M.								Headwinds in sports sponsoring								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	3			538	552		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2018-0108			AUG 5 2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to investigate the effects of a crisis situation in a sports team on the credibility of their sponsor and how the sponsor's use of various crises response strategies may repair the damage done to their credibility. Design/methodology/approach A scenario experiment was conducted with a 2 (pre-/post-crisis) x 4 (sponsor response strategy: denial/distancing/rebuild/no response) mixed factor design. Respondents (n=191) were recruited from a research panel. Findings The results confirmed the existence of a spill-over effect: the sponsor's credibility dropped as a result of the crisis. More interestingly, the effects of the crisis on sponsor credibility were moderated by the response strategy of the sponsor: the harm that the crisis did to the sponsor credibility was aggravated by a denial strategy, but somewhat weakened by a diminishing strategy. A rebuild response unexpectedly improved the credibility of the sponsor. Originality/value Starting from an issue arena perspective, this contribution shows how crises in sports teams also affect sponsors and how sponsors can contribute to the restoration of the damaged credibility with suitable responses to the crisis situation.		[Schafraad, Pytrik; Verhoeven, Joost W. M.] Univ Amsterdam, Dept Commun Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Schafraad, Pytrik] Univ Amsterdam, Dept Commun Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475500010	65	Article; Article		
J	LaGree, Danielle; Wilbur, Douglas; Cameron, Glen T.								A strategic approach to sports crisis management Assessing the NFL concussion crisis from marketing and public relations perspectives								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	3			407	429		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2018-0045			AUG 5 2019	2019	Purpose Using the National Football League (NFL) concussion crisis context, the purpose of this paper is to provide sports marketers with a strategic approach to sports crisis management through consideration of crisis media coverage and organizational reputation. Design/methodology/approach An online experiment assessed the impact of two crisis response strategies, fan involvement and exposure to crisis media coverage on emotional response, corporate message credibility, crisis perception and perceived corporate reputation. Findings The accident response strategy was associated with more favorable perceptions of the NFL and corporate message credibility. Sports fan involvement facilitated more favorable perceptions of the NFL's reputation, while exposure to media coverage of the NFL's crisis created negative perceptions of the NFL's reputation. Exposure to media coverage of the NFL concussion crisis increased feelings of anger, which in turn decreased perceptions of corporate message credibility. Originality/value This paper addresses sports crisis strategy from both marketing and public relations perspectives. It describes how strategic efforts protect a sports organization's reputation, thus increasing marketing effectiveness.		[LaGree, Danielle] Kansas State Univ, AQ Miller Sch Journalism & Mass Commun, Coll Arts & Sci, Manhattan, KS 66506 USA; [Wilbur, Douglas; Cameron, Glen T.] Univ Missouri, Missouri Sch Journalism, Columbia, MO USA; [LaGree, Danielle] Kansas State Univ, AQ Miller Sch Journalism & Mass Commun, Coll Arts & Sci, Manhattan, KS 66506 USA								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475500003	80	Article; Article		
J	Rayne, Daniel; McDonald, Heath; Leckie, Civilai								Assessing strategic social partnerships between professional sports teams and NPOs in Australian football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	3			446	461		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2018-0127			AUG 5 2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to assess corporate social responsibility (CSR) implemented via social partnerships between professional sports teams and not-for-profit organizations according to current theoretical perspectives. Limited resources and outcomes often mean there is a gap between theory and practice, the implications of which are not well understood. Design/methodology/approach Five partnerships in Australian football were analyzed via case study methodology which incorporated interviews, analysis of websites, social media and annual reports. Findings Despite being used as a CSR tool, findings showed most organizations enter these arrangements to achieve instrumental outcomes. Further, such partnerships mostly operate at a basic stage often described as philanthropic. One partnership was seen as more advanced consisting of a workplace plan to enhance diversity. Originality/value Addressing calls from past research into an examination of the variation of CSR in sports, this research is one of the first to compare multiple case studies to assess the strategic implementation of social partnerships in a professional sporting context. Accordingly, the study demonstrates how such partnerships can be evaluated against a prominent theoretical model, the Collaboration Continuum, enabling more robust social partnership strategies.		[Rayne, Daniel] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Management & Mkt, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [McDonald, Heath] RMIT Univ, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Leckie, Civilai] Swinburne Univ Technol, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Rayne, Daniel] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Management & Mkt, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475500005	47	Article; Article		
J	Alvarado-Vargas, Marcelo; Zou, Qi								The importance of good behavior in college football teams in the USA An interaction effect of team reputation on game attendance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	3			430	445		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2017-0038			AUG 5 2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to focus on two internal organizational factors in college football teams (team powerfulness and team reputation) and their combined relationship on game attendance. Authors aim to validate new data published by Wall Street Journal (WSJ) and NCAA websites; and to develop a new conceptual model to examine the interaction effect of team powerfulness and team reputation on game attendance. Design/methodology/approach This study relies on secondary data collected from the WSJ's "College Football's Grid of Shame" publication and the NCAA official website. Data for 123 US college football teams are collected representing 13 conferences for seasons 2010-2014. Multi-level regressions are utilized for statistical analyses. Findings Results reveal that not only team's powerfulness is required for more public attendance to games, but also team reputation strengthens this relationship. In other words, team reputation plays an important role in increasing games' attendance. Team reputation alone does not bring more attendees to games. Originality/value This paper studies the relevance of team reputation in the field of sports management. This paper argues that in order to achieve superior financial benefits in college football games, it is important to properly manage team powerfulness and its legal and ethical behavior. In this way, a positive reputation can leverage game attendance to a larger extent.		[Alvarado-Vargas, Marcelo] Univ Toledo, Dept Management, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Zou, Qi] Univ Toledo, Dept Informat Operat & Technol Management, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Alvarado-Vargas, Marcelo] Univ Toledo, Dept Management, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000491475500004	72	Article; Article		
J	Rexiti, Paerhati; Zhang, Tie-Cheng; Batuer, Chugulike; Cao, Li								Orthopedic treatment for open fracture of lower extremities and soft tissue defects in young children and rapid rehabilitation after operation								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	2			161	164		10.1080/00913847.2019.1642810			APR 2 2020	2020	Objective: This study aims to explore the clinical features of open fracture of lower extremities with soft tissue injury in young children, and its surgical and postoperative rehabilitation methods. Methods: A total of 32 children with open fracture of lower extremities and soft tissue injury treated in our department from January 2010 to December 2016 were included into this study. An individualized treatment plan was established according to the characteristics of each patient's condition, and rapid rehabilitation procedures were carried out after the operation to promote the healing of the wound, and shape and function recovery. Results: In the present study, four children developed superficial infection after the operation, and healed after proper management. Furthermore, two children were found to have osteomyelitis during follow-up after discharge, and healed after they returned to the hospital for debridement. All patients were followed up until fracture healing, and the follow-up duration ranged within 6-15 months, with an average duration of 8.5 months. All patients achieved bony union, and none of the patients had bone exposure. In the curative effect assessment, 24 children were classified as excellent, six children were classified as good, one child was classified as moderate, and one child was classified as poor. The excellent and good rate was 93.75%. Conclusions: Open fracture of the lower extremities commonly occur in the middle and lower segment of the tibia and fibula in children, and is usually combined with soft tissue injury. The correct treatment of fractures, and skin and soft tissue injuries, as well as the rapid rehabilitation of children, are the keys to achieving a good clinical effect.		[Rexiti, Paerhati; Batuer, Chugulike; Cao, Li] Xinjiang Med Univ, Teaching Hosp 1, Ctr Orthoped, 137 Liyushan South Rd, Urumqi 830054, Xinjiang, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Tie-Cheng] Xinjiang Med Univ, Teaching Hosp 1, Dept Hlth Rehabil Med, Urumqi, Xinjiang, Peoples R China; [Cao, Li] Xinjiang Med Univ, Teaching Hosp 1, Ctr Orthoped, 137 Liyushan South Rd, Urumqi 830054, Xinjiang, Peoples R China								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000480167000001	15	Article; Article		
J	Vargas, Valentine Zimermann; Motta, Caroline; Peres, Beatriz; Vancini, Rodrigo Luiz; Barbosa De Lira, Claudio Andre; Andrade, Marilia Santos								Knee isokinetic muscle strength and balance ratio in female soccer players of different age groups: a cross-sectional study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	1			105	109		10.1080/00913847.2019.1642808			JAN 2 2020	2020	Background: As a consequence of years of soccer training and sexual maturation, there is an increase in lower body muscle mass and strength especially in the knee extensors and flexors muscles. In this context, the lack of knee joint stability, resulting from strength imbalance between knee extensor and flexors muscles, has been associated with knee injuries. The aim of this study was to compare the knee flexor and extensor muscle peak torque, average power, contralateral deficit, conventional and functional balance ratios of female soccer players from different age groups. Methods: Sixty-six female soccer players were divided into four groups: under 13 (U13), under 15 (U15), under 17 (U17) years old and professional (PRO). Flexor and extensor knee muscle strength in concentric and eccentric actions of both limbs were assessed using isokinetic dynamometer. Results: For the dominant limb, the knee concentric extensor muscles peak torques, assessed at 60 and at 240 deg/sec, and the average power of U15 group were significantly higher than U13 group. Extensor muscle average power of the PRO group was higher than U17. Dominant knee flexor average power of U15 was significantly higher than the U13 group. Peak torque at 60 deg/sec and 240 deg/sec and average power of the PRO group were higher than the U17 group. No differences were found regarding the eccentric action for flexor and extensor muscles. Conventional and functional balance ratios were similar among all age group, except for U13, which presented higher values than the U15 group for the dominant limb. Conclusions: The greatest improvement in muscular performance occur when the athlete starts practicing soccer (after U13) and when they become professional (after U17) and the balance ratios, and muscle balance ratios remain stable in all age groups, although they are below the recommended level in the literature, which may increase the risk for lower limb injury.		[Vargas, Valentine Zimermann; Motta, Caroline; Peres, Beatriz; Andrade, Marilia Santos] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Fisiol, Rua Botucatu 862,5th Floor, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Vancini, Rodrigo Luiz; Barbosa De Lira, Claudio Andre] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Ctr Educ Fis & Desportos, Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Andrade, Marilia Santos] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Fisiol, Rua Botucatu 862,5th Floor, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								40							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000480167200001	26	Article; Article		
J	Snegireva, Nadja; Derman, Wayne; Patricios, Jon; Welman, Karen E.								Awareness and Perceived Value of Eye Tracking Technology for Concussion Assessment among Sports Medicine Clinicians: A Multinational Study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	2			165	172		10.1080/00913847.2019.1645577			APR 2 2020	2020	Objective: The awareness of concussion as a serious and frequently occurring sports injury and its management has evolved significantly. One viable objective diagnostic tool is eye tracking technology. The authors hypothesized that while clinicians may be aware that assessing eye movements in concussed athletes can be beneficial, it is possible that, due to the novelty of the eye tracking technology and limited exposure, only a few actually use it in their practice. The study aimed to assess the awareness of eye movement deficits associated with concussion amongst sports medicine clinicians and to determine the utilization and perceptions of the eye tracking technology for concussion diagnosis. Methods: An online 18-question survey was distributed internationally from January until December 2017 and completed by 171 sports medicine clinicians (sport physicians, therapists, general practitioners, neuropsychologists) from 32 countries. Results: Respondents indicated that subjectivity of assessments remained a major limitation of established diagnostic tools. Eye tracking technology, despite its potential to attenuate this limitation, was only used by 12% of respondents. To diagnose concussion, 77% did not use any eye movement assessment tools other than own clinical assessment. With the exception of abnormal pupil light reflex, which was checked by 68%, eye movement deficits were inspected by less than half of the respondents (46.3 +/- 12%). Conclusion: Even among sports medicine clinicians who regularly attend to patients with concussions, there is insufficient awareness that concussion can lead to abnormal eye tracking behavior. Lack of exposure to the sensitive eye tracking equipment may be a limiting factor for using eye movement metrics for concussion diagnostics. Facilitating the awareness of objective methods, like eye tracking technology, may help assure the appropriate continuum of identification and treatment for concussed athletes. Increasing educational opportunities and practical experience of clinicians regarding concussive symptoms and potential innovative technology is strongly advocated.		[Snegireva, Nadja; Welman, Karen E.] Stellenbosch Univ, Movement Lab, Dept Sport Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Derman, Wayne] Stellenbosch Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Med, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Derman, Wayne] Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr, Cape Town, South Africa; [Patricios, Jon] Univ Witwatersrand, Wits Inst Sport & Hlth, Fac Hlth Sci, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Snegireva, Nadja] Stellenbosch Univ, Movement Labs, Dept Sport Sci, Private Bag X1, ZA-7602 Matieland, South Africa								14							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000480014300001	51	Article; Article		
J	Cahill, Micheal J.; Cronin, John B.; Oliver, Jon L.; Clark, Kenneth P.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Cross, Matt R.								Sled Pushing and Pulling to Enhance Speed Capability								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	4			94	104		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000460			AUG 2019	2019	Resisted sprinting in the form of sled pushing and pulling are popular training methods to improve speed capability, although research has been biased toward investigating the effects of sled pulling. Practitioners need to understand whether the sled push and pull offer differential training effects, and hence their utility in influencing sprint kinematics and kinetics for targeted adaptation. Furthermore, there are a number of recent developments in loading and assessment that warrant discussion, given the impact of these techniques on understanding the load-velocity relationship and optimizing horizontal power output. Finally, some thoughts regarding load prescription are shared with the reader.		[Cahill, Micheal J.] Athlete Training & Hlth, Plano, TX 75024 USA; [Cahill, Micheal J.; Cronin, John B.; Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Cross, Matt R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Cronin, John B.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, Wales; [Clark, Kenneth P.] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA USA; [Cross, Matt R.] Univ Savoie Mt Blanc, Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite, Chambery, France; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] WINTEC, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Cahill, Micheal J.] Athlete Training & Hlth, Plano, TX 75024 USA; [Cahill, Micheal J.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509684300009	59	Article; Article		
J	Cormier, Tom								Exercise Programming for Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	4			89	93		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000462			AUG 2019	2019	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) is the most common liver disease in the united states and abroad due to a western diet and a decrease in physical activity. Weight loss and exercise improve the fatty liver and associated comorbidities; However, programming is highly individualized considering its high prevalence, and therefore, several programming options can be considered. A video abstract describing this article can be found in supplemental digital content 1 (SEE VIDEO, HTTP://LINKS.L.WW.COM/SCY A253).		[Cormier, Tom] AdventHlth Zephyrhills, AdventHlth Wellness Ctr, Zephyrhills, FL 33541 USA; [Cormier, Tom] AdventHlth Zephyrhills, AdventHlth Wellness Ctr, Zephyrhills, FL 33541 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509684300008	25	Article; Article		
J	Durguerian, Alexandre; Piscione, Julien; Mathieu, Bertrand; Lacome, Mathieu								Integrating Strength and Power Development in the Long-Term Athletic Development of Young Rugby Union Players: Methodological and Practical Applications								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	4			18	33		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000452			AUG 2019	2019	The purpose of this article is to describe the training strategy built by the french rugby union to optimize strength and power development in elite rugby union players. The training process is based on 4 stages composed of educational and technical efficiency, work capacity, maximal strength, and explosive power. The evolution of the player during these different steps should be adjusted according to individual progression and not only their chronological and biological age. Supervised training sessions with qualified and experienced strength and conditioning coaches are paramount to ensure individualized training and provide sound pedagogical approaches.		[Durguerian, Alexandre; Piscione, Julien; Mathieu, Bertrand; Lacome, Mathieu] French Rugby Federat, Performance Dept, Marcoussis, France; [Durguerian, Alexandre] French Cycling Federat, Montigny Le Bretonneux, France; [Lacome, Mathieu] Paris St Germain Football Club, Performance Dept, St Germain En Laye, France; [Durguerian, Alexandre] French Rugby Federat, Performance Dept, Marcoussis, France; [Durguerian, Alexandre] French Cycling Federat, Montigny Le Bretonneux, France								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509684300002	69	Article; Article		
J	Dolcetti, Joseph Cleary; Cronin, John B.; Macadam, Paul; Feser, Erin H.								Wearable Resistance Training for Speed and Agility								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	4			105	111		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000436			AUG 2019	2019	There are many training tools available to the coach for the improvement of speed and agility. This article discusses the use of wearable resistance (WR) and its place in the conditioning continuum. In terms of specific strength training and transference of adaptation to speed and agility, WR training is a bona fide contributor and can make a real difference to athleticism and competition performance. However, the utilization of WR training is embryonic; therefore, the focus of the article is on enhancing understanding and providing generic guidelines that can be translated across multiple movement patterns and sporting situations.		[Dolcetti, Joseph Cleary] LILA Movement Technol, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Cronin, John B.; Macadam, Paul; Feser, Erin H.] Auckland Univ Technol, AUT Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Cronin, John B.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Feser, Erin H.] Arizona State Univ, Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Macadam, Paul] Auckland Univ Technol, AUT Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509684300010	22	Article; Article		
J	Bradley, John; Kerr, Stewart; Bowmaker, David; Gomez, Jean-Francois								A Swim-Specific Shoulder Strength and Conditioning Program for Front Crawl Swimmers								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	4			1	17		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000457			AUG 2019	2019	Although swimming is a whole-body activity, shoulder problems can be quite common in competitive swimmers. The propulsion for swimming comes largely from the upper body but the lower body and trunk play an important supporting role. The swimming shoulder kinetic chain (sskc) describes the generation of swimming propulsion using the whole body. Effective swimmers will use the sskc in their stroke, so effects mgth and conditioning programs should also include the sskc. A series of swim-specific exercises using the sskc are presented that focus on the shoulder but can form the is of a whole-body swimming strength and conditioning program.		[Kerr, Stewart; Bowmaker, David] LifeFit Physiotherapy, Falkirk, Scotland; [Gomez, Jean-Francois] Mardyke Arena UCC, Cork, Ireland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509684300001	37	Article; Article		
J	Nevin, Jonpaul								Autoregulated Resistance Training: Does Velocity Based Training Represent the Future?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	4			34	39		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000471			AUG 2019	2019	Traditionally, resistance training intensity has been based upon a percentage of an individual's 1rm. However, there are numerous shortcomings with this approach, including its failure to consider an athlete's conditional, day-to-day training readiness. In order to address these limitations, the use of various progressive auto-regulated resistance training protocols has been suggested in the literature. Recent advances in the monitoring of movement velocity offer a unique approach by which to optimize the use of auto-regulated resistance training. By matching established acute resistance training variables to specific movement velocities the strength and conditioning practitioner can optimize resistance training intensity and objectively identify the onset of neuromuscular fatigue.		[Nevin, Jonpaul] Buckinghamshire New Univ, Sch Hlth & Social Sci, High Wycombe, Bucks, England; [Nevin, Jonpaul] Buckinghamshire New Univ, Sch Hlth & Social Sci, High Wycombe, Bucks, England								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000509684300003	33	Article; Article		
J	Cleather, Daniel J.; Czasche, Maike B.								Knee Forces During Landing in Men and Women								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			177	192		10.2478/hukin-2019-0065			AUG 2019	2019	Sex differences in biomechanics may provide one explanation for the greater incidence of knee injuries in women, but few studies have compared internal forces. In this study, a musculoskeletal model was used to compare male and female, bilateral and unilateral landings based on motion capture and force plate data. Participants were classified as landing medially or laterally loaded based upon the mediolateral load share at the knee (bilateral: p < 0.001, eta(2) =0.452; unilateral: p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.444). Knee kinematics and ground reaction forces were not different between the two groups (p > 0.05, eta(2) = 0.001 - 0.059), but there were differences in muscular recruitment. Landing strategy did not appear to be dependent on sex. However, for both medially and laterally loaded bilateral landings men had greater gluteal (p = 0.017, eta(2) = 0.085) and hamstrings forces (p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.183), whereas women had greater quadriceps forces (p = 0.004, eta(2) = 0.116). This study demonstrates an association between muscular recruitment and medially loaded landings. Landing strategy seems to be a function of skill not sex; however, within a particular landing strategy there may be sex differences in muscular activation that contribute to the difference in injury rates.		[Cleather, Daniel J.; Czasche, Maike B.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Cleather, Daniel J.] St Marys Univ, Fac Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000015	66	Article; Article		
J	Bartolomei, Sandro; Totti, Valentina; Nigro, Federico; Ciacci, Simone; Semprini, Gabriele; Di Michele, Rocco; Cortesi, Matteo; Hoffman, Jay R.								A Comparison Between The Recovery Responses Following an Eccentrically Loaded Bench Press Protocol Vs. Regular Loading in Highly Trained Men								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			59	67		10.2478/hukin-2019-0056			AUG 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to compare the physiological responses of a single bout of an eccentric accentuated bench press protocol (120% of 1RM in the eccentric phase/80% in the concentric phase; [120/80]) versus a regular high-intensity exercise protocol (80%/80%; 180/80]) in resistance-trained men. Eleven men (age = 25.6 +/- 3.9 y; body mass = 84.6 +/- 11.2 kg; body height = 176.4 +/- 3.9 cm) with 6.3 +/- 3.4 y of resistance training experience performed each protocol in counterbalanced, randomized order. Isometric, isokinetic and ballistic tests were performed at the bench press (IBPF, ISOK and BTP, respectively) at baseline (BL), 15-min (15P), 24-h (24P), and 48-h (48P) post-exercise for each testing session. In addition, muscle thickness of the pectoralis major (PecMT) was measured at the same timepoints via ultrasound. Significantly greater reductions in BTP (p < 0.001), peak force during both ISOK (p = 0.005) and IBPF (p = 0.006) at 15P were detected in 120/80 compared to 80/80. BTP was still significantly (p = 0.009) impaired at 48P following the 120/80 protocol, while no differences were noted following 80/80. PecMt was significantly elevated following both 120/80 and 80/80 (p < 0.05) at 15P, but significant differences between the trials were present at 15P and 24P (p = 0.005 and p = 0.008, respectively). Results indicated that heavy eccentric loading during the bench press exercise caused greater performance deficits than a bout of traditionally loaded high intensity resistance exercise. Power performance appears to be more influenced by the 120/80 protocol than isometric peak force. Eccentrically loaded exercise sessions should be separated by at least 48 hours to obtain a complete recovery of the initial muscle morphology and performance.		[Bartolomei, Sandro; Totti, Valentina; Nigro, Federico; Ciacci, Simone; Semprini, Gabriele; Di Michele, Rocco] Univ Bologna, Dept Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, I-40100 Bologna, Italy; [Cortesi, Matteo] Univ Bologna, Dept Life Qual Studies, Cso Augusto 237, I-47921 Rimini, Italy; [Hoffman, Jay R.] Univ Cent Florida, Coll Educ & Human Performance, Orlando, FL 32766 USA; [Bartolomei, Sandro] Univ Bologna, Dept Biomed & Neuromotor Sci, I-40100 Bologna, Italy								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000005	22	Article; Article		
J	Gee, Thomas, I; Woolrich, Thomas J.; Smith, Mark F.								Effectiveness of Whey Protein Hydrolysate and Milk-Based Formulated Drinks on Recovery of Strength and Power Following Acute Resistance Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			193	202		10.2478/hukin-2019-0066			AUG 2019	2019	Intensive resistance exercise can result in exercise-induced-muscle-damage, which commonly leads to reductions in acute muscle function. Post-exercise ingestion of carbohydrate-protein mixtures intends to attenuate these effects. This study aimed to compare the effectiveness of whey protein hydrolysate and milk-based formulated drinks on recovery of muscle function following resistance exercise. Thirty resistance-trained males were randomly assigned to either whey hydrolysate and dextrose drink (WH), milk-based drink (MB) or flavored-dextrose (CHO), and performed baseline assessments of perceived-muscle-soreness, the countermovement jump, the seated-medicine-ball throw and isokinetic assessment of the knee extensors and flexors maximal strength. Subsequently, participants performed resistance exercise consisting of various multi-joint barbell exercises. Following resistance exercise participants then consumed either WH (533 Kcal, 32.6 g Protein, 98.3 g Carbohydrate, 1.1 g Fat), MB (532 Kcal, 32.8 g Protein, 98.4 g Carbohydrate, 0.6 g Fat) or CHO (531 Kcal, 0 g Protein, 132.7 g Carbohydrate, 0 g Fat). All assessments were repeated 24 and 48 h post-resistance exercise. Muscle soreness was markedly increased at 24 h and 48 h in all groups (p < 0.001). However, for dynamic power measures (countermovement jump, seated-medicine-ball throw), CHO experienced a decrease for the countermovement jump only at 48 h, whereas WH and MB experienced significant decreases across the countermovement jump and the seated-medicine-ball throw (p < 0.05). All groups experienced significant decreases in isokinetic-extension torque at both 24 h and 48 h; however, flexion torque was decreased for CHO only at these time points (p < 0.05). Consumption of WH or MB did not enhance recovery of dynamic power-producing ability or soreness compared to CHO. Based on within-group effects WH and MB ingestion had seemingly marginal to small positive effects on recovery of isokinetic strength, however, there were no between-group differences for these variables.		[Gee, Thomas, I; Woolrich, Thomas J.; Smith, Mark F.] Univ Lincoln, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Brayford Campus, Lincoln LN6 7TS, England; [Gee, Thomas, I] Univ Lincoln, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Brayford Campus, Lincoln LN6 7TS, England								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000016	33	Article; Article		
J	Mastalerz, Andrzej; Szyszka, Paulina; Grantham, Weronika; Sadowski, Jerzy								Biomechanical Analysis of Successful and Unsuccessful Snatch Lifts in Elite Female Weightlifters								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			69	79		10.2478/hukin-2019-0057			AUG 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to identify biomechanical factors affecting successful and unsuccessful snatch attempts in elite female weightlifters during the 2013 World Weightlifting Championships. Fourteen female competitors took part in this study. Their successful and unsuccessful snatch lifts with the same load were recorded with 2 camcorders (50 Hz), and selected points were digitized manually on to the body and the barbell using the Ariel Performance Analysis System. The kinetic and kinematic barbell movement as well as the athlete's body movement variables during the liftoff phase were examined. The results of this study show statistical differences (p <= 0.05) between successful and unsuccessful attempts in relation to the angle values in the knee and hip joints in preparation for the aerial phase position. Similarly, the center of gravity velocity was significantly higher in successful attempts during the catch phase. Thus, coaches should pay particular attention to the accuracy of the execution in preparation for the aerial phase position and to the velocity of the center of gravity of the competitors during the catch phase.		[Mastalerz, Andrzej] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Phys Educ, Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw 45, Poland; [Szyszka, Paulina; Grantham, Weronika; Sadowski, Jerzy] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Biala Podlaska Branch, Akad 2, PL-21500 Biala Podlaska, Poland; [Mastalerz, Andrzej] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Dept Phys Educ, Marymoncka 34, PL-00968 Warsaw 45, Poland								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000006	32	Article; Article		
J	Vagner, Michal; Malecek, Jan; Tomsovsky, Lubos; Kubovy, Petr; Levitova, Andrea; Stastny, Petr								Isokinetic Strength of Rotators, Flexors and Hip Extensors is Strongly Related to Front Kick Dynamics in Military Professionals								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			145	155		10.2478/hukin-2019-0063			AUG 2019	2019	Achieving the maximum possible impact force of the front kick can be related to the isokinetic lower limb muscle strength. Therefore, we aimed to determine the regression model between kicking performance and the isokinetic peak net moment of hip rotators, flexors, and hip extensors and flexors at various speeds of contraction. Twenty-five male soldiers (27.7 +/- 7.2 yrs, 83.8 +/- 6.1 kg, 180.5 +/- 6.5 cm) performed six barefoot front kicks, where impact forces (N) and kick velocity (m.s(-1)) were measured. The 3D kinematics and isokinetic dynamometry were used to estimate the kick velocity, isokinetic moment of kicking lower limb hip flexors and extensors (60, 120, 240, 300 degrees.s(-1)), and stance lower limb hip internal and external rotators (30, 90 degrees.s(-1)). Multiple regression showed that a separate component of the peak moment concentric hip flexion and extension of the kicking lower limb at 90 degrees.s(-1) can explain 54% of the peak kicking impact force variance (R-2 = 0.54; p < 0.001). When adding the other 3 components of eccentric and concentric hip internal and external rotations at 30 degrees.s(-1), the internal and external hip rotation ratios at 30 degrees.s(-1) on the stance limb and the concentric ratio of kicking limb flexion and extension at 300 degrees.s(-1) that explained the variance of impact force were 75% (p = 0.003). The explosive strength of kicking limb hip flexors and extensors is the main condition constraint for kicking performance. The maximum strength of stance limb internal and external rotators and speed strength of kicking limb hip flexors and extensors are important constraints of kicking performance that should be considered to improve the front kick efficiency.		[Vagner, Michal; Malecek, Jan] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Mil, Jose Martiho 31, Prague 16252, Czech Republic; [Tomsovsky, Lubos; Kubovy, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Anat & Biomech, Jose Martiho 31, Prague 16252, Czech Republic; [Levitova, Andrea] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Adapted Phys Educ & Sport Med, Jose Martiho 31, Prague 16252, Czech Republic; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Jose Martiho 31, Prague 16252, Czech Republic; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Jose Martiho 31, Prague 16252, Czech Republic								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000012	26	Article; Article		
J	Kawczynski, Adam								Force and Electromyographic Responses of the Biceps Brachii after Eccentric Exercise in Athletes and non-Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			203	210		10.2478/hukin-2019-0068			AUG 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to compare skeletal muscle response to elbow flexors eccentric exercise in athletes and non-athletes. A set of eccentric (ECC) exercises was performed in a group of 12 athletes and 12 non-athlete controls. Maximal isometric force, electromyographic (EMG) activity of the biceps brachii and the resting elbow angle were assessed before, immediately, 48 hours, 5 and 10 days after high-intensity ECC exercises. During the set of the ECC exercises each participant performed 25 eccentric contractions of elbow flexors. Each contraction consisted of lowering a dumbbell from the flexed (elbow joint angle: 50(sic)) to the extended elbow (elbow joint angle: 180(sic)) position. The weight of the dumbbell was set at 80% of one-repetition maximum (1RM). The ECC contractions caused a decrease in maximal isometric force in both groups. The variable dropped by 8% in non-athletes and by 24% in athletes. Furthermore, the EMG RMS increased significantly only for non-athletes 10 days after the ECC exercise compared to baseline values. The present study showed different effects of ECC exercise on force and EMG in athletes and non-athletes, indicating a more pronounced force response in athletes and electromyographic response in non-athletes.		[Kawczynski, Adam] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Paralymp Games, Ul Paderewskiego 35, PL-51629 Wroclaw, Poland; [Kawczynski, Adam] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Paralymp Games, Ul Paderewskiego 35, PL-51629 Wroclaw, Poland								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000017	25	Article; Article		
J	Tsoukos, Athanasios; Brown, Lee E.; Veligekas, Panagiotis; Terzis, Gerasimos; Bogdanis, Gregory C.								Postactivation Potentiation of Bench Press Throw Performance Using Velocity-Based Conditioning Protocols with Low and Moderate Loads								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			81	98		10.2478/hukin-2019-0058			AUG 2019	2019	This study examined the acute effects of the bench press exercise with low and moderate loads as well as with two predetermined movement velocity loss percentages on bench press throw performance and surface electromyographic (sEMG) activity. Ten trained men completed 5 main trials in randomized and counterbalanced order one week apart. Mean propulsive velocity (MPV), peak velocity (PV) and sEMG activity of prime movers were evaluated before and periodically for 12 minutes of recovery under five conditions: using loads of 40 or 60% of 1 RM, until mean velocity dropped to 90 or 70%, as well as a control condition (CTRL). MPV and PV were increased 4-12 min into recovery by 4.5-6.8% only after the 60%1RM condition during which velocity dropped to 90% and total exercise volume was the lowest of all conditions (p < 0.01, Hedges' g = 0.8-1.7). When peak individual responses were calculated irrespective of time, MPV was increased by 9.2 +/- 4.4 (p < 0.001, Hedges' g = 1.0) and 6.1 +/- 3.6% (p < 0.001, Hedges' g = 0.7) under the two conditions with the lowest total exercise volume irrespective of the load, i.e. under the conditions of 40 and 60% 1RM where velocity was allowed to drop to 90%. sEMG activity of the triceps was significantly greater when peak individual responses were taken into account only under the 60%1RM condition when velocity dropped to 90% (p < 0.05, Hedges' g = 0.4). This study showed that potentiation may be maximized by taking into account individual fatigue profiles using velocity-based training.		[Tsoukos, Athanasios; Veligekas, Panagiotis; Terzis, Gerasimos; Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, 41 Ethnikis Antistasis St, Athens, Greece; [Brown, Lee E.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Human Performance Lab, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, 41 Ethnikis Antistasis St, Athens, Greece								45							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000007	55	Article; Article		
J	Suchomel, Timothy J.; McKeever, Shana M.; Sijuwade, Olusegun; Carpenter, Logan; McMahon, John J.; Loturco, Irineu; Comfort, Paul								The Effect of Load Placement on the Power Production Characteristics of Three Lower Extremity Jumping Exercises								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			109	122		10.2478/hukin-2019-0060			AUG 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to compare the power production characteristics of the jump squat (JS), hexagonal barbell jump (HEXJ), and jump shrug (JShrug) across a spectrum of relative loads. Fifteen resistance-trained men completed three testing sessions where they performed repetitions of either the JS, HEXJ, or JShrug at body mass (BM) or with 20, 40, 60, 80, or 100% of their BM. Relative peak power (PPRel), relative force at PP (FPP), and velocity at PP (VPP) were compared between exercises and loads. In addition, power-time curves at each load were compared between exercises. Load-averaged HEXJ and JShrug PPRel were statistically greater than the JS (both p < 0.01), while no difference existed between the HEXJ and the JShrug (p = 1.000). Load-averaged JShrug FPP was statistically greater than both the JS and the HEXJ (both p < 0.001), while no statistical difference existed between the JS and the HEXJ (p = 0.111). Load-averaged JS and HEXJ VPP were statistically greater than the JShrug (both p < 0.01). In addition, HEXJ VPP was statistically greater than the JS (p = 0.009). PPRel was maximized at 40, 40, and 20% BM for the JS, HEXJ, and JShrug, respectively. The JShrug possessed statistically different power-time characteristics compared to both the JS and the HEXJ during the counter-movement and propulsion phases. The HEXJ and the JShrug appear to be superior exercises for PPRel compared to the JS. The HEXJ may be considered a more velocity-dominant exercise, while the JShrug may be a more force-dominant one.		[Suchomel, Timothy J.; McKeever, Shana M.; Sijuwade, Olusegun; Carpenter, Logan] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.; McMahon, John J.; Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Manchester, England; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, 100 N East Ave, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000009	35	Article; Article		
J	Lasevicius, Thiago; Schoenfeld, Brad Jon; Grgic, Jozo; Laurentino, Gilberto; Tavares, Lucas Duarte; Tricoli, Valmor								Similar Muscular Adaptations in Resistance Training Performed Two Versus Three Days Per Week								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			135	143		10.2478/hukin-2019-0062			AUG 2019	2019	The purpose of the present study was to compare changes in muscle strength and hypertrophy between volume-equated resistance training (RT) performed 2 versus 3 times per week in trained men. Thirty-six resistance-trained men were randomly assigned to one of the two experimental groups: a split-body training routine (SPLIT) with muscle groups trained twice per week (n = 18) over four weekly sessions, or a total-body routine (TOTAL), with muscle groups being trained three times per week (n = 18) over three weekly sessions. The training intervention lasted 10 weeks. Testing was carried out pre- and post-study to assess maximal muscular strength in the back squat and bench press, and hypertrophic adaptations were assessed by measuring muscle thickness of the elbow flexors, elbow extensors, and quadriceps femoris. Twenty-eight subjects completed the study. Significant pre-to-post intervention increases in upper and lower-body muscular strength occurred in both groups with no significant between-group differences. Furthermore, significant preto-post intervention increases in muscle size of the elbow extensors and quadriceps femoris occurred in both groups with no significant between-group differences. No significant pre-to-post changes were observed for the muscle size of elbow flexors both in the SPLIT or TOTAL group. In conclusion, a training frequency of 2 versus 3 days per week produces similar increases in muscular adaptations in trained men over a 10-week training period. Nonetheless, effect size differences favored SPLIT for all hypertrophy measures, indicating a potential benefit for training two versus three days a week when the goal is to maximize gains in muscle mass.		[Lasevicius, Thiago; Laurentino, Gilberto; Tavares, Lucas Duarte; Tricoli, Valmor] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Schoenfeld, Brad Jon] CUNY, Lehman Coll, Hlth Sci Dept, 250 Bedford Pk Blvd West, Bronx, NY 10468 USA; [Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHES, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Schoenfeld, Brad Jon] CUNY, Lehman Coll, Hlth Sci Dept, 250 Bedford Pk Blvd West, Bronx, NY 10468 USA								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000011	29	Article; Article		
J	Maciejewska-Skrendo, Agnieszka; Cieszczyk, Pawel; Chycki, Jakub; Sawczuk, Marek; Smolka, Wojciech								Genetic Markers Associated with Power Athlete Status								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			17	36		10.2478/hukin-2019-0053			AUG 2019	2019	Athletic performance is a multifactorial phenotype influenced by environmental factors as well as multiple genetic variants. Different genetic elements have a great influence over components of athletic performance such as endurance, strength, power, flexibility, neuromuscular coordination, psychological traits and other features important in sport. The current literature review revealed that to date more than 69 genetic markers have been associated with power athlete status. For the purpose of the present review we have assigned all genetic markers described with reference to power athletes status to seven main groups: 1) markers associated with skeletal muscle structure and function, 2) markers involved in the inflammatory and repair reactions in skeletal muscle during and after exercise, 3) markers involved in blood pressure control, 4) markers involved in modulation of oxygen uptake, 5) markers that are regulators of energy metabolism and cellular homeostasis, 6) markers encoding factors that control gene expression by rearrangement of chromatin fibers and mRNA stability, and 7) markers modulating cellular signaling pathways. All data presented in the current review provide evidence to support the notion that human physical performance may be influenced by genetic profiles, especially in power sports. The current studies still represent only the first steps towards a better understanding of the genetic factors that influence power-related traits, so further analyses are necessary before implementation of research findings into practice.		[Maciejewska-Skrendo, Agnieszka; Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Mol Biol, Kazimierza Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Chycki, Jakub] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Fac Phys Educ, Katowice, Poland; [Sawczuk, Marek] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Tourism & Recreat, Unit Phys Med, Gdansk, Poland; [Smolka, Wojciech] Med Univ Silesia, Sch Med Katowice, Clin Dept Laryngol, Katowice, Poland; [Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Mol Biol, Kazimierza Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000002	79	Article; Article		
J	Grgic, Jozo; Sabol, Filip; Venier, Sandro; Tallis, Jason; Schoenfeld, Brad J.; Del Coso, Juan; Mikulic, Pavle								Caffeine Supplementation for Powerlifting Competitions: an Evidence-Based Approach								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				68	1			37	48		10.2478/hukin-2019-0054			AUG 2019	2019	In this paper, we review the effects of caffeine on muscle strength and provide suggestions for caffeine supplementation in powerlifting competitions. The currently available studies indicate that caffeine ingestion may enhance strength in two powerlifting competition events, the squat and the bench press. For the deadlift, the same might be expected even though studies directly using this event are lacking. Optimal doses of caffeine are likely in the range from 2 to 6 mg.kg(-1), and are highly individual. When using caffeine-containing capsules, 60 minutes pre-exercise seems to be a good timing of caffeine consumption. For other sources such as caffeinated chewing gum, a shorter period (5 to 10 min) from consumption to the start of the exercise seems to be effective. For shorter duration powerlifting competitions (e.g., 2 hours), one pre-competition dose of caffeine could be sufficient for acute performance-enhancing effects that might be maintained across all three events. For longer duration competitions (with longer rest periods between one repetition maximum attempts), there might be a benefit to repeated dosing with caffeine; for example, ingesting smaller doses of caffeine before each attempt or event. During training, powerlifters may consider ingesting caffeine only before the training sessions with the highest intensity. This approach might eliminate the attenuation of caffeine's effects associated with chronic caffeine ingestion and would help in maximizing performance benefits from acute caffeine ingestion at the competition. Nonetheless, withdrawal from caffeine (e.g., no caffeine intake seven days before competition) does not seem necessary and may have some indirect negative effects.		[Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHES, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Sabol, Filip] Fitness Acad, Zagreb, Croatia; [Sabol, Filip; Venier, Sandro; Mikulic, Pavle] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Zagreb, Croatia; [Tallis, Jason] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY Lehman Coll, Hlth Sci Dept, Bronx, NY USA; [Del Coso, Juan] Univ Camilo Jose Cela, Exercise Physiol Lab, Villanueva De La Canada, Spain; [Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport IHES, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000487060000003	54	Article; Article		
J	Towlson, Christopher; Cope, Ed; Perry, John L.; Court, David; Levett, Nick								Practitioners' multi-disciplinary perspectives of soccer talent according to phase of development and playing position								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			528	540		10.1177/1747954119845061			AUG 2019	2019	The study aimed to establish the perceived importance that academy soccer practitioners placed on technical/tactical, physical, psycho-social player attributes during player selection and explore whether perceptions change according to Elite Player Performance Plan phase. Seventy academy practitioners working within Elite Player Performance Plan programs (Category 1: n = 29; Category 2: n = 13 and Category 3: n = 28) completed an online survey. Psychological factors were rated significantly (p <= 0.01) higher than sociological, technical/tactical, and physical factors, with recruitment staff specifically valuing psychological factors significantly (p <= 0.01) more than medical staff. Youth Development phase practitioners valued sociological factors significantly (p < 0.05) more than in the Foundation phase, which was also true for physical factors. Practitioners indicated significant positional differences for most physical and technical/tactical attributes. There was no playing position effect for relative age effect or maturity. Between playing position variance of outfield players for most technical and physical attributes increased according to advancing Elite Player Performance Plan phase. Attitudes to holistic talent identification criteria likely change according to practitioner role. Therefore, this study provides evidence to suggest that Elite Player Performance Plan practitioners place less perceived importance on enhanced maturity status and relative age of players but does indicate an enhancing and significant positional preference for physical and technical/tactical attributes. Suggesting that practitioners are less likely to (de)select players based on transient, maturity-related attributes and instead place greater emphasis on specialist physical/technical position-specific attributes as players navigate the Elite Player Performance Plan pathway towards professional status.		[Towlson, Christopher; Cope, Ed] Univ Hull, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Sport Hlth & Exercise, Kingston Upon Hull HU6 7RX, N Humberside, England; [Cope, Ed; Court, David] Football Assoc, St Georges Pk, Burton Upon Trent, England; [Perry, John L.] Univ Limerick, Mary Immaculate Coll, Limerick, Ireland; [Levett, Nick] UK Coaching, Horsham, W Sussex, England; [Towlson, Christopher] Univ Hull, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Sport Hlth & Exercise, Kingston Upon Hull HU6 7RX, N Humberside, England								46							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900011	41	Article; Article		
J	Kittel, Aden; Larkin, Paul; Elsworthy, Nathan; Spittle, Michael								Identification of key performance characteristics of elite Australian football umpires								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			490	497		10.1177/1747954119845071			AUG 2019	2019	This research aimed to present a hierarchy of key attributes for Australian football umpires. Elite Australian football umpires (n = 19) and their coaches (n = 5) participated in this study. A list of attributes necessary for sports officiating was obtained from past research and adapted specifically for Australian football umpires. Umpires were required to rate each attribute on a scale of 0-9 (least to most importance), and provide a justification of its importance to performance. A modified questionnaire was developed with attributes removed or added, according to the first survey round. This research identified two cognitive attributes: knowing the laws/interpretations and decision-making as the two highest rated attributes, respectively. Psychological attributes composure and concentration were rated highly by the umpires, ranked as number three and five, respectively. The game skill attribute of teamwork was rated as the fourth highest. Fitness was the only physical attribute to be rated in the most important category. Results highlight the importance of cognitive and psychological attributes to elite performance; however, participant feedback suggests that the integration of all attributes is critical. This knowledge establishes an understanding of the key attributes for expert performance, and this information could be used by coaches for the assessment and development of Australian football umpires.		[Kittel, Aden; Larkin, Paul; Spittle, Michael] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Footscray, Vic 3011, Australia; [Elsworthy, Nathan] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Norman Gardens, Qld, Australia; [Kittel, Aden] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Footscray, Vic 3011, Australia								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900007	32	Article; Article		
J	Joncheray, Helene; Burlot, Fabrice; Julla-Marcy, Mathilde								Is the game lost in advance? Being a high-performance coach and preserving family life								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			453	462		10.1177/1747954119860223			AUG 2019	2019	This article examines how high-performance sport coaches combine their professional and family lives. To address this issue, semi-structured interviews were conducted with 41 French coaches (8 females, 33 males) involved in the preparation of the French teams for the Olympic Games in Rio (2016), Pyeongchang (2018) and/or Tokyo (2020). The results show that all the coaches interviewed are engaged in a passionate relationship with their job. For some coaches, this commitment has an impact on their family life. Three groups of coaches stand out: (i) a majority of coaches who are unable to preserve their family life, (ii) coaches who maintain a distance from their profession and preserve their family life, (iii) coaches who have or have not preserved their family life and who position themselves as actors wishing to do everything possible to preserve the family life of the coaches they supervise. Thus, these results highlight, for some coaches, difficulties in combining professional and family life. For others, family life is a protection for engagement in a passionate profession. These data can provide useful information for sport organizations in charge of coaches.		[Joncheray, Helene; Burlot, Fabrice] INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, 11 Ave Tremblay, F-75012 Paris, France; [Joncheray, Helene] Univ Paris 05, Inst Sci Sport Sante Paris EA 3625, Paris, France; [Julla-Marcy, Mathilde] Univ Paris Nanterre, Inst Sci Sociales Polit UMR 7220, Paris, France; [Joncheray, Helene] INSEP, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance EA 7370, 11 Ave Tremblay, F-75012 Paris, France								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900003	79	Article; Article		
J	Lucero, Rhys A. J.; Fry, Andrew C.; LeRoux, Christopher D.; Hermes, Matthew, I								Relationships between barbell squat strength and weightlifting performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			562	568		10.1177/1747954119837688			AUG 2019	2019	Weightlifters compete in the snatch, clean and jerk, and total (snatch + clean and jerk). Commonly used assistance exercises for training weightlifters are front barbell squats and back barbell squats. The purpose of this study was to determine relationships between the front barbell squats and back barbell squats one repetition maximum (1 RM) and the snatch, clean and jerk, and total 1 RM. Senior male competitive weightlifters (n = 72) served as subjects in the survey. Significant correlations were found between front barbell squats and snatch, clean and jerk, or total 1 RM (r(2 )= 0.85, 0.88, and 0.87 respectively) and between back barbell squats and snatch, clean and jerk, or total 1 RM (r(2 )= 0.83, 0.84, and 0.83 respectively). Regression analyses indicate that 1 RM in the snatch, clean and jerk, and total are linearly related to the 1 RM in the front barbell squats and back barbell squats. Superior lifters appeared to be more efficient in using their back barbell squats strength during weightlifting compared to lower level lifters.		[Lucero, Rhys A. J.; LeRoux, Christopher D.] Univ Memphis, Human Performance Labs, Memphis, TN 38152 USA; [Fry, Andrew C.; Hermes, Matthew, I] Univ Kansas, Jayhawk Athlet Performance Lab, 101A Robinson Ctr,1301 Sunnyside Ave, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA; [Fry, Andrew C.] Univ Kansas, Jayhawk Athlet Performance Lab, 101A Robinson Ctr,1301 Sunnyside Ave, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900014	20	Article; Article		
J	Gomez-Lopez, Manuel; Andres Merino-Barrero, Juan; Manzano-Sanchez, David; Valero-Valenzuela, Alfonso								A cluster analysis of high-performance handball players' perceived motivational climate: Implications on motivation, implicit beliefs of ability and intention to be physically active								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			541	551		10.1177/1747954119861855			AUG 2019	2019	The aims of this study were to uncover the different motivational climate profiles to compare differences on their implicit beliefs of sports ability, motivational orientation, and intention to be physically active, and finally to analyse the relationship of the gender with motivational climate profiles, in a large sample of high-performance handball players in Spain. A total of 444 (233 males, 211 females) high-performance handball players agreed to participate. They completed a questionnaire that included the Spanish validated versions of Perceived Motivational Climate in Sport Questionnaire, Conceptions of the Nature of Athletic Ability Questionnaire-2, Sport Motivation Scale and Intention to be Physically Active Questionnaire. A hierarchical cluster analysis uncovered two independent motivational climate profiles that were confirmed by a K-Means cluster analysis: "mastery climate" and "performance climate". The results revealed that the mastery climate profile comprised players with less amotivation and higher scores in both incremental ability belief and greater intention to be physically active, and more women than men. By contrast, the performance climate profile comprised players with higher scores in extrinsic motivation and amotivation, both entity ability belief, lower intention to be physically active and primarily men. The importance of the coach in creating a mastery climate that fosters athletes' engagement was confirmed.		[Gomez-Lopez, Manuel; Manzano-Sanchez, David; Valero-Valenzuela, Alfonso] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia 30720, Spain; [Andres Merino-Barrero, Juan] Univ Murcia, E065 04 Hlth Phys Act & Educ Res Grp SAFE, Murcia, Spain; [Gomez-Lopez, Manuel] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Fac Sport Sci, Murcia 30720, Spain								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900012	80	Article; Article		
J	Hassmen, Peter; Kentta, Goran; Hjalm, Soren; Lundkvist, Erik; Gustafsson, Henrik								Burnout symptoms and recovery processes in eight elite soccer coaches over 10 years								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			431	443		10.1177/1747954119851246			AUG 2019	2019	Elite sport can be stressful, which increases the risk for burnout symptoms to develop. Especially when not balanced with sufficient recovery. To study the burnout-recovery process, eight elite soccer coaches were followed for 10 years. All eight were active elite coaches at the inception of this study and reported elevated emotional exhaustion scores on Maslach's Burnout Inventory Educators Survey (MBI-ES). The coaches completed MBI-ES three additional times (year 3, 7, and 10), and they were also interviewed on the same occasions. At the 3-year follow-up, seven of the eight coaches reduced their exhaustion scores. The coach presenting with unchanged scores both at the 3 - and 7-year follow-up was the only one still coaching at the elite level. All coaches revealed during the interviews that they struggled to manage their work-life balance well; some worked too many hours, some experienced difficulty in managing conflicting role-demands, and some wrestled with external pressures. Their approach to recovery was, however, similar. Apart from moving away from coaching at the elite level, they unanimously mentioned that they changed their approach to coaching to make recovery possible. They achieved the latter by, for example, increasing control and delegating responsibility. According to our longitudinal results, burnout frequently regarded as an end-state can decrease over time. Provided that decisive action is taken to change situational factors and personal demands. This frequently meant withdrawing from coaching, which in turn explains why coach retention remains a serious challenge for most organizations with teams/athletes competing at the elite level.		[Hassmen, Peter] Southern Cross Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Coffs Harbour, NSW 2450, Australia; [Kentta, Goran; Lundkvist, Erik] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Stockholm, Sweden; [Kentta, Goran] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Hjalm, Soren] Orebro Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Orebro, Sweden; [Gustafsson, Henrik] Karlstad Univ, Dept Educ Studies, Karlstad, Sweden; [Gustafsson, Henrik] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo, Norway; [Hassmen, Peter] Southern Cross Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Coffs Harbour, NSW 2450, Australia								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900001	62	Article; Article		
J	Dyer, Cameron S.; Callister, Robin; Sanctuary, Colin E.; Snodgrass, Suzanne J.								Functional Movement Screening and injury risk in elite adolescent rugby league players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	4			498	506		10.1177/1747954119853650			AUG 2019	2019	Research is limited as to whether Functional Movement Screen scores relate to non-contact injury risk in rugby league players. This cohort study investigates whether the Functional Movement Screen score predicts non-contact injuries in elite adolescent rugby league players. Australian adolescent rugby league players (n = 52; mean age 16.0 +/- 1.0 years) from one club participated in this study. Functional Movement Screen scores, height, and mass were collected at the beginning of the preseason. Training, match exposure, and injury incidence data (non-contact match and training injuries with three levels of severity) were recorded for each individual athlete throughout the season. Linear and logistic regression analyses were conducted to investigate the association between Functional Movement Screen score (continuous score, <= 14 or > 14, and three subscores) and injury risk, whilst controlling for exposure time. The mean Functional Movement Screen score for the sample was 13.4 (95% CI: 11.0-14.0). A total of 72 non-contact injuries were recorded (incidence rate: 18.7 per 1000 exposure hours; 95% CI: 11.6-24.8). There were no statistically significant associations between non-contact injury and Functional Movement Screen score for any of the analyses conducted. Our results suggest that the Functional Movement Screen does not reflect non-contact injury risk in elite adolescent rugby league players. Further research should investigate whether a more sport-specific movement screen in the preseason can more effectively predict injury risk in this population.		[Dyer, Cameron S.; Snodgrass, Suzanne J.] Univ Newcastle, Sch Hlth Sci, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Callister, Robin] Univ Newcastle, Sch Biomed Sci & Pharm, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Callister, Robin; Snodgrass, Suzanne J.] Univ Newcastle, Prior Res Ctr Phys Act & Nutr, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Sanctuary, Colin E.] New South Wales Rugby League, Sydney Olymp Pk, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Snodgrass, Suzanne J.] Univ Newcastle, Sch Hlth Sci, Discipline Physiotherapy, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000479122900008	51	Article; Article		
J	Trowell, Danielle; Phillips, Elissa; Saunders, Philo; Bonacci, Jason								The relationship between performance and biomechanics in middle-distance runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	8			974	984		10.1080/14763141.2019.1630478			NOV 17 2021	2021	The present study aimed to identify movement patterns most related to running performance among highly trained middle-distance runners. Eleven male runners performed overground running trials on an indoor running track, and three-dimensional analyses techniques were used to measure running kinematics and kinetics. Performance was measured as season and personal best time over 1500 m. The average velocity during the running trials was 7.2 +/- 0.3 m/s. The average season and personal best 1500 m race times were 3:49.7 +/- 0:05.8 and 3:46.0 +/- 0:08.3 minutes, respectively. Regression analysis revealed that a smaller range of sagittal-plane hip motion during swing, less thorax flexion at toe-off and a smaller ankle plantarflexion angle at contact accounted for 95.7% (p < 0.001) of the variation in season best running performance. Less sagittal-plane hip motion during swing and a smaller ankle plantarflexion angle at contact also explained 79% of the variance in personal best time. Slower middle-distance runners make initial ground contact with a more plantarflexed ankle and greater forward lean of the trunk. We recommend that coaches and runners pay attention to ankle, shank and thorax angles during technical development and training to identify opportunities to optimise middle-distance running mechanics and performance.		[Trowell, Danielle; Bonacci, Jason] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sports Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Waurn Ponds, Australia; [Trowell, Danielle; Phillips, Elissa] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Movement Sci, Bruce, Australia; [Saunders, Philo] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Physiol, Bruce, Australia; [Trowell, Danielle] Deakin Univ, Ctr Sports Res, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Waurn Ponds, Australia; [Trowell, Danielle] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Movement Sci, Bruce, Australia								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000481182300001	32	Article; Article		
J	Wei, Rachel X.; Au, Ivan P. H.; Lau, Fannie O. Y.; Zhang, Janet H.; Chan, Zoe Y. S.; MacPhail, Aislinn J. C.; Mangubat, Anamaria L.; Pun, Gabriel; Cheung, Roy T. H.								Running biomechanics before and after Pose® method gait retraining in distance runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	8			958	973		10.1080/14763141.2019.1624812			NOV 17 2021	2021	Pose (R) Method gait retraining has been claimed to modify running form and prevent injury. This study examined the running biomechanics before and after Pose (R) Method gait retraining. Fourteen runners underwent a 4-week Pose (R) Method gait retraining program delivered by a certified coach. Paired t-tests were employed to compare vertical average (VALR) and instantaneous loading rates (VILR), lower limb kinematics, footstrike angle and trunk flexion in the sagittal plane before and after the training. Kinetically, there were no significant differences in the VALR (p= 0.693) and VILR (p= 0.782) before and after the training. Kinematically, participants exhibited greater peak hip flexion (p= 0.008) and knee flexion (p= 0.003) during swing. Footstrikeangle also reduced significantly (p= 0.008), indicating a footstrike pattern switch from rearfoot strike to midfoot strike. There was no significant difference in the trunk flexion in the sagittal plane after training (p= 0.658). After a course of Pose (R) Method gait retraining, runners demonstrated a footstrike pattern switch and some kinematics changes at the hip and knee joint during swing. However, injury-related biomechanical markers (e.g., VALR and VILR) and the trunk kinematics remained similar after training. Runners may consider other gait retraining programs for impact loading reduction.		[Wei, Rachel X.; Au, Ivan P. H.; Lau, Fannie O. Y.; Zhang, Janet H.; Chan, Zoe Y. S.; MacPhail, Aislinn J. C.; Mangubat, Anamaria L.; Pun, Gabriel; Cheung, Roy T. H.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Gait & Mot Anal Lab, Hung Hom, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Cheung, Roy T. H.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Rehabil Sci, Gait & Mot Anal Lab, Hung Hom, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000481184000001	33	Article; Article		
J	Nalbantis, Georgios; Pawlowski, Tim								US Demand for European Soccer Telecasts: A Between-Country Test of the Uncertainty of Outcome Hypothesis								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	6			797	818		10.1177/1527002518817598			AUG 2019	2019	Demand studies in sports relying on within-country settings are suggestive of cross-continental differences with regard to game uncertainty preferences. While North Americans seem to have a preference for tighter games, Europeans prefer games involving a favorite. Our study is the first to test this suggested pattern in a between-country setting with individual-level data. In contrast to the existing evidence from within-country settings, our demand models show that U.S. consumers do not value game uncertainty when watching European soccer. This finding suggests that, when examining the same sport, European and North American consumers' preferences seem to be quite similar.		[Nalbantis, Georgios] Univ Tubingen, Dept Sport Econ Sport Management & Media Res, Tubingen, Germany; [Pawlowski, Tim] Univ Tubingen, Res Grp Sport Econ Sport Management & Media Res, Tubingen, Germany; [Nalbantis, Georgios] Univ Tubingen, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany								13							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000485270900003	28	Article; Article		
J	Bradbury, John Charles								Monitoring and Employee Shirking: Evidence From MLB Umpires								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	6			850	872		10.1177/1527002518808350			AUG 2019	2019	Neoclassical principal-agent theory predicts stricter monitoring should reduce employee shirking; however, recent analyses indicate social aspects of principal-agent relationships may result in "crowding out" of disciplinary effects. Asymmetric implementation of an automated pitch-tracking system in baseball allows for the comparison of monitored and unmonitored umpires to identify shirking in light of incentives. Estimates identify some reduced shirking with monitoring; however, overall, umpires appeared to be quite sensitive to league directives absent technological monitoring. Extreme sensitivity to MLB mandates when unmonitored by the new technology indicates that preexisting monitoring (which included human oversight and efficiency wages) was effective at limiting shirking.		[Bradbury, John Charles] Kennesaw State Univ, Econ, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA; [Bradbury, John Charles] Kennesaw State Univ, 560 Parliament Garden Way NW, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000485270900005	38	Article; Article		
J	Serna Rodriguez, Maribel; Ramirez Hassan, Andres; Coad, Alexander								Uncovering Value Drivers of High Performance Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	6			819	849		10.1177/1527002518808344			AUG 2019	2019	This article tries to uncover the drivers of soccer players' market value in the five major European soccer leagues taking into account model uncertainty (variable selection) in a framework with 35 billion potential models. For this purpose, we use a hedonic regression framework and implement Bayesian model averaging (BMA) through Markov chain Monte Carlo model composition (MC3). To deal with endogeneity issues, instrumental variable Bayesian model averaging (IVBMA) is implemented as well. We find very strong, and robust evidence, that the most important value drivers are player's performance, participation in the national team (senior and under-21), age, and age squared.		[Serna Rodriguez, Maribel; Coad, Alexander] PUCP, CCGBS, Lima, Peru; [Ramirez Hassan, Andres] Univ EAFIT, Sch Econ & Finance, Dept Econ, Medellin, Colombia; [Serna Rodriguez, Maribel] PUCP, CCGBS, Lima, Peru								23							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000485270900004	65	Article; Article		
J	Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Javier Rojas, F.; Gomez-Martinez, Federico; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								Vertical jump performance is affected by the velocity and depth of the countermovement								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	8			1015	1030		10.1080/14763141.2019.1641545			NOV 17 2021	2021	This study aimed to explore the effect of the velocity and depth of the countermovement on vertical jump performance and the shape of the force-time curve. Seventeen university students performed two blocks of 18 countermovement jumps (CMJ) being instructed to jump for maximum height after performing the countermovement at a self-selected (SS-CMJ) or fast (F-CMJ) velocity. Each block consisted of six CMJ from a larger depth, six CMJ from a shorter depth, and six CMJ from a self-preferred depth. Mean and peak values of force, velocity and power, reactive strength index-modified (RSImod), jump height, and the shape of the force-time curve (unimodal or bimodal) were assessed. The F-CMJ provided a higher (mean and peak force, mean velocity, mean power, and RSImod) or comparable (peak power, peak velocity, and jump height) performance than the SS-CMJ. The shorter CMJ provided the highest values of mean and peak force, mean and peak power, and RSImod, while peak velocity and jump height were higher for the larger and self-preferred CMJ. The force-time curve was bimodal during the larger CMJ (100%) and unimodal during the shorter CMJ (65-88%). These results highlight that CMJ performance is influenced by the velocity and depth of the countermovement.		[Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Javier Rojas, F.; Gomez-Martinez, Federico; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, CIEDE, Fac Educ, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Concepcion, Chile; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain								87							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000479520600001	35	Article; Article		
J	Watts, Phillip B.; Espana-Romero, Vanesa; Ostrowski, Megan L.; Jensen, Randall L.								Change in geometric entropy with repeated ascents in rock climbing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	8			1031	1040		10.1080/14763141.2019.1635636			NOV 17 2021	2021	Lower geometric entropy (GE) could represent more economical movement in rock climbing. Repetition of a climbing route decreases energy expenditure (EE), however, association with changes in GE has not been studied. The purpose of this study was to observe changes in GE with repetition of a climbing route relative to changes in EE. Nine climbers completed nine ascents each, one week apart, on an indoor climbing structure. Digital video was recorded at 30 Hz and a marker point was digitised as an estimate of a climber's centre of mass position (CME). The displacement of CME was expressed as the length of the line of motion (LM). GE was calculated as ln((2 x LM)/CH)) where CH is the value of the convex hull about the LM. Indirect energy expenditure (EECLM) was calculated from expired air by the Weir method. Data were analysed for ascents 1 (A1), 3 (A3), 6 (A6) and 9 (A9) and compared via repeated measures ANOVA. GE was significantly different for A1 vs A6 and A9 (p < 0.05) and not different for other comparisons. GE was correlated with EECLM; r = 0.67 (p < 0.01). Climbers reduce geometric entropy with route familiarity and the lower entropy may be associated with lower energy expenditure.		[Watts, Phillip B.; Ostrowski, Megan L.; Jensen, Randall L.] Northern Michigan Univ, Exercise Sci Lab, Marquette, MI 49855 USA; [Espana-Romero, Vanesa] Univ Cadiz, Fac Educ Sci, Empowering Hlth Phys Act Exercise & Nutr MOVE IT, Cadiz, Spain; [Espana-Romero, Vanesa] Univ Cadiz, Fac Educ Sci, Dept Phys Educ, Cadiz, Spain; [Watts, Phillip B.] Northern Michigan Univ, Exercise Sci Lab, Marquette, MI 49855 USA								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000479520000001	12	Article; Article		
J	Varela-Olalla, Daniel; del Campo-Vecino, Juan; Leyton-Roman, Marta; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos								Rating of perceived exertion and velocity loss as variables for controlling the level of effort in the bench press exercise								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				21	1			41	55		10.1080/14763141.2019.1640278			JAN 2 2022	2022	There is a growing interest in the analysis of different methods for monitor fatigue during resistance training sessions. This study aimed to (1) analyse the relationships between the percentage of performed repetitions with respect to the maximum possible number (%REP), RPE and magnitude of velocity loss (VL), and (2) examine whether a multiple regression analysis with the RPE and VL as predictor variables could improve the goodness of fit to predict %REP in the bench press exercise performed in a Smith machine. Seven men performed a repetition maximum test, on 3 separate testing sessions, against 3 different absolute loads based on a target mean velocity (MV) according to an individual load-velocity profile (approximate to 1.00, approximate to 0.70, and approximate to 0.50 m/s). MV, VL, %REP and RPE were collected and used for analysis. Based upon quadratic polynomial regression analysis strong relationships were reported between the RPE and %REP (r(2) = 0.89 and SEE = 9.85%) and between the VL and %REP (r(2) = 0.91 and SEE = 9.85%). Multiple regression analysis with the RPE and VL as predictor variables improved the goodness of fit (r(2) = 0.94 and SEE = 7.18%) of the model to predict %REP. These results suggest that both RPE and VL are useful variables to accurately estimate %REP in the bench press exercise.		[Varela-Olalla, Daniel; del Campo-Vecino, Juan; Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos] Autonomous Univ Madrid, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Human Movement, Madrid, Spain; [Leyton-Roman, Marta] King Juan Carlos Univ, Sport Studies Ctr, Madrid, Spain; [Perez-Castilla, Alejandro] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Sport Sci, Granada, Spain; [Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos] Autonomous Univ Madrid, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Human Movement, Madrid, Spain								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000479780700001	41	Article; Article		
J	Wright, Steven C.; Grenier, Michelle								An Exploratory Study of Physical Education Teacher Education Graduates' Job Histories								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			555	566		10.1080/02701367.2019.1633458			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine the job histories of physical education teacher education (PETE) graduates over a 15-year span. Method: A total of 118 graduates/participants completed a Qualtrics, open-ended survey. Face validity of the survey questions was established via a panel of experts and the survey was pilot-tested by PE teachers. Data were analyzed inductively via constant comparison. Trustworthiness of the data was addressed via peer debriefing and the use of member checks. Results: During the first year after graduation, of the 118 participants in this study, 82% were employed in schools, with 48% securing full-time teaching positions in health and/or PE, and adapted physical education (APE), and the other 34% in roles such as part-time teaching. Ultimately, 75% of graduates taught full-time in health, PE and/or APE. A total of 7% of those who taught opted to leave teaching. Almost all of the 80 participants still teaching planned to teach till retirement, or a very long time, with none stating that they planned to leave the profession soon. A few (3%) stated that they were undecided, however. Conclusion: There is a lack of research in the area of job histories of PETE graduates in the United States, and much of the overall research on organizational socialization is dated. The authors hope to spur further inquiry into this important area. The results of this study are encouraging but follow up studies are envisioned to further examine issues such as job satisfaction and teacher/coach orientations from acculturation through the life span of teachers.		[Wright, Steven C.; Grenier, Michelle] Univ New Hampshire, 124 Main St, Durham, NH 03824 USA; [Wright, Steven C.] Univ New Hampshire, 124 Main St, Durham, NH 03824 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000477201400001	36	Article; Article		
J	Ward, Michael R.; Harmon, Alexander D.								ESport Superstars								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	8			987	1013	1527002519859417	10.1177/1527002519859417			DEC 2019	2019	We analyze the careers of Esports professional players. The Esport industry has been able to monetize growing spectator demand to offer tournament prize money amounting to US$113 million in 2017. A few hundred players, out of tens of thousands, earn enough to remain professional gamers exclusively. We examine three aspects of professional Esport player careers. First, a "superstar" effect leads to increases in the top prizes drawing amateurs into the professional ranks. Next, while age and experience affect player performance, player ability remains difficult to assess. Finally, career exits reflect a quick resolution regarding the uncertainty in player ability.		[Ward, Michael R.] Univ Texas Arlington, Econ, Arlington, TX 76019 USA; [Ward, Michael R.] ZEW Mannheim, Mannheim, Germany; [Harmon, Alexander D.] Ascens Analyt Grp, Ft Worth, TX USA; [Ward, Michael R.] Univ Texas Arlington, 701 S West St, Arlington, TX 76019 USA								46							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000477246000001	20	Article; Article		
J	Macadam, Paul; Chau, Anita; Cronin, John								Wearable resistance acutely enhances club head speed in skilled female golfers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	5			675	680	1747954119863882	10.1177/1747954119863882			OCT 2019	2019	Golf is a skill-based sport which requires optimal swing mechanics to improve golf performance. As practitioners seek training methods to improve swing kinetics without compromising swing kinematics, loading through wearable resistance is one training modality which enables the golf swing to be performed in an overloaded manner. The purpose of this research therefore was to explore the acute effects of wearable resistance on golf swing performance measures. A randomised cross-over design was used with five skilled female golfers (22.0 +/- 2.5 years, 163.1 +/- 3.3 cm, 57.1 +/- 3.4 kg and handicap 4 +/- 1.2) who performed a series of golf shots with and without wearable resistance of 1.6 kg (similar to 2.8% body mass) attached laterally to the posterior trail side of the body. Flightscope launch monitor and force plate technology were used to quantify changes in club head speed and ground reaction forces. Using a paired t-test used for statistical analysis, significant (p < 0.05) acute increases were found in club head speed (3.5%, p = 0.03), relative vertical ground reaction forces (11.4%, lead side, p = 0.01) and relative mediolateral ground reaction forces (7.1%, trail side, p = 0.03) with wearable resistance as compared to the unloaded condition. Wearable resistance enables a player to perform golf shots in an overloaded manner resulting in significant improvements in club head speed. Future research is required to assess the long-term adaptations to this form of loading on golf swing performance.		[Macadam, Paul; Chau, Anita; Cronin, John] Auckland Univ Technol Auckland, Millennium Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Macadam, Paul] Auckland Univ Technol, Millennium Inst, Auckland 1142, New Zealand								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000478193100001	26	Article; Article		
J	Nguyen, Matthew T.; Hsu, Wellington K.								Performance-based outcomes following patellar tendon repair in professional athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	1			110	115		10.1080/00913847.2019.1642809			JAN 2 2020	2020	Objectives: There are limited data on the impact of a patellar tendon repair to a professional athlete's career. The purpose of this study was to determine differences return to play (RTP) rate, career length, and performance-based outcomes after a patellar tendon repair in professional athletes of four different sports. Methods: Participants met inclusion criteria if initial reports of the date and type of surgery were corroborated by at least two independent sources of information through a well-established protocol of public newspaper archives, team injury reports, and player profiles. Players with other concomitant injuries of the knee or treated nonoperatively were excluded. One hundred and three athletes across professional baseball, basketball, American football, and soccer athletes were identified and met inclusion criteria. RTP rate, career length, and sports-specific performance statistics (i.e. player efficiency rating (PER) for professional basketball players) before and after surgery were collected for each athlete. Results: Seventy-nine (76.7%) professional athletes successfully RTP. American football athletes had the lowest RTP rate and the largest drop in performance in post-operative season 1 (P < 0.001). These athletes also experienced the shortest adjusted career lengths (P = 0.003) compared to players in the other sports. Basketball athletes played significantly less games through post-operative seasons 1 to 3 (P < 0.05). Soccer athletes had less goals and assists per game and played fewer games (P < 0.05) in post-operative season 1 that recovered to baseline by seasons 2 and 3. Conclusion: A patellar tendon rupture is a potentially devastating injury for the professional athlete. American football players appeared to have the worst postoperative outcome with the lowest RTP rate and a most significant decrease in performance in the first postoperative season. This procedure also had a significant short-term impact on soccer athletes who sustained decreases in short-term game performance. These findings are likely explained by the unique physical demands imposed by each sport.		[Nguyen, Matthew T.; Hsu, Wellington K.] Northwestern Univ, Feinberg Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, 259 East Erie St,13th Floor, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Nguyen, Matthew T.] Northwestern Univ, Feinberg Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, 259 East Erie St,13th Floor, Chicago, IL 60611 USA								19							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476980700001	32	Article; Article		
J	Eggers, Austin F.; Groothuis, Peter A.; Redding, Parker; Rotthoff, Kurt W.; Solimini, Michael								Universities Behaving Badly: The Impact of Athletic Malfeasance on Student Quality and Enrollment								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				21	1			87	100	1527002519859416	10.1177/1527002519859416			JAN 2020	2020	National accolades and positive media attention are frequently lavished upon successful collegiate sports programs. Correspondingly, studies have demonstrated that universities often benefit from the achievements of their athletic teams by increasing the schools' application numbers, student quality, and alumni donations. This study demonstrates that the opposite effect occurs when a university's sports team is accused of engaging in impropriety. Our findings suggest that the negative attention given to the National Collegiate Athletic Association postseason tournament ban of a men's basketball program could serve as a signal to prospective students regarding the quality of the institution. This perception ultimately leads to a decrease in the infracting university's enrollment the year before the ban that then rebounds the year after the ban. However, the ban reduces the percentage of high-achieving students who choose to attend the university after the ban has been implemented.		[Eggers, Austin F.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Finance Banking & Insurance, Walker Coll Business, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Groothuis, Peter A.; Redding, Parker] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Econ, Walker Coll Business, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Rotthoff, Kurt W.; Solimini, Michael] Seton Hall Univ, Dept Econ & Legal Studies, S Orange, NJ 07079 USA; [Eggers, Austin F.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Finance Banking & Insurance, Boone, NC 28608 USA								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000476442800001	29	Article; Article		
J	Bremer, Emily; Cairney, John								Reliable and Feasible Fitness Testing for Children on the Autism Spectrum								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			497	506		10.1080/02701367.2019.1623367			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: This study examined the test-retest reliability and feasibility of select fitness assessments in 7-12 year old children on the autism spectrum. Method: Participants (N = 14; n = 1 female; Mage = 9.5 +/- 1.7 years) completed 7 fitness assessments, administered in a random order, on two occasions: Bruce protocol; Modified 6-minute walk test (M6MWT); Wingate anaerobic cycling test; muscle power sprint test (MPST); sit & reach; standing long jump; and grip strength. Intraclass correlations (two-way mixed with absolute agreement) were computed to examine test-retest reliability. Feasibility was assessed by questionnaire following the first administration of each test. Results: The Wingate (ICC = .956), standing long jump (ICC = .925), grip strength (ICC = .913), and sit and reach (ICC = .829) tests demonstrated good- to- excellent reliability, while the Bruce protocol (ICC = .811), M6MWT (ICC = .510), and MPST (ICC = .703) demonstrated moderate- to- good reliability based on the 95% confidence intervals of the ICC. All tests demonstrated assessor-rated feasibility scores of 70/100 or higher and child-rated feasibility scores of 66/100 or higher. Conclusion: The results demonstrate moderate- to excellent test-retest reliability for select fitness tests. Short, single-instruction (e.g., standing long jump) tests may be more reliable than lengthier assessments (e.g., M6MWT) in this population. Implications of this work include the ability of practitioners and researchers to feasibly and reliably measure the fitness of school-aged children on the autism spectrum for ongoing health and behavioural monitoring and intervention purposes.		[Bremer, Emily; Cairney, John] McMaster Univ, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Bremer, Emily; Cairney, John] Univ Toronto, 55 Harbord St, Toronto, ON M5S 2W6, Canada; [Bremer, Emily] Univ Toronto, 55 Harbord St, Toronto, ON M5S 2W6, Canada								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475004600001	36	Article; Article		
J	Dar, Gali; Yehiel, Alon; Benzoora, Maya Cale'								Concurrent criterion validity of a novel portable motion analysis system for assessing the landing error scoring system (LESS) test								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	4			426	436		10.1080/14763141.2017.1412495			JUL 4 2019	2019	The landing error scoring system (LESS) assesses the quality of a landing after a jump. The quality of the jump is usually evaluated using a three-dimensional (3-D) motion analysis system or a two-dimensional (2-D) video analysis visually rated by a clinician. However, both methods have disadvantages. The aim of this study was to examine the concurrent validity of a novel portable motion analysis system (PhysiMax System') in assessing the LESS score by comparing it to video analysis. The study population included 48 healthy participants (28.45 +/- 5.61years), each performing the LESS test while two video cameras and the PhysiMax' simultaneously recorded the jump. The Physimax' system automatically evaluated the LESS. Subsequently, the examiners scored the test by viewing the video recordings, blinded to the PhysiMax' results. The mean LESS score, using the video recordings and the PhysiMax' was 4.77 (+/- 2.29) and 5.15 (+/- 2.58), respectively, (ICC=0.80, 95% confidence intervals 0.65-0.87), mean absolute differences 1.13 (95% confidence intervals; 0.79-1.46). The results indicate a high consensus between the methods of measurement. The Physimax' system's main advantages are portability, objective evaluation and immediate availability of results. The system can be used by athletic trainers and physiotherapists in the clinic and in the field for jumping assessment.		[Dar, Gali; Benzoora, Maya Cale'] Univ Haifa, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Social Welf & Hlth Studies, Haifa, Israel; [Dar, Gali; Yehiel, Alon; Benzoora, Maya Cale'] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Ribstein Ctr Sport Med Sci & Res, Phys Therapy Clin, Netanya, Israel; [Dar, Gali] Univ Haifa, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Social Welf & Hlth Studies, Haifa, Israel								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476553100008	32	Article; Article		
J	Churchill, Sarah M.; Trewartha, Grant; Salo, Aki I. T.								Bend sprinting performance: new insights into the effect of running lane								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	4			437	447		10.1080/14763141.2018.1427279			JUL 4 2019	2019	Athletes in inner lanes may be disadvantaged during athletic sprint races containing a bend portion because of the tightness of the bend. We empirically investigated the veracity of modelled estimates of this disadvantage and the effect of running lane on selected kinematic variables. Three-dimensional video analysis was conducted on nine male athletes in lanes 8, 5 and 2 of the bend of an outdoor track (radii: 45.10, 41.41 and 37.72m, respectively). There was over 2% (p<0.05) reduction in mean race velocity from lane 8 (left step 9.56 +/- 0.43m/s, right step: 9.49 +/- 0.41m/s) to lane 5 (left step: 9.36 +/- 0.51m/s, right step: 9.30 +/- 0.51m/s), with only slight further reductions from lane 5 to lane 2 (left step: 9.34 +/- 0.61 m/s, right step: 9.30 +/- 0.63m/s). Race velocity decreased mainly because of reductions in step frequency as radius decreased. These unique data demonstrate the extent of the disadvantage of inner lane allocation during competition may be greater than previously suspected. Variations in race velocity changes might indicate some athletes are better able to accommodate running at tighter radii than others, which should have implications for athletes' training.		[Churchill, Sarah M.; Trewartha, Grant; Salo, Aki I. T.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Bath, Avon, England; [Churchill, Sarah M.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Salo, Aki I. T.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Sport Hlth & Exercise Sci, Bath, Avon, England								20							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476553100009	13	Article; Article		
J	Carroll, Kevin M.; Wagle, John P.; Sato, Kimitake; Taber, Christopher B.; Yoshida, Nobuhisa; Bingham, Garett E.; Stone, Michael H.								Characterising overload in inertial flywheel devices for use in exercise training								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	4			390	401		10.1080/14763141.2018.1433715			JUL 4 2019	2019	The purposes of this investigation were to: (1) assess kinetic characteristics of overload, (2) examine eccentric and concentric muscle activations and (3) explore velocity measurement as a method of intensity prescription in inertial flywheel squat training. A series of two experiments were performed: one assessing kinetic and muscle activation characteristics of flywheel squat training using three progressive inertial loads. The second experiment assessed inertial load-velocity relationships using six progressive inertial loads. Peak force, net impulse, positive-negative impulse ratio and positive-negative impulse duration ratio were each statistically significant between all three load conditions (p<0.05). Concentric vastus lateralis muscle activation was the only significant increase between inertial loads (p<0.05). Although not statistically significant, concentric quadricep muscle activation was increased from the lowest to highest inertia. Conversely, eccentric quadricep muscle activation was reduced from the lowest to highest inertia. In the second experiment, statistically significant regression equations were observed for average concentric velocity (R-2=0.66) and peak concentric velocity (R-2=0.60). In conclusion, our results indicate (1) overload is possible kinetically, (2) phase-specific muscle activation responds differently to increased inertia and (3) velocity has the potential to be used for load prescription in the inertial flywheel squat.		[Carroll, Kevin M.; Wagle, John P.; Sato, Kimitake; Yoshida, Nobuhisa; Bingham, Garett E.; Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Ctr Excellence Sport Sci & Coach Educ, Johnson City, TN 37614 USA; [Taber, Christopher B.] Sacred Heart Univ, Coll Hlth Profess, Dept Exercise Sci, Fairfield, CT USA; [Carroll, Kevin M.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Ctr Excellence Sport Sci & Coach Educ, Johnson City, TN 37614 USA								55							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476553100005	32	Article; Article		
J	Pereira, Lucas A.; Abad, Cesar C. Cal; Leiva, Daniel F.; Oliveira, Gabriel; Carmo, Everton C.; Kobal, Ronaldo; Loturco, Irineu								Relationship Between Resting Heart Rate Variability and Intermittent Endurance Performance in Novice Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			355	361		10.1080/02701367.2019.1601666			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: This study examined the relationships between the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test level 1 (Yo-Yo IR1) and resting heart rate variability (HRV) and submaximal 5MODIFIER LETTER PRIME-5MODIFIER LETTER PRIME test derived measures in novice male soccer players. Methods: Forty players (11.54 +/- 0.58 years) from a soccer academy participated in this study, performing physical tests on two different days, separated by 48 h, as follows: (day 1) resting HRV and Yo-Yo IR1 test, and (day 2) anthropometric assessments (for peak height velocity assessment [PHV]) and the 5MODIFIER LETTER PRIME-5MODIFIER LETTER PRIME test. The Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient was used to determine the correlations between Yo-Yo IR1 performance and the remaining variables. A partial correlation analysis was further performed using age, stature, body mass, distance to PHV, and age at PHV as "confounders." Results: The highest correlation score was observed between Yo-Yo IR1 performance and resting HRV, when the absolute age was used as confounder (r = 0.72; p < .05). Conclusions: We observed that a practical measure of parasympathetic activity at rest is largely associated with performance obtained during a traditional intermittent endurance performance test.		[Pereira, Lucas A.; Abad, Cesar C. Cal; Carmo, Everton C.; Kobal, Ronaldo; Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Ave Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Leiva, Daniel F.; Oliveira, Gabriel] Red Bull Brazil Football, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Carmo, Everton C.] Senac Univ Ctr, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Ave Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000481518100011	34	Article; Article		
J	Alam, Farhan; Raza, Shahid; Moiz, Jamal Ali; Bhati, Pooja; Anwer, Shahnawaz; Alghadir, Ahmad								Effects of selective strengthening of tibialis posterior and stretching of iliopsoas on navicular drop, dynamic balance, and lower limb muscle activity in pronated feet: A randomized clinical trial								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			301	311		10.1080/00913847.2018.1553466			JUL 3 2019	2019	Objectives: Flexibility and strength are compromised in pronated feet, which could in turn lead to alteration of the dynamic balance and muscle activity in the lower extremities. This study aimed to analyze the effects of selective tibialis posterior strengthening and iliopsoas stretching on navicular drop, dynamic balance, and lower limb muscle activity in young adults with pronated feet. Methods: Twenty-eight participants with pronated feet were randomly assigned to either the stretching and strengthening group (n = 14) or the conventional exercise group (n = 14). The stretching and strengthening group performed tibialis posterior strengthening exercises and iliopsoas stretching three times a week for 6 weeks in addition to the conventional towel curl exercises. The conventional exercise group performed towel curl exercises only. Navicular drop, dynamic balance, and lower limb muscle activity were assessed at baseline and post-intervention. A mixed model analysis of variance was performed to test the study hypothesis. Results: Significant group effects for the activity of tibialis anterior (p = 0.003) and abductor hallucis muscle (p = 0.010), as well as for the posterolateral (p = 0.036) and composite reach scores (p = 0.018), were detected. Significant group x time interactions were observed for naviculardrop (p < 0.001), all dynamic balance components (p < 0.001), and the activity of tibialis anterior (p < 0.001) and abductor hallucis (p < 0.001). Conclusions: This study demonstrated that inclusion of selective tibialis posterior strengthening and iliopsoas stretching in addition to the conventional towel curl exercise program could improve important clinical outcomes, such as navicular drop, muscle activity, and dynamic balance in flatfeet.		[Alam, Farhan; Raza, Shahid; Moiz, Jamal Ali; Bhati, Pooja] Jamia Millia Islamia, Ctr Physiotherapy & Rehabil Sci, New Delhi 110025, India; [Anwer, Shahnawaz; Alghadir, Ahmad] King Saud Univ, Coll Appl Med Sci, Rehabil Res Chair, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; [Raza, Shahid] Jamia Millia Islamia, Ctr Physiotherapy & Rehabil Sci, New Delhi 110025, India								28							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800013	66	Article; Article		
J	Goodman, Avi D.; Raducha, Jeremy E.; DeFroda, Steven F.; Gil, Joseph A.; Owens, Brett D.								Shoulder and elbow injuries in NCAA football players, 2009-2010 through 2013-2014								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			323	328		10.1080/00913847.2018.1554167			JUL 3 2019	2019	Background: Although football is one of the most popular collegiate sports, the epidemiology of and risk factors for shoulder and elbow injuries in this population not been recently described. We aimed to characterize this incidence in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) football players, determine risk factors, and establish outcomes after injury. Methods: All shoulder and elbow injuries in men's football occurring during the 2009-2010 through 2013-2014 academic years were retrospectively identified in the NCAA Injury Surveillance Program database. The injury incidence per 10,000 athletic exposures (AEs) was calculated overall, and by different risk factors. In addition to descriptive statistics, risk factors were compared using injury risk-ratios, and outcomes were compared using injury proportion ratios. Results: NCAA football players sustained 1,187 shoulder and elbow injuries in 899,225 AEs (incidence: 13.20/10,000 AE), most commonly acromioclavicular separation (29.9%), anterior shoulder subluxation (9.0%), shoulder contusion (9.0%), and rotator cuff tear/sprain (8.0%). Together, shoulder instability comprised 28.1% of injuries. Injuries were split evenly between offense (43.5%) and defense (45.9%), and a tackling mechanism caused 37.7%, with 30.3% coming from blocking. The incidence was eight times higher in competition than practice (62.9/10,000 vs 7.9/10,000AE, p < 0.001). Surgery was performed for 9.9% of injuries, and most commonly for all types of shoulder instability (56.8% of surgeries). Injuries were season-ending in 5.2% of players. The likelihood of an injury being season-ending was 2.9 times greater for recurrent injuries than a new injury (p < 0.001); 86.1% of all injuries were new. Conclusions: Shoulder and elbow injuries to NCAA football players can be severe. Competition had an eight times higher incidence than did practice. Tackling and blocking were the most common mechanisms, while AC separation and shoulder instability were the most common injuries. This epidemiology may help players, coaches, trainers, and governing bodies target injury-prevention programs and assess improvement over time.		[Goodman, Avi D.; Raducha, Jeremy E.; DeFroda, Steven F.; Gil, Joseph A.; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Goodman, Avi D.] Dept Orthopaed, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800016	26	Article; Article		
J	Malek, Lukasz A.; Mroz, Anna; Czajkowska, Anna; Kosmol, Andrzej; Ogonowska-Slodownik, Anna; Molik, Bartosz; Morgulec-Adamowicz, Natalia								Accuracy of Impedance Cardiography for Hemodynamic Assessment During Rest and Exercise in Wheelchair Rugby Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			336	343		10.1080/02701367.2019.1600651			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: The aim of the study was to analyze the accuracy of impedance cardiography (ICG) for hemodynamic assessment in wheelchair rugby players during rest and exercise. Method: The study included 21 players (mean age 33.0 +/- 5.4, 86% male) with posttraumatic tetraplegia. ECG, echocardiography, and gas exchange analysis during rest and exercise were used to obtain heart rate (HR), stroke volume (SV), and cardiac output (CO) for comparison with PhysioFlow (R). Results: There was a good correlation between reference methods and ICG for HR, SV, CO at rest and CO at peak exercise (r = 0.69-0.77, p < .001) and a very good correlation for peak HR (r = 0.91, p < .0001). ICG overestimated SV at rest, CO at rest, and peak CO, which resulted in low intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC = 0.250 and 0.570). Conclusions: ICG can serve as a good estimate of basic hemodynamic parameters during rest and exercise in wheelchair rugby players but overestimates stroke volume and cardiac output.		[Malek, Lukasz A.; Mroz, Anna; Czajkowska, Anna; Kosmol, Andrzej; Ogonowska-Slodownik, Anna; Molik, Bartosz; Morgulec-Adamowicz, Natalia] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland; [Malek, Lukasz A.] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, 34 Marymoncka St, PL-01813 Warsaw, Poland								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000481518100009	43	Article; Article		
J	Dubin, Justin M.; Rojas, Jorge L.; Borade, Amrut U.; Familiari, Filippo; McFarland, Edward G.								Isolated complete ulnar collateral ligament tear of the elbow in a gymnast: does it need surgery?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			242	246		10.1080/00913847.2019.1589104			JUL 3 2019	2019	Ulnar collateral ligament (UCL) tears can occur from trauma or chronic overuse, and the treatment depends on the type of sport the patient plays and the severity of symptoms. Overuse UCL injuries are most commonly due to micro-trauma in overhead athletes such as baseball players, softball players, and tennis players. Acute complete UCL tears in athletes due to trauma are less common but generally operative treatment is recommended. In gymnastics, elbow dislocations are more common than isolated UCL injuries, and there is sparse literature on the success of non-operative treatment of isolated UCL injuries in this group of athletes. In this case report, we report a high-level competitive gymnast with an UCL tear and a partial tear of the forearm flexor mass, which was confirmed by a thorough careful physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging. The patient was treated non-operatively and successfully returned to gymnastics without symptoms. This case supports the suggestion that UCL tears of the elbow can be treated successfully in some gymnasts without surgery, and that treatment should be individualized in this group of athletes.		[Dubin, Justin M.; Rojas, Jorge L.; Borade, Amrut U.; Familiari, Filippo; McFarland, Edward G.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Div Shoulder Surg, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Baltimore, MD USA; [McFarland, Edward G.] Johns Hopkins Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 10753 Falls Rd,Suite 215, Lutherville Timonium, MD 21093 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800003	48	Article; Article		
J	Kox, L. S.; Kuijer, P. P. F. M.; Opperman, J.; Kerkhoffs, G. M. J. J.; Maas, M.; Frings-Dresen, M. H. W.								Content validity of the SOS-WRIST questionnaire for timely identification of wrist overuse in young athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			341	349		10.1080/00913847.2019.1568788			JUL 3 2019	2019	Objectives: Young athletes do not always seek medical help for overuse wrist injuries, risking invalidating long-term consequences resulting from late diagnosis. This study aimed to develop a questionnaire to identify overuse wrist injuries in young athletes. Methods: According to the COnsensus-based Standards for the selection of health Measurement INstruments (COSMIN) criteria, items were collected from literature and 6 focus groups of sports physicians and of young athletes with (previous) overuse wrist injuries. An expert panel and 40 Delphi study participants performed item reduction. Young athletes evaluated comprehensiveness during interviews and English translation was performed according to linguistic validation guidelines. Results: In total 323 items were generated and 110 were marked important by focus group participants. The resulting questionnaire consists of 18 multiple-choice questions about wrist pain during sports (e.g. pain during training, skipping training sessions/elements) and daily life activities (e.g. writing, turning a key), and other symptoms (e.g. reduced strength, swelling). Conclusion: The SOS-WRIST questionnaire for identification of overuse wrist injuries in young athletes has good content validity. It can be used to promote awareness and timely treatment of overuse wrist injuries in young athletes.		[Kox, L. S.; Opperman, J.; Maas, M.] Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Dept Radiol & Nucl Med, Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kuijer, P. P. F. M.; Frings-Dresen, M. H. W.] Univ Amsterdam, Coronel Inst Occupat Hlth, Amsterdam Publ Hlth Res Inst, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kerkhoffs, G. M. J. J.] Univ Amsterdam, Dept Orthoped Surg, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kox, L. S.; Kerkhoffs, G. M. J. J.; Maas, M.] Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kox, L. S.; Kerkhoffs, G. M. J. J.; Maas, M.] ACHSS, Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr AMC VUmc, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kox, L. S.] Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Dept Radiol & Nucl Med, Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800019	39	Article; Article		
J	Tebar, William R.; Ritti-Dias, Raphael M.; Saraiva, Bruna T. C.; Suetake, Vinicius Y. B.; Delfino, Leandro D.; Christofaro, Diego G. D.								Physical activity levels are associated with regional bone mineral density in boys								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			336	340		10.1080/00913847.2019.1568770			JUL 3 2019	2019	Background: Youth is a crucial period for bone gain, and physical activity (PA) has shown to increase bone mineral density (BMD) in this period. However, whether PA affects regional BMD is unclear. Thus, the aim of this study was to analyze the relationship between PA levels and regional BMD in youths. Methods: The sample included 110 children and adolescents aged 6-14 years. Body mass, height, sitting trunk length, and leg length were obtained for body mass index and maturity offset calculation. The arms, pelvis, spine, trunk, and legs BMD were measured by double energy X-ray absorptiometry. The PA was evaluated by questionnaire, and youths were classified as low, moderately, or highly physically active. Results: The sample included 63.7% boys and 36.3% girls with mean age of sample 9.5 (+/- 1.6) yrs. Age, body mass index, and maturity offset were similar between sexes (p > 0.05). Boys with low PA levels had lower BMD Z-score for arms (-0.20 +/- 0.71 vs. 0.30 +/- 1.19, p = 0.006) and legs (-0.14 +/- 1.00 vs. 0.35 +/- 1.06, p = 0.026) compared to highly physically active youths. Multiple linear regression showed a positive linear relationship between legs BMD and PA in boys (beta = 0.72 [95% CI = 0.09; 1.36]). Conclusion: In boys, low PA levels are associated with lower BMD in arms and legs.		[Tebar, William R.; Saraiva, Bruna T. C.; Christofaro, Diego G. D.] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Post Grad Program Movement Sci, Roberto Simonsen St 305, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Ritti-Dias, Raphael M.] Univ Nove de Julho UNINOVE, Dept Phys Educ, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Suetake, Vinicius Y. B.; Delfino, Leandro D.] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, GEAFS Res Grp, Dept Phys Educ, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Christofaro, Diego G. D.] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Post Grad Program Physiotherapy, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Christofaro, Diego G. D.] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Post Grad Program Movement Sci, Roberto Simonsen St 305, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, Brazil								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800018	30	Article; Article		
J	Coco, Marinella; Di Corrado, Donatella; Ramaci, Tiziana; Nuovo, Santo Di; Perciavalle, Vincenzo; Puglisi, Angela; Cavallari, Paolo; Bellomo, Maria; Buscemi, Andrea								Role of lactic acid on cognitive functions								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			329	335		10.1080/00913847.2018.1557025			JUL 3 2019	2019	Objectives: The aim of this research was to establish cognitive changes in relation to blood lactate levels obtained during slow performance of a regimen of exercise sessions. Methods: A total of 15 male professional bodybuilders participated in the study; CrossFit (R) professionals performed the Workout 15.5, Week 5 Open 2015 consisting of 27-21-15-9 repetitions for time of Row (calories) and Thrusters, with 1-min recovery. Blood lactate, blood glucose, reaction time (RT), execution time of a dual cognitive task, number of errors, and number of omissions were measured at rest, at conclusion of the session, and after recovery for 15 min. Results: The bodybuilders had slightly elevated basal lactate levels than in untrained individuals. The bodybuilders showed significantly increased lactacidemia and decreased RT after completing the training session. Need to define what onset of blood lactate accumulation (OBLA) means. Conclusion: We conclude that bodybuilding fitness regimens lead to an increase in basal lactate levels to 3.16 mmol/L and that acute training sessions can improve attentional performance in relation to lactacidemia, suggesting pro-cognitive effects of a workout.		[Coco, Marinella; Perciavalle, Vincenzo; Puglisi, Angela] Univ Catania, Dept Biomed Biotechnol Sci, Catania, Italy; [Di Corrado, Donatella; Ramaci, Tiziana; Bellomo, Maria] Kore Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Enna, Italy; [Nuovo, Santo Di; Puglisi, Angela] Univ Catania, Dept Educ Sci, Catania, Italy; [Cavallari, Paolo] Univ Milan, Dept Pathophysiol & Transplantat, Human Physiol Sect, Milan, Italy; [Buscemi, Andrea] Horus Social Cooperat, Ragusa, Italy; [Buscemi, Andrea] Ctr Studies Osteopathy, Dept Res, Catania, Italy; [Coco, Marinella] Univ Catania, Dept Biomed Biotechnol Sci, Catania, Italy								21							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800017	43	Article; Article		
J	O'Connor, Siobhan; McCaffrey, Noel; Whyte, Enda; Moran, Kieran; Lacey, Peter								Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use, knowledge, and behaviors around their use and misuse in Irish collegiate student-athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	3			318	322		10.1080/00913847.2018.1553468			JUL 3 2019	2019	Objectives: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are commonly used by athletes to treat injuries but are also reportedly misused as performance or recovery aids. This study aimed to investigate NSAID use, knowledge, and behavior regarding use and misuse of NSAIDs in Irish student-athletes. Methods: One hundred and forty-nine (21.2 +/- 3.5 years) student-athletes completed an anonymous questionnaire online. Descriptive statistics were used to summarize the data. Univariate and multivariate regression analyses were utilized to examine whether the associated factors could predict NSAID misuse. Results: Ninety-four per cent of respondents reported using NSAIDs in the past, 63.8% used NSAIDs previously before or after competition and/or practice, and 13.9% took more than the recommended dosage and this was higher (22.9%) for over-the-counter NSAIDs. More than half were unsure of NSAID side effects. Misuse of NSAIDs was more common in respondents who had more favorable attitudes to the benefits of NSAIDs (odds ratio [OR] = 4.83, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.18-19.61), high reported stress (OR = 1.73, 95% CI = 0.58-1.73), or greater behavioral intention to use NSAIDs (OR = 1.89, 95% CI = 0.90-4.53). High perceived athletic identity also significantly predicted behavioral intention (p = 0.01). Conclusion: Education strategies to improve student-athletes' knowledge of appropriate use and side effects of NSAIDs are recommended, particularly for those with high levels of stress and athletic identity.		[O'Connor, Siobhan; McCaffrey, Noel; Whyte, Enda; Moran, Kieran; Lacey, Peter] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, H270A, Dublin 9, Ireland; [O'Connor, Siobhan] Dublin City Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, H270A, Dublin 9, Ireland								16							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000486087800015	27	Article; Article		
J	Dingenen, Bart; Malliaras, Peter; Janssen, Tessa; Ceyssens, Linde; Vanelderen, Romy; Barton, Christian J.								Two-dimensional video analysis can discriminate differences in running kinematics between recreational runners with and without running-related knee injury								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				184	191		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.05.008			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: To determine whether two-dimensional video analysis could discriminate running kinematics between recreational runners with and without a running-related knee injury. Design: Case-control. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: Forty-two recreational runners (5 male-13 female injured; 7 male-17 female non-injured). Running-related knee injury was defined as the presence of anterior or lateral knee pain, resulting in altered running activity for at least one week. Main outcome measures: Foot and tibia inclination at initial contact, and lateral trunk position, contra lateral pelvic drop, femoral adduction, hip adduction, knee flexion and ankle dorsiflexion at midstance were measured with two-dimensional video analysis during running. Participant characteristics (sex, age, body weight, body length, body mass index, running volume before injury, running speed) and two-dimensional measured angles were compared between groups. Results: No significant differences in participant characteristics between groups were identified (P>.05). The injured group ran with greater contralateral pelvic drop (P=.035), femoral adduction (P=.021) and hip adduction (P =.001) at midstance, and significantly smaller foot inclination at initial contact (P =.031). Conclusion: Two-dimensional video analysis can discriminate kinematics between runners with and without running-related knee injury. Greater contralateral pelvic drop, femoral adduction and hip adduction at midstance may provide running retraining targets for runners with running-related knee injury. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dingenen, Bart; Janssen, Tessa; Ceyssens, Linde; Vanelderen, Romy] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Reval Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Clayton, Vic, Australia; [Malliaras, Peter] Complete Sports Care, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian J.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian J.] Univ Melbourne, St Vincents Hosp, Dept Surg, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Dingenen, Bart] Hasselt Univ, Fac Rehabil Sci, Reval Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300026	71	Article; Article		
J	Kenneally-Dabrowski, Claire; Serpell, Benjamin G.; Spratford, Wayne; Lai, Adrian K. M.; Field, Byron; Brown, Nicholas A. T.; Thomson, Malcolm; Perriman, Diana								A retrospective analysis of hamstring injuries in elite rugby athletes: More severe injuries are likely to occur at the distal myofascial junction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				192	198		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.05.009			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: To describe the most common hamstring injury scenarios and outcomes in elite rugby union. Design: Retrospective investigation. Setting: Hamstring injury data from an elite rugby union team was collected over five seasons and retrospectively analysed. Participants: 74 professional rugby players. Main outcome measures: Injuries were classified as new or recurrent. Injury severity, activity, player position, and whether the injury occurred during a match or training was determined for each injury. Injury location and grade were determined for more clinically severe injuries where Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) data was available (15 injuries). Results: Thirty hamstring injuries were sustained over the five seasons. The majority of injuries were new (93%), moderate in severity (60%) and occurred during running (77%). For more clinically severe injuries, the biceps femoris long head (BFlh) was the most commonly injured muscle (73%) and the distal myofascial junction (DMFJ) was the most common injury site (58% of BFIh injuries). Conclusions: Hamstring injuries most commonly occurred while running and in the BF1h muscle, which is similar to other sports. However, the most common intramuscular injury site was the DMFJ, which contrasts with reports from other cohorts. Future studies should ensure to include the myofascial junction when classifying injury location. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Kenneally-Dabrowski, Claire; Perriman, Diana] Australian Natl Univ, ANU Med Sch, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Kenneally-Dabrowski, Claire; Brown, Nicholas A. T.] Australian Inst Sport, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Serpell, Benjamin G.; Field, Byron] Brumbies Rugby, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Serpell, Benjamin G.; Spratford, Wayne; Brown, Nicholas A. T.] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Spratford, Wayne] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Lai, Adrian K. M.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biomed Physiol & Kinesiol, Burnaby, BC, Canada; [Thomson, Malcolm] Canberra Imaging Grp, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Perriman, Diana] Canberra Hosp, Trauma & Orthopaed Res Unit, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Perriman, Diana] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Physiotherapy, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Kenneally-Dabrowski, Claire] Australian Inst Sport, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								20							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300027	42	Article; Article		
J	Hannon, Joseph; Wang-Price, Sharon; Swank, Chad; Brizzolara, Kelli; Garrison, Craig; Bothwell, James; Bush, Curtis								The validity and reliability of the Vail Sport Test™ as a measure of performance following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				162	169		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.05.001			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: To determine the validity and inter-session reliability of the Vail Sport Test (TM). Design: Cohort study-exploratory methodological research design. Setting: Clinical Research Laboratory. Participants: Forty-eight participants who underwent ACL-R. Main outcome measure: Participants performance on the Vail Sport Test (TM) was graded by an experienced rater in real-time, and simultaneously recorded by a three-dimensional (3D) motion capture system. Construct validity was assessed using the reference standards of the camera system and the IKDC short form. To determine the between-day reliability, a subset of participants returned to repeat the test. Results: There were no significant difference between the scores collected in real-time and from the kinematic data on the involved limb (p = 0.222). There was a significant difference for the uninvolved limb (p = 0.015). There was no significant difference between the scores collected in real time and those of the IKDC (p = 0.885). Good inter-session reliability (ICC = 0.787) was found for the involved limb. Conclusion: The results of this study showed good reliability and partially support the validity of the Vail Sport Test as a measure of readiness to return to play. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hannon, Joseph] Texas Hlth Sports Med, 6301 Harris Pkwy,Suite 150, Ft Worth, TX 76132 USA; [Wang-Price, Sharon; Swank, Chad; Brizzolara, Kelli] Texas Womans Univ, 5500 Southwestern Med Ave, Dallas, TX 75235 USA; [Garrison, Craig] Texas Hlth Sports Med, 800 5th Ave,Suite 150, Ft Worth, TX 76104 USA; [Bothwell, James] Texas Hlth Phys Grp, 6301 Harris Pkwy,Suite 250, Ft Worth, TX 76132 USA; [Bush, Curtis] Texas Hlth Phys Grp, 800 5th Ave,Suite 100, Ft Worth, TX 76104 USA; [Hannon, Joseph] Texas Hlth Sports Med, 6301 Harris Pkwy,Suite 150, Ft Worth, TX 76132 USA								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300023	24	Article; Article		
J	Dos'Santos, Thomas; McBurnie, Alistair; Donelon, Thomas; Thomas, Christopher; Comfort, Paul; Jones, Paul A.								A qualitative screening tool to identify athletes with 'high-risk' movement mechanics during cutting: The cutting movement assessment score (CMAS)								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				152	161		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.05.004			JUL 2019	2019	Objective: To assess the validity of the cutting movement assessment score (CMAS) to estimate the magnitude of peak knee abduction moments (KAM) against three-dimensional (3D) motion analysis, while comparing whole-body kinetics and kinematics between subjects of low (bottom 33%) and high CMASs (top 33%). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Forty-one participants (soccer, rugby, netball, and cricket). Main outcome measures: Association between peak KAM and CMAS during a 90 degrees cut. Comparison of 3D whole-body kinetics and kinematics between subjects with low (bottom 33%) and high CMASs (top 33%). Results: A very large significant relationship (p = 0.796, p < 0.001) between CMAS and peak KAM was observed. Subjects with higher CMASs displayed higher-risk cutting postures, including greater peak knee abduction angles, internal foot progression angles, and lateral foot plant distances (p <= 0.032, effect size = 0.83-1.64). Additionally, greater cutting multiplanar knee joint loads (knee flexion, internal rotation, and abduction moments) were demonstrated by subjects with higher CMASs compared to lower (p <= 0.047, effect size = 0.77-2.24). Conclusion: The CMAS is a valid qualitative screening tool for evaluating cutting movement quality and is therefore a potential method to identify athletes who generate high KAMs and "high-risk" side-step cutting mechanics. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dos'Santos, Thomas; McBurnie, Alistair; Thomas, Christopher; Comfort, Paul; Jones, Paul A.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab, Manchester, England; [Donelon, Thomas] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Sect Sport & Exercise Sci, Canterbury, Kent, England; [Dos'Santos, Thomas] Allerton Bldg,Frederick Rd Campus, Salford M6 6PU, Greater Manches, England								85							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300022	86	Article; Article		
J	Morgan, Richard; Wright, Sheila Leddington; Noon, Mark; Robertson, Paul; Pric, Mike								Cervical range of motion in school age rugby union players: A cross sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				123	131		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.020			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: Provide normative values for cervical range of motion and describe trends in school age rugby union players. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: National 3 level club. Participants: 59 school age rugby union players across under 8 (n = 8), under 9 (n = 9), under 10 (n = 15), under 13 (n = 13) and under 15 (n = 15) categories. Main outcome measures: Cervical range of motion using a cervical range of motion device (CROM) to determine values for active range of motion. Results: This study established mean ranges of motion for each age group. Pooled mean ranges with standard deviations for each direction were, flexion 66 degrees (+/- 11), extension 73 (+/- 17), left rotation 69 degrees (+/- 9), right rotation 74 degrees (+/- 10), left lateral flexion 53 degrees (+/- 10) and right lateral flexion 49 degrees (+/- 12). No statistically significant differences were observed between the age groups, however, downward trends in lateral flexion were observed as age increased. School age rugby players had greater range of motion than senior playing counterparts. Conclusions: No statistically significant differences in ranges of motion were observed between the age groups of under 8 through to under 15. However, downward trends in some ranges of motion highlight the need for age specific monitoring for potential adaptations to continued playing and comparison to age matched non-rugby players. Inclusion of other risk factors such as head re-positioning sense should also be evaluated to help guide injury risk reduction strategies. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Morgan, Richard; Wright, Sheila Leddington; Noon, Mark; Pric, Mike] Coventry Univ, CSELS, Priory St, Coventry CV1 5FB, W Midlands, England; [Robertson, Paul] Anglia Ruskin Univ, CCSES, Cambridge CB1 1PT, England; [Morgan, Richard] Coventry Univ, CSELS, Priory St, Coventry CV1 5FB, W Midlands, England								0							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300018	27	Article; Article		
J	Florencio, Lidiane L.; Martins, Jaqueline; da Silva, Marcelo R. B.; da Silva, Janaina R.; Bellizzi, Gustavo L.; Bevilaqua-Grossi, Debora								Knee and hip strength measurements obtained by a hand-held dynamometer stabilized by a belt and an examiner demonstrate parallel reliability but not agreement								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				115	122		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.011			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: To verify the intrasession reliability and the agreement between strength measurement of hip and knee muscles using hand-held dynamometer stabilized by a belt or by an examiner. Design: Test-retest design. Setting: Knee and hip muscles strength were measured bilaterally using hand-held dynamometer stabilized by a belt and by an examiner. Participants: 24 young and healthy participants. Main outcome measures: The reliability was verified by the intraclass correlation coefficient(2.1) and the standard error of measurement. Agreement between stabilization methods was verified by the Bland Altman's method. Results: Reliability was excellent for all muscle groups when stabilized by a belt (intraclass correlation coefficient = 0.78 to 0.95) and by the examiner (intraclass correlation coefficient = 0.83 to 0.97); standard error of measurement ranged between lkgf to 4kgf at both methods, but they are proportionally lower when stabilized by the examiner. No agreement between both methods was identified for all knee strength measurements and for bilateral hip flexion, right internal and external rotation and left adduction. Conclusions: The hand-held dynamometer is reliable for hip and knee strength evaluation despite of the stabilization method. However, for the majority of the movements, greater strength and lower error are expected when the examiner stabilizes it. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Florencio, Lidiane L.] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Physiotherapy Occupat Therapy Phys Med & Rehabil, Madri, Spain; [Martins, Jaqueline; da Silva, Marcelo R. B.; da Silva, Janaina R.; Bellizzi, Gustavo L.; Bevilaqua-Grossi, Debora] Univ Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto Med Sch, Dept Hlth Sci, Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Florencio, Lidiane L.] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Dept Physiotherapy Occupat Therapy Rehabil & Phys, Campus Alcorcon,Ave Atenas S-N, Madrid 28922, Spain								33							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300017	29	Article; Article		
J	Sweeney, Emily A.; Potter, Morgan N.; MacDonald, James P.; Howell, David R.								Low back pain in female adolescent gymnasts and functional pain scales								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				66	70		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.019			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: To determine the scores of gymnasts with low back pain (LBP) on two functional pain scales: the Micheli Functional Scale (MFS) and the Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire (ODQ). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Gymnastics facilities. Participants: Female gymnasts aged 7-18 years. Main outcome measures: We grouped gymnasts into those having pain affecting gymnastics and those with pain not affecting gymnastics and then compared MFS and ODQ scores for various activities. Results: Eleven of the 29 participants (38%) endorsed LBP during gymnastics and 18 had LBP not affecting gymnastics. There were no demographic differences between the two groups. A significantly greater proportion of gymnasts who had pain during gymnastics reported pain with jumping (N = 11, 100% vs N = 8, 44%, p = 0.003) and lifting weights (N = 4, 36% vs N = 0, p = 0.016) compared to those not having pain during gymnastics. There were no significant differences between the two groups for pain with spine flexion or extension or for hip flexibility. Conclusions: Although gymnastics requires extreme flexion and extension of the spine, gymnasts whose pain affects them during gymnastics do not endorse more pain with these movements. Gymnasts with LBP during gymnastics are more likely to have pain with jumping and with lifting weights. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sweeney, Emily A.; Potter, Morgan N.; Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Orthoped Inst, 13123 E,16th Ave,Box 060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [Sweeney, Emily A.; Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, 13001 E,17th Pl,Box C290,Room E1354, Aurora, CO 80045 USA; [MacDonald, James P.] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Dept Pediat, Div Sports Med, 5680 Venture Dr, Dublin, OH 43017 USA; [MacDonald, James P.] Ohio State Univ, Coll Med, 700 Childrens Dr, Columbus, OH 43205 USA; [Sweeney, Emily A.] 13123 E 16th Ave,Box 060, Aurora, CO 80045 USA								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300011	32	Article; Article		
J	Abassi, Mohsen; Bleakley, Chris; Whiteley, Rod								Athletes at late stage rehabilitation have persisting deficits in plantar- and dorsiflexion, and inversion (but not eversion) after ankle sprain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				30	35		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.015			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: Document reliability and normative data for a novel device measuring weight-bearing ankle range of motion after ankle injury. Design: Cross-sectional Cohort, two occasions one day apart. Setting: Sports medicine hospital. Participants: 87 ankle-injured male athletes at a late stage of their rehabilitation and 25 uninjured subjects. The injured athletes had met all criteria to return to functional, on-field rehabilitation. Main outcome measures: Reliability (Intra-Class correlation Coefficient (ICC), and Minimum Detectable Change as a percent of the grand mean), weight-bearing range of motion (degrees) of dorsiflexion, plantarflexion, inversion, and eversion. Results: Good (dorsiflexion = 0.82[0.76-0.87] and inversion = 0.81[0.75-0.86]) and excellent (plantar-flexion = 0.93[0.90-0.95]) reliability was documented, however reliability for the eversion measure showed only fair reliability (0.61[0.49-0.70]). Reduced range of motion in the injured leg was seen in all 4 directions, however with different magnitudes: Large differences were plantarflexion (-8.5 degrees, ES = 0.80), medium for dorsiflexion (-5.2 degrees, 0.57), small for inversion (-4.8 degrees, 0.36), and trivial for eversion (-1.7 degrees, 0.15). Conclusion: The device demonstrated clinically useful reliability for measuring these ranges of motion in a functional, weight-bearing position. PF ROM showed the greatest reduction in range in these athletes at a late stage of their rehabilitation. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Abassi, Mohsen; Whiteley, Rod] Aspetar Sports Med Hosp, Sports City St, Doha 29222, Qatar; [Bleakley, Chris] High Point Univ, One Univ Pkwy, High Point, NC 27268 USA; [Whiteley, Rod] Aspetar Sports Med Hosp, Sports City St, Doha 29222, Qatar								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300006	29	Article; Article		
J	Verbrugghe, Jonas; Agten, Anouk; Eijnde, Bert O.; Vandenabeele, Frank; De Baets, Liesbet; Huybrechts, Xavier; Timmermans, Annick								Reliability and agreement of isometric functional trunk and isolated lumbar strength assessment in healthy persons and persons with chronic nonspecific low back pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				38				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.009			JUL 2019	2019	Objectives: to assess intra/inter-operator reliability and agreement of maximum isometric abdominal and back muscle strength in a functional trunk and isolated lumbar protocol, using an isokinetic dynamometer, in healthy persons and persons with chronic nonspecific low back pain (CNSLBP). Design: Test-retest. Setting: Participants performed two assessments consisting of two protocols on the Biodex 3 system, evaluating maximum isometric back and abdominal strength in a functional trunk and isolated lumbar position. During the first assessment, each protocol was executed twice, supported by different operators. Participants: Healthy persons (n = 20) and persons with CNSLBP (n = 20). Main outcome measures: Intraclass Correlation (ICC), Standard Error of Measurement (SEM and %SEM), and Minimal Detectable Change (MDC) of muscle strength outcomes and seat positioning characteristics were calculated. Results: Intra/inter reliability of muscle strength outcomes was excellent (ICC: 0.94-0.98), while seat positioning characteristics varied from low to high (ICC: 0-0.94). For muscle strength outcomes, %SEM ranged from 4.7 to 9.2% and MDC ranged from 14.3 to 29.8 Nm in trunk flexion and 39.1-68.5 Nm in trunk extension. Conclusions: The Biodex 3 system can be used reliably to assess maximum isometric trunk muscle strength with the aforementioned protocols in healthy persons and persons with CNSLBP. All muscle strength outcomes showed comparable agreement (%SEM < 10%). (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Verbrugghe, Jonas; Agten, Anouk; Eijnde, Bert O.; Vandenabeele, Frank; De Baets, Liesbet; Timmermans, Annick] Hasselt Univ, REVAL Rehabil Res Ctr, BIOMED, Hasselt, Belgium; [Huybrechts, Xavier] Jessa Ziekenhuis, Dept Rehabil & Phys Med, Hasselt, Belgium; [Verbrugghe, Jonas] Agoralaan 5,Gebouw A, B-3590 Diepenbeek, Belgium								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000474323300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Bravo-Sanchez, Alfredo; Abian-Vicen, Javier; Jimenez, Fernando; Abian, Pablo								Influence of badminton practice on calcaneal bone stiffness and plantar pressure								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	1			98	104		10.1080/00913847.2019.1635050			JAN 2 2020	2020	Objectives: The aim of this study was to analyze the plantar pressures and bone stiffness of the calcaneus in badminton players compare to healthy participants, as well as to detect possible asymmetries and chronic adaptations derived from the prolonged practice of badminton. Methods: Twenty-two badminton players (35.2 +/- 13.6 years, 169.4 +/- 8.2 cm, 67.6 +/- 13.7 kg) and 30 healthy controls (32.2 +/- 12.8 years, 170.7 +/- 9.5 cm, 66.25 +/- 14.84 kg) volunteered to participate in this investigation. A Footwork (R) Pro pressure platform was used to study plantar pressures and an Achilles (R) bone scanner was used to record the bone stiffness of the calcaneus. The variables analyzed were plantar surface, percentage of force per area (forefoot and hindfoot), distance between the center of pressure and the projection of the center of mass in standing, and calcaneal bone stiffness. Results: The values of bone stiffness of the calcaneus were higher in badminton players than control group in the dominant lower limb (Badminton = 114.32 +/- 18.97 U.A. vs. Control = 102.07 +/- 16.36 U.A.; p = 0.019) and non-dominant lower limb (Badminton = 115.12 +/- 21.95 U.A. vs Control = 101.37 +/- 15.72 U.A.; p = 0.014). Badminton players showed asymmetric values in mean pressure (dominant = 35.41 +/- 6.05 Kpa vs. non-dominant = 39.21 +/- 6.54 Kpa; p = 0.011) and distance among center of pressure of each foot and center of mass (dominant = 11.28 +/- 1.65 cm vs. non-dominant = 10.48 +/- 1.63 cm; p = 0.025). Conclusions: The calcaneal stiffness of the badminton players was higher than control group, which places badminton in the category of osteogenic sports. The badminton players showed an asymmetric pattern during the static balance, which may be an indicative of asymmetries derived from the continued practice of badminton.		[Bravo-Sanchez, Alfredo; Abian-Vicen, Javier; Jimenez, Fernando] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Sport Sci, Performance & Sport Rehabil Lab, Toledo, Spain; [Abian, Pablo] Comillas Pontifical Univ, Fac Humanities & Social Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Abian-Vicen, Javier] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Avda Carlos III S-N, Toledo 45071, Spain								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000473880200001	35	Article; Article		
J	Hayes, Meghan K.; Brown, Symone; Mulcahey, Mary K.								Women's Sports Medicine Programs in the United States: an interdisciplinary approach to the care of girls and women								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	1			81	85		10.1080/00913847.2019.1632157			JAN 2 2020	2020	Objectives: Multiple studies have shown that women are more susceptible to certain musculoskeletal (MSK) injuries than their male counterparts. In response to these identified differences, several institutions have established Women's Sports Medicine Programs (WSMPs). The purpose of this study was to determine the number of WSMPs and explore program characteristics such as geographic location, specialties represented, common conditions treated, program history, and patient population. Methods: An extensive internet search was conducted to identify WSMPs in the United States. The second part of this study involved a 13-question, anonymous, electronic survey that was distributed to the directors of identified WSMPs to gather further data. Descriptive statistics were used to analyze the data. Results: Nineteen WSMPs were identified and the majority have been in existence for 6 to 10 years (44.4%). The survey was delivered to 18 programs and 9 WSMP directors responded (50% response rate). The most commonly reported number of physicians, across all specialties, comprising the core network was two physicians (4 programs, 44.4%). Health care providers with fourteen different areas of specialization were identified across all programs. The most common conditions treated were patellofemoral pain syndrome (33.3%), stress fracture (33.3%), and ACL tear (22.2%). In 5 programs (55.5%), patients < 18 years of age accounted for less than 25% of total patients. Only 2 programs (22.2%) reported that >51% of patients were actively participating in sports. Conclusion: This study demonstrates that nineteen Women's Sports Medicine Programs have been established in the United States. These programs address conditions known to have a higher incidence in the active female population, however the WSMPs are not solely geared towards the treatment of active female athletes. The information provided in this study can serve as a guide for the development of future WSMPs, as well as, future research studies regarding WSMPs.		[Hayes, Meghan K.] Northwestern Univ, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Brown, Symone; Mulcahey, Mary K.] Tulane Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New Orleans, LA 70112 USA; [Hayes, Meghan K.] Northwestern Univ, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Chicago, IL 60611 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000473696500001	22	Article; Article		
J	Laroche, Manon; Roussel, Peggy; Cury, Francois								Identifying a motivational process surrounding adherence to exercise and diet among adults with type 2 diabetes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	1			68	74		10.1080/00913847.2019.1632154			JAN 2 2020	2020	Objectives: This paper aims to provide physicians with knowledge about the motivational processes surrounding exercise and diet for patients with type 2 diabetes and to offer patient support measures to favor self-management. To respond to this objective, the links between two kind of motivators (i.e., promotion and prevention foci), the Selection, Optimization and Compensation (SOC) self-management strategy, and adherence to exercise and diet of patients with type 2 diabetes were investigated for the first time in the literature. Method: A cross-sectional study was conducted with 491 French volunteer participants with type 2 diabetes diagnosed for at least 3 months (Age = 61.66 +/- 9.63; BMI = 29.8 +/- 5.9). Participants completed an online self-report survey measuring SOC strategy, promotion and prevention foci, and adherence to exercise and diet. Results: The main results of path and bootstrapping analysis demonstrated that promotion focus was positively related with SOC strategy (beta = .69, p < .001) whereas prevention focus was not (beta = -.01, ns.). On the other hand, SOC strategy was positively related with exercise (beta = .20, p < .05), general diet (beta = .49, p < .001), fruit and vegetable consumption (beta = .27, p < .001), and spacing of carbohydrates (beta = .40, p < .001), and mediated the positive link between promotion focus and these behaviors (bootstrapped 95% CI: [.11; .40], [.52; .81], [.22; .54], [.37; .70], respectively). Conclusion: This paper addresses a gap in previous research by evidencing a motivator that promotes self-management for exercise and diet among patients with type 2 diabetes. Our results suggest that physicians should privilege an interaction with patients oriented toward promotional motivation so as to favor their patients' self-management regarding exercise and diet.		[Laroche, Manon; Roussel, Peggy; Cury, Francois] Aix Marseille Univ, CNRS, ISM, Fac Sports Sci, Marseille, France; [Cury, Francois] Univ Toulon & Var, UFR STAPS, Toulon, France; [Laroche, Manon] Aix Marseille Univ, CNRS, ISM, Marseille, France								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475255800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Kouno, Masahiro; Ishigaki, Tomonobu; Ikebukuro, Toshihiro; Yata, Hideaki; Kubo, Keitaro								Effects of the strain rate on mechanical properties of tendon structures in knee extensors and plantar flexors <i>in vivo</i>								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	7			887	900		10.1080/14763141.2019.1615541			OCT 3 2021	2021	The purpose of present study was to investigate site differences in the effects of strain rate on tendon properties between knee extensors and plantar flexors. Elongation of tendon structures (L) in vastus lateralis and medial gastrocnemius muscles was measured by ultrasonography while participants performed ramp and ballistic contractions to their voluntary maximum, followed by ramp and sudden relaxation. The relationship between muscle force (Fm) and L was fit to linear regression, the slope of which was defined as stiffness of tendon structures. Hysteresis of tendon structures was calculated as ratio of area within Fm-L loop to area beneath loading portion of curve. In knee extensors and plantar flexors, L values at all force levels were significantly lower during ballistic than ramp contractions. However, no significant differences were observed in stiffness of tendon structures between two contractions at both measured sites. Hysteresis of tendon structures was significantly higher during ballistic than ramp contractions for knee extensors and plantar flexors. In conclusion, elongation of tendon structures was lower and hysteresis was greater during ballistic than ramp contractions. Furthermore, site differences in the effects of strain rate on tendon properties were not found between knee extensors and plantar flexors.		[Kouno, Masahiro; Ishigaki, Tomonobu; Ikebukuro, Toshihiro; Kubo, Keitaro] Univ Tokyo, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Yata, Hideaki] Wako Univ, Dept Human & Environm Well Being, Tokyo, Japan; [Kubo, Keitaro] Univ Tokyo, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475267200001	40	Article; Article		
J	Bacik, Bogdan; Sobota, Grzegorz; Fredyk, Artur; Juras, Grzegorz; Slomka, Kajetan J.								Postural sway during single-legged standing is dependent on the preceding and subsequent action and supports the stability and mobility trade-off hypothesis in classical dancers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	8			911	924		10.1080/14763141.2019.1617343			2021	2021	The details on how the position of balance examination is achieved (preceding movement) and what is happening after (subsequent movement) is scarce. We hypothesised that the postural sway in quiet standing can differ due to demanded stability or mobility associated with the preceding and subsequent action. The body sway will be lower with high stability demand task than a condition with high mobility task. Thirteen female ballet students were examined (aged 15.1 +/- 0.95 years). Participants were examined in the single-legged standing position as a part of gait initiation (G-I, high mobility) and termination (G-T, high stability) task with the use of force plate. The following Centre of Pressure (COP) variables were analysed: range and standard deviation of COP position, mean COP velocity for AP (anterio-posterior) and ML (medio-lateral) planes. The results showed that for ML plane, body sway was larger for G-I than G-T task. The lowest values of all variables in AP plane (except the COP range) were for G-T task. This difference, confirm our hypothesis, where this difference is not caused by the skills of the participants, but due to the measuring procedure and motor behaviour before and after achieving the measurement position. Our conclusion is limited to the specific posture and homogenous participants.		[Bacik, Bogdan; Sobota, Grzegorz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Biomech, Katowice, Poland; [Fredyk, Artur] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Gymnast Dance & Fitness, Katowice, Poland; [Juras, Grzegorz; Slomka, Kajetan J.] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland; [Slomka, Kajetan J.] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000472832700001	40	Article; Article		
J	Nardello, Francesca; Ferrari, Chiara; Spinelli, Luca; Zamparo, Paola								A kinematic analysis of water ski jumping in male and female elite athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	8			985	1000		10.1080/14763141.2019.1624813			NOV 17 2021	2021	The aim of this study was to perform a kinematic analysis of the in-run, take-off and early flight phases in water ski jumping and to analyse the differences in linear/angular parameters between males and females. Forty-two elite skiers participated in this study (27 males; 15 females); their jumps were video recorded during competitions: the time course of absolute (trunk, thigh, ski) and relative (hip, knee, ankle) angles was calculated, as well as the (trochanter) resultant speed. Males were able to reach faster in-run speeds than females (25.4 +/- 1.9 and 21.8 +/- 1.2 m/s, respectively) and jumped further (56.2 +/- 8.6 and 40.4 +/- 6.3 m). Longer jumps were correlated with faster speeds in all phases (r range: 0.87-0.91, p < 0.001, n = 42). From take-off to early flight skiers extend their hip (86-109 degrees) and knee (136-171 degrees) angles, lean their trunk forward (49-41 degrees) and raise their skis (20-51 degrees); no major sex differences were observed in the body position (or ski incline) in these phases and none of the angular parameters was correlated with jump distance. Our results suggest that skiers should focus on achieving a larger in-run speed to maximise performance in this discipline.		[Nardello, Francesca; Ferrari, Chiara; Spinelli, Luca; Zamparo, Paola] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Nardello, Francesca] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000473096400001	23	Article; Article		
J	Devismes, Morgane; Aeles, Jeroen; Philips, Johan; Vanwanseele, Benedicte								Sprint force-velocity profiles in soccer players: impact of sex and playing level								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	8			947	957		10.1080/14763141.2019.1618900			NOV 17 2021	2021	This study aimed to assess potential differences in force-velocity (Fv) profiles in both male and female soccer players of different playing levels. One hundred sixty three soccer players (63 women and 100 men) competing from the Regional to the National Belgian league were recruited. The participants performed two maximal 60-m sprints monitored via a 312 Hz laser. For each participant, the theoretical maximal force (F-0) and velocity (v(0)), maximal power (P-max), maximal ratio of force (RF) and the slope of the Fv profile (S-fv) were computed. Male players in the highest competition level showed higher values for all the Fv variables compared to lower level groups (Effect size range: 1.01-1.97). Higher P-max and v(0) were observed in the female players of highest competition level compared to all other groups (ES range: 1.09-1.48). Female players showed more negative S-fv than male players (ES = 1.11), which suggests that male players' Fv profile is more velocity-oriented compared to female players. This study shows that the determinants of sprint performance increase with soccer playing level in both men and women, but that the contribution of each variable varies with sex.		[Devismes, Morgane; Vanwanseele, Benedicte] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Aeles, Jeroen] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Philips, Johan] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Flanders Make Core Lab ROB, Dept Mech Engn, Leuven, Belgium; [Vanwanseele, Benedicte] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Movement Sci, Leuven, Belgium								37							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000473097400001	27	Article; Article		
J	Fares, Mohamad Y.; Fares, Jawad; Baydoun, Hasan; Fares, Youssef								Prevalence and patterns of shoulder injuries in Major League Baseball								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	1			63	67		10.1080/00913847.2019.1629705			JAN 2 2020	2020	Background: This study aims to explore the epidemiological patterns of shoulder injuries in professional baseball. Methods: The transaction lists of the 'Major League Baseball' website were screened for injuries from 2011 to 2016, inclusive. Only players that were placed on the 'Disabled List' were included in the study. Our database included the player's position, injury location, injury cause, and time spent on the Disabled List. Results: A total of 3090 injuries were recorded; 511 (17%) were shoulder injuries, making it the most vulnerable anatomic location in baseball (N = 511). Of the 511 shoulder injuries, 132 (25.8%) were due to inflammation, making it the most common cited cause of shoulder injury. Most shoulder injuries occurred in April with 125 (24%) injuries, while June and May came in second and third with 89 (17%) and 81 (16%) injuries, respectively. The pitcher was the player most prone to injury, as it constituted 78% of the injuries. The average time spent off by a shoulder injury was 69 days, which implicated substantial economic losses for the injured athlete's club. Conclusion: Shoulder injuries are prevalent in professional baseball. The overhead pitching motion puts the shoulder at risk and accounts for the high incidence of its injuries.		[Fares, Mohamad Y.] Amer Univ Beirut, Fac Med, Beirut, Lebanon; [Fares, Mohamad Y.] Univ Glasgow, Coll Med Vet & Life Sci, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Fares, Mohamad Y.; Fares, Youssef] Lebanese Univ, Fac Med, Neurosci Res Ctr, Beirut, Lebanon; [Fares, Jawad] Northwestern Univ, Feinberg Sch Med, Dept Neurol Surg, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Baydoun, Hasan] Amer Univ Beirut, Med Ctr, Dept Surg, Div Orthoped Surg, Beirut, Lebanon; [Fares, Mohamad Y.] Amer Univ Beirut, Fac Med, Beirut, Lebanon								29							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475273400001	24	Article; Article		
J	Solomito, Matthew J.; Garibay, Erin J.; Nissen, Carl W.								Deceleration phase elbow varus moments: a potential injury mechanism for collegiate baseball pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	5			629	638		10.1080/14763141.2019.1609073			JUL 4 2021	2021	The incidence of elbow injury experienced by baseball pitchers is on the rise. Biomechanical investigations focusing on the acceleration phase of the pitch have yet to elucidate a singular cause for these injuries. Leading to the question is there an additional significant stress on the elbow during other phases of the pitch? This study sought to determine the magnitude of the elbow varus moment during the deceleration phase of the pitching cycle for the fastball, curveball, slider and change-up. Eighty-seven collegiate-level pitchers were evaluated using motion analysis techniques to determine the magnitude of the elbow varus moment occurring during the deceleration phase. The results indicated that the elbow varus moment during the deceleration phase of the pitch was typically between 40% and 50% of the peak acceleration phase moment and was greatest when throwing a slider. Results also indicated that more pitchers experienced deceleration phase moments in excess of 50% of the acceleration moment when throwing breaking pitches. These moments which are the result of the pitchers' need to rapidly decelerate their arm produce an additional significant elbow varus moment that results in additional stress to the elbow.		[Solomito, Matthew J.; Garibay, Erin J.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Orthopaed & Sports Med Res, Farmington, CT USA; [Nissen, Carl W.] Sports Ctr, Glastonbury, CT USA; [Nissen, Carl W.] Res Bone & Joint Inst Sports Med, Hartford, CT USA; [Solomito, Matthew J.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Orthopaed & Sports Med Res, Farmington, CT USA								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476388100001	23	Article; Article		
J	Bullock, Garrett S.; Schmitt, Abigail C.; Chasse, Patrick; Little, Barrett A.; Diehl, Lee H.; Butler, Robert J.								Differences in PlayerLoad and pitch type in collegiate baseball players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	8			938	946		10.1080/14763141.2019.1618899			NOV 17 2021	2021	PlayerLoad is derived from a tri-axial accelerometer device and is a measure of an athlete's external training load. Tri-axial accelerometers (Optimeye S5, Catapult Sports, Melbourne, Australia) were worn by 25 collegiate pitchers during a pitching session. Pitches included fastballs, curve balls, sliders, and changeups. Peak and sum PlayerLoad were calculated for fastballs, curve balls, sliders, and changeups. Statistical analysis included paired t-tests (p < 0.01) and effect size indexes (ESI). Peak and sum PlayerLoad were higher for fastballs compared to changeups (N = 20; ESIpeak = 0.47, p= 0.001 and ESISum = 0.13, p = 0.001, respectively). Peak and sum PlayerLoad were not different comparing fastball to curveball (N = 12; ESIpeak = 0.24, p = 0.050 and ESISum<0.01, p = 0.106) and fastball to slider (N = 12; ESIpeak = 0.32, p = 0.088 and ESISum = 0.02, p = 0.221). Fastball velocity (37.1 +/- 2.1 m/s) differed from the changeup (33.8 +/- 1.9 m/s; p < 0.001), curveball (32.2 +/- 1.2; p < 0.001), and slider (33.8 +/- 1.3 m/s; p < 0.001). Pitching workload may differ based on pitch type. Pitch counts may not capture true player fatigue due to variability in stresses resulting from different pitch types.		[Bullock, Garrett S.] Univ Oxford, Nuffield Dept Orthopaed Rheumatol & Musculoskelet, Arthrit Res UK Ctr Sport Exercise & Osteoarthrit, Oxford, England; [Schmitt, Abigail C.] Univ Florida, Dept Appl Physiol & Kinesiol, Gainesville, FL USA; [Chasse, Patrick] Toronto Blue Jays Baseball Club, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Little, Barrett A.] OrthoCarolina, Charlotte, NC USA; [Diehl, Lee H.] Duke Univ, Michael W Krzyzewski Human Performance Lab, Durham, NC USA; [Butler, Robert J.] St Louis Cardinals Baseball Org, St Louis, MO USA; [Bullock, Garrett S.] Univ Oxford, Nuffield Dept Orthopaed Rheumatol & Musculoskelet, Arthrit Res UK Ctr Sport Exercise & Osteoarthrit, Oxford, England								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475219900001	20	Article; Article		
J	Exell, Timothy A.; Milligan, Alexandra; Burbage, Jenny; Risius, Debbie; Sanchez, Amy; Horler, Brogan; Mills, Chris; Wakefield-Scurr, Joanna								There are two sides to every story: implications of asymmetry on breast support requirements for sports bra manufacturers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	7			866	878		10.1080/14763141.2019.1614654			OCT 3 2021	2021	This study aimed to investigate: (1) the prevalence and magnitude of breast movement asymmetry, (2) the interaction between static and dynamic breast asymmetry and (3) the influence of sports bras on breast asymmetry during running. Position data were collected from 167 females whilst treadmill running and then a sub-group of 12 participants in different bra conditions. Breast movement asymmetry existed in 89% of participants, with resultant static breast position asymmetry larger in participants displaying dynamic asymmetry. Asymmetry was most commonly caused (60% to 75%) by greater movement of the left breast. No significant relationships were found between asymmetry and bra size or breast pain. Sports bras reduced asymmetry prevalence from 75% to 33% of participants in the antero-posterior direction but only from 75% to 67% of participants in the infero-superior direction. The magnitude of range-of-motion asymmetry reduced from 67 mm with no bra to between 6 and 64 mm in-bra in the infero-superior direction, with the best performing bra incorporating encapsulating cups and adjustable straps and underband. It is recommended that sports bras allow underband and strap adjustment to facilitate individual breast support and that asymmetry is considered when designing and fitting bras, which could utilise resultant asymmetry measured statically.		[Exell, Timothy A.; Milligan, Alexandra; Burbage, Jenny; Risius, Debbie; Sanchez, Amy; Horler, Brogan; Mills, Chris; Wakefield-Scurr, Joanna] Univ Portsmouth, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Portsmouth, Hants, England; [Exell, Timothy A.] Univ Portsmouth, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Portsmouth, Hants, England								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475220700001	27	Article; Article		
J	Walton-Fisette, Jennifer L.; Richards, K. Andrew R.; Centeio, Erin E.; Pennington, Todd R.; Hopper, Tim								Exploring Future Research in Physical Education: Espousing a Social Justice Perspective								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			440	451		10.1080/02701367.2019.1615606			OCT 2 2019	2019	Although there has been forward movement in identifying and addressing diverse learning needs, social justice education is not a significant part of the current standards for beginning teachers or K-12 students in the U.S. Throughout our standards-based history, social justice has been more of a hidden curriculum. To attain the 50 Million Strong by 2029 goal, it is vital to acknowledge that physical education is a social justice issue. Without consideration of the historical, political, and social contexts that permeate and frame physical education, along with the social identities and lived experiences of our future teachers and students, it is unlikely that this goal will be sustained. While concerns have been voiced relative to the standards-based teaching movement, in a country that espouses standards-based education, a first step in moving any educational reform forward is to formalize its inclusion in the national standards that serve to guide our discipline. A philosophical shift may be what is needed for change to occur regarding social justice education in an attempt to enhance the learning opportunities for all students. A forward step in creating this change is to address the research and pedagogical practices of our current physical education teacher education and K-12 programs, along with the physical education standards and policies at the national and state levels. We specifically articulate connections between social justice education and four key, interconnected research areas related to (a) occupational socialization, (b) curriculum, instruction, and assessment, (c) technology, and (d) professional development.		[Walton-Fisette, Jennifer L.] Kent State Univ, 304P White Hall, Kent, OH 44242 USA; [Richards, K. Andrew R.] Univ Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801 USA; [Centeio, Erin E.] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Pennington, Todd R.] Brigham Young Univ, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Hopper, Tim] Univ Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Walton-Fisette, Jennifer L.] Kent State Univ, 304P White Hall, Kent, OH 44242 USA								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000472248400001	75	Article; Article		
J	Psycharakis, Stelios G.; Eagle, Shawn R.; Moir, Gavin L.; Rawcliffe, Alex; Mckenzie, Clive; Graham, Scott M.; Lamont, Hugh S.; Connaboy, Chris								Effects of Additional Load on the Occurrence of Bilateral Deficit in Counter-Movement and Squat Jumps								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	4			461	469		10.1080/02701367.2019.1617394			OCT 2 2019	2019	Purpose: A vertical jump (VJ) is a common task performed in several sports, with the height achieved correlated to skilled performance. Loaded VJs are often used in the training of recreational and professional athletes. The bilateral deficit (BLD), which refers to the difference between the heights achieved by a bilateral jump and the sum of two unilateral jumps, has not been reported for loaded jumps and the findings for unloaded jumps are inconclusive. The purpose of this study was threefold: (a) to quantify and compare BLD in countermovement (CMJ) and squat jumps (SJ), (b) to explore the effects of an additional 10% of body weight (BW) load on the BLD in both CMJ and SJ, and (c) examine the relationship between magnitude of BLD and jump performance in both jumps and conditions. Methods: Forty participants (22 for CMJ and 18 for SJ) performed a bilateral jump and unilateral jumps on each leg with and without an added load equivalent to 10% of each participant's bodyweight. Results: BLD was evident in all conditions, with CMJ BLD values nearly double those for the SJ. The extra load did not affect the magnitude of BLD. BLD had a significant correlation with unilateral jump height, expect for the 110%BW SJ. Conclusions: BLD is present in SJs and CMJs at both loaded and unloaded conditions. The SJs have about half of the BLD observed in CMJs regardless of additional load. Participants who had higher single leg jumps seemed to also have higher BLDs, but there was no evidence of association between the bilateral jump height and BLD.		[Psycharakis, Stelios G.] Univ Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Eagle, Shawn R.; Connaboy, Chris] Univ Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260 USA; [Moir, Gavin L.] East Stroudsburg Univ, East Stroudsburg, PA USA; [Rawcliffe, Alex; Mckenzie, Clive; Graham, Scott M.] Edinburgh Napier Univ, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Lamont, Hugh S.] Coastal Carolina Univ, Conway, SC USA; [Psycharakis, Stelios G.] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Phys Educ & Hlth Sci, Holyrood Rd, Edinburgh EH8 8AQ, Midlothian, Scotland								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000476123400001	26	Article; Article		
J	Yanovich, Ran; Ketko, Itay; Muginshtein-Simkovitch, Jeni; Yanovich, Einat; Eliyahu, Uri; Fleischmann, Chen; Atias-Varon, Danit; Waissengrin, Barliz; Makranz, Chen; Heled, Yuval								Physiological Differences Between Heat Tolerant and Heat Intolerant Young Healthy Women								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			307	317		10.1080/02701367.2019.1599799			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: Heat intolerance (HI) is determined in the Israel Defense Force according to a heat tolerance test (HTT) before returning to duty after an exertional heat stroke (EHS) event. Recently, increased numbers of female combatants resulted in an increased number of EHS cases among women and a higher percentage of heat intolerance (HI) individuals. We aimed to evaluate the differences between tolerance to heat among women performing an HTT in relation to their menstrual cycle phase. Method: Thirty-three female participants were sorted into two groups: HI and heat tolerant (HT) according to two HTTs performed during both the luteal and follicular phases of the menstrual cycle or while consuming and during a break from consuming contraceptives. Results: HT women had an 18% higher maximal oxygen uptake (p < .005, 95% CI [2.6,9.8]) and 1.2% lower skin temperature in the HTT at the during and follicular phases (p < .01, 95% CI [0.12,0.77]) and 1.7% lower at the off and luteal phases (p < .001, 95% CI [0.34,0.92]). The mean sweat rate was 14% lower among the HI group only at the HTT at the during and follicular phases (p < .05, 95% CI (3,88)]). Conclusion: We found that HT can be predicted using aerobic capacity and core body temperature. Moreover, during the luteal phase, women presented altered thermoregulation that decreased the probability of being HT. This emphasizes the importance of considering the HT/HI criteria in the HTT for women, according to their aerobic ability and menstrual-cycle phase.		[Yanovich, Ran; Ketko, Itay; Muginshtein-Simkovitch, Jeni; Eliyahu, Uri; Fleischmann, Chen; Atias-Varon, Danit; Waissengrin, Barliz; Makranz, Chen; Heled, Yuval] Sheba Med Ctr, Tel Hashomer, Israel; [Yanovich, Ran; Ketko, Itay; Fleischmann, Chen] IDF Med Corps, Tel Hashomer, Israel; [Yanovich, Ran; Yanovich, Einat] Wingate Coll Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Tel Hashomer, Israel; [Yanovich, Ran] Sheba Med Ctr, Heller Inst Med Res, IL-5265601 Tel Hashomer, Israel								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000473948400001	36	Article; Article		
J	Forrester, Lynn Ann; Schweppe, Eric A.; Popkin, Charles A.								Variability in rehabilitation protocols following pediatric anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	4			448	454		10.1080/00913847.2019.1622472			OCT 2 2019	2019	Objectives: The objective of this study was to assess the variability of publicly available pediatric anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction rehabilitation protocols produced by academic orthopedic surgery departments and children's hospitals. Methods: A web-based search was performed to identify rehabilitation protocols. Protocol and literature review guided the development of a comprehensive scoring rubric that was used to assess protocols for the presence and timing of postoperative adjunctive therapy and physical therapy recommendations. Results: A search of 180 academic orthopedic surgery programs and 250 children's hospitals identified 21 rehabilitation protocols. A majority of these protocols (90%) recommended postoperative adjunctive therapies such as bracing (81%), cryotherapy (43%), electrical muscle stimulation (24%), and/or continuous passive motion (14%). Several protocols (57%) recommended a specific weight-bearing status in the immediate postoperative period, but there was minimal consensus on that status. Conversely, there was more agreement amongst protocols that recommended strength exercises (52%); a majority of protocols suggested quad sets (91%), ankle pumps (73%), leg press (64%), and/or double-leg squats (55%). Ten protocols (48%) recommended initiation of stretches in the first week following surgery, and most commonly suggested patella mobilizations start at an average of 1.9 weeks postop (range 0-8 weeks). Twelve protocols (57%) discussed return to play, with an average recommended return to play at 7.5 months (range 3-11 months) postoperatively. However, few protocols recommended that patients get approval from their surgeon (19%) or pass specific tests (24%) prior to return to play. Conclusion: Few academic departments of orthopedic surgery or children's hospitals publish pediatric ACL reconstruction protocols online. Given the substantial variability observed amongst these protocols and recent findings that patients increasingly turn to the internet for medical information, this study suggests that standardization of pediatric ACL reconstruction rehabilitation has the potential to further optimize patient care.		[Forrester, Lynn Ann; Schweppe, Eric A.; Popkin, Charles A.] Columbia Univ, Med Ctr, New York Presbyterian, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY 10032 USA; [Forrester, Lynn Ann] Columbia Univ, Med Ctr, New York Presbyterian, Dept Orthoped Surg, New York, NY 10032 USA								15							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000475071200001	39	Article; Article		
J	Hammam, Nevin; Ezeugwu, Victor E.; Rumsey, Dax G.; Manns, Patricia J.; Pritchard-Wiart, Lesley								Physical activity, sedentary behavior, and long-term cardiovascular risk in individuals with rheumatoid arthritis								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	4			463	470		10.1080/00913847.2019.1623995			OCT 2 2019	2019	Objective: Individuals with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Lifestyle factors such as prolonged sedentary behavior (SB) and reduced physical activity (PA) may heighten the risk of CVD. The objective of the study was to investigate the role of SB and PA as predictors for long-term CVD risk in RA patients. Methods: A subsample of 273 people diagnosed with RA was extracted from the 2003-2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey and included in this cross-sectional study. Valid accelerometry data were categorized into sedentary behavior, very light, light, and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity. Functional limitations were assessed using a physical function questionnaire. The Framingham risk score (FRS) was used to calculate 10-year CVD risk. Regression models were used to examine the relationships between SB, PA, and 10-year CVD risk while controlling for potential confounders. Results: Participants spent an average of 9 h/day sedentary, 4 h in very light PA, 1 h in light PA, and 0.4 h in moderate-to-vigorous PA. Greater sedentary time was associated with higher 10-year CVD risk (p= 0.019). Increased daily PA, at all intensities, was inversely associated with 10-year CVD risk (p< 0.01). In the fully adjusted regression model, associations between 10-year CVD risk and SB (beta = 0.31, R-2 = 0.27, p< 0.01), very light PA (beta = -0.19, R-2 = 0.26, p< 0.01), light PA (beta = -0.16, R-2 = 0.25, p< 0.01), and moderate-to-vigorous PA (beta = -0.15, R-2 = 0.25, p< 0.01) remained significant. Conclusions: Strategies for decreasing SB and increasing PA should be explored with individuals with RA in order to decrease long-term CVD risk.		[Hammam, Nevin; Ezeugwu, Victor E.; Manns, Patricia J.; Pritchard-Wiart, Lesley] Univ Alberta, Fac Rehabil Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Corbett Hall,8205 114 St, Edmonton, AB T6G 2G4, Canada; [Hammam, Nevin] Assiut Univ, Fac Med, Dept Rheumatol & Rehabil, Assiut, Egypt; [Rumsey, Dax G.] Univ Alberta, Stollery Childrens Hosp, Dept Pediat, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Hammam, Nevin] Univ Alberta, Fac Rehabil Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Corbett Hall,8205 114 St, Edmonton, AB T6G 2G4, Canada								18							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000472298800001	57	Article; Article		
J	Stein, Cynthia J.; Sugimoto, Dai; Slick, Nathalie R.; Lanois, Corey J.; Dahlberg, Bridget W.; Zwicker, Rebecca L.; Micheli, Lyle J.								Hallux sesamoid fractures in young athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	4			441	447		10.1080/00913847.2019.1622246			OCT 2 2019	2019	Objective: To describe the evaluation, management and recovery time of hallux sesamoid fractures in young athletes. Methods: A retrospective chart review was performed in a large academic teaching institution over a 5-year period (1/1/2010-12/31/2014). All patients with a sesamoid injury were initially included. Excluded were those patients who: 1) did not receive the diagnosis of hallux sesamoid fracture, had a history of prior foot surgery, or had medical records inadequate for analysis, 2) had missing or unclear diagnostic imaging, 3) were age >21 years, or 4) did not report sports participation. Descriptive statistics were employed to analyze the data. Results: Fifty-eight patients (51 females and 7 males) with a mean age of 15.4 years (range: 9-21) were identified with a total of 59 sesamoid fractures. Dancing (37.9%), running (13.8%), and gymnastics (13.8%) were the most common sports reported among these patients. A greater number of fractures were classified as repetitive stress injuries (83.1%), rather than acute traumatic injuries (16.9%). Fractures were treated conservatively in the majority of cases (89.8%), and only six fractures (10.2%) were treated surgically. Most patients (84.7%) were able to return to sports and activities. The average time from diagnosis/start of treatment to pain-free state/cleared to return to sport was 161.4 days. Conclusion: Diagnosis of sesamoid fractures can be challenging, but overall most patients do well with conservative treatment and are able to return to sports and activities. Providers should keep sesamoid fracture in the differential when evaluating patients with pain in the area around the base of the first toe, especially in dancers, gymnasts, and runners. Understanding that the recovery from a sesamoid fracture can be a prolonged process may help patients develop realistic expectations.		[Stein, Cynthia J.; Sugimoto, Dai; Slick, Nathalie R.; Lanois, Corey J.; Dahlberg, Bridget W.; Zwicker, Rebecca L.; Micheli, Lyle J.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Stein, Cynthia J.; Sugimoto, Dai; Micheli, Lyle J.] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthoped Surg, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Micheli, Lyle J.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Stein, Cynthia J.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA 02115 USA								15							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000472299800001	17	Article; Article		
J	Armstrong, Ross								The relationship between the functional movement screen, star excursion balance test and the Beighton score in dancers								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	1			53	62		10.1080/00913847.2019.1624658			JAN 2 2020	2020	Objectives: To determine the association between the Functional Movement Screen (FMS), Star Excursion Balance Test (SEBT) and the Beighton Score (BS) in dancers with implications for performance and injury. Methods: The study was of cross-sectional design and included 47 female university dancers (age: 20.4 +/- 0.7 years, height: 160.5 +/- 5.8 cm; mass: 55.6 +/- 4.8 kg). Participants completed the FMS and the anterior, posteromedial and posterolateral reach components of the SEBT and hypermobility was assessed via the BS. Results: A fair significant correlation existed between FMS composite and total BS (r = 0.37, p = 0.01). For individual elements of the screening tools, there were 24 significant correlations between the FMS and the BS, 11 significant correlations between the FMS and SEBT and 4 significant correlations between the SEBT and BS. Conclusion: The FMS and the BS correlations highlighted the importance of the deep squat in functional movement and the relationship between FMS mobility elements and the BS. The significant correlation between the FMS and the BS may suggest that they capture similar information. The active straight leg raise and shoulder mobility measurements should be considered key elements to measure during screening.		[Armstrong, Ross] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Sports Injuries Res Grp, Ormskirk, England; [Armstrong, Ross] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, St Helens Rd, Ormskirk L39 4QP, Lancs, England								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000471494800001	68	Article; Article		
J	Machado, Joao Claudio; Barreira, Daniel; Teoldo, Israel; Travassos, Bruno; Bosco Junior, Joao; Libardoni Dos Santos, Joao Otacilio; Scaglia, Alcides Jose								How Does the Adjustment of Training Task Difficulty Level Influence Tactical Behavior in Soccer?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			403	416		10.1080/02701367.2019.1612511			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: This study aimed to investigate if player tactical skill level and age category influence team performance and player exploratory behavior in tasks with different difficulty levels. Method: In total, 48 youth male soccer players participated in the study (U15, n = 24, mean age = 13.06 +/- 1.53 years; U17, n = 24, mean age = 16.89 +/- 0.11 years). Player tactical skills were evaluated through the System of Tactical Assessment in Soccer (FUT-SAT), allowing them to be organized into three groups according to tactical efficiency: Higher tactical skill level (Group 01), Intermediate tactical skill level (Group 02), and Lower tactical skill level (Group 03). Next, Group 01 and Group 03 of both categories performed six Small-Sided and Conditioned Games (SSCG) each, namely three High difficulty SSCGs and three Low difficulty SSCGs. Team performance and players' exploratory behavior were analyzed through the Offensive Sequences Characterization System and Lag Sequential Analysis, respectively. Results: We found that team performance and players' exploratory behavior were influenced both by the age and tactical skill level of the players, as well as by task difficulty level. Conclusion: Therefore, in an attempt to improve player performance, practitioners must carefully manipulate key task constraints to adapt training task difficulty levels to player age and tactical skill level.		[Machado, Joao Claudio; Bosco Junior, Joao; Libardoni Dos Santos, Joao Otacilio] Univ Fed Amazonas, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Machado, Joao Claudio; Scaglia, Alcides Jose] Univ Estadual Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Barreira, Daniel] Univ Porto, Porto, Portugal; [Teoldo, Israel] Univ Fed Vicosa, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Travassos, Bruno] Univ Beira Interior, Covilha, Portugal; [Travassos, Bruno] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Covilha, Portugal; [Machado, Joao Claudio] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab LEDEHU, Gen Rodrigo Otavio Jordao Ramos Ave,6-200, BR-69080900 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil								36							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000472280000001	35	Article; Article		
J	Piana, Lauren E.; Garvey, Kirsten D.; Kroshus, Emily; Brook, Emily M.; Matzkin, Elizabeth G.								Implementation and effect of concussion education in collegiate women's ice hockey								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				48	1			46	52		10.1080/00913847.2019.1624657			JAN 2 2020	2020	Objective: This study aimed to determine whether collegiate women's ice hockey players are receiving pre-season concussion education and evaluate the nature and delivery of this education. Secondarily, we aimed to assess whether players who recall receiving this education have greater knowledge about concussion or are more likely to have reported suspected concussions than their peers. Methods: An anonymous survey was completed by 459 NCAA women's ice hockey players. Players self-reported receipt of pre-season concussion education, year in school, division of competition, player position, and average length of ice hockey career. Players also completed scales assessing concussion knowledge, attitudes and prior reporting behavior for suspected concussions. Results: 65.3% of athletes affirmed that they received pre-season concussion education. Lecture by an athletic trainer was the most common modality. There were no differences in concussion knowledge or attitudes by concussion education status, NCAA division of competition, or year in school. Players with higher knowledge scores were more likely than their peers to have experienced a suspected concussion and to have not reported it (p = 0.056). Conclusions: Not all NCAA women's ice hockey players are receiving (or recall receiving) mandated concussion education from their institution. The inverse association between concussion knowledge and concussion reporting behavior, while not statistically significant, is concerning and warrants further study. More work is needed to develop educational materials about concussion that are acceptable and memorable to this population, and that help increase concussion care-seeking behaviors.		[Piana, Lauren E.; Garvey, Kirsten D.; Brook, Emily M.; Matzkin, Elizabeth G.] Brigham & Womens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 75 Francis St, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Piana, Lauren E.] Univ Tennessee, Coll Med, Memphis, TN USA; [Kroshus, Emily] Univ Washington, Dept Pediat, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [Matzkin, Elizabeth G.] Brigham & Womens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 75 Francis St, Boston, MA 02115 USA								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000471500700001	25	Article; Article		
J	Caterisano, Anthony; Decker, Donald; Snyder, Ben; Feigenbaum, Matt; Glass, Rob; House, Paul; Sharp, Carwyn; Waller, Michael; Witherspoon, Zach								CSCCa and NSCA Joint Consensus Guidelines for Transition Periods: Safe Return to Training Following Inactivity								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	3			1	23		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000477			JUN 2019	2019	THE INCIDENCE OF INJURIES AND DEATHS RELATED TO EXERTIONAL HEAT ILLNESS (EHI), EXERTIONAL RHABDOMYOLYSIS (ER), AND CARDIORESPIRATORY FAILURE HAS INCREASED SIGNIFICANTLY IN COLLEGE ATHLETES IN RECENT YEARS. DATA INDICATE THAT THESE INJURIES AND DEATHS ARE MORE LIKELY TO OCCUR DURING PERIODS WHEN ATHLETES ARE TRANSITIONING FROM RELATIVE INACTIVITY TO REGULAR TRAINING. TO ADDRESS THIS PROBLEM, THE CSCCA AND NSCA HAVE CREATED CONSENSUS GUIDELINES WHICH RECOMMEND UPPER LIMITS ON THE VOLUME, INTENSITY, AND WORK: REST RATIO DURING TRANSITION PERIODS WHERE ATHLETES ARE MOST VULNERABLE. THE CONSENSUS GUIDELINES PROVIDE STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING COACHES WITH A CLEAR FRAMEWORK FOR SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PROGRAM DESIGN IN THE FIRST 2-4 WEEKS FOLLOWING PERIODS OF INACTIVITY OR RETURN FROM EHI OR ER. ADHERING TO THE CONSENSUS GUIDELINES, CONDUCTING PREPARTICIPATION MEDICAL EVALUATIONS, AND ESTABLISHING EMERGENCY ACTION PLANS WILL REDUCE THE INCIDENCE OF INJURIES AND DEATHS IN COLLEGE ATHLETES.		[Caterisano, Anthony; Snyder, Ben; Feigenbaum, Matt] Furman Univ, Greenville, SC 29613 USA; [Decker, Donald; Witherspoon, Zach] New Mexico State Univ, Las Cruces, NM 88003 USA; [Glass, Rob] Oklahoma State Univ, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [House, Paul] Oklahoma Christian Univ, Oklahoma City, OK USA; [Sharp, Carwyn] US Olymp Comm, Colorado Springs, CO USA; [Waller, Michael] Arkansas Tech Univ, Russellville, AR USA; [Caterisano, Anthony] Furman Univ, Greenville, SC 29613 USA								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480695500001	138	Article; Article		
J	Anthony, Chantel C.; Baghurst, Timothy M.								Strength and Conditioning Considerations for Racquetball Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	3			24	34		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000448			JUN 2019	2019	RACQUETBALL IS A COMPLEX SPORT THAT INVOLVES MULTIFACETED MOVEMENT PATTERNS AND MUSCULAR INVOLVEMENT. ANALYZING THE UNIQUE DEMANDS OF THE SPORT AND THE NEEDS OF THE ATHLETE PROVIDES STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING SPECIALISTS WITH THE REQUIREMENTS NEEDED TO OPTIMIZE PERFORMANCE AND PREVENT INJURY. TO DATE, THERE IS NO MODEL THAT IDENTIFIES NOR PROVIDES SPORT-SPECIFIC PROGRAMMING FOR RACQUETBALL. THEREFORE, THE AIMS OF THE ARTICLE ARE TO EVALUATE THE PHYSIOLOGICAL DEMANDS OF RACQUETBALL, IDENTIFY THE UNIQUE NEEDS OF RACQUETBALL ATHLETES, AND DEVELOP SPORT-SPECIFIC TRAINING METHODS THAT WILL MAXIMIZE PERFORMANCE AND REDUCE RISK OF INJURY.		[Anthony, Chantel C.] Oklahoma State Univ, Appl Neuromuscular Physiol Lab, Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Baghurst, Timothy M.] Oklahoma State Univ, Coll Educ Hlth & Aviat, Coaching Sci, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Anthony, Chantel C.] Oklahoma State Univ, Appl Neuromuscular Physiol Lab, Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480695500002	42	Article; Article		
J	Gibson, Neil; Bell, Paul; Clyne, Alan; Lobban, Greg; Aitken, Lisa; Gibbon, Katrina								Physical Preparation for Elite-Level Squash Players: Monitoring, Assessment, and Training Practices for the Strength and Conditioning Coach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	3			51	62		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000449			JUN 2019	2019	SQUASH IS AN INTERMITTENT, HIGH-INTENSITY RACQUET SPORT THAT IS PLAYED GLOBALLY; HOWEVER, LITTLE IS KNOWN ABOUT THE PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS OF MATCH PLAY AND TRAINING FOLLOWING RECENT RULE CHANGES. IN THIS ARTICLE, WE REVIEW THE CURRENT LITERATURE REGARDING THE DEMANDS OF COMPETITION, HOW TRAINING LOAD IS MONITORED, AND ASSESSMENT PROTOCOLS USED TO QUANTIFY PHYSICAL CAPACITY IN ELITE-LEVEL PLAYERS. USING DATA FROM THIS POPULATION, WE IDENTIFY APPROACHES TO THE MONITORING OF TRAINING LOAD AND PHYSICAL CAPACITY ALONG WITH IDENTIFYING ON-COURT PHYSICAL PREPARATION TRAINING OF USE TO THE STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING COACH.		[Gibson, Neil; Gibbon, Katrina] Heriot Watt Univ, Oriam Scotlands Sports Performance Ctr, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Bell, Paul; Clyne, Alan; Lobban, Greg; Aitken, Lisa; Gibbon, Katrina] Heriot Watt Univ, Oriam, Scottish Squash, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Gibson, Neil] Heriot Watt Univ, Oriam Scotlands Sports Performance Ctr, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480695500005	42	Article; Article		
J	Sorace, Paul; Ronai, Peter; Berry, Robert								Atrial Fibrillation and Exercise								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	3			110	117		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000439			JUN 2019	2019	ATRIAL FIBRILLATION (AF), A COMMON CARDIAC ARRHYTHMIA AND A LEADING CAUSE OF STROKE AND HEART FAILURE, CAN DECREASE EXERCISE TOLERANCE AND QUALITY OF LIFE. COMPREHENSIVE, INDIVIDUALIZED EXERCISE PROGRAMS ARE SAFE AND CAN REDUCE CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE RISKS AND ENHANCE PHYSICAL FITNESS AND QUALITY OF LIFE IN MEDICALLY CLEARED CLIENTS WITH AF.		[Sorace, Paul] Hackensack Univ, Med Ctr, Meridian Hlth Cardiac Rehabil Program, Hackensack, NJ USA; [Ronai, Peter] Sacred Heart Univ, Exercise Sci Dept, Fairfield, CT 06825 USA; [Berry, Robert] Henry Ford Hosp, Cardiac Rehabil, Prevent Cardiol, Detroit, MI 48202 USA; [Ronai, Peter] Sacred Heart Univ, Exercise Sci Dept, Fairfield, CT 06825 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480695500009	38	Article; Article		
J	Sorace, Paul; Ronai, Peter; Berry, Robert								Atrial Fibrillation and Exercise: Exercise Recommendations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	3			118	123		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000446			JUN 2019	2019	ATRIAL FIBRILLATION (AF) IS CHARACTERIZED BY A RAPID PULSE RATE AND AN IRREGULAR HEART RHYTHM. IT IS A MORE COMMON CARDIAC ARRHYTHMIA. AF MAY LACK SYMPTOMS, ALTHOUGH FATIGUE AND AN IMPAIRED EXERCISE ABILITY ARE COMMON SYMPTOMS. THIS COLUMN WILL DISCUSS EXERCISE TESTING AND TRAINING RECOMMENDATIONS AS WELL AS SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS.		[Ronai, Peter] Sacred Heart Univ, Coll Hlth Profess, Ctr Healthcare Educ, Fairfield, CT USA; [Berry, Robert] Henry Ford Hosp, Prevent Cardiol, Detroit, MI 48202 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480695500010	20	Article; Article		
J	Young, Warren; Talpey, Scott; Bartlett, Rogan; Lewis, Mitchell; Mundy, Stephanie; Smyth, Andrew; Welsh, Tim								Development of Muscle Mass: How Much Is Optimum for Performance?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	3			47	50		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000443			JUN 2019	2019	TRAINING FOR MUSCLE HYPERTROPHY CAN BE EXPECTED TO INDUCE SOME INCREASE IN TOTAL BODY MASS, AND THIS CAN HAVE POSITIVE OR NEGATIVE CONSEQUENCES FOR ATHLETIC PERFORMANCE. POSITIVE EFFECTS MAY BE INCREASED STRENGTH, INCREASED RESISTANCE TO BEING PUSHED ASIDE, AND GREATER MOMENTUM WHEN RUNNING, WHEREAS POSSIBLE NEGATIVE EFFECTS MAY BE REDUCED CAPACITY TO ACCELERATE, DECELERATE, CHANGE DIRECTION, AND JUMP. THESE POSSIBLE EFFECTS OF GAINING MUSCLE AND TOTAL BODY MASS SUGGEST THAT STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING COACHES SHOULD GIVE THOUGHTFUL CONSIDERATION TO THE AMOUNT OF HYPERTROPHY TRAINING PRESCRIBED THROUGHOUT AN ATHLETE'S DEVELOPMENT AND SHOULD BE DETERMINED BY THE SPECIFIC NEEDS OF THE ATHLETE.		[Young, Warren; Talpey, Scott; Bartlett, Rogan; Lewis, Mitchell; Mundy, Stephanie; Smyth, Andrew; Welsh, Tim] Federat Univ Australia, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Young, Warren] Federat Univ Australia, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, Ballarat, Vic, Australia								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480695500004	21	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Morales-Artacho, Antonio J.; Almeida, Filipa; Padial, Paulino; Bonitch-Gongora, Juan; de la Fuente, Blanca; Feriche, Belen								Force-Velocity Relationship in the Countermovement Jump Exercise Assessed by Different Measurement Methods								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			37	47		10.2478/hukin-2018-0085			JUN 2019	2019	This study aimed to compare force, velocity, and power output collected under different loads, as well as the force-velocity (F-V) relationship between three measurement methods. Thirteen male judokas were tested under four loading conditions (20, 40, 60, and 80 kg) in the countermovement jump (CMJ) exercise, while mechanical output data were collected by three measurement methods: the Samozino's method (SAM), a force platform (FP), and a linear velocity transducer (LVT). The variables of the linear F-V relationship (maximum force [F0], maximum velocity [V0], F-V slope, and maximum power [P0]) were determined. The results revealed that (1) the LVT overestimated the mechanical output as compared to the SAM and FP methods, especially under light loading conditions, (2) the SAM provided the lowest magnitude for all mechanical output, (3) the F-V relationships were highly linear either for the SAM (r = 0.99), FP (r = 0.97), and LVT (r = 0.96) methods, (4) the F-V slope obtained by the LVT differed with respect to the other methods due to a larger V0 (5.28 +/- 1.48 m.s(-1)) compared to the SAM (2.98 +/- 0.64 m.s(-1)) and FP (3.06 +/- 0.42 m.s(-1)), and (5) the methods were significantly correlated for F0 and P0, but not for V0 or F-V slope. These results only support the accuracy of the SAM and FP to determine the F-V relationship during the CMJ exercise. The very large correlations of the SAM and LVT methods with respect to the FP (presumed gold-standard) for the mean values of force, velocity and power support their concurrent validity for the assessment of mechanical output under individual loads.		[Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Morales-Artacho, Antonio J.; Almeida, Filipa; Padial, Paulino; Bonitch-Gongora, Juan; Feriche, Belen] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Sport Sci, Ctra Alfacar, Granada 18011, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, CIEDE, Concepcion, Chile; [de la Fuente, Blanca] Sierra Nevada Training Ctr, Spanish Sport Council, Granada, Spain; [Feriche, Belen] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Sport Sci, Ctra Alfacar, Granada 18011, Spain								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900004	35	Article; Article		
J	Tomko, Patrick M.; Laurent, C. Matthew; Fullenkamp, Adam M.; Voth, Nicholas R.; Young, Carmen A.								Mouth Rinsing Cabohydrates Serially does not Improve Repeated Sprint Time								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			133	142		10.2478/hukin-2018-0076			JUN 2019	2019	Sensing carbohydrates via the oral cavity benefits performance outcomes during brief high intensity bouts of exercise. However, the extent to which carbohydrates need to be present in the oral cavity to influence sprint performance is less understood. The purpose of this study was to determine if serial increases in carbohydrate rinse time across sprint sets attenuates increases in sprint time compared to no serial increases in carbohydrate rinse time across sprint sets. Fifteen sprint trained participants completed three repeated anaerobic sprint tests (RAST), 3 sets of 6 x 35-m sprints, under two different carbohydrate mouth rinsing (CMR) conditions; (1) rinsing for only 5 seconds (s), and (2) rinsing for 5 s, 10 s and 15 s (serial rinse). Prior to a RAST, participants provided perceived recovery status (PRS) and perceived feeling of arousal (FAS). Upon completion of each individual sprint, participants gave a rating of perceived exertion (RPE). A lactate sample was taken upon completion of each individual sprint set and after all 3 RASTs a session rating of perceived exertion (S-RPE) was measured. There were no significant differences in peak (p = 0.18) and average sprint time (p = 0.41). There were no significant differences in perceptual measures: RPE, PRS, FAS, S-RPE or for blood lactate concentration between CMR conditions. Overall, serial rinsing resulted in changes that were most likely trivial, but showed a 50% chance in perceiving a sprint session as less difficult. Rinsing carbohydrates in a serial manner between repeated sprint sets produces trivial changes of sprint speed and perceptual measures from sprint performance.		[Tomko, Patrick M.] Oklahoma State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Laurent, C. Matthew] Tarleton State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Sch Kinesiol, Stephenville, TX USA; [Fullenkamp, Adam M.; Voth, Nicholas R.; Young, Carmen A.] Bowling Green State Univ, Sch Human Movement Sport & Leisure Studies Exerci, Bowling Green, OH 43403 USA; [Tomko, Patrick M.] Oklahoma State Univ, Appl Neuromuscular Physiol, Colvin Ctr 191, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900011	42	Article; Article		
J	Monajati, Alireza; Larumbe-Zabala, Eneko; Goss-Sampson, Mark; Naclerio, Fernando								Surface Electromyography Analysis of Three Squat Exercises								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			73	+		10.2478/hukin-2018-0073			JUN 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to perform an electromyography comparison of three commonly used lower limb injury prevention exercises: a single-leg squat on a bench (SLSB), a double-leg squat (DLS) and a double-leg squat on a BOSU (R) balance trainer (DLSB). After determining the maximum isometric voluntary contraction of the hamstring and quadriceps, eight female athletes performed 3 repetitions of each exercise, while electromyography activity of the biceps femoris (BF), semitendinosus (ST), vastus lateralis (VL) and vastus medialis (VM) was monitored. Comparisons between exercises revealed higher activation in BF (descending phase: p = 0.016, d = 1.36; ascending phase: p = 0.046, d = 1.11), ST (descending phase: p = 0.04, d = 1.87; ascending phase: p = 0.04, d = 1.87), VL (ascending phase: p = 0.04, d = 1.17) and VM (descending phase: p = 0.05, d = 1.11; ascending phase: p = 0.021, d = 1.133) muscles for the SLSB compared to the DLSQ. Furthermore, higher muscular activation of the ST (ascending phase: p = 0.01, d = 1.51; descending phase: p = 0.09, d = 0.96) and VM (ascending phase: p = 0.065, d = 1.03; descending phase: p = 0.062, d = 1.05) during the SLSB with respect to the DLSB was observed. In conclusion, the SLSB elicits higher neuromuscular activation in both hamstring and quadriceps muscles compared to the other two analysed exercises. Additionally, the higher muscle activation of both medial muscles (ST and VM) during the SLSB suggests that single leg squatting exercises may enhance lower limb medial to lateral balance, and improve knee stability in the frontal plane.		[Monajati, Alireza] Univ Greenwich, Dept Life & Sports Sci, Avery Hill Campus Sparrows Farm, Etham SE9 2BT, England; [Larumbe-Zabala, Eneko] Texas Tech Univ, Hlth Sci Ctr, Clin Res Inst, Lubbock, TX 79430 USA; [Monajati, Alireza; Larumbe-Zabala, Eneko; Goss-Sampson, Mark; Naclerio, Fernando] Univ Greenwich, Dept Life & Sports Sci, London, Kent, England; [Naclerio, Fernando] Univ Greenwich, Dept Life & Sports Sci, Avery Hill Campus Sparrows Farm, Etham SE9 2BT, England								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900006	41	Article; Article		
J	Knechtle, Beat; de Sousa, Caio Victor; Simoes, Herbert Gustavo; Rosemann, Thomas; Nikolaidis, Pantelis Theodoros								Effects of the Performance Level and Race Distance on Pacing in Ultra-Triathlons								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			247	258		10.2478/hukin-2018-0079			JUN 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to examine the effects of the performance level and race distance on pacing in ultra-triathlons (Double, Triple, Quintuple and Deca), wherein pacing is defined as the relative time (%) spent in each discipline (swimming, cycling and running). All finishers (n = 3,622) of Double, Triple, Quintuple and Deca Iron ultratriathlons between 1985 and 2016 were analysed and classified into quartile groups (Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4) with Q1 being the fastest and Q4 the slowest. Performance of all non-finishers (n = 1,000) during the same period was also examined. Triple and Quintuple triathlons (24.4%) produced the highest rate of non-finishers, and Deca Iron ultra-triathlons produced the lowest rate (18.0%) (chi(2) = 12.1, p = 0.007, phi(C) = 0.05). For the relative swimming and cycling times (%), Deca triathletes (6.7 +/- 1.5% and 48.8 +/- 4.9%, respectively) proved the fastest and Double (9.2 +/- 1.6% and 49.6 +/- 3.6%) Iron ultra-triathletes were the slowest (p < 0.008) with Q4 being the fastest group (8.3 +/- 1.6% and 48.8 +/- 4.3%) and Q1 the slowest one (9.5 +/- 1.5% and 50.9 +/- 3.0%) (p < 0.001). In running, Double triathletes were relatively the fastest (41.2 +/- 4.0%) and Deca (44.5 +/- 5.4%) Iron ultra-triathletes the slowest (p < 0.001) with Q1 being the fastest (39.6 +/- 3.3%) and Q4 the slowest group (42.9 +/- 4.7%) (p < 0.001). Based on these findings, it was concluded that the fastest ultra-triathletes spent relatively more time swimming and cycling and less time running, highlighting the importance of the role of the latter discipline for the overall ultra-triathlon performance. Furthermore, coaches and ultra-triathletes should be aware of differences in pacing between Double, Triple, Quintuple and Deca Iron triathlons.		[Knechtle, Beat] Gesundheitszentrum St, St Gallen, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat; Rosemann, Thomas] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [de Sousa, Caio Victor; Simoes, Herbert Gustavo] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Grad Program Phys Educ, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Nikolaidis, Pantelis Theodoros] Exercise Physiol Lab, Nikaia, Greece; [Knechtle, Beat] Gesundheitszentrum St Gallen, Facharzt FMH Allgemeinmed, Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900021	31	Article; Article		
J	Tsoukos, Athanasios; Drikos, Sotirios; Brown, Lee E.; Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos; Veligekas, Panagiotis; Bogdanis, Gregory C.								Anthropometric and Motor Performance Variables are Decisive Factors for the Selection of Junior National Female Volleyball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			163	173		10.2478/hukin-2019-0012			JUN 2019	2019	This study examined whether anthropometric and fitness tests might successfully predict selection of young female volleyball players for a junior national team. Sixty four female players (age: 14.4 +/- 0.5 y, body height: 1.76 +/- 0.05 m, body mass: 63.9 +/- 6.4 kg) underwent a selection procedure for the junior national team. Anthropometric data and speed and power test results were obtained and players were graded for their performance in a volleyball tournament. Selected players differed from the non-qualified in body height (3.4%; p = 0.001), standing reach height (2.6%; p = 0.001), the sum of skinfolds (15.4%; p = 0.035), body mass index (BMI; 7.1%; p = 0.005) and spike jump and reach (SJR) (2.5%; p = 0.001). Selected players were classified in the 99.2 +/- 1.6 percentile in body height and in the 51.4 +/- 20.6 percentile in the BMI, which were significantly different from those of the non-qualified players (95.4 +/- 7.0 and 66.7 +/- 18.6, p = 0.02 and p = 0.004, respectively). Stepwise discriminant analysis yielded a discriminant function (p < 0.001, eta 2 = 0.78) that was highly loaded by height, SJR and the BMI (r = 0.79, r = 0.74 and r = -0.53, respectively). Cross validation results showed that selection was correctly predicted in 15 out of the 20 selected players (predictive accuracy: 75.0%) and in 35 out of the 44 non-qualified players (predictive accuracy: 79.5%). In conclusion, body height, the BMI and SJR height successfully discriminated between selected and non-qualified elite young female junior national team volleyball players. The equal vertical jump, sprint and agility of selected and non-qualified players, highlight the importance of body height and the BMI for selection of elite junior female volleyball players.		[Tsoukos, Athanasios; Drikos, Sotirios; Sotiropoulos, Konstantinos; Veligekas, Panagiotis; Bogdanis, Gregory C.] Univ Athens, Sch Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Athens, Greece; [Brown, Lee E.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Human Performance Lab, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Bogdanis, Gregory C.] 41 Ethnikis Antistasis St, Athens, Greece								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900014	36	Article; Article		
J	Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Mendes, Bruno; Teles Bredt, Sarah da Gloria; Praca, Gibson Moreira; Silverio, Andre; Carrico, Sandro; Duarte, Emanuel								Perceived Training Load, Muscle Soreness, Stress, Fatigue, and Sleep Quality in Professional Basketball: A Full Season Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			199	207		10.2478/hukin-2019-0002			JUN 2019	2019	This study aimed to compare the perceived training load (session-RPE) and wellness status (muscle soreness, stress, fatigue, and sleep quality) within and between regular (one-match) and congested (two matches) weeks. Fifteen professional basketball players from a European First league club participated in this study. Wellness status (Hooper's questionnaire) and perceived training loads (session-RPE) were measured for each training session and matches over a full season. Regular weeks presented moderately greater session-RPE than congested weeks (p = 0.201; d = 2.15, moderate effect). Both regular and congested weeks presented a decrease in perceived training load before matches, which was accompanied by improved wellness status on a match day. Congested weeks presented moderately lower sleep quality (p = 0.421; d = 1.320, moderate effect) and moderately greater fatigue (p = 0.468; d = 1.401, moderate effect) than regular weeks. Regular and congested weeks presented minimum differences for DOMS and stress. Lower wellness in congested weeks may be associated to an accumulative effect of training and match loads. Tapering phases before matches seem to play an important role for improving athletes' wellness and preventing overtraining.		[Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Inst Politecn Viana Castelo, Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Telecomun, Delegacao Covilha, Melgaco, Portugal; [Mendes, Bruno] Univ Lisbon, Fac Human Kinet, Lisbon, Portugal; [Teles Bredt, Sarah da Gloria; Praca, Gibson Moreira] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Silverio, Andre; Carrico, Sandro; Duarte, Emanuel] Benf LAB Sport Lisboa & Benf, Lisbon, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Complexo Desport & Lazer Melgaco Monte Prado, P-4960320 Melgaco, Portugal								71							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900017	38	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Andrew W.; Wong, Del P.								Sagittal and Frontal Plane Gait Initiation Kinetics in Healthy, Young Subjects								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			85	100		10.2478/hukin-2018-0087			JUN 2019	2019	The study purposes were to record the lower extremity sagittal and frontal joint moments and powers during gait initiation (GI); evaluate GI support moments in both planes; and analyze planar energy patterns in a group of 15 healthy, young adults. 3D motion and ground reaction force data were used to calculate support moments (SM) and joint moments and powers as well as center of mass (COM) kinematics. STEP1 had no visible SM. It appeared in STEP2 and, by STEP3, resembled that seen in steady- state gait. Joint moments demonstrated a similar development towards typical patterns over the three steps. Correlations of moment data between planes indicate that the frontal plane component of the SM acts to keep the COM centered. It is suggested that Winter's 1980 SM definition be extended to include both a support (sagittal) component and a centering (frontal) component. Energy was calculated for individual bursts of joint powers in both planes and each step had characteristic patterns in each plane, with patterns resembling steady- state gait appearing in the third step. Test-retest reliability (ICC range: 0.796 - 0.945) was high with CV values in the sagittal plane (36.6 - 37.5%) being less variable than in the frontal plane (39.0 - 82.0%). COM kinematics revealed that acceleration peaked in STEP2 (ICC range: 0.950 - 0.980, CV < 20.0%). Data supported hypotheses regarding the dominance of the frontal plane power in STEP1, with substantial power coming from hip flexors. As well, powers in the sagittal plane were generally of larger magnitude than in the frontal plane.		[Smith, Andrew W.] Samuel Merritt Univ, Mot Anal Res Ctr, 400 Hawthorne Ave,Suite 101, Oakland, CA 94609 USA; [Wong, Del P.] Titi Sport Technol, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Smith, Andrew W.] Samuel Merritt Univ, Mot Anal Res Ctr, 400 Hawthorne Ave,Suite 101, Oakland, CA 94609 USA								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900007	47	Article; Article		
J	Akulin, Vladimir M.; Carlier, Frederic; Solnik, Stanislaw; Latash, Mark L.								Sloppy, But Acceptable, Control of Biological Movement: Algorithm-Based Stabilization of Subspaces in Abundant Spaces								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			49	72		10.2478/hukin-2018-0086			JUN 2019	2019	In this paper, we develop an algorithm-based approach to the problem of stability of salient performance variables during motor actions. This problem is reformulated as stabilizing subspaces within high-dimensional spaces of elemental variables. Our main idea is that the central nervous system does not solve such problems precisely, but uses simple rules that achieve success with sufficiently high probability. Such rules can be applied even if the central nervous system has no knowledge of the mapping between small changes in elemental variables and changes in performance. We start with a rule "Act on the most nimble" (the AMN-rule), when changes in the local feedback-based loops occur for the most unstable variable first. This rule is implemented in a task-specific coordinate system that facilitates local control. Further, we develop and supplement the AMN-rule to improve the success rate. Predictions of implementation of such algorithms are compared with the results of experiments performed on the human hand with both visual and mechanical perturbations. We conclude that physical, including neural, processes associated with everyday motor actions can be adequately represented with a set of simple algorithms leading to sloppy, but satisfactory, solutions. Finally, we discuss implications of this scheme for motor learning and motor disorders.		[Akulin, Vladimir M.; Carlier, Frederic] CNRS, Lab Aim & Cotton, F-91405 Orsay, France; [Akulin, Vladimir M.] CNRS, Lab Jean Victor Poncelet, Moscow 119002, Russia; [Akulin, Vladimir M.] Inst Informat Transmiss Problems, Moscow 127994, Russia; [Solnik, Stanislaw] Univ Northern Georgia, Dahlonega, GA USA; [Solnik, Stanislaw] Univ Wroclaw, Sch Phys Educ, Wroclaw, Poland; [Latash, Mark L.] Penn State Univ, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [Latash, Mark L.] Moscow Inst Phys & Technol, Dolgoprudnyi 141700, Russia; [Latash, Mark L.] Penn State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Rec Hall 268N, University Pk, PA 16802 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900005	43	Article; Article		
J	Vanessa Bataller-Cervero, A.; Gutierrez, Hector; DeRenteria, Jacobo; Piedrafita, Eduardo; Marcen-Cinca, Noel; Valero-Campo, Carlos; Lapuente, Manuel; Berzosa, Cesar								Validity and Reliability of a 10 Hz GPS for Assessing Variable and Mean Running Speed								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			17	24		10.2478/hukin-2018-0084			JUN 2019	2019	Our purpose was to assess the 10 Hz Viper GPS devices' validity and reliability (STATSport) in both instantaneous and mean speed measuring in accelerations and decelerations in straight-line running conditions. Eight amateur team sport players participated in the study, performing firstly 21 x 40 m sprints at submaximal incremental speed, and secondly 21 x 40 m sprints, with the first stage consisting of submaximal incremental speed, and the second stage of subsequent submaximal decreasing speed. Criteria systems used to evaluate the GPS validity were a radar gun for instantaneous speed, and timing-gates for mean speed. Reliability was measured with two GPS devices carried by the same athlete, running 10 x (20 m + 20 m) sprints with a 180 degrees change of direction and a 10 s inter-set rest interval. Results showed an agreement between GPS devices and the criteria systems measuring instantaneous speed (r = 0.98; standardized mean bias (SMB) = -0.07; standard typical error (STE) = 0.22) and mean speed (r = 0.99; SMB = 0.38; STE = 0.17). The reliability study presented a nearly perfect correlation between devices, a trivial SMB and a small STE (r = 0.97; SMB = 0.04; STE = 0.23). 10 Hz GPS devices are an adequate solution to monitor straight-line running speed in acceleration and deceleration conditions, but we would like to draw attention to the small errors and bias detected, such as the speed overestimation compared with timing gates.		[Vanessa Bataller-Cervero, A.; Gutierrez, Hector; DeRenteria, Jacobo; Piedrafita, Eduardo; Marcen-Cinca, Noel; Valero-Campo, Carlos; Berzosa, Cesar] Univ San Jorge, Autov A23 Km 299, Zaragoza 50830, Spain; [Vanessa Bataller-Cervero, A.; Gutierrez, Hector; Piedrafita, Eduardo; Marcen-Cinca, Noel; Valero-Campo, Carlos; Berzosa, Cesar] Univ San Jorge, Hlth Sci Fac, ValorA Res Grp, Zaragoza, Spain; [Lapuente, Manuel] Complex Esportiu Futbol Salou, Salou, Spain; [Berzosa, Cesar] Univ San Jorge, Autov A23 Km 299, Zaragoza 50830, Spain								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900002	24	Article; Article		
J	dal Bello, Fabio; Brito, Ciro Jose; Amtmann, John; Miarka, Bianca								Ending MMA Combat, Specific Grappling Techniques According to the Type of the Outcome								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			271	280		10.2478/hukin-2018-0081			JUN 2019	2019	This study compared grappling motor actions of male mixed martial arts (MMA) athletes considering outcome types from Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) bouts. A validated protocol of technical-tactical analysis was utilized as in previous studies addressing MMA performance analysis, and Kruskall Wallis and U Mann-Whitney tests were applied to compare effects of types of outcome decisions (Split vs. Unanimous Decision vs. Knockout-KO/Technical-knockout-TKO vs. Submission). Unanimous Decision showed higher frequencies of takedowns attempted/round than KO/TKO and Submission outcomes (p <= 0.05; 1.9 +/- 1.9 vs. 1.3 +/- 1.4 vs. 1.0 +/- 1.1 attempts). Bouts with Split Decision demonstrated higher takedowns/round than bouts ended by Submission (p = 0.048; 0.4 +/- 0.7 vs. 0.2 +/- 0.6 attempts). TKO/KO showed lower values of sweeps/round (p = 0.008, 0.0 +/- 0.0 vs. 0.1 +/- 0.3 attempts) and takedowns attempted/round (p = 0.014, 1.3 +/- 1.4 vs. 2.0 +/- 1.6 attempts) than bouts ending by Split Decision. The Submission outcome showed a higher frequency of submissions attempted/round than KO/TKO and Unanimous Decision (p <= 0.041, 0.3 +/- 0.7 vs 0.2 +/- 0.5 vs 0.2 +/- 0.5). These results show a large specificity in the type of grappling attack/situation according to the strategy to end the combat. These results also show that the grappling strategy and tactics are variable depending on the strengths and weaknesses of the athletes, and can be used by coaches and athletes to develop specific training programs.		[dal Bello, Fabio] Univ Santo Tomas, Phys Act & Sports Sci Master Program, Santiago, Chile; [Brito, Ciro Jose; Miarka, Bianca] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Phys Educ Dept, Lab Physiol & Motor Anal Hlth & Performance, Minas Gerais, MG, Brazil; [Amtmann, John] Montana Tech Univ Montana, Safety Hlth & Ind Hyg Dept, Butte, MT USA; [Miarka, Bianca] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Fight Dept, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [dal Bello, Fabio] Univ Politecn Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Miarka, Bianca] Ave Eduardo Roberto Daher,567 Ctr, BR-06850040 Itapecerica Da Serra, SP, Brazil								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900023	41	Article; Article		
J	Inglis, Paul Richard; Doma, Kenji; Deakin, Glen Bede								The Incidence and Occurrence of Injuries to Junior Rugby League Players in a Tropical Environment								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			101	110		10.2478/hukin-2018-0075			JUN 2019	2019	This study investigated the effect of the environment, jersey color and ground conditions on injury rates in junior rugby-league players in a tropical environment. Injury, environment and ground condition data were collected during each game, over one season (n = 12 rounds). The study investigated three teams (n = 64): one under-16 team in striped jerseys and two under-14 teams in black and orange jerseys. The injury rates for the under-16 team (83.3/1000 hrs) were higher than for the under-14 teams in black (69.9/1000 hrs) and orange (59.9/1000 hrs) jerseys. In the under-16 team, a negative correlation (r = -0.66, p < 0.05) was found between players' injuries and heat index, while in the under-14 team in black jerseys, a positive correlation was observed (r = 0.90, p < 0.01), although in the under-14 team in orange, no significant correlation was found (r = 0.140, p > 0.05). In the under-14 team in black, a significant correlation (r = 0.80, p < 0.01) between players' injuries and the temperature was observed. However, no correlations were found with any other variables per group (p > 0.05) and injury rates were not different between the teams (p > 0.05). While ground conditions had no effect on injury rates, it appears that the heat acted as a protection against injury for teams with striped and orange jerseys. However, black jerseys may put players at an increased risk of injury during hot and humid day games.		[Inglis, Paul Richard; Deakin, Glen Bede] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Cairns, Australia; [Doma, Kenji] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, 1 James Cook Dr,Rehab Sci Bldg, Townsville, Qld 4811, Australia; [Doma, Kenji] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, 1 James Cook Dr,Rehab Sci Bldg, Townsville, Qld 4811, Australia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900008	22	Article; Article		
J	Artetxe-Gezuraga, Xabier; Maldonado-Martin, Sara; Freemye, Bret G.; Camara, Jesus								Gross Efficiency and the Relationship with Maximum Oxygen Uptake in Young Elite Cyclists During the Competitive Season								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			123	131		10.2478/hukin-2018-0089			JUN 2019	2019	This study assessed gross efficiency (GE) during a single competitive season and determined the relationship between GE and maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max) in young elite cyclists (n = 15, 20.1 +/- 1.4 yrs, 177.5 +/- 5.7 cm, 68.3 +/- 6.2 kg, 45.2 +/- 7.5 mm of six skinfolds) during a competitive season. Participants completed at two occasions (T1 = April; T2 = July), a progressive bike protocol (initial intensity = 100 W, 35 W increments every 3 min) until volitional exhaustion to assess VO2max and submaximal variables. A single capillary blood sample was drawn from the left earlobe immediately after completion of each exercise load to determine lactate thresholds. Cyclists' GE was calculated as ([work accomplished/energy expended] x 100). No significant differences were obtained in GE at any workload between T1 and T2 or in the mean GE between T1 (19.3%) and T2 (19.4%) testing (p = 0.93). No significant association was found between mean GE and VO2max at either T1 (r = -0.28, p = 0.30), or T2 (r = -0.27, p = 0.32). GE of young elite cyclists might not vary during the most important phase of the training season and GE was not related to VO2max. A lower accumulated volume and intensity of training of these cyclists may account for their lower GE in comparison to older professional cyclists and might not have been enough to foster higher increases of GE in cyclists with lower VO2max.		[Artetxe-Gezuraga, Xabier; Maldonado-Martin, Sara; Camara, Jesus] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport Phys Act & Sport Sect, Dept Phys Educ & Sport,Lab Performance Anal Sport, Vitoria 01007, Basque Country, Spain; [Artetxe-Gezuraga, Xabier; Maldonado-Martin, Sara; Camara, Jesus] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Sport Sect, Vitoria 01007, Basque Country, Spain; [Freemye, Bret G.] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Dept Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Maldonado-Martin, Sara] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport Phys Act & Sport Sect, Dept Phys Educ & Sport,Lab Performance Anal Sport, Vitoria 01007, Basque Country, Spain; [Maldonado-Martin, Sara] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Sport Sect, Vitoria 01007, Basque Country, Spain								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900010	39	Article; Article		
J	Dunican, Ian C.; Higgin, Charles C.; Murray, Kevin; Jones, Maddison J.; Dawson, Brian; Caldwell, John A.; Halson, Shona L.; Eastwood, Peter R.								Sleep Patterns and Alertness in an Elite Super Rugby Team During a Game Week								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			111	121		10.2478/hukin-2018-0088			JUN 2019	2019	Sleep is a vital component of preparation, performance and recovery for a Super Rugby game. The purpose of this study was to quantify sleep behaviours and alertness of professional rugby union players during training and a game. Thirty-six rugby union players from a Super Rugby team wore a wrist-activity device (Readiband (TM)) to measure sleep for 3 days before, 3 days after and on the night of an evening game. Players were separated into those selected to play the game (n = 23) and those who were not (n = 13). Alertness was assessed for all training and game times using bio-mathematical modelling. Alertness measures <= 90% were considered to reflect impaired reaction time. Those selected to play in the game progressively increased sleep duration over the nights prior to the game (by 92 min p <= 0.05) by delaying wake time. Players went to bed later after the game (02:20 +/- 114 min vs 22:57 +/- 60 min; p <= 0.001) which resulted in decreased sleep duration on game night compared to pre-game nights (296 +/- 179 min vs 459 +/- 78 min; p <= 0.05). Four players did not achieve any sleep on game night. Sleep duration appeared to be truncated by early morning training sessions (before 08:00) on the second and third mornings after the game. Alertness was similar to>90% for all training and game times for all players. In conclusion, in the days leading into a Super Rugby game, players delay morning time at wake and consequently increase sleep duration with post-game sleep reduced in some.		[Dunican, Ian C.; Eastwood, Peter R.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Huma Sci, Ctr Sleep Sci, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia; [Higgin, Charles C.] Western Force, Rugby Western Australia, Floreat, WA 6014, Australia; [Murray, Kevin] Univ Western Australia, Sch Populat & Global Hlth, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia; [Jones, Maddison J.; Dawson, Brian] Univ Western Australia, Sch Human Sci, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia; [Caldwell, John A.] Coastal Performance Consulting, Palm Beach Gardens, FL USA; [Halson, Shona L.] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Physiol, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Dunican, Ian C.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Huma Sci, Ctr Sleep Sci, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900009	33	Article; Article		
J	Wylegala, Adam; Sedziak-Marcinek, Bogumila; Pilch, Jan; Wylegala, Edward								Alteration of Blinking and Sex Differences During Physical Exercise Affect Tear Osmolarity								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				67	1			143	151		10.2478/hukin-2019-0004			JUN 2019	2019	Physical exertion leads to the rise in tear osmolarity. However, previous studies have been conducted mostly on males and did not consider sex differences and the possible alteration in blinking during physical exercise. Sixteen women and 18 men aged 25.09 +/- 1.70 were divided into equal groups with eyes open and shut. Participants performed 8-min medium-intensity exercise and 5-min intense exercise on a cycloergometer. Tear osmolarity (in mOsm/L) was evaluated before (T0), after medium-intensity (T1) and intense exercise (T2). The blinking rate was assessed in a group with eyes open. Tear brake up time was measured in T0 and T1. With tear osmolarity measuring 305.72 +/- 1.22 and 313.56 +/- 1.90 for men and women, respectively, we observed significant differences in T1. In T2, tear osmolarity in men was 303.3 +/- 1.28 vs. 310.87 +/- 1.36 in women. The blinking rate decreased from 14.24 +/- 2.54/min in T0 to 9.41 +/- 2.83/min in T1. There was a statistically significant change in tear osmolarity in both groups, that is, in the group with eyes shut from 300.53 +/- 1.37 in T0 to 308.06 +/- 1.55 in T1 to 304.88 +/- 1.54 in T2. In the group with eyes open, tear osmolarity increased from 300.29 +/- 1.37 in T0 to 310.76 +/- 1.55 in T1 and then dropped to 308.88 +/- 1.54 in T2. Tear brake up time measured in T0 was 14.7 +/- 1.43 vs. 13.53 +/- 1.48 in the open eyes condition. Due to physical exercise, short-term changes in tear osmolarity are partially caused by altered blinking. Sex differences in tear osmolarity in response to exertion may confirm the relationship between total body water and tear osmolarity.		[Wylegala, Adam; Sedziak-Marcinek, Bogumila; Wylegala, Edward] Railway Hosp, Ophthalmol Dept, Katowice Panewnicka 65, PL-40765 Katowice, Poland; [Wylegala, Adam; Sedziak-Marcinek, Bogumila; Wylegala, Edward] Zabrze Med Univ Silesia, Div Dent, Sch Med 2, Katowice Panewnicka 65, Katowice, Poland; [Pilch, Jan] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Chair Physiol Med Sci, Ul Mikolowska 72a, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Wylegala, Adam] Railway Hosp, Ophthalmol Dept, Katowice Panewnicka 65, PL-40765 Katowice, Poland; [Wylegala, Adam] Zabrze Med Univ Silesia, Div Dent, Sch Med 2, Katowice Panewnicka 65, Katowice, Poland								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000474738900012	28	Article; Article		
J	Rosevear, Ryan; Cassidy, Tania								The role of character in talent identification and development in New Zealand rugby union								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			406	418		10.1177/1747954119847172			JUN 2019	2019	The purpose of the study was to gain understanding of how character is understood in the New Zealand Rugby (NZR) ecology and how the Player Development Manager (PDM) in one Provincial Union (PU) negotiates, constructs and operationalizes interpretations of character within talent identification and development practices. The study design was informed by Bronfenbrenner's ecological systems model of development and the methodology was case study. The participant in the study was the PDM who worked for one provincial rugby union and NZR. Data was gained using; interviews, document analysis and observations. An iterative strategy was employed when adopting the deductive and inductive analysis. The study found that across the NZR ecology there was no universal definition of character, or set of criteria used to assess players' character. Within the NZR macrosystem there were formal policies that explicitly identified character as a value to be assessed. Yet, implicit understandings and assessment of character also existed. The PDM working in a microsystem constructed his understanding and assessment of character based on his experiences working with, and for, NZR (macrosystem) and the PU (exosystem) respectively, as well as drawing on his personal value set. The findings of this study are significant not only for rugby, in New Zealand and elsewhere, but they are relevant and topical for any selector, recruitment agent or coach who implicitly and explicitly (de)selects participants based on character.		[Rosevear, Ryan] Sport Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Cassidy, Tania] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, POB 56, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Cassidy, Tania] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, POB 56, Dunedin, New Zealand								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700014	58	Article; Article		
J	Contreira, Andressa Ribeiro; Andrade do Nascimento Junior, Jose Roberto; Pizzo, Gislaine Contessoto; Sitoe, Selso Ananias; Moreira, Caio Rosas; Jowett, Sophia; Fiorese, Lenamar								Psychometric properties of the Brazilian version of the Coach-Athlete Relationship Questionnaire for coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			285	293		10.1177/1747954119832715			JUN 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to assess the psychometric properties of the Brazilian version of the Coach-Athlete Relationship Questionnaire (CART-Q) for coaches. Subjects were 173 coaches (20-65 years old) from both sexes, from individual and team sports, ranging from amateur to national level; the instruments were the Coach version of CART-Q translated and adapted to Portuguese and the Athletic Satisfaction Scale adapted for coaches. Data analysis consisted of confirmatory factor analysis, internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha and composite reliability), concurrent validity (Spearman correlation), and temporal stability (intraclass correlation coefficient, ICC). Confirmatory factor analysis revealed a model with 11 items presenting adequate fit (chi(2)/df = 2.68; comparative fit index = 0.92; goodness-of-fit index = 0.91; Tucker-Lewis index = 0.90; root mean square error of approximation = 0.10) and the existence of a second-order factor (coach-athlete relationship). The scale has shown satisfactory internal consistency (composite reliability > 0.70 and alpha > 0.70). Concurrent validity assessment presented significant relationships (r > 0.40) with all coach satisfaction variables and temporal stability after 15 days was also adequate (0.65 < ICC < 0.88). It was concluded that the Brazilian version of the CART-Q Coach is adequate to assess coaches' perception regarding the relationship with their athletes.		[Contreira, Andressa Ribeiro; Pizzo, Gislaine Contessoto; Moreira, Caio Rosas; Fiorese, Lenamar] Univ Estadual Maringa, Dept Phys Educ, Colombo Ave 5790, BR-87020900 Maringa, PR, Brazil; [Andrade do Nascimento Junior, Jose Roberto] Univ Fed Vale do Sao Francisco, Dept Phys Educ, Petrolina, PE, Brazil; [Sitoe, Selso Ananias] Direccao Educ & Cultura Cidade Maputo, Maputo, Mozambique; [Jowett, Sophia] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Loughborough, Leics, England; [Contreira, Andressa Ribeiro] Univ Estadual Maringa, Dept Phys Educ, Colombo Ave 5790, BR-87020900 Maringa, PR, Brazil								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700002	36	Article; Article		
J	Hendricks, Sharief; Till, Kevin; Weaving, Dan; Powell, Alun; Kemp, Simon; Stokes, Keith; Jones, Ben								Training, match and non-rugby activities in elite male youth rugby union players in England								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			336	343		10.1177/1747954119829289			JUN 2019	2019	Rugby union is a late specialisation sport. As a consequence, youth players may still be engaged in other activities and sports throughout the year as they transition to rugby specialisation. Limited research exists quantifying rugby union training and matches as well as engagement in other activities and sports. Therefore, the aim of this study was to quantify and compare rugby union training, matches and other activities of elite youth U15 and U16 rugby union players at different stages of the season. Four-hundred and ninety-two youth (Under-15 and 16-year-old) rugby union players self-reported the frequency, intensity and duration of their participation in rugby union matches, rugby union training, gym, physical education and other sports during three different stages - September to December (Sept-Dec), January to April (Jan-Apr), May to August (May-Aug) - of the year. When all activities were combined, the frequency and volume of rugby matches and training was the greatest during the Sept-Dec stage. The frequency and volume of participating in other sports increased in the May-Aug stage of the season. Gym training frequency, intensity, and duration were stable across the year for both U15 and U16 players. Coaches and practitioners working with elite youth rugby union players should be aware that players are still participating in other activities outside of rugby training and competition. Coaches and practitioners should put structures in place to plan and monitor players' activities in order to optimise the positive outcomes of specialisation (e.g., expertise) while reducing the potential negative outcomes (e.g., injury, burnout).		[Hendricks, Sharief; Till, Kevin; Weaving, Dan; Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Till, Kevin; Jones, Ben] Yorkshire Carnegie Rugby Union Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin; Weaving, Dan; Jones, Ben] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Powell, Alun] England & Wales Cricket Board, London, England; [Kemp, Simon; Stokes, Keith] Rugby Football Union, Twickenham, England; [Stokes, Keith] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, England Performance Unit, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Ctr Human Performance, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Headingley Campus, Leeds LS6 3QS, W Yorkshire, England								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700007	31	Article; Article		
J	Berntsen, Hedda; Kristiansen, Elsa								Successful coach learning: Digital workbook informed by pedagogical principles								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			310	323		10.1177/1747954119835439			JUN 2019	2019	This study was based on the hypothesis that advances in cognitive science may be helpful for Coach Development Programs. We wondered: How can a learning tool such as a digital workbook that is informed by evidence-based pedagogical principles be helpful for coach development? After designing the learning material, based on the cognitive theory of multimedia learning, the digital workbook was used in a coach development program that aimed to improve coaches' need-supportiveness. Ten coaches at an elite sport school in Norway attended the program over a season, and afterwards they were asked whether the learning material had contributed to their knowledge of need-supportive skills. Thematic analysis of the interviews revealed visualization, awareness, and transfer to one's practice as the three main themes describing the educational value of the digital workbook. The material showed the coaches how need-support can be acted out in a sport-specific context. Additionally, the learning material resulted in increased engagement and awareness through coaches' reflections, which is an important step towards integrating new material to prior knowledge and create meaningful learning. Finally, the coaches highlighted transfer of the presented learning material to their practice experiences. We conclude that cognitive science may have useful implications for the design of effective learning materials for coach development programs.		[Berntsen, Hedda] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Coaching & Psychol, Oslo, Norway; [Kristiansen, Elsa] Univ South Eastern Norway, Sch Business, Drammen, Norway; [Berntsen, Hedda] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Coaching & Psychol, Oslo, Norway								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700004	81	Article; Article		
J	Milistetd, Michel; Salles, William das Neves; Backes, Ana Flavia; Mesquita, Isabel; do Nascimento, Juarez Vieira								Learner-centered teaching in a university-based coach education: First attempts through action research inquiry								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			294	309		10.1177/1747954119842957			JUN 2019	2019	A recent call for coach education highlights that the programs could become more learner-centered. Thus, the aim of this study is to provide an overview of the learner-centered teaching operationalization in a university-based coach education program. Using an action research approach, a Sports Pedagogy course was organized through five learner-centered teaching principles over one semester. Participants were a facilitator, a critical friend, and six students. Reflective journals, reflective conversations, and focus groups were used as data sources. Results showed that through different learning strategies based on collaboration and reflection, students were able to expand their understanding of sports coaching, and also to perceive themselves in the coach's role. Action research was a valuable approach to reflect as teachers, highlighting not only the teaching process but the need to understand and "change" (when possible) the learning environment. It is suggested that, to introduce the learner-centered teaching approach, a deep understanding of the institution's culture of learning is required to address meaningful material and support learners' engagement.		[Milistetd, Michel; Salles, William das Neves; Backes, Ana Flavia; do Nascimento, Juarez Vieira] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Campus Reitor Joao David Ferreira Lima, BR-88040970 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Mesquita, Isabel] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Milistetd, Michel] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Campus Reitor Joao David Ferreira Lima, BR-88040970 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700003	38	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Shaoliang; Lorenzo, Alberto; Woods, Carl T.; Leicht, Anthony S.; Gomez, Miguel-Angel								Evolution of game-play characteristics within-season for the National Basketball Association								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			355	362		10.1177/1747954119847171			JUN 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to explore the (dis)similarity of game-play characteristics throughout an in-season period within the National Basketball Association. Thirteen performance-related indicators of all 1230 games of the regular 2016-2017 season in the National Basketball Association were analysed. Non-metric multidimensional scaling was used to examine (dis)similarity of team profiles. The two-dimensional multivariate matrix showed that team profiles generally presented similarity, while the beginning and ending of the season (October and April) showed relative dissimilarity. Although each team presented unique paths throughout the in-season period, the dominant teams in the National Basketball Association presented similar game styles. In addition, the game-play of the teams evolved into effective interactions in terms of offence and defence as the competition progressed while presenting an increased trend in the number of three-point field-goals made (p < 0.000, small effect size (eta(2)) = 0.011) throughout the in-season period. The analytics performed in this study could be used practically to evaluate temporal changes of game-play characteristics in basketball as well as inform strategic periodization plans within season periods.		[Zhang, Shaoliang; Lorenzo, Alberto; Gomez, Miguel-Angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, Madrid, Spain; [Zhang, Shaoliang] Tsinghua Univ, Div Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Woods, Carl T.; Leicht, Anthony S.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Woods, Carl T.] Port Adelaide Football Club, Football Dept, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Zhang, Shaoliang] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, Madrid, Spain; [Zhang, Shaoliang] Calle Martin Fierro 7, Madrid 28040, Spain								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700009	41	Article; Article		
J	Alsasua, Roberto; Lapresa, Daniel; Arana, Javier; Teresa Anguera, M.								A log-linear analysis of efficiency in elite basketball applied to observational methodology								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			363	371		10.1177/1747954119837819			JUN 2019	2019	Although the full potential of observational methodology is realized through diachronic analyses, synchronic analyses can be used to investigate associations between categorical variables. Log-linear modeling is an appropriate method for investigating associations between three or more dimensions using multidimensional contingency tables. We provide a practical example of how we used log-linear analysis to study efficiency in a men's basketball competition played by Spain's top teams using a model containing three dimensions (and their respective categories): position of last pass before a shot, position of shot, and result of shot. The best-fit and most parsimonious model (i.e., the model that provided the best explanation of the observed frequencies in the contingency table and that contained the fewest effects) was a conditional independence model in which last pass position and shot position were associated independently of the categories in the shot result dimension and the interaction between shot position and shot result was not affected by the categories in the last pass dimension. Estimation and subsequent interpretation of the significant parameters in the selected model showed how log-linear modeling can provide basketball coaches with practical insights within an observational methodology study.		[Alsasua, Roberto] Int Univ La Rioja, Dept Educ, La Rioja, Spain; [Lapresa, Daniel; Arana, Javier] Univ La Rioja, Dept Educ Sci, La Rioja, Unir, Spain; [Teresa Anguera, M.] Univ Barcelona, Inst Neurosci, Fac Psychol, Barcelona, Spain; [Lapresa, Daniel] Univ La Rioja, Dept Educ Sci, Edificio Vives,C Luis de Ulloa S-N, Logrono 26004, La Rioja, Spain								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700010	56	Article; Article		
J	Bravo, Gonzalo A.; Won, Doyeon; Chiu, Weisheng								Psychological contract, job satisfaction, commitment, and turnover intention: Exploring the moderating role of psychological contract breach in National Collegiate Athletic Association coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			273	284		10.1177/1747954119848420			JUN 2019	2019	This study examined the relationship between psychological contract and three work attitudes, job satisfaction, affective commitment, and turnover intention in a sample of National Collegiate Athletic Association coaches. This study also explored the moderating role of the psychological contract by examining coaches' perceptions of the intentional and unintentional breach. A total of 383 coaches responded to the survey that included items in the transactional and relational psychological contract, job satisfaction, affective commitment, and turnover intention. In addition, the sample was split into two groups, intentional breach and unintentional breach based on their responses to a single question regarding the perceived breach status. Results revealed that the transactional contract had a positive influence on job satisfaction and a negative influence on affective commitment. On the other hand, the relational contract had positive influences on both job satisfaction and affective commitment. Job satisfaction had a positive influence on affective commitment, which negatively led to turnover intention, while affective commitment had no significant influence on turnover intention. A multi-group analysis was conducted to test whether the psychological contract breach moderated the paths in the hypothesized model. The paths from transactional contract to satisfaction and commitment as well as from satisfaction to turnover intention were moderated by the psychological contract breach. The transactional contract-job satisfaction relationship was meaningful for the unintentional breach group, while the transactional contract-affective commitment relationship was stronger with the intentional breach group. The job satisfaction-turnover intention relationship was stronger with the intentional breach group than with the unintentional breach group.		[Bravo, Gonzalo A.] West Virginia Univ, Coll Phys Act & Sport Sci, 375 Birch St, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [Won, Doyeon] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Dept Kinesiol, Corpus Christi, TX USA; [Chiu, Weisheng] Open Univ Hong Kong, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Bravo, Gonzalo A.] West Virginia Univ, Coll Phys Act & Sport Sci, 375 Birch St, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA								30							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700001	70	Article; Article		
J	van Duijn, Tina; Thomas, Simon; Masters, Rich S. W.								Chipping in on the role of conscious processing during children's motor learning by analogy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	3			383	392		10.1177/1747954119841162			JUN 2019	2019	The capacity for storing and manipulating information (a function of working memory) is not fully developed until adulthood, so children are not always able to process explicit instructions when learning a new skill. A teaching method that may solve this problem is analogy learning, which compares the to-be-learned skill with a well-known concept by way of a single metaphorical instruction. In adults, analogy learning has been shown to lead to lower load on working memory by reducing the need for conscious processing; however, the effects are unclear in children. If analogy instructions work similarly in children, the propensity to consciously control movements may affect how well children learn by analogy. It is in the interest of coaches and teachers to determine whether analogy instructions can be used to reduce conscious processing in children, and whether propensity for conscious control of movements (movement specific reinvestment) predicts benefits from analogy learning. Thirteen-year-old golf novices (n = 44) were pre-tested and post-tested after practicing a golf-chipping task using explicit rules. One week later, an analogy for learning the golf chip was introduced, and an identical set of post-tests was repeated. Propensity for conscious control/reinvestment predicted improvement in accuracy after the analogy was introduced. Children's motor learning by analogy may be affected by their propensity for conscious control of movements, which suggests that coaches should adapt instructions to individual differences between learners.		[van Duijn, Tina; Masters, Rich S. W.] Univ Waikato, Fac Hlth Sport & Human Performance, Gate 4 Hillcrest Rd, Hamilton 3216, Waikato, New Zealand; [Thomas, Simon] St Peters Sch, Cambridge, New Zealand; [van Duijn, Tina] Univ Waikato, Fac Hlth Sport & Human Performance, Gate 4 Hillcrest Rd, Hamilton 3216, Waikato, New Zealand								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000473502700012	62	Article; Article		
J	Kitamura, Tetsuro; Kido, Akira; Ishida, Yukako; Kobayashi, Yasuyo; Tsukamoto, Shinji; Tanaka, Yasuhito								Muscle Activity Pattern with A Shifted Center of Pressure during the Squat Exercise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			248	252					JUN 2019	2019	The squat exercise is a fundamental movement in athletic training and rehabilitation. In this study, we measured muscle activities in a normal squat posture (NSP) and a squat posture with the center of foot pressure (COP) intentionally shifted forward as far as possible (FSP). Ten healthy men performed double-limb squats, adopting the NSP and FSP, with three knee flexion angles (30, 60, and 90 degrees). The muscle activities of the vastus medialis (VM), semitendinosus (ST), tibialis anterior (TA), and gastrocnemius muscle lateral head (GL) were measured using surface electromyography, and activity patterns were analyzed. Compared to that for the NSP, the COP was significantly shifted forward in the FSP by at least 30% of the foot length for all knee flexion angles (p < 0.05). At all knee flexion angles, VM muscle activity significantly decreased, while GL muscle activity increased, in the FSP compared to that for the NSP (p < 0.05). In addition, ST muscle activity increased significantly in the FSP compared to that for the NSP at knee flexion angles of 30 and 60 degrees (p < 0.05). TA muscle activity significantly decreased in the FSP compared to that for the NSP at only 90 degrees of knee flexion (p < 0.05). These results demonstrate that muscle activity patterns vary significantly according to squat posture. Thus, the active control of the COP position during the squat can be a new training approach in targeting specific muscle groups.		[Kitamura, Tetsuro; Tanaka, Yasuhito] Nara Med Univ, Dept Orthoped Surg, Nara, Japan; [Kitamura, Tetsuro; Kido, Akira; Ishida, Yukako; Kobayashi, Yasuyo; Tsukamoto, Shinji] Nara Med Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, Nara, Japan; [Kido, Akira] Nara Med Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, Nara, Japan								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900008	26	Article; Article		
J	Sarabon, Nejc; Kozinc, Ziga; Babic, Jan; Markovic, Goran								Effect of Rowing Ergometer Compliance on Biomechanical and Physiological Indicators during Simulated 2,000-metre Race								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			264	270					JUN 2019	2019	This study compared biomechanical characteristics and physiological responses during rowing on three devices: (i) stable ergometer (STE), (ii) transversally compliant ergometer (TCE) and (iii) frontally compliant ergometer (FCE). Eleven young competitive rowers completed a 2000 meter simulated race under each of the ergometer conditions in a randomized order. Stroke rate, average force, power output, velocity and amplitude of the handle and stretcher or seat, heart rate and blood lactate were measured at 500 m intervals. Force and power at the stretcher were significantly lower (p < 0.03) for TCE, while stroke rate and velocities of the handle and the seat were higher (p < 0.01). No significant differences were observed between STE and FCE in biomechanical parameters. The lowest rowing performance was observed in FCE (p = 0.007), and was accompanied with the highest average heart rate (p = 0.031). Our findings indicate that in TCE, rowers modified their technique, but were able to maintain physiological strain and performance. In contrast, FCE had no effect on rowing biomechanics, but decreased rowing performance and increased physiological strain. It seems plausible that transversal, but not frontal compliance, elicited a biomechanical technique that might reduce the discrepancy between a rowing ergometer and on-water rowing.		[Sarabon, Nejc; Kozinc, Ziga] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Kinesiol & Physiotherapy, Koper, Slovenia; [Sarabon, Nejc] S2P Sci Practice Ltd, Lab Motor Control & Motor Behav, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Kozinc, Ziga] Univ Primorska, Andrei Marusic Inst, Koper, Slovenia; [Babic, Jan] Jozef Stefan Inst, Dept Automat Biocybernet & Robot, Lab Neuromech & Biorobot, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Markovic, Goran] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Zagreb, Croatia; [Markovic, Goran] Motus Melior Ltd, Res Unit, Zagreb, Croatia; [Sarabon, Nejc] Univ Primorska, Fac Hlth Sci, Polje 42, SI-6310 Izola, Slovenia								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900010	28	Article; Article		
J	Stevanovic, Vuk B.; Jelic, Milan B.; Milanovic, Sladjan D.; Filipovic, Sasa R.; Mikic, Mladen J.; Stojanovic, Marko D. M.								Sport-Specific Warm-Up Attenuates Static Stretching-Induced Negative Effects on Vertical Jump But Not Neuromuscular Excitability in Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			282	289					JUN 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to examine the acute effects of static stretching (SS) and dynamic stretching (DS), alone and in combination with specific basketball warm-up (SBWU), on the neuromuscular excitability and vertical jump height in basketball players. Twelve healthy young male basketball players participated in the study (18 +/- 0.42 years; 17.4 - 18.6 age range; 188 +/- 9 cm; 76.5 +/- 9 kg). All participants completed two different stretching treatments (static and dynamic), performed on different days at least seven days apart, in the same period of training microcycle, in a counterbalanced order. Each session consisted of a self-paced jogging warm-up, followed by a 10-minute testing period (T0), which involved eliciting H reflex and M waves, followed by three trials of a vertical jump test. Participants then performed one of the treatment protocols. After another test (T1), participants conducted 8-minute specific basketball warm-up and then one more test (T2). Combined 3 (time) x 2 (stretching protocol) analysis of variance with repeated measures on both factors revealed that SS significantly decreased spinal excitability (H/M ratio) (p = 0.015, d = -0.38, percentage of change = -20.55%) and vertical jump height (p = 0.007, d = -1.91, percentage of change = -2.6%), but after SBWU, vertical jump height increased (p = 0.006, d = 1.13, percentage of change = 3.01%), while H/M ratio continued decreasing (p = 0.019, d = -0.45, percentage of change = -30.23%). Acute effects of DS, alone and in combination with SBWU were not significant. It seems that SBWU attenuates negative acute effects of SS on vertical jump performance in young basketball players, while DS appears to cause no significant acute effect for this population.		[Stevanovic, Vuk B.; Jelic, Milan B.; Milanovic, Sladjan D.; Filipovic, Sasa R.] Univ Belgrade, Inst Med Res, Belgrade, Serbia; [Mikic, Mladen J.; Stojanovic, Marko D. M.] Univ Novi Sad, Adv Rehab & Conditioning Lab, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Stojanovic, Marko D. M.] Univ Novi Sad, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Novi Sad, Serbia								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900012	36	Article; Article		
J	Junker, Daniel; Stoeggl, Thomas								The Training Effects of Foam Rolling on Core Strength Endurance, Balance, Muscle Performance and Range of Motion: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			229	238					JUN 2019	2019	Self myofascial therapy via foam roller is a common technique used by many athletes and patients to aid recovery, improve range of motion (ROM) and prevent injury. Further, it is suggested that foam rolling improves core stability. However, research about the training effects of foam rolling on measures of core "strength endurance", muscle performance, balance and flexibility is limited. Forty recreationally active females and males (age: 18-48 yrs) were randomly assigned to a foam roll (FOAM, n = 14), a core stabilization (CORE; n = 12) and a control group (CG, n = 12). FOAM massaged their lower leg muscles (5 exercises) with the foam roll 2 times per week for 8 weeks while CORE was assigned to core stability training including 5 exercises. CG underwent no intervention. Applied tests for outcome measurements were the Bourban trunk muscle strength test (TMS), standing long jump (SLJ), single leg triple hop for distance (SLTH) test, Y-Balance test and stand and reach test. There was an interaction effect (time x treatment) for the dorsal TMS (p = 0.043), demonstrating greater improvements in CORE compared with FOAM and CG with no difference between FOAM and CG. For the stand and reach test a main effect for time (p < 0.001) and time x treatment interaction (p = 0.005) were found, indicating an increase in ROM in FOAM compared with CORE and CG with no difference between the latter. No significant effects were found for balance and muscle performance. An 8-week training with the foam roll is effective in increasing ROM in the stand and reach test without concomitant decreases in core "strength endurance", muscle performance and balance parameters. The core stabilization training was sufficient to improve performance in dorsal TMS test.		[Junker, Daniel; Stoeggl, Thomas] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Salzburg, Austria; [Junker, Daniel] Therapie & Training, Telfes, Austria; [Stoeggl, Thomas] Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Schlossallee 49, A-5400 Hallein Rif, Austria								74							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900006	45	Article; Article		
J	Morrison, Jaime D.; Quinn, Karlee; MacDonald, Luke A.; Billaut, Francois; Minahan, Clare								Repeated Treadmill Sprints Impair Cognitive Performance in Amateur Team-Sport Athletes When Performed in Normobaric Hypoxia								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			369	375					JUN 2019	2019	This study determined if a single bout of repeated-sprint running under hypoxic (RSH) conditions was associated with impaired cognitive function when compared with repeated-sprint running under normoxic (RSN) conditions. Eleven amateur team-sport athletes performed a repeated-sprint running protocol (4 sets of 4, 4-s all-out sprints; i.e., RSR444) under both conditions (14.5% and 20.9% O-2) on a non-motorized treadmill. Changes in SpO2, prefrontal cortex total haemoglobin (Delta[THb]), oxyhaemoglobin (Delta[O(2)Hb]), deoxyhaemoglobin (Delta[HHb]) and cognitive function (detection task: DET; identification task: IDN; one card learning task: OCL; performed pre and 20 min post RSR444) were examined. During RSH, SpO2 was lower following each set (p <= 0.05), while [HHb] was higher after each set (p <= 0.05) compared with RSN. In addition, while there was no effect of condition on DET (p = 0.20) or IDN (p = 0.14), OCL accuracy was lower after, compared with before, RSH (p=0.04), but not RSN (p = 0.52). A significant relationship was observed between Delta[HHB] and Delta OCL accuracy (r = -0.68, p = 0.01). Performance of a single bout of RSH with 14.5% O-2 resulted in impaired cognitive function in amateur team-sport athletes. Coaches should be mindful of timing of RSH prescription with regard to other training sessions that challenge speed and movement accuracy.		[Morrison, Jaime D.; Quinn, Karlee; MacDonald, Luke A.; Minahan, Clare] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Griffith Sports Physiol & Performance, Parklands Dr, Gold Coast, Qld 4215, Australia; [Quinn, Karlee; MacDonald, Luke A.] Queensland Acad Sport, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Billaut, Francois] Univ Laval, Dept Kinesiol, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Morrison, Jaime D.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Griffith Sports Physiol & Performance, Parklands Dr, Gold Coast, Qld 4215, Australia								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900022	37	Article; Article		
J	Zinke, Fridolin; Gebel, Arnd; Granacher, Urs; Prieske, Olaf								Acute Effects of Short-Term Local Tendon Vibration on Plantar Flexor Torque, Muscle Contractile Properties, Neuromuscular and Brain Activity in Young Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			327	336					JUN 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to examine the acute effects of short-term Achilles tendon vibration on plantar flexor torque, twitch contractile properties as well as muscle and cortical activity in young athletes. Eleven female elite soccer players aged 15.6 +/- 0.5 years participated in this study. Three different conditions were applied in randomized order: Achilles tendon vibration (80 Hz) for 30 and 300 s, and a passive control condition (300 s). Tests at baseline and following conditions included the assessment of peak plantar flexor torque during maximum voluntary contraction, electrically evoked muscle twitches (e.g., potentiated twitch peak torque [PT]), and electromyographic (EMG) activity of the plantar flexors. Additionally, electroencephalographic (EEG) activity of the primary motor and somatosensory cortex were assessed during a submaximal dynamic concentric-eccentric plantar flexion exercise using an elastic rubber band. Large-sized main effects of condition were found for EEG absolute alpha-1 and beta-1 band power (p <= 0.011; 1.5 <= d <= 2.6). Post-hoc tests indicated that alpha-1 power was significantly lower at 30 and 300 s (p = 0.009; d = 0.8) and beta-1 power significantly lower at 300 s (p < 0.001; d = 0.2) compared to control condition. No significant effect of condition was found for peak plantar flexor torque, electrical evoked muscle twitches, and EMG activity. In conclusion, short-term local Achilles tendon vibration induced lower brain activity (i.e., alpha-1 and beta-1 band power) but did not affect lower limb peak torque, twitch contractile properties, and muscle activity. Lower brain activity following short-term local Achilles tendon vibration may indicate improved cortical function during a submaximal dynamic exercise in female young soccer players.		[Zinke, Fridolin; Gebel, Arnd; Granacher, Urs; Prieske, Olaf] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Res Focus Cognit Sci, Neuen Palais 10, D-14469 Potsdam, Germany; [Prieske, Olaf] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Res Focus Cognit Sci, Neuen Palais 10, D-14469 Potsdam, Germany								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900017	46	Article; Article		
J	Akiyama, Kei; Sasaki, Takaya; Mashiko, Masahiro								Elite Male Lacrosse Players' Match Activity Profile								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			290	294					JUN 2019	2019	Match demands in international men's lacrosse have yet to be explored. Therefore, this investigation quantified positional match demands of international men's lacrosse. This study quantified activity profiles of 50 lacrosse players [attack (AT): 11, midfield (MD): 22, defense (DF): 17] on Japan's national team, using a global positioning system (GPS), players' acceleration, and a heart rate (HR) apparatus to investigate their movement and physiological load. The study revealed that in thirteen international matches, distance, walk distance, jog distance, low-intensity acceleration, and low-intensity deceleration for the AT and DF groups was significantly greater than for the MD group, but the MD group's average speed and sprint distance were the highest. Multiple comparison tests showed that measurements for the AT and DF groups were significantly greater than the MD group for distance, low-intensity acceleration, medium-intensity decelerations, and low-intensity deceleration. This data can become the physical data for helping coaches with strength and conditioning training at the international level. For MD players, anaerobic power and load condition (long rest, high intensity) should be emphasized. In addition, coaches can decide on tactics and a running-quantity target for the next game by acquiring continuous activity data.		[Akiyama, Kei; Sasaki, Takaya] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Res Inst Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Akiyama, Kei] Waseda Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Mashiko, Masahiro] Tokyo Univ Agr, Tokyo, Japan; [Akiyama, Kei] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Res Inst Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Akiyama, Kei] Waseda Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Saitama, Japan								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900013	28	Article; Article		
J	Figueiredo, Caique; Antunes, Barbara M.; Giacon, Thais R.; Vanderlei, Luiz C. M.; Campos, Eduardo Z.; Peres, Fernando P.; Clark, Nicolas W.; Panissa, Valeria L. G.; Lira, Fabio S.								Influence of Acute and Chronic High-Intensity Intermittent Aerobic Plus Strength Exercise on BDNF, Lipid and Autonomic Parameters								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			359	368					JUN 2019	2019	The purpose of the present study is two-fold. First, we evaluated whether 8-weeks of combined training (high-intensity intermittent plus strength training) may change brain derived neurotropic factor (BDNF) and lipid parameters (triacylglycerol, HDL-c and non-HDL) in a fasted state. Second, we investigated the effect of an acute session of high-intensity intermittent exercise followed by strength training on systemic BDNF and lipid parameters pre- and post 8-weeks of training. Twenty-one healthy and physically active men were divided into two groups: high-intensity intermittent exercise combined with strength training (HSG; n = 11) and control (CG; n = 10). The HSG exercised for one minute at 100% of speedVO(2)max (sVO(2)max) interspersed with one minute of passive recovery followed by strength training (8 exercises with 8-12 repetition maximum loads) for 8-weeks. Heart rate variability, blood pressure, lipid profile, and BDNF concentrations were measured in the fasted state pre- and post-exercise and before and after the 8-week training period. After 8-weeks of exercise training, there was an increase in spectral high frequency component (ms(2)) and RR interval (p < 0.05), a decreased spectral low frequency component (nu) and heart rate values (p < 0.05), an increase in HDL-c (p < 0.001), and lower BDNF concentrations (p < 0.001). These results suggest that 8-weeks of high-intensity intermittent exercise combined with strength exercise is an effective protective cardio-metabolic strategy capable of increasing HDL-c and BDNF concentrations after an acute exercise session. In the long-term, the modulation on BDNF and HDL-c concentrations may be a determining factor for protection against neurological and cardiovascular diseases.		[Figueiredo, Caique; Antunes, Barbara M.; Lira, Fabio S.] Univ Estadual Paulista UNESP, Exercise & Immunometab Res Grp, Dept Phys Educ, Rua Roberto Simonsen 305, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil; [Giacon, Thais R.; Vanderlei, Luiz C. M.] Univ Estadual Paulista UNESP, Dept Physioterapy, Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil; [Clark, Nicolas W.] Univ Cent Florida, Inst Exercise Physiol & Wellness, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Campos, Eduardo Z.] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Dept Phys Educ, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Peres, Fernando P.] Univ Oeste Paulista, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Panissa, Valeria L. G.] Univ Sao Paulo, Dept Sport, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lira, Fabio S.] Univ Estadual Paulista UNESP, Exercise & Immunometab Res Grp, Dept Phys Educ, Rua Roberto Simonsen 305, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900021	40	Article; Article		
J	Stoop, Rahel; Hohenauer, Erich; Vetsch, Thomas; Deliens, Tom; Clijsen, Ron								Acute Injuries in Male Elite and Amateur Mountain Bikers: Results of a Survey								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	2			207	212					JUN 2019	2019	Together with the growing popularity of mountain biking, the number of riders at risk for an acute injury has increased. A cross-sectional observational study was performed to describe the prevalence of acute injuries among elite and amateur riders and to determine predictive factors leading to a severe injury. A retrospective questionnaire was created comprising questions aiming on demographics, training volume, injury events and wearing of protective gear items. The survey was conducted during the Swiss Epic Mountain Bike Event in 2017. Complete data sets of male mountain bikers were used to determine prevalence. To evaluate injury related factors, only data sets reporting one or more injuries were included in the final analysis. Ninety-nine questionnaires were included to calculate the injury prevalence of 74% for elites and 69% for amateurs (p = 0.607). For the analysis of injury related factors 56 questionnaires were processed. Elites were significantly younger (p = 0.004) and had a significantly higher exposure time per year as amateurs (p < 0.001). The groups did not differ in number of injuries (p = 0.437) and number of severe injuries (p = 0.225). No predictive factors for a severe injury event were found. Both groups wore an equal amount of protective gear items (p = 0.846). A significant medium, respectively small correlation was found in both groups for mean hours of training per week and number of races per year (elites: r = 0.597, p = 0.023; amateurs: r = 0.428, p = 0.005). An equal prevalence of acute injuries was found in elite and amateur mountain bikers. Elites are at higher risk for an injury event due to their exposure time but do not suffer more or more severe injuries than amateurs.		[Stoop, Rahel; Hohenauer, Erich; Vetsch, Thomas; Clijsen, Ron] Univ Appl Sci & Arts Southern Switzerland, Dept Business Econ Hlth & Social Care, Rehabil Res Lab, Landquart, Switzerland; [Stoop, Rahel; Hohenauer, Erich; Clijsen, Ron] Int Univ Appl Sci THIM, Landquart, Switzerland; [Hohenauer, Erich; Deliens, Tom; Clijsen, Ron] Vrije Univ Brussel, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Brussels, Belgium; [Stoop, Rahel] Univ Appl Sci & Arts Southern Switzerland, Dept Business Econ Hlth & Social Care, Rehabil Res Lab, Landquart, Switzerland; [Stoop, Rahel] Int Univ Appl Sci THIM, Landquart, Switzerland								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000478791900003	21	Article; Article		
J	Lopez-Plaza, Daniel; Manonelles, Pedro; Angel Lopez-Minarro, Pedro; Maria Muyor, Jose; Alacid, Fernando								A longitudinal analysis of morphological characteristics and body proportionality in young elite sprint paddlers								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	4			479	486		10.1080/00913847.2019.1623997			OCT 2 2019	2019	Introduction: There are certain anthropometric attributes common to most high-level paddlers and among the determinants for optimal performance consecution in senior categories. Objective: The present investigation aimed to determine the evolution of morphological characteristics of elite paddlers during adolescence and to compare them with the values exhibited by Olympic competitors. Methods: In a longitudinal study, thirteen young elite paddlers (seven boys and six girls) completed a battery of anthropometric tests (heights, weight, girths, lengths, and sum of skinfolds) and on-water performance assessments (200 and 500 m) during three consecutive years. Results: Body mass and upper body sizes significantly change over the years (p < .05), especially in boys. Both male and female paddlers presented significant differences and large effect sizes in muscle mass and skin mass values (eta(2)(p) > .64) whereas bone mass and fat mass remained stable from the 1st to the 3rd year. Proportionality analysis revealed girths and breadths differences in arm and chest variables as well as large effect sizes in biacromial breadth among all years (eta(2)(p) > .62; p < .05), particularly in boys. Similarly, significant improvements in 200-m performance times were observed for both sexes. Conclusions: The findings of the current investigation might suggest a tendency towards a leaner and more robust morphological profile of elite paddlers in the transition from young to senior categories. In addition, the presence of superior relative body dimensions from young categories seems to be paramount in the evolution to later successful paddling.		[Lopez-Plaza, Daniel; Manonelles, Pedro] Catholic Univ San Antonio, Sport Med Chair, Murcia, Spain; [Angel Lopez-Minarro, Pedro] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Educ, Murcia, Spain; [Maria Muyor, Jose] Univ Almeria, Hlth Res Ctr, Lab Kinesiol Biomech & Ergon KIBIOMER, Fac Educ Sci Nursing & Physiotherapy, Almeria, Spain; [Alacid, Fernando] Univ Almeria, Hlth Res Ctr, Fac Educ Sci, Almeria, Spain; [Alacid, Fernando] Univ Almeria, Carretera Sacramento S-N, La Canada De San Urbano 04120, Almeria, Spain								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000472399600001	35	Article; Article		
J	Fair, Ray C.; Champa, Christopher								Estimated Costs of Contact in College and High School Male Sports								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	5			690	717		10.1177/1527002518798681			JUN 2019	2019	Injury rates in 12 U.S. men's college sports and 5 U.S. boys' high school sports are examined in this article. The sports are categorized as "contact" or "noncontact," and differences in injury rates between the two are examined. Injury rates in the contact sports are considerably higher than those in the noncontact sports, and they are on average more severe. Estimates are presented of the injury savings that would result if the contact sports were changed to have injury rates similar to those in the noncontact sports. The estimated college savings are 48,100 fewer injuries per year and 5,900 fewer healthy years lost-to-injury per year. The estimated high school savings are 568,600 fewer injuries per year and 92,000 fewer healthy years lost-to-injury per year. For concussions, the savings are 6,900 per year for college and 161,400 per year for high school. The estimated dollar value (in 2015 dollars) of the total injury savings is between US$433 million and US$1.5 billion per year for college and between US$5.1 billion and US$18.4 billion per year for high school.		[Fair, Ray C.] Yale Univ, 30 Hillhouse Ave, New Haven, CT 06520 USA; [Champa, Christopher] Anal Grp, Boston, MA USA; [Fair, Ray C.] Yale Univ, 30 Hillhouse Ave, New Haven, CT 06520 USA								10							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000466425700004	28	Article; Article		
J	Streicher, Tobias; Schmidt, Sascha L.; Schreyer, Dominik								Referenda on Hosting the Olympics: What Drives Voter Turnout?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	5			627	653		10.1177/1527002518794777			JUN 2019	2019	Public referenda have recently put an end to the ambitions of several cities to host the Olympic Games. The outcome of referenda depends on two major decisions: a content decision whether to support hosting the Olympics and a turnout decision whether or not to cast a vote. Unlike the content decision, the turnout decision has received little attention in sports economics, even though it can distort the outcome of a referendum, lead to a misrepresentation of minorities, and reduce the acceptance of referendum results. We therefore examine the determinants of turnout at Olympic referenda using a population-representative data set from 12 democratic countries. Our findings suggest a nonlinear and robust relationship between individual support and voter turnout.		[Streicher, Tobias; Schmidt, Sascha L.; Schreyer, Dominik] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, CSM, Erkrather Str 224a, D-40233 Dusseldorf, Germany; [Schreyer, Dominik] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, CSM, Erkrather Str 224a, D-40233 Dusseldorf, Germany								17							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000466425700001	54	Article; Article		
J	Clark, J. Michio; Connor, Thomas A.; Post, Andrew; Hoshizaki, T. Blaine; Gilchrist, Michael D.								The influence of impact surface on head kinematics and brain tissue response during impacts with equestrian helmets								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1599062				2019	Current equestrian standards employ a drop test to a rigid steel anvil. However, falls in equestrian sports often result in impacts with soft ground. The purpose of this study was to compare head kinematics and brain tissue response associated with surfaces impacted during equestrian accidents and corresponding helmet certification tests. A helmeted Hybrid III headform was dropped freely onto three different anvils (steel, turf and sand) at three impact locations. Peak linear acceleration, rotational acceleration and impact duration of the headform were measured. Resulting accelerations served as input into a three-dimensional finite element head model, which calculated Maximum principal strain (MPS) and von Mises stress (VMS) in the cerebrum. The results indicated that impacts to a steel anvil produced peak head kinematics and brain tissue responses that were two to three times greater than impacts against both turf and sand. Steel impacts were less than half the duration of turf and sand impacts. The observed response magnitudes obtained in this study suggest that equestrian helmet design should be improved, not only for impacts to rigid surfaces but also to compliant surfaces as response magnitudes for impacts to soft surfaces were still within the reported range for concussion in the literature.		[Clark, J. Michio; Connor, Thomas A.; Gilchrist, Michael D.] Univ Coll Dublin Belfield, Coll Engn & Architecture, Sch Mech & Mat Engn, Dublin, Ireland; [Connor, Thomas A.] Charles Owen & Co Ltd, Design Dept, Wrexham, Wales; [Post, Andrew] St Michaels Hosp, Div Neurosurg, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Post, Andrew; Hoshizaki, T. Blaine; Gilchrist, Michael D.] Univ Ottawa, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Gilchrist, Michael D.] Univ Coll Dublin Belfield, Coll Engn & Architecture, Sch Mech & Mat Engn, Dublin, Ireland; [Gilchrist, Michael D.] Univ Ottawa, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469689700001	62	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Provot, Thomas; Chiementin, Xavier; Bolaers, Fabrice; Murer, Sebastien								Effect of running speed on temporal and frequency indicators from wearable MEMS accelerometers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1607894				2019	Amplified by the development of new technologies, the interest in personal performance has been growing over the last years. Acceleration has proved to be an easy variable to collect, and was addressed in several works. However, few of them evaluate the effect of running speed on relevant indicators. The influence of the sensors location on the measurement is rarely studied as well. This study is dedicated to investigating the effect of running speed on acceleration measured at three different positions on 18 volunteers. All participants were equipped with three inertial measurement units: on the dorsal surface of the right foot (Fo), at the centre of gravity of the tibia (Ti), at the L4-L5 lumbar (Lu). The test was performed on a treadmill at nine randomised speeds between 8 and 18 km/h. Ten accelerometric variables were calculated. Linear regressions were used to calculate speed from the indicators calculated on (Lu), (Ti), (Fo). Indicators associated to signal energy were highly correlated with speed (). Median frequency appears to be affected by the frequency resolution. Finally, the measurement points closest to the impact zone result in the most correlated indicators.		[Provot, Thomas] EPF Grad Sch Engn, Dept Mech, Sceaux, France; [Chiementin, Xavier; Bolaers, Fabrice; Murer, Sebastien] Univ Reims Champagne Ardennes, Fac Exact & Nat Sci, Res Inst Engn Sci, Reims, France; [Provot, Thomas] EPF Grad Sch Engn, Dept Mech, Sceaux, France								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000470513800001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Vidal, Andrea Brugnoli; Monezi, Lucas Antonio; Sarro, Karine Jacon; Leite De Barros, Ricardo Machado								Analysis of required coefficient of friction in running and walking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1601251				2019	The popularity of running has increased over the past few years. However, just a few studies in running have focused on the friction between surface and shoe/foot. Changes in friction can affect aspects of human motion, such as safety, motion pattern and efficiency among others. The aim was to investigate the effects of cadence (walk, self-selected running and imposed-running), stance sub-phases (absorption and propulsion) and footwear (barefoot and shod) on the required coefficient of friction (RCOF) of regular runners. Twenty healthy runners (12 males, 8 females, 29.4 +/- 4.9 years, 70.4 +/- 9.6 kg) participated in this study. Two force plates were used to measure the ground reaction forces (GRF) in order to calculate the RCOF for each condition and the stance phase was divided in sub-phases. In walk, the RCOF was smaller in the absorption than in propulsion phase (p < 0.001). Results evidenced effects of the cadence (p < 0.001), stance sub-phases (p < 0.001) and footwear (p < 0.001) on the RCOF. There was interaction effect in cadence with stance sub-phases (p < 0.001) and footwear with stance sub-phases (p < 0.001). Our results show RCOF is influenced by cadence and footwear condition in the absorption phase.		[Vidal, Andrea Brugnoli; Monezi, Lucas Antonio; Sarro, Karine Jacon; Leite De Barros, Ricardo Machado] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Lab Instrumentat Biomech, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Vidal, Andrea Brugnoli] Univ Estadual Campinas, Fac Phys Educ, Lab Instrumentat Biomech, Campinas, SP, Brazil								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000470511200001	31	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Cournoyer, Janie; Hoshizaki, T. Blaine								Biomechanical comparison of concussions with and without a loss of consciousness in elite American football: implications for prevention								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1600004				2019	Loss of consciousness (LOC) associated with concussion is no longer considered an indicator of severity of injury in concussion management protocols. Studies investigating the association between LOC and recovery time or neurophysiological performance have reported ambiguous findings and resulted in a limited understanding of the severity of LOC-inducing head impacts. Concussive injuries with and without LOC from helmet-to-helmet and shoulder collisions and falls in elite American football were reconstructed in laboratory using a hybrid III headform and finite element model to obtain peak linear and rotational acceleration and brain tissue deformation metrics in the cerebral cortex, the cerebral white matter, the corpus callosum, the thalamus and the brainstem. Impact velocity, peak linear and rotational acceleration were significantly greater in the LOC group than the no LOC group. The brain tissue deformation metrics were greater in the LOC group than the no LOC group. The best overall predictor for LOC was impact velocity. Concussions with LOC are characterised by greater magnitudes of brain tissue deformation. This was mainly the result of higher impact velocities in the LOC group providing league decision-makers with an understanding of the importance of managing impact velocity through athlete education and rule enforcement or change.		[Cournoyer, Janie; Hoshizaki, T. Blaine] Univ Ottawa, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Cournoyer, Janie] Univ Ottawa, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469708400001	41	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Dokumaci, Bircan; Hazir, Tahir								Effects of the Menstrual Cycle on Running Economy: Oxygen Cost Versus Caloric Cost								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			318	326		10.1080/02701367.2019.1599800			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: This study investigated the effects of the menstrual cycle on running economy (RE). Method: Eleven eumenorrheic female athletes (mean age: 21.18 +/- 3.65 years, height: 170.2 +/- 6.6 cm, VO(2)max: 49.25 +/- 9.15 mL center dot kg(-1)center dot min(-1), and menstrual cycle: 29.8 +/- 0.98 days) were tested for anthropometric variables, physiological responses (oxygen consumption [VO2], blood lactate [LA], heart rate [HR], and respiratory exchange ratio [RER]) at rest and while running. The RE was measured at speeds of 75%, 85%, and 95% of the lactate threshold at 3.5 mmol center dot L-1 during the follicular (FP) and luteal phases (LP) of the menstrual cycle. The RE was evaluated as oxygen consumption (mL center dot kg center dot min(-1) [O(2C_)min], mL center dot kg(-1)center dot km(-1) [O(2C_)km]) and caloric unit cost (kcal center dot kg(-1)center dot km(-1) [E-C]) during both phases. Results: There were no significant differences in body composition or resting physiological measurements between the LP and FP (p > .05). Physiological responses measured during RE tests were similar in both phases (p > .05). The RE measured as O(2C_)min, O(2C_)km, and E-C was significantly lower during the LP than during the FP (p < .05). The RE defined as O-2C_ min significantly increased with speed (p < .05), but RE defined as O(2C_)km and E-C was unaffected by speed increment (p > .05). Conclusions: The RE is better in the LP than the FP and is independent of running speed when RE is evaluated as O(2C_)km and E-C. The menstrual cycle had no effect on body composition and physiological variables measured at rest.		[Dokumaci, Bircan] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Eskisehir, Turkey; [Dokumaci, Bircan] Anadolu Univ, Eskisehir, Turkey; [Hazir, Tahir] Hacettepe Univ, Ankara, Turkey; [Dokumaci, Bircan] Eskisehir Tech Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Coach Training Sports, TR-26555 Eskisehir, Turkey								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000470423500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Gil-Rey, Erreka; Maldonado-Martin, Sara; Gorostiaga, Esteban M.								Individualized Accelerometer Activity Cut-Points for the Measurement of Relative Physical Activity Intensity Levels								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			327	335		10.1080/02701367.2019.1599801			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: The aim of this study was to compare the widely used accelerometer activity cut-points derived from the absolute moderate intensity recommendation (3-6 METs), with relative intensity cut-points according to maximal cardiorespiratory fitness (46%-63% ) and to individual lactate thresholds (LT1 and LT2) in postmenopausal women. Method: Thirty postmenopausal women performed several exercise tests with measures of heart rate, blood lactate, accelerometer activity counts and oxygen consumption. Individual regressions were developed to derive the accelerometer activity counts at absolute and relative moderate intensity recommendations and at individual LTs. Results: The activity counts calculated at the lower moderate intensity boundary were lower for the absolute 3 METs threshold (2026 +/- 808 ct center dot min(-1)) compared to relative 46 % intensity threshold (p < .01, ES: 1.95) and LT1 (p < .01, ES: 2.27), which corresponded to 4.6 +/- 0.7 METs. The activity counts at the upper moderate intensity boundary were higher for LT2 (7249 +/- 2499 ct center dot min(-1)) compared to the absolute 6 METs threshold (p < .01, ES: 0.72) and relative 63% intensity threshold (p < .01, ES: 0.55). The interindividual variability in activity counts at relative intensity thresholds was high (CV = 30-34%), and was largely explained by cardiorespiratory fitness level (R-2 = similar to 50%). Conclusion: Individually tailored (relative to or submaximal LTs) rather than fixed accelerometer intensity cut-points derived from the classic absolute moderate physical activity intensity (3-6 METs) would result in a more accurate measurement of an individual ' s activity levels and reduce the risk of overestimating or underestimating physical activity.		[Gil-Rey, Erreka; Gorostiaga, Esteban M.] Govt Navarre, Pamplona, Spain; [Gil-Rey, Erreka; Maldonado-Martin, Sara] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Vitoria, Spain; [Gil-Rey, Erreka] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Educ & Sport,Phys Act & Sport Sci Sect, Lasarte Ataria 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000470427000001	42	Article; Article		
J	Almonroeder, Thomas Gus; Kernozek, Thomas; Cobb, Stephen; Slavens, Brooke; Wang, Jinsung; Huddleston, Wendy								Divided attention during cutting influences lower extremity mechanics in female athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	3			264	276		10.1080/14763141.2017.1391327			MAY 4 2019	2019	Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries in basketball appear to be more common when players are in possession of the ball. The greater risk of ACL injury when in possession of the ball may result from the athlete's inability to fully attend to their movement. However, it is also possible that having to carry/manipulate the ball restricts the athlete's ability to utilise their upper extremities for stability during a manoeuvre. The purpose of this study was to explore how possession of a basketball and divided attention influence lower extremity mechanics during cutting and landing. Twenty uninjured females with basketball experience performed a baseline lateral cutting task, as well as lateral cuts while carrying a basketball, with and without a subsequent chest pass. Requiring participants to carry the basketball in isolation (i.e., without the additional pass) had minimal influence on lower extremity mechanics compared to baseline. However, participants demonstrated less knee flexion (40.9 degrees vs. 47.3 degrees) and greater knee abduction (12.2 degrees vs. 10.1 degrees) for trials that included the additional pass (divided attention condition) compared to trials conducted while carrying the basketball in isolation. Athletes may be at greater risk for ACL injury when they are unable to solely attend to their movement.		[Almonroeder, Thomas Gus; Cobb, Stephen; Wang, Jinsung; Huddleston, Wendy] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Kinesiol, Milwaukee, WI 53201 USA; [Kernozek, Thomas] Univ Wisconsin, Phys Therapy Program, Dept Hlth Profess, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Slavens, Brooke] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Occupat Sci & Technol, Milwaukee, WI 53201 USA; [Almonroeder, Thomas Gus] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Kinesiol, Milwaukee, WI 53201 USA								34							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468948200004	54	Article; Article		
J	Turgut, Elif; Colakoglu, Filiz Fatma; Baltaci, Gul								Scapular motion adaptations in junior overhead athletes: a three-dimensional kinematic analysis in tennis players and non-overhead athletes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	3			308	316		10.1080/14763141.2017.1409256			MAY 4 2019	2019	Adult overhead athletes without a history of shoulder injury show scapular adaptations. There is a lack of detailed assessment of scapular kinematics in junior overhead athletes. This study aims to investigate three-dimensional scapular kinematics in junior overhead athletes. We recruited a total of 20 junior tennis players and 20 healthy children without participation in any overhead sports in this study. Bilateral scapular kinematic data were recorded using an electromagnetic tracking device for scapular plane glenohumeral elevation. The data were further analysed at 30 degrees, 45 degrees, 60 degrees, 90 degrees and 120 degrees during glenohumeral elevation and lowering. Statistical comparisons of the data between groups (junior overhead athletes and non-overhead athletes) and sides (serve dominant and non-dominant shoulders of the overhead athletes) were analysed with the ANOVA. Comparisons showed that, in general, the scapula was more upwardly rotated and anteriorly tilted in overhead athletes when compared to non-overhead athletes, however there was no side-to-side differences when serve dominant and non-dominant shoulders compared in junior overhead athletes. The serve dominant arm of junior overhead athletes had alternations in scapular kinematics when compared with the non-overhead athletes. These findings provide clinical evaluation implications and the need for clinicians to assess for potential adaptations in junior overhead athletes.		[Turgut, Elif] Hacettepe Univ, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Fac Hlth Sci, Ankara, Turkey; [Colakoglu, Filiz Fatma] Gazi Univ, Sch Sports Sci, Ankara, Turkey; [Baltaci, Gul] Private Guven Hosp, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Ankara, Turkey; [Turgut, Elif] Hacettepe Univ, Dept Physiotherapy & Rehabil, Fac Hlth Sci, Ankara, Turkey								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468948200008	29	Article; Article		
J	Rumpf, Michael Clemens; Cronin, John; Oliver, Jonathan; Hughes, Michael								Sprint running kinematics and kinetics in pre-peak-height-velocity male children on a non-motorised treadmill: reliability and normative data								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	3			256	263		10.1080/14763141.2017.1409796			MAY 4 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to quantify the reliability of kinematic and kinetic variables using a sample of pre-peak-height-velocity (PHV) male athletes sprinting on a non-motorised treadmill. Following variables were measured and their normative data presented, average and peak velocity, average and peak power, average and peak horizontal force, average and peak vertical force, average step frequency, average step length, average work. Twenty-five participants performed three 5-s all-out sprints from a standing split start on a non-motorised treadmill on three separate occasions. Per cent change in the means (-3.66 to 3.35%) and coefficients of variation (0.56-7.81%) were thought reliable for all variables. However, average step rate, average horizontal force and average vertical force did not meet the standards (>= 0.70) set for acceptable intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC). Due to the homogeneous group, it was expected to receive low ICC values. Therefore, youth sprinting performance can be tested reliably on a non-motorised treadmill, especially if the per cent change in the mean and CV are deemed the important reliability measures. Normative data are given for the participant's age as well as their maturity level for kinematic and kinetic variables.		[Rumpf, Michael Clemens; Cronin, John] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Oliver, Jonathan; Hughes, Michael] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Western Ave, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Rumpf, Michael Clemens] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468948200003	23	Article; Article		
J	Torrejon, Alejandro; Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos; Gregory Haff, G.; Garcia-Ramos, Amador								The load-velocity profile differs more between men and women than between individuals with different strength levels								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	3			245	255		10.1080/14763141.2018.1433872			MAY 4 2019	2019	This study aimed to determine the suitability of the load-velocity relationship to prescribe the relative load (%1RM) in women, as well as to compare the load-velocity profile between sexes and participants with different strength levels. The load-velocity relationship of 14 men (1RM: 1.17 +/- 0.19) and 14 women (1RM: 0.66 +/- 0.13) were evaluated in the bench press exercise. The main findings revealed that: (I) the load-velocity relationship was always strong and linear (R-2 range: 0.987-0.993), (II) a steeper load-velocity profile was observed in men compared to women (Effect size [ES]: 1.09), with men showing higher velocities for light loads (ES: - 0.81 and - 0.40 for the y-intercept and 30%1RM, respectively), but women reporting higher velocities for the heavy loads (ES: 1.14 and 1.50 at 90%1RM and 100%1RM, respectively); and (III) while the slope of the load-velocity profile was moderately steeper for weak men compared to their strong counterpart (ES: 1.02), small differences were observed between strong and weak women (ES: - 0.39). While these results support the use of the individual load-velocity relationship to prescribe the %1RM in the bench press exercise for women, they also highlight the large disparities in their load-velocity profile compared to men.		[Torrejon, Alejandro; Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Sport Sci, Granada, Spain; [Balsalobre-Fernandez, Carlos] Autonomous Univ Madrid, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Human Movement, Madrid, Spain; [Gregory Haff, G.] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Fac Educ, CIEDE, Concepcion, Chile; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Sport Sci, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Concepcion, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Conditioning, Fac Educ, CIEDE, Concepcion, Chile								83							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468948200002	27	Article; Article		
J	Levernier, Guillaume; Laffaye, Guillaume								Rate of force development and maximal force: reliability and difference between non-climbers, skilled and international climbers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				20	4			495	506		10.1080/14763141.2019.1584236			MAY 19 2021	2021	The goal of this study was to assess (i) test-retest reliability between sessions and within sessions, and (ii) the difference among three skill levels (international n = 12, skilled n = 10 and non-climbers n = 9) for finger flexor maximal force (Fmax) and rate of force development (RFD) at different time scales. Each climber performed a maximal finger flexion on a dynamometer in two different conditions: half crimp and slope crimp. The inter-session revealed no difference with low to high correlation from 0.56 to 0.94. Intra-session reliability reveals intraclass correlation ranging from 0.40 to 0.98 for all groups. The coefficients of variation ranged from 7.77% to 28.34% for RFD and 2.90% to 9.99% for Fmax. Maximal force, expressed as an absolute or normalised value, reveals a significant difference between all samples (22.11% difference between international and 38.58% between skilled and non-climbers). Finally, the difference in RFD200ms and RFD95% among the three groups suggests that the practice of intensive climbing causes many changes in neural and structural factors. Last, RFD200ms and RFD95% are highly reliable and can be used to discriminate samples, suggesting that these variables could be used in monitoring training.		[Levernier, Guillaume; Laffaye, Guillaume] Univ Paris Sud, Sport Sci Dept, Complex Innovat Motor & Sport Act, Orsay, France; [Levernier, Guillaume; Laffaye, Guillaume] Univ Orleans, Sport Sci Dept, Complex Innovat Motor & Sport Act, Orleans, France; [Laffaye, Guillaume] Univ Paris Sud, Sport Sci Dept, Complex Innovat Motor & Sport Act, Orsay, France; [Laffaye, Guillaume] Univ Orleans, Sport Sci Dept, Complex Innovat Motor & Sport Act, Orleans, France								31							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469544700001	25	Article; Article		
J	Takagi, Tokio; Murata, Munenori; Yokozawa, Toshiharu; Shiraki, Hitoshi								Dynamics of pelvis rotation about its longitudinal axis during the golf swing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1585472				2019	The purpose of this study was to identify the dynamic factors contributing to pelvis angular velocity about its longitudinal axis (pelvis axial angular velocity) during the golf swing. Thirty-one right-handed skilled golfers (handicap, 3.5 +/- 1.8) performed swings with a driver. The kinematic and kinetic data were collected using an optical motion analysis system and two force platforms. The dynamic factors (i.e., joint torque, gravitational force, motion-dependent forces and inertia forces) contributing to pelvis axial angular acceleration were calculated. The present study revealed that the left (lead) hip flexor and adductor torques as well as the right (trail) hip extensor and abductor torques were identified as the main contributors to pelvis axial angular velocity. These hip joint torques contributed not synchronously but sequentially to the pelvis. Although the knee joint torques contributed little to pelvis axial angular velocity directly, the knee joint torques might support the generation of large hip joint torques by regulating joint postures. These findings indicate that the functional coordination of the lower limb segments as well as the magnitude of the joint torques play an important role in rotating the pelvis.		[Takagi, Tokio; Murata, Munenori; Yokozawa, Toshiharu] Japan Inst Sports Sci, aDept Sports Res, Tokyo, Japan; [Shiraki, Hitoshi] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Takagi, Tokio] Japan Inst Sports Sci, aDept Sports Res, Tokyo, Japan								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469545400001	30	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Deutscher, Christian; Oetting, Marius; Schneemann, Sandra; Scholten, Hendrik								The Demand for English Premier League Soccer Betting								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	4			556	579		10.1177/1527002518794803			MAY 2019	2019	Betting markets have grown considerably lately. Despite their impact on the economic importance of professional sports, they just received academic interest recently. This article determines factors affecting the amount of money bet as well as the number of matched bets placed on the largest European soccer league, namely, the English Premier League between 2009-2010 and 2015-2016. Data from the betting exchange Betfair suggest season progress, weekday, number of substitutes, both teams market values, as well as uncertainty of outcome to determine market transactions and, hence, the economic importance.		[Deutscher, Christian; Oetting, Marius; Schneemann, Sandra; Scholten, Hendrik] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Univ Str 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, North Rhine Wes, Germany; [Oetting, Marius] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Business Adm & Econ, Bielefeld, Germany; [Deutscher, Christian] Bielefeld Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Univ Str 25, D-33615 Bielefeld, North Rhine Wes, Germany								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000464029300004	29	Article; Article		
J	Butler, Robert; Massey, Patrick								Has Competition in the Market for Subscription Sports Broadcasting Benefited Consumers? The Case of the English Premier League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	4			603	624		10.1177/1527002518784121			MAY 2019	2019	This paper investigates the peculiar nature of competition in the broadcasting market for live English Premier League matches in the United Kingdom. Following the movement from free-to-air to subscription television in 1992, British Sky Broadcasting secured a monopoly on live broadcasting rights. The exclusive arrangements were later found to be in breach of European competition law and resulted in competition from the start of the 2007-2008 season. However, competition has not reduced prices charged to consumers. Both the overall cost to consumers and the price per game are higher with competing broadcasters than under a monopoly.		[Butler, Robert] Univ Coll Cork, Dept Econ, Western Rd, Cork, Ireland; [Massey, Patrick] Compecon Ltd, Dublin 14, Ireland; [Butler, Robert] Univ Coll Cork, Dept Econ, Western Rd, Cork, Ireland								15							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000464029300006	30	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Young Hoon; Kim, Yongdai; Kim, Sara								A Bias-Corrected Estimator of Competitive Balance in Sports Leagues								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	4			479	508		10.1177/1527002518777974			MAY 2019	2019	The ratio of the actual standard deviation (ASD) to the idealized standard deviation of win percentages (RSD) is the conventional measure of competitive balance (CB). RSD is designed to control for the effect of season length on the sample standard deviation of win percentages (ASD). Theoretically, the RSD should be greater than 1, but empirical values below 1 have been found in previous studies. This article employs a mathematical statistics approach to evaluate the statistical properties of RSD and ASD. In doing so, this study finds that RSD is constructed by an invalid normalization approach and that ASD is biased. It also presents a bias-corrected standard deviation (BCSD) as a new estimator of the standard deviation of true win probabilities. Results from the simulations confirm the following: (i) ASD is prone to underestimate CB levels when the number of games is small, (ii) the RSD values become unreasonably large when the number of games is large, and (iii) BCSD performs well with respect to mean bias and root mean squared errors. According to empirical analysis of the English Premier League (EPL) and the Korea Baseball Organization (KBO), BCSD shows that the KBO was more competitively balanced than the EPL between 2000 and 2015, while the RSD implies that the two leagues were roughly equal.		[Lee, Young Hoon] Sogang Univ, Dept Econ, 1 Sinsoo Dong, Seoul 136792, South Korea; [Kim, Yongdai; Kim, Sara] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Stat, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Young Hoon] Sogang Univ, Dept Econ, 1 Sinsoo Dong, Seoul 136792, South Korea								18							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000464029300001	25	Article; Article		
J	Schreyer, Dominik; Schmidt, Sascha L.; Torgler, Benno								Football Spectator No-Show Behavior								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	4			580	602		10.1177/1527002518784120			MAY 2019	2019	In this article, we aim to contribute to the ever-growing economic literature on the determinants of football stadium attendance by exploring the increasingly important yet underresearched phenomenon of spectator no-show behavior. More specifically, we analyze a panel data set containing unique information on no-show behavior observed in the stadiums of 25 Bundesliga and Bundesliga 2 clubs. Our results suggest that no-show behavior is primarily shaped by explanatory factors related to a football games' quality aspects (e.g., an appearance by superstars, an away team rich in tradition, and geographical derbies). Interestingly, these effects seem to significantly differ across Bundesliga and Bundesliga 2.		[Schreyer, Dominik; Schmidt, Sascha L.] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, CSM, Erkrather Str 224a, D-40233 Dusseldorf, Germany; [Schmidt, Sascha L.; Torgler, Benno] CREMA, Zurich, Switzerland; [Torgler, Benno] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Econ & Finance, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Schreyer, Dominik] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, CSM, Erkrather Str 224a, D-40233 Dusseldorf, Germany								43							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000464029300005	81	Article; Article		
J	Hollman, Heather; Ezzat, Allison; Esculier, Jean-Francois; Gustafson, Paul; Scott, Alex								Effects of tailored advice on injury prevention knowledge and behaviours in runners: Secondary analysis from a randomised controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				164	170		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.04.003			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: To determine whether biweekly tailored advice was more effective than general advice at baseline alone for enhancing evidence-based running-related injury (RRI) prevention knowledge and behaviours in runners. Design: Randomised controlled trial, blinded statistical analysis, secondary analysis. Setting: Recreational running clinics. Participants: Running clinics were cluster randomised into intervention or control groups. All participants (n = 51) received general RRI prevention advice (baseline), after which the intervention group (n = 31) received additional biweekly tailored advice (weeks 3-11), before all participants completed a Final Questionnaire (week 13). Main outcome measures: Between-group differences in change of evidence-based RRI prevention knowledge and behaviours. Results: Compared to baseline, the number of correct knowledge responses significantly increased in the intervention group (5.77, 95% CI 4.73, 6.81) and remained unchanged in controls (0.25, 95% CI-1.04,1.55), outlining a positive effect only in the intervention group (p = 2.06 x 10(-8)). The number of correct behaviour responses significantly increased in the intervention group (1.94, 95% CI 0.94, 2.93) however this increase was not significantly greater than controls (p = 0.075). Conclusions: Biweekly tailored advice improved RRI prevention knowledge in runners. Further research into the impact of knowledge and behavioural change on RRI occurrence is warranted. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hollman, Heather] Fac Med, UBC Rehabil Sci Online Programs, Vancouver Campus,T325-2211 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 2B5, Canada; [Ezzat, Allison] UBC Sch Populat & Publ Hlth, 2206 East Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z3, Canada; [Ezzat, Allison] BC Childrens Hosp, Res Inst, 938 West 28th Ave, Vancouver, BC V5Z 4H4, Canada; [Ezzat, Allison] Univ Calgary, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, 2500 Univ Dr NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada; [Esculier, Jean-Francois; Scott, Alex] Fac Med, UBC Dept Phys Therapy, 212 Friedman Bldg,2177 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z3, Canada; [Gustafson, Paul] Fac Sci, UBC Dept Stat, 3182 Earth Sci Bldg,2207 Main Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada; [Hollman, Heather] Fac Med, UBC Rehabil Sci Online Programs, Vancouver Campus,T325-2211 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 2B5, Canada								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400026	28	Article; Article		
J	Hoon, Matthew W.; Haakonssen, Eric C.; Menaspa, Paolo; Burke, Louise M.								Racing weight and resistance training: perceptions and practices in trained male cyclists								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	4			421	426		10.1080/00913847.2019.1607602			OCT 2 2019	2019	Objectives: This study sought to investigate the perceptions and practices of achieving 'race weight' in a population of trained male cyclists. A secondary focus was to investigate the use of gym-based strength training, a possible attenuator of the side effects associated with weight reduction. Methods: A total of n = 97 well-trained cyclists ranging from local club level to international standard completed an online survey capturing data on the aforementioned topics. Results: Forty-nine percent of respondents indicated they were unsatisfied with their current bodyweight, with a similar percentage across club, national and international level riders. Riders who identified as climbers had lower reported bodyweight; however, all categories of riders expressed a desire to reduce bodyweight by a similar percentage (1.9%, +/- 3.4%; 90% CL). Seventy-seven percent of respondents indicated that they had recently tried or were currently trying to reduce bodyweight, most commonly by reducing food intake and avoiding sugary foods. Nine percent indicated they were using either supplements or medications to lower bodyweight, and 27% reported having sought advice from a health professional. A higher proportion of international riders engaged in strength training (85%), compared to national (50%) and club (55%) riders (p< 0.05). The most cited reasons for not strength training were time constraints and believing it was not beneficial to their cycling performance. Conclusion: These data suggest that trained male cyclists are a highly weight-conscious population who engage in a variety of practices to reduce weight. Practitioners should be aware of these tendencies, as they may carry significant health implications if poorly implemented.		[Hoon, Matthew W.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Haakonssen, Eric C.] Cycling Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Haakonssen, Eric C.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Menaspa, Paolo] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Burke, Louise M.] Australian Inst Sport, Sports Nutr, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Burke, Louise M.] Australian Catholic Univ, Mary MacKillop Inst Hlth Res, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Hoon, Matthew W.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Behav & Hlth Sci, 223 Antill St, Canberra, ACT 2602, Australia								20							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000471545800001	26	Article; Article		
J	Ramos, Marieli M.; Carnaz, Leticia; Mattiello, Stela M.; Karduna, Andrew R.; Zanca, Gisele G.								Shoulder and elbow joint position sense assessment using a mobile app in subjects with and without shoulder pain - between-days reliability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				157	163		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.016			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: To determine between-days reliability and the minimal detectable change for shoulder and elbow joint position sense assessment using a validated mobile app, in subjects with and without shoulder pain. Design: Reliability study. Setting: Clinical measurement. Participants: Subjects with (n = 25) and without shoulder pain (n = 29). Main outcome measures: Subjects were assessed by the same examiner in two sessions, with one-week interval. Active joint repositioning tests of shoulder flexion and scaption and elbow flexion were assessed at the target-angles of 50 degrees, 70 degrees, 90 degrees and 110 degrees. Intra-class correlation coefficient, standard error of measurement and minimal detectable change were calculated for constant, absolute, total and variable errors. Results: Good to excellent reliability was found for constant, absolute and total errors at the target-angle of 50 degrees of scaption for healthy subjects; at 110 degrees of shoulder flexion and all target-angles for elbow for both groups. Conclusions: The mobile app is a reliable tool and may be useful for assessing shoulder joint position sense mainly at 110 degrees of flexion and for elbow between 50 degrees and 110 degrees of flexion in subjects with and without shoulder pain. Minimal detectable changes were demonstrated and may help clinicians to follow-up rehabilitation and researchers to interpret findings of studies. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ramos, Marieli M.; Carnaz, Leticia; Zanca, Gisele G.] Univ Sagrado Coracao, Masters Program Phys Therapy, Bauru, SP, Brazil; [Mattiello, Stela M.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Phys Therapy, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Karduna, Andrew R.] Univ Oregon, Dept Human Physiol, Eugene, OR 97403 USA; [Zanca, Gisele G.] Ctr Univ Amer FAM, Rua Augusta 1508, BR-01305100 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Zanca, Gisele G.] Ctr Univ Amer FAM, Rua Augusta 1508, BR-01305100 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400025	43	Article; Article		
J	Bourne, Matthew N.; Bruder, Andrea M.; Mentiplay, Benjamin F.; Carey, David L.; Patterson, Brooke E.; Crossley, Kay M.								Eccentric knee flexor weakness in elite female footballers 1-10 years following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				144	149		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.010			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: To determine eccentric knee flexor strength in elite female Australian Rules Football (ARF) players with and without a history of unilateral anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) using an ipsilateral semitendinosus graft. Design: Case-control. Setting: Elite ARF Women's competition. Participants: Eighty-four elite female ARF players (mean age, 25 +/- 4.9 years; height, 1.71 +/- 0.73 m; weight, 67 kg +/- 7.4 kg) with (n = 12) and without (n = 72) a history of unilateral ACLR in the previous 10 years. Main outcome measures: Peak eccentric knee flexor force during the Nordic hamstring exercise (NHE). Results: Players with a history of unilateral ACLR displayed lower levels of eccentric knee flexor strength in their surgically reconstructed limb than their uninjured contralateral limb (mean difference -53.77 N, 95% CI = -85.06 to -24.27, d = -0.51) and compared to the limbs of players with no history of injury (mean difference = -46.32 N, 95% CI = -86.65 to -11.13, d = -0.73). Conclusion: Elite female ARF players with a history of unilateral ACLR display deficits in eccentric knee flexor strength in their surgically reconstructed limb for up to 10 years following surgery. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bourne, Matthew N.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Gold Coast, Australia; [Bourne, Matthew N.; Bruder, Andrea M.; Mentiplay, Benjamin F.; Carey, David L.; Patterson, Brooke E.; Crossley, Kay M.] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bruder, Andrea M.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Human Serv & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bourne, Matthew N.] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Gold Coast, Australia								29							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400023	41	Article; Article		
J	Calvo-Lobo, Cesar; Almazan-Polo, Jaime; Becerro-de-Bengoa-Vallejo, Ricardo; Elena Losa-Iglesias, Marta; Palomo-Lopez, Patricia; Rodriguez-Sanz, David; Lopez-Lopez, Daniel								Ultrasonography comparison of diaphragm thickness and excursion between athletes with and without lumbopelvic pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				128	137		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.015			MAY 2019	2019	Objective: The aim of this study was to compare diaphragm thickness and excursion between athletes with and without lumbopelvic pain (LPP) by trans-costal and trans-hepatic rehabilitative ultrasound imaging (RUSI), respectively. Design: A case-control study. Setting: Amateur and semiprofessional athletes teams. Participants: Forty matched-paired athletes with LPP (n = 20; LPP case group) and without LPP (n = 20; Healthy control group) were recruited. Main outcome measures: Diaphragm thickness and excursion (cm) were assessed during relaxed respiratory activity (maximum inspiration-T-ins, expiration-T-exp and difference-Tins-exp) by trans-costal and trans-hepatic rehabilitative ultrasound imaging (RUSI), respectively. Results: Statistically significant differences (P<.05) with an effect size from moderate to large (d = 0.63-1.07) were shown for bilateral diaphragm thickness reductions at T-ins and thickness difference at T-ins-T-exp of the right hemi-diaphragm for athletes with LPP compared to healthy athletes. Conclusions: Athletes who suffered from LPP presented a reduced diaphragm thickness compared to healthy matched-paired athletes. Therefore, these novel findings may suggest that diaphragm reeducation could be a main focus of intervention related to athletic performance, prevention and rehabilitation. Nevertheless, these findings should be considered with caution due to the possible influence of the RUSI measurement errors of the diaphragm activation during normal breathing. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Calvo-Lobo, Cesar] Univ Leon, Fac Hlth Sci, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, Nursing & Phys Therapy Dept, Leon, Spain; [Almazan-Polo, Jaime; Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Fac Nursing & Podiatry, Dept Hlth Sci, Res Hlth & Podiatry Unit, La Coruna, Spain; [Almazan-Polo, Jaime; Rodriguez-Sanz, David] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Becerro-de-Bengoa-Vallejo, Ricardo; Rodriguez-Sanz, David] Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Enfermeria Fisioterapia & Podol, Madrid, Spain; [Elena Losa-Iglesias, Marta] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Fac Hlth Sci, Alcorcon, Spain; [Palomo-Lopez, Patricia] Univ Extremadura, Univ Ctr Plasencia, Dept Nursing, Badajoz, Spain; [Rodriguez-Sanz, David] Univ Europea Madrid, Fac Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain								65							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400021	66	Article; Article		
J	Dutton, Megan; Tam, Nicholas; Brown, James C.; Gray, Janine								The cricketer's shoulder: Not a classic throwing shoulder								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				120	127		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.014			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: To describe the musculoskeletal adaptations inherent to the cricketers' shoulder and determine potential predictors of shoulder injury in elite South African cricketers. Design: Prospective longitudinal cohort study; Setting: Non-clinical, at national cricket indoor training venues. Participants: One hundred and six elite cricketers, representing 82% of the South African national and franchise teams, consent. A total of 105 cricketers (27 +/- 4 years) were eligible for participation in this study. Main outcome measures: A pre-season shoulder screening battery including a shoulder function questionnaire, two ultrasonographic shoulder measurements and 14 musculoskeletal tests including pain provocation, range of motion, strength and flexibility was assessed. Non-contact dominant shoulder injuries were documented throughout the 2016/2017 season. Results: The musculoskeletal profile of a cricketer's shoulder is described. 17% (95%Cl: 9-24%) of cricketers sustained an injury during the 2016/2017 season. Two of the 17 screening tests predicted seasonal dominant shoulder injury (p < 0.05): a dominant supraspinatus tendon thickness >= 5.85 mm (sensitivity: 72%, specificity: 63%) and non-dominant pectoralis minor length <= 12.85 cm (sensitivity: 83%, specificity: 55%). Conclusion: The musculoskeletal adaptations inherent to cricketing shoulders are distinctly different to the classic "thrower's shoulder" described in baseball. A thickened dominant supraspinatus tendon and a shortened non-dominant pectoralis minor muscle are risk factors for developing shoulder injury in this group. This identifies the need to investigate preventative strategies (strengthening/flexibility) and throwing workload management in cricketers with shoulder injury. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dutton, Megan; Tam, Nicholas; Gray, Janine] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Dept Human Biol, Fac Hlth Sci, Rondebosch, South Africa; [Tam, Nicholas] Univ Basque Country UPV, EHU, Fac Med & Nursing, Dept Physiol, Lejona, Spain; [Brown, James C.] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Surg Sci, Div Orthopaed,Inst Sport & Exercise Med, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Brown, James C.] IOC Res Ctr, Durban, South Africa; [Gray, Janine] Cricket South Africa, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Dutton, Megan] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Dept Human Biol, POB 115, ZA-7725 Cape Town, South Africa								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400020	67	Article; Article		
J	Arshadi, Rasoul; Ghasemi, Gholam Ali; Samadi, Hadi								Effects of an 8-week selective corrective exercises program on electromyography activity of scapular and neck muscles in persons with upper crossed syndrome: Randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				113	119		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.008			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: Postural disorders disturb muscle activity and lead to joint dysfunction. This study aimed to evaluate the effects of an 8-week selective corrective exercises program on electromyography activity of scapular and neck muscles in persons with upper crossed syndrome (UCS). Design: Randomized controlled trial. Setting: Exercise evaluation was conducted in a laboratory setting. Participant: Study recruited 30 healthy males with UCS from university students, who were then randomly divided into the control group (age = 20.14 +/- 1.71 years; height = 176.86 +/- 4.7 cm; BMI = 21.20 +/- 1.96 kg/m(2)) and the exercise group (age = 21.44 +/- 2.06 years; height = 174.2 +/- 4.0 cm; BMI = 20.62 +/- 3.9 kg/m(2)). Main outcome measures: Electromyography activity of upper trapezius (UT), middle trapezius (MT), lower trapezius (LT), serratus anterior (SA), and sternocleidomastoid (SCM) was recorded before and after 8-week exercise program. Results: T-test results revealed that baseline activity of SA (P <0.05), had increased while UT (P <0.05) and SCM (P < 0.05) activity as well as UT/SA (P < 0.05) and UT/LT (P < 0.05) ratios had decreased. In connection with these finding the effect sizes were large. Conclusion: Eight week corrective exercises balance muscles activity and can be used to manage developing upper quadrant musculoskeletal disorders in person with UCS. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Arshadi, Rasoul; Ghasemi, Gholam Ali] Univ Isfahan, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport Injuries & Correct Exercises, Esfahan, Iran; [Samadi, Hadi] Shahid Rajaee Teacher Training Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport Injuries & Correct Exercises, Tehran, Iran; [Ghasemi, Gholam Ali] Isfahan Univ, Sport Sci Fac, Azadi Sq, Esfahan 8174673441, Iran								29							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400019	44	Article; Article		
J	Bussey, M. D.; McLean, M.; Pinfold, J.; Anderson, N.; Kiely, R.; Romanchuk, J.; Salmon, D.								History of concussion is associated with higher head acceleration and reduced cervical muscle activity during simulated rugby tackle: An exploratory study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				105	112		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.012			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: The objective of this study is to explore the effect of concussion history on head control during front on rugby tackles in non-professional male and female Rugby Union players. Design: An observational cross-sectional design. Setting: A laboratory-based study of simulated front on rugby tackles with a dynamic relatively-weighted (similar to 50% body-mass) tackle bag. Participants: 27 club Rugby Union players were recruited; 10 (7female) with no-concussion history, 10 (3female) within 12-months of concussion and 7 (3female) with 24 + months since last concussion. Main outcome measures: Linear and rotational head acceleration measured with a skin mounted CSx (R) triaxial accelerometer. Normalized Surface EMG amplitude of the bilateral sternocleidomastoid (Scm), upper trapezius (Trap) and splenius capitis (Spl). All outcome measures were synchronised with moment of impact with the tackle bag. Results: A mixed-model analysis showed that players with 12-Month concussion history had the highest head acceleration (females = 48.6g, males = 68.3g, p < 0.05) with lower Trap (6.9-11.7%, p < 0.05) and Spl (3-12%, p < 0.05) amplitudes compared to athletes with No-concussion. Conclusions: These findings suggest probable disruption to neuromuscular control of the head in athletes with concussion history as a potential mechanism for recurrent concussion incidence. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bussey, M. D.; McLean, M.; Pinfold, J.; Anderson, N.; Romanchuk, J.] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin 9013, New Zealand; [Kiely, R.] Australian Sports Inst, Bruce, Australia; [Salmon, D.] New Zealand Rugby, Wellington, New Zealand; [Bussey, M. D.] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin 9013, New Zealand								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400018	42	Article; Article		
J	Fortin, Maryse; Rizk, Amanda; Frenette, Stephane; Boily, Mathieu; Rivaz, Hassan								Ultrasonography of multifidus muscle morphology and function in ice hockey players with and without low back pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				77	85		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.004			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: To examine the relationship between lumbar multifidus (LM) morphology, function, echo intensity (El) and body composition among a group of university level ice hockey players with and without low back pain (LBP). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University Research Centre. Participants: Thirty-two hockey players (18 females, 14 males) participated in this study. Main outcome measures: Resting LM cross-sectional area (CSA) was assessed bilaterally at the 15 level in prone and standing using ultrasound imaging. The LM thickness at rest and during contraction was evaluated in addition to LM El. Body composition measures were acquired using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) and LBP history was acquired using a self-reported questionnaire. Results: LM muscle CSA was significantly associated with body composition measurements. LM El was strongly associated with total % body fat and significantly greater in females. Resting LM muscle CSA and thickness (prone) was significantly smaller in players with LBP 4-weeks prior. LM side-to-side asymmetry (standing) was also significantly greater in players with LBP 3-months prior. Conclusion: The results provide new insights with regards to LM morphology and activation in ice hockey players and revealed specific deficits in LM morphology in athletes with LBP. LM morphology was strongly associated with body composition measurements. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Fortin, Maryse; Rizk, Amanda; Frenette, Stephane; Rivaz, Hassan] Concordia Univ, PERFORM Ctr, 7200 Sherbrooke St W 2-209, Montreal, PQ H4B 1R6, Canada; [Fortin, Maryse] Concordia Univ, Dept Hlth Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Boily, Mathieu] McGill Univ, Hlth Ctr, Dept Diagnost Radiol, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Rivaz, Hassan] Concordia Univ, Dept Elect & Comp Engn, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Fortin, Maryse] Concordia Univ, PERFORM Ctr, 7200 Sherbrooke St W 2-209, Montreal, PQ H4B 1R6, Canada								34							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400014	64	Article; Article		
J	Ortega-Cebrian, Silvia; Girabent-Farres, Montserrat; Whiteley, Rodney; Navarro, Ramon; Monne-Guasch, Laia; Bagur-Calafat, Caritat								Shoulder muscle onset timing during clinical assessment movements is the same in elite handball players as non-athletes: Implications for clinical assessment								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				64	68		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.02.007			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: This study examines neuromuscular firing patterns in overhead athletes and non-athletes of the periscapular, prime-moving, and rotator cuff muscles during "clinical" cardinal plane physiological movements. Design: Cohort prospective study. Setting: EMG recordings were taken of the periscapular, prime-moving, and rotator cuff muscles during flexion, scaption, and abduction performed at fast, medium, and slow speeds with a loaded (3 kg) and unloaded arm. Participants: 14 Handball players and 20 non-athletes. Differences in firing patterns between groups were analyzed by fitting mixed linear models with random intercepts per subject, and fixed factors for group, muscle, movement type, speed, and load. Main outcome measures: No difference in timing of activation was seen between the professional athletes and non-athletes. Results: Speed and load appear to independently vary muscle activation timing in a non-intuitive manner in both athletes and non-athletes. Onset timing of periscapular, prime movers and rotator cuff muscles are prior to movement in all scenarios studied, with rotator cuff muscles firing last. Conclusions: Onset activation patterns in overhead athletes are not different to non-athletes during cardinal plane movements. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ortega-Cebrian, Silvia; Girabent-Farres, Montserrat; Monne-Guasch, Laia; Bagur-Calafat, Caritat] Univ Int Catalunya, Physiotherapy Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Ortega-Cebrian, Silvia; Whiteley, Rodney] Aspetar Qatar Sport Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Ortega-Cebrian, Silvia; Navarro, Ramon] FC Barcelona, Med Dept, Barcelona, Spain; [Ortega-Cebrian, Silvia] C Marina 166-168 1 2a Esc B, Barcelona 08013, Spain								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400012	25	Article; Article		
J	Moreno-Perez, V.; Travassos, B.; Calado, A.; Gonzalo-Skok, O.; Del Coso, J.; Mendez-Villanueva, A.								Adductor squeeze test and groin injuries in elite football players: A prospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				54	59		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.03.001			MAY 2019	2019	Objective: To examining the relationship between hip adductor strength and groin injury incidence during the competitive season of professional football teams. Design: Prospective Cohort study. Setting: Controlled laboratory environment. Participants: Seventy-one players volunteered to participate. Main outcome measures: In the pre-season, maximal hip adductor strength was measured by means of the isometric adductor squeeze test. Hip adductor strength, normalized by body mass, was compared between players who suffered a groin injury (n = 18) vs uninjured players (n = 53). Risk ratios (RR) were used to evaluate the likelihood of players to suffer this type of injury. Results: Most of the reported groin injuries occurred during competitive matches (5.5 per 1000 match hours). Maximal isometric hip adductor strength was lower in the groin-injured group compared with their uninjured counterparts (429.8 +/- 100 vs 564 +/- 58.7 N, d = 1.58 and 5.40 +/- 1.27 vs 7.71 +/- 0.89 N/kg, d = 1.88, respectively). Results revealed that values of maximal isometric adductor strength lower than 465.33 N increased the probability to suffer a groin injury by 72%. Furthermore, values of force relative to body mass lower than 6.971 N/kg increased the probability to suffer a groin injury by 83%. Conclusion: The assessment of Hip adductor strength, in addition to other measurements, might help practitioners to determine the probability of suffering an overuse groin injuries in elite football players. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Moreno-Perez, V.] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Avda Univ S-N, Alicante 03202, Spain; [Travassos, B.] Univ Beira Interior, Dept Ciencias Desporto, P-6201001 Convento De Sto Antonio, Covilha, Portugal; [Calado, A.] Rio Ave FC, Rio Ave Rendimento,Rua Sancho I,Estadio Rio Ave, P-4489876 Vila Do Conde, Portugal; [Gonzalo-Skok, O.] Univ San Jorge Zaragoza, Fac Hlth Sci, Zaragoza 50830, Spain; [Del Coso, J.] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Sport Sci Inst, Exercise Physiol Lab, Castillo Alarcon 49, Villafranca Del Castillo 28692, None, Spain; [Mendez-Villanueva, A.] Qatar Football Assoc, Doha, Qatar; [Moreno-Perez, V.] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Avda Univ S-N, Alicante 03202, Spain								54							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400009	42	Article; Article		
J	Huang, Tzu-Hui; Chou, Li-Wei; Huang, Cheng-Ya; Wei, Shun-Wa; Tsai, Yi-Ju; Chen, Yu-Jen								H-reflex in abductor hallucis and postural performance between flexible flatfoot and normal foot								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				27	33		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.02.004			MAY 2019	2019	Objective: Morphological changes of the abductor hallucis muscle (AbH) in flexible flatfoot (FF) individuals influence regulations of the medial longitudinal arch (MLA). Prolonged and repeated stretching of AbH in flexible flatfoot may cause changes in muscle reflex properties and further influence postural performance. However, AbH muscle reflex under different postural conditions have never been examined. The purpose of this study was to investigate differences in AbH H-reflex and postural performance between individuals with normal foot (NF) alignment and FF under prone, double-leg stance (DLS), and single-leg stance (SLS) conditions. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: Individuals with FF (n = 12) and NF (n = 12). Main outcome measures: AbH H-reflex, AbH EMG and center of pressure (CoP) displacement. Results: Under all postural conditions, AbH H-reflex was significantly lower in the FF group (P <.05). Under the SLS condition, AbH EMG was significantly higher in the FF group (P <.05), and CoP displacement for the medial-lateral and anterior-posterior directions were significantly higher in the FF group (P<.05). Conclusions: With increased postural demand, FF individuals maintained their postural stability by recruiting greater AbH activities than through automatic stretch reflex, but FF individuals still showed inferior posture stability. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Huang, Tzu-Hui; Huang, Cheng-Ya; Chen, Yu-Jen] Natl Taiwan Univ, Coll Med, Sch & Grad Inst Phys Therapy, Floor 3,17,Xuzhou Rd, Taipei 100, Taiwan; [Chou, Li-Wei; Wei, Shun-Wa] Natl Yang Ming Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Assist Technol, 155,Sect 2,Linong St, Taipei 112, Taiwan; [Tsai, Yi-Ju] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 1,Ta Hsueh Rd, Tainan 701, Taiwan; [Chen, Yu-Jen] Fu Jen Catholic Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 510,Zhongzheng Rd, New Taipei 24205, Taiwan; [Chen, Yu-Jen] Floor 3,17,Xuzhou Rd, Taipei 100, Taiwan								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400005	46	Article; Article		
J	Rafnsson, E. T.; Myklebust, G.; Bahr, R.; Valdimarsson, O.; Frohm, A.; Arnason, A.								Characteristics of functional movement screening testing in elite handball players: Indicative data from the 9+								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				37				15	20		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.02.001			MAY 2019	2019	Objectives: To test 9 + screening batteries intra-rater reliability, to provide indicative data of elite handball players, and to analyze difference between age, playing positions and level of play. Design: Descriptive study. Setting: Icelandic elite male handball players. Participants: 182 elite male handball players. Main outcome measures: Nine + screening battery. Results: Reliability test; Intra-class correlation for the total score was 0.95. The correlation of each of the test factors varied from 0.63 to 0.91. The mean total score was 22.3 +/- 2.9 (95%Cl 16.7-28.1), with no difference in total score comparing players age or level of play. Goalkeepers displayed a higher total score than other players (F-3,F-151 = 5.75, p = 0.001). Junior players had a lower score than senior players in tests measuring abdominal strength and core stability; Test 5; vertical bar(2)(3, 182)= 41.5, p <0.0001, Test 6; vertical bar(2)(3, 182) = 55.7, p <0.0001, Test 7; vertical bar(2)(3, 182) = 11.8, p < 0.005, but higher scores in tests measuring trunk and shoulder mobility Test 8; vertical bar(2)(3, 182) =18.2, p < 0.0001, Test 9; vertical bar(2)(3, 182) = 22.2, p = 0.006. Conclusions: The 9+ intra-rater reliability was acceptable for the total score and individual tests. Age-related differences were provided in many individual tests. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rafnsson, E. T.; Arnason, A.] Univ Iceland, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Res Ctr Movement Sci, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Rafnsson, E. T.; Valdimarsson, O.] Orkuhusid, Phys Therapy & Med Ctr, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Myklebust, G.; Bahr, R.] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Oslo, Norway; [Frohm, A.] Karolinska Inst, Div Phys Therapy, Dept Neurobiol Care Sci & Soc NVS, Huddinge, Sweden; [Arnason, A.] Gaski Phys Therapy, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Rafnsson, E. T.] Univ Iceland, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Res Ctr Movement Sci, Reykjavik, Iceland								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000468716400003	45	Article; Article		
J	Rymal, Amanda M.; Ste-Marie, Diane M.								Feedforward Self-Modeling and Self-Regulation: It's Not Just for Learning								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			276	286		10.1080/02701367.2019.1593923			JUL 3 2019	2019	Purpose: This research investigated whether Zimmerman's model of self-regulated learning could be transferred into a competitive setting. We also investigated whether a feedforward self-modeling video could influence one's use of self-regulation and as such be an effective self-regulatory intervention. Methods: Nine competitive gymnasts took part in two interviews; one interview was conducted after a competition in which the video was viewed (experimental interview: EI) and the other after a competition where no video was seen (control interview: CI). Results: The gymnasts' responses to the interviews suggested that many processes and beliefs used in the learning context described by Zimmerman were also engaged in within a competitive context. Furthermore, comparison of gymnasts' responses between the EI and CI suggested that the feedforward self-modeling video influenced gymnasts' use of self-regulation during a competition. Conclusion: This research suggests that Zimmerman's model of self-regulation has potential to be transmitted into the competitive context and that an individual's self-regulation can be influenced by viewing a feedforward self-modeling video.		[Rymal, Amanda M.] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA; [Ste-Marie, Diane M.] Univ Ottawa, 125 Univ St, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada; [Ste-Marie, Diane M.] Univ Ottawa, 125 Univ St, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465896900001	26	Article; Article		
J	Sabzehparvar, Elnaz; Khaiyat, Omid A.; Ganji Namin, Behnaz; Minoonejad, Hooman								Electromyographic analysis in elite swimmers with shoulder pain during a functional task								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1597153				2019	The purpose of study was to determine and compare electromyographic activity of selected shoulder girdle muscles in elite swimmers with and without shoulder pain. Twelve professional swimmers with shoulder pain (mean age: 18.55 +/- 3.16 years, body mass: 74.33 +/- 2.91 kg and height: 179.00 +/- 5.29 cm) and 12 swimmers without pain (mean age: 18.11 +/- 1.61 years, body weight: 73.33 +/- 6.06 kg, height: 178.33 +/- 5.07 cm) were recruited. Surface electromyography signals were collected from seven upper limb muscles during a task: participants were instructed to mark points with a pen within each of the three circles counterclockwise. The normalised root-mean-square value was used to determine the muscular activation. Swimmers with shoulder pain demonstrated greater activation of the upper trapezius (pain group mean: 28.04 +/- 10.37, control group mean: 13.40 +/- 06.04; p = 0.002, : 0.455), serratus anterior (pain group mean: 30.78 +/- 20.09, control group mean: 13.30 +/- 5.52; p = 0.023, : 0.283) and latissimus dorsi (pain group mean: 27.05 +/- 17.87, control group mean: 4.99 +/- 3.90; p = 0.002, : 0.450) muscles. There was no difference (p > 0.05) in the activation of the middle and lower trapezius, middle deltoid and sternocleidomastoid. The altered muscle activation patterns may contribute to the painful shoulder in elite swimmers and need to be considered within the rehabilitation interventions.		[Sabzehparvar, Elnaz; Ganji Namin, Behnaz] Islamic Azad Univ, Karaj Branch, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Karaj, Iran; [Khaiyat, Omid A.] Liverpool Hope Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Minoonejad, Hooman] Univ Tehran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Dept Hlth & Sport Med, Tehran, Iran; [Sabzehparvar, Elnaz] Islamic Azad Univ, Karaj Branch, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Karaj, Iran								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465916100001	37	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Lins-Filho, Ozeas L.; Santos, Tony M.; Ritti-Dias, Raphael M.; Damasceno, Vinicius O.; Ferreira, Daniela K. S.								The Absolute and Relative Reliability of Psychophysiological Responses to Self-Selected Exercise Intensity in Elderly Women								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	3			270	275		10.1080/02701367.2019.1593922			JUL 3 2019	2019	Background: Self-selected exercise intensity (SSEI) promotes higher affect (pleasure) during exercise, but its reliability is still unclear. Purpose: to evaluate the test-retest reliability and the minimum detectable change of the perceptive and physiological responses in two sessions of SSEI on treadmill in elderly women. Method: Twenty elderly women (ages 65.3 +/- 4.2 years) performed two 20-min laboratory-based treadmill aerobic exercise sessions with self-selected intensity. During the sessions, %VO2max, %HRreserve, affect, and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) were recorded. Reliability was calculated using the intraclass correction coefficient (ICC) and Bland-Altman plots. The minimum detectable change (MDC) was also calculated. Results: ICC values were 0.98 for % VO2max, 0.83 for % HRreserve, 0.85 for affect, and 0.80 for RPE. No differences were observed in mean values between sessions for all the variables. MDCs were lower than 0.7% for VO2max, 11.7% for HRreserve, 0.7 for affect, and 0.8 for RPE. Bland-Altman plots showed a bias of 0.50% for HRreserve, 3.2% for VO2max, 0.05 for affect, and -0.35 for RPE. Conclusion: Self-selected intensity during aerobic exercise performed on treadmill is reliable, which promotes adequate and lower MDC values on physiological and perceptual responses in elderly women.		[Lins-Filho, Ozeas L.] Univ Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Santos, Tony M.; Damasceno, Vinicius O.; Ferreira, Daniela K. S.] Fed Univ Pernambuco UFPE, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Ritti-Dias, Raphael M.] Nove Julho Univ, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Lins-Filho, Ozeas L.] Univ Pernambuco, Postgrad Program Hlth Sci, Arnobio Marques St 310, BR-50100130 Recife, PE, Brazil								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466027300001	26	Article; Article		
J	Verheul, Jasper; Nedergaard, Niels J.; Pogson, Mark; Lisboa, Paulo; Gregson, Warren; Vanrenterghem, Jos; Robinson, Mark A.								Biomechanical loading during running: can a two mass-spring-damper model be used to evaluate ground reaction forces for high-intensity tasks?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1584238				2019	Running impact forces expose the body to biomechanical loads leading to beneficial adaptations, but also risk of injury. High-intensity running tasks, especially, are deemed highly demanding for the musculoskeletal system, but loads experienced during these actions are not well understood. To eventually predict GRF and understand the biomechanical loads experienced during such activities in greater detail, this study aimed to (1) examine the feasibility of using a simple two mass-spring-damper model, based on eight model parameters, to reproduce ground reaction forces (GRFs) for high-intensity running tasks and (2) verify whether the required model parameters were physically meaningful. This model was used to reproduce GRFs for rapid accelerations and decelerations, constant speed running and maximal sprints. GRF profiles and impulses could be reproduced with low to very low errors across tasks, but subtler loading characteristics (impact peaks, loading rate) were modelled less accurately. Moreover, required model parameters varied strongly between trials and had minimal physical meaning. These results show that although a two mass-spring-damper model can be used to reproduce overall GRFs for high-intensity running tasks, the application of this simple model for predicting GRFs in the field and/or understanding the biomechanical demands of training in greater detail is likely limited.		[Verheul, Jasper; Nedergaard, Niels J.; Gregson, Warren; Vanrenterghem, Jos; Robinson, Mark A.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Nedergaard, Niels J.; Vanrenterghem, Jos] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Pogson, Mark; Lisboa, Paulo] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Dept Appl Math, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Pogson, Mark] Quintessa Ltd, Henley On Thames, England; [Verheul, Jasper] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England								39							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469617100001	24	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Guillaume, Justine Fortier; Laroche, Davy; Babault, Nicolas								Kinematics and electromyographic activity of horse riders during various cross-country jumps in equestrian								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1597154				2019	The objective of this study was to identify the key biomechanical patterns (functional muscles and kinematics) of amateur horse riders during various cross-country jumps in equestrian. Eleven riders first performed a control condition that corresponded to jumps over three different obstacles (log wall, brush and tree trunk) before jumping over the same three obstacles in a cross-country course. 3D Kinematics and electromyographic (EMG) activity was synchronously collected which included seven muscles of the riders back, lower and upper limbs. Maximum voluntary isometric strength of knee extensors was also measured before and immediately after the race to investigate potential fatigue. Our results showed similar EMG activity for the different obstacles. Whereas some kinematics alterations were observed between obstacles. Moreover, back movements alterations were recorded between the jumps of the cross-country as compared to the control condition. Finally, muscle strength was not altered after the race. In conclusion, our study indicates that upper and lower body muscles contributed to the realisation of various jumps during a cross-country and that the different configurations of the obstacles did not induced specific muscular and kinematic responses.		[Guillaume, Justine Fortier; Babault, Nicolas] Univ Burgundy, Sport Sci Fac, Ctr Performance Expertise, Cognit Act & Sensorymotor Plast Unit1093, Dijon, France; [Guillaume, Justine Fortier] Pommier Nutr, Chateauneuf En Thymerais, France; [Laroche, Davy] Univ Burgundy, Univ Hosp Ctr, Technol Res Platform, Cognit Act & Sensorymotor Plast Unit1093, Dijon, France; [Babault, Nicolas] Univ Burgundy, Sport Sci Fac, Ctr Performance Expertise, Cognit Act & Sensorymotor Plast Unit1093, Dijon, France								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465982600001	23	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Quittmann, Oliver J.; Abel, Thomas; Albracht, Kirsten; Strueder, Heiko K.								Reliability of muscular activation patterns and their alterations during incremental handcycling in able-bodied participants								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1593496				2019	The aim of this study was to assess muscle activity patterns (MAPs) in handcycling in terms of reliability and their alterations due to increasing workload. A total of 12 able-bodied triathletes performed an incremental step test until subjective exhaustion in a racing handcycle that was mounted on an ergometer. During the test, muscular activity of 10 muscles of the upper extremity and trunk was measured using surface electromyography (sEMG). MAPs were examined by calculating integrated EMG (iEMG), the onset, offset and range of activation (RoA). Parameters of MAPs were analysed using intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and two-way ANOVA with repeated measures. ICCs ranged from 0.775 to 0.999 indicating 'good' to 'excellent' reliability. All muscles increased their iEMG from low to high intensity with differing effect-sizes. Several muscles showed an earlier onset and increased RoA. MAPs in handcycling are highly reliable and alterated due to increasing workload in able-bodied participants. Whereas muscular effort can be examined in a single cycle, muscle activation characteristics require at least six to ten consecutive revolutions to achieve 'good' or 'excellent' reliability. At high intensity, many muscles demonstrated an earlier onset and larger RoA. Future studies should validate these findings in several elite handcyclists and investigate all-out sprint exercises.		[Quittmann, Oliver J.; Abel, Thomas; Strueder, Heiko K.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Movement & Neurosci, Cologne, Germany; [Abel, Thomas] European Res Grp Disabil Sport, Cologne, Germany; [Albracht, Kirsten] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomecha & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany; [Albracht, Kirsten] Univ Appl Sci Aachen, Fac Med Engn & Technomath, Aachen, Germany; [Quittmann, Oliver J.] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Movement & Neurosci, Cologne, Germany								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465981700001	14	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Shen, Peixin; Mao, Dewei; Zhang, Cui; Sun, Wei; Song, Qipeng								Effects of running biomechanics on the occurrence of iliotibial band syndrome in male runners during an eight-week running programme-a prospective study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1584235				2019	Iliotibial band syndrome (ITBS) is a common injury that is related to running biomechanics. This study aimed to determine the gait characteristics that easily induce ITBS and explore the gait changes after the occurrence of ITBS. Thirty healthy male recreational runners participated in our study. Amongst them, 15 developed ITBS and comprised the ITBS group; the other 15 were healthy and comprised the control group. All participants underwent two gait trials, namely, before the first day of their running and after eight weeks, during which a force platform and a motion capture system collected biomechanical data. After running, the ITBS group exhibited greater anterior pelvic tilt and hip flexion angle than the control group. The ITBS group showed increased trunk inclination angle, whereas the control group demonstrated lower hip flexion, hip adduction angle and hip abductor moment than those at the beginning of running. Decreasing hip flexion, adduction angle and abductor moment may be a reasonable strategy to avoid the occurrence of ITBS. The occurrence of ITBS may be due to the lack of timely gait adjustment. Excessive trunk inclination and anterior pelvic tilt angle may be risks factor in the development of ITBS during running.		[Shen, Peixin; Mao, Dewei; Song, Qipeng] Shandong Sport Univ, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Cui; Sun, Wei] Shandong Inst Sport Sci, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Song, Qipeng] Shandong Sport Univ, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples R China								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466239200001	28	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Virtuoso, Janeisa Franck; Menezes, Enaiane Cristina; Mazo, Giovana Zarpellon								Effect of Weight Training with Pelvic Floor Muscle Training in Elderly Women with Urinary Incontinence								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			141	150		10.1080/02701367.2019.1571674			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: To determine if weight training combined with pelvic floor muscle training is more efficient than pelvic floor muscle training alone for the treatment of urinary incontinence (UI) symptoms in elderly women. Method: This was a two-arm, parallel, randomized controlled trial. Twenty-six women with stress UI participated in the study. The intervention group (IG) underwent training with moderate intensity weights combined with pelvic floor muscle training, whereas the control group (CG) only underwent pelvic floor muscle training. Intervention occurred twice a week over 12 weeks. The International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form was used as the main measure. Scores of zero defined the absence of symptoms. The absence of symptoms was evaluated at 4 weeks, 12 weeks, and 1 month after the end of treatment. Moreover, activities related to UI and the use and change of daily protection were investigated. Results: The rate of absence of symptoms was significantly higher in IG after 4 weeks (58.3%) compared to CG (14.8%). The relative risk was 4.1 (95% confidence interval [CI] [1.08, 16.06]). Although no intention-to-treat analysis was performed, there was no difference in the evaluations after the interventions. Conclusion: Compared to pelvic floor muscle training alone, the combination of weight training and pelvic floor muscle training provided earlier improvement of UI in elderly women.		[Virtuoso, Janeisa Franck] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ararangua, SC, Brazil; [Menezes, Enaiane Cristina; Mazo, Giovana Zarpellon] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Virtuoso, Janeisa Franck] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Dept Physiotherapy, Rua Govt Jorge Lacerda 3201, BR-88905355 Ararangua, SC, Brazil								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465797800001	32	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Yehui; Ma, Xiao; Zhang, Yingbing; Wu, Lili; Yang, Zhaoxi; Yang, Tao; Li, Youfa								Relationship of Physical Education Curriculum Implementation and Mathematics Achievement in Chinese Youth								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			133	140		10.1080/02701367.2019.1603775			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: Previous studies indicated a positive association between physical education (PE) and mathematics achievement (MA). This study explored how PE curriculum implementation relates to MA using data from the China National Assessment of Education Quality (CNAEQ) in 2015, including Mathematics (CNAEQ-MA 2015) as well as Physical Education & Health (CNAEQ-PEH 2015). Method: This study included 22,619 students (48.7% girls) age 13.96 +/- 0.64yr. from the national sample of Grade 8 students from CNAEQ. During 2015, MA and cardiorespiratory fitness (CF) were assessed. PE curriculum implementation, personal hygiene, eating habits, PE interest, mathematics interest, and self-confidence were collected via a self-report student survey. Personal hygiene and eating habits were combined to create the latent variable, healthy lifestyle (HL). Structural equation modeling was applied to examine the associations. Socioeconomic status, school location, Body Mass Index (BMI), and sex were all controlled. Results: PE curriculum implementation had an indirect, positive association with MA through CF, HL-mathematics interest, and HL-mathematics self-confidence. Together, the model explained 27.8% of the variance in MA. Conclusion: PE curriculum implementation may benefit mathematics education, and this link is mainly through HL, CF, mathematics interest, and self-confidence.		[Wang, Yehui; Ma, Xiao; Wu, Lili; Yang, Zhaoxi; Yang, Tao; Li, Youfa] Beijing Normal Univ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Yingbing] Univ Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801 USA; [Li, Youfa] Beijing Normal Univ, Collaborat Innovat Ctr Assessment Basic Educ Qual, 19 XinJieKouWai St, Beijing 1008751, Peoples R China								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469148100004	35	Article; Article		
J	Loprinzi, Paul D.; Scott, Tammy M.; Ikuta, Toshikazu; Addoh, Ovuokerie; Tucker, Katherine L.								Association of physical activity on changes in cognitive function: Boston Puerto Rican Health Study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	2			227	231		10.1080/00913847.2018.1547087			APR 3 2019	2019	Objective: To evaluate the association of habitual physical activity engagement on changes in cognitive function among Puerto Rican adults. Methods: Longitudinal data (2-year follow-up) from the Boston Puerto Rican Health Study were analyzed (n = 862; mean age = 56.5 year). A daily energy expenditure score was calculated using the number of hours over a 24-h period engaged in various activities, including sleeping, light activity, and moderate-to-vigorous exercise. Energy expenditure estimates were weighted based on the rate of oxygen consumption associated with each activity. Seven cognitive function outcomes were evaluated, including an assessment of general cognitive function, episodic memory, attention and working memory, cognitive flexibility, response inhibition, processing speed, and visuo-spatial organization. From these, overall executive function and memory capacity were derived using principal components analysis. Results: Physical activity was not associated with changes in overall executive function. However, compared to those with low baseline physical activity, those with moderate physical activity had 48% reduced odds of having >= 1 standard deviation decline in memory function (OR = 0.52; 95% CI: 0.32, 0.84; p = 0.008) in 2 years. Conclusion: Among Puerto Rican adults, physical activity may help attenuate memory decline.		[Loprinzi, Paul D.] Univ Mississippi, Exercise & Memory Lab, Phys Act Epidemiol Lab, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, 229 Turner Ctr, Oxford, MS USA; [Scott, Tammy M.] Tufts Univ, Sch Med, Friedman Sch Nutr Sci & Policy, Boston, MA 02111 USA; [Ikuta, Toshikazu] Univ Mississippi, Dept Commun Sci & Disorders, Digital Neurosci Lab, Oxford, MS USA; [Addoh, Ovuokerie] Univ Mississippi, Phys Act Translat Hlth Sci PATHs Lab, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Oxford, MS USA; [Tucker, Katherine L.] Univ Massachusetts Lowell, Ctr Populat Hlth Biomed & Nutr Sci, Boston, MA USA; [Loprinzi, Paul D.] Univ Mississippi, Exercise & Memory Lab, Phys Act Epidemiol Lab, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, 229 Turner Ctr, University, MS 38677 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466088200013	38	Article; Article		
J	Park, JaeMyoung; Kim, Taegyu								Acute effect of taping on plantar pressure characteristics in athletes with exercise-induced leg pain: a description and comparison of groups								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	2			212	219		10.1080/00913847.2018.1547085			APR 3 2019	2019	Objectives: Foot pronation is considered as a potential risk factor of lower leg overuse injury. This study aimed to identify plantar pressure characteristics of elite athletes with exercise-induced leg pain in throwing athletic disciplines, and to verify the acute effect of taping for restricting foot pronation by analyzing the plantar pressure characteristics. Methods: This study was designed as a description and comparison of throwing athletic athletes. Participants were divided into exercise-induced leg pain (ELP group, n = 17) and control groups (CON group, n = 14). Plantar pressure variables (contact area, maximum force, and peak pressure) at eight-foot regions in athletes' supporting leg were recorded during standing on one leg and a natural walk before and after applying anti-pronation or sham taping techniques. Results: There are significant difference of contact area, maximal force, and peak pressure in some regions of their foot between the ELP and CON groups. But the anti-pronation taping decreased only the peak pressure in lateral midfoot of CON group during a natural walk (p = 0.002). Conclusion: The anti-pronation taping technique may not be effective preventive strategy from the exercise-induced leg pain, such as shin splints.		[Park, JaeMyoung] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Res Inst Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Taegyu] Pukyong Natl Univ, Dept Marine Sports, 45 Yongso Ro, Busan 48513, South Korea; [Kim, Taegyu] Pukyong Natl Univ, Dept Marine Sports, 45 Yongso Ro, Busan 48513, South Korea								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466088200011	54	Article; Article		
J	Li, Youfa; Wang, Sijia; Yu, Yong; Wu, Lili; Shi, Yutong; Zhang, Michelle; Wu, Xinwei; Ma, Xiao								Associations Among Physical Education, Activity-Related Healthy Lifestyle Practices, and Cardiorespiratory Fitness of Chinese Youth								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			123	132		10.1080/02701367.2019.1603772			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: Physical education (PE) in school provides opportunities for physical activity (PA) engagement and reportedly results in improved health-related fitness. This study explored the underlying correlations between PE and activity-related healthy lifestyle practices with current level of cardiorespiratory fitness. Methods: A total of 13,138 students age 14 (boys=7,094, 54.0%) in Grade 8 from the China National Assessment of Educational Quality - Physical Education & Health 2015 were included in this study. Two independent structural equation modeling (SEM) analyses were conducted to obtained sex-specific results. Data included the results of the 15-m progressive aerobic cardiovascular endurance run (PACER) and questionnaire data regarding PE curriculum implementation, learning and practice, perceived support from PE teachers, PE facilities, PE equipment, activity-related healthy lifestyle practices, habitual physical fitness, appropriate method of physical fitness, and breakfast eating habits. Structural equation modeling was applied to examine the associations between variables, controlling for socioeconomic status, the location of schools, and Body Mass Index. Results: There was a statistically significant relationship between cardiorespiratory fitness and activity-related healthy lifestyle practices, which was somewhat positively impacted by skill learning and practice and perceived support from PE teachers. Together, the boy's model explained 21.8% of the variance in cardiorespiratory fitness, whereas the girl's model explained 15.9%. Conclusions: A well-organized PE program is related to students' activity-related healthy lifestyle practices, and consequently provides an improvement to cardiorespiratory fitness.		[Li, Youfa; Wang, Sijia; Yu, Yong; Wu, Lili; Shi, Yutong; Wu, Xinwei; Ma, Xiao] Beijing Normal Univ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Michelle] Columbia Univ, New York, NY USA; [Ma, Xiao] Beijing Normal Univ, Collaborat Innovat Ctr Assessment Basic Educ Qual, 19 XinJieKouWai St, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469148100003	41	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Yunyun; Liu, Sichen; Li, Youfa; Li, Xin; Ren, Ping; Luo, Fang								The Relationships Between Weight Status and Physical Fitness Among Chinese Children and Youth								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			113	122		10.1080/02701367.2019.1603768			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: This study examined the prevalence of different weight status and the relationships between weight status and physical fitness among Chinese children and youth. Methods: Participants were 107,206 Grade 4 children and 70,213 Grade 8 youth from the China National Assessment of Educational Quality - Physical Education & Health in 2015 (CNAEQ-PEH 2015). Using World Health Organization (WHO) and US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) criteria, weight status was divided into four groups (underweight, normal weight, overweight, and obese) according to Body Mass Index (BMI). The differences of physical fitness performances (15-m progressive aerobic cardiovascular endurance run [PACER], standing long jump, and 50-m sprint) among four weight status groups were compared. Data were analyzed using descriptive statistics, MANCOVA, and Cohen's d.Results: The prevalence of weight status varied by criteria (e.g., for Grade 4 boys, the prevalence of underweight by WHO and CDC were 5.9% and 10.5%; overweight were 14.5% and 11.4%, respectively). Compared with the normal weight group, the selected physical fitness performances in the overweight and obese groups were worse (p <.001) with small to large effect sizes. Conclusion: The prevalence of underweight and overweight/obese was relatively high among Chinese children and youth. The prevalence of underweight, overweight, and obesity varied slightly depending on the criteria used for evaluating BMI. The overweight/obese participants tended to perform poorer in selected physical fitness tests. The performance disparities between the normal weight group and overweight/obese groups were larger in Grade 4 than in Grade 8 and among boys than among girls.		[Zhang, Yunyun; Liu, Sichen; Li, Youfa; Li, Xin; Ren, Ping; Luo, Fang] Beijing Normal Univ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Luo, Fang] Beijing Normal Univ, Sch Psychol, Room 1416 New Main Bldg,19 Xinjiekouwai St, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000469148100002	34	Article; Article		
J	Abate, Michele; Di Carlo, Luigi; Salini, Vincenzo								Platelet rich plasma compared to dry needling in the treatment of non-insertional Achilles tendinopathy								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	2			232	237		10.1080/00913847.2018.1548886			APR 3 2019	2019	Objectives: The efficacy of platelet rich plasma in the treatment of Achilles tendinopathy is controversial. Despite positive results observed in open studies, randomized controlled trials failed to show difference against saline or rehabilitation. Aims of this retrospective observational study were to compare the efficacy of platelet-rich plasma and dry needling and to assess possible differences age and sex-related. Methods: Groups of 46 and 38 patients with non-insertional Achilles tendinopathy were treated with platelet-rich plasma and dry needling (once a week for 3 weeks), respectively. At baseline, 3 and 6 months, pain and function scores and the percentage of satisfactory outcomes were evaluated. Sub-group analyses were performed according to age and sex. Results: At 3 and 6 months no differences in terms of pain and function between groups were observed, but the percentage of subjects reporting satisfactory results, at 6 months, was higher in platelet rich plasma group. Better results were observed in younger subjects, with a greater reduction of pain, improvement of function, and accordingly of the percentage of positive outcomes. A trend toward better results was also observed in males. Conclusion: Beneficial effects of platelet rich plasma and dry needling in non-insertional Achilles tendinopathy have been observed only in some subjects, but not in others; platelet rich plasma shows a slight superiority against dry needling, mainly in younger persons; finally, a gender difference in the therapeutic response can be hypothesized.		[Abate, Michele; Di Carlo, Luigi; Salini, Vincenzo] Univ G DAnnunzio, Dept Med & Sci Aging, Via Vestini 31, I-66013 Chieti Scala, CH, Italy; [Abate, Michele] Univ G DAnnunzio, Dept Med & Sci Aging, Via Vestini 31, I-66013 Chieti Scala, CH, Italy								16							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466088200014	30	Article; Article		
J	Kragt, Lea; Moen, Maarten H.; Van Den Hoogenband, Cees-Rein; Wolvius, Eppo B.								Oral health among Dutch elite athletes prior to Rio 2016								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	2			182	188		10.1080/00913847.2018.1546105			APR 3 2019	2019	Objectives: Elite athletes are at high risk for poor oral health. A screening program to assess oral health and create dental awareness can improve oral health among elite athletes but has not been performed in the Netherlands before. We summarize the first results from such a screening conducted in Dutch elite athletes of the Nederlands Olympisch Committee*Nederlandse Sport Federatie (NOC*NSF, Dutch Olympic Committee). Methods: In this cross-sectional study, 800 Dutch athletes eligible for the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro 2016 were invited to a costless and voluntary oral examination. The decayed, missing, and filled teeth-index (DMFT), the basic erosive wear examination (BEWE) and the Dutch Periodontal Screening-index (DPSI) were used to evaluate athlete's oral health. Information on sociodemographic variables and sport performance were collected in questionnaires. Results: In total, 116 Dutch elite athletes were included in the study. The median (90%-range) DMFT-score was 3.0 (0.0-16.0), the median BEWE-score was 2.0 (0.0-10.0), and the mean +/- SD DPSI-score was 2.0 +/- 0.73. Oral health-related quality of life was generally high, although only 28.2% of the athletes reported never having problems with their dentition or mouth. In 43% of the athlete's clinical findings were reported which needed a direct referral to the general dentist. Conclusion: Oral health in this subsample of Dutch elite athletes was surprisingly affected as almost half of them needed dental treatment. Further research is needed to allow conclusions about oral health in Dutch elite athletes more broadly. However, regular screening of oral health incorporated into the general preventive health care of elite athletes is necessary to ensure athletes are fully healthy during competitions like the Olympic and Paralympic Games.		[Kragt, Lea; Wolvius, Eppo B.] Erasmus MC, Dept Oral & Maxillofacial Surg, Special Dent Care & Orthodont, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Moen, Maarten H.; Van Den Hoogenband, Cees-Rein] Nederlandse Sport Federatie, High Performance Team Nederlands Olymp Comm, Arnhem, Netherlands; [Kragt, Lea] POB 2040, NL-3000 CA Rotterdam, Netherlands								35							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466088200007	29	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Xu; Yu, Yadong; Shao, Xinzhong; Dhawan, Vikas; Du, Wei								A randomized comparison of bone-cement K-wire fixation vs. plate fixation of shaft fractures of proximal phalanges								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	2			189	198		10.1080/00913847.2018.1546106			APR 3 2019	2019	Background: The objective of this study (ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT03031015) is to compare the treatments of hand proximal phalanx shaft fractures with external-fixation technique using the combination of K-wires and bone-cement vs. open reduction and internal fixation technique using a miniature plate-and-screw system. Methods: A total of 107 patients (134 cases) were randomly allocated to group A (67 cases in 56 patients) and B (64 cases in 51 patients). Fingers in group A were treated with bone-cement K-wire fixation, and fingers in group B were treated using a plate-and-screw system. Results: Follow-ups lasted 2 years. In group A, active range of motion of proximal interphalangeal joint reached 93% +/- 6.7% of the opposite fingers. In group B, the data reached 86% +/- 14.4% of the opposite fingers. Based on total active motion scoring system, we obtained 21 excellent and 46 good results in group A; and 9 excellent, 50 good, and 5 fair results in group B. There was a significant difference with regards to the function of the fingers (p < 0.05). Conclusions: The bone-cement K-wire fixation may be another option for the treatment of shaft fractures of proximal phalanges. The minimally invasive technique allows early joint motion, resulting in minimal complications and good functional recovery.		[Zhang, Xu; Yu, Yadong; Shao, Xinzhong; Du, Wei] Hebei Med Univ, Hosp 3, Dept Hand Surg, Shijiazhuang 050051, Hebei, Peoples R China; [Dhawan, Vikas] Univ Kentucky, Dept Orthoped & Sports Med, Lexington, KY USA; [Shao, Xinzhong] Hebei Med Univ, Hosp 3, Dept Hand Surg, Shijiazhuang 050051, Hebei, Peoples R China								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466088200008	25	Article; Article		
J	Zwingmann, Lukas; Struett, Sarah; Martin, Agnes; Volmary, Prisca; Bloch, Wilhelm; Wahl, Patrick								Modifications of the Dmax method in comparison to the maximal lactate steady state in young male athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	2			174	181		10.1080/00913847.2018.1546103			APR 3 2019	2019	Objective: To investigate the influence of different approaches for first-rise determination on the accuracy of Dmax as an estimate of the maximal lactate steady state (MLSS). Methods: Seventeen male cyclists and 18 male runners with different levels of endurance performance completed graded exercise tests either on a cycle ergometer or treadmill to determine Dmax, calculated by the final data point and five modifications of the first rise in blood lactate concentration. Two or more constant load tests over 30 min were performed to determine MLSS. Differences between the modifications of the first rise in blood lactate concentration as well as the corresponding Dmax variants and MLSS were tested, using one-way repeated measure ANOVA with Bonferroni post-hoc tests, and illustrated, using the Bland-Altman method. The absolute agreement was observed, using intra-class correlation coefficients, based on a single measure, absolute agreement, 2-way mixed effects model. Results: The peak power output/running velocity of the groups averaged 275 +/- 43 W and 4.3 +/- 0.4 m center dot s(-1), respectively. The mean power output/running velocity at MLSS was 229 +/- 38 W and 3.77 +/- 0.38 m center dot s(-1). For both running and cycling the original Dmax described by Cheng et al. was significantly lower than MLSS (p < 0.01). All modifications showed good agreement with MLSS (ICC >= 0.75). According to the Bland-Altman method the mean differences of the modifications compared to MLSS in cycling ranged from -7 (43) to 2 (41) W. In running the mean differences ranged from -0.12 (0.34) to -0.08 (0.35) m center dot s(-1). Conclusion: We suggest using the first rise in blood lactate concentration for calculating Dmax instead of the first data point of a lactate curve as originally described. The approach of first rise determination has no substantial influence on the accuracy of Dmax compared to MLSS in cycling and running.		[Zwingmann, Lukas; Bloch, Wilhelm; Wahl, Patrick] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Cardiol & Sport Med, Dept Mol & Cellular Sport Med, Cologne, Germany; [Zwingmann, Lukas; Struett, Sarah; Martin, Agnes; Volmary, Prisca; Bloch, Wilhelm; Wahl, Patrick] German Sport Univ Cologne, German Res Ctr Elite Sport Cologne, Cologne, Germany; [Struett, Sarah] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Cardiol & Sport Med, Dept Prevent & Rehabil Sport Med, Cologne, Germany; [Zwingmann, Lukas] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Cardiol & Sport Med, Sportpk Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								21							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466088200006	34	Article; Article		
J	Sugimoto, Dai; Jackson, Sarah S.; Howell, David R.; Meehan, William P., III; Stracciolini, Andrea								Association between training volume and lower extremity overuse injuries in young female athletes: implications for early sports specialization								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	2			199	204		10.1080/00913847.2018.1546107			APR 3 2019	2019	Background: Recent studies indicated greater risk of overuse injuries among young female athletes than their male counterparts. However, few studies have focused on female athletes and the effect of single-sport participation on lower extremity overuse injuries. Objective: The objective of this study is to identify an independent risk variable for lower extremity overuse injuries based on status of sport participations (single- and multisports) in young female athletes. Methods: In this cross-sectional study, 12-18-year-old female athletes were asked to complete electronic questionnaires describing their current sport participation and previous injury history. Range of motion (ROM), muscular strength, and performance parameters were measured at the time of completion of electronic questionnaires. Potential risk variables were compared between single- and multisport athletes and entered into a logistic regression model. Adjusted odds ratio (aOR), 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs), and p values were recorded to find an association with increased likelihood of lower extremity overuse injuries. Results: The study cohort comprised 236 female young athletes (single-sport athletes: N = 60, multisport athletes: N = 176). A few variables including age, BMI, weekly hours of training for a sport, knee ROM, ankle ROM, and knee extensor strength were identified as potential risk variables. A logistic regression analysis showed an independent association between increased weekly hours of training for a sport and greater likelihood of histories of lower extremity overuse injuries (aOR = 1.091, 95% CIs: 1.007-1.183, p = .034). Conclusion: Although status of single- or multisports participation was not a significant risk variable, increased training volume was found to be an independent contributing factor for greater likelihood of lower extremity overuse injury histories in 12-18 years female athletes. The current study identified that single-sport athletes trained nearly twice as many hours per week when compared to multisport athletes, which may explain an underlying mechanism of sports specialization.		[Sugimoto, Dai; Jackson, Sarah S.; Howell, David R.; Meehan, William P., III; Stracciolini, Andrea] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Jackson, Sarah S.; Meehan, William P., III; Stracciolini, Andrea] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Jackson, Sarah S.; Meehan, William P., III; Stracciolini, Andrea] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Jackson, Sarah S.; Stracciolini, Andrea] Boston Childrens Hosp, Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, 9 Hope Ave,Suite 100, Waltham, MA 02453 USA								29							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466088200009	31	Article; Article		
J	Zuckerman, Scott L.; Kerr, Zachary Y.; Pierpoint, Lauren; Kirby, Paul; Than, Khoi D.; Wilson, Thomas J.								An 11-year analysis of peripheral nerve injuries in high school sports								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	2			167	173		10.1080/00913847.2018.1544453			APR 3 2019	2019	Introduction: Sports surveillance databases provide valuable information regarding common ailments, yet fewer studies have focused on more rare peripheral nerve injuries. Our objective was to characterize peripheral nerve injuries in high school athletics with respect to incidence, time loss, mechanism, and diagnoses. Methods: Sport-related nerve injury data on high school athletes were collected during the 2005/2006 through 2015/2016 academic years via the High School Reporting Information Online (RIO) database. All injuries were reported by certified athletic trainers (ATs). Descriptive statistics were performed. Results: A total of 588 peripheral nerve injuries were recorded during the 2005/06-2015/16 academic years, with an overall incidence of 1.46/100,000 athlete-exposures (AE; 95%CI: 1.34, 1.58). Boys' football had the majority of injuries (71.3%) and the highest injury rate (5.46/100,000AE; 95%CI: 4.93, 5.98), followed by boys' wrestling (7.1%) and boys' baseball (3.4%). Over half (50.3%) of peripheral nerve injuries resulted in time loss < 1 week, while 9.4% resulting in the athletes prematurely ending their seasons. The most common mechanisms were player contact (67.3%), overuse (10.0%), and surface contact (9.7%). A specific diagnosis was available for 40 (6.8%) injuries, including upper extremity stinger (n = 26), spinal cord neurapraxia (n = 3), subacromial nerve impingement (n = 2) neuroma (n = 2), axillary nerve palsy (n = 1), sciatic nerve impingement (n = 1), femoral nerve impingement (n = 1), tarsal tunnel syndrome (n = 1), peroneal neuropathy (n = 1), thoracic outlet syndrome (n = 1), and ulnar nerve subluxation (n = 1). Discussion: Recognized peripheral nerve injuries are rare among high school athletes, occurring most commonly in boys' football. While most are minor, approximately 1:10 were season-ending. Specific diagnoses were available for 7% of injuries, with upper extremity stingers being the most commonly reported diagnosis. Working with ATs to identify and implement methods to obtain more specific diagnostic information via surveillance will help researchers better understand the epidemiology of peripheral nerve injuries.		[Zuckerman, Scott L.; Kirby, Paul] Vanderbilt Univ, Med Ctr, Vanderbilt Sports Concuss Ctr, Nashville, TN 37212 USA; [Zuckerman, Scott L.] Vanderbilt Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Neurol Surg, Med Ctr North T-4224, Nashville, TN 37212 USA; [Kerr, Zachary Y.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Pierpoint, Lauren] Univ Colorado Anschutz, Colorado Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Epidemiol, Aurora, CO USA; [Than, Khoi D.] Oregon Hlth & Sci Univ, Dept Neurol Surg, Portland, OR 97201 USA; [Wilson, Thomas J.] Stanford Univ, Dept Neurol Surg, Stanford, CA 94305 USA; [Zuckerman, Scott L.] Vanderbilt Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Neurol Surg, Med Ctr North T-4224, Nashville, TN 37212 USA								11							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466088200005	40	Article; Article		
J	Marshall, Cameron M.; Chan, Nicole; Tran, Pauline; DeMatteo, Carol								The use of an intensive physical exertion test as a final return to play measure in concussed athletes: a prospective cohort								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	2			158	166		10.1080/00913847.2018.1542258			APR 3 2019	2019	Objectives: To examine the utility of a novel physical exertion test developed by the Chicago Blackhawks medical staff as a final return to play (RTP) clearance test in youth and young adult athletes, and to determine the relationship between participant and test variables on RTP within asymptomatic athletes diagnosed with concussion. Methods: Once asymptomatic and following completion of all RTP steps, concussed athletes underwent the Gapski-Goodman Test (GGT) or modified GGT (mGGT) at partnered Complete Concussion Management Inc. (CCMI) clinics as part of RTP decision-making. Prospective data was collected electronically by trained CCMI clinicians utilizing the CCMI Concussion Database System. A review was conducted to examine data collected between January 2016 and February 2017. Participant and test variables were analyzed to determine relationships with pass/fail rate of the GGT/mGGT. Results: A total of 759 athletes performed the GGT/mGGT in the study period. Although all asymptomatic, 14.6% of concussed athletes failed the GGT/mGGT while attempting to achieve RTP clearance. Statistically significant relationships were found between failure of the test and symptom severity score on initial presentation and self-reported history of pre-morbid anxiety. When taken together, sex, age, and pre-morbid anxiety significantly predicted the length of time between injury and RTP clearance. Conclusion: The GGT may identify individuals who are not ready to RTP despite a self-reported asymptomatic status and completion of all RTP steps. These results illustrate that RTP clearance decisions based on self-reported asymptomatic status at rest may be inadequate. Instead, monitored, intensive, sport-specific, physical exertion testing should be utilized to inform clinical RTP decisions.		[Marshall, Cameron M.] Complete Concuss Management Inc, Dept Res, 2655 Bristol Circle, Oakville, ON L6H 7W1, Canada; [Chan, Nicole; Tran, Pauline; DeMatteo, Carol] McMaster Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Rehabil Sci, Inst Appl Hlth Sci, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Marshall, Cameron M.] Complete Concuss Management Inc, Dept Res, 2655 Bristol Circle, Oakville, ON L6H 7W1, Canada								26							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466088200004	33	Article; Article		
J	Jeffreys, Ian								The Warm-up: A Behavioral Solution to the Challenge of Initiating a Long-Term Athlete Development Program								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			52	56		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000466			APR 2019	2019	LONG-TERM ATHLETE DEVELOPMENT (LTAD) IS NOT LACKING MODELS AND DATA-DRIVEN ARGUMENTS, BUT PROGRESS IS STILL LIMITED. INSIGHTS INTO BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE OUTLINE THAT CHANGES TO PRACTICE MAY BE EASIER TO ATTAIN WHEN THEY ARE EASY TO APPLY AND DO NOT OVERTLY ALTER CURRENT PRACTICES. THIS ARTICLE OUTLINES HOW RETHINKING WARM-UPS USING A PRACTICAL BEHAVIORAL APPROACH CAN PROVIDE A SIMPLE, FLEXIBLE BUT EFFECTIVE WAY IN WHICH TO INTEGRATE LTAD INTO ANY PROGRAM.		[Jeffreys, Ian] Univ South Wales, Dept Sport & Profess Practice, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Jeffreys, Ian] Univ South Wales, Dept Sport & Profess Practice, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300009	15	Article; Article		
J	Schary, David P.								Servants in the Weight Room: Coaches Using Servant Leadership to Improve Student-Athlete Well-being								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			25	30		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000347			APR 2019	2019	THE CURRENT STUDENT-ATHLETE EXPERIENCE IS DEMANDING; STUDENT-ATHLETES REGULARLY FACE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND SOCIOCULTURAL STRESSORS THAT NEGATIVELY AFFECT THEIR WELL-BEING. TO HELP IMPROVE STUDENT-ATHLETE WELL-BEING, THIS ARTICLE PROPOSES STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING COACHES ADOPT SERVANT LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES. SERVANT LEADERS ARE STRONG AND SELF-ASSURED. THEY PRIORITIZE THE NEEDS OF OTHERS. THE ARTICLE BEGINS WITH A REVIEW OF WELL-BEING AND ITS RELATION TO SPORT. NEXT, SERVANT LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES ARE INTRODUCED AS A WAY TO INCREASE STUDENT-ATHLETE WELL-BEING. THE ARTICLE CONCLUDES WITH 3 PRACTICAL STRATEGIES TO INCORPORATE SERVANT LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES INTO STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING.		[Schary, David P.] Winthrop Univ, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Human Performance, Rock Hill, SC 29733 USA; [Schary, David P.] Winthrop Univ, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Human Performance, Rock Hill, SC 29733 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300005	36	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Valerie; Moore, E. Whitney G.								Strategies to Increase Athletes' Transformational Leadership Behaviors During Strength and Conditioning Sessions								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			31	37		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000422			APR 2019	2019	OFTEN, LEADERSHIP IS PRESUMED TO NATURALLY RESULT FROM ATHLETIC EXPERIENCES. HOWEVER, LEADERSHIP BEHAVIORS REQUIRE PRACTICE. STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING COACHES (SCCS) CAN PROVIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL ATHLETES TO PRACTICE TRANSFORMATIONAL LEADERSHIP BEHAVIORS, WHICH CAN INCREASE TEAM COHESION AND PERFORMANCE. THIS ARTICLE REVIEWS ATHLETE LEADERSHIP, INCLUDING LEADERSHIP ROLES AND 4 TRANSFORMATIONAL LEADERSHIP BEHAVIORS (IDEALIZED INFLUENCE, INSPIRATIONAL MOTIVATION, INDIVIDUALIZED CONSIDERATION, AND INTELLECTUAL STIMULATION). THEN, DAILY STRATEGIES SCCS CAN INCORPORATE INTO TRAINING TO FOSTER ATHLETES' TRANSFORMATIONAL LEADER-SHIP ARE PRESENTED FOLLOWED BY STRATEGIES FOR LARGER, ROTATING LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCES. THESE STRATEGIES CAN WORK WITH ATHLETES ACROSS AGE, SEX, AND COMPETITIVE LEVEL.		[Smith, Valerie; Moore, E. Whitney G.] Wayne State Univ, Div Kinesiol Hlth & Sport Studies, Detroit, MI 48202 USA; [Moore, E. Whitney G.] Wayne State Univ, Div Kinesiol Hlth & Sport Studies, Detroit, MI 48202 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300006	34	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Anthony N.; Bishop, Chris; Cree, Jon; Carr, Paul; McCann, Andy; Bartholomew, Brett; Halsted, Laurence								Building a High-Performance Model for Sport: A Human Development-Centered Approach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			100	107		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000447			APR 2019	2019	ALL TEAMS SHOULD AIM TO DEVELOP A HUMAN DEVELOPMENT-CENTERED HIGH-PERFORMANCE MODEL FOR SPORT (HPMS). A MODEL CAN UNITE A TEAM TOWARD A SHARED VISION, ACTING AS A CLEAR SIGN OF WHY THE PERFORMANCE PROGRAM EXISTS, AND WHY ATHLETES SHOULD TRUST THEIR CAREERS IN THEM. IT ALSO RECOGNIZES THE MERITS OF AN ANALYTICAL APPROACH TO ESTABLISHING A TRAINING SYSTEM, THEREBY ENSURING OBJECTIVITY AND BEST PRACTICE. FINALLY, THE MODEL CAN SUPPORT AND PROMOTE A HOLISTIC, WHOLE PERSON-CENTERED APPROACH, WHERE THE PURSUIT OF SPORTING ACCOLADES IS BALANCED AGAINST THE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING OF ITS PARTICIPANTS. THE AIM OF THIS ARTICLE IS TO ASSIST THE READER IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF A HPMS.		[Turner, Anthony N.; Bishop, Chris; Cree, Jon] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sports Inst, London, England; [Carr, Paul] UK Mil, London, England; [McCann, Andy] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Fac Hlth Psychol & Social Care, Dept Psychol, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Bartholomew, Brett] Bridge Human Performance, Santa Cruz, CA USA; [Bartholomew, Brett] Art Coaching, Santa Cruz, CA USA; [Halsted, Laurence] Danish Fencing Federat, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Turner, Anthony N.] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sports Inst, London, England								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300013	29	Article; Article		
J	Moore, E. Whitney G.; Quartiroli, Alessandro; Zakrajsek, Rebecca; Eckenrod, Morgan								Increasing Collegiate Strength and Conditioning Coaches' Communication of Training Performance and Process Goals With Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			18	24		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000467			APR 2019	2019	THIS ARTICLE PRESENTS INFORMATION ABOUT GOAL SETTING AND HOW STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING COACHES (SCCS) CAN INCORPORATE GOAL SETTING STRATEGIES IN THEIR ATHLETES' TRAINING. THE ARTICLE PRESENTS AN OVERVIEW OF OUTCOME, PERFORMANCE, AND PROCESS GOALS, BASED ON THE SPECIFIC, MEASURABLE, AGGRESSIVE YET ACHIEVABLE, RELEVANT, AND TIME-BOUND (SMAART) FRAMEWORK. STRATEGIES SCCs CAN USE ARE PRESENTED TO ILLUSTRATE HOW TO INCREASE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PERFORMANCE AND PROCESS GOALS THAT INFORMED THE PROGRAM PERIODIZATION AND FEEDBACK PROVIDED BY THE SCC. THIS ARTICLE AIMS TO START BRIDGING THE GAP BETWEEN SCC FAMILIARITY WITH GOAL SETTING AND INCORPORATION OF THIS MENTAL STRATEGY INTO THEIR COMMUNICATION WITH ATHLETES ABOUT TRAINING.		[Moore, E. Whitney G.] Wayne State Univ, Div Kinesiol Hlth & Sports Studies, Detroit, MI 48202 USA; [Quartiroli, Alessandro] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Psychol, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Zakrajsek, Rebecca; Eckenrod, Morgan] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sports Studies, Knoxville, TN USA; [Moore, E. Whitney G.] Wayne State Univ, Div Kinesiol Hlth & Sports Studies, Detroit, MI 48202 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300004	24	Article; Article		
J	Peterson, Gretchen								Developing an Awareness of Emotion Management Strategies to Support Athlete Success								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			3	7		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000438			APR 2019	2019	EMOTIONS ARE A REGULAR FEATURE OF OUR DAILY LIVES, INCLUDING THE LIVES OF ATHLETES. IT IS ALSO QUITE COMMON TO HAVE TO WORK TO MANAGE SOME OF OUR EMOTIONS. EMOTIONS THAT ARE NOT MANAGED CAN IMPACT ATHLETIC SUCCESS, SO IT BEHOOVES ATHLETES TO TRAIN TO DEAL WITH THE EMOTIONS THAT INEVITABLY ARISE DURING COMPETITION. STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING COACHES CAN BENEFIT FROM UNDERSTANDING THE FACETS OF AN EMOTIONAL EXPERIENCE AND SOME OF THE TECHNIQUES FOR MANAGING THE EMOTIONAL EXPERIENCE. THIS ARTICLE LAYS THE GROUNDWORK FOR STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING COACHES TO USE RESEARCH FROM THE SOCIOLOGY OF EMOTIONS IN WORKING WITH ATHLETES.		[Peterson, Gretchen] Univ Memphis, Dept Sociol, Memphis, TN 38152 USA; [Peterson, Gretchen] Univ Memphis, Dept Sociol, Memphis, TN 38152 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300002	17	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, Abigail; Meador, Melanie; Bodamer, Meghan; Langford, Emily; Snarr, Ronald L.								Exercise Technique: Handstand Push-up								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			119	123		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000427			APR 2019	2019	THIS COLUMN PROVIDES A DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPER EXERCISE TECHNIQUE FOR THE HANDSTAND PUSH-UP. THIS DYNAMIC EXERCISE INCORPORATES COMPONENTS OF 3 KEY MOVEMENTS (I.E., HANDSTAND, SHOULDER PRESS, AND PUSH-UP) DESIGNED TO INCREASE STRENGTH, ENDURANCE, AND STABILITY IN THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. THIS EXERCISE CAN PROVIDE BENEFITS TO ATHLETES INVOLVED IN GYMNASTICS, ACROBATICS, OR THOSE REQUIRING UPPER-BODY BALANCE AND STABILIZATION. THUS, PRACTITIONERS SHOULD CONSIDER THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE HANDSTAND PUSH-UP INTO AN EXERCISE REGIMEN.		[Johnson, Abigail; Meador, Melanie; Bodamer, Meghan; Langford, Emily; Snarr, Ronald L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA; [Snarr, Ronald L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA 30458 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300015	16	Article; Article		
J	Howard, Rick; Eisenmann, Joey C.; Moreno, Anthony								Summary: The National Strength and Conditioning Association Position Statement on Long-Term Athletic Development								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			124	126		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000451			APR 2019	2019	LONG-TERM ATHLETIC DEVELOPMENT (LTAD) IS A CRADLE-TO-GRAVE FRAMEWORK FOR PROVIDING DEVELOPMENTALLY APPROPRIATE PHYSICAL, PSYCHOSOCIAL, TECHNICAL, AND TACTICAL ELEMENTS OF SPORTS PARTICIPATION AND PHYSICAL ACTIVITY. LTAD SHOULD PROMOTE THE DEVELOPMENT OF GENERAL ATHLETICISM TO ENHANCE PHYSICAL LITERACY, MINIMIZE INJURY RISK, AND FOSTER LIFETIME HEALTH AND WELLNESS. MISSING FROM PREVIOUS MODELS OF LTAD IS THE CRITICAL NEED FOR DEVELOPMENTAL GUIDANCE ON THE PHYSICAL COMPONENT OF TRAINING YOUTH. THE NATIONAL STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING ASSOCIATION (NSCA) POSITION STATEMENT ON LTAD ADDRESSES THE PHYSICAL COMPONENT OF TRAINING YOUTH TO PROMOTE PHYSICAL LITERACY.		[Howard, Rick] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA 19383 USA; [Eisenmann, Joey C.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Carnegie Sch Sports, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Moreno, Anthony] Eastern Michigan Univ, Sch Hlth Promot & Human Performance, Ypsilanti, MI 48197 USA; [Howard, Rick] West Chester Univ, Dept Kinesiol, W Chester, PA 19383 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300016	2	Article; Article		
J	Jeffreys, Ian								Rethinking Long-Term Athlete Development-A Behavioral Approach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			46	51		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000424			APR 2019	2019	DESPITE NUMEROUS MODELS AND ARTICLES OUTLINING ITS POTENTIAL, LONG TERM ATHLETIC DEVELOPMENT (LTAD) IS STILL TO ATTAIN A POSITION WHERE IT IS A UNIFYING APPROACH IN YOUTH SPORT PROGRAMS. DESPITE ISOLATED CASES OF SUCCESS, THE SYSTEMATIC APPLICATION OF LTAD REMAINS ELUSIVE-CLEARLY SOMETHING IS AWRY. AS THE APPLICATION OF LTAD REQUIRES BEHAVIOR CHANGE, IT IS IMPORTANT THAT THIS PERSPECTIVE IS WOVEN INTO LTAD APPROACHES. THIS ARTICLE WILL EXAMINE SOME FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES DRAWN FROM BEHAVIORAL SCIENCES AND APPLY THESE TO THE QUEST TO ENHANCE THE APPLICATION OF LTAD IN THE REAL WORLD.		[Jeffreys, Ian] Univ South Wales, Sch Hlth Sport & Profess Practice, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Jeffreys, Ian] Univ South Wales, Sch Hlth Sport & Profess Practice, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300008	16	Article; Article		
J	Gillham, Andy; Doscher, Michael								Using Sport Psychology Research to Address Commonly Overlooked Strength and Conditioning Coaching Problems								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			38	45		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000411			APR 2019	2019	IMPROVING COACHING EFFECTIVENESS FOR STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING COACHES GOES BEYOND THE COACH KNOWLEDGE AREA OF PROGRAM DESIGN. MANY FACTORS GO INTO DETERMINING WHAT EFFECTIVE COACHING LOOKS LIKE AND SOME OF THOSE FACTORS ARE NOT TYPICALLY INCLUDED WITHIN A STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING COACH'S FORMAL ACADEMIC COURSEWORK. THE PURPOSE OF THIS ARTICLE IS TO CONSIDER PSYCHOSOCIAL RESEARCH-GUIDED SOLUTIONS TO COMMON CHALLENGES FACED BY THE CONTEMPORARY STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING COACH.		[Gillham, Andy] Owner Ludus Consulting LLC, Sioux Falls, SD 57106 USA; [Doscher, Michael] Valdosta State Univ, Valdosta, GA USA; [Gillham, Andy] Owner Ludus Consulting LLC, Sioux Falls, SD 57106 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300007	38	Article; Article		
J	Harris, Dale M.; Foulds, Steven; Latella, Christopher								Evidence-Based Training Recommendations for the Elite Judoka								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			108	118		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000426			APR 2019	2019	THERE IS A PAUCITY OF SPORT-SPECIFIC EVIDENCE REGARDING STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING STRATEGIES TO IMPROVE ELITE JUDO ATHLETES' (EJA) PERFORMANCE. THEREFORE, THE AIM OF THIS ARTICLE IS TO EVALUATE THE CURRENT LITERATURE AND PRESENT EVIDENCE-BASED TRAINING RECOMMENDATIONS FOR EJA. BASED ON THE SPORT-SPECIFIC DEMANDS, APPROPRIATELY SEQUENCED PERIODIZED STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING PROGRAMS THAT INCLUDE (a) HEAVY STRENGTH TRAINING, (b) POWER TRAINING (i.e., CONTRAST LOADING, CLUSTER SETS, WEIGHTLIFTING, AND PLYOMETRIC EXERCISES), AND (c) HIGH-INTENSITY INTERVAL TRAINING MAY PROVIDE SUFFICIENT STIMULI TO IMPROVE UPPER-AND LOWER-BODY STRENGTH, AEROBIC AND ANAEROBIC POWER FOR EJA.		[Harris, Dale M.] IIS, High Performance Ctr, Vijaynagar, Bellary, India; [Foulds, Steven] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Geelong, Vic, Australia; [Latella, Christopher] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, CESSR, Joondalup, Australia; [Harris, Dale M.] IIS, High Performance Ctr, Vijaynagar, Bellary, India								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300014	52	Article; Article		
J	Szedlak, Christoph; Callary, Bettina; Smith, Matthew J.								Exploring the Influence and Practical Development of Coaches' Psychosocial Behaviors in Strength and Conditioning								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			8	17		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000421			APR 2019	2019	RESEARCH SUGGESTS THAT PSYCHOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS AND SOCIAL BEHAVIORS (E.G., COGNITIVE, PERSONAL, BEHAVIORAL, AND ETHICAL COMPETENCIES) CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COACHING EFFECTIVENESS AND AS SUCH SHOULD NOT BE NEGLECTED BY STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING (S&C) COACHES. THIS REVIEW EXAMINES THE CURRENT LITERATURE ON THE INFLUENCE OF PSYCHOSOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS AND BEHAVIORS OF THE S&C COACH ON ELITE ATHLETE DEVELOPMENT. IN ADDITION, THIS REVIEW PROVIDES PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS AND GUIDELINES TO COACH DEVELOPERS AND COACH PRACTITIONERS TO DEVELOP SUCH PSYCHOSOCIAL BEHAVIORS USING CONSTRUCTIVIST LEARNING THEORIES IN RELATION TO REFLECTION, STORIES, MENTORSHIPS, AND INTERNSHIPS.		[Szedlak, Christoph] Univ Southampton, Dept Sport & Wellbeing, Southampton, Hants, England; [Callary, Bettina] Cape Breton Univ, Dept Community Studies Sport & Phys Act Leadershi, Sydney, NS, Canada; [Smith, Matthew J.] Univ Chichester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Chichester, England; [Szedlak, Christoph] Univ Southampton, Dept Sport & Wellbeing, Southampton, Hants, England								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300003	107	Article; Article		
J	Santana, Felipe; Fellingham, Gilbert; Rangel, Wellington; Ugrinowitsch, Carlos; Lamas, Leonardo								Assessing basketball offensive structure: The role of concatenations in space creation dynamics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	2			179	189		10.1177/1747954118825068			APR 2019	2019	The aims of the present study were to systematize a set of concatenated space creation dynamics in basketball and to use it to analyze teams' offenses. Space creation dynamics concatenation concept was investigated and classes were defined. Modeling resulted in independent and dependent concatenations' classes. Agreement was at least 0.85 for all space creation dynamics classes. Afterwards, space creation dynamics classes were applied to match analysis. Analytic procedures encompassed both the frequency and types of space creation dynamics in ball possessions. The four best teams on the 2013-2014 NBA season were evaluated. The Thunder had more ball possessions with a single space creation dynamics than expected, while the Spurs had longer sequences than expected with four or more dependent concatenations. Interestingly, the Heat and the Thunder had the highest number of dependent concatenated space creation dynamics two steps ahead of the outcome. Additionally, the Heat was the team with greatest diversity of space creation dynamics and the highest frequency of dependent concatenations one step before the outcome. Results indicated that the analytical framework efficiently discriminated teams' strategies. The concatenation concept helped elucidating how teams approach defensive disruption, with more straight or progressive space creation and concatenated space creation dynamics performed one or two steps before the outcome.		[Santana, Felipe; Ugrinowitsch, Carlos] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Fellingham, Gilbert] Brigham Young Univ, Dept Stat, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Rangel, Wellington; Lamas, Leonardo] Univ Brasilia, Fac Phys Educ, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Lamas, Leonardo] Univ Brasilia, Fac Phys Educ, Lab Sports Performance Anal LADESP, Darcy Ribeiro Campus, Brasilia, DF, Brazil								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000463226200007	23	Article; Article		
J	Pankow, Kurtis; Tamminen, Katherine A.; Camire, Martin; MacDonald, Dany J.; Strachan, Leisha; Holt, Nicholas L.								Types of evidence used in Canadian provincial sport organisations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	2			162	168		10.1177/1747954119825804			APR 2019	2019	Different types of evidence can be used to inform organisational decision making. The purpose of this study was to identify types of evidence used in sport organisations. Data were collected via interviews with 60 Canadian Provincial Sport Organisation representatives from five provinces. A qualitative description approach was used and data were subjected to an inductive-to-deductive thematic analysis procedure, with the deductive component guided by a classification of evidence types. Results demonstrated that knowledge and information (reported by 38 participants) and ideas and interests (28 participants) were the most frequently reported evidence types, whereas research (12 participants), political (2 participants), and economic (12 participants) evidence types were least frequently reported. These findings suggest that sport science researchers could communicate in the form of, and through mediums dedicated to, knowledge and information and ideas and interests in order to reach sport organisations.		[Pankow, Kurtis; Holt, Nicholas L.] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, 1-106 Univ Hall, Edmonton, AB T6G 2R3, Canada; [Tamminen, Katherine A.] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Camire, Martin] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [MacDonald, Dany J.] Univ Prince Edward Isl, Dept Appl Human Sci, Charlottetown, PE, Canada; [Strachan, Leisha] Univ Manitoba, Fac Kinesiol & Recreat Management, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Pankow, Kurtis] Univ Alberta, Fac Kinesiol Sport & Recreat, 1-106 Univ Hall, Edmonton, AB T6G 2R3, Canada								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000463226200005	33	Article; Article		
J	Fernandes, Tiago; Camerino, Oleguer; Garganta, Julio; Pereira, Rogerio; Barreira, Daniel								Design and validation of an observational instrument for defence in soccer based on the Dynamical Systems Theory								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	2			138	152		10.1177/1747954119827283			APR 2019	2019	The research about soccer defensive phase shows many limitations regarding the procedures and operational definitions. The aims of this paper are to create an observational instrument based on Dynamic Systems concepts and evidence sufficient content validity to adequately and reliably recode defensive soccer behaviours. For these, a five-stage development process for validity was followed: (1) an initial literature review, instrument development, observation training; (2) adapting an existing systematic observational instrument; (3) pilot study with non-experts; (4) content validity with experts (coaches and researchers) and (5) inter- and intra-observer reliability. Using Aiken's V coefficient and its cut-off value to determine validity content, consensus was found (V > 0.67, n = 32, p < 0.05) for all items answered by participants in pilot study and for almost all subjects in the experts' study (V > 0.69, n = 12, p < 0.05). Also, Cohen's Kappa shows inter- and intra-reliability values of 0.87 and 0.90, respectively. The final model, entitled Theoretical Dynamic Model of Soccer Defence, and the observational instrument, named Soccer-Defence, with 14 criteria and category systems, and 106 categories, seems to be suitable for analysing the defensive process in soccer and could be used to find strengths or weaknesses of tactical-technical defensive patterns of play and to help coaches to better prepare their teams.		[Fernandes, Tiago; Garganta, Julio; Pereira, Rogerio; Barreira, Daniel] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Porto, Portugal; [Camerino, Oleguer] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Lleida, Spain; [Camerino, Oleguer] Univ Lleida, Lleida Inst Biomed Res, Dr Pifarre Fdn IRBLLEIDA, Lleida, Spain; [Fernandes, Tiago] Rua Dr Placido Costa 91, P-4200450 Porto, Portugal								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000463226200003	51	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Manuel; Morgan, Kevin								Developing creative team games players: From jazz to sport coaching								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	2			117	125		10.1177/1747954119834397			APR 2019	2019	Traditional coaching methods position coaches at the centre of the learning process and do not encourage players to think creatively. This study challenged this assertion, through the application of pedagogical principles reported in jazz-related literature, which argue that creativity is best developed through collaboration. As such, the study aimed to develop players' creativity, through the application of pedagogical principles reported in jazz-related literature. An action research design was implemented, during a 14-weeks period, with a youth volleyball squad. Results demonstrated an impact upon match play; players showed their enhanced appreciation of the game's complexity, by experimenting, collaborating, and generating creative solutions to challenges emerging within matches. In addition, the implementation of collaborative practices positively impacted upon the players' communication habits, which were both more frequent and effective. Although players demonstrated a similar modus operandi to jazz musicians, this study represents the first step in what coaches can learn from jazz creativity, and therefore further research is required to corroborate or challenge the results attained.		[Santos, Manuel; Morgan, Kevin] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Santos, Manuel] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cyncoed Rd,Cyncoed Campus, Cardiff CF23 6XD, S Glam, Wales								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000463226200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Tierney, Gregory J.; Gildea, Kevin; Krosshaug, Tron; Simms, Ciaran K.								Analysis of ball carrier head motion during a rugby union tackle without direct head contact: A case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	2			190	196		10.1177/1747954119833477			APR 2019	2019	Rugby union players can be involved in many tackles per game. However, little is known of the regular head loading environment associated with tackling in rugby union. In particular, the magnitude and influencing factors for head kinematics during the tackle are poorly understood. Accordingly, the goal of this study was to measure head motion of a visually unaware ball carrier during a real game tackle to the upper trunk with no direct head contact, and compare the kinematics with previously reported concussive events. Model-Based Image-Matching was utilised to measure ball carrier head linear and angular velocities. Ball carrier componential maximum change in head angular velocities of 38.1, 20.6 and 13.5 rad/s were measured for the head local X (coronal plane), Y (sagittal plane) and Z (transverse plane) axes respectively. The combination of a high legal tackle height configuration and visually unaware ball carrier can lead to kinematics similar to average values previously reported for concussive direct head impacts.		[Tierney, Gregory J.] Univ Leeds, Fac Biol Sci, Sch Biomed Sci, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Tierney, Gregory J.; Gildea, Kevin; Simms, Ciaran K.] Trinity Coll Dublin, Trinity Ctr Bioengn, Dublin, Ireland; [Krosshaug, Tron] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Oslo, Norway; [Tierney, Gregory J.] Univ Leeds, Fac Biol Sci, Sch Biomed Sci, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000463226200008	38	Article; Article		
J	Plant, Emily J.; Stowe, C. Jill								Is Moneyball Relevant on the Racetrack? A New Approach to Evaluating Future Racehorses								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	3			428	447		10.1177/1527002518777977			APR 2019	2019	The market for racehorses is volatile and inefficient, and the ability to identify and exploit undervalued characteristics which predict performance can be profitable. In this article, we evaluate whether quantitative measures of physical structure and movement can help predict racing success and whether these measures are appropriately valued by the market. We discover an interesting dynamic: One measure predicting late racing development is a significant predictor of career earnings but is not valued by the auction market; a different measure predicting early racing development is valued by the marketplace but does not predict career earnings.		[Plant, Emily J.] Univ Montana, Sch Business Adm, Missoula, MT 59812 USA; [Stowe, C. Jill] Univ Kentucky, Dept Agr Econ, 307 CE Barnhart, Lexington, KY 40546 USA; [Stowe, C. Jill] Univ Kentucky, Dept Agr Econ, 307 CE Barnhart, Lexington, KY 40546 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000460281800006	17	Article; Article		
J	Goetsch, Andreas; Salzmann, Christian								The Impact of Contest Dynamics on Ex Post Doping Audits								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	3			411	427		10.1177/1527002518777976			APR 2019	2019	In this article, we introduce competition between athletes to the model of ex post doping audits by Goetsch and Salzmann. We determine the doping minimizing storing and retesting strategy for a doping agency in a competitive setting between two athletes. We demonstrate that for the doping agency, there is only one doping minimizing strategy depending on the number of athletes. Even though the athletes' doping decision is influenced by the contest, counterintuitively, the agency's strategy is neither influenced by the prize of the contest nor by its balance or any other contest dynamics.		[Goetsch, Andreas; Salzmann, Christian] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Management & Econ, Univ Str 150, D-44801 Bochum, Germany; [Salzmann, Christian] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Management & Econ, Univ Str 150, D-44801 Bochum, Germany								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000460281800005	14	Article; Article		
J	Brook, Stacey L.								Estimating the Determinants of NCAA Athletic Department Intellectual Property (Trademark) Rights								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	3			399	410		10.1177/1527002518784000			APR 2019	2019	Nike Inc. recently signed a trademark-licensing contract with the University of Michigan for nearly US$174 million over 11 years for the rights to be the supplier of athletic apparel and to use the university's intellectual property (trademark) rights. The focus of this article is to empirically investigate the determinants for trademark-licensing contract values using athletic apparel contract data among NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision schools.		[Brook, Stacey L.] Depaul Univ, Dept Econ, 1 E Jackson Blvd, Chicago, IL 60604 USA; [Brook, Stacey L.] Depaul Univ, Dept Econ, 1 E Jackson Blvd, Chicago, IL 60604 USA								2							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000460281800004	17	Article; Article		
J	Comfort, Paul; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Beckham, George K.; Stone, Michael H.; Guppy, Stuart N.; Haff, G. Gregory								Standardization and Methodological Considerations for the Isometric Midthigh Pull								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	2			57	79		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000433			APR 2019	2019	THE ISOMETRIC MIDTHIGH PULL (IMTP) IS COMMONLY USED TO ASSESS AN ATHLETE'S FORCE GENERATION ABILITY. THIS TEST IS HIGHLY RELIABLE AND IS SIMPLE AND RELATIVELY QUICK TO PERFORM. THE DATA THAT CAN BE DETERMINED FROM THE FORCE-TIME CURVES GENERATED BY THE TEST HAVE BEEN SHOWN TO BE CLOSELY RELATED TO PERFORMANCE CAPACITIES IN A VARIETY OF DYNAMIC ATHLETIC TASKS. HOWEVER, WITHIN THE SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE, THERE ARE INCONSISTENCIES IN THE DATA COLLECTION PROCEDURES AND METHODS USED FOR DATA ANALYSIS THAT MAY IMPACT THE RESULTANT OUTPUT AND THE ABILITY TO COMPARE AND GENERALIZE RESULTS. THEREFORE, THE PRIMARY AIM OF THIS REVIEW IS TO IDENTIFY THE DIFFERENCES IN IMTP TESTING PROCEDURES AND DATA ANALYSIS TECHNIQUES, WHEREAS IDENTIFYING THE POTENTIAL IMPACT THIS MAY HAVE ON THE DATA COLLECTED. THE SECONDARY AIM IS TO PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE STANDARDIZATION OF TESTING PROCEDURES TO ENSURE THAT FUTURE IMTP DATA ARE OF MAXIMAL BENEFIT TO PRACTITIONERS AND RESEARCHERS.		[Comfort, Paul; Dos'Santos, Thomas; Haff, G. Gregory] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Beckham, George K.] Calif State Univ, Kinesiol Dept, Seaside, CA USA; [Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Ctr Excellence Sport Sci & Coach Educ, Johnson City, TN USA; [Guppy, Stuart N.; Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Greater Manches, England								256							Sport Sciences	WOS:000480694300010	73	Article; Article		
J	Mesagno, Christopher; Garvey, Jacob; Tibbert, Stephanie J.; Groepel, Peter								An Investigation Into Handedness and Choking Under Pressure in Sport								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			217	226		10.1080/02701367.2019.1588935			APR 3 2019	2019	When athletes fail to perform at an expected level during an important moment, it is implied the athletes have experienced "choking" (sudden decline in performance) under pressure.". Researchers have reported that persistent left-hemispheric activation patterns occur when an athlete experiences considerable performance deteriorations under pressure. Researchers have also observed differences in brain activation patterns between left- and right-handed people on a variety of physical and cognitive tests, with the left-hemispheric activation more pronounced in right-handed participants. Purpose: The purpose of this study was to investigate whether athletes' handedness may be linked to choking susceptibility (i.e., likelihood to experience performance decline under pressure). Method: Twenty right-handed and 13 left-handed experienced Australian football players completed 15 shot attempts, in both a low-pressure and a high-pressure condition. Both groups displayed equal state anxiety increases due to the pressure manipulation, indicating similar increases in anxiety in both handedness groups. Results: Differences were indicated in performance between the left- and right-handed groups during the high-pressure condition, with the left-handed group maintaining, and the right-handed participants declining, performance. Conclusion: Future electroencephalogram (EEG) research investigating this link may clarify the effect between handedness and choking.		[Mesagno, Christopher; Garvey, Jacob; Tibbert, Stephanie J.] Federat Univ Australia, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Groepel, Peter] Univ Vienna, Vienna, Austria; [Mesagno, Christopher] Federat Univ Australia, Sch Hlth & Life Sci, POB 663, Ballarat, Vic 3353, Australia								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465799300001	36	Article; Article		
J	Augustemak de Lima, Luiz Rodrigo; Santos Silva, Diego Augusto; do Nascimento Salvador, Paulo Cesar; Souza Alves Junior, Carlos Alencar; Martins, Priscila Custodio; Chula de Castro, Joao Antonio; Antonacci Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme; Petroski, Edio Luiz								Prediction of peak (V)over dot O<sub>2</sub> in Children and Adolescents With HIV From an Incremental Cycle Ergometer Test								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			163	171		10.1080/02701367.2019.1571676			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: To examine the capacity of physiological variables and performance to predict peak oxygen consumption (peak (V) over dot O-2) in children and adolescents living with HIV. Method: Sixty-five children and adolescents living with HIV (30 boys) aged 8-15 years, participated in the study. Peak (V) over dot O-2 was measured by breath-by-breath respiratory exchange during an incremental cycle ergometer until volitional exhaustion. Information on the time to exhaustion, maximal power output (Pmax), and peak heart rate (peak HR) were also recorded. Results: Predictive models were developed and all equations showed the ability of performance variables to predict peak (V) over dot O-2. However, Model 1 was based only on Pmax by following equation: Y = 338.8302 + (Pmax [W] * 11.16435), R-2 = 0.90 and standard error of estimation (SEE) = 180 ml.min(-1). Conclusion: The (V) over dot O-2 peak can be predicted simply by the Pmax obtained from the incremental cycle ergometer test. This protocol is a valid and useful tool for monitoring the aerobic fitness of children and adolescents living with HIV, especially in resource-limited settings.		[Augustemak de Lima, Luiz Rodrigo; Santos Silva, Diego Augusto; do Nascimento Salvador, Paulo Cesar; Souza Alves Junior, Carlos Alencar; Martins, Priscila Custodio; Chula de Castro, Joao Antonio; Antonacci Guglielmo, Luiz Guilherme; Petroski, Edio Luiz] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Augustemak de Lima, Luiz Rodrigo] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Res Ctr Kinanthropometry & Human Performance, Campus Univ, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000465807000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Petridis, Leonidas; Utczas, Katinka; Troznai, Zsofia; Kalabiska, Irina; Palinkas, Gergely; Szabo, Tamas								Vertical Jump Performance in Hungarian Male Elite Junior Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	2			251	257		10.1080/02701367.2019.1588934			APR 3 2019	2019	Purpose: Vertical jump is a common test to measure impulsive ability in soccer; however, limited normative data have been published on young soccer players from vertical jump measurements on a force platform. The purpose of this study was to provide normative values for three chronological age groups of male junior soccer players (U16, U17 and, U18 years). Method: Vertical jump performance of 365 soccer players (16.4 +/- 0.8 years) was assessed using a force platform measurement system. Net impulse, force, power, jump height (impulse-momentum), jump height (flight time) were reported for each age group for squat jump (SJ) and countermovement jump (CMJ). Results: Mean values +/- SD of jump height were 32.9 +/- 4.1, 33.5 +/- 4.0, and 33.9 +/- 4.2 cm for the three age groups respectively in SJ and 36.3 +/- 3.8, 37.5 +/- 3.9, and 38.6 +/- 4.4 cm in the CMJ. Mean values of all age groups for maximum force and maximum power were 1559 +/- 211 N and 3261 +/- 492 watt respectively for SJ and 1598 +/- 241 N and 3287 +/- 502 watt for CMJ. Based on descriptive data, percentiles were reported for all examined variables. Conclusions: Jump height and relative values were less sensitive discriminator variables between age groups in the studied age range, while maximum impulse, maximum force, and maximum power were more sensitive to changes in maturational status. Normative values can be used by the coaches in the interpretation and evaluation of their athletes' performance and for training and talent identification purposes.		[Petridis, Leonidas; Utczas, Katinka; Troznai, Zsofia; Kalabiska, Irina; Palinkas, Gergely; Szabo, Tamas] Univ Phys Educ Budapest, Budapest, Hungary; [Petridis, Leonidas] Univ Phys Educ Budapest, Sport Sci & Diagnost Lab, Alkotas Ut 44, H-1123 Budapest, Hungary								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000463402600001	35	Article; Article		
J	Kipp, Kristof; Krzyszkowski, John; Heeneman, Jordi								Hip moment and knee power eccentric utilisation ratios determine lower-extremity stretch-shortening cycle performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1579854				2019	The eccentric utilisation ratio (EUR) is calculated as the ratio between countermovement jump (CMJ) and squat jump (SJ) heights, and is an indicator of lower-extremity stretch-shortening cycle (SSC) performance in athletes. Joint-based EUR can also be calculated but have never been reported. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether jump height-based (JH-based) EUR can be predicted by joint-specific EUR. Nine NCAA Division I college athletes (age: 21 +/- 1 year, height: 1.75 +/- 0.15 m, mass: 71 +/- 20 kg) performed three SJ and CMJ. During all jumps, kinematic and kinetic data were obtained and used to calculate hip, knee and ankle net joint moments (NJM) and net joint powers (NJP). JH was calculated from pelvis marker data. EUR (CMJ/SJ [unitless]) were calculated for JH, NJM, and NJP. JH-EUR was 1.11 +/- 0.70. NJM-EUR were 1.07 +/- 0.17, 1.17 +/- 0.25, and 1.07 +/- 0.18 for the hip, knee and ankle joint, respectively. NJP-EUR were 1.41 +/- 0.12, 1.26 +/- 0.28 and 1.06 +/- 0.11 for the hip, knee and ankle joint, respectively. Regularised regression showed that Hip-NJM-EUR, Knee-NJP-EUR and Ankle-NJM-EUR were able to predict 83% of the variance in JH-EUR, which suggests that the enhancement of lower-extremity SSC performance during CMJ arises from a combination of these parameters.		[Kipp, Kristof; Krzyszkowski, John; Heeneman, Jordi] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Coll Hlth Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Program Exercise Sci, Coll Hlth Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000464357600001	23	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Hollis, Christina R.; Koldenhoven, Rachel M.; Resch, Jacob E.; Hertel, Jay								Running biomechanics as measured by wearable sensors: effects of speed and surface								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS											10.1080/14763141.2019.1579366				2019	Running biomechanics research has traditionally occurred in the laboratory, but with the advent of wearable sensors measurement of running biomechanics may shift outside the laboratory. The purpose was to determine if RunScribe (TM) wearable sensors could detect differences in kinematic, kinetic and spatiotemporal measures during runs at two speeds and on two different surfaces. Fifteen recreational runners (7 males, 8 females; age = 20.0 +/- 3.1 years) participated. While wearing sensors on the heels of their shoes, participants completed four 1600 m runs on both track and grass surfaces. On each surface, the first 1600 m was at a self-selected slow speed followed by the second 1600 m at a self-selected fast pace. The sensors quantified several kinetic, kinematic and spatiotemporal measures. Repeated measures ANOVAs compared the effects of surface and speed. The spatiotemporal measures of stride length, cycle time and contact time were predictably affected by increased running speed and increased surface stiffness, as were the kinematic and kinetic measurements of maximum pronation velocity, maximum pronation excursion, impact g, and braking g (p < 0.050). The RunScribe (TM) sensors identified expected changes in running biomechanics measures at different speeds and on varying surfaces.		[Hollis, Christina R.] Bentley Univ, Dept Athlet, Waltham, MA 02452 USA; [Koldenhoven, Rachel M.; Resch, Jacob E.; Hertel, Jay] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Hertel, Jay] Univ Virginia, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA								59							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000470605700001	17	Article; Early Access; Article; Early Access		
J	Walker, Cherie; Warmenhoven, John; Sinclair, Peter J.; Cobley, Stephen								The application of inertial measurement units and functional principal component analysis to evaluate movement in the forward 31/2 pike somersault springboard dive								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	2			146	162		10.1080/14763141.2019.1574887			MAR 4 2019	2019	Based on technological and analytical advances, the capability to more accurately and finitely examine biomechanical and skill characteristics of movement has improved. The purpose of this study was to use Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs) and Functional Principal Components Analysis (fPCA) to examine the role of movement variability (assessed via angular velocity), on 2 divers (1 international level; 1 national) performing the forward 31/2 pike somersault dive. Analysis of angular velocity curves during ive-flight identified 5 fPCs, accounting for 96.5% of movement variability. The national diver's scatter plots and standard deviation of fPC scores illustrated larger magnitudes of angular velocity variability across dive flight. For fPC1 and fPC3, magnitudes of SD variability were 282.6 and 201.5, respectively. The international diver illustrated more consistent angular velocity profiles, with clustering of fPCs scores (e.g., fPC1 & 3 = SD's of 75.2 & 68.0). To account for lower variability in the international diver, the ability to better coordinate movement sequences and functionally utilise feedback in response to initiation of the somersault position is highlighted. Overall, findings highlight how both IMUs and fPCA can more holistically and finitely examine the biomechanical and skill characteristics of movement sequences with the capability to inform athlete development.		[Walker, Cherie; Warmenhoven, John; Sinclair, Peter J.; Cobley, Stephen] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Lidcombe, Australia; [Walker, Cherie] New Sorth Wales Inst Sport, Appl Res Program, Sydney Olympic Pk, NSW, Australia; [Cobley, Stephen] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Lidcombe, Australia								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466583100003	42	Article; Article		
J	Sado, Natsuki; Yoshioka, Shinsuke; Fukashiro, Senshi								The sidestep cutting manoeuvre requires exertion of lumbosacral lateral flexion torque to avoid excessive pelvic obliquity								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	2			135	145		10.1080/14763141.2019.1572780			MAR 4 2019	2019	During sidestep cutting, the pelvis is supported only on one side; this affects the athlete's posture. This study investigated the mechanism to avoid excessive pelvic obliquity during sidestep cutting. Ten physically active men performed sidestep cutting with maximal effort, and we captured the kinematics and kinetics with force platforms and an eight-camera motion capture system. Our results indicated that the stance hip exerted little abduction torque; however, lumbosacral lateral flexion torque was exerted towards the free-leg side (peak value: 3.39 +/- 0.91 N m/kg). Although bilateral hip joint forces acted to drop the free-leg side of the pelvis, the net torque around pelvic elevation/drop axis was nearly zero during the entire stance phase and the change in the angular momentum around the pelvic elevation/drop axis from touchdown to toe-off was negligible (-0.004 +/- 0.003 N m s/kg). The integrated components of lateral flexor for elevating the free-leg side of the pelvis (0.220 +/- 0.072 N m s/kg) were significantly larger than any other integrated components, which were all negligible (<0.010 N m s/kg). Thus, sidestep cutting requires the lumbosacral lateral flexion torque exertion to neutralise the passive action that drops the free-leg side of the pelvis.		[Sado, Natsuki; Yoshioka, Shinsuke; Fukashiro, Senshi] Univ Tokyo, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Sado, Natsuki] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Sado, Natsuki] Univ Tokyo, Dept Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Sado, Natsuki] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466583100002	28	Article; Article		
J	Widenhoefer, Tricia Lee; Miller, Taylor Matthew; Weigand, Mark Steven; Watkins, Emily Ann; Almonroeder, Thomas Gus								Training rugby athletes with an external attentional focus promotes more automatic adaptions in landing forces								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	2			163	173		10.1080/14763141.2019.1584237			MAR 4 2019	2019	Training to reduce landing forces is a common component of anterior cruciate ligament injury prevention programmes. The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of training incorporating instructions promoting an internal versus external attentional focus on landing forces in adolescent rugby athletes. Twenty-two rugby athletes were randomly allocated to groups that received instructions promoting an internal versus an external focus during a two week training programme. Landing forces were recorded before and after completion of the programme. During follow-up testing, landings were performed with and without a secondary cognitive task. Both groups exhibited a similar reduction in landing forces following training for trials performed without the secondary cognitive task. However, the groups responded differently when the secondary cognitive task was imposed. Athletes who were trained with an internal focus demonstrated a prominent increase in landing forces for trials that included the secondary cognitive task (vs. trials performed without the secondary cognitive task), whereas the secondary cognitive task had minimal influence for athletes who were trained with an external focus. It appears that training with an external focus may promote adaptations in landing mechanics that can be implemented more automatically.		[Widenhoefer, Tricia Lee; Miller, Taylor Matthew; Weigand, Mark Steven; Watkins, Emily Ann; Almonroeder, Thomas Gus] Trine Univ, Rinker Ross Sch Hlth Sci, Ft Wayne, IN 46825 USA; [Almonroeder, Thomas Gus] Trine Univ, Rinker Ross Sch Hlth Sci, Ft Wayne, IN 46825 USA								25							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466583100004	50	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Benjamin Kane; Sanders, Ross H.; Ryu, Joong Hyun; Bourdon, Pitre C.; Graham-Smith, Philip; Sinclair, Peter J.								Static and dynamic accuracy of a magnetic-inertial measurement unit used to provide racket swing kinematics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	2			202	214		10.1080/14763141.2017.1391326			MAR 4 2019	2019	Magnetic-inertial measurement units (MIMUs) are becoming more prevalent in sports biomechanics and may be a viable tool to evaluate kinematic parameters. This study examined the accuracy of a MIMU to estimate orientation angles under static conditions and dynamically from a squash racket during a forehand drive shot. A MIMU was mounted onto a goniometer and moved through 0-90 degrees, with static data collected at 10 degrees increments during 10 repetitions of all three axes. Typical error analyses showed the MIMU to be very reliable (TE <= 0.03 degrees). MIMU accuracy was determined via intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) (r > 0.999, p < 0.001). An ordinary least products regression showed no proportional bias and minimal fixed bias for all axes. Dynamic accuracy was assessed by comparing MIMU and optical motion capture data of squash racket swing kinematics. A MIMU was fixed onto a racket and 10 participants each hit 10 forehand shots. Mean orientation angle error at ball impact was <0.50 degrees and ICC showed very high correlations (r >= 0.988, p < 0.001) for all orientations. Swing phase root mean squared errors were <= 2.20 degrees. These results indicate that a MIMU could be used to accurately and reliably estimate selected racket swing kinematics.		[Williams, Benjamin Kane; Ryu, Joong Hyun; Bourdon, Pitre C.; Graham-Smith, Philip] Aspire Acad, Sport Sci Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Williams, Benjamin Kane; Sanders, Ross H.; Sinclair, Peter J.] Univ Sydney, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Bourdon, Pitre C.] Univ South Australia, Sch Hlth Sci, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Graham-Smith, Philip] Univ Canberra, UC Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Williams, Benjamin Kane] Aspire Acad, Sport Sci Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Williams, Benjamin Kane] Univ Sydney, Discipline Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466583100007	32	Article; Article		
J	Weich, Christian; Jensen, Randall L.; Vieten, Manfred								Triathlon transition study: quantifying differences in running movement pattern and precision after bike-run transition								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	2			215	228		10.1080/14763141.2017.1391324			MAR 4 2019	2019	Various publications discuss the discrepancies of running in triathlons and stand-alone runs. However, those methods, such as analysing step-characteristics or ground-contact time, lack the ability to quantitatively discriminate between subtle running differences. The attractor method can be applied to overcome those shortcomings. The purpose was to detect differences in athletes' running patterns (delta M) and movement precision (delta D) by comparing a 5,000 m run after a prior cycling session (TRun) with an isolated run over the same distance (IRun). Participants completed the conditions on a track and a stationary trainer, allowing the use of their personal bike to simulate an Olympic triathlon. During each run, three-dimensional acceleration data, using sensors attached to the ankles, were collected. Results showed that both conditions lead to elevated attractor parameters (delta M and delta D) over the initial five minutes before the athletes found their rhythm. This generates a new perspective because independent of running after a bike session or without preload, an athlete needs certain time to adjust to the running movement. Coaches must consider this factor as another tool to fine-tune pacing and performance. Moreover, the attractor method is a novel approach to gain deeper insight into human cyclic motions in athletic contexts.		[Weich, Christian; Vieten, Manfred] Univ Constance, Dept Sports Sci, Constance, Germany; [Jensen, Randall L.] Northern Michigan Univ, Dept Hlth Phys Educ & Recreat, Marquette, MI USA; [Weich, Christian] Univ Constance, Dept Sports Sci, Constance, Germany								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466583100008	40	Article; Article		
J	Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo; Farinas, Juan; Mayo, Xian; Santos, Luis; Jaric, Slobodan								Comparison of different regression models to fit the force-velocity relationship of a knee extension exercise								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	2			174	189		10.1080/14763141.2018.1442873			MAR 4 2019	2019	The aims of this study were to compare the goodness of fit and the concurrent validity of three regression models of the force-velocity relationship in a unilateral knee extension exercise. The force-velocity relationship and the one-repetition-maximum load in the dominant and non-dominant leg were obtained in 24 male sports sciences students by a progressive protocol. Additionally, the maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) of the knee extensor muscles was recorded. Individual force-velocity relationships were obtained by the linear, quadratic polynomial and exponential regression models. Although the adjusted coefficients of determination of all three models were high, the polynomial model's coefficient was slightly but significantly higher than the rest of the models (p < 0.05), while the standard error of estimate was slightly higher for the linear than for polynomial model (p = 0.001). MVC was underestimated by F-0 calculated from the linear and polynomial models, while the maximum power was accurately estimated by the linear model. In summary, while the polynomial model revealed somewhat better fit, the linear model more accurately estimates the maximum power and provides the parameters of apparent physiological meaning. Therefore, we recommend using the linear model in research and routine testing of mechanical capacities of knee extensors.		[Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo; Farinas, Juan; Mayo, Xian; Santos, Luis] Univ A Coruna, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, La Coruna, Spain; [Mayo, Xian] King Juan Carlos Univ, Ctr Sport Studies, Act & Hlth Lifestyle Observ, Madrid, Spain; [Santos, Luis] Univ Oviedo, Univ Sch Sports Med, Oviedo, Spain; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, NJ USA; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Biomech & Movement Sci Grad Program, Newark, NJ USA; [Iglesias-Soler, Eliseo] Univ A Coruna, Fac Sports Sci & Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, La Coruna, Spain								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000466583100005	36	Article; Article		
J	Kubo, Yoshiaki; Watanabe, Kohei; Nakazato, Koichi; Koyama, Koji; Hakkaku, Takayoshi; Kemuriyama, Shoya; Suzuki, Masakazu; Hiranuma, Kenji								The Effect of a Previous Strain Injury on Regional Neuromuscular Activation Within the Rectus Femoris								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			89	97		10.2478/hukin-2018-0066			MAR 2019	2019	The rectus femoris (RF) has a region-specific functional role; that is, the proximal region of the RF contributes more than the middle and distal regions during hip flexion. This study aimed to investigate whether RF strain injury affected the region-specific functional role of the muscle. We studied seven soccer players with a history of unilateral RF strain injury. Injury data were obtained from a questionnaire survey and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Multichannel surface electromyographic (SEMG) signals were recorded from the proximal to distal regions of the RF with 24 electrodes during isometric knee extension and hip flexion. The SEMG signals of each channel during hip flexion were normalised by those during knee extension for the injured and non-injured RF (HF/KE), and compared among the proximal, middle, and distal regions. Six RF strain injuries showed a low signal area in MRI. There was no significant difference in muscle strength between the injured and non-injured RF. While the HF/KE in the proximal region was significantly higher than those in the middle and distal regions in the non-injured RF, a difference in the HF/KE was seen only between the proximal and distal regions of the injured RF. Furthermore, the HF/KE of the most proximal channel in the injured RF was significantly lower than that in the non-injured RF. However, there was no significant difference between injured and non-injured areas in the HF/KE. Our findings suggest that the region-specific functional role of the RF muscle is partly affected by RF strain injury.		[Kubo, Yoshiaki; Nakazato, Koichi; Hiranuma, Kenji] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Grad Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Kubo, Yoshiaki; Koyama, Koji] Tokyo Ariake Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Watanabe, Kohei] Chukyo Univ, Lab Neuromuscular Biomech, Sch Int Liberal Studies, Aichi, Japan; [Hakkaku, Takayoshi; Suzuki, Masakazu] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Kemuriyama, Shoya] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Fac Human Care, Tokyo, Japan; [Kubo, Yoshiaki] Tokyo Ariake Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Koto Ku, 2-9-1 Ariake, Tokyo 1350063, Japan								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700009	29	Article; Article		
J	Mazzilli, Facundo								Body Height and Swimming Performance in 50 and 100 m Freestyle Olympic and World Championship Swimming Events: 1908-2016								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			205	213		10.2478/hukin-2018-0068			MAR 2019	2019	There are scattered data showing an increase in the height of Olympic and World Championships swimmers. To identify a possible historical trend, a study of the height of 50 and 100 m freestyle medalists at the Olympic Games and the World Championships between 1908 and 2016 was undertaken. 370 swimmers (186 men and 184 women) were studied. A progressive increase in the height of men's medalists (r = 0.49, p < 0.001) was detected. With regard to women's medalists, an increase (r = 0.383, p < 0.01) was also found. To provide a sort of confirmation of this trend, a separate analysis of swimmers achieving new official swimming records, not included in the initial design of the study, was undertaken and a similar and also significant trend was seen in this case in both male and female athletes. This study confirms and greatly expands the observation of other authors, and raises the question of whether the increase in the stature of elite swimmers is simply a reflection of the increase in height of the general population or whether other factors, such as a possible role of training, should be considered. The ethical aspects of an early selection of swimmers perhaps based on the genetic profile of youngsters deserves careful consideration.		[Mazzilli, Facundo] SportFit, Santa Teresa 25, Sant Cugat Del Valles 08172, Spain; [Mazzilli, Facundo] SportFit, Santa Teresa 25, Sant Cugat Del Valles 08172, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700020	27	Article; Article		
J	Kobal, Ronaldo; Pereira, Lucas A.; Kitamura, Katia; Paulo, Anderson C.; Ramos, Henrique A.; Carmo, Everton C.; Roschel, Hamilton; Tricoli, Valmor; Bishop, Chris; Loturco, Irineu								Post-Activation Potentiation: Is there an Optimal Training Volume and Intensity to Induce Improvements in Vertical Jump Ability in Highly-Trained Subjects?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			195	203		10.2478/hukin-2018-0071			MAR 2019	2019	The aim of this study was to compare the acute effects of performing half squats (HSs) with different loading intensities (1, 3, and 5 repetitions maximum IRMJ, and 60% 1RM) and a different number of sets (1, 2, and 3) on the countermovement jump (CMJ) performance of 18 highly-trained male subjects. Participants were submitted to four experimental conditions (1RM, 3RM, 5RM, and 60% 1RM) in randomized order. The CMJ was assessed before and after each set. Differences in CMJ performance between the distinct experimental conditions and individual responses in CMJ performance induced by the different protocols were analyzed via the magnitude-based inference method. Overall, significant improvements were detected in individual CMJ heights after each activation protocol. It can be concluded that the use of 1 to 3 sets of HSs performed at moderate-to-high loads may be an effective strategy to improve jump performance in highly-trained subjects. Nevertheless, despite the high efficiency of the protocols tested here, coaches and researchers are strongly encouraged to perform individualized assessments within the proposed range of loads and sets, to find optimal and tailored post-activation potentiation protocols.		[Kobal, Ronaldo; Pereira, Lucas A.; Kitamura, Katia; Loturco, Irineu] NAR, Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Paulo, Anderson C.] Fed Technol Univ Parana, Acad Dept Phys Educ, Parana, Brazil; [Ramos, Henrique A.; Roschel, Hamilton; Tricoli, Valmor] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Carmo, Everton C.] Senac Univ Ctr, Phys Educ, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sports Inst, London, England; [Loturco, Irineu] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Human Movement Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport Sao Paulo, Av Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								27							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700019	34	Article; Article		
J	Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Owen, Adam; Serra-Olivares, Jaime; Nikolaidis, Pantelis Theodoros; van der Linden, Cornelis M., I; Mendes, Bruno								Characterization of the Weekly External Load Profile of Professional Soccer Teams From Portugal and the Netherlands								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			155	164		10.2478/hukin-2018-0054			MAR 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to analyze the day-to-day variance of a typical weekly external training workload of two professional soccer teams from different countries. Twenty-nine players from two professional teams from Portugal and the Netherlands participated in this study. The players' external load was monitored for 7 weeks, by means of portable GPS devices (10 Hz, JOHAN, Noordwijk, Netherlands). Results revealed that match day-1 (MD-1), i.e. the training day before a match, had significantly (p = 0.001) less training volume (4584.50 m) than the other days. MD-5 (training five days before a match), MD-4 (four days before a match) and MD-3 (three days before a match) were the most intense (390.83, 176.90 and 247.32 m of sprinting distance, respectively) and with large volume (7062.66, 6077.30 and 6919.49 m, respectively). Interestingly, significant differences were found between clubs of different countries (p < 0.05) with the Portuguese team showing significantly higher intensity (sprinting distance) and volume (total distance) in all days with exception of MD-1 than the Dutch team. The results of this study possibly allow for the identification of different training workloads and tapering strategies between countries in relation to volume and intensity. It should be noted, however, that both clubs used a significant tapering phase in the last two days before the competition in an attempt to reduce residual fatigue accumulation.		[Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Viana Do castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Lisbon, Portugal; [Owen, Adam] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Ctr Rech & Innovat Sport, Lyon, France; [Owen, Adam; Mendes, Bruno] Benf Lab, Sport Lisboa & Benf, Lisbon, Portugal; [Serra-Olivares, Jaime] Catholic Univ Temuco, Fac Educ, Pedag Phys Educ, Temuco, Chile; [Nikolaidis, Pantelis Theodoros] Exercise Physiol Lab, Nikaia, Greece; [van der Linden, Cornelis M., I] JOHAN Sports, Dept Sport Sci, Hoofddorp, Netherlands; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Complexo Desport & Lazer Melgaco Monte Prado, P-4960320 Melgaco, Portugal								88							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700015	39	Article; Article		
J	Moir, Gavin L.; Getz, Aaron; Davis, Shala E.; Marques, Mario; Witmer, Chad A.								The Inter-Session Reliability of Isometric Force-Time Variables and the Effects of Filtering and Starting Force								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			43	55		10.2478/hukin-2018-0049			MAR 2019	2019	The purposes of the present study were to assess the inter-session reliability of force-time variables recorded during isometric back squats and also to assess the effects of applying a filter to the data prior to analysis and assess the effects of different starting force thresholds on the force-time variables. Eleven resistance trained men (age: 22.5 +/- 1.9 years; body mass: 90.3 +/- 13.5 kg) attended two sessions where they performed isometric squats on force plates allowing the determination of force-time variables of maximal isometric force (Fmax) and different measures of the rate of force development (RFD). The force-time variables were calculated from both raw and filtered force signals. The start of the force application was determined using force thresholds of 1% or 5% of body mass (BM). Inter-session reliability for the force-time measures was assessed by calculating the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and the coefficient of variation (CV) of the measures. The ICC and CV ranged from 0.03 to 0.96 and 4.6 to 168%, respectively. The application of the filter significantly reduced Fmax and peak RFD (p < 0.004) and increased the reliability of the peak RFD. The use of the 5% BM threshold increased the magnitude of many of the RFD measures (p < 0.004) and resulted in slight improvements in the reliability of these measures although the resulting temporal shift in the force-time signal would preclude accurate assessment of the early phase of the RFD (< 100 ms). The use of a 1% BM starting force threshold without a filter is recommended when using the isometric back squat protocol presented here. Furthermore, the RFD calculated within specific time intervals is recommended.		[Moir, Gavin L.; Getz, Aaron; Davis, Shala E.; Witmer, Chad A.] East Stroudsburg Univ, Exercise Sci Dept, Koehler Fieldhouse, East Stroudsburg, PA 18301 USA; [Marques, Mario] Univ Beira Interior, Sport Sci Dept, Covilha, Portugal; [Moir, Gavin L.] East Stroudsburg Univ, Exercise Sci Dept, Koehler Fieldhouse, East Stroudsburg, PA 18301 USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700005	36	Article; Article		
J	Janjic, Natasa; Kapor, Darko; Doder, Dragan; Savic, Igor								Evaluation of the Final Time and Velocity of a 100 m Run Under the Realistic Conditions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			19	29		10.2478/hukin-2018-0048			MAR 2019	2019	The aim of the research was to provide an analytical expression for the final time and velocity at the 100 m run, taking into account realistic conditions of the run, more precisely the effect of the wind and resistance of the medium (air). Combining the polynomial model for the distance vs time with the solution of the algebraic cubic equation, such an analytical expression was derived. The expression allowed to evaluate the dependence of the final time of the race on the wind velocity. This enabled the quantification of the time effect of the mentioned influences on the final time and velocity. It is possible to calculate the dependence of the sprinter's velocity on expired running time for various wind velocities (from 0 up to +/- 10 m/s) as well as determine the maximal running velocity v(max) and corresponding time moment t(max). The results obtained were verified using split time data for six top sprinters: C. Lewis, M. Green, U. Bolt and F. Griffith-Joyner, E. Ashford and H. Drechsler. The results confirmed that it was possible to quantify the time effect of the influence of the wind velocity and resistance of the medium on the final time of the 100 m run. Although the applicability of the approach was tested using the data concerning top sprinters, the mathematical expressions involved are simple enough to be used by any coach to estimate the results of a sprinter under various weather conditions.		[Janjic, Natasa] Univ Novi Sad, Fac Med, Orthopaed Surg & Traumatol Clin, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Kapor, Darko; Savic, Igor] Univ Novi Sad, Dept Phys, Fac Sci, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Doder, Dragan] Dept Sport & Sports Med Prov, Masarikova 25, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Doder, Dragan] Dept Sport & Sports Med Prov, Masarikova 25, Novi Sad, Serbia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700003	20	Article; Article		
J	Morales, Jose; Roman, Vicenc; Yanezi, Alexandre; Solana-Tramuntl, Monica; Alamo, Juan; Figuls, Anton								Physiological and Psychological Changes at the End of the Soccer Season in Elite Female Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			99	109		10.2478/hukin-2018-0051			MAR 2019	2019	This study compares and describes relationships among stress-recovery indices, the heart rate variability index, and the Cooper and Yo-Yo IR1 tests among female soccer players during the last six weeks of the competitive season. Sixteen female soccer players engaged in a pre-test of all of the variables. After having their training monitored for six weeks, a post-test was administered. The results revealed significant (p < 0.05) differences in the specific stress-recovery scales of the RESTQ-sport and in the frequency-domain variables of the HRV, although there were no significant differences in the general stress or general recovery scales. The Yo-Yo IR1 test, the Cooper test scores, and the means of the time-domain HRV variables did not exhibit any significant differences between the pre- and the post-test. The RMSSD variations exhibited very large and large correlations with the performance test and the RESTQ-sport variables, respectively. The variations in the HRV frequency-domain variables exhibited significant moderate and large correlations among the variations of the RESTQ-sport scales. Monitoring athletes at the end of the season may reveal contradictions between some variables. To help with the interpretation of these scales, some external aspects, such as athlete strain and monotony of training, should be considered.		[Morales, Jose; Yanezi, Alexandre; Solana-Tramuntl, Monica] Ramon Llull Univ, Fac Psychol Educ Sci & Sport Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Roman, Vicenc; Figuls, Anton] Generalitat Catalunya, Inst Francesc Macia, Dept Ensenyament, Barcelona, Spain; [Alamo, Juan] Univ Barcelona, Dept Physiol, Barcelona, Spain; [Morales, Jose] C Cister 34, Barcelona 08022, Spain								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700010	35	Article; Article		
J	Jukic, Ivan; Tufano, James J.								Shorter but More Frequent Rest Periods: No Effect on Velocity and Power Compared to Traditional Sets not Performed to Failure								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			257	268		10.2478/hukin-2018-0070			MAR 2019	2019	Performing traditional sets to failure is fatiguing, but redistributing total rest time to create short frequent sets lessens the fatigue. Since performing traditional sets to failure is not always warranted, we compared the effects of not-to-failure traditional sets and rest redistribution during free-weight back squats in twenty-six strength-trained men (28 +/- 5.44 y; 84.6 +/- 10.5 kg, 1RM-to-body-mass ratio of 1.82 +/- 0.33). They performed three sets of ten repetitions with 4 min inter-set rest (TS) and five sets of six repetitions with 2 min inter-set rest (RR6) at 70% of one repetition maximum. Mean velocity (p > 0.05; d = 0.10 (-0.35, 0.56)) and mean power (p > 0.05; d = 0.19 (-0.27, 0.64)) were not different between protocols, but the rating of perceived exertion (RPE) was less during RR6 (p < 0.05; d = 0.93 (0.44, 1.4W). Also, mean velocity and power output decreased (RR6: 14.10% and 10.95%; TS: 17.10% and 15.85%, respectively) from the first repetition to the last, but the percentage decrease was similar (velocity: p > 0.05; d = 0.16 (-0.30, 0.62); power: p > 0.05; d = 0.22 (-0.24, 0.68)). These data suggest that traditional sets and rest redistribution maintain velocity and power output to a similar degree when traditional sets are not performed to failure. However, rest redistribution might be advantageous as RR6 displayed a lower RPE.		[Jukic, Ivan] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Horvacanski Zavoj 15, Zagreb 10000, Croatia; [Jukic, Ivan] Sport Performance Training Ctr, Athlet Lab, Raleigh, NC USA; [Tufano, James J.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Jukic, Ivan] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Horvacanski Zavoj 15, Zagreb 10000, Croatia								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700025	36	Article; Article		
J	Kaviani, Mojtaba; Chilibeck, Philip D.; Jochimi, Jennifer; Gordon, Julianne; Zello, Gordon A.								The Glycemic Index of Sport Nutrition Bars Affects Performance and Metabolism During Cycling and Next-Day Recovery								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			69	79		10.2478/hukin-2018-0050			MAR 2019	2019	Low-glycemic index carbohydrates are potentially better for endurance performance as they result in greater fat oxidation and lower carbohydrate oxidation due to lower insulin release. We compared the effects of pre-exercise feeding with a low-glycemic index lentil-based sports nutrition bar, a commercially-available sports nutrition bar with moderate-glycemic index, and a non-caloric placebo on metabolism and performance during endurance cycling (Trial 1). Using a randomized, counterbalanced, crossover design, endurance-trained individuals (n = 11; eight males; 26 +/- 6y; VO2peak 51.4 +/- 1.6 mL/kg/min) consumed 1.5 g/kg available carbohydrate from a lentil bar and a moderate-glycemic index bar, as well as a placebo, 1h before endurance cycling (75 min at 65% VO2peak, followed by a 7 km time trial). We also compared post-exercise consumption of the low-glycemic index bar with another moderate-glycemic index bar on next-day exercise performance as an assessment of recovery (Trial 2). In Trial 1, fat or carbohydrate oxidation rates were not different between the bar conditions (p > 0.05). Blood lactate was lower during the low- versus the moderate-glycemic index condition after 75 minutes of cycling (2.6 versus 4.0 mmol/L, p < 0.05) and at the end of the time trial (7.4 versus 9.1 mmol/L, p < 0.05). Time trial performance improved (p < 0.05) after consumption of the low- (574 +/- 55 s) and moderate-glycemic index (583 +/- 59 s) bars compared to the placebo (619 +/- 81 s). In Trial 2 (next-day recovery), performance improved (p < 0.05) with the low-glycemic index bar (547 +/- 42 s) compared to the moderate-glycemic index bar (569 +/- 42 s) and the placebo (566 +/- 34 s). Low- and moderate-glycemic index sports nutrition bars improved cycling exercise performance; however, only the low-glycemic index bar improved next day performance.		[Kaviani, Mojtaba; Chilibeck, Philip D.; Jochimi, Jennifer; Gordon, Julianne] Univ Saskatchewan, Coll Kinesiol, 87 Campus Dr, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5B2, Canada; [Zello, Gordon A.] Univ Saskatchewan, Coll Pharm & Nutr, Saskatoon, SK S7N 2Z4, Canada; [Chilibeck, Philip D.] Univ Saskatchewan, Coll Kinesiol, 87 Campus Dr, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5B2, Canada								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700007	28	Article; Article		
J	Lopez-Rivera, Eva; Jose Gonzalez-Badillo, Juan								Comparison of the Effects of Three Hangboard Strength and Endurance Training Programs on Grip Endurance in Sport Climbers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			183	193		10.2478/hukin-2018-0057			MAR 2019	2019	Intermittent isometric endurance of the forearm flexors is a determinant factor of sport climbing performance. However, little is known about the best method to improve grip endurance in sport climbing regarding maximal or intermittent dead-hang training methods. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of three 8-week finger training programs using dead-hangs (maximal, intermittent, and a combination) on grip endurance. Twenty-six advanced sport climbers (7c+/8a mean climbing ability) were randomly distributed among three groups: maximal dead-hangs with maximal added weight on an 18 mm edge followed by MaxHangs on minimal edge depth; intermittent dead-hangs using the minimal edge depth, and a combination of both. The grip endurance gains and effect size were 34% and 0.6, respectively, for the group following maximal dead-hang training, 45% and 1, respectively, for the group following intermittent dead-hang training, and 7% and 0.1, respectively, for the group applying the combination of both training methods. Grip endurance increased significantly after 4 weeks in the group performing intermittent dead-hangs (p = 0.004) and after 8 weeks in both groups performing intermittent dead-hangs (p = 0.002) and MaxHangs (p = 0.010). The results suggest that the intermittent dead-hangs training method seems to be more effective for grip endurance development after eight week application in advanced sport-climbers. However, both methods, maximal and intermittent dead-hangs, could be alternated for longer training periods.		[Lopez-Rivera, Eva] Castilla La Mancha Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Avda Carlos III, Toledo 45004, Spain; [Jose Gonzalez-Badillo, Juan] Pablo Olavide Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Seville, Spain; [Lopez-Rivera, Eva] Castilla La Mancha Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Avda Carlos III, Toledo 45004, Spain								33							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700018	36	Article; Article		
J	Senna, Gilmar Weber; Willardson, Jeffrey Michael; Scudese, Estevao; Simao, Roberto; de Oliveira, Cristiano Queiroz; Lima, Jadson de Oliveira; Da Silva-Grigoletto, Marzo Edir; Martin Dantas, Estelio Henrique								Multi- to Single-Joint or the Reverse Exercise Order does not Affect Pectoralis Major Workout Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			224	232		10.2478/hukin-2018-0059			MAR 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to examine the acute effects of multi- to single-joint or the reverse exercise order on repetition performance and perceived exertion for the pectoralis major. Fourteen trained men (24.05 +/- 4.17 yrs, 78.85 +/- 3.51 kg, 175.42 +/- 4.01 cm) underwent two different training sequences (SEQ1 and SEQ2). In SEQ1, all subjects performed 5 sets for maximal repetitions, with a 2-min rest interval, of the bench press followed by the machine chest fly with 10 repetitions maximum load. In SEQ2, the same procedures were repeated, but with the reverse order. The t-test did not show any differences (p = 0.140) in total workout repetitions between SEQ1 (62.22 +/- 11.00 repetitions) and SEQ2 (55.40 +/- 8.51 repetitions). Conversely, the total repetition number for the bench press exercise was significantly greater (p = 0.001) following SEQ1 (34.36 +/- 4.68 repetitions) compared to SEQ2 (25.85 +/- 6.73 repetitions). In contrast, the total repetition number for the machine chest fly exercise following SEQ2 was significantly greater (p = 0.001) (33.50 + 4.11 repetitions) compared to SEQ1 (27.85 +/- 6.52 repetitions). Despite no significant differences found for the rating of perceived exertion (RPE) values between SEQ1 and SEQ2 for the barbell bench press in all sets (p >= 0.083), significantly higher RPE values for the machine chest fly were observed over the first three sets following SEQ1 compared to SEQ2 (p < 0.01). In conclusion, the total workout repetitions were not significantly different when performing the traditional multi- to single-joint or the reverse exercise order when training the pectoralis major muscle.		[Senna, Gilmar Weber; Scudese, Estevao; Martin Dantas, Estelio Henrique] Fed Univ State Rio de Janeiro UNIRIO, Nursing & Biosci Postgrad Program PPgEnfBio, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Senna, Gilmar Weber; Scudese, Estevao; Lima, Jadson de Oliveira; Martin Dantas, Estelio Henrique] Tiradentes Univ UNIT, Biosci Lab Human Movement LABIMH, Aracaju, Brazil; [Senna, Gilmar Weber; Scudese, Estevao; de Oliveira, Cristiano Queiroz] Univ Catolica Petropolis, Hlth Sci Ctr, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Willardson, Jeffrey Michael] Rocky Mt Coll, Hlth & Human Performance Dept, Billings, MT USA; [Simao, Roberto] Fed Univ Rio de Janeiro EEFD UFRJ, Sch Phys Educ & Sports, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Da Silva-Grigoletto, Marzo Edir] Univ Fed Sergipe, Sao Cristovao, Brazil; [Da Silva-Grigoletto, Marzo Edir] Sci Sport Assoc, Aracaju, Brazil; [Senna, Gilmar Weber] Fed Univ State Rio Janeiro UNIRIO, Xavier Sigaud St 290-301, BR-22290180 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700022	21	Article; Article		
J	Slimani, Maamer; Znazen, Hela; Miarka, Bianca; Bragazzi, Nicola Luigi								Maximum Oxygen Uptake of Male Soccer Players According to their Competitive Level, Playing Position and Age Group: Implication from a Network Meta-Analysis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			233	245		10.2478/hukin-2018-0060			MAR 2019	2019	The aim of the present meta-analysis was to compare the maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max) characteristics of male soccer players relative to their competitive level, playing position and age group and the interaction between them. The meta-analysis was based on 16 studies, employing 2385 soccer players aged 10-39 years. Higher-level soccer players showed greater (ES = 0.58 [95% CI 0.08-1.08], SE = 0.25, var = 0.06, z = 2.29, p = 0.022) VO2max performance with respect to their lower level counterparts. Furthermore, lower VO2max values in goalkeepers than defenders (ES = 1.31 (SE 0.46) [95% CI 0.41-2.21], var = 0.21, z = 2.84, p = 0.004) and midfielders (ES = 1.37 (SE 0.41) [95% CI 0.58 to 2.17], var = 0.16, z = 3.40, p = 0.001) were found. Thus, VO2max increased significantly with age (all, p < 0.01): Under 10 versus Under 11 years, Under 11 versus Under 12 years, Under 12 versus Under 13 years, Under 13 versus Under 14 years, Under 14 versus Under 15 years and Under 16-18 versus Under 20-23 years. VO2max performance is the most powerful discriminator between higher and lower-level soccer players. These findings indicate also the need for sports scientists and conditioning professionals to take the VO2max performance of soccer players into account when designing individualized position specific training programs.		[Slimani, Maamer; Znazen, Hela] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sport CNMSS, Res Lab Sport Performance Optimizat, El Menzah, Tunisia; [Znazen, Hela] Taif Univ, Fac Educ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, At Taif, Saudi Arabia; [Miarka, Bianca] Univ Fed Rio de Janeiro, Phys Educ & Sports Sch, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Bragazzi, Nicola Luigi] Genoa Univ, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Hlth Sci DISSAL, Genoa, Italy; [Bragazzi, Nicola Luigi] Genoa Univ, Dept Neurosci Rehabil Ophthalmol Genet Maternal &, Sect Psychiat, Genoa, Italy; [Slimani, Maamer] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sport CNMSS, Res Lab Sport Performance Optimizat, El Menzah, Tunisia								63							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700023	45	Article; Article		
J	Karatrantou, Konstantina; Gerodimos, Vassilis; Katsareli, Eleftheria; Manouras, Nikolaos; Ioakimidis, Panagiotis; Famisis, Konstantinos								Strength Profile of Hip Abductor and Abductor Muscles in Youth Elite Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			31	41		10.2478/hukin-2018-0069			MAR 2019	2019	The main objective of this study was to provide an extensive isokinetic profile of the hip joint in youth soccer players, where the literature is limited. Additionally, this study investigated the effect of age on isokinetic peak torque values of hip abductor and adductor muscles and on reciprocal muscle group torque ratios in youth soccer players at different angular velocities (30 vs. 90o/s) and muscle actions (concentric vs. eccentric). Sixty young elite male soccer players were assigned into three equal groups (n = 20): children, young adolescents and older adolescents, and performed five maximal concentric and eccentric hip-abductions and adductions at 30o/s and 90o/s. The results showed a significant increase (p < 0.05) in peak torque values from childhood to adolescence, with the exception of young adolescents vs. older adolescents where no differences were observed. The reciprocal ratios were not affected by age, but improved with an increase in angular velocity with the exception of the CON/ECC ratio that was higher at 30o/s. The data presented in this study provide an extensive isokinetic profile of hip abductor and adductor muscle strength in youth soccer players to assist both coaches and sports medicine professionals in strength monitoring and training.		[Karatrantou, Konstantina; Gerodimos, Vassilis; Manouras, Nikolaos; Ioakimidis, Panagiotis; Famisis, Konstantinos] Univ Thessaly, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Karies 42100, Trikala, Greece; [Katsareli, Eleftheria] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Thermi 57001, Greece; [Karatrantou, Konstantina] Univ Thessaly, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Karies 42100, Trikala, Greece								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700004	35	Article; Article		
J	Konefal, Marek; Chmura, Pawel; Zajac, Tomasz; Chmura, Jan; Kowalczuk, Edward; Andrzejewski, Marcin								A New Approach to the Analysis of Pitch-Positions in Professional Soccer								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			143	153		10.2478/hukin-2018-0067			MAR 2019	2019	The purpose of the study was to examine how various playing positions affected the number of (and percentage breakdowns for) physical and technical activities of soccer players in the Germany's Bundesliga. A further objective was to identify and present features distinguishing between the activities of players within the Defender, Midfielder and Forward formations. The study sample comprised 4426 individual match observations of 473 soccer players competing in the Bundesliga during the 2016/2017 domestic season. Data from the Impire AG motion analysis system, and the so-called "heat maps" it supplies, revealed areas in which players spent most time during a match, with 22 different playing positions on the pitch identified in consequence. Players in the formation comprising Defenders did not differ significantly in relation to the number of accelerations, the number of shots or the percentage of duels won. Furthermore, there were no significant differences among Midfielders in regard to total distance covered, mean running speed, the number of accelerations, the number of duels and the percentage of duels won. Likewise, Forwards did not differ in distances covered at >= 24 km/h, average running speed, the number of sprints, the number of shots, the proportion of on-target passes, the number of duels, or the percentage share of duels won. Irrespective of the formation or position on the pitch, today's game of soccer also pays great importance to the number of accelerations, as well as the number of duels engaged in, and their effectiveness.		[Konefal, Marek; Chmura, Jan] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Biol & Motor Sport Bases, Wroclaw, Poland; [Chmura, Pawel] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Team Games, Ul IJ Paderewskiego 35, Wroclaw, Poland; [Zajac, Tomasz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Performance Human Lab, Katowice, Poland; [Kowalczuk, Edward] Football Club, Hannover 96, Hannover, Germany; [Andrzejewski, Marcin] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Recreat, Poznan, Poland; [Chmura, Pawel] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Team Games, Ul IJ Paderewskiego 35, Wroclaw, Poland								39							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700014	32	Article; Article		
J	Nikolaidis, Pantelis T.; Rosemann, Thomas; Knechtle, Beat								The Differences in Pacing Among Age Groups of Amateur Cross-Country Skiers Depend on Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				66	1			165	173		10.2478/hukin-2018-0055			MAR 2019	2019	Pacing strategies have mainly been investigated for runners, but little is known for cross-country skiers. The aim of the present study was to examine the effects of performance and age on pacing strategies in cross-country skiing. All finishers (women, n = 19,375; men, n = 86,190) in the 'Engadin Ski Marathon' (42 km) between 1998 and 2016 were analysed for the percentage change of speed at 10 km (Change A), 20 km (Change B) and 35 km (Change C). They were classified in performance groups according to quartiles of average race speed (Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4) and in 5-year age groups (<20, 20-24, 25-29 ... 85-89 years). Men were faster than women by +14.3% (15.2 +/- 4.0 vs. 13.3 +/- 3.3 km/h; p < 0.001, eta 2 = 0.215). A small impact of age group x performance group interaction on Change A was shown in women (p < 0.001, eta 2 = 0.026) and men (p < 0.001, eta 2 = 0.025), where Q1 augmented and Q4 attenuated the decrease in speed with aging. However, the impact of age group x performance group interaction on Change B and C was trivial (p = 0.002, eta 2 <= 0.010). Based on these findings, it was concluded that the differences in pacing among age groups depended on the performance level. Thus, the coaches and fitness trainers working with cross-country skiers should advise their athletes to consider both age and performance.		[Nikolaidis, Pantelis T.] Exercise Physiol Lab, Nikaia, Greece; [Rosemann, Thomas; Knechtle, Beat] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl, St Gallen, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Gesundheitszentrum St Gallen, Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463582700016	31	Article; Article		
J	Beckham, George K.; Suchomel, Timothy J.; Sole, Christopher J.; Bailey, Christopher A.; Grazer, Jacob L.; Kim, Steven B.; Talbot, Kasie B.; Stone, Michael H.								Influence of Sex and Maximum Strength on Reactive Strength Index-Modified								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			65	72					MAR 2019	2019	Reactive strength index-modified (RSImod) is a measure of lower body explosiveness calculated by dividing jump height by time to takeoff. RSImod is different between stronger and weaker athletes and between males and females. The purpose of this study was to evaluate differences in RSImod between males and females while controlling for maximal strength and lower body explosiveness. Forty-three female and fifty-eight male Division-I athletes performed countermovement jumps on a force plate during unloaded (0kg) and loaded (20kg) conditions. We used an ANCOVA to test whether RSImod is different between sexes conditioning on relative maximum strength (PFa) and average RFD 0-200ms (RFD200) measured during the isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP). Differences of 0.087 (95% CI: 0.040 - 0.134; p = 0.0005) and 0.075 (95% CI: 0.040 - 0.109, p < 0.0001) were observed for RSImod between sexes in unloaded and loaded conditions, respectively. A male with PFa of 186 (grand mean of the sample) and RFD200 of 6602 N/s (grand mean of the sample) is predicted to have 28% greater RSImod than a female of similar PFa and RFD200. Maximum strength development should be a primary aim of training in female athletes, in addition to other trainable factors, such as stiffness and RFD.		[Beckham, George K.] Calif State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Seaside, CA 93955 USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [Sole, Christopher J.] The Citadel, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, Charleston, SC 29409 USA; [Bailey, Christopher A.] Univ North Texas, Dept Kinesiol Hlth Promot & Recreat, Denton, TX USA; [Grazer, Jacob L.] Georgia Coll, Sch Hlth & Human Performance, Milledgeville, GA 31061 USA; [Kim, Steven B.; Talbot, Kasie B.] Calif State Univ, Math & Stat Dept, Seaside, CA USA; [Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Ctr Excellence Sport Sci & Coach Educ, Johnson City, TN USA; [Beckham, George K.] Calif State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Seaside, CA 93955 USA								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400008	37	Article; Article		
J	Popowczak, Marek; Rokita, Andrzej; Swierzko, Kamil; Szczepan, Stefan; Michalski, Ryszard; Mackala, Krzysztof								Are Linear Speed and Jumping Ability Determinants of Change of Direction Movements in Young Male Soccer Players?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			109	117					MAR 2019	2019	The study was undertaken to investigate the relationships between linear speed, change of direction, and explosive power in the lower limbs of young soccer players. We aimed to determine the variables associated with effective change-of-direction speeds (time) based on the 30-m ZigZag (cutting maneuver) under 60 degrees (CODS1), and 30 m sprint divided into forward-backward-forward movement (CODS2). Sixty young soccer players (age: 17.4 +/- 0.7 years, height: 1.76 +/- 0.06 m, weight: 68.1 +/- 8.9 kg) from soccer sport clubs were included. The participants performed 30m change-of-direction sprints and 30-m backward and forward sprints. For the maximum speed evaluation, a straight-line 30-m sprint test was performed. Counter-movement jumps and standing broad jumps were used to assess jumping ability. Pearson's linear correlation and a multiple stepwise linear regression model were used to adjust for variations related to the influence of functional speed and explosive power variables, which were analyzed based on the CODS1 and CODS2 data. Our results showed that 30-m CODS2 and standing broad jumps were associated with CODS1. The variation for the 30-m change-of-direction maneuvers under 60 degrees could be explained by the results of 30-m forwardbackward-forward change-of-direction. The standing broad jump explained 10% variation for the performances in change-of-direction sprint decrements and 9% variation for the 5-m change-ofdirection with the best times, whereas straight-line sprinting was related to forward-backward-forward change-of-direction. The 10-m sprint explained 50% variation of the performances in the first 10-m forward running in the CODS2 and 12% variation for 10-m backward-forward change-of-direction. The 30-m sprint explained 36% variation for 30-m forward-backward-forward change-of-direction. The 30-m sprint and overall body mass also explained 58% variation for 10-m forward-backward change-ofdirection. For coaching purposes, we report that forward-backward-forward and cutting maneuver change-of-direction movements are independent and highly useful skills. This information can help to provide better training prescriptions.		[Popowczak, Marek; Rokita, Andrzej; Swierzko, Kamil] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Team Sport, Ul Mickiewicza 58, PL-51684 Wroclaw, Poland; [Szczepan, Stefan] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Swimming, Wroclaw, Poland; [Michalski, Ryszard; Mackala, Krzysztof] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Athlet & Gymnast, Wroclaw, Poland; [Popowczak, Marek] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Team Sport, Ul Mickiewicza 58, PL-51684 Wroclaw, Poland								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400013	35	Article; Article		
J	de Lima Bezerra, Agnes D.; Costa, Eduardo C.; Pacheco, Daniela A.; Souza, Daniel C.; Farias-Junior, Luiz F.; Ritti-Dia, Raphael M.; Grigolo, Gisele B.; de Bittencourt Junior, Paulo I. H.; Krause, Mauricio; Fayh, Ana P. T.								Effect of Acute Dietary Nitrate Supplementation on the Post-Exercise Ambulatory Blood Pressure in Obese Males: A Randomized, Controlled, Crossover Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			118	127					MAR 2019	2019	This study aimed to verify the effect of beetroot juice on post-exercise ambulatory blood pressure (BP) in obese individuals. Fourteen non-hypertensive obese males were randomly assigned to three experimental sessions: 1) Beetroot juice with exercise (BJE, 200ml with approximate to 800mg nitrate and 40 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic exercise at an intensity of 50% of the heart rate reserve), 2) fruit soda with exercise (FSE, 200ml of a low-nitrate drink and the same exercise session) and 3) control (CON, 200ml of water, an insignificant nitrate drink without exercise). The concentration of total nitrites and nitrates in plasma (NOx) after the drinks and the 24-hour ambulatory BP were evaluated. A two-way (condition vs. time) ANOVA for repeated measures, with a Bonferroni post hoc was used to analyze variables. The plasma NOx concentration increased significantly after ingestion of beetroot juice (from 9.9 +/- 8.4 mu M to 47.0 +/- 16.9 mu M, p < 0.001) and remained elevated until 1 hour post-intervention (54.7 +/- 10.1 mu M, p < 0.001), while it did not change in FSE and CON groups. The BJE session decreased ambulatory systolic BP in 5.3 mmHg (IC95%, -10.1 to -0.6, p = 0.025) in the period of 1-6 h after the BJE session compared to the CON session and reduction of 3.8 mmHg (IC95%, -7.5 to -0.007, p = 0.05) compared to the FSE session. No significant changes were observed for ambulatory diastolic BP (p > 0.05). BJE enhanced the reduction of systolic ambulatory BP up to 6 hours following a moderate-intensity aerobic exercise in obese individuals with an elevated cardiovascular risk profile.		[de Lima Bezerra, Agnes D.; Pacheco, Daniela A.; Fayh, Ana P. T.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Ctr Hlth Sci, Grad Program Nutr, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Costa, Eduardo C.; Souza, Daniel C.; Fayh, Ana P. T.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Ctr Hlth Sci, Grad Program Phys Educ, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Costa, Eduardo C.; Farias-Junior, Luiz F.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Ctr Hlth Sci, Grad Program Hlth Sci, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Ritti-Dia, Raphael M.] Nove Julho Univ, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Grigolo, Gisele B.; de Bittencourt Junior, Paulo I. H.; Krause, Mauricio] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Inst Basic Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Lab Inflammat Metab & Exercise Res LAPIMEX, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Grigolo, Gisele B.; de Bittencourt Junior, Paulo I. H.; Krause, Mauricio] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Inst Basic Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Lab Cellular Physiol, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Fayh, Ana P. T.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Hlth Sci Ctr, Dept Nutr, Natal, RN, Brazil								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400014	61	Article; Article		
J	Farias-Junior, Luiz Fernando; Dantas Macedo, Geovani Araujo; Vieira Browne, Rodrigo Alberto; Freire, Yuri Alberto; Oliveira-Dantas, Filipe Fernandes; Schwade, Daniel; Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis; Santos, Tony Meireles; Costa, Eduardo Caldas								Physiological and Psychological Responses during Low-Volume High-Intensity Interval Training Sessions with Different Work-Recovery Durations								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			181	190					MAR 2019	2019	We compared physiological and psychological responses between low-volume high-intensity interval training (LV-HIIT) sessions with different work-recovery durations. Ten adult males performed two LV-HIIT sessions in a randomized, counter-balanced order. Specifically, 60/60 s LV-HIIT and 30/30 s LV-HIIT. Oxygen uptake (VO2), carbon dioxide output (VCO2), ventilation (VE), respiratory exchange ratio (RER), perceived exertion (RPE), and affect were assessed. During intervals, the VO2 (3.25 +/- 0.57 vs. 2.83 +/- 0.50 L/min), VCO2 (3.15 +/- 0.61 vs. 2.93 +/- 0.58 L/min), VE (108.59 +/- 27.39 vs. 94.28 +/- 24.98 L/min), and RPE (15.9 +/- 1.5 vs. 13.9 +/- 1.5) were higher (ps <= 0.01), while RER (0.98 +/- 0.05 vs. 1.03 +/- 0.03) and affect (-0.8 +/- 1.4 vs. 1.1 +/- 2.0) were lower (ps <= 0.007) in the 60/60 s LV-HIIT. During recovery periods, VO2 (1.85 +/- 0.27 vs. 2.38 +/- 0.46 L/min), VCO2 (2.15 +/- 0.35 vs. 2.44 +/- 0.45 L/min), and affect (0.6 +/- 1.7 vs. 1.7 +/- 1.8) were lower (ps <= 0.02), while RER (1.20 +/- 0.05 vs. 1.03 +/- 0.05; p < 0.001) was higher in the 60/60 s LV-HIIT. Shorter LV-HIIT (30 s) elicits lower physiological response and attenuated negative affect than longer LV-HIIT (60 s).		[Farias-Junior, Luiz Fernando; Vieira Browne, Rodrigo Alberto; Oliveira-Dantas, Filipe Fernandes; Costa, Eduardo Caldas] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Grad Program Hlth Sci, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Farias-Junior, Luiz Fernando; Dantas Macedo, Geovani Araujo; Vieira Browne, Rodrigo Alberto; Freire, Yuri Alberto; Oliveira-Dantas, Filipe Fernandes; Schwade, Daniel; Mortatti, Arnaldo Luis; Costa, Eduardo Caldas] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Phys Educ, Univ Campus, BR-59078970 Natal, RN, Brazil; [Santos, Tony Meireles] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Grad Program Phys Educ, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Costa, Eduardo Caldas] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Phys Educ, Univ Campus, BR-59078970 Natal, RN, Brazil								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400021	42	Article; Article		
J	Nimphius, Sophia; McBride, Jeffrey M.; Rice, Paige E.; Goodman-Capps, Courtney L.; Capps, Christopher R.								Comparison of Quadriceps and Hamstring Muscle Activity during an Isometric Squat between Strength-Matched Men and Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			101	108					MAR 2019	2019	The primary purpose of this investigation was to determine whether strength-matched men and women exhibit a different magnitude and ratio of leg muscle activity during a maximal voluntary isometric squat. The secondary purpose was to assess the effect of normalization method on differences in strength between men and women. Thirty-two men (n = 16) and women (n = 16) were successfully strength-matched (<= 10% difference) by maximal force produced during an isometric squat (IS) when normalized to body weight. Subjects first performed a maximal isometric knee extension (IKE) and knee flexion (IKF) followed by the IS and muscle activity (EMG(max)) was recorded for the vastus medialis (VMO), vastus lateralis (VL), semitendinosus (ST) and biceps femoris (BF). Muscle activity during the IS was expressed relative to the maximums observed during the IKE and IKF (%EMG(max)). The results indicate that VMO, VL, ST and BF %EMG(max) were not significantly different (p > 0.05) between men and women during the IS (Men VMO = 136.7 +/- 24.9%, Women VMO = 157.1 +/- 59.8%, Men VL = 126.2 +/- 38.2%, Women VL = 128.1 +/- 35.5%, Men ST = 25.5 +/- 13.6%, Women ST = 25.2 +/- 21.8%, Men BF = 46.1 +/- 26.0%, Women BF = 42.2 +/- 24.8%). Furthermore, the VMO: VL and hamstring to quadriceps (H:Q) %EMG(max) ratio were not significantly different between groups in the IS (Men VMO: VL = 1.15 +/- 0.28, Women VMO: VL = 1.22 +/- 0.26, Men H:Q = 0.28 +/- 0.14, Women H:Q = 0.24 +/- 0.20). This investigation indicates that the magnitude of muscle activity and the ratios examined are not significantly different between men and women in a maximal voluntary isometric squat when matched for normalized strength. Future investigations should consider subject strength and normalization procedures in the experimental design to elucidate possible sex differences in neuromuscular performance capabilities.		[Nimphius, Sophia; Rice, Paige E.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [McBride, Jeffrey M.; Rice, Paige E.; Goodman-Capps, Courtney L.; Capps, Christopher R.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Neuromuscular & Biomech Lab, 045 Convocat Ctr, Boone, NC 28607 USA; [McBride, Jeffrey M.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Hlth & Exercise Sci, Neuromuscular & Biomech Lab, 045 Convocat Ctr, Boone, NC 28607 USA								60							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400012	35	Article; Article		
J	Tarawan, Vita Murniati; Gunadi, Julia Windi; Setiawan; Lesmana, Ronny; Goenawan, Hanna; Meilina, Debby Eka; Sipayung, Julidea Anggiriani; Wargasetia, Teresa Liliana; Widowati, Wahyu; Limyati, Yenni; Supratman, Unang								Alteration of Autophagy Gene Expression by Different Intensity of Exercise in Gastrocnemius and Soleus Muscles of Wistar Rats								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			146	154					MAR 2019	2019	Exercise-induced skeletal muscle adaptation requires degradation of cellular components carried out by autophagy. However, the alteration of autophagy by different intensity of exercise in skeletal muscle is still unknown. In the present study, we investigate whether low, moderate, and high-intensity exercises have different impacts on autophagy gene expression in gastrocnemius and soleus muscles of wistar rats. This work is limited because only rats are used, and does not cover human tissues. Twenty male wistar rats were assigned to four groups: sedentary control, low-intensity (LI, 10 m/minute), moderate-intensity (MI, 20 m/minute), and high-intensity (HI, 30 m/minute) exercises. Training was conducted 30 minutes/day with a 5 times/week interval for 8 weeks. RNA and protein were extracted from gastrocnemius and soleus muscles then stored in -80 degrees C. Specific primers and antibodies for autophagy genes and protein levels were utilized for semi-quantitative PCR and Western Blot. Exercises decrease expression of autophagy gene LC3 (LI and MI 0.7 fold, HI 0.8 fold, p < 0.05) in gastrocnemius muscles and soleus muscle (LI, MI, and HI 0.8 fold, p < 0.05) compared to control. On the other side, we observed p62 gene expression decreased in gastrocnemius (0.8 fold, p < 0.05) and soleus (0.9 fold, p < 0.05) muscles with MI, but increased in soleus (1.1 fold, p < 0.05) muscles with HI. This result is consistent with the change of protein level, suggesting that autophagy might be modulated by different type of exercise. This study suggests that intensity of exercise and different type of muscle fibers effect autophagy gene expression in skeletal muscle of wistar rats. MI exercise increases autophagy gene expression in gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, but HI exercise decreases autophagy gene expression in soleus muscles of wistar rats. Soleus muscles are more responsive to exercise compared to gastrocnemius muscles.		[Tarawan, Vita Murniati; Setiawan; Lesmana, Ronny; Goenawan, Hanna] Univ Padjadjaran, Fac Med, Dept Biomed Sci, Bandung, Indonesia; [Gunadi, Julia Windi] Maranatha Christian Univ, Fac Med, Dept Physiol, Bandung, Indonesia; [Lesmana, Ronny; Goenawan, Hanna; Supratman, Unang] Univ Padjadjaran, Div Biol Act, Cent Lab, Bandung, Indonesia; [Meilina, Debby Eka; Sipayung, Julidea Anggiriani] Maranatha Christian Univ, Fac Med, Bandung, Indonesia; [Wargasetia, Teresa Liliana; Widowati, Wahyu] Maranatha Christian Univ, Fac Med, Dept Biol, Bandung, Indonesia; [Limyati, Yenni] Immanuel Hosp, Phys Med & Rehabil Dept, Bandung, Indonesia; [Supratman, Unang] Univ Padjadjaran, Fac Math & Nat Sci, Dept Chem, Bandung, Indonesia; [Gunadi, Julia Windi] Dept Physiol, Jalan Drg Suria Sumantri 65, Bandung, West Java, Indonesia								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400017	34	Article; Article		
J	Patterson, Carson; Platzer, Hans-Peter; Raschner, Christian								The 2 Minute Loaded Repeated Jump Test: Longitudinal Anaerobic Testing in Elite Alpine Ski Racers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			128	136					MAR 2019	2019	This study investigated the 4-year development of anaerobic power and capacity in Austrian elite female alpine ski racers and examined the relationship between the 2-minute loaded repeated jump test (LRJT) results and ski racing performance (International Ski Federation (FIS) points). Ten Austrian elite female ski racers were tested prior to four racing seasons. The LRJT consisted of 48 loaded countermovement jumps (LCMJs) with barbell load equivalent to 20% bodyweight. Before the LRJT, maximal body mass normalized average power of a single LCMJ (P-MAX) was determined. The mean jump power was calculated across all jumps in the test (P0-120). Anaerobic power (P-MAX) in season 2 (32.3 +/- 2.3 W.kg( -1)) significantly improved over season 1 (30.5 +/- 2.3 W.kg( -1)) (p < 0.05) but there were no further differences between seasons, with season 3 at 33.5 +/- 3.4 W.kg( -1) and season 4 at 33.6 +/- 3.0 W.kg( -1). Anaerobic capacity (P0-120) increased up to season 3 by 9.2% (27.1 +/- 2.8 to 29.6 +/- 2.4W.kg( -1)), but was significantly higher only when comparing season 4 to seasons 1 and 2 (p < 0.05). FIS points changed significantly (p < 0.05), from 18.1 +/- 8.2 in season 1 to 8.4 +/- 4.8 in season 4 (lower FIS points indicates better racing results). FIS points had a positive relationship with PmAx (r = -0.73, p < 0.05) and P0-120 (r = -0.64, p < 0.05) only in season 4. Improvements in FIS points from year to year did not correlate with seasonal increases in LRJT results. In conclusion, anaerobic power improved only after season 1, and anaerobic capacity changes were evident only in season 4. Ski racing performance (FIS points) correlated with LRJT test results in only season 4. The LRJT can monitor a ski racer's anaerobic power and capacity, but does not correlate with ski racing performance.		[Patterson, Carson; Platzer, Hans-Peter; Raschner, Christian] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Patterson, Carson] Olympiazentrum, Inst Sportwissensch, Furstenweg 185, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400015	38	Article; Article		
J	Rickaby, Rebecca; El Khoury, Louis Y.; Samiric, Tom; Raleigh, Stuart M.								Epigenetic Status of The Human <i>MMP11</i> Gene Promoter is Altered in Patellar Tendinopathy								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			155	159					MAR 2019	2019	Patellar tendinopathy (PT) is a debilitating condition that often affects those who are physically active. Gene variation is known to contribute to human tendinopathy but the role of DNA methylation, as an epigenetic factor, has only recently been discovered. Using a case-control approach, we sought to determine whether differences existed between the methylation status of the MMP11 gene promoter in patellar tendinopathy compared to healthy tendon. We used PCR and pyrosequencing to interrogate the methylation profiles of 4 CpG sites (areas of the genome rich in C/G nucleotides) upstream of the MMP11 gene in DNA from males with PT (n = 10) and those with healthy tendon (n = 10). We also conducted a correlation analysis to establish whether age influenced methylation in the PT patients and controls. We found a significant (p = 0.045) difference in the methylation status of a single CpG site 65 base pairs (bp) upstream of the MMP11 promoter between the PT group and controls. There were no other differences in the extent of MMP11 promoter methylation between the two groups. Interestingly, we also found that in controls the degree of methylation at a second CpG site, 55 bp upstream of the first exon, tentatively correlated (r = 0.77, p = 0.009) with age. However, the correlation did not reach significance when a potential outlier was removed. This is the first study to show an epigenetic alteration to a member of the MMP gene family in human patellar tendinopathy. The data add to our understanding of how epigenetics should be considered when developing appropriate risk models.		[Rickaby, Rebecca] Univ Northampton, Fac Hlth & Soc, Northampton, England; [Rickaby, Rebecca] Univ Nottingham, Fac Sci, Sch Pharm, Nottingham, England; [El Khoury, Louis Y.] Mayo Clin, Dept Biochem & Mol Biol, Rochester, MN USA; [Samiric, Tom] La Trobe Univ, Sch Life Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Raleigh, Stuart M.] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Raleigh, Stuart M.] Coventry Univ, Ctr Sport Exercise & Life Sci, Sch Life Sci, Coventry CV1 5FB, W Midlands, England								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400018	28	Article; Article		
J	Malik, Adam A.; Williams, Craig A.; Weston, Kathryn L.; Barker, Alan R.								Perceptual and Cardiorespiratory Responses to High-Intensity Interval Exercise in Adolescents: Does Work Intensity Matter?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			1	12					MAR 2019	2019	High-intensity interval exercise (HIIE) may not elicit prominent unpleasant feelings even with elevated perceived exertion and physiological stress in adolescents. However, the influence of different HIIE work intensities on the affective experience and cardiorespiratory responses is unknown. This study examined the acute affective, enjoyment, perceived exertion and cardiorespiratory responses to HIIE with different work intensities in adolescents. Participants (n = 16; 8 boys; age 12.0 +/- 0.3 years) performed, on separate days, HIIE conditions consisting of 8 x 1-minute work-intervals at 70%, 85%, or 100% peak power separated by 75 seconds recovery at 20 W. Affect, enjoyment and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) were recorded before, during, and after HIIE. Heart rate (HR) and oxygen uptake were collected during HIIE. Affect declined in all conditions (p < 0.01) but 100%FilIE elicited significantly lower affect than 70% HIIE and 85% HIIE at work-interval 8 (all p < 0.02, ES > 1.74; 70% HIIE = 2.5 +/- 0.8; 85% HIIE = 1.1 +/- 1.5; 100% HIIE = -1.5 +/- 1.4 on feeling scale). Similar enjoyment was evident during and after all conditions (all p > 0.44). RPE was significantly higher during 100% HIIE than 70% HIIE and 85% HIIE across all work-intervals (all p < 0.01, ES > 1.56). The majority of the participants attained >= 90 HRmax during 85% HIIE (87%) and 100% HIIE (100%), but not during 70% HIIE (6%). Affect responses during HIIE are dependent on the intensity of the work-interval and are not entirely negative (unpleasant feelings). Despite similar enjoyment, positive affect experienced during 70% HIIE and 85%HIIE could serve as a strategy to encourage exercise adoption and adherence in adolescents, but only 85% HIIE elicits sufficient HR stimulus to facilitate potential health benefits.		[Malik, Adam A.; Williams, Craig A.; Barker, Alan R.] Univ Exeter, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Childrens Hlth & Exercise Res Ctr, Sport & Hlth Sci, St Lukes Campus, Exeter EX1 2LU, Devon, England; [Malik, Adam A.] Univ Sains Malaysia, Sch Hlth Sci, Exercise & Sports Sci Programme, George Town, Malaysia; [Weston, Kathryn L.] Teesside Univ, Sch Hlth & Social Care, Middlesbrough, Cleveland, England; [Barker, Alan R.] Univ Exeter, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Childrens Hlth & Exercise Res Ctr, Sport & Hlth Sci, St Lukes Campus, Exeter EX1 2LU, Devon, England								44							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400001	45	Article; Article		
J	Eriksrud, Ola; Saezland, Fredrik O.; Federolf, Peter A.; Cabri, Jan								Functional Mobility and Dynamic Postural Control Predict Overhead Handball Throwing Performance in Elite Female Team Handball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			91	100					MAR 2019	2019	The relationship between dynamic postural control, functional mobility and team handball throwing performance, velocity and accuracy, is largely unknown. The hand reach star excursion balance test (HSEBT) is a full kinetic chain assessment tool of these factors. Specifically, L135 and R135 (extension) reaches elicit joint movement combinations similar to the cocking and acceleration phase, while the L45 and R45 (flexion) reaches elicit joint movement combinations similar to the follow-through. The purpose of this study was to determine if specific HSEBT reach measures correlate with team handball throwing performance. Eleven elite female team handball players (21.7 +/- 1.8 years; 71.3 +/- 9.6 kg; 1.75 +/- 0.07 m) executed selected HSEBT reaches before performing five valid step-up overhead throws (1 x 1m target) from which throwing velocity (motion capture) and accuracy (mean radial error) were quantified. Significant relationships between HSEBT measures and mean radial error, but not throwing velocity were established. Specifically, extension composite scores (L135+R135) for the dominant (150.7 +/- 17.4cm) and non-dominant foot (148.1 +/- 17.5 cm) were correlated with mean radial error (p < 0.05). Also, specific reaches on the dominant (L135: 87.4 +/- 5.6 cm; R135: 63.4 +/- 11.8 cm) and non-dominant (R135: 87.0 +/- 6.1 cm) foot were correlated with throwing error (p < 0.05). The lack of significant findings to throwing velocity might be due to a ceiling effect of both L135 and R135 and of throwing velocity. We conclude that while there may be other reasons for handball players to train and test functional mobility and dynamic postural control as measured in the HSEBT, no beneficial effect on throwing performance should be expected in an elite group of handball players.		[Eriksrud, Ola; Saezland, Fredrik O.; Cabri, Jan] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Federolf, Peter A.] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Eriksrud, Ola] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400011	55	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Wen-Sheng; Lin, Jia-Huei; Chen, Shu-Chen; Chien, Kuei-Yu								Effects of Dynamic Stretching with Different Loads on Hip Joint Range of Motion in the Elderly								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			52	57					MAR 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to investigate the immediate and sustained effects of static stretching (SS), dynamic stretching (DS) with no-load (DSNL), DS with a light load (DSLL, 0.25 kg), and DS with a heavy load (DSHL, 0.5 kg) on the hip joint range of motion (ROM). Sixteen participants (63.2 +/- 7.13 years) were randomly assigned to perform SS, DSNL, DSLL, and DSHL exercises. The ROM for passive flexion and extension of the right hip joint was measured at pretest, as well as immediately after and at 60 min after completing the exercise. Additionally, the ROM of hip flexion and extension during the stretching exercise was evaluated by kinematic analysis of video-captured images. Passive ROM measurements reveals that the hip flexion ROM was higher after DSNL than after DSLL and DSHL at both time points (DSNL vs. DSLL, DSHL: 0 min: 7.0% vs. -1.8%, -3.9%; 60 min: 7.8% vs. -2.1%, -1.4%, p < 0.05), as well as higher than after SS at 60 min after exercise (DSNL vs. SS: 7.8% vs. 1.0%, p < 0.05). Compared to SS, all types of DS demonstrated a more sustained effect of ROM improvement at 60 min (DSNL, DSLL, DSHL vs. SS: 8.0%, 5.6%, 7.0% vs. 1.6%, p < 0.05). These results suggest that all DS modes can effectively improve hip extension ROM in the elderly. DSNL may be the most effective exercise for improving hip flexion ROM, providing sustained effect for over 60 min.		[Zhou, Wen-Sheng; Lin, Jia-Huei; Chien, Kuei-Yu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Zhou, Wen-Sheng] Nanjing Xiao Zhuang Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Chen, Shu-Chen] Yu Da Univ, Dept Recreat & Sports Management, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Chien, Kuei-Yu] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Sports Sci, Taoyuan, Taiwan								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400006	40	Article; Article		
J	Lulinska-Kuklik, Ewelina; Maculewicz, Ewelina; Moska, Waldemar; Ficek, Krzysztof; Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz; Michalowska-Sawczyn, Monika; Huminska-Lisowska, Kinga; Buryta, Maciej; Chycki, Jakub; Cieszczyk, Pawel; Zmijewski, Piotr; Rzeszutko, Agata; Sawczuk, Marek; Stastny, Petr; Petr, Miroslav; Maciejewska-Skrendo, Agnieszka								Are <i>IL1B, IL6</i> and <i>IL6R</i> Gene Variants Associated with Anterior Cruciate Ligament Rupture Susceptibility?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				18	1			137	145					MAR 2019	2019	Cytokines, such as interleukins, are crucial in regulating critical cell signaling pathways as well as being major contributors to inflammatory response and are upregulated during ligament and tendon injuries. The genes encoding key interleukins, such as IL1B and IL6 as well as interleukin receptor IL6R, were chosen as candidate genes for association with soft tissue injuries. The aim of the case-control study was to verify the hypothesis that sequence variants rs1143627, rs16944, rs1800795, rs2228145 in the IL1B, IL6 and IL6R genes are associated with ACL rupture susceptibility in a Polish population. Among four analyzed SNPs, the rs1800795 IL6 gene polymorphism was found to be the only one significantly associated with ACL rupture (p = 0.010, p = 0.022, p = 0.004 for codominant, recessive and overdominant models, respectively; odds ratio = 1.74, 95% CI 1.08-2.81, sex adjusted p = 0.032 for recessive model). With reference to the other analyzed polymorphisms, we failed to show significant differences in the genotype and allele frequencies for IL6R rs2228145as well as IL1B rs16944 and rs1143627 (analyzed alone or in haplotype combination) between the ACL rupture group and the healthy control group among Polish participants. Due to the nature of case-control studies, the results of this study need to be confirmed in independent studies with larger sample sizes.		[Lulinska-Kuklik, Ewelina; Moska, Waldemar; Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz; Sawczuk, Marek] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Tourism & Recreat, Gdansk, Poland; [Maculewicz, Ewelina] Mil Inst Hyg & Epidemiol, Dept Appl Physiol, Warsaw, Poland; [Ficek, Krzysztof] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Fac Physiotherapy, Katowice, Poland; [Michalowska-Sawczyn, Monika; Huminska-Lisowska, Kinga; Buryta, Maciej; Maciejewska-Skrendo, Agnieszka] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Chycki, Jakub; Cieszczyk, Pawel] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Fac Phys Educ, Katowice, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Univ Informat Technol & Management Rzeszow, Fac Med, Rzeszow, Poland; [Rzeszutko, Agata] Univ Rzeszow, Fac Phys Educ, Rzeszow, Poland; [Stastny, Petr; Petr, Miroslav] Charles Univ Prague, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Univ Informat Technol & Management Rzeszow, Fac Med, Rzeszow, Poland								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000458299400016	43	Article; Article		
J	Tumilty, Steve; Adhia, Divya Bharatkumar; Smoliga, James M.; Gisselman, Angela Spontelli								Thermal profiles over the Achilles tendon in a cohort of non-injured collegiate athletes over the course of a cross country season								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				110	115		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.01.009			MAR 2019	2019	Objectives: To determine normal temperatures over the Achilles tendon over nine weeks. Design: A prospective cohort study with nine weeks of observation. Setting: University's Human Biomechanics and Physiology Laboratory. Participants: Male or female competitive runners running at least 25 miles per week who did not report pain in the region of the Achilles over 9 weeks of data collection. Main outcome measure: Thermal images taken at the same time and day of the week, were used to measure the temperature of the skin over the Achilles tendon. Results: Seventeen athletes were eligible for analysis. The Achilles tendon temperatures were right 28.7 degrees C +/- 1.3 degrees C, left 28.8 degrees C +/- 1.3 degrees C. ICC demonstrated a very high consistency and minimal variations in temperatures (right 0.86 (95% CI = 0.58, 0.98), left 0.79 (95% CI = 0.38, 0.97). The mean difference between sides over the season was 0.50 degrees C +/- 0.43 degrees C (p = 0.681). A decreasing trend in the Achilles tendon temperatures as the season progressed was observed. Conclusion: This is the first report of normal thermal profiles over an extended period. Variations in Achilles temperatures left to right, and over time were not significant. The decreasing temperature trend over the season warrants further investigation. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Tumilty, Steve; Adhia, Divya Bharatkumar] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand; [Smoliga, James M.; Gisselman, Angela Spontelli] High Point Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, High Point, NC USA; [Tumilty, Steve] Univ Otago, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300017	39	Article; Article		
J	Martins, Carolina; Pereira, Rebeca; Fernandes, Ines; Martins, Joana; Lopes, Tiago; Ramos, Luis; Pacheco, Joana; Silva, Anabela G.								Neural gliding and neural tensioning differently impact flexibility, heat and pressure pain thresholds in asymptomatic subjects:. A randomized, parallel and double-blind study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				101	109		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.01.008			MAR 2019	2019	Objective: To compare the effect of neural gliding and tensioning on hamstring flexibility, nerve function (heat and cold thresholds) and pain sensitivity (pain intensity and pressure pain threshold) of the mobilized and non-mobilized lower limbs at post-intervention and 24 h follow up. Design: Randomized, parallel and double blinded trial. Setting/participants: Forty-eight asymptomatic participants. Intervention(s): Participants received neural gliding (n = 23) or tensioning (n = 25). Main Outcome Measures - Straight leg raising (SLR; in degrees), heat and cold threshold (degrees C), pressure pain threshold (PPT; in Kgf) and pain intensity (visual analogue scale), taken at baseline, post-intervention and at 24 h follow up. Results: There was a significant interaction between time, intervention and limb for SLR (F2,45 = 3.83; p = 0.029). A significant interaction between time and intervention for PPT (F2,45 = 3.59; p = 0.036) and heat threshold (F2,45 = 5.10; p = 0.01). A significant effect of time (F2,45 = 9.42; p < 0.001) and of limb (F1,46 = 4.78; p = 0.035) for pain intensity during SLR, and a significant effect of time (F2,45 = 3.65; p = 0.034) for pain intensity during PPT. Conclusion: Gliding and tensioning had similar and positive effects for flexibility in the mobilized limb, but tensioning was superior for the non-mobilized limb. Gliding was superior to tensioning for pressure pain and heat thresholds. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Martins, Carolina; Pereira, Rebeca; Fernandes, Ines; Martins, Joana; Lopes, Tiago; Ramos, Luis; Pacheco, Joana; Silva, Anabela G.] Univ Aveiro, Sch Hlth Sci, Campus Univ Santiago, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal; [Silva, Anabela G.] Univ Aveiro, CINTESISUA, Campus Univ Santiago, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal; [Silva, Anabela G.] Univ Aveiro, Sch Hlth Sci, Campus Univ Santiago, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300016	50	Article; Article		
J	dos Santos, Ana F.; Nakagawa, Theresa H.; Lessi, Giovanna C.; Luz, Bruna C.; Matsuo, Heitor T. M.; Nakashima, Giovana Y.; Maciel, Carlos D.; Serrao, Fabio V.								Effects of three gait retraining techniques in runners with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				92	100		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.01.006			MAR 2019	2019	Objectives: Analyze the effects of 3 gait retraining: forefoot landing (FFOOT), 10% step rate increase (SR10%) and forward trunk lean (FTL) on lower limb biomechanics and clinical measurements in patellofemoral pain (PFP) runners. Design: Case series report. Settings: Biomechanical laboratory and treadmill running. Participants: Eighteen recreational PFP runners randomized in 3 groups. Main outcome measures: Lower limb kinematics and muscle activation were assessed at baseline and 2-week post-training. Pain intensity and function limitation, measured by AKPS (Anterior Knee Pain Scale) and LEFS (Lower Extremity Functional Scale) assessed at baseline, post-training and 6-month follow-up. Repeated measures analysis of variance was used to compare the effects of gait retraining. Results: FFOOT and FTL increased the AKPS score at post-training(P =.001; P =.008) and 6-month follow-up(P < .001; P < .001). SR10% increased the AKPS score from baseline to 6-month followup(P =.006). Pain and LEFS score were improved after gait retraining regardless group. FFOOT presented greater gastrocnemius(P = .037) and rectus femoris pre-activation(P =.006) at post-retraining session. Gait retraining reduced the muscle activity during stance phase and increased during the late-swing regardless group. Conclusion: The three techniques presented clinical benefits, improvement of pain symptoms and functional scores, was not accompanied with significant biomechanics differences that could entirely explain this clinical improvement after the intervention. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[dos Santos, Ana F.; Lessi, Giovanna C.; Luz, Bruna C.; Matsuo, Heitor T. M.; Serrao, Fabio V.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Phys Therapy Dept, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Nakagawa, Theresa H.] Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Nakashima, Giovana Y.; Maciel, Carlos D.] Univ Sao Paulo, Dept Elect Engn, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [dos Santos, Ana F.] Dept Fisioterapia, Km 235, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil								46							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300015	49	Article; Article		
J	Temprom, Varavee; Sangnon, Chamaiporn; Boontham, Pornpan; Viriyatharakij, Nitaya								Clarifying acromial distance: Standardisation and association between supine and sitting positions								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				51	54		10.1016/j.ptsp.2019.01.001			MAR 2019	2019	Objectives: To define a standardised acromial distance (AD) in relaxed, supine position and its cut-point with sensitivity and specificity for classifying pectoralis minor (PMI) shortness. To clarify a predictive value of AD while relaxed, supine (AD2) from AD while sitting (AD1), adjusted by the effect of body mass index (BMI). Design: Cross-sectional; Setting: Laboratory of Physical Therapy Faculties. Participants: Eighty-five participants aged 18-38 years. Main outcome measures: A standardised-AD was proportionate of AD at scapular retraction (AD3) to AD2. AD1 was clarified as a predictive variable for AD2 in circumstances of adjusted BMI. Results: The cut-point of standardised-AD for PMI shortness was equal to or above 0.61. The sensitivity and specificity were 75.64% and 85.71%. AD2 was 0.355 time of AD1 when adjusted for effect of BMI. This cumulative effect may be able to explain AD2 for 41.4% of the variation in the AD1 and BMI around its mean. Conclusions: Standardised-AD may be suitable to reflect PMI shortness while supine. Application for clinical practise may estimate AD2 from AD1 by summation of the effect of BMI. When designing postural education for correcting PMI shortness while lying, efficacy may be a concern in transfer to upright or functional position. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Temprom, Varavee; Sangnon, Chamaiporn] St Louis Coll, Fac Phys Therapy, Bangkok 10120, Thailand; [Boontham, Pornpan] Lerdsin Hosp, Unit Phys Therapy, Bangkok 10500, Thailand; [Viriyatharakij, Nitaya] Srinakharinwirot Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Ongkharak 26120, Nakhon Nayok, Thailand; [Viriyatharakij, Nitaya] Srinakharinwirot Univ, Fac Phys Therapy, Ongkharak 26120, Nakhon Nayok, Thailand								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300009	19	Article; Article		
J	Ophey, Martin J.; Bosch, Karlijn; Khalfallah, Fatos Z.; Wijnands, Ap M. M. P.; van den Berg, Robert B.; Bernards, Nol T. M.; Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.; Tak, Igor J. R.								The decline step-down test measuring the maximum pain-free flexion angle: A reliable and valid performance test in patients with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				43	50		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.12.007			MAR 2019	2019	Objectives: Patients with patellofemoral pain (PFP) experience pain while descending stairs. To date no reliable and valid performance-test exists to assess the maximum pain-free knee flexion angle (MPFFA) as outcome measure during a step-down task. Therefore, the intra- and inter-observer reliability and construct validity of the decline step-down test (DSDT) measuring the MPFFA in patients with PFP were evaluated. Design: Reliability and construct validity. Setting: Private practices in Nijmegen and Utrecht, the Netherlands. Participants: Patients with PFP. Main outcome measures: The reliability was assessed by repeated measurements of the MPFFA during the DSDT. The construct validity was assessed by correlating the measurements on the DSDT with the Anterior Knee Pain Scale Dutch Version (AKPS-DV) based on a pre-set hypothesis. Results: Thirty-two participants (forty-eight knees) were eligible for inclusion. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) for intra-observer reliability was ICC2,1 =0.83 and ICC2,1 =0.85 for inter-observer reliability. The 95% limits of agreement (LoA) showed a width of 27.56 degrees for intra-observer reliability and a width of 24.42 degrees for inter-observer reliability. There was an average positive correlation between the DSDT and the total score on the AKPS-DV (r(s) = 0.31, p = 0.030). Conclusion: The DSDT measuring the MPFFA is reliable and valid in patients with PFP. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ophey, Martin J.] Nexus Inst Phys Therapy Educ, Langeweg 204, NL-6591 XA Gennep, Netherlands; [Ophey, Martin J.] IJsveldFysio Private Practice Phys Therapy, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Bosch, Karlijn; Khalfallah, Fatos Z.; Wijnands, Ap M. M. P.; Bernards, Nol T. M.] HAN Univ Appl Sci, Phys Therapy Dept, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Ophey, Martin J.; van den Berg, Robert B.; Tak, Igor J. R.] European Sports Phys Therapy Educ Network, Vienna, Austria; [Tak, Igor J. R.] Physiotherapy Utrecht Oost, Sports Rehabil & Manual Therapy, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Kerkhoffs, Gino M. M. J.; Tak, Igor J. R.] Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Ophey, Martin J.] Nexus Inst Phys Therapy Educ, Langeweg 204, NL-6591 XA Gennep, Netherlands								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300008	42	Article; Article		
J	Heijne, Annette; Flodstrom, Frida; von Rosen, Philip								Could specific exercises based on a movement screen prevent injuries in adolescent elite athletes?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				28	33		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.12.012			MAR 2019	2019	Objectives: The primary aim of this study was to explore if specific exercises based on the nine test screening battery (9SB) reduce short-term and seasonal injury occurrence in adolescent elite athletes. Setting: Youth elite sports. Design: Prospective intervention study over 1-year. Participants: Adolescent elite athletes (n = 216) in age 15-20 from seven different sports. Main outcome measures: Seasonal/short-term injury incidence and seasonal substantial/injury prevalence was obtained via weekly surveys completed by study participants. Results: There was a significant (p = 0.036) difference in the seasonal substantial injury prevalence across number of times the exercises were performed (exercise category), where athletes performing the exercises >4 times/week reported significantly (p = 0.048) higher seasonal substantial injury prevalence compared to athletes completing the exercises once a week (median 15.4 vs 0%, r = 0.25). No statistically significant difference in injury incidence (p = 0.429) or seasonal injury prevalence (p = 0.171) was found across exercise category. Performing the exercises once a day compared to not at all did not reduce the short-term risk of new injury or substantial injury. Conclusions: Our results provide supporting evidence that completing specific exercises based on the 9SB have no group effect on short-term or seasonal injury occurrence in adolescent elite athletes. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Heijne, Annette; Flodstrom, Frida; von Rosen, Philip] Karolinska Inst, Dept Neurobiol Care Sci & Soc NVS, Div Physiotherapy, Huddinge, Sweden; [von Rosen, Philip] NVS Karolinska Inst, Div Physiotherapy, Alfred Nobels Alle 23, SE-14183 Huddinge, Sweden								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300006	39	Article; Article		
J	Van Goeverden, W.; Langhout, R. F. H.; Barendrecht, M.; Tak, I. J. R.								Active pelvic tilt is reduced in athletes with groin injury; a case-controlled study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				14	21		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.12.011			MAR 2019	2019	Objective: To study if athletes with groin injury had less active pelvic tilt (APT) than non-injured controls. Design: Case-control. Setting: Sports physiotherapy clinics and sports clubs. Participants: 17 athletes (Tegner>5, age 25.1(5.2) with groin injury and 27 healthy controls (Tenger>5, age 24.4(3.6)). Main outcome measures: Active pelvic tilt, defining the ability of an individual to actively tilt the pelvis anteriorly and posteriorly over a frontal axis, and hip range of motion (HROM) parameters. Results: Linear regression model associations with generalized estimated equations revealed that APT was lower on injured sides compared to non-injured for total (21.1(7.1) vs. 27.2(8.0), P = .003, effect size (ES) = 0.8) and anterior (10.2(5.9) vs. 13.7(4.8), P =.004, ES = 0.65) APT. Posterior APT (-10.9(3.6) vs. -13.4(5.2), P =.06, ES = 0.56) showed a trend towards being lower in those with groin injury. HROM parameters were not found associated. Conclusions: Total active and anterior pelvic tilt were lower on the injured side in athletes with groin injury when compared to non-injured sides and healthy controls. This may be a relevant factor to consider in rehabilitation. Whether this is a cause or effect cannot be ascertained due to the cross sectional study design. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Van Goeverden, W.; Tak, I. J. R.] Physiotherapy Utrecht Oost Sports Rehabil & Manua, Bloemstr 65D, NL-3581 WD Utrecht, Netherlands; [Langhout, R. F. H.] Physiotherapy Dukenburg, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Langhout, R. F. H.; Tak, I. J. R.] Univ Amsterdam, Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Traumatol, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Langhout, R. F. H.; Tak, I. J. R.] Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Langhout, R. F. H.] SOMT, Masters Program Manual Therapy, Amersfoort, Netherlands; [Barendrecht, M.] Avans Improving Profess, Breda, Netherlands; [Tak, I. J. R.] Physiotherapy Utrecht Oost Sports Rehabil & Manua, Bloemstr 65D, NL-3581 WD Utrecht, Netherlands								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300004	47	Article; Article		
J	Harriss, Julie; Khan, Amina; Song, Kyeongtak; Register-Mihalik, Johna K.; Wikstrom, Erik A.								Clinical movement assessments do not differ between collegiate athletes with and without chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				22	27		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.12.009			MAR 2019	2019	Objectives: To determine if overall Landing Error Scoring System-17 (LESS-17) and Fusionetics scores differ between collegiate athletes with and without chronic ankle instability (CAI). We also aimed to determine if the rate of specific movement errors during the LESS-17 and Fusionetics differed between the groups. Design: Case-Control. Setting: Clinical Sports Medicine Facility. Participants: Ninety-nine athletes from six Division I NCAA sports were eligible for the investigation. Forty-nine of those participants were classified as having CAI and fifty were classified as uninjured controls. Main outcome measures: An overall Lower Extremity Fusionetics score and individual task scores were calculated based on movement errors made during a double limb, double-limb with heel lift, and single limb squat. A LESS-17 score was calculated based on movement errors made during a 30 cm drop jump. Results: No differences were found between groups for the LESS-17 (p = 0.51), overall Lower Extremity Fusionetics (p = 0.49), and individual Fusionetics tasks (p > 0.36). More individuals with CAI made an uncontrolled trunk movement during a single-limb squat than uninjured controls (p < 0.01). Conclusions: Overall movement quality, as assessed by the LESS-17 and Fusionetics, did not differ between collegiate athletes with and without CAI. The rate of making specific movement errors also did not differ between groups. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Harriss, Julie; Khan, Amina; Song, Kyeongtak; Register-Mihalik, Johna K.; Wikstrom, Erik A.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, 311 Woollen Gymnasium,CB 8700, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Wikstrom, Erik A.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, 311 Woollen Gymnasium,CB 8700, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300005	33	Article; Article		
J	Dobija, Lech; Reynaud, Vivien; Pereira, Bruno; Van Hille, William; Descamps, Stephane; Bonnin, Armand; Coudeyre, Emmanuel								Measurement properties of the Star Excursion Balance Test in patients with ACL deficiency								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				7	13		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.12.010			MAR 2019	2019	Objectives: To assess intrarater reliability, agreement and construct validity of the Star Excursion Balance Test (SEBT) in individuals with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) deficiency and the ability of the SEBT to distinguish between healthy and ACL-deficient individuals. Methods: Patients with ACL deficiency and healthy matched controls performed the SEBT and the One Leg Hop for Distance test (OLHD). Three consecutive trials were analyzed. Also evaluated were isokinetic thigh muscle strength and self-reported function. Results: We included 33 patients and 33 matched controls. Intrarater reliability of the SEBT was good to excellent (ICC: 0.88-0.96). Agreement was estimated by the minimal detectable change (5.93-8.36 cm). Posteromedial and posterolateral direction and composite score of the SEBT were correlated with OLHD performance (r: 0.34-0.53, p < 0.05) and thigh muscle strength (r: 0.35-0.45, p < 0.05). Posteromedial and posterolateral direction and composite scores of the SEBT were significantly lower bilaterally for patients with ACL deficiency than controls (p < 0.05). Conclusion: The SEBT can be used in patients with ACL deficiency with good to excellent intrarater reliability. Construct validity of the SEBT versus the OLHD test and isokinetic thigh muscle strength can be confirmed. Furthermore, posteromedial and posterolateral performance of the SEBT can detect bilateral neuromuscular control deficits. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dobija, Lech; Reynaud, Vivien; Bonnin, Armand; Coudeyre, Emmanuel] CHU Clermont Ferrand, Serv Med Phys & Readaptat, 58 Rue Montalembert, F-63000 Clermont Ferrand, France; [Pereira, Bruno] CHU Clermont Ferrand, Direct Rech Clin & Innovat, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Van Hille, William] Hop Prive Chataigneraie, Beaumont, France; [Descamps, Stephane] CHU Clermont Ferrand, Serv Chirurg Orthoped & Traumatol, Clermont Ferrand, France; [Dobija, Lech] CHU Clermont Ferrand, Serv Med Phys & Readaptat, 58 Rue Montalembert, F-63000 Clermont Ferrand, France								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300003	44	Article; Article		
J	Rosalie, Simon M.; Malone, James M.								Women in motorsport: A case report of driving posture and performance after double mastectomy								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				36				1	4		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.12.005			MAR 2019	2019	Introduction: Here we report a case study of an experienced amateur female racing driver (age = 59) with self-reported fatigue of the muscles of the shoulder girdle post bilateral mastectomy and breast reconstruction. This case study describes how adjustment of her driving posture affected measures of muscle fatigue (sEMG) and driving performance (lap-time). Methods: Bilateral surface electromyographic activity of sternocleidomastoid, cervical erector spinae, anterior deltoid and pectoralis major, angles of inclination of the cervical and lumbar spine in the sagittal plane and lap-times were measured at: 1) baseline, 2) after an initial adjustment of driving posture, and 3) after a readjustment of driving posture. Mean lap-times improved from 136.81 s (SD = 2.12) at baseline to 134.63 s (SD = 1.8) after readjustment. Results: Both sternocleidomastoid and left cervical erector spinae fatigued more slowly after readjustment but right cervical erector spinae fatigued more quickly. There was no change in the rates of fatigue of either pectoralis major or anterior deltoid. Conclusion: The improvement in her performance was associated with a change in the posture and movement pattern of her head rather than her shoulder girdle. It is likely that this improved her ability to visually perceive and steer the racing line. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rosalie, Simon M.; Malone, James M.] R M, 9101 West Airport Rd, Willcox, AZ 85643 USA; [Rosalie, Simon M.] Curtin Univ, Sch Physiotherapy & Exercise Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Malone, James M.] Raptor Motorsports, Willcox, AZ USA; [Rosalie, Simon M.] R M, 9101 West Airport Rd, Willcox, AZ 85643 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000460821300001	16	Article; Article		
J	da Rosa Orssatto, Lucas Bet; Cadore, Eduardo Lusa; Andersen, Lars Louis; Diefenthaeler, Fernando								Why Fast Velocity Resistance Training Should Be Prioritized for Elderly People								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	1			105	114		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000407			FEB 2019	2019	Because of recent demographic changes with a greater proportion of elderly people in the world, physical independence among older adults is becoming increasingly more important. This minireview summarizes and discusses neuromuscular adaptations in response to resistance training with different contraction velocities in untrained elderly. Slow and fast velocity training can to a similar extent improve muscle mass and maximal force however fast velocity resistance training is superior for improving power output, explosive force, and functional capacity. Thus, fast velocity resistance training provides more efficient neuromuscular adaptations, increasing simultaneously strength, power explosive force muscle mass, and functional capacity of untrained elderly.		[da Rosa Orssatto, Lucas Bet; Diefenthaeler, Fernando] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Cadore, Eduardo Lusa] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Phys Educ Sch, Exercise Res Lab, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Andersen, Lars Louis] Natl Res Ctr Working Environm, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Andersen, Lars Louis] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Sport Sci, Aalborg, Denmark; [Diefenthaeler, Fernando] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463253600010	58	Article; Article		
J	Till, Kevin; Muir, Bob; Abraham, Andrew; Piggott, Dave; Tee, Jason								A Framework for Decision-Making Within Strength and Conditioning Coaching								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	1			14	26		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000408			FEB 2019	2019	Decision-making is a key factor in developing coach expertise and effectiveness. This article presents a framework for enhancing coach decision-making within strength and conditioning (S&C). Based on theoretical understanding of the athlete (the "who"), S&C training principles and sport demands (the "what"), and learning theories and behavior (the "how"), coaches can enhance S&C practice ("planning, delivering, and reflecting"). In addition, understanding contextual challenges ("context, culture, and politics") and own beliefs, values, and behaviors ("self") must be considered. Recommendations are presented for implementing constructively aligned learning programs based on the decision-making framework for enhancing coach learning and pro-fessional development within S&C.		[Till, Kevin; Muir, Bob; Abraham, Andrew; Piggott, Dave; Tee, Jason] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463253600002	105	Article; Article		
J	Mills, Blair S.; McMaster, Daniel T.; Smith, Brett								Strength Training Recommendations to Improve Scrum Force and Impulse in Rugby Union Forwards								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				41	1			64	74		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000420			FEB 2019	2019	Optimal scrum performance in rugby union requires the forward pack to produce a large sustained coordinated horizontal impulse training horizontal impulse and force for scrummaging is not easily simulated with traditional resistance training exercises (eg., squat, deadlift, and clean). Therefore, it is proposed that the inclusion of heavy horizontally resisted exercises (e.g., sled push and scrum machine) within a given training phase be included to provide a greater transfer of force to the rugby scrum. This article (a) provides an overview of the physical demands and biomechanics of scrummaging, and (b) provides strength training guidelines to improve scrummaging force production.		[Mills, Blair S.; McMaster, Daniel T.; Smith, Brett] Univ Waikato, Fac Hlth Sport & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Mills, Blair S.; McMaster, Daniel T.] New Zealand Rugby, New Zealand All Black Sevens, Mt Maunganui, New Zealand; [McMaster, Daniel T.] Univ Waikato, Fac Hlth Sport & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [McMaster, Daniel T.] New Zealand Rugby, New Zealand All Black Sevens, Mt Maunganui, New Zealand								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000463253600006	58	Article; Article		
J	Nicholls, Scott B.; James, Nic; Bryant, Elizabeth; Wells, Julia								The implementation of performance analysis and feedback within Olympic sport: The performance analyst's perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	1			63	71		10.1177/1747954118808081			FEB 2019	2019	The study considered performance analysis and feedback from the perspective of the performance analyst through the investigation of the 'what', 'how' and 'when' of practice within a selection of Olympic sports. Twenty-three performance analysts (experience 6.4 +/- 4.1 years) engaged in a structured interview (85 +/- 15 min) regarding their processes within applied practice. Likert scales (All the time, Often, Sometimes, Rarely and Never) were used to facilitate cross-sport and environment comparison. The performance analysts highlighted the experience of their coaches as the most prominent feature influencing analysis direction, and time had the greatest impact upon feedback provision. The main analysis techniques used were video, profiling and performance reports. Feedback was delivered primarily either, (1) < 1-h post-performance within sessions lasting < 10-min or (2) the following day within sessions lasting 25 + min. Video feedback was usually coach led; however, data delivery was more evenly distributed between coach and analyst. Very similar processes across the participants were identified, despite a wide variety of sports and participant experience levels. The findings have begun to illustrate practice within elite sport whilst highlighting the importance and need for further practitioner-based investigation regarding the use of performance analysis and feedback within applied contexts.		[Nicholls, Scott B.; James, Nic; Bryant, Elizabeth] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sport Inst, London NW4 4BT, England; [Nicholls, Scott B.; Wells, Julia] Manchester Inst Hlth & Performance, English Inst Sport, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Nicholls, Scott B.] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sport Inst, London NW4 4BT, England								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000456436900007	34	Article; Article		
J	MacMahon, Clare; Bailey, Aisling; Croser, Morag; Weissensteiner, Juanita								Exploring the skill of recruiting in the Australian Football League								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	1			72	81		10.1177/1747954118809775			FEB 2019	2019	The present study was designed to explore the skill of recruiting in the professional Australian Football League, with a particular interest in the approach to decision making and information processing. The research design utilised semi-structured interviews and a survey instrument. A total of 12 participants comprised of 11 active head recruiters representing 11 Australian Football League Clubs, and one former expert Australian Football League recruiter undertook semi-structured, in-depth interviews to provide insight into recruitment decision making. Additionally, all participants completed a survey determining preferences for intuitive and deliberative decision-making styles. A model created represents the identification of four influential factors in the recruitment approach including (a) recruiter background; (b) recruiter attributes; (c) recruiter understanding of team needs and (d) recruiter-coach relationship. In particular, recruiters revealed that the style of decision making they use is influenced by the relationship with the head coach. Recruiting as a stand-alone position is not well understood. This work shows that both intuition and deliberation are used, the extent to which appears to be influenced by the recruiter-coach relationship. This work offers a strong base to further explore recruiting and talent identification in professional sport, and, particularly, how relationships influence decision style and performance.		[MacMahon, Clare] La Trobe Univ, Dept Exercise Sci, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Bailey, Aisling] Swinburne Univ Technol, Dept Sociol, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Croser, Morag] Western Australia Cricket Assoc, East Perth, WA, Australia; [Weissensteiner, Juanita] Australian Inst Sport, Belconnen, ACT, Australia; [Bailey, Aisling] Swinburne Univ Technol, John St, Hawthorn, Vic 3122, Australia								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000456436900008	44	Article; Article		
J	Pote, Lee; Christie, Candice J.								Workloads placed on adolescent cricket players: A pilot study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	1			107	113		10.1177/1747954118810505			FEB 2019	2019	Cricket players nowadays are faced with increased physical demands, and as a result, it is important to manage their workload, particularly to control and predict risk of injury. While this has been investigated at an elite level, few studies have looked at the workloads placed on adolescent cricket players. The purpose of this study was therefore to determine the workloads placed on school boy cricketers, specifically within a South African context. Twelve male school boy cricketers between the ages of 16 and 19 years participated in the study. Match and practice data were collected over a period of 74 days and included number of shuttles run (batsmen), number of deliveries bowled (bowlers) as well as central ratings of perceived exertion (RPE). Injury data were also collected. These data were then used to determine the acute:chronic (a:c) workload ratio (two-week rolling average) as well as session RPE (sRPE). Fast bowlers delivered more balls during matches compared to practices, whereas batsmen ran more shuttles at practices compared to matches. Session RPE was higher for matches compared to practices. There did not appear to be a relationship between workload and injury risk; however, this may have been due to the small sample size. It was concluded that it is important to monitor individual workloads of players. Also, intensities of practices need to be increased to match game demands. Lastly, the study design was effective and the methods used were found to be appropriate for a larger population.		[Pote, Lee; Christie, Candice J.] Rhodes Univ, Dept Human Kinet & Ergonomicsm, POB 94, ZA-6140 Grahamstown, South Africa; [Pote, Lee] Rhodes Univ, Dept Human Kinet & Ergonomicsm, POB 94, ZA-6140 Grahamstown, South Africa								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000456436900012	30	Article; Article		
J	Martin, C.; Bideau, B.; Touzard, P.; Kulpa, R.								Identification of serve pacing strategies during five-set tennis matches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	1			32	42		10.1177/1747954118806682			FEB 2019	2019	This study aims to investigate the prominence of different pacing strategies adopted by male professional tennis players during five-set matches and their relationship with match outcome, ATP ranking and Grand Slam tournament. Fifty five-set matches of the 2014 Grand Slam tournaments were analyzed. First and second serve velocities, percentages of first serve in, and percentages of first and second serve points won were collected for each of the five sets. According to the fluctuations of mean first serve velocity for each of the five sets, players were classified into five types of pacing strategies: 'variable', 'parabolic', 'constant', 'all-out' and 'negative-split'. Professional players mostly used 'variable' pacing strategy (45%), followed by 'parabolic' (20%), 'constant' (18%) and 'all-out' (15%) strategies, which are closely distributed. Finally, 'negative-split' strategy (2%) is infrequently used. The pacing strategy used by players tends to exert an influence on match outcome (P = 0.072). There is no significant association between players' ranking and type of pacing strategy used (P = 0.384). There is no significant association between Grand Slam tournaments and type of pacing strategy used (P = 0.875). Serve velocity and serve points won are significantly decreased in losers, while they are increased or kept constant in winners during the fifth set of the match. 'Negative split', 'variable' and 'parabolic' strategies seem to be the most effective for winning five-set match, while 'all-out' strategy appears ineffective since when players used it, they lost the match in 73% of cases. Moreover, tennis players should consider physical conditioning programs to avoid decreases in serve velocity and percentage during the fifth set of a tennis match.		[Martin, C.; Bideau, B.; Touzard, P.; Kulpa, R.] Univ Rennes 2, M2S Lab, Bruz, France; [Martin, C.] Univ Rennes 2, M2S Lab, ENS Rennes, Ave Robert Schuman, F-35170 Bruz, France								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000456436900004	52	Article; Article		
J	Fitzpatrick, Anna; Stone, Oseph A.; Choppin, Simon; Kelley, John								A simple new method for identifying performance characteristics associated with success in elite tennis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	1			43	50		10.1177/1747954118809089			FEB 2019	2019	Performance analysis and identifying performance characteristics associated with success are of great importance to players and coaches in any sport. However, while large amounts of data are available within elite tennis, very few players employ an analyst or attempt to exploit the data to enhance their performance; this is partly attributable to the considerable time and complex techniques required to interpret these large datasets. Using data from the 2016 and 2017 French Open tournaments, we tested the agreement between the results of a simple new method for identifying important performance characteristics (the Percentage of matches in which the Winner Outscored the Loser, PWOL) and the results of two standard statistical methods to establish the validity of the simple method. Spearman's rank-order correlations between the results of the three methods demonstrated excellent agreement, with all methods identifying the same three performance characteristics (points won of 0-4 rally length, baseline points won and first serve points won) as strongly associated with success. Consequently, we propose that the PWOL method is valid for identifying performance characteristics associated with success in tennis, and is therefore a suitable alternative to more complex statistical methods, as it is simpler to calculate, interpret and contextualise.		[Fitzpatrick, Anna; Choppin, Simon; Kelley, John] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sports Engn Res, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Stone, Oseph A.] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Fitzpatrick, Anna] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Coll Crescent, 5001 Chestnut Court, Sheffield S10 2BP, S Yorkshire, England								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000456436900005	40	Article; Article		
J	Gomes, Daniel T.; Henriques-Rodrigues, Ligia								Swimming performance index based on extreme value theory								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	1			51	62		10.1177/1747954118808068			FEB 2019	2019	The International Swimming Federation has developed a points system that allows comparisons of results between different events. Such system is important for several reasons, since it is used as a criterion to rank swimmers in awards and selection procedures of national teams. The points system is based entirely on the world record of the correspondent event. Since it is based on only one observation, this work aims to suggest a new system, based on the probability distribution of the best performances in each event. Using extreme value theory, such distribution, under certain conditions, converges to a generalized Pareto distribution. The new performance index, based on the peaks over threshold methodology, is obtained based on the exceedance probabilities correspondent to the swimmers' times that exceed a given threshold. We work with 17 officially recognized events in 50 m pool, for each women and men, and considered all-time rankings for all events until 31 December 2016. A study on the adequacy of the proposed generalized Pareto distribution index and a comparison between the performances of Usain Bolt and Michael Phelps are also conducted.		[Gomes, Daniel T.] Brazilian Geog & Stat Inst, Natl Sch Stat, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Henriques-Rodrigues, Ligia] Univ Sao Paulo, Inst Math & Stat, Dept Stat, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Gomes, Daniel T.] Brazilian Geog & Stat Inst, Natl Sch Stat, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000456436900006	24	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Thomas W.; Keane, Karen; Smith, Andrew; Dent, Jack; McShane, Kevin; Payne, Tim; Williams, Lewis; Maguire, Phillip; Marshall, Steven J.; Graham-Smith, Philip								Which anthropometric and lower body power variables are predictive of professional and amateur playing status in male rugby union players?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	1			82	90		10.1177/1747954118805956			FEB 2019	2019	The purpose of this study was to compare anthropometric and lower body power measurements between current professional and amateur male rugby union players. The present study also sought to determine which anthropometric and physical performance variables were predictive of playing standard. Thirty professional and 30 amateur RU players performed Wattbike 6 s maximal effort (WB6S) and countermovement (CMJ) and squat jump (SJ) assessments, anthropometric measures were also taken. Dependant variables recorded and analysed including: body mass, stature, sigma 8 site skinfolds, WB6S absolute and relative peak power, CMJ and SJ average concentric force, jump height, peak velocity, time to peak force, rate of force development (RFD) and absolute and relative peak force and power. Professional players were heavier, taller and leaner than their amateur counterparts (p < 0.05). Professional players performed significantly better in all physical performance measures except CMJ and SJ time to peak force, CMJ RFD and SJ relative peak force. Variables which were predictive of playing standard were: sigma 8 skinfolds, CMJ peak velocity and WB6S absolute and relative peak power (p < 0.05). These findings indicate that the current body of male professional RU players is anthropometrically and physically superior to their amateur counterparts, although not all variables assessed here were predictive of playing standard. Data presented here indicate that sigma 8 skinfolds, WB6S absolute and relative power and CMJ peak velocity are predictive of playing standard, whereas other anthropometric and strength and power variables are not.		[Jones, Thomas W.; Keane, Karen; Dent, Jack; Marshall, Steven J.] Northumbria Univ, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, Tyne & Wear, England; [Smith, Andrew] AS Strength & Conditioning Ltd, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [McShane, Kevin; Payne, Tim; Williams, Lewis; Maguire, Phillip] Newcastle Falcons Rugby Club, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Graham-Smith, Philip] ASPIRE Acad Sports Excellence, Dept Sport Sci, Doha, Qatar; [Jones, Thomas W.] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 8ST, Tyne & Wear, England								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000456436900009	26	Article; Article		
J	Shipherd, Amber M.; Wakefield, Joann C.; Stokowski, Sarah; Filho, Edson								The influence of coach turnover on student-athletes' affective states and team dynamics: An exploratory study in collegiate sports								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	1			97	106		10.1177/1747954118766465			FEB 2019	2019	Coach turnover is frequent, especially in collegiate sports in the United States. To date, however, there is limited research on how coach turnover might affect student-athletes. Accordingly, we aimed to qualitatively explore how coach turnover might influence student-athletes' psychosocial states and team dynamics in collegiate sports. Eleven athletic teams at a Midwestern Division I National Collegiate Athletic Association institution having undergone coach turnover during the past four years participated in the study. Four coaches and 21 student-athletes representing both individual and team sports, as well as two administrative staff members, participated in semi-structured interviews (coaches and administrators) and focus groups (student-athletes). Inductive data analysis revealed four first level themes: coach style and background, athlete affective states, team dynamics, and program culture. Our analysis suggested that, depending on their gender and coaching style, coaches might have a positive or negative impact on athletes' affective states (e.g. positive and negative affect), team dynamics (e.g. cohesion; athlete leadership), and the program culture. Thus, practitioners might facilitate the positive impact of coaching turnover by assessing whether the new coach is a 'good fit' at the individual (micro), team (meso), and environmental (macro) level of analysis.		[Shipherd, Amber M.] Texas A&M Univ Kingsville, Dept Hlth & Kinesiol, Kingsville, TX USA; [Wakefield, Joann C.] Georgia Southern Univ, Sch Hlth & Kinesiol, Statesboro, GA USA; [Stokowski, Sarah] Univ Arkansas, Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, Fayetteville, AR 72701 USA; [Filho, Edson] Univ Cent Lancashire, Sch Psychol, Darwin Bldg 114, Preston PR1 2HE, Lancs, England; [Filho, Edson] Univ Cent Lancashire, Sch Psychol, Darwin Bldg 114, Preston PR1 2HE, Lancs, England								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000456436900011	50	Article; Article		
J	Vial, Shayne; Cochrane, Jodie; Blazevich, Anthony J.; Croft, Ames L.								Using the trajectory of the shuttlecock as a measure of performance accuracy in the badminton short serve								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				14	1			91	96		10.1177/1747954118812662			FEB 2019	2019	Accuracy of a projectile is typically quantified as the proportion of successful target hits, or the distance an object finishes from the target. Serving in sports such as badminton differs since the shuttlecock is usually intercepted by the opponent before landing on the target (i.e. court surface). Therefore, landing accuracy measures are inappropriate and a new method of determining accuracy of the serve is needed. During interviews, elite coaches and players described an accurate short serve as crossing the net with low clearance and having an apex before the net. Three-dimensional trajectory of the shuttlecock was therefore tracked from eight national-level players who performed 30 short serves in simulated match conditions (i.e. with an opponent); 27% of all serves were classified as 'accurate', 27% of serves as 'inaccurate', 21% with a 'good apex' position, and 25% with a 'good clearance' height. The proposed method of assessing shuttlecock trajectory as a measure of accuracy could be adopted by coaches and players to assess and improve short serve accuracy. Furthermore, this method is more representative of a match environment since the shuttlecock rarely lands because the opponent returns the serve.		[Vial, Shayne; Cochrane, Jodie; Blazevich, Anthony J.; Croft, Ames L.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Perth, WA, Australia; [Vial, Shayne] Dept Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000456436900010	18	Article; Article		
J	Islam, Muhammad Q.								Local Development Effect of Sports Facilities and Sports Teams: Case Studies Using Synthetic Control Method								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	2			242	260		10.1177/1527002517731874			FEB 2019	2019	Studies of the economic benefit of sports franchises to local economies typically utilize panel regression procedures to estimate the effect on variables of interest. An alternative to regression-type estimation is to adopt a case study approach utilizing the synthetic control method. We utilize this approach to study the effect of the National Football League (NFL) expansion into three cities. Specifically, we ask, how the presence of an NFL team in selected cities affected the time path of employment growth in those cities. Results reinforce the dominant view that presence of a sports franchise does not significantly affect the time path of employment.		[Islam, Muhammad Q.] St Louis Univ, Dept Econ, 3674 Lindell Blvd, St Louis, MO 63108 USA; [Islam, Muhammad Q.] St Louis Univ, Dept Econ, 3674 Lindell Blvd, St Louis, MO 63108 USA								20							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000454941700005	24	Article; Article		
J	Giddings, Lisa A.; Haupert, Michael								Earning Like a Woman: Salaries versus Marginal Revenue Products in the AAGBPL and MLB: 1947-1952								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	2			198	217		10.1177/1527002518758145			FEB 2019	2019	This article exploits heretofore unexplored data from the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League that existed in the United States from 1943 to 1954 to measure and compare the economic loss to male and female professional baseball players. While female ballplayers earned a fraction of male salaries, they captured nearly twice as much of the revenues that they generated, indicating a smaller degree of exploitation. We hypothesize that in addition to the difference in structures of the two leagues, reservation wages explain the large difference in exploitation rates between the male and female players.		[Giddings, Lisa A.] Univ Wisconsin, 1725 State St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Haupert, Michael] Univ Wisconsin, Econ, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Giddings, Lisa A.] Univ Wisconsin, 1725 State St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA								3							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000454941700003	29	Article; Article		
J	Weimar, Daniel; Rocha, Claudio M.								Does Distance Matter? Geographical Distance and Domestic Support for Mega Sports Events								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	2			286	313		10.1177/1527002517724505			FEB 2019	2019	Residential support is one key factor that increases the probability of a positive outcome of mega events. Especially, pre-event support seems important, since hosting the event often requires public consensus. Within the discussion of determinants of pre-event support, the distance between a resident's home (district) and the event area has been neglected so far. To explore the spatial nature of event support, representative survey data (n = 900) from the 2016 Olympic Games is analyzed using ordered probit and spatial regression models. Estimates reveal a lower probability of high support for residents living close to the main event area. Moreover, the rate of marginal changes in the probability of support decreases with decreasing distance to other areas.		[Weimar, Daniel] Univ Duisburg Essen, Mercator Sch Management, Lotharstr 65, D-47057 Duisburg, Germany; [Rocha, Claudio M.] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling, Scotland; [Weimar, Daniel] Univ Duisburg Essen, Mercator Sch Management, Lotharstr 65, D-47057 Duisburg, Germany								25							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000454941700007	84	Article; Article		
J	Abinzano, Isabel; Muga, Luis; Santamaria, Rafael								Hidden Power of Trading Activity: The FLB in Tennis Betting Exchanges								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	2			261	285		10.1177/1527002517731875			FEB 2019	2019	This article examines the impact of trading activity on the favorite-long shot bias (FLB) in tennis betting exchanges, using direct measures such as betting volume, average bet, and standard deviation of the odds. According to predictions based on disagreement models, odds mispricing is positively associated with trading volume but negatively associated with the presence of institutional bettors. The FLB is also positively related to the degree of uncertainty in the market. The existence of two simultaneous markets (a "main" and an "alternative" market) in this specific sports-betting environment has enabled us to observe that the relative amount of attention given to the favorite versus that given to the long shot is positively associated with the FLB. Finally, information is more rapidly incorporated into the odds in the market that receives more attention from bettors, an effect that is intensified by the arbitrage and hedging that occurs between the two markets.		[Abinzano, Isabel; Muga, Luis; Santamaria, Rafael] Univ Publ Navarra, Financial Econ, Pamplona, Navarra, Spain; [Abinzano, Isabel; Muga, Luis; Santamaria, Rafael] INARBE, Pamplona, Navarra, Spain; [Muga, Luis] Univ Publ Navarra, Campus Arrosadia S-N, Pamplona 31006, Navarra, Spain								5							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000454941700006	46	Article; Article		
J	Maxcy, Joel; Wicker, Pamela; Prinz, Joachim								Happiness as a Reward for Torture: Is Participation in a Long-Distance Triathlon a Rational Choice?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	2			177	197		10.1177/1527002518758144			FEB 2019	2019	This study applies prospect theory to an assessment of actual behavior. Loss aversion, reference dependence, and diminishing sensitivity are conceptualized through survey respondents' perceptions of physical and mental torture during training for and competition in long-distance triathlons. Regression results show that frequent thoughts of giving up during the race negatively affect happiness after the race, while mental torture during training and race is negatively associated with happiness in the weeks after the race. Satisfaction with race outcome positively affects happiness, suggesting that achieving individual goals is more important than absolute performance in terms of finishing times and ranks.		[Maxcy, Joel] Drexel Univ, Ctr Sport Management, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Wicker, Pamela] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Sport Econ & Sport Management, Sportpk Muengersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany; [Prinz, Joachim] Univ Duisburg Essen, Dept Managerial Econ, Duisburg, Germany; [Wicker, Pamela] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Sport Econ & Sport Management, Sportpk Muengersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								13							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000454941700002	32	Article; Article		
J	de Castro, Marcelo Peduzzi; Fonseca, Pedro; Morais, Sara Tribuzi; Borgonovo-Santos, Marcio; Cruz Coelho, Eduardo Filipe; Ribeiro, Daniel Cury; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo								Functional shoulder ratios with high velocities of shoulder internal rotation are most sensitive to determine shoulder rotation torque imbalance: a cross-sectional study with elite handball players and controls								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	1			39	50		10.1080/14763141.2017.1380222			JAN 2 2019	2019	The aim of the present study was to determine which approach to calculating shoulder ratios is the most sensitive for determining shoulder torque imbalance in handball players. Twenty-six participants (handball athletes, n = 13; healthy controls, n = 13) performed isokinetic concentric and eccentric shoulder internal rotation (IR) and external rotation (ER) assessment at 60, 180 and 300 degrees/s. We used eight approaches to calculating shoulder ratios: four concentric (i.e. concentric ER torque divided by concentric IR torque), and four functional (i.e. eccentric ER torque divided by concentric IR torque) at the velocities of 60, 180 and 300 degrees/s for both IR and ER, and combining 60 degrees/s of ER and 300 degrees/s of IR. A three factorial ANOVA (factors: shoulder ratios, upper limb sides, and groups) along with Tukey's post-hoc analysis, and effect sizes were calculated. The findings suggested the functional shoulder ratio combining 60 degrees/s of ER and 300 degrees/s of IR is the most sensitive to detect differences between upper limbs for handball players, and between players and controls for the dominant side. The functional shoulder ratio combining 60 degrees/s of ER with 300 degrees/s of IR seems to present advantages over the other approaches for identifying upper limb asymmetries and differences in shoulder torque balance related to throwing.		[de Castro, Marcelo Peduzzi; Fonseca, Pedro; Morais, Sara Tribuzi; Borgonovo-Santos, Marcio; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [de Castro, Marcelo Peduzzi; Borgonovo-Santos, Marcio; Cruz Coelho, Eduardo Filipe; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Fac Sports, Porto, Portugal; [de Castro, Marcelo Peduzzi] Neuromusculoskeletal Assessment & Clin Biomech La, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Cruz Coelho, Eduardo Filipe] Porto Futbol Club, Med Dept, Porto, Portugal; [Ribeiro, Daniel Cury] Univ Otago, Sch Physiotherapy, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, Dunedin, New Zealand; [de Castro, Marcelo Peduzzi] Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [de Castro, Marcelo Peduzzi] Univ Porto, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Fac Sports, Porto, Portugal; [de Castro, Marcelo Peduzzi] Neuromusculoskeletal Assessment & Clin Biomech La, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								7							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000458883700004	35	Article; Article		
J	Sato, Nahoko; Nunome, Hiroyuki; Hopper, Luke S.; Ikegami, Yasuo								Ankle taping can reduce external ankle joint moments during drop landings on a tilted surface								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	1			28	38		10.1080/14763141.2017.1375552			JAN 2 2019	2019	Ankle taping is commonly used to prevent ankle sprains. However, kinematic assessments investigating the biomechanical effects of ankle taping have provided inconclusive results. This study aimed to determine the effect of ankle taping on the external ankle joint moments during a drop landing on a tilted surface at 25 degrees. Twenty-five participants performed landings on a tilted force platform that caused ankle inversion with and without ankle taping. Landing kinematics were captured using a motion capture system. External ankle inversion moment, the angular impulse due to the medio-lateral and vertical components of ground reaction force (GRF) and their moment arm lengths about the ankle joint were analysed. The foot plantar inclination relative to the ground was assessed. In the taping condition, the foot plantar inclination and ankle inversion angular impulse were reduced significantly compared to that of the control. The only component of the external inversion moment to change significantly in the taped condition was a shortened medio-lateral GRF moment arm length. It can be assumed that the ankle taping altered the foot plantar inclination relative to the ground, thereby shortening the moment arm of medio-lateral GRF that resulted in the reduced ankle inversion angular impulse.		[Sato, Nahoko] Nagoya Gakuin Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Rehabil Sci, Seto, Japan; [Nunome, Hiroyuki] Fukuoka Univ, Fac Sports & Hlth Sci, Fukuoka, Fukuoka, Japan; [Hopper, Luke S.] Edith Cowan Univ, Western Australian Acad Performing Arts, Perth, WA, Australia; [Ikegami, Yasuo] Aichi Shukutoku Univ, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Nagakute, Aichi, Japan; [Sato, Nahoko] Nagoya Gakuin Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Rehabil Sci, Seto, Japan								12							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000458883700003	25	Article; Article		
J	Funken, Johannes; Heinrich, Kai; Willwacher, Steffen; Mueller, Ralf; Boecker, Jonas; Hobara, Hiroaki; Brueggemann, Gert-Peter; Potthast, Wolfgang								Leg amputation side determines performance in curve sprinting: a case study on a Paralympic medalist								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	1			75	87		10.1080/14763141.2017.1384051			JAN 2 2019	2019	The lower limb kinetics of curve sprinting in amputees are not well described in the literature, particularly with respect to the effect of the side of amputation. This is an issue due to the importance of the knowledge for prosthetic design and classification of athletes. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the influence of side of amputation on curve sprinting performance in athletes with a unilateral leg amputation. A three-dimensional motion analysis system (Vicon), four force plates (Kistler) and a modified mathematical human model (ALASKA) were used to compare clockwise and counter clockwise curve sprinting lower limb kinematics and kinetics of a Paralympic medalist with a left-sided knee exarticular amputation. Results reveal that vertical ground reaction force application and total vertical impulse were lower when the affected limb was at the inside of the curve. The unaffected limb showed joint mechanics different to those established for non-amputee athletes and might contribute better to propulsion when being the inside limb. Curve sprinting biomechanics and the ability to attain high radial velocities are directly dependent on the side of amputation relative to the curve direction in a unilateral amputee athlete of highest performance level.		[Funken, Johannes; Heinrich, Kai; Willwacher, Steffen; Mueller, Ralf; Boecker, Jonas; Brueggemann, Gert-Peter; Potthast, Wolfgang] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany; [Hobara, Hiroaki] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Human Informat Res Inst, Tokyo, Japan; [Funken, Johannes] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Biomech & Orthopaed, Cologne, Germany								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000458883700007	19	Article; Article		
J	Lorenzetti, Silvio; Ammann, Fabian; Windmueller, Sabrina; Haberle, Ramona; Mueller, Soeren; Gross, Micah; Pluss, Michael; Pluss, Stefan; Schodler, Berni; Huebner, Klaus								Conditioning exercises in ski jumping: biomechanical relationship of squat jumps, imitation jumps, and hill jumps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	1			63	74		10.1080/14763141.2017.1383506			JAN 2 2019	2019	As hill jumps are very time-consuming, ski jumping athletes often perform various imitation jumps during training. The performed jumps should be similar to hill jumps, but a direct comparison of the kinetic and kinematic parameters has not been performed yet. Therefore, this study aimed to correlate 11 common parameters during hill jumps (Oberstdorf Germany), squat jumps (wearing indoor shoes), and various imitation jumps (rolling 4 degrees, rolling flat, static; jumping equipment or indoor shoes) on a custom-built instrumented vehicle with a catch by the coach. During the performed jumps, force and video data of the take-off of 10 athletes were measured. The imitation and squat jumps were then ranked. The main difference between the hill jumps and the imitation and squat jumps is the higher maximal force loading rate during the hill jumps. Imitation jumps performed on a rolling platform, on flat ground were the most similar to hill jumps in terms of the force-time, and leg joint kinematic properties. Thus, non-hill jumps with a technical focus should be performed from a rolling platform with a flat inrun with normal indoor shoes or jumping equipment, and high normal force loading rates should be the main focus of imitation training.		[Lorenzetti, Silvio; Windmueller, Sabrina; Haberle, Ramona; Pluss, Michael; Pluss, Stefan] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Inst Biomech, Zurich, Switzerland; [Ammann, Fabian; Schodler, Berni] Swiss Ski, Muri Bei Bern, Switzerland; [Mueller, Soeren] IAT Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany; [Gross, Micah; Huebner, Klaus] Swiss Fed Inst Sports Magglingen, Magglingen, Switzerland; [Lorenzetti, Silvio] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Inst Biomech, Zurich, Switzerland								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000458883700006	19	Article; Article		
J	Simperingham, Kim David; Cronin, John B.; Pearson, Simon N.; Ross, Angus								Reliability of horizontal force-velocity-power profiling during short sprint-running accelerations using radar technology								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	1			88	99		10.1080/14763141.2017.1386707			JAN 2 2019	2019	Radar technology can be used to perform horizontal force-velocity-power profiling during sprint-running. The aim of this study was to determine the reliability of radar-derived profiling results from short sprint accelerations. Twenty-seven participants completed three 30 m sprints (intra-day analysis), and nine participants completed the testing session on four separate days (inter-day analysis). The majority of radar-derived kinematic and kinetic descriptors of short sprint performance had acceptable intra-day and inter-day reliability [intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) >= 0.75 and coefficient of variation (CV) <= 10%], but split times over the initial 10 m and some variables that include a horizontal force component had only moderate relative reliability (ICC = 0.49-0.74). Comparing the average of two sprint trials between days resulted in acceptable reliability for all variables except the relative slope of the force-velocity relationship (S-Fvrel; ICC = 0.74). Practitioners should average sprint test results over at least two trials to reduce measurement variability, particularly for outcome variables with a horizontal force component and for sprint distances of less than 10 m from the start.		[Simperingham, Kim David; Cronin, John B.; Pearson, Simon N.; Ross, Angus] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Simperingham, Kim David; Ross, Angus] High Performance Sport New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Cronin, John B.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Exercise Biomed & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Pearson, Simon N.] Queensland Acad Sport, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Simperingham, Kim David] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Simperingham, Kim David] High Performance Sport New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand								57							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000458883700008	29	Article; Article		
J	Warmenhoven, John; Cobley, Stephen; Draper, Conny; Harrison, Andrew; Bargary, Norma; Smith, Richard								Bivariate functional principal components analysis: considerations for use with multivariate movement signatures in sports biomechanics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	1			10	27		10.1080/14763141.2017.1384050			JAN 2 2019	2019	Sporting performance is often investigated through graphical observation of key technical variables that are representative of whole movements. The presence of differences between athletes in such variables has led to terms such as movement signatures being used. These signatures can be multivariate (multiple time-series observed concurrently), and also be composed of variables measured relative to different scales. Analytical techniques from areas of statistics such as Functional Data Analysis (FDA) present a practical alternative for analysing multivariate signatures. When applied to concurrent bivariate time-series multivariate functional principal components analysis (referred to as bivariate fPCA or bfPCA in this paper) has demonstrated preliminary application in biomechanical contexts. Despite this, given the infancy of bfPCA in sports biomechanics there are still necessary considerations for its use with non-conventional or complex bivariate structures. This paper focuses on the application of bfPCA to the force-angle graph in on-water rowing, which is a bivariate structure composed of variables with different units. A normalisation approach is proposed to investigate and standardise differences in variability between the two variables. The results of bfPCA applied to the non-normalised data and normalised data are then compared. Considerations and recommendations for the application of bfPCA in this context are also provided.		[Warmenhoven, John; Cobley, Stephen; Draper, Conny; Smith, Richard] Univ Sydney, Dept Exercise & Sports Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Cumberland Campus, Lidcombe, Australia; [Harrison, Andrew] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Limerick, Ireland; [Bargary, Norma] Univ Limerick, Dept Math & Stat, Limerick, Ireland; [Warmenhoven, John] Univ Sydney, Dept Exercise & Sports Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Cumberland Campus, Lidcombe, Australia								24							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000458883700002	42	Article; Article		
J	Monaco, Edoardo; Redler, Andrea; Fabbri, Mattia; Proietti, Lorenzo; Gaj, Edoardo; Daggett, Matthew; Ferretti, Andrea								Isokinetic flexion strength recovery after ACL reconstruction: a comparison between all inside graft-link technique and full tibial tunnel technique								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	1			132	135		10.1080/00913847.2018.1537535			JAN 2 2019	2019	Introduction: Recently, a new minimally invasive single bundle technique for anatomic ACL reconstruction has been described, called the 'All-Inside graft-link technique'. One of the advantages of this procedure is the reduced morbidity at the donor site as the graft choice is the quadrupled semitendinosus, thus sparing the gracilis tendon. The aim of this study was to evaluate isokinetic flexion strength recovery in patients who underwent a gracilis sparing technique compared to those with a full-tibial tunnel technique using a doubled gracilis and semitendinosus tendons (DGST) graft. Methods: Patients were divided into two groups: Group A (22 patients) who underwent ACL reconstruction performed with an All-Inside graft-link technique; Group B (22 patients) who underwent ACL reconstruction with an Out-In technique and DGST graft. At a mean follow-up of 13 months, quadriceps and hamstring isokinetic peak torque deficits were recorded. Results: In group A, the mean side to side peak torque flexion difference between the operated and non-operated limbs was -3% and the mean torque at 30 degrees was -7.5% at high angular velocity (180 degrees/sec); the mean peak flexion torque was 7.2% and the mean torque at 30 degrees was 3.1% at low angular velocity (60 degrees/sec). In group B, the mean side to side peak flexion torque was -3.5% and the mean torque at 30 degrees was -7.6% at high angular velocity (180 degrees/sec); the mean peak flexion torque was -7.2% and the mean torque at 30 degrees was -11% at low angular velocity (60 degrees/sec). A statistically significant difference was found between the two groups at lower angular velocity both for the mean peak flexion torque and the mean torque at 30 degrees (p = 0.009), with better results in the study group. Discussion/conclusion: Gracilis sparing technique is a minimally invasive technique for ACL reconstruction and yielded a significantly better flexion strength recovery at lower angular velocity compared to a full tibial tunnel technique with DGST for ACL reconstruction.		[Monaco, Edoardo; Redler, Andrea; Fabbri, Mattia; Proietti, Lorenzo; Gaj, Edoardo; Ferretti, Andrea] Univ Roma La Sapienza, St Andrea Hosp, Kirk Kilgour Sports Injury Ctr, Via Grottarossa 1035-1039, Rome, Italy; [Daggett, Matthew] Kansas City Univ Med & Biosci, Kansas City, MO USA; [Monaco, Edoardo] Univ Roma La Sapienza, St Andrea Hosp, Kirk Kilgour Sports Injury Ctr, Via Grottarossa 1035-1039, Rome, Italy								18							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000457496900020	18	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Xu; Dhawan, Vikas; Zhao, Shuming; Yu, Yadong; Shao, Xinzhong; Zhang, Guisheng								Treatment of Bennett fractures with tension-band wiring through a small incision under loupes and a headlight								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	1			122	128		10.1080/00913847.2018.1530576			JAN 2 2019	2019	Purpose: The aim of the study was to present a novel treatment strategy for Bennett fractures using a tension-band wiring technique performed through a small incision with loupes and a headlight. Additionally, this study compared this technique with the conventional percutaneous pinning technique. Methods: Between January 2014 and January 2017, the tension-band wiring technique was used in 37 patients with Bennett fractures (study group). The range of motion, pinch and grip strengths, and hand function were assessed at the final follow-up. A control group comprising 35 patients treated with the percutaneous pinning technique was included in the study for comparison. A p-value <0.05 was considered statistically significant. (Clinical Trial Registration number: ISRCTN64894535 at ) Results: No fixation failure or infection occurred in either group. Radiographic fracture healing was achieved in all cases. Follow-up lasted over 1 year. The mean Kapandji opposition score was 9.31 (range 8-10) points in the study group and 8.45 (range 7-10) points in the control group (p < 0.05). The mean Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand score was 1.06 (range 0-2) in the study group and 1.77 (range 0-3) in the control group (p < 0.05). The mean Smith and Cooney Score were 90 (range 80-100) in the study group and 85 (range 75-100) in the control group (p < 0.05). Conclusions: The tension-band wiring technique using loupes and headlights enables reduction and fixation of Bennett fractures under direct visualization of the deep operative field. Restoration of thumb function using the tension-band wiring technique is significantly better than that observed with the conventional percutaneous pinning technique.		[Zhang, Xu; Yu, Yadong; Shao, Xinzhong; Zhang, Guisheng] Hebei Med Univ, Dept Hand Surg, Hosp 3, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, Peoples R China; [Dhawan, Vikas] Univ Kentucky, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Med, Lexington, KY USA; [Zhao, Shuming] Orthopaed Hosp Xingtai, Dept Orthopaed, Xingtai, Hebei, Peoples R China; [Shao, Xinzhong] Hebei Med Univ, Dept Hand Surg, Hosp 3, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, Peoples R China								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000457496900018	31	Article; Article		
J	Huber, Raphael; Viecelli, Claudio; Bizzini, Mario; Friesenbichler, Bernd; Dohm-Acker, Markus; Rosenheck, Thomas; Harder, Laurent; Maffiuletti, Nicola A.								Knee extensor and flexor strength before and after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction in a large sample of patients: influence of graft type								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	1			85	90		10.1080/00913847.2018.1526627			JAN 2 2019	2019	Objective: Hamstring and patellar tendon autografts are the most frequently-used graft types for anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction, with no consensus on their respective effects on thigh muscle strength. The objective of this study was to re-examine isokinetic knee extensor and flexor strength before and after ACL reconstruction with patellar and hamstring tendon grafts using a single-center and a relatively large database, where surgical, rehabilitation and testing procedures were strictly standardized for all patients. Methods: A total of 464 patients with a unilateral ACL rupture underwent arthroscopic ACL reconstruction with either patellar or hamstring tendon grafts. Isokinetic concentric strength was evaluated prior to surgery and at 5- and 9-month postoperative follow-ups in different patient subgroups (n = 140, 464 and 215, respectively). Results: Knee extensor strength was lower in patients operated with the patellar tendon graft at the 5-month (p < 0.05) but not at the 9-month follow-up. Knee flexor strength was lower in patients operated with the hamstring tendon graft at both postoperative time points (p < 0.05). The prevalence of quadriceps weakness was high (66-91%) in both patient groups at both follow-ups. Conclusion: Overall, postoperative recovery of thigh muscle function seems to be better with the patellar than with the hamstring tendon graft due to the fact that both, knee extensor and flexor strength, were more impaired after ACL reconstruction with the hamstring tendon autograft.		[Huber, Raphael; Viecelli, Claudio; Bizzini, Mario; Friesenbichler, Bernd; Dohm-Acker, Markus; Rosenheck, Thomas; Harder, Laurent; Maffiuletti, Nicola A.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland; [Maffiuletti, Nicola A.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland								39							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000457496900015	41	Article; Article		
J	Hecimovich, Mark; King, Doug; Dempsey, Alasdair; Gittins, Mason; Murphy, Myles								In situ use of the King-Devick eye tracking test and changes seen with sport-related concussion: saccadic and blinks counts								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	1			78	84		10.1080/00913847.2018.1525261			JAN 2 2019	2019	Objectives: Sport-related concussion (SRC) can result in impaired oculomotor function. Oculomotor performance, measured utilizing the King-Devick/Eye Tracking test (K-D/ET), is reported to be able to identify sub-optimal brain function. The objectives of the study were to determine the diagnostic accuracy of the K-D/ET in identifying SRC occurring from game participation and to perform a comparative analysis on saccade and blink counts for each K-D card individually and total counts between baseline and post-concussion. Methods: Nineteen male Australian Football players were assessed on the K-D/ET test. Those suspected of having SRC secondary to a head impact were also tested. Results: Participants recorded a slower time on the third (20.2 +/- 4.6 s) screen when compared with the first (p = 0.0424) and second (p = 0.0150) screens. The number of blinks was higher on the third (2.9 +/- 2.9) when compared with the second (p = 0.0057) screen. There was decrease of the K-D/ET total times between pre- and post-game (p = 0.1769). Participants who sustained a head impact recorded slower mean total K-D time (p = 0.7322), fewer mean total saccades (p = 0.0112), and more mean blinks (p = 0.8678) compared with their baseline scores. The assessment of blinks was the most sensitive measure for potential SRC (0.67). The K-D/ET duration was the most specific measure for potential SRC (0.88). An increase in the number of blinks had a fair specificity of 0.69. Conclusion: The rapid number-naming component of the K-D test is an assessment tool which quantifies impairment to oculomotor function and has been validated as a diagnostic tool for SRC. The clinical usefulness of the eye tracking component of the K-D/ET test is that it may be an effective method to assess concussions with the eye tracking component serving as a measure of progression and return to play. However, more research is required at the adult and youth level.		[Hecimovich, Mark] Univ Northern Iowa, Athlet Training, Cedar Falls, IA 50614 USA; [Hecimovich, Mark; Dempsey, Alasdair; Gittins, Mason] Murdoch Univ, Sch Psychol & Exercise Sci, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [King, Doug] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [King, Doug] Univ New England, Dept Sci & Technol, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [Murphy, Myles] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Physiotherapy, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Hecimovich, Mark] Univ Northern Iowa, Athlet Training, Cedar Falls, IA 50614 USA								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000457496900014	39	Article; Article		
J	Rauck, Ryan C.; Nwachukwu, Benedict U.; Allen, Answorth A.; Warren, Russell F.; Altchek, David W.; Williams, Riley J.								Outcome of isolated posterior cruciate ligament reconstruction at mean 6.3-year follow up: a consecutive case series								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	1			60	64		10.1080/00913847.2018.1520053			JAN 2 2019	2019	Objectives: There is a paucity of reporting on surgical outcomes of isolated posterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (PCLR). We hypothesize that isolated PCL injuries failing nonoperative treatment achieve good outcomes and are able to return to sport following PCLR. Methods: A retrospective analysis was performed to identify patients with isolated PCL injuries that underwent reconstruction between 2001 and 2014. Patients with multi-ligamentous injury or another concomitant knee pathology were excluded. Medical records were reviewed for demographic, clinical and operative data. Patients were contacted for administration of a telephone-based questionnaire which included the International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC) Subjective Knee Evaluation form, Lysholm-Tegner scales, Marx activity scale (MAS), return to sport status, and patient satisfaction instruments. Results: A total of 15 isolated PCL reconstructions in 14 patients with a mean age of 27.5 years (range 17-43) met the study inclusion criteria; mean follow up was 6.3 years (range 1.4-15.2). Pre-operatively, the primary complaint was knee instability in all patients; on physical examination, lack of a firm end point during posterior drawer testing was found in 93% (14/15) of the knees. In total, 12 of 15 knees underwent transtibial, single-bundle PCLR and three of 15 underwent tibial inlay, double bundle PCLR. Graft types included: quadriceps autograft (7/15), Achilles allograft (6/15), and hamstring autograft (2/15). There were no graft failures in our patient cohort. At most recent follow up the mean scores respectively on the IKDC form, Lysholm-Tegner scales and MAS were (standard deviation): 77.3 (16.5), 83.1 (17.9), 6.13 (2.6), and 7.1 (6.0). All fourteen patients were athletes prior to their injury and 79% (11/14) returned to sport and overall patient satisfaction was 9.2/10. Conclusions: Isolated PCLR provides good outcomes at mean medium-term follow up with restoration of function, high rate of return to sport and overall patient satisfaction.		[Rauck, Ryan C.; Nwachukwu, Benedict U.; Allen, Answorth A.; Warren, Russell F.; Altchek, David W.; Williams, Riley J.] Hosp Special Surg, Sports Med & Shoulder Serv, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA; [Rauck, Ryan C.] Hosp Special Surg, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000457496900011	27	Article; Article		
J	Bauer, Pascal; Henni, Samir; Doerr, Oliver; Bauer, Timm; Hamm, Christian W.; Most, Astrid								High prevalence of vitamin D insufficiency in professional handball athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				47	1			71	77		10.1080/00913847.2018.1520055			JAN 2 2019	2019	Objectives: Vitamin D affects multiple body functions through the regulation of gene expression. In sports medicine, its influence on musculoskeletal health and performance is of particular interest. Vitamin D insufficiency might decrease athletic performance and increase the risk of musculoskeletal injuries. Several studies have demonstrated vitamin D deficiency in professional athletes; however, the prevalence of vitamin D insufficiency in professional handball players is yet unknown. Methods: The study was planned as a prospective, non-interventional study. We examined 70 male elite handball athletes (first league) in a pre-competition medical assessment in July. Age, height, weight, body mass index, 25-OH vitamin D, calcium, and parathyroid hormone were evaluated, and a sun exposure score was calculated. Players were then divided into two groups of vitamin D levels: insufficient (<30 ng/mL) and sufficient (>= 30 ng/mL). Results: The mean 25-OH vitamin D level of the 70 players was 33.5 +/- 10.9 ng/mL (median 32.2, IQR 26.5-38.9 ng/mL). Thirty-nine (55.7%) had sufficient and 31 (44.3%) insufficient levels. Athletes with sufficient vitamin D levels had significantly lower parathyroid hormone levels than athletes with insufficiency (24.9 +/- 12.1 vs. 33.5 +/- 15.1 ng/mL, p = 0.02). All other parameters evaluated demonstrated no significant difference between the two groups. Conclusion: Vitamin D insufficiency is a common finding in professional handball athletes even in summer, which might negatively affect physical performance. Furthermore, it might lead to an increased risk of musculoskeletal injuries and infections. This should be evaluated in further studies.		[Bauer, Pascal; Doerr, Oliver; Bauer, Timm; Hamm, Christian W.; Most, Astrid] Univ Klinikum Giessen, Med Klin 1, Kardiol & Angiol, Giessen, Germany; [Henni, Samir] Ctr Hosp Univ, Explorat Fonct Vasc, Angers, France; [Hamm, Christian W.] Kerckhoff Klin, Kardiol, Bad Nauheim, Germany; [Bauer, Pascal] Univ Klinikum Giessen, Med Klin 1, Abt Kardiol & Angiol, D-35390 Giessen, Germany								23							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000457496900013	42	Article; Article		
J	Carroll, Kevin M.; Wagle, John P.; Sato, Kimitake; DeWeese, Brad H.; Mizuguchi, Satoshi; Stone, Michael H.								Reliability of a commercially available and algorithm-based kinetic analysis software compared to manual-based software								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				18	1			1	9		10.1080/14763141.2017.1372514			JAN 2 2019	2019	There is a need for reliable analysis techniques for kinetic data for coaches and sport scientists who employ athlete monitoring practices. The purpose of the study was: (1) to determine intra- and inter-rater reliability within a manual-based kinetic analysis program; and (2) to determine test-retest reliability of an algorithm-based kinetic analysis program. Five independent raters used a manual analysis program to analyse 100 isometric mid-thigh pull (IMTP) trials obtained from previously collected data. Each trial was analysed three times. The same IMTP trials were analysed using an algorithm-based analysis software. Variables measured were peak force, rate of force development from 0 to 50 ms (RFD50) and RFD from 0 to 200 ms (RFD200). Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) and coefficient of variation (CV) were used to assess intra- and inter-rater reliability. Nearly perfect reliability was observed for the manual-based (ICC > 0.92). However, poor intra- and inter-rater CV was observed for RFD (CV > 16.25% and CV > 32.27%, respectively). The algorithm-based method resulted in perfect reliability in all measurements (ICC = 1.0, CV = 0%). While manual methods of kinetic analysis may provide sufficient reliability, the perfect reliability observed within the algorithm-based method in the current study suggest it is a superior method for use in athlete monitoring programs.		[Carroll, Kevin M.; Wagle, John P.; Sato, Kimitake; DeWeese, Brad H.; Mizuguchi, Satoshi; Stone, Michael H.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN 37614 USA; [Carroll, Kevin M.] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN 37614 USA								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000458883700001	22	Article; Article		
J	van Rijn, Mark; Kristal, Samuel; Henseler, Jorg								Why do all good things come to an end? An inquiry into the discontinuation of sport sponsor-sponsee relationships								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	2			224	241		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2018-0010			2019	2019	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to explore the reasons for the discontinuation of sports sponsor-sponsee relationships and categorize them. Despite the negative outcomes of a sponsorship dissolution, research on this topic is rather scarce. Design/methodology/approach - The paper relies on an analysis of 24 historical cases and 19 in-depth interviews focusing on the Dutch soccer league. Several sponsorship disruptors are identified and clustered into four categories. Findings - The four categories for sponsorship dissolution are the following: sponsor-related factors, sponsee-related factors, inter-relational factors and external factors. In total, ten sponsorship disruptors are identified: insufficient value creation, objectives achieved, sports results, signal to society, exclusivity, negativity, personal relationship, changed marketing strategy, financial situation and legislation and regulation. Research limitations/implications - This study primarily investigates soccer sponsorship cases. Future research could investigate other sponsorship areas, which could yield different reasons for sponsorship termination. Practical implications - Practitioners are advised to view the sponsorship relationship as a strategic alliance, rather than a resource, from the beginning of the sponsorship. A solid relational framework is needed, which is built around the elements of trust, commitment and collaborative communication. If such a foundation does not exist or has eroded, the sponsorship relationship is fragile and can be endangered by various factors. Originality/value - This study uses inductive reasoning to devise a framework that enables sponsees to anticipate when sponsors are likely to discontinue their sponsorship such that the sponsees can take actions accordingly. Apart from validating existing reasons for sponsorship dissolution, this research also presents novel and previously undiscovered sponsorship disruptors.		[van Rijn, Mark] Mars, Dept Mkt, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Kristal, Samuel; Henseler, Jorg] Univ Twente, Fac Engn Technol, Dept Design Prod & Management, Enschede, Netherlands; [Henseler, Jorg] Univ Nova Lisboa, Nova Informat Management Sch, Lisbon, Portugal; [Henseler, Jorg] Univ Twente, Fac Engn Technol, Dept Design Prod & Management, Enschede, Netherlands; [Henseler, Jorg] Univ Nova Lisboa, Nova Informat Management Sch, Lisbon, Portugal								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000467879300002	40	Article; Article		
J	Ribeiro, Joao; Branco, Manuel Castelo; Ribeiro, Joao Alves								The corporatisation of football and CSR reporting by professional football clubs in Europe								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	2			242	257		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2017-0039			2019	2019	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine differences in corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting on the websites of football clubs based in five European countries with different levels of football corporatisation. Design/methodology/approach - The study examines CSR reporting on the internet by football clubs based in five European countries. Multiple regression analysis is used to analyse some factors which influence reporting and test a set of hypotheses. Findings - The findings suggest that clubs from countries in which the level of corporatisation is higher disclose more CSR information. Also, clubs with higher public visibility disclose a higher variety of CSR information. Originality/value - This study adds to the scarce research on CSR reporting in professional sports leagues by providing new empirical data and by extending prior research comparing such practices within different international frameworks of CSR.		[Ribeiro, Joao; Ribeiro, Joao Alves] Univ Porto, Dept Econ, Porto, Portugal; [Branco, Manuel Castelo] Univ Porto, Fac Econ, CEF UP, Porto, Portugal; [Branco, Manuel Castelo] OBEGEF, Porto, Portugal; [Branco, Manuel Castelo] Univ Porto, Fac Econ, CEF UP, Porto, Portugal; [Branco, Manuel Castelo] OBEGEF, Porto, Portugal								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000467879300003	58	Article; Article		
J	Serrano, Rosiane; Lacerda, Daniel Pacheco; Cassel, Ricardo Augusto; Dresch, Aline; Wolf Motta Morandi, Maria Isabel								Structure and analyze the football value chain in Brazil								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	2			258	275		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2017-0013			2019	2019	Purpose - Football is deployed into various segments and consists of a complex value chain, with interrelationships and circularities. It is relevant in various segments and therefore it is important to understand the structure. Thus, the purpose of this paper is to present a model of a football value chain and the managerial implications inherent to this chain. Design/methodology/approach - This research used a field study as its methodology, developing a semi-structured questionnaire containing open-ended questions about the representativeness of the football value chain. In-depth interviews with specialists in football were performed to collect data. Findings - The results of the interviews indicated that the theoretical model is representative. Furthermore, through validation, the relevance and representativeness of the football value chain was shown, as well as its interrelationships with the other commodity and service segments. In addition, it was found that this segment is relevant and influential in the national and international market, and can be considered a factor of economic and social development. Research limitations/implications - This paper provides a view of the actors who make up the football value chain, and also supplies a complementary view to the models of chains presented in the theoretical review, enabling the provision of evidence on the axis with greater added value as a new step. The limitation of this research involves the context approached, because as identified throughout the investigation, this context is complex and dynamic. In this way, the linear approach used to construct this chain led to a reduced view of reality and of present relationships. Practical implications - The model shows the presence of the main actors and the structure for the transformation of raw material into a final product, and is useful to understand the existing relationships and the layers of added value. Social implications - The evaluation of the conceptual model of football value chain confirms that this is a professionalized chain, which generates a significant number of direct and indirect jobs. Originality/value - The authors propose a model of a football value chain which is complementary to the theoretical review developed, exposing a linkage of the players present in this chain and at what stage they are present, and supplies the managerial implications inherent to this.		[Serrano, Rosiane] Inst Fed Educ Ciencia & Tecnol Rio Grande Sul, Sch Fash Design, Res Grp Proc & Fash Prod, Erechim, Brazil; [Serrano, Rosiane] Univ Vale Rio dos Sinos, Prod & Syst Engn Grad Program, Sao Leopoldo, Brazil; [Lacerda, Daniel Pacheco; Dresch, Aline; Wolf Motta Morandi, Maria Isabel] Univ Vale Rio dos Sinos, Sch Polytech, Res Grp Modeling Learning GMAP UNISINOS, Sao Leopoldo, Brazil; [Cassel, Ricardo Augusto] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Engn, Dept Ind & Transportat Engn, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Serrano, Rosiane] Inst Fed Educ Ciencia & Tecnol Rio Grande Sul, Sch Fash Design, Res Grp Proc & Fash Prod, Erechim, Brazil; [Serrano, Rosiane] Univ Vale Rio dos Sinos, Prod & Syst Engn Grad Program, Sao Leopoldo, Brazil								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000467879300004	66	Article; Article		
J	Maricic, Milica; Kostic-Stankovic, Milica; Bulajic, Milica; Jeremic, Veljko								See it and believe it? Conceptual model for exploring the recall and recognition of embedded advertisements of sponsors								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	2			333	352		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2018-0020			2019	2019	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to develop a conceptual model for exploring the recall and recognition of embedded advertisements of sponsors. Design/methodology/approach - To verify the proposed conceptual model on a particular sports competition, a questionnaire related to the UEFA Champions League sponsors in the season 2016/2017 was designed. The data were analysed using structural equation modelling. Findings - The results provided support to the claim that higher involvement in a sport and higher exposure to a sponsored event lead to higher recall and recognition of embedded advertisements. Conversely, the same two factors alongside sponsor awareness do not affect the attitude towards sponsors. On the other hand, sponsor awareness and attitude towards sponsors have a direct positive role on the future purchase intention of sponsor products/services. Practical implications - The findings illustrate that to maximise the effectiveness of their embedded advertisements, sponsors should not merely concentrate on brand awareness, but should go beyond and attempt to improve the consumers' positive perception of their products and services. Moreover, by sponsoring a sport event, the sponsors can be sure that their message will be effectively transmitted to the ones who are fans of the sport and the sponsored competition. Originality/value - The present study empirically explores the factors which influence the recall and recognition of embedded advertisements and how the achieved level of sponsorship awareness impacts purchase intentions.		[Maricic, Milica; Bulajic, Milica; Jeremic, Veljko] Univ Belgrade, Dept Operat Res & Stat, Fac Org Sci, Belgrade, Serbia; [Kostic-Stankovic, Milica] Univ Belgrade, Dept Mkt Management & Publ Relat, Fac Org Sci, Belgrade, Serbia; [Maricic, Milica] Univ Belgrade, Dept Operat Res & Stat, Fac Org Sci, Belgrade, Serbia								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000467879300009	103	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Dongfeng; Wilson, Rob; Plumley, Daniel; Chen, Xiaofeng								Perceived corporate social responsibility performance in professional football and its impact on fan-based patronage intentions An example from Chinese football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	2			353	370		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2018-0059			2019	2019	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to analyze fans' perceptions of the corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities of a professional football club, specifically whether or not perceived CSR performances are then likely to influence patronage intentions of the fans in relation to the football club. Design/methodology/approach - The paper uses the example of a professional football club in China as a case study for data analysis. Based on a sample of 451 home team fans, analysis was conducted through calculation of descriptive statistics, and exploratory factor analysis. Regression analysis was conducted to determine the impact of perceived CSR performance on fans' patronage intentions. Findings - The results revealed that factor 3 (CSR to customer and employee) and factor 4 (Community development and youth education) were significantly predictive of all the three patronage intention variables, i.e. repeat purchase, word-of-mouth and merchandise consumption. In addition, factor 2 (charity) would also affect merchandise consumption intention, but have no effect on any other dimensions. Originality/value - A scale measuring perceived CSR performance in professional football clubs by the fans in the Chinese context has been developed. In addition, the authors have identified that the two main CSR factors that would influence fans' patronage intentions are: CSR to the customer and employee and community development and youth education. Thus, if football clubs are to use CSR strategically to leverage spend, then it is these two areas that they should focus on, explicitly in relation to CSR activities. This paper adds value to an area that is currently under-researched in respect of CSR activities in Chinese professional football.		[Liu, Dongfeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Liu, Dongfeng] Global Sports Acad, Grp INSEEC, Paris, France; [Wilson, Rob; Plumley, Daniel] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, Fac Hlth & Wellbeing, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Chen, Xiaofeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Chen, Xiaofeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Econ & Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000467879300010	68	Article; Article		
J	Campo, Mickael; Champely, Stephane; Louvet, Benoit; Rosnet, Elisabeth; Ferrand, Claude; Pauketat, Janet V. T.; Mackie, Diane M.								Group-Based Emotions: Evidence for Emotion-Performance Relationships in Team Sports								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	1			54	63		10.1080/02701367.2018.1563274			2019	2019	Purpose: In team sports, players have to manage personal interests and group goals, emphasizing intricacies between personal and social identities. The focus of this article was to examine the effect of identity mechanisms on appraisal processes, based on the following research question: Does the level of self-abstraction (low [personal identity] versus high [social identity]) lead to group-based emotions and influence performances? Method: An experimental design was used in which the level of self-abstraction was manipulated through the induction of a self- versus a team-oriented goal. Thirty elite male rugby players (M-age=19.06, SD=0.78, randomly split) participated in a match reproducing conditions similar to those of official games. Individual and perceived team-level emotions and performance were measured 17 times during the match. Results: Linear Mixed Effects models showed that a high level of self-abstraction: (a) led to more positive and less negative individual (variances explained: 52% and 46%) and perceived team-referent (variances explained: 57% and 40%) emotions; (b) reduced the correlation of team-referent emotions with individual ones; and (c) positively influenced team and individual performances (variances explained: 50% and 19%). Moreover, after controlling for potential effects of the level of self-abstraction, only positive team-referent emotions influenced performance. Conclusions: This study is the first to experimentally manipulate athletes' social identity to examine group-based emotions in sport. Challenging the usual intrapersonal approaches, these findings suggested that social identity and its association with team-referent emotions could be one of the key dimensions of emotion-performance relationships in team sports.		[Campo, Mickael] Univ Bourgogne Franche Comte, Besancon, France; [Champely, Stephane] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, France; [Louvet, Benoit] Univ Rouen Normandie, Mont St Aignan, France; [Rosnet, Elisabeth] Univ Reims, Reims, France; [Ferrand, Claude] Univ Tours, Tours, France; [Pauketat, Janet V. T.] Princeton Univ, Princeton, NJ 08544 USA; [Mackie, Diane M.] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA; [Campo, Mickael] UFR STAPS Dijon, Lab Psy DREPI Psychol Dynam Relat & Proc Identita, EA 7458, BP 27 877, F-21078 Dijon, France								42							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000461567000007	36	Article; Article		
J	Griffiths, Brad; Grant, James; Langdown, Louis; Gentil, Paulo; Fisher, James; Steele, James								The Effect of In-Season Traditional and Explosive Resistance Training Programs on Strength, Jump Height, and Speed in Recreational Soccer Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	1			95	102		10.1080/02701367.2018.1563276			2019	2019	Purpose: Resistance training is often performed in a traditional training style using deliberate relatively longer repetition durations or in an explosive training style using maximal intended velocities and relatively shorter repetition durations. Both improve strength, power (impulsivity), and speed. This study compared explosive and traditional training over a 6-week intervention in 30 healthy young adult male recreational soccer players. Method: Full body supervised resistance training was performed 2 times a week using 3 sets of each exercise at 80% of one repetition maximum to momentary failure. Outcomes were Smith machine squat 1repetition maximum, 10meter sprint time, and countermovement jump. Results: Both groups significantly improved all outcomes based on 95% confidence intervals not crossing zero. There were no between-group differences for squat 1RM (TRAD=6.3[5.1 to 7.6] kg, EXP=5.2[3.9 to 6.4] kg) or 10meter sprint (TRAD=-0.05[-0.07 to -0.04] s, EXP=-0.05[-0.06 to -0.03] s). Explosive group had a significantly greater increase in countermovement jump compared to the traditional group (TRAD=0.7[0.3 to 1.1] cm, EXP=1.3[0.9 to 1.7] cm). Conclusion: Both the traditional training and explosive training performed to momentary failure produced significant improvements in strength, speed, and jump performance. Strength gains are similar independent of intended movement speed. However, speed and jump performance changes are marginal with resistance training.		[Griffiths, Brad; Grant, James; Langdown, Louis; Fisher, James; Steele, James] Southampton Solent Univ, Southampton, Hants, England; [Gentil, Paulo] Univ Fed Goias, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Steele, James] Southampton Solent Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Social Sci, East Pk Terrace, Southampton SO14 0YN, Hants, England								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000461567000011	49	Article; Article		
J	Keatlholetswe, Lesika; Malete, Leapetswe								Coaching Efficacy, Player Perceptions of Coaches' Leadership Styles, and Team Performance in Premier League Soccer								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	1			71	79		10.1080/02701367.2018.1563277			2019	2019	The coaching competency research has demonstrated the role of coaching efficacy and coaching behaviors on various athlete outcomes. However, athlete perceptions of these relationships and how they affect performance are less understood. Purpose: This study examined if coaching efficacy is predictive of player perceptions of coaches' leadership styles, team atmosphere, and team performance in a soccer season. Method: Fifteen male premier league soccer coaches (M-age=45.27, SD=6.07) and 226 players (M-age=25.66, SD=3.96) from Botswana participated in the study. All participants completed a background information questionnaire. Coaches completed the Coaching Efficacy Scale. Players rated their coaches' leadership styles using the Revised Leadership Scale for Sports as well as team atmosphere. Team performance was based on position in the league log and player ratings of the teams' performance. Results: Findings showed that coaches' self-ratings on technique efficacy predicted player perceptions of the coaches' use of all six leadership styles. Game strategy efficacy predicted higher team atmosphere and team performance. Motivation efficacy was not significantly associated with player perceptions of the coaches' use of any of the leadership styles, while character building efficacy was negatively associated with the various leadership styles. Conclusion: Findings provide support to previous research evidence linking higher coaching efficacy, leadership styles, and team outcomes. The study expands the emergent research within the coaching competency literature that examines player perceptions of coaches' behaviors and leadership styles.		[Keatlholetswe, Lesika] Univ Botswana, Gaborone, Botswana; [Malete, Leapetswe] Michigan State Univ, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Malete, Leapetswe] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 308 West Circle Dr,IM Circle Room 203, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000461567000009	27	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Taejung; Chiu, Weisheng								Consumer acceptance of sports wearable technology: the role of technology readiness								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	1			109	126		10.1108/IJSMS-06-2017-0050			2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to investigate consumers' acceptance and use of sports and fitness wearable devices based on technology readiness (TR). In addition, the technology readiness and acceptance model (TRAM) will be used to investigate consumers' intention to use sports wearable devices (for simplicity, sports wearable devices will be simplified to the term sports wearables). Design/methodology/approach Convenience sampling was conducted from Korean consumers (n=247). Data were analyzed by partial least squares-structural equation modeling using SmartPLS 3.0. Findings The results found that positive TR has a positive influence on perceived ease of use (PEOU) and perceived usefulness (PU), and negative TR had a negative influence on PEOU and PU. PEOU had a positive influence on perceived usefulness (PU). Both PEOU and PU led to intention to use sports wearable devices. Also, the multi-group analysis found a positive correlation between TR and PEOU for especially male users. Originality/value The findings of this study provide a better understanding of consumers' behavioral intent to use sports wearables. Particularly, it also provides evidence that the TRAM is an appropriate framework for predicting users' intention to use sports wearables. This study also stresses the important role of TR in consumers' psychological processes leading up to the actual use of novel sports wearables.		[Kim, Taejung] Yonsei Univ, Dept Sport Ind, Seoul, South Korea; [Chiu, Weisheng] Open Univ Hong Kong, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Chiu, Weisheng] Open Univ Hong Kong, Lee Shau Kee Sch Business & Adm, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								174							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000457643100006	75	Article; Article		
J	Wagner, Ulrik; Hansen, Kristian Rune; Kristensen, Mette Lund; Josty, Malene								Improving service-center employees' performance by means of a sport sponsorship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	1			43	60		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2017-0109			2019	2019	Purpose Sponsorships targeting an internal audience, e.g. employees, are still under-researched. The purpose of this paper is to investigate how employees perceive and evaluate a sponsorship that is designed with the purpose of improving customer services and explore how the company may benefit from the sponsorship. Design/methodology/approach The study is anchored in critical realism and based on a single case study using multiple methods. The authors survey the impact of the sponsorship on employees' (n=653) perceptions of their ability to communicate with customers, to perform their personal best, to engage in teamwork, as well as employee retention. The authors use individual and group interviews to qualify the analysis and the access to company data on customer satisfaction rates to provide an indication of the effect of the sponsorship. Findings Results indicate that close to half the employees respond that the campaign positively impacted their ability to communicate, improve personal performance and to engage in teamwork. The analysis also reveals that the commitment of the direct leader has an impact on employees' interest and commitment to the campaign. Data on customer satisfaction show that reducing the number of dissatisfied customers and increasing the number of customers willing to recommend the company to others has been accomplished, thus indicating that the sponsorship has had a positive impact on company performance. Originality/value By combining sponsorship research with insights from the HRM literature, the study provides empirically based knowledge to the hitherto limited research on the internal audience of sponsorships. The study provides a plausible indication of a positive relation between a sponsorship design and company performance.		[Wagner, Ulrik; Hansen, Kristian Rune; Kristensen, Mette Lund; Josty, Malene] Univ So Denmark, Samfundsvidenskabelige Fak, Dept Mkt & Management, Odense, Denmark; [Wagner, Ulrik] Univ So Denmark, Samfundsvidenskabelige Fak, Dept Mkt & Management, Odense, Denmark								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000457643100003	63	Article; Article		
J	Osokin, Nikita								User engagement and gratifications of NSO supporters on Facebook: Evidence from European football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	1			61	80		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2017-0115			2019	2019	Purpose Building on the findings of previous related literature, this paper adopts the uses and gratifications (U&G) theory to analyze how social media users engage with content posted by European football associations (FAs). The purpose of this paper is to identify various post attributes that would aid national sports organizations (NSO) in reaching their online audiences and excelling their media presence. Design/methodology/approach A coding framework was designed to differentiate Facebook posts by topic, post design and content type. A sample of 2,450 posts from the official Facebook accounts of 49 FAs was collected. Engagement was measured using three metrics: likes, comments and shares. The derived categories of content were coded as dichotomous dummy variables and ran through a multivariate OLS regression analysis. Three regression analyzes were conducted, where each of the engagement metrics served as the dependent variable. Findings The findings of this paper show that relevance of post topics has a significant effect on engagement. Users interacted most with posts related to the male national A-team, while club football news had a negative response from the followers. Graphic elements such as images and videos positively impact an FA's ability to generate post likes. Exclusive and behind-the-scenes content made users react extremely well, affecting all engagement metrics. Raw news (match reports, team line-ups) was of little interest to Facebook users. Originality/value U&G theory has yet to have been applied to social media studies in the NSO context. Previous studies have either looked at specific case studies of a single NSO or NSOs within a single country, while this paper reviewed the social media practices of 49 NSOs under the umbrella of a single continental sports federation.		[Osokin, Nikita] Plekhanov Russian Univ Econ, Ctr Strateg Sports Res, Moscow, Russia; [Osokin, Nikita] Plekhanov Russian Univ Econ, Ctr Strateg Sports Res, Moscow, Russia								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000457643100004	68	Article; Article		
J	Ryu, Yoonji; Kim, Kihan; Paik, Jong Won; Cheong, Yunjae								Determinants of audience demand for the televised professional baseball matches in Korea: An analysis of the post-season matches from 2008 to 2016								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	1			184	202		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2017-0127			2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine factors influencing the audience demand for televised post-season games of the Korean professional baseball league. Design/methodology/approach The data were collected from a total of 129 games - the entire post-season games from 2008 to 2016. Two dependent variables representing audience demand for televised baseball matches, obtained from the third-party television audit company AGB Nielsen, were regressed on a series of match-related and unrelated antecedent factors associated with each match. Pooled OLS regression with wild bootstrap standard errors with 100,000 replications was applied in the analysis. Findings Regarding match-related factors, higher television ratings and the greater numbers of television viewers were associated with matches with greater significance, outcome uncertainty and score sum. In terms of the match-unrelated factors, the broadcast platform appeared to be the most powerful predictor of both television ratings and the numbers of viewers. Other than the broadcast platform, night matches, matches with full stadium occupancy and team values showed positive impacts on both the television ratings and the numbers of viewers. Practical implications The sales of media rights and sponsorships are the major sources of revenues for professional sports leagues, and the size of these two streams of revenues is in proportion to the size of the audience demand for television and other media. This study provides valuable insights to the sports marketers of professional sports clubs and leagues by establishing proper understanding of the determinants of the audience demand for televised sports. Originality/value The characteristics specific to each professional league and country play unique roles in determining the antecedent factors of audience demand for televised sports; this study is one of the few attempts to examine Koran professional baseball league.		[Ryu, Yoonji; Kim, Kihan; Paik, Jong Won] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Global Sport Management Program, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Kihan] Seoul Natl Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Cheong, Yunjae] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Div Media Commun, Seoul, South Korea; [Cheong, Yunjae] Hankuk Univ Foreign Studies, Div Media Commun, Seoul, South Korea								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000457643100010	58	Article; Article		
J	Oh, Taeyeon; Oh, Jihyeon; Kim, Junhee; Kwon, Kisung Dennis								Differences of perception between private and public officers in an organizing committee concerning stakeholders of an international sporting event								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	1			127	142		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-0067			2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to investigate the perception of public and private officers of stakeholder at the PyeongChang Winter Olympic Games 2018. This event was selected as the subject of this research as it is the most recent mega-scale international sporting event and, given that the organizing committee (OC) is currently operating, it afforded a unique opportunity to investigate the staff of the organization. To clarify the research questions, this research identified stakeholders of Olympic Games. Design/methodology/approach The research questions were examined by a stakeholder analysis that measured and compared perceptions conducted according to the stakeholder theory (Freeman, 2010) and previous research (Naraine et al., 2016). Findings This study identifies eight stakeholders of the 2018 Winter Olympic Games: the OC, the International Olympics Committee, National Olympic Committee, central government, local government, media, sponsors and non-government organizations. The authors pointed out that public officers are more sensitive to the opinions and movements of community members than private staff. Conversely, the authors found that the private staffs regard the media and influential stakeholders as more important compared with public officers. Originality/value Based on the findings from the Olympics committee, this study contributes to the academic literature related to sporting events and their stakeholders by providing the most up-to-date identification of stakeholders.		[Oh, Taeyeon] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, Oxford, MS USA; [Oh, Jihyeon; Kim, Junhee; Kwon, Kisung Dennis] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Kwon, Kisung Dennis] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000457643100007	24	Article; Article		
J	Eddy, Terry; Cork, Benjamin Colin								Sponsorship antecedents and outcomes in participant sport settings								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				20	1			26	42		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2016-0018			2019	2019	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to measure participants' sponsorship awareness, and assess a model designed to predict participants' behavioral intentions toward the sponsors of the Fayetteville Race Series. Design/methodology/approach The study is based on non-experimental survey research design using path analysis. Findings Perceived sponsor goodwill had a positive direct effect on participants' sponsor behavioral intentions, as well as a positive indirect effect partially mediated by sponsor image. Sponsor image and future event participation also had positive direct effects on behavioral intentions. Overall, participants had very positive perceptions of the sponsors' goodwill and image, and indicated positive future intentions. Participants' ability to identify event sponsors through aided recall was inconsistent between the two events studied. Practical implications The positive outcomes for sponsors observed in this study should make small, regional, participant-based sport events appealing marketing channels, especially for generating goodwill in the community. Further, even small sponsorship spends can have a significant impact on these smaller events, since traditional funding sources continue to be cut. Originality/value Existing literature on sponsorship of participant sport-based events has generally focused on large events (i.e. marathons that draw participants nationally), despite the prevalence of smaller scale, regional events around the world.		[Eddy, Terry] Univ Windsor, Dept Kinesiol, Windsor, ON, Canada; [Cork, Benjamin Colin] Western Michigan Univ, Dept Human Performance & Hlth Educ, Kalamazoo, MI 49008 USA; [Eddy, Terry] Univ Windsor, Dept Kinesiol, Windsor, ON, Canada								28							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000457643100002	55	Article; Article		
J	Bunn, Jennifer; Schuitema, Summer; Zhang, Sidong; Mayhew, Jerry								How Much Does Experience Matter in NCAA Division I Volleyball? A Retrospective Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	1			64	70		10.1080/02701367.2018.1563275			2019	2019	Purpose:To evaluate the relationship between years of collegiate playing experience and success of NCAA Division I volleyball programs. Methods:Data were gathered from the 2010-2015 seasons for each volleyball program in the power five conferences. Players that were involved in at least 66% of the sets were selected for analysis. Each player's years of college experience were tabulated and a team average experience score was created. This score was correlated with the end of season Ratings Percentage Index (RPI). Years with a significant correlation between success and experience were further analyzed for differences in on-court statistics by years of experience. Results: The range for team average experience score was 2.52-2.66. Only the 2012 season showed a moderate correlation between the team average score and RPI (=-0.421, p =.001), indicating that more experienced teams finished with a higher national ranking. Within this year, teams with more experience had a statistically significant (p <.05) higher season win percentage, higher conference win percentage, higher hitting percentage, more kills/set, and more assists/set than teams with low or only moderate experience. Conclusions:These data suggest that more collegiate playing experience does not always result in a significantly more successful season, but trends indicate that a relationship does exist between experience and success. In the one year that showed significance, more experienced teams had more favorable statistics related to skills that terminate play (e.g., kills) rather than ball control skills (e.g., digs and passing).		[Bunn, Jennifer; Schuitema, Summer; Zhang, Sidong] Campbell Univ, Buies Creek, NC 27506 USA; [Mayhew, Jerry] Truman State Univ, Kirksville, MO USA; [Bunn, Jennifer] Campbell Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, POB 1090, Buies Creek, NC 27506 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000461567000008	36	Article; Article		
J	Rui Gomes, A.; Manuela Goncalves, A.; Dias, Olga; Morais, Catarina								Parental Behavior, Cognitive Appraisal, and Motivation in Young Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	1			80	94		10.1080/02701367.2018.1563278			2019	2019	Purpose: This study tested two hypotheses relating young athletes' sports motivations to parental behaviors and cognitive appraisal: (1) young athletes' motivation in sports is related to their parents' behavior; and (2) this relationship is mediated by cognitive appraisal, even after controlling for competitive level and sports records. Method: This cross-sectional study included 673 young athletes and it measured the athletes' perceptions of parental behaviors, cognitive appraisal, and sports motivation. Results: Structural equation modeling confirmed Hypothesis 1-the mother's behaviors accounted for 15 to 16% of the variance in sports motivation, and the father's behaviors accounted for 12 to 21% of the variance. The correlation patterns differed according to whether the athletes were evaluating the mother's or father's behaviors. Hypothesis 2 also was confirmed, for cognitive appraisal partially mediated the relationship between the perception of parental behaviors and sports motivation (34% of the variance was accounted for by the perception of the mother's behavior; 30% by the father's). The mediating model did not vary with competitive level or sports records. Conclusion: Parental behaviors and cognitive appraisal need to be taken into account to understand young athletes' sports motivations.		[Rui Gomes, A.; Manuela Goncalves, A.; Dias, Olga; Morais, Catarina] Univ Minho, Braga, Portugal; [Morais, Catarina] Univ Porto, Porto, Portugal; [Rui Gomes, A.] Univ Minho, Escola Psicol, Campus Gualtar, P-4710057 Braga, Portugal								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000461567000010	60	Article; Article		
J	Araujo, Jaqueline A.; Queiroz, Marilene G.; Dias, Andre R. L.; Sousa, Laila C. J. L.; Arsa, Gisela; Cambri, Lucieli T.								Isolated Obesity Is Not Enough to Impair Cardiac Autonomic Modulation in Metabolically Healthy Men								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				90	1			14	23		10.1080/02701367.2018.1549357			2019	2019	Purpose: To evaluate whether excess body mass influences the heart rate variability (HRV) indexes at rest, and to correlate adiposity indicators and the aerobic fitness with cardiac autonomic variables in metabolically healthy young adults. Method: In all, 41 untrained males (M-age=21.80, SD=2.14years), 14 normal weight (M-BMI=22.28, SD=1.86 kg.m(-2)), 11 overweight (M-BMI=26.95, SD=1.43 kg.m(-2)), and 16 obese (M-BMI=33.58, SD=3.06 kg.m(-2)) metabolically healthy (normal values of blood pressure, fasting blood glucose, triglycerides, and total cholesterol), underwent evaluations of the HRV at rest and of the peak oxygen consumption (VO2 peak) during maximal exercise on a cycle ergometer. Results: Blood pressure, heart rate, HRV indexes, casual blood glucose, oxidative stress, and antioxidant activity did not differ among the groups. The VO2 peak (mL.kg(-1).min(-1)) was lower in the obese group compared with the normal weight and overweight groups. The body mass (r =-.40 to -.45) and abdominal circumference (r =-.39 to -.52) were slightly to moderately correlated with SD1, SD2, RMSSD, SDNN, pNN50, LF, and HF indexes and total power. The VO2 peak (mL.kg(-1).min(-1)) was slightly to moderately correlated (r =.48 to .51) with SD2, SDNN, and LF indexes in the individuals with excess body mass. Conclusion: Cardiac autonomic modulation at rest was preserved in metabolically healthy obese young men. However, the indicators of adiposity, as well as the aerobic fitness were correlated with cardiac autonomic modulation in the individuals with excess body mass.		[Araujo, Jaqueline A.; Queiroz, Marilene G.; Dias, Andre R. L.; Arsa, Gisela; Cambri, Lucieli T.] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Cuiaba, MT, Brazil; [Sousa, Laila C. J. L.] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Cambri, Lucieli T.] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Dept Phys Educ, Ave Fernando Correa da Costa 2367, BR-78060900 Cuiaba, MT, Brazil								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000461567000003	42	Article; Article		
J	Hersch, Philip L.; Pelkowski, Jodi E.								The Consequences (and Nonconsequences) of Ownership Change: The Case of Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	1			72	90		10.1177/1527002517716972			JAN 2019	2019	Although ultimate responsibility for a professional sports team lies with the owner, little is known about the repercussions of having a new owner at the helm. This article investigates ownership change in Major League Baseball. Estimates indicate that new owners do not impact on-field success relative to teams with continuous ownership. A temporary 8% bump in player payrolls, however, is observed in the first few years of owner transition. Change in ownership increases the odds of general manager and manager dismissals and is also more likely to trigger modifications to team logos and player uniforms.		[Hersch, Philip L.; Pelkowski, Jodi E.] Wichita State Univ, Dept Econ, Wichita, KS 67260 USA; [Hersch, Philip L.] Wichita State Univ, Dept Econ, Wichita, KS 67260 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000453418200004	32	Article; Article		
J	Propheter, Geoffrey								Estimating the Effect of Sports Facilities on Local Area Commercial Rents: Evidence From Brooklyn's Barclays Center								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	1			91	114		10.1177/1527002517723048			JAN 2019	2019	The effect of Brooklyn's Barclays Center on commercial land rents is estimated on a pooled cross-section of parcels within 1 mile of the arena from 2006 through 2015. The effect of the arena is isolated using a triple difference-in-difference approach. From the preferred model, net operating income per square foot is estimated to fall by an average of 3.7% for each 1,000 feet away a commercial parcel is removed from the arena. The average rent effect within 1 mile of the arena is further estimated to be US$2.71 per square foot. The implications of the findings are discussed.		[Propheter, Geoffrey] Univ Colorado, Sch Publ Affairs, 1380 Lawrence St,Ste 500, Denver, CO 80204 USA; [Propheter, Geoffrey] Univ Colorado, Sch Publ Affairs, 1380 Lawrence St,Ste 500, Denver, CO 80204 USA								24							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000453418200005	34	Article; Article		
J	Di Bartolomeo, Giovanni; Papa, Stefano								The Effects of Physical Activity on Social Interactions: The Case of Trust and Trustworthiness								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				20	1			50	71		10.1177/1527002517717299			JAN 2019	2019	There is no doubt that physical activity improves health conditions; however, does it also affect the way people interact? Beyond the obvious effects related to team games, we wonder whether physical activity has in itself some effect on social behavior. Our research focuses on the potential effects of physical activity on trust and trustworthiness. Specifically, we compare the choices of subjects playing an investment game who were previously exposed to short-time physical activity to others who are not exposed to it, but involved in different simple tasks. On average, we find that subjects exposed to physical activity exhibit more trust and prosocial behaviors than those who are not exposed. These effects are not temporary.		[Di Bartolomeo, Giovanni; Papa, Stefano] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Via Castro Laurenziano 9, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Di Bartolomeo, Giovanni] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Via Castro Laurenziano 9, I-00185 Rome, Italy								90							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000453418200003	94	Article; Article		
J	Hams, Andrea; Evans, Kerrie; Adams, Roger; Waddington, Gordon; Witchalls, Jeremy								Epidemiology of shoulder injury in sub-elite level water polo players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				127	132		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.12.001			JAN 2019	2019	Objective: Investigate the patterns and circumstances of shoulder injury, in both male and female sub-elite water polo players, through evaluating the injury incidence, mechanism and subsequent training time lost. Design: :Retrospective cohort. Setting: Sports institute. Participants: 80 sub-elite water polo players. Main outcome measures: Total injury number and incidence, mechanism of injury, lost training time and time from injury onset to seeking treatment. Results: For the athlete self-report data set (2009-2013), 218 total injuries were reported with 54 (25%) being shoulder injuries. From 2014 to 2016, 133 physiotherapist-report injuries were recorded, the shoulder accounting for 21 (16%) of total injuries. The shoulder was the most frequently injured site and accounted for 25% of lost training days. Two thirds of shoulder injuries were due to overuse (67%). The average time between sustaining a shoulder injury and presenting to the team physiotherapist was 10 days. Conclusion: : Irrespective of data collection method, shoulder injuries were the most common injury for both male and female sub-elite water polo players. Future injury prevention strategies could address overuse through optimising throwing volumes, and include athlete education about injury management to determine whether reducing time delay between injury occurrence and seeking treatment improves outcomes. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hams, Andrea; Adams, Roger; Waddington, Gordon; Witchalls, Jeremy] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Bldg 1,11 Kirinari St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Hams, Andrea] Ctr Excellence Queensland Acad Sport, 400 Kessels Rd, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Hams, Andrea; Evans, Kerrie] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, G02 Clin Sci 1,Level 1-04,Gold Coast Campus, Nathan, Qld 4222, Australia; [Hams, Andrea] Griffith Univ, POB 36, Nathan, Qld 4222, Australia								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200020	27	Article; Article		
J	Romero-Morales, Carlos; Javier Martin-Llantino, Pedro; Calvo-Lobo, Cesar; Palomo-Lopez, Patricia; Lopez-Lopez, Daniel; Pareja-Galeano, Helios; Rodriguez-Sanz, David								Comparison of the sonographic features of the Achilles Tendon complex in patients with and without achilles tendinopathy: A case-control study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				122	126		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.12.003			JAN 2019	2019	Aim: The aim of the present study was to evaluate and quantify with ultrasound imaging (USI) the Achilles tendon thickness, cross-sectional area (CSA), Kager's fat pad length and gastrocnemius-soleus pennation angle (PA) between chronic mid-portion Achilles tendinopathy (AT) and healthy subjects. Methods: A total sample of 143 individuals (age: 41.3 +/- 12.0 y; height: 1.74 +/- 0.0 m; weight: 75.0 +/- 11.4 kg; body mass index, BMI: 24.4 +/- 2.6 kg/m(2)) was recruited and divided in two groups: chronic mid-portion AT group (n = 71) and a healthy group (n = 72). Results: The thickness and CSA at 4 cm and 6 cm from the calcaneus was increased showing statistically significant differences (P < .01) in favor the tendinopathy group. For the gastrocnemius-soleus PA and Kager's fat pad length, significant differences (P < .01) were observed for a decrease in favor of the tendinopathy group. Conclusions: This study reported an increase of Achilles tendon thickness and CSA at 4 cm and 6 cm from the calcaneus as well as a decrease in gastrocnemius-soleus PA and Kager's fat pad length in patients with chronic mid-portion AT. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Romero-Morales, Carlos; Javier Martin-Llantino, Pedro; Pareja-Galeano, Helios; Rodriguez-Sanz, David] European Univ Madrid, Fac Sports Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Calvo-Lobo, Cesar] Univ Leon, Fac Hlth Sci, Nursing & Phys Therapy Dept, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, Ponferrada, Spain; [Palomo-Lopez, Patricia] Univ Extremadura, Univ Ctr Plasencia, Plasencia, Spain; [Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Fac Nursing & Podiatry, Res Hlth & Podiatry Unit, Dept Hlth Sci, Ferrol, Spain; [Rodriguez-Sanz, David] Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Enfermeria Fisioterapia & Podol, Madrid, Spain; [Lopez-Lopez, Daniel] Univ A Coruna, Unidade Invest Saude & Podoloxia, Fac Enfermaria & Podoloxia, Dept Ciencias Saude, Campus Univ Esteiro S-N, Ferrol 15403, Spain								39							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200019	33	Article; Article		
J	Priore, Liliam B.; Azevedo, Fabio M.; Pazzinatto, Marcella E.; Ferreira, Amanda S.; Hart, Harvi F.; Barton, Christian; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira								Influence of kinesiophobia and pain catastrophism on objective function in women with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				116	121		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.11.013			JAN 2019	2019	Objectives: (i) To compare kinesiophobia, pain catastrophism and objective function between women with patellofemoral pain (PFP) and pain-free; (ii) to investigate the association of kinesiophobia and pain catastrophism with objetive function in women with PFP. Design: Case-control. Setting: Laboratory-based. Participants: Fifty-five women with PFP and forty pain-free women. Main outcome measures: Kinesiophobia and pain catastrophism were assessed using the Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia and Pain Catastrophizing Scale, respectively. Forward step-down, single leg hop, and modified star balance tests were used to assess objective function. Independent t-tests were used for between-groups comparisons and Pearson correlation coefficients were used to investigate the association between the outcomes. Results: Women with PFP had significantly worse kinesiophobia (p < 0.001; Effect size (ES) = 1.16), pain catastrophism (p < 0.001; ES = 1.57), and poorer objective function (step-down, (p < 0.001; ES = 0.99); single-leg hop (p = 0.002; ES = 0.74); modified star balance (p < 0.001; ES = 0.66) than pain-free controls. Kinesiophobia and pain catastrophism were not correlated with objective function. Conclusion: Greater kinesiophobia, pain catastrophism and poorer objective function is evident in women with PFP, compared to pain-free controls. Kinesiophobia and pain catastrophism were not associated with objective function in women with PFP. Future research is necessary to understand how other physical and psychological factors might affect objective function. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Priore, Liliam B.; Azevedo, Fabio M.; Pazzinatto, Marcella E.; Ferreira, Amanda S.; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci & Technol, Lab Biomech & Motor Control LABCOM, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Pazzinatto, Marcella E.; Hart, Harvi F.; Barton, Christian; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, La Trobe Sports & Exercise Med Res Ctr LASEM, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Silva, Danilo de Oliveira] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci & Technol, Physiotherapy Dept, Roberto Simonsen St 305, BR-19060900 Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil								74							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200018	36	Article; Article		
J	Cosgrave, Matthew; Williams, Sean								The epidemiology of concussion in professional rugby union in Ireland								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				99	105		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.11.010			JAN 2019	2019	Objectives: To determine incidence rates, severity and the nature of concussion in professional rugby union in Ireland. Design: Retrospective observational study of time-loss concussion. Setting: Professional rugby union in Ireland. Participants: 160 male professional rugby union players. Outcome measures: Incidence rates (concussion/1000 player-match-hours) and mean/median severity (days absence) of concussion. Results: This study observed 60 concussions in 47 players over the course of the 2016/17 season. The match concussion incidence rate was 18.4/1000 player-match-hours. Mean and median severity was 12 and 10 days respectively. Overall burden of match concussion was 5 days absence per team per match. Concussion severity (days absence) correlated positively with the number of symptoms (r(s) 0.32, p = 0.022) and symptom severity score (r(s) 0.28, p = 0.045) on HIA2/SCAT3 forms. A negative correlation was observed between symptom severity score and the number of days until subsequent injury (r(s) -0.28, p = 0.049). Tackling was the most common inciting event responsible for concussion. Conclusions: The burden of concussion in professional rugby union is high. Incidence rates appear to be increasing year on year while severity is unchanged. Return to play results in this study highlight the need for caution in concussion recovery and return to play protocols. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Cosgrave, Matthew; Williams, Sean] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England; [Cosgrave, Matthew] 14 Cranmore Gardens, Belfast BT9 6JL, Antrim, North Ireland								33							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200016	22	Article; Article		
J	Shih, Hui-Ting; Teng, Hsiang-Ling; Gray, Casey; Poggemiller, Matthew; Tracy, Ian; Lee, Szu-Ping								Four weeks of training with simple postural instructions changes trunk posture and foot strike pattern in recreational runners								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				89	96		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.11.005			JAN 2019	2019	Objectives: Previous studies showed that adopting forward trunk lean and forefoot strike patterns may reduce risk of running-related knee injuries. However, the process of learning such forms is unclear. The purpose of the study was to investigate the effects of a 4-week training using simple postural instructions to elicit these changes. Design: Longitudinal intervention study. Setting: A training included postural instructions: 1) lean your trunk forward, and 2) land on the front part of your feet. Participants: Eighteen recreational runners. Main outcome measures: Participants were assessed prior to training (PRE), immediately after the instructions (iPST), during training at 2 weeks (2WK) and 4 weeks (4WK), and 7-10 days after the conclusion of training (RET). Assessment consisted of running trials performed at self-selected and controlled speeds, during which the trunk and foot strike angles were assessed. Results: Comparing to PRE, forward trunk angle significantly increased by approximately 3.5 degrees and foot strike angle by approximately 7 degrees at 2WK, 4WK and RET. Conclusions: A 4-week training with simple postural instructions induced significant changes in trunk and foot strike patterns in recreational runners. Future study is needed to develop clinical therapeutic protocols for runners with and at risk of running-related knee injuries. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Shih, Hui-Ting; Gray, Casey; Poggemiller, Matthew; Tracy, Ian; Lee, Szu-Ping] Univ Nevada, Dept Phys Therapy, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy,Box 453029, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Teng, Hsiang-Ling] Calif State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 1250 Bellflower Blvd, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Gray, Casey] Custom Phys Therapy, 1610 Robb Dr Suite D5, Reno, NV 89523 USA; [Poggemiller, Matthew] Adv Phys Therapy, 1275 Sadler Way Suite 201, Fairbanks, AK 99701 USA; [Tracy, Ian] Rebound Phys Therapy, 1175 E Parkcenter Blvd, Boise, ID 83706 USA; [Lee, Szu-Ping] Univ Nevada, Dept Phys Therapy, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy,Box 453029, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200014	45	Article; Article		
J	Clark, Nicole; Forshey, Trent; Mulligan, Ivan; Kindel, Curtis								Knee mechanics during a change of direction movement in division I athletes following full return to sport from anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				75	78		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.11.008			JAN 2019	2019	Objectives: The objective of this study was to determine whether Division I athletes following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR), and who are medically cleared to return to sport, demonstrate faulty knee mechanics during a change of direction maneuver, as evidenced by the presence of genu valgum on VICON (R) motion analysis system of 5 degrees or greater. Study design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University. Participants: Ten Division I athletes performed a 90 degrees change of direction movement on both the ACLR and unaffected limbs. Main outcome measures: Knee mechanics were assessed using the VICON (R) motion analysis system. Knee position was analyzed in the frontal plane and peak genu valgum position was determined during the functional movement. Results: Eight out of ten athletes (80%) demonstrated genu valgum >= 5 degrees on the ACLR limb during a 90 degrees cutting movement. Fourteen out of twenty (70%) of the knees assessed demonstrated genu valgum >= 5 degrees during a 90 degrees cutting movement. Conclusion: Athletes who have fully returned to sport following an ACLR demonstrate substantial genu valgum during a cutting maneuver, which suggests an increased risk for future injury. These results show an increased need during ACL rehabilitation to focus on existing biomechanical deficits during sport-specific movements. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Clark, Nicole; Forshey, Trent; Mulligan, Ivan] St Francis Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, POB 600, Loretto, PA 15940 USA; [Kindel, Curtis] Anderson Univ, 225 S Pleasantburg Dr,Suite B3, Greenville, SC 29607 USA; [Kindel, Curtis] Univ Ctr Greenville, 225 S Pleasantburg Dr,Suite B3, Greenville, SC 29607 USA								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200012	25	Article; Article		
J	Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime; Lopez-Valenciano, Alejandro; Del Coso, Juan; Gallo-Salazar, Cesar; Barbado, David; Sabido-Solana, Rafael; Ruiz-Perez, Inaki; Moreno-Perez, Victor; Dominguez-Diez, Marta; Cabello-Manrique, David								The effects of playing two consecutive matches in the shoulder rotational profiles of elite youth badminton players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				56	62		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.11.004			JAN 2019	2019	Objective: The aim of the present study was to analyse the effects of playing two badminton matches on the same day on the shoulder profile (i.e., range of motion (ROM) and strength) of young badminton players. Design: Cross sectional study. Setting: Indoor sports facility. Participants: Thirty-one elite junior badminton players (age 16.6 +/- 1.0 years, body mass 63.9 +/- 6.1 kg, height 174.8 +/- 6.1 cm), including 19 boys and 12 girls. Main outcome measures: Shoulder passive internal rotation (IR) and external rotation (ER) ROM as well as shoulder IR/ER maximal isometric strength were measured before and after a competition including two competitive matches. Results: Significant decreases (p < 0.05) were found in the shoulder ROM (i.e., dominant and non-dominant ER ROMs as well as in the dominant and non-dominant total arc of motion [TAM]) in boys, while in girls, significant increases (p <0.05) were found in the non-dominant ER absolute strength, with significant decreases were found in the non-dominant ER ROM and the non-dominant TAM. Conclusion: Playing two badminton matches on the same day led to gender-specific changes on the shoulder profile (i.e., ROM and strength) of young elite badminton players, with more impact on the shoulder profile of boys compared to girls. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, Dept Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain; [Lopez-Valenciano, Alejandro; Barbado, David; Sabido-Solana, Rafael; Ruiz-Perez, Inaki; Moreno-Perez, Victor; Dominguez-Diez, Marta] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Sports Res Ctr, Alicante, Spain; [Del Coso, Juan; Gallo-Salazar, Cesar] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Exercise Physiol Lab, Madrid, Spain; [Cabello-Manrique, David] Univ Granada, Sport Sci Fac, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Granada, Spain; [Fernandez-Fernandez, Jaime] Univ Leon, Dept Phys Act & Sports Sci, Leon, Spain								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200009	32	Article; Article		
J	Nunes, Guilherme S.; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Pizzari, Tania; Serrao, Fabio Viadanna; Crossley, Kay M.; Barton, Christian John								Clinically measured hip muscle capacity deficits in people with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				69	74		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.11.003			JAN 2019	2019	Objective: To evaluate differences in clinical measures of hip abductor and extensor capacity (strength, endurance and power) in people with patellofemoral pain (PFP) compared to asymptomatic controls. Design: Cross-sectional. Settings: Laboratory. Participants: Thirty-two physically active people (16 with PFP and 16 controls). Main outcome measures: Strength was evaluated isometrically using a hand-held dynamometer and dynamically using 10 repetitions maximum (IORM) tests. Power was assessed using a linear position transducer. Endurance was assessed using maximum number of repetitions. Results: The PFP group had significant deficits compared to the control group in isometric strength (21 -25%) for hip abduction (ES= 0.98) and extension (ES = 0.85); in lORM (15-18%) for hip abduction (ES = 0.72) and extension (ES = 0.85); and in power (24-31%) for hip abduction (ES = 0.80), and extension (ES = 0.94). No difference was identified for hip abduction and extension in endurance tests. Conclusion: Clinical assessments can identify deficits in isometric and dynamic hip strength, as well as power in people with PFP. Hip muscle capacity deficits in people with PFP including strength and power highlight a potential need for more progressive resistance training in this population. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Nunes, Guilherme S.; Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Pizzari, Tania; Crossley, Kay M.; Barton, Christian John] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Nunes, Guilherme S.; Serrao, Fabio Viadanna] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Physiotherapy, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Silva, Danilo de Oliveira] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Physiotherapy, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Barton, Christian John] Univ Melbourne, St Vincents Hosp, Dept Surg, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Nunes, Guilherme S.] La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								35							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200011	34	Article; Article		
J	Harutaichun, Pavinee; Boonyong, Sujitra; Pensri, Praneet								Predictors of plantar fasciitis in Thai novice conscripts after 10-week military training: A prospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				29	35		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.004			JAN 2019	2019	Objective: To identify the individual, anatomical, and biomechanical predictors of plantar fasciitis among novice conscripts. Design: A prospective cohort study. Setting: Military training camp in Bangkok, Thailand. Participants: One hundred thirteen novice conscripts without lower extremity pain prior to the commencement of military training. Main outcome measure(s): Individual, anatomical, and biomechanical variables were assessed in all participants at baseline. The primary criterion variable was the presence or absence of plantar fasciitis. Results: After 10 weeks of training, 113 participants were classified as having (n = 71) and not having (n =42) plantar fasciitis. The results indicated that the conscripts with poorer quality of movement and lesser femoral anteversion angle tended to exhibit plantar fasciitis (odds ratio = 1.996 and 0.720, respectively). Regarding individual components, the conscripts with higher body mass index and higher stress level had increased risk of plantar fasciitis (odds ratio = 1.238 and 1.110, respectively). Moreover, the conscripts with a higher level of physical exercise before military training had a reduced risk of presenting with plantar fasciitis (odds ratio = 0.242). Conclusions: Multiple predictors-especially individual characteristics and the abnormalities from the proximal region (other than foot and ankle)-contributed to the development of plantar fasciitis among Thai novice conscripts. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Harutaichun, Pavinee; Boonyong, Sujitra; Pensri, Praneet] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Allied Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Bangkok, Thailand; [Pensri, Praneet] 154 Rama I Rd, Bangkok, Thailand								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200006	47	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Ashley; Jones, Gareth; Greig, Neil; Bower, Paul; Brown, James; Hind, Karen; Francis, Peter								Epidemiology of injury in English Professional Football players: A cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				18	22		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.011			JAN 2019	2019	Objective: To estimate the current incidence and location of injury in English professional football. Design: Prospective cohort study conducted over one competitive season (2015/16). Setting: Professional football players competing in the English Football League and National Conference. Participants: 243 players from 10 squads (24.3 +/- 4.21 per squad). Main outcome measure: Injury incidence, training and match exposure were collected in accordance with the international consensus statement on football injury epidemiology. Results: 473 injuries were reported. The estimated incidence of injury was, 9.11 injuries/1000 h of football related activity. There was a higher incidence of injury during match play (24.29/1000 h) compared to training (6.84/1000 h). The thigh was the most common site of injury (31.7%), muscle strains accounted for 41.2% of all injuries. The hamstrings were the most frequently strained muscle group, accounting for 39.5% of all muscle strains and 16.3% of all injuries. Moderate severity injuries (8-28 days) were the most common (44.2%). Conclusions: Incidence of injury has increased over the last 16 years with muscle strains remaining the most prevalent injury. The hamstrings remain the most commonly injured muscle group. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Jones, Ashley; Jones, Gareth; Greig, Neil; Bower, Paul; Brown, James; Francis, Peter] Leeds Beckett Univ, Sch Clin & Appl Sci, Musculoskeletal Hlth Res Grp, Leeds LS1 3HE, W Yorkshire, England; [Hind, Karen] Univ Durham, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Durham DH1 3HN, England; [Jones, Ashley] Leeds Beckett Univ, PD609,City Campus, Leeds LS1 3HE, W Yorkshire, England								69							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200004	17	Article; Article		
J	Kuenze, Christopher; Lisee, Caroline; Pfeiffer, Karin A.; Cadmus-Bertram, Lisa; Post, Eric G.; Biese, Kevin; Bell, David R.								Sex differences in physical activity engagement after ACL reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				12	17		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.016			JAN 2019	2019	Objectives: To investigate the effects of sex as an effect modifier of objectively measured moderate-tovigorous physical activity (MVPA) in individuals following ACLR and healthy controls. Design: Cross-sectional research study. Setting: University community. Participants: 59 participants (42.4% male) with a history of ACLR and 55 healthy control participants (40.0% male). Main outcome measures: Participants were outfitted with an ActiGraph wGT3X-BT accelerometer for a period of 7 days to assess MVPA. Weekly time engaged in MVPA (in bouts >= 10 min), % of total time engaged in MVPA, and odds of meeting national physical activity guidelines (MVPA >= 150 min/wk) were compared between males and females with a history of ACLR and healthy controls. Results: There were significant sex X group interactions for weekly MVPA (p = 0.02) and % total time in MVPA (p = 0.01). The odds of a female ACLR participant meeting national physical activity guidelines were significantly worse (X-2 = 4.18, OR = 2.54, CI95 = 1.03-6.27) when compared to participants without ACLR. Conclusions: Female participants with ACLR were found to be less active than healthy control participants and their odds of meeting national MVPA guidelines were also 2.54 times worse than healthy participants. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kuenze, Christopher; Lisee, Caroline; Pfeiffer, Karin A.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 308 W Circle Dr 105c, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Kuenze, Christopher] Michigan State Univ, Div Sports Med, Coll Osteopath Med, 4660 Hagadorn Rd 420, E Lansing, MI 48823 USA; [Cadmus-Bertram, Lisa; Post, Eric G.; Biese, Kevin; Bell, David R.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Kinesiol, 2000 Observ Dr, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Bell, David R.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, Sch Med & Publ Hlth, 1685 Highland Ave, Madison, WI 53705 USA; [Kuenze, Christopher] Michigan State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, 308 W Circle Dr 105c, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								45							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200003	32	Article; Article		
J	Murray, Eoghan								An interesting case series describing a spate of pelvic avulsion injury in a cohort of elite adolescent footballers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				7	11		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.010			JAN 2019	2019	Study design: Case series. Background: There is conflicting opinion on the incidence of pelvic avulsion injury within the literature, being depicted as both population and mechanism specific. A recent spate of pelvic avulsion fractures highlighted the condition and the need for greater awareness amongst stakeholders involved in the development of academy footballers. Case description: This case report describes a series of six pelvic avulsion injuries within a category 1 football academy season. It describes the injury mechanism and management process, from initial examination to investigations and treatment discussing this in the context of the existing literature. Outcomes: All players were managed conservatively, successfully completing a 5-phase rehabilitation programme. Discussion: The report attempts to highlight any underlying factors that may be associated with the recent spate of pelvic avulsion injuries over the 2016-17 academy season and to ultimately encourage dialogue and implementation of viable preventative strategies within an academy programme. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Murray, Eoghan] Manchester United Football Club Ltd, Sir Matt Busby Way, Manchester M16 0RA, Lancs, England; [Murray, Eoghan] Aon Training Complex,Birch Rd Isherwood Rd, Manchester M31 4BH, Lancs, England; [Murray, Eoghan] Manchester United Football Club Ltd, Sir Matt Busby Way, Manchester M16 0RA, Lancs, England; [Murray, Eoghan] Aon Training Complex,Birch Rd Isherwood Rd, Manchester M31 4BH, Lancs, England								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200002	14	Article; Article		
J	Mineta, Shinshiro; Inami, Takayuki; Fukano, Mako; Hoshiba, Takuma; Masuda, Yuta; Yoshimura, Akane; Kumai, Tsukasa; Hirose, Norikazu								The reliability, and discriminative ability of the identification of functional ankle instability questionnaire, Japanese version								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				35				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.013			JAN 2019	2019	Objective: To assess the discriminability as well as the reliability, and internal consistency of the Identification of Functional Ankle Instability questionnaire translated into Japanese (IdFAI-J). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Collegiate athletic training/sports medicine clinic. Participants: Twenty bilingual and sixty-five collegiate athletes including participants with and without functional instability (FI). Main outcome measures: The sensitivity, specificity, test retest reliability, and internal consistency of IdFAI-J. Results: The optimal cutoff score between the FI and non-FI participants was >10, with an area under the curve of 0.92. We calculated high sensitivity (0.94) and specificity (0.77) at the cutoff point. For the testretest reliability, the intraclass correlation coefficient value of the IdFAI-J was 0.96; the standard error of measurement and minimal detectable change value was 1.69 and 3.60, respectively. Cronbach's a was 0.87; there was no improvement when a particular item was deleted from the scale. Conclusions: The IdFAI-J has excellent discriminability, test-retest reliability, and internal consistency. Hence, the IdFAI-J significantly contribute to clinical practice and future research related to ankle instability in Japan. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mineta, Shinshiro; Masuda, Yuta; Yoshimura, Akane] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Higashifushimi, Nishitokyo, Japan; [Inami, Takayuki] Keio Univ, Inst Phys Educ, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Fukano, Mako] Shibaura Inst Technol, Coll Engn, Dept Phys Educ & Hlth, Saitama, Saitama, Japan; [Hoshiba, Takuma; Kumai, Tsukasa; Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Higashifushimi, Nishitokyo, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] 75-2-208 Waseda Univ,2-7-5 Higashifushimi, Tokyo 2020021, Japan								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000456639200001	24	Article; Article		
J	Mills, Joseph P.; Caulfield, Scott; Fox, Davison; Baker, Kristin; Woolverton, Linda								Social Construction of Strength and Conditioning Coach Knowledge and Practice: What the Construction Means to Developing Strength and Conditioning Coaches								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			21	28		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000423			DEC 2018	2018	Knowing that critical selfreflection is an essential part of continual development, how do strength and conditioning coaches (SCCS) effectively question their practices and basic assumptions? the social construction of knowledge theory is a social theory that has rich potential for SCCS' development because it enables them to make judgments about the effectiveness of their knowledge, beliefs, and practices. In describing the social construction of SCCS' knowledge and practice, this article makes clear how the production of the ideal sporting body could be understood more in relation to dominant capitalist discourses than sporting excellence, using renowned social construction theorist, michel foucault.		[Mills, Joseph P.] Univ Denver, Denver, CO USA; [Fox, Davison; Baker, Kristin; Woolverton, Linda] Univ Denver, Sport Coaching Program, Denver, CO USA; [Caulfield, Scott] NSCA, Colorado Springs, CO 80906 USA; [Caulfield, Scott] NSCA, Colorado Springs, CO 80906 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600005	22	Article; Article		
J	Brighton, James								Disability, Spinal Cord Injury, and Strength and Conditioning: Sociological Considerations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			29	39		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000419			DEC 2018	2018	Little knowledge is available for strength and conditioning coaches (SCCS) to develop strength and conditioning (S&C) programs with athletes with a disability. Knowledge that is available is "bioscientific" with scant consideration of how dominant understandings of disability are constructed or how disability is experienced. In response, this article provides a conceptual overview of disability and reflections from the author's published research into disability sport and spinal cord injury to question the tacit knowledge used in S&C and the influence this has on SCC/athlete relationships. Guidelines to develop more reciprocal and empowering practices with athletes with a disability are advocated.		[Brighton, James] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Sect Sport & Exercise Sci, Sport & Body Cultures Res Grp, Canterbury, Kent, England; [Brighton, James] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Sect Sport & Exercise Sci, Sport & Body Cultures Res Grp, Canterbury, Kent, England								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600006	74	Article; Article		
J	Meir, Rudi; Nicholls, Adam R.								Applying a Research Ethics Model to the Practice of Being a Strength and Conditioning Coach								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			82	89		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000397			DEC 2018	2018	The strength and conditioning (S&C) coach's role could be described as being similar to other allied health professionals (e.g., physical therapists, physiotherapists, and sports physicians) who provide a service to a client-either individual athlete or team. Such a relationship should be based on respect, mutual responsibility, and ethical equality. To this end, there should be an expectation, from the athlete, that the S&C coach will be developing training programs that conform to some model of good ethical practice. This article presents a model that can be used by the S&C professional to guide their ethical practice.		[Meir, Rudi] Southern Cross Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Lismore, NSW, Australia; [Nicholls, Adam R.] Univ Hull, Sch Life Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Kingston Upon Hull, N Humberside, England; [Meir, Rudi] Southern Cross Univ, Sch Hlth & Human Sci, Lismore, NSW, Australia								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600012	28	Article; Article		
J	Clubb, Jo; McGuigan, Mike								Developing Cost-Effective, Evidence-Based Load Monitoring Systems in Strength and Conditioning Practice								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			75	81		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000396			DEC 2018	2018	The purpose of this article is to outline evidence-based fundamentals of a monitoring system for athletes. This includes time- and cost-effective interventions across load monitoring, measuring wellness responses, and recovery strategies that can be used regardless of budget size. Analysis approaches are included to outline how to analyze data collected by such a system. Considerations for implementing technology into the applied environment are also discussed. Finally, an example from a team sport is included to showcase how such measures and analyses can be incorporated into a program. For a video abstract of this article, see supplemental digital content 1 (see video, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A239).		[Clubb, Jo] Buffalo Sabres, Buffalo, NY 14203 USA; [Clubb, Jo] Buffalo Bills, Buffalo, NY 14222 USA; [McGuigan, Mike] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Sports Performance Res, Auckland, New Zealand; [McGuigan, Mike] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Clubb, Jo] Buffalo Sabres, Buffalo, NY 14203 USA; [Clubb, Jo] Buffalo Bills, Buffalo, NY 14222 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600011	66	Article; Article		
J	Mullin, Elizabeth M.; Bergan, Maura E.								Cultural and Occupational Barriers Facing Women Professionals in the Field of Strength and Conditioning								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			15	20		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000379			DEC 2018	2018	Women are sizably outnumbered by their male professional counterparts in the field of strength and conditioning. Cultural barriers resulting from hegemonic masculinity and heteronormativity contribute to the marginalization of women in sport in general, and hinder the entrance, retention, and advancement of women strength coaches specifically. We explore how mentorship is a viable option to support women professionals and make additional recommendations regarding the future direction of research, education, and professional development to improve the experience and opportunities of women in the profession.		[Mullin, Elizabeth M.] Springfield Coll, Dept Phys Educ & Hlth Educ, Springfield, MA 01109 USA; [Bergan, Maura E.] Springfield Coll, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Studies, Springfield, MA USA; [Mullin, Elizabeth M.] Springfield Coll, Dept Phys Educ & Hlth Educ, Springfield, MA 01109 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600004	18	Article; Article		
J	Turner, Graham; Rudz, Tadek; Bertolacci, Loris								Strength and Conditioning Coaching Practice and Positive Youth Athletic Development: Context-Specific Application of the Developmental Relationships Framework								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			49	55		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000413			DEC 2018	2018	Strength and conditioning coaches have an obligation to positively influence sound, holistic athlete development and support long-term engagement in sport. Positive youth development (PYD) is an intentional prosocial approach designed to support growth, learning, and success. This article focuses on the interpersonal knowledge of the coach to consider how she/he can make and sustain positive connections with athletes. Context-specific application of the developmental relationships framework demonstrates how the coach can initiate and sustain high-quality relationships. PYD confirms that youth athlete empowerment relies on coaching practice that integrates support for personal, social, and emotional growth alongside physical development.		[Turner, Graham] Gymnast Australia, Albert Pk, Vic, Australia; [Rudz, Tadek] Northern Terr Inst Sport Sport & Recreat, Dept Tourism & Culture, Darwin, NT, Australia; [Bertolacci, Loris] Northern Terr Inst Sport Australia, Marrara, NT, Australia; [Turner, Graham] Gymnast Australia, Albert Pk, Vic, Australia								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600008	42	Article; Article		
J	Edmonds, Shaun								Bodily Capital and the Strength and Conditioning Professional								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			9	14		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000356			DEC 2018	2018	Bourdieu's theory of difference is a useful sociological theory for exploring the ways in which a strength and conditioning professional's physical appearance may factor in to assumptions about their knowledge and skills. Through bourdieu's concept of bodily capital, this article examines the ways in which the physical appearance of the body is often interpreted as a marker of knowledge and expertise. The conflation of physical appearance with coaching and training ability has numerous economic, social, and cultural implications within the strength and conditioning field.		[Edmonds, Shaun] Univ Maryland, Dept Kinesiol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Edmonds, Shaun] Univ Maryland, Dept Kinesiol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600003	30	Article; Article		
J	Hedrick, Allen								Exercise Technique: Dumbbell Clean								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			112	117		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000372			DEC 2018	2018	Enhancing muscular power is an important component of training, both for athletes and those training for general fitness. The weightlifting movements are recognized as an effective training method when the goal is enhanced power development. Less recognized is that the weight lifting movements can be effectively performed with dumbbells. The purpose of this article is to describe the technique involved in the dumbbell clean and identify some of the benefits that can occur as a result of performing this exercise with dumbbells.		[Hedrick, Allen] Colorado State Univ, Athlet Dept, Pueblo, CO 81001 USA; [Hedrick, Allen] Colorado State Univ, Athlet Dept, Pueblo, CO 81001 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600017	14	Article; Article		
J	Comfort, Paul; McMahon, John J.; Suchomel, Timothy J.								Optimizing Squat Technique-Revisited								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	6			68	74		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000398			DEC 2018	2018	The back squat is the cornerstone of many strength and conditioning programs, with increases in back squat strength associated with improvements in athletic performance. A variety of back squat techniques have been described throughout the literature and can be observed on social media and in strength and conditioning facilities, with no current consensus regarding optimal technique. Based on currently available evidence, a full depth squat, with a natural foot position, approximately shoulder-width apart, with unrestricted anterior movement of the knees, an upright trunk, with a forward and upward gaze is recommended. These recommendations should permit individualization based on individual anthropometrics. For a video abstract of this article, see supplemental digital content 1 (see video, http://links.lww.com/scj/a241).		[Comfort, Paul; McMahon, John J.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Salford, Greater Manches, England								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000457621600010	75	Article; Article		
J	Jaafar, Hamdi; Lajili, Hanene								The Influence of Verbal Instruction on Measurement Reliability and Explosive Neuromuscular Performance of the Knee Extensors								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			21	34		10.2478/hukin-2018-0031			DEC 2018	2018	The current study aimed to examine the effect of verbal instruction on explosive force production and between-session measurement reliability during maximal voluntary contractions of knee extensors. Following familiarization, 20 healthy males performed 3 maximal contractions with a "hard-and-fast" instruction and 3 maximal contractions with a "fast" instruction during 2 test-retest sessions. Knee extension maximal voluntary force (F-max) and the maximal rate of force development (RFDmax) were measured. Maximal electromechanical delay (EMDmax), and the maximal rate of muscle activation (RMA(max)) of quadriceps muscles were determined. No significant effect of instruction was observed on F-max (p > 0.05). The RFDmax and RMA(max) were significantly higher with the "fast" compared to the "hard-and-fast" instruction (36.07%, ES = 1.99 and 37.24%, ES = 0.92, respectively), whereas EMDmax was significantly lower with the "fast" instruction compared to the "hard-and-fast" instruction (-3.79%, ES = -0.29). No significant differences between test and retest measurements were found (p < 0.05). However, the reliability of the RFDmax was higher with the fast instruction compared to the hard-and-fast instruction (CV: 7.3 vs. 16.2%; ICC: 0.84 vs. 0.56). Besides, the RFDmax was associated with the RMA(max) and EMDmax with a significant effect of instruction. Data showed that the instruction given prior contracting muscle affected explosive force production and associated neuromuscular variables. As a result, the "fast" instruction may be preferred in the assessment of explosive force capacity of skeletal muscle during maximal efforts.		[Jaafar, Hamdi] Inst Savoir Montfort Rech, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Jaafar, Hamdi] Univ Ottawa, Fac Med, Dept Biochem Microbiol & Immunol, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Lajili, Hanene] Ctr Reeduc & Readaptat Fonct La Chataigneraie, Menucourt, France; [Jaafar, Hamdi] Inst Savoir Montfort, 713 Montreal Rd, Ottawa, ON K1K 0T2, Canada								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200002	37	Article; Article		
J	Dean, Elizabeth								Maximizing the Functional Performance Outcomes of Patients Undergoing Rehabilitation by Maximizing their Overall Health and Wellbeing								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			57	68		10.2478/hukin-2018-0039			DEC 2018	2018	To maximize the performance of an athlete, a team of experts work together to ensure each athlete achieves the maximal benefit from their prescribed exercise conditioning programs. In addition to the exercise specialists, the athlete's team frequently includes psychologists (who address performance anxiety, stress, and depression), counselors (who address smoking cessation, reduction or elimination of alcohol consumption if necessary, weight optimization, and optimal sleep), and nutritionists (who address optimal nutrition and body mass attributes). Such a collaborative approach has become standard practice for athletes aiming to excel in their sports. Despite unequivocal and compelling evidence, this paradigm has only weakly been transferred to the needs of patients participating in rehabilitation programs. These individuals, like the athlete, also need to achieve their highest level of functional performance and recovery for carrying out their activities of daily living, managing the needs of their families, and often returning to work. This article reviews the evidence-based literature and the implications of this multifaceted approach in rehabilitation programs. The augmented benefits to exercise training and conditioning (prescriptive activity/exercise and less sitting) along with their 'effect sizes' are described in the rehabilitation context, in conjunction with smoking cessation, reduced harmful alcohol consumption, optimal nutrition, optimal body mass, manageable stress, and optimal sleep. These factors can be viewed as physical performance enhancers both in individuals participating in rehabilitation whose aim is maximal performance and recovery and in athletes aiming for maximal performance in their sports. Thus, without targeted attention to these lifestyle factors, rehabilitation outcomes cannot be maximized. The evidence presented in this article has implications for health professionals including physical therapists and others who are practicing in rehabilitation settings and those working with individuals in need in the community.		[Dean, Elizabeth] Univ British Columbia, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Med, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Dean, Elizabeth] Univ British Columbia, 212,Friedman Bldg,2177 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z3, Canada								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200005	45	Article; Article		
J	Paulauskas, Rutenis; Masiulis, Nerijus; Vaquera, Alejandro; Figueira, Bruno; Sampaio, Jaime								Basketball Game-Related Statistics that Discriminate Between European Players Competing in the NBA and in the Euroleague								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			225	233		10.2478/hukin-2018-0030			DEC 2018	2018	This study aimed to identify the game-related statistics that discriminated between Euroleague basketball players and European basketball players playing in the NBA, when competing in the same event (EuroBasket 2015). There was a total of 78 matches played by 24 teams in two groups of analysis: NBA, participants in the European Championship who played in the NBA season of 2014-2015 (n = 26); Euroleague, participants in the European Championship who played in the Euroleague season of 2014- 2015 (n = 82). The players' performance variables were normalized to the time they spent on the court. To identify which variables best discriminated between the NBA and the Euroleague performance profiles, a descriptive discriminant analysis was conducted. Structure coefficients (SC) from the matrix greater than vertical bar 0.30 vertical bar were interpreted as meaningful contributors to discriminating between the groups. The results revealed a significant function (p = 0.008, canonical correlation of 0.51, Lambda = 0.74, reclassification = 84.2%) and substantial performance differences in game-related statistics much related to the influence of body size (body height and mass), such as two-point field goals made (SC = 0.42) and missed (SC = 0.40), free-throws made (SC = 0.55), defensive rebounds (SC = 0.62), blocks (SC = 0.48) and suffered fouls (SC = 0.34). No differences were found at the level of game-related statistics indirectly related to perception, such as assists, turnovers or steals. Also, the greater body size in NBA players was likely related to higher variability in performance, thus, being an important topic for coaches and recruiters to analyse.		[Paulauskas, Rutenis] Lithuanian Univ Educ Sci, Fac Sport & Hlth, Studentu G 39, LT-08106 Vilnius, Lithuania; [Paulauskas, Rutenis; Masiulis, Nerijus; Figueira, Bruno] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Fac Sport Biomed, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Vaquera, Alejandro] Univ Leon, Fac Sport Sci, Leon, Spain; [Figueira, Bruno; Sampaio, Jaime] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Paulauskas, Rutenis] Lithuanian Univ Educ Sci, Fac Sport & Hlth, Studentu G 39, LT-08106 Vilnius, Lithuania								35							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200020	32	Article; Article		
J	Lopez de Subijana, Cristina; Lorenzo, Jorge								Relative Age Effect and Long-Term Success in the Spanish Soccer and Basketball National Teams								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			197	204		10.2478/hukin-2018-0027			DEC 2018	2018	The aims of this study were: i) to analyze whether relative age effect occurs in the athletes of the junior national teams and professional athletes in Spain in general and in soccer and basketball, and ii) to compare the long-term success of the players selected for the junior national team between these sports. The samples for this study were Spanish professional soccer (n=461) and basketball (n=250) players in the 2013-2014 premier league and players from the junior Spanish soccer (i. e., n=273; U-17: n=107; U-19: n=166) and basketball (i. e., n=240; U-18: n=120, U-16: n=120) teams that classified to play in the European Championships (from 2004 to 2013). Junior players (42.3%) were more frequently born in the 1st quarter of the year than the professional players (30.7%) (chi(2)(3) = 30.07; p=.001; Vc=157). This was found in both basketball (chi(2)(3)=12.2.; p=.007; Vc=.158) and soccer (chi(2)(3)=20.13; p<.001; Vc =.166). Long- term success is more frequent in soccer, where 59.9% of the juniors selected for the national team played later in the premier league, while in basketball that percentage was 39.6% (chi(2)(1) = 14.64; p<.001; Vc=.201). On the other hand, 79.4% and 39.8% of the professional soccer and basketball players had been previously selected for junior national teams (chi(2)(1) = 60.2; p<.001; Vc=.386), respectively. The talent selection process should be reviewed as players born in the second half of the year have fewer opportunities to stand out.		[Lopez de Subijana, Cristina; Lorenzo, Jorge] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sport Sci Fac, Ave Martin Fierro 7, E-28040 Madrid, Spain; [Lopez de Subijana, Cristina] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sport Sci Fac, Social Res Sport Grp, Ave Martin Fierro 8, E-28040 Madrid, Spain								35							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200017	42	Article; Article		
J	Michalczyk, Malgorzata; Zajac, Adam; Mikolajec, Kazimierz; Zydek, Grzegorz; Langfort, Jozef								No Modification in Blood Lipoprotein Concentration but Changes in Body Composition After 4 Weeks of Low Carbohydrate Diet (LCD) Followed by 7 Days of Carbohydrate Loading in Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			125	137		10.2478/hukin-2018-0102			DEC 2018	2018	Recently, low carbohydrate diets have become very popular due to their numerous health benefits. Unfortunately, little is known about their chronic effects on the blood lipid profile and other cardiovascular disease risk factors in athletic populations. We compared the results of a four week, well-planned low carbohydrate diet (LCD) followed by seven days of carbohydrate loading (Carbo-L) on fasting lipids - triacylglycerol's (TAG), LDL-C, HDL-C, total cholesterol (TCh), glucose, insulin and HOMA-IR levels in 11 competitive basketball players. During the experiment, we also measured body mass (BM) and body composition changes: body fat (BF), % of body fat (PBF), and fat free mass (FFM). Both diet procedures significantly changed the fasting serum concentration of TAG (p < 0.05) and body fat content (kg and %) (p < 0.05), without negative changes in FFM. The Carbo-L procedure increased (p < 0.05) fasting glucose levels significantly. A LCD may be suggested for athletes who want to reduce body mass and fat content without compromising muscle mass. Several weeks on a LCD does not change the lipoprotein - LDL-C and HDL-C level significantly, while a seven-day Carb-L procedure may increase body fat content and fasting glucose concentration. Such dietary procedures are recommended for team sport athletes to reduce fat mass, lipid profile disorders and insulin resistance.		[Michalczyk, Malgorzata; Zydek, Grzegorz; Langfort, Jozef] Acad Phys Educ Im J Kukuczki Katowice, Dept Sport Nutr, 72a Mikolowska St, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Zajac, Adam] Acad Phys Educ Im J Kukuczki Katowice, Dept Sports Training, Katowice, Poland; [Mikolajec, Kazimierz] Acad Phys Educ Im J Kukuczki Katowice, Dept Team Sport Games, Katowice, Poland; [Michalczyk, Malgorzata] Acad Phys Educ Im J Kukuczki Katowice, Dept Sport Nutr, 72a Mikolowska St, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200011	47	Article; Article		
J	Basiaga-Pasternak, Joanna								Cognitive Scripts, Anxiety and Styles of Coping with Stress in Teenagers Practising Sports								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			261	271		10.2478/hukin-2018-0041			DEC 2018	2018	The aim of the study was to present the relationships between the way of perceiving oneself and the world by young athletes, the cognitive anxiety and the ways of coping with stress. The target group consisted of 222 participants (114 boys and 108 girls) aged 16-20, students of sports-profiled secondary schools. The participants specialised in both winter and summer sports, as well as in individual and team sport disciplines. The following tools were implemented: Attitudes to Intrapersonal, Interpersonal and to the World Questionnaire, Coping Inventory for Stressful Situations (CISS) and Sport Anxiety Scale. The study showed that negative perception of oneself and others increases the level of cognitive anxiety and decreases the tendencies to search for social contacts in the face of stress. With regard to the positive image of oneself and others, the opposite was observed. The above relationships refer mainly to girls who practise sports.		[Basiaga-Pasternak, Joanna] Univ Sch Phys Educ Cracow, Fac Sports & Phys Educ, Dept Psychol, Krakow, Poland; [Basiaga-Pasternak, Joanna] Univ Sch Phys Educ Cracow, Dept Psychol, Al Jana Pawla II 78, PL-31571 Krakow, Poland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200023	35	Article; Article		
J	Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Rey, Ezequiel; Vidal, Benjamin; Garcia-Nunez, Javier								Work-rate Analysis of Substitute Players in Professional Soccer: Analysis of Seasonal Variations								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			165	174		10.2478/hukin-2018-0025			DEC 2018	2018	The aims of this study were to evaluate physical performance of substitute players versus those replaced or completing the entire match, determine physical performance of substitute players across different playing positions and examine variations in match-related running performance in substitute players throughout the entire competitive season. The sample was composed of 943 observations of professional players who participated in the first division of the Spanish League (La Liga) during the 2014-2015 season. The players were divided into three different groups: players who completed the entire match (n = 519), players who were replaced (n = 212) and substitute players (n = 212). Substitute players covered greater distances at medium and high intensity compared to the players who played the entire match and those who were replaced. Position-specific trends indicated that attackers and central midfielder increased the distance covered at high-intensity running compared to their peers who played the whole match. During the competitive season, it was observed that substitute players attained greater match running performance during the mid-season period, allowing them to cover more distance for different variables of running performance compared to the start and end of the season.		[Padron-Cabo, Alexis; Rey, Ezequiel; Vidal, Benjamin] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Campus Univ A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain; [Garcia-Nunez, Javier] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ, Campus Univ As Lagoas S-N, Orense, Spain; [Padron-Cabo, Alexis] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Campus Univ A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								39							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200014	27	Article; Article		
J	Tay, Cheryl Sihui; Kong, Pui Wah								A Video-Based Method to Quantify Stroke Synchronisation in Crew Boat Sprint Kayaking								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			45	56		10.2478/hukin-2018-0038			DEC 2018	2018	The study aimed to quantify stroke synchronisation in two-seater crew boat sprint kayaking (K2) using a video-based method, and to assess the intra- and inter-rater reliabilities of this method. Twelve sub-elite sprint kayakers (six males and six females) from a national team were paired into six single-gender K2 crews. The crews were recorded at 120 Hz with a sagittal-view video camera during 200-m time trials. Video analysis identified four meaningful positions of a stroke (catch, immersion, extraction and release). The timing difference (termed "offset") between the front and back paddlers, within each K2, at each stroke position was calculated, with zero offset indicating perfect synchronisation. Results showed almost perfect intra-rater reliability of this method. The intra-class correlation (ICC) ranged from .87 to 1.00, and standard error of measurement (SEM) from 0 to 5 milliseconds (ms). Inter-rater reliability was substantial to almost perfect (ICC .72 - .94, SEM 2 - 6 ms). On average, 35 strokes were analysed for each crew and the mean offset was 17 ms, or 5.7% of water phase duration. Crews were more synchronised at the catch (11 ms, 3.8%) than the release (21 ms, 7.2%). However, the stroke synchronisation profiles of the six sub-elite crews varied considerably from each other. For example, the best performing male and female crews had directly contrasting profiles. This suggests that there is no universal stroke synchronisation profile for well-trained sprint kayakers. This video-based method may aid future investigations on improving performance.		[Tay, Cheryl Sihui; Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore; [Kong, Pui Wah] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200004	15	Article; Article		
J	Altavilla, Cesare; Cejuela, Roberto; Caballero-Perez, Pablo								Effect of Different Feedback Modalities on Swimming Pace: Which Feedback Modality is Most Effective?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			187	195		10.2478/hukin-2018-0026			DEC 2018	2018	To compare the effect of three different feedback modalities on swimming pace, sixteen male swimmers and triathletes participated in this study. Each participant swam 3 x 400 m, one for each feedback modality, swimming front crawl at 80% of their individual swimming critical speed. Three feedback modalities were examined: self-pacing, real time visual feedback and real time voice feedback. The swimmers adopted a fast start in all feedback modalities. In the real time voice feedback modality, the data recorded during the second lap (200 m) showed a significant improvement of their swimming pace approaching the swimming pace intended (-1.47 s, p < .01, medium effect size 0.79). A significant improvement toward the swimming pace intended was also noticed at the third split time (300 m) (0.05 s, p < .01, large effect size 0.81) and at the fourth split time (400 m) (0.46 s, p < .01, medium effect size 0.76). In self-pacing, the swimmers were not able to swim in line with the swimming pace intended. In real time visual feedback modality, the swimmers did not show a significant improvement approaching the swimming pace intended. The results revealed that communication with the swimmers using the real time voice feedback induced a significant improvement in their swimming pace and could help the athletes to swim with accurate and consistent pace.		[Altavilla, Cesare] Univ Alicante, Foods Anal & Nutr Grp, Alicante, Spain; [Cejuela, Roberto] Univ Alicante, Dept Sect Phys Educ & Sport, Campus San Vicente del Raspeig, San Vicente Del Raspeig 03540, Alicante, Spain; [Caballero-Perez, Pablo] Univ Alicante, Dept Community Nursing Prevent Med Publ Hlth & Hi, Alicante, Spain; [Cejuela, Roberto] Univ Alicante, Dept Sect Phys Educ & Sport, Campus San Vicente del Raspeig, San Vicente Del Raspeig 03540, Alicante, Spain								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200016	28	Article; Article		
J	Graupensperger, Scott A.; Tisak, Marie S.								Moral Behavior in the Locker Room Predicts Perceptions of Task Cohesion in Youth Ice Hockey Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			273	280		10.2478/hukin-2018-0047			DEC 2018	2018	Task cohesion (i.e., perceptions of team unity towards a task goal and positive feelings towards one's own involvement) is associated with myriad psychosocial benefits for youth athletes. Accordingly, sport researchers and youth sport stakeholders are interested in ways of fostering task cohesion. Recent work has found evidence that prosocial and antisocial behaviors among teammates are associated with athletes' perceptions of task cohesion; however, this research has been limited to moral behavior that takes place during gameplay. Despite youth sport experiences extending well beyond practices and games, we know very little about how moral behavior between teammates, in settings outside gameplay, relates to perceptions of task cohesion. To address this knowledge gap, the current study investigated whether prosocial and antisocial behaviors in the locker room setting were associated with perceptions of task cohesion in a sample of 238 youth male ice hockey players (M-age = 10.75). Using hierarchical regression analyses, our results revealed that (a) perceptions of peer prosocial behavior was positively associated with task cohesion, (b) perceptions of peer antisocial behavior was negatively associated with task cohesion, and (c) self-reported perceptions of participants' own moral behavior was not significantly associated with task cohesion. Given the association with perceptions of task cohesion, these findings underline the value in promoting prosocial behavior and reducing antisocial behavior in sport settings outside gameplay and hold multiple theoretical and practical implications. Notably, moral behavior that takes place outside gameplay settings may be related to perceptions of task cohesion that primarily relates to goals and interactions during gameplay.		[Graupensperger, Scott A.] Penn State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [Graupensperger, Scott A.] Penn State Univ, Clin & Translat Sci Inst, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [Tisak, Marie S.] Bowling Green State Univ, Dept Psychol, Bowling Green, OH 43403 USA; [Graupensperger, Scott A.] Penn State Univ, 276 Rec Hall, University Pk, PA 16801 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200024	21	Article; Article		
J	Malinauskas, Romualdas; Malinauskiene, Vilija								The mediation effect of Perceived Social Support and Perceived Stress on the relationship between Emotional Intelligence and Psychological Wellbeing in Male Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			291	303		10.2478/hukin-2018-0017			DEC 2018	2018	This study aimed to examine the relationship between emotional intelligence (EI) and psychological wellbeing in a three-month follow-up study of male athletes. In addition, we examined the mediating role of perceived social support and perceived stress on the relationship between EI and psychological wellbeing. The sample included 398 male athletes who completed measures of emotional intelligence (Schutte Self-Report Inventory), psychological wellbeing (Ryff Psychological Wellbeing Scale; SSRI), perceived social support (Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support), and perceived stress (Perceived Stress Scale-10). Results from structural equation modelling procedures identified that perceived social support and perceived stress partially mediated the association between EI and psychological wellbeing. The sequential mediation effects of perceived social support-perceived stress on the relations between EI and wellbeing were confirmed. Finally, limitations and recommendations for future research were considered.		[Malinauskas, Romualdas; Malinauskiene, Vilija] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Dept Hlth Phys & Social Educ, Sporto 6, LT-44221 Kaunas, Lithuania; [Malinauskas, Romualdas] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Dept Hlth Phys & Social Educ, Sporto 6, LT-44221 Kaunas, Lithuania								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200026	51	Article; Article		
J	Moreira, Alexandre; Aoki, Marcelo Saldanha; Schultz de Arruda, Ademir Felipe; da Silva Machado, Daniel Gomes; Elsangedy, Hassan Mohamed; Okano, Alexandre Hideki								Salivary BDNF and Cortisol Responses During High-Intensity Exercise and Official Basketball Matches in Sedentary Individuals and Elite Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			139	149		10.2478/hukin-2018-0040			DEC 2018	2018	Salivary cortisol increases in response to stressors, including physical exertion and psychological stress associated with sports competition. In addition, stress may induce change in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). However, there are still no data available to compare the salivary BDNF level in sedentary male individuals and elite team-sport male athletes, regularly involved in activities that require elevated attention and concentration. This information could contribute to the advance of understanding of the effect of regular exercise on the salivary level of BDNF, the pre-to-post change in salivary BDNF during exercise, and the association between salivary cortisol and salivary BDNF responses to physical exercise. Therefore, this study aimed to compare the concentration of salivary cortisol and BDNF, before and after exercise, in sedentary individuals and elite male basketball players. The sedentary group (23.0 +/- 4.2 yrs) performed a high-intensity exercise protocol and the basketball players (18.6 +/- 0.5 yrs) participated in three official basketball matches. Saliva samples were tested for cortisol and BDNF using ELISA. A significant increase in salivary cortisol from pre- to post-match was observed only for the basketball players (p < 0.05). Basketball players also presented a higher salivary BDNF concentration for both resting (pre) and post-physical exercise (p < 0.05); however, no change in pre- to post-exercise salivary BDNF was observed for either group (p > 0.05). Elevated BDNF in athletes may be associated to their repeated exposure to stressful competition situations. The current findings also suggest that different mechanisms might be involved in salivary cortisol and BDNF responses during physical exercise.		[Moreira, Alexandre; Schultz de Arruda, Ademir Felipe] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Aoki, Marcelo Saldanha] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [da Silva Machado, Daniel Gomes; Elsangedy, Hassan Mohamed; Okano, Alexandre Hideki] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Phys Educ, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Okano, Alexandre Hideki] Fed Univ ABC, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Moreira, Alexandre] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Ave Prof Mello Moraes 65, BR-05508030 Sao Paulo, Brazil								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200012	35	Article; Article		
J	Kutac, Petr; Uchytil, Jaroslav								Differences in Loading and Morphological Structure of the Take-off and Non-take-off Limb in Athletics Jumping Events								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				65	1			99	109		10.2478/hukin-2018-0023			DEC 2018	2018	The objective of the study was to assess differences between the take-off and non-take-off limbs of athletes in track-and-field jumping events based on a segmental analysis of body composition as well as kinetic analysis. The research included 19 participants (10 males, 9 females) with an average age of 18.1 +/- 2.8 years. We measured body height, body mass, body composition (body fat, fat free mass, bone mineral content and bone density) and segmental distribution of these variables. To assess strength of the lower limbs, we performed reaction force analysis during takeoff and run symmetry. The difference in the representation of soft tissues between the take-off and non-take-off limbs was not significant; the differences were 0.06%, 0 kg in body fat and 0.01 kg in fat free mass. The differences in the values of bone matter were significant. The bone mineral content was 0.05 kg higher in the take-off limb (p < 0.001), and bone density was 0.07 g/cm2 higher (p < 0.001); the practical significance of the difference was intermediate (d = 0.5). Kinetic analysis showed that athletes exerted greater force on the pad with the take-off limb than the non-take-off limb when taking off while using arms in the first peak of the vertical force. The difference determined in this type of take-off was statistically significant (p < 0.05); the practical significance of the difference was medium (d = 0.7). The difference in the second peak of the vertical reaction force in the take-off arm was not statistically significant. The differences were reflected in the different bone matter compositions.		[Kutac, Petr; Uchytil, Jaroslav] Univ Ostrava, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Varenska 40a, Ostrava 70200, Czech Republic; [Kutac, Petr] Univ Ostrava, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Varenska 40a, Ostrava 70200, Czech Republic								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000456344200009	27	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Yin-Hua; Liu, Yeou-Teh								Fencer's perception of affordances of an opponent's attack								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1023	1030		10.1177/1747954118772038			DEC 2018	2018	We investigated fencers' perception of affordances of the opponent by asking them to estimate the reach-ability (length of lunge) of the opponent that varied in height and moved toward them in different paces. Their task was to initiate a backward step at the moment that they perceived to be reached by the opponent in a lunge attack. All trials were recorded by a video camera for data digitizing process and analyses. The results revealed that the opponent's approaching velocity, but not the opponent's stature, influenced fencers' estimates, suggesting that action-related characteristics of the observed person were more influential on perceiver's perception of affordances of the observed person. Moreover, fencers' perception of "time-to-contact by the opponent" changed as a function of the opponent's velocity, suggesting that in the context of combat sports that time-to-contact could be a useful variable for the control of actions when interacting with a moving opponent.		[Chen, Yin-Hua; Liu, Yeou-Teh] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Grad Inst Exercise & Sport Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chen, Yin-Hua] Natl Chengchi Univ, Res Ctr Mind Brain & Learning, 64 ZhiNan Rd,Sect 2, Taipei 11605, Taiwan; [Liu, Yeou-Teh] Natl Taiwan Normal Univ, Dept Athlet Performance, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chen, Yin-Hua] Natl Chengchi Univ, Res Ctr Mind Brain & Learning, 64 ZhiNan Rd,Sect 2, Taipei 11605, Taiwan								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900022	34	Article; Article		
J	Johnson, Carra G.; Vargas, Tiffanye M.; Watson, Jack C.; Pedersen, William C.								Coaching efficacy, moral disengagement, and responses to hostile aggression among high school coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			828	840		10.1177/1747954118787065			DEC 2018	2018	This mixed-methods study examined the association between high school sport coaches' moral disengagement and their perceived coaching efficacy, and began to explore coaches' justifications of and consequences for the hostile aggression exhibited by their athletes. High school coaches in the United States (N = 449) completed online surveys that included the Moral Disengagement in Sport Scale, Coaching Efficacy Scale II-High School Teams, and questions regarding their beliefs about and responses to athlete's hostile aggressive behaviors. Hierarchical regression analyses were conducted to determine the association between coaches' moral disengagement and their perceived coaching efficacy, and multiple analysis of variance explored differences in moral disengagement and coaching efficacy based on coaches' justifications for athletes' hostile aggression. Qualitative analyses involved coding coaches' responses to questions of when they believed hostile aggression displayed by athletes was justified, and their typical responses to athletes' hostile aggression. Results suggested that coaches' moral disengagement was a negative predictor of their total perceived coaching efficacy, as well as specific aspects of their perceived coaching efficacy. Further, a majority of coaches indicated that hostile aggression was never acceptable or justified. Based on these results, differences in moral disengagement were found between coaches who did and did not justify athlete hostile aggression. The most common consequences for hostile aggression involved reduced playing time and additional physical conditioning. The current findings highlight the significance of coaches' moral disengagement as it relates to their coaching, supporting a need for greater coaching education around coaching philosophies and approaches to disciplining athletes.		[Johnson, Carra G.; Watson, Jack C.] West Virginia Univ, Dept Sport Sci, 375 Birch St, Morgantown, WV 26505 USA; [Vargas, Tiffanye M.] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Kinesiol, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Pedersen, William C.] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Psychol, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Johnson, Carra G.] West Virginia Univ, Coll Phys Act & Sport Sci, 375 Birch St, Morgantown, WV 26505 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900002	45	Article; Article		
J	Zavertiaeva, Marina; Naidenova, Iuliia; Parshakov, Petr								No confidence-no glory? Coach behavioral bias and team performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			863	873		10.1177/1747954118757438			DEC 2018	2018	According to behavioral economics, coaches may be unconsciously biased, and this could lead to deviations from rational behavior, which in turn affects team performance. We analyze the influence of a particular behavioral bias of coaches, overconfidence, on the performance of soccer teams. We use a sample of 63 coaches managing all the soccer clubs involved in the Russian Football Premier League during the four seasons between 2010 and 2013/2014. To measure overconfidence, we use a press-based metric that is generally accepted in corporate governance studies and complement it with an additional continuous measure. Coaches' overconfidence positively and significantly influences team average scores, both in the baseline regression and robustness checks. Additional testing allows us to draw conclusions regarding the inverse U-shaped relationship between overconfidence and performance. We cannot conclude that overconfidence has any effect on coaches' risk-taking that can be approximated by goals scored or allowed. We apply the well-studied methodology of overconfidence measurement to the new field of sport economics, thereby generating novel results. Although overconfidence is perceived negatively in corporate governance, we show that in sport, it is beneficial to be overconfident. The findings contribute to sport literature, more specifically to the field of performance in soccer, with results that support the importance of a coach's personal traits.		[Zavertiaeva, Marina; Naidenova, Iuliia; Parshakov, Petr] Natl Res Univ, Higher Sch Econ, Int Lab Intangible Driven Econ, Perm, Russia; [Naidenova, Iuliia] Natl Res Univ, Higher Sch Econ, 27 Lebedeva, Perm 614000, Russia								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900005	57	Article; Article		
J	Brice, Sara M.; Ness, Kevin F.; Everingham, Yvette L.; Rosemond, Doug; Judge, Lawrence W.								Analysis of the separation angle between the thorax and pelvis, and its association with performance in the hammer throw								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			993	1000		10.1177/1747954118787490			DEC 2018	2018	The hammer throw is perhaps one of the most misunderstood and difficult events to learn in track and field. Improvements in technique are focused on strategies designed to increase implement release velocity. The purpose of this cross-sectional investigative study was to examine the association between the angle of separation between the thorax and pelvis and performance in the hammer throw. Two male and four female throwers were used to assess positional data of the hammer, thorax, and pelvis. Hammer positional data were used to determine linear hammer speed at release, release angle, and release height. Thorax and pelvis positional data were used to determine thorax rotation relative to the pelvis (separation angle). The association between values of separation angle at key instances and performance was examined. Performance was determined by distance thrown (55.69 +/- 3.42 m). Release speeds (24.32 +/- 0.70 m/s) were also examined as a contributory factor towards performance and were included to account for instances where throwers released the hammer using sub-optimal release heights and angles which negatively affected distance thrown. The separation angle at its smallest within each turn was found to have a strong negative association with the performance indicators, especially in the first two turns (significant correlates ranged from -0.82 to -0.97). This finding indicates when throwers reduced the separation to a smaller value, performance was enhanced. Separation angle was at its smallest in double support. This suggests that throwers may improve performance by reducing the separation angle during double support phases.		[Brice, Sara M.; Ness, Kevin F.; Everingham, Yvette L.] James Cook Univ, Phys Sci, Douglas, Australia; [Brice, Sara M.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Douglas, Australia; [Judge, Lawrence W.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Rosemond, Doug] Australian Inst Sport, Movement Sci, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Judge, Lawrence W.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900018	29	Article; Article		
J	Raisbeck, Louisa; Yamada, Masa; Diekfuss, Jed A.								Focus of attention in trained distance runners								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1143	1149		10.1177/1747954118798396			DEC 2018	2018	The superiority of using an external focus of attention for learning and performance benefits has been documented in distance running. However, there is limited research examining the actual attentional focus strategies adopted by distance runners. The purpose of this study was to describe the focus of attention used by distance runners in practice and competition and to better understand where these athletes seek information about improving performance. Sixteen distance runners (32.1 +/- 10.0 yr) who run at least 20 mile/week (37.7 +/- 10.8 mile/week) completed a questionnaire examining information related to attentional focus during training and competition and where athletes go for educational resources. Results indicate that distance runners do not solely adhere to external focus of attention, rather utilize multiple forms of attentional focus strategies that are not examined in laboratory research. Further, it seems that most training advice is received from coaches or training partners and not scientific literature.		[Raisbeck, Louisa; Yamada, Masa] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, Dept Kinesiol, Greensboro, NC 27455 USA; [Diekfuss, Jed A.] 2800 Winslow Ave, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Raisbeck, Louisa] Univ North Carolina Greensboro, 237 Coleman Bldg, Greensboro, NC 27455 USA								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900035	35	Article; Article		
J	Sas-Nowosielski, Krzysztof; Szostak, Wioletta; Herman, Ewa								What makes coaches burn out in their job? Prevalance and correlates of coaches' burnout in Poland								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			874	882		10.1177/1747954118788539			DEC 2018	2018	Objective The aim of this study was to determine the range of burnout among sport coaches in Poland and identify its personal (especially psychological) and situational correlates. Methods The sample consisted of 174 male and 70 female coaches from 21 sports disciplines, aged from 23 to 82 (M = 39.00, SD = 10.93). Coaching experience ranged from 1 to 40 years (M = 12.00, SD = 9.99). Participants filled in four questionnaires: Maslach Burnout Inventory, Coaching Efficacy Scale. The questionnaire of adaptive and maladaptive perfectionism, and Preferred Management Style Questionnaire. Results Coaches reported experiencing low levels of emotional exhaustion and depersonalisation, but high level of reduced sense of personal accomplishments. The latter was observed in 61.06% of respondents. The correlates of individual dimensions of burnout turned out to be: (a) emotional exhaustion - gender, age, deriving financial satisfaction from one's job, motivation efficacy, maladaptive perfectionism, democratic management style, and the nature of competition; (b) depersonalisation - deriving financial satisfaction from one's job, building character efficacy, maladaptive perfectionism, democratic, autocratic and liberal management styles; (c) reduced sense of personal accomplishments - deriving financial satisfaction from one's job, motivation efficacy, game strategy efficacy, maladaptive perfectionism, and democratic management style. Conclusions Our study suggests that sport coaches are not emotionally exhausted and do not depersonalise their charges, but are professionally undervalued. This phenomenon is related to several personal and situational variables.		[Sas-Nowosielski, Krzysztof; Szostak, Wioletta; Herman, Ewa] Akad Wychowania Fizycznego, Katowicach Mikolowska 72 b, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Sas-Nowosielski, Krzysztof] Akad Wychowania Fizycznego, Katowicach Mikolowska 72 b, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900006	36	Article; Article		
J	Bosselut, Gregoire; Boiche, Julie; Salame, Bastien; Fouquereau, Evelyne; Guilbert, Laure; Serrano, Oscar C.								Transformational leadership and group cohesion in sport: Examining the mediating role of interactional justice using a within- and between-team approach								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			912	928		10.1177/1747954118801156			DEC 2018	2018	The present cross-sectional study aimed to investigate the mediating role of interactional justice, in the relationship between transformational leadership and cohesion in team sports. Multilevel Structural Equation Modeling was employed to test individual- and group-level models using a sample of 315 athletes from 25 team sports. The results suggest that interactional justice acts as a mediator in the relationship between transformational leadership and cohesion. Nevertheless, results are contingent on the level of analysis (i.e. individual- or group-level) and the specific dimension of interactional justice (i.e. interpersonal or informational justice). Implications for coaches are discussed.		[Bosselut, Gregoire; Boiche, Julie; Salame, Bastien; Guilbert, Laure; Serrano, Oscar C.] Univ Montpellier, Univ Paul Valery Montpellier 3, EPSYLON EA 4556, F-34000 Montpellier, France; [Fouquereau, Evelyne] Univ Francois Rabelais Tours, Lab Ages Vie, Montpellier, France; [Bosselut, Gregoire] Univ Montpellier, UFR STAPS, 700 Ave Pic St Loup, F-34000 Montpellier, France								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900010	46	Article; Article		
J	Halbrook, Meghan; Watson, Jack C., II								High school coaches' perceptions of their efficacy to work with lesbian, gay, and bisexual athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			841	848		10.1177/1747954118787494			DEC 2018	2018	Historically, sport, at all levels, has created an environment of silence, negativity, and even fear for lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) athletes. The purpose of this study was to identify coach characteristics and perceptions of their efficacy related to working with LGB youth athletes in the USA. An online survey was completed by n = 631 male and female head and assistant coaches from 25 different sports. Respondents filled out coaching demographics, team demographics, and the Efficacy Scale to Coach Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Athletes.(5) Results revealed statistically significant differences in perceptions of LGB athletes between younger and older coaches, coaches who had previously coached openly LGB athletes and those who have not, and coaches with no religious affiliation and those who are Baptist, Catholic, or Protestant Christian. Although there does not appear to be a clear cut demographic of coaches who perceive themselves to be more effective when coaching LGB athletes, experiences coaching LGB athletes seem to contribute to higher perceptions of coaching ability and comfort. Future studies could include interviews with coaches and athletes to more thoroughly assess the current sport team environment with regard to LGB athletes, as well as the creation of high school coach education training and resources.		[Halbrook, Meghan] Randolph Coll, Sport & Exercise Studies, 2500 Rivermont Ave, Lynchburg, VA 24503 USA; [Watson, Jack C., II] West Virginia Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Morgantown, WV 26505 USA; [Halbrook, Meghan] Randolph Coll, Sport & Exercise Studies, 2500 Rivermont Ave, Lynchburg, VA 24503 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900003	30	Article; Article		
J	Painczyk, Heinrich; Hendricks, Sharief; Kraak, Wilbur								Intra and inter-reliability testing of a South African developed computerised notational system among Western Province Club Rugby Coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1163	1170		10.1177/1747954118796368			DEC 2018	2018	The coach's role is to enhance the performance of players through observing the performance, evaluating the performance, providing feedback on the performance and then implementing appropriate interventions to improve the performance. In coaching environments specifically, there can only be confidence in the data generated from computerised notational systems if the system provides reliable information and statistics. There are many systems on the market that are being utilised by amateur club rugby coaches and performance analysts; yet only a few have been tested for reliability. The aim of the study is to firstly, determine the inter- and intra-coder reliability of a South African developed computerised notational systems and secondly, to compare the coding proficiency of Western Province Rugby Union club coaches versus an experienced coder. Five club coaches with no prior experience of computerised notational systems or coding and one experienced coder participated in the study. The participants (n = 6) each coded five international rugby matches and re-coded two of these matches to determine the intra-coder reliability. The reliability between the different coding agreements was measured using Cohen's kappa statistic (K). The study revealed a good inter-coder agreement for all the performance indicators (K = 0.79) with the strongest agreement being for the set pieces (K = 0.93). Very good intra-coder reliability was also revealed for all the coders; there was a mean of K = 0.82. Comparing the club coach's coding to the experienced coder showed a good mean agreement of K = 0.77. The study concluded that the EncodeProRX is a reliable computerised notational systems that can be accurately and consistently used in club rugby set-up.		[Painczyk, Heinrich; Kraak, Wilbur] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Fac Hlth Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief] Leeds Beckett Univ, Phys Act & Hlth, Inst Sport, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Kraak, Wilbur] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Sport Sci, Sport Sci, ZA-7602 Cape Town, Matieland, South Africa								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900038	25	Article; Article		
J	Leo, Francisco M.; Gonzalez-Ponce, Inmaculada; Sanchez-Oliva, David; Pulido, Juan J.; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas								Adaptation and validation of the Transactive Memory System Scale in Sport (TMSS-S)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1015	1022		10.1177/1747954118767509			DEC 2018	2018	This study aimed to adapt and validate the Transactive Memory System Scale in Sport with professional players. The participants were 375 male and 229 female professional players, aged between 15 and 38 years (M = 24.34, SD = 4.03). The structure of the instrument was analyzed through confirmatory procedures and supporting the hypothesized theoretical model of one second-order factor and three first-order factors. Results showed that the hierarchical structure solution had a good fit of the data. Thus, the structure of the Transactive Memory System Scale in Sport is composed with one second-order factor and three first-order factors: specialization, credibility, and coordination. Furthermore, reliability and invariance across gender were also shown, and the scale had good concurrent validity. These results suggest that the Transactive Memory System Scale in Sport is a valid and reliable instrument to measure the transactive memory system in sport with male and female professional players.		[Leo, Francisco M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Teacher Training, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Caceres, Spain; [Gonzalez-Ponce, Inmaculada; Sanchez-Oliva, David; Pulido, Juan J.; Garcia-Calvo, Tomas] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Didact Mus Plast & Corporal Express, Caceres, Spain; [Sanchez-Oliva, David] Univ Cadiz, Fac Educ, Dept Didact Phys Educ Plast & Mus, Cadiz, Spain; [Leo, Francisco M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Teacher Training, C Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900021	32	Article; Article		
J	MacDonald, Dani; Cronin, John; Macadam, Paul								Key movements and skills of wicket-keepers in one day international cricket								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1156	1162		10.1177/1747954118786849			DEC 2018	2018	The wicket-keeper is a specialist position within the fielding unit of cricket; however, this position has not been afforded a great deal of attention in empirical research. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to identify the movement and skill demands of wicket-keeping in one day international cricket through video analysis. Television footage of eight games (16 innings) from the 2011 one day international World Cup was analysed using the video analysis package SportsCode. The variables of interest included 7 movement-related activities and 15 skills-related activities from a mean innings of 41 +/- 11 overs. Following the crouch action, which is required every ball, the highest average (times per innings) movement activities were the lateral step (78), lateral shuffle (53) and running to the stumps (27). The highest average skill activities were to receive the ball from the field (42), throw underarm (32) and take the ball following the bowler's delivery (24). The most important skill for a wicket-keeper is the ability to catch the ball, be it with one or both hands, either from an almost stationary position standing close to the batsman, or following an explosive movement such as a dive or sprint. A wicket-keeping specific catching test should reflect this, and include a multitude of catching scenarios. Due to the fact that the wicket-keeper performs repetitive movement in multiple planes, training and movement assessments should take this into account. The findings from this study can assist practitioners in understanding assessment, program and skill development aspects of the wicket-keeper position.		[MacDonald, Dani; Cronin, John; Macadam, Paul] Auckland Univ Technol, Millennium Inst Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand; [Macadam, Paul] Auckland Univ Technol, SPRINZ, Auckland 1142, New Zealand								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900037	13	Article; Article		
J	Shang, I-Wei; Ku, Gordon Chih-Ming								How youth athletes satisfy their team? Identifying significant predictors of perceived coach leadership and team cohesion, team commitment: A hierarchical regression analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			883	890		10.1177/1747954118801133			DEC 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to identify how youth athletes' perceptions of coach leadership behavior, team cohesion, and team commitment influenced team satisfaction. Purposive sampling was used to select athletes from 77 athletic teams at 27 middle schools in Hualien County, Taiwan. Five-hundred questionnaires were distributed to students and 403 questionnaires were collected, representing an effective response rate of 80.6%. Descriptive analysis and hierarchical regression analysis were utilized to analyze the data. Results indicated that emotional commitment, coach training, and instructional behavior increased the team satisfaction for both elite and non-elite youth athletes. Moreover, the team satisfaction of elite youth athletes increased with camaraderie whereas that of non-elite youth athletes increased with positive feedback from coaches. We recommend that governments and school administrators conduct coaching workshops to improve instructional behavior.		[Shang, I-Wei; Ku, Gordon Chih-Ming] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Exercise Physiol, 974 I,Sec 2,Univ Rd, Shoufeng, Hualien County, Taiwan; [Shang, I-Wei] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Exercise Physiol, 974 I,Sec 2,Univ Rd, Shoufeng, Hualien County, Taiwan								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900007	61	Article; Article		
J	Brice, Sara M.; Hurley, Matthew; Phillips, Elissa J.								Use of inertial measurement units for measuring torso and pelvis orientation, and shoulder-pelvis separation angle in the discus throw								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			985	992		10.1177/1747954118778664			DEC 2018	2018	Wearable technologies, such as inertial measurement units, are being increasingly utilised in sport to provide immediate feedback to athletes and coaches on movement dynamics. This study examines the validity of inertial measurement units for measuring data pertinent to discus throwing namely shoulder-pelvis separation angle, and torso and pelvis transverse plane orientation. Five discus throwers performed 10 throws, while shoulder-pelvis separation angle, and torso and pelvis transverse plane orientation were measured simultaneously using a motion capture system and inertial measurement unit system. Time-series torso and pelvis orientation data were compared to determine the validity of the inertial measurement unit system for measuring the segment orientation. Discrete shoulder-pelvis separation angle data were compared to determine the validity of the inertial measurement unit system for measuring the discrete data pertinent to discus throwers and coaches. Discrete data examined were magnitudes of separation that occurred when the torso was maximally rotated to the left and right. Data were compared using root mean square difference and root mean square relative to angle range (RMS%). Bland-Altman analyses were also performed. Torso (RMS% = 3%) and pelvis (RMS% = 2%) orientation data agreed closely. Agreement was lower for separation angle (maximum left rotation RMS% = 9%; maximum right rotation RMS% = 13%). Bland-Altman biases indicate inertial measurement units underestimated segment orientation, underestimated maximum right rotation, and overestimated maximum left rotation. The protocol described was valid for measuring the torso and pelvis orientation. Separation angle validity was low, indicating differences in underlying modelling approaches. Further investigation is needed to examine more optimal sensor positioning, and novel ways of examining shoulder-pelvis dynamics.		[Brice, Sara M.] James Cook Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Phys Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Brice, Sara M.; Hurley, Matthew] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Phillips, Elissa J.] Australian Inst Sport, Movement Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Brice, Sara M.] James Cook Univ, Townsville, Qld 4811, Australia								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900017	34	Article; Article		
J	James, Lachlan P.; Haff, G. Gregory; Kelly, Vincent G.; Beckman, Emma M.								Physiological determinants of mixed martial arts performance and method of competition outcome								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			978	984		10.1177/1747954118780303			DEC 2018	2018	This investigation sought to determine the relevance of anaerobic and aerobic-based measures to competition level and bout outcome in mixed martial arts competitors. For the primary analysis, seven higher-level and eight lower-level male mixed martial arts competitors were compared across a series of short-term anaerobic (sprints at 10 and 20 m), repeated maximal effort (repeated sprint ability), and intermittent aerobic tests (Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Level 2)). For the secondary analysis, data were then pooled so relationships could be explored between test performance and percentage of bouts reaching a decision. Cohen's d effect sizes and qualitative magnitude-based inferences were calculated to describe the differences between groups. These same descriptors were used to interpret the output of the regression analysis used to predict decision percentage. Superior performances by the higher-level group were revealed across most variables to a non-trivial magnitude. Furthermore, it was likely that a decrease in short-term anaerobic performance or an increase in intermittent endurance capacity positively related to an increased likelihood of bouts lasting the full scheduled duration. These findings indicate the importance of anaerobic and aerobic qualities to mixed martial arts performance and combat methods.		[James, Lachlan P.; Kelly, Vincent G.; Beckman, Emma M.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [James, Lachlan P.] La Trobe Univ, Dept Rehabil Nutr & Sport, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci Res, Perth, WA, Australia; [Kelly, Vincent G.] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [James, Lachlan P.] La Trobe Univ, Dept Rehabil Nutr & Sport, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900016	29	Article; Article		
J	Crowther, Rian H.; Gorman, Adam D.; Spratford, Wayne A.; Sayers, Mark G.; Kountouris, Alex								Ecological dynamics of spin bowling in test match cricket: A longitudinal analysis of delivery speed between Australia and India								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1048	1056		10.1177/1747954118761202			DEC 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to highlight the effects of the environment on spin bowling tactics in test match cricket. The speed differences employed by Indian and Australian spin bowlers in home and away test matches were examined over a nine-year period. Eleven test matches played in Australia and 10 test matches played in India from 2007 to 2015 were analysed (3413 spin overs). During this time, 12 spin bowlers represented Australia (mean age 28.0 +/- 3.7 years) and 13 represented India (mean age 29.1 +/- 4.1 years). In each environment, the home team's spin bowlers were more successful than the away team's bowlers. There was no difference in mean delivery speed between the teams when competing in either country's conditions. However, success in Australia was associated with less variability of delivery speed. In contrast, success in India was associated with greater variability of delivery speed. This would suggest that neither team changed this aspect of their delivery tactics to suit the opposition's home environment, demonstrating the difficulty that even elite spin bowlers experience in adapting to unfamiliar conditions. These findings highlight the need for diversity in practice conditions by creating representatively designed learning environments to help spin bowlers acquire the adaptive behaviours required in test match cricket.		[Crowther, Rian H.; Kountouris, Alex] Natl Cricket Ctr, Cricket Australia, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Crowther, Rian H.; Gorman, Adam D.; Sayers, Mark G.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Fac Sci Hlth & Educ, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Spratford, Wayne A.] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Discipline Sport & Exercise Sci, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Crowther, Rian H.] Cricket Australia, 20 Greg Chappell St, Albion, Qld 4010, Australia								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900025	43	Article; Article		
J	Blomqvist, Sven; van Biesen, Debbie; Vanlandewijck, Yves								Gear selection between techniques in freestyle cross-country skiing in athletes with intellectual impairment: A pilot study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1150	1155		10.1177/1747954118798233			DEC 2018	2018	Cross-country skiing is a fast-paced, a cognitively demanding, and a popular sport within international organizations including athletes with intellectual impairment (II); however, research on how the level of II affects skiing performance is limited. The aim of this exploratory study was to compare differences in the overall performance (segment time and race time) and gear selection between a sample of cross-country skiers with II (n = 22) and a control group of skiers without II (n = 12), during a competitive 10 km freestyle race. The groups were matched on training background and skiing level based on interviews with coaches and trainers. The independent samples t-test revealed a higher velocity in the first segment for the control group (6.10 +/- 0.62 m/s) compared to the skiers with II (5.50 +/- 0.56 m/s; p < 0.05), but no significant differences in total race time between the groups. With respect to their ability to effectively select gears during the races, there was a significant difference between the groups, where the pattern was that skiers with II used a lower gear compared to the skiers without II and that pattern became even more apparent towards the second half of the race. These findings support the assumption that impaired cognitive function may constrain the ability to optimally select the appropriate gear in function of the characteristics of the skiing track, which is a key determinant of skiing performance.		[Blomqvist, Sven] Univ Gavle, Fac Hlth & Occupat Studies, Dept Hlth & Caring Sci, Kungsbacksvagen 47, S-80176 Gavle, Sweden; [van Biesen, Debbie; Vanlandewijck, Yves] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Rehabil Sci, Fac Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Leuven, Belgium; [Blomqvist, Sven] Univ Gavle, Fac Hlth & Occupat Studies, Dept Hlth & Caring Sci, Kungsbacksvagen 47, S-80176 Gavle, Sweden								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900036	29	Article; Article		
J	Keller, Brad S.; Raynor, Annette J.; Iredale, Fiona; Bruce, Lyndell								Tactical skill in Australian youth soccer: Does it discriminate age-match skill levels?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1057	1063		10.1177/1747954118760778			DEC 2018	2018	Objectives Football Federation Australia (FFA) has identified that Australian athletes are proficient physically, however often lack the technical and tactical skills to excel internationally. The aim of the current study was to assess if a video-based decision-making test could discriminate different age-matched skill levels of talent in Australian soccer. Design Cross-sectional observational. Methods Sixty-two youth male soccer players completed a video-based decision-making test. Results An ANOVA test showed that the video-based test significantly discriminated between all three groups, with the national elite athletes selecting more correct responses than the state elite (65.3 +/- 8.1%; 56.0 +/- 9.1%, respectively). The state elite were more accurate than the sub-elite (45.9 +/- 8.8%). Conclusions Results suggest that a video-based test may be a suitable tool to use in the selection of athletes as a measure of decision-making skill. The low accuracy scores, even for the national elite cohort, suggest that decision-making skill at the youth level has room for improvement and should be prioritised as an area for development.		[Keller, Brad S.; Raynor, Annette J.; Iredale, Fiona] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Keller, Brad S.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900026	32	Article; Article		
J	De Francisco, Cristina; Arce, Constantino; Grana, Mar; Sanchez-Romero, Elisa, I								Measurement invariance and validity of the Athlete Engagement Questionnaire								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1008	1014		10.1177/1747954118787488			DEC 2018	2018	Engagement is a psychological construct that was originally defined in an organizational context to refer to the emotional, cognitive and physical components that drive people to get actively involved in their occupational duties. In sports science, the Athlete Engagement Questionnaire conceptualizes engagement as a multidimensional construct comprising four factors: confidence, vigor, dedication and enthusiasm. The purpose of this study was to analyze the measurement model invariance of the Athlete Engagement Questionnaire across different competitive levels and to provide evidence of construct validity in relation to burnout. To this end, we recruited 1157 athletes of both sexes, aged between 12 and 35 years, to complete the Athlete Engagement Questionnaire and Athlete Burnout Questionnaire. The results provided evidence of Athlete Engagement Questionnaire measurement model invariance and its validity with respect to burnout.		[De Francisco, Cristina] Univ Catolica San Antonio Murcia, Fac Social Sci & Commun, Murcia, Spain; [Arce, Constantino; Grana, Mar; Sanchez-Romero, Elisa, I] Univ Santiago de Compostela, Fac Psychol, Santiago, Spain; [De Francisco, Cristina] Univ Catolica San Antonio Murcia, Ave Los Jeronimos 135, Murcia 30107, Spain								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900020	38	Article; Article		
J	Junggren, Stephan E.; Elbaes, Lars; Stambulova, Natalia B.								Examining coaching practices and philosophy through the lens of organizational culture in a Danish high-performance swimming environment								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1108	1119		10.1177/1747954118796914			DEC 2018	2018	Interest in coaching and coaches, as well as coach-athlete relationships, has for a long time been a traditional and solid part of talent development literature. In recent times, talent development research has employed a holistic ecological approach and emphasized the important role of a broader athletic environment in athletes' development and a constitutive role of organizational culture in the success of such an environment. This case study uses the holistic ecological perspective to examine coaching practices and philosophy through the lens of organizational culture in a Danish high-performance swimming environment. The environment was selected based on its performance success but also because of its nontraditional organization compared to typical Danish swimming clubs. Data were generated from in-depth interviews with six coaches, 30 h of participant observation of training and meetings, and analysis of related documents. Thematic data analysis was guided by Schein's model of organizational culture. The findings revealed the organizational culture that incorporates specific features of coaching practices and philosophy through cultural artifacts, espoused values, and basic assumptions. In the artifacts, coaching practices were explicit (e.g. flexible training groups and schedules) and philosophy implicit (e.g. ongoing flow of feedback), while in the espoused values, coaching philosophy was explicit (e.g. swimmers as whole persons, long-term development focus) and consistent with basic cultural assumptions (e.g. swimmers' autonomy as a basis for progress). The study revealed that the cultural lens was helpful in exploring consistency between what coaches communicate about what they do (and how and why they do it) and what they actually did (and how they did it).		[Junggren, Stephan E.; Elbaes, Lars; Stambulova, Natalia B.] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Sports Sci & Clin Biomech, Learning & Talent Sport, Odense, Denmark; [Stambulova, Natalia B.] Halmstad Univ, Sch Hlth & Welf, Box 823, S-30118 Halmstad, Sweden; [Stambulova, Natalia B.] Halmstad Univ, Sch Hlth & Welf, Box 823, S-30118 Halmstad, Sweden								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900032	30	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Minjung; Kim, Yukyoum; Won, Doyeon								From commanding to serving athletes: Nurturing the coach-athlete relationship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			891	901		10.1177/1747954118790810			DEC 2018	2018	As one of the emerging themes in research on sport management leadership, servant leadership focuses on facilitating individual growth and moral development. The present study tested a hypothesized research model that demonstrates support for the effects of a head coach's servant leadership on athletes' ethical development and team outcome confidence through the quality that characterizes the coach-athlete relationship. We recruited 347 student-athletes of football teams and men's basketball teams who play under the Division I system of the US National Collegiate Athletic Association. Whereas the quality of the coach-athlete relationship partially mediated the association between servant leadership and ethical development, it fully mediated the paths from servant leadership to team outcome confidence. This study provides empirical support for the positive influence of servant leadership behaviors and advances an improved understanding of the role played by the aforementioned relationship quality in coaching leadership research.		[Kim, Minjung] Univ Mississippi, University, MS 38677 USA; [Kim, Yukyoum] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Won, Doyeon] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sport Business, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Kim, Minjung] Univ Mississippi, Dept Hlth Exercise Sci & Recreat Management, 220 Turner Ctr, University, MS 38677 USA								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900008	60	Article; Article		
J	Bandura, Comille T.; Kavussanu, Maria								Authentic leadership in sport: Its relationship with athletes' enjoyment and commitment and the mediating role of autonomy and trust								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			968	977		10.1177/1747954118768242			DEC 2018	2018	Consequences of leadership styles have become a noteworthy area of research for sport psychology researchers. However, there is scant research on the concept of authentic leadership. To date, research in sport has demonstrated that authentic leadership is associated with positive outcomes for athletes such as satisfaction, commitment, trust and perceptions of choice. In this study, we examined whether athletes' perceptions of coach authentic leadership were associated with their commitment and enjoyment and whether trust in coach and perceived autonomy mediated these relationships. Participants were 435 athletes (female = 211) from team (e.g. football, hockey; n = 338) and individual sports (e.g. boxing, swimming; n = 97) who completed questionnaires about perceived authentic leadership of their coach, perceived autonomy and trust in their coach and their enjoyment and commitment. Structural equation modelling revealed that athletes' perceptions of their coach authentic leadership were positively related to their enjoyment and commitment and these relationships were mediated by perceived autonomy and trust. The findings suggest that authentic leadership in coaches may facilitate enjoyment and commitment in athletes, and this may occur via autonomy and trust.		[Bandura, Comille T.; Kavussanu, Maria] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Bandura, Comille T.] Univ Birmingham, Edgbaston Rd, Birmingham B15 2TT, W Midlands, England								57							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900015	43	Article; Article		
J	Visek, Amanda J.; Mannix, Heather; Chandran, Avinash; Cleary, Sean D.; McDonnell, Karen; DiPietro, Loretta								Perceived importance of the fun integration theory's factors and determinants: A comparison among players, parents, and coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			849	862		10.1177/1747954118798057			DEC 2018	2018	Conceptualized by youth soccer players, parents, and coaches, the fun integration theory's FUN MAPS identify 11 fun-factors and 81 fun-determinants. The purpose of this study was to conduct a secondary analysis of those data to explore the extent to which the parents (responsible for supporting) and the coaches (tasked with delivering soccer programs) perceived importance of the factors and determinants were congruent with the players' self-reported importance. We produced pattern-match displays and go-zone displays, which are innovative, visual representations of group comparisons that are unique to concept-mapping methods, to determine the overall consensus between the groups, in addition to identifying exact points of agreement and disagreement. Results indicated congruence between parents and players was extraordinarily high (r = 0.89-0.93) and significantly more congruent than coaches and players (r = 0.75-0.84). Results also indicated consensus was significantly lower among adolescent players and coaches (r = 0.66-0.71) compared to younger players and coaches (r = 0.77-0.90). Disparities in the perceived importance of specific fun-factors and fun-determinants between groups are discussed. In addition, transformative learning theory is introduced as an immersive approach to developing fun schemas consistent with the youth athletes' fun ethos that will enable coaches to be athlete-centric when creating fun, positive sport experiences for youth.		[Visek, Amanda J.; Mannix, Heather; Chandran, Avinash; DiPietro, Loretta] George Washington Univ, Dept Exercise & Nutr Sci, Washington, DC 20052 USA; [Cleary, Sean D.] George Washington Univ, Dept Epidemiol & Biostat, Washington, DC 20052 USA; [McDonnell, Karen] George Washington Univ, Dept Prevent & Community Hlth, Washington, DC 20052 USA; [Visek, Amanda J.] George Washington Univ, 950 New Hampshire Ave,NW Suite 200, Washington, DC 20052 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900004	71	Article; Article		
J	Pion, Johan; Segers, Veerle; Stautemas, Jan; Boone, Jan; Lenoir, Matthieu; Bourgois, Jan G.								Position-specific performance profiles, using predictive classification models in senior basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	6			1072	1080		10.1177/1747954118765054			DEC 2018	2018	Basketball players display different performance characteristics when in different playing positions. Traditional statistical techniques such as Multivariate Analyses of Variance (MANOVA's) are insufficient when predicting specific positions. Alternatively linear statistical models, such as discriminant analysis, have been used. Recently non-linear statistical methods have been introduced into sport science via artificial neural networks that have been proven to have high potential. This study will seek to identify whether artificial neural networks are capable of providing additional insights with regards to the position-specific characteristics found in basketball. A total of 150 Belgian elite players performed physical and physiological tests in the preseason phase. Linear and non-linear predictive models were applied. Discriminant analysis and multi-layer perceptron analysis were able to position, respectively, 92 and 88% of the players correctly. The results of the variable importance analysis demonstrated that the positions clearly differentiated from each other. Herein, weight was the most important factor. Secondly the shuttle run, the speed at anaerobic threshold and the sprint time between 5 and 10 m (respectively, 93.2; 85.0 and 79.5% importance of weight) were important factors. The current study showed that basketball positions clearly differentiate elite Belgian basketball players based solely on basketball independent tests.		[Pion, Johan; Segers, Veerle; Stautemas, Jan; Boone, Jan; Lenoir, Matthieu; Bourgois, Jan G.] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Pion, Johan] HAN Univ Appl Sci, Sport & Exercise Studies, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Boone, Jan; Bourgois, Jan G.] Ghent Univ Hosp, Ctr Sports Med, Ghent, Belgium; [Pion, Johan] Watersportlaan 2, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000452267900028	29	Article; Article		
J	Varga, Csaba; Veszelka, Medea; Kupai, Krisztina; Borzsei, Denise; Deim, Zoltan; Szabo, Renata; Torok, Szilvia; Priksz, Daniel; Gesztelyi, Rudolf; Juhasz, Bela; Radak, Zsolt; Posa, Aniko								The Effects of Exercise Training and High Triglyceride Diet in an Estrogen Depleted Rat Model: The Role of the Heme Oxygenase System and Inflammatory Processes in Cardiovascular Risk								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			580	588					DEC 2018	2018	Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality of premenopausal women are significantly lower compared to men of similar age. However, this protective effect evidently decreases after the onset of menopause. We hypothesized that physical exercise could be a potential therapeutic strategy to improve inflammatory processes and cardiovascular antioxidant homeostasis, which can be affected by the loss of estrogen and the adverse environmental factors, such as overnutrition. Ovariectomized (OVX, n= 40) and sham-operated (SO, n= 40) female Wistar rats were randomized to exercising (R) and non-exercising (NR) groups. Feeding parameters were chosen to make a standard chow (CTRL) or a high triglyceride diet (HT) for 12 weeks. Aortic and cardiac heme oxygenase (HO) activity and HO-1 concentrations significantly decreased in all of the NR OVX and SO HT groups. However, the 12-week physical exercise was found to improve HO-1 values. Plasma IL-6 concentrations were higher in the NR OVX animals and rats fed HT diet compared to SO CTRL rats. TNF-alpha concentrations were significantly higher in the NR OVX groups. 12 weeks of exercise significantly reduced the concentrations of both TNF-alpha and IL-6 compared to the NR counterparts. The activity of myeloperoxidase enzyme (MPO) was significantly increased as a result of OVX and HT diet, however voluntary wheel-running exercise restored the elevated values. Our results show that estrogen deficiency and HT diet caused a significant decrease in the activity and concentration of HO enzyme, as well as the concentrations of TNF-alpha, IL-6, and the activity of MPO. However, 12 weeks of voluntary wheel-running exercise is a potential non-pharmacological therapy to ameliorate these disturbances, which determine the life expectancy of postmenopausal women.		[Varga, Csaba; Veszelka, Medea; Kupai, Krisztina; Borzsei, Denise; Deim, Zoltan; Torok, Szilvia] Univ Szeged, Dept Physiol Anat & Neurosci, Szeged, Hungary; [Priksz, Daniel; Gesztelyi, Rudolf; Juhasz, Bela] Univ Debrecen, Dept Pharmacol & Pharmacotherapy, Debrecen, Hungary; [Radak, Zsolt] Semmelweis Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Inst Sport Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Szabo, Renata; Posa, Aniko] Univ Szeged, Interdisciplinary Excellence Ctr, Dept Physiol Anat & Neurosci, Szeged, Hungary; [Posa, Aniko] Univ Szeged, Kozep Fasor 52, H-6726 Szeged, Hungary								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700009	30	Article; Article		
J	Bartholomae, Eric; Johnson, Zachary; Moore, Jeffery; Ward, Kathryn; Kressler, Jociien								Reducing Glycemic Indicators with Moderate Intensity Stepping of Varied, Short Durations in People with Pre-Diabetes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			680	685					DEC 2018	2018	Investigate the effects of short duration stair climbing/descending at a self-selected pace on post-prandial glucose responses in adults. Thirty participants (10 female) completed 4 oral glucose tolerance tests on separate days. Following glucose consumption, participants underwent seated rest (control) or walked up/down 21 stairs at a self-selected comfortable pace for 10, 3, and 1min in randomized order. Blood glucose was measured by capillary sampling from finger sticks every 15min until values for all trials converged. Area under the curve (AUC) was calculated by trapezoidal rule. In addition, cardiometabolic measurements were taken during stair exercise with a mobile metabolic cart. Results are presented as mean (SD) unless stated otherwise. All stair-climbing trials reduced peak (30min) postprandial blood glucose levels compared to the control [(1 min = 12 (31), p = 0.026; 3 min = -15 (25), p = 0.003; 10 min = 35 (32) mg/dL, p < 0.001]. At 45min, there were significant reductions only for the 3 and 10 min trials [13 (29) and 23 (31) mg/dL, p = 0.023 and < 0.001 respectively], but not the 1 min trial [6 (33) mg/dL, p = 0.317]. There were significant differences in AUC compared to the control only for the 3 and 10min trials [502 (1141) and 866 (1123) mg/dL.min(-1), p = 0.023 and < 0.000] but not for the 1min trial [353 (1265) mg/dL.min(-1), p = 0.110]. Median (interquartile range) RPEs reported for the 1, 3, and 10min trials were 1.0 (1.5), 2.0 (2), and 3.0 (2.0) respectively, while VO2 was n/a, 54 (12), and 59 (13)% of peak, respectively. Total metabolic cost was 1.4 (0.5), 4.0 (1.0), and 11.9 (2.1) L O-2, respectively. A single 1min bout of low-moderate intensity stair stepping can significantly lower peak glucose concentration, with longer bouts being more effective.		[Bartholomae, Eric; Johnson, Zachary; Moore, Jeffery; Ward, Kathryn; Kressler, Jociien] San Diego State Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Bartholomae, Eric] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth Solut, Tempe, AZ USA; [Kressler, Jociien] 5500 Campanile Dr, San Diego, CA 92182 USA								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700021	36	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Sung Eun; Koh, Young-Chul; Cho, Joon-Haeng; Lee, Sae Yong; Lee, Hae-Dong; Lee, Sung-Cheol								Biomechanical Effects of Ball Position on Address Position Variables of Elite Golfers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			589	598					DEC 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to investigate address position variables in response to changes in ball position in golfers. Eleven male professional golfers were instructed to perform their golf swing. A three-dimensional motion analysis system, with eight infrared cameras and two force platforms, was used to capture the address positions. A golf ball has a diameter of 4.27 cm, and a radius of 2.14 cm. Even small movements of ball position in the mediolateral (M-L) and anteroposterior (A-P) directions significantly changed the address position. When the ball was moved to the left, the shoulder rotation and club-face aim rotated toward the left of the target, and the left vertical ground reaction force increased. When the ball was moved to the right, the opposite findings were observed. When the ball was moved closer, the trunk, hip, knee, ankle, and absolute arm angle extended; the lie angle of the golf club increased; and the center of pressure moved toward the posterior direction. These changes were reversed when the ball was moved further away. The M-L ball position critically changed the address positions of the upper extremities in the horizontal plane, and the A-P ball position critically changed the angles of whole body parts in the sagittal plane. Furthermore, clubhead kinematics at impact such as club-face aim, club path, and angle of attack were significantly changed in the M-L ball position; and club-head speed and angle of attack were significantly changed in the A-P ball position. This in-depth understanding of the address position in association with the ball position could provide valuable data for swing coaches when finding a golfer's optimal address position.		[Kim, Sung Eun; Koh, Young-Chul; Lee, Sae Yong; Lee, Hae-Dong; Lee, Sung-Cheol] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Cho, Joon-Haeng] Hansung Univ, Dept Liberal Arts & Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Hae-Dong; Lee, Sung-Cheol] Yonsei Univ, Frontier Res Inst Convergence Sports Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Sae Yong] Yonsei Univ, Yonsei Inst Sports Sci & Exercise Med, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Sung-Cheol] 321 Sports Sci Complex,50 Yonsei Ro, Seoul 03722, South Korea								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700010	27	Article; Article		
J	Colosio, Alessandro L.; Pedrinolla, Anna; Da Lozzo, Giorgio; Pogliaghi, Silvia								Heart Rate-Index Estimates Oxygen Uptake, Energy Expenditure and Aerobic Fitness in Rugby Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			633	639					DEC 2018	2018	The purpose of the study was to verify the suitability of heart rate-index (HRindex) in predicting submaximal oxygen consumption (VO2), energy expenditure (EE) and maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) during treadmill running in rugby players. Fifteen professional rugby players (99.8 +/- 12.7 kg, 1.85 +/- 0.09 m) performed a miming incremental test while VO2 (breath-bybreath) and heart rate (FIR) were measured. HRindex was calculated (actual HR/resting HR) to predict submaximal and maximal VO2 ({[(HRindex x 6)-5.0] x (3.5 body weight)}) and EE. Measured and predicted VO2 and EE were compared by two-way RM-ANOVA (method, speed), correlation and Bland-Altman analysis. Measured and predicted VO2max were compared by paired t-test, correlation and Bland-Altman analysis. Submaximal VO2 and EE significantly increased (baseline VO2: 8.1 +/- 1.6 ml.kg(-1).min(-1) VO2max: 46.8 +/- 4.3 ml.kg(-1).min(-1), baseline EE: 0.03 +/- 0.01 kcal.kg(-1).min(-1), peak EE: 0.23 +/- 0.03 kcal.kg(-1).min(-1)) as a function of speed (p < 0.001 and p < 0.001 for VO2 and EE respectively) yet measured and predicted values at equal treadmill speeds were not significantly different (p = 0.17; p = 0.16) and highly correlated (r = 0.95; r = 0.94). The Bland-Altman analysis confirmed a non-significant bias between measured and estimated VO2 (measured: 40.3 +/- 10.7, estimated: 40.7 +/- 10.1 ml.kg(-1).min(-1), bias = 1.35 ml.kg(-1).min(-1), z = 1.12, precision = 3.39 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)) and EE (measured: 20.0 +/- 0.05 kcal.kg(-1).min(-1), estimated: 20.0 +/- 0.05 kcal.kg(-1).min(-1), bias = 0.00 kcal.kg(-1).min(-1), z = 0.04, precision = 0.02 kcal.kg(-1).min(-1)). Estimated and predicted VO2max were not statistically different (p = 0.91), highly correlated (r = 0.96), and showed a nonsignificant bias (bias = 0.17, z = 0.22, precision = 1.29 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)). HRindex is a valid field method to track VO2, EE and VO2max during miming in rugby players.		[Colosio, Alessandro L.; Pedrinolla, Anna; Da Lozzo, Giorgio; Pogliaghi, Silvia] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Colosio, Alessandro L.; Da Lozzo, Giorgio; Pogliaghi, Silvia] Univ Verona, Rugby Res Ctr, Verona, Italy; [Pogliaghi, Silvia] Univ Verona, Dept Neurosci Biomed & Movement Sci, Verona, Italy; [Pogliaghi, Silvia] Univ Verona, Rugby Res Ctr, Verona, Italy								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700015	40	Article; Article		
J	Sanz-Quinto, Santiago; Brizuela, Gabriel; Lopez-Grueso, Raid; Flatt, Andrew A.; Aracil-Marco, Adolfo; Reina, Raul; Moya-Ramon, Manuel								Monitoring Heart Rate Variability Before and After a Marathon in an Elite Wheelchair Athlete: A Case Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			557	562					DEC 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to analyze heart rate variability (HRV) oscillations before and after a marathon which involved trans-meridian air travel and substantial time zone differences in a professional wheelchair athlete with Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease. The natural logarithm of the root mean square difference between adjacent normal R-R intervals (Ln rMSSD) was measured daily on the days before, including and following the race. Relative to baseline, small (-3.8 - -4.6%) reductions in LnRMSSD were observed following relocation and on race-day, indicating only minor effects of travel on cardiac-autonomic activity. On the morning following the marathon, a 23.1% reduction in Ln rMSSD was observed, which returned to baseline by 48 h. The race time set by the athlete was the world-leading time in his class. This case study showed that Ln rMSSD responses to marathon in an elite wheelchair athlete with CMT was similar to those previously reported among unrestricted endurance athletes.		[Sanz-Quinto, Santiago; Lopez-Grueso, Raid; Aracil-Marco, Adolfo; Reina, Raul; Moya-Ramon, Manuel] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Sports Res Ctr, Sport & Exercise Sci, Elche, Spain; [Brizuela, Gabriel] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys & Sports Educ, Valencia, Spain; [Flatt, Andrew A.] Georgia Southern Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Kinesiol, Savanna, GA USA; [Aracil-Marco, Adolfo] UMH, CSIC, Inst Neurociencias, Elche, Spain; [Moya-Ramon, Manuel] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Dept Hlth Psychol, Inst Hlth & Biomed Res, ISABIAL FISABIO Fdn, Alicante, Spain; [Moya-Ramon, Manuel] Miguel Hernandez Univ Elche, Dept Hlth Psychol, Av Univ S-N, Elche 03202, Alicante, Spain								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700006	41	Article; Article		
J	Kong, Pui W.; Chua, Yao H.; Kawabata, Masato; Burns, Stephen F.; Cai, Congcong								Effect of Post-Exercise Massage on Passive Muscle Stiffness Measured Using Myotonometry - A Double-Blind Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			599	606					DEC 2018	2018	It is commonly believed that massage can reduce muscle stiffness and is desirable for recovery from exercise. However, the effect massage on muscle stiffness following eccentric exercises is currently unknown. This study aimed to examine the effect of post-exercise massage on passive muscle stiffness over a five-day period. A randomised cross-over study design was adopted. After 40 minutes of downhill running, 18 male recreational runners had one leg received a 16-minute massage and the contralateral leg received a 16-minute sham ultrasound treatment. Passive stiffness for four leg muscles (rectus femoris, biceps femoris, tibialis anterior, and gastrocnemius) was assessed using myotonometry at baseline, immediately post-run, post-treatment, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours post-run. A 2 (treatment) X 7 (time) mixed ANOVA was conducted with a robust procedure on the myotonometry data of each leg muscle to examine the effect of treatment on stiffness. Passive stiffness for all muscles changed over time but no treatment effect was found. Stiffness increased at 24 hours post-run and remained elevated from baseline levels for up to 96 hours across all four muscles. Significant treatment X time interaction was only found in the tibialis anterior but no post-hoc differences were identified. Passive stiffness of major leg muscles increased after a bout of unaccustomed eccentric exercise and remained elevated for up to four days post-exercise. Compared with the placebo treatment, post-exercise massage had no beneficial effect in alleviating altered muscle stiffness in major leg muscles.		[Kong, Pui W.; Chua, Yao H.; Kawabata, Masato; Burns, Stephen F.; Cai, Congcong] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, Singapore, Singapore; [Cai, Congcong] Ng Teng Fong Gen Hosp, Jurong Hlth Serv, Singapore, Singapore; [Kong, Pui W.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, Singapore, Singapore								39							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700011	33	Article; Article		
J	Sharma, Avish P.; Saunders, Philo U.; Garvican-Lewis, Laura A.; Periard, Julien D.; Clark, Brad; Gore, Christopher J.; Raysmith, Benjamin P.; Stanley, Jamie; Robertson, Eileen Y.; Thompson, Kevin G.								Training Quantification and Periodization during Live High Train High at 2100 M in Elite Runners: An Observational Cohort Case Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			607	616					DEC 2018	2018	The questionable efficacy of Live High Train High altitude training (LHTH) is compounded by minimal training quantification in many studies. We sought to quantify the training load (TL) periodization in a cohort of elite runners completing LHTH immediately prior to competition. Eight elite runners (6 males, 2 females) with a (V) over dotO(2peak) of 70 +/- 4 mL.kg(-1).min(-1) were monitored during 4 weeks of sea-level training, then 3-4 weeks LHTH in preparation for sea-level races following descent to sea-level. TL was calculated using the session rating of perceived exertion (sRPE) method, whereby duration of each training session was multiplied by its sRPE, then summated to give weekly TL. Performance was assessed in competition at sea-level before, and within 8 days of completing LHTH, with runners competing in 800 m (n = 1, 1500 m/mile (n = 6) and half-marathon (n = 1). Haemoglobin mass (Hb(mass)) via CO rebreathing and running economy (RE) were assessed pre and post LHTH. Weekly TL during the first 2 weeks at altitude increased by 75% from preceding sea-level training (p = 0.0004, d = 1.65). During the final week at altitude, TL was reduced by 43% compared to the previous weeks (p = 0.002; d = 1.85). The ratio of weekly TL to weekly training volume increased by 17% at altitude (p = 0.009; d = 0.91) compared to prior sea-level training. Hb(mass) increased by 5% from pre- to post-LHTH (p = 0.006, d = 0.20). Seven athletes achieved lifetime personal best performances within 8 days post-altitude (overall improvement 1.1 +/- 0.7%, p = 0.2, d = 0.05). Specific periodization of training, including large increases in training load upon arrival to altitude (due to increased training volume and greater stress of training in hypoxia) and tapering, were observed during LHTH in elite runners prior to personal best performances. Periodization should be individualized and align with timing of competition post-altitude.		[Sharma, Avish P.; Saunders, Philo U.; Garvican-Lewis, Laura A.; Gore, Christopher J.] Australian Inst Sport, Discipline Physiol, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Sharma, Avish P.; Saunders, Philo U.; Periard, Julien D.; Clark, Brad; Gore, Christopher J.; Thompson, Kevin G.] Univ Canberra, UCRISE, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Garvican-Lewis, Laura A.] Australian Catholic Univ, Mary Mackillop Inst Hlth Res, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Raysmith, Benjamin P.] Australian Inst Sport, Discipline Phys Therapies, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Stanley, Jamie; Robertson, Eileen Y.] South Australian Sports Inst, Physiol Dept, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Thompson, Kevin G.] New South Wales Inst Sport, Sydney Olympic Pk, NSW, Australia; [Sharma, Avish P.] Australian Inst Sport, Discipline Physiol, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700012	42	Article; Article		
J	Knufinke, Melanie; Nieuwenhuys, Arne; Maase, Kamiel; Moen, Maarten H.; Geurts, Sabine A. E.; Coenen, Anton M. L.; Kompier, Michiel A. J.								Effects of Natural Between-Days Variation in Sleep on Elite Athletes' Psychomotor Vigilance and Sport-Specific Measures of Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			515	524					DEC 2018	2018	Performance capacity in athletes depends on the ability to recover from past exercise. While evidence suggests that athletic performance decreases following (partial) sleep deprivation and increases following sleep extension, it is unclear to which extent natural variation in sleep impacts performance. Sleep quantity and, for the first time, sleep stages were assessed among 98 elite athletes on three non-consecutive nights within a 7-day monitoring period, along with performance tests that were taken on standardized times each following morning. Performance assessment included psychomotor performance (10-minute psychomotor vigilance task) and sport-specific tests of fine (e.g., accuracy) and gross motor skills (e.g., endurance, power). Mixed-effects models were employed to assess the effect of sleep quantity (total sleep time (TST), sleep onset latency (SOL), wake after sleep onset, sleep efficiency) and sleep stage duration (light, deep, REM) on performance. Average TST was 7:30 +/- 1:05 hours, with a mean variation of 57 minutes across days. Longer TSTs were associated with faster reaction times (p = 0.04). Analyses indicated small and inconsistent effects of sleep quantity (TST, SOL) and sleep staging (light sleep) on gross motor performance, and no effects on fine motor skill performance. Results indicate that natural variation in sleep quantity impacts psychomotor vigilance to a greater extent than athletic performance. Small or absent effects can be a consequence of the rather small variation in non-manipulated sleep. It is suggested that one night of compromised sleep may not be immediately problematic, but that more extreme sleep loss or accumulated sleep debt may have more severe consequences.		[Knufinke, Melanie; Nieuwenhuys, Arne; Geurts, Sabine A. E.; Kompier, Michiel A. J.] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Behav Sci Inst, Room A 08-126,Montessorilaan 3,POB 9104, NL-6500 HE Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Nieuwenhuys, Arne] Univ Auckland, Dept Exercise Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Maase, Kamiel; Moen, Maarten H.] Netherlands Olymp Comm, Netherlands Sports Federat, Arnhem, Netherlands; [Coenen, Anton M. L.] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Donders Ctr Cognit, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Knufinke, Melanie] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Behav Sci Inst, Room A 08-126,Montessorilaan 3,POB 9104, NL-6500 HE Nijmegen, Netherlands								27							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700001	39	Article; Article		
J	Panissa, Valeria L. G.; Fukuda, David H.; de Oliveira, Flaviane P.; Parmezzani, Sergio S.; Campos, Eduardo Z.; Rossi, Fabricio E.; Franchini, Emerson; Lira, Fabio S.								Maximum Strength Development and Volume-Load during Concurrent High Intensity Intermittent Training Plus Strength or Strength-Only Training								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			623	632					DEC 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to compare maximal strength gains during strength training (ST) and concurrent training (CT) consisting of high-intensity intermittent training plus strength training over the course of a 12-week intervention. A secondary purpose was to examine the relationship between strength training volume and strength gain in both groups. Nineteen recreationally active males were divided into CT (n = 11) and ST (n = 8) groups. The CT group performed repeated 1 min efforts at 100% of maximal aerobic speed interspersed by 1 min of passive recovery until accumulating a total miming distance of 5km followed by a strength session (consisting of three sets of seven exercises with loads of 8-12 repetition maximum) twice weekly for a period of 12 weeks. The ST group performed only strength training sessions during the same 12-week period. Strength training total volume-load (Sigma repetitions x load) for the upper-and lower-body was computed, while maximal strength (1RM) was evaluated at baseline, week 8, and week 12. Lower-body volume-load over 12 weeks was not different between groups. Absolute 1RM increased in both groups at week 8 and week 12, while 1RM relative to body mass increased in both groups at week 8, but only ST increased relative maximum strength between week 8 and week 12. There was a statistically significant correlation between strength training lower-body volume-load and maximum strength change between baseline and week 8 for the CT group (r = 0.656), while no significant correlations were found for the ST group. In summary, executing high-intensity intermittent exercise twice a week before strength training did not impair maximal strength after 8 weeks, however, only ST demonstrated an increase in relative strength after 12 weeks.		[Panissa, Valeria L. G.; Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Fukuda, David H.] Univ Cent Florida, Sch Kinesiol & Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [de Oliveira, Flaviane P.; Parmezzani, Sergio S.; Lira, Fabio S.] Univ Estadual Paulista, Exercise & Immunometab Res Grp, Dept Phys Educ, Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil; [Campos, Eduardo Z.] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Dept Phys Educ, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Rossi, Fabricio E.] Univ Fed Piaui, Immunometab Skeletal Muscle & Exercise Res Grp, Dept Phys Educ, Teresina, Brazil; [Franchini, Emerson] Australian Inst Sport, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Lira, Fabio S.] Univ Estadual Paulista, UNESP, Dept Educ, Fis, Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700014	43	Article; Article		
J	Gesbert, Vincent; von Roten, Fabienne C.; Hauw, Denis								Validation of a French Version of the Psychological Characteristics of Developing Excellence Questionnaire (MacNamara & Collins, 2011): A Situated Approach to Talent Development								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			656	661					DEC 2018	2018	This study sought to validate the psychometric properties of a French-language version of the Psychological Characteristics of Developing Excellence Questionnaire (PCDEQ). Data were gathered from 305 athletes in French-speaking Switzerland (mean age: 16.6 yr, SD: 2.9). Translation of the PCDEQ followed established guidelines and included a standardized back-translation process. The psychometric properties were examined by descriptive statistics, Cronbach's alphas for internal reliability, confirmatory factor analysis, intraclass correlations and a paired t-test for test-retest reliability. The results provided evidence of validity of the French version of the PCDEQ. Two items were excluded for low factor loading, and the re-specified model was improved and confirmed the six-dimensional structure with acceptable fit using most criteria (chi(2)/df), RMSEA, SRMR, TFI, CFI. Cronbach's alpha also indicated that internal reliability was adequate for validation. Given the adequate psychometric properties, the French-version PCDEQ can be used with confidence for monitoring and designing interventions to enable aspiring athletes or artists to develop the psychological skills and characteristics that can act as important catalysts for their development.		[Gesbert, Vincent; Hauw, Denis] Univ Lausanne, Lausanne Sports Sci Inst, Res Ctr Psychol Hlth Ageing & Sports Examinat PHA, Lausanne, Switzerland; [von Roten, Fabienne C.] Univ Lausanne, Lausanne Sports Sci Inst, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Gesbert, Vincent] Univ Lausanne, Fac Social & Polit Sci, Lausanne Sports Sci Inst, Quartier UNIL Ctr, Batiment Synathlon,Bur 2423, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700018	40	Article; Article		
J	Kubo, Takafumi; Hirayama, Kuniaki; Nakamura, Nobuhiro; Higuchi, Mitsuru								Influence of Different Loads on Force-Time Characteristics during Back Squats								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			617	622					DEC 2018	2018	The deceleration sub-phase during the back squat (BSQ) makes it difficult to stimulate the muscles throughout the full range of motion, and it has only been reported for one load during BSQ. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether a deceleration sub-phase occurs during BSQ with different loads and to assess the influence of load on the deceleration sub-phase duration and negative impulse during the deceleration subphase. Sixteen healthy men (mean +/- standard deviation: age: 25 +/- 3 years; height: 1.73 +/- 0.07 m; mass: 83.2 +/- 16.1 kg; BSQ one repetition maximum (1RM): 163.8 +/- 36.6 kg; BSQ 1RM/body weight: 2.0 +/- 0.4) who had performed resistance training for at least 1 year were recruited for this study. The subjects performed parallel BSQ with 0%, 12%, 27%, 42%, 56%, 71%, and 85% of each 1RM on a force plate in a random order. The deceleration sub-phase duration and negative impulse during the deceleration sub-phase were calculated from force-time data. The absolute durations of the deceleration sub-phase were not significantly different according to load except for 27% 1RM and 85% 1RM (p = 0.01). However, as the load increased from 12 to 85% 1RM, the relative duration of the deceleration subphase decreased (p < 0.05). The negative impulse during the deceleration sub-phase also increased from 0 to 42% 1RM (p < 0.05). A deceleration sub-phase occurs regardless of the load (0%-85% 1RM), and a large portion of the deceleration subphase occupied the concentric phase, with low-moderate loads, and a large amount of negative impulse occurred during the short deceleration sub-phase with a high load.		[Kubo, Takafumi; Nakamura, Nobuhiro] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Hirayama, Kuniaki; Higuchi, Mitsuru] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan; [Higuchi, Mitsuru] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Tokorozawa, Saitama 3591192, Japan								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700013	27	Article; Article		
J	Morrison, Jaime; Larsen, Brianna; Cox, Amanda J.; Minahan, Clare								The Post-Exercise Inflammatory Response to Repeated-Sprint Running in Hypoxia								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			533	538					DEC 2018	2018	This study investigated the acute inflammatory response to a repeat-sprint training session in hypoxia. Eleven amateur team-sport athletes completed a repeat-sprint training in hypoxia (RSH) protocol (4 sets of 4x4-s running sprints) in both normoxia and normobaric hypoxia (FiO2 0.145 to simulate an altitude of 3000 m) on separate days. Participants provided venous blood samples prior to (PRE), immediately after (POST), and 3 h after (3 h) completion of the protocol, and capillary blood lactate samples were taken upon arrival, at PRE, and at POST. Distance was recorded for each sprint. Venous blood samples were analysed to determine plasma concentrations of cytokines IL-1 beta, IL-ra, IL6, IL-8, IL-10, and TNF alpha. There was no interaction or main effect of condition for any cytokine (p > 0.05). However, time effects indicated that IL-10 was decreased by an average of 19% across the two experimental trials at 3 h compared to POST (p = 0.04), IL-6 increased by 55% from PRE to POST (p = 0.03) then decreased by 43% from POST to 3 h (p = 0.02), and IL-8 decreased by 30% from PRE to POST (p = 0.04) and was further reduced at 3 h compared to POST (by an additional 23%; p = 0.02). A time x condition interaction (p = 0.03) indicated that lactate was higher in hypoxia. There was no interaction effect or effect of condition for sprint distance (p > 0.05). These results suggest that team-sport athletes can perform a RSH session without increasing inflammation when compared to the same training session performed in normoxia.		[Morrison, Jaime; Larsen, Brianna; Minahan, Clare] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Griffith Sports Physiol & Performance, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Larsen, Brianna] Griffith Univ, Menzies Hlth Inst Queensland, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Larsen, Brianna] Queensland Acad Sport, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Cox, Amanda J.] Griffith Univ, Sch Med Sci, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Minahan, Clare] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Griffith Sports Physiol & Performance, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700003	34	Article; Article		
J	Hecimovich, Mark; King, Doug; Dempsey, Alasdair; Gittins, Mason; Murphy, Myles								Youth Australian Footballers Experience Similar Impact Forces to the Head as Junior- and Senior-League Players: A Prospective Study of Kinematic Measurements								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			547	556					DEC 2018	2018	The aims of this study were to investigate the frequency, magnitude, and distribution of head impacts sustained by youth AF players over a season of games and report subjective descriptions on the mechanism-of-injury and sign and symptoms experienced. A prospective observational cohort study with participants (n = 19) (age range 13-14 yr., mean +/- SD 13.9 +/- 0.3 yr.) wearing a wireless impact measuring device behind their right ear over the mastoid process prior to game participation. Participants completed an individual post-game logbook providing feedback responses on recalling having a direct hit to their head with another player or the surface. Players experienced a mean (SD) of 5 (+/- 4) impacts per-player per-game. The peak linear rotation (PLA) median, (95th percentiles) were 15.2g (45.8g). The median (95th percentile) peak rotational acceleration (PRA) were 183,117 deg/s(2) (594,272 deg/s(2)). Median (95th percentile) Head Impact Telemetry Severity profile were 15.1 (46.1) and Risk Weighted Exposure Combined Probability were 0.0012 (0.7062). Twelve participants reported sustaining a head impact. Players reporting a head impact had a faster mean impact duration (t((25)) = 2.4; p = 0.0025) and had a lower median PLA(g) (F-(23,F-2) = 845.5; p = 0.0012) than those who did not report a head impact. These results show similar measurements to the older junior- (aged 17-19) and senior-league (20+) players. Furthermore, players who reported sustaining a direct or indirect impact during games had similar measurements to those who did not, thus highlighting the difficulty of concussion recognition, at least with youth. Future research may need to establish the relationship between concussion-like symptoms in the absence of an impact and in relation to concussion evaluation assessments such as the King-Devick and SCAT5.		[Hecimovich, Mark] Univ Northern Iowa, Div Athlet Training, Cedar Falls, IA USA; [Hecimovich, Mark; King, Doug; Dempsey, Alasdair; Gittins, Mason] Murdoch Univ, Sch Psychol & Exercise Sci, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [King, Doug] Univ New England, Dept Sci & Technol, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Murphy, Myles] Univ Notre Dame Australia, Sch Physiotherapy, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Murphy, Myles] St John God Hlth Care, SportsMed Subiaco, Subiaco, WA, Australia; [Murphy, Myles] Western Australian Cricket Assoc, Sports Sci Sports Med Dept, East Perth, WA, Australia; [Hecimovich, Mark] Univ Northern Iowa, Human Performance Ctr 003C, Div Athlet Training, Cedar Falls, IA 50614 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700005	48	Article; Article		
J	Mate-Munoz, Jose L.; Lougedo, Juan H.; Barba, Manuel; Canuelo-Marquez, Ana M.; Guode-mar-Perez, Jesus; Garcia-Fernandez, Pablo; Lozano-Estevan, Maria del C.; Alonso-Melero, Rosa; Sanchez-Calabuig, Maria A.; Ruiz-Lopez, Monserrat; de Jesus, Fernando; Garnacho-Castano, Manuel, V								Cardiometabolic and Muscular Fatigue Responses to Different CrossFit® Workouts								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			668	679					DEC 2018	2018	CrossFit (R) consists of workouts of the day (WODs) in which different exercises are conducted at high intensity with minimal or no rest periods. This study sought to quantify exercise intensity and muscular fatigue in the three CrossFit (R) session modalities: gymnastics (G), metabolic conditioning (M) and weightlifting (W). Thirty two, young, strength-trained, healthy men completed the three WODs: G ("Cindy"), M (double skip rope jumps) and W (power cleans). The variables measured in the sessions were: mean heart rate (HR), rate of perceived exertion (RPE), blood lactate [lactate], and jump height (H), average power (AP) and maximum take-off velocity (V-max) in a counter movement jump test. In all three WODs, elevated HR values (>= 90% of the theoretical HRmax) were recorded at the time points mid-session and end-session. Mean RPEs were 17.6 +/- 1.6 (G WOD), 16.0 +/- 2.3 (M WOD), and 15.7 +/- 2.0 (W WOD). Postexercise [lactate] was higher than 10 mmol.L-1 for the three WODs. Following the G ("Cindy") and W (power cleans) WODs, respectively, significant muscular power losses were observed in H (7.3% and 8.1%), V-max (13.8% and 3.3%), AP relative (4.6% and 8.3%) and AP total (4.2% and 8.2%) while losses in the M WOD were not significant (p > 0.05). A vigorous intensity of exercise was noted in all three WODs, with greater mean HRs detected in the "Cindy" and skip rope WODs than power clean WOD. Muscular fatigue was produced in response to the "Cindy" and power clean WODs but not the skip rope WOD.		[Mate-Munoz, Jose L.; Lougedo, Juan H.; Barba, Manuel; Garcia-Fernandez, Pablo] Alfonso X El Sabio Univ, Dept Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Canuelo-Marquez, Ana M.; Ruiz-Lopez, Monserrat] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Dept Nursing, Madrid, Spain; [Guode-mar-Perez, Jesus] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Dept Physiotherapy, Madrid, Spain; [Lozano-Estevan, Maria del C.; Sanchez-Calabuig, Maria A.] Alfonso X El Sabio Univ, Dept Pharm, Madrid, Spain; [Alonso-Melero, Rosa] Alfonso X El Sabio Univ, Dept Med, Dept Physiotherapy, Madrid, Spain; [de Jesus, Fernando] Alfonso X El Sabio Univ, Hlth Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Garnacho-Castano, Manuel, V] Pompeu Fabra Univ, GRI AFIRS Sch Hlth Sci, TecnoCampus, Barcelona, Spain; [Mate-Munoz, Jose L.] Alfonso X El Sabio Univ, Avda Univ,1 Bldg C,3rd Floor,Off C-A15, Madrid 28691, Spain								50							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700020	45	Article; Article		
J	Martin-Garcia, Andres; Casamichana, David; Gomez Diaz, Antonio; Cos, Francesc; Gabbett, Tim J.								Positional Differences in the Most Demanding Passages of Play in Football Competition								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			563	570					DEC 2018	2018	The aim of this investigation was to determine the position and duration specific activity of the most demanding passages of play in football players. Global positioning system data were collected from twenty-three football players across a competitive season. A total of 605 individual match files were analysed. Players were categorised based on positional groups; full-back (FB), central defender (CD), midfielder (MF), wide midfielders (WMF) and forwards (FW). The most demanding passage of a match play was analysed using a rolling average method, where maximal values were calculated for four different time durations (1', 3', 5' and 10') using distance (m. min(-1)), high metabolic load distance (HMLD) and average metabolic power (AMP) as variables of interest. Using distance as the criterion variable, MF and WMF positions covered greater distance, and fewer sprinting meters (>7.0 m.s(-1), m.min(-1)). With HMLD as the criterion variable, the values for WMF and MF positions were higher than the CD and FW positions. The MF and WMF positions performed more high-intensity accelerations and decelerations when the criterion variable was AMP. These results provide an understanding of the most demanding passages of play to inform training practices for specific football playing positions.		[Martin-Garcia, Andres; Casamichana, David; Gomez Diaz, Antonio; Cos, Francesc] FC Barcelona Sports Performance Dept, Av Onze Setembre S-N, Barcelona 08970, Spain; [Casamichana, David] Univ Europea Atlantico, Santander, Spain; [Gomez Diaz, Antonio] Murcia Univ, San Javier Univ Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Cos, Francesc] Univ Phys Educ & Sports Sci, INEFC Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; [Gabbett, Tim J.] Gabbett Performance Solut, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Gabbett, Tim J.] Univ Southern Queensland, Inst Resilient Reg, Ipswich, Qld, Australia; [Martin-Garcia, Andres] FC Barcelona Sports Performance Dept, Av Onze Setembre S-N, Barcelona 08970, Spain								126							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700007	37	Article; Article		
J	Linke, Daniel; Link, Daniel; Weber, Hendrik; Lames, Martin								Decline in Match Running Performance in Football is affected by an Increase in Game Interruptions								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	4			662	667					DEC 2018	2018	This study quantified the contribution of game interruptions to the fatigue-related declines in match running performance over the course of a football match. Using a semi-automatic multiple camera system, the running activity of 792 individual German Bundesliga performances was divided into pre-defined 15-minute intervals and subsequently analysed under two prerequisites: with (effective playing time) and without (total playing time) consideration of game interruptions. Results showed a significant decline in effective playing time over the course of a match, from 66.3% of the total playing time in the first 15 minutes to 55.9% in the final 15 minutes of a match. Under consideration of the total playing time, match running performances decreased by 24.2% on average; considering the effective playing time, they decreased on average by only 10.2%. It can, therefore, be concluded that more than half (57.9%) of the commonly reported decline in match running performance cannot be assigned to physical fatigue, but rather to an increase in game interruptions as the game progresses. In conclusion, this study demonstrated for the first time that the decline in players' match running performance during football matches is substantially amplified by a proven increase in game interruptions, indicating that there may be a tendency among practitioners to overestimate fatigue-induced performance declines.		[Linke, Daniel; Link, Daniel; Lames, Martin] Tech Univ Munich, Chair Performance Anal & Sports Informat, Georg Brauchle Ring 60-62, Munich, Germany; [Weber, Hendrik] DFL Deutsch Fussball Liga GmbH, Frankfurt, Germany; [Linke, Daniel] Tech Univ Munich, Chair Performance Anal & Sports Informat, Georg Brauchle Ring 60-62, Munich, Germany								56							Sport Sciences	WOS:000450645700019	32	Article; Article		
J	Gelade, Garry A.								The Influence of Team Composition on Attacking and Defending in Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	8			1174	1190		10.1177/1527002517716974			DEC 2018	2018	This article examines the effects of team composition on the performance of European football (soccer) teams. The scorelines of 1,822 matches involving 98 first-tier teams were analyzed in terms of the overall ability of the teams and the spread of player abilities (heterogeneity) within them. As expected, total team ability has a beneficial effect on performance; the number of goals a team scores is positively related to its own ability and negatively related to the ability of its opponents. Team heterogeneity on the other hand has both beneficial and detrimental effects on performance. Heterogeneous teams score more goals than homogeneous teams, but they also concede more goals. As the effect of heterogeneity on goals conceded is greater than its effect on goals scored, the net effect of heterogeneity is to depress overall performance. The results are discussed in terms of Steiner's framework of group dynamics.		[Gelade, Garry A.] Business Analyt Ltd, 1 Circus Lodge,Circus Rd, London NW8 9JL, England; [Gelade, Garry A.] Business Analyt Ltd, 1 Circus Lodge,Circus Rd, London NW8 9JL, England								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000449808800005	26	Article; Article		
J	Gift, Paul								Performance Evaluation and Favoritism Evidence From Mixed Martial Arts								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	8			1147	1173		10.1177/1527002517702422			DEC 2018	2018	This article investigates various types of bias and favoritism that may be present in the performance evaluations of state-licensed and state-selected judges for mixed martial arts (MMA) events. Using detailed fighter performance statistics collected from after-the-fact video analysis, I investigate live, round-by-round judging decisions for major MMA events held in Nevada and California from 2001 to 2012. Findings do not support hypotheses that judge favor titleholders or disfavor fighters given point deductions but do support bias toward larger betting favorites, those with insurmountable leads, and the fighter who won the previous round. Findings provide nonexperimental support for possible biases in a relatively opaque decision environment involving substantial complexity. The results also have strategic implications for MMA fighters and coaches as well as certified judge trainers the athletic commissions that license and oversee the judges.		[Gift, Paul] Pepperdine Univ, Graziadio Sch Business & Management, 6100 Ctr Dr, Los Angeles, CA 90045 USA; [Gift, Paul] Pepperdine Univ, Graziadio Sch Business & Management, 6100 Ctr Dr, Los Angeles, CA 90045 USA								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000449808800004	30	Article; Article		
J	Hill, Brian								Shadow and Spillover Effects of Competition in NBA Playoffs								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	8			1067	1092		10.1177/1527002517704020			DEC 2018	2018	The National Basketball Association (NBA) playoffs are structured as an elimination tournament where reseeding does not occur after each round. This structure leads to situations where future competitors (the shadow effect) and previous effort (the spillover effect) affect current performance. Using data from the 2009-2014 NBA playoffs, results here find that, when a future opponent is known, a series favorite is significantly more likely to win a game when the future opponent is weaker than expected. Estimates also provide evidence that greater previous effort by teams increases the probability the series favorite wins a game.		[Hill, Brian] Salisbury Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, 1101 Camden Ave, Salisbury, MD 21801 USA; [Hill, Brian] Salisbury Univ, Dept Econ & Finance, 1101 Camden Ave, Salisbury, MD 21801 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000449808800001	14	Article; Article		
J	Dagaev, Dmitry; Sonin, Konstantin								Winning by Losing Incentive Incompatibility in Multiple Qualifiers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	8			1122	1146		10.1177/1527002517704022			DEC 2018	2018	In sport tournaments, the rules are presumably structured in a way that any participant cannot benefit by losing instead of winning. We show that tournament systems, consisting of multiple round-robin and knockout tournaments with noncumulative prizes, which are ubiquitous around the world, are generically incentive incompatible. We use our model to discuss potential remedies and applications.		[Dagaev, Dmitry; Sonin, Konstantin] Natl Res Univ Higher Sch Econ, 20 Myasnitskaya, Moscow 101000, Russia; [Sonin, Konstantin] Univ Chicago, Irving B Harris Sch Publ Policy Studies, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Dagaev, Dmitry] Natl Res Univ Higher Sch Econ, 20 Myasnitskaya, Moscow 101000, Russia								36							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000449808800003	19	Article; Article		
J	Retchford, Timothy H.; Tucker, Kylie J.; Weinrauch, Patrick; Cowan, Sallie M.; Grimaldi, Alison; Kemp, Joanne L.; Crossley, Kay M.								Clinical features of people with hip-related pain, but no clinical signs of femoroacetabular impingement syndrome								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				201	207		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.007			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: Identifying impairments in hip range of motion (ROM) and muscle strength in people with hip-related pain, without signs of femoro-acetabular impingement syndrome (FAIS). Study aims: to determine if hip strength and ROM i) differs between the symptomatic and less-symptomatic hip of people with hip-related pain; and between people with hip-related pain and healthy controls; and ii) are associated with hip-related Quality of Life and pain. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: Thirty participants with hip-related pain who were awaiting hip arthroscopy (22 women; age = 37 +/- 10yrs), 32 healthy controls (19 women; age = 30 +/- 10yrs). Main outcome measures: Hip ROM, muscle strength, pain intensity and the Hip disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (HOOS) were assessed. Results: Less hip flexion ROM (p = 0.004), and extension (p = 0.004), abduction (p = 0.001) and internal rotation (IR) (p = 0.048) strength were measured on the symptomatic compared to non-symptomatic side. Hip-related pain participants had lower hip abduction strength (p = 0.045), and less flexion (p < 0.001), IR (p = 0.027) and external rotation (ER) (p = 0.019) ROM compared to controls. Less ER ROM (p = 0.03-0.04), and greater abduction (p = 0.03-0.04) and adduction strength (p = 0.02) were associated with better patient reported outcome measures. Conclusions: Specific impairments in hip ROM and strength were identified in people with hip-related pain but no FATS. Crown Copyright (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Retchford, Timothy H.; Tucker, Kylie J.; Grimaldi, Alison] Univ Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Weinrauch, Patrick] Wesley Hosp, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Weinrauch, Patrick] Brisbane Hip Clin, Wickham Terrace,Spring Hill, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Cowan, Sallie M.] Clifton Hill Physiotherapy, Clifton Hill, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Cowan, Sallie M.] Univ Melbourne, Parkville, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Kemp, Joanne L.; Crossley, Kay M.] La Trobe Univ, Plenty Rd, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Retchford, Timothy H.] Charles Sturt Univ, Albury, NSW, Australia; [Grimaldi, Alison] Physiotec Physiotherapy, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Kemp, Joanne L.] La Trobe Univ, Latrobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Plenty Rd, Bundoora, Vic, Australia								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100027	27	Article; Article		
J	Eckard, Timothy; Padua, Darin; Mauntel, Timothy; Frank, Barnett; Pietrosimone, Laura; Begalle, Rebecca; Goto, Shiho; Clark, Michael; Kucera, Kristen								Association between double-leg squat and single-leg squat performance and injury incidence among incoming NCAA Division I athletes: A prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				192	200		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.009			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: Determine the association between performance on the double-leg squat (DLS) and single-leg squat (SLS) and prospective injury incidence in athletes. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I university. Participants: 111 incoming NCAA Division I athletes from 10 varsity sports teams. Main outcome measures: Performance on the DLS and SLS were assessed as "poor" or "non-poor." Lower extremity (LE) injury data for the following year were extracted from electronic medical records. Multivariate Poisson regression was used to compare the incidence of LE injuries in athletes with poor versus non-poor performance on the DLS and SLS. Results: The final models for the DLS and SLS were adjusted for sex and LE injury history and yielded an incidence rate ratio (IRR) of 1.33 (95% CI: 0.80 2.22) for the DLS and 1.62 (95% CI: 0.98, 2.66) for the SLS when comparing poor to non-poor movers. Conclusions: Athletes with poor LE movement quality assessed on the DLS or SLS had greater incidence of LE injury than those with non-poor movement quality. This is the first study to demonstrate an association between performance on the double-leg squat and single-leg squat and injury risk in NCAA athletes. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Eckard, Timothy; Padua, Darin; Frank, Barnett; Pietrosimone, Laura; Kucera, Kristen] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Mauntel, Timothy] Walter Reed Natl Mil Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped, Bethesda, MD USA; [Begalle, Rebecca] Daemon Coll, Div Hlth & Human Serv, Amherst, NY USA; [Goto, Shiho] Texas Hlth Ben Hogan Sports Med, Ft Worth, TX USA; [Clark, Michael] Fusionetics LLC, Milton, GA USA; [Eckard, Timothy] Fetzer Hall,CB 8700, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100026	41	Article; Article		
J	Olivier, Benita; Gray, Janine								Musculoskeletal predictors of non-contact injury in cricketers - Few and far between? A longitudinal cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				208	215		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.014			NOV 2018	2018	Objective: To determine the musculoskeletal risk factors for injury amongst professional, domestic cricket players. Design: Longitudinal cohort study. Setting: Medical suites associated with the respective cricket franchises. Participants: Professional, domestic cricket players (n = 97). Main outcome measures: A pre-participatory musculoskeletal screening battery consisting of 21 tests including flexibility, neural tension, stability, strength, balance and pain provocation tests at the start of the cricket season. Non-contact, low back and lower limb (lower quarter) injuries were monitored throughout the season. Binary logistic regression and receiver operating curves were used to determine predictive value of each test. Results: During the course of the cricket season, 38 of the 97 (39.2%) cricketers sustained a non-contact low back and/or lower limb injury. Increased hip internal rotation ROM on the dominant side (OR = 1.065; p = 0.036), no symptoms on active slump dominant side (OR = 0.289; p = 0.014), decreased combined elevation (OR = 0.934; p = 0.029), increased shoulder internal rotation ROM on the non dominant side (OR = 1.022; p = 0.035) and increased GIRD (glenohumeral internal rotation deficit) (OR = 1.026; p = 0.042) predicted in-season non-contact lower quarter injuries. Although statistically significant, none of these variables were strong predictors of injury as shown by the logistic regression models (accuracy in classification rate: 59.8-62.9%), the area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves (AUC<0.652) and the cut-off scores which revealed high sensitivity (68.4-86.8%), but low specificity (25.4-54.2%). Conclusion: Although only a few of the many tests included in the battery showed predictive validity, the value of screening procedures should not be underestimated due to other benefits such as building patient rapport, identification of pre-existing injuries, establishing clinical and functional baselines upon which individualised management programmes can be based. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Olivier, Benita] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Therapeut Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Gray, Janine] Cricket South Africa, Cape Town, South Africa; [Gray, Janine] Univ Cape Town, Exercise Sci Camp, Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Olivier, Benita] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Therapeut Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Johannesburg, South Africa								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100028	38	Article; Article		
J	Taddei, Ulisses T.; Matias, Alessandra B.; Ribeiro, Fernanda I. A.; Inoue, Rafael S.; Bus, Sicco A.; Sacco, Isabel C. N.								Effects of a therapeutic foot exercise program on injury incidence, foot functionality and biomechanics in long-distance runners: Feasibility study for a randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				216	226		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.015			NOV 2018	2018	Background: The goal was to examine the feasibility of a randomized controlled trial (RCT) on the effect of a therapeutic foot-ankle training program to prevent injury in long-distance runners. First, we evaluated (i) the access to participants and recruitment success; (ii) participants' satisfaction and adherence to the program; (iii) the effect of the training program to improve foot muscle strength and change foot biomechanics; and, second, we used the collected data for a post hoc sample size calculation. Methods/design: We randomized 31 healthy long-distance recreational runners to either an 8-week foot-ankle muscle strength-training program (intervention) or a stretching protocol (control). The recruitment rate was the number of eligible participants per week of recruitment; recruitment success, the ratio between scheduled baseline visits and initially eligible participants. Participant satisfaction was assessed by a questionnaire, and adherence to the training program was recorded in a Web-based software, both at the 8-week mark. Program effect was assessed by hallux and toe muscle strength using a pressure platform, foot muscle cross-sectional area using magnetic resonance imaging and foot kinematics during running using 3D gait analysis; assessments were done at baseline and after 8 and 16 weeks. A post hoc power analysis was performed on foot strength and the biomechanical data was collected. Results: In two weeks of recruitment, 112 initially eligible subjects were screened, 81 of whom were deemed eligible and 31 had a baseline study visit, giving a recruitment rate of 40.5 subjects/week and recruitment success of 28%. Participants' adherence was 97%, and satisfaction scored a median >3 out of 5 on a Likert scale on all questions. The cross-sectional area of the abductor hallucis (P = 0.040) and flexor digitorum brevis (P = 0.045) increased significantly at 8 weeks in the intervention group. The post hoc sample sizes for almost all the strength and biomechanical parameters were below those of the 112 subjects calculated as the original sample size for clinical outcome (running-related injury). Conclusion: Results show that this RCT is feasible, given an accessible study population that is willing to participate and that perceives the training program as positive and adheres to the program. The training program leads to several positive outcomes on muscle strength that justifies assessing clinical outcomes in this RCT. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Taddei, Ulisses T.; Matias, Alessandra B.; Ribeiro, Fernanda I. A.; Inoue, Rafael S.; Sacco, Isabel C. N.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Med, Phys Therapy Speech & Occupat Therapy Dept, Rua Cipotanea 51, BR-05360160 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Bus, Sicco A.] Univ Amsterdam, Dept Rehabil Med, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Sacco, Isabel C. N.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Med, Phys Therapy Speech & Occupat Therapy Dept, Rua Cipotanea 51, BR-05360160 Sao Paulo, Brazil								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100029	43	Article; Article		
J	Mansfield, Christine Becks; Selhorst, Mitchell								The effects of fear-avoidance beliefs on anterior knee pain and physical therapy visit count for young individuals: A retrospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				187	191		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.008			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: 1) Report levels of fear-avoidance beliefs in adolescents with anterior knee pain, 2) determine if fear-avoidance beliefs predict the number of therapy visits used to treat anterior knee pain, and 3) determine if initial fear-avoidance beliefs predict functional ability at discharge. Design: A retrospective review. Setting: Pediatric outpatient hospital. Participants: Patients ages 10-21 years with a diagnosis of anterior knee pain between 2009 and 2016. Main outcome measures: The predictor variable was initial fear avoidance beliefs physical activity sub scale (FABQ-PA) score and the outcome variable was total physical therapy visit count. Functional ability was assessed using the Anterior Knee Pain Scale (AKPS). Results: Adolescents with anterior knee pain reported moderate fear-avoidance beliefs with an average initial FABQ-PA score of 13.2 +/- 5. The FABQ-PA score did not significantly contribute to the visit count (p = 0.22, R-2=<0.01). Fear-avoidance beliefs were most correlated with initial score on the AKPS (r = -0.44). Conclusion: Fear-avoidance beliefs in adolescents are similar to that seen in adults. FABQ-PA scores did not impact the number of visits used to treat anterior knee pain or functional ability at discharge. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mansfield, Christine Becks; Selhorst, Mitchell] Nationwide Childrens Hosp, Sports & Orthoped Phys Therapy Dept, Columbus, OH USA; [Mansfield, Christine Becks] 6499 East Broad St,Suite 140, Columbus, OH 43213 USA								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100025	22	Article; Article		
J	De Blaiser, Cedric; De Ridder, Roel; Willems, Tine; Danneels, Lieven; Roosen, Philip								Reliability and validity of trunk flexor and trunk extensor strength measurements using handheld dynamometry in a healthy athletic population								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				180	186		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.005			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate reliability and validity of handheld dynamometry (HHD) strength tests to accurately measure isometric trunk flexion and extension strength. Design: Test-retest design and comparative analysis to investigate reliability and validity respectively. Setting: Isometric trunk flexion and extension strength, measured with a handheld dynamometer, was compared to isometric strength testing on a stationary isokinetic dynamometer. Different test positions were examined for the HHD measurements for trunk flexion and extension strength. Main outcome measures: Trunk muscle strength was calculated in newton metres (Nm) for both devices. Results of both devices were compared with Pearson correlations and agreement between both methods was explored with Bland-Altman plots. ICC values were calculated to assess HHD intra- and inter-tester reliability. Results: Reliability was good to excellent for all HHD tests (ICC=0.67-0.93). High correlations were found between the HHD tests and stationary dynamometer tests (r = 0.65-0.86). Bland -Altman plots showed agreement between both methods for the trunk flexion test, supported in 30 trunk flexion and for the trunk extension test in a prone position in 0 degrees trunk flexion. Conclusion: Handheld dynamometry is reliable and a clinically applicable valid method to evaluate isometric trunk flexion and extension strength. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[De Blaiser, Cedric; De Ridder, Roel; Willems, Tine; Danneels, Lieven; Roosen, Philip] Univ Ghent, Dept Rehabil Sci, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium; [De Blaiser, Cedric] Univ Ghent, Dept Rehabil Sci, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Campus UZ Ghent,Corneel Heymanslaan 10,B3, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium								49							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100024	35	Article; Article		
J	Nourbakhsh, Mohammad Reza; Bluestein, Ashley; Power, Richard; Underwood, Shaun; White, Leanna								The effects of pelvic alignment versus hip joint mobility on shoulder internal rotation deficit and torque production - A blinded randomized controlled study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				164	173		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.002			NOV 2018	2018			[Nourbakhsh, Mohammad Reza; Bluestein, Ashley; Power, Richard; Underwood, Shaun; White, Leanna] Univ N Carolina, 155 Sunset Dr, Dahlonega, GA 30597 USA; [Nourbakhsh, Mohammad Reza] Univ N Carolina, 155 Sunset Dr, Dahlonega, GA 30597 USA								2							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100022	49	Article; Article		
J	Pazit, Levinger; Jeremy, Dunn; Nancy, Bifera; Michael, Butson; George, Elias; Hill, Keith D.								Safety and feasibility of high speed resistance training with and without balance exercises for knee osteoarthritis: A pilot randomised controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				154	163		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.10.001			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: People with knee osteoarthritis (OA) have increased risk of falling with impaired ability to rapidly respond and generate lower limb muscle power to arrest a fall. We examined the feasibility and safety of a high speed resistance training program with and without balance exercises. Design: A randomised controlled pilot trial comparing pre and post 8 weeks intervention within 3 groups: control, high speed resistance training (HSRT), high speed resistance training plus balance exercises (HSRTB). Setting: Exercise rehabilitation clinic. Participants: Twenty-eight participants (67.8 +/- 6.5 yr) with knee OA. Main outcome measures: Feasibility and safety - adherence, drop-out rate, adverse events, pain during and post-exercise. Secondary measures - strength, mobility, functional tests, pain, executive function, satisfaction. Results: High adherence (99.3% HRST, 96.8% HRSTB), high satisfaction (92% HRST, 91% HRSTB), no dropouts or serious adverse events, and reduced overall pain were reported. Almost 1 in 5 sessions resulted in substantial pain incidents, although these typically settled quickly. Significant improvements occurred in function, strength and mobility following the 8 weeks for intervention groups. Conclusion: Both exercise groups were feasible and safe and improved physical function and strength. Further study is required to examine the optimal combination of high speed resistance and balance exercises and its effect on falls in people with knee OA. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Pazit, Levinger] Natl Ageing Res Inst, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Pazit, Levinger; Jeremy, Dunn; Nancy, Bifera; Michael, Butson; George, Elias] Victoria Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Hill, Keith D.] Curtin Univ, Sch Physiotherapy & Exercise Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Pazit, Levinger] Natl Ageing Res Inst Ltd, Royal Melbourne Hosp, POB 2127, Melbourne, Vic 3050, Australia								39							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100021	54	Article; Article		
J	Kamonseki, Danilo Harudy; Cedin, Luisa; Tavares-Preto, Jaqueline; Calixtre, Leticia Bojikian								Reliability, validity, and minimal detectable change of Side Hop Test in male children and adolescents								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				141	147		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.09.009			NOV 2018	2018	Objective: To determine the reliability, measurement error, and construct validity of the Side Hop Test in male children and adolescents. Design: Intra-and inter-rater reliability and construct validity study. Settings: Soccer club. Participants: Thirty-six asymptomatic boys, 10-16 years old. Main outcome: The intra and inter-rater reliability of the Side Hop Test were analyzed by Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC), Standard Error of Measurement (SEM), and Minimum Detectable Change (MDC). The construct validity of the Side Hop Test in reference to the Single Hop Test, the Standing Long Jump Test, the Shuttle Run, and isometric muscle strength was analyzed. Results: The intra-rater ICC of the Side Hop Test ranged from 0.63 to 0.67, SEM ranged from 1.2 to 2.5 s, and MDC ranged from 2.8 to 5.7 s. The inter-rater ICC ranged from 0.83 to 0.91, SEM ranged from 0.6 to 0.8 s, and MDC ranged from 1.4 to 1.9 s. The Side Hop Test was significantly correlated (p < 0.05) with the Single Hop Test (r = -0.49) and the Standing Long Jump (r = -0.47). Conclusion: The results support the use of the Side Hop Test to evaluate children and adolescents. The measurements showed good intra-rater and very good inter-rater reliability. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kamonseki, Danilo Harudy; Cedin, Luisa; Tavares-Preto, Jaqueline] Univ Paulista UNIP, Hlth Sci Inst, Sorocaba, SP, Brazil; [Kamonseki, Danilo Harudy; Calixtre, Leticia Bojikian] Univ Fed Sao Carlos UFSCar, Physiotherapy Dept, Rodovia Washington Luis,Km 235, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Kamonseki, Danilo Harudy] Univ Fed Sao Carlos UFSCar, Physiotherapy Dept, Rodovia Washington Luis,Km 235, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100019	55	Article; Article		
J	Basas, Angel; Cook, Jill; Gomez, Miguel A.; Rafael, Manuel A.; Ramirez, Christophe; Medeiros, Brendan; Lorenzo, Alberto								Effects of a strength protocol combined with electrical stimulation on patellar tendinopathy: 42 months retrospective follow-up on 6 high-level jumping athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				105	112		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.09.005			NOV 2018	2018	Study design: A retrospective study. Introduction: Patellar tendinopathy (PT) or jumper's knee OK) in elite athletes is a challenging condition for sports medicine professionals. This study analyzes the development of a protocol using eccentric, isometric, concentric exercises, and electrostimulation to treat elite athletes suffering from JK. The semiannual strength protocol was completed during a total of 36 months by six high-level jumping athletes with chronic painful JK. Pain during patellar tendon loading activity was evaluated on a visual analogue pain scale (VAS). Upon protocol completion, promising clinical results were evidenced by significant pain reduction during tendon loading activity. Material and methods: Six high level jumping athletes with chronic painful JK completed a semiannual strength program using eccentric, isometric, concentric and electrical stimulation exercises. The protocol was done 12 weeks in the winter pre-season and 10 weeks in the summer pre-season, for altogether 36 months, with an interruption of the protocol at 24 months for 6 months. Pain during patellar tendon loading activity was evaluated on a visual analogue pain scale (VAS), before the first session and then every 6 months, coinciding with the competitive phase, the time of maximum pain. Results: There was a significant (p < 0.01) decrease in the VAS from start to the 18, 24 and 48 months follow-ups. Conclusions: In a small group of high level jumping athletes with chronic painful JK, a strength protocol combined with electrical stimulation showed promising clinical results with significant pain reduction during tendon loading activity. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Basas, Angel; Rafael, Manuel A.; Ramirez, Christophe] Royal Spanish Athlet Federat Med Dept, Madrid, Spain; [Cook, Jill] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Res Ctr, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Gomez, Miguel A.; Lorenzo, Alberto] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Medeiros, Brendan] Univ Complutense Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [Basas, Angel] Royal Spanish Athlet Federat Med Dept, Madrid, Spain								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100014	39	Article; Article		
J	Awatani, Takenori; Enoki, Taisuke; Morikita, Ikuhiro								Inter-rater reliability and validity of angle measurements using smartphone applications for weight-bearing ankle dorsiflexion range of motion measurements								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				113	120		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.09.002			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: The purpose of this study was to examine the inter-rater reliability, validity, and error of angle measurements for ankle dorsiflexion range of motion while in the weight-bearing position using a smartphone application. Design: Reliability and validity study. Setting: Measurement positions were performed by one experienced examiner. Participants: Eighteen volunteers participated in the study. Three examiners (examiner 1 and examiner 2 had completed the course to become qualified certified athletic trainers and examiner 3 did not belong to the course) performed smartphone application measurements. Main outcome measures: Ankle dorsiflexion range of motion was measured in the lunge position. Radiographic measurements were performed using a bony landmark. The markerless method for application measurements was used, using a body part as a landmark. Results: Using the markerless method for application measurements, the intra-class correlation coefficients were 0.945. Using Pearson's correlation coefficient and intra-class correlation coefficients to compare the radiographic measurements and markerless method for application measurements, three examiners showed very high correlation (r > 0.9) and almost perfect (>0.81) intra-class correlation coefficient. Error values were less than 5 degrees according to examiner 1 and examiner 2. Conclusion: Smartphone application measurements using the markerless method of ankle dorsiflexion range of motion exhibited inter-rater reliability and high validity. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Awatani, Takenori] Kyushu Kyoritsu Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Yahatanishi Ku, 1-8 Jiyuugaoka, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka 8078585, Japan; [Awatani, Takenori; Morikita, Ikuhiro] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Grad Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, 1-1 Asashirodai, Kumatori, Osaka 5900496, Japan; [Enoki, Taisuke] Osaka Kyoiku Univ, Fac Educ, 4-698-1 Asahigaoka, Kashiwara, Osaka 5828582, Japan; [Morikita, Ikuhiro] Osaka Univ Hlth & Sport Sci, Fac Phys Educ, 1-1 Asashirodai, Kumatori, Osaka 5900496, Japan; [Awatani, Takenori] Kyushu Kyoritsu Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Yahatanishi Ku, 1-8 Jiyuugaoka, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka 8078585, Japan								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100015	35	Article; Article		
J	Lepley, Lindsey K.; Grooms, Dustin R.; Burland, Julie P.; Davi, Steven M.; Mosher, Jennifer L.; Cormier, Marc L.; Lepley, Adam S.								Eccentric cross-exercise after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: Novel case series to enhance neuroplasticity								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				55	65		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.08.010			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: Substantial changes in neural function are historically present after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR), and are not rectified with traditional rehabilitation. Cross-exercise is a potential means to enhance neural excitability and improve recovery after ACLR. Hence our purpose, was to detail changes in brain activation, neural excitability and patient-reported outcomes in a cohort that completed an 8-week quadriceps-focused eccentric cross-exercise training program immediately following ACLR. Design: Case series. Setting: University. Particpants: Five patients participated in an 8-week (24-session) eccentric cross-exercise intervention after ACLR. Main outcome measures: Brain activation, neural activity and patient-reported outcomes were evaluated within 2 weeks post-ACLR and again at 10-weeks post-ACLR after the intervention. Each cross-exercise session consisted of 4 sets of 10 isokinetic eccentric contractions at 60 deg/sec with the noninvolved limb. Results: Following the intervention, patients demonstrated a facilitated spinal reflexive and muscle activity response from the motor cortex during a time when these measures are known to be depressed. Patients also demonstrated a reduce dependence on frontal cortex activity to generate quadriceps contractions. Further patients reported significant reductions in pain and symptoms and greater knee function. Conclusions: Eccentric cross-exercise after ACLR helps to facilitate positive adaptations in neural function and patient reported outcomes. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Lepley, Lindsey K.; Burland, Julie P.; Davi, Steven M.; Mosher, Jennifer L.; Lepley, Adam S.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Lepley, Lindsey K.; Lepley, Adam S.] Univ Connecticut, Ctr Hlth, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Farmington, CT USA; [Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Ohio Musculoskeletal & Neurol Inst, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Grooms, Dustin R.] Ohio Univ, Sch Appl Hlth Sci & Wellness, Div Athlet Training, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Cormier, Marc L.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Promot, Lexington, KY USA; [Lepley, Lindsey K.] 2095 Hillside Rd Unit 1110, Storrs, CT 06268 USA								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100009	68	Article; Article		
J	Pogetti, Livia Silveira; Nakagawa, Theresa Helissa; Contecote, Giovanna Prado; Camargo, Paula Rezende								Core stability, shoulder peak torque and function in throwing athletes with and without shoulder pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				36	42		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.08.008			NOV 2018	2018	Objective: This study compared core stability, shoulder isokinetic peak torque and shoulder function in throwers with and without shoulder pain. Design: Cross-sectional study. Settings: Throwing athletes. Participants: Thirty healthy athletes and 21 with shoulder pain were included. Main outcome measures: Endurance time of the trunk, the modified star excursion balance test, isokinetic peak torque of internal and external rotation of the shoulder, questionnaires, level of satisfaction with the throwing arm and active range of motion. Results: The symptomatic athletes presented with shorter endurance time for the trunk lateral flexors (P < .05), and decreased reach distance for both limbs in the posteromedial direction (P < .05) and for takeoff limb in the posterolateral direction (P = .04), and smaller composite score for both limbs (P < .05) during star excursion balance test as compared to the healthy ones. No significant differences between groups were found for peak torque of internal and external rotation of the shoulder. Athletes with shoulder pain demonstrated more shoulder disability and a lower level of satisfaction with the throwing arm (P = .000). Range of motion was not different between groups for shoulder internal and external rotation. Conclusion: Throwing athletes with shoulder pain have lower core stability and shoulder function compared to healthy athletes. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Pogetti, Livia Silveira; Contecote, Giovanna Prado; Camargo, Paula Rezende] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Phys Therapy Dept, Lab Anal & Intervent Shoulder Complex, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Nakagawa, Theresa Helissa] Inst Leonidas & Maria Deane Fiocruz Amazonia, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Camargo, Paula Rezende] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Fisioterapia, Rodovia Washington Luis,Km 235, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil								31							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100006	54	Article; Article		
J	O'Brien, James; Santner, Emanuel; Finch, Caroline F.								The inter-tester reliability of the squeeze and bent-knee-fall-out tests in elite academy football players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				8	13		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.08.004			NOV 2018	2018	Objectives: To evaluate the inter-tester reliability of two common tests for assessing hip and groin injuries, using a protocol closely reflecting normal clinical conditions. Design: Same-session, single-trial, inter-tester reliability study. Setting: Elite European football academy. Participants: Two testers and fifty-eight football players aged 14-21 years. Main outcome measures: Inter-tester reliability of the squeeze (in approximately 45 degrees hip flexion) and bent-knee-fall-out (BKFO) tests, evaluated with intraclass correlation coefficients (two-way mixed, single measure) and minimal detectable change. Results: Both tests demonstrated excellent inter-tester reliability. The intraclass correlation coefficients were 0.92 (95% CI: 0.87-0.95) for the squeeze test, 0.91 (95% CI: 0.67-0.96) for the BKFO test on the right side and 0.92 (95% CI 0.87-0.95) for BKFO on the left side. The minimal detectable changes were 7.21 mmHg for the squeeze test, 0.95 cm and 0.75 cm for BKFO (right) and BKFO (left) respectively. Conclusion: The squeeze and the BKFO tests demonstrated excellent inter-tester reliability in elite academy football players, using a protocol reflective of normal clinical conditions. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[O'Brien, James; Santner, Emanuel] Red Bull Football Acad, Rechte Saalachzeile 58, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria; [O'Brien, James] Federat Univ Australia, Ballarat, Vic 3353, Australia; [Finch, Caroline F.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, 270 Joondalup Dr, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; [O'Brien, James] Red Bull Football Acad, Rechte Saalachzeile 58, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100002	30	Article; Article		
J	Kunugi, Shun; Masunari, Akihiko; Koumura, Takashi; Fujimoto, Akihisa; Yoshida, Naruto; Miyakawa, Shumpei								Altered lower limb kinematics and muscle activities in soccer players with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				28	35		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.08.003			NOV 2018	2018	Objective: To examine the lower limb kinematics and muscle activities in diagonal single-leg rebound jump in soccer players with chronic ankle instability (CAI). Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Thirty male collegiate soccer players participated: 15 with CAI were compared with 15 without CAI, matched by physical description. Intervention(s): In the diagonal single-leg rebound jump, participants stood on one leg on a 30-cm high box, hopped down diagonally (45) onto a force plate, and jumped vertically as high as possible with hands on their hips. Main outcome measures: Hip, knee, and ankle kinematics were acquired using a motion capture system. The activity of the gluteus medius, hip adductor, and lower leg muscles was recorded using electromyography. Jump performance was calculated using a force plate. Results: The CAI group had (i) decreased hip adduction, knee flexion, external rotation, and dorsiflexion angle; (ii) reduced hip adductor and peroneus muscle activations; and (iii) reduced jump height and short flight time. Conclusions: Male collegiate soccer players with CAI showed altered kinematics and muscle activities during a diagonal single-leg rebound jump; this may adversely affect rebound jump performance. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kunugi, Shun; Koumura, Takashi; Miyakawa, Shumpei] Univ Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Masunari, Akihiko] Kagoshima United Football Club, Kagoshima, Japan; [Fujimoto, Akihisa] Tsukuba Football Club, Ibaraki, Japan; [Yoshida, Naruto] Teikyo Heisei Univ, Tokyo, Japan; [Kunugi, Shun] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058574, Japan								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100005	34	Article; Article		
J	Torp, Danielle M.; Donovan, Luke; Gribble, Phillip A.; Thomas, Abbey C.; Bazett-Jones, David M.; Beard, Megan Q.								No baseline strength differences between female recreational runners who developed an injury and injury free runners during a 16-week formalized training program								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.08.001			NOV 2018	2018	Objective: To identify whether baseline differences in hip and knee isometric strength exist among female runners who sustained a running related injury (RRI) and those that remained injury-free during a 16-week formalized training program. Design: Prospective Cohort. Setting: Laboratory Setting. Participants: 54 healthy female recreational runners enrolled in a formalized training program for half or full marathon. At the conclusion of the program, 50 female runners (age: 39.1 +/- 9.4 years; height: 165.3 +/- 7.4 cm; mass: 64.8 +/- 11.9 kg) were included in analysis. Main outcome measures: Peak isometric torque of knee flexion and extension, hip flexion and extension, and hip abduction and external rotation were compared between runners who sustained an RRI and injury-free (INJF) runners. Results: 15 of the 50 participants developed an RRI during the observational period, no between groups differences existed for any demographic variable. Hip and knee isometric strength was not different prior to the start of a 16-week formalized training program between runners who sustained an RRI and those that remained injury-free. Conclusions: Hip and knee weakness does not appear to be a baseline characteristic among female recreational runners who sustained an RRI or remained uninjured while training for a half or full marathon. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Torp, Danielle M.; Donovan, Luke; Thomas, Abbey C.] Univ N Carolina, Charlotte, NC USA; [Gribble, Phillip A.] Univ Kentucky, Lexington, KY USA; [Bazett-Jones, David M.] Univ Toledo, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Beard, Megan Q.] Capital Univ, Columbus, OH USA; [Torp, Danielle M.] Dept Kinesiol, 9201 Univ City Blvd,Belk 230, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100001	51	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Katy; Hebron, Clair								The immediate effects of serving on shoulder rotational range of motion in tennis players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				34				14	20		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.08.007			NOV 2018	2018	Objective: This study aimed to investigate the immediate effects of serving on shoulder rotational range of motion (ROM) in tennis players by comparing to groundstrokes. Design: Same-subject, randomised, crossover study. Setting: Indoor hard courts. Participants: Eighteen male and 12 female professional and university level tennis players. Main outcome measures: Passive glenohumeral internal and external rotation ROM measurements, using a digital inclinometer, were undertaken at baseline and immediately following serving and groundstroke tasks on both dominant and non-dominant shoulders. Total rotation was calculated as the sum of internal and external rotation. Results: On the dominant and non-dominant shoulders there was no significant interaction effect between the factors of tennis task (serving and groundstrokes) and time (pre and post) (p = <0.05). Indicating that change in rotational ROM was not specific to tennis task. On the dominant shoulder there was a significant main effect of time (p = 0.007), with internal, external and total rotational ROM decreasing irrespective of tennis task. Conclusion: Both tennis tasks resulted in immediate significant reductions in shoulder rotational ROM on the dominant shoulder but not the non-dominant shoulder of professional and university tennis players. There was no significant difference between serving and groundstroke tasks. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Williams, Katy] Univ Bath, Dept Sports Dev & Recreat, Sports Training Village, Claverton Down Rd, Bath BA2 7AY, Somerset, England; [Hebron, Clair] Univ Brighton, Sch Hlth Sci, Aldro Bldg,49 Darley Rd, Eastbourne BN20 7UR, E Sussex, England; [Williams, Katy] Univ Bath, Dept Sports Dev & Recreat, Sports Training Village, Claverton Down Rd, Bath BA2 7AY, Somerset, England								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452940100003	28	Article; Article		
J	Brechbuhl, Cyril; Schmitt, Laurent; Millet, Gregoire P.; Brocherie, Franck								Shock microcycle of repeated-sprint training in hypoxia and tennis performance: Case study in a rookie professional player								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			723	728		10.1177/1747954118783586			OCT 2018	2018	The aim of this case study was to investigate the effects of a shock microcycle of repeated-sprint training in hypoxia (RSH) on physical fitness and tennis performance. One rookie professional tennis player performed repeated-sprint ability (RSA) and Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery level 2 (YYIR2) tests before and after (+3 days and +21 days) six sessions of RSH (4 sets of 5x approximate to 6s repeated-shuttle sprint interspersed by approximate to 24s of passive recovery) practiced during a 14-day in-season period. Tennis performance was subjectively measured from match results and Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) points obtained during four professional tournaments played before and after intervention. While no changes were found at +3 days post-RSH, improvements in physical fitness (single sprint time (-4.5%), RSA total time (-3.1%) and sprint decrement (-16.7%), as well as YYIR2 total distance covered (+21.4%)) were observable at +21 days post-RSH. Tennis performance obtained during the tournaments was better after intervention. From pre to post-RSH, the decreases in opponents' ATP ranking during matches won (1109 +/- 334 points vs. 818 +/- 212 points) and lost (499 +/- 68 points vs. 256 +/- 58 points) revealed a stronger opposition. Consequently, a three-fold increase (from 4 to 12 ATP points gained from pre to post-RSH) in participant's ATP ranking was recorded. In summary, a 14-day in-season shock microcycle including six sessions of repeated-sprint training in hypoxia revealed interesting effects in specific fitness and tennis performance in a rookie professional tennis player.		[Brechbuhl, Cyril] French Tennis Federat, Natl Tech Direct, Paris, France; [Brechbuhl, Cyril; Schmitt, Laurent; Millet, Gregoire P.] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Fac Biol & Med, ISSUL, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Schmitt, Laurent] Natl Ctr Nord Ski, Dept Res & Performance, Premanon, France; [Brocherie, Franck] French Inst Sport INSEP, Res Unit, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, EA 7370, 11 Ave Tremblay, Paris, France; [Brocherie, Franck] French Inst Sport INSEP, Res Unit, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, EA 7370, 11 Ave Tremblay, Paris, France								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400013	22	Article; Article		
J	Ellison, P. H.; Kearney, P. E.; Sparks, S. A.; Murphy, P. N.; Marchant, D. C.								Further evidence against eye-hand coordination as a general ability								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			687	693		10.1177/1747954117747132			OCT 2018	2018	A number of companies are marketing general eye-hand coordination training devices, which are purported to enhance performance on the device and in a sporting domain. An act comprising eye-hand coordination involves the complex combination of a number of distinct functions, and an investigation of what tasks share this common factor has not been completed. There is also a lack of evidence investigating the interrelationship between different tests to assess eye-hand coordination using these devices. A number of different eye-hand coordination abilities, rather than one common factor, could potentially underpin any range of tasks involving eye-hand coordination and visual stimuli. Therefore, the present study investigated the theoretical assumption upon which such eye-hand coordination training devices are based, that is, whether eye-hand coordination is a general ability. Eighty-seven currently active sportspeople (age: 18.6 +/- 0.9 years; 58 males and 29 females) completed four tests of eye-hand coordination: three laboratory tasks (the Sports Vision Traine (TM); Batak Pro (TM); and Graded Pegboard) and a field task (wall catch test). Intercorrelations between the tasks ranged from weak to strong, but the percentage of shared variance was typically low. Overall, the results do not support the existence of a common eye-hand coordination ability underpinning the performance on general eye-hand coordination training devices. Consequently, coaches and sport scientists should be aware that training on general eye-hand coordination training devices is unlikely to transfer to sporting performances. Instead, practitioners are encouraged to explore sport-specific assessment and training of eye-hand coordination.		[Ellison, P. H.; Sparks, S. A.; Marchant, D. C.] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & PA, Ormskirk L39 4QP, England; [Kearney, P. E.] Univ Chichester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Chichester, England; [Murphy, P. N.] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Psychol, Ormskirk, England; [Ellison, P. H.] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & PA, Ormskirk L39 4QP, England								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400009	31	Article; Article		
J	Campo, Mickael; Martinent, Guillaume; Pellet, Julien; Boulanger, Jeremie; Louvet, Benoit; Nicolas, Michel								Emotion-performance relationships in team sport: The role of personal and social identities								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			629	635		10.1177/1747954118785256			OCT 2018	2018	In the field of emotion-performance relationship in achievement situations, the social dimensions of emotions have been understudied. Thus, recent advances highlighted the need to explore identity processes to know whether group belonging may influence individuals' emotions and performance when they are involved in a task-group. The current study introduced an innovative approach to continuously capture the variability of emotions (pleasant and unpleasant), identity levels (personal and social) and performances (individual and collective) experienced during volleyball games. Six elite players (M = 20.14 years; SD = 1.25) volunteered to participate in this research. For the purpose of this study, a program based on the Mouse Paradigm methodological approach was elaborated. A total of 9461 momentary assessments (M = 1576.83 +/- 94.38 per participant) was gathered for each of the aforementioned variables. Results of hierarchical linear modeling analyses showed a partial independence between social and personal identity, as well as an effect of identity levels on unpleasant emotions. Results also highlighted that neither identity levels nor emotions influenced individual performances. Taken together, these results were discussed in terms of theoretical and methodological advances that allow to deepen the understanding of emotions-performance relationships in the context of team-sports.		[Campo, Mickael; Pellet, Julien; Nicolas, Michel] Univ Bourgogne Franche Comte, Lab Psy DREPI, Dijon, France; [Martinent, Guillaume] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lab Vulnerabil & Innovat Sport, Villeurbanne, France; [Boulanger, Jeremie] Univ Lille 1, SIGMA Team, Lab CRIStAL, Interdisciplinary Res Inst, Lille, France; [Louvet, Benoit] Univ Rouen Normandie, Lab CETAPS, Mont St Aignan, France; [Campo, Mickael] UFR STAPS, EA 7458, Psy DREPI, BP 27 877, F-21078 Dijon, France								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400002	37	Article; Article		
J	Emmonds, S.; Till, K.; Redgrave, J.; Murray, E.; Turner, L.; Robinson, C.; Jones, B.								Influence of age on the anthropometric and performance characteristics of high-level youth female soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			779	786		10.1177/1747954118757437			OCT 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the anthropometric and performance characteristics of high-level youth female soccer players by annual-age category (Under 10 (U10)-U16). Data were collected from 157 female soccer players (U16, n=46; U14, n=43; U12, n=38; U10, n=30), recruited from three high-level female soccer academies in England. Players completed assessments of anthropometry (height and body mass), isometric mid-thigh pull strength, jump height, aerobic capacity, change of direction (505-left/right) and speed (10 and 30m). Magnitude based-inferences were used to assess for practical significance between consecutive age groups. Height (very likely-most likely), body mass (very likely-most likely), absolute strength (most likely), jump height (likely-very likely) and distance on the YYIRL1 (possibly-most likely) were greater in older players. Both speed and change of direction time were most likely to very likely lower in older players. However, only most likely trivial-possibly trivial differences were observed in relative strength between age groups. Findings suggest that physical characteristics except for relative strength differentiate by age categories. These findings provide comparative data and target reference data for such populations and can be used by coaches and practitioners for player development purposes. Practitioners should be aware that relative strength does not differ between age categories in high-level youth female soccer players.		[Emmonds, S.; Till, K.; Redgrave, J.; Murray, E.; Jones, B.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Hlth, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Murray, E.] Leeds United Reg Talent Ctr, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Turner, L.] Manchester United Reg Talent Ctr, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Robinson, C.] Sunderland Reg Talent Ctr, Sunderland, England; [Emmonds, S.] Leeds Beckett Univ, 107A Cavendish Hall,Headingly Campus, Leeds LS16 5LF, W Yorkshire, England								30							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400020	36	Article; Article		
J	Keller, Brad S.; Raynor, Annette J.; Bruce, Lyndell; Iredale, Fiona								Physical and anthropometrical attributes of Australian youth soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			787	793		10.1177/1747954117752904			OCT 2018	2018	Objectives To determine whether Australian youth soccer players of varying levels could be distinguished based on their anthropometrical and physical attributes. Design A cross-sectional observational design was used, involving six anthropometrical and physical tests for each player. Methods Participants represented three youth levels of competition, namely national elite (n=18), state elite (n=22) and sub-elite (n=22). Anthropometrical and physical tests included standing height; body mass; 5, 10, 30m sprint and 20m flying start' sprint; zig-zag agility test; vertical jump and Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery test level 1. A multiple analysis of variance for the main effect of cohort, with a follow-up ANOVA and Tukey's Honest Significant Difference were used to discern which attributes differed between each cohort. Receiver operating characteristic curves were calculated, providing cut-off values between cohorts. Results The national elite cohort was significantly taller than the state elite cohort (ES=0.94) and faster than the sub-elite athletes across 30m (ES=0.79) and 20m with a flying start (ES=0.77) (P<0.05). The national elite cohort had a significantly higher level of intermittent endurance, compared to the state elite athletes who also performed better than the sub-elite cohort. The discrepancy between groups in the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery test level 1 was exemplified by the receiver operating characteristic with 94.1% of national elite players running further than 1980m, while 95.7% of state elite and 100% of sub-elite players failed to reach this distance (ES=0.88-1.77). Conclusions It is evident that anthropometrical and physical attributes differ between youth cohorts, particularly intermittent endurance. It is important to use this knowledge to enhance the current processes used to identify future talent for success in Australian soccer.		[Keller, Brad S.; Raynor, Annette J.; Iredale, Fiona] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Bruce, Lyndell] Deakin Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, Burwood, Vic, Australia; [Keller, Brad S.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400021	32	Article; Article		
J	Brownlee, Thomas E.; O'Boyle, Andy; Morgans, Ryland; Morton, James P.; Erskine, Robert M.; Drust, Barry								Training duration may not be a predisposing factor in potential maladaptations in talent development programmes that promote early specialisation in elite youth soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			674	678		10.1177/1747954117752127			OCT 2018	2018	Purpose: To determine whether training duration is a predisposing factor in potential maladaptations in talent development programmes that promote early specialisation in elite youth soccer. Methods: Training times and type of 184 elite soccer players, from the under-9 to under-21 age groups (age 9.4 to 18.4 yrs; stature 1.38 to 1.82 m; body mass 32.2 to 76.2 kg) were recorded. Results: Total training time progressively increased between the under-9 (268 +/- 25 min/week) and under-14 (477 +/- 19 min/week) groups with the majority of training time (96.5 +/- 3.9%) consisting of soccer training and matches. Total training time then subsequently reduced from under-14 to under-15 (266 +/- 77 min/week) groups, with no differences in training time between under-15 and under-21. Only under-15 to under-21 players completed resistance training; this inclusion coincided with a reduction in soccer training and match play when compared to time spent in these activities for younger groups (73.8 +/- 3.2% of total training). Conclusion: Data suggest that although the majority of training is focused on technical development, the training duration as a whole is unlikely to contribute to potential maladaptations in talent development programmes in elite youth soccer.		[Brownlee, Thomas E.; O'Boyle, Andy; Morton, James P.; Erskine, Robert M.; Drust, Barry] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Tom Reilly Bldg,Byrom St Campus, Liverpool L3 3AF, Merseyside, England; [Morgans, Ryland] Football Assoc Wales, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Erskine, Robert M.] UCL, ISEH, London, England; [Brownlee, Thomas E.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Tom Reilly Bldg,Byrom St Campus, Liverpool L3 3AF, Merseyside, England								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400007	18	Article; Article		
J	Burnie, Louise; Barratt, Paul; Davids, Keith; Stone, Joseph; Worsfold, Paul; Wheat, Jon								Coaches' philosophies on the transfer of strength training to elite sports performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			729	736		10.1177/1747954117747131			OCT 2018	2018	The objective of the study was to explore coaches' philosophies regarding strength training (repetitive muscle actions against high loads) and the transfer of strength training to sports performance. Thirteen world class coaches and athletes from track cycling, Bicycle Moto-Cross (BMX), sprint kayaking, rowing and athletics sprinting were interviewed using an open-ended, semi-structured approach. Participants were asked about their coaching philosophies, design of athlete training programmes, strength training and its transfer to sports performance. A thematic analysis was conducted. Data trustworthiness was enhanced by methods of member checking and analyst triangulation. Coaches believed that task-specific strength is essential for sports performance. They reported that non-specific strength training (traditional' gym-based strength exercises that are not specific to a sport movement) is important for increasing athletes' muscle size and strength. This is typically used in conjunction with resisted sport movement training (for example, increased resistance running, pedalling or rowing), believed to achieve an effective transfer of enhanced muscle strength to sports performance. Coaches described the transfer process as complex, with factors associated with fatigue and coordination having particular significance. The importance that coaches place on coordination is supported by a theoretical model that demonstrates increases in muscle strength from strength training may need to be accompanied with a change in inter-muscular coordination to improve sport performance. The idea that each athlete needs to adapt intermuscular coordination in response to a change in his/her unique set of organism constraints' (e.g. muscle strength) is well described by the theory of ecological dynamics and Newell's model of constraints.		[Burnie, Louise; Davids, Keith; Wheat, Jon] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sports Engn Res, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Burnie, Louise; Barratt, Paul; Worsfold, Paul] Manchester Inst Hlth & Performance, English Inst Sport, Biomech, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Stone, Joseph] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Acad Sport & Phys Act, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Worsfold, Paul] Univ Chester, Sports & Exercise Sci, Chester, Cheshire, England; [Wheat, Jon] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Collegiate Crescent, Ctr Sports Engn Res, Sheffield S10 2BP, S Yorkshire, England								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400014	33	Article; Article		
J	Wendling, Elodie; Flaherty, Meredith; Sagas, Michael; Kaplanidou, Kyriaki								Youth athletes' sustained involvement in elite sport: An exploratory examination of elements affecting their athletic participation								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	5			658	673		10.1177/1747954118757436			OCT 2018	2018	In this exploratory study, we first intended to identify the underlying structure of components affecting the sport participation of 1258 elite youth athletes from the USA through a principal component analysis of 23 items related to motives and barriers to participation and created for this study. A six-component solution was proposed, including college and professional aspirations and competence beliefs, coach and peer relationships, pressures from parents and coach, intrinsic and self-determined extrinsic motivation, external barriers, and non-self-determined extrinsic motivation. Noteworthy differences by age, gender, and race on those retained components were also reported. Lastly, results of hierarchical regression analyses indicated that 28% of the variance in sport enjoyment was explained by all retained components. Given the rapid growth of travel teams, this study provides a timely cross-sectional and multisport assessment of the state of elite youth sport in the USA. In consideration of optimistic outcomes observed in this study compared to alarming attrition trends commonly found in the elite youth sport environment, this study may serve as a reference as to the elements that influence sustained participation that is indispensable in today's youth sport landscape. Results also provided important theoretical contributions with respect to motivational processes underlying elite sport participation. Practical implications with regards to the influence of intrapersonal, interpersonal, and barrier elements on elite sport participation are also presented.		[Wendling, Elodie; Flaherty, Meredith; Sagas, Michael; Kaplanidou, Kyriaki] Univ Florida, Coll Hlth & Human Performance, Dept Tourism Recreat & Sport Management, POB 118208, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Wendling, Elodie] Univ Florida, Coll Hlth & Human Performance, Dept Tourism Recreat & Sport Management, POB 118208, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000446857400006	64	Article; Article		
J	Peterson, David D.								Periodic Fitness Testing: Not Just for Athletes Anymore								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	5			60	76		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000393			OCT 2018	2018	Strength and conditioning professionals, personal trainers, and competitive athletes have long used periodic fitness testing as an effective training practice. This concept is rarely used, however, by the novice exerciser or general public. In addition, most of the current fitness tests assess only a few of the different components of fitness. Unlike current fitness tests, the proposed assessment evaluates 10 of the different components of fitness, thereby providing users with a more complete overview of their current fitness. In addition, if users are found deficient in a particular component(s) of fitness, the proposed assessment provides specific training recommendations for improvement.		[Peterson, David D.] Cedarville Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Allied Hlth, Cedarville, OH 45314 USA; [Peterson, David D.] Cedarville Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Allied Hlth, Cedarville, OH 45314 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000446264700006	51	Article; Article		
J	Gallo, Paul M.; Mendola, Nicole M.								Exercise Prescription Recommendations for Parkinson's Disease								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	5			126	133		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000415			OCT 2018	2018	Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with motor and nonmotor impairments that result in physical deconditioning, inability to perform activities of daily living, and reduced quality of life. This column will discuss exercise testing and prescription recommendations for persons with PD as a method to manage the disease and improve fitness.		[Gallo, Paul M.; Mendola, Nicole M.] Norwalk Community Coll, Exercise Sci & Wellness Dept, Norwalk, CT 06854 USA; [Gallo, Paul M.] Norwalk Community Coll, Exercise Sci & Wellness Dept, Norwalk, CT 06854 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000446264700011	31	Article; Article		
J	Hendricks, Sharief; Till, Kevin; Oliver, Jon L.; Johnston, Rich D.; Attwood, Matthew; Brown, James; Drake, David; MacLeod, Simon; Mellalieu, Stephen D.; Treu, Paul; Jones, Ben								Technical Skill Training Framework and Skill Load Measurements for the Rugby Union Tackle								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	5			44	59		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000400			OCT 2018	2018	Drawing from skill acquisition and development literature, we present a novel tackle skill training framework. The framework outlines the training purpose (technique proficiency, technique capacity, skill proficiency, and skill capacity), skill workload measurements (available information, task difficulty, rating of perceived challenge, and skill load), as well as the training conditions and coaching style for the tackle in rugby union. Using this framework and skill load measurements, we propose a preseason tackle training plan. this tackle skill framework and skill load measurements serve as potential preventive measures for tackle injury risk while improving players' tackle performance. For a video abstract of this article, see supplemental digital content 1 (see video, http://linksiww.com/scj/a243).		[Hendricks, Sharief; Brown, James] Univ Cape Town, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief; Till, Kevin; Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin; Jones, Ben] Yorkshire Carnegie Rugby Union Football Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Oliver, Jon L.; Attwood, Matthew; Mellalieu, Stephen D.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport & Heath Sci, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Johnston, Rich D.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Johnston, Rich D.] Norths Devils Rugby Football League, Nundah, Qld, Australia; [Attwood, Matthew] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Rugby Union Football Club, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Brown, James] Stellenbosch Univ, Inst Sport & Exercise Med, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Brown, James] IOC, Res Ctr, Cape Town, South Africa; [Drake, David] Kingspan Stadium, Ulster Rugby, Belfast, Antrim, North Ireland; [MacLeod, Simon] Western Prov Rugby & Stormers, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin; Jones, Ben] Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								62							Sport Sciences	WOS:000446264700005	50	Article; Article		
J	Till, Kevin; Morris, Rhys; Emmonds, Stacey; Jones, Ben; Cobley, Stephen								Enhancing the Evaluation and Interpretation of Fitness Testing Data Within Youth Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	5			24	33		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000414			OCT 2018	2018	Fitness testing is common practice within youth athletes. However, the interpretation of fitness data often occurs within chronological annual-age categories, resulting in athletes being (dis)advantaged due to age or maturity discrepancies. instead, evaluating fitness performance against rolling averages may be more appropriate. This article presents a novel method for analyzing fitness testing data in youth athletes using z-scores according to rolling averages for both chronological age and maturity status. This analysis technique allows for the dual ability to interpret youth fitness performance according to age and maturation, enhancing accuracy of data interpretation for talent identification, development, and strength and conditioning programming.		[Till, Kevin; Morris, Rhys; Emmonds, Stacey; Jones, Ben] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin; Jones, Ben] Leeds Rhinos RLFC, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin; Jones, Ben] Yorkshire Carnegie RUFC, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben] Rugby Football League, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Cobley, Stephen] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci, Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Till, Kevin] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin] Leeds Rhinos RLFC, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Till, Kevin] Yorkshire Carnegie RUFC, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000446264700003	29	Article; Article		
J	Beaudin, Laura								Examining the Relationship Between Athletic Program Expenditure and Athletic Program Success Among NCAA Division I Institutions: A Dynamic Panel Data Approach								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	7			1016	1045		10.1177/1527002517702423			OCT 2018	2018	This study examines the impact of athletic expenditure on athletic performance among National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I institutions. A series of dynamic panel data models are estimated to explore differential impacts of expenditure throughout athletic programs. Results suggest that a dollar spent on women's sport programs may be more effective than a dollar spent on men's sport programs. Analysis is conducted at the aggregate, relative division, relative conference, and individual sport levels. Together, all analysis suggests that alternative distributions of athletic, financial resources could increase an institution's athletic success.		[Beaudin, Laura] Bryant Univ, Econ, Smithfield, RI USA; [Beaudin, Laura] Bryant Univ, 1150 Douglas Pike, Smithfield, RI 02917 USA								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000443428600006	31	Article; Article		
J	Mills, Brian M.; Fort, Rodney								Team-Level Time Series Analysis in MLB, the NBA, and the NHL: Attendance and Outcome Uncertainty								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	7			911	933		10.1177/1527002517690787			OCT 2018	2018	We extend the attendance break point literature to the team level, addressing structural change and season aggregated outcome uncertainty for franchises in three of the four North American major leagues. We compare the larger variation at the team level with past time series analysis of league-level annual aggregate attendance. We also note that there is at best mixed evidence of outcome uncertainty impacts on team-level attendance. We discuss the implications for these findings with respect to future research that attempts to comprehensively estimate the demand for attendance.		[Mills, Brian M.] Univ Florida, Dept Tourism Recreat & Sport Management, POB 118208, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Fort, Rodney] Univ Michigan, Dept Sport Management, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Mills, Brian M.] Univ Florida, Dept Tourism Recreat & Sport Management, POB 118208, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								19							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000443428600001	46	Article; Article		
J	Congdon-Hohman, Joshua M.; Lanning, Jonathan A.								Beyond Moneyball: Changing Compensation in MLB								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	7			1046	1061		10.1177/1527002517704019			OCT 2018	2018	This study examines the changes in player compensation in Major League Baseball during the last three decades. Specifically, we examine the extent to which recently documented changes in players' compensation structure based on certain types of productivity fits in with the longer term trends in compensation and identify the value of specific output activities in different time periods. We examine free-agent contracts in 3-year periods across three decades and find significant changes to how players' past performances are rewarded in free agency beyond the change in those to on-base percentage seen in the mid-2000s. We find evidence that the compensation strategies of baseball teams increased the rewards to power statistics beyond home runs in the 1990s from a model that focused on successfully reaching base with a batted ball without a significant regard for the number of bases reached. Similarly, we confirm and expand upon the increased financial return to bases on balls in the late 2000s as found in previous research.		[Congdon-Hohman, Joshua M.] Coll Holy Cross, Dept Econ & Accounting, 1 Coll St, Worcester, MA 01610 USA; [Lanning, Jonathan A.] Consumer Financial Protect Bur, Washington, DC USA; [Congdon-Hohman, Joshua M.] Coll Holy Cross, Dept Econ & Accounting, 1 Coll St, Worcester, MA 01610 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000443428600007	17	Article; Article		
J	Artero, Isabel; Bandres, Eduardo								The Broadcasting Demand for the Spanish National Soccer Team								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	7			934	959		10.1177/1527002517690786			OCT 2018	2018	This article analyzes the broadcasting demand in Spain for the Spanish national soccer team. The variability in audience figures suggests supplementing the ordinary least squares estimation with quantile regressions to understand the effect of the explanatory variables across the conditioned distribution of television audiences. The results show that variables associated with the sporting relevance of each game and the reputation of the opponent are significant, while consumer habits have little influence and uncertainty of outcome is not significant. The different degrees of influence of the variables across all quantiles confirm the heterogeneous nature of demand.		[Artero, Isabel] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Business & Publ Management, Appl Econ, Huesca, Spain; [Bandres, Eduardo] Univ Zaragoza, Appl Econ, Zaragoza, Spain; [Artero, Isabel] Univ Zaragoza, Plaza Constituc 1, Huesca 22001, Spain								14							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000443428600002	25	Article; Article		
J	Goetsch, Andreas; Salzmann, Christian								The Role of Ex Post Audits in Doping Enforcement								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	7			960	976		10.1177/1527002517696959			OCT 2018	2018	We develop a theoretical model of ex post doping audits and analyze their effects on an athlete's doping decision. In our model, the doping agency can store doping samples and retest them at a later point. We show that there is a doping minimizing storage and retesting mix for the doping agency and that storing doping samples will reduce the athletes' doping intensity. Furthermore, there is a threshold for the agency's antidoping budget. If the budget exceeds this threshold, inefficiencies in the antidoping battle will occur and, depending on the agency's objective, the athletes' doping incentives may even increase.		[Goetsch, Andreas; Salzmann, Christian] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Management & Econ, Univ Str 150, D-44801 Bochum, Germany; [Salzmann, Christian] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Management & Econ, Univ Str 150, D-44801 Bochum, Germany								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000443428600003	15	Article; Article		
J	Bradbury, John Charles; Pitts, Joshua D.								Full Cost-of-Attendance Scholarships and College Choice: Evidence From NCAA Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	7			977	989		10.1177/1527002517696958			OCT 2018	2018	In 2015, the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I schools were permitted to cover the full cost of attendance as a part of athletic scholarships for the first time, which allowed schools to provide modest living stipends to its athletes. Differences in cost-of-attendance allotments across schools have the potential to affect the allocation of talent, with higher stipends attracting better student-athletes. Using recently published cost-of-attendance data, we estimate the impact of cost-of-attendance allowances on college football recruiting. Estimates reveal that cost-of-attendance scholarship allowances were positively associated with football recruiting quality immediately following their implementation, indicating that the modest differences in stipends swayed student-athletes' college choice.		[Bradbury, John Charles] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Econ Finance & Quantitat Anal, 560 Parliament Garden Way NW, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA; [Pitts, Joshua D.] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Sport Management, Kennesaw, GA USA; [Bradbury, John Charles] Kennesaw State Univ, Dept Econ Finance & Quantitat Anal, 560 Parliament Garden Way NW, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA								10							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000443428600004	19	Article; Article		
J	Berkowitz, Jason P.; Depken, Craig A., II; Gandar, John M.								The Conversion of Money Lines Into Win Probabilities: Reconciliations and Simplifications								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	7			990	1015		10.1177/1527002517696957			OCT 2018	2018	We contribute to the literature on money line betting markets by investigating the relationships between the various methods used to derive subjective win probabilities from money lines. We show that, although the seven methods described appear to be unique, they actually share many common assumptions and that, surprisingly, they reduce to three distinct estimates of bookmaker commission and subjective win probabilities. We also show that among the three distinct estimates, one is biased when money lines suggest a very heavy favorite in a particular sporting event. Thus, it is important to consider the assumptions for each method when deciding which to use in a particular context. Two empirical examples demonstrate how a market inefficiency, such as a favorite-longshot bias, should influence the choice of methodology.		[Berkowitz, Jason P.] St Johns Univ, Tobin Coll Business, Dept Econ & Finance, Queens, NY USA; [Depken, Craig A., II; Gandar, John M.] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Belk Coll Business, Dept Econ, 220 Friday Bldg, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA; [Gandar, John M.] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Belk Coll Business, Dept Finance, Charlotte, NC USA; [Depken, Craig A., II] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Belk Coll Business, Dept Econ, 220 Friday Bldg, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA								31							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000443428600005	31	Article; Article		
J	Miarka, Bianca; Brito, Ciro Jose; Amtmann, John; Cordova, Claudio; dal Bello, Fabio; Camey, Suzi								Suggestions for Judo Training with Pacing Strategy and Decision Making by Judo Championship Phases								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			219	232		10.1515/hukin-2017-0196			SEP 2018	2018	The present study aimed to compare pacing and decision making of athletes competing in judo, with particular attention paid to effort-pause ratios occurring in the championship phases of the Olympic Games and non-Olympic Games. The sample was composed of 53,403 sequential actions analyzed during 611 performances of the non-Olympic Games (eliminatory n = 330, quarterfinals n = 60, semi-final n = 88, repechage n = 21, third place playoff n = 26, and final n = 79) and 163 from the Olympic Games (eliminatory n = 71, quarterfinals n = 13, semi-final n = 26, repechage n = 20, third place playoff n = 24, and final n = 14). The analysis of effort-pause ratios included separating bouts into states of approach, gripping, attack, groundwork and pause, according to frequency and time. A Markov multi-state model and analysis of variance were applied (p <= 0.05). Approach time presented differences of the eliminatory Olympic Games (7.3 +/- 3.2 s) versus final non-Olympic Games (6.0 +/- 2.2s), and the third place playoff Olympic Games (8.1 +/- 2.3 s) versus semi-final (6.2 +/- 2.4 s) and third place playoff (5.9 +/- 2.1 s) of the non-Olympic Games, and the semi-final Olympic Games (8.6 +/- 2.3 s) versus eliminatory (6.5 +/- 2.3 s), quarter-finals (6.5 +/- 1.7 s), semi-final (6.2 +/- 2.4 s), repechage (6.2 +/- 2.2 s), third place playoff (5.9 +/- 2.1 s), and final (6.0 +/- 2.0 s) of the non-Olympic Games. Pause time presented differences of the semi-final Olympic Games (6.8 +/- 2.1 s) versus eliminatory (5.1 +/- 3.1 s). The present data suggest a focus on pacing strategy during championship phases, which mimic the requirements of judo combats.		[Miarka, Bianca] Univ Fed Pelotas, Phys Educ Sch, Pelotas, Brazil; [Miarka, Bianca; Brito, Ciro Jose] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Phys Educ Dept, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Amtmann, John] Montana Tech Univ Montana, Safety Hlth & Ind Hyg Dept, Butte, MT USA; [Cordova, Claudio] Univ Catolica Brasilia, Grad Program Phys Educ, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [dal Bello, Fabio] Univ Santo Tomas, Phys Act & Sports Sci Master Program, Santiago, Chile; [Camey, Suzi] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Stat Dept, Math Inst, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Miarka, Bianca] Univ Fed Pelotas, Phys Educ Sch, Av Eduardo Roberto Daher,567 Ctr, BR-06850040 Itapecerica Da Serra, SP, Brazil								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500020	34	Article; Article		
J	Campos, Bruno T.; Penna, Eduardo M.; Rodrigues, Joao Gs; Diniz, Mateus; Mendes, Thiago T.; Filho, Andre F. C.; Franchini, Emerson; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Prado, Luciano S.								Influence of Autonomic Control on the Specific Intermittent Performance of Judo Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			99	109		10.1515/hukin-2017-0186			SEP 2018	2018	Judo is a high-intensity intermittent combat sport which causes cardiac adaptations both morphologically and related to the autonomic nervous system (ANS). Therefore, this study aims to verify the correlation between heart rate variability (HRV) at rest with performance in the Special Judo Fitness Test (SJFT) and whether groups with different RR values at rest show different performance in the SJFT and during post-test recovery. Sixteen judo athletes with 7.2 +/- 3.9 years of training experience participated in the study. Before and after the SJFT execution HRV and lactate measurements were conducted. For HRV analysis, we used the mean interval RR, the standard deviation of the RR interval (SDNN), the root mean square of successive differences in RR intervals (RMSSD), the low frequency (LF) and high frequency (HF) in normalized and absolute units. The sample was split into two groups (low RR and high RR) to verify if this variable could differentiate between specific performance. For the SDNN, a significant and moderate correlation (r = 0.53) was found with the total number of throws and throws in the series A (r = 0.56) and B (r = 0.54) and for the RMSSD a correlation with throws during series B (r = 0.59) in the SJFT. However, the groups did not differ in performance and recovery. Therefore, HRV is related to intermittent judo performance; however, it cannot differentiate between judokas at different levels of performance.		[Campos, Bruno T.; Penna, Eduardo M.; Rodrigues, Joao Gs; Diniz, Mateus; Mendes, Thiago T.; Prado, Luciano S.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Penna, Eduardo M.] Univ Fed Para, Castanhal Campus, Belem, Para, Brazil; [Mendes, Thiago T.] Univ Fed Maranhao, Pinheiro Campus, Sao Luis, MA, Brazil; [Filho, Andre F. C.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Ctr Treinamento Esport, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Pescara, Italy; [Penna, Eduardo M.] Av Univ Jaderlandia, BR-68746360 Castanhal, PA, Brazil								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500010	37	Article; Article		
J	Ayarra, Ruben; Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo; Iturricastillo, Aitor; Castillo, Daniel; Yanci, Javier								Differences in Physical Performance According to the Competitive Level in Futsal Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			275	285		10.1515/hukin-2017-0201			SEP 2018	2018	The purpose of the present study was to describe performance in acceleration capacity, change of direction ability, vertical jump, horizontal jump, repeated sprint ability, and endurance (Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 1) in futsal players, and analyze the differences according to competitive categories or levels. The total sample (n = 40) was divided into three groups depending on the category in which the participants competed: Second Division B (n = 15), Third Division (n = 12) and juniors (n = 13). All the tests were performed with participants' regular competition shoes and on the usual playing surface, in an indoor pavilion with a floating wood floor. The results of the study did not show significant differences in acceleration capacity (5 and 15 m) or change of direction ability among the different categories. In contrast, significant differences were found among the categories with regard to horizontal jump and vertical jump capacity (p < 0.05); but not in all the variables analyzed. Performance in repeat sprint ability varied significantly among the different categories in 30 m (p < 0.01) but not in 5 m (p > 0.05). The distance covered in the YoYo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 1 by the Second Division B and the Third Division groups was greater than that covered by the junior group. In the light of these results repeated sprint ability and aerobic endurance could be two discriminating qualities of the competitive level among different futsal categories.		[Ayarra, Ruben; Iturricastillo, Aitor; Castillo, Daniel; Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Phys Educ & Sport Dept, Fac Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Nakamura, Fabio Yuzo] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Pescara, Italy; [Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500025	38	Article; Article		
J	Kisilewicz, Aleksandra; Janusiak, Marcin; Szafraniec, Rafal; Smoter, Malgorzata; Ciszek, Bogdan; Madeleine, Pascal; Fernandez-de-Las-Penas, Cesar; Kawczynski, Adam								Changes in Muscle Stiffness of the Trapezius Muscle after Application of Ischemic Compression into Myofascial Trigger Points in Professional Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			35	45		10.2478/hukin-2018-0043			SEP 2018	2018	The study aimed to assess the effects of compression trigger point therapy on the stiffness of the trapezius muscle in professional basketball players (Part A), and the reliability of the MyotonPRO device in clinical evaluation of athletes (Part B). Twelve professional basketball players participated in Part A of the study (mean age: 19.8 +/- 2.4 years, body height 197 +/- 8.2 cm, body mass: 91.8 +/- 11.8 kg), with unilateral neck or shoulder pain at the dominant side. Part B tested twelve right-handed male athletes (mean +/- SD; age: 20.4 +/- 1.2 years; body height: 178.6 +/- 7.7 cm; body mass: 73.2 +/- 12.6 kg). Stiffness measurements were obtained directly before and after a single session trigger point compression therapy. Measurements were performed bilaterally over 5 points covering the trapezius muscle. The effects were evaluated using a full-factorial repeated measure ANOVA and the Bonferroni post-hoc test for equal variance. A p-value < .05 was considered significant. The RM ANOVA revealed a significant decrease in muscle stiffness for the upper trapezius muscle. Specifically, muscle stiffness decreased from 243.7 +/- 30.5 to 215.0 +/- 48.5 N/m (11.8%), (p = .008) (Part A). The test-retest relative reliability of trapezius muscle stiffness was found to be high (ICC from 0.821 to 0.913 for measurement points). The average SEM was 23.59 N/m and the MDC 65.34 N/m, respectively (Part B). The present study showed that a single session of compression trigger point therapy can be used to significantly decrease the stiffness of the upper trapezius among professional basketball players.		[Kisilewicz, Aleksandra; Szafraniec, Rafal; Kawczynski, Adam] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Sport Sci, Wroclaw, Poland; [Janusiak, Marcin] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Phys Educ, Wroclaw, Poland; [Smoter, Malgorzata] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Biostruct, Wroclaw, Poland; [Ciszek, Bogdan] Med Univ Warsaw, Dept Anat, Warsaw, Poland; [Madeleine, Pascal] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Sport Sci, Aalborg, Denmark; [Fernandez-de-Las-Penas, Cesar] King Juan Carlos Univ, Dept Phys Therapy Occupat Therapy Rehabil & Phys, Madrid, Spain; [Kawczynski, Adam] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Sport Sci, Wroclaw, Poland								46							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500004	38	Article; Article		
J	Olivier, Nicolas; Daussin, Frederic N.								Relationships Between Isokinetic Shoulder Evaluation and Fitness Characteristics of Elite French Female Water-Polo Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			5	11		10.1515/hukin-2017-0181			SEP 2018	2018	Swimming and throwing are involved in water-polo player performance. These movements have a common biomechanical basis in the use of the internal shoulder rotation and adductor muscles. The aim of the study was to evaluate the relationship between shoulder isokinetic evaluation and throwing velocity as well as swimming performance in female water-polo players. Fifteen high level water-polo players completed two isokinetic shoulder evaluations to determine peak torque of shoulder rotators of the dominant shoulder (concentric and eccentric movements at an angular velocity of 60 degrees.s(-1) and concentric movements at an angular velocity of 240 degrees.s(-1)) and shoulder extensors of both arms (concentric movements at an angular velocity of 60 degrees.s(-1) and 240 degrees.s(-1)). Throwing velocity was measured using a radar gun placed 5 m behind the goal post. Front crawl swimming velocity was determined at 25 m, 100 m and 400 m distances. Concentric peak torque at 60 degrees.s(-1) and 240 degrees.s(-1) of internal rotators and eccentric peak torque at 60 degrees.s(-1) of external rotators were predictors of throwing velocity. The best model to explain the relationship between isokinetic evaluations and throwing velocity was obtained with concentric IR peak torque at 60 degrees.s(-1) and eccentric ER peak torque at 60 degrees.s(-1) (r2 = 0.52, p = 0.012). Relative total work done and peak torque of shoulder extensors were predictors of 25 m swimming velocity. Shoulder isokinetic evaluations correlate significantly with swimming performance and throwing velocity of female water-polo players. The results may help coaches to develop new strategies such as eccentric dry land training programs to increase both shoulder external rotators strength and throwing velocity.		[Olivier, Nicolas; Daussin, Frederic N.] Univ Littoral Cole Opale, Univ Artois, URePSSS Unite Rech Pluridisciplinaire Sport Sante, Univ Lille,EA 7369, F-59000 Lille, France; [Daussin, Frederic N.] Eurasport, 413 Ave Eugene Avinee, F-59120 Loos, France								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500001	29	Article; Article		
J	Casamichana, David; Bradley, Paul S.; Castellano, Julen								* Influence of the Varied Pitch Shape on Soccer Players Physiological Responses and Time-Motion Characteristics During Small-Sided Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			171	180		10.1515/hukin-2017-0192			SEP 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of pitch shape modifications on heart rate responses and time-motion characteristics in soccer players during 5-a-side small-sided games (SSGs). Players completed four different SSG dimensions: (1) short narrow pitch (SN; 40 x 25 m), (2) short wide pitch (SW; 66 x 25 m), (3) long narrow pitch (LN; 40 x 50 m), and (4) long wide pitch (LW; 66 x 50 m). Twenty amateur soccer players (age: 21 +/- 5 yr; stature: 176.8 +/- 1.9 cm; body mass: 72.7 +/- 3.7 kg) were monitored using a heart rate monitor and a 10 Hz GPS device. Mean maximum heart rate (% HRmax), rating of perceived exertion (RPE), peak running speed, total distance covered (TD), distance covered in four speed categories, number of moderate and high accelerations (Ac), decelerations (Dc), changes of direction (COD) and player load were recorded. Increasing the pitch length had a greater effect compared to increasing the pitch width especially on RPE (3.8, 6.3, 4.9 and 6.6 AU to SN, LN, SW and LW, respectively) and time-motion characteristics such as TD (101, 127, 108 and 131 m.min(-1) to SN, LN, SW and LW, respectively), peak speed (4.8, 6.1, 5.2 and 6.2 m.s(-1) to SN, LN, SW and LW, respectively), and the number of accelerations, decelerations, and changes of direction. The data demonstrates that increasing the length rather than the width of 5-a-side SSG has a greater impact on players' responses in terms of increasing workloads.		[Casamichana, David] Univ Cantabria, Cantabria Univ Sch, Fac Physiotherapy & Speech Therapy Gimbernat, Torrelavega, Spain; [Bradley, Paul S.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Castellano, Julen] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Portal Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								39							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500016	43	Article; Article		
J	Borges, Paulo Henrique; Cumming, Sean; Ronque, Enio R. V.; Cardoso, Felippe; Avelar, Ademar; Rechenchosky, Leandro; da Costa, Israel Teoldo; Rinaldi, Wilson								Relationship Between Tactical Performance, Somatic Maturity and Functional Capabilities in Young Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			160	169		10.1515/hukin-2017-0190			SEP 2018	2018	The aim of the study was to investigate the relationship between tactical performance, somatic maturity, and functional capabilities in young soccer players. Study participants were 48 soccer players (14.80 +/- 1.5 years) belonging to an extension project at the State University of Maringa - Brazil. Anthropometric measurements of body mass, body height, and sitting height were carried out. The number of years to peak height velocity (PHV) was used as an index of maturation. Evaluations of functional fitness included the following tests: sit-and-reach, Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 1, handgrip test, modified abdominal test, and vertical jumps (Counter Movement Jump and Jump Squat). Tactical performance was assessed through the System of Tactical Assessment in Soccer (FUT-SAT). Multiple Linear Regression models were used to estimate the relative contributions of functional and maturational capacities to tactical performance. The results indicated weak associations between the tactical performance indices and somatic maturity, functional capacity, and anthropometric attributes (r < 0.40). The Yo-Yo Test contributed to 36% of the defensive tactic performance variation in the under 13 category. These results suggest that the level of maturity, growth status, and functional fitness have limited impact on tactical performance of young soccer players.		[Borges, Paulo Henrique; Avelar, Ademar; Rechenchosky, Leandro; Rinaldi, Wilson] Univ Estadual Maringa, Dept Phys Educ, Maringa, Parana, Brazil; [Cumming, Sean] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Ronque, Enio R. V.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Dept Phys Educ, Londrina, Brazil; [Cardoso, Felippe; da Costa, Israel Teoldo] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Phys Educ, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Borges, Paulo Henrique] Domingos Miao St 309, BR-87023025 Maringa, PR, Brazil								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500015	40	Article; Article		
J	Gronek, Piotr; Gronek, Joanna; Lulinska-Kuklik, Ewelina; Spieszny, Michal; Niewczas, Marta; Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz; Petr, Miroslav; Fischerova, Patricia; Ahmetov, Ildus I.; Zmijewski, Piotr								Polygenic Study of Endurance-Associated Genetic Markers <i>NOS3</i> (Glu298Asp), <i>BDKRB2</i> (-9/+9), <i>UCP2</i> (Ala55Val), <i>AMPD1</i> (Gln45Ter) and <i>ACE</i> (I/D) in Polish Male Half Marathoners								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			87	98		10.1515/hukin-2017-0204			SEP 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to investigate individually and in combination the association between the ACE (I/D), NOS3 (Glu298Asp), BDKRB2 (-9/+ 9), UCP2 (Ala55Val) and AMPD1 (Gln45Ter) variants with endurance performance in a large, performance-homogenous cohort of elite Polish half marathoners. The study group consisted of 180 elite half marathoners: 76 with time < 100 minutes and 104 with time > 100 minutes. DNA of the subjects was extracted from buccal cells donated by the runners and genotyping was carried out using an allelic discrimination assay with a C1000 Touch Thermal Cycler (Bio-Rad, Germany) instrument with TaqMan (R) probes (NOS3, UCP2, and AMPD1) and a T100 (TM) Thermal Cycler (Bio-Rad, Germany) instrument (ACE and BDKRB2). We found that the UCP2 Ala55Val polymorphism was associated with running performance, with the subjects carrying the Val allele being overrepresented in the group of most successful runners (< 100 min) compared to the > 100 min group (84.2 vs. 55.8%; OR = 4.23, p < 0.0001). Next, to assess the combined impact of 4 gene polymorphisms, all athletes were classified according to the number of 'endurance' alleles (ACE I, NOS3 Glu, BDKRB2 -9, UCP2 Val) they possessed. The proportion of subjects with a high (4-7) number of 'endurance' alleles was greater in the better half marathoners group compared with the > 100 min group (73.7 vs. 51.9%; OR = 2.6, p = 0.0034). These data suggest that the likelihood of becoming an elite half marathoner partly depends on the carriage of a high number of endurance-related alleles.		[Gronek, Piotr; Gronek, Joanna] Univ Sch Phys Educ Poznan, Dept Gymnast & Dance, Lab Genet, Poznan, Poland; [Lulinska-Kuklik, Ewelina; Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz] Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Tourism & Recreat, Gdansk, Poland; [Spieszny, Michal] Univ Phys Educ, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Inst Sports, Krakow, Poland; [Niewczas, Marta] Univ Rzeszow, Fac Phys Educ, Rzeszow, Poland; [Petr, Miroslav] Charles Univ Prague, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Fischerova, Patricia] J Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Methodol Stat & Informat, Katowice, Poland; [Ahmetov, Ildus I.] Kazan State Med Univ, Lab Mol Genet, Kazan, Russia; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Univ Informat Technol & Management Rzeszow, Fac Med, Rzeszow, Poland; [Gronek, Piotr] Univ Sch Phys Educ Poznan, Dept Gymnast & Dance, Lab Genet, Poznan, Poland								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500009	45	Article; Article		
J	Michalickova, Danica; Kotur-Stevuljevic, Jelena; Miljkovic, Milica; Dikic, Nenad; Kostic-Vucicevic, Marija; Andjelkovic, Marija; Koricanac, Vladimir; Djordjevic, Brizita								Effects of Probiotic Supplementation on Selected Parameters of Blood Prooxidant-Antioxidant Balance in Elite Athletes: A Double-Blind Randomized Placebo-Controlled Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			111	122		10.1515/hukin-2017-0203			SEP 2018	2018	A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was conducted, in order to evaluate if Lactobacillus helveticus Lafti (R) L10 (Lallemand Health Solutions, Montreal, Canada) supplementation during three months could influence oxidative markers in the population of elite athletes: triathletes, cyclists and endurance athletes. Twenty-two elite athletes were randomized to either placebo (n = 12) or probiotic (n = 10) groups. The probiotic group received 2x1010 colony forming units of Lafti (R) L10. Before and after the supplementation serum samples were collected. Markers of oxidative stress and anti-oxidative defense: superoxide dismutase (SOD), paraoxonase (PON), advanced oxidation protein products (AOPP), malondialdehyde (MDA), total antioxidant status, total oxidant status, prooxidant-antioxidant balance, oxidative stress index, bilirubin, uric acid and albumin were determined in serum. Parameters of lipid status, as well as susceptibility to copper-induced oxidation of LDL particles in vitro were also determined. There was a significant interaction effect for MDA (p = 0.039), with a decrease in MDA in the probiotic group only (p = 0.049). There was a significant interaction effect for AOPP (p = 0.037), with a significant decrease in the probiotic group (p = 0.045). Interaction effect for SOD was approaching to formal significance (p = 0.108) and the post-hoc test showed a significant decrease in the probiotic group (p = 0.041) only. A significant correlation between AOPP and SOD (p = 0.012, r = -0.40) was found in the probiotic group at the end of the study. PON1 activity was decreased in both the probiotic (p = 0.032) and placebo group (p = 0.035). No significant changes in the remainder of the evaluated parameters were noted. In conclusion, probiotic strain Lafti (R) L10 exerts certain antioxidant potential, but further research is needed.		[Michalickova, Danica] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Med 1, Inst Pharmacol, Prague, Czech Republic; [Kotur-Stevuljevic, Jelena; Miljkovic, Milica] Univ Belgrade, Fac Pharm, Dept Med Biochem, Belgrade, Serbia; [Dikic, Nenad; Kostic-Vucicevic, Marija; Andjelkovic, Marija] Sports Med Assoc Serbia, Belgrade, Serbia; [Koricanac, Vladimir] Inst Meat Hyg & Technol, Belgrade, Serbia; [Djordjevic, Brizita] Univ Belgrade, Fac Pharm, Dept Bromatol, Belgrade, Serbia; [Michalickova, Danica] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Med 1, Inst Pharmacol, Prague, Czech Republic								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500011	31	Article; Article		
J	Martens, Geraldine; Deflandre, Dorian; Schwartz, Cedric; Dardenne, Nadia; Bury, Thierry								Reproducibility of the Evolution of Stride Biomechanics During Exhaustive Runs								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			57	69		10.1515/hukin-2017-0184			SEP 2018	2018	Running biomechanics and its evolution that occurs over intensive trials are widely studied, but few studies have focused on the reproducibility of stride evolution in these runs. The purpose of this investigation was to assess the reproducibility of changes in eight biomechanical variables during exhaustive runs, using three-dimensional analysis. Ten male athletes (age: 23 +/- 4 years; maximal oxygen uptake: 57.5 +/- 4.4 ml0(2).min(-1).kg(-1); maximal aerobic speed: 19.3 +/- 0.8 km.h(-1)) performed a maximal treadmill test. Between 3 to 10 days later, they started a series of three time-to-exhaustion trials at 90% of the individual maximal aerobic speed, seven days apart. During these trials eight biomechanical variables were recorded over a 20-s period every 4 min until exhaustion. The evolution of a variable over a trial was represented as the slope of the linear regression of these variables over time. Reproducibility was assessed with intraclass correlation coefficients and variability was quantified as standard error of measurement. Changes in five variables (swing duration, stride frequency, step length, centre of gravity vertical and lateral amplitude) showed moderate to good reproducibility (0.48 <= ICC <= 0.72), while changes in stance duration, reactivity and foot orientation showed poor reproducibility (-0.71 <= ICC <= 0.04). Fatigue-induced changes in stride biomechanics do not follow a reproducible course across the board; however, several variables do show satisfactory stability: swing duration, stride frequency, step length and centre of gravity shift.		[Martens, Geraldine] Univ Liege, GIGA Res & Neurol Dept, Coma Sci Grp, Liege, Belgium; [Martens, Geraldine] Univ Hosp Liege, Liege, Belgium; [Martens, Geraldine; Deflandre, Dorian; Schwartz, Cedric; Bury, Thierry] Univ Liege, Dept Sport & Rehabil Sci, Liege, Belgium; [Schwartz, Cedric] Univ Liege, Lab Human Mot Anal LAMH, Liege, Belgium; [Dardenne, Nadia] Univ Liege, Publ Hlth Dept, Liege, Belgium; [Martens, Geraldine] 11 Ave Hop, B-4000 Liege, Belgium								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500006	66	Article; Article		
J	Yuasa, Yasuhiro; Kurihara, Toshiyuki; Isaka, Tadao								Relationship Between Toe Muscular Strength and the Ability to Change Direction in Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			47	55		10.1515/hukin-2017-0183			SEP 2018	2018	This study aimed to investigate the relationship between toe muscular strength and the ability to change direction in athletes. Seventeen collegiate American-football players participated in the study (age 19.9 +/- 0.9 years, competition experience 7.3 +/- 1.7 years). Two types of measurements were performed to evaluate toe muscular strength: toe flexor strength with the metatarsophalangeal joint in the planter flexed position and toe-pushing force with the metatarsophalangeal joint in the dorsiflexed position. The ability to change direction was evaluated using the pro-agility and 3-cone tests and change of direction deficits, calculated by subtracting the sprint times from the pro-agility and 3-cone times. There were significant correlations between toe-pushing force and the results of the pro-agility and 3-cone tests, but no significant correlations between toe flexor strength and the pro-agility and 3-cone tests. Neither toepushing force nor toe flexor strength was significantly correlated with the sprint test results. Furthermore, toe-pushing force was significantly correlated with the 3-cone test deficit, but toe flexor strength was not. The ability to change direction is more strongly affected by toe muscular strength (measured as toe-pushing force) with the metatarsophalangeal joint in the dorsiflexed angle than by toe muscular strength (measured as toe flexor strength) with the metatarsophalangeal joint in the plantar flexed angle. Our results suggest that athletes can improve their ability to change direction with toe muscular strength training with the metatarsophalangeal joint in the dorsiflexed position.		[Yuasa, Yasuhiro; Kurihara, Toshiyuki; Isaka, Tadao] Ritsumeikan Univ, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, 1-1-1 Noji Higashi, Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan; [Kurihara, Toshiyuki] Ritsumeikan Univ, Dept Sport & Hlth Sci, 1-1-1 Noji Higashi, Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500005	29	Article; Article		
J	Ibanez, Sergio J.; Garcia-Rubio, Javier; Gomez, Miguel-Angel; Gonzalez-Espinosa, Sergio								The Impact of Rule Modifications on Elite Basketball Teams' Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			181	193		10.1515/hukin-2017-0193			SEP 2018	2018	Rule modifications in basketball are used to develop the sport, and FIBA changes the basketball regulations periodically and constantly in search of a more attractive game. The objectives of this study were as follows: i) to characterise and identify the technical-tactical performance indicators which discriminated the game style according to the effect of rule modifications; and ii) to analyse the persistence of these indicators according to rule modifications over time. Analyses were made of all the editions of the current competition system of the Copa Del Rey in Spanish basketball. One hundred and forty matches were analysed, starting from the 1995-96 to the 2014-15 season. Data were gathered from the official competition web page (www.acb.com). The variables analysed included rule modifications, the number of ball possessions, points scored, one, two and 3-point field goals made and attempted, total rebounds, defensive and offensive rebounds, assists, steals, turnovers, blocked shots, dunks and committed and received personal fouls, score differences, as well as one, two and 3-point field-goal percentages. Several analyses were carried out: descriptive analysis to characterise the sample; ANOVA to identify differences between periods; discriminant analysis to determine technical-tactical performance indicators which best discriminated between each competition term and rule change period; and finally autocorrelation function and cross-correlation were used to estimate the persistency of performance indicators over time. Results show that rule changes affect the way basketball is played. Nevertheless, players and coaches are the ones who determine functional behavior in basketball.		[Ibanez, Sergio J.; Gonzalez-Espinosa, Sergio] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sports Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Garcia-Rubio, Javier] Univ Autonoma Chile, Fac Educ, Santiago De Chille, Chile; [Gomez, Miguel-Angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Ibanez, Sergio J.; Garcia-Rubio, Javier; Gonzalez-Espinosa, Sergio] Univ Extremadura, GOERD Res Grp, Extremadura, Spain; [Garcia-Rubio, Javier] Univ Autonoma Chile, Fac Educ, Ricardo Morales 3369, San Miguel, Region Metropol, Chile								43							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500017	46	Article; Article		
J	Varamenti, Evdokia; Nikolovski, Zoran; Elgingo, Mohamed I.; Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.; Cardinale, Marco								Training-Induced Variations in Haematological and Biochemical Variables in Adolescent Athletes of Arab Origin Throughout an Entire Athletic Season								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			123	135		10.1515/hukin-2017-0187			SEP 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to observe and report variations in several haematological and biochemical markers throughout an entire athletic season in a large cohort of adolescent athletes of Arab origin. Blood samples were collected from 72 adolescent male athletes at 4 selected time points during their training season. Results expressed in relation to plasma volume were corrected accordingly and significant variations in several variables emerged. Initial uncorrected haematological results revealed that haematocrit (Hct) and mean cell volume (MCV) concentrations noticeably increased at the competitive period (T3) and before the start of the following preseason (T4), whereas reticulocytes equivalent (Ret-He) only rose at T4 phase (p < 0.01). Conversely, corrected red blood cells (RBC), haemoglobin (Hb) and mean cell haemoglobin concentration (MCHC) progressively decreased over the year (p < 0.001). From the electrolytes panel, sodium and chloride considerably reduced at the peak of the training period (T2) to the start of the next preseason (T4), while a significant fall in potassium was mainly observed during the competitive period (T3) (p < 0.001). Coaches and sport scientists could use the results of this study to evaluate typical variations of each age group in order to diagnose potential adverse effects of high training loads, assist in the design of training programs and/or clinical interventions that will safeguard athletes' health, and consider the important role of plasma volume for the interpretation of results.		[Varamenti, Evdokia; Nikolovski, Zoran; Elgingo, Mohamed I.; Cardinale, Marco] Aspire Acad, Dept Sports Sci, POB 22287, Doha, Qatar; [Cardinale, Marco] UCL, Dept Comp Sci, London, England; [Cardinale, Marco] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Cardinale, Marco] Univ St Mark & St John, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Plymouth, Devon, England; [Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.] Univ Thessaly, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Thessaly, Greece; [Varamenti, Evdokia] Aspire Acad, Dept Sports Sci, POB 22287, Doha, Qatar								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500012	28	Article; Article		
J	Rubajczyk, Krystian; Rokita, Andrzej								The Relative Age Effect in Poland's Elite Youth Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			265	273		10.1515/hukin-2017-0200			SEP 2018	2018	The relative age effect (RAE) is related to discrimination against youth athletes born in the last quarter of the calendar year. The current study presents research on the RAE in elite youth soccer players in Poland. Players in the Central Junior League (CLJ) finals represent 0.59% of the 25,756 players under 20 years old (U20). This study analyzed the post-game protocols of the CLJ knockout stage from the 2013/2014 and 2014/2015 seasons as well as the U17-U21 teams during 2015, including only players who played on the field for at least one minute (n = 395). The results revealed the existence of RAE in the examined groups (CLJ 2013/2014, chi(2)3 = 15.441, p < 0.01, CLJ 2014/2015, chi(2)3 = 20.891, p < 0.001 U17-U21, chi(2)3 = 25.110, p < 0.001). In addition, the results differed by monthly birth distribution in the Polish population (PP) between 1995 and 1999. This study is the first to examine the RAE in youth soccer in Poland. The occurrence of the RAE with regard to the most promising youth and national team players suggests that a similar effect exists among younger age categories. To reduce the RAE related to identifying soccer talent, tools should be implemented to optimize the player-selection process, such as those that consider the biological development of a player.		[Rubajczyk, Krystian; Rokita, Andrzej] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Team Games Sport, Wroclaw, Poland; [Rubajczyk, Krystian] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Team Games Sport, Wroclaw, Poland								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500024	30	Article; Article		
J	Loturco, Irineu; Jeffreys, Ian; Kobal, Ronaldo; Cal Abad, Cesar C.; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Zanetti, Vinicius; Pereira, Lucas A.; Nakamura, Fabio Y.								Acceleration and Speed Performance of Brazilian Elite Soccer Players of Different Age-Categories								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			205	218		10.1515/hukin-2017-0195			SEP 2018	2018	This study aimed to compare vertical jump ability (squat-jump [SJ] and countermovement-jump [CMJ]), relative to body mass mean propulsive power in the jump-squat (MPP-REL JS), and the 0-5, 5-10, and 10-20 m acceleration and speed among soccer players from the same professional club, divided into age-categories (U15 [n = 20], U17 [n = 53], U20 [n = 22] and senior [n = 25] players). The tests were performed at the start of the preseason in indoor facilities. The magnitude-based inference approach and the standardized differences (based on effect sizes) were used to compare the age-groups. The SJ, CMJ, and MPP-REL JS increased across the age-groups up to U20, the latter being similar to senior players. Interestingly, the 0-5 m acceleration was likely and possibly higher in U15 players compared to U17 and senior players. Although soccer athletes improve their unloaded and loaded jump abilities across the age-categories (plateauing during adulthood), the same does not hold true for acceleration capacity, from the early phases of players' development (i.e., U15). Strength and conditioning professionals should seek effective strategies to minimize impairment in maximal acceleration performance of elite soccer players throughout their prospective training programs.		[Loturco, Irineu; Kobal, Ronaldo; Cal Abad, Cesar C.; Pereira, Lucas A.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Av Padre Jose Maria,555 Santo Amaro, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Jeffreys, Ian] Univ South Wales, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Dept Phys Act Sci, Osorno, Chile; [Zanetti, Vinicius] Red Bull Brazil Football, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Londrina, PR, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Av Padre Jose Maria,555 Santo Amaro, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500019	42	Article; Article		
J	Pratas, Jose M.; Volossovitch, Anna; Carita, Ana, I								Analysis of Scoring Sequences in Matches of the Portuguese Premier League								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			255	263		10.1515/hukin-2017-0199			SEP 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to examine the sequences of the first two goals scored in soccer matches in accordance with a range of different match contexts. Data from 1506 matches played in the Portuguese Premier League during six consecutive competitive seasons (2009-10 to 2014-2015) were analysed using descriptive statistics and the chi-square test in order to verify the association between variables and a Cox regression analysis was used to predict the time the second goal was scored in function of the time of the first goal scored in the match and the scoreline. The results revealed a higher frequency of the second goals being scored in the second half of a match (58%) and in the last 5 min periods of each half. A positive association was found for home teams and score-doubling goals (58%), as well as for away teams and score-equalizing goals (56%). For home and away teams the score-doubling goal of a match was strongly and positively associated with a win outcome for home (93%) and away teams (92%), while the scoreequalizing goals were associated with a draw (home and away teams: 44%) and loss outcome (home: 33% and away teams: 32%). Finally, the Cox model showed that if the first goal was scored in the second half of the match, the probability of the second goal being scored was three times higher compared to the first half.		[Pratas, Jose M.; Volossovitch, Anna] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, SpertLab, CIPER, Estr Costa, P-1495688 Lisbon, Portugal; [Carita, Ana, I] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, BIOLAD, CIPER, Estr Costa, P-1495688 Cruz Quebrada, Portugal; [Pratas, Jose M.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, SpertLab, CIPER, Estr Costa, P-1495688 Lisbon, Portugal								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500023	32	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Meizi; Fu, Lin; Gu, Yaodong; Mei, Qichang; Fu, Fengqin; Fernandez, Justin								Comparative Study of Kinematics and Muscle Activity Between Elite and Amateur Table Tennis Players During Topspin Loop Against Backspin Movements								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				64	1			25	33		10.1515/hukin-2017-0182			SEP 2018	2018	This study investigated differences of lower limb kinematics and muscle activity during table tennis topspin loop against backspin movements between elite players (EPs) and amateur players (APs). Ten EPs and ten APs performed crosscourt backhand loop movements against the backspin ball with maximal power. Vicon motion analysis and a MEGA ME6000 system was used to capture kinematics and surface EMG data. The motion was divided into two phases, including the backswing and swing. The joints' flexion and extension angle tendency between EPs and APs differed significantly. The coefficient of multiple correlation (CMC) values for EPs were all beyond 0.9, indicating high similarity of joint angles change. APs presented moderate similarity with CMC values from 0.5 to 0.75. Compared to APs, EPs presented larger ankle eversion, knee and hip flexion at the beginning moment of the backswing. In the sEMG test, EPs presented smaller standardized AEMG (average electromyography) of the lower limb muscles in the rectus femoris and tibia anterior on both sides. Additionally, the maximum activation of each muscle for EPs was smaller and MPF (mean power frequency) of the lower limb was greater during the whole movement. The present study revealed that EPs could complete this technical motion more economically than APs, meanwhile, EPs were more efficient in muscle usage and showed better balance ability.		[Wang, Meizi; Fu, Lin; Gu, Yaodong; Mei, Qichang; Fu, Fengqin] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 818 Fenghua Rd, Ningbo, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Mei, Qichang; Fernandez, Justin] Univ Auckland, Dept Engn Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Mei, Qichang; Fernandez, Justin] Univ Auckland, Auckland Bioengn Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Gu, Yaodong] Ningbo Univ, Fac Sports Sci, 818 Fenghua Rd, Ningbo, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000447662500003	24	Article; Article		
J	Gatterer, Hannes; Menz, Verena; Salazar-Martinez, Eduardo; Sumbalova, Zuzana; Garcia-Souza, Luiz Felipe; Velika, Beata; Gnaiger, Erich; Burtscher, Martin								Exercise Performance, Muscle Oxygen Extraction and Blood Cell Mitochondrial Respiration after Repeated-Sprint and Sprint Interval Training in Hypoxia: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			339	347					SEP 2018	2018	This study aimed to investigate and compare the effects of repeated-sprint (RSH) and sprint interval training in hypoxia (SIH) on sea level running and cycling performance, and to elucidate potential common or divergent adaptations of muscle perfusion and -oxygenation as well as mitochondrial respiration of blood cells. Eleven team-sport athletes performed either RSH (3x5x10s, 20s and 5min recovery between repetitions and sets) or SIH (4x30s, 5min recovery) cycling training for 3weeks (3 times/week) at a simulated altitude of 2,200m. Before and three days after the training period, a Wingate and a repeated cycling sprint test (5x6s, 20s recovery) were performed with a 30min resting period between the tests. Four to five days after the training, participants performed a repeated miming sprint test (RSA, 6x17m back and forth, 20s recovery) and a Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test (YYIR2) with 1 hour active recovery between tests. The order of the tests as well as the duration of the resting periods remained the same before and after the training period. During the cycling tests near-infrared spectroscopy was performed on the vastus lateralis. In four participants, mitochondrial respiration of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and platelets was measured before and after training YYIR2 running distance increased by +96.7 +/- 145.6 m after RSH and by +100.0 +/- 51.6 m after SIH (p = 0.034, eta(2) = 0.449). RSA mean miming time improved by -0.138 +/- 0.14s and -0.107 +/- 0.08s after RSH and SIH respectively (p = 0.012, eta(2) = 0.564). RSH compared to SIH improved re-oxygenation during repeated sprinting. Improvements in repeated cycling were associated with improvements in re-oxygenation (r = 0.707, p < 0.05). Mitochondrial electron transfer capacity normalized per PBMC count was decreased in RSH only. This study showed that cycling RSH and SIH training improves sea-level running performance. Our preliminary results suggest that RSH and SIH training results in different patterns of muscular oxygen extraction and PBMC mitochondrial respiration, without effect on platelets respiration.		[Gatterer, Hannes] EURAC Res, Inst Mt Emergency Med, Viale Druso 1, I-39100 Bolzano, Italy; [Gatterer, Hannes; Menz, Verena; Garcia-Souza, Luiz Felipe; Burtscher, Martin] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Salazar-Martinez, Eduardo] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Dept Sports & Comp, Seville, Spain; [Sumbalova, Zuzana; Garcia-Souza, Luiz Felipe; Velika, Beata; Gnaiger, Erich] Med Univ Innsbruck, Dept Visceral & Thorac Surg, D Swarovski Res Lab, Innsbruck, Austria; [Sumbalova, Zuzana] Comenius Univ, Dept Internal Med 3, Pharmacobiochem Lab, Fac Med, Bratislava, Slovakia; [Velika, Beata] Pavol Jozef Safarik Univ Kosice, Fac Med, Dept Med & Clin Biochem, Kosice, Slovakia; [Gnaiger, Erich] Oroboros Instruments, Innsbruck, Austria; [Gatterer, Hannes] EURAC Res, Inst Mt Emergency Med, Viale Druso 1, I-39100 Bolzano, Italy								35							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200001	43	Article; Article		
J	Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.; Fatouros, Ioannis G.; Deli, Chariklia K.; Georgakouli, Kalliopi; Poulios, Athanasios; Draganidis, Dimitrios; Papanikolaou, Konstantinos; Tsimeas, Panagiotis; Chatzinikolaou, Athanasios; Avloniti, Alexandra; Tsiokanos, Athanasios; Koutedakis, Yiannis								The Effects of Acute Low-Volume HIIT and Aerobic Exercise on Leukocyte Count and Redox Status								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			501	508					SEP 2018	2018	A single bout of exercise can result in inflammatory responses, increased oxidative stress and upregulation of enzymatic antioxidant mechanisms. Although low-volume high-intensity interval training (HIIT) has become popular, its acute responses on the above mechanisms have not been adequately studied. The present study evaluated the effects of HIIT on hematological profile and redox status compared with those following traditional continuous aerobic exercise (CET). Twelve healthy young men participated in a randomized crossover design under HIIT and CET. In MIT session, participants performed four 30-sec sprints on a cycle-ergometer with 4 min of recovery against a resistance of 0.375 kg/kg of body mass. CET consisted of 30-min cycling on a cycle-ergometer at 70% of their VO2max. Blood was drawn at baseline, immediately post, 24h, 48h and 72h post-exercise and was analyzed for complete blood count and redox status (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, [TBARS]; protein carbonyls, [PC]; total antioxidant capacity, [TAC]; catalase and uric acid). White blood cells (WBC) increased after both exercise protocols immediately post-exercise (HIIT: 50% and CET: 31%, respectively). HIIT increased (+22%) PC post-exercise compared to baseline and CET (p < 0.05). HIIT increased TAC immediately post-exercise (16%) and at 24h post-exercise (11%, p < 0.05), while CET increased TAC only post-exercise (12%, p < 0.05) compared to baseline, and TAC was higher following HIIT compared to CET (p < 0.05). Both HIIT and CET increased uric acid immediately post- (21% and 5%, respectively, p < 0.05) and 24h (27% and 5%, respectively, p < 0.05) post-exercise and the rise was greater following HIIT (p < 0.05). There were no significant changes (p > 0.05) for TBARS and catalase following either exercise protocol. Low-volume HIIT is associated with a greater acute phase leukocyte count and redox response than low-volume CET, and this should be considered when an exercise training program is developed and complete blood count is performed for health purposes.		[Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.; Fatouros, Ioannis G.; Deli, Chariklia K.; Georgakouli, Kalliopi; Poulios, Athanasios; Draganidis, Dimitrios; Papanikolaou, Konstantinos; Tsimeas, Panagiotis; Tsiokanos, Athanasios; Koutedakis, Yiannis] Univ Thessaly, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Karies, Greece; [Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.; Koutedakis, Yiannis] Ctr Res & Technol Thessaly, Inst Human Performance & Rehabil, Thessaly, Greece; [Chatzinikolaou, Athanasios; Avloniti, Alexandra] Univ Thrace, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Komotini, Greece; [Koutedakis, Yiannis] Univ Wolverhampton, Sch Sports Performing Arts & Leisure, Wolverhampton, England; [Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.] Univ Thessaly, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Karies 42100, Trikala, Greece								63							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200019	46	Article; Article		
J	Girard, Olivier; Millet, Gregoire P.; Thomson, Athol; Brocherie, Franck								Is Plantar Loading Altered During Repeated Sprints on Artificial Turf in International Football Players?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			359	365					SEP 2018	2018	We compared fatigue-induced changes in plantar loading during the repeated anaerobic sprint test over two distinct distance intervals. Twelve international male football outfield players (Qatar Football Association) completed 6 x 35-m sprints (10 s of active recovery) on artificial turf with their football boots. Insole plantar pressure distribution was continuously recorded and values (whole foot and under 9 foot zones) subsequently averaged and compared over two distinct distance intervals (0-17.5 m vs. 17.5-35 m). Sprint times increased (p < 0.001) from the first (4.87 +/- 0.13 s) to the last (5.63 +/- 0.31 s) repetition, independently of the distance interval. Contact area (150 +/- 23 vs. 158 +/- 19 cm(2); -5.8 +/- 9.1%; p = 0.032), maximum force (1910 +/- 559 vs. 2211 +/- 613 N; -16.9 +/- 18.2%; p = 0.005) and mean pressure (154 +/- 41 vs. 172 +/- 37 kPa; -13.9 +/- 19.0%; p = 0.033) for the whole foot were lower at 0-17.5 m vs. 17.5-35 m, irrespectively of sprint number. There were no main effects of sprint number or any significant interactions for any plantar variables of the whole foot. The distance interval x sprint number x foot region interaction on relative loads was not significant. Neither distance interval nor fatigue modified plantar pressure distribution patterns. Fatigue led to a decrement in sprint time but no significant change in plantar pressure distribution patterns across sprint repetitions.		[Girard, Olivier; Thomson, Athol] Murdoch Univ, Sch Psychol & Exercise Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Girard, Olivier] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Millet, Gregoire P.] Univ Lausanne, Fac Biol & Med, Inst Sport Sci, ISSUL, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Thomson, Athol] Univ Ulster, Ulster Sports Acad, Belfast, Antrim, North Ireland; [Brocherie, Franck] French Inst Sport INSEP, Res Dept, EA 7370, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, Paris, France; [Millet, Gregoire P.] Univ Lausanne, Fac Biol & Med, Inst Sport Sci, ISSUL, Lausanne, Switzerland								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200003	38	Article; Article		
J	Menuchi, Marcos R. T. P.; Moro, Antonio R. P.; Ambrosio, Paulo E.; Pariente, Cesar A. B.; Araujo, Duarte								Effects of Spatiotemporal Constraints and Age on the Interactions of Soccer Players when Competing for Ball Possession								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			379	391					SEP 2018	2018	Although there are several descriptions of interpersonal coordination in soccer teams, little is known about how such coordination is influenced by space and time constraints. In this study, we analyzed variations in interpersonal coordination under different marking intensities and across different age groups. Marking intensity was manipulated by changing the players' game space and time of ball possession in a conditioned soccer game known as rondo. Five participants in each age category (U13, U15, U17, and U20) performed rondo tasks in four experimental conditions, in a total of 134 trials. The dependent variables considered were pass performance and eco-physical variables capturing the player-environment coupling, such as coupling of the marking between players. Our results demonstrate that in soccer: (1) markers and passers are tightly coupled; (2) the marker-passer coupling emerges from a flexible and adaptive exchange of passes; (3) the marker-passer coupling is stronger in markings of higher intensity and older age groups. Thus, the interactions between soccer players in marking can be analyzed as an emerging and self-organized process in the context of group performance.		[Menuchi, Marcos R. T. P.; Ambrosio, Paulo E.; Pariente, Cesar A. B.] Univ Estadual Santa Cruz, Ilheus, Brazil; [Menuchi, Marcos R. T. P.; Moro, Antonio R. P.] Santa Catarina Fed Univ, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Araujo, Duarte] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal; [Menuchi, Marcos R. T. P.] Univ Estadual Santa Cruz, Dept Hlth Sci, Rodovia Jorge Amado,Km 16, BR-45662900 Ilheus, BA, Brazil								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200006	57	Article; Article		
J	Naughton, Mitchell; Miller, Joanna; Slater, Gary J.								Impact-Induced Muscle Damage: Performance Implications in Response to a Novel Collision Simulator and Associated Timeline of Recovery								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			417	425					SEP 2018	2018	The implications of impact-induced muscle damage (IIMD) that results from participation in contact-sport are not well understood. The purpose of the present study was to implement a novel method of generating IIMD and characterise the implications of this on perceptual, biochemical and exercise performance parameters. Eighteen male recreational contact-sport athletes completed a single-group time series with measures assessed at baseline (PRE) and immediately following (POST) an IIMD protocol, with repeat testing 24, 48, and 72 h following the IIMD protocol. Biochemical indices of muscle damage (myoglobin [Mb]) and inflammation (high-sensitivity C-reactive protein [hs-CRP]), 15 m sprint performance, squat jump peak power (SJ-PP), and perceived soreness were compared to PRE using a one-way (time) repeated measures ANOVA with post-hoc t tests. Speed over 5 and 15 m were impaired for 48 h (7.5 +/- 4%, p < 0.01) and SJ-PP was impaired for 48 h following the IIMD protocol (9.5 +/- 3%, p < 0.01). Subjective soreness was elevated from baseline for 72 h (P < 0.01) following the IIMD protocol. No change in [CRP] or [Mb] was observed (p > 0.01). IIMD resulted in impaired ability to produce power and speed, whilst negatively influencing perceived soreness. These changes were most pronounced in the 48 h following the IIMD protocol. No change in muscle damage or inflammation indices were observed, primarily due to the highly variable response. Thus, the experimental protocol used in the present study may be used as a model to further investigate other aspects of IIMD.		[Naughton, Mitchell; Slater, Gary J.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Miller, Joanna] Australian Inst Sports, Physiol, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Naughton, Mitchell] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200010	46	Article; Article		
J	Casamichana, David; Morencos, Esther; Romero-Moraleda, Blanca; Gabbett, Tim J.								The Use of Generic and Individual Speed Thresholds for Assessing the Competitive Demands of Field Hockey								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	3			366	371					SEP 2018	2018	The current study compared the miming demands of professional field hockey players using individualized speed zones and generic default settings of the GPS manufacturer. In addition, the differences in slow, moderate and fast players were studied. Sixteen male players from the same club participated in the study (age: 25.5 +/- 2.9 years; body mass: 74.6 +/- 5.5 kg; stature 1.77 +/- 0.05 m). The peak speed of each participant was established at the end of the data collection period by analyzing all training and playing data throughout the season. Using players peak speed achieved for each participant during the season, individualized speed zones were retrospectively applied to all match-play data. Peak speed was used to categorize players into three groups, slow (5 players: 29.2-30.2 km. h(-1)), moderate (6 players: 30.7-31.5 km.h(-1)) and fast (5 players: 32.2-33.7 km.h(-1)). Significant differences were observed between generic and individual thresholds for the distance covered in moderate, high, and very high-speed running in all positions (p = 0.01). Our findings show that the distances covered at high-speeds in midfielders and forwards were overestimated, while the very high-speed running and sprinting in backs were underestimated. Generic speed thresholds should be used if comparisons between positions is of importance. However, based on the different capacities of field hockey players, individual speed thresholds may be more suitable when addressing the relative stress on individual athletes.		[Casamichana, David] Univ Europea Atlantico, Fac Educ & Food, Santander, Spain; [Morencos, Esther] Francisco Vitoria Univ, UFV, Exercise & Sport Sci Educ & Humanities Fac, Madrid, Spain; [Romero-Moraleda, Blanca] Camilo Jose Cela Univ, Educ & Hlth Fac, Madrid, Spain; [Romero-Moraleda, Blanca] Univ Politecn Madrid, Sch Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, Physiol Res Grp, Lab Exercise, Madrid, Spain; [Gabbett, Tim J.] Gabbett Performance Solut, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Gabbett, Tim J.] Univ Southern Queensland, Inst Resilient Reg, Ipswich, Qld, Australia; [Casamichana, David] Univ Europea Atlantico, Fac Educ & Sport, Dept Hlth & Food, Santander, Spain								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000441564200004	27	Article; Article		
J	Ko, Jupil; Rosen, Adam B.; Brown, Cathleen N.								Functional performance deficits in adolescent athletes with a history of lateral ankle sprain(s)								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				125	132		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.07.010			SEP 2018	2018	Objective: To determine if adolescent athletes with a history of lateral ankle sprain(s) (LAS) displayed deficits on functional performance tests (FPTs) and if deficits on FPT were related to the number of previous LAS. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Biomechanics Laboratory. Participants: The injured group (n = 24) had a history of >= I moderate-severe LAS. The uninjured group (n = 34) had no history of LAS. Main outcome measure(s): The average reach distance of three trials in each direction of the star excursion balance test (SEBT) was normalized to leg length (%). The average of two trials of single-leg hop test (SLHT) was calculated in seconds. Results: The injured group performed significantly worse in 3 directions of SEBT than the uninjured group (P < 0.05). SLHT was significantly slower in the injured group compared to the uninjured group (P < 0.05). Statistically significant, strong to moderate inverse relationships were found between the numbers of LAS and each of the three directions of the SEBT (P <= 0.01). No relationship was revealed between the number of [AS and the SLHT (P > 0.05). Conclusion(s): Adolescent athletes with a history of LAS exhibit functional performance deficits on the SEBT and SLHT. Therefore, the SEBT and SLHT may provide clinicians cost- and time-effective objective tools. (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Ko, Jupil] No Arizona Univ, Phoenix, AZ USA; [Rosen, Adam B.] Univ Nebraska, Omaha, NE 68182 USA; [Brown, Cathleen N.] Oregon State Univ, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Ko, Jupil] 435 N 5th St, Phoenix, AZ 85004 USA								26							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100019	29	Article; Article		
J	Pautz, Nikolas; Olivier, Benita; Steyn, Faans								The use of nonparametric effect sizes in single study musculoskeletal physiotherapy research: A practical primer								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				117	124		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.07.009			SEP 2018	2018	There is a strong push for the inclusion of effect size indexes alongside the reporting of statistical analysis in academic journals. Nonparametric methods of analysis have generally been developed less than their parametric counterparts have, and are also generally less well known. Too often researchers use parametric statistics where nonparametric measures would be more appropriate. This holds true for nonparametric measures of effect size, where even when researchers use nonparametric statistics, some use parametric effect size measures to interpret the result. This paper attempts to provide a practical overview and illustration of the correct usage and interpretation of effect size measures for nonparametric statistics for single study designs using real-world physiotherapy data in the worked examples. This primer covers a range of different formulae based on categorical measures of effect size, as well as between- and within-group designs using ranked data. While this primer does use examples focusing on physiotherapy research, the applications of the information can be used in any field of research. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Pautz, Nikolas] Univ KwaZuluNatal UKZN, Durban, South Africa; [Pautz, Nikolas] King Edward Ave, Pietermaritzburg, South Africa; [Olivier, Benita] Univ Witwatersrand, Richard Ward, 1 Jan Smuts Ave, ZA-2000 Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa; [Steyn, Faans] North West Univ, Stat Consultat Serv, Potchefstroom Campus,Hoffman St, ZA-2520 Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Pautz, Nikolas] Univ KwaZuluNatal UKZN, Durban, South Africa; [Pautz, Nikolas] King Edward Ave, Pietermaritzburg, South Africa								38							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100018	27	Article; Article		
J	Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Barton, Christian; Crossley, Kay; Waiteman, Marina; Taborda, Bianca; Ferreira, Amanda Schenatto; de Azevedo, Fabio Micolis								Implications of knee crepitus to the overall clinical presentation of women with and without patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				89	95		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.07.007			SEP 2018	2018	Objectives: Compare anthropometric characteristics, function, kinesiophobia, catastrophism and knee extensor strength between women (i) with PFP and crepitus (PFPcrepitus); (ii) with PFP and no crepitus (PFPNOcrepitus): (iii) without PFP and crepitus (Pain-freecrepitus); and (iv) without PFP and no crepitus (Pain-free(NOcrepitus)). Design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Laboratory study. Participants: 65 women with PFP and 51 pain-free women. Main outcome measures: Objective assessment of knee crepitus, forward step-down and single leg hop tests; knee extensor strength tests; and subjective ratings of function, kinesiophobia, pain catastrophising and knee stiffness. Results: Crepitus was more common in women with PFP (50.7%) compared to those without (33.3%) (v2(1) 4.17; p = 0.031). PFPcrepitus and PFPNOcrepitus groups had lower self-reported function; and higher, kinesiophobia, catastrophism and knee stiffness compared to Pain-freecrepitus and Pain-free(NOcrepitus) groups (p <0.001). PFPcrepitus, PFPNOcrepitus and Pain-freecrepitus groups had lower functional performance compared to the Pain-freeNocrepitus group (p <0.040). PFPcrepitus and PFPNOcrepitus groups had lower isometric, concentric and eccentric knee extensor strength compared to the pain-free(NOcrepitus) group (p < 0.041), but not the pain-freecrepitus group. PFPcrepitus presented higher BMI than other groups (p = 0.001). Conclusion: Kinesiophobia, catastrophism, knee stiffness, strength and physical function are all impaired in women with PFP, regardless of crepitus. In pain-free women, crepitus was associated with poorer objective function. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Waiteman, Marina; Taborda, Bianca; Ferreira, Amanda Schenatto; de Azevedo, Fabio Micolis] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Sch Sci & Technol, Lab Biomech & Motor Control, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Silva, Danilo de Oliveira; Barton, Christian; Crossley, Kay] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, La Trobe Sports & Exercise Med Res Ctr LASEM, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Silva, Danilo de Oliveira] La Trobe Univ, Kingsbury Dr, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia								29							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100015	40	Article; Article		
J	Wight, Jeff T.; Grover, Guy B.; Chow, John W.; Borsa, Paul A.; Wikstrom, Erik A.; Tillman, Mark D.								Developing reliable measures of the passive torque-angle relationship for shoulder internal and external rotation: Implications for overhead athletics								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				82	88		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.07.008			SEP 2018	2018	Objectives: 1) Thoroughly assess shoulder flexibility by establishing the passive torque-angle relationship for internal and external rotation with the arm in an overhead athletics position (abducted 90 degrees) and 2) test the reliability of four passive torque-angle measures. Design: Reliability study. Setting: Data were collected in a university biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Bilateral shoulder flexibility of 15 male college students (20.7 +/- 1.1 y) was evaluated twice in two sessions over 7-10 days. Main outcome measures: For both ER and IR, reliability was assessed bilaterally (intra-session, inter session, and inter-tester) for the traditional range of motion measure and three novel kinetic measures: torque at end ROM, resistance onset angle, rotational stiffness. This resulted in 48 total assessments. Results: Thirty-four assessments had good to excellent reliability (ICC >= 0.8), 10 had fair reliability (0.7 <= ICC < 0.8), and 4 had poor reliability (ICC< 0.7). Three of the four flexibility measures had a good overall ICC score: ROM (0.83), torque at end ROM (0.84), and resistance onset angle (0.81). The fourth, stiffness, had a fair overall reliability score (0.74). Conclusions: The passive torque-angle measures should be assimilated into clinical and research settings to determine the relevance to injury, rehabilitation, and performance. (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Wight, Jeff T.] Jacksonville Univ, Brooks Rehabil Coll Healthcare Sci, 2800 Univ Blvd North, Jacksonville, FL 32211 USA; [Grover, Guy B.] Regenerat Technol Inc, 11621 Res Circle, Alachua, FL 32615 USA; [Chow, John W.] Methodist Rehabil Ctr, Ctr Neurosci & Neurol Recovery, 1350 East Woodrow Wilson, Jackson, MS 39216 USA; [Borsa, Paul A.] Univ Florida, Appl Physiol & Kinesiol, 1864 Stadium Rd,Room 100, Gainesville, FL USA; [Wikstrom, Erik A.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, 311 Woollen Gym, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Tillman, Mark D.] Kennesaw State Univ, WellStar Coll Hlth & Human Serv, 1000 Chastain Rd, Kennesaw, GA 30144 USA; [Wight, Jeff T.] Jacksonville Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Jacksonville, FL 32211 USA								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100014	49	Article; Article		
J	Netto, Walter Ansanello; Zanca, Gisele Garcia; Saccol, Michele Forgiarini; Assan Zatiti, Salomao Chade; Mattiello, Stela Marcia								Scapular muscles weakness in subjects with traumatic anterior glenohumeral instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				76	81		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.07.003			SEP 2018	2018	Objective: To investigate possible alterations on scapular muscle strength in subjects with traumatic anterior glenohumeral instability. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory setting. Participants: Fifty-two subjects of both sexes: 26 healthy and 26 with traumatic anterior glenohumeral instability. Main outcome measures: Subjects performed maximal isometric and concentric isokinetic contractions of shoulder protraction and retraction in scapular and sagittal planes, at slow (12.2 cm/s) and fast (36.6 cm/s) speeds. Results: Subjects with glenohumeral instability presented lower peak force of protraction and retraction during isometric and fast speed tests in the scapular plane; and of isometric protraction in the sagittal plane. Conclusions: People with traumatic anterior glenohumeral instability present muscle weakness of scapular protractors and retractors. Considering the importance of the scapulothoracic muscles for the dynamic stability of the glenohumeral joint, strengthening of these muscles is recommended for rehabilitation of traumatic anterior glenohumeral instability. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Netto, Walter Ansanello; Zanca, Gisele Garcia; Mattiello, Stela Marcia] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Phys Therapy, Rodovia Washington Luis,Km 235, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Saccol, Michele Forgiarini] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Dept Phys Therapy, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Assan Zatiti, Salomao Chade] Hosp Especializado Ribeirao Preto, Dept Med, Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Mattiello, Stela Marcia] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Phys Therapy, Rodovia Washington Luis,Km 235, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100013	42	Article; Article		
J	Read, Paul J.; Oliver, Jon L.; Myer, Gregory D.; De Ste Croix, Mark B. A.; Belshaw, Angus; Lloyd, Rhodri S.								Altered landing mechanics are shown by male youth soccer players at different stages of maturation								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				48	53		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.07.001			SEP 2018	2018	Objectives: Examine the effects of maturation on single leg jumping performance in elite male youth soccer players. Design: Cross sectional. Setting: Academy soccer clubs. Participants: 347 male youth players classified as either pre, circa or post-peak height velocity (PHV). Main outcome measures: Single leg countermovement jump (SLCMJ) height, peak vertical landing forces (pVGRF), knee valgus and trunk side flexion. Results: Vertical jump height and absolute pVGRF increased with each stage of maturation (p < 0.001; d = 0.85-2.35). Relative to body weight, significantly higher landing forces were recorded on the left leg in circa versus post-PHV players (p < 0.05; d = 0.40). Knee valgus reduced with maturation but the only notable between-group differences were shown in post-PHV players (p < 0.05; d = 0.67); however, greater ipsilateral lateral trunk flexion angles was also present and these differences were significantly increased relative to circa-PHV players (p <0.05; d = 0.85). Conclusion: Periods of rapid growth are associated with landing kinetics which may heighten injury risk. While reductions in knee valgus were displayed with maturation; a compensatory strategy of greater trunk lateral flexion was evident in post-PHV players and this may increase the risk of injury. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Read, Paul J.] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Read, Paul J.; Oliver, Jon L.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport, Youth Phys Dev Unit, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.] AUT Univ, Sport Performance Res Inst, New Zealand SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [De Ste Croix, Mark B. A.] Univ Gloucestershire, Sch Sport & Exercise, Gloucester, England; [Myer, Gregory D.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Div Sports Med, SPORT Ctr, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Cincinnati, Dept Pediat, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Cincinnati, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Michell Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Belshaw, Angus] St Marys Univ, Sch Sports Hlth & Appl Sci, London, England; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Bangor, Gwynedd, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Bangor, Gwynedd, Wales; [Read, Paul J.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport, Youth Phys Dev Unit, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales								29							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100009	40	Article; Article		
J	Dingenen, Bart; Barton, Christian; Janssen, Tessa; Benoit, Anke; Malliaras, Peter								Test-retest reliability of two-dimensional video analysis during running								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				40	47		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.06.009			SEP 2018	2018	Objectives: To examine test-retest reliability of two-dimensional measured frontal and sagittal plane kinematics during running, and to determine how many steps to include to reach and maintain a stable mean. Design: Reliability study. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: Twenty-one recreational runners. Main outcome measures: Lateral trunk position, contralateral pelvic drop, femoral adduction, hip adduction, knee flexion and ankle dorsiflexion during midstance, and foot and tibia inclination at initial contact were measured with two-dimensional video analysis during running for 10 consecutive steps for both legs. All participants were tested twice one week apart. A sequential estimation method was used to determine the number of steps needed to reach a stable mean. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) and smallest detectable differences (SDD) were calculated. Results: The minimal number of steps was 6.3 +/- 0.3. Lateral trunk position, femoral adduction and foot inclination showed excellent reliability (ICC 0.90-0.99; SDD 1.3 degrees-2.3 degrees). Tibia inclination and ankle dorsiflexion showed good to excellent reliability (ICC 0.73-0.92; SDD 2.2 degrees-4.8 degrees). Hip adduction and knee flexion showed good reliability (ICC 0.82-0.89; SDD 2.3 degrees-3.8 degrees). Contralateral pelvic drop showed moderate to good reliability (ICC 0.59-0.77; SDD 2.7 degrees-2.8 degrees). Conclusion: Two-dimensional video analysis is reliable to assess running kinematics on different days. The mean of at least 7 steps should be included. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dingenen, Bart; Janssen, Tessa; Benoit, Anke] UHasselt, Fac Med & Life Sci, Biomed Res Inst, Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium; [Barton, Christian] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian; Malliaras, Peter] Complete Sports Care, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Barton, Christian] Univ Melbourne, St Vincents Hosp, Dept Surg, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Malliaras, Peter] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Sch Primary & Allied Hlth Care, Dept Physiotherapy, Clayton, Vic, Australia; [Dingenen, Bart] UHasselt, Fac Med & Life Sci, Biomed Res Inst, Rehabil Res Ctr, Diepenbeek, Belgium								64							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100008	47	Article; Article		
J	Yeomans, Caithriona; Comyns, Thomas M.; Cahalan, Roisin; Warrington, Giles D.; Harrison, Andrew J.; Hayes, Kevin; Lyons, Mark; Campbell, Mark J.; Kenny, Ian C.								Current injury monitoring and player education practices in Irish amateur rugby union								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				27	32		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.06.008			SEP 2018	2018	Objectives: To ascertain current injury surveillance and player education practices in Irish amateur rugby union. Design: Cross-sectional survey. Setting: Amateur rugby clubs in Ireland. Participants: Medical professionals and rugby coaches of the top 58 amateur rugby clubs in Ireland. Main outcome measures: The survey investigated the current injury and training load monitoring practices in operation in Irish amateur rugby. It also explored whether player education sessions regarding injury prevention and concussion recognition and management were conducted in these clubs. Results: Forty-four clubs completed the survey, giving an overall response rate of 76%. Ninety-one percent of the responding clubs monitored injuries. Sixty-four percent of these clubs operated return to play protocols for all injuries, while 36% operated return to play protocols for concussion only. Injury prevention education was conducted by 71% of these clubs and 82% educated players on concussion recognition and management. Conclusions: Implementing effective injury monitoring strategies in both amateur and professional sport settings may aid in minimizing injury risk. In Ireland, 91% of the responding clubs monitored injuries and 71% educated players on injury prevention. By implementing one centralized injury surveillance system for Irish amateur rugby, injury trends can be effectively monitored and used to guide prevention strategies. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Yeomans, Caithriona; Comyns, Thomas M.; Warrington, Giles D.; Harrison, Andrew J.; Lyons, Mark; Campbell, Mark J.; Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Castletroy, Limerick, Ireland; [Cahalan, Roisin] Univ Limerick, Sch Allied Hlth, Limerick, Ireland; [Cahalan, Roisin; Warrington, Giles D.; Kenny, Ian C.] Univ Limerick, Hlth Res Inst, Limerick, Ireland; [Hayes, Kevin] Univ Limerick, Dept Math & Stat, Limerick, Ireland; [Campbell, Mark J.] Univ Limerick, Irish Software Res Ctr, Lero, Limerick, Ireland; [Yeomans, Caithriona] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Castletroy, Limerick, Ireland								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100006	38	Article; Article		
J	Mayes, Susan; Ferris, April-Rose; Smith, Peter; Cook, Jill								Obturator externus was larger, while obturator internus size was similar in ballet dancers compared to nondancing athletes								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				33				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.06.001			SEP 2018	2018	Objectives: To compare the cross-sectional area (CSA) of hip external rotators, obturator externus (OE) and obturator internus (OI), in ballet dancers and nondancing athletes, and evaluate the relationship between obturator muscle size and hip pain. Design: Case-control study. Setting: Elite ballet and sport. Participants: 33 male and female professional ballet dancers and 33 age and sex-matched athletes. Main outcome measures: CSA's of OE and OI measured on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of one hip. Hip pain was scored with the Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS): HAGOS pain score of 100 was defined as no pain and a score less than 100 was defined as pain. Participants weight and height. Results: Estimated marginal mean CSA of OE was 14% larger in dancers than athletes (p = 0.01, eta p2 = 0.1); the size of 01 was similar (p > 0.05). Men and women in both groups had similar sized 01 and OE. There was no interaction between the estimated marginal mean CSA of either obturator and hip pain. Conclusions: It appears that ballet selectively increases muscle size of OE, but not OI. Obturator size was not related to mild hip pain, as OE and 01 size was similar in dancers and athletes with and without pain. Crown Copyright (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mayes, Susan] Australian Ballet, 2 Kavanagh St, Southbank, Vic 3006, Australia; [Mayes, Susan] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Cook, Jill] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sports & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Ferris, April-Rose] Monash Univ, Fac Med Nursing & Hlth Sci, Frankston, Vic, Australia; [Smith, Peter] MIA East Melbourne Radiol, East Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Mayes, Susan] Australian Ballet, 2 Kavanagh St, Southbank, Vic 3006, Australia								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445981100001	41	Article; Article		
J	Pic, Miguel								Performance and Home Advantage in Handball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			61	71		10.2478/hukin-2018-0007			AUG 2018	2018	The main objective of this research was to delve into the concept of playing handball at home from a classical perspective of previous studies. The emergence of regularities or certain patterns of play can be explained by the location of matches. Through an observational methodology and a nomothetic, monitoring and multidimensional design, thirty-nine European elite handball matches were selected (N = 39). A mixed 'ad hoc' registration system was designed. Records were made of the last three minutes of home and visiting games of which images were available. Two observers with observational methodology experience participated in the study. The quality of the records was dealt with in an intraobserver and interobserver way. Two different techniques were applied for the treatment of the data: a) detection of behavioral patterns by Theme (p < .005) (Magnusson, 2000) and b) Chaid decision trees (p < .05) using SPSSv.24. The results showed the existence of T-patterns according to the location (different T-patterns: home: 1085; away: 1242) of the matches. The categories most involved in effective launches were unveiled. On the other hand, the Chaid model also showed the effect of location (p < .001): home-win (node 9) (n = 149, 69%), away-win (node 10) (n = 15, 16%) in handball. Crossing analysis offered enriched interpretations to advance in the home advantage concept. From this study, guidelines can be drawn that may help handball coaches to build training tasks as differences in behavioral patterns between home or away play in handball were identified. Thus, designing tasks considering a match location has requires specificity.		[Pic, Miguel] Univ La Laguna, Dept Specif Didact, Heraclio Sanchez 43, Tenerife 38204, Spain; [Pic, Miguel] Univ La Laguna, Dept Specif Didact, Heraclio Sanchez 43, Tenerife 38204, Spain								33							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400007	34	Article; Article		
J	Pereira, Lucas A.; Cal Abad, Cesar C.; Kobal, Ronaldo; Kitamura, Katia; Orsi, Rita C.; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Loturco, Irineu								Differences in Speed and Power Capacities Between Female National College Team and National Olympic Team Handball Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			85	94		10.2478/hukin-2018-0009			AUG 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to compare and examine differences in several neuromuscular assessments between female national Olympic team (Rio-2016) and national college team handball players (2015-Gwangju Summer Universiade). Twenty-eight elite female handball players of the national Brazilian Olympic (n = 12) and college (n = 16) teams participated in this study. The Olympic and college athletes performed the following speed-power tests assessing mean propulsive power (MPP) in loaded jump squat (JS) and bench press (BP) exercises, unloaded squat and countermovement jumps (SJ and CMJ), sprint performance over 5-, 10-, and 20-m, and change of direction ability in a standard Zig-zag test and a T-Test. The differences between Olympic and college team performances in all variables were analyzed using the magnitude-based inference. The Olympic group presented likely higher performances in the SJ, CMJ, and MPP JS and very likely higher performances in the MPP BP and T-Test than the college group. The differences in the linear sprint velocity in 5-, 10-, and 20-m tests as well as in the Zig-zag test were all rated as unclear. These findings may have substantial implications for the development of effective strength-power training and testing strategies in elite handball. In addition, coaches and researchers can use these data to create efficient talent identification programs for youth handball players.		[Pereira, Lucas A.; Cal Abad, Cesar C.; Kobal, Ronaldo; Kitamura, Katia; Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Av Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Orsi, Rita C.] Brazilian Handball Confederat, Aracaju, SE, Brazil; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Dept Phys Act Sci, Res Nucleus Hlth Phys Act & Sport, Osorno, Chile; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Av Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400009	29	Article; Article		
J	Wrang, Christian M.; Rossing, Niels N.; Diernaes, Rasmus M.; Hansen, Christoffer G.; Dalgaard-Hansen, Claus; Karbing, Dan S.								Relative Age Effect and the Re-Selection of Danish Male Handball Players for National Teams								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			33	41		10.2478/hukin-2018-0004			AUG 2018	2018	The relationship between the date of birth and expertise in various sports among both elite and youth level athletes is well established, and known as the relative age effect (RAE). However, new results in for example Canadian Hockey and British cricket and rugby have indicated a reversal of RAE among selected talents where the youngest athletes are more likely to remain selected than their older peers. As such, RAE may therefore depend on the age and the level of competition. The purpose of this study was therefore to analyse RAE from the youth to senior national level in a sample of successful Danish male national teams. The sample included 244 players from Danish under-19, under-21 and senior national levels. These players have been part of successful teams, winning 18 medals at 24 youth European and World championships and 8 medals during 12 years at the senior level. The results showed a significant RAE on both youth and national levels. However, RAE was less marked from the under-19 to under-21 and further to the senior national level. Results show that at the national youth level talent selection favours the relatively older players, of whom a larger proportion fails to be re-selected to the senior level compared to their younger peers. RAE appears to play a central and reversing role in the identification and re-selection in Danish male handball. The results also show that the presence of both a constant and constituent year structure affects RAE, even when introduced at late adolescence.		[Wrang, Christian M.; Rossing, Niels N.; Diernaes, Rasmus M.; Hansen, Christoffer G.; Karbing, Dan S.] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Fredrik Bajers Vej 7 E2, DK-9220 Aalborg, Denmark; [Dalgaard-Hansen, Claus] Danish Handball Federat, Natl Coach Natl Youth Teams, Brondby, Denmark; [Rossing, Niels N.] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Fredrik Bajers Vej 7 E2, DK-9220 Aalborg, Denmark								43							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400004	28	Article; Article		
J	Gonosova, Zuzana; Stastny, Petr; Belka, Jan; Bizovska, Lucia; Lehnert, Michal								Muscle Strength Variations of Knee Joint Muscles in Elite Female Handball Players after Pre-Season Conditioning								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			105	115		10.2478/hukin-2018-0011			AUG 2018	2018	Monitoring seasonal variations in strength performance and the relative risk of injury indicators related to strength of hamstring (H) and quadriceps (Q) in female elite athletes is beneficial for the training process. The aim of this study was to examine and compare the level of muscle strength, the conventional ratio (HCONC/QCONC) as well as two functional and strength ratios reflecting the movement of knee extension (HECC/QCONC) and flexion (HCONC/QECC), and the bilateral percentage strength deficit (BSD) in elite female handball players. The concentric and eccentric isokinetic peak torque was measured at an angular velocity of 60 degrees/s on three occasions (in-season cessation, 4 weeks of rest followed by 4 weeks of individual conditioning and 6 weeks of group conditioning) in eleven female handball players (age: 23.1 +/- 3.5 years, body height: 1.73 +/- 0.6 m). According to ANOVA results, the BSD of H muscles in the concentric mode decreased between the in-season cessation and the end of the pre-season, and HCONC/QCONC increased at the beginning of the pre-season and at the end of the pre-season in comparison with in-season cessation measurement. The effect size analyses showed that the off-season rest followed by 10 weeks of the conditioning programme increased Q and H strength in comparison with the previous season with a large effect. Coaches should include progressive conditioning in the pre-season phase to decrease the bilateral strength deficit and to support further conditioning development.		[Gonosova, Zuzana; Belka, Jan; Bizovska, Lucia; Lehnert, Michal] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Fac Phys Culture, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Jose Martiho 31, Prague 16252 6, Czech Republic; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Jose Martiho 31, Prague 16252 6, Czech Republic								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400011	34	Article; Article		
J	Ferragut, Carmen; Vila, Helena; Arturo Abraldes, Jose; Manchado, Carmen								Influence of Physical Aspects and Throwing Velocity in Opposition Situations in Top-Elite and Elite Female Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			23	32		10.2478/hukin-2018-0003			AUG 2018	2018	The relationship between anthropometric and physical characteristics of female handball players and throwing velocity is considered an important factor in handball performance. The aim of this study was to examine key differences in anthropometric and fitness characteristics between top elite and elite female players competing in the first Spanish handball league. A total of 89 players from the first Spanish handball league were divided into two groups, top elite (38) and elite (51) players, and assessed for anthropometric and fitness characteristics (throwing velocity, vertical jump and hand grip strength). A Student's t-test was used to determine whether a statistically significant difference between the two different levels of play occurred. Significant differences were found in age, body height, body mass, arm span, muscle mass, different girths (tensed and flexed arm, forearm, wrist, ankle), dominant hand width and length, different breadths (biacromial, bitrochanteric, bistyloid breadth and biepicondylar humerus) and fitness characteristics (hand grip strength and throwing velocity for different positions). Top elite players compared to elite players showed differences in anthropometric characteristics which were mainly located in the upper limbs and mostly were non-modifiable aspects by training. Furthermore, the best players were able to maintain a high throwing velocity in different tactical situations.		[Ferragut, Carmen] Univ Alcala, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Alcala De Henares, Spain; [Vila, Helena] Univ Vigo, Dept Special Didact, Vigo, Spain; [Arturo Abraldes, Jose] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Manchado, Carmen] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Alicante, Spain; [Ferragut, Carmen] Univ Alicante, Carretera San Vicente del Raspeig S-N, San Vicente Del Raspeig 03690, Spain								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400003	45	Article; Article		
J	Pavlovic, Ljubomir; Stojiljkovic, Nenad; Aksovic, Nikola; Stojanovic, Emilija; Valdevit, Zoran; Scanlan, Aaron T.; Milanovic, Zoran								Diurnal Variations in Physical Performance: Are There Morning- to-Evening Differences in Elite Male Handball Players?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			117	126		10.2478/hukin-2018-0012			AUG 2018	2018	The purposes of this study were to determine: 1) morning-to-evening differences in physical performance with and without a ball; and 2) associations between sleep outcomes (duration and quality) and physical performance in handball players. Sixteen elite, male handball players (25.4 +/- 5.8 yr, 94.0 +/- 7.4 kg, 193.5 +/- 7.5 cm) completed physical performance tests without a ball (a zig-zag test assessing closed-skill agility, linear sprints, and countermovement (CMJ) and squat jumps) and with a ball (a zig-zag test and linear sprints) in the morning and evening. In addition, sleep quality and quantity during the night before testing were obtained using self-reported measures. Superior physical performance was evident in all tests during the evening compared to the morning hours (p < 0.003). Specifically, jump height was moderately (effect size (ES) = 0.73 to 1.02) higher during the evening. Similarly, moderate (ES = 1.17) and large (ES = 1.67) improvements in zig-zag test performance were apparent during the evening with and without the ball, respectively. Also, large to very large (ES = 1.29 to 2.09) increases in sprint performance with and without the ball were evident in the evening. No significant correlations (p > 0.05) were apparent between sleep duration and quality and physical performance in both the morning and evening sessions. Diurnal variations in physical performance were apparent in elite male handball players with enhanced performance with and without the ball in the evening compared to morning hours. These findings indicate that morning-to-evening differences in physical performance should be considered when developing conditioning plans or preparing for competition in handball.		[Pavlovic, Ljubomir; Stojiljkovic, Nenad; Aksovic, Nikola; Stojanovic, Emilija; Milanovic, Zoran] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Carnojeviceva 10a, Nish 18000, Serbia; [Valdevit, Zoran] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Belgrade, Serbia; [Scanlan, Aaron T.] Cent Queensland Univ, Human Exercise & Training Lab, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Scanlan, Aaron T.] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Milanovic, Zoran] Inst Kinesiol Res, Sci & Res Ctr Koper, Koper, Slovenia; [Milanovic, Zoran] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Carnojeviceva 10a, Nish 18000, Serbia								27							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400012	37	Article; Article		
J	Spieszny, Michal; Zubik, Mateusz								Modification of Strength Training Programs in Handball Players and its Influence on Power During the Competitive Period								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			149	160		10.2478/hukin-2018-0015			AUG 2018	2018	A high level of muscle power is necessary for the effective use of technique during handball competitions. The presented research concentrated on comparing the effectiveness of two training modes directed towards the development of muscle power - plyometric and traditional strength training. Furthermore, we evaluated whether resistance training performed twice a week was sufficient to guarantee an increase in muscle power of handball players. We also investigated whether strength training designed according to the "waving" model (one training session per week oriented towards the development of maximal strength and one towards the development of power) was sufficient to increase muscle power in handball players. The study included 28 professional handball players who were divided into 3 groups: Group 1 subjected to additional strength training (8 individuals), Group 2 subjected to traditional plyometric training (8 individuals) and Group 3 following standard training (12 individuals). Research was conducted at the beginning and at the end of the 1st round of competitions and consisted of the following measurements: CMJ (counter-movement jump) and SJ (squat jump), a 10-s trial on a cycle-ergometer and ball-throwing velocity. Analysis of the results showed that both the plyometric and strength training programs induced a statistically significant increase in jumping height and generated power during the CMJ. The group subjected to additional strength training achieved greater increases in CMJ power than the group carrying out plyometric training, which in case of the CMJ peak power turned out to be statistically significant (p < 0.05). Different results were obtained when studying changes in the flight speed of the thrown ball; the group undergoing plyometric training registered minor increases (significant in the standing throw ), and there were decreases in the flight speed of the thrown ball (significant in the leaning back throw) in the group following the traditional strength training program.		[Spieszny, Michal] Univ Phys Educ Cracow, Inst Sports, Krakow, Poland; [Zubik, Mateusz] AGH Univ Sci & Technol, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Krakow, Poland; [Zubik, Mateusz] AGH Univ Sci & Technol, Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Krakow, Poland								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400015	42	Article; Article		
J	Fasold, Frowin; Redlich, Dennis								Foul or no Foul? Effects of Permitted Fouls on the Defence Performance in Team Handball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			53	59		10.2478/hukin-2018-0006			AUG 2018	2018	Attacking phases in team handball are highly dynamic, characterized by fast movements and a high frequency of fast passes with the aim to score a goal. Consequently, the opposing/defending team tries to prevent successful offensive actions by restraining the offensive opportunities and the probabilities of scoring a goal. According to the rules, defensive players are allowed to use body contact (e.g. with bent arms) to get in and keep their optimal defending position. If such a contact is not in line with the rules (e.g. clutching or pushing) and results in a turnover of ball possession, a foul is called and a free-throw awarded. However, there is a lack of research answering the question if a permitted foul (without personal sanction) is an effective way to increase the probability of defending the own goal successfully, because afterwards the attacking team keeps possession of the ball. Thus, we investigated 1052 attacking phases during games at the elite level to verify whether fouls committed by a defender influenced successful attacking (goal vs. no goal). It was found that when the attack was interrupted by a permitted foul, 50.60% of the attacks ended with a goal. Yet, when no foul was committed, only 47.09% of the attacks ended with a goal, however, the analysis revealed that this difference was not significant. Therefore, we concluded that neither a strategy of stopping offensive actions by body contact nor avoiding fouls and focusing only on intercepting the ball were favourable solutions in successful defending in team handball. It seems effective to implement a defence strategy with clearly defined fouling zones and situations, to deal with the tactical possibility of permitted fouls in handball. This idea and further considerations are discussed for sports practice.		[Fasold, Frowin; Redlich, Dennis] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Training & Sports Informat, Dept Cognit & Team Racket Sport Res, Cologne, Germany; [Fasold, Frowin] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Exercise Sci & Sports Informat, Dept Cognit & Team Racket Sport Res, Mungersdorf 6, D-50933 Cologne, Germany								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400006	14	Article; Article		
J	Bjorndal, Christian Thue; Luteberget, Live Steinnes; Holm, Simen								The Relationship Between Early and Senior Level Participation in International Women's and Men's Handball								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				63	1			73	84		10.2478/hukin-2018-0008			AUG 2018	2018	International competitions at the youth elite level have become an important part of attempts to identify, foster and develop sporting talent. However, sports science scholars disagree strongly about the value and importance of such competitions because little is known about the relationship between early performance, at both the team and individual level, and later success in adult elite sports. The first aim of this study was therefore to explore the relationship between international match experience at the youth international team level and subsequent match experience at the junior and the senior international team levels. The second aim of this study was to explore the relationship between youth national team results and subsequent junior and senior national team results in international competitions. The individual-level analysis was based on official match participation statistics of all Norwegian handball players with either youth, junior and/or senior national team experience (n = 657) between the years 1993 and 2017. The team level analysis was based on team result rankings from the handball European and World Championships at the youth, junior and senior national team levels during this period. Statistical analysis at the individual level showed a significant difference between those handball players who did and did not have international match exposure at the youth and junior levels, and the number of matches they played at the senior international team level. No to weak correlations were found between the number of matches played at the youth, junior and senior international team levels. Statistical analysis at the team level showed a strong correlation between result rankings at the youth, junior and senior international team levels. Collectively, these findings suggest that having youth and junior international experience is strongly associated with the number of matches played at the senior international level. However, the number of matches played at the youth and junior international levels does not appear to determine success or predict which players will or will not achieve success at the senior international level.		[Bjorndal, Christian Thue; Holm, Simen] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Coaching & Psychol, Sognsveien 220, N-0863 Oslo, Norway; [Luteberget, Live Steinnes] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Phys Performance, Oslo, Norway; [Bjorndal, Christian Thue] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Coaching & Psychol, Sognsveien 220, N-0863 Oslo, Norway								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000445547400008	36	Article; Article		
J	Schoenfeld, Brad; Grgic, Jozo								Evidence-Based Guidelines for Resistance Training Volume to Maximize Muscle Hypertrophy								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	4			107	112		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000363			AUG 2018	2018	The manipulation of resistance training (RT) variables is widely considered an essential strategy to maximize muscular adaptations. One variable that has received substantial attention in this regard is RT volume. This article provides evidence-based guidelines as to volume when creating RT programs designed to maximize muscle hypertrophy.		[Schoenfeld, Brad] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY 10468 USA; [Grgic, Jozo] Victoria Univ, ISEAL, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Schoenfeld, Brad] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY 10468 USA								58							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257600011	34	Article; Article		
J	Tavares, Francisco; Walker, Owen; Healey, Phil; Smith, Tiaki Brett; Driller, Matthew								Practical Applications of Water Immersion Recovery Modalities for Team Sports								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	4			48	60		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000380			AUG 2018	2018	Cold therapies are widely used modalities to enhance recovery within an athletic population in addition to other essential components of recovery. Although the benefits of cold therapies are documented in the scientific literature, recent research has demonstrated some potential harmful effects of such modalities as well as individual responses to similar protocols. This article reviews the current knowledge on the different protocol characteristics and individual factors that may contribute to responses of cold therapies, providing practical recommendations based on external factors, such as the phase of the season, the density of the weekly schedule, and the athletes' goals.		[Tavares, Francisco; Healey, Phil] Glasgow Warriors, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Tavares, Francisco; Smith, Tiaki Brett; Driller, Matthew] Univ Waikato, Fac Hlth Sport & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Walker, Owen] Sci Sport, Dartmouth, England; [Smith, Tiaki Brett] Chiefs Rugby Club, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Tavares, Francisco] Glasgow Warriors, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Tavares, Francisco] Univ Waikato, Fac Hlth Sport & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257600006	82	Article; Article		
J	McMahon, John J.; Suchomel, Timothy J.; Lake, Jason P.; Comfort, Paul								Understanding the Key Phases of the Countermovement Jump Force-Time Curve								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	4			96	106		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000375			AUG 2018	2018	The countermovement jump (CMJ) test is commonly conducted to assess neuromuscular function and is being increasingly performed using force platforms. Comprehensive insight into athletes' neuromuscular function can be gained through detailed analyses of force-time curves throughout specific phases of the CMJ, beyond jump height alone. Confusingly, however, many different terms and methods have been used to describe the different phases of the CMJ. This article describes how 6 key phases of the CMJ (weighing, unweighting, braking, propulsion, flight, and landing) can be derived from force-time records to facilitate researchers' and practitioners' understanding and application to their own practice.		[McMahon, John J.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Sports Biomech & Strength & Conditioning, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Strength & Conditioning, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, MSc Strength & Conditioning, Salford, Greater Manches, England; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI USA; [Lake, Jason P.] Univ Chichester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Sport & Exercise Biomech, Chichester, W Sussex, England; [Lake, Jason P.] Univ Chichester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, MSc Strength & Conditioning, Chichester, W Sussex, England; [McMahon, John J.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Sports Biomech & Strength & Conditioning, Salford, Greater Manches, England								358							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257600010	34	Article; Article		
J	Halperin, Israel; Wulf, Gabriele; Vigotsky, Andrew D.; Schoenfeld, Brad J.; Behm, David G.								Autonomy: A Missing Ingredient of a Successful Program?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	4			18	25		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000383			AUG 2018	2018	Supporting an athlete's need for autonomy by allowing him/her to make choices concerning training variables can be an effective coaching strategy by strength and conditioning (S&C) professionals. However, this coaching strategy has received little attention in the S&C field despite being extensively studied in the fields of sport psychology and motor learning. Autonomy support has been shown to improve motor learning, performance, and motivation. In this review, the positive effects of providing choices are discussed as they apply to athletes and S&C professionals. Moreover, possible mechanisms for these effects are described and practical recommendations are provided.		[Halperin, Israel; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Wulf, Gabriele] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Vigotsky, Andrew D.] Northwestern Univ, Dept Biomed Engn, Evanston, IL 60208 USA; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY Lehman Coll, Hlth Sci Dept, Bronx, NY USA; [Halperin, Israel] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada								27							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257600003	55	Article; Article		
J	Piper, Timothy J.; Brees, Taryn N.; Helling, Keith								The Turkish Row								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	4			113	118		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000349			AUG 2018	2018	This column provides a detailed description and figures for properly performing the turkish row. This exercise challenges torso and upper-body muscular strength, stability, and mobility. It is an excellent exercise for those struggling with learning or performing the turkish get-up exercise. For a video abstract of this article, see supplemental digital content 1, (see video, http://links.lww.com/scj/a220).		[Piper, Timothy J.; Brees, Taryn N.; Helling, Keith] Western Illinois Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Macomb, IL 61455 USA; [Piper, Timothy J.] Western Illinois Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Macomb, IL 61455 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257600012	10	Article; Article		
J	Mullane, Michael; Turner, Anthony; Bishop, Chris								Strength and Conditioning Considerations for Hurling: An Amateur Gaelic Games Sport								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	4			72	84		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000381			AUG 2018	2018	Hurling is a high intensity, intermittent, amateur gaelic games sport. A rise in the number of studies have been conducted on the biomechanical, physiological, and injury epidemiology characteristics of hurling athletes, and this review provides the strength and conditioning professional with guidelines on key parameters relating to the needs analysis of hurling. A proposed fitness testing battery and program design for the reduction of injuries and enhanced physical performance is provided.		[Mullane, Michael] Univ East London, London, England; [Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Postgrad Programmes Sport, London, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257600008	61	Article; Article		
J	Kanwar, Kiran D.; Mann, Mark D.								Effects of a golf swing intervention on senior golfers' ball striking and motivation to play golf								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			607	615		10.1177/1747954118764179			AUG 2018	2018	Several golf swing movements have been correlated with the production of club speed in skilled golfers. However, less skilled golfers, such as senior golfers, may not be capable of many of those movements. One golf swingMinimalist Golf Swingreduces the downswing range of motion through which a golfer's body must move to reach the impact positions seen in skilled golfers. The purpose of this study was to assess whether the MGS could improve senior golfers' ball flight and consistency, and increase their motivation to play golf. Twenty-two seniors (16 males, 6 females), aged 54-81, participated in an 11-session study comprising pretest, intervention, and posttest sessions. During the test sessions, participants hit 20 shots with each of their own 6-iron and driver clubs. Ball movement immediately after impact was measured using a camera-based ball launch monitor. Participants' motivation to play golf before and after the intervention was assessed using the Sports Motivation Scale II. A mixed effects model was used for the statistical analysis of this repeated measures study, in which participants served as their own controls. Statistically significant per-session results were an increase in the ball's speed (6-iron and driver) and trajectory (6-iron), and a change in direction (both clubs) from left to slightly right (for right handed golfers). Consistency of ball flight, total motivation and intrinsic motivation increased slightly post-intervention, while amotivation decreased, none significantly. Therefore, some senior golfers can improve ball flight, consistency, and motivation to play golf after six MGS training sessions.		[Kanwar, Kiran D.; Mann, Mark D.] Texas Womans Univ, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Kanwar, Kiran D.] Texas Womans Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Denton, TX 76204 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000014	23	Article; Article		
J	Driggers, Austin R.; Sato, Kimitake								The effects of vertically oriented resistance training on golf drive performance in collegiate golfers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			598	606		10.1177/1747954117743374			AUG 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of vertically oriented resistance training on golf driving performance. Ten Division-I collegiate golfers completed two resistance training sessions per week for 10 weeks during the fall tournament season. Pre- and post-training assessments of strength-power and golf performance were compared. To assess strength-power, jump height, peak force, and peak power were measured from static and countermovement vertical jumps; peak force and rate of force development from 0 to 250 ms were measured from an isometric mid-thigh pull. Golf performance was assessed in terms of ball launch speed, spin rate, carry yardage, and total yardage, averaged from five shots using a driver. Following training, all measures of strength-power improved, with countermovement jump peak power improving significantly (p < 0.00625). The golf performance assessment indicated significant increases (p < 0.0125) in ball speed, carry yardage, and total yardage. These results suggest that vertically oriented resistance training can improve golf driving performance.		[Driggers, Austin R.] Kansas City Royals Baseball Club, Kansas City, KS USA; [Sato, Kimitake] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Sport Exercise Recreat & Kinesiol, Johnson City, TN USA; [Driggers, Austin R.] Kansas City Royals, One Royal Way, Kansas City, MO 64129 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000013	30	Article; Article		
J	Fisher, Leslee A.; Shigeno, Terilyn C.; Bejar, Matthew P.; Larsen, Leslie K.; Gearity, Brian								Caring practices among US National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I female and male assistant coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			471	484		10.1177/1747954117743114			AUG 2018	2018	The focus of the current study was on the ways that U.S. National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I female and male assistant coaches defined and implemented care with their student-athletes. Twenty-three coaches (14 female, 9 male) from nine different sports (baseball, basketball, golf, rowing, softball, swimming, tennis, track and field/cross-country, and volleyball) agreed to participate in a semi-structured interview. The data were analyzed using Consensual Qualitative Research by a team of four researchers as well as an external auditor. Results indicated that care was encompassed within 12 total categories and four major domains: (a) development of care, (b) definitions of care, (c) manifestations of care, and (d) factors influencing care. Results are presented using direct quotes from assistant coaches in the form of core ideas to highlight the domains and categories. Throughout the discussion, the findings are linked to previous research on care and the broader U.S. National Collegiate Athletic Association coaching context. In addition, directions for future research are also put forth.		[Fisher, Leslee A.; Shigeno, Terilyn C.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TN USA; [Bejar, Matthew P.] Mt Mercy Univ, Dept Psychol Sociol Social Work & Int Studies, Cedar Rapids, IA USA; [Larsen, Leslie K.] Calif State Univ Sacramento, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Sacramento, CA 95819 USA; [Gearity, Brian] Univ Denver, Grad Sch Profess Psychol, Denver, CO USA; [Fisher, Leslee A.] Univ Tennessee, 336 HPER Bldg, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000002	30	Article; Article		
J	Spink, Kevin S.; McLaren, Colin D.; Ulvick, Jocelyn D.								Groupness, cohesion, and intention to return to sport: A study of intact youth teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			545	551		10.1177/1747954117732725			AUG 2018	2018	The positive benefits for youth participating in sport have been well documented. Yet, keeping athletes returning to sport has been a concern. While various factors have been examined to explain this attrition, facets of the sport group experience have started to emerge. From a group perspective, it has been established that athlete intentions to return to a sport team the following season are positively associated with perceived team cohesion. While cohesion is a key group construct, other group factors are worthy of examination. The purpose of the current study was to build upon the research base by examining whether the relationship between cohesion and intention to return would be moderated by another group factor-the level of groupness ascribed to the team. At the end of a competitive season, youth soccer athletes (N=156) completed measures of task cohesion, groupness, and intention to return to their team in the future. Results revealed that the task cohesion-intention to return relationship was significantly moderated by groupness, p =.03. Simple slopes analysis revealed that the strongest relationship between task cohesion and intention to return occurred under conditions of lower groupness. These initial results indicated that intention to return was highest when the team was perceived as higher in task cohesion, regardless of groupness perceptions. However, when the team was perceived to be lower in task cohesion, those who perceived their team as being more like a group indicated a greater willingness to return to the team in the future.		[Spink, Kevin S.; McLaren, Colin D.; Ulvick, Jocelyn D.] Univ Saskatchewan, Coll Kinesiol, 87 Campus Dr, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5B2, Canada; [Spink, Kevin S.] Univ Saskatchewan, Coll Kinesiol, 87 Campus Dr, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5B2, Canada								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000008	31	Article; Article		
J	Zuccolotto, Paola; Manisera, Marica; Sandri, Marco								Big data analytics for modeling scoring probability in basketball: The effect of shooting under high-pressure conditions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			569	589		10.1177/1747954117737492			AUG 2018	2018	In this paper, we analyze the shooting performance of basketball players by examining the factors that may generate high-pressure game situations. Using play-by-play data from the Italian "Serie A2" Championship 2015/2016 to build the model, we validate the main results using data from the Olympic Basketball Tournament "Rio 2016" to determine whether the relationships we identified can be confirmed using data from players at a very different professional level. After a preliminary exploratory analysis, we (1) develop a multivariate model based on the Classification and Regression Tree algorithm in order to investigate how selected high-pressure situations, jointly considered, affect scoring probability and then propose new shooting performance measures; (2) investigate players' personal reactions to selected high-pressure game situations by introducing additional new measures, improving the indices currently used to measure shooting performance. The results are interesting and easy to interpret with the aid of some insightful graphical representations. Our approach can be exploited by both scouts and coaches to understand important player characteristics and, ultimately, to measure and enhance a team's performance.		[Zuccolotto, Paola; Manisera, Marica] Univ Brescia, Dept Econ & Management, Cda S Chiara 50, I-25125 Brescia, Italy; [Sandri, Marco] Univ Brescia, DMS StatLab, Brescia, Italy; [Manisera, Marica] Univ Brescia, Dept Econ & Management, Cda S Chiara 50, I-25125 Brescia, Italy								45							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000011	41	Article; Article		
J	Fasting, Kari; Sand, Trond S.; Sisjord, Mari K.								Coach-athlete sexual relationships: Coaches' opinions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			463	470		10.1177/1747954117753807			AUG 2018	2018	The focus of this article is the opinions and attitudes towards coach-athlete sexual relationships presented through the voices of female (n=24) and male (n=12) elite-level coaches in Norway. The results are based on in-depth interviews and the data were developed around the following question: There are examples of athletes that fall in love with their coach and about sexual relationships between a coach and an athlete-what are your reflections around such coach-athlete relationships? "The coaches found such relationships very problematic and unacceptable. When it occurs, openness, i.e. to talk about it, is important. But the rule of thumb was that the coach-athlete relationship had to come to an end. In their elite-coaching role, these coaches believed it is important to have strict rules and clear boundaries. Furthermore, they should be aware of the power that they have and not exploit it. The results are discussed with respect to the professionalization of the coaching role, and the importance of including ethics in the education of coaches.		[Fasting, Kari; Sand, Trond S.; Sisjord, Mari K.] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Dept Cultural & Social Studies, Box 4014 Ullevaal Stad, N-0806 Oslo, Norway; [Fasting, Kari] Norwegian Sch Sports Sci, Dept Cultural & Social Studies, Box 4014 Ullevaal Stad, N-0806 Oslo, Norway								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000001	32	Article; Article		
J	Martin, Denise; Swanton, Alan; Bradley, Jonathan; McGrath, Denise								The use, integration and perceived value of performance analysis to professional and amateur Irish coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			520	532		10.1177/1747954117753806			AUG 2018	2018	Research into the perceptions, practices and engagement of coaches with performance analysis is fundamental to informing the continued development of the discipline and its practitioners. The aim of this study was to survey a large sample of coaches of varying profiles, regarding their use and integration of performance analysis, to explore its perceived value and barriers to its use. Survey data were analysed from 538 Irish coaches qualified at Level 1 and above (82% male), from 37 sports. A spectrum of coaches' engagement with performance analysis, ranging from no formal performance analysis (49%), to coaches doing their own analysis (coach-as-analyst, 38%) and coaches with analyst-support (13%) was observed. The Level 2 coaching qualification was a key distinguisher between coaches using and not using performance analysis. Significant differences exist between the practices of coaches with and without analyst-support. Coaches with analyst-support are more likely to have regular access to video, spend more time analysing, regularly use performance analysis to inform training and use computerised analysis software. Barriers to the use of performance analysis varied along the spectrum of performance analysis engagement. This research can underpin future developments in coach and analyst education that will optimise the systematic use of PA across all levels of sports performance.		[Martin, Denise] Inst Technol Blanchardstown, Sch Business, Dublin, Ireland; [Martin, Denise; McGrath, Denise] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Swanton, Alan] Sport Ireland Inst, Dublin, Ireland; [Bradley, Jonathan] IT Carlow, Dept Sport Media & Mkt, Carlow, Carlow, Ireland; [Martin, Denise] Inst Technol Blanchardstown, Blanchardstown Rd North, Dublin 15, Ireland								33							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000006	33	Article; Article		
J	Takamatsu, Shohei; Yamaguchi, Yasuo								Effect of coaching behaviors on job satisfaction and organizational commitment: The case of comprehensive community sport clubs in Japan								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			508	519		10.1177/1747954117742652			AUG 2018	2018	Coaches are widely regarded as playing an important role in the development of comprehensive community sport clubs, in terms of meeting the needs of club members and club staff. However, few studies have explored the coaching activities of comprehensive community sport clubs in Japan. This study, therefore, aimed to examine the effect of coaching behaviors in comprehensive community sport clubs on job satisfaction and organizational commitment. One hundred seventy-seven coaches completed questionnaires assessing coaching behaviors in comprehensive community sport clubs, job satisfaction, and organizational commitment. The scale measuring coaching behaviors in comprehensive community sport clubs was comprised of seven factors: (1) manner education, (2) cooperative approach, (3) field management, (4) coaching skills, (5) communication with people outside the club, (6) communication with people inside the club, and (7) safety management. Path analysis with structural equation modeling revealed cooperative approach and field management influenced job satisfaction. The study additionally indicated job satisfaction positively impacted organizational commitment. Furthermore, communication with people inside the club directly influenced on organizational commitment. Thus, it was concluded that creating a sporting environment in which coaches can behave autonomously, as well as providing a space where coaches can communicate with many people, are necessary preconditions to increase job satisfaction and organizational commitment of coaches in comprehensive community sport clubs.		[Takamatsu, Shohei] Kobe Shinwa Womens Univ, Dept Jr Sports Educ, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Takamatsu, Shohei; Yamaguchi, Yasuo] Kobe Univ, Grad Sch Human Dev & Environm, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Takamatsu, Shohei] Kobe Shinwa Womens Univ, Dept Jr Sports Educ, Kita Ku, 7-13-1 Suzurandai Kitamachi, Kobe, Hyogo 6511111, Japan								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000005	67	Article; Article		
J	He, Chao; Trudel, Pierre; Culver, Diane M.								Actual and ideal sources of coaching knowledge of elite Chinese coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			496	507		10.1177/1747954117753727			AUG 2018	2018	Globalization and advances in technology have created a context where knowledge changes and circulates faster than ever. In high-performance sport coaching, coaches increasingly move from country to country to join national teams - becoming migrant coaches'. From a coach development perspective, it becomes relevant to investigate how coaches from different countries learn to coach and what would be their ideal sources of knowledge acquisition. Unfortunately, there is a major gap in the English literature regarding Asian coaches. Thus, a study with Chinese gymnastics (Gym) and rhythmic gymnastics (R-Gym) coaches has been conducted. Eighty coaches completed a questionnaire on their actual and ideal sources of knowledge acquisition; 16 of these were interviewed. Data show that the coaches acquired their knowledge (actual) mainly through 'being an athlete' and 'having a mentor'. Ideally, they would like to have a better balance between these two sources and formal learning situations (courses, seminars, etc.). Another key finding is the barrier resulting from the lack of English knowledge, which is an important limit for Chinese coaches wishing to gather information from abroad, especially through the Internet.		[He, Chao] Jiangsu Second Normal Univ, Dept Sports, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Trudel, Pierre; Culver, Diane M.] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Culver, Diane M.] Univ Ottawa, Fac Hlth Sci, 125 Univ Private, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada								43							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000004	98	Article; Article		
J	Richardson, Ashley K.; Mitchell, Andrew C. S.; Hughes, Gerwyn								The effect of movement variability on putting proficiency during the golf putting stroke								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	4			590	597		10.1177/1747954118768234			AUG 2018	2018	Movement variability has been considered important to execute an effective golf swing yet is comparatively unexplored regarding the golf putt. Movement variability could potentially be important considering the small margins of error between a successful and a missed putt. The aim of this study was to assess whether variability of body segment rotations influence putting performance (ball kinematic measures). Eight golfers (handicap range 0-10) performed a 3.2m level putt wearing retro-reflective markers which were tracked using a three-dimensional motion analysis system sampling at 120Hz. Ball roll kinematics were recorded using Quintic Ball Roll launch monitor. Movement (segment) variability was calculated based on a scalene ellipsoid volume concept and correlated with the coefficient of variation of ball kinematics. Statistical analysis showed no significant relationships between segment variability and putting proficiency. One significant relationship was identified between left forearm variability and horizontal launch angle, but this did not result in deficits in putting success. Results show that performance variability in the backswing and downswing is not related to putting proficiency or the majority of ball roll measures. Differing strategies may exist where certain golfers may have more fluid movement patterns thereby effectively utilising variability of movement. Therefore, golf instructors should consider movement variability when coaching the golf putt.		[Richardson, Ashley K.] Abertay Univ, Sch Social & Hlth Sci, Div Sport & Exercise Sci, Dundee, Scotland; [Mitchell, Andrew C. S.] Univ Bedfordshire, Sch Sport Sci & Phys Act, Fac Educ & Sport, Luton, Beds, England; [Hughes, Gerwyn] Univ San Francisco, Dept Kinesiol, Coll Arts & Sci, San Francisco, CA USA; [Richardson, Ashley K.] Abertay Univ, Bell St, Dundee DD1 1HG, Scotland								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000439955000012	27	Article; Article		
J	Muehlheusser, Gerd; Schneemann, Sandra; Sliwka, Dirk; Wallmeier, Niklas								The Contribution of Managers to Organizational Success: Evidence from German Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	6			786	819		10.1177/1527002516674760			AUG 2018	2018	We study the impact of managers on the success of professional soccer teams using data from the German Bundesliga, where we are exploiting the high turnover rate of managers between teams to disentangle the managers' contributions. Teams employing a manager from the top of the ability distribution gain on average considerably more points than those employing a manager from the bottom. Moreover, estimated abilities have significant predictive power for future performance. Managers also affect teams' playing style. Finally, teams whose manager has been a former professional player perform worse on average compared to managers without a professional player career.		[Muehlheusser, Gerd] Univ Hamburg, Econ, Hamburg, Germany; [Muehlheusser, Gerd; Sliwka, Dirk] IZA, Von Melle Pk 5, D-20146 Hamburg, Germany; [Muehlheusser, Gerd; Sliwka, Dirk] CESifo, Von Melle Pk 5, D-20146 Hamburg, Germany; [Schneemann, Sandra] Bielefeld Univ, Bielefeld, Germany; [Sliwka, Dirk] Univ Cologne, Management, Cologne, Germany; [Wallmeier, Niklas] Univ Hamburg, Von Melle Pk 5, D-20146 Hamburg, Germany; [Muehlheusser, Gerd] Univ Hamburg, Von Melle Pk 5, D-20146 Hamburg, Germany								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000438594500002	25	Article; Article		
J	VanDerwerken, Douglas N.; Rothert, Jacek; Nguelifack, Brice M.								Does the Threat of Suspension Curb Dangerous Behavior in Soccer? A Case Study From the Premier League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	6			759	785		10.1177/1527002516674761			AUG 2018	2018	Using data from the 2011-2012 season of the Premier League, we study empirically and theoretically the impact of soccer suspension rules on the behavior of players and referees. For players facing a potential one-game suspension, being one versus two yellow cards away from the suspension limit results in an approximate 12% reduction in fouling, while for those facing a potential two-game suspension, the reduction is approximately 23%. The probability such players receive a yellow card is also reduced. In addition, we find some evidence of slight referee bias for the home team in the dispensing of penalty cards, but not in the calling of fouls. Finally, we develop a theoretical framework for investigating the effects of suspension rules on the number of fouls committed. Within this framework, we investigate how policy instruments such as referees' propensity to give out yellow cards or their consistency in giving them out affect the impact of suspension rules.		[VanDerwerken, Douglas N.; Nguelifack, Brice M.] US Naval Acad, Dept Math, 589 McNair Rd, Annapolis, MD 21402 USA; [Rothert, Jacek] US Naval Acad, Dept Econ, Annapolis, MD 21402 USA; [VanDerwerken, Douglas N.] US Naval Acad, Dept Math, 589 McNair Rd, Annapolis, MD 21402 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000438594500001	29	Article; Article		
J	Gheidi, Naghmeh; Kernozek, Thomas W.; Willson, John D.; Revak, Andrew; Diers, Keith								Achilles tendon loading during weight bearing exercises								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				260	268		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.007			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: Compare the estimated Achilles tendon (AT) loading using a musculoskeletal model during commonly performed weight bearing therapeutic exercises. Design: Controlled laboratory study. Setting: University biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Eighteen healthy males (Age: 22.1 +/- 1.8 years, height:177.7 +/- 8.4cm, weight = 74.29 +/- 11.3 kg). Main outcome measure(s): AT loading was estimated during eleven exercises: tandem, Romberg, and unilateral standing, unilateral and bilateral heel raising, unilateral and bilateral jump landing, squat, lunge, walking, and running. Kinematic and kinetic data were recorded at 180 Hz and 1800 Hz respectively. These data were then used in a musculoskeletal model to estimate force in the triceps surae. AT cross-sectional images were measured by ultrasound to determine AT stress. A repeated measure multivariate analysis of variance (alpha = 0.05) was used on AT loading variables. Results: Squat and unilateral jump landing were the most different in AT stress. Peak AT stress variables were generally greater during more dynamic, unilateral exercises compared to more static, bilateral exercises. Conclusions: Bilateral, more static exercises resulted in less AT loading and may serve as a progression during the rehabilitation compared to more dynamic, unilateral exercises. (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Gheidi, Naghmeh] Univ Wisconsin La Crosse, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, 161 Mitchell Hall,E0010-1820 Pine St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Gheidi, Naghmeh; Kernozek, Thomas W.; Revak, Andrew; Diers, Keith] Univ Wisconsin La Crosse, La Crosse Inst Movement Sci, Dept Hlth Profess, Phys Therapy Program, La Crosse, WI USA; [Willson, John D.] East Carolina Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Greenville, NC 27858 USA; [Gheidi, Naghmeh] Univ Wisconsin La Crosse, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, 161 Mitchell Hall,E0010-1820 Pine St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300037	43	Article; Article		
J	Andre, Helo-Isa; Carnide, Filomena; Moco, Andreia; Valamatos, Maria-Joao; Ramalho, Fatima; Santos-Rocha, Rita; Veloso, Antonio								Can the calf-raise senior test predict functional fitness in elderly people? A validation study using electromyography, kinematics and strength tests								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				252	259		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.012			JUL 2018	2018	The assessment of the plantar-flexors muscle strength in older adults (OA) is of the utmost importance since they are strongly associated with the performance of fundamental tasks of daily life. The objective was to strengthen the validity of the Calf-Raise-Senior (CRS) test by assessing the biomechanical movement pattern of calf muscles in OA with different levels of functional fitness (FF) and physical activity (PA). Twenty-six OA were assessed with CRS, a FF battery, accelerometry, strength tests, kinematics and electromyography (EMG). OA with the best and worst CRS scores were compared. The association between the scores and EMG pattern of ankle muscles was determined. OA with the best CRS scores presented higher levels of FF, PA, strength, power, speed and range of movement, and a more efficient movement pattern during the test. Subjects who scored more at the CRS test demonstrated the possibility to use a stretch-shortening cycle type of action in the PF muscles to increase power during the movements. OA with different levels of FF can be stratified by the muscular activation pattern of the calf muscles and the scores in CRS test. This study reinforced the validity of CRS for evaluating ankle strength and power in OA. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Andre, Helo-Isa; Carnide, Filomena; Valamatos, Maria-Joao; Ramalho, Fatima; Santos-Rocha, Rita; Veloso, Antonio] Fac Motricidade Humana, Ctr Interdisciplinar Estudo Performance Humana, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal; [Andre, Helo-Isa; Carnide, Filomena; Moco, Andreia; Valamatos, Maria-Joao; Veloso, Antonio] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Dept Desporto & Saude, Lab Biomecan & Morfol Func, Cruz Quebrada, Portugal; [Ramalho, Fatima; Santos-Rocha, Rita] Escola Super Desporto Rio Maior, Inst Politecn Santarem, Rio Maior, Portugal; [Andre, Helo-Isa] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Estrada Costa, P-1499002 Cruz Quebrada, Dafundo, Portugal								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300036	45	Article; Article		
J	Harrison, Kathryn; Thakkar, Bhushan; Kwon, Yong Ung; Crosswell, Gregory; Morgan, Jacqueline; Williams, D. S. Blaise, III								Kinematic predictors of loading during running differ by demographic group								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				221	226		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.019			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate whether previously-determined kinematic predictors of kinetics during running differ between demographic groups. Participants: Young male (n = 13, age = 22 (2) yrs), young female (n = 13, age = 25 (4) yrs), older male (n = 13, age = 50 (4) yrs) and older female (n = 13, age = 52 (3) yrs) runners. Main outcome measures: Sagittal plane kinematics and kinetics were assessed while participants ran at their preferred pace. Linear regression models were developed to predict kinetics in each group using kinematics as independent variables. Results: Step length was positively associated with magnitude of at least one kinetic variable in all groups. Step position was inversely associated with vertical ground reaction force variables in all groups. Step frequency and CoM excursion were also important to all groups, however direction of the associations varied. Foot angle at initial contact was important to all groups except older females. Peak knee flexion was most important to older females, but was not important to any other groups. Conclusion: Optimal parameters for gait analysis of runners may depend on demographics of the individual. This provides insight for clinicians into the most effective evaluation and interventions strategies for different types of runners. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Harrison, Kathryn; Thakkar, Bhushan; Crosswell, Gregory; Morgan, Jacqueline; Williams, D. S. Blaise, III] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Profess, Dept Phys Therapy, 1200 East Broad St,Box 980224, Richmond, VA 23298 USA; [Harrison, Kathryn; Thakkar, Bhushan; Kwon, Yong Ung; Morgan, Jacqueline; Williams, D. S. Blaise, III] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Acad Ctr 500, 1020 West Grace St,Box 843021, Richmond, VA 23284 USA; [Kwon, Yong Ung] Youngstown State Univ, Beeghly Ctr 307G, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Sci, 1 Univ Plaza, Youngstown, OH 44555 USA; [Williams, D. S. Blaise, III] Nike INC, 1 Boweman Dr, Beaverton, OR 97005 USA; [Harrison, Kathryn] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Profess, Dept Phys Therapy, 1200 East Broad St,Box 980224, Richmond, VA 23298 USA								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300032	36	Article; Article		
J	Post, Eric G.; Green, Nicole E.; Schaefer, Daniel A.; Trigsted, Stephanie M.; Brooks, M. Alison; McGuine, Timothy A.; Watson, Andrew M.; Bell, David R.								Socioeconomic status of parents with children participating on youth club sport teams								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				126	132		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.014			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To describe the socioeconomic status, measured by household income and educational attainment, of parents with children participating on youth club sport teams. Design: Cross-sectional survey. Setting: Local sport events. Participants: 949 parents (571 female) of youth athletes between 10 and 18 years old were recruited at club team events and practices to complete an anonymous questionnaire. Main Outcome Measures: SES variables included total household income (THI) and educational attainment. Sport specialization was classified as low, moderate, or high using a previously utilized 3-point specialization scale. Chi-square tests were used to compare frequencies SES categories with child specialization. Results: Parents reported spending a median of 1500 [500-3000] USD per year on their children's club sports activities. Most parents reported a THI greater than 100,000 USD per year and a bachelor's degree or higher level of education. Parents in the higher THI categories were more likely to have a child that is highly specialized in one sport. Conclusion: The current youth sports system in the United States, which emphasizes year-round participation on club teams, may be limiting the participation of families without the resources to participate in this system. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Post, Eric G.; Green, Nicole E.; Schaefer, Daniel A.; Bell, David R.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Kinesiol, Madison, WI USA; [Post, Eric G.; Green, Nicole E.; Schaefer, Daniel A.; Bell, David R.] Univ Wisconsin, Wisconsin Injury Sport Lab, Madison, WI USA; [Trigsted, Stephanie M.] High Point Univ, Dept Athlet Training, High Point, NC USA; [Brooks, M. Alison; McGuine, Timothy A.; Watson, Andrew M.; Bell, David R.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Orthoped & Rehabil, Madison, WI USA; [Post, Eric G.] Univ Wisconsin, 2224 Observ Dr,2031 Gymnasium Natatorium, Madison, WI 53706 USA								58							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300019	41	Article; Article		
J	Martins, Wagner Rodrigues; Blasczyk, Juscelino Castro; Soares, Saulo; de Paula, Wagner Diniz; Bottaro, Martim; Gentil, Paulo								A novel approach for rehabilitation of a triceps tendon rupture: A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				194	199		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.016			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: Generate hypotheses and add new perspectives to the literature in the nonsurgical management of large ruptures in the distal part of the triceps tendon. Methods: The patient was physically active, right handed, with a history of 20 years of resistance training practice and involvement in many activities, mostly combat sports (boxing, karate and mixed martial arts). The exercise program was designed with high repetitions and low rest intervals between sets in order to increase the metabolic stress. The resistance training with focus on tendon rehabilitation was performed in 28 weeks, with a follow-up of 52 weeks. The outcomes were changes in muscle strength and in the morphology of muscle and tendon. Results: The results obtained in the isokinetic tests showed that the functional deficit was more evident during isometric than dynamic actions, and was also higher is slow than fast actions. Dynamic performance was fully recovered at the end of the follow up, while isometric strength did not. Conclusions: The present case reports a successful rehabilitation program after a near maximum triceps tendon rupture. The novelty was in the use of a simple resistance training program, that demanded low time commitment and was performed in a regular fitness facility. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Martins, Wagner Rodrigues] Univ Brasilia, Div Phys Therapy, Campus UnB Ceilandia,QNN 14,Ceilandia Sul, BR-72220140 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Blasczyk, Juscelino Castro] Univ Brasilia, Secretaria Estado Saude Distrito Fed, Dept Phys Therapy, Campus Univ Darcy Ribeiro, BR-70904970 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Soares, Saulo; Bottaro, Martim] Univ Brasilia, Coll Phys Educ, Campus Univ Darcy Ribeiro, BR-70904970 Brasilia, DE, Brazil; [de Paula, Wagner Diniz] Univ Brasilia, Brasilia Univ Hosp, Campus Univ Darcy Ribeiro, BR-70904970 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Gentil, Paulo] Univ Fed Goias, Coll Phys Educ & Dance, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Martins, Wagner Rodrigues] Univ Brasilia, Div Phys Therapy, Campus UnB Ceilandia,QNN 14,Ceilandia Sul, BR-72220140 Brasilia, DF, Brazil								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300028	40	Article; Article		
J	Mandema, Liliane; Tak, Igor; Mooij, Brigitte; Groeneweg, Ruud; Bakker, Eric; van Veldhoven, Peter								Assessment of cam morphology of the hip with ultra sound imaging by physical therapists is reliable and valid								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				167	172		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.007			JUL 2018	2018	Background: Femoroacetabular impingement syndrome is considered present when a combination of clinical symptoms, signs and morphological features of the hip co-exist. Imaging is increasingly popular in primary health care settings with physical therapists performing ultrasound (US). Objective: The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy and inter-rater reliability of ultrasound in determining presence of cam morphology. Design: A concurrent validity and inter-rater reliability study. Methods: The presence of cam morphology of the hip was determined by alpha angle measures using Kinovea software. A cam was defined present when the alpha angle >60 degrees. The index test was US and radiographs served as a gold standard. Results: Correlation between the radiographic alpha angle and ultrasound measures was r = 0.82 (p < 0.01). Inter-rater reliability was high with an ICC of 0.74 (95% CI 0.61-0.84). The predictive value for presence of cam morphology had a sensitivity of 79% and a specificity of 94%. The positive predictive value was 79% whereas the negative predictive value was 94%. Total accuracy was 90%. Conclusions: Ultrasound conducted by trained physical therapists is a valid, reliable, specific and sensitive diagnostic tool to assess the presence of cam morphology. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mandema, Liliane] Praktijk Fysio Manuele Therapie Koning Mandema, Prins Hendrikstr 184, NL-2518 HZ The Hague, Netherlands								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300024	24	Article; Article		
J	Armstrong, Ross; Greig, Matt								The Beighton score as a predictor of Brighton criteria in sport and dance								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				145	154		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.016			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To determine the efficacy of using the Beighton joint hypermobility score as a predictor of Brighton criteria components, considering the influence of gender and sports participation. Design: Cross sectional study design. Setting: A University. Participants: Sixty-five female rugby players, 38 male rugby players, 61 netball players, 42 female dancers, 40 male controls and 40 female controls. Main outcome measures: The Beighton score was assessed using the Beighton and Horan Joint Mobility Index. The Brighton criteria was used to assess joint hypermobility syndrome. A binary logistic regression was performed for a pooled sample (n = 286), and subsequently for gender and sport to assess the Beighton score as a predictor of Brighton criteria. Results: Beighton scores were found to be a predictor of arthralgia (P = 0.002), dislocation and subluxation (P = 0.048) in the pooled analysis; a predictor of dislocation and subluxation (P = 0.047) in males and arthralgia (P = 0.001) in females. Beighton scores were a predictor of arthralgia in female rugby (P = 0.003) and in female controls (P = 0.012). Conclusions: The potential of the Beighton score to predict joint arthralgia and dislocation/subluxation may allow clinicians to implement effective injury prevention strategies. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Armstrong, Ross; Greig, Matt] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Sports Injuries Res Grp, Ormskirk L39 4QP, Lancs, England; [Armstrong, Ross] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Sports Injuries Res Grp, Ormskirk L39 4QP, Lancs, England								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300022	63	Article; Article		
J	Feijen, Stef; Kuppens, Kevin; Tate, Angela; Baert, Isabel; Struyf, Thomas; Struyf, Filip								Intra- and interrater reliability of the 'lumbar-locked thoracic rotation test' in competitive swimmers ages 10 through 18 years								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				140	144		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.012			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: Measuring thoracic spine mobility can be of interest to competitive swimmers as it has been associated with shoulder girdle function and scapular position in subjects with and without shoulder pain. At present, no reliability data of thoracic spine mobility measurements are available in the swimming population. This study aims to evaluate the within-session intra- and interrater reliability of the "lumbar-locked rotation test" for thoracic spine rotation in competitive swimmers aged 10 to 18 years. This reliability study is part of a larger prospective cohort study investigating potential risk factors for the development of shoulder pain in competitive swimmers. Design: Within-session, intra- and inter-rater reliability. Setting: Competitive swimming clubs in Belgium. Participants: 21 competitive swimmers. Main outcome measures: Intra- and inter-rater reliability of the lumbar-locked thoracic rotation test. Results: Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) ranged from 0.91 (95% CI 0.78 to 0.96) to 0.96 (0.89 -0.98) for intra-rater reliability. Results for inter-rater reliability ranged from 0.89 (0.72-0.95) to 0.86 (0.65-0.94) respectively for right and left thoracic rotation. Conclusion: Results suggest good to excellent reliability of the lumbar-locked thoracic rotation test, indicating this test can be used reliably in clinical practice. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Feijen, Stef; Kuppens, Kevin; Baert, Isabel; Struyf, Filip] Univ Antwerp, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci & Physiotherapy, Antwerp, Belgium; [Tate, Angela] Arcadia Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Glenside, PA USA; [Struyf, Thomas] Sci Inst Publ Hlth, Healthcare Associated Infect & Antimicrobial Resi, Brussels, Belgium; [Struyf, Filip] Univ Antwerp, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Univ Pl 1, B-2610 Antwerp, Belgium								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300021	36	Article; Article		
J	Nuccio, Stefano; Labanca, Luciana; Rocchi, Jacopo Emanuele; Macaluso, Andrea; Sbriccoli, Paola								Neuromechanical response to passive cyclic loading of the ACL in non-professional soccer players: A pilot study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				187	193		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.013			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: To investigate the effects of passive cyclic loading (CYC) on anterior tibial translation (ATT), knee extensor and flexor muscle strength and activation in soccer players. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Functional Assessment Laboratory; Participants: Eight healthy competitive soccer players. Interventions: The knee of the dominant limb was subjected to 10 min of CYC at 200 N force. Main outcomes measures: ATT was measured before and after CYC. Percentage of variation was used to estimate ACL creep. Knee extension and flexion maximal voluntary contractions (MVCs) were assessed both before and after CYC. EMG amplitudes of both Biceps Femoris (BF) and Vastus Lateralis (VL) were recorded during both MVCs and CYC. Results: There was a 20.7% increase in ATT after CYC application (p<0.001). Post-CYC agonist and antagonist BF activations were 37.7% and 18.4% lower than pre-CYC ones during MVCs (p<0.05). BF EMG activity in the last 30s of CYC was 19.9% higher than in the first 30s (p<0.05). Conclusion: The increased ATT and the variations in neuromuscular activation of the BF in response to loading may expose the knee at higher injury risk by increasing joint instability. Further studies are required to thoroughly investigate these aspects in both laboratory and real-field settings. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Nuccio, Stefano; Labanca, Luciana; Rocchi, Jacopo Emanuele; Macaluso, Andrea; Sbriccoli, Paola] Univ Rome Foro ltalico, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Piazza Lauro Bosis 6, I-00135 Rome, Italy; [Rocchi, Jacopo Emanuele; Macaluso, Andrea] FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Villa Stuart Sport Clin, Rome, Italy; [Sbriccoli, Paola] Univ Rome Foro ltalico, Dept Movement Human & Hlth Sci, Piazza Lauro Bosis 6, I-00135 Rome, Italy								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300027	39	Article; Article		
J	Espi-Lopez, Gemma V.; Lopez-Martinez, Susana; Ingles, Marta; Serra-Ano, Pilar; Aguilar-Rodriguez, Marta								Effect of manual therapy versus proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation in dynamic balance, mobility and flexibility in field hockey players. A randomized controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				173	179		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.017			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To compare the effectiveness of a specific Manual Therapy (MT) protocol applied to field hockey players (FHP), versus a Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation (PNF) protocol, in the improvement of dynamic balance, active range of movement and lumbar flexibility one-week and four-weeks after the treatment. Design: Randomized controlled trial. Participants were assigned to 2 groups: MT and PNF. 30 min' sessions were performed once a week for three weeks. Three evaluations were performed: basal, one-week and four-weeks post-treatment. Setting: University of Valencia (Spain). Participants: 22 in MT group and 20 in PNF group. Main outcome measures: Dynamic Balance, measured with Star Excursion Balance Test; Active Range of Motion (ROM), using a manual goniometer and Lumbar Flexibility, assessed with Fingertip-to-floor test. Results: Both groups significantly improved in lateral and medial dynamic balance one-week post-treatment (p < 0.05); but the improvement in the MT group lasted until the fourth-week after treatment in both reaches (lateral and medial) (p<0.05). MT group also obtained significant improvements in dorsal flexion of the ankle in the fourth-week post-treatment (p < 0.05) and in lumbar flexibility one-week post-treatment (p < 0.05). Conclusions: MT and PNF improve dynamic balance one-week post-treatment; however, the improvement obtained through MT is maintained four-weeks later. Only MT improves dorsal flexion of the ankle four-weeks post-treatment and lumbar flexibility one-week post-treatment. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Espi-Lopez, Gemma V.; Lopez-Martinez, Susana; Ingles, Marta; Serra-Ano, Pilar; Aguilar-Rodriguez, Marta] Univ Valencia, Fac Physiotherapy, Dept Physiotherapy, Gasco Oliag St 5, Valencia 46010, Spain; [Aguilar-Rodriguez, Marta] Univ Valencia, Fac Physiotherapy, Dept Physiotherapy, Gasco Oliag St 5, Valencia 46010, Spain								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300025	46	Article; Article		
J	Lack, Simon; Neal, Bradley; Silva, Danilo De Oliveira; Barton, Christian								How to manage patellofemoral pain - Understanding the multifactorial nature and treatment options								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				155	166		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.010			JUL 2018	2018	Patellofemoral pain (PFP) is one of the most prevalent conditions within sports medicine, orthopaedic and general practice settings. Long-term treatment outcomes are poor, with estimates that more than 50% of people with the condition will report symptoms beyond 5 years following diagnosis. Additionally, emerging evidence indicates that PFP may be on a continuum with patellofemoral osteoarthritis. Consensus of world leading clinicians and academics highlights the potential benefit of delivering tailored interventions, specific to an individual's needs, to improve patient outcome. This clinical masterclass aims to develop the reader's understanding of PFP aetiology, inform clinical assessment and increase knowledge regarding individually tailored treatment approaches. It offers practical application guidance, and additional resources, that can positively impact clinical practice. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Lack, Simon; Neal, Bradley; Barton, Christian] Queen Mary Univ London, Sch Med & Dent, William Harvey Res Inst, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England; [Lack, Simon; Neal, Bradley] Pure Sports Med, London, England; [Silva, Danilo De Oliveira; Barton, Christian] La Trobe Univ, Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Silva, Danilo De Oliveira] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Lab Biomech & Motor Control, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Lack, Simon] Mile End Hosp, Sports & Exercise Med, Bancroft Rd, London E1 4DG, England								66							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300023	136	Article; Article		
J	Hjerrild, Mette; Videbaek, Solvej; Theisen, Daniel; Malisoux, Laurent; Nielsen, Rasmus Oestergaard								How (not) to interpret a non-causal association in sports injury science								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				121	125		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.009			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: To discuss the interpretability of non-causal associations to sports injury development exemplified via the relationship between navicular drop (ND) and running-related injury (RRI) in novice runners using neutral shoes. Design: 1-year prospective cohort study. Setting: Denmark. Participants: 926 novice runners, representing 1852 feet, were included. Main outcome measure: The outcome was "a musculoskeletal complaint of the lower extremity or back caused by running, which restricted the amount of running for at least a week". Results: Fewer feet with small ND than those feet with a reference ND sustained injuries at 50 (risk difference (RD) = -4.1% [95%CI = -7.9%;-0.4%]) and 100 km (RD = -5.3% [95%CI = -9.9%;-0.7%]). Similarly, fewer feet with a large ND sustained injuries than the feet with a reference drop at 250 (RD = -7.6% [95%CI = -14.9%;-0.3%]) and 500 km (RD = -9.8% [95%CI = -19.1%;-0.4%]). Conclusion: Non-causal associations can help to identify sub-groups of athletes at an increased or decreased risk of sports injury. Based on the current results, those with a small or large navicular drop sustain fewer injuries than those with a reference drop. Importantly, navicular drop does not cause RRIs, but influences the relationship between training load and RRI. This illustrates that non-causal associations are unsuitable to respond to the question: Why do sports injury develop? (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Theisen, Daniel; Malisoux, Laurent] Luxembourg Inst Hlth, Sports Med Res Lab, 76 Rue Eich, L-1460 Luxembourg, Luxembourg; [Hjerrild, Mette; Videbaek, Solvej; Nielsen, Rasmus Oestergaard] Aarhus Univ, Sect Sport Sci, Dept Publ Hlth, Dalgas Ave 4,Room 438, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark; [Nielsen, Rasmus Oestergaard] Aarhus Univ, Sect Sport Sci, Dept Publ Hlth, Dalgas Ave 4,Room 438, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300018	35	Article; Article		
J	Mendez-Rebolledo, Guillermo; Gatica-Rojas, Valeska; Guzman-Munoz, Eduardo; Martinez-Valdes, Eduardo; Guzman-Venegas, Rodrigo; Berral de la Rosa, Francisco Jose								Influence of fatigue and velocity on the latency and recruitment order of scapular muscles								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				80	86		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.015			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To determine the influence of velocity and fatigue on scapular muscle activation latency and recruitment order during a voluntary arm raise task, in healthy individuals. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: Twenty three male adults per group (high-velocity and low-velocity). Main outcome measures: Onset latency of scapular muscles [Anterior deltoid (AD), lower trapezius (LT), middle trapezius (MT), upper trapezius (UT), and serratus anterior (SA)] was assessed by surface electromyography. The participants were assigned to one of two groups: low-velocity or high-velocity. Both groups performed a voluntary arm raise task in the scapular plane under two conditions: no-fatigue and fatigue. Results: The UT showed early activation (p <0.01) in the fatigue condition when performing the arm raise task at a high velocity. At a low velocity and with no muscular fatigue, the recruitment order was MT, LT, SA, AD, and UT. However, the recruitment order changed in the high-velocity with muscular fatigue condition, since the recruitment order was UT, AD, SA, LT, and MT. Conclusions: The simultaneous presence of fatigue and high-velocity in an arm raise task is associated with a decrease in the UT activation latency and a modification of the recruitment order of scapular muscles. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Mendez-Rebolledo, Guillermo; Gatica-Rojas, Valeska] Univ Talca, Fac Hlth Sci, Interdisciplinary Excellence Res Program Hlth Agi, Dept Human Movement Sci,Human Motor Control Lab, Talca, Chile; [Mendez-Rebolledo, Guillermo; Guzman-Munoz, Eduardo] Univ Santo Tomas, Fac Salud, Escuela Kinesiol, Valdivia, Chile; [Martinez-Valdes, Eduardo] Univ Birmingham, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Ctr Precis Rehabil Spinal Pain CPR Spine, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Martinez-Valdes, Eduardo] Univ Mayor, Ctr Invest Fisiol Ejercicio CIFE, Santiago, Chile; [Guzman-Venegas, Rodrigo] Univ Los Andes, Lab Integrat Biomecan & Fisiol Esfuerzo LIBFE, Santiago, Chile; [Mendez-Rebolledo, Guillermo; Berral de la Rosa, Francisco Jose] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain; [Mendez-Rebolledo, Guillermo] Univ Santo Tomas, Fac Salud, Escuela Kinesiol, Valdivia, Chile								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300013	39	Article; Article		
J	da Silva, Iran Henrique; da Silva Junior, Jose Mariedson; Santos-de-Araujo, Aldair Darlan; Fidelis de Paula Gomes, Cid Andre; Souza, Cesario da Silva; Alves de Souza Matias, Priscila Helena Vanin; Dibai-Filho, Almir Vieira								Intra- and inter-reliability of fleximetry in individuals with chronic shoulder pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				115	120		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.05.011			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: To evaluate the intra- and inter-rater reliability of fleximetry in the measurement of range of motion (ROM) in individuals with chronic shoulder pain. Design: Reliability study. Setting: Physiotherapy clinic. Participants: Thirty individuals of both genders, ages between 18 and 45 years, with chronic shoulder pain. Main outcome measures: Fleximetry was used to measurement shoulder ROM (flexion, hyperextension, abduction, medial and lateral rotation, and horizontal abduction and adduction). Two examiners performed the evaluations of the shoulder ROM at two time points (interval of one week between them). Results: In the intra-rater reliability, substantial to excellent reliability was found, with intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) values ranging from 0.79 to 0.92, standard error of the measurement (SEM) values ranging from 5.70 to 8.72 degrees, and minimum detectable change (MDC) values varying between 15.80 and 25.18 degrees. Regarding the inter-rater reliability, moderate to excellent reliability was observed, with ICC values ranging from 0.68 to 0.96, SEM values ranging from 4.98 to 11.53 degrees, and MDC values ranging from 13.82 to 31.97 degrees. Conclusion: The use of the fleximeter to measure shoulder ROM presents acceptable reliability values in individuals with chronic shoulder pain, which supports the use of this method of evaluation in research and clinical practice. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[da Silva, Iran Henrique; da Silva Junior, Jose Mariedson; Santos-de-Araujo, Aldair Darlan; Souza, Cesario da Silva; Alves de Souza Matias, Priscila Helena Vanin] Tiradentes Univ Ctr, Dept Phys Therapy, Maceio, AL, Brazil; [Fidelis de Paula Gomes, Cid Andre] Nove de Julho Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Dibai-Filho, Almir Vieira] Univ Fed Maranhao, Dept Phys Educ, Sao Luis, MA, Brazil; [Dibai-Filho, Almir Vieira] Univ Fed Maranhao, Dept Educ Fis, Ctr Ciencias Biol & Saude, Ave Portugueses,1966 Vila Bacanga, BR-65080805 Sao Luis, MA, Brazil								9							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300017	36	Article; Article		
J	Sinclair, Jonathan								Mechanical effects of medial and lateral wedged orthoses during running								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				48	53		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.020			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: The aim of the current investigation was to examine the effects of orthoses with 5 degrees medial and lateral wedges on knee joint kinetics during the stance phase of running. Design: Repeated measures. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Twelve recreational runners. Outcome measurements: Twelve male participants ran over a force platform at 4.0 m/s in three different conditions(medial orthotic, lateral orthotic and no-orthotic).Lower limb kinematics were collected using an 8-camera motion capture system allowing knee kinetics to be quantified using a musculoskeletal modelling approach. Differences in knee joint kinetics between orthotic conditions were examined using one-way repeated measures ANOVA. Results: The results showed that peak patellofemoral force was significantly increased in the medial (31.81 N/kg) and lateral (31.29 N/kg) wedged orthoses, in comparison to the no-orthotic (29.61 N/kg) condition. In addition, the peak knee adduction moment was significantly increased in the medial(1.10 Nm/kg) orthoses, in comparison to the lateral (0.87 Nm/kg) condition. Conclusions: The results from this study indicate that lateral orthoses may be effective in attenuating runners risk from medial tibiofemoral compartment OA, but that wedged orthoses may enhance their risk from patellofemoral pain. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sinclair, Jonathan] Univ Cent Lancashire, Fac Hlth & Wellbeing, Ctr Appl Sport & Exercise Sci, Sch Sport & Wellbeing, Preston PR1 2HE, Lancs, England; [Sinclair, Jonathan] Univ Cent Lancashire, Fac Hlth & Wellbeing, Ctr Appl Sport & Exercise Sci, Sch Sport & Wellbeing, Preston PR1 2HE, Lancs, England								13							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300008	39	Article; Article		
J	Takahashi, Chieri; Suga, Tadashi; Ueno, Hiromasa; Miyake, Yuto; Otsuka, Mitsuo; Terada, Masafumi; Nagano, Akinori; Isaka, Tadao								Potential relationship between passive plantar flexor stiffness and sprint performance in sprinters								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				54	58		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.018			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: To investigate the relationship between passive planter flexor stiffness and sprint performance in sprinters. Design: Cross-sectional study. Participants: Fifty well-trained male sprinters (age: 20.7 +/- 1.9 years, height: 175.6 +/- 4.9 cm, weight: 66.7 +/- 5.1 kg) were participated in this study. Their best personal times in a 100-m sprint ranged from 10.22 to 11.86 s(mean,11.12 +/- 0.43 s). Methods: Passive stiffness of the plantar flexors measured using a dynamometer system. Passive stiffness during passive dorsiflexion was calculated from the slope of the linear portion of the torque-angle curve. Results: Plantar flexor passive stiffness was significantly correlated with personal best 100-m sprint time (r = -0.334, P = 0.018). Conclusion: The present findings suggest that although the relationship between plantar flexor passive stiffness and personal best 100-m sprint time was relatively minimal, a higher plantar flexor passive stiffness may be a potential factor for achieving superior sprint performance in sprinters. Therefore,in the clinical setting, measurement of passive planter flexor stiffness may be useful for assessing sprint performance. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Takahashi, Chieri; Suga, Tadashi; Ueno, Hiromasa; Miyake, Yuto; Otsuka, Mitsuo; Terada, Masafumi; Nagano, Akinori; Isaka, Tadao] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, 1 Nojihigashi, Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan; [Suga, Tadashi] Ritsumeikan Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, 1 Nojihigashi, Kusatsu, Shiga 5258577, Japan								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300009	25	Article; Article		
J	Nicholson, Vaughan P.; Spathis, Jemima G.; Hogarth, Luke W.; Connick, Mark J.; Beckman, Emma M.; Tweedy, Sean M.; Payton, Carl J.; Burkett, Brendan J.								Establishing the reliability of a novel battery of range of motion tests to enable evidence-based classification in Para Swimming								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				34	41		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.021			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To evaluate the reliability of swimming-specific range of movement tests developed in order to permit evidenced-based classification in the sport of para swimming. Design: Test-retest intra- and inter-examiner reliability. Setting: International Swimming training camps and university exercise science departments. Participants: 42 non-disabled participants(mean age 23.2 years) and 24 Para swimmers(mean age 28.5 years). Main outcome measures: Intra- and inter-examiner reliability of a battery of novel active range of motion tests. Results: Good to excellent intra-examiner reliability was found for the majority (32/34) of tests in non-disabled participants (ICC = 0.85-0.98). SEM values ranged from 1.18 degrees to 6.11 degrees. Similarly, good to excellent inter-examiner reliability was found for the majority (35/42) of tests in non-disabled participants (ICC = 0.85-0.98). SEM values range from 0.73 degrees to 6.52 degrees. Para swimmers exhibited significantly reduced range of motion compared to non-disabled participants. Conclusions: The large majority of ROM tests included in this novel battery were reliable both within and between examiners in non-disabled participants. The tests were found to differentiate between non-disabled participants and Para swimmers with hypertonia or impaired muscle power. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Nicholson, Vaughan P.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Physiotherapy, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Spathis, Jemima G.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Hogarth, Luke W.; Burkett, Brendan J.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Connick, Mark J.; Beckman, Emma M.; Tweedy, Sean M.] Univ Queensland, Sch Human Movement Studies, St Lucia, Qld, Australia; [Payton, Carl J.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, HEAL Res Ctr, Crewe, England; [Nicholson, Vaughan P.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Physiotherapy, POB 456, Virginia, Qld 4014, Australia								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300006	37	Article; Article		
J	Klich, Sebastian; Krymski, Igor; Michalik, Kamil; Kawczynski, Adam								Effect of short-term cold-water immersion on muscle pain sensitivity in elite track cyclists								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				42	47		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.022			JUL 2018	2018	Objective: To determine the effect of short-term cold-water immersion (CWI) on muscle pain sensitivity after maximal anaerobic power training in track cyclists. Design: Repeated measures. Setting: University Laboratory. Participants: 12 elite sprint track cyclists (age 24,75 +/- 4,23 years). Main outcome measures: PPT measurements were made on dominant lower extremity (right) in 20 reference points, including anterior thigh muscles, posterior thigh muscles and posterior cuff muscles. PPT levels were measured: 1) before workout, 2) immediately after workout, but before CWI 3)1 h after CWI and 4)12 h after CWI. Mean PPT values for each muscle group per participant were calculated for further statistical analysis. Results: The average PPT for anterior thigh muscles decreased significantly after effort (p = 0.001) and increased significantly 1 h after CWI (p = 0.048). In posterior thigh muscles PPT decreased significantly after effort (p = 0.014) and increased significantly 1 h and 12 h after CWI (p = 0.045 and p = 0.25 respectively). However, in posterior cuff muscles PPT decreased only after effort (p = 0.001). Conclusions: Short-term repeated sprint exercise appears to affect PPT in track cyclists. This study have reported that CWI in 5 degrees C for 5 min have had a beneficial effect in minimizing PPT 1 h post repeated maximal sprint training. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Klich, Sebastian; Kawczynski, Adam] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Paralymp Sport, 25a Witelona St, PL-51617 Wroclaw, Poland; [Krymski, Igor] Polish Cycling Federat, Natl Team Coach, 1 Andrzeja St, PL-05800 Pruszkow, Poland; [Michalik, Kamil] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Physiol & Biochem, 35 Paderewskiego Ave, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland; [Klich, Sebastian] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Paralymp Sport, 25a Witelona St, PL-51617 Wroclaw, Poland								24							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300007	51	Article; Article		
J	Whatman, Chris; Walters, Simon; Schluter, Philip								Coach and player attitudes to injury in youth sport								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				32				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.01.011			JUL 2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate coach and player attitudes to injury in New Zealand (NZ) secondary school sport. Design: Cross-sectional survey. Setting: Secondary school sport. Participants: Secondary school coaches and players. Main outcome measures: Responses to a survey of injury attitudes. The survey was distributed in electronic and paper-based form to secondary school coaches and players across three sporting organisations. Coaches' uptake of injury prevention training and whether they had first aid qualifications was also elicited. Results: 117 coaches and 226 players from netball, football and basketball participated. The majority of coaches surveyed (n = 82,70%) reported having a coaching qualification and 72 (62%) had completed a sport related first aid/injury prevention programme. Overall,196 players (87%) reported hiding an injury to continue playing, and 102 coaches(87%)and 205 players(91%) had witnessed injured players play on. Approximately 50% of players and coaches had seen players put under pressure to play when injured. A lack of knowledge, the desire to win, and not letting the team down were key reasons given for the behaviour reported. Conclusions: The observed prevalence of players playing on when injured and associated attitudes to secondary school sport injuries demands further investigation. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Whatman, Chris; Walters, Simon] Auckland Univ Technol, AUT Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Schluter, Philip] Univ Canterbury, Sch Hlth Sci, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Whatman, Chris] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, AUT Sports Performance Res Ctr, Private Bag 92006, Auckland, New Zealand								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000438180300001	27	Article; Article		
J	Schreyer, Dominik; Schmidt, Sascha L.; Torgler, Benno								Game Outcome Uncertainty in the English Premier League: Do German Fans Care?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	5			625	644		10.1177/1527002516673406			JUN 2018	2018	Despite the increasing internationalization of marketing activities by professional sporting clubs, previous research exploring the role of game outcome uncertainty (GOU) in spectator demand has been exclusively conducted within national contexts. As a consequence, very little is known about the preferences of international television (TV) spectators watching games from abroad. Hence, this study analyzes all 571 English Premier League (EPL) games broadcast in Germany between the seasons 2011-2012 and 2015-2016 in order to explore whether TV demand for transnational football games is affected by GOU. In line with the prominent uncertainty of outcome hypothesis, the results of this analysis reveal a significant and positive relation between German EPL demand and GOU. This result, however, is not consistent for male and female spectators.		[Schreyer, Dominik; Schmidt, Sascha L.] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, CSM, Erkrather Str 224a, D-40233 Dusseldorf, Germany; [Schmidt, Sascha L.; Torgler, Benno] CREMA, Zurich, Switzerland; [Torgler, Benno] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Econ & Finance, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Schreyer, Dominik] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, CSM, Erkrather Str 224a, D-40233 Dusseldorf, Germany								43							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432094100002	65	Article; Article		
J	Walker, Gary J.; Hawkins, Richard								Structuring a Program in Elite Professional Soccer								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	3			72	82		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000345			JUN 2018	2018	This article discusses the processes that are undertaken by the conditioning coaches of elite soccer clubs when planning the training program for professional players. To successfully manage the training requirements of a squad of players throughout a season, it is important to structure training appropriately using strategies to identify the individual needs of players, ensuring that those requirements are met within the constraints of the annual calendar. The overall aim is to maximize squad availability while optimizing player readiness for matches, ensuring that each player has the physical capability to implement the required tactics successfully.		[Walker, Gary J.] Manchester United Football Club, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Hawkins, Richard] Manchester United Football Club, Athlet Training Serv, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Walker, Gary J.] Manchester United Football Club, Manchester, Lancs, England								35							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257100008	26	Article; Article		
J	Hennessy, Liam; Jeffreys, Ian								The Current Use of GPS Its Potential, and Limitations in Soccer								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	3			83	94		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000386			JUN 2018	2018	In soccer, global positioning system (gps) monitoring of player workloads is now extensively used across all levels of the sport. To make better use of this technology it is important to appreciate how it works. Further, when the limitations of gps use are appreciated and the rationale of use is agreed and articulated, then the potential of gps monitoring can be effectively realized to better manage players' performance, workload and welfarE. (See video, supplementary digital content, number 1, which summarizes gps use, limitations, and potential in soccer, http://links.lww.com/scj/a238).		[Hennessy, Liam] Setanta Coll, Thurles, Tipperary, Ireland; [Hennessy, Liam; Jeffreys, Ian] Univ South Wales, Dept Sport & Exercise, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales; [Hennessy, Liam] Setanta Coll, Thurles, Tipperary, Ireland; [Hennessy, Liam] Univ South Wales, Dept Sport & Exercise, Pontypridd, M Glam, Wales								61							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257100009	71	Article; Article		
J	Favero, Terence G.; White, John								Periodization in College Soccer								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	3			33	44		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000385			JUN 2018	2018	Periodization optimizes training responses to improve performance. college soccer presents a unique challenge to periodized approaches because of a short preseason and condensed match schedule. Academic challenges of class time and intensive examination schedules impact athlete's sleep and interfere with full recovery often leaving athletes fatigued and tired during and at the end of the season. This article outlines a model system to organize periodized training over an entire year, including summer training, preseason, and the competitive collegiate season. Practical suggestions are offered to address academic and seasonal challenges while preventing injury, avoiding burnout, and late season performance declines.		[Favero, Terence G.; White, John] Univ Portland, Dept Biol, Portland, OR 97203 USA; [Favero, Terence G.] Univ Portland, Dept Biol, Portland, OR 97203 USA								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257100005	77	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.; Risso, Fabrice G.; Giuliano, Dominic V.; Orjalo, Ashley J.; Jalilvand, Farzad								Practical Fitness Profiling Using Field Test Data for Female Elite-Level Collegiate Soccer Players: A Case Analysis of a Division I Team								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	3			58	71		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000343			JUN 2018	2018	This article will provide practical examples of how field testing data can be presented to highlight the characteristics of individual soccer players. An example testing battery will be described, as will the process for converting test data into standardized scores. Data will be presented to show the strengths and weaknesses of certain players, and how this information can be used to inform individualized training programs. Examples of data comparisons to normative values for elite players will also be presented, in conjunction with discussion as to how this information can contribute to the practices of the strength and conditioning coach.		[Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Strength & Conditioning, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Orjalo, Ashley J.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Risso, Fabrice G.; Giuliano, Dominic V.; Jalilvand, Farzad] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Strength & Conditioning, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257100007	94	Article; Article		
J	Bishop, Chris; Chavda, Shyam; Turner, Anthony								Exercise Technique: The Push Press								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	3			104	108		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000321			JUN 2018	2018	The push press exercise has often been used by coaches as one of many tools to enhance an athlete's physical development. Recent research has further validated this exercise to augment power development. The aim of this paper is to outline the benefits this exercise has for strength and conditioning coaches.		[Bishop, Chris; Chavda, Shyam; Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Dept Sci & Technol, London, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Dept Sci & Technol, London, England								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257100011	14	Article; Article		
J	Wing, Chris								In-Season Strength and Power Training Considerations for Professional Soccer Teams Competing Within National Level Competitions								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	3			12	22		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000377			JUN 2018	2018	Strength and power have been widely reported as essential qualities to successful soccer performance. However, improving these qualities within the in-season period seems to provide significant challenges. These include a chaotic fixture schedule, increased levels of fatigue, and issues surrounding concurrent training. A variety of methods may be used by strength and conditioning (s&c) coaches to overcome these. This may include adopting a nonlinear periodization plan and the careful manipulation of the variables within it. At all times, the s&c coach should be flexible and able to easily adjust programming to the changing competitive schedule.		[Wing, Chris] South Fremantle Football Club, Fremantle, WA, Australia; [Wing, Chris] South Fremantle Football Club, Fremantle, WA, Australia								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257100003	60	Article; Article		
J	Evans, Andrew L.; Turner, Martin J.; Pickering, Richard; Powditch, Rebecca								The effects of rational and irrational coach team talks on the cognitive appraisal and achievement goal orientation of varsity football athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	3			431	438		10.1177/1747954118771183			JUN 2018	2018	The effects of rational and irrational coach team talks on cognitive appraisal and achievement goal orientation were examined. During the half-time interval of a 60min football match, 25 male varsity football athletes (Mage = 20.20; SD +/- 1.38 years) received a rational (n = 13) or an irrational (n = 12) team talk from a coach. Irrational and rational beliefs were measured before the football match. Task engagement, cognitive appraisal (challenge and threat), and achievement goal orientation (approach and avoidance) regarding second-half football performance were measured following team talk delivery. Athletes in the rational team talk condition reported significantly lower threat appraisal and avoidance goal orientation than athletes in the irrational team talk condition. No significant between-condition differences emerged for challenge appraisal and approach goal orientation. For coaching practice, data suggest that communicating rational or irrational beliefs to football athletes through a half-time team talk will influence appraisal and achievement goal orientation regarding upcoming performance.		[Evans, Andrew L.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Frederick Rd, Salford M6 6PU, Lancs, England; [Turner, Martin J.] Staffordshire Univ, Ctr Sport Hlth & Exercise Res, Stoke On Trent, Staffs, England; [Pickering, Richard; Powditch, Rebecca] Nottingham Trent Univ, Sport Hlth & Performance Enhancement Grp, Nottingham, England; [Evans, Andrew L.] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Frederick Rd, Salford M6 6PU, Lancs, England								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000434391200024	49	Article; Article		
J	Marszalek, Jolanta; Molik, Bartosz; Gomez, Miguel-Angel								Game efficiency of elite male sitting volleyball players with regard to athletes' physical impairment								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	3			383	390		10.1177/1747954117716791			JUN 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to illustrate differences in game efficiency in sitting volleyball of male and female elite athletes in terms of players' impairment. Game analysis was conducted during World Championships in Sitting Volleyball in 2014. Modified Game Performance Sheet for Sitting Volleyball was used to assess players' actions: attack, serve, block, block of serve, defense, and ball receiving. Coleman's formulas were counted to obtain game efficiency of athletes. In statistics, Kruskal-Wallis test and Bonferroni correction were used (p value was set equal .005 and .003, respectively, in male and female group). 128 male and 91 female sitting volleyball athletes were included into this study. They were divided into groups in terms of impairment. There were no statistically significant differences in anthropometric parameters in male and female groups of players. Also, there were not statistically significant differences in game efficiency between players with different impairments in male as well as in female groups. This study did not confirm the current classification system in sitting volleyball (division into minimal disabled and disabled athletes). There is a need to continue research and find more evidences to substantiate or to change the current classification procedures in classification system in sitting volleyball.		[Marszalek, Jolanta; Molik, Bartosz] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, 34 Marymoncka St, PL-01813 Warsaw, Poland; [Gomez, Miguel-Angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Marszalek, Jolanta] Jozef Pilsudski Univ Phys Educ Warsaw, Fac Rehabil, 34 Marymoncka St, PL-01813 Warsaw, Poland								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000434391200017	37	Article; Article		
J	Brasil, Vinicius Z.; Ramos, Valmor; Milistetd, Michel; Culver, Diane M.; do Nascimento, Juarez V.								The learning pathways of Brazilian surf coach developers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	3			349	361		10.1177/1747954117739717			JUN 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to explore the learning pathways of five Brazilian surf coach developers, in order to understand how they became coach developers. A case study was conducted with five surf coach developers working in the sport participation context, and linked to a legally organized Brazilian surf federation. Three main research topics guided the semi-structured interviews: participants' experiences as a surfer, as a surf coach, and as a coach developer. Data were analyzed using thematic analysis to explore the participants' perceptions of the experiences around becoming a surf coach developer. The study revealed a pattern of formative experiences for the participants, across their lives and careers. Their experiences as a surfer and as a surf coach, as well as their exposure to the surfing environment and their contact with significant others, influenced in their engagement in surfing and in the surf coach context; leading them eventually to the desire to share knowledge with others. Becoming a surf coach developer in this study corresponded to a mutual socialization process across a lifetime. This process was marked by situated socio-cultural aspects of different life phases, strongly influenced by the social relations established in immediate contexts (family) and with other specific groups (surfers, coaches, and developers).		[Brasil, Vinicius Z.; Milistetd, Michel; do Nascimento, Juarez V.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Campus Reitor Joao David Ferreira Lima, BR-88040970 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Ramos, Valmor] Santa Catarina State Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Culver, Diane M.] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Brasil, Vinicius Z.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Campus Reitor Joao David Ferreira Lima, BR-88040970 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000434391200014	55	Article; Article		
J	Mills, John P.; Ing, Charles; Markham, Tom; Guppy, Fergus								It is not Black and White: A comparison of skin tone by playing position in the Premier League and English football								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	3			398	404		10.1177/1747954117749747			JUN 2018	2018	Within the present manuscript we explore the role of skin tone on playing position within English football's top four professional leagues. Player data (n = 4515) was collected across five seasons (2010-2015). Unlike previous research, results indicate a statistically significant, but arguable minor difference between the skin tones of those who play in central as opposed to wide positions. However, a one-way ANOVA highlights significant differences between skin tone and individual playing positions. Between league differences were, however, non-significant. Although mean skin tone is still darker for peripheral (i.e., wide) positions, the situation is more nuanced than first thought. Instead of segregating players by central versus peripheral roles, it appears that players of a darker skin tone occupy positions associated with athleticism and strength. In contrast, players of a lighter skin tone appear to fulfil positions requiring organizational skills and creativity.		[Mills, John P.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England; [Ing, Charles] Teesside Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise, Middlesbrough, Cleveland, England; [Markham, Tom] Sports Interact, London, England; [Guppy, Fergus] Univ Brighton, Sch Pharm & Biomol Sci, Brighton, E Sussex, England; [Mills, John P.] Univ Essex, Sch Sport Rehabil & Exercise Sci, Colchester CO4 3SQ, Essex, England								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000434391200019	32	Article; Article		
J	Newman, Nathan D.; Weiss, Windee M.								Relationship between demographic variables and collegiate athletes' perceptions of social support from head coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	3			343	348		10.1177/1747954117737985			JUN 2018	2018	Previous research has demonstrated the importance of social support during the rehabilitation of an injury. In particular, athletes view coaches as a primary source of social support. However, coaches have been an inconsistent or insufficient source of social support. Certain demographic variables may be related to differences in perceived social support from coaches. The purpose of this study was to describe injured collegiate athletes' perceptions of social support and explore whether differences in perceived social support from coaches existed due to contextual or situational factors. A survey on perceived social support from coaches was completed by athletes (n = 246) at five NCAA institutions. Results support previous findings that injured athletes perceive coaches as sources of moderate to high amounts of social support. Additionally, significant differences emerged in perceived social support based on the level of competition and type of sport. These results reaffirm the role head coaches play in the rehabilitation of injured athletes. Understanding variables that influence how an athlete perceives social support from a coach could improve rehabilitation outcomes.		[Newman, Nathan D.] Drake Univ, Coll Pharm & Hlth Sci, Des Moines, IA 50311 USA; [Weiss, Windee M.] Univ Northern Iowa, Coll Educ, Cedar Falls, IA USA; [Newman, Nathan D.] Drake Univ, Des Moines, IA 50311 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000434391200013	23	Article; Article		
J	Gomez, Miguel-Angel; Avugos, Simcha; Onoro, Miguel-Angel; Lorenzo, Alberto; Bar-Eli, Michael								Shaq is Not Alone: Free-Throws in the Final Moments of a Basketball Game								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			135	144		10.1515/hukin-2017-0165			JUN 2018	2018	It has been previously observed that basketball free-throw (FT) shooting efficiency decreases towards the end of the game. The aim of the current study was to explore possible determinants for this distinctive pattern during close games (point differential of equal or under 2 points during the final minute of the game). A sample of shots attempted by 92 players in the Spanish professional basketball league (ACB) was collected. Several personal (age, experience, playing position and career FT percentage) and contextual (team ability, competition stage, game location, seconds remaining and score differential) variables were considered for the analysis of the data. The effects of the predictor variables on the players' performance were analyzed according to two game contexts (FT attempted during the final minute or the last pair of FTs) using binomial logistic regression analysis. The results showed that during the final minute the only statistically significant variable was being in the center playing position (OR = 1.58), which decreased the FT shooting percentage compared to forwards and guards. In addition, the results during the last pair of FTs showed that the playing position of guards (OR = 1.70) and centers (OR = 2.22) was significant (a decrease in their FT percentage). Conversely, the score differential when tied (OR = -1.17) or losing (OR = -2.43) was significant, reflecting a lower probability of missing the shot. The results were interpreted and discussed from the viewpoints of crisis theory and the literature on choking in athletic performance.		[Gomez, Miguel-Angel; Onoro, Miguel-Angel; Lorenzo, Alberto] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Avugos, Simcha; Bar-Eli, Michael] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Zinman Coll Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Netanya, Israel; [Bar-Eli, Michael] Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Fac Management, Dept Business Adm, Beer Sheva, Israel; [Gomez, Miguel-Angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200014	45	Article; Article		
J	Beato, Marco; Jamil, Mikael; Devereux, Gavin								The Reliability of Technical and Tactical Tagging Analysis Conducted by a Semi-Automatic VTS In Soccer								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			103	110		10.1515/hukin-2017-0162			JUN 2018	2018	The Video Tracking multiple cameras system (VTS) is a technology that records two-dimensional position data (x and y) at high sampling rates (over 25 Hz). The VTS is of great interest because it can record external load variables as well as collect technical and tactical parameters. Performance analysis is mainly focused on physical demands, yet less attention has been afforded to technical and tactical factors. Digital.Stadium (R) VTS is a performance analysis device widely used at national and international levels (i.e. Italian Serie A, Euro 2016) and the reliability evaluation of its technical tagging analysis (e.g. shots, passes, assists, set pieces) could be paramount for its application at elite level competitions, as well as in research studies. Two professional soccer teams, with 30 male players (age 23 +/- 5 years, body mass 78.3 +/- 6.9 kg, body height 1.81 +/- 0.06 m), were monitored in the 2016 season during a friendly match and data analysis was performed immediately after the game ended. This process was then replicated a week later (4 operators conducted the data analysis in each week). This study reports a near perfect relationship between Match and its Replication. R2 coefficients (relationships between Match and Replication) were highly significant for each of the technical variables considered (p < 0.001). In particular, a high score of interclass correlation and a small coefficient of variation were reported. This study reports meaningless differences between Match and its Replication (intra-day reliability). We concluded that the semi-automatic process behind the Digital.Stadium (R) VTS was more than capable of recording technical tagging data accurately.		[Beato, Marco; Jamil, Mikael; Devereux, Gavin] Univ Suffolk, Dept Sci & Technol, Ipswich, Suffolk, England; [Beato, Marco] Univ Suffolk, Dept Sci & Technol, Ipswich, Suffolk, England								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200011	28	Article; Article		
J	Praxedes, Alba; Del Villar, Fernando; Pizarro, David; Moreno, Alberto								The Impact of Nonlinear Pedagogy on Decision-Making and Execution in Youth Soccer Players According to Game Actions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			185	198		10.1515/hukin-2017-0169			JUN 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to analyze the effect of a teaching program, based on Non-Linear Pedagogy, on decision-making and performance in youth soccer players as a function of the type of play action. Our participants were 19 players from the U12 age category. The teaching program, which was based on the application of modified games characterized by a numerical superiority in attack, was used for 14 training sessions. This program was conducted in two phases (preparation-for-intervention and intervention). Decision-making and execution for pass and dribbling actions were evaluated through the Game Performance Evaluation Tool. The results showed significant differences in favour of the experimental group in decision-making (p < .000) and the execution of passes (p = .003) after the intervention. However, such differences were not found for dribbling (decision-making, p = .402 and execution, p = .143). These findings demonstrate the effectiveness of this type of program for teaching actions with a high tactical component, such as the pass, and a different approach must be considered in actions with a high technical component, such as dribbling. It is necessary to continue developing studies in this line to clarify these issues.		[Praxedes, Alba; Pizarro, David; Moreno, Alberto] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Del Villar, Fernando] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Fac Hlth Sci, Phys Educ Area, Madrid, Spain; [Del Villar, Fernando] Av De Atenas S-N, Madrid 28922, Spain								53							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200019	30	Article; Article		
J	Redkva, Paulo E.; Paes, Mauro R.; Fernandez, Ricardo; da-Silva, Sergio G.								Correlation Between Match Performance and Field Tests in Professional Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			213	219		10.1515/hukin-2017-0171			JUN 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to investigate possible correlations between aerobic and anaerobic fitness (in field tests) with performance during a 90 min friendly match, through the following variables: total distance covered, maximal running speed, number of high-intensity actions and number of sprints. Eighteen professional soccer players from a Brazilian elite team (age 23 +/- 3 years, body mass 77.5 +/- 8.9 kg) participated in the study. The athletes performed a Yo-Yo Endurance Test (aerobic fitness) and a Running Anaerobic Sprint Test (six maximal 35 m efforts separated by 10 s of passive recovery, anaerobic fitness). Data were collected during friendly matches using a GPS with 5 Hz technology. To establish the correlation between the variables determined during the matches, the Pearson correlation coefficient was used (significance level of p <= 0.05). A high correlation was found between distance covered in the Yo-Yo endurance test and total distance covered (r = 0.72; p < 0.05), number of high-intensity actions (r = 0.78; p < 0.05) and number of sprints (r = 0.88; p < 0.01) in the soccer matches. The RAST variables did not relate to the standards set during the matches (p < 0.05). From the results of the present study, it may be concluded that there is no correlation between RAST and friendly match data variables. However, better results in the Yo-Yo endurance test correlate with total distance, number of high-intensity actions and sprints during matches.		[Redkva, Paulo E.; da-Silva, Sergio G.] Univ Fed Parana, Res Ctr Exercise & Sports, Dept Phys Educ, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Paes, Mauro R.; Fernandez, Ricardo] Univ Fed Parana, Dept Physiol, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Redkva, Paulo E.] Fed Univ Parana UFPR, Dept Phys Educ, Rua Coracao de Maria 92, BR-80215370 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil								47							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200021	33	Article; Article		
J	Jara, Daniel; Ortega, Enrique; Gomez, Miguel-Angel; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar								Effect of Pitch Size on Technical-Tactical Actions of the Goalkeeper in Small-Sided Games								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			157	166		10.1515/hukin-2017-0167			JUN 2018	2018	The aim of this paper was to determine how the size of the pitch affected technical and tactical actions of the goalkeeper when playing small-sided games. The participants were 13 male youth players, including 3 goalkeepers. Three different pitch sizes were used (62 x 44 m; 50 x 35 m; 32 x 23 m). On each pitch, the players played three matches of 8 minutes, with 5-minute breaks between matches. Numerous variables were recorded and examined: defensive and offensive technical and tactical actions, opponent's shooting zone, length and zone of the offensive action, and goal zone where the shoot was directed. An ad hoc observational tool was used. A descriptive analysis was described. The Fisher's exact test was used when the expected distribution was below 5 or included values below 1%. Statistical significance was set at p < 0.05. The results showed that the technical-tactical actions of the goalkeeper differed among pitch sizes. In defensive actions, when the pitch was larger, the 1-on-1 situations took precedence, whereas when the pitch was smaller, the proportion of blocks increased. In offensive actions, the goalkeepers did not show a wide variety of actions when the pitch was larger, but when the pitch was smaller, passes with a hand or foot increased. These results show that the size should be taken into account when planning and designing tasks.		[Jara, Daniel; Ortega, Enrique; Sainz de Baranda, Pilar] Univ Murcia, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, C Argentina S-N, San Javier 30720, Spain; [Gomez, Miguel-Angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Sainz de Baranda, Pilar] Univ Murcia, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, C Argentina S-N, San Javier 30720, Spain								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200016	29	Article; Article		
J	Saavedra, Jose M.; Thorgeirsson, Sveinn; Chang, Milan; Kristjansdottir, Hafrun; Garcia-Hermoso, Antonio								Discriminatory Power of Women's Handball Game-Related Statistics at the Olympic Games (2004-2016)								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			221	229		10.1515/hukin-2017-0172			JUN 2018	2018	Sports performance analysis has been a growing field of study in the last decade. However, the number of studies in handball is small. The aims of this present study were (i) to compare handball game-related statistics by the match outcome (winning and losing teams) and (ii) to identify characteristics that discriminated performance in elite women's handball. The game-related statistics of the 236 matches played in the last four Olympic Games (Athens, Greece, 2004; Beijing, China, 2008; London, United Kingdom, 2012; and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 2016) were analysed. Differences between match outcomes (winning or losing teams) were determined using the chi-squared statistic, also calculating the effect sizes of the differences. A discriminant analysis was then performed applying the sample-splitting method according to match outcomes. The results showed the differences between winning and losing teams were red cards and assists. Also, the discriminant analysis selected five variables (shots, goalkeeper-blocked shots, technical fouls, steals, and goalkeeper-blocked fast-break shots) that classified correctly 83% of matches. The selected variables included offensive and defensive predictors. Coaches and players can use these results as a reference against which to assess their performance and plan training.		[Saavedra, Jose M.; Thorgeirsson, Sveinn; Chang, Milan; Kristjansdottir, Hafrun] Sch Sci & Engn, Phys Act Phys Educ Sport & Hlth Res Ctr PAPESH, Sports Sci Dept, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Chang, Milan] Iceland Gerontol Res Ctr, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Garcia-Hermoso, Antonio] Univ Santiago de Chile, Fac Ciencias Med, Lab Ciencias Actividad Fis Deporte & Salud, Santiago, Chile; [Garcia-Hermoso, Antonio] Univ San Sebastian, Fac Ciencias Educ, Santiago, Chile; [Saavedra, Jose M.] Reykjavik Univ, Phys Act Phys Educ Hlth & Sport Res Ctr PAPESH, Sch Sci & Engn, Menntavegur 1, IS-101 Reykjavik, Iceland								30							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200022	29	Article; Article		
J	Lulinska-Kuklik, Ewelina; Rahim, Masouda; Domanska-Senderowska, Daria; Ficek, Krzysztof; Michalowska-Sawczyn, Monika; Moska, Waldemar; Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz; Brzezianski, Michal; Brzezianska-Lasota, Ewa; Cieszczyk, Pawel; September, Alison, V								Interactions Between <i>COL5A1</i> Gene and Risk of the Anterior Cruciate Ligament Rupture								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			65	71		10.1515/hukin-2017-0177			JUN 2018	2018	Collagen alpha-1(V) chain, encoded by the COL5A1 gene, plays a crucial role in abundant fibrillar collagens supporting many tissues in the body containing type I collagen and appears to regulate the association between heterotypic fibers composed of both type I and type V collagen occurring among others in muscles, tendons and ligaments. Taking this fact into consideration we decided to examine the association between COL5A1 rs12722 and rs13946 polymorphisms, individually and as inferred haplotypes, with anterior cruciate ligament rupture risk (ACLR) in professional soccer players. A total of 134 male professional soccer players with surgically diagnosed primary anterior cruciate ligament ruptures and 211 apparently healthy male professional soccer players, who were without any self-reported history of ligament or tendon injury, were included in the study. Both the cases and the healthy controls were recruited from the same soccer teams, of a similar age category, and had a comparable level of exposure to anterior cruciate ligament injury. Genomic DNA was extracted from oral epithelial cells using GenElute Mammalian Genomic DNA MiniprepKit. All samples were genotyped for the rs12722 and rs13946 polymorphisms using a Rotor-Gene real-time polymerase chain reaction. Statistically significant differences in the genotype frequencies for the COL5A1 rs13946 polymorphisms in dominant modes of inheritance occurred (p = 0.039). Statistically significant differences were documented only in the dominant model under the representation tendency of the C-C haplotype in the ACLR group compared to controls (p = 0.038). Our results suggest that variation in the COL5A1 gene may be one of the non-modifiable factors associated with the ACL injury in professional soccer players. The C-C rs12722-rs13946 haplotype provides a protective effect against the ACL tear.		[Lulinska-Kuklik, Ewelina; Moska, Waldemar; Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Tourism & Recreat, Gdansk, Poland; [Rahim, Masouda; September, Alison, V] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Human Biol, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Domanska-Senderowska, Daria; Brzezianski, Michal; Brzezianska-Lasota, Ewa] Med Univ Lodz, Chair Internal Dis 1, Dept Mol Bases Med, Lodz, Poland; [Ficek, Krzysztof] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Fac Physiotherapy, Katowice, Poland; [Ficek, Krzysztof] Galen Orthopaed, Bierun, Poland; [Michalowska-Sawczyn, Monika; Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Clin & Mol Biochem, Szczecin, Poland; [Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Kazimierza Gorskiego St 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland								45							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200007	30	Article; Article		
J	Marchetti, Paulo H.; Guiselini, Mauro A.; da Silva, Josinaldo J.; Tucker, Raymond; Behm, David G.; Brown, Lee E.								Balance and Lower Limb Muscle Activation Between in-Line and Traditional Lunge Exercises								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			15	22		10.1515/hukin-2017-0174			JUN 2018	2018	In-line and traditional lunge exercises present differences in technique as lower limb positioning (anterioposterior), and medio-lateral (ML) balance may differentially affect primary and stabilizer muscles. The purposes of this study were to examine ML balance and muscle activation in anterior and posterior leg positions between in-line and traditional lunge exercises. Fifteen young, healthy, resistance-trained men (25 +/- 5 years) performed 2 different lunge exercises (in-line and traditional) at their 10 repetition maximum in a randomized, counterbalanced fashion. Surface electromyography measured muscle activation of the vastus lateralis, biceps femoris, gluteus maximus, and gluteus medius. ML balance was measured with a Wii Fit Balance Board. The vastus lateralis activity was not significantly different between exercises or leg positions. The biceps femoris activity was not significantly different between exercises, however, it was significantly greater in the anterior compared to the posterior position for the in-line (p = 0.003), and traditional lunge (p < 0.001). The gluteus maximus activity was not significantly different between exercises, however, it was significantly greater in the anterior compared to posterior position for the in-line (p < 0.001) and traditional lunge (p < 0.001). ML balance was significantly greater in the in-line exercise in the anterior limb (p = 0.001). Thus, both in-line and traditional lunge exercises presented similar overall levels of muscle activation, yet the anterior limb generated the highest biceps femoral and gluteus maximus muscle activation when compared to the posterior limb. The in-line lunge presents greater ML balance when compared to the traditional lunge exercise.		[Marchetti, Paulo H.; da Silva, Josinaldo J.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, 18111 Nordhoff St, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Guiselini, Mauro A.] Univ Metodista Piracicaba, Coll Hlth Sci FACIS, Grad Program Sci Human Movement, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil; [Tucker, Raymond] Univ Houston Victoria, Victoria, TX USA; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF, Canada; [Brown, Lee E.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [da Silva, Josinaldo J.] Univ Nove de Julho, Dept Phys Educ, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Marchetti, Paulo H.] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, 18111 Nordhoff St, Northridge, CA 91330 USA								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200002	31	Article; Article		
J	Prieto-Loge, Ivan; Prieto, M. A.; Curran, Thomas P.; Gutierrez-Santiago, Alfonso								An Accurate and Rapid System to Identify Play Patterns in Tennis Using Video Recording Material: Break Point Situations as a Case Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			199	212		10.1515/hukin-2017-0170			JUN 2018	2018	The goal of this study was to present an accurate and rapid detection system to identify patterns in tennis, based on t-pattern analysis. As a case study, the break point situations in the final matches of the clay court tournaments played during the seasons 2011 and 2012 between the tennis players Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal were chosen. The results show that Nadal achieves a higher conversion rate with respect to Djokovic in the break point situations, independent of the outcome of the match. Some repetitive patterns of both players were revealed in break point circumstances. In long rally sequences (higher than seven hits), the Spanish player won more break points, both serving and receiving, as a result of unforced errors of his opponent's backhand. In medium rally sequences (between four and seven hits), other factors such as the type, direction or serve location have shown to play an important role in the outcome of the point. The study also reveals that Djokovic frequently commits double faults in these critical situations of the match. This is the first time that t-patterns have been used to analyze the sport of tennis. The technique is based on computer vision algorithms and video recording material to detect particular relationships between events and helps to discover the hidden mechanistic sequences of tennis players.		[Prieto-Loge, Ivan; Gutierrez-Santiago, Alfonso] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain; [Prieto, M. A.] Univ Vigo, Fac Food Sci & Technol, Nutr & Bromatol Grp, Ourense Campus, Pontevedra 36005, Spain; [Curran, Thomas P.] Univ Coll Dublin, UCD Sch Biosyst & Food Engn, Dublin 4, Ireland; [Prieto-Loge, Ivan] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Campus A Xunqueira S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200020	38	Article; Article		
J	Hileno, Raul; Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio; Busca, Bernat; Salas, Cristofol; Camerino, Oleguer								What are the Most Widely Used and Effective Attack Coverage Systems in Men's Volleyball?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			111	121		10.1515/hukin-2017-0163			JUN 2018	2018	In volleyball, attack coverage is one of the play actions most neglected in coaching and research. The purpose of this study was to find out which attack coverage systems are used by high-level men's teams in different game situations and the characteristics of the most effective systems. We analysed 15 matches from the 2010 Men's Pan-American Volleyball Cup, with a total of 1,415 coverage actions. Chi-square tests for independence, adjusted residuals analysis and calculations of standardised mean difference were performed. The results show that high-level men's volleyball uses many coverage systems other than the traditional 3-2-0 and 2-3-0. At this level of play, the most frequent systems were 1-3-1 and 1-2-2, which occurred significantly often at the culmination of a third-tempo attack at the wing. The most effective systems consisted of three coverage lines, with fewer than five players covering the spiker and at least one player in the first coverage line, in both the attack and counterattack phases. Given the large number of coverage systems identified in different game situations, we recommend flexible, loosely structured training in these systems, based on a set of guiding principles that all players on a team must internalise for the specific position they are playing. Regarding the systems' efficacy, the main watchword is that on each coverage line there should always be at least one player, but the first line should not be exposed.		[Hileno, Raul; Salas, Cristofol; Camerino, Oleguer] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Complex Caparrella S-N, Lleida 25192, Spain; [Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Garcia-de-Alcaraz, Antonio] Tech Univ Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci INEF, LFE Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Busca, Bernat] Ramon Llull Univ, Fac Psychol Educ Sci & Sport Blanquerna, Barcelona, Spain; [Hileno, Raul] Univ Lleida, Natl Inst Phys Educ Catalonia INEFC, Complex Caparrella S-N, Lleida 25192, Spain								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200012	29	Article; Article		
J	Canadas, Maria; Gomez, Miguel-Angel; Garcia-Rubio, Javier; Ibanez, Sergio J.								Analysis of Training Plans in Basketball: Gender and Formation Stage Differences								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			123	134		10.1515/hukin-2017-0164			JUN 2018	2018	Scientific literature has stated the presence of various stages in athletes sportive development, with different objectives in each one of them. This should lead coaches to different training plans according to the athlete's formation stage. The aim of this study was to analyse training plans and identify differences in basketball objectives according to formative stages (U'12 and U'14) in boys and girls. A total of 1,976 training tasks were collected and analysed, for a total of four teams (girls and boys of U'12 and U'14 categories) during an entire season. Pedagogical variables, game phases, game situations, training means and content were studied. The results showed significant differences between genders. Girls' teams performed more tasks on offense and technical skills. By contrast, boys' teams performed more defensive tasks and tactical contents. The 1-on-0 and 1-on-1 were the most repeated game situations in all teams. Coaches used different training tasks according to gender and age. In male U'12 teams, drills predominated, whereas in the other categories, games predominated. For boys' teams, the contents were tactical oriented, and for girls' teams, the contents were oriented toward skill acquisition. Studying the pedagogical variables of the training process allowed for identification of the utility of training, assessment, and modification of this process.		[Canadas, Maria] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Gomez, Miguel-Angel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Sports Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Garcia-Rubio, Javier] Univ Autonoma Chile, Fac Educ, Santiago, Chile; [Ibanez, Sergio J.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sports Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Canadas, Maria; Garcia-Rubio, Javier; Ibanez, Sergio J.] Univ Extremadura, GOERD Res Grp, Badajoz, Spain; [Canadas, Maria] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, C Argentina S-N, Santiago De La Ribera 30720, Spain								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200013	35	Article; Article		
J	Batalha, Nuno; Dias, Sonia; Marinho, Daniel A.; Parraca, Jose A.								The Effectiveness of Land and Water Based Resistance Training on Shoulder Rotator Cuff Strength and Balance of Youth Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			91	102		10.1515/hukin-2017-0161			JUN 2018	2018	The continuous execution of swimming techniques, supported mainly by the upper limbs, may cause shoulder rotator muscle imbalances, which leads to injuries. The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the effects of two training programs on strength, balance and endurance of shoulder rotator cuff muscles in youth swimmers. Twenty-five male swimmers were evaluated and randomly divided into two groups - the land group (n = 13), which conducted a conventional dry-land training program with elastic bands, and the water group (n = 12), which conducted a water resistance program. In both groups, the level of strength of the shoulder rotators was evaluated with an isokinetic dynamometer on two occasions (baseline and after 10 weeks) using two protocols: i) three repetitions at 60 degrees/s; ii) twenty repetitions at 180 degrees/s. The land group significantly increased the unilateral ratios compared to the water group. The land group also decreased the external rotator levels of muscular fatigue. The dry- land training program conducted proved to be more effective than the one conducted in the water, allowing to reduce the muscle imbalance and to decrease muscle fatigue.		[Batalha, Nuno; Dias, Sonia; Parraca, Jose A.] Univ Evora, Dept Desporto & Saude, Escola Ciencia & Tecnol, Evora, Portugal; [Batalha, Nuno; Marinho, Daniel A.; Parraca, Jose A.] Univ Evora, Res Ctr Sports Hlth & Human Dev, CIDESD, STRONG Res Community, Evora, Portugal; [Marinho, Daniel A.] Univ Beira Interior, Covilha, Portugal; [Batalha, Nuno] Univ Evora, Sport & Hlth Dept, R Reguengos Monsaraz 14, P-7000727 Evora, Portugal								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200010	32	Article; Article		
J	Owen, Adam Lee; Lago-Penas, Carlos; Dunlop, Gordon; Mehdi, Rouissi; Chtara, Moktar; Dellal, Alexandre								Seasonal Body Composition Variation Amongst Elite European Professional Soccer Players: An Approach of Talent Identification								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			177	184		10.1515/hukin-2017-0132			JUN 2018	2018	The primary aim of the investigation was to study the seasonal changes in body composition in elite European soccer players and identify key playing positional differences. Twenty-two players (age = 24 +/- 3.7 years, body height = 180.45 +/- 5.12 cm, body mass = 76.66 +/- 5.34 kg) were tested. Players' mass (kg), lean body mass (LBM), fat free mass (FFM), fat mass (FM), muscle girths (MG) and sum of 8 skinfolds (mm) were measured across 5 time points (T0 = Start of pre-season training; T1 = End of pre-season training; T2 = Mid-season; T3 = End of mid-season break; T4 = End of season). Players were divided into their tactical positional roles for analysis. The specific positions they were divided into included defenders (n = 8), midfielders (n = 8) and forwards (n = 6). Assessment of training and matchplay exposure were also recorded. Sites-4, Sites-7, Sites-8 and Fat Mass decreased dramatically from T0 to T1 and T2 in all playing positions (p < 0.01), while no remarkable differences were found between T2, T3 and T4. Except for defenders, calf girth and lean mass were higher in T2, T3 and T4 compared to T0 and T1 (p < 0.01). Midfielders were found to be leaner than forwards and defenders in all data collection time point sessions. Defenders showed higher values in calf girth and lean body mass than midfielders and forwards. It can be concluded from this investigation that there are large variances n positional body composition profiles amongst professional European soccer players. Furthermore, significant changes are prevalent and occur across the season from LBM, FFM, MG and skinfold assessment amongst European elite level soccer players.		[Owen, Adam Lee; Dunlop, Gordon] BenficaLAB, Sport Lisboa & Benf Sport Sci Dept, Lisbon, Portugal; [Owen, Adam Lee; Dellal, Alexandre] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Ctr Rech & Innovat Sport, Lyon, France; [Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ Sci & Sport, Pontevedra, Spain; [Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Sunderland, Dept Sport & Exercise sci, Soccer Res Grp, Sunderland, England; [Mehdi, Rouissi; Chtara, Moktar] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sport, Tunisian Res Lab, Tunis, Tunisia; [Dellal, Alexandre] FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Santy Orthopedicae Clin Ctr, Lyon, France; [Owen, Adam Lee] BenficaLAB, Sport Lisboa & Benf Sport Sci Dept, Lisbon, Portugal; [Owen, Adam Lee] Sport Lisboa & Benf Sport Sci Dept, Lisbon, Portugal								39							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200018	13	Article; Article		
J	Goncalves, Bruno; Folgado, Hugo; Coutinho, Diogo; Marcelino, Rui; Wong, Del; Leite, Nuno; Sampaio, Jaime								Changes in Effective Playing Space When Considering Sub-Groups of 3 to 10 Players in Professional Soccer Matches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			145	155		10.1515/hukin-2017-0166			JUN 2018	2018	Success in soccer is much dependent on how players and teams create and restrict space and time. In match situations, players constitute small sub-groups to improve their collective synchronization and achievement of specific goals. This study aimed to identify changes in the effective playing space (EPS, defined as the smallest polygonal area delimited by the peripheral outfield players) when considering sub-groups of 3 to 10 players. Twenty outfield professional players participated in this study. The EPS, its regularity pattern (measured by the approximate entropy), coefficient of variation and players' mean speed were calculated for sub-groups of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 players, considering the smallest inter-player distance as the criterion. The EPS presented a most likely increase with a higher number of players, especially considering the transition from 3 to 4 players (similar to 440% of variation, very large). As the EPS increased with the number of players, the correspondent regularity presented a trend of a most likely increase (from EPS3 vs. EPS4: similar to 25%, very large; to EPS9 vs. EPS10: similar to 11%, moderate). The mean speed results suggest that players may achieve different states of collective coordination, mainly between similar to 6 to 8 km.h-1. Overall, three different match scenarios should require additional attention when aiming to design more match transferable tasks: i) transition from EPS3 to EPS4; ii) transition from EPS4 up to EPS8; and iii) transition from EPS8 to EPS9. These results help to understand match self-organized behaviours and, consequently, allow to optimize task characteristics in practice sessions.		[Goncalves, Bruno; Folgado, Hugo; Coutinho, Diogo; Marcelino, Rui; Leite, Nuno; Sampaio, Jaime] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CreativeLab Res Community, Ap 202, P-500091 Vila Real, Portugal; [Goncalves, Bruno; Coutinho, Diogo; Leite, Nuno; Sampaio, Jaime] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, Sport Sci Dept, Vila Real, Portugal; [Folgado, Hugo] Univ Evora, Dept Sport & Hlth, Escola Ciencias & Tecnol, Evora, Portugal; [Marcelino, Rui] Univ Inst Maia, ISMAI, Maia, Portugal; [Wong, Del] Shandong Sport Univ, Sport Sci Res Ctr, Jinan, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Goncalves, Bruno] CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, CreativeLab Res Community, Ap 202, P-500091 Vila Real, Portugal								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200015	36	Article; Article		
J	Bouzigon, Romain; Ravier, Gilles; Dugue, Benoit; Grappe, Frederic								Thermal Sensations During a Partial-Body Cryostimulation Exposure in Elite Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				62	1			55	63		10.1515/hukin-2017-0158			JUN 2018	2018	Partial-body cryostimulation is used to improve recovery after exercise, especially during competitions or heavy training; however, a limited number of studies have been conducted with international-level athletes in situ during competitions. This study was undertaken to assess the thermal sensation ratings during 3 min of cold exposure (at -130 degrees C) in 24 international-level athletes during the European Basketball Championship. The mean thermal sensation score, measured using a perceptive scale, increased significantly (p < 0.05) during partial-body cryostimulation exposure in athletes from 3.0 +/- 1.7 at 30 s to 5.7 +/- 2.3 at 3 min (maximal observed value = 10.0). The mean value of 5.7 is considered a "cold" sensation on the scale (ranging from 0 = neutral sensation to 10 = very cold). However, we observed a large inter-individual variation in the perceived thermal sensations. The body mass index was significantly and negatively correlated with the thermal sensation value after 2 min 30 s and 3 min of exposure in females (r = -0.61, n = 13, p < 0.05; r = -0.56, n = 13, p = 0.054, respectively). Three participants reported high perceived thermal sensation after 30 s of exposure and their cold-induced discomfort worsened as the exposure continued. In conclusion, a 3-min exposure is globally well tolerated by athletes and can be used during a heavy competition period and/or during a training period. However, special attention should be given to female athletes with a low body mass index as they seem to be much more sensitive to cold.		[Bouzigon, Romain; Ravier, Gilles; Grappe, Frederic] Univ Franche Comte, Laboratoire EA C3S 4660, Unite Promot Format & Rech UPFR Sports, 31 Rue Epitaphe, F-25000 Besancon, France; [Dugue, Benoit] Univ Poitiers, EA 6314, Lab Mobilite Vieillissement & Exercice MOVE, Fac Sci sport, F-86000 Poitiers, France; [Bouzigon, Romain] Soc Cryantal Dev, 15 Cours Luzard, F-77186 Noisiel, France; [Bouzigon, Romain] Univ Franche Comte, Laboratoire EA C3S 4660, Unite Promot Format & Rech UPFR Sports, 31 Rue Epitaphe, F-25000 Besancon, France; [Bouzigon, Romain] Soc Cryantal Dev, 15 Cours Luzard, F-77186 Noisiel, France; [Bouzigon, Romain] 16 Rue Geais, F-39270 Plaisia, France								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000435204200006	34	Article; Article		
J	Petre, Henrik; Lofving, Pontus; Psilander, Niklas								The Effect of Two Different Concurrent Training Programs on Strength and Power Gains in Highly-Trained Individuals								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			167	173					JUN 2018	2018	The effects of concurrent strength and endurance training have been well studied in untrained and moderately-trained individuals. However, studies examining these effects in individuals with a long history of resistance training (RT) are lacking. Additionally, few studies have examined how strength and power are affected when different types of endurance training are added to an RT protocol. The purpose of the present study was to compare the effects of concurrent training incorporating either low-volume, high-intensity interval training (HIIT, 8-24 Tabata intervals at similar to 150% of VO2max) or high-volume, medium-intensity continuous endurance training (CT, 40-80 min at 70% of VO2max), on the strength and power of highly-trained individuals. Sixteen highly-trained ice-hockey and rugby players were divided into two groups that underwent either CT (n = 8) or HIIT (n = 8) in parallel with RT (2-6 sets of heavy parallel squats, > 80% of 1RM) during a 6-week period (3 sessions/wk). Parallel squat performance improved after both RT + CT and RT + HIIT (12 +/- 8% and 14 +/- 10% respectively, p < 0.01), with no difference between the groups. However, aerobic power (VO2max) only improved after RT + HIIT (4 +/- 3%, p < 0.01). We conclude that strength gains can be obtained after both RT + CT and RT + HIIT in athletes with a prior history of RT. This indicates that the volume and/or intensity of the endurance training does not influence the magnitude of strength improvements during short periods of concurrent training, at least for highly-trained individuals when the endurance training is performed after RT. However, since VO2max improved only after RT + HIIT and this is a time efficient protocol, we recommend this type of concurrent endurance training.		[Petre, Henrik; Lofving, Pontus; Psilander, Niklas] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci GIH, Dept Sport Performance & Training, Stockholm, Sweden; [Psilander, Niklas] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci GIH, Dept Sport Performance & Training, Stockholm, Sweden								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300001	42	Article; Article		
J	Tassignon, Bruno; Serrien, Ben; De Pauw, Kevin; Baeyens, Jean-Pierre; Meeusen, Romain								Continuous Knee Cooling Affects Functional Hop Performance - A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			322	329					JUN 2018	2018	Cryotherapy is widely used in sports and rehabilitation to aid recovery and injury management. The purpose was to examine if a low temperature computer controlled continuous knee cooling protocol (10 degrees C) for one hour and a moderate continuous knee cooling protocol (18 degrees C) for one hour affected neuromuscular activity and functional performance tests. We used a randomized controlled study design. Twenty healthy male subjects (age = 24 +/- 3 years) were included and randomized into 2 groups (10 degrees C and 18 degrees C). On day one, participants performed a maximal voluntary contraction of the quadriceps (MVC), single leg hop for distance (SLHD), and crossover hop for time (COHT) with both legs before and after cooling of their right leg. At day two, the same tests were performed with both legs before and after cooling of the left leg. Participants exposed to the 10 degrees C-protocol showed a significant decrease in SLHD and COHT performance. For the 18 degrees C-group, no significant changes in SLHD and COHT outcomes were noted. In both groups, EMG frequency during MVC decreased, but no significant increases were found in EMG amplitude. Continuous knee cooling at 18 degrees C for one hour does not affect functional hop performance, though adaptations at the muscle level (EMG frequency decrease) can be observed. Applying a similar cooling protocol with 10 degrees C results in a significant decrease in functional hop performance and EMG frequency. EMG amplitude remained unaffected. This infers that changes at muscle level due to local temperature manipulations may not always be detrimental to functional performance.		[Tassignon, Bruno; De Pauw, Kevin; Meeusen, Romain] Vrije Univ Brussel, Human Physiol Res Grp, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Pl Laan 2, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium; [Serrien, Ben; Baeyens, Jean-Pierre] Vrije Univ Brussel, Dept Movement & Sport Sci, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Brussels, Belgium; [Meeusen, Romain] Vrije Univ Brussel, Dept Biometry & Biomech, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Brussels, Belgium; [Meeusen, Romain] Vrije Univ Brussel, Human Physiol Res Grp, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Pl Laan 2, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium; [Meeusen, Romain] Vrije Univ Brussel, Dept Biometry & Biomech, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Brussels, Belgium								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300019	32	Article; Article		
J	Dressler, Patrick; Gehring, Dominic; Zdzieblik, Denise; Oesser, Steffen; Gollhofer, Albert; Koenig, Daniel								Improvement of Functional Ankle Properties Following Supplementation with Specific Collagen Peptides in Athletes with Chronic Ankle Instability								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			298	304					JUN 2018	2018	Following an initial ankle sprain it is not unlikely that chronic ankle instability (CAI) will develop. CAI is associated with impaired perceived functional and mechanical properties of the ligaments. Nutritional supplementation with collagen peptides has been shown to improve the functional and mechanical properties of the connective tissue. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effectiveness of specific collagen peptide supplementation (SCP) to improve ankle stability in athletes with CAI. 50 male and female athletes with CAI completed a randomized, double-blinded and placebo-controlled study with a daily oral administration of either 5 g SCP or 5 g placebo (Maltodextrin) over a period of six months. Both, the Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT) and the German version of the Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM-G) were used to measure the subjective perceived function of the ankle. Additionally, the mechanical stability was determined by measuring the ankle stiffness by an ankle arthrometer. Finally, a three-month follow-up was performed. ANOVA analysis indicated that the subjective ankle stability was improved in both the CAIT (p < 0.001) and the FAAM-G (p < 0.001) following SCP supplementation compared with placebo. No significant changes between the groups were detected in the results of the ankle arthrometer. After six month the subjective report of the ankle stability function significantly improved and the three month follow-up revealed a significant decline in the number of ankle joint injuries (p < 0.05). These data support the concept that specific collagen peptide supplementation in athletes with chronic ankle instability results in significant improvements in subjective perceived ankle stability. The reduction in the re-injury rate of ankle sprains in the follow-up period suggests that these findings have clinical relevance.		[Dressler, Patrick; Gehring, Dominic; Zdzieblik, Denise; Gollhofer, Albert; Koenig, Daniel] Univ Freiburg, Dept Sport & Sport Sci, Freiburg, Germany; [Oesser, Steffen] CRI, Kiel, Germany; [Dressler, Patrick] Univ Freiburg, Dept Sport Sci, Schwarzwaldstr 175, D-79117 Freiburg, Germany								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300016	25	Article; Article		
J	Bankosz, Ziemowit; Winiarski, Slawomir								Correlations between Angular Velocities in Selected Joints and Velocity of Table Tennis Racket during Topspin Forehand and Backhand								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			330	338					JUN 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to determine the correlations between angular velocities in individual joints and racket velocity for different topspin forehand and backhand strokes in table tennis. Ten elite female table tennis players participated, presenting different kinds of topspin forehands and backhands - after a no-spin ball (FH1, BH1), after a backspin ball (FH2, BH2) and "heavy" topspin (FH3, BH3). Range of motion was measured with the BTS Smart-E (BTS Bioengineering, Milan, Italy) motion analysis system with a specially developed marker placement protocol for the upper body parts and an acoustic sensor attached to the racket to identify ball-racket contact. In forehand strokes angular velocities of internal arm rotation and adduction in shoulder joint correlated with racket velocity. Racket velocity was correlated with angular velocities (hip extension on the playing side; hip flexion on the opposite side; ankle flexion) in the case of a topspin forehand performed with maximal force - "heavy" topspin (FH3). In backhand strokes the velocities of arm abduction and shoulder girdle rotation towards the playing side correlated with racket velocity. The angular velocity of internal arm rotation and adduction in shoulder joint may be important components of a coordinated stroke, whilst angular velocity can substantially affect the racket speed when one is changing the type of stroke.		[Bankosz, Ziemowit] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Sport Didact, Wroclaw, Poland; [Winiarski, Slawomir] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Fac Phys Educ, Dept Biomech, Wroclaw, Poland; [Bankosz, Ziemowit] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Al Paderewskiego 35, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland								46							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300020	22	Article; Article		
J	Abdelsattar, Mohamed; Konrad, Andreas; Tilp, Markus								Relationship between Achilles Tendon Stiffness and Ground Contact Time during Drop Jumps								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			223	228					JUN 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between Achilles tendon stiffness and ground contact time (GCT) during drop jumps. The property of "springiness" and a short GCT during the movement is required in several types of sports. Therefore, a stiff tendon might be advantageous due to the quick force transmission from the muscle to the bone. Hence, a secondary aim was to relate Achilles tendon stiffness with squat jump (SJ) and counter movement jump (CMJ) performance, respectively. Nineteen physically active healthy males (mean +/- SD: 26.7 +/- 3.9 years, 1.77 +/- 0.07 m, 76.5 +/- 6.7 kg) participated in this study. Subjects were asked to perform squat jumps and counter movement jumps to determine jump height, and drop jumps were undertaken on a force plate to determine GCT. We then simultaneously measured isometric maximum voluntary contraction (MVIC) of the plantar flexors with a dynamometer and recorded the elongation of the tendon with ultrasound; hence, we could calculate tendon stiffness. The results show a correlation between GCT and Achilles tendon stiffness (r = -0.50) and MVIC (r = -0.48), respectively. Achilles tendon stiffness was not significantly correlated with squat jump and counter movement jump height, respectively. According to the results, we can confirm the main hypothesis that a stiff Achilles tendon tends to result in a shorter GCT during drop jumps. However, Achilles tendon stiffness does not appear to be a key determinant in jumping performance.		[Abdelsattar, Mohamed] Mansoura Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Mansoura, Egypt; [Konrad, Andreas; Tilp, Markus] Graz Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria; [Konrad, Andreas] Graz Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Mozartgasse 14, A-8010 Graz, Austria								40							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300008	45	Article; Article		
J	Luz, Leonardo G. O.; Coelho-e-Silva, Manuel J.; Duarte, Joao P.; Valente-dos-Santos, Joao; Machado-Rodrigues, Aristides; Seabra, Andre; Carmo, Bruno C. M.; Vaeyens, Roel; Philippaerts, Renaat M.; Cumming, Sean P.; Malina, Robert M.								Multivariate Relationships among Morphology, Fitness and Motor Coordination in Prepubertal Girls								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			197	204					JUN 2018	2018	Motor coordination and physical fitness are multidimensional concepts which cannot be reduced to a single variable. This study evaluated multivariate relationships among morphology, physical fitness and motor coordination in 74 pre-pubertal girls 8.0-8.9 years of age. Data included body dimensions, eight fitness items and four motor coordination tasks (KTK battery). Maturity status was estimated as percentage of predicted mature stature attained at the time of observation. Canonical correlation analysis was used to examine the relationships between multivariate domains. Significant pairs of linear functions between indicators of morphology and fitness (r(c) = 0.778, Wilks' Lambda = 0.175), and between fitness and motor coordination (r(c) = 0.765, Wilks' Lambda = 0.289) were identified. Girls who were lighter and had a lower waist-to-stature ratio and % fat mass attained better scores in the endurance run, sit-ups and standing long jump tests, but poorer performances in hand grip strength and 2-kg ball throw. Better fitness test scores were also associated with better motor coordination scores. Relationships between body size and estimated fatness with motor fitness suggested an inverse relationship that was particularly evident in performance items that required the displacement of the body through space, while motor coordination was more closely related with fitness than with somatic variables.		[Luz, Leonardo G. O.; Carmo, Bruno C. M.] Univ Fed Alagoas, LACAPS, Arapiraca, Brazil; [Luz, Leonardo G. O.; Coelho-e-Silva, Manuel J.; Duarte, Joao P.; Valente-dos-Santos, Joao; Machado-Rodrigues, Aristides] Univ Coimbra, CIDAF, Coimbra, Portugal; [Coelho-e-Silva, Manuel J.; Duarte, Joao P.] Univ Coimbra, FCDEF, Coimbra, Portugal; [Duarte, Joao P.; Valente-dos-Santos, Joao] FCT, Lisbon, Portugal; [Valente-dos-Santos, Joao] Univ Coimbra, IBILI, Coimbra, Portugal; [Valente-dos-Santos, Joao] Lusofona Univ Human & Technol, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Lisbon, Portugal; [Machado-Rodrigues, Aristides] Univ Coimbra, CIAS, Coimbra, Portugal; [Machado-Rodrigues, Aristides] Polytech Inst Viseu, Sch Educ, Viseu, Portugal; [Seabra, Andre] Univ Porto, CIAFEL, FADE, Porto, Portugal; [Vaeyens, Roel] Univ Ghent, Dept Movement & Sports Sci, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Ghent, Belgium; [Vaeyens, Roel; Philippaerts, Renaat M.] Club Brugge KV, Brugge, Belgium; [Cumming, Sean P.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Malina, Robert M.] Univ Texas Austin, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Educ, Austin, TX 78712 USA; [Coelho-e-Silva, Manuel J.] Estadio Univ Coimbra, Pavilhao 3, P-3040156 Coimbra, Portugal								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300005	38	Article; Article		
J	Shen, Guangping; Zhang, Songning; Bennett, Hunter J.; Martin, James C.; Crouter, Scott E.; Fitzhugh, Eugene C.								Effects of Knee Alignments and Toe Clip on Frontal Plane Knee Biomechanics in Cycling								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			312	321					JUN 2018	2018	Effects of knee alignment on the internal knee abduction moment (KAM) in walking have been widely studied. The KAM is closely associated with the development of medial knee osteoarthritis. Despite the importance of knee alignment, no studies have explored its effects on knee frontal plane biomechanics during stationary cycling. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of knee alignment and use of a toe clip on the knee frontal plane biomechanics during stationary cycling. A total of 32 participants (11 varus, 11 neutral, and 10 valgus alignment) performed five trials in each of six cycling conditions: pedaling at 80 rpm and 0.5 kg (40 Watts), 1.0 kg (78 Watts), and 1.5 kg (117 Watts) with and without a toe clip. A motion analysis system and a customized instrumented pedal were used to collect 3D kinematic and kinetic data. A 3 x 2 x 3 (group x toe clip x workload) mixed design ANOVA was used for statistical analysis (p < 0.05). There were two different knee frontal plane loading patterns, internal abduction and adduction moment, which were affected by knee alignment type. The knee adduction angle was 12.2 degrees greater in the varus group compared to the valgus group (p = 0.001), yet no difference was found for KAM among groups. Wearing a toe clip increased the knee adduction angle by 0.95 degrees (p = 0.005). The findings of this study indicate that stationary cycling may be a safe exercise prescription for people with knee malalignments. In addition, using a toe clip may not have any negative effects on knee joints during stationary cycling.		[Shen, Guangping] Beijing Pi Fitness Technol Co Ltd, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Songning; Crouter, Scott E.; Fitzhugh, Eugene C.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Bennett, Hunter J.] Old Dominion Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Norfolk, VA USA; [Martin, James C.] Univ Utah, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Salt Lake City, UT USA; [Zhang, Songning] Univ Tennessee, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Biomech Sports Med Lab, 1914 Andy Holt Ave, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300018	45	Article; Article		
J	Lynn, Scott K.; Watkins, Casey M.; Wong, Megan A.; Balfany, Katherine; Feeney, Daniel F.								Validity and Reliability of Surface Electromyography Measurements from a Wearable Athlete Performance System								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			205	215					JUN 2018	2018	The Athos (R) wearable system integrates surface electromyography (sEMG) electrodes into the construction of compression athletic apparel. The Athos system reduces the complexity and increases the portability of collecting EMG data and provides processed data to the end user. The objective of the study was to determine the reliability and validity of Athos as compared with a research grade sEMG system. Twelve healthy subjects performed 7 trials on separate days (1 baseline trial and 6 repeated trials). In each trial subjects wore the wearable sEMG system and had a research grade sEMG system's electrodes placed just distal on the same muscle, as close as possible to the wearable system's electrodes. The muscles tested were the vastus lateralis (VL), vastus medialis (VM), and biceps femoris (BF). All testing was done on an isokinetic dynamometer. Baseline testing involved performing isometric 1 repetition maximum tests for the knee extensors and flexors and three repetitions of concentric-concentric knee flexion and extension at MVC for each testing speed: 60, 180, and 300 deg/sec. Repeated trials 2-7 each comprised 9 sets where each set included three repetitions of concentric-concentric knee flexion-extension. Each repeated trial (2-7) comprised one set at each speed and percent MVC (50%, 75%, 100%) combination. The wearable system and research grade sEMG data were processed using the same methods and aligned in time. The amplitude metrics calculated from the sEMG for each repetition were the peak amplitude, sum of the linear envelope, and 95th percentile. Validity results comprise two main findings. First, there is not a significant effect of system (Athos or research grade system) on the repetition amplitude metrics (95%, peak, or sum). Second, the relationship between torque and sEMG is not significantly different between Athos and the research grade system. For reliability testing, the variation across trials and averaged across speeds was 0.8%, 7.3%, and 0.2% higher for Athos from BF, VL and VM, respectively. Also, using the standard deviation of the MVC normalized repetition amplitude, the research grade system showed 10.7% variability while Athos showed 12%. The wearable technology (Athos) provides sEMG measures that are consistent with controlled, research grade technologies and data collection procedures.		[Lynn, Scott K.; Balfany, Katherine] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Ctr Sport Performance, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Watkins, Casey M.] Aukland Univ Technol, Strength & Conditioning, Auckland, New Zealand; [Wong, Megan A.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Feeney, Daniel F.] Univ Colorado, Dept Integrat Physiol, Boulder, CO 80309 USA; [Lynn, Scott K.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Ctr Sport Performance, 800 N State Coll Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA								45							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300006	36	Article; Article		
J	Ferreira, Amanda M. J.; Farias-Junior, Luiz F.; Mota, Thaynan A. A.; Elsangedy, Hassan M.; Marcadenti, Aline; Lemos, Telma M. A. M.; Okano, Alexandre H.; Fayh, Ana P. T.								Carbohydrate Mouth Rinse and Hydration Strategies on Cycling Performance in 30 Km Time Trial: A Randomized, Crossover, Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			181	187					JUN 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to investigate whether carbohydrate mouth rinse (CMR) improves physical performance of cyclists during a 30-km time trial test and its influence on water balance compared to other strategies of fluid intake. Eleven recreationally trained male cyclists completed a 30 km time trial cycle ergometer under three experimental interventions: (a) CMR, (b) drinking to replace all weight loss (DWL), and (c) drinking "ad libitum" (DAL). Time to complete the 30 km time trial, heart rate, average power, velocity, weight loss, urine color, urine density and pH were evaluated. Statistical analysis was performed using repeated measures analysis of variance (RM-ANOVA) and generalized estimating equations (GEE) with Bonferroni adjustment (p < 0.05). Time to complete the 30 km time trial was similar among CMR 54.5 +/- 2.9 min, DWL 53.6 +/- 3.9 min and DAL 54.5 +/- 2.5 min (p = 0.13). CMR (1.7 +/- 0.4%) elicited similar water loss compared to the DAL (1.4 +/- 0.6%) intervention, but it was higher than the DWL intervention (0.6 +/- 0.6%) (p < 0.01). CMR did not improve the performance of recreationally trained cyclists in a 30 km time trial test compared to other fluid intake strategies. Furthermore, CMR causes higher water loss compared to DWL intervention.		[Ferreira, Amanda M. J.; Farias-Junior, Luiz F.; Mota, Thaynan A. A.; Elsangedy, Hassan M.; Lemos, Telma M. A. M.; Okano, Alexandre H.; Fayh, Ana P. T.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, UFRN, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Marcadenti, Aline] Coracao Hosp, Inst Res, HCor, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Marcadenti, Aline] Univ Fdn Cardiol Rio Grande do Sul, Inst Cardiol, Grad Program Hlth Sci Cardiol, IC FUC, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Marcadenti, Aline] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre, Grad Program Nutr Sci, UFCSPA, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Fayh, Ana P. T.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Nutr, Ave Senador Salgado Filho 3000,Campus Univ, Natal, RN, Brazil								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300003	38	Article; Article		
J	Cipryan, Lukas; Plews, Daniel J.; Ferretti, Alessandro; Maffetone, Phil B.; Laursen, Paul B.								Effects of a 4-Week Very Low-Carbohydrate Diet on High-Intensity Interval Training Responses								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			259	268					JUN 2018	2018	The purpose of the study was to examine the effects of altering from habitual mixed Western-based (HD) to a very low-carbohydrate high-fat (VLCHF) diet over a 4-week timecourse on performance and physiological responses during high-intensity interval training (HIIT). Eighteen moderately trained males (age 23.8 +/- 2.1 years) consuming their HD (48 +/- 13% carbohydrate, 17 +/- 3% protein, 35 +/- 9% fat) were assigned to 2 groups. One group was asked to remain on their HD, while the other was asked to switch to a non-standardized VLCHF diet (8 +/- 3% carbohydrate, 29 +/- 15% protein, 63 +/- 13% fat) for 4 weeks. Participants performed graded exercise tests (GXT) before and after the experiment, and an HIIT session (5x3min, work/rest 2:1, passive recovery, total time 34min) before, and after 2 and 4 weeks. Heart rate (HR), oxygen uptake (<(V)over dot> O-2), respiratory exchange ratio (RER), maximal fat oxidation rates (Fat(max)) and blood lactate were measured. Total time to exhaustion (TTE) and maximal <(V)over dot> O-2 (<(V)over dot>O-2max) in the GXT increased in both groups, but between-group changes were trivial (ES +/- 90% CI: -0.1 +/- 0.3) and small (0.57 +/- 0.5), respectively. Between-group difference in Fatmax change (VLCHF: 0.8 +/- 0.3 to 1.1 +/- 0.2 g/min; HD: 0.7 +/- 0.2 to 0.8 +/- 0.2 g/min) was large (1.2 +/- 0.9), revealing greater increases in the VLCHF versus HD group. Between-group comparisons of mean changes in <(V)over dot>O-2 and HR during the HIIT sessions were trivial to small, whereas mean RER decreased more in the VLCHF group (-1.5 +/- 0.1). Lactate changes between groups were unclear. Adoption of a VLCHF diet over 4 weeks increased Fat(max) and did not adversely affect TTE during the GXT or cardiorespiratory responses to HIIT compared with the HD.		[Cipryan, Lukas] Ostrava Univ, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Cipryan, Lukas] Ostrava Univ, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Plews, Daniel J.; Laursen, Paul B.] Auckland Univ Technol, SPRINZ, Auckland, New Zealand; [Cipryan, Lukas] Univ Ostrava, CDLP, Varenska 40, Ostrava 70200, Czech Republic								38							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300012	44	Article; Article		
J	Larsen, Brianna; Cox, Amanda J.; Quinn, Karlee; Fisher, Rhiannon; Minahan, Clare								Immune Response in Women during Exercise in the Heat: A Spotlight on Oral Contraception								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			229	236					JUN 2018	2018	This study compared the immune and stress response of oral contraceptive users (WomenOC; n = 9) to normally-menstruating women (WomenNM; n = 9) at rest and during exercise in temperate (TEMP; 22 degrees C) and hot (HEAT; 35 degrees C) conditions. Participants performed a 3-stage cycling trial in each condition at 90% (Stage 1; 30 min), 135% (Stage 2; 15 min), and 180% (Stage 3; 7.5 min) of lactate threshold 1. C-reactive protein (CRP) and immune cell counts were measured at rest, and serum cytokines (IL-1 beta, IL-1RA, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, and TNF-alpha) and salivary cortisol were evaluated before and after exercise in both the TEMP and HEAT conditions. There were no differences in resting immune cell counts between groups, nor any differences in cortisol or any of the pro-or anti-inflammatory cytokines measured at rest or after completion of the exercise trials (p > 0.05). However, a trend for a higher resting CRP concentration was observed in WomenOC relative to WomenNM (1.102 +/- 1.182 and 0.326 +/- 0.228, respectively, p = 0.07). The results obtained in the current study indicate similar immunoendocrine function in WomenOC and WomenNM both at rest and after exercise in temperate and hot environments.		[Larsen, Brianna; Quinn, Karlee; Minahan, Clare] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Griffith Sports Physiol & Performance, Gold Coast, Qld 4222, Australia; [Larsen, Brianna; Quinn, Karlee] Griffith Univ, Menzies Hlth Inst Queensland, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Larsen, Brianna; Quinn, Karlee] Queensland Acad Sport, Nathan, Qld, Australia; [Cox, Amanda J.] Griffith Univ, Sch Med Sci, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Fisher, Rhiannon] Bond Univ, Inst Hlth & Sport, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Larsen, Brianna] Griffith Univ, Sch Allied Hlth Sci, Griffith Sports Physiol & Performance, Gold Coast, Qld 4222, Australia								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300009	46	Article; Article		
J	Yanaoka, Takuma; Kashiwabara, Kyoko; Masuda, Yuta; Yamagami, Jumpei; Kurata, Kuran; Takagi, Shun; Miyashita, Masashi; Hirose, Norikazu								The Effect of Half-time Re-Warm up Duration on Intermittent Sprint Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			269	278					JUN 2018	2018	The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of different durations of half-time re-warm up (RW) on intermittent sprint performance. Using a randomized crossover design, 13 healthy men performed three trials, which consisted of two, 40-min intermittent exercises separated by a 15-min half-time. Half-time interventions were 15 min of seated rest (Control), 7 min of cycling at 70% of maximal heart rate (HRmax) (7 min RW), and 3 min of cycling at 70% of HRmax (3 min RW). The second 40-min intermittent exercise as an exercise performance test was the Cycling Intermittent-Sprint Protocol (CISP), which consisted of 10 s of rest, 5 s of maximal sprint, and 105 s of low-intensity exercise at 50% of VO2max, with the cycles repeated over the 40-min duration. The mean work during the maximal sprint in the initial 10 min of the CISP was higher in the both RW trials than in the control trial (control: 3638 +/- 906 J, 7 min RW: 3808 +/- 949 J, p < 0.05, 3 min RW: 3827 +/- 960 J, p < 0.05). There were no significant differences among three trials for mean work at 10-20, 2030, and 30-40 min of the CISP. In the initial 10 min of the CISP, the change in oxygenated hemoglobin concentration during the 105 s of exercise at 50% of VO2max, oxygen uptake, carbon dioxide production, and respiratory exchange ratio were higher in both RW trials than in the control trial (p < 0.05). The rating of perceived exertion after half-time interventions was higher in both RW trials than in the control trial (p < 0.05). In conclusion, the 3 min RW increased intermittent sprint performance after the half-time, compared with a traditional passive half-time practice, and was as effective in improving intermittent sprint performance as the 7 min RW.		[Yanaoka, Takuma; Kashiwabara, Kyoko; Masuda, Yuta] Waseda Univ, Grad Sch Sport Sci, Saitama, Japan; [Yanaoka, Takuma; Kashiwabara, Kyoko] Japan Soc Promot Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Yamagami, Jumpei; Kurata, Kuran] Tokyo Gakugei Univ, Grad Sch Educ, Tokyo, Japan; [Takagi, Shun] Doshisha Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Miyashita, Masashi; Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 3-4-1 Higashihushimi, Nishitokyo, Tokyo 2020021, Japan; [Hirose, Norikazu] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 3-4-1 Higashihushimi, Nishitokyo, Tokyo 2020021, Japan								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300013	33	Article; Article		
J	Caparros, Toni; Casals, Marti; Solana, Alvaro; Pena, Javier								Low External Workloads Are Related to Higher Injury Risk in Professional Male Basketball Games								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			289	297					JUN 2018	2018	The primary purpose of this study was to identify potential risk factors for sports injuries in professional basketball. An observational retrospective cohort study involving a male professional basketball team, using game tracking data was conducted during three consecutive seasons. Thirty-three professional basketball players took part in this study. A total of 29 time-loss injuries were recorded during regular season games, accounting for 244 total missed games with a mean of 16.26 +/- 15.21 per player and season. The tracking data included the following variables: minutes played, physiological load, physiological intensity, mechanical load, mechanical intensity, distance covered, walking maximal speed, maximal speed, sprinting maximal speed, maximal speed, average offensive speed, average defensive speed, level one acceleration, level two acceleration, level three acceleration, level four acceleration, level one deceleration, level two deceleration, level three deceleration, level four deceleration, player efficiency rating and usage percentage. The influence of demographic characteristics, tracking data and performance factors on the risk of injury was investigated using multivariate analysis with their incidence rate ratios (IRRs). Athletes with less or equal than 3 decelerations per game (IRR, 4.36; 95% CI, 1.78-10.6) and those running less or equal than 1.3 miles per game (lower workload) (IRR, 6.42; 95% CI, 2.52-16.3) had a higher risk of injury during games (p < 0.01 in both cases). Therefore, unloaded players have a higher risk of injury. Adequate management of training loads might be a relevant factor to reduce the likelihood of injury according to individual profiles.		[Caparros, Toni] INEFC, Barcelona, Spain; [Caparros, Toni; Casals, Marti; Solana, Alvaro; Pena, Javier] Univ Vic, SPARG, Vic, Spain; [Solana, Alvaro; Pena, Javier] Univ Vic, UVic UCC Sport & Phys Act Studies Ctr CEEAF, Vic, Spain; [Caparros, Toni] C St Joan Bosco 7-9, Barcelona 08338, Spain								67							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300015	88	Article; Article		
J	Pallares, Jesus G.; Ramon Lillo-Bevia, Jose								Validity and Reliability of the PowerTap P1 Pedals Power Meter								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	2			305	311					JUN 2018	2018	To validate the new PowerTap P1 (R) pedals power meter (PP1), thirty-three cyclists performed 12 randomized and counterbalanced graded exercise tests (100-500 W), at 70, 85 and 100 rev. min(-1) cadences, in seated and standing positions. A scientific SRM system and a pair of PP1 pedals continuously recorded cadence and power output data. Significantly lower power output values were detected for the PP1 compared to the SRM for all workloads, cadences, and pedalling conditions (2-10 W, p < 0.05), except for the workloads ranged between 150 W to 350 W at 70 rev. min(-1) in seated position (p > 0.05). Strong Spearman's correlation coefficients were found between the power output values recorded by both power meters in a seated position, independently from the cadence condition (rho >= 0.987), although slightly lower concordance was found for the standing position (rho = 0.927). The mean error for power output values were 1.2%, 2.7%, 3.5% for 70, 85 and 100 rev. min(-1), respectively. Bland-Alt-man analysis revealed that PP1 pedals underestimate the power output data obtained by the SRM device in a directly proportional manner to the cyclist's cadence (from -2.4 W to -7.3 W, rho = 0.999). High absolute reliability values were detected in the PP1 pedals (150-500 W; CV = 2.3%; SEM < 1.0 W). This new portable power meter is a valid and reliable device to measure power output in cyclists and triathletes for the assessment, training and competition using their own bicycle, although caution should be exercised in the interpretation of the results due to the slight power output underestimation of the PP1 pedals when compared to the SRM system and its dependence on both pedalling cadence and cyclist's position (standing vs. seated).		[Pallares, Jesus G.; Ramon Lillo-Bevia, Jose] Univ Murcia, Human Performance & Sports Sci Lab, Murcia, Spain; [Pallares, Jesus G.] Fac Sport Sci, Argentina S-N, Murcia, Spain								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000432210300017	41	Article; Article		
J	Segura, Jerome; Willner, Jonathan								The Game Is Good at the Top								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	5			645	676		10.1177/1527002516673407			JUN 2018	2018	Collegiate football may provide advertising for universities, attracting larger pools of applicants and leading to more academically qualified student bodies. Football may also build school spirit, reducing attrition and improving long-run graduation rates. This analysis uses data from 2001 to 2004 for available National Collegiate Athletic Association Division-1 institutions to examine the advertising and effectiveness effects of football. Using both general linear model and linear-in-means model estimation procedures, we find strong advertising and effectiveness effects for football in the full sample. Among schools fielding a football team, the impact of Football Bowl Subdivision and winning percentage is muddy; however, the advertising effect of bowl appearances is strong.		[Segura, Jerome] Univ Wisconsin, Coll Profess Studies, Sch Business & Econ, Stevens Point, WI 54481 USA; [Willner, Jonathan] Oklahoma City Univ, Meinders Sch Business, 2501 N Blackwelder Ave, Oklahoma City, OK 73106 USA; [Willner, Jonathan] Oklahoma City Univ, Meinders Sch Business, 2501 N Blackwelder Ave, Oklahoma City, OK 73106 USA								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432094100003	33	Article; Article		
J	Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Kobal, Ronaldo; Nakamura, Fabio Y.								Using Loaded and Unloaded Jumps to Increase Speed and Power Performance in Elite Young and Senior Soccer Players								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	3			95	103		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000249			JUN 2018	2018	Speed and power abilities are progressively required in contemporary soccer to enable players to fulfill the demands of a competitive match. However, there are limited scientifically based recommendations related to training strategies able to improve these neuromuscular capacities in soccer athletes. This article highlights the evidence available in the literature while also applying it to strength and conditioning professionals who seek effective approaches to increase sprint and jump performances in elite young and senior soccer players.		[Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Kobal, Ronaldo; Nakamura, Fabio Y.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Dept Phys Educ, Londrina, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440257100010	48	Article; Article		
J	Scelles, Nicolas; Szymanski, Stefan; Dermit-Richard, Nadine								Insolvency in French Soccer: The Case of Payment Failure								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	5			603	624		10.1177/1527002516674510			JUN 2018	2018	This article examines insolvency (payment failure) in the top three divisions of French soccer. Between 1970 and 2014, we observed 79 cases of insolvency arising from participation in the top two or three (since 1993) divisions. We find that demand (attendance) shocks can account for insolvency to a significant degree. We also find that insolvency can be explained by club status and ownership structure, with professional status and the association structure being more likely to lead to insolvency. We also examine the postinsolvency performance of soccer clubs and find that the adverse consequences of insolvency are long lasting.		[Scelles, Nicolas] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland; [Szymanski, Stefan] Univ Michigan, Dept Kinesiol, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Dermit-Richard, Nadine] Univ Rouen, Fac Sports Sci, Mont St Aignan, France; [Scelles, Nicolas] Univ Stirling, Fac Hlth Sci & Sport, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland								56							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432094100001	27	Article; Article		
J	Roe, Mark; Malone, Shane; Delahunt, Eamonn; Collins, Kieran; Gissane, Conor; Persson, Ulrik McCarthy; Murphy, John C.; Blake, Catherine								Eccentric knee flexor strength profiles of 341 elite male academy and senior Gaelic football players: Do body mass and previous hamstring injury impact performance?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				31				68	74		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.01.006			MAY 2018	2018	Objective: Report eccentric knee flexor strength values of elite Gaelic football players from underage to adult level whilst examining the influence of body mass and previous hamstring injury. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Team's training facility. Participants: Elite Gaelic football players (n = 341) from under 14 years to senior age-grades were recruited from twelve teams. Main outcome measures: Absolute (N) and relative (N.kg(-1)) eccentric hamstring strength as well as corresponding between-limb imbalances (%) were calculated for all players. Results: Mean maximum force was 329.4N (95% CI 319.5-340.2) per limb. No statistically significant differences were observed in relative force values (4.4 N.kg(-1), 95% CI 4.2-4.5) between age-groups. Body mass had moderate-to-large and weak associations with maximum force in youth (r = 0.597) and adult (r =0.159) players, respectively. Overall 40% (95 CI 31.4-48.7) presented with a maximum strength between-limb imbalance > 10%. Players with a hamstring injury had greater relative maximum force (9.3%, 95% CI 7.0-11.8; p > 0.05) and a 28% (95% CI 10.0-38.0) higher prevalence of between-limb imbalances >= 15% compared to their uninjured counterparts. Conclusions: Overlapping strength profiles across age-groups, combined with greater strength in previously injured players, suggests difficulties for establishing cut-off thresholds associated with hamstring injury risk. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Roe, Mark; Delahunt, Eamonn; Persson, Ulrik McCarthy; Blake, Catherine] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Malone, Shane; Collins, Kieran] Inst Technol Tallaght, Gael Sports Res Ctr, Dept Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Malone, Shane] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Delahunt, Eamonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; [Gissane, Conor] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, London, England; [Murphy, John C.] Medfit Proact Healthcare, Dublin, Ireland; [Roe, Mark] Univ Coll Dublin, Hlth Sci Ctr, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin 4, Ireland								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432880000011	36	Article; Article		
J	Feddersen, Arne; Humphreys, Brad R.; Soebbing, Brian P.								Sentiment Bias in National Basketball Association Betting								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	4			455	472		10.1177/1527002516656726			MAY 2018	2018	We develop evidence of bettors with sentiment bias in the betting market on National Basketball Association (NBA) games. We use measures of team popularity (arena capacity utilization and team all-star votes received) as proxies for the presence of biased bettors. Analysis of point spreads and bet outcomes for more than 32,000 NBA games played in 1981-2012 shows that bookmakers increase prices on games involving popular home teams, an outcome consistent with sentiment bias. These changes in prices do not translate into higher returns for bettors, suggesting that bookmakers shade point spreads to increase profits.		[Feddersen, Arne] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Environm & Business Econ, Esbjerg, Denmark; [Humphreys, Brad R.] West Virginia Univ, Dept Econ, Morgantown, WV USA; [Soebbing, Brian P.] Temple Univ, Sch Tourism & Hospitality Management, 1810 N 13 St,Speakman Hall 111 006-68, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Soebbing, Brian P.] Temple Univ, Sch Tourism & Hospitality Management, 1810 N 13 St,Speakman Hall 111 006-68, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA								20							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000429886000001	35	Article; Article		
J	Wu, Fu-Lien; Shih, Yi-Fen; Lee, Si-Huei; Luo, Hong-Ji; Wang, Wendy Tzyy-Jiuan								Development of a clinical prediction rule to identify patients with plantar heel pain likely to benefit from biomechanical anti-pronation taping: A prospective cohort study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				31				58	67		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.01.010			MAY 2018	2018	Objectives: To develop a clinical prediction rule (CPR) to identify patients with plantar heel pain (PHP) likely to benefit from biomechanical anti-pronation taping (BAPT). Design: A prospective cohort study. Setting: An outpatient rehabilitation department in a general hospital. Participants: Seventy-five patients with PHP. Main Outcome Measures: After completing a series of physical examinations, all patients received BAPT and were evaluated with a numeric rating scale for pain intensity, the patient-specific functional scale and foot function index (FFI) for function, and the global rating of change for perceived improvement. Results: Twenty-eight patients achieved a successful outcome. A CPR with 6 significant variables was identified by a multivariate logistic regression: FFI score less than 33.3, hip adduction angle of the most affected side was greater than the contralateral side, ankle plantarflexors and hip abductors on the most affected side were not weaker than those on the contralateral side, ankle invertors on the most affected side were weaker than the contralateral side, and having more than 2 painful sites in the low back and lower extremity regions. If 5 or more of the 6 predictors were presented, the probability of success increased from 37% to 80%. Conclusions: A CPR has been developed to identify patients with PHP likely to benefit from BAPT. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Wu, Fu-Lien; Shih, Yi-Fen; Luo, Hong-Ji; Wang, Wendy Tzyy-Jiuan] Natl Yang Ming Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Assist Technol, 155,Sec 2,Linong St, Taipei 11221, Taiwan; [Lee, Si-Huei] Taipei Vet Gen Hosp, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Taipei, Taiwan; [Wang, Wendy Tzyy-Jiuan] Natl Yang Ming Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Assist Technol, 155,Sec 2,Linong St, Taipei 11221, Taiwan								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432880000010	65	Article; Article		
J	Newton, Liam; McCaig, Steve								The effect of a cricket fielding session on glenohumeral range of motion and active joint position sense								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				31				52	57		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.04.002			MAY 2018	2018	Objective: To assess the effects of a cricket fielding session, at an identified throwing injury risk workload, on shoulder joint position sense (JPS) and active range of motion (AROM) in cricketers. Design: Repeated measures observational study. Setting: Indoor cricket centre. Participants: Nineteen, asymptomatic University cricketers. Main outcome: AROM was assessed supine at 90 degrees abduction and from this 10% off end range IR and ER was used as the position matching angle to assess JPS. JPS error scores as well as AROM were assessed pre and post a cricket fielding session consisting of 40 throws. Results: Following the cricket fielding session, no alteration in JPS in ER (p = 0.91) or IR (p = 0.27) was observed. There was however a significant decrease in IR (-3.9 degrees) following the fielding drill (p = 0.007) while no significant change was observed in ER or total motion. Conclusion: Active IR ROM is significantly decreased immediately following a cricket fielding drill, while no alterations in JPS were observed. High levels of eccentric stress have been reported in the external rotators after throwing which may contribute to the acute musculotendinous adaptations observed. Changes in IR may be a contributing factor to workload-acquired shoulder throwing injuries. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Newton, Liam] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Edgbaston Campus, Birmingham B15 2TT, W Midlands, England; [McCaig, Steve] Loughborough Univ Technol, Natl Cricket Performance Ctr, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England; [Newton, Liam] Romsey Hosp, Physiotherapy Outpatients, Winchester Hill, Romsey SO51 7ZA, Hants, England								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432880000009	33	Article; Article		
J	Gillet, Benoit; Begon, Mickael; Diger, Marine; Berger-Vachon, Christian; Rogowski, Isabelle								Shoulder range of motion and strength in young competitive tennis players with and without history of shoulder problems								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				31				22	28		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.01.005			MAY 2018	2018	Objective: To assess the effect of a history of shoulder problems on the shoulder flexibility and strength in young competitive tennis players. Design: Cross-sectional study. Participants: Ninety-one competitive and asymptomatic tennis players aged between 8 and 15 years old were divided into two groups according to the presence or absence of a history of shoulder problems. Outcome Measures: Glenohumeral joint ranges of motion and the strength of eight shoulder muscles were bilaterally assessed. Five agonist/antagonist muscle strength ratios were also reported. Ranges of motion, strengths and strength ratios were bilaterally compared between the two groups. Results: Players with a history of shoulder problems presented a higher total arc of rotation for both glenohumeral joints (p = 0.02) and a lower external/internal glenohumeral rotator muscle strength ratio (p = 0.02) for both sides. They also presented stronger upper trapezius (p = 0.03) and dominant serratus anterior (p = 0.008) muscles than players without a history of shoulder problems. Conclusion: Having a history of shoulder problems may alter the balance between mobility and stability within the shoulder complex suggesting that particular attention should be given to dominant and nondominant shoulder functions by coaches and clinicians. (c) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Gillet, Benoit; Rogowski, Isabelle] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Univ Lyon, LIBM, EA7424,UFRSTAPS 27 29, Villeurbanne, France; [Gillet, Benoit; Begon, Mickael] Univ Montreal, Dept Kinesiol, Lab Simulat & Modelisat Mouvement S2M, Laval, PQ, Canada; [Begon, Mickael] Ctr Hosp Univ St Justine, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Diger, Marine] Hosp Civiles Lyon, Hop Croix Rousse, Grp Hosp Nord, Serv Explorat Fonct Resp, Lyon, France; [Berger-Vachon, Christian] IFSTTAR, UMR T9406, LBMC, F-69675 Bron, France; [Berger-Vachon, Christian] Ligue Lyonnais Tennis, Bron, France; [Gillet, Benoit] Lab Interuniv Biol Motricite EA7424, UFRSTAPS 27 29, Villeurbanne, France								27							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432880000005	40	Article; Article		
J	Lessi, Giovanna Camparis; Silva, Rodrigo Scattone; Serrao, Fabio Viadanna								Comparison of the effects of fatigue on kinematics and muscle activation between men and women after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				31				29	34		10.1016/j.ptsp.2018.01.009			MAY 2018	2018	Objectives: Studies comparing the effects of fatigue between men and women after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction are lacking. The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of muscle fatigue on trunk, pelvis and lower limb kinematics and on lower limb muscle activation between male and female athletes who underwent ACL reconstruction. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory setting. Participants: Fourteen recreational athletes (7 males and 7 females) with unilateral ACL reconstruction participated of this study. Main outcome measures: Trunk, pelvis and lower limb kinematics and muscle activation of the vastus lateralis, gluteus medius and gluteus maximus were evaluated during a single-leg drop vertical jump landing before and after a fatigue protocol. Results: Females had greater peak knee abduction after fatigue in relation to before fatigue (P = 0.008), and in relation to men after fatigue (P = 0.011). Also, in females, peak knee abduction was greater in the reconstructed limb in relation to the non-reconstructed limb after fatigue (P = 0.029). Males showed a greater mean amplitude of activation of the vastus lateralis muscle after fatigue in relation to before fatigue (P < 0.001). Conclusions: Muscle fatigue produced kinematic alterations that have been shown to increase the risk for a second ACL injury in female athletes. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Lessi, Giovanna Camparis; Serrao, Fabio Viadanna] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Phys Therapy, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Silva, Rodrigo Scattone] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Fac Hlth Sci Trairi, Santa Cruz, Brazil; [Serrao, Fabio Viadanna] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Phys Therapy, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432880000006	41	Article; Article		
J	Martins, Antonio Miguel; Cro, Susana								The Demand for Football in Portugal: New Insights on Outcome Uncertainty								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	4			473	497		10.1177/1527002516661602			MAY 2018	2018	The aim of this study is to identify variables that influence the stadium attendance in Portugal, and how these variables may affect decision management. Deriving a demand curve for stadium attendance in the Portuguese First Division Football League for 898 matches of five seasons (2010/2011-2014/2015), the results highlight five main explicative variables: cost, habit persistence, expected quality, team performance, and outcome uncertainty. With regard to outcome uncertainty, we employ the framework proposed by Humphreys and Zhou and we conclude for the importance of alternative factors affecting consumer choice like loss aversion and home win preference.		[Martins, Antonio Miguel] Univ Madeira, P-9020105 Funchal, Portugal; [Cro, Susana] IGOT Univ Lisboa, Edificio IGOT,Rua Branca Edmee Marques, Lisbon, Portugal; [Martins, Antonio Miguel] Univ Madeira, P-9020105 Funchal, Portugal								46							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000429886000002	34	Article; Article		
J	Kolber, Morey J.; Feldstein, Amanda P.; Masaracchio, Michael; Liu, Xinliang; Hanney, William J.								Influence of Femoral Acetabular Impingement on Squat Performance								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	2			47	53		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000370			APR 2018	2018	The squat is a fundamental movement for weightlifting and sport performance and may be used for assessing injury risk and functional independence. The purpose of this column is to present an evidence-based discussion of the influence that femoral acetabular impingement may have on squat performance.		[Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Feldstein, Amanda P.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Masaracchio, Michael] Long Isl Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Brooklyn, NY USA; [Liu, Xinliang] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Hlth Management & Informat, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Hlth Profess, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440256400005	24	Article; Article		
J	Machek, Steven B.; Bagley, James R.								Creatine Monohydrate Supplementation: Considerations for Cognitive Performance in Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	2			82	93		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000369			APR 2018	2018	Creatine monohydrate supplementation can increase total creatine and phosphocreatine stores for resynthesis of adenosine triphosphate. Although most existing literature has investigated creatine to improve strength and body composition, it has also been shown to promote brain energy homeostasis and improve cognitive parameters. This may be another mechanism for performance enhancement because exercise is both physically and mentally depleting. This article aims to (a) reinforce the efficacy of creatine supplementation in athletes, (b) showcase creatine's role as a cognitive enhancer, and (c) establish the need for future interventions in creatine's effect as a comprehensive ergogenic aid (combining physical and cognitive benefits).		[Machek, Steven B.; Bagley, James R.] San Francisco State Univ, Coll Hlth & Social Sci, Dept Kinesiol, San Francisco, CA 94132 USA; [Bagley, James R.] San Francisco State Univ, Coll Hlth & Social Sci, Dept Kinesiol, San Francisco, CA 94132 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440256400009	71	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Jaric, Slobodan								Two Point Method: A Quick and Fatigue-Free Procedure for Assessment of Muscle Mechanical Capacities and the 1 Repetition Maximum								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	2			54	66		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000359			APR 2018	2018	The force-velocity relationship is used to evaluate the maximal capacities of active muscles to produce force, velocity, and power. The load-velocity relationship has also been used to predict the 1 repetition maximum (1RM) and, consequently, the relative loads (%1RM). The 2-point method has recently emerged as a quick and fatigue-free procedure for the assessment of both the force-velocity and load-velocity relationships. This article summarizes the results of previous studies that have explored the feasibility of the 2-point method and provides practical recommendations for its application by strength and conditioning professionals.		[Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Catholic Univ Most Holy Conception, CIEDE, Fac Educ, Concepcion, Chile; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Biomech & Movement Sci Grad Program, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Beograd, Serbia; [Jaric, Slobodan] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Biomech & Movement Sci Grad Program, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Beograd, Serbia; [Jaric, Slobodan] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Human Motor Behav, Katowice, Poland								105							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440256400006	55	Article; Article		
J	Chavda, Shyam; Bromley, Tom; Jarvis, Paul; Williams, Steve; Bishop, Chris; Turner, Anthony N.; Lake, Jason P.; Mundy, Peter D.								Force-Time Characteristics of the Countermovement Jump: Analyzing the Curve in Excel								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	2			67	77		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000353			APR 2018	2018	Increased popularity in the utilization of force plates to measure countermovement jumps (CMJS) for performance monitoring warrants the need for strength and conditioning coaches and sport scientists to better understand its force-time characteristics and the calculation of its associated variables. This article aims to provide information on how to understand and analyze the force-time curve of CMJS in microsoft excel, thus providing practitioners an inexpensive and accessible alternative to readily available software on the market.		[Chavda, Shyam; Bromley, Tom; Jarvis, Paul; Williams, Steve; Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, London, England; [Turner, Anthony N.] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, Postgrad Programmes, London, England; [Lake, Jason P.] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Chichester, England; [Mundy, Peter D.] Coventry Univ, Sch Life Sci, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Chavda, Shyam] Middlesex Univ, London Sports Inst, London, England								151							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440256400007	16	Article; Article		
J	Neeld, Kevin								Preparing for the Demands of Professional Hockey								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	2			1	16		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000374			APR 2018	2018	Preparing players for the rigors of a professional ice hockey season requires a thorough understanding of the physical demands and injury patterns of the sport. This article combines an analysis of biomechanical and energy system demands with a review of the most prominent injuries to propose a comprehensive assessment battery for hockey players. Concepts from multiple periodization models are integrated to present an annual plan, including specific programming strategies for the development of speed, strength, and repeat sprint ability. Sample training plans are used to illustrate the application of the discussed principles, serving to maximize both performance and durability.		[Neeld, Kevin] San Jose Sharks, San Jose, CA USA; [Neeld, Kevin] San Jose Sharks, San Jose, CA USA								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440256400001	53	Article; Article		
J	Robertson, Paul J.; Callan, Mike; Nevison, Charlotte; Timmis, Matthew A.								Is visual search strategy different between level of judo coach when acquiring visual information from the preparation phase of judo contests?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			186	200		10.1177/1747954117737275			APR 2018	2018	Judo contests are complex situations for coaches observing them. Identifying where judo coaches look (i.e. their visual search strategy) when observing contests can help identify visual information they may use to inform coaching decisions. The current exploratory study investigated the visual search strategies of elite, sub-elite, and non-judo coaches when observing the preparation phase (viewed from video footage) of elite-level judo contests. Participants' eye movements were recorded using a mobile eye-tracker. Participants were instructed to provide verbal coaching instructions to improve a specified judoka's (judo athlete) performance at set times during the footage. Elite coaches fixated significantly more frequently and longer on the specified judoka's upper body (p<0.05) compared to the opponent's upper body and other key areas within the display. Sub-elite and non-judo coaches demonstrated no significant difference in the frequency or overall length of fixation between the judokas' upper bodies. The visual search strategy of elite judo coaches may have been a purposeful attempt to obtain accurate information about the judoka's attacking intentions early within the contest. This visual search strategy can be attributed to elite judokas' attempting to disguise their attacking intentions. Furthermore, elite coaches may have used the specified judoka's upper body as a visual pivot.		[Robertson, Paul J.; Nevison, Charlotte; Timmis, Matthew A.] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Cambridge CB1 1PT, England; [Robertson, Paul J.; Timmis, Matthew A.] Anglia Ruskin Univ, VERU, Cambridge, England; [Callan, Mike] Univ Chichester, Chichester Inst Sport, Chichester, England; [Robertson, Paul J.] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Cambridge CB1 1PT, England								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400004	55	Article; Article		
J	Dohmen, Thomas; Sonnabend, Hendrik								Further Field Evidence for Minimax Play								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	3			371	388		10.1177/1527002516656729			APR 2018	2018	This article provides evidence for mixed strategy play in a natural setting, using data from penalty kicking in professional German soccer. A penalty kick is a two-person constant-sum game. We distinguish two strategies for both players, namely, choosing left or right and verify empirically that the two main requirements for the existence of a Nash equilibrium in mixed strategies are met: (1) the expected payoffs are equal across strategies and (2) we cannot reject the hypothesis that players choose their actions randomly.		[Dohmen, Thomas] Univ Bonn, Dept Econ, Bonn, Germany; [Sonnabend, Hendrik] Univ Hagen, Dept Econ, Hagen, Germany; [Dohmen, Thomas] Univ Bonn, Fac Law & Econ, Dept Econ, Adenauerallee 24-42, D-53113 Bonn, Germany								13							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000429885900004	37	Article; Article		
J	Paulo, Ana; Davids, Keith; Araujo, Duarte								Co-adaptation of ball reception to the serve constrains outcomes in elite competitive volleyball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			253	261		10.1177/1747954117722727			APR 2018	2018	How impactful is volleyball's serve-reception game? Its efficacy has been found to discriminate between winning and losing a match. But how does reception become (in)effective? Based on the theoretical rationale of ecological dynamics, we hypothesized that skilled receivers in volleyball would not display ready-made responses, but rather would co-adapt action modes during serve-reception to deal with the specific, emergent constraints of serve to achieve task goals. In order to examine this issue, we investigated whether the co-adaptation of serve and reception action modes was a significant predictor of set outcome in elite volleyball performance (win or loss), analyzing the first and last sets of the 2014 World League Finals matches (897 game-sequences). The power-jump and jump-float were the serving modes observed and the overhand, underhand-lateral, and underhand-frontal passes were the reception modes categorized. We found that the co-adaptation of serve and reception action modes predicted set outcome in the final set of a match. Receiving the jump-float serve with an overhand pass or underhand-lateral pass increased the odds of winning the final set by 200%. Results suggested that, at an expert level, mastering the overhand pass and the underhand-lateral pass gives teams a competitive edge. Receivers showing flexibility in action mode selection improved a team's odds of successfully winning the final set of a match.		[Paulo, Ana; Araujo, Duarte] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Cruz Quebrada Dafundo, Portugal; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sports Engn Res, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Paulo, Ana] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Lab Pericia Desporto, Estr Costa 1499-002, Cruz Quebrada Dafundo, Portugal								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400010	30	Article; Article		
J	Jenkins, Simon P. R.								Master coach, technical expert and evidence-based practitioner in weightlifting: An interview with Harvey Newton								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			155	166		10.1177/1747954118755442			APR 2018	2018	Harvey Newton, who was team coach for USA Weightlifting in the 1984 Olympic Games, provides insights on how he learned about weightlifting technique. In particular, how he learned about the double knee bend' in pulling technique from his earliest mentor, Carl Miller, who shared his understanding about a scientific approach from coaches on a global basis. Harvey's development as an evidence-based practitioner was enhanced in a number of ways, including his continuing collaboration over many years with biomechanist John Garhammer who also shares insights in this article. Extracts from interviews with some of the coaches influenced by Harvey are also included.		[Jenkins, Simon P. R.] Univ Winchester, Dept Sport & Exercise, Winchester SO22 4NR, Hants, England; [Jenkins, Simon P. R.] Univ Winchester, Dept Sport & Exercise, Winchester SO22 4NR, Hants, England								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400001	10	Article; Article		
J	Gropper, Catherine C.; Anderson, Benjamin C.								Sellout, Blackout, or Get Out: The Impacts of the 2012 Policy Change on TV Blackouts and Attendance in the NFL								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	3			332	370		10.1177/1527002516641165			APR 2018	2018	Prior to the 2012-2013 season, National Football League franchises had the option to significantly adjust their TV blackout policies for the first time since 1973. Using data from team policy choices and local TV blackouts during the 2007-2008 to 2014-2015 seasons, we examine whether the policy change was effective in reducing the probability of blackouts or affected attendance. Controlling for team-fixed effects, we find no evidence that policy-adopting teams experienced significantly fewer blackouts or a change in attendance following the policy implementation. Our analysis sheds light on the economic factors that are correlated with local TV blackouts and game attendance.		[Gropper, Catherine C.] NBCUniversal, Today Show, New York, NY USA; [Anderson, Benjamin C.] Colgate Univ, Dept Econ, 13 Oak Dr, Hamilton, NY 13346 USA; [Anderson, Benjamin C.] Colgate Univ, Dept Econ, 13 Oak Dr, Hamilton, NY 13346 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000429885900003	36	Article; Article		
J	Kenneally-Dabrowski, Claire J. B.; Serpell, Benjamin G.; Spratford, Wayne								Are accelerometers a valid tool for measuring overground sprinting symmetry?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			270	277		10.1177/1747954117716790			APR 2018	2018	Running symmetry is important for performance, injury prevention or rehabilitation in many sports. However, current methods for measuring running symmetry are expensive, time consuming and must typically be constrained to a non-task representative laboratory setting. The aim of this study was to validate a method that used accelerometry data to determine running symmetry during maximal over ground sprinting for abled bodied athletes. Thirteen elite male athletes performed three 40m maximal sprints on an indoor running track while data were collected from eight force plates and an accelerometer positioned between the scapulae against the spine. Correlations and Bland-Altman analyses were used to assess validity. Time spent either side of the vertical axis was compared to maximal medio-lateral force from either side of the body using a symmetry index approach. Results revealed only a trivial relationship (r=0.088, p=0.616) and poor agreement (bias=0.189, p=0.000). Likewise, stride time from the accelerometer and force plates exhibited a small relationship (r(s)=-0.177, p=0.310) and significant bias (bias=-0.026, p=0.000), yet showed smaller limits of agreement. It was concluded that both of the methods for measuring sprinting asymmetry using accelerometer data had poor internal validity. However, of these measures, stride time showed the best capacity to calculate running symmetry during maximal effort sprints. Overall, it is suggested that coaches exhibit caution when interpreting running symmetry measures from accelerometers, and also carefully consider where the accelerometer is placed on the body.		[Kenneally-Dabrowski, Claire J. B.] Australian Inst Sport, Movement Sci Dept, Bruce, Australia; [Serpell, Benjamin G.] Univ Canberra, Brumbies Rugby, Bruce, Australia; [Spratford, Wayne] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Spratford, Wayne] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Serpell, Benjamin G.] Univ Canberra, Bldg 29,Univ Dr, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400012	35	Article; Article		
J	Jones, Julian V.; Pyne, David B.; Haff, G. Gregory; Newton, Robert U.								Comparison of ballistic and strength training on swimming turn and dry-land leg extensor characteristics in elite swimmers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			262	269		10.1177/1747954117726017			APR 2018	2018	Swimmers undertake dry-land resistance training as part of their overall training regime in order to increase lower body force output, impulse and swim turn performance. We investigated whether short-term ballistic training or maximal strength training is more effective in enhancing leg extensor force characteristics during the swim turn. Twelve elite swimmers (10 males and 2 females 19.4 +/- 1.0 y) were assigned to either strength (n=6) or ballistic leg extensor (n=6) training based on their coaching group for a six-week period. All testing was conducted during the final training cycle towards the World Championships selection trials. Swimmers undertook dry-land testing of a squat jump on a portable force platform with bodyweight only and an additional 30kg load for males and 20kg load for females. On the same day, all swimmers performed a turn analysis using a fixed force platform within the pool wall. There were no substantial differences between the strength and ballistic groups after the six-week intervention. Only squat jump peak velocity (loaded) showed a moderately large standardized difference (-0.71,+/- 0.42m/s) after six weeks in the strength-trained group. Relative peak power (4.0 +/- 2.1W/kg), squat jump peak force (loaded and unloaded) (195.0,+/- 122.8N; 155.0,+/- 152.3 N), and squat jump impulse (unloaded) (2.9,+/- 2.1 N) all showed small and clear improvements with ballistic training over the six-week intervention. Both strength and ballistic dry-land training can improve aspects of the push-off stage of the swim turn providing programming options for swimming and strength and conditioning coaches.		[Jones, Julian V.] Australian Inst Sport, Strength & Conditioning Discipline, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Jones, Julian V.; Haff, G. Gregory; Newton, Robert U.] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Pyne, David B.] Australian Inst Sport, Physiol Discipline, Bruce, Australia; [Pyne, David B.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Newton, Robert U.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Med & Hlth Sci, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Newton, Robert U.] Univ Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Jones, Julian V.] Australian Inst Sport, Strength & Conditioning Discipline, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400011	34	Article; Article		
J	MacLellan, Justin; Callary, Bettina; Young, Bradley W.								Same coach, different approach? How masters and youth athletes perceive learning opportunities in training								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			167	178		10.1177/1747954117727202			APR 2018	2018	While traditional, coach-directed pedagogies have dominated youth sport coaching practice, little is known about how coaches orient their approaches to facilitate adult athletes' learning. This study explored a group of Masters athletes' and a group of youth athletes' perspectives of their common canoe/kayak coach's approaches, with an aim to understand if and how the coach's approaches differed based on the age cohort she was coaching. Four focus group interviews (two with each age cohort lasting 60-90min) were conducted with nine youth (five male, four female; 14-15 years old) and 12 Masters athletes (six male, six female; 27-70 years old). Data were inductively analysed resulting in three higher order themes: (1) communication, exchanges, and interactions; (2) coaching on the basis of the athletes' self-concept; (3) norms, goals, and expectations for learning within the climate. Results indicated that Masters athletes felt their coach responded well to their need for information, gave them room to make decisions, and engaged them in collaborative conversations. Youth athletes described their coach's approaches as more directive: she made decisions for when and how they trained, provided information linearly, and maintained a climate of highly competitive expectations. Whereas coaching approaches with Masters athletes closely paralleled andragogical principles, those for youth aligned with more directed instructional methods. Findings illustrate how one coach's approaches varied on a continuum from coach-directed (i.e. traditional pedagogical) to athlete-directed (i.e. andragogical) styles, both evident to some degree with each cohort.		[MacLellan, Justin; Callary, Bettina] Cape Breton Univ, POB 5300,1250 Grand Lake Rd, Sydney, NS B1P 6L2, Canada; [Young, Bradley W.] Univ Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [MacLellan, Justin] Cape Breton Univ, POB 5300,1250 Grand Lake Rd, Sydney, NS B1P 6L2, Canada								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400002	39	Article; Article		
J	Middlemas, Simon G.; Croft, Hayden G.; Watson, Fiona								Behind closed doors: The role of debriefing and feedback in a professional rugby team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			201	212		10.1177/1747954117739548			APR 2018	2018	Despite the popularity of performance analysis with high performance rugby environments, limited attention has been paid to understanding how coaches and practitioners use this information to impact on performance. The aim of this case study was to gain an in-depth understanding of how a professional rugby team - playing in New Zealand's ITM cup competition - uses the post-match and pre-match meetings to debrief after performance and preview prior to future performance. Multiple ethnographic techniques were employed to generate a comprehensive picture of the phenomena, including participant observation, video recordings, formal and informal interviews, field notes, descriptive statistics and document analysis. Each meeting was transcribed separately and analysed using an inductive content analysis process and themes were identified. The case study explores how four key factors - the role of the coach-facilitator, player engagement, leadership and the balance between reflection and preparation - impact on the debrief/preview process. The findings reveal that while considerable emphasis was placed on the importance of player learning and engagement in team meetings, delivery was often ad hoc, coach-driven and results-focused.		[Middlemas, Simon G.; Croft, Hayden G.; Watson, Fiona] Otago Polytech, Coll Te Oha Ora, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Middlemas, Simon G.] Otago Polytech, Coll Te Oha Ora, Sargood Ctr, Logan Pk Dr, Dunedin, New Zealand								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400005	35	Article; Article		
J	Barkell, James F.; O'Connor, Donna; Cotton, Wayne G.								Effective strategies at the ruck in men's and women's World Rugby Sevens Series								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	2			225	235		10.1177/1747954117718457			APR 2018	2018	Despite the growth of research on rugby sevens since its inclusion into the 2016 Olympic Games, some performance aspects of the game remain in their infancy. The ruck is one such area that has had little examination. The aim of this research was to examine the relationships between ruck actions and ruck success. A series of men's (N=2521) and women's (N=1474) rucks were coded from a sample of men's (N=117) and women's games (N=65) played within the World Rugby Sevens Series in 2014. Both attacking and defensive ruck actions were analysed. Variables included player numbers in the ruck, the actions of the first players to the ruck, ball placement from the tackled player, the body height, weight distribution and position of the attacking player in the ruck. Chi squared analysis identified that one versus one rucks were most commonly formed. If an attacking player arrived first, then there was a greater chance of maintaining possession compared with the first arrival being from the defensive side (p<0.001). Findings suggest that the squeeze ball placement technique is risky due to its association with turnovers and penalties against the attacking team in men's rugby sevens (p<0.001). The body position of the first arriving attacking player requires the attacking player to lower their shoulders below the opposition shoulders (p<0.001), use the tackled player to support their weight (p<0.001) and aim to ruck to a position past the ball rather than stopping with their bodies over the ball (p<0.001). Analysis of opposition actions identified that an early jackal was most successful at producing turnovers (p<0.001). Results illustrate successful ruck strategies in rugby sevens from both an attacking and a defensive viewpoint. Successful ruck actions are similar in both men's and women's rugby sevens.		[Barkell, James F.; O'Connor, Donna; Cotton, Wayne G.] Univ Sydney, Fac Educ & Social Work, Bldg A35, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia; [Barkell, James F.] Univ Sydney, Fac Educ & Social Work, Bldg A35, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000429847400007	34	Article; Article		
J	de Jesus, Karla; Ayala, Helon V. H.; de Jesus, Kelly; Coelho, Leandro dos S.; Medeiros, Alexandre I. A.; Abraldes, Jose A.; Vaz, Mario A. P.; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo								Modelling and Predicting Backstroke Start Performance Using Non-Linear And Linear Models								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			29	38		10.1515/hukin-2017-0133			MAR 2018	2018	Our aim was to compare non-linear and linear mathematical model responses for backstroke start performance prediction. Ten swimmers randomly completed eight 15 m backstroke starts with feet over the wedge, four with hands on the highest horizontal and four on the vertical handgrip. Swimmers were videotaped using a dual media camera setup, with the starts being performed over an instrumented block with four force plates. Artificial neural networks were applied to predict 5 m start time using kinematic and kinetic variables and to determine the accuracy of the mean absolute percentage error. Artificial neural networks predicted start time more robustly than the linear model with respect to changing training to the validation dataset for the vertical handgrip (3.95 +/- 1.67 vs. 5.92 +/- 3.27%). Artificial neural networks obtained a smaller mean absolute percentage error than the linear model in the horizontal (0.43 +/- 0.19 vs. 0.98 +/- 0.19%) and vertical handgrip (0.45 +/- 0.19 vs. 1.38 +/- 0.30%) using all input data. The best artificial neural network validation revealed a smaller mean absolute error than the linear model for the horizontal (0.007 vs. 0.04 s) and vertical handgrip (0.01 vs. 0.03 s). Artificial neural networks should be used for backstroke 5 m start time prediction due to the quite small differences among the elite level performances.		[de Jesus, Karla; de Jesus, Kelly; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [de Jesus, Karla; de Jesus, Kelly; Vaz, Mario A. P.; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Porto, Portugal; [de Jesus, Karla; de Jesus, Kelly] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Performance Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [de Jesus, Karla; de Jesus, Kelly] Univ Fed Amazonas, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Human Motor Behav Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Ayala, Helon V. H.; Coelho, Leandro dos S.] Pontificia Univ Catolica Parana, Ind & Syst Engn Grad Program, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Coelho, Leandro dos S.] Univ Fed Parana, Elect Engn Grad Program, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Medeiros, Alexandre I. A.] Univ Fed Ceara, Inst Phys Educ & Sport, Res Grp Biodynam Human Movement, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Abraldes, Jose A.] Univ Murcia, Fac Sports Sci, Dept Phys Act & Sport, Murcia, Spain; [Vaz, Mario A. P.] Univ Porto, Fac Engn, Inst Mech Engn & Ind Management, Porto, Portugal; [de Jesus, Karla] 3000 Gal Rodrigo Octavio Jordao Ramos Ave South, BR-69077000 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500003	31	Article; Article		
J	Trecroci, Athos; Milanovic, Zoran; Frontini, Matteo; Iaia, F. Marcello; Alberti, Giampietro								Physical Performance Comparison Between Under 15 Elite and Sub-Elite Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			209	216		10.1515/hukin-2017-0126			MAR 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to compare the physical performance profile among young soccer players of different competitive levels. Two teams of elite (n = 22) and sub-elite (n = 22) soccer players at national (highly skilled) and regional (moderately skilled) level were recruited in the study. All participants were tested using a modified Illinois change of direction speed test, a T-drill with and without a ball, a countermovement jump, and a 10-m sprint. The analysis revealed significant differences in favor of elite players in sprint (d = 1.54, large) and vertical jump (d = 2.03, very large) outcomes, while no differences were observed in both modified Illinois change of direction speed (d = 0.16, trivial) and T-drill (d = 0.20, small) tests between the groups. The ability to change direction and speed with and without a ball was found not to be suitable enough to highlight the difference among youth players with moderate-to-high level of play. In conclusion, multi-testing approach based on task-related power should include vertical jump and sprint performance to delineate players of a higher level.		[Trecroci, Athos; Frontini, Matteo; Iaia, F. Marcello; Alberti, Giampietro] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Milanovic, Zoran] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Nish, Serbia; [Trecroci, Athos] Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Via Kramer 4-A, I-20129 Milan, Italy								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500019	28	Article; Article		
J	Davidek, Pavel; Andel, Ross; Kobesova, Alena								Influence of Dynamic Neuromuscular Stabilization Approach on Maximum Kayak Paddling Force								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			15	27		10.1515/hukin-2017-0127			MAR 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of Dynamic Neuromuscular Stabilization (DNS) exercise on maximum paddling force (PF) and self-reported pain perception in the shoulder girdle area in flatwater kayakers. Twenty male flatwater kayakers from a local club (age = 21.9 +/- 2.4 years, body height = 185.1 +/- 7.9 cm, body mass = 83.9 +/- 9.1 kg) were randomly assigned to the intervention or control groups. During the 6-week study, subjects from both groups performed standard off-season training. Additionally, the intervention group engaged in a DNS-based core stabilization exercise program (quadruped exercise, side sitting exercise, sitting exercise and squat exercise) after each standard training session. Using a kayak ergometer, the maximum PF stroke was measured four times during the six weeks. All subjects completed the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire before and after the 6-week interval to evaluate subjective pain perception in the shoulder girdle area. Initially, no significant differences in maximum PF and the DASH questionnaire were identified between the two groups. Repeated measures analysis of variance indicated that the experimental group improved significantly compared to the control group on maximum PF (p = .004; Cohen's d = .85), but not on the DASH questionnaire score (p = .731) during the study. Integration of DNS with traditional flatwater kayak training may significantly increase maximum PF, but may not affect pain perception to the same extent.		[Davidek, Pavel] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Jose Martiho 31, Prague 16252 6, Czech Republic; [Andel, Ross] Univ S Florida, Sch Aging Studies, Tampa, FL USA; [Andel, Ross] St Annes Univ Hosp, Int Clin Res Ctr, Brno, Czech Republic; [Kobesova, Alena] Charles Univ Prague, Univ Hosp Motol, Fac Med 2, Dept Rehabil & Sports Med, Prague, Czech Republic; [Davidek, Pavel] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Jose Martiho 31, Prague 16252 6, Czech Republic								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500002	31	Article; Article		
J	Struhar, Ivan; Kumstat, Michal; Kralova, Dagmar Moc								Effect of Compression Garments on Physiological Responses After Uphill Running								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			119	129		10.1515/hukin-2017-0136			MAR 2018	2018	Limited practical recommendations related to wearing compression garments for athletes can be drawn from the literature at the present time. We aimed to identify the effects of compression garments on physiological and perceptual measures of performance and recovery after uphill running with different pressure and distributions of applied compression. In a random, double blinded study, 10 trained male runners undertook three 8 km treadmill runs at a 6% elevation rate, with the intensity of 75% VO2max while wearing low, medium grade compression garments and high reverse grade compression. In all the trials, compression garments were worn during 4 hours post run. Creatine kinase, measurements of muscle soreness, ankle strength of plantar/dorsal flexors and mean performance time were then measured. The best mean performance time was observed in the medium grade compression garments with the time difference being: medium grade compression garments vs. high reverse grade compression garments. A positive trend in increasing peak torque of plantar flexion (60 degrees center dot s(-1), 120 degrees center dot s(-1)) was found in the medium grade compression garments: a difference between 24 and 48 hours post run. The highest pain tolerance shift in the gastrocnemius muscle was the medium grade compression garments, 24 hour post run, with the shift being +11.37% for the lateral head and 6.63% for the medial head. In conclusion, a beneficial trend in the promotion of running performance and decreasing muscle soreness within 24 hour post exercise was apparent in medium grade compression garments.		[Struhar, Ivan; Kumstat, Michal; Kralova, Dagmar Moc] Masaryk Univ, Dept Hlth Promot, Fac Sports Studies, Kamenice 753-5, Brno 62500, Czech Republic; [Struhar, Ivan] Masaryk Univ, Dept Hlth Promot, Fac Sports Studies, Kamenice 753-5, Brno 62500, Czech Republic								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500011	21	Article; Article		
J	Valhondo, Alvaro; Fernandez-Echeverria, Carmen; Gonzalez-Silva, Jara; Claver, Fernando; Perla Moreno, M.								Variables that Predict Serve Efficacy in Elite Men's Volleyball with Different Quality of Opposition Sets								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			167	177		10.1515/hukin-2017-0119			MAR 2018	2018	The objective of this study was to determine the variables that predicted serve efficacy in elite men's volleyball, in sets with different quality of opposition. 3292 serve actions were analysed, of which 2254 were carried out in high quality of opposition sets and 1038 actions were in low quality of opposition sets, corresponding to a total of 24 matches played during the Men's European Volleyball Championships held in 2011. The independent variables considered in this study were the serve zone, serve type, serving player, serve direction, reception zone, receiving player and reception type; the dependent variable was serve efficacy and the situational variable was quality of opposition sets. The variables that acted as predictors in both high and low quality of opposition sets were the serving player, reception zone and reception type. The serve type variable only acted as a predictor in high quality of opposition sets, while the serve zone variable only acted as a predictor in low quality of opposition sets. These results may provide important guidance in men's volleyball training processes.		[Valhondo, Alvaro; Fernandez-Echeverria, Carmen; Gonzalez-Silva, Jara; Claver, Fernando; Perla Moreno, M.] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Av Univ S-N, Caceres 1003, Spain; [Fernandez-Echeverria, Carmen] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Av Univ S-N, Caceres 1003, Spain								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500015	29	Article; Article		
J	Mendes, Bruno; Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Mauricio, Nuno								Variance In Prominence Levels and in Patterns of Passing Sequences in Elite and Youth Soccer Players: A Network Approach								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			141	153		10.1515/hukin-2017-0117			MAR 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to quantify the prominence levels of elite and highly competitive young soccer players. This study also analyzed the variation in general network properties at different competitive levels and periods of the season. A total of 132 matches, played by 28 teams during the 2015/2016 season, were analyzed. The results revealed significant differences in the composition of general network measures considering the competitive level (p = 0.002; ES = 0.077) and according to the location of the match (p = 0.001; ES = 0.147). There were positive correlations between network density and the final score (rho = 0.172) and negative correlations between network density and goals conceded (rho = -0.300). Significant differences in the composite of centralities were found between positions (p = 0.001; ES = 0.293; moderate effect) and the location of the match (p = 0.001; ES = 0.013; no effect). This revealed that the general properties of cooperation increased with the competitive level, improved during the middle of the season and were better in home matches. Midfielders were most prominent players in elite and U19 teams in the mid-season and central defenders had the most prominent centralities in U17 and U15 during the early and late periods of the season.		[Mendes, Bruno; Mauricio, Nuno] Benfica LAB, Sport Lisboa & Benfica, Lisbon, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Polytech Inst Viana do Castelo, Sch Sport & Leisure, Complexo Desport & Lazer Melgaco Monte Prado, P-4960320 Melgaco, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Telecommun, Covilha, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Polytech Inst Viana do Castelo, Sch Sport & Leisure, Complexo Desport & Lazer Melgaco Monte Prado, P-4960320 Melgaco, Portugal								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500013	34	Article; Article		
J	Paraskevas, Giorgos; Hadjicharalambous, Marios								Aerobic Fitness of Starter and Non-Starter Soccer Players in the Champion's League								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			99	108		10.1515/hukin-2017-0135			MAR 2018	2018	To identify individual response patterns in selected aerobic fitness variables of regular starters (ST; N = 7) and non-starters (Non-ST; N = 10), top level professional soccer players were tested for maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), velocity at 4 mM of lactate (V4), velocity at maximal oxygen uptake (vVO(2max)) and oxygen pulse (O-2-pulse) in July and December following consecutive periods of fixture congestion. V4 was the only variable that increased significantly in December compared to July (15.1 +/- 0.5 vs. 14.6 +/- 0.5, p = 0.001). There was an almost certain beneficial large mean team change for V4 (ES = 1.2 (0.67; 1.57), 100/0/0), while beneficial mean team changes were less likely for vVO2max and O-2-pulse [ ES = 0.31 (-0.08; 0.70), 68/30/2 and ES = 0.24 (0.01; 0.49), 64/36/0, respectively] and unclear for VO2max (ES = 0.02 (-0.31; 0.70), 18/69/13). With the exception of V4 where 10 out of 17 players (7 ST and 3 Non-ST) showed positive changes higher than the biological variability, all other variables were characterized by a substantial proportion of changes lower than the biological variability. The present study demonstrated that aerobic fitness variables that require maximal effort may be characterized by greater variability of the individual response pattern compared to that of submaximal aerobic fitness variables irrespective of the accumulated game time. Submaximal aerobic fitness variables appear to be more informative in the physiological evaluation of top level soccer players and this may be an advantage during exposure to periods of consecutive games.		[Paraskevas, Giorgos; Hadjicharalambous, Marios] Univ Nicosia, Dept Life & Hlth Sci, Nicosia, Cyprus; [Hadjicharalambous, Marios] Univ Nicosia, Dept Life & Hlth Sci, Nicosia, Cyprus								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500009	30	Article; Article		
J	Marcos-Serrano, Marta; Olcina, Guillermo; Crespo, Carmen; Brooks, Darrell; Timon, Rafael								Urinary Steroid Profile in Ironman Triathletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			109	117		10.1515/hukin-2017-0130			MAR 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to determine variations in the urinary steroid profile of triathletes following an Ironman event. A total of 10 male participants (age = 36.0 +/- 1.27 years; body height = 179.29 +/- 10.77 cm; body mass = 74.50 +/- 1.04 kg) completed an Ironman Championship. Urine samples were collected before, immediately after, and 24 hours following the race. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS) was used to detect and quantify catabolic and anabolic hormones: Androsterone, Dehydroepiandrosteone (DHEA), Androstenedione and Testosterone (T), Beta-estradiol, Estrone, Progesterone, Cortisol (C), Cortisone, Tetrahydrocortisol (THE) and Tetrahydrocortisone (THF). These were measured in their glucuroconjugated and free forms. Androsterone (3297.80 +/- 756.83 vs. 2154.26 +/- 1375.38), DHEA (47.80 +/- 19.21 vs. 32.62 +/- 15.96) and Beta-estradiol (59.36 +/- 11.7 vs. 41.67 +/- 10.59) levels decreased after the event. The significant decrease of DHEA (47.80 +/- 19.21 vs. 32.11 +/- 14.03) remained at 24 hours. Cortisol (200.38 +/- 56.60 vs. 257.10 +/- 74.00) and THE (238.65 +/- 81.55 vs. 289.62 +/- 77.13) increased after exercise and remained elevated 24 hours later (200.38 +/- 56.60 vs. 252.48 +/- 62.09; 238.65 +/- 81.55 vs. 284.20 +/- 66.66). The following anabolic/catabolic ratios fell after exercise: T/C (0.85 +/- 0.54 vs. 0.54 +/- 0.29), T/THE (0.66 +/- 0.29 vs. 0.40 +/- 0.08), T/THE+ THF (0.38 +/- 0.17 vs. 0.24 +/- 0.06), DHEA/THE (0.22 +/- 0.05 vs. 0.12 +/- 0.05), DHEA/THF (0.34 +/- 0.02 vs. 0.21 +/- 0.01) and DHEA/THE+THF (0.12 +/- 0.02 vs. 0.08 +/- 0.03). The steroid profile showed that athletes were fatigued after finishing the competition and a catabolic state remained 24 hours later.		[Marcos-Serrano, Marta; Olcina, Guillermo; Timon, Rafael] Univ Extremadura, Sports Sci Fac, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Caceres, Spain; [Crespo, Carmen] Univ Extremadura, Sports Sci Fac, Dept Physiol, Caceres, Spain; [Brooks, Darrell] Univ Cent Lancashire, Sch Pharm & Biomed Sci, Preston, Lancs, England; [Marcos-Serrano, Marta] Univ Extremadura, Sports Sci Fac, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500010	35	Article; Article		
J	Rochat, Nadege; Hauw, Denis; Guer, Gaelle; Seifert, Ludovic								Understanding Trail Runners' Activity on Online Community Forums: An Inductive Analysis of Discussion Topics								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			263	276		10.1515/hukin-2017-0125			MAR 2018	2018	Recreational trail runners often participate in online community forums where they can freely read posted messages, join discussions and/or introduce new discussion topics. This tool can enhance learning as runners connect with other trail runners and reflect on how they can better organize their own practice. Studying forum activity would provide greater insight into the relationship between field practice and dedicated forums. The aim of this study was therefore to detect the topics discussed online by trail runners in order to understand how they collectively look for solutions that help them adapt to issues that emerge during actual practice. The discussion topics (n = 171) on the forum hosted by the Raidlight brand were examined using inductive content analysis, which distinguished two general dimensions. The first dimension was training and had four first-order themes (i.e., "specific trail running sessions", "complementary trail running sessions". "training plans" and "specific questions about races") grouped into two second-order themes (i.e., "training session contents" and "structure and schedule"). The second dimension was health and had seven first-order themes (i.e., "tendinitis", "muscle issues", "foot issues", "sprains and fractures", "pain", "physiology" and "substances and practitioners") grouped into two second-order themes (i.e., "pain and injury" and "prevention"). The results indicate that the issues that trail runners discuss on forums are significant and that the successions of questions and solutions are a fruitful means for building, enriching and adjusting their activity as they cope with constraints. As a practical consequence, suggestions for improving such online platforms are made.		[Rochat, Nadege] Co Raidlight Vert SAS Outdoor Lab, St Pierre De Chartreu, France; [Rochat, Nadege; Hauw, Denis; Guer, Gaelle] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Rochat, Nadege; Seifert, Ludovic] Normandie Univ, UNIROUEN, CETAPS, Rouen, France; [Rochat, Nadege] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sci Sport, Quartier UNIL Mouline Bat Geopolis, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500024	47	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Rodriguez, Alejandro; Petisco, Cristina; Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo; Martinez, Cristian; Nakamura, Fabio Y.								Effects of Different Post-Activation Potentiation Warm-Ups on Repeated Sprint Ability in Soccer Players from Different Competitive Levels								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			189	197		10.1515/hukin-2017-0131			MAR 2018	2018	This study aimed to compare the effects of a traditional warm-up with two post-activation potentiation (PAP) warm-up strategies on the repeated sprint ability (RSA) of soccer players from national (NL) and regional (RL) competitive levels. Sixteen young players (NL, n = 8, age = 20.7 +/- 1.4 y, body mass = 68.5 +/- 7.0 kg, body height = 177.4 +/- 5.2 cm; RL, n = 8, age = 20.8 +/- 1.0 y, body mass = 68.7 +/- 4.0 kg, body height = 176.6 +/- 5.6 cm) were recruited to complete a traditional warm-up (CONTROL), a PAP warm-up incorporating squats with a load (similar to 60% 1RM) that allowed a high speed (1 m/s) of movement and a high number of repetitions (PAP-1), and a PAP warm-up with a load (similar to 90% 1RM) that allowed a moderate speed (0.5 m/s) of movement and a reduced number of repetitions (PAP-0.5). A RSA test (six 20-m sprints with 20 s of recovery) was performed 5 min after the PAP warm-up to assess the effects of the different protocols on the fastest sprint (RSAb) and the mean time of all sprints (RSAm). A meaningful improvement of RSA performance was observed with PAP-0.5, attaining a large effect on NL (RSAb, ES = -1.5; RSAm, ES = -1.3) and only a small effect on RL athletes (RSAb and RSAm, ES = -0.2). Moreover, when each RSA sprint performance was compared between NL and RL players, after PAP-0.5 greater performance for all sprints was observed in the NL players. Therefore, adding a heavy strength-based conditioning exercise during the warm-up prior to a RSA test may induce significant performance improvements in NL, but only small effects in RL players.		[Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier; Petisco, Cristina] Pontifical Univ Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain; [Rodriguez, Alejandro] Isabel I Univ, Burgos, Spain; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Dept Phys Act Sci, Osorno, Chile; [Ramirez-Campillo, Rodrigo] Univ Los Lagos, Nucleus Hlth Phys Act & Sports, Lab Measurement & Assessment Sports Performance, Osorno, Chile; [Martinez, Cristian] Univ La Frontera, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Recreat, Temuco, Chile; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Via Vestini 31, I-66100 Chieti, Italy; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] James Cook Univ, Coll Healthcare Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] G dAnnunzio Univ Chieti Pescara, Dept Med & Aging Sci, Via Vestini 31, I-66100 Chieti, Italy								51							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500017	46	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Ying-Chieh; Wang, Ming-Yueh; Hsu, Chi-Yueh								Competition Field Perceptions of Table-tennis Athletes and their Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			241	247		10.1515/hukin-2017-0123			MAR 2018	2018	The distinction between positive and negative perceptions is fundamental in perception models. The purpose of this study was to investigate the correlation between field perceptions of table tennis players and the outcome (net result) during the matches in a competition. Experimental data were collected from 10 elite table tennis players and analysed. The results addressed the following three competition field perceptions: (1) before the service, the player's positive perceptions had significant effect on the positive outcome (winning rate) of that service; (2) the perception after the net result of the previous service increased the positive outcome of the next service, and (3) the player's positive/negative perception during the matches affected the win/loss outcome of that competition. In conclusion, the player's positive perceptions enhanced their winning rate during table tennis competitions. Therefore, during the training program, coaches need to develop positive perceptions and strengthen the psychological quality of table tennis players.		[Liu, Ying-Chieh] Chaoyang Univ Technol, Dept Informat Management, Taichung 41349, Taiwan; [Wang, Ming-Yueh] Natl Univ Kaohsiung, Dept Phys Educ, Kaohsiung 811, Taiwan; [Hsu, Chi-Yueh] Chaoyang Univ Technol, Dept Leisure Serv Management, Taichung 41349, Taiwan; [Hsu, Chi-Yueh] Chaoyang Univ Technol, Dept Leisure Serv Management, Taichung 41349, Taiwan								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500022	23	Article; Article		
J	Furmanek, Mariusz P.; Slomka, Kajetan J.; Sobiesiak, Andrzej; Rzepko, Marian; Juras, Grzegorz								The Effects of Cryotherapy on Knee Joint Position Sense and Force Production Sense in Healthy Individuals								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			39	51		10.1515/hukin-2017-0106			MAR 2018	2018	The proprioceptive information received from mechanoreceptors is potentially responsible for controlling the joint position and force differentiation. However, it is unknown whether cryotherapy influences this complex mechanism. Previously reported results are not universally conclusive and sometimes even contradictory. The main objective of this study was to investigate the impact of local cryotherapy on knee joint position sense (JPS) and force production sense (FPS). The study group consisted of 55 healthy participants (age: 21 +/- 2 years, body height: 171.2 +/- 9 cm, body mass: 63.3 +/- 12 kg, BMI: 21.5 +/- 2.6). Local cooling was achieved with the use of gel-packs cooled to -2 +/- 2.5 degrees C and applied simultaneously over the knee joint and the quadriceps femoris muscle for 20 minutes. JPS and FPS were evaluated using the Biodex System 4 Pro apparatus. Repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) did not show any statistically significant changes of the JPS and FPS under application of cryotherapy for all analyzed variables: the JPS's absolute error (p = 0.976), its relative error (p = 0.295), and its variable error (p = 0.489); the FPS's absolute error (p = 0.688), its relative error (p = 0.193), and its variable error (p = 0.123). The results indicate that local cooling does not affect proprioceptive acuity of the healthy knee joint. They also suggest that local limited cooling before physical activity at low velocity did not present health or injury risk in this particular study group.		[Furmanek, Mariusz P.; Slomka, Kajetan J.; Juras, Grzegorz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Human Motor Behav, 72A Mikolowska St, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland; [Sobiesiak, Andrzej] Univ Windsor, Dept Mech Automot & Mat Engn, Windsor, ON, Canada; [Rzepko, Marian] Univ Rzeszow, Fac Phys Educ, Rzeszow, Poland; [Furmanek, Mariusz P.] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Human Motor Behav, 72A Mikolowska St, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500004	61	Article; Article		
J	Kuzuhara, Kenji; Shibata, Masashi; Iguchi, Junta; Uchida, Ryo								Functional Movements in Japanese Mini-Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				61	1			53	62		10.1515/hukin-2017-0128			MAR 2018	2018	Functional movement screen (FMS) has been used to establish normative data and determine potential injury risk for young adults and athletes, but there are few data in elementary school-age children. The purpose of this study was to establish fundamental values for the FMS in elementary school-age mini-basketball players. Secondary purposes were to examine relationships between functional movement patterns and age, peak height velocity (PHV), and body mass index (BMI), and to compare functional movement patterns between boys and girls and between individuals with and without a history of injury. The mean composite FMS score was 16.5 +/- 2.2 (16.5 +/- 2.4 for boys, 16.5 +/- 1.7 for girls). The composite FMS score was positively correlated with age (r = .312) and negatively correlated with the BMI (r = -.371). However, the FMS score was not correlated with PHV or with PHV age. The FMS score was not different between boys and girls or between individuals who reported a previous injury and those who did not. However, boys in the mini-basketball teams performed better than girls on the trunk stability push-up and rotary stability tests. Age and the body mass index were significantly associated with better and poorer functional movement, respectively.		[Kuzuhara, Kenji] Aichi Toho Univ, Fac Human Hlth, Dept Human Hlth, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Shibata, Masashi] Univ Hyogo, Coll Nursing Art & Sci, Lab Exercise Sci, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Iguchi, Junta] Kyoto Gakuen Univ, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Dept Hlth & Sports Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Kuzuhara, Kenji; Uchida, Ryo] Nagoya Univ, Grad Sch Educ & Human Dev, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; [Kuzuhara, Kenji] Aichi Toho Univ, Dept Human Hlth, Fac Human Hlth, Meito Ku, 3-11 Heiwagaoka, Nagoya, Aichi 4658515, Japan								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000428411500005	26	Article; Article		
J	Godsiff, David T.; Coe, Shelly; Elsworth-Edelsten, Charlotte; Collett, Johnny; Howells, Ken; Morris, Martyn; Dawes, Helen								Exploring the Metabolic and Perceptual Correlates of Self-Selected Walking Speed under Constrained and Un-Constrained Conditions								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			1	6					MAR 2018	2018	Mechanisms underpinning self-selected walking speed (SSWS) are poorly understood. The present study investigated the extent to which SSWS is related to metabolism, energy cost, and/or perceptual parameters during both normal and artificially constrained walking. Fourteen participants with no pathology affecting gait were tested under standard conditions. Subjects walked on a motorized treadmill at speeds derived from their SSWS as a continuous protocol. RPE scores (CR10) and expired air to calculate energy cost (J.kg(-1).m(-1)) and carbohydrate (CHO) oxidation rate (J.kg(-1).min(-1)) were collected during minutes 3-4 at each speed. Eight individuals were re-tested under the same conditions within one week with a hip and knee-brace to immobilize their right leg. Deflection in RPE scores (CR10) and CHO oxidation rate (J.kg(-1).min(-1)) were not related to SSWS (five and three people had deflections in the defined range of SSWS in constrained and unconstrained conditions, respectively) (p > 0.05). Constrained walking elicited a higher energy cost (J.kg(1).m(-1)) and slower SSWS (p < 0.05) versus normal walking. RPE (CR10) was not significantly different between walking conditions or at SSWS (p > 0.05). SSWS did not occur at a minimum energy cost (J.kg(-1).m(-1)) in either condition, however, the size of the minimum energy cost to SSWS disparity was the same (Froude {Fr} = 0.09) in both conditions (p = 0.36). Perceptions of exertion can modify walking patterns and therefore SSWS and metabolism/energy cost are not directly related. Strategies which minimize perceived exertion may enable faster walking in people with altered gait as our findings indicate they should self-optimize to the same extent under different conditions.		[Godsiff, David T.; Coe, Shelly; Collett, Johnny; Howells, Ken; Morris, Martyn; Dawes, Helen] Oxford Brookes Univ, Gipsy Lane, Oxford OX30BP, England; [Elsworth-Edelsten, Charlotte] Canterbury Christ Church Univ, Sch Human & Life Sci, Sport & Exercise Sci, Canterbury, Kent, England; [Coe, Shelly] Oxford Brookes Univ, Gipsy Lane, Oxford OX30BP, England								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500001	23	Article; Article		
J	Colyer, Steffi L.; McGuigan, Polly M.								Textile Electrodes Embedded in Clothing: A Practical Alternative to Traditional Surface Electromyography when Assessing Muscle Excitation during Functional Movements								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			101	109					MAR 2018	2018	Textile electromyography (EMG) electrodes embedded in clothing allow muscle excitation to be recorded in previously inaccessible settings; however, their ability to accurately and reliably measure EMG during dynamic tasks remains largely unexplored. To quantify the validity and reliability of textile electrodes, 16 recreationally active males completed two identical testing sessions, within which three functional movements (run, cycle and squat) were performed twice: once wearing EMG shorts (measuring quadriceps, hamstrings and gluteals myoelectric activity) and once with surface EMG electrodes attached to the vastus lateralis, biceps femoris and gluteus maximus. EMG signals were identically processed to provide average rectified EMG (normalized to walking) and excitation length. Results were compared across measurement systems and demonstrated good agreement between the magnitude of muscle excitation when EMG activity was lower, but agreement was poorer when excitation was higher. The length of excitation bursts was consistently longer when measured using textile vs. surface EMG electrodes. Comparable between-session (day-to-day) repeatability was found for average rectified EMG (mean coefficient of variation, CV: 42.6 and 41.2%) and excitation length (CV: 12.9 and 9.8%) when using textile and surface EMG, respectively. Additionally, similar within-session repeatability (CV) was recorded for average rectified EMG (13.8 and 14.1%) and excitation length (13.0 and 12.7%) for textile and surface electrodes, respectively. Generally, textile EMG electrodes appear to be capable of providing comparable muscle excitation information and reproducibility to surface EMG during dynamic tasks. Textile EMG shorts could therefore be a practical alternative to traditional laboratory-based methods allowing muscle excitation information to be collected in more externally-valid training environments.		[Colyer, Steffi L.; McGuigan, Polly M.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England; [Colyer, Steffi L.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath BA2 7AY, Avon, England								45							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500012	39	Article; Article		
J	Leonska-Duniec, Agata; Jastrzebski, Zbigniew; Jazdzewska, Aleksandra; Moska, Waldemar; Lulinska-Kuklik, Ewelina; Sawczuk, Marek; Gubaydullina, Svetlana I.; Shakirova, Alsu T.; Cieszczyk, Pawel; Maszczyk, Adam; Ahmetov, Ildus I.								Individual Responsiveness to Exercise-Induced Fat Loss and Improvement of Metabolic Profile in Young Women is Associated with Polymorphisms of Adrenergic Receptor Genes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			134	144					MAR 2018	2018	The effectiveness of physical exercise on fat loss and improvement of aerobic capacity varies considerably between individuals. A strong linkage exists between common allelic variants of the adrenergic receptor genes and weight gain, as well as changes in body composition. Therefore we aimed to check if body composition and metabolic variables were modulated by the ADRB2 (Gly16Arg and Glu27Gln), ADRB3 (Trp64Arg) and ADRA2A (rs553668 G/A) gene polymorphisms in 163 Polish sedentary women (age 19-24; body mass index (BMI) 21.7 +/- 0.2 kg.m(-2)) involved in a 12-week aerobic training program. Only 74.8% of participants lost fat mass. On average, participants lost 5.8(10.4)% of their relative fat mass with training (range: + 28.3 to -63.6%). The improvement of VO2max was significantly greater in women who could lose their fat mass compared to women who were unsuccessful in fat loss (4.5 (5.6)% vs. 1.5 (3.8)%; p = 0.0045). The carriers of a low number (0-3) of obesity-related risk alleles (ADRB2 Gly16, ADRB2 Glu27, ADRA2A rs553668 G) were more successful in fat mass loss compared to the carriers of a high number (5-6) of risk alleles (7.7 (9.8) vs 4.0 (9.4)%, p = 0.0362). The presented results support the assumption that variation within adrenergic receptor genes contributes to interindividual changes of body composition in response to physical exercise.		[Leonska-Duniec, Agata; Jastrzebski, Zbigniew; Jazdzewska, Aleksandra; Moska, Waldemar; Lulinska-Kuklik, Ewelina; Sawczuk, Marek] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Tourism & Recreat, Gdansk, Poland; [Gubaydullina, Svetlana I.] Volga Region State Acad Phys Culture Sport & Tour, Sport Technol Res Ctr, Kazan, Russia; [Shakirova, Alsu T.] Kazan State Med Univ, Dept Propaedeut Childhood Dis, Kazan, Russia; [Cieszczyk, Pawel] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, Fac Phys Educ, Gdansk, Poland; [Maszczyk, Adam] Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Theory & Practice Sport, Katowice, Poland; [Ahmetov, Ildus I.] St Petersburg Res Inst Phys Culture, Sports Genet Lab, St Petersburg, Russia; [Ahmetov, Ildus I.] Kazan State Med Univ, Lab Mol Genet, Kazan, Russia; [Leonska-Duniec, Agata] Kazan State Med Univ, 6-30 Tolstoy St, Kazan 420015, Russia								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500016	70	Article; Article		
J	Cho, Jieun; Lee, Kyeongbong; Kim, Minkyu; Hahn, Joohee; Lee, Wanhee								The Effects of Double Oscillation Exercise Combined with Elastic Band Exercise on Scapular Stabilizing Muscle Strength and Thickness in Healthy Young Individuals: A Randomized Controlled Pilot Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			7	16					MAR 2018	2018	This study aimed to investigate the effect of double oscillation exercise combined with elastic band exercise on the strength and thickness ratio of the scapular stabilizing muscles in healthy young individuals. A total of 30 subjects (17 male, 13 female) were randomly assigned to an elastic band exercise group (EBG) (n = 15) or an elastic band plus double oscillation exercise group (EB-DOG) (n = 15). A total of 28 subjects completed the experiment and evaluation. Patients in the EBG performed the elastic band exercise for shoulder flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, horizontal abduction/adduction, and internal/external rotation for 30 minutes/session, five times/week, for four weeks. Patients in the EB-DOG performed the elastic band exercise for 15 minutes and the double oscillation exercise in three planes of motion (frontal, sagittal, and transverse), using a Bodyblade (R) for 15 minutes/session, five times/week, for four weeks. Shoulder muscle strength was assessed using a manual muscle test device during maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC), while the thicknesses of the scapular stabilizing muscles were assessed using rehabilitative ultrasound imaging both at rest and during MVIC. Both groups had significant effects on shoulder muscle strength, however, there was no significant difference between the two groups for change value of shoulder muscle strength (Bonferroni correction p < 0.005). Significant differences were observed in the group x time interactions for horizontal abduction, external rotation, and protraction. There was a statistically significant improvement in thickness ratio of LT and SA in the EB-DOG and no significant difference was founded in EBG (Bonferroni correction p < 0.006). In comparison between the two groups, EB-DOG showed a significant change in the thickness ratio of LT compared to EBG. In addition, significant differences were observed for the group x time interactions for the thickness ratio of the LT (F = 12.177, P = 0.002; Bonferroni correction p < 0.006). The double oscillation exercise combined with elastic band exercise more effectively increased the thickness of the shoulder stabilizing muscles compared with the resistance exercise alone.		[Cho, Jieun; Hahn, Joohee] Sahmyook Univ, Grad Sch, Dept Phys Therapy, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Kyeongbong] Samsung Med Ctr, Dept Phys & Rehabil, Phys Therapy Part, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Minkyu] Myongji Choonhey Rehabil Hosp, Dept Phys Therapy, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Wanhee] Sahmyook Univ, Coll Hlth & Welf, Dept Phys Therapy, Seoul, South Korea; [Cho, Jieun] Natl Rehabil Ctr, Translat Res Ctr Rehabil Robot, Dept Rehabil & Assist Technol, Seoul, South Korea; [Lee, Wanhee] Sahmyook Univ, Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 815 Hwarang Ro, Seoul 01795, South Korea; [Lee, Wanhee] Sahmyook Univ, Coll Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, 815 Hwarang Ro, Seoul 01795, South Korea								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500002	42	Article; Article		
J	Caldwell, Lydia K.; DuPont, William H.; Beeler, Matthew K.; Post, Emily M.; Barnhart, Emily C.; Hardesty, Vincent H.; Anders, John P.; Borden, Emily C.; Volek, Jeff S.; Kraemer, William J.								The Effects of a Korean Ginseng, GINST15, on Perceptual Effort, Psychomotor Performance, and Physical Performance in Men and Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			92	100					MAR 2018	2018	The purpose of this double-blind, placebo-controlled investigation was to examine the effects of a Korean Ginseng (GINST15) on measures of perception and physical performance following an acute bout of resistance exercise. Ten women (age: 38.7 +/- 7.8 years; height: 1.64 +/- 0.05 m; body mass: 76.0 +/- 11.6 kg) and nine men (age: 41.2. +/- 9.7 years; height: 1.77 +/- 0.05 m; body mass: 88.5 +/- 5.0 kg) completed the investigation. Participants were randomized to a three-cycle testing scheme consisting of high dose ginseng (HIGH: 960 mg/day), low dose ginseng (LOW: 160 mg/day) and placebo (PBO: 0 mg/day). After 14 days of supplementation participants returned to the laboratory for an acute resistance exercise trial (5 sets of 12 repetitions of the leg press at 70% of one-repetition-maximum [1RM]). Ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) were assessed after each set. Muscle pain/soreness was assessed before exercise and 24 hours post exercise. Psychomotor performance and peak power were measured before exercise, immediately post exercise and 24 hours after exercise. Each treatment cycle was separated by a minimum one-week washout period. HIGH significantly reduced perceived exertion during exercise. HIGH and LOW significantly reduced change in muscle soreness at 24 hours post exercise. Analysis of peak power demonstrated the presence of responders (n = 13) and non-responders (n = 6). Responders showed a significant effect of HIGH GINST15 on maintenance of neuromuscular function. The appearance of responders and non-responders, could explain the mixed literature base on the ergogenic properties of ginseng.		[Caldwell, Lydia K.; DuPont, William H.; Beeler, Matthew K.; Post, Emily M.; Barnhart, Emily C.; Hardesty, Vincent H.; Anders, John P.; Borden, Emily C.; Volek, Jeff S.; Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, A054 PAES Bldg,305 Annie & John Glenn Ave, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, A054 PAES Bldg,305 Annie & John Glenn Ave, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500011	50	Article; Article		
J	Carlsson, Tomas; Isberg, Jenny; Nilsson, Johnny; Carlsson, Magnus								The Influence of Task Conditions on Side Foot-Kick Accuracy among Swedish First League Women's Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			74	81					MAR 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of the task conditions on 20-m side foot-kick accuracy among Swedish first league women's soccer players. Twenty-three players performed three side foot-kick tests under different task conditions: stationary ball using match-relevant ball speed (SBRS) and maximal ball speed (SBMS) and a 5-m run with the ball from different approach angles (0 degrees, 30 degrees, and 60 degrees) to a predetermined position, where passing of the ball on the move was executed using matchrelevant ball speed (RBRS). With each test, the players performed 30 side-foot kicks, alternating between kicking legs with the aim of hitting a target stick. The accuracy was determined using video analysis. The side foot-kick accuracy was significantly greater for SBRS, compared to RBRS and SBMS. For all three test variables, the preferred leg displayed greater accuracy. The preferred leg's accuracy was greater for the approach angle of 30 degrees compared to both 0 degrees and 60 degrees. A significant deviation from the target stick was found for the straight-ahead approach, in which the right-foot and left-foot kicks deviated to respectively the left and right of the stick; in contrast, for the approach angle of 60 degrees, the deviation from the target stick was on the opposite side of the approach side for both legs.		[Carlsson, Tomas; Isberg, Jenny; Nilsson, Johnny; Carlsson, Magnus] Dalarna Univ, Sch Educ Hlth & Social Studies, S-79188 Falun, Sweden; [Carlsson, Tomas] Dalarna Univ, Sch Educ Hlth & Social Studies, S-79188 Falun, Sweden								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500009	32	Article; Article		
J	Overdevest, Elvera; Wouters, Jeroen A.; Wolfs, Kevin H. M.; van Leeuwen, Job J. M.; Possemiers, Sam								Citrus Flavonoid Supplementation Improves Exercise Performance in Trained Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			24	30					MAR 2018	2018	Previous studies have shown that polyphenol supplementation may be an effective strategy to improve exercise performance, due to their antioxidant character and ability to stimulate NO production. These properties may contribute to exercise performance, yet no conclusive research has been performed in exploring the direct effects of citrus flavonoids on human exercise performance. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to assess whether supplementation of a customized citrus flavonoid (CF) extract for 4 weeks improves cycling time-trial performance in trained male athletes. In a double-blind, randomized, parallel study, 39 healthy, trained males were given a daily dose of either 500 mg of a customized citrus flavonoid extract (CF) or a placebo for 4 weeks. Exercise performance was tested by means of a time-trial test on a cycle ergometer, during which participants had to generate as much power as possible for duration of 10 minutes. Absolute power output significantly increased with 14.9 +/- 3.9 W after 4 weeks of CF supplementation, corresponding with a 5.0% increase, compared to 3.8 +/- 3.2 W (1.3% increase) in placebo (p < 0.05). In addition, oxygen consumption/ power ratio significantly decreased in the CF group compared to placebo (p = 0.001), and a trend was found in the change in peak power output in CF (18.2 +/- 23.2 W) versus placebo (-28.4 +/- 17.6 W; p = 0.116). The current study is the first convincing report that citrus flavonoid supplementation can improve exercise performance, as shown by a significant increase in power output during the exercise test.		[Overdevest, Elvera; Wouters, Jeroen A.] Sportctr Papendal, Team NL Innovat Ctr, Sports & Nutr, Arnhem, Netherlands; [Wolfs, Kevin H. M.; van Leeuwen, Job J. M.; Possemiers, Sam] BioActor BV, Oxfordlaan 70, NL-6229 EV Maastricht, Netherlands; [Possemiers, Sam] BioActor BV, Oxfordlaan 70, NL-6229 EV Maastricht, Netherlands								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500004	47	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Hyun Jun; Lee, Sang Yeoup; Lee, Hwa Gyeong; Cho, Yang Hee; Ko, Eun Mi								Effects of a Single-Session Cognitive Enhancement Fitness Program on Serum Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor Levels and Cognitive Function in Middle-Aged Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			110	116					MAR 2018	2018	Few studies have been undertaken to develop cognitive functional improvement-focused exercise programs and determine their effect. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the effects of a cognitive enhancement fitness program (CEFP) on short-term memory and serum brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels according to the cognitive state in middle-aged women. A total of 30 healthy volunteers aged 40-59 years were divided into two groups, that is, a mild cognitive impairment (MCI) group and a non-MCI group based on results from the Korean Dementia Screening Questionnaire. A single-session CEFP was conducted over 50 min and consisted of four parts: warm-up, low intensity interval circulation dance exercises, moderate intensity resistance exercises using elastic bands, and cool-down. Serum BDNF levels were measured by ELISA and short-term memory determined by forward digit/word span test was assessed before and after CEFP. After CEFP, forward digit/word span test scores and BDNF levels increased to median 119.2%/115.1% and 118.7%, respectively. After CEFP, the MCI and non-MCI groups produced higher forward digit span test scores (from 6.7 +/- 1.5 to 7.5 +/- 1.4 points, p = 0.023 and from 6.2 +/- 2.0 to 7.0 +/- 2.1 points, P=0.011, respectively). After CEFP, forward word span scores and BDNF levels increased (from 3.5 +/- 1.7 to 4.6 +/- 1.8 points, p = 0.029 and from 610.8 +/- 221.1 to 757.9 +/- 267.9 pg/ml, p = 0.017, respectively) in non-MCI group only. No group differences were observed between change in short-term memory and change in BDNF. Short-term memory and BDNF levels after CEFP were found to be negatively correlated with age, but pre-to post-intervention changes in short-term memory and BDNF were not. The present study shows that a single, 50-minute CEFP improved short-term memory and increased serum BDNF levels in healthy middle-aged women, especially those without MCI.		[Kim, Hyun Jun] Kyugnam Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Chang Won, South Korea; [Lee, Sang Yeoup] Pusan Natl Univ, Yangsan Hosp, Inst Convergence Biomed Sci & Technol, Family Med Clin & Res, Yangsan, South Korea; [Lee, Sang Yeoup] Pusan Natl Univ, Sch Med, Dept Med Educ, Yangsan, South Korea; [Lee, Hwa Gyeong] Kyungnam Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Chang Won, South Korea; [Cho, Yang Hee; Ko, Eun Mi] Amway Korea, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Hyun Jun] Pusan Natl Univ, Yangsan Hosp, Family Med Clin, Beomeo Ri, Yangsan 50612, South Korea								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500013	37	Article; Article		
J	Liposek, Silvester; Zenic, Natasa; Saavedra, Jose M.; Sekulic, Damir; Rodek, Jelena; Marinsek, Miha; Sajber, Dorica								Examination of Factors Explaining Coaching Strategy and Training Methodology as Correlates of Potential Doping Behavior in High-Level Swimming								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			82	91					MAR 2018	2018	Although coaching is considered an important determinant of athletes' potential doping behavior (PDB), there is an evident lack of studies that have examined coaching-strategy-and-training-methodology (CS&TM) in relation to PDB. This study was aimed to identify the specific associations that may exist between CS&TM -factors and other factors, and PDB in high-level swimming. The sample comprised 94 swimmers (35 females; 19.7 +/- 2.3 years of age) and consisted of swimmers older than 18 years who participated in the 2017 National Championship. Variables were collected by previously validated questionnaires, with the addition of questions where athletes were asked about CS&TM to which they had been exposed. Multinomial logistic regression was applied for the criterion PDB (Negative PDB-Neutral PDB-Positive PDB). The higher risk for positive-PDB was found in males (OR: 6.58; 95% CI: 1.01-9.12); therefore, all regressions were adjusted for gender. Those swimmers who achieved better competitive result were less prone to neutral-PDB (0.41; 0.17-0.98). The positive-PDB was evidenced in those swimmers who perceived that their training was monotonous and lacked diversity (1.82; 1.41-5.11), and who were involved in training which was mostly oriented toward volume (1.76; 1.11-7.12). The lower likelihood of positive-PDB is found in those who replied that technique is practiced frequently (0.12; 0.01-0.81), those who replied that coach regularly provided the attention to explain the training aims (0.21; 0.04-0.81), and that coach frequently reviewed and discussed the quality of execution of specific tasks (0.41; 0.02-0.81). The findings on the relationships between the studied variables and PDB should be incorporated into targeted anti-doping efforts in swimming. Further studies examining sport-specific variables of CS&TM in younger swimmers and other sports are warranted.		[Liposek, Silvester; Marinsek, Miha] Univ Maribor, Maribor, Slovenia; [Liposek, Silvester; Sajber, Dorica] Slovenian Swimming Federat, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Zenic, Natasa; Sekulic, Damir; Rodek, Jelena] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Split 21000, Croatia; [Saavedra, Jose M.] Reykjavik Univ, Phys Act Phys Educ Sport & Hlth Res Ctr, Sch Sci & Engn, Sports Sci Dept, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Sajber, Dorica] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Zenic, Natasa] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Split 21000, Croatia								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500010	46	Article; Article		
J	Ortiz, Jaelson G.; da Silva, Juliano F.; Carminatti, Lorival J.; Guglielmo, Luiz G. A.; Diefenthaeler, Fernando								Effect of 8 Weeks Soccer Training on Health and Physical Performance in Untrained Women								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				17	1			17	23					MAR 2018	2018	This study aims to analyze the physiological, neuromuscular, and biochemical responses in untrained women after eight weeks of regular participation in small-sided soccer games compared to aerobic training. Twenty-seven healthy untrained women were divided into two groups [soccer group (SG = 17) and running group (RG = 10)]. Both groups trained three times per week for eight weeks. The variables measured in this study were maximal oxygen uptake (VO(2)max), relative velocity at VO(2)max (vVO(2)max), peak velocity, relative intensity at lactate threshold (vLT), relative intensity at onset of blood lactate accumulation (vOBLA), peak force, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, triglycerides, and cholesterol ratio (LDL/HDL). VO(2)max, vLT, and vOBLA increased significantly in both groups (12.8 and 16.7%, 11.1 and 15.3%, 11.6 and 19.8%, in SG and RG respectively). However, knee extensors peak isometric strength and triglyceride levels, total cholesterol, LDL, and HDL did not differ after eight weeks of training in both groups. On the other hand, the LDL/HDL ratio significantly reduced in both groups. In conclusion, eight weeks of regular participation in smallsided soccer games was sufficient to increase aerobic performance and promote health benefits related to similar aerobic training in untrained adult women.		[Ortiz, Jaelson G.; da Silva, Juliano F.; Carminatti, Lorival J.; Guglielmo, Luiz G. A.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Lab Esforco Fis, Ctr Sport, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Diefenthaeler, Fernando] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Lab Biomecan, Ctr Sport, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Carminatti, Lorival J.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Ciencias Saude & Esporte, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Ortiz, Jaelson G.] Avai Futebol Clube, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Diefenthaeler, Fernando] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Centro Desportos, Lab Biomecan, Campus Reitor Joao David Ferreira Lima, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000425786500003	40	Article; Article		
J	Shih, Yi-Fen; Yu, Hsiang-Ting; Chen, Wen-Yin; Liao, Kwong-Kum; Lin, Hsiu-Chen; Yang, Yea-Ru								The effect of additional joint mobilization on neuromuscular performance in individuals with functional ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				30				22	28		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.12.001			MAR 2018	2018	Objectives: To examine the effects of joint mobilization and exercise training on neuromuscular performance in individuals with functional ankle instability (FAI). Design: A cross-sectional study. Participants: Forty five subjects with FAI were randomized into three groups: control (CG, n = 15, 27.9 +/- 6.6yr), training (TG, n = 15, 26.9 +/- 5.8yr) and mobilization with training group (MTG, n = 15, 26.5 +/- 4.8yr). Intervention: Four weeks of neuromuscular training for TG; neuromuscular training and joint mobilization for MTG. Main outcome measures: Electromyography of the peroneus longus (PL), tibialis anterior (TA), and soleus (SOL) and the reaching distance of the Y balance test (YBT), dorsiflexion range of motion (DFROM), Cumberland ankle instability tool (CAIT), and global rating scale (GRS). Two-way repeated measures MANOVA were used with the significance level p < .05. Results: MANOVA found significant group by time interactions on posterolateral reaching distance (p = .032), PL activation (p = .006-.03), DFROM (p < .001), CAIT (p < .001) and GRS (p < .001). The post hoc tests indicated significantly improved PL muscle activity and posterolateral reaching distance for MTG compared to TG (p = .004) and CG (p = .006). Conclusion: Joint mobilization resulted in additional benefits on self-reported ankle instability severity, dorsiflexion mobility, and posterolateral balance performance in individuals with FAI, but its effects on general improvement, muscle activation, and other balance tasks remained uncertain. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Shih, Yi-Fen; Yu, Hsiang-Ting; Chen, Wen-Yin; Yang, Yea-Ru] Natl Yang Ming Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Assist Technol, 155 Li Nong St,Sect 2, Taipei 112, Taiwan; [Liao, Kwong-Kum] Taipei Vet Gen Hosp, Neurol Inst, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lin, Hsiu-Chen] China Med Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Taichung, Taiwan; [Shih, Yi-Fen] Natl Yang Ming Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Assist Technol, 155 Li Nong St,Sect 2, Taipei 112, Taiwan								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000427335300004	32	Article; Article		
J	Beneck, George J.; Selkowitz, David M.; Janzen, Dani Skeie; Malecha, Erin; Tiemeyer, Brandi Ramirez								The influence of pelvic rotation on clinical measurements of hip flexion and extension range of motion across sex and age								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				30				1	7		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.07.005			MAR 2018	2018	Objective: The purpose of this study was to identify the amount of pelvic rotation associated with hip motion during passive hip flexion and extension goniometric measurements. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: University laboratory. Participants: One hundred healthy adults (males = 45, females = 55) aged 18-66 years participated. Outcome measures: Clinical range of motion measurements of hip flexion, and extension during the modified Thomas test, and pelvic sagittal position measured using a device, attached from the PSIS to ASIS, and a fluid-filled inclinometer. Results: When pelvic rotation was subtracted from the clinical measurements, hip flexion measurements were significantly reduced in both sexes (males: 110.8 +/- 7.4 to 93.8 +/- 7.8 degrees, P < 0.001; females: 121.3 +/- 7.2 to 107.3 +/- 8.6 degrees, P < 0.001). However, subtracting pelvic rotation from hip extension measurements only significantly reduced the measurements in females (15.5 +/- 6.0 to 6.2 +/- 6.8 degrees, P < 0.001). No significant differences were found across age groups. Conclusions: Clinical measurements of hip flexion exaggerated the range of motion in both sexes. The modified Thomas test appeared to control for rotation of the pelvis during hip extension in men. However, in women, hip extension measurements were exaggerated. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Beneck, George J.; Janzen, Dani Skeie; Malecha, Erin; Tiemeyer, Brandi Ramirez] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Phys Therapy, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Selkowitz, David M.] MGH Inst Hlth Profess Charlestown Navy Yard, Sch Hlth & Rehabil Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Boston, MA USA; [Beneck, George J.] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Dept Phys Therapy, ET 122, 1250 Bellflower Blvd, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000427335300001	53	Article; Article		
J	Swain, Christopher T. V.; Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.; Whyte, Douglas G.; Ekegren, Christina L.								The prevalence and impact of low back pain in pre-professional and professional dancers: A prospective study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				30				8	13		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.10.006			MAR 2018	2018	Objectives: To determine the prevalence of low back pain (LBP) in pre-professional and professional dancers and its impact on dance participation, care-seeking and medication use. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: One pre-professional ballet school, two pre-professional university dance programs, and a professional ballet company. Participants: Male and female classical ballet and contemporary dancers. Main outcome measures: An initial questionnaire collected demographic and LBP history data. The monthly prevalence of LBP (all episodes, activity limiting episodes and chronic LBP) and impact (activity limitation, care-seeking, and medication use) was collected over a nine-month period. Results: 119 dancers participated, which represented 54% of those invited. Activity limiting LBP was reported by 52% of dancers, while chronic LBP was reported by 24%. Seventeen percent of all episodes of LBP resulted in some form of dance activity being completely missed. One-third of the sample reported care-seeking and one-fifth of the sample used medication. A history of LBP was associated with activity limiting LBP (p < 0.01; adjusted odds ratio: 3.98; 95% confidence interval: 1.44, 11.00). Conclusions: LBP in dancers was common and had multiple impacts. This study reinforces the need for dancer access to healthcare professionals with expertise in evidence-based LBP prevention and management. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Swain, Christopher T. V.; Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.; Whyte, Douglas G.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Bradshaw, Elizabeth J.] Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Ekegren, Christina L.] Monash Univ, Dept Epidemiol & Prevent Med, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Swain, Christopher T. V.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000427335300002	36	Article; Article		
J	Hedrick, Allen								Weightlifting Movements and Sprint Performance								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	1			92	97		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000357			FEB 2018	2018	Sprint speed is an important component of performance in many sports. Programs with a goal of enhancing sports performance have previously emphasized the powerlifting movements. The current approach, however, reflects a shift toward using weightlifting movements and the derivative lifts. Although this shift is logically based on the potential benefits the type of training can provide, there is limited research evidence supporting the potential benefits weightlifting movements may provide to sprint performance. The purpose of this article is to review the available scientific research, examining the impact of weightlifting-based training on sprint performance.		[Hedrick, Allen] Colorado State Univ, Athlet Dept, Pueblo, CO 81001 USA; [Hedrick, Allen] Colorado State Univ, Athlet Dept, Pueblo, CO 81001 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440255800009	25	Article; Article		
J	Moir, Gavin L.; Brimmer, Scott M.; Snyder, Brandon W.; Connaboy, Chris; Lamont, Hugh S.								Mechanical Limitations to Sprinting and Biomechanical Solutions: A Constraints-Led Framework for the Incorporation of Resistance Training to Develop Sprinting Speed								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	1			47	67		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000358			FEB 2018	2018	Despite strong theoretical evidence, the effectiveness of resistance training methods on sprinting performance is not always demonstrated experimentally. Accelerative sprinting is limited by the requirement of a forward-directed ground reaction force during progressively shorter stance phases that accompany higher sprinting speeds, whereas maximal speed sprinting is limited by the application of sufficient vertical impulse during stance, constraining minimal stance durations. Considering the mechanical limitations and the biomechanical solutions used by the fastest sprinters from a constraints-led perspective provides a framework from which practitioners can explore the incorporation of resistance and sprint training in the development of long-term training programs.		[Moir, Gavin L.; Brimmer, Scott M.; Snyder, Brandon W.] East Stroudsburg Univ Penn, Exercise Sci Dept, East Stroudsburg, PA 18301 USA; [Connaboy, Chris] Univ Pittsburgh, Neuromuscular Res Lab, Dept Sport Med & Nutr, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Lamont, Hugh S.] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Kinesiol Recreat & Sport Studies, Conway, SC USA; [Moir, Gavin L.] East Stroudsburg Univ Penn, Exercise Sci Dept, East Stroudsburg, PA 18301 USA								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440255800006	114	Article; Article		
J	Magrini, Mitchel; Dawes, J. Jay; Spaniol, Frank J.; Roberts, Adam								Speed and Agility Training for Baseball/Softball								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	1			68	74		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000308			FEB 2018	2018	In the sports of baseball and softball, power, speed, and agility are essential characteristics for success. Players who possess these characteristics may be able to cover a larger portion of the field and react to specific situations while running on the base paths. It is essential that the coach or strength and conditioning professional conduct drills that are sports-specific to the game of baseball or softball. The following article discusses the baseball/softball players' needs and provides recommendations for potential sport-specific drills that can be completed in an indoor facility or on the baseball/softball field.		[Magrini, Mitchel] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA; [Dawes, J. Jay] Univ Colorado, Helen & Arthur E Johnson Dept Hlth Sci, Colorado Springs, CO 80907 USA; [Spaniol, Frank J.] Texas A&M Univ Corpus Christi, Dept Kinesiol, Corpus Christi, TX USA; [Roberts, Adam] Chinese Olymp Comm, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Magrini, Mitchel] Oklahoma State Univ, Sch Kinesiol Appl Hlth & Recreat, Stillwater, OK 74078 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440255800007	9	Article; Article		
J	Tufano, James J.; Amonette, William E.								Assisted Versus Resisted Training: Which Is Better for Increasing Jumping and Sprinting?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				40	1			106	110		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000362			FEB 2018	2018	This column discusses two related, but importantly different, approaches to enhancing power; assisted and resisted training. Understanding both modalities allows the strength and conditioning professional to discern the role of each in enhancing jump and sprint performance.		[Tufano, James J.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic; [Amonette, William E.] Univ Houston, Dept Clin Hlth & Appl Sci, Houston, TX USA; [Tufano, James J.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Prague, Czech Republic								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000440255800011	43	Article; Article		
J	Arias-Estero, Jose L.; Argudo, Francisco M.; Alonso, Jose I.								One-on-one situation decision-making according to equipment in youth basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			72	77		10.1177/1747954117746494			FEB 2018	2018	The goal was to verify with which ball participants improved the attackers' decisions in one-on-one game situations during youth basketball. Participants were 88 9- to 11-year-old boys from eight teams. We organized a three-day tournament consisting of 12 games, in which four games were played with each ball among all the teams. The balls differed only in their weight (440g, 485g, 540g). The videos filmed were observed by two observers trained. The dependent variables were number of decisions, appropriate decisions, inappropriate decisions and ratio of correct to incorrect decisions, in the one-on-one situation. Participants made more decisions, and more correct (but not incorrect) decisions, when using the 440-g rather than the regulation and 540-g ball. This view requires that youth coaches act as a facilitator of learning, designing practice context according the objective evidence.		[Arias-Estero, Jose L.] UCAM Univ Catolica San Antonio Murcia, Dept Phys Act & Sport Sci, Campus Jeronimos S-N, Murcia 30107, Spain; [Argudo, Francisco M.] Autonomous Univ Madrid, Dept Phys Educ Sport & Human Movement, Madrid, Spain; [Alonso, Jose I.] Univ Murcia, Dept Plast Mus & Dynam Express, Murcia, Spain; [Arias-Estero, Jose L.] UCAM Univ Catolica San Antonio Murcia, Dept Phys Act & Sport Sci, Campus Jeronimos S-N, Murcia 30107, Spain								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400007	20	Article; Article		
J	Van Biesen, Debbie; McCulloch, Katina; Vanlandewijck, Yves C.								Comparison of shot-put release parameters and consistency in performance between elite throwers with and without intellectual impairment								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			86	94		10.1177/1747954117707483			FEB 2018	2018	Background: Shot-put is one of the events in which athletes with intellectual impairment compete at the Paralympic Games, since their re-inclusion in 2012. The purpose of this study was to compare the competition performance and investigate differences in release parameters and consistency of performance between high level shot-put throwers with and without intellectual impairment. Methods: Data collection took place at the 2014 European Championships athletics for athletes with intellectual impairment (n=20; 11 men, 9 women, M-IQ=60.27.3, M-age=28.16.7 years), and the 2015 national championships for athletes without intellectual impairment (n=26, 12 men, 14 women, M-age=24.9 +/- 5.6 years). A video camera operating at 100Hz was utilized to capture the throws and 2D images were analyzed with motion analysis software to calculate release parameters and check consistency of the throw. Results: Independent t tests revealed that the average (11.87m) and best (14.81m) performance of male world-class intellectual impairment-throwers was significantly lower compared to the average (14.62m) and best (17.78m) performance of male national level throwers without intellectual impairment (F=5.3, p<.05), primarily due to the significantly lower release velocity (r=.79, p<.01). The inter-individual variance in throw-to-throw distance was significantly larger in intellectual impairment-throwers; however, opposite to what was expected, the angle of release consistency was not significantly different between both samples. Intellectual impairment-throwers performed with superior release velocity consistency than non-intellectual impairment-throwers. Conclusions: These findings support the assumption that impaired cognitive function may constrain the ability to optimally release the shot-put.		[Van Biesen, Debbie; McCulloch, Katina; Vanlandewijck, Yves C.] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Tervuursevest 101, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium; [Van Biesen, Debbie] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Fac Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Dept Rehabil Sci, Tervuursevest 101, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400009	34	Article; Article		
J	Ronkainen, Noora J.; Ryba, Tatiana V.; Littlewood, Martin; Selaenne, Harri								"School, family and then hockey!' Coaches' views on dual career in ice hockey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			38	45		10.1177/1747954117712190			FEB 2018	2018	Despite the extensive research into coaches' roles in supporting athletic development and motivation for sport, few studies have examined coaches' attitudes and practices towards athletes' dual careers. The present study extends European research into athletes' dual careers by examining Finnish ice hockey coaches' attitudes and practices surrounding players' education. Ten male coaches aged 27-52 participated in semi-structured interviews. The data were analysed with an existential-narrative theoretical framework and with thematic and structural narrative analysis. Three composite vignettes were created entitled supporting athletic development and players in reaching their own goals', enjoyment and physically active lifestyle' and developing good persons'. The analysis revealed that although all coaches embraced the official rhetoric where school is a priority over ice hockey, most of them had few practical examples of how this view had informed their coaching practice. It is concluded that young players may be easily lured into dreams of professionalism, whereas coaches' dominant narrative of education as a back-up may be ineffective to spark athletes' interest and engagement with education.		[Ronkainen, Noora J.] Shanghai Jiao Tong Univ, Exercise Hlth & Technol Ctr, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Ronkainen, Noora J.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Ryba, Tatiana V.; Selaenne, Harri] Univ Jyvaskyla, Dept Psychol, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Littlewood, Martin] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Football Exchange Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Ronkainen, Noora J.] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Byrom St, Liverpool L3 3AF, Merseyside, England								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400004	36	Article; Article		
J	Roynesdal, Oystein; Toering, Tynke; Gustafsson, Henrik								Understanding players' transition from youth to senior professional football environments: A coach perspective								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			26	37		10.1177/1747954117746497			FEB 2018	2018	The aim of this study was to explore: (a) sociocultural features of a first team environment perceived to influence a player's progression, (b) the ways in which young players should manage these features and (c) how coaches operate to assist young players during specific phases in the youth-to-senior transition. Semi-structured interviews with eight elite development coaches in English Premier League football clubs generated two higher order categories: fitting in with standards of first team environment (e.g. handling social dynamics in the first team group) and facilitating shared perception of transition across key stakeholders (e.g. communicating with first team staff). Together, these findings indicate the need for young players to navigate between conforming, adapting to and breaking with specific features of the first team environment to successfully progress in the youth-to-senior transition to professional football.		[Roynesdal, Oystein; Toering, Tynke; Gustafsson, Henrik] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Coaching & Psychol, N-0863 Oslo, Norway; [Gustafsson, Henrik] Karlstad Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Karlstad, Sweden; [Roynesdal, Oystein] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Dept Coaching & Psychol, N-0863 Oslo, Norway								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400003	54	Article; Article		
J	Kerr, Hamish A.; Ledet, Eric H.; Ata, Ashar; Newitt, Jennifer L.; Barbara, Matthew Santa; Kahanda, Milan; Schlueter, Erin Sperry								Does instructional video footage improve tackle technique?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			3	15		10.1177/1747954117711867			FEB 2018	2018	There is a high incidence of injury during rugby tackling. Tackle biomechanics are linked to this injury risk. The effectiveness of educational methods in teaching safe rugby tackling for players of various ages and experience levels has not been elucidated. We hypothesized that watching an educational video on rugby tackling technique would alter lower extremity kinematics and reduce cervical spine and head acceleration during tackling. Kinematics and kinetics of 50 collegiate and high school-aged rugby players were recorded while tackling an opponent in a laboratory setting. Movement of the lower extremity, upper body, and head were quantified with a motion analysis system. Participants were shown video instruction on tackling technique then performed another series of tackles. Data were compared pre- and post-educational intervention. A fixed effects model was used to compare the effect of repetition versus educational intervention. Skilled collegiate players tackled with significantly greater mean knee flexion angle post-educational intervention relative to pre-instruction, indicative of better technique. The fixed effects model indicated that video instruction decreased acceleration by a mean 51.8m/s(2) in collegiate players. However, the effect of repetition was shown to increase peak acceleration by a mean 11.2m/s(2). In contrast, the educational intervention resulted in an increased acceleration of 15.4m/s(2) for high school players, but the effect of repetition was shown to decrease acceleration by a mean of 5.2m/s(2). Experienced players respond as expected to video instructional intervention. Repetition may be more important for younger rugby players to learn effective tackling.		[Kerr, Hamish A.; Ata, Ashar; Newitt, Jennifer L.; Kahanda, Milan; Schlueter, Erin Sperry] Albany Med Ctr, Dept Med, Albany, NY USA; [Ledet, Eric H.] Rensselaer Polytech Inst, Dept Biomed Engn, Troy, NY 12180 USA; [Barbara, Matthew Santa] UPMC, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Kerr, Hamish A.] Albany Med Coll, 724 Watervliet Shaker Rd, Albany, NY 12208 USA								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400001	52	Article; Article		
J	Antretter, Markus; Faerber, Sebastian; Immler, Lorenz; Perktold, Matthias; Posch, Doris; Raschner, Christian; Wachholz, Felix; Burtscher, Martin								The Hatfield-system versus the weekly undulating periodised resistance training in trained males								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			95	103		10.1177/1747954117746457			FEB 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to compare training adaptations attained during six weeks of using the Hatfield-system and six weeks of the weekly undulating periodisation strength training. Twenty-six recreationally strength trained men were randomly assigned to either a Hatfield-system group (n=13; age=26.8 +/- 7.2 years) or a weekly undulating periodisation group (n=13; age=29.2 +/- 9.0 years). Anthropometric measures and strength testing were performed before (PRE) and after six weeks (POST) of training. To subjectively quantify the individual's perception of the physical demands of the intensity of resistance training, a category-ratio scale (CR10) was used by the subjects after each training session. The participants of both groups trained twice a week for six weeks. The Hatfield-system and weekly undulating periodisation programmes used the same exercises, the same total training volume and the same total intensity in these six weeks. The difference between the two programmes was in the distribution within each training phase. The Hatfield-system and weekly undulating periodisation groups trained using a periodised strength programme with all programme variables controlled (e.g. volume and intensity). The Hatfield-system group used a linear not varying intensity, whereas the weekly undulating periodisation group had a varied intensity. The results show that both the Hatfield-system and weekly undulating periodisation groups made significant (p0.05) increases in strength and power. The results of this study indicate that the Hatfield-system model is no more effective than the weekly undulating periodisation model for increasing strength, power and muscle size.		[Antretter, Markus; Faerber, Sebastian; Immler, Lorenz; Perktold, Matthias; Posch, Doris; Raschner, Christian; Wachholz, Felix; Burtscher, Martin] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innrain 52, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria; [Antretter, Markus] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Innrain 52, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400010	37	Article; Article		
J	Basson, Jacques; van Deventer, Karel; Kraak, Wilbur								A profile of mini rugby coaches in the Western Cape Province, South Africa								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			104	112		10.1177/1747954117741256			FEB 2018	2018	A coach and a coaching process that offers a supportive learning environment and appropriate levels of challenge, and that engenders a passion for the sport can produce positive and productive sporting outcomes. The aim of this study was to determine a profile of mini rugby coaches in the Western Cape Province, South Africa. Mini rugby coaches (N=91) completed a 15-item questionnaire to obtain descriptive information about the coaches, as well as their perceptions about their ability and confidence to coach mini rugby. The results indicate that a significant number of coaches did not have any experience in playing rugby (32%) or coaching mini rugby (19%), and the majority of coaches (51%) did not have any form of rugby coaching education. The results also show that a significant number of the coaches did not feel efficacious in coaching mini rugby (23%) and did not believe that they were optimally developing the skills of the mini rugby players (29%). The findings from the current study highlight an unfavourable situation where untrained and inexperienced individuals coach mini rugby, which has important practical implications for rugby administrators, developers of coaching education courses, players, as well as the game itself. One recommendation to remedy this situation would be that all coaches must be educated to coach rugby. A coaching education course designed specifically for mini rugby will aid in preparing individuals to successfully coach mini rugby. The content and structure of coaching education courses also need to be reviewed to ensure it is pertinent to the coaches' needs.		[Basson, Jacques; van Deventer, Karel; Kraak, Wilbur] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Sport Sci, ZA-7601 Matieland, South Africa; [Kraak, Wilbur] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Sport Sci, ZA-7601 Matieland, South Africa								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400011	52	Article; Article		
J	Ihalainen, Simo; Mononen, Kaisu; Linnamo, Vesa; Kuitunen, Sami								Which technical factors explain competition performance in air rifle shooting?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			78	85		10.1177/1747954117707481			FEB 2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to analyze whether the same shooting technical components determining performance in testing situation also affect performance in competition situation and how the technical skill level of these components changes from training to competition. Thirteen Finnish national (10) and junior national (3) rifle team members participated in the study. Participants were measured in competition and training situation within a five-day period. Shooting score, aiming point trajectory and postural balance were measured from both situations. Shooting performance decreased from training to competition situation (10.31 +/- 0.13 vs. 10.14 +/- 0.17, p<0.05), accompanied by a decrease in holding ability, aiming accuracy, cleanness of triggering and postural balance. A multiple regression equation based on holding ability, aiming accuracy, cleanness of triggering and timing of triggering correlated with the competition situation shooting results (R=0.76, p<0.01). Changes in shooting performance from training to competition situation were most strongly related to the changes in horizontal holding ability (R=-0.71, p<0.01). Athletes and coaches should develop competition strategies and psychological training interventions in order to be able to maintain the horizontal holding ability in competition at training situation level.		[Ihalainen, Simo; Mononen, Kaisu; Kuitunen, Sami] KIHU, Res Inst Olymp Sports, Rautpohjankatu 6, Jyvaskyla 40700, Finland; [Ihalainen, Simo; Linnamo, Vesa] Univ Jyvaskyla, Dept Biol Phys Act, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Ihalainen, Simo] KIHU, Res Inst Olymp Sports, Rautpohjankatu 6, Jyvaskyla 40700, Finland								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400008	17	Article; Article		
J	Lundqvist, Carolina; Stahl, Linda; Kentta, Goran; Thulin, Ulrika								Evaluation of a mindfulness intervention for Paralympic leaders prior to the Paralympic Games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				13	1			62	71		10.1177/1747954117746495			FEB 2018	2018	This article presents an evaluation of the effectiveness of an applied mindfulness intervention for stress reduction delivered to Paralympic leaders prior to the Paralympic Games. The intervention group of Swedish Paralympic leaders (n=10) received a mindfulness intervention of eight web-based seminars, while a Norwegian reference group (n=6) received no intervention. Three assessments were performed for both samples: at baseline, post-intervention and six weeks post-intervention. The evaluation indicated intervention effects of higher psychological flexibility (p=.03), less rumination (p=.02) and lower perceived stress (p=.001), and offers initial support for the applied usefulness of a web-based mindfulness training program as a supplement in stress-reduction programs for elite sport leaders. General challenges from an applied sport psychology perspective related to the implementation of mindfulness interventions in samples with experienced high levels of stress and perceived time-constraints are discussed.		[Lundqvist, Carolina] Linkoping Univ, Dept Behav Sci & Learning, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden; [Stahl, Linda] Stockholm Univ, Dept Psychol, Stockholm, Sweden; [Kentta, Goran] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Stockholm, Sweden; [Thulin, Ulrika] Karolinska Inst, Ctr Psychiat Res & Educ, Stockholm, Sweden; [Lundqvist, Carolina] Linkoping Univ, Dept Behav Sci & Learning, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000425985400006	54	Article; Article		
J	Schreyer, Dominik; Torgler, Benno								On the Role of Race Outcome Uncertainty in the TV Demand for Formula 1 Grands Prix								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	2			211	229		10.1177/1527002515626223			FEB 2018	2018	This study analyzes 400 broadcasts of Federation Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) Formula One (F1) World Championship Grands Prix between 1993 and 2014 in order to explore the question of whether race outcome uncertainty affects the TV demand for F1 racing in Germany. The results reveal that demand is shaped by race outcome uncertainty as proxied by performance differences between those drivers with the best performances during the qualifying as well as additional factors primarily related to Grand Prix circuit and scheduling. From a TV demand perspective, FIA, therefore, is well advised to keep the competition among F1 teams balanced.		[Schreyer, Dominik] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, CSM, Erkrather Str 224a, D-40233 Dusseldorf, Germany; [Torgler, Benno] CREMA, Zurich, Switzerland; [Torgler, Benno] Queensland Univ Technol, Sch Econ & Finance, Econ, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Schreyer, Dominik] WHU Otto Beisheim Sch Management, CSM, Erkrather Str 224a, D-40233 Dusseldorf, Germany								33							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000419851600003	53	Article; Article		
J	Green, Michael S.; Benson, Amanda K.; Martin, Tyler D.								Effect of Mouthguard Use on Metabolic and Cardiorespiratory Responses to Aerobic Exercise in Males								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			183	189		10.1080/02701367.2018.1451816			2018	2018	Purpose: This study investigated the physiological effects of wearing a mouthguard during submaximal treadmill exercise. Method: Twenty-four recreationally active males (M-age = 21.3 +/- 2.4 years, M-height = 1.78 +/- 0.06m, M-weight = 81.9 +/- 10.6kg, M-body mass index = 25.8 +/- 3.4kgm(-2)) performed incremental, continuous exercise at 2, 4, 6, and 8 mph (3.2, 6.4, 9.7, 12.9 kph) for 5min at each speed on a motor-driven treadmill on 2 separate occasions in a randomized, crossover, counterbalanced design while wearing or not wearing a self-adaptable boil and bite mouthguard. Respiratory rate (RR), tidal volume (V-T), ventilation (V-E), oxygen consumption (VO2), respiratory exchange ratio (RER), and heart rate (HR) data were averaged during the last 60s of each exercise stage; blood lactate (LA) was measured before exercise and 3 min and 10min following exercise. Results: Repeated-measures analysis of variance revealed that mouthguard use failed to alter the response of RR, V-T, V-E, VO2, RER, and HR to treadmill exercise (p>.05), although each variable did increase in magnitude as a result of increasing treadmill speed (p<.001). Although increasing to above resting values at both 3 min and 10min (p<.001) after cessation of exercise, LA levels also displayed no differences with mouthguard use (p>.05). Conclusion: Despite predictable increases in respiratory, metabolic, and cardiovascular variables in response to incremental exercise, the presence of a mouthguard failed to affect the magnitude or nature of these physiological responses.		[Green, Michael S.; Benson, Amanda K.; Martin, Tyler D.] Troy Univ, 112 Wright Hall, Troy, AL 36082 USA; [Benson, Amanda K.] Louisiana State Univ, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Green, Michael S.] Troy Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Promot, 112 Wright Hall, Troy, AL 36082 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600007	18	Article; Article		
J	Cox, Adam								Spectator Demand, Uncertainty of Results, and Public Interest: Evidence From the English Premier League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	1			3	30		10.1177/1527002515619655			JAN 2018	2018	This article tests the impact of match outcome uncertainty on stadium attendance and television audiences of English Premier League football. The method accounts for different measures of outcome uncertainty, an issue identified as a potential source of discord between existing evidence. Results show that more certain matches are preferred by spectators at the stadium yet more uncertain matches are preferred on TV spectators. Thus, a change in revenue sharing polices aimed at promoting a more uncertain match may affect both TV and stadium demand in opposing directions.		[Cox, Adam] Univ Portsmouth, Portsmouth Business Sch, Dept Econ & Finance, Richmond Bldg,Portland St, Portsmouth PO1 3DE, Hants, England; [Cox, Adam] Univ Portsmouth, Portsmouth Business Sch, Dept Econ & Finance, Richmond Bldg,Portland St, Portsmouth PO1 3DE, Hants, England								104							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000416559100001	47	Article; Article		
J	Islam, Hashim; Townsend, Logan K.; Hazell, Tom J.								Excess Postexercise Oxygen Consumption and Fat Utilization Following Submaximal Continuous and Supramaximal Interval Running								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			450	456		10.1080/02701367.2018.1513633			2018	2018	Purpose: Few studies have directly compared excess postexercise oxygen consumption (EPOC) and fat utilization following different exercise intensities, and the effect of continuous exercise exceeding 75% of maximal oxygen uptake (VO(2)max) on these parameters remains unexplored. The current study examined EPOC and fat utilization following acute moderate- and vigorous-intensity continuous training (MICT and VICT) and sprint interval training (SIT). Methods: Eight active young men performed 4 experimental sessions: (a) MICT (30min of running at 65% VO(2)max); (b) VICT (30min of running at 85% VO(2)max); (c) SIT (4 30-s all-out sprints with 4min of rest); and (d) no exercise (REST). Excess postexercise oxygen consumption and fat oxidation were estimated from gas measurements (VO2 and carbon dioxide production [VCO2]) obtained during a 2-hr postexercise period. Results: Total EPOC was similar (p=.097; effect size [ES]=0.3) after VICT (8.6 +/- 4.7L) and SIT (10.0 +/- 4.2L) and greater after both (VICT, p=.025, ES=0.3, and SIT, p<.001, ES=0.6) versus MICT (6.0 +/- 4.3L). Fat utilization increased after MICT (0.047 +/- 0.018g min(-1), p=.018, ES=1.3), VICT (0.066 +/- 0.020g center dot min(-1), p=.034, ES=2.2), and SIT (0.115 +/- 0.026g center dot min(-1), p<.001, ES=4.0) versus REST (0.025 +/- 0.018g center dot min(-1)) and was greatest after SIT (p<.001, ES=3.0 vs. MICT; p=.031, ES=2.1 vs. VICT). Conclusion: Acute exercise increases EPOC and fat utilization in an intensity-dependent manner.		[Islam, Hashim; Townsend, Logan K.; Hazell, Tom J.] Wilfrid Laurier Univ, Waterloo, ON, Canada; [Hazell, Tom J.] Wilfrid Laurier Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 75 Univ Ave W, Waterloo, ON N2L 3C5, Canada								35							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100008	32	Article; Article		
J	Hazari, Sunil								Investigating social media consumption, sports enthusiasm, and gender on sponsorship outcomes in the context of Rio Olympics								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	4			396	414		10.1108/IJSMS-01-2017-0007			2018	2018	Purpose Using the context of Rio Olympic games, the purpose of this paper is to investigate attitude toward sponsorship outcome as it relates to purchase behavior, gender, sponsor patronage, sports enthusiasm, and social media consumption. Design/methodology/approach Data were collected using an online survey of 265 participants. Questions regarding demographics, viewing habits, sports participation, enthusiasm, attitude toward Olympic events were included in the survey. The four sub-scales were sponsorship attitude, sponsor patronage, social media consumption, and sports enthusiasm. Findings The findings of the study showed that social media consumption is positively related to attitude toward event and sports patronage. There was a significant gender difference on attitude toward event, social media consumption, and sports enthusiasm. Predictors for making a purchase as a result of seeing a social media advertisement were gender, playing competitive sport, and social media consumption. Practical implications This study will add to the body of academic and practitioner research on sponsorship outcomes, and provides an opportunity for marketers to leverage social media networks for sponsorship communication. Originality/value As the use of social media networks has increased over the past few years, no previous study has investigated association of sports enthusiasm, gender, or social media consumption toward sponsor patronage which relates to consumers seeking out sponsors and being influenced to make a purchase as a result of marketing communication of sponsors.		[Hazari, Sunil] Univ West Georgia, Dept Mkt, Carrollton, GA 30118 USA; [Hazari, Sunil] Univ West Georgia, Dept Mkt, Carrollton, GA 30118 USA								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000449486500003	60	Article; Article		
J	Li, Bo; Scott, Olan K. M.; Dittmore, Stephen W.								Twitter and Olympics: Exploring factors which impact fans following American Olympic Governing Bodies								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	4			370	383		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2017-0030			2018	2018	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine how Olympic audiences utilized Twitter to follow American National Governing Bodies (NGBs) during the 2016 Rio Olympic Games. Design/methodology/approach Guided by economic demand theory, the researchers sought to explore whether factors such as the content of social media messages, athlete's performance, event presentation, scheduling, and TV broadcasting contribute to enhancing fans' interests in following NGBs on Twitter during the Olympic Games. In total, 33 American NGB Twitter accounts formed the data set for this study. Each of NGBs' Twitter data was collected every night at midnight from August 7 to 23, 2016. Data collected from each NGB account included number of followers, number of accounts followed, number of tweets, and number of likes. Findings Results of this study revealed that team's performance and the number of tweets had direct and positive relationships with increasing the number of NGB's Twitter followers on each competition day. The number of likes, however, had a significant negative relationship with fans' interests in following NGBs' Twitter. Originality/value The results of the study are expected to help Governing Bodies in the Olympic sports have a better understanding of fans' social media usage.		[Li, Bo] St Ambrose Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Davenport, IA USA; [Scott, Olan K. M.] Brock Univ, Fac Appl Hlth Sci, St Catharines, ON, Canada; [Dittmore, Stephen W.] Univ Arkansas, Dept Hlth Human Performance & Recreat, Fayetteville, AR 72701 USA; [Li, Bo] St Ambrose Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Davenport, IA USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000449486500001	54	Article; Article		
J	Dick, Christopher								Gradual vs entire sponsorship termination: How to manage the ending of a sponsorship engagement								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	4			433	449		10.1108/IJSMS-04-2017-0028			2018	2018	Purpose The few studies on the effects of a sponsorship termination do not consider the effects of different exit options on consumers' attitudes toward the exiting sponsor. To fill this gap, the purpose of this paper is to investigate the effects of the extent of the exit (gradual vs entire) as well as the timing of the announcement (early vs late) on consumers' attitudes. Moreover, this research considers the mediating role of the perceived abandonment of the sponsored party. Design/methodology/approach This research uses an experimental study (n=204). Data were collected among supporters of a German second division soccer team. Findings The results emphasize that the extent of the exit as well as the timing of the announcement influences consumers' attitudes. They develop negative attitudes toward the withdrawing sponsor, especially when the sponsor exits entirely instead of gradually and announces the decision late instead of early. Furthermore, the results reveal that the perceived abandonment of the sponsored party mediates the effect of the extent of exit on attitudes. Practical implications The results help to formulate several exit options for the withdrawing sponsor that will help to minimize the possible negative effects on their brand. Specifically, the author recommends a gradual exit as well as an early announcement of the decision to prevent negative effects on the sponsor brand. Originality/value This study expands the research on the effects of a sponsorship termination on consumers' attitudes toward the sponsor brand. Specifically, it is the first study that considers several aspects regarding the sponsor management of a sponsorship termination as important determinants of consumers' attitudes.		[Dick, Christopher] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Dept Sport Business Adm, Cologne, Germany; [Dick, Christopher] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Dept Sport Business Adm, Cologne, Germany								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000449486500005	50	Article; Article		
J	Grafe, Kerstin; Bendick, Phillip; Burr, Margaret; Boura, Judy; Franklin, Barry A.								Effects of Resistance Training on Vascular and Hemodynamic Responses in Patients With Coronary Artery Disease								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			457	464		10.1080/02701367.2018.1519385			2018	2018	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine the impact of adjunctive resistance training (RT) in aerobically trained patients with coronary artery disease on systolic blood pressure (SBP), heart rate (HR), rating of perceived exertion (RPE; using the traditional 6-to-20 scale), and rate-pressure product (RPP) responses to lifting fixed submaximal workloads. Additionally, pretest and posttest RT measures of brachial artery reactivity were obtained. Method: Fifteen patients with coronary artery disease (M-age=66.1 +/- 5.1years) who were already performing regular aerobic exercise completed an adjunctive 12-week progressive RT program. Prior to and immediately after the training period, hemodynamic responses and RPE were obtained while participants performed one set of exercises including the bicep curl (BC), shoulder press (SP), and leg press (LP) at individually determined fixed submaximal loads, using 60% to 80% of estimated maximal voluntary contraction. Vascular function was assessed by flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) testing before and after training. Results: Attenuated hemodynamic and RPE responses for all variables were observed. Meaningful changes were attained for RPP ([HR x SBP] / 100) during BC (106 +/- 27 mmHg x beats/min x 10(-2) to 91 +/- 22mmHg x beats/min x 10(-2), d=0.6, p<.05) and SP (102 +/- 24 mmHg x beats/min x 10(-2) to 86 +/- 17mmHg x beats/min x 10(-2), d=0.8, p<.05). Rating of perceived exertion decreased significantly during all exercises (d ranging from 1.8 to 3.1, p<.05): BC (14.3 +/- 2.6 to 9.7 +/- 1.6), SP (13.9 +/- 1.6 to 9.2 +/- 1.5), and LP (14.3 +/- 1.4 to 10.3 +/- 1.6). Peak group FMD responses were 12.8% and 10.3% dilation at pretraining and posttraining, respectively (p>.05). Five of the 15 participants showed modest improvements in their posttraining time to achieve maximum dilation from a mean of 117s to 81s, although this change was not statistically significant (p>.05). Conclusion: Among aerobically trained cardiac patients, a supplemental RT program resulted in decreased hemodynamic and RPE responses to lifting fixed submaximal workloads.		[Grafe, Kerstin; Bendick, Phillip; Burr, Margaret; Boura, Judy; Franklin, Barry A.] Beaumont Hlth, Royal Oak, MI USA; [Franklin, Barry A.] Oakland Univ, Rochester, MI 48063 USA; [Grafe, Kerstin] Beaumont Hlth, Beaumont Hlth & Wellness Ctr, Prevent Cardiol & Cardiac Rehabil, 4949 Coolidge Highway,Area C, Royal Oak, MI 48073 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100009	13	Article; Article		
J	Wright, Brian V.; Stager, Joel M.								Swimmers' Compliance to Training as a Function of Observation: A Pilot Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			498	503		10.1080/02701367.2018.1519520			2018	2018	Adherence to prescribed training intensity (i.e., swim speed) has been conveyed as a key parameter regarding improvements in seasonal performance. Evidence has also suggested swimmers have difficulty complying with coach-prescribed training. How this compliance is affected by a coaching presence and oversight has yet to be examined. Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine swimmers' compliance to prescribed training intensity during 3 observational conditions using activity monitors. Method: Individualized prediction equations were created via linear regression analyses for intensity using arm-stroke and leg-kick activity counts during a series of seven 91.4-m swim bouts in a group of 17 collegiate swimmers. Equations were used to calculate intensity performed during a standardized training session during which only the observational condition varied (e.g., a coach present on deck, no coach present on deck, and an appointed observer in addition to the coach present on deck). Compliance was calculated from the difference between prescribed training intensity and performed swim intensity. Comparisons were made between observed coaching conditions for compliance using a repeated-measures analysis of variance. Results: Swimmers' compliance to prescribed training intensity during the no-coach condition was less compared with the other conditions, including (a) when a coach was present and (b) when a coach and an additional observer were present ((2)=.58). Conclusion: The presence of a coach or lack thereof appeared to be critical in terms of swimmers' compliance to prescribed training intensity. Additional observation by nonsupervisory individuals appeared to have no significant effect on swimmers' compliance.		[Wright, Brian V.] Depauw Univ, Greencastle, IN 46135 USA; [Stager, Joel M.] Indiana Univ, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Wright, Brian V.] Depauw Univ, Kinesiol Dept, 702 South Coll Ave, Greencastle, IN 46135 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100014	12	Article; Article		
J	Iturricastillo, Aitor; Granados, Cristina; Camara, Jesus; Reina, Raul; Castillo, Daniel; Barrenetxea, Itziar; Lozano, Lander; Yanci, Javier								Differences in Physiological Responses During Wheelchair Basketball Matches According to Playing Time and Competition								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			474	481		10.1080/02701367.2018.1511044			2018	2018	Purpose: The main purpose of the present study was to determine physiological responses in wheelchair basketball (WB) matches in relation to heart rate (HR), match load (ML), differentiated perceived exertion (dRPE), lactate concentrations (LA), and tympanic temperature (TEMP), while specifying the individual player's playing time during different types of matches. Method: Nine Spanish First Division WB players participated in the study. Three groups were determined for each observation (i.e., HR, ML, dRPE, LA, and TEMP) according to the minutes played by the WB players: players who had played 30 min to 40min (WB30-40), those who played 20 min to 30min, and those who played 0 min to 20min. Results: The WB30-40 group attained statistically significantly higher results in mean HR than the other groups in league and playoff matches (p<.05; % > -25.73%; ES > -1.31, large). With regard to the difference in each variable between league and playoff matches, the differences were highlighted in the WB30-40 group according to ML (Edwards, p<.05, %=-11.14%, ES=-0.87, large; Stagno's modified TRIMP, p<.05, %=-16.95%, ES=-0.77, large). Tympanic temperature also reached higher values in playoff matches compared with league matches in WB30-40 (p<.05; %=1.1%; ES=0.67, moderate) but not in LA values. Conclusions: Coaches should take into account that playoff matches were more demanding than league matches, thus forcing coaches to try to peak WB players' physical performance for the former.		[Iturricastillo, Aitor; Granados, Cristina; Camara, Jesus; Castillo, Daniel; Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country, Vitoria, Spain; [Reina, Raul] Miguel Hernandez Univ, Alacant, Spain; [Barrenetxea, Itziar] Osakidetza Basque Hlth Serv, OSI Alto Deba, Arrasate Mondragon, Spain; [Lozano, Lander] Zuzenak Fdn, Vitoria, Spain; [Iturricastillo, Aitor] Univ Basque Country, Fac Educ & Sport, Lasarte 71, Vitoria 01007, Spain								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100011	35	Article; Article		
J	Marchant, David C.; Griffiths, Gillian; Partridge, Julie A.; Belsley, Leah; Porter, Jared M.								The Influence of External Focus Instruction Characteristics on Children's Motor Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			418	428		10.1080/02701367.2018.1512075			2018	2018	Purpose: Research has demonstrated that verbal instructions directing attention externally (i.e., toward the effect of the movement) significantly enhance motor skill performance, and this effect is enhanced when the distance of the external focus relative to the body is increased. However, few studies have investigated this distance-of-focus effect in children. The present study aimed to examine the effect of increasing the distance of an external focus on children's motor performance in 2 experiments. Method: In Experiment 1, children performed standing long jumps under 3 instructional conditions (control, internal attentional focus, and external attentional focus). In Experiment 2, children performed standing long jumps under 4 instructional conditions (control, internal, proximal external attentional focus, and distal external attentional focus). Results: In Experiment 1, results revealed a statistically significant jump distance advantage for the external focus condition. In Experiment 2, a statistically significant jump distance advantage for the distal external focus condition was found. However, instructional and task characteristics beyond distance of focus may have been influential. Conclusions: External focus instructions benefit children's jump performance, but specifically when they are supported by a concrete movement goal reflecting relevant performance criteria. These findings highlight the importance of examining the content of instructions and relevant task characteristics provided to children beyond attentional focus to consider their motivational characteristics.		[Marchant, David C.; Griffiths, Gillian] Edge Hill Univ, Ormskirk, England; [Partridge, Julie A.; Belsley, Leah; Porter, Jared M.] Southern Illinois Univ, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA; [Marchant, David C.] Edge Hill Univ, Dept Sport & Phys Act, Ormskirk L39 4QP, Lancs, England								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100005	38	Article; Article		
J	Antunes, Lara; Bezerra, Ewertton de S.; Sakugawa, Raphael L.; Dal Pupo, Juliano								Effect of cadence on volume and myoelectric activity during agonist-antagonist paired sets (supersets) in the lower body								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	4						10.1080/14763141.2017.1413130			2018	2018	The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of cadence on volume load (VLoad) and muscle activity during agonist -antagonist paired sets (APS) in the lower body. Twelve trained men (24.0 +/- 3.3years; 78.3 +/- 9.7kg; 1.77 +/- 0.58m) volunteered to participate in this study. After the 10 maximum repetition test for leg extension and seated leg curl, participants performed three experimental protocols: first protocol (traditional)three sets of only leg extension (60bpm); second protocol (fast cadence)three sets of leg extension, with each set preceded by one set on the seated leg curl with fast cadence (90bpm); third protocol (slow cadence)similar to the second, but seated leg curl with slow cadence (40bpm). The total number of repetitions, VLoad and the electromyography activity for the vastus lateralis, vastus medialis and rectus femoris muscles were recorded. The VLoad was higher during APS than the traditional method, but the cadence (fast or slow) of antagonist exercise did not influence VLoad. Muscle activity of vastus lateralis was higher during traditional protocol; on the other hand, rectus femoris showed higher activity on APS fast cadence protocol, indicating that APS has a different influence on quadriceps components.		[Antunes, Lara; Bezerra, Ewertton de S.; Sakugawa, Raphael L.; Dal Pupo, Juliano] Santa Catarina Fed Univ, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Bezerra, Ewertton de S.] Amazonas Fed Univ, Human Performance Lab, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Dal Pupo, Juliano] Santa Catarina Fed Univ, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445798400007	20	Article; Article		
J	Fuchs, Philip Xaver; Lindinger, Stefan Josef; Schwameder, Hermann								Kinematic analysis of proximal-to-distal and simultaneous motion sequencing of straight punches								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	4			512	530		10.1080/14763141.2017.1365928			2018	2018	Consecutive proximal-to-distal sequencing of motion is considered to be integral for generating high velocity of distal segments in many sports. Simultaneous usage of proximal and distal segments as seen in martial arts is by far less well investigated. Therefore, the aim of the study was to characterise and differentiate the concepts of consecutive (CSM) and simultaneous (SSM) sequence of motion in straight reverse punches as practised in Practical Wing Chun. Four experienced martial artists succeeded an eligibility test for technical proficiency in both concepts and performed a total number of 20 straight punches per concept. Eight MX13 Vicon cameras (250fps) and Visual3D were used for motion capture and analyses. Both motion concepts showed proximal-to-distal sequencing of maximal joint velocities but, in SSM, this was coupled with simultaneous initiation. Key characteristics were: high pelvis momentum and backswing of shoulder and elbow (CSM); and importance of shoulder involvement (SSM). Different ranges of motion, timing aspects and achieved maximal angular velocities distinguished both concepts, which led to differences (p<0.05) in fist velocity at contact, execution time, distance and horizontal shift of the centre of mass. Proper application of both concepts depends on the environmental setting, situational requirements and individual fighting style.		[Fuchs, Philip Xaver; Lindinger, Stefan Josef; Schwameder, Hermann] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport Sci & Kinesiol, Salzburg, Austria; [Fuchs, Philip Xaver] Univ Salzburg, Dept Sport Sci & Kinesiol, Salzburg, Austria								11							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445798400008	44	Article; Article		
J	Gomes, Beatriz B.; Machado, Leandro; Ramos, Nuno V.; Conceicao, Filipe A. V.; Sanders, Ross H.; Vaz, Mario A. P.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo; Pendergast, David R.								Effect of wetted surface area on friction, pressure, wave and total drag of a kayak								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	4			453	461		10.1080/14763141.2017.1357748			2018	2018	Using theoretical principles, the components of drag (friction D-F, pressure D-PR and wave D-W) of a single-seat kayak were analysed. The purpose was to examine the effect of changes in wetted surface area due to changes in kayaker's weight and the relative contribution of D-F, D-PR and D-W to the total passive drag as function of velocity. The total passive drag values were based on experimental data collected in a single-seat kayak. Three different kayaker simulated weights were tested - 65, 75 and 85kg. D-F was the drag component that contributed the greatest percentage (between 60 and 68% at 5.56m/s the top velocity tested) to the total passive drag for all the velocities tested and simulated weights. D-W was the most affected by the increase in kayaker's simulated weight, mainly when comparing 65/75 to 85kg. Results support the importance of a kayak design selection that minimises the kayak's drag for the individual weight of the kayaker. Also, the results suggest that the path for better hydrodynamic kayak performance should seek changes that can reduce D-F, D-PR and D-W with D-F offering the most potential to reduce passive drag.		[Gomes, Beatriz B.] Univ Coimbra, Res Unit Sport & Phys Act, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Machado, Leandro; Conceicao, Filipe A. V.; Vilas-Boas, Joao Paulo] Univ Porto, Porto Biomech Lab, Fac Sports, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport, Porto, Portugal; [Ramos, Nuno V.; Vaz, Mario A. P.] Univ Porto, Inst Sci & Innovat Mech & Ind Engn, Porto Biomech Lab, Fac Engn, Porto, Portugal; [Sanders, Ross H.] Univ Sydney, Fac Hlth Sci Exercise & Sport Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Pendergast, David R.] SUNY Buffalo, Sch Med & Biomed Sci, Dept Physiol, Ctr Res & Educ Special Environm, Buffalo, NY USA; [Gomes, Beatriz B.] Univ Coimbra, Res Unit Sport & Phys Act, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Coimbra, Portugal								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445798400003	14	Article; Article		
J	Barkwell, Gordon E.; Dickey, James P.								Backstroke start performance: the impact of using the Omega OBL2 backstroke ledge								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	4			429	441		10.1080/14763141.2017.1353130			2018	2018	FINA recently approved the backstroke ledge (Omega OBL2) to improve backstroke start performance in competition, but its performance has not been thoroughly evaluated. The purpose of this study was to compare the mechanics of starts performed with and without the OBL2. Ten high-level backstroke swimmers performed three starts with, and three starts without, the OBL2. A wall-mounted force plate measured the lower limb horizontal impulse, vertical impulse, take-off velocity and take-off angle. Entry distance, time to 10m and start of hip and knee extension were recorded using video cameras. Starts performed with the OBL2 had a 0.13s lower time to 10m, 2.5% less variability in time to 10m and 0.14m greater head entry distance. The OBL2 provides a performance advantage by allowing an increased head entry distance rather than larger horizontal impulse on the wall. This may be due to the swimmers assuming different body positions during the start manoeuvre. Additional studies are needed to evaluate factors that contribute to improved performance when using the OBL2. Swimmers should train with the OBL2 and use it in competition to ensure optimal start performance.		[Barkwell, Gordon E.; Dickey, James P.] Western Univ, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON, Canada; [Dickey, James P.] Western Univ, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON, Canada								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445798400001	24	Article; Article		
J	Le Mansec, Yann; Dorel, Sylvain; Hug, Francois; Jubeau, Marc								Lower limb muscle activity during table tennis strokes								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	4			442	452		10.1080/14763141.2017.1354064			2018	2018	This study aimed to compare the muscle activity of lower limbs across typical table tennis strokes. Fourteen high-level players participated in this study in which five typical strokes (backhand top, forehand top, forehand spin, forehand smash, flick) were analysed. Surface electromyography activity (EMG) of eight muscles was recorded (gluteus maximus, biceps femoris, vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, rectus femoris, gastrocnemius medialis, gastrocnemius lateralis, soleus) and normalised to the maximal activity measured during squat jump or isometric maximal voluntary contractions. The forehand spin, the forehand top and the forehand smash exhibited significant higher EMG amplitude when compared with other strokes. Both biceps femoris and gluteus maximus were strongly activated during the smash, forehand spin and forehand top (from 62.8 to 91.7% of maximal EMG activity). Both vastii and rectus femoris were moderately to strongly activated during the forehand spin (from 50.4 to 62.2% of maximal EMG activity) whereas gastrocnemii and soleus exhibited the highest level of activity during the smash (from 67.1 to 92.1% of maximal EMG activity). Our study demonstrates that offensive strokes, such as smash or forehand top, exhibit higher levels of activity than other strokes.		[Le Mansec, Yann; Dorel, Sylvain; Hug, Francois; Jubeau, Marc] Univ Nantes, Fac Sport Sci, Lab Movement Interact Performance, Nantes, France; [Jubeau, Marc] Univ Nantes, Fac Sport Sci, Lab Movement Interact Performance, Nantes, France								30							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445798400002	38	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Jordan B.; Brown, Stephen H. M.								Time course of the acute effects of core stabilisation exercise on seated postural control								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	4			494	501		10.1080/14763141.2017.1364416			2018	2018	Core stabilisation exercises are often promoted for purposes ranging from general fitness to high-performance athletics, and the prevention and rehabilitation of back troubles. These exercises, when performed properly, may have the potential to enhance torso postural awareness and control, yet the potential for achieving immediate gains has not been completely studied. Fourteen healthy young participants performed a single bout of non-fatiguing core stabilisation exercise that consisted of repeated sets of 2 isometric exercises, the side bridge and the four-point contralateral arm-and-leg extension. Seated postural control, using an unstable balance platform on top of a force plate, was assessed before and after exercise, including multiple time points within a 20-minute follow-up period. Nine standard postural control variables were calculated at each time point, including sway displacement and velocity ranges, root mean squares and cumulative path length. Statistical analysis showed that none of the postural control variables were significantly different at any time point following completion of core stabilisation exercise. Thus, we conclude that a single bout of acute core stabilisation exercise is insufficient to immediately improve seated trunk postural control in young healthy individuals.		[Lee, Jordan B.] Univ Guelph Humber, Dept Kinesiol, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Lee, Jordan B.; Brown, Stephen H. M.] Univ Guelph, Dept Human Hlth & Nutr Sci, Guelph, ON, Canada; [Brown, Stephen H. M.] Univ Guelph, Dept Human Hlth & Nutr Sci, Guelph, ON, Canada								5							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445798400006	18	Article; Article		
J	Pinto, Stephanie Santana; Alberton, Cristine Lima; Cadore, Eduardo Lusa; Kanitz, Ana Carolina; Delevatti, Rodrigo Sudatti; Pantoja, Patricia Dias; Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre; Reichert, Thais; Bregagnol, Luciana Peruchena; Chedid Lisboa, Salime Donida; Martins Kruel, Luiz Fernando								Does Aerobic Exercise Impair Neuromuscular Function During Water-Based Resistance Exercises?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			465	473		10.1080/02701367.2018.1512076			2018	2018	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to investigate the acute effects of water-based aerobic exercises on the performance of water-based resistance exercises by assessing kinematic parameters during protocols and neuromuscular responses after them. Method: Ten women performed 2 water-based protocols (i.e., resistance and concurrent water-based exercises) on separate days. We evaluated isometric force and electromyographic signal (sEMG) before and after protocols and analyzed kinematic parameters during a water-based resistance exercise. Results: There was no significant difference between knee extension force production and sEMG from the vastus lateralis during the maximal voluntary contraction performed before and after the protocols. However, sEMG from the rectus femoris presented a significant difference between pretest and posttest measurements in both water-based protocols with greater values in the measurement after the end of the protocol (p=.046). The peak angular velocity of knee extension and mean angular velocity of knee extension and flexion showed similar values among the sets, with no difference between protocols. The peak angular velocity of knee flexion presented greater values in the water-based resistance exercises compared with the water-based concurrent protocol in the last set (p<.001). Conclusion: The main impairment induced by the water-based concurrent exercises was the lower peak angular velocity in the knee flexors compared with water-based resistance exercises alone.		[Pinto, Stephanie Santana; Cadore, Eduardo Lusa; Kanitz, Ana Carolina; Delevatti, Rodrigo Sudatti; Pantoja, Patricia Dias; Peyre-Tartaruga, Leonardo Alexandre; Reichert, Thais; Bregagnol, Luciana Peruchena; Chedid Lisboa, Salime Donida; Martins Kruel, Luiz Fernando] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Pinto, Stephanie Santana; Alberton, Cristine Lima] Univ Fed Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil; [Kanitz, Ana Carolina] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Uberlandia, MG, Brazil; [Delevatti, Rodrigo Sudatti] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Reichert, Thais] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Phys Educ Physiotherapy & Dance Sch, Swimming Ctr, Felizardo St 750, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								0							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100010	32	Article; Article		
J	Barnes, Matthew J.; Fraser, Jeremy; Coley, Karl; Perry, Blake G.								Is Postexercise Blood Flow Restriction a Viable Alternative to Other Resistance Exercise Protocols?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			504	510		10.1080/02701367.2018.1510170			2018	2018	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to identify whether post-resistance exercise (REx) blood flow restriction (BFR) can elicit a similar acute training stimulus to that offered by either heavy REx or traditional low-load BFR REx. Method: Ten men completed trials with 30% one-repetition maximum (1RM) for 5 sets of 15 repetitions without BFR (30%), with BFR during exercise (30% RD), and with postexercise BFR (30% RP) and at 75% 1RM for 3 sets of 10 repetitions. Lactate and cortisol were measured before and up to 60min after exercise. Thigh circumference, ratings of perceived exertion (RPE), and pain were measured before and after exercise. Surface electromyography was measured during exercise. Results: All conditions had a large effect (effect size [ES] >0.8) on lactate, with the largest effects observed with the 75% condition; no differences were observed between the 30% conditions. All conditions had a moderate effect (ES >0.250.4) on increasing thigh circumference. This effect was maintained (ES=0.35) with the application of BFR after REx (30% RP). Change in RPE, from the first to last set, was significantly greater with 30% RD compared with other conditions (all p<.05). Electromyography amplitude was higher and percentage change was greater for the 75% condition compared with the other conditions (both p<.05). Conclusions: The application of BFR immediately post-REx altered several of the responses associated with REx that is aimed at inducing muscular hypertrophy. Additionally, these changes occurred with less pain and perceived exertion suggesting that this form of REx may offer an alternative, tolerable method of REx.		[Barnes, Matthew J.; Coley, Karl; Perry, Blake G.] Massey Univ, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Fraser, Jeremy] Catalyst Strength & Phys Coaching, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Barnes, Matthew J.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Nutr, Private Bag 11 222, Palmerston North 4442, New Zealand								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100015	26	Article; Article		
J	Lemire, Marcel; Lonsdorfer-Wolf, Evelyne; Isner-Horobeti, Marie-Eve; Kouassi, Blah Y. L.; Geny, Bernard; Favret, Fabrice; Dufour, Stephane P.								Cardiorespiratory Responses to Downhill Versus Uphill Running in Endurance Athletes								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			511	517		10.1080/02701367.2018.1510172			2018	2018	Purpose: Mountain running races are becoming increasingly popular, although our understanding of the particular physiology associated with downhill running (DR) in trained athletes remains scarce. This study explored the cardiorespiratory responses to high-slope constant velocity uphill running (UR) and DR. Method: Eight endurance athletes performed a maximal incremental test and 2 15-min running bouts (UR, + 15%, or DR, -15%) at the same running velocity (8.5 +/- 0.4 km center dot h -1). Oxygen uptake (V_ O2), heart rate (HR), and ventilation rates (V_ E) were continuously recorded, and blood lactate (bLa) was measured before and after each trial. Results: Downhill running induced a more superficial V_ E pattern featuring reduced tidal volume (p <.05, ES = 6.05) but similar respiratory frequency (p >.05, ES = 0.68) despite lower V_ E (p <.05, ES = 5.46), V_ O2 (p <.05, ES = 12.68), HR (p <.05, ES = 6.42), and bLa (p <.05, ES = 1.70). A negative slow component was observed during DR for V_ O2 (p <.05, ES = 1.72) and HR (p <.05, ES = 0.80). Conclusions: These results emphasize the cardiorespiratory responses to DR and highlight the need for cautious interpretation of V_ O2, HR, and V_ E patterns as markers of exercise intensity for training load prescription and management.		[Lemire, Marcel; Lonsdorfer-Wolf, Evelyne; Isner-Horobeti, Marie-Eve; Kouassi, Blah Y. L.; Geny, Bernard; Favret, Fabrice; Dufour, Stephane P.] Univ Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France; [Lonsdorfer-Wolf, Evelyne; Geny, Bernard] Univ Hosp Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France; [Lemire, Marcel] Univ Strasbourg, Translat Med Federat, Fac Med, EA Mitochondria Oxidat Stress & Muscle Protect 30, 4 Rue Kirschleger, F-67085 Strasbourg, France								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100016	29	Article; Article		
J	Harada, Kazuhiro; Masumoto, Kouhei; Kondo, Narihiko								Spousal Concordance for Objectively Measured Sedentary Behavior and Physical Activity Among Middle-Aged and Older Couples								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			440	449		10.1080/02701367.2018.1510171			2018	2018	Purpose: Although it has been proposed that 1 spouse's health behaviors might correlate with the other spouse's health behavior among married couples, few studies have focused on sedentary behavior. This study examined whether objectively measured sedentary behavior and physical activity are correlated with each other and whether attachment to one's spouse moderates such correlations among middle-aged and older married couples. Methods: Seventy-two couples participated in the survey. This study measured time engaged in sedentary behavior and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA), step counts by an accelerometer for 7days, and attachment to one's spouse, age, education, and frailty by questionnaires. Results: Multiple regression analyses showed that the sedentary behaviors of 1 spouse statistically significantly regressed on those of the other spouse (=.30-.47). The regressions of husbands' MVPA and step counts on those of their wives were statistically marginally significant (=.22-.25), while the regressions of wives' MVPA and step counts on those of their husbands were not statistically significant (=.15-.18). The interaction terms of the attachment with one's spousal accelerometer variables on those of the other spouse were not statistically significant (=-.02 to .16). Conclusions: This study revealed that sedentary behaviors were correlated with each other among couples and attachment to one's spouse did not moderate these correlations. Sedentary behaviors of 1 spouse might influence the other, regardless of attachment to one's spouse. The concordance for physical activity was weaker than that for sedentary behavior.		[Harada, Kazuhiro; Masumoto, Kouhei; Kondo, Narihiko] Kobe Univ, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Harada, Kazuhiro] Kobe Univ, Grad Sch Human Dev & Environm, Act Aging Res Hub, 3-11 Tsurukabuto, Kobe, Hyogo 6578501, Japan								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100007	34	Article; Article		
J	Teramoto, Masaru; Cross, Chad L.; Cushman, Daniel M.; Willick, Stuart E.								Boxing fatalities in relation to rule changes in Japan: secondary data analysis								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			349	354		10.1080/00913847.2018.1428028			2018	2018	Objectives: To examine whether changing weigh-in from the same day of the match to the day before the match and prohibiting 6-oz gloves are associated with fatalities in boxing matches sanctioned by the Japan Boxing Commission (JBC). Methods: We analyzed the rates of boxing fatalities before and after the two rule changes above via secondary analysis of data. Demographics and boxing records of deceased boxers were examined using descriptive statistics, exact binomial test the Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon test and Fisher's exact tests. Results: As of this study, a total of 38 boxers (23.9 +/- 3.3 years of age) reportedly died due to injuries sustained in JBC-sanctioned boxing matches since 1952. Changing weigh-in to the day before the match or prohibiting 6-oz gloves was not significantly associated with the rates of boxing fatalities 5 years and 10 years before and after the rule changes (p > 0.05). Deceased boxers after these rule changes were significantly older, completed significantly more rounds in the final match, and were significantly less likely to lose the previous match (prior to the final match) and to do so by knockouts (p < 0.05). Conclusion: Changing weigh-in to the day before the match and prohibiting 6-oz gloves may not result in reducing boxing fatalities.		[Teramoto, Masaru; Cushman, Daniel M.; Willick, Stuart E.] Univ Utah, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, Salt Lake City, UT 84108 USA; [Cross, Chad L.] Univ Nevada, Sch Med, Dept Radiat Oncol, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Cross, Chad L.] Univ Nevada, Sch Community Hlth Sci, Dept Environm & Occupat Hlth, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Teramoto, Masaru] Univ Utah, Sch Med, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, 590 Wakara Way, Salt Lake City, UT 84108 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700014	25	Article; Article		
J	Bauer, Pascal; Zeissler, Sven; Walscheid, Ruediger; Frech, Torsten; Hillebrecht, Andree								Acute effects of high-intensity exercise on hematological and iron metabolic parameters in elite male and female dragon boating athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			335	341		10.1080/00913847.2018.1482187			2018	2018	Objective: To investigate the acute effects of high-intensity exercise on blood hepcidin levels and other iron metabolic and hematological parameters in highly trained athletes of dragon boating as a sport performed in a sitting position. Methods: We conducted an exercise intervention study with a pre- and posttest blood measurement to determine the effects of high-intensity training on hematological and iron metabolic parameters in both male (n = 19) and female (n = 12) elite athletes of the German national dragon boating team. The study took place during the final training camp before the European championships. Blood samples were collected at baseline and 3 h after 3 consecutive high-intensity training bouts at the same day, each one lasting 1 h in duration. Results: After exercise, leukocytes, CPK, CKMB, and hepcidin levels increased significantly both in men and women. In contrast, iron concentrations decreased significantly. No gender-related differences were found. Compared with baseline, the postexercise concentrations of serum iron decreased significantly both in men [99.346.3 to 61.2 +/- 20.9 mu g/dL (p < 0.001)] and in women [116.3 +/- 34 to 67.1 +/- 21.8 mu g/dL (p < 0.001)] without a gender difference (p = 0.28). Hepcidin levels increased significantly both in men [9.1 +/- 6.5 to 12.2 +/- 5.8 ng/mL (p < 0.001)] and in women [8.0 +/- 4.6 to 11.7 +/- 5.7 ng/mL (p < 0.001)] without a significant gender difference in hepcidin changes (p = 0.34). Conclusions: In conclusion, three consecutive high-intensity training bouts lead to elevated hepcidin levels and decreased iron levels in elite athletes of dragon boating. The increase in hepcidin levels may contribute to the risk of anemia in these athletes.		[Bauer, Pascal] Univ Hosp Giessen, Cardiol & Angiol, Klin Str 33, D-35392 Giessen, Germany; [Zeissler, Sven] Dynam Fitness Club Zwickau, Zwickau, Germany; [Walscheid, Ruediger] MVZ Lab Med & Microbiol Koblenz Mittelrhein, Koblenz, Germany; [Frech, Torsten] Justus Liebig Univ Giessen, Sports Med, Giessen, Germany; [Hillebrecht, Andree] Medbase Luzern, Luzern, Switzerland; [Bauer, Pascal] Univ Hosp Giessen, Cardiol & Angiol, Klin Str 33, D-35392 Giessen, Germany								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700012	30	Article; Article		
J	Biernacki, Jessica L.; Stracciolini, Andrea; Griffith, Kelsey L.; D'Hemecourt, Pierre A.; Owen, Michael; Sugimoto, Dai								Association between coping skills, past injury and hip pain and function in adolescent elite female ballet dancers								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			385	392		10.1080/00913847.2018.1423853			2018	2018	Objectives: The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between coping skills and current hip pain and function scores in ballet dancers. Secondly, we examined the relationship between coping skills and past injuries. Thirdly, we investigated the association between past injuries and current pain and function scores. Methods: This was a cross-sectional observational study. Twenty-six young elite female dancers (mean age 15.9 years, range 14-17 years) participated. Participants completed surveys indicating past injury history, rating pain and function on the short International Hip Outcome Tool (iHOT-12), and assessing coping skills on the Athletic Coping Skills Inventory Score (ACSI-28). Independent t-tests, Cohen's d, effect size, chi-square and correlation coefficient and determination analyses were conducted. Results: There was no significant relationship between iHOT-12 scores and ACSI-28 scores (r = -0.250, p = 0.087). There was no significant difference (p = 0.289) in past injuries comparing those with ACSI-28 scores above and below the mean ACSI-28. A significant moderate negative correlation was detected between both iHOT-12 scores and total past injuries (r = -0.609, p < 0.001), and iHOT-12 scores and past non-hip injuries (r = -0.628, p < 0.001). Conclusion: Past injuries may influence current hip pain and function in young female dancers. Correlation determination (r(2)) indicated that 37% of current pain and function scores were explained by total past injuries in a small group of young high-level ballet dancers. Further research should engage a prospective design to investigate the predictive ability of findings.		[Biernacki, Jessica L.] Univ Melbourne, Melbourne Med Sch, Parkville, Vic, Australia; [Stracciolini, Andrea; Griffith, Kelsey L.; D'Hemecourt, Pierre A.; Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Stracciolini, Andrea; Griffith, Kelsey L.; D'Hemecourt, Pierre A.; Sugimoto, Dai] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Stracciolini, Andrea; D'Hemecourt, Pierre A.; Sugimoto, Dai] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA USA; [Owen, Michael] Walnut Hill Sch Dance Community Acad, Natick, MA USA; [Biernacki, Jessica L.] Univ Melbourne, Melbourne Med Sch, Melbourne, Vic 3010, Australia								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700019	24	Article; Article		
J	Nikolaidis, Pantelis Theodoros; Knechtle, Beat								Pacing strategies by age in marathon cross-country skiing								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			367	373		10.1080/00913847.2018.1430450			2018	2018	Objectives: Pacing strategies have mainly been investigated for runners, but little is known for cross-country skiers. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether differences in pacing strategies do exist between younger and older cross-country skiers competing in the 42 km 'Engadin Ski Marathon'. Methods: Pacing was studied in 105,565 cross-country skiers (classified in 5-year age groups) competing between 1998 and 2016 in this race by examining changes of mean section velocity in 10 km (Change A, i.e. 100x(velocity in the 10-20 km section - velocity in the 0-10 km section)/velocity in the 0-10 km section), 20 km (Change B) and 35 km (Change C). Results: A small sexxdistance (i.e. Change A versus Change B versus Change C) interaction on change of velocity was shown (P < .001, eta(2) = 0.016), with women showing a less even pacing than men. In women, there was a trivial main effect of age group on Change A (P < .001, eta(2) = 0.008) with a smaller decrease in velocity in age group <20 (-7.4%) and larger decrease in velocity in age group 75-79 (-12.8%), and Change B (P = .006, eta(2) = 0.004) with smaller increase in velocity in age group 75-79 (+30.6%) and larger increase in velocity in age group 40-44 (+37.7%), but not on Change C (P = .784, eta(2) = 0.003). In men, a small main effect of age group on Change A was shown (P < .001, eta(2) = 0.019), with a smaller decrease of velocity in age group <20 (-3.5%) and larger in age group 70-74 (-10.5%). Trivial main effects of age group on Change B (P < .001, eta(2) = .002), with a smaller increase of velocity in age group 85-89 (+25.8%) and larger increase in age group 70-74 (+33.0%), and Change C (P < .001, eta(2) = 0.003), with smaller decrease of velocity in age group 85-89 (-38.2%) and larger decrease in age group 80-84 (-41.0%), were found. Conclusions: Based on these findings, it was concluded that men and young cross-country skiers had a more even pacing than women and older cross-country skiers, which was in contrast with previous findings in other endurance sports, suggesting that the sex- and age-related differences in pacing might be sport-dependent.		[Nikolaidis, Pantelis Theodoros] Exercise Physiol Lab, Nikaia, Greece; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl, Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Univ Zurich, Inst Primary Care, Zurich, Switzerland; [Knechtle, Beat] Medbase St Gallen Vadianpl, Vadianstr 26, CH-9001 St Gallen, Switzerland								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700017	28	Article; Article		
J	Lemme, Nicholas J.; Ready, Lauren; Faria, Meghan; DeFroda, Steven F.; Gil, Joseph A.; Owens, Brett D.								Epidemiology of boxing-related upper extremity injuries in the United States								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			503	508		10.1080/00913847.2018.1516478			2018	2018	Objective: The incidence of boxing-related upper-extremity (UE) injuries in the United States has not been well characterized. Recent rule changes have been made to make participation safer for athletes, although the consequences of such rule changes on injury rates is unclear. Therefore, we sought to determine the incidence, characteristics, and trends of boxing-related UE injuries. Methods: The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) was queried for the years 2012-2016. All UE injuries related to boxing from 2012 to 2016 that occurred during organized boxing participation were selected. Examined variables included injured body party, injury diagnosis, patient age, and sex. Annual injury incidence rates by body part and diagnosis were calculated. Results: The mean incidence of boxing-related UE injuries from 2012 to 2016 was 673 injuries (95% CI 537-809) per 100,000 person-years, with hand fractures being the most common injury (132 (95% CI 130-135) per 100,000 person-years). The incidence of UE injury significantly declined from 865 (95% CI 846-884) per 100,000 person-years in 2012 to 656 (95% CI 642-671) per 100,000 person-years in 2016 (p < 0.01). Injuries to the hand exhibited the largest decrease, declining by 33%. The majority of boxers sustaining UE injuries were male (84.4%) and between the ages of 20-39 (59.9%). Conclusions: Injuries to the UE due to participation in boxing accounted for thousands of emergency department visits in the United States annually, with males younger than 20 years of age, most susceptible to injury. Injuries to the hand, wrist and shoulder occurred at the highest rate. Finally, following rule changes made by sanctioning organizations in 2013, a significant decline in boxing-related UE injuries were observed.		[Lemme, Nicholas J.; Ready, Lauren; DeFroda, Steven F.; Gil, Joseph A.; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Alpert Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Faria, Meghan] Univ Rhode Isl, Dept Exercise Sci, Kingston, RI 02881 USA; [Lemme, Nicholas J.] Dept Orthopaed, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA								21							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500016	30	Article; Article		
J	Cater, Carlee; MacDonald, Mackenzie; Lithwick, Daniel; Sidhu, Kamal; Isserow, Saul; McKinney, James								Perspectives on pre-participation cardiovascular screening in young competitive athletes: U SPORT								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			509	514		10.1080/00913847.2018.1516107			2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate the pre-participation cardiovascular screening (PPS) protocols currently implemented at U SPORTS (the governing body of university sport in Canada) sanctioned schools as well as the attitudes toward PPS as reported by Canadian University medical and athletic personnel. Methods: A 15-question survey was sent to the U SPORTS athletic directors in both French and English. The survey focused on the current practices of PPS within the respondents' universities as well as attitudes regarding PPS. Athletic directors distributed the instructions to participate in the voluntary survey at their own discretion to coaches, athletic therapists, physicians, and associated personnel working within U SPORTS-sanctioned schools. Results: Twenty-three athletic therapists, 12 coaches, 6 physicians, and 5 associated personnel completed the survey (46 in total). Half of the respondents (52%) reported that some form of PPS was conducted at their institution. Eighty percent of respondents agreed with the implementation of mandatory PPS, and 60% reported that they believe their athletes have a neutral attitude toward PPS. Three respondents documented having witnessed an athlete's sudden cardiac arrest/death. Conclusion: Members of the athletic care teams at U SPORTS-sanctioned schools display an overall positive attitude toward the implementation of mandatory PPS. Based on concerns raised by survey respondents, PPS procedures would need to be developed in a time- and cost-effective manner if PPS were to be expanded.		[Cater, Carlee; MacDonald, Mackenzie; Lithwick, Daniel; Isserow, Saul; McKinney, James] Univ British Columbia, Div Cardiol, SportsCardiologyBC, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Lithwick, Daniel] Weill Cornell Grad Sch Med Sci, New York, NY USA; [Sidhu, Kamal] Univ British Columbia, Fac Med, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Isserow, Saul; McKinney, James] Univ British Columbia, Div Cardiol, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [McKinney, James] SportsCardiologyBC, Div Cardiol, 2211 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 2B5, Canada								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500017	34	Article; Article		
J	Clennin, Morgan N.; Demissie, Zewditu; Michael, Shannon L.; Wright, Carly; Silverman, Stephen; Chriqui, Jamie; Pate, Russell R.								Secular Changes in Physical Education Attendance Among US High School Students, 1991-2015								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	4			403	410		10.1080/02701367.2018.1502411			2018	2018	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine changes in school-based physical education (PE) attendance over time among nationally representative samples of U.S. high school students and how changes in PE attendance have varied across demographic subgroups. Method: Student demographic information and PE attendance data were obtained from 13 biennial cycles (1991-2015) of the national Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS). Physical education variables derived from YRBS data included PE attendance, daily PE, average PE days/week, and PE frequency. Logistic regression models examined trends in PE attendance, daily PE, and PE frequency for the overall sample and demographic subgroups. Linear regression models examined trends in average PE days/week in the overall sample only. Results: Overall, there was no significant change in the percentage of students reporting PE attendance during 1991 to 2015. However, daily PE and average PE days/week declined significantly from 1991 to 1995 (41.6% to 25.4% and 4.64 days to 3.64days, respectively) and then remained stable through 2015 (29.8% and 4.11days, respectively). The percentage of students reporting a PE frequency of 3days per week increased significantly from 1991 to 1995 (1.5% to 19.0%) before stabilizing through 2015 (9.1%). Trends across demographic subgroups revealed notable differences in PE attendance. Conclusions: Study findings showed that U.S. schools have not substantially reduced PE amounts in recent years. Still, the prevalence of PE attendance among U.S. high school students is well below recommendations. For PE to contribute to increased adolescent compliance with national physical activity guidelines, significant policy actions are needed to improve PE access for all students.		[Clennin, Morgan N.; Pate, Russell R.] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC USA; [Demissie, Zewditu; Michael, Shannon L.] Ctr Dis Control & Prevent, Atlanta, GA USA; [Demissie, Zewditu] US Publ Hlth Serv Commissioned Corps, North Bethesda, MA USA; [Wright, Carly] SHAPE Amer Soc Hlth & Phys Educ, Reston, VA USA; [Silverman, Stephen] Columbia Univ, New York, NY 10027 USA; [Chriqui, Jamie] Univ Illinois, Chicago, IL USA; [Clennin, Morgan N.] Univ South Carolina, Arnold Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Exercise Sci, 921 Assembly St,Suite 212, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452006100003	38	Article; Article		
J	Guthrie, Robert								Physical activity following acute concussion and persistent postconcussive symptoms in children and adolescents								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			416	419		10.1080/00913847.2018.1516479			2018	2018	The management of concussion in pediatric patients has always been guided by treatment guidelines that have been drawn from consensus statements rather than clinical research projects. Grool and colleagues conducted a clinical research project on an early return to physical activity and its effect on post-concussion symptoms. The study enrolled 3063 pediatric patients, age 5.0 to 17.99 years of age who presented to one of nine Pediatric Emergency Research Centers in Canada. 2413 patients completed the primary outcome for exposure. A total of 1677 patients (69.5%) instituted some level of early physical activity, including light aerobic exercise (n = 795 or 32.9%), sport-specific exercise (n = 214 or 8.9%), non-contact drills (n = 143 or 5.9%), full-contact practice (n = 106 or 4.4%), or full competition (n = 419 or 17.4%), while 736 (30.5%) instituted no physical activity. Patients were evaluated by a web-based survey or a telephone-based survey at days 7 and 28 after their initial visit, and their symptoms were evaluated by using the Post Concussive Symptom Inventory (PCSI). Early return to physical activity was associated with a lower risk of Persistent Post-Concussive Syndrome (PPCS) than in patients reporting no physical activity at 28 days (24.6% vs. 43.5%, Absolute risk difference, (ARD), 18.9% (95% CI 14.7-23.0%). Among the sub-group of patients who were symptomatic at day 28 (n = 803), PPCS was more present in the patients that reported no physical activity, (n = 584: PPCS 52.9%), than those with light aerobic activity (n = 494 [46.4%; ARD, 6.5%; 95% CI 5.7-12.5%], moderate activity [n = 176 (38.6%; ARD, 14.3%; 95% CI 5.9%-22.2%], or full contact activity [n = 133 (36.1%; ARD, 16.8%; 95% CI 7.5%-25.5%]. Therefore, in patients aged 5 to 18 years with acute concussion, a return to physical activity within 7 days of acute injury was associated with less symptoms at 28 days than in patients who had a period of prolonged rest rather than an early return to physical activity.		[Guthrie, Robert] Ohio State Univ, Emergency Med, Dublin, OH USA; [Guthrie, Robert] Ohio State Univ, Dublin, OH 43017 USA								3							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500003	17	Article; Article		
J	Coratella, Giuseppe; Longo, Stefano; Ce, Emiliano; Limonta, Eloisa; Rampichini, Susanna; Bisconti, Angela Valentina; Schena, Federico; Esposito, Fabio								Sex-Related Responses to Eccentric-Only Resistance Training in Knee-Extensors Muscle Strength and Architecture								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			347	353		10.1080/02701367.2018.1472734			2018	2018	Purpose: The present study aimed to investigate whether or not eccentric-only training induced different sex-related adaptations in vastus lateralis muscle architecture and knee extensors strength. Methods: Thirteen healthy women and 13 healthy men were recruited. Vastus lateralis pennation angle, fascicle length, and muscle thickness, as well as knee extensors eccentric, isometric, and concentric peak torque and one-repetition maximum (1RM) were measured. Both women and men underwent a unilateral iso-load knee-extension eccentric-only training with 120% of the concentric 1RM, consisting of 4 sets x 10 repetitions twice a week for a total of 8weeks. Results: Pennation angle increased in women (+ 14%, 95% CI [10, 17], effect size [ES]=1.54) but not in men (+ 5%, 95% CI [-1, 11], ES=0.28), while fascicle length increased in both women (+ 7%, 95% CI [4, 10], ES=1.02) and men (+ 12%, 95% CI [8, 16], ES=1.82) and muscle thickness increased in women (+ 13%, 95% CI [8, 18], ES=1.11) and men (+ 11%, 95% CI [7, 15], ES=0.89). In both women and men, eccentric (18%, 95% CI [11, 25], ES=0.96, and 16%, 95% CI [9, 22], ES=0.82, respectively), isometric (17%, 95% CI [11, 23], ES=0.53, and 17%, 95% CI [10, 24], ES=0.62), concentric (12%, 95% CI [7, 16], ES=0.49, and 9%, 95% CI [5, 13], ES=0.42) peak torque and 1RM (10%, 95% CI [6, 14], ES=0.53, and 10%, 95% CI [5, 15], ES=0.50) similarly increased after the intervention. Conclusions: This study showed that the adaptations in strength are not sex-dependent, but the increases in pennation angle only in women suggest that the changes in muscle architecture may depend on sex.		[Coratella, Giuseppe; Longo, Stefano; Ce, Emiliano; Limonta, Eloisa; Rampichini, Susanna; Bisconti, Angela Valentina; Esposito, Fabio] Univ Milan, Milan, Italy; [Coratella, Giuseppe; Schena, Federico] Univ Verona, Verona, Italy; [Esposito, Fabio] IRCCS Don Gnocchi Fdn, Milan, Italy; [Coratella, Giuseppe] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Via Giuseppe Colombo 71, I-20133 Milan, Italy								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800009	30	Article; Article		
J	Dale, Julian; Glaister, Mark								Moderate-Intensity Oxygen Uptake Kinetics: Is a Mono-Exponential Function Always Appropriate to Model the Response?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			309	321		10.1080/02701367.2018.1482399			2018	2018	Purpose: This study investigated the existence of the oxygen uptake (<) overshoot and the effects of exercise intensity and fitness status on the " response during moderate-intensity exercise. Methods: Twelve high-fitness (M-age = 26 +/- 5years; M-height = 184.1 +/- 5.4cm; M-body mass = 76.6 +/- 8.9kg; mean peak oxygen uptake (") = 59.0 +/- 3.3mL kg(-1) min(-1)) and 11 moderate-fitness (M-age = 29 +/- 5years; M-height = 178.7 +/- 7.5cm; M-body mass = 81.7 +/- 10.9kg; M-V.O2peak = 45.2 +/- 3.1mLkg(-1)min(-1)) participants performed square-wave transitions from unloaded cycling to 3 different intensities (70%, 82.5%, and 95% of the gas exchange threshold). The data were modeled using both a mono-exponential function (Model 1) and a function that included a switch-on component (Model 2). The overshoot was computed by subtracting the steady state from the peak of the modeled response and by calculating the area of the curve that was above steady state. Results: The goodness of fit was affected by model type (p=.002) and exercise intensity (p<.001). High-fitness participants displayed a smaller (p<.05) and a larger amplitude (p<.05) and were more likely to overshoot the steady state (p=.035). However, while exercise intensity did affect the amplitude (p<.001), it did not affect (p.05) or the likelihood of an overshoot occurring (p=.389). Conclusion: While exercise intensity did not alter the " response, fitness status affected and the likelihood of an overshoot occurring. The overshoot questions the traditional approach to modeling moderate-intensity "data.		[Dale, Julian; Glaister, Mark] St Marys Univ, Twickenham, England; [Glaister, Mark] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Waldegrave Rd,Strawberry Hill, Twickenham TW1 4SX, England								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800005	31	Article; Article		
J	Fazekas, Matthew L.; Sugimoto, Dai; Cianci, Andrea; Minor, Jonathan L.; Corrado, Gianmichel D.; d'Hemecourt, Pierre A.								Ultrasound examination and patellar tendinopathy scores in asymptomatic college jumpers								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			477	484		10.1080/00913847.2018.1513756			2018	2018	Objective: To investigate the prevalence of hypoechoic areas by US and its' association with VISA-P scores among asymptomatic jumpers while highlighting sex comparisons. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Pre-participation exam at a National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) division I college. Participants: Thirty-one college athletes who engage in jumping sports. Main outcome measures: Hypoechoic images of patellar tendon captured by ultrasound examination were compared to a self-reported knee functional survey, the Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment for patellar tendinopathy (VISA-P) scale (0-100). Results: With a total of 31 athletes (13 males and 18 females), prevalence rate of the hypoechoic areas of patellar tendon was 19.4% (6/31) in the right knee and 29.0% (9/31) in the left knee. There was no proportional difference in a comparison of prevalence rate of hypoechoic area [(+) or (-)] by sex in either right or left knee. The VISA-P scores were significantly lower in US (+) than US (-) in the right knee (p = 0.003, Cohen's d = 1.675), but not the left knee (p = 0.250, Cohen's d = 0.512). The receiver operating characteristics curve analysis indicated the most sensitive and specific VISA-P values based on status [(+) or (-)] of hypoechoic area was 89.5 with 86.4% and 77.7% of sensitivity and specificity. Conclusion: In short, hypoechoic areas were detected by US examination among self-reported asymptomatic jumpers. There was an association between hypoechoic areas and VISA-P scores in the right knee, but not in left knee. VISA-P scores may be used as a screening tool for the presence of hypoechoic areas.		[Fazekas, Matthew L.] Joe DiMaggio Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Hollywood, FL USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Corrado, Gianmichel D.; d'Hemecourt, Pierre A.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Cianci, Andrea; Minor, Jonathan L.; Corrado, Gianmichel D.; d'Hemecourt, Pierre A.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthopaed, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Corrado, Gianmichel D.; d'Hemecourt, Pierre A.] Harvard Med Sch, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Boston, MA USA; [Minor, Jonathan L.] Sports Med Rehabil & Concuss Ctr, Tucson, AZ USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Boston Childrens Hosp, USAThe Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, 9 Hope Ave,Suite 100, Waltham, MA 02453 USA								16							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500012	41	Article; Article		
J	Erwin, Heather; Brusseau, Timothy A.; Carson, Russell; Hodge, Samuel; Kang, Minsoo								SHAPE America's 50 Million Strong<SUP>TM</SUP>: Critical Research Questions Related to Youth Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			286	297		10.1080/02701367.2018.1490607			2018	2018	SHAPE America - Society of Health and Physical Educators has targeted youth physical activity (PA) as 1 of its 4 goals within the 50 Million Strong(TM) campaign. Only 27.1% of youth met the target of all students (preK-12) participating in at least 60min of PA that increases their heart rate enough to breathe hard at least some of the time for 7days/week. Thus, improvements for child and adolescent engagement in PA need to be made now through 2029 and beyond. The need for these improvements warrants research related to PA and youth. We present a plethora of research questions within 3 general areas: PA and school PA programs, PA and sedentary behavior measurement, and PA and social justice imperatives. Each question is framed within the social-ecological framework levels of learning, opportunity, policy, and population health.		[Erwin, Heather] Univ Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40506 USA; [Brusseau, Timothy A.] Univ Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA; [Carson, Russell] Univ Northern Colorado, Greeley, CO 80639 USA; [Hodge, Samuel] Ohio State Univ, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Kang, Minsoo] Univ Mississippi, University, MS 38677 USA; [Erwin, Heather] Univ Kentucky, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Promot, 115 Seaton Bldg, Lexington, KY 40506 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800003	82	Article; Article		
J	Buskard, Andrew N. L.; Gregg, Heath R.; Ahn, Soyeon								Supramaximal Eccentrics Versus Traditional Loading in Improving Lower-Body 1RM: A Meta-Analysis								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			340	346		10.1080/02701367.2018.1472365			2018	2018	Guidelines for improving maximal concentric strength through resistance training (RT) have traditionally included large muscle-group exercises, full ranges of motion, and a load approximating 85% of the 1-repetition maximum (1RM). Supramaximal eccentric training (SME; controlled lowering of loads above the concentric 1RM) has also been shown to be effective at increasing concentric 1RM in the lower body, but concerns regarding injury risk, postexercise soreness, and null benefit over traditional methods (TRAD) may limit the practical utility of this approach. Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine whether SME elicits greater lower-body strength improvements than TRAD. Method: Key inclusion criteria were regular exercise modalities typical of nonspecialized exercise facilities (e.g., leg press; key exclusion: isokinetic dynamometer) and at least 6weeks of RT exposure, leading to 5 studies included in the current meta-analysis. Unbiased effect-size measures that quantify the mean difference in lower-body 1RM between SME and TRAD were extracted. Results: Supramaximal eccentric training did not appear to be more effective than TRAD at increasing lower-body 1RM (= .33, SE=.26, z=1.26, 95% CI[-0.20, 0.79], p=.20, I-2=56.78%) under a random-effects model where between-study variance was estimated using maximum likelihood estimation (2=.25). Conclusion: The selection of SME over TRAD in RT programs designed to increase lower-body 1RM does not appear warranted in all populations. Further research should clarify the merit of periodic SME in TRAD-dominant RT programs as well as whether a differential effect exists in trained individuals.		[Buskard, Andrew N. L.; Gregg, Heath R.; Ahn, Soyeon] Univ Miami, Coral Gables, FL 33124 USA; [Buskard, Andrew N. L.] Univ Miami, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Sci, 5202 Univ Dr, Coral Gables, FL 33124 USA								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800008	25	Article; Article		
J	Cepeda-Carrion, Ignacio; Cepeda-Carrion, Gabriel								How public sport centers can improve the sport consumer experience								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	3			350	367		10.1108/IJSMS-02-2017-0008			2018	2018	Purpose The sport consumer experience is becoming an important aspect to sport center's management. From this point, the purpose of this paper is to explore and examine the relationship between sport centers' absorptive capacity and sport consumer experience, proposing that internal knowledge management processes act as mediators in this relationship. Design/methodology/approach The study offers empirical insights by applying the consistent PLS algorithm (PLSc-SEM) in an analysis of data from 156 sport centers in Andalusia (Spain) and a sample of 3,150 sport users from these sport centers. Findings The results demonstrate that a sport center's absorptive capacity for external knowledge is crucial for enhancing the sport consumer experience and also that this effect requires additional knowledge management, such as the sport center's knowledge storage and knowledge application. Practical implications The practical implication for sport center managers is that knowledge management processes have a very strong influence on the sport consumer experience, when they are managed in a sequential way. Originality/value The main value of this paper is draw conclusions using a study of sport managers and sport consumers to increase value experience of those ones.		[Cepeda-Carrion, Ignacio; Cepeda-Carrion, Gabriel] Univ Seville, Dept Business Management, Seville, Spain; [Cepeda-Carrion, Gabriel] Univ Seville, Dept Business Management, Seville, Spain								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000440938600007	86	Article; Article		
J	Hills, Stephen; Heere, Bob; Walker, Matt								The British Olympic football team: A quasi-experimental assessment of support for a new sport team among Scottish and English football fans								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	3			276	289		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2016-0017			2018	2018	Purpose The decision by the British Olympic Association to enter a soccer team into the Olympic Games of 2012, having not participated in the Olympic soccer competition since 1960, provided an opportunity to study representation as a predictor of fan identification. The paper aims to discuss this issue. Design/methodology/approach Using a quasi-experimental research design, the authors empirically validated the value of representation by comparing the identity levels of homogeneous samples of English and Scottish respondents toward the Great Britain Olympic National Football, participating in the Olympic Games of 2012. Findings Only partial support for four sets of hypotheses was found. In general, there seemed to be low levels of identity of each of the samples with the football team, because neither English nor Scottish respondents perceived the team to be representative of them. Nevertheless, the results support the general notion that representation is a valuable predictor of consumer identification. Originality/value Representation has been proposed as a central component of a sport team's ability to serve as a symbol to their community, which enables the team to benefit from existing fan identities and the community the team is associated with. Yet, an empirical assessment of this phenomenon is lacking.		[Hills, Stephen] London Metropolitan Univ, London, England; [Heere, Bob] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Walker, Matt] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Educ & Human Dev, College Stn, TX USA; [Hills, Stephen] London Metropolitan Univ, London, England								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000440938600002	66	Article; Article		
J	Drivdal, Morten Halsteinli; Nordahl, Helge A.; Rones, Hakon								Sponsoring of professional cycling: what does it mean for stock prices?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	1			74	90		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2016-0070			2018	2018	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to assess how sponsorships affect firm values in professional cycling. Both the effect of entering a sponsorship contract and reactions to good or bad news during the contract period are investigated. Doping scandals are used as examples of bad news and race wins as examples of good news. Design/methodology/approach - The well-known event-study methodology of analyzing stock prices is used. In order to avoid unnecessary noise, the main emphasis is on short-term stock market effects. Findings - The main original finding is a significant negative reaction to doping scandals within the sponsored team, indicating that the outcome of sponsoring agreements is important for investors. There are no significant stock market reactions to the announcement of sponsorships, hence sponsoring cycling teams in general are perceived as value neutral to the sponsor. Originality/value - The paper encourages sponsors and cycling teams to focus on anti-doping measures as doping scandals are perceived as value destructive. This contradicts previous studies with smaller data samples. The negative impact of doping scandals outweighs the potential positive effects of winning cycling races.		[Drivdal, Morten Halsteinli; Nordahl, Helge A.; Rones, Hakon] OsloMet Oslo Metropolitan Univ, Oslo Business Sch, Oslo, Norway; [Nordahl, Helge A.] OsloMet Oslo Metropolitan Univ, Oslo Business Sch, Oslo, Norway								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000440259100006	47	Article; Article		
J	Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel; Calabuig Moreno, Ferran								Assessing the effectiveness of sponsorship messaging Measuring the impact of congruence through electroencephalogram								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	1			25	40		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2016-0067			2018	2018	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to represent a pilot study which aims to explore the attention to sponsorship variable by assessing the level of congruence linked to both the sponsor and the sponsored entity (sponsee). Design/methodology/approach - This research performed an experiment involving three different sporting activities where the level of congruence was perceived in a different way according to the different attributes of sponsorship message. Electroencephalograms were employed in order to measure reaction times when recognizing and identifying the level of congruence of sponsorship messages. The rate of successful understanding and identification of these sponsorship messages was also measured with this tool. Findings - Incongruent, misfit messages are processed and encoded with a higher level of attention as opposed to the information which is reliable and consistent with prior expectations (congruent pairings). This means that subjects find fit, congruent messages more difficult to identify; in this case the information is poorly encoded and often misunderstood. In relation to attention congruity, this research found no differences across the different sporting activities which were examined. Practical implications - This research proves that neuroscientific methods can be useful to assess the performance of sponsorship as an alternative to traditional techniques. In addition, this research contributes to the existing debate in the literature regarding the disagreeing results on the actual effectiveness of sponsoring congruent perceived events involving congruent perceived sports teams. Originality/value - This paper is pioneering in the measurement of sponsorship performance through the use of electroencephalograms. Also, the level of attention is considered as a performance indicator.		[Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Concepcion, Chile; [Calabuig Moreno, Ferran] Univ Valencia, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Valencia, Spain; [Alonso Dos Santos, Manuel] Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Concepcion, Chile								41							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000440259100003	53	Article; Article		
J	Schmidt, Steffen; Limbach, Matthias; Langner, Sascha; Wiedmann, Klaus-Peter; Albertsen, Levke; Reiter, Philipp								Official sports sponsorship fortress vs ambush marketing attack Investigating the impact on implicit and explicit brand knowledge								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	1			91	108		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2016-0071			2018	2018	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to assess the effectiveness of event-related sports sponsorship and ambushing activity using social media video advertising that aim to affect spectators' implicit and explicit brand information processing. Design/methodology/approach - A dual model of brand knowledge is used that considers the implicit and explicit information processing of marketing-induced brand messages. A web study was conducted prior to the 2014 FIFA World Cup. Each participant implicitly and explicitly evaluated either one sponsor brand or one ambush brand before and after watching the video advertisement (within-subject design). A Wilcoxon signed-rank test was used to evaluate each change of the pre-post testing scores. Findings - Implicit and explicit brand associations as well as brand behavior were partially affected by the short contact with the advertisements of sponsor brands and ambush brands. In this regard, the implicit association measurements were more sensitive to reveal changes in the brand knowledge structure than their explicit counterparts. Furthermore, sponsorship advertising was slightly more effective than ambush advertising. Originality/value - The current exploratory study evaluated for the first time the performance of event-related video advertisements that were originally released on social media of sponsor brands and ambush brands. The findings emphasize the necessary requirement of evaluating the implicit processing in addition to the explicit processing of sponsorship information to ensure a holistic evaluation of consumers' memory with regard to the effectiveness of a sponsorship activity.		[Schmidt, Steffen; Langner, Sascha; Wiedmann, Klaus-Peter; Albertsen, Levke] Leibniz Univ Hannover, Inst Mkt & Management, Hannover, Germany; [Limbach, Matthias] Europa Fachakad Dr Buhmann, Dept Sport Management & Leadership, Hannover, Germany; [Reiter, Philipp] Eye Sq GmbH, Dept Implicit Res, Berlin, Germany; [Schmidt, Steffen] Leibniz Univ Hannover, Inst Mkt & Management, Hannover, Germany								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000440259100007	94	Article; Article		
J	Jensen, Jonathan A.; Walsh, Patrick; Cobbs, Joe								The moderating effect of identification on return on investment from sponsor brand integration								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	1			41	57		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2016-0077			2018	2018	Purpose - The achievement of a requisite return on investment (ROI) from a brand's investment in sponsorships of sport events is becoming increasingly important. Consequently, evolving trends in the consumption of the live television broadcasts of such events (e.g. increased usage of second screens by consumers) are an important consideration. The purpose of this paper is to examine the impact of second screen use during sport broadcast consumption on important marketing outcomes (i.e. brand awareness and the perceived value and intrusiveness of sponsor brand integration), and whether effectiveness is dependent on the consumer's level of identification with the sport being broadcast. Design/methodology/approach - A 2x2 (experimental/control and high SportID/low SportID) between-subjects experimental design featuring the broadcast of a sport event as the stimuli was utilized to examine a potential interaction effect between sport identification and second screen use on three dependent variables important for sport sponsors. Findings - Results confirmed that those with a high level of sport identification realized significantly higher levels of brand awareness for sponsors integrated into the broadcast. However, when consumers were asked to engage in second screen use, the experiment revealed a moderating effect of sport identification on the impact of second screen use, for both brand awareness and the perceived value of the brand integration. Originality/value - Consumers with higher levels of sport identification are an important target of sport sponsorship activities by brand marketers. Given this, the implication that second screen use can reduce the effectiveness of important sponsorship-related outcomes such as brand awareness is a sobering result for marketers expecting a positive ROI from sponsorships of sport events.		[Jensen, Jonathan A.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Walsh, Patrick] Syracuse Univ, Dept Sport Management, Syracuse, NY USA; [Cobbs, Joe] Northern Kentucky Univ, Dept Mkt & Sports Business, Highland Hts, KY USA; [Jensen, Jonathan A.] Univ N Carolina, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000440259100004	74	Article; Article		
J	Devlin, Michael; Billings, Andrew C.								Examining confirmation biases: implications of sponsor congruency								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	1			58	73		10.1108/IJSMS-10-2016-0078			2018	2018	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to investigate occurrences of confirmation bias existing for sponsors whose brand is congruent to a sport. More specifically, this research investigates: if confirmation biases for congruent brands occur in the absence of exposure, the impact audience segmentation has on sponsorship evaluations by comparing highly identified fans to non-fans, and if congruent sponsors are recalled more often than incongruent sponsors after exposure. Design/methodology/approach - An experiment was conducted to measure how exposure, type of sponsor, and fan identification impacts recognition, attitude, and purchase intention. Findings - The results confirm sport-congruent brands are more likely to be falsely recognized as a sponsor than non-congruent sponsors in the absence of sponsorship participation. Sport consumers' confirmation biases yield positive attitudes and purchase intentions for congruent brands even in the absence of immediate exposure. Lastly, exposure has no impact on recall or sponsor outcomes, suggesting the need for articulating the brand's connection prior to the event to build stronger memory traces. Practical implications - Congruent brands should carefully consider investment costs and expected return on investment, noting benefits of participation might be marginal as a result of confirmation biases. Potential sponsors should also understand cognitive benefits begin before exposure to the sponsorship occurs, and therefore need to articulate a connection to the event prior to exposure by consumers. Originality/value - The findings suggest the importance of confirmation biases when attempting to reach sport consumers. Some brands may be able to increase recall and recognition even in the absence of exposure, thus helping decision makers when managing budgets.		[Devlin, Michael] Texas State Univ, Sch Journalism & Mass Commun, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Billings, Andrew C.] Univ Alabama, Journalism & Creat Media Dept, Tuscaloosa, AL USA; [Devlin, Michael] Texas State Univ, Sch Journalism & Mass Commun, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000440259100005	60	Article; Article		
J	Boronczyk, Felix; Rumpf, Christopher; Breuer, Christoph								Determinants of viewer attention in concurrent event sponsorship								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	1			11	24		10.1108/IJSMS-09-2016-0063			2018	2018	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the impact of exposure-related and consumer-related factors on the return of sponsorship investment through their influence on viewers' attention for sponsor signage. Design/methodology/approach - Data were collected through an experimental study (n = 92) involving eye-tracking and a questionnaire, and were analyzed using regression analysis. Findings - The results show that viewers' attention for sponsor signage is affected by the signage color of concurrent sponsors, as well as viewers' brand familiarity, and sport involvement. In particular, the findings reveal that viewers' attention for sponsor signage increases with greater color contrast between concurrently visible sponsor signage. Further, signage receives more attention if viewers are familiar with the brand and less involved with the sponsored event. Given that attention is an important prerequisite for further processing of sponsorship information, these findings have important implications for managers seeking to evaluate the return on their sponsorship investment. Practical implications - When assessing the return on a sponsorship investment, marketers should consider the characteristics of surrounding sponsor signage and the audience with regard to their impact on viewers' attention for their own signage. Ideally, marketers should attempt to create a greater color contrast between their own signage and its surroundings in order to maximize viewer attention. Originality/value - This paper provides valuable information on the importance of concurrently visible sponsor signage and audience characteristics for the return on investment of sponsorships through their impact on viewers' attention.		[Boronczyk, Felix; Rumpf, Christopher; Breuer, Christoph] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Boronczyk, Felix] German Sport Univ Cologne, Inst Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany								38							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000440259100002	46	Article; Article		
J	Schwabe, Karen; Schwellnus, Martin; Swanevelder, Sonja; Jordaan, Esme; Derman, Wayne; Bosch, Andrew								Leisure athletes at risk of medical complications: outcomes of pre-participation screening among 15,778 endurance runners - SAFER VII								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			405	413		10.1080/00913847.2018.1505569			2018	2018	Objective: International guidelines for pre-participation screening of masters/leisure athletes to identify those that require medical assessment exist, but have not been implemented in mass-community based sports events. We determined the prevalence of runners who, according to these guidelines, would require a medical assessment before participating in a distance running event. Methods: Participants of the 2012 Two Oceans races (21.1 and 56 km) in South Africa (n = 15,778) completed an online pre-race medical screening questionnaire using European pre-participation screening guidelines. We determined the prevalence of runners that would require a pre-race medical assessment, based on risk factors, symptoms, and disease. Results: The pre-participation self assessment of risk screening identified 4,941 runners (31.3%; 95% CI 30.6-32.0) that would need to undergo a full pre-participation medical assessment prior to running, if the current pre-participation screening guidelines are applied. Although musculoskeletal complaints and prescription medication use were the main triggers for a medical assessment, 16.8% (n = 2657) runners should undergo medical evaluation for suspected cardiac disease based on the questionnaire results: 3.4% (n = 538) reporting existing CVD (very high risk) and 13.4% (n = 2119) reporting multiple CVD risk factors (high risk). Other possible risk factors were reported as follows: history of chronic diseases (respiratory = 13.1%, gastro-intestinal = 4.3%, nervous system = 3.8%, metabolic/endocrine = 3.5%, allergies = 13.9%); chronic prescription medication = 14.8%, used medication before or during races = 15.6%; past history of collapse during a race = 1.4%. Conclusions: Current guidelines identified that > 30% runners would require a full medical assessment before race participation - mainly linked to runners reporting musculoskeletal conditions. We suggest a revision of guidelines and propose that pre-race screening should be considered to identify runners with a very high, high, and intermediate risk for medical complications during exercise. Pre-race screening and educational intervention could be implemented to reduce medical complications during exercise.		[Schwabe, Karen; Bosch, Andrew] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Dept Human Biol, Cape Town, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, SEMLI, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin; Derman, Wayne] Int Olymp Comm IOC Res Ctr, Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [Swanevelder, Sonja; Jordaan, Esme] South African Med Res Council, Biostat Unit, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jordaan, Esme] Univ Western Cape, Stat & Populat Studies Dept, Cape Town, South Africa; [Derman, Wayne] Univ Stellenbosch, Inst Sport & Exercise Med, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, SEMLI, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa; [Schwellnus, Martin] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth Sci, Sect Sports Med, Sports Campus,Burnett St, ZA-0020 Pretoria, South Africa								27							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500001	49	Article; Article		
J	Bjerkefors, Anna; Tarassova, Olga; Rosen, Johanna S.; Zakaria, Pascal; Arndt, Anton								Three-dimensional kinematic analysis and power output of elite flat-water kayakers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	3			414	427		10.1080/14763141.2017.1359330			2018	2018	The purpose was to examine power output and three-dimensional (3D) kinematic variables in the upper limbs, lower limbs and trunk in elite flat-water kayakers during kayak ergometer paddling. An additional purpose was to analyse possible changes in kinematics with increased intensity and differences between body sides. Six male and four female international level flat-water kayakers participated. Kinematic and kinetic data were collected during three tasks; low (Int(L)), high (Int(H)) and maximal (Int(M)) intensities. No differences were observed in any joint angles between body sides, except for shoulder abduction. Significantly greater range of motion (RoM) values were observed for Int(H) compared to Int(L) and for Int(M) compared to Int(L) in trunk and pelvis rotation, and in hip, knee and ankle flexion. The mean maximal power output was 610 +/- 65 and 359 +/- 33W for the male and female athletes, respectively. The stroke frequencies were significantly different between all intensities (Int(L) 59.3 +/- 6.3; Int(H) 108.0 +/- 6.8; Int(M) 141.7 +/- 18.4 strokes/min). The results showed that after a certain intensity level, the power output must be increased by other factors than increasing the joint angular RoM. This information may assist coaches and athletes to understand the relationship between the movement of the kayaker and the paddling power output.		[Bjerkefors, Anna; Tarassova, Olga; Rosen, Johanna S.; Zakaria, Pascal; Arndt, Anton] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Stockholm, Sweden; [Bjerkefors, Anna] Karolinska Inst, Dept Neurosci, Stockholm, Sweden; [Arndt, Anton] Karolinska Inst, Dept Clin Sci Intervent & Technol, Stockholm, Sweden; [Bjerkefors, Anna] Swedish Sch Sport & Hlth Sci, Stockholm, Sweden; [Bjerkefors, Anna] Karolinska Inst, Dept Neurosci, Stockholm, Sweden								24							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000439911900012	13	Article; Article		
J	Hsieh, ChengTu; Knudson, Duane								Important learning factors in high- and low-achieving students in undergraduate biomechanics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	3			361	370		10.1080/14763141.2017.1347194			2018	2018	The purpose of the present study was to document crucial factors associated with students' learning of biomechanical concepts, particularly between high- and-low achieving students. Students (N=113) from three introductory biomechanics classes at two public universities volunteered for the study. Two measures of students' learning were obtained, final course grade and improvement on the Biomechanics Concept Inventory version 3 administered before and after the course. Participants also completed a 15-item questionnaire documenting student learning characteristics, effort, and confidence. Partial correlations controlling for all other variables in the study, confirmed previous studies that students' grade point average (p<0.01), interest in biomechanics, (p<0.05), and physics credits passed (p<0.05) are factors uniquely associated with learning biomechanics concepts. Students' confidence when encountering difficult biomechanics concepts was also significantly (p<0.05) associated with final grade. There were significant differences between top 15% and bottom 15% achievers on these variables (p<0.05), as well as on readings completed, work to pay for college per week, and learning epistemology. Consequently, instructors should consider strategies to promote students' interest in biomechanics and confidence in solving relevant professional problems in order to improve learning for both low- and high-ability students.		[Hsieh, ChengTu] Calif State Univ Chico, Coll Commun & Educ, Dept Kinesiol, Chico, CA 95929 USA; [Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Coll Educ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX USA; [Hsieh, ChengTu] Calif State Univ Chico, Coll Commun & Educ, Dept Kinesiol, Chico, CA 95929 USA								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000439911900008	35	Article; Article		
J	Plautard, Mathieu; Guilhem, Gael; Fohanno, Vincent; Nordez, Antoine; Cornu, Christophe; Guevel, Arnaud								Comparison of two methodological approaches for the mechanical analysis of single-joint isoinertial movement using a customised isokinetic dynamometer								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	3			287	302		10.1080/14763141.2016.1269187			2018	2018	Compared to isokinetic and isometric tests, isoinertial movements have been poorly used to assess single-joint performance. Two calculation procedures were developed to estimate mechanical performance during single-joint isoinertial movements performed on a customised isokinetic dynamometer. The results were also compared to appreciate the effects of measurement systems and calculation procedures. Five participants performed maximal knee extensions at four levels of resistance (30, 50, 70 and 90% of the one-repetition maximum, 1-RM). Joint angular velocity and torque were assessed from customised isokinetic dynamometer measures (method A) and from weight stack kinematic (method B). Bland-Altman plots and mean percent differences (M-diff) were used to assess the level of agreement for mean and peak angular velocity and torque. A Passing-Bablok regression was performed to compare the angular velocity-angle and torque-angle relationships computed from the two analysis methods. The results showed a high level of agreement for all mechanical parameters (M-diff<6% for all parameters). No statistically significant differences were observed between methods A and B in terms of angular velocity-angle and torque-angle relationships except at 30% of 1-RM for the torque-angle relationship. Both methodologies provide comparable values of angular velocity and torque, offering alternative approaches to assess neuromuscular function from single-joint isoinertial movements.		[Plautard, Mathieu; Nordez, Antoine; Cornu, Christophe; Guevel, Arnaud] Univ Nantes, Performance Lab, Fac Sport Sci, Movement,Interact, Nantes, France; [Guilhem, Gael] French Natl Inst Sport, Res Dept, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, Paris, France; [Fohanno, Vincent] Qualisys AB, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Guevel, Arnaud] Univ Nantes, Performance Lab, Interact, Movement, Nantes, France								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000439911900002	18	Article; Article		
J	Grigg, Josephine; Haakonssen, Eric; Rathbone, Evelyne; Orr, Robin; Keogh, Justin W. L.								The validity and intra-tester reliability of markerless motion capture to analyse kinematics of the BMX Supercross gate start								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	3			383	401		10.1080/14763141.2017.1353129			2018	2018	The aim of this study was to quantify the validity and intra-tester reliability of a novel method of kinematic measurement. The measurement target was the joint angles of an athlete performing a BMX Supercross (SX) gate start action through the first 1.2 s of movement in situ on a BMX SX ramp using a standard gate start procedure. The method employed GoPro (R) Hero 4 Silver (GoPro Inc., USA) cameras capturing data at 120 fps 720 p on a 'normal' lens setting. Kinovea 0.8.15 (Kinovea.org, France) was used for analysis. Tracking data was exported and angles computed in Matlab (Mathworks (R), USA). The gold standard 3D method for joint angle measurement could not safely be employed in this environment, so a rigid angle was used. Validity was measured to be within 2 degrees. Intra-tester reliability was measured by the same tester performing the analysis twice with an average of 55 days between analyses. Intra-tester reliability was high, with an absolute error <6 degrees and <9 frames (0.075 s) across all angles and time points for key positions, respectively. The methodology is valid within 2 degrees and reliable within 6 degrees for the calculation of joint angles in the first similar to 1.25 s.		[Grigg, Josephine; Rathbone, Evelyne; Orr, Robin; Keogh, Justin W. L.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Haakonssen, Eric] Australian Inst Sport, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Haakonssen, Eric] Cycling Australia, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Haakonssen, Eric] BMX Australia High Performance Unit, Gold Coast, Australia; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Fac Sci Hlth Educ & Engn, Cluster Hlth Improvement, Sunshine Coast, Australia; [Grigg, Josephine] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia								25							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000439911900010	40	Article; Article		
J	Fleisig, Glenn S.; Diffendaffer, Alek Z.; Ivey, Brett; Aune, Kyle T.								Do baseball pitchers improve mechanics after biomechanical evaluations?								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	3			314	321		10.1080/14763141.2017.1340508			2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to determine how often flaws in pitching mechanics identified from biomechanical analysis are corrected. The biomechanics of 46 baseball pitchers were evaluated twice, with an average of 12 months (range 2-48 months) between evaluations. Pitchers were healthy at the time of both evaluations, competing at the high school, college, minor league or Major League level. After warming up, each participant pitched 10 full-effort fastballs. Automated three-dimensional motion analysis was used to compute eight kinematic parameters which were compared with a database of elite professional pitchers. Flaws-defined as deviations from the elite range-were explained to each participant or coach after his initial evaluation. Data from the second evaluation revealed that 44% of all flaws had been corrected. Flaws at the instant of foot contact (stride length, front foot position, shoulder external rotation, shoulder abduction, elbow flexion) or slightly after foot contact (time between pelvis rotation and upper trunk rotation) seemed to be corrected more often than flaws near the time of ball release (knee extension and shoulder abduction). Future research may determine which level athletes or which training methods are most effective for correcting flaws.		[Fleisig, Glenn S.; Diffendaffer, Alek Z.; Ivey, Brett; Aune, Kyle T.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA; [Fleisig, Glenn S.] Amer Sports Med Inst, Birmingham, AL 35205 USA								38							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000439911900004	27	Article; Article		
J	Ainsworth, Barbara E.; Watson, Kathleen B.; Ridley, Kate; Pfeiffer, Karin A.; Herrmann, Stephen D.; Crouter, Scott E.; McMurray, Robert G.; Butte, Nancy F.; Bassett, David R.; Trost, Stewart G., Jr.; Berrigan, David; Fulton, Janet E.								Utility of the Youth Compendium of Physical Activities								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			273	281		10.1080/02701367.2018.1487754			2018	2018	Purpose: The purposes of this article are to: (a) describe the rationale and development of the Youth Compendium of Physical Activities (Youth Compendium); and (b) discuss the utility of the Youth Compendium for audiences in research, education, community, health care, public health, and the private sector. Methods: The Youth Compendium provides a list of 196 physical activities (PA) categorized by activity types, specific activities, and metabolic costs (youth metabolic equivalents of task [METy]) as measured by indirect calorimetry. The utility of the Youth Compendium was assessed by describing ways in which it can be used by a variety of audiences. Results: Researchers can use METy values to estimate PA levels and determine changes in PA in intervention studies. Educators can ask students to complete PA records to determine time spent in physical activities and to identify health-enhancing activities for classroom PA breaks. Community leaders, parents, and health care professionals can identify activity types that promote healthful behaviors. Public health agencies can use the METy values for surveillance and as a resource to inform progress toward meeting national physical activity guidelines. Applications for the private sector include the use of METy in PA trackers and other applications. Conclusion: The National Collaborative on Childhood Obesity Research Web site presents the Youth Compendium and related materials to facilitate measurement of the energy cost of nearly 200 physical activities in children and youth. The Youth Compendium provides a way to standardize energy costs in children and youth and has application for a wide variety of audiences.		[Ainsworth, Barbara E.] Arizona State Univ, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA; [Watson, Kathleen B.; Fulton, Janet E.] Ctr Dis Control & Prevent, Atlanta, GA USA; [Ridley, Kate] Flinders Univ S Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Pfeiffer, Karin A.] Michigan State Univ, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Herrmann, Stephen D.] Sanford Hlth, Sioux Falls, SD USA; [Crouter, Scott E.; Bassett, David R.] Univ Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [McMurray, Robert G.] Univ N Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Butte, Nancy F.] Baylor Coll Med, Houston, TX 77030 USA; [Trost, Stewart G., Jr.] Queensland Univ Technol, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Berrigan, David] NIH, Bldg 10, Bethesda, MD 20892 USA; [Ainsworth, Barbara E.] Arizona State Univ, Coll Hlth Solut, 550 N 3rd St, Phoenix, AZ 85004 USA								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800001	39	Article; Article		
J	Lesiakowski, Piotr; Lubinski, Wojciech; Zwierko, Teresa								Evoked potentials in diagnosis of visual dysfunction in amateur boxers								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			449	459		10.1080/00913847.2018.1496763			2018	2018	Objective: Injuries with varying degrees of temporary or permanent visual dysfunction are common in boxing. This study presents clinical diagnostic information regarding the functional integrity of the visual system in elite amateur boxers. The objective of this study was to assess the presence of normal or abnormal pattern visual evoked potentials (VEP). VEP in boxers were analyzed in relation to the nonathletic group and years of boxing activity. Methods: Clinical examination involved 31 boxers (21 male and 10 female) and 31 controls homogeneous in terms of age and gender. Pattern-reversal VEP elicited by checkerboard stimuli with large (LC) and small checks (SC) under monocular condition were applied. The latency and amplitude of N75, P100 and N135 components of the VEP waveform were analyzed. Absolute values and interocular differences of P100 latency and N75-P100 amplitude were used in determining VEP abnormalities. Results: Individual analysis showed prolonged P100 latency in both eyes in one male boxer. Interocular P100 latency differences beyond 8 ms were observed in three male boxers. The N75-P100 amplitude of four boxers exceeded the normal range in both eyes for the LC stimulation and one boxer for the SC stimulation. Interocular N75-P100 amplitude differences beyond the normal range in two cases for both the LC and the SC stimulation were confirmed. There was a positive correlation between years of boxing activity and N75 latency in SC (R = 0.480, p < 0.05) and N75-P100 amplitude in LC (R = -0.370, p < 0.05). Conclusion: Long-term boxing training may cause impairments in neural conductivity in the visual pathway. VEP seem to be a valuable tool in the neurophysiological diagnosis of visual function in contact sports. They can be recommended as a systematical examination for boxers during training processes for the indication and reduction in the incidence of vision-threatening injuries.		[Lesiakowski, Piotr] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Szczecin, Poland; [Lubinski, Wojciech] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Ophthalmol, Szczecin, Poland; [Zwierko, Teresa] Univ Szczecin, Dept Phys Culture & Hlth Promot, Lab Kinesiol, Funct & Struct Human Res Ctr, Ul Narutowicza 17c, PL-70240 Szczecin, Poland; [Zwierko, Teresa] Univ Szczecin, Dept Phys Culture & Hlth Promot, Lab Kinesiol, Funct & Struct Human Res Ctr, Ul Narutowicza 17c, PL-70240 Szczecin, Poland								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500008	51	Article; Article		
J	Bennie, Jason A.; Wiesner, Glen H.; Vergeer, Ineke; Kolbe-Alexander, Tracy L.; De Cocker, Katrien; Alexander, Chris; Biddle, Stuart J. H.								Feasibility for the Use of a Standardized Fitness Testing Protocol Among Australian Fitness Industry Professionals								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			380	385		10.1080/02701367.2018.1486965			2018	2018	Purpose: There is currently no standardized testing protocol for assessing clients' fitness/health within the Australian fitness industry. This study examined the perceptions of the feasibility of using a standardized testing protocol among Australian fitness industry professionals. Method: In 2014, 1,206 registered fitness industry professionals (aged 17-69years) completed an online survey. Perceived feasibility for using a standardized testing protocol was assessed based on responses to 6 items. Respondents were classified as having a high level of perceived feasibility if they reported all 6 items to be definitely feasible. A multivariate logistic regression analysis, adjusting for demographic and fitness industry-related factors (e.g., qualification/years of experience), assessed the likelihood of having a high level of perceived feasibility. Results: Overall, 25.5% (95% CI [23.1%, 28.0%]) of the sample perceived the use of a standardized testing protocol as highly feasible. Items ranked most often as definitely feasible were undertaking training to use the protocol (55%) and conducting follow-up testing every 6 to 12weeks (52%). After adjustment for the effect of confounding factors, casually employed professionals (OR = 0.63; 95% CI [0.45, 0.90]) and group instructors (OR = 0.58; 95% CI [0.41, 0.82]) were less likely to perceive standardized testing protocols as highly feasible. Conclusions: Among a large sample of Australian fitness industry professionals, slightly more than a quarter perceived using a standardized testing protocol to be highly feasible. Group instructors and casual employees perceived lower feasibility. Further research should determine the barriers to implementing a standardized testing protocol across the fitness industry.		[Bennie, Jason A.; Vergeer, Ineke; Kolbe-Alexander, Tracy L.; De Cocker, Katrien; Biddle, Stuart J. H.] Univ Southern Queensland, Springfield Cent, Qld, Australia; [Wiesner, Glen H.] Victoria Univ, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [De Cocker, Katrien] Univ Ghent, Ghent, Belgium; [Alexander, Chris] Fitness Australia, Alexandria, NSW, Australia; [Bennie, Jason A.] Univ Southern Queensland, Inst Resilient Reg, Phys Act Lifestyles Res Grp USQ PALs, 37 Sinnathamby Blvd, Springfield Cent, Qld 4300, Australia								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800014	13	Article; Article		
J	Haegele, Justin A.; Yessick, Amanda; Zhu, Xihe								Females With Visual Impairments in Physical Education: Exploring the Intersection Between Disability and Gender Identities								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			298	308		10.1080/02701367.2018.1484067			2018	2018	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to use an explicitly intersectional approach to examine the embodied experiences of individuals identifying as female and as having a visual impairment in school-based physical education. Method: An interpretative phenomenological analysis (IPA) research approach was used, and 8 adult women (ages 21-30 years) with visual impairments acted as participants for this study. The primary sources of data were semistructured audiotaped telephone interviews and reflected field notes. Data were analyzed thematically using a 3-step analytical process inspired by IPA. Results: Based on the data analysis, 3 interrelated themes were constructed from the participant transcripts. The first theme, Girls don't like gym anyway: limited participation from the female perspective, described the participants' experiences with limited participation and the influence of gender and visual impairment on these limitations. The second theme, She can't do what other kids can do: teachers' expectations and unable bodies, described how the participants' unable or flawed bodies influenced their teachers' expectations of their abilities in physical education. The final theme, It was really awkward: feelings about negative peer interactions, demonstrated participants' embodied perspectives toward bullying and other negative peer interactions. Conclusions: Utilizing an IPA approach, the researchers constructed 3 themes that exposed central experiences and reflections that were informed by the participants' identified gender and disability. Through the lens of intersectionality, these themes contribute to our understanding of how multiple identities (femaleness, visual impairment) contributed to disadvantages in physical education contexts.		[Haegele, Justin A.; Yessick, Amanda; Zhu, Xihe] Old Dominion Univ, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA; [Haegele, Justin A.] Old Dominion Univ, Student Recreat Ctr 2009, Dept Human Movement Sci, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA								32							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800004	35	Article; Article		
J	Caccese, Jaclyn B.; Buckley, Thomas A.; Tierney, Ryan T.; Arbogast, Kristy B.; Rose, William C.; Glutting, Joseph J.; Kaminski, Thomas W.								Head and neck size and neck strength predict linear and rotational acceleration during purposeful soccer heading								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	4			462	476		10.1080/14763141.2017.1360385			2018	2018	There is increasing societal concern about the long-term effects of repeated impacts from soccer heading, but there is little information about ways to reduce head impact severity. The purpose of this study was to identify factors that contribute to head acceleration during soccer heading. One-hundred soccer players completed 12 controlled soccer headers. Peak linear (PLA) and rotational (PRA) accelerations were measured using a triaxial accelerometer and gyroscope. Head acceleration contributing factors were grouped into 3 categories: size (head mass, neck girth), strength (sternocleidomastoid, upper trapezius) and technique [kinematics (trunk, head-to-trunk range-of-motion), sternocleidomastoid and upper trapezius activity]. Multiple regression analyses indicated size variables explained 22.1% of the variance in PLA and 23.3% of the variance in PRA; strength variables explained 13.3% of the variance in PLA and 17.2% of the variance in PRA; technique variables did not significantly predict PLA or PRA. These findings suggest that head and neck size and neck strength predict PLA and PRA. Anthropometric and neck strength measurements should be considered when determining an athlete's readiness to begin soccer heading.		[Caccese, Jaclyn B.; Buckley, Thomas A.; Rose, William C.; Kaminski, Thomas W.] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Tierney, Ryan T.] Temple Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Arbogast, Kristy B.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Ctr Injury Res & Prevent, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Glutting, Joseph J.] Univ Delaware, Sch Educ, Newark, DE USA; [Caccese, Jaclyn B.] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, DE 19716 USA								88							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000445798400004	31	Article; Article		
J	Hotfiel, Thilo; Heiss, Rafael; Janka, Rolf; Forst, Raimund; Raithel, Martin; Lutter, Christoph; Gelse, Kolja; Pachowsky, Milena; Golditz, Tobias								Acoustic radiation force impulse tissue characterization of the anterior talofibular ligament: a promising noninvasive approach in ankle imaging								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	4			435	440		10.1080/00913847.2018.1484658			2018	2018	Objectives: The anterior talofibular ligament (ATFL) is the most frequently injured ligament during inversion strains of the ankle. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography and to determine the in vivo mechanical properties of the ATFL in healthy athletes. Methods: Sixty healthy athletes (32 female, 28 male; 28.9 +/- 2.1 years) were recruited from the medical and sports faculty. ARFI values, represented as shear wave velocities (SWVs) as well as conventional ultrasound were obtained for the ATFL in neutral ankle position. A clinical assessment was performed in which the American Orthopaedic Foot & Ankle Society (AOFAS) Ankle-Hindfoot Score and the functional ankle ability measure (FAAM) were collected. Interobserver and intraobserver reliability (repeated sessions and repeated days) were assessed using an intra class correlation coefficient (ICC) and typical error (TE) calculation in absolute (TE) and relative units as coefficient of the variation (CV). Results: SWV values of the ATFL had an average velocity of 1.79 +/- 0.20 m/s for all participants, with an average of 1.72 +/- 0.36 m/s for females and 1.85 +/- 0.31 m/s for males. The interobserver and intraobserver reliability revealed an ICC of 0.902 and 0.933 (TE of 0.67 (CV: 5.2%) and 0.52 (CV: 3.84%)), respectively. FAAM and AOFAS revealed the best possible scores. Conclusion: ARFI seems to be a valuable diagnostic modality and represents a promising imaging marker for the assessment and monitoring of ankle ligaments in the context of acute and chronic ankle instabilities; ARFI could also be used to investigate loading or sport dependent adaptions.		[Hotfiel, Thilo; Forst, Raimund] Friedrich Alexander Univ Erlangen Nuremberg, Dept Orthoped Surg, Rathsberger Str 57, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany; [Heiss, Rafael; Janka, Rolf] Univ Hosp Erlangen, Dept Radiol, Erlangen, Germany; [Raithel, Martin] Malteser Waldkrankenhaus St Marien, Dept Med Gastroenterol & Intervent Endoscopy 2, Erlangen, Germany; [Lutter, Christoph] Klinikum Bamberg, Dept Orthoped & Trauma Surg, Sportsorthoped & Sportsmed, Bamberg, Germany; [Gelse, Kolja; Pachowsky, Milena; Golditz, Tobias] Univ Hosp Erlangen, Dept Orthoped Trauma Surg, Erlangen, Germany; [Hotfiel, Thilo] Friedrich Alexander Univ Erlangen Nuremberg, Dept Orthoped Surg, Rathsberger Str 57, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany								15							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000452020500006	33	Article; Article		
J	Bellenger, Clint R.; Thomson, Rebecca L.; Davison, Kade; Robertson, Eileen Y.; Nelson, Maximillian J.; Karavirta, Laura; Buckley, Jonathan D.								Optimization of Maximal Rate of Heart Rate Increase Assessment in Runners								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	3			322	331		10.1080/02701367.2018.1475722			2018	2018	Purpose: Correlations between fatigue-induced changes in exercise performance and maximal rate of heart rate (HR) increase (rHRI) may be affected by exercise intensity during assessment. This study evaluated the sensitivity of rHRI for tracking performance when assessed at varying exercise intensities. Method: Performance (time to complete a 5-km treadmill time-trial [5TTT]) and rHRI were assessed in 15 male runners following 1week of light training, 2weeks of heavy training (HT), and a 10-day taper (T). Maximal rate of HR increase (measured in bpms(-1)) was the first derivative maximum of a sigmoidal curve fit to HR data recorded during 5min of running at 8kmh(-1) (rHRI(8kmh)(-1)), and during subsequent transition to 13kmh(-1) (rHRI(8-13kmh)(-1)) for a further 5min. Results: Time to complete a 5-km treadmill time-trial was likely slower following HT (effect size +/- 90% confidence interval= 0.16 +/- 0.06), and almost certainly faster following T (-0.34 +/- 0.08). Maximal rate of HR increase during 5min of running at 8kmh(-1) and rHRI(8-13kmh)(-1) were unchanged following HT and likely increased following T (0.77 +/- 0.45 and 0.66 +/- 0.62, respectively). A moderate within-individual correlation was found between 5TTT and rHRI(8kmh)(-1) (r value +/- 90% confidence interval= -.35 +/- .32). However, in a subgroup of athletes (n= 7) who were almost certainly slower to complete the 5TTT (4.22 +/- 0.88), larger correlations were found between the 5TTT and rHRI(8kmh)(-1) (r= -.84 +/- .22) and rHRI(8-13kmh)(-1) (r= -.52 +/- .41). Steady-state HR during rHRI assessment in this group was very likely greater than in the faster subgroup ( 1.34 +/- 0.86). Conclusion(s): The 5TTT performance was tracked by both rHRI(8kmh)(-1) and rHRI(8-13kmh)(-1). Correlations between rHRI and performance were stronger in a subgroup of athletes who exhibited a slower 5TTT. Individualized workloads during rHRI assessment may be required to account for varying levels of physical conditioning.		[Bellenger, Clint R.; Thomson, Rebecca L.; Davison, Kade; Nelson, Maximillian J.; Buckley, Jonathan D.] Univ South Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Bellenger, Clint R.; Robertson, Eileen Y.] South Australian Sports Inst, Kidman Pk, SA, Australia; [Karavirta, Laura] Polar Electro Oy, Kempele, Finland; [Bellenger, Clint R.] Univ South Australia, Alliance Res Exercise Nutr & Act, 108 North Terrace, Adelaide, SA 5001, Australia								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000442649800006	28	Article; Article		
J	Fedewa, Alicia L.; Fettrow, Elizabeth; Erwin, Heather; Ahn, Soyeon; Farook, Minnah								Academic-Based and Aerobic-Only Movement Breaks: Are There Differential Effects on Physical Activity and Achievement?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			153	163		10.1080/02701367.2018.1431602			2018	2018	Purpose: This study investigated the academic achievement and physical activity differences between types of activity breaks implemented in elementary school classrooms. This study evaluated whether there was a difference between the impact of purely aerobic-based movement breaks and the impact of academic-based breaks on children's academic achievement outcomes. Method: Participants included 460 children in 3rd grade through 5th grade at 4 elementary schools. There were 176 children in the schools that engaged in academic-based breaks and 284 in the schools that engaged in aerobic-only breaks. Schools were randomly assigned at the school level to implement either aerobic movement breaks with academic content infused within the breaks (academic-based breaks) or aerobic-only movement breaks without the addition of academic material (aerobic-only breaks) for approximately 10min of activity per day. Math and reading achievement as well as children's step counts were measured before and after the intervention. A mixed-effects (multilevel-growth) model, in which the repeated measures of individuals nested within a classroom are analyzed, was used to answer all posited research questions. Results: Small to moderate effect sizes (ES) indicating gains in reading achievement (ES=.13) and steps (ES=.33) were found for classrooms that used aerobic-only movement breaks compared with those that used academic-based breaks. Conclusions: The type of movement breaks that are implemented in classrooms may have differential outcomes for children's achievement and activity levels. Results from the present study indicate that children who were given aerobic-only movement breaks had slightly larger gains in reading achievement and physical activity levels than children who were given academic-based breaks.		[Fedewa, Alicia L.; Fettrow, Elizabeth; Erwin, Heather; Farook, Minnah] Univ Kentucky, 115 Seaton Bldg, Lexington, KY 40506 USA; [Ahn, Soyeon] Univ Miami, Coral Gables, FL 33124 USA; [Erwin, Heather] Univ Kentucky, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Promot, 115 Seaton Bldg, Lexington, KY 40506 USA								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600004	31	Article; Article		
J	Ludyga, Sebastian; Gerber, Markus; Brand, Serge; Puhse, Uwe; Colledge, Flora								Effects of Aerobic Exercise on Cognitive Performance Among Young Adults in a Higher Education Setting								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			164	172		10.1080/02701367.2018.1438575			2018	2018	Purpose: Acute benefits of aerobic exercise on executive functioning have been reported frequently under laboratory conditions. However, to date, a beneficial effect on long-term memory has been less well supported and no data are available regarding nonlaboratory conditions in young adults. The aim of the current study was to investigate acute effects of aerobic exercise on cognitive functioning in a university classroom setting. Method: Using a cross-over design, 51 participants performed a bout of moderately intense running (RUN) and read an article while seated (CON). Afterwards, they completed free-recall tests, followed by a Flanker task and an n-back task. Results: Participants in the RUN condition compared with those in the CON condition showed shorter reaction time on the inhibition task, F(1, 50)=5.59, p=.022, (2)=.101, and recalled more words in the immediate- and delayed-recall tests, F(1, 50)=8.40, p=.006, (2)=.144. Conclusion: The present findings suggest that a moderately intense bout of aerobic exercise benefits verbal short-term and long-term memory as well as inhibitory control among students in a classroom setting.		[Ludyga, Sebastian; Gerber, Markus; Brand, Serge; Puhse, Uwe; Colledge, Flora] Univ Basel, Basel, Switzerland; [Ludyga, Sebastian] Univ Basel, Dept Sport Exercise & Hlth, Sport Sci Sect, Birsstr 320 B, CH-4052 Basel, Switzerland								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600005	48	Article; Article		
J	Thompson, Terry L.; Nguyen, Thomas X.; Karodeh, Cina R.								Twelve cases of exertional rhabdomyolysis in college football players from the same institution over a 23-year span: a descriptive study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			331	334		10.1080/00913847.2018.1481717			2018	2018	Background: Rhabdomyolysis is a syndrome characterized by muscle necrosis that leads to release of the intracellular contents of muscle cells into the systemic circulation. Rhabdomyolysis due to overexertion is an uncommon but well-known severe complication of strenuous activity. Exertional rhabdomyolysis (ER) is typically described in weight lifters and military recruits undergoing basic training. Few cases have been reported in football players without known predisposing risk factors. We report our experience with this condition in college football players in a single institution. Materials and methods: College football players hospitalized for heat illness complicated by rhabdomyolysis were identified over a 23-year period. Clinical and laboratory findings were collected. Clinical course was recorded. Results: Twelve patients were identified. All were Black males. One had sickle cell trait. BMI averaged 33 kg/m(2) (range 23-45 kg/m(2)). Peak creatine phosphokinase (CPK) averaged 14,850 IU/L (range 1,021-109,616 IU/L). Serum creatinine averaged 1.9 mg/dl (range 1.2-3.1 mg/dl). Ten of twelve cases occurred in August. All responded to intravenous hydration with normalization of CPK and renal function. All returned to football. Conclusions: ER is a serious complication of strenuous physical activity that can threaten renal function. ER tends to occur in August, which coincides with the start of football practice when athletes are more likely to be detrained. The condition can occur in Black athletes in the absence of sickle cell trait. ER carries a good prognosis when recognized early and treated adequately.		[Thompson, Terry L.] Howard Univ, Coll Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, Washington, DC USA; [Nguyen, Thomas X.] Howard Univ Hosp, Washington, DC 20060 USA; [Karodeh, Cina R.] Howard Univ, Coll Med, Washington, DC USA; [Thompson, Terry L.] Howard Univ Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, 2041 Georgia Ave NW, Washington, DC 20060 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700011	40	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Yi; Kim, Minkil; Wang, Jerred Junqi; Pitts, Brenda								Reversing the tide of sport globalization from west to east? Examining consumer demand for table tennis clubs in the US								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	2			217	235		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2017-0059			2018	2018	Purpose By using table tennis as an example and conducting an in-depth investigation into the impact of market demand factors on membership consumption of table tennis club members in the USA, the purpose of this paper is to illustrate the opportunities and marketing efforts needed for Asian sports to survive and thrive in North America, in which consumer demand factors assessing core program features of table tennis clubs were found to be very influential of cognitive, affective, and behavioral consumptions of table tennis club members. Design/methodology/approach Through conducting a review of literature, observations of club operations, and interviews of club administrators and club members representing various table tennis clubs, a preliminary questionnaire was formulated for this study. The initial questionnaire was submitted to a panel of five experts, for a test of content validity. By incorporating their suggestions, editing was made to improve a number of the items in the questionnaire. Data collection took place in two national table tennis tournaments, two local tournaments, and six table tennis clubs. Procedures in SPSS 19.0 (SPSS, 2009) and Mplus 5.21 were carried out for data analyses. Findings The findings of this study are that market demand factors would be significantly related to consumer perceived benefits and perceived value, and in turn related to consumer satisfaction of table tennis club membership. The market demand factors had a positive impact on perceived value and benefits confirmed the theoretical framework and previous research findings, which also made a practical sense that a table tennis club needs to offer product features and meet expectations of its current and potential members in order to enhance program value and benefits perceived by its members. Originality/value The past two decades have marked the speediest rise of a globalized sport production and consumption trend. In an era of globalized sport marketplace, sports have become a business commodity to meet the needs of commerce. For an Asian sport to penetrate into the North American marketplace as table tennis has done, it would be wise to develop regional network, strategies, product, and promotions. It is expected that table tennis as a popular Asian sport will continue being spread to other parts of the world; thus, the findings of this study have potential relevance to promoting table tennis globally.		[Zhang, Yi] Shanghai Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Kim, Minkil] Troy Univ, Sch Hospitality Sport & Tourism Management, Atlanta, GA USA; [Wang, Jerred Junqi] Univ West Georgia, Dept Sport Management Wellness & Phys Educ, Carrollton, GA USA; [Pitts, Brenda] Georgia State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Zhang, Yi] Shanghai Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Shanghai, Peoples R China								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432676300007	75	Article; Article		
J	Florea, Dorian-Laurentiu; Barbu, Catalin Mihail; Barbu, Mihai Constantin Razvan								A model of fans' reaction to resurrected brands of sport organizations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	2			127	146		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-0073			2018	2018	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to reveal the conditions that facilitate or hinder a favorable reaction of fans to the resurrection of sport club brands. Design/methodology/approach The proposed model was empirically tested by applying partial least squares-SEM to a sample of 462 fans of five Romanian football and handball clubs that were resurrected in the last five years. Findings The study showed that a positive relationship between the new and the old club owners, the keeping of the brand name, and the involvement of the club's historic figures are favorable conditions for a successful resurrection. The faded brands that enjoy salient heritage and numerous loyal fans are more likely to be successfully resurrected. Moreover, when the resurrection is undertaken immediately after the old club's bankruptcy, fans tend to alienate from the brand, as they consider the new club to be trying to counterfeit the meaning of the faded brand. Research limitations/implications The cross-sectional nature of the study and the narrow scope of the empirical data are the major limitations of the study. Practical implications Based on the empirical findings, the authors made recommendations to sport entrepreneurs who consider reviving faded clubs, and highlighted the difficulties of the resurrection process. Originality/value To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first study of brand resurrection in the sports industry.		[Florea, Dorian-Laurentiu] Univ Anahuac Mexico Sur, Dept Econ & Business, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; [Barbu, Catalin Mihail] Univ Craiova, Dept Management Mkt & Business Adm, Craiova, Romania; [Barbu, Mihai Constantin Razvan] Univ Craiova, Dept Theory & Method Motor Act, Craiova, Romania; [Florea, Dorian-Laurentiu] Univ Anahuac Mexico Sur, Dept Econ & Business, Mexico City, DF, Mexico								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432676300002	49	Article; Article		
J	Ribeiro, Tiago Miguel; Correia, Abel; Biscaia, Rui; Figueiredo, Carlos								Examining service quality and social impact perceptions of the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	2			160	177		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-0080			2018	2018	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine the effects of service quality on perceived positive and negative social impact of the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games. Design/methodology/approach A field study was conducted in Rio de Janeiro, and data were collected from residents who attended the Olympic Games through a self-administered questionnaire (n=519). The questionnaire included measures of perceived service quality, positive and negative social impact. A confirmatory factor analysis analysed the psychometric properties of the constructs, and a subsequent structural equation model examined the relationships between service quality and social impact perceptions. Findings The results show good psychometric properties of a multidimensional construct of service quality composed of the technical, functional, aesthetic, access, accommodation and complementary events dimensions. The service quality construct was significantly related to both positive social impact (city image and community pride enhancement, social experiences and public infrastructures) and negative social impact (social conflicts and costs) perceptions. Originality/value This study contributes to the literature by examining the role of service quality in sport mega-events and testing on different facets of social impact. The findings highlight that social atmosphere and new experiences in the Olympic Games are critical when planning these events.		[Ribeiro, Tiago Miguel; Figueiredo, Carlos] Ctr Univ Augusto Motta, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Correia, Abel] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, Sports Mkt, Lisbon, Portugal; [Biscaia, Rui] Coventry Univ, Business Sch, Sch Mkt & Management, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Ribeiro, Tiago Miguel] Ctr Univ Augusto Motta, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432676300004	91	Article; Article		
J	Puente-Diaz, Rogelio								Using international sport events as part of a brand construction strategy: The case of the destination brand Mexico								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	2			147	159		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-0088			2018	2018	Purpose The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, the author examines how the destination brand Mexico is using international sporting events as part of its branding strategy to deal with the challenges faced by destinations and to overcome some of its weaknesses. Second, the author assesses the positive and negative consequences of such strategy. The investigation tries to fill a gap in terms of understanding and assessing opportunities and challenges experienced by the sport industry in emerging markets. Design/methodology/approach The author used a case study research strategy, relying on documentation, archival records, and personal interviews with experts as sources of evidence. Given that most research efforts have focused on developed countries, this research approach was exploratory and descriptive. Findings The thematic analysis revealed the presence of five major themes related to the process of hosting and using Formula One (F1), National Football League (NFL), Major League Baseball (MLB), and National Basketball Association (NBA) games as part of a brand strategy. These five major themes were labeled: brand strategy challenges and opportunities, balancing short- and long-term goals and benefits, tension between stakeholders from different destinations, social issues, and areas of improvement. Originality/value The findings shed light on the challenges and opportunities that hosting international sport events bring to a destination brand with an emerging economy such as Mexico. The opportunity to host these types of events comes from the expansion strategies of well-known sport brands such as F1, NFL, MLB, and NBA.		[Puente-Diaz, Rogelio] Univ Anahuac Mexico Norte, Huixquilucan, Mexico; [Puente-Diaz, Rogelio] Univ Anahuac Mexico Norte, Huixquilucan, Mexico								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432676300003	36	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Yan; Zhang, James J.; Pifer, Nathan David; Kim, Minkil								Factors affecting the regional strategies for developing and advancing the Chinese sport industry								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				19	2			178	193		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-0082			2018	2018	Purpose The purpose of this paper is to examine the key factors that affect the formulation of regional strategies for developing and advancing the sport industry in China. Design/methodology/approach Guided by the comparative advantage theory, qualitative and quantitative research procedures were carried out to analyze the variables that were deemed necessary for the development of regional advantages. Findings The findings of this study indicated the importance and relevance of understanding these comparative advantage factors when developing regional strategies for sport development in China or other countries with a developing economy. Research limitations/implications This study was largely exploratory in nature, meaning that future confirmatory studies are necessary in order to solidify the results and to encompass the wide-ranging diversity of the total sport industry. Practical implications The study provided practical implications for other countries to address the needs to discern among varying sectors of the sport industry and prioritize factors that are specific to regions, communities, and local environments in the strategic planning process. Originality/value The findings of this study highlighted the importance and relevance of four comparative advantage factors and the varying sectors of the sport industry variables in the region.		[Wang, Yan] China Three Gorges Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Yichang, Peoples R China; [Zhang, James J.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Pifer, Nathan David] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Kim, Minkil] Troy Univ, Sch Hospitality Sport & Tourism Management, Atlanta, GA USA; [Wang, Yan] China Three Gorges Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Yichang, Peoples R China								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000432676300005	60	Article; Article		
J	Morville, Thomas; Rosenkilde, Mads; Mattsson, Nick; Dela, Flemming; Helge, Jorn W.; Rasmusen, Hanne K.								2706 km cycling in 2 weeks: effects on cardiac function in 6 elderly male athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			263	268		10.1080/00913847.2018.1477403			2018	2018	Objectives: Physiological effects of exercise on trained and untrained individuals have been studied extensively. Typically, young or middle-aged individuals are examined before and after short periods of vigorous exertion. Methods: Westudied 6 elderlymale athletes (61 +/- 8 years (mean +/- SD); baseline (V)over dotO(2)max 48 +/- 5ml.kg(-1).min(-1)) with focus on cardiac function and biomarkers following 14 consecutive days of moderate intensity exercise. Cardiac dimensions, function, biomarkers, and other measures of cardiovascular health were examined at baseline and 2 and 28 h after the last day of cycling a total of 2706 km. Results: Data collected after the cessation of exercise on the 14th day revealed significant increases in average size of the left atrium (3.5 +/- 0.4 to 4.0 +/- 0.3 cm; p = 0.02) and left ventricular end systolic volume (47 +/- 2 to 52 +/- 5 ml; p = 0.004), with no other significant changes in cardiac size or function. Small, transient increases in cardiac biomarkers (troponin T, creatine kinase myocardial band, and N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide) (p < 0.01) were observed 2 h after completion of cycling but no changes in systolic (including strain-analyses) or diastolic cardiac function were observed at rest. (V)over dotO(2)max was significantly lower at the 28 h time point than at baseline (p < 0.02). Plasma concentrations of total-(p < 0.01) and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (p < 0.01) were markedly lower after exercise. Systolic blood pressure was unchanged, but diastolic pressure was significantly lower after exercise than at baseline. Conclusions: The results suggest that repeated moderate intensity exercise in elderly men was associated with a transient increase in cardiac biomarkers while cardiac function remained unaltered. A favorable reduction in blood lipids and diastolic blood pressure were seen for > 28 h after the end of activity. An unexplained symptomless severe plasma hyponatremia developed in 3 of 6 subjects 28 h after the end of activity.		[Morville, Thomas; Rosenkilde, Mads; Dela, Flemming; Helge, Jorn W.] Univ Copenhagen, Ctr Hlth Aging, Dept Biomed Sci, Xlab, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Mattsson, Nick; Rasmusen, Hanne K.] Univ Copenhagen, Bispebjerg & Frederiksberg Hosp, Dept Cardiol, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Dela, Flemming] Univ Copenhagen, Bispebjerg & Frederiksberg Hosp, Dept Geriatr, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Dela, Flemming] Univ Copenhagen, Ctr Hlth Aging, Dept Biomed Sci, Xlab, Copenhagen, Denmark								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700002	31	Article; Article		
J	Cruz-Ferreira, Antonio Miguel; Cruz-Ferreira, Eduardo Miguel; Silva, Joao Diogo; Ferreira, Ricardo Maia; Santiago, Luiz Miguel; Taborda-Barata, Luis								Epidemiology of injuries in Portuguese senior male rugby union sevens: a cohort prospective study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	2			255	261		10.1080/00913847.2018.1441581			2018	2018	Objectives: To assess the incidence, type and location of injuries sustained during the Portuguese rugby union sevens circuit. To investigate the influence of players' training loads on injury risk. Methods: A prospective cohort study recording time-loss injuries was conducted with all teams competing in the Portuguese national rugby sevens circuit (eight from the top-tier and seven from the second-tier). Main outcome measures included: incidence rate, anatomical location, type, injury incident and severity. Data were also collected regarding players' training loads. Fisher's exact test was used to estimate the relative risk of suffering an injury during the sevens season and training sevens during the fifteens season. Results: A total of 27 injuries were recorded corresponding to an incidence rate of 133.9 injuries per 1000 player match-hours. The average severity was 22.22 days. Contact events preceded 81.5% of injuries. Most injuries occurred in the lower limb (66.7%) and were joint/ligament or muscle/tendon injuries (85.1%). The association between injuries and lower volume of training during the sevens season was identified for the second-tier (p = 0.021). For the same level, an inverse relation between training hours and injury severity was also found (p = 0.008). Top-tier players training sevens and fifteens simultaneously during the year presented a significant increase of injury risk (relative risk = 3.2; p = 0.011). Conclusions: Injury incidence in our study is similar to that reported for international sevens, although severity is lower. An association between training loads and the occurrence of injuries was found for both tiers, although with differential results, thus reinforcing the need to customize players' preparation. Further studies at non-elite competitions are needed to gather significant data to accurately formulate future injury prevention protocols or recommend modifications to game laws or competition formats, aiming at players' welfare.		[Cruz-Ferreira, Antonio Miguel] UCSP Mealhada, Mealhada, Portugal; [Cruz-Ferreira, Antonio Miguel; Cruz-Ferreira, Eduardo Miguel; Taborda-Barata, Luis] Univ Beira Interior, Fac Ciencias Saude, Covilha, Portugal; [Cruz-Ferreira, Eduardo Miguel] ULS Guarda, Serv Ortopedia, Hosp Sousa Martins, Guarda, Portugal; [Silva, Joao Diogo; Santiago, Luiz Miguel] Univ Coimbra, Fac Med, Coimbra, Portugal; [Ferreira, Ricardo Maia] Inst Politecn Maia, Dept Ciencias Educ Fis & Desporto, Porto, Portugal; [Santiago, Luiz Miguel] USF Topazio, Coimbra, Portugal; [Taborda-Barata, Luis] Ctr Hosp Cova da Beira, Serv Imunoalergol, Covilha, Portugal; [Cruz-Ferreira, Antonio Miguel] Rua Principal Paredes S-N, P-3020285 Coimbra, Portugal								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432562800014	25	Article; Article		
J	Cooper, Kenneth H.								The History of Aerobics (50 Years and Still Counting)								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			129	134		10.1080/02701367.2018.1452469			2018	2018	Looking back over the 50years since Aerobics was published, I could never have expected for there to have been a major change in physicians' attitudes toward the value of exercise in the practice of medicine. In my lifetime, I never thought I would see a stress test be considered a mandatory component of a complete examination, inactivity classified as importantly as high blood pressure and high cholesterol, and cigarette smoking considered a coronary risk factor. I have tried in this Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport (RQES) Lecture presentation to document how this slow but gradual transition took place due to my work and the work of many of my colleagues in this field, along with the important work of The Cooper Institute. In June 1970, I chartered the institute 6months before I saw my first patient at the Cooper Clinic, but now with the Cooper Center Longitudinal Study being the largest database in the world comparing measured levels of fitness, instead of relying only on questionnaires and correlating fitness and health in our more than 700 published peer-review articles, we have proven and can safely say that exercise is medicine. In greater detail, I want this lecture to present what we and others have done in this scientific endeavor, and even the harshest critics are now saying that these results are too impressive to be ignored.		[Cooper, Kenneth H.] Cooper Aerob, 12200 Preston Rd, Dallas, TX 75230 USA; [Cooper, Kenneth H.] Cooper Aerob, 12200 Preston Rd, Dallas, TX 75230 USA								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600001	6	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Zhiwei; Hou, Yunfei; Lin, Jianhao; Wang, Kai; Liu, Qiang								Patients' views toward knee osteoarthritis exercise therapy and factors influencing adherence - a survey in China								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	2			221	227		10.1080/00913847.2018.1425595			2018	2018	Objectives: To understand the views toward exercise therapy for knee osteoarthritis (KOA) in China and to analyze factors affecting treatment adherence. Methods: A survey-based study, which included multiple choice and open-ended questions on knee OA exercise therapy was conducted in a Chinese population. The content included the respondents' attitudes and beliefs, willingness to receive treatment, and reasons why they could or could not adhere to the treatment. We used Chi-squared tests to compare cognitive differences between the patients and non-patient groups. Results: A total of 1,069 people responded to the questionnaire, and the response rate was 81.8%. A total of 93.6% of the patients thought that they could adhere to the exercise treatment if they received professional advice and prescriptions. The following questionnaire items achieved consensus: 'Increasing the strength of the muscles around the knee stops the knee pain from getting worse,' It is the person's own responsibility to continue doing their exercise program,' How helpful the exercise program will be determines how well a person sticks to it,' Health professionals should educate patients with knee pain about how to change their lifestyle for the better,' and 'Exercise for knee pain is most helpful when it is designed for each person, to suit their own particular needs.' Patient adherence was affected by multiple factors, and some negative factors included 'forgetfulness,"getting joint symptoms improved after therapy,' professional guidance, subsequent monitoring and supervision,"willing to enhance overall health and quality of life,' having no time,' occupational factors,' 'considering that the pain would worsen while/after exercise,' and 'family factors.' Conclusions: A general Chinese population accepted exercise therapy for treating KOA in our survey. Education is necessary because patients were uncertain and had misunderstandings regarding the potential benefits of exercise therapy. Some factors related to treatment adherence were also analyzed.		[Lin, Jianhao] Peking Univ, Peoples Hosp, Arthrit Clin, 11 Xizhimen South St, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Lin, Jianhao] Peking Univ, Peoples Hosp, Res Ctr, 11 Xizhimen South St, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Lin, Jianhao] Peking Univ, Peoples Hosp, Arthrit Clin, 11 Xizhimen South St, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Lin, Jianhao] Peking Univ, Peoples Hosp, Res Ctr, 11 Xizhimen South St, Beijing, Peoples R China								21							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432562800009	33	Article; Article		
J	Taunton, Sally A.; Mulvey, Kelly Lynn; Brian, Ali S.								Who SKIPS? Using Temperament to Explain Differential Outcomes of a Motor Competence Intervention for Preschoolers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			200	209		10.1080/02701367.2018.1444256			2018	2018	Purpose: Although motor skill interventions often improve fundamental motor skills (FMS) during preschool, the extent of individual children's success in development of FMS still varies among children receiving the same intervention. Temperament is multifaceted and includes negative affect (high levels of frustration or anger), effortful control (focus, self-regulation, and concentration), and surgency (energy and activity level). Temperament often influences cognitive, social, and behavioral outcomes and may be a significant factor in the development of FMS. The purpose of this study was to examine the influence of temperament on children's improvement in FMS within a gross motor intervention. Method: Participants (N=80; M-age=55.36months, SD=6.99 months) completed the Test of Gross Motor Development-Second Edition prior to and after intervention. Teachers completed the Child Behavior Questionnaire-Very Short Form to examine each child's temperament. To account for possibility of a Type 1 error, we conducted 6 separate 2 (temperament variable: high, low) x 2 (treatment: intervention, control) analyses of covariance and examined posttest scores for locomotor and object-control skills with pretest scores as covariates among participants with high and low surgency, negative affect, and effortful control. Results: Results revealed children with low levels of negative affect and surgency and high levels of effortful control demonstrated greater gains ((2)(p)=.05-.34) in both locomotor and object-control skills during motor skill intervention compared with their peers. Conclusion: Providing interventions tailored to temperamental profiles could maximize gains in FMS through intervention.		[Taunton, Sally A.; Brian, Ali S.] Univ South Carolina, 1300 Wheat St, Columbia, SC 29033 USA; [Mulvey, Kelly Lynn] North Carolina State Univ, Raleigh, NC USA; [Taunton, Sally A.] Univ South Carolina, Dept Phys Educ, 1300 Wheat St, Columbia, SC 29033 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600009	39	Article; Article		
J	Lagestad, Pal; Mehus, Ingar								The Importance of Adolescents' Participation in Organized Sport According to VO<sub>2</sub>peak: A Longitudinal Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			143	152		10.1080/02701367.2018.1448050			2018	2018	Research from several countries has documented a decline in physical activity (PA) levels and in participation in organized sport with increasing age, indicating that organized sport may be of importance to adolescents' cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF). Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine how regular participation in organized and unorganized PA affected the development of adolescents' CRF (peak oxygen consumption [VO(2)peak]), when controlled for sex interaction. Method: Data on direct measures of VO(2)peak and participation in organized PA among adolescents organized into 3 groups (participation in organized sport, participation in unorganized PA, and no weekly PA) were collected from 76 students (39 boys and 37 girls), when they were aged 14 and 19years old. Results: Statistically significant differences were found between VO(2)peak values in the 3 groups at both 14years of age, F(2, 73)=7.16, p<.05, eta(2)=.170, and 19years of age, F(2, 73)=14.00, p<.05, eta(2)=.300, independent of sex at both 14 and 19years of age, F(2, 73)=0.05, p>.05, eta(2)=.02, and F(2, 73)=0.05, p>.05, eta(2)=.00. Adolescents participating in organized sport also had statistically significantly higher VO(2)peak values than adolescents participating in unorganized PA and those with no weekly PA, at both 14 and 19years of age. Conclusion: From a health perspective, in terms of CRF, the findings highlight the importance of encouraging adolescents to participate in organized sport and to refrain from dropping out of organized sport programs.		[Lagestad, Pal] Nord Univ, Levanger, Norway; [Mehus, Ingar] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, Trondheim, Norway; [Lagestad, Pal] Nord Univ, Fac Educ & Arts, Hogskoleveien 27, N-7600 Levanger, Norway								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600003	36	Article; Article		
J	Sugimoto, Dai; Howell, David R.; Tocci, Noah X.; Meehan, William P., III								Risk factors associated with self-reported injury history in female youth soccer players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			312	318		10.1080/00913847.2018.1462651			2018	2018	Background: studies that investigate risk factors for musculoskeletal injuries in female youth athletes are limited, especially related to training attributes and position status. Objective: to determine risk factors including training attributes and position status for a self-reported musculoskeletal injury history in female youth soccer players. Methods: we conducted a cross-sectional study of young female soccer players (mean age: 13.62.3years). we asked about their history of musculoskeletal injuries using an electronic questionnaire. the proportion of young female soccer players with and without a history of soccer-related musculoskeletal injuries were compared based on physical characteristics, training attributes, position status (single vs. multiple), lower extremity strength, and joint laxity. a binary logistic regression analysis was used to generate, and adjusted odds ratios adjusted for potential co-variates (aor). a 95% confidence interval (95%ci) that did not cross one or p<0.05 were considered statistically significant. Results: a total of 160 young female soccer players (mean age: 13.6 +/- 2.3years) participated in the study. an independent association was found between prior musculoskeletal injuries and older ages (aor: 1.60, 95%ci: 1.17, 2.20, p=0.004), higher weight (aor: 1.10, 95%ci: 1.01, 1.20, p=0.026), and greater bmi (aor: 1.43, 95%ci: 1.07, 1.90, p=0.014). Conclusions: musculoskeletal injuries were associated with age, weight, and bmi in female youth players. the current study indicates that maintaining proper body composition may be beneficial to reduce musculoskeletal injuries among female youth soccer players.		[Sugimoto, Dai; Howell, David R.; Meehan, William P., III] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, 9 Hope Ave,Suite 100, Waltham, MA 02453 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Meehan, William P., III] Boston Childrens Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Boston, MA USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Meehan, William P., III] Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA USA; [Howell, David R.] Childrens Hosp Colorado, Sports Med Ctr, Aurora, CO USA; [Howell, David R.] Univ Colorado Denver, Dept Orthoped, Sch Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Tocci, Noah X.] Beth Israel Deaconess Med Ctr, Ctr Healthcare Delivery Sci, Boston, MA 02215 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, 9 Hope Ave,Suite 100, Waltham, MA 02453 USA								19							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700008	47	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Li-I; Gu, Chin-Yi; Wang, I-Lin; Siao, Sheng-Wun; Chen, Szu-Ting								The collision forces and lower-extremity inter-joint coordination during running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	2			143	156		10.1080/14763141.2016.1249938			2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to compare the lower extremity inter-joint coordination of different collision forces runners during running braking phase. A dynamical system approach was used to analyse the inter-joint coordination parameters. Data were collected with six infra-red cameras and two force plates. According to the impact peak of the vertical ground reaction force, twenty habitually rearfoot-strike runners were categorised into three groups: high collision forces runners (HF group, n=8), medium collision forces runners (MF group, n=5), and low collision forces runners (LF group, n=7). There were no significant differences among the three groups in the ankle and knee joint angle upon landing and in the running velocity (p>0.05). The HF group produced significantly smaller deviation phase (DP) of the hip flexion/extension-knee flexion/extension during the braking phase compared with the MF and LF groups (p<0.05). The DP of the hip flexion/extension-knee flexion/extension during the braking phase correlated negatively with the collision force (p<0.05). The disparities regarding the flexibility of lower extremity inter-joint coordination were found in high collision forces runners. The efforts of the inter-joint coordination and the risk of running injuries need to be clarified further.		[Wang, Li-I; Siao, Sheng-Wun; Chen, Szu-Ting] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Kinesiol, Hualien, Taiwan; [Gu, Chin-Yi] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Educ & Human Potentials Dev, Hualien, Taiwan; [Wang, I-Lin] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Life Sci, Hualien, Taiwan; [Wang, I-Lin] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Inst Biotechnol, Hualien, Taiwan; [Wang, Li-I] Natl Dong Hwa Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Kinesiol, Hualien, Taiwan								8							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000430052500001	34	Article; Article		
J	Matsuo, Tomoyuki; Jinji, Tsutomu; Hirayama, Daisaku; Nasu, Daiki; Ozaki, Hiroki; Kumagawa, Daisuke								Middle finger and ball movements around ball release during baseball fastball pitching								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	2			180	191		10.1080/14763141.2016.1261932			2018	2018	The objectives of this study were to investigate middle finger movements and dynamics of ball movements around the instant of ball release during baseball pitching. Baseball pitching from an indoor mound among 14 semi-professional pitchers was captured using a motion capture system with 16 high-speed cameras (1,000Hz). Kinematics of middle finger joints, ball rotation, and force applied to the ball were calculated. The proximal and distal interphalangeal joints continued to extend until the instant of ball release, then abruptly flexed. The abrupt flexion lasted for only several milliseconds, followed by a short extension phase. The finger made a quick double cycle of extension-flexion movement, suggesting that it attained high stiffness resulting from co-contraction. The ball began to roll up to the tip of the finger 8 +/- 1ms before ball release owing to the start of extension or the increased angular velocity of extension for the proximal interphalangeal joint. A mean force of 195 +/- 27N was applied in the proximal direction of the hand at the same time as the beginning of ball rolling, and a mean force of 109 +/- 22N was applied to the throwing direction just before ball release.		[Matsuo, Tomoyuki] Osaka Univ, Grad Sch Med, Hlth & Sports Sci, Osaka, Japan; [Jinji, Tsutomu] Kokugakuin Univ, Fac Human Dev, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Hirayama, Daisaku] Univ Tsukuba, Sports R&D Core, Ibaraki, Japan; [Nasu, Daiki] NTT Commun Sci Labs, Human Informat Sci Lab, Atsugi, Kanagawa, Japan; [Ozaki, Hiroki] Singapore Sports Inst, Sport Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; [Kumagawa, Daisuke] Japan Sport Council, Japan Inst Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Matsuo, Tomoyuki] Osaka Univ, Grad Sch Med, Hlth & Sports Sci, Osaka, Japan								20							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000430052500004	19	Article; Article		
J	Gil, Joseph A.; Elia, Gregory; Shah, Kalpit N.; Owens, Brett D.; Got, Christopher								Epidemiology of fishing related upper extremity injuries presenting to the emergency department in the United States								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			319	323		10.1080/00913847.2018.1462650			2018	2018	Objective: Fishing injuries commonly affect the hands. The goal of this study was to quantify the incidence of fishing-related upper extremity injuries that present to emergency departments in the United States. Methods: We examined the reported cases of fishing-related upper extremity injuries in the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System database. Analysis was performed based on age, sex and the type of injury reported. Results: The national incidence of fishing-related upper extremity injuries was 119.6 per 1 million person-years in 2014. The most common anatomic site for injury was the finger (63.3%), followed by the hand (20.3%). The most common type of injury in the upper extremity was the presence of a foreign body (70.4%). The incidence of fishing-related upper extremity injuries in males was 200 per 1 million person-years, which was significantly higher than the incidence in females (41 per 1 million person-years). Conclusion: The incidence of fishing-related upper extremity injuries that present to the Emergency Department was 120 per 1 million person-years. The incidence was significantly higher in males. With the widespread popularity of the activity, it is important for Emergency Physicians and Hand Surgeons to understand how to properly evaluate and manage these injuries.		[Gil, Joseph A.; Elia, Gregory; Shah, Kalpit N.; Owens, Brett D.; Got, Christopher] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [Shah, Kalpit N.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700009	18	Article; Article		
J	Colyer, Steffi L.; Stokes, Keith A.; Bilzon, James L. J.; Salo, Aki I. T.								Skeleton sled velocity profiles: a novel approach to understand critical aspects of the elite athletes' start phases								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	2			168	179		10.1080/14763141.2016.1261183			2018	2018	The development of velocity across the skeleton start is critical to performance, yet poorly understood. We aimed to understand which components of the sled velocity profile determine performance and how physical abilities influence these components. Thirteen well-trained skeleton athletes (>85% of athletes in the country) performed dry-land push-starts alongside countermovement jump and sprint tests at multiple time-points. A magnet encoder attached to the sled wheel provided velocity profiles, which were characterised using novel performance descriptors. Stepwise regression revealed four variables (pre-load velocity, pre-load distance, load effectiveness, velocity drop) to explain 99% variance in performance ( weights: 1.70, -0.81, 0.25, -0.07, respectively). Sprint times and jump ability were associated (r +/- 90% CI) with pre-load velocity (-0.70 +/- 0.27 and 0.88 +/- 0.14, respectively) and distance (-0.48 +/- 0.39 and 0.67 +/- 0.29, respectively), however, unclear relationships between both physical measures and load effectiveness (0.33 +/- 0.44 and -0.35 +/- 0.48, respectively) were observed. Athletes should develop accelerative ability to attain higher velocity earlier on the track. Additionally, the loading phase should not be overlooked and may be more influenced by technique than physical factors. Future studies should utilise this novel approach when evaluating skeleton starts or interventions to enhance performance.		[Colyer, Steffi L.; Stokes, Keith A.; Bilzon, James L. J.; Salo, Aki I. T.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Salo, Aki I. T.] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000430052500003	18	Article; Article		
J	Skals, Sebastian; Vinstrup, Jonas; Sundstrup, Emil; Jakobsen, Markus D.; Andersen, Christoffer H.; Andersen, Lars L.								Shoulder and arm muscle activity during elastic band exercises performed in a hospital bed								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	2			233	241		10.1080/00913847.2018.1441580			2018	2018	Objective: Muscle atrophy is a common side-effect of bed rest during hospitalization. However, resistance training may minimize or even prevent these complications. Therefore, we evaluated the efficiency of four upper-body elastic resistance exercises that could be performed while lying or sitting in a hospital bed. Methods: Twenty-two healthy subjects performed three repetitions of each exercise in a supine and seated position with a perceived intensity of 3 (low) and 8 (high) on the Borg CR10 Scale. Surface electromyography was collected from 12 shoulder and arm muscles (e.g. trapezius, deltoideus, and biceps brachii), and normalized to a maximal voluntary isometric contraction (nEMG). Results: During all exercises performed at high intensity, moderate (>40%) to high (>60%) levels of nEMG were found for the majority of the analysed muscles, e.g. deltoideus (from 37% to 69%, median 57.5%), trapezius (from 43% to 66%, median 51%), and infraspinatus (from 54% to 66%, median 59%), with the exception of pectoralis major (from 29% to 47%, median 39.5%) and latissimus dorsi (from 15% to 22%, median 18.5%). No significant differences were found between the supine and seated positions for any of the exercises. Conclusion: This study showed that high levels of shoulder and arm muscle activity can be achieved while lying or sitting in a hospital bed using appropriate exercises with elastic bands. The data presented here can be used by physiotherapists as a guideline for selecting suitable and effective strengthening exercises during in-hospital rehabilitation to counteract bed-rest related muscle atrophy in the upper body.		[Skals, Sebastian; Vinstrup, Jonas; Sundstrup, Emil; Jakobsen, Markus D.; Andersen, Lars L.] Natl Res Ctr Working Environm, Musculoskeletal Disorders, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Skals, Sebastian; Vinstrup, Jonas; Andersen, Lars L.] Aalborg Univ, Dept Hlth Sci & Technol, Sport Sci, Aalborg, Denmark; [Andersen, Christoffer H.] Metropolitan Univ Coll, Fac Hlth & Technol, Dept Physiotherapy & Occupat Therapy, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Skals, Sebastian] Lerso Pk Alle 105, DK-2100 Copenhagen East, Denmark								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000432562800011	35	Article; Article		
J	Lilley, Thomas; Herb, Christopher C.; Hart, Joseph; Hertel, Jay								Lower extremity joint coupling variability during gait in young adults with and without chronic ankle instability								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	2			261	272		10.1080/14763141.2017.1287215			2018	2018	Chronic ankle instability (CAI) is a condition resulting from a lateral ankle sprain. Shank-rearfoot joint-coupling variability differences have been found in CAI patients; however, joint-coupling variability (VCV) of the ankle and proximal joints has not been explored. Our purpose was to analyse VCV in adults with and without CAI during gait. Four joint-coupling pairs were analysed: knee sagittal-ankle sagittal, knee sagittal-ankle frontal, hip frontal-ankle sagittal and hip frontal-ankle frontal. Twenty-seven adults participated (CAI:n=13, Control:n=14). Lower extremity kinematics were collected during walking (4.83km/h) and jogging (9.66km/h). Vector-coding was used to assess the stride-to-stride variability of four coupling pairs. During walking, CAI patients exhibited higher VCV than healthy controls for knee sagittal-ankle frontal in latter parts of stance thru mid-swing. When jogging, CAI patients demonstrated lower VCV with specific differences occurring across various intervals of gait. The increased knee sagittal-ankle frontal VCV in CAI patients during walking may indicate an adaptation to deal with the previously identified decrease in variability in transverse plane shank and frontal plane rearfoot coupling during walking; while the decreased ankle-knee and ankle-hip VCV identified in CAI patients during jogging may represent a more rigid, less adaptable sensorimotor system ambulating at a faster speed.		[Lilley, Thomas; Hart, Joseph; Hertel, Jay] Univ Virginia, Curry Sch Educ, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Herb, Christopher C.] Weber State Univ, Moyes Coll Educ, Dept Athlet Training & Nutr, Ogden, UT 84408 USA; [Herb, Christopher C.] Weber State Univ, Moyes Coll Educ, Dept Athlet Training & Nutr, Ogden, UT 84408 USA								26							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000430052500011	37	Article; Article		
J	Friesenbichler, Bernd; Item-Glatthorn, Julia F.; Neunstocklin, Fabian; Casartelli, Nicola C.; Guilhem, Gael; Maffiuletti, Nicola A.								Differences in trunk and thigh muscle strength, endurance and thickness between elite sailors and non-sailors								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	2			216	226		10.1080/14763141.2016.1271008			2018	2018	Dinghy sailors lean their upper body over the windward side of the boat (hiking') to keep the boat's balance and maximise its speed. Sustaining the hiking position is essential for competitive performance and this study examined sport-specific differences of muscles relevant for hiking in elite sailors. Knee extensor muscle strength as well as trunk muscle strength, muscle endurance and muscle thickness were assessed in elite dinghy sailors (n=15) and compared to matched, non-sailing controls (n=15). Isometric extensor strength was significantly higher in sailors at 60 degrees (+14%) but not at 20 degrees knee flexion. Sailors showed significantly higher trunk flexor (but not extensor) strength under isometric (+18%) and eccentric (+11%) conditions, which was associated to greater muscle thickness (rectus abdominis+40%; external oblique+26%) and higher endurance for ventral (+66%) and lateral (+61%) muscle chains compared to non-sailors. Greater muscles thickness and the particular biomechanical requirements to maintain the hiking position may drive the increases in isometric and eccentric muscle strength as well as ventral and lateral trunk endurance. The current findings identified sport-specific muscle function differences and provide performance benchmarks for muscle strength and endurance in elite sailors.		[Friesenbichler, Bernd; Item-Glatthorn, Julia F.; Casartelli, Nicola C.; Maffiuletti, Nicola A.] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland; [Neunstocklin, Fabian] Schulthess Clin, Dept Performance Diagnost, Zurich, Switzerland; [Guilhem, Gael] French Natl Inst Sport, Res Dept, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, Paris, France; [Friesenbichler, Bernd] Schulthess Clin, Human Performance Lab, Zurich, Switzerland								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000430052500007	27	Article; Article		
J	Mok, Kam-Ming; Bahr, Roald; Krosshaug, Tron								Reliability of lower limb biomechanics in two sport-specific sidestep cutting tasks								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	2			157	167		10.1080/14763141.2016.1260766			2018	2018	The purpose of this study was to assess the within- and between-session reliability of lower limb biomechanics in two sport-specific sidestep cutting tasks performed by elite female handball and football (soccer) athletes. Moreover, we aimed at determining the minimum number of trials necessary to obtain a reliable measure. Nineteen elite female handball and 22 elite female football (soccer) athletes (M +/- SD: 22 +/- 4 yrs old, 168 +/- 5cm, 66 +/- 8kg) were tested. The reliability was quantified by intra-class correlations (ICCs), typical error and Spearman's rank correlation. Only minor improvements in ICC values were seen when increasing the number of trials from 3 to 5. Based on trials 1-3, all variables showed good to excellent within-session reliability (M ICC: 0.91, 95% CI: 0.89-0.93), fair to good between-session reliability (M ICC: 0.73, 95% CI: 0.70-0.76), moderately positive between-session rank correlation coefficients (M: 0.72, 95% CI: 0.69-0.76). A few frontal plane biomechanical variables displayed lower between-session reliability in the football task compared with the handball task. The moderately positive between-session ranking and practically small typical error implies that the measurements could reliably reproduce the ranking of individuals in multiple-session studies. Adequate reliability could be attained from 3 trials, with only minor improvements when adding more trials.		[Mok, Kam-Ming; Bahr, Roald; Krosshaug, Tron] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Oslo, Norway; [Mok, Kam-Ming] Chinese Univ Hong Kong, Prince Wales Hosp, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, Fac Med, Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Krosshaug, Tron] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Oslo, Norway								41							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000430052500002	34	Article; Article		
J	Taylor, Jeffrey B.; Anh-Dung Nguyen; Griffin, Janet R.; Ford, Kevin R.								Effects of turf and cleat footwear on plantar load distributions in adolescent American football players during resisted pushing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	2			227	237		10.1080/14763141.2016.1271448			2018	2018	Metatarsal and midfoot injuries are common in American football. Footwear design may influence injury rates by altering plantar foot loading patterns in these regions. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of cleat design on in-shoe plantar foot loading during a football-specific, resisted pushing task. Twenty competitive football players (age 14.7 +/- 1.8years, height 1.72 +/- 0.10m, and mass 71.8 +/- 26.9kg) completed three trials of pushing a weighted sled at maximal effort in a standard shoe (CLEAT) and artificial turf-specific shoe (TURF), with flexible in-shoe force measuring insoles. Repeated measures ANOVAs identified mean differences in maximum force and relative load under all regions of the foot. Results showed higher forces in the CLEAT under the medial (p<0.001) and lateral (p=0.004) midfoot, central (p=0.007) and lateral (p<0.001) forefoot, and lesser toes (p=0.01), but lower forces in the hallux (p=0.02) compared to the TURF shoe. Additionally, relative loading was higher in the CLEAT under the medial (p<0.001) and lateral (p=0.002) midfoot and lateral (p<0.001) forefoot, but lower in the medial forefoot (p=0.006) and hallux (p<0.001) compared to the TURF shoe. The two shoes elicited distinct plantar loading profiles and may influence shoe selection decisions during injury prevention or rehabilitation practices.		[Taylor, Jeffrey B.; Ford, Kevin R.] Congdon Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, High Point, NC 27260 USA; [Anh-Dung Nguyen] Congdon Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Athlet Training, High Point, NC USA; [Griffin, Janet R.] Adidas Int, Portland, OR USA; High Point Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Human Biomech & Physiol Lab, High Point, NC 27268 USA; [Taylor, Jeffrey B.] Congdon Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, High Point, NC 27260 USA								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000430052500008	33	Article; Article		
J	Dai, Boyi; Cook, Ross F.; Meyer, Elizabeth A.; Sciascia, Yvonne; Hinshaw, Taylour J.; Wang, Chaoyi; Zhu, Qin								The effect of a secondary cognitive task on landing mechanics and jump performance								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	2			192	205		10.1080/14763141.2016.1265579			2018	2018	Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries commonly occur during jump-landing tasks when individuals' attention is simultaneously allocated to other objects and tasks. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the effect of allocation of attention imposed by a secondary cognitive task on landing mechanics and jump performance. Thirty-eight recreational athletes performed a jump-landing task in three conditions: no counting, counting backward by 1s from a randomly given number, and counting backward by 7s from a randomly given number. Three-dimensional kinematics and ground reaction forces were collected and analysed. Participants demonstrated decreased knee flexion angles at initial contact (p=0.001) for the counting by 1s condition compared with the no counting condition. Participants also showed increased peak posterior and vertical ground reaction forces during the first 100ms of landing (p0.023) and decreased jump height (p<0.001) for the counting by 1s and counting by 7s conditions compared with the no counting condition. Imposition of a simultaneous cognitive challenge resulted in landing mechanics associated with increased ACL loading and decreased jump performance. ACL injury risk screening protocols and injury prevention programmes may incorporate cognitive tasks into jump-landing tasks to better simulate sports environments.		[Dai, Boyi; Cook, Ross F.; Meyer, Elizabeth A.; Sciascia, Yvonne; Hinshaw, Taylour J.; Zhu, Qin] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Wang, Chaoyi] Jilin Univ, Dept Sports Med, Hosp 1, Changchun, Jilin, Peoples R China; [Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA								66							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000430052500005	54	Article; Article		
J	Kwon, Ja Youn; Kulinna, Pamela Hodges; van der Mars, Hans; Koro-Ljungberg, Mirka; Amrein-Beardsley, Audrey; Norris, Jason								Physical Education Preservice Teachers' Perceptions About Preparation for Comprehensive School Physical Activity Programs								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			221	234		10.1080/02701367.2018.1443196			2018	2018	Purpose: Physical educators may be the responsible people for implementing comprehensive school physical activity programs (CSPAPs) in schools. However, it is unclear whether physical education teacher education (PETE) programs provide the relevant learning opportunities to preservice teachers for CSPAP implementation. The purpose of this study was to understand preservice teachers' perspectives and experiences of CSPAP preparation in their PETE programs. Method: Fourteen PETE students from 6 different universities participated and shared their experiences in PETE programs. Data were collected through a short survey, 1 formal interview, field images, document gathering, and an additional survey to follow up the interview. Descriptive statistics, constant comparison, and analytic induction techniques were used to analyze the data. Results: Participants' familiarity with CSPAPs was related to positive opinions about the role of physical educators in CSPAPs. Three common themes were revealed: (a) introducing CSPAP via courses, (b) the lack of programwide hands-on experiences for CSPAP, and (c) limited preparation for social skills with stakeholders. Participants' perceptions of the role of physical educators as physical activity leaders had been expanded during their training. Conclusion: The participating PETE programs integrated CSPAP components in the existing courses to introduce CSPAP, while there was a lack of sufficient practical opportunities to learn how to implement (aspects of) a CSPAP. Participants felt they were insufficiently prepared to promote and implement expanded physical activity programming beyond physical education classes in schools. The majority of the PETE preservice teachers wanted more practical CSPAP experiences in their programs.		[Kwon, Ja Youn; Kulinna, Pamela Hodges; van der Mars, Hans; Koro-Ljungberg, Mirka; Amrein-Beardsley, Audrey] Arizona State Univ, Santa Catalina Hall,Room 350G, Mesa, AZ 85212 USA; [Norris, Jason] Texas A&M Int Univ, Laredo, TX USA; [Kwon, Ja Youn] Arizona State Univ, Mary Lou Fulton Teachers Coll, Santa Catalina Hall,Room 350G, Mesa, AZ 85212 USA								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600011	40	Article; Article		
J	van Abswoude, Femke; Nuijen, Nienke B.; van der Kamp, John; Steenbergen, Bert								Individual Differences Influencing Immediate Effects of Internal and External Focus Instructions on Children's Motor Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			190	199		10.1080/02701367.2018.1442915			2018	2018	Purpose: A large pool of evidence supports the beneficial effect of an external focus of attention on motor skill performance in adults. In children, this effect has been studied less and results are inconclusive. Importantly, individual differences are often not taken into account. We investigated the role of working memory, conscious motor control, and task-specific focus preferences on performance with an internal and external focus of attention in children. Methods: Twenty-five children practiced a golf putting task in both an internal focus condition and external focus condition. Performance was defined as the average distance toward the hole in 3 blocks of 10 trials. Task-specific focus preference was determined by asking how much effort it took to apply the instruction in each condition. In addition, working memory capacity and conscious motor control were assessed. Results: Children improved performance in both the internal focus condition and external focus condition (?(2)(p)=.47), with no difference between conditions (?(2)(p)=.01). Task-specific focus preference was the only factor moderately related to the difference between performance with an internal focus and performance with an external focus (r=.56), indicating better performance for the preferred instruction in Block 3. Conclusion: Children can benefit from instruction with both an internal and external focus of attention to improve short-term motor performance. Individual, task-specific focus preference influenced the effect of the instructions, with children performing better with their preferred focus. The results highlight that individual differences are a key factor in the effectiveness in children's motor performance. The precise mechanisms underpinning this effect warrant further research.		[van Abswoude, Femke; Nuijen, Nienke B.; Steenbergen, Bert] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [van der Kamp, John] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van der Kamp, John] Univ Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Steenbergen, Bert] Australian Catholic Univ, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [van Abswoude, Femke] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Inst Behav Sci, Montessorilaan 3,POB 9104, NL-6500 HE Nijmegen, Netherlands								38							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600008	36	Article; Article		
J	Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto; Garcia-Gallart, Antonio; Gallardo, Ana M.; Sanchez-Saez, Juan A.; Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier								Effects of structural components of artificial turf on the transmission of impacts in football players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	2			251	260		10.1080/14763141.2017.1285347			2018	2018	The third generation of artificial turf systems (ATS) has matched the mechanical behaviour of natural grass, but today a high heterogeneity at structural level and mechanical behaviour in the new ATS also exists. The objective was to analyse the effect of the structural components of ATS football pitches and running speed on the capacity of impact attenuation. A total of 12 athletes were evaluated at three speed conditions (3.33m/s, 4m/s and maximum speed) on four different ATS, classifying them by their components (length of fibre, type of in-fill and sub-base). Impact attenuation was significantly higher in ATS3, characterised by longer fibre compared to other ATS with less fibre length. The ATS4 with a higher length fibre and built on compacted granular material proportioned significantly lower values in the maximum peaks of tibia acceleration. Finally, as speed increases, the peak tibia impacts were significantly higher. Longer fibre length and the capacity to accommodate a higher quantity of infill facilitate higher impact attenuation. Equally, a compacted granular sub-base is related to lower magnitude of maximum tibia peaks. Finally, the magnitude of the tibia acceleration peaks is dependent of running speed for all ATS analysed, being higher as speed increases.		[Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto; Garcia-Gallart, Antonio; Gallardo, Ana M.; Sanchez-Saez, Juan A.; Sanchez-Sanchez, Javier] Catholic Univ Murcia, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Act, Murcia, Spain; [Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto] Catholic Univ Murcia, Fac Phys Act & Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci & Phys Act, Murcia, Spain								15							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000430052500010	27	Article; Article		
J	Mauntel, Timothy C.; Cram, Tyler R.; Frank, Barnett S.; Begalle, Rebecca L.; Norcross, Marc F.; Blackburn, J. Troy; Padua, Darin A.								Kinematic and neuromuscular relationships between lower extremity clinical movement assessments								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	2			273	284		10.1080/14763141.2017.1348536			2018	2018	Lower extremity injuries have immediate and long-term consequences. Lower extremity movement assessments can assist with identifying individuals at greater injury risk and guide injury prevention interventions. Movement assessments identify similar movement characteristics and evidence suggests large magnitude kinematic relationships exist between movement patterns observed across assessments; however, the magnitude of the relationships for electromyographic (EMG) measures across movement assessments remains largely unknown. This study examined relationships between lower extremity kinematic and EMG measures during jump landings and single leg squats. Lower extremity three-dimensional kinematic and EMG data were sampled from healthy adults (males=20, females=20) during the movement assessments. Pearson correlations examined the relationships of the kinematic and EMG measures and paired samples t-tests compared mean kinematic and EMG measures between the assessments. Overall, significant moderate correlations were observed for lower extremity kinematic (r(avg)=0.41, r(range)=0.10-0.61) and EMG (r(avg)=0.47, r(range)=0.32-0.80) measures across assessments. Kinematic and EMG measures were greater during the jump landings. Jump landings and single leg squats place different demands on the body and necessitate different kinematic and EMG patterns, such that these measures are not highly correlated between assessments. Clinicians should, therefore, use multiple assessments to identify aberrant movement and neuromuscular control patterns so that comprehensive interventions can be implemented.		[Mauntel, Timothy C.] Walter Reed Natl Mil Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed, Bethesda, MD 20889 USA; [Cram, Tyler R.] Steadman Clin, Vail, CO USA; [Frank, Barnett S.; Padua, Darin A.] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Sports Med Res Lab, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Begalle, Rebecca L.] Daemen Coll, Div Hlth & Human Serv, Amherst, NY USA; [Norcross, Marc F.] Oregon State Univ, Coll Publ Hlth & Human Sci, Sch Biol & Populat Hlth Sci, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Blackburn, J. Troy] Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Neuromuscular Res Lab, Chapel Hill, NC USA; Univ North Carolina Chapel Hill, Sports Med Res Lab, Chapel Hill, NC USA; [Mauntel, Timothy C.] Walter Reed Natl Mil Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed, Bethesda, MD 20889 USA								6							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000430052500012	37	Article; Article		
J	Agresta, Cristine; Ward, Christian R.; Wright, W. Geoffrey; Tucker, Carole A.								The effect of unilateral arm swing motion on lower extremity running mechanics associated with injury risk								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	2			206	215		10.1080/14763141.2016.1269186			2018	2018	Many field sports involve equipment that restricts one or both arms from moving while running. Arm swing during running has been examined from a biomechanical and physiologic perspective but not from an injury perspective. Moreover, only bilateral arm swing suppression has been studied with respect to running. The purpose of this study was to determine the influence of running with one arm restrained on lower extremity mechanics associated with running or sport-related injury. Fifteen healthy participants ran at a self-selected speed with typical arm swing, with one arm restrained and with both arms restrained. Lower extremity kinematics and spatiotemporal measures were analysed for all arm swing conditions. Running with one arm restrained resulted in increased frontal plane knee and hip angles, decreased foot strike angle, and decreased centre of mass vertical displacement compared to typical arm swing or bilateral arm swing restriction. Stride length was decreased and step frequency increased when running with one or both arms restrained. Unilateral arm swing restriction induces changes in lower extremity kinematics that are not similar to running with bilateral arm swing restriction or typical arm swing motion. Running with one arm restrained increases frontal plane mechanics associated with risk of knee injury.		[Agresta, Cristine; Wright, W. Geoffrey; Tucker, Carole A.] Temple Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Ward, Christian R.] Temple Univ, Dept Elect & Comp Engn, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Wright, W. Geoffrey] Temple Univ, Dept Bioengn, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Agresta, Cristine] Temple Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000430052500006	35	Article; Article		
J	DeFroda, Steven F.; Bokshan, Steven L.; Boulos, Alex; Owens, Brett D.								Variability of online available physical therapy protocols from academic orthopedic surgery programs for arthroscopic meniscus repair								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			355	360		10.1080/00913847.2018.1457933			2018	2018	Objectives: To evaluate the variability of arthroscopic meniscus repair rehabilitation protocols. Methods: Arthroscopic meniscus repair rehabilitation protocols from Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) accredited orthopedic surgery programs available online were included for review. Data collection was performed to evaluate recommended weight bearing status and immobilization as well as the presence or absence of recommended therapies, goals for progression of range of motion, functional milestones, and activity initiation time points within each protocol. Results: Out of 162 institutions available for review, 24 (14.8%) institutions made their protocol available on their website, with 28 total protocols available. Initially following repair, 14 (50%) of the protocols allow for weight bearing as tolerated (WBAT). Of the 14 protocols, which do not allow immediate weightbearing, average time to WBAT was 4.7 +/- 1.8 weeks. On average, immobilization was recommended for 6.5 +/- 2.1 weeks (range 4-12 weeks). A large majority of protocols gave recommendations for flexion to 90 degrees (24 protocols, range 1-8 weeks), as well as full range of motion (22 protocols, range 6-16 weeks). Active range of motion was recommended to begin at 0-6 weeks (average 3.8 +/- 1.9 weeks). Lastly, only 14 protocols (50%) gave an actual return to sport, with an average return recommended at 21.9 +/- 3.4 weeks (range 12-24). Conclusion: A minority of ACGME-accredited orthopedic surgery programs make their meniscus repair rehabilitation protocols available online. Furthermore, protocols were found to be highly variable. This discrepancy may lead to confusion among therapists and patients.		[DeFroda, Steven F.; Bokshan, Steven L.; Boulos, Alex; Owens, Brett D.] Brown Univ, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Providence, RI 02903 USA; [DeFroda, Steven F.] Brown Univ, Dept Orthopaed, Alpert Med Sch, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700015	17	Article; Article		
J	Costa, Rochelle Rocha; Pilla, Carmen; Koch Buttelli, Adriana Cristine; Barreto, Michelle Flores; Vieiro, Priscila Azevedo; Alberton, Cristine Lima; Bracht, Claudia Gomes; Martins Kruel, Luiz Fernando								Water-Based Aerobic Training Successfully Improves Lipid Profile of Dyslipidemic Women: A Randomized Controlled Trial								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	2			173	182		10.1080/02701367.2018.1441485			2018	2018	Purpose: This study aimed to investigate the effects of water-based aerobic training on the lipid profile and lipoprotein lipase (LPL) levels in premenopausal women with dyslipidemia. Method: Forty women were randomly assigned to: aquatic training (WA; n=20) or a control group (CG; n=20). The WA group underwent 12weeks of water-based interval aerobic training twice a week at intensities ranging from 9 to 15 on the Borg Scale of Perceived Exertion. Total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), high- (HDL) and low- (LDL) density lipoprotein, TC/HDL ratio, LPL levels, and peak oxygen consumption (VO(2)peak) were evaluated before and after 12weeks in both groups. Results: The WA group elicited decreases in TC (9%; effect size [ES]=0.69; 95% CI [0.05, 1.33]), LDL (16%; ES=0.78; 95% CI [0.13, 1.42]), and the TC/HDL ratio (17%; ES=1.13; 95% CI [0.46, 1.79]), as well as increases in VO(2)peak (10%; ES=0.64; 95% CI [0.002, 1.27]) and HDL (10%; ES=0.28; 95% CI [-0.35. 0.90]), without significant changes in TG (ES=0.16; 95% CI [-0.46, 1.79]) and LPL (ES=0.36; 95% CI [-0.27, 0.98]) levels. In the CG, no statistically significant changes in any of these variables were found (TC, ES=0.19, 95% CI [-0.43, 0.82]; LDL, ES=0.22, 95% CI [-0.40, 0.85]; HDL, ES=0.05, 95% CI [-0.57, 0.67]; TG, ES=0.09, 95% CI [-0.53, 0.71]; TC/HDL ratio, ES=0.20, 95% CI [-0.42, 0.82]; LPL, ES=0.02, 95% CI [-0.60, 0.64]; VO(2)peak, ES=0.20, 95% CI [-0.42, 0.82]). Conclusion: Water-based interval aerobic training positively affected the lipid profile in premenopausal dyslipidemic women.		[Costa, Rochelle Rocha; Pilla, Carmen; Koch Buttelli, Adriana Cristine; Barreto, Michelle Flores; Vieiro, Priscila Azevedo; Bracht, Claudia Gomes; Martins Kruel, Luiz Fernando] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Alberton, Cristine Lima] Univ Fed Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Costa, Rochelle Rocha] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Exercise Res Lab, Sch Phys Educ, 750 Felizardo St, BR-90690200 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000434342600006	35	Article; Article		
J	Lima-Borges, Dayanne S.; Martinez, Paula F.; Vanderlei, Luiz Carlos M.; Barbosa, Fernando S. S.; Oliveira-Junior, Silvio A.								Autonomic modulations of heart rate variability are associated with sports injury incidence in sprint swimmers								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	3			374	384		10.1080/00913847.2018.1450606			2018	2018	Objectives: Young athletes' participation in competitive sports is becoming increasingly common, and this increased involvement raises concerns about the occurrence of overtraining and sports injuries. Since these issues are poorly understood, this study analyzed heart rate variability, stress/recovery relationship, and sports injury incidence during a training macrocycle of young sprint and endurance swimmers. Methods: Thirty teenage swimmers (aged 12 to 17 years) were divided into two groups as follows: Sprint (n = 17) and Endurance (n = 13). Subjects were evaluated over 20 weeks, based on the following three schedules: general, specific, and competitive. In addition to heart rate variability and sports injury incidence, the Recovery-Stress-Questionnaire of Athletes was used to analyse stress/recovery states in athletes. All procedures were developed at the initial moment and at the end of each periodization step. Results: The Sprint group presented a reduced standard deviation of normal-normal beats (73.0 +/- 6.6 vs. 54.1 +/- 3.5 ms; p < 0.05) and root mean square of the successive differences (55.3 +/- 6.2 vs. 42.0 +/- 3.7 ms; p < 0.01) from the period of general preparation until the time of competition. Recovery-stress monitoring was affected only by the swimming training periodization (p < 0.05). During the general period, differences between recovery and stress scales were correlated directly with the root mean square of the successive differences (r = 0.576; p = 0.001), the standard deviation of instantaneous variability beat-to-beat (r = 0.521; p = 0.003) and the triangular index (r = 0.476; p = 0.008). Differences between general recovery and stress scales were inversely correlated with geometric indexes after the specific training period. Moreover, the Sprint group showed a higher incidence of sports injury than the Endurance group (0.0214 +/- 0.0068 vs. 0.0136 +/- 0.0050 cases/1000 hours). Conclusion: Sprint training was associated with progressive activation of the sympathetic nervous system as well as a higher incidence of sports injury in comparison to endurance swimming during a training macrocycle.		[Lima-Borges, Dayanne S.; Martinez, Paula F.; Barbosa, Fernando S. S.; Oliveira-Junior, Silvio A.] Univ Fed Mato Grosso do Sul, Postgrad Program Hlth & Dev, Campo Grande, Brazil; [Martinez, Paula F.; Oliveira-Junior, Silvio A.] Univ Fed Mato Grosso do Sul, Sch Phys Therapy, Campo Grande, Brazil; [Vanderlei, Luiz Carlos M.] UNESP, Fac Sci & Technol FCT, Dept Phys Therapy, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Vanderlei, Luiz Carlos M.] UNESP, Fac Sci & Technol FCT, Postgrad Program Phys Therapy, Presidente Prudente, Brazil; [Oliveira-Junior, Silvio A.] Fed Univ Mato Grosso do Sul UFMS, Sch Phys Therapy, Cidade Univ,Univ S-N, BR-19070900 Campo Grande, Brazil								13							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000443915700018	66	Article; Article		
J	Vera, Jesus; Jimenez, Raimundo; Antonio Garcia, Jose; Cesar Perales, Jose; Cardenas, David								Baseline Intraocular Pressure Is Associated With Subjective Sensitivity to Physical Exertion in Young Males								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	1			25	37		10.1080/02701367.2017.1407491			2018	2018	Purpose: The purposes of this study were to (a) investigate the effect of physical effort (cycling for 60 min at 60 +/- 5% of individually computed reserve heart-rate capacity), combined with 2 different levels of cognitive demand (2-back, oddball), on intraocular pressure (IOP) and subjective judgments of perceived exertion (ratings of perceived exertion [RPE]), affect (Affective Valence subscale of the Self-Assessment Manikin [SAM]), and mental workload (National Aeronautics and Space Administration Task Load Index [NASA-TLX]); and (b) ascertain whether baseline IOP, measured before exercise, is associated with individual differences in subjective assessments of effort and affective response during exercise. Method: Seventeen participants (M-age = 23.28 +/- 2.37 years) performed 2 physical/cognitive dual tasks, matched in physical demand but with different mental requirements (2-back, oddball). We assessed IOP before exercise, after 2 min of active recovery, and after 15 min of passive recovery, and we also collected RPE and SAM measures during the sessions (28 measurement points). We used NASA-TLX and cognitive performance as checks of the mental manipulation. Results: (a) Intraocular pressure increased after concomitant physical/mental effort, with the effect reaching statistical significance after the 2-back task (p = .002, d = 0.35) but not after the oddball condition (p = .092, d = 0.29). (b) Baseline IOP was associated with subjective sensitivity to effort and showed statistical significance for the oddball condition (p = .03,.eta(2)(p) = .622) but not for the 2-back task (F < 1). Conclusions: Results suggest a relationship between IOP and physical/cognitive effort, which could have implications for the management of glaucoma. Additionally, a rapid measure of IOP could be used as a marker of individual effort sensitivity in applied settings.		[Vera, Jesus; Jimenez, Raimundo; Antonio Garcia, Jose; Cesar Perales, Jose; Cardenas, David] Univ Granada, Granada, Spain; [Vera, Jesus] Univ Granada, Dept Opt, Campus Fuentenueva 2, E-18001 Granada, Spain								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000428283300003	34	Article; Article		
J	Santos, Sara; Coutinho, Diogo; Goncalves, Bruno; Schoellhorn, Wolfgang; Sampaio, Jaime; Leite, Nuno								Differential Learning as a Key Training Approach to Improve Creative and Tactical Behavior in Soccer								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	1			11	24		10.1080/02701367.2017.1412063			2018	2018	Purpose: The aim of this study was to identify the effects of a differential-learning program, embedded in small-sided games, on the creative and tactical behavior of youth soccer players. Forty players from under-13 (U13) and under-15 (U15) were allocated into control and experimental groups and were tested using a randomized pretest to posttest design using small-sided games situations. Method: The experimental group participated in a 5-month differential-learning program embodied in small-sided games situations, while the control group participated in a typical small-sided games training program. In-game creativity was assessed through notational analyses of the creative components, and the players' positional data were used to compute tactical-derived variables. Results: The findings suggested that differential learning facilitated the development of creative components, mainly concerning attempts (U13, small; U15, small), versatility (U13, moderate; U15, small), and originality (U13, unclear; U15, small) of players' actions. Likewise, the differential-learning approach provided a decrease in fails during the game in both experimental groups (moderate). Moreover, differential learning seemed to favor regularity in pitch-positioning behavior for the distance between players' dyads (U13, small; U15, small), the distance to the team target (U13, moderate; U15, small), and the distance to the opponent target (U13, moderate; U15, small). Conclusions: The differential-learning program stressed creative and positional behavior in both age groups with a distinct magnitude of effects, with the U13 players demonstrating higher improvements over the U15 players. Overall, these findings confirmed that the technical variability promoted by differential learning nurtures regularity of positioning behavior.		[Santos, Sara; Coutinho, Diogo; Goncalves, Bruno; Sampaio, Jaime; Leite, Nuno] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Vila Real, Portugal; [Schoellhorn, Wolfgang] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Mainz, Germany; [Santos, Sara] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro UTAD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev CIDESD, Creat Lab Res Community, Ediflcio Ciencias Desporto, P-5001801 Quinta De Prados, Vila Real, Portugal								93							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000428283300002	35	Article; Article		
J	Kern, Ben D.; Graber, Kim C.								Understanding Teacher Change: A National Survey of US Physical Educators								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	1			80	90		10.1080/02701367.2017.1411579			2018	2018	Physical education is critical to addressing childhood obesity, yet many school-based programs do not meet established quality standards and teachers are called upon to change. Little is known about how change is initiated and its associated internal and external factors. Purpose: The purpose of this study was to investigate physical education teacher change that was self-initiated and externally initiated and to examine dispositions toward the change process relative to initiation. Method: A random national sample of physical educators representing each SHAPE America - Society of Health and Physical Educators regional district participated in a survey measuring past programming changes, primary initiators of change, and teachers' dispositions toward change. In total, 2,423 teachers (46% response rate) completed electronic, paper, or telephone questionnaires. Results: Teachers most often made minor curriculum changes, and they added/subtracted student assessments (primarily informal assessments) least often. Self-initiated (bottom-up) change was most frequently (83.1% of the time) reported. Externally initiated (top-down) changes were less frequent and were most often associated with professional development. Teachers reported principals' involvement in both top-down and bottom-up change processes was minimal. Teachers who were more disposed to making future changes reported making significantly (p < .01, = eta(2) 046-.119) more past changes than those who were less disposed to change. Conclusions: Physical education teachers primarily self-initiated minor programming changes without involvement from administration. Externally initiated change was infrequent and mostly involved professional development. Dispositions toward change were individual and enduring such that teachers who had made more past changes were more likely to also make future changes.		[Kern, Ben D.] Univ Louisiana Lafayette, Lafayette, LA 70504 USA; [Graber, Kim C.] Univ Illinois, Champaign, IL USA; [Kern, Ben D.] Univ Louisiana Lafayette, Sch Kinesiol, 225 Cajundome Blvd, Lafayette, LA 70506 USA								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000428283300008	43	Article; Article		
J	Canabrava, Karina L. R.; Faria, Fernanda R.; de Lima, Jorge R. P.; Guedes, Dartagnan P.; Amorim, Paulo R. S.								Energy Expenditure and Intensity of Active Video Games in Children and Adolescents								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	1			47	56		10.1080/02701367.2017.1411577			2018	2018	Purpose: This study aimed to compare the energy expenditure and intensity of active video games to that of treadmill walking in children and adolescents. Method: Seventy- two boys and girls (aged 8- 13 years) were recruited from local public schools. Energy expenditure and heart rate were measured during rest, during 3- km/hr, 4- km/hr, and 5- km/hr walks, and during active games (Adventure, Boxing I, Boxing II, and Dance). During walking and active games, we also assessed physical activity using an accelerometer. Results: The energy expenditure of the active games Adventure, Boxing I, Boxing II, and Dance was similar to that of treadmill walking at 5 km/hr in boys and girls. Heart rate was significantly higher for the game Adventure compared with walking at 3 km/hr, 4 km/hr, and 5 km/hr and the game Dance in both genders. The heart rate of girls during the games Adventure and Dance was significantly higher compared with boys. There was a statistically significant difference (p<.05, with an effect size ranging from 0.40 to 3.54) in the counts center dot min(-1), measured through accelerometry, between activities. Conclusion: XBOX 360 Kinect games provide energy expenditure and physical activity of moderate intensity for both genders. The use of active video games can be an interesting alternative to increase physical activity levels.		[Canabrava, Karina L. R.; Faria, Fernanda R.; Amorim, Paulo R. S.] Univ Fed Vicosa, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [de Lima, Jorge R. P.] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Guedes, Dartagnan P.] Northern Parana Univ, Londrina, Brazil; [Canabrava, Karina L. R.] Univ Fed Vicosa, Phys Educ Dept, Av Peter Henry Rolfs,Univ Campus, BR-36570900 Vicosa, MG, Brazil								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000428283300005	37	Article; Article		
J	Borszcz, Fernando K.; Tramontin, Artur F.; de Souza, Kristopher M.; Carminatti, Lorival J.; Costa, Vitor P.								Physiological Correlations With Short, Medium, and Long Cycling Time-Trial Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	1			120	125		10.1080/02701367.2017.1411578			2018	2018	Purpose: Several studies have demonstrated that physiological variables predict cycling endurance performance. However, it is still unclear whether the predictors will change over different performance durations. The aim of this study was to assess the correlations between physiological variables and cycling time trials with different durations. Methods: Twenty trained male cyclists (maximal oxygen uptake [VO(2)max] = 60.5 +/- 5.6 mL/kg/min) performed 4 separate experimental trials during a 2-week period. Cyclists initially completed an incremental exercise test until volitional exhaustion followed by 3 maximal cycling time trials on separate days. Each time trial consisted of 3 different durations: 5 min, 20 min, and 60 min performed in a randomized order. Results: The main results showed that the physiological measures strongly correlated with long cycling performances rather than short and medium time trials. The time-trial mean power output was moderately high to highly correlated with peak power output and VO2max (r=.61-.87, r=.72-.89, respectively), and was moderately to highly correlated with the lactate threshold Dmax method and second ventilatory threshold (r=.52-.75, r=.55-.82, respectively). Conclusions: Therefore, trained cyclists should develop maximal aerobic power irrespective of the duration of time trial, as well as enhancements in metabolic thresholds for long-duration time trials.		[Borszcz, Fernando K.; Tramontin, Artur F.; Carminatti, Lorival J.; Costa, Vitor P.] Santa Catarina State Univ, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [de Souza, Kristopher M.] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Costa, Vitor P.] Santa Catarina State Univ, Human Performance Res Grp, Ctr Hlth & Sport Sci, Rua Pascoal Simone 358, BR-88080350 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								23							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000428283300012	32	Article; Article		
J	Fox, Jordan L.; Stanton, Robert; Scanlan, Aaron T.								A Comparison of Training and Competition Demands in Semiprofessional Male Basketball Players								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	1			103	111		10.1080/02701367.2017.1410693			2018	2018	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to quantify and compare training and competition demands in basketball. Methods: Fifteen semiprofessional male basketball players wore microsensors during physical conditioning training (PCT), games-based training (GBT), and competition to measure absolute and relative (center dot min(-1)) PlayerLoad (TM) (PL) and estimated equivalent distance (EED). Internal responses were calculated using absolute and relative session rating of perceived exertion (sRPE) and summated heart rate zones (SHRZ). Integrated measures were calculated as sRPE: PL and SHRZ: PL ratios. Results: PlayerLoad (arbitrary units [AU]) and EED (m) were statistically significantly (p<.05) higher during PCT (632 +/- 139 AU, d = 1.36; 5,964 +/- 1,312 m, d = 1.36; 6.50 +/- 0.81 AU.min(-1), d = 2.44; 61.88 +/- 7.22 m.min(-1), d = 2.60) and GBT (624 +/- 113 AU, d = 1.54; 5,892 +/- 1,080 m, d = 1.53; 6.10 +/- 0.77 AU.min(-1), d = 2.14; 56.76 +/- 6.49 m.min(-1), d = 2.22) than they were during competition (449 +/- 118 AU; 3,722 +/- 1474 m; 4.35 +/- 1.09 AU.min(-1); 41.01 +/- 10.29 m.min(-1)). Summated heart rate zones were statistically significantly (p<.05) higher during PCT (314 +/- 86 AU, d = 1.05; 3.22 +/- 0.50 AU.min(-1), d = 1.94) and GBT (334 +/- 79 AU, d = 1.38; 3.19 +/- 0.54 AU.min(-1), d = 1.83) than they were during competition (225 +/- 77 AU; 2.17 +/- 0.69 AU.min(-1)). The ratio of sRPE: PL was statistically significantly (p<.05) higher during competition (1.58 +/- 0.85) than during PCT (0.98 +/- 0.22, d = 1.44) and GBT (0.91 +/- 0.24, d = 1.90). Conclusion: Training demands exceeded competition demands.		[Fox, Jordan L.; Stanton, Robert; Scanlan, Aaron T.] Cent Queensland Univ, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Fox, Jordan L.] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Hlth Med & Appl Sci, Rockhampton, Qld 4702, Australia								118							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000428283300010	29	Article; Article		
J	Easley, Elizabeth A.; Black, W. Scott; Bailey, Alison L.; Lennie, Terry A.; Sims, Wilma J.; Clasey, Jody L.								Recovery Responses to Maximal Exercise in Healthy-Weight Children and Children With Obesity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	1			38	46		10.1080/02701367.2017.1407492			2018	2018	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to examine differences in heart rate recovery (HRRec) and oxygen consumption recovery (VO2 recovery) between young healthy-weight children and children with obesity following a maximal volitional graded exercise test (GXTmax). Method: Twenty healthy-weight children and 13 children with obesity completed body composition testing and performed a GXTmax. Immediately after the GXTmax, HRRec and VO2 recovery were measured each minute for 5 consecutive minutes. Results: There were no statistically significant group differences in HRRec for the 5 min following maximal exercise, Wilks's Lambda = .885, F(4, 28) = 0.911, p =.471, between the healthy-weight children and children with obesity despite statistically significant differences in body fat percentage (BF%; healthy-weight children, 18.5 +/- 6.1%; children with obesity, 41.1 +/- 6.9%, p < .001) and aerobic capacity relative to body mass (VO2 peak; healthy-weight children, 46.8 +/- 8.2 mL/kg/min; children with obesity, 31.9 +/- 4.7 mL/kg/min, p <.001). There were statistically significant differences in VO2 recovery for the 5 min following exercise, Wilks's Lambda = .676, F(4, 26) = 3.117, p = .032. There were no statistically significant correlations between HRRec and body mass index (BMI), BF%, VO(2)peak, or physical activity. Conclusions: In a healthy pediatric population, obesity alone does not seem to significantly impact HRRec, and because HRRec was not related to obesity status, BMI, or BF%, it should not be used as the sole indicator of aerobic capacity or health status in children. Using more than one recovery variable (i.e., HRRec and VO2 recovery) may provide greater insight into cardiorespiratory fitness in this population.		[Easley, Elizabeth A.; Black, W. Scott; Bailey, Alison L.; Lennie, Terry A.; Clasey, Jody L.] Univ Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40506 USA; [Sims, Wilma J.] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Easley, Elizabeth A.] Univ South Carolina, Lancaster, SC USA; [Bailey, Alison L.] Univ Tennessee, Coll Med Chattanooga, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Easley, Elizabeth A.] Univ South Carolina, Dept Exercise Sci, POB 889, Lancaster, SC 29721 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000428283300004	32	Article; Article		
J	Ensign, Julene; Woods, Amelia Mays; Kulinna, Pamela Hodges								Entering the Field of Physical Education: The Journey of Fifteen First-Year Teachers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				89	1			66	79		10.1080/02701367.2017.1408951			2018	2018	Purpose: Given the significant challenges facing today's physical educators, the purpose of this study was to examine the expectations of induction teachers and identify the factors in both their personal and organizational environments enhanced or constrained their assimilation into the field during their 1st year. Method: Using occupational socialization theory as a guide, data from demographic surveys and a series of formal interviews with participants at the beginning, middle, and end of the school year were inductively analyzed for theme development. Results: Results revealed positive acculturation experiences and unity regarding the purpose of physical education as preparing students to be fit for a lifetime. Barriers were noted to be family and personal crises, role conflict, isolation, marginalization, issues with classroom management and discipline, and difficulties in developing positive relationships with stakeholders. Enhancers were identified as positive interactions and rapport with students, colleagues, and administrators and favorable individual dispositions. Conclusion: Implications indicate a need for purposeful physical education teacher education training to proactively address these barriers during professional preparation as well as the creation of additional support systems for beginning teachers.		[Ensign, Julene] Judson Univ, Elgin, IL USA; [Woods, Amelia Mays] Univ Illinois, Champaign, IL USA; [Kulinna, Pamela Hodges] Arizona State Univ, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA; [Ensign, Julene] Judson Univ, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, 1151 State St, Elgin, IL 60123 USA								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000428283300007	37	Article; Article		
J	Siev-Ner, Itzhak; Stern, Myriam D.; Tenenbaum, Shay; Blankstein, Alexander; Zeev, Aviva; Steinberg, Nili								Ultrasonography findings and physical examination outcomes in dancers with and without patellofemoral pain								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			48	55		10.1080/00913847.2018.1391048			2018	2018	Objectives: To identify whether a physical examination for patello-femoral pain (PFP) is related to ultrasonography findings at the knee, and to identify possible factors related to PFP in young dancers. Methods: Sixty-seven young female dancers (7th grade, aged 12.80.5) from three schools with identical special dance programs were included in the study. All the dancers were interviewed for demographic details, dance background, and training intensity; were evaluated for anthropometric measurements; underwent physical examination of both knees for PFP and for knee range of motion (ROM); and, had ultrasonography assessment for pathologies and of anatomical parts of their knees. Results: PFP was found in 54.5% of the 134 knees physically examined. In ultrasonography assessment, infra-articular effusion was found in 46.2% of the knees examined. H/week of dance practice was significantly higher among dancers with PFP (in both knees) compared with dancers with no PFP (p < .05). Knees with PFP had a significantly higher prevalence of intra articular effusion (p = .018) and higher prevalence of genu-recurvatum (p = .042). Knees with PFP had significantly greater growth plate width-anterior tibial tuberosity (p = .022) and a greater bony trochlear groove angle (p = .048). Conclusion: This study describes the relationship between physical examination for PFP and the sonographic findings, and the factors related to knee injuries. The results showed a high prevalence of PFP and intra articular knee effusion among young dancers at the age of 12-13years; and, that the number of hours of practice and anatomical structure are related to PFP. Our results should alert physicians, physiotherapists, athletic trainers and dance teachers to the need for devising modifications of training and injury prevention strategies from a young age (<12years old).		[Siev-Ner, Itzhak] Sheba Med Ctr, Orthoped Rehabil Dept, Tel Hashomer, Israel; [Stern, Myriam D.] Tel Aviv Univ, Sackler Sch Med, Sheba Med Ctr, Dept Radiol, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Tenenbaum, Shay; Blankstein, Alexander] Tel Aviv Univ, Sackler Fac Med, Chaim Sheba Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Zeev, Aviva; Steinberg, Nili] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Wingate Coll Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Netanya, Israel; [Steinberg, Nili] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Wingate Coll Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Netanya, Israel								14							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500009	48	Article; Article		
J	Palmer, Ty B.; Agu-Udemba, Chinonye C.; Palmer, Bailey M.								Acute effects of static stretching on passive stiffness and postural balance in healthy, elderly men								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			78	86		10.1080/00913847.2018.1421396			2018	2018	Objectives: This study aimed to examine the acute effects of straight-leg raise (SLR) static stretching on passive stiffness and postural balance in healthy, elderly men. An additional aim of this study was to examine the relationships between stiffness and balance at baseline (prior to stretching) and the relationships between the stretch-induced changes in these variables. Methods: Eleven elderly men (age = 696years; height = 1777 cm; mass = 83 +/- 13kg) underwent postural balance and passive stiffness assessments before and after: 1) a stretching treatment consisting of four, 15-s SLR static stretches performed by the primary investigator and 2) a control treatment consisting of no static stretching. Passive stiffness was calculated from the slopes of the initial (phase 1) and final (phase 2) portions of the angle-torque curve. Unilateral postural balance was assessed on the right leg using a commercially designed balance testing device, which provides a measurement of static stability based on the overall stability index (OSI). Results: The slope coefficients and OSI values decreased from pre- to post-treatment for the stretching intervention (P = 0.015 and 0.018, respectively); however, there were no changes for the control (P = 0.654 and 0.920). For the stretching intervention, a significant positive relationship was observed between OSI and the slope coefficient of phase 1 at baseline (r = 0.619; P = 0.042). A significant positive relationship was also observed between the stretched-induced changes in OSI and the slope coefficient of phase 1 (r = 0.731; P = 0.011). No relationship was observed between OSI and the slope coefficient of phase 2 at baseline (r = 0.262; P = 0.437) nor was there a relationship between the changes in these variables (r = 0.419; P = 0.200). Conclusion: A short, practical bout of SLR static stretching may be an effective intervention for reducing passive stiffness and improving postural balance in healthy, elderly men.		[Palmer, Ty B.; Agu-Udemba, Chinonye C.; Palmer, Bailey M.] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Palmer, Ty B.] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA								15							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500014	48	Article; Article		
J	DeFroda, Steven F.; Shah, Kalpit N.; Safdar, Omar; Mulcahey, Mary K.								Trends in research productivity of residents applying for orthopedic sports medicine fellowship								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			61	65		10.1080/00913847.2018.1411170			2018	2018	Objectives: Though there are no research requirements to match into an orthopaedic sports medicine fellowship, many applicants are productive in research endeavors during residency. We hypothesize that the number of publications by Orthopaedic sports medicine applicants are increasing. Methods: A list of current and recent sports medicine fellows was compiled from publicly accessible information on sports medicine fellowship websites. Articles published while the fellow was a resident were identified via publicly available search engines. The following information was collected: year of fellowship and years of residency, fellowship program, geographic location of fellowship program, total number of publications (noting specifically first and last author publications), number of publications in high impact orthopaedic journals (AJSM, JBJS Am, JSES, or Arthroscopy). Results: Overall, 189 fellowship-matched surgeons from 2010 - 2017 were identified. There were 746 publications (average of 3.95 per fellow), with 218 (29.2%) in high impact orthopaedic journals. Surgeons who completed their fellowship during the 2016-17 academic year, published on average 5.42 publications per fellow. Fellowship applicants in the Northeast region had the highest number of total publications (359 publications, 48.1% of all publications; 6.41 publications per fellow). Applicants were listed most often as middle authors (462 publications, 61.9%). Conclusions: There has been an overall increase in the number of publications among sports medicine fellowship applicants in the last several academic years. Fellowship programs in the northeast United States tended to match applicants with a higher number of publications.		[DeFroda, Steven F.; Shah, Kalpit N.] Brown Univ, Warren Alpert Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Safdar, Omar] Drexel Univ, Coll Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Mulcahey, Mary K.] Tulane Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, 1430 Tulane Ave, New Orleans, LA 70112 USA; [DeFroda, Steven F.] Brown Univ, Alpert Med Sch, MEDept Orthopaed, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903 USA								20							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500011	10	Article; Article		
J	Kemler, Ellen; Romeijn, Kalynda; Vriend, Ingrid; Huisstede, Bionka								The relationship between the use of running applications and running-related injuries								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			73	77		10.1080/00913847.2018.1412812			2018	2018	Objectives: Training errors are suggested to be an important cause of running-related injuries (RRIs). As most runners train individually, digital coaching using running applications is becoming increasingly popular. However, the quality of these applications is unknown. The aim of the present cross-sectional study was to evaluate the relationship between the use of running applications and RRIs. Methods: An online questionnaire was used to collect data on running activities of 1,029 runners, their injuries, and the association between the use of running applications and RRIs. Parametric and non-parametric tests for independent samples were used to analyze the baseline characteristics of the participants. Univariate logistic regression analyses and multiple logistic regression analysis (Enter procedure) were used to determine the association between the use of running applications and RRIs, while adjusting for confounding effects. Results: Of all the 1,029 runners included in this study, 31% (n = 319) got injured and 44% (n = 453) used an application in the previous 12months. Multiple logistic regression analysis showed no statistically significant association between the use of running applications and RRIs. Conclusions: Based on this study, the use of running applications was not associated with an increased or decreased risk of RRIs. Running applications can be used by runners without any further implications to guide their training activities. However, runners should be aware that the use of predefined running schemes is associated with RRI risk. It is important that following a previous RRI, athletes should be fully recovered before resuming their training sessions as hindrance from a previous RRI is highly associated with the occurrence of a new RRI.		[Kemler, Ellen; Vriend, Ingrid] Dutch Consumer Safety Inst VeiligheidNL, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Romeijn, Kalynda; Huisstede, Bionka] Univ Utrecht, Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Rudolf Magnus Inst Neurosci, Dept Rehabil Phys Therapy Sci & Sports, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Kemler, Ellen] VeiligheidNL, POB 75169, NL-1070 AD Amsterdam, Netherlands								12							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500013	20	Article; Article		
J	Nadarajah, Vidushan; Jauregui, Julio J.; Perfetti, Dean; Shasti, Mark; Koh, Eugene Y.; Henn, Ralph Frank, III								What are the trends and demographics in sports-related pediatric spinal cord injuries?								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			8	13		10.1080/00913847.2018.1408384			2018	2018	Objectives: Pediatric spinal cord injury (PSCI) is a devastating injury that can cause significant long-term consequences. The purpose of this study is to calculate and report the prevalence of PSCI, identify risk factors for sports-related PSCI, and evaluate associated factors. Methods: The data sets of the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (HCUP) Kids' Inpatient Database (KID) from 2000-2012 were analyzed using ICD-9-CM external cause of injury codes to identify the mechanism of injury contributing to PSCI hospitalization. We then extracted demographic data on each admission including age, gender, race, and year of admission. We further stratified the data by sports-related cases of injury. Multivariate logistic regression analyses were used to identify independent risk factors. Results: Of our study population, 0.8% had a documented diagnosis of spinal cord injury (SCI). The most common documented external cause of injury code was motor vehicle accidents, representing roughly half of all cases in patients 0-9years-old (p=0.001). PSCI due to sports as an external cause of injury was more prevalent in patients 10-17years old, and was especially prevalent in the 10-13year-old age category in which sports-related PSCI reached a high of 25.6%. Risk factors for traumatic PSCI after a sports-related external cause included being of older age, male, and white. Conclusions: The prevalence of SCI increased with age. Given the popularity of youth sports in the United States, parents and sports officials should be aware of the increased risk of sports-related PSCI among patients 10-17years old.Level of evidence: Level III, retrospective cohort study		[Nadarajah, Vidushan; Jauregui, Julio J.; Shasti, Mark; Koh, Eugene Y.; Henn, Ralph Frank, III] Univ Maryland, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed, Baltimore, MD 21207 USA; [Perfetti, Dean] Hofstra Northwell Hlth, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Hempstead, NY USA; [Henn, Ralph Frank, III] Univ Maryland, Rehabil & Orthopaed Inst, Dept Orthopaed, 2200 Kernan Dr, Baltimore, MD 21207 USA								13							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500002	34	Article; Article		
J	Machado, Felipe; Debieux, Pedro; Kaleka, Camila Cohen; Astur, Diego; Peccin, Maria Stella; Cohen, Moises								Knee isokinetic performance following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: patellar tendon versus hamstrings graft								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				46	1			30	35		10.1080/00913847.2018.1418592			2018	2018	Objective: To compare knee isokinetic performance six months after reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament using grafts from either the patellar tendon or the hamstrings among patients who underwent the same rehabilitation protocol. Methods: Thirty-four patients were evaluated (17 with grafts from the patellar tendon and 17 with grafts from the hamstrings). Operated and non-operated knees were compared with regards to the variables of peak torque, work and the hamstring/quadriceps relationship at velocities of 60 degrees/s and 180 degrees/s and power of 180 degrees/s after six months of surgery. Results: The patients with ACL reconstruction using the patellar tendon (BPTB) showed quadriceps deficits for all variables, but the flexor musculature was balanced. In the hamstring group, both the extensors and the flexors showed deficits for the variables analyzed, except for hamstring power at 180 degrees/s. Conclusion: Patients in the patellar tendon group had a greater quadriceps deficit compared with those in the hamstrings group. Patients in the hamstrings group had a greater muscular deficit in the flexor mechanism compared with the contralateral knee. An unbalanced H/Q ratio was observed regardless of graft type, but this was more evident in the BPTB group.		[Machado, Felipe] Univ Fed Sao Paulo Unifesp, Orthoped Dept, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Debieux, Pedro] Univ Fed Sao Paulo Unifesp, Knee Surg & Arthroscopy Grp, Hosp Israelita Albert Einstein, Beneficencia Portuguesa, 475 Capital Fed,St Sumare, BR-01259010 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Kaleka, Camila Cohen] Inst Cohen, Beneficencia Portuguesa, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Astur, Diego] Univ Fed Sao Paulo Unifesp, Knee Surg & Arthroscopy Grp, Beneficencia Portuguesa, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Peccin, Maria Stella] Univ Fed Sao Paulo Unifesp, Hlth Sci Dept, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Cohen, Moises] Univ Fed Sao Paulo Unifesp, Orthoped Dept, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Debieux, Pedro] Univ Fed Sao Paulo Unifesp, Knee Surg & Arthroscopy Grp, Hosp Israelita Albert Einstein, Beneficencia Portuguesa, 475 Capital Fed,St Sumare, BR-01259010 Sao Paulo, Brazil								22							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423678500006	36	Article; Article		
J	McLaine, Sally J.; Ginn, Karen A.; Fell, James W.; Bird, Marie-Louise								Scapular upward rotation position is symmetrical in swimmers without current shoulder pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				9	13		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.09.003			JAN 2018	2018	Objectives: A history of shoulder pain is common in swimmers and may influence scapular position, possibly increasing the risk of shoulder pain recurring. The aim of this study was to establish and compare bilateral static measures of scapular upward rotation in swimmers (14-20 years), some with a history of shoulder pain but all currently pain free, in two different elevated positions of shoulder abduction. Design: Cross-sectional, observational study. Participants: Eighty-five swimmers without current shoulder pain. Methods: Scapular upward rotation position was measured on both shoulders using a digital inclinometer in 90 and 140 shoulder abduction. Descriptive statistics were calculated for degrees of scapular upward rotation in both shoulder positions. Differences between shoulders (dominant, non dominant, history and no history of pain) were explored using one-way ANOVA and paired t tests. Results: A large range of values for scapular upward rotation was found at both positions of shoulder abduction brit there were no significant differences between the shoulders: with and without a history of shoulder pain for the dominant and non-dominant sides. Conclusions: A history of shoulder pain and arm dominance did not influence scapular upward rotation position when measured in shoulder abduction in swimmers without current shoulder pain. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[McLaine, Sally J.; Fell, James W.; Bird, Marie-Louise] Univ Tasmania, Sch Hlth Sci, Locked Bag 1320, Launceston, Tas 7250, Australia; [Ginn, Karen A.] Univ Sydney, Sydney Med Sch, Discipline Biomed Sci, Edward Ford Bldg, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia; [Bird, Marie-Louise] Univ British Columbia, Dept Phys Therapy, Fac Med, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [McLaine, Sally J.] Univ Tasmania, Sch Hlth Sci, Locked Bag 1320, Launceston, Tas 7250, Australia								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600002	19	Article; Article		
J	Dingenen, Bart; Staes, Filip F.; Santermans, Lieselot; Steurs, Lien; Eerdekens, Maarten; Geentjens, Jurre; Peers, Koen H. E.; Thysen, Maarten; Deschamps, Kevin								Are two-dimensional measured frontal plane angles related to three-dimensional measured kinematic profiles during running?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				84	92		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.02.001			JAN 2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate the temporal relationship between two-dimensional measured frontal plane joint angles and three-dimensional measured kinematic profiles during the stance phase of running,, and to assess the intra- and intertester reliability of the two-dimensional angles. Design: Observational study. Setting: Research laboratory. Participants: Fifteen injury-free elite athletes. Main outcome measures: Contralateral pelvic drop (CPD), femoral adduction (FA), hip adduction (HA) and knee valgus (IN) were measured at the deepest landing position during midstance with two-dimensional video analysis during running. CPD, HA and knee abduction were measured continuously during the entire stance phase through three-dimensional motion analysis. One-dimensional statistical parametric mapping was used to examine the temporal relationships between the two-dimensional angles and three-dimensional kinematic profiles. In addition, intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) were calculated to assess the intra- and intertester reliability of the two-dimensional angles. Results: Two-dimensional CPD, FA and HA were significantly related to the three-dimensional HA kinematic profile. Two-dimensional CPD was significantly related to the three-dimensional CPD kinematic profile. No significant relationship was found between two-dimensional KV and three-dimensional knee abduction. Excellent intra- and intertester reliability was found for the two-dimensional angles (ICC 0.90-0.99). Conclusions: These findings support implementing two-dimensional video analysis to evaluate CPD and HA during running. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dingenen, Bart; Staes, Filip F.; Santermans, Lieselot; Steurs, Lien; Eerdekens, Maarten; Geentjens, Jurre; Deschamps, Kevin] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Musculoskeletal Rehabil Res Grp, Dept Rehabil Sci, Fac Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Tervuursevest 101 b1501, B-3001 Heverlee, Belgium; [Peers, Koen H. E.; Thysen, Maarten] Univ Hosp Leuven, Phys Med & Rehabil, Campus Pellenberg,Weligerveld 1, B-3212 Pellenberg, Belgium; [Dingenen, Bart] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Musculoskeletal Rehabil Res Grp, Dept Rehabil Sci, Fac Kinesiol & Rehabil Sci, Tervuursevest 101 b1501, B-3001 Heverlee, Belgium								44							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600012	46	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Szu-Ping; Bailey, Joshua P.; Smith, Jo Armour; Barton, Stephanie; Brown, David; Joyce, Talia								Adaptations of lumbar biomechanics after four weeks of running training with minimalist footwear and technique guidance: Implications for running-related lower back pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				101	107		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.11.004			JAN 2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate the changes in lumbar kinematic and paraspinal muscle activation before, during, and after a 4-week minimalist running training. Design: Prospective cohort study. Setting: University research laboratory. Participants: Seventeen habitually shod recreational runners who run 10-50 km per week. Main outcome measures: During stance phases of running, sagittal lumbar kinematics was recorded using an electrogoniometer, and activities of the lumbar paraspinal muscles were assessed by electromyography. Runners were asked to run at a prescribed speed (3.1 m/s) and a self-selected speed. Results: For the 3.1 m/s running speed, significant differences were found in the calculated mean lumbar posture (p = 0.001) during the stance phase, including a more extended lumbar posture after minimalist running training. A significant reduction in the contralateral lumbar paraspinal muscle activation was also observed (p = 0.039). For the preferred running speed, similar findings of a more extended lumbar posture (p = 0.002) and a reduction in contralateral lumbar paraspinal muscle activation (p = 0.047) were observed. Conclusion: A 4-week minimalist running training program produced significant changes in lumbar biomechanics during running. Specifically, runners adopted a more extended lumbar posture and reduced lumbar paraspinal muscle activation. These findings may have clinical implications for treating individuals with running-related lower back pain. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Lee, Szu-Ping; Barton, Stephanie; Brown, David; Joyce, Talia] Univ Nevada, Dept Phys Therapy, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy,Box 453029, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Bailey, Joshua P.] Univ Nevada, Dept Kinesiol & Nutr Sci, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy,Box 453029, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA; [Smith, Jo Armour] Chapman Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Orange, CA USA; [Lee, Szu-Ping] Univ Nevada, Dept Phys Therapy, 4505 S Maryland Pkwy,Box 453029, Las Vegas, NV 89154 USA								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600014	40	Article; Article		
J	Macznik, Aleksandra Katarzyna; Schneiders, Anthony Gerard; Athens, Josie; Sullivan, Stephen John								The development of an instructional video for the teaching of acupressure for pain management in acute musculoskeletal injuries: A knowledge translation study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				34	42		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.10.005			JAN 2018	2018	Objectives: To survey potential stakeholders to obtain information relevant to the production of a video on teaching acupressure for sports injury management, and gain feedback from potential users on the prototype video. Design: Focus groups and online survey methods nested within a knowledge translation framework. Participants: Four focus groups (n = 24) were conducted, two with sports medics and two with sports physiotherapists as a part of the development of a prototype video. Nineteen stakeholders viewed the prototype video and participated in the subsequent online survey. Main outcome measures: Focus groups' transcripts were analysed to develop themes using a general inductive approach. Survey data analysis incorporated quantitative and qualitative analysis. Results: Three key themes concerning the design of the video emerged from the focus groups: 1) the recommendation for both demonstration and verbal instructions on the acupressure technique; 2) keeping the content of the video to a minimum; and 3) the need for professionalism in the production of the video, and highlighting the presenter's expertise and qualifications. The survey participants found the video to be clear and professional. Conclusions: Collectively these studies described the development and assessment of a user-oriented instructional video on teaching of acupressure for the management of sports injuries. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Macznik, Aleksandra Katarzyna; Sullivan, Stephen John] Univ Otago, Sch Physiotherapy, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, 325 Great King St, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand; [Schneiders, Anthony Gerard] Cent Queensland Univ, Sch Human Hlth & Social Sci, Rockhampton, Qld, Australia; [Athens, Josie] Univ Otago, Dept Prevent & Social Med, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Macznik, Aleksandra Katarzyna] Univ Otago, Sch Physiotherapy, Ctr Hlth Act & Rehabil Res, 325 Great King St, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600006	50	Article; Article		
J	Barton, C. J.								Managing RISK when treating the injured runner with running retraining, load management and exercise therapy								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				79	83		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.10.002			JAN 2018	2018			[Barton, C. J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Barton, C. J.] Complete Sports Care, Hawthorn, Vic, Australia; [Barton, C. J.] Queen Mary Univ London, Ctr Sport & Exercise Med, London, England; [Barton, C. J.] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia								15							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600011	41	Article; Article		
J	Esculier, Jean-Francois; Silvini, Thomas; Bouyer, Laurent J.; Roy, Jean-Sebastien								Video-based assessment of foot strike pattern and step rate is valid and reliable in runners with patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				108	112		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.11.003			JAN 2018	2018	Objectives: To evaluate, during treadmill running in runners with patellofemoral pain (PFP), the concurrent validity of determining foot strike pattern using 2D video and the intra- and inter-rater reliability of foot strike pattern and step rate assessments between a novice and experienced observer. Design: Methodological study (validity/reliability). Setting: Motion analysis laboratory. Participants: Sixty runners with PFP (37 females, 23 males; age = 30.8 +/- 6.5 years; height = 169.8 +/- 9.1 cm; weight = 66.6 +/- 12.9 kg). Main outcome measures: Running kinematics were recorded using 3D motion capture and a sagittal view 2D video camera. Concurrent validity, intra-, and inter-rater reliability of foot strike pattern determination (Gwet AC statistics), and reliability of step rate calculation (Intraclass correlation coefficients, ICC) were assessed. Results: For foot strike pattern, agreement between the 3D motion analysis system and 2D video assessment was high for both raters (AC = 0.906-0.936, P < 0.001). Excellent intra (AC = 0.961-1.000, ICC = 0.984-0.998, respectively) and inter-rater reliability (AC = 0.929-0.970, ICC = 0.980, respectively) was obtained for foot strike pattern and step rate. Conclusions: Video-based evaluation of foot strike pattern and step rate of runners with PFP is valid and highly reliable when performed by a novice or experienced assessor. Therefore, clinicians and researchers can use such methods confidently to guide their gait retraining interventions for runners with PFP. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Esculier, Jean-Francois; Bouyer, Laurent J.; Roy, Jean-Sebastien] Laval Univ, Fac Med, 1050 Ave Med, Quebec City, PQ G1V 0A6, Canada; [Esculier, Jean-Francois; Silvini, Thomas; Bouyer, Laurent J.; Roy, Jean-Sebastien] Quebec Rehabil Inst, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil & Social Integr, 525 Blvd Wilfrid Hamel, Quebec City, PQ G1M 2S8, Canada; [Esculier, Jean-Francois] Running Clin, CP 1075, Quebec City, PQ G3B 2J8, Canada; [Roy, Jean-Sebastien] Quebec Rehabil Inst, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil & Social Integr, 525 Blvd Wilfrid Hamel, Quebec City, PQ G1M 2S8, Canada								46							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600015	23	Article; Article		
J	Wollin, Martin; Thorborg, Kristian; Pizzari, Tania								Monitoring the effect of football match congestion on hamstring strength and lower limb flexibility: Potential for secondary injury prevention?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				14	18		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.09.001			JAN 2018	2018	Objectives: To investigate the effect of competitive football match congestion on hamstring strength and lower limb flexibility. Design: Repeated measures. Setting: Elite male youth football. Participants: Fifteen male elite youth football players from the national football association centre of excellence were included (age = 15.81 +/- 0.65 years, height = 171.95 +/- 6.89 cm, weight = 65.93 +/- 7.53 kg). Main outcome measures: Hamstring strength and pain, ankle dorsiflexion, hip extension, knee extension and flexion range of motion. Results: Hamstring strength was highest at baseline and significantly reduced at 24 (p = 0.001, mean difference 0.19 Nm/Kg, CI95 -0.28, -0.1) and 48 h post-match 1 (p = 0.002, mean difference -0.16 Nm/Kg, CI95 -0.25, -0.07). Strength recovered by match day 2 before significantly reducing again 24 h post match 2 (p = 0.012, mean difference 0.17 Nm/Kg, CI95 -0.29, -0.04). Pain was lowest at baseline and increased in the post -match periods (p < 0.05) with standardised effect sizes ranging from 0.07 to 0.42. Passive knee flexion range decreased post-match (p < 0.01) with mean differences of 1.5 degrees-2.7 degrees The other flexibility measures remained unaffected by match play. Conclusion: Isometric hamstring strength and pain can be considered for inclusion in-season to monitor player's post-match hamstring recovery characteristics during congested match fixtures. Crown Copyright (C) 2017 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Wollin, Martin] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Phys Therapies, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia; [Wollin, Martin; Pizzari, Tania] La Trobe Univ, La Trobe Sport & Exercise Med Res Ctr, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Thorborg, Kristian] Univ Copenhagen, Fac Hlth Sci, Amager Hvidovre Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg,Sports Orthopaed Res Ctr SORC, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Thorborg, Kristian] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Amager Hvidovre Hosp, PMR C, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Wollin, Martin] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Phys Therapies, Leverrier St, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia								32							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600003	33	Article; Article		
J	Schwab, Laura M.; Blanch, Peter; Young, Mark								Autologous tenocyte implantation into shoulder tendon pathology in an elite swimmer								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				29				19	25		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.10.004			JAN 2018	2018	Introduction: The use of novel bioengineer treatment techniques such as Autologous Tenocyte Implantation (ATI) have shown promising improvements in both pain ratings and functional outcomes in elbow, gluteal and shoulder tendon pathology. This case will review the injury timeline of ATI intervention in an elite male swimmer with subscapularis tendon pathology and investigate whether ATI has a concomitant healing effect associated with improved functional outcomes. Methods: A palmaris longus tendon biopsy was performed and cells were expanded by in-vitro culture. Autologous tenocytes were injected into the subscapularis site identified. Three blinded radiologists reported on pre and post shoulder MRIs using the same 3T MRI protocol. A validated rating scale for severity of tendinopathy (0-3) and degree of tear (0-3) was used and hand-held Dynamometry (HHD) strength was recorded. Results: Independent blinded radiology review demonstrated a significant reduction in tear size and improved tendon morphology. IR strength on HHD returned to baseline strength levels post ATI (231-253N) 6 weeks post intervention. The athlete returned to full training (volume and intensity) pain free and international level competition at 4 months post An. Conclusion: An athlete who had previously undergone unsuccessful conservative management demonstrated significant improvement in function and in tendon morphology post intervention. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Schwab, Laura M.] Australian Catholic Univ, Ctr Musculoskeletal Res, Mary MacKillop Inst Hlth Res, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Blanch, Peter] Brisbane Lions Football Club, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Young, Mark] Qsports Med, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [Schwab, Laura M.] Mary MacKillop Inst Hlth Res, Ctr Musculoskeletal Res, Level 1,631 Stanley St, Woolloongabba, Qld 4102, Australia								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000424722600004	28	Article; Article		
J	Stephenson, Mitchell L.; Hinshaw, Taylour J.; Wadley, Haley A.; Zhu, Qin; Wilson, Margaret A.; Byra, Mark; Dai, Boyi								Effects of timing of signal indicating jump directions on knee biomechanics in jump-landing-jump tasks								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	1			67	82		10.1080/14763141.2017.1346141			2018	2018	A variety of the available time to react (ATR) has been utilised to study knee biomechanics during reactive jump-landing tasks. The purpose was to quantify knee kinematics and kinetics during a jump-land-jump task of three possible directions as the ATR was reduced. Thirty-four recreational athletes performed 45 trials of a jump-land-jump task, during which the direction of the second jump (lateral, medial or vertical) was indicated before they initiated the first jump, the instant they initiated the first jump, 300 ms before landing, 150 ms before landing or at the instant of landing. Knee joint angles and moments close to the instant of landing were significantly different when the ATR was equal to or more than 300 ms before landing, but became similar when the ATR was 150 ms or 0 ms before landing. As the ATR was decreased, knee moments decreased for the medial jump direction, but increased for the lateral jump direction. When the ATR is shorter than an individual's reaction time, the movement pattern cannot be pre-planned before landing. Knee biomechanics are dependent on the timing of the signal and the subsequent jump direction. Precise control of timing and screening athletes with low ATR are suggested.		[Stephenson, Mitchell L.] Iowa State Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Ames, IA 50011 USA; [Hinshaw, Taylour J.; Wadley, Haley A.; Zhu, Qin; Byra, Mark; Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Wilson, Margaret A.] Univ Wyoming, Dept Theatre & Dance, Laramie, WY 82071 USA; [Dai, Boyi] Univ Wyoming, Div Kinesiol & Hlth, Laramie, WY 82071 USA								31							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423880500005	52	Article; Article		
J	Patrick, Kyle; Donovan, Luke								Test-retest reliability of the Tekscan® F-Scan® 7 in-shoe plantar pressure system during treadmill walking in healthy recreationally active individuals								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	1			83	97		10.1080/14763141.2017.1355010			2018	2018	In-shoe plantar pressure systems are commonly used in clinical and research settings to assess foot function during functional tasks. Recently, Tekscan (R) has updated their F-Scan (R) in-shoe plantar pressure system; however, this system's test-retest reliability has not been established. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine the test-retest reliability of the F-Scan (R) 7 system in recreationally active individuals during treadmill walking. Seventeen healthy adults completed 2 sessions of treadmill walking. For each session, participants were fitted for shoes and pressure insoles and walked on a treadmill at a self-selected pace for 30 s. Following the sessions, the test-retest reliability peak pressure, pressure time integral, average pressure and pressure contact area over 4 regions of the foot (heel, mid-foot, forefoot and toes) was assessed by calculating intraclass coefficients (ICC 2,k) and coefficient of variation percentage (CoV%). Pressure contact area consistently had the highest ICCs and lowest CoV% (ICCs: 0.91-0.98; CoV%: 2.7-7.8%). Whereas, the forefoot and toe regions had the highest ICCs for all 4 measures (ICCs: 0.83-0.98; CoV%: 3.1-13.4%). During treadmill walking in healthy recreationally active individuals, the reliability of the new Tekscan F-Scan (R) ranged from poor to high and was dependent on the measure and region of the foot.		[Patrick, Kyle] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, 2801 W Bancroft St, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Donovan, Luke] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Dept Kinesiol, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA; [Donovan, Luke] Univ North Carolina Charlotte, Dept Kinesiol, Coll Hlth & Human Serv, Charlotte, NC 28223 USA								29							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423880500006	41	Article; Article		
J	Takabayashi, Tomoya; Edama, Mutsuaki; Yokoyama, Erika; Kanaya, Chiaki; Kubo, Masayoshi								Quantifying coordination among the rearfoot, midfoot, and forefoot segments during running								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	1			18	32		10.1080/14763141.2016.1271447			2018	2018	Because previous studies have suggested that there is a relationship between injury risk and inter-segment coordination, quantifying coordination between the segments is essential. Even though the midfoot and forefoot segments play important roles in dynamic tasks, previous studies have mostly focused on coordination between the shank and rearfoot segments. This study aimed to quantify coordination among rearfoot, midfoot, and forefoot segments during running. Eleven healthy young men ran on a treadmill. The coupling angle, representing inter-segment coordination, was calculated using a modified vector coding technique. The coupling angle was categorised into four coordination patterns. During the absorption phase, rearfoot-midfoot coordination in the frontal planes was mostly in-phase (rearfoot and midfoot eversion with similar amplitudes). The present study found thatthe eversion of the midfoot with respect to the rearfoot was comparable in magnitude to the eversion of the rearfoot with respect to the shank. A previous study has suggested that disruption of the coordination between the internal rotation of the shank and eversion of the rearfoot leads to running injuries such as anterior knee pain. Thus, these data might be used in the future to compare to individuals with foot deformities or running injuries.		[Takabayashi, Tomoya; Edama, Mutsuaki; Yokoyama, Erika; Kanaya, Chiaki; Kubo, Masayoshi] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan; [Takabayashi, Tomoya] Niigata Univ Hlth & Welf, Inst Human Movement & Med Sci, Niigata, Japan								17							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423880500002	43	Article; Article		
J	Howard, Roisin M.; Conway, Richard; Harrison, Andrew J.								Muscle activity in sprinting: a review								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	1			1	17		10.1080/14763141.2016.1252790			2018	2018	The use of electromyography (EMG) is widely recognised as a valuable tool for enhancing the understanding of performance drivers and potential injury risk in sprinting. The timings of muscle activations relative to running gait cycle phases and the technology used to obtain muscle activation data during sprinting are of particular interest to scientists and coaches. This review examined the main muscles being analysed by surface EMG (sEMG), their activations and timing, and the technologies used to gather sEMG during sprinting. Electronic databases were searched using 'Electromyography' OR 'EMG' AND 'running' OR sprinting'. Based on inclusion criteria, 18 articles were selected for review. While sEMG is widely used in biomechanics, relatively few studies have used sEMG in sprinting due to system constraints. The results demonstrated a focus on the leg muscles, with over 70% of the muscles analysed in the upper leg. This is consistent with the use of tethered and data logging EMG systems and many sprints being performed on treadmills. Through the recent advances in wireless EMG technology, an increase in the studies on high velocity movements such as sprinting is expected and this should allow practitioners to perform the analysis in an ecologically valid environment.		[Howard, Roisin M.; Conway, Richard] Univ Limerick, Dept Elect & Comp Engn, Limerick, Ireland; [Howard, Roisin M.; Harrison, Andrew J.] Univ Limerick, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland; [Howard, Roisin M.] Univ Limerick, Dept Elect & Comp Engn, Limerick, Ireland; [Howard, Roisin M.] Univ Limerick, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland								71							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423880500001	30	Article; Article		
J	Tierney, Gregory J.; Joodaki, Hamed; Krosshaug, Tron; Forman, Jason L.; Crandall, Jeff R.; Simms, Ciaran K.								Assessment of model-based image-matching for future reconstruction of unhelmeted sport head impact kinematics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	1			33	47		10.1080/14763141.2016.1271905			2018	2018	Player-to-player contact inherent in many unhelmeted sports means that head impacts are a frequent occurrence. Model-Based Image-Matching (MBIM) provides a technique for the assessment of three-dimensional linear and rotational motion patterns from multiple camera views of a head impact event, but the accuracy is unknown for this application. The goal of this study is to assess the accuracy of the MBIM method relative to reflective marker-based motion analysis data for estimating six degree of freedom head displacements and velocities in a staged pedestrian impact scenario at 40 km/h. Results showed RMS error was under 20 mm for all linear head displacements and 0.01-0.04 rad for head rotations. For velocities, the MBIM method yielded RMS errors between 0.42 and 1.29 m/s for head linear velocities and 3.53-5.38 rad/s for angular velocities. This method is thus beneficial as a tool to directly measure six degree of freedom head positional data from video of sporting head impacts, but velocity data is less reliable. MBIM data, combined in future with velocity/acceleration data from wearable sensors could be used to provide input conditions and evaluate the outputs of multibody and finite element head models for brain injury assessment of sporting head impacts.		[Tierney, Gregory J.; Simms, Ciaran K.] Trinity Coll Dublin, Dept Mech & Mfg Engn, Trinity Ctr Bioengn, Dublin, Ireland; [Joodaki, Hamed; Forman, Jason L.; Crandall, Jeff R.] Univ Virginia, Ctr Appl Biomech, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Krosshaug, Tron] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Oslo, Norway; [Tierney, Gregory J.] Trinity Coll Dublin, Dept Mech & Mfg Engn, Trinity Ctr Bioengn, Dublin, Ireland								16							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423880500003	37	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Haff, G. Gregory; Padial, Paulino; Feriche, Belen								Reliability of power and velocity variables collected during the traditional and ballistic bench press exercise								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	1			117	130		10.1080/14763141.2016.1260767			2018	2018	This study aimed to examine the reliability of different power and velocity variables during the Smith machine bench press (BP) and bench press throw (BPT) exercises. Twenty-two healthy men conducted four testing sessions after a preliminary BP one-repetition maximum (1RM) test. In a counterbalanced order, participants performed two sessions of BP in one week and two sessions of BPT in another week. Mean propulsive power, peak power, mean propulsive velocity, and peak velocity at each tenth percentile (20-70% of 1RM) were recorded by a linear transducer. The within-participants coefficient of variation (CV) was higher for the load-power relationship compared to the load-velocity relationship in both the BP (5.3% vs. 4.1%; CV ratio = 1.29) and BPT (4.7% vs. 3.4%; CV ratio = 1.38). Mean propulsive variables showed lower reliability than peak variables in both the BP (5.4% vs. 4.0%, CV ratio = 1.35) and BPT (4.8% vs. 3.3%, CV ratio = 1.45). All variables were deemed reliable, with the peak velocity demonstrating the lowest within-participants CV. Based upon these findings, the peak velocity should be chosen for the accurate assessment of BP and BPT performance.		[Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Padial, Paulino; Feriche, Belen] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain								42							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000423880500008	38	Article; Article		
J	Nagy, Lindsey D.; Dale, Donald J.; Gryc, William E.								Refinements to the MLB-NPB Posting System: A Clear Win for Japanese Players and Loss for Japanese Teams								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				19	1			113	152		10.1177/1527002515609961			JAN 2018	2018	We theoretically and experimentally analyze recent changes in the posting system used by Japan's Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) organization and the U.S. Major League Baseball (MLB) organization to transfer the rights of NPB players from NPB teams to MLB teams. Under the old systema sequential, first-price sealed-bid auction among MLB teams for player negotiation exclusivity rightsthe NPB team enjoyed considerable surplus from lucrative posting fees. We predict that the revised systeman English auction with an entry feewill transfer most of the NPB's middleman benefits (posting fees) to the players through higher salaries. Additionally, we analyze a third, proposed but not adopted, mechanisma weighted-average sealed-bid auction. Our experimental results confirm our theoretical predictions. Furthermore, under the new system, efficiency is greatest, MLB teams spend less on Japanese players, and the players' salaries increase significantly.		[Nagy, Lindsey D.] Muhlenberg Coll, Econ, Allentown, PA 18104 USA; [Gryc, William E.] Muhlenberg Coll, Math, Allentown, PA 18104 USA; [Dale, Donald J.] Northwestern Univ, Kellogg Sch Management, Managerial Econ & Decis Sci, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Nagy, Lindsey D.] Muhlenberg Coll, 2400 Chew St, Allentown, PA 18104 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000416559100005	22	Article; Article		
J	Maas, Ellen; De Bie, Jorien; Vanfleteren, Riet; Hoogkamer, Wouter; Vanwanseele, Benedicte								Novice runners show greater changes in kinematics with fatigue compared with competitive runners								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				17	3			350	360		10.1080/14763141.2017.1347193			2018	2018	Fatigue, developed over the course of a run, may cause changes in running kinematics. Training status may influence the effect of fatigue on running kinematics, since well trained, competitive runners are used to running until exhaustion, whereas novice runners are not. This study aimed to determine changes in running kinematics during an exhaustive run in both novice (NOVICE) and competitive (COMP) long-distance runners. About 15 NOVICE and 15 COMP runners performed a treadmill run, until voluntary exhaustion at 3,200 m time trial pace. Joint angles and global trunk and pelvis angles were recorded at the beginning and at the end of the run. In both groups, peak pelvic anterior tilt, pelvic rotation range of motion (both during stance phase) and ankle plantar flexion during swing phase increased after the exhaustive run. There was a significant interaction effect between group and exhaustion for peak forward trunk lean, which increased only in the NOVICE group, and for hip abduction during mid-swing, which increased in NOVICE and decreased in COMP runners. In conclusion, NOVICE runners showed larger kinematic adjustments when exhausted than COMP runners. This may affect their running performance and should be taken into account when assessing a runner's injury risk.		[Maas, Ellen; De Bie, Jorien; Vanfleteren, Riet; Vanwanseele, Benedicte] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Kinesiol, Leuven, Belgium; [Hoogkamer, Wouter] Univ Colorado, Dept Integrat Physiol, Boulder, CO USA; [Maas, Ellen] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Kinesiol, Leuven, Belgium								70							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000439911900007	23	Article; Article		
J	Kroell, Jordan; Mike, Jonathan								Exploring the Standing Barbell Overhead Press								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	6			70	75		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000324			DEC 2017	2017	The purpose of this column is to explore the standing barbell overhead press (sbohp) in terms of its execution, musculature involved, potential benefits, practical applications, and its evolution. The sbohp is among the most elementary tests of upper body and overhead strength. because of its removal as a contested barbell lift, general emphasis on the movement has declined slightly, but it is still widely implemented in a plethora of settings from recreational and professional sports performance to utility in rehabilitation.		[Kroell, Jordan] Lindenwood Univ, Human Performance, St Charles, MO USA; [Mike, Jonathan] Univ Southern Mississippi, Sch Kinesiol, Hattiesburg, MS 39406 USA; [Mike, Jonathan] Univ Southern Mississippi, Sch Kinesiol, Hattiesburg, MS 39406 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000423295700007	21	Article; Article		
J	Kozub, Francis M.; Reed, Joshua D.								Preparing Athletes With Intellectual Disabilities for Powerlifting Meets								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	6			76	83		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000344			DEC 2017	2017	Powerlifting is a popular leisure activity and an international sport for elite lifters from all backgrounds. This includes athletes with intellectual disabilities (id) who participate in segregated regional, state, national, and international special olympics powerlifting events. Furthermore, integrated formats supported by various state powerlifting organizations are also open to trained powerlifters with id. To assist coaches training lifters with unique needs, this article provides evidence-based practices from adapted physical education. The recommended training includes combining task analysis, prompting, and partial participation with a specific focus on safe and successful meet preparation for lifters with id. For a video abstract of this article, supplemental digital content 1 (see video, http://links.lww.com/scj/a219) can be referred.		[Kozub, Francis M.; Reed, Joshua D.] SUNY Coll Brockport, Dept Kinesiol Sport Studies & Phys Educ, Brockport, NY 14420 USA; [Kozub, Francis M.] SUNY Coll Brockport, Dept Kinesiol Sport Studies & Phys Educ, Brockport, NY 14420 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000423295700008	14	Article; Article		
J	Cushion, Emily; Howe, Louis; Read, Paul; Spence, Adam								A Process for Error Correction for Strength and Conditioning Coaches								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	6			84	92		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000338			DEC 2017	2017	There are several skill acquisition strategies available to coaches when correcting a movement error. However, it is not always clear which strategies should be used for a situation and in what order. This article aims to provide coaches with a logical evidence-based process to assist their coaching practice. In addition to a proposed model of error correction, examples are provided for several commonly occurring situations in strength and conditioning practice.		[Cushion, Emily] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Howe, Louis] Univ Cumbria, Dept Med & Sport Sci, Carlisle, Cumbria, England; [Read, Paul] Aspetar, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Cushion, Emily] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000423295700009	49	Article; Article		
J	Bishop, Chris; Turner, Anthony								Integrated Approach to Correcting the High-Bar Back Squat From "Excessive Forward Leaning"								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	6			46	53		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000337			DEC 2017	2017	The high-bar back squat is often considered a cornerstone in an athlete's physical training program because of its capacity to enhance lower-body strength development. However, movement compensations are common with many exhibiting an "excessive forward lean" during their technique. This article aims to outline the potential reasons for this compensation. Furthermore, possible solutions that coaches could consider to address excessive forward lean and optimize high-bar back squat technique have been offered.		[Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Turner, Anthony] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, Postgrad Programmes Sport, London, England; [Bishop, Chris] Middlesex Univ, London Sport Inst, London, England								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000423295700004	40	Article; Article		
J	Milanovic, Zoran; Sporis, Goran; James, Nic; Trajkovic, Nebojsa; Ignjatovic, Aleksandar; Sarmento, Hugo; Trecroci, Athos; Borges Mendes, Bruno Miguel								Physiological Demands, Morphological Characteristics, Physical Abilities and Injuries of Female Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			77	83		10.1515/hukin-2017-0091			DEC 2017	2017	The popularity of female soccer is increasing as well as the number of females playing soccer. Similarly, over the last twenty or so years, research in soccer has increased significantly, but a large disparity exists in the volume of studies involving male and female players. As a consequence of this, female players remain less well understood compared to males. The purpose of the present narrative review was to describe morphological characteristics, physiological demands, physical abilities and injuries in female soccer players. Physiological demands are similar between men's and women's soccer, but competitive women's matches were characterized by nearly 33% less distance covered, although at higher intensity levels (maximum speeds greater than 15 km/h) than typically found in the men's game. Sub-elite female players also tended to run less at higher intensity levels at the end of both halves in comparison with elite female players. High intensity running is an important factor of success in soccer since many critical moments of the game occur under this condition. The ability to rapidly change direction also determined elite, sub-elite and amateur levels. The implementation of functional training, which focused on soccer-specific drills and plyometric exercises, to improve explosive power, may improve conditioning in female soccer players as well as decrease the risk of injuries which was 3-8 times higher in females compared to males. This review presents an in-depth overview of the most influential factors for determining success in female soccer.		[Milanovic, Zoran] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Carnojeviceva 10a, Nish 18000, Serbia; [Sporis, Goran] Univ Zagreb, Fac Kinesiol, Zagreb, Croatia; [James, Nic] Middlesex Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, London Sport Inst, London, England; [Trajkovic, Nebojsa] Univ Novi Sad, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Ignjatovic, Aleksandar] Univ Kragujevac, Fac Educ, Jagodina, Serbia; [Sarmento, Hugo] Univ Coimbra, Fac Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Res Unit Sport & Phys Activ CIDAF, Coimbra, Portugal; [Trecroci, Athos] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Borges Mendes, Bruno Miguel] Sport Lisboa & Benfica, FC Benfica LAB, Lisbon, Portugal; [Milanovic, Zoran] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Carnojeviceva 10a, Nish 18000, Serbia								59							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200008	31	Article; Article		
J	Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio; Garcia-Lopez, David; de Paz, Jose A.								Functional and Muscle-Size Effects of Flywheel Resistance Training with Eccentric-Overload in Professional Handball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			133	143		10.1515/hukin-2017-0096			DEC 2017	2017	The aim of the study was to analyse the effects of 6 week (15 sessions) flywheel resistance training with eccentric-overload (FRTEO) on different functional and anatomical variables in professional handball players. Twenty-nine athletes were recruited and randomly divided into two groups. The experimental group (EXP, n = 15) carried out 15 sessions of FRTEO in the leg-press exercise, with 4 sets of 7 repetitions at a maximum-concentric effort. The control group (CON, n = 14) performed the same number of training sessions including 4 sets of 7 maximum repetitions (7RM) using a weight-stack leg-press machine. The results which were measured included maximal dynamic strength (1RM), muscle power at different submaximal loads (PO), vertical jump height (CMJ and SJ), 20 m sprint time (20 m), T-test time (T-test), and Vastus-Lateralis muscle (VL) thickness. The results of the EXP group showed a substantially better improvement (p < 0.05-0.001) in PO, CMJ, 20 m, T-test and VL, compared to the CON group. Moreover, athletes from the EXP group showed significant improvements concerning all the variables measured: 1RM (ES = 0.72), PO (ES = 0.42 - 0.83), CMJ (ES = 0.61), SJ (ES = 0.54), 20 m (ES = 1.45), T-test (ES = 1.44), and VL (ES = 0.63 - 1.64). Since handball requires repeated short, explosive effort such as accelerations and decelerations during sprints with changes of direction, these results suggest that FRTEO affects functional and anatomical changes in a way which improves performance in well-trained professional handball players.		[Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio; de Paz, Jose A.] Univ Leon, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, Leon, Spain; [Garcia-Lopez, David] European Univ Miguel Cervantes, Dept Hlth Sci, Valladolid, Spain; [Maroto-Izquierdo, Sergio] Univ Leon, Inst Biomed IBIOMED, Leon, Spain								86							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200014	36	Article; Article		
J	Strzala, Marek; Stanula, Arkadiusz; Krezalek, Piotr; Ostrowski, Andrzej; Kaca, Marcin; Glab, Grzegorz								Butterfly Sprint Swimming Technique, Analysis of Somatic and Spatial-Temporal Coordination Variables								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			51	62		10.1515/hukin-2017-0089			DEC 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to investigate somatic properties and force production of leg extensor muscles measured in the countermovement jump test (CMJ), as well as to analyse kinematic variables of sprint surface butterfly swimming. Thirty-four male competitive swimmers were recruited with an average age of 19.3 +/- 1.83 years. Their average body height (BH) was 183.7 +/- 5.93 cm, body fat content 10.8 +/- 2.64% and body mass (BM) 78.3 +/- 5.0 kg. Length measurements of particular body segments were taken and a counter movement jump (CMJ) as well as an all-out 50 m butterfly speed test were completed. The underwater movements of the swimmers' bodies were recorded with a digital camera providing side-shots. We registered a significant relationship between body mass (r = 0.46), lean body mass (r = 0.48) and sprint surface butterfly swimming (VSBF). The anaerobic power measured in the CMJ test, total body length (TBL) as well as upper and lower extremity length indices did not influence swimming speed significantly. The temporal entry-kick index (the time ratio between the first kick and arm entry) significantly influenced VSBF (r = -0.45). Similarly, medium power of the coefficient was indicated between a) stroke rate kinematics (SR), b) duration of the first leg kick (LP1), c) air phase duration of arm recovery (Fly-arm), and VSBF (r = 0.40; r = 0.40 and r = 0.41, respectively). The entry-kick temporal index showed that, in the butterfly cycle, an appropriately early executed initial kick when compared to arm entry was associated with a longer arm propulsion phase, which in turn was associated with minimizing resistive gliding phases and enabled relatively longer and less resistive air arm recovery (higher value of the fly-arm index). The higher value of SR kinematic was another important element of the best butterfly results in this study.		[Strzala, Marek; Ostrowski, Andrzej; Kaca, Marcin] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Water Sports, Krakow, Poland; [Stanula, Arkadiusz] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ, Dept Sports Training, Katowice, Poland; [Krezalek, Piotr; Glab, Grzegorz] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Physiotherapy, Krakow, Poland; [Strzala, Marek] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Krakow, Poland								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200006	46	Article; Article		
J	Varley, Ian; Lewin, Ryan; Needham, Robert; Thorpe, Robin T.; Burbeary, Ross								Association Between Match Activity Variables, Measures of Fatigue and Neuromuscular Performance Capacity Following Elite Competitive Soccer Matches								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			93	99		10.1515/hukin-2017-0093			DEC 2017	2017	The aim of the study was to assess the relationships between match activity variables, subsequent fatigue and neuromuscular performance capacity in elite soccer players. Subjects (n = 10) were professional soccer players participating in the English Championships. Match activity variables and markers of fatigue status were measured before and following two matches. Creatine kinase (CK) and muscle soreness were measured at baseline, immediately following, as well as 40 and 64 h post-match. Countermovement jump performance and perceived ratings of wellness were measured at baseline, then 40 and 64 h post-match. Relationships were shown between CK and the total number of accelerations and decelerations immediately (r = 0.63; large), 40 h (r = 0.45; moderate) and 64 h post-match (r = 0.35; moderate) (p < 0.05). Relationships between CK and total sprint distance (r = 0.39; moderate) and the number of sprints (r = 0.35; moderate) 40 h post-match (p < 0.05) were observed. Furthermore, relationships were shown between the perceived rating of wellness and number of accelerations 40 (r = 0.52; large) and 64 h (r = 0.40; moderate) post-match, sprint distance 40 h post-match (r = 0.40; moderate) and the total number of sprints 40 h post-match (r = 0.51; large) (p < 0.05). The quantification of match activity variables, particularly the total number of accelerations and decelerations and the number of sprints, provides insights into the fatigue status in elite soccer players 40 and 64 h post-match.		[Varley, Ian; Lewin, Ryan; Needham, Robert] Nottingham Trent Univ, Sport Hlth & Performance Enhancement Res Ctr, Clifton Lane, Nottingham, England; [Thorpe, Robin T.] Manchester United Football Club, Football Med & Sci Dept, Manchester, Lancs, England; [Burbeary, Ross] Nottingham Forest Football Club, City Ground Nottingham, Nottingham, England; [Varley, Ian] Nottingham Trent Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, Sport Hlth & Performance Enhancement Res Ctr, Musculoskeletal Physiol Res Grp, Nottingham NG11 8NS, England								36							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200010	30	Article; Article		
J	Yanci, Javier; Los Arcos, Asier; Castillo, Daniel; Camara, Jesus								Sprinting, Change of Direction Ability and Horizontal Jump Performance in Youth Runners According to Gender								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			199	207		10.1515/hukin-2017-0103			DEC 2017	2017	The purpose of the study was to assess straight sprinting, change of direction ability and horizontal jump performance in youth runners according to age and gender. Two hundred and fifty-five youth runners (116 boys and 139 girls) participated in this study. The athletes were divided according to their age into five groups: under 8 yr (U8), under 10 yr (U10), under 12 yr (U12), under 14 yr (U14) and under 16 yr (U16). Significant differences (p < 0.01) were found between U8 and U10 in the 5 m sprint (d = 1.22), 505 agility test (505, d = 0.96), modified agility test (MAT, d = 1.43), horizontal countermovement jump (HCMJ, d = 1.06) and arm swing HCMJ (HCMJAS, d = 1.44); between U10 and U12 in the 505 (d = 0.39), MAT (d = 0.74), HCMJ (d = 0.96) and HCMJAS (d = 0.75); and between U12 and U14 in 5 m (d = 0.84), HCMJ (d = 0.88) and HCMJAS (d = 0.79). However, no significant differences (p > 0.05, d = 0.29-1.17) between U14 and U16 were observed in any of the tests. With regard to age and gender, in U8 and U10 groups there were no significant differences (p > 0.05, d = 0.02-0.76) between boys and girls in any test. However, in U12 and U14 groups, significant gender differences (p < 0.05, d = 0.85-1.24) were found in the MAT. Likewise, the boys obtained better results than girls in the horizontal jump tests (p < 0.05, d = 1.01-1.26). After the classification by age, some differences were observed between both genders, depending on the fitness variable evaluated.		[Yanci, Javier; Los Arcos, Asier; Camara, Jesus] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Fac Educ & Sport, Vitoria, Spain; [Castillo, Daniel] Univ Isabel I, Fac Hlth Sci, Burgos, Spain; [Yanci, Javier] Univ Basque Country, UPV EHU, Phys Educ & Sports Dept, Fac Educ & Sport, Lasarte S-N, Vitoria 01007, Spain								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200021	34	Article; Article		
J	Przednowek, Krzysztof; Iskra, Janusz; Wiktorowicz, Krzysztof; Krzeszowski, Tomasz; Maszczyk, Adam								Planning Training Loads for The 400 M Hurdles in Three-Month Mesocycles Using Artificial Neural Networks								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			175	189		10.1515/hukin-2017-0101			DEC 2017	2017	This paper presents a novel approach to planning training loads in hurdling using artificial neural networks. The neural models performed the task of generating loads for athletes' training for the 400 meters hurdles. All the models were calculated based on the training data of 21 Polish National Team hurdlers, aged 22.25 +/- 1.96, competing between 1989 and 2012. The analysis included 144 training plans that represented different stages in the annual training cycle. The main contribution of this paper is to develop neural models for planning training loads for the entire career of a typical hurdler. In the models, 29 variables were used, where four characterized the runner and 25 described the training process. Two artificial neural networks were used: a multi-layer perceptron and a network with radial basis functions. To assess the quality of the models, the leave-one-out cross-validation method was used in which the Normalized Root Mean Squared Error was calculated. The analysis shows that the method generating the smallest error was the radial basis function network with nine neurons in the hidden layer. Most of the calculated training loads demonstrated a non-linear relationship across the entire competitive period. The resulting model can be used as a tool to assist a coach in planning training loads during a selected training period.		[Przednowek, Krzysztof] Univ Rzeszow, Fac Phys Educ, Towarnickiego 3, PL-35959 Rzeszow, Poland; [Iskra, Janusz] Opole Univ Technol, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Opole, Poland; [Wiktorowicz, Krzysztof; Krzeszowski, Tomasz] Rzeszow Univ Technol, Fac Elect & Comp Engn, Rzeszow, Poland; [Maszczyk, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Stat Methodol & Informat, Katowice, Poland; [Przednowek, Krzysztof] Univ Rzeszow, Fac Phys Educ, Towarnickiego 3, PL-35959 Rzeszow, Poland								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200019	27	Article; Article		
J	Seabra, Andre; Fernandes, Ricardo J.; Marques, Elisa; Moura, Miguel; Ubago-Guisado, Esther; Hernando, Enrique; Gallardo, Leonor								Impact of Futsal and Swimming Participation on Bone Health in Young Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			85	91		10.1515/hukin-2017-0092			DEC 2017	2017	Physical activity plays a crucial role in bone mass acquisition during childhood and adolescence, with weight-bearing and high-impact sport activities being more beneficial. This study sought to evaluate the impact of different sports activities on bone mineral density and content in male Portuguese athletes. Seventy adolescent boys (aged 12-15 years) including 28 futsal players (FG), 20 swimmers (SG) and 22 non-athletic adolescents used as control subjects (CG), participated in the current study. Areal bone mineral density (aBMD) and areal bone mineral content (aBMC) were measured by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). Futsal players had significantly higher aBMD (lumbar spine -FG: 0.95 +/- 0.18, SG: 0.80 +/- 0.13, CG: 0.79 +/- 0.13 g/cm2, p = 0.001; pelvis -FG: 1.17 +/- 0.21, SG: 0.91 +/- 0.12, CG: 0.98 +/- 0.10 g/cm2, p < 0.001; lower limbs -FG: 1.21 +/- 0.19, SG: 0.97 +/- 0.10, CG: 0.99 +/- 0.09 g/cm2, p < 0.001) and aBMC (lumbar spine -FG: 51.07 +/- 16.53, SG: 40.19 +/- 12.47, CG: 40.50 +/- 10.53 g, p = 0.013; pelvis -FG: 299.5 +/- 110.61, SG: 170.02 +/- 55.82, CG: 183.11 +/- 46.78 g, p < 0.001; lower limbs -FG: 427.21 +/- 117.11, SG: 300.13 +/- 76.42, CG: 312.26 +/- 61.86 g/cm2, p < 0.001) than swimmers and control subjects. Data suggest that futsal, as a weight-bearing and high or odd-impact sport, may improve bone mass during childhood and adolescence.		[Seabra, Andre; Moura, Miguel] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Res Ctr Phys Act Hlth & Leisure CIAFEL, Oporto, Portugal; [Seabra, Andre] Portugal Football Federat, Portugal Football Sch, Oporto, Portugal; [Fernandes, Ricardo J.] Univ Porto, Fac Sport, Ctr Res Educ Innovat & Intervent Sport CIFI2D, Oporto, Portugal; [Marques, Elisa] Univ Inst Maia, CIDESD, Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, ISMAI, Maia, Portugal; [Ubago-Guisado, Esther; Hernando, Enrique; Gallardo, Leonor] Univ Castilla La Mancha, IGOID Res Grp, Toledo, Spain; [Seabra, Andre] Univ Porto, Fac Desporto, Rua Dr Placido Costa 91, P-4200450 Oporto, Portugal								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200009	36	Article; Article		
J	Valladares-Rodriguez, Santiago; Rey, Ezequiel; Mecias-Calvo, Marcos; Barcala-Furelos, Roberto; Bores-Cerezal, Antonio J.								Reliability and Usefulness of the 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test in Male and Female Professional Futsal Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			191	198		10.1515/hukin-2017-0102			DEC 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to determine the reliability and usefulness of the 30-15 Intermittent Fitness Test (30-15IFT) in professional male and female futsal players. Thirteen male (24.4 +/- 5.6 years; 174.5 +/- 10.3 cm; 70.3 +/- 9.9 kg) and fourteen female (23.3 +/- 4.5 years; 165.8 +/- 6.2 cm; 61.7 +/- 5.5 kg) professional futsal players performed the 30-15IFT on two occasions, separated by 5 days. Maximal intermittent running velocity (VIFT) and heart rate at exhaustion (HRpeak) data were collected for both tests. Reliability was assessed by the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC), typical error (TE) expressed as a coefficient of variation (CV), and smallest worthwhile change (SWC). VIFT demonstrated very good reliability between sessions, both for male (ICC = 0.92) and female (ICC = 0.96) players. As the TE for VIFT and HRpeak was similar to the calculated SWC for both male and female players, the usefulness of the test was rated as "medium". A change in performance of at least 2 stages in male players, or a change of more than 1 stage in female players could be interpreted as a meaningful change in aerobic futsal fitness. The results of this study demonstrate that the 30-15IFT is both a reliable and useful test for male and female professional futsal players.		[Valladares-Rodriguez, Santiago; Rey, Ezequiel; Barcala-Furelos, Roberto] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Campus Univ S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain; [Mecias-Calvo, Marcos; Bores-Cerezal, Antonio J.] European Univ Atlantic, Santander, Spain; [Bores-Cerezal, Antonio J.] Royal Spanish Football Federat, Spain Natl Futsal Team, Madrid, Spain; [Rey, Ezequiel] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sports Sci, Campus Univ S-N, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200020	24	Article; Article		
J	Bjorklund, Glenn; Alricsson, Marie; Svantesson, Ulla								Using Bilateral Functional and Anthropometric Tests to Define Symmetry in Cross-Country Skiers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			9	18		10.1515/hukin-2017-0107			DEC 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to evaluate the symmetry of anthropometry and muscle function in cross-country skiers and their association to vertical jumping power. Twenty cross-country skiers were recruited (21.7 +/- 3.8 yrs, 180.6 +/- 7.6 cm, 73.2 +/- 7.6 kg). Anthropometric data was obtained using an iDXA scan. VO2max was determined using the diagonal stride technique on a ski treadmill. Bilateral functional tests for the upper and lower body were the handgrip and standing heel-rise tests. Vertical jump height and power were assessed with a counter movement jump. Percent asymmetry was calculated using a symmetry index and four absolute symmetry index levels. At a group level the upper body was more asymmetrical with regard to lean muscle mass (p = 0.022, d = 0.17) and functional strength (p = 0.019, d = 0.51) than the lower body. At an individual level the expected frequencies for absolute symmetry level indexes showed the largest deviation from zero for the heel-rise test (chi 2 = 16.97, p = 0.001), while the leg lean mass deviated the least (chi 2 = 0.42, p = 0.517). No relationships were observed between absolute symmetry level indexes of the lower body and counter movement jump performance (p > 0.05). As a group the skiers display a more asymmetrical upper body than lower body regarding muscle mass and strength. Interestingly at the individual level, despite symmetrical lean leg muscle mass the heel-rise test showed the largest asymmetry. This finding indicates a mismatch in muscle function for the lower body.		[Bjorklund, Glenn; Alricsson, Marie; Svantesson, Ulla] Mid Sweden Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Swedish Winter Sports Res Ctr, S-83125 Ostersund, Sweden; [Alricsson, Marie] Linnaeus Univ, Dept Sports Sci, Kalmar, Sweden; [Svantesson, Ulla] Univ Gothenburg, Sahlgrenska Acad, Inst Neurosci & Physiol, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Bjorklund, Glenn] Swedish Sports Confederat, Stockholm, Sweden; [Bjorklund, Glenn] Mid Sweden Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Swedish Winter Sports Res Ctr, S-83125 Ostersund, Sweden								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200002	32	Article; Article		
J	Golas, Artur; Zwierzchowska, Anna; Maszczyk, Adam; Wilk, Michal; Stastny, Petr; Zajac, Adam								Neuromuscular Control During the Bench Press Movement in an Elite Disabled and Able-Bodied Athlete								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			209	215		10.1515/hukin-2017-0110			DEC 2017	2017	The disabled population varies significantly in regard to physical fitness, what is conditioned by the damage to the locomotor system. Recently there has been an increased emphasis on the role of competitive sport in enhancing health and the quality of life of individuals with disability. One of the sport disciplines of Paralympics is the flat bench press. The bench press is one of the most popular resistance exercises used for the upper body in healthy individuals. It is used not only by powerlifters, but also by athletes in most strength-speed oriented sport disciplines. The objective of the study was to compare neuromuscular control for various external loads (from 60 to 100% 1RM) during the flat bench press performed by an elite able-bodied athlete and an athlete with lower limb disability. The research project is a case study of two elite bench press athletes with similar sport results: an able-bodied athlete (M.W., age 34 years, body mass 103 kg, body height 1.72 m, 1RM in the flat bench press 200 kg) and a disabled athlete (M.T., age 31 years, body mass 92 kg, body height 1.70 m, 1RM in the flat bench press 190 kg). The activity was recorded for four muscles: pectoralis major (PM), anterior deltoid (AD), as well as for the lateral and long heads of the triceps brachii (TBlat and TBlong). The T-test revealed statistically significant differences between peak activity of all the considered muscles (AD with p = 0.001; PM with p = 0.001; TBlat with p = 0.0021 and TBlong with p = 0.002) between the 2 athletes. The analysis of peak activity differences of M.W and M.T. in relation to the load revealed statistically significant differences for load changes between: 60 to 100% 1RM (p = 0.007), 70 to 100% 1RM (p = 0.016) and 80 to 100% 1RM (p = 0.032). The flat bench press performed without legs resting firmly on the ground leads to the increased engagement of upper body muscles and to their greater activation. Isolated initial positions can be used to generate greater engagement of muscle groups during the bench press exercise and evoke their higher activation.		[Golas, Artur; Zwierzchowska, Anna; Maszczyk, Adam; Wilk, Michal; Zajac, Adam] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Katowice, Poland; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Prague, Czech Republic; [Golas, Artur] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Sports Training, Mikolowska 72A, PL-40065 Katowice, Poland								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200022	27	Article; Article		
J	Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Winckler, Ciro; Braganca, Jaime R.; da Fonseca, Roger A.; Kobal, Ronaldo; Abad, Cesar C. Cal; Kitamura, Katia; Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Franchini, Emerson								Performance Changes of Elite Paralympic Judo Athletes During a Paralympic Games Cycle: A Case Study with the Brazilian National Team								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			217	224		10.1515/hukin-2017-0111			DEC 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to describe the variations in power performance of elite Paralympic judo athletes across three consecutive training cycles of preparation for the ParaPan American Games, the World Championship and the Paralympic Games. Eleven Paralympic judokas from the Brazilian National team participated in this study. They were repeatedly assessed using squat and countermovement jumps, mean propulsive power (MPP) in the jump-squat (JS), the bench press and prone bench pull at several moments of the preparation. Training supervision based on the optimum power zone (range of loads where power production is maximized) was provided in the final cycle, prior to the Paralympic Games. Magnitude-based inference was used to compare the repeated measurements of power performance. Lower and upper limb muscle power gradually increased throughout the cycles; however, the best results in all exercises were observed prior to the Paralympic Games, during which the team won four silver medals. As an illustration, prior to participation in the Paralympic Games the MPP in the JS was likely to very likely higher than prior to the World Championship (effect size [ES] = 0.77) and ParaPan American Games (ES = 0.53), and in January and March 2016 (ES = 0.98 and 0.92, respectively; months preceding the Paralympic Games). Power performance assessments can provide information about the evolution of Paralympic judokas, and training at the optimum power zone seems to constitute an effective method to improve lower and upper limb power in these athletes.		[Loturco, Irineu; Pereira, Lucas A.; Kobal, Ronaldo; Abad, Cesar C. Cal; Kitamura, Katia; Nakamura, Fabio Y.] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Ave Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Winckler, Ciro; Braganca, Jaime R.; da Fonseca, Roger A.] CPB Brazilian Paralymp Comm, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] UEL State Univ Londrina, Londrina, PR, Brazil; [Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Martial Arts & Combat Sports Res Grp, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Loturco, Irineu] NAR Nucleus High Performance Sport, Ave Padre Jose Maria 555, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200023	17	Article; Article		
J	Praxedes, Alba; Moreno, Alberto; Garcia-Gonzalez, Luis; Pizarro, David; Del Villar, Fernando								The Relative Age Effect on Soccer Players in Formative Stages with Different Sport Expertise Levels								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			167	173		10.1515/hukin-2017-0100			DEC 2017	2017	The Relative Age Effect (RAE) in sport has been targeted by many research studies. The objective of this study was to analyze, in amateur clubs, the RAE of soccer players, according to the sport expertise level of the team (e.g., A, B, C and subsequent) that they belong to within the same game category. 1,098 soccer players in formative stages took part in the study, with ages varying between 6 and 18 years old (U8 to U19 categories). All of them were members of 4 Spanish federated clubs. The birth dates were classified into 4 quartiles (Q1 = Jan-Mar; Q2 = Apr-Jun; Q3 = Jul-Sept; Q4 = Oct-Dec) according to the team they belonged to. The results obtained in the chi-squared test and d value (effect size) revealed the existence of RAE in the teams with the highest expertise level, "A" (X2 = 15.342, p = .002, d = 0.4473) and "B" (X2 = 10.905, p = .012, d = 0.3657). However, in the lower level teams, "C and subsequent", this effect was not observed. Present findings show that players born during the first months of the year tend to be selected to play in teams with a higher sport expertise level of each category, due to their physical maturity. Consequently, this causes differences in terms of the experience they accumulate and the motivation that this creates in these players.		[Praxedes, Alba; Moreno, Alberto; Pizarro, David] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sport Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Garcia-Gonzalez, Luis] Univ Zaragoza, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Huesca, Spain; [Del Villar, Fernando] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Sport Studies Ctr, Madrid, Spain; [Praxedes, Alba] Av Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200018	26	Article; Article		
J	Eniseler, Niyazi; Sahan, Cagatay; Ozcan, Ilker; Dinler, Kivanc								High-Intensity Small-Sided Games versus Repeated Sprint Training in Junior Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			101	111		10.1515/hukin-2017-0104			DEC 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to compare the effects of high-intensity small-sided games training (SSGT) versus repeated-sprint training (RST) on repeated-sprint ability (RSA), soccer specific endurance performance and short passing ability among junior soccer players. The junior soccer players were recruited from of a professional team (age 16.9 +/- 1.1 years). The tests included the repeated-shuttle-sprint ability test (RSSAT), Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test level 1 (Yo-Yo IR1) and Loughborough Soccer Passing Test (LSPT). Nineteen participants were randomly assigned to either the small-sided games training (SSGTG) (n = 10) or repeated-sprint training group (RSTG) (n = 9). Small-sided games or repeated-sprint training were added to the regular training sessions for two days of the regular practice week. The Wilcoxon signed-rank and Mann-Whitney U tests were used to examine differences in groups and training effects. A time x training group effect was found in the improvement of short-passing ability for the small-sided games training group which showed significantly better scores than the repeated-sprint training group (p = 0.05). Both groups showed similar improvements in RSAdecrement (p < 0.05). Only the repeated-sprint training group improved in the Yo-Yo IR1 (p < 0.05). This study clearly shows that high-intensity small-sided games training can be used as an effective training mode to enhance both repeated sprint ability and short-passing ability.		[Eniseler, Niyazi; Sahan, Cagatay; Ozcan, Ilker; Dinler, Kivanc] Celal Bayar Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, TR-45010 Sehzadeler, Manisa, Turkey; [Eniseler, Niyazi] Celal Bayar Univ, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, TR-45010 Sehzadeler, Manisa, Turkey								53							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200011	43	Article; Article		
J	Gryc, Tomas; Stastny, Petr; Zahalka, Frantisek; Smolka, Wojciech; Zmijewski, Piotr; Golas, Artur; Zawartka, Marek; Maly, Tomas								Performance and Kinematic Differences in Putting Between Healthy and Disabled Elite Golfers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				60	1			233	241		10.1515/hukin-2017-0113			DEC 2017	2017	Golfers with disability are limited in the execution of the full golf swing, but their performance in putting may be comparable because this stroke does not demand significant strength, balance and range of motion. Therefore, the aim of this study was to compare putting performance, kinetic and kinematic consistency between golfers with different disabilities and healthy athletes. The participants consisted of three disabled athletes (perinatal cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis, below knee lower limb amputee) and three healthy golfers (age 34 +/- 4.5 years, body height 178 +/- 3.3 cm, body mass 83 +/- 6.2 kg). The golfers' movements were recorded by active 3D markers for kinematic analyses; the subjects performed 10 trials of a 6 m putting task while standing on separate force platforms placed under each lower limb. Putting performance was measured by the distance of the final ball position to the centre of the hole. ANOVA analyses did not show any differences in clubhead speed and total ball distance from the hole. The consistency of those two parameters expressed by the coefficient of variation (CV) was CV = 0.5% or better in both groups for clubhead speed and ranged from CV = 0.40 to 0.61% in healthy and CV = 0.21 to 0.55% in disabled athletes for total error distance. The main effect ANOVA showed differences in weight shift, hip and shoulder kinematics (p < 0.05) between healthy players and all players with disability. All disabled athletes shifted their weight toward the healthy side (towards the healthy lower limb) and alternated the end of the swing. The player with below knee amputation had the lowest range of motion in the shoulder joint during the putting stroke. The players with perinatal cerebral palsy and multiple sclerosis had the largest range of motion in the hips. Putting performance of disabled golfers was similar to healthy athletes. During training of disabled players, coaches should pay attention to the specificity of a particular disability when focused on putting performance. However, individual technique should achieve the same consistency as observed in healthy players.		[Gryc, Tomas; Zahalka, Frantisek; Maly, Tomas] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Biomed Lab, Prague, Czech Republic; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport Games, Prague, Czech Republic; [Smolka, Wojciech] Med Univ Silesia, Sch Med Katowice, Clin Dept Laryngol, Katowice, Poland; [Zmijewski, Piotr] Univ Informat Technol & Management Rzeszow, Fac Med, Rzeszow, Poland; [Golas, Artur; Zawartka, Marek] Jerzy Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Dept Theory & Practice Sport, Katowice, Poland; [Stastny, Petr] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, Jose Martiho 31, Prague 16252 6, Czech Republic								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418922200025	23	Article; Article		
J	Vickery, Will; Harkness, Alice								Physical, Physiological and Perceptual Match Demands of Amateur Mixed Gender Touch Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			589	594					DEC 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to provide a position specific (middle, link [male], link [female], wing) analysis of mixed gender touch on the physical physiological and perceptual demands of amateur players during match-play across a season. Distance and speed measures were obtained through the use of 10-Hz global positioning system devices, whilst telemetric heart rate devices were used determine a range of physiological measures. Players also provided a rating of perceived exertion following each match. The greatest physical demand was associated with the middle playing position by comparison to all others (Distance travelled >= 5.00 m.s(-1) effect size [ES]: 0.01-0.13; average distance >= 5.00 m.s(-1) ES: 0.11-0.38). Those playing as a middle also displayed a greater physiological (Mean heart rate ES: 0.05-0.13) and perceptual demand (rating of perceived exertion ES: 0.01-0.04). However, most measures reported only a trivial effect between each playing position. The findings provide an insight into the differing demands associated with the different playing positions within mixed gender touch which practitioners can use to provide more position-specific conditioning programs.		[Vickery, Will] Univ Northumbria, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Dept Sport Hlth & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Harkness, Alice] Univ Liverpool, Student Support & Adm Div, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Vickery, Will] Northumbria Univ, Dept Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Northumberland Bldg, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000020	24	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Yang; Fang, Ying; Zhang, Xini; He, Junliang; Fu, Weijie								Does Shoe Collar Height Influence Ankle Joint Kinematics and Kinetics in Sagittal Plane Maneuvers?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			543	550					DEC 2017	2017	The Objective of the study is to investigate the effects of basketball shoes with different collar heights on ankle kinematics and kinetics and athletic performance in different sagittal plane maneuvers. Twelve participants who wore high-top and low-top basketball shoes (hereafter, HS and LS, respectively) performed a weight-bearing dorsiflexion (WB-DF) maneuver, drop jumps (DJs), and lay-up jumps (LJs). Their sagittal plane kinematics and ground reaction forces were recorded using the Vicon motion capture system and Kistler force plates simultaneously. Moreover, ankle dorsiflexion and plantarflexion angles, moment, power, stiffness, and jump height were calculated. In the WB-DF test, the peak ankle dorsiflexion angle (p = 0.041) was significantly smaller in HS than in LS. Additionally, the peak ankle plantarflexion moment (p = 0.028) and power (p = 0.022) were significantly lower in HS than in LS during LJs but not during DJs. In both jumping maneuvers, no significant differences were found in the jump height or ankle kinematics between the two shoe types. According to the WB-DF test, increasing shoe collar height can effectively reduce the ankle range of motion in the sagittal plane. Although the HS did not restrict the flexion-extension performance of the ankle joint during two jumping maneuvers, an increased shoe collar height can reduce peak ankle plantarflexion moment and peak power during the push-off phase in LJs. Therefore, a higher shoe collar height should be used to circumvent effects on the partial kinetics of the ankle joint in the sagittal plane.		[Yang, Yang; Zhang, Xini; Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Fang, Ying] Worcester Polytech Inst, Dept Biomed Engn, Worcester, MA 01609 USA; [He, Junliang] Shanghai Res Inst Sports Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Minist Educ, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000014	28	Article; Article		
J	Mitropoulos, Alexandros; Gumber, Anil; Crank, Helen; Klonizakis, Markos								Validation of an Arm Crank Ergometer Test for Use in Sedentary Adults								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			558	564					DEC 2017	2017	The maximal oxygen uptake ((V) over dot O(2)peak) test is an approved preoperative examination tool, in a clinical setting: Both (V) over dot O(2)peak and anaerobic threshold indicate a patient's physiological tolerance for major surgery and post-operative mortality, with cycle ergometry being routinely used for (V) over dot O(2)peak tests in clinical settings, in many European countries. Nevertheless, the opportunities to assess populations with restricted mobility of the lower limbs are limited, as alternative methods (such as an armcrank test protocol) to assess (V) over dot O(2)peak are yet to be established. Twelve sedentary middle-aged adults (55.1 +/- 5.0 years) performed two incremental protocols on an arm crank and cycle ergometer on separate occasions. During exercise, gas exchange was collected and analysed by an online breath-by-breath analysis system. Regression analysis showed that the model with dependent variable cycle ergometer (V) over dot O(2)peak (CE(V) over dot O(2)peak) in ml.kg(-1).min(-1) and independent variables arm crank VO(2)peak (ACE(V) over dot O(2)peak) in ml.kg(-1).min(-1), lean body mass lower limbs (LBMLL) and total lean body mass (TLBM) fitted the population the best, with r(2) = 0.87, adj. r(2) = 0.82 and SEE = 3.14. The equation estimated with this model is: CE (V) over dot O-2 peak = 11.776 + 1.418 X ACE (V) over dot O(2)peak(ml.kg(-1).min-) -1.454 x TLBM + 3.967 X LLLBM. Our study suggests that arm cranking could be an alternative mode of exercise for sedentary middle-aged adults (and potentially in clinical settings) to assess the cardiorespiratory fitness of people with restricted lower-limb mobility.		[Mitropoulos, Alexandros; Crank, Helen; Klonizakis, Markos] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Collegiate Campus, Sheffield S10 2BP, S Yorkshire, England; [Gumber, Anil] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Hlth & Social Care Res, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Klonizakis, Markos] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Collegiate Campus, Sheffield S10 2BP, S Yorkshire, England								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000016	32	Article; Article		
J	Fullerton, Christopher L.; Lane, Andrew M.; Devonport, Tracey J.								The Influence of a Pacesetter on Psychological Responses and Pacing Behavior during a 1600 m Run								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			551	557					DEC 2017	2017	This study compared the effects of following a pacer versus following a self-paced plan on psychological responses and pacing behavior in well-trained distance runners. Pacing in the present study was individually tailored where each participant developed a personal strategy to ensure their goal time was achieved. We expected that following a pacer would associate with goal achievement, higher pre-run confidence, positive emotions and lower perceived exertion during performance. In a mixed-design repeated-measures study, nineteen well-trained runners completed two 1600m running time trials. Ten runners had a pacer (paced group) who supported their individual pacing strategy, and nine participants self-paced running alone (control group). Both groups could check pace using their wrist watch. In contrast to our expectation, results indicated that the paced group reported higher pre-run anxiety with no significant differences in finish time, goal confidence, goal difficulty, perceived exertion, and self-rated performance between groups. We suggest that following a pacer is a skill that requires learning. Following a personalised pacer might associate with higher anxiety due to uncertainty in being able to keep up with the pacer and public visibility of dropping behind, something that is not so observable in a self-paced run completed alone. Future research should investigate mechanisms associated with effective pacing.		[Fullerton, Christopher L.] Univ Kent Medway, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Chatham ME4 4AG, Kent, England; [Lane, Andrew M.; Devonport, Tracey J.] Univ Wolverhampton, Inst Sport, Sport Psychol, Gorway Rd, Walsall WS1 3BD, W Midlands, England; [Fullerton, Christopher L.] Univ Kent Medway, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Chatham ME4 4AG, Kent, England								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000015	35	Article; Article		
J	Gjinovci, Bahri; Idrizovic, Kemal; Uljevic, Ognjen; Sekulic, Damir								Plyometric Training Improves Sprinting, Jumping and Throwing Capacities of High Level Female Volleyball Players Better Than Skill-Based Conditioning								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			527	535					DEC 2017	2017	There is an evident lack of studies on the effectiveness of plyometric- and skill-based-conditioning in volleyball. This study aimed to evaluate effects of 12-week plyometric- and volleyball-skill-based training on specific conditioning abilities in female volleyball players. The sample included 41 high-level female volleyball players (21.8 +/- 2.1 years of age; 1.76 +/- 0.06 cm; 60.8 +/- 7.0 kg), who participated in plyometric- (n = 21), or skill-based-conditioning-program (n = 20). Both programs were performed twice per week. Participants were tested on body-height, body-mass (BM), countermovement jump (CMJ), standing broad jump (SBJ), medicine ball throw, (MBT) and 20-m sprint (S20M). All tests were assessed at the study baseline (pre-) and at the end of the 12-week programs (post-testing). Two-way ANOVA for repeated measurements showed significant (p<0.05) "Group x Time" effects for all variables but body-height. Plyometric group significantly reduced body-mass (trivial effect size [ES] differences; 1% average pre- to post-measurement changes), and improved their performance in S20M (moderate ES; 8%), MBT (very large ES; 25%), CMJ (large ES; 27%), and SBJ (moderate ES; 8%). Players involved in skill-based-conditioning significantly improved CMJ (large ES; 18%), SBJ (small ES; 3%), and MBT (large ES; 9%). The changes which occurred between pre- and post-testing were more inter-correlated in plyometric-group. Although both training-modalities induced positive changes in jumping-and throwing-capacities, plyometric-training is found to be more effective than skill-based conditioning in improvement of conditioning capacities of female senior volleyball players. Future studies should evaluate differential program effects in less experienced and younger players.		[Gjinovci, Bahri] Univ Prishtina, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Prishtina, Kosovo; [Idrizovic, Kemal] Univ Montenegro, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Podgorica, Montenegro; [Uljevic, Ognjen; Sekulic, Damir] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Teslina 6, Split 21000, Croatia; [Sekulic, Damir] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Teslina 6, Split 21000, Croatia								44							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000012	29	Article; Article		
J	Fortes, Leonardo S.; da Costa, Bruna D. V.; Paes, Pedro P.; do Nascimento Junior, Jose R. A.; Fiorese, Lenamar; Ferreira, Maria E. C.								Influence of Competitive-Anxiety on Heart Rate Variability in Swimmers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			498	504					DEC 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to analyze the relationship between competitive anxiety and heart rate variability (HRV) in swimming athletes. A total of 66 volunteers (41 male and 27 female) who swam the 400-m freestyle in the Brazilian Swimming Championships participated. Thirty minutes before the 400-m freestyle event, the athletes answered the Competitive Anxiety Inventory (CSAI-2R) questionnaire, then underwent anthropometric (body weight, height, and skinfold thickness) and HRV measurements. Then, at a second meeting, held 3 h after the 400-m freestyle event, the athletes returned to the evaluation room for HRV measurement (Polar (R) RS800cx, Kempele, Finland). Multiple linear regression was used to evaluate the relationship between competitive anxiety and HRV. The multiple linear regression was performed in three blocks (block 1: cognitive anxiety, block 2: somatic anxiety, and block 3: self-confidence), adopting the forward model. The results indicated a significant association between cognitive anxiety (p = 0.001) and HRV. An increased magnitude of the association was observed when somatic anxiety was inserted in the model (p = 0.001). In contrast, self-confidence showed, which was inserted in block 3, no relationship with HRV (p = 0.27). It was concluded that cognitive and somatic anxieties were associated with the HRV of swimmers. Athletes with a high magnitude of cognitive and/or somatic anxiety demonstrated more significant autonomic nervous system disturbance. Practically, psychological interventions are needed to improve anxiety states that are specific to perform well, and to improve HRV.		[Fortes, Leonardo S.; da Costa, Bruna D. V.; Paes, Pedro P.] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Grad Program Phys Educ, Recife, PE, Brazil; [do Nascimento Junior, Jose R. A.] Fed Univ Vale do Sao Francisco, Grad Program Phys Educ, Petrolina, Brazil; [Fiorese, Lenamar] Univ Estadual Maringa, Grad Program Phys Educ, Maringa, Parana, Brazil; [Ferreira, Maria E. C.] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Grad Program Phys Educ, Juiz De Fora, Brazil; [Fortes, Leonardo S.] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Grad Program Phys Educ, Recife, PE, Brazil								37							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000008	31	Article; Article		
J	Krenn, Bjoern; Pernhaupt, Niklas; Handsteiner, Markus								Do Red and Blue Uniforms Matter in Football and Handball Penalties?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			565	573					DEC 2017	2017	Past research has revealed ambiguous results on the impact of red uniforms in sports competition. The current study was aimed at analyzing the role of red and blue uniforms in football and handball penalties. Two experiments were conducted using a within subjects design, where participants rated uniform colormanipulated video clips. In the first study, participants (n = 39) watched footage of football players kicking a penalty, whereas in the second study (n = 118) videos of handball penalty takers, handball goalkeepers and football goalkeepers preparing themselves to score/save a penalty were shown. Participants rated player's/goalkeeper's level of confidence and the expected position of the ball crossing the goal line in the first experiment and additionally the probability of scoring the penalty against the goalkeepers in the second experiment. The videos stopped at the point where the ball was leaving the foot and hand respectively. Results did not show any beneficial impact of red uniforms. Rather, football players wearing blue were rated to kick the ball higher. The study contradicts any positive effect of red versus blue uniforms in the context of football and handball penalties, which emphasizes the need of searching for potential moderators of color's impact on human behavior.		[Krenn, Bjoern; Handsteiner, Markus] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Dept Sports Sci, Schmelz 6a, A-1150 Vienna, Austria; [Pernhaupt, Niklas] Univ Vienna, Dept Sociol, Vienna, Austria; [Krenn, Bjoern] Univ Vienna, Ctr Sport Sci & Univ Sports, Dept Sports Sci, Schmelz 6a, A-1150 Vienna, Austria								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000017	51	Article; Article		
J	Molphy, John; Dickinson, John W.; Chester, Neil J.; Loosemore, Mike; Whyte, Gregory								The Effect of 400 μg Inhaled Salbutamol on 3 km Time Trial Performance in a Low Humidity Environment								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			581	588					DEC 2017	2017	The Objectives of the study were to investigate whether 400 mu g inhaled salbutamol influences 3 km running time-trial performance and lung function in eucapnic voluntary hyperpnoea positive (EVH+ve) and negative (EVH-ve) individuals. Fourteen male participants (22.4 +/- 1.6yrs; 76.4 +/- 8.7kg; 1.80 +/- 0.07 m); (7 EVH+ ve; 7 EVH-ve) were recruited following written informed consent. All participants undertook an EVH challenge to identify either EVH+ ve ( down arrow FEV1 >= 10%) or EVH-ve (down arrow FEV1<10%). Participants performed three separate 3 km running time-trials in a low-humidity (20-25%) environment on a non-motorized treadmill, 15 minutes following inhalation of salbutamol (400 mu g), placebo (non-active inhalant) or control (no inhalant), in a randomized, single-blind, repeated measures design. Forced vital capacity maneuvers were performed at baseline, 10 minutes post inhalation and post time-trial. Time to complete 3 km and lung function data were analyzed using mixed model repeated measures ANOVA. Significance was assumed at p < 0.05. All EVH+ve participants had FEV1 falls from baseline between 10-25% post-challenge. There was no difference in performance time between trial conditions in EVH+ve (1012.7 +/- 129.6s; 1002.4 +/- 123.1s; 1015.9 +/- 113.0s) (p = 0.774) and EVH-ve (962.1 +/- 99.2s; 962.0 +/- 76.2s; 950.8 +/- 84.9s) (p = 0.401) groups for salbutamol, placebo and control trials, respectively. Exercising heart rate was significantly higher (p = 0.05) in the salbutamol trial (183 +/- 8 beats. min(-1)) compared to control (180 +/- 9 beats. min(-1)) with a trend towards significance (p= 0.06) in the placebo trial (179 +/- 9 beats. min-1) for the pooled groups, no differences were seen between trials in groups individually. There was an increase in FEV1 in both EVH+ ve (4.01 +/- 0.8L; 4.26 +/- 0.7L; 4.25 +/- 0.5L) and EVH-ve (4.81 +/- 0.4L; 5.1 +/- 0.4L; 5.1 +/- 0.5L) groups which was significant postinhalation (p = 0.01; p = 0.02), but not post-time-trial (p = 0.27; p = 0.06), respectively, following salbutamol. EVH+ve participants did not demonstrate significant falls (> 10% from baseline) in FEV1 following any time-trial. Administration of 400 mu g inhaled salbutamol does not improve 3 km time-trial performance in either mild EVH+ve or EVH-ve individuals despite significantly increased HR and FEV1.		[Molphy, John; Dickinson, John W.] Univ Kent, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Endurance Res Grp, Chatham, England; [Molphy, John; Chester, Neil J.; Whyte, Gregory] Liverpool John Moores Univ, Res Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Loosemore, Mike] UCL, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Molphy, John] Univ Kent, Medway Campus, Chatham ME4 4AG, Kent, England								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000019	26	Article; Article		
J	Tinsley, Grant M.; Urbina, Stacie; Mullins, Jacy; Outlaw, Jordan; Hayward, Sara; Stone, Matt; Foster, Cliffa; Wilborn, Colin; Taylor, Lem								Influence of A Thermogenic Dietary Supplement on Safety Markers, Body Composition, Energy Expenditure, Muscular Performance and Hormone Concentrations: A Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, Double-Blind Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			459	467					DEC 2017	2017	Dietary supplementation is commonly employed by individuals seeking to improve body composition and exercise performance. The purpose of the present study was to examine the safety and effectiveness of a commercially available dietary supplement designed to promote thermogenesis and fat loss. In a randomized double-blind trial, participants were assigned to consume placebo or a multi-ingredient supplement containing caffeine, green tea extract, l-carnitine, evodiamine and other ingredients that purportedly enhance thermogenesis. The study included acute baseline testing, a 6-week progressive resistance training and supplementation intervention, and post-intervention testing. Laboratory assessments included resting energy expenditure responses to acute supplement ingestion, evaluation of body composition and muscular performance, and analysis of blood variables (metabolic panel, testosterone, estrogen and cortisol). Dependent variables were analyzed using ANOVA with repeated measures. No unfavorable effects of supplementation were reported, and the supplement did not adversely affect safety markers. However, the supplement did not reduce fat mass or increase lean mass relative to placebo. In the supplement group, lower body maximal strength was increased relative to placebo (+18%, d=1.1 vs. +10%, d=0.5), and cortisol concentrations were decreased relative to placebo (-16%; d=-0.4 vs. +15%, d=.75). However, no differences were observed for upper body maximal strength or muscular endurance. REE increased in response to both supplement and placebo ingestion (placebo: +5%; supplement: +11.5%), but the difference between conditions was not statistically significant. Overall, some select parameters may have been beneficially modified by supplementation, but this did not result in superior weight or fat loss over 6 weeks of supplementation and resistance training.		[Tinsley, Grant M.] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX USA; [Urbina, Stacie; Mullins, Jacy; Outlaw, Jordan; Foster, Cliffa; Wilborn, Colin; Taylor, Lem] Univ Mary Hardin Baylor, Human Performance Lab, Dept Exercise & Sports Sci, Belton, TX USA; [Hayward, Sara; Wilborn, Colin] Univ Mary Hardin Baylor, Dept Phys Therapy, Belton, TX USA; [Stone, Matt] Univ Arkansas, Exercise Sci Res Ctr, Fayetteville, AR 72701 USA; [Taylor, Lem] Univ Mary Hardin Baylor, Human Performance Lab, Dept Exercise & Sports Sci, Belton, TX USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000003	34	Article; Article		
J	Atalay, Erdem; Akova, Bedrettin; Gur, Hakan; Sekir, Ufuk								Effect of Upper-Extremity Strengthening Exercises on the Lumbar Strength, Disability and Pain of Patients with Chronic Low Back Pain: A Randomized Controlled Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			595	603					DEC 2017	2017	The present study aimed to analyze the impacts of a low back rehabilitation program accompanied with neck, shoulder and upper back exercises on pain, disability, and physical characteristics of patients with chronic low back pain. Twenty sedentary male patients with chronic low back pain participated in the study on a voluntary basis. The patients were randomly allocated into two groups: a conventional low back exercise group (CE) and a supported exercise group (SE; CE plus upper back, neck, and shoulder exercises). The Modified Oswestry Disability Questionnaire (MODQ) was used to evaluate the disability status and the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) was used to identify the pain states of the patients. In addition, neck, lumbar and shoulder isokinetic and isometric strengths of the patients were evaluated. The CE group performed lumbar stretching, mobilization and stabilization exercises in addition to low-back and abdominal isometric and concentric strengthening exercises. The SE group performed static stretching and isotonic exercises for the neck, upper-back, and shoulder muscles, in addition to the exercises performed in CE group. The exercises were implemented 3 days a week for 6 weeks in both groups. Following the 6-week exercise periods in both groups, statistically significant (p < 0.01) improvements were observed in the patients' levels of pain and the scores of MODQ reflecting an easing of disability. With respect to the levels of pain and disability, the improvements observed in the SE group was significantly (p < 0.01) greater than the improvement observed in the CE group. Based on the findings of this study, we can conclude that a low back exercise program used in combination with neck, shoulder and upper back exercises reduces the level of pain and disability in patients with chronic low back pain more prominently than conventional low back exercises.		[Atalay, Erdem] Eskisehir Yunus Emre State Hosp, Dept Sports Med, Eskisehir, Turkey; [Akova, Bedrettin; Gur, Hakan; Sekir, Ufuk] Uludag Univ, Dept Sports Med, Med Fac, TR-16059 Bursa, Turkey; [Akova, Bedrettin] Uludag Univ, Dept Sports Med, Med Fac, TR-16059 Bursa, Turkey								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000021	45	Article; Article		
J	dos Santos, Karini B.; Bento, Paulo C. Barauce; Pereira, Gleber; Payton, Carl; Rodacki, Andre L. F.								Front Crawl Swimming Performance and Bi-Lateral Force Asymmetry during Land-Based and Tethered Swimming Tests								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			574	580					DEC 2017	2017	The aims of this study were to investigate whether land-based and tethered swimming strength tests can explain swimming performance in 200-meter front crawl and, whether these tests were able to identify bilateral symmetry in force production. In the first session, eighteen swimmers completed a maximum effort 200 m front crawl swim (swimming performance) and 15 seconds maximal effort tethered front crawl swim. In the second session, participants performed the upper extremity isometric strength test. Peak force production of tethered swimming and isometric strength tests were significantly correlated for the strongest and weakest sides (r = 0.58 and r = 0.63, respectively; p < 0.05), but only peak force production during tethered swimming correlated with 200 m swimming performance time (r = -0.55, p < 0.05). Bilateral asymmetries in peak force and rate of force development were similar between the tethered swimming and isometric strength tests (peak force: 13%, p = 0.24; rate of force development: 15%, p = 0.88) However, both tests detected significant difference of peak force and rate of force development between body sides. The tethered swimming test can partially explain the 200 m front crawl swimming performance. In addition, the land-based and tethered swimming tests may be used to identify bilateral asymmetry of swimming.		[dos Santos, Karini B.; Bento, Paulo C. Barauce; Pereira, Gleber; Rodacki, Andre L. F.] Univ Fed Parana, Setor Ciencias Biol, R Coracao Maria 92, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Payton, Carl] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Crewe, England; [dos Santos, Karini B.] Univ Fed Parana, Setor Ciencias Biol, R Coracao Maria 92, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000018	43	Article; Article		
J	Maeda, Noriaki; Urabe, Yukio; Tsutsumi, Shogo; Sakai, Shogo; Fujishita, Hironori; Kobayashi, Toshiki; Asaeda, Makoto; Hirata, Kazuhiko; Mikami, Yukio; Kimura, Hiroaki								The Acute Effects of Static and Cyclic Stretching on Muscle Stiffness and Hardness of Medial Gastrocnemius Muscle								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			514	520					DEC 2017	2017	This study aimed to clarify the acute effects of static stretching (SS) and cyclic stretching (CS) on muscle stiffness and hardness of the medial gastrocnemius muscle (MG) by using ultrasonography, range of motion (ROM) of the ankle joint and ankle plantar flexor. Twenty healthy men participated in this study. Participants were randomly assigned to SS, CS and control conditions. Each session consisted of a standard 5-minute cycle warm-up, accompanied by one of the subsequent conditions in another day: (a) 2 minutes static stretching, (b) 2 minutes cyclic stretching, (c) control. Maximum ankle dorsiflexion range of motion (ROM max) and normalized peak torque (NPT) of ankle plantar flexor were measured in the pre- and post-stretching. To assess muscle stiffness, muscle-tendon junction (MTJ) displacement (the length changes in tendon and muscle) and MTJ angle (the angle made by the tendon of insertion and muscle fascicle) of MG were measured using ultrasonography at an ankle dorsiflexion angle of -10 degrees, 0 degrees, 10 degrees and 20 degrees before and after SS and CS for 2 minutes in the pre- and post-stretching. MG hardness was measured using ultrasound real-time tissue elastography (RTE). The results of this study indicate a significant effect of SS for ROM maximum, MTJ angle (0 degrees, 10 degrees, 20 degrees) and RTE (10 degrees, 20 degrees) compared with CS (p < 0.05). There were no significant differences in MTJ displacement between SS and CS. CS was associated with significantly higher NPT values than SS. This study suggests that SS of 2 minutes' hold duration significantly affected muscle stiffness and hardness compared with CS. In addition, CS may contribute to the elongation of muscle tissue and increased muscle strength.		[Maeda, Noriaki; Urabe, Yukio; Tsutsumi, Shogo; Sakai, Shogo; Fujishita, Hironori] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Biomed & Hlth Sci, Div Sports Rehabil, Hiroshima, Japan; [Kobayashi, Toshiki] Hokkaido Univ Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Prosthet & Orthot, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Asaeda, Makoto; Hirata, Kazuhiko] Hiroshima Univ, Dept Sports, Med Ctr, Hiroshima, Japan; [Mikami, Yukio; Kimura, Hiroaki] Hiroshima Univ Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Hiroshima, Japan; [Maeda, Noriaki] Hiroshima Univ, Grad Sch Biomed & Hlth Sci, Div Sports Rehabil, Hiroshima, Japan								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000010	43	Article; Article		
J	Leicht, Anthony S.; Gomez, Miguel A.; Woods, Carl T.								Explaining Match Outcome during The Men's Basketball Tournament at The Olympic Games								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	4			468	473					DEC 2017	2017	In preparation for the Olympics, there is a limited opportunity for coaches and athletes to interact regularly with team performance indicators providing important guidance to coaches for enhanced match success at the elite level. This study examined the relationship between match outcome and team performance indicators during men's basketball tournaments at the Olympic Games. Twelve team performance indicators were collated from all men's teams and matches during the basketball tournament of the 2004-2016 Olympic Games (n = 156). Linear and nonlinear analyses examined the relationship between match outcome and team performance indicator characteristics; namely, binary logistic regression and a conditional interference (CI) classification tree. The most parsimonious logistic regression model retained 'assists', 'defensive rebounds', 'field-goal percentage', 'fouls', 'fouls against', 'steals' and 'turnovers' (delta AIC <0.01; Akaike weight = 0.28) with a classification accuracy of 85.5%. Conversely, four performance indicators were retained with the CI classification tree with an average classification accuracy of 81.4%. However, it was the combination of 'field-goal percentage' and 'defensive rebounds' that provided the greatest probability of winning (93.2%). Match outcome during the men's basketball tournaments at the Olympic Games was identified by a unique combination of performance indicators. Despite the average model accuracy being marginally higher for the logistic regression analysis, the CI classification tree offered a greater practical utility for coaches through its resolution of non-linear phenomena to guide team success.		[Leicht, Anthony S.; Woods, Carl T.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Gomez, Miguel A.] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Leicht, Anthony S.] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia								42							Sport Sciences	WOS:000422714000004	27	Article; Article		
J	Lastella, M.; Roach, G. D.; Halson, S. L.; Gore, C. J.; Garvican-Lewis, L. A.; Sargent, C.								Sleep at the helm: A case study of how a head coach sleeps compared to his team								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			782	789		10.1177/1747954117738882			DEC 2017	2017	In recent years, research examining the sleep of elite athletes has increased. This is predominantly due to the importance sleep has on an athlete's psychological and physiological well-being. Despite the growing importance of sleep in athletes, the amount and quality of sleep coaches obtain has been neglected. The aim of this study was to examine the sleep of a head coach and compare it to his team. The sleep of 16 members of the Australian U/20 men's football team (age 18.8 +/- 0.9 years) and the head coach (age 55 years) was monitored using wrist activity monitors and self-report sleep diaries. Sleep was examined for 15 nights in preparation for the 2011 U/20 FIFA World Cup. The head coach went to bed earlier (23: 30 h +/- 65min vs. 23: 36 h +/- 30min), spent less time in bed (8.4 +/- 1.3 h vs. 8.6 +/- 1.0 h), obtained less sleep per night (6.4 +/- 1.5 h vs. 6.6 +/- 0.8 h), and woke up earlier (07: 54 h +/- 46min vs. 08: 12 h +/- 52 min) than his team. In general, the head coach obtained less sleep than his team and slept considerably poorer the night before important games. Future investigations need to examine the extent to which sleep impairs psychological state, decision-making and overall coaching performance.		[Lastella, M.; Roach, G. D.; Sargent, C.] Cent Queensland Univ, Appleton Inst Behav Sci, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Halson, S. L.; Gore, C. J.; Garvican-Lewis, L. A.] Australian Inst Sport, Dept Physiol, Belconnen, ACT, Australia; [Gore, C. J.] Flinders Univ S Australia, Exercise Physiol Lab, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Garvican-Lewis, L. A.] Univ Canberra, Res Inst Sport & Exercise, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Lastella, M.] Cent Queensland Univ, Appleton Inst, 44 Greenhill Rd, Wayville, SA 5034, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100009	40	Article; Article		
J	Horne, Mark J.								The relationship of race discipline with overall performance in sprint and standard distance triathlon age-group world championships								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			814	822		10.1177/1747954117738878			DEC 2017	2017	The study analysed data of 25- to 29-year-old athletes from the 2015 International Triathlon Union Age-group World Championship. Four separate draft-illegal races were analysed (male standard, male sprint, female standard and female sprint). The correlation of individual race disciplines with overall finish time, and the variance accounted for by each discipline was considered. Running had the strongest relationship with finishing time in standard racing. Cycling had the strongest relationship in sprint racing. There were no gender differences in correlations or in the greatest predictors of performance. It was concluded that the importance of running in predicting triathlon performance seen in previous research on standard distance racing is not due to the legality of drafting in the cycle discipline.		[Horne, Mark J.] Amer Int Univ, Mind & Soc Res Ctr, Queens Rd, London TW10 6JP, England; [Horne, Mark J.] Amer Int Univ, Mind & Soc Res Ctr, Queens Rd, London TW10 6JP, England								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100013	24	Article; Article		
J	Gano-Overway, Lori A.; Steele, Enza; Boyce, B. Ann; Whaley, Diane								Exploring relationships between the coach-initiated motivational climate and psychological coping skills over the high school American football season								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			790	794		10.1177/1747954117738873			DEC 2017	2017	This study investigated the relationship between the perceived coach-initiated motivational climate and psychological coping skills over a competitive high school football season as well as changes in perceptions of the climate over the season. Near the beginning (Time 1) and end of the season (Time 2), 101 players from five competitive high school American football programs completed the Perceived Motivational Climate in Sport Questionnaire-2 and the Athletic Coping Skill Inventory-28. A hierarchical linear regression revealed that Time 2 task-involving climate predicted Time 2 psychological coping skills when controlling for Time 1 psychological coping skills. Repeated measure multivariate analysis of variance results demonstrated that players perceived a decrease in the task-involving climate and an increase in the ego-involving climate over the course of the competitive season. These results add to the research on the positive role of a task-involving climate in the sport domain. Additionally, this research provides insight into how perceptions of the coach-initiated motivational climate can shift over the course of the competitive season.		[Gano-Overway, Lori A.] Bridgewater Coll, Dept Hlth & Human Sci, 402 East Coll St, Bridgewater, VA 22812 USA; [Steele, Enza] Lynchburg Coll, Dept Hlth & Phys Educ, Lynchburg, VA 24501 USA; [Boyce, B. Ann] Univ Virginia, Kinesiol Dept, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Whaley, Diane] Univ Virginia, Fdn & Policy Dept, Educ Leadership, Charlottesville, VA USA; [Gano-Overway, Lori A.] Bridgewater Coll, Dept Hlth & Human Sci, 402 East Coll St, Bridgewater, VA 22812 USA								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100010	14	Article; Article		
J	Secomb, Josh L.; Farley, Oliver R.; Nimphius, Sophia; Lundgren, Lina; Tran, Tai T.; Sheppard, Jeremy M.								The training-specific adaptations resulting from resistance training, gymnastics and plyometric training, and non-training in adolescent athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			762	773		10.1177/1747954117727810			DEC 2017	2017	Although previous research has investigated the training-specific adaptations to training in adults, there is a paucity of research aimed at investigating these adaptations in adolescent athletes. As such, adolescent athletes' training-specific adaptations from three different training interventions were investigated in this study. Sixteen adolescent athletes participated in this study, whereby eight performed both training interventions and eight the non-training control. Pre- and post-testing was performed for each intervention with the testing battery: ultrasonography of the vastus lateralis and lateral gastrocnemius, countermovement jump, squat jump, and isometric mid-thigh pull. The resistance training group had large significant increases in isometric mid-thigh pull relative peak force (p<0.01, g=0.85 (-0.01, 1.71)) and vastus lateralis fascicle length (p=0.04, g=0.94 (0.07, 1.80)). The gymnastics and plyometric group demonstrated large significant changes in vastus lateralis pennation angle (p=0.03, g=-0.94 (-1.81, -0.08)) and fascicle length (p=0.03, g=1.07 (0.19, 1.95)), and moderate significant increases in lateral gastrocnemius thickness (p=0.01, g=0.63 (-0.21, 1.47)) and eccentric leg stiffness (p=0.03, g=0.60 (-0.24, 1.44)). No significant changes were observed for any variables in the non-training group. The resistance training evoked increases in lower-body force producing capabilities, whereas the gymnastics and plyometric training evoked changes in muscle structure and inherent muscle qualities.		[Secomb, Josh L.] Queensland Acad Sport, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Secomb, Josh L.; Nimphius, Sophia; Sheppard, Jeremy M.] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sport Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Farley, Oliver R.] Auckland Univ Technol, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lundgren, Lina] Halmstad Univ, Halmstad, Sweden; [Tran, Tai T.; Sheppard, Jeremy M.] Canadian Sports Inst Pacific, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Secomb, Josh L.] Queensland Acad Sport, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100007	40	Article; Article		
J	Hendricks, Sharief; Sarembock, Martin; Jones, Ben; Till, Kevin; Lambert, Mike								The tackle in South African youth rugby union - Gap between coaches' knowledge and training behaviour								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			708	715		10.1177/1747954117738880			DEC 2017	2017	In youth rugby union matches, tackle-related injuries account for 60% of all injuries, 62% of concussion injuries and almost 50% of spinal cord injuries (youth and amateur). Because of this high risk of injury, the inclusion of the tackle in youth rugby has been a topic of discussion in the public and a high priority research area for World Rugby. What a coach knows and his/her attitude toward player safety directly impacts the risk and performance profile of a player. The purpose of this study is to describe the tackle knowledge, attitudes and training behaviours of youth rugby coaches. The entire population of Western Province Rugby Union Premier A1 division (highest level of school rugby) under-19 rugby coaches (n=8) completed a knowledge and attitude questionnaire and 96 field-training sessions were observed over four weeks. Coaches rated tackling (mean 3.9, 95% confidence interval 3.3-4.4), rucking (mean 3.8, 95% confidence interval 3.0-4.5) and ball-carrying (mean 3.6, 95% confidence interval 2.6-4.6) as high-risk of injury facets of play (H=30.8, p<0.001). Coaching proper technique was rated as very important for safety (mean 4.6, 95% confidence interval 4.2-5.0) and performance (mean 4.8, 95% confidence interval 4.4-5.0, U=28, p>0.05). Of the 96 observed training sessions, tackle training was recorded 16% of the time (vs. 84% no tackle training, p<0.001). Coaches were aware of the risk of injury in the tackle and rated the coaching of proper technique of utmost importance. These positive knowledge and attitudes did not transfer into their tackle training. The discrepancy between coaches' tackle knowledge and attitudes, and their training of the tackle might be related to how competent they believe themselves to be in delivering tackle training.		[Hendricks, Sharief; Sarembock, Martin; Lambert, Mike] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Hendricks, Sharief; Jones, Ben; Till, Kevin] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Hlth, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Jones, Ben; Till, Kevin] Yorkshire Carnegie Rugby Union Football Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Lambert, Mike] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Med Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Lambert, Mike] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, EMGO Inst, Med Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Hendricks, Sharief] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, ZA-7725 Newlands, South Africa								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100002	24	Article; Article		
J	Hoigaard, Rune; Haugen, Tommy; Johansen, Bjorn T.; Giske, Rune								Team identity in youth soccer: The role of coaches' feedback patterns and use of humour								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			697	707		10.1177/1747954117738843			DEC 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to empirically examine the relationship between coaches' communication patterns (feedback and use of humour) and team identity in youth soccer. A cross-sectional design was used and participants were 532 soccer players, aged from 13 to 20 years, taking part in a youth soccer tournament, the SOr Cup. Structural Equation Modelling based multiple regression analysis was conducted, and the findings revealed that positive/instructive feedback and coaches' use of humour were positive significant predictors of team identity. Contrary to our expectations, negative/punishment feedback was not significantly related to team identity. The findings are discussed within a social identity framework. It is concluded that positive/instructive feedback and the use of humour are elements that coaches may use to develop the team identity. However, future work is needed to further validate the scales used in this study, and to examine how the use of humour may influence the athlete and the team.		[Hoigaard, Rune; Haugen, Tommy; Johansen, Bjorn T.; Giske, Rune] Univ Agder, Dept Publ Hlth Sport & Nutr, Post Box 422, N-4604 Kristiansand, Norway; [Giske, Rune] Univ Stavanger, Dept Educ & Sport Sci, Stavanger, Norway; [Hoigaard, Rune] Univ Agder, Dept Publ Hlth Sport & Nutr, Post Box 422, N-4604 Kristiansand, Norway								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100001	71	Article; Article		
J	Csataljay, Gabor; James, Nic; Hughes, Mike; Dancs, Henriette								Analysis of influencing factors behind offensive rebounding performance in elite basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	6			774	781		10.1177/1747954117738900			DEC 2017	2017	The aim of the research was to analyse the influencing factors of rebounding efficiency through observing position, activity and number of players struggling for rebounds. Rebounding situations were notated from all the games played by the best eight teams in Euroleague 2011/12. Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney tests were used to demonstrate the differences between variables and logistic regression was employed to find the most influential factor which particularly determined whether a rebound was grabbed by an offensive or a defensive player. The efficiency of offensive performance from actions started with offensive rebounds was higher than from offenses after possession change. The higher efficiency appeared mainly in the higher shooting efficiency and the higher number of forced free throws. The number of offensive players participated in rebounding was identified as the most important factor that influenced the efficiency of offensive rebounding. However the most ideal offensive rebounding was found for the active participation of three players. The lack of boxing out in defence was often notated for the observed teams which contributed the effective offensive rebounding of guards and forwards. The results of the current research support the better understanding of effective offensive rebounding and allow working out a theoretically established offensive rebounding team strategy.		[Csataljay, Gabor] Soproni Szakkepzesi Ctr Vas Es Villamosipari SZKI, Sopron, Hungary; [James, Nic] Middlesex Univ, Sch Sci & Technol, London, England; [Hughes, Mike] Inst Technol, Carlow, Ireland; [Dancs, Henriette] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Budapest, Hungary; [Csataljay, Gabor] Soproni Szakkepzesi Ctr Vas Es Villamosipari SZKI, Sopron, Hungary								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000416360100008	16	Article; Article		
J	Volz, Brian D.								Race and Quarterback Survival in the National Football League								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	8			850	866		10.1177/1527002515609659			DEC 2017	2017	This study examines data from the 2001 to 2009 National Football League (NFL) seasons to determine whether Black quarterbacks face discrimination. When controlling for injury, age, experience, performance, team investment, backup quality, and bye weeks, Black quarterbacks are found to be 1.98-2.46 times more likely to be benched. Marginal evidence is also found that Black quarterbacks face less discrimination in areas with a larger percentage of Black residents. Additionally, it has been observed that when White quarterbacks are benched, the team improves by more than when Black quarterbacks are benched. This provides evidence that there is a cost to this discrimination.		[Volz, Brian D.] Assumption Coll, Dept Econ & Global Studies, 500 Salisbury St, Worcester, MA 01609 USA; [Volz, Brian D.] Assumption Coll, Dept Econ & Global Studies, 500 Salisbury St, Worcester, MA 01609 USA								17							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000414677300005	13	Article; Article		
J	Gooding, Chase; Stephenson, E. Frank								Superstars, Uncertainty of Outcome, and PGA Tour Television Ratings								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	8			867	875		10.1177/1527002516637649			DEC 2017	2017	Using 2010-2013 television ratings data for 33 Professional Golfers' Association Tour events, this article analyzes determinants of audience size. Only one of six measures of uncertainty of outcome based on the leader's margin or the number of golfers within five strokes of the leader is found to be positively correlated with ratings. Instead, ratings are strongly related to certain tournaments, particularly The Masters and the U.S. Open, and to the presence of Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson. Ratings are found to increase by about 50% if Woods is in contention.		[Gooding, Chase; Stephenson, E. Frank] Berry Coll, Dept Econ, Box 5024, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA; [Stephenson, E. Frank] Berry Coll, Dept Econ, Box 5024, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA								18							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000414677300006	19	Article; Article		
J	Simundza, Daniel								Cream Puffs: Why Do Elite College Football Programs Schedule Games Against Vastly Inferior Opponents?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	8			787	802		10.1177/1527002515609664			DEC 2017	2017	This article provides a novel answer to the question of why elite college football programs schedule so-called cream puff games against vastly inferior out-of-conference opponents. Using data on college football games from 2002 to 2010, I find that a team's chances of winning are 5.3-15.6% greater in the game following their victory over a cream puff. In my preferred estimation, this cream puff effect is roughly half as large as the estimated home field advantage. I also show that the U.S. Today/Sagarin rating system, which I use to control for team abilities, penalizes teams for playing vastly inferior opponents. I devise two empirical strategies that deal with this potential problem and show that the cream puff effect is not simply an artifact of the rating system. These results contribute to the literature on dynamic contests by showing that not only does the timing of one's efforts within a contest matter but so does the schedule of one's opponents.		[Simundza, Daniel] Univ Southern Calif, Marshall Sch Business, Dept Finance & Business Econ, Los Angeles, CA 90007 USA; [Simundza, Daniel] Univ Southern Calif, Marshall Sch Business, Dept Finance & Business Econ, Los Angeles, CA 90007 USA								0							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000414677300002	9	Article; Article		
J	Brown, Daniel T.; Link, Charles R.; Rubin, Seth L.								<i>Moneyball</i> After 10 Years: How Have Major League Baseball Salaries Adjusted?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	8			771	786		10.1177/1527002515609665			DEC 2017	2017	Michael Lewis' Moneyball ... describes how the Oakland Athletics exploited an imperfection in the way player productivity was being evaluated pre-2003. On-base percentage appeared to be more important in determining team success compared to more popular statistics. We test the hypothesis that in a competitive market, other teams will increase the weight given on-base percentage in the reward structure for their players. Our results show that in the post-Moneyball (MB) era, the return to on-base percentage has indeed increased for free agents, the group whose salaries we expect to be most affected by the MB philosophy.		[Brown, Daniel T.] Univ Delaware, Ctr Appl Demog & Survey Res, Newark, DE USA; [Link, Charles R.] Univ Delaware, Dept Econ, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Rubin, Seth L.] Analyst Program, Yorktown Hts, NY USA; [Link, Charles R.] Univ Delaware, Dept Econ, Newark, DE 19716 USA								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000414677300001	8	Article; Article		
J	Martin, Candice; Olivier, Benita; Benjamin, Natalie								Asymmetrical abdominal muscle morphometry is present in injury free adolescent cricket pace bowlers: A prospective observational study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				28				34	42		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.08.078			NOV 2017	2017	Objectives: This study aimed to determine if abdominal muscle thickness, activation and symmetry are associated with prospective in-season injury among adolescent cricket pace bowlers. Design: A quantitative, prospective, observational study design was used. Setting: Data was collected at an indoor venue at a secondary school. Participants: 28 injury-free, male, adolescent pace bowlers between the ages of 13 and 18 participated. Main outcome measures: Muscle thickness of the transversus abdominis (TA), internal oblique (10) and external oblique (EO) muscles were measured at rest and during an abdominal drawing-in maneuver (ADIM) i.e. activation, using ultrasound imaging. Incidence of injury was monitored monthly during the cricket season. Results: Thickness of the non-dominant IO at rest was greater than the dominant side for pace bowlers who remained injury free during the cricket season (p = 0.01, effect size (ES) = 0.65). This was, however not the case for bowlers who sustained injuries (p = 0.47; ES = 0.24). TA percentage change during ADIM (activation) on the dominant side was less in bowlers who sustained non-contact injuries compared to those who remained injury free (p = 0.03; ES = 1.17). Conclusions: Asymmetry in IO thickness may play a protective role against injury, whilst poor TA activation on the dominant side may pose a risk to injury. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Martin, Candice; Olivier, Benita; Benjamin, Natalie] Univ Witwatersrand, Dept Physiotherapy, Fac Hlth Sci, 7 York Rd, ZA-2193 Johannesburg, South Africa; [Martin, Candice; Olivier, Benita] Univ Witwatersrand, Dept Physiotherapy, Fac Hlth Sci, 7 York Rd, ZA-2193 Johannesburg, South Africa								16							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415780800006	37	Article; Article		
J	Akuzawa, Hiroshi; Imai, Atsushi; Iizuka, Satoshi; Matsunaga, Naoto; Kaneoka, Koji								The influence of foot position on lower leg muscle activity during a heel raise exercise measured with fine-wire and surface EMG								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				28				23	28		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.08.077			NOV 2017	2017	Objective: Exercises for lower leg muscles are important to improve function. To examine the influence of foot position on lower leg muscle activity during heel raises. Design: Cross-sectional laboratory study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Fourteen healthy men participated in this study. Main outcome measures: The muscle activity levels of the tibialis posterior (TP), peroneus longus (PL), flexor digitorum longus (FDL) and medial gastrocnemius (MG) were measured. The heel raises consisted of three foot positions: 1) neutral, 2) 30 degrees abduction, and 3) 30 degrees adduction. The EMG data for five repetitions of each foot position were normalized to maximum voluntary contraction. One-way repeated measure ANOVA was employed for statistical analysis. Results: The muscle activity level of TP PL and FDL was significantly different between the three foot positions during the heel raises. TP and FDL showed the highest activity level in 30 degrees foot adduction while PL demonstrated the highest activity level in 30 degrees foot abduction. Conclusions: Heel raises with 30 degrees foot adduction and abduction positions can change lower leg muscle activity; These findings suggest that altering foot posture during the heel raise exercise may benefit patients with impaired TP, PL or FDL function. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Akuzawa, Hiroshi; Iizuka, Satoshi; Matsunaga, Naoto] Waseda Univ, Sch Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Imai, Atsushi; Kaneoka, Koji] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan; [Kaneoka, Koji] Waseda Univ, Fac Sport Sci, 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415780800004	31	Article; Article		
J	Macdonald, Ben								An investigation into the immediate effects of pelvic taping on hamstring eccentric force in an elite male sprinter A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				28				15	22		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.08.001			NOV 2017	2017	Background: Hamstring Injuries commonly cause missed training and competition time in elite sports. Injury surveillance studies have demonstrated high injury and re-injury rates, which have not improved across sports despite screening and prevention programmes being commonplace. The most commonly suggested intervention for hamstring prevention and rehabilitation is eccentric strength assessment and training. Case description: This case study describes the management of an elite sprinter with a history of hamstring injury. A multi-variate screening process based around lumbar-pelvic dysfunction and hamstring strength assessment using the Nordbord is employed. The effect of external pelvic compression using a taping technique, on eccentric hamstring strength is evaluated. Outcomes: A persistent eccentric strength asymmetry of 17% was recorded as well as lumbar-pelvic control deficits. Pelvic taping appears to improve load transfer capability across the pelvis, resulting in correction of eccentric strength asymmetry. Discussion: Screening strategies and interventions to prevent hamstring injury have failed to consistently improve injury rates across various sports. In this case study external pelvic compression resulted in normalising eccentric strength deficits assessed using the Nordbord. The inclusion of lumbar-pelvic motor control assessment, in relation to hamstring strength and function, as part of a multi-variate screening strategy requires further research. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Macdonald, Ben] Loughborough Univ, British Athlet, Natl Performance Inst, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England; [Macdonald, Ben] Loughborough Univ, British Athlet, Natl Performance Inst, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England								8							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415780800003	63	Article; Article		
J	Kaldas, Joseph; Bisson, Celine; Hogue, Annie-Claude; Apinis, Catherine; Berbiche, Djamal; Gaudreault, Nathaly								Construct validity and inter-rater reliability of the Gymnastic Functional Measurement Tool in the classification of female competitive gymnasts in Canada								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				28				9	14		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.07.006			NOV 2017	2017	Objectives: To determine the construct validity and the inter-rater reliability of the Gymnastic Functional Measurement Tool (GFMT) within the parameters of the Canadian classification of female competitive gymnasts. Design: Validity and Reliability study. Setting: The GFMT was administered by evaluators who had no previous knowledge of the competing level of the gymnasts. To determine the construct validity, a multiple linear regression analysis was carried out between the GFMT scores and the gymnasts' competition level to obtain the coefficient of determination. To estimate the inter-rater reliability, gymnasts were simultaneously evaluated by two evaluators. Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) analysis was carried out for the individual score of each item as well as for the total score of the GFMT. Participants: Ninety (90) female gymnasts aged between the ages of 8 and 18 years old. Main outcome: GFMT total score and individual score of each item. Results: The study demonstrated an excellent relationship between the total GFMT scores and the gymnasts' competition level (r(2) = 0.97). The inter-rater reliability analysis of the GFMT total score was excellent with an ICC of 0.98. Conclusion: Construct validity and inter-rater reliability of the GFMT in the classification of female competitive gymnasts in Canada has been demonstrated. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kaldas, Joseph; Bisson, Celine; Hogue, Annie-Claude] Physio Dynam, 1200 Rome Blvd,Local A, Brossard, PQ J4W 3H3, Canada; [Apinis, Catherine; Gaudreault, Nathaly] Univ Sherbrooke, Sch Rehabil, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, 3001,12th Ave North, Sherbrooke, PQ J1H 5N4, Canada; [Berbiche, Djamal] Hop Charles LeMoyne, Ctr Rech, 150 Pl Charles LeMoyne,Bur 200, Longueuil, PQ J4K 0A8, Canada; [Gaudreault, Nathaly] Univ Sherbrooke, Sch Rehabil, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, 3001,12th Ave North, Sherbrooke, PQ J1H 5N4, Canada								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415780800002	22	Article; Article		
J	Meurer, Mauricio Couto; Silva, Marcelo Faria; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini								Strategies for injury prevention in Brazilian football: Perceptions of physiotherapists and practices of premier league teams								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				28				1	8		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.07.004			NOV 2017	2017	Objectives: To describe the physiotherapists perceptions and the current practices for injury prevention in elite football (soccer) clubs in Brazil. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Group of Science in Sports & Exercise, Federal University of Healthy Sciences of Porto Alegre (Brazil). Participants: 16 of the 20 football clubs involved in the Brazilian premier league 2015. Main outcome measures: Physiotherapists answered a structured questionnaire. Results: Most physiotherapists (similar to 88%) were active in design, testing and application of prevention programs. Previous injury, muscle imbalance, fatigue, hydration, fitness, diet, sleep/rest and age were considered "very important" or "important" injury risk factors by all respondents. The methods most commonly used to detect athletes' injury risk were: monitoring of biochemical markers (100% of teams), isokinetic dynamometry (81%), questionnaires (75%), functional movement screen (56%), fieximetry (56%) and horizontal jump tests (50%). All clubs used strength training, functional training, core exercises and balance/proprioception exercises in their injury prevention program; and Nordic hamstring exercise and other eccentric exercises were used by 94% of clubs. "FIFA 11+" prevention program was adapted by 88% of clubs. Conclusion: Physiotherapists perceptions and current practices of injury prevention within Brazilian elite football clubs were similar to those employed in developed countries. There remains a gap between clinical practice and scientific evidence in high performance football. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Meurer, Mauricio Couto; Silva, Marcelo Faria; Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre, Grad Program Rehabil Sci, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Baroni, Bruno Manfredini] Fed Univ Hlth Sci Porto Alegre UFCSPA, Sarmento Leite St 245, BR-90050170 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								47							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415780800001	57	Article; Article		
J	Balaguer, Isabel; Duda, Joan L.; Castillo, Isabel								Motivational Antecedents of Well-Being and Health Related Behaviors in Adolescents								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				59	1			121	130		10.1515/hukin-2017-0152			OCT 2017	2017	Grounded in the Achievement Goal Theory framework of motivation and optimal functioning, there were two objectives of this study: (a) to test a model hypothesizing links between personal theories of school achievement, indices of the quality of academic engagement, wellbeing, and health-related behaviors, and (b) to explore whether the hypothesized model was invariant across gender groups. A multisection questionnaire pack tapping the targeted variables was administered to 967 teenagers (475 boys and 492 girls) aged between 11 to 16 years old. Structural equation modeling analysis revealed that Task theory of achievement predicted positively satisfaction in school and negatively boredom in school. An Ego theory of achievement was linked to higher levels of boredom in school. Satisfaction in school corresponded to higher life satisfaction, while boredom was negatively related. Higher life satisfaction was associated with lower tobacco, alcohol and marijuana consumption, more healthy food intake and greater levels of physical activity. The results revealed partial invariance of the model by gender. The quality of adolescents' involvement in the classroom holds important implications for adolescent's well-being and their health related behaviors. Interventions on the creation of a task-involving motivational climate in the school are proposed to promote healthy lifestyles among young people.		[Balaguer, Isabel; Castillo, Isabel] Univ Valencia, Dept Social Psychol, Ave Blasco Ibanez 21, Valencia 46010, Spain; [Duda, Joan L.] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Castillo, Isabel] Univ Valencia, Dept Social Psychol, Ave Blasco Ibanez 21, Valencia 46010, Spain								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418201500011	30	Article; Article		
J	Antonio Sanchez-Miguel, Pedro; Miguel Leo, Francisco; Amado, Diana; Jose Pulido, Juan; Sanchez-Oliva, David								Relationships Between Physical Activity Levels, Self-Identity, Body Dissatisfaction and Motivation Among Spanish High School Students								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				59	1			29	38		10.1515/hukin-2017-0145			OCT 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to examine the relationships between gender and the educational grade on the one hand, and physical activity levels, motivation, self-identity, body dissatisfaction, the intention to be physically active and daily sitting time on the other, in a sample of Spanish high school adolescents. The sample consisted of 2087 Spanish students from the 3rd (n = 1141) and 4th grade (n = 946), both male (n = 1046) and female (n = 1041), ranging in age from 15 to 17 years old (M = 15.42; SD =.86). Students completed questionnaires to assess their levels of physical activity, self-identity, motivation, intention to be physically active and daily sitting time. The students' perceptions of their body height and mass were also tested. With the exception of walking MET values, the results showed gender differences in the variables tested. Male participants showed higher intrinsic motivation and lower amotivation than female participants. Furthermore, male students revealed higher levels of physical activity than female students. Finally, the research concluded with the importance of promoting intrinsic reasons for physical activity in order to encourage positive consequences in high school students.		[Antonio Sanchez-Miguel, Pedro; Miguel Leo, Francisco] Univ Extremadura, Teacher Training Coll, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Amado, Diana; Jose Pulido, Juan; Sanchez-Oliva, David] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sports Sci, Caceres 10003, Spain; [Antonio Sanchez-Miguel, Pedro] Univ Extremadura, Teacher Training Coll, Ave Univ S-N, Caceres 10003, Spain								23							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418201500004	38	Article; Article		
J	Sicilia, Alvaro; Alcaraz-Ibanez, Manuel; Lirola, Maria-Jesus; Burgueno, Rafael								Influence of Goal Contents on Exercise Addiction: Analysing the Mediating Effect of Passion for Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				59	1			143	153		10.1515/hukin-2017-0154			OCT 2017	2017	Based on the self-determination theory (Deci and Ryan, 1985, 2000), the purpose of this study was to examine the effects of exercise goal contents on exercise addiction, taking into account the mediating effects of passion for exercise. A total of 384 university students (284 men and 100 women; M-age = 20.31, SD = 3.10) completed a questionnaire that measured exercise frequency and intensity, exercise goal contents (e.g. intrinsic: social affiliation, health management, skill development; extrinsic: image and social recognition), passion for exercise (e.g. harmonious and obsessive), and exercise addiction. After controlling the exercise frequency and intensity effects, results showed that goal contents did not directly predict exercise addiction. However, mediation analysis showed that goal contents predicted addiction through passion for exercise. These results support a motivational sequence in which extrinsic versus intrinsic goals influence exercise addiction because such goals are positively associated with obsessive passion for exercise and negatively associated with harmonious passion.		[Sicilia, Alvaro; Alcaraz-Ibanez, Manuel; Lirola, Maria-Jesus; Burgueno, Rafael] Univ Almeria, Fac Ciencias Educ, Carretera Sacramento S-N, La Canada De San Urbano 04120, Almeria, Spain; [Sicilia, Alvaro] Univ Almeria, Fac Ciencias Educ, Carretera Sacramento S-N, La Canada De San Urbano 04120, Almeria, Spain								17							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418201500013	36	Article; Article		
J	Sekulic, Damir; Zenic, Natasa; Versic, Sime; Maric, Dora; Gabrilo, Goran; Jelicic, Mario								The Prevalence and Covariates of Potential Doping Behavior in Kickboxing; Analysis Among High-Level Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				59	1			67	77		10.1515/hukin-2017-0148			OCT 2017	2017	The official reports on doping behavior in kickboxing are alarming, but there have been no empirical studies that examined this problem directly. The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence, gender differences and covariates of potential-doping-behavior, in kickboxing athletes. A total of 130 high-level kickboxing athletes (92 males, 21.37 +/- 4.83 years of age, 8.39 +/- 5.73 years of training experience; 38 women, 20.31 +/- 2.94 years of age; 9.84 +/- 4.74 years of training experience) completed questionnaires to study covariates and potential-doping behavior. The covariates were: sport factors (i.e. experience, success), doping-related factors (i.e. opinion about penalties for doping users, number of doping testing, potential-doping-behavior, etc.), sociodemographic variables, task-and ego-motivation, knowledge on sports nutrition, and knowledge on doping. Gender-based differences were established by independent ttests, and the Mann-Whitney test. Multinomial logistic regression analyses were performed to define the relationships between covariates and a tendency toward potential-doping behavior (positive tendency - neutral - negative tendency). The potential-doping behavior was higher in those athletes who perceived kickboxing as doping contaminated sport. The more experienced kickboxers were associated with positive intention toward potential-doping behavior. Positive intention toward potential-doping behavior was lower in those who had better knowledge on sports nutrition. The task-and ego-motivation were not associated to potential-doping behavior. Because of the high potential-doping-behavior (less than 50% of athletes showed a negative tendency toward doping), and similar prevalence of potential-doping behavior between genders, this study highlights the necessity of a systematic anti-doping campaign in kickboxing. Future studies should investigate motivational variables as being potentially related to doping behavior in younger kickboxers.		[Sekulic, Damir; Zenic, Natasa; Gabrilo, Goran; Jelicic, Mario] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Teslina 6, Split 21000, Croatia; [Versic, Sime] Univ Split, Univ Sports Federat, Split, Croatia; [Maric, Dora] Taekwondo Club Energy, Split, Croatia; [Sekulic, Damir] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Teslina 6, Split 21000, Croatia								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418201500007	26	Article; Article		
J	Fernandez-Rio, Javier; Cecchini, Jose A.; Mendez-Gimenez, Antonio								Does Context, Practice or Competition Affect Female Athletes' Achievement Goal Dominance, Goal Pursuit, Burnout and Motivation?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				59	1			91	105		10.1515/hukin-2017-0150			OCT 2017	2017	The goal of this study was to assess the effects of two different achievement sport contexts, practice and competition, on the motivational profile of professional/semi-professional athletes. Forty-eight Spanish national/international-level female athletes (basketball = 18; handball = 12; soccer = 11; volleyball = 7), mean age 25.14 +/- 3.43 years, agreed to participate in the study. They completed a questionnaire, prior and after training and competition, to assess achievement goals, achievement goal dominance, goal pursuit, motivational climate, motivation, burnout and perceived recovery-exertion. Data analyses revealed that, both in practice and competition, these team-sport athletes overwhelmingly showed a strong mastery-approach achievement goal in dominance as well as in pursuit. A significant finding was that this group of national/international-level, professional/semi-professional athletes not only adopted a mastery-approach achievement goal, but they also actively pursued it. It is also remarkable that this profile remained stable at post-tests, even after a painful defeat in competition, which produced a significant negative effect on the athletes' burnout (emotional and physical exhaustion and devaluation of sport participation) and self-determined motivation. As expected, the difference between total recovery and perceived exertion significantly increased after practice and competition. National/international-level team-sport professional/semi-professional female athletes held and pursue stable mastery-approach goal dominance.		[Fernandez-Rio, Javier; Cecchini, Jose A.; Mendez-Gimenez, Antonio] Univ Oviedo, Fac Teacher Training & Educ, Dept Educ Sci, C Aniceto Sela S-N,Despacho 219, Oviedo 33005, Spain; [Fernandez-Rio, Javier] Univ Oviedo, Fac Teacher Training & Educ, Dept Educ Sci, C Aniceto Sela S-N,Despacho 219, Oviedo 33005, Spain								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000418201500009	49	Article; Article		
J	Driller, Matthew; Tavares, Francisco; McMaster, Daniel; O'Donnell, Shannon								Assessing a smartphone application to measure counter-movement jumps in recreational athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			661	664		10.1177/1747954117727846			OCT 2017	2017	The use of counter-movement jumps as a measure of neuromuscular performance in athletes has become common in the sport setting. Accurate methods of measuring jump parameters are often expensive, difficult to transport and require expert knowledge. A new smartphone application (My Jump) claims to be a valid and reliable tool for assessing jump height but is yet to be evaluated by independent researchers. Sixty-one recreational athletes (30 male/31 female, mean +/- SD; age: 20 +/- 4 years) each performed three counter-movement jumps (totalling 183 jumps) on a force plate following a standardised warm-up. All jumps were recorded using an iPhone 6s and analysed for jump height (m) and flight time (s) using the My Jump application. Jumps were compared between a force plate and My Jump for validity with inter-scorer reliability also assessed. Results show that My Jump is valid (mean bias=0.9 cm, r = 0.96) and reliable (typical error of estimate = 1.4 cm) for assessing jump performance in recreational athletes using an iPhone 6s with a 240 Hz high-speed camera. My Jump is a cost-effective and easy-to-use alternative for measuring vertical jump performance without the need for specialist equipment or expertise.		[Driller, Matthew; Tavares, Francisco; McMaster, Daniel; O'Donnell, Shannon] Univ Waikato, Hlth Sport & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Tavares, Francisco] Chiefs Super Rugby, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Driller, Matthew] Univ Waikato, Hillcrest Rd, Hamilton, New Zealand								42							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400013	8	Article; Article		
J	Haun, Cody T.; Martin, Jeffrey S.; Gleason, Benjamin H.; Kavanaugh, Ashley A.; DeWeese, Brad H.; Stone, Michael H.; Mizuguchi, Satoshi								Static jump test performance is related to back squat strength in athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			653	660		10.1177/1747954117727843			OCT 2017	2017	We examined a static jump test's relationship with back squat strength in collegiate athletes. Forty-one (n = 41) young (aged 20.8 +/- 2.4 years), healthy volunteers reported estimated back squat one-repetition maximums and completed a static jump protocol. The static jump protocol included five loading conditions, and jump height was estimated via flight time from portable contact mats. Loading conditions for males (n = 19) included 0 kg (polyvinylchloride pipe), 20.42 kg, 43.10 kg, 61.25 kg, and 83.94 kg whereas females (n = 22) used 0 kg, 12.70 kg, 20.42 kg, 29.49 kg, and 43.10 kg. Relationships between back squat one-repetition maximums, jump height, ratio (jump height/system mass) at each loading condition, mean jump height and ratio across loading conditions, change in jump height and ratio per condition (JH, Ratio), and performance slope (slope of best fit line for system mass vs. jump height) were evaluated. Amongst all subjects, large (r > 0.70), statistically significant correlations were found between back squat one-repetition maximums and jump height for the two lightest loading conditions, mean jump height, and performance slope. However, relationships varied by sex with mean jump height demonstrating the greatest consistency in both males and females. Mean jump height may be the most practical variable from this static jump protocol for monitoring training adaptations, particularly in relatively homogenous female collegiate athlete populations.		[Haun, Cody T.; Gleason, Benjamin H.; Kavanaugh, Ashley A.; DeWeese, Brad H.; Stone, Michael H.; Mizuguchi, Satoshi] East Tennessee State Univ, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Johnson City, TN 37614 USA; [Haun, Cody T.; Martin, Jeffrey S.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, 301 Wire Rd, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Martin, Jeffrey S.] Edward Via Coll Osteopath Med, Dept Cell Biol & Physiol, Auburn, AL USA; [Haun, Cody T.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, 301 Wire Rd, Auburn, AL 36849 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400012	40	Article; Article		
J	Klaus, Anne; Bradshaw, Ryan; Young, Warren; O'Brien, Brendan; Zois, James								Success in national level junior tennis: Tactical perspectives								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			618	622		10.1177/1747954117727792			OCT 2017	2017	Purpose: Point duration in competitive tennis is becoming shorter, highlighting a greater emphasis on performance of the first strokes of each point, in particular, the performance of the server. Methods: Descriptive measures of the video-based analysis included stroke type, point outcome and stroke position of the first two strokes of the server (service and first shot) during 10 randomly selected sets of competition on hard court. All participants (male; n = 8) were of the age group 14 years and below and competed in national level events. Results: The performance of the first serve is characterized by an in-percentage of 54.6% and an improved chance of winning the point (for the server) following a first serve (55.9%; P < 0.001) compared to a second serve (42.9%). The majority of stroke positions for first-shot winners were located in the central zone of the court (52.1%; P < 0.01). In comparison to the error rate of all examined strokes, we observed an increased error rate of the first shot (16.5% vs. 22.4%; P < 0.01). Conclusion: Contrasting to professionals, juniors produce more first-serve errors and win fewer points directly via the serve. Success in junior tennis relies in minimizing errors within short rallies specifically on the first shot of the server. Coaches of national level junior tennis players should focus on strategies to optimize court position following the serve and service percentage to increase competitive success rate. To achieve this, the server should utilize the serve as a set-up tool, dictating the direction of the returner's return of serve within the central zones of the court.		[Klaus, Anne; Zois, James] Victoria Univ, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Ballarat Rd, Footscray, Vic 3011, Australia; [Bradshaw, Ryan; Young, Warren; O'Brien, Brendan] Federat Univ Australia, Fac Hlth, Mt Helen, Australia; [Zois, James] Victoria Univ, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Ballarat Rd, Footscray, Vic 3011, Australia								25							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400008	15	Article; Article		
J	Tan, Terence Yi Hao; Chow, Jia Yi; Duarte, Ricardo; Davids, Keith								Manipulating task constraints shapes emergence of herding tendencies in team games performance								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			595	602		10.1177/1747954117727661			OCT 2017	2017	The herding phenomenon is observed in nature and has been perceived to be less desirable use of space in impacting overall team play performance. The effective manipulating of rules and task constraints might be able to alter herding tendencies in sport performance. The aim of this study was to determine the impact of altering task constraints on herding tendencies, measured with the use of cluster phase analysis, which has also been used to analyse the synchrony exhibited by performers in invasion games such as professional association football matches. In this study, tracking positional data of individual players in a simulated pass and catch game was undertaken, with no specific verbal instructions provided to participants on how and where to move so that emergent behavioural tendencies could be observed. Data revealed how task constraint manipulations impacted on herding tendencies. Manipulation of task constraints revealed higher levels of clustering tendencies in the herding condition compared to the non-herding condition. Within the herding condition, between-team synchrony was also strong, especially in the longitudinal direction. Ball possession also seemed to have some impact on within-team synchrony. Findings provided preliminary evidence on how manipulating task constraints can be effective in altering herding tendencies in team games.		[Tan, Terence Yi Hao] Nanyang Technol Univ, Sport Sci & Management, Singapore, Singapore; [Chow, Jia Yi] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore; [Duarte, Ricardo] Univ Lisbon, Fac Motricidade Humana, CIPER, Lisbon, Portugal; [Davids, Keith] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sports Engn Res, Sheffield, S Yorkshire, England; [Chow, Jia Yi] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400005	14	Article; Article		
J	Owen, Adam L.; Lago-Penas, Carlos; Gomez, Miguel-Angel; Mendes, Bruno; Dellal, Alexandre								Analysis of a training mesocycle and positional quantification in elite European soccer players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			665	676		10.1177/1747954117727851			OCT 2017	2017	Ensuring adequate levels of training and recovery at the elite level of professional soccer to maximise player performance has continued to drive the necessity to monitor the training load and physical training output of soccer players. The aim of this investigation was to analyse a training mesocycle whilst quantifying positional demands imposed on elite European soccer players. Sixteen players were assessed using global positioning systems and ratings of perceived exertion over a competitive training six-week mesocycle period. The positional demands and training loads were analysed in addition to match conditions (match location, match score) and player's age. Results from the investigation revealed that typical daily training loads (i.e. total distance, high-intensity distance, sprint distance, average speed, ratings of perceived exertion) did not differ throughout each week of the mesocycle in-season period. Further analysis revealed training loads were significantly lower on match day-1 when compared to training loads on match day-2, match day-3 and match day-4 preceding a match (p<0.05). Significant differences in physical outputs were also found between match day-2, match day-3 and match day-4 highlighting a structured periodised tapered approach (p < 0.05). Lower average speeds were reported in training post-successful matches compared to defeats (p < 0.05), and more specifically when a match was played away compared to home fixtures (p < 0.05). To conclude, practitioners can maintain a uniformed and structured training load mesocycle whilst inducing variation of the physical outputs during the microcycle phase. Additionally, the investigation also provides a tapering approach that may induce significant variation of the positional demands.		[Owen, Adam L.; Mendes, Bruno] Sport Lisboa & Benfica Sport Sci Dept, BenficaLAB, Lisbon, Portugal; [Owen, Adam L.] Univ Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Ctr Rech & Innovat Sport, Lyon, France; [Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Vigo, Spain; [Gomez, Miguel-Angel] Tech Univ Madrid, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Dellal, Alexandre] OGC Nice, Sport Sci Dept, Lyon, France; [Dellal, Alexandre] Ctr Orthoped Santy, FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Lyon, France; [Owen, Adam L.] Stade Geneve, Routes Jeunes, CH-1227 Geneva, Switzerland								68							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400014	37	Article; Article		
J	Griffin, Jesse A.; McLellan, Christopher P.; Presland, Jarrod; Rathbone, Evelyne; Keogh, Justin W. L.								Quantifying the movement patterns of international women's rugby sevens preparation training camp sessions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			677	684		10.1177/1747954117727884			OCT 2017	2017	Training camps in the present study consisted of four sessions over two to four days, to prepare players for international competitions. Training camps focused on improving the technical and decision making skills in context with team tactics, however it is unknown if the physical demands were being developed or maintained concurrently. Due to the unknown physical demands of training camps, the present study sought to quantify the movement patterns and compare sessions of preparation training camps for international women's rugby sevens players. Twenty-four international female sevens players (age 24 +/- 5 years, height 168 +/- 5 cm, body mass 68 +/- 6 kg; mean +/- SD) were monitored over seven training camps using Global Positioning System units with integrated triaxial accelerometers. Women's sevens players covered a median total distance of 3823 m (relative distance of 44m/min) during training camp sessions that lasted for an average duration of 91 minutes. Sprints occurred 41 times and repeated sprints occurred 14 times during training sessions at a rate of 0.47 sprints per minute and 0.17 repeated sprints per minute. The present study indicated that as a result of the technical and tactical focus of training camps the physical demands maybe insufficient to enhance physiological adaptations. Instead it appears that players are being prepared for upcoming competition by reducing residual fatigue and optimising freshness.		[Griffin, Jesse A.; McLellan, Christopher P.; Rathbone, Evelyne; Keogh, Justin W. L.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, 14 Univ Dr, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia; [Presland, Jarrod] Australian Rugby Union, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] Auckland Univ Technol, Sports Performance Res Ctr New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Fac Sci Hlth Educ & Engn, Sunshine Coast, Australia; [Griffin, Jesse A.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, 14 Univ Dr, Gold Coast, Qld, Australia								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400015	35	Article; Article		
J	Yang, Jonghyun; Park, Youngsoo; Kim, Kitae; Ryu, Je-Kwang								Goalkeeper's position for defending short range shots								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			603	610		10.1177/1747954117727686			OCT 2017	2017	The purpose of the study was to analyze and quantify the ability of the goalkeeper while defending shots from left and right sides of penalty area or the goal area, which frequently occurs in an actual game situation. In other words, the study aimed at verifying the reaction ability of the goalkeeper to defend goals in two different defense positions across a 3m width area without performing dives. Eleven male goalkeepers from a university soccer league participated in the study. The goalkeepers were assigned to react to a specific target point, i.e. high, middle, low, left and right in response to the LED signal positioned at the front. Three-dimensional motion analysis system was used to perform kinematical analysis through which variables such as the approach time of reaching specific target points and the movement used to cover the defensive area were observed. In results, no significant differences were observed in approach time of the hand to the target point in both defense positions, i.e. Type-A (defense posture of positioning the hand at knee height) and Type-B (defense posture of positioning the hand at waist height). But Type-B defense position average velocity was observed faster than Type-A for blocking shots of low-middle heights. Hence, the results obtained from the study showed a possibility that being prepared in Type-A defense position will be more accurate and stable. Moreover, goalkeepers were able to occupy wider defense range in Type-A defense position than Type-B within the time period of 0.7 similar to 0.8s after triggering of the LED signal. In conclusion, the results obtained from the study pointed out that Type-A defense position can be much more effective in soccer for blocking shots from the left and right sides of the penalty area. The defense posture of positioning the hand at low height is considered more effective when defending a ball shot from areas near the penalty area than the high hand position. It was also confirmed that the available defense area can be defended widely and effectively by moving the center of the body. Further studies need to be performed to consider the cognitive perspective by applying various methods.		[Yang, Jonghyun] Korea Inst Curriculum & Evaluat, Div Curriculum & Textboook, Seoul, South Korea; [Yang, Jonghyun] Seoul Natl Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Youngsoo] Korea Football Assoc, Natl Team U20, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Kitae] Seoul Natl Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Ryu, Je-Kwang] Seoul Natl Univ, Inst Cognit Sci, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul 08826, South Korea; [Ryu, Je-Kwang] Seoul Natl Univ, Inst Cognit Sci, 1 Gwanak Ro, Seoul 08826, South Korea								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400006	11	Article; Article		
J	Jokuschies, Nina; Gut, Vanessa; Conzelmann, Achim								Systematizing coaches' 'eye for talent': Player assessments based on expert coaches' subjective talent criteria in top-level youth soccer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	5			565	576		10.1177/1747954117727646			OCT 2017	2017	Although talent selection in professional soccer mainly relies on the subjective judgment of scouts and coaches, little is known to date about top-level soccer coaches' conceptions of talent. Drawing on a constructivist approach, this mixed method study intends to give an in-depth insight into coaches' subjective talent criteria and to investigate the validity and reliability of their player assessments based on these criteria. Five national youth soccer coaches were examined using semistructured inductive interviews and the repertory grid technique. The results reveal experienced soccer coaches' subjective talent criteria and indicate the multidimensional nature of their concepts of talent. There is a high correlation (-.57 <= r(s) <= -.81) between the coaches' assessment of their players based on their own talent criteria and their previous evaluation of these players' overall potential, indicating criterion validity. Repeated evaluations of the players according to a coach's talent criteria display an adequate test-retest reliability over a period of 10 weeks.		[Jokuschies, Nina; Gut, Vanessa; Conzelmann, Achim] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bern, Switzerland; [Jokuschies, Nina] Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland								55							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000412929400002	58	Article; Article		
J	Pedley, Jason S.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Read, Paul; Moore, Isabel S.; Oliver, Jon L.								Drop Jump: A Technical Model for Scientific Application								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	5			36	44		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000331			OCT 2017	2017	Plyometric training has numerous benefits to athletic development. The drop jump is a cornerstone exercise for developing fast stretch-shortening cycle function. The drop jump can also be used as a readiness-to-train marker in practical settings. To assist coaches with athlete development, a technical model for the drop jump is proposed. Verbal instructions provided by the coach have an effect on the kinetics and kinematics of a task performed by an athlete. To assist coaches in fostering effective performance adaptations. Example external cues and analogies are provided to help with optimizing performance development while minimizing injury risk.		[Pedley, Jason S.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Oliver, Jon L.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Waikato, New Zealand; [Read, Paul] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Read, Paul] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport, Youth Phys Dev Grp, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Moore, Isabel S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Grp, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Pedley, Jason S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Ctr, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales								95							Sport Sciences	WOS:000412168400006	98	Article; Article		
J	Gibson, Neil; Williams, Michael; Maitland, Craig; McCunn, Robert								A Framework for Progressing and Regressing Core Training Within Athletic and General Populations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	5			45	50		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000328			OCT 2017	2017	Core training is an essential component of physical preparation programs for athletic populations and a fundamental part of exercise regimes designed to reduce the symptoms of lower back pain within the general population. Although there has been a high degree of research surrounding the core and its involvement in effective movement and injury reduction, scope exists for the development of a model that helps practitioners design appropriate programs with sufficient variation to maintain adherence and enjoyment. This article outlines a simple model for practitioners to follow when designing and modifying training programs designed to target the musculature of the core.		[Gibson, Neil] Heriot Watt Univ, Oriam Scotlands Sports Performance Ctr, Sport Performance & Hlth, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Williams, Michael] Heriot Watt Univ, Oriam Scotlands Sports Performance Ctr, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Williams, Michael] Heart Midlothian Football Club, Acad Football Sci & Med, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Maitland, Craig] Heart Midlothian Football Club, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [McCunn, Robert] Saarland Univ, Inst Sport & Prevent Med, Saarbrucken, Germany; [Gibson, Neil] Heriot Watt Univ, Oriam Scotlands Sports Performance Ctr, Sport Performance & Hlth, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000412168400007	18	Article; Article		
J	Lockie, Robert G.; Lazar, Adrina								Exercise Technique: Applying the Hexagonal Bar to Strength and Power Training								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	5			24	32		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000327			OCT 2017	2017	The hexagonal (hex) bar can often be found in training facilities; this article will describe how this equipment could be incorporated in the strength and power training of athletes. The unique bar design means that the hex bar could be used for different exercises, including the deadlift, farmer's walk, and jump squat. The literature regarding these exercises will be discussed, and this information will be used to demonstrate practical application for the strength and conditioning professional. In addition, the required execution for the low- and high-handle hex bar deadlift, hex bar farmer's walk, and hex bar jump squat will be documented.		[Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Lazar, Adrina] Calif State Univ Northridge, Dept Kinesiol, Northridge, CA 91330 USA; [Lockie, Robert G.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000412168400004	49	Article; Article		
J	Ribeiro, Alex S.; Schoenfeld, Brad J.; Nunes, Joao P.								Large and Small Muscles in Resistance Training: Is It Time for a Better Definition?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	5			33	35		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000333			OCT 2017	2017	Many studies have misapplied the definition of muscle volume with respect to classifying muscles as "Small" or "Large." given frequent mis-application of the terms, we propose that they should be classified simply as multi-joint or single-joint exercises. A viable alternative classification would be compound exercises or isolation exercises.		[Ribeiro, Alex S.] Univ Northern Parana, Ctr Res Hlth Sci, Londrina, Brazil; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY, Lehman Coll, Exercise Sci Dept, Bronx, NY USA; [Nunes, Joao P.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Metab Nutr & Exercise Lab, Londrina, Brazil; [Ribeiro, Alex S.] Univ Northern Parana, Ctr Res Hlth Sci, Londrina, Brazil								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000412168400005	21	Article; Article		
J	Blagrove, Richard C.; Bruinvels, Georgie; Read, Paul								Early Sport Specialization and Intensive Training in Adolescent Female Athletes: Risks and Recommendations								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	5			14	23		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000315			OCT 2017	2017	Early sport specialization is often characterized by intensive training and is becoming increasingly common. Adolescent female athletes, who train excessively and adopt poor diets, are at risk of the female athlete triad, overuse injury, mental health issues, and over-training. The occurrence of one or more of these issues can lead to early retirement from sport and may have serious long-term health consequences. Practitioners working with young females are recommended to adopt a holistic approach to the development of their athletes, including participation in a diverse range of sports, monitoring health status, and ensuring caloric intake meets the demands of the athlete's lifestyle.		[Blagrove, Richard C.] Birmingham City Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Blagrove, Richard C.] Northumbria Univ, Div Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Bruinvels, Georgie] UCL, Div Surg & Intervent Sci, London, England; [Bruinvels, Georgie] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [Bruinvels, Georgie] Natl Univ Ireland, Orreco Ltd, Business Innovat Ctr, Galway, Ireland; [Read, Paul] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Read, Paul] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Sch Sport, Youth Phys Dev Unit, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Blagrove, Richard C.] Birmingham City Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Blagrove, Richard C.] Northumbria Univ, Div Sport Exercise & Rehabil, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000412168400003	98	Article; Article		
J	del Corral, Julio; Maroto, Andres; Gallardo, Andres								Are Former Professional Athletes and Native Better Coaches? Evidence From Spanish Basketball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	7			698	719		10.1177/1527002515595266			OCT 2017	2017	This article analyzes the efficiency of coaches in the Top Spanish Basketball League and what determines this efficiency. To accomplish this, a stochastic production function is estimated. Among others, the inefficiency determinants considered are whether the coach is an ex-professional player and whether he is from Spain. The results demonstrate that foreign coaches are more efficient. To build upon these results, a new approach to estimate the efficiency of coaches, in which efficiency is obtained by comparing their performance with expectations attained from betting odds, is proposed. The results were principally reinforced.		[del Corral, Julio] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Ciudad Real, Spain; [Gallardo, Andres] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Business & Management, Ciudad Real, Spain; [Maroto, Andres] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Madrid, Spain; [del Corral, Julio] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Ciudad Real, Spain								15							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000410993400003	45	Article; Article		
J	Hirschmann, David								May Increasing Doping Sanctions Discourage Entry to the Competition?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	7			720	736		10.1177/1527002515595265			OCT 2017	2017	This article shows that under certain circumstances, an increase in doping sanctions can decrease the number of participants in the competition. The model, which is based on a work of Haugen, is formulated as a two-stage game in which agents first decide whether to participate in a competition and second whether to use an illicit but effective drug when competing. If initially low sanctions are increased but do not prevent a certain overall level of doping, then the payoff for all athletes is reduced, which, in turn, reduces their willingness to participate in the competition.		[Hirschmann, David] Univ Vienna, Oskar Morgenstern Pl1, A-1090 Vienna, Austria; [Hirschmann, David] Univ Vienna, Oskar Morgenstern Pl1, A-1090 Vienna, Austria								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000410993400004	21	Article; Article		
J	Radoman, Mihailo								Labor Market Implications of Institutional Changes in European Football: The Bosman Ruling and Its Effect on Productivity and Career Duration of Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	7			651	672		10.1177/1527002515594555			OCT 2017	2017	This article analyzes the impact of policy changes, with a specific focus on the Bosman ruling, on the competitive nature of new entrants to the English Premier League. Relevant labor economics literature motivates the prediction that post-Bosman entrants will be more productive and consequently have a higher probability of earning/retaining a first-team spot in top European leagues. To test these predictions, proprietary data were collected on all players who entered the English Premier League in 4-year windows around the Bosman ruling. Regression discontinuity design displays evident discontinuity in player productivity parameters around the ruling, and the ability to decompose the treatment effect among subgroups of players identifies an incentive effect of increased competition for foreign players. Strong and robust empirical support for the motivating predictions is also established through the application of survival analysis indicating that post-Bosman entrants are dominant in terms of career duration to their pre-Bosman counterparts. Robustness of the results is established by controlling for relegated players through the application of stratified duration models and by testing for endogeneity bias for the productivity parameters employed.		[Radoman, Mihailo] Carleton Univ, Dept Econ, 1125 Colonel By Dr, Ottawa, ON K1S 5B6, Canada; [Radoman, Mihailo] Carleton Univ, Dept Econ, 1125 Colonel By Dr, Ottawa, ON K1S 5B6, Canada								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000410993400001	17	Article; Article		
J	Boucher, Brenda; Smith-Young, Brandi								Examination and physical therapy management of a young gymnast with bilateral wrist pain: A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				27				38	49		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.03.002			SEP 2017	2017	Background: Wrist pain associated with weight-bearing gymnastic activities may be linked to musculoskeletal impairments, faulty movement patterns, and poor training techniques. Inadequate proximal control may adversely impact the loading mechanics throughout the upper extremities and contribute to a gymnast's, complaint of wrist pain. The purpose of this case report is to describe the management of a young gymnast with primary complaint of bilateral wrist pain associated with upper extremity weight bearing activities. Case Description: A 10 year-old male gymnast presented with a 6-month history of bilateral wrist pain aggravated by weight-bearing gymnastic activities. Based on the findings from a physical therapy examination, a 3-stage progressive rehabilitation program was designed using an impairment-based, multi-modal approach to treat key musculoskeletal impairments and movement deficiencies. Consistent with the principle of activity simulation, treatment targeted areas of weakness considered key to activity performance and included a progression of exercises and techniques that simulated activities reported by the gymnast to be painful. Outcomes: The gymnast was treated for 11 visits over 8 weeks. He demonstrated improved strength, motor control, and self-reported outcome scores that allowed pain-free return to all gymnastic activities. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Boucher, Brenda] Texas State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 601 Univ Dr, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Smith-Young, Brandi] Perfect 10 0 Phys Therapy, 4311 Kilgore Lane, Austin, TX 78727 USA; [Boucher, Brenda] Texas State Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, 601 Univ Dr, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000411851900007	57	Article; Article		
J	Levinger, Pazit; Hallam, Karen; Fraser, Darren; Pile, Rebecca; Ardern, Clare; Moreira, Brett; Talbot, Simon								A novel web-support intervention to promote recovery following Anterior Cruciate Ligament reconstruction: A pilot randomised controlled trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				27				29	37		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.06.001			SEP 2017	2017	Background: Self-efficacy is positively associated with adherence behaviours and rehabilitation outcomes following Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) reconstruction. An internet resource can be an effective way to provide information, goal setting, patient monitoring and hence support overall self management. Purpose: This study examined the feasibility of a three month Internet-based intervention' (mobile oriented site) to enhance recovery for patients, following ACL reconstruction. The potential effect of the internet-based intervention on knee pain, function, self-efficacy and fear of pain were also assessed. Method: This was a pilot randomised controlled trial (RCT) with pre and post intervention design (assessments at one week and three months following ACL reconstruction) comparing: (1) a control group and (2) an intervention group (internet-based intervention). A set of qualitative and quantitative assessments were included to evaluate potential improvements in self-efficacy, pain and function and perception of the internet intervention. Results and conclusion: Seventeen participants were available for analysis (n =10 intervention and n = 7 control group). Participants reported the internet-based intervention to be a useful tool for information, reminder and reinforcement for performing their exercise rehabilitation with 30.3% ( 35.3%) adherence to the internet-based intervention. No differences were observed between the groups over time on the outcome questionnaires (p > 0.05). Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ANZCTR): ACTRN12616001379404. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Levinger, Pazit] Victoria Univ, ISEAL, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, POB 14428, Melbourne, Vic 8001, Australia; [Levinger, Pazit] Australian Inst Musculoskeletal Sci AIMSS, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Hallam, Karen] Victoria Univ, Coll Hlth & Biomed, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Fraser, Darren; Pile, Rebecca; Moreira, Brett; Talbot, Simon] Western Hosp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Ardern, Clare] Linkoping Univ, Div Physiotherapy, S-58183 Linkoping, Sweden; [Ardern, Clare] La Trobe Univ, Sch Allied Hlth, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Levinger, Pazit] Victoria Univ, ISEAL, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, POB 14428, Melbourne, Vic 8001, Australia								26							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000411851900006	46	Article; Article		
J	Dale, R. Barry; Gollapalli, Ravi P.; Price, Taylor; Megahee, Katie; Duncan, Morgan; Tolstick, Nick; Ford, Luke								The effect of visual perturbation upon femoral acceleration during the single and bilateral squat								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				27				24	28		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.06.003			SEP 2017	2017	Objectives: Record femoral accelerations using a smartphone accelerometer attached to the distal thigh during single-legged (SLS) and bilateral squats, and each squat condition occurred under two visual conditions: 1) normal vision and 2) visual perturbation with stroboscopic glasses. Design: Repeated-measures cross-over with counter-balanced order for four total conditions. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 22 females and 16 males without lower extremity pathologies. Main outcome measures: 2D video assessment of frontal plane projection angle, composite amplitude index of smartphone accelerometer measurements, and bivariate correlations between these two outcomes. Results: A significant interaction was found for stance x vision as the difference occurred within the SLS stance condition between the visual conditions (Normal: 9.85 +/- 0.06; Stroboscopic: 9.86 +/- 0.07; p = 0.008 with an adjusted alpha of 0.25). Femoral accelerations were not associated (r = -0.07) with 2D video assessment of frontal plane projection angle. Conclusions: Similar to other studies using smartphone accelerometry to assess movement quality, we found that the device could detect movement variation via femoral accelerations during SLS with visual perturbation in healthy individuals. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Dale, R. Barry; Gollapalli, Ravi P.; Price, Taylor; Megahee, Katie; Duncan, Morgan; Tolstick, Nick; Ford, Luke] Univ S Alabama, Mobile, AL 36688 USA; [Dale, R. Barry] Univ S Alabama, Dept Phys Therapy, 5721 Univ Dr North, Mobile, AL 36688 USA								6							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000411851900005	18	Article; Article		
J	Glaviano, Neal R.; Baellow, Andrea; Saliba, Susan								Physical activity levels in individuals with and without patellofemoral pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				27				12	16		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.07.002			SEP 2017	2017	Objectives: Patellofemoral pain (PFP) is a chronic condition that results in long-term subjective and objective impairments. PFP has been identified to result in modification in activity levels, however it is unknown the extent of activity levels in individuals with and without PFP. Design: Case-control study. Participants: 20 individuals with PFP and 20 healthy individuals. Main outcome measures: Physical activity was assessed by steps per day, minutes of mild, moderate, and high activity over 14 consecutive days. Anterior Knee Pain Scale (AMPS), worst pain in last week (WVAS), and Fear Avoidance Belief Questionnaire (FABQ) were also collected. Paired t-tests were used to compare variables between groups. Pearson r correlations were conducted to evaluate relationships between subjective function and activity level. Results: Individuals with PFP took less steps per day (p = 0.004) and completed less daily minutes of mild activity (p = 0.007) and high activity (p = 0.012). Significant correlations were seen between steps per day and subjective function: AMPS (p = 0.002), WVAS (p = 0.016), and FABQ (p = 0.002) in the PFP population. Conclusion: Individuals with PFP are less physically active than their healthy counterparts in both steps per day and minutes spent conducting physical activity. A relationship between subjective function and physical activity exists in individuals with PFP. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil, Mailstop 119, Toledo, OH 43606 USA; [Baellow, Andrea; Saliba, Susan] Univ Virginia, Curry Sch Educ, Dept Kinesiol, Charlottesville, VA 22903 USA; [Glaviano, Neal R.] Univ Toledo, Sch Exercise & Rehabil, Mailstop 119, Toledo, OH 43606 USA								97							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000411851900003	31	Article; Article		
J	Creaby, Mark W.; Le Rossignol, Scott; Conway, Zachary J.; Ageberg, Eva; Sweeney, Matthew; Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich								Frontal plane kinematics predict three-dimensional hip adduction during running								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				27				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.05.005			SEP 2017	2017	Objectives: To investigate if frontal plane kinematics are predictive of three dimensional (3D) hip adduction and hip internal rotation during running. Study design: Cross-sectional. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Participants: Thirty healthy male runners aged 18-45 years. Main outcome measures: Two dimensional (2D) angles in the frontal plane (peak pelvic obliquity, peak hip adduction, peak femoral valgus, peak knee valgus and peak tibial valgus) and 3D hip adduction and hip internal rotation during stance phase of running were obtained. Results: Linear regression modelling revealed that peak 2D pelvic obliquity (a drop towards the contralateral leg) and peak femoral valgus significantly predicted 88% of the variance in peak 3D hip adduction (p < 0.001). Frontal plane kinematics however, were not predictive of peak hip internal rotation in 3D (p > 0.05). Conclusions: Frontal plane kinematics, specifically contralateral pelvic drop and femoral valgus, predicted the vast majority of the variance in 3D hip adduction during the stance phase of running. This indicates that 2D video may have potential as a clinically feasible proxy for measurement of peak 3D hip adduction a risk factor for patellofemoral pain. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Creaby, Mark W.; Le Rossignol, Scott; Conway, Zachary J.; Sweeney, Matthew] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Ageberg, Eva] Lund Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Lund, Sweden; [Smith, Melinda M. Franettovich] Australian Catholic Univ, Ctr Musculoskeletal Res, Mary MacKillop Inst Hlth Res, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Creaby, Mark W.] Australian Catholic Univ, Sch Exercise Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia								4							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000411851900001	36	Article; Article		
J	Ohno, Mahiro; Fujiya, Hiroto; Goto, Katsumasa; Kurosaka, Mitsutoshi; Ogura, Yuji; Yatabe, Kanaka; Kudo, Takaaki; Kobayashi, Hajime; Niki, Hisateru; Musha, Haruki								Long Term Changes in Muscles around the Knee Joint after ACL Resection in Rats: Comparisons of ACL-Resected, Contralateral and Normal Limb								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			429	437					SEP 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate the long-term effects of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) resection on the morphological and contractile characteristics of rectus femoris (RF) and semimembranosus (SM) muscles in both injured and contralateral hindlimbs in rats. Wistar male rats (8-week old) were used. Rats were divided into two groups; ACL-resected and (sham-operated) control groups. Furthermore, right and left limbs of rats in the ACL-resected group were assigned as ACL-resected and contralateral groups, respectively, at 1 day, 1, 4, and 48 weeks after ACL resection. No ACL-resection-associated changes in the mass of both muscles were observed 1 week after ACL resection. On the other hand, ACL-resection-associated reduction on mean fiber cross-sectional area (fiber CSA) in RF muscle lasted 48 weeks after ACL resection. Furthermore, ACL-resection associated increase in fiber composition of type I fiber in RF muscle in contralateral limbs. In addition, long-term effects of ACL resection were observed in both ACL-resected and contralateral limbs. Evidences from this study suggested that ACL resection may cause to change in the morphological (fiber CSA) and contractile (distribution of fiber types) properties of skeletal muscles around the knee joint in not only injured but also contralateral limb. Rehabilitation for quantitative and qualitative muscle changes by ACL resection may be required a special care for a long-term period.		[Ohno, Mahiro; Fujiya, Hiroto; Goto, Katsumasa; Yatabe, Kanaka; Kudo, Takaaki; Kobayashi, Hajime; Musha, Haruki] St Marianna Univ, Sch Med, Dept Sports Med, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan; [Kurosaka, Mitsutoshi; Ogura, Yuji] St Marianna Univ, Sch Med, Dept Physiol, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan; [Goto, Katsumasa] Toyohashi SOZO Univ, Grad Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Physiol, Toyohashi, Aichi, Japan; [Niki, Hisateru] St Marianna Univ, Sch Med, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan; [Fujiya, Hiroto] St Marianna Univ, Sch Med, Dept Sports Med, Miyamae Ku, 2-16-1 Sugao, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 2168511, Japan								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500017	39	Article; Article		
J	Suchomel, Timothy J.; Sole, Christopher J.								Power-Time Curve Comparison between Weightlifting Derivatives								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			407	413					SEP 2017	2017	This study examined the power production differences between weightlifting derivatives through a comparison of power-time (P-t) curves. Thirteen resistance-trained males performed hang power clean (HPC), jump shrug (JS), and hang high pull (HHP) repetitions at relative loads of 30%, 45%, 65%, and 80% of their one repetition maximum (1RM) HPC. Relative peak power (PPRel), work (W-Rel), and P-t curves were compared. The JS produced greater PPRel than the HPC (p < 0.001, d = 2.53) and the HHP (p < 0.001, d = 2.14). In addition, the HHP PPRel was statistically greater than the HPC (p = 0.008, d = 0.80). Similarly, the JS produced greater W-Rel compared to the HPC (p < 0.001, d = 1.89) and HHP (p < 0.001, d = 1.42). Furthermore, HHP W-Rel was statistically greater than the HPC (p = 0.003, d = 0.73). The P-t profiles of each exercise were similar during the first 80-85% of the movement; however, during the final 15-20% of the movement the P-t profile of the JS was found to be greater than the HPC and HHP. The JS produced greater PPRel and W-Rel compared to the HPC and HHP with large effect size differences. The HHP produced greater PPRel and W-Rel than the HPC with moderate effect size differences. The JS and HHP produced markedly different P-t profiles in the final 15-20% of the movement compared to the HPC. Thus, these exercises may be superior methods of training to enhance PPRel. The greatest differences in PPRel between the JS and HHP and the HPC occurred at lighter loads, suggesting that loads of 30-45% 1RM HPC may provide the best training stimulus when using the JS and HHP. In contrast, loads ranging 65-80% 1RM HPC may provide an optimal stimulus for power production during the HPC.		[Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA; [Sole, Christopher J.] Citadel Mil Coll South Carolina, Dept Hlth Exercise & Sport Sci, Charleston, SC USA; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA								34							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500014	42	Article; Article		
J	Dolezal, Brett A.; Storer, Thomas W.; Neufeld, Eric V.; Smooke, Stephanie; Tseng, Chi-Hong; Cooper, Christopher B.								A Systematic Method to Detect the Metabolic Threshold from Gas Exchange during Incremental Exercise								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			396	406					SEP 2017	2017	Incremental exercise consists of three domains of exercise intensity demarcated by two thresholds. The first of these thresholds, derived from gas exchange measurements, is defined as the metabolic threshold ((V) over dotO(2)theta) above which lactate accumulates. Correctly and reliably identified, (V) over dotO(2)theta is a non-invasive, sub-maximal marker of aerobic function with practical value. This investigation compared variability in selection of (V) over dotO(2)theta among interpreters with different levels of experience as well as from auto-detection algorithms employed by a commercially available metabolic cart (MC). Ten healthy young men performed three replicates of incremental cycle exercise during which gas exchange measurements were collected breath-by-breath. Two experienced interpreters (E) and four novice interpreters (N) determined (V) over dotO(2)theta from plots of specific response variables. Interpreters noted methods used and confidence in their selections. (V) over dotO(2)theta was automatically determined by the MC. Interclass correlations indicated that E agreed with each other (mean difference, 21 mL.min(-1)) and with the MC (23 mL.min(-1)), but not with N (-664 to 364 mL.min(-1)); N did not agree among themselves. Despite good overall agreement between E and MC, differences > 500 mL.min(-1) were seen in 50% of individual cases. N expressed unduly higher confidence and used different (V) over dotO(2)theta selection strategies compared with E. Experience and use of a systematic approach is essential for correctly identifying (V) over dotO(2)theta. Current guidelines for exercise testing and interpretation do not include recommendations for such an approach. Data from this study suggests that this may be a serious shortcoming. Until an alternative schema for (V) over dotO(2)theta detection is developed prospectively, strategies based on the present study will give practitioners a systematic and consistent approach to threshold detection.		[Dolezal, Brett A.; Storer, Thomas W.; Neufeld, Eric V.; Smooke, Stephanie; Cooper, Christopher B.] UCLA, David Geffen Sch Med, Exercise Physiol Res Lab, Dept Physiol, Los Angeles, CA 90095 USA; [Dolezal, Brett A.; Storer, Thomas W.; Neufeld, Eric V.; Smooke, Stephanie; Cooper, Christopher B.] UCLA, David Geffen Sch Med, Exercise Physiol Res Lab, Dept Med, Los Angeles, CA 90095 USA; [Tseng, Chi-Hong] UCLA, David Geffen Sch Med, Div Gen Internal Med & Hlth Serv Res, Los Angeles, CA 90095 USA; [Cooper, Christopher B.] UCLA, David Geffen Sch Med, Exercise Physiol Res Lab, Dept Physiol, Los Angeles, CA 90095 USA; [Cooper, Christopher B.] UCLA, David Geffen Sch Med, Exercise Physiol Res Lab, Dept Med, Los Angeles, CA 90095 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500013	37	Article; Article		
J	Tomiya, Shigeto; Kikuchi, Naoki; Nakazato, Koichi								Moderate Intensity Cycling Exercise after Upper Extremity Resistance Training Interferes Response to Muscle Hypertrophy but Not Strength Gains								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			391	395					SEP 2017	2017	The purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of 30-min moderate intensity cycling exercise immediately after upper-body resistance training on the muscle hypertrophy and strength gain. Fourteen subjects were randomly divided between two groups. One group performed moderate intensity (55% of maximum oxygen consumption [VO2max], 30 min) cycle training immediately after arm resistance training as concurrent training (CT; n = 7, age: 21.8 +/- 0.7 years, height: 1.68 +/- 0.06 m, weight: 60.3 +/- 7.4 kg); the second group performed the same endurance and arm RT on separate days as control group (SEP; n=7, age: 22.1 +/- 0.7 years, height: 1.76 +/- 0.05 m, weight: 63.8 +/- 3.6 kg). The supervised progressive RT program was designed to induce muscular hypertrophy (3-5 sets of 10 repetitions) with bilateral arm-curl exercise using 75% of the one repetition maximum (1RM) with 2-min rest intervals. The RT program was performed for 8 weeks, twice per week. Muscle cross-sectional area (CSA), 1RM, and V-O2max were measured pre- and post-training. Significant increases in muscle CSA from pre-to post-training were observed in both the SEP (p = 0.001, effect size [ES] = 0.84) and the CT groups (p = 0.004, ES = 0.45). A significant increase in 1RM from pre-to post-training was observed in the SEP (p = 0.025, ES = 0.91) and CT groups (p = 0.001, ES = 2.38). There were no interaction effects (time x group) for CSA, 1RM, or V-O2max. A significantly higher percentage change of CSA was observed in the SEP group (12.1 +/- 4.9%) compared to the CT group (5.0 +/- 2.7%, p = 0.029), but no significant difference was observed in the 1RM (SEP: 19.8 +/- 16.8%, CT: 24.3 +/- 11.1%). The data suggest that significant improvement of CSA and strength can be expected with progressive resistance training with subsequent endurance exercise performed immediately or on a different day. Changes in CSA might be affected by subsequent cycling exercise after 8 weeks of training.		[Tomiya, Shigeto] Kyorin Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Kikuchi, Naoki] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Dept Training Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Nakazato, Koichi] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Dept Exercise Physiol, Tokyo, Japan; [Kikuchi, Naoki] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Dept Training Sci, Setagaya Ku, 7-1-1 Fukasawa, Tokyo 1588508, Japan								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500012	20	Article; Article		
J	Yfanti, Christina; Tsiokanos, Athanasios; Fatouros, Ioannis G.; Theodorou, Anastasios A.; Deli, Chariklia K.; Koutedakis, Yiannis; Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.								Chronic Eccentric Exercise and Antioxidant Supplementation: Effects on Lipid Profile and Insulin Sensitivity								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			375	382					SEP 2017	2017	Eccentric exercise has been shown to exert beneficial effects in both lipid profile and insulin sensitivity. Antioxidant supplementation during chronic exercise is controversial as it may prevent the physiological training-induced adaptations. The aim of this study was to investigate: 1) the minimum duration of the eccentric exercise training required before changes on metabolic parameters are observed and 2) whether antioxidant supplementation during training would interfere with these adaptations. Sixteen young healthy men were randomized into the Vit group (1 g of vitamin C and 400 IU vitamin E daily) and the placebo (PL) group. Subjects received the supplementation for 9 weeks. During weeks 5-9 all participants went through an eccentric exercise training protocol consisting of two exercise sessions (5 sets of 15 eccentric maximal voluntary contractions) per week. Plasma triglycerides (TG), total cholesterol (TC), high density lipoprotein (HDL), low density lipoprotein (LDL), apolipoproteins (Apo A1, Apo B and Lpa) and insulin sensitivity (HOMA) were assessed before the supplementation (week 0), at weeks 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. TG, TC and LDL were significantly lower compared to pre supplementation at both weeks 8 and 9 (P<0.05) in both groups. HDL was significantly elevated after 4 weeks of training (p < 0.005) in both groups. There was no effect of the antioxidant supplementation in any of the variables. There was no effect of either the training or the supplementation protocol in apolipoproteins levels and insulin sensitivity. A minimum duration of 3 weeks of eccentric exercise training is required before beneficial effects in lipid profile can be observed in healthy young men. Concomitant antioxidant supplementation does not interfere with the training-induced adaptations.		[Yfanti, Christina; Tsiokanos, Athanasios; Fatouros, Ioannis G.; Theodorou, Anastasios A.; Deli, Chariklia K.; Koutedakis, Yiannis; Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.] Univ Thessaly, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Trikala 42100, Greece; [Fatouros, Ioannis G.; Deli, Chariklia K.; Koutedakis, Yiannis; Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.] Inst Res & Technol Thessaly I RE TE TH, Trikala, Greece; [Fatouros, Ioannis G.; Deli, Chariklia K.; Koutedakis, Yiannis; Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.] Ctr Res & Technol Hellas CERTH, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Koutedakis, Yiannis] Univ Wolverhampton, Sch Sports Performing Arts & Leisure, Wolverhampton, W Midlands, England; [Jamurtas, Athanasios Z.] Univ Thessaly, Sch Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Trikala 42100, Greece								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500010	44	Article; Article		
J	del Pilar Vilchez, Maria; De Francisco, Cristina								Reduced Spanish Version of Participation Motives Questionnaire for Exercise and Sport: Psychometric Properties, Social/Sport Differences								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			365	374					SEP 2017	2017	Understanding the motives that influence physical activity participation is important in order to orientate physical activity promotion and increase physical activity levels of practice of the population. Although many instruments been created and validated to measure motives to perform physical activity, one of the most frequently used scales during years is the Participation of Motives Questionnaire (PMQ) by Gill et al. (1983). Unfortunately, despite being so used and translated into many languages, there is no psychometric support for some factors about due to a low internal consistency. The purpose of this research was to present a reduced model of the Spanish version of the PMQ and to analyze the motives for sports participation. The Spanish version of PMQ was applied to participants of both sexes with ages between 12 and 60 years (M = 19.20; SD = 6.37). Factorial validity of the questionnaire was checked using exploratory and confirmatory analyses. Analysis of items and internal consistency of the factors were carried out. Reduced version measures seven dimensions (competition, status, teamwork, energy release, family/peers, skill development and health/fitness) with good values of validity and reliability (Cronbach's Alpha were between 0.713 and 0.879). Different reasons for exercise and sport by sociodemographic variables were found. For example, females practice for exercise and sports for competition and teamwork than males Elite athletes practice more exercise and sport also for teamwork, skills development and health/fitness than amateurs. Finally those who have more experience, practice more physical activity and sport for competition, status and health/fitness.		[del Pilar Vilchez, Maria; De Francisco, Cristina] Catholic Univ Murcia, Fac Social Sci & Commun, 135 Los Jeronimos Ave, Murcia 30107, Spain; [del Pilar Vilchez, Maria] Catholic Univ Murcia, Fac Social Sci & Commun, 135 Los Jeronimos Ave, Murcia 30107, Spain								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500009	44	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Rubin; Zhan, Likui; Sun, Shaoming; Peng, Wei; Sun, Yining								Validity of a Newly-Designed Rectilinear Stepping Ergometer Submaximal Exercise Test to Assess Cardiorespiratory Fitness								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			357	364					SEP 2017	2017	The maximum oxygen uptake ((V) over dot(2) max), determined from graded maximal or submaximal exercise tests, is used to classify the cardiorespiratory fitness level of individuals. The purpose of this study was to examine the validity and reliability of the YMCA submaximal exercise test protocol performed on a newly- designed rectilinear stepping ergometer (RSE) that used up and down reciprocating vertical motion in place of conventional circular motion and giving precise measurement of workload, to determine (V) over dot(2) max in young healthy male adults. Thirty-two young healthy male adults (32 males; age range: 20 - 35 years; height: 1.75 +/- 0.05 m; weight: 67.5 +/- 8.6 kg) firstly participated in a maximal-effort graded exercise test using a cycle ergometer (CE) to directly obtain measured (V) over dot(2) max. Subjects then completed the progressive multistage test on the RSE beginning at 50W and including additional stages of 70, 90, 110, 130, and 150W, and the RSE YMCA submaximal test consisting of a workload increase every 3 minutes until the termination criterion was reached. A metabolic equation was derived from the RSE multistage exercise test to predict oxygen consumption ((V) over dot(2)) from power output (W) during the submaximal exercise test ((V) over dot(2)(mL . min(-1)) = 12.4 x W(watts) + 3.5 mL . kg(-1) min(-1) x M + 160mL . min(-1), R-2 = 0.91, standard error of the estimate (SEE) = 134.8mL . min(-1)). A high correlation was observed between the RSE YMCA estimated (V) over dot(2) max and the CE measured (V) over dot(2) max (r=0.87). The mean difference between estimated and measured (V) over dot(2) max was 2.5 mL . kg(-1) . min(-1), with an SEE of 3.55 mL . kg(-1) . min(-1). The data suggest that the RSE YMCA submaximal exercise test is valid for predicting (V) over dot(2) max in young healthy male adults. The findings show that the rectilinear stepping exercise is an effective submaximal exercise for predicting (V) over dot(2) max. The newly-designed RSE may be potentially further developed as an alternative ergometer for assessing cardiorespiratory fitness and the promotion of personalized health interventions for health care professionals.		[Zhang, Rubin; Peng, Wei] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Intelligent Machines, Hefei, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Rubin; Peng, Wei] Univ Sci & Technol China, Dept Automat, Hefei, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Zhan, Likui; Sun, Shaoming; Sun, Yining] Chinese Acad Sci, Hefei Inst Phys Sci, Hefei 230031, Anhui, Peoples R China; [Sun, Shaoming] Chinese Acad Sci, Hefei Inst Phys Sci, Hefei 230031, Anhui, Peoples R China								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500008	27	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Youngdeok; Lochbaum, Marc								Objectively Measured Physical Activity Levels among Ethnic Minority Children Attending School-Based Afterschool Programs in a High-Poverty Neighborhood								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			350	356					SEP 2017	2017	Ethnic minority children living in high poverty neighborhoods are at high risk of having insufficient physical activity (PA) during school days and, thus, the importance of school as a place to facilitate PA in these underserved children has been largely emphasized. This study examined the levels and patterns of PA in minority children, with particular focus on the relative contributions of regular physical education (PE) and school-based afterschool PA program in promoting moderate-and vigorous-intensity PA (MVPA) during school days. PA data were repeatedly measured using a Polar Active accelerometer across multiple school days (M = 5.3 days per child), from seventy-five ethnic minority children attending a Title I public elementary school in a high-poverty neighborhood in the US. The minutes and percentage of MVPA accumulated during school, PE, and afterschool PA program were compared to the current recommendations (>= 30-min of MVPA during school hours; and >= 50% of MVPA during PE or afterschool PA program) as well as by the demographic characteristics including sex, grade, ethnicity, and weight status using a general linear mixed model that accounts for repeated observations. On average, children spent 41.6 mins (SE = 1.8) of MVPA during school hours and of those, 14.1 mins (SE = 0.6) were contributed during PE. The average proportion of time spent in MVPA during PE was 31.3% (SE = 1.3), which was significantly lower than the recommendation (>= 50% of MVPA), whereas 54.2% (SE = 1.2) of time in afterschool PA program were spent in MVPA. The percentage of monitoring days meeting current recommendations were 69.5% (SE = 0.03), 20.8% (SE = 0.02), and 59.6% (SE = 0.03) for during school, PE, and afterschool PA program, respectively. Our findings highlighted that school-based afterschool PA, in addition to regular PE classes, could be of great benefit to promote PA in minority children during school days. Further research and practice are still needed to increase MVPA during school hours, particularly during PE classes.		[Kim, Youngdeok; Lochbaum, Marc] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Management, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Lochbaum, Marc] KIHU, Res Inst Olymp Sports, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Kim, Youngdeok] Texas Tech Univ, Box 43011 KSM, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500007	39	Article; Article		
J	Chulvi-Medrano, Ivan; Rial, Tamara; Cortell-Tormo, Juan M.; Alakhdar, Yasser; La Scala Teixeira, Caue V.; Masia-Tortosa, Laura; Dorgo, Sandor								Manual Resistance versus Conventional Resistance Training: Impact on Strength and Muscular Endurance in Recreationally Trained Men								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			343	349					SEP 2017	2017	Manual resistance training (MRT) has been widely used in the field of physical therapy. It has also been used as a strength training method due to the accommodating resistance nature of this modality. The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of an 8-week MRT program on maximum strength and muscular endurance in comparison to conventional resistance training in recreationally trained men. Twenty healthy recreationally trained male subjects were recruited and divided into a MRT training group and a conventional training (CT) group. CT group performed bench press and lat pull-down exercises, and the MRT group performed similar movements with resistance provided by a personal trainer. Both groups completed similar training protocol and training load: 2 training sessions weekly for 3 sets of 8 repetitions at an intensity of 8 to 10 on the perceived exertion scale of 0-10. Initial maximum strength differences were not significant between the groups. Neither group showed significant changes in muscular strength or endurance. Despite the statistically non-significant pre-to post differences, a trend for improvement was observed and effect size (ES) calculations indicated greater magnitude of effects for strength and endurance changes in the MRT group in lat pulldown (g=0.84) compared to CT group. Effectiveness of MRT is similar to CT for improving muscular strength and endurance. MRT can be used as a supplemental or alternative strength training modality for recreationally trained subjects, or be considered by personal trainers especially in low equipped facility conditions.		[Chulvi-Medrano, Ivan; Cortell-Tormo, Juan M.] Univ Alicante, Dept Gen & Specif Didact, Alicante, Spain; [Chulvi-Medrano, Ivan; Masia-Tortosa, Laura] Benestar Wellness Ctr, Valencia, Spain; [Rial, Tamara] Int Hypopress & Phys Therapy Inst, Vigo, Spain; [Alakhdar, Yasser] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Therapy, Valencia, Spain; [La Scala Teixeira, Caue V.] Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Dept Biosci, Santos, Brazil; [La Scala Teixeira, Caue V.] Praia Grande Coll, Fac Phys Educ, Praia Grande, Brazil; [Dorgo, Sandor] Univ Texas El Paso, Dept Kinesiol, 1851 Wiggins St, El Paso, TX 79968 USA; [Dorgo, Sandor] Univ Texas El Paso, Dept Kinesiol, 1851 Wiggins St, El Paso, TX 79968 USA								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500006	29	Article; Article		
J	DuPont, William H.; Meuris, Brek J.; Hardesty, Vincent H.; Barnhart, Emily C.; Tompkins, Landon H.; Golden, Morricia J. P.; Usher, Clayton J.; Spence, Paul A.; Caldwell, Lydia K.; Post, Emily M.; Beeler, Matthew K.; Kraemer, William J.								The Effects Combining Cryocompression Therapy following an Acute Bout of Resistance Exercise on Performance and Recovery								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			333	342					SEP 2017	2017	Compression and cold therapy used separately have shown to reduce negative effects of tissue damage. The combining compression and cold therapy (cryocompression) as a single recovery modality has yet to be fully examined. To examine the effects of cryocompression on recovery following a bout of heavy resistance exercise, recreationally resistance trained men (n = 16) were recruited, matched, and randomly assigned to either a cryocompression group (CRC) or control group (CON). Testing was performed before and then immediately after exercise, 60 minutes, 24 hours, and 48 hours after a heavy resistance exercise workout (barbell back squats for 4 sets of 6 reps at 80% 1RM, 90 sec rest between sets, stiff legged deadlifts for 4 sets of 8 reps at 1.0 X body mass with 60 sec rest between sets, 4 sets of 10 eccentric Nordic hamstring curls, 45 sec rest between sets). The CRC group used the CRC system for 20-mins of cryocompression treatment immediately after exercise, 24 hours, and 48 hours after exercise. CON sat quietly for 20-mins at the same time points. Muscle damage [creatine kinase], soreness (visual analog scale, 0-100), pain (McGill Pain Q, 0-5), fatigue, sleep quality, and jump power were significantly (p < 0.05) improved for CRC compared to CON at 24 and 48 hours after exercise. Pain was also significantly lower for CRC compared to CON at 60-mins post exercise. These findings show that cryocompression can enhance recovery and performance following a heavy resistance exercise workout.		[DuPont, William H.; Hardesty, Vincent H.; Barnhart, Emily C.; Golden, Morricia J. P.; Caldwell, Lydia K.; Post, Emily M.; Beeler, Matthew K.; Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, A054 PAES Bldg,305 Annie & John Glenn Ave, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Meuris, Brek J.; Tompkins, Landon H.; Usher, Clayton J.; Spence, Paul A.] Aquilo Sports, Louisville, KY USA; [Kraemer, William J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Human Sci, A054 PAES Bldg,305 Annie & John Glenn Ave, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500005	34	Article; Article		
J	Hsu, Wei-Ting; Li, Hsiu-Hua; Pan, Yi-Hsiang								Student Misbehavior in Physical Education: The Role of 2 x 2 Achievement Goals and Moral Disengagement								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			302	310					SEP 2017	2017	This study aimed to determine whether goal orientations were related to students' self-reported misbehaviors in physical education and to examine whether the effects were mediated by moral disengagement. A two-study project employing structural equation modeling was conducted with high school students (Study 1, n = 287; Study 2, n = 296). In Study 1, the results showed that mastery-avoidance goals were unable to predict five misbehaviors (i.e., aggressive behavior, low engagement, failure to follow directions, poor self-management, and distracting behavior). Mastery-approach goals negatively predicted low engagement, failure to follow directions, and poor self-management. Performance-approach goals positively predicted aggressive and distracting behaviors, while performance-avoidance goals positively predicted all five misbehaviors. In Study 2, the results indicated that the positive relationships between performance-approach goals and misbehaviors and between performance-avoidance goals and misbehaviors were mediated by moral disengagement. These results are discussed in terms of the model of achievement goals, and implications for physical education are also highlighted.		[Hsu, Wei-Ting] Fo Guang Univ, Ctr Gen Educ, Jiaoxi, Taiwan; [Li, Hsiu-Hua] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Dept Sport Promot, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Pan, Yi-Hsiang] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Phys Educ, 250 Wen Hwa 1st Rd, Taoyuan, Taiwan; [Pan, Yi-Hsiang] Natl Taiwan Sport Univ, Grad Inst Phys Educ, 250 Wen Hwa 1st Rd, Taoyuan, Taiwan								14							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500001	38	Article; Article		
J	Girard, Olivier; Millet, Gregoire P.; Morin, Jean-Benoit; Brocherie, Franck								Does "Live High-Train Low (and High)" Hypoxic Training Alter Running Mechanics In Elite Team-sport Players?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	3			328	332					SEP 2017	2017	This study aimed to investigate if "Live High-Train Low( and High)" hypoxic training alters constant-velocity running mechanics. While residing under normobaric hypoxia(>= 14 h.d(-1); FiO(2) 14.5-14.2%) for 14 days, twenty field hockey players performed, in addition to their usual training in normoxia, six sessions( 4 x 5 x 5-s maximal sprints; 25 s passive recovery; 5 min rest) under either normobaric hypoxia( FiO(2) similar to 14.5%, n = 9) or normoxia( FiO(2) 20.9%, n = 11). Before and immediately after the intervention, their running pattern was assessed at 10 and 15 km.h(-1) as well as during six 30-s runs at similar to 20 km.h(-1) with 30-s passive recovery on an instrumented motorised treadmill. No clear changes in running kinematics and spring-mass parameters occurred globally either at 10, 15 or similar to 20 km.h(-1), with also no significant time x condition interaction for any parameters( p > 0.14). Independently of the condition, heart rate( all p < 0.05) and ratings of perceived exertion decreased post-intervention ( only at 15 km.h(-1), p < 0.05). Despite indirect signs for improved psycho-physiological responses, no forthright change in stride mechanical pattern occurred after " Live High-Train Low ( and High)" hypoxic training.		[Girard, Olivier] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, POB 29222, Doha, Qatar; [Girard, Olivier; Millet, Gregoire P.; Brocherie, Franck] Univ Lausanne, ISSUL, Inst Sports Sci, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Morin, Jean-Benoit] Univ Cote Azur, LAMHESS, Nice, France; [Brocherie, Franck] French Inst Sport INSEP, Res Dept, Lab Sport Expertise & Performance, EA 7370, Paris, France; [Girard, Olivier] Aspetar Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, POB 29222, Doha, Qatar								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407360500004	18	Article; Article		
J	Zahalka, Frantisek; Maly, Tomas; Mala, Lucia; Ejem, Miloslav; Zawartka, Marek								Kinematic Analysis of Volleyball Attack in the Net Center with Various Types of Take-Off								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			261	271		10.1515/hukin-2017-0115			SEP 2017	2017	The aim of the study was to describe and compare kinematics in two types of execution of attack hit, the goofy approach and regular approach. The research group consisted of players from the Czech Republic's top league (n = 12, age 28.0 +/- 4.3 years, body height 196.6 +/- 5.6 cm, body mass 89.7 +/- 6.7 kg) divided into two groups according to the individual type of approach in the attack. Analysis of movement was performed by 3D kinematics video analysis, space coordinates were calculated by the DLT (Direct Linear Transformation) method together with interpretation software TEMA Bio 2.3 (Image Systems AB, Sweden). The players started their run-up from a distance of about 4 - 4.5 m from the net with similar maximal vertical velocity (2.91 - 2.96 m.s(-1)). The trajectory of players with goofy approach seemed to be convenient for the rotation of shoulders and hips in the moment of ball contact. Differences between both groups were observed. Players with a goofy approach had a longer flight phase compared to regularly approaching players.		[Zahalka, Frantisek; Maly, Tomas; Mala, Lucia; Ejem, Miloslav] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Sports Res Ctr, J Martiho 31, Prague 6, Czech Republic; [Zawartka, Marek] J Kukuczka Acad Phys Educ Katowice, Fac Internal Secur, Katowice, Poland; [Zahalka, Frantisek] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sports, Sports Res Ctr, J Martiho 31, Prague 6, Czech Republic								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600024	24	Article; Article		
J	Pearce, Leesa; Woods, Carl; Sinclair, Wade; Leicht, Anthony								Officiating Role Influences the Physical Match Activity Profiles of Rugby League Touch Judges and Referees								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			225	231		10.1515/hukin-2017-0087			SEP 2017	2017	This study investigated the effect of the officiating role on physical activity profiles of rugby league match officials during match-play. Physical performance indicators were collated from 23 match officials, resulting in 78 observations. Match officials were categorised into two groups: referees and touch judges. Microtechnology facilitated the quantification of total distance (m), relative distance (m.min(-1)), maximum velocity (m.s(-1)), the percentage of high intensity running distance (% total >3.01 m.s(-1)), walking distance (< 1 m.s(-1)), jogging distance (1.01 - 3 m.s(-1)), fast jogging distance (3.01 - 5 m.s(-1)), and sprinting distance (>5 m.s(-1)). Multivariate analysis modelled the main effect of the officiating role with follow up univariate analyses identifying significant differences. A significant effect was noted (V = 750; F(8, 66) = 24.71; p < 0.05) with referees covering a greater total distance (7767 +/- 585 vs. 7022 +/- 759 m), relative distance (90 +/- 6 vs. 82 +/- 8 m.min(-1)), jogging distance (3772 +/- 752 vs. 3110 +/- 553 m), and fast jogging distance (2565 +/- 631 vs. 1816 +/- 440 m) compared to touch judges. Touch judges covered greater distances while sprinting (1012 +/- 385 vs. 654 +/- 241 m). Results provide important guidance in the development of training programs for match officials.		[Pearce, Leesa; Woods, Carl; Sinclair, Wade; Leicht, Anthony] James Cook Univ, Port & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Pearce, Leesa] James Cook Univ, Sport & Exercise Sci, Townsville, Qld, Australia								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600021	20	Article; Article		
J	Borges, Paulo Henrique; Guilherme, Jose; Rechenchosky, Leandro; Arantes da Costa, Luciane Cristina; Rinadi, Wilson								Fundamental Tactical Principles of Soccer: a Comparison of Different Age Groups								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			207	214		10.1515/hukin-2017-0078			SEP 2017	2017	The fundamental tactical principles of the game of soccer represent a set of action rules that guide behaviours related to the management of game space. The aim of this study was to compare the performance of fundamental offensive and defensive tactical principles among youth soccer players from 12 to 17 years old. The sample consisted of 3689 tactical actions performed by 48 soccer players in three age categories: under 13 (U-13), under 15 (U-15), and under 17 (U-17). Tactical performance was measured using the System of Tactical Assessment in Soccer (FUT-SAT). The Kruskal Wallis, Mann-Whitney U, Friedman, Wilcoxon, and Cohen's Kappa tests were used in the study analysis. The results showed that the principles of "offensive coverage" (p = 0.01) and "concentration" (p = 0.04) were performed more frequently by the U-17 players than the U-13 players. The tactical principles "width and length" (p < 0.05) and "defensive unit" (p < 0.05) were executed more frequently by younger soccer players. It can be concluded that the frequency with which fundamental tactical principles are performed varies between the gaming categories, which implies that there is valuation of defensive security and a progressive increase in "offensive coverage" caused by increased confidence and security in offensive actions.		[Borges, Paulo Henrique; Rechenchosky, Leandro; Arantes da Costa, Luciane Cristina; Rinadi, Wilson] Univ Estadual Maringa, Dept Phys Educ, St Domingos Miao 309, BR-87023025 Maringa, Parana, Brazil; [Guilherme, Jose] Univ Porto, Fac Sports, Oporto, Portugal; [Borges, Paulo Henrique] Univ Estadual Maringa, Dept Phys Educ, St Domingos Miao 309, BR-87023025 Maringa, Parana, Brazil								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600019	28	Article; Article		
J	Senna, Gilmar Weber; Rodrigues, Bernardo Minelli; Sandy, Daniel; Scudese, Estevao; Bianco, Antonino; Martin Dantas, Estelio Henrique								Heavy vs Light Load Single-Joint Exercise Performance with Different Rest Intervals								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			197	206		10.1515/hukin-2017-0077			SEP 2017	2017	The aim of the study was to compare the effect of three distinct rest period lengths between sets of upper body single-joint exercise with different load zones and volume designed for either endurance or hypertrophy (50% or 80% of 1-RM). Sixteen trained men (20.75 +/- 2.54 years; 76.35 +/- 5.03 kg; 176.75 +/- 3.33 cm, 24.53 +/- 1.47 kg/m(2)) performed a test and retest of 1-RM on non-consecutive days. Forty-eight hours after load testing, the participants were randomly assigned to six sessions consisting of four sets of the triceps pull-down, combining different intensities with distinct rest periods between sets. The shorter 1 minute rest promoted a significant reduction in the total repetition number compared to 3 minute rest for both workloads. There was a difference between 3 and 5 minute conditions for the 50% of 1-RM that did not occur for the 80% of 1-RM condition. Both intensities presented significant interaction values for the rest conditions vs. each set (50% p = 0.0001; 80% p = 0.0001). Additionally, significant values were found for the main effect of the performance of subsequent sets (50% p = 0.003; 80% p = 0.001) and rest conditions (50% p = 0.0001; 80% p = 0.0001). In conclusion, for heavier loads (80%) to fatigue, longer rest of 3 to 5 minutes seems to allow for better recovery between sets and thus, promotes a greater volume. However, when training with lighter loads (50%), the magnitude of the rest seems to directly affect the performance of subsequent sets, and also presents a correlation with total volume achieved for the upper body single-joint exercise scheme.		[Senna, Gilmar Weber; Martin Dantas, Estelio Henrique] Fed Univ State Rio de Janeiro UNIRIO, Nursing & Biosci Postgrad Program PPgEnfBio, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Senna, Gilmar Weber; Rodrigues, Bernardo Minelli; Sandy, Daniel; Scudese, Estevao; Martin Dantas, Estelio Henrique] Fed Univ State Rio de Janeiro UNIRIO, Lab Biosci & Human Movement LABIMH, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Senna, Gilmar Weber; Rodrigues, Bernardo Minelli; Scudese, Estevao; Martin Dantas, Estelio Henrique] Tiradentes Univ UNIT, Lab Biosci & Human Movement LABIMH, Aracaju, SE, Brazil; [Bianco, Antonino] Univ Palermo, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Unit, Via Giovanni Pascoli 6, I-90144 Palermo, Italy; [Bianco, Antonino] Univ Palermo, Sport & Exercise Sci Res Unit, Via Giovanni Pascoli 6, I-90144 Palermo, Italy								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600018	29	Article; Article		
J	Ben-Zaken, Sigal; Meckel, Yoav; Nemet, Dan; Kassem, Eias; Eliakim, Alon								Increased Prevalence of the IL-6-174C Genetic Polymorphism in Long Distance Swimmers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			121	130		10.1515/hukin-2017-0070			SEP 2017	2017	The IL-6 -174G/C single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) functionally affects IL-6 activity, with the G-allele associated with increased IL-6 levels. The C-allele was found to be associated with exercise-induced skeletal muscle damage. The aim of the present study was to examine the association between the IL-6 -174G/C polymorphism and athletic performance among elite swimmers and runners. The study sample included 180 track and field athletes and 80 swimmers. Track and field athletes were assigned to three sub-groups: long-distance runners, middle-distance runners and short-distance runners. Swimmers were assigned to two subgroups: long-distance swimmers and short-distance swimmers. The control group consisted of 123 non-athletic healthy individuals. Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood following a standard protocol. Genotyping was performed using polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The CC genotype and C-allele frequency were significantly higher in the long-distance swimmers (18 and 43%, respectively) compared to the long-distance runners (3 and 14%, respectively, p < 0.001); middle-distance runners (4 and 22%, respectively, p < 0.001); and controls (5 and 19%, respectively, p < 0.001). In addition, the CC genotype and C-allele frequency were significantly higher (p < 0.001) in long-distance swimmers compared to short-distance swimmers (18 versus 5% and 43 versus 29% for the CC genotype and C-allele frequency, respectively). The higher frequency of the C-allele and CC genotype among long-distance swimmers suggests that the rarity of exercise-associated rhabdomyolysis among swimmers is probably related to other sports-specific or water-related protective mechanisms. It is possible that swimming selection in talented endurance athletes who are C-allele carriers represents an example of genetically-dependent sports selection.		[Ben-Zaken, Sigal; Meckel, Yoav] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Zinman Coll Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Genet & Mol Biol Lab, Netanya, Israel; [Nemet, Dan; Eliakim, Alon] Tel Aviv Univ, Sackler Sch Med, Pediat Dept, Meir Med Ctr,Child Hlth & Sports Ctr, Tel Aviv, Israel; [Kassem, Eias] Hilel Yaffe Med Ctr, Pediat Dept, Hadera, Israel; [Ben-Zaken, Sigal] Wingate Inst Phys Educ & Sports, Zinman Coll Phys Educ & Sports Sci, IL-42902 Netanya, Israel								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600011	35	Article; Article		
J	Allisse, Maxime; Sercia, Pierre; Comtois, Alain-Steve; Leone, Mario								Morphological, Physiological and Skating Performance Profiles of Male Age-Group Elite Ice Hockey Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			87	97		10.1515/hukin-2017-0085			SEP 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to describe the evolution of morphological, physiological and skating performance profiles of elite age-group ice hockey players based on repeated measures spread over one season. In addition, the results of fitness tests and training programs performed in off-ice conditions and their relationship with skating performance were analyzed. Eighteen high level age-group ice hockey players (13.1 +/- 0.6 years) were assessed off and on-ice at the beginning and at the end of the hockey season. A third evaluation was also conducted at the beginning of the following hockey season. The players were taller, heavier, and showed bone breadths and muscle girths above the reference population of the same age. Muscular variables improved significantly during and between the two hockey seasons (p < 0.05). However, maximal aerobic power improved only during the off-season. All skating performance tests exhibited significant enhancements during the hockey season, but not during the off-season where some degradation was observed. Finally, weak observed variances (generally <20% of the explained variance) between physiological variables measured off-ice and on-ice skating performance tests indicated important gaps, both in the choice of the off-ice assessment tools as well as in training methods conventionally used. The reflection on the best way to assess and train hockey players certainly deserves to be continued.		[Sercia, Pierre; Comtois, Alain-Steve] Univ Quebec, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Allisse, Maxime; Leone, Mario] Univ Quebec Chicoutimi, Saguenay, PQ, Canada; [Leone, Mario] Univ Quebec Chicoutimi, Hlth Sci Dept, Kinesiol Div, 555 Blvd Univ, Chicoutimi, PQ G7N 2B1, Canada								15							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600008	33	Article; Article		
J	Bachero-Mena, Beatriz; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando; Rodriguez-Rosell, David; Manuel Yanez-Garcia, Juan; Mora-Custodio, Ricardo; Jose Gonzalez-Badillo, Juan								Relationships Between Sprint, Jumping and Strength Abilities, and 800 M Performance in Male Athletes of National and International Levels								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			187	195		10.1515/hukin-2017-0076			SEP 2017	2017	This study analysed the relationships between sprinting, jumping and strength abilities, with regard to 800 m running performance. Fourteen athletes of national and international levels in 800 m (personal best: 1:43-1:58 min: ss) completed sprint tests (20 m and 200 m), a countermovement jump, jump squat and full squat test as well as an 800 m race. Significant relationships (p < 0.01) were observed between 800 m performance and sprint tests: 20 m (r = 0.72) and 200 m (r = 0.84). Analysing the 200 m run, the magnitude of the relationship between the first to the last 50 m interval times and the 800 m time tended to increase (1st 50 m: r = 0.71; 2nd 50 m: r = 0.72; 3rd 50 m: r = 0.81; 4th 50 m: r = 0.85). Performance in 800 m also correlated significantly (p < 0.01-0.05) with strength variables: the countermovement jump (r = -0.69), jump squat (r = -0.65), and full squat test (r = -0.58). Performance of 800 m in high-level athletes was related to sprint, strength and jumping abilities, with 200 m and the latest 50 m of the 200 m being the variables that most explained the variance of the 800 m performance.		[Bachero-Mena, Beatriz] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sport, Ctra Utrera,Km 1, Seville 41013, Spain; [Bachero-Mena, Beatriz; Pareja-Blanco, Fernando; Rodriguez-Rosell, David; Manuel Yanez-Garcia, Juan; Mora-Custodio, Ricardo; Jose Gonzalez-Badillo, Juan] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Ctr Invest Rendimiento Fis & Deport, Seville, Spain; [Bachero-Mena, Beatriz] Pablo de Olavide Univ, Fac Sport, Ctra Utrera,Km 1, Seville 41013, Spain								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600017	28	Article; Article		
J	Minano-Espin, Javier; Casais, Luis; Lago-Penas, Carlos; Angel Gomez-Ruano, Miguel								High Speed Running and Sprinting Profiles of Elite Soccer Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			169	176		10.1515/hukin-2017-0086			SEP 2017	2017	Real Madrid was named as the best club of the 20th century by the International Federation of Football History and Statistics. The aim of this study was to compare if players from Real Madrid covered shorter distances than players from the opposing team. One hundred and forty-nine matches including league, cup and UEFA Champions League matches played by the Real Madrid were monitored during the 2001-2002 to the 2006-2007 seasons. Data from both teams (Real Madrid and the opponent) were recorded. Altogether, 2082 physical performance profiles were examined, 1052 from the Real Madrid and 1031 from the opposing team (Central Defenders (CD) = 536, External Defenders (ED) = 491, Central Midfielders (CM) = 544, External Midfielders (EM) = 233, and Forwards (F) = 278). Match performance data were collected using a computerized multiple-camera tracking system (Amisco Pro (R), Nice, France). A repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed for distances covered at different intensities (sprinting (>24.0 km/h) and high-speed running (21.1-24.0 km/h) and the number of sprints (21.1-24.0 km/h and >24.0 km/h) during games for each player sectioned under their positional roles. Players from Real Madrid covered shorter distances in high-speed running and sprint than players from the opposing team (p < 0.01). While ED did not show differences in their physical performance, CD (p < 0.05), CM (p < 0.01), EM (p < 0.01) and F (p > 0.01) from Real Madrid covered shorter distances in high-intensity running and sprint and performed less sprints than their counterparts. Finally, no differences were found in the high-intensity running and sprint distances performed by players from Real Madrid depending on the quality of the opposition.		[Minano-Espin, Javier; Angel Gomez-Ruano, Miguel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Actividad Fis & Deporte, C Martin Fierro 7, E-28040 Madrid, Spain; [Casais, Luis; Lago-Penas, Carlos] Univ Vigo, Fac Ciencias Educ & Deporte, Campus Pontevedra, Vigo, Spain; [Minano-Espin, Javier] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Ciencias Actividad Fis & Deporte, C Martin Fierro 7, E-28040 Madrid, Spain								62							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600015	20	Article; Article		
J	Kite, Christopher S.; Nevill, Alan								The Predictors and Determinants of Inter-Seasonal Success in a Professional Soccer Team								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			157	167		10.1515/hukin-2017-0084			SEP 2017	2017	The aims of this study were to 1) directly compare the performances of a professional soccer team over three seasons, 2) identify key variables that discriminated between a successful or unsuccessful performance, and 3) identify variables that best predicted success. ANOVA revealed that attempted and completed passes were significantly lower (both p < 0.001) in the most successful season (S1). Additionally, shot effectiveness was significantly less (p < 0.001) in their least successful season (S3) (vs S1 -11.61%; d = 0.735; vs S2 -12.02%; d = 0.760). When the match outcome was considered, they attempted significantly fewer passes when they won (-60.26; p = 0.002; d = -0.729) or drew (-44.87; p = 0.023; d = -0.543) compared to when they lost. The binary logistic regression analysis also retained passing variables. The team should attempt fewer passes, but ensure that more of these passes are completed. With away matches, the effect became more pronounced (beta = -0.042, OR = 0.959, p = 0.012). In conclusion, the team should adopt a more direct style of play. They should move the ball into a shooting position with fewer passes and ensure that more shots are on the target.		[Kite, Christopher S.; Nevill, Alan] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Inst Sport, Walsall Campus,Gorway Rd, Walsall WSI 3BD, W Midlands, England; [Kite, Christopher S.] Univ Wolverhampton, Fac Educ Hlth & Wellbeing, Inst Sport, Walsall Campus,Gorway Rd, Walsall WSI 3BD, W Midlands, England								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600014	29	Article; Article		
J	Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto; Delextrat, Anne; Lourenco Martins, Fernando Manuel; Pastor Vicedo, Juan Carlos								Effects of the Sports Level, Format of the Game and Task Condition on Heart Rate Responses, Technical and Tactical Performance of Youth Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			141	155		10.1515/hukin-2017-0080			SEP 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to analyze the effect of different small-sided and conditioning games (SSCG) with different tactical contents on heart rate responses, technical performance and collective organization of youth basketball players of different performance levels. Twenty male basketball players from U14 (13.7 +/- 0.8 years old; 4.2 +/- 1.4 years of practice) and U16 (15.3 +/- 1.1 years old; 6.4 +/- 2.1 years of practice) participated in this research study. The two-way MANOVA revealed that the sports level (p = 0.009; eta(2)(p) = 0.151), format (p = 0.001; eta(2)(p) = 0.246) and task condition (p = 0.023; eta(2)(p) = 0.104; small effect size) had significant main effects on heart rate responses. It was also found that the format (p = 0.001; eta(2)(p) = 0.182) had significant main effects on technical performance. A smaller format significantly increased the heart rate, volume of play, efficiency index and collective density during attacking plays. The SSCG with attacking content statistically increased the heart rate, efficiency index and performance score. Therefore, this study revealed that different SSCGs with tactical content influenced the physiological responses of youth players.		[Clemente, Filipe Manuel] Inst Politecn Viana do Castelo, Escola Super Desporto & Lazer, Viana Do Castelo, Portugal; [Clemente, Filipe Manuel; Lourenco Martins, Fernando Manuel] Inst Telecomunicacoes, Delegacao Da Covilha, Portugal; [Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Educ Cuenca, Cuenca, Spain; [Delextrat, Anne] Oxford Brookes Univ, Sports & Exercise Sci, Oxford, England; [Lourenco Martins, Fernando Manuel] Inst Politecn Coimbra, Escola Super Educ, Dept Educ, Coimbra, Portugal; [Pastor Vicedo, Juan Carlos] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Fac Educ Toledo, Toledo, Spain; [Gonzalez-Villora, Sixto] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Edificio Fray Luis de Leon,Campus Univ S-N, Cuenca 16071, Spain								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600013	34	Article; Article		
J	Tufano, James J.; Conlon, Jenny A.; Nimphius, Sophia; Brown, Lee E.; Petkovic, Alex; Frick, Justin; Haff, G. Gregory								Effects of Cluster Sets and Rest-Redistribution on Mechanical Responses to Back Squats in Trained Men								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			35	43		10.1515/hukin-2017-0069			SEP 2017	2017	Eight resistance-trained men completed three protocols separated by 48-96 hours. Each protocol included 36 repetitions with the same rest duration, but the frequency and length of rest periods differed. The cluster sets of four (CS4) protocol included 30 s of rest after the 4th, 8th, 16th, 20th, 28th, and 32nd repetition in addition to 120 s of rest after the 12th and 24th repetition. For the other two protocols, the total 420 s rest time of CS4 was redistributed to include nine sets of four repetitions (RR4) with 52.5 s of rest after every four repetitions, or 36 sets of single repetitions (RR1) with 12 s of rest after every repetition. Mean (MF) and peak (PF) force, velocity (MV and PV), and power output (MP and PP) were measured during 36 repetitions and were collapsed into 12 repetitions for analysis. Repeated measures ANOVA 3 (protocol) x 12 (repetition) showed a protocol x repetition interaction for PF, MV, PV, MP, and PP (p-values from <0.001 to 0.012). No interaction or main effect was present for MF. During RR1, MV, PV, MP, and PP were maintained, but decreased throughout every 4-repetition sequence during CS4 and RR4. During CS4 and RR4, PF was less following a rest period compared to subsequent repetitions, whereas PF was maintained during RR1. These data indicate that rest redistribution results in similar average kinetics and kinematics, but if total rest time is redistributed to create shorter but more frequent sets, kinetics and kinematics may remain more constant.		[Tufano, James J.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, 31 Jose Martiho, Prague 16252, Czech Republic; [Tufano, James J.; Conlon, Jenny A.; Nimphius, Sophia; Petkovic, Alex; Frick, Justin; Haff, G. Gregory] Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Exercise & Sports Sci Res, Joondalup, Australia; [Nimphius, Sophia] Hurley Surfing Australia High Performance Ctr, Casuarina, Australia; [Brown, Lee E.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Ctr Sport Performance, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Tufano, James J.] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Phys Educ & Sport, 31 Jose Martiho, Prague 16252, Czech Republic								33							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600004	30	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Garcia, Oscar; Serrano-Gomez, Virginia; Hernandez-Mendo, Antonio; Morales-Sanchez, Veronica								Baseline Mechanical and Neuromuscular Profile of Knee Extensor and Flexor Muscles in Professional Soccer Players at the Start of the Pre-Season								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			23	34		10.1515/hukin-2017-0066			SEP 2017	2017	The aim of the study was to determine the mechanical and neuromuscular profile of knee extensor and flexor muscles in professional soccer players at the start of the pre-season, and to calculate percentages for symmetry, as well as examine differences according to the player's positional role. The vastus medialis (VM), vastus lateralis (VL), rectus femoris (RF) and biceps femoris (BF) of 16 professional soccer players were evaluated by means of tensiomyography (TMG) on the first day of the pre-season. A paired-samples t test (p < .05) was used to compare the dominant and non-dominant lower limb. One-way ANOVA was applied, with the positional role as an independent factor. No differences were observed between the dominant and non-dominant leg. The highest degree of symmetry corresponded to the VM (92.5 +/- 2.7%), and the lowest to the BF (80.7 +/- 10.9%). The positional role was associated with significant differences in some of the variables for the BF, RF and VM, although only the half-relaxation time in the BF and the time to sustain force in the VM differed across all the playing positions considered. TMG was shown to be a useful way of evaluating the neuromuscular characteristics of soccer players at the start of the pre-season, and of establishing baseline values for individual players.		[Garcia-Garcia, Oscar; Serrano-Gomez, Virginia] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra 36005, Spain; [Hernandez-Mendo, Antonio; Morales-Sanchez, Veronica] Univ Malaga, Fac Psychol, Malaga, Spain; [Garcia-Garcia, Oscar] Univ Vigo, Fac Educ & Sport Sci, Pontevedra 36005, Spain								28							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600003	45	Article; Article		
J	Jose Gonzalez-Badillo, Juan; Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro; Ramirez-Lechuga, Jorge								Determinant Factors of the Squat Jump in Sprinting and Jumping Athletes								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			15	22		10.1515/hukin-2017-0067			SEP 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between strength variables and maximum velocity (Vmax) in the squat jump (SJ) in sprinting and jumping athletes. Thirty-two sprinting and jumping athletes of national level (25.4 +/- 4.5 years; 79.4 +/- 6.9 kg and 180.4 +/- 6.0 cm) participated in the study. Vmax in the SJ showed significant relationships with peak force 1 (PF1) (r = 0.82, p <= 0.001), peak force 2 (PF2) (r = 0.68, p <= 0.001), PF2 by controlling for PF1 (r = 0.30, non-significant), the maximum rate of force development at peak force 1 (RFDmax1) (r = 0.62, p <= 0.001), mean RFD 1 (RFDmean1) (r = 0.48, p <= 0.01), mean RFD 2 (RFDmean2) (r = 0.70, p <= 0.001), force at RFDmax1 (r = 0.36, p <= 0.05), force at RFDmax2 (r = 0.83, p <= 0.001) and force at RFDmax2 by controlling for PF1 (r = 0.40, p <= 0.05). However, Vmax in the SJ was associated negatively with the ratio PF2/PF1 (r = - 0.54, p <= 0.01), time at peak force 2 (Tp2) (r = - 0.64, p <= 0.001) and maximum rate of force development at peak force 2 (RFDmax2) (r = 0.71, p <= 0.001). These findings indicate that the peak force achieved at the beginning of the movement (PF1) is the main predictor of performance in jumping, although the RFDmax values and the ratio PF2/PF1 are also variables to be taken into account when analyzing the determinant factors of vertical jumping.		[Jose Gonzalez-Badillo, Juan; Ramirez-Lechuga, Jorge] Univ Pablo Olavide, Dept Sport, Seville, Spain; [Jimenez-Reyes, Pedro] Catholic Univ San Antonio, Dept Phys Act & Sports Sci, Murcia, Spain; [Ramirez-Lechuga, Jorge] Univ Pablo Olavide, Fac Sport Sci, Ctra Utrera,Km 1, Seville 41013, Spain								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600002	24	Article; Article		
J	Roh, Hee-Tae; So, Wi-Young; Cho, Su-Youn; Suh, Sang-Hoon								Effects of Fluid Ingestion on Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor and Cognition During Exercise in the Heat								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			73	86		10.1515/hukin-2017-0074			SEP 2017	2017	We investigated the effects of fluid ingestion during exercise in different environments on the serum brain-derived neurotrophic factor and cognition among athletes. Ten collegiate male athletes (soccer, n = 5; rugby, n = 5) were enrolled, and they completed running tests in the following four conditions (60 min each): 1) thermoneutral temperature at 18 degrees C (group 18); 2) high ambient temperature at 32 degrees C without fluid ingestion (group 32); 3) high ambient temperature at 32 degrees C with water ingestion (group 32+W); and 4) high ambient temperature at 32 degrees C with sports drink ingestion (group 32+S). Serum brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels significantly increased in group 18 immediately after exercise when compared with those at rest and were significantly higher than those in group 32 immediately and 60 min after exercise (p < 0.05). In the Stroop Color and Word Test, significantly increased Word, Color, and Color-Word scores were observed in group 18 immediately after exercise compared to those at rest (p < 0.05). However, the Color-Word score appeared to be significantly lower in group 32 immediately after exercise compared to the other groups (p < 0.05) and at 60 min post-exercise compared to group 18 (p < 0.05). We found that the exercise performed in a thermoneutral environment improved cognitive function, but the exercise performed in a hot environment did not. The differences according to the exercise environment would be largely affected by brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and fluid ingestion regardless of the type of drink (water or sports beverage) was assumed to have contributed to the improvement in cognitive function caused by exercising in a hot environment.		[Roh, Hee-Tae] Dong A Univ, Coll Arts & Phys Educ, Dept Phys Educ, Busan, South Korea; [So, Wi-Young] Korea Natl Univ Transportat, Coll Humanities & Arts, Sports & Hlth Care Major, Chungju Si, South Korea; [Cho, Su-Youn; Suh, Sang-Hoon] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Cho, Su-Youn; Suh, Sang-Hoon] Yonsei Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Exercise Physiol Lab, Seoul, South Korea								11							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600007	52	Article; Article		
J	Callegari, Gustavo A.; Novaes, Jefferson S.; Neto, Gabriel R.; Dias, Ingrid; Garrido, Nuno D.; Dani, Caroline								Creatine Kinase and Lactate Dehydrogenase Responses After Different Resistance and Aerobic Exercise Protocols								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			65	72		10.1515/hukin-2017-0071			SEP 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to investigate the responses of creatine kinase (CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) after performing different resistance and aerobic exercise protocols. Twelve recreationally trained men (age, 23.2 +/- 5.6 years; body mass, 84.3 +/- 9.3 kg; body height, 178.9 +/- 4.5 cm; and BMI, 26.3 +/- 2.3 kg.m2) volunteered to participate in this study. All subjects were randomly assigned to four experimental protocols (crossover): (a) aerobic training at 60% of VO2max, (b) aerobic training at 80% of VO2max, (c) a resistance exercise (RE) session with a bi-set protocol, and (d) an RE session with a multiple sets protocol. Blood samples were collected before, immediately after and 24 hours following the experimental protocols. After 24 hours, there was a significant increase in CK for the 80% of VO2max protocol vs. the bi-set RE session (p = 0.016). Immediately after the protocols, we observed a significant increase in LDH among certain groups compared to others, as follows: multiple sets RE session vs. 60% of VO2max, bi-set RE session vs. 60% of VO2max, multiple sets RE session vs. 80% of VO2max, and bi-set RE session vs. 80% of VO2max (p = 0.008, p = 0.013; p = 0.002, p = 0.004, respectively). In conclusion, aerobic exercise performed at 80% of VO2max appears to elevate plasma CK levels more than bi-set RE sessions. However, the bi-set and multiple sets RE sessions appeared to trigger greater levels of blood LDH compared to aerobic protocols performed at 60% and 80% of VO2max.		[Callegari, Gustavo A.; Dani, Caroline] Methodist Univ Ctr, Program Acad Master Biosci & Rehabil, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Novaes, Jefferson S.; Neto, Gabriel R.; Dias, Ingrid] Fed Univ Rio De Janeiro UFRJ, Dept Phys Educ, Grad Program, Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Neto, Gabriel R.] Associate Grad Program Phys Educ UPE UFPB, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Dias, Ingrid] Fed Univ Rio De Janeiro UFRJ, Med Clin Postgrad Program, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Garrido, Nuno D.] Res Ctr Sports Sci Hlth Sci & Human Dev, Vila Real, Portugal; [Neto, Gabriel R.] Univ Fed Paraiba, Res Ctr Human Movement Sci, Associate Grad Program Phys Educ UPE UFPB, Dept Phys Educ,Kinanthropometry Lab, Room 06&08, BR-58051900 Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil								105							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600006	35	Article; Article		
J	Snarr, Ronald L.; Hallmark, Ashleigh V.; Casey, Jason C.; Esco, Michael R.								Electromyographical Comparison of a Traditional, Suspension Device, and Towel Pull-Up								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				58	1			5	13		10.1515/hukin-2017-0068			SEP 2017	2017	Strengthening muscles of the back may have various implications for improving functions of daily living, aiding in the transfer of power in throwing, and assist in injury prevention of the shoulder complex. While several versions of the pull-up exist, there is currently no literature comparing their differences. The purpose of this investigation was to compare the electromyographical activity of the latissimus dorsi, posterior deltoid, middle trapezius, and biceps brachii while performing three variations of the pull-up. Resistance-trained men and women (n = 15, age = 24.87 +/- 6.52 years) participated in this study by performing traditional pull-ups, suspension device pull-ups, and towel pull-ups in a randomized fashion. Each pull-up was performed for three repetitions with a 1.5 biacromial grip-width for each participant. Normalized (%MVC) electromyographical values were recorded for each muscle group during each pull-up variation. No significant differences existed within the latissimus dorsi, biceps brachii or posterior deltoid between any of the exercises. For the middle trapezius, towel pull-ups provided significantly lower muscle activity than the traditional pull-up, while no differences between suspension pull-ups and the other variations occurred. In conclusion, only one muscular difference existed between the exercise variations and all versions examined provided electromyographical values, determined by current literature, to invoke a sufficient stimulus to promote increases in muscle strength and hypertrophy. Although further research is needed, practitioners can be confident when programming any of the movement variations examined when attempting to elicit adaptations of muscular strength and hypertrophy.		[Snarr, Ronald L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Coll Hlth & Kinesiol, POB 8076, Statesboro, GA 30460 USA; [Hallmark, Ashleigh V.; Esco, Michael R.] Univ Alabama, Dept Kinesiol, Tuscaloosa, AL USA; [Casey, Jason C.] LaGrange Coll, Dept Exercise Sci, La Grange, GA USA; [Snarr, Ronald L.] Georgia Southern Univ, Coll Hlth & Kinesiol, POB 8076, Statesboro, GA 30460 USA								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000407005600001	22	Article; Article		
J	Koh, Koon T.; Ho, Xin Y. M.; Koh, Yizhe								The developmental experiences of basketball mentor coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	4			520	531		10.1177/1747954117718048			AUG 2017	2017	Numerous studies have examined the developmental activities of expert coaches. However, empirical studies on the development of mentor coaches in sport are scarce, despite literature reporting benefits of coach mentoring. The purpose of the present study was to examine the developmental experiences of mentor coaches who were involved in a structured mentoring program embedded in a level-one basketball coach education program. Four mentor coaches (one female) who met the selection criteria participated in structured retrospective interviews. Quantitative data such as mentor coaches' demographic, athletics and coaching experiences were analyzed to calculate the means, standard deviation, and frequency of mentor coaches' profile. Results were partially consistent with literature on expert coaches where mentor coaches (1) were competitive athletes, (2) held leadership positions as athletes, and (3) had accumulated at least 10 years of coaching experience and were successful coaches at the developmental level and beyond. Qualitative data were content analyzed using the narrative method to examine how mentor coaches learned their craft. Results show that (1) past coaches greatly influenced the development of mentor coaches' mentoring knowledge, especially in the early stage of their coaching career, (2) exposure to different levels of mentoring appears to be useful in preparing them for eventual mentoring roles, and (3) self-directed learning helped mentor coaches to enhance their mentoring knowledge. The results are discussed in relation to literature on coach learning and development. Practical applications of the findings are also proposed.		[Koh, Koon T.; Ho, Xin Y. M.; Koh, Yizhe] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Singapore, Singapore; [Koh, Koon T.] Nanyang Technol Univ, 1 Nanyang Walk, Singapore 637616, Singapore								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000407468100017	37	Article; Article		
J	Szwarc, Andrzej; Kromke, Krzysztof; Radziminski, Lukasz; Jastrzebski, Zbigniew								Efficiency of 1-on-1 play situations for high-level soccer players during the World and European championships in relation to position on the pitch and match time								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	4			495	503		10.1177/1747954117717890			AUG 2017	2017	The aim of the study was to assess the efficiencies of players in 1-on-1 situations in terms of their position on the pitch and the match time during the final matches of the World Cup and European Championships from 1990 to 2014. The research was conducted on a sample of 1012 football players whose teams competed in the semi-finals, finals and the third place matches during the Football World Cup and European Championships from 1990 to 2014. The study included the performances of 506 players in 1-on-1 situations during 46 matches that were terminated at the regulation 90min. The study revealed that during an average match, the players performed 231 times in 1-on-1 situations with 51% accuracy. The level of accuracy in 1-on-1 situations was significantly higher (p0.05) in winning teams than in losing teams particularly at the beginning of the game and in the middle zone of the pitch. Moreover, the results of our study showed that the highest effectiveness of the duels was noted in the defence zone and was decreasing along with moving the actions closer to the opponent's goal. The players competed with similar frequencies on both defence (114 duels on average with 51% accuracy) and attack (113 duels on average with 52% accuracy). The players of the elite football teams exhibited high performance efficiencies in the 1-on-1 duels, especially on their own half of the field and during the early stages of both halves of the match. The accuracy of duels of their performances decreased when the action moved closer to the opponent's goal and with the time in the game.		[Szwarc, Andrzej; Radziminski, Lukasz; Jastrzebski, Zbigniew] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, K Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland; [Kromke, Krzysztof] St Augustinusschule, Ettlingen, Germany; [Szwarc, Andrzej] Gdansk Univ Phys Educ & Sport, K Gorskiego 1, PL-80336 Gdansk, Poland								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000407468100014	32	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Jinhee; Youm, Changhong; Son, Minji; Lee, Myeounggon; Kim, Youkyung								Golf club characteristics and vertical force distribution associated with pitch and lob shots of different carry distances								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	4			540	548		10.1177/1747954117721268			AUG 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate the club characteristics and vertical force distribution of pitch and lob shots of 20 and 30m in female golfers from the Korean Ladies Professional Golf Association (age: 21.3 +/- 1.7 years; height: 161.5 +/- 4.4cm; body weight: 60.3 +/- 5.6kg; career: 7.5 +/- 1.7 years). Ten infrared cameras and two force plates were used to record the swing of each golfer. The test golf swings included a pitch and lob shot to target distances of 20 and 30m. The carry distance for the 20 and 30m shots was affected by club shaft angle, loft angle, projected ball angle, and club head speed. Pitch and lob shots were distinguished by ball position, club shaft angle, loft angle, vertical force distribution, projected ball angle, and club head speed. For the lob shot, the ball was positioned about 6cm toward the left foot from the center of the heel marker, compared to the ball position in the pitch shot for the 20 and 30m shots. In addition, the loft angle was 10 degrees wider and the vertical force of the right foot was 4% greater than for the pitch shot. The projection angle of the ball for the 30m lob shot was 57 degrees, while that for the pitch shot was about 47 degrees. Taken together, the within-player between-task design and the realistic well-practiced goal-directed experimental tasks provided an opportunity to determine how individual players modify their control strategies to regulate shot distance and ball trajectory when using the same club. These findings have practical implications for coaches and for golfers aiming to improve their short game ability.		[Kim, Jinhee; Youm, Changhong; Son, Minji; Lee, Myeounggon; Kim, Youkyung] Dong A Univ, Coll Hlth Sci, Biomech Lab, Busan, South Korea; [Youm, Changhong] Dong A Univ, Dept Hlth Care & Sci, Coll Hlth Sci, 37 Nakdong Daero 550 Beon Gil, Busan, South Korea; [Youm, Changhong] Dong A Univ, Dept Hlth Care & Sci, Coll Hlth Sci, 37 Nakdong Daero 550 Beon Gil, Busan, South Korea								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000407468100019	27	Article; Article		
J	Myers, Victoria R.; McKillop, Adam L.; Fraser, Sarah J.; Abel, Josh M.; Wells, Greg D.								Physiological and psychological adaptations during taper in competitive swimmers								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	4			481	494		10.1177/1747954117717878			AUG 2017	2017	An effective taper in training load is essential for increased performance outcomes at competition, however optimal taper individualization remains elusive. Monitoring psychological and physical adaptations that occur during the taper may help guide the optimization of training during a taper resulting in improvements in performance. We monitored physical and psychological variables as well as competition performance of 10 elite swimmers before and during a 21-day taper in preparation for the Canadian National Championships or World Championships. Mood and recovery were assessed using the Brunel Mood Scale and the Recovery-Stress Questionnaire. Resting muscle tension, skin conductance, and respiration rate were measured using biofeedback technology. Speed and heart rate were assessed with a 2x200m submaximal swim test. Resting HR was measured using the Rusko test. We hypothesized that psychological and physiological measurements would change during the taper phase and that these changes would be associated with improved competition performance. Results showed that the Brunel Mood Scale, Recovery-Stress Questionnaire, 2x200m submaximal test, and the Rusko test changed significantly throughout the taper period. Variables from the Brunel Mood Scale and the Recovery-Stress Questionnaire showed a significant relationship with improved performance, indicating that these questionnaires show good utility for assessing progress during a taper in the future.		[Myers, Victoria R.; Wells, Greg D.] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 100 Devonshire Pl, Toronto, ON M5S 2W6, Canada; [McKillop, Adam L.] Univ Toronto, Inst Med Sci, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Fraser, Sarah J.] McMaster Univ, Fac Life Sci, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Abel, Josh M.] Canadian Sport Inst Ontario, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Wells, Greg D.] Hosp Sick Children, Dept Physiol & Expt Med, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Wells, Greg D.] Univ Toronto, Fac Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 100 Devonshire Pl, Toronto, ON M5S 2W6, Canada								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000407468100013	45	Article; Article		
J	Jenkins, Simon								The deconstruction and reconstruction of sports coaching: An interview with Professor Robyn Jones								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	4			413	420		10.1177/1747954117718019			AUG 2017	2017	Robyn Jones is arguably the world's leading researcher and scholar in the microsociology of sports coaching. Viewing coaching as a complex socio-pedagogical process' he has drawn especially from Erving Goffman's work on stigma, interaction and impression management, in addition to educational perspectives such as Nel Noddings' feminist ethic of care. This article and the accompanying commentaries from Robyn's current and past doctoral students, as well as some colleagues from academia, is focused on the ontology, epistemology and methodology of research in sports coaching.		[Jenkins, Simon] Univ Winchester, Dept Sport & Exercise, Sparkford Rd, Winchester SO22 4NR, Hants, England; [Jenkins, Simon] Univ Winchester, Dept Sport & Exercise, Sparkford Rd, Winchester SO22 4NR, Hants, England								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000407468100001	32	Article; Article		
J	Hodgson, Laura; Butt, Joanne; Maynard, Ian								Exploring the psychological attributes underpinning elite sports coaching								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	4			439	451		10.1177/1747954117718017			AUG 2017	2017	The influential role of the coach in athlete performance and development has long been acknowledged, and coaches are now considered performers', just like their athletes. The purpose of the present study was to explore the psychological attributes elite coaches perceived to underpin their ability to coach most effectively and factors perceived to influence attribute development. Qualitative research methods were implemented where 12 elite coaches (eight male, four female) participated in semi-structured interviews. Inductive thematic analysis generated nine higher order themes related to psychological attributes: (a) attitude, (b) confidence, (c) resilience, (d) focus, (e) drive for personal development, (f) being athlete-centred, (g) emotional awareness, (h) emotional understanding, and (i) emotional management. In addition, three higher order themes were generated related to factors perceived to influence attribute development: (a) education, (b) experience, and (c) conscious self-improvement. Findings indicated that several attributes perceived to be essential to coaching effectiveness related to the emotional nature of coaching, where coaches' abilities to identify, understand, and manage emotions in both themselves and others had many positive effects.		[Hodgson, Laura; Butt, Joanne; Maynard, Ian] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Sheffield S10 2BP, S Yorkshire, England; [Hodgson, Laura] Sheffield Hallam Univ, Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Sheffield S10 2BP, S Yorkshire, England								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000407468100009	48	Article; Article		
J	Teatro, Courtney; Thompson, Melissa; Kulinna, Pam H.; Mars, Hans van der; Kwan, JaYoun								Coaching behaviors and stakeholders' views of coaches' efficacy								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	4			452	460		10.1177/1747954117718094			AUG 2017	2017	There appears to be a relationship between coaching efficacy and athlete satisfaction, confidence, and performance, as well as coach behavior. However, little research exists, specifically within a high school setting, examining the relationship between coaches' perceptions of efficacy and those of stakeholders (parents and athletes). The purpose of this research was to examine the relationship between coaches' efficacy and stakeholders' views of coach efficacy. A sample of 516 coaches, 115 athletes, and 103 parents were recruited. Coaches have significantly higher levels of coaching efficacy on all four efficacy domains than the ratings from athletes and parents, while no differences between athlete and parent scores exist. Although coaches reported relatively high levels of coaching efficacy, they reported the lowest efficacy for motivation. Athletes concurred, providing the lowest scores for coaches in motivation. Implications for coaching education are discussed, including a greater need for training on implementing athlete motivation techniques.		[Teatro, Courtney; Kulinna, Pam H.; Mars, Hans van der] Arizona State Univ, 1050 S Forest Mall, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA; [Thompson, Melissa] Univ Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, MS USA; [Kwan, JaYoun] West Virginia Univ, Morgantown, WV USA; [Teatro, Courtney] Arizona State Univ, 1050 S Forest Mall, Tempe, AZ 85287 USA								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000407468100010	37	Article; Article		
J	Johansson, Annika; Fahlen, Josef								Simply the best, better than all the rest? Validity issues in selections in elite sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	4			470	480		10.1177/1747954117718020			AUG 2017	2017	Selecting the right' athletes to competitions and games is crucial in eventually deciding winners and champions. Thus, the purpose of this study was to discuss selections to top-level sport teams using validity concepts as theoretical points of departure. Drawing on data from 14 semi-structured interviews with elite coaches (selectors) in football (n=8) and alpine skiing (n=6), this article adds to the knowledge on rationales behind selection decisions in elite sport, how selections are performed and with what consequences. Results point to several key validity concerns in selection processes such as the (non) use of explicit selection criteria, lack of structure in selection processes and coaches' giving way to gut feelings and their eyes for the sport instead of utilizing various selection aids at hand.		[Johansson, Annika; Fahlen, Josef] Umea Univ, Dept Educ, Mediagrand 14, SE-90187 Umea, Sweden; [Johansson, Annika] Umea Univ, Dept Educ, Mediagrand 14, SE-90187 Umea, Sweden; [Johansson, Annika] Umea Univ, Dept Educ, Annika Johansson, Mediagrand 14, S-SE90187 Umea, Sweden								46							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000407468100012	60	Article; Article		
J	Belcher, Daniel								The Sumo Deadlift								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			97	104		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000298			AUG 2017	2017	THE SUMO DEADLIFT IS A COMMON VARIATION OF THE DEADLIFT USED IN POWERLIFTING COMPETITIONS. THE EXERCISE USES EXTENSION OF THE BACK, HIPS, AND KNEES IN UNISON TO LIFT A LOADED BARBELL FROM THE GROUND TO A FULLY ERECT STANDING POSITION. THIS COLUMN OFFERS A DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PROPER SUMO DEADLIFTING TECHNIQUE. A VIDEO ABSTRACT DESCRIBING THIS ARTICLE CAN BE FOUND IN SUPPLEMENTAL DIGITAL CONTENT 1, HTTP://LINKS.LWW.COM/SCJ/A204.		[Belcher, Daniel] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Lab, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA; [Belcher, Daniel] Florida Atlantic Univ, Dept Exercise Sci & Hlth Promot, Muscle Physiol Lab, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100013	14	Article; Article		
J	Kompf, Justin; LaVaute, Brittany								Commitment-Based Strategies to Increase Exercise Participation								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			82	88		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000318			AUG 2017	2017	PARTICIPATION IN EXERCISE IS STAGGERINGLY LOW AND FEW MEET THE RECOMMENDED PRESCRIPTIONS FOR AEROBIC AND RESISTANCE TRAINING. ONE REASON FOR MINIMAL PARTICIPATION MAY BE DUE TO NEGATIVE AFFECTIVE EXPERIENCES FELT DURING EXERCISE. THE USE OF BEHAVIORAL COMMITMENT STRATEGIES CAN SUPPORT INDIVIDUALS' EFFORTS WITH AN EXERCISE PROGRAM, DESPITE UNPLEASANT AFFECTIVE STATES.		[Kompf, Justin] Univ Massachusetts, Exercise & Hlth Sci, Boston, MA 02125 USA; [LaVaute, Brittany] Univ Massachusetts, Boston, MA 02125 USA; [Kompf, Justin] Univ Massachusetts, Exercise & Hlth Sci, Boston, MA 02125 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100011	35	Article; Article		
J	Quiles, Norberto; Ortiz, Alexis								Resistance Training as an Intervention for People Living With HIV/AIDS								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			64	70		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000312			AUG 2017	2017	PEOPLE LIVING WITH HIV/AIDS ARE LIVING LONGER DUE TO THE ADVANCEMENT OF ANTIRETROVIRAL MEDICATIONS BUT ARE NOW EXPERIENCING OTHER COMORBIDITIES AS SIDE EFFECTS OF THESE MEDICATIONS AND DISEASE PROGRESSION. MUSCLE WASTING IS ONE OF THE TOP COMORBIDITIES FACED BY THESE INDIVIDUALS WHICH MAY DECREASE THEIR ABILITY TO ENGAGE IN ACTIVITIES OF DAILY LIVING AND PARTICIPATION IN SOCIETY. RESISTANCE EXERCISE HAS SHOWN TO BE A SAFE AND EFFECTIVE MODALITY IN COUNTERACTING THE EFFECTS OF MUSCLE WASTING AND ENHANCING THE HEALTH OF THESE INDIVIDUALS. EXERCISE PROFESSIONALS ARE IN A DESIRABLE POSITION TO AID INCREASING THE QUALITY OF LIFE OF THIS POPULATION.		[Quiles, Norberto] CUNY, Queens Coll, Dept Family Nutr & Exercise Sci, New York, NY 10021 USA; [Ortiz, Alexis] Texas Womans Univ, Sch Phys Therapy, Houston, TX USA; [Quiles, Norberto] CUNY, Queens Coll, Dept Family Nutr & Exercise Sci, New York, NY 10021 USA								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100009	43	Article; Article		
J	Williams, Biju; Clarke, Richard; Aspe, Rodrigo; Cole, Matthew; Hughes, Jonathan								Managing Performance Throughout Periods of Travel								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			22	29		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000317			AUG 2017	2017	UNDERSTANDING THE IMPACT OF TRAVEL ON PHYSICAL PERFORMANCE IS AN INCREASING AREA OF INTEREST FOR THE STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING PRACTITIONER. PREVIOUS RESEARCH SURROUNDING THE EFFECT OF TRAVEL ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF AN ATHLETE HAS FOCUSED ON SLEEP. OF CONCERN TO COACHES AND ATHLETES ARE STRATEGIES TO HELP ATTENUATE ANY DETRIMENTAL IMPACT OF TRAVEL ON SUBSEQUENT PERFORMANCE. THE AIM OF THIS ARTICLE IS TO PROVIDE INFORMATIVE PRACTICAL GUIDELINES FOR BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER TRAVEL THAT CAN BE IMPLEMENTED BY COACHES AND ATHLETES. THE KEY COPING STRATEGIES ADDRESSED INCLUDE TIMED LIGHT EXPOSURE; MANAGING SLEEP DEPRIVATION AND NUTRITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS.		[Williams, Biju; Clarke, Richard; Aspe, Rodrigo; Hughes, Jonathan] Univ Gloucestershire, Exercise & Sport Res Ctr, Gloucester, England; [Cole, Matthew] Birmingham City Univ, Dept Sport & Exercise, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Clarke, Richard] Univ Gloucestershire, Exercise & Sport Res Ctr, Gloucester, England								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100004	53	Article; Article		
J	Carrasco, Laanna								The Effect of Sprint Training for Reducing Body Fat in Women								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			89	96		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000300			AUG 2017	2017	OBESITY IS AN INCREASING PROBLEM FOR THE GENERAL POPULATION THAT IS ASSOCIATED WITH LONG-TERM HEALTH PROBLEMS AND A LOWER QUALITY OF LIFE. INSTEAD OF RELYING ON AEROBIC EXERCISE FOR FAT LOSS, SPRINT INTERVAL TRAINING MAY BE A MORE EFFECTIVE METHOD OF IMPROVING BODY COMPOSITION. THERE IS SOME EVIDENCE THAT WOMEN MAY NOT EXPERIENCE THE SAME ADAPTATIONS TO SPRINTING AS MEN. THIS ARTICLE WILL REVIEW THE INTERVAL TRAINING STUDIES THAT HAVE USED WOMEN AS SUBJECTS AND SUMMARIZE HOW THIS MODE OF EXERCISE IMPACTS BODY FAT. PRACTICAL RECOMMENDATIONS ARE PROVIDED FOR TRAINERS TO DEVELOP PROGRAMS GEARED AT REDUCING BODY FAT IN WOMEN.		[Carrasco, Laanna] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Educ & Human Performance, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Carrasco, Laanna] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Educ & Human Performance, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100012	35	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Katie M.; Ziel, Erica								Special Populations: Training the Pregnant Client								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	4			49	54		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000316			AUG 2017	2017	THE BENEFITS OF PRENATAL EXERCISE ARE EXTENSIVE FOR THE MOTHER AND CHILD. AEROBIC AND RESISTANCE TRAINING ARE SAFE WITH PROPER MODIFICATIONS SPECIFIC TO THE CLIENT'S NEEDS AND ADVANCING GESTATION. TRAINING A PRENATAL CLIENT REQUIRES UNDERSTANDING OF THE PHYSIOLOGICAL CHANGES OF PREGNANCY TO OPTIMIZE THE EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION AND RESULTING OUTCOMES.		[Smith, Katie M.] Simpson Coll, Dept Sport Sci & Hlth Educ, Indianola, IA 50125 USA; [Ziel, Erica] Knocked Fitness & Core Athlet Inc, Ankeny, IA USA; [Smith, Katie M.] Simpson Coll, Dept Sport Sci & Hlth Educ, Indianola, IA 50125 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000406931100007	42	Article; Article		
J	Chastain, Aaron J.; Gohmann, Stephan F.; Stephenson, E. Frank								Beer Availability and College Football Attendance: Evidence From Mid-Major Conferences								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	6			592	600		10.1177/1527002515589351			AUG 2017	2017	We examine the relationship between beer being sold at college football stadiums and both attendance and football revenue for 29 mid-major universities over the 2005-2012 period. Using both ordinary least squares and instrumental variable estimation, no evidence that beer availability increases attendance or football revenue is found.		[Chastain, Aaron J.; Stephenson, E. Frank] Berry Coll, Dept Econ, Box 5024, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA; [Gohmann, Stephan F.] Univ Louisville, Louisville, KY 40292 USA; [Stephenson, E. Frank] Berry Coll, Dept Econ, Box 5024, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA								13							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000405517800003	11	Article; Article		
J	Driskill, Robert; Vrooman, John								Talent Versus Payroll as Strategic Variables in Game Theoretic Models of Sports Leagues: Response to Madden								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	6			638	646		10.1177/1527002515593115			AUG 2017	2017	This is a response to Madden's comment on our original article: It's Not Over til the Fat Lady Sings: Game-Theoretic Analyses of Sports Leagues.		[Driskill, Robert; Vrooman, John] Vanderbilt Univ, VU Stn B 351819, Nashville, TN 37235 USA; [Vrooman, John] Vanderbilt Univ, VU Stn B 351819, Nashville, TN 37235 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000405517800006	7	Article; Article		
J	Toma, Mattie								Missed Shots at the Free-Throw Line: Analyzing the Determinants of Choking Under Pressure								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	6			539	559		10.1177/1527002515593779			AUG 2017	2017	Choking under pressure represents a phenomenon in which individuals faced with a high-pressure situation do not perform as well as would be expected were they performing under normal conditions. In this article, I identify determinants that predict a basketball player's susceptibility to choking under pressure. Identification of these determinants adds to our understanding of players' psychology at pivotal points in the game. My analysis draws on play-by-play data from ESPN.com that feature over 2 million free-throw attempts in women's and men's college and professional basketball games from the 2002-2013 seasons. Using regression analysis, I explore the impact of both gender and level of professionalism on performance in high-pressure situations. I find that in the final 30 seconds of a tight game, Women's National Basketball Association and National Basketball Association players are 5.81 and 3.11 percentage points, respectively, less likely to make a free throw, while female and male college players are 2.25 and 2.09 percentage points, respectively, less likely to make a free throw, though statistical significance cannot be established among National Collegiate Athletic Association women. The discrepancy in choking between college and professional players is pronounced when comparing male college players who do and do not make it to the professional level; the free-throw performance of those destined to go pro falls 6 percentage points more in high-pressure situations. Finally, I find that women and men do not differ significantly in their propensity to choke.		[Toma, Mattie] Univ Chicago, Becker Friedman Inst Res Econ, 1126 E 59th St, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Toma, Mattie] Univ Chicago, Becker Friedman Inst Res Econ, 1126 E 59th St, Chicago, IL 60637 USA								60							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000405517800001	24	Article; Article		
J	Groothuis, Peter A.; Rotthoff, Kurt W.; Strazicich, Mark C.								Structural Breaks in the Game: The Case of Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	6			622	637		10.1177/1527002515593113			AUG 2017	2017	To search for eras in a sports league, we utilize time-series tests with structural breaks in Major League Baseball performance. Using data from 1871-2010, the mean and standard deviation of four different performance measures are examined. Throughout, rather than assume that a break point is known a priori, we identify breaks endogenously from the data. Perhaps most notable among our findings, we identify a deterministic trend in mean slugging percentage with breaks in 1921 and 1992. Interestingly, these years closely coincide with the early years of the free-swinging (Babe Ruth) era and the modern steroid era, respectively.		[Groothuis, Peter A.] Appalachian State Univ, Walker Coll Business, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Rotthoff, Kurt W.] Seton Hall Univ, Stillman Sch Business, 400 South Orange Ave,JH 674, S Orange, NJ 07079 USA; [Strazicich, Mark C.] Appalachian State Univ, Dept Econ, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Rotthoff, Kurt W.] Seton Hall Univ, Stillman Sch Business, 400 South Orange Ave,JH 674, S Orange, NJ 07079 USA								9							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000405517800005	23	Article; Article		
J	Latorre Roman, Pedro Angel; Mora Lopez, David; Berrios Aguayo, Beatriz; Robles Fuentes, Alejandro; Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe; Martinez Redondo, Melchor								Handgrip strength is associated with anthropometrics variables and sex in preschool children: A cross sectional study providing reference values								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				26				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.04.002			JUL 2017	2017	Objective: The purpose of this study was to examine the influence of age, sex and anthropometric variables in handgrip strength and to determine norm-referenced values for preschool children. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Schools. Participants: A total of 1215 children, aged 3-6 years (590 girls and 625 boys). Intervention: Not applicable. Main outcome measures: Handgrip strength (HS), measured by the CAMRY hydraulic hand dynamometer (EH101; Camry, Guangdong Province, China). Results: Boys exhibited a greater performance than girls in the 4 and 5 years age groups, but no significant differences were found at 3 and 6 years. In relation to growth, HS performance was greater with increased age. The Pearson correlation analysis showed significant correlations between HS and body mass (r = 0.354, p < 0.001), body height (r = 0.352, p < 0.001), body mass index (r = 0.164, p < 0.001) and waist circumference (r = 0.118, p < 0.001). Conclusion: This study provides references values for muscular strength assessment by an HS test carried out on a large sample of preschoolers in relation to age and sex. Additionally, some differences in HS performance were found according to sex. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Latorre Roman, Pedro Angel; Mora Lopez, David; Berrios Aguayo, Beatriz; Robles Fuentes, Alejandro; Garcia-Pinillos, Felipe] Univ Jaen, Dept Corporal Express, Paraje Lagunillas S-N, Jaen 23071, Spain; [Martinez Redondo, Melchor] Govt Andalusia, CEIP Doctor Fleming, Avda San Sebastian S-N, Jodar 23500, Jaen, Spain; [Latorre Roman, Pedro Angel] Univ Jaen, Dept Corporal Express, Paraje Lagunillas S-N, Jaen 23071, Spain								25							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000406725000001	36	Article; Article		
J	Hambly, Karen; Poomsalood, Somruthai; Mundy, Emma								Return to running following knee osteochondral repair using an anti-gravity treadmill: A case report								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				26				35	40		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.05.004			JUL 2017	2017	Background: The purpose of this study was to assess the impact of an anti-gravity treadmill return to running programme on self-efficacy and subjective knee function following knee osteochondral surgery. Case description: A 39-year-old otherwise healthy female endurance runner with a left knee femoral cartilage grade 3-4 defect 3 cm(2). The patient underwent single step arthroscopic microfracture with Bone Marrow Aspirate Concentrate. An AlterG (R) anti-gravity treadmill was used to manipulate loading during a graduated phased return to running over 8 weeks. Self-efficacy was evaluated using the Self Efficacy for Rehabilitation outcomes scale (SER) and the Knee Self-Efficacy Scale (K-SES). Subjective knee function was evaluated using the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) and International Knee Documentation Committee Subjective Knee Form (IKDC). Outcomes: The programme resulted in improvements in SER (57%), K-SES present (89%) and K-SES future (65%) self-efficacy domains. The IKDC score demonstrated a clinically important improvement with an increase from 62.1 in week 1-86.2 in week 8 (39%). Only the KOOS Sport/Rec subscale showed a clinically important improvement from week 1 to week 8. Discussion: The programme resulted in improved knee and rehabilitation self-efficacy and subjective knee function following osteochondral repair of the knee. This case report illustrates the importance of considering self-efficacy in rehabilitation after knee osteochondral surgery and highlights the potential role for anti-gravity treadmills in enhancing self-efficacy and subjective knee function in preparation for a return to sport. Crown Copyright (C) 2017 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Hambly, Karen; Poomsalood, Somruthai; Mundy, Emma] Univ Kent, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Sports Therapy Phys Act & Hlth Res Grp, Chatham, Kent, England; [Hambly, Karen] Univ Kent, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Medway Bldg, Chatham ME4 4AG, Kent, England								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000406725000006	46	Article; Article		
J	van Rensburg, L. Janse; Dare, M.; Louw, Q.; Crous, L.; Cockroft, J.; Williams, L.; Olivier, B.								Pelvic and hip kinematics during single-leg drop-landing are altered in sports participants with long-standing groin pain: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				26				20	26		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.05.003			JUL 2017	2017	Objectives: The aim of this study was to determine the differences in three-dimensional pelvic and hip kinematics during a single-leg drop-landing task in active sports participants with long-standing groin pain compared to healthy matched controls. Design: This was a descriptive study incorporating a cross-sectional design. Setting: The study was conducted at the Unit for Human Movement Analysis, Stellenbosch University, South Africa. Participants: The study sample was comprised of 20 male club level soccer, rugby, running and cycling participants between the ages of 18 and 55 years. Ten cases with long-standing groin pain and ten asymptomatic matched controls participated. Main outcome measures: Three-dimensional pelvic and hip kinematics were captured with an optical motion capture system during a single-leg drop-landing task. Results: Participants with groin pain landed with more downward lateral pelvic tilt (0.77, p = 0.01, r = 035), hip abduction (2.05, p < 0.001. r = 0.49), and hip external rotation (0.86, p = 0.03, r = 0.29) at initial contact and more pelvic internal rotation (1.06, p = 0.02, r = 0.30) at lowest vertical position than the healthy controls. Conclusions: Sports participants with long-standing groin pain have altered pelvic and hip kinematics during single-leg drop-landing compared to healthy controls. The kinematic differences may contribute towards the persistent nature of groin pain, although these strategies may also be present as a result of the presence or the expectation of pain. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[van Rensburg, L. Janse; Dare, M.; Louw, Q.; Crous, L.; Cockroft, J.; Williams, L.] Stellenbosch Univ, Physiotherapy Div, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, POB 241, ZA-8000 Cape Town, South Africa; [Olivier, B.] Univ Witwatersrand, Physiotherapy Dept, Fac Hlth Sci, 7 York Rd, ZA-2193 Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa; [Olivier, B.] Univ Witwatersrand, Physiotherapy Dept, Fac Hlth Sci, 7 York Rd, ZA-2193 Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000406725000004	29	Article; Article		
J	Petersen, Carl J.								Comparison of performance at the 2007 and 2015 Cricket World Cups								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			404	410		10.1177/1747954117711338			JUN 2017	2017	To assess tactical changes, we compared team performance indicators between the 2015 and 2007 Cricket World Cup Tournaments. Specifically, we determined magnitudes of differences between winning and losing teams and compared round robin and the knockout or Super 8 phases. Magnitude of difference between teams was established with a standardised (Cohen's) effect size with 90% confidence limits. Taking wickets and having a high batting run rate consistently had large to very large effect sizes across both rounds of both tournaments. A higher percentage of runs in singles had a small to moderate negative correlation with winning across both tournaments (ranging from effect size = -0.28 +/- 0.07 to -1.18 +/- 0.79 90% CL). The main contribution of this paper is that across eight years and across different geographical locations, key performance indicators had similar magnitudes in 50-over World Cup Cricket. Coaches can be confident in the relevant importance of different performance indicators.		[Petersen, Carl J.] Univ Canterbury, Sch Hlth Sci, Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 8140, New Zealand; [Petersen, Carl J.] Univ Canterbury, Sch Hlth Sci, Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 8140, New Zealand								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000013	17	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Ronald A.; Lyons, Keith								A strategic analysis of goals scored in open play in four FIFA World Cup football championships between 2002 and 2014								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			398	403		10.1177/1747954117710516			JUN 2017	2017	This study analyzed game events leading up to the goals in four FIFA World Cups. Three categories of goals are presented: (a) from passing the ball behind the opposing defense or to a player level with the last defender who could either shoot or take the ball forwards or pass to a team mate to score, (b) from in front of the opposing defense or from dribbling past the last line of defense, referred to as Other Methods', and (c) from Crosses. The field of play was divided into seven zones to determine the origin of passes for goals in category (a) and (c) and three equal areas lengthwise to determine where possession was regained. The study concludes that the most dominant method of scoring goals in Open Play was from category (a), followed by category (b) and (c). Most goals in category (a) were from passes in the area referred to as Zone 14+ and the majority of goals in all categories came from regained possessions in the middle third.		[Smith, Ronald A.; Lyons, Keith] Univ Canberra, Fac Hlth, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Smith, Ronald A.] 43 Dunbar St, Fraser, ACT 2615, Australia								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000012	11	Article; Article		
J	Sinclair, J.; Taylor, P. J.; Smith, A.; Bullen, J.; Bentley, I.; Hobbs, S. J.								Three-dimensional kinematic differences between accurate and high velocity kicks in rugby union place kicking								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			371	380		10.1177/1747954117710515			JUN 2017	2017	Place kicking occurs many times during a rugby union game with more than half of all points scored coming from place kicking. Ball velocity is an important biomechanical indicator of kicking success, but it also evident that the ball must be kicked accurately to pass between the posts. This study aimed to identify biomechanical differences in rugby place kicking kinematics when kicking towards a specific target and for maximum velocity. Ten male rugby union kickers performed place kicks in two conditions: (1) for maximum velocity and (2) towards a pre-defined target. Lower extremity kinematics were obtained using an optoelectric motion capture system operating at 500Hz. Differences in lower extremity kinematics between the two kicking conditions were examined using paired t-tests. Higher ball velocities were obtained when kicking for maximum velocity. Foot linear velocity, knee extension velocity and hip extension velocity were also found to be greater when kicking for maximum velocity. Ankle dorsiflexion and peak external rotation were found to be greater in the accuracy condition. The findings suggest that rugby kickers may have selected distinct kicking mechanics characterised by reduced joint angular velocities and a more externally rotated foot position in a deliberate attempt to improve precision, sacrificing ball velocity and thus the distance that the ball can be kicked. The specific findings from the current work have implications for coaches and applied practitioners which may facilitate improvements in kicking performance.		[Sinclair, J.; Smith, A.; Bullen, J.; Bentley, I.; Hobbs, S. J.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Coll Hlth & Wellbeing, Ctr Appl Sport & Exercise Sci, Preston, Lancs, England; [Taylor, P. J.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Sch Psychol, Coll Sci & Technol, Preston, Lancs, England; [Sinclair, J.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Preston PR1 2HE, Lancs, England								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000010	21	Article; Article		
J	Patel, Ankit K.; Bracewell, Paul J.; Gazley, Aaron J.; Bracewell, Brendon P.								Identifying fast bowlers likely to play test cricket based on age-group performances								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			328	338		10.1177/1747954117710514			JUN 2017	2017	A challenge for New Zealand cricket is identifying and retaining fast bowling talent. A methodology is described for determining individuals with a greater propensity to play test cricket for New Zealand, based solely on youth performances. Analyses were conducted on data from New Zealand youth test matches contested between 1986 and 2008, with subsequent selection for the test team as the dependent variable. Given the presence of collinearity and complex interactions amongst the variables, a regression tree technique was utilised, which ensured a pragmatic solution. After pruning, the regression tree indicated that average strike rate and average balls bowled per innings were key determining factors of future selection. Youth bowlers that had high workload (high average balls bowled) and high efficacy (low strike rate) accounted for 11/14 of those that went on to play test cricket for New Zealand. Interestingly, a further 2 of those 14 represented New Zealand in winter sports. Importantly, these results align with previous insights derived in literature. Extending this framework further enables the probability of playing test cricket for each individual to be determined by fitting a regression model to the regression tree residuals. This serves as a useful ranking system.		[Patel, Ankit K.; Bracewell, Paul J.] DOT Loves data, Wellington, New Zealand; [Patel, Ankit K.; Bracewell, Paul J.; Gazley, Aaron J.] Victoria Univ Wellington, Sch Mkt & Int Business, Wellington, New Zealand; [Bracewell, Brendon P.] Bracewell Cricket Acad, Bay Plenty, New Zealand; [Patel, Ankit K.] DOT Loves Data, Res & Dev, Hubbard Parker Bldg Level 1, Wellington, New Zealand								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000005	19	Article; Article		
J	Bertram, Rachael; Culver, Diane M.; Gilbert, Wade								A university sport coach community of practice: Using a value creation framework to explore learning and social interactions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			287	302		10.1177/1747954117710503			JUN 2017	2017	Coaches often identify social learning situations as the most valuable and influential to their learning. Thus, researchers have proposed implementing social learning initiatives, in particular, the community of practice approach. The purpose of the present study was to explore how an existing coach community of practice was created and sustained in a university setting, and to assess what value was created by participating in the community of practice. Participants included four National Collegiate Athletic Association Division 1 coaches from a university in the Southwestern United States. Data collection included an individual interview with each coach. Interviews were analysed using a value creation framework. The findings revealed that the coaches created value within all five cycles of Wenger etal.'s framework. In particular, the coaches learned a number of coaching strategies, some of which they were able to implement, and as a result, observe benefits in their coaching and athletes' performance.		[Bertram, Rachael; Culver, Diane M.] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, 125 Univ Private, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada; [Gilbert, Wade] Calif State Univ Fresno, Dept Kinesiol, Fresno, CA 93740 USA; [Bertram, Rachael] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, 125 Univ Private, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada								47							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000001	43	Article; Article		
J	King, D.; Hecimovich, M.; Clark, T.; Gissane, C.								Measurement of the head impacts in a sub-elite Australian Rules football team with an instrumented patch: An exploratory analysis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	3			359	370		10.1177/1747954117710512			JUN 2017	2017	An investigation was made of the frequency, magnitude, and distribution of head impacts in Australian Football League players over a season of matches. In a prospective cohort analysis of impact magnitude, frequency, and distribution on data collected with a wireless head impact sensor worn behind the ear of 23 players, a total of 4903 impacts were recorded. Players experienced on average 407 +/- 143 impacts over the duration of the study resulting in 30 +/- 38 impacts per-player per-match. Linear accelerations ranged from 10 g to 153 g with a mean, median, and 95th percentile value of 17 g, 13 g, and 40 g, respectively. Rotational accelerations ranged from 130 rad/s(2) to 21,890 rad/s(2) with a mean, median, and 95th percentile value of 2426 rad/s(2), 1556 rad/s(2), and 7571 rad/s(2), respectively. This study obtained initial measurements on the frequency, magnitude, distribution, and risk weighted exposure of head impacts in Australia Rules Football in order to better inform medical personnel in the identification and evaluation of at-risk players for concussion. The location of impacts varied considerably with the back of the head recording more total impacts than the front, side, and top. Midfielders sustained more impacts per-player, per-match, and had higher median resultant linear accelerations than forwards and defenders. The results of this study, in which most impacts were within the low severity limit for linear, rotational, HITSP, and RWECP, indicate that Australian Rules football needs to include more encompassing methods of examination of player exposure.		[King, D.] Auckland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth & Environm Sci, Auckland, New Zealand; [Hecimovich, M.] Univ Northern Iowa, Div Athlet Training, Cedar Falls, IA USA; [Clark, T.] Australian Coll Phys Educ, Fac Sport Performance, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Gissane, C.] St Marys Univ, Sch Sport Hlth & Appl Sci, Twickenham, England; [King, D.] Hutt Valley Dist Hlth Board, Emergency Dept, Private Bag 31-907, Lower Hutt, New Zealand								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000403152000009	59	Article; Article		
J	Sari, Ihsan; Bayazit, Betul								The Relationship Between Perceived Coaching Behaviours, Motivation and Self-Efficacy in Wrestlers								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			239	251		10.1515/hukin-2017-0065			JUN 2017	2017	The current study aimed to determine the relationship between perceived coaching behaviours, motivation, self-efficacy and general self-efficacy of wrestlers who competed in the Super National Wrestling League. The sample consisted of 289 wrestlers. The Self-Efficacy Scale was used to measure self-efficacy perception, the Sports Motivation Scale to measure the motivation of the athletes, the Leadership Scale for Sport to determine perceived leadership behaviours, and the General Self-Efficacy Scale to determine the general self-efficacy perceptions of the athletes. For data analyses, SPSS 17.0 software was used. According to the results of the regression analyses performed with the enter method, it was found that perceived training and instruction behaviour along with perceived social support behaviour significantly explained self-efficacy (adjusted R-2 =.03), intrinsic motivation (adjusted R-2 =.04) and amotivation (adjusted R-2-=.05). Also, perceived training and instruction behaviour (beta =.51), autocratic behaviour (beta = -.17) and social support behaviour (beta = -.27) significantly contributed to athletes' general self-efficacy (adjusted R-2 =. 10). In light of these findings, it may be argued that perceived training and instruction behaviour may be beneficial for self-efficacy, general self-efficacy, intrinsic motivation, and amotivation. On the other hand, it could be stated that perceived autocratic behaviour may be detrimental for general self-efficacy of the athletes. As for social support behaviour, it may be suggested that it is negatively related to self-efficacy, general self-efficacy and intrinsic motivation. Lastly, a positive relationship was observed between perceived social support behaviour and amotivation in wrestlers. The results reveal the specific characteristics of wrestlers and suggest some implications for wrestling coaches.		[Sari, Ihsan] Sakarya Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Serdivan Sakarya, Turkey; [Bayazit, Betul] Kocaeli Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Izmit, Turkey; [Sari, Ihsan] Sakarya Univ, Spor Bilimleri Fak, TR-54187 Serdivan Sakarya, Turkey								19							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100024	71	Article; Article		
J	Kubayi, Alliance; Coopoo, Yoga; Morris-Eyton, Heather								Perceived Hindrances Experienced by Sport Coaches in South Africa								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			233	238		10.1515/hukin-2017-0064			JUN 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to examine perceived hindrances encountered by sport coaches in the Gauteng Province of South Africa. A total of 224 sport coaches (122 males and 102 females) were purposively recruited to participate in this study. An exploratory factor analysis was used to assess the factor structure of the Perceived Hindrance Scale. The results of this study indicated the following as major hindrances encountered by sport coaches: "Lack of support systems for women players", "Lack of support for women coaches from superiors", "Low salary", "Lack of opportunities for promotion", "Difficulties with parents/spectators" and "Lack of job security". Recommendations on strategies to overcome these perceived hindrances are discussed.		[Kubayi, Alliance; Coopoo, Yoga; Morris-Eyton, Heather] Univ Johannesburg, Dept Sport & Movement Studies, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100023	26	Article; Article		
J	Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto; Gabriel Lucas-Cuevas, Angel; Perez-Soriano, Pedro; Menayo, Ruperto; Maria Gea-Garcia, Gemma								Plantar Pressure Differences Between Nordic Walking Techniques								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			221	231		10.1515/hukin-2017-0063			JUN 2017	2017	High plantar pressure has been associated with increased risk of injury. The characteristics of each physical activity determine the load on the lower limbs. The influence of Nordic Walking (NW) technique on plantar pressure is still unknown. The aim of this study was to analyze the differences between plantar pressure during NW with the Diagonal technique (DT) versus Alpha technique (AT) and compare them with the pressure obtained during normal walking (W). The normality and sphericity of the plantar pressure data were checked before performing a two-way repeated measures ANOVA in order to find differences between speeds (preferred, fast) and the gait (NW, W) as within-subject factors. Then, a t-test for independent measures was used to identify the specific differences between NW techniques. The strength of the differences was calculated by means of the effect size (ES). The results demonstrated that during NW with AT at preferred speed the pressure was lower under the Calcaneus, Lateral Metatarsal and Toes compared to the DT group (p = 0.046, ES = 1.49; p = 0.015, ES = 1.44; p = 0.040, ES = 1.20, respectively). No differences were found at the fast speed (p > 0.05). Besides the increase in walking speed during NW (p < 0.01), both technique groups showed lower pressure during NW compared to W under the Hallux and Central Metatarsal heads (F = 58.321, p = 0.000, ES = 2.449; F = 41.917, p = 0.012, ES = 1.365, respectively). As a practical conclusion, the AT technique may be the most effective of the NW techniques at reducing plantar pressure while allowing NW practitioners to achieve the physiological benefits of NW.		[Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto; Menayo, Ruperto; Maria Gea-Garcia, Gemma] Catholic Univ Murcia, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Campus Los Jeronimos S-N, Guadalupe 30107, Spain; [Gabriel Lucas-Cuevas, Angel; Perez-Soriano, Pedro] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Valencia, Spain; [Encarnacion-Martinez, Alberto] Catholic Univ Murcia, Dept Sport & Phys Educ, Campus Los Jeronimos S-N, Guadalupe 30107, Spain								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100022	37	Article; Article		
J	Lopez-Plaza, Daniel; Alacid, Fernando; Maria Muyor, Jose; Angel Lopez-Minarro, Pedro								Differences in Anthropometry, Biological Age and Physical Fitness Between Young Elite Kayakers and Canoeists								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			181	190		10.1515/hukin-2017-0059			JUN 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to determine the anthropometric and physical characteristics of youth elite paddlers and to identify the differences between kayakers and canoeists. A total of 171 male paddlers (eighty-nine kayakers and eighty-two canoeists), aged 13.69 +/- 0.57 years (mean +/- SD) volunteered to participate in this study. The participants completed basic anthropometric assessments (body mass, stretch stature, sitting height, body mass index, maturity level, sum of 6 skinfolds and fat mass percentage) as well as a battery of physical fitness tests (overhead medicine ball throw, counter movement jump, sit-and-reach and 20 m multi-stage shuttle run tests). The anthropometric results revealed a significantly larger body size (stretch stature and sitting height) and body mass in the kayakers (p < 0.01) as well as a more mature biological status (p = 0.003). The physical fitness level exhibited by the kayakers was likewise significantly greater than that of the canoeists, both in the counter movement jump and estimated VO2max (p < 0.05), as well as in the overhead medicine ball throw and sit-and-reach test (p < 0.01). These findings confirm the more robust and mature profile of youth kayakers that might be associated with the superior fitness level observed and the specific requirements of this sport discipline.		[Lopez-Plaza, Daniel; Alacid, Fernando] Catholic Univ San Antonio, Dept Phys Act & Sports, Murcia, Spain; [Maria Muyor, Jose] Univ Almeria, Lab Kinesiol Biomech & Ergon KIBIOMER, Fac Educ Sci Nursing & Physiotherapy, Almeria, Spain; [Angel Lopez-Minarro, Pedro] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Educ, Murcia, Spain; [Lopez-Plaza, Daniel] Univ Catolica San Antonio Murcia, UCAM, Campus Jeronimos S-N, Murcia 30107, Spain								20							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100018	45	Article; Article		
J	Janjic, Natasa; Kapor, Darko; Doder, Dragan; Petrovic, Aleksandar; Doder, Radoslava								A Model for Determining the Effect of the Wind Velocity on 100 M Sprinting Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			159	167		10.1515/hukin-2017-0057			JUN 2017	2017	This paper introduces an equation for determining instantaneous and final velocity of a sprinter in a 100 m run completed with a wind resistance ranging from 0.1 to 4.5 m/s. The validity of the equation was verified using the data of three world class sprinters: Carl Lewis, Maurice Green, and Usain Bolt. For the given constant wind velocity with the values + 0.9 and + 1.1 m/s, the wind contribution to the change of sprinter velocity was the same for the maximum as well as for the final velocity. This study assessed how the effect of the wind velocity influenced the change of sprinting velocity. The analysis led to the conclusion that the official limit of safely neglecting the wind influence could be chosen as 1 m/s instead of 2 m/s, if the velocity were presented using three, instead of two decimal digits. This implies that wind velocity should be rounded off to two decimal places instead of the present practice of one decimal place. In particular, the results indicated that the influence of wind on the change of sprinting velocity in the range of up to 2 m/s and was of order of magnitude of 10-3 m/s. This proves that the IAAF Competition Rules correctly neglect the influence of the wind with regard to such velocities. However, for the wind velocity over 2 m/s, the wind influence is of order 10-2 m/s and cannot be neglected.		[Janjic, Natasa] Univ Novi Sad, Fac Med, Orthopaed Surg & Traumatol Clin, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Kapor, Darko] Univ Novi Sad, Dept Phys, Fac Sci, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Doder, Dragan] Dept Sport & Sports Med Prov, Masarikova 25, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Petrovic, Aleksandar] Univ Union Nikola Tesla, Fac Real Estate Management, Belgrade, Serbia; [Doder, Radoslava] Univ Novi Sad, Fac Med, Dept Infect Dis, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Doder, Dragan] Dept Sport & Sports Med Prov, Masarikova 25, Novi Sad, Serbia								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100016	15	Article; Article		
J	Pessoa Filho, Dalton M.; Siqueira, Leandro O. C.; Simionato, Astor R.; Espada, Mario A. C.; Pestana, Daniel S.; DiMenna, Fred J.								A Rapidly-Incremented Tethered-Swimming Test for Defining Domain-Specific Training Zones								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			117	128		10.1515/hukin-2017-0053			JUN 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate whether a tethered-swimming incremental test comprising small increases in resistive force applied every 60 seconds could delineate the isocapnic region during rapidly-incremented exercise. Sixteen competitive swimmers (male, n = 11; female, n = 5) performed: (a) a test to determine highest force during 30 seconds of all-out tethered swimming (F-avg) and the Delta F, which represented the difference between F-avg and the force required to maintain body alignment (F-base), and (b) an incremental test beginning with 60 seconds of tethered swimming against a load that exceeded F-base by 30% of Delta F followed by increments of 5% of Delta F every 60 seconds. This incremental test was continued until the limit of tolerance with pulmonary gas exchange (rates of oxygen uptake and carbon dioxide production) and ventilatory (rate of minute ventilation) data collected breath by breath. These data were subsequently analyzed to determine whether two breakpoints defining the isocapnic region (i.e., gas exchange threshold and respiratory compensation point) were present. We also determined the peak rate of O2 uptake and exercise economy during the incremental test. The gas exchange threshold and respiratory compensation point were observed for each test such that the associated metabolic rates, which bound the heavy-intensity domain during constant-work-rate exercise, could be determined. Significant correlations (Spearmans) were observed for exercise economy along with (a) peak rate of oxygen uptake (rho = .562; p < 0.025), and (b) metabolic rate at gas exchange threshold (rho = -.759; p < 0.005). A rapidly-incremented tethered-swimming test allows for determination of the metabolic rates that define zones for domain-specific constant-work-rate training.		[Pessoa Filho, Dalton M.; Siqueira, Leandro O. C.; Simionato, Astor R.] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Inst Biosci, Rio Claro, Brazil; [Pessoa Filho, Dalton M.] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Coll Sci, Bauru, Brazil; [Espada, Mario A. C.] Inst Polytech Septubal, Septubal, Portugal; [Pestana, Daniel S.] Assoc Aquat Sports ABDA Bauru, Bauru, Brazil; [DiMenna, Fred J.] Columbia Univ, Teachers Coll, Dept Biobehav Sci, 525 W 120th St, New York, NY 10027 USA; [DiMenna, Fred J.] Columbia Univ, Teachers Coll, Dept Biobehav Sci, 525 W 120th St, New York, NY 10027 USA								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100012	35	Article; Article		
J	D'Amico, Anthony; Paolone, Vincent								The Effect of Foam Rolling on Recovery Between Two Eight Hundred Metre Runs								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			97	105		10.1515/hukin-2017-0051			JUN 2017	2017	With the increased popularity of foam rolling as a means of recovery, it is important to establish the exact manner in which the practice is useful. The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of foam rolling on recovery between two 800 m runs. Sixteen trained males (mean +/- sd; age, 20.5 +/- .5 yr; average 800 m treadmill run time, 145.2 +/- 1.8 s) participated in the study, using a randomized, crossover design. The subjects completed two 800 m runs on a treadmill, separated by a 30 min rest, during which time a foam rolling protocol or passive rest period was performed. The speed of each run was as fast as possible. Subjects had access to speed controls, but were blinded to the actual speed. Blood lactate concentration and VCO2 were measured prior to and following each run. Stride length, 800 m run time, and hip extension were measured during each run. VCO2, stride length, 800 m run time, and hip extension were not significantly different between conditions (p > .05). For blood lactate, no statistical interaction was found between condition and time (p > .05). Foam rolling between two 800 m runs separated by 30 min performed by trained male runners does not alter performance.		[D'Amico, Anthony] Salem State Univ, 352 Lafayette St, Salem, MA 01970 USA; [Paolone, Vincent] Springfield Coll, 263 Alden St, Springfield, MA USA; [D'Amico, Anthony] Salem State Univ, 352 Lafayette St, Salem, MA 01970 USA								30							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100010	21	Article; Article		
J	Saeterbakken, Atle Hole; Mo, Dag-Andre; Scott, Suzanne; Andersen, Vidar								The Effects of Bench Press Variations in Competitive Athletes on Muscle Activity and Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			61	71		10.1515/hukin-2017-0047			JUN 2017	2017	The aim of the study was to compare the EMG activity performing 6RM competition style bench press (flat bench-wide grip) with 1) medium and narrow grip widths on a flat bench and 1) inclined and declined bench positions with a wide grip. Twelve bench press athletes competing at national and international level participated in the study. EMG activity was measured in the pectoralis major, anterior and posterior deltoid, biceps brachii, triceps brachii and latissimus dorsi. Non-significant differences in activation were observed between the three bench positions with the exception of 58.5-62.6% lower triceps brachii activation, but 48.3-68.7% greater biceps brachii activation in the inclined bench compared with the flat and declined bench position. Comparing the three grip widths, non-significant differences in activations were observed, with the exception of 25.9-30.5% lower EMG activity in the biceps brachii using a narrow grip, compared to the medium and wide grip conditions. The 6-RM loads were 5.8-11.1% greater using a medium and wide grip compared to narrow grip width and 18.5-21.5% lower in the inclined bench position compared with flat and declined. Comparing the EMG activity during the competition bench press style with either the inclined and declined bench position (wide grip) or using a narrow and medium grip (flat bench), only resulted in different EMG activity in the biceps- and triceps brachii. The 6RM loads varied with each bench press variation and we recommend the use of a wide grip on a flat bench during high load hypertrophy training to bench press athletes.		[Saeterbakken, Atle Hole; Mo, Dag-Andre; Andersen, Vidar] Sogn & Fjordane Univ Coll, Dept Teacher Educ & Sports, PB 133, N-6851 Sogndal, Norway; [Scott, Suzanne] Pithers Yard, Scott Studio, Castle Cary BA7 7AN, Somerset, England; [Saeterbakken, Atle Hole] Sogn & Fjordane Univ Coll, Dept Teacher Educ & Sports, PB 133, N-6851 Sogndal, Norway								58							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100007	28	Article; Article		
J	Aldret, Randy L.; Trahan, Brittany A.; Davis, Greggory; Campbell, Brian; Bellar, David M.								Effects of an Elastic Hamstring Assistance Device During Downhill Running								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			73	83		10.1515/hukin-2017-0048			JUN 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to determine the appropriateness of using an elastic hamstring assistance device to reduce perceived levels of soreness, increase isometric strength, increase passive range of motion, and decrease biomarkers of muscle damage after eccentric exercise, specifically, downhill running. This study was conducted in a university exercise physiology laboratory placing sixteen apparently healthy males ((X) over bar = 21.6 +/- 2.5 years) into two groups using a pre-test/post-test design. Pre-intervention measures taken included participants' body height, body mass, body fat, capillary blood samples, VO2max, isometric hamstring strength at 45 and 90 degrees of flexion and passive hamstring range of motion. Post-intervention measures included blood biomarkers, passive range of motion, the perceived level of soreness and isometric strength. An analysis of normality of data was initially conducted followed by multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) of hamstring strength at 45 and 90 degrees of flexion, blood myoglobin and passive range of motion of the hamstrings. Statistically significant changes were noted in subject-perceived muscle soreness and isometric strength at 90 degrees at the 24-hour post-exercise trial measure between the two groups. Results would suggest the findings could be explained by the decrease in muscle soreness from utilizing the device during the exercise trial. Further research should be conducted to address sample size issues and to determine if the results are comparable on different surfaces.		[Aldret, Randy L.; Trahan, Brittany A.; Davis, Greggory; Campbell, Brian; Bellar, David M.] Univ Louisiana Lafayette, Sch Kinesiol, Lafayette, LA 70504 USA; [Aldret, Randy L.] Athlet Training Program, Sch Kinesiol, 225 Cajundome Blvd, Lafayette, LA 70506 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100008	36	Article; Article		
J	Lesnik, Blaz; Sekulic, Damir; Supej, Matej; Esco, Michael R.; Zvan, Milan								Balance, Basic Anthropometrics and Performance in Young Alpine Skiers; Longitudinal Analysis of the Associations During Two Competitive Seasons								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				57	1			7	16		10.1515/hukin-2017-0042			JUN 2017	2017	Balance is hypothesized to be important in alpine skiing, while it is known that balance depends on anthropometric indices. The aim of this investigation was to explore the association between balance, anthropometrics and skiing-results over two competitive seasons among youth alpine-skiers. Eighty-one skiers (40 females) participated in this study. The participants were tested twice over two competitive seasons: when they were 12-13 years old (U14) and when they were 14-15 years old (U16). The variables consisted of anthropometrics (body height and body mass) and three balance indexes (medio-lateral-, anterio-posterior- and overall-stability-index). Additionally, skiing results in U14 and U16 were evaluated. The balance status did not change significantly over the observed period of time regardless of the significant changes in body mass and height. The relationships between balance and skiing results were higher in the U14 (Pearson's r = 0.45-0.54) than in the U16 (Pearson's r = 0.05-0.28). The relationships between anthropometrics and competitive results were generally stronger in girls (Pearson's r = 0.39-0.88) than in boys (Pearson's r = 0.26-0.58). After clustering athletes into three achievement groups on a basis of their competitive performance, discriminant canonical analysis showed that relationships between balance and skiing results decreased, while the relationships between anthropometrics and skiing results increased over the two observed seasons. This study highlighted the importance of balance in youth alpine skiing in the age range of 11-14 years.		[Lesnik, Blaz; Supej, Matej; Zvan, Milan] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Sekulic, Damir] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Teslina 6, Split 21000, Croatia; [Sekulic, Damir] Univ Split, Univ Dept Hlth Care Studies, Split, Croatia; [Esco, Michael R.] Univ Alabama, Dept Kinesiol, Tuscaloosa, AL USA; [Sekulic, Damir] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Teslina 6, Split 21000, Croatia								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000404979100002	24	Article; Article		
J	Bonato, Matteo; Agnello, Luca; Galasso, Letizia; Montaruli, Angela; Roveda, Eliana; Merati, Giampiero; La Torre, Antonio; Vitale, Jacopo A.								Acute Modification of Cardiac Autonomic Function of High-Intensity Interval Training in Collegiate Male Soccer Players with Different Chronotype: A Cross-Over Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			286	294					JUN 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to evaluate if the time of the day (8.00 a.m. vs 8.00 p.m.) and chronotype could influence autonomic cardiac control in soccer players in relation to an acute session of high-intensity interval training. The morningness-eveningness questionnaire was administered to recruit Morning-type and Evening-type collegiate male soccer players. Therefore, 24 players (12 Morning-types and 12 Evening-types) were randomly assigned, to either morning (n = 12; age 23 +/- 3 years; height 1.75 +/- 0.07 m; body mass 73 +/- 10 kg; weekly training volume 8 +/- 2 hours), or evening (n = 12; age 21 +/- 3 years; height 1.76 +/- 0.05 m; body mass 75 +/- 11 kg; weekly training volume 8 +/- 3 hours) training. Heart Rate Variability vagal and sympatho/vagal indices were calculated in time, frequency and complexity domains at rest, before, after 12 and 24 hours of high-intensity interval training. Before evening training session, a higher resting heart rate was observed which was determined by a marked parasympathetic withdrawal with a sympathetic predominance. Moreover, Evening-type subjects during morning training session, present a significant higher heart rate that corresponded to significant higher vagal indices with a significant lower parasympathetic tone that returned to the rest values after 24 hours of the cessation of high-intensity interval training exercise. On the contrary, Morning-type subjects did not reveal any significant differences with Evening-Type subjects during evening high-intensity interval training session. Stress response of high-intensity interval training is influenced by both the time of the day and by the chronotype. Understanding the Heart Rate Variability response to high-intensity interval training can be an additional important procedure for evaluating of cardiovascular recovery in soccer players. Moreover, these results suggest that an athlete's chronotype should be taken into account when scheduling a high-intensity interval training exercise.		[Bonato, Matteo; Agnello, Luca; Galasso, Letizia; Montaruli, Angela; Roveda, Eliana; Merati, Giampiero; La Torre, Antonio] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy; [Merati, Giampiero] Don Carlo Gnocchi Fdn, Ctr Sport Med, Milan, Italy; [Vitale, Jacopo A.] IRCCS Ist Ortoped Galeazzi, LaBS Lab Biol Struct Mech, Milan, Italy; [Bonato, Matteo] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Milan, Italy								40							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500016	43	Article; Article		
J	Rubajczyk, Krystian; Swierzko, Kamil; Rokita, Andrzej								Doubly Disadvantaged? The Relative Age Effect in Poland's Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			280	285					JUN 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to identify the relative age effect (RAE) in young Polish male (n = 3849) and female (n = 3419) basketball players aged 14 to 22 years competing in the elite games of the Polish Youth Championships. The distribution of birth dates, body height, players' match statistics, and the results of teams participating in championships were identified. The RAE was observed in male and female group, regardless of players age. Nevertheless, the greatest disproportion in the distribution of dates of birth was found in U16 group of boys (V = 0.25, p < 0.0001). Significant differences in body height were identified in U14 and U16 groups of boys (p < 0.0001) and U14 group of girls (p < 0.01). The RAE was the most detrimental in the group of boys from teams ranked 9th or lower (p < 0.0001). The groups of male and female basketball players from the top 3 teams had the highest average body height (p < 0.001). In U14 boys, significantly higher match results and performance index ratings (PIR) were observed for players born in the first half of a calendar year. The research results show the impact of the RAE on the success of youth basketball teams in Poland. The month of birth, body height and sex may determine sporting achievements in youth basketball. Coaches should consider the chronological age and pubertal growth acceleration (APHV-age at peak height velocity) of players to optimize the process of identifying gifted basketball players, especially among boys of 14 years of age.		[Rubajczyk, Krystian; Swierzko, Kamil; Rokita, Andrzej] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Dept Team Games Sport, Wroclaw, Poland; [Rubajczyk, Krystian] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Team Games Sport, Wroclaw, Poland								46							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500015	34	Article; Article		
J	Stenson, Mary C.; Stenson, Matthew R.; Matthews, Tracey D.; Paolone, Vincent J.								5000 Meter Run Performance is not Enhanced 24 Hrs After an Intense Exercise Bout and Cold Water Immersion								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			272	279					JUN 2017	2017	Cold water immersion (CWI) is used by endurance athletes to speed recovery between exercise bouts, but little evidence is available on the effects of CWI on subsequent endurance performance. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of CWI following an acute bout of interval training on 5000 m run performance 24 hrs after interval training, perceived muscle soreness (PMS), range of motion (ROM), thigh circumference (TC), and perceived exertion (RPE). Nine endurance-trained males completed 2 trials, each consisting of an interval training session of 8 repetitions of 1200 m at a running pace equal to 75% of VO(2)peak, either a control or CWI treatment, and a timed 5000 m run 24 hrs post interval training session. CWI was performed for 12 min at 12 degrees Celsius on the legs. Recovery treatments were performed in a counterbalanced design. Run time for 5000 m was not different between the CWI and control trials (CWI = 1317.33 +/- 128.33 sec, control = 1303.44 +/- 105.53 sec; p = 0.48). PMS increased significantly from baseline to immediately post exercise (BL = 1.17 +/- 0.22, POST = 2.81 +/- 0.52; p = 0.02) and remained elevated from baseline to 24 hrs post exercise (POST24 = 2.19 +/- 0.32; p = 0.02), but no difference was observed between the treatments. No differences were observed for the interaction between time and treatment for TC (lambda = 0.73, p = 0.15) and ROM (lambda = 0.49; p = 0.10). CWI performed immediately following an interval training exercise bout did not enhance subsequent 5000 m run performance or reduce PMS. CWI may not provide a recovery or performance advantage when athletes are accustomed to the demands of the prior exercise bout.		[Stenson, Mary C.] St Johns Univ, Coll St Benedict, Exercise Sci & Sport Studies, Collegeville, MN 56321 USA; [Stenson, Matthew R.] St Johns Univ, Coll St Benedict, Psychol, Collegeville, MN 56321 USA; [Matthews, Tracey D.] Springfield Coll, Sch Hlth Phys Educ & Recreat, Springfield, MA USA; [Paolone, Vincent J.] Springfield Coll, Phys Educ, Springfield, MA USA; [Paolone, Vincent J.] Springfield Coll, Grad Exercise Physiol, Springfield, MA USA; [Stenson, Mary C.] St Johns Univ, Coll St Benedict, Exercise Sci & Sport Studies, Collegeville, MN 56321 USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500014	33	Article; Article		
J	Nygaard, Havard; Ronnestad, Bent R.; Hammarstrom, Daniel; Holmboe-Ottesen, Gerd; Hostmark, Arne T.								Effects of Exercise in the Fasted and Postprandial State on Interstitial Glucose in Hyperglycemic Individuals								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			254	263					JUN 2017	2017	The purpose of the present study was to test if one bout of moderate exercise performed in either the fasted or the postprandial state affects glucose values measured over 22 hours. Twelve participants diagnosed with hyperglycemia not using antidiabetic medications underwent 3 test days in a randomized cross-over design encompassing one test day without exercise, one test day with 60 min of treadmill walking prior to breakfast, and one test day with an identical bout of exercise 30 min after the start of breakfast. Continuous glucose monitoring was performed until the next morning (>22 hours). There was no significant effect of type of test day on the area under the glucose curve for the entire 22 hours period (p = 0.111). None of the exercise interventions had a significant effect on the area under the glucose curve after breakfast, lunch or dinner. However, the postprandial exercise bout tended to decrease the area under the glucose curve after the evening meal compared to the fasted exercise bout (24.2 +/- 6.2 vs. 27.6 +/- 6.0 mmol.hour.L-1, p = 0.031). Furthermore, the postprandial exercise decreased the mean of the 10 highest glucose values measured in each individual (8.6 +/- 1.9 mmol.L-1) over 22 hours compared to both the control day (9.3 +/- 2.1 mmol.L-1) and the day with fasted exercise (9.6 +/- 1.7 mmol. L-1, p = 0.012 and 0.009 respectively). Postprandial exercise also decreased the glycemic variability compared to the control day (1.22 +/- 0.49 vs. 1.58 +/- 0.52 mmol.L-1, p = 0.015). We conclude that performing moderate exercise in the postprandial state after breakfast, but not in the fasted state, decreases glucose excursions during the subsequent 22 hours period in hyperglycemic individuals not using antidiabetic medications.		[Nygaard, Havard; Ronnestad, Bent R.; Hammarstrom, Daniel] Lillehammer Univ Coll, Dept Sport Sci, Lillehammer, Norway; [Holmboe-Ottesen, Gerd] Univ Oslo, Inst Hlth & Soc, Dept Community Med, Nutr, Oslo, Norway; [Hostmark, Arne T.] Univ Oslo, Inst Hlth & Soc, Dept Community Med, Oslo, Norway; [Nygaard, Havard] Lillehammer Univ Coll, Dept Sport Sci, Lillehammer, Norway								27							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500012	66	Article; Article		
J	Purge, Priit; Hofmann, Peter; Merisaar, Rait; Mueller, Alexander; Tschakert, Gerhard; Maestu, Jarek; Jurimae, Jaak								The Effect of Upper Body Anaerobic Pre-Loading on 2000-m Ergometer-Rowing Performance in College Level Male Rowers								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			264	271					JUN 2017	2017	Elevated blood lactate has been shown to influence subsequent anaerobic exercise due to an inhibition of glycolysis. The aim of the present study was therefore to investigate the influence of a short and high-intensity anaerobic arm crank pre-load exercise (HIE) added to a low-intensity warm-up on cardio-respiratory and metabolic responses on a subsequent all out rowing exercise. Nine well-trained college level male rowers (24.6 +/- 7.1 yrs; 1.87 +/- 0.07 m; 88.9 +/- 9.8 kg; 18.5 +/- 3.7% body fat) volunteered to participate in the study. The subjects performed a maximal 2000-m rowing ergometer performance tests (MPT) twice. One MPT was preceded by a normal low intensity warm-up (MPTlow), while another one was performed with the additional inclusion of the HIE protocol (MPThigh). Overall rowing performance in the MPTlow was significantly faster (p = 0.004) by 3.7 +/- 2.8 sec compared to the MPThigh condition (401.7 +/- 23.0 s v. 405.4 +/- 23.3 s) but the reduction in speed was found only for the first 1000-m (p = 0.017). Net La increase from rest to the end of the MPTlow was 11.9 +/- 2.3 mmol.l(-1) which was significantly higher (p = 0.0001) compared to the MPThigh condition (6.3 +/- 1.8 mmol.l(-1)). Carbon dioxide output was significantly lower in the second (p = 0.041), third (p = 0.009), fourth (p = 0.036) and fifth (p = 0.028) 250-m split in the MPThigh compared to the MPTlow test. In conclusion, HIE upper-body anaerobic pre-load added to a standard low intensity warm-up protocol decreased anaerobic performance only in the early stages of the MPThigh but the latter part was unaffected. The inhibition of glycolysis in the first minute of the workout might allow a different race strategy, which needs to be investigated in further studies.		[Purge, Priit; Merisaar, Rait; Maestu, Jarek; Jurimae, Jaak] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Inst Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, Tartu, Estonia; [Hofmann, Peter; Mueller, Alexander; Tschakert, Gerhard] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Sports Sci, Exercise Physiol Training & Training Therapy Res, Graz, Austria; [Purge, Priit] Univ Tartu, Inst Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, Ulikooli 18, EE-50090 Tartu, Estonia								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500013	32	Article; Article		
J	Janusevicius, Donatas; Snieckus, Audrius; Skurvydas, Albertas; Silinskas, Viktoras; Trinkunas, Eugenijus; Aureli Cadefau, Joan; Kamandulis, Sigitas								Effects of High Velocity Elastic Band versus Heavy Resistance Training on Hamstring Strength, Activation, and Sprint Running Performance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			239	246					JUN 2017	2017	Hamstring muscle injuries occur during high-speed activities, which suggests that muscular strength at high velocities may be more important than maximal strength. This study examined hamstring adaptations to training for maximal strength and for strength at high velocities. Physically active men (n = 25; age, 23.0 +/- 3.2 years) were randomly divided into: (1) a resistance training (RT, n = 8) group, which performed high-load, low-velocity concentric-eccentric hamstring contractions; (2) a resistance training concentric (RTC; n = 9) group, which performed high-load, low-velocity concentric-only hamstring contractions; and (3) a high-velocity elastic band training (HVT, n = 8) group, which performed low-load, high-velocity concentrice-ccentric hamstring contractions. Pre-and posttraining tests included hamstring strength on a hamstring-curl apparatus, concentric knee extension-flexion at 60 degrees/s, 240 degrees/s, and 450 degrees/s, eccentric knee flexion at 60 degrees/s and 240 degrees degrees/s, hamstring and quadriceps coactivation, knee flexion and extension frequency in the prone position, and 30-m sprint running speed from a stationary start and with a running start. Knee flexor torque increased significantly by 21.1% +/- 8.1% in the RTC group and 16.2% +/- 4.2% in the RT group (p < 0.05 for both groups). Hamstring coactivation decreased significantly in both groups. In the HVT group, knee flexion and extension frequency increased by 17.8% +/- 8.2%, concentric peak torque of the knee flexors at 450 degrees/s increased by 31.0% +/- 12.0%, hamstring coactivation decreased, and running performance over 30 m improved (p < 0.05 for all parameters). These findings suggest that resistance training at high velocities is superior to traditional heavy resistance training for increasing knee flexor strength at high velocities, movement frequency, and sprint running performance. These findings also indicate that traditional training approaches are effective for increasing knee flexor strength and reducing knee extensor coactivation, but this outcome is limited to low and moderate speeds.		[Janusevicius, Donatas; Snieckus, Audrius; Skurvydas, Albertas; Silinskas, Viktoras; Trinkunas, Eugenijus; Kamandulis, Sigitas] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Inst Sport Sci & Innovat, Kaunas, Lithuania; [Aureli Cadefau, Joan] Inst Nacl Educ Fis, Barcelona, Spain; [Snieckus, Audrius] Lithuanian Sports Univ, Inst Sport Sci & Innovat, Kaunas, Lithuania								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500010	62	Article; Article		
J	Cipryan, Lukas; Tschakert, Gerhard; Hofmann, Peter								Acute and Post-Exercise Physiological Responses to High-Intensity Interval Training in Endurance and Sprint Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			219	229					JUN 2017	2017	The purpose of the presented study was to compare acute and post-exercise differences in cardiorespiratory, metabolic, cardiac autonomic, inflammatory and muscle damage responses to high-intensity interval exercise (HIIT) between endurance and sprint athletes. The study group consisted of sixteen highly-trained males (age 22.1 +/- 2.5 years) participating in endurance (n = 8) or sprint (n = 8) sporting events. All the participants underwent three exercise sessions: short HIIT (work interval duration 30s), long HIIT (3min) and constant load exercise (CE). The exercise interventions were matched for mean power, total time and in case of HIIT interventions also for work-to-relief ratio. The acute cardiorespiratory (HR,VO2, RER) and metabolic (lactate) variables as well as the post-exercise changes (up to 3 h) in the heart rate variability, inflammation (interleukin-6, leucocytes) and muscle damage (creatine kinase, myoglobin) were monitored. Endurance athletes performed exercise interventions with moderately (CE) or largely (both HIIT modes) higher mean VO2. These differences were trivial/small when VO2 was expressed as a percentage of VO2max. Moderately to largely lower RER and lactate values were found in endurance athletes. Markers of cardiac autonomic regulation, inflammation and muscle damage did not reveal any considerable differences between endurance and sprint athletes. In conclusions, endurance athletes were able to perform both HIIT formats with increased reliance on aerobic metabolic pathways although exercise intensity was identical in relative terms for all the participants. However, other markers of the acute and early post-exercise physiological response to these HIIT interventions indicated similarities between endurance and sprint athletes.		[Cipryan, Lukas] Ostrava Univ, Human Mot Diagnost Ctr, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Cipryan, Lukas] Ostrava Univ, Dept Human Movement Studies, Ostrava, Czech Republic; [Tschakert, Gerhard; Hofmann, Peter] Karl Franzens Univ Graz, Inst Sports Sci, Exercise Physiol Training Training Therapy Res Gr, Graz, Austria; [Cipryan, Lukas] Univ Ostrava, CDLP, Varenska 40a, Ostrava 70200, Czech Republic								50							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500008	46	Article; Article		
J	Dale, Michael J.; Coates, Alison M.; Howe, Peter R. C.; Tomkinson, Grant R.; Haren, Matthew T.; Brown, Andrew; Caldow, Marissa; Cameron-Smith, David; Buckley, Jonathan D.								No Effect of a Whey Growth Factor Extract during Resistance Training on Strength, Body Composition, or Hypertrophic Gene Expression in Resistance-Trained Young Men								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			230	238					JUN 2017	2017	Growth factors can be isolated from bovine milk to form a whey growth factor extract (WGFE). This study examined whether WGFE promoted activation of the AKT/mTOR pathway enabling increased lean tissue mass and strength in resistance trained men. Forty six men with > 6 months of resistance training (RT) experience performed 12 weeks of RT. Participants consumed 20 g/day of whey protein and were randomised to receive either 1.6 g WGFE/day (WGFE; n = 22) or 1.6 g cellulose/day (control, CONT; n = 24). The primary outcome was leg press one-repetition maximum (LP1-RM) which was assessed at baseline, 6 and 12 weeks. At baseline and 12 weeks body composition was assessed by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry, and muscle protein synthesis and gene expression were assessed (vastus lateralis biopsy) in a sub-sample (WGFE n = 10, CONT n = 10) pre-and 3 hr post-training. RT increased LP1-RM (+ 34.9%) and lean tissue mass (+ 2.3%; p < 0.05) with no difference between treatments (p > 0.48, treatment x time). Post-exercise P70(s6k) phosphorylation increased acutely, FOXO3a phosphorylation was unaltered. There were no differences in kinase signalling or gene expression between treatments. Compared with CONT, WGFE did not result in greater increases in lean tissue mass or strength in experienced resistance trained men.		[Dale, Michael J.; Coates, Alison M.; Tomkinson, Grant R.; Buckley, Jonathan D.] Univ South Australia, Sansom Inst Hlth Res, ARENA, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Howe, Peter R. C.] Univ Newcastle, Clin Nutr Res Ctr, Callaghan, NSW, Australia; [Tomkinson, Grant R.] Univ North Dakota, Dept Kinesiol & Publ Hlth Educ, Grand Forks, ND 58201 USA; [Haren, Matthew T.] Univ South Australia, Sansom Inst Hlth Res, Ctr Populat Hlth Res, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Brown, Andrew] Murray Goulburn Cooperat Ltd, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Caldow, Marissa] Univ Melbourne, Dept Physiol, Basic & Clin Myol Lab, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Cameron-Smith, David] Univ Auckland, Liggins Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Buckley, Jonathan D.] Univ South Australia, ARENA, GPO Box 2471, Adelaide, SA 5001, Australia								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500009	26	Article; Article		
J	Grabow, Lena; Young, James D.; Byrne, Jeannette M.; Granacher, Urs; Behm, David G.								Unilateral Rolling of the Foot did not Affect Non-Local Range of Motion or Balance								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			209	218					JUN 2017	2017	Non-local or crossover (contralateral and non-stretched muscles) increases in range-of-motion (ROM) and balance have been reported following rolling of quadriceps, hamstrings and plantar flexors. Since there is limited information regarding plantar sole (foot) rolling effects, the objectives of this study were to determine if unilateral foot rolling would affect ipsilateral and contralateral measures of ROM and balance in young healthy adults. A randomized within-subject design was to examine non-local effects of unilateral foot rolling on ipsilateral and contralateral limb ankle dorsiflexion ROM and a modified sit-and-reachtest (SRT). Static balance was also tested during a 30 s single leg stance test. Twelve participants performed three bouts of 60 s unilateral plantar sole rolling using a roller on the dominant foot with 60 s rest intervals between sets. ROM and balance measures were assessed in separate sessions at pre-intervention, immediately and 10 minutes post-intervention. To evaluate repeated measures effects, two SRT pre-tests were implemented. Results demonstrated that the second pre-test SRT was 6.6% higher than the first pre-test (p = 0.009, d = 1.91). There were no statistically significant effects of foot rolling on any measures immediately or 10 min post-test. To conclude, unilateral foot rolling did not produce statistically significant increases in ipsilateral or contralateral dorsiflexion or SRT ROM nor did it affect postural sway. Our statistically non-significant findings might be attributed to a lower degree of roller-induced afferent stimulation due to the smaller volume of myofascia and muscle compared to prior studies. Furthermore, ROM results from studies utilizing a single pre-test without a sufficient warm-up should be viewed critically.		[Grabow, Lena; Granacher, Urs] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Potsdam, Germany; [Young, James D.; Byrne, Jeannette M.; Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1M 3L8, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1M 3L8, Canada								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500007	47	Article; Article		
J	Ding Meng; Dong Xiaosheng; Wang Xuhui; Wang Xu; Zhang Xijin								Effects of Suspended Moxibustion on Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness: A Randomized Controlled Double-Blind Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			203	208					JUN 2017	2017	The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of suspended moxibustion upon tender point on delayed onset muscle soreness. The study was a randomized double-blind controlled trial with 50 subjects in each group. Subjects in moxibustion group received suspended moxibustion upon tender point (by palpation) twice. The controls received no treatment. Each subject received treatments twice, 24 hr and 48 hr after the delayed onset muscle soreness induction. The measurements of Pain Visual Analog Scale, maximum isometric muscle strength and circumference were made immediately after delayed onset muscle soreness induction, before and after every treatment session and 72 hr after delayed onset muscle soreness induction. There were no significantly statistical differences between two groups at all measurement time points on maximum isometric muscle strength and circumference. However, the Pain Visual Analog Scale scores after first treatment session and 72 hr after delayed onset muscle soreness induction in moxibustion group was less than the control group, with significant difference (p < 0.05). The suspended moxibustion failed to show the effect on delayed onset muscle soreness. However, results need to be cautiously interpreted because of the pilot character of this study. The suspended moxibustion has a potential effect of pain relief on DOMS from the analysis of the data of this study. A large sample size trial is needed to confirm the effect of the suspended moxibustion on DOMS in the future.		[Ding Meng; Dong Xiaosheng; Wang Xuhui; Wang Xu; Zhang Xijin] Shandong Normal Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Jinan 250014, Peoples R China; [Ding Meng] Shandong Normal Univ, Fac Phys Educ, Jinan 250014, Peoples R China								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500006	25	Article; Article		
J	Middelkamp, Jan; van Rooijen, Maaike; Wolfhagen, Peter; Steenbergen, Bert								The Effects of a Self-Efficacy Intervention on Exercise Behavior of Fitness Club Members in 52 Weeks and Long-Term Relationships of Transtheoretical Model Constructs								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			163	171					JUN 2017	2017	The transtheoretical model of behavior change (TTM) is often used to understand changes in health-related behavior, like exercise. Exercise behavior in fitness clubs is an understudied topic, but preliminary studies showed low frequencies and large numbers of drop-out. An initial 12-week self-efficacy intervention reported significant effects on exercise behavior. The objective of this follow up study is testing effects on exercise behavior over 52 weeks and the long-term relationships of all TTM constructs. In total 122 participants (M-age 42.02 yr.; SD 12.29; 67% females) were recruited and randomly assigned to group 1 (control), group 2 (self-set activities) and group 3 (self-set goals coaching). All participants were monitored 52-weeks. Measurements at baseline, 4, 8, 12, 26 and 52 weeks, using validated scales for stages of change, self-efficacy, decisional balance and processes of change. Exercise behavior and drop-outs were registered. An ANOVA revealed that group 3 significantly (p < 0.05) differed in exercise sessions from group 1 and 2 during the 12 weeks. A chi-square test indicated significant differences for continuing exercising after the intervention: 7 of group 1; 6 of group 2; 19 of group 3. In total 5 demonstrated regular exercise behavior at 26 weeks, and 3 at 52 weeks. Self-efficacy, decisional balance, and processes of change showed limited long-term changes over the later stages of change. At all measurements, participants reported more pros than cons and used more behavioral than cognitive processes. Exercise behavior of members in fitness clubs demonstrated dramatic developments in 52 weeks. The frequencies of sessions were so low that health effects will be minimal. The integrative character of the TTM appears to be weak; the data indicated limited relationships. More research is needed to understand exercise behavior and define optimal strategies to increase exercise attendance and decrease drop-outs in the long term.		[Middelkamp, Jan; Steenbergen, Bert] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Behav Sci Inst, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [van Rooijen, Maaike] Verwey Jonker Inst Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Wolfhagen, Peter] ActivityWorkx You, Zevenaar, Netherlands; [Steenbergen, Bert] Australian Catholic Univ, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Middelkamp, Jan] Montessorilaan 3,Postbox 9104, NL-6500 HE Nijmegen, Netherlands								39							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500001	46	Article; Article		
J	Cruz, Angelita B.; Kim, Hyun-Duck								Leadership Preferences of Adolescent Players in Sport: Influence of Coach Gender								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	2			172	179					JUN 2017	2017	The authors investigated the coaching behavior preferences and the relationships of these preferences with variables such as gender, type of sport, playing experience, competitive level, and coach gender among young athletes in the national badminton league. Participants were 167 elementary and high school badminton players (91 girls and 76 boys; age range = 9-18 years; M = 13.5 (SD = 2.22) years) competing in the badminton event of a national league. Players' preferences for coaching behavior were measured using athlete preference version of the LSS to evaluate the five dimensions of leadership behavior in a sporting context. Notably, young athletes strongly preferred training and instruction, followed by positive feedback, democratic behavior, social support, and autocratic behavior. An interaction effect of athlete and coach gender on the leadership dimensions of democratic behavior, autocratic behavior, and social support was found. Male athletes with female coaches preferred more democratic behavior, autocratic behavior, and social support behavior than did those with male coaches. Conversely, female players with male coaches favored more democratic behavior, autocratic behavior, and social support than did those with female coaches. This study provides valuable insight into understanding the dynamics of sport leadership environments among young athletes, and how crucial is the role of coach's gender in the athlete-coach dyad interaction.		[Cruz, Angelita B.] Keimyung Univ, Dept Phys Educ, Coll Phys Educ, Daegu City, South Korea; [Kim, Hyun-Duck] Keimyung Univ, Dept Sport Mkt, Coll Phys Educ, Daegu City, South Korea; [Kim, Hyun-Duck] Keimyung Univ, Dept Sport Mkt, 1095 Dalgubeol Daero, Daegu City 42601, South Korea								33							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402664500002	32	Article; Article		
J	Escalante, Guillermo								Exercise Modification Strategies to Prevent and Train Around Shoulder Pain								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	3			74	86		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000259			JUN 2017	2017	This article provides a summary of the literature related to shoulder pain in strength athletes. The prevalence of shoulder injuries and types of shoulder injuries sustained will be reviewed. Exercises that may predispose strength athletes to shoulder injuries and suggestions of specific exercise modifications to reduce the risk of injury will be discussed. Finally, preventive strategies to reduce the likelihood of shoulder injuries will be addressed. For a video abstract describing this issue, see video, supplemental digital content 1, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A199.		[Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Dept Kinesiol, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA; [Escalante, Guillermo] Calif State Univ San Bernardino, Dept Kinesiol, San Bernardino, CA 92407 USA								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402549300011	51	Article; Article		
J	Schoenfeld, Brad; Kolber, Morey J.; Contreras, Bret; Hanney, William J.								Roman Chair Back Extension Is/Is Not a Safe and Effective Exercise?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	3			42	45		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000284			JUN 2017	2017	The roman chair back extension exercise is performed with the intent of improving hip and spinal extensor muscle performance. Despite evidence supporting the aforementioned benefits, performance of this exercise may increase the risk for low back pain among certain population subgroups. Although a clear verdict on the risk-to-benefit ratio remains elusive, a discussion of available scientific evidence (or lack thereof) should provide strength and conditioning professionals with information necessary for decision making. We want to hear from you. Visit NSCA-SCJ.com to weigh in on the point/counterpoint quick poll.		[Schoenfeld, Brad] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Human Performance Lab, Exercise Sci, Bronx, NY 10468 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Boca Raton Orthopaed Grp, Phys Dept Therapy, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA; [Contreras, Bret] Auckland Univ Technol, Sport Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Phys Therapy Program, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Schoenfeld, Brad] Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Human Performance Lab, Exercise Sci, Bronx, NY 10468 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Boca Raton Orthopaed Grp, Phys Dept Therapy, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402549300007	25	Article; Article		
J	Hawkins, Jeremy R.; Heumann, Kristin J.								Clinical Use of a Hyperbaric Chamber as a Modality to Aid in Recovery								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	3			31	34		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000235			JUN 2017	2017	The use of hyperbaric chambers has been tried by various athletes. Some professional athletes and physicians have reported phenomenal results with their regular usage. A review of the literature does not support the prevalent use of this modality however. Using a hyperbaric chamber to treat delayed-onset muscle soreness in particular has not been substantiated. Results are inconclusive with respect to treating post-concussion syndrome and fatigue. Additional data regarding these 2 treatments are needed.		[Hawkins, Jeremy R.; Heumann, Kristin J.] Colorado Mesa Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Grand Junction, CO 81501 USA; [Hawkins, Jeremy R.] Colorado Mesa Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Grand Junction, CO 81501 USA								0							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402549300005	15	Article; Article		
J	Olivencia, Ovidio; Shamash, Kelby; Kreymer, Betsy; Kolber, Morey J.								Post-Rehabilitation Considerations for Clients With a Cervical Disc Herniation								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	3			46	57		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000237			JUN 2017	2017	Seventy percent of the population will experience neck pain (np) at some point in their lifetime. although the etiology of np is multifactorial, discogenic pathology has been implicated as a common source of symptoms. Many of these individuals seek conservative care that requires long-term management strategies extending beyond formal rehabilitation. Thus, strength and conditioning specialists may find themselves in an opportune position to guide clients in their pursuit of premorbid activity levels. this article presents an overview of discogenic pathology and the continuum of care. Emphasis is placed on post-rehabilitation management strategies including exercise programming, precautions, and interdisciplinary communication. For a video abstract of this article, see supplemental digital content 1 (see video, http://links.lww.com/SCJ/A196).		[Olivencia, Ovidio; Shamash, Kelby; Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Kreymer, Betsy] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Olivencia, Ovidio] Nova Southeastern Univ, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402549300008	59	Article; Article		
J	Kolber, Morey J.; Hanney, William J.; Cheatham, Scott W.; Salamh, Paul A.								Risk Factors for Hip Osteoarthritis: Insight for the Strength and Conditioning Professional								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	3			35	41		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000222			JUN 2017	2017	Hip osteoarthritis (oa) will affect approximately 25% of the population at some point in their lifetime. Although the etiology of hip oa is multifactorial, risk factors seem to have a role in both the incidence and escalation of signs and symptoms. This article presents an overview of risk factors associated with hip oa. Evidence underpinning and refuting some of the commonly purported risk factors is discussed within the context of providing the strength and conditioning professional with evidence-based recommendations for their clients.		[Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Program Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Cheatham, Scott W.] Calif State Univ Dominguez Hills, Div Kinesiol & Recreat, Carson, CA 90747 USA; [Salamh, Paul A.] Univ Indianapolis, Krannert Sch Phys Therapy, Sch Med, Indianapolis, IN 46227 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA								6							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402549300006	48	Article; Article		
J	Cheatham, Scott W.; Hanney, William J.; Kolber, Morey J.; Salamh, Paul A.								Osteoporosis: Exercise Programming Insight for the Sports Medicine Professional								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	3			2	13		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000302			JUN 2017	2017	Osteoporosis is a metabolic skeletal disease characterized by reduced bone mineral density that effects both sexes. An estimated 200 million people worldwide have osteoporosis, which includes 54 million people ages 50 years or older in the united states. Over the past few decades, knowledge of this condition has grown and successful management strategies have been developed in the areas of pharmacological therapy, risk mitigation, and higher level physical activity. This manuscript presents an overview of osteoporosis, evidence for prescribing interventions to mitigate bone mineral density loss, and strategies for safely man-aging these individuals.		[Cheatham, Scott W.] Calif State Univ Dominguez Hills, Div Kinesiol, Carson, CA 90747 USA; [Hanney, William J.] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Phys Therapy, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Ft Lauderdale, FL 33314 USA; [Kolber, Morey J.] Boca Raton Orthopaed Grp, Boca Raton, FL USA; [Salamh, Paul A.] Univ Indianapolis, Krannert Sch Phys Therapy, Indianapolis, IN 46227 USA; [Cheatham, Scott W.] Calif State Univ Dominguez Hills, Div Kinesiol, Carson, CA 90747 USA								3							Sport Sciences	WOS:000402549300002	50	Article; Article		
J	Drut, Bastien; Duhautois, Richard								Assortative Matching Using Soccer Data: Evidence of Mobility Bias								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	5			431	447		10.1177/1527002515588134			JUN 2017	2017	In labor economics, the theory of assortative matching focuses on the mutual selection of workers and firms. Empirical studies using Abowd, Kramarz, and Margolis' methodology (an estimation of a two-way fixed effects (FE) model) do not provide clear evidence of the existence of assortative matching between workers and firms, that is, there is no clear evidence that good employees work in good firms. In fact, negative or very small correlations are found in the literature using this approach. Andrews, Gill, Shank, and Upward suggest that positive assortative matching has not been observed in the empirical literature because of a limited mobility bias. This article uses Italian soccer championship data to test positive assortative matching. Because job turnover is significantly high in professional soccer, we use numerous movers to detect sorting. Our results indicate that estimating a standard Mincerian wage equation with numerous movers enables us to find a positive correlation between players' and firms' FE, meaning that good players tend to move to good teams. This suggests that superstar effects are at work as the unobserved component of the player FE is far more correlated with the wage than the observed component.		[Drut, Bastien] ESG Management Sch, Paris, France; [Duhautois, Richard] Ctr Etud Emploi, Erudite, Tepp, France; [Duhautois, Richard] Univ Paris Est Marne La Vallee, Erudite, Tepp, France; [Duhautois, Richard] Ctr Etud Emploi, 29 Promenade Michel Simon, F-93166 Noisy Le Grand, France								12							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000401013800001	20	Article; Article		
J	Nalbantis, Georgios; Pawlowski, Tim; Coates, Dennis								The Fans' Perception of Competitive Balance and Its Impact on Willingness-to-Pay for a Single Game								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	5			479	505		10.1177/1527002515588137			JUN 2017	2017	The economics literature related to the uncertainty of outcome hypothesis reopens the discussion of whether the fans' perceptions of competitive balance (CB) are in line with Rottenberg's and Neale's theory. This article contributes to the literature by analyzing the effect of fans' perceptions of suspensefulness on their willingness-to-pay for a single-game ticket and evaluating monetarily the (un)importance of CB. Results suggest that fans' notions of competitiveness influence their spending behavior, rising as perceived balance rises, at least up to high levels of competitiveness.		[Nalbantis, Georgios; Pawlowski, Tim] Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Fac Econ & Social Sci, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany; [Coates, Dennis] Univ Maryland Baltimore Cty, Dept Econ, Baltimore, MD 21228 USA; [Nalbantis, Georgios] Univ Tubingen, Inst Sports Sci, Fac Econ & Social Sci, Wilhelmstr 124, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany								44							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000401013800004	29	Article; Article		
J	Noland, Marcus; Stahler, Kevin								An Old Boys Club No More: Pluralism in Participation and Performance at the Olympic Games								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	5			506	536		10.1177/1527002515588138			JUN 2017	2017	This article examines the growing diversity of participation and achievement in the Olympics. A wide set of socioeconomic variables are correlated with medaling, particularly with respect to the Summer Games and women's events. Host advantage is particularly acute in judged contests such as gymnastics. However, there is evidence that the influence of correlates, such as country size, per capita income, and membership in the communist bloc is declining over time as competition becomes increasingly diverse. These effects are less evident in the Winter Games, events in which significant capital investments are required, and judged contests.		[Noland, Marcus] Peterson Inst Int Econ, Studies, Washington, DC 20036 USA; [Stahler, Kevin] Peterson Inst Int Econ, Washington, DC 20036 USA; [Noland, Marcus] East West Ctr, Washington, DC USA; [Noland, Marcus] Peterson Inst Int Econ, 1750 Massachusetts Ave NW, Washington, DC 20036 USA								24							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000401013800005	27	Article; Article		
J	Nutting, Andrew W.; Price, Joseph								Time Zones, Game Start Times, and Team Performance: Evidence From the NBA								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	5			471	478		10.1177/1527002515588136			JUN 2017	2017	Research has found that, controlling for team quality, National Basketball Association visiting teams win more often when playing to the east of their home time zones and less often when playing to the west. We reaffirm this finding for 1991-2002. We find that only these seasons' day games, and not their far more frequent night games, featured a significant relationship between time zone and visiting team win probability. We hypothesize that some of these day-game effects were biological in origin. The 2002-2013 seasons featured no significant relationship between time zones and visiting team win probability for either day or night games.		[Nutting, Andrew W.] Bryn Mawr Coll, Econ, Bryn Mawr, PA 19010 USA; [Price, Joseph] Brigham Young Univ, Econ, Provo, UT 84602 USA; [Nutting, Andrew W.] Bryn Mawr Coll, 101 N Merion St, Bryn Mawr, PA 19010 USA								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000401013800003	21	Article; Article		
J	Kipp, Kristof; Meinerz, Carolyn								A biomechanical comparison of successful and unsuccessful power clean attempts								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	2			272	282		10.1080/14763141.2016.1249939			JUN 2017	2017	Although the power clean is an almost ubiquitous exercise in the strength and conditioning setting, relatively little is known about the biomechanics of successful and unsuccessful power clean lift attempts. The purpose of this study was to determine biomechanical differences between successful and unsuccessful power clean lift attempts in male collegiate athletes. Fifteen male lacrosse players (Age: 20.1 +/- 1.2; Height: 1.78 +/- 0.07m; Body mass: 80.4 +/- 8.1kg; Relative one-repetition maximum power clean: 1.25 +/- 0.13kg/kg) were videotaped during a lifting session that required the completion of maximal effort power cleans to establish a one-repetition maximum. The position of the barbell was digitised and used to calculate the displacement, velocity, acceleration, and acceleration vector of the barbell. The results revealed that unsuccessful attempts were characterised by differences during the second pull phase. Unsuccessful lifts exhibited greater peak forward barbell displacement, lower backward barbell velocities, and lower resultant acceleration angles during the second pull. Strength and conditioning coaches should therefore emphasise limited forward motion of the barbell during the second pull and instruct athletes to generate a more backward-directed force during the second pull in order to lift greater loads during testing and subsequent lifting sessions.		[Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Meinerz, Carolyn] Med Coll Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226 USA; [Kipp, Kristof] Marquette Univ, Dept Phys Therapy, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA								27							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000399546500012	24	Article; Article		
J	Challoumas, Dimitrios; Stavrou, Antonio; Dimitrakakis, Georgios								The volleyball athlete's shoulder: biomechanical adaptations and injury associations								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	2			220	237		10.1080/14763141.2016.1222629			JUN 2017	2017	In volleyball, the dominant shoulder of the athlete undergoes biomechanical and morphological adaptations; however, definitive conclusions about their exact nature, aetiology, purpose and associations with shoulder injury have not been reached. We present a systematic review of the existing literature describing biomechanical adaptations in the dominant shoulders of volleyball players and factors that may predispose to shoulder pain/injury. A thorough literature search via Medline, EMBASE and SCOPUS was conducted for original studies of volleyball players and 15 eligible articles were identified. Assessment of study quality was performed using the STROBE statement. The reviewed literature supports the existence of a glenohumeral internal rotation deficit (GIRD) and a possible (and less pronounced) external rotation gain in the dominant vs. the non-dominant shoulder of volleyball athletes. Unlike other overhead sports, the GIRD in volleyball athletes appears to be anatomical as a response to the repetitive overhead movements and not to be associated with shoulder pain/injury. Additionally, the dominant shoulder exhibits muscular imbalance, which appears to be a significant risk factor for shoulder pain. Strengthening of the external rotators should be used alongside shoulder stretching and joint mobilisations, core strengthening and optimisation of spike technique as part of injury management and prevention programmes.		[Challoumas, Dimitrios] Royal United Hosp, Dept Trauma & Orthopaed Surg, Bath, Avon, England; [Stavrou, Antonio] Cardiff Univ, Sch Med, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Dimitrakakis, Georgios] Univ Wales Hosp, Dept Cardiothorac Surg, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Challoumas, Dimitrios] Royal United Hosp, Dept Trauma & Orthopaed Surg, Bath, Avon, England								52							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000399546500008	52	Article; Article		
J	Kariyama, Yasushi; Hobara, Hiroaki; Zushi, Koji								Differences in take-off leg kinetics between horizontal and vertical single-leg rebound jumps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	2			187	200		10.1080/14763141.2016.1216160			JUN 2017	2017	This study aimed to clarify the differences between the horizontal single-leg rebound jump (HJ) and vertical single-leg rebound jump (VJ) in terms of three-dimensional joint kinetics for the take-off leg, while focusing on frontal and transverse plane movements. Eleven male track and field athletes performed HJ and VJ. Kinematic and kinetic data were calculated using data recorded with a motion capture system and force platforms. The hip abduction torque, trunk lateral flexion torque (flexion for the swing-leg side), hip external and internal torque, trunk rotational torque, and the powers associated with these torques were larger when performing HJ because of resistance to the impact ground reaction force and because of pelvic and posture control. Pelvic rotation was noted in HJ, and this was controlled not only by the hip and trunk joint torque from the transverse plane but also by the hip abduction torque. Therefore, hip and trunk joint kinetics in the frontal and transverse plane play an important role in a single-leg jump, regardless of the jumping direction, and may also play a more important role in HJ than in VJ.		[Kariyama, Yasushi; Zushi, Koji] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan; [Hobara, Hiroaki] Natl Inst Adv Ind Sci & Technol, Human Informat Res Inst, Tokyo, Japan; [Kariyama, Yasushi] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Japan								18							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000399546500005	43	Article; Article		
J	Kipp, Shalaya; Taboga, Paolo; Kram, Rodger								Ground reaction forces during steeplechase hurdling and waterjumps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	2			152	165		10.1080/14763141.2016.1212917			JUN 2017	2017	Athletes in the 3,000m steeplechase track and field event negotiate unmovable hurdles and waterjumps. Ground reaction forces (GRF) in the steeplechase were quantified to elucidate injury risks / mechanisms and to inform coaches. Five male and five female steeplechasers participated. GRF were measured during treadmill running, and using specially mounted force platforms, during hurdle and waterjump takeoffs and landings at 5.54m/s (males) or 5.00m/s (females). Results are presented as: male mean +/- SD / female mean +/- SD. Initial and active peaks of vertical GRF during treadmill running were 2.04 +/- 0.72 / 2.25 +/- 0.28 BW and 3.11 +/- 0.27 / 2.98 +/- 0.24 BW. Compared to treadmill running, peak vertical forces were greater (p<0.001) for: hurdle takeoff (initial: 4.25 +/- 0.86 / 3.78 +/- 0.60 BW, active: 3.82 +/- 0.20 / 3.74 +/- 0.32 BW), hurdle landing (active: 4.41 +/- 1.13 / 4.21 +/- 0.21 BW), waterjump takeoff (initial: 4.32 +/- 0.67 / 4.56 +/- 0.54 BW, active: 4.00 +/- 0.24 / 3.83 +/- 0.31 BW), and waterjump landing (initial: 3.45 +/- 0.34 / #3.78 +/- 0.32 BW, active:5.40 +/- 0.78 / #6.23 +/- 0.74 BW); (#) indicates not statistically compared (n=2). Based on horizontal impulse, athletes decelerated during takeoff steps and accelerated during landing steps of both hurdling and waterjumps. Vertical GRF peaks and video indicated rearfoot strikes on the treadmill but midfoot strikes during hurdle and waterjump landings. Potentially injurious GRF occur during the steeplechase, particularly during waterjump landings (up to 7.0 BW).		[Kipp, Shalaya; Taboga, Paolo; Kram, Rodger] Univ Colorado, Dept Integrat Physiol, Boulder, CO 80309 USA; [Kipp, Shalaya] Univ Colorado, Dept Integrat Physiol, Boulder, CO 80309 USA								10							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000399546500002	34	Article; Article		
J	Sant'Ana, Jader; Franchini, Emerson; da Silva, Vinicius; Diefenthaeler, Fernando								Effect of fatigue on reaction time, response time, performance time, and kick impact in taekwondo roundhouse kick								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	2			201	209		10.1080/14763141.2016.1217347			JUN 2017	2017	Reaction time and response time are considered important abilities and can potentially affect combat performance. This study investigated the effect of a specific fatigue protocol on reaction time, response time, performance time, and kick impact. Seven male athletes reported to the laboratory on two different days. During day one, athletes performed a specific progressive taekwondo test, and on day two, a protocol for determining reaction time, response time, performance time, and kick impact before and after a time to exhaustion test at an intensity level corresponding to the maximal kick frequency obtained during the specific progressive taekwondo test. Muscle activation from rectus femoris and kick impact of the preferred limb were assessed. No differences were observed for response time and performance time. However, kick impact decreased (43 +/- 27 to 13 +/- 10g, p<0.01) while reaction time increased (145 +/- 51 to 223 +/- 133ms, p<0.05). Moderate correlation was observed between kick impact and response time (r=0.565; p<0.01), and kick impact and performance time (r=0.494; p<0.05). Results indicate that coaches and athletes may use taekwondo training programmes on coordination-based exercises leading to improve response time and to reduce fatigue effects in order to improve technique effectiveness and enhance the possibilities of scoring in a competitive situation.		[Sant'Ana, Jader; da Silva, Vinicius; Diefenthaeler, Fernando] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, Brazil; [Franchini, Emerson] Univ Sao Paulo, Dept Sport, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Diefenthaeler, Fernando] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Sports Ctr, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, Brazil								70							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000399546500006	29	Article; Article		
J	Solomito, Matthew J.; Ferreira, Joel V.; Nissen, Carl W.								Biomechanical differences between left- and right-handed baseball pitchers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	2			143	151		10.1080/14763141.2016.1186725			JUN 2017	2017	Left-handed baseball pitchers are thought to have a number of theoretical advantages compared to right-handed pitchers; however, there is limited scientific research detailing differences in the pitching mechanics of right- and left-handed pitchers. Therefore, this study sought to understand whether any kinematic and kinetic differences existed between right- and left-handed baseball pitchers. A total of 52 collegiate pitchers were included in this study; 26 left-handed pitchers were compared to 26 age-, height-, weight- and ball velocity-matched right-handed pitchers. Demographic information, passive shoulder range of motion and kinematic and kinetic data were obtained for each pitcher participating in the study. Results indicated that left-handed pitchers did not have a glenohumeral internal rotation deficit as compared to right-handed pitchers. Kinematic analysis indicated that elbow flexion, horizontal glenohumeral abduction and wrist coronal plane motion were significantly different between the two study cohorts. It was also noted that left-handed pitchers had increased elbow varus moments. The findings of this study suggest that pitching coaches should be aware that there are biomechanical differences between left- and right-handed pitchers.		[Solomito, Matthew J.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, Orthoped & Sports Med Res, Farmington, CT 06106 USA; [Ferreira, Joel V.] Univ Pittsburgh, Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg, Pittsburgh, PA USA; [Nissen, Carl W.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Elite Sports Med, Farmington, CT USA; [Solomito, Matthew J.] Connecticut Childrens Med Ctr, Dept Orthoped Surg & Sports Med, Orthoped & Sports Med Res, Farmington, CT 06106 USA								17							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000399546500001	12	Article; Article		
J	Langelier, David M.; Schneider, Kathryn J.; Hurlbert, John; Debert, Chantel T.								The importance of a neck exam in sport-related concussion: Cervical schwannoma in post concussion syndrome								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				84	88		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.01.003			MAY 2017	2017	Objective: Few cases of cervical schwannoma have been reported following head trauma. The present case, involves a schwannoma of the C2 spinal nerve mimicking post-concussion symptoms following a sport-related concussion (SRC). Design: Case study. Setting: University of Calgary, Sport Medicine Clinic, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Results: We report a 28 year old, athlete who developed headache, dizziness, photophobia, and neck pain following a cycling accident. She presented nine months later to our sports clinic with persistent symptoms. She had a normal neurological examination but complained of painful neck range of.motion, and exacerbation of symptoms with neck extension. On palpation, a lump was found in the right sub occipital muscles and MRI showed a 12 hyperintense mass at the C1-2 level. The patient underwent resection and histology revealed a schwannoma of the C2 nerve root. Following resection her symptoms improved, with no recurrence at 2 months follow up. Conclusion: Our patient's slow recovery following SRC is consistent with a schwannoma formation, which may have been precipitated by the injury itself or merely unmasked from trauma. This case illustrates the importance of a thorough physical examination and broad differential in patients presenting with worsening of symptoms after initial improvement in SRC. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Langelier, David M.; Hurlbert, John; Debert, Chantel T.] Univ Calgary, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, Foothills Med Ctr, Dept Clin Neurosci, 1403 29th ST NW, Calgary, AB T2H 2T9, Canada; [Schneider, Kathryn J.; Hurlbert, John; Debert, Chantel T.] Hotchkiss Brain Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Schneider, Kathryn J.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Schneider, Kathryn J.] Alberta Childrens Prov Gen Hosp, Res Inst, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Debert, Chantel T.] Dept Clin Neurosci, Div Phys Med & Rehabil, 1403-29 St NW, Calgary, AB T2N 2T9, Canada								3							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000013	25	Article; Article		
J	Loughran, Martin; Glasgow, Philip; Bleakley, Chris; McVeigh, Joseph								The effects of a combined static-dynamic stretching protocol on athletic performance in elite Gaelic footballers: A randomised controlled crossover trial								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				47	54		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.11.006			MAY 2017	2017	Objectives: To determine the effect of three different static -dynamic stretching protocols on sprint and jump performance in Gaelic footballers. Design: Double-blind, controlled, crossover trial. Setting: Sports Institute research environment. Participants: Seventeen male elite level Gaelic footballers, aged 18-30 years, completed three stretching protocols. Main Outcome Measures: Athletic performance was measured by countermovement jump height and power, and timed 10 m, 20 m, and 40 m sprints. Results: Static stretching reduced sprint speed by 1.1% over 40 m and 1.0% over 20 m. Static stretching also reduced countermovement jump height by 10.6% and jump power by 6.4%. When static stretching was followed by dynamic stretching, sprint speed improved by 1.0% over 20 m and 0.7% over 40 m (p < 0.05). The static -dynamic stretching protocol also improved countermovement jump height by 8.7% (p < 0.01) and power by 6.7% (p < 0.01). Conclusions: Static stretching reduces sprint speed and jump performance. Static stretching should be followed by dynamic stretching during warm-up to nullify any performance deficits caused by static stretching. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Loughran, Martin; Glasgow, Philip] Univ Ulster, Sports Inst Northern Ireland, Newtownabbey, Co Antrim, North Ireland; [McVeigh, Joseph] Univ Ulster, Sch Hlth Sci, Ctr Hlth & Rehabil Technol CHaRT, Newtownabbey, Co Antrim, North Ireland; [Bleakley, Chris] Univ Ulster, Sports & Exercise Sci, Newtownabbey, Co Antrim, North Ireland; [Loughran, Martin] Univ Ulster, Sports Inst Northern Ireland, Newtownabbey, Co Antrim, North Ireland								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000008	75	Article; Article		
J	MacDonald, Kerry; Bahr, Roald; Baltich, Jennifer; Whittaker, Jackie L.; Meeuwisse, Willem H.								Validation of an inertial measurement unit for the measurement of jump count and height								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				15	19		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.12.001			MAY 2017	2017	Objectives: To validate the use of an inertial measurement unit (IMU) for the collection of total jump count and assess the validity of an IMU for the measurement of jump height against 3-D motion analysis. Design: Cross sectional validation study. Setting: 3D motion-capture laboratory and field based settings. Participants: Thirteen elite adolescent volleyball players. Independent variables: Participants performed structured drills, played a 4 set volleyball match and performed twelve counter movement jumps. Main outcome measures: Jump counts from structured drills and match play were validated against visual count from recorded video. Jump height during the counter movement jumps was validated against concurrent 3-D motion-capture data. Results: The IMU device captured more total jumps (1032) than visual inspection (977) during match play. During structured practice, device jump count sensitivity was strong (96.8%) while specificity was perfect (100%). The IMU underestimated jump height compared to 3D motion-capture with mean differences for maximal and submaximal jumps of 2.5 cm (95%Cl: 13 to 3.8) and 4.1 cm (3.1-5.1), respectively. Conclusion: The IMU offers a valid measuring tool for jump count. Although the IMU underestimates maximal and submaximal jump height, our findings demonstrate its practical utility for field-based measurement of jump load. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[MacDonald, Kerry; Meeuwisse, Willem H.] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Sport Injury Prevent Res Ctr, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Bahr, Roald] Norwegian Sch Sport Sci, Oslo Sports Trauma Res Ctr, Dept Sports Med, Oslo, Norway; [Bahr, Roald] Aspetar Injury & Illness Prevent Program, Aspetar, Qatar; [Bahr, Roald] Orthopaed & Sports Med Hosp, Doha, Qatar; [Baltich, Jennifer] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Human Performance Lab, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Whittaker, Jackie L.] Univ Alberta, Fac Rehabil Med, Dept Phys Therapy, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Whittaker, Jackie L.] Univ Alberta, Glen Sather Sports Med Clin, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [MacDonald, Kerry] 272-6081 Univ Blvd, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z1, Canada								75							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000003	8	Article; Article		
J	Allen, Sam; Phillips, Gemma; McCaig, Steve								A biomechanical evaluation of the combined elevation test								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				1	8		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.11.001			MAY 2017	2017	Objectives: To evaluate biomechanically the relationships between the outcome of the Combined Elevation Test, its component joint motions, and thoracic spine angles. Design: Cross-sectional study. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: 18 elite swimmers and triathletes (11 males and 7 females). Main outcome measures: Combined Elevation Test outcome in forehead and chin positions. Individual joint contributions to test outcome. Results: No sex differences were found in test components, or between head positions. Test outcome was greater in the forehead position than the chin position (343 cm vs 30.2 cm; p < 0.001). The variables most strongly associated with test outcome were glenohumeral joint flexion (r = 0.86-0.97; p < 0.001), and shoulder retraction (r = 0.75-0.82; p < 0.001). Total thoracic spine angle related strongly to test outcome in females (r = 0.77 to-0.88; p < 0.05), but not in males (r = 0.17 to -0.24; p > 0.05). Conclusions: The Combined Elevation Test is an effective screening tool, measuring upper limb mobility into shoulder flexion and scapula retraction in both sexes, and thoracic extension in women. It is recommended that the test be performed in the forehead position. If a subject performs poorly on the test, follow up assessments are required to identify the impairment location. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Allen, Sam] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Epinal Way, Loughborough LET1 3TU, Leics, England; [Phillips, Gemma] Univ Manchester, Manchester Med Sch, Oxford Rd, Oxford M13 9PT, England; [McCaig, Steve] Loughborough Univ, England & Wales Cricket Board Natl Cricket Perfor, Epinal Way, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England; [Allen, Sam] Loughborough Univ, Sch Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Epinal Way, Loughborough LET1 3TU, Leics, England								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000001	23	Article; Article		
J	Funk, Stefan; Finke, Roy; Zeh, Stefan; Siebert, Tobias; Puta, Christian								Effects of a paraspinal-lumbar tape application during 7 days on the perceived area of tape contact								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				89	93		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.10.005			MAY 2017	2017	Objective: The study aimed to investigate the changes of the perceived area of tape contact during a lumbar tape application that lasted 7 days. Design: Single group, repeated measures study. Setting: University research laboratory. Participants: Twenty-three healthy collegiate students in sports science. Main outcome measures: Perceived area of tape contact was collected by preparing a drawing of their individual perceived tape outline into a printed body image. Measurements were obtained immediately after fixation of the tape (day 0), at day 3 and day 7 during application and 5 min after the release of the application (day 7). Results: There was no significant change of the perceived area of tape contact after 3 days of tape application. A significant decrease in the perceived area of tape contact was detected 7 days after application (p < 0.05) and after detaching the tape (p < 0.01) compared to the first measurement. Conclusions: Our results indicate that the perception of the area of tape contact of healthy sport students is decreased at 7 days. This effect could not be observed at 3 days. These results provide relevant information for the use of elastic tapes concerning the duration of application in medical therapy. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Funk, Stefan; Finke, Roy; Puta, Christian] Friedrich Schiller Univ Jena, Dept Sports Med & Hlth Promot, Wollnitzer Str 42, D-07749 Jena, Germany; [Funk, Stefan; Puta, Christian] Friedrich Schiller Univ Jena, Ctr Interdisciplinary Prevent Dis Related Profess, D-07737 Jena, Germany; [Siebert, Tobias] Univ Stuttgart, Dept Sports & Mot Sci, Allmandring 28, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany; [Zeh, Stefan] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Sports Management, Univ Str 30, D-95440 Bayreuth, Germany; [Funk, Stefan] Friedrich Schiller Univ Jena, Dept Sports Med & Hlth Promot, Wollnitzer Str 42, D-07749 Jena, Germany								1							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000014	21	Article; Article		
J	Habets, B.; Smits, H. W.; Backx, F. J. G.; van Cingel, R. E. H.; Huisstede, B. M. A.								Hip muscle strength is decreased in middle-aged recreational male athletes with midportion Achilles tendinopathy: A cross-sectional study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				55	61		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.09.008			MAY 2017	2017	Objective: Investigating differences in hip muscle strength between athletes with Achilles tendinopathy (AT) and asymptomatic controls. Design: Cross-sectional case-control study. Setting: Sports medical center. Participants: Twelve recreational male athletes with mid-portion AT and twelve matched asymptomatic controls. Outcome measures: Isometric strength of the hip abductors, external rotators, and extensors was measured using a handheld dynamometer. Functional hip muscle performance was evaluated with the single-leg squat. The Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment Achilles (VISA-A) questionnaire was completed to determine clinical severity of symptoms. Results: Compared to controls, participants with AT demonstrated 28.9% less isometric hip abduction strength (p = 0.012), 34.2% less hip external rotation strength (p = 0.010), and 28.3% less hip extension strength (p = 0.034) in the injured limb. Similar differences were found for the non-injured limb (26.7 41.8%; p < 0.03). No significant differences were found in functional hip muscle performance between the injured and non-injured limb or between the groups, and no significant correlation was found between hip muscle strength and VISA-A scores. Conclusion: Recreational male athletes with chronic mid-portion AT demonstrated bilateral weakness of hip abductors, external rotators, and extensors compared to their asymptomatic counterparts. These findings suggest that hip muscle strength may be important in the assessment and rehabilitation of those with AT. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Habets, B.; van Cingel, R. E. H.] Papendal Sports Med Ctr, Papendallaan 7, NL-6816 VD Arnhem, Netherlands; [Habets, B.] Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Program Clin Hlth Sci, Physiotherapy Sci, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Habets, B.; Smits, H. W.; Backx, F. J. G.; Huisstede, B. M. A.] Univ Med Ctr, Rudolf Magnus Inst Neurosci, Dept Rehabil Nursing Sci & Sport, POB 85500, NL-3508 GA Utrecht, Netherlands; [van Cingel, R. E. H.] HAN Univ Appl Sci Nijmegen, Res Grp Musculoskeletal Rehabil, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Habets, B.] Papendallaan 7, NL-6816 VD Arnhem, Netherlands								24							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000009	47	Article; Article		
J	Bailey, Daniel; Firth, Paul								Does kinesiology taping of the ankles affect proprioceptive control in professional football (soccer) players?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				94	98		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.09.001			MAY 2017	2017	Objective: To determine whether the bilateral application of kinesiology tape (KT) to professional footballers' ankles can improve their lower limb proprioception. Design: A single blind randomised crossover study. Participants were randomly assigned to complete a proprioception test in either a taped or not taped condition first. Following a wash out period, participants were then re-tested in the alternate condition. Setting: A UK Championship League Football Club, mid-season. Participants: Twenty male professional football players over the age of 18, currently match fit with no injuries. Outcome measure: Proprioception was assessed by participants undertaking the moving target program on the balance module attached to a Kin-Com 125AP isokinetic dynamometer. A paired sample two tailed t-test was used to assess whether there was a significant difference between the participants test scores in the not taped and taped conditions. Results: The bilateral application of KT to professional footballers' ankles did not bring about a significant change in participants' scores when tested with a fine movement and balance control test. Percentage accuracy score mean difference 4.2 (p = 0.285). Conclusion: The results of this study do not support the use of KT when applied to the ankles of healthy footballers as a method of improving proprioception. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bailey, Daniel] Keele Univ, Res Inst Primary Care & Hlth Sci, Keele ST5 5BG, Staffs, England; [Firth, Paul] Keele Univ, Sch Hlth & Rehabil, Keele ST5 5BG, Staffs, England; [Bailey, Daniel] Keele Univ, Res Inst Primary Care & Hlth Sci, Keele ST5 5BG, Staffs, England								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000015	40	Article; Article		
J	Coleman, B. Jay								Team Travel Effects and the College Football Betting Market								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	4			388	425		10.1177/1527002515574514			MAY 2017	2017	This research examines whether the college football betting line and over/under accurately assimilate travel effects on visiting teams, including time zones traversed; direction and distance traveled; and temperature, elevation, and aridity changes. We investigate the market's accuracy at predicting winners, point differentials, and points scored and examine its market efficiency, that is, whether travel affects the chance the home team covers the spread or the chance that an over bet wins. The betting market is found to be an inaccurate and inefficient processor of travel effects, most consistently for late-season games involving an underdog with a 1-hr time deficit versus its opponent.		[Coleman, B. Jay] Univ North Florida, Dept Management, Coggin Coll Business, 1 UNF Dr, Jacksonville, FL 32224 USA; [Coleman, B. Jay] Univ North Florida, Dept Management, Coggin Coll Business, 1 UNF Dr, Jacksonville, FL 32224 USA								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000400519200004	34	Article; Article		
J	Dronyk-Trosper, Trey; Stitzel, Brandli								Lock-In and Team Effects: Recruiting and Success in College Football Athletics								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	4			376	387		10.1177/1527002515577885			MAY 2017	2017	How important is recruiting to a football program's success? While prior research has attempted to answer this question, we utilize an extensive panel set covering 13 years of games along with a two-stage least squares approach to investigate the effects of recruiting on team success. This article also includes new control variables to account for omitted variable bias that prior work may have missed. We also split our sample to investigate whether recruiting displays heterogeneous effects across schools. Additionally, we find evidence that the benefits of recruiting are driven by team-specific effects, indicating that team success may be more heavily derived from the ability of teams to harness and improve their recruits than their ability to utilize each athlete's raw abilities. This leads to important revelations regarding future research into both the value of recruits and what drives a football team's success.		[Dronyk-Trosper, Trey; Stitzel, Brandli] Univ Oklahoma, 308 Cate Ctr Dr CCD1 322, Norman, OK 73072 USA; [Dronyk-Trosper, Trey] Univ Oklahoma, 308 Cate Ctr Dr CCD1 322, Norman, OK 73072 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000400519200003	7	Article; Article		
J	Konjer, Mara; Meier, Henk Erik; Wedeking, Katrin								Consumer Demand for Telecasts of Tennis Matches in Germany								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	4			351	375		10.1177/1527002515577882			MAY 2017	2017	The research presented here aims to fill the existing gap in empirical research on demand for individual sports. A unique data set on audiences for live broadcast tennis matches from Germany, as Europe's biggest and most competitive TV market, is analyzed. The results indicate that canonical approaches of empirical sport economics can be fruitfully applied to individual sports. Consumers prefer prestigious competitions, relevant matches, highly ranked, and German players. The findings suggest that the German tennis industry needs to provide national tennis stars in order to revitalize the interest of major networks and audiences.		[Konjer, Mara; Meier, Henk Erik; Wedeking, Katrin] Univ Munster, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Dept Social Sci Sport, Horstmarer Landweg 62b, D-48149 Munster, Germany; [Konjer, Mara] Univ Munster, Inst Sport & Exercise Sci, Dept Social Sci Sport, Horstmarer Landweg 62b, D-48149 Munster, Germany								32							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000400519200002	53	Article; Article		
J	Cisyk, Jeffrey; Courty, Pascal								Do Fans Care About Compliance to Doping Regulations in Sports? The Impact of PED Suspension in Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	4			323	350		10.1177/1527002515587441			MAY 2017	2017	There is little evidence in support of the main economic rationale for regulating athletic doping that doping reduces fan interest. The introduction of random testing for performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs) by Major League Baseball (MLB) offers unique data to investigate the issue. The announcement of a PED violation (a) initially reduces home-game attendance by 8%, (b) has no impact on home-game attendance after 15 days, and (c) has a small negative impact on the game attendance for other MLB teams. This is the first systematic evidence that doping decreases consumer demand for sporting events.		[Cisyk, Jeffrey] Univ Victoria, 3800 Finnerty Rd, Victoria, BC V8P 5C2, Canada; [Courty, Pascal] Univ Victoria, Econ, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Courty, Pascal] CEPR, 3800 Finnerty Rd, Victoria, BC V8P 5C2, Canada; [Courty, Pascal] Univ Victoria, 3800 Finnerty Rd, Victoria, BC V8P 5C2, Canada; [Courty, Pascal] CEPR, 3800 Finnerty Rd, Victoria, BC V8P 5C2, Canada								22							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000400519200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Matthews, Martyn J.; Heron, Kate; Todd, Stefanie; Tomlinson, Andrew; Jones, Paul; Delextrat, Anne; Cohen, Daniel D.								Strength and endurance training reduces the loss of eccentric hamstring torque observed after soccer specific fatigue								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				25				39	46		10.1016/j.ptsp.2017.01.006			MAY 2017	2017	Objectives: To investigate the effect of two hamstring training protocols on eccentric peak torque before and after soccer specific fatigue. Participants: Twenty-two university male soccer players. Design: Isokinetic strength tests were performed at 60/s pre and post fatigue, before and after 2 different training interventions. A 45-min soccer specific fatigue modified BEAST protocol (M-BEAST) was used to induce fatigue. Players were randomly assigned to a 4 week hamstrings conditioning intervention with either a maximum strength (STR) or a muscle endurance (END) emphasis. Main outcome measures: The following parameters were evaluated: Eccentric peak torque (EccPT), angle of peak torque (APT), and angle specific torques at knee joint angles of 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80 and 90. Results: There was a significant effect of the M-BEAST on the Eccentric torque angle profile before training as well as significant improvements in post-fatigue torque angle profile following the effects of both strength and muscle endurance interventions. Conclusions: Forty-five minutes of simulated soccer activity leads to reduced eccentric hamstring torque at longer muscle lengths. Short-term conditioning programs (4-weeks) with either a maximum strength or a muscular endurance emphasis can equally reduce fatigue induced loss of strength over this time period. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Matthews, Martyn J.; Heron, Kate; Todd, Stefanie; Tomlinson, Andrew; Jones, Paul] Univ Salford, Ctr Hlth Sci Res, Sch Hlth Sci, Salford M6 6PU, Lancs, England; [Delextrat, Anne] Oxford Brookes Univ, Fac Sport & Hlth Sci, Oxford, England; [Cohen, Daniel D.] Univ Santander, Escuela Med, Inst Invest, Santander, Colombia; [Matthews, Martyn J.] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth Sci, Frederick Rd, Salford M6 6PU, Lancs, England								22							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000402946000007	33	Article; Article		
J	Mirabile, McDonald Paul; Witte, Mark David								A Discrete-Choice Model of a College Football Recruit's Program Selection Decision								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	3			211	238		10.1177/1527002514566278			APR 2017	2017	We formalize a discrete-choice model of program selection from the view of college football recruits. With a conditional logit model, we correctly predict the recruit's preferred college for 65% of the 19,815 individuals, besting a purely random guess method (21%). We focus on the role football will play in postcollegiate careers of high-rated, mid-rated, and low-rated prospects in choosing a school. Highrated and mid-rated recruits value historical on-the-field success, historical head coach success, stadium capacity, media exposure, facilities, and coaching expenditures. Academic considerations and more recent on-the-field success, however, are more dominant factors for low-rated recruits.		[Mirabile, McDonald Paul] Sports Analyt Consulting LLC, Mt Pleasant, SC USA; [Witte, Mark David] Coll Charleston, Dept Econ & Finance, Charleston, SC 29401 USA; [Witte, Mark David] Coll Charleston, Dept Econ & Finance, Charleston, SC 29401 USA								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189600001	16	Article; Article		
J	Cronin, John; Harrison, Craig; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Spittle, Michael								Modifying Games for Improved Aerobic Fitness and Skill Acquisition in Youth								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	2			82	88					APR 2017	2017	By combining technical and tactical game components with appropriate physical loading, modified games can provide an ideal environment for young athletes to develop aerobic fitness, while at the same time accumulate precious hours of technical skills development. Furthermore, modified games provide an opportunity for players to develop their decision making and problem solving skills under stressful physical loads, which are critical factors in successful long-term player development. This article discusses those constraints believed important in optimizing aerobic fitness and skill acquisition in youth using a modified games approach. for a video abstract describing this issue, see video, supplemental digital content 1, http://links.lww.com/scj/a203.		[Cronin, John; Harrison, Craig; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Auckland Univ Technol, AUT Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Cronin, John] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Exercise Biomed & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Harrison, Craig] AUT Millennium Athlete Dev, Auckland, New Zealand; [Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Youth Phys Dev Unit, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Spittle, Michael] Victoria Univ, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living ISEAL, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Cronin, John] Auckland Univ Technol, AUT Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Cronin, John] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Exercise Biomed & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000400010400011	49	Article; Article		
J	Sugimoto, Dai; Stracciolini, Andrea; Dawkins, Corey I.; Meehan, William P., III; Micheli, Lyle J.								Implications for Training in Youth: Is Specialization Benefiting Kids?								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	2			77	81					APR 2017	2017	Early sports specialization has been a controversial topic in the field of sports medicine, training, and conditioning. Recent studies report increased sports related injuries in single sport specialized athletes compared with multisport specialized athletes. Two studies demonstrate the proportions of athletes who focused on a single sport in early ages and advanced to elite level in their later careers are <1 c1/4), furthermore, performing multiple sports was identified as an indicator for greater future athletic success. Synthesizing available evidence, participating in multiple sports seems more beneficial than focusing on a single sport. It is important to provide adequate recovery time for pediatric and adolescent athletes because they are in a growth spurt process. Finally, because a history of previous injury is evidenced as a risk factor for future sports-related injuries, preventive approaches such as resistance training need to be implemented within a training regimen for youth.		[Sugimoto, Dai; Stracciolini, Andrea; Dawkins, Corey I.; Meehan, William P., III; Micheli, Lyle J.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA 02453 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Stracciolini, Andrea; Dawkins, Corey I.; Meehan, William P., III; Micheli, Lyle J.] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Dept Orthoped, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai; Stracciolini, Andrea; Meehan, William P., III; Micheli, Lyle J.] Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA 02453 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Boston Childrens Hosp, Div Sports Med, Dept Orthoped, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sugimoto, Dai] Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA 02115 USA								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000400010400010	35	Article; Article		
J	O'Reilly, Lori; Kerksick, Chad M.; Feutz, Betsy								Unilateral Dumbbell Clean and Jerk								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	2			89	92					APR 2017	2017	Olympic-style lifts offer a number of benefits including the ability to increase power and enhance neuromuscular coordination. The unilateral dumbbell clean and jerk adds a variation to the traditional, bilateral, barbell based version of the movement that can be used to enhance stability and coordination.		[O'Reilly, Lori; Kerksick, Chad M.; Feutz, Betsy] Lindenwood Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, St Charles, MO 63301 USA; [O'Reilly, Lori] Lindenwood Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, St Charles, MO 63301 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000400010400012	8	Article; Article		
J	Poole, Jordan A.; Stearns, Rebecca L.; Lopez, Rebecca M.								Heat Acclimatization and Exertional Heat Illness Prevention in Youth Football Programs								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	2			69	76					APR 2017	2017	Athletes are at an increased risk of experiencing an exertional heat illness (ehi) due to the physical exertion required by football, particularly when performed in hot and humid conditions. Various modifications together with education and preparation by those working with youth football athletes can help mitigate the risks of exercising in the heat. The overall ehi risk for youth athletes is not well known. The purpose of this article is to review the existing literature regarding thermoregulation of younger athletes and to provide guidelines for coaches and clinicians on how to prevent ehi for safer participation in youth football.		[Poole, Jordan A.] Union Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Barbourville, KY USA; [Stearns, Rebecca L.] Univ Connecticut, Korey Stringer Inst, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Lopez, Rebecca M.] Univ S Florida, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Med, Tampa, FL 33620 USA; [Lopez, Rebecca M.] Univ S Florida, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Med, Tampa, FL 33620 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000400010400009	36	Article; Article		
J	Montalvo, Alicia M.; Tse-Dinh, Yuk-Ching; Liu, Yuan; Swartzon, Michael; Hechtman, Keith S.; Myer, Gregory D.								Precision Sports Medicine: The Future of Advancing Health and Performance in Youth and Beyond								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	2			48	58					APR 2017	2017	The emerging field of precision medicine emphasizes an individualized approach to prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of disease. Using information from an individual's genetics, environment and lifestyle, epigenetics, and other fields in precision medicine, practitioners can maximize resources by targeting pathology and human performance on the molecular level. However, practitioners may not be aware of topics within this field. Therefore, the purpose of this review is to introduce basic concepts in precision medicine to highlight their potential application to sports medicine and performance enhancement. This review provides practical suggestions for implementation of some currently available precision medicine concepts in sport.		[Montalvo, Alicia M.] Florida Int Univ, Nicole Wertheim Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Athlet Training, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Tse-Dinh, Yuk-Ching; Liu, Yuan] Florida Int Univ, Dept Chem & Biochem, Coll Arts Sci & Educ, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Tse-Dinh, Yuk-Ching; Liu, Yuan] Florida Int Univ, Biomol Sci Inst, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Swartzon, Michael; Hechtman, Keith S.] Baptist Hlth South Florida, Miami Orthoped & Sports Med Inst, Coral Gables, FL USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Cincinnati Childrens Hosp Med Ctr, Div Sports Med, SPORT Ctr, Cincinnati, OH 45229 USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Cincinnati, Dept Pediat, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Cincinnati, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Cincinnati, OH USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Micheli Ctr Sports Injury Prevent, Waltham, MA USA; [Myer, Gregory D.] Univ Penn, Dept Orthopaed, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Montalvo, Alicia M.] Florida Int Univ, Nicole Wertheim Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Athlet Training, Miami, FL 33199 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000400010400007	72	Article; Article		
J	Meyers, Robert W.; Oliver, Jon L.; Hughes, Michael G.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Cronin, John B.								New Insights Into the Development of Maximal Sprint Speed in Male Youth								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	2			2	10					APR 2017	2017	Speed is a key aspect of youth physical development programs and commonly assessed during talent identification testing protocols, yet, little is understood about the factors that underpin the natural development of maximal speed throughout childhood and adolescence. This article reviews the anthropometric, kinematic, kinetic, and asymmetry variables that contribute to sprint performance, while examining the impact that growth and maturation may have on all facets of maximal sprint performance in boys. Clear guidance is provided on the practical applications for the strength and conditioning coach that should help in design of effective speed development programs for male youth.		[Meyers, Robert W.; Oliver, Jon L.; Hughes, Michael G.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Youth Phys Dev Unit, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales; [Oliver, Jon L.; Lloyd, Rhodri S.; Cronin, John B.] AUT, New Zealand SPRINZ, Sports Performance Res Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Cronin, John B.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Exercise Biomed & Hlth Sci, Perth, WA, Australia; [Meyers, Robert W.] Cardiff Metropolitan Univ, Cardiff Sch Sport, Youth Phys Dev Unit, Cardiff, S Glam, Wales								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000400010400002	63	Article; Article		
J	Pierce, David A.; Johnson, James E.; Krohn, Brian D.; Judge, Lawrence W.								Who should we hire?: Examining coaching succession in NCAA Division I women's basketball								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	2			151	161		10.1177/1747954117694732			APR 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the performance of newly hired coaches in relation to their predecessors, and utilize the analysis to provide guidance to decision makers in college athletic departments. This study examined 185 coaching changes in Division I women's basketball in 16 conferences between 2000 and 2009. Data were collected from online sources including institutional websites, media guides, and media articles. Latent class analysis was employed to reduce the data to one item per factor. Factors included demographics, coaching ability, coaching experience, past team performance, hiring factors (coaching level change, inside/outside hire, interim, conference affiliation), and institutional factors (public/private, demographic market area, enrollment, budget, and National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics standings). Mixed models analysis was performed to identify which categories have a relationship with changes in the number of wins following a coaching change. Results suggest that past team performance was the strongest indicator of future performance after a coaching change.		[Pierce, David A.; Krohn, Brian D.] Indiana Univ Purdue Univ Indianapolis, Dept Tourism Convent & Event Management, 901 W New York St, Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA; [Johnson, James E.; Judge, Lawrence W.] Ball State Univ, Sch Kinesiol, Muncie, IN 47306 USA; [Pierce, David A.] Indiana Univ Purdue Univ Indianapolis, Dept Tourism Convent & Event Management, 901 W New York St, Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000399559000001	40	Article; Article		
J	Taylor, Robin D.; Collins, Dave; Carson, Howie J.								Sibling interaction as a facilitator for talent development in sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	2			219	230		10.1177/1747954117694926			APR 2017	2017	While current research has begun to address parental influences on talent development in sport, sibling interaction remains relatively under-examined. Therefore, this study aimed to explore the underpinning mechanisms through which sibling interaction impacts on talent development. Retrospective phenomenological interviews were conducted with four sets of siblings (n=9), where at least one sibling had competed to an elite level. Findings revealed several higher order themes that impacted positively on the talented athletes' development: regularity of interaction in sport, emotional interpersonal skills, rivalry, resilience, co-operation and separation. Separation appeared as the athlete reached elite status, suggesting that these former mechanisms primarily impact during the development phase. Such findings support and extend the sibling, elite sport and talent development literature and provide valuable insight for both practitioners and academics. Importantly, coaches should consider a sibling's role as an important mechanism outside of the formal coaching structure for talent development.		[Taylor, Robin D.; Collins, Dave; Carson, Howie J.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, 006 Greenbank Bldg, Preston PR1 2HE, Lancs, England; [Taylor, Robin D.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Inst Coaching & Performance, 006 Greenbank Bldg, Preston PR1 2HE, Lancs, England								15							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000399559000007	52	Article; Article		
J	van Maarseveen, Mariette J. J.; Oudejans, Raoul R. D.; Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.								System for notational analysis in small-sided soccer games								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	2			194	206		10.1177/1747954117694922			APR 2017	2017	The objective of this study was to compose an objective and detailed notational analysis system for 3 vs. 2 + GK small-sided soccer games, in which three roles are examined: attacker with ball, attacker without ball and defender. The actions and the outcome of the actions were registered for each player and in each role. Players earn points for each action and outcome according to an a priori determined scheme. Performance scores for each role are calculated as the average number of points a participant earns per trial. This notation system was tested on 19 highly talented female soccer players and validity and reliability of the system were determined. In addition, practical applications were discussed and the most important items of the notation system were determined and using only these items, a simplified notation system was proposed. The notation system has high ecological validity and can discriminate the high and low categorized players, but further development is necessary to increase the reliability of the system.		[van Maarseveen, Mariette J. J.; Oudejans, Raoul R. D.; Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, MOVE Res Inst Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, Van der Boechorststr 9, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Oudejans, Raoul R. D.; Savelsbergh, Geert J. P.] Amsterdam Univ Appl Sci, Fac Sports & Nutr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [van Maarseveen, Mariette J. J.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, MOVE Res Inst Amsterdam, Dept Human Movement Sci, Van der Boechorststr 9, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands								21							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000399559000005	27	Article; Article		
J	Nelson, Kendra; Strachan, Leisha								Friend, foe, or both? A retrospective exploration of sibling relationships in elite youth sport								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	2			207	218		10.1177/1747954117694923			APR 2017	2017	With the abundance of literature focusing on parental influence in sport, it is important to identify family dynamics that extend beyond parents to include siblings. In this study, sibling influence was explored through retrospective interviews with former elite youth female athletes (N=4) and their sibling (n=4) of the same sex who participated in the same sport. The purpose was to discover how siblings influence high performance sport participation. Two categories emerged from the data: positive experiences participating in the same sport (e.g. growth of relationship, development of understanding) and negative experiences participating in the same sport (e.g. sibling competition, emotional response). The participants' descriptions coincide with observational learning and both deidentification and divergence processes. The data adds to the probable sibling experiences proposed in the Developmental Model of Sport Participation and provides insight on managing sibling relations in sport. Implications and practical applications of these findings are discussed.		[Nelson, Kendra] Univ Western Ontario, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada; [Strachan, Leisha] Univ Manitoba, Fac Kinesiol & Recreat Management, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Nelson, Kendra] Univ Western Ontario, Sch Kinesiol, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada								8							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000399559000006	43	Article; Article		
J	Gonzalez-Rivera, Maria D.; Campos-Izquierdo, Antonio; Villalba, Ana I.; Hall, Nathan D.								Sources of knowledge used by Spanish coaches: A study according to competition level, gender and professional experience								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	2			162	174		10.1177/1747954117694733			APR 2017	2017	This research analyzed sources of knowledge used by Spanish coaches according to competition level, gender, and professional experience. It provides valuable insight regarding the influence of demographic factors on the knowledge acquisition of coaches in a sub-group of the population (Spanish coaches) for which little is known. Participants were 675 coaches of different team and individual sports. Data were collected through the use of a standardized validated questionnaire. Results indicated that coaches in Spain subscribe to informal knowledge acquisition methods more than formal and non-formal ones. The sources of knowledge most used were an exchange of knowledge with other professionals, observation of other coaches, and previous athletic experience. The sources of knowledge least used were reading books or magazines, and conducting research. Additionally, it was found that coach demographics were associated with differences in the priority given to specific sources of knowledge. Consequently, commonly utilized formal knowledge translation approaches may need to be reconsidered.		[Gonzalez-Rivera, Maria D.; Villalba, Ana I.] Univ Alcala, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Ctra Madrid Barcelona Km 33,600, Madrid 2887, Spain; [Campos-Izquierdo, Antonio] Polythec Univ Madrid, Fac Sci Phys Act & Sport, Madrid, Spain; [Hall, Nathan D.] Univ Winnipeg, Fac Kinesiol & Appl Hlth, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Gonzalez-Rivera, Maria D.] Univ Alcala, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Ctra Madrid Barcelona Km 33,600, Madrid 2887, Spain								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000399559000002	58	Article; Article		
J	Revie, Matthew; Wilson, Kevin J.; Holdsworth, Rob; Yule, Stuart								On modeling player fitness in training for team sports with application to professional rugby								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	2			183	193		10.1177/1747954117694736			APR 2017	2017	It is increasingly important for professional sports teams to monitor player fitness in order to optimize performance. Models have been put forward linking fitness in training to performance in competition but rely on regular measurements of player fitness. As formal tests for measuring player fitness are typically time-consuming and inconvenient, measurements are taken infrequently. As such, it may be challenging to accurately predict performance in competition as player fitness is unknown. Alternatively, other data, such as how the players are feeling, may be measured more regularly. This data, however, may be biased as players may answer the questions differently and these differences may dominate the data. Linear mixed methods and support vector machines were used to estimate player fitness from available covariates at times when explicit measures of fitness were unavailable. Using data provided by a professional rugby club, a case study was used to illustrate the application and value of these models. Both models performed well with R-2 values ranging from 60% to 85%, demonstrating that the models largely captured the biases introduced by individual players.		[Revie, Matthew] Univ Strathclyde, Dept Management Sci, Sir William Duncan Bldg,130 Rottenrow, Glasgow G4 0GE, Lanark, Scotland; [Wilson, Kevin J.] Newcastle Univ, Sch Math & Stat, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Tyne & Wear, England; [Holdsworth, Rob] Scottish Rugby Union, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Yule, Stuart] Glasgow Warriors Rugby Club, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Revie, Matthew] Univ Strathclyde, Dept Management Sci, Sir William Duncan Bldg,130 Rottenrow, Glasgow G4 0GE, Lanark, Scotland								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000399559000004	31	Article; Article		
J	Phibbs, Padraic J.; Jones, Ben; Roe, Gregory A. B.; Read, Dale B.; Darrall-Jones, Joshua; Weakley, Jonathon J. S.; Till, Kevin								We know they train, but what do they do? Implications for coaches working with adolescent rugby union players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	2			175	182		10.1177/1747954117694734			APR 2017	2017	Limited information is available regarding the training loads of adolescent rugby union players. One-hundred and seventy male players (age 16.1 +/- 1.0 years) were recruited from 10 teams representing two age categories (under-16 and under-18) and three playing standards (school, club and academy). Global positioning systems, accelerometers, heart rate and session-rating of perceived exertion (s-RPE) methods were used to quantify mean session training loads. Session demands differed between age categories and playing standards. Under-18 academy players were exposed to the highest session training loads in terms of s-RPE (236 +/- 42 AU), total distance (4176 +/- 433m), high speed running (1270 +/- 288m) and PlayerLoad (424 +/- 56 AU). Schools players had the lowest session training loads in both respective age categories. Training loads and intensities increased with age and playing standard. Individual monitoring of training load is key to enable coaches to maximise player development and minimise injury risk.		[Phibbs, Padraic J.; Jones, Ben; Roe, Gregory A. B.; Read, Dale B.; Darrall-Jones, Joshua; Weakley, Jonathon J. S.; Till, Kevin] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, G07 Cavendish,Headingley Campus, Leeds LS63QS, W Yorkshire, England; [Phibbs, Padraic J.; Jones, Ben; Roe, Gregory A. B.; Read, Dale B.; Darrall-Jones, Joshua; Weakley, Jonathon J. S.; Till, Kevin] Headingley Carnegie Stadium, Yorkshire Carnegie Rugby Club, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Phibbs, Padraic J.] Leeds Beckett Univ, Inst Sport Phys Act & Leisure, G07 Cavendish,Headingley Campus, Leeds LS63QS, W Yorkshire, England								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000399559000003	33	Article; Article		
J	Stambulova, Natalia B.; Pehrson, Sebastian; Olsson, Kasper								Phases in the junior-to-senior transition of Swedish ice hockey players: From a conceptual framework to an empirical model								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	2			231	244		10.1177/1747954117694928			APR 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to explore a temporal structure (i.e. sequence of phases and relevant psychological content) of the junior-to-senior transition in Swedish ice hockey players. The study was a qualitative exploration of the junior-to-senior transition process designed in three steps. First, the athletic career transition model coupled with a holistic developmental approach and analysis of the Swedish ice hockey context were used to create a conceptual four-phase (preparation, orientation, adaptation and stabilization) junior-to-senior transition framework and interview guides. Second, seven active semi-professional ice hockey players were interviewed about their junior-to-senior transition experiences and asked for their feedback on the conceptual framework. Finally, based on the empirical data and the participants' feedback, the conceptual framework was transformed into an empirical model of the junior-to-senior transition. In the empirical model Phases in the junior-to-senior transition of Swedish ice hockey players', the authors provided a summary of the players' transition experiences (i.e. perceived demands, resources, barriers, coping strategies and outcomes) within each of the four (i.e. the preparation, the orientation, the adaptation and the stabilization) junior-to-senior transition phases. Further, the authors discussed the empirical model in relation to theoretical frameworks and previous research and also provided methodology-, future research- and practice-oriented reflections addressed to researchers, coaches and sport psychology practitioners.		[Stambulova, Natalia B.; Pehrson, Sebastian; Olsson, Kasper] Halmstad Univ, Sch Hlth & Welf, Box 823, S-30118 Halmstad, Sweden; [Olsson, Kasper] Liverpool John Moore Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise Sci, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Stambulova, Natalia B.] Halmstad Univ, Sch Hlth & Welf, Box 823, S-30118 Halmstad, Sweden								43							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000399559000008	33	Article; Article		
J	Huxley, Dianne J.; O'Connor, Donna; Larkin, Paul								The pathway to the top: Key factors and influences in the development of Australian Olympic and World Championship Track and Field athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	2			264	275		10.1177/1747954117694738			APR 2017	2017	Given the many benefits of international sporting success, understanding the development and long-term sustainability of an elite sporting career has become an important pursuit worldwide. Despite decades of research little is known about the development of elite senior Australian Track and Field athletes, therefore this study aimed to understand the major influences contributing to their development and success. A Track and Field Athlete Development questionnaire was used to collect data from 73 Olympic and World Championship level athletes. Analysis indicated athletes progressed to the elite level via six different pathways; however, the majority follows a linear pathway from junior to elite senior athlete. Further, results demonstrated the key influencing factors during development included later specialization, involvement in other sports during adolescence and strong social support. In addition, growing up in a major city and completing a University degree were also common features. Overall the study provides an insight into the development and success of Australian Track and Field athletes who competed at the Olympic Games or World Championships between 1956 and 2013.		[Huxley, Dianne J.; O'Connor, Donna; Larkin, Paul] Univ Sydney, Sydney Sch Educ & Social Work, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Huxley, Dianne J.] Univ Sydney, Fac Educ & Social Work, 1 Balls Head Dr, Sydney, NSW 2060, Australia								38							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000399559000011	77	Article; Article		
J	Madden, Paul								Comment on Driskill and Vrooman: "It's Not over 'Til the Fat Lady Sings: Game-Theoretic Analysis of Sports Leagues"								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	3			271	281		10.1177/1527002515574516			APR 2017	2017	Driskill and Vrooman have recently provided an interesting argument for a Cournot-based approach to modeling duopsony sports leagues with perfectly inelastic talent supply (the usual assumption for major North American sports league), quite different from the suggestion made by this author (and others) that specifications where talent expenditures are strategic variables (rather than Cournot talent levels) are most appropriate for the context. This comment offers some clarifications and comparisons of the merits of the alternative approaches; they continue to point toward the talent expenditure approach as the most fruitful for the leagues under investigation and probably more generally.		[Madden, Paul] Univ Manchester, Sch Social Sci, Manchester M33 3GW, Lancs, England; [Madden, Paul] Univ Manchester, Sch Social Sci, Manchester M33 3GW, Lancs, England								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189600004	15	Article; Article		
J	Eckard, E. Woodrow								The Uncertainty-of-Outcome Hypothesis and the Industrial Organization of Sports Leagues: Evidence From US College Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	3			298	317		10.1177/1527002515576002			APR 2017	2017	The uncertainty-of-outcome hypothesis (UOH) posits that sports fans value competitive contests, implying that competitive imbalance within a league will motivate stronger teams to leave. Testable hypotheses can be formulated utilizing the many college football conference realignments over the last century. The results support the UOH. For example, schools leaving an existing conference to form a new major conference, or join a preexisting one, were on average stronger than their former associates in the years before their departure. Also, the number of seed conference championships won by departing schools generally exceeded their "fair share'' under an equal-likelihood assumption.		[Eckard, E. Woodrow] Univ Colorado, Sch Business, Econ, Denver, CO 80202 USA; [Eckard, E. Woodrow] Univ Colorado, Sch Business, Campus Box 165,POB 173364, Denver, CO 80217 USA								10							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189600006	13	Article; Article		
J	Keefer, Quinn A. W.								The Sunk-Cost Fallacy in the National Football League: Salary Cap Value and Playing Time								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	3			282	297		10.1177/1527002515574515			APR 2017	2017	The National Football League (NFL) draft is used to examine the presence of the sunk-cost fallacy in teams' playing time decisions. In the NFL, salary cap value represents a significant sunk cost to teams. We use the structure of the NFL draft to conduct a fuzzy regression discontinuity design. Optimal bandwidth local linear results suggest a 10% increase in salary cap value yields an additional 2.7 games started, for players selected near the cutoff between the first two rounds. Despite being no more productive, the first round selections receive a compensation premium, which leads to them starting significantly more games.		[Keefer, Quinn A. W.] Calif State Univ San Marcos, Dept Econ, 333 S Twin Oaks Valley Rd, San Marcos, CA 92096 USA; [Keefer, Quinn A. W.] Calif State Univ San Marcos, Dept Econ, 333 S Twin Oaks Valley Rd, San Marcos, CA 92096 USA								25							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189600005	26	Article; Article		
J	Chaouachi, Mehdi; Granacher, Urs; Makhlouf, Issam; Hammami, Raouf; Behm, David G.; Chaouachi, Anis								Within Session Sequence of Balance and Plyometric Exercises Does Not Affect Training Adaptations with Youth Soccer Athletes								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			125	136					MAR 2017	2017	The integration of balance and plyometric training has been shown to provide significant improvements in sprint, jump, agility, and other performance measures in young athletes. It is not known if a specific within session balance and plyometric exercise sequence provides more effective training adaptations. The objective of the present study was to investigate the effects of using a sequence of alternating pairs of exercises versus a block (series) of all balance exercises followed by a block of plyometric exercises on components of physical fitness such as muscle strength, power, speed, agility, and balance. Twenty-six male adolescent soccer players ( 13.9 +/- 0.3 years) participated in an 8-week training program that either alternated individual balance (e. g., exercises on unstable surfaces) and plyometric (e. g., jumps, hops, rebounds) exercises or performed a block of balance exercises prior to a block of plyometric exercises within each training session. Pre- and post-training measures included proxies of strength, power, agility, sprint, and balance such as countermovement jumps, isometric back and knee extension strength, standing long jump, 10 and 30-m sprints, agility, standing stork, and Y-balance tests. Both groups exhibited significant, generally large magnitude (effect sizes) training improvements for all measures with mean performance increases of approximately > 30%. There were no significant differences between the training groups over time. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of combining balance and plyometric exercises within a training session on components of physical fitness with young adolescents. The improved performance outcomes were not significantly influenced by the within session exercise sequence.		[Chaouachi, Mehdi; Makhlouf, Issam; Hammami, Raouf; Chaouachi, Anis] Natl Ctr Med & Sci Sports CNMSS, Tunisian Res Lab Sport Performance Optimisat, Tunis, Tunisia; [Chaouachi, Anis] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Granacher, Urs] Univ Potsdam, Div Training & Movement Sci, Res Focus Cognit Sci, Potsdam, Germany; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada; [Behm, David G.] Mem Univ Newfoundland, Sch Human Kinet & Recreat, St John, NF A1C 5S7, Canada								38							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900018	46	Article; Article		
J	Delecroix, Barthelemy; Abaidia, Abd Elbasset; Leduc, Cedric; Dawson, Brian; Dupont, Gregory								Curcumin and Piperine Supplementation and Recovery Following Exercise Induced Muscle Damage: A Randomized Controlled Trial								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			147	153					MAR 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to analyze the effects of oral consumption of curcumin and piperine in combination on the recovery kinetics after exercise-induced muscle damage. Forty-eight hours before and following exercise-induced muscle damage, ten elite rugby players consumed curcumin and piperine (experimental condition) or placebo. A randomized cross-over design was performed. Concentric and isometric peak torque for the knee extensors, one leg 6 seconds sprint performance on a non-motorized treadmill, counter movement jump performance, blood creatine kinase concentration and muscle soreness were assessed immediately after exercise, then at 24h, 48h and 72h post-exercise. There were moderate to large effects of the exercise on the concentric peak torque for the knee extensors (Effect size (ES) = -1.12; Confidence interval at 90% (CI90%): -2.17 to -0.06), the one leg 6 seconds sprint performance (ES=-1.65; CI90% = -2.51to -0.80) and the counter movement jump performance (ES = -0.56; CI90% = -0.81 to -0.32) in the 48h following the exercise. There was also a large effect of the exercise on the creatine kinase level 72h after the exercise in the control group (ES = 3.61; CI90%: 0.24 to 6.98). This decrease in muscle function and this elevation in creatine kinase indicate that the exercise implemented was efficient to induce muscle damage. Twenty four hours post-exercise, the reduction (from baseline) in sprint mean power output was moderately lower in the experimental condition (-1.77 +/- 7.25%; 1277 +/- 153W) in comparison with the placebo condition (-13.6 +/- 13.0%; 1130 +/- 241W) (Effect Size = -1.12; Confidence Interval 90%=-1.86 to -0.86). However, no other effect was found between the two conditions. Curcumin and piperine supplementation before and after exercise can attenuate some, but not all, aspects of muscle damage.		[Delecroix, Barthelemy; Abaidia, Abd Elbasset; Dupont, Gregory] Univ Lille, EA URePSSS Unite Rech Pluridisciplinaires Sport S, Lille, France; [Delecroix, Barthelemy; Abaidia, Abd Elbasset; Dupont, Gregory] LOSC, Res Dept, Lille, France; [Leduc, Cedric] FFR, Marcoussis, France; [Dawson, Brian; Dupont, Gregory] Univ Western Australia, Sch Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth, Perth, WA, Australia; [Dupont, Gregory] LOSC, Res Dept, Lille, France								64							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900020	31	Article; Article		
J	Standing, Regan J.; Maulder, Peter S.								The Biomechanics of Standing Start and Initial Acceleration: Reliability of the Key Determining Kinematics								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			154	162					MAR 2017	2017	The reliability of the key determining kinematic variables associated with short sprint performance provide insight into how and why movement may vary between individual trials. Currently, literature surrounding these determinants is scarce when investigating the first three strides of a sprint. The purpose of this study was to investigate the reliability of sprint acceleration and the key kinematic determinants involved during the first three steps of the movement. The aim was to use a practical method of kinematic analysis to help explain why changes may occur in sprint performance via the use of correlative statistics and to provide reference values for intervention research to make conclusions about their change scores. Ten male volunteers from various team sports attended two separate testing sessions, a minimum of 48 hours apart. They performed three maximal sprint trials over a 10m distance from a standing start, where researchers captured 5m and 10m sprint times alongside high speed camera footage, from which the key kinematic variables were measured. Results demonstrated that although 5m and 10m sprint times depicted moderate to large levels of similarity between sessions, neither of these variables met the criteria to be classified as adequately, or highly reliable. Kinematic measures typically produced ICC values > 0.70 and CV% < 10%, demonstrating all relevant statistical traits to be categorised as reliable measures. Step frequency and flight time during the third step showed the largest correlation with performance, exhibiting ` r' values of - 0.386 and 0.396, respectively. These findings demonstrate that kinematic variables may not have an influential role with sprint times; therefore suggesting kinetic concepts may in fact be the key determinants of speed. Future research is required investigating the interaction of kinetic and kinematic variables associated with sprinting and how the variability in these concepts effects the reliability of performance.		[Standing, Regan J.; Maulder, Peter S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand; [Maulder, Peter S.] Waikato Inst Technol, Ctr Sport Sci & Human Performance, Hamilton, New Zealand								21							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900021	58	Article; Article		
J	Gordon, Dan; Gernigon, Marie; Baker, James; Merzbach, Viviane; Scruton, Adrian								The Effects of Non-Contingent Feedback on the Incidence of Plateau at VO<sub>2max</sub>								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			105	111					MAR 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of noncontingent feedback in the form of heart rate (HR) on the incidence of plateau at VO2max. Ten physically active males (age 24.8 yrs +/- 4.2; mass 81.4 +/- 9.0 kg; stature 1.80 +/- 0.11 m, VO2max 53.2 +/- 5.8 ml. kg(-1). min(-1)) who were VO2max testing naive but were cognisant as to the heart rate responses to exercise completed four incremental tests to volitional exhaustion, separated by similar to 72 h for the determination of VO2max and gas exchange threshold. The first trial served as a familiarisation with the remaining three being experimental conditions where HR was presented in a screen projection as either the actual response (HR-A) or 10 b. min(-1) higher than recorded (HR-H) or 10 b(.)min(-1) lower (HR-L). Throughout all trials VO2 was recorded on a breath-by-breath basis with plateau criteria of <= 50 ml(.)min(-1). RESULTS: A significant difference was observed for Delta VO2 over the final two consecutive 30s sampling periods between HR-A, both HR-L and HR-H (p = 0.049) and for the incidence of plateau response between condition (p = 0.021). An additional significant difference was observed for sub-maximal VO2 responses between HR-A and HR-H (p = 0.049) and HR-A and HR-L (p = 0.006). Non-significant differences were observed for all other criteria. These data indicate that when presented with non-contingent feedback in the form of HR, that the perceptually orientated pacing schema becomes disrupted promoting a sparing of the finite anaerobic capacity to compensate for the imbalance between the afferent signal and perception of effort.		[Gordon, Dan; Baker, James; Merzbach, Viviane; Scruton, Adrian] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Cambridge, England; [Gernigon, Marie] Univ Montpellier, Fac Sport, Montpellier, France; [Gordon, Dan] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge Ctr Sport & Exercise Sci, Cambridge, England; [Gordon, Dan] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Exercise Physiol, Cambridge, England								2							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900015	31	Article; Article		
J	Vosoberg, Kristel; Tillmann, Vallo; Tamm, Anna-Liisa; Maasalu, Katre; Jurimae, Jaak								Bone Mineralization in Rhythmic Gymnasts Entering Puberty: Associations with Jumping Performance and Body Composition Variables								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			99	104					MAR 2017	2017	This study examined bone mineral density (BMD) accrual in prepubertal rhythmic gymnasts entering puberty and their agematched untrained control girls, and associations with baseline jumping performance and body composition over the 3-year period. Whole body (WB) and femoral neck (FN) BMD, WB fat mass (FM) and fat free mass (FFM), countermovement jump (CMJ) and rebound jumps for 15 s (RJ15s) were assessed in 25 rhythmic gymnasts and 25 untrained controls at baseline and after 3-year period. The changes over this period were calculated (Delta scores). Pubertal maturation over the 3-year period was slower in rhythmic gymnasts compared to untrained controls, while no difference in bone age development was seen. WB BMD increased similarly in both groups, while the increase in FN BMD was higher in rhythmic gymnasts compared with untrained controls. In rhythmic gymnasts, baseline FFM was the most significant predictor of Delta WB BMD explaining 19.2% of the variability, while baseline RJ15s was the most significant predictor of Delta FN BMD explaining 18.5% of the variability. In untrained controls, baseline FM explained 51.8 and 18.9% of the variability in Delta WB BMD and Delta FN BMD, respectively. In conclusion, mechanical loading of high-intensity athletic activity had beneficial effect on BMD accrual in rhythmic gymnasts and may have counterbalanced such negative factors on bone development as slower pubertal maturation and lower body FM. Baseline FFM and repeated jumps test performance were related to BMD accrual in rhythmic gymnasts, while baseline FM was related to BMD accrual in untrained controls.		[Vosoberg, Kristel; Jurimae, Jaak] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Inst Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, 18 Ulikooli St, EE-50090 Tartu, Estonia; [Tillmann, Vallo; Maasalu, Katre] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Inst Clin Med, Tartu, Estonia; [Tamm, Anna-Liisa] Tartu Hlth Care Coll, Tartu, Estonia; [Jurimae, Jaak] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Inst Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, 18 Ulikooli St, EE-50090 Tartu, Estonia								12							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900014	21	Article; Article		
J	Kramer, Tamara; Huijgen, Barbara C. H.; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.; Visscher, Chris								Prediction of Tennis Performance in Junior Elite Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			14	21					MAR 2017	2017	Predicting current and future tennis performance can lead to improving the development of junior tennis players. The aim of this study is to investigate whether age, maturation, or physical fitness in junior elite tennis players in U13 can explain current and future tennis performance. The value of current tennis performance for future tennis performance is also investigated. A total of 86 junior elite tennis players (boys, n = 44; girls, n = 42) U13 (aged: 12.5 +/- 0.3 years), and followed to U16, took part in this study. All players were top-30 ranked on the Dutch national ranking list at U13, and top-50 at U16. Age, maturation, and physical fitness, were measured at U13. A principal component analysis was used to extract four physical components from eight tests (medicine ball throwing overhead and reverse, ball throwing, SJ, CMJas, Sprint 5 and 10 meter, and the spider test). The possible relationship of age, maturation, and the physical components; "upper body power", "lower body power", "speed", and "agility" with tennis performance at U13 and U16 was analyzed. Tennis performance was measured by using the ranking position on the Dutch national ranking list at U13 and U16. Regression analyses were conducted based on correlations between variables and tennis performance for boys and girls, separately. In boys U13, positive correlations were found between upper body power and tennis performance (R-2 is 25%). In girls, positive correlations between maturation and lower body power with tennis performance were found at U13. Early maturing players were associated with a better tennis performance (R-2 is 15%). In girls U16, only maturation correlated with tennis performance (R-2 is 13%); later-maturing girls at U13 had better tennis performances at U16. Measuring junior elite tennis players at U13 is important for monitoring their development. These measurements did not predict future tennis performance of junior elite tennis players three years later. Future research should focus on other aspects in order to predict tennis performance better.		[Kramer, Tamara] HAN Univ Appl Sci, HAN Sports & Exercise, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Kramer, Tamara; Huijgen, Barbara C. H.; Elferink-Gemser, Marije T.; Visscher, Chris] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands; [Kramer, Tamara] HAN Univ Appl Sci, HAN Sports & Exercise, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Kramer, Tamara] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Groningen, Netherlands								46							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900003	37	Article; Article		
J	Philippe, Marc; Gatterer, Hannes; Eder, Erika Maria; Dzien, Alexander; Somavilla, Matthias; Melmer, Andreas; Ebenbichler, Christoph; Mueller, Tom; Burtscher, Martin								The Effects of 3 Weeks of Uphill and Downhill Walking on Blood Lipids and Glucose Metabolism in Pre-Diabetic Men: A Pilot Study								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			35	43					MAR 2017	2017	The prevention of type 2 diabetes in persons at risk for diabetes is of utmost importance. Physical activity in general and even exercises at moderate intensities such as walking significantly reduce the risk of the development of type 2 diabetes. However, it is still a matter of debate whether lipids and glucose metabolism are differently affected by regular concentric (e.g., uphill walking) and eccentric (e.g., downhill walking) endurance exercise. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of short-term (3 weeks) uphill and downhill walking on glucose metabolism and blood lipids in pre-diabetic middle-aged men in a real world setting. The study was designed as an investigator-initiated 2 group random selection pre-test post-test trial. Sixteen pre-diabetic men (age: 56.9 +/- 5.1 years; BMI: 28.1 +/- 2.3 kg center dot m(-2)) performed 9 uphill (n = 8) or 9 downhill (n = 8) walking sessions within 3 weeks. The primary outcomes were the markers of glucose metabolism and blood lipids measured before and after the training period. After uphill walking glucose tolerance (area under the curve of the oral glucose tolerance test: -43.25 +/- 53.12 mg center dot dl(-1); p = 0.05; effect size: 0.81), triglycerides (-48.75 +/- 54.49 mg center dot dl(-1); p = 0.036; effect size: 0.89), HDL-C (+7.86 +/- 9.54 mg center dot dl(-1); p = 0.05; effect size: 0.82) and total cholesterol/HDL-C ratio (-0.58 +/- 0.41; p = 0.012; effect size: 1.39) had significantly improved. No significant metabolic adaptations were found after downhill walking. However, when adjusted for estimated energy expenditure, uphill and downhill walking had equal effects on almost all metabolic parameters. Moreover, the magnitude of the baseline impairments of glucose tolerance was significantly related to the extent of change in both groups. Depending on the fitness level and individual preferences both types of exercise may be useful for the prevention of type 2 diabetes and disorders in lipid metabolism.		[Philippe, Marc] Justus Liebig Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Med, Kugelberg 62, D-35394 Giessen, Germany; [Philippe, Marc; Gatterer, Hannes; Eder, Erika Maria; Burtscher, Martin] Univ Innsbruck, Med Sect, Dept Sport Sci, Innsbruck, Austria; [Melmer, Andreas; Ebenbichler, Christoph] Med Univ Innsbruck, Dept Internal Med 1, Innsbruck, Austria; [Dzien, Alexander] Med Ctr Hentschelhof, Internal Med, Innsbruck, Austria; [Somavilla, Matthias] Praxisgemeinschaft Dr Somavilla, Gen Med, Fulpmes, Austria; [Mueller, Tom] Kueser Akad Europaische Geistesgeschichte, Bernkastel Kues, Germany; [Philippe, Marc] Justus Liebig Univ, Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Med, Kugelberg 62, D-35394 Giessen, Germany								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900006	42	Article; Article		
J	Walters, Peter; Thom, Nathaniel; Libby, Kai; Edgren, Shelby; Azadian, Amanda; Tannous, Daniel; Sorenson, Elisabeth; Hunt, Brian								The Effect of Intermittent Head Cooling on Aerobic Performance in the Heat								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			77	83					MAR 2017	2017	Thermoregulation is critical for athletes, particularly those for those who must perform in the heat. Most strategies aimed at reducing heat stress have cooled participants before or during activity. The objective of this study is to investigate whether seven minutes of head cooling applied between bouts of aerobic exercise in hot (35 +/- 1.0 degrees C) and dry (14.68 +/- 4.29% rh) environmental conditions could positively effect participants peak power output (PP) on a maximal effort graded exercise test (GXT). Twenty-two recreational active men ages 18 to 23 (19.8 +/- 1.6 yrs.) completed three performance trials over a 21 day period. During the first trial, participants were familiarized with procedures and completed a maximal effort GXT on a cycle ergometer to establish maximal baseline performances. The second and third trials, which were counterbalanced, consisted of a cooling and placebo condition. During both of these trials, participants cycled 40 minutes at 65% of their maximum VO2, in hot (35 +/- 1.0 degrees C) and dry (17-20% rh) environmental conditions. Immediately after this initial bout of activity, participants were given seven minutes of recovery in which head cooling was applied during the cooling condition and withheld during the placebo condition. Participants then completed a maximal effort GXT. Significant differences (p < 0.001) in participants peak power output (W) were measured when cooling was applied compared to the placebo condition (304.23(W) +/- 26.19(W) cooling, 291.68(W) +/- 26.04(W) placebo). These results suggest that a relatively brief period of intermittent cooling may enhance subsequent aerobic performance.		[Walters, Peter; Thom, Nathaniel; Libby, Kai; Edgren, Shelby; Azadian, Amanda; Tannous, Daniel; Sorenson, Elisabeth; Hunt, Brian] Wheaton Coll, Dept Appl Hlth Sci, Exercise Physiol Lab, Wheaton, IL 60187 USA; [Walters, Peter] Wheaton Coll, Dept Appl Hlth Sci, 501 Coll Ave, Wheaton, IL 60187 USA								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900011	34	Article; Article		
J	Langley, Jason G.; Chetlin, Robert D.								Test Re-Test Reliability of Four Versions of the 3-Cone Test in Non-Athletic Men								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			44	52					MAR 2017	2017	Until recently, measurement and evaluation in sport science, especially agility testing, has not always included key elements of proper test construction. Often tests are published without reporting reliability and validity analysis for a specific population. The purpose of the present study was to examine the test re-test reliability of four versions of the 3-Cone Test (3CT), and provide guidance on proper test construction for testing agility in athletic populations. Forty male students enrolled in classes in the Department of Physical Education at a mid-Atlantic university participated. On each of test day participants performed 10 trials. In random order, they performed three trials to the right (3CTR, standard test), three to the left (3CTL), and two modified trials (3CTAR and 3CTAL), which included a reactive component in which a visual cue was given to indicate direction. Intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) indicated a moderate to high reliability for the four tests, 3CTR 0.79 (0.64-0.88, 95%CI), 3CTL 0.73 (0.55-0.85), 3CTAR 0.85(0.74-0.92), and 3CTAL 0.79 (0.64-0.88). Small standard error of the measurement (SEM) was found; range 0.09 to 0.10. Pearson correlations between tests were high (0.82-0.92) on day one as well as day two (0.72-0.85). These results indicate each version of the 3-Cone Test is reliable; however, further tests are needed with specific athletic populations. Only the 3CTAR and 3CTAL are tests of agility due to the inclusion of a reactive component. Future studies examining agility testing and training should incorporate technological elements, including automated timing systems and motion capture analysis. Such instrumentation will allow for optimal design of tests that simulate sport-specific game conditions.		[Langley, Jason G.] Univ Southern Indiana, Dept Kinesiol & Sport, Evansville, IN USA; Mercyhurst Univ, Dept Sports Med, Erie, PA USA; [Langley, Jason G.] Univ Southern Indiana, Human Performance Lab, Evansville, IN USA								7							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900007	49	Article; Article		
J	Park, Gi-Young; Kwon, Dong Rak; Cho, Hee Kyung; Park, Jinyoung; Park, Jung Hyun								Distribution of Platelet-rich Plasma after Ultrasound-Guided Injection for Chronic Elbow Tendinopathies								JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE				16	1			1	5					MAR 2017	2017	Characteristics of the spreads of platelet-rich plasma (PRP) are not widely known despite commonly use. This study aims to evaluate whether PRP stays within the injected area by using ultrasonography, to improve understanding of the spreads of intratendinous injected PRP. Thirty-nine patients (15 males, 24 females; mean age, 49.3 years), who had symptoms on their elbows (> 6 months) and diagnosed as lateral (25 elbows) or medial (14 elbows) tendinopathies of elbow, were included. The severity of tendon pathology was assessed by ultrasonography as tear or no tear. Immediately after ultrasound-guided PRP injection, ultrasound images were evaluated to assess the area of PRP distribution, which was defined as the presence of fluid or microbubbles. Ultrasound revealed that 13 elbows had tendon tear and 26 had no tear, respectively. Post-injection ultrasound confirmed the injected PRP was within the tendon in all cases. The mean distance of distribution from the injection site was 12.6 mm (5.0-26.0 mm). There was no difference in the distance of PRP distribution between tendon tear and no tear. Injected PRP spread to soft tissue outside the tendon in 20 of 39 cases. Intra-articular extension of PRP was observed in 5 cases. Although PRP remained intratendinous after the injection in all cases, some portion tended to spread outside from the injection site in a short space of time. Postinjection ultrasonographic imaging has a value for observing the spreading patterns of intratendinous PRP injection.		[Park, Gi-Young; Kwon, Dong Rak; Cho, Hee Kyung] Catholic Univ Daegu, Sch Med, Dept Rehabil Med, Daegu, South Korea; [Park, Jinyoung; Park, Jung Hyun] Yonsei Univ, Coll Med, Rehabil Inst Neuromuscular Dis, Dept Rehabil Med,Gangnam Severance Hosp, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Jung Hyun] Yonsei Univ, Gangnam Severance Hosp, Dept Rehabil Med, 211 Eonjuro, Seoul 06219, South Korea								10							Sport Sciences	WOS:000395910900001	22	Article; Article		
J	Baklouti, Hana; Rejeb, Noureddine; Aloui, Asma; Jaafar, Hamdi; Ammar, Achraf; Chtourou, Hamdi; Girard, Olivier; Souissi, Nizar								Short versus long small-sided game training during Ramadan in soccer players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				24				20	25		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.10.002			MAR 2017	2017	Objective: To compare the effects of two small-sided game (SSG) training formats (4 x 4 min (SSG-S) and 2 x 8 min (SSG-L)) conducted during Ramadan on Hoff and five jump (5JT) tests' performances and session rating of perceived exertion (sRPE). Design: Three group, case-control. Setting: Field tests. Participants: Twenty-four male soccer players were divided into 3 groups: 2 groups undertaking 4 weeks of SSG-S (n = 8) or SSG-L (n = 8) during Ramadan and a control group (n = 8). Main outcome measures: The Profile of Mood States (POMS) and Hooper questionnaires' scores and 5JT and Hoff test's performances were measured before (BR) and at the end of Ramadan (R4). Results: Compared to BR, fatigue estimated by POMS and Hooper questionnaires was higher at R4 in all groups (ES = 0.77-1.57, p < 0.05). Hoff test distance increased to the same extent in SSG-S and SSG-L groups (+738-7.39%, ES = 1.49-1.93, p < 0.001). Mean sRPE scores measured during Ramadan were higher after SSG-L (6.49 +/- 0.38) than SSG-S (5.61 +/- 0.14) sessions (+15.58%, ES = 2.79, p < 0.001). Conclusions: SSG training can be implemented as an efficient intervention to avoid detraining and equally improve soccer-specific physical performance during Ramadan. Given the lower perceptual responses associated with shorter SSG sequences, this modality would be better tolerated during the fasting month, and therefore is recommended. 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Baklouti, Hana; Rejeb, Noureddine] Univ Carthage, Fac Sci Bizerte, Bizerte, Tunisia; [Aloui, Asma] Univ Gafsa, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Gafsa, Tunisia; [Jaafar, Hamdi] Univ Paris Ouest Nanterre La Def, UFR STAPS, Equipe Physiol Biomecan & Imagerie Mouvement, Lab CeRSM EA 2931, Nanterre, France; [Ammar, Achraf; Chtourou, Hamdi] Univ Sfax, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Sfax, Tunisia; [Girard, Olivier] Univ Lausanne, Inst Sport Sci, ISSUL, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; [Girard, Olivier] Aspetar Orthoped & Sports Med Hosp, Athlete Hlth & Performance Res Ctr, Doha, Qatar; [Souissi, Nizar] Natl Observ Sport, Tunis, Tunisia; [Aloui, Asma] Univ Gafsa, High Inst Sport & Phys Educ, Gafsa, Tunisia								24							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000397833400004	46	Article; Article		
J	Rosen, Adam B.; Ko, Jupil; Simpson, Kathy J.; Brown, Cathleen N.								Patellar tendon straps decrease pre-landing quadriceps activation in males with patellar tendinopathy								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				24				13	19		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.09.007			MAR 2017	2017	Objective: To determine if patellar tendon straps altered quadriceps' muscle activity during a drop jump landing in males with and without patellar tendinopathy. Design: Case-control. Settings: Biomechanics Research Laboratory. Participants: Twenty recreationally-active males participated: ten (age = 21.3 +/- 2.4 years, height = 182.8 +/- 5.3 cm, mass = 81.7 +/- 8.6 kg) with patellar tendinopathy; ten (age = 22.0 +/- 1.6 years, height = 185.7 +/- 4.5 cm, mass = 82.2 +/- 9.8 kg) were healthy with no history of tendinopathy. Main outcome measures: Electromyography (EMG) data for the vastus medialis (VM), rectus femoris (RF), and vastus lateralis (VL) muscles were collected. Five 2-legged 40 cm drop jumps were performed wearing a patellar tendon strap and 5 with no-strap in a counterbalanced order. Root-mean square EMG (REMG) values of the VM, RF, and VL were averaged for a pre-landing and post landing interval. Multiple mixed-model two-way ANOVAs were performed to determine the effect of tendinopathy and strapping condition on REMG values for each muscle. Results: For the pre-landing interval, all participants displayed lesser VL EMG activation (0.44 +/- 0.19%, 0.53 +/- 0.27%, respectively; p = 0.007, d = 0.39) in the no-strap compared with the strap condition. Conclusions: When wearing a strap, all participants demonstrated lower VL activation prior to landing which may be helpful in reducing tensile stress at the tendon. These effects may be clinically important in modulating pain in those with patellar tendinopathy. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rosen, Adam B.] Univ Nebraska, Sch Hlth Phys Educ & Recreat, 6001 Dodge St, Omaha, NE 68182 USA; [Ko, Jupil] No Arizona Univ, Dept Phys Therapy & Athlet Training, 435 N 5th St, Phoenix, AZ 85004 USA; [Simpson, Kathy J.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Biomech Lab, 330 River Rd, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Brown, Cathleen N.] Oregon State Univ, Dept Athlet Training & Kinesiol, Langton Hall 220, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Rosen, Adam B.] Univ Nebraska, 6001 Dodge St,HPER Bldg,HPER207Y, Omaha, NE 68182 USA								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000397833400003	41	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Kyung-Min; Davis, Brandon; Hertel, Jay; Hart, Joseph								Effects of Kinesio taping in patients with quadriceps inhibition: A randomized, single-blinded study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				24				67	73		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.08.015			MAR 2017	2017	Objective: To determine effects of Kinesio taping (KT) on quadriceps activation and maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) in patients with quadriceps inhibition. Design: Randomized, single-blinded. Setting: Laboratory. Patients: Sixteen participants (9 males, 7 females) with quadriceps inhibition, as determined by 90% or lower in central activation ratio (CAR), participated. Main outcome measures: Hoffmann reflex (H-reflex) of the vastus medialis and quadriceps CAR and MVIC were measured before taping, and participants were randomly allocated to either KT (KT application with tension) or sham (non-elastic tape application without tension) group. H-reflexes were assessed immediately and 20 min after tape was applied over the rectus femoris. All outcomes were measured again after tape was removed when participants returned the laboratory 24-48 h after taping. Results: Two-way repeated ANOVA found no group-by-time interaction for: H-reflex (F-3,F-42 = 1.94, P = 0.14), CAR (F-1,F-14 = 0.03, P = 0.86), or MVIC (F-1,F-14 = 0.007, P = 0.93). None of the outcome measures differed between groups or over time (P > 0.05). Conclusions: KT applied to the rectus femoris did not change H-reflex of the vastus medialis and quadriceps CAR and MVIC in patients with quadriceps inhibition. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kim, Kyung-Min] Univ Miami, 1507 Levante Ave, Miami, FL 33146 USA; [Davis, Brandon] Hampden Sydney Coll, 80 Coll Rd, Hampden Sydney, VA 23943 USA; [Hertel, Jay; Hart, Joseph] Univ Virginia, 210 Emmet St South,POB 400407, Charlottesville, VA 22904 USA; [Kim, Kyung-Min] Univ Miami, Dept Kinesiol & Sport Sci, 1507 Levante Ave,Max Orovitz 128, Miami, FL 33146 USA								17							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000397833400011	41	Article; Article		
J	Chieregato Matheus, Joao Paulo; Zille, Rafael Ribeiro; Gomide Matheus, Liana Barbaresco; Lemos, Thiago Vilela; Carregaro, Rodrigo Luiz; Shimano, Antonio Carlos								Comparison of the mechanical properties of therapeutic elastic tapes used in sports and clinical practice								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				24				74	78		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.08.014			MAR 2017	2017	Study design: Cross-sectional laboratory study. Objective: The aim of the present study was to evaluate and compare the mechanical properties of different therapeutic elastic tapes used in sports and clinical practice. Background: Therapeutic tapes have been used since around the 1800s. They are composed of cotton, elastic filaments and adhesive glue that provides an effect of tactile and mechanical stimulation. However, as taping has evolved, manufacturers have implemented new materials and claim that the tensile properties and adhesion of tapes contribute more significantly in the rehabilitation process. Methods: Fifty samples of elastic tapes (5 different manufacturers; 10 samples from each manufacturer) were submitted to longitudinal traction until rupture as well as surface adherence assays. Information was recorded on maximum deformation, maximum load, maximum tension and relative stiffness. Results: In tensile testing the bandages brand Kinesio Tex Gold - FP (R) showed higher rates, 3 in 4 properties. During surface adherence tests on the therapeutic elastic tapes the brand Premium Kinesiology 3 NS Tex (R) showed higher rates, 3 in 4 properties analyzed. Conclusions: Tapes from different manufacturers exhibit different characteristics regarding traction and adherence mechanics. Knowledge of these characteristics is fundamental for the optimized use of each tape based on specific therapeutic needs. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Chieregato Matheus, Joao Paulo; Zille, Rafael Ribeiro; Gomide Matheus, Liana Barbaresco; Carregaro, Rodrigo Luiz] Univ Brasilia UnB, Sch Phys Therapy, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Chieregato Matheus, Joao Paulo; Lemos, Thiago Vilela] Univ Brasilia UnB, Sci & Technol Hlth PhD Program, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Shimano, Antonio Carlos] Univ Sao Paulo Ribeirao Preto USP, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Chieregato Matheus, Joao Paulo] Univ Brasilia, Fac Ceilandia UED, Ctr Metropolitano Conjunto A Lote 01, BR-72220900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000397833400012	12	Article; Article		
J	Olmedilla-Zafra, Aurelio; Rubio, Victor J.; Ortega, Enrique; Garcia-Mas, Alexandre								Effectiveness of a stress management pilot program aimed at reducing the incidence of sports injuries in young football (soccer) players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				24				53	59		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.09.003			MAR 2017	2017	Objectives: Several attempts to reduce the incidence of sport injuries using psychosocial interventions produced fruitful, although inconclusive results. This paper presents the effectiveness and implementation issues of a pilot 3-month stress-management and muscle relaxation program aimed at reducing sport injury incidence. Design: Pre-post treatment-non treatment group comparison. Program administration: The program was administered by a trained psychologist on a once-a-week, 1-h session basis. Participants: Seventy-four male soccer players from four National Youth league teams voluntarily participated. Teams were randomly assigned to either treatment/non-treatment group. Measures: Injury protocol, Self-monitoring cards, Athletes' satisfaction and commitment survey, Coaches' interview. Results: Group main effect and Time-Group interaction effect were both statistically significant, F(1,60) = 830, p = 0.005, eta(2)(p) = 0.121, with the average number of injuries larger in the post-treatment phase of non-treatment group (p = 0.005, eta(2)(p) = 0.077). There was a significant decrease in the average number of injuries for the intervention group before and after implementing the program (p < 0.001, eta(2)(p) = 0309). Conclusions: A controlled implementation of a psychosocial program was effective in reducing youth soccer sport injuries, with a high level of satisfaction and commitment from the athletes, as well as high acceptance from the coaches. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Olmedilla-Zafra, Aurelio] Univ Murcia, Dept Personal Assessment & Psychol Intervent, Campus Univ Espinardo, E-30100 Murcia, Spain; [Rubio, Victor J.] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Biol & Hlth Psychol, Campus Cantoblanco, E-28049 Madrid, Spain; [Ortega, Enrique] Univ Murcia, Dept Phys Activ & Sport, Campus San Javier, San Javier 30720, Spain; [Garcia-Mas, Alexandre] Univ Balearic Isl, Dept Basic Psychol, Crta Vaildemossa,Km 7-5, Palma De Mallorca 07122, Spain; [Rubio, Victor J.] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Dept Biol & Hlth Psychol, Campus Cantoblanco, E-28049 Madrid, Spain								38							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000397833400009	50	Article; Article		
J	Jenkins, Walter L.; Williams, D. S. Blaise, III; Williams, Kelsey; Hefner, Josh; Welch, Hannah								Sex differences in total frontal plane knee movement and velocity during a functional single-leg landing								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				24				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.09.005			MAR 2017	2017	Objectives: Females land with more knee valgus than males. While most studies have evaluated lower extremity mechanics during double leg landing, most sports require single-leg landing from a double or single leg takeoff. Further, knee movement occurs toward both varus and valgus during functional landing. The purpose of this study was to determine if differences exist between females and males in total frontal plane movement and velocity of the knee during single-leg landing. Design: Experimental cohort. Setting: Motion analysis laboratory. Participants: Forty healthy, physically-active females (n = 20) and males (n = 20). Main outcome measures: Three-dimensional motion analysis was completed on the lower extremities during double-leg jumping followed by a single-leg landing. Student's t-tests (p < 0.05) were used to determine if differences exist in frontal plane knee angles (valgus and varus excursion) and angular velocities between females and males. Results: Females demonstrated greater knee valgus and varus excursion, and valgus and varus velocities compared to males (p < 0.05). Conclusions: These findings suggest that total movement in the frontal plane at the knee may be an important factor in injury mechanics in females. Further, single-leg landing from a functional jump should be considered when comparing landing biomechanics between females and males. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Jenkins, Walter L.] East Carolina Univ, Coll Allied Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, Greenville, NC 27834 USA; [Williams, D. S. Blaise, III] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, VCU RUN LAB, Richmond, VA 23298 USA; [Williams, Kelsey] Nova Med Ctr, 1900 Oates Dr,Suite 100, Mesquite, TX 75150 USA; [Hefner, Josh] Kinet Phys Therapy & Wellness, 1350-A East Arlington Blvd, Greenville, NC 27858 USA; [Welch, Hannah] Duke Univ Hlth Syst, Lenox Baker Childrens Hosp, 3000 Erwin Rd, Durham, NC 27705 USA; [Williams, D. S. Blaise, III] Virginia Commonwealth Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, Dept Phys Therapy, VCU RUN LAB, Richmond, VA 23298 USA								21							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000397833400001	38	Article; Article		
J	Zhou, Jun; Liao, Yuan; Xie, Haitao; Liao, Ying; Liu, Huifang; Zeng, Yahua; Li, Neng								Pulsed electromagnetic field ameliorates cartilage degeneration by inhibiting mitogen-activated protein kinases in a rat model of osteoarthritis								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				24				32	38		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.10.003			MAR 2017	2017	Objectives: We assessed the effects of pulsed electromagnetic field (PEMF) on cartilage degeneration, and expression of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), in an experimental rat model of osteoarthritis induced by anterior cruciate ligament transection (ACLT). Design: Experimental. Setting: University animal laboratory. Participants: 30 male Sprague Dawley rats. Main Outcome Measures: We performed histological examination, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, to assess cartilage degeneration, urine C-terminal cross-linking telopeptide of type II collagen (CTX-II), and mRNA expression of extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (c-Jun), p38, and MMPs. Results: Urinary CTX-11 in the PEMF group was significantly lower than in the ACLT group at 9 and 13 weeks. Mankin scores in the PEMF group significantly lower than that in the ACLT group (P < 0.01). mRNA expression of ERK1, c-Jun, p38, MMP-13 and MMP-3 was significantly higher in the ACLT group than in the Sham group, while that with the sole exception of MMP-3 in the PEMF group was significantly lower than in the ACLT group. Conclusions: PEMF may regulate the catabolic factor, MMP13, and inhibit cartilage destruction, at least partially, by inhibiting MAPKs signaling pathway. 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Zhou, Jun; Liao, Yuan; Xie, Haitao; Liao, Ying; Zeng, Yahua; Li, Neng] Univ South China, Dept Rehabil, Affiliated Hosp 1, Hengyang, Hunan, Peoples R China; [Liao, Yuan] Guangzhou Univ Chinese Med, Clin Med Coll Acupuncture Moxibust & Rehabil, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Liu, Huifang] Sichuan Univ, West China Hosp, Dept Rehabil, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Jun] Univ South China, Dept Rehabil, Affiliated Hosp 1, Hengyang, Hunan, Peoples R China								24							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000397833400006	57	Article; Article		
J	Detanico, Daniele; Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre; da Silva Athayde, Marina Saldanha; Kons, Rafael Lima; Goes, Angel								Effect of a Brazilian Jiu-jitsu-simulated tournament on strength parameters and perceptual responses								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	1			115	126		10.1080/14763141.2016.1206143			MAR 2017	2017	This study aimed to analyse the effects of a simulated Brazilian jiu-jitsu (BJJ) tournament on vertical jump performance, grip strength test and perceived effort responses. 22 male BJJ athletes participated in a simulated tournament consisting of three 7min matches separated by 14min of rest. Kimono grip strength test (KGST), counter movement jump (CMJ) and rate of perceived exertion (RPE) were measured before and after each match, while RPE of specific areas was assessed after three matches. ANOVA for repeated measures was used to compare strength parameters after each match with the level of significance set at 5%. The key results showed a significant decrease of jump height (p=0.001) and net vertical impulse in the CMJ (p=0.031), as well as a reduction of the number of reps in the KGST (p<0.001). A significant increase of RPE was found throughout the matches (p<0.001). Considering the RPE in specific areas, no differences were observed between the upper and lower body (p=0.743). We conclude that the BJJ simulated tournament generated a decrease of performance in both upper and lower limbs and provoked a progressive increase in the effort perception over the matches.		[Detanico, Daniele; Dellagrana, Rodolfo Andre; da Silva Athayde, Marina Saldanha; Kons, Rafael Lima; Goes, Angel] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Detanico, Daniele] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Biomech Lab, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								35							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000395034900010	42	Article; Article		
J	Seminati, Elena; Cazzola, Dario; Preatoni, Ezio; Trewartha, Grant								Specific tackling situations affect the biomechanical demands experienced by rugby union players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	1			58	75		10.1080/14763141.2016.1194453			MAR 2017	2017	Tackling in Rugby Union is an open skill which can involve high-speed collisions and is the match event associated with the greatest proportion of injuries. This study aimed to analyse the biomechanics of rugby tackling under three conditions: from a stationary position, with dominant and non-dominant shoulder, and moving forward, with dominant shoulder. A specially devised contact simulator, a 50-kg punch bag instrumented with pressure sensors, was translated towards the tackler (n=15) to evaluate the effect of laterality and tackling approach on the external loads absorbed by the tackler, on head and trunk motion, and on trunk muscle activities. Peak impact force was substantially higher in the stationary dominant (2.84 +/- 0.74 kN) than in the stationary non-dominant condition (2.44 +/- 0.64 kN), but lower than in the moving condition (3.40 +/- 0.86 kN). Muscle activation started on average 300ms before impact, with higher activation for impact-side trapezius and non-impact-side erector spinae and gluteus maximus muscles. Players' technique for non-dominant-side tackles was less compliant with current coaching recommendations in terms of cervical motion (more neck flexion and lateral bending in the stationary non-dominant condition) and players could benefit from specific coaching focus on non-dominant-side tackles.		[Seminati, Elena; Cazzola, Dario; Preatoni, Ezio; Trewartha, Grant] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England; [Seminati, Elena] Univ Bath, Dept Hlth, Bath, Avon, England								37							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000395034900006	33	Article; Article		
J	Damavandi, Mohsen; Eslami, Mansour; Pearsall, David J.								Side-sloped surfaces substantially affect lower limb running kinematics								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	1			1	12		10.1080/14763141.2016.1171895			MAR 2017	2017	Running on side-sloped surfaces is a common obstacle in the environment; however, how and to what extent the lower extremity kinematics adapt is not well known. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of side-sloped surfaces on three-dimensional kinematics of hip, knee, and ankle during stance phase of running. Ten healthy adult males ran barefoot along an inclinable runway in level (0 degrees) and side-sloped (10 degrees up-slope and down-slope inclinations, respectively) configurations. Right hip, knee, and ankle angles along with their time of occurrence were analysed using repeated measures MANOVA. Up-slope hip was more adducted (p=0.015) and internally rotated (p=0.030). Knee had greater external rotations during side-sloped running at heel-strike (p=0.005), while at toe-off, it rotated externally and internally during up-slope and down-slope running, respectively (p=0.001). Down-slope ankle had greatest plantar flexion (p=0.001). Up-slope ankle had greatest eversion compared with down-slope (p=0.043), while it was more externally rotated (p=0.030). These motion patterns are necessary to adjust the lower extremity length during side-sloped running. Timing differences in the kinematic events of hip adduction and external rotation, and ankle eversion were observed (p=0.006). Knowledge on these alterations is a valuable tool in adopting strategies to enhance performance while preventing injury.		[Damavandi, Mohsen] Hakim Sabzevari Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Sabzevar, Iran; [Eslami, Mansour] Univ Mazandaran, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Babol Sar, Iran; [Pearsall, David J.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Damavandi, Mohsen] Hakim Sabzevari Univ, Fac Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Sabzevar, Iran								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000395034900001	33	Article; Article		
J	Veiga, Santiago; Roig, Andreu								Effect of the starting and turning performances on the subsequent swimming parameters of elite swimmers								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	1			34	44		10.1080/14763141.2016.1179782			MAR 2017	2017	In the present research, we examined the effect of the starting and turning performances on the subsequent swimming parameters by (1) comparing the starting and turning velocities with the swimming parameters on the emersion and mid-pool segments and (2) by relating the individual behaviour of swimmers during the start and turns with subsequent behaviour on each swimming lap. One hundred and twelve 100m performances on the FINA 2013 World Swimming Championships were analysed by an image-processing system (InThePool 2.0 (R)). At the point of the start emersion, the swimming parameters of the 100-m elite swimmers were substantially greater than the mid-pool parameters, except on the breaststroke races. On the other hand, no diminution in the swimming parameters was observed between the turn emersion and the mid-pool swimming, except on the butterfly and backstroke male races. Changes on the surface swimming kinematics were not generally related to the starting or turning parameters, although male swimmers who develop faster starts seem to achieve faster velocities at emersion. Race analysts should be aware of a transfer of momentum when swimmers emerge from underwater with implications on the subsequent swimming kinematics, especially for male swimmers who employ underwater undulatory techniques.		[Veiga, Santiago] Madrid Swimming Federat, Madrid, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Tech Univ Madrid, Hlth & Human Performance Dept, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Roig, Andreu] High Performance Ctr, Biomech Dept, Sant Cugat Del Valles, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Madrid Swimming Federat, Madrid, Spain; [Veiga, Santiago] Tech Univ Madrid, Hlth & Human Performance Dept, Fac Phys Act & Sport Sci, Madrid, Spain								62							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000395034900004	43	Article; Article		
J	Chua, YaoHui K.; Quek, Raymond K. K.; Kong, Pui W.								Basketball lay-up-foot loading characteristics and the number of trials necessary to obtain stable plantar pressure variables								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	1			13	22		10.1080/14763141.2016.1174288			MAR 2017	2017	This study aimed (1) to profile the plantar loading characteristics when performing the basketball lay-up in a realistic setting and (2) to determine the number of trials necessary to establish a stable mean for plantar loading variables during the lay-up. Thirteen university male basketball players [age: 23.0 (1.4) years, height: 1.75 (0.05) m, mass: 68.4 (8.6) kg] performed ten successful basketball lay-ups from a stationary position. Plantar loading variables were recorded using the Novel Pedar-X in-shoe system. Loading variables including peak force, peak pressure, and pressure-time integral were extracted from eight foot regions. Performance stability of plantar loading variables during the take-off and landing steps were assessed using the sequential averaging technique and intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC). High plantar loadings were experienced at the heel during the take-off steps, and both the heel and forefoot regions upon landing. The sequential estimation technique revealed a five-eight trial range to achieve a stable mean across all plantar loading variables, whereas ICC analysis was insensitive to inter-trial differences of repeated lay-up performances. Future studies and performance evaluation protocols on plantar loading during basketball lay-ups should include at least eight trials to ensure that the measurements obtained are sufficiently stable.		[Chua, YaoHui K.; Quek, Raymond K. K.; Kong, Pui W.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [Kong, Pui W.] Nanyang Technol Univ, Phys Educ & Sports Sci Acad Grp, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000395034900002	19	Article; Article		
J	Giblin, Georgia; Whiteside, David; Reid, Machar								Now you see, now you don't ... the influence of visual occlusion on racket and ball kinematics in the tennis serve								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	1			23	33		10.1080/14763141.2016.1179337			MAR 2017	2017	The serve is considered amongst the most important strokes in tennis. Not surprisingly, the development of a mechanically consistent and proficient serve is paramount. Correspondingly, drills that involve players serving with their eyes closed are thought to promote mechanical consistency. The purpose of this study was therefore to contrast the effect of the removal of visual feedback on ball and racket kinematics in the serve. A 10-camera 500-Hz VICON MX motion analysis system recorded the service actions of eight elite young players as they performed three serves with eyes open and three serves with eyes closed. Removal of vision resulted in considerable differences in both racket and ball kinematics, with players failing to make contact on 16 of 24 serves. Temporally, the preparation phase was significantly shorter with eyes closed. Spatially, the ball was located 6.5cm further to the right at zenith, and 13cm higher at impact with eyes closed. These results highlight that the serve is not entirely pre-programmable, and that visual feedback is critical to the spatiotemporal regulation of the serve. In turn, coaches need to be aware of the implications of modifying visual feedback in serve, and ensure that the consequence is congruent with their intent.		[Giblin, Georgia; Whiteside, David; Reid, Machar] Tennis Australia, Innovat & Insight Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Giblin, Georgia; Whiteside, David] Victoria Univ, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Reid, Machar] Univ Western Australia, Sch Sport Sci Exercise & Hlth, Perth, WA, Australia; [Giblin, Georgia] Tennis Australia, Innovat & Insight Grp, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Giblin, Georgia] Victoria Univ, Inst Sport Exercise & Act Living, Melbourne, Vic, Australia								14							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000395034900003	31	Article; Article		
J	Ibrahim, Rony; Faber, Gert S.; Kingma, Idsart; van Dieen, Jaap H.								Kinematic analysis of the drag flick in field hockey								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	1			45	57		10.1080/14763141.2016.1182207			MAR 2017	2017	Attaining high speed of the stick head and consequently of the ball is essential for successful performance of the drag flick in field hockey, but the coordination pattern used to maximise stick head speed is unknown. The kinematics of the drag flick was studied in ten elite hockey players who performed twenty shots each towards a target located 1.5m high. A 150Hz active marker motion analysis system was used, alongside two force plates to detect foot touchdown. Angular velocity and contribution to stick endpoint speed of upper body joints were analysed. Repeated measures ANOVA was used to compare timing of onset and peak angular velocities between joints. Participants used a kinematic pattern that was close to a proximal-to-distal sequence. Trunk axial rotation and lateral rotation towards the target, right wrist flexion and left wrist extension were the main contributors to stick endpoint speed. Coaches should emphasise trunk rotations and wrist flexion and extension movements for maximising stick head speed. Given the high level of the participants in this study, the coordination of joints motions, as reported here, can serve as a guideline for drag flick training.		[Ibrahim, Rony; Faber, Gert S.; Kingma, Idsart; van Dieen, Jaap H.] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kingma, Idsart] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Fac Behav & Movement Sci, Dept Human Movement Sci, Amsterdam, Netherlands								25							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000395034900005	27	Article; Article		
J	Laumets, Rauno; Viigipuu, Karel; Mooses, Kerli; Maestu, Jarek; Purge, Priit; Pehme, Ando; Kaasik, Priit; Mooses, Martin								Lower Leg Length is Associated with Running Economy in High Level Caucasian Distance Runners								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			229	239		10.1515/hukin-2017-0040			FEB 2017	2017	The aim of the present study was to investigate lower limb anthropometric and composition variables related to running economy (RE) and running performance in a homogeneous group of high level European distance runners. RE at the speeds of 14, 16 and 18 km(.)h(-1) (189 +/- 12; 188 +/- 11; 187 +/- 11 O-2 ml(.)kg(-1.)km(-1)) and maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) (67.3 +/- 2.9 ml(.)kg(-1.)min(-1)) of 13 high level distance runners were determined on a motorised treadmill. Anthropometric variables and body composition were measured. The BMI was related to RE at the speed of 14 (r(2) = 0.434; p = 0.014), 16 (r(2) = 0.436; p = 0.014) and 18 km(.)h(-1) (r(2) = 0.389; p = 0.023). Lower leg length was negatively related to RE at the speed of 16 and showed such a tendency at the speed of 14 and 18 km(.)h(-1). VO2max indicated a moderate relationship with RE at the speeds of 14, 16 and 18 km.h-1 (r(2) = 0.372, p = 0.030; r(2) = 0.350, p = 0.033; r(2) = 0.376, p = 0.026, respectively) which was confirmed by subsequent partial correlation analysis. While lower leg length and the BMI presented a relationship with RE, none of the calculated body composition and anthropometric proportions were related to RE or performance. The relationship between RE and VO2max would confirm the notion that RE could be at least partly compensated by VO2max to achieve high performance results.		[Laumets, Rauno; Viigipuu, Karel; Mooses, Kerli; Maestu, Jarek; Purge, Priit; Pehme, Ando; Kaasik, Priit; Mooses, Martin] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Inst Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, Jakobi 5, EE-51014 Tartu, Estonia; [Mooses, Martin] Univ Tartu, Fac Med, Inst Sport Sci & Physiotherapy, Jakobi 5, EE-51014 Tartu, Estonia								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300024	54	Article; Article		
J	Chmura, Pawel; Andrzejewski, Marcin; Konefal, Marek; Mroczek, Dariusz; Rokita, Andrzej; Chmura, Jan								Analysis of Motor Activities of Professional Soccer Players during the 2014 World Cup in Brazil								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			187	195		10.1515/hukin-2017-0036			FEB 2017	2017	The aim of the present study was to analyze motor activities of soccer players in seven consecutive rounds of matches of the 2014 World Cup in Brazil and to compare the performance of the world champions, the German national team with other participating teams. The study sample comprised 905 observations of 340 soccer players, who played full-time matches in all seven rounds of the tournament. The study was conducted using data collected from the Castrol Performance Index, a kinematic game analysis system that records movements of players with semi-automatic cameras. The following variables were analyzed: total distance covered, the percentage of total distance covered at high intensity, the number of sprints, frequency of sprints and peak running speed. A statistically significant increase (p = 0.01) was noted in total distance covered, the percentage of distance covered at high intensity and total number of sprints, between the quarter-finals and semi-finals of the World Cup tournament in Brazil. The German national team covered a significantly longer total distance (p = 0.05) and had a greater percentage of distance covered at high intensity (p = 0.001) than players from other teams. The obtained results point to the necessity of development of players' aerobic endurance and speed-endurance abilities while preparing for top-level soccer tournaments. Winning a soccer championship requires players to run longer mean total distances and longer distances at high intensity during a single match.		[Chmura, Pawel; Rokita, Andrzej] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Chair Team Sports, Al IJ Paderewskiego 35, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland; [Andrzejewski, Marcin] Univ Sch Phys Educ Poznan, Chair Recreat, Poznan, Poland; [Konefal, Marek; Mroczek, Dariusz; Chmura, Jan] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Chair Motor Skills, Wroclaw, Poland; [Chmura, Pawel] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, Chair Team Sports, Al IJ Paderewskiego 35, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland								48							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300020	31	Article; Article		
J	Chen, Zong-Rong; Lo, Shin-Liang; Wang, Min-Hsien; Yu, Ching-Fang; Peng, Hsien-Te								Can Different Complex Training Improve the Individual Phenomenon of Post-Activation Potentiation?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			167	175		10.1515/hukin-2017-0034			FEB 2017	2017	The aims of the present study were (a) to determine whether the two types of complex training and vibration complex training would improve the individual phenomenon of post-activation potentiation (PAP) for every athlete in a team setting; and (b) to compare the acute effect of resistance and plyometric exercise, whole body vibration, complex training and vibration complex training on vertical jump performance. The participants were ten male division I college volleyball and basketball players. They were asked to perform three vertical jumps as a pre-test and were then randomly assigned to one of five PAP protocols, resistance exercise using half squat exercise, plyometric exercise using drop jumps with individualized drop height, whole body vibration using squats on a vibration plate, complex training combining resistance exercise with plyometric exercise, vibration complex training combining whole body vibration with plyometric exercise. Three vertical jumps were performed four minutes after the PAP protocol as a post-test. A two-way repeated-measures analysis of variance was used to examine the differences among the five PAP protocols and between the two testing times. Our results showed that the post-test results were significantly improved compared to the pre-test for the vertical jump height (p = .015) in all PAP protocols. There was, however, an individual phenomenon of PAP in the response to all PAP protocols. In conclusion, this study found that resistance and plyometric exercise, whole body vibration, complex training and vibration complex training induce similar group PAP benefits. However, some athletes decreased their performances in some of the exercises in the study. Therefore, it is not recommended for coaches to arrange the exercises in a team setting.		[Chen, Zong-Rong] Chinese Culture Univ, Grad Inst Sport Coaching Sci, Taipei, Taiwan; [Lo, Shin-Liang; Wang, Min-Hsien; Yu, Ching-Fang; Peng, Hsien-Te] Chinese Culture Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 55 Hwa Kang Rd, Taipei 11114, Taiwan; [Peng, Hsien-Te] Chinese Culture Univ, Dept Phys Educ, 55 Hwa Kang Rd, Taipei 11114, Taiwan								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300018	35	Article; Article		
J	Kuvacic, Goran; Krstulovic, Sasa; Caput, Petra Dapic								Factors Determining Success in Youth Judokas								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			207	217		10.1515/hukin-2017-0038			FEB 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to compare two models of determining factors for success in judo. The first model (Model A) included testing motor abilities of high-level Croatian judokas in the cadet age category. The sample in Model A consisted of 71 male and female judokas aged 16 +/- 0.6 years who were divided into four subsamples according to sex and weight category. The second model (Model B) consisted of interviewing 40 top-level judo experts on the importance of motor abilities for cadets' success in judo. According to Model A, the greatest impact on the criterion variable of success in males and females of heavier weight categories were variables assessing maximum strength, coordination and jumping ability. In the lighter weight male categories, the highest correlation with the criterion variable of success was the variable assessing agility. However, in the lighter weight female categories, the greatest impact on success had the variable assessing muscular endurance. In Model B, specific endurance was crucial for success in judo, while flexibility was the least important, regardless of sex and weight category. Spearman's rank correlation coefficients showed that there were no significant correlations in the results obtained in Models A and B for all observed subsamples. Although no significant correlations between the factors for success obtained through Models A and B were found, common determinants of success, regardless of the applied model, were identified.		[Kuvacic, Goran; Krstulovic, Sasa] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, 06 Teslas St, Split 21000, Croatia; [Caput, Petra Dapic] Judo Club Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik, Croatia; [Kuvacic, Goran] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, 06 Teslas St, Split 21000, Croatia								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300022	36	Article; Article		
J	Manchado, Carmen; Garcia-Ruiz, Jose; Manuel Cortell-Tormo, Juan; Tortosa-Martinez, Juan								Effect of Core Training on Male Handball Players' Throwing Velocity								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			177	185		10.1515/hukin-2017-0035			FEB 2017	2017	In handball, throwing velocity is considered to be one of the essential factors in achieving the ultimate aim of scoring a goal. The objective of the present study was to analyze the effect of a core training program on throwing velocity in 30 handball players (age 18.7 +/- 3.4 years, body height 179.3 +/- 7.0 cm, body mass 78.9 +/- 7.7 kg), 16 of whom were in the junior category and 14 of whom were in the senior category. The 30 players were randomly divided into two groups, the control group (n = 15) and the experimental group (n = 15). For a period of ten weeks, both groups attended their regular handball training sessions (four per week), but in addition, the experimental group participated in a program specifically aimed at progressively strengthening the lumbo-pelvic region and consisting of seven exercises performed after the general warm-up in each regular session. Pre- and post-tests were carried out to analyze each player's throwing velocity from different throwing positions and thus assess the effects of this specific training program. Statistically significant differences (p <= 0.05) in throwing velocity were observed between the experimental group, which presented a percentage improvement of 4.5%, and the control group, which did not show any improvement. The results seem to indicate that an increase in the strength and stability of the lumbo-pelvic region can contribute to an improvement in the kinetic chain of the specific movement of throwing in handball, thus, increasing throwing velocity.		[Manchado, Carmen; Garcia-Ruiz, Jose; Manuel Cortell-Tormo, Juan; Tortosa-Martinez, Juan] Univ Alicante, Fac Educ, Alicante, Spain; [Manchado, Carmen] Univ Alicante, Carretera San Vicente Raspeig S-N, San Vicente Del Raspeig 03690, Spain								52							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300019	29	Article; Article		
J	Chang, Chen-Kang; Borer, Katarina; Lin, Po-Ju								Low-Carbohydrate-High-Fat Diet: Can it Help Exercise Performance?								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			81	92		10.1515/hukin-2017-0025			FEB 2017	2017	Low-carbohydrate-high-fat (LCHF) diets have been used as a means of weight loss and control of symptoms in several clinical conditions. There is emerging evidence that the metabolic changes induced by LCHF diets enhance endurance performance. The aims of this review are to examine the evidence of LCHF diets in improving various aspects of athletic performance. Long-term LCHF dietary intake may help control body weight and fat mass while maintaining lean body mass in athletes in weight-sensitive sports. LCHF-adapted endurance athletes can reach the maximal fat oxidation rate of approximately 1.5 g/min, with a lower carbohydrate oxidation rate and similar muscle glycogen content and a resynthesis rate compared to their counterparts consuming high-carbohydrate-low-fat (HCLF) diets. The elevated fat oxidation rate and glycogen sparing effect may improve performance in ultra-endurance events. These metabolic changes may also prevent the decline in performance in later stages of repeated high-intensity movements, in which the aerobic metabolism becomes more important. However, elevated blood concentrations of non-esterified fatty acids and ammonia during exercise after LCHF diets may lead to early development of central fatigue. It appears that at least several months of adaptation to a LCHF diet are required for the metabolic changes and restoration of muscle glycogen to occur. Further investigations on LCHF diets are needed regarding (1) performance after weight loss in weight-categorized sports; (2) repeated high-intensity exercise performance; (3) development of central fatigue during endurance events; (4) perceptual-motor performance during prolonged intermittent sports; and (5) ideal dietary fatty acid compositions.		[Chang, Chen-Kang] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Sport Sci Res Ctr, 16 Sec 1,Shuan Shih Rd, Taichung 404, Taiwan; [Borer, Katarina; Lin, Po-Ju] Univ Michigan, Sch Kinesiol, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Chang, Chen-Kang] Natl Taiwan Univ Sport, Sport Sci Res Ctr, 16 Sec 1,Shuan Shih Rd, Taichung 404, Taiwan								54							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300009	75	Article; Article		
J	Tekus, Eva; Vaczi, Mark; Horvath-Szalai, Zoltan; Ludany, Andrea; Koszegi, Tamas; Wilhelm, Marta								Plasma Actin, Gelsolin and Orosomucoid Levels after Eccentric Exercise								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			99	108		10.1515/hukin-2017-0027			FEB 2017	2017	The present study investigated the acute effect of eccentric exercise on blood plasma actin, gelsolin (GSN) and orosomucoid (AGP) levels in untrained and moderately trained individuals, and their correlation with exercise induced muscle damage (EIMD) markers (CK, intensity of muscle soreness and maximal voluntary contraction torque deficit). Healthy physical education students (6 untrained, 12 moderately trained) participated in this research. Actin, GSN, AGP and CK levels were measured in blood plasma at baseline, immediately, 1 h, 6 h and 24 h post-exercise comprising 90 eccentric quadriceps contractions performed on a dynamometer. There was significant time main effect for GSN, AGP, CK and significant difference was found between baseline and the lowest value of post-exercise GSN (p < 0.05), as well as baseline and the highest value of post-exercise AGP (p < 0.05). Relationships were found between GSN levels and other indirect EIMD markers (between all GSN levels at post-exercise and CK activity at 6 h, p < 0.05; GSNMIN and muscle soreness at post-exercise, p < 0.04), GSN and AGP; however, actin did not correlate at any time points with GSN. Actin, GSN, AGP and CK responses after eccentric exercise do not seem sensitive to training status. The plasma actin level is used as an indicator of injury, however, our results suggest that it is not an accurate marker of EIMD, while plasma GSN concentrations show a better relationship with EIMD and the post-exercise inflammatory process. The elevated plasma AGP and the correlation between GSN and AGP seem to be promising for assessment of exerciseinduced muscle injury.		[Tekus, Eva; Vaczi, Mark; Wilhelm, Marta] Univ Pecs, Inst Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Ifjusag St 6, H-7624 Pecs, Hungary; [Tekus, Eva] Univ Pecs, Doctoral Sch Biol & Sportbiol, Ifjusag St 6, H-7624 Pecs, Hungary; [Horvath-Szalai, Zoltan; Ludany, Andrea; Koszegi, Tamas] Univ Pecs, Inst Lab Med, Pecs, Hungary; [Koszegi, Tamas] Janos Szentagothai Res Ctr, Pecs, Hungary; [Tekus, Eva] Univ Pecs, Inst Sport Sci & Phys Educ, Ifjusag St 6, H-7624 Pecs, Hungary; [Tekus, Eva] Univ Pecs, Doctoral Sch Biol & Sportbiol, Ifjusag St 6, H-7624 Pecs, Hungary; [Tekus, Eva] Ifjusag St 6, H-7624 Pecs, Hungary								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300011	44	Article; Article		
J	Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Pereira, Lucas A.; Abad, Cesar C. Cal; Cruz, Igor F.; Flatt, Andrew A.; Esco, Michael R.; Loturco, Irineu								Adequacy of the Ultra-Short-Term HRV to Assess Adaptive Processes in Youth Female Basketball Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			73	80		10.1515/hukin-2017-0024			FEB 2017	2017	Heart rate variability has been widely used to monitor athletes' cardiac autonomic control changes induced by training and competition, and recently shorter recording times have been sought to improve its practicality. The aim of this study was to test the agreement between the (ultra-short-term) natural log of the root-mean-square difference of successive normal RR intervals (lnRMSSD - measured in only 1 min post-1 min stabilization) and the criterion lnRMSSD (measured in the last 5 min out of 10 min of recording) in young female basketball players. Furthermore, the correlation between training induced delta change in the ultra-short-term lnRMSSD and the criterion lnRMSSD was calculated. Seventeen players were assessed at rest pre-and post-eight weeks of training. Trivial effect sizes (-0.03 in the pre-and 0.10 in the post-treatment) were found in the comparison between the ultra-short-term lnRMSSD (3.29 +/- 0.45 and 3.49 +/- 0.35 ms, in the pre-and post-, respectively) and the criterion lnRMSSD (3.30 +/- 0.40 and 3.45 +/- 0.41 ms, in the pre-and post-, respectively) (intraclass correlation coefficient = 0.95 and 0.93). In both cases, the response to training was significant, with Pearson's correlation of 0.82 between the delta changes of the ultra-short-term lnRMSSD and the criterion lnRMSSD. In conclusion, the lnRMSSD can be calculated within only 2 min of data acquisition (the 1(st) min discarded) in young female basketball players, with the ultra-short-term measure presenting similar sensitivity to training effects as the standard criterion measure.		[Nakamura, Fabio Y.; Pereira, Lucas A.; Abad, Cesar C. Cal; Loturco, Irineu] Nucleus High Performance Sport NAR, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Univ Estadual Londrina, Londrina, PR, Brazil; [Cruz, Igor F.] Assoc Desport Classista Bradesco Osasco, Osasco, SP, Brazil; [Flatt, Andrew A.; Esco, Michael R.] Univ Alabama, Dept Kinesiol, Exercise Physiol Lab, Tuscaloosa, AL USA; [Nakamura, Fabio Y.] Av Padre Jose Maria,555 Santo Amaro, BR-04753060 Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300008	34	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Padial, Paulino; De la Fuente, Blanca; Argueelles-Cienfuegos, Javier; Bonitch-Gongora, Juan; Feriche, Belen								The Effect of Acute and Chronic Exposure to Hypobaric Hypoxia on Loaded Squat Jump Performance								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			149	158		10.1515/hukin-2017-0032			FEB 2017	2017	The present study aimed (1) to compare loaded squat jump performance after an acute and chronic exposure to a moderate natural altitude between normoxia and hypobaric hypoxia conditions, and (2) to analyze the effect of an altitude training camp on loaded jump squat development. Sixteen male swimmers (17.1 +/- 0.8 years) took part in a 17-day training camp at a natural moderate altitude. They were randomly tested in counterbalanced order on days 1 and 3 in normoxia and hypoxia (pretest) and on days 15 and 17 again in normoxia and hypoxia (posttest). The peak velocity reached with loads equivalent to 25%, 50%, 75% and 100% of swimmers' pretest body weight in the loaded squat jump exercise was the dependent variable analyzed. An overall increase in peak velocity during the test performed in hypoxia of 6.5% in pretest (p < 0.001, ES = 0.98) and 4.5% in posttest (p < 0.001, ES = 0.81) was observed. An overall increment in peak velocity of 4.0% considering the data for normoxia tests (p < 0.001, ES = 0.61) and 2.1% considering the data for hypoxia tests (p = 0.008, ES = 0.36) was achieved after the altitude training camp. These results highlight the beneficial effects of hypobaric hypoxia on jump performance after short and longer term exposure to a natural moderate altitude. The increase in loaded squat jump performance following the 17-day training camp suggests that altitude training could constitute a favorable stimulus in explosive strength.		Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, E-18071 Granada, Spain; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Padial, Paulino; Bonitch-Gongora, Juan; Feriche, Belen] High Performance Ctr Sierra Nevada, Spanish Sport Council, Sierra Nevada, Spain; [Feriche, Belen] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Ctra Alfacar S-N, Granada 18011, Spain								5							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300016	30	Article; Article		
J	Cugliari, Giovanni; Boccia, Gennaro								Core Muscle Activation in Suspension Training Exercises								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			61	71		10.1515/hukin-2017-0023			FEB 2017	2017	A quantitative observational laboratory study was conducted to characterize and classify core training exercises executed in a suspension modality on the base of muscle activation. In a prospective single-group repeated-measures design, seventeen active male participants performed four suspension exercises typically associated with core training (roll-out, bodysaw, pike and knee-tuck). Surface electromyographic signals were recorded from lower and upper parts of rectus abdominis, external oblique, internal oblique, lower and upper parts of erector spinae muscles using concentric bipolar electrodes. The average rectified values of electromyographic signals were normalized with respect to individual maximum voluntary isometric contraction of each muscle. Roll-out exercise showed the highest activation of rectus abdominis and oblique muscles compared to the other exercises. The rectus abdominis and external oblique reached an activation higher than 60% of the maximal voluntary contraction (or very close to that threshold, 55%) in roll-out and bodysaw exercises. Findings from this study allow the selection of suspension core training exercises on the basis of quantitative information about the activation of muscles of interest. Roll-out and bodysaw exercises can be considered as suitable for strength training of rectus abdominis and external oblique muscles.		[Cugliari, Giovanni] Univ Pavia, Dept Brain & Behav Sci, Unit Med & Genom Stat, Pavia, Italy; [Cugliari, Giovanni] Univ Torino, Dept Med Sci, Turin, Italy; [Boccia, Gennaro] CeRiSM Res Ctr Sport Mt & Hlth, Via Ben 5-B, I-38068 Rovereto, TN, Italy; [Boccia, Gennaro] Univ Turin, SUISM, Motor Sci Res Ctr, Sch Exercise & Sport Sci,Dept Med Sci, 12 Piazza Bernini, I-10143 Turin, Italy; [Boccia, Gennaro] CeRiSM Res Ctr Sport Mt & Hlth, Via Ben 5-B, I-38068 Rovereto, TN, Italy; [Boccia, Gennaro] Univ Turin, SUISM, Motor Sci Res Ctr, Sch Exercise & Sport Sci,Dept Med Sci, 12 Piazza Bernini, I-10143 Turin, Italy; [Boccia, Gennaro] 12 Piazza Bernini, I-10143 Turin, Italy								31							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300007	30	Article; Article		
J	Wang, Xi; Zhang, Shen; Fu, Weijie								Changes in Impact Signals and Muscle Activity in Response to Different Shoe and Landing Conditions								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			5	18		10.1515/hukin-2017-0018			FEB 2017	2017	Few rigorous scientific studies have investigated how the corresponding neuromuscular activity in the lower extremity occurs during different landing control movements in response to different impact signals. This study aimed to determine the potential shoe effects on impact signals, neuromuscular responses and their possible interactions in different human landing movements. Twelve male basketball players were required to wear high-cushioned basketball shoes (BS) and minimally cushioned control shoes (CC) to perform active drop jump landings (DJL) and passive landings (PL). Ground reaction forces and EMG amplitude (root mean square, EMGRMS) of the leg muscles within 50 ms before and after the landing movements were collected simultaneously. No shoe effect was found on the characteristics of impact signals and neuromuscular activity during the contact phase of DJL. By contrast, for PL, the values of maximal ground reaction force and the peak loading rate were evidently lower in the BS condition than in the CC condition (p < 0.05). Meanwhile, the EMGRMS of all muscles demonstrated a significant decrease in the BS condition compared with the CC condition within 50 ms after contact (p < 0.05). These findings suggest that under the condition in which related muscles are activated improperly, a neuromuscular adaptation occurs in response to different impact signals.		[Wang, Xi; Zhang, Shen; Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xi] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Fu, Weijie] Shanghai Univ Sport, Key Lab Exercise & Hlth Sci, Minist Educ, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								13							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300002	38	Article; Article		
J	Coh, Milan; Peharec, Stanislav; Bacic, Petar; Mackala, Krzyszfof								Biomechanical Differences in the Sprint Start Between Faster and Slower High-Level Sprinters								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			29	38		10.1515/hukin-2017-0020			FEB 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to examine the kinematic and kinetic differences of the sprint start and first two steps between faster and slower high-level sprinters. Twelve male sprinters were dichotomized according to personal best 60-and 100-m times. Each participant performed five starts under constant conditions. An eight-camera system was used for 3-D kinematic analysis. Dynamic forces at the start were determined with starting blocks mounted on bipedal force plates. Measures of front and rear block total force, front and rear block maximal force, time to front and rear block peak force, total force impulse, total horizontal and vertical impulse, front and rear block force impulse, time of block clearance, block leaving velocity and block leaving acceleration were collected. Between-group comparisons were made using independent samples t tests (p < 0.05) and by calculating effect sizes (Cohen's d). Spearman's correlation coefficients were used to examine the relationships between sprint start kinematics, kinetic measures and sprint performance. Significant between-group differences were observed in rear block total force (p = 0.0059), rear block maximal vertical force (p = 0.0037) and total force impulse (p = 0.0493). Only front block total force significantly correlated with 100 m sprint performance in both the slower and faster groups (r = 0.94 and 0.54, respectively; p = 0.05). Our findings suggest that faster sprinters show enhanced sprint start motor performance with greater force development than slower sprinters.		[Coh, Milan] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Peharec, Stanislav; Bacic, Petar] Polyclin Phys Med & Rehabil PEHAREC, Pula, Croatia; [Mackala, Krzyszfof] Univ Sch Phys Educ, Dept Track & Field, Wroclaw, Poland; [Mackala, Krzyszfof] Univ Sch Phys Educ Wroclaw, AWF Wroclaw, Dept Track & Field, Ul Paderewskiego 35, PL-51612 Wroclaw, Poland								25							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300004	32	Article; Article		
J	Gentil, Paulo; Del Vecchio, Fabricio Boscolo; Paoli, Antonio; Schoenfeld, Brad J.; Bottaro, Martim								Isokinetic Dynamometry and 1RM Tests Produce Conflicting Results for Assessing Alterations in Muscle Strength								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			19	27		10.1515/hukin-2017-0019			FEB 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to compare strength gains in the lower limbs, assessed by one maximum repetition (1RM) and isokinetic peak torque (PT), in young men undergoing a resistance training (RT) program. Twenty-seven young men performed resistance training twice a week for 11 weeks. Training involved two exercises for the lower body, two for the upper body and one for the midsection performed with three sets of 8-12 repetitions to momentary muscle failure. Before and after the training period, participants performed the 1RM test in the 45 degrees leg press and knee extension PT in isokinetic dynamometry. The Pearson correlation coefficient was used to assess the relationship between the changes in 1RM and PT, and the Bland-Altman test was performed to check for agreement between the strength changes of both tests. There were significant changes in 1RM and PT of 23.98% and 15.96%, respectively (p < 0.05). The changes in leg press 1RM were significantly higher than the ones in PT. The Bland-Altman analysis revealed that the tests were not equivalent. In conclusion, professionals and researchers involved in strength assessment should be aware that the results obtained by PT and 1RM are not equivalent when evaluating individual responsiveness and/or the efficacy of an intervention on muscle strength, as the results obtained show large variations and can be even conflicting.		[Gentil, Paulo] Univ Fed Goias, Coll Phys Educ & Dance, Goiania, GO, Brazil; [Del Vecchio, Fabricio Boscolo] Univ Fed Pelotas, Super Sch Phys Educ, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Paoli, Antonio] Univ Padua, Dept Biomed Sci, Padua, Italy; [Schoenfeld, Brad J.] CUNY Lehman Coll, Dept Hlth Sci, Bronx, NY USA; [Bottaro, Martim] Univ Brasilia, Coll Phys Educ, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Gentil, Paulo] Univ Fed Goias, FEFD, Campus Samambaia Ave Esperanca S-N, BR-74690900 Goiania, Go, Brazil								43							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300003	27	Article; Article		
J	Zivkovic, Milena Z.; Djuric, Sasa; Cuk, Ivan; Suzovic, Dejan; Jaric, Slobodan								Muscle Force-Velocity Relationships Observed in Four Different Functional Tests								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				56	1			39	49		10.1515/hukin-2017-0021			FEB 2017	2017	The aims of the present study were to investigate the shape and strength of the force-velocity relationships observed in different functional movement tests and explore the parameters depicting force, velocity and power producing capacities of the tested muscles. Twelve subjects were tested on maximum performance in vertical jumps, cycling, bench press throws, and bench pulls performed against different loads. Thereafter, both the averaged and maximum force and velocity variables recorded from individual trials were used for force-velocity relationship modeling. The observed individual force-velocity relationships were exceptionally strong (median correlation coefficients ranged from r = 0.930 to r = 0.995) and approximately linear independently of the test and variable type. Most of the relationship parameters observed from the averaged and maximum force and velocity variable types were strongly related in all tests (r = 0.789-0.991), except for those in vertical jumps (r = 0.485-0.930). However, the generalizability of the force-velocity relationship parameters depicting maximum force, velocity and power of the tested muscles across different tests was inconsistent and on average moderate. We concluded that the linear force-velocity relationship model based on either maximum or averaged force-velocity data could provide the outcomes depicting force, velocity and power generating capacity of the tested muscles, although such outcomes can only be partially generalized across different muscles.		[Zivkovic, Milena Z.; Djuric, Sasa; Cuk, Ivan; Suzovic, Dejan] Univ Belgrade, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Res Ctr, Belgrade, Serbia; [Cuk, Ivan] Coll Sports & Hlth, Belgrade, Serbia; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Biomech & Movement Sci Grad Program, Newark, DE 19716 USA; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, 541 South Coll Ave, Newark, DE 19716 USA								35							Sport Sciences	WOS:000396924300005	24	Article; Article		
J	Salter, Alexander W.								Strategic Offsetting Behavior in the NBA: An Analysis of the Effects of the Mikan Rule								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	2			126	139		10.1177/1527002514560578			FEB 2017	2017	This brief article estimates the effects of a rule change from the early days of professional basketball. The Mikan rule was intended to curb the offensive potency of tall players whose primary contribution to team output consisted of points scored close to the basket. The Mikan rule limited players' ability to stand close to the basket, and hence made it more difficult for these players to score. However, the rule change did not account for strategic offsetting behavior-that defensive players' optimal allocation of resources would change in response to the rule. I engage the literature on strategic offsetting behavior and estimate a two-way fixed effects model that strongly suggests the Mikan rule did not have its intended effect due to strategic offsetting behavior.		[Salter, Alexander W.] Berry Coll, Econ, Mt Berry, GA USA; [Salter, Alexander W.] Berry Coll, 2277 Martha Berry Hwy NW, Mt Berry, GA 30149 USA								1							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189500002	13	Article; Article		
J	Fizel, John; McNeil, Chris R.								Bowling for Dollars: Title Sponsorship of College Football Bowls								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	2			162	181		10.1177/1527002514566282			FEB 2017	2017	Corporate title sponsorship of college football bowl games has proliferated over the past two decades, yet little analysis has been made concerning the returns to these investments. This article examines the impact that title sponsorships have had on the stock value of the corporate sponsors. Using event study analysis, we find that there was no significant change, on average, in the stock prices following the sponsorship announcements. However, a cross-sectional analysis of changes in firm stock prices relative to corporate and bowl characteristics reveals that markets view sponsorships by large and high-tech firms negatively and major bowls positively.		[Fizel, John] Penn State Univ, Sam & Irene Black Sch Business, Econ, Erie, PA 16563 USA; [McNeil, Chris R.] Appalachian State Univ, Walker Coll Business, Dept Finance, Boone, NC 28608 USA; [Fizel, John] Penn State Univ, Sam & Irene Sch Business, Erie, PA 16563 USA								6							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189500004	36	Article; Article		
J	Schultz, Katie								Do High School Athletes Get Better Grades During the Off-Season?								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	2			182	208		10.1177/1527002514566279			FEB 2017	2017	A great deal of recent research has employed instrumental variables to estimate the effect of participation in athletics on academic or labor market outcomes, finding evidence of small positive effects from participation. This research proposes several theories of how participation affects success but cannot distinguish between them. I ask a fundamentally different question, whether an athlete performs better or worse, academically, during the season in which they participate in sports, focusing on the time allocation theory of participation. Time spent on sports may substitute from time on academics or negative leisure activities, causing academic performance to improve or decline in-season, respectively. This paper finds a small negative and significant in-season effect on academic performance for varsity athletes and a small positive and significant in-season effect on academic performance for junior varsity (JV) athletes. Decreases in in-season grade point average (GPA) for varsity athletes occur through a decline in performance in English and history courses, while increases in in-season GPAfor JV athletes operate through an improvement in math and science courses. Results are robust to controlling for various measures of course ease across semesters. The relatively small in-season effects suggest that estimates of the effects of participation in the rest of the literature operate primarily through mechanisms other than time allocation.		[Schultz, Katie] Coll William & Mary, Dept Econ, Morton Hall 110,621 Jamestown Rd, Williamsburg, VA 23185 USA; [Schultz, Katie] Coll William & Mary, Dept Econ, Morton Hall 110,621 Jamestown Rd, Williamsburg, VA 23185 USA								4							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189500005	18	Article; Article		
J	Fisher, Leslee A.; Bejar, Matthew P.; Larsen, Leslie K.; Fynes, Jamie M.; Gearity, Brian T.								Caring in US National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Sport: The perspectives of 18 female and male head coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	1			75	91		10.1177/1747954116684388			FEB 2017	2017	The current study was undertaken to explore how U.S. National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I female and male head coaches defined and implemented care in their coaching practice. Eighteen coaches (M=39.2 years; nine females, nine males) from eight different sports (baseball, rowing, soccer, softball, swimming, track and field/cross-country, volleyball, and golf) consented to be interviewed via a semi-structured interview guide based on the care literature. Data analysis was conducted using Consensual Qualitative Research with a team of five researchers including an external auditor. Results revealed that care revolved around six domains: (a) definition of care; (b) manifestations of care; (c) limits to capacity to be caring; (d) development of care; (e) factors facilitating care, and (f) factors hindering care. Each domain contained several categories (N=22 total categories) composed of core ideas. Results are presented using participants' own words to illustrate domains and categories. Implications for research and practice are also put forth, which link the findings to the broader U.S. National Collegiate Athletic Association coaching context.		[Fisher, Leslee A.; Bejar, Matthew P.; Larsen, Leslie K.] Univ Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Fynes, Jamie M.] Clemson Univ, Clemson, SC USA; [Gearity, Brian T.] Univ Denver, Denver, CO USA; [Fisher, Leslee A.] Univ Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								24							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000394964400022	39	Article; Article		
J	Fett, Janina; Ulbricht, Alexander; Wiewelhove, Thimo; Ferrauti, Alexander								Athletic performance, training characteristics, and orthopedic indications in junior tennis Davis Cup players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	1			119	129		10.1177/1747954116684393			FEB 2017	2017	Our study aimed to examine athletics, training characteristics, and prevalence of musculoskeletal symptoms of male junior tennis Davis Cup players (DC) in comparison with their regional counterparts, as well as to evaluate the impact of age and performance level on training characteristics. Twelve junior DC (male) and two samples of regional squad players (RS1 n=60 males, n=47 females; RS2 n=59 males) participated in a physical testing, an interview for data evaluation on training characteristics, and a questionnaire survey of orthopedic injury frequency. Results indicate higher physical performance levels (effect size (ES) 0.75-1.26) and training volumes in DC (ES 1.23-1.66). In DC, significant relationships were found between total training volume and tennis ranking (r=-0.78), age and physical training volume (r=0.82), and age and total training volume (r=0.62). Injury frequencies showed moderate to high prevalence with no differences (p>0.05) between DC and RS. Given the demands of elite tennis and the important role of service in the modern game, more efforts are necessary to develop training prescription for both performance enhancement and prevention strategies.		[Fett, Janina; Ulbricht, Alexander; Wiewelhove, Thimo; Ferrauti, Alexander] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Training & Exercise Sci, Gesundheitscampus Nord 10, D-44801 Bochum, Germany; [Fett, Janina] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Training & Exercise Sci, Gesundheitscampus Nord 10, D-44801 Bochum, Germany								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000394964400026	51	Article; Article		
J	Kubayi, Alliance; Coopoo, Yoga; Morris-Eyton, Heather								Work-related constraints in sports coaching: Perceptions of South African female coaches								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	1			103	108		10.1177/1747954116684391			FEB 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate the work-related constraints encountered by female coaches in the Gauteng Province of South Africa. Participants were 100 female coaches who completed a 34-item questionnaire on the perceived constraints/hindrances to coaching. A Cronbach's of 0.953 was recorded for the questionnaire. Results indicated that coaches identified lack of support for women coaches, inadequate salary, job insecurity, difficulties in working with parents/spectators and coaching at weekends and evenings as the major constraints to their coaching. Based on the results of this study, it is recommended that female coaches should be provided with support programmes which could ensure fair treatment of female coaches, promote equitable salaries, alleviate all forms of discrimination and ensure that their needs are well catered for.		[Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, Private Bag X680, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa; [Coopoo, Yoga; Morris-Eyton, Heather] Univ Johannesburg, Dept Sport & Movement Studies, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Kubayi, Alliance] Tshwane Univ Technol, Dept Sport Rehabil & Dent Sci, Private Bag X680, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa								22							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000394964400024	20	Article; Article		
J	Nash, Christine; Sproule, John; Horton, Peter								Feedback for coaches: Who coaches the coach?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	1			92	102		10.1177/1747954116684390			FEB 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to investigate the feedback mechanisms that sport coaches utilized to enhance their coaching practice at various stages of their careers. Sport coaches (n=21) were interviewed in-depth with the resulting information being analysed using HyperRESEARCH qualitative data analysis software package. Results suggested four distinct dimensions that characterized the sources of feedback used by coaches: networks, players/participants, critical thinking skills and support systems. Those more experienced coaches with established networks of like-minded coaches seemed to be more open to constructive feedback. Similarly, novice coaches appeared to accept feedback from non-reliable sources in lieu of more informed sources. A distinctive emerging feature was the lack of formal feedback mechanisms within groups of coaches at all levels of qualification.		[Nash, Christine; Sproule, John] Univ Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Horton, Peter] James Cook Univ, Cairns Inst, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Nash, Christine] Inst Sport PE & Hlth Sci, St Leonards Land,Holyrood Rd, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland								19							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000394964400023	64	Article; Article		
J	Newton, Jacqueline A.; Holmes, Paul S.								Psychological characteristics of champion orienteers: Should they be considered in talent identification and development?								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	1			109	118		10.1177/1747954116684392			FEB 2017	2017	A range of cognitive skills that support the development of sport potential have been suggested to be important for athletes and coaches. This study explored performers' psychological characteristics within orienteers. The psychological skills of World Elite orienteers and athletes in the National Junior Squads of both Great Britain and Switzerland were assessed using the six-factor Psychological Characteristics of Excellence Questionnaire. Data suggested that, as juniors, elite orienteers reported less support for long-term success than the Swiss juniors, perhaps because of the earlier adoption of self-coaching, but were not significantly different from either junior group on all other factors. British juniors were not significantly different from the other two groups on any factor. Follow-up qualitative approaches explored possible reasons for the World Elites' early reliance on self rather than other, the role of the coach and the self-coaching phenomenon. The role of orienteering in developing these skills is also discussed along with unique psychological challenges faced by high performing orienteers.		[Newton, Jacqueline A.; Holmes, Paul S.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Crewe Green Rd, Crewe CW1 5DU, England; [Newton, Jacqueline A.] Manchester Metropolitan Univ, Dept Exercise & Sport Sci, Crewe Green Rd, Crewe CW1 5DU, England								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000394964400025	30	Article; Article		
J	Aoki, Marcelo S.; Arruda, Ademir F. S.; Freitas, Camila G.; Miloski, Bernardo; Marcelino, Pablo R.; Drago, Gustavo; Drago, Murilo; Moreira, Alexandre								Monitoring training loads, mood states, and jump performance over two periodized training mesocycles in elite young volleyball players								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	1			130	137		10.1177/1747954116684394			FEB 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to verify the effect of the periodized training program on internal training load, mood states, and vertical jump capacity of young volleyball players. Internal training load was measured using the session rating of perceived exertion (session-RPE) method. To assess mood states, the profile of mood states questionnaire was completed once a week. The vertical jump tests were performed before and after training period. The main findings were (1) the internal training load was greater during the preparatory mesocycle than during the competitive mesocycle, for both U16 and U19 groups; (2) the U19 completed a higher training load during preparatory mesocycle than U16; (3) despite the differences in the periodized training program, the U16 group presented a higher value for the total mood disturbance and for the subscales, tension, depression, anger, and fatigue; and (4) the vertical jump performance increased from the beginning to the end of the nine-week training period for U16 and U19 groups.		[Aoki, Marcelo S.; Freitas, Camila G.; Miloski, Bernardo; Marcelino, Pablo R.] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Arts Sci & Humanities, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Arruda, Ademir F. S.; Moreira, Alexandre] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Marcelino, Pablo R.; Drago, Gustavo; Drago, Murilo] Integrated Support Ctr Athletes CIAA EC Pinheiro, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Moreira, Alexandre] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Phys Educ & Sport, Dept Sport, Av Prof Mello Moraes,65 Cidade Univ, BR-05508030 Sao Paulo, Brazil								32							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000394964400027	38	Article; Article		
J	Jenkins, Simon P. R.								Beyond "crude pragmatism' in sports coaching: Insights from CS Peirce, William James and John Dewey								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING				12	1			8	19		10.1177/1747954116684028			FEB 2017	2017	There is a lack of clarity in the sports coaching literature about philosophical pragmatism, but the work of Classical Pragmatists such as C.S. Peirce, William James and John Dewey is worthy of attention by both practitioners and researchers. This stimulus article is divided into four sections: Pragmatic Temperament, which includes a discussion of how English Premier League soccer manager Arsene Wenger might be regarded as pragmatic; Communities of Inquiry, which makes reference to a philosophy group at English Premiership rugby union club Saracens; Mixed Methods Research, which examines the use of abduction, deduction and induction in research; and Reflection, which shows how Schon's reflective practice is a reworking of Dewey's theory of inquiry.		[Jenkins, Simon P. R.] Univ Winchester, Dept Sport & Exercise, Winchester SO22 4NR, Hants, England; [Jenkins, Simon P. R.] Univ Winchester, Dept Sport & Exercise, Winchester SO22 4NR, Hants, England								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied	WOS:000394964400002	74	Article; Article		
J	Weaver, Ashley N.; Kerksick, Chad M.								Implementing Landmine Single-Leg Romanian Deadlift into an Athlete's Training Program								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	1			85	90		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000279			FEB 2017	2017	Romanian deadlift (landmine sl rdl) is classified as a unilateral lower-body movement that can beused to build stability, strength, and power throughout an athlete's posterior chain and core. There are currently little to no articles published that discuss the use of landmine exercises. Consequently, the purpose of this article is three-fold to: (a) provide a detailed discussion on how to execute the landmine sl rdl properly, (b) discuss the benefits of this movement, and (c) discuss how coaches and strength and conditioning professio-nals can integrate it into practice.		[Weaver, Ashley N.; Kerksick, Chad M.] Lindenwood Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Human Performance, St Charles, MO 63301 USA; [Weaver, Ashley N.] Lindenwood Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Dept Human Performance, St Charles, MO 63301 USA								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393949300010	6	Article; Article		
J	Healy, Robin; Comyns, Thomas M.								The Application of Postactivation Potentiation Methods to Improve Sprint Speed								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	1			1	9		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000276			FEB 2017	2017	This article examines the application of a variety of modalities to elicit a postactivation potentiation (pap) response in sprinting. We present the existing literature on the acute effects of back squats, power cleans, plyometrics, and sled pulling on sprint distances ranging from 5 to 50 m. We also discuss and provide an example ofhowcoaches can assess the individual effects of pap protocols on their athletes to identify whether a protocol elicits an acute improvement or impairment in performance. Finally, we provide practical recommendations on how coaches can incorporate these methods into a sprint training session.		[Healy, Robin; Comyns, Thomas M.] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland; [Healy, Robin] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sports Sci, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland								42							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393949300001	37	Article; Article		
J	Brady, Claire; Comyns, Thomas; Harrison, Andrew; Warrington, Giles								Focus of Attention for Diagnostic Testing of the Force-Velocity Curve								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	1			57	70		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000271			FEB 2017	2017	Diagnostic testing of various points on the forcevelocity curve, such as maximum strength and running speed tests, is used to identify athletes' strengths and weaknesses. During the implementation of these tests, coaches typically use verbal instructions in an attempt to ensure the athlete achieves the highest result possible. Researchers have shown that optimal motor skill performance is often achieved when verbal instructions direct attention externally. This article reviews the current research on the appropriate attentional focus for tests, which assess aspects of the force-velocity curve. Based on an analysis of the existing scientific literature, practical applications are provided for coaches.		[Brady, Claire; Comyns, Thomas; Harrison, Andrew; Warrington, Giles] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland; [Brady, Claire] Univ Limerick, Dept Phys Educ & Sport Sci, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland								22							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393949300007	37	Article; Article		
J	Suchomel, Timothy J.; Comfort, Paul; Lake, Jason P.								Enhancing the Force-Velocity Profile of Athletes Using Weight - lifting Derivatives								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	1			10	20		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000275			FEB 2017	2017	Weightlifting movements and their derivatives may be implemented in a sequenced progression throughout the training year to optimize the development of an athlete's strength, rate of force development, and power output. Weightlifting movements and their derivatives can be programmed effectively by considering their force-velocity characteristics and physiological underpinnings to meet the specific training goals of resistance training phases in accordance with the typical application of periodized training programs.		[Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA; [Comfort, Paul] Univ Salford, Directorate Sport Exercise & Physiotherapy, Manchester, England; [Lake, Jason P.] Univ Chichester, Dept Sport & Exercise Sci, Chichester, England; [Suchomel, Timothy J.] Carroll Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, Waukesha, WI 53186 USA								115							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393949300002	113	Article; Article		
J	Schoenfeld, Melody L.								Increasing Strength and Power With Gada, Indian Clubs, Bulgarian Bags, and Other Tools of Concentric Strength								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	1			48	56		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000273			FEB 2017	2017	Although implements such as maces and clubs have been used extensively throughout the history of physical culture, there is currently no research on the benefits of these tools. This article connects current research in exercises that have been used successfully to rehabilitate and strengthen the shoulder and the use of the gada, light club, heavy club, and bulgarian bag. Basic movements using the gada, light club, heavy club, and bulgarian bag will also be demonstrated.		[Schoenfeld, Melody L.] Flawless Fitness, Pasadena, CA 91104 USA; [Schoenfeld, Melody L.] Flawless Fitness, Pasadena, CA 91104 USA								4							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393949300006	12	Article; Article		
J	Kavalek, Matthew; Gannon, Ryan; Nelson, Mike T.								A Case for and Against Ketogenic Diets in Athletes								STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING JOURNAL				39	1			27	31		10.1519/SSC.0000000000000269			FEB 2017	2017	The scientific community generally acknowledges the potential benefits of a ketogenic diet (kd) in some clinical and/or medical populations. Although current evidence indicates athletes ranging from gymnasts to elite ultramarathoners may benefit from a kd, much disagreement exists regarding its soundness in athletic and physical performance situations. The following column will present a case for, and against, the use of kd in athletes. We want to hear from you. visit nsca-scj.com to weigh in on the point/counterpoint quick poll.		[Kavalek, Matthew; Gannon, Ryan] New York Med Coll, Valhalla, NY 10595 USA; [Nelson, Mike T.] Globe Univ, Woodbury, MN USA; [Kavalek, Matthew] New York Med Coll, Valhalla, NY 10595 USA								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393949300004	33	Article; Article		
J	Weimar, Daniel; Wicker, Pamela								Moneyball Revisited: Effort and Team Performance in Professional Soccer								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	2			140	161		10.1177/1527002514561789			FEB 2017	2017	In Moneyball, the assumption was made that the baseball labor market undervalues specific player skills. This study investigates whether this is also the case for player effort in professional soccer which had no significant effect on players' market values in previous research. Specifically, it examines the effect of effort on team performance in soccer using team-game day data from three seasons (N = 1,514) of the German Bundesliga. Two effort measures are applied: (1) total distance run and (2) number of intensive runs (>20 km/hr) per player and per match. The results of probit models show that both effort measures have a significant positive effect on whether the observed team won the observed match in separate estimations. In the full model, only the effect of running distance remains positive, while intensive runs become negative. Given the insignificant effect of effort on players' market values in previous research, we suggest that there may be a Moneyball phenomenon in soccer in the sense that the soccer labor market undervalues running distance. The findings imply that decision makers in professional soccer should consult player statistics to a greater extent.		[Weimar, Daniel] Univ Duisburg Essen, Mercator Sch Management, Dept Managerial Econ, Lotharstr 53, D-47057 Duisburg, Germany; [Wicker, Pamela] German Sport Univ Cologne, Dept Sport Econ & Sport Management, Cologne, Germany; [Weimar, Daniel] Univ Duisburg Essen, Mercator Sch Management, Dept Managerial Econ, Lotharstr 53, D-47057 Duisburg, Germany								43							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189500003	44	Article; Article		
J	Abinzano, Isabel; Muga, Luis; Santamaria, Rafael								Behavioral Biases Never Walk Alone: An Empirical Analysis of the Effect of Overconfidence on Probabilities								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	2			99	125		10.1177/1527002514560575			FEB 2017	2017	This article presents evidence of the impact of overconfidence bias in asset prices drawn from a study based on data from tennis betting exchanges. A series of betting strategies in tournaments with a clear-cut favorite are shown to yield significant economic returns. The impact of overconfidence bias on betting odds increases with trading volume, media coverage, and levels of disagreement between overconfident and cumulative prospect theory bettors. Just as in traditional financial markets, arbitrage limits are shown to be a necessary condition for the impact of behavioral biases on prices.		[Abinzano, Isabel; Muga, Luis; Santamaria, Rafael] Univ Publ Navarra, Financial Econ, Pamplona, Spain; [Muga, Luis] Univ Publ Navarra, Edificio Madronos,Campus Arrosadia, Pamplona 31006, Spain								11							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189500001	32	Article; Article		
J	Pu, Haozhou; James, Jeffrey								The distant fan segment Exploring motives and psychological connection of International National Basketball Association fans								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	4			418	438		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2016-0022			2017	2017	Purpose-With the available technological tools, fans are able to access sport products regardless of geographic proximity. Through technology, fans can follow sports teams from other countries. In contrast to previous research focused on the local fan, in this paper we report on a study of a group of distant fans-Chinese National Basketball Association (NBA) fans-as the focal object. The study was guided by three questions: RQ1: what motives drive a distant fan's involvement with their favorite NBA team? RQ2: are there differences in the motives associated with the different stages of psychological connection among distant fans? RQ3: are there differences in the amount of media consumption at the different stages of psychological connection? The paper aims to discuss these issues. Design/methodology/approach-An online survey was distributed to consumers of a Chinese sports message board to assess the motives of distant fans (n = 281) following teams in the NBA, and strength of psychological connection to the NBA based on the psychological continuum model (PCM). Findings-There were significant differences in the motives for following a distant NBA team among the respondents at different stages of psychological connection. Significant differences were also found among Chinese NBA fans at the respective stages regarding media consumption. Originality/value-This study contributes to the advancement of knowledge regarding sport fandom. It is one of the first studies to include an assessment of the sport consumption motives of distant fans, more specifically, motives influencing Chinese fans' consumption of the NBA. Utilizing the PCM allows for the segmentation of a specific fan population and to ascertain whether there are differences in the motives and behaviors associated with different stages of an individual's psychological connection with a team.		[Pu, Haozhou] Univ Dayton, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Dayton, OH 45469 USA; [James, Jeffrey] Florida State Univ, Dept Sport Management, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; [Pu, Haozhou] Univ Dayton, Dept Hlth & Sport Sci, Dayton, OH 45469 USA								51							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000418194400006	73	Article; Article		
J	Biscaia, Rui; Trail, Galen; Ross, Stephen; Yoshida, Masayuki								A model bridging team brand experience and sponsorship brand experience								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	4			380	399		10.1108/IJSMS-07-2016-0038			2017	2017	Purpose-Previous research has focused on the antecedents of fan loyalty or the link between fans and the team on sponsorship reactions, but no comprehensive framework has been developed to combine these perspectives. The purpose of this paper is to present an integrated framework of how team brand experience during the season impacts sponsorship brand experience. Design/methodology/approach-To create the conceptual model, a comprehensive search of peer-reviewed articles was conducted in electronic databases and journal reference lists. The authors identified constructs from prior research aimed at understanding sponsorship effectiveness. These constructs not only included aspects of the sponsorship brand experience, but also aspects within the team brand experience that form the link between consumers' responses derived from team-related stimuli and the responses evoked by sponsor-related stimuli. Findings-This conceptual framework yields a set of 11 propositions regarding fans' interactions with both team and sponsorship brands highlighting how to strengthen the bond between fans, teams, and sponsors. It provides a comprehensive understanding of this phenomenon and identifies opportunities to increase fan support and the appeal of professional teams to potential sponsors. Originality/value-This study extends previous research by providing a unique conceptual framework that highlights the importance of understanding how fans view both the team brand and the sponsor brand. Several suggestions for future studies and strategies to increase the benefits for both teams and sponsors can be drawn from this framework.		[Biscaia, Rui] Coventry Univ, Fac Business & Law, Sch Mkt & Management, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Trail, Galen] Seattle Univ, Coll Arts & Sci Sport Adm & Leadership, Seattle, WA 98122 USA; [Ross, Stephen] Concordia Univ, Sport Management, St Paul, MN USA; [Yoshida, Masayuki] Biwako Seikei Sport Coll, Otsu, Shiga, Japan; [Biscaia, Rui] Coventry Univ, Fac Business & Law, Sch Mkt & Management, Coventry, W Midlands, England								40							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000418194400004	99	Article; Article		
J	Lobpries, Jami; Bennett, Gregg; Brison, Natasha								Mary Ann to her Ginger: comparing the extended brand identity of two elite female athletes								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	4			347	362		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2016-0028			2017	2017	Purpose-The purpose of this paper is to compare the extended brand identities of two elite female athletes. Specifically, this exploratory case study assessed the extended brand identities of Jennie Finch and Cat Osterman, two iconic female softball athlete brands. Design/methodology/approach-Through the qualitative analysis of individual in-depth, semi-structured interviews, various documents, and social media, data revealed themes associated with positioning, personality, and presentation of the female athlete brands. Findings-Theoretically, the themes provide empirical support for existing brand identity frameworks. Practical implications-Practically, findings provide evidence for defining an athlete's extended brand identity that can serve as the foundation for branding efforts that generate long-term value during and after their sport careers. Originality/value-This case study adds to the extant literature on athlete branding and offers practical content for marketers seeking to brand female athletes.		[Lobpries, Jami] US Specialty Sports Assoc, Viera, FL USA; [Bennett, Gregg] Texas A&M Univ, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Brison, Natasha] Texas A&M Univ, Sport Management, College Stn, TX USA; [Bennett, Gregg] Texas A&M Univ, College Stn, TX 77843 USA								14							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000418194400002	73	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Dongfeng; Hautbois, Christopher; Desbordes, Michel								The expected social impact of the Winter Olympic Games and the attitudes of non-host residents toward bidding The Beijing 2022 bid case study								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	4			330	346		10.1108/IJSMS-11-2017-099			2017	2017	Purpose-Using Beijing's bid for the 2022 Winter Olympic Games as an example, the purpose of this paper is to explore the expected social impact of mega-sporting events, as perceived by non-host city residents, and the way in which this perception affects attitudes toward bidding. Design/methodology/approach-An empirical survey study was conducted in which data were collected from residents in Shanghai, comprising a sample of 483 respondents. An exploratory factor analysis identified 40 items loaded on eight distinctive factors that underlie the expected social impact of the 2022 Winter Olympic Games. A multiple regression analysis was conducted to determine the effect of the perceived impact on residents' attitudes toward the bid to host the Olympics. Findings-Among the eight identified impact factors, six were found to be positive and two negative. While all factors were significantly higher above the point of indifference, perceived positive impact factors tended to outweigh those that were negative. In addition, seven out of the eight factors were found to be significantly predictive of support for Beijing's bidding: while the effect of "tourism and environment," "social capital and psychic income," "international cooperation and exchange," "infrastructure," "national image," and "sport development" was positive, the effect of the " higher living cost" factor was negative with regard to the support of the bidding. This study seeks to contribute by taking a non-host community perspective. Originality/value-A growing body of literature has documented perspectives on events and their specific timing during event cycles, i.e., during the bidding stage. In addition, it also offers insight into the perception and attitudes of citizens from emerging markets toward event bidding and hosting, both of which play an increasingly important role in global sports but, on the whole, remain relatively under researched.		[Liu, Dongfeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Sport Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Hautbois, Christopher; Desbordes, Michel] Univ Paris Saclay, Univ Paris Sud, CIAMS, Orsay, France; [Hautbois, Christopher; Desbordes, Michel] Univ Orleans, CIAMS, Orleans, France; [Liu, Dongfeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Sport Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China								16							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000418194400001	66	Article; Article		
J	Trinidad Morales-Belando, Maria; Arias-Estero, Jose L.								Effect of Teaching Races for Understanding in Youth Sailing on Performance, Knowledge, and Adherence								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	4			513	523		10.1080/02701367.2017.1376032			2017	2017	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to know whether an intervention using an adaptation of the teaching games for understanding approach (named teaching races for understanding [TRfU]) led participants to improve skill execution, decision making, race performance, race involvement, race knowledge, enjoyment, intention to continue practicing sailing, and perceived competence. Method: Participants were 67 children from a randomly selected sailing school (M-age = 9.32 years, SD = 2.60 years) and 2 coaches. We designed and validated the TRfU lessons, and 1 coach was trained in the approach. The TRfU group participated in 11 lessons. This study followed a mixed-methods data approach. Quantitative data were evaluated using a quasiexperimental pretest-posttest design with a control group. The intervention consisted of teaching sailing using the TRfU approach. Children and coaches' perceptions were evaluated through an interview on completion of the study. Data were collected using an adaptation of the Game Performance Assessment Instrument, a knowledge questionnaire, 2 psychological scales, and interviews with children and coaches. Results: The TRfU group showed statistically significant improvements in skill execution, decision making, and race performance compared with the control group, as well as significant improvements in race involvement, race knowledge, and enjoyment (ES = 0.64-2.63). Conclusion: Teaching races for understanding can be used in sailing to improve students' capacity to reflect and connect theoretical knowledge with their motor performance in the race.		[Trinidad Morales-Belando, Maria; Arias-Estero, Jose L.] UCAM Univ Catolica San Antonio Murcia, Murcia, Spain; [Trinidad Morales-Belando, Maria] UCAM Univ Catolica San Antonio Murcia, Dept Phys Act & Sport Sci, Av Jeronimos 135, Murcia 30107, Spain								18							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416537900014	33	Article; Article		
J	Hutt, Rachel L.; Moore, Ginger A.; Mammen, Micah A.; Downs, Danielle Symons								Postpartum Mothers' Leisure-Time Exercise Behavior is Linked to Positive Emotion During Partner Discussions								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	4			447	454		10.1080/02701367.2017.1375450			2017	2017	Purpose: Marital dissatisfaction and conflict often increase for couples after the birth of a child and are evident in fewer positive family interactions and more negative family interactions. Because exercise is known to increase positive emotions and decrease negative emotions, the current study examined the extent to which higher levels of mothers' exercise during the postpartum period were related to more positive and fewer negative emotion-expressive behaviors with their infants' fathers. Method: Mothers' (N = 46; M = 8 months postpartum) positive and negative expressive behaviors were coded during couples' discussions of current conflict and positive family experiences. Mothers self-reported their leisure-time exercise behavior. Results: First-time mothers and mothers with higher levels of leisure-time exercise behavior displayed higher levels of positive expressive behaviors during couples' discussions. Conclusions: Exercise may be associated with increased positive emotion and, in turn, can have great potential to improve family relationships during the postpartum period when marital stress normatively increases, particularly for mothers with more than 1 child. Future longitudinal studies are needed to understand exercise patterns across the postpartumperiod to identify the most effective timing and optimal level of exercise that lead to more positive expressive behaviors.		[Hutt, Rachel L.] MindWell Psychol NYC PLLC, 80 8th Ave,Suite 711, New York, NY 10011 USA; [Moore, Ginger A.; Mammen, Micah A.; Downs, Danielle Symons] Penn State Univ, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [Hutt, Rachel L.] MindWell Psychol NYC PLLC, 80 8th Ave,Suite 711, New York, NY 10011 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416537900008	34	Article; Article		
J	Smith, Lee; van Jaarsveld, Cornelia H. M.; Llewellyn, Clare H.; Fildes, Alison; Lopez Sanchez, Guillermo Felipe; Wardle, Jane; Fisher, Abigail								Genetic and Environmental Influences on Developmental Milestones and Movement: Results From the Gemini Cohort Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	4			401	407		10.1080/02701367.2017.1373268			2017	2017	Purpose: Variability in the timing of infant developmental milestones is poorly understood. We used a twin analysis to estimate genetic and environmental influences on motor development and activity levels in infancy. Method: Data were from the Gemini Study, a twin birth cohort of 2,402 families with twins born in the United Kingdom in 2007. Parents reported motor activity level for each of the twins at age 3 months using the Revised Infant Behavior Rating Scale and reported the ages at which they first sat unsupported, crawled, and walked unaided. Results: Activity level at 3 months and ages when first sitting and crawling were about equally influenced by the shared family environment (45%-54%) and genes (45%-48%). Genetic influences dominated for age when children took their first independent steps (84%). Conclusion: Aspects of the shared family environment appear to be important influences on motor activity levels and early milestones, although the timing of walking may have a stronger genetic influence. Further research to identify the specific environmental and genetic factors that promote early activity may be important for longer-term health outcomes.		[Smith, Lee] Anglia Ruskin Univ, Cambridge, England; [van Jaarsveld, Cornelia H. M.] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Med Ctr, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Llewellyn, Clare H.; Fildes, Alison; Wardle, Jane; Fisher, Abigail] UCL, London, England; [Lopez Sanchez, Guillermo Felipe] Univ Murcia, Murcia, Spain; [Fisher, Abigail] UCL, Dept Epidemiol & Publ Hlth, Gower St, London WC1E 6BT, England								12							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416537900004	32	Article; Article		
J	Haegele, Justin A.; Zhu, Xihe								Experiences of Individuals With Visual Impairments in Integrated Physical Education: A Retrospective Study								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	4			425	435		10.1080/02701367.2017.1346781			2017	2017	Purpose: The purpose of this retrospective study was to examine the experiences of adults with visual impairments during school-based integrated physical education (PE). Method: An interpretative phenomenological analysis (IPA) research approach was used and 16 adults (ages 21-48 years; 10 women, 6 men) with visual impairments acted as participants for this study. The primary sources of data were semistructured audiotaped telephone interviews and reflective field notes, which were recorded during and immediately following each interview. Thematic development was undertaken utilizing a 3-step analytical process guided by IPA. Results: Based on the data analysis, 3 interrelated themes emerged from the participant transcripts: (a) feelings about "being put to the side," frustration and inadequacy; (b) "She is blind, she can't do it," debilitating feelings from physical educators' attitudes; and (c) "not self-esteem raising," feelings about peer interactions. The 1st theme described the participants' experiences and ascribed meaning to exclusionary practices. The 2nd theme described the participants' frustration over being treated differently by their PE teachers because of their visual impairments. Lastly, "not self-esteem raising," feelings about peer interactions demonstrated how participants felt about issues regarding challenging social situations with peers in PE. Conclusions: Utilizing an IPA approach, the researchers uncovered 3 interrelated themes that depicted central feelings, experiences, and reflections, which informed the meaning of the participants' PE experiences. The emerged themes provide unique insight into the embodied experiences of those with visual impairments in PE and fill a previous gap in the extant literature.		[Haegele, Justin A.; Zhu, Xihe] Old Dominion Univ, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA; [Haegele, Justin A.] Old Dominion Univ, Dept Human Movement Sci, 2009 Student Recreat Ctr, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA								93							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416537900006	36	Article; Article		
J	Brian, Ali; Goodway, Jacqueline D.; Logan, Jessica A.; Sutherland, Sue								SKIPing With Head Start Teachers: Influence of T-SKIP on Object-Control Skills								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	4			479	491		10.1080/02701367.2017.1375077			2017	2017	Purpose: Children from disadvantaged settings are at risk for delays in their object-control (OC) skills. Fundamental motor skill interventions, such as the Successful Kinesthetic Instruction for Preschoolers (SKIP) Program, are highly successful when led by motor development experts. However, few preschools employ such experts. This study examined the extent to which Head Start teachers delivering an 8-week teacher-led SKIP (T-SKIP) intervention elicited learning of OC skills for Head Start children. Method: Head Start teachers (n = 5) delivered T-SKIP for 8 weeks (450 min). Control teachers (n = 5) implemented the typical standard of practice, or well-equipped free play. All children (N = 122) were pretested and posttested on the OC Skill subscale of the Test of Gross Motor Development-2. Results: Descriptive analyses at pretest identified 81% of the children were developmentally delayed in OC skills (below the 30th percentile). A 2-level hierarchical linear model demonstrated the effectiveness of T-SKIP with significant differences (beta = 4.70), t(8) = 7.02, p < .001, eta 2 = .56, between T-SKIP children (n = 63) and control children (n = 59) at posttest. Conclusion: Head Start teachers who delivered T-SKIP could bring about positive changes in children's OC skills, thereby remediating the initial developmental delays presented. Control children remained delayed in their OC skills in spite of daily well-equipped free play, giving rise to concerns about their future motor competence and physical activity levels.		[Brian, Ali] Univ South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA; [Goodway, Jacqueline D.; Logan, Jessica A.; Sutherland, Sue] Ohio State Univ, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Brian, Ali] Univ South Carolina, Dept Phys Educ, 1300 Wheat St, Columbia, SC 29208 USA								54							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416537900011	39	Article; Article		
J	Donoso-Morales, Daniela; Bloom, Gordon A.; Caron, Jeffrey G.								Creating and Sustaining a Culture of Excellence: Insights From Accomplished University Team-Sport Coaches								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	4			503	512		10.1080/02701367.2017.1370531			2017	2017	Purpose: Winning several national championships is an extraordinary feat that very few university coaches have accomplished. The objective of this study was to investigate how some of Canada's most accomplished university team-sport coaches created and sustained a culture of excellence in their programs. Method: Six university coaches who had won more than 30 national titles participated in this study. Each coach participated in a semistructured interview, and the qualitative data were inductively analyzed using a thematic analysis. Results: The coaches noted that hard work and daily attention to detail, effective emotional management of themselves and their athletes, and continuous self-assessment (self-reflection and seeking mentors) were crucial elements that led to sustained excellence in their programs. Conclusions: This study offers one of the first empirical accounts of how highly successful university coaches developed and maintained a culture of excellence and success in their high-performance sport setting.		[Donoso-Morales, Daniela; Bloom, Gordon A.; Caron, Jeffrey G.] McGill Univ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Bloom, Gordon A.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, 475 Pine Ave West, Montreal, PQ H2W 1S4, Canada								32							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416537900013	34	Article; Article		
J	Kahan, David; McKenzie, Thomas L.								Extracurricular Physical Activity Programs in California Private Secondary Schools								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	4			524	529		10.1080/02701367.2017.1370073			2017	2017	Purpose: Interscholastic, intramural, and club physical activity (PA) programs can be important contributors to student PA accrual at schools. Few studies have assessed factors related to the provision of these extracurricular PA programs, especially in private schools. Methods: We used a 16-item questionnaire to assess the associations and influences of selected factors relative to extracurricular PA program policies and practices in 450 private California secondary schools. Associations were evaluated using contingency table analyses (i.e., chi-squared, effect size, and post-hoc analyses). Results: Six factors were associated with schools providing extracurricular PA programs: school location, level, enrollment, and religious classification and whether the physical education (PE) program met state PE time standards and was taught by PE specialists. Conclusions: Both static factors (e.g., school location, level, enrollment, and religious affiliation) and modifiable factors (e.g., meeting PE standards and employing specialists) affect the provision of extracurricular PA programs. As education is state-mandated, additional study is recommended to assess the generalizability of these findings to other states and to public schools.		[Kahan, David; McKenzie, Thomas L.] San Diego State Univ, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Kahan, David] San Diego State Univ, Sch Exercise & Nutr Sci, 5500 Campanile Dr,ENS Bldg 315, San Diego, CA 92182 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416537900015	29	Article; Article		
J	Berei, Catherine P.; Pratt, Erica; Parker, Melissa; Shephard, Kevin; Liang, Tanjian; Nampai, Udon; Neamphoka, Guntima								Guideposts and Roadblocks to the Career-Long Scholarly Engagement of Physical Education Teacher Education Faculty								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	4			455	467		10.1080/02701367.2017.1360986			2017	2017	Purpose: Scholarship is essential for the growth and development of the physical education field. Over time, scholarship expectations have changed, forcing faculty members to alter time spent for research, teaching, and service. Social-cognitive career theory (SCCT) presents a model for understanding performance and persistence in an occupational environment. The interconnected aspects of SCCT have different emphasis related to self-efficacy, outcome expectations, or personal goals pursuit. This study explored physical education teacher education (PETE) faculty members' continuing engagement in scholarly activity through SCCT. Method: Data collection included interviews with 9 senior PETE faculty members who met the criteria for "productive scholars over time." Curriculum vitae were collected to verify productivity. Results: Data analysis revealed guidepost themes that included collaborating, finding balance, defining a research process, and maintaining a strong work ethic. Roadblocks encountered included other obligations and lack of support for research. Conclusions: Participants demonstrated strong self-efficacy; held high, positive expectations for success; and set very specific, clear, and deliberate goals. Participant behavior was moderated by their personal attributes (capacity to build relationships, set goals, and maintain interest and passion) and was tempered by the environments in which they worked. Fostering similar behaviors has the potential to guide future and current PETE faculty members in creating supportive and encouraging atmospheres for sustained productivity. The lack of literature relating to this topic warrants the need for more research exploring the influential factors and benefits gained from sustained scholarly productivity over time for PETE faculty members.		[Berei, Catherine P.] Southern Connecticut State Univ, New Haven, CT 06515 USA; [Pratt, Erica] State Univ New York Cortland, Cortland, NY USA; [Parker, Melissa] Univ Limerick, Limerick, Ireland; [Liang, Tanjian] Cent Washington Univ, Ellensburg, WA USA; [Nampai, Udon] Thai Int Sch, Ban Klang, Thailand; [Neamphoka, Guntima] Kasetsart Univ, Bangkok, Thailand; [Berei, Catherine P.] Southern Connecticut State Univ, Exercise Sci Dept, 501 Crescent St Pelz 002a, New Haven, CT 06515 USA								2							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416537900009	34	Article; Article		
J	Bjelakovic, Ljiljana; Vukovic, Vladimir; Jovic, Marko; Bankovic, Sanja; Kostic, Tomislav; Radovanovic, Dragan; Pantelic, Sasa; Zivkovic, Mladen; Stojanovic, Sanja; Bjelakovic, Bojko								Heart rate recovery time in metabolically healthy and metabolically unhealthy obese children								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	4			438	442		10.1080/00913847.2017.1376571			2017	2017	Background: Autonomic dysfunction is an emerging non-traditional cardiovascular risk factor that correlates with obesity, components of metabolic syndrome, as well as cardiorespiratory fitness. As a simple and validated index of autonomic balance, heart rate recovery (HRR) has been reported as a useful biomarker for predicting cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.Objectives: The aim of this study was to compare HRR in metabolically healthy vs. metabolically unhealthy obese children.Methods: A total of 56 obese children of whom 31 had metabolic syndrome were examined. All the participants underwent the multistage submaximal cycle ergometer test and HRR was determined one minute after the test.Results: The HRR was significantly lower (18.93.7) in a group of metabolically unhealthy obese children compared to metabolically healthy obese children (24 +/- 4.1) p<0.001. Logistic regression analysis showed that reduction in HRR was also influenced by higher BMI.Conclusion: Our findings implicate the presence of the autonomic dysfunction as reflected by impaired heart rate recovery (HRR) in obese children with metabolic syndrome.		[Bjelakovic, Ljiljana; Radovanovic, Dragan] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Dept Med Sci, Nish, Serbia; [Vukovic, Vladimir] Univ Cattolica Sacro Cuore, Dept Mol Med, Rome, Italy; [Jovic, Marko; Bankovic, Sanja; Kostic, Tomislav; Bjelakovic, Bojko] Univ Nis, Med Fac, Nish, Serbia; [Kostic, Tomislav] Clin Ctr Nis, Clin Cardiol, Nish, Serbia; [Pantelic, Sasa; Zivkovic, Mladen] Univ Nis, Fac Sport & Phys Educ, Nish, Serbia; [Stojanovic, Sanja] Univ Nis, Inst Cardiol, Med Fac, Nish, Serbia; [Bjelakovic, Bojko] Clin Ctr, Clin Pediat, Nis Zorana Djindjica 48 Blvd, Nish 18000, Serbia; [Bjelakovic, Bojko] Clin Ctr, Clin Pediat, Nis Zorana Djindjica 48 Blvd, Nish 18000, Serbia								10							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415966600012	37	Article; Article		
J	Degen, Ryan M.; Cancienne, Jourdan M.; Camp, Christopher L.; Altchek, David W.; Dines, Joshua S.; Werner, Brian C.								Patient-related risk factors for requiring surgical intervention following a failed injection for the treatment of medial and lateral epicondylitis								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	4			433	437		10.1080/00913847.2017.1374811			2017	2017	Objectives: To identify risk factors for failure of a therapeutic injection leading to operative management of both medial and lateral epicondylitis.Methods: A national database was used to query Medicare Standard Analytic Files from 2005-2012 for patients treated with therapeutic injections for medial or lateral epicondylitis using CPT codes for injections associated with corresponding ICD-9 diagnostic codes (726.31 and 726.32, respectively). Those who subsequently underwent surgical treatment following injection were identified. A multivariate binomial logistic regression analysis was utilized to evaluate patient-related risk factors for requiring surgery within 2years after therapeutic injection.Results: 1,837 patients received therapeutic injections for medial epicondylitis. 52 (2.8%) required ipsilateral surgery at a mean of 42928days post-injection. Risk factors for requiring surgical intervention included age<65, obesity, and morbid obesity. 6,561 patients received therapeutic injections for lateral epicondylitis. 201 (3.1%) required subsequent surgery at a mean of 383 +/- 128days' post-injection. Risk factors included age<65, tobacco use, diabetes mellitus and peripheral vascular disease.Conclusion: The incidence of surgical intervention following a failed therapeutic injection for medial or lateral epicondylitis is low (similar to 3%). Risk factors for failing a therapeutic injection include age<65years and obesity (BMI>30) for medial epicondylitis and age<65years, smoking, diabetes mellitus and peripheral vascular disease for lateral epicondylitis. Patients with these identified risk factors presenting with medial or lateral epicondylitis should be cautioned that they carry a higher risk of subsequent surgical treatment. Level of Evidence: Therapeutic, III.		[Degen, Ryan M.; Camp, Christopher L.; Altchek, David W.; Dines, Joshua S.] Hosp Special Surg, Sports Med & Shoulder Surg, 535 E 70th St, New York, NY 10021 USA; [Cancienne, Jourdan M.; Werner, Brian C.] Univ Virginia Hlth Syst, Dept Orthoped Surg, 400 Ray C Hunt Dr, Charlottesville, VA 22901 USA; [Degen, Ryan M.] Western Univ, Fowler Kennedy Sport Med Clin, London, ON, Canada; [Camp, Christopher L.] Mayo Clin & Mayo Fdn, Ctr Sports Med, 200 1st St SW, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Werner, Brian C.] Univ Virginia Hlth Syst, Dept Orthoped Surg, 400 Ray C Hunt Dr, Charlottesville, VA 22901 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415966600011	30	Article; Article		
J	Zaleski, Amanda L.; Taylor, Beth A.; Pescatello, Linda S.; Thompson, Paul D.; Denegar, Craig								Performance of wells score to predict deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in endurance athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	4			358	364		10.1080/00913847.2017.1355210			2017	2017	Introduction: There are an increasing number of reports describing deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and/or pulmonary embolism (PE) in otherwise healthy endurance athletes. The Wells score is the most commonly used clinical prediction rule to diagnose DVT/PE in clinical populations. However, the Wells score may have limited utility for recognition of DVT/PE in athletes, contributing to missed or delayed diagnosis.Objective: We performed an analysis of the ability of the Wells score to identify DVT/PE events in athletes through a review of published case reports.Methods: A systematic search of the literature yielded 11 case reports.Results: The Wells score had a 100% failure rate in identifying athletes with DVT (0/6) and PE (0/5), resulting in a delayed diagnosis for DVT of 2014days. Retrospectively removing differential diagnosis' from the clinical prediction rule for DVT changed the Wells score median from 0 (range: -1 to 0) to 2 (range: 1 to 2); the threshold for predicting DVT as likely'. There were limited clinical characteristics captured in the Wells score for PE that were applicable to athletes, highlighting the need for reappraisal. Although the Wells score failed to accurately triage athletes with known DVT and/or PE, the addition of a D-dimer value (mean: 1566 +/- 758ng/dL) to the Wells score correctly identified 9/9 athletes.Conclusions: The Wells score had a 100% failure rate for triaging athletes with known DVT/PE. When performed, D-dimer adequately facilitated the additional diagnostic testing required for a timely diagnosis of DVT/PE in athletes. Improving awareness of an atypical presentation of thrombotic events in athletes may reduce the widespread underestimation of DVT/PE among athletes and facilitate the additional testing required for a timely diagnosis.		[Zaleski, Amanda L.; Taylor, Beth A.; Pescatello, Linda S.; Denegar, Craig] Univ Connecticut, Dept Kinesiol, Storrs, CT USA; [Zaleski, Amanda L.; Taylor, Beth A.; Thompson, Paul D.] Hartford Hosp, Henry Low Heart Ctr, Dept Cardiol, Hartford, CT 06115 USA; [Zaleski, Amanda L.] Hartford Hosp, Henry Low Heart Ctr, 85 Jefferson St, Hartford, CT 06102 USA								7							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415966600002	37	Article; Article		
J	Benito, Pedro J.; Cupeiro, Rocio; Peinado, Ana B.; Rojo, Miguel A.; Maffulli, Nicola		PRONAF Study Group						Influence of previous body mass index and sex on regional fat changes in a weight loss intervention								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	4			450	457		10.1080/00913847.2017.1380500			2017	2017	Objectives: Men and women may lose weight in a different fashion. This study compares the changes in different anatomical regions after a well-controlled weight loss program by sex and initial BMI.Methods: A total of 180 subjects (48 overweight women, 36 overweight men, and 48 obese women and 48 obese men) were recruited to participate in a 22-week weight loss programme (diet + exercise).Results: Regarding percentage body weight change from baseline, there was no triple interaction (BMI, sex and anatomical region), but there was interaction between BMI and anatomical region (F2,840=34.5; p<0.001), and between sex and anatomical region (F2,840=98.8; p<0.001). Usually, the arms and legs are the regions that lose more weight in obese participants, but men lose the highest percentage of mass from the trunk. There were differences between men and women for the areas of left trunk mass (750g), right trunk mass (700g), total mass of the trunk (1400g), android mass (350g), and finally in the total mass in overweight participants (1300g), with higher values for men than for women. The region that loses more weight and fat is the trunk, followed by the legs, and then the arms, when the loss is observed in function of the total weight or fat lost.Conclusion: Both BMI and sex exert a definite influence fat loss, especially in some anatomical regions.		[Benito, Pedro J.; Cupeiro, Rocio; Peinado, Ana B.; Rojo, Miguel A.] Univ Politecn Madrid, Fac Phys Activ & Sport Sci INEF, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, LFE Res Grp, Madrid, Spain; [Maffulli, Nicola] Univ Salerno, Sch Med & Surg, Dept Musculoskeletal Disorders, Salerno, Italy; [Maffulli, Nicola] Queen Mary Univ London, Mile End Hosp, Ctr Sport & Exercise Med, London, England; [Benito, Pedro J.] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, C Martin Fierro 7, E-28040 Madrid, Spain								4							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415966600014	36	Article; Article		
J	Schuring, Nannet; Kerkhoffs, Gino; Gray, Janine; Gouttebarge, Vincent								The mental wellbeing of current and retired professional cricketers: an observational prospective cohort study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	4			463	469		10.1080/00913847.2017.1386069			2017	2017	Objective: Scientific knowledge about symptoms of common mental disorders in professional cricket is non-existent. Consequently, the aims of the study were to determine the prevalence and the 6months incidence of symptoms of common mental disorders (CMD: distress, anxiety/depression, sleep disturbance, adverse alcohol use) among current and former professional cricketers and to explore the association of potential stressors (significant injury, surgery, adverse life events, career dissatisfaction) and CMD.Methods: An observational prospective cohort study with a follow-up period of 6months was conducted among current and former professional cricketers from South Africa. Using validated questionnaires to assess symptoms of common mental disorders as well as several stressors, an electronic questionnaire was set up and distributed by the South African Cricketers Association (SACA).Results: A total of 116 participants enrolled at baseline (overall response rate of 33%) and 76 of those participants completed the 6month follow-up (follow up rate of 66%). The prevalence of symptoms of CMD in current professional cricketers was 38% for distress, 38% for sleep disturbance, 37% for anxiety/depression and 26% for adverse alcohol use. Among former professional cricketers, baseline prevalence as was 26% for distress, 24% for anxiety/depression, 21% for sleep disturbance and 22% for adverse alcohol use. Career dissatisfaction led to an increased risk of distress, anxiety/depression and sleep disturbance in current professional cricketers. Surgeries and adverse life events led to an increase in reported symptoms of distress and anxiety/depression in current professional cricketers.Conclusions: It was concluded that symptoms of CMD are prevalent in both current and former professional cricketers and the association with surgery, adverse life events and cricket career dissatisfaction may provide some insight into possible mechanisms.		[Schuring, Nannet; Kerkhoffs, Gino; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Acad Med Ctr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Schuring, Nannet; Kerkhoffs, Gino; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Acad Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kerkhoffs, Gino; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Med Ctr, Acad Med Ctr, ACHSS, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gray, Janine; Gouttebarge, Vincent] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Gray, Janine] CSA, Johannesburg, South Africa; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Acad Med Ctr, Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands								45							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415966600016	39	Article; Article		
J	Predel, Hans-Georg; Connolly, Mark P.; Bhatt, Aomesh; Giannetti, Bruno								Efficacy and safety assessment of acute sports-related traumatic soft tissue injuries using a new ibuprofen medicated plaster: results from a randomized controlled clinical trial								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	4			418	425		10.1080/00913847.2017.1382305			2017	2017	Objective: To investigate the efficacy and safety of a recently developed ibuprofen medicated plaster in the treatment of acute sports impact injuries/contusions.Methods: In this double-blind, multi-center, placebo-controlled, parallel group, phase 3 study (EudraCT Number: 2012-003257-2) patients (n=132; ages 18 to 60years) diagnosed with acute sports-related traumatic blunt soft tissue injury/contusion to the upper or lower limbs were randomized to receive either ibuprofen 200mg plaster (n=64) or placebo plaster (n=68). Plasters were administered once daily for five consecutive days. The primary assessment was the area under the curve (AUC) of the visual analogue scale (VAS) of pain on movement (POM) over 0 to 72h (VAS(0-72)).Results: The ibuprofen medicated plaster was associated with a reduction in pain on movement (POM) based on lower VAS AUC(0-72h) (2399.4mm*h) compared with placebo (4078.9mm*h) (least squares mean difference: - 1679.5mm*h; P<0.0001). The reduction in AUC of POM was also significantly greater for the ibuprofen medicated plaster compared with placebo at 12, 48, 24, and 120h (P<0.0001). Algometry/tenderness measurements found that the ibuprofen medicated plaster was associated with greater reduction in tenderness/pain than placebo at each timepoint (P values <0.0001). Seven patients experienced drug-related adverse events (n=1 [1.6%] for the ibuprofen plaster, and n=6 [8.8%] for placebo). All drug-related AEs were administration site reactions and were mild in intensity.Conclusions: The results of this study indicate that ibuprofen medicated plaster results in rapid and clinically relevant reduction of pain in patients suffering from blunt musculoskeletal injuries or recurrent pain. The ibuprofen medicated plaster was well tolerated.		[Predel, Hans-Georg] Deutsch Sport Hsch Koln, Dept Prevent & Rehabilitat Sports & Performance M, Cologne, Germany; [Connolly, Mark P.] Global Market Access Solut, Dept Hlth Econ, St Prex, Switzerland; [Connolly, Mark P.] Univ Groningen, Unit Pharmacoepidemiol & Pharmacoecon, Dept Pharm, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands; [Bhatt, Aomesh] R&D Reckitt Benckiser, Med Affairs & Clin Res, Slough, Berks, England; [Giannetti, Bruno] Clinsearch GmbH, Dept Biostat, Zug, Switzerland; [Connolly, Mark P.] Univ Groningen, Unit Pharmacoepidemiol & Pharmacoecon, Dept Pharm, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415966600009	24	Article; Article		
J	Gouttebarge, Vincent; Jonkers, Ruud; Moen, Maarten; Verhagen, Evert; Wylleman, Paul; Kerkhoffs, Gino								A prospective cohort study on symptoms of common mental disorders among Dutch elite athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	4			426	432		10.1080/00913847.2017.1370987			2017	2017	Objective: Scientific knowledge about symptoms of common mental disorders in elite sports is scarce. Consequently, the objectives of the study were to (i) establish the 12-month incidence of symptoms of common mental disorders (CMD; distress, anxiety/depression, sleep disturbance, adverse alcohol use, eating disorders) among Dutch elite athletes and (ii) explore their potential association with several stressors (being injured, recent life events, career dissatisfaction).Methods: A prospective cohort study with a 12-month follow-up period was conducted. The study used validated questionnaires to assess symptoms of common mental disorders (thus not clinically diagnosed) as well as several stressors; an electronic questionnaire was set up and repeatedly distributed.Results: A total of 203 elite athletes gave their written informed consent to participate in the study, from which 143 completed the 12-month follow-up period (follow-up rate of 70%). Incidence of symptoms of CMD ranged from 6% for adverse alcohol use to 57% for symptoms of anxiety/depression. Over the follow-up period, around 17% of the participants reported two simultaneous symptoms of CMD, and around 19% reported three simultaneous symptoms of CMD. Inferences between some stressors and symptoms of CMD were found but none of the associations were statistically significant.Conclusions: Substantial 12-month incidence rates of symptoms of CMD (self-reported and not clinically diagnosed) were found among Dutch elite athletes (especially for anxiety/depression), appearing similar to the ones found among athletes from other sports disciplines and the Dutch general population. Also, inferences between some stressors and symptoms of CMD were found but none of the associations were statistically significant. Supportive and preventive measures directed towards symptoms of CMD should be developed to improve awareness and psychological resilience of athletes, which would likely improve their performance and quality-of-life.		[Gouttebarge, Vincent; Kerkhoffs, Gino] Acad Med Ctr, Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent; Verhagen, Evert; Kerkhoffs, Gino] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Med Ctr, Acad Med Ctr, Amsterdam Collaborat Hlth & Safety Sports, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent; Kerkhoffs, Gino] Acad Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent; Verhagen, Evert] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Jonkers, Ruud] DWJ Partners, Uithoorn, Netherlands; [Moen, Maarten; Wylleman, Paul] NOC NSF, Elite Sports Dept, Arnhem, Netherlands; [Moen, Maarten] Onze Lieve Vrouw Gasthuis, Sportsphys Grp, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Verhagen, Evert] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Med Ctr, Dept Publ & Occupat Hlth, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Verhagen, Evert] Vrije Univ Amsterdam, Med Ctr, EMGO Inst, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Verhagen, Evert] Federat Univ Australia, Australian Ctr Res Injury Sport & Its Prevent ACR, Ballarat, Vic, Australia; [Wylleman, Paul] Vrije Univ Brussel, Dept Sports Policy & Management, Brussels, Belgium; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Acad Med Ctr, Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands								26							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415966600010	29	Article; Article		
J	Zalneraitis, Brian H.; Yengo-Kahn, Aaron M.; Pawlukiewicz, Alec J.; Solomon, Gary S.								Self-reported history of seizure and baseline neurocognitive test performance in student-athletes: an initial investigation								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	4			470	474		10.1080/00913847.2017.1372035			2017	2017	Objectives: Baseline neurocognitive assessment data can be critical in return to play (RTP) decision-making following a sport-related concussion (SRC). The literature indicates that many modifying factors of SRC have been studied empirically; however, there has been little investigation into the effect of a self-reported history of seizure(s) on baseline neurocognitive test data. The objective of this investigation was to determine whether a self-reported history of seizure(s) is associated with differences in baseline Immediate Post-Concussion Assessment and Cognitive Testing (ImPACT) performance.Methods: A retrospective analysis of 18,245 adolescent and young adult athletes' ImPACT scores was performed. After application of inclusion and exclusion criteria, 7,391 participants were dichotomized into groups based on the presence or absence of a self-reported history of seizure. Participants reporting a history of seizure (n = 60) were matched on multiple variables in a 1:3 ratio with controls (n = 180) without a history of self-reported seizure. Baseline ImPACT composite scores were then compared between groups using either a 2-tailed t-test or a Mann-Whitney U-Test.Results: A significant between-group difference was observed in ImPACT visual motor speed composite scores (35.28 vs. 37.64, p = 0.029, Hedge's g = 0.327), with the group self-reporting a history of seizure performing at inferior average scores. No significant between-group differences were detected in verbal memory, visual memory, reaction time, impulse control, or total symptom scores.Conclusion: Athletes with a history of self-reported seizure scored significantly lower on ImPACT visual motor speed compared to matched controls. As a solitary finding with a small effect size, the clinical significance of this difference is unclear. Apart from the decrease in visual-motor speed, this preliminary analysis suggests that athletes with a history of seizure might not have significantly different neurocognitive baseline test scores when compared with matched controls. Further empirical investigation is warranted to determine if a history of seizure is a modifying factor for SRC.		[Zalneraitis, Brian H.; Yengo-Kahn, Aaron M.; Pawlukiewicz, Alec J.; Solomon, Gary S.] Vanderbilt Univ, Sch Med, Vanderbilt Sports Concuss Ctr, 1500 21st Ave S,Suite 1506, Nashville, TN 37232 USA; [Yengo-Kahn, Aaron M.; Solomon, Gary S.] Vanderbilt Univ, Sch Med, Dept Neurol Surg, Nashville, TN 37212 USA; [Zalneraitis, Brian H.] Vanderbilt Univ, Sch Med, Vanderbilt Sports Concuss Ctr, 1500 21st Ave S,Suite 1506, Nashville, TN 37232 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415966600017	31	Article; Article		
J	Sarac, Nikolas; Haynes, William; Pedroza, Angela; Kaeding, Christopher; Borchers, James								Lifetime prevalence of injuries in incoming division I collegiate football players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	4			458	462		10.1080/00913847.2017.1386068			2017	2017	Objectives: The purpose of this study is to determine the lifetime prevalence of past injuries in incoming first year football players in a Division 1 college football team.Methods: Pre-participation questionnaires from 605 first-year football players over 20years (1996-2015) were examined to determine the prevalence of concussions, stingers, fractures, and musculoskeletal surgeries sustained before playing at the collegiate level. Players were grouped by position: wide receiver and defensive back (WR/DB), offensive and defensive linemen (OL/DL), all other positions (OP), and unknown (UKN). Prevalence of injuries by year and position was compared using Pearson's (2) Test (p<0.05).Results: The reported lifetime prevalence is as follows: concussion (21%), stinger (23%), musculoskeletal surgery (23%), and fracture (44%). There were no significant differences in lifetime prevalence of concussions (p=0.49), stingers (p=0.31), fractures (p=0.60), or musculoskeletal surgeries (p=0.97) based on position. There were also no significant differences in the lifetime prevalence of concussions (p=0.14), musculoskeletal surgeries (p=0.50), or fractures (p=0.59) based on year. However, there was a significant difference in the lifetime prevalence of stingers based on year (p<0.001).Conclusions: There was an expectation to observe an increase in injury prevalence by entering year, but this was not seen. A decrease in stingers was actually observed, but there was no significant difference among any other injury recorded. These results do not support the perception that football injuries are on the rise. Under reporting is a significant concern as players may fear disqualification or that they are evaluated by the coaching staff based on their medical history. More research is needed to confirm lifetime injury prevalence and evaluate differences over time among football players.		[Sarac, Nikolas] Ohio State Univ, Coll Med, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Haynes, William] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Atlanta, GA USA; [Pedroza, Angela; Kaeding, Christopher; Borchers, James] Ohio State Univ, Dept Sports Med, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Sarac, Nikolas] 99 W Hubbard Ave, Columbus, OH 43215 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000415966600015	23	Article; Article		
J	Maxwell, Shane; Renier, Colleen; Sikka, Robby; Widstrom, Luke; Paulson, William; Christensen, Trent; Olson, David; Nelson, Benjamin								Online pre-race education improves test scores for volunteers at a marathon								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			265	270		10.1080/00913847.2017.1350083			2017	2017	Objectives: This study examined whether an online course would lead to increased knowledge about the medical issues volunteers encounter during a marathon. Materials and Methods: Health care professionals who volunteered to provide medical coverage for an annual marathon were eligible for the study. Demographic information about medical volunteers including profession, specialty, education level and number of marathons they had volunteered for was collected. A 15-question test about the most commonly encountered medical issues was created by the authors and administered before and after the volunteers took the online educational course and compared to a pilot study the previous year. Results: Seventy-four subjects completed the pre-test. Those who participated in the pilot study last year (N = 15) had pre-test scores that were an average of 2.4 points higher than those who did not (mean ranks: pilot study = 51.6 vs. non-pilot = 33.9, p = 0.004). Of the 74 subjects who completed the pre-test, 54 also completed the post-test. The overall post-pre mean score difference was 3.8 +/- 2.7 (t = 10.5 df = 53 p < 0.001). While subjects with all levels of volunteer experience demonstrated improvement, only change among first time marathon volunteers was significantly different from the others. Subjects reporting all degree/certification levels demonstrated improvement, but no difference in improvement was found between degree/certification levels. Conclusion: In this follow-up to the previous year's pilot study, online education demonstrated a long-term (one-year) increase in test scores. Testing also continued to show short-term improvement in post-course test scores, compared to pre-course test scores. In general, marathon medical volunteers who had no volunteer experience demonstrated greater improvement than those who had prior volunteer experience.		[Maxwell, Shane; Widstrom, Luke; Paulson, William; Christensen, Trent; Olson, David] Univ Minnesota, Primary Care Sports Med Fellowship, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Maxwell, Shane; Nelson, Benjamin] 2 Essentia Hlth, Med Orthoped, Duluth, MN USA; [Sikka, Robby] TRIA Orthoped, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Renier, Colleen] Essentia Inst Rural Hlth, Duluth, MN USA; [Maxwell, Shane] 420 Delaware St SE,MMC 381, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								0							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100008	30	Article; Article		
J	Watelain, Eric; Pinti, Antonio; Doya, Racha; Garnier, Cyril; Toumi, Hechmi; Boudet, Samuel								Benefits of physical activities centered on the trunk for pregnant women								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			293	302		10.1080/00913847.2017.1351286			2017	2017	Objective: To examine the effect of a trunk exercise program on pain, quality of life (QoL) and physical health (PH) in the late pregnancy and post-partum periods as well as baby weight and size and delivery. Methods: 90 nulliparous women were allocated based on voluntarism to a training group (TG) or to a control group (CG). TG carried out a structured program with exercises for flexibility, balance and strengthening for the majority of skeletal muscles specifically for the spinal ones, between the 24th and 36th week of pregnancy. Both TG and CG were evaluated for pain at the beginning of the program (T1), at the end of the program (T2) and two months' post-partum (T3). QoL was assessed at T1, T2 and T3, and PH at T1 and T3. Mann-Whitney test was utilized to compare TG and CG on each period and to compare the periods two by two. Results: At T1, no significant difference was found between the two groups in pain intensity (pain interference p = 0.317), QoL (p = 0.18) and PH (flexibility p = 0.06; walking p = 0.85). At T2, women of TG had a lower intensity of pain than CG (legs (p = 0.029), lower back (p < 0.0001), upper back (p = 0.022), pelvis (p = 0.017), groins (p = 0.043), lower pelvis (p = 0.009) and interference of pain (p < 0.0001)). At T3, TG had a lower intensity of pain than CG, in lower back and upper back (p < 0.0001) and interference of pain (p < 0.0001). Best scores of QoL were observed in TG compared to CG at T2 (p < 0.0001) and at T3 (p < 0.0001). PH in TG compared to CG was not different between the groups in T1 but was different in in T3 (flexibility p = 0.002, walking, balance, curling-ups and Ruffier p < 0.0001). TG were four times less likely to have a caesarean (p = 0.049) and had 4.5 h less of labor time (p < 0.0001). No difference was observed between the TG vs CG concerning the weight (p = 0.22) and the baby's size (p = 0.11). Conclusion: Strengthening exercises centered on the trunk reduce pain, improve QoL and PH in late pregnancy and at two months in the post-partum period. Strengthening exercises also ease the delivery.		[Watelain, Eric; Doya, Racha; Garnier, Cyril] Univ Lille Nord France, UVHC, LAMIH Dept SHV, UMR CNRS 8201, Valenciennes, France; [Pinti, Antonio] Univ Lille Nord France, Orleans, France; [Pinti, Antonio; Toumi, Hechmi] Univ Orleans, Multimodal Imaging & Multiscale Modeling Bone & J, EA 4708, I3MTO, Orleans, France; [Toumi, Hechmi] Univ Orleans, CHRO, Orleans, France; [Boudet, Samuel] Univ Lille Nord France, UCLille, Fac Med & Maieut, Unite Traitement Signaux Biomed, Lille, France; [Boudet, Samuel] Univ Lille Nord France, UCLille, Fac Med & Maieut, Unite Traitement Signaux Biomed, Lille, France								9							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100012	45	Article; Article		
J	Wright, Cynthia J.; Abbey, Elizabeth L.; Brandon, Barbara A.; Reisman, Edward J.; Kirkpatrick, Christina M.								Cardiovascular disease risk profile of NCAA Division III intercollegiate football athletes: a pilot study								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			280	285		10.1080/00913847.2017.1345288			2017	2017	Objectives: Concerns about the long-term cardiovascular health implications of American football participation have been investigated at the professional and Division I levels, but limited research is available at the less resourced Division III level. Therefore, the objective was to assess the cardiovascular disease risk profile of NCAA Division III intercollegiate football athletes. Methods: Eighty-nine varsity football athletes (age = 19.6 +/- 1.7 years, height = 1.81 +/- 0.07m, weight = 92.7 +/- 16.2kg; n = 21 linemen, n = 68 non-linemen) at a private Division III university volunteered to participate. During a preseason pre-participation physical examination, all participants completed a health history screening form (to assess personal and family history of cardiac related pathologies), and were assessed for height, weight, body mass index (BMI), and blood pressure (BP). Linemen only additionally gave a blood sample for fasting blood glucose and cholesterol analysis, and were assessed for waist and hip circumference, metabolic syndrome, and percent body fat (%BF). These measures were reported as averages and frequencies of elevated cardiovascular. Independent t-tests compared linemen to non-linemen, all other data was presented descriptively. Results: On average, linemen were significantly taller, heavier, had a higher BMI and higher systolic BP than non-linemen (all P < 0.05); there was no difference in diastolic BP between the groups (P = 0.331). The average anthropometric and cardiac risk characteristics for linemen were largely within normal ranges, however analyzed individually, a substantial number of participants were at elevated risk (BMI >= 30 = 85.7%, %BF >= 25 = 71.4%, waist circumference >= 1 = 42.9%, hypertension = 9.5%, high density lipoproteins <40mg/ dL = 42.9%, and triglycerides >= 150mg/ dL = 6.7%; metabolic syndrome prevalence = 19%). Conclusions: Similar to research in elite athletics, linemen at a single Division III university have elevated cardiovascular disease risk. Physicians and other healthcare providers should consider this elevated risk during pre-participation physical examinations and in planning educational or dietary programming targeted to promoting cardiovascular health.		[Wright, Cynthia J.; Abbey, Elizabeth L.; Kirkpatrick, Christina M.] Whitworth Univ, Dept Hlth Sci, Spokane, WA 99251 USA; [Brandon, Barbara A.; Reisman, Edward J.] Univ Washington, Sch Med, Dept Family Med, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [Wright, Cynthia J.] Whitworth Univ, 300 W Hawthorne Rd, Spokane, WA 99251 USA								5							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100010	24	Article; Article		
J	Miyamoto, Toshiaki; Fukuda, Kazuhito; Oshima, Yoshitake; Moritani, Toshio								Non-locomotive physical activity intervention using a tri-axial accelerometer reduces sedentary time in type 2 diabetes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			245	251		10.1080/00913847.2017.1350084			2017	2017	Objectives: The purpose of this study is to examine whether the use of a tri-axial accelerometer can reduce sedentary time and increase non-locomotive physical activity (N-LPA), and to investigate the effect of this intervention on parameters of glucose and fat metabolism in patients with type 2 diabetes. Methods: Thirty-eight patients with type 2 diabetes (Age: 61.8 +/- 1.4 years, BMI: 24.8 +/- 0.6, HbA(1c): 6.6 +/- 0.1 %) participated in this 12-week randomized controlled study, and 31 patients were included in the final analyses. Patients were randomly assigned to one of three groups: control, N-LPA or locomotive physical activity (LPA). Patients in the N-LPA and LPA groups were asked to increase their N-LPA and LPA, respectively, using tri-axial accelerometer feedback. Glucose and fat metabolic parameters were evaluated before and after 12-week intervention. Results: Only the N-LPA intervention significantly reduced sedentary time (p < 0.05) and increased N-LPA (p < 0.05). However, these changes were insufficient to improve parameters associated with glucose and fat metabolism (p > 0.05), despite a significant positive correlation between the change in sedentary time and HbA1c levels (p < 0.05). Conclusion: Our results showed that the N-LPA intervention using a tri-axial accelerometer successfully reduced sedentary time in patients with type 2 diabetes, however that induced no significant improvement of glucose and fat metabolism. Further research is required to determine the degree of reduction in sedentary time and increase in N-LPA needed to improve glucose and fat metabolism.		[Miyamoto, Toshiaki] Hyogo Univ Hlth Sci, Sch Rehabil, Dept Phys Therapy, Kobe, Hyogo 6508530, Japan; [Fukuda, Kazuhito] Univ Toyama, Dept Internal Med 1, Toyama, Japan; [Oshima, Yoshitake] Univ Mkt & Distribut Sci, Fac Serv Ind, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan; [Moritani, Toshio] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Human & Environm Studies, Kyoto, Japan; [Miyamoto, Toshiaki] Hyogo Univ Hlth Sci, Sch Rehabil, Dept Phys Therapy, Kobe, Hyogo 6508530, Japan								15							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100005	36	Article; Article		
J	Ameer, Mariam A.; Muaidi, Qassim I.								Relation between peak knee flexion angle and knee ankle kinetics in single-leg jump landing from running: a pilot study on male handball players to prevent ACL injury								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			337	343		10.1080/00913847.2017.1344514			2017	2017	Objectives: The relationship between knee kinematics and knee-ankle kinetics during the landing phase of single leg jumping has been widely studied to identify proper strategies for preventing non-contact ACL injury. However, there is a lack of study on knee-ankle kinetics at peak knee flexion angle during jumping from running. Hence, the purpose of this study is to establish the relationship between peak knee flexion angle, knee extension moment, ankle plantar flexion moment and ground reaction force in handball players in order to protect ACL from excessive stress during single leg jumping. In addition, the study also clarifies the role of calf muscles in relieving part of ACL stresses with different knee flexion angles during landing. Methods: Fifteen active male elite handball players of Saudi Arabia have participated in this study (Age = 22.6 +/- 3.5years, Height = 182 +/- 3.7 cm, Weight = 87.5 +/- 10.2 kg). The players performed three successful landings of single-leg jump following running a fixed distance of about 450cm. The data were collected using a 3D motion capture and analysis system (VICON). Results: Pearson product moment correlation coefficients showed that greater peak knee flexion angle is related significantly to both lesser knee extension moment (r = -.623, P = .013) and vertical component of ground reaction force (VGRF) (r = -.688, P = .005) in landing phase. Moreover, increasing the peak knee flexion angle in landing phase tends to increase the ankle plantar flexion moment significantly (r = .832, P = .000). Conclusion: With an increase of the peak knee flexion angle during single leg jump landing from running, there would be less knee extension moment, low impact force and more plantar flexion moment. As such, the clinical implication of this study is that there may be a possible protective mechanism by increasing the knee flexion angle during landing phase, which tends to protect the ACL from vigorous strain and injuries.		[Ameer, Mariam A.; Muaidi, Qassim I.] Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal Univ, Coll Appl Med Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, Al Dammam, Saudi Arabia; [Ameer, Mariam A.] Cairo Univ, Coll Phys Therapy, Dept Biomech, Giza, Egypt; [Ameer, Mariam A.] Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal Univ, Al Dammam 12587, Al Khober, Saudi Arabia								16							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100018	37	Article; Article		
J	Herrero-Herrero, Maria; Garcia-Masso, Xavier; Martinez-Corralo, Carlos; Prades-Pinon, Josep; Sanchis-Alfonso, Vicente								Relationship between the practice of physical activity and quality of movement in adolescents: a screening tool using self-organizing maps								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			271	279		10.1080/00913847.2017.1327303			2017	2017	Objectives: The aim of this study was to determine whether the most physically active adolescents have better lower limb control. Methods: 31 high school students (12 males and 19 females) participated in this study. The Anterior Knee Pain Scale was used to find any cases of knee pain. Only subjects with high scores were selected, to exclude those with knee pain or lower limb injuries. Single Leg Squat and Tuck Jump Assessment were used to evaluate movements with two cameras in a two-dimensional assessment. The IPAQ Questionnaire was used to score the physical activity and to classify it into MET total, MET moderate activity, MET vigorous activity and MET walking. These scores were related to knee angle at landing, age and body mass index by self-organizing maps analysis. Results: The subjects were classified into 4 clusters and the descriptive statistics of the different clusters were determined to find any differences. The subjects in cluster 3 were classified as those with the highest risk factors of suffering lower limb musculoskeletal disorders or knee pain, even though injuries do not only depend on quality of movement. Physical activity was not related to healthy movements during jump and single leg squat. Conclusion: Physical activity alone cannot be an indicator of good quality lower limb movement, as the knee valgus angle plays a determining role, as it could also depend on neuromuscular control and anatomical characteristics. The analytical method described in the study could be used by physical education teachers to detect potential risk factors for musculoskeletal problems in the lower limbs, especially in the knees.		[Herrero-Herrero, Maria; Garcia-Masso, Xavier] Univ Valencia, Dept Didact Expressio Mus Plast & Corporal, C Marines 43, Valencia, Spain; [Herrero-Herrero, Maria; Martinez-Corralo, Carlos; Prades-Pinon, Josep] EFIR Estudi Fisioterapia & Rendiment, Valencia, Spain; [Sanchis-Alfonso, Vicente] Hosp Arnau Vilanova, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Valencia, Spain; [Sanchis-Alfonso, Vicente] Hosp 9 Octubre, Valencia, Spain; [Herrero-Herrero, Maria] Univ Valencia, Dept Didact Expressio Mus Plast & Corporal, C Marines 43, Valencia, Spain								8							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100009	50	Article; Article		
J	Read, Connor R.; Watson, Shawna L.; Perez, Jorge L.; Estes, A. Reed								Competitive bass anglers: a new concern in sports medicine								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			309	315		10.1080/00913847.2017.1321947			2017	2017	Objective: Competitive bass angling involves sport fishing against other anglers while targeting a species of fish known as the black basses. Due to the rapidly growing popularity of high school competitive bass angling in Alabama and the nature of the casting motion similar to that of overhead athletes, we sought to examine the prevalence of sports type injuries in this population. Methods: In spring 2016, an anonymous survey was distributed across two large scale competitive high school fishing tournaments, allowing for a broad sampling of anglers throughout the state of Alabama. Survey items included demographic information, relevant past medical history, and various pains associated with the shoulder, elbow and wrist. Results were recorded and analyzed electronically using Microsoft Excel and IBM SPSS statistical software. Results: A total of 257 surveys were recorded. The response rate was 61%. The mean age of participating anglers was 15 +/- 1.61 years. The majority (42%) of anglers fished year round. On average, anglers casted nearly 1,000 more times while competing versus fishing recreationally. Approximately 15% of anglers experienced shoulder, elbow, and wrist pain. The most common factors associated with pain included higher tournament cast counts, number of competitive years, number of tournaments/year, number of tournaments, and use of light weight lures. Conclusion: A large portion of high school competitive anglers experience upper extremity pain. Knowledge of angling factors associated with pain allow for the creation of a modifiable routine to help reduce pain in affected anglers and prevent pain in healthy anglers.		[Read, Connor R.; Watson, Shawna L.; Perez, Jorge L.; Estes, A. Reed] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Dept Surg, Div Orthoped, UAB Sports Med, 401 20th St S 324, Birmingham, AL 35233 USA; [Read, Connor R.] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Dept Surg, Div Orthoped, UAB Sports Med, 401 20th St S 324, Birmingham, AL 35233 USA								2							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100014	18	Article; Article		
J	Moses, Michael J.; Wang, David E.; Weinberg, Maxwell; Strauss, Eric J.								Clinical outcomes following surgically repaired bucket-handle meniscus tears								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			329	336		10.1080/00913847.2017.1331688			2017	2017	Objectives: Meniscus tears are one of the most common knee injuries. Our goal is to investigate the failure rate for surgically repaired bucket-handle meniscus tears and compare clinical outcomes of repairs that failed versus those that did not, at a minimum 2-year follow-up interval. Methods: 51 patients were identified in this retrospective cohort study who experienced bucket-handle meniscus tears that were isolated or with concomitant ACL injury. Inclusion criteria included age range from 13-55 years, confirmed bucket-handle meniscus tear by MRI and intraoperatively, and at least two-years of post- operative follow-up following index repair. Demographic data and outcome surveys were collected at a minimum of two-years follow-up after repair. Results: Of the 51 patients that had a bucket-handle meniscal repair, 12 (23.5%) were defined as failures (return of symptoms alongside re-tear in the same zone of the repaired meniscus within two years of surgery). No demographic variables (age, sex, and BMI smoking status, location of tear, or concomitant ACL tear) significantly correlated with failure. The mean of the Sports and Recreation KOOS was significantly lower between the non-failure (87 +/- 14.4) and failure (70 +/- 17.2) cohorts (p = 0.0072). The Quality of Life subscale was significantly lower between the non-failure (76 +/- 15.8) and failure (57 +/- 18.2) groups (p = 0.0058). There was a significant difference in the post- operative Lysholm scores (p = 0.0039) with a mean of 90 +/- 9.1 for the entire cohort and means of 92 +/- 8.4 and 83 +/- 8.6, for non-failure and failure groups, respectively. Conclusions: We found a higher failure rate (23.5%) for bucket-handle meniscus repairs at two-year follow up than has been cited in the literature, which is typically less than 20%, with significantly lower KOOS Quality of Life and Sports and Recreation subscales and Lysholm scores for the failure cohort. This is the first study to report these outcome scores solely for bucket-handle meniscus repairs, shedding light on the post-operative quality of life of patients with repair success or failure.		[Moses, Michael J.; Wang, David E.; Weinberg, Maxwell; Strauss, Eric J.] NYU, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Div Sports Med, Langone Med Ctr,Hosp Joint Dis, New York, NY 10003 USA; [Strauss, Eric J.] NYU, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Langone Med Ctr, Hosp Joint Dis, 301 East 17th St, New York, NY 10003 USA								24							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100017	43	Article; Article		
J	Pasulka, Jacqueline; Jayanthi, Neeru; McCann, Ashley; Dugas, Lara R.; LaBella, Cynthia								Specialization patterns across various youth sports and relationship to injury risk								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	3			344	352		10.1080/00913847.2017.1313077			2017	2017	Objectives: Current trends among young athletes towards earlier specialization age and year-round training on multiple teams has raised concern for increased injury risk. Our previous analyses showed higher risk for injury in highly specialized young athletes. The goal of this research was to determine whether sports specialization and injury patterns vary by sports type. Methods: In this clinical case-control study, injured athletes (aged 7-18 years) were recruited from sports medicine clinics and compared to similarly aged uninjured athletes recruited from primary care clinics. Participants completed a survey reporting age, gender, sport type, specialization patterns, and details regarding sports-related injuries in the previous 6 months. Clinical diagnoses were collected from patients' medical records. Injuries were classified as acute, overuse, or serious overuse. Results: Of 1,190 athletes enrolled, 26% (313) were single-sport specialized (reported participation in one sport and trained >8 months/year). Sports with the highest proportion of single-sport specialized athletes were tennis (46.7%), gymnastics (30.1%), and dance (26.3%). Single-sport specialized athletes in individual sports started specializing at a younger age (11.2 +/- 2.4 vs. 12.0 +/- 2.7, p = 0.05) and reported higher training volumes (11.8 vs. 10.3 h/week, p = 0.04) than those in team sports. Sports with the youngest specialization age were gymnastics (8.9 +/- 1.7), dance (10.8 +/- 3.0), and soccer (10.9 +/- 2.4). Single-sport specialized athletes in individual sports accounted for a higher proportion of overuse injuries (44.3% vs 32.2%, OR = 1.67, p = 0.037) and serious overuse injuries (23.4% vs 11.6%, OR = 2.38, p = 0.011), but a lower proportion of acute injuries (28.8% vs 13.8%, OR = 0.37, p = 0.001) compared to single-sport specialized athletes involved in team sports. Conclusions: Athletes in individual sports may be more likely to specialize in a single sport than team sport athletes. Single- sport specialized athletes in individual sports also reported higher training volumes and greater rates of overuse injuries than single-sport specialized athletes in team sports.		[Pasulka, Jacqueline; LaBella, Cynthia] Ann & Robert H Lurie Childrens Hosp Chicago, Div Pediat Orthopaed Surg & Sports Med, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Pasulka, Jacqueline] Des Moines Univ, Coll Osteopath Med, Des Moines, IA USA; [Jayanthi, Neeru] Emory Univ, Sch Med, Atlanta, GA USA; [Jayanthi, Neeru; McCann, Ashley] Emory Sports Med Ctr, Atlanta, GA USA; [Dugas, Lara R.] Loyola Univ Chicago, Stritch Sch Med, Maywood, IL USA; [LaBella, Cynthia] Northwestern Univ, Dept Pediat, Feinberg Sch Med, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Pasulka, Jacqueline] 225 East Chicago Ave,Box 69, Chicago, IL 60611 USA								125							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000416502100019	33	Article; Article		
J	Piucco, Tatiane; Bini, Rodrigo; Sakaguchi, Masanori; Diefenthaeler, Fernando; Stefanyshyn, Darren								Motor unit firing frequency of lower limb muscles during an incremental slide board skating test								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	4			540	551		10.1080/14763141.2016.1246600			2017	2017	This study investigated how the combination of workload and fatigue affected the frequency components of muscle activation and possible recruitment priority of motor units during skating to exhaustion. Ten male competitive speed skaters performed an incremental maximal test on a slide board. Activation of six muscles from the right leg was recorded throughout the test. A time-frequency analysis was performed to compute overall, high, and low frequency bands from the whole signal at 10, 40, 70, and 90% of total test time. Overall activation increased for all muscles throughout the test (p<0.05 and ES>0.80). There was an increase in low frequency (90 vs. 10%, p=0.035, ES=1.06) and a decrease in high frequency (90 vs. 10%, p=0.009, ES=1.38, and 90 vs. 40%, p=0.025, ES=1.12) components of gluteus maximus. Strong correlations were found between the maximal cadence and vastus lateralis, gluteus maximus and gluteus medius activation at the end of the test. In conclusion, the incremental skating test lead to an increase in activation of lower limb muscles, but only gluteus maximus was sensitive to changes in frequency components, probably caused by a pronounced fatigue.		[Piucco, Tatiane; Sakaguchi, Masanori; Diefenthaeler, Fernando; Stefanyshyn, Darren] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Roger Jackson Ctr Hlth & Wellness Res, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Piucco, Tatiane; Diefenthaeler, Fernando] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Phys Educ Dept, Sports Ctr, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Bini, Rodrigo] Sch Phys Educ Army, Ctr Phys Training Army, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Piucco, Tatiane] Univ Calgary, Fac Kinesiol, Roger Jackson Ctr Hlth & Wellness Res, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Piucco, Tatiane] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Phys Educ Dept, Sports Ctr, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								4							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000409212900009	41	Article; Article		
J	Howard, Roisin M.; Conway, Richard; Harrison, Andrew J.								Muscle activation sequencing of leg muscles during linear glide shot putting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	4			463	484		10.1080/14763141.2016.1246601			2017	2017	In the shot put, the athlete's muscles are responsible for generating the impulses to move the athlete and project the shot into the air. Information on phasic muscle activity is lacking for the glide shot put event and therefore important technical information for coaches is not currently available. This study provides an electromyography (EMG) analysis of the muscle activity of the legs during shot put. Fifteen right-handed Irish national level shot putters performed six maximum effort throws using the glide shot put technique. EMG records of eight bilateral lower limb muscles (rectus femoris, biceps femoris, medial- and lateral-gastrocnemius) were obtained during trials. Analysis using smooth EMG linear envelopes revealed patterns of muscle activity across the phases of the throw and compare men and women performers. The results showed that the preferred leg rectus femoris, the preferred leg biceps femoris and the non-preferred leg biceps femoris play important roles in the glide technique, with the total duration of high volumes of activity between 34 and 53% of the throw cycle. A comprehensive understanding of movement and muscle activation patterns for coaches could be helpful to facilitate optimal technique throughout each of the key phases of the event.		[Howard, Roisin M.; Conway, Richard] Univ Limerick, Dept Elect & Comp Engn, Limerick, Ireland; [Howard, Roisin M.; Harrison, Andrew J.] Univ Limerick, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland; [Howard, Roisin M.] Univ Limerick, Dept Elect & Comp Engn, Limerick, Ireland; [Howard, Roisin M.] Univ Limerick, Biomech Res Unit, Limerick, Ireland								13							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000409212900004	34	Article; Article		
J	Miyanishi, Tomohisa; Endo, So; Nagahara, Ryu								Comparison of crossover and jab step start techniques for base stealing in baseball								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	4			552	566		10.1080/14763141.2016.1246604			2017	2017	Base stealing is an important tactic for increasing the chance of scoring in baseball. This study aimed to compare the crossover step (CS) and jab step (JS) starts for base stealing start performance and to clarify the differences between CS and JS starts in terms of three-dimensional lower extremity joint kinetics. Twelve male baseball players performed CS and JS starts, during which their motion and the force they applied to the ground were simultaneously recorded using a motion-capture system and two force platforms. The results showed that the normalised average forward external power, the average forward-backward force exerted by the left leg, and the forward velocities of the whole body centre of gravity generated by both legs and the left leg were significantly higher for the JS start than for the CS start. Moreover, the positive work done by hip extension during the left leg push-off was two-times greater for the JS start than the CS start. In conclusion, this study has demonstrated that the jab step start may be the better technique for a base stealing start and that greater positive work produced by left hip extension is probably responsible for producing its larger forward ground reaction force.		[Miyanishi, Tomohisa; Endo, So] Sendai Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Shibata, Japan; [Nagahara, Ryu] Natl Inst Fitness & Sports Kanoya, Sports Performance Lab, Kanoya, Japan; [Miyanishi, Tomohisa] Sendai Univ, Fac Sports Sci, Shibata, Japan								3							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000409212900010	29	Article; Article		
J	Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Jaric, Slobodan; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Padial, Paulino; Feriche, Belen								Reliability and magnitude of mechanical variables assessed from unconstrained and constrained loaded countermovement jumps								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	4			514	526		10.1080/14763141.2016.1246598			2017	2017	This study aimed to (1) assess the reliability of the force, velocity, and power output variables measured by a force plate and a linear velocity transducer (LVT) for both the unconstrained and constrained loaded countermovement jump (CMJ), and (2) examine the effect of both the CMJ type and the measurement method on the magnitudes of the same variables. Twenty-three men were tested on the free CMJ and the CMJ constrained by a Smith machine. Maximum values of force, velocity, and power were recorded by a force plate and by a LVT attached to a bar loaded by 17, 30, 45, 60, and 75kg. The reliability of all mechanical variables proved to be high (ICC>0.70; CV<10%) and similar for two CMJ types. However, force plate-derived measures displayed greater reliability than the LVT. The LVT also markedly overestimated the magnitudes of the mechanical variables, particularly at lower external loads. Therefore, although both jump types and both methods could be acceptable for routine testing, we recommend the force platform due to a higher reliability and more accurate magnitudes of the obtained variables. The unconstrained loaded CMJ could also be recommended due to the simpler equipment needed.		[Garcia-Ramos, Amador; Perez-Castilla, Alejandro; Padial, Paulino; Feriche, Belen] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Dept Kinesiol & Appl Physiol, Newark, NJ USA; [Jaric, Slobodan] Univ Delaware, Biomech & Movement Sci Grad Program, Newark, NJ USA; [Garcia-Ramos, Amador] Univ Granada, Fac Sport Sci, Dept Phys Educ & Sport, Granada, Spain								32							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000409212900007	40	Article; Article		
J	Macdermid, Paul W.; Miller, Matthew C.; Fink, Philip W.; Stannard, Stephen R.								The effectiveness of front fork systems at damping accelerations during isolated aspects specific to cross-country mountain biking								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	4			527	539		10.1080/14763141.2016.1246599			2017	2017	Cross-country mountain bike suspension reportedly enhances comfort and performance through reduced vibration and impact exposure. This study analysed the effectiveness of three different front fork systems at damping accelerations during the crossing of three isolated obstacles (stairs, drop, and root). One participant completed three trials on six separate occasions in a randomised order using rigid, air-sprung, and carbon leaf-sprung forks. Performance was determined by time to cross obstacles, while triaxial accelerometers quantified impact exposure and damping response. Results identified significant main effect of fork type for performance time (p<0.05). The air-sprung and leaf-sprung forks were significantly slower than the rigid forks for the stairs (p<0.05), while air-sprung suspension was slower than the rigid for the root protocol (p<0.05). There were no differences for the drop protocol (p<0.05). Rigid forks reduced overall exposure (p<0.05), specifically at the handlebars for the stairs and drop trials. More detailed analysis presented smaller vertical accelerations at the handlebar for air-sprung and leaf-sprung forks on the stairs (p<0.05), and drop (p<0.05) but not the root. As such, it appears that the suspension systems tested were ineffective at reducing overall impact exposure at the handlebar during isolated aspects of cross-country terrain features which may be influenced to a larger extent by rider technique.		[Macdermid, Paul W.; Miller, Matthew C.; Fink, Philip W.; Stannard, Stephen R.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise, Coll Hlth, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Macdermid, Paul W.] Massey Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise, Coll Hlth, Palmerston North, New Zealand								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000409212900008	18	Article; Article		
J	Vigouroux, Laurent; de Monsabert, Benjamin Goislard; Hayot, Chris; Androuet, Philippe; Berton, Eric								Assessment of the risk and biomechanical consequences of lateral epicondylalgia by estimating wrist and finger muscle capacities in tennis players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	4			434	451		10.1080/14763141.2016.1212916			2017	2017	Previous studies suggested that a pronounced weakness of the extensor muscles relative to the flexor muscles could increase the risk of occurrence of lateral epicondylalgia. This study investigates this hypothesis by estimating the ratio of extensor to flexor muscle capacities among healthy non-players (n=10), healthy tennis players (n=20), symptomatic players (n=6), and players who have recovered from lateral epicondylalgia (n=6). Maximum net joint moments in flexion or extension were measured during seven tasks involving the voluntary contraction of wrist and fingers. Using these data, the muscle capacities of the main muscle groups of the hand (wrist flexors, wrist extensors, finger flexors, finger extensors, and intrinsic muscles) were estimated using a musculoskeletal model. These capacities were then used to compute the extensor/flexor capacity ratios about the wrist and the finger joints. Compared to healthy non-players, healthy players presented higher extensor muscle capacities and greater capacity ratios showing that playing tennis generates specific adaptations of muscle capacities. Interestingly, symptomatic players, similar to those of non-players, showed more imbalanced ratios than healthy players. These results confirm that the ratio of extensor/flexor muscle capacities seems to be associated with lateral epicondylalgia and can be further used to understand its incidence and consequences.		[Vigouroux, Laurent; de Monsabert, Benjamin Goislard; Hayot, Chris; Berton, Eric] Aix Marseille Univ, Inst Movement Sci, Natl Ctr Sci Res, Marseille, France; [de Monsabert, Benjamin Goislard] Imperial Coll London, Dept Bioengn, London, England; [Androuet, Philippe] Oxylane Res, Dept Movement Sci, Villeneuve Dascq, France; [Vigouroux, Laurent] Aix Marseille Univ, Inst Movement Sci, Natl Ctr Sci Res, Marseille, France								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000409212900002	49	Article; Article		
J	Knudson, Duane								Confidence crisis of results in biomechanics research								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	4			425	433		10.1080/14763141.2016.1246603			2017	2017	Many biomechanics studies have small sample sizes and incorrect statistical analyses, so reporting of inaccurate inferences and inflated magnitude of effects are common in the field. This review examines these issues in biomechanics research and summarises potential solutions from research in other fields to increase the confidence in the experimental effects reported in biomechanics. Authors, reviewers and editors of biomechanics research reports are encouraged to improve sample sizes and the resulting statistical power, improve reporting transparency, improve the rigour of statistical analyses used, and increase the acceptance of replication studies to improve the validity of inferences from data in biomechanics research. The application of sports biomechanics research results would also improve if a larger percentage of unbiased effects and their uncertainty were reported in the literature.		[Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA; [Knudson, Duane] Texas State Univ, Dept Hlth & Human Performance, San Marcos, TX 78666 USA								55							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000409212900001	56	Article; Article		
J	Debaere, Sofie; Vanwanseele, Benedicte; Delecluse, Christophe; Aerenhouts, Dirk; Hagman, Friso; Jonkers, Ilse								Joint power generation differentiates young and adult sprinters during the transition from block start into acceleration: a cross-sectional study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	4			452	462		10.1080/14763141.2016.1234639			2017	2017	The aim of this study was to investigate differences in joint power generation between well-trained adult athletes and young sprinters from block clearance to initial contact of second stance. Eleven under 16 (U16) and 18 under 18 (U18) promising sprinters executed an explosive start action. Fourteen well-trained adult sprinters completed the exact same protocol. All athletes were equipped with 74 spherical reflective markers, while an opto-electronic motion analysis system consisting of 12 infrared cameras (250Hz, MX3, Vicon, Oxford Metrics, UK) and 2 Kistler force plates (1,000Hz) was used to collect the three-dimensional marker trajectories and ground reaction forces (Nexus, Vicon). Three-dimensional kinematics, kinetics, and power were calculated (Opensim) and time normalised from the first action after gunshot until initial contact of second stance after block clearance. This study showed that adult athletes rely on higher knee power generation during the first stance to induce longer step length and therefore higher velocity. In younger athletes, power generation of hip was more dominant.		[Debaere, Sofie; Delecluse, Christophe] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Kinesiol, Sports & Hlth Grp, Res Unit Phys Act, Heverlee, Belgium; [Vanwanseele, Benedicte; Jonkers, Ilse] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Kinesiol, Res Unit Human Movement Biomech, Heverlee, Belgium; [Aerenhouts, Dirk; Hagman, Friso] Vrije Univ Brussel, Fac Phys Educ & Physiotherapy, Dept Human Biometry & Biomech, Brussels, Belgium; [Vanwanseele, Benedicte] Katholieke Univ Leuven, Dept Kinesiol, Res Unit Human Movement Biomech, Heverlee, Belgium								9							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000409212900003	23	Article; Article		
J	Kim, Taehee; Seo, Hyo Min; Chang, Kyungro								The impact of celebrity-advertising context congruence on the effectiveness of brand image transfer								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	3			246	262		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-095			2017	2017	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the effect of celebrity-advertising context congruence on transferring a celebrity's image to a brand image. Design/methodology/approach - This study investigates the effect of the advertising context, which is the background of the ad provided by the vehicle carrying it, in transferring a celebrity athlete's image. Findings - The results indicate that the presentation of a celebrity athlete in an advertising context that is congruent with the professional expertise of the athlete enables the more effective transfer of the athlete's image to the brand's image compared with the incongruent advertising context. In addition, the findings suggest that image attributes perceived as belonging to the professional expertise of an athlete are transferred more effectively by a context-congruent advertisement, while image attributes based on the sociocultural influence of an athlete show no difference in image transfer based on the advertising context. Originality/value - Although the advertising context has been thought to influence advertising effectiveness, no specific research has thus far analyzed the relationship between image transfer and the advertising context in the sports marketing literature.		[Kim, Taehee; Seo, Hyo Min; Chang, Kyungro] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sports Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Chang, Kyungro] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Coll Sports Sci, Suwon, South Korea								17							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000408474200002	62	Article; Article		
J	Gee, Sarah; Sam, Michael P.; Jackson, Steve J.								Content analyses of alcohol-related images during television broadcasts of major sports events in New Zealand								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	3			230	245		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-094			2017	2017	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the nature, frequency, and duration of alcohol-related promotions and crowd alcohol consumption during major sports events broadcasted on the SKY Sport network between September 2011 and February 2012. Design/methodology/approach - Content analyses for various categories of alcohol-related images were conducted, including a novel inclusion of analysing crowd alcohol consumption. Findings - The results provide empirical evidence that sponsorship and activation-related activities of alcohol brands subvert national regulations that ban alcohol advertising during daytime television programming. Originality/value - The results serve to sensitise researchers, practitioners, policy makers, and regulators to the prevalence of incidental alcohol promotional material within the overall televised alcohol advertising mix and the broader societal exposure to such images. This research also informs readers that alcohol companies and media outlets produce alcohol-related marketing that may not be in-line with the meaning and/or intent of laws.		[Gee, Sarah] Massey Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Sam, Michael P.; Jackson, Steve J.] Univ Otago, Sch Phys Educ Sport & Exercise Sci, Dunedin, New Zealand; [Gee, Sarah] Massey Univ, Sch Sport & Exercise, Palmerston North, New Zealand								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000408474200001	54	Article; Article		
J	Ha, Jae-Pil; Kang, Sun J.; Kim, Yukyoum								Sport fans in a "smart sport" (SS) age: drivers of smartphone use for sport consumption								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	3			281	297		10.1108/IJSMS-08-2017-093			2017	2017	Purpose - With the ever-increasing popularity of smartphones, it has become one of the most important medium to increase sport fan engagement. However, very little attention has been paid to understand how fans use smartphones to follow sport. With that in mind, the purpose of this paper is to investigate specific factors that influence the use of smartphones in the sport consumption context. Design/methodology/approach - This research empirically examined theoretical relationships between three categories of variables (perceptions toward smartphones, sport-specific factors, and smartphone-specific factors) and intention to use the smartphone in following sports. Findings - Of the 11 proposed hypotheses, eight hypotheses were supported. Approximately 79.4 percent of variance in the usage intention was explained by the three categories of the variables. Originality/value - As one of the first to take a holistic approach toward understanding sport consumption behaviors using smartphones, results of the current research can be employed as a base for studies examining other multi-functional technology medium in various sport settings.		[Ha, Jae-Pil] Gyeongsang Natl Univ, Jinju, South Korea; [Kang, Sun J.] Univ Manchester, North Manchester, IN USA; [Kim, Yukyoum] Seoul Natl Univ, Seoul, South Korea; [Ha, Jae-Pil] Gyeongsang Natl Univ, Jinju, South Korea								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000408474200004	58	Article; Article		
J	Annesi, James J.; Porter, Kandice J.; Hill, Grant M.; Goldfine, Bernard D.								Effects of Instructional Physical Activity Courses on Overall Physical Activity and Mood in University Students								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			358	364		10.1080/02701367.2017.1336280			2017	2017	Purpose: The aim of this research was to assess the association between university-based instructional physical activity (PA) courses and changes in overall PA levels and negative mood and their interrelations. The study also sought to determine the amount of change in PA required to significantly improve mood in course enrollees. Method: Participants were university students initially completing PA below the level recommended for health who were either presently enrolled in an elective instructional PA course (treatment group, n = 52, 69% female) or not presently enrolled in such a course (comparison group, n = 32, 69% female). Validated surveys assessed volumes of PA completed per week and overall negative mood from baseline to course end. Mediation analyses assessed group effects on mood through PA changes and reciprocal relations between PA and mood changes. Results: There was a significantly greater increase in PA and significantly more reduction in negative mood in the treatment group. Change in PA completely mediated the relationship between group and change in negative mood, and change in mood completely mediated the relationship between group and PA. These findings indicated a reciprocal, mutually reinforcing relationship between changes in PA and mood. An increase in PA of at least 2 days/week was associated with a significant reduction in negative mood, with no greater effect for more increase. Conclusions: Results provided an improved understanding of the effects of university-based instructional PA courses and how they might be leveraged to improve students' mental health and possibly contribute to their academic success.		[Annesi, James J.] YMCA Metro Atlanta, 100 Edgewood Ave NE,Suite 1100, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA; [Annesi, James J.; Porter, Kandice J.; Goldfine, Bernard D.] Kennesaw State Univ, Kennesaw, GA USA; [Hill, Grant M.] Calif State Univ Long Beach, Long Beach, CA 90840 USA; [Annesi, James J.] YMCA Metro Atlanta, 100 Edgewood Ave NE,Suite 1100, Atlanta, GA 30303 USA								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700013	38	Article; Article		
J	Gomes da Cruz, Carlos Janssen; Molina, Guilherme Eckhardt; Grossi Porto, Luiz Guilherme; Junqueira, Luiz Fernando, Jr.								Resting Bradycardia, Enhanced Postexercise Heart Rate Recovery and Cardiorespiratory Fitness in Recreational Ballroom Dancers								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			371	376		10.1080/02701367.2017.1318202			2017	2017	Purpose: In a cross-sectional study design, we evaluated the resting heart rate (HRbaseline) and exercise and postexercise stress test-related chronotropic responses in male practitioners of recreational ballroom dancing (BD; n = 25, M-age = 26.6 +/- 6.1 years) compared to a control group of insufficiently active nondancers (CG; n = 25, M-age = 25.9 +/- 4.5 years). Method: All participants underwent a submaximal exercise test. At 85% of the maximal predicted HR, the recovery protocol was started, and heart rate recovery (HRR) was recorded during 1-min intervals for 5 min. Results: Compared with CG, BD showed lower HRbaseline (70 beats per minute [bpm] vs. 62 bpm, respectively, U = 143, p <.05, ES =.46), lower preexercise HR (94 bpm vs. 86 bpm, U = 157, p <.05, ES =.42), longer exercise test duration (346 s vs. 420 s, U = 95.5, p <.05, ES =.59), and higher HRR for 5 min postexercise (U = 1.29-1.89, p <.05, ES =.33-. 50) as follows: 1st min (32 bpm vs. 40 bpm), 2nd min (45 bpm vs. 53 bpm), 3rd min (51 bpm vs. 58 bpm), 4th min (55 bpm vs. 59 bpm), and 5th min (59 bpm vs. 63 bpm). The coefficient of HRR from the 1st min to the 5th min postexercise was similar in both groups (U = 229-311, p >.05, ES = <.10-. 22). Conclusion: Heightened cardiovascular functional status characterized by favorable enhanced chronotropic dynamics appears to occur in practitioners of recreational ballroom dancing, which suggests that this modality of exercise may result in health benefits.		[Gomes da Cruz, Carlos Janssen; Molina, Guilherme Eckhardt; Grossi Porto, Luiz Guilherme; Junqueira, Luiz Fernando, Jr.] Univ Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Gomes da Cruz, Carlos Janssen] Univ Brasilia, Cardiovasc Lab, Fac Med, POB 04397, BR-70910900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700015	30	Article; Article		
J	Karnaze, Melissa M.; Levine, Linda J.; Schneider, Margaret								Misremembering Past Affect Predicts Adolescents' Future Affective Experience During Exercise								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			316	328		10.1080/02701367.2017.1317322			2017	2017	Purpose: Increasing physical activity among adolescents is a public health priority. Because people are motivated to engage in activities that make them feel good, this study examined predictors of adolescents' feelings during exercise. Method: During the 1st semester of the school year, we assessed 6th-grade students' (N = 136) cognitive appraisals of the importance of exercise. Participants also reported their affect during a cardiovascular fitness test and recalled their affect during the fitness test later that semester. During the 2nd semester, the same participants rated their affect during a moderate-intensity exercise task. Results: Affect reported during the moderate- intensity exercise task was predicted by cognitive appraisals of the importance of exercise and by misremembering affect during the fitness test as more positive than it actually was. This memory bias mediated the association between appraising exercise as important and experiencing a positive change in affect during the moderate-intensity exercise task. Conclusion: These findings highlight the roles of both cognitive appraisals and memory as factors that may influence affect during exercise. Future work should explore whether affect during exercise can be modified by targeting appraisals and memories related to exercise experiences.		[Karnaze, Melissa M.; Levine, Linda J.; Schneider, Margaret] Univ Calif Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697 USA; [Levine, Linda J.] Univ Calif Irvine, Dept Psychol & Social Behav, 4201 Social & Behav Sci Gateway, Irvine, CA 92697 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700008	36	Article; Article		
J	Guagliano, Justin M.; Updyke, Natalie J.; Rodicheva, Natalia V.; Rosenkranz, Sara K.; Dzewaltowski, David A.; Schlechter, Chelsey R.; Rosenkranz, Richard R.								Influence of Session Context on Physical Activity Levels Among Russian Girls During a Summer Camp								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			352	357		10.1080/02701367.2017.1331291			2017	2017	Purpose: This study investigated the effect of summer camp session context on Russian girls' physical activity (PA). Method: Girls (n = 32, M-age = 10.7 years, SD = 0.6 years) from a resident summer camp taking place in the Vologda Region of Russia were exposed to 1 session context/day (i.e., free play, organized with no choice, organized with choice) on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday for 3 weeks, with the context order counterbalanced across the 3 weeks. The organized session sport/ game changed weekly. The primary outcome was accelerometer-assessed PA. Repeated-measures mixed models were used to analyze all outcome data. Results: Findings showed that girls spent a greater percentage of session time (% time) in moderate-to-vigorous PA (p <.001; effect sizes between free play and organized with no choice and organized with choice, respectively =.60,.42) and moderate PA (p <.001; effect size =.57, .39) and a lower % time in light PA (p <.001; effect size =.55, .52) in organized PA contexts compared with free play. Conclusions: This study provides novel findings in a Russian setting, suggesting that a wellplanned, organized camp session can elicit higher PA levels in girls, relative to a free-play session.		[Guagliano, Justin M.; Updyke, Natalie J.; Rodicheva, Natalia V.; Rosenkranz, Sara K.; Schlechter, Chelsey R.; Rosenkranz, Richard R.] Kansas State Univ, Manhattan, KS 66506 USA; [Dzewaltowski, David A.] Univ Nebraska, Lincoln, NE 68583 USA; [Guagliano, Justin M.] Univ Cambridge, Cambridge, England; [Guagliano, Justin M.] Univ Cambridge, Sch Clin Med, MRC Epidemiol Unit, Inst Metab Sci, Box 285,Cambridge Biomed Campus, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, England; [Guagliano, Justin M.] Univ Cambridge, Sch Clin Med, UKCRC Ctr Diet & Act Res CEDAR, Inst Metab Sci, Box 285,Cambridge Biomed Campus, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, England								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700012	29	Article; Article		
J	Ward, Jeffery Kurt; Hastie, Peter A.; Wadsworth, Danielle D.; Foote, Shelby; Brock, Sheri J.; Hollett, Nikki								A Sport Education Fitness Season's Impact on Students' Fitness Levels, Knowledge, and In-Class Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			346	351		10.1080/02701367.2017.1321100			2017	2017	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which a sport education season of fitness could provide students with recommended levels of in-class moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) while also increasing students' fitness knowledge and fitness achievement. Method: One hundred and sixty-six 5th-grade students (76 boys, 90 girls) participated in a 20-lesson season called " CrossFit Challenge" during a 4-week period. The Progressive Aerobic Cardiovascular Endurance Run, push-ups, and curl-ups tests of the FITNESSGRAM r were used to assess fitness at pretest and posttest, while fitness knowledge was assessed through a validated, grade-appropriate test of health-related fitness knowledge (HRF). Physical activity was measured with Actigraph GT3X triaxial accelerometers. Results: Results indicated a significant time effect for all fitness tests and the knowledge test. Across the entire season, the students spent an average of 54.5% of lesson time engaged in MVPA, irrespective of the type of lesson (instruction, free practice, or competition). Conclusions: The results suggest that configuring the key principles of sport education within a unit of fitness is an efficient model for providing students with the opportunity to improve fitness skill and HRF knowledge while attaining recommended levels of MVPA.		[Ward, Jeffery Kurt; Hastie, Peter A.; Wadsworth, Danielle D.; Foote, Shelby; Brock, Sheri J.; Hollett, Nikki] Auburn Univ, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Hastie, Peter A.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, 301 Wire Rd, Auburn, AL 36849 USA								43							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700011	25	Article; Article		
J	Wadsworth, Danielle D.; Rudisill, Mary E.; Hastie, Peter A.; Irwin, Jacqueline M.; Rodriguez-Hernandez, Mynor G.								Preschoolers' Physical Activity Participation Across a Yearlong Mastery-Motivational Climate Intervention								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			339	345		10.1080/02701367.2017.1321099			2017	2017	Purpose: This study sought to determine how children's participation in physical activity during a mastery-motivational climate changed during a 20-week intervention and to compare it to children's free-play activity during a typical day at their local day-care facility. Method: Twelve 4-year-old children participated in a mastery-motivational climate physical activity program delivered 2 days a week for 20 weeks during a period of 8 months. All children were fitted with an Actigraph GT3X triaxial accelerometer. Data from the accelerometers were reduced to determine minutes of sedentary time, light physical activity, and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) during (a) all 20 weeks, and (b) Weeks 1 through 4, Weeks 9 through 12, and Weeks 17 to 20 for the mastery climate. Activity levels in the mastery condition were compared to the children's activity during unplanned free play in Weeks 1, 10, and 20. Results: During the course of the mastery-motivational climate program, participation in sedentary behavior decreased statistically significantly, while participation in MVPA increased statistically significantly. Within the free-play condition, there were no changes in the levels of activity across time, with the children spending on average more than 80% of their time being sedentary. Conclusions: Findings indicate that when specific task structures associated with a mastery climate are included in an instructional setting, these climate manipulations seem to have a direct effect on physical activity levels once the children learned how to manage themselves in the setting. Free-play activity in and of itself does not appear to stimulate MVPA.		[Wadsworth, Danielle D.; Rudisill, Mary E.; Hastie, Peter A.; Irwin, Jacqueline M.; Rodriguez-Hernandez, Mynor G.] Auburn Univ, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Hastie, Peter A.] Auburn Univ, Sch Kinesiol, 301 Wire Rd, Auburn, AL 36849 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700010	21	Article; Article		
J	Mercier, Kevin; Donovan, Corinne; Gibbone, Anne; Rozga, Kimberly								Three-Year Study of Students' Attitudes Toward Physical Education: Grades 4-8								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			307	315		10.1080/02701367.2017.1339862			2017	2017	Purpose: A relationship exists between attitudes toward physical education and future physical activity. The purpose of this study was to examine changes in attitude toward physical education as students progressed from upper elementary school (Grade 4) through middle school (Grade 8). Method: Three cohorts of students (Cohort 1, Grades 4-6, n = 96; Cohort 2, Grades 5-7, n = 71; and Cohort 3, Grades 6-8, n = 73) were each followed for 3 years to examine changes in attitudes toward physical education. Results: After an initial increase from Grade 4 to Grade 5, a significant decrease was observed from Grades 5 to 8 in students' positive attitudes toward physical education, with a faster rate of change for girls than boys. Conclusion: This longitudinal study provides further insights regarding the attitudes of students as they progress from Grade 4 to Grade 8 and expands on previous findings identifying decreasing positive attitudes toward physical education as students age, particularly for girls. The results provide evidence to support targeted interventions.		[Mercier, Kevin; Donovan, Corinne; Gibbone, Anne; Rozga, Kimberly] Adelphi Univ, Garden City, NY 11530 USA; [Mercier, Kevin] Adelphi Univ, Dept Exercise Sci Hlth Studies Phys Educ & Sport, 166 Woodruff Hall, Garden City, NY 11530 USA								45							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700007	35	Article; Article		
J	Jette, Shannon; Maier, Julie; Esmonde, Katelyn; Davis, Cherise								Promoting Prenatal Exercise From a Sociocultural and Life-Course Perspective: An "Embodied" Conceptual Framework								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			269	281		10.1080/02701367.2017.1336662			2017	2017	Purpose: Prenatal exercise is a health behavior that is receiving growing attention amid concern that women in Western societies are gaining excess weight during pregnancy and contributing to future obesity in both the mother and child. In this article, we draw on insights from the fields of social epidemiology and social theory of the body to examine existing prenatal exercise interventions and to propose a multidimensional framework intended to guide future theorizing and intervention design. Method: A scoping review of existing prenatal exercise programs and interventions focused on controlling gestational weight gain was conducted. Articles published prior to January 2017 were obtained from PubMed and CINAHL, and relevant articles were identified (n = 62) using specified inclusion and exclusion criteria. Identified articles were further analyzed to classify the level(s) of the socioecological model targeted in the intervention or program. Results: The majority of existing interventions target intrapersonal factors during pregnancy and do not attend to the role that cumulative exposure of social and structural disadvantage over the lifetime-not just during the prenatal period-plays in shaping health outcomes. In response, a multidimensional framework is proposed that includes key concepts that facilitate a life-course perspective, as well as attention to the integration of biological and social factors as they relate to health and health-related behaviors. Conclusion: Efforts to promote prenatal exercise and to improve maternal and infant health should attend to how systemic inequality impacts women's health.		[Jette, Shannon; Maier, Julie; Esmonde, Katelyn; Davis, Cherise] Univ Maryland, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Jette, Shannon] Univ Maryland, Dept Kinesiol, 2351 SPH Bldg,4200 Valley Dr, College Pk, MD 20742 USA								6							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700004	64	Article; Article		
J	Bassett-Gunter, Rebecca; Rhodes, Ryan; Sweet, Shane; Tristani, Lauren; Soltani, Yasaman								Parent Support for Children's Physical Activity: A Qualitative Investigation of Barriers and Strategies								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	3			282	292		10.1080/02701367.2017.1332735			2017	2017	Purpose: Parents play an important role in supporting children's physical activity (PA) behavior. Parent PA support is a behavior unto itself that has been examined within the framework of an adapted theory of planned behavior (TPB). The primary purpose of this research was to identify key barriers to parent PA support to understand perceptions of control in relation to parent PA support. The second purpose of this research was to identify potential strategies to enhance parent PA support via enhanced perceived behavioral control. Method: Focus groups were conducted with parents (N = 21) of children aged 5 to 11 years old. A deductive content analysis was employed to analyze the data guided by an adapted TPB. Results: Themes related to barriers included parents' motivation, affective experiences in providing PA support, and control factors (e. g., cost, time, safety concerns, screen). Themes related to potential strategies included opportunities for participation and improved affective experiences for parents, community parenting, and self-regulatory strategies. Conclusion: The identification of specific barriers to parent PA support can guide the development of interventions to facilitate parent PA support. Informational, programming, and self-regulatory training interventions may be useful in enhancing parent support.		[Bassett-Gunter, Rebecca; Tristani, Lauren; Soltani, Yasaman] York Univ, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Rhodes, Ryan] Univ Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada; [Sweet, Shane] McGill Univ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Bassett-Gunter, Rebecca] York Univ, Sch Kinesiol & Hlth Sci, 310 Stong Coll, Toronto, ON M3P 1J3, Canada								31							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407593700005	34	Article; Article		
J	Hansen, Clint; Martin, Caroline; Rezzoug, Nasser; Gorce, Philippe; Bideau, Benoit; Isableu, Brice								Sequence-dependent rotation axis changes in tennis								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	3			411	423		10.1080/14763141.2017.1332237			2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of rotation axes during a tennis serve. A motion capture system was used to evaluate the contribution of the potential axes of rotation (minimum inertia axis, shoulder-centre of mass axis and the shoulder-elbow axis) during the four discrete tennis serve phases (loading, cocking, acceleration and follow through). Ten ranked athletes (International Tennis Number 1-3) repeatedly performed a flat service aiming at a target on the other side of the net. The four serve phases are distinct and thus, each movement phase seems to be organised around specific rotation axes. The results showed that the limbs' rotational axis does not necessarily coincide with the minimum inertia axis across the cocking phase of the tennis serve. Even though individual serving strategies were exposed, all participants showed an effect due to the cocking phase and changed the rotation axis during the task. Taken together, the results showed that despite inter-individual differences, nine out of 10 participants changed the rotation axis towards the minimum inertia and/or the mass axis in an endeavour to maximise external rotation of the shoulder to optimally prepare for the acceleration phase.		[Hansen, Clint] Univ Kiel, Dept Neurol, Kiel, Germany; [Martin, Caroline; Bideau, Benoit] Rennes 2 Univ, Lab M2S, Rennes, France; [Rezzoug, Nasser; Gorce, Philippe] Univ Toulon & Var, HandBio, La Garde, France; [Isableu, Brice] Aix Marseille Univ, PSYCLE, Aix En Provence, France; [Hansen, Clint] Univ Kiel, Dept Neurol, Kiel, Germany								2							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407059400010	57	Article; Article		
J	Takagi, Tokio; Yokozawa, Toshiharu; Inaba, Yuki; Matsuda, Yuji; Shiraki, Hitoshi								Relationships between clubshaft motions and clubface orientation during the golf swing								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	3			387	398		10.1080/14763141.2017.1328528			2017	2017	Since clubface orientation at impact affects ball direction and ball spin, the ability to control clubface orientation is one of the most important skills for golfers. This study presents a new method to describe clubface orientation as a function of the clubshaft motions (i.e., swing plane orientation, clubshaft angle in the swing plane, and clubshaft rolling angle) during a golf swing and investigates the relationships between the clubshaft motions and clubface orientation at impact. The club motion data of driver shots were collected from eight skilled golfers using a three-dimensional motion capture system. The degrees of influence of the clubshaft motions on the clubface orientation were investigated using sensitivity analysis. The sensitivity analysis revealed that the swing plane horizontal angle affected the clubface horizontal angle to an extent of 100%, that the clubshaft angle in the swing plane affected both the clubface vertical and horizontal angles to extents of 74 and 68%, respectively, and that the clubshaft rolling angle affected both the clubface vertical and horizontal angles to extents of -67 and 75%, respectively. Since the method presented here relates clubface orientation to clubshaft motions, it is useful for understanding the clubface control of a golfer.		[Takagi, Tokio; Yokozawa, Toshiharu; Inaba, Yuki; Matsuda, Yuji] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Shiraki, Hitoshi] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Takagi, Tokio] Japan Inst Sports Sci, Dept Sports Sci, Tokyo, Japan								1							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407059400008	21	Article; Article		
J	Keogh, Justin W. L.; Gowthorp, Lisa; McLean, Michelle								Perceptions of sport science students on the potential applications and limitations of blended learning in their education: a qualitative study								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	3			297	312		10.1080/14763141.2017.1305439			2017	2017	This study sought to gain insight into blended learning-naive sports science students' understanding and perceptions of the potential benefits and limitations of blended (hybrid) learning, which has been defined as the thoughtful integration of face-to-face and online instructional approaches. Five focus groups, each comprising 3-4 students from either the undergraduate or postgraduate sports science programmes were conducted. The focus groups were facilitated by a researcher who was not involved in sports science. Audio recordings of the focus groups were transcribed verbatim. NVivo software was used to code the transcripts to identify the themes and subthemes. Students generally had little initial understanding of blended learning. When provided with a definition, they believed that blended learning could improve educational outcomes and assist those who were legitimately unable to attend a session. Their reservations about blended learning mainly related to some students not being sufficiently autonomous to undertake independent study, timetabling considerations and access to reliable Internet services. For blended learning to be effective, students felt the online material had to be interactive, engaging and complement the face-to-face sessions. Better understanding the perceptions of the students in the current study may assist educators who are considering implementing blended learning in their teaching.		[Keogh, Justin W. L.; Gowthorp, Lisa; McLean, Michelle] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Cluster Hlth Improvement, Fac Sci Hlth Educ & Engn, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] Bond Univ, Fac Hlth Sci & Med, Gold Coast, Australia; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] AUT Univ, Sports Performance Res Inst New Zealand, Auckland, New Zealand; [Keogh, Justin W. L.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Cluster Hlth Improvement, Fac Sci Hlth Educ & Engn, Sippy Downs, Qld, Australia								21							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407059400002	35	Article; Article		
J	Park, Sang-Kyoon; Lam, Wing-Kai; Yoon, Sukhoon; Lee, Ki-Kwang; Ryu, Jiseon								Effects of forefoot bending stiffness of badminton shoes on agility, comfort perception and lower leg kinematics during typical badminton movements								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	3			374	386		10.1080/14763141.2017.1321037			2017	2017	This study investigated whether an increase in the forefoot bending stiffness of a badminton shoe would positively affect agility, comfort and biomechanical variables during badminton-specific movements. Three shoe conditions with identical shoe upper and sole designs with different bending stiffness (Flexible, Regular and Stiff) were used. Elite male badminton players completed an agility test on a standard badminton court involving consecutive lunges in six directions, a comfort test performed by a pair of participants conducting a game-like practice trial and a biomechanics test involving a random assignment of consecutive right forward lunges. No significant differences were found in agility time and biomechanical variables among the three shoes. The players wearing the shoe with a flexible forefoot outsole demonstrated a decreased perception of comfort in the forefoot cushion compared to regular and stiffer conditions during the comfort test (p<0.05). The results suggested that the modification of forefoot bending stiffness would influence individual perception of comfort but would not influence performance and lower extremity kinematics during the tested badminton-specific tasks. It was concluded that an optimisation of forefoot structure and materials in badminton shoes should consider the individual's perception to maximise footwear comfort in performance.		[Park, Sang-Kyoon; Yoon, Sukhoon; Ryu, Jiseon] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Mot Innovat Ctr, Seoul, South Korea; [Lam, Wing-Kai] Li Ning Sports Sci Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Lam, Wing-Kai] Shenyang Sport Univ, Dept Kinesiol, Shenyang, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Lee, Ki-Kwang] Kookmin Univ, Coll Phys Educ, Sport Engn Lab, Seoul, South Korea; [Ryu, Jiseon] Korea Natl Sport Univ, Inst Sport Sci, Mot Innovat Ctr, Seoul, South Korea								41							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407059400007	34	Article; Article		
J	Shell, Jaymee R.; Robbins, Shawn M. K.; Dixon, Philippe C.; Renaud, Philippe J.; Turcotte, Rene A.; Wu, Tom; Pearsall, David J.								Skating start propulsion: three-dimensional kinematic analysis of elite male and female ice hockey players								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	3			313	324		10.1080/14763141.2017.1306095			2017	2017	The forward skating start is a fundamental skill for male and female ice hockey players. However, performance differences by athlete's sex cannot be fully explained by physiological variables; hence, other factors such as skating technique warrant examination. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to evaluate the body movement kinematics of ice hockey skating starts between elite male and female ice hockey participants. Male (n=9) and female (n=10) elite ice hockey players performed five forward skating start accelerations. An 18-camera motion capture system placed on the arena ice surface captured full-body kinematics during the first seven skating start steps within 15meters. Males' maximum skating speeds were greater than females. Skating technique sex differences were noted: in particular, females presented similar to 10 degrees lower hip abduction throughout skating stance as well as similar to 10 degrees greater knee extension at initial ice stance contact, conspicuously followed by a brief cessation in knee extension at the moment of ice contact, not evident in male skaters. Further study is warranted to explain why these skating technique differences exist in relation to factors such as differences in training, equipment, performance level, and anthropometrics.		[Shell, Jaymee R.; Renaud, Philippe J.; Turcotte, Rene A.; Pearsall, David J.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Fac Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M. K.] Constance Lethbridge Rehabil, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res Rehabil, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Robbins, Shawn M. K.] McGill Univ, Sch Phys & Occupat Therapy, Fac Med, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Dixon, Philippe C.] Univ Oxford, Div Math Phys & Life Sci, Dept Engn Sci, Oxford, England; [Wu, Tom] Bridgewater State Univ, Dept Movement Arts Hlth Promot & Leisure Studies, Coll Educ & Allied Studies, Bridgewater, MA USA; [Pearsall, David J.] McGill Univ, McGill Res Ctr Phys Act & Hlth, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Pearsall, David J.] McGill Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Phys Educ, Fac Educ, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Pearsall, David J.] McGill Univ, McGill Res Ctr Phys Act & Hlth, Montreal, PQ, Canada								48							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407059400003	37	Article; Article		
J	Ae, Kazumichi; Koike, Sekiya; Fujii, Norihisa; Ae, Michiyoshi; Kawamura, Takashi								Kinetic analysis of the lower limbs in baseball tee batting								SPORTS BIOMECHANICS				16	3			283	296		10.1080/14763141.2017.1284257			2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to investigate effects of the ground reaction forces on the rotation of the body as a whole and on the joint torques of the lower limbs associated with trunk and pelvic rotation in baseball tee batting. A total of 22 male collegiate baseball players participated in this study. Three-dimensional coordinate data were acquired by a motion capture system (250Hz), and ground reaction forces of both legs were measured with three force platforms (1,000Hz). Kinetic data were used to calculate the moment about the vertical axis through the body's centre of mass resulting from ground reaction forces, as well as to calculate the torque and mechanical work in the lower limb joints. The lateral/medial ground reaction force generated by both legs resulted in the large whole body moment about its vertical axis. The joint torques of flexion/extension of both hips, adduction of the stride hip and extension of the stride knee produced significantly larger mechanical work than did the other joint torques. To obtain high bat-head speed, the batter should push both legs in the lateral/medial direction by utilising both hips and stride knee torques so as to increase the whole body rotation.		[Ae, Kazumichi] Univ Tsukuba, Sports Res & Dev Core, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Koike, Sekiya; Fujii, Norihisa; Kawamura, Takashi] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Hlth & Sport Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; [Ae, Michiyoshi] Nippon Sport Sci Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Setagaya Ku, Tokyo, Japan; [Ae, Kazumichi] Univ Tsukuba, Sports Res & Dev Core, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan								22							Engineering, Biomedical; Sport Sciences	WOS:000407059400001	24	Article; Article		
J	Oh, Taeyeon; Sung, Hojun; Kwon, Kisung Dennis								Effect of the stadium occupancy rate on perceived game quality and visit intention								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	2			166	179		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2017-088			2017	2017	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the impact of the stadium occupancy rate on television viewers' game quality perception and stadium visit intention (VI). Design/methodology/approach - An experiment was conducted in which two groups were asked to watch video clips of professional soccer games with low- and high-stadium occupancy rates. Findings - The results indicate that the higher the stadium occupancy, the higher is perceived game quality and the greater is stadium VI. Originality/value - The paper provides useful information on the effect of the stadium occupancy rate on perceived game quality and VI.		[Oh, Taeyeon; Sung, Hojun; Kwon, Kisung Dennis] Seoul Natl Univ, Grad Sch, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea; [Kwon, Kisung Dennis] Seoul Natl Univ, Grad Sch, Dept Phys Educ, Seoul, South Korea								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000402917000003	63	Article; Article		
J	Leng, Ho Keat								Sponsor recall in sports events of short duration: empirical evidence from swimming competitions								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	2			138	148		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2017-091			2017	2017	Purpose - The majority of sponsorship studies were conducted on sports events of a long duration. Given that sponsor recall is affected by duration of exposure, the purpose of this paper is to examine whether sponsorship of an event of a shorter duration can be equally effective. Design/methodology/approach - In total, 241 respondents were randomly distributed to one control group and three experimental groups. In all groups, respondents were tasked to watch a video clip of a swimming event lasting less than ten minutes. Findings - In the control group (n = 74), the mean number of correctly recalled brands was 2.26 (SD = 1.31). This was comparable to the mean number of recalled brands in earlier studies on sports events of longer duration. In experimental group 1 (n = 37), respondents watched a video clip without the logos of the sponsors along the length of the pool. The findings suggest that signages along the competition arena may have limited effect on the recall rate and that brand prominence affects the recall rate. In experimental group 2 (n = 68), respondents were tasked to watch a swimming event with longer duration. In this case, the longer duration of exposure led to a significantly higher number of brands recalled (M = 2.94, SD = 1.36) as compared to the control group. In experimental group 3 (n = 62), respondents were tasked to focus on the swimming event. When spectators were more involved in the swimming event, there was a significant decrease in the number of brands recalled (M = 1.87, SD = 1.35) when compared to the control group. The results from experimental groups 2 and 3 suggest that duration of exposure and spectator involvement affects the recall rate of sponsors. Research limitations/implications - The findings suggest that sponsorship of sports events with a short duration can be as effective as longer events although this is dependent on the prominence of the sponsor, duration of the event and spectator involvement. Practical implications - Given that many sports events are now broadcasted on YouTube and other social media where the duration is typically short, it suggests that sponsors may also benefit from sports events that are broadcasted on these platforms. Originality/value - The paper provides useful information on sponsor recall and its relationship to duration of exposure.		[Leng, Ho Keat] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore; [Leng, Ho Keat] Nanyang Technol Univ, Natl Inst Educ, Singapore, Singapore								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000402917000001	35	Article; Article		
J	Parganas, Petros; Anagnostopoulos, Christos; Chadwick, Simon								Effects of social media interactions on brand associations								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	2			149	165		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2017-087			2017	2017	Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to examine the effects of social media in brand associations, particularly in regard to soccer fan clubs. Design/methodology/approach - The study used a professional English Premier League soccer team to investigate the effects that social media interaction had on brand associations of the team's fan clubs in two national contexts - England and Greece. Findings - In total, 207 online questionnaires from six fan clubs were collected and analyzed using descriptive and inferential (t- tests and inverted iota(2) tests) statistics. Originality/value - The results revealed similarities on Facebook in terms of positive receptions of brand attributes and resonance of perceived brand benefits, while significant differences were observed on Twitter, particularly in terms of brand benefits.		[Parganas, Petros] Univ Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Molde Univ Coll, Molde, Norway; [Chadwick, Simon] Univ Salford, Salford Business Sch, Salford, Lancs, England; [Anagnostopoulos, Christos] Molde Univ Coll, Molde, Norway								37							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000402917000002	62	Article; Article		
J	Giroux, Marilyn; Pons, Frank; Maltese, Lionel								The role of perceived brand personality in promotion effectiveness and brand equity development of professional sports teams								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	2			180	195		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2017-092			2017	2017	Purpose - In the highly saturated sports industry where sport teams represent a complex offering loaded with intangible and tangible attributes, it is important to implement appropriate marketing strategies that will ultimately contribute to the development of strong brand equity. In this paper, the authors focused on the relationship between brand variables and marketing activities on the development of brand equity. More specifically, the purpose of this paper is to study the impact of brand personality on the evaluation of marketing promotional activities and the impact on the brand equity. Design/methodology/approach - Respondents (2,400) were recruited through an online survey and data were analyzed using structural equation modeling. Findings - The survey revealed that the congruence between the brand personality and the promotional activities has a positive impact on its evaluation and on brand equity. In addition, the results showed that consumers who consider the financial strength of the team as an important factor evaluate more positively the value of congruent and incongruent promotional activities. Originality/value - The results contribute to the literature by investigating the impact of brand personality on the evaluation of promotional activities. Also, it examines an important factor (financial consciousness) that could influence how fans react in front of an incongruent promotional activity. This research brings a better understanding of the impact of brand personality on marketing strategies and brand equity.		[Giroux, Marilyn] Auckland Univ Technol, Mkt Advertising Retailing & Sales, Auckland, New Zealand; [Pons, Frank; Maltese, Lionel] Kedge Business Sch, Marseille, France; [Pons, Frank] Univ Laval, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Maltese, Lionel] Aix Marseille Univ, CERGAM, Marseille, France; [Pons, Frank] Kedge Business Sch, Marseille, France; [Pons, Frank] Univ Laval, Quebec City, PQ, Canada								26							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000402917000004	89	Article; Article		
J	Anderson, Lindsey J.; Baker, Lucinda L.; Schroeder, E. Todd								Blunted Myoglobin and Quadriceps Soreness After Electrical Stimulation During the Luteal Phase or Oral Contraception								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	2			193	202		10.1080/02701367.2017.1300229			2017	2017	Purpose: Acute muscle damage after exercise triggers subsequent regeneration, leading to hypertrophy and increased strength after repeated exercise. It has been debated whether acute exercise-induced muscle damage is altered under various premenopausal estrogen conditions. Acute contraction-induced muscle damage was compared during exogenous (oral contraceptive, OC), endogenous (luteal phase, HI), or low (menses, LO) estrogen in healthy young women aged 21 to 30 years old. Methods: Women (OC, n = 9; HI, n = 9; LO, n = 8; total N = 26) performed 1 neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) bout. Soreness, measured via visual analog scale and the Likert Scale of Muscle Soreness for Lower Limb (LSMSLL), quadriceps strength, and plasma myoglobin (Mb), interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, and granulocyte-colony stimulating factor were measured before and after NMES. Results: NMES performance was similar across groups. Meaningful within-group increases in Mb (effect size [ES] = 1.12) and IL-8 (ES = 0.38) occurred in LO; ES for HI and OC were trivial. ES of the between-group difference in change was moderate for Mb (LO vs. HI = 1.15) and IL-8 (LO vs. HI = 0.86; LO vs. OC = 0.73). 17-beta estradiol correlated moderately and negatively with Mb relative change (r = -.52, p < .05). LO had similar to 5% greater strength loss than OC and HI. The mean change score for the LSMSLL 2 days post-NMES was clinically greater in LO than OC or HI. Conclusions: Acute NMES-induced indicators of muscle fiber damage and qualitative muscle soreness may be attenuated during the luteal phase or active OC pill consumption compared with the menstrual phase.		[Anderson, Lindsey J.; Baker, Lucinda L.; Schroeder, E. Todd] Univ Southern Calif, Los Angeles, CA 90033 USA; [Anderson, Lindsey J.] Univ Southern Calif, Div Biokinesiol & Phys Therapy, Clin Exercise Res Ctr, 1540 E Alcazar,St CHP 155, Los Angeles, CA 90033 USA								13							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000401116500006	30	Article; Article		
J	Sidaway, Ben; Bouchard, Matthew; Chasse, Julie; Dunn, Jonathan; Govoni, Andrea; McPherson, Breanne; Roy, Katherine; Anderson, David I.								The Role of Postural Support in Young Adults' Control of Stationary Kicking								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	2			215	222		10.1080/02701367.2017.1303134			2017	2017	Purpose: The requirement for postural stability during the performance of motor skills has been clearly demonstrated in infants, but the necessity for such a postural substrate is not well documented in adults. The present study investigated the role of postural stability during a ballistic ball-kicking task in adults by providing varying degrees of external postural support. Method: In the 1st experiment, 30 participants performed 20 maximal-velocity kicks under each of 3 conditions: grasping a rigid stable handle, light fingertip touch, and grasping a suspended elastic tube. A 2nd experiment with 16 participants varied the position of the stable handle to examine if the handle position in Experiment 1 might simply act as a fulcrum to enhance torque generation. Results: In Experiment 1, ball velocity was significantly higher in the stable-grasp condition in both men and women with the men showing greater improvement relative to the other conditions. Experiment 2 showed that the position of the stable handle did not significantly affect kicking velocity, indicating that the handle was not simply acting as a fulcrum during the kick. Conclusion: Together, the findings suggest that postural stability may be a rate limiter in the performance of dynamic motor tasks in adults.		[Sidaway, Ben; Bouchard, Matthew; Chasse, Julie; Dunn, Jonathan; Govoni, Andrea; McPherson, Breanne; Roy, Katherine] Husson Univ, Bangor, ME 04401 USA; [Anderson, David I.] San Francisco State Univ, San Francisco, CA 94132 USA; [Sidaway, Ben] Husson Univ, Sch Phys Therapy, One Coll Circle, Bangor, ME 04401 USA								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000401116500009	35	Article; Article		
J	Lee, Paul H.								Examining the Error of Mis-Specifying Nonlinear Confounding Effect With Application on Accelerometer-Measured Physical Activity								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	2			203	208		10.1080/02701367.2017.1296101			2017	2017	Purpose: Some confounders are nonlinearly associated with dependent variables, but they are often adjusted using a linear term. The purpose of this study was to examine the error of mis-specifying the nonlinear confounding effect. Methods: We carried out a simulation study to investigate the effect of adjusting for a nonlinear confounder in the estimation of a causal relationship between the exposure and outcome in 3 ways: using a linear term, binning into 5 equal-size categories, or using a restricted cubic spline of the confounder. Continuous, binary, and survival outcomes were simulated. We examined the confounder across varying measurement error. In addition, we performed a real data analysis examining the 3 strategies to handle the nonlinear effects of accelerometer-measured physical activity in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2003-2006 data. Results: The mis-specification of a nonlinear confounder had little impact on causal effect estimation for continuous outcomes. For binary and survival outcomes, this mis-specification introduced bias, which could be eliminated using spline adjustment only when there is small measurement error of the confounder. Real data analysis showed that the associations between high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and diabetes and mortality adjusted for physical activity with restricted cubic spline were about 3% to 11% larger than their counterparts adjusted with a linear term. Conclusion: For continuous outcomes, confounders with nonlinear effects can be adjusting with a linear term. Spline adjustment should be used for binary and survival outcomes on confounders with small measurement error.		[Lee, Paul H.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Lee, Paul H.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Sch Nursing, GH527, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								1							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000401116500007	21	Article; Article		
J	Gabriel Lucas-Cuevas, Angel; Priego Quesada, Jose Ignacio; Vicente Gimenez, Jose; Aparicio, Inmaculada; Manuel Cortell-Tormo, Juan; Perez-Soriano, Pedro								Can Graduated Compressive Stockings Reduce Muscle Activity During Running?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	2			223	229		10.1080/02701367.2017.1294726			2017	2017	Purpose: Graduated compressive stockings (GCS) have been suggested to influence performance by reducing muscle oscillations and improving muscle function and efficiency. However, no study to date has analyzed the influence of GCS on muscle activity during running. The objective of the study was to analyze the influence of GCS on the perception of comfort and muscle activation of the main muscles of the lower leg during running. Method: Thirty-six participants ran on a treadmill with (GCS) or without (control) GCS. The running tests consisted of a 10-min warm-up followed by a 20-min intense run at 75% of the athlete's maximal aerobic speed. Surface electromyography of the tibialis anterior, peroneus longus, gastrocnemius lateralis (GL), and gastrocnemius medialis (GM) were recorded every 5 min during the run and analyzed using a non-linearly scaled wavelet analysis. Perception of comfort of the GCS was measured before and after the run. Results: The GCS were reported as comfortable garments and reduced GL activity at Minute 0 (p < .05, eta(2)(p) = .245) and Minute 5 (p < .05, eta(2)(p) = .326) and GM activity at Minute 0 (p < .05, eta(2)(p) = .233) compared with running without garments, but their effect was temporary and disappeared after 5 min of running. Conclusion: Even though GCS reduced gastrocnemius muscle activity during the initial minutes of running, it is hypothesized that the GCS could have lost their initial levels of compression after some minutes of exercise, thereby reducing their influence on muscle activation. However, this hypothesis needs to be further investigated.		[Gabriel Lucas-Cuevas, Angel; Priego Quesada, Jose Ignacio; Vicente Gimenez, Jose; Aparicio, Inmaculada; Perez-Soriano, Pedro] Univ Valencia, Valencia, Spain; [Manuel Cortell-Tormo, Juan] Univ Alicante, Alicante, Spain; [Gabriel Lucas-Cuevas, Angel] Univ Valencia, Dept Phys Educ & Sports, C Gasco Oliag 3, Valencia 46010, Spain								9							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000401116500010	31	Article; Article		
J	Mitchell, Lachlan J.; Argus, Christos K.; Taylor, Kristie-Lee; Sheppard, Jeremy M.; Chapman, Dale W.								The Effect of Initial Knee Angle on Concentric-Only Squat Jump Performance								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	2			184	192		10.1080/02701367.2017.1293777			2017	2017	Purpose: There is uncertainty as to which knee angle during a squat jump (SJ) produces maximal jump performance. Importantly, understanding this information will aid in determining appropriate ratios for assessment and monitoring of the explosive characteristics of athletes. Method: This study compared SJ performance across different knee angles-90 degrees, 100 degrees, 110 degrees, 120 degrees, 130 degrees, and a self-selected depth-for jump height and other kinetic characteristics. For comparison between SJ and an unconstrained dynamic movement, participants also performed a countermovement jump from a self-selected depth. Thirteen participants (M-age = 25.4 +/- 3.5 years, M-height = 1.8 +/- 0.06m, M-weight = 79.8 +/- 9.5 kg) were recruited and tested for their SJ performance. Results: In the SJ, maximal jump height (35.4 +/- 4.6 cm) was produced using a self-selected knee angle (98.7 +/- 11.2 degrees). Differences between 90 degrees, 100 degrees, and self-selected knee angles for jump height were trivial (ES +/- 90% CL = 90 degrees-100 degrees 0.23 +/- 0.12, 90 degrees-SS -0.04 +/- 0.12, 100 degrees-SS -0.27 +/- 0.20; 0.5-2.4 cm) and not statistically different. Differences between all other knee angles for jump height ranged from 3.8 +/- 2.0 cm (mean +/- 90% CL) to 16.6 +/- 2.2 cm. A similar outcome to jump height was observed for velocity, force relative to body weight, and impulse for the assessed knee angles. Conclusions: For young physically active adult men, the use of a self-selected depth in the SJ results in optimal performance and has only a trivial difference to a constrained knee angle of either 90 degrees or 100 degrees.		[Mitchell, Lachlan J.; Chapman, Dale W.] Australian Inst Sport, Bruce, ACT, Australia; [Mitchell, Lachlan J.; Argus, Christos K.] Univ Canberra, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Argus, Christos K.] Brumbies Super Rugby, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Taylor, Kristie-Lee] Cycling Australia, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Sheppard, Jeremy M.; Chapman, Dale W.] Edith Cowan Univ, Churchlands, WA, Australia; [Mitchell, Lachlan J.] Queensland Acad Sport, Performance Sci, Western Stand Queensland Sports & Athlet Ctr, Kessells Rd, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia								27							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000401116500005	23	Article; Article		
J	Celik, Haluk; Seckin, Mustafa Faik; Kara, Adnan; Akman, Senol								Isolated HAGL lesion after arthroscopic Bankart repair in a professional soccer player								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			199	202		10.1080/00913847.2017.1309955			2017	2017	Post-traumatic anterior shoulder instability commonly occurs following an avulsion of capsulolabral complex from glenoid (Bankart lesion) or rarely after humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligaments (HAGL lesion). Arthroscopic Bankart repair offers high success rates of healing. However, trauma following the treatment may cause implant failure or re-avulsion of the treated tissue. We aim to present the diagnosis and treatment of an isolated HAGL lesion in a professional soccer player who had previously undergone arthroscopic Bankart repair.		[Celik, Haluk] Zonguldak Ataturk State Hosp, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, Zonguldak, Turkey; [Seckin, Mustafa Faik] Istanbul Bilim Univ, Fac Med, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, Istanbul, Turkey; [Kara, Adnan] Istanbul Medipol Univ, Fac Med, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, Istanbul, Turkey; [Akman, Senol] Florance Nightingale Hosp, Dept Orthopaed & Traumatol, Istanbul, Turkey; [Celik, Haluk] Kapuz Cad Turkuaz Apt 28-10, TR-67030 Zonguldak, Turkey								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300022	21	Article; Article		
J	Vieira, Amilton; Alex, Savio; Martorelli, Andre; Brown, Lee E.; Moreira, Ricardo; Bottaro, Martim								Lower-extremity isokinetic strength ratios of elite springboard and platform diving athletes								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			87	91		10.1080/00913847.2017.1302310			2017	2017	Objectives: The purpose of the present study was to examine knee extensor and flexor muscle strength ratios of an elite group of diving athletes. Methods: Sixteen divers (10 females and 6 males) from the Brazil national team were assessed for lower-body strength. They had participated in international competitions such as the 2016 Olympic Games and 2015 Pan American Games. The dynamic concentric torque of their knee flexor and extensor muscles were evaluated using a Biodex isokinetic dynamometer. Bilateral tests were performed at 60 degrees s(-1). Flexor to extensor (F/E) peak torque ratio and percentage bilateral difference (BD%) was also measured. Results: The results revealed that elite diving athletes produced higher than usual reported in previous studies for relative knee extension torque (3.2 for females and 3.6 for males N.m.kg(-1)). However, they presented low levels of knee flexor torque (1.5 for females and 1.8 for males N.m.kg(-1)). These results are reflected in a low F/E ratio (0.39 to 0.49). Males presented a greater BD% in knee flexors when compared to females (12.4% vs 6.6%). Conclusion: Elite diving athletes demonstrated high knee extensor and low knee flexor strength. This partially explains their low F/E ratio, which might increase risk of knee injuries. Strength and conditioning programs should strive to correct knee strength imbalances in diving athletes where necessary.		[Vieira, Amilton; Alex, Savio; Martorelli, Andre; Moreira, Ricardo; Bottaro, Martim] Univ Brasilia, Coll Phys Educ, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Vieira, Amilton] Univ Ctr Fed Dist, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Brown, Lee E.] Calif State Univ Fullerton, Dept Kinesiol, Fullerton, CA 92634 USA; [Moreira, Ricardo] Brazilian Swimming Confederat, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Vieira, Amilton] SQN 402,Bloco D,Apartamento 308 Asa Norte, BR-70834040 Brasilia, DF, Brazil								6							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300004	33	Article; Article		
J	Matsuura, Tetsuya; Iwame, Toshiyuki; Suzue, Naoto; Arisawa, Kokichi; Sairyo, Koichi								Risk factors for shoulder and elbow pain in youth baseball players								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			140	144		10.1080/00913847.2017.1300505			2017	2017	Objectives: This study sought to quantify the 1-year cumulative incidence of shoulder and elbow pain among youth baseball players and identify risk factors associated with the occurrence of shoulder and elbow pain. Methods: In total, 900 youth baseball players (aged 7-11 years) were enrolled in a 1-year prospective follow-up study. One year later, the players were asked whether they had experienced episodes of shoulder or elbow pain and the following risk factors for such pain were investigated: age, position, length of baseball experience, training hours per week, and history of shoulder or elbow pain. Data for the groups with and without shoulder or elbow pain were analyzed using multivariate logistic regression models. Results: Episodes of shoulder pain were reported by 18.3% of players and episodes of elbow pain were reported by 35.2% of players. Multivariate analysis showed that shoulder pain was associated with pitcher position, catcher position, longer training hours per week, and history of shoulder and elbow pain, and that elbow pain was associated with age, pitcher position, catcher position, longer training hours per week, and history of elbow pain. Length of baseball experience was not associated with shoulder or elbow pain. Conclusion: History of elbow pain, pitcher position, catcher position, and longer training hours per week were associated with both types of pain. History of shoulder pain was associated with shoulder pain but not elbow pain. Age was associated with elbow pain but not shoulder pain.		[Matsuura, Tetsuya; Iwame, Toshiyuki; Sairyo, Koichi] Tokushima Univ, Inst Biomed Sci, Dept Orthoped, Grad Sch, 3-18-15 Kuramoto, Tokushima 7708503, Japan; [Suzue, Naoto] Tokushima Red Cross Hosp, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Tokushima, Japan; [Arisawa, Kokichi] Tokushima Univ, Inst Biomed Sci, Dept Prevent Med, Grad Sch, Tokushima, Japan; [Matsuura, Tetsuya] Tokushima Univ, Inst Biomed Sci, Dept Orthoped, Grad Sch, 3-18-15 Kuramoto, Tokushima 7708503, Japan								41							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300013	16	Article; Article		
J	Mi, Bobin; Liu, Guohui; Zhou, Wu; Lv, Huijuan; Liu, Yi; Wu, Qipeng; Liu, Jing								Platelet rich plasma versus steroid on lateral epicondylitis: meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			97	104		10.1080/00913847.2017.1297670			2017	2017	Objectives: Lateral epicondylitis (LE) is a common tendinopathy for which an effective treatment is still unknown. The purpose of this meta-analysis was to compare the effectiveness of platelet rich plasma (PRP) vs steroid in reducing pain and improving function of the elbow in the treatment of LE. Methods: A systematic search of the literature was conducted to identify related articles published from January 1980 to September 2016 in Pubmed, Embase, the Cochrane Library and SpringerLink. All studies that compared PRP with steroid administration on LE were included. Main outcomes were collected and analyzed by the Review Manager 5.1. Results: Eight randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that involved 511 patients met the criteria. This meta-analysis showed that there was no significant difference in pain relief in the short-term (2 to 4 weeks: SMD = 1.02, P = .03; 6 to 8 weeks: SMD = .73, P = .24) and the intermediate-term (12 weeks: SMD = -0.28, P = .35). Steroid exhibited a better efficacy of function in the short-term (2 to 4 weeks: SMD = .61, P < .001; 6 to 8 weeks: SMD= .53, P < .001). However, PRP was superior to steroid for pain relief in the long-term(half year: SMD= -1.6, P < .001; one year: SMD= -1.45, P < .001), and also for function improving in the intermediate-term (12 weeks: SMD = -0.53, P < .001) and the long-term (half year: SMD = -0.56, P < .001; one year: SMD = -0.7, P < .001). No serious adverse effects of treatment were observed in the two groups. Conclusion: Treatment of patients with LE by steroid could slightly relieve pain and significantly improve function of elbow in the short-term (2 to 4 weeks, 6 to 8 weeks). PRP appears to be more effective in relieving pain and improving function in the intermediate-term (12 weeks) and long-term (half year and one year). Considering the long-term effectiveness of PRP, we recommend PRP as the preferred option for LE.		[Mi, Bobin; Liu, Guohui; Zhou, Wu; Liu, Yi; Wu, Qipeng; Liu, Jing] Huazhong Univ Sci & Technol, Union Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Tongji Med Coll, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Lv, Huijuan] Fourth Mil Med Univ, Tangdu Hosp, Dept Rheumatol, Xian, Peoples R China; [Liu, Guohui] Huazhong Univ Sci & Technol, Union Hosp, Dept Orthoped, Jiefang 1277, Wuhan, Peoples R China								52							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300006	39	Article; Article		
J	Sanchez-Urena, Braulio; Martinez-Guardado, Ismael; Crespo, Carmen; Timon, Rafael; Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio; Ibanez, Sergio J.; Olcina, Guillermo								The use of continuous vs. intermittent cold water immersion as a recovery method in basketball players after training: a randomized controlled trial								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			134	139		10.1080/00913847.2017.1292832			2017	2017	Objectives: The main objective of this study was to compare two cold water immersion protocols, continuous or intermittent, on recovery in basketball players. Methods: Ten male basketball players (age: 14 +/- 0.4 years, body mass: 65.4 +/- 9.1 kg, height: 175 +/- 7.3 cm, body fat %: 10.3 +/- 4) were included in the study. After three 90-minute training sessions (avg. heart rate 158 +/- 11.92, 156 +/- 7.06 and 151 +/- 10.44 bpm), participants were grouped into a continuous immersion (12 min at 12 +/- 0.4 degrees C) group, intermittent immersion (4 x 2 min immersion at 12 +/- 0.4 degrees C + 1 min out of water) group and a control group (CG). Countermovement jump (CMJ), muscle pain and thigh volume were measured. Results: Both cold water immersion protocols were effective in reducing the pain 24 and 48 hours after training compared with the CG (F (3.54) = 2.91, p = 0.016, eta(2)(p) = .24). Concerning CMJ change, % differences occurred at 24 (Z = 11.04, p = 0.004) and 48 hours (Z = 14.01, p < 0.001) in comparison with the CG. Regarding the muscle volume, the statistical analysis did not report a significant interaction (F (3.54) = 2.42, p = 0.058). Conclusion: Both cold water immersion CWI protocols are effective in improving recovery in basketball players.		[Sanchez-Urena, Braulio] Univ Nacl Costa Rica, Human Movement & Qual Life Sch, Heredia, Costa Rica; [Martinez-Guardado, Ismael; Crespo, Carmen; Timon, Rafael; Ibanez, Sergio J.; Olcina, Guillermo] Univ Extremadura, Fac Sorts Sci, Caceres, Spain; [Calleja-Gonzalez, Julio] Univ Basque Country, Fac Sport Sci, Vitoria, Spain; [Sanchez-Urena, Braulio] Univ Nacl Costa Rica, Human Movement & Qual Life Sch, Heredia, Costa Rica								23							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300012	40	Article; Article		
J	Wood, Susan; Harrison, Lesley K.; Kucharska, Jo								Male professional footballers' experiences of mental health difficulties and help-seeking								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			120	128		10.1080/00913847.2017.1283209			2017	2017	Objectives: Male professional footballers (soccer) represent an at-risk population of developing mental health difficulties and not accessing professional support. One in four current footballers report mental health difficulties. Higher prevalence is reported after retirement. This qualitative study aimed to provide in-depth insight into male professional footballers' lived experiences of mental health difficulties and help-seeking. Methods: Seven participants were interviewed. Data were analysed using interpretative phenomenological analysis. Results: One superordinate theme emerged; Survival'. This related to survival in the professional football world, of mental health difficulties and after transition into the real world'. Six subordinate themes are explored alongside literature pertaining to male mental health, identity, injury, transition, and emotional development. Shame, stigma, fear and level of mental health literacy (knowledge of mental health and support) were barriers to help-seeking. Conclusion: Support for professional footballers' mental wellbeing requires improvement. Recommendations are made for future research, mental health education and support.		[Wood, Susan; Harrison, Lesley K.; Kucharska, Jo] Univ Coventry, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Coventry, England; [Wood, Susan] Univ Warwick, Dept Psychol, Coventry, England; [Wood, Susan] Coventry & Warwickshire Partnership NHS Trust, Coventry, W Midlands, England; [Wood, Susan] 17 Sutton Ave, Coventry CV5 7EG, W Midlands, England								52							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300010	87	Article; Article		
J	Magrini, Danielle; Khodaee, Morteza; San-Millan, Inigo; Hew-Butler, Tamara; Provance, Aaron J.								Serum creatine kinase elevations in ultramarathon runners at high altitude								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	2			129	133		10.1080/00913847.2017.1280371			2017	2017	Objectives: Creatine kinase (CK) is a sensitive enzyme marker for muscle damage in athletes. Elevated CK levels have been reported in many endurance physical activities. The consequence and possible long-term sequela of the CK elevation in athletes is unknown. There is a paucity of literature stating actual numerical values of CK associated with competing in an ultramarathon with extreme environmental conditions. Our hypothesis was that the serum CK levels increase significantly as a result of running a 161 km ultramarathon at high altitude. Methods: This was a prospective observational study of participants of the Leadville 100 ultramarathon race in Leadville, Colorado at high altitude (2800-3840 m) in August 2014. We collected blood samples from sixty-four volunteer runners before and eighty-three runners immediately after the race. Results: Out of 669 athletes who started the race, 352 successfully completed the race in less than the 30-hour cut-off time (52%). The majority of runners were male (84%). We were able to collect both pre- and post-race blood samples from 36 runners. Out of these 36 runners, the mean pre-race CK was increased from 12664 U/L to 14,569 +/- 14,729 U/L (p < 0.001). There was a weak linear correlation between lower sodium levels and higher CK levels post-race (p = 0.003; R-2 = 0.10). Using a multiple regression model, other than a negative correlation between sodium and CK levels (p = 0.001), there were no statistically significant correlations between post-race CK levels and athletes' age, BMI, or finishing time. Conclusions: Significant elevation of CK level occurs as a result of running ultramarathons. The majority of athletes with significantly elevated CK levels were asymptomatic and required no major medical attention.		[Magrini, Danielle] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Div Orthoped, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Khodaee, Morteza] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Family Med, Div Sports Med, Denver, CO USA; [San-Millan, Inigo] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Div Sports Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Hew-Butler, Tamara] Oakland Univ Sch Hlth Sci, Exercise Sci Program, Rochester, MI USA; [Provance, Aaron J.] Univ Colorado, Sch Med, Dept Orthoped, Div Sports Med, Aurora, CO USA; [Khodaee, Morteza] Univ Colorado, Dept Family Med, Div Sports Med, Sch Med,AFW Clin, 3055 Roslyn St, Denver, CO 80238 USA								25							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000400001300011	37	Article; Article		
J	Baker, Thomas Alexander, III; Liu, Xindan; Brison, Natasha T.; Pifer, Nathan David								Air Qiaodan An examination of transliteration and trademark squatting in China based on <i>Jordan</i> vs <i>Qiaodan Sports</i>								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	1			95	105		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2016-0009			2017	2017	Purpose - For this study, the Jordan case provided the context for investigating Chinese trademark law with the purpose of answering how and why Jordan lost the legal rights to the Chinese version of his name in China. The results from that investigation were used to better explain the phenomena of transliteration and trademark squatting in relation to sport brands and athletes. The purpose of this paper is to formulate suggestions for protecting sport brands and athletes from trademark squatting in China. Design/methodology/approach - The authors used traditional legal methodology to investigate the influence of transliteration on trademark squatting in China based on the real-life context provided by the facts in Jordan. First, all reported materials from Chinese courts on the Jordan case were collected and analyzed by the research team, which included an investigator who is fluent in Chinese. Second, the authors conducted a collection, review, and analysis of China's trademark law, the international trademark law that controls court decisions in China, and the literature on trademark squatting in China. The results from the investigations were used to formulate a description of Jordan that details how the process of transliteration facilitates trademark squatting in China. Findings - The findings revealed a loophole within the Chinese administration of trademark regulation through which trademark squatters use the process of transliteration to infringe on trademark rights belonging to senior, foreign brands. Furthermore, the findings lead us to suggest that sport brands are particularly vulnerable to this type of trademark squatting in China. In Jordan, Qiaodan Sports exploited the transliteration loophole to obtain trademark ownership of Qiaodan to the detriment of Brand Jordan and, to a lesser extent, Chinese consumers. Research limitations/implications - This study contributes to the literature by conceptualizing a "transliteration loophole" that facilitates trademark squatting in China. Further, this is the first study to focus on how the concepts of transliteration and trademark squatting influence celebrity athletes and sport brands. Practical implications - For foreign celebrity athletes and sport brands, the case should alert them of their vulnerability to trademark squatting of transliterations assigned to them by sport broadcasters or sport consumers in China. For instructors of sport law and sport marketing courses, the Jordan case provides teachable lessons on the value of trademark, the process of trademark squatting, and the process of transliteration and its relation to trademark squatting in China. Social implications - Socially, studies in trademark squatting and Chinese trademark law are needed as China continues to expand its intellectual property regulations. The People's Republic of China started regulating trademarks in the 1980s and since then, there have been three major modifications. Still, controversies exist in terms of trademark squatting of foreign brands and research is needed to better understand why this happens, and how it can be avoided. Originality/value - The focus on sport as well as the suggestions offered for sport brands and celebrity athletes makes this study the first of its kind within the literature on trademark squatting in China. The importance and impact of the Jordan case is one that attracts attention and should result in significant impact in the literature and practical impact for the field.		[Baker, Thomas Alexander, III] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Liu, Xindan] South Western Univ Finance & Econ, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Brison, Natasha T.] Texas A&M Univ, College Stn, TX USA; [Pifer, Nathan David] Univ Georgia, Dept Sport Management, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Baker, Thomas Alexander, III] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000396579100007	30	Article; Article		
J	Yao, Qin; Schwarz, Eric C.								Transnational venue management corporations and local embeddedness A case study on the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai, China								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	1			70	80		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2016-0008			2017	2017	Purpose - The case of the Mercedes- Benz Arena in Shanghai, China raises an important issue with respect to transnational venue management corporations embedding and operating in foreign markets. The purpose of this paper is to examine how Anschutz Entertainment Group (AEG) has implemented social embeddedness strategy to influence the management structure and enhance operational performance of the Mercedes-Benz Arena. Design/methodology/approach - A case study approach was chosen to examine the social embeddedness of AEG through the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai. An in-depth interview was conducted with John Cappo, the President and CEO of AEG China, in April 2016. In addition, the relative news and interviews of leaders from AEG and AEG China over the past ten years was also collected. Qualitative content analysis of the data was conducted through a coding approach. All the materials were coded into three main categories based on three aspects of social embeddedness: local stakeholder relations, reputation and trust-building, cultural and institutional adaptation. Findings - AEG has demonstrated how a transnational venue management corporation can successfully integrate social embeddedness strategy with the management structure and operational procedures of the Mercedes- Benz Arena in three ways. First is through the relationship between AEG and its partners in the joint venture, OPG in terms of the enforcement of the contract, the clear division of responsibilities, and the mutual understanding and use of relationship building. Second is the relationship between AEG and the local government in Shanghai. Third was adapting the structures of AEG to fit within local culture and institutional contexts. Originality/value - The unique multi-stakeholder relationship inherent to venue management in China raises important questions with respect to transnational venue management corporations operating in foreign markets. The adaptation to the local context, as a moderating factor to the institutional exposure of a venue management company involves more challenging obstacles for non-local firms, compared to firms which are familiar with their institutional context. Understanding the key solutions in building relationships and trust with partners in joint venture and local government, as well as the key methods to adopt in local contexts, have applications across any number of sport industries.		[Yao, Qin] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sport Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Schwarz, Eric C.] Victoria Univ, Coll Sport & Exercise Sci, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Yao, Qin] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sport Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000396579100005	27	Article; Article		
J	Lee, DongHun; Zhang, Yinghui; Cottingham, Michael; Park, JungKun; Yu, Ho Yeol								Values and goals of Chinese sport consumers contrary to American counterparts								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	1			11	28		10.1108/IJSMS-05-2016-0027			2017	2017	Purpose - Existing studies suggest the importance of research related to values and goals and their impacts on consumer involvement. However, cross-cultural examination of values and goals in the context of sport is scarce. To broaden our understanding of the cultural impact of values and goals on sport involvement, the purpose of this paper is to compare perspectives between Easterners (Chinese) and Westerners (Americans). Design/methodology/approach - This exploratory research utilized both online and written surveys to collect two convenience samples from 281 American and 636 Chinese participants. Analysis included descriptive statistics, correlations, and regression analyses. Findings - Results indicated both populations perceived values and goals differently; Chinese responded less favorably to values and goals than American counterparts. Values and goals predicted cognitive and behavioral sport involvement with variance in each population. Results generally supported a large cultural variation between the cultures. Lastly, similarities and differences in the perceived importance of values and goals and their subsequent impacts on cognitive and behavioral sport involvement suggest a need for a unique managerial approach when American businesses enter new cultural boundaries like China. Originality/value - This research is significant because studies exploring values and goals and their influences on sport consumption at the cross-cultural level are still limited in sport literature. Furthermore, an empirical examination of the impact of values and goals on sport consumers across cultures will help increase generalizability of the findings to sport literature.		[Lee, DongHun; Yu, Ho Yeol] Univ Houston Syst, HHP, Houston, TX 77004 USA; [Zhang, Yinghui] Huaqiao Univ, Sch Phys Educ, Quanzhou, Fujian, Peoples R China; [Cottingham, Michael] Univ Houston, Houston, TX USA; [Park, JungKun] Univ Houston, Sch Business Mkt, Houston, TX USA; [Lee, DongHun] Univ Houston Syst, HHP, Houston, TX 77004 USA								5							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000396579100002	41	Article; Article		
J	Liu, Dongfeng; Zhang, James J.; Desbordes, Michel								Sport business in China: current state and prospect								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS MARKETING & SPONSORSHIP				18	1			2	10		10.1108/IJSMS-12-2016-0086			2017	2017	Purpose - Growth of China's sport industry has brought tremendous opportunities to sport and non-sport organizations domestically and globally; nonetheless, the enlargement has also raised many challenges. To a great extent, China has chartered into unprecedented new sport business territories. Because of social, cultural, historical, and governmental differences, many theories and knowledge, professional experiences, best practices, and lessons learned in Western countries may or may not be directly applicable to the diverse setting(s) in China. Until now, only limited empirical evidence is available to address these challenges. Thus, formulating a special issue in the International Journal of Sports Marketing and Sponsorship to examine contemporary subject matters and concerns would be significantly meaningful to help understand, stimulate, and improve sport business operations in China, provide guidance to transnational organizations for doing sport-related business in China, offer constructive suggestions for Chinese corporations going global, and ultimately build up theories and best practices to address unique perspectives of China's sport industry. The paper aims to discuss these issues. Design/methodology/approach - This paper is conceptual and presents a review of literature. Findings - In addition to this leading paper, there are a total of eight manuscripts selected for this special issue inquiring on contemporary matters and development of China's sport industry, including four short articles that were formulated based on qualitative research information derived from case studies and interviews and four full-length articles that adopted a quantitative research protocol or a mixed research design involving both qualitative and quantitative information. Research limitations/implications - While it is impossible to capture all contemporary topics in the development of China's sport industry within one journal issue, articles selected in this special issue of the International Journal of Sports Marketing and Sponsorship have provided useful highlights into some of the critical issues faced by the industry and research directions by academicians. It is sincerely expected that studies in this special issue would help inspire more scholarly inquires and ultimately improve the continued formulation and advancement of a strong sport industry in China. Practical implications - While it is impossible to capture all contemporary topics in the development of China's sport industry within one journal issue, articles selected in this special issue of the International Journal of Sports Marketing and Sponsorship have provided useful highlights into some of the critical issues faced by the industry and research directions by academicians. It is sincerely expected that studies in this special issue would help inspire more scholarly inquires and ultimately improve the continued formulation and advancement of a strong sport industry in China. Social implications - While it is impossible to capture all contemporary topics in the development of China's sport industry within one journal issue, articles selected in this special issue of the International Journal of Sports Marketing and Sponsorship have provided useful highlights into some of the critical issues faced by the industry and research directions by academicians. It is sincerely expected that studies in this special issue would help inspire more scholarly inquires and ultimately improve the continued formulation and advancement of a strong sport industry in China. Originality/value - While it is impossible to capture all contemporary topics in the development of China's sport industry within one journal issue, articles selected in this special issue of the International Journal of Sports Marketing and Sponsorship have provided useful highlights into some of the critical issues faced by the industry and research directions by academicians. It is sincerely expected that studies in this special issue would help inspire more scholarly inquires and ultimately improve the continued formulation and advancement of a strong sport industry in China.		[Liu, Dongfeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Sport Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, James J.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Desbordes, Michel] Univ Paris Sud, Dept Sport Management, Paris, France; [Liu, Dongfeng] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Sport Management, Shanghai, Peoples R China								55							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000396579100001	21	Article; Article		
J	Krautmann, Anthony C.								Risk-Averse Team Owners and Players' Salaries in Major League Baseball								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	1			19	33		10.1177/1527002514560577			JAN 2017	2017	This article looks at the role an owner's attitude toward risk plays in his salary bids for free agents in Major League Baseball. We show that risk-averse owners will pay a premium for consistency on the field. Our empirical results are consistent with the hypothesis that a free agent's contract terms are negatively related to the degree of variability in his performance. To the extent that our results carry over to all players, this suggests a heretofore unrecognized factor affecting the market for talent in professional sports.		[Krautmann, Anthony C.] Depaul Univ, Dept Econ, Chicago, IL 60604 USA; [Krautmann, Anthony C.] Dept Econ, 1 E Jackson, Chicago, IL 60604 USA								7							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189200002	27	Article; Article		
J	Carmichael, Fiona; Rossi, Giambattista; Thomas, Denis								Production, Efficiency, and Corruption in Italian Serie A Football								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	1			34	57		10.1177/1527002514551802			JAN 2017	2017	This article uses data for Italian Serie A to estimate a production function for the league and the relative efficiency of the clubs playing in it. It utilizes a panel data set comprising season aggregated match statistics for 36 Serie A clubs that played over 10 seasons from 2000 to 2010. The seasons affected by the Calciopoli corruption scandal are incorporated with specific indicators in the statistical model. The results highlight the importance of attacking play in Serie A, the role played by historic success or lack of it and, more tentatively, the potential gains and also costs from fraudulent behavior.		[Carmichael, Fiona] Univ Birmingham, Birmingham Business Sch, Labour Econ, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Rossi, Giambattista] Univ East London, London, England; [Thomas, Denis] Aberystwyth Univ, Econ, Aberystwyth, Dyfed, Wales; [Rossi, Giambattista] Birkbeck Univ London, Malet St, London WC1E 7HX, England								20							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189200003	65	Article; Article		
J	Propheter, Geoffrey								Subsidies and Stadia' Opulence								JOURNAL OF SPORTS ECONOMICS				18	1			3	18		10.1177/1527002514551803			JAN 2017	2017	Quirk and Fort's gold plating hypothesis stipulates that subsidies are partly capitalized into stadia' opulence. If the gold plating hypothesis is true, it would indicate that subsidies contribute to their own existence, as owners and major league executives argue subsidies are necessary to meet leagues' increasing facility design standards. This study tests the gold plating hypothesis using a pooled cross section of stadia from the five major leagues. The findings confirm that subsidies increase stadia' opulence. As evaluated at leagues' mean stadia acreage, the marginal opulence of an additional US$1 million construction subsidy ranges from US$188,490 to US$501,420 depending on the league.		[Propheter, Geoffrey] New York City Independent Budget Off, 110 William St,14th Floor, New York, NY 10038 USA; [Propheter, Geoffrey] New York City Independent Budget Off, 110 William St,14th Floor, New York, NY 10038 USA								8							Economics; Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000397189200001	31	Article; Article		
J	Persson, Ulrik McCarthy; O'Sullivan, Rebecca M.; Morrissey, Dylan; Wallace, Jennifer								The ability of athletes with long-standing groin pain to maintain a stable lumbopelvic position: A laboratory study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				45	49		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.06.008			JAN 2017	2017	Objectives: The ability to maintain a lumbopelvic position (LPP) was assessed in athletes with a history of long-standing groin pain (LSGP) and athletes without LSGP. Design: Case-control study. Setting: University motion analysis laboratory. Participants: Thirty male athletes-15 with a history of LSGP (>12 weeks) and 15 without. Main outcome measures: Maintenance of LPP was assessed using a pressure biofeedback unit (PBU) during supine single leg lift (SLL), single leg extension (SLE) and bent knee fallout (BKFO). Repeatability was assessed using intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) and group differences analysed using MANOVA. Results: Differences were detected between involved and uninvolved sides in the LSGP group during SLL (mean difference [md] = 9.82 mmHg, p<0.01) and BKFO (md = 8.56 mmHg, p <0.01) but not during SLE (md = 0.38 mmHg, p = 0.96). Between group differences were found during the SLL of the involved leg (md = 5.22 mmHg p = 0.034) and the BKFO of the uninvolved leg (md = 6.22 mmHg p = 0.017). Inter session reliability varied for the different movement tasks in both groups (ICC = 0.35-0.94). Conclusions: Ability to maintain LPP differed between the involved and uninvolved legs within the LSGP group and between the athletes with and without LSGP. Despite resolution of groin pain, altered control of lumbopelvic position existed with possible implications for later injury recurrence. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Persson, Ulrik McCarthy] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin 4, Ireland; [Persson, Ulrik McCarthy] Univ Coll Dublin, UCD Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin 4, Ireland; [O'Sullivan, Rebecca M.; Wallace, Jennifer] Inst Technol, Dept Sci & Hlth, Carlow, Ireland; [Morrissey, Dylan] Queen Mary Univ London, William Harvey Res Inst, Barts & London Sch Med & Dent, Sports & Exercise Med, London, England; [Morrissey, Dylan] Barts Hlth NHS Trust, Physiotherapy Dept, London, England; [Persson, Ulrik McCarthy] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin 4, Ireland								5							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200007	24	Article; Article		
J	Gietzen, Megan S.; Gollust, Sarah E.; Linde, Jennifer A.; Neumark-Sztainer, Dianne; Eisenberg, Marla E.								A Content Analysis of Physical Activity in TV Shows Popular Among Adolescents								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			72	82		10.1080/02701367.2016.1266459			2017	2017	Purpose: Previous research has demonstrated that television has the potential to influence youth behaviors, but little evidence exists on how television depicts physical activity (PA), an important public health priority for youth. This mixed-methods study investigated depictions of television characters' participation in PA in the top 25 favorite shows ranked by a diverse sample of 2,793 adolescents. Method: Randomly selected episodes from each show were content-analyzed for PA incidents, reasons, and context and in relation to the gender and weight status of participating characters. Results: A total of 374 incidents of PA were coded across 75 episodes, with an average of 5.0 incidents per episode. Although male and female characters were equally likely to engage in at least 1 incident of PA, male characters were involved in a statistically significantly larger proportion of PA incidents than were female characters, and they were more likely to engage in PA for competitive sport. There was no statistically significant difference in engagement in PA or the proportion of PA incidents for characters coded as overweight compared with nonoverweight characters. Conclusions: Although female characters tended to be underrepresented in PA, this study reveals positive messages for how gender and weight are portrayed in relation to PA on TV.		[Gietzen, Megan S.; Gollust, Sarah E.; Linde, Jennifer A.; Neumark-Sztainer, Dianne; Eisenberg, Marla E.] Univ Minnesota, 717 Delaware St SE, Minneapolis, MN 55414 USA; [Eisenberg, Marla E.] Univ Minnesota, Dept Pediat, Div Gen Pediat & Adolescent Hlth, 717 Delaware St SE, Minneapolis, MN 55414 USA								11							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600009	37	Article; Article		
J	Tomporowski, Phillip D.; Albrecht, Chelesa; Pendleton, Daniel M.								Effects of Isometric Hand-Grip Muscle Contraction on Young Adults' Free Recall and Recognition Memory								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			95	100		10.1080/02701367.2016.1264567			2017	2017	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine if physical arousal produced by isometric hand-dynamometer contraction performed during word-list learning affects young adults' free recall or recognition memory. Method: Twenty-four young adults (12 female; M-age = 22 years) were presented with 4 20-item word lists. Moderate arousal was induced in 12 adults by an initial 30-s maximal hand-dynamometer squeeze with force productions of 50% maximum; low arousal was induced in 12 adults by an initial 1-s maximal dynamometer squeeze with force production of 10% maximum during learning. Memory performances following dual-task conditions experienced during the encoding, consolidation, and recall phases of learning were compared to a single-task control condition during which words were learned in the absence of isometric exercise. Results: Planned contrasts revealed that arousal coinciding with word encoding led to significantly poorer immediate recall, F(1, 23) = 10.13, p<.05, eta(2)p =.31, delayed free recall, F(1, 23) = 15.81, p,.05, h2 p =.41, and recognition memory, F(1, 23) = 6.07, p,.05, eta(2)p =.21, compared with when there was no arousal. Neither arousal condition facilitated participants' memory performance. Conclusion: The reduction in long-term memory performance specific to the encoding phase of learning is explained in terms of the dual-task attentional demands placed on participants.		[Tomporowski, Phillip D.; Albrecht, Chelesa; Pendleton, Daniel M.] Univ Georgia, 330 River Rd, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Tomporowski, Phillip D.] Univ Georgia, Dept Kinesiol, 330 River Rd, Athens, GA 30602 USA								10							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600011	26	Article; Article		
J	Tedesqui, Rafael A. B.; Young, Bradley W.								Associations Between Self-Control, Practice, and Skill Level in Sport Expertise Development								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			108	113		10.1080/02701367.2016.1267836			2017	2017	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to test the association between self-control (SC) variables and (a) sport-specific practice amounts, (b) engagement in various practice contexts, (c) threats to commitment to one's sport, and (d) skill development using the Brief Self-Control Scale (BSCS) in a diverse sport sample. Method: Two hundred forty-four athletes (47% female; M-age = 21.96 years, SD = 6.98 years; 68.8% individual sports and 31.2% team sports; 13.77 [SD = 8.12] hr/week of sportspecific practice) completed a survey composed of the BSCS and practice-related measures. Three skill groups (basic/intermediate, advanced, expert) were informed by athletes' self-reported highest level of competition. Separate analyses were conducted for juniors (aged 12-17 years) and seniors (aged 18-43 years). Results: A 2-factor model (self-discipline and impulse control) fit the BSCS data. Fewer thoughts of quitting from one's sport were associated with higher self-discipline in juniors and seniors and were also related to higher impulse control in seniors. Greater practice amounts were associated with higher self-discipline; however, only seniors showed such associations in voluntary practice contexts. For juniors and seniors, impulse control was associated with more voluntary practicing. There were, however, no skill-group differences for levels of self-discipline or impulse control. Conclusions: Self-discipline and impulse control may be dispositional characteristics associated with how athletes engage in practice and avert conditions that threaten their sport commitment. SC dispositions may relate to practice amounts differently in juniors and seniors, depending on the requirements for self-regulation in a practice context.		[Tedesqui, Rafael A. B.; Young, Bradley W.] Univ Ottawa, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada; [Tedesqui, Rafael A. B.] Univ Ottawa, Sch Human Kinet, 125 Univ St,Montpetit Hall,MNT 416B, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada								20							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600013	18	Article; Article		
J	Zhang, Chunhua; Yang, Yang								Can Policy Alone Stop Decline of Children and Youth Fitness?								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			9	14		10.1080/02701367.2017.1270157			2017	2017	Various models and methods have been proposed to address the worldwide decline in children's and youth's physical fitness, and the social-ecological model has shown some promise. Yet, the impact of the policy intervention, 1 component of that model, has not been evaluated carefully. Using limited data from policy documents, the impact of policy related to children and youth fitness in China was examined, and it was found that the policy alone did not seem to work. Possible reasons are explored, and a call for more policy evaluation research is made.		[Zhang, Chunhua] Shanghai Univ Sport, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Yang, Yang] Shanghai Municipal Ctr Students Phys Fitness & Hl, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Chunhua] Shanghai Univ Sport, Sch Kinesiol, 650 Qing Yuan Huan Rd, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China								3							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600002	44	Article; Article		
J	Rigby, Brandon Rhett; Gloeckner, Adam Robert; Sessums, Suzanne; Lanning, Beth Anne; Grandjean, Peter Walter								Changes in Cardiorespiratory Responses and Kinematics With Hippotherapy in Youth With and Without Cerebral Palsy								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			26	35		10.1080/02701367.2016.1266458			2017	2017	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to characterize pelvic displacement and cardiorespiratory responses to simulated horseback riding and walking in youth with cerebral palsy and to compare responses to youth without cerebral palsy before and after 8 weeks of hippotherapy. Method: Eight youth with cerebral palsy (M-age = 10 +/- 4 years; M-height = 137 +/- 24 cm; M-weight = 32 +/- 16 kg) and 8 youth without cerebral palsy (M-age = 11 +/- 2 years; M-height = 149 +/- 14 cm; M-weight = 48 +/- 15 kg) underwent a hippotherapy intervention. Participants completed simulated horseback riding at an intensity approximating a fast walk (0.65 Hz) and walked on a treadmill (1 mph, 0% grade) before and after hippotherapy. Pelvic displacement along the anterior-posterior, vertical, and medial-lateral axes, heart rate, oxygen consumption, ventilation, and blood pressure were measured at rest and during steady-state exercise in both exercise modes. Results: Kinematics and cardiorespiratory responses were similar between the 2 groups during simulated horseback riding (p>.05 for all) before the intervention. Significantly greater cardiorespiratory responses were observed in the youth with cerebral palsy compared with the group without cerebral palsy while walking before and after the intervention (p<.05, effect sizes 26% to 237% greater). Eight weeks of hippotherapy did not alter responses, but anecdotal improvements in gait, balance, posture, and range of motion were observed in those with cerebral palsy. Conclusion: These results contribute to our understanding regarding the efficacy of hippotherapy as an intervention to improve functional abilities in those with cerebral palsy.		[Rigby, Brandon Rhett] Texas Womans Univ, Denton, TX 76204 USA; [Gloeckner, Adam Robert; Lanning, Beth Anne; Grandjean, Peter Walter] Baylor Univ, One Bear Pl 97313, Waco, TX 76798 USA; [Sessums, Suzanne] Victory Therapy Ctr, Roanoke, TX USA; [Grandjean, Peter Walter] Baylor Univ, Ctr Hlth Living, One Bear Pl 97313, Waco, TX 76798 USA								7							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600004	26	Article; Article		
J	Luguetti, Carla; Oliver, Kimberly L.; Basto Tourinho Dantas, Luiz Eduardo Pinto; Kirk, David								An Activist Approach to Sport Meets Youth From Socially Vulnerable Backgrounds: Possible Learning Aspirations								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			60	71		10.1080/02701367.2016.1263719			2017	2017	Purpose: This study was a 2-phase activist research project aimed at co-creating a prototype pedagogical model for working with youth from socially vulnerable backgrounds in a sport context. This article addresses the learning aspirations (learning outcomes) that emerged when we created spaces for youth to develop strategies to manage the risks they face in their community. Method: This study took place in a socially and economically disadvantaged neighborhood in a Brazilian city where we worked with a group of 17 boys aged 13 to 15 years old, 4 coaches, a pedagogic coordinator, and a social worker. During a 6-month period, we collected multiple sources of data including field journal entries/observations (38) and audio records of youth work sessions (18), coaches' work sessions (16), combined coaches and youth work sessions (3), and meetings between the lead and the 2nd author for debriefing and planning sessions (36). Results: By using an activist approach, 4 learning aspirations emerged: becoming responsible/committed, learning from mistakes, valuing each other's knowledge, and communicating with others. Conclusion: Findings suggest there is a need for more sports programs that start from young people's concrete needs and life situations and look to create places for youth to see alternative possibilities and take action.		[Luguetti, Carla; Oliver, Kimberly L.] New Mexico State Univ, POB 30001 MSC 3M, Las Cruces, NM 88003 USA; [Luguetti, Carla; Basto Tourinho Dantas, Luiz Eduardo Pinto] Univ Sao Paulo, BR-05508 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Kirk, David] Univ Strathclyde, Glasgow G1 1XQ, Lanark, Scotland; [Luguetti, Carla] New Mexico State Univ, Dept Kinesiol & Dance, POB 30001 MSC 3M, Las Cruces, NM 88003 USA								29							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600008	33	Article; Article		
J	Goodyear, Victoria A.								Sustained Professional Development on Cooperative Learning: Impact on Six Teachers' Practices and Students' Learning								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			83	94		10.1080/02701367.2016.1263381			2017	2017	Purpose: It has been argued, extensively and internationally, that sustained school-based continuous professional development (CPD) has the potential to overcome some of the shortcomings of traditional one-off CPD programs. Yet, the evidence base on more effective or less effective forms of CPD is contradictory. The mechanisms by which sustained support should be offered are unclear, and the impacts on teachers' and students' learning are complex and difficult to track. The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of a sustained school-based, tailored, and supported CPD program on teachers' practices and students' learning. Method: Data are reported from 6 case studies of individual teachers engaged in a yearlong CPD program focused on cooperative learning. The CPD program involved participatory action research and frequent interaction/support from a boundary spanner (researcher/facilitator). Data were gathered from 29 video-recorded lessons, 108 interviews, and 35 field journal entries. Results: (a) Individualized (external) support, (b) departmental (internal) support, and (c) sustained support impacted teachers' practices of cooperative learning. The teachers adapted their practices of cooperative learning in response to their students' learning needs. Teachers began to develop a level of pedagogical fluency, and in doing so, teachers advanced students' learning. Conclusions: Because this study demonstrates impact, it contributes to international literature on effective CPD. The key contribution is the detailed evidence about how and why CPD supported 6 individual teachers to learn-differently- and the complexity of the learning support required to engage in ongoing curriculum development to positively impact student learning.		[Goodyear, Victoria A.] Univ Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT, W Midlands, England; [Goodyear, Victoria A.] Univ Birmingham, Sch Sport Exercise & Rehabil Sci, Birmingham B15 2TT, W Midlands, England								60							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600010	33	Article; Article		
J	Klostermann, Andre; Kung, Philip								Gaze Strategies in Skateboard Trick Jumps: Spatiotemporal Constraints in Complex Locomotion								RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT				88	1			101	107		10.1080/02701367.2016.1229864			2017	2017	Purpose: This study aimed to further the knowledge on gaze behavior in locomotion by studying gaze strategies in skateboard jumps of different difficulty that had to be performed either with or without an obstacle. Method: Nine experienced skateboarders performed "Ollie" and "Kickflip" jumps either over an obstacle or over a plane surface. The stable gaze at 5 different areas of interest was calculated regarding its relative duration as well as its temporal order. Results: During the approach phase, an interaction between area of interest and obstacle condition, F(3, 24) = 12.91, p<.05, eta(2)(p) =.62, was found with longer stable-gaze locations at the takeoff area in attempts with an obstacle (p,.05, hp 2 =.47). In contrast, in attempts over a plane surface, longer stable-gaze locations at the skateboard were revealed (p<.05, eta(2)(p) =.73). Regarding the trick difficulty factor, the skateboarders descriptively showed longer stable-gaze locations at the skateboard for the " Kickflip" than for the "Ollie" in the no-obstacle condition only (p<.05, d = 0.74). Finally, during the jump phase, neither obstacle condition nor trick difficulty affected gaze behavior differentially. Conclusions: This study underlines the functional adaptability of the visuomotor system to changing demands in highly dynamic situations. As a function of certain constraints, different gaze strategies were observed that can be considered as highly relevant for successfully performing skateboard jumps.		[Klostermann, Andre; Kung, Philip] Univ Bern, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland; [Klostermann, Andre] Univ Bern, Inst Sport Sci, Bremgartenstr 145, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland								4							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism; Psychology, Applied; Psychology; Sport Sciences	WOS:000398101600012	17	Article; Article		
J	Sogut, Mustafa								A Comparison of Serve Speed and Motor Coordination between Elite and Club Level Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			171	176		10.1515/hukin-2017-0015			JAN 2017	2017	The purpose of this study was to compare the serve speed and motor coordination of elite and club level junior tennis players aged 11-14 years. Participants (n=35) were assigned to one of the two groups according to their experience, weekly training volume and competition level. Serve speed was assessed with a sports radar gun. Motor coordination was evaluated by means of the Korperkoordinationstest fur Kinder. The main results revealed that serve speed and motor coordination performance levels of the elite group were significantly higher than those of the club group. This study emphasized the importance of early participation and training intensity, which can play an important role in enhancement of serve speed and motor coordination.		[Sogut, Mustafa] Kirikkale Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Kirikkale, Turkey; [Sogut, Mustafa] Kirikkale Univ, Fac Sport Sci, Kirikkale, Turkey								29							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500017	25	Article; Article		
J	de Mello Leite, Jorge Vieira; Barbieri, Fabio Augusto; Miyagi, Willian; Malta, Elvis de Souza; Zagatto, Alessandro Moura								Influence of Game Evolution and the Phase of Competition on Temporal Game Structure in High-Level Table Tennis Tournaments								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			55	63		10.1515/hukin-2016-0048			JAN 2017	2017	The aims of this study were: a) to investigate the game temporal structure in high-level table tennis competitions; b) to verify the influence of game evolution in international competitions from 2009 to 2012 (World Table Tennis Championships and the Olympic Games) on game temporal structure; c) to compare game temporal structure according to the phase of competition. Comparisons between the three international tournaments demonstrated that rally duration decreased significantly (p < 0.05) during the analyzed period (2009-2012), while the rest time increased (p < 0.05) from 2009 to 2011, but decreased (p < 0.05) from 2011 to 2012. In the competition phase analysis, it was found that rally duration decreased (p < 0.05) in the quarterfinals in relation to the semifinals and finals, while the rest time increased (p < 0.05) from the quarterfinals to semifinals and finals. Based on our findings and previous literature, we concluded that the performance level, game evolution and the competition phase influenced the game temporal structure of table tennis, considering longer rest periods adopted by elite athletes in relation to non-elite athletes, the reduction in rally duration and an increase in rest time over the 2009-2012 period and through the competition phases (quarterfinals to finals).		[de Mello Leite, Jorge Vieira] Fed Univ Mato Grosso do Sul UFMS, Hlth & Dev Postgrad Program, Campo Grande, Brazil; [Barbieri, Fabio Augusto; Miyagi, Willian; Malta, Elvis de Souza; Zagatto, Alessandro Moura] Sao Paulo State Univ, UNESP, Dept Phys Educ, Sch Sci, Av Eng Luiz Edmundo Carrijo Coube 14-01, BR-17033360 Bauru, SP, Brazil; [Zagatto, Alessandro Moura] Sao Paulo State Univ, UNESP, Dept Phys Educ, Sch Sci, Av Eng Luiz Edmundo Carrijo Coube 14-01, BR-17033360 Bauru, SP, Brazil								32							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500006	29	Article; Article		
J	Hayashi, Isao; Fujii, Masanori; Maeda, Toshiyuki; Leveille, Jasmin; Tasaka, Tokio								Extraction of Knowledge from the Topographic Attentive Mapping Network and its Application in Skill Analysis of Table Tennis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			39	54		10.1515/hukin-2017-0005			JAN 2017	2017	The Topographic Attentive Mapping (TAM) network is a biologically-inspired classifier that bears similarities to the human visual system. In case of wrong classification during training, an attentional top-down signal modulates synaptic weights in intermediate layers to reduce the difference between the desired output and the classifier's output. When used in a TAM network, the proposed pruning algorithm improves classification accuracy and allows extracting knowledge as represented by the network structure. In this paper, sport technique evaluation of motion analysis modelled by the TAM network was discussed. The trajectory pattern of forehand strokes of table tennis players was analyzed with nine sensor markers attached to the right upper arm of players. With the TAM network, input attributes and technique rules were extracted in order to classify the skill level of players of table tennis from the sensor data. In addition, differences between the elite player, middle level player and beginner were clarified; furthermore, we discussed how to improve skills specific to table tennis from the view of data analysis.		[Hayashi, Isao] Kansai Univ, Grad Sch Informat, 2-1-1 Ryozenji Cho, Takatsuki, Osaka 5691095, Japan; [Fujii, Masanori; Maeda, Toshiyuki] Hannan Univ, Fac Management Informat, Matsubara, Osaka, Japan; [Leveille, Jasmin] Wheatsone Techonol LLC, Washington, DC USA; [Tasaka, Tokio] Doshisha Univ, Fac Hlth & Sports Sci, Kyotanabe, Japan; [Hayashi, Isao] Kansai Univ, Grad Sch Informat, 2-1-1 Ryozenji Cho, Takatsuki, Osaka 5691095, Japan								1							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500005	22	Article; Article		
J	Tamaki, Sho; Yoshida, Kazuto; Yamada, Koshi								A Shot Number Based Approach to Performance Analysis in Table Tennis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			7	18		10.1515/hukin-2017-0002			JAN 2017	2017	The current study proposes a novel approach that improves the conventional performance analysis in table tennis by introducing the concept of frequency, or the number of shots, of each shot number. The improvements over the conventional method are as follows: better accuracy of the evaluation of skills and tactics of players, additional insights into scoring and returning skills and ease of understanding the results with a single criterion. The performance analysis of matches played at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London was conducted using the proposed method. The results showed some effects of the shot number and gender differences in table tennis. Furthermore, comparisons were made between Chinese players and players from other countries, what threw light on the skills and tactics of the Chinese players. The present findings demonstrate that the proposed method provides useful information and has some advantages over the conventional method.		[Tamaki, Sho] Meio Univ, 1220-1 Biimata, Nagom City, Okinawa, Japan; [Yoshida, Kazuto] Shizuoka Univ, Shizuoka, Shizuoka, Japan; [Yoshida, Kazuto] Int Table Tennis Federat, Sports Sci & Med Comm, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Yamada, Koshi] Table Tennis Friendship Club, Shizuoka, Shizuoka, Japan; [Tamaki, Sho] Meio Univ, 1220-1 Biimata, Nagom City, Okinawa, Japan								41							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500002	11	Article; Article		
J	van de Water, Tanja; Huijgen, Barbara; Faber, Irene; Elferink-Gemser, Marije								Assessing Cognitive Performance in Badminton Players: A Reproducibility and Validity Study								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			149	159		10.1515/hukin-2017-0014			JAN 2017	2017	Fast reaction and good inhibitory control are associated with elite sports performance. To evaluate the reproducibility and validity of a newly developed Badminton Reaction Inhibition Test (BRIT), fifteen elite (25 +/- 4 years) and nine non-elite (24 +/- 4 years) Dutch male badminton players participated in the study. The BRIT measured four components: domain-general reaction time, badminton-specific reaction time, domain-general inhibitory control and badminton-specific inhibitory control. Five participants were retested within three weeks on the badminton-specific components. Reproducibility was acceptable for badminton-specific reaction time (ICC = 0.626, CV = 6%) and for badminton-specific inhibitory control (ICC = 0.317, CV = 13%). Good construct validity was shown for badminton-specific reaction time discriminating between elite and non-elite players (F = 6.650, p < 0.05). Elite players did not outscore non-elite players on domain-general reaction time nor on both components of inhibitory control (p > 0.05). Concurrent validity for domain-general reaction time was good, as it was associated with a national ranking for elite (. = 0.70, p < 0.01) and non-elite (. = 0.70, p < 0.05) players. No relationship was found between the national ranking and badminton-specific reaction time, nor both components of inhibitory control (p > 0.05). In conclusion, reproducibility and validity of inhibitory control assessment was not confirmed, however, the BRIT appears a reproducible and valid measure of reaction time in badminton players. Reaction time measured with the BRIT may provide input for training programs aiming to improve badminton players' performance.		[van de Water, Tanja; Huijgen, Barbara; Elferink-Gemser, Marije] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands; [Faber, Irene] Saxion Univ Appl Sci, Fac Phys Act & Hlth, Enschede, Netherlands; [Faber, Irene] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Med Ctr, Radboud Inst Hlth Sci, IQhealthcare, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Faber, Irene] Sports Sci & Med Comm, Int Table Tennis Federat, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Huijgen, Barbara] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands								42							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500015	28	Article; Article		
J	Filipcic, Ales; Leskosek, Bojan; Filipcic, Tjasa								Split-Step Timing of Professional and Junior Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			97	105		10.1515/hukin-2017-0009			JAN 2017	2017	The purpose of the study was to determine the timing of a split-step in three categories of tennis players in four groups of strokes. Subjects were divided into three groups: male and female junior, and male professional tennis players. During two tournaments, all matches were recorded with two fixed video cameras. For every stroke, the timing of the split-step between the opponent's impact point when hitting the ball and the player's split-step was measured. A two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to determine the differences between groups of strokes, players and the interaction Player x Stroke Group. A Tukey post-hoc test was employed to determine specific differences. The results revealed differences between players in detecting the opponent's movement, stroke and ball flight, which were reflected in different split-step timings. Each tennis player has his/her own timing mechanism which they adapt to various game situations. Response times differ significantly depending on the game situation. On average, they are the lowest in the serve, and then gradually rise from the return of the serve to baseline game, reaching the highest values in specific game situations. Players react faster in the first serve than in the second one and in the return of the serve, the response times are lower after the return of the second serve.		[Filipcic, Ales; Leskosek, Bojan] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Filipcic, Tjasa] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Educ, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Filipcic, Ales] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia								16							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500010	37	Article; Article		
J	Steffgen, Georges								Anger Management - Evaluation of a Cognitive-Behavioral Training Program for Table Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			65	73		10.1515/hukin-2017-0006			JAN 2017	2017	Based on a systematic review of the literature on anger and anger management in sport, there is evidence that anger might be dysfunctional, especially in sports requiring selective attention and fine-tuned motor skills. The research literature suggests that cognitive-behavioral intervention programs can be fruitful in helping athletes to understand and control dysfunctional anger. Therefore, the main goal of the present study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a brief training program for table tennis players in cognitive-behavioral anger management that aimed at changing their non-effective anger reactions. The sample comprised 18 young competitive table tennis players (age range from 16 to 22 years) divided randomly into a treatment (n = 10) and a control group (n = 8). A trained group leader instructed the treatment group. Six sessions were held over a period of two months. Cognitive-relaxation coping skills associated with social skills of subjects from the treatment group were compared to no-treatment controls. Psychological measurements (i.e., self-reports on anger) were applied before, during and after treatment as well as in a follow-up session. The one-year follow-up session revealed that, in contrast to the control group, the treatment group showed a significant reduction in outwardly negative anger expression as well as anger reactions specific to table tennis. Despite limitations inherent in the research design, the training program was deemed effective.		[Steffgen, Georges] Univ Luxembourg, Inst Hlth & Behav, Belval Campus,11 Porte Sci, L-4366 Esch Sur Alzette, Luxembourg; [Steffgen, Georges] Univ Luxembourg, Inst Hlth & Behav, Belval Campus,11 Porte Sci, L-4366 Esch Sur Alzette, Luxembourg								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500007	28	Article; Article		
J	Ngo, Vuong; Richards, Hugh; Kondric, Miran								A Multidisciplinary Investigation of the Effects of Competitive State Anxiety on Serve Kinematics in Table Tennis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			83	95		10.1515/hukin-2017-0008			JAN 2017	2017	Displays of anxiety in table tennis were assessed through subjective (a self-report questionnaire), physiological (heart-rate variability) and kinematic variables. Using a within-group crossover design, 9 university-level table tennis players completed a series of serves under low- and high-anxiety conditions. Anxiety manipulation was achieved through the introduction of a national standard table tennis player, known to the participants, to receive serves in the high-anxiety condition, whilst serves were received by no opponent in the low-anxiety condition. Automated motion capture systems consisting of high-speed 3D motion cameras and analytical software (QUALISYS) determined the subject's movement kinematics: bat face angle (degrees) and serve routine duration (s). Self-reported state anxiety (MRF-Likert) and heart rate measurements were collected to examine changes between conditions. Contrary to the hypothesis, bat face angles did not change significantly between anxiety conditions (F (1.8) = 2.791, p = 0.133) and movement times were faster in the high-anxiety condition. In light of these findings, research into other facets of movement behaviour must be analysed to gain further understanding of the effects of anxiety on performance, which remain unclear.		[Ngo, Vuong; Richards, Hugh] Univ Edinburgh, Inst Sport Exercise & Hlth Sci, Edinburgh EH8 9YL, Midlothian, Scotland; [Kondric, Miran] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia; [Kondric, Miran] Int Table Tennis Federat, Sports Sci & Med Comm, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Kondric, Miran] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia								18							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500009	46	Article; Article		
J	Filipcic, Ales; Leskosek, Bojan; Munivrana, Goran; Ochiana, Gabriela; Filipcic, Tjasa								Differences in Movement Speed Before and After a Split-Step Between Professional and Junior Tennis Players								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			117	125		10.1515/hukin-2017-0011			JAN 2017	2017	This study investigated tennis players' speed before, during and after the split-step, deceleration before and acceleration after the split-step in four different stroke groups in three age categories. Seven male professional, eleven male and ten female junior tennis players were recorded with video cameras at official tournaments. Using the SAGIT system, we gathered data on 8,545 split-steps. Tennis players performed a split-step in 82.9% of cases. A tennis player's speed, deceleration and acceleration were measured 0.2 s before and after the split-step. Differences between categories and stroke groups for each of the five variables were analyzed with a two-way ANOVA. The differences between the groups of players were generally much higher in the speed before, during and after the split-step than in the deceleration before and acceleration after the split-step. Most of these differences were observed between the various stroke groups. These results suggest that players use three types of movement while performing a split-step. In the first type, which is typical of serving and returning, the speed before, during and after the split-step is lower (0.55 to 1.2 m/s). The second type of movement is characteristic of baseline strokes where tennis players achieve higher speed than in the first type (0.7 to 1.66 m/s). The third type occurs in strokes where a tennis player is moving or already at the net (0.78 to 1.9 m/s). Movement in tennis is an area that requires constant development in terms of designing and upgrading movement patterns, increasing speed and practice in specific game situations.		[Filipcic, Ales; Leskosek, Bojan] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Munivrana, Goran] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Split, Croatia; [Ochiana, Gabriela] Vasile Alecsandri Univ Bacau, Fac Movement Sports & Hlth Sci, Bacau, Romania; [Filipcic, Tjasa] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Educ, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Munivrana, Goran] Sports Sci & Med Comm, Int Table Tennis Federat, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Filipcic, Ales] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Gortanova 22, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia								9							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500012	28	Article; Article		
J	Kurimay, Dora; Pope-Rhodius, Alison; Kondric, Miran								The Relationship Between Stress and Coping in Table Tennis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			75	81		10.1515/hukin-2017-0007			JAN 2017	2017	The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between cognitive competitive anxiety intensity and coping strategies in table tennis players. One hundred and two (102) US competitive table tennis players of age range from 10 to 60 filled out a Revised Competitive State Anxiety Inventory-2 (CSAI-2R, Cox et al., 2003) at least 30 minutes before the start of their tournament match and a Modified Cope questionnaire (MCOPE; Crocker and Graham, 1995) 15 minutes after they finished their match. Our study found significant differences between low and high cognitive competitive anxiety groups with regard to the use of coping strategies. The high cognitive competitive anxiety intensity group used significantly more behavioral disengagement (avoidance coping, p <= 0.05), denial coping strategies (emotion focused coping, p <= 0.01) compared to the low cognitive anxiety intensity group. Our results suggest that there is some connection between anxiety intensity and coping strategies. If the cognitive anxiety intensity (for example, intensity from worrying) is very high, an athlete might be more likely to use avoidance coping (such as behavioral disengagement) and emotion-focused coping (such as denial and venting of emotions) compared to athletes who have low cognitive competitive anxiety. Furthermore, gender differences in cognitive anxiety and direction were found. Confidence management techniques such as positive self-talk, breathing techniques and visualization should be taught to athletes to assist them in coping with their competitive anxiety better and to enhance their performance.		[Pope-Rhodius, Alison] John F Kennedy Univ, Sport Psychol Program, Pleasant Hill, CA USA; [Kondric, Miran] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana 61000, Slovenia; [Kurimay, Dora] Pasareti Ut 110-A, H-1026 Budapest, Hungary								26							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500008	21	Article; Article		
J	Kolman, Nikki; Huijgen, Barbara; Kramer, Tamara; Elferink-Gemser, Marije; Visscher, Chris								The Dutch Technical-Tactical Tennis Test (D4T) for Talent Identification and Development: Psychometric Characteristics								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			127	138		10.1515/hukin-2017-0012			JAN 2017	2017	This study examined the test-retest reliability, validity and feasibility of the newly developed Dutch Technical Tactical Tennis Test (D4T). This new test is relevant for talent identification and development in tennis. Thirty-two youth male tennis players (age 13.4 +/- 0.5) were classified as elite (n = 15) or sub-elite (n = 17) according to their position on the national youth ranking list under 15 years (cut-off rank 50) in the Netherlands. Games, rallies and different tactical situations (i.e. offensive, neutral and defensive) were simulated with a ball machine. Players had to return 72 balls to predetermined target areas. Stroke quality was recorded based on ball velocity and accuracy (VA index), as well as percentage errors. Test-retest reliability was assessed by comparing differences between the first and second test-session (n = 10). An intraclass-correlation coefficient of.78 for the VA-index was found (p < .05), indicating excellent test-retest reliability. Independent t-tests revealed that elite players outscored sub-elite players for the VA index, ball velocity, accuracy and percentage errors (p < .05), supporting good validity. Furthermore, a high correlation was found between the VA-index and individual positions on the youth ranking list (r =-.75; p < .001). The assessment of feasibility indicated that the D4T was applicable for instructors and coaches. In conclusion, the D4T was shown to be a reliable, valid and feasible test to measure technical-tactical characteristics of tennis performance in youth players.		[Kolman, Nikki; Huijgen, Barbara; Kramer, Tamara; Elferink-Gemser, Marije; Visscher, Chris] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands; [Kramer, Tamara] HAN Univ Appl Sci, HAN Sports & Exercise, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Huijgen, Barbara] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500013	24	Article; Article		
J	Houwer, Ruben; Kramer, Tamara; den Hartigh, Ruud; Kolman, Nikki; Elferink-Gemser, Marije; Huijgen, Barbara								Mental Toughness in Talented Youth Tennis Players: A Comparison Between on-Court Observations and a Self-Reported Measure								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			139	148		10.1515/hukin-2017-0013			JAN 2017	2017	In tennis, mental toughness is often considered highly important in achieving the elite level. The current study is the first to examine behavioural expressions of mental toughness on the court and their relationships with selfreported measures. Based on the input of five experienced tennis coaches of junior tennis players and behaviours used in previous studies, we developed a taxonomy consisting of six positive behaviours and ten negative ones. To investigate the relationship between these on-court behaviours of mental toughness and how the players rated their own mental toughness, emotional control in particular, six talented tennis players (aged 10-13) were recorded during tennis matches and filled out the self-reported measure of mental toughness (MTQ48). The intra-and inter-rater reliability of the taxonomy was high. With regard to the relationships between on-court behaviours and self-reported mental toughness (total score and subscale emotional control), results revealed no significant correlations between the ratios of positive and negative behaviours (range r = -0.49 -0.11, p > 0.05) or between the variability of negative behaviours (r = 0.54 & r = 0.10, p > 0.05) and the self-reported measure. However, interestingly, we found negative correlations between the variability of positive behaviours and self-reported mental toughness (r = -0.93 & r = -0.84, p < 0.05). These results indicate that variability in on-court behaviours provides interesting information about tennis players' mental toughness, more specifically on the (in) stability of their psychological state during a match.		[Houwer, Ruben; Kramer, Tamara; Kolman, Nikki; Elferink-Gemser, Marije; Huijgen, Barbara] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands; [Kramer, Tamara] HAN Univ Appl Sci, HAN Sports & Exercise, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [den Hartigh, Ruud] Univ Groningen, Fac Behav & Social Sci, Dept Psychol, Groningen, Netherlands; [Huijgen, Barbara] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Ctr Human Movement Sci, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, NL-9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands								8							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500014	30	Article; Article		
J	Sekulic, Damir; Uljevic, Ognjen; Peric, Mia; Spasic, Miodrag; Kondric, Miran								Reliability and Factorial Validity of Non-Specific and Tennis-Specific Pre-Planned Agility Tests; Preliminary Analysis								JOURNAL OF HUMAN KINETICS				55	1			107	116		10.1515/hukin-2017-0010			JAN 2017	2017	Agility is an important quality in tennis, yet there is an evident lack of studies focussing on the applicability of tennis-specific agility performances and comparing them to equivalent non-specific agility performances. The aim of this study was to evaluate the reliability and factorial validity of three tests of pre-planned agility, performed in specific (with a tennis racquet) and non-specific (without a tennis racquet) conditions. The sample consisted of 33 tennis players (13 males and 20 females; age: 18.3 +/- 1.1 years and 18.6 +/- 1.3 years; body height: 185.4 +/- 51 cm and 169.3 +/- 4.2 cm, 74.0 +/- 4.4 kg and 61.2 +/- 3.1 kg, respectively). The variables comprised three agility tests: a 20-yard test, a T-test and the Illinois test, all performed in both specific and non-specific conditions. Between-subject and within-subject reliability were found to be high (Cronbach Alpha: 0.93 to 0.98; Coefficient of Variation: 3 to 8%), with better within-subject reliability and stability of the measurement for specific tests. Pearson's product moment correlations between the non-specific and specific agility performances were high (r >= 0.84), while factor analysis extracted only one significant latent dimension on the basis of the Guttman-Kaiser criterion. The results of the 20-yard test were better when the test was conducted in the specific conditions (t-test = 2.66; p < 0.05). For the Illinois test, superior results were recorded in the non-specific conditions (t-test = 2.96; p < 0.05), which can be explained by the test duration (about 20 s) and non-specific locomotion forms such as rotational movements. Considering the findings of the present study, when testing tennis-specific pre-planned agility, we suggest using tests of short duration (less than 10 s) and sport-specific types of locomotion.		[Sekulic, Damir; Uljevic, Ognjen; Peric, Mia; Spasic, Miodrag] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Teslina 6, Split 21000, Croatia; [Kondric, Miran] Univ Ljubljana, Fac Sport, Ljubljana, Slovenia; [Sekulic, Damir] Univ Split, Fac Kinesiol, Teslina 6, Split 21000, Croatia								24							Sport Sciences	WOS:000393123500011	25	Article; Article		
J	Krill, Michael K.; Borchers, James R.; Hoffman, Joshua T.; Tatarski, Rachel L.; Hewett, Timothy E.								Effect of Exposure Type and Timing of Injuries in Division I College Football: A 4-year Single Program Analysis								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	1			26	30		10.1080/00913847.2017.1279520			2017	2017	Background: Football players compete with a high risk of injury due to the sport. With the recent efforts to improve safety, the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) established new terminology to clearly define exposure types and reduce the number of high contact exposures. Objectives: To compare football injury rates (IR) with a focus on game versus practice, time in season of injury, mechanism of injury and utilizing recent exposure types defined by the NCAA (live contact, full-pads and non-contact). Methods: Licensed medical professionals monitored a college football program regular season from 2012-2015. Each injury was classified by timing of the injury, mechanism of injury, and whether it occurred in game or practice. Player attendance and type of exposure (non-contact, full-pad or live contact, which involves live tackling to the ground and/or full-speed blocking and can occur in full-pad or half-pad (shell') equipment) was documented. IR were calculated per 1000 athlete-exposures (AE). Mid-exact P tests compared rates between variables. Results: The game IR was over three times as high as the practice IR (p<.001). Live contact exposures had the greatest IR of 5.702/1000 AE and were seven times more likely to produce an injury compared to non-contact exposures (p<.001); whereas, live contact exposures were about two times more likely to produce an injury compared to full-pad exposures (p=.004). The majority of injuries observed occurred from a contact mechanism (IR: 2.508/1000 AE). The highest IR during the fall football season occurred in the pre-season at 5.769/1000 AE. Conclusion: Overall IR observed in this cohort were lower than prior studies published before recent NCAA rule changes and guideline implementation to improve athlete safety. Athletes in this cohort were at significantly increased risk of injury from live contact exposures.		[Krill, Michael K.; Borchers, James R.; Hoffman, Joshua T.; Tatarski, Rachel L.] Ohio State Univ, Sports Med Res Inst, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Krill, Michael K.] Florida Atlantic Univ, Charles E Schmidt Coll Med, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA; [Borchers, James R.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Family Med, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Hewett, Timothy E.] Mayo Clin, Ctr Sports Med, Orthoped Biomech Lab, Rochester, MN USA; [Hewett, Timothy E.] Mayo Clin, Dept Orthoped, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55902 USA; [Krill, Michael K.; Borchers, James R.; Hoffman, Joshua T.; Tatarski, Rachel L.; Hewett, Timothy E.] Ohio State Univ, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Hewett, Timothy E.] Mayo Clin, Dept Orthoped, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55902 USA								13							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000394618700005	29	Article; Article		
J	Gage, Mark J.; Park, Brian K.; Strauss, Eric J.								Reduction of anterior glenohumeral dislocations: a new closed reduction technique								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	1			22	25		10.1080/00913847.2017.1272400			2017	2017	Objective: A new closed reduction technique for anterior glenohumeral dislocations and tuberosity fracture dislocations is introduced. Methods: Forty-one consecutive patients with an acute anterior glenohumeral dislocation or tuberosity fracture dislocation underwent closed reduction by an orthopaedic surgeon employing this new method. Results: Closed reduction was successful in 88% of patients using the reduction maneuver. Associated fracture with glenohumeral dislocation did not influence the success rate of the reduction maneuver. An assistant was needed in 15% of cases. No complications related to the reduction maneuver were noted amongst the cohort. Conclusion: This novel reduction technique is safe demonstrating excellent success rates both for anterior shoulder dislocations and tuberosity fracture-dislocations.		[Gage, Mark J.; Park, Brian K.; Strauss, Eric J.] NYU, Hosp Joint Dis, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New York, NY 10003 USA; [Gage, Mark J.] NYU, Hosp Joint Dis, Dept Orthopaed Surg, New York, NY 10003 USA								1							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000394618700004	8	Article; Article		
J	Gouttebarge, Vincent; Johnson, Urban; Rochcongar, Pierre; Rosier, Philippe; Kerkhoffs, Gino								Symptoms of common mental disorders among professional football referees: a one-season prospective study across Europe								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	1			11	16		10.1080/00913847.2017.1248796			2017	2017	Objective: The primary aim of this study was to determine the prevalence and one-season incidence of symptoms of common mental disorders (CMD; distress, anxiety/depression, sleep disturbance, eating disorders, adverse alcohol use) among European professional football referees. A secondary aim was to explore the view of European professional football referees on consequences, support and needs related to these symptoms. Methods: An observational prospective cohort study with three measurements over a follow-up period of one season (2015-2016) was conducted among central or assistant professional football referees from Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Norway, Russia, Scotland and Sweden. Using validated questionnaires to assess symptoms of CMD (self-reported and not clinically diagnosed), an electronic questionnaire in English and French was set up and distributed by the eight football federations involved. Results: A total of 391 referees (mean age of 33years old; mean career duration of 7 years) were enrolled, of which 292 completed the follow-up period. Baseline 4-week prevalence rates were 6% for distress, 12% for anxiety/depression, 9% for sleep disturbance, 19% for eating disorders and 17% for adverse alcohol use. The one-season incidence of symptoms of CMD was 10% for distress, 16% for anxiety/depression, 14% for sleep disturbance, 29% for eating disorders and 8% for adverse alcohol use. Conclusion: While symptoms of CMD occur among professional football referees and can influence negatively refereeing performances, the development of specific support measures for referees are needed in order to manage properly these symptoms of CMD.		[Gouttebarge, Vincent; Kerkhoffs, Gino] Acad Med Ctr, Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent; Kerkhoffs, Gino] Acad Med Ctr, Dept Orthopaed Surg, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Univ Cape Town, Div Exercise Sci & Sports Med, Cape Town, South Africa; [Johnson, Urban] Halmstad Univ, Halmstad, Sweden; [Rochcongar, Pierre] Federat Francaise Football, Paris, France; [Rochcongar, Pierre] FIFA Med Ctr Excellence, Ctr Natl Football, Clairefontaine, France; [Rosier, Philippe] Royal Belgian Football Assoc, Brussels, Belgium; [Rosier, Philippe] Univ Fernando Pessoa, Ctr Rech Appl Psychopedag Percept, Oporto, Portugal; [Kerkhoffs, Gino] Vrije Univ Amsterdam Med Ctr, Acad Med Ctr, ACHSS, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gouttebarge, Vincent] Acad Med Ctr, Meibergdreef 9, NL-1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands								41							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000394618700002	31	Article; Article		
J	Gardner, Ryan M.; Yengo-Kahn, Aaron; Bonfield, Christopher M.; Solomon, Gary S.								Comparison of baseline and post-concussion ImPACT test scores in young athletes with stimulant-treated and untreated ADHD								PHYSICIAN AND SPORTSMEDICINE				45	1			1	10		10.1080/00913847.2017.1248221			2017	2017	Objectives: Baseline and post-concussion neurocognitive testing is useful in managing concussed athletes. Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and stimulant medications are recognized as potential modifiers of performance on neurocognitive testing by the Concussion in Sport Group. Our goal was to assess whether individuals with ADHD perform differently on post-concussion testing and if this difference is related to the use of stimulants. Methods: Retrospective case-control study in which 4373 athletes underwent baseline and post-concussion testing using the ImPACT battery. 277 athletes self-reported a history of ADHD, of which, 206 reported no stimulant treatment and 69 reported stimulant treatment. Each group was matched with participants reporting no history of ADHD or stimulant use on several biopsychosocial characteristics. Non-parametric tests were used to assess ImPACT composite score differences between groups. Results: Participants with ADHD had worse verbal memory, visual memory, visual motor speed, and reaction time scores than matched controls at baseline and post-concussion, all with p <=.001 and vertical bar r vertical bar >= 0.100. Athletes without stimulant treatment had lower verbal memory, visual memory, visual motor speed, and reaction time scores than controls at baseline (p <= 0.01, vertical bar r vertical bar >= 0.100 [except verbal memory, r=-0.088]) and post-concussion (p=0.000, vertical bar r vertical bar> 0.100). Athletes with stimulant treatment had lower verbal memory (Baseline: p=0.047, r=-0.108; Post-concussion: p=0.023, r=-0.124) and visual memory scores (Baseline: p=0.013, r=-0.134; Post-concussion: p=0.003, r=-0.162) but equivalent visual motor speed and reaction time scores versus controls at baseline and post-concussion. Conclusions: ADHD-specific baseline and post-concussion neuropsychological profiles, as well as stimulant medication status, may need to be considered when interpreting ImPACT test results. Further investigation into the effects of ADHD and stimulant use on recovery from sport-related concussion (SRC) is warranted.		[Gardner, Ryan M.; Yengo-Kahn, Aaron; Bonfield, Christopher M.; Solomon, Gary S.] Vanderbilt Univ, Sch Med, Vanderbilt Sports Concuss Ctr, 3000 Vanderbilt Pl,Apartment 147, Nashville, TN 37212 USA; [Yengo-Kahn, Aaron; Bonfield, Christopher M.; Solomon, Gary S.] Vanderbilt Univ, Sch Med, Dept Neurol Surg, Nashville, TN 37212 USA; [Gardner, Ryan M.] Vanderbilt Univ, Sch Med, Vanderbilt Sports Concuss Ctr, 3000 Vanderbilt Pl,Apartment 147, Nashville, TN 37212 USA								39							Primary Health Care; Orthopedics; Sport Sciences	WOS:000394618700001	60	Article; Article		
J	Matthews, Martyn J.; Green, Daniel; Matthews, Helen; Swanwick, Emma								The effects of swimming fatigue on shoulder strength, range of motion, joint control, and performance in swimmers								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				118	122		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.08.011			JAN 2017	2017	Purpose: To investigate the effects of training induced fatigue on shoulder strength, ROM, joint position sense, and stroke length in elite competitive swimmers. Methods: Seventeen national level swimmers performed maximum isometric strength (internal and external rotation), ROM, and joint position sense tests before and after a fatiguing 8 x 100 m training set. Stroke length, heart rate, blood lactate and blood glucose levels were recorded throughout. Results: Peak blood lactate, blood glucose levels, and heart rate increased significantly (P<0.001) post training confirming fatigue. Reductions were observed in stroke length of both arms (P<0.001), external rotation range of motion (P<0.001, 5.29, Right shoulder; P = 0.04, -3.18 degrees, Left shoulder) and joint position sense in their dominant (breathing side) arm (P = 0.03). Conclusions: This investigation revealed a reduction in stroke length across both arms and also an arm bias in swimming whereby a greater reduction in both external rotation range and joint position sense was observed in the dominant arm when fatigued. This has highlighted a relationship between fatigue and potential mechanism of shoulder pathology in swimmers. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Matthews, Martyn J.; Green, Daniel; Matthews, Helen; Swanwick, Emma] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth Sci, Frederick Rd, Salford M6 6PU, Greater Manches, England; [Matthews, Martyn J.] Univ Salford, Sch Hlth Sci, Frederick Rd, Salford M6 6PU, Greater Manches, England								61							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200018	38	Article; Article		
J	Longo, Stefano; Corradi, Alberto; Michielon, Giovanni; Sardanelli, Francesco; Sconfienza, Luca Maria								Ultrasound evaluation of the subacromial space in healthy subjects performing three different positions of shoulder abduction in both loaded and unloaded conditions								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				105	112		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.08.007			JAN 2017	2017	Background: Subacromial space (SS) narrowing may result in unsafe contact of rotator cuff tendons and bursa with the acromion, possibly promoting rotator cuff pathologies and pain. We measured SS in asymptomatic subjects after three movements employed for shoulder muscles' training. Participants and main outcome measures: Twenty-five males (age 24 +/- 5years; stature 175 +/- 8 cm; body mass 74 12 kg) underwent SS ultrasound evaluation while executing with (WL) and without (NL) 4-kg load: 90 degrees shoulder abduction (SA) without humerus rotation (90 degrees(neutral)); 90 degrees SA maximal humeral external rotation (90,); maximum SA (above 90) during upright row (UR). For inter-operator reliability analysis, a subset of 12 subjects was assessed by two operators. Results: Intra/inter-operator reliability coefficients were high (ICC>0.87; standard error of measurement range: 0.23-0.51 mm; minimum detectable change range: 0.61-1.79 mm). ANOVA revealed significant differences between loads (p = 0.003, eta(2) = 0.37) and angles (p < 0.001, eta(2) = 0.72), and interaction (p = 0.004, eta(2) = 0.45). Normalized SS values WL were higher at 90 degrees(er) vs. 90 degrees(neutral) and UR (p < 0.001 for both). Differences in NL were found between 90 degrees(neutral) and both 90 degrees(er) (p = 0.002) and UR (p = 0.009). Conclusions: When holding a 4-kg load, SS is larger at 90 degrees(er) than at 90 degrees(neutral) and UR shoulder abduction positions. In unloaded condition, SS at 90 degrees(neutral) is reduced compared to 90 degrees(er) and UR. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Longo, Stefano; Corradi, Alberto; Michielon, Giovanni; Sardanelli, Francesco; Sconfienza, Luca Maria] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Via Mangiagalli 31, I-20133 Milan, Italy; [Corradi, Alberto] IRCCS Policlin San Donato, Unit Orthopaed Surg & Traumatol, Piazza Malan 1, I-20097 San Donato Milanese, Italy; [Sardanelli, Francesco] IRCCS Policlin San Donato, Radiol Unit, Piazza Malan 1, I-20097 San Donato Milanese, Italy; [Sconfienza, Luca Maria] IRCCS Ist Ortoped Galeazzi, Unit Diagnost & Intervent Radiol, Via Riccardo Galeazzi 4, I-20161 Milan, Italy; [Longo, Stefano] Univ Milan, Dept Biomed Sci Hlth, Via Mangiagalli 31, I-20133 Milan, Italy								14							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200016	46	Article; Article		
J	Heaney, Caroline A.; Rostron, Claire L.; Walker, Natalie C.; Green, Alison J. K.								Is there a link between previous exposure to sport injury psychology education and UK sport injury rehabilitation professionals' attitudes and behaviour towards sport psychology?								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				99	104		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.08.006			JAN 2017	2017	Objectives: The use of sport psychology strategies during sport injury rehabilitation can lead to several positive outcomes such as improved adherence and self-efficacy. The purpose of this study was to compare the sport psychology related attitudes and behaviours of UK sport injury rehabilitation professionals (SIRPs) who had studied the psychological aspects of sport injury to those who had not. Participants and design: Ninety-four SIRPs (54 physiotherapists and 40 sports therapists with a mean of 9.22 years' experience of working in sport) completed an online survey and were grouped according to their level of previous exposure to sport injury psychology education at an undergraduate/postgraduate level. Analyses were undertaken to establish whether there were any differences in sport psychology related attitude (MANOVA), usage (MANOVA), and referral behaviours (chi square) between the groups. Results: The MANOVA and chi square tests conducted revealed that those who had studied the psychological aspects of sport injury reported using significantly more sport psychology in their practice and making more referrals to sport psychologists. Conclusions: It was concluded that sport injury psychology education appears to be effective in increasing the sport psychology related behaviours (use of sport psychology and referral) of SIRPs and should be integrated into professional training. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Heaney, Caroline A.; Rostron, Claire L.; Green, Alison J. K.] Open Univ, Walton Hall, Milton Keynes MK7 6AA, Bucks, England; [Walker, Natalie C.] Birmingham City Univ, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Heaney, Caroline A.] Open Univ, Walton Hall, Milton Keynes MK7 6AA, Bucks, England								7							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200015	29	Article; Article		
J	Sinclair, Jonathan K.; Vincent, Hayley; Richards, Jim D.								Effects of prophylactic knee bracing on knee joint kinetics and kinematics during netball specific movements								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				93	98		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.08.005			JAN 2017	2017	Objective: To investigate the effects of a prophylactic knee brace on knee joint kinetics and kinematics during netball specific movements. Design: Repeated measures. Setting: Laboratory. Participants: Twenty university first team level female netball players. Outcome measurements: Participants performed three movements, run, cut and vertical jump under two conditions (brace and no-brace). 3-D knee joint kinetics and kinematics were measured using an eight camera motion analysis system. Knee joint kinetics and kinematics were examined using 2 x 3 repeated measures ANOVA whilst the subjective ratings of comfort and stability were investigated using chi-squared tests. Results: The results showed no differences (p > 0.05) in knee joint kinetics. However the internal/external rotation range of motion was significantly (p < 0.05) reduced when wearing the brace in all movements. The subjective ratings of stability revealed that netballers felt that the knee brace improved knee stability in all movements. Conclusions: Further study is required to determine whether reductions in transverse plane knee range of motion serve to attenuate the risk from injury in netballers. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sinclair, Jonathan K.; Vincent, Hayley] Univ Cent Lancashire, Coll Hlth & Wellbeing, Sch Sport & Wellbeing, Ctr Appl Sport & Exercise Sci, Preston, Lancs, England; [Vincent, Hayley; Richards, Jim D.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Coll Hlth & Wellbeing, Sch Hlth Sci, Allied Hlth Res Unit, Preston, Lancs, England; [Sinclair, Jonathan K.] Univ Cent Lancashire, Sch Sport & Wellbeing, Ctr Appl Sport Exercise & Nutr Sci, Preston PR1 2HE, Lancs, England								29							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200014	30	Article; Article		
J	Edwards, Suzi; Brooke, Hiram C.; Cook, Jill L.								Distinct cut task strategy in Australian football players with a history of groin pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				58	66		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.07.005			JAN 2017	2017	Objectives: This study aimed to explore the differences in the magnitude of movement variability and strategies utilized during an unanticipated cut task between players with and without a history of groin pain. Design: Cross-sectional design. Setting: Biomechanics laboratory. Particiants: Male Australian football players with (HISTORY; n = 7) or without (CONTROL; n = 10) a history of groin pain. Outcome measures: Three-dimensional ground reaction forces (GRF) and kinematics were recorded during 10 successful trials of an unanticipated cut task, and isolcinetic hip adduction and abduction strength. Between-group differences were determined using independent-samples t-tests and the coefficient of variation (CV). Results: Key substantial between-group differences identified were that the HISTORY group displayed decreased knee flexion and hip internal rotation, increased knee internal rotation and T12-L1 right rotation, and higher GRFs during the cut task. They also utilized three invariant systems (ankle, knee and T12-L1 joints), while being connected by a segment (hip and L5-S1 joints) that displayed increased lumbopelvic movement during the cut task, and decreased adductor muscle strength. Conclusion: This identifies the need for clinical management of the lower limb and thoracic segment to improve functional movement patterns in athletes with a history of a groin injury. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Edwards, Suzi] Univ Newcastle, Sch Environm & Life Sci, 10 Chittaway Rd, Ourimbah, NSW 2522, Australia; [Edwards, Suzi; Brooke, Hiram C.] Charles Sturt Univ, Sch Exercise Sci Sport & Hlth, Bathurst, NSW, Australia; [Cook, Jill L.] La Trobe Univ, Fac Hlth Sci, Bundoora, Vic, Australia; [Edwards, Suzi] Univ Newcastle, Sch Environm & Life Sci, 10 Chittaway Rd, Ourimbah, NSW 2522, Australia								27							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200009	43	Article; Article		
J	Horsak, Brian; Kiener, Marion; Poetzelsberger, Andreas; Siragy, Tarique								Serratus anterior and trapezius muscle activity during knee push-up plus and knee-plus exercises performed on a stable, an unstable surface and during sling-suspension								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				86	92		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.08.003			JAN 2017	2017	Objectives: Push-up plus variations are commonly prescribed to clients during shoulder rehabilitation. The purpose of this study was to compare electromyographic (EMG) activities of the serratus anterior (SA), upper (UT), and lower trapezius (LT) during a knee push-up plus and knee-plus exercise performed on various surfaces. Study design: Within-subjects Repeated-Measure Design. Participants: 19 healthy, young female participants performed both exercises on a stable and unstable surface and during sling-suspension. Outcome measures: Surface EMG activities were recorded and average amplitudes were presented as a percentage of the maximal voluntary contraction. A two-way repeated-measures ANOVA was performed to determine differences in activity for each muscle. Results: SA showed no significant differences between exercises and was independent of the base of support (p>0.05). Muscle activity of UT (95% CI [1.2, 1.4]) and CI (95% CI [2.4, 3.5]) showed slightly greater values when performing the knee push-up plus compared to the knee-plus exercise. Conclusions: The isolated protraction of the shoulder girdle in a kneeling position is as sufficient as the push-up plus in activating the SA selectively. Therefore, we recommended this exercise for clients who are unable to perform an entire push-up or should avoid detrimental stress on the shoulder joint. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Horsak, Brian; Poetzelsberger, Andreas; Siragy, Tarique] St Polten Univ Appl Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, AUT, St Polten, Austria; [Horsak, Brian; Siragy, Tarique] St Polten Univ Appl Sci, Inst Hlth Sci, AUT, St Polten, Austria; [Kiener, Marion] Neurol Rehabil Ctr Gmundnerberg, Dept Physiotherapy, AUT, St Polten, Austria; [Horsak, Brian] St Polten Univ Appl Sci, Dept Physiotherapy, AUT, St Polten, Austria								10							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200013	29	Article; Article		
J	Grabowski, Patrick; Wilson, John; Walker, Alyssa; Enz, Dan; Wang, Sijian								Multimodal impairment-based physical therapy for the treatment of patients with post-concussion syndrome: A retrospective analysis on safety and feasibility								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				22	30		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.06.001			JAN 2017	2017	Objective: Demonstrate implementation, safety and feasibility of multimodal, impairment-based physical therapy (PT) combining vestibular/oculomotor and cervical rehabilitation with sub-symptom threshold exercise for the treatment of patients with post-concussion syndrome (PCS). Setting: University hospital outpatient sports medicine facility. Participants: Twenty-five patients (12-20 years old) meeting World Health Organization criteria for PCS following sport-related concussion referred for supervised PT consisting of sub-symptom cardiovascular exercise, vestibular/oculomotor and cervical spine rehabilitation. Design: Retrospective cohort. Main measures: Post-Concussion Symptom Scale (PCSS) total score, maximum symptom-free heart rate (SFHR) during graded exercise testing (GXT), GXT duration, balance error scoring system (BESS) score, and number of adverse events. Results: Patients demonstrated a statistically significant decreasing trend (p < 0.01) for total PCSS scores (pre-PT M = 18.2 (SD = 14.2), post -PT M = 9.1 (SD = 10.8), n = 25). Maximum SFHR achieved on GXT increased 23% (p < 0.01, n = 14), and BESS errors decreased 52% (p<0.01, n = 13). Two patients reported mild symptom exacerbation with aerobic exercise at home, attenuated by adjustment of the home exercise program. Conclusions: Multimodal, impairment-based PT is safe and associated with diminishing PCS symptoms. This establishes feasibility for future clinical trials to determine viable treatment approaches to reduce symptoms and improve function while avoiding negative repercussions of physical inactivity and premature return to full activity. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Grabowski, Patrick; Enz, Dan] Univ Wisconsin Hosp & Clin, 621 Sci Dr, Madison, WI 53711 USA; [Grabowski, Patrick] Univ Wisconsin, Phys Therapy Program, 1725 State St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA; [Wilson, John; Walker, Alyssa] Univ Wisconsin, Sch Med & Publ Hlth, 1685 Highland Ave, Madison, WI 53705 USA; [Wang, Sijian] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Biostat, 600 Highland Ave, Madison, WI 53705 USA; [Grabowski, Patrick] Univ Wisconsin, Phys Therapy Program, 1725 State St, La Crosse, WI 54601 USA								73							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200004	59	Article; Article		
J	Grindstaff, Terry L.; Dolan, Nadyne; Morton, Sam K.								Ankle dorsiflexion range of motion influences Lateral Step Down Test scores in individuals with chronic ankle instability								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				75	81		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.07.008			JAN 2017	2017	Objectives: To determine differences in ankle dorsiflexion range of motion (ROM) between three groups of individuals with chronic ankle instability (CAI) based on Lateral Step Down Test quality of movement. The secondary purpose was to quantify the relationship between ankle dorsiflexion ROM and Lateral Step Down Test scores. Design: Descriptive laboratory study. Setting: University research laboratory. Participants: Fifty-nine participants with CAI. Main outcome measures: Differences in ankle dorsiflexion ROM between three lateral Step Down Test movement quality groups (good, moderate, poor) was determined using an analysis of variance. The relationship between outcome variables was determined using a Spearman rank correlation coefficient. Results: Significantly less ankle dorsiflexion ROM was observed in individuals with poor movement quality (36.0 +/- 6.6 degrees) compared to good (42.3 +/- 6.4 degrees). Individuals with moderate movement quality did not have ankle dorsiflexion ROM (39.1 +/- 6.2 degrees) that was significantly different from either group. There was a negative correlation (r = -0.39) between ankle dorsiflexion ROM and Lateral Step Down Test scores. Conclusions: Participants in the poor movement quality group had 6 less ankle dorsiflexion ROM than participants in the good movement quality group. While ankle dorsiflexion ROM is associated with Lateral Step Down Test scores additional factors likely contribute to movement dysfunction in individuals with CAI. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Grindstaff, Terry L.] Creighton Univ, Phys Therapy Dept, 2500 Calif Plaza,Boyne 154, Omaha, NE 68178 USA; [Dolan, Nadyne] ATI Phys Therapy, Greenville, SC 29605 USA; [Morton, Sam K.] Bonner Gen Hlth, Sandpoint, ID 83864 USA; [Grindstaff, Terry L.] Creighton Univ, Phys Therapy Dept, 2500 Calif Plaza,Boyne 154, Omaha, NE 68178 USA								23							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200011	56	Article; Article		
J	Vercelli, Stefano; Colombo, Claudio; Tolosa, Francesca; Moriondo, Andrea; Bravini, Elisabetta; Ferriero, Giorgio; Francesco, Sartorio								The effects of kinesio taping on the color intensity of superficial skin hematomas: A pilot study								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				156	161		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.06.005			JAN 2017	2017	Objectives: To analyze the effects of kinesio taping (KT)-applied with three different strains that induced or not the formation of skin creases (called convolutions)-on color intensity of post-surgical superficial hematomas. Design: Single-blind paired study. Setting: Rehabilitation clinic. Participants: A convenience sample of 13 inpatients with post-surgical superficial hematomas. Interventions: The tape was applied for 24 consecutive hours. Three tails of KT were randomly applied with different degrees of strain: none (SN); light (SL); and full longitudinal stretch (SF). We expected to obtain correct formation of convolutions with SL, some convolutions with SN, and no convolutions with SF. Main outcome measures: The change in color intensity of hematomas, measured by means of polar coordinates CIE L*a(x)b* using a validated and standardized digital images system. Results: Applying KT to hematomas did not significantly change the color intensity in the central area under the tape (p >0.05). There was a significant treatment effect (p < 0.05) under the edges of the tape, independently of the formation of convolutions (p > 0.05). Conclusions: The changes observed along the edges of the tape could be related to the formation of a pressure gradient between the KT and the adjacent area, but were not dependent on the formation of skin convolutions. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Vercelli, Stefano; Ferriero, Giorgio; Francesco, Sartorio] Salvatore Maugeri Fdn IRCCS, Unit Occupat Rehabil & Ergon, Veruno, NO, Italy; [Moriondo, Andrea] Univ Insubria, Dept Surg & Morphol Sci, Varese, Italy; [Bravini, Elisabetta] Univ Roma Tor Vergata, Sch Adv Sci & Technol Rehabil Med & Sport, Rome, Italy; [Vercelli, Stefano] Ist Sci Veruno, IRCCS, Fdn Salvatore Maugeri, Serv Fisiatria Occupaz & Ergon, Via Revislate 13, I-28010 Veruno, NO, Italy								12							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200023	17	Article; Article		
J	Attenborough, Alison S.; Sinclair, Peter J.; Sharp, Tristan; Greene, Andrew; Stuelcken, Max; Smith, Richard M.; Hiller, Claire E.								The identification of risk factors for ankle sprains sustained during netball participation								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				31	36		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.06.009			JAN 2017	2017	Objectives: Ankle sprains account for a large percentage of injuries sustained in netball. The identification of risk factors for ankle sprain is the preliminary action required to inform future prevention strategies. Design: Prospective study. Participants: Ninety-four netball players from club and inter-district teams. Methods: Preseason data were collected for; vertical jump height, perceived ankle instability, sprain history, arthrometry inversion-eversion angles, star excursion balance test reach distances, the number of foot lifts during unilateral stance and demi-pointe balance test results. Participants were followed for the duration of one netball season and ankle sprains were recorded. Results: Eleven sprains were recorded for eleven players using a time-loss definition of injury. Ankle sprains occurred at an incidence rate of 1.7411000 h of netball exposure. One risk factor was identified to increase the odds of sustaining an ankle sprain during netball participation - a reach distance in the posterior-medial direction of the star excursion balance test of less than or equal to 77.5% of leg length (OR = 4.04, 95% Cl = 1.00-16.35). Conclusions: The identified risk factor can be easily measured and should be considered for preseason injury risk profiling of netball players. Netball players may benefit from training programs aimed at improving single leg balance. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Attenborough, Alison S.; Sinclair, Peter J.; Greene, Andrew; Stuelcken, Max; Smith, Richard M.] Univ Sydney, Exercise & Sport Sci Discipline, 75 East St, Lidcombe, NSW 2141, Australia; [Hiller, Claire E.] Univ Sydney, Arthrit & Musculoskeletal Res Grp, 75 East St, Lidcombe, NSW 2141, Australia; [Sharp, Tristan] Univ Sydney, Sydney Univ Sport & Fitness, Darlington Rd & Codrington St, Darlington, NSW 2008, Australia; [Greene, Andrew] Univ Roehampton, Dept Life Sci, London SW15 5PU, England; [Stuelcken, Max] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sch Hlth & Sport Sci, 90 Sippy Downs Dr, Sippy Downs, Qld 4556, Australia; [Attenborough, Alison S.] Univ Sydney, Exercise & Sport Sci Discipline, 75 East St, Lidcombe, NSW 2141, Australia								55							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200005	42	Article; Article		
J	Tak, I. J. R.; Langhout, R. F. H.; Groters, S.; Weir, A.; Stubbe, J. H.; Kerkhoffs, G. M. M. J.								A new clinical test for measurement of lower limb specific range of motion in football players: Design, reliability and reference findings in non-injured players and those with long-standing adductor-related groin pain								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				67	74		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.07.007			JAN 2017	2017	Objective: The association between groin pain and range of motion is poorly understood. The aim of this study was to develop a test to measure sport specific range of motion (SSROM) of the lower limb, to evaluate its reliability and describe findings in non-injured (NI) and injured football players. Design: Case-controlled. Setting: 6 Dutch elite clubs, 6 amateur clubs and a sports medicine practice. Participants: 103 NI elite and 83 NI amateurs and 57 football players with unilateral adductor-related groin pain. Main outcome measures: Sport specific hip extension, adduction, abduction, internal and external rotation of both legs were examined with inclinometers. Test-retest reliability (ICC), standard error of measurement (SEM) and minimal detectable change (MDC) were calculated. Non-injured players were compared with the injured group. Results: Intra and inter tester ICCs were acceptable and ranged from 0.90 to 0.98 and 0.50-0.88. SEM ranged from 13 to 9.2 and MDC from 3.7 to 25.6 degrees for single directions and total SSROM. Both non injured elite and amateur players had very similar total SSROM in non-dominant and dominant legs (188-190, SD +/- 25). Injured players had significant (p <0.05) total SSROM deficits with 187(SD 31) on the healthy and 135(SD +/- 29) on the injured side. Conclusion: The SSROM test shows acceptable reliability. Loss of SSROM is found on the injured side in football players with unilateral adductor-related groin pain. Whether this is the cause or effect of groin pain cannot be stated due to the study design. Whether restoration of SSROM in injured players leads to improved outcomes should be investigated in new studies. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Tak, I. J. R.] Physiotherapy Utrecht Oost, Sports Rehabil & Manual Therapy Unit, Bloemstr 65D, NL-3581 WD Utrecht, Netherlands; [Tak, I. J. R.; Langhout, R. F. H.] Dutch Inst Allied Hlth Care, Masters Program Phys Therapy Sports, Amersfoort, Netherlands; [Tak, I. J. R.; Kerkhoffs, G. M. M. J.] Acad Med Ctr Amsterdam, Dept Orthopaed & Sports Traumatol, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Tak, I. J. R.; Kerkhoffs, G. M. M. J.] Acad Ctr Evidence Based Sports Med ACES, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Langhout, R. F. H.; Groters, S.] Physiotherapy Dukenburg, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Langhout, R. F. H.] SOMT, Masters Program Manual Therapy, Amersfoort, Netherlands; [Weir, A.] Aspetar Hosp, Sports Groin Pain Ctr, Sports Med Dept, Doha, Qatar; [Stubbe, J. H.] Amsterdam Univ Appl Sci, Sch Sports & Nutr, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Tak, I. J. R.] Physiotherapy Utrecht Oost, Sports Rehabil & Manual Therapy Unit, Bloemstr 65D, NL-3581 WD Utrecht, Netherlands								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200010	42	Article; Article		
J	Smith, T. O.; de Medici, A.; Oduoza, U.; Hakim, A.; Paton, B.; Retter, G.; Haddad, F. S.; Macgregor, A.								National survey to evaluate musuloskeletal health in retired professional ballet dancers in the United Kingdom								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				82	85		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.07.009			JAN 2017	2017	Objectives: To explore the musculoskeletal health of retired professional ballet dancers in the United Kingdom (UK). Design: Online national survey. Participants: Retired professional ballet dancers living in the UK. Methods: The survey explored: what musculoskeletal injuries or diseases are experienced by retired professional ballet dancers; which anatomical regions were affected by musculoskeletal injuries or diseases in retired professional ballet dancers; whether ballet dancers were forced to retire from professional ballet due to musculoskeletal injuries or disease. Results: Forty-six retired ballet dancers responded. Thirty-six percent (n = 17) of respondents reported retiring from ballet due to musculoskeletal injury. The median age when respondents retired from professional ballet was 29 years. The most common issues that caused people to retire were hip and back pain (25%; n = 9 respectively), followed by hamstring injuries, ankle injuries, cervical spine injuries, and anterior knee pain (13% respectively; n = 5). Ninety-one percent (n = 42) reported experiencing muscle and joint pain post-retirement. Conclusions: Musculoskeletal pain and disease was a problem for respondents in this study. Further investigation is needed to define the problem, so management can be examined. Comparing performance and training regimes to injury rates in professional dancers, and then following these cohorts into retirement, would increase knowledge on this population. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Smith, T. O.] Univ East Anglia, Sch Hlth Sci, Queens Bldg,Norwich Res Pk, Norwich NR4 7TJ, Norfolk, England; [de Medici, A.; Paton, B.; Haddad, F. S.] UCL, Inst Sports Exercise & Hlth, London, England; [Oduoza, U.] Whittington Hosp NHS Trust, Whittington Hosp, Emergency Med, London, England; [Hakim, A.] Hosp St John & St Elizabeth, Hypermobil Unit, London, England; [Retter, G.] Royal Ballet, Ballet Healthcare, London, England; [Macgregor, A.] Univ East Anglia, Norwich Med Sch, Norwich, Norfolk, England; [Smith, T. O.] Univ East Anglia, Sch Hlth Sci, Queens Bldg,Norwich Res Pk, Norwich NR4 7TJ, Norfolk, England								19							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200012	26	Article; Article		
J	Csapo, Robert; Folie, Ramona; Hosp, Simona; Hasler, Michael; Nachbauer, Werner								Why do we suffer more ACL injuries in the cold? A pilot study into potential risk factors								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				14	21		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.07.004			JAN 2017	2017	Objectives: This study aimed to investigate temperature-related changes in different neuro-muscular parameters, to elucidate the reasons for the increased likeliness of injuries of the anterior cruciate ligament under cold environmental conditions. Design: Repeated measures study design. Methods: To induce peripheral cooling of the knee joint and thigh muscles, ten healthy, female subjects underwent 30 min of exposure to a cold environment. Both knee extensor and flexor muscles were examined for electromyographic activity, maximum voluntary contraction strength, rate of force development and force sense. Measures of knee laxity were obtained by computerized arthrometry. Results: Following cold exposure, rate of force development of the knee flexor muscles was significantly reduced (p = 0.016). Left-shifts of electromyography power spectra indicated changes in neural drive to the medial and lateral head of the vastus muscle. Maximum strength, force sense and knee laxity were not affected by the intervention. Conclusion: The reduced capacity of cold knee flexor muscles to explosively generate force may limit the hamstrings' capability to counter strong and fast contractions of the knee extensor muscles that cause anterior shear force on the tibia and, thus, strain the anterior cruciate ligament. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Csapo, Robert; Folie, Ramona; Nachbauer, Werner] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Furstenweg 185, Innsbruck, Austria; [Hosp, Simona; Hasler, Michael] Ctr Technol Ski & Alpine Sport, Furstenweg 187, Innsbruck, Austria; [Csapo, Robert] Univ Innsbruck, Dept Sport Sci, Furstenweg 185, Innsbruck, Austria								18							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200003	56	Article; Article		
J	Delahunt, Earnonn; Fitzpatrick, Helen; Blake, Catherine								Pre-season adductor squeeze test and HAGOS function sport and recreation subscale scores predict groin injury in Gaelic football players								PHYSICAL THERAPY IN SPORT				23				1	6		10.1016/j.ptsp.2016.07.002			JAN 2017	2017	Objective: To determine if pre-season adductor squeeze test and HAGOS function, sport and recreation subscale scores can identify Gaelic football players at risk of developing groin injury. Design: Prospective study. Setting: Senior inter-county Gaelic football team. Participants: Fifty-five male elite Gaelic football players (age = 24.0 +/- 2.8 years, body mass = 84.48 +/- 7.67 kg, height = 1.85 +/- 0.06 m, BMI = 24.70 +/- 1.77 kg/m(2)) from a single senior inter county Gaelic football team. Main outcome measures: Occurrence of groin injury during the season. Results: Ten time-loss groin injuries were registered representing 13% of all injuries. The odds ratio for sustaining a groin injury if pre-season adductor squeeze test score was below 225 mmHg, was 7.78. The odds ratio for sustaining a groin injury if pre-season HAGOS function, sport and recreation subscale score was <87.5 was 8.94. Furthermore, for each additional point on the numerical rating scale pain rating during performance of the adductor squeeze test, the odds of groin injury increased by 2.16. Conclusion: This study provides preliminary evidence that pre-season adductor squeeze test and HAGOS function, sport and recreation subscale scores can be used to identify Gaelic football players at risk of developing groin injury. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Delahunt, Earnonn; Fitzpatrick, Helen; Blake, Catherine] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Dublin, Ireland; [Delahunt, Earnonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Inst Sport & Hlth, Dublin, Ireland; [Delahunt, Earnonn] Univ Coll Dublin, Sch Publ Hlth, Sch Publ Hlth Physiotherapy & Sports Sci, Hlth Sci Ctr, Dublin 4, Ireland								53							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000393262200001	20	Article; Article		
